BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


'THEc^- 


Tp^eeples'  jSatienal  Jgank 

of  Monmouth,    Illinois. 


Capital  $Y  §,000.00,  Surf  his  $20,000,00. 


A  General  Banking  Business  Transacted. 


LO  R  R  I  C  E  R  S: 


WM.  S.  WEIR,  President.         GEO.  E.  ARMSBY,  2dVice-Pres. 
WM.  B.  SMITH,  Vice-Pres.      H.   B.  SMITH,  Cashier. 

E.  D.  BRADY,  Teller. 

« 

We  Don't  Look  for  Much 


From  you — Mothers,  Wives  and  Sweet- 
hearts— but  please    use    your    influence 
2  with  the  "bovs"  to 

^^^jaT.heir  Clothes  Made,  I     \ 

r^  03  !C  r?  ^ 

jj- --I  ^  r^  JJXot  glued  together.        ''Scud' cm  to  lis.'' 

I    \^/^CBHT    Sc    C3RAHAM, 
-3       -J  ARTISTIC  TAILORS. 


I 


amE 


BAPTIST  LAOieS' 


eOOK    BOOK 


Choice  and  Tested  "Recipes 


CGNTRIBUrED    BY 


The  L-adies  of  Monmouth,  III. 


(SyS^^^-^S^ 


January  ist,  i8qs. 


BAPTIST  LADIES' COOK  BOOK. 


«, 


WAIN  ST 


HOG 
LARD 


PEORIA 


mMAWI 


"^  IL 


Breakfaski 


Bacon 


Ask  yoxu" Gi-oeer for  "Fidelity  Brand."  1 


irst-class  grocers. 


*C- 


For  All  Things  Necessary 

To  good  housekeeping  in  Dry    Goods, 
Notions,  Etc., 

Call  at  Montgomery's, 


Always  on  hand,  the  very  best  assorted 
lines  of  Dress  Goods,  Hosiery  and  Un- 
derwear, Linens  and  Fancy  Articles. 


Every  Department      ifc  \ 

Kept  full  and  complete. 

N.  W.  Montgomery  &  Co. 

QUINBY  BLOCK. 


" //  behooves  the  mothers,  wives  and  sisters  of  our  land  to  coun- 
teract the  cravings  for  alchoholics,  by  supplying  plenty  of  notirishing  ^ 
enjoyable^  well-cooked food.''^ 


PREFACE. 


'"Things  for  the  cook,  sir  ; 
But  I  know  not  what," — J^omeo  and  Juliet. 


In  presenting  this  Book  of  Recipes  to  our  friends 
we  desire  to  say  that  it  has  not  been  the  design  of 
the  committee  to  give  a  complete  cook  book,  full 
in  all  departments. 

But  we  trust  it  will  prove  an  assistance  to 
the  housekeepers  who  are  engaged  in  the  stupend- 
ous task  of  cooking  for  the  nation. 

Our  sincere  thanks  are  extended  to  the  ladies  of 
Monmouth  for  the  recipes.  The  signatures  are  a 
sufficient  guarantee  for  their  excellence. 

We  especially  ask  our  friends  to  read  the  adver- 
tisements that  they  may  know  who  have  given  us 
substantial  aid.  We  ask  for  them  an  increased 
patronage,  which  their  generosity  to  all  our  public 
enterprises  justly  merits. 

COMPILERS. 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


National  Bank  ol  Monmoutl 

CAPITAL  STOCK  PAID  DP,  $100,000.00. 
SnEPLDS,  $165,000.00. 

HENRY  TUBES,  President.  W.  B.  YOUNG,    Cashier; 

JNO.  SPROUT,  Vice-Pres.  JAS.  FRENCH.  Ass.  Cash. 


Dl  RECXORS— 1 

Henry  Tubbs.         Wm    K.  Stewart,  Jas.  Firoved, 

Wm.  C.  Norcross,  Ivory  Quinby.  John  Sprout, 

O.   S.   French,         Geo.  E.   Miller.  W.Harrison  Frantz, 

Wm.  Firoved,  Hiram  Sheldon. 


Transacts   a  General    Banking   Business   in   all  its 

Departments:  also, 

Money  to  Loan  on    any   time    desired,    at    Lowest 
Rate  and  on  Easiest  Terms. 

WEIR  PLOW  CO., 


riANUFACTURERS  OF 

Plows,  Cultivators,  Harrows, 

Corn  Planters, 

Cotton  Planters,  Listers, 

Rakes,  and 
Other  Farm  flachinery. 


MONMOUTH, ILLINOIS. 


■  'J^^r.'^u'i. 


i 


3ai 


U  Hit 

1       'F 


1.  ;"^-:     «_?■ 
1  :  £-1:    ■-;  ^- 


i\ 


\ 


;  ^r- 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


THE 

Warren  Co.  Library 

CONTAINS  THE 

Best  Books  and  Periodicals 

In  all  departments  of  Literature  and  Science, 
also  on  Housekeeping,  Cookery,  Sewing, 
Fancy  Work,  Home  Decoration,  Current 
Fashions,  Health,  Home  Building,  Gardening 
and  all  practical  matters. 


The  best  books  for  the  young  are  carefully  selected. 
16,000  volumes  are  now  on  the  shelves  and  600 
more  new  books  are  bought  each  year.  New, 
fresh  magazines  are  loaned  out  as  soon  as  pub= 
lished,  such  as  Harper's,  The  Century,  The  At= 
lantic.  Cosmopolitan,  The  Bazar,  Demorest,  De= 
lineator.  North  American  Review,  Review  of 
Reviews,  Ladies'  Home  Journal,  Art  Interchange, 
Art  Amateur,  and  many  others. 


Three  Dollars  per  year  gives  the  use  at  home  of  these 
Books  and  Periodicals. 


)    All  persons  are  invited  to  read  them  at  any  time 
r  without  charge  in  the  Free  Reading  Room. 

\» — ^  ■*■ — ».^. — -  -*•  i_.^ — -  -.-   _- — ^ — »_^ — v_A — ^.^fc — y 


SOUPS 


SOUPS. 

''Expect  spoon  meat.'' — Comedy  of  Errors. 


'The  pot  must  smile  but  never  laugh.''' 


In  making  soups,  put  all  uncooked  meats  and 
bones  in  cold  water.  If  cooked  in  hot  water,  adding" 
a  little  at  a  time.  Use  a  flat-bottomed  pot  and 
keep  on  top  of  stove.  It  is  better  if  made  the  day 
before  wanted.  When  cold  remove  fat,  re-heat  and 
strain,  adding  vegetables  as  desired.  Brown  stock 
is  made  of  beef  shins  and  a  piece  of  coarse  beef. 
White  stock,  of  veal  shins  and  an  old  fowl,  if  you 
choose.  One  shin  of  veal  will  make  three  quarts 
of  good  veal  stock,  one  hind  shin  of  beef  will  make 
five  quarts — a  piece  of  each  makes  the  best  soup. 
All  kinds  of  bones  can  be  used,  and  all  liquor  in 
which  beef,  mutton  or  poultry  is  boiled.  Wash 
shins — put  on  in  cold  water,  skim  just  before  it 
boils,  simmer  slowly  four  or  fiv^  hours  or  longer. 
Boil  vegetables  separately,  and  add  to  soup  stock 
a  short  time  before  serving.  Barley,  rice,  tapioca, 
vermicelli,  maccaroni  and  all  vegetables  may  be 
used  separately  or  together.  Also,  add  the  water 
in  which  they  are  boiled.      Serve  very  hot. 

To  make  rice,  vermicelli,  maccaroni  or  barley 
soup,  boil  thoroughly  in  separate  vessel  and  add 
about  quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving.  Cabbage, 
tomatoes  or  the  soup  boquet,  or  other  vegetables 
may  be  also  added,  separately  or  together. 

Hodgens'  Ice  Cream. 


lo  SOUPS. 

BOUILLON. 

Four  pounds  juicy  beef,  one  tablespoon  salt,  two 
pounds  bone,  one  tablespoon  mixed  herbs,  four 
peppercorns,  four  clov^es,  two  quarts  water.  Cut 
meat  and  bones  in  small  pieces,  boil  down  to  three 
pints,  season  to  taste.  Add  one  onion,  one-half 
carrot  and   turnip  if  you  like  ;   strain  and  re-heat. 

ASPAR-VGUS  SOUP. 
S. 

One  bunch  of  asparagus  boiled  in  a  quart 
of  salted  water  for  twenty  minutes.  Press  the 
asparagus  through  a  colander.  Put  a  quart  of 
milk  into  a  double  boiler,  adding  a  little  parsley 
and  a  piece  of  onion.  For  thickening  use  two 
ounces  of  butter  and  three  level  tablespoonsfuls  of 
flour  rubbed  together  and  thinned  by  stirring  in  a 
little  of  the  milk.  Then  stir  into  the  boiling  milk 
and  stir  continually  until  it  thickens.  Have  the 
asparagus  and  water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  hot 
and   mix   all  together.      Season  and  serve  at  once. 

S. 
CELERY  SOUP. 
S.  C.  K. 

Take  four  or  six  stalks  of  celery,  wash  and  cut 
into  small  pieces,  using  the  leaves  as  well,  cover 
with  a  pint  or  more  of  boiling  water,  and  let  boil 
half  an  hour.  Press  through  a  colander,  do  not 
drain,  but  allow  the  Avater  to  go  through  with  the 
celery.  Have  in  a  double  boiler  one  quart  of 
boiling  milk  and  a  slice  of  onion,  to  this  add  the 
celery  and  water.  Rub  together  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Stir  into 
boiling  soup.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve. 

C.  SJiultz  for  any  tiling  in  the  Drng  Hue. 


SOUPS.  II 

CELERY  SOUP. — NO.    2. 

Take  the. white  part  of  two  Ia*rge  heads  of  celery. 
Either  grate  or  chop  fine,  set  to  boil  with  a  cup  of 
rice,  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Allow^  the  rice 
and  celery  to  slowly  stew  until  they  can  be  rubbed 
through  a  coarse  seive.  Have  hot  one  pint  of 
milk  and  an  equal  quantity  of  strong  chicken  or 
A'eal  broth.      Pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 

NOODLE    SOUP. 
Amanda  Reichard. 

One  egg,  two  tablespoonsful  of  water,  a  little 
•salt,  add  to  this  flour  to  make  it  just  as  stiff  as  pos- 
sible, mixing  all  w^ell  together.  Roll  very  thin, 
and  with  a  cloth  under  allow  it  to  remain  on  the 
board  about  two  hours  to  dry,  then  fold  in  a  roll 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  very  fine,  drop  it  slowly, 
stirring  lightly,  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  stock  of 
chicken  or  beef,  the  former  oftener  used.  Boil 
briskly  ten  minutes,  keeping  the  pot  tightly  cov- 
•ered. 

CHICKEN    SOUP, 

To  one  chicken  put  five  pints  of  cold  water  and 
a  slice  of  fat  bacon,  and  boil  it  down  to  a  quart. 
Just  before  taking  from  fire,  add  a  cup  of  cream 
and  a  little  thyme  or  parsley  to  season.  Thicken 
as  usual — one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  rubbed  into 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Barley  and  rice  are  both  nice  for  chicken  soup. 
They  should  be  boiled  slowly,  in  a  separate  vessel 
and  added  to  the  soup  about  half  an  hour  before 
removing  from  the  fire. 

/o/i/i  C.  DiDihar,  Druggist,  Moninojith,  III. 


12  SOUPS. 

NOODLES    FOR     SOUP. 

Beat  one  egg  very  light,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  dough.  Roll  out  in- 
to a  thin  sheet,  dredge  with  flour  to  keep  from 
sticking,  then  roll  up  lightly.  Begin  at  one  end 
and  shav^e  fine,  as  for  slaw.  Nice  used  in  chicken 
soup. 

CONSOMME. 

Cne  and  one-half  pounds  of  lean  beef,  same  of 
lean  veal,  cut  veal  and  one-half  the  beef  in  half  inch 
cubes,  remove  all  fat  and  put  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Let  the  water  simmer  slowly,  and  take  the 
remaining  three-fourths  pound  of  beef  and  cut  into 
cubes,  and  brown  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Add  browned  meat  to  the  other  mixture  to  give 
the  stock  color,  and  let  it  simmer  four  or  five  hours. 
Take  one-fourth  cup  each  of  carrot,  onion  and  cel- 
ery, when  the  soup  has  cooked  four  hours,  put 
them  in  a  pan  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  to  soup.  Add  also, 
one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  six  peppercorns,  three 
cloves,  three  allspice  berries,  one-half  bay  leaf,  a 
sprig  each  of  summer  savory,  marjoram,  parsley 
and  thyme,  and  cook  one  hour  longer.  Strain  and 
cool,  use  to  clear  the  white  of  one  egg  and  shell, 
to  each  quart  of  stock. 

OYSTER    SOUP. 
Mrs.    John  Gettemy. 

One  quart  oysters,  three  pints  milk  brought  to 
boil,  in  which  stir  one-half  cup  of  finely  powdered 
crackers,  butter  size  of  Qgg,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Last  add  ovsters  and  brin^r  to  boil.  Serve 
hot. 

JVew  a7id  lovely  Japanese  Napkins  at  McQaistons. 


SOUPS.  13 

FRENCH    GUMBO    SOUP. 
E.  P.  Phelps,  Atlantic,  Iowa. 

Three  slices  of  bacon,  three  onions,  one  young, 
tender  chicken,  one  quart  tender  okra  pods,  three 
green  peppers.  Fry  the  bacon  to  a  light  brown, 
cut  up  the  onions  and  put  in  the  bacon  fat  and  let 
them  fry.  Cut  the  chicken  in  small  pieces  and  fry 
with  the  bacon  fat  and  onions  to  a  light  brown. 
Add  the  peppers  cut  fine,  and  the  okra  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Pour  over  the  whole  two  quarts  of  boiling 
-water.      Cook  till  tender  and  season  to  taste. 

GREEN     CORN    SOUP. 
Amanda  Reichard. 

Half  a  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn;  cut  it  off  of  the 
cob  very  fine,  and  put  it  in  three  pints  or  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  and  one-half  teacup  of  sweet 
cream  or  new  milk.  Beat  one  egg  with  two  table- 
spoons of  sifted  flour,  mixed  with  sweet  milk  or 
water  sufficiently  thin  to  drop  through  a  perforated 
ladle.  Stir  it  lightly  into  the  soup  after  it  has 
boiled  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  boil  all  together 
about  three  minutes,  having  the  pot  tightly  cov- 
ered all  the  time. 

CREAM    OF    OYSTER    SOUP. 

Amy  R.  Rogers. 

Boil  one  quart  milk  with  one  tablespoon  of 
flour  wet  with  milk  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time  to  prevent  burning.  Add  one-half  teaspoon- 
salt  and  one-half  saltspoon  white  pepper  and  the 
liquor  from  one  can  oysters.  Cook  five  minutes 
longer,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  strain  be- 
fore  serving. 


Will    I    IMIJ      UIM  CLEAPIELO 

NO  WASHING   OR  CLEANING   REQUIRED. 


Rfll  I  INP     PIN"    CLEANEO    CURRANTS    APE    READY    TOR    INSTANT    USE. 


14  SOUPS. 

CORN    SOUP. 

Grate,  or  slit  the  grains  and  scrape  six  ears  of 
sweet  corn.  Boil  cobs  in  one  pint  or  more  of 
water  twenty  minutes.  Remove  cobs  and  put  in 
corn  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  add  one  quart 
of  rich  milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Boil  the  whole  ten  minutes  and  turn  into  a  tureen, 
in  which  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  have  been  well 
beaten.  If  a  thick  soup  is  desired,  use  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into  the  butter. 

DUCHESS  SOUP. 

Two  slices  each  of  carrot  and  onion  cooked  in- 
one  tablespoon  of  butter  five  minutes.  Add 
one  quart  of  white  stock,  either  veal  or  chicken, 
one  small  blade  of  mace.  Cook  fifteen  minutes. 
Melt  two  tablespoon  butter,  stir  in  two  table- 
spoons of  flour  until  free  from  lumps.  Add  grad- 
ually seasoned  stock,  also  one  tablespoon  of  salt, 
one  saucespoon  of  pepper,  mixed  together,  and 
one  pint  of  milk  or  thin  cream;  stir  in  four  rounding 
tablespoons  of  grated  cheese  ;  cook  two  minutes, 
serve. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

Mrs,  Geo.  G.  Wallace,  Omaha. 

A  cheap,  savory  and  warming  soup.  Take  four 
good-sized  potatoes,  pare  and  slice  thin.  Also, 
an  onion  sliced  thin  and  boiled  with  potatoes  in 
enough  water  to  keep  from  drying,  until  potatoes 
are  ready  to  fall  to  pieces.  Stir  in  a  pint  of  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  generous  lump  of  butter,. 
salt  and  pepper.      Serve  steaming  hot. 

W/ij^  don  t  y oil  buy  your  Candies  at  the  Bell  Candy 

Ki telle n.  where  they  are  all  home  made  and  fresh. 

D.    JVilson,  proprietor,  Monmouth,  III. 


SOUPS.  15 

POTATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  milk,  six  potatoes,  one  stalk  of 
celery,  slice  of  onion,  and  sprig  of  parsley.  Boil 
milk,  celery,  onion  and  parsle}^  together.  Boil 
potatoes  till  tender,  then  mash.  Add  the  boiling 
milk  gradually  to  the  potatoes,  and  press  through 
a  strainer.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  table- 
spoonful  butter.  Do  not  boil  after  the  potatoes 
and  milk  are  mixed.  To  keep  warm,  place  over 
boiling  water. 

MEATLESS  TOMATO  SOUP. 
Emma  Gregg,  Margaret  Dunbar.  Mrs.  Geo.  Babcock. 

^  One  quart  tomatoes,  one  quart  water.  Stew  till 
soft.  Add  one  teaspoonful  soda  and  allow  to  ef- 
fervesce. Heat  one  quart  new  milk,  add  pepper, 
salt,  butter  and  rolled  crackers,  strain  tomatoes 
and  add  to  milk. 

MUSHROOM   SOUP. 
Mrs.  Louie  Babcock  Tabor.  Denver. 

Milk  three  pints,  one  can  mushrooms,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Put  the  milk  on  in 
double  boiler  and  let  boil,  then  add  mushrooms, 
chopped  fine  ;  also,  the  liquor  which  is  over  them. 
Then  put  in  the  seasoning,  and  last,  the  eggs,, 
well   beaten. 

TOMATO    SOUP. 
Mrs.  Wildeniuth. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  w  ater,  add  four 
cloves,  one  onion,  and  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch, 
browned  in  butter.  Put  together  and  strain 
through  colander.  Cook  one-half  hour.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 


Hodgcns,  Fine  Candy. 


i6  SOUPS. 

PEA     SOUP. 
Mrs.  W.  B.   Jenks,  Chicago. 

Half  peck  young  green  peas.  Shell  and  boil 
peas  and  pods  separately.  Mash  peas  and  strain 
through  colander.  Strain  water  off  pods  and  mix 
with  peas.  Just  before  serving  add  one  quart  of 
rich  milk,  or  part  cream,  butter  size  of  egg  and 
salt. 

PURIE  OF  CLAMS. 

Mrs.  Overton,  Boston. 

Two  cans  or  one  quart  of  fresh  clams,  add  one 
quart  of  white  stock.  Simmer  one  hour  if  raw, 
and  fifteen  minutes  if  canned  clams  are  used.  Rub 
clams  through  a  sieve  until  only  the  hard  parts  re- 
main. Add  one-half  onion  fried  in  two  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  flour.  Pour  on  clam  liquor 
and  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  saucespoon  of 
pepper,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  bit  of  mace.  Cook 
ten  minutes  and  dilute  with  one  quart  of  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  add  to  soup  slowly 
so  as  to  avoid  coagulation,  serve. 

CRISPED    CRACKERS. 

To  serve  with  soup,  split  butter  or  use  wafer 
crackers.  Spread  lightly  with  butter,  brown 
quickly  in  hot  oven. 


TJic  finest  Cream  Tartar  and  Baking'  Soda,  at 
Dunbar  s  Drug  Store. 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK.  17 


The 


Vienna  Bread 

Has  no  equal.       Everybody  says  so.       Try  it  and  you  won't  care 

to  bother  with  these  recipes. 

Rye   and   Graham  Bread,   Rolls,  Fine    Cakes,  Doughnuts. 

Cookies,  etc.,  etc.  always  on  hand. 

IVe  use  the  Best  Materials. 

GIBSON  &  MILLER. 

MAIN      SX. 


G.    S.     BARNES, 

THF  DRUGGIST, 

■Carries  a  full  and    complete  line  of    Drugs,  Medicines  and  Drug- 
gists' Sundries,  Books,  Stationery    and    Fancy  Goods,  Spices  and 
Extracts.     Cold  Soda  Water  in  summer  and    hot  in  winter. 
All  the  Novelties  in  their  season. 

G.  S.  BARNES. 

Postofiice  Block. 


PILLSBURY  &  SAWYER, 


-DK.\LERS  IN- 


Hardware.  Cultery,  Stoves.  Tinware,  Farm  Implements.  Wagons, 

Buggies,  Harness,  Rubber  and  Leather  Belting. 

Wind  Mills,  Pumps   etc. 

North  Side  Square,  -  -  -  Monmouth,  III. 


G.  W.   eUTLE-R,^-^ 

GROCEIR. 

Has  always  selected  Fruits  and  Vegetables  in  season.         Also 
Fresh  countr\  Butter  and  Eggs 


BAPTIST  LADIES"  COOK  BOOK. 


WM.  H.  RANKIN, 

FURNITURE. 


SOUTH      MAIN      S-TREE-r. 


W.  W.  McCULLOUGH  cfe  CO., 
LjU]V[IBE1^,— 


Hard  and  Soft  Coal   and  Wood, 


MONMOUTH,    ILLINOIS. 


•  Are  you  thinking  of  buying  a  new  Stove  or  Range — one  that     m 

*  will  burn  the  least  fuel,  cause  the  least  trouble,  give  * 
the  greatest  degree  of  heat,  last  the  longest  and  ^v\>^^  ^ 

look  the  best  ?     Then  Jewel  Stoves^,^'-"'^!^^  S 
and  Ranges  will  interest  you.^.<f;         ...iJiliOTS 


fJEWEL 


URGEST  STOVE  PLANT  IN  THE  WORLD^ 

For  efficiency,  economy,  dura- 
bility, and  beauty,  they  represent  the 
zenith  of  the  stovemaker's  skill.     Ask  to  see 
them  at  the  dealers.        Look  for  the  above  trade  mark. 


^9—€"^99m 


PINKERTON  &  EVANS,  Southeast  Cor.  Square 


FISH  19 


FISH. 

"This  fish  was  well  fished  for." — IVijiter's   Tale. 


FISH  A  LA    CREME. 

Mrs.  Draper   Babcook. 

One  pound  of  salmon,  cod  or  haddock,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  crackers,  rolled  ; 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper.  Spread 
the  boiled  fish  on  a  platter,  put  the  butter  in  a  pan 
on  the  stove  with  the  salt  and  pepper.  .  When  it 
boils  up  add  the  flour,  have  the  milk  hot  and  put 
in  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  turn  this  over  the 
boiled  fish.  Moisten  the  crackers  in  butter  and 
put  over  the  top,  put  in  the  oven  over  a  tin  dish  of 
water,  brown,  then  take  one  cup  of  hot  mashed  po- 
tatoes and  put  through  the  sieve  around  the  edge. 
Serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED    FISH. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Diffenbaugh. 

Boil  three  pounds  of  fish  until  tender,  take  out 
the  bone.  Dressing — one  quart  milk,  salt,  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  butter  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn  starch.  Boil  to  a  thick  dressing;  line  the 
platter  with  a  layer  of  dressing,  then  of  fish,  etc., 
etc.,  the  last  being  the  dressing  ;  sprinkle  over  top 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  one-half  hour  and 
serve  on  the  same  platter. 


C.  Shiiltz  Drug  and  Fine  Perfumery 


20  FISH. 

CREAMED  SALMON. 

-    Mrs.  E.  J.  Pillsbury. 

Drain  all  the  liquid  from  a  can  of  salmon  and 
chop  the  salmon  fine  ;  grease  the  bottom  of  a  small 
baking  dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  fish  and  so  on  until  you  have  used 
a  pint  of  crumbs  and  the  fish.  Dressing — Boil  a 
pint  of  milk,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  pour  this  over  the  salmon 
and  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until  brown.  Have 
the  top  layer  bread  crumbs. 

BAKED    WHITEFISH. 

Cleanse  carefully.  Wipe-  dry,  rub  with  salt  and 
dredge  with  flour,  fill  with  dressing,  and  tie  up  or 
sew.  Place  in  hot  pan  with  a  few  slices  of  salt 
pork  across  it,  or  use  butter.  Pour  in  enough  hot 
water  to  prevent  burning.  A  four  or  five  pound 
fish  will  require  from  one  to  one  and  a  half  hours. 
If  a  cloth  is  put  in  the  pan  first,  jthe  fish  can  be  lifted 
up  without  breaking.  Dressing: — Use  bits  of 
stale  bread  soaked  in  cold  water,  press  dry,  add 
one  onion  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Add  two  or  three  eggs  if  desired. 

CODFISH     BALLS. 

S.    B. 

Pick  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  codfish  ver\- 
fine.  Wash  in  several  waters  or  soak  fifteen  min- 
utes. Boil  with  a  dozen  medium  sized  potatoes — 
putting  the  codfish  on  top.  When  tender  drain 
and  make  very  fine,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  to  taste.  Make  into 
cakes,  dip  in  beaten  eggs.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

T/ic  correct  thing  in  Invitation  and  Mcnn  Cards, 
alzvays  at  McQuiston  s. 


%  FISH.  21 

CREAM  FISH. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

Two  pounds  of  white  fish  or  red  snapper.  Boil 
it  after  the  fish  has  been  skinned  and  boned,  pick 
it  into  fine  pieces  ;  one-half  cup  butter  and  two- 
thirds  pint  or  more  of  cream.  Put  the  cream  on 
the  stove  in  a  double  boiler.  Put  two  tablespoon- 
of  flour  into  the  butter,  add  pepper  and  salt  [to 
taste,  and  put  into  the  boiling  cream.  Beat  until 
done.  Pour  this  over  the  fish.  Mix  thoroughly 
with  the  grated  rind  and  about  half  of  the  juice  of 
a  lemon.  Put  into  the  baking  dish  and  cover  with 
cracker  crumbs.  Dampen  by' pouring  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter.  Then  bake  and  serve 
hot.      Will  serve  ten  persons. 

CODFISH    STEW. 

K.  C. 

Shred  the  fish  and  let  it  soak  in  cold  water  to 
freshen.  When  ready  to  cook  pour  on  boiling 
water  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  drain 
and  pour  on  fresh  boiling  milk.  Allow  one  quart 
of  milk  to  one  cup  of  fish.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  If 
desired  add  one  or  two  eggs,  well  beaten  or  broken 
in  whole  and  lightly  stirred  in,  or  the  eggs  may 
be  previously  boiled.  K.  C. 

BAKED    CODFISH. 

Pick  up  one  teacup  of  codfish,  Let  it  cook  in 
lukewarm  water  while  you  mix  two  cups  of  cold 
mashed  potatoes  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two 
^&gs,  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt 
if  necessary.  Add  codfish.  Mix  all  together. 
Pour  in  pudding  dish  ^nd  bake  twenty-five  or 
thirty  minutes. 

Hodgens'  Confectionery. 


22  .  FISH.  , 

BOILED  SALMON  OR  HALIBUT. 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Seaman, 

Three  or  four  pounds  of  f^.sh.  Dip  in  boiling" 
water  and  scrape  clean.  Rub  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Put  in  pan  and  pour  milk  over  it  till  half  an 
inch  deep.  Bake  about  an  hour,  basting  with  the 
milk.  The  milk  keeps  the  fish  moist  and  it  browns 
well  ;  let  it  cook  away  toward  the  last.  Serve 
with  any  sauce  preferred.  Is  nice  with  Holland- 
aise  sauce  made  as  follows  :  One-half  cup  butter, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  one 
saltspoon  salt,  few  grains  cayenne  pepper,  one- 
half  cup  boiling  water.  Rub  butter  to  ar  cream, 
add  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  well  ;  then  add 
lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Just  before  serving- 
add  boiling  w^ater,  stir  rapidly  till  it  thickens  like 
custard.      Pour  sauce  around  the  fish  on  platter. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKAREL. 
S.  M.  B. 

Let  the  mackarel  stand  over  night  in  fin  earthen 
dish  in  cold  water.  When  ready  to  broil,  drain. 
Pour  on  boiling  water  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes, 
drain  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Butter  the  bars  of  a 
gridiron.  Lay  fish  on  broiler,  inside  down.  Turn 
for  a  short  time.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with 
plenty  of  butter. 

SAUCE  FOR  BROILED  FISH. 

Use  in  the  proportion  of  one  large  spoonful  of 
butter  to  one  gill  of  cream.  Turn  over  fish  hot, 
just  before  serving. 

IV/ij'  doiit  you  buy  yaiir  Candies  at  the  Bell  Caudy 

Kite  hen  zvhere  they  are  all  home  made  and  fresJi. 

D.    Wilson,  proprietor,  Monmouth,  III. 


FISH. 


:i3 


TURBOT. 
Mrs.    Melville  Brewer. 

Cook  white  fish  until  tender.  Remove  bones, 
mince  fine  and  add  a  little  chopped  celery,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  For  the  dressing,  heat  one 
pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  flour.  When  cool 
add  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  one-quarter  pound 
butter.  Put  in  the  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish  then 
a  layer  of  sauce  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover  the 
(top  with   cracker  crumbs   and  bake  one  half  hour. 


TJic  jiihcst  and  best  Spices  at  Dunbar  s  Drug  Store 


24 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


How  to  avoid  Corns  and  Bunions. 
How  to  make  the  Foot  Appear  Neat. 


Where  to  get  Stylish, 
Elegantly  Made  and  Durable 


Go  to 


J-  D.  Hickman  &  Brc. 

Sign — Big  Shoe.  Monmouth,  111 


109 
South  Main  Street. 


^he  pl^enmouth  ^etterf^ 


I-."!. 


Butter  Jars  o^  ^^^  sizes  are  made,  and  a  full  line  of   Cooking  Ware  such. 

as  Pudding  Pans,  Stew  Pans,  Meat  Roasters,  Bean  Pots,  Pie  Pans, 

Coffee  and  Tea  Pots,  Etc.,  Etc. 


CROQUETTS. 


CROQUETTS. 


"Pretty  little  tiny  kickshaws  '' — A'/;/;'  Henry  IV. 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTE. 

Jessie  Weir. 

One  pint  chopped  chicken,  fine,  one-half  cup  of 
cream,  one-half  cup  stock,  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  four  eggs,  yellow  only. 
Cream  the  butter  and  flour,  and  add  to  the  cream 
and  stock  when  boiling,  then  the  eggs,  well  beat- 
en and  lemon  juice.  Work  five  minutes.  Pour 
over  the  chicken.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  mix 
thoroughly.  When  cold  shape  into  small  balls, 
dip  into  ^%%,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
lard. 

THICK    CREAM    SAUCE. 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Seaman.  Denver. 

For  croquettes  and  patties.  One  pint  hot  cream, 
two  even  tablespoon  butter,  four  heaping  table- 
spoon flour,  or  two  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  white 
pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt.  A  few 
grains  of  cayenne  pepper  if  desired.  Scald 
the  cream,  melt  the  butter  in  granite  sauce 
pan.  When  bubbling,  add  the  dry  flour,  or  corn 
starch,  stir  till  well  mixed.  Add  one-third  cream 
and  stir  as  it  boils  and  thickens.  Add  more  cream 
and  boil  again,  etc.  The  sauce  should  be  very 
thick  and  smooth.  Add  the  seasoning  and  mix  it 
while  hot  with  the  meat  or  fish. 

C.  Shultz  for  anything  in  the  Drug  line. 


26  CROQUETTS. 


FILLING  FOR  PATTIES. 
Mrs.  Ella  Hoyt. 

Make  a  sauce,  using  one  cup  of  oyster  liquor, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  anchory  essence  or  paste. 
Use  one  pint  oysters,  one-fourth  cup  cold  water. 
Wash  oysters  and  remove  muscles.  Parboil  and 
strain  and  add  to  sauce.  Season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Ella  Hoyt. 

PATTY  SHELLS. 
K. 

One    cup  butter,    one    tablespoon   white  sugar, 

white  of  one  egg,    three   tablespoon  water,    flour 

enough  to  roll  out.     This  will  make  eighteen  shells; 

bake  in  gem  tins. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 
Mrs.  Eugene  A.  Lord. 

One  pint  milk,  one  tablespoon  flour,  two  ta- 
blespoon butter.  Salt  and  pepper.  Put  butter 
in  a  sauce  pan,  and  when  hot,  but  not  brown,  add 
the  flour.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  gradually  add 
the  milk.      Let   it   boil   up  once.      Season  to  taste. 

SALMON    CROQUETTES. 
Mrs.  E.  A.  Lord. 

One  pound  chopped  salmon,  one  cup  cream,  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
three  eggs,  one  pint  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Mix  flour  and  butter  together.  Let  cream 
come  to  the  boil,  and  stir  in  the  flour,  butter,  sal- 
mon and  seasoning.  Boil  for  one  minute.  Stir 
into  it  one  well-beaten  egg  and  remove  from  the 
fire.  When  cold,  shape  and  proceed  as  for  other 
croquettes. 

A II  the  new  designs  in  A  rtistic.    Dining  Room  and 
other  Wall  Papers  at  McQuistons. 


CROQUETTS.  27 


CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Lord. 

One  solid  pint  of  finely  chopped  chicken,  one 
tablespoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one 
cup  of  cream  or  chicken  stock,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice,  one 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one  pint  crumbs,  three 
tablespoon  butter.  Put  the  cream  or  stock  on 
to  boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  flour  and  butter 
together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  cream,  then  add 
the  chicken  and  seasoning.  'Boil  for  two  minutes 
and  add  two  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Take  from 
the  fire  immediately  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
cold,  shape,  brush  with  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  and  fry. 

Veal,  mutton,  beef  and  turkey  can  be  prepared 
in  the  same  manner  as  chicken.  The  remains  of 
.a  veal  roast,  if  tender,  is  especially  good. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Brokaw. 

Mix  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  with  one  egg, 
■well  beaten  ;  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Add  flour  enough  to 
make  quite  stiff  ;  make  in  small  rolls  ;  then  roll 
them  in  cracker  crumbs,  made  fine,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  the  same  as  doughnuts. 

SALMON    CROQUETTES. 
Mrs.  F.  C.  Tapping. 

One  can  of  salmon,  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs, 
one-third  of  a  lemon,  juice  and  rind.  Dressing — 
Juice  of  the  salmon,  one-half  cup  milk,  salt,  pepper 
and  small  piece  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour. 
Boil  till  thick,  then  mix  with  the  salmon.  Roll 
into  small,  oblong  rolls.  Roll  in  a  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard. 

Hod  gens  Brick  Cream. 


28  CROQUETTS 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  John  J.  Glenn. 

Two  pounds  veal,  one  cup  milk,  lump  of  butter 
size  of  walnut,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
one  cup  rolled  crackers.  Boil  the  veal  till  tender; 
when  cold  chop  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  place  on  the  fire 
to  melt,  add  the  milk,  stir  till  it  thickens,  then 
pour  over  the  meat  and  mix.  When  cold  make 
into  balls,  dip  in  eggs,  roll  in  the  crackers,  drop  in 
hot  lard,  cook  till  brown.      Serve  hot. 

CHICKEN    CROQUETTES. 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Seaman,  Denver,  Col. 

Half  a  pound  of  chicken  chopped  fine,  and  sea- 
soned with  salt,  pepper,  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice 
and  one-half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Make 
one  pint  of  thick  cream  sauce.  When  thick  add 
one  beaten  egg,  and  mix  sauce  with  the  chicken. 
Make  it  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  W^hen  cool 
shape  into  rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again  and  fry  one 
minute  in  smoking  hot  fat.  Mushrooms,  boiled 
rice,  sweetbreads,  or  veal,  may  be  mixed  with 
chicken.  Cold  roast  chicken,  chopped  fine,  may 
be  mixed  with  the  stuffing,  moistened  with  the 
gravy,  and  shaped  into  croquettes. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 
Anna  Owens. 

Two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  cream,  boiling  hot,  one 
can  salmon.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Pour  off  the 
oil  and  pick  to  pieces.  Add  one  cup  rolled  crack- 
ers, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  the  boiling 
cream  and  salmon  juice  over.  Prepare  as  other 
croquettes. 


T/ie  fi7iest  inatertah  for  Cake  a?id  Pastry  at  Dan- 
bar  s  Drug  Store. 


BAPTIST  L\DIE3  COOK  BOOK. 


JOHN  JACOB, 


Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in 


Fresh  and  Salt  fleats,  %fc^' 


A-02.    RIRTH    AVENU 


OAKrOl^D  &  rAHNE5T0CK, 

(INCORPORATED.) 

Wholesale  Grocers, 
Tea  Importers  and  Coffee  Roasters. 

302  and  304  S.  Washington  and  117. 119.  121  and  123  Liberty  Sts, 
PEORIA,    ILLINOIS. 


ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR 

Anderson's  Jams  and  nince=neat. 

Welsh's  Maple  Syrup. 

♦'Blue  Ribbon"  Canned  Goods  and  Olives. 

Genesee  Table  Salt. 

Penn  Yan  '^ist  Prize"  Buckwheat  Flour. 

Epicure  N.  Y.  Cheese. 


olarke:  Sc  Irvine:, 

The  Exclusive  Grocery  Merchants, 

Library  Block.  West  Side  of  the  Square. 

"Study  carefully  and  thoug-htf uUy  the  wants  of  the  people 
of  Monmouth  and  vicinity,  and  will  be  pleased  to  serve  all 
Ihat  will  favor  them  with  their  presence.  All  g-oods  most 
thoroughly  g^uaranteed. 


30  OYSTERS. 


OYSTERS. 

■'This  treasure  of  an  oyster.  ' — Antony  and  Cleopati-a. 


DEVILED  OYSTERS. 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Seaman. 

Twenty-five    nice,    fat    oysters,     one     half-pint 
cream,     one    tablespoon     butter,    two    tablespoon- 
flour,   one   tablespoon    chopped    parsley,   yolks  of 
two   eggs.      Salt  and    pepper  to  taste.      Drain  the 
oysters,  chop  them  middling  fine,  and  drain  again. 
Put  the  milk  on  to  boil.      Rub  the  butter  and  flour- 
together  and  stir  into  milk  when  boiling.      As  soon. 
as    it   thickens,  take    it  from    the  fire   and  add  the 
other  ingredients.      Beat  yolks  before  adding  them. 
Have  the  deep  shells  of  the  oysters  washed  clean, 
fill  them  with  this  mixture,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs 
on  top.      Put  shells  in   dripping  pan  and  brown  in' 
quick   oven    for   five    minutes.      Serve  in  shells   or 
bake  dishes.      Avoid  long  cooking,  it  makes  them- 
dry. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.   Ella  Porter,  Hanna. 

One  pint  cream,  one  heaping  tablespoon  but- 
ter, two  heaping  teaspoon  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper,  cayenne 
and  celery  salt.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  then 
the  boiling  milk,  or  cream,  and  seasoning.  To- 
this  add  one  quart  oysters,  parboiled,  Turn  into* 
a  baking  dish,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven — or  serve  on  toast. 

C.  SJuiltz  Drug  and  Fine  Perfumery 


OYSTERS.  31 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 
Mrs   Dr.  Kimmel. 

Make  puff  paste  in  this  way  :  To  every  pound 
of  flour  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  ;  use  ice  cold  water  ;  chop  half  the 
butter  into  the  flour,  then  stir  in  the  egg  ;  work  all 
into  a  dough  ;  roll  out  thin  ;  spread  on  some  of  the 
butter,  fold  closely  (butter  side  in)  and  roll  again  ; 
do  this  until  the  butter  is  all  used  up.  Keep  the 
paste  in  a  cool  place  while  you  prepare  the  oys- 
ters. Set  the  oysters  on  the  stove  with  liquid 
enough  to  cover  them.  As  soon  as  they  come  to 
a  boil  skim  them,  stir  in  a  little  butter  and  pepper, 
also,  if  desired,  a  little  cream.  Line  your  small 
tins  with  the  paste  ;  put  three  or  four  oysters  in 
each,  add  a  little  of  the  liquor,  then  cover  with 
paste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 
While  hot  v.ash  over  the  top  with  a  beaten  egg. 

OYSTER  IN  VINEGAR. 
K. 

Heat  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  drop  into  hot  vinegar,  wiih  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

LITTLE  PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Stevenson.    Omaha. 

Wash  large  oysters  and  dry  thoroughly.  Have 
slices  of  bacon  cut  very  thin.  Salt  and  pepper 
oysters.  Pin  on  each,  with  wooden  toothpick  a 
slice  of  bacon,  and  broil  or  bake  until  the  bacon  is 
crisp.      Serve  hot,  without  removing  the  toothpick. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 
Mrs.  Babcock,  Danver. 

To  one  quart  of  oysters  take  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  butter  and  the  same  of  flour,    rub  the  flour  and 

Hodgcns  Lemon  Ice. 


32  OYSTERS. 

butter  to  cream,  and  stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling 
milk.  Stir  the  oysters  ifi  the  sauce  while  boiling 
hot.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  Cover  with 
rolled  crackers,  place  in   oven  and  bake. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

M. 

Two  cans  of  oysters,  or  three  pints  of  solid  oys- 
ters, one  quart  of  cream,  one  dozen  rolled  crack- 
ers. Pepper  and  salt.  Stir  all  together,  and  pour 
into  a  dish  lined  with  thick  puff  paste.  Cover 
with  another  paste  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.      This  is  a  delicious  mode  of  cooking  oysters. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Bell. 

Strain  the  oysters  and  remove  all  bits  of  shell. 
Cut  the  oysters  slightly.  For  a  pint  of  oysters  use 
a  pint  of  flour,  sifted  and  mixed  with  a  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Put  the  flour  in  a  mixing  bowl 
with  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  a  teaspoon  of  salad  oil 
(butter  if  you  prefer)  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Use 
enough  of  the  oyster  liquor  to  make  a  batter  thick 
enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon.  Beat  the  white 
of  the  egg  t£>  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  the  oysters  and 
the  white  of  egg  lightly  with  the  batter  and  as 
soon  as  mixed  drop  by  the  large  spoonful  into  a 
kettle  of  hot  lard  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Lay  a 
brown  paper  on  a  dripping  pan  and  take  fritters  out 
on  this  to  drain.  Set  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot  while 
frying  the  rest. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Georgie  Dennis. 

Roll  and  sift  crackers,  and  beat  egg  very  light. 
Dip  oysters  in  egg  then  in  sifted  cracker,  again  in 
the  egg  and  last  in  the  cracker.  Fry  in  hot  lard 
till  brown.      Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Hodgcns'  Ice  Cream. 


OYSTERS.  33 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.  Edgar  MacDill. 

Drain  and  remove  all  bits  of  shell.  Sprinkle 
-with  salt  and  pepper.  Set  in  a  cool  place  for  ten 
minutes.  Then  pour  oysters  into  a  pan  of  crack- 
ers, rolled  fine.  Add  liquor.  Mix  well  and  let 
stand  five  minutes.  Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Meld  into  small  cakes  with  two  or  three  oysters  in 
each  cake.  Roll  in  dry  cracker  and  fry  in  butter. 
Serve  hot.  Use  just  enough  cracker  to  hold  the 
oysters  together.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  liquor 
to  moisten  cracker,  use  milk. 

FILLING  FOR  PATTIES. 
C.  B. 
Breasts  of  two  chickens,  one  can  mushrooms, 
two  cups  cream,  two  teaspoon  butter,  three  tea- 
spoon flour,  one  of  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little 
mustard.  Boil  chicken  and  mushrooms  separately, 
•chop  in  small-  pieces.  Rub  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether, stir  into  cream  and  boil  until  it  thickens, 
then  pour  this  over  chicken  and  mushrooms  and 
fill   shells. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 
Mrs.  John   Babcock. 

One  pint  of  small  oysters,  one-half  pint  of 
cream,  a  large  teaspoon  of  flour,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Let  the  cream  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  the 
flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boil- 
ing cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  while 
the  cream  is  cooking.  Let  the  oysters  come  to  a 
boil  in  their  own  liquor.  Skim  carefully  and  drain 
off  all  the  liquor.  Add  oysters  to  cream  and  boil 
up  once.  Pill  the  patty  shells  and  serve.  The 
quantities  given  are  enough  for  eighteen  shells. 

Nail,  Hand,    TcctJi   and  Hair  BrusJiss  at  Dunbar  s 

Drug  Store. 


34  OYSTERS. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 
Mrs.  J.  B.  McMichael. 

Roll  crackers,  not  too   fine.      Drain  liquor  from. 
one  quart  of    oysters.      Butter  a  deep  dish  or  pan. 
Cover  the  bottom  with  crackers,  put  in  a  la}'er  ol 
oysters,  pepper  and  salt  and  bits  of   butter.      An- 
other layer  of  crackers,  then  oysters,  until  the  dish 
is  filled,  having  crackers  cover  top.      Pour  over  the 
liquor    from  oysters    and    a  pint    of   milk.       Bake- 
three-quarters   of   an   hour   in   Monmouth  Potter>^^ 
Pudding  Pan. 


C.  Shu  If::'  for  anything  in  the  Drug  line. 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK.  35 

N.  A.  SCOTT", 

PIONEER  GROCERY, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Grocer, 

Southeast  Corner  Square  and  Market  Place, 
MONMOUTH.  ILLINOIS. 

J.  C.  Hanna.  Prest.    J.  E.  Jackson.  V.-Prest.    P.  L.  Sherrick.  Sec'y  and 
Treas.    W.  P.  Cleaver,  Gen'l  Manager. 

SHERRICK-CLEAVER  CO. 

Manufacturers  of 

Shirts,  Pants,  Overalls,  Etc.,  Etc. 

SPECIALTIES==Cassimere  Pants 

and  Duck  Coats.  MONMOUTH,  ILLINOIS. 

'*A  Contented  Hind  is  a  Continual  Feast." 

The  surest  way  to  secure  composure  and  serenity  is  by  being^ 
well  dressed  ;  hence  consult 

WARREN  BUNKERR, 

THE  DISTINGUISHED  GENTLEMAN 

niLLINER  AND  DRESSMAKER, 

Who  has  just  returned  from   Paris,   and  furnishes    all    the 
correct  fashions  and  latest  novelties. 


OSOAR    ZIMMEIRMAN 


GENERAL  BARBER  SUPPLIES 

SOePropvietor  .,  ReJ_resh,„g  ,  p|5J||^LED  HAZEL  BAY, 
Pinaud  Toilet  Waters,  Perfumes,  Etc.,  Etc. 

Finest  Grinding-  and  Decorating  Establishment  west  of 
Chicag-o.  Get  your  carving-,  cake  and  bread  knives,  razors 
and  shears  sharpened. 


36  MEATS. 


MEATS. 

''Dainty  bits  make — to  the  ribs.'' 


HOW  TO  ROAST    MEAT. 

Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing,  of  the  school  of  domestic 
economy  at   the  Iowa  Agricultural  College,  says  : 

In  roasting  meats  of  all  kinds  the  method  adopted 
should  be  the  one  that  in  the  most  perfect  manner 
preserves  the  juices  inside  the  meat.  To  roast 
beef  in  the  best  possible  manner,  place  the  clean 
cut  side  of  the  meat  upon  a  smoking  hot  pan, 
which  must  be  over  a  quick  fire.  Press  it  close  to 
the  pan  until  seared  and  slightly  browned.  Re- 
verse and  let  the  opposite  side  become  similarly 
seared  and  browned.  Then  put  it  at  once  in  the 
oven,  the  heat  of  which  should  be  firm  and  steady, 
but  not  too  intense,  and  leave  it  undisturbed  until 
cooked.  The  time  that  should  be  allowed  for 
cooking  beef  in  this  manner  is  twenty  minutes  to 
the  pound,  if  it  is  to  be  rare,  less  half  an  hour  de- 
ducted from  the  aggregate  time  on  account  of 
searing.  In  other  words,  a  five-pound  roast  of 
beef  will  require  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  a  six- 
pound  roast  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  so  on. 

If  the  oven  is  not  too  hot  the  beef  requires  no 
basting,  and  is  better  without  it.  When  the  oven 
is  at  the  proper  temperature,  and  the  cooking  is 
going  on  all  right,  the  meat  will  keep  up  a  gentle 
sputtering  in  the  pan.  If,  upon  opening  the  oven 
door,  this  sputtering  is  not  perceptible,  more  heat 


Hodgcns    Pine  Apple  lee. 


MEATS.  37 

is  required.  But,  if  in  addition  to  the  sputtering, 
anv  smoke  isdiscernable  in  the  oven,  the  heat  is  too 
intense,  and  should  be  lessened.  Unless  the  heat 
of  the  oven  is  too  great,  the  drippings  in  the  pan 
will  burn  and  smoke,  and  when  the  meat  is  cooked 
there  will  be  a  thin  coating  of  brown  jelly  in  the 
pan  where  the  meat  rested,  which,  by  the  addition 
of  stock  or  water,  will  make  a  delicious  gravy. 

A  roast   of  beef  should  never  be  washed,  and  if 
it    has    been    accidentally    wet    or     moistened,     it 
should  be  carefully  wiped  dry  before  it  is  seared  or 
put  to   cook.      Searing   almost    instantly  coats  the 
cut  side  of  apiece  of  meat,  and  prevents  the  escape 
of  juices  in  the  after-process  of  roasting,  while  a 
firm,  steady  heat  gently  but  thoroughly  cooks  it, 
and    thus    both    juices    and   flavor   are   preserved. 
Basting  is  a  troublesome,    as  well  as  a  damaging, 
process.      And  as  salt   and  water  have  a  tendency 
to   toughen   and   extract   the  juices  of   meat,  they 
should  not  be  used  on  it  while  roasting,  if  it  is  de- 
sired to  have  the  meat  sweet,  juicy  and  tenden 

ROAST     BEEF. 
M. 

The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin  and 
rib  pieces.  When  roasting  in  an  oven  dash  a  cup 
of  hot  water  over  the  meat;  this  checks  the  escape 
of  the  juices.  Baste  frequently  with  salt,  and 
water  and  the  drippings.  If  your  fire  is  hot,  allow 
twelve  minutes  to  the  pound,  if  you  like  the  beef 
rare  ;  more  if  you  prefer  it  well  done.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  browned  flour. 


THE  MOST  DELICATE  •^•^^vors  are  obtained  from 


CHICAGO  FLAVORING  EXTRACTS. 


38  MEATS. 

TO  ROAST  BEEF. 
M. 

Put  into  pan    without    water,  unless    in   gasoline 

stove  oven,  when  put    in    sufficient   water   to    keep 

from    burning.       Do    not    season.      Allow    twelve 

minutes  to  a  pound  for  a  rare  roast,  longer  if  it  is 

desired  better  done.      Make   gravy  in    usual    way. 

The  best  way  ever  roasted. 

GRAVY  FOR  TURKEY. 
B.  M. 

An  excellent  way  to  roast  turkey.  Wash  thor- 
oughly and  wipe  dry.  Do  not  salt.  Fill  with 
dressing  Put  without  water  in  double  roaster. 
Do  not  baste.  Keep  fire  enough  to  hear  a  gentle 
sizzle.  Bake  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound.  One 
and  one-half  hours  before  it  is  done  pour  over  a 
gravy  made  of  three  large  cups  boiling  water,  three 
tablespoons  flour,  first  mixed  with  small  quantity 
of  water  and  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  salt  to 
taste.  This  gives  sufficient  moisture  to  the  turkey 
and  makes  delicious  gravy,  rich  and  brown, 

A  good  dressing  may  be  made  of  bread  crumbs, 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  nutmeg,  sage,  and  onions 
if  desired,  well  buttered  slices  of  bread.  Make 
about  right  proportion. 

Chicken  is  excellent  baked  in  this  way.  Allow- 
ing at  least  twenty  minutes  to  each  pound. 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 
B. 
Take  four  pounds  ribbed  beef,  ribs  taken  out  and 
rolled.  Put  some  beef  drippings  in  porcelain-lined 
kettle,  rub  beef  with  salt  and  put  it  into  the  hot  drip- 
pings. Let  it  cook  one  hour,  turning  it  frequenth', 
then  add  water  and    cook   one   hour   longer.      Re- 

TJie  finest  Soaps  and  Perfumes  at  John  C.  Dunbar  s 

Drug  Store. 


MEATS.  39 

move  to  platter  and   thicken  the  gravy   with  flour 
.and  butter  made  into  a  paste. 

GOOD    STEAK. 
Mrs.  Dr.   W.   P.  Smith. 

In  the  first  place  buy  good  steak — porterhouse — 
have  it  cut  tzvo  inches  thick  ;     remove  all  the  bone 
.and  most  of  the   fat,    put   the  steak  upon  a  heavy 
hard  wood  block  and  with  an    iron  beater — 2  inch 
face   and    36    sharp    teeth,   (mine    weighs  2  ft)s.) — 
bring   the   meat    to  one- half  an  inch   in   thickness. 
JFor   a  gridiron  use   a  large  double  bread   toaster  ; 
■open  this  and  place  the  steak  upon   one  side,  ad- 
justed to  the  thickness  you  desire  it  when  broiled; 
close  down  the   other  half  of  toaster,  pushing  the 
slide  clear  up,  to  fasten  the  meat  at  the  proposed 
thickness,  place  this  over  a  bed  of   very  hot  coals 
for  about   ten   seconds — this  seals  the  surface  and 
prevents  thejuicees  running — turn  it  and  cook  the 
•  other  side    done,    slightly  browning  it  ;    then  turn 
the  first  side  and  cook  that  the  same — steak  should 
be  broiled  quick,  and  is  best  if  not  overdone,    but 
so  that  when  cut 'tis  very  juicy  and  a  little  red  in 
centre — unclose   the  handles   of   your   broiler  and 
-with  forks   remove   your   steak    to  a   hot    platter, 
season    nicely    with    salt   and    pepper,    and    place 
about  the  surface  small  pieces  of  butter,  put  it  in 
the  oven   long   enough  to   melt  .this,  then   to   the 
table,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  carver. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

Mrs.  B. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  from  the  fore  quarter, 
weighing  ten  pounds — those  who  like  fat  should 
select  a  fatty  piece,  those  who  prefer  lean  may 
take  the   shoulder   clod   or   the    upper  part  of  the 

C.  SJinltz  for  anytJiing  in  the  Drng  line. 


40  MEATS. 

fore  leg — take  one  pint  of  salt,  one  teacup  of  mo- 
lasses or  brown  sugar,  and  tablespoon  of  ground 
cloves,  allspice  and  pepper,  and  two  tablespoons  of 
pulverized  saltpetre;  place  the  beef  in  a  deep  pan, 
rub  with  this  mixture,  turn  and  rub  each  side 
twice  a  day  for  a  week,  then  wash  off  the  spices, 
put  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and,  as  often  as  it 
boils  hard,  turn  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water;  it 
must  must  simmer  for  five  hours  on  the  back  part 
of  the  stove;  press  under  a  heavy  weight  till  it  is 
cold  and  you  will  never  desire  to  try  corned  beef 
of  the  butcher  again,  your  pickle  will  do  for  another 
ten  pounds  of  beef,  first  rubbing  into  it  a  handful 
of  salt,  it  can  be  renewed  and  a  piece  kept  in 
preparation  every  day. 

^  TO  BROIL  A  STEAK    CHICKENS,    GAME  OR  FISH 
IN  THE  OVEN. 

K.  C.  S. 

Place  the  meats  in  a  double  wire  broiler,  put  the 
broiler  over  the  baking  pan  containing  an  inch  of 
cold  water,  place  the  pan  on  the  top  shelf  of  the 
oven,  which  should  be  very  hot — for  sirloin  steak, 
from  eight  to  ten  minutes,  other  articles  according 
to  size  and  heat  of  the  oven. 

SPICED  ROAST. 
Mrs.  J.  A.  Hanna. 

For  this  either  beef  or  mutton  can  be  used. 
Prepare  for  roasting  by  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper,  then  add  one  half-dozen  whole  cloves,  one 
dozen  whole  allspice,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  one- 
third  pint  vinegar  and  two-thirds  water;  roast 
very  slowly  until  about  a  half  hour  before  serving, 

Hodgens'   Tuty  Fruty  Cream, 


MEATS.  41 

when    let   it   brown   in   a   very  hot   oven.       Baste 
often  and  add  water  as  needed. 

SPRING  CHICKEN. 
Take  a  nice  spring  chicken,  or  a  young  one. 
Clean  and  wash  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  kettle  with 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  tender,  but  not  until  it  falls  to 
pieces.  Take  out  of  the  water.  Sav^e  the  water 
for  the  gravy.  Split  open  the  chicken  on  the  back. 
Put  in  a  dripping  pan,  add  salt  and  pepper  and 
little  pieces  of  butter.  Then  dredge  it  with  flour, 
allowing  some  of  the  flour  to  fall  into  pan.  Put 
into  a  hot  oven  and  brown.  Watch  it,  and  after 
it  has  been  in  ten  minutes— -for  if  the  chicken  is 
young  it  takes  only  a  few  minutes — thirty  at  the 
most.  Take  out  of  pan  and  put  on  a  platter» 
Take  the  stock,  thicken  and  put  it  into  the  drip- 
ping pan  where  the  chicken  has  just  been  taken 
out,  and  cook  it  until  smooth,  stirring  constantly. 
It  ought  to  be  brown  if  some  of  the  flour  and  but- 
ter that  the  chicken  was  baked  in  was  left.  Lastly^ 
pour  over  the  chicken  and  serve  hot.  If  one  has 
an  old  fowl  it  must  be  boiled  or  hour  or  two  be- 
fore it  will  be  tender  enough  to  split  opn. 

JELLIED    CHICKEN. 

Mary  Patterson. 

Boil  a  fowl  until  it  will  slip  easily  from  the 
bones,  let  the  water  be  reduced  to  about  one  pint 
in  boiling.  Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  good 
sized  pieces,  taking  out  all  gristle,  fat  and  bones. 
Place  in  a  wet  mold,  skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor. 
A  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste,  and 
one-half  ounce  of  gelatine.  When  this  dissolves 
pour  it  hot  over  the  chicken.  The  liquor  must  be 
seasoned   pretty  high,  for  the  chicken  absorbs. 

Hodgens'  Salted  Almonds. 


42  MEATS. 

TO  COOK  VEAL  LIVER. 

Mrs.  S. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  it,  put  a  tablespoon  of 
lard  and  butter  in  frying  pan,  lay  the  liver  in,  chop 
fine  two  small  onions,  cover  the  liver  with  them, 
sprinkle  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely, 
and  let  it  fry  for  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  and  salt 
and  pepper  the  on  other  side.  With  ease  it  can  be 
sent  to  the  table  with  the  dressing  on  each  slice, 
which  adds  very  much  to  the   relish. 

FOR  CORNING  BEEF  OR    TONGUES. 
Mrs.  Frank  Hubbard. 

To  one  gallon  of  water  take  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  salt,  one  half-pound  of  sugar,  one-half 
ounce  of  saltpetre.  Boil  these  together  and  skim 
when  cold,  pour  it  over  your  meat  or  tongues  and 
let  it  stand  two  weeks  before  boiling.  A  large 
tongue   will    take  five  hours  to  cook  tender. 

NO.   2.— CORNED    BEEF  OR    HAM. 

Seven  pounds  salt,  three  pounds  brown  sugar, 
four  ounces  saltpetre,  two  ounces  soda  and  two 
gallons  of  water.  Boil  and  skim  well  and  turn  on 
meat  when  cold.  Let  them  remain  three  or  four 
weeks  before  using. 

CREAM   SWEET  BREAD. 
M. 

Always  get  calves'  sweet  breads.  They  should 
be  soaked  from  one  to  three  hours  in  salt  water,  and 
boil  twenty  minutes,  then  throw  in  cold  water  for 
five  minutes.  Then  remove  all  skin  and  rough 
parts,  cut  in  small  pieces,  make  cream  sauce,  put 
the  sweetbreads  in  the  sauce  and  let  them  get  ver\' 
hot  then  put  in  small  dishes  and  cover  with  crumbs 
and  little  bits  of  butter.       Put  in  oven  and  brown. 


CHICAGO  YEAST  POWDER 


IS    GUARANTEED    HICHFST    QUALITY, 
AND    COSTS    LESS   THAN    ANY    OTHER. 


MEATS.  43 

SWEETBREADS  ON  TOAST, 
s. 

Cook  as  above,  dress  with  cream  sauce  and  pour 

very  hot  over  buttered   toast. 

SWEETBREADS  FRIED. 
After  laying  in  salted  water  put  them  in  cold 
water  a  few  minutes,  then  dry  in  a  cloth,  fry  them 
with  little  strips  of  salt  pork,  or  dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Pour 
over  half  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  stir  in  one  teaspoon 
flour,  let  it  boil  up  a  few  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  OR  STEAK. 
Cut  in  pieces  ready  to  serve,  roll  in  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper — and 
summer  savory  if  desired — after  dipping  in  beaten 
<igg;  have  plenty  of  butter  and  lard  in  equal  part>  ; 
fry  quickly  on  one  side  then  turn  and  cook  thor- 
oughly. A  gravy  ma\-  be  made  of  flour  and  cream 
if  desired,  and  either  poured  over  meat  or  serveJ 
in  boat. 

BAKED  HAM. 
Take  ham,  ten  or  twelve  pounds,  wash  and  trim 
off  uneven  fat.  Make  a  paste  of  rye  flour  that  will 
spread  nicely,  spread  over  all  the  flesh  of  ham  ex- 
posed. Put  in  a  roaster  on  rack  or  plate,  bake  from 
three  to  lour  hours  even  heat.  When  done  peel 
off  the  paste  and  rind  and  stick  cloves  in  to  flavor. 

VEAL   LOAF. 
Mabel  Pillsbury. 

Boil  two  pounds  lean  veal.  When  cold  chop 
fine  with  one-fourth  pound  salt  pork.  Add  four 
butter  crackers  rolled  fine,  two  eggs,  well  beaten, 
three    hard-boiled   eggs   sliced  thin,  two  teaspoons 

C.  Sliultz\  Drugs  and  Fine  Perfumery. 


44  MEATS. 

salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  nut- 
meg. Put  in  baking  mold.  Pour  over  it  the  meat 
liquor  until  it  stands  on  the  top.  Cover  with 
cracker  crumbs  and  bake  one  hour. 

VEAL  A  LA  POULETTE. 
Mrs.  A.  G.  VanHoorebeke. 

Take  of  the  breast  of  veal,  cut  it  up  in  pieces 
about  two  inches  square,  put  it  on  to  stew  with  a 
little  water,  salt,  pepper  and  just  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  stew  slowly  for  two  hours,  add  a  piece  of 
butter  and  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  then  thicken 
the  gravy  with  the  yolk  of  eggs,  taking  care  not 
to  let  it  curdle. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Mrs.  J.  R.   Ebersole. 

Three  pounds  of  raw  veal  chopped  very  fine, 
butter  the  size  of  an  Ggg^  three  eggs,  three  table-" 
spoons  cream  or  milk,  if  milk  use  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  mix  the  eggs  and  cream  together,  mix  with 
the  veal  four  pounded  crackers,  one  teaspoon  black 
pepper,  one  large  tablespoon  salt,  one  large  table- 
spoon sage.  Mix  well  together  and  form  into  a 
loaf.  Bake  two  and  a  half  hours,  basting  with 
butter  and  water  while  baking.  Serve  cut  in 
thin  slices. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
M.  B.  Sexton. 

Three  pounds  of  veal  chopped  fine,  one-quarter 
pound  of  salt  pork  or  equal  quantity  of  butter,  one 
cup  pounded  crackers,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one- 
half  teaspoon  black  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one  tablespoon  sage,  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg,  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Mix  and  press  into  a  bread  pan. 
Bake  two  hours  and  eat  cold. 

Hodgens  for  anything  in  the  Party  line. 


MEATS.  45 

JELLIED  VEAL. 
Mrs.  H.  Smith. 

Chop  vtial  fine  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  to  one 
pint  of  any  soup  stock  a  quarter  box  of  gelatine, 
•salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Take  two  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  one  lemon,  slice  thin,  line  mould 
with  lemon  and  eggs,  fill  with  the  chopped  meat  and 
bits  of  lemon  and  egg,  pour  over  all  the  soup  stock 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Chicken  or  turkey  may  be 
used  the  same  way. 

ROAST  SPICED  MUTTON. 
Mrs.  B. 

Take  a  leg  of  mutton.  Pound  it  well  to  make 
tender,  rub  well  with  salt,  make  gashes  all  over  it 
into  w^hich  put  small  pieces  of  salt  pork,  onion, 
Avhole  pepper  and  cloves.  Brown  in  hot  oven  with- 
out water,  when  brown  add  water  and  baste  often, 
cook  two  and  one-half  hours,  thicken  gravy  with 
flour  before  serving.  Chop  two  pickles  fine  and 
add  to  the  gravy. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Linnie  Brewer 

Three  pounds  of  veal,  one  pound  of  pork.  Have 
all  chopped  fine  at  the  butchers.  Roll  three  square 
-crackers,  Iveep  out  a  little  for  the  outside,  a  half 
cup  butter  (don't  use  quite  all),  two  eggs  beaten, 
•one-half  cup  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  one 
teaspoon  of  pepper.  Mix  all  well  together,  form 
in  a  nice  loaf,  make  it  firm,  put  in  a  long,  narrow 
pan.  Put  the  remaining  cracker  and  butter  over 
the  top.  a  little  water  and  bake  two  and  one-half 
hours,  basting  once  in  a  while  with  hot  water  and 
butter. 

C.  S]niltz\  Dvjigs  and  Fine  Perfumery. 


46  MEATS. 

SCRAPLE. 

Mrs.  Flora  Hyde. 

Take  a  hog's  head,  heart,  tongue  and  part  of  the 
liver.      Cleanse  thoroughly  and   soak  in  salt  water 
twenty-four  hours.      Put   on   to  boil  in  cold  water. 
Cook  until   all   the  bones  can   be    easily  removed. 
Then  take  out  in   a  chopping  bowl  and  chop  fine. 
Season   highly   with   sage,    salt    and  pepper.      Re- 
turn it  to  the  liquor  on   the  stove,  which  you  must 
strain.      Then   thicken  with   corn  meal   and  a  tea- 
cup   of    buckwheat    flour  till   the    consistency    of 
mush.      Then   dip   out   in   deep   dishes,  and   when 
cool  slice  and  fry  a  rich  brown,  as  you  would  mush. 
It  is  very  nice  for  a  cold  morning  breakfast.     If  yoa 
make  more  than  you  can  use  at  once,  run  hot  lard 
over  the  rest   and  you  can  keep  it   all  through   the 
winter. 

MEAT    BALLS. 
Mrs.  A.  T.  Waid. 

Take  pieces  of  cooked  meat,  fat  and  lean,  that 
have  been  left  over  and  put  them  through  the  meat 
chopper,  or  chop  them  very  fine  in  a  wooden  bowl. 
To  about  a  pint  of  this  meat  add  two  beaten  eggs, 
a  handful  or  two  of  rolled  crackers.  Pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Stir  all  together  and  add  water  to- 
make  it  moist  enough  to  form  into -flat  balls. 
Grease  the  frying  pan  and  cook  lightly. 

TO  SEASON  SAUSAGE 
Mrs.  Sarah  Ruse. 

For    ten    pounds   of  pork,    one-third    fat,     two- 
thirds  lean,  when  ground,  use   ten  teaspoons  salt, 
five  teaspoons  pepper,  three  teaspoons  of  pulverized 
sage. 

Hodgens'  Candy. 


MEATS.  47 

FOR  CURING  MEAT. 

Mrs.  Wylie. 

Ten  quarts  salt,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one 
pound  pepper,  three-fourths  pound  saltpetre.  This 
amount  is  for  lOO  pounds  meat.  Mix  all  together 
in  a  tub  and  then  rub  the  meat  thoroughly  with  it 
and  lay  it  on  plank  and  leave  for  three  weeks  un- 
less the  weather  is  very  cold,  and  then  it  can  be 
left  longer. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Mrs.  Jno,  Brewer. 

For  three  pounds  use  two  eggs,  beaten  light, 
four  crackers  rolled  fine,  leave  out  enough  to  roll 
it  in.  One  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Butter  size  of  an  Qgg.  melted.  Mix  all  to- 
gether. Bake  two  or  two  and  a  half  hours,  ac- 
cording to  heat  of  oven.  Baste  often  with  the 
water.  Take  out  of  the  oven  a  half  hour  before 
dinner. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B    Smitli. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces.  Wipe  dry.  Salt  to 
taste.  Roll  each  piece  in  flour.  Use  bacon  frying 
and  lard  equal  parts.  ..If  butter  is  used  with  lard, 
use  only  enough  to  make  brown  nicely.  Have 
your  grease  hot,  and  cook  slowly,  turning  until 
nicely  browned  from  the  grease,  and  add  a  little 
water  and  cover.      Let  steam.      Make  gravy. 


IN'EVERY  RECIPE  *'*.^"  %'£\''A''n°nv^^^-^''"^^^^ 


USE    CHICAGO    YEAST    POWDER 


48 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


Liverpool. 


Ottunnva. 


Chicago. 


John  Morrell  <Sc  Co., 


I^imitecl. 


Pork  Packers,  Provision  Dealers. 

The  "Iowa's  Pride"  brand  of  Hams  and  Bacon  are  not  ex- 
celled by  any  in  flavor  or  appearance.  Call  for  "Iowa's  Pride" 
Ham,  Iowa's  Pride  Breakfast  Bacon,  Iowa's  Pride  Special  Break- 
fast Bacon.     Be  sure  to  see  that  our  name  is  burned  on  the  skin. 


Morrell's    Pure    Lard 

Warranted  free  from  all  adulteration,  is  the  lard  for  you  to  use.  Call 
for  it  and  have  no  other.  Also  try  "Wapello"  brand  of  Breakfast 
Bacon,  "Dove"  brand  Breakfast  Bacon,  "California"  Hams, 
Shoulders,  and  Pickled  goods  Call  for  these  brands  and  get  hon- 
est, reliable  goods  for  your  money.  Handled  by  all  first-class 
grocers  and  Butchers. 


J.    W.    SIPHEK. 

Prcs 


J.   n.   DIFFENBAUGH, 

Sec'y  and  Treas. 


1869-1894 


Siptier  Lumbef  and  Coal  Co 


Lumber,  Coal  and  Ice,  Sash,  Doors 
and  Blinds. 


617  S  Second  Street — Telephone  No.  6. 
Monniotitli,  III. 


The  Very  Best  Receipt  of  all 


Will  be  one  for 


The  Republican 


For  one  Year.  $1.50.      It  would  give  enjoyment  for  365  days. 


VEGETABLES.  ^ 


VEGETABLES. 


"Unquiet  meals  make  ill  digestion." — Comedy   of  Errors. 


FRIED  APPLES. 

s. 

Slice  unpared  apples  about  one-half  of  an  inch 
thick.  Fry  slowly  in  butter  or  good  drippings. 
AVhen  done  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve  very  hot. 
l^ice  at  breakfast,  or  served  with  pork. 

ASPARAGUS  ON  TOAST. 

Cut  asparagus  in  small  pieces.  Boil  in  salted 
water.  When  done  dress  with  cream,  or  milk  and 
butter,  and  pour  over  well  buttered  hot  toast. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  OMELETTE. 
K.  C. 

Well  cooked  asparagus  chopped  and  mixed  with 

•omelette  before  frying  is  very  palatable. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Mrs.    Wildemutli. 

One  quart  of  beans  soaked  over  night.  Cook 
one-half  hour.  One  desertspoon  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoon  ground  mustard.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Small  piece  of  salt  pork.  Bake 
six  hours  in  Monmouth    Pottery  Bean  Pots. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 
Mrs.  Carrie  Dearborn,  Boston. 

One  pound  of  small  white  beans.  Wash  well 
and  soak  over  night.      Parboil  until  tender,  but  not 

Hodgcns   Orange  Ice. 


50  VEGETABLES. 


soft.  Strain  and  wash  with  cold  water.  Put  in 
baking  pot  and  add  tablespoon  of  salt,  small  piece 
onion,  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one-fourth  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, or  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Cover  one- 
half  pound  of  salt  pork  with  beans,  pour  in  boiling' 
water  sufficient  to  nearly  cover  the  beans.  Cover 
closely  and  bake  slowly  eight  hours.  Remove 
cover  half  an  hour  before  serving  to  let  beans- 
brown. 

ESCALLOPED    CABBAGE. 

Put  a  head  of  cabbage  washed  and  chopped  into- 
boiling  water,  and  boil  twenty  minutes.      Drain  in 
a   colander,  place    in  two  baking   dishes    and  pour 
over  it  a  sauce  made  as  follows  :      Melt  four  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  add    four  level  teaspoons  of 
flour,  stirring  together  until  blended,  then  add  one 
quart  of   milk   and   stir   constantly    until    it  boils, 
then   add    six   hard   boiled    eggs  which    have  been 
chopped  fine,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
pepper.      Pour  this  over  the  cabbage,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs,  moistened   with  melted  butter,    and 
bake    in    a   quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.      The   pro- 
portions are  sufficient  for  two  dishes  and  will  serve 
ten  or  twelve  persons. 

CREAM   CABBAGE. 
Mrs.  F.  E.  Campbell. 

Slice  cabbage  fine.  Put  in  hot  salted  water  to 
boil.  There  should  be  more  than  enough  water  to 
cover  cabbage.  Just  before  it  is  soft  drain,  and 
add  for  one  small  cabbage,  about  two  teaspoons  of 
flour,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  teacup  milk  or 
cream.  With  cream  use  less  butter.  Pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.      Let  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 

Hodgcns  Brick  Creatn  and  Flavors. 


VEGETABLES. 


ESCALLOPED   CAULIFLOWER. 
Mrs.  E.  A.   Lord. 

Cook  the  cauliflower  one  hour  in  salt  and  water. 
Drain  and  break  apart.  Put  a  layer  of  the  cauli- 
flower in  an  escalop  dish,  moisten  it  with  cream 
sauce  and  sprinkle  in  a  little  grated  cheese.  Put 
in  another  layer  of  cauliflower,  and  continue,  as 
directed  before,  until  all  the  vegetable  is  used. 
There  should  be  two  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese 
and  one  pint  of  sauce  to  each  head  of  cauliflower. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  cheese  and  dot  with 
bits  of  butter.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

CELERY. 
B. 

Wash.      Cut    in    pieces     about    one    inch    long. 

Boil  one  and   a   half   to   two  hours.      Drain.      Add 

cream  or    milk.      Milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  as 

for  peas. 

ESCALLOPED    CABBAGE. 
Mrs.  I.  M.  Eastam. 

Cut  one-half  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  stew  un- 
til tender.-  Dress  with  milk,  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  a  layer  of  cabbage  and  one  of  rolled 
crackers  in  a  pan  until  the  pan  is  full.  Add  milk, 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  as  you  would  for  oysters. 
Put  in  oven  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

BAKED    CORN. 

Put  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  baking  dish,  then 
layer  of  corn — the  canned  will  do  just  as  well. 
Butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  another  layer  of 
crumbs  and  corn.  Pour  over  cream  or  milk.  Bake 
one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Add  milk 
to  keep  moist. 


Hodgcjis  Restaurant. 


52  VEGETABLES. 

CORN  OYSTERS 

Margaret  Dunbar. 

To  one  quart  grated  corn,  add  three  eggs  and 
three  or  four  grated  crackers,  beat  well  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  in  skillet  but- 
ter and  lard,  or  beef  drippings  in  equal  propor- 
tions, hot  but  not  scorching.  Drop  in  little  cakes 
about  the  size  of  an  oyster  (using  a  teaspoon  for 
the  purpose).  When  brown  turn  and  fry  on  other 
side,  being  very  careful  that  they  do  not  burn. 
Serve  hot.  The  v/hite  of  the  eggs  should  be 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  added  just  before  frying. 
When  green  corn  is  out  of  season,  canned  corn  or 
^'kornlet"  may  be  used. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES. 
Mrs.  J.  A.  Brundage. 

Boil  potatoes  until  tender  in  their  jackets,  then 
peel  and  slice  them  in  a  basin;  put  a  layer  of  pota- 
toes, sprinkled  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  flour, 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of  pota- 
toes, then  seasoning  until  your  basin  is  filled;  then 
fill  your  basin  half  full  of  milk  and  bake  half  an 
hour. 

EGG  PLANT.— No.  2. 
.\nna   Brady. 

Peel  the  egg  plant,  boil  until  Hone,  then  pour  off 
the  water,  mash  fine;  pepper,  butter  and  salt  to 
taste;  put  in  a  shallow  pudding  pan,  and  over  the 
top  place  a  thick  layer  of  cracker  crumbs.  Bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CORN  FRITTERS  OR  MOCK  OYSTERS. 

Palmer   House,  Chicago. 

Grate  six  ears  of  corn,  and  mix  with  one  table- 
spoon flour,  two  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Drop  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard  and  fry  like  oysters. 

TMP    Mfl^T    RFIIPATP    flavors  are  obtained  from 

inc  muoi    ucLiUHic         Chicago  flavoring  extracts. 


VEGETABLES.  53 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Mrs.  Amanda  White. 

One  pint  of  canned  corn.  Half  a  teacup  of 
milk,  two  eggs  beaten  well,  one  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  a  half  cup  of  sifted  flour 
and  a  little  pepper.  Mix  all  together,  stirring 
only  enough  to  get  the  ingredients  well  mixed. 
P>y  in  hot  lard,  but  do  not  have  the  pan  too  hot, 
or  the  fritters  will  brown  too  quickly  on  the  outside 
and  not  puff  up  nicely.  Drop  them  into  the  fry- 
ing pan  from  the  point  of  a  spoon  and  fry  a  light 
brown  on  both  sides. 

LYONAISE  POTATOES. 
C.  K. 

Fry  one  medium  sized  onion  chopped  very  fihe» 
in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  ;  chop  fine  cold  boiled 
potatoes  and  put  in  skillet  with  onions.  Fry  a 
light  brown,  stirring  constantly.  Add  two  table- 
spoons parsley  to  potatoes. 

EGG   PLANT.— No.    i. 

Anna    Brady. 

Feel  and  cut  in  slices  the  purple  kind,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  let  drain  for  one  hour;  make  a  light 
batter  with  one  Ggg,  flour  and  a  little  water,  dip 
the  slices  into  it  and  fry  in  butter. 

SACKED  POTATOES. 

Mrs.  Jos.  Stevenson. 

Selecft  for  baking,  potatoes  as  near  of  a  size  as 
possible.  When  baked,  cut  off  one  end,  scrape 
out  the  inside  with  a  spoon,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  skins.  Add  to  the  potatoes,  butter,  salt 
and  sufficient  hot  milk  to  make  quite  soft.  Fill 
the  skins  with  this  and  place  on  end  in  a  buttered 
pan  and  bake  until  brown  on  top.  The  potatoes 
will  puff  up  considerably  if  sufficiently  beaten. 
Nice  for  breakfast  or  tea. 


54  VEGETABLES. 


BAKED    TURNIPS. 

S.  I. 

If  large,  split,  and  bake  as  you  would  potatoes, 
only  longer — two  or  three  hours  if  large.  When 
done,  mash  fine,  season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.      Serve  hot. 

MUSHROOM  OMELET 
To  one  can  mushrooms  take  twelve  or  sixteen 
eggs.  Cook  mushrooms  in  their  own  liquor  till 
tender.  When  cold  chop  rather  fine.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  To  the  eggs,  well  beaten, 
add  mushrooms,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  scram- 
ble in  the  old-fashioned  way,  only  very  soft,  ad- 
ding a  little  butter. 

POTATOES  STEWED  IN  BUTTER. 
Peel  the  potatoes  and  slice  them  into  rather 
small,  even  slices;  put  them  over  the  fire  in  enough 
salted  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  and  boil  until 
they  begin  to  grow  tender,  but  not  until  they  be- 
gin to  break  ;  drain,  and  to  a  pint  of  potatoes,  used 
about  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a 
scant  half  cup  of  milk.  When  thebutter  is  melted 
and  put  with  the  milk,  put  in  the  potatoes  and 
shake  gently  to  keep  from  sticking  to  the  pan, 
being  careful  not  to  break  them  until  they  have 
absorbed  the  butter  and  milk;  season  to  ta^te  with 
salt  and  white  pepper. 

MACARONI. 
Mrs.  R.  M.  Stevenson,  Tarkio,  Mo. 

Put  macaroni  on  stove  with  water  to  cover  for 
one  half  hour.  Heat  one  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  two 
or  three  well  beaten  eggs,  salt  macaroni,  put  all 
together,  grate  a  little  cheese  on  top  with  j)ieces 
of  butter  all  around.  Bake  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes. 

Do  not  take  medicine  when  yon  are  well. 


VEGETABLES.  55 


ESCALLOPED   TOMATOES. 

Grease  well  with  butter  a  pudding  dish  and 
place  the  lirst  layer  of  crushed  crackers,  butter, 
23epper  and  salt  and  a  little  water,  and  the 
next  layer  of  ripe  tomatoes  with  a  little  butter, 
jjepper  and  salt  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  last  layer 
being  of  crackers  and  seasoning.  Canned  toma- 
toes may  be  used. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS. 
H.  K. 

For  three  persons,  peel  and  boil  three  good 
.sized  onions:  w^hen  tender  chop  and  place  in  bak- 
ing dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs; 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  moisten 
thoroughly  with  milk;  bake. 

MACARONI   AND   TOMATOES. 

Break  a  cupful  of  macaroni  into  pieces  an  inch 
long  anxl  boil  twenty  minutes,  after  soaking  an 
hour  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and  w-ashing  well. 
Make  a  puree  of  one  quart  of  tomatoes  and  one 
small  onion.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  salt  and  pepper  and  sugar,  if  you  like;  drain 
the  macaroni  and  add:  serve  hot. 

STEWED  MACARONI. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  macaroni  in  water,  drain 
w^ell.  put  into  a  saucepan  one  ounce  of  butter,  mix 
with  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  moisten  with  four 
tablespoons  of  veal  or  beef  stock,  one  gill  of 
cream:  salt  and  pej^per  to  taste;  put  in  macaroni, 
let  it  boil  up  and  serve  w^hile  hot. 

PARSNIPS. 
B. 

Boil  with  thin  slices  of  bacon.  Allow  the  water 
to  boil  off  and  fry  down  to  rich  brow^n.  The  bacon 
gives  fine  flavor. 

Sunshine  is  one  of  nature  s  most  potent  remedies. 


56  VEGETABLES. 

GREEN  TOMATOES  FRIED. 

Take  four  large,  smooth,  green  tomatoes:  slice: 
let  stand  in  cold  salt  water  for  a  half  hour:  drain 
and  dredge  well  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and 
fry  in  butter,  a  nice  brown;  serve  hot. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 
Mrs.  M.  J.  B. 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  blossom  side  of  the 
tomatoes  and  with  a  teaspoon  remove  the  pulp 
without  breaking  the  shell:  chop  one  onion  and 
add.  with  bread  crumbs  rubbed  fine,  to  the  pulp 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt  (and  sugar,  if  you 
like).  When  thoroughly  mixed  fill  the  tomatoes 
and  put  the  slice  back  in  its  place.  Put  in  baking 
dish,  stem  side  down  with  just  a  little  water  and  a 
lump  of  butter  on  each  to  keep  from  burning. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTER  PLANT. 
Mrs.  C.  C.  Pollard. 

Scrape  plant,  cut  into  crosswise  slices,  and  put 
into  boiling  water  and  boil  until  tender,  then 
thicken  with  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  mash  fine, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready 
a  skillet  with  two  tablespoons  of  hot  lard,  drop  in 
cakes  and  fry  until  brown. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 
Mrs.  C.  C.   McCoy. 

One  cup  mashed  potato,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg. 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to  mix  soft; 
roll  and  cut  in  strips  about  size  of  finger  and  roll 
lightly  with  the  hand  and  fry  as  you  would  dough- 
nuts; eat  warm  with  butter  or  syrup. 

POTATO  BALLS, 
p. 
Mix  mashed  potatoes  with  the  yolk  of  one  egg, 
roll  them  into  balls,  flour  them  or  roll  in  egg   and 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  good  drip- 
pings. 


VEGETABLES.  57 


FRIED   PARSNIPS. 
M.  P. 

Peel  and  boil:  when  done,  drain,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  dip  first  in  melted  butter,  then  in 
flour,  and  dust  with  sugar.  Put  two  tablespoons 
of  drippings  or  lard  into  a  frying  pan;  when  hot 
l^ut  in  enough  parsnips  to  cover  bottom  of  pan, 
fry  brown  0:1  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  on 
the  other.   Serve  with  roast  pork. 

POTATO  PEARS. 

Mrs.    Patterson. 

Mash  and  season  one  half  dozen  potatoes.  Mold 
them  while  warm  into  the  shape  of  small  j)ears, 
dip  them  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  stick  in  the 
small  end  of  each  pear  a  clove  (the  large  end  of 
the  clove  in  the  potato),  to  represent  the  stem. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  till 
a  rich  brown.  Success  depends  on  thorough 
mashing  and  seasoning,  and  baking  long  enough 
to  heat  them  through. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 
Mrs.  B. 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  beaten  until  creamy,  then  add  two 
well  beaten  eggs  and  one  cup  of  cream,  a  little 
salt,  beat  well,  pour  into  a  baking  dish,  spread 
butter  over  the  top  and  bake  quickly  a  delicate 
brown. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 
Mrs.  Mary  A.  Frantz. 

Boil  or  steam  the  potatoes  until  almost  done. 
When  ready  to  fry  pare  them,  cut  in  slices  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Take  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg, four  tablespoons  sugar, put  into  frying  pan; 
when  all  is  melted  lay  in  potatoes:  have  a  moder- 
ate fire;  when  brown,  turn;  fry  without  cover. 

C.  Shultz'  for  a7iy thing  in  the  Drug  line. 


58  VEGETABLES. 


ONION  PIE. 
Mrs.  Pen  D.  Good. 

Take  one  doze:i  onions,  cut  up  and  put  in  a  skil- 
let with  butter  and  lard  and  fry  till  soft:  then  add 
half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  half  cup  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  paste  made  of 
milk  and  ilour:  then  season  with  pej^per  and  salt; 
bake  the  pie  crust  first  and  have  ready:  when  you 
get  the  onions  all  done,  put  in  the  baked  crust  and 
set  in  oven  long  enough  to  brown  on  top. 

ONIONS. 

This  healthful  vegetable  should  be  eaten  oftener 
and  would  be  if  it  were  not  for  the  disagreeable 
odor.  The  following  way  of  preparing  modifies 
this  and  prevents  the  burning  sensation  often  felt 
in  the  stomach.  Slice  very  thin,  pour  over  boil- 
ing water,  let  them  stand  five  minutes  or  longer, 
serve  with  a  very  little  vinegar  and  salt:  excellent 
with  salad  dressing. 

HOW  TO  BOIL.  RICE. 

Pick  your  rice  clean  and  wash  it  in  two  cold 
waters,  not  draining  off  the  last  water  until  you 
are  ready  to  put  the  rice  on  the  fire.  Prepare  a 
saucepan  with  water  and  a  little  salt.  When  it 
boils  sprinkle  in  the  rice  gradually  so  as  not  to 
stop  the  boiling.  Boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes, 
keeping  the  pot  covered.  Then  take  it  from  the 
fire  and  pour  off  the  water,  after  which  set  the  pot 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  with  the  lid  off  to  allow 
the  rice  to  dry  and  the  grains  to  separate. 

Remember — Boil  rapidly  from  the  time  you  cov- 
er the  pot  until  you  take  it  off:  this  allows  each 
grain  to  swell  to  three  times  its  normal  size  and 
the  motion  prevents  the  grains  from  sticking  to- 
gether. Don't  stir  it  as  this  will  cause  it  to  fall  to 
the  bottom  and  burn.  When  properly  boiled,  rice 
should  be  snowy  white,  perfectly  dry  and  soft, 
and  every  grain  separate  and  alone. 

A  skyour  grocer  for  A  ndersons  Jmns  a7id  Mincemeats 


VEGETABLES.  59 


MACARONI    AND    CHEESE. 
E. 

Break  in  pieces,  boil  about  an  hour  in  plenty  of 
water,  adding  more  as  it  soaks  into  macaroni;  put 
in  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  grated 
cheese;  salt;  nearly  cover  mith  milk.  Bake  half 
Jiour;  a  beaten  egg  may  be  added. 

ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS. 

Put  the  mushrooms  in  a  buttered  baking  dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs,  seasoning  each 
layer  plentifully  with  butter;  add  salt,  pepper  and 
a  gill  of  cream  or  gravy.  Bake  twenty  minutes, 
keeping  covered  while  in  the  oven. 

TOMATOES  AND  RICE. 
Mrs.'E.  Jatnieson . 

In  cooking  tomatoes  for  one  half  dozen  persons, 
put  in  two  tablespoons  of  raw  rice  when  first  put 
on  to  stew.  It  will  be  found  a  very  palatable  dish 
cooked  until  the  rice  is  well  done,  and  seasoned 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

TOMATO    FRITTERS. 
Mrs.  E. 

One"  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  one  egg.  half  tea- 
spoon soda,  flour  enough  to  make  the  batter  the 
consistency  of  pancakes. 

CANNED  PEAS. 

French    Cook. 

Treat  any  good  canned  peas  in  following  man- 
ner and  they  will  be  found  nearly  equal  to  fresh 
ones:  Turn  from  can  into  colander  and  drain  off 
liquor.  Then  put  in  plenty  of  salted  hot  water 
and  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Return  to  colander 
and  drain.  Put  in  saucepan '  with  milk  or  cream 
and  butter  and  cook  till  tender.  Generally  no 
more  cooking  is  required. 

C.  Shultz\  Drugs  and  Fine  Perfumery. 


6o  VEGETABLES. 


ESCALLOPED    SALSIFY,    OR    VEGETABLE     OYSTER, 

Scrape  the  roots  and  throw  them  in  water  to 
prevent  discoloring;  cut  in  pieces  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick,  boil  till  tender,  remove  from  the  water, 
then  fill  the  i^udding  dish  with  a  layer  of  the  oys- 
ter plant,  and  a  layer  of  crackers,  rolled  not  too 
fine:  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  plentiful  sup- 
ply of  butter  and  milk  enough  to  thoroughly 
moisten  the  quantity.     Bake  one  hour. 


A  sk  your  grocer  for  Welsh's  Maple  Syrup. 


BAPTIST  LADIES  COOK  BOOK.  6i 

how  TO  HAKE  SALADS, 

Buu  suitabfe  materiafs.  We  keep  evepu- 
thino  in  Groceries,  and  make  a  speciaftu 
of  Pure  Goods. 

Monmouth,  Illmois.  Ov-UI    I      DlxVjOi     01     ^\J> 


A  WORD  TO  THE  LADIES. 


See  to  it  that  your  flEN  FOLKS  always  buy  their  Hats 
and  Furnishing  Goods  of  us. 

Style— always  the  latest !    Quality — the  best !     Price — 
just  right  I  Yours  Truly, 

J.  A.  HANNA  &  CO., 

•  Hatters  and  Hen's  Furnishers. 

The  Woman's  Exchange 

Is  the  housekeepers'  best  friend.  E^ver3'thing- 
is  prepared  by  Monmouth's  best  cooks,  and 
therefore  is  just  as  it  should  be.  Delicious  home- 
made Br:ad,  Cakes,  Pies,  Meats,  Salads,  etc. 
Fancy  Work  on  hand  and  orders  taken. 

5"„Smh,''?fiK,.  I  Ida  Thompson,  Prop'r. 


FOR  FINE  LAUNDRY  WORK,  QO  TO 

4 

T*"^  rion  mouth  Steam 
Laundry  Co., 

108  West  First  Avenue,  Monmouth,  III. 


62  SALADS. 


SALADS. 


"The  imaginary  relish  is  so  sweet  that  it  enchants  my  sense." 

— Troihis  and  Cressida, 


ALMOND  SALAD. 

M.   B. 

Two-thirds  celery  to  one-third  chopped  blanch- 
ed almonds  and  mayonnaise. 

APPLE'SALAD. 
Cut  the  celery  as  for  chicken  salad.  Peel  the 
apples,  cut  them  as  fine  as  the  celery,  and  cover 
with  lemon  juice  to  keep  them  from  turning  dark. 
For  a  small  family  use  two  apples  and  mix  with 
them  half  as  much  celery  a5  you  have  chopped  ap- 
ples. Cover  with  a  French  dressing  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves  if  you  cah  get  them.  For  a  com- 
pany luncheon  put  the  salad  in  lemon  skins,  lay 
them  on  lettuce,  and  garnish  with  a  little  mayon- 
naise. 

COLD   SLAW. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Wallace. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  Ggg,  two 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
of  mixed  mustard,  and  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Stir 
until  it  boils.  When  cold  pour  over  the  shaved 
cabbage.  This  dressing  is  good  for  any  kind  of 
salad. 

HAM  SALAD. 
Boil  ham  tender  and  chop  fine,  then  add  tomato 
catsup,  a  little   mustard    and   vinegar.      Mix  thor- 
oughly and  place  in  a  mold. 

l/se  Maple  City  Soap. 


SALADS.  63 

CREAM    DRESSING  FOR  COLD   SLAW. 

Mary  Patterson. 

Two  tablespoons  whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of 
sugar  and  four  of  vinegar.  Beat  well  and  pour 
over  cabbage,  previously  cut  very  fine  and  sea- 
soned with  salt. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Sipher. 

Boil  with  chicken  one  pound  of  loin  of  veal  un- 
til tender.  Let  stand  till  cool,  then  cut  with  a 
knife  in  small  pieces.  Be  careful  not  to  use  the 
skin  of  the  chisken  or  any  of  the  gristle.  Take 
equal  parts  of  meat  and  celery,  add  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one-half  pound  English  walnuts  chopped. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mix  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Just  before  serving  add  one-half  cup  of 
whipped  cream. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Maggie  Rugg. 

Put  one  pint  of  vinegar  and  one  cup  of  butter  on 
stove  to  heat,  but  not  to  boil.  Yolks  of  eight 
eggs,  well  beaten,  with  two  tablespoons  of  mus- 
tard and  one  of  salt.  Stir  these  slowly  into  the 
hot  vinegar  and  butter,  and  continue  stirring  un- 
til well  cooked.  Set  is  a  cool  place.  It  should 
be  pretty  thick,  and  will  keep,  if  on  ice,  a  long 
time.  Cut  the  meat  as  fine  as  you  like  (not  chop) 
from  two  chickens.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place.  Add  about  as  much  cut 
celery  as  meat  and  when  ready  to  serve,  pour  on 
the  dressing,  stirring  it  well  through,  and  one  quart 
of  good  whipped  creami.  Whip  part  of  the  cream 
if  preferred. 

Ask  your  grocer  for  '  'Bine  Ribboii'  canned  goods\ 
and  Olives. 


64  SAL\DS. 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

Harriet  Gettemy  Morgan. 

Box  of  gelatine,  soak  in  one  pint  of  water,  three 
lemons,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  quart  of  su- 
gar, six  oranges,  one  can  of  grated  pineapple  or 
sliced  pineapple  chopped,  twelve  bananas,  cut  in 
slices,  or  California  grapes  cut  and  the  seeds  taken 
out. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 
B. 
To  one  package  of  gelatine  use  one  quart  of 
boiling  water.  Add  the  juice  of  three  or  four  lem- 
ons and  sweeten  to  taste.  Let  the  jelly  become 
cold,  then  stir  into  it  small  pieces  of  oranges,  pine- 
apple and  bananas,  then  set  the  jelly  on  the  ice  to 
cool  and  harden.  This  salad  is  improved  by  ad- 
ding cocoanut  or  nut  meats.  Use  any  kind  of 
fruit. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Jno.  Clark. 

Boil  about  twenty  oysters  in  their  own  liquor 
five  minutes.  Drain.  Wash  in  cold  water  then 
dry  and  place  on  ice.  Mix  with  a  half  cup  of  may- 
onnaise, and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 
Mrs.  J.  M.  McClung. 

One  large  can  or  two  small  cans  of  cove  oysters. 
Six  hard-boiled  eggs,  four  cucumber  pickles, 
not  too  large,  and  a  little  celery.  Chop  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  pickles  and  celery  quite  fine. 
Chop  or  cut  up  the  oysters,  not  too  fine.  Take 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  with  butter  about 
the  size,  of  an  egg  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  together  and  thin 
it  with  vinegar  to  taste. 

C.  SJuiltz  Drugs  and  Fi?ie  Perfumery. 


SALADS.  65 

NUT  SALAD. 
Emma  A.    Tucker. 

Take  two  cups  of  lightly  chopped  meats  of  black 
walnuts,  English  walnuts,  or  hickory  nuts.  Add 
two  cups  chopped  celery,  and  amalgamate  with 
sufificient  quantity  of  very  good  salad  dressing. 

CHICKEN    SALAD. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Smith. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  eight  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  two  of  sugar,  two  of 
made  mustard,  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  vinegar. 
Put  vinegar  on  stove  to  boil.  Add  the  above  in- 
gredients and  stir  until  thickens.  Add  more  vine- 
gar if  too  thick.  Set  off  to  cool.  Boil  chicken  un- 
til tender.  Take  out  all  the  bone  and  cut  up  in 
small  pieces.  Use  half  as  much  celery  or  cabbage 
-as  chicken.  If  cabbage  is  used  add  celery  seed 
and  pour  dressing  over,  and  stir  lightly.  Before 
serving  add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream.  This  will 
serve  twenty  persons. 

POTATO    SALAD 
^  Mrs.  John  E.  Brewer. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  eight  tablespoons  of  vine- 
■gar,  eight  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon French  mustard,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  three 
teaspooos  salt,  one-fourth  cayenne  pepper.  Boil 
yolks  of  eggs.  Heat  the  vinegar  and  pour  hot 
•over  the  beaten  yolks,  stirring  all  the  time.  Put 
back  on  stove  and  cook  slowly.  When  done  put 
in  melted  butter  and  mix  thoroughly  and  add  last, 
eight  boiled  potatoes,  and  about  half  as  much  cel- 
-ery,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  English  walnuts, 
broken  up.  Thin  down  with  whipped  cream  when 
ready  to  use. 

Maple  City  Soaps  arc  the  best. 


66  SALADS. 

NASTURTIUM  SALAD. 
Ella    Hoyt. 

Line  a  salad  bow]  with  nasturtium  leaves.  Take 
fully  ripe  tomatoes  scald  and  slice.  Cold  boiled 
potatoes  cut  in  dice.  Onions  sliced  very  thin. 
Put  in  salad  bowl  in  alternate  layers,  pouring  over 
all  mayonnaise  dressing.  Chop  some  nasturtium 
seed  and  leaves  and  mix  through  salad. 

VEAL  SALAD. 

Gussie  Cumming. 

Four  pounds  of  veal.  Three  stalks  of  celery, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup*  of  sour 
cream,  two  spoons  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  cel- 
ery seed,  one  tablespoon  of  prepared  mustard,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil 
to  a  thick  cream,  and  when  cold,  or  just  before 
serving,  pour  over  veal    and  celery,    chopped  fine. 

LOBSTER    SALAD. 

Make  as  salmon  salad,  using  lobsters  instead  of 
salmon. 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD. 

Use  recipe  for  chicken  or  veal  salad.  Substi- 
tuting sweetbreads,  prepared  by  soaking  in  salted 
water  two  hours.  Skim.  Put  in  hot  water  and 
boil  thirty  minutes.  Put  in  cold  water  and  remove 
the  rest  of  the  skim. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

In  making  shrimp  salad,  by  adding  a  little  cold 
stewed  celery  root  (chopped)  and  some  chopped 
sweet  parsley  and  chives,  the  salad  is  remarked 
by  every  one  as  being  so  much  better  than  the 
usual  shrimp  salad.. 


C.  Shultz  for  anything  in  the  Drug  line 


SALADS.  67 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
Mrs.  C.  A.  Willits. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  Beat 
thoroughly.  Heat  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and 
two  of  water,  add  to  above.  Cook  over  hot  water 
till  it  thickens.  While  hot  beat  in  half  as  much 
olive  oil  or  butter,  and  reduce  with  cream. 

SALAD    DRESSING. 

Mrs.  Jos.  Stevenson. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of 
melted  butter,  two  tablespoons  mustard,  a  pinch  of 
red  pepper.  Salt  to  taste.  Beat  the  eggs.  Mix 
other  ingredients  with  melted  butter,  then  add 
eggs.  Boil  until  thick.  Stir  in  a  cup  of  whipped 
cream.      Stir  constantly  until  done. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
Emma  Gregg. 

Yolks  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  three  tablespoons 
of  oil,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  cup  vinegar. 
Heat  the  vinegar  and  add  to  the  eggs,  oil  and 
mustard.  Then  boil  until  it  thickens.  This  makes 
enough  dressing  for  two  medium  or  large  chickens. 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING. 

Add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs  to  five 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Cook  in  double  kettle  until 
stiff,  being  careful  to  stir  clean  from  the  sides  of 
the  bowl  while  cooking.  Remove  from  the  fire. 
Add  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  stir  until  cool  and 
perfectly  smooth.  When  cool,  season  to  taste 
with  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  thin  with  sour 
cream  to  the  required  consistency.  With  cabbage 
salad   use  sugar  instead  of  mustard. 

Ask  yoiw  gj'occr  for  xAndcrsoii  s  Jams  and  Mincemeat 


68  SALADS. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Rub  well  together  one  teaspoon  of  made  mustard 
and  one  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  add  the  yolk  of  one 
raw  egg.  Pour  on,  very  slowly,  oil  or  melted  but- 
ter, beating  hard  all  the  time  until  as  much  is  made 
as  wanted,  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 
The  mixture  should  look  perfectly  smooth. 

A  nice  way  to  eat  lettuce  is  with  lemon  juice 
and  powdered  sugar,  serving  the  lemons  as  for 
raw  oysters. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Wildermuth. 

Six  large  potatoes,  one  large  onion,  whites  of 
three  hard  boiled  eggs,  chop  all  together.  Dress- 
ing: Yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  yolk  of  one 
raw  egg,  half  cup  of  vinegar,  half  teaspoonful 
of  ground  mustard,  half  teaspoonful  of  celery 
seed.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

PECAN  SALAD. 
Mrs.  W.  A.  Hoyt. 

Cut  celery  as  for  salad  and  mix  with  pecan 
meats,  pouring  over  all  some  mayonaise  dressing. 
Nice  to  serve  with  meats. 

CHEAP  POTATO  SALAD. 
Mrs.  Peter  Burns. 

Chop  two  good  sized  onions  veiy  fine,  chop  or 
dice  six  medium  sized  potatoes;  season  with  salt. 
add  pepper  and  celery  seed  if  desired.  For  dress- 
ing, beat  two  eggs  and  half  cup  of  sugar  together, 
then  add  one  cup  vinegar,  put  into  a  skillet  in 
which  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  has  been  melted, 
let  it  come  to  a  boil;  pour  over  the  potato  and  on- 
ion mixture. 

Ask  your  grocer  for  ''Blue  Ribbon'  Canned  Goods 

and  Olives. 


SALADS.  69 

POTATO  SALAD. 
Mrs.  Jos.  Stevenson. 

Boil  six  or  eight  medium  sized  potatoes;  when 
cold  cut  in  small  bits,  with  one  stalk  of  celery  cut 
fine;  six  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed  fine;  a  small 
slice  of  onion  cut  fine;  pepper,  salt  and  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar. 

Dressing — Five  eggs  beat  light;  add  one  cup  of 
sour  cream,  half  cup  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut;  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Beat  all  well  to- 
gether; put  on  the  stove  and  stir  constantly  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil;  beat  until  cold  and  then  pour 
over  the  salad. 

Put  in  a  cool  place  or  on  ice.  Before  serving 
stir  in  one  cup  of  whijDped  cream,  and  serve  on 
lettuce  or  cabbage  leaves. 

SALMON-SALAD   EGGS. 
Mrs.  A.  H.  Dean. 

Boil  the  number  of  eggs  you  desire   until  hard. 
Mix  the  powdered  yolks  with  canned  salmon,   sea- 
son  with   vinegar,    mustard,     salt     and    pepper. 
Place  the  mixture  within  the  whites   of  the   eggs, 
and  throw  over  them   drawn    butter.     Serve   hot. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Tourtellotte. 

To  one  can  of  salmon  take  one-fourth  of  a 
head  of  cabbage  and  two  bunches  of  celery.  Chop 
cabbage  and  celery  very  fine,  mix  it  with  the  sal- 
mon, then  add  one  teaspoon  mustard,  two-thirds 
cup  vinegar,  with  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
sauce.     Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

M.  B.  S. 

Eggs  tw^o,  sugar  four  teaspoons,  cream  three 
quarters  cup,  vinegar  three  quarters  cup,  mustard 

Ask  yoitr  grocer  for  Welsh's  Maple  Syrup. 


70  SALADS. 

one  teaspoon,  salt  and  pepper,  (a  little).  Boil  the 
eggs  hard;  rub  the  yolks  fine;  add  mustard,  then 
the  sugar,  then  the  salt  and  pepper,  then  the  vin- 
egar slowly,  and  last  the  cream.  Put  into  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  a  layer  of  shrimp 
broken  moderately  fine,  then  a  layer  of  celery  cut 
fine;  pour  over  this  three  or  four  spoons  of  the 
dressing;  so  continue  till  all  is  used. 

TOMATO  SALAD  WITH  SHRIMPS. 

Take  six  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  skin  them,  put 
upon  the  ice  to  chill,  remove  the  inside  of  the  to- 
matoes, cut  it  up  with  a  silver  knife  into  small 
pieces,  and  drain  off  juice,  then  add  shrimps  to 
this  mixture,  allowing  four  or  five  for  each  toma- 
to, a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  any  good  mayon- 
naise dressing,  stir  all  lightly  and  fill  the  tomato 
shells,  place  again  upon  ice,  when  ready  to  serve 
put  each  tomato  upon  a  lettuce  leaf  and  add  one 
teaspoon  of  mayonnaise  upon  the  top  of  the  mix- 
ture, w^hich  ought  to  be  piled  rather  high.  The 
success  of  this  salad  depends  upon  the  coldness. 

TONGUE  SALAD. 

Chill  meat,  half  cup  of  ham.  one  cup  tongue, 
one  cup  celery  or  cucumber,  fourth  cup  chipped 
olives,  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  white  pepper,  a 
little  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  stock.  Line  bowl 
with  lettuce  or  parsley;  use  mayonnaise  dressing. 

VEAL  SALAD. 

Mi'S.  N.  S.  Woodward. 

Four  and  a  half  pounds  veal,  one  bunch  of  cel- 
ery, three  boiled  eggs. 

Dressing:  Three  eggs  or  yolks  of  four  or  five, 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  four  tablespoons  vinegar, 
one  teaspoon  mustard.  Boil  until  thick  as  cream 
and  let  get  cold. 

Use  Maple  City  Soaps. 


SALADS.  71 

MAYONAISE  DRESSING. 
Mary   C.   McNitt. 

Yolks  of  two  ego-s  well  beaten  (or  one  whole 
■egg),  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  one  level  teaspoon 
pepper,  two  level  teaspoons  sugar,  two  level  tea- 
spoons prepared  mustard,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter. Stir  into  this  four  tablespoons  vinegar.  Put 
the  dressing  in  a  bowl  set  in  boiling  water,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  thick.  This  dressing  is  nice 
■on  sliced  tomatoes. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 
Mrs.  W.  G.  Miller. 

Two  heads  of  crisp  lettuce,  two  cucumbers,  sev- 
eral fresh  tomatoes,  one  small  onion,  a  little  cel- 
ery. Shred  the  lettuce,  chop  the  onion  and  celery 
fine,  and  slice  the  cucumbers  and  tomatoes.  Ar- 
range in  layers  on  dish  and  pour  over  it  any  good 
salad  dressinfif. 


Maple  City  Soaps  arc  the  best. 


ya  BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK 

The  R.  A.  Wilson  Company 


Books  and  Stationery. 
Carpets,  Wall  Paper  and  Furniture. 

MONnOUTH,  ILLINOIS. 

A  GOOD  RECEIPT : 

Subscribe  for  the IJemOC  VSLV    *"^  ''^^**  '^  ^"  ^^^  year. 

<> 

PUBLISHED  EVERY  THURSDAY  AT  $1.50  A  YEAR. 

Job  Printing  Neatly  Executed.  Quinby  Block. 


rnVw--"  ALUMINUM  WARE  AT  SCHUSSLER'S? 

L/Ooks  like  silver,  is  light,  will  not  tarnish, 
and   CHEAP. 

Tableware,  Cooking  Utensils,  Spoons,  etc. 

Also  solid  Silver  and  Plated  Ware  at  Greatly  Re- 
duced Prices  Bread  Knives,  Cake  Knives,  Meat 
Knives,  Scissors,  etc.,  etc. 


John  W.  Byers.  John  G.  Moore.  J.  E.  (Dick)  Brers. 

U.  S.  Yards,  Chicago.    U.  S.  Yards,  Chicago.    St'kYds,So.Omaha,Neb. 

BYERS,  MOORE  &  BYERS, 

Live  -Stock  CotTvmi.s.siof\  MercKaKt^, 


Byers  Brothers  &  Co., 

Stock  Y'ards. 
South  Omaha,  Neb. 


Room  109  Exchange  Building. 
Union  Stock  Yards 


Address  all  conrmunlcations  Exchange  Building,  Union  Stock  Yards. 


CHEESE. 


73 


CHEESE. 

'The  queen  of  curds  and  cream.'' — JVintefs  Tale. 


CHEESE  OMELET. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Dean. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  grated  cheese,  one  cup 
of  rolled  cracker,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs, 
beaten  separately,  salt. 

WELSH  RAREBITS. 
Mrs.  T.  H.  Hanna 

Melt  slowly  in  a  crock  or  porcelain  kettle,  rich 
cream  cheese.  Add  a  little  cayenne.  Toast  bread. 
Butterslightly.  Arrange  on  a  plate.  Pour  cheese 
over  and   serv^e  very  hot. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Three  tablespoons  of  flour,  three  tablespoons  of 
Parmesan  cheese,  one  tablespoon  of"  butter,  one 
tablespoon  of  milk,  one-half  saltspoon  of  salt,  one- 
fourth  saltspoon  of  pepper,  one  Gggy  yolk  only. 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  and  add  the  milk,  the 
yolk  of  the  Qggy  and  the  butter,  softened.  Mix  all 
well  with  a  spoon,  and  when  smooth  divide  the 
dough  in  two  parts.  Roll  these  very  thin,  cut  in 
narrow  strips  three  inches  long.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  They  maybe  served  hot  or 
cold.      Pile  on  a  plate  in  log  cabin  style. 

CHEESE    SOUFFLE. 
Mrs.  I.  P.  Pillsbury. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoon 
flour.      Mix   together.      Add   yolks   of  three  eggs. 

Get  a  new  Stove  frofu  Pinkertott  &  Evans. 


74  CHEESE. 

one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  grated  cheese, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne  pep- 
per. Put  on  stove  and  cook.  Whip  whites  of 
eggs  stiff.  Mix  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  but- 
tered dish.  Bake  until  done,  about  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  and  serve  immediately. 

CHEESE  STICKS. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Scott. 

One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  shortening 
as  for  rich  paste,  one  and  a  half  pints  grated  cheese. 
Mix  flour  and  shortening,  then  add  the  cheese. 
Mix  with  milk  to  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  to  the  thick- 
ness of  nearly  half  an  inch.  Sprinkle  over  it  a 
little  salt.  Cut  in  narrow  strips  and  bake  to  a 
light  brown.  Let  them  be  thoroughly  done  before 
taking  out. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

One-half  pound  cheese,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
cup  cream,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Break  cheese 
into  small  bits,  put  the  ingredients  in  a  pan  over 
hot  water.  Stir  until  cheese  melts.  Spead  over 
toast  and  serve. 

CHEESE  FONDA. 

Soak  one  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  in  two  scant 
cups  rich  milk.  Beat  into  this  three  eggs  whipped 
very  light.  Add  one  small  teaspoon  melted  but- 
ter, one  small  teaspoon  pepper,  one  small  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  pound  of  old  cheese  grated.  Pour 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  strew  the  top  with 
dry  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  a  delicate  brown  in 
quick  oven.  Serve  immediately  in  the  baking 
dish,  as    it   soon  falls.      This  is   a  delicious  relish. 

Fresh  Butter  and  Eggs  at  W.    J.  Patterson  s. 


CHEESE.  75 

SOMETHING    FOR  LUNCH. 

Break  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese  into  bits 
and  pound  with  it  to  a  smooth  paste  two  spoon- 
fuls of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  a  very  little  cayenne,  and  a  half-tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Toast  six  slices  of  bread,  and  after 
spreading  them  with  the  mixture,  lay  them  in  a 
pan  in  a  hot  oven  for  five  minutes.      Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Grate  three  tablespoons  any  kind  of  cheese. 
Add  three  tablespoons  flour,  a  little  red  pepper 
and  salt.  Add  to  the  dry  ingredients  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  water  and 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Roll  thin,  as  for  cookies.  Cut 
in  strips.  Bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  to  a  light 
brown.      Delicious  with   salads. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 
Helen  Dean. 

One  cup  grated  cheese,  two  cups  flour,  two  ta- 
blespoons butter,  (heaping).  Enough  cold  water 
to  thin.  Pinch  of  cayenne.  Mix  butter  and 
cheese  together,  add  water,  then  flour.  Roll  thin. 
Cut  in  strips  and   bake  in  rather  hot  oven. 

CHEESE  CRACKERS. 

M.  B.    S. 

Place  a  quantity  of  buttered  Saratoga  flakes  or 
soda  crackers  in  a  baking  pan.  Heaping  teaspoon 
of  rich  grated  cheese.  Dust  a  little  cayenne  pep- 
per over,  and  bake  about  five  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
Bake  a  light  brown.      Excellent  with  salads. 


Waseca  White  Rose  Flour  at  W.  J.  Pattersons 


76 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


UNt.laiUMi-tL(>   iPi   UUALITY   AND   PRICE, 


GHiGACO  YEAST  POWDER 

Can  Aliuaus  be  Depended  Upon  for 

PERFECT  RESULTS 
*"^~  ONLY  HIGHEST  GRADE 

BAKING  FODDER  is  required. 

IT    MflKES    THE~UGHTEST    BREflD/ 

THOSE  WHO  TRY  IT,  ALWAYS  IJSE  IT. 


SOLD     EVERYWHERE     BY     FIRST-CLASS     GROCERS 
AT    THE    UNIFORM    PRICE    OF    25Cts 
PER    POUND. 


MANUFACTURED  AND  GUARANTEED  BY 

CHAPMAN   &  SMITH   COMPANY. 
CHICAGO. 


GRUB0STUMI' 


MAKES  A 

CLEAN 
_      _  ,^ fyWF  F  P 

of  two  Acres  at  a  sitting.  A  nian,aboy  andaboriecanoperate 
it.  No  heavy  Chains  or  rods  to  handle.  The  crop  on  a  few 
acres  the  first  year  will  ray  for  the  Machine.  It  will  only  cost 
you  a  postal  card  to  send  for  an  Illustrated  Catalofrne,  pivinp 
price,  tprms  and  testimonials.     Address  the  Manufacturer« 

JAMES  M'LNE  &  SON, 

Breeders  of  Pure  Stietlatii  Ponies 

A  stock  of  these  Beautrful  and  Intelligent  Little 
Pets  for  children  kept  constantly  on  hand 
and  for  sale.     Correspondence  solicited. 

Write  for  our  pony  ca^logue  to 

MILNE  BROS., 

Monmouth,  111. 


45v^r^^y^icle 

-iSKetlaKcl 

PoKy  Fartrv 

Mo>\«T\outK,,  Illmoia.. 


Milne  Bros., 

Proprietors. 


BREAD 


77, 


BREAD. 

"Nature  has  meal  and  bran.'" — Cvmbeline. 


A  cook  can  not  acquire  a  more  valuable  accom- 
plishment than  that  of  making  good  bread.  Noth- 
ing but  experience  will  secure  the  name  merited 
by  so  few — ^'an  excellent  bread  maker."  The 
first  requisite  is  good  flour;  the  second,  good  yeast; 
the  third,  watchful  care.  There  is  force  in  the  old 
lament,  '*My  bread  took  cold  last  night,"  too 
much  heat  carries  forward  the  process  too  rapidly 
and  the  dough  will  become  sour.  Correct  this  by 
dissolving  a  little  soda  in  warm  water  and  working 
it  in  well.  The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  If  you 
•can  not  hold  your  bare  arm  in  it  while  you  count 
thirty,  it  is  too  quick.  Keep  the  heat  steady  after 
the  bread  goes  in.  The  time  for  baking  is  not  less 
than  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  bread  baked 
an  hour  is  more  wholesome, 

YEAST. 

Mrs.   Seth  Pratt. 

Three  pints  of  water,  six  large  potatoes.  When 
potatoes  are  done  take  the  potato  water  and  pour 
over  one  pint  of  flour,  then  add  one  tablespoon  of 
salt.  Mash  the  potatoes  thoroughly  and  mix  with 
the  flour,  and  thin  with  cold  water  until  cold 
enough  to  put  in  the  yeast.  Use  two  and  one-half 
cakes  of  Magic  yeast. 

BREAD. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Babcock. 

At  noon,  boil  one  large  potato  in  enough  water 
to  scald  one  cup   of   flour,    when  cool  enough  add 

Ask  your  grocer  for  Epicure^  N.   V.  CJieese. 


78  BREAD. 

one-half  cake  of  dry  yeast  dissolved.  At  night 
add  I  quart  of  warm  water  and  make  a  sponge, 
beating  well  ;  in  the  morning  add  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  melted  lard  and  salt,  and 
mix  till  smooth.  Let  rise,  knead  down,  let  rise 
again,  then  make  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake. 
To  save  out  three  or  four  tablespoons  of  the  scalded 
yeast,  before  making  sponge,  is  better  for  the  next 
baking  than  using  fresh  yeast. 

BREAD. 

Mrs.  Seth  Pratt. 

One  pint  of  yeast,  two  pints  of  warm  water,  one 
tablespoon  of  lard,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  mix 
into  dough,  let  it  rise,  mould,  let  rise  again  and 
then  mould  to  put  into  the  tins. 

BREAD, 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Walker. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
one  cup  of  butter,  half  cup  of  lard,  one  tablespoon 
of  salt,  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  half  cup  of  warm 
water,  one  pint  of  warm  water;  rub  thoroughly  to- 
gether flour,  sugar,  butter,  lard  and  salt,  then  add 
yeast  and  warm  water,  mould  into  one  large  loaf,. 
let  rise  over  night  then  mould  into  loaves,  let  rise 
until  light,  then  bake.  This  will  make  three  good 
sized  loaves. 

BREAD. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Wilson. 

(For  inexperienced  housekeepers. ) 

Save  the  water  in  which  your  potatoes  for  the 
noon  meal  were  cooked.  In  the  evening  take  three- 
pints  lukewarm  potato  water,  one  tablespoon  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  lard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  put  this  into 
a  crock  and  stir  in  nine  cups  of  flour  and  two-thirds 
cup  of  home-made  yeast,  or   its   equivalent  in  dry 

Milne  Bros. — Stump  Pullei\ 


BREAD.  79 

yeast.  (Ordinarily  this  amount  of  flour  is  right,  al- 
though some  flour  will  do  better  with  d. little  less.) 
Set  this  crock  of  sponge  in  flour  in  your  bread  pan, 
cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  morning. 
Then  use  the  warm  flour  and  mix  into  a  stiff  dough, 
make  it  stiff  enough  so  you  will  not  need  to  add 
more  flour  to  knead  well  afterward  ;  set  in  a  warm 
place  until  light,  then  knead  thoroughly  once  and 
set  to  rise  again,  when  light  divide  into  four  equal 
parts  and  make  four  loaves,  or  three  loaves  and 
one  pan  of  rolls;  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  when 
light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.      Divide  the  recipe  for  small  baking. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 
Mrs.  J.  C.  Dnnbar. 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  with  two  and  a  half  tea- 
spoons of  Chapman  &  Smith's  Chicago  Yeast 
Powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  two  teaspoons  of 
white  sugar,  mix  all  thoroughly  with  the  flour, 
sifting  several  times  together,  rub  in  one  level 
tablespoon  of  butter,  wet  with  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  handle  lightly  and  cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter, 
about  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  15 
minutes.  Water  may  be  used  instead  of  milk  if 
more  butter  is  added.  Handle  as  little  and  make 
as  rapidly  as  possible. 

CREAM  BISCUIT. 
B.  s. 
Sift  together  two  or  three  times  one  quart  of 
flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  Chapman  & 
Smith's  Chicago  Yeast  Powder,  work  in  one  table- 
spoon of  butter  or  lard,  and  half  a  tablespoon  of 
salt,  add  one  teacup  of  cream,  and  beat  to  a  soft 
dough,  roll  to  the  thickness  of  three-fourths  of  an 
inch,  cut  out  and  bake  immediately. 

Sinclair  Meat  Co. ,  Peoria,  Breakfast  Bacon. 


8o  BREAD. 

DIXIE  BISCUIT, 
s. 

Three  pints  of   flour,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons 

of  lard,  one  cake  compressed  yeast,  one  cup  milk, 

mix  at  1 1  o'clock  roll  out  at  4  o'clock,  and  cut  with 

two  sizes  of  cutters,  putting  the  small  ones  on  top, 

let  rise  until  supper,  bake  twenty  minutes. 

MUFFINS. 
Dissolve  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  a  cup 
of  warm  milk,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
quart  of  lukewarm  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  two  eggs,  and  flour  to  make  batter 
stiff  enough  to  drop,  mix  at  night,  bake  in  muffin 
rings.      Makes  three  dozen. 

BUNS. 
One  pint  of  milk,  one-half  cake  compressed  yeast, 
one  quart  of  flour — stir  this  well,  let  it  rise  for 
three  hours,  then  add  half  cup  of  butter,  rubbed 
to  a  cream  with  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
one  well  beaten  Ggg,  add  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
knead  briskly;  let  rise  until  very  light,  then  make 
dough  into  buns,  quite  small  ;  set  them  close  to- 
gether on  tins  and  let  them  rise;  when  all  of  a 
sponge,  brush  the  tops  with  a  little  milk  and  sugar 
mixed;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

SALLY  LUNN. 
One  pint  potato  sponge,  one-half  cup  milk,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  large  cooking  spoon  butter, 
yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  mix  butter  and  sugar  together, 
add  yolks,  salt  and  milk,  mix  well,  and  add  sponge 
with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  If  wanted 
for  tea,  set  at  11  a.  m.,  let  rise  until  i  o'clock, 
knead  again,  adding  flour  until  it  does  not  stick  to 

Sinclair  Meat  Co. ,  Peoria,  Pure  Lard. 


BREAD.  8i 

the  board,  let  rise  until  4  o'clock,  roll  out  in  two 
sheets,  butter  one  and  lay  the  other  on  top,  cut  out 
with  biscuit  cutter,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
■oven. 

SPLIT  ROLLS. 
Gne-half  pint  boiling  milk,  one  pint  potato 
sponge,  one  tablespoon  lard  aud  one  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  one  quart  of  flour  in  a  bowl 
and  add  to  it  sugar,  salt  and  lard,  mix  thoroughly 
and  let  cool,  then  add  potato  sponge  and  beat  well. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  work  in 
flour  until  it  does  not  stick.  Let  rise  again,  roll 
out,  butter,  and  cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter,  double 
•over  and  pinch  together.  Do  not  let  them  touch 
in  the  pan.  Let  rise  again  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


CHICAGO  YEAST  POWDER 


IS    GUARANTtED    HIGHFST    CUALITY, 
J\^0    COSTS    LESS    THAN    ANY    OTHER. 


REAL  SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD. 
Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one- 
half  pound  of  sugar  ;  mix  to  a  smooth  paste,  half 
an  inch  thick  when  rolled,  pinch  edges,  prick  the 
top  with  a  fork,  cut  in  small  squares,  invert  drip- 
ping pan,  cover  with  paper,  put  cakes  on  and  bake 
in   a  slow  oven. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BROWN  BREAD. 
Ml"s.  N.  C    Burlingim. 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  one  cup  flour,  two-thirds  cup 
Orleans  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  tablespoon  lard  or  butter,  one  pint  warm  water 
(not  scalding.)  Put  the  meal  in  a  dish  with 
the  molasses  and  salt,  add  the  warm  water, 
mixing  thoroughly.  Set  in  a  warm  place  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  the  soda  dissolved  in 
one-eighth  cup  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  in   the   flour.      Steam   six  hours. 


82  BREAD. 

STEAMED   GRAHAM    BREAD. 
Mrs.  I.  L.  Moses. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  one  of  molasses,  one  of 
Graham  flour,  one  of  white  flour,  one  of  corn  meal, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  of  soda.  This  makes 
six  loaves,  using  quart  moulds.  Fill  moulds  half 
full,  cover  and  steam  three  hours,  remove  to  the 
ov^en   and  brown  lightly. 

CORN   BREAD. 
M.  A.  Kinkead. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  of  meal,  one  of  flour^ 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  milk,  one 
tablespoon  lard,  one  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Stir  thoroughly. 
Bake  in   a  hot  oven. 

CORN    BREAD. 

Mabel  Pillsbury. 

One  cup  corn  meal,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  one 
egg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  sweet 
cream  or  piece  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar^ 
and  one-half  teaspoon  soda. 

STEAMED   BROWN  BREAD. 
J.  M.  Holt. 

One  cup  corn  meal,  two  cups  Graham  flour,  one 
cup  molasses,  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  sour  milk  to  make  batter  like  cake.  Stea  m 
two  or  three  hours,  and  brown  in  the  oven  fifteen 
minutes. 

SOFT  CORN  BREAD. 
Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Rankin. 

Half  pint  corn  meal,  half  pint  sour  milk,  half 
pint  sweet  milk,  tablespoon  melted  butter,  pinch 
of  salt,  two  well  beaten  eggs.    Bake  in  a  deep  dish. 

Ask  yoar  grocer  foi'  Penn  Van    ''ist  prize'  Buck- 
zuheat  Flour. 


BREAD.  83 

FEDERAL  BREAD. 
Belle  F.   Rankin. 

Two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teacup  of 
sweet  cream,  one  teacup  yeast,  and  flour  enough 
for  a  soft  dough.  When  risen  light,  roll  out  in 
layers  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  placing  two 
in  each  pie  pan  (this  quantity  wi^l  make  three  pans 
full);  let  them  rise  again  and  bake.  When  done, 
butter  between  the  layers,  cut  in  pie  shaped  pieces,, 
and  serve  hot. 

CORN    BREAD. 
Mrs_  A.  H.   Dean. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three-fourths 
cup  corn  meal,  one  pint  flour. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 
Mrs.  San   DeLong. 

Scald  one  heaping  tablespoon  corn  meal  with 
two  tablespoons  of  new  milk.  Let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  take  two-thirds  of  cup  new  milk, 
one  cup  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  flour 
enough  to  make  sponge.  Add  corn  meal,  stir  well, 
put  in  warm  place  to  rise.  When  very  light  add 
one  cup  milk,  one  quart  hot  water,  one  teaspoon 
salt.  Put  all  together,  knead  thoroughly,  but  not 
as  stiff  as  for  yeast  bread.  Place  in  pans.  When 
light  bake  in  moderate  oven  one-half  hour.  Care 
should  be  taken  not  to  use  too  hot  water.  Bread 
must  be  kept   warm  until  ready  for  oven. 

AN    EASY  WAY  TO  MAKE  BREAD. 
Mrs.  E.   C.  Johnson. 

Dissolve  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  three 
pints  of  warm  water,  add  a  little  salt,  then  stir 
flour  in  gradually  until    it  is  too  stiff  to  work   with 

Ask  your  grocer  for  Genes  sec   Table  Salt. 


84  BREAD. 

a  spoon,  then  use  hands,  kneading  it  and  adding 
flour  until  it  is  a  stiff  dough;  use  spoon  to  stir  the 
flour  in  as  long  as  possible;  knead  thoroughly  for 
half  an  hour.  Let  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place, 
then  in  the  morning  make  into  loaves,  let  rise  one 
hour,  bake  one  hour.  This  will  make  about  five 
loaves.  Bread  made  this  way  is  out  of  the  oven 
by  9  o'clock  in  the  summer  time. 

COLD  WATER   BISCUIT. 

Belle  F.  Rankin. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  lard,  One 
teaspoon  salt,  mix  up  with  enough  cold  water  to 
make  a  stiff  dough,  beat  it  with  a  hatchet  until  it 
blisters,  then  roll  into  little  balls,  (as  for  rolls,) 
flatten  with  a  rolling  pin,  stick  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  Oven  until  a  light  brown  (about  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes.)  This  quantity  makes 
about  thirty-two  biscuits. 

EASY  AND  SURE  WAY  TO  MAKE  GOOD  BREAD. 
Mrs.  Mira  L.   ]\Iiller. 

First  make  the  following  yeast,  which  will  make 
from  twenty-four  to  thirty  loaves  of  bread,  and 
will  keep  two  or  three  weeks  in  a  cool  cellar  in  the 
summer:  Pare  and  boil  six  large  potatoes,  when 
done  add  enough  water  to  make  three  pints  with 
which  scald  one  pint  of  flour,  stir  in  mashed  pota- 
toes, add  tablespoon  of  salt  and  water  to  make  as 
thin  as  batter  cakes — have  warm  as  you  can  hold 
your  hand  in— add  two  cakes  of  Yeast  Foam  which 
have  been  soaked  in  lukewarm  water  several  hours; 
keep  in  warm  place  until  fermentation  ceases — 
about  ten  or  twelve  hours. 

To  make  bread. — In  the  morning  put  one  quart 
of  water,  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  your  hand  in, 
into  flour,  add  one  tablespoon   of   lard,   two    scant 

See  M or  roll  &  Cos  ad.  on  page  4.8. 


BREAD.  85 

tablespoons  sugar,  and  One-half  teaspoon  salt,  and 
one  pint  of  the  yeast;  knead  well  and  put  in  warm 
place,  when  light  knead  again,  when  light,  again, 
make  in  four  loaves  and  put  in  pans.  Your  bread 
should  be  baked  before  noon  in  winter,  earlier  in 
summer.  A  two  gallon  jar  heated  and  greased  is 
the  best  to  put  bread  in  to  raise. 

OCEAN  GROVE  CORN  BREAD. 
Mrs.  Duke. 

One  cup  of  butter,  four  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
sugar,  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  four  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  One  pint  sweet  milk,  one  pint  of 
corn  meal   and  one  quart  flour. 

GERMAN  WAFFLES. 
Mrs.  H.  Warner. 

One-half  pound  butter  beat  to  a  cream,  then  add 
the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  sugar  enough  to  sweeten 
to  your  taste.  Stir  this  like  pound  cake,  then  add 
one  cup  of  milk,  some  blanched  ground  almonds, 
and  a  teaspoon  of  almond  flavoring,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  and  enough  flour  to  make  it  stiff 
as  pancake  batter;  last  of  all  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  waffle  irons,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  before  sending  to  table. 


Montgomery — Dry  Goods. 


86  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 


'Allow  not  nature  more  than  nature  ueeds.'' — J^ing  Lea?- 


PUFF   PASTE. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  flour  and  butter,  befoi'e 
mixing  wash  the  butter  thoroughly,  then  lay  in  ice 
water,  take  the  flour,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
for  each  pound  of  flour,  mix  into  a  stiff,  smooth 
paste,  using  ice  water  for  mixing,  allow  the  dough 
to  lie  five  minutes,  after  which  roll  large  enough 
to  work  in  butter,  fold  twice  so  it  will  be  four 
thicknesses,  repeat  five  times,  leaving  the  paste 
about  ten  minutes  each  time,  then  work  paste  in 
desired  form,  a  cool  place  is  desirable  for  making 
paste. 

•    '    PIE  CRUST. 

Three  cups  of  flour  to  one  of  lard  makes  three 
pies.  Rub  lard  lightly  in  flour:  salt.  Pour  in 
enough  ice  water  to  roll  out:  mix  lightly  with  a 
knife.  For  lemon,  chocolate  and  all  pies  of  that 
character,  bake  the  crust  first,  prick  lightly  with 
a  fork  to  prevent  blistering,  then  add  the  custard, 
already  prepared  by  coo  king  in  double  boiler.  Thi  s 
is  much  better  than  where  the  custard  is  baked  in 
the  pie. 

GOOD  PIE  CRUST. 

A  quart  of  flour  will  make  four  pies.  Sift  the 
flour  with  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  rub  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard  or  butter,  then  moisten 
with  ice  water,  using  as  little  as  will  make  the 
flour  stick  together.  Do  not  work  it  with  warm 
hands. 

Wi'ight  &  Grahafu  Artistic  Tailors. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  87 

APPLE  PIE. 

Peel  and  slice  three  apples,  put  in  the  crust;  pour 
on  a  half  teacup  of  water,  a  teacup  of  sugar  mixed 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  a  small  piece  of  butter 
and  nutmeg  grated. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

One  pint  of  sour  apples  cooked  smooth  and 
sifted,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  six 
eggs  beaten  separately;  the  whites  for  frosting 
the  top;  season  with  mace  and  cinnamon.  This 
makes  five  pies. 

BLACKBERRY  PIE. 

One  pint  of  berries,  one  teacup  of  sugar  mixed 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  prevent  the  juice 
from  boiling  out;  water  if  necessary. 

CHESS  PIE. 
Julia    Clark. 

Three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  half  cup  but- 
ter, half  cup  mlik.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
yolks  and  sugar  beaten  to  a  froth,  with  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Stir  together  rapidly  and  bake  in 
a  nice  crust.  When  done  spread  with  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Keturn  to  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

CREAM  PIE. 
Miss  Minnie  Babcock. 

One  pint  cream,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch 
mixed  smooth  in  a  little  of  the  cream,  sugar  to 
taste,  vanilla;  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten 
added  to  mixture  when  just  ready  for  oven.  Bake 
slowly  and  serve  very  cold. 

CREAM    PIE. 

Ruth  Ray. 

Lay  in  a  pie  plate  a  crust  as  for  custard  pie. 
Stir  to  a  cream  half  a  cup  of   sugar  and  one  table- 

Genuine  N.  O.  Molasses  at  IV.  J.  Pattcrsoiis. 


88  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

spoon  butter.  Add  the  yellow  of  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  flour  and  two  cups  of  milk.  Mix  all 
together  and  flavor  with  lemon.  When  done  beat 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoons  of  su- 
gar.     Spread  over  pie.      Return  to  oven  to  brown. 

CRE\M  PIE. 

Mrs.  Henry  Ewing. 

One  cup  of   sugar,    three  tablespoons    of    flour, 
three  eggs,  butter   size  of  an    egg,  one  and  a  half 
teacup  new  milk,  one  and  a  half  teacup  new  cream, 
flour,  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract.      This  receipt 
makes  two  pies. 

CREAM  PIE. 
Mrs.  Ida  Weir. 

One  egg,  half  cup  cream,    half  cup   milk,  half 

cup  sugar,  nutmeg  to  taste,  one   tablespoon  corn 

starch:  let  the  milk  and  cream  come   to   the  boil, 

then  add  the  egg,  sugar  and  corn  starch:  then, 
place  in  baked  crust  and  frost. 

CREAM  PIE. 
Sadie  Neville. 

One  and  one -half  cups  powdered  sugar,  one  ta- 
blespoon flour,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  one  pint 
cream.  Stir  together.  Beat  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  this  to  the  cream,  beat- 
ing well.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  This  makes 
enough  filling  for  two  pies. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Hanna. 

Take  four  eggs  (leaving  out  the  whites  of  two). 
one  cup  sugar,  half  cup  flour,  a  little  salt:  mix 
these  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into 
one  quart  of  boiling  milk:  simmer  slowly  until 
thick,  stirring  all  the  time:  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon;  pour  this  into  newly  baked  crust  and   bake 

' '  T/iej  call  for  dates   and  quinces  in    the  pastry. " 

— Romeo  and  Juliet, 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  •  89 

five  minutes.  Beat  the  two  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  half  cup  of  sugar:  spread  over  top 
and  brown  lightly. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Wolf. 

•of  four  eggs,  one  cup  cocoanut  (pre- 
paig/l),  one  cup  sugar,  ore  quart  new  milk,  pinch 
of  salt,  four  tablespoons  flour.  Put  milk  on  stove, 
let  come  to  a  boil:  add  cocoanut  and  sugar;  mix 
flour  thoroughly  with  cold  milk,  then  add  to  boil- 
ing milk:  lastly  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  gently. 
Bake  the  crust  before  putting  the  mixture  in. 
Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  add  eight  teaspoons 
pulverized  sugar,  vanilla  flavoring:  spread  over 
the  top  and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut:  place  in  oven 
and  brown  delicately.     This  makes  two  pies. 


^'ROLLING-PiN" 


CLEANCO   CURRANTS   ARE   READY   FOR    INSTANT   USE. 

NO  WASHING  OR  CLEANING  REQUIRED. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 
Mrs.  Ida  Weir. 

One  pint  milk,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  cocoa- 
nut,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  tables^Doons  flour; 
cook  until  thick,  then  add  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
pour  into  the  crust,  which  has  been  previously 
baked.  Frost  with  whites  of  two  eggs  and  place 
in  oven  to  brown. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  cuj)  of  cocoanut, 
whites  of  two  eggs,  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  flour  enough  to  thicken.  Put  the 
milk,  cocoanut  and  butter  in  a  dish  placed  in  an- 
other one  filled  with  water  to  boil.  Rub  flour  and 
sugar  togettier  with  a  little  milk  and  add  to  boil- 
ing milk.  When  thick  add  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Make  a  rich  puff  paste; 
when  this  is  cool,  jDOur  in  the  filling.  Spread  over 
the  pie  the    whites    of    two    eggs,    well    beaten. 


90  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS, 


Sprinkle  half  cup  cocoanut  and  two  tablesjioons  of 
sugar  over  the  top.     Place  in  oven  to  browii. 

COCOANUT   CREAM  PIE. 
Mrs.  H.  F.  Eaton. 

One  i3int  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  four  tables23oons  flour,  whites  four  eggs, 
one  cup  prepared  C(x:oanut.  pinch  of  salt.  vScald 
the  piat  of  milk  over  steam;  add  sugar,  cocoanut 
and  butter,  then  the  flour  and  salt  which  have 
been  mixed  with  cold  milk,  and  lastly  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs:  stir  gently.  Bake  crust  after 
prickiiig  with  a  fork.  When  both  are  cold  spread 
the  mixture  over  crust.  Then  beat  whites  of  four 
eggs,  add  eight  teaspoons  pulverized  sugar: 
spread  this  over  top  and  lastly  sprinkle  one-fourth 
cup  cocoanut  over  top.  and  brown  lightly.  This 
makes  two  pies.  If  fresh  cocoanut  is  used  half  of 
one  is  e.iough.  It  will  then  be  necessary  to  use  a 
little  sugar  with  that  S2)riukled  over  top. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 
Mrs.  W.  J   McQuiston. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  large  tablespoons 
grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  of  flour,  two-thirds 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  very  little 
butter:  set  on  the  stove  till  it  thickens;  flavor  with 
vanilla;  bake  with  an  under  crust;  beat  the  w^hites, 
add  two  teaspoons  of  sugar:  spread  on  the  pie  and 
brown  slightly.     Serve  cold. 

LEMON  PIE. 
Mrs.  R.  A.  Wilson. 

One  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  one  coffee  cup  water, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  very  heaping  tablespoons 
of  flour.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together  and 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  juice  of 
the  lemon  with  a  very  little  of  the  grated  rind, 
then  add  the  cup  of  cold  water.     Put   this  into   a 

* '  Wishers  were  ever  fools. " — A  nthony  and  Cleopatra. 


.PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  91 

i:ice  boiler  and  cook  until  it  looks  clear  and  thick; 
put  into  the  crust  which  has  been  baked.  Make  a 
meringue  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  one  or  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  little  vanilla,  and  put 
on  the  top  of  the  pie  and  brown  slightly  in  the 
oven. 

LEMON  PIE. 
Mrs.  Henry  H.  Pattee  and  Mrs.  J.  Shultz. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  water,  one  lemon,  one 
tablespoon  corn  starch,  two  eggs  (leaving  white 
of  one  for  the  meringue).  Boil  sugar  and  water 
until  dissolved,  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon, 
beaten  eggs  and  corn  starch  mixed  smooth  with 
little  cold  water;  cook  until  it  thickens;  do  not 
.scorch;  pour  into  a  pan  lined  with  rich  paste  and 
previously  baked;  return  to  the  oven  and  bake  un- 
til firm ;  beat  wiiite  of  egg  stiff,  add  tablespoon 
sugar,  spread  over  top  and  set  in  the  ovea  for  a 
few  minutes. 

^  LEMON    PIE. 
i.  Ida  Parrot. 

Three  lemons,  three  spoons  butter,  four  eggs,  one 
cup  sugar.  Grate  rinds  and  use  juice.  Melt  but- 
ter. Stir  all  together  and  bake  with  under  crust. 
P>ost  with  whites  of  four  eggs,  sweetening  with 
four  tablespoons  sugar.  Brown  delicately.  Suffi- 
xcient  for  two  pies. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

One  teacup  of  water,  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
-of  one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  yellow  of  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoons  of  flour,  butter  size  of  walnut. 
Put  water  in  double  boiler,  and  place  on  stove. 
Add  one-half  sugar  to  water.  Beat  the  eggs  with 
the  other  half  cup  sugar.  Add  butter  and  lemon, 
then  thicken  with  the  flour.      Let  boil  fifteen  min- 


'///  d/ozus  the  ivind  tJiat profits  nobody. " — Henry  IV. 


92  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

utes,     stirring    all    the    time.      Have   crust    baked. 
Pour    in    fillingr   when    cool.      Beat   whites   of   two- 
eggs  and   spread  over  top,  and    sprinkle   with  two- 
tablespoons  of  sugar.      Place  in  oven  to  brown. 

TWO  CRUST  LEMON  PIE. 
Mrs.  M.  L.  Dougherty. 

Three  lemons  for  two  pies.  Two  cups  of  boil- 
ing water,  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  one  cui> 
of  sugar,  three  eggs. 

LEMON    CUSTARD   PIE. 
Mi-s.  D.  TurnbuU. 

Two  lemons  grated,  two  coffee  cups  boiling- 
water,  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  corn  starch, 
two  coffee  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Put 
the  corn  starch,  sugar  and  water  on  the  fire  and 
let  it  remain  until  it  becomes  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly, then  iiour  it  on  the  eggs  and  lemons.  Will 
make  three  small  pies  or  two  large  ones. 

MINCE    MEAT. 
Ida  Armsby. 

Four  pounds  meat,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
suet.  As  much  apple  as  both  suet  and  meat, 
three  pounds  raisins,  one  pound  citron,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  figs,  two  nutmegs,  ten  cts.  of  cin- 
namon, five  cts.  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
four  pints  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  four  pints  C 
sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
two  and  one-half  quarts  boiled  cider,  two  table- 
spoons salt.      Boil  one  hour. 

MINCE    MEAT. 
Mrs.  H.  M.  Graham. 

Three  bowls  chopped  meat,  five  of  chopped  ap- 
ples, five  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  shredded  suet,  two 
of  seeded  raisins,  one  of  Orleans  molasses,  one  of 

•''To  whom  God  zvill,  there  be  the  victory .'' 

—Hejiry  VI. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  93 

vinegar,  one  of  fruit  syrup  or  jelly,  one  of  cider, 
one  of  chopped  citron,  three  tablespoons  cinnamon, 
two  tablespoons  cloves,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  pepper,  five  nutmegs,  grated.  Mix  all 
together.  Put  in  granite  kettle.  Set  on  the  stove, 
heat  through  thoroughly,  then  set  away  for  use. 
For  measurement  use  pint  bowl. 

TOMATO  MINCE  FOR  PIES. 
Mrs.  Sarah  Ruse. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes.  Five  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  tablespoon  of 
cloves,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon 
allspice,  one  tablespoon  nutmeg.  Chop  the  toma- 
toes fine  and  cook  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  add 
the  sugar  and  spice,  with  one  lemon  and  half  a  cup 
of  vinegar,  and  the  raisins  chopped  fine.  Use  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  half  a  one  of  pepper,  and  cook 
half  an  hour.  This  will  keep  in  an  open  jar  all 
winter.       Delicious. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 
Mrs.  San  DeLong. 

Six  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  cup  hot  water,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  vine- 
gar, half  cup  melted  butter,  one  cup  chopped 
raisins,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  nutmeg.  Measure  in  coffee  cup.  The 
above  will  make  four  pies. 
« 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

For  two  large  pies.  Four  crackers,  one  cup 
molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter  or 
-chopped  salt  pork,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  of 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  one  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Exercise,  sun  and  air  zvill  give  good  appetite 
and  sonnd  sleep. 


94  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

ORANGE  PIE. 
M-JS.  Jennie  Hawley. 

One  orange,  one  small  cup  sugar,  one  small  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one 
teaspoon  butter.  Grate  the  orange  and  mix  with 
sugar,  butter,  yolks  of  eggs  and  flour;  beat  thor- 
oughly, add  milk,  and  bake  with  one  crust.  Beat 
the  white  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  to 
make  quite  sweet,  and  when  the  pie  is  done,  spread 
the  frosting  smoothly  on  top,  return  to  oven  and 
let  remain  until  a  light  brown.  Try  this  once  and 
you   will  try  it  again. 

TUF     Mfl^T     nPIIPATP      FLAVORS  ARE  OBTAINED  FROM 

inc  muoi    ucLiUHii.  Chicago  flavoring  extracts. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 
M-B.  S. 
Select  deep  yellow  pumpkin,  fine  grained.  Pare 
and  cook  slowly.  When  soft,  and  the  water  all 
boiled  off,  mash  and  set  back  on  the  stove  where 
it  can  simmer  until  the  pumpkin  becomes  brown 
and  waxy.  Put  through  a  colander,  and  to  scant 
three  pints  of  the  pumpkin  add  eight  well-beaterk 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  mace,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon^ 
one  teaspoon  ginger,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  little  salt,, 
two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  and  two  quarts  of  good 
sweet  milk.  Bake  slowly  until  a  nice  golder^ 
brown.      Prepare  the  pumpkin  the  day  before. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 
Mrs.  W   A.  Robison. 

In  preparing  the  pumpkin,  cook  from  six  to  eight 
hours.  To  one  pint  of  pumpkin  take  two  eggs,, 
one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  saltspoon  salt^ 
the  same  of  pepper,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one- 
half  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  one  pint  good 
sweet  milk.      Delicious. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  95 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 
M.    B.  S. 

Use  either  fresh  or  canned  pineapples,  grated. 
Sweeten  to  taste.  Small  piece  of  butter.  Bake 
with  one  crust,  with  strips  over  top. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 
Mrs.  Chas.  Collins. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sweet  cream,  five  eggs,  one  pineapple  grated. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  the  pineapple  and  cream,  and 
lastly  the  beaten  whites,  whipped  in  lightly.  Bake 
with  under  crust. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 
Ruth  Ray. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  two  teacups  of  chopped 
rhubarb.  Drain  off  the  water  after  four  or  five 
minutes,  and  mix  with  the  rhubarb  one  teacup 
of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  walnut,  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Moistening 
the  whole  with  three  tablespoons  of  water.  Bake 
with  a  lower  crust  only.  When  done  beat  th5 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Spread  over  top  and  return  to  oven. 

SQUASH   PIE 
Mrs.  H.  Burlingini. 

Squash  one  large  pint,  sugar  two  cups,  milk  one' 
quart,  butter  two  tablespoons,  cracker  three  table- 
spoons, eggs  four,  ginger  one  teaspoon,  extract  of 
lemon  one  teaspoon,  salt  one  teaspoon.  Peel  the 
squash,  steam  it  soft,  and  strain  it.  To  a  large 
pint,  add  sugar,  spice,  salt  and  cracker  crumbs, 
the  latter  rolled  fine.  Boil  the  milk,  and  melt  the 
butter  in  it.      Pour  this  gradually  over  the  squash, 

'  'I/i  a  false  quarrel  there  is  no  true  valour. " 

— Mueh  Ado  About  Nothing. 


96  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

stirring  all  the  time.  When  thoroughly-  mixed  add 
the  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  deep  plates,  with 
a  nice  under  crust.      Excellent. 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 
Mrs.  F.  P.   Gilbert. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  Ggg,  half  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups 
flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  Chapman  &  Smith's 
Chicago  Yeast  Powder,  nutmeg  to  taste.  Bake  in 
two  layers  in  quick  oven.  Filling — Into  one  pint 
of  boiling  milk  stir  the  following:  One  tablespoon 
corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  half  cup  sugar.  After  this  is  cooked  thorough- 
ly, beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir 
into  the  cream  while  cream  is  still  hot.  Flavor 
with  lemon.  Spread  between  layers  of  cake  and 
serve  fresh.     This  makes  a  very  nice  dinner  dessert. 


PUDDINGS. 


APPLE    PUDDING. 

Mrs.  J.  Shultz. 

Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  sliced  apples, 
and  pour  over  the  top  a  batter  made  of  one  table- 
#*f{>^on  of  butter,  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  Ggg,  half 
cup  sweet  milKTand  one  cup  of  flour  in  which  has 
been  sifted  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Serv^e  with  sugar  and  cream. 
Use  peaches  the  same  way. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 
Mrs   J.  B.  Herbert. 

Pare,    core   and    quarter    good    cooking    apples; 
have  ready  well  buttered  cups;   take  one  pint  flour, 

'  'He  tJiat  is  proud,  cats  up  Jiinisclf. " 

—  Troilus  and  C  res  si  da. 


PIEb  AND  PUDDINGS.  97 

two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  and 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter;  put  in  each 
cup  a  spoonful  of  batter,  add  prepared  apples, 
cover  with  batter,  and  steam  until  fruit  is  thorough- 
ly cooked.      Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA. 
Mrs.  Geo.Babcock. 

Soak  one  cup  tapioca  in  one  quart  water  over  night 
pare  and  slice  a  dish  of  apples,  adding  a  little 
water  and  sugar.  Bake.  When  nearly  done,  pour 
tapioca  over  apples  and  return  to  oven.  Cook 
until  it  jellies.      Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

A  DELICATE  DESSERT. 

Mrs.   Mary  Pillsbury. 

Bake  a  sponge  cake.  Have  it  two  inches  deep 
when  done.  Over  this  pour  boiled  custard.  Just 
before  serving  slice  some  peaches  and  put  over  the 
cake.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and 
put  over  the  top.  For  custard  use  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  and  whites  for  the  top.  Oranges  maybe 
used  instead  of  peaches. 

BOILED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Mrs,  Sarah  K.  Miller. 

Pare  and  core  six  apples,  put  them  in  a  stew 
pan  with  water  enough  to  half  cover  them,  add 
one  teacup  of  sugar  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
a  pinch  of  salt;  boil  until  the  underside  of  the  apple 
is  tender,  then  turn  them  over,  thicken  with  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  in  cold  water;  essence  to 
suit. 

BREAD  PUDDING 
Mrs.  J    R     Hickman. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  molasses,  one  of 
raisins  (seeded),  one  of  water,  one  of  flour,  one  egg, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda;   steam  two  hours. 


[/sc  Maple  City  Toilet  Soaps. 


98  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

BANANAS  IN  SYRUP 
Mrs.  Jas.  French, 

Heat  in  a  porcelain  kettle  a  pint  of  currant  and 
red  raspberry  juice,  equal  parts,  sweetened  to  taste. 
When  boiIing,drop  into  it  a  dozen  peeled  bananas  ^ 
simmer  them  very  gently  for  twenty  minutes;  re- 
move the  bananas,  boil  the  juice  until  thickened  to 
the  consistency  of  syrup,  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Serve  cold. 

BANANA    SNOW. 
Mrs.  Eliza  Smith. 

Soak  two-thirds  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup 
of  cold  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  pour  over  this 
one  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  a  heaping  cup  of 
sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  stir  well,  when  cold 
and  begining  to  thicken  add  whites  of  three  well 
beaten  eggs;  beat  all  together  until  stiff  and  white 
(about  one  hour.)  Peel, cut  in  thin  slices  eight  large 
bananas  and  stir  into  the  snow.  Dip  molds  into 
cold  water,  fill  with  the  snow,  set  on  ice  to  harden. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  custard  made  of  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  one  pint  milk  and  half  cup  sugar. 

BAKED  APPLES. 
Mrs.  Mary  A.   Frantz. 

Cut  apples  in  halves,  take  out  cores,  set  in  bak- 
ing pan  with  the  cored  side  up.  For  seven  or 
eight  tart  apples  use  3  cups  sugar,  i^  cups  water, 
set  on  top  of  stove,  cover  closely  and  let  boil  half 
an  hour,  remove  cover  and  place  in  oven,  an  bake 
until  brown  as  desired. 

CURRANT  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Fred  Patterson 

One  Q^^,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
butter,    three-fourths  cup   sweet    milk,  one  cup  of 

"  Goodivords  arc  better  than  bad  strokes.'' 

— J ti  litis  Ccesar^ 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  gg 

currants,  two  tablespoons  bakinj^  powder,  a  little 
salt.  Put  in  enough  flour  to  make  it  a  stiff  batter. 
Steam  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot.  Sauce  for  pud- 
ding-— Beat  one  egg  until  light,  then  add  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoon  butter.  Place  this  on  the  stove,  let  it 
stand  until  hot,  then  remove  from  stove  and  flavor 
with  vanilla  extract. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Draper  Babcock. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  two  teaspoons  Chapman  & 
Smith's  Chicago  yeast  powder,two  cups  flour, steam 
two  and  one-half  hours. 

Sauce  for  same. — One  pint  water  in  a  basin, 
three  tablespoons  sugar  and  a  little  salt,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add 
thickening— flour  and  water  mixed  very  smooth. 
Strain  the  same  if  there  are  any  lumps  of  flour,  it 
should  be  about  as  thick  as  crearh.  F'lavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 
One  quart  milk  in  which  scald  nine  tablespoons 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  five  tablespoons  choco- 
late. Then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  sea- 
son with  vanilla.  Bake  one-half  hour.  Then  put 
the  whites,  well  beaten,  over  the  top,  w^ith  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  l^t  stand  in  the  oven 
until   a   light   brown. 

COCOVNUT  AND  CORN  ST\RCH   BLANC   MANGE 
Mrs    Jas    French. 

Simmer  two  tablespoons  of  prepared  cocoanut  in 
a    pint     of    milk    for    twenty    minutes    and     strain 


Chapman  &  SinitJis  Extracts  arc  delicious  in  Pics, 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 


through  a  fine  sieve.  If  necessary,  add  more  cold  milk 
to  make  a  full  pint.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
heat  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  gradually  two  table- 
spoons of  corn  starch,  rub  smooth  in  a  very  little 
cold  milk;  cook  five  minutes,  turn  into  cups  and 
serve  cold  with  fruit  sauce  or  cream. 

DIPLOMATIC  PUDDING. 
Hannah  Tilson. 

Dissolve  one  box  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  (it  will  take  about  one  hour.)  For  lemon 
syrup  use  one  cup  of  water,  half  cup  lemon  juice, 
two  cups  sugar — warm  until  sugar  is  melted.  For 
orange  sponge,  use  one  cup  of  orange  juice,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten,  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Divide  the  gelatine  about 
equal  parts.  Pour  the  syrup  into  one-half  gelatine 
and  the  sponge  in  the  other  half.  Mould  the  syrup 
placing  in  a  large  mould,  stand  a  smaller  mould  in 
the  middle  of  it,  fill  the  small  mould  with  cold 
water  until  the  syrup  is  solid,  then  remove  the 
small  mould  and  fill  the  cavity  with  sponge  and 
let  cool. 


ly^pypOY  RFriPF   ^^^^^  baking  powder  is  required 


USE    CHICAGO    YEAST    POWDER. 


DANDY  PUDDING. 
Ml-'.  H.  P.  Smith. 

One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  ;  put 
the  milk  on  to  boil  ;  moisten  the  corn  starch  with 
a 'ittle  cold  milk,  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk;  stir 
and  boil  five  minutes;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together  until  light,  and  add  to  the  boil- 
ing milk;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  flavoring,  and 
pour  into  a  baking  dish;  beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  d  very  stiff  froth,  add  to  them  two  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  and  heap  on  the  top  of  the 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 


pudding;   put  it  in  the  oven  tor  a  few  minutes  until 
a  light  brown.      Serve  ice  cold. 

DAINTY  PUDDING. 

E.  Tucker,  Chicago.  111. 

Take  two  ounces  of  citron,  and  one  orange. 
Grate  two  large  cups  of  stale  bread,  and  soften  it 
with  a  cupful  of  water.  Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze 
the  juice  of  the  orange,  cut  the  citron  in  small  bits 
and  mix  them -with  the  bread,  together  with  the 
\olks  of  two  or  three  eggs,  and  sugar  enough  to 
sweeten  the  mixture.  Butter  six  small  cups. 
Just  before  putting  the  pudding  in  the  oven,  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  quickly  mix 
them  with  the  bread  and  fruit,  distribute  them  in 
the  buttered  cups  and  bake  the  little  puddings 
slowly  for  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  they  are 
brown.  They  are  to  be  served  hot  and  with  cream 
sauce. 

DELMONICO. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Shultz. 

Yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light  ;  then  add 
one  coffee  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-third  of  a 
vanilla  bean  steeped  in  half  pint  cream.  (Do  not 
boil.)  One-half  box  Cox's  gelatine  in  half  teacup 
warm  water,  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved  ;  then 
add  the  warm  cream  to  the  gelatine  and  stir  the 
eggs  and  sugar  into  this;  whip  one  quart  of  ]rich 
cream,  and  stir  into  the  other  ingredients.  Freezer 
should  be  all  prepared  first,  as  gelatine  is  apt  to 
congeal  if  not  frozen  quickly.  This  quantity  will 
make  one  gallon. 

ENGLISH  PLUM   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  J.  Shultz. 

One  pound  each  of  finely  chopped   suet,    sugar, 
currants,  stoned  raisins,  two  pounds  soaked  bread, 

Never  borrozv  if  you  can  possibly  avoid  it. 


I02  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

six  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  grated  nutmeg; 
mix  all  together  thoroughly;  take  a  square  piece 
of  cotton  cloth,  dip  it  in  scalding  hot  water,  flour 
it  w^fill  and  lay  it  over  a  pan.  place  the  pudding  in 
the  cloth  and  tie  it  closely:  put  it  in  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  for  five  hours.  Have  boiling  hot  w^ater 
ready  to  fill  the  pot  as  it  boils  away,  so  as  not  to 
let  it  get  below^  boiling  heat. 

Sauce: — One  cup  of  sugar,  half,  cuj)  of  butter 
beat  to  a  cream,  a  teacup  of  boiling  water,  two 
teaspoons  of  flour  scalded  together:  flavor  to  suit 
taste. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 
Mrs.  E.  I.  Camm. 

One  pound  suet  (shredded  and  chopped  fine), 
one  pound  bread  crumbs,  one  pound  sugar,  one 
pound  raisins  (seeded),  one  pound  currants,  one- 
fourth  pound  citron,  one-fourth  jjound  candied 
lemon  peel,  one  pint  milk,  eight  eggs,  three  table- 
spoons cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  cloves,  one  ta- 
blespoon mace,  one  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda. 
Put  in  a  well  buttered  mould  and  steam  eight 
hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Hard  sauce: — Two  cups  sugar,  one- half  cup  but- 
ter beaten  to  a  cream,  yolks  of  tw^o  eggs;  flavor 
with  lemon, 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Smith. 

One  box  gelatine,  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  cold 
water,  soak  one  hour,  add  three  cups  of  sugar, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  four  lemons.  Stir  in  three 
pints  of  boiling  water — if  cool  weather  four  pints 
- — then  strain  and  add  fruit,  while  jelly  is  warm, 
six  oranges,  six  bananas,  one  can  of  sliced  or 
grated  pine  apple.  Set'  aside  to  cool.  This  will 
serve  forty  people. 

Sdiishine  is  one  of  nature  s  most  potent  remedies. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  103 


FRENCH    PUDDING 

Mrs.  Henry  Ewiiig. 

Beat  four  eggs  very  light.  Make  a  batter  of 
two  teacups  of  flour,  three  teacups  of  milk,  and 
one  of  cream,  pour  in  the  eggs  and  beat  all  well 
together,  Add  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and 
bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with 
white   sauce. 

FRUIT   PUDDING. 
Mrs.  T.  H.  Davidson. 

One  cup  milk,  one  egg,  piece  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  small  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  one 
cup  of  tart  fruit.  Steam  one  hour.  Serve  with 
any  rich  sauce  preferred. 

FIG  PUDDING. 
Mary  R.  Irwin. 

Six  ounces  of  figs,  chopped  fine,  six  ounce  of 
suet,  three  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces 
of  sugar,  three  eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Steam 
three  hours.  Sauce — Beat  up  one  teacup  of  but- 
ter to  a  cream  as  for  cake,  add  two  cups  of  sugar, 
and  flavor  with  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Wiley,  Chicago. 

One  cup  sweetening  (one-half  sugar  and  one-half 
N.  O.  molasses,)  half  cup  butter  (scant,)  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  tw^o  eggs,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  pound 
figs  chopped  very  fine. 

Sauce    for  Fig  Pudding.— Two    tablespoons    of 
boiling  water  poured  over  two  tablespoons  butter. 
Beat  in  with  Dover  egg  beater,  tw^o  cups  powdered 
sugar;  flavor  with  juice  of  a  lemon. 

TJic  happiness  of  youi^   life   depefids    imich  upon  the 
character  of  your  thoughts. 


I04  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   O.    D.    Hawkins. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  of 
raisins,  two  of  Graham  flour,  two  teaspoons  soda, 
and  a  little  salt.  Stir  the  molasses  and  milk,  di- 
vide the  flour  and  stir  in  raisins,  then  soda  in  part 
of  flour,  stir  all  together.  Put  in  round  cake  tin  with 
a  pipe  in,  and  steam  two  and  one-half  hours.  Have 
ready  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  scant  half  cup  butter 
beaten  to  a  cream,  moulded  into  a  brick,  set  out 
to  cool  on  a  plate.  Then  cut  your  pudding  like 
cake  and  cut  a  slice  of  the  cream,  and  serve  on 
plate  with  the  pudding. 

GROUND    ALMOND    PUDDING    BOILED. 
Mrs.  H.   Warner. 

One-half  pound  ground  almonds,  one-half  pound 
white  sifted  sugar,  eight  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
one-half  pound  of  bread  crumbs.  The  rind  of  a 
grated  lemon.  Beat  for  half  an  hour  and  steam 
the  same  as  for  other  steamed  puddings.  Must  be 
dished  up  quickly  and  eaten  with  sauce. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 
To  one  quart  of  milk,  when  hot,  add  four  table- 
spoons of  corn  meal  thick  enough  to  make  porridge. 
When  cool  add  half  cup  chopped  suet,  two  eggs, 
with  sugar  to  taste,  salt,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Bake  two  hours. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Mx'S.    H.  Burlingim. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  milk;  salt.  While  boiling 
stir  in  one  and  one-half  cups  corn  meal.  While 
hot  add  one  cup  of  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  ginger. 
Let  cool;  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  piece  of  but- 
ter half  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  of 

T/ic  cheapest  foods  are  oatmeal,  beans  and  potatoes. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  105 


Chapman  &  Smith's  cleaned  currants,  and  sugar 
enough  to  serve  without  sauce  if  you  wish.  Sauce 
the  same  as  for  English  plum  pudding,  which  makes 
it  delicious.     Bake  three  hours  slowly. 

MOONSHINE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Edna  Brcwn. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Add  grad- 
ually six  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  beating 
for  not  less  than  fifteen  minutes.  Then  put  in  one 
tablespoon  preserved  peaches  in  small  bits.  In 
each  saucer  put  in  some  rich  cream,  whipped, 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  on  the 
cream  place  a  liberal  portion  of  the  moonshine. 
This  makes  enough  for  eight  persons. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Smith. 

One  pint  almonds  blanched,  and  one  pint  chest- 
nuts blanched,  and  pounded  into  a  paste,  one  pint 
cream,  one  pint  pineapple,  ten  yolks  of  eggs,  one- 
half  pound  candied  fruit,  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla, 
one  pint  water,  one  pint  sugar.  Boil  sugar,  water 
and  pineapple  juice  twenty  minutes.  Beat  yolks 
and  stir  into  this.  Put  the  pan  in  which  this  mixture 
is  into  boiling  water,  beat  until  it  thickens.  Place 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  beat  ten  minutes,  mix  with 
cream,  rub  through  a  seive.  Add  fruit  and  pine- 
apple, cut  fine.  Mix  all  together.  Add  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  vanilla.      Freeze  like  ice  cream. 

ORANGE   PUDDING. 
Mrs.  C   C.  Merrideth. 

Five  oranges  cut  up  and  laid  nicely  in  a  dish 
with  one  coffee  cup  of  sugar  j^oured  over  them. 
Let  one  pint  of  rich  milk  get  boiling  hot;  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  tablespoon  of  corn 

''Man  is  a  giddy  thing,  and  this  is  my  conchision.'' 

— Much  Ado  About  Nothing. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 


starch;  when  thick  pour  over  the  oranges.  Beat 
the  whites  with  one  tablespoon  of  suorar;  spread 
over  the  pudding  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve 
cold. 

PRUNE   PUDDING. 

Ella  Rogrers. 

To  one  quart  2:>runes  add  one  quart  water  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Cook  slowly  until  quite  soft.  It 
will  require  several  hours.  Pour  oif  syrup,  seed 
the  prunes  and  put  them  in  a  baking  dish  with  the 
syrup  and  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs  mixed  in. 
Bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  whij^ped  cream. 

PEACH  CREAM. 
Pare  and  stone  some  nice  yellow  peaches  and 
mash  throngh  a  colander  with  a  potato  masher. 
Allow  as  much  cream  as  peach  pulp,  sweeten  to 
taste  and  beat  until  the  cream  is  light.  Serve  in 
glasses  with  currant  buns.  Banana  cream  may  be 
made  in  same  way. 

PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Wilber  S.  Walker. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cup  of 
sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  the  whites  of  four 
eggs,  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each  of  v^anilla  and 
lemon  extract.  Sauce  for  pudding — Beat  one  egg 
until  light,  add  juice  of  two  lemons,  half  cup  of 
sugar.      Boil  all  together  until  thick. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Margaret  Owens. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  yolks  two 
eggs.  Beat  all  together  very  light,  then  add  the 
whites  well  beaten.  Flavor  to  taste.  Steam  over 
boiling  water. 

Press  not  a  falling  man  too  far. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  107 


RICE   PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Miller.  ^ 

One  cup  of  rice  soaked  over  night  in  a  cup  of 
cold  water.  When  time  to  cook  add  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  piece  of  butter,  one 
nutmeg,  nine  cups  of  milk.      Bake  one  hour. 

SCOTCH  PIE. 

Slice  four  or  five  tart  apples  in  a  granite  pie  pan. 
Add  two  tablespoons  water.  Cover  with  a  mix- 
ture made  like  biscuits,  using  either  sour  milk  and 
soda,  or  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder,  only  a  little 
more  shortening.  Stir  with  a  spoon  stiff  enough 
to  spread  over  apples.  Serve  with  apples  up,  and 
cover  plentifully  with  a  sauce  made  of  one  table- 
spoon flour,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  three-fourths 
cup  of  sugar,  nutmeg.  Stir  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Four  over  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  five 
minutes  or  till  clear.  A  simple  and  good  dessert. 
Good  cold  or  warmed  over. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   I.  H.   Wolfe. 

One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  cup 
-^weet  milk,  one  cup  raisins,  three  cups  flour,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  all  kinds  spices. 
Steam  two  hours.  Serve  hot  with  a  dressing  of 
ten  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  whip  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Season  with 
vanilla. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 
Mrs.  L.  M.  Daugherty. 

One   and   one-half  cups  of   sugar,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg, 


*  'My  salad  days — when  I  zvas  green  in  judginetit. " 

— Antony  and  Cleopatra. 


lo8  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

one  good  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one-half  cup  of 
chopped  citron,  one  cup  of  raisins  or  currants. 
Sauce  for  pudding — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Add  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Stir  briskly  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes. 

SUET  PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Alice  Carey. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  suet,  chopped  fine.  One  cup 
of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  water, 
one  cup  of  raisins,  two  cups  of  flour.  Steam  two 
hours.  Sauce  for  the  above — Two  cups  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  cornstarch,  one  pint  boiling  water, 
one  teaspoon  butter.  Boil  five  minutes.  Flavor 
with  lemon. 


THP    Win^T    HFIIPATP    flavors  are  obtained  from 
inC    mUOl     ULLIUHIL  CHICAGO  FLAVORING   EXTRACTS. 

SUET  PUDDING. 
Alice  Winbigler. 

Two  cups  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  raisins,  one- 
half  cup  suet,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon 
cloves,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  pinch  of  salt. 
Steam  two  hours.  Pudding  sauce — Six  table- 
spoons sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  of  flour, 
teaspoon  nutmeg.  Mix  well  together  and  add  ten 
tablespoons  boiling  water.      Cook  until  done. 

SUET    PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Edgar  MacDill. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  on. 
pint  fruit,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
mixed  in  molasses,  four  cups  flour.  Spice  to  taste. 
Steam  three  hours.      Any  kind  of  sauce. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  109 


SAUCE  FOR  BREAD  PUDDING. 
Jlrs.  £.  C.  Johnson. 

One  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  vine- 
gar, one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  boiling  hot 
water,  stirred  in  grradually.  Boil  briskly  for  about 
three  minutes. 

SUET    PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Duke. 

One  cup  of  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  two  cups  of 
flour,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Flavor  with  nutmeg- 
and  cloves.      Steam  three  hours. 

STRAWBERRY   SHORTCAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  tablespoons 
l3utter,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder;  make  soft 
-dough  like  biscuit:  moisten  with  milk  or  water; 
bake  in  two  layers.  One  quart  or  more  strawberries, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  partly  mash;  butter  layers 
and  put  berries  between. 

STEAMED   PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Henry  H.  Pattee. 

One  and  one-half  cups  fine  bread  crumbs,  one- 
lialf  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar  mixed  with 
it;  three-fourths  cup  chopped  suet,  three-fourths 
cup  stoned  raisins,  one -half  cup  molasses,  one-half 
cup  milk,  one- half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  with 
the  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
to  taste.     Steam  three  hours.     Serve  hot. 

Sauce: — One  teacu]D  sugar,  one  half  cup  water, 
one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  teaspoon 
corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Boil  till 
well  done:  Pour  this  over  the  white  of  one  egg 
beaten  stiff. 


''Striving  to  do  better,  oft  lue  mar  what's  well.'' 

— King  Lear. 


no  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

SNOW  CUSTARD. 
Sara  Bond-Hanley. 

Half  package  gelatine,  three  eggs,  one-half  cups 
of  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon.     Soak  gelatine  one  hour 
in  cup  of  cold  water,    then  add  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
and   one  pint  boiling  water  ;   stir  until  dissolved, 
and  set  away  till  quite  cold;    then  beat  the  whites 
of  eggs  very   stiff  and  whip    the    gelatine   in   them 
spoonful   at   a   time,    whipping   slowly  and    evenly 
for  half  an  hour  or  till  quite  stiff.      Serve  in  sherbet 
cups  with  whipped  cream  piled  on  top.      Or  can  be 
moulded   in  small  cups  and  served  with  plain  cus- 
tard made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

SAGO  PUDDING. 
Mrs.   Janie  S.  Pebbles. 

To  three  pints  boiling  water  add  one  cup  of 
sago.  Boil  until  the  sago  is  transparent,  then 
add  one  cup  sugar;  let  cook  a  few  minutes  then 
add  four  tablespoons  sour  jelly  (currant  is  best), 
stir  until  dissolved:  take  from  the  fire  and  add  one 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  dish  you  wish,  to 
serve  it  from  and  when  cold  eat  with  sw^eetened 
cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

STEAM   PUDDING   WITHOUT   EGGS. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Burns. 

One  quart  flour,  one  pound  chopped  raisins,  one 
and  one-half  cup  choj)ped  suet,  one  teacup  molas- 
ses, one  teacup  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
two  cups  sweet  milk,  little  salt.  Steam  four  hours. 

TRANSPARENT    PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Henry  J.  Ewing. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  three-fourths  pound  butter^ 
one  pound  sugar,  one  nutmeg,  one  pint  cream; 
mix  well,  put  into  a  pan  and  set  over  a  vessel  of 
boiling  w-ater  for  a  few  minutes.  To  be  baked  in 
rich  puff  paste. 

Life  is  a  sJiiittle. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  iir 

TRIPLES. 

One  quart  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  two  teasjDOons  baking- 
powder,  one  egg,  sweet  milk  sufficient  to  make 
rather  stiff.  Roll  out  in  thin  sheets,  cut  in  pieces 
about  two  by  four  inches;  make  as  many  cuts 
across  the  short  way  as  possible,  inserting  the 
knife  near  one  edge  and  ending  the  cutting  just 
before  reaching  the  other.  Pass  two  knitting 
needles  under  every  other  strip,  spread  the  need- 
les as  far  apart  as  possible,  and  with  them  hold 
the  trifles  in  the  fat  until  a  light  brown.  Only 
one  can  be  fried  at  a  time. 

TAPIOCA  WITH    PINEAPPLE. 
Mrs.  J.  P.  Stevenson,  Tarkio,  Mo. 

One-half  cup  tapioca.  Soak  over  night  in  enough 
water  to  cover.  In  the  morning  add  two  pints  of 
water  and  cook  slowly  until  transparent.  One  and 
one-half  cups  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  one 
hour.  Remove  and  add  one-half  can  of  erated 
pineapple.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

TAYLOR  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Lucy   Clark. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  suet,  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  thicken, 
raisins  or  currants.  Steam  two  hours.  Sauce — 
I  One  egg,  tablespoon  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
one  spoon  of  butter.  Mix  and  thicken  with  boil- 
ing water. 

THE    QUEEN  OF   PUDDINGS. 
Mrs.  E.   B.   Doolittle. 

Take  one  pint  of  nice  bread  crumbs,  add  a 
quart  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs   well    beaten,    and  the     rind    of   a    fresh 


Moore  hated  onions.     He  said  that  a  man  zuho  zuould 
eat  onions    zuou/d  steal. 


112  PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

lemon  grated,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
one  spoon  of  flour  and  bake  well.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a.  stiff  froth  and  add  one  cup  of  pul- 
verized sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Spread 
over  the  pudding  a  layer  of  jelly  and  then  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 
Mrs.   I.    i^.   Matthews. 

Cover  three  tablespoons  ot  tapioea  with  water 
and  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and 
add  one  quart  milk  and  one  small  cup  of  sugar 
and  boil  half  an  hour.  Then  add  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  boil  five  minutes.  Beat  the  whites 
and  .spread  on  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

WOODFORD   PUDDING. 
Mrs.  Eli  Dixson,  Roseville;   Mrs.  C.  M.  Johnson. 

Three  eggs;  one  cap  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
three-fourths  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  one -third  cup  sour  milk,  one  teacup  jam 
(raspberry).     Bake  slowly. 

Sauce  for  above:  Three  eggs  (the  yolks),  one 
cup  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  cream,  but- 
ter and  sugar  together.  Make  thin  as  desired  with 
boiling  water.  Put  in  a  bowl  and  set  in  a  vessel 
of  hot  water.  Use  whites  of  the  eggs  for  top  of 
pudding. 

LEMON  .SAUCE    FOR   PUDDINGS. 
Mrs.  A.  B.   Seaman. 

Two  Cups  hot  water,  one  cup  sugar,  three  tea- 
spoons corn  starch,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  the  water  and 
sugar  five  minutes  and  add  the  corn  starch  w^et  in 
a  little  cold  w^ater.  Cook  about  ten  minutes,  then 
add  the  lemon  and  butter.     Stir  until  the  butter  is 

Balfc    said   tJierc  was  7iothing  better  tJian  fisJi  and 

potato  salad. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS.  113 

melted  and  serve  at  once.  If  the  water  boil  away 
and  the  sauce  become  too  thick  add  more  hot 
water  till  of  the  right  consistency. 

CORN  MEAL  PUDDING. 
Mrs     J.  C.    Gettemy. 

Five  eggs  beaten   separately,   three  tablespoons 
sugar,  three  tablespoons  corn  meal.       Beat  sugar, 
yolks   and   meal   together,    stir  in    whites    lightly. 
Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

JELLIED   PEACHES. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Babcock. 

Drain  juice  from  a  can  of  peaches,  add  one  cup 
sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  one-half  box 
gelatine  soaked  in  cup  cold  water.  Take  from 
stove  as  you  put  in  gelatine.  When  thoroughly 
dissolved,  strain  over  peaches.  Eat  cold  with 
€ream  and  sugar. 

DUTCH   APPLE   CAKE. 
Mrs,  A.  B,  Seaman, 

One  pint  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  soda  sifted  into  the  ilour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one-fourth  cup  butter, 
one  egg,  one  scant  cup  milk,  four  sour  ajDples, 
two  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients 
in  the  order  given;  rub  in  the  butter;  beat  the  egg 
and  mix  it  with  the  milk,  then  stir  into  the  dry 
mixture.  The  dough  should  be  soft  enough  to 
spread  half  an  inch  thick  on  a  shallow  baking  pan. 
Coie,  pare  and  cut  four  or  five  apples  into 
eighths;  lay  them  in  parallel  rows  on  top  of  the 
dough,  the  sharp  edge  down  and  pressed  slightly 
into  it.  SjDrinkle  the  sugar  on  the  apple,  with  a 
little  cinnamon  if  desired.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce 
as  a  pudding. 

-  —        - _, 

'''TJic  sands  arc  nmnbcrcd  tJiat   make   up   my   life" 

—Henrv  VI. 


114  ICES,  CREAMS,   ETC. 


ICES. 

"A  dream,  a  breath,  a  froth  of  fleeting  joy." — Poems,  Shakespeare^ 


APRICOT  SHERBET. 
Mrs.  E.  A.    Lord. 

One  pint   of   canned  apricots,  rubbed  through  a 

sieve,  one  pint  sugar,  one  pint  milk,  one  pint  water. 

Mix  and  freeze. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 
Lucy  Duer. 

One  quart  new  milk,  one  pound  sugar,  five 
lemons,  three  eggs.  Boil  the  milk  with  the  lemon 
rinds,  add  the  suffar,  and  when  cold  put  in  freezer 
and  partly  freeze.  Then  add  the  juice  of  five 
lemons,.slightly  sweetened,  and  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  beaten  stiff.      Freeze  hard. 

MILK   SHERBET. 
Juice  of  four  lemons,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar, 
one  quart  milk,  whites  of   three   eggs    beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.      Freeze  and  pack  hard. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 
Mrs.  Edna  B.   Brown. 

Juice  of  ten  oranges,  one  pint  of  sugar,  two  pints 
of  water,  two  eggs  (whites  Only).      Freeze. 

SUN  SHERBET. 
Georgia  A.  Smith,  Galesburg,  111. 

Juice  of  four  lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  whites 
of  four  eggs.  Stir  sugar  and  lemon  juice  together, 
add  the  well  beaten  whites,  -beating  all  the 
time.  Add  the  milk,  still  beating  hard,  just  be- 
fore pouring  into  the  freezer. 

A  light  heart  lives  long. 


ICES,  CREAMS,  ETC.   .  115 

MRS.    DEARBORN'S  SHERBET. 

Boil  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  water 
ten  minutes,  Pour  this  over  two  ounces  of  raisins 
stoned  and  cut  in.  small  pieces  ;  cool.  Soak  two 
teaspoons  of  Knox's  granulated  gelatine  in  one- 
fourth  cup  of  cold  water  five  minutes,  strain.  Dis- 
solve with  one-half  cup  of  hot  water.  Add  this 
to  cold  syrup,  strain.  Add  one  cup  of  fruit  syrup 
to  the  strained  mixture,  add  also  the  juice  of  three 
oranges  and  one  lemon,  strained.  Put  all  in  freezer, 
freeze  to  a  mush.  The  syrup  is  that  used  in  soda 
fountains  and  any  desired  flavor  may  be  used. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Mrs.  E.  A.   Lord. 

Boil  one  quart  of  water  with  three-fourths  pound 
of  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  strain  and 
freeze.  When  partly  frozen  add  the  beaten  white 
of  one  egg. 

PINEAPPLE    ICE. 

(One   gallon.) 
Margaret  Owens. 

One  can  of  pine  apples,    four  lemons,  whites  of 

four  eggs,  one  pint  of  sugar.      Make  a  thick  syrup  of 

the  sugar  and  pour  over  the  beaten  eggs  as  for  icing, 

add  the  pineapple  well  chopped,  then  the  juice  of 

the  lemons  and  one  pint  and  a  half  of  water.      Add 

sugar  to  taste 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 
Mrs.  E.  A.  Lord. 

Three  lemons,  one  can  sliced  pineapple,  one 
and  one-half  pints  sugar,  two  quarts  water,  one 
large  tablespoon  gelatine,  Avhites  of  two  eggs. 
Soak  gelatine  in  a  little  water  two  hours.  Boil 
water  and  sugar  five  minutes  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

Ladies,  do  your  cooking  with  Galva  Soft  Coal,  and 
ask  for  our  Icc\  cheapest  and  best — SipJier. 


ii6  iCES,   CREAMS,   ETC. 

Chop  the  pineapple  fine.  Use  it  this  way  or  strain 
out  the  juice  as  you  like  best.  Mix  lemon  juice, 
syrup  and  gelatine,  strain.  Add  pineapple  and 
freeze.  When  nearly  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs. 

ORANGE  ICE. 
Mrs.  Eugene  A.  Lord. 

Twelve  large  oranges,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one 
quart  water,  on.e  tablespoon  gelatine,  white  of  one 
Ggg.      Prepare  the  same  as  for  pineapple  ice. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 
Mrs.  Edgar    MacDill. 

One  quart  water,  two-thirds  pint  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  one  and  one-half  lemons,  strain.  The 
juice  from  one  can  of  grated  pineapple.  When 
partly  frozen  add  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg-  Too 
make  more,  double  all  the  receipt  except  pine- 
apple. 

STRAWBERRY    ICE  CREAM. 
Mrs.    Edgar  MacDill. 

One  quart  berries,  strain,  one  pint  sugar,  mashed 
together,  one  pint  milk,  one  quart  cream.      Freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 
Mrs.  O    S    Fre.ncli. 

One  pint  of  rich  milk,  one  pint  or  cream,  one 
quart  of  fresh  strawberries  mashed  with  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Mix  all  together  and  freeze. 

AMERICAN   CREAM. 
Mrs.  C,   W.  Dougherty. 

One  quart  milk,  five  eggs,  one-half  box  Cox's 
gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine  one-half  hour  in  a  lit- 
tle more  cold  water  than  will  cover  it  well,  then 
add  the  cold  milk.     Put  over  fire   and   stir   until 

Schubert  loved  coj'ned  beef  and  cabbage  better  thati 
any   otiier  disJi. 


ICES,  CREAMS,   ETC.  117 

the  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  beaten  with  ten  tablespoons  sugar  and  let 
boil  about  two  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  six  tablespoons  sugar.  Pour  the  cus- 
tard over  the  whites  and  beat  until  well  mixed. 
Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a 
mold  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Should  be  made  at 
least  five  hours  before  using. 

BANANA   CREAM. 

Mrs.  Delos  P,  Phelps. 

Remove  skins  from  five  large  bananas  and  rub 
them  smooth  with  five  tablespoons  of  white  sugar, 
beat  one-half  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
pounded  fruit  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  mix  w^ell 
and  add  one-half  ounce  Cox's  gelatine  previously 
dissolved  in  enough  rich  milk  to  cover  it;  whisk 
all  together  gently  and  mold.  Cream  and  sugar 
may  be  served  with  this. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. 
Linnie  Brewer. 

One  pint  thick  cream  w^ell  whipped,  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff;  have  all  ready  one- 
fourth  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  half  cup  warm 
water.  Let  it  cool  before  putting  in  the  cream. 
Beat  thoroughly  after  the  gelatine  is  added, 
sweeten  and  flavor  with  Chapman  &  Smith's  van- 
illa to  suit  the  taste.     This  will  serve  ten  persons. 

CARAMEL   ICE   CREAM. 

Julia  Clarke. 

One  pint  milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
quart  cream,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  tablespoon 
flavoring  (vanilla),  one  saltspoon  salt.  Scald  the 
milk  in  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs,  flour  and 
one  cup  of  sugar  together  till  light,  then  turn  into 
the  milk.  Stir  constantly  till  thickened  and  then 
occasionally.     Cook  in  all  twenty  minutes.     When 

Liszt  was  as  simple  in  his  eating  as  he  was  abstruse 

ill  his  imisic. 


/ 


ii8  .  ICES,   CREAMS,   ETC. 

cold  add  the  second  cup  of  sugar,  the  cream  and 
flavoring,  then  strain  into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 
Put  one  scant  cup  of  sugar  into  a  frying  pan  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  turns  liquid  and 
brown,  add  this  to  the  hot  custard,  in  place  of  one 
cup  of  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE   ICE   CREAM. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Babeock. 

One  pint  rich  cream,  one  pint  new  milk,  one 
egg,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  chocolate.  Heat 
milk,  adding  sugar,  corn  starch  and  chocolate  dis- 
solved in  a  little  of  the  milk.  Beat  egg  and  add 
to  milk,  etc.,  stirring  constantly  till  thick.  Set 
off  fire  and  add  cream.  When  cold  add  vanilla 
and  freeze. 

COFFEE   CREAM, 
/^  Adelaide  M.    Glenn. 

Make  one-half  pint  of  custard  with  two  eggs 
and  one -half  pint  of  milk.  Dissolve  one  ounce 
of  gelatine  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  strong  coffee,  add  the  custard  and 
strain.  Whip  one-half  pint  of  cream  quite  firm, 
stir  lightly  into  the  custard.  When  it  is  cool  pour 
into  a  mold  and  set  on  ice.  Coffee  must  be  fil- 
tered, not  boiled,  freshly  made  and  very  strong; 
three  tablespoons  of  coffee  to  the  half  pint. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream  may  be  made  by  not  using  the 
gelatine  and  freezing  it  in  a  freezer. 

FROZEN   PUDDING. 
Mrs.  L.  Marks. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  gelatine,  one-half  cup  flour,  one  quart 
cream,  one  pint  milk,  three-fourths  pounds  can- 
died fruit,  one  spoon  vanilla.  Dissolve  flour  in  a 
little  milk,  add  sugar  and  eggs  and   add   the   milk 

^'Omittance  is  no  quittance .'' — As  Yoii  Like  It, 


ICES.  CREAMS,   ETC.  v.  119 

boiling  hot.     Cook  in  double   boiler   twenty   min 
utes,    then   add    gelatine   which   has  soaked   two 
hours,  and  set  away  to  cool.      Freeze  tea  minutes, 
then  add  fruit,  and  finish  freezing. 

GELATINE  JELLY. 
Mrs,  J.  F.  Gainer. 

A  half  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  jjint  warm 
water,  add  one  quart  boiling  water,  two  and  a  half 
cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  citric  acid  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water:  boil  twenty  minutes;  flavor 
with  banana  essence.  It  can  also  be  used  for  a 
salad  by  i^ouring  over  ripe  fruit,  bananas  sliced, 
green  grapes,  oranges,  etc.  Let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours  on  ice  before  using. 

ORANGE   CUSTARD. 

Make  a  rich  custard  with  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
using  Chapman  &  Smith's  delicious  orange  extract 
for  flavoring.  Beat  whites  to  stiff  froth,  and  stir 
through  custard  while  hot.  Or,  put  in  grated 
chocolate  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  you  will 
have  an  excellent  chocolate  custard. 

SWEET   POTATO   CUSTARD. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

Rub  cup  of  sweet  potatoes  through  a  colander; 
beat  two  eggs  into  the  potato  and  add  half  teacup 
of  sugar.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  any  spice. 
Add  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  One 
cup  of  milk.     Salt  to  taste. 

ORANGE   CUSTARD. 

Mrs.  Ida  Weir. 

One  quart  milk,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  five 
tablespoons  sugar,  a  very  small  pinch  of  salt,  six 
drops  of  vanilla,  one  whole  egg  and  yolks  of  three 
(save  whites  of  three  for  frosting.)  Pare  three 
oranges,  cut   into   very  small  pieces,  and  sprinkle 

Hodgens    Tntti  Frutti  Cream. 


I20  ICES,   CREAMS,  ETC.  *  .  . 

six  or  seven  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  over  them,, 
and  set  aside  for  two  or  three  hours.  Put  milk 
into  a  tin  pail  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water  with  the  salt,, 
keep  out  about  one-half  cup  of  milk  to  dissolve 
cornstarch;  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  cook 
until  thick. 

TAPIOCA    CREAM. 
Mrs.  L.  M.  Reed. 

Three  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  over  night  iir 
water  to  cover.  Add  three  pints  of  milk,  boil  five 
minutes  (using  double  boiler),  stir  in  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Let  §cald.  Add  whites, 
of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Flavor  with  Chap- 
man &  Smith's  extract  of  vanilla. 

VELVET   BLANC  MANGE. 

Emma  A.  Tucker, 

Two  cup  sweet  cream,  half  ounce  Cooper's 
gelatine,  soaked  in  very  little  cold  water  one  hour, 
one-half  cup  powdered  w^hite  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
ChajDman  &  Smith's  extract  bitter  almonds.  Heat 
the  cream  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine  and 
sugar,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  dissolved  take  from 
the  fire,  beat  ten  minutes;  flavor  and  pour  into 
mould  wet  with  cold  water.  Stick  over  the  top — 
when  turned  out  and  ready  to  serve — blanched 
almonds. 


A  Rubber  Stamp 

For  Marking  Your  Linen,  Sheets,  etc. 

Made  to  order  in  any  style  at  the 


/here  you  can  also  have  your  menus  printed  in  attractive  shape. 


CAKES.  121 


CAKES. 


''He  that  would  have  a  cake  out  of  the  wheat,  must  tarn^  the 
grinding  Hereafter  the  kneading,  the  making  of  the  cakes, 
the  heating  of  the  oven,  and  the  baking  :  nay,  you  must^stay 
the  cooling,  too,   or  >ou  may  chance  to  burn  your  lips" 

—  Troilus  and  Crcssida. 


Cake  makers  often  condemn  the  recipe  when  the 
fault   lies   in   themselves.      Here  are  a  few  general 
rules:       Always    use  the    best    materials.       When 
commencing- have  all  the  ingredients  ready,  weighed 
or  measured,  the  tins  lined  with  paper  and  greased 
(or  grease  the  pans,  have  them  cold  and   dust  well 
with  flour.)      For  cakes  which  require  [long  baking 
use  several  layers  of  paper.      Use  granulated  sugar 
dried  and  sifted.      Always  dry  the  flour  and  sift  it 
four  times  with  the  baking  powder  into  a  dry  dish. 
In  making   anything   of   the  cake  kind  begin  with 
the  shortening  and  sugar,  creaming  them  with  the 
hand  in  a   deep    earthen   bowl  to  a  light  and   deli- 
cate consistency,  adding  the  yolks  of  eggs,  which 
should  be  beaten  separately  from   the  whites,  stir- 
ring them  in   thoroughly    with    a   wooden    spoon  ; 
then  add  milk  or  water  gradually,  beating  all   the 
time.      This   adding   of   the  liquid  slowly  prevents 
curdling.       Or  alternate    with    flour    a    little   at   a 
time.      Add  flavor,  then   flour,  and  finally   fold   in 
the   whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten   to  a  coarse  froth, 
Stiff   enough   to  cut  with  a  knife,  but  never  to  the 
hard,    dry    froth    which    some  patent  Qg^  beaters 
give.      Use  a  fork    or   wire  spoon  for  beating.      In 
the  folding  process   the    motion  with  the  spoon   is 
from  right  to  left. 


hr^ 


122  BAPTIST  LADIES*  COOK  BOOK. 


44 


ROLLING-PIN"  -  GLEANED  -  CDRRINTS. 

EST 


THE     PLUMP 
CLEAN 
MEATI 
AND     F\N.MmM^^    J^     FLAVORED. 


They  are  ready  for  instant  use,  and  for  convenience  are 
put  up  in  1  and  2  lb.  cartons. 

DELICrDuS!      THAT'S    JUST    WHAT    THEY    ARE. 

so  ARE  CHICAGO  FLAVORING  EXTRACTS. 

THEY   ARE  PURE. 
THEY  ARE  FULL  STRENGTH. 
tHEY  HAVE  THE  MOST  NATURAL  AND  DELICATE   FLAVOR. 

THEY  ARE  ABSOLUTELY   UNEQUALED. 

EVERY    BOTTLE    FULL    MEASURE, 

AND  BEARS  THIS 

CHAPMAN     &     SMITH     COMPANY, 

MANUFACTURERS     AND     IMPORTERS, 

CHICAGO.   ILL. 


THE  FAHOUS. 


Leaders  in  Styles  and  Prices  of  Clothing, 
and  Gents  Furnishing  Goods. 

LIONEL  WOLFERMAN, 

PROPRIETOR. 


"The  New  Departure.'      ^    ,^  BUY  THE   BEST! 

The  New  Departure 


The  Original  and 
Only  Genuine 

Fongueless 

Cultivator. 

None  genuine  unless  bearing  our  trade  mark;        PATTEE   PLOW  CO-, 

"The  New  Departure"  on  arch.  Monmouth,  ill. 

Patentees  and  Sole  Manufacturers. 


CAKES.  123 

ANGELFOOD  CAKE. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs,  one  tumbler  of  fine  gran- 
ulated sugar,  one  tumbler  of  winter  wheat  flour, 
one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  and  a  little  salt.  Sift 
the  sugar  before  measuring.  Sift  the  flour,  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  salt.  Sift  three  times.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  light.  Beat  the  sugar 
in  thoroughly  and  add  the  flour.  Flavor  to  taste. 
Bake  one  hour. 

BERWICK  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  L.    A.  Green. 

Six  eggs  beat  together  three  minutes. 
Three  cups  sugar,  beat  this  five  minutes, 
Two  cups  of  flour, 
Two  teaspoons  cream  tartar  beat  two  minutes. 
One  cup  water  with  one  small  spoon  soda  dissolved 
in  it  ;    beat  one  minute,  a  little  salt  and  lemon  ex- 
tract.     Bake  in  slow  oven. 

BRIDGET'S  CUP   CAKE. 
Mrs.   M.  E.  Babcock 

Two  heaping  cups  bread  dough. 

One  small  cup  butter.  Two  small  cups  sugar, 

Half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved.  Three  eggs. 

One  cup  seeded  raisins, 

Cloves,  cinnamon  and  vanilla. 

Let  this  rise  until  very  light  before  baking. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  cup  coffee  cold  and  strong,   One  cup  butter, 

One  cup  sugar.  One  cup  molasses, 

Four  and  one-half  cups  flour  and  two  eggs. 

One  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  water. 

One  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

One  cup  Chapman  &  Smith's  currants. 


C.  Shiiltz,  Pure  Spices. 


124 CAKES 

BROWN  STONE    FRONT  CAKE. 
Mrs.  H.  Burlingim. 

Half  cup  chocolate  shaved,    Half  cup  sweet  milk, 
One  cup  sugar,  Yolk  of  one  egg- 

Boil  till  thickens  and  cool. 
Three-fourths   cup  sugar,      Two-thirds  cup  butter. 
Two  eggs.  One  cup  milk. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
Two  teaspoons   Chapman  &  Smith's  Chicago  Yeast 

Powder. 
Add  the  chocolate.        Bake  in  shallow,  oblong  tin. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Cirrie  L.  Wallace. 

One  cup  butter,  One  cup  sugar, 

One  cup  molasses.  One  cup  coffee  (liquid). 

Four  cups  flour.  Three  eggs. 

One  teaspoon  soda,  Two  teaspoons  cloves, 

Two  teaspoons  cinnamon.  One  tb.  chopped  raisins. 

Two  teaspoons  mace  or  one   of  nutmeg. 

CREAM  SPONGE. 
Mrs.  L.   A.   Green. 

Two  eggs  broken  in  a  cup  and  flll  with  sweet  cream. 
One  cup  fine  sugar,  One  heaping  cup  of  flour„ 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder.      Flavor  to  suit. 

MARBLE    CAKE, 
;  Mrs.  F,  A.  Gilmore. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  One-half  cup  of  butter, 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  One  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

Three  cups  of  flour, 
Two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
For  the  dark  part — One  cup  of   dough,   add  one 
cake  of  grated  chocolate,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk. 
Use  one-half   of   the   white  dough   first,  then  all  of 
the  dark  part,  the  remainder  of  the  white  last. 

W.  J.  Patters 071^  Groceries  and  School  Supplies."^ 


CAKES.  125 

CRACKER  CAKE  WITHOUT  FLOUR. 

Ten  eggs,  Two  cups  sugar, 

Two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  Juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon, 
Two  bars  chocolate  grated,  Half  ft),  dates  cut  fine, 
Dredge  with  a  little  flour, 
Eleven  soda  crackers  rolled  fine. 
]Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PRINCESS  ALEXANDRIA  CAKE. 

Mrs.   Lafayette   Marks. 

One  cup  sugar.  Whites  of  four  eggs  whipped  stiff, 
One-third  cup  sweet  milk,  One-third  cup  butter, 
Two  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  ji  cups  of  flour. 
Bake  in  an  oven  just  hot  enough  to  hiss  lightly 
when  touched  with  water.      Flavor  to  taste. 

PORK  CAKE. 

Mary  Patterson. 

One  pound  salt    pork    chopped   fine, 
One  pound  raisins.  One   pound    currants, 

One  pint  brown  sugar,  Half  pound  citron, 

One  pint  boiling  water,  Half  pint  molasses. 

One  heaping  quart  flour,         One  teaspoon  mace, 
Two  teaspoons  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 
Rind   of  one   lemon  grated. 
One  tablespoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Pour  the  boiling  water  on  pork,  stir  until  melted, 
then  pass  through  the  colander,  add  sugar,  molasses, 
spices  and  half  the  flour — flour  first — then  add  soda 
and  rest  of  flour.      Bake  in  well  buttered  cake  pan 
in  a  hot  and  steady  oven, 

RAIL  ROAD  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Edna  Brown. 

Two  tablespoons  butter.  Two  cups  sugar, 

One  cup  sweet  milk.     Four  eggs.    Three  cups  flour. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


Gemdne  New  Orleans  Molasses  at  W.J.  Pattersons 


126  CAKES. 

SPICE  CAKE. 
Mrs.  Chas.  M.  Johnson. 

One  cup  butter,  Two  cups  brown  sugar,. 

Three  cups  flour,  Four  eggs, 

One  cup  cold  coffee.  One  bowl  of  citron, 

One  bowl  chopped  raisins.  One  teaspoon  cinnamon 
One  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Half  teaspoon  cloves. 

One  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  slow  oven. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 
Miss  Emma  Gregg. 

Five  eggs,  Two  cups  sugar, 

Half  cup  warm  water.       Two  cups  flour. 

Flavor  with  lemon. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  L.   M.  Dougherty. 

One  cup  sugar.  One  cup  flour, 

Two  tablespoons  water,        Three  eggs, 
One  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
One  teaspoon  of  lemon. 
Beat   the  yolks   of    the   eggs,    sugar,    flour   and 
water  together,  add  the  whites  well  beaten.     Bake 
twenty  minutes. 

SPICE    C\KE. 

Mrs.  Mira  L.  Miller. 

Two  cups  sugar,  One  cup  butter, 

One  cup  strong  coffee.        Four  cups  of  flour, 

Three  eggs. 

Three  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

One  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  allspice, 

One-half  teaspoon  cloves, 

One  nutmeg.  One  pound  raisins  seeded,. 

One-half  cup  citron,  One-half  cup  figs. 

'  'OJi  ivJiat  a  goodly  outside  falsehood  hath.'' 

— Merchant  of  Venice. 


CAKES. 


127 


SUNSHINE   CAKE. 
Miss  Anna  B.    Owens. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  Yolks  of  five  eggs, 

One  cup  sugar,  Four-fifths    cup  flour. 

One-third   teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Flavor  to  taste.      Mix  as  in  angel  food. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 
Mrs.  y.  Shultz. 

One  pound  brown  sugar,  One  pound  flour,  browned 
Three  pounds  seeded  raisins, 

Two  pounds  Chapman  &  Smith's  cleaned  currants, 
One  pound  figs,  Three-fourths   lb    butter, 

One  cup  molasses, 
Two  teaspoons  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
One  teaspoon  pepper,        One  teaspoon   nutmeg, 
One  teaspoon  soda,  One  dozen  eggs. 

One-half  cup  currant   jelly  melted   in    one-half  cup 
of  hot  water. 

This  cake  will  keep  for  years. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Seth  Pratt,  Roseville. 

One  pound   flour.  One  pound   butter, 

One  and  one-half  pounds  sugar  (very  brown) 

Four  pounds  raisins  chopped  fine. 

Three   pounds  Chapman  &  Smith's  currants, 

One-half  pound   citron,  chopped. 

Ten  eggs.  One-half    ounce   nutmeg. 

One-half  ounce  cloves.      One-half  ouncecinnamon. 

One-half  pint  coffee. 

EASILY  MADE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Alexander. 

Two  cups  sugar.  Three-fourth  cups  butter. 

Three  cups  flour,  One  cup   sour  milk. 

One  teaspoon  soda. 


''We  are  born  to  do  benefits.'^ — Timon  of  Athens. 


128  CAKES. 

Five  eggs, yolks  beaten  with  butter  and  sugar,  whites 

added  last  with  flour. 
One  pint  seeded  raisins, 

One  pint  Chapman  &  Smith's  cleaned  currants. 
One-fourth  pound  citron,  roll  fruit  in  a  little  flour, 
small   tablespoon    cinnamon,  allspice,    cloves    and 
nutmeg.      Bake  two  hours  in  slow  oven,  cover  top 
with  paper  while  baking. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 
Mrs.  James  Duke. 

Four  lbs  seeded  raisins  chopped. 

Two  lbs  Chapman  &  Smith's  cleaned  currants, 

One  lb  each    of  citron   and  figs  cut   very  fine. 

One  lb  brown  sugar,  One  lb  flour, 

One  lb  butter.  One  dozen  eggs. 

One  tablespoon  allspice,  Two  tablespoons  cloves. 

Two  tablespoons  cinnamon. 
One  nutmeg.  One  cup  molasses. 

One  teaspoon   of  soda  dissolved    in  a    gill    of    hot 
water. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,    mix  flour  and  spices. 
Then  beat  all  togretheraddinsrfruitlast  well  floured. 
This   will  make   two   loaves.       Bake    in    moderate 
oven  three  hours,  frosting  when  cold. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  John  ].  Glenn. 

Two  cups  sugar.  One  cup  butter. 

One  cup  sweet  milk.  Three  cups  flour, 

I       I    Three  small  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Whites  of  seven  eggs. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 
S.  B.  M. 

One  heaping  cup  sugar.    One-half  cup  butter. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  Two  cups  flour, 

* '  TJicre  s  not  otie  wise  man  among  twenty  that  zvill 
praise  /limself.'' — Much  Ado  About  Nothing. 


CAKES.  129 

One  cup  chopped  raisins, 
One-half  cup  citron  rolled  in  flour, 
Whites  of  four  eggs, 
Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Carrie  Smith. 

One  cup  butter  Two  cups  sugar. 

Three  cups  flour,  Whites  of  eight  eggs, 

One-half  cup  water,  One-fourth  lb  citron. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
One-half  lb  almonds  chopped  very  fine. 
One  teacup  cocoanut. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  then  the 
flour,  lastly  fruit;   bake  in    two   loaves  forty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE. 
Mrs.    Irene  E.    Smith. 

Two  cups  sugar. 
Six  eggs,  leaving  out  whites  of  three, 
One  cup  boiling  water, 
Two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
One  tablespoon   baking  powder, 
Beat  yolks   a    little,  add"  sugar   and    beat  fifteen 
-minutes,  add    the  three   beaten   whites  and  cup  of 
boiling  water  just  before  the  flour.      One  teaspoon 
lemon  flavorinsf.      Bake  in  three  tins. 


o' 


MY  WEDDING  CAKE  42  YEARS  AGO. 
Mrs.  M-  E.   Babcock. 

One  pound  sugar.  Yolks  of  eight  eggs. 

Three  whole  eggs,  One  pound  butter, 

One  and  one-fourth  It),  flour.  Four  pounds  currants, 
Three  pounds  raisins.  Half  pound  citron. 

One  cup  molasses. 
Two  tablespoons  cinnamon, 

Careless  measurement  spoils  many  good  dishes. 


I30  CAKES. 

Teaspoon  each  of  mace,  cloves,  vanilla  and  lemon. 

One  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Work  butter  and   sugar   together    until  very  light, 
also  yolks   of  eggs;    put  whites   in    last  and  soda. 
Bake  three  hours  with  slow  fire. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

Mrs.   H.  Burlingim. 

Two  cups  light  bread  sponge, 
Two-thirds  cup  butter.  Two  cups  of  sugar, 

One  teaspoon  soda,  Three  eggs. 

Mix  these  ingredients  well,  add  the  sponge  with 
flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cup  cake.  Cinnamon, 
cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  Chapman  &  Smith's  ex- 
tract of  spice.  One  cup  raisins,  one  cup  Chapman 
&  Smith's  cleaned  currants,  citron  and  figs  improve 
it.      Let  raise  about  two  hours. 

HARD  TIMES  FRUIT  CAKE. 
Mrs.  |.  W.  Matthews. 

Soak   one   cup  of   dried   apples  over  night — chop. 
Add  one  cup  molasses,  Half   cup   of   vinegar. 

Let  it  simmer  two  or  three  hours. 
Beat  to  a  cream   one  egg  and  yolks   of  two    more. 
One  cup  brown  sugar.  One-half  cup  butter,. 

Add  two  and  one-half  cups  flour. 
One-half  cup  sweet  milk. 

One  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda. 
Cinnamon,  cloves,    nutmeg,    and   prepared  apples^ 
Bake  slowly.      Use  the  two  whites   for  frosting. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Mrs.   Henry  Ewing. 

Two  cups  of  butter.  Three  cups  of  sugar. 

Five  cups  of  flour.  One  cup  of  milk. 

Four  teaspons  baking  powder,  Eight  eggs. 
Use  coffee  cups.      Flavor  to  taste. 

C.  SJuiltz,  Pure  Spices. 


CAKES.  131 

DELICATE  CAKE. 
Mrs.   Henry  Ewing. 

One  pound  of  flour,  One  pound  of  sugar, 

Half  pound  of  butter,  Whitesof  sixteen  eggs. 

LAYER  CAKES. 

ALMOND   CREAM    CAKE. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs. 
One  and  a  half  goblets  pulverized  sugar. 
One  and  a  half  goblets  flour. 
One  heaping  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 
For  C renin. 
Half  pint  sweet  cream.     Yolks  three  eggs. 
One  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar. 
One  teaspoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  milk. 
Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together;    boil  cream,  add 
eggs,  sugar  and  corn  starch.     Blanch  and  chop  one 
and  a  half  pounds  almonds  and  stir  in  the  cream. 
Put  together  like  jelly  cake. 

PRINCE   ALBERT   CAKE. 
J.  M.  Holt. 

One  and  half  cups  sugar.  Two  eggs. 
One  half  cup  butter.  Three-quarters  cup  milk. 

Two  heaping  cups  flour. 
One  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Bake  half  in  shallow  tins,  to  the  remainder  add 
one  tablespoon  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  raisins 
mixed  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  one-half  spoonful 
of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Put  together 
with  icing  flavored  to  taste. 

FRENCH   CREAM    CAKE. 
Doi-a  Dougrherty. 

Whites  of  five  eggs.  Two  cups  of  sugar. 

One  cup  butter.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

Three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour. 
Two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

' '  What's  past  help  should  be  past  f^rief, " 

—  Winters  Tale. 


132  CAKES. 

Pilling — One  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  milk,  yolk  of  two  eggs,  one  half  cup  of 
sugar,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Have  one  jDint  of 
sweet  milk  boiling,  stir  in  the  ingredients  and 
boil  until  the  thickness  of  cream,  when  cool  spread 
between  the  layers  of  the  cake.  Flavor  with  Chap- 
man &  Smith' s  pineapple. 

CHOCOLATE    CAKE. 
Edna  Dean. 

Two  cups  sugar.  Half  cup  butter. 

Half  cake  of  chocolate,  melted. 
Four  eggs.  One  cup  sweet  milk. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Two  cups  flour. 
Mix  butter  and  sugar   to   cream,  add  chocolate 
and  milk  and  yolks  of   eggs.      Sift  baking  powder 
with  flour,  and  add  alternately  with  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  two  layers. 

Icing  —  Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  boiling  water,  flavoring  extract.  Boil  until 
it  hairs,  and  pour  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.     Beat  until  thick. 

SPICED   FIG   CAKE. 

Miss  Linnie  Brewer. 

One  cup  of  butter.  Two  cups  of  sugar. 

One  cup  of  milk.  Four  cups  flour. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Five  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs  or  seven  yolks, 
if  prefered,  using  three  whites  for  frosting. 
Flavor  with  fresh  lemon.  Work  the  butter  soft 
and  light,  mix  the  sugar  in  slow  and  keep  the 
butter  light,  put  in  part  of  the  milk  and  flour,  then 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  and  yellows  together. 
Bake  in  three  pans,  two  of  yellow,  and  in  a  third  of 
the  dough  put  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one-half 

' '  Woj'ds  ivitJiout  thoughts  never  to  heaven  go. " 

— Hamlet. 


CAKES.  13 

teaspoon  of  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg  and  vanilla. 
Put  one  pound  of  figs,  chopped  in  a  pan  on  the 
stove  with  a  little  water  and  let  simmer  until  ten- 
der, remove  on  a  plate  and  dry  off.  When  the 
cake  is  done  take  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  to 
the  whites  of  each  egg,  put  w^ater  over  the  sugar, 
enough  to  dissolve  and  boil  until  thick  enough  to 
thread  as  it  drops  from  a  spoon.  Have  the  whites 
beaten  very  light  and  drop  the  sugar  slowly, 
a  spoonful  at  a  time,  beat  very  light  and  put  a 
thin  layer  on  the  cake  first,  then  the  figs  and  an- 
other layer  of  frosting;  put  the  spiced  layer  be- 
tween the  yellow  ones,  leaving  frosting  enough  to 
cover  when  all  put  together.  This  makes  a  large 
loaf. 

LEMON   CAKE. 
Sara  Peacock. 

Two  cups  sugar.  Three -fourths  cup  butter. 

Three  cups  flour.  One  cup  milk. 

Whites  of  five  egg.  Two  teaspoons  of  baking 

powder.     Bake  in  jelly  tins  and  betw^een  the  layers 
spread  the  following: 

One  egg.  One  cup  of  sugar. 

One  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 
One  teas]30on  of  bnitter. 
Boil  till  thick  as  jelly. 

LEMON    CAKE. 
Mrs.  L.  Marks. 

One  cup  butter.  Two  cups  sugar. 

Three  cups  flour.  One  cup  sweet  milk. 

Four  eggs  whipped  separately. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Filling — Dissolve  two  tablespoons  corn  starch  or 

flour  in  a  little  water,  add  juice  and  rinds  of   two 

lemons,  yolks  of   three  eggs,  one   cup  sugar,  half 

cup  butter  and  one  cup  boiling  water.      Cook  in 


Knowledge  comes,  but  wisdom  lingers. 


134  CAKES. 

double  boiler,  and  just  as  removed  from  stove  add 
the  whites,  whipped  stiff. 

PORK   CAKE. 

No  eggs  or  butter  required. 
One-half   pound  pickled  pork,  chopped  very  fine. 
One  cup  molasses.  One  cup  sugar. 

One  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  boiling 
w^ater.  Six  cups  of  flour.  One  cup  each  of  raisins 
and  Chapman  &  Smith's  cleaned  currants,  and 
spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Have  the  batter  about  as 
thick  as  ginger  bread. 

PRINCE   OF   WALES   CAKE. 
Mrs.  Lafayette  Marks. 

One  cup  brown  sugar.       A  little  soda. 

Two  large  spoons  baking  powder. 
Two  cups  flour.  Half  pound  raisins. 

Half  cup  sour  milk.  A  little  citron. 

Half  cup  butter.  Spice  to  taste. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  frosting. 

WHITE   LAYER   CAKE. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs.       Two-thirds  cup  of  butter. 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar.     Beat  to  a  cream. 
One  cup  sweet  milk.  Three  cups  flour. 

Two  teaspoons  baking   powder.      Flavor  to  taste. 
Use  this  filling,  or  any  other: 

Filling — One  small  cup  of  w^ater,  one  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  tw^o  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour.  Place  these  ingredients  on  the  stove  in  a 
double  boiler,  the  egg  being  first  well  beaten.  Boil 
till  thick,  letting  it  cook  one-half  hour.  When 
cool  spread  on  cake. 

— ^ — i^ 

''An  honest  tale  speeds  best  being  plainly  told.'' 

— RicJiard  IV. 


CAKES.  135 

STRAWBERRY   JAM   CAKE. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Linn. 

One-fourth  cup  butter.     One  cup  sugar. 

Three  eggs. 
Three  tablespoons  of  sour  milk. 
One  and  two-thirds  cups  of  flour. 
One  teaspoon  cinnamon.  One  teaspoon  soda. 

One  cup  jam. 
Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing. 

MARSH    MALLOW   CAKE. 

Mrs.  F.  B. 

Make  any  nice  w^hite  cake  and  bake  in  two  long 
tins,  boil  two  cups  granulated  sugar  and  one -half 
cup  water  five  minutes,  or  until  it  strings  from  the 
spoon,  have  the  w^hites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
and  pour  the  hot  syrup  into  them,  stirring  fast; 
"while  very  hot  stir  in  one  box  of  marsh  mallows; 
put  half  between  the  cakes  and  half  on  top. 

CONSERVE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  maple  or  white  sugar,  one 
cup  sweet  cream,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla;  mix  and  simmer  gently  forty  min- 
utes. 

FILLING   FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 
Mrs.  J.  O.  M. 

One  cup  of  nice  cream,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
ten  cents'  worth  English  walnuts  and  rolled  fine; 
any  flavor  you  wish.  This  filling  can  be  made 
with  sour  cream  by  using  more  sugar;  beat  the 
cream  up,  then  add  the  sugar,  nuts,  etc.,  and  put 
betw^een  layers  and  on  top  cake. 

ALMOND   FILLING. 

One  cup  sweet  cream  set  in  a  basin  of  hot  water, 
heat  for  tw^o  or  three  minutes,  add  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk ;  sweeten  to  t  aste,  cook  till  it 

Striving  to  better,  oft  we  mar  zvJiafs  ivell. 


136  CAKES. 

thickens,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  one-hall  cu]> 
of  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  (not  too  fine), 
when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla,  cover  the  top  of  the 
cake  with  a  thick  frosting  and  sprinkle  some 
almonds  on  top. 

ICE    CREAM   FILLING. 
Harriet  Gettemy  Mororan. 

Three  cups  sugar.  One  cup  water. 

Boil  to  thick,  clear  syrup,  or  until  it  begins  to  be 
brittle.     Pour  this  boiling  hot  over  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs;    stir  the  mixture  very  brisk- 
ly: pour  the  sugar  in  slowly;  beat  until  it  thickens 
Flavor  with  Chapman  &  Smith's  lemon  or  vanilla. 

FIG   DRESSING   FOR   CAKE. 
Mrs.  R.  A.  Wilson. 

Three-fourths  lb.  figs.  One-half  lb.  raisins. 
Fifteen  almonds. 
Cut  the  figs  in  a  pan  and  put  two  or  three  table- 
spoons of  boiling  water  over  them,  cover  closely, 
and  let  them  heat  through.  Have  the  raisins 
seeded,  almonds  blanched,  add  the  figs  and  chop 
all  fine. 

ICING. 
Mrs.  R.  A.  Wilson. 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar  with  enough  water  to 
set  to  boiling.  Boil  to  a  thick  syrup  and  add  slow- 
ly the  white  of  one  egg,  well  beaten.  Pour  half 
the  icing  over  the  fruit  to  make  it  stick  together. 
The  other  half  of  the  icing  will  give  the  cake  the 
first  coat  of  icing.  Cover  the  entire  cake  with 
icing  if  desired. 

To  be  used  with  any  white  cake  recipe. 

CARAMEL    FROSTING. 
Mrs.    Gilmore. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
sweet  cream.  Boil  until  very  thick,  having  one 
white  of  an  egg  beat  stiff,  gradually  beat  the  warm 
mixture  in  it.  Chapman  &  Smith*  s  vanilla  flavor- 
ing.    Use  any  white  cake  recipe. 


CAKES.  137 

TUTTI-FRUTTI   ICING. 

One  pound  sugar.  One  gill  of  water. 

Whites  of  two  eggs. 
Half  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped. 
One-fourth  lb.  raisins  swollen  in  hot  water. 
One-fourth  lb.  citron,  finely  chopped. 
Boil  sugar  and  water  until  thick  and  waxy;  jiour 
into  the  whites,  beat  until  cool'  then  mix  the  fruit 
and  stir  it  in. 

CARAMEL   FILLING    FOR   WHITE   CAKE. 

Two  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one-half  cup  sweet  cream,  stir  butter  and  sugar 
together,  then  add  cream,  boil  all  together  until 
when  you  try  it  in  water  you  can  take  it  upon  your 
finger  like  molasses;  as  you  take  it  from  the  stove 
put  in  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  set  in  a  basin  of 
cold  water  and  stir  until  you  are  ready  to  put  it  on 
the  cake.     This  is  sufficient  for  three  layers. 

BOILED    ICING. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar  boiled  in  one-half  cup 
water  until  it  will  hair,  have  the  white  of  one  egg 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  keep  beating  with  the  egg 
beater  while  the  syrup  is  slowly  poured  in;  can  be 
used  at  once. 

PANSY   CAKE. 

This  is  an  exceedingly  pretty  cake  of  four  colors 
— brown,  white,  red  and  yellow.  It  requires  two 
mixings: 

Two -thirds  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  with 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one -half  cup  of  milk,  yolks  of 
five  eggs  w^ell  beaten,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder 
sifted  with  two  cups  of  flour.  Divide  and  flavor 
one-half  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  orange  water,  for 
yellow  cake.  To  the  other  half  add  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla  and  enough  chocolate  to  color  a 
good  brown.     Bake  each  in  jelly  cake  pans. 

T/ie  poetry  of  earth  is  never  dead. 


13S  CAKES 

Half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar, 
one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  with  two  cups  of 
flour.  Divide  and  flavor  one-half  with  half  a  tea- 
spoon rose  water  for  white  layer,  and  the  other 
half  with  a  half  teaspoon  of  lemon  and  re  ^  ^ruit 
coloring  which  comes  in  bottles  and  is  sold  by 
Scott  Bros.  When  the  four  layers  are  baked, 
place  the  brown  first,  then  the  white,  then  red, 
then  yellow— putting  either  jelly  or  frosting  be- 
tween each  layer,  also  on  the  top. 

This  is  very  nice  for  children's  parties. 

NUT   DRESSING. 
Mrs.  Wilbur  S.  Walker. 

One  cup  sour  cream  and  milk,  one  cup  granula- 
ted sugar,  one  heaping  cup  chopped  hickory  nuts. 
Boil  all  together  until  jell-like,  then  remove  from 
the  stove  and  w^hip  until  cool. 

ICE   CREAM   CAKE. 
Mrs.  O,  J.  Blackburn. 

Two  cups  pulverized  sugar.  One  cup  sweet  milk. 
Three-fourths  cup  butter.      One  cup  corn  starch. 
Two  cups  flour.  Whites  seven  eggs. 

Tw^o  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Put  together  with   boiled  icing,  using  two  cups 
sugar  and  two  eggs,  adding  one-half  teaspoon  tar- 
taric acid. 

POL.YNAISE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Eliza  Smith. 

Make  a  white  cake,  bake  in  four  layers. 

Filling  No.  1 — Make  an  ordinary  custard,  divide 
into  three  parts,  into  the  first  part  put  half  cup  of 
currants  chopped  very  fine;  flavor  with  lemon. 

No.  2— Stir  half  cup  or  more  raisins  chopped 
very  fine,  three  tablespoons  grated  chocolate; 
flavor  custard  with  vanilla. 


Wise  men  never  sit  and  zvail  their  loss. 


CAKES.  13^ 

No.  3 — Fill  with  chopped  almonds,  flavor  with 
lemon  and  vanilla;  sugar  to  taste. 

SMALL  CAKES. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Into  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  stir  until  smoota 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  turn  the  same  into  h 
spider  with  a  small  cup  of  butter,  cook  and  stir  all 
the  time  until  done;  when  cooled,  add  four  beaten 
egge,  beat  well  and  drop  the  dough  in  small  round 
balls  on  a  tin,  so  that  they  will  not  touch  one 
another,  and  bake  them;  they  will  then  probably 
be  hollow  balls;  cool  them  on  a  paper  soon  as  pos- 
sible, so  they  will  not  sweat. 

For  filling — Take  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  beaten 
eggs,  half  a  cup  of  corn  starch,  rub  them  smooth, 
and  add  a  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  it  in  a  tin  pail  set 
in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  stir  well;  when  cool,  flavor 
with  lemon.  Open  the  puffs  with  a  sharp  knife 
and  insert  the  custard. 

HICKORY    NUT  MACAROONS. 
Nellie    Reichard. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  One  pound  hickorynuts. 

Three  eggs.  Three  tablespoons  flour. 

Beat  all  well  together,  and  drop  with  a  spoon  on 
a  well  greased  pan.      Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

HICKORY   NUT  DROP    CAKES. 

Anna  Owens. 

Two  coffee  cups  sugar.  One  coffee  cup  butter, 

Three  eggs.  One    cup   sour   cream. 

Two  teaspoons  soda  stirred  into  the  cream. 

One  teaspoon  baking  powder  stirred  into  the  flour. 

Three  and    one-half  cups   of  flour. 

.One  cup  of  nutsv  Flavor  to  taste- 

14^1 1  IS  a  dangerous  weapon. 


140  CAKES. 

HICKORY   NUT  KISSES. 
Mrs.   H.  B.  Smith. 

Three  eggs  (whites,)  Two  cups  of  nuts^ 

Cup  and  one-half  pulverized  sugar.         ^ 
Grease  paper  with  butter  and   bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

CRULLERS. 
One  pint  milk,  Two  cups  sugar, 

One  cup  butter,  Three  eggs. 

Two  teaspoons  cream  tartar.  One  teaspoon  soda, 
A  little  salt.      Nutmeg  or   cinnamon,  or  both,  for 
flavoring.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

EXCELLENT  GINGER  SNAPS' 
Boil   together   one  pint  molasses, 
One  cup  of  butter,  One  tablespoon  ginger. 

Let  them  only  boil  up  once  then  set  aside  to  cool^ 
when  cold,  roll  two  teaspoons  of  soda  perfectly 
smooth  and  beat  into  the  molasses;  while  foam- 
ing, pour  into  just  as  little  flour  as  will  make  it 
possible  to  roll  out  very  thin.     Bake  quickly. 

PLAIN    COOKIES. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Babcock. 

Two  cups  sugar.  One  cup  butter, 

One  cup  rich  sour  cream,         Two  eggs. 
One  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  soft. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Babcock. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  One  cup  of  butter, 

Qne  and   one-half  cups  seeded  raisins, 
Three  tablespoons  sour  milk,     One  teaspoon  soda,. 
One  tablespoon  cinnamon.  One  nutmeg, 

Two   eggs,    three   and    one-half  cups  of    flour,    or 
enough  to  make  quite  stiff.      Drop  on  pan  to  bake. 

He  is  well  paid  that  is  well  satisfied. 


CAKES.  141 

GINGER  COOKIES. 
Mrs.  Geo.    Babcock. 

One  cup  butter,  One  cup  light  brown  sugar. 

One  cup  N.  O.  molasses,  One  cup  sour  cream. 

One  tablespoon  ginger.    Two  teaspoons  soda. 

Mix  soft. 

GINGKR  SNAPS  WITHOUT  EGGS. 
Mrs.  Mira  L.  Miller. 

Two  cups  molases,  One  cup  sugar. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  One  cup  butter, 

One  heaping  teaspoon  soda, 
One  teaspoon  ginger. 
One  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon, 
Flour   to    roll.      Don't    knead    much.      Bake    in 
-quick  oven. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 

Mrs     E,  P.  Clarke. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar. 
One-third  cup  lard,  or  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
One-half  cup  sweet  milk,  Two  eggs. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
One  cup  stoned   raisins. 
One  teaspoon  each  of  all  kinds  spices, 
Add  flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Duke. 

One  cup   molasses,  One  cup  sugar. 

One  cup  sweet  milk.  Nine  tablespoons  lard, 

One  teaspoon   each   of    salt,  cinnamon,    alum   and 
soda.      Mix  as  soft  as  possible  to  roll  out. 

GINGER  PUFFS. 

Mrs.   Henry  Ewing. 

One  cup  N.  O.  molasses.   One  cup  sugar. 
One  cup  water,  One-half  cup  butter, 

Four  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
One  tablespoon  ginger.     One  tablespoon  soda. 


Question  your  desires. 


142  CAKES. 

GINGERBREAD. 
Alta  M.  Claycomb. 

One  cup  molasses,  One  cup  sugar, 

One-half  cup  butter,         One  cup  milk. 
Three  eggs,  Two  teaspoons  soda, 

Two  teaspoons  ginger,      Two  teaspoons  spices, 
Four  cups  flour. 

GINGERBREAD. 
Alice  Duer. 

One  cup  sugar,  One  cup  N.  O.  molasses,. 

One  cup  sour  cream,  One  cup  butter, 

Four  cups  flour,  Three  eggs,    well  beaten,. 

One  tablespoon  ginger.     One  tablespoon  soda, 
One  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice. 

GOSSAMER    GINGERBREAD. 
Mrs.   Harry  B.   Smith. 

One  cup  butter,  Two  cups  sugar, 

(well  beaten) 
One  cup  milk.  One  tablespoon  ginger. 

Three  and  two-thirds  cups  flour. 

Drop  one  tablespoon  on  tin  and  spread  with 
knife  as  thin  as  possible.  Bake  in  well  but  not 
over  heated  oven. 

P.  S.  Use  pans  upside  down,  cut  and  remove 
before  it  cools.  Cut  about  four  inches  long  by 
one  and  one-half  wide. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 
Mrs.  Mary  Patterson. 

One  cup  molasses.  One  cup  sugar, 

One  cup   butter,  One  cup  sweet  milk, 

F'our  cups  flour.  Four  eggs, 

One  tablespoon  ginger, 
One  small  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,- 
Beat  the  molasses,  butter,  sugar  and  spices  to  a 
cream,  whip  in  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk  and 

Every  man  is  odd. 


CAKES,  143 

lastly  the   whites,   alternating  with  the  flour,  bake 
in  two  loaves. 

LOAF  GINGERBREAD. 
One  cup  butter,  Two  cups  molasses, 

One  tablespoon  ginger,      Two  eggs  well  beaten, 
One  heaping  teaspoon    soda. 
One  cup  sour  cream. 
Flour  to  make  as  thick  as  pound  cake. 

GINGER  CAKE. 
Theo  Sexton. 

One  cup  molasses,  One  teaspoon  ginger, 

One-half  cup  water.  One  teaspoon  soda. 

One-half  cup  butter.  One  i^g^, 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour. 

One  cup  raisins, 

Salt,  and   flavor  with  Chapman  &  Smith's  delicious 

spice  extracts.  .-J 

Beat  soda    in  molasses,    then   butter,  the  beaten 

egg,  one  cup   flour,  water,  then   second   cup  flour. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 
Mrs.  L.  Marks. 

Two  cups  bread  sponge.    Butter  size  of^egg,      LZZl 
Three-fourths  cups  sugar,  One  egg. 

Mix  soft  as    can    be    handled.        Let    raise    once 
then  cut  and  when  very  light  fryjin'^hot  lard.  2) 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs.    Mary  Pillsbury._   1       3 

Two  cups  sugar,  Two  eggs,    q3 

One  tablespoon  butter,    .  Two  cups  sour  milk, 
One  teaspoon  soda,  Flour  to  mix  well. 

Use  nutmeg  to  flavor. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Dlftenbaii ;  1. 

Take  light  dough  the  size  of  a  small  loaf  bread, 
work  into    this  one    cup    batter    and    lard   mixed. 

^m  I  _____    ^^.^^i — 

Jl7io  speaks  not  truly,  lies. 


144  CAKES. 

Two  eggs  beaten  in  one  pint  sugar.  Mix  tlior- 
oughly  in  the  dough  and  knead  but  not  as  stiff  as 
bread.  Let  rise  then  work  down,  lay  on  the  board 
and  cut  out  and  let  the  dough  get  very  light  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  adding  cinnamon  to  flavor. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Graham. 

One  cup  sour  cream,  One  cup  sugar. 

One  teaspoon  soda, 
Three  eggs  beaten  separately  and  flour  enough 
to  roll  nicely.     Use  just  as  you  want  them.    Dough 
will  keep  for  weeks.      Last  is  better  than  first. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Ida  Weir. 

Three  eggs,  Three  cups  sugar. 

Half  cup  sour  milk  with  soda, 
One  cup  butter,  Half  cup  lard, 

Make  thin  dough  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

BREAKFAST  GINGER  COOKIES. 
Mrs.  W.  T.   Wiley. 

Two  cups  N.  O.  molasses,  One  cup  of  sugar. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  One  cup  of  lard, 

Four  teaspoons  soda — one  put  in  the  milk  the  rest 
in  the  flour — One  tablespoon  ginger,  two  eggs, 
pinch  of  salt.      Roll  out  thick. 

JELLY  BISCUIT. 
Take  Boston  crackers  (they  are  the  best)  and 
drop  them  for  a  second  in  boiling  hot  water — it  is 
better  to  put  them  in  and  take  them  instantly  out 
— then  dip  them  at  once  into  beaten  egg  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard.  They  should  only  be  a  delicate 
brown.  When  finished  they  will  be  the  shape  of 
egg  biscuit,  the  outside  edge  curling  up  and  form- 
ing a  little    saucer.      Into    this    saucer   drop  a  tea- 

Unstained  thoughts  do  seldom  dream  of  evil. 


CAKES.  145 

spoon  of  jelly  or  preserve.  Preserved  figs  are  very 
nice  for  the  purpose.  This  makes  a  very  dainty, 
delicate  and  quickly  prepared  dish  for  lunch  or 
dessert.  Squares  of  bread,  lightly  browned  in  the 
same  way,  are  delicious.  If  using  bread,  substi- 
tute cold  milk  for  hot  water. 

TEA  CAKES. 
One  small  cup  sugar,    One  large  tablespoon  butter, 
Half  cup  sweet  milk,    One   Ggg  beaten  separately' 

Flour  enough  to  make  batter — about  one  cup, 
One   teaspoon   Chapman  &  Smith's  Chicago  Yeast 
powder,  flavor  with  lemon.      Bake  in  gem  pans. 

RAISIN   PUFFS. 
Mrs.  L.  M.  Dougherty. 

Five  tablespoons  sugar.  Half  cup  of  butter, 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  Two  eggs. 

Two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

One  cup  raisins  seeded, 

Flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cake  dough;    put    in  cups 

and  steam  one-half  hour.      Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

FRIED   CAKES. 

Mrs.  Addie  Morton. 

One  quart  flour.  Three  eggs, 

One  cup  sugar,  One  cup  milk. 

Six  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Six  teaspoons  hot  lard, 
A  little  flour  and  salt. 
When  all  mixed,  set    in  oven   and   heat   through 
before  adding  hot  lard.      Mix  soft. 


Ignorance  is  tlic  curse  of  God. 


146  BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 

Henry  Patterson 

Ill  and  113  East  First  Avenue. 

Jobbers  of  Butter,    Eggs,   Poultry,   Green  Fruits  and  Vegetables- 
i^  Try  a  few  bottles  of  the 

Celebrated  Colfax  Mineral  Water, 

For  $5  we  will  be  glad  to  give  anj-  one  a  Receipt  for  one  year's  subscription  to- 
The  Daily  Review:  or  for  half  that  amount  a  Receipt  for  a  six  months'  sub- 
scription. Or,  if  preferred.  Receipts  will  be  given  for  any  shorter  time  on  ^^- 
f^//>/ of  Ten  Cents  for  each  week  for  which  the  paper  is  wanted.  If  you  are 
not  situated  so  you  can  gat  Tne  Diily  Review  promptly  for  fiso  wa  will  give 
you  a  Receipt  for  one  year's  subscription  to  The  Semi-Weekly  Review. 
\/0  I  ID  D  tr/^  C*  I  DT^O  If  yo"  ^^'^^  ^'i^'^n^^Se  of  any  of  our 
IV-^Un  nCv/Cll  I  O  Receipts  you  will  be  in  Receipt  of  all 
the  news  of  importance  occuring  in  Monmouth  and  Warren  C^ounty,  or  in  the 
world  for  that  matter,  though  the  home  news  is  given  the  preference. 

Try  It  and  See.  REVIEW  PRINTING  CO. 


The  Photographer 

The  Largest  Gallery  in  the  City. 

Ground  Flour.  213  South  Main  St. 

THE  MODEL 

A  glance  at  our  stock  wiirtelljyoa 
at  once  where  to  trade.  ^  ^^^  3 

Fine  Clothing  ja  specialty,  ^ 

^And  headquarters  forQsnt's    FumishJng  ^Goods. 


PEN  D.  GOOD,  MAN'G'R.  MODEL  CLOTHING  GO. 


BEVERAGES.  147 


BEVERAGES. 


"  Anon,  we'll  drink  a  measure 
The  table  round.'" — Macbeth. 


GOOD  COFFEE. 

There  are  four  essentials  to  good  coffee — the 
best  coffee,  an  egg,  cream  and  a  clean  coffee  pot. 
The  coffee  pot  should  be  emptied,  washed  and 
scalded   and    dried  every  time   it   is  used 

Take  one  tablespoon  of  best  coffee  for  each  per- 
son and  half  a  pint  of  water,  let  it  boil  five  minutes, 
then  remove  from  the  fire  at  once. 

To  make  coffee  for  twenty  persons  use  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  ground  coffee.  Mix  with  ^^g  and 
cold  water  and  put  in  cheesecloth  bag.  Pour 
over  one  gallon  boiling  water.  Let  stand  where 
it  keeps  hot.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

TEA. 
Scald  tea  pot  and  put  tea  in  while  hot,  using   one 
teaspoon   of   tea   for  each  person  (if    strong   tea  is 
desired,)  to  one-half  pint  boiling  water     Let  stand 
a  few  moments  before  serving. 

ICED  TEA. 
Make  strong  tea.      After  standing  a  few  moments 
to  extract    strength,  pour    off   and  let  cool.        Add 
water    to    desired    stren-^-th.        Pour    over  cracked 
ice  and  serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

C.  Shultz.  Extract  of  Beef.      All  kinds  of  foods  for 

invalids. 


148  BEVERAGES. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

Pare  and  slice  good  juicy  lemons  and  lay  a  piece 
in  the  bottom  of  each  cup;  sprinkle  with  white 
sugar,  and  pour  hot,  strong  tea  upon  it.  Do  not 
use  cream. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Dissolve  three  tablespoons  of  scraped  chocolate, 
or  equal  parts  of  chocolate  and  cocoa,  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  one 
pint  of  rich  milk;   let  scald  and  serve  hot. 

CHOCOLATE— VIENNA  STYLE. 

Four  ounces  of  chocolate,  one  quart  milk,  three 
tablespoons  of  hot  water,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar. 

Cut  the  chocolate  in  fine  bits.  Put  the  milk  on 
the  stove  in  the  double  boiler,  and  when  heated  to 
the  boiling  point,  put  the  chocolate,  sugar  and 
water  in  a  small  iron  or  granite-ware  pan,  and  stir 
over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Stir  this 
mixture  into  the  hot  milk,  and  beat  well  with  a 
whisk.  Serve  at  once,  putting  a  tablespoon  of 
whipped  cream  in  each  cup  and  then  filling  up  with 
the  chocolate. 

The  plain  chocolate  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
vanilla,  but  in  that  case  use  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
extract  and  three  generous  tablespoons  of  sugar 
instead  of  one. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

Secure  ripe  berries  and  crush  them  ;  to  each  gal- 
lon of  juice  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  stirring  it  a  few  times  ; 
strain  and  add  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon 
of  liquid  ;  put  in  jugs  and  cork  tightly.  It  may 
be  used  in  two  months,  is  excellent  for  summer 
complaint,  and  can  be  taken  by  delicate    invalids. 

A  light  lie  art  lilies  long. 


BEVERAGES.  149 


STRAWBERRY  SHERBET 

Crush  a  pound  of  strawberries  into  a  basin 
and  add  a  quart  of  water,  with  a  sliced  lemon, 
let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  hours.  Put  one  and  a 
quarter  pounds  of  sugar  into  another  basin  ;  cover 
the  basin  with  a  cloth  and  through  this  cloth  strain 
the  strawberry  juice  ;  when  the  sugar  is  fully  dis- 
solved, strain  again,  and  set  the  vessel  into  which 
it  is  strained  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

TOAST  WATER. 
Brown  nicely  but  do  not  burn  the  slices  of  bread, 
and  pour  upon  them  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
cover  Let  them  steep  until  cold,  keeping  the 
bowl  or  dish  containing  the  toast  closely  covered. 
Strain  off  the  water  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Cool 
with  ice 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE. 
Pour  on  four  tablespoons  of  whole  flaxseed,  one 
quart  of  boiling  water  and  add  the  juice  of  two 
lemons.  Let  it  steep  for  three  hours,  keeping  it 
closely  covered.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Excellent  for 
colds. 

SLIPPERY-ELM  BARK  TEA. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  the  bark,  first  breaking 
it  into  bits  ;    cover  the   pitcher   containing  it  and 
let  it  stand  until  cold  ;   add  lemon  juice   if  desired 
and  sweeten  to  taste. 

MULLED   BUTTERMILK. 
The  well-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  added  to  boiling 
buttermilk   and  allowed  to  boil  up  ;    or  add  to  the 
boiling  buttermilk  a  little  thickening  of  flour  and 
cold  buttermilk. 

There  s  a  small  choice  in  rotten  apples. 


I30  BEVERAGES. 


BEEF  TEA. 

Mince  one  pound  of  good  lean  beef  and  put  into 
a  jar  with  one  teacup  of  cold  water  ;  cork  closely 
and  set  in  a  boiler  or  steamer  to  cook.  It  will  re- 
quire three  or  four  hours.      Strain  and  season. 

BOUILLON. 

To  one  pound  of  round  steak  add  one  and  one- 
half  tumblers  of  cold  water,  cut  the  beef  in  small 
pieces,  cover  and  let  simmer  until  the  substance  is 
all  out  the  meat,  then  strain  and  return  to  the 
stove  to  keep  hot.  Beat  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  turn 
the  broth  on  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.  Salt 
to  taste.  This  is  good  for  dyspeptics. 
CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Two  tablespoons  corn  meal  wet  in  cold  water, 
add  to  three  pints  boiling  water,  a  little  salt  and 
boil  twenty-five  minutes, 

CELERY  TEA. 
Use  celery  freely.       A  tea  made  of    the    leaves 
and  roots  and  used  freely  is  said   to    cure  rheuma- 
tism. 

BEATEN  EGG  FOR  THE  SICK. 
Take  one  fresh  egg,  one  tablespoon   of  ice    cold 
water,  one  teaspoon  sugar:  beat  very  light. then  add 
two  tablespoons   of  cream. 

OAT  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Add    to  one  cup   well   cooked    oat    meal   while 

hot,  one  cup   of  milk   and   one  cup   of  hot  water  ; 

beat  all  thoroughly   together  and  strain   through  a 

w^ire  strainer;   if  desired  a  little  salt  can  be  added. 

Boiled  milk  with  a  little  salt  added  to  make  it 
palatable,  is  one  of  the  most  healthful  drinks.  It 
sooths  an  irritated  stomach,  nourishes  the  flesh  tis- 
sues and  tends  to  make  the  complexion  clear. 

Kee/f  thy  pen  from  lender  s  books. 


BEVERAGES.  151 


REFRESHING  DRINK  FOR  THE  SICK. 
One-third    of   a   glass   of    raspberry    juice,    mix 
-with  two-thirds  of  a  glass  of  ice  water.        Sweeten 
to  suit  the  taste  of  the  person. 

Blackberry,  currant  or  strawberry  juice  may   be 
used  the  same  way.      All  are  delicious. 

FOR  DRYNESS  OF  MOUTH  OR  THROAT. 
Take   a  tablespoon    of   pulverized    slippery-elm 
and  pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  on  it,  sweeten 
and  ice  it.     Take  a  teaspoonfull  as  often  as  twenty 
ininutes. 


H.  Burlingim 

Keeps   Chapman  &  Smith's  Extracts,  Yeast  Pow- 
der and  Cleaned  Currants. 

We  are  borti  to  do  benefits. 


152 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


TN  COLL ECE 


nONHOUTH,  ILLINOIS. 


A3 


LttKH 


w 


opens  First  Wednesday 
in  September. 


FIVc  covir^e^  of  ,s<>jc|y,  lKcl\Jc|lKg  Mu,slc. 
iKtructioK  Ik  all  c|c)DaKtTr\cK<>s  by  <f\^^ougl\ly 
corTv^DC'tcK't  tcacKer^. 

-ScKcl  for  cataklogvjc  aKc|  o-tKer  iKfo^hxa-tioK 


to 


J.  B.  McMICHAEL, 

PRESIDENT. 


BREAKFAST    DISHES.  153 


Breakfast  Dishes. 


■'And  then  to  breakfast  with  what  appetite  you  have." 

—Henry  I'll  I. 


MOCK  SAUSAGE. 
Soak  dry  bread  in  water.        Chop  equal  amount 
of  any  kind  of  cold  meat  fine.      Season    with    salt, 
pepper  and  sage.      Make  in  little  cakes   and  fry. 

MUFFINS. 

Miss  Fannie  Adams,  Burlington,  la. 

One  quart  of  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, four  eggs  beaten  separately  very  light,  milk 
to  make  a  batter  thicker  than  griddle  cake;  salt, 
one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  put  into  the  milk. 

RAISED  WAFFLES. 
Mrs.  B. 

One  pint  of  new  milk  with  flour  to  make  a  thin 
batter,  add  one  cup  of  yeast,  two  well  beaten  eggs 
and  half  a  cup  of  butter  or  the  size  of  an  ^^^^  beat 
this  very  light  and  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
and  let  raise  over  night. 

BUNS. 
One-half  cup  melted  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  cup  yeast,  one  cup  warm  water  or 
new  milk,  half  cup  ''Rolling  Pin"  cleaned  currants. 
Beat  light  and  add  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  biscuit 
dough  and  let  this  rise  all  night.  Mould  and  put 
in  pans  to  rise  for  twenty  minutes  and  bake  for 
breakfast.      Add  a  little  salt  when  mixing. 

Lcve  all,  trust  a  few. 


154  BREAKFAST    DISHES. 

CROQUETTES  OF  COLD  STEAK 
Mrs.  F.    P.  Gilbert. 

Take  bits  of  cold  steak  and  mince  very  fine. 
Add  three  oi-  four  chopped  cold  potatoes.  Season 
with  pepper  add  salt.  Mix  this  thoroughly  and 
then  add  a  beaten  egg.  Press  into  cakes,  roll  in 
cracker  crum"bs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 
Boil  five  or  six  medium  size  parsnips  till  tender, 
mash  very  fine,  add  one-half  cup  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  two  eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  a 
little  salt  ;  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  hot  drippings; 
serve  on  a  hot   dish. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 
To  the  recipe    for   fritters  add  one   cup  chopped 
apples. 

Oyster  Fritters — add  oysters. 

MUFFINS. 

Sadie  Neville. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  tw'o  tablespoons 
sugar.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  very 
smooth,  two  cups  flour,  adding  one  and  one-half 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  siff  thoroughly,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  salt;  after  creaming  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  in  the  bowl,  mix  very  quick  and  bake 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  gem  pans  in  a 
pretty  hot  oven. 

PUFF  OVERS. 

Mrs.    Wildemuth. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  three-fourths 
cup  sw^eet  milk,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  Chicago  yeast 
powder,  whites  of  two  eggs.      Bake  in  gem  tins. 


Speak  less  than  thoiL  kiiowest, 


BREAKFAST    DISHES.  155 

A  SIMPLE  AND  DELICIOUS  MUFFIN. 
Mrs.  J.  W    Matthews. 

Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  mix 
with  it  one  tablespoon  white  sugar,  add  one  Ggg, 
three-fourths  teacup  sweet  milk, one  large  pint  flour 
with  which  has  been  sifted  one  teaspoon  Chicago 
yeast  powder.  Put  into  a  well  buttered  pie  pan; 
bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Eaten 
hot  with  butter  it  is  very  nice  for  breakfast  or 
lunch.  It  may  be  made  of  graham  flour  wholly 
or  in  part.  Buttered  muffin  rings  can  be  used  if  pre- 
ferred. 

SNOW  FLAKE  TOAST. 

Mrs.  Jas.  French. 

Heat  to  boiling  one  quart  milk  to  which  one-half 
cup  of  cream  and  a  little  salt  have  been  added. 
Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk.  Have  ready  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  when  the  sauce 
is  cooked  turn  a  cup  of  it  on  the  beaten  eggs  stir- 
ring constantly  so  it  will  form  a  light,  frothy  mix- 
ture, to  which  add  the  rest  of  the  sauce;  keep  hot 
but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Serve  on  slices  of  zwie- 
back or  toast  previously  moistened  with  milk  or 
hot  water. 

RICE  CRUMPET. 
One  coffee  cup  boiled  rice,  two  coffee  cups  flour, 
one  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
scant,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  pinch  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  Chicago  yeast  powder.  Let  rise  over 
night,  in  the  morning  lift  carefully  into  gem  pans, 
let    stand  fifteen  minutes  and  bake  quickly. 

A   TASTY   BREAKFAST   DISH. 

Take  a  few  slices  of  Morrell's    "Iowa's   Pride  " 
breakfast  bacon  (be  sure  and  cut  them  very  thin.) 

''Have  more  than  tJiciii  shoivest.'^ — Kino  Lear. 


156  BREAKFAST  DISHES. 

Cut  off  the  skin  before  putting  it  in  the  frying 
pan.  Have  frying  pan  quite  hot  before  the  bacon 
is  put  in.  Keep  the  bacon  turned  to  prevent  curl- 
ing up,  until  both  sides  show  a  light  brown.  Take 
out  at  once  and  serve  hot. 

RICE   BATTER    CAKES. 
Mrs.  Mary  A.  Frantz. 

Three  tea  cups  butter,  four  eggs.  salt,  one  turn- 
bier  cooked  rice.  Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  make  all 
into  a  batter  the  usual  thickness  for  batter  cakes; 
add  ore  teaspoon  soda  dissolved   in   warm  water. 

HASH    CAKE. 

Chop  fine  such  bits  of  cold  meat  as  you  may 
have,  add  a  double  quantity  of  potato  chopped  fine 
also;  mix  well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste:  eight  minutes  before  you  wish  to  sei^ve  the 
dish,  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  si:)ider  and 
when  hissing  hot,  put  in  the  hash  and  press  it 
dowTi  well  and  evenly  all  around.  At  the  end  of 
the  time  specified,  have  a  heated  plate  ready,  turn 
it  over  the  spider,  tip  the  latter  upside  down  with 
the  plate  beneath,  send  your  steaming  hash  cake 
to  the  table. 

WAFFLES. 

Margaret  Owens. 

Mix  well  three  cups  flour  with  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, one  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  Chicago  yeast 
powder,  one  quart  milk,  yolks  three  eggs.  Stir 
well;  add  last  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten. 

WAFFLES. 
Mrs.  H.  M.  Graham. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one 
teaspoon'  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  salt;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  batter; 
add  the  melted  butter  the  last  thing.  Bake  on  hot. 
well  greased  waffle  irons.  Serve  with  hot  maple 
syrup. 

Lend  Jess  than  thou  oivest. " — King  Lear. 


BREAKFAST    DISHES.  157 

CORN   MEAL  MUFFINS. 

Sadie  Neville. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
one  cu)  pastry  Hour,  one  cup  good  corn  meal  (fine 
ground),  two  teaspoons  Chicago  yeast  pow^der,  one 
generous  cup  milk,  two  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  stir  rapidly; 
the  eggs  must  be  well  beaten.  Add  salt  to  the 
eggs  before  beating. 

CORN   BREAD. 
Emma  Greg-g,  Chicago. 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  sifted;  one  cup  flour,  two 
eggs,  tw^o  cups  sweet  milk,  four  teaspoons  melted 
butter,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  two  teaspoon  yeast 
powder;  add  a  little  salt. 

BREAKFAST   DISH. 

Heat  a  can  of  salmon,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  place  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast,  heat 
a  large  coffee  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  salt  and  thick- 
en a  little  with  flour;  if  milk  is  used  add  a  piece  of 
butter  and  pour  over  fish  and  toast. 

THANKSGIVING   HASH. 

Take  a  dish  suitable  for  the  table,  place  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs  in  the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of 
chopped  turkey,  next  a  layer  of  oysters,  so  on 
until  the  dish  is  filled,  pour  over  one  pint  of  cream 
sauce,  bake  quickly  for  twenty  minutes. 

CODFISH    BALLS. 

Boil  potatoes  and  mash,  pick  up  codfish  very 
fine  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water,  let  stand  until 
soft,  then  add  potatoes,  having  one-half  as  much 
fish  as  potato,  one  egg  w^ell  beaten,  two  table- 
spoons cream,  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  fry 
before  the  mixture  gets  cold. 

*'Szveets  grozvn  common  lose  their  dear  delights.'" 

— io2d  Sonnet. 


158  EGGS. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Brown  bread  nicely  on  both  sides,  let  one  pint 
sweet  cream  come  to  a  boil,  add  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  a  little  salt,  pour  over  toast  and  serve  at 
once. 

BREAKF.AST   DISH. 

Slice  three  or  four  ripe  bananas  in  a  dish  and 
squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  a  good -sized  lemon, 
then  put  over  this  a  gill  of  ice  water  and  a  half 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  stand  where  it  will  get 
good  and  cold,  and  after  half  an  hour  it  will  be 
ready  to  serve.  The  lemons  take  away  the  natur- 
ally insipid  taste,  and  are  healthy. 


-5fe^ 


EGGS. 


"Things  well  done 
And  with  a  care,  exempt  themselves  from  fear" 

—  Henry  VIII. 


EGGS. 

Three  minutes  will  boil  them  soft. 

Five  minutes  will  cook  whites  hard,  but  not 
yolks. 

Eight  minutes  will  cook  both. 

To  boil  an  q^^  to  perfection  use  Camm's  egg 
cups. 

PICKLED    EGGS. 

Boil  three  or  four  dozen  hard,  remove  shells. 
To  one  quart  of  vinegar  jDut  allspice,  ginger  and 
two  cloves  of  garlic:  boil,  when  spiced  to  taste 
pour  over  eggs.     Nice  for  picnics. 

Welcome  ever  smiles,  and  far  cwell  goes  out  sighing. 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


159 


Premier 

Bgg  Cups 


The  Efrg 
is  in  it. 

Made  of  Cliina. 
Durable.    TiTtty. 
1  and  2  Eggbizes. 

No  Shells. 
No  Uncertainty. 

Pat.  June  13,  '93. 


E.    I.    CAMM. 


mm 


Ever)  well  regulated 
family  should  secure  some 
of  these  little 

Egg  Cups 

if    they   wish    to    relish  a 
good  wholesome  break- 
fast.     Considered   by 
all  epicures   as  the 
only  way  to  cook 
egps.      Sold  by 
BREAK  TITE  EGG  into  the  cup,  screw  E.  I.  CAmM, 

on  the  cover  and  boil  tlie  epi^  in  this  China  cuj)  Who  always  keeps  a  full  line 
instead  of  the  shell,  and  serve  the  egg  in  the  of  everything  found  in  a  flrst- 
saiue  China  cup,  class  Jewelry  establishment. 

MOTHERS! 

When  the  boys  need  anything  in   the  way  of 

CLOTHING 

You  will  do  well  to  see  our  stock,  as  we  always 
carry  a  large  line  in  Suits  ?nd  Overcoats:  also, 
the  MOTHERS'  FRIEND  WAIST  ^n  all 
grades.     Ask  to  see  the 

Boys'  Iron-Clad  Black  Cotton  Hose. 

In  HATS  and  CAPS  we  always  have  the  newest 
and  the  nobbiest  styles  in  the  market. 

.^••ALWAYS  THE  BEST  AT  =^8 


One  Pfice  to  All. 


PHILIP  NUSBAUM'S, 


i6o  EGGS. 

STUFFED   EGGS. 

Eight  eggs,  four  teaspoons  potted  ham,  one-half 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  creamed  but- 
ter, add  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  salt  to  taste;  rub 
yolks  of  eggs  through  a  sieve. 

BAKED   EGGS. 

Butter  your  gem  pans,  dredge  with  cracker 
crumbs,  break  an  egg  in  each  cup,  put  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  egg,  dust  over  with 
cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  in  oven;  turn  them  out 
on  hot  platter. 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

Boil  eggs  hard,  cut  in  two  and  slip  out  the  yolks. 
Mash  yolks  fine,  season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt, 
butter,  vinegar  and  mustard  and  press  back  into 
the  white.     Nice  for  picnics. 

EGG   SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  butter  evenly.  Boil 
six  eggs  hard  and  remove  the  yolks;  mash  until 
soft  and  add  one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  a  little 
vinegar,  and  pinch  of  salt;  chop  whites  fine  and 
mix  and  spread  on  bread.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes; 
serve  on  platter  with  parsley. 

BAKED    EGGS. 
Mrs.  W.  Q.  Bell. 

Delicious — Twelve  eggs,  boil  hard,  cut  in  two, 
take  the  yolks  and  mash  fine,  add  a  large  spoonful 
butter,  one  ci.p  powdered  crackers,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  milk,  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  put 
the  whites  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  this  mixture  over 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

POACHED     EGGS. 
Mrs.  W.  Q.  Bell. 

Serve  poached  eggs  in  slices  of  fried  bread  that 
are  previously  covered  with  the  finest  mince  of  hot 

Whafs  more  miserable  than  discoiitoit.'' — Henry  TY. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS.  i6r 

(warmed  over)  meat.  This  is  a  substantial  yet 
dainty  dish  for  luncheon.  Make  the  meat  a  mince 
of  chicken  or  turkey,  and  add  a  few  chopped  truff- 
les around  the  well-formed  eggs,  and  you  have  a 
dainty  French  dish. 

EGGS   SUR  LE   PLAT. 

Beat  two  eggs  separately,  spread  upon  the  plat- 
ter, then  drop  as  many  eggs  upon  this  as  are  re- 
quired at  the  meal,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
sprinkle  over  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  place  in  a 
hot  oven  for  a  few  moments  when  it  is  ready  for 
the  table. 

OMELET    FOR   BREAKFAST. 

Beat  four  eggs  separately,  into  the  yolks  put 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  ol  flour,  salt  and 
pepper  lastly,  add  the  whites  of  eggs,  bake  in  a 
deep  dish  about  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS. 


•I  warrant  there's  vinegar   and  pepper  in  it  "' 

—  7\i\-lftJi  Xighf. 


PICKLED   APPLES. 

Mrs.  J.  Shiiltz. 

Take  ripe,  hard,  sweet  apples,  peel  evenly,  cut 
in  halves  and  core.  To  a  peck  of  api)les  take 
about  two  quarts  of  vinegar  and  four  pounds  of 
sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of 
cloves  and  the  same  of  allspice,  all  unground,  a 
few  grains  of  pepper  and  a  little  salt.  Heat  the 
vinegar  and  sugar  together  till  it  boils,  skim  well, 
put  the  spices  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  and  add  to  the 
vinegar,  then  x^ut  in  the  apples.      Place  over  the 

C.  SJiiiltz,  Pure  Spices. 


162  BAPTIST  LADIES' COOK  BOOK. 

A  word  we  wish  with  every  cook 

Who  looks  within  this  precious  book  ; 

Each  Recipe  will  please,  we're  sure, 

If  every  dish  is  clean  and  pure. 

Before  you  mix  we  truly  hope 

You'll  freely  use  "SELF- WASHING  SoAP;" 

The  largest  bar  of  soap  in  town 

We  think  is  "MAPLE  CiTV  BROWN;" 

"Superior  German"  must  eclipse, 

The  same. is  true  of  "Laundry  Chips;" 

The  "Alpha"  comes  a  little  late 

But  takes  its  place  by  big  "Down  WEIGHT. 

We  make  these  soaps  much  work  to  save. 

And  "Barbers'  Bar"  for  men  who  shave. 

Now  if  you  would  be   neat  and  clean 

And  always  ready  to  be  seen, 

"Monmouth  Oat  Meal"  we  recommend, 

"Maple  Boq^uet"  will  prove  a  friend. 

With  "Cochin  Cocoa"  or  "Pine  Tar," 

Or  with  "Rose  Bud"  a  lovely  bar, 

Or  with  our  "AMBER  Glycerine," 

The  clearest  we  have  ever  seen; 

Or  with  our  "Maple  CitvTar," 

Or  with  our  nice  big  "FlYE  CENT  Bar," 

You'll  get  results  that  always  please. 

And  meet  your  guests  with  perfect  ease, 

Why  use  a  soap  of  doubtful  worth, 

When  we've  the  best  that's   made  on  earthy 

For  Maple  City  Soaps  are  pure 

And   they  will  please  you  we  are  sure. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS,  165 

fire  and  stew  slowly  till  the  apples  are  soft.    Then, 
take  out  the  apples,  let  the  vinegar  boil  down  and 
pour  it  over  the  fruit;  cover  and  put  away. 

CUCUMBER   PICKLES. 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Sisson. 

First — Take  small,  fresh  cucumbers,  put  into 
strong  brine  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
After  draining  well,  fill  quart  jars  (pack  closely.) 

Second— With  good  cider  vinegar  add  sugar  and 
cinnamon  bark  to  taste,  and  one  small  red  pepper 
for  each  quart,  heat,  bringing  almost  to  a  boil,  not 
boiling,  and  pour  over  pickles  each  day  for  three 
days,  sealing  closely  each  time. 

CUCUMBER    PICKLES. 

Mrs.  Nettie  Hess. 

Two  hundred  cucumbers,  cover  with  w^ater,  add 
a  pint  of  salt.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water, 
take  as  much  vinegar  as  you  had  of  water,  one 
ounce  each  of  whole  cloves  and  allspice,  and  a. 
piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Heat  all  to- 
gether, and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  cucumbers. 
Adding  sugar  to  the  vinegar  makes  nice  sweet 
pickles. 

CHERRY    BUTTER. 
Mrs.  Mary  Pillsbury. 

Wash  the  cherries  acd  stem  them.  Boil  until 
soft,  then  rub  through  a  colander.  To  each  ]3int 
of  pulp  add  a  pint  of  sugar,  boil  until  thick  like 
other  fruit  butters.  Can  them  or  keep  in  closely 
covered  jars. 

RASPBERRY    JAM. 

Raspberry  jam  is  much  better  if  one-third  or 
one-half  cherries  are  used. 

CRANBERRY   JELLY. 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  twelve  large  tart  apples, 
(greenings,  or  any  juicy  apples  preferred),  put  in 

FricudsJiips  full  of  dregs. 


i64  PICKLES    AND  CATSUPS. 

a  porcelain  kettle  with  two  quarts  cranberries, 
stew  till  soft,  then  strain  through  jelly  bag.  heat 
juice,  add  two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  it 
jellies.  Has  much  better  flavor  than  when  made 
simply  of  cranberries. 

COLD   CATSUP. 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  sliced  fine,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  let  stand  two  hours.  When  drained 
add  two  grated  horseradishes,  one  small  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one  teacup  of  granulated  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons black  pepper,  two  tablespoons  cinnamon, 
one  teacup  chopped  onions,  six  bunches  celery  cut 
fine,  two  red  peppers  without  seeds,  four  pints 
vinegar.     Make  cold  and  can. 

CHOPPED   PICKLES. 
Margaret  Holt. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  half  peck  of  onions, 
one  head  of  cabbage,  one  pound  of  white  mustard 
seed,  one  ounce  each  of  tumeric,  celery  seed  and 
cinnamon,  half  ounce  of  cloves,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  grated  horseradish,  six  large 
green  peppers.  Slice  the  tomatoes,  let  stand  over 
night,  sprinkle  a  handful  of  salt  over  them,  press 
all  the  water  out,  chop  all  fine.  Mix  all  ingredi- 
ents and  cook  in  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  un- 
til the  tomatoes  look  clear. 

PEACH   PICKLES. 

Mabel  Pillsbiiry. 

One  quart  best  cider  vinegar,  three  pints  sugar 
boil  slowly  five  minutes  and  skim.  Pare  fruit 
(free- stones),  put  in  the  syrup  together  with  spices 
in  the  proportio  i  of  two  teaspoons  whole  cloves, 
four  tablespoons  cinnamon,  and  a  small  jiiece  of 
ginger  root  to  each  gallon  of  fruit.  Simmer  u  itil 
the  peaches  can  be  pierced  through  with  silver 
f  )rk.     Fill  fruit  jars  with  the  fruit  and  set  in  warm 

'^Angels  arc  b?^ight  still,  though  the  brightest  fell.'' 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS.  165 

place.  Boil  the  syrup  until  like  thin  molasses; 
skim  out  spices,  and  fill  the  jars  with  the  boiling^ 
syrup.     Seal  immediately. 

TOMATO   CATSUP. 
Mrs.  Edgai-  MacDill. 

One-half  bushel  of  nice,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  jjut  in  a  large  kettle,  add  two  large 
onions,  let  boil  until  tender;  rub  through  sieve. 
]3lace  back  in  the  kettle,  adding  one  quart  of 
good  cider  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of  salt;  sweet- 
en to  taste:  five  cents*  worth  of  whole  cloves,  cin- 
namon, allspice,  mustard  seed,  black  pei3per;  put 
spices  in  a  thin  bag,  tie  up.  boil  them  with  toma- 
toes, boil  two  hours,  or  until  a  little  thick,  stirring 
constantly;  seal  tight  in  bottles. 

OIL   PICKLES. 
Mrs.  Eunice  Marks. 

Cut  cucumbers  in  thin  slices  without  paring,  one- 
fourth  peck  onions  to  two  gallons  cucumbers. 
After  all  are  sliced  let  lie  in  salt  water  over  night, 
then  drain  in  separate  colanders.  Three  table- 
spoons ground  black  pepper,  quarter  lb.  ground 
mustard,  one  red  pepper  cut  in  bits,  half  pint  good 
salad  oil.  Mix  oil,  mustard  and  j^epper,  and  pour 
into  as  much  cider  vinegar  as  will  cover  pickles. 
Cover  closely  to  exclude  air  and  keep  in  cool  place. 
(Good  thanksgiving.)  One  dozen  cucumbers  make 
a  gallon  after  they  are  sliced. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Adeline  P.  Holt. 

Half  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  and  slice  to- 
matoes and  stew  in  their  own  liquor  until  soft, 
then  rub  through  a  seive  fine  enough  to  retain  the 
seeds,  put  over  the  fire  and  when  it  is  boiling  add 
four  ounces  salt,  three  ounces  ground  black  pepper, 
one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  half  ounce  ground 
cloves,    and  drachm  cayenne  pepper,  one  teacuj) 

Kee/f  on  hand  ' 'Rolling  Pin'  Cleaned  Currants. 


:i66  PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS. 

sugar,  one  quart  good  cider  vinegar,  boil  down 
until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  burn- 
ing.    Bottle  while  hot. 

MEAT   SAUCE. 
Mary  Mason, 

Half  bushel  green  tomatoes,  half  peck  onions, 
one  dozen  green  peppers,  two  gallons  vinegar,  two 
lbs.  brown  sugar,  spice  to  suit  taste.  Cook  on 
slow  fire  two  hours. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 
Mrs.  Wm.  Mitchell. 

Three  dozen  cucumbers,  one  and  a  half  dozen 
onions  chopped  fine,  three  fourths  cup  salt  sprink- 
led over  them  and  put  in  colander  with  a  weight 
on  top  and  drain  over  night,  add  one  tea  cup  white 
mustard  seed,  one-half  tea  cup  ground  black  pepper; 
mix  well  and  put  in  bottles  two-thirds  full  and  fill 
to  the  top  with  good  cold  cider  vinegar;  seal  like 
any  other  catsup. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 
Five  pounds  of  grapes,  three  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  one-half  pint  vinegar,  two  teaspoons  each  of 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  half  teaspoon  cloves;  pulp 
the  grapes,  boil  the  skins  until  tender,  cook  the 
pulp  soft,  and  strain  through  a  sieve,  add  it  to  the 
skins,  put  in  the  spices,  sugar,  and  vinegar,  boil 
thoroughly  and  then  seal. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

Mrs.   James  French. 

One  quart  each  of  small  whole  cucumbers,  large 
cucumbers  sliced,  green  tomatoes  sliced  and  small 
button  onions;  one  large  cauliflower  divided  into 
flowrets,  and  four  green  peppers  cut  fine.  Make 
a  brine  of  four  quarts  of  water  and  one  pint  of  salt. 
Pour  it  over     the    mixture    of     vegetables.        Let 

Use  Maple   City  Soaps. 


PIC  KLES  AND  CATSUPS.  167 


them  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Heat  just 
enough  to  scald  it,  and  turn  into  a  colander  to 
drain.  Mix  one  cup  flour;  six  tablespoons  ground 
mustard  and  one  tablespoon  of  tunaeric  with 
enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste;  then 
add  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  make 
two  quarts  in  all.  Boil  this  mixture  until  it  thick- 
ens and  is  smooth,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the 
vegetables,  and  cook  until  well  heated  through. 
Put  into  jars  or  bottles  and  seal. 

SPICED  CHERRIES. 
Five  quarts  seeded  cherries  without  the  juice, 
mix  five  pounds  sugar  over  night,  pour  off  the  juice 
for  three  mornings,  boil  and  skim,  each  time  pour- 
ing on  the  cherries  boiling  hot,  the  fourth  time  add 
u^hole  spices  to  taste,  one  pint  cider  vinegar,  boil 
down  with  enough  juice  to  cover  cherries,  add 
<:herries,  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES. 
Five  pounds  of  the  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  half  teaspoon  allspice, 
half  teaspoon  cloves,  vinegar  to  suit  the  taste; 
boil  thoroughly  and  stir  often  to  keep  it  from 
scorching. 

WATER   MELON  SWEET  PICKELS. 
Linnie  Brewer. 

Pare  the  rinds,  cut  in  pieces  diamond  or  square 
shaped,  take  one  large  teaspoon  of  pulverized  alum 
to  as  many  as  you  can  cover  with  water  in  a  gallon 
crock — the  water  should  taste  well  of  the  alum — let 
stand  from  twenty-four  to  thirty-six  hours,  as  may 
be  convenient,  pour  off  the  alum  water,  let  stand 
in  cold  water  thirty  minutes.  Should  any  of  the 
pieces  be  soft  trim  it  off,  as  they  should  be  firm. 
Cover  with  water— may  be  warm  but  not  boiling — 
put  one  cup    sugar   and   several    pieces    of    ginger 


i68  PICKLES  AND  CATSUl'S. 


root,  let  simmer  but  not  boil  hard  until  the  pieces 
are  clear.  Try  with  a  straw,  as  they  became  clear 
and  tender,  take  out  in  a  colander,  let  drain, 
do  not  wait  until  all  are  done,  and  don't  put  all  in 
the  colander  at  once  for  if  crowded  they  will  mash, 
thak  in  a  large  pan.  When  all  are  done  weigh  and 
soke  as  much  sugar  as  fruit,  make  a  syrup  and  pour 
over  the  fruit,  do  the  same  for  four  days,  cooking 
the  syrup  each  day  until  quite  thick;  on  the  fourth 
day  add  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of 
stick  cinnamon  broken  in  small  pieces,  heap  the 
spoon  and  put  in  the  syrup,  one  tablespoon  cloves 
pounded  and  tied  in  a  cloth,  drop  in  and  cook  until 
it  tastes  well — if  you  like  more  spice  you  can  put  it 
in — put  in  the  fruit  and  let  heat  through.  Put  up 
in  glass  jars. 

WATER  MELON  RINDS. 
Pare  and  cut  in  any  shape,  pour  over  them  weak 
alum  water,  hot;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
pour  off,  rinse  well,  and  boil  in  clear  water  until 
tender,  make  a  syrup  of  equal  measures  of  vinegar 
and  sugar,  some  stick  cinnamon  and  race  ginger, 
boil  the  rinds  in  this  till  clear,  put  in  jar,  cover 
and  put  away. 

SPANISH  PICKLES. 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Seaman. 

One  dozen  green  cucumbers  peeled  and  sliced 
fine,  one  peck  green  tomatoes,  four  heads  cabbage 
small  and  solid,  one  dozen  onions,  three  pints  cider 
vinegar,  three  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  one 
ounce  celery,  one  ounce  tumeric,  one-fourth  pound 
box  Coleman's  mustard,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar.  Slice  all  the  vegetables  with  a  cabbage 
slicer.  Put  each  separately  in  a  weak  brine  for 
an  hour  or  two,  drain  in  a  cheese  cloth,  put  in  lay- 
ers in  a  kettle.       Mix   mustard    with   cold    vinegar 


CONFECTIONERY.  169 

adding  tumeric,  then  gradually  add  boiling  vinegar 
and  sugar.  Put  one-third  vegetables  in  kettle, 
pour  on  vinegar,  then  add  another  third,  etc,  If 
too  moist  do  not  use  all  the  vinegar.  Boil  slowly 
until  tender,  and  put  in  glass  jars  hot. 


CONFECTIONERY. 

'Sweets  with  sweets  war  not." — SJiakespeare's  Poems 


FONDANT  FOR  FRENCH  CANDY. 

Theo  Sexton. 

One-half  cup  of  water  to  two  of  granulated  su- 
gar; add  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  without 
stirrmg  for  ten  minutes,  then  try  by  dropping  a 
little  in  cold  water.  When  it  can  be  rolled  by  the 
fingers  into  a  soft  (not  a  sticky)  ball,  put  in  a  cool 
place.  When  a  little  scum  has  formed  over  the 
top,  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  becomes  a 
soft,  creamy  mass.  Then  flavor  and  mould.  This- 
may  be  used  as  a  foundation  for  any  French  candy. 
Nuts,  dates  and  figs  may  be  used  with  the  fondant, 
making  a  variety.  For  chocolate  creams,  roll  the 
fondant  into  small  balls;  let  them  get  perfectly 
hard,  dip  them  into  melted  chocolate  to  which  has 
been  added  some  of  the  hot  melted  fondant. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

Theo  Sexton. 

One  cup  N.  O.  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  (brown 
or  granulated)  half  cup  butter,  added  when  nearly 
done.  Boil  until  it  snaps  when  put  in  cold  water. 
Pour  into  buttere.d  tins  and  when  cool  enough  mark 
into  squares. 

A  good  nose  is  requisite^  to  smell  out  work  for  the 
other  senses. 


I70  CONFECTIONERY. 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  No.  2. 
To  the  above  recipe  add    one  tablespoon  vinegar 
and  pinch  of  soda. 

CREAM  CANDY 

Eva  Clark. 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water, 
four  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  teaspoon  of  butter. 
Boil  twenty  minutes  ;  when  removed  from  the 
stove  add  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla;  do 
not  stir  it.      Pull. 

FUDGES. 

Margaret  Dunbar. 

To  four  cups  granulated  sugar  add  one-half  cake 
Bakers'  chocolate,  one  cup  rich  milk  and  one- 
fourth  pound  butter.  Place  over  hot  fire,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  becomes  thick,  (but  Hot  hard 
when  put  in  water.)  Remove  from  fire  and  stir 
until  mass  begins  to  set.  Pour  in  pan  making 
about  half  inch  thick,  and  while  still  warm  cut  in 
squares.      (Vanilla  may  be  added.) 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 
Mrs.  H.  B.  Smith. 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  cold  water, 
three  tablespoons  glucose.  Boil  until  brittle,  then 
add  half  cake  chocolate  (melted),  one  cup  cream. 
Boil  again  until  brittle.  Flavor.  Mark  when 
partly  cool. 

NUT  TAFFY. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  vinegar  with  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  it,  one  cup  molasses,  and 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  till  very 
brittle,  drop  in  water  when  done;  add  one  cup  nut 
meats. 

Best  and  Purest  Candies  at  the  Ca?idy  Kitchen, 
Southwest  cor7ter  of  the  Square. 


CONFECTIONERY.  171 

MARSH  MALLOWS. 
Dissolve  one-half  pound  of  .gum  arabic  in  one 
pint  of  water,  strain  and  add  one-half  pound  fine 
sugar  and  place  over  the  fire,  stirring  constantly 
until  the  syrup  is  dissolved  and  of  the  consistency 
of  honey;  add  gradually  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
well  beaten,  stir  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  some- 
what thin  and  does  not  adhere  to  the  finger;  flavor 
to  taste,  and  pour  into  a  tin  slightly  dusted  with 
powdered  starch.  When  cool  divide  into  small 
-Squares. 

SALTED  ALMONDS." 

Margaret  Dunbar. 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  throwing  in  hot  water, 
then  in  cold,  and  stir  through  them  enough  butter 

to  make  them  seem  oily;  warm  them  while  stirring 
in  the  butter,  then  spread  them  over  a  baking  pan 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  crisp,  stirring  often; 

'•when  done  sprinkle  with  salt  while  hot. 

SALTED  ALMONDS  No.  2. 
White  of  an  egg,  salt,  stir  in  blanched   almonds 
and  brown  in  oven. 

SALTED  PEANUTS. 
[J Peanuts  may  take  the  place  of  almonds;  procure 
the  raw  peanuts,  shell  and  set  them  on  the  stove 
in  cold  water  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  stand 
ten  minutes,  drain  off  and  put  on  cold  water, 
blanch  and  treat  same  as  almonds. 


'To  persist  in  doing ivrong,  extenuates  not  zvrong.'' 

—  Troilus  and  Cressida. 


172  ADDENDA. 


ADDENDA. 


'Jove  and  my  stars  be  praised.     Here  is  yet  a  postscript." 

—  Tivelfth  Xig/it. 


CREAM    SOUP. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

Boil    chicken    until    tender;  if  too  fat,  skim;  salt 

and  pepper  to  taste,  make  thickening  as  for  gravy; 

whites  of  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  cream;  whip 

each  seperately,  then  stir   into  soup.     Serves  eight 

persons. 

OMELET  FOR  SIX. 
Mrs.  Eliza  B.  Smith. 

Four  eggs  (whites  and  yellows  beaten  separately) 
salt  to  taste,  mix  all  together,  have  griddle  warm 
and  greased,  pour  on  your  omelet,  place  in  oven 
five  or  ten  minutes  to  brown. 

PARKER    HOUSE3ROLLS. 
Mrs.  Ella  P.  Hanna. 

Boil  one  pint  milk  and  ccol  it;  take  two  quarts 
flour,  two  tablespoons  lard,  half  cup  white  sugar, 
one  cup  yeast,  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  and  let 
rise,  then  punch  it;  do  the  same  again.  Set  about 
9  a.m.;  about  4  o'clock  roll  out  about  one-half 
inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Put  three 
pieces  of  butter  in  each  and  fold  together,  pinch- 
ing the  edges. 

POTATO  SOUP. 
Mrs.  H.  Warner. 

Boil  for  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  just  sufifi- 
cient  water  to  cover,  four  peeled  potatoes,  piece 
of  celery,  small   piece  of   onion   and  whole  mace. 

Truth  has  a  quiet  breast. 


ADDENDA.  173 


At  the  same  time  boil  three  pints  of  milk,  when 
potatoes  are  cooked  mash,  add  butter,  salt  and  a 
little  pepper.  Take  milk  from  stove,  strain  pota- 
toes through  colander  into  milk,  place  on  stove 
and  boil  up  two  or  three  times,  then  pour  into 
tureen  in  which  you  have  a  little  grated  parsley 
and  three  tablespoons  whipped  cream. 

DEVILED  FISH. 

Mrs.  John  E.  Brewer. 

One  quart  hot  cream,  two  tablespoons  butter, 
two  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch,  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  half  saltspoon  white  pepper,  half  tea- 
spoon celery  salt,  a  very  little  red  pepper.  Scald 
the  cream,  melt  the  butter  in  a  quart  sauce  pan; 
when  bubbling  add  the  dry  corn  starch,  stir  until 
well  mixed,  add  one-third  of  the  cream,  and  stir 
as  it  boils  and  thickens,  add  more  cream  and  boil 
again;  when  perfectly  smooth  add  the  rest  of  the 
cream;  the  sauce  should  be  very  thick;  add  the 
seasoning  and  mix  while  hot  with  fish.  Bake  in 
shells. 

JELLY  PIE. 
Vie  Harding. 

Four  eggs  beaten  seperately;  one  and  half  cups 
sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  (half  cream) 
one  cup  jelly,  two  tablespoons  vanilla,  one  tea- 
spoon flour  or  corn  starch.  Stir  yolks  of  eggs, 
sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  cream  and 
jelly,  (beaten  fine)  vanilla,  and  lastly  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  If  a  large  cup  is  used 
this  will  make  three  pies. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Soak  for  an  hour  in  water,  scrape  and  wipe; 
spread  over  a  thin  batter.  Put  in  deep  dish  on 
sticks  to  keep  out  of  gravy.  Bake  six  or  eight 
Jiours;  remove  skin  and  batter,    sprinkle    with   two 

Hodgens'  for  Fine  Candies. 


174  ADDENDA. 


tablespoons    sugar,    black    pepper    and    powdered 
crackers.        Return    to    oven    to   brown.      Stick    irfc 
cloves  and  dust  withcinnamon. 

JELLIED  VEAL. 
Boil  veal  tender,  pick  up  fine,  put  in  mould  with 
liquor  it  was  boiled    in;    season    well    with    pepper 
and  salt.      Press  in  a  few  hard  boiled  eggs. 

VEAL  SCOLLOP. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  HoUiday. 

Mince  cold  veal  very  fine;  put  a  layer  in  the 
bottom  of  a  buttered  bake  dish,  season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Put  a  layer  of  fine 
crumbs,  next  veal  again  and  so  on  until  full.  Wet 
with  good  broth  and  put  on  top  a  layer  of  crumbs 
wet  with  milk  and  mixed  with  a  beaten  esrsf.  If 
the  oven  is  hot,  cover  with  a  pan  and  bake  half  an 
hour,  then  brown  ten  minutes. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Holliday. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  two-thirds  cup  of  vine- 
gar, one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of 
flour,  small  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  mustard  if 
desired;  when  these  are  beaten  well  together,  boil 
and  pour  over  slaw. 

ORANGE  SHORT  CAKE. 
Jennie  Mitchell. 

Three  teaspoons  baking  powder  to  one  quart  of 
flour,  add  two  tablespoons  butter  and  thoroughly 
mix  and  add  either  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Bake  in  two  cakes,  and  when  done  split 
and  spread  with  butter.  P'or  the  filling  remove 
the  pulp  from  a  half  dozen  oranges,  sugar  to  taste. 
Drain  off  the  juice  and  spread  pulp  between  cakes. 
-Serve  with  sauce.  Sauce:  One  pint  water,  one 
tablespoon  corn  starch,  two  tablespoons  butter,. 
one  cup  sugar,  and  if  preferred  one  well  beaten 
egg;  adding  last  the  juice  of  oranges. 


ADDENDA.  175 


MINCE   MEAT. 
Mrs.  Hugh  Marshall. 

Four  pints  chopped  meat. 

Four  pints  chopped  suit. 

Eight  pints  chopped  apples. 

One  pint  molasses,  One  quart  of  vinegar. 

Three  pounds  of  sugar. 

Three  tablespoons  cinnamon. 

One  tablespoon  of  cloves. 

Two  tablespoons  of  mace.  Two  nutmegs. 

Four  lbs.  raisins — two  large  and  two  seedless. 
Salt  and  a  little  pepper.     Citron  and  fruit   juice 
is  an  improvement. 

WHITE    LAYER   CAKE. 
Mrs.  Hiigh  Marshall. 

Two  cups  sugar.  Three  cups  flour. 

Three-fourths  cup  butter. Three-fourths  cup  milk. 
"Whites  eight  eggs.  Three  teaspoons   baking 

powder.     Use  any  flavoring  and  filling  desired. 

FRENCH   SALAD   DRESSING. 

Mrs.  Melville  Brewer. 

Three  tablespoons  olive  oil,  one  tablespoon  vin- 
egar, three  saltspoons  salt,  one  saltspoon  black 
pepper.  Serve  on  lettuce,  mixed  at  table  just  be- 
fore serving. 

WASHING   MADE   EASY. 
Mrs.  Melville  Brewer. 

Eight  ounces  sal  soda,  six  ounces  borax,  two 
and  a  half  pounds  Maple  City  Self- Washing  soap, 
ten  quarts  rain  water.  Shave  soap,  add  to  water, 
with  sal  soda  and  borax.  Heat  until  thoroughly 
dissolved — about  an  tour.  Use  half  cup  to  each 
pail  of  water  to  soak  clothes  over  night,  add  one 
cup  to  boil  in.  The  mixture  may  be  used  only  to 
boil  the  clothes,  washing  in  usual  way.  It  is  ex- 
cellent to  whiten  them  and  for  washing  flannels. 

'  'Modest  doubt  is  called  the  beaeon  of  the  zuisc. " 

—  Tro  ilu  s  a  n  d  Cres  s  ida . 


176  FRAGMENTS. 


FRAGMENTS. 

''A  good  Wit  will  make  use  of  anything,"  Henry  IV. 


A  GOOD  SUBSTITUTE  FOR  BUTTER,   AND  BEEF 
DRIPPINGS.      * 

Get  best  kidney  suet;  put  to  boil  in  milk,  allow- 
ing one-half  teacup  to  each  pound  of  suet;  lift  from 
bottom  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  When 
the  milk  has  boiled  out  you  can  dip  off  grease, 
which  will  be  of  a  delicate  flavor.  The  suet  is 
improved  by  soaking  a  few  hours  in  cold  water. 
Excellent  to  put  with  lard  in  frying   doughnuts. 

Pinch  of  salt  helps  the  whites  of  eggs  to  beat 
more  quickly. 

Dough  for  breakfast  rolls  may  be  kept  for  sev- 
eral days  on  ice. 

A  spoonful  of  vinegar  in  a  kettle  of  hot  lard  will 
prevent  doughnuts  from  absorbing  fat. 

A  few  pieces  of  zinc  put  in  a  stove,  where  you 
use  soft  coal,  will  clean  the  pipe  from  soot. 

Turpentine  mixed  with  stove  polish  prevents 
rust  and  gives  a  higher  gloss  than  water. 

Mica  in  stoves  can  be  made  clean  by  washing 
with  vinegar  and  water. 

CLEANSING  FLUID    (Fine.) 
Mrs.  Geo.  Wiley,  Chicago. 

Six  drachms  alcohol,  two  drachms  ammonia,  one 
drachm  oil  of  sassafras,  one  drachm  chloroform,  | 
drachm  pulverized  borax.  Mix  and  shake  well, 
then  add  one  quart  deodorized  gasoline. 

Fezv  love  to  hear  the  sins  they  love  to  act. 


FRAGMENTS.  i77 


Fresh  lard  will  remove  tar  and  grass  stains. 

Ink  stains  can  be  removed  from  the  fingers  by 
rubbing  them  with  a  match.  The  sulpher  will 
soon  erase  all  stains. 

For  washing  clothes  easily  and  securing  best 
results  in  every  way,  the  use  of  Maple  City  Self- 
Washing  Soap  is  heartily  recommended. 

The  best  cement  for  mending  china  or  glass  is 
white  lead.  Put  away  three  or  four  months  before 
using. 

Always  keep  mixed  linseed  oil  and  lime  water 
in  the  house  for  burns  Get  the  druggist  to  pre- 
pare 5  cents  worth  for  you. 

Apply  hot  water  to  a  bruise.  It  will  -prevent 
swelling  and  discoloration. 

Put  two  or  three  handsful  of  corn  meal  and  one 
of  graham  flour  in  your  buckwheat  cakes. 

5  cents  worth  of  Chinese  blue,  dissolved  in  one 
-quart  of  soft  water  and  kept  in  corked  bottles,  makes 
an  excellent   bluing,    and  will  last  a  family  a  year. 

Eat  oranges  and  cranberries  for  breakfast.  They 
are  good  for  the  liver. 

Give  your  children  plenty  of  broyvn  bread  and 
milk,  and  well  made  corn  meal  bread,  and  fruit  at 
meal  times. 

Try  a  teaspoon  of  kerosene  in  the  water  in 
which  you  wash  windows  and  woodwork. 

Use  the  white  of  an  egg  in  making  mustard 
plasters.  If  the  mustard  is  strong,  use  part  flour. 
This  will  prevent  blistering. 

Dissolve  copperas  in  your  drain  pipes  often  to 
clean  out  the  slime  and  grease  and  thoroughly  dis- 
infect them. 


Better  three  hours   too  soon  than  a  minute  too  late 


178  FRAGMENTS. 


For  starching  muslins  dissolve  one  tablespoon  of 
white  gum  arabic  in  a  cup  of  water.  Clean  and 
dry  your  muslins  before  wetting  in  this  solution.. 
Iron  right  side  down. 

TO  WASH  BLANKETS. 

One  ounce  pulverized  borax,  one-half    pint   soft 
soap.      Put  in  cold    soft    water;    soak    over    night. 
Rinse  in  two  waters  in  morning,    squeze    but    not 
wring  and  hang   up  without    wringing.      For    one- 
blanket.      Makes  them  soft  and  is  easily  done. 

Pour  sauce  arouud  puddings  and  fish,  not  over 
them. 

Everything  to  be  browned,  should  be  hand- 
somely browned,  not  burned. 

Pineapple  juice  or  grated  pineapple  added  to 
lemonade  is  delicious. 

Serve  rich,  creamy  buttermilk  with  cracked  ice. 
Healthful  and  nutritious. 

One  teaspoon  sweet  cream  in  frosting  prevents 
crumbling  when  cut. 

Pour  hot  water  on  raisins.  They  are  more 
easily  seeded. 

To  test  eggs  put  them  in  water.  If  the  large 
end  turns  up  they  are  not  fresh. 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


^l 

Teaspoonfuls 

-     make  One  Tablespoonful 

4 

Tablespoonfuls 

"     One  Wine-glassful 

2 

Wine-glassfuls 

-       '♦     One  Gill 

2 

Gills 

'*     One  Teacupful 

2 

Teacupfuls 

"     One  Pint 

4 

Teacupfuls  Salt 

-     -     ''     One  Ounce 

ij 

Tablespoonfuls  Gi 

-anulated 

^ 

Sugar 

-     make  One  Ounce 

Learning  is  but  an  adjunct  to  oneself. 


FRAGMENTS.  179 


2     Tablespoonfuls  Flour      "     One  Ounce 
2     Cups  or  I    Pint   Granulated 

Sugar  will  weigh  about    One  Pound 

1  Scant  Quart  Wheat  Flour 

-  -  -  about  One  Pound 

10     Ordinary  Sized  Eggs      *'       One  Pound 
A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 

an  Ggg  will  weigh  about    ij  Ounces 

2  Cups  of  Butter       -  *'      One  Pound 

1  Quart  Indian  Meal  "      One  Pound  4  oz 
40    Drops          -            -            "       One  Teaspoonful 

A  common  sized  Tumbler     One-half  Pint 
A  common  sized  Wine-glass  One-half  Gill 

2  Tablespoons  Liquid    make    One  Ounce 

I     Gill  Liquid  -  *'        Four  Ounces 

TO  SERVE  ONE  HUNDRED  PERSONS. 
Mrs.  Eliza  Smith. 

Ham,  16  pounds;  Chickens  6;  Turkeys  2;.  Oys- 
ters, 10  cans;  Coffee,  2  pounds;  Bread,  8  loaves; 
Saratoga  Potatoes,  8  quarts;  Layer  Cakes  5;  Angel 
Food  5;  Ice  Cream,  4  gallons;  Fruit  Salad,  fill 
recipe  3  times. 


* 'Praise  us  as  wc  arc.  tasted,  alloiv  21s  as  zve  prove.' 

—  Troilus  and  Cressida. 


i8o 


BAPTIST  LADIES'  COOK  BOOK. 


ESTABLISHED    A     QUARTER     OF    A     CENTURY 


M.  BREWER, 


IDI^UO^IST 


and  dealers  in 

Wall  Paper,  Paints,  Mouldings,  Stationery,  Glass, 

Etc.     Picture  Frames  and  Mats  made  on  short  notice  and 
at  very  reasonable  prices.          Call  and  see  for   yourself. 


Better  is  a  Dinner  of  Herbs 


On  clean,  fine  linen  than  all  the  dainties 
of  a  palace  served  on  an  untidy  table 
cloth 


We  Sell  Fine  Linens 


From    Irela-^d,    Scotland  and    Prussia. 


Cloths  by  the  yard  or  pattern  of  any 
longth.  Napkins  of  every  size  and 
quality »       • 

Very  Respectfully 

13.  \nl,  ti^FLI^E  g  ©O. 


Square  and  Broadway, 
MONMOUTH,  ILL. 


TRADE  WITH 


57  S.  SIDE  SQUARE. 


INDEX. 


INDEX. 


Soup,        -      -      -      -      - 

Fish,     -     -      -     -     -     - 

Croquettes,        .     -     - 
Oysters,     -     -     -     -     - 

Meats,     ----- 

Vegetables,     -     -     -     ■ 
Salads,    -     -     -     -     - 

Cheese,       -      -      -     -      - 

Breads  and   Biscuits, 
Pies,       ------ 

Puddings  and  Sauces, 
Ices,      ------ 

Cakes,     ----- 

Loaf   Cake, 

Layer  Cakes, 

Small  Cakes, 
Beverages,  -     -     -     • 
Breakfast  Dishes. 
Eggs,       ----- 
Pickles  and  Catsups, 
Confectionery, 
Addenda,  -     -     -     -     - 
Fragments,        _     _      - 
Weights  and  Measures, 
Directory,    -     -     -     - 


PAGES- 

9- 

16 

19- 

23 

25- 

28 

30- 

34 

36- 

47 

49- 

60 

62- 

71 

/3- 

75 

77- 

8; 

86- 

96 

96-1 

ti3 

114-] 

20 

121-] 

145 

121-] 

[31 

131-1 

39 

139- 

f45 

147- 

'51 

153- 

[58 

158- 

[61 

161- 

[69 

169- 

[71 

172- 

175 

176- 

179 

178 

182- 

183. 

# 


i82  DIRECTORY. 


DIRECTORY. 


"I  had  thought  to  have  let  in  some  of  all  professions.'' 

— Macbeth. 


Bates  &  Son,  China  Emporium,  dealers  in  Gro- 
ceries and  Queensware. 

Bosch  &  Co.,  Plumbers,  Steam  and  Gas  Fitters, 
220  South  First  street. 

W.  W.  Brooks,  dealer  in  Staple  and  Fancy  Gro- 
ceries, near  C.,  B.  &  Q.  freight  depot. 

H.  Burliiigiiii,  General  Store,  Fifth  avenue  and 

Third  street. 
Anna  Cassel,  Fine  Millinery,  South  Main  st. 

O.  M.  Dayniucle,  Dentist,  Second  National  Bank 
building. 

D.  D.  Diffenbangli,  Staple  and  Fancy  Grocer- 
ies, Fine  Confections,  Fruits,  etc. 

D.  H.  Evey,  D.  D.  S.,  Office  in  People's  National 
Bank  Building. 

O.  F.  FoAA'ler,  Meat  Market,  205  E.  Broadway. 

O.  N.  Hawley,  Dealer  in  Pianos  and  Organs, 
111  North  Main  st.,  Monmouth,  Ills. 

W.  S.  Holliday,  31.  D.,  Physician  and  Surgeon, 

208  South  First  st. 

Hoy  Brothers  Contractors  and  Builders,  513 
South  Third  st. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Johnson,  Dealer  in  Stamping  Pat- 
terns and  Fancy  Work  Materials. 

H.  A.  Johnson,  Jewelry  and  Optical  Goods. 
Eyes  tested  free.     105  East  Broadway. 

B.  MeNaniura,  Dealer  in  Staple  and  Fancy  Gro- 
ceries.    95  North  Side  Square. 

3Ionnionth  Gas  Co.  Gas  Stoves  at  cost.  Tel- 
ephone 37. 


DIRECTORY.  183 

Pollock  Bros.,  Caterers  and  Confectioners,  107 
East  Broadway. 

Keel  Star  Cash  Dry  Goods  Store,  Dry  Goods 
and  Notions. 

Peyton  Roberts,  Fire  and  Life  Insurance,  Main 
street  and  Square. 

Republican  Printing:  Co. 

H.  W.  Sisson,  Mdinufacturer  of  Harness  Special- 
ties and  Horse  Clothing,  107  North  Main  st. 

W.  R.  Skinner,  I.  C.  Meat  Market. 

W.  P.  Smith,  Dentist,  Over  Second  National 
Bank,  Monmouth,  Ills. 

Tred.  H.  Smith,  Watchmaker  and  Engraver. 
Rooms  over  Second  National  Bank. 

J.  W.  Springs  &  Co.,  Boots  and  Shoes,  106 
South  Main  street. 

Springs  &  Son,  Druggists. 

J.  D.  Sngg^s,  Dealer  in  Staple  and  Fancy  Grocer- 
ies, opposite  Iowa  Central  Depot. 

J.  Sullivan  &  Co.,  Hardware,  Farm  Machinery 
and  Plumbing. 

W.  T.  Steffen,  Cash  Meat  Market,  708  South 
First  street. 

Drs.  Taylor  &  Ebersole.  Homeopathists,  Mon- 
mouth National  Bank  Building. 

John  N.  Thomson,  "The  Fair." 

Dr.  A.  J.  Waid,  Dentist.  Teeth  extracted  with- 
out pain  and  ulcerated  teeth  saved. 

R.  E.  White,  Undertaker,  S.  E.  Corner   Square. 

Woods  &  Son,  Boots  and  Shoes,  North  Side 
Square. 

/ 


184 


BAPTIST  LAIDES'  COOK  BOOK. 


Blackburn   &  Turnbull 


Leading  Liverymen,  'Bus  and  Carriage 

Lir.e. 


Office  open  day  and  niight.   Calls  answered  at  all  hours. 


Special    attention  to   Carriage  work   for  Parties,  Weddings,   et. 
316  to  322  South  Main  Street. 


DON'T   FORGET 


THE 


MONMOUTH 


Lumber  Co.  0 


FOR — 


Ladd   Coal, 


When  You   Are    A  Cooking. 


YOU  CANT 

do  good  cooking 

without 

GOOD  FUEL 


THE  LAOO  COAL 


beats  everything. 


Try    It! 


< 
Q 


q: 

h 
0) 
la 


T     BI^O^?L.ID"'^7^^^"'2'- 


i&iifr 


Ou    '         w 

fc  tiv 


ft: 


FHE   .:.  A 


G02        _6 

Anthraci  ^  Bitum. 

S^-  .,  Baled  Ha> 


dil 


-I 


onmou**"    !*•. 


.^/ 


/SC/i        C/^.«w.        >^       ^Jh 

•I  ^ 

no    OG(J 

• O  R  . 

■—* 

FR^     »  E.   HARDIN O,           ,, 

P   .sident. 

W 

^'ice-P  - 

^- 1 

F.  W.  .iARJ     >Jt            H.  B.      'Ej_ 

I'ashier.                                \ss'v        bie» . 

Telle 

.\^ 


H.  H.  PATTEE,  D.  S.  x^aivoi.n,         J.  R.  WEBSTER, 

J.  H.    STEWART,      I.  P.  PILLSBURY,       C.   P.   AVENEW-,      W 
FRED  E.  HARDING. 


