*U         '  '  ' 


%<♦*  ^Mk  V*'.\«\  **-♦♦'.•* 


•    av*V    ° 


vv 


v 


Key 


wv 


*,& 


w 


^  -J 


THE  BAPTIST  COOK 


TX 

/ ,  y 


Compiled  by  a  Committee 
from  the  Building  Fund* 
Association  of  the  First 
Baptist  Church  of  Albany, 
Georgia     **     «s*     *&     «J* 


When  in  want  of  Clothing 
Tailor  made  or  Ready-to- Wear 

COME  TO  US. 

Ours  is  as  good  as  the  best. 

Fit,  style  and  quality 

guaranteed. 


S.  B.  BROWN  COMPANY, 

12  &  14  Washington  St., 

ALBANY,  GEORGIA. 


FOR  UP-TO-DATE  JEWELRY  AND  NOVELTIES. 

CALL  ON 

F»HIJUIv     HARRIS,         -         -      ALBANY,  QA. 

OWL  DRUG  AND  SEED  CO. 


THE 


Popular  Drug  Store, 

226  Broad  Street,     Albany,  Ga. 


Phones    250   and  514. 


WE  FURNISH  YOUR  HOME  COMPLETE. 

Every  department  crowded  with  up-to-date  durable  goods,  the 
kind  that  wear  and  look  well. 

Agents  for    "Vudor   Porch    Shades." 

S.  A.  &  W.  T.  FREEMAN, 

Rawlins  Opera  House  Building, 

ALBANY,         -        -  GEORGIA. 


fi 


arriijtftorfs . . . 

AST5gg  MEN. 

No.  113   Washington  St.,     ALBANY,  GA. 


R.  L.  Jones  &  Co. 

Successors  to  HOFMOXER,  JONES  &  CO., 

Albany,  Ga. 


Fashion  Leaders  For  All 
Southwest  Georgia. 


Dry   Goods,  Millinery,         Ready-to- Wear, 

Home  Furnishings. 

Samples  upon  request.  Agents  Butterick  Patterns. 

J.  M.  Mcintosh,  President.  B.  B.  Ivey,  Sec'y  &  Treas . 


218-220    BROAD    STREET. 

High  Grade  &  Medium  Furniture  &  Housefurnishings. 

Wholesale    and    Retail. 
Terms  to  Suit  Customer. 

ALBANY,      -     -     -      GEORGIA. 


THE 


Baptist  Gook  Book 


^s^^ 


Compiled  by  a  Committee  from  the  Building  Fund  Association 
of  the  First  Baptist  Church  of  Albany,  Ga.,  May,  1907. 


ii 


Gilbert  Printing  Co.,  Columbus,  Ga. 
1907. 


: 


UBWVHY  Of  CONGRESS 
Two  Conies  Received 

Copyright  Errtry 
CLASS  "<5L    XXc,  No. 

/77SV3 

COPY 


Copyright  1907 


THE  FIRST  BAPTIST  CHURCH, 


Albany,  Ga. 


D 


EDIGATION. 


By  way  of  expressing  a  most  loving  appreciation 
we  dedicate  THE  BAPTIST  COOK  BOOK  to  those 
faithful  and  much  encumbered  k 'Marthas,"  who 
have,  with  kind  hearts  and  diligent  hands,  spread 
upon  the  white  cloth  of  its  pages,  the  daintiest  and 
the  best  of  their  kitchen  knowledge,  to  furnish  a 
feast  for  a  cause  of  their  Lord,  which  we  happen  to 
represent. 

(Signed)    Mrs.  A.  D.  Yankey, 
Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom, 
Mrs.  W.  L.  Davis, 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

Committee. 
Albany,  Ga.,  May,  1907. 


"Cooking  means  the  knowledge  of  Medea  and  Circe  and  of  Helen  and 

of  the  Queen  of  Sheba.     It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  herbs  and  fruits 

and  balms  and  spices  and  all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in  the  field  and 

groves  and  savory  in  meats.      It  means  carefulness  and  inventiveness 

and  willingness  and  readiness  of  appliances.     It  means  the  economy  of 

your  grandmothers  and  the  science  of  the  modern  chemist;  it  means 

much  testing  and  no  wasting;  it  means  English  thoroughness  and  French 

wit  and  Arabian  hospitality;  and  in  fine,  it  means  that  you  are  to  be 

perfectly  and  always  ladies — loaf-givers." 

— Buskin. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


The  tnrn-pike  road  to  people's  hearts,  I  find 

Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankiud. 

PAGE 

Soups •  1  to       6 

Fish  and  Oysters, Uto    16 

Meats  and  Game 21  to    31 

Vegetables 36  to    39 

Cheese  and  Egg  Fancies 39  to    43 

Breads 48  to    55 

Salads 55  to    62 

Sandwiches 67  to    68 

Desserts 68  to    74 

Puddings  and  Sauces 79  to    85 

Pies 90  to    93 

Small  Cakes 93  to    97 

Cakes  and  Fillings 102  to  115 

Frozen  Desserts 120  to  125 

Preserves  and  Jellies . . . 130  to  132 

Pickles,  Catsups  and  Sauces 137  to  144 

Beverages 148  to  149 

Candies 150  to  151 

Invalid  Diet 152  to  153 

Miscellaneous 153  to  157 

General  Suggestions 157  to  158 


"T  7T  rRIGLEY'S  Juicy  Fruit  is 
v  V       the    chewing    gum    of 
quality.     It   is   Georgia's    favorite 
gum."   -— ^r 


(FACTORED       B> 


Wm.  WRIGLEY,  Jr.,  CO. 
Chicago,  III. 


Good  cooks  must  have   good  materials  to 
produce  good  results. 

POOR  FLOUR  MAKES  POOR  BREAD. 

Cheap  red  pepper  will  not  take  the  place  of 
expensive  Jamaica  Ginger. 

Is  made  from  the  finest,  selected,   Jamacia  Ginger; 
hence  its  distinguishing  excellence. 

When  drinking  Ginger  Ale,  be  sure  to  call  for 


^CADIAfl 


RECIPES. 


ABBREVIATIONS. 

t teaspoonful.  pt pint. 

tb tablespoonful.  oz ounce. 

c cupful.  lb pound. 

ssp saltspoon.  min minute. 

qt quart.  hr bour. 

doz dozen.  gal gallon. 

dsp dessertspoon. 


SOUPS. 


"Double,  double,  toil  and  trouble, 
Fire  burn  and  cauldron  bubble." 


Delicious  Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Boil  a  mutton  haslet  with  the  neck  and  shanks  until  it  drops 
to  pieces.  Lift  out  the  meat,  (from  which  a  delightful 
breakfast  hash  can  be  made),  to  the  stock  add  12  pepper  corns, 
6  cloves,  2  bay  leaves,  a  sprig  each  majoriam  thyme,  1  stalk 
celery,  12  allspice,  1  lemon,  2  tb.  flour,  rubbed  into  1  tb. 
butter  and  1  cup  sherry.  Boil  these  in  stock,  except  wine  and 
lemon,  until  well  seasoned;  color  with  caramel,  slice  the  lemon 
in  dice  in  soup,  and  add  wine  just  as  you  are  ready  to  serve. 
Should  make  enough  for  12  persons. 

Mks.  J.  W.  Walters. 


RECIPES. 


Creole  Chicken  and  Oyster  Fillet  Gumbo. 

One-half  of  chicken  cut  as  for  stew,  2  doz.  oysters,  1  tb.  of 
lard  to  fry,  add  1  tb.  of  flour,  1  onion  chopped  fine,  fry 
brown;  add  chicken,  fry  15  min.,  add  oyster  juice,  let  boil 
slowly  |  hr. ,  lastly  add  oysters  with  4  cups  of  water,  let  boil 
10  min.     Before  serving  dissolve  1  t.  of  fillet  while  in  the  pot. 

Note.     Crab  or  shrimp  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken. 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Lagerquist. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Cook  for  20  min.  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  pt.  water,  1  slice  of 
onion,  1  level  tb.  sugar,  4  cloves,  ssp.  of  white  pepper;  rub 
through  a  strainer,  add  3  level  tb.  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth 
into  tb.  of  butter,  cook  5  min.,  serve  at  once. 

Gumbo  Fillet  Powder. 

Take  very  young,  tender  leaves  of  sassafras,  spread  on  white 
paper  and  dry  in  a  cool,  airy  place.  When  dry  pound  in  a 
morter,  press  through  a  seive  and  keep  in  a  well  corked  bottle. 

C.    B. 
Bouillon. 

Six  lbs.  of  beef  soup  bone,  1  chicken,  slice  of  ham,  an  onion, 
2  sprigs  of  parsley,  1  carrot,  1  stick  of  celery,  3  cloves,  pepper 
and  salt,  a  gallon  of  cold  water.  Let  beef,  chicken  and  ham 
boil  slowly  about  5  hr.  Add  vegetables  and  cloves  to  cook  the 
last  hr.  Remove  from  fire  and  strain  into  an  earthen  bowl,  let 
remain  over  night.  Next  day  remove  the  fat  from  the  top  and 
take  the  jelly,  without  the  settlings;  put  into  a  kettle,  adding 
the  shells  and  beaten  whites  of  2  or  3  eggs,  let  come  to  a  boil  2 
or  3  min. ,  skim  carefully  the  eggs  and  skum  from  top  without 
stirring  the  soup.  Strain  through  a  thick  jelly  bag.  This  soup 
will  keep  for  days.  Reheat  before  serving.  To  improve  the 
color  add  a  tb.  of  caramel  which  gives  a  rich  amber  color. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Hilsman. 


PI  ANTFNF  ^s  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES. 


Caramel  Coloring. 

Put  into  a  small  pan  J  lb.  granulated  sugar,  1  t.  full  01 
water,  stir  constantly  over  the  fire  until  it  is  bright  dark  brown, 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  then  add  c.  of  water  and  pinch 
of  salt;  let  it  boil  a  few  min.,  strain,  and  put  away  in  bottle, 
cork  tight.     It  will  keep  for  some  time. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Hilsman. 

Shrimp  Gumbo. 

Two  onions,  1  tb.  of  lard,  3  cans  of  shrimp,  1  canofokra, 
1  qt.  boiling  water;  fry  onions  in  lard,  add  shrimp,  fry  till 
brown,  put  in  boiler  with  okra,  and  1  qt.  boiling  water;  let 
boil  |  hr. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Carter. 
Peanut  Soup. 

One  qt.  peanuts,  shell  and  place  in  oven  to  dry,  roll  fine,  add 
1  tb.  flour,  1  tb.  melted  butter,  stir  until  smooth,  add  ^  pt. 
hot  water,  -J  pt.  cold  milk,  and  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
add  peanuts,  and  let  come  to  boil  once;  salt  to  taste.  Serve 
quickly.     For  4  people. 

A.  N. 
Cream  or  Pea  Soup. 

One  pt.  of  canned  peas,  1  qt.  of  milk,  1  tb.  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  2  even  tb.  of  flour;  press  the  peas  through 
a  colander,  put  the  milk  on  to  boil  and  add  peas  as  soon  as  it 
boils;  rub  the  butter  and  the  flour  together  and  add  to  it. 
Stir  till  it  thickens;  add  salt  and  pepper,  serve  at  once. 

J.   S. 
Barley  Soup. 

Two  tb.  of  pearl  barley,  1  qt.  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
wash  the  barley  in  cold  water,  then  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  drain  it,  cover  again  with  boiling 
water  and  simmer  for  2  hr. ;  drain,  add  to  the  stock  when 
boiling,  let  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  10  min.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  serve.  J.  S. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES. 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

Cut  10  large  stalks  of  celery,  using  leaves  as  well,  into  small 
pieces,  cover  with  1  pt.  of  boiling  water  and  boil  30  min. ,  then 
press  through  a  colander.  Put  in  double  boiler  with  1  qt.  of 
rich  milk.  Thicken  to  soup  consistency  with  1  tb.  flour  and 
1  tb.  butter  rubbed  to  smooth  paste.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
When  served,  add  2  tbs.  of  whipped  cream  to  each  plate. 

Mrs.  Ewing. 
Tomato  Soup. 

To  one  can  of  tomatoes  add  a  small  pinch  of  soda  and  one 
pt.  of  water,  cook  until  tender,  rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  return 
to  stove  add  another  pt.  boiling  water,  tb.  rice,  small  quantity 
spaghetti  or  vermicelli  and  salt  to  taste.  Rub  together  1  heaping 
t.  of  butter,  1  t.  of  flour.  Add  this  with  1  tb.  of  Worcestershire 
sauce  10  min.  before  using.  Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones. 

Court  Bouillon — Any  Fish  Can  be  Used. 

Cut  in  thick  slices,  salt  well  until  salt  drops  off,  also  pepper. 

Take    1  tb.    of   lard,   1    large  onion  cut   thin  as    paper;    also 

parsley  and  young  onion  heads  to  fill  a  teacup.     Three   large 

tomatoes  sliced  thin;  the  shells  of  4  bell  peppers  cut  fine;  put 

in  different  piles;  put   sliced  onions  in  boiling  grease,  stir  until 

light  brown,  add  1  t.  of  flour;  stir  until  dark  brown,  add  1  cup 

water,    stir  until  boiling,    then  add  3    large    cups    of    water, 

continue  stirring,  and  when  boiling  add  tomatoes,    parsley  and 

onion  heads  (still  stirring);  salt  and  pepper  to   taste.     Drop 

raw  fish,  piece  by  piece,  in  boiling  pot,  cook  12  mins.,  then  add 

1  tb.  olive  oil  and  1  tb.  butter.     Very  important  to  stir  all  the 

time. 

Mrs.  James  Osborn. 

Chicken  Gumbo. 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces  as  for  stew;  salt  and  pepper  well.  Put 
in  pot  1  large  tb.  heaped  of  lard.  When  grease  is  smoking  put 
chicken  in;  (very  important  to  have  grease  hot).  Stir  well. 
Cook  about  5  min. ;  take  chicken  out,  leave  grease  in  pot  and 

Pi  ANTFNF  *s  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene  '  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  5 

take  1  large  onion  that  has  been  cut  thin  as  paper,  put  in  pot 
of  grease  and  keep  stirring.  When  light  brown,  put^  tb.  flour; 
stir  until  dark  brown.  Take  1  cup  of  water  put  in  pot,  still 
stirring  until  well  mixed.  For  6  persons,  put  the  above  in  a  1 
gal.  pot,  and  add  water  until  \  full.  Stir  until  boiling,  then 
add  chicken  and  5  cents  worth  of  ham  (already  boiled),  2  doz. 
oysters,  salt  and  pepper;  1  blade  of  thyme  to  flavor.  Boil  2 
hr. ;  flesh  must  fall  from  bones,  then  add  2  or  3  pods  of  okra, 
cut  fine.  (If  gumbo  fillet  is  preferred  put  1  t.  heaped.)  To 
each  plate  of  gumbo  put  1  heaping  t.  of  boiled  rice. 

Mrs.  James  Osborn. 

Consomme  of  Tomatoes. 

One  qt.  sweet  milk  seasoned  with  1  tb.  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  2  tb.  flour.  Heat  milk  and  stir  in  butter  and  the  flour 
which  has  previously  been  made  smooth,  with  a  little  water;  stir 
until  thick  and  smooth.  In  a  separate  vessel  put  1  pt.  of 
canned  or  fresh  tomatoes,  1  pt.  of  water.  Boil  this  for  lOmin., 
then  strain.  Pour  the  two  mixtures  together;  then  add  1  t.  of 
soda  (dry),  and  stir  very  thoroughly  till  well  mixed,  and  all 
bubbles  are  dissolved.  Serve  immediately.  This  will  serve  6 
persons.  Mrs.  Jordan. 

Soup. 

Always  use  cold  water  in  making  all  soups;  skim  well, 
especially  during  the  first  hr.,  there  is  great  necessity  for 
thorough  skimming  and  to  help  the  skum  to  rise  pour  in  a  little 
cold  water  now  and  then  and  as  the  soup  reaches  boiling  point 
skim.  A  little  caramel  added  to  the  soup  stock  will  give 
a  rich  brown  color.  For  seasoning  use  bay  leaves,  taragon, 
mint,  parsley,  cloves,  mace,  celery  seed  and  onions.  Soup 
stock  may  be  made  and  kept  for  many  days  in  the  winter  and 
from  it  can  be  made  various  soups;  stock  made  from  meat 
without  bone  or  gristle  will  not  jelly;  never  boil  vegetables 
with  stock  that  is  to  be  kept,  as  they  will  cause  it  to  sour;  1 
qt.  of  soup  will  serve  4  persons. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Pei'fect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  LI'L  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


6  RECIPES. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup. 

One  pt.  canned  tomatoes,  1  pt.  milk,  1  pt.  hot  water,  1  tb 
flour,  1  tb.  butter,  1  t.  salt,  |- 1.  black  pepper;  cook  tomatoes, 
while  hot,  strain  through  sieve,  add  £  t.  soda  and  the  pt.  of 
hot  water;  melt  butter,  add  flour,  be  careful  not  to  brown,  mix 
smooth,  add  milk,  salt  and  pepper;  mix  all  together,  let  reach 
boiling  point;  serve  with  croutons.  A  tb.  whipped  cream 
added  to  each  plate  improves  it.  R. 

Okra  Gumbo. 

Put  in  a  pot  on  the  fire  1  tb.  lard,  1  chopped  onion,  fry  a 
light  brown.  Fry  in  this  1  chicken,  cut  for  frying,  or  a  steak, 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Chop  3  doz.  pods  okra,  3  ears  corn,  1  can 
tomatoes;  add  salt  and  pepper,  stir  this  into  lard  and  onions 
and  fill  pot  over  half  full  of  hot  water  and  cook  until  thick. 
May  be  served  with  spoonful  of  rice  in  each  plate. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Collier. 

"Notchoway  Clam  Chowder." 

For  one  3-lb.  can  of  the  best  clam  chowder,  boil  with  a  small 
sliced  onion  for  15  min.,  1  pt.  of  fresh  water;  then  strain.  Add 
the  contents  of  the  can  to  the  onion  water  and  bring  to  a  boil, 
removing  from  fire  at  this  point.  Add  1  tb.  of  Lea  &  Perrin's 
Sauce  and  3  oz.  of  best  butter.  Now,  beat  3  eggs  for  several 
min.,  and  when  the  chowder  i.s  sufficiently  cool  not  to  curdle 
the  eggs,  pour  the  eggs  in  slowly,  stirring  rapidly.  Then  add 
salt  and  red  and  black  pepper  to  taste,  as  the  chowder  requires 
an  abundance  of  each.  C.  W.  Rawson,  Mayor. 


MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA. 


10  MEMORANDA. 


RECIPES.  11 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS. 


"Not  all  on  books  their' criticism  waste 
The  genius  of  a  dish  justly  taste." 

Fish. 

The  flesh  of  all  fish  out  of  season  is  unwholesome;  to  be 
eatable  they  should  be  perfectly  fresh,  the  eyes  clear,  the  gills 
red,  the  scales  bright,  the  flesh  firm  and  free  from  any  unpleas- 
ant odor;  and  to  secure  the  best  flavor,  should  be  cooked  as 
soon  as  possible  after  leaving  the  water.  They  should  be  scaled 
and  cleaned  as  soon  as  they  come  from  market,  washed  quickly 
without  soaking,  removing  the  smallest  atom  of  blood.  Sprinkle 
salt  on  the  inside  and  put  them  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 

Planked  Fish. 

Planks  of  seasoned  oak  or  other  hard  wood  an  inch  thick  are 
fashioned  for  this  purpose.  They  are  of  various  sizes.  Some 
have  wire  supports  at  the  back  that  admits  of  standing  before 
an  open  fire.  To  these  the  fish  are  fastened  with  two  or  three 
tacks  and  the  whole  set  in  a  dripping-pan.  Anew  board  should 
be  used  each  time.  Oil  or  butter  the  heated  board,  put  the  fish 
in  place,  skin  side  down;  brush  fish  with  oil  or  butter,  and 
season  with  salt.  Bake  about  25  min.,  basting  frequently  with 
melted  butter.  Serve  the  fish  on  the  plank  laid  on  a  serving- 
dish.  Fill  the  spaces  between  the  fish  and  edge  of  the  board 
with  parsley  or  mashed  potato.  To  put  the  latter  in  place,  use 
a  pastry-bag  and  tube.  Brush  over  the  potato  with  beaten 
yolk  of  egg;  dilute  with  milk  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown 
the  potato.  Saratoga  potatoes,  radishes  and  slices  of  lemon  are 
the  garnishes.  Spread  the  fish  with  butter  just  before  sending 
to  the  table.  B.  M. 

PIANTFNF  *Sa  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


12  RECIPES. 


Baked  Fish. 

Take  a  large  fish,  nicely  cleaned,  put  in  baking  pan,  and 
pour  over  it  2h  c.  of  water,  then  put  pepper,  salt,  spice  to  suit 
taste;  1  onion  and  §  c.  butter,  bake  30  or  40  rain. 

Fish  au  Gratin. 

Sheepshead,  Bed  Flounder  or  Bed  Snapper,  may  be  used. 

Scald,  wash,  have  whole  and  salt  good  all  over  until  it  falls 
off,  then  lay  in  baking  pan.  Put  on  fish  in  dabs,  \  lb.  buttery 
3  medium  size  tomatoes,  (sliced)  also  in  pan  1  or  2  lemons 
same  way,  then  juice  of  1  lemon;  1  qt.  of  French  canned 
mushrooms  chopped  fine,  (leave  liquid  out)  put  all  over  fish;, 
also  2  doz.  oysters  chopped  fine.  Pour  over  all  \  pt.  white 
wine.  Put  in  oven  not  too  hot.  Cook  f  of  an  hr.  To  be  sure 
it  is  ready  to  serve  pass  fork  into  flesh  at  backbone,  and  if 
easily  raised  it  is  ready,  and  if  stuoborn,  cook  longer. 

Mrs.  James  Osborn. 

Broiled  Pom  pa  no. 

Salt  well,  butter  thick,  both  sides  like  you  would  bread,  dust 
with  black  pepper,  baste  while  broiling  with  juice  of  1  large 
lemon.  When  ready  to  serve  put  sliced  lemon  and  parsley 
over  and  around  the  fish. 

Mrs.  James  Osborn. 

Deviled  Crabs. 

Saute'  \  of  a  c.  of  chopped  mushroom  in  3  tb.  of  butter  5 
rain. ;  sprinkle  in  2  tb.  of  flour,  and  when  blended  add  §  of  a  c. 
of  stock.  When  the  mixture  boils  add  a  c.  of  chopped  crab  meat, 
a  t.  of  chopped  parsley,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  season 
quite  high  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  the  mixture  into  crab 
shells  trimmed  and  cleaned,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  melted  butter.  Bake  until  the  crumbs 
are  browned.  Boston  Cooking  School. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  L-liL.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  13 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

Take  the  contents  of  1  can  of  salmon  and  mince  very  fine, 
taking  out  all  the  bones,  add  1  large  size  Irish  potato,  cooked 
soft,  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Shape  into  croquettes  and 
roll  in  meal  or  cracker  crumbs,  then  fry  in  plantene  or  lard  to 
a  light  brown.  Mrs.  W.  M.  Brooks. 

Codfish  Croquettes. 

1  pt.  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  2  tb.  codfish,  boiled  and 
mashed,  stir  in  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  fry  brown. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Wooten. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

Strain  oysters  and  liquor  free  from  shell,  and  set  on  the  fire 
in  a  saucepan  for  5  min.  until  oysters  plump  up;  then  take 
them  out  and  keep  hot  over  steam  to  prevent  getting  hard. 
Stir  in  liquor,  butter  and  flour  together,  1  heaping  tb.  of 
flour  and  1  scant  tb.  of  butter  to  1  qt.  of  oysters.  Season  with 
cayenne  and  a  little  lime  juice,  stir  well  and  boil  10  min.,  then 
add  oysters  and  serve. 

Scolloped  Salmon. 

Shred  1  can  of  salmon,  place  in  a  baking  dish  in  layers,  first 
a  layer  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  then  1  of  salmon,  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  repeat  until  dish  is  nearly  filled,  then  take  1  tb. 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  rub  to  smooth  paste  and  stir  it  into  1 
c.  boiling  milk.  When  thoroughly  cooked  stir  in  1  beaten  egg 
and  pour  this  over  the  dish  and  bake.     When  brown  it's  done. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Gannaway. 

Shrimp  Patties. 

One  can  shrimp,  1  tb.  flour,  1  tb.  butter  (heaping),  1  c. 
sweet  milk,  1  tb.  chopped  parsley.  Season  with  salt  and 
Cayenne  pepper.  Put  milk  and  butter  together;  when  it  boils 
stir  in  the  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.      Let   cook    (stirring 

PI  ANTFNF  is  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  l_ni!  I  L.ML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES. 

constantly)  to  a  thick  cream;  while  hot  pour  it  over  the  shrimp 
and  mix  well.  Put  in  baking-dish  or  ramekins.  Cover  with 
cracker-dust,  brown  and  serve  with  sliced  lemon. 

Mrs.  P.  L.  Hilsman. 

Cod  Fish  Souffle. 

Soak  over  night  \  lb.  codfish,  next  morning  drain,  add  it  to 
1  pt.  mashed  potatoes,  4  tbs.  of  hot  milk  and  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
mix  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  ;  put  into 
the  individual  cups  or  a  baking  dish.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
from  5  to  15  min. 

Mock  Fish. 

Grind  1  pt.  of  mixed  nuts,  mix  with  them  1  pt.  cold  boiled 
hominy,  \  c.  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  3  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine,  1  tb.  chopped  parsley,  1  tb.  grated  onion,  1  raw  egg; 
make  this  into  the  form  of  a  fish,  place  on  a  greased  paper, 
bake  and  bast  in  a  quick  oven  for  30  min. ;  while  it  is  baking, 
cut  into  strips  and  slightly  brown  12  almonds;  when  the  fish  is 
done  garnish  dish  with  parsley  and  quarters  of  lemon,  stick  in 
the  brown  almonds  to  represent  fins  and  make  an  eye,  useing  a 
trifle  of  something  at  hand.       Serve  with  hollandise  sauce. 

Salmon  Mould. 

1  can  of  salmon,  4  eggs  beaten  light,  4  tb.  of  melted  butter, 
(not  hot)  \  c.  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  salt^  pepper 
and  minced  parsley;  chop  the  fish  fine,  rub  the  butter  until 
smooth,  beat  the  crumbs  with  the  eggs,  and  season  before 
working  together.  Put  in  a  buttered  bowl  and  steam  1  hr. 
This  should  be  served  with  a  sauce  of  melted  butter  and  lemon 
juice.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Sauce  for  fleat  or  Fish. 

Place  over  the  fire  in  frying  pan  1  tb.  lard,  1  onion  cut  up 
fine,  fry  until  light  brown,  then  add  1  can  tomatoes,  2  tb.  of 
browned  flour,  1  t.  mustard,  1  t.  butter,  \  cup  water  or  stock, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mrs.  B.  H.  Collier. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  LIlL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


EECIPES.  15 


Oyster  Stew. 

To  1  qt.  of  oysters  use  \  lb.  of  butter.  Look  over  the  oysters 
and  pick  out  any  bits  of  shell;  place  in  a  stew-pan  with  the 
butter.  In  another  stew-pan  put  1  pt.  of  fresh  milk.  Make 
paste  of  1  tb.  of  flour,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg  as  much  as  you  can  lay  on  the  point  of  a  pen- 
knife; thin  this  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  when  the  milk  in 
the  stew-pan  boils  up,  put  in  ^  t.  salt  and  gradually  pour  in  the 
paste,  stirring  thoroughly.  Have  the  tureen  ready  with  J  lb. 
of  crackers  or  less  in  it.  Take  up  the  oysters  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  curl  on  the  edges  and  place  in  the  tureen ;  then  pour 
the  oyster  liquor  into  the  milk,  and  salt  to  taste.  When  it 
boils  up  once  more,  pour  over  oysters  and  serve. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Davis. 

To  Fry  Oysters. 

Pick  over  and  drain  the  oysters,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Do  not  lift  them  with  a  fork,  but  carefully  with  the  fingers. 
Beat  up  an  egg  in  a  saucer,  add  1  tb.  boiling  water  and  \  t. 
salt.  Dip  the  oysters  1  by  1,  first  in  the  bread  crumbs,  then 
in  egg,  then  again  in  the  crumbs,  covering  every  part  carefully, 
press  lightly  with  the  hands.  Put  a  deep  frying  pan  over  the 
fire  with  enough  plantene  to  immerse  them.  When  hot  enough 
put  in  6  or  8  oysters  at  a  time.  When  a  golden  brown,  lay 
them  on  soft,  brown  paper  to  drain,  and  so  continue  till  all  are 
fried.  Be  sure  to  put  plantene  in  cold  pan  and  heat  up 
gradually.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Deviled  Oysters. 

Chop  1  qt.  oysters,  add  1  pt.  of  soft  bread  crumbs,  (more  if 
mixture  seems  too  soft,)  1  tb.  grated  onion,  1  tb.  of  lemon  juice, 
\q.  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  also  little  mustard  if  desired. 
Heat  over  fire,  then  add  4  raw  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  turn  into  buttered   shells  or   paper  cases, 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  Lnll  I  [.III.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


16  RECIPES. 

-cover  with  1  c.  of  cracker  crumbs  stirred  into  \  c.  of  melted 
butter.  Set  in  oven  long  enough  to  brown  the  crumbs  well. 
This  can  be  put  into  a  baking  disk  if  preferred,  covered  with 
the  buttered  crumbs  and  baked.  ,  Mrs.  Wm.  Lockett. 

Oyster  Cocktail. 

Four  tb.  tomato  catsup,  1  tb.  peppervinegar,  1  tb.  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  juice  2  lemons,  4  or  5  drops  tabasco  sauce;  salt 
to  taste;  1  c.  oyster  liquor  well  strained,  1  t.  evaporated  horse- 
radish. Mix  the  cocktail  fully  \  hour  before  serving.  This  is 
sufficient  for  100  small  oysters. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Macaroni  and  Oysters. 

Cook  1  c.  macaroni  in  boiling  salt  water.  Put  in  a  baking 
dish  a  layer  of  the  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkled 
with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  then  layer  of 
macaroni,  then  oysters  until  the  dish  is  full.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  of  1  tb.  flour,  2  tb.  of  butter,  1  c.  milk  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  then  pour  over  the  oysters  and 
macaroni.     Put  in  stove  and  bake  about  20  min. 

A.  D.  Yankey. 


MEMORANDA.  17 


18  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  19 


20  MEMORANDA. 


RECIPES.  21 


MEATS. 

"  Some  hae  meat  and  cannae  eat, 
And  some  would  eat  that  want  it; 
But  we  hae  meat  and  we  can  eat 
So  let  the  Lord  be  thanket." 

To  Boil  Ham. 

Wash  and  put  to  soak  over  night.  In  morning  put  in  boiler, 
skin  side  down,  and  cover  well  with  cold  water.  From  the 
time  it  begins  to  boil  allow  15  min.  to  the  pound.  For  instance, 
if  the  ham  weighs  10  lbs. ,  let  it  boil  2J  hrs.  When  half  done 
turn  it  over  in  the  boiler.  Be  sure  to  keep  well  covered  with 
boiling  water.  When  done  set  the  boiler  off  and  let  ham  stay  in 
the  water  until  it  gets  cold.     This  recipe  is  tried  and  true. 

Sallie  Steele  Mcintosh. 

Meats  and  Game. 

In  cooking  meats  our  object  is  to  retain  the  nourishment  and 
flavor,  consequently  we  must  follow  directions  exactly  the 
opposite  from  those  of  making  soup.  The  flavor  and  juices 
of  meat  depend  as  much  upon  the  method  of  cooking  as  upon 
the  quality  of  the  meat.  If  cold  water  and  a  moderate  heat 
will  soften  the  fiber  and  draw  out  the  juices,  boiling  water  or  a 
strong,  dry  heat  will  retain  them,  by  coagulating  the  albumen 
on  the  surface  and  to  a  certain  depth  within,  thus  enclosing  the 
meat  within  a  waterproof  case  or  crust  which  neither  permits 
the  juices  to  flow  out  nor  the  water  to  penetrate  within;  in  this 
way  only  is  meat  juicy  and  well  flavored. 

Pot  Roast. 

Five  lb.  beef  roast,  1  qt.  boiling  water,  1  pod  red  pepper,  1 
tb.  salt.  Place  meat  in  kettle  over  a  good  fire,  brown  on  one 
side,  turn  and  brown    on  the   other.     Now,    add  the  boiling 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Pei"f ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnM  I  L.ML.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


22  RECIPES. 

water,  salt  and  pepper;  cover  and  cook  slowly  15  rnin.  to 
every  lb.  After  the  water  evaporates  add  no  more,  as  there 
should  be  fat  enough  to  finish  cooking  the  meat.  Serve  with 
brown  sauce.  Mrs.  L.  Rawlings. 

Meat  Croquettes. 

To  about  1  pt.  cold  beef  or  pork,  add  .1  large  onion,  2  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  a  few  crackers,  small  sprigs  of  celery.  Put  all 
through  chopper,  add  salt,  pepper,  1  egg,  1  tb.  of  Worcestershire 
Sauce,  a  little  flour  and  gravy  to  moisten;  mix  all,  roll  in  cakes 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  Posey. 

Brunswick  Stew. 

Four  lb.  lean  pork,  boil  until  tender,  cut  fine,  put  back  into 
same  water,  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  can  corn,  1  slice  lemon, 
3  Irish  potatoes,  1  pod  red  pepper,  1  large  onion,  1  tb.  tomato 
catsup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stew  until  thick. 

Mrs.  James  T.  Grimes. 

A  la  Creole  Steak. 

Two  ozs.  butter,  1  large  onion  chopped  fine,  1  can  tomatoes 
or  4  fresh  ones,  small  bit  of  red  pepper,  \  t.  black  pepper, 
salt  to  taste  ;  2  tbs.  chopped  parsley,  a  bit  of  garlic  if  the  flavor 
is  liked  ;  fry  onions  in  the  butter  till  they  are  a  golden  brown, 
then  add  the  tomatoes,  pepper,  salt  and  parsley  and  cook 
slowly  about  20  mins.  If  garlic  is  used,  do  not  put  in  till 
onions  are  nearly  done  ;  broil  a  good  sirloin  steak  as  usual  and 
pour  this  sauce  over  it  ;  will  serve  4  persons. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Steak  and  Tomatoes. 

Place  in  frying  pan  1  tb.  of  lard,  1  onion,  let  fry  alight  brown, 
place  steak,  after  being  floured,  in  this  and  fry  to  light  brown 
on  both  sides.  Then  stir  \  c.  parched  flour  in  a  can  of  tomatoes 
(or  chopped  up  fresh  ones),  and  pour  over  steak  and  cover  with 
hot  water;  let  cook  until  a  thick  gravy  is  formed,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  B.  H.  Collier. 


PI  ANTFNF"  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
lLr\ll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


FOR  PROMPT  CAREFUL  SERVICE 

.  .  CALL    OIW  .  . 

W.W.RAWLINS, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in 

Fish    and    Oysters. 


Western  and  Georgia  Meats,  Beef,  Pork,  Mutton, 
Head    Cheese  and  Sausage. 


Office  and  Factory:     107  and  109  Broad  St. 

Markets:     107  and  109  Broad  St.  Markets:    Broad  and  Johnson  Sts. 

ALBANY,     -     -     -     GEORGIA. 


\oii  carj't  deijy 

That  your  success  in  cooking  depends  very  largely  upon  the 
materials  you  use.  A  good  cook  and  inferior  ingredients  made  a  bad 
combination  and  the  result  of  this  combination  is  inevitable a  failure. 

Failures  are  expensive.  They  waste  alike  your  labor  and  your 
money,  to  say  nothing  of  the  aggravation  they  cause. 

Then  why  have  failures  at  all  when  it's  so  easy  to  avoid  them? 
Follow  the  receipts  in  this  cook-book  and  use  only  the  best  materials  and 
ninety-nine  times  out  of  a  hundred  you  will  succeed. 

To  furnish  these  materials  is  our  part  of  the  programme.  Our  long 
experience  in  the  fancy  grocery  business  has  taught  us  three  very  good 
lessons: 

What  goods  to  buy;  When  to  buy  them,  and,  most  important  of  all, 
what  goods  to  let  alone.  We  have  passed  the  experimental  stage  in  our 
business,  and  feel  that  you  can  rely  on  our  judgment.  Purchase  your 
materials  from  us,  and  no  matter  what  article  you  buy,  you  can  depend 
upon  getting  the  finest  quality  and  absolute  freshness. 

MOCK  &  RAWSON, 

South  Georgia's  Leading  Grocers,  Confectioners  and  Bakers, 

ALBANY,  GEORGIA. 


24  RECIPES. 


Mince  Turnovers. 

Two  c.  flour  sifted  twice  with  1  rounded  t.  baking  powder  and 
^  as  much  salt,  chop  into  it  2  tb.  butter  and  wet  with  cup  of 
sweet  milk  quickly  and  lightly.  Roll  into  a  sheet  less  than  a 
J  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  squares  about  6  inches  across, 
put  into  middle  of  each  square  a  large  tb.  of  minced  poultry, 
veal,  ham  or  lamb,  or  a  mixture  of  these,  well  seasoned,  with 
gravy;  double  the  paste  into  a  triangle  and  enfolding  the  meat, 
pinch  edges  firmly  to  hold  together  and  bake.  They  are  good 
hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Muse. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  5  scant  t.  of  sugar,  1  tb.  of  salt,  desired 
quantity  of  mint,  cut  fine.     Serve  with  lamb  roast. 

Mrs.  Lee  Dees. 
Beef  or  Mutton  Souffle. 

Two  c.  cold  ground  meat,  6  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  c.  milk, 
2  tb.  butter;  put  in  baking-dish,  cook.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Crossland. 
Heat  Roll. 

One  uncooked  chicken,  cut  from  the  bone,  1  lb.  round  steak, 
1  lb.  fresh  pork;  grind  together;  2  eggs,  \  c.  bread  crumbs; 
season  to  taste  with  red  and  black  pepper,  a  bit  of  sage  and 
salt.  Make  in  a  roll  the  size  of  a  loaf  of  bread;  put  in  pan; 
pour  over  it  1  c.  of  boiling  water;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs; 
lay  strips  of  breakfast  bacon  on  top  when  nearly  done;  bake  1 
hr. ,  basting  often.  Mrs.  George  W.  Brown. 

Baked  Hash. 

One  qt.  cold  cooked  meat,  chopped  fine;  1  pt.  chopped,  un- 
cooked potatoes;  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  chopped 
potatoes  in  a  stew-pan  with  1  pt.  of  water;  let  them  stew  5  min. ; 
then  add  the  meat  and  enough  water  to  make  the  mixture 
moist;  stew  10  min.  longer.  Take  from  the  fire;  add  eggs, 
beaten;  the  salt  and  pepper;  turn  in  baking-dish  and  bake  in 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  L.  F.  Allen. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Perfe°t  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnll  I  L-liL.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.      Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  25- 


Broiled  Steak. 

Wipe  and  trim  a  good  sirloin  steak;  place  it  on  a  wire  broiler 
or  very  hot  grid-iron,  turning  it  first  on  one  side  and  then  on 
the  other,  to  cement  juice  in;  then  pull  back  on  the  stove,  turn 
over  once  or  twice;  dish  on  a  hot  platter  spread  with  butter;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  and  serve  at  once.  Breakfast  bacon  can  be 
broiled  with  steak.  This  gives  a  fine  flavor,  and  no  butter  will 
be  needed.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom, 

Roast  Beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  1J  pts.  sweet  milk,  8  tb.  of 
flour,  3  tt  table  salt.  Mix  eggs  and  flour  and  milk,  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Bake  the  beef  one  hour;  then  remove  and  pour 
the  pudding  in  same  pan.  Bake,  cut  in  squares.  Serve  with 
the  beef. 

Mrs.  Lee  Dees. 
Jumbelli. 

Take  the  scraps  left  on  a  ham  bone,  mince  fine,  season  well 
with  black  pepper  and  thyme.  Boil  a  c.  of  rice  until  nearly 
done,  add  the  ham  and  seasoning.     Cook  until  done. 

W.  H.  B. 
To  Fry  Ham. 

Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  slices  the  night  before,  and  fry  in 
very  little  hot  lard  or  plantene.  R.  N. 

Delicious  Steak. 

Select  a  sirloin  steak  an  inch  thick;  trim  wash  and  wipe  dry; 
beat  lightly  on  both  sides.  Have  ready  your  pan,  in  which  have 
3  or  4  tb.  of  melted  butter  and  lard.  When  hot  put  the  steak  in 
a  piece  at  a  time,  rather  than  crowd  it;  brown,  but  do  notcrisp- 
turn  on  a  hot  dish  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  cover.  Make  a 
gravy  by  stirring  in  a  pinch  of  salt  1  tb.  of  flour  and  sweet  milk 
or  water,  and  cook  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    This  steak,  if  properly  cooked,  is  sweet  and  juicy. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Floyed. 

PI  AIMTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
ri_f\M  I  Lllu  butter;  use  "about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


2b  RECIPES. 


Hot  Tamales. 

Three  lb.  choice  beef,  1  lb.  pork,  boiled  tender;  6  large  pods 
Chili  pepper,  (remove  seed  and  boil  until  soft)  2  pods  garlic, 
^  t.  cammenie  seed,  £  t.  Mexican  sage,  1  t.  black  pepper,  2  tb. 
salt,  1  c.  lard.  Grind  all  together.  ^  gal.  country  meal,  1  tb. 
salt,  1  c.  of  lard;  mix  with  cold  water  to  thickness  of  paste, 
spread  a  heaping  t.  of  this  on  shuck,  then  put  in  ground  meat, 
roll.  Put  in  dinner  pot  and  cover  with  cold  water;  cook  45 
min.  over  slow  fire.     To  prepare  shucks  cut  ends  off  and  scald. 

Maggie. 

To  Roast  a  Turkey. 

Make  a  dough  of  1  qt.  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt;  mix  with 
water.  Kill  turkey  the  day  before,  and  salt.  Place  turkey  in 
baking-pan  half  full  of  water;  roll  out  the  dough  and  cover  the 
turkey  with  the  dough,  being  careful  to  tuck  under  all  around, 
and  bake  3  hrs.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Cooper. 

Brain  Patties. 

For  12  patties  put  2  sets  of  brains  and  1  can  of  mushrooms; 
boil  the  brains  done.  Take  off  and  put  in  clear  water  and 
lemon  juice.  Chop  fine  mushrooms  and  brains  together,  add  1 
tb.  of  butter,  \  c.  of  cream,  add  pepper,  white  and  red  to  taste, 
1  t.  finely  chopped  parsley,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  put  in  a 
ramekin.  Grate  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  brown  in  oven. 
Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Turkey  Croquettes. 

To  1  pt.  of  minced  turkey  add  \  c.  of  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs 
and  sufficient  gravy  to  moisten  all.  Season  to  taste  and  mix 
well.  Flour  the  hands  and  make  into  croquettes.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg;  then  into  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

Mrs.  W.  I.  Cherry. 


PI  ANTFNF  ^s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
x'Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  27 

Creamed  Chicken. 

Four  and  half  c.  chicken  boiled  and  chopped,  f  pt.  stock, 
\  pt.  cream,  1^  tb.  butter,  \\  tb.  flour,  \  c.  milk.  Season 
lightly  the  stock  and  when  boiling  add  flour  dissolved  in  milk, 
add  butter,  stir  and  cook  until  thick;  add  cream  and  cook  just 
a  few  minutes,  then  put  in  chicken.  When  taken  from  fire 
add  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Davis. 

Chicken  Loaf. 

One  large  chicken  put  on  to  boil.  When  about  half  done 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  tb.  celery  seed.  When  cold  grind 
separately  white  and  dark  meat.  Dissolve  1  tb.  knox  gelatine 
in  1  c.  of  stock;  when  well  dissolved  add  another  c.  of  stock. 
Make  dressing  of  1  bottle  Durkee's  salad  dressing,  \  c.  vinegar, 
salt,  pepper,  mustard  and  juice  of  \  lemon.  Season  well  to 
taste,  then  mix  part  of  gelatine  with  chicken,  using  the 
remaining  gelatine  to  pour  over  each  layer  of  white  and  dark 
meat.     Set  on  ice.     Serve  with  mayonaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Davis. 

Chicken  Souffle. 

One  pt.  cold  chopped  chicken,  2  rounding  tb.  flour,  \  pt. 
milk,  1  tb.  butter,  4  eggs  (yolks),  1  ssp.  salt,  pepper  and  celery 
seed.  Put  milk  in  sauce-pan,  stir  in  flour,  cook  slowly  until 
it  forms  a  smooth  paste;  add  butter  and  team  over  yolks  well 
beaten;  add  chicken  and  seasoning.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Crossland. 

Cream  Chicken. 

Four  lbs.  chicken,  1  can  mushrooms,  4  sweetbreads,  1  pt. 
cream,  4  tb.  butter  (large),  5  tb.  flour  (even),  1  small  onion. 
Cook  chicken  and  sweetbreads,  then  cut  up  in  dice;  in  a  sauce 
pan  put   flour  and  butter  stirring  smooth,    then  pour  in   the 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLfMl  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


28  RECIPES. 


beaten  cream,  cook  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  grate  onion  and 
add  to  this  mixture  a  little  pepper,  pour  all  into  baking  dish; 
add  mushrooms  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  grated  bread 
crumbs;  on  top  add  small  bits  of  butter;  bake  20  min. 

Mrs.  Y.  C.  Rust. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Take  1  4-lb.  chicken,  dress  it,  and  boil  till  tender.  While 
this  is  cooking  prepare  a  set  of  sweetbreads  by  trimming  off  all 
fat  and  pipes.  Wash  well  in  cold  water,  soak  15  min.,  drain, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  t.  of  salt,  stand  over  a  very- 
moderate  fire  for  20  min.  When  done  throw  them  into  cold 
water  and  remove  fibrous  skin  from  outside.  Chop  fine  with 
silver  knife.  When  chicken  is  done  remove  skin  and  bone; 
chop  the  meat  very  fine,  then  mix  it  with  the  sweetbreads,  and 
to  every  pt.  of  this  meat  allow  ^  pt.  milk  or  cream,  1  large 
tb.  butter,  2  large  tb.  Queen  of  Pantry  flour,  1  large  tb. 
parsley,  1 1.  onion  juice,  1  t.  salt,  Jt.  nutmeg,  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste.  Now,  put  milk  on  to  boil;  rub  butter  and  flour  to  a  smooth 
paste  and  stir  into  boiling  milk;  stir  continually  until  very 
thick;  take  from  fire  and  add  meat,  and  beat  until  thoroughly 
mixed;  add  seasoning;  taste  to  see  if  enough  salt  and  pepper; 
then  turn  on  large  plate  to  cool.  When  cold  and  hard,  form 
into  cone-shaped  croquettes;  dip  first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in 
bread  crumbs.  Now,  put  sufficient  plantene  in  cold  pan  and 
heat  up  gradually.  When  hot  enough,  lay  in  croquettes  and 
fry  light  brown;  serve  with  a  sprig  of  parsley  on  top  of  each. 
To  warm  over,  place  them  on  soft  paper  and  stand  them  in  the 
stove  for  a  few  moments.  Cold  roast  chicken  or  turkey  may  be 
made  into  croquettes;  you  may  use  calf  brains  instead  of  sweet- 
breads, prepared  in  the  same  way.  When  the  family  is  small, 
the  white  meat  of  the  chicken  may  be  used  for  salad,  the  dark 
for  croquettes.  With  a  pair  of  sweetbreads,  a  4-lb.  chicken  will 
make  a  qt.  of  nice  soup,  9   croquettes  and   1J  pts.   of  chicken 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^"ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLMIl  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
'  'Plantene' '  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  29 


salad ;  using  all  the  meat,  you  make  12  croquettes.  Left-over 
fish  may  be  made  into  croquettes  by  this  receipt,  leaving  out 
sweetbreads.  Mrs.  C.  R.  N. 

Chicken  Cutlets. 

These  can  be  made  from  cold  roast  chicken,  but  better  from 
boiled  chicken.  Use  mostly  white  meat,  chop  fine  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  celery  salt.  Break  an  egg  into  the 
chicken  and  stir  it  throughly;  make  a  white  sauce  with  some  of 
the  liquor  the  chicken  was  boiled  in  and  add  a  little  cream  or 
butter  and  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  it  consistency  of  cream; 
put  a  little  butter  in  the  pan  and  fry  these  cutlets  only  just 
enough  to  have  them  a  very  light  brown;  serve  on  a  hot  platter 
and  pour  sauce  over  them.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 

Roast  Duck. 

Parboil,  then  fill  the  body  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread 
crumbs  and  \  c.  of  chopped  walnut  meats,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  small  onion.  Like  all  baked  fowls  it  should  be 
often  basted.  Mrs.  S.  Weldon. 

Roasted  Partridges. 

Dress  and  draw  to  be  stuffed;  salt  them;  make  stuffing  of  \ 
bread  crumbs  and  \  English  walnuts;  put  1  c.  of  water  in 
roaster;  place  in  birds  with  lump  of  butter  on  each;  season 
highly,  and  when  half  done,  add  1  tb.  of  sherry  wine  to  each 
bird;  pour  gravy  over  when  served. 

Mrs.  Billups  Phinizy. 

Birds. 

Put  in  covered  steam  roaster  with  1  c.  of  water  and  a  little 
lump  of  butter  to  each  bird.  When  half  done,  salt  them;  then 
pour  over  1  c.  port  wine,  1  tb.  Worcester  sauce  and  juice  of  1 
lemon;  drain  the  water  from  1  can  of  mushrooms,  chop  and 
put  over  birds  when  serving.     Pour  over  gravy. 

Mrs.  Billups  Phinizy. 

PI  ANTFNF  is  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LnM  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


30  RECIPES. 

Broiled  Partridges. 

Grease  a  spider  thoroughly,  salt  birds  and  season  with  pepper, 
place  them  in  cold  spider,  cover  and  weight,  cook  until  brown, 
add  water  gradually  until  they  are  tender,  season  with  Worces- 
tershire sauce.  Mrs.  H.  T.  McIntosh. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

One  qt.  cranberries,  1  qt.  sugar,  1  pt.  cold  water;  mash 
berries  and  put  in  a  sauce-pan  with  sugar,  pour  over  \  pt.  of 
the  water,  and  when  this  cooks  down  add  another  ^  until  the 
pt.  of  water  is  used.  Do  not  stir.  These  will  look  like 
conserve  fruit.  Mrs.  J.  B.  S.  Holmes. 

Cranberry  Molds. 

To  1  qt.  of  cranberries  that  have  been  picked  over  and  washed, 
add  2  c.  of  sugar  and  1  c.  of  water,  cover  and  stew  until  tender, 
then  strain  through  a  sieve,  return  the  pulp  to  the  saucepan 
and  boil  for  10  mins.  Fill  the  molds  with  cold  water  and  when 
they  have  become  thoroughly  chilled  throw  out  the  water,  fill 
with  the  cranberries  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  firm. 

Mrs.  W.  I.  Cherry. 

List  of  Vegetables  to  serve  with  Meat. 

Not  more  than  1  or  2  varieties  of  vegetables  should 
accompany  a  course. 

With  roast  beef,  the  favorite  methods  of  serving  potatoes  are 
Franconico  or  baked  with  the  beef,  escalloped,  mashed — or 
mashed  and  browned.  Other  vegetables  that  may  accompany 
the  roast  are  cauliflower,  brussels  sprouts,  new  beets,  beet 
greens,  spinach,  salsify,  tomatoes,  onions,  squash,  white 
turnips,  green  corn,  peas,  beans  and  rice,  hominy,  javina  or 
macaroni. 

Beefsteak,  mutton  or  lamb  chops,  are  accompanied  by  sweet 
or  white  potatoes  in  any  form,  freshly  cooked  or  warmed  over, 
or  any  of  the  vegetables  served  with  the  roast  beef.  Asparagus 
is  often  served  with  meat,  but  it  is  more  appropriately  served 
as  a  course  by  itself. 

PI  ANTFNF  ^sa  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnlN  I  LllL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  31 


With  stewed  or  braised  beef,  potatoes,  turnips,  parsnips, 
carrots,  tomatoes,  peas,  beans  or  vegetables  a-la-jardiniere  are 
served.  With  corn  beef  serve  boiled  potatoes  (sweet  or  white); 
turnips,  cabbage,  beets,  carrots,  beet  tops,  spinach,  dandelions, 
brussels  sprouts,  cauliflower  and  parsnips. 

Boiled  mutton  or  lamb  may  be  accompanied  by  boiled  pota- 
toes, turnips,  salsify,  onions,  carrots,  cauliflower,  brussels 
sprouts,  spinach  or  green  beans. 

Roast  mutton  nails  for  same  vegetables  as  roast  beef  and  also 
red  current  jelly. 

With  roast  lamb  serve  potatoes,  green  peas,  beans,  spinach, 
summer  squash,  white  turnips  and  asparagus,  if  this  be  not 
desired  as  a  separate  course. 

With  veal,  roast  or  braised,  choose  white  turnips,  spinach, 
beet  tops,  young  beets,  peas,  beans,  dandelions'  or  escalloped 
cabbage. 

Roast  pork  calls  for  potatoes  (white  or  sweet),  squash, 
onions,  turnips,  parsnips,  spinach,  salsify  or  cauliflower  and 
apple  sauce. 

With  poultry,  roasted  or  boiled,  serve  potatoes  (white  or 
sweet),  turnips,  celery  (cooked  or  uncooked),  onions,  brussels 
sprouts,  cauliflower,  squash,  mushrooms,  green  corn,  peas, 
bean^,  rice  and  cranberry  sauce.  Asparagus  accompanies 
broiled  spring  chicken. 

With  game,  the  vegetables  are  usually  prepared  in  a  some- 
what elaborate  manner.  The  vegetable  considered  the  vegetable 
par  excellence  is  celery,  Avhich  may  be  served  plain,  stewed  in- 
cream  sauce  or  as  a  salad,  cauliflower  au  gratin,  spinach  a-la- 
cream  or  peas.  Olives  or  black  currant  jelly  are  passed  with 
the  duck;  currant  jelly  with  venison,  and  fried  hominy  with 
goose  and  duck. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


32  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  33 


34  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  35 


36  RECIPES. 


VEGETABLES. 


"Fruits,  vegetables  and  doctors  do  not  thrive  together. " 
Vegetables. 

All  vegetables  should  be  used  when  as  fresh  as  possible. 
Wash  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  till  ready  to  use.  Young 
green  vegetables  should  be  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water. 

Onions,  if  boiled  in  pure,  soft  water,  are  almost  tasteless,  and 
all  the  after  salting  cannot  restore  to  them  the  sweet,  saline 
taste,  and  the  strong  aroma  which  they  possess  when  boiled  in 
salted  water.  Strong  flavored  vegetables,  like  turnips,  cabbage, 
and  greens,  should  be  put  on  in  a  large  quantity  of  water. 
More  delicate  ones,  such  as  green  peas,  asparagus,  etc. ,  require 
less  water. 

The  cooking  of  potatoes  is  indeed  an  art !  They  are  dressed 
in  some  way  in  almost  every  family  every  day.  The  nutritious 
part  of  the  potato  lies  near  the  skin;  if  pared  at  all,  should  be 
veiy  thin.  They  are  best  cooked  in  the  jacket,  either  boiled  or 
baked.  When  boiled,  they  should  be  put  on  in  just  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  without  salt,  and  boil  slowly,  till 
nearly  done,  then  throw  in  a  c.  of  cold  water;  it  will  chill  the 
surface,  and  the  potatoes  will  be  mealy  throughout.  When 
done  drain  off  every  drop  of  water  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  leave 
off  top  and  shake  occasionally,  and  expose  every  side  to  the  air. 
Remove  skins  and  serve  immediately  in  uncovered  dish  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Potatoes  are  more  wholesome  baked  than  boiled.  If  the 
shell  of  a  baked  potato  is  broken  open,  but  not  pulled  apart, 
and  put  in  a  warm  place,  they  will  be  as  nice  as  when  served 
right  from  the  oven. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnM  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  37 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 

Use  a  head  of  white  cabbage;  remove  carefully  ^  doz.  of  the 
outer  leaves,  cut  a  good  sized  circle  in  the  top  with  a  sharp 
knife;  reserve  a  few  pieces  cut  off  the  top,  and  then  remove  the 
inside  of  the  cabbage,  leaving  only  a  frame;  be  very  careful  not 
to  cut  into  it,  or  the  dressing  will  escape.  Now,  put  the  frame 
in  salted  water  and  boil  10  min. ;  chop  the  inside  of  the  cabbage 
into  small  bits;  put  in  cold  water  and  boil  until  tender;  soak  -§■ 
of  a  loaf  of  bread  in  cold  water;  squeeze  out  all  the  water;  add 
£lb.  of  pork;  put  on  a  fryer  with  2  tb.  butter;  when  hot,  put 
in  the  soaked  bread  and  cooked  cabbage;  fry  until  it  leaves  the 
side  of  the  fryer;  remove  to  a  bowl;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  ginger.  Add  2  eggs,  mix  well,  fill  in  the  cabbage;  put  on 
the  top,  tie  the  outside  leaves  around  and  bake. 

Mbs.  B.  S. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  ends  of  the  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the 
seeds  and  a  portion  of  the  hard  centers;  to  each  6  good  sized 
tomatoes  allow  a  pt.  bread  crumbs,  a  tb.  chopped  parsley,  a  tb. 
of  grated  onion,  a  level  t.  of  salt,  a  ssp.  of  pepper  and  2  tb.  of 
melted  butter;  mix,  stuff  this  in  the  tomatoes,  heaping  it 
slightly,  stand  them  in  baking  pan,  add  ^  cup  water  and  bake 
in  slow  oven  f  hr.,  basting  once  or  twice  with  little  melted 
butter.  R.  N. 

Dried  Peas. 

One  pt.  peas,  picked  over  and  soaked  in  water  from  1  to  2 
hrs. ;  drain  and  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  until  tender. 
In  another  vessel  boil  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork ;  when  the  peas 
are  thoroughly  done,  drain  off  all  water  and  pour  them  into  the 
vessel  with  the  meat,  adding  more  hot  water,  if  necessary;  boil 
about  30  min.  longer  and  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

R.  N. 

PI  ANTFNF  ^sa  Per^ectr  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  ol 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


38  RECIPES. 


To  Boil  Green  Corn. 

Take  young,  tender  ears  of  corn,  have  ready  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing salted  water;  drop  in  the  corn,  and  boil  8  to  10  min. — no 
longer;  drain  off  all  water  and  with  a  sharp  knife  score  each 
row  of  grains  down  the  center;  spread  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  and  serve  hot.  R.   N. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

One  pt.  navy  beans,  soak  over  night  and  parboil  until  skins 
break.  Put  beans  in  an  earthen  bean  pot  and  add  f  t. 
mustard,  1  t.  salt  and  2  tb.  syrup;  lay  a  piece  of  fat  bacon  on 
the  top  and  cover  with  water.  Place  in  the  oven  and  cook 
from  8  to  10  hr.,  adding  a  little  water  every  hr.  except  the  last. 
Do  not  stir.  Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones. 

Vegetable  Pudding. 

Boil  a  firm  white  cabbage  15  mins. ,  changing  water;  when 
tender  remove,  drain,  let  cool,  chop  fine,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  1 
tb.  butter,  3  tb.  rich  milk  or  cream,  pepper  and  salt;  stir  all  well 
together;  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  until  brown;  serve 
hot.  This  dish  is  easily  digested,  palatable  and  tasts  much  like 
cauliflower.  Mary  Patteson. 

Corn  Pudding. 

Take  1  pt.  green  corn  grated,  h  c.  butter,  4  eggs,  1  c.  sweet 
milk,  1  heaping  tb.  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  corn, 
beaten  eggs,  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  milk  and 
flour;  this  should  be  right  thin;  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Mollie  Whitaker,  Oswichee,  Ala. 

Green  Peas. 

Melt  a  large  piece  of  butter,  add  peas  and  stir  in  the  hot 
butter  several  min.  until  they  are  thoroughly  heated  through; 
then  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  finish  the  cooking.  When 
tender,  add  milk,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  pinch  of 
sugar.  F.  A.   T. 

PI  AIMTFiMF  *8  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLrMl  I  LiiL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  39 


Stuffed  Belle  Peppers. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cold  chicken  and  bread  crumbs,  mix  well 
with  tomato  catsup;  core  the  peppers  and  stuff  with  same;  place 
in  pan  with  a  little  water  and  bake.  Mrs.  Lee  Dees. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Two  c.  cold  potatoes  mashed  free  from  lumps,  2  eggs  beaten 
light,  1  tb.  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  mix  well  and  form 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  or  plantene.  Mrs.  Y.  C.  Rust. 

Sweet  Potato  Pancakes. 

One  pt.  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  1  pt.  graham  flour,  1  pt.  sour 
milk,  2  eggs,  1  t.  soda,  1  t.  salt;  beat  all  together  10  min.  and 
bake  on  hot  griddle.  Mrs.  Charles  R.  Johnson. 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes. 

Corn  from  4  ears  of  green  corn,  one  beaten  egg,  2  tb.  flour, 
2  tb.  of  cream ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  as  griddle 
cakes.  Mks-  j-  Ewing. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. 

Slice  thin  and  soak  in  salt  water  1  hr.  Press  and  wipe  dry, 
meal  and  fry  in  plantene  or  lard  until  crisp  and  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Morton. 

South  Carolina  Rice. 

One  pt.  of  rice,  1  pt.  cold  water,  1  t.  salt;  wash  well,  usually 
in  3  waters,  place  in  pot  and  cover  with  the  water,  salt;  set  on 
warm  part  of  the  stove  and  let  swell  for  1  hr.  or  until  dried 
out.     Stir  with  a  coarse  fork.  El- 

Cheese  Fondue. 

Put  into  a  small  sauce  pan  1  tb.  of  butter,  1  tb.  of  Queen 
of  Pantry  flour,  stir  over  the  fire  till  they  bubble;  then  add 
a  gill  of  milk  or  cream ;  this  now  makes  a  very  thick  white 
sauce,  which  you  must  stir  well  to  prevent  burning.      When 

Dl  AIMTPNF  is  a  perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LAIN  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


40  RECIPES. 

smooth  stir  into  it  3  oz.  of  finely  grated  cheese,  a  scant  ssp.  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  turn  it  into  a  bowl  and  stir  into  it  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  thoroughly.  Whisk  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
solid,  stir  them  in  gently  the  last  thing.  Butter  the  dish  or 
paper  case,  in  which  you  intend  to  bake  it,  which  the  fondue 
must  just  half  fill.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  golden  brown  and 
serve  at  once.  Mrs.  L.  E.  Cartledge, 

Midway,  Ala. 

Cheese  Straws. 

This  is  an  excellent  recipe.  Three  tb.  of  flour,  3  tb.  of 
grated  cheese,  1  tb.  of  butter,  1  tb.  milk,  h  ssp.  of  salt,  £  ssp. 
of  pepper,  1  egg  (yolk  only).  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and 
add  the  milk,  the  egg  and  the  butter.  Mix  all  well  with  a 
spoon,  and  when  the  dough  is  smooth,  divide  into  2  parts;  roll 
these  very  thin,  cut  in  strips,  bake  in  slow  oven  15  min.  May 
be  served  cold  or  hot,  piled  on  a  plate,  log-cabin  style. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Brooks. 

Cheese  Croquettes. 

One  and  ^  c.  grated  cheese,  1  tb.  sifted  flour,  the  whites  of 
3  eggs  beaten  dry,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Shape 
the  mixture  into  small  balls,  roll  in  sifted  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  delicate  straw  color.  Drain  on  soft  paper 
and  serve  at  once.  Mrs.  P.  L.  Hilsman. 

Cheese  Patties. 

Bake  shells  of  rich  pastry;  \  lb.  grated  cheese,  1  egg,  1  t. 
flour,  \  t.  mustard,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  t.  salt.  Put 
this  in  a  pan  on  the  stove  and  add  1  pt.  of  boiling  milk,  stir 
until  smooth  and  thick.  Take  from  the  stove  and  stir  in  1  tb. 
butter;  fill  pastry  shells  and  brown  in  oven  and  serve  imme- 
diately. A.  L.  D 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
lLr\M  I  LliL.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  41 

Cheese  Balls. 

One  lb.  of  fresh  grated  cream  cheese,  £  c.  of  chopped  pecans, 
\  t.  of  salt,  pinch  of  red  pepper.  Soften  the  ingredients  with 
olive  oil  or  mayonnaise;  then  mold  and  roll  in  parsley,  chipped 
fine.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  N.  L.  Ragan. 
Macaroni. 

Wash  \  lb.  of  macaroni,  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  until 
tender;  lay  in  a  shallow  earthern  dish  a  layer  of  the  macaroni, 
(the  pieces  should  be  broken  the  same  size)  one  of  grated 
cheese  and  salt  to  taste.  Lay  over  slices  of  butter,  cover  with 
sweet  milk  or  cream.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  10  or  15  min. 
Serve  hot. 

Miss  Sallie  E.  Billingslea. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Grate  6  oz.  of  cheese,  put  into  a  sauce-pan,  add  1  t.  salt,  \ 
t.  dry  mustard,  \  t.  cayenne  pepper;  rub  2  oz.  butter  into  2  tb. 
of  flour;  add  to  the  mixture,  then  pour  slowly  into  this  a  gill 
of  sweet  milk.  Put  the  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  stir  contents 
slowly  to  a  thick,  rich  cream,  being  careful  not  to  boil.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  well-beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs;  last  of  all, 
the  6  whites  whipped  stiff;  stir  in  lightly.  Pour  the  mixture 
into  a  pudding-dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  min. 
Serve  quickly. 

Catherine  Robert. 

Italian  Spaghetti. 

Boil  1  pt.  of  macaroni  in  salt  water  1  hr. ,  at  the  same  time 
put  1  qt.  of  chicken  or  beef  stock  with  \  small  can  of  tomatoes, 
3  slices  of  small  onion,  salt  and  red  pepper,  1  tb.  of  butter;  let 
cook  down  to  1  pt. ;  put  the  macaroni  in  a  baking  dish,  and 
pour  the  stock  over  it,  not  quite  covering  it.  Grate  cheese  over 
the  top  and  bake.     Serve  quickly. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  L.  \\  L.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


42  RECIPES. 

Johanese  Eggs. 

Put  6  eggs  in  warm  water,  bring  to  a  boiling  point  and  boil 
slowly  15  min.  Boil  1  cup  of  rice,  drain  and  dry  in  tbe  oven. 
Cut  eggs  in  J  crosswise,  take  out  yolk  and  mash  in  with  them  2 
sardines,  add  pepper,  salt  and  1  tb.  of  melted  butter,  roll  into 
balls  and  put  back  into  whites;  turn  rice  into  center  of  platter, 
smooth  it  over,  stand  the  eggs  into  the  rice  and  pour  over  ^  pt. 
of  carefully  made  white  sauce.  Garnish  dish  and  send  at  once 
to  the  table. 

"Deviled  Eggs." 

Cut  in  too,  crosswise,  1  doz.  hard  boiled  eggs.  Remo.ve  the 
yolks  carefully,  mash  them  very  fine  and  season  sparely  with 
mustard,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  a  tb.  melted  butter. 
Chicken,  minced  very  fine,  may  be  added,  if  desired.  Be  sure 
that  the  mixture  is  sufficiently  moist,  and  that  it  is  not 
"lumpy."  Fill  the  spaces  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  the 
spiced  yolks;  smooth  it  even  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  chopped 
celery  and  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 

Egg  Vermicelli. 

Three  hard-cooked  eggs,  \  t.  salt,  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  4  or 
5  slices  of  toast,  1  c.  white  sauce.  Cook  eggs  and  make  white 
sauce.  Separate  yolks  from  whites;  chop  whites  fine  and  add 
them  to  white  sauce.  Arrange  toast  on  a  hot  platter,  and  cover 
with  the  sauce.  Press  the  yolks  through  a  coarse  strainer 
over  the  white  sauce.  Cover  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  5 
min.,  and  serve  hot.  The  dish  may  be  garnished  with  "toast 
points,"  made  by  cutting  slices  of  toast  into  pieces  about  \\ 
inches  square,  and  dividing  each  square  diagonally. 

Miss  Nannie  E.  Fields. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Perfe°t  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnM  I  LitL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  43 

White  Sauce  for  Egg  Vermicelli. 

Two  c.  milk,  2  tb.  butter,  2  tb.  flour,  |-  t.  salt;  melt  butter, 
cook  until  it  bubbles;  add  flour  and  allow  this  to  cool.  Add 
milk  cold,  to  this  mixture,  and  heat  to  boiling  point,  stirring 
rapidly  all  the  time.  Boil  until  it  thickens.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  if  desired.  Miss  Nannie  E.  Fields. 

Egg  Omelet. 

Eight  eggs,  beat  whites  until  quite  stiff;  beat  yolks  very 
light,  adding  1  tb.  of  sweet  milk  for  each  egg.  Mix  yolks  and 
whites  by  lightly  stirring,  seeking  rather  to  suspend  the  yolks 
in  the  whites  than  to  mix.  Have  the  utensil  hot  enough  to 
make  the  butter,  with  which  it  is  greased,  just  bubble.  Turn 
in  the  omelet,  allow  it  to  simmer  on  the  range  till  it  rises,  then 
put  in  the  oven  and  bake  a  delicate  brown.  This  is  an 
extremely  dainty  dish.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Spanish  Omelet. 

Mix  6  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  or  1  can,  with  3  chopped 
green  bell  peppers  from  which  the  seeds  have  been  taken,  ^ 
onion,  some  parsley  and  cook  to  a  paste.  Fold  into  a  plain 
omelette,  with  1  can  of  mushrooms.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 


44  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  45 


46  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  47 


48  RECIPES. 


BREAD. 

"Truly,  bread  is  the  staff  of  life." 
Hints  on  Bread  Making. 

Good  bread  should  have  first  place  on  our  table  every  day  in 
the  year.  Three  things  are  essential  to  good  bread,  viz:  Good 
flour,  good  yeast  and  judicious  baking,  of  course,  might  be 
added,  experience,  without  which  none  of  the  domestic  arts 
can  be  carried  on  successfully.  One  pint  of  liquid  should  be 
used  with  every  loaf  of  bread.  The  excellency  of  bread 
depends  much  upon  the  thoroughness  of  its  kneading. 
Kneading  renders  the  gluten  so  elastic  that  it  is  capable  of 
expanding  to  twice  its  bulk  without  breaking  or  cracking. 
Always  give  bread  plenty  of  time  to  expand,  but  be  careful 
that  it  does  not  fall,  as  it  is  then  sour  and  nothing  can  be 
added  to  restore  its  original  sweetness.  As  soon  as  bread  is 
done  remove  it  from  the  oven,  tip  it  on  the  bread  board  so  that 
the  air  can  circulate  around  it.  Do  not  cover  if  you  like  a 
sweet,  crisp  crust.  When  perfectly  cold  put  it  in  a  clean  tin 
bread  box  without  any  wrapping,  as  cloth  absorbs  the  moisture 
and  soon  sours  and  mould,  destroying  the   flavor  of  the  bread. 

To  test  oven,  if  one  can  hold  the  hand  in  the  oven  to 
count  20  it  is  right,  or  throw  a  little  flour  on  the  floor  of  the 
oven,  if  it  browns  quickly,  it  is  right.  Hot  bread,  or  hot  cake, 
.should  always  be  cut  with  a  hot  knife.  If  so  cut  it  will  not 
become  clammy. 

Quick  Yeast. 

One  c.  fresh  milk,  boiled,  2  tb.  meal,  1  pinch  salt,  set  in  a 
warm  place  until  morning,  then  add  1  pt.  of  warm  water. 
Make  a  batter  by  adding  flour,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  risen  make  bread  in  the  usual  way.  J.  B.  S. 

PI  AIMTFNF  *8  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  49 

Carolina  Biscuit. 

Two  c.  of  flour,  2  t.  baking  powder,  1  tb.  lard,  1  egg,  2  tb. 
cream,  pinch  of  salt,  and  milk  to  soften.  Mix  well  and  roll 
out,  then  cut  and  bake.  Mrs.  Joe  Sparks. 

Tested  Light  Bread. 

One  yeast  cake,  2  c.  water,  1  c.  buttermilk,  1  tb.  sugar,  §  c. 
of  lard,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  mix  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Next  morning  knead  and  let  rise  again;  then  knead 
again.     When  risen  double  its  size,  bake. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Mangham. 

Yeast  Cake. 

Take  1  qt.  of  good,  fresh  clabber;  put  it  in  a  pan  and  let  it 
scald  until  it  begins  to  crack.  Stir  in  good,  fresh  corn  meal  to 
the  consistency  of  mush;  set  off  and  let  cool;  dissolve  in  a  little 
water  2  yeast  cakes,  stir  in  meal  sufficient  to  make  stiff  dough. 
Do  this  early  in  the  morning,  and  in  the  evening  stir  in  more 
meal.     Make  out  in  cakes,  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Mangham. 

Milk  Yeast  Light  Bread. 

At  night  take  §  c.  of  fresh  sweet  milk,  bring  to  a  boil  and 
pour  over  3  tb.  of  corn  meal;  mix  well  and  set  in  warm  place 
to  rise.  Next  morning  take  2  c.  fresh  sweet  milk,  bring  to  a 
boil,  add  water  to  reduce  temperature  to  blood  heat,  add  1  tb. 
■each  salt  and  sugar;  then  the  c.  of  yeast  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  2 
hrs.  until  it  rises,  then  add  1  c.  warm  water,  1  heaping  tb.  lard 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise  again.     Bake  in  slow  oven  1  hr.  Mrs.  Lee  Dees. 

Graham  Biscuit. 

One-half  pt.  white  flour,  ^  pt.  graham  flour,  1  t.  sugar, 
^  t.  soda,  |-  t.  yeast  powders,  a  little  lard  and  salt.  Make  up 
with  milk  and  bake  as  biscuit.  J.  B.  S. 

PI  A  NT  FN  F  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnll  I  LI'L  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


^S*^***'''**** 


WAGGONER  GATES  MILLING  C 

QUCEN  Or  THC  PANTRY 


WITHOUT  A  RIVAL 


For  Sale  by 

W.    C.    BRADLEY   CO., 

COLUMBUS,  GEORGIA. 


EUFAULA  GROCERY  CO., 


EUFAULA,  ALA. 


RECIPES.  51 


Beaten  Biscuit. 

To  1  qt.  of  Queen  of  Pantry  flour  add  1  tb.  of  lard  or 
plantene  and  h  t.  of  salt.  Mix  well,  using  sweet  milk  or  cold 
water,  to  form  a  dough  as  stiff  as  can  be  handled;  then  pound 
until  dough  pops  and  blisters,  and  becomes  soft  and  pliable. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Baking  Powders. 

One  lb.  of  best  quality  of  cream  of  tartar,  ^  lb.  of  soda,  J  lb. 
of  flour;  mix  together  and  sift  8  times.  Use  2  t.  to  a  qt.  of 
flour.  Mrs.  Jordan. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  qt.  of  flour,  £  lb.  lard,  ^  t.  baking  powder,  scant  |  c. 
sweet  milk.  Add  ice  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  J.  R.  deGraffenried. 

Good  Biscuit. 

To  make  these  biscuit  use  mixed  flour,  25  lb.  sack,  to  a  large 
size  package  of  Horseford's  powder;  1  c.  fresh  buttermilk,  a 
pinch  soda  and  salt,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg;  mix  lard  in  flour, 
gradually  add  the  milk,  handle  very  little.  Mould  biscuit  as 
soft  as  you  can  handle  the  dough.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Warren. 

Yeast  Bread. 

One  pt.  sweet  milk,  1J  pts.  boiling  water,  4  tb.  sugar,  1  tb. 
salt,  1  compressed  yeast  cake,  1  generous  spoon  lard  or  plantene. 
Put  milk,  water  and  sugar  in  mixing  bowl,  take  out  J  cup  of 
it,  in  which  dissolve  yeast,  being  careful  to  have  the  mixture 
just  luke  warm.  Now  sift  in  the  bowl  enough  Queen  of  Pantry 
flour  to  make  a  batter  to  drop  from  the  spoon,  give  this  a 
vigorous  beating,  then  add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  the  |  cup  of 
liquid,  beat  again  and  set  to  rise  in  warm  place  until  light, 
from  1  to  1  J  hours,  then  add  lard  and  salt  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  nice,  soft  dough.     When  sufficiently  kneaded,  put  back 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  L.ML.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


52  RECIPES. 


in  the  bowl  and  set  to  rise  for  2  hrs.,  by  that  time  it  will  have 
doubled  its  bulk.  Form  in  loaves,  let  rise  1  hr.  and  bake  45 
min.     This  will  make  3  large  loaves  of  bread. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Sally  Lunn. 

One  pt.  Queen  of  Pantry  flour.  2  t.  baking  powder,  i  t.  salt,  \ 
c.  milk,  \  c.  butter,  beat  eggs  separately,  add  to  yolks  the  milk, 
stir  in  slowly  the  flour,  add  the 'butter  melted,  then  the  baking 
powder  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  lastly  fold  in  the  whites  of 
eggs,  bake  in  loaf,  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  L.  F.  Allen. 

Muffins. 

Take  \  t.  soda,  2  tb.  warm  water,  \  pt.  sour  milk,  2  eggs, 
1  tb.  melted  butter,  \\  c.  flour;  dissolve  soda  in  warm  water; 
add  this  to  milk,  then  to  beaten  yolks.  Stir  in  melted  butter, 
and  flour  in  which  a  level  t.  of  R.  B.  P.  has  been  sifted. 
Add  whites  last,  and  bake.  Mrs.  N.  R.  D. 

Cream  Muffins. 

Three  eggs,  \  pt.  sweet  cream,  \  pt.  flour.  Beat  eggs  sepa- 
rately; to  well-beaten  yolks  add  the  cream,  then  sifted  flour  in 
which  has  been  sifted  1  t.  of  cream  tartar,  then  well- beaten 
whites  in  which  \  t.  of  soda  has  been  put.     Bake  in  patties. 

Buttermilk   Muffins. 

One  egg,  \  pt.  buttermilk,  \  t.  soda,  lard  or  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  salt  to  taste,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Bake 
quickly.  Mrs.  P.  E.  Tucker. 

Corn  Muffins. 

One  pt.  meal,  2  c.  buttermilk,  1  egg,  lard  the  size  of  pigeon 
egg.  Stir  into  the  milk  soda  until  it  froths;  then  gradually  add 
the  meal,  egg  and  melted  lard.  Pour  into  very  hot,  well- 
greased  pans  and  bake  quickly.  Mrs.  W.  N.  Ticknor. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T Lnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


EECIPES.  53 


Egg  Bread. 

One  pt.  sifted  meal,  scant  pt.  buttermilk,  1  egg,  lard  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  1  t.  salt.  Beat  together  well;  just  before  baking 
add  a  t.  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  tb.  warm  water.  If  sweet  milk 
is  used,  add  2  t.  of  cream  tartar.       Mrs.  L.  A.  Billingslea. 

Plain  Wafers. 

One  pt.  flour,  lard  size  of  walnut  rubbed  into  flour,  4  tb.  milk, 
water  enough  to  make  thin  batter,  salt  to  taste. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Pope. 

Corn  Meal  Wafers. 

Two  tb.  corn  meal,  2  tb.  flour,  2  tb.  milk,  butter  size  of  a 
hickory  nut,  water  enough  to  make  thin  batter,  pinch  of  salt. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Pope. 

flush  Bread. 

One  pt.  sweet  milk,  1  c.  corn  meal,  1  tb.  butter,  4  eggs 
beaten  separately.  Mix  milk  and  meal  thoroughly.  Cook  to 
a  thick  mush,  stirring  all  the  time.  Take  from  fire  and  add 
butter  and  let  cool  slightly;  stir  in  yolks  1  at  time,  and  lastly 
fold  in  the  whites.  Pour  in  baking  dish  and  bake  30  min.  Use 
no  salt  until  served.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Indian  Delight. 

Two  eggs,  1  pt.  milk,  J  c.  molasses;  sift  together  1  c.  corn 
meal,  1  c.  corn  starch,  3  t.  baking  powder;  add  well  beaten 
eggs,  then  milk,  and  a  c.  of  rice  freshly  boiled  and  cool.  Mix 
a  thin  batter;  bake  in  quick  oven  and  serve  while  hot. 

Gems. 

One  c.  milk,  2  c.  flour,  1  egg,  1  tb.  sugar,  1 1.  lard,  pinch  of 
salt.  Mix  well  and  add  2  t.  cream  tartar  and  1  of  soda.  Put 
in  muffin  pan  and  set  on  back  of  stove  to  rise  before  baking. 

R. 


PI  ANTI-IMF  *s  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


54  RECIPES. 

Scones. 

Mix  together  2  c.  of  Queen  of  Pantry  flour,  sifted,  1  t.  baking 
powder,  \  t.  salt,  rub  in  flour  with  tips  of  fingers,  4  level  tb.  of 
butter,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  \  c.  cream.  Toss  on  bread 
board,  roll  f  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  squares,  brush  over  with 
white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Allen, 
Ft.  Mitchell,  Ala. 
Wafers. 

One  pt.  flour,  1  pi.  sweet  milk,  §  c.  melted  butter  and  lard, 
1  t.  baking  powder,  \  t.  salt.  Mrs.  DeGraffuireid. 

Waffles. 

Two  c.  flour,  2  eggs,  f  c.  sour  milk,  1  heaping  tb.  of  butter 
and  lard,  mixed  and  melted;  1  scant  t.  Royal  Baking  Powder,  \ 
t.  soda,  1  scant  t.  salt.  Sift  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt  in 
flour;  beat  eggs  well,  and  milk,  then  flour.  Last  of  all  beat  in 
melted  butter  and  lard,  then  bake  until  a  delicate  brown  in  hot 
waffle  irons;  not  putting  in  too  much  batter. 

'  Mrs.  Sallie  T.  Mcintosh. 

Sponge  Cornbread. 

One  c.  flour,  \  c,  corn  meal,  \  c.  sugar,  1  c.  sour  milk,  1  tb. 
melted  butter,  \  t.  soda,  \  t.  salt,  2  eggs  beaten  separately. 
Bake  in  muffin  moulds. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  pt.  flour,  2  rounding  tb.  lard,  \  t.  salt,  mix  with  ice 
water,  make  stiff  dough,  beat  30  min. 

Sarah  Pattison. 
Waffles. 

One  pt.  butter  milk,  1  pt.  Queen  of  Pantry  flour,  1  egg.  1  t. 
salt,  1  t.  soda,  5  tb.  lard  or  butter;  sift  flour  in  bowl,  make 
well  in  center.  Break  in  the  egg,  pour  in  milk  and  salt;  beat 
all  until  smooth  and  well  mixed,  then  add  lard.  Just  before 
cooking  stir  in  soda  very  gently.  Mrs.   C.  R.  Newsom. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
i  Lnli  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  55 


Egg  Biscuit. 

Two  c.  of  Queen  of  Pantry  flour,  2  t.  baking  powder,  1  t. 
salt,  3  tb.  of  melted  butter,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  c.  sweet  milk; 
beat  eggs  light,  then  add  milk  and  beat  again;  add  salt,  then 
the  melted  butter.  Sift  powder  in  flour,  and  make  soft  dough. 
Cut  in  any  shape  and  bake  quickly.  Mrs.  Allen. 

Souffle — A  Nice  Breakfast  Dish. 

One  c.  sweet  milk,  2  c.  butter  milk,  3  or  4  eggs,  4  tb.  sifted 
corn  meal,  -|  t.  soda,  J  t.  salt.  Beat  eggs  together  until  very 
light;  then  add  meal,  milk,  salt  and  lastly  soda.  Bake  imme- 
diately. 

Corn  Muffins. 

One  tb.  of  lard,  1  tb.  of  sugar,  2  or  3  eggs,  2  c.  milk,  2  c. 
corn  meal,  2  tb.  yeast  powder,  |  t.  salt.  Beat  the  lard  and 
sugar  together;  add  eggs,  well-beaten;  milk  and  salt;  then  stir  in 
meal  and  powder  well  mixed.     Bake  in  gem  pans  20  min. 

Mary  Hyman  Mallett. 

Southern  Beaten  Biscuit. 

One-half  lb.  flour,  J  lb.  lard,  1  oz.  sweet  milk,  1 1.  salt,  and  just 
as  much  soda  as  you  can  take  up  between  thumb  and  forefinger; 
rub  lard  in  flour  lightly  with  tips  of  fingeis;  add  milk  that  is 
very  cold,  salt  and  soda  in  flour.  Run  through  biscuit  machine 
until  dough  blisters  freely  and  pops  loudly;  roll  out  evenly  and 
cut;  stick  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  perfectly  done. 

J.  W.  W. 
Salad. 

To  make  a  perfect  salad,  there  should  be  a  spendthrift  for  oil, 
a  miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt  and  a  madcap  to  stir 
the  ingredients  up  and  mix  them  well  together.  Mayonnaise 
dressing  should  be  used  for  fish,  meats,  and  some  vegetables, 
such  as  cauliflower,  tomatoes  and  celery;  but  the  simple  French 

PI  ANTFNF*  *s  a  perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLn!i  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


56  EECIPES. 

dressing  for  lettuce,  served  as  a  salad,  after  a  hearty  meal,  is 
best.  In  preparing  these  dressings,  use  a  silver  or  wooden  fork 
and  a  large  soup  plate,  very  cold.  Never  beat,  but  stir  one 
way  continually. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Take  a  very  fat  hen  and  after  dressing  it  let  it  stand  for  24 
hrs.  Then  unjoint  it  and  break  the  bones.  Season  the  mass 
well  with  salt,  black  pepper  and  a  little  red  pepper  and  put  to 
cook  in  a  vessel  that  has  a  tight  fitting  cover.  Let  it  cook 
slowly  for  6  or  8  hrs.  Put  no  water  to  it,  it  will  make  its  own 
essence,  and  from  time  to  time  during  the  process  of  cooking 
pour  the  essence  into  a  bowl  and  keep  to  return  to  chicken 
when  salad  is  made.  All  the  meat  can  be  used  in  the  salad. 
Strip  the  meat  from  bones  and  cut  in  squares  J  in.  thick;  have 
8  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed  and  mix  with  meat;  also,  \  t.  of 
English  mustard.  Then  take  celery  that  has  been  on  ice  and 
cut  up  in  blocks  like  the  meat,  half  as  much  celery  as  you  have 
eggs  and  meat;  lastly  add  juice  of  3  lemons  and  mayonnaise 
to  taste.     Place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Johnson,  Macon,  Ga. 

Russian  Salad. 

(Better  known  as  Herring  Salad.) 

Soak  3  Milchner  herring  24  hr. ,  then,  remove  the  skin  and 
all  the  bones,  laying  aside  the  roe.  Cut  the  herring  into 
small  squares,  to  them  add  2  apples,  2  Dill  pickles,  1  small 
bunch  of  celery,  \  lb.  of  Switzer  cheese,  1  lb.  of  cold  roast 
beef,  that  has  been  well  seasoned  in  cooking,  1  lb.  of  cold 
roast  pork,  (this  is  all  to  be  cut  into  small  pieces,  the  same  as 
the  herring)  \  c.  of  capers,  1  heaping  tb.  of  sugar,  1  t.  of  black 
pepper,  3  tb.  of  mixed  mustard,  1  onion,  good  size,  chopped 
very  fine,  and  the  yellow  peel  of  1  lemon,  cut  into  very  small 
pieces.  Pour  over  the  salad  the  following  dressing:  Put  the 
roe,  from  the  herring,  into  a  small  bowl  and  mash  with  a  fork 

PI  AIMTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


EECIPES.  57 

until  well  creamed,  and  all  strings  are  removed.  Add  to  this, 
very  slowly,  the  juice  of  2  lemons.,  J  c.  of  vinegar,  and  1  c.  of 
oil;  stir  well  until  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  over  salad,  place  in 
covered  dish  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  at  least  24  hr. 
before  serving. 

Salad  a  la  Jardin. 

To  1  pt.  of  ground  boiled  chicken,  add  equal  parts  of 
asparagus  tips,  French  peas,  chopped  celery.  Dry  the  peas 
and  asparagus  on  a  napkin,  before  mixing  pour  over  the 
dressing.  Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Dressing  for  Salad. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  tb.  of  vinegar,  2  tb.  oil,  1  tb.  of  butter. 
Boil  over  water  until  thick  like  custard.  When  cool,  add 
pepper,  It.  mustard,  ^  pt.  of  whipped  cream,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  t.  of  sugar.  Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Potato  Salad. 

Two  cold  potatoes,  cut  into  cubes,  and  dress  with  the 
following  mixture:  2  tb.  best  salad  oil,  ^  tb.  sugar,  A-  tb. 
pepper,  ^  t.  prepared  mustard,  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  extract  of 
onion,  and  (if  liked)  ^  t.  celery  salt.  Rub  to  a  smooth  paste, 
then  whip  in  (1  t.  at  a  time)  5  tb.  of  vinegar.  Pour  over  the 
potatoes,  arrange  for  individual  service  and  garnish  with  cress- 
Prize  Celery  and  Apple  Salad. 

Take  equal  parts  of  crisp  celery  cut  into  lengths  and  tart 
apples  scooped  from  the  skin  and  chopped  rather  fine;  both 
should  be  chilled  thoroughly  before  mixing.  At  serving  time 
sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  toss  them  together. 

For  the  Dressing. 

Use  French  dressing  or  the  following  ma}7onnaise:  Put  the 
yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  into  a  cold  soup  plate;  add  1  ssp.  of  salt, 
and  stir  for  a  min . ;  then  add,  drop  by  drop,  8  tb.  of  olive  oil,  a 

PI  AIMTFNF  *sa  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LllL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


58  RECIPES. 

dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  1^  tb.  of  lemon  juice  very  gradually. 
At  the  last  moment  stir  in  J  pt.  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Mix  lightly  with  the  celery  and  apples  and  serve  in  red 
apple  shells.  Mrs.  W.  P.  M. 

Oyster  Salad. 

Half  gal.  oysters,  ^  gal.  celery,  5  eggs,  2  tb.  butter,  2  t.  salt, 
2  t.  black  pepper,  2  t.  made  mustard,  1  c.  vinegar,  2  cucumbers 
pickled.  Wash  celery  (cut  in  dice),  drain  liquor  from  oysters, 
put  vinegar  over  fire  and  when  hot  put  in  oysters,  and  when 
plump  (not  cooked)  place  in  cold  water,  drain  and  set  in  cool 
place.  Dressing:  Rub  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  with  hard 
boiled  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  smooth,  add  a  few  drops  of  melted 
butter  at  a  time,  add  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  the  raw  egg,  then 
vinegar  by  the  spoonful.  Set  aside.  Mix  oysters,  celery  and 
minced  pickle,  tossing  up  with  a  silver  fork;  salt  to  taste;  pour 
dressing  over.  A.  N.  Jackson. 

Nut  Salad. 

Two  apples  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  tb.  minced  celery,  li  tb. 
whipped  cream,  2  tb.  Durkee's  Salad  Dressing,  h  lb.  pecan 
meats.  Leave  out  some  halves  of  the  nuts  to  decorate  the  top 
with,  whip  the  cream  and  dressing  together,  mix  nuts,  and 
apples  and  pour  over  them  the  dressing.,  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves.     This  will  serve  5  persons.         Mrs.  Chas.  R.  Johnson. 

Salmon  Loaf. — (Salad.) 

One  measure  of  cooked  mayonnaise,  1  tb.  celery  seed,  1  can 
of  salmon,  1  tb.  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Stir  all 
together,  turn  in  mould,  set  on  ice  until  congealed.  It  can 
then  be  served  with  any  preferred  mayonnaise. 

Cooked  Mayonnaise. 

Yolk  of  1  egg,  1  t.  each  of  mustard,  salt  and  sugar,  with  a 
dash  of  red  pepper;  1  tb.  flour,  \  c.  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of 
a   walnut.     Place   vinegar   to   boil.     Make  a  paste   of  sugar, 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  1  LIlL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  59 


mustard,  salt,  pepper,  flour.  Pour  vinegar  over  these;  add 
butter,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  again  team  over  yolk  of 
egg.  Return  to  fire  and  cook  until  thick.  Cool  and  add  (if 
desired)  \  the  quantity  of  whipped  cream.  Can  be  served  with 
salad. 

Fruit  .Salad. 
Five  oranges  cut  fine,    3  bananas  sliced,  \  lb.  white  grapes 
seeded  and  sliced,  \  lb.  English  walnuts,  \  can  pineapple  sliced, 
small  bottle  of  Mareschino  cherries.     Spread   in   layers,   with 
powdered  sugar  to  taste.     Add  2  tb.  rum,  2  tb.  sherry. 

Mrs.  David  Brown. 

Ham  Salad. 

One  lb.  cold  ham  cut  in  small  pieces,  \  doz.  small  pickles 
chopped  fine,  a  little  chopped  celery.  Dress  with  a  good  salad 
dressing  and  serve  in  lettuce-cups.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Gray.    ■ 

Fruit  Salad. 

Three  bananas,  2  oranges,  \  lb.  white  grapes,  1  head  of 
lettuce,  4  tb.  of  oil,  2  tb.  lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper,  white 
mayonnaise-  Peel  bananas,  remove  coarse  threads  and  cut  in 
slices,  peel  oranges  and  cut  in  slices;  skin  grapes,  cut  in  two, 
and  remove  seed;  dress  lettuce  and  each  kind  of  fruit  separately 
with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  oil.  Use  more  of  the 
condiments  than  given  if  necessary.  Arrange  fruit  on  lettuce 
leaves,  letting  grapes  be  last;  \  c.  mayonnaise  with  \  its  bulk 
of  whipped  cream.     Place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Pare  with  sharp  knife,  slice  and  lay  in  salad  bowl.  Make 
dressing  as  follows:  Work  up  ssp.  each  of  salt,  pepper  and 
fresh  made  mustard  with  2  tb.  of  salad  oil  (adding  a  few  drops 
at  a  time)  and  when  thoroughly  mixed,  whip  in  an  egg 
(beaten).     Add  4  tb.  vinegar  and  toss  up  with  a  fork. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Jerrard. 

PI  AIMTFNF  irta  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  LnC.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


60  RECIPES. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad. 

Peel  small  tomatoes,  cut  out  the  hard  pieces  around  stem 
ends  to  make  tomato  cups,  sprinkle  lightly  inside  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  fill  with  equal  portions  of  celery  and  walnuts  cut  in 
pieces  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  garnish  with  curled  celery.  Pass  mayonnaise  in 
separate  dish.  Boston  Cooking  School. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Cook  2  cans  of  tomatoes  until  tender,  then  strain.  Dissolve 
1  box  of  gelatine  (Knox's)  in  hot  water;  when  it  is  cool  pour  in 
the  juice  of  the  tomatoes,  seasoning  with  red  pepper,  salt  and 
vinegar  to  taste.  Flavor  with  onion  juice,  color  with  coloring 
to  give  the  tomato  coloring.  Pour  into  moulds  to  stiffen;  turn 
on  lettuce  leaf  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Cucumber  Jelly. 

Cook  cucumbers  with  a  slice  of  onion  until  tender,  in  boiling 
water,  pass  cucumbers  through  a  sieve  and  season  to  taste.  To 
each  pt.  add  \  oz.  of  gelatine  softened  in  \  c.  of  cold  water. 
Chill  in  a  mould,  cut  in  cubes  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  or 
boiled  dressing. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Cook  1  qt.  can  of  tomatoes  with  1  small  onion  until  thick. 
Strain  and  add  1  box  Knox's  gelatine  that  has  been  soaked  in 
1  pt.  cold  water.  Mix  and  add  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  heaping  t. 
salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Strain  again  and  mould  in 
small  pan,  so  the  jelly  will  be  1  inch  thick.  Slice  in  small 
squares  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Salad  Dressing  (Without  Oil.) 

One  c.  of  vinegar,  2  heaping  t.  of  sugar,  2  scant  t.  of 
mustard,  1  scant  t.  of  salt,  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Boil  vinegar,  salt 
sugar  and  mustard,  teem  over  yolks;  cook  until  it  thickens; 
add  2  tb.  of  butter  that  has  been  chopped  into  small  pieces. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Thomson. 


PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
ri_r\M  I  LI  XL.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


ASK  YOUR  GROCER   FOR 


"SUCCESS" 

SODA 

1   Pound  Package   5   Cents. 

To  make  your  Bread,  Biscuit  and  Cake  light,  sweet,  nutritious    and 

wholesome  use    "SUCCESS"    Soda    with  sour  milk  in  the 

correct  proportions,  or  use  one  part  "SUCCESS"  Soda 

and   two   parts  pure   cream   tartar. 

Clean  your  dishes  and  cooking  utensils  with  "SUCCESS"  Soda.  It  is 
better  than  soap  for  removing  grease  and  dirt.  "SUCCESS"  Soda 
is  fine  for  the  bath;  try  it. 

"Nothing  Succeeds  Like  SUCCESS." 

Morehouse  Manufacturing  Company, 

SAVANNAH,    GEORGIA. 


Onqega !      O^ega »      Ome&a ! 


NOT  THE  CHEAPEST  BUT  THE 
BEST  FLOUR  TO  BE  HAD. 


MILLER   GROCERY   COMPANY, 

Sole  Agents, 

ALBANY,  GEORGIA. 
YOU  WANT  TO  SEE 

S.    E.    BUSH, 

No.  249   Broad  Street. 

For  the  best  Bread,  Rolls,  Plain  and  Fancy  Cakes,  baked  fresh 
daily.     Prompt  service. 

'Phone  69.  Albany,  Ga. 


62  RECIPES. 

Dressing  for  Slaw. 

Put  1  c.  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  when  it  has  reached  the 
boiling  point,  add  1  tb.  each  of  salt,  sugar  and  mustard,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  and  3  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten 
together;  then  add  \  c.  vinegar  and  stir  constantly  until  it  is  as 
thick  as  cream.  Strain  through  a  sieve.  This  is  especially 
nice  on  salmon.  Mary  Hyman  Mallett. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

The  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  50-cent  bottle  of  olive  oil,  1  lemon,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  red  pepper.  Drop  olive  oil  slowly  into  beaten 
yolks,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  then  more  oil  until  all  is  in. 
Add  salt  and  pepper.  Madelynn  Gilbert. 

Cream  Dressing. 

Two  eggs  (yolks),  1  t.  sugar,  1  t.  salt,  1  t.  mustard,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks;  add  the  other  ingredients; 
mix  until  smooth;  add  4  tb.  of  olive  oil,  \  c.  of  vinegar.  Boil 
all  this  over  water  until  thick  like  custard.  When  cool,  add  \ 
pt.  cream  (beaten  stiff).  This  may  be  cooked  one  day  and 
cream  added  the  next,  if  desired.  Mrs.  S.  B.  Lewis. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Mix  together  \  t.  mustard,  \  t.  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne 
pepper,  2  t.  flour;  stir  this  into  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  t.  butter,  f- 
c.  sweet  milk,  1  t.  sugar.  Stir  in  a  double  boiler  or  in  a  pan 
of  water  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  \  c.  vinegar;  when 
it  is  the  consistency  of  cream,  strain  and  let  cool.  May  add 
whipped  cream  if  you  like. 

Salad  Dressing. 

One  even  t.  each  of  salt  and  mustard,  1  heaping  t.  sugar,  3 
tb.  vinegar,  2  eggs  (yolks  only),  1  cup  cream.  Stir  mustard, 
salt  and  sugar  to  a  paste  with  vinegar;  add  well  beaten  yolks 
and  stir  to  this  gradually  the  whipped  cream.      Pepper  if  liked. 

Mrs.  N.  R.  D. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lttll  I  Lilt,  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


MEMORANDA.  63 


■64  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  65 


66  MEMORANDA. 


RECIPES.  67 


SANDWICH  SUGGESTIONS. 

Mexican  Sandwiches. 

Three-fourths  c.  grated  cheese,  3  Spanish  peppers,  pinch  of 
salt,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  10  tb.  mayonnaise  dressing.  Chop 
peppers  and  mix  all  together;  slice  stale  bread  very  thin,  trim 
off  crust,  cut  with  biscuit-cutter,  spread  the  mixture  between 
layers.     Spanish  peppers  may  be  bought  canned. 

Mayonnaise  dressing  for  above:  f  c.  vinegar  put  on  to 
heat,  drop  into  this  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  |- 1.  salt,  |-  t. 
black  pepper;  beat  an  egg  very  light;  mix  \  t.  mustard,  1  t. 
flour  (in  a  little  water),  pour  into  egg,  also  1  tb.  milk,  1  tb.  of 
sugar,  1  tb.  of  hot  vinegar;  mix  well;  return  all  this  to  the 
stove  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  while.  A. 

Peanut  Sandwiches. 

One  pt.  of  peanuts,  well  chopped ;  mix  this  with  a  cooked 
mayonnaise  dressing,  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread  or 
snow  flake  crackers.  Mrs.  S.J.  W.  Livingston. 

Sardines. 

Split  sardines,  take  out  backbone,  leave  in  the  oil.  Season 
with  chopped  pickle,  lemon  and  tobasco. 

Cheese  and  Nuts. 

Chop  fine  \  c.  pecans,  melt  \  c.  good  cheese,  mix  thoroughly 
with  nuts;  add  \  t.  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Egg  Sandwich. 

Boil  6  eggs  till  hard.  When  cold  chop  fine;  1  medium  sized 
onion  chopped  fine;  moisten  thoroughly  with  salad  dressing: 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with 
butter,  then  with  the  egg  mixture  and  put  together  with  lettuce 
leaves. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  L.ML.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  ether.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


68  RECIPES. 


Salted  Almonds. 


Blanch  the  almonds  by  putting  the  meats  in  boiling  water, 
let  stand  a  few  moments;  remove  the  hulls  and  dry  the  nuts. 
Put  about  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a  long,  flat  tin,  and  when 
it  melts  put  in  the  nuts.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them,  and 
let  them  brown,  stirring  often.  Be  careful  not  to  let  them 
brown  too  much.  Take  them  off,  put  on  a  paper  to  absorb  the 
fat,  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 


DESSERTS. 


"An  please  your  honor,  quoth  the  peasant, 
This  same  dessert  is  ver)'  pleasant." 

Maple  Bisque. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  add  to  this  1  large  c.  of  maple 
syrup;  put  over  fire,  stirring  all  the  while.  Let  it  just  come  to 
a  boil,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  put  to  cool.  It  is 
well  to  boil  the  syrup  several  hours  before  wanted,  or  do  it  the 
night  before.  Whip  1  pt.  of  thick  cream  until  stiff;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  4  eggs  until  stiff,  then  add  this  to  the  cream;  then 
with  a  spoon  beat  the  maple  syrup  until  very  light,  then  mix 
with  the  cream  and  whites.  Put  into  a  mould,  with  buttered 
paper  on  top,  then  the  cover.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let 
stand  3  or  4  hr.  Mrs.  R.  Hobbs,  Sr. 

Strawberry  Bavarios. 

Soften  ^  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  £of  a  c.  cold  water,  and  dissolve 
by  standing  in  hot  water;  strain  into  a  c.  of  strawberry  juice 
and  the  juice  of  ^  lemon.  Add  about  lac.  of  sugar,  stir  over 
ice  water  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in 
gradually  1  pt.  of  whipped  cream.  Turn  into  a  mould  and 
chill  thoroughly,  then  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Peach 
syrup  can  be  used  instead  of  the  strawberry  juice. 

B.  C.  M. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  Lilt,  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.      Observe  directions  on  can. 


EECIPES.  69 

Caramel  Custard  with  Whipped  Cream. 

Cook  J  c.  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  stirring  constantly,  until 
it  melts  to  a  caramel;  pour  in  ^  c.  boiling  water;  stir  and 
simmer  until  it  forms  a  syrup.  Beat  3  whole  eggs  and  the 
yolks  of  2  more;  add  ^  c.  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  add 
1 1.  salt,  the  caramel  syrup,  and  2  c.  of  sweet  milk;  turn  into  a 
mould  well  buttered,  and  set  on  several  folds  of  paper  in  a  pan. 
Surround  the  mould  with  boiling  water,  and  bake  till  the 
custard  is  firm.  When  cold,  loosen  the  custard  from  the  pan, 
turn  out,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and 
flavored  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  R.  Hobbs,  Sr. 

Prune  Whip. 

One  c.  strained  prune  pulp,  1  c.  sugar,  whites  of  6  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.  Mix  sugar  with  whites  of  eggs,  then  prunes.  Put 
in  a  buttered,  covered  mold,  boil  or  steam  li  hr.  Turn  out  on 
a  platter  and  serve  warm,  with  flavored,  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Muse. 

Gelatine  with  Cherries. 

One-half  box  Cox's  gelatine,  1  can  white  cherries,  \  tumbler 
sherry  wine,  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  over 
fire  in  wine.  Stone  cherries  and  strain  juice.  Mix  all  together 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Let  congeal  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  P.  L.  Hilsman. 

Orange  Gelatine. 

One  pt.  orange  juice,  \  box  Cox's  gelatine,  over  which  pour 
\  c.  cold  water,  and  let  soak  \  hr.,  then  add  1  c.  boiling  water 
and  1  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.     Let  congeal. 

Mrs.  P.  L.  Hilsman. 
Raspberry  Parfait. 

Place  on  fire  in  saucepan  the  juice  from  1  can  of  raspberries, 
and  1  lemon  with  2  c.  sugar.  Boil  until  it  spins  like  thread. 
Have  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour  over 

PI  ANTFNF  *S  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
1  Lnli  ILI1L  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


70  RECIPES. 

them  the  above  hot  syrup  gradually.  Beat  well.  When  cold, 
stir  in  gently  1  qt.  of  cream  that  has  been  thoroughly  whipped. 
Mould  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  about  4  hr. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 
Apple  Charlotte. 
One  pt.  apples,  steamed  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  J  box 
of  gelatine,  soaked  an  hr.  in  ^  c.  cold  water,  1  c.  sugar,  the  juice 
of  1  lemon,  the  whites  of  3  eggs.  Pour  i  c.  boiling  water  upon 
the  gelatine;  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  and  pour  upon  the 
apples,  then  add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Place  in  a  basin 
of  ice  water,  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  pour  into  a  2  qt.  mould 
which  has  been  lined  with  sponge  cake.  Set  on  ice  to  harden. 
Make  a  soft  custard  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  1  pt.  milk,  3  tb. 
sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond.     When  the  charlotte  is 

turned  out,  pour  the  custard  around  it. 

Cathrine  Robert. 

White  Charlotte. 

One  qt.  cream,  3  c.  sugar,  |  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  1  wine 
glass  of  sherry  wine,  \  t.  vanilla,  2  drops  of  almond  extract, 
whites  of  6  large  eggs;  add  ic.  of  sugar  to  cream,  and  whip  to  a 
stiff  froth;  then  add  the  other  half  of  the  sugar  to  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  when  they  are  well  beaten;  continue  beating  until 
the  sugar  and  eggs  are  thoroughly  blended.  Now  add  this 
mixture  to  the  cream,  then  the  flavoring,  lastly  the  gelatine, 
boiling  hot,  and  beat  well.  Mrs.  Dita  Sterne. 

White  Charlotte  Russe. 

Two  tb.  granulated  gelatine,  whites  of  6  eggs,  1  c.  water,  1 
qt.  ripe  cream,  §  lb.  sugar;  whip  cream  thoroughly,  put 
gelatine  in  water  over  fire  until  it  dissolves,  then  pour  it  over 
sugar  and  whites,  that  have  been  stiffly  beaten.  When  it 
begins  to  congeal,  flavor  and  add  the  cream.  Mould  and  set 
on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  and 
any  kind  of  cake.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

PI  A  NT  FN  I-  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLrMi  I  LI'L.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  71 

Angels  Charlotte  Russe. 

One  tb.  Knox  gelatine,  J  c.  cold  water,  J  c.  boiling  water,  1 

c.    sugar,    1    pt.    sweet   cream,    1    doz.    marshmallows.     Soak 

gelatine  in  cold  water  10  min.,  then  dissolve  in  hot  water  and 

add  sugar.     When  mixture  is  cold  add  cream.      Beat  until  stiff, 

and  add  the  marshmallows  which  have  been  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  sherry  wine,   and  garnish  with  candied 

cherries  when    served.     To  the  above  recipe  may  be  added  £ 

doz.  stale   maccaroons,  J  lb.  blanched  and  chopped  almonds, 

and  2  tb.    chopped  candied  cherries  (in  which  case  dispense 

with  whole  cherries  as  a  garnish). 

Mrs.  C.  B.  James. 

White  Charlotte  Russe  with  Fruit. 

One  qt.  cream,  1  lb.  sugar,  \  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  1  wine 
glass  wine,  1  t.  vanilla,  whites  of  6  eggs,  \  lb.  crystalized 
cherries,  2  rounds  of  crystalized  pineapple,  both  cut  fine;  1  c. 
of  chopped  almonds.  Add  part  of  the  sugar  to  cream  and 
whip  to  a  stiff  froth.  Whip  eggs  stiff;  add  remaining  sugar  to 
them,  then  whip  them  into  the  cream;  beat  well  and  flavor. 
Lastly,  add  the  gelatine  after  it  has  been  dissolved  into  J  c. 
of  water.     Whip  all  together,  then  add  the  fruit. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Armstrong. 

Fruit=SaIpicon  (Sweet). 

Three  bananas,  2  oranges  or  a  pt.  of  strawberries,  \  pine- 
apple, \  c.  Maraschino  cherries,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  c.  sugar,  \ 
lb.  white  grapes.  Peel  bananas,  remove  coarse  threads  and 
slice.  Peel  oranges,  seed,  and  cut  in  slices.  Peel  pineapple 
and  with  fork  pull  off  fruit  from  the  core.  Skin  the  grapes  and 
take  out  seed  and  cut  in  2  parts.  If  the  strawberries  are  used 
cut  in  half.  Mix  the  fruit  lightly  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice 
and  chill  thoroughly  and  quickly.  Serve  in  sherbert  cups  with 
whipped  cream  as  a  sweet  dish  at  the  close  of  dinner,  or  without 
cream,  as  a  relish,  at  the  beginning  of  luncheon  party. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

PI  ANTFNF  *a  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


72  RECIPES. 

Chocolate  Fluff. 

Two  tb.  grated  chocolate,  or  cocoa,  add  an  equal  amount  of 
sugar  and  enough  butter  to  moisten;  bring  to  a  boil;  when  cool 
add  slowly  the  stiff  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  flavor.  Beat 
well  and  serve  in  glasses  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Gilbert. 
Apple  Sauce  Souffle. 
Beat  2  c.  of  sweet  apple  sauce  to  a  foamy  cream,  with  a  tb. 
of  melted  butter,  add  a  c.  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  bit  of  nutmeg.  Whip  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  bake  h  hr.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Gilbert. 

Sham  Tarte. 

Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  for  20  min.,  then  add  1  c.  sugar, 
then  1  tb.  vinegar,  1  t.  vanilla.  Put  in  a  deep  cake  pan  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  40  min.  Let  cool  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.     Flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Leo.  Altheimer. 

Strawberry  Fritters. 

One  c.  of  strawberry  pulp,  3  eggs,  1  t.  sugar,  1  c.  flour,  1  t. 
baking  powder,  add  to  this  more  flour  to  make  thick  drop 
batter;  crush  and  sieve  enough  berries  to  make  1  c.  of  pulp. 
Mix.  Fry  in  deep  kettle  with  smoking  hot  fat  and  serve  with 
plenty  of  mashed  berries. 

Alice  Mallary. 
Charlotte  Russe. 

One  qt.  rich  cream,  5  eggs,  1  tumbler  sugar,  f  box  gelatine; 
beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  and  flavor  to  taste.  Pour  into 
this  whipped  cream.  Keep  cream  on  ice  before  and  while  being 
whipped;  add  gelatine.  (First  cover  with  cold  water  for  1  hr., 
then  add  tumbler  of  boiling  water. )  Stir  in  the  whites  (beaten 
stiff)  and  mix  well.     Set  in  the  ice  box  until  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  Wm.  N.  Tickxor. 


PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  Lnli  I  Lml  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


recipp:s.  73 


Peach  Short-cake. 

Make  B.  P.  biscuit  dough,  sweeten  slightly,  cut  out  2  large 
rounds  ^  in.  thick;  put  one  on  the  other,  with  soft  butter  between, 
and  bake.  Separate  layers  and  spread  the  lower  one  with 
peaches,  sweetened  and  crushed;  lay  on  top  layer  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  arrange  a  circle  of  halved  peaches  all 
around  the  edge.     Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Munnerlyn. 

Trifle. 

One  layer  of  sliced  sponge-cake  in  a  dish,  1  layer  of  syllabub 
quite  strong  with  sherry,  1  layer  of  boiled  custard,  1  layer  of 
small  pieces  of  jelly,  1  layer  of  sliced  almonds  which  have 
been  peeled  by  dropping  them  in  hot  water  and  rubbing  the 
outside  skin  off,  and  broken  up  in  small  pieces,  1  layer  of 
raisins,  after  taking  skins  off.  Repeat  these  layers  until  the  dish 
is  full,  and  put  syllabub  on  top. 

Mrs.  Clark  Howell. 

Apple  Foam. 

Pare  and  quarter  ripe,  juicy  apples  to  fill  a  pt.  cup;  to  1  pt. 
water  and  1  c.  sugar  add  the  apples  and  cook  until  tender, 
without  breaking.  Mix  3  tb.  corn  starch  in  little  cold  water, 
add  to  apples,  stirring  constantly;  cook  5  min.,  turn  into  a 
mold,  previously  dipped  in  cold  water  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Ambrosia. 

One  pt.  ripe  strawberries,  1  pt.  chopped  pineapple,  1  pt.  of 
cream  (whip  cream  stiff),  place  a  layer  of  pineapple  in  a  glass 
dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover  with  whipped  cream,  then  with 
a  layer  of  the  berries,  continue  these  layers  until  the  dish  is 
full;  heap  the  sugar  on  top  and  serve  very  cold  with  sponge 
cake. 


PI  AIMTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
r  LftM  iL.nL.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


74  RECIPES. 

Pyramid  of  Peaches. 

Take  8  or  10  peaches,  peel  and  halve.  Cook  till  tender  in 
syrup  made  of  1  c.  each  of  water  and  sugar,  drain.  Arrange 
peaches  in  pyramid  shape  with  blanched  almond  in  center  of 
each.  Add  juice  of  ^  lemon  to  syrup  and  boil  until  thick,  pour 
over  peaches.     Serve  hot  or  cold.  J.  S. 

Apple  Custard. 

Pare,  core  and  split  12  apples.  Boil  1  pt.  of  water,  1  lb.  of 
loaf  sugar  and  12  cloves,  and  skim.  Put  in  the  apple  and  stew 
until  the  liquid  is  nearly  gone.  Lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  and 
take  out  the  cloves.  When  they  are  cool  pour  in  1  qt.  of 
custard  and  cook  by  setting  in  a  dish  of  boiling  water  until  it 
has  set. 

J.  S. 

Cream  Puffs. 

One  cup  boiling  water  and  \  cup  butter.  Let  come  to  boil; 
add  (stiring  constantly)  1  cup  sifted  flour;  take  off  stove  and 
stir  until  cool,  then  add  3  eggs,  beating  in  1  at  a  time;  bake  in 
muffin  rings  and  when  cold  fill  with  the  cream  filling. 

Cream    Filling. 

Let  2  cups  of  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Whip  2  eggs  with  3  tb. 
of  sugar,  then  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk;  dissolve  1  tb.  of 
corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  add  it  to  the  custard, 
stirring  until  it  thickens.      Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Ruth. 


MEMORANDA.  75 


76  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  77 


78  MEMORANDA. 


RECIPES. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating  " 
Plum  Pudding. 
One  lb.  of  seeded  raisins,  1  lb.  of  currants  washed  and  dried; 
1  lb.  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine;  2  lbs.  sugar  or  2  qts. ;  12  eggs, 
beat  separately;  2  5-ct.  loaves  of  stale  Baker's  bread,  grated  fine 
or  run  through  a  meat-grinder,  or  if  crumbs  are  bought,  get  2 
lbs.;  J  tumbler  of  brandy  or  whiskey,  2  ts.  of  B.  powder,  % 
nutmeg,  |-  t.  each  of  ground  fresh  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon, 
mace,  making  2  t.  heaped  of  spices  altogether;  grate  peel  of  1 
lemon;  use  hard  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar,  seasoned  with  nut- 
meg (not  essences)  and  brandy.  Boil  4^  hrs.  in  a  large  vessel, 
so  that  water  will  cover  well.  Rub  raisins  and  currants  well  in 
flour  and  mix  all  of  the  ingredients  with  milk  or  water,  just 
thin  enough  to  handle  easily.  Have  ready  a  large  pudding- 
mould  or  bag  of  strong  domestic  (I  prefer  the  bag);  put  in  the 
mixture,  leaving  room  enough  to  have  the  pudding  swell  about 
•^in.     Let  the  water  be  boiling  when  it  is  put  in,  and  boil  4^ 

hrs.,  as  stated. 

Mrs.  Emma  Sutton. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

Take  §  lb.  each  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  stoned  raisins, 
and  currants;  £  lb.  of  citron,  f  lb.  of  sugar,  f  lb.  of  stale  bread 
crumbs,  2  medium-sized  apples  (cut  in  small  slices),  grated 
peel  of  1  lemon;  mix  the  whole  with  3  pounded  cloves,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  1  t.  of  allspices,  ^  t.  of  mace,  1  t.  of  cinnamon,  1  wine- 
glass of  brandy.  Butter  a  pudding-mould;  fill  with  the  mixture 
within  ^  in.  of  the  top;  place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and 
allow  it  to  steam  4  hrs. ,  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  pour  -§-  wine- 
glass of  brandy  over  it  and  put  on  fire.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Hilburn. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  Llit.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


80  KECIPES. 

Candy  Pudding. 

Have  prepared  1  grated  cocoanut,  J  c.  of  almonds,  ^  c.  of 
pecans,  |  c.  of  English  walnuts  (all  cut  up  fine),  |-  c.  raisins,  £  c. 
currants,  ^  c.  citron,  3  lbs.  granulated  sugar  dissolved  in  tumbler 
of  boiling  water,  butter  size  of  walnut,  2  tb.  of  vinegar,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  soda.  Cover  while  cooking;  when  done  enough  to 
pull,  pour  on  a  buttered  marble  slab  and  pull  white;  then  put 
back  on  slab  and  work  in  the  cocoanut  first,  then  the  fruit. 
Knead  the  mass  as  you  would  dough,  getting  out  all  lumps; 
have  ready  a  well-buttered  mould  and  pack  the  mass  in  it 
firmly  and  set  aside  in  a  cooling  place  until  next  day.  Remove 
from  mould  by  placing  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  for  a  few 
seconds  only.  When  taken  out,  sprinkle  thick  with  cinnamon, 
or  if  you  prefer,  can  use  grated  chocolate. 

Mrs.  Julia  Stevens. 
Castelian  Pudding. 

Half  box  gelatine,  ^  c.  cocoa,  1^  c.  sugar,  8  tb.  sherry  wine, 
2  tb.  vanilla,  6  eggs  (whites).  Soak  gelatine;  mix  ^  c.  cold 
water;  put  cocoa  in  saucepan  with  sugar;  add  ^  c.  cold  water; 
mix;  add  ^  c.  boiling  water;  boil  5  min.  Take  from  fire;  add 
gelatine;  stir  until  dissolved;  then  strain  and  set  aside;  when 
cool,  add  sherry  and  vanilla;  when  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  add 
whites  whipped  stiff.  Beat  steadily  until  mixture  is  thick  enough 
for  a  spoonful  to  retain  its  shape  for  a  moment  when  dropped; 
put  into  a  mold.     Serve  with  boiled  custard  and  whipped  cream. 

Philo  Sturges. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding. 

Put  into  a  bowl  2  c.  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  pour  over  it  1  qt. 
scalded  milk;  while  cooling  put  2  squares  of  chocolate  into  a 
saucepan  and  melt  over  hot  water.  When  the  bread  and  milk 
are  cool  mix  with  them  §  c.  sugar,  2  eggs,  the  chocolate,  ssp.  of 
salt,  and  1  t.  vanilla.  Bake  1  hr.  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Miss  Lydia  E.  Richards. 
Editor's  Note — This  is  nice  served  hot  with  drawn  butter  sauce. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  81 

Rice  Pudding. 

One-half  c.  cooked  rice,  2  eggs,  1  c.  sugar,  1  qt.  milk,  |  cup 
chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  pinch  of   salt;  flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Whitehead. 

Christmas  Pudding. 

Slice  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  and  spread  with  plenty  of  butter, 
1  layer  of  bread  close  together  in  pan,  sprinkle  liberally  with 
fruit,  currants  and  raisins,  then  another  layer  of  buttered  bread 
and  fruit  until  the  pan  is  1  inch  of  oeing  full.  Make  a  custard 
out  of  1  qt.  of  milk  and  4  eggs;  sweeten  to  taste.  Pour  over 
contents  of  pan  and  let  it  set  over  night,  next  morning  make 
another  custard  |  the  quantity  and  pour  over.  Set  pan  in  oven 
immediately  after  breakfast  and  bake  4  or  5  hr.  When 
pudding  browns  set  plate  over  to  keep  from  burning.  Serve 
with  butter  sauce. 

Mrs.S.  E.  Campbell. 

Chocolate    Pudding. 

Four  c.  milk,  4  tb.  corn  starch,  4  tb.  grated  chocolate,  §  c. 
sugar,  1  egg.  Boil  milk,  stir  in  corn  starch  after  being  wet  with 
a  little  water;  add  to  beaten  eggs  sugar  and  chocolate,  boil  till 
thick;  pour  into  cups  that  have  been  wet  with  cold  water  and 
-serve  with  whipped  cream.  Whip  1  c.  of  cream  sweetened  to 
taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla . 

Caramel  Pudding. 

Four  eggs,   1  c.  sugar,  1  c.  butter,  1  c.  jelly  or  preserves,  1 
tb.  vanilla;  eggs  beaten  separately.     Make  merangue. 
Blackberry  Sponge. 

Fill  an  earthen  bowl  closely  with  small  cubes  of  bread, 
pouring  over  the  bread  as  it  is  fitted  into  place  hot  blackberry 
juice;  blackberries  cooked  until  soft,  with  sugar  to  taste,  and 
pass  through  a  seive;  use  all  the  juice  the  bread  will  absorb; 
set  the  sponge  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  some  hrs. ;  then  turn 
from  the  bowl  and  serve  with  blackberries,  sugar  and  cream. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnll  I  LIlL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


82  RECIPES. 


Kiss  Pudding. 


Six  eggs,  6  c.  sweet  milk,  6  t.  flour,  6  t.  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  beat  yolks  of  eggs;  add  sugar;  then  flour  dissolved  in  a 
little  water;  add  milk  and  salt  and  flavoring;  put  in  a  pan  and 
set  in  boiling  water,  stirring  occasionally,  until  it  thickens; 
make  a  meringue  of  the  whites,  adding  6  tb.  sugar,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  pinch  of  B.  powder  and  a  few  drops  of  extract  of  lemon. 
Put  this  on  pudding  or  place  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it 
browns  slightly.     Serve  cold. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  1  c.  sugar,  dissolve  4  tb.  corn 
starch  in  a  little  cold  water;  stir  into  it  2  c.  of  boiling  water; 
add  juice  of  2  lemons  with  a  little  of  grated  rind;  1  tb.  butter; 
mix  well  and  bake  15  min.  Then  spread  the  white  of  eggs  over 
it  with  little  sugar  whipped  in.     Return  to  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Flournoy, 

Fort  Mitchell,  Ala. 

Boiled  Pudding. 

One  c.  flour,  2  c.  bread  crumbs,  1  c.  syrup,  1  c.  butter,  1  c. 
raisins,  1  c.  currants,  1  c.  citron,  1  c.  sweet  milk,  1  tb.  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  1  t.  cinnamon,  1  t.  allspice,  1 
t.  cloves,  ij  t.  salt;  steam  3  hrs.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce. 

One  c.  sugar,  i  c.  butter,  1  tb.  sifted  flour  and  1  egg  beaten 
until  light;  add  ^  nutmeg,  grated,  just  before  serving  add  to 
this  1  c.  boiling  water,  ^  c.  brandy  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil. 

Baked  Batter  Pudding. 

One  qt.  sweet  milk,  10  eggs,  10  tb.  flour;  stir  until  all  lumps 
are  mashed.  Pour  in  greased  tin  and  bake.  Serve  hot  with 
wine  sauce. 

Mrs.  James  T.  Grimes. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ectr  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.      Observe  directions  on  can. 


THE    BEST    COOK. 

COOKS  BEST  ON  THE  BEST. 
COOK  STOVE,    jb    jk    jt 


"B 


ELL   &;   SON,    Albany,  Georgia. 

Largest  Dealers  in  STOVES,  RANGES,  REFRIGER- 
ATORS and  COOK  THINGS  in  general. 


WILL  FURNISH 

THE  MOST  IMPORTANT  INGREDIENT. 


THE  BEST  STOVES,  RANGES. 
COOKING    UTENSIL. 

ALBANY,    -    -    GEORGIA. 

TXrHEN  you   have  trouble  in  planing  your  menu 
just  telephone  No.  370  for  fancy  and  family 
groceries,  fresh  vegetables  and   fruits.      Florida  fruits 
and  vegetables  a  specialty. 

T.  E.  COOK, 

HO  Jackson  Street.        &  J>        ALBANY,  GEORGIA, 

Wm.  E.   SMITH, 

A  TTORNEY-A  T-LA  W. 

COLLECTIONS    A    SPECIALTY. 

ROOMS    I,   2   AND   4, 

WOOLFOLK     BUILDING, 

ALBANY,     GEORGIA. 


84  RECIPES. 


Yorkshire  Pudding. 

One  qt.  sweet  milk,  8  light  tb.  of  flour,  8  eggs;  beat  separately; 
mix  flour  and  milk  until  perfectly  smooth;  add  eggs;  bake  in 
quick  oven. 

Sauce. 

Two  tb.   of  butter,   6  tb.  sugar;  rub  together  until  they  are 

creamed.     Flavor  with  wine. 

Mrs.  W.  N.  Ticknor. 

Indian  Pudding. 

Scald  3  c.  of  milk  and  in  it  J  c.  corn  meal;  cook  a  few  min. ; 
then  cool  and  add  1  c.  of  milk,  §  c.  of  molasses,  h  a  level  t.  of 
cinnamon,  ^  t.  of  salt  and  f  c.  of  raisins.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
2  hrs.,  keeping  the  baking-dish  covered. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Rawlins. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Sweet  milk,  1  qt. ;  tapioca,  1  c. ;  2  eggs,  4  tb.  sugar,  lump  of 
butter  \  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  nutmeg. 
Note — The  tapioca  should  soak  in  the  milk  1  full  hr. ;  then 
beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together;  mix  well  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Chas.  R.  Johnson. 

Hard  Sauce. 

Beat  to  a  fine  cream  \  lb.  of  butter,  add  gradually  1  c.  of 
pulverized  sugar,  a  wineglass  full  of  sherry,  a  wineglass  full 
of  French  brandy,  enough  lemon  juice  to  bleach  the  mixture. 
Powder  with  nutmeg  and  put  in'a  cold  place  until  needed.  This 
sauce  is  better  if  made  the  day  before  used. 

Mrs.  W.  I.  Cherry. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

The  yolks  of  10  eggs,  whites  of  5  eggs,  juice  of  2  large  lemons, 
(grated  peel),  1  c.  of  butter,  1^  c.  of  sugar. 

A.  B.  C. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LIlL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  85 

Hasty  Pudding. 

Twelve  eggs,  12  tb.  sifted  flour,  1  qt.  milk,  a  pinch  of  soda 
put  in  when  ready  to  cook.  Mix  1  egg  and  1  tb.  of  flour  at  a 
time  until  12  are  used;  then  use  milk,  a  little  at  a  time  until 
the  qt.  is  used  Mrs.  H.  P. 

Prune  Pudding. 

Stew  2  doz.  prunes  until  soft  enough  to  mash,  add  whites  of 

3  well  beaten  eggs,  1  c.  sugar.  Bake  in  rather  cool  oven 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  J.  M. 

Jerusalem  Pudding. 

One  pt.  cream,  f  c.  ground  nuts,  f  c.  ground  preserved 
ginger,  f  c.  sugar,  J  c.  ground  dried  figs,  J  c.  rice  well  cooked 
(use  Knox's  gelatine);  whip  cream,  mix  ingredients,  stir  until 
it  congeals;  serve  with  Maraschino  cherries  on  top. 

Mrs.  Wooten. 

Strawberry  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Heat  1  qt.  strawberry  juice  in  a  double   boiler.     Stir  in  this 

4  level  tb.  of  any  quick  cooking  tapioca  and  let  cook  until 
transparent.  Add  the  juice  of  ^  a  lemon  and  additional  sugar 
if  needed.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

B.  C. 


86  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  87 


MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  89 


RECIPES. 


PIES. 

"I  -was  happy  to  find  my  old  friend  minced  pie  in  the  retinues 
of  the  feast." 

Plain  Paste. 

Many  housekeepers  use  lard  for  pastry,  but  as  it  makes  a 
greasy  and  brittle  crust  there  is  no  doubt  but  that  it  is  more 
indigestible  than  the  light,  flaky  crust  made  from  "Plantene." 
Take  \  c.  plantene,  \\  t.  baking  powder,  1  t.  salt,  1  pt.  good 
pastry  flour,  sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together;  with 
tips  of  fingers  work  in  the  plantene,  and  ice  water  enough  to 
make  a  dough.  Lay  on  ice  till  cold,  roll  and  cut  out,  chill 
again  and  bake.  Mrs.  C.  R.  N. 

Mince  Meat. 

Four  lb.  raisins  (before  seeded),  2  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  citron, 
2  lb.  suet,  2  lb.  fresh  beef  tongue  (boiled  and  chopped),  4 
lb.  apples,  4  lb.  sugar.  1  qt.  sherry,  1  qt.  brandy,  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  2  lemons,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  oranges,  1  t. 
salt,  1  nutmeg,  \  oz.  of  cloves,  \  oz.  cinnamon,  \  oz.  allspice. 
This  should  be  kept  3  weeks  before  using. 

Mrs.  Y.  C.  Rust. 

Mock  flince  Pie. 

One  c.  of  rolled  crackers,  1  c.  of  raisins,  1  c.  of  sugar,  1  c.  of 
molasses,  1  c.  of  vinegar,  ]  c.  of  chopped  apples,  1  c.  butter,  1 
pt.  boiling  water,  1  t.  cloves,  1 1.  cinnamon  and  any  other  spices 
liked.       Mix  well  together  and  bake  between  2  rich  crusts. 

Mrs.  S.  Cosby. 

Cocoanut  Custard. 

One  c.  grated  cocoanut,  2  t.  flour,  1  c.  milk,  2  eggs,  pinch  of 
salt,  \  c.  sugar.  Stir  milk  into  flour,  mix  smoothly,  place  on 
stove  and  cook  until  it  thickens;  team  over  well   beaten  yolks, 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  !_nll  I  LI1L  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.      Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  91 


add  salt  and  sugar,  then  cocoanut;  fill  crust  and  bake.  Make 
meringue  of  whites  and  place  over  custard  and  return  to  oven. 
Bake  light  brown.     Sufficient  for  1  custard. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Crossland. 

Lemon  and  Apple  Pie. 

Two  tart,  firm  apples,  1  lemon,  1  c.  sugar,  1  egg,  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon.  Chop  the  lemon  and  apple  together.  Beat  the 
egg  and  sugar  well  together;  add  the  lemon  and  apple;  bake  in 
2  crusts.  Peel  with  a  knife  the  lemon  to  avoid  the  white  rind 
which  would  give  a  bitter  taste  to  the  pie.      Peel  the  apples. 

Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Buttermilk  Custard. 

Beat  together  3  eggs  and  1  c.  of  sugar,  add  to  this  \  c.  of 
flour,  \  c.  of  butter;  stir  well.  Then  add  lie.  of  fresh  butter- 
milk with  \  t.  of  soda  dissolved  in  it;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  stir 
all  well  together.     This  will  make  two. 

Mrs.  McMichael. 

Syrup  Custard. 

One  c.  of  syrup,  1  c.  of  sugar  boiled  together  until  thick,  3 
eggs,  \  c.  of  sweet  milk,  1  tb.  of  butter  and  1  tb.  of  flour. 

E.  C. 

Custard  Pie. 

Beat  3  eggs  well,  add  1  pt.  of  milk,  a  little  nutmeg  grated,   \ 

c.  of  sugar  and   any  flavoring  to  suit,  although  vanilla  is  best. 

There  is  a  perforated  pie-plate  made  which  is  especially  suited 

to   custard  pies,   as   the  steam  escapes   and   prevents  the   pie 

becoming  soggy.     The  crust  may  be  baked  light-brown  before 

adding  the  custard.      Pricking  the  dough  before  baking  prevents 

blistering. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Gannaway. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LnlN  I  LINL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


92  RECIPES. 


Raisin  Pie. 


One  c.  of  stoned  raisins  chopped  fine,  1  lemon;  grate  rind, 
take  out  seeds  and  chop  it  fine  with  raisins;  add  1  c.  of  sugar 
and  2  tb.  of  water.  This  makes  2  pies;  bake  between  upper 
and  lower  crusts. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Gannaway. 

Tyler  Pies. 

Four  eggs,  3  c.  of  sugar  (light  measure),  1  c.  of  butter  (light 
measure),  1  c.  of  sweet  cream,  1  t.  of  grated  nutmeg.  This 
makes  2  large  or  3  small  pies.  Beat  thoroughly.  Line  the  pie- 
plates  with  plain  pastry — fill  (no  top  crust)  and  bake  until  just 
firm — no  longer      These  are  delicious. 

Mrs.  L.  McC.  Robert. 

Transparent  Custard. 

Six  eggs,  2  c.  sugar,  1  c.  butter,  eggs  beaten  separately;  add 
sugar,  then  melted  butter,  \  glass  wine.  Cook  in  pie-pans  lined 
with  rich  crust. 

Mrs.  Georgia  Cherry. 

Lemon  Custard. 

Six  eggs,  less  3  whites  for  meringue,  1  c.  sugar,  1  tb.  butter, 
1  heaping  tb.  flour,  1  c.  cold  water,  juice  1^  lemons,  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  1  tb.  sugar  for  meringue.  Mix  sugar,  yolks 
of  eggs,  flour  and  butter,  then  add  water  and  juice  of  lemons 
last.  This  makes  2  pies.  Whip  the  3  whites  with  1  tb.  sugar 
and  spread  over  the  top  and  brown  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Cooper,  Columbus,  Ga. 

Lemon  Custard. 

Three  eggs,  1  lemon,  1  c.  sugar,  1  t.  butter  and  2  tb.  of  corn- 
starch. Squeeze  lemon  in  a  c.  and  fill  c.  with  water,  then  pour 
over  sugar  and  butter;  dissolve  cornstarch  with  a  little  of  the 
lemon  water,  add  to  sugar  and  butter,  let  come  to  a  good  boil. 
Then  beat  well  yolks  and  whites  of  3  eggs,   pour  the  boiling 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  Lilt-  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  93 


syrup  slowly  over  the  eggs,  beating  all  the  time  to  keep  from 
lumping,  then  place  on  the  stove  and  cook  until  it  thickens; 
stir  continually  to  keep  from  burning. 

For  Icing. 

Take  the  2  remaining  whites,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  2  tb. 
sugar,  and  flavor  with  a  little  lemon  juice;  spread  over  custard 
and  place  back  in  oven  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Walter  Hill. 

Buttermilk  Custard. 

Take  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  c.  sugar,  ^  c.  flour,  ^  t.  soda,  2  tb. 
butter,  1  pt.  buttermilk;  flavor  with  nutmeg,  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Make  a  meringue  of  whites,  and  brown  slightly.  This  quantity 
makes  3  custards,  and  they  are  delicious.  Pour  this  in  pastry- 
shells  made  with  plantene  as  shortening  instead  of  butter  or  lard. 

Mrs.  Dave  Jones,  Columbus,  Ga. 
Meringue  that  Will  Not  Fall. 
Always  use  granulated  sugar;  for  1  large  pie   beat  stiff  the 
whites  of  2  eggs;  add  2  tb.  sugar;  beat  hard  for  5  min. ;  spread 
over  pie  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Charles  Frank. 


SMALL  CAKES. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  1  c.  sugar,  1  c.  syrup,  3  c.  flour,  1  t.  soda,  1  c. 
butter,  1  c.  sweet  milk.  Dissolve  soda  in  milk,  cream,  sugar 
and  butter,  add  yolks  well  beaten,  then  syrup,  then  milk  and 
flour.     Bake  as  thick  cake  and  can  be  eaten  with  wine  sauce. 

Wine  Sauce. 

One  c.  sugar,  1  c.  milk,  ^  cup  water.  Boil  milk  and  sugar 
together,  then  add  1  t.  flour  made  into  smooth  paste  with  £  c. 
water.     When  done  add  wine  glass  of  wine. 

Mrs.  N.  R.  Dehon. 

Pi  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  I-I'l  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


94  RECIPES. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

Two  c.  syrup,  1  c.  butter,  4  c.  Queen  of  Pantry  flour,  2 
heaping  t.  baking  powder,  6  eggs,  2  t.  cinnamon,  1  t.  ginger,  1 
t.  allspice,  a  dash  of  cloves  (if  liked);  beat  eggs  separately; 
mix  syrup,  yolks  of  eggs,  spices  and  melted  butter  in  a  bowl, 
beat  well;  sift  baking  powder  in  flonr  and  add  to  mixture  in 
bowl  and  lastly  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs.  Serve  with  or 
without  sauce. 

Mrs.  L.  F.  Allen. 

Ginger  Bread. 

One  c.  syrup,  \  c.  sugar,  3  c.  flour,  \  c.  boiling  water,  1  egg, 
-jC  butter,  2  t.  soda,  ginger  to  suit  taste  (good). 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Gannaway. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

Two  c.  syrup,  1  c.  lard,  1  large  tb.  soda,  1  large  tb.  ginger. 
Put  on  fire  and  boil  hard  for  1  min.-  Take  off  and  when  cool, 
mix  enough  flour  in  for  a  stiff  dough ;  roll  thin  and  bake. 

Mrs.  John  D.  Pope. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

Two  c.  sugar,  2  c.  molasses,  1  c.  lard,  4  eggs,  2  tb.  soda,  1  tb. 
ginger,  1  tb.  cinnamon. 

Crullars. 

One  c.  sweet  milk,  level  c.  sugar,  1  egg,  a  rounding  tb.  of 
butter,  enough  prepared  flour  to  make  dough  as  stiff  as  biscuit 
dough.  Then  roll  to  quarter"  of  an  inch  thickness  and  cut  with 
biscuit  form,  drop  in  boiling  lard  and  let  cook  until  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Campbell. 

Doughnuts. 

One  c.  sugar,  2  tb.  shortening,  2  eggs,  1  c.  sweet  milk,  1  t. 
salt,  3  t.  baking  powder,  sufficient  flour  to  make  as  soft  a  dough 
as  you  can  roll;  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  fry  in  hot  lard  or  plantene. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Whichard. 

PI  ANTFNF"  *s  a  Per^ec*'  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  l_.nl  l  f  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  95 


Filled  Tea  Cake. 

One  large  c.  of  pecans,  1  large  o.  of  raisins,  1  qt.  flour,  1 
large  c.  of  currants,  3  eggs,  1  large  c.  of  citron,  1  t.  extract,  1 
large  c.  of  butter,  2  t.  yeast  powder,  1  large  c.  sugar.  Beat 
butter  and  sugar  together;  then  eggs;  then  flavoring  and  flour. 
Have  the  fruits  well  floured;  add  spice,  and  lastly  the  fruit. 
Roll  thin  and  cut;  have  an  egg  beaten  up  and  brush  over  the 
uncooked  cakes;  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  and  bake  slowly. 
They  are  better  to  keep  a  week  or  so  before  using. 

Mrs.  Morris  Mayer. 

Vanilla  Tea  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  1  c.  sugar.  1  c.  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  t.  cream 
of  tartar,  1  t.  soda,  2  tb.  sweet  milk,  1  t.  vanilla,  1  qt.  flour. 

Mrs.  Dehon. 

Plain  Tea  Cake. 

Three  c.  of  dry  sugar,  1  c.  butter,  1  c.  sour  milk,  3  pt.  flour, 

3  eggs  well-beaten,  Jt.  soda;  flavor  to  taste;  roll  thin  and  bake  in 

quick  oven. 

Miss  Sallie  E.  Billingslea. 

Marguerites. 

The  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  light,  to  this  add  1  c.  of 
pulverized  sugar,  4  t.  flour,  a  pinch  of  baking  powder,  a  c.  of 
chopped  nuts;  spread  on  long  snowflake  crackers  put  in  oven 
and  bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  A.  T.  Jackson. 

Hermits. 

Six  eggs,  3  t.  sugar,  2  c.  butter,  1  c.  chopped  and  seeded 
raisins,  1  c.  currants,  1  t.  each  of  all  the  spices,  sweet  milk 
enough  to  dissolve  1  t.  of  soda,  just  enough  flour  to  roll  outr 
and  bake  like  tea  cakes;  will  keep  for  weeks  in  tin  box. 

Mrs.  E.  Sterne. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
lLr\M  !  Li  XL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


96  RECIPES. 

Hickory  Nut  Macaroons. 

One  pt.  granulated  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  pt.  flour,  1  pt.  of  kernels, 
stir  together  and  drop  on  a  buttered  flat  tin;  bake  slowly  for  20 
minutes.  Mrs.  W.  W.  Rawlings. 

Peanut  Macaroons. 

Mix  1  c.  of  finely  chopped  peanuts,  1  c.  of  sifted  confectioners 
sugar,  1  large  tb.  of  flour,  and  make  into  a  stiff  paste  with  the 
unbeaten  whites  of  2  eggs;  drop  upon  buttered  pans,  allowing 
room  to  spread,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Floyed. 

Almond  Wafers. 

Cream  \  c.  butter,  add  gradually  1  c.  powdered  sugar,  and 
then  drop  by  drop  \  c.  milk,  and  lastly  2  c.  pastry  flour  and  \ 
t.  vanilla  extract.  Spread  very  thin  on  the  bottom  of  baking 
pans,  inverted  and  buttered.  Mark  in  squares,  sprinkle  with 
almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about 
5  min.  Cut  the  wafers  apart  at  the  marking  and  roll  at  once, 
while  warm,  either  in  tubular  or  cornucopia  shape.  Before 
rolling,  turn  the  wafers  to  bring  the  nuts  on  the  outside. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Lockett. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

Take  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  stir  in  equal  parts  of 
dessicated  cocoanut  and  powdered  sugar  until  it  forms  a  thick 
paste;  shape  into  balls  and  bake  on  buttered  paper  until  a  pale 
brown. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Rawlings. 

Peanut  Wafers. 

Take  \  c.  butter,  \  c.  pulverized  sugar,  §  c.  milk,  1  c.  fiour? 
\  c.  chopped  peanuts.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  together;  stir  in 
milk;  add  flour  by  degrees;  rub  flat  pans  with  beeswax;  when 
cold,  spread  with  thin  cakes;  sprinkle  top  with  peanuts  and  bake. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Gilbert. 

PI  ANTFNF  *a  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  LliL.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES. 


Sweet  Wafers. 


Six  eggs,  1  pt.  flour,  1  c.  sweet  milk,  2  oz.  melted  butter,  1 
scant  t.  Royal  baking  powder,  1  t.  nutmeg.  Beat  whites  and 
yolks  separately  and  very  stiff.  Cream  sugar  and  butter  together 
and  work  in  first  the  yolks  and  then  the  flour  and  whites. 
Bake  quickly  in  well-greased  wafer-irons;  roll  them  as  soon  as 
they  come  from  the  irons.  These  little  cakes  are  delicious  and 
not  hard  to  make.      They  only  require  a  little  patience. 

Sallie  Steele  MgIntosh. 

Sweet  Wafers. 

Five  eggs,  \  lb.  flour,  \  lb.  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg;  beat 
eggs  and  sugar  together;  rub  butter  in  flour  and  beat  all 
together.  Flavor  to  taste  with  any  flavoring,  and  bake  in  wafer 
irons,  using  \  t.  of  batter  for  each  wafer. 

Mrs.  Munnerlyn. 

Sweet  Wafers. 

One  qt.  flour.  1  tb.  butter,  1  c.  sugar,  3  eggs,  milk  and  water 
enough  to  make  thin  batter. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Pope. 


98  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  99 

LOFC. 


100  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  101 


/ 


102  RECIPES. 


CAKES  AND  FILLINGS 


"  With  weight  and  measure  just  and  true, 
Oven  of  even  heat; 
Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 
Success  will   be  complete." 

Scripture  Cake. 

One  c.  butter  (Judges  5:25);  3|  c.  flour  (I.  Kings,  4:  22);  3 
c.  sugar  (Jer.  6:20);  2  c.  raisins  (I.  Sam.  30:12);  2  c.  figs  (I. 
Sam.  30:12);  1  c.  water  (Gen.  24:17);  1  c.  almonds  (Gen. 
43:11);  6  eggs  (Isa.  10:14);  1  lb.  honey  (Ps.  19:10);  a  pinch 
salt  (Lev.  2:13);  spices  to  taste  (I.  Kings  10:10).  Follow 
Solomon's  advice  for  making  good  boys  and  girls  and  you  will 
have  a  good  cake  (Prov.  23:14  first  clause). 

Fruit  Cake. 

(This  recipe  is  over  100 years  old). 

One  lb.  flour  (brown  the  flour),  1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  1 
lb.  raisins  (stoned),  2  lb.  currants,  2  lb.  citron,  12  eggs,  4  t. 
cinnamon,  2  t.  mace,  2  t.  cloves,  2  grated  nutmegs,  J  glass  of 
sherry,  \  glass  whiskey,  \  c.  syrup,  1  t.  soda  stirred  well  in  the 
syrup.      Flour  fruit  well  and  shake  in  a  sifter;  bake  5  hr. 

Mrs.  Nelson  Tift. 

Spanish  Fruit  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  1  c.  butter,  2  c.  sugar,  2  c.  flour,  1  c.  sweet  milk. 
Divide  the  batter  in  2  parts;  bake  2  layers  plain.  To  the  other 
\  add  1  c.  raisins,  chopped  fine,  1  t.  cinnamon,  1  t.  spices,  1 
t.  cloves;  bake  in  2  layers. 

PI  ANTFIMF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LAAIi  I  LllL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
*'Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  103 


Filling. 


One  large  cocoanut  grated,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons; 
add  to  this  li  c.  sugar,  1  c.  boiling  water.  Put  on  the  stove 
and  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  tb.  corn  starch  or  flour;  cook 
until  done  enough  to  drop  from  spoon. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Dewberry. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Cake. 

One  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  f  lb.  butter,  2  lb.  raisins,  2  lb. 
English  walnuts,  whites  15  eggs,  1  t.  soda,  2  t.  of  cream  tartar, 
dissolved  in  £  c.  sweet  milk. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Newsom. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  c.  butter,  2  c.  sugar,  1  c.  molasses,  1  c.  strong  coffee,  4^- 
c.  flour,  4  eggs,  2  tb.  soda,  2  tb.  each  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace, 
1  grated  nutmeg,  1  lb.  each  of  raisins,  figs,  currants  and  dates,  f 
lb.  citron.  Mix  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  thoroughly;  heat  coffee 
and  stir  in  soda;  when  soda  is  dissolved,  pour  into  molasses;  stir 
well  and  add  to  sugar  and  butter.  Sift  flour  and  spices  together; 
seed  and  chop  raisins,  clean  currants,  cut  figs  and  citron  and 
dates  into  small  pieces,  sift  a  little  of  the  flour  over  fruit,  stir 
rest  of  flour  into  batter,  and  when  well-mixed,  add  fruit,  and 
lastly,  beaten  white  of  eggs.  Bake  in  large  tin  in  rather  slow 
oven  for  1|-  hr. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Moseley. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  c.  butter,  2  c.  sugar,  mixed;  6  eggs,  4  c.  flour,  2  t.  B. 
powder,  1  c.  syrup,  1  c.  sweet  milk,  1  nutmeg,  2  t.  of  cloves,  2t. 
of  cinnamon,  2.  t.  spice,  i  c.  wine,  1  lb.  raisins,  1  lb.  currants, 
^  lb.  citron,  1  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped;  i  lb.  dried 
figs,  1  lb.  dates,  ^  t.  soda.  Roll  fruit  in  extra  flour  before 
putting  into  batter. 

Mrs.  Lee  Dees,  Sylvester,  Ga. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  Lnll  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


104  RECIPES. 


Dark  Fruit  Cake. 

One  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  12  eggs,  2  lb.  seeded 
raisins,  1  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  sliced  citron,  ^  lb.  cherries,  i  lb. 
pineapple,  h  c.  wine,  ^  c.  brandy,  \  lb.  each  pecans,  English 
walnuts,  almonds  and  Brazil  nuts,  1  t.  baking  powder,  2  t. 
cinnamon,  1  t.  salt,  ^  t.  each  cloves  and  mace,  f  t.  each  allspice 
and  nutmeg,  3  tb.  strained  lemon  juice.  Mix  fruit,  nuts,  wine 
and  brandy;  soak  over  night;  sift  flour,  salt  and  powders  and 
spice  together.  Dredge  fruit  with  flour  parched  light-brown. 
Cream  batter  and  sugar;  add  beaten  yolks  and  lemon  juice; 
then  flour  and  whipped  whites;  beat  10  min. ;  stir  in  prepared 
fruit.  Line  loaf-pan  with  4  thicknesses  of  paper;  pour  in 
batter.  Bake  in  slow  oven,  under  pan  of  boiling  water,  from 
3  to  5  hr.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Morton. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

One  lb.  almonds,  1  lb.  citron,  1  lb.  sugar,  \  lb.  butter,  \  lb. 
cherries,  (crystalized),  \  lb.  pineapple,  (crystalized)  1  small 
cocoanut,  1  glass  brandy,  12  eggs,  (whites)  1  lb.  flour,  with  1 
t.  baking  powder,  or  flour  mixed  with  powders. 

Mixing — Cream  butter  and  sugar;  then  add  brandy;  then 
add  fruits,  flour  and  eggs,  alternately.     Use  no  other  flavoring. 

Currant  Layer  Cake. 

Make  white  cake  batter  by  any  good  receipt.  Into  ^  batter, 
stir  1  c.  of  currants  well  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  in  3  layers, 
2  plain,  and  1  with  the.  currants.  Put  together  with  white 
caramel  filling. 

WHITE    CARAMEL   FILLING. 

Boil  3  c.  granulated  sugar  with  1^  c.  water,  until  it  will 
thread  from  spoon.  Pour  syrup  into  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
2  eggs,  and  beat;  when  nearly  cold  stir  in  1  t.  butter,  which 
has  been  creamed.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Muse. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
r  Lr\M  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  105 

Nut  Cake. 

2  c.  sugar,  3  c.  sifted  flour,  1  c.  butter,  2  c.  chopped  nuts 
(mixed)  5  eggs,  beaten  separately,  If  t.  baking  powder.  1  t. 
vanilla.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven.  This  makes  3  round 
or  2  square  layers.  Mrs.  P.  L.  Hilsmax. 

Delicate  Cake. 

Three  c.  sifted  flour,  2  c.  sugar,  f  c.  sweet  milk,  ^  t.  soda  in 
water  or  milk,  1  t.  cream  tartar  sifted  in  flour,  6  eggs,  whites 
only,  ^  c.  butter;  flavor  with  lemon.  J.  B.  S. 

Fig  Cake. 

White  part.  2  c.  sugar,  f  c.  butter,  (rub  to  a  cream)  §  c. 
sweet  milk,  whites  of  8  eggs,  2  t.  baking  powder,  2  c.  flour,  1 
c.  cornstarch;  add  eggs  last.  Dark  part — 1  c.  sugar,  §  c. 
butter,  |  c.  sweet  milk,  2  t.  baking  power,  2  c.  flour,  yolks  of 
8  eggs,  2  t.  cinnamon,  2  t.  spice.  Bake  white  batter  in  3  layers; 
cut  up  1  lb.  dried  figs  in  dark  batter;  bake  in  2  layers;  put 
layers  together  with  white  icing.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Davis. 

Texas  Nut  Cake. 

Whites  of  14  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar,  f  lb.  flour,  |  lb.  butter,  cream 
butter  and  sugar;  add  flour,  with  2  t.  baking  powder  sifted  in 
it.  Then  add  f  lb.  of  grated  coooanut  and  §  lb.  of  pecan 
meats,  cut  fine.  Flavor  with  rose  water.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Davis. 

Marble  Cake. 

Light  part — 1J  c.  white  sugar,  J  c.  butter,  ^  c.  sweet  milk, 
^  t.  soda,  1  t.  cream  of  tartar,  whites  of  4  eggs,  2^  c.  flour. 

Dark  part — 1  c.  brown  sugar,  h  c.  molasses,  ^  c.  butter,  \  c. 
sour  milk,  \  t.  soda,  1  t.  cream  of  tartar,  2h  c.  flour,  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  ^  tb.  each  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  (ground). 
When  each  part  is  ready  drop  a  tb.  of  dark,  then  light,  over  the 
bottom  of  pan,  and  continue  alternating  until  all  batter  is  used. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Westberry. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  perfect  substit\ite  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


106  RECIPES. 

Black  Chocolate   Cake. 

1  c.  grated  chocolate,  J  c.  brown  sugar,  h  c.  sweet  milk.   Cook 

until  thick,  then  take  from  stove  and  add  yolk  of  one  egg  and  1 

t.  of  vanilla.     While  this  is  cooling,  cream  together  1  c.   butter 

and  1  c.  white  sugar;  add  3  well  beaten  eggs,  1  t.  soda  dissolved 

in  J  c.   strong  coffee  (cold)  and  2  full  c.   sifted  flour.     Then 

beat  in  the  chocolate  mixture.      Bake  in  3  layers.     Filling — 2 

c.  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs,  §  c.   hot  wa£er,  J  t.   cream  of  tartar 

and  juice  of  -J  lemon.      Dissolve  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  in 

the  hot  water.      Cook  until  it  strings,  then  add  gradually  to 

beaten   whites,    then  lemon  juice.      When  perfectly   cool  and 

thick  spread  between  cakes. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  McIntosh. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Baker's  chocolate  \  cake,  sugar  §  c.  water  1  c.  milk,  f  c. 
Grate  chocolate,  add  water  and  sugar.  Cook  a  few  minutes, 
then  pour  in  milk  and  cook  to  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Set 
aside  to  get  cold. 

CAKE. 

Eggs  6,  sugar  2  c. ,  butter  1  c. ,  milk  or  water  1  c. ,  baking 
powder  2  t.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolk  of  eggs, 
then  3  c.  flour  alternatel}'  with  milk  or  water,  then  mix  with 
the  batter  the  chocolate,  when  perfectly  cold,  sift  powder  with 
last  cup  of  flour  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  4  layers  and  put  together  with  icing  or  caramel. 

Mrs.  L.  F.  Allen. 
Jam  Cake. 

Sugar  2  c. ,  flour  4  c. ,  milk  1  c,  eggs  6,  butter  1  c. ,  blackberry 
jam  2  c,  cloves  2  t. ,  cinnamon  4  t. ,  spice  1  t. ,  baking  powder 
2  t.,  cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  well  beaten  }7olks,  then  2  c. 
flour,  alternating  with  milk,  now  add  spice  and  jam  (^  c.  less 
if  jam  is  seedless),  sift  powder  in  rest  of  flour.  Alternate  with 
well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  4  layers  and  put  together 
with  icing. 

Mrs.  M.  Whitaker,  Oswichee,  Ala. 

PI  AIMTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
1  Lrtli  •  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  107 


Snow  Cake. 

Sugar,  If  c;  flour,  3  c. ;  butter,  J  c. ;  sweet  milk,  \  c. ;  whites 
of  8  eggs,  \\  t.  baking  powder:  bake  in  la}''ers.  Fruit,  to  put 
in  icing  between  layers  of  cake:  Pineapple,  Jib.,  crystalized 
cherries,  §  lb.;  pecans,  1  lb.  Slice  cherries  and  pineapple;  cut 
nuts.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Tyler. 

Railroad  Cake 

Sugar,  2  c. ;  flour,  4  c. ;  butter,  1  c. ;  eggs,  4;  sweet  milk,  1 
c. ;  baking  powder,  2  t.  sifted  with  flour;  2  t.  ground  cinnamon, 
1  t.  ground  cloves,  a  grated  nutmeg,  1  lb.  seeded  raisins,  \  lb. 
citron,  3  tb.  molasses.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  3  layers; 
stack  with  jelly  and  cover  with  icing. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Tift. 
Lady  Baltimore  Cake. 

Cream  1  c.  butter,  beat  into  it  2  c.  sugar;  sift  together  3^  c. 
sifted  flour  and  2  level  t.  baking  powder,  then  add  the  flour  to 
butter  and  sugar  alternately,  with  1  c.  milk  and  1 1.  rose  water. 
Beat  the  mixture  thoroughly,  and  lastly,  gently  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  6  eggs.     Bake  in  3  layer  cake  pans. 

Filling — Dissolve  3  c.  sugar  in  1  c.  boiling  water,  cook  until 
syrup  will  spin  thread,  pour  in  fine  stream  over  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs,  beat  until  stiff.  Add  to  this  1  c.  chopped  nuts 
and  five  figs  cut  into  thin  strips. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Whitehead. 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake. 

Butter  \  lb.-,  flour  1  lb.,  powdered  sugar  1  lb.,  sweet  milk  1 
c. ,  eggs  6,  baking  powder  1  t.  Flavor  with  bitter  almonds  and 
bake  in  layers. 

Filling — 1  c.  raisins,  walnuts  and  almonds  put  in  icing  and 
spread  between  cake. 

Icing — 1  pt.  pulverized  sugar,  \  pt.  water,  3  eggs  (whites 
only),  1  t.  cream  of  tartar.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Dehon. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rL.fAM  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
^'Plantene"  as  of  either.      Observe  directions  on  can. 


108  RECIPES. 


Cheese  Cake. 

Dough — J  c.  sugar,  1  t.  butter,  cream  together,  1  egg,  drop 
in  whole,  f  c.  flour,  scant,  1  t.  (level)  baking  powder,  milk 
enough  for  stiff  dough,  1  t.  vanilla. 

Custard — 1^  c.  fresh  curd  cheese  (mash  through  colander), 
5  eggs  (yolks  beaten  very  light  with  Dover  egg  beater),  3  tb. 
sugar  (full),  2  tb.  flour,  \  pt.  cream,  and  lastly,  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  fold  in.  Line  the  sides  of  pan  with  dough 
and  add  custard  without  baking  dough  first. 

Rosa  Brown. 
Banana  Cake. 

Cream  \  c.  butter  and  1  c.  sugar,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  \  c. 
milk,  If  c.  flour.  Bake  in  layers.  When  baked  spread  between 
layers  a  little  boiled  icing  and  sliced  bananas  To  be  eaten 
while  fresh.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 

Ginger  Pound  Cake. 

Butter  ilb.,  sugar  \  lb.,  cream  together  f  lb.  flour,  1  c.  sour 
milk,  4  eggs,  \  pt.  syrup  in  which  dissolve  1  t,  soda,  1  t.  ginger, 
\  nutmeg,  \  t.  cinnamon.  Add  eggs  to  beaten  butter  and 
sugar,  then  syrup,  spices,  milk  and  flour.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  L.  C.  P. 

Caramel  Cake. 

One  c.  butter,  2  c.  sugar,  3  c.  flour,  4  eggs,  2  t.  baking  powder, 
1  c.  milk,  1  t.  vanilla  flavoring.  For  filling,  3  c.  dark  brown 
sugar,  \  c.  butter,  §  c.  sweet  cream.  Boil  together  till  candied, 
not  hard.  Beat  till  cold  and  add  1  t.  vanilla  flavoring.  Spread 
between  the  cake  baked  in  layers,  spread  on  top  and  sides. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Lonsberg. 
Lemon  Cheese  Cake. 

Two  c.  sugar,  \  c.  butter,  f  c.  sweet  milk,  3  c.  flour,  3  t. 
baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs. 

Filling  for  Lemon  Cheese  Cake — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2 
lemons,  \  c.  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  c.  sugar.  Mix  all 
together  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Spread 
between  layers.  Mrs.  Tom  Oliver. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  Lnli  I  LIlL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  109 

Caramel  Cake. 

Make  a  batter  for  layer  cake;  bake  in  3  layers. 

Filling — 4  c.  light  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  shelled  pecans,  1  c. 
cream  or  sweet  milk.  Boil  cream,  sugar,  h  c.  butter  until 
nearly  candied.  Stir  in  nuts,  put  between  layers  and  on  top 
of  cake.     Good. 

Mrs.  P.  E.  Tucker. 

Almond  Cream  Cake. 

Ten  eggs  beaten  separately,  H  c.  pulverized  sugar,  1  c- 
cracker  dust,  1  c.  cup  chopped 'almonds.  Beat  yolks,  then  add 
sugar,  mix  almonds  and  cracker  dust,  add  whites,  then  beat  all 
together.  Add  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  t.  vanilla.  Bake  in  3  layers 
and  spread  whipped  cream  between  layers. 

Delicious  Plain  Cake  or  Croton   Sponge. 

Six  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour,  1  c.  butter,  1  c.  cold  water, 
2  even  t.  of  good  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Miller. 

Cherry   Cake. 

For  3  layers — 3  c.  Hour,  1  f  c.  sugar,  \  c.  butter,  \  c.  sweet 
milk,  If  level  t.  baking  powder;  flavor  to  taste,  whites  of  8  eggs. 

Filling — 3  c.  sugar,  1  c.  water,  1  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 
for  each  cup  of  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs,  juice  of  1  lemon,  any 
desired  flavoring,  f  lb.  crystalized  cherries,  \  lb.  pineapple,  1 
lb.  pecan  nuts,  slice  cherries  and  pineapple,  chop  nuts  and  put 
between  layers  in  icing. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  DeGraffenreid. 

White  Perfection  Cake. 

Whites  of  14  eggs,  1  lb.  sugar,  J  lb.  flour,  \  lb.  butter. 

To  Make — Use  only  fresh  eggs.  Whip  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  dry..  Add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  beat  until  like 
icing.     Sift  flour  several  times  and  set  in  warmer  of  stove  to  dry 


PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnli  I  LINE,  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


110  EECIPES. 

do  not  heat  above  a  little  warm.  Cream  butter  until  almost  like 
thick  cream,  then  add  gradually  the  flour,  until  all  is  in;  now 
add,  the  beaten  sugar  and  whites.  Put  in  steeple  pan  and  bake 
slowly.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

Marsh  Mallow  Cake. 

Whites  of  18  eggs,  2^  c.  pulverized  sugar,  1J  c.  flour,  2  t. 
cream  of  tartar,  1  t.  vanilla.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  sift  flour  3 
times  with  cream  of  tartar,  add  eggs  and  sugar,  then  vanilla, 
bake  in  three  layers,  with  paper  in  bottom  of  pans. 

Filling — 2  c.  sugar  boiled  with  1  c.  water  until  syrup  ropes, 
just  before  taking  from  fire  add  -J-  lb.  marsh  mallow  broken  in 
bits  to  melt,  pour  the  mixture  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.  Beat  until  cold  then  spread  very  thick  between  cakes 
and  over  top.  Mrs.  Georgia  Cherry. 

Delightful  Sponge  Cake. 

One  pt.  of  sugar,  1  pt.  of  flour,  -|  tumbler  of  warm  water,  7 
eggs,  1  t.  of  vanilla,  1  t.  of  lemon,  mix  water  and  sugar  and 
cook  until  clear.  While  hot  pour  over  the  well  beaten  yolks. 
Then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Lastly  add  the  flour. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Newsom. 

Marsh  Mallow    Cake. 

Custard  Part — One  c.  grated  chocolate  or  ^  cake,  J  c.  sweet 
milk,  1  c.  brown  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  t.  vanilla  extract.  Stir 
all  this  together  in  a  granite  saucepan,  cook  slowly  till  it 
thickens  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Cake  Part — One  c.  brown  sugar,  J  c.  sweet  milk,  -|  c.  butter, 

2  c.  flour,  2  eggs.  Cream  butter  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs 
together,  add  milk,  sifted  flour  and  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  beat  all  together  and  then  stir  in  the  custard  part.  Lastly 
add  1  t   of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.     This   makes 

3  nice  large  layers  and  a  cake  that  will  keep  fresh 

Filling  of  the  Marsh  Mallow  Cake — One  c.  ©f  brown  sugar, 
1  c.  of  white  sugar,  1  c.  water,  1  tb.  vinegar.      Boil  till  thick  as 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  L.ML-  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  Ill 

for  candy  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  J  lb.  of  marsh 
mallow.  Let  boil  up  once  and  place  on  layers  letting  each  one 
cool  before  putting  the  layers  together.  White  sugar  may  be 
used.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Jordan. 

Nye  Cake. 

Seven  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  4|  c.  sifted  flour,  3  c.  sugar,  1 
c.  butter,  1  c.  sweet  milk,  2  t.  baking  powder.  Good  for 
layer  cake.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Davis. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  f  c.  sugar,  1  scant  c.  flour,  f  t.  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together,  then  add  whites  beaten 
very  stiff,  add  flour,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  L.  J.  Michael. 

Virginia  Snow  Cake — Eggs  9,  whites  only,  1  c.  butter,  4  c. 
flour,  If  c.  sugar,  1  c.  milk,  1^  t.  baking  powder,   1  t.  vanilla. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Jackson. 

White  Sponge  Cake — Five  eggs,  whites,  1  c.  sugar,  1  c  flourr 
1  t.  baking  powder,  flavor  as  liked.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Alice  Mallory. 

"One,  Two,  Three,  Four"  for  Layer  Cakes. 

Butter  1  c. ,  sugar  2  c.  flour  3  c,  baking  powder  1  t.,  sweet 
milk  1  c. ,  eggs  4.      Use  any  filling  desired. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Morton. 

Croton  Sponge  Cake. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  lb.  of  flour,  1  lb.  sugar,  \  lb. 
butter,  2  even  t.  of  cream  tartar  in  flour,  1  t.  of  soda  in  a  c.  of 
sour  milk.     Beat  the  milk  and  soda  in  last  and  bake. 

Mrs.  W.  N.  Ticknor. 

White  Cake. 

Five  c.  sifted  flour  1  c.  butter,  1  c.  milk,  3  c.  sifted  pulver- 
ized sugar.     Whites  12  eggs. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnli  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


112  RECIPES. 


Gold  Cake. 


Make  as  above  receipt,  using  12  yolks.  Use  powders  or 
mixed  flour.  Mrs.  Wolfork. 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

Sugar  3  c.,  butter  1  c,  Hour  1  pt.,  Ht.  baking  powder,  1 
c.  milk,  whites  6  eggs,  20  drops  extract  bitter  almond;  cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  the  flour  sifted 
with  powder,  then  milk  and  extract  mix  throughly,  but  care- 
fully. Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins  in  quick  oven  15  min.  put 
together  with  white  icing  and  grated  cocoanut  mixed,  in  pro- 
portion of  2  c.  icing  to  1  c.  cocoanut. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Jarrard. 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

Butter  \  c,  pulverized  sugar  2  o,  beat  to  a  cream,  add  \  c. 
sweet  milk,  2^  c.  flour,  1\  t.  baking  powder  in  flour,  whites  of 
8  eggs.  Bake  in  jelly  tins,  put  together  with  following  icing: 
Sugar  3  c,  water  \  c,  boil  until  thick,  pour  slowly  over  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  beat  together  until  cool.  Heat 
before  putting  on  each  layer.  Sprinkle  eacb  layer  with  grated 
cocoanut.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Jacksox. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  12  eggs,  3  c.  sugar,  5  c.  of  Queen  of  Pantry  flour,  1  c. 
butter,  1  c.  water,  1  t.  baking  powder,  cream  butter  and  sugar 
well,  add  flour  and  water  alternately,  leave  out  1  c.  flour  to 
mix  with  powder  to  be  added  last  with  whites  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  L.  F.  Allen,  Oswichee,  Ala. 

Peach  Blossom  Cake. 

One  c.  pulverized  sugar.  \  c.  butter,  stirred  together  until 
thick  like  cream,  2  t.  baking  powder,  \  c.  sweet  milk.  Beat  the 
whites  of  3  eggs,  add  to  it  1  c.  flour,  mixed  with  the  baking 
powder,   stir  and  add  \  t,  cornstarch,  flavor  strong  with  extract 


PI  ANT  FN  F  ^Sa  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnl!  I  LML.  Dutter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.      Observe  directions  on  can. 


Holds    America's    Highest    Prize 


BAKER'S 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate 


Absolutely  pure,  with  a 
most  delicious  flavor,  made 
by  a  scientific  blending  of 
the  best  cocoa  beans  grown 
in  different  parts  of  the 
world.  It  is  backed  by  126 
years  of  successful  manu- 
facture and  by  46  highest 


awards     in     Europe     and 


America— an  unparalleled 
record  of  achievement. 


Registered  U.  S.  Tat.  Office 


Be  sure   that  you  get  the  genuine  with    the    trade-mark 
on  the  package. 

Directions  for  preparing  more  than  one  hundred  dainty 
dishes  in  our  Choice  Recipe  Book,  sent  free  on  request. 

Walter   Baker  (§L  Co.  Ltd. 

^Established  1780.      DORCHESTER.  MASS. 


114  RECIPES. 

of  peach.  Bake  in  2  square  tins  in  moderately  quick  oven  and 
when  done  sandwich  with  grated  cocoanut  and  pink  sugar. 
Frost  with  clear  icing  and  sprinkle  this  with  pulverized  pink 
sugar.  Alice  Mallory. 

Angel  Food  Cake. 

Whites  11  eggs,  18  tb.  sugar,  (level)  18  tb.  flour  (level)  1  tb. 
cream  of  tartar.  Mrs.  Spencer  Atkinson. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  3  c.  flour,  2  c.  sugar,  \  c.  plantene,  1  c. 
sweet  milk,  1|  t.  baking  powder,  crearn  plantene  and  begin  add- 
ing to  it  flour  and  milk,  whip  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  then  whip 
in  the  sugar,  and  now  add  this  to  the  first  mixture,  lastly  add 
baking  powder,  bake  in  loaf  or  layers  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Newsom. 

Filling  for  White  Cake. 

Cover  2  tb.  of  gelatine  with  enough  water  to  dissolve  it.  Boil 
2  c.  of  sugar  with  8  tb.  of  water  until  it  threads.  Beat  into 
gelatine  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  Jc.  of  each  of  these:  Nuts, 
citron,  crystallized  cherries  and  pineapple.  J.  B.  S. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Three  c.  sugar  well  moistened  with  milk  (or  water)  cook 
until  it  drops  separately  into  cold  water.  In  a  small  pan  grate 
\  block  of  bakers  chocolate,  put  over  the  kettle  to  dissolve;  beat 
the  white  of  1  egg  very  stiff.  When  it  is  done  beat  into  the  egg 
and  add  chocolate  and  a  little  vanilla,  beat  until  the  icing  is  stiff 
and  spread  quickly.  Rene  Wilson. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

One-fourth  c.  chocolate,  \  c.  sugar,  \  c.  sweet  milk,  1  tb. 
cornstarch,  1  t.  vanilla. 

Boiled    Icing. 

Two  c.  sugar,  \  c.  water,  boil  until  syrup  wraps  on  spoon, 
pour  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.     Beat  all  until  thick. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  115 

Transparent   Icing. 

Two  tb.  powdered  sugar  stirred  into  the  white  of  1  egg  with- 
out beating. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cake-Filling. 

Grate  rind  from  3  lemons  and  strain  juice,  add  butter  size  of 
walnut.  Two  c.  sugar,  a  little  flour,  boil  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Spread  between  layers.  Layers  as  used  for  cocoanut 
cake.  Mrs.  R.  A.  Malone. 

Caramel  Filling. 

One  lb  sugar,  1  c.  butter,  boil  sugar  until  nearly  candied, 
then  add  butter  and  boil  until  real  thick.  Pour  over  the  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs. 

Gelatine  Icing. 

One  c.  powdered  sugar,  1  tb.  gelatine,  1  tb.  cold  water,  soak 
gelatine  and  cold  water  1  hr.  add  1  tb.  hot  water.  Put  in  sugar 
and  beat  all  slowly,  add  vanilla  or  any  preferred  flavoring. 

J.  B.  S. 

Caramel  Filling. 

Butter  1  tb.,  sugar  2  c.  put  both  in  a  pan,  let  brown  stirring 
constantly.  Heat  1  c.  sugar  and  1  c.  of  sweet  milk,  add  to 
brown  sugar  and  cook  until  it  bubbles  up  like  candy  and  is 
thick.     Flavor  with  2  t.  vanilla. 

Caramel  Filling  No.  3. 

Sugar  3  c. ,  butter  1  c,  sweet  milk  1^  c,  boil  all  10  min. 
Beat  until  cold.  Mrs.  L.  F.  Allen, 

Oswichee,  Ala. 

Ice  Cream  Filling. 

Sugar  2  c. ,  yolks  4  eggs.  Boil  sugar  as  for  icing,  pour  while- 
hot  into  the  well  beaten  yolks.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 


116  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  117 


118  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  119 


]20  RECIPES. 


FROZEN    DESSERTS. 

"That  is  hot  ice  and  wondrous  strange  snow." 

Angel  Parfait. 

One  c.  sugar,  1  c.  water,  3  eggs  (whites),  1  t.  each  vanilla 
and  lemon,  1  pt.  cream,  1  tb.  sherry  wine.  Boil  sugar  and 
water  till  it  spins  a  thread,  then  pour  this  syrup  over  the  whites 
of  eggs,  well  beaten.  Beat  until  cold;  then  add  lemon,  vanilla 
and  sherry.  Fold  this  into  the  cream  that  has  been  well 
beaten.  Turn  mixture  into  moulds;  close  securely,  pack  in 
equal  parts  of  crushed  ice  and  salt  and  allow  to  remain  3  or  4 
hours.  Serve  in  glasses  with  star  of  whipped  cream  sprinkled 
with  either  pistachio  nuts  or  candied  violets  crushed  fine,  or 
make  a  lemon  ice,  color  a  light  green,  fill  mould  with  lemon  ice 
and  parfait  in  center. 

Nesselrode  Pudding. 

One  c.  French  chestnuts,  1  c.  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  \  pt. 
cream,  \  lb.  mixed  candied  fruits,  1  c.  almonds,  \  c.  pineapple 
(drained),  1^  tb.  of  maraschino  and  1  tb.  of  sherry,  or  all  of 
sherry,  \  t.  vanilla. 

First.  Remove  the  shell  from  chestnuts;  put  in  boiling  water 
for  3  min.,  then  into  cold  water  and  take  off  the  skins.  Boil 
the  blanched  chestnuts  until  tender.  Press  them  through  a 
seive — they  will  go  through  more  easily  while  hot. 

Second.     Blanch  the  almonds,  pound  and  chop  fine. 

Third.  Cut  candied  fruits  into  dice;  pour  over  them  the 
maraschino  and  let  stand  until  ready  to  use. 

Fourth.  Put  into  saucepan  on  the  fire  1  c.  of  sugar  and  £  c. 
boiling  water;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  let  it  cook 
slowly  for  5  min.  making  a  sugar  syrup. 

PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  12 1 

Fifth.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  until  light;  pour  into  them 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  the  sugar  syrup.  Place  them  on 
the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  enough  thickened 
to  coat  the  spoon  and  has  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Remove  it  from  the  fire,  turn  it  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  it  until  it 
is  cold.  When  it  is  cold  add  ^  pt.  of  cream,  the  mashed  chest- 
nuts, the  powdered  almonds  and  vanilla  flavoring,  and  freeze 
it.  When  it  is  frozen  remove  the  lid  of  the  freezer  and  add  the 
fruits,  replace  the  lid  and  turn  the  freezer  for  5  minutes.  Pack 
the  cream  or  put  it  into  a  fancy  mould  and  pack  in  ice  until 
ready  for  use.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  if  in  fancy  mould, 
or  if  in  the  freezer  fill  champage  glasses  with  the  pudding,  and 
put  whipped  sweetened  cream  on  top  with  one  marron  glace  on 
top  of  each  glass.  This  makes  one  quart  and  will  serve  eight 
or  ten  persons. 

Mrs.  Clark  Howell,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

Ice  Pudding. 

Make  a  rich  boiled  custard  of  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  pt.  cream, 
yolks  of  8  eggs;  sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  smooth,  add  a  little 
rose  water,  J  lb.  sweet  and  bitter  almonds.  Mix  J  lb.  seeded 
raisins,  the  same  of  currants,  §  as  much  citron  and  preserved 
orange  peel,  flour  these  well;  pour  the  custard  hot  over  the 
fruit,  mix  well.  When  cool  add  a  pint  of  whipped  and  drained 
sylabub.  Put  into  any  kind  of  pretty  mould  and  freeze.  Serve 
with  custard  or  sylabub  sauce.      Flavor  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Katharine  Robert. 

Caramel    Cream. 

One  c.  sugar,  1  qt.  thin  cream,  i  c.  sugar,  1  pt.  whipped 
cream.  Cook  1  c.  sugar  to  caramel  stage,  stirring  steadily  to 
prevent  burning.  Add  this  to  1  qt.  thin  cream  that  has  been 
scalded  and  in  which  the  J  c.  sugar  was  dissolved.  Cool.  Add 
1  tb.  vanilla  and  chill  in  freezer,  then  add  1  pt.  whipped  cream, 
then  freeze  thoroughly. 

PIAIMTFNF  *8  a  Pei"f e°t  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnl™  I  Lml  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


122  RECIPES. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Grate  £  lb.  chocolate  very  fine  and  mix  as  thoroughly   as 

possible  with  1  c.  sweet  milk.     Add  this  to  1  qt.  sweet  cream, 

rich  as  possible,  and  mix  thoroughly.     The  only  flavoring  need 

be  used  is  vanilla.     Add  1  c.  sugar  to  sweeten  and  freeze  after 

stirring  the  sugar  in  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 

Crushed  Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

Three  pts.  best  cream,  12  oz.  pulverized  white  sugar,  2  eggs. 
Mix  all  in  porcelain  vessel.  Place  on  fire,  stir  continuously  to 
boiling  point.  Remove  and  strain  through  hair  sieve.  Freeze. 
Take  1  qt.  ripe  strawberries,  select  and  put  in  china  bowl,  add 
6  oz.  pulverized  white  sugar,  crush  all  down  to  pulp,  add  this 
pulp  to  frozen  cream  with  2  tb.  vanilla.  Mix  in  well.  Give 
freezer  a  few  addition  turns  to  harden. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Jarrard. 
Mousse. 
One  pt.  cream,  3  tb.  sherry  wine.  J  c.  sugar,  |  t.  vanilla,  2 
eggs  (whites  only).     Whip  cream  until  stiff;  whip  whites  of 
eggs  well  and  add  to  cream.     Stir  in  sugar  and  vanilla.     Turn 
into  mould.     Pack  in  ice  and  salt  3  or  4  hours. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Crossland. 

Marsh  Mallow  Cream. 

One-half  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  £  pt.  water,  2  qt.  milk,  1 
pt.  cream,  2  c.  sugar,  2  tb.  vanilla,  whites  of  3  eggs  (beaten 
light)  added  after  cream  is  nearly  frozen. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Tucker. 

Apricot  Ice  Cream. 

One  can  apricots,  1  slice  crystalized  pineapple,  dime's  worth 
crystalized  cherries,  1  qt.  cream,  2  qts.  milk,  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  2  t.  cornstarch.  Mix  eggs,  sugar  and  cornstarch,  pour 
boiling  milk  over  it.  Set  back  on  fire  and  stir  until  thickens. 
Whip  cream  before  adding  it.  Freeze  and  pack;  let  stand  for 
several  hours. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
ILMm  I  L.ML.  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
^'Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES  123 

Raspberry    Bumm. 

Make  ^  gal.  pure  cream  by  any  receipt  one  likes  and  freeze. 
Then  make  and  freeze  a  raspberry  ice  by  following  receipt.  Rub 
a  can  of  red  raspberries  through  a  sieve.  Boil  1  qt.  sugar  and  1 
qt.  water  to  a  thick  syrup.  Put  this  syrup  when  cool  in  freezer 
with  raspberry  juice  as  well  as  juice  of  3  lemons  and  1^  qts.  of 
water  and  freeze.  Have  ice  cream  mould  ready  to  pack  in  alter- 
nate layers  (1^  inches  thick)  the  raspberry  ice,  then  pure 
cream,  and  soon  until  mould  is  full.  Close  securely  the  mould 
und  pack  in  ice  and  salt  about  3  hours.     Slice  across  to  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 
Cocoa   Frappe. 
Mix  |-  lb.  of  cocoa,  3  c.  sugar,  cook  with  2  c.  boiling  water 
until  smooth,   add  3^  qts.  milk,  scalded;  with  cinnamon  bark; 
cook  for  10  min.     Beat  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  mixed  with  1 
c.  sugar  and  1  pt.  whipped  cream.     Cool.     Flavor  with  vanilla 
and  freeze.     Serve  in  cups  garnished  with  whipped  cream. 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 
One  gal.  sweet  milk,  2  lbs.  sugar,   16  eggs;  boil  sugar  and 
milk  together,  beat  eggs  lightly  and  add  to  milk  while  boiling. 
When  cool  add  1  tb.  vanilla  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 
Bisque  Ice  Creem. 
Boil  2  pts.  sweet  milk,  thicken  with  2  eggs  and  1  c.  sugar,   1 
large  tb.  flour.     Whip  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together,  then  stir 
in   boiling   milk.      Strain  and   add  1  pt.  thick  cream  and  6 
macaroons,  a  few  drops  of  bitter  almond. 

Mrs.  Jno.  D.  Pope. 
Bisque  Ice  Cream. 

Dry  6  ozs.  macaroons  in  the  oven.  When  cool  roll  fine  and 
beat  in  1  qt.  cream.  Whip  until  it  begins  to  froth,  then  add 
little  at  a  time,  the  strained  juice  of  2  lemons  and  2  wine  glasses 
full  of  sherry  wine;  sugar  to  taste  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  B. 


PI  ANTFNF  *8  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  l_r\M  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
ilPlantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


124  RECIPES. 


Orange  Sherbert. 

One  tb.  gelatine  dissolved  in  ^  c.  water,  1  c.  sugar,  1^  c.  of 
boiling  water,  juice  of  4  lemons,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  the 
whites  of  2  eggs.     Freeze.  Mrs.  A.  T. 

Ginger  Sherbert. 

Make  a  lemon  water  ice  and  freeze.  Cut  4  ozs.  of  preserved 
ginger  into  very  small  pieces,  adding  to  it  2  tbs.  of  the  ginger 
syrup.     Stir  into  the  frozen  ice  and  pack  for  several  hours. 

Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Pineapple  Sherbert. 

One  can  pineapple,  1  pt.  boiling  water  and  4  lemons.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  pineapple  (grated),  add  juice  of  lemons, 
strain  and  make  real  sweet.  When  nearly  frozen  add  milk  and 
cream  (which  has  been  made  real  sweet).  Enoiigh  to  make  1 
gallon.     Freeze  and  pack  to  ripen. 

Lemon  Sherbert. 

Six  lemons,  3  c.  sugar,  1  qt.  boiling  water.  Reserve  1  c. 
water  and  soak  1  tb.  gelatine  in  it.     Freeze. 

Orange  Souffle. 

Cover  |-  a  box  of  gelatine  with  h  c.  of  cold  water  and  soak  \ 
hr. ,  add  1  c.  of  boiling  water  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Mix  1  pt.  orange  juice  with  1  lb.  sugar,  freeze. 
When  ready  to  remove  the  beater  stir  in  1  qt.  of  cream, 
whipped.  Pack  in  plenty  of  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  for  2 
hours.  Mrs.  A.  Taylor. 

Iced  Cocoa. 

To  every  pint  cocoa  made  in  the  usual  way  add  ^  c.  of 
whipped  cream,  beat  it  into  the  cocoa;  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
pack  in  ice  and  salt.  Served  in  glasses  partly  filled  with 
chipped  ice.  Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Orange    Ice. 
One  doz.  oranges,  3  lemons,  2  c.  sugar;  strain,  then  freeze. 

Mrs.  N.  L.  Ragan. 

P!  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  l_r\li  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  125 


Five  Three's. 

Three  bananas  mashed  fine,  3  oranges,  3  lemons,  3  c.  sugar, 
3  pts.  water.     Mix  well  and  freeze. 

Orange    Ice. 

One  qt.  of  orange  juice  or  juice  from  1  doz.  large  oranges,  1 
qt.  of  water,  1  qt.  of  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Mix  sugar  and 
water  together,  let  boil  until  thick,  then  cool.  Mix  with  orange 
and  lemon  juice,  then  freeze. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Armstrong. 

Orange    Ice. 

One  qt.  cream,  1  pt.  milk,  1  tumbler  sherry  wine,  1  doz. 
oranges,  2  c.  sugar.  Put  sugar  and  juice  in  freezer,  chill 
thoroughly,  then  add  cream  beaten  light,  and  add  lastly,  the 
wine,  then  freeze  and  pack  to  ripen.      Delicious. 

Maple    Bisque. 

The  yolks  of  4  eggs  well  beaten,  add  to  this  1  large  cup  of 
maple  syrup,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  barely  letting  it  come  to 
a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and  strain.  Set 
aside  to  cool.  When  perfectly  cool  beat  until  light.  Whip 
whites  of  the  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  1  pt.  of  thick  cream 
until  stiff;  add  whites  to  cream,  then  pour  in  the  cooked  syrup. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  mould.  Pack  with  salt  and  ice 
and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours.  When  ready  to  remove  dip  in  cold 
water  and  then  in  hot  water  for  a  few  seconds  so  it  will  turn 
but  easily. 

Chocolate  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. 

Two  squares  grated  chocolate,  2  c.  sugar,  2  tb.  sugar  (level), 
^  c.  water,  cinnamon  bark  ^  in.  long.  Stir  on  fire  until  dis- 
solved.    Cook  thick  and  pour  over  each  saucer  of  ice  cream. 


126  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  127 


128  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  129 


130  RECIPES. 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  ETC. 

"Give  no  more  to  every  guest 
Than  he's  able  to  digest; 
Give  him  always  of  the  prime, 
And  but  little  at  a  time." 

— Sivift. 

The  richest  juices  of  any  fruit  lie  immediately  under  the 
skin  and  around  the  core.  Here,  also  is  the  gelatinous 
principle  without  which  the  fruit  cannot  jelly.  Therefore 
do  not  make  the  mistake  of  peeling  and  coring  any  fruit 
for  jelly. 

Cantaloupe   Preserves. 

Take  a  melon  half  ripe,  cut  in  pieces  of  equal  size,  peel  off  the 
rind  and  take  out  the  seed.  Soak  in  lime  water  for  6  or  8  hrs. 
(dissolving  2  handfuls  of  lime  in  3  gals,  of  water).  Change 
the  pieces  from  top  to  bottom  while  soaking.  Then  soak  in 
clear  water,  changing  twice.  Then  scald  in  weak  alum  water, 
let  them  remain  in  until  cold  put  again  in  cold  water. 

Make  a  rich  syrup,  using  \\  lbs.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit.  Strain 
the  boiling  syrup  over  the  fruit  and  let  stand  until  the  next 
morning,  turning  a  large  dinner  plate  over  to  hold  the  fruit  in 
the  syrup.  Next  day  boil  slowly  until  tender  and  clear. 
Flavor  as  you  like  with  lemon,  vanilla  or  ginger. 

Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Watermelon   Rind    Preserves. 

Boil  5  lbs.  melon  (cut  in  pretty  shape)  for  30  or  40  minutes 
in  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  piece  of  alum  about  walnut 
size  (crushed).  Cover  with  grape  leaves  while  cooking  them. 
Then  drain  and  soak  in  fresh  water  all  night.     In  the  morning 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnli  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  131 


make  a  syrup  of  6  lbs.  sugar  and  water  sufficient  to  cook  the 
fruit  well  done  and  transparent.  If  the  flavor  of  ginger  is  liked 
make  a  strong  tea  and  add  to  syrup.  Cinnamon  and  cloves  are 
good  also  for  flavoring. 

Mrs.  James  W.  Armstrong. 

Pineapple    Preserves. 

Pare  the  fruit,  and  with  sharp  pointed  knife  extract  the  eyes. 
With  a  silver  fork  tear  fruit  off  the  core  in  pieces  of  moderate 
size.  Weigh  fruit  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  1  lb.  of 
sugar.  Place  in  saucepan  in  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar 
till  all  is  used;  allow  a  small  cup  of  water  to  each  pound  of 
sugar.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point.  When  the  fruit  has  been 
scalded  3  minutes  skim,  then  dip  out  the  fruit  putting  it  into 
platters,  returning  to  kettle  all  syrup  that  drains  from  fruit. 
Boil  syrup  h  hr.,  skimming  frequently.  Then  add  the  pine- 
apple and  boil  25  min.,  when  it  should  be  done.  If  the  syrup 
is  not  as  thick  as  desired  skim  out  fruit  once  more,  placing  it 
on  platters.  Then  boil  syrup  to  desired  thickness,  cooling  a 
little  in  saucer  to  test  its  thickness.  Return  fruit  for  final 
scalding  and  seal  in  jars. 

Mrs.  Jordan. 

Fig  Preserves. 

Peel  the  figs  as  thin  as  possible.  Have  a  cup  of  lime  dis- 
solved in  a  dish  pan  of  water  and  drop  the  figs  in  as  you  peel 
them.  Let  them  stand  in  the  lime  water  about  2  hours, 
then  wash  them  off,  using  a  quantity  of  fresh  water.  One 
pound  of  fruit  to  f  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  enough  water  to 
dissolve  the  sugar,  let  the  sugar  come  to  a  boil  before  putting 
in  the  fruit.  Let  them  boil  slowly  till  they  become  transparent. 
About  10  minutes  before  taking  them  up  drop  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  in  the  preserves,  it  gives  a  flavor:  don't  use  a  whole 
lemon,  as  it  does  not  require  so  much. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Hutchins. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  Lnl  1  I  LllL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


132  RECIPES. 

Strawberry  Preserves. 

One  lb.  berries,  f  lb.  sugar,  1  tb.  water.  Mix  berries  with 
sugar,  pour  in  the  water.  Let  stand  just  a  little  while,  so  that 
some  juice  will  collect  in  the  bottom.  Place  over  a  slow  fire. 
You  might  stir  from  the  bottom  once  or  twice.  Boil  hard  15 
minutes.  Do  not  make  more  than  2  quarts  at  a  time,  else  they 
will  lose  their  color.  Scald  jars  and  rubbers  thoroughly  and 
have  ready  before  cooking  berries.     Put  up  air  tight. 

Edna  Whittlesey. 
Tutti  Fruiti. 
In  a  gallon  stone  jar  pour  1  pt.  alcohol,  1  c.  sugar,  1  c. 
chopped  fruits,  always  adding  equal  quantities  of  fruit  and 
sugar;  any  kind  of  fruit  is  good  except  bananas,  which  mash 
too  badly.  Keep  jar  covered  and  stir  from  bottom  whenever 
fruit  is  added.  Do  not  add  more  alcohol.  When  jar  is  full 
put  brandied  paper  over  top  and  tie  tightly. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Davis. 
Spiced    Pears  or  Apples. 
Quarter  fruit,   then  put  in   vessel,    cover   with    white   wine 
vinegar,  add  sugar  and  spice  to  taste.     Boil  until  tender. 

Mrs,  R.  A.  Malone. 

May  Haw  Jelly. 

Fill  your  kettle  f  full  of  haws,  then  add  water  to  the  top. 
Cook  and  mash  until  well  done  (always  keeping  hot  water  to 
to  add  as  it  boils  away).  Then  strain  3  times  through  cheese 
cloth  bags.  To  6  tumblers  of  juice  add  4  tumblers  of  sugar  and 
boil  until  it  falls  in  drops  of  jelly  from  the  spoon. 

Mrs.  James  W.  Armstrong. 
Blackberry  Jelly. 

To  a  peck  of  ripe  blackberries  add  2  quarts  of  half  ripe 
berries;  cover  with  water  and  boil  briskly  until  juice  is  extracted. 
Strain.  To  1  c.  sugar  add  2  c.  juice.  Cook  over  a  quick  fire, 
skimming  frequently.  When  pouring  up  jelly  set  glasses  in  a 
shallow  pan  of  hot  water.  Mrs.  S.  J.  Jones. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


MEMORANDA.  133 


134  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  136 


136  MEMORANDA. 


RECIPES.  137 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 

"I'll  warrant  there's  vinegar  and  pepper  in  it." 
Bell  Pepper   Pickles. 

One  peck  pepper  (with  stems),  3  medium  size  hard  cabbage, 
h  peck  onions.  Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  of  peppers  and  remove 
the  seed,  then  place  them  in  brine  over  night  (4  c.  salt  to  |- gal. 
water).  Chop  onions  and  cabbage  fine  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
between  each  layer  of  vegetables.  Let  stand  overnight.  In  the 
early  morning  pour  off  brine  from  peppers  and  replace  with 
clear  water.  Squeeze  the  brine  from  cabbage  and  onions  and 
add  1  pt.  green  and  red  chopped  peppers,  5  cents  worth  of 
tumeric,  5  cents  worth  of  celery  seed,  10  cents  worth  of  white 
mustard  seed,  1  box  Thurber's  cinnamon,  2  tb.  black  pepper, 
3  tb.  mustard,  4  large  tumblers  of  sugar,  1  qt.  vinegar,  salt  to 
taste  (if  needed).  Mix  this  thoroughly  and  let  it  stand  awhile. 
In  the  meantime  wipe  the  peppers  dry  and  then  fill  with  the 
mixture.  Sew  the  opening  together.  Place  in  jar  and  pour 
over  them  ^  gal.  vinegar  to  which  has  been  added  3  tumblers  of 
sugar  and  brought  to  a  boil.  For  4  mornings  pour  off  and  reheat 
the  vinegar,  scalding  the  peppers.  (Ready  for  use)  .  Be  sure 
and  have  them  covered  with  the  vinegar. 

We  use  stone  snuff  jars.  Adelaide  Hall. 

Pickled  Mangoes. 

Cut  a  round  piece  from  the  stem  end  of  each  of  the  green 
muskmelons  to  be  pickled.  If  preferred,  a  slice  may  be  cut 
from  the  side.  Remove  the  seeds  and  fasten  the  piece  taken 
out  back  in  place.  Let  the  prepared  melons  stand  over  night 
in  a  strong  brine — a  cup  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Chop  fine 
green  tomatoes,  cabbage,  small  white  onions,  small  cucumbers 
and  green  peppers.     Use  such  number  and  proportion  of  these 

PI  ANTFNF  ^sa  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
ILnli  I  LnL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


138  RECIPES. 


as  is  desired.  Let  these  as  also  nasturtium  seeds  stand  over 
night  in  salted  water.  Drain  and  cover  with  weak  vinegar  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Heat  the  tomatoes  in  the  vinegar  to  the 
boiling  point,  then  drain  and  press  each  of  the  vegetables  until 
they  are  quite  dry.  Put  into  each  melon  2  or  3  cloves,  3  or  4 
pieces  of  cinnamon  and  i  a  t.  of  grated  horseradish,  then  fill 
with  the  prepared  vegetables  and  nasturtium  seed.  Sew  into 
each  melon  the  piece  that  was  cut  out  and  when  all  are  ready, 
let  stand  again  over  night  covered  with  cider  vinegar.  In  the 
morning  cook  the  mangoes  -|  hr.  in  the  vinegar  in  which 
they  have  been  standing,  then  remove  to  a  jar  and  cover  with 
strong  cider  vinegar.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  vinegar. 
To  each  gallon  add  1  pint  of  sugar  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper 
and  pour  this  scalding  hot  over  the  mangoes.  Let  stand  over 
night,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar  and  pour  scalding  hot  a 
second  time  over  the  mangoes.  Repeat  this  process  3  mornings, 
when  pickles  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Boston  Cooking  School. 

Corn  Salad    Pickle. 

(five  quarts). 
Eighteen  ears  corn  (just  as  you  like  for  table  use),  %  lb. 
Coleman's  mustard,  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  4  large  onions,  2  green 
peppers,  2  red  peppers,  \  c.  salt,  1  large  cabbage,  2  qts.  best 
vinegar,  2  bunches  celery.  Cut  off  corn,  scrape;  chop  all  vege- 
tables and  mix  together.  Cook  until  peppers  turn  brown. 
Color  with  1  tb.  tumeric.     Put  in  jars  hot  and  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

Universal  Pickle. 

One  gal.  vinegar,  1  pt.  salt,  3  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  small  box 
mustard,  1  pt.  horseradish  chopped  fine,  1  qt.  onions  chopped 
fine,  \  lb.  of  allspice,  \  lb.  of  ground  pepper,  \  lb.  whole 
pepper,  2  oz.  of  mace,  2  oz.  of  cloves,  2  oz.  of  celery  seed,  2  oz. 
tumeric.  Let  this  mixture  stand  3  days.  Then  drop  into  it 
any  fresh  fruits  or  vegetables.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Newsom. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnli  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
■"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


S.  J.  Jones,  S.  W.  Smith,  W.  E.  Smith, 

President.  V.  Pres.  &  G.  Mgr.  Mgr.  Real  Estate  Dept. 

The  Jones  &  Smith 

Title  Guaranty  and  Loan  Co* 

Office:   Woolfolk  Building, 

ALBANY,  GEORGIA. 


Examines  and  Guarantees  Titles  to  Real  Estate  Anywhere  in 
Southwest  Georgia. 

Negotiates  Loans  on  Farm  Lands  in  Dougherty,  Calhoun,  Terrell,  Lee, 

Baker,  Worth  and  Mitchell  Counties,  and  on  Land 

in  the  City  of  Albany. 

Buys  and  Sells  Real  Estate  and  Purchase  Money  Notes. 

REFERENCES: 

The  British  and  American  Mortgage  Co.,  New  York. 

Scottish  American  Mortgage  Co.,  Edinburgh,  Scotland- 
Georgia  Loan  and  Trust  Co.,  Macon,  Ga.. 

Bradstreet's    and    Dun's    Agency. 

The  Most  Complete  Home -Furnishing  Establishment  in 
Southwest  Georgia. 


Tour  every  want  Supplied  from 
Kitchen  to  Parlor,  from  Cellar  to 
Garret. 

Favor  us  with  your  business. 

We  promise  VALUE  for  your 
Money. 


The  Steele  Furniture  and  Hardware  Store, 


140  RECIPES. 

Picklette. 

Four  large,  crisp  cabbage  chopped  fine,  1  qt.  onions  chopped 
fine,  2  qts.  vinegar— or  to  cover  cabbage,  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  2 
tbs.  ground  mustard,  2  tbs.  black  pepper,  2  tbs.  cinnamon,  2 
tbs.  tumeric,  2  lbs.  celery  seed,  1  tb.  allspice,  1  tb.  mace,  1  tb. 
pulverized  alum,  10  cents  worth  of  mustard  seed.  Pack  the 
cabbage  and  onions  in  alternate  layers  with  a  little  salt  between. 
Let  them  stand  until  next  day.  Then  scald  the  vinegar,  sugar 
and  spices  together  and  pour  over  cabbage  and  onions  three 
mornings.     The  fourth  morning,  boil  all  together  10  minutes. 

Miss  Annie  Parker. 
Cabbage   Pickle. 

One  gal.  chopped  cabbage,  1  pt.  chopped  onions,  1J  pts. 
vinegar,  2  tbs.  mustard,  2  oz.  mustard  seed,  2  oz.  celery  seed, 
2  ts.  allspice  (powdered),  1  oz.  black  pepper,  1  oz.  mace,  1  oz. 
cloves,  1^  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  tb.  salt.  Boil  all  together  until 
the  cabbage  is  soft  and  tender. 

Mary  Hyman  Mallett. 

Mustard  Chow  Chow  Pickles. 

One  qt.  small  cucumbers,  1  qt.  largest  sliced  cucumbers,  1  qt. 
sliced  green  tomatoes,  1  qt.  small  button  onions,  1  large  cauli- 
flower and  4  green  peppers  cut  fine.  Make  a  brine  of  4  qts.  of 
water  and  1  pt.  salt;  pour  it  over  the  mixture  and  let  stand  for 
24  hours.  Heat  it  enough  to  scald  it  and  turn  into  a  colander 
to  drain.  Mix  1  c.  of  flour,  6  tbs.  of  ground  mustard  and  1  tb. 
tumeric  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  1  c.  sugar  and  more  vinegar,  enough  to  make  2  qts  in  all. 
Boil  this  mixture  until  it  thickens  and  is  smooth,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Add  the  vegetables  and  cook  until  well  cooked 
through,  but  not  soft.  Mrs.  R.  M.  C. 

Cucumber  Oil  Pickles. 

Fifty  cucumbers  4  in.  long,  2  red  or  2  green  peppers,  1  oz. 
celery  seed,  ^  c.  Colman's  mustard,  ^  of  35  cent  bottle  olive  oil. 
Wash  cucumbers,  have  a  gallon  crock,  cut  up  cucumbers  cross- 
Pi  ANTFNF"  *s  a  Per^ec^  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
r  Lnli  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  141 

wise  about  2  in.  deep  in  crock,  then  onions  cut  same  way  2  in. 
deep,  then  cucumbers  and  so  on  till  all  are  in.  Salt  as  if  for 
table,  then  add  |  c.  Colman's  mustard  mixed  to  smooth,  thin 
paste,  add  tumeric  enough  to  color,  add  vinegar  enough  to  cover, 
then  \  bottle  (35)  olive  oil.  Seal  crock  and  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  about  three  weeks.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Walters. 

Stuffed    Cucumbers. 

Make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg  and  pour  boiling 
on  the  cucumbers.  Let  them  stand  5  days.  Then  cut  cucum- 
bers open  on  one  side,  scrape  out  the  seed  and  wash  cucumbers 
well.  For  filling,  cut  up  1  large  cabbage,  six  onions,  2  large 
green  peppers,  \  lb.  brown  sugar,  1  tb.  each  ground  allspice, 
celery  seed  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  fill  1  dozen  large  cucumbers, 
tying  them  securely.  Have  vinegar  enough  to  cover  well.  Put 
on  stove  and  add  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon,  2  t. 
each  of  whole  cloves  and  allspice.  Lay  cucumbers  in  the 
kettle,  cover  well  with  grape  leaves  and  scald  for  1  hour,  but 
do  not  boil.  Put  them  in  stone  jars  and  they  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  three  weeks.  Helen  Clare  Davis. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  1  bushel  of  firm,  ripe  tomatoes,  wipe  them  nicely  with 
a  damp  cloth,  cut  out  the  cores,  put  them  in  a  porcelain  lined 
kettle,  place  them  over  the  fire,  pour  over  them  3  pts.  water, 
throw  in  2  handfuls  of  peach  leaves  with  10  or  12  onions  cut 
fine.  Boil  until  tomatoes  are  done,  which  will  take  about  2 
hours.  Then  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Pour  the  liquid 
back  into  the  kettle  and  add  \  gal.  good  vinegar,  have  ready  2  oz. 
ground  spice,  2  oz.  ground  black  pepper,  2  oz.  mustard  (either 
ground  or  in  seed,  as  preferred),  1  oz.  ground  cloves,  2  nut- 
megs, grated,  2  lbs.  light  brown  sugar,  1  pt.  salt.  Mix  these 
ingredients  well  together  before  putting  into  boiler;  boil  2  hours, 
stirring  constantly,  to    keep  from    burning.     If  you   like   the 

PI  AISITFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  SUDSfrtute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnH  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


142  RECIPES. 


catsup  hot  add  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  When  cool  fill  bottles, 
cork  and  seal  with  wax  to  exclude  all  air.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry 
place.     This  receipt  is  preferred  to  all  others. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Jackson,  Albany,  Ga. 

Mr.  John  Mock's  Tomato  Catsup. 

Wash  and  mash  tomatoes,  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle 
and  boil  1  hour.  Strain  the  mass  through  a  sieve,  then  to  4 
qts.  of  the  liquid  add  1  qt.  vinegar,  2  tbs.  of  black  pepper,  1 
tb.  of  whole  allspice,  1  t.  of  cloves,.  1  t.  of  ground  cinnamon,  1 
t.  of  mace,  2  lemons,  sliced,  2  large  onions,  cut  fine,  6  pods 
green  pepper,  unbroken.  Boil  down  to  one-half,  strain  off  the 
spice.  Bottle  when  cool  and  use  new  corks.  To  the  above  may 
be  added  1  c.  of  brown  sugar. 

Tomato  Soy    Relish. 

One  3  lb.  can  of  tomatoes,  1  c.  sugar,  6  medium  sized  onions, 
■|  t.  salt,  J  t.  cloves,  cinnamon  and  spice,  ground,  J  t.  black 
pepper  and  red  pepper.  Cover  and  stew,  mashing  with  a  potato 
masher  until  like  a  fine  jam.      If  sealed  well  will  keep  all  winter. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Wilson. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced,  12  large  onions,  sliced. 
Sprinkle  the  whole  with  salt  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Then 
strain  off  water  and  add  4  large  green  peppers,  ^  lb.  mustard 
seed,  ij  oz.  cloves,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  1  oz.  allspice,  2  lbs.  sugar;, 
cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  until  clear.  When  cold  add  a 
small  box  of  mustard  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Y.  C.  Rust. 

Peach  Pickle. 

One  qt.  vinegar,  4  lbs.  sugar,  spice  to  taste.  Let  vinegar  and 
sugar  boil  about  1  min.,  then  put  in  as  many  peaches  as  the 
vinegar  will  cover.  Let  fruit  come  to  a  boil  and  then  put  in 
jars.     Pour  vinegar  over  them  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Cliff  Clay. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  !_r\M  I  LI1L  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  143 


Sweet  Pickled  Peaches. 

To  7  lbs.  peaches  allow  3f  lbs.  sugar,  1  qt.  vinegar,  2  oz. 
cloves;  2  oz.  stick  cinnamon.  Pare  the  peaches  and  stick  1  or 
2  cloves  into  each.  Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  with  several 
sticks  of  cinnamon  for  5  min.,  then  put  in  the  peaches;  when 
cooked  till  thoroughly  done,  take  them  out.  Boil  the  syrup, 
reducing  it  nearly  h  and  pour  it  over  the  peaches. 

Mrs.  R.  Patterson. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. 

Chop  fine  8  lbs.  green  tomatoes,  add  4  lbs.  brown  sugar.  Boil 
till  done.  Add  1  qt.  vinegar,  1  t.  each  mace,  cinnamon  and 
cloves  and  boil  15  min.      Let  cool  and  seal  in  jars. 

Plum  Sauce. 

Five  lbs.  plums,  4  lbs.  sugar,  1^  pts.  vinegar,  flavor  with  all 
kinds  of  spices,  tie  spices  in  white  lawn  bags  and  boil  in  the 
plums,  which  flavor  them  well  and  prevents  dregs.  Cook  until 
tender  and  syrup  thickens.  Cook  rapidly  1  hour  for  sauce,  and 
moderately  slow  2  hours  for  preserves. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Frank. 

Artichoke  Pickles. 

Do  not  boil  or  cook  artichokes.  Take  1  pk.  of  artichokes 
and  clean  in  sand.  Put  in  salt  and  water  for  12  hours,  then 
wash  in  cold  water,  put  in  jar  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar. 
Heat  the  vinegar  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  pickles  every  day  for 
a  week.  Miss  Hattie  Hall. 

Sweet  Pickle   Peaches. 

One  qt.  vinegar,  4  lbs.  sugar,  1  t.  each  of  mace,  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice.  Let  sugar  and  vinegar  boil  about  1  min., 
drop  in  spices,  then  put  in  as  many  peeled  peaches  as  vinegar 
will  cover;  let  all  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  jars,  covering  well 
with  vinegar  and  seal  promptly.  These  peaches  will  not  turn 
dark  and  will  keep  indefinitely  if  carefully  put  up. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Clay,  Americus,  Ga. 

PI  A  l\l T  F"  i\J  F"  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  Lnll  I  LI"L  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


144  RECIPES. 


Spiced  Vinegar  for  Pickles. 

One  gal.  of  apple  vinegar,  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  2  tb.  salt,  1  oz. 
tumeric,  1  box  dry  mustard,  2  oz.  celery  seed,  1  oz.  cinnamon 
sticks,  \  oz.  mace,  1  tea  cup  olive  oil.  Boil  and  pour  over 
pickles.  This  is  for  cabbage  and  cucumbers,  and  can  be  used 
several  times  by  adding  a  little  more  vinegar  when  needed. 

Miss  Hattie  Hall. 


MEMORANDA.  145 


146  MEMORANDA. 


MEMORANDA.  147 


148  RECIPES. 


BEVERAGES. 

"Come  gentlemen,  I  hope  we  shall  drink  down  all  unkindness." 

Hints. 

One  t.  vanilla  placed  in  the  chocolate  pot  before  pouring  in 
the  chocolate  gives  a  good  flavor. 

Some  like  cinnamon  as  flavoring  to  chocolate  tea. 

Vienna  Chocolate. 

Four  squares  Baker's  chocolate  (dissolve  chocolate  in  small 
quantity  of  water),  \  gal.  milk,  3  eggs  (yolks),  1  c.  sugar. 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  melted  chocolate.  Pour  to 
these  the  milk  that  has  been  brought  to  boiling  point.  Return 
.to  fire,  boiling  a  few  minutes,  but  stir  constantly.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Billups  Phinizy. 

Fruit  Nectar. 

One  can  grated  pineapple,  4  c.  sugar,  strain  3  c.  boiling 
water,  5  lemons,  b'  oranges,  1  pt.  strawberry  or  grape  juice,  1 
qt.  tea  steeped  5  min.  and  strained  through  cloth,  6  qts.  water. 
Cut  in  slices  1  lemon  and  1  orange,  1  pt.  strawberries  not 
mashed.  When  ready  to  serve  put  in  the  bowl  1  square  piece 
of  ice,  pour  over  the  nectar,  stir  until  perfectly  cold.  Cherries 
are  also  nice.  Mrs.  Anna  Taylor. 

Roman  Punch. 

One  qt.  weak  tea,  1  pt.  sugar  or  more  to  taste,  1  pt.  claret,  2 
tb.  rum,  1  lb.  glace  cherries,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  3  lemons. 
Add  the  rum  and  cherries  when  punch  is  about  half  frozen. 
Serve  in  glasses  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 


PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LnIN  I  LllL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  149 

Blackberry  Nectar. 

To  12  lbs.  berries  add  1  qt.  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  24 
hours.     Then  strain  and  to  1  qt.   of  juice  add  1  lb.  of  sugar, 
dissolve  thoroughly,  then  strain  again.     After  straining  add  2 
oz.   of  tartaric  acid.      Bottle  and  seal .     Put  2  t.  of  nectar  to  a 
glass  of  water,  adding  sugar  and  ice  to  taste. 
Blackberry  Acid. 
Cover  6  qts.  fruit  in  a  jar  with  2  qts.   water  in  which  5 J  oz. 
of  tartaric  acid  has  been  dissolved,  let  stand  48  hours,   then 
strain,  but  do  not  squeeze  the  fruit.     To  1  qt.  of  juice  add  1  pt. 
of  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved,  then  bottle,  but  do  not  put  the 
corks  in  too  tight  for  a  few  clays.      Do  not  get  the  fruit  too  ripe, 
and  be  careful  not  to  bruise.  J.  B.  S. 

Hot   Punch. 
One  qt.  claret  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  c.  hot  water,  sugar  to 
taste,  \  t.  each  of  cloves,  spice  and  1  stick  cinnamon.     Put  this 
to  boil,  let  begin  to  thicken  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  John  D.  Pope. 
UnfermentedL  Grape   Juice. 
Wash  and  pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems;  put  them  in  a 
porcelain  kettle;  crush  them.     Set  over  the  fire  and  bring  to  a 
scald — never  allow  them  to  boil.     Have  ready  hanging  a  cloth 
sack  (a  clean  flour  sack  is  good),  clip  the  grapes  with  an  earthen 
cup  into  the  bag;  let  them  drip  into  a  crock  or  earthen  dish  all 
night.     In  the  morning  put  the  juice  over  the  fire  and  again 
bring  it  to  a  scald.      Have  ready  bottles  or  fruit  cans,  rims  and 
glass  tops  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.     Wring  out  a  good  size  cloth 
in  cold  water,  set  the  can  on  it,  put  in  a  silver  knife  to  prevent 
breaking.     Have  the  juice  scalding  and  the  can  hot,  fill  to  the 
brim.     Seal  at  once.     Concord  grapes  are  best. 
Sparkling  Lemonade. 
Roll  and  slice  \  doz.  lemons,  put  in  a  large  pitcher  and  pour 
over    1  gal.  ice  water,   sweeten,   pour  in  glasses  and  stir  in  a 
little  soda.  Alice  Mallary. 

PI  AISiTFNF"  *s  a  Perf e°t  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
iLnll  I  LIIL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


150  RECIPES. 


CANDIES. 

Sweets  to  the  sweet. 

Venuchia. 

Two  c.  brown  sugar,  J  c.  milk,  £  c.  water,  4  tb.  butter,  1  c. 
chopped  English  walnuts,  1  t.  vanilla.  Boil  together  all  the 
ingredients  except  vanilla  and  nuts,  until  the  soft  ball  stage. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  beat  until 
creamy.     Turn  into  a  buttered  pan;  when  cold  cut  in  squares. 

N.  E.  F. 

Nut  Candy. 

Two  c.  granulated  sugar,  1  c.  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  small 
egg.  Boil  until  it  balls  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Butter  a 
plate  or  dish,  pour  the  mixture  in  add  f  c.  of  nuts,  then  stir 
until  too  stiff  to  stir.  Before  it  gets  cold,  wet  a  knife  in  cold 
water  and  mark  in  squares.  W. 

Cocoanut  Candy. 

Boil  2  c.  white  sugar  dissolved  in  1  c.  water  for  6  minutes. 
When  ready  to  take  from  fire  stir  in  1  c.  of  grated  cocoanut 
and  pour  at  once  into  square,  buttered  tins.  When  partly 
cooled  mark  off  in  strips  and  squares. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Rawlings. 

Peanut  Brittle. 

Put  2  c.  sugar  in  spider  over  a  fire  not  too  hot;  stir  continually 
until  it  melts,  then  stir  in  quickly  1  tea  cup  chopped  peanuts. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  on  buttered  plates. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Joiner,  Sr. 


PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnli  I  LINE,  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  151 


Pecan    Kisses. 

Five  eggs  (whites),  10  tb.  sugar  (heaping),  1  c.  pecan  nuts 
cut  fine,  2  drops  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar,  then 
nuts  and  vanilla.  Drop  on  waxed  paper  placed  in  pan.  Cook 
in  very  slow  oven,  leave  in  oven  with  door  open  for  3  minutes 
when  done.  Etta  Brown. 

Pecan  Candy. 

Put  into  a  £  gal.  stewpan  3  c.  of  granulated  sugar,  1  c.  sweet 
milk  and  2  tb.  butter.  Into  a  gallon  stewpan  put  1  c.  sugar 
and  melt  as  for  caramel.  Let  contents  of  first  pan  boil  well, 
say  10  or  15  minutes,  and  when  the  caramel  is  well  dissolved, 
pour  the  first  stewpan  into  it,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  has 
boiled  up  well,  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  it  begins  to 
cool,  then  stir  in  1  qt.  pecan  meats,  and  pour  upon  a  buttered 
tin,  and  break  in  pieces  when  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Smith. 
Chocolate   Fudge. 

One  c.  milk,  J  c.  cream,  ^  cake  chocolate,  3  c.  sugar.  Boil 
a  few  minutes,  drop  in  cold  water,  if  hardens  a  little  take  off 
and  whip  until  creamy.  Pour  on  buttered  marble  and  cut  in 
blocks.  Miss  Ola  Grimes. 

Nut   Fudge. 

Three  c.  sugar,  ^  c.  sweet  milk,  thoroughly  dissolved;  3^  tb. 
grated  chocolate  well  mixed  with  ^  c.  of  boiling  water,  1  t.  of 
vanilla,  all  well  stirred  together,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil 
until  a  little  of  it  put  on  a  buttered  dish  firmly  sets.  Put  1  c. 
chopped  nuts,  beat  until  quite  thick  and  pour  in  a  buttered 
dish  and  cut  into  squares  when  nearly  cold. 

Hattie  Gould  Haralson. 

Marsh  Mallow    Fudge. 

Two  c.  light  brown  su?ar,  1  c.  granulated  sugar,  1  c.  sweet 
milk,  J  square  chocolate,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Cook  20  min., 
add  scant  h  lb.  marsh  mallows,  ^  c.  chopped  walnuts. 

Etta  Brown. 

PI  ANTFNF  ^sa  Per^ec*  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  Lnll  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
^Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


152  RECIPES. 


INVALID   DIET. 

Scraped    Beef. 

This  is  simply  beef  from  which  all  indigestible  substances 
have  been  removed.  Take  a  tender  piece  of  beef,  cut  across 
the  grain,  scrape  with  a  spoon  until  all  the  pulp  is  removed; 
make  a  fresh  surface  by  cutting  off  the  scraped  part  with  a  thin, 
sharp  knife;  proceed  in  this  way  until  all  the  meat  is  reduced 
to  a  pulp.  If  necessary,  it  may  be  eaten  raw,  spread  very  thin 
on  slices  of  toast,  or  the  pulp  may  be  put  in  a  hot  fryingpan 
with  a  little  butter  and  allowed  to  barely  cook  through,  stirring 
and  turning  constantly.  A  weak  stomach  will  often  retain 
scraped  beef  when  it  refuses  all  other  solid  foods. 

Mes.  H.  A.  Floyd. 
Steak  on  Toast. 

Toast  slices  of  bread,  grind  raw  meat,  spread  on  bread  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  stove  and  bake  till  meat  is 
cooked.  Mes.  Geo.  Brown. 

Egg    Lemonade. 

One  egg,  beat.  Add  3  tb.  lemon  juice,  beat;  add  3  tb.  sugar, 
beat;  add  1  c.  milk,  hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  G.  W. 

Orange  Whey. 

The  juice  of  1  orange  to  1  pt.  sweet  milk.  Heat  slowly  until 
curd  forms,  strain  and  cool.     Good  drink  for  the  sick. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  S. 
Beef  Essence. 

Take  a  nice  round  steak  and  pound  it  thoroughly  and  broil 
on  a  hot  griddle  with  little  butter  just  half  done,  then  cut  in 
convenient  pieces  and  put  in  lemon  squeezer  and  press  out  the 
juice  in  tea  cup,  having  the  cup  warm;  season  with  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.     A  good  and  mild  stimulant  for  the  sick. 

PI  ANTFNF  *S  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LnM  ILnL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  153 

Buttermilk. 

Buttermilk  when  sweet  and  fresh  from  the  churn  is  nutritious 
and  wholesome.  There  are  many  forms  of  dyspepsia  in  which 
it  "will  set  on  the  stomach"  when  hardly  anything  else  will. 
In  cases  of  fever  it  sometimes  becomes  a  question  how  to  nour- 
ish the  patient.  In  such  cases  buttermilk  is  sometimes  found 
to  be  the  best  food  that  can  be  given. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

Home  Made  Mustard. 

Some  one  wished  a  recipe  for  prepared  mustard.  Here  is  a 
French  mustard  we  have  used  for  15  years: 

Break  1  egg  into  an  agate  dish  which  may  be  set  on  the  fire, 
beat  egg  light.  Pour  enough  ground  mustard  into  a  tea  cup  to 
half  fill  it.  Stir  into  this  2  slightly  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar  and  pinch  of  salt.  Fill  cup  up  with  vinegar, 
mix  until  free  from  lumps;  pour  on  the  beaten  egg  and  set  on 
the  fire.  Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  3  or  4  minutes  will 
do.  When  cooked  add  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  small  walnut 
or  teaspoonful  of  olive  oil.  Very  Busy. 

*  *         * 

If  the  oven  is  too  hot  for  bread  set  a  dish  of  cold  water  in  it. 

*  ■>         * 

A  tablespoon  of  stewed  tomatoes  or  catsup  added  to  the  gravy 
of  roast  meats  is  thought  by  some  to  improve  it. 

*  *         * 

To  clean  finger  marks  from  paint  wipe  the  spots  first  with  a 
cloth  dipped  in  warm  water,  then  with  a  cloth  dipped  in 
whiting  and  wipe  again  with  a  clean,  damp  cloth. 

*  *         * 

Green  deposits  on  marble  may  be  removed  by  applying  a 
paste  of  quicksilver  and  washing  soda. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
T  LnM  I  LliL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


154  RECIPES. 


Mortar  and  paint  may  be  removed  from  window  glass  with 

hot,  sharp  vinegar. 

*  *         * 

Many  a  mother  know  how  the  little  ones  cry  with  pain  after 
a  hard  day's  play,  and  the  little  limbs  are  so  tired;  and  perhaps 
the  mother  is  tired  too.  If  she  will  take  a  h  pt.  of  gasoline  and 
\  oz.  of  camphor  gum  dissolved  in  it  and  bathe  the  parts 
affected,  the  results  will  be  magical.  Be  careful — the  gasoline 
is  inflamable,  and  must  not  be  used  near  an  open  fire  or  lamp. 

*  *        * 

To  quickly  remove  ink  stains  from  any  fabric  place  the  stain 
■over  steam  and  apply  salt  and  lemon  juice.  The  stain  whether 
old  or  new  will  be  removed  almost  immediately. 

*  *         * 

To  remove  blood  from  cloth  make  a  paste  of  starch  with  cold 
water,  apply  and  place  in  the  sun  and  when  dry  it  will  rub  off. 
If  there  is  any  particle  of  color  left,  repeat. 

>!<         *         * 

When  paint  has  become  dried  on  the  window  panes,  remove 
the  sash,  and  laying  flat,  dampen.  Then  rub  with  the  flat 
surface  of  a  penny.     It  will  be  found  that  all  the  paint  spots  will 

disappear. 

*  *         * 

To  bleach  handkerchiefs  after  washing,  let  them  soak  over 
night  in  water  in  which  a   bit  of  cream    of  tartar   has   been 

dissolved. 

*  .     >i<         * 

When  the  ham  is  hard  and  salty  try  soaking  it  sliced  in  milk 

over  night.  . 

%         *         ^ 

It  is  said  that  a  knife  moistened  with  a  strong  solution  of 
potash  will  cut  india  rubber  quite  easily. 

*  *         # 
Apply  flour  wet  with  cold  water  to  a  burn. 

PI  AIMTFNF  *s  a  Pei"fect'  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
ILMIN  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
■"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  155 

By  having  an  orange  and  a  small  onion  inside  the  duck  while 
roasting  its  flavor  is  much  improved. 

^        *         * 

What  is  known  as  "Kerosene  Emulsion"  is  one  of  the  best 
insect  destroyers.  It  is  made  as  follows :  Dissolve  1  lb.  of 
turpentine  soap  in  2  gal.  water.  Heat  this  solution,  and  while 
hot  add  2  gal.  of  kerosene,  and  churn  the  mixture  with  a  force 
pump  for  8  or  10  min.,  or  until  it  forms  a  cream,  which 
thickens  on  cooling,  and  will  stick  to  glass  without  oiliness. 
Put  this  in  a  close  jar  and  when  to  be  used  dilute  with  1  part  of 
Emulsion  to  9  of  cold  water. 

^        %.         %. 

To  relieve  the  smarting  of  a  burn,  cover  with  vaseline;  then 
sprinkle  thickly  with  flour,  so  as  to  form  a  paste,  cover  it.  This 
keeps  out  the  air  and  stops  the  smarting  almost  instantly. 

*        *        * 

A  No.  1  flat  paint  brush  makes  an   excellent  thing  to  grease 

tins,  gem  pans,  etc. 

%■  ^  >K 

A  little  cream  of  tartar  or  vinegar  improves  boiled  frosting. 
It  will  not  grain  so  readily   and  will  be  more   creamy  and  will 

not  harden. 

%■         %         ^ 

A  few  drops  of  kerosene  added  to  cooked  starch  will  make 
clothes  more  glossy  and  will  keep  irons  from  sticking. 

%.  5JS  >K 

Turpentine  added  to  water  in  which  clothes  are  to  be  boiled 

will  whiten  them. 

^        %■        * 

Salt  puts  out  a  fire  in  the  chimney.  Salt  in  the  oven  under 
baking  tins  will  prevent  scorching  on  the  bottoms.  Salt  and 
vinegar  will  remove  stains  from  discolored  tea  cups. 

^        ^        ^ 

Salt  and  soda  are  excellent  for  bee  stings  and  spider  bites. 

PI  ANTFNF  *s  a  Per^ect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  LnIN  I  LmL  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


156  RECIPES. 

Salt   thrown   on  soot  which  has  fallen   on  the   carpet  will 

prevent  stains. 

*  *        * 

Salt  put  on  ink  when  freshly  spilled  on  a  carpet  will  remove 
the  spot. 

*  *         * 

Salt  thrown  on  a  coal  fire  which  is  low  will  revive  it. 

*  *         * 

Salt  used  in  sweeping  carpets  keeps  out  moths. 

>K  >K  >fc 

Warm  salt  water  is  good  for  sore  throat  used  as  a  gargle;  it  is 
also  a  good  mouth  wash,  it  hardens  the  gums. 

s|c  ;j;  5)« 

If  a  pinch  of  soda  is  added  to  cranberries  when  stewing  the 
flavor  will  be  much  improved. 

*  *        * 

If  you  punch  a  few  holes  in  the  bottom  of  your  pie  tins  the 
pies  will  brown  nicely  on  the  bottom   and  the  crust  will  not  be 

soggy. 

*  *         * 

If  the  steak  is  tough,  pound  it;  then  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in 
pan  in  which  you  have  browned  a  tb.  of  butter.  The  flour 
keeps  the  juice  in  and  the  steak  will  be  tender  and  of  good  flavor. 

*  *         # 

When   using  cornstarch  or  flour  for  pudding,  etc.,  mix  with 

the  sugar  instead  of  with  water  or  milk,   and  it  will  never  be 

lumpy. 

^         %         %  . 

To  remove  rust,  paint,  fruit  or  acid  stains,  4  tb.  of  ammonia. 
4  tb.  of  alcohol,  1  tb.  of  salt.     Shake  well  together. 

^r*  'h  *K 

Pour  a  little  turpentine  in  your  stove  blacking  and  the  black- 
ing will  stick  better  and  give  a  nicer  polish. 


PI  AIMTFNF  is  a  perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
rLnll  I  LINE,  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


RECIPES.  157 


If  circumstances  are  such  that  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  ice,  you 
may  still  keep  your  butter  sweet  and  firm,  even  though  you  are 
without  a  cellar.  If  the  butter  is  not  too  soft,  roll  in  a  napkin 
and  immerse  it  in  flour.  The  result  will  be  all  that  could  be 
desired.  If  the  butter  is  melted,  put  it  in  a  bucket,  place  on 
the  lid  and  set  in  the  flour,  always  being  careful  to  keep  it 
entirely  covered  with  the  flour.  This  is  a  method  practiced  by 
cowboys  on  the  ranches,  remote  from  centers  of  civilization, 
where  ice  cannot  be  had  at  any  price. 


GENERAL   SUGGESTIONS. 


Supplies  for  Entertaining. 

One  medium  sized  loaf  of  bread  will  cut  in  20  slices  for  sand- 
wiches. One  medium  sized  layer  cake  will  serve  20.  One  gal. 
of  ice  cream  will  serve  20.  One  gal.  of  ice  will  serve  25.  Three 
qt.  of  wine  jelly  will  serve  50.  A  10  lb.  turkey  or  12  lbs.  of 
chicken  with  15  heads  of  celery  will  make  salad  for  50  people. 
Two  qts.  of  bulk  oysters  will  make  1  large  pan  escolloped 
oysters.     One  lb.  of  coffee  will  serve  25. 

Cook's  Time  Table. 

Roast  beef  15  min.  to  the  lb. ;  mutton  15  min.  to  lb. ;  veal  25 
min.  to  lb. ;  pork  30  min.  to  lb. ;  eggs,  soft  boiled,  3  min. ;  eggs, 
hard  boiled,  5  min. ;  very  hard,  to  slice,  15  min. 

Weight  Without   Scales. 

Wheat  flour,  1  lb.  is  1  qt.;  Indian  meal,  1  lb.  is  1  qt.;  butter 
when  soft,  1  lb.  is  1  qt. ;  loaf  sugar  broken,  1  lb.  is  1  qt.,; 
white  sugar,  powdered,  1  lb.  is  1  qt.;  best  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  is 
1  qt. ;  eggs,  10  are  1  lb. 


PI  ANTFNF  is  a  Perfect  substitute  for  either  hog  lard  or 
I  l_nil  I  LML  butter;  use  about  one-half  the  quantity  of 
"Plantene"  as  of  either.     Observe  directions  on  can. 


158  RECIPES. 

Liquid  Measure. 

Sixteen  large  tbs.  are  \  pt. ;  8  large  tbs.  are  1  gill;  4  large  tbs. 
are  ^  gill;  a  common  sized  tumbler  holds  ^  pt. ;  a  common  sized 
wine  glass  is  -|  gill;  a  large  wine  glass  is  2  ozs. ;  2  gills  are  J  pt. ; 
2  pt.  are  1  qt. ;  4  qts.  are  1  gal.;  a  teacup  is  1  gill;  1  t.  is  ^ 
oz. ;  40  drops  equals  1  t. 


OlSTE    PRICE   TO   ALL. 

If  it's  style  you  want. 

If  it's  value  returned  you  want. 

If  it's  quality  at  lowest  cost  you  want. 

YOU'LL  FIND  IT  AT 

IF  YOU  ARE  BUYING. 

Dress  Goods  and  5ilks,  Laces  and  Embroideries, 

Ladies'  Suits  and  Waists, 
Millinery, 

Gloves  and  Belts, 
Dress  Trimmings,  Wash   Goods. 

IF  IT'S  STYLISH 


ROSENBERG    BROS. 

HAVE  IT ALBANY,  GEORGIA. 


CHURPH  WELL'S 

A  MODERN   DEPARTMENT  STORE. 

We  make  price  the  attractive  feature — that  we 
buy  and  sell  for  cash — of  every  department. 

SHOES,         DRY    GOODS,  CLOTHING,  '       NOTIONS,. 

CHINA,      FURNITURE, 
LADIES'  AND  MEN'S  FURNISHINGS, 

HATS     AND    HOUSE    FURNISHINGS. 

Now  at  the  time  of  tremendous  advances  in  all  merchandise 
we — even  at  a  scarifice  of  a  part  of  usual  small  profit,  keep  the 
quality  up,  the  price  down. 

We  have  well  won  our  motto — "Sells  it  for  Less." 

Davis-Exchange        )      rin  inpiiiiin  i  «p       f   Davis-Exchange 
Bank  Building       \     (HIlKlnVvtM    S     \       Bank  Building, 


Albany,  Ga.   J  i  Albany,  Ga. 


Some  Few  Figures  on  PECANS. 

Total  Cost  for  5  Years  for  10-Acre  Grove,  200  Budded  Trees  7  Years  Old $3,000.00 

Average  Yield  at  5  Years,  10  Pounds  to  Tree,  2,0UU  Hounds  at  25c  Pound 9    500.00 

Average  Yield  at  6  T»ars,  3,000  Pounds 750.00 

Average  Yield  at  7  Years,  4,000  Pounds i  1,000.00 

Average  Yield  at  8  Years,  5,000  Pounds 1,250.00 

Average  Yield  at  '.»  Years.  6,000  Pounds 1,500.00 

Average  Yield  at  10  Years, 7,000  Pounds 1,750.00- &>,8a0.00 

In  ten  years  you  have  made  a  profit  of  82,850.00,  and  own  a  10-acre  12-year  old  Pecan 
Grove  which,  on  a  most  conservative  calculation,  will  bring  an  annual  income  of  $2,000.00. 
Compare  this  with  your  real  estate,  bank   stock  and  life  insurance  investments. 

Ex-Governor  Hogg,  of  Texas,  when  consulted  on 
his  death-bed  as  to  the  kind  of  monument  he  wished 
when  he  should  die,   said: 

'•I  want  no  monument  of  stone,  but  let  my  children  plant  at  the 
head  of  my  grave  a  Pecan  tree,  and  at  the  foot  of  my  grave  a  Walnut 
tree,  and  when  these  trees  shall  bear  fruit,  let  the  Pecans  and  Walnute 
be  given  out  among  the  plain  people  of  Texas,  so  they  may  plant  them 
and  make  Texas  a  land  of  trees." 


DOUGHERTY    PECAN    CO., 

ALBANY,   GEORGIA. 


W,  B.  McKELLAR, 


Dealer  in 

HIGH  GRADE  FLOUR 


and  STAPLE  &  FANCY  GROCERIES. 

.A^B-A^ISTY.,  GEORGIA. 


Gilbert  Printing  Co*, 

Columbus,  Ga. 

Blank  Books  kept  in  stock  and 
made  to  order.  All  kinds  of 
Mercantile  Stationery. 


MAY  37    190? 


*****  ••«-  ^*  ■*$&  *^*  •*»  *^  •' 


O 

^o^ 


A-         *     g^  *       ,  ^  ^ 


'*'  °-     y>.-^:.%      c°*,g^:*0o      <**.^% 


V>~    ^ 


*     ... 


o  "   °  ^        *<J> 


^fr_  *  ° "  ° "    ^v 


V 


**  &  *i 


Cl      ^      A*        *V 


^'*^T*'^V         ^> 


•^o" 


vv 


/     *v     V 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY  INC. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  011  022  291  9  $ 


