*-l    TX 


The  Battle  Creek 

COOK  BOOK 


THIRD  FDITIOr 


PUBLISHED  BY 
THE  WOMEN   OF  THE 

FIRST  CONGREGATIONAL  CHURCH 

BATTLE  CREEK,  MICHIGAN 


A-B  Gas  Ranges 


equipped  with 

A-B     OVEN 

HEAT  CONTROL 

-  Save  Gas 

—  Save  Time 
--  Save  Work 


This  wonderful  device  regulates  the 
oven  heat  for  you — prevents  over-bak- 
ing or  under-baking;  it  banishes  guess 
work  and  makes  watching  unnecess- 
ary.  Every  A-B  Oven  Heat  Control  is 

GUARANTEED  FOR  S  YEARS 

Descriptive  Literature  Mailed 
on  Request 

A-B  STOVE  COMPANY 

BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 


<&    COMPANY   fe> 

Dependable  Merchandise 


A  MAN'S  SHOP  OF  THE  HIGHEST  CHARACTER 

FURNISHINGS,   HATS   AND   COSTUM   TAILORING 

"FOR  MEN  WHO  CARE" 

SKINNER  &  TITUS  COMPANY 

56  West  Main  Street 


KLEIN'S 

Cloaks,  Suits  and  Millinery 

correct  apparel  for  women 
ARCADE  AT  MAIN  STREET 


This  Page  of  Space  is 
Paid  for  by  a  Friend  of 
The  Women 's  Aid  Society 


X 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 


The 
BATTLE  CREEK  SANITARIUM 

BATTLE  CREEK,  MICHIGAN 


CITY  ICE  &  COLD  STORAGE  CO.  Inc. 


E  CREEK,  Ml 


COAL  COKE  WOOD 

For  real  quality  and  service  phone  us 
your  next  order  for  fuel. 

Our  seven  modern  concrete  coal  pock- 
ets put  us  in  position  to  give  you  the 
best  service  in  the  city  which  we  back 
up  with  the  highest  quality  of  fuel  ob- 
tainable, coupled  with  a  square  deal  in 
every  transaction. 

We  make  good  our  slogan. 

CLARKS   COAL    COMES    CLEAN 

E.  G.  CLARK 


Office  cor.  Marshall  &  Beach  Sts. 
Yards  Beach  St.  end  of  Bennett. 


Phones    Bell  112 
Citz.  4280 


THE  BATTLE  CREEK 


COOK  BOOK 


A    COLLECTION    OF 


Well  Tested  Recipes 

SELECTED    BY 

THE  WOMEN  OF  THE 

FIRST  CONGREGATIONAL  CHURCH 

BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 


"He  Hath  Never  Fed  of  the  Dainties  that  Are  Bred  in  a  Book' 


BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 

ELLIS  PUBLISHING  COMPANY 
1922 


&*1 


<tf 


Copyright,  1922 

By  the  Women  of  the  First  Congregational  Church 
Battle  Creek,  Michigan 


DLCli'22 

C1A690534 


iWhen   You 
Make  Cake 


,:1 


1 


I- 


T 


. 


A 


swans  down 


Nothing  gives  such  wonderful  results 
in  home  made  cake  as  Swans  Down 
Cake  Flour!  Try  it  in  any  good  recipe. 
You  can  have  lighter,  whiter,  finer, 
better  cake — pie  crust — pastry,  just  as 
you  long  to  have  it. 

Swans  Down  costs  only  a  few  cents  for 

each  cake  made  and  yet  it  saves  all  the 

costly  waste  of  cake  disappointments. 

Swans  Down  has  been  the   grocers'   choice 
for  25  years. 

IGLEHEART  BROTHERS 

Evansville,  Indiana 

Established  1856 

Also  manufacturers  of  Swans  Down  Wheat 
Bran,  Nature's  Laxative  Food. 

SWANS  DOWN 

Prepared  (Not  Self-Rising) 

CAKE  FLOUR 

Preferred  by  Housewives  for  25  years 


Try  This  Cake  Recipe 


DELICIOUS  SWANS  DOWN  CAKE 

1 2  cupful  butter,  or  substitute  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  cupful  sugar  Vi  teaspoonful  salt 

2  3  cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
2  cupfuls  SWANS  DOWN  CAKE  FLOUR           3  egg  whites 

Cream  butter,  gradually  add  sugar,  creaming  mixture  well.  Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add 
baking  powder  and  salt  and  sift  three  times.  Add  the  flour  and  milk  alternately  to  the  creamed 
butter  and  sugar,  beating  batter  hard  between  each  addition  of  flour  and  milk.  Add  vanilla 
extract.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  bake  in  a  loaf  or  two  layers  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Ice  as  desired. 

Before  attempting  to  make  any  cakes  in  this  book,  read  this  article.  It  may  prevent  a  cake 
failure,  thereby  saving  the  waste  of  ingredients.  These  are  the  four  most  important  steps 
in  cake-making,  and  if  followed  carefully  will  help  you  to  make  really,  good  cake. 

SELECTING  INGREDIENTS 

A  good  cake  cannot  be  made  with  poor  ingredients.  For  the  best  results  choose  only  the 
purest  materials  obtainable.  Cake  is  a  food  that  contains  the  most  nutritive  elements,  such 
as  eggs,  butter,  milk,  sugar,  flour,  etc.  Cake  is  more  delicate  than  bread  and  needs  a  more 
delicate  flour.  This  flour  is  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour,  soft,  white,  and  velvety,  made  especially 
for  cake  and  pastry  making.  Swans  Down  costs  but  a  few  cents  more  per  cake  and  yet  it 
insures  against  disappointment  and  costly  cake  failures.  Lighter,  whiter,  finer,  better  cakes 
if  you  use  Swans  Down. 

MEASURING 

All  ingredients  called  for  in  any  good  recipe  must  be  accurately  mixed  and  all  measure- 
ments should  be  level.  This  is  necessary  in  order  to  obtain  the  same  results  in  each  baking. 
The  standard  one-half  pint  measuring  cup  should  be  used  and  the  recipe  followed   exactly. 

CAREFUL  MIXING 

It  is  necessary  in  successful  cake  making  that  all  ingredients  be  perfectly  measured  and 
utensils  and  cake  tins  be  ready  before  beginning  to  mix  the  cake.  Always  beat  the  shortening 
to  a  cream  before  adding  any  sugar.  Add  sugar  gradually,  creaming  the  mixture  meanwhile. 
Add  a  little  sifted  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour,  with  baking  powder  added,  then  a  little  milk  and 
so  on  alternately  until  all  the  flour  and  milk  are  used,  beat  the  batter,  never  stirring,  after  each 
addition  of  flour  and  milk.  Add  flavoring.  lhe  stiffly-beaten  egg-whites  should  be  next 
folded  in  very  carefully  if  recipe  calls  for  same.  Work  quickly,  but  carefully,  in  mixing 
your  cake. 

CORRECT  OVEN  HEAT 

The  heat  of  oven  for  cake  making  is  of  very  great  importance.  There  are  some  general 
guides  for  temperature  which  may  be  profitably  observed.  All  thin  layer,  small  cakes  and 
cookies  require  a  hot  oven  (350-400°F).  Thick  layer  and  cakes  baked  in  a  loaf  require  a  mo- 
derate oven  (325-375°F)  while  sponge  cakes  and  angel  cakes  require  a  slow  oven  (250-300°F). 
Fruit  cakes  require  even  a  slower  oven  (200-250°F). 

The  helpful  hints  above  are  taken  from  "Cake  Secrets,"  an  authoritative  booklet  on  cake 
making  by  Janet  McKenzie  Hill,  editor  of  American  Cookery  Magazine.  You  are  welcome 
to  a  copy  full  of  original  recipes,  directions,  illustrations — for  10c  sent  to  Igleheart  Brothers, 
Evansville,  Indiana,  Department  C.  I.  Best  grocers  everywhere  have  Swans  Down  Cake 
Flour.    If  you  cannot  get  it,  write  us.    Use  it  in  your  cake  and  pastry  making. 

Always  use  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  in  all  cake  recipes  given  injhis  book  and  elsewhere. 
It  insures  lighter,  whiter,  finer  cakes. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Soups - 1 

Fish  and  Oysters 10 

Meats 17 

Sauces  for  Meats 26 

Poultry  and  Game - 28 

Vegetables 34 

Bread 45 

Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes 51 

Luncheon  and  Side  Dishes.. 58 

Salads 71 

Pastry  and  Puddings 82 

Desserts  and  Creams 104 

Cake 117 

Jellies  and  Conserves 142 

Pickles 148 

Confectionery 158 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures - 164 


KELLOGG'S  BRAN 

MAKES  the  best  bran  muffiins  you  ever  ate — 
and  they  help  keep  you  healthy 

Kellogg 's  Bran  is  not  only  ready  to  eat — a  brand- 
new  cereal  food  made  of  bran — but  because  of  its 
unusual  goodness  and  choice  flavor  it  is  away  ahead 
of  ordinary  brans  for  making 
bread,  muffins,  gems,  pancakes, 
etc. 

Muffins  made  with  Kellogg's  Bran 
— whether  you  use  your  own  recipe 
or  follow  the  one  on  the  package — 
are  not  only  light  and  tempting,  but 
they  have  a  rich,  palatable  taste.  This 
is  because  we  keep  the  nutlike  flavor 
in  the  bran  as  we  krumble  it,  and 
bring  out  a  sweet,  pleasing  flavor 
besides. 

Millions  of  people  have  welcomed 
Kellogg's  Bran.  For  them  it  makes  a 
pleasure  instead*  of  a  distasteful  task 
of  eating  bran  in  some  form  every  day 
to  avoid  constipation. 

CAUTION— Be  sure  to  get  the 
genuine.  Ask  your  grocer  for  Kel- 
logg's Bran.  Bemember  the  name 
KELLOGG'S.  You  only  get  the  wax- 
tite  package  bearing  the  signature  of 


Kellogg' s   Bran 
,       Muffins 

Cream  34  c.  sugar, 
and  shortening  size 
of  an  egg,  together. 
Add  to  this  one  egg, 
1  c.  sour  milk  (or 
sweet  milk),  1  c. 
Kellogg's  Bran,  \]/i 
c.  flour,  1  level  tsp. 
soda  (or  2  tsp.  bak- 
ing powder  if  sweet 
milk  is  used),  Pinch 
Salt.     Mix  well. 

This  will  make 
twelve  large  deli- 
cious   muffins. 


Mtfak 


°ff- 


SOUPS 


"Ceres  presents  a  plate  of  vermicelli; 

For  love  must  be  sustained  like  flesh  and  blood; 
While  Bacchus  pours  out  wine,  or  hands  a  jelly; 
Eggs,  oysters,  too,  are  amatory  food." 

Stock  For  Soups 

Stock  for  soups  is  made  from  meat  or  bones,  or  of 
cooked  joints  of  meat  (omitting  the  fat — this  would 
give  a  tallowy  flavor  to  the  soup),  to  which  may  be 
added  chicken,  turkey,  beef,  or  mutton  bones,  well  broken 
up.  Put  all  this  in  cold  water  without  salt;  let  it  come 
slowly  to  boiling  point,  then  skim  well;  set  it  back  and 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  six  hours,  until  the  meat  is  in 
shreds.  Rapid  boiling  hardens  the  fiber  of  the  meat,  and 
the  savory  flavor  escapes  with  the  steam.  Add  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  strain  into  a  stone  jar,  let  it  cool,  and 
remove  all  the  grease.  This  stock  will  keep  for  many 
days  in  cold  weather,  and  from  it  can  be  made  all  the 
various  kinds  of  soups. 

White   Soup 

A  knuckle  of  veal,  2  turnips,  1  carrot,  2  tablespoons  of 
whole  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  ground  rice  or  farina. 
Boil  and  strain  through  a  sieve.    Beat  the  yolks  of  three 


WALK  OVER  SHOES 


ARE   GOOD   SHOES 

BUTCHER -  BLACK  CO, 


2  soups 

eggs;  put  in  a  very  little  of  the  whites,  add  a  pint  of 
cream.  Do  not  boil  the  eggs  and  cream,  but  put  them 
in  a  tureen  and  stir  as  you  pour  the  soup  upon  them. 

Mrs.  Anna  Scott. 

Oyster   Soup 

Drain  1  can  of  oysters.  Boil  the  liquor  and  1  pint  of 
water;  skim  well.  Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Add  oysters  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  1  cup  milk 
or  cream,  heated  separately. 

Miss  Cora  C.  Leon. 

Tomato  Soup 

One  quart  canned  tomatoes,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  of  sugar,  and  1  pint  of  hot 
water.  Let  tomatoes  and  water  come  to  a  boil.  Rub 
flour,  butter,  and  a  little  tomato  juice  together,  stir  into 
boiling  mixture.  Boil  15  minutes.  Strain  through  a  sieve 
and  serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread. 

Mrs.  Walter  Clark. 

Tomato  Soup 

One  quart  of  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  quart  of  hot 
water,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  pepper  to  taste,  4  cloves,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  parsley,  1  tablespoon  corn-starch.  Add  cloves, 
salt  and  pepper  to  tomatoes  and  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  it  bubbles,  put  in 
the  onion  and  parsley.  Fry  five  minutes,  being  careful 
not  to  burn  it;  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes;  add  more  salt 


SOUPS  6 

if  needed.    Strain  it ;  then  add  the  corn-starch  dissolved 
in  a  little  water.  Serve  with  boiled  rice  or  toasted  crackers 

Mrs.  Sallie  Palmer. 

Tomato  Soup 

Boil  1  quart  of  tomatoes  in  1  quart  of  water  until 
smooth.  Add  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda.  When  the 
effervescence  has  subsided,  add  1  quart  of  scalded  milk 
with  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  and  thicken 
with  cracker  crumbs.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Barrer. 

Pea  Soup 

Soak  1  quart  split  peas  over  night.  Next  morning  boil 
with  2  carrots,  2  onions,  1  stalk  celery  and  a  little  piece 
of  salt  pork.  Boil  all  the  morning,  being  careful  not  to 
scorch;  strain,  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Smith. 

Green   Pea   Soup 

Cover  a  quart  of  green  peas  with  hot  water,  and  boil 
until  they  mash  easily.  Mash,  and  add  1  pint  of  stock  or 
water.  Cook  together  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  of 
flour,  until  smooth,  but  not  brown;  add  to  the  peas  and 
then  add  1  cup  of  milk  and  1  of  cream.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  boil  once;  strain  and  serve.  A  cup  of 
whipped  cream  added  at  the  last  moment  is  an  improve- 
ment.   Canned  peas  may  be  used  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Maude  C.  Ward. 


ttle   Creek   Qarfc>£»g»    Company 
IN  THE  CITY 
PAYING  CITY  TAXES 

WHY  NOT  TRADE  AT  HOME?  BELL  PHONE  328 


Only  Garbage  Co. 


4  soups 

Potato   Soup 

Boil  3  potatoes  and  put  through  a  colander;  mix  these 
with  a  small  piece  of  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
browned  flour,  salt,  a  little  onion  and  a  little  finely  chop- 
ped parsley.  Add  the  mixture  with  a  few  bread  crumbs 
to  soup  stock  already  prepared.  Improved  by  adding 
just  before  serving,  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Hawxhurst. 

Black  Bean  Soup 

One  pint  black  beans  boiled  soft  and  put  through 
sieve,  being  careful  not  to  let  any  of  the  skins  through. 
Add  this  to  about  1  quart  beef  stock  and  season  well. 
Add  either  catsup  or  Chilli  sauce.  Serve  with  sliced 
lemon.  The  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine, 
are  nice  to  add  to  any  dark  soup. 

Mrs.  Mary  McCamly  Smith. 

Bean    Soup 

One  pint  of  beans  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water. 
In  the  morning  add  2  quarts  of  water  and  I  teaspoon 
soda.  Boil  \  hour  in  the  soda  water,  then  pour  off  and 
wash  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Boil  again  in  2  quarts 
of  water  to  which  is  added  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  and  1  hard  boiled  egg,  chopped  fine. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Noble. 

Potato   Soup 

Three  large  potatoes,  \  green  pepper  cut  fine,  3  onions, 
1  slice  fat  salt  pork,  3  stalks  celery  cut  fine,  parsley. 
Cook  in  small  amount  of  water  until  done.  There  should 


SOUPS 


be  no  water  to  drain  off.  Remove  the  salt  pork.  Mash 
with  a  potato  masher  and  add  4  cups  milk.  Reheat  and 
8erve.  Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harbert. 

Potato  Chowder 

Six  large  potatoes,  \  pound  salt  pork,  1  onion,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  pint  milk  or  cream; 
1  pint  water,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  i  teaspoon  pepper.  Dice  potatoes  and  pork;  slice 
onion;  fry  pork  and  onion  until  light  brown.  Put  in 
kettle  layer  of  potatoes,  then  onion  and  pork,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Repeat  until  all  is  used, 
pour  over  grease  from  pan.  Add  1  pint  water,  cover  and 
simmer  20  minutes.  Scald  milk  in  boiler  and  add  melted 
butter  and  flour  browned  together,  add  to  pot  when 
potatoes  are  tender,  stir  carefully.  Season  if  necessary, 
serve  hot.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Hawk. 

Corn  Soup 

Made  either  of  fresh  or  canned  corn.  When  fresh,  cut 
from  cob,  and  scrape  all  that  is  sweet  that  remains  on  cob. 
To  1  pint  of  corn  add  1  quart  hot  water,  boil  1  hour  or 
longer,  and  put  through  colander.  Put  into  saucepan 
butter  the  size  of  small  egg,  and  when  thoroughly  melted, 
sprinkle  in  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour.  Cook  a  moment, 
stirring  constantly.  Now  add  \  corn  pulp  and  when 
smoothly  mixed,  add  remainder.  Season  with  cayenne 
pepper,  salt  and  when  done,  add  a  scant  pint  of  boiling 
milk  and  a  cup  of  cream.  All  milk  can  be  used,  but  in 
such  a  case,  add  more  butter. 

Mrs.  Mary  McCamly  Smith. 


6  soups 

Onion  Soup 

Slice  4  large  onions  very  thin,  fry  in  butter.  Add  1 
quart  of  well  seasoned  beef  stock,  put  on  top  4  slices 
toasted  bread  and  sprinkle  over  3  tablespoons  grated 
cheese.  Mrs.  H.  C.   Hawk. 

Mushroom  Soup 

One  onion  cut  fine,  a  little  parsley,  2  cups  of  beef  stock; 
boil  together  20  minutes;  then  strain.  Add  §  can  mush- 
rooms cut  in  thin  slices,  and  boil  20  minutes.  Add  1  cup 
of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
stir  flour  and  butter  together.  Let  boil;  and  when  ready 
to  serve,  pour  in  1  cup  whipped  cream.  This  will  serve 
six  persons.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Vegetable   Soup 

Put  3  pounds  of  soup  bone  into  3  quarts  of  water  and 
boil  4  hours.    One  hour  before  serving,  grate  1  carrot, 

1  potato,  and  chop  |  head  of  cabbage  very  fine.  Add  \ 
pint  of  tomatoes,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Strain 
before  serving.  Mrs.  W.   H.   Norle. 

Canned  Vegetable  Soup 

One-half  bu.  tomatoes,  18  ears  corn  cut  off  the  cob, 

2  cabbages  cut  fine,  12  stalks  celery,  2  bunches  carrots, 
4  green  peppers,  12  large  onions,  1  red  pepper.  Season 
with  salt  and  parsley.  Put  all  together  and  cook  \\ 
hours.    Put  in  sterilized  glass  jars  very  hot  and  seal  im- 

^£ttttf?ltt   &     00  WNS&  WRAPS 


SOUPS  I 

mediately.      In  the  winter  combine  with  soup  stock, 
canned  bouillon  or  bouillon  cubes. 

Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harbert. 

Noodle   Soup 

For  the  noodles,  take  1  egg,  a  little  salt,  4  tablespoons 
of  sweet  milk,  2  even  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flour  to 
make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Roll  thin,  and  cut  in  fine 
strips,  adding  to  any  soup  stock  and  cook  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Oyster  Purie 

One  quart  of  oysters  well  cooked  in  the  liquor,  then 
strain  through  a  colander.  Set  the  juice  aside,  and  chop 
the  oysters  very  fine.  Make  a  cream  sauce  as  follows: 
|  cup  of  butter,  and  3  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour;  melt 
in  a  saucepan,  stirring  constantly;  add  to  this  1  quart  of 
sweet  cream,  and  let  boil  one  minute;  then  add  the  liquor 
and  chopped  oysters,  salt  and  pepper;  serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  N.  A.  Osgood. 

Bouillon 

Five  pounds  lean  beef  from  lower  round,  3  quarts 
water;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  slowly;  skim  and  set  back 
where  it  will  keep  at  a  boiling  point  8  or  10  hours.  About 
§  hour  before  taking  off,  add  6  whole  peppers,  3  or  4 
cloves,  small  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  each  of  thyme,  summer 
savory,  and  parsley,  half  a  stalk  of  celery,  small  onion, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Strain,  and  when  cold,  skim.  Put  on 
the  fire  again,  and  when  hot,  put  in  the  white  of  an  egg, 
slightly  beaten,  with  what  egg  shells  you  have,  broken 


S  s6ups 

in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  a  little  burnt  sugar  for  color- 
ing.    Strain  through  a  flannel  bag. 

Mrs.  Belle  H.  Ward. 

Savora  Bouillon 

One  half  cup  diced  carrots,  1-3  cup  diced  turnips,  1-3 
cup  sliced  onions,  1-3  cup  chopped  celery,  2  tablespoons 
Savita,  3  quarts  cold  water.  Put  the  vegetables  to 
cook  and  let  them  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Let 
boil  for  one  hour  or  more  or  until  the  vegetables  are 
tender  and  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  1  \  quarts.  Strain  out 
the  vegetables  and  add  the  Savita  and  salt  if  desired. 
Clarify  the  stock  as  follows:  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
slightly,  break  the  shells  into  small  pieces  and  add  with 
the  beaten  whites  to  the  cool  stock.  Place  over  a  hot 
fire  and  stir"constantly  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached. 
Boil  2  minutes  and  then  set  on  the  back  of  the  range 
andTlet*  simmer  20  minutes.     Remove  the  scum  and 

id*.  ah  »- 

strain  through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth  placed 
over  a  fine  strainer.  It  may  now  be  served  as  a  clear 
bouillon,  or  it  may  be  served  in  bouillon  cups  with  a 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Superior  in  flavor  to  any  meat  bouillon. 

Courtesy  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 

Mock  Chicken  Soup 

Three  tablespoons  rice,  3  cups  water,  \  cup  mushrooms 
1  teaspoon  Savita,  3  tablespoons  butter.  Cook  the  rice 
one-half  hour  in  the  water  with  the  Savita  and  salt. 
Cook  the  mushrooms  in  a  double  boiler  in  the  butter, 


soui^s 


9 


and   add   to   the   above   ingredients.     And   you   won't 
miss  the  pullet.  The  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 

Cream  of  Brown  Onion  Soup 

Four  med.  size  onions,  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup 
water,  3  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups  milk,  l£  teaspoons 
salt,  §  tablespoon  Savita.  Slice  the  onions  and  put  in 
a  buttered  pan.  Add  a  little  water  and  put  into  the 
oven  covered.  When  tender,  remove  the  cover,  and 
brown.  Rub  the  browned  onions  through  a  colander, 
add  the  water  and  the  white  sauce,  made  by  adding  the 
hot  milk  to  the  butter  and  slightly  browned  flour  rub- 
bed together  until  smooth;  cook  ten  minutes  in  a  double 
boiler  before  adding  to  the  onion.  Reheat  the  soup, 
salt  and  serve.     This  makes  one  quart. 

Courtesy  of  The  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 

Turkey  Soup 

Take  the  remnants  of  a  roast  turkey,  break  the  bones, 
cover  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  4  or  5 
hours.  Then  remove  the  bones,  strain  through  a  colander 
and  add  1  pint  of  milk.  Beat  one  egg  with  1  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  stir  flour  into  it  until  it  can  be  rubbed  in  the 
hands  into  fine  pieces  like  rice.  Stir  into  the  soup  just 
before  removing  from  the  stove. 

Miss  Anna  Etzcorn. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


NO    MAN    CAN    BE    WISE    ON    AN    EMPTY    STOMACH. 

Baked    Pickerel 

Carefully  clean  and  wipe  the  fish,  and  lay  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  with  enough  hot  water  to  prevent  scorching.  Several 
muffin  rings  may  be  used  to  keep  it  off  the  bottom.  Bake 
slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  When  done, 
have  ready  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  to  which  a  few  spoons  of 
hot  water  have  been  added;  stir  in  2  large  spoons  melted 
butter,  heat  all  by  setting  cup  in  boiling  water;  add  the 
gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  and  let  it  boil  once;  place 
the  fish  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce.  Or  an 
egg  sauce  may  be  made  with  drawn  butter;  stir  in  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  quickly,  and  then  a  teaspoon  of  chopped 
parsley.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Parker. 

To  Fry  Perch  and  Other  Small  Fish 

Remove  the  heads  and  scales,  clean  and  wash  the  inside 
wipe  dry,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
cracker  crumbs,  to  which  a  pinch  of  salt  has  been  added. 
Have  ready  a  frying-pan  half  full  of  hot  lard,  drop  in  the 
fish,  and  fry  as  you  would  doughnuts.  If  the  lard  is  hot, 
they  will  cook  in  a  few  minutes.  Garnish  with  thin  slices 
of  lemon.  Mrs.  E.  Ben  Fischer. 

Victrolas  and  Records  at?I$lj€R$ 


FISH   AND   OYSTERS  11 

Stuffing  For  Baked  Fish 

Two  caps  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  each  of  onion, 
olives,  capers,  pickles  and  parsley.  1  teaspoon  salt 
and  1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  2  tablespoons  sweet 
milk.  Miss   Orpha   Plaisted. 

White  Fish  A  La  Turbot 

Steam  a  fresh  white  fish  until  tender.  Remove  bones, 
and  pick  into  bits.  Make  a  sauce  of  1  pint  rich  milk,  and 
i  cup  flour  wet  with  cold  water.  While  still  warm,  beat 
in  \  cup  butter.  Put  in  the  bottom  of  pudding  dish  a 
layer  of  fish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of 
the  sauce;  fill  the  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  fish  and 
sauce.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  dotted  with 
butter.  Bake  \  hour,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked.  Mrs.  Preston  Lovell. 

Turbot  A  La  Creme 

Boil  4  or  5  pounds  of  haddock  or  white  fish.  Take  out 
all  the  bones,  and  shred  very  fine.  Let  a  quart  of  milk, 
\  of  an  onion,  and  a  piece  of  parsley  come  to  a  boil,  then 
stir  in  a  scant  cup  of  flour,  which  has  been  mixed  with  a 
cup  of  cold  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Season  with 
|  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  salt,  and  \  teacup  of  butter. 
Butter  a  pan,  and  put  in  first  a  layer  of  sauce,  then  one  of 
fish,  finishing  with  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  a  light  grating  of  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
1  hour.  Mrs.  Maude  C.  Ward. 


BATTLE  CREEK   FRUIT  MARKET 

116  W.  Main  St.  Phones:  Bell  3139;  Citizens  3125 


12  FISH   AND   OYSTERS 

Salmon  Turbot 

Boil  1  quart  of  fresh  milk,  taking  off  the  cream  for  the 
top  dressing.  Reserve  enough  of  the  cold  milk  to  moisten 
10  level  tablespoons  of  flour.  When  smooth  stir  into  the 
hot  milk  until  a  thick  dressing  is  made.  Add  3  heaping 
tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Shred 
a  can  of  salmon,  and  place  in  a  dish  alternate  layers  of 
salmon  and  dressing,  with  the  dressing  on  the  top. 
Sprinkle  over  it  a  thin  layer  of  cracker  "crumbs,  dotted 
with  butter  and  covered  with  the  cream.  Bake  until  a 
golden  brown,  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  Nellie  P.  Hawxhurst. 

Fish  Chowder 

Cut  3  lbs.  of  fresh  fish  in  small  pieces,  first  removing 
the  bones,  \  pound  of  potatoes  cut  in  slices — not  too  thin 
— 1  large  onion  cut  fine,  §  pound  salt  pork  cut  in  \  inch 
squares.  Put  the  pork  and  onion  in  a  pan,  and  slowly 
fry  to  a  light  brown.  Butter  a  large  kettle,  and  place 
first  a  layer  of  potatoes,  next  a  layer  of  fish.  Then  sprinkle 
on  the  onion  and  pork,  repeat  until  all  are  used,  leaving 
potatoes  on  top.  Barely  cover  the  whole  with  water. 
Take  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  to  which  add  3  oz.  of 
butter  after  the  fish  etc.  has  simmered  10  minutes.  Add 
the  hot  milk,  and  let  boil  without  disturbing  for  20 
minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  a  few  broken  crack- 
ers.  If  you  wish  more  soup  add  more  milk. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 
Fish   Chowder 

Any  kind  of  fresh  fish  may  be  used,  those  having  large 
flakes  being  preferred.    Cut  in  pieces  over  an  inch  thick, 


FISH    AND    OYSTERS  13 

and  2  inches  square.  Place  eight  good  sized  slices  of  salt 
pork  in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot,  and  fry  crisp ;  remove 
the  pork,  leaving  the  fat.  Put  in  the  pot  a  layer  of  fish,  a 
layer  of  split  crackers,  and  some  of  the  pork  chopped  fine, 
with  black  and  red  pepper,  and  chopped  onions ;  then  an- 
other layer  of  fish,  another  of  crackers,  and  so  on  until  the 
pot  is  full.  Cover  with  water,  and  stew  slowly  until  the 
fish  is  cooked.  Remove  the  fish.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
rolled  crackers  or  flour;  boil,  and  pour  over  the  chowder. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Parker. 

Katie's  Clam   Chowder 

Two  quarts  of  hard-shell  clams  chopped  fine.  1  quart 
of  potatoes  cut  the  size  of  dice.  1  can  of  tomatoes,  4 
medium  onions  cut  fine,  \  of  a  lb.  of  salt  pork  cut  fine, 
\  cup  of  butter.  Salt  well.  Use  fresh  red  peppers  cut 
fine,  if  they  can  be  procured,  if  not  use  \  teaspoon  of 
cayenne  pepper,  parsley,  and  celery  chopped  fine.  Put 
in  a  large  iron  kettle  to  cook,  with  a  cup  of  rolled  cracker 
crumbs.  To  this  add  1  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  boil 
slowly  2  hours.  Mrs.  S.  J.  Titus. 

Cod-Fish   Pie 

Take  a  nice  thick  piece  of  cod-fish,  soak  until  the  fish 
will  part  in  flakes,  changing  the  water  once;  then  peel 
and  slice  some  potatoes.  Take  a  deep  dish,  rub  butter  on 
the  sides  and  bottom,  put  upon  that  a  layer  of  fish  flakes; 
alternate  with  layers  of  potatoes  dotted  with  occasional 
lumps  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  till  the  dish  is  filled. 
On  the  top,  place  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  \  cup  of 


14  FISH    AND    OYSTERS 

milk.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  cooked  through.    A  thin 
paste  or  crust  may  cover  the  whole. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Lobster  Chops 

Heat  in  a  spider  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add 
2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  and  brown.  Add  1  cup  of 
hot  sweet  cream,  then  the  lobster,  having  first  shredded 
it.  When  cool  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
heat  again  and  season.  Spread  the  mixture  \  inch  thick 
on  a  platter.  When  cool,  shape  much  like  lamb-chops. 
Dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  lard.  One  can 
of  lobster  will  make  15  to  18  chops.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce  made  as  follows:  1  can  of  tomatoes  well  cooked. 
Strain  and  add  a  little  butter,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  and 
seasoning.  Thicken  with  flour.  The  chops  can  be  made 
the  day  before  using.  Miss  Cora  Amrerg. 

Broiled   Oysters 

Take  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  lay  on  wire  frame 
over  coals.   Lay  an  oyster  on  each  piece  of  pork.   Season 
well.    Serve  on  dry  toast.    Nice  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 
Mrs.  Clelle  Humphrey  White. 

Broiled  Oysters 

Grease  a  fine  wire  gridiron,  and  dry  fine,  large, 
oysters  and  place  upon  it;  broil  quickly  over  hot  coals. 
Have  ready  some  pieces  of  buttered  toast  upon  a  hot 
platter,  and  lay  one  or  two  of  the  oysters  upon  each  piece; 
put  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt  upon  each 
one,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible,        Mrs.  Groesreck, 


FISH   AND   OYSTERS  15 

Fried    Oysters 

Season  the  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  1  egg, 
add  salt  and  pepper.  Have  prepared  also  a  dish  of  crack- 
ers rolled  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  the  oysters  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  dry  crackers, 
and  fry  in  hot  butter.  Mrs.  C.  M.  Leon. 

Deviled  Oysters 

Drain  2\  dozen  nice  fat  oysters,  chop,  and  drain  again. 
Heat  |  pint  of  rich  milk.  Rub  a  tablespoon  each  of  butter 
and  flour  together,  and  stir  in  the  milk.  When  thick,  take 
from  the  fire,  add  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  the 
oyster,  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  deep  oyster  shells  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  with 
stale  bread  crumbs,  set  in  a  baking  pan,  put  in  a  very  hot 
oven  ten  minutes.  Serve  in  the  shells;  garnish  with  sliced 
lemon  and  parsley.  Mrs.  Thorp,  Detroit. 

Deviled  Oysters 

Drain  1  pint  of  oysters,  add  \  as  many  cracker  crumbs, 
2  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per, 2  tablespoons  of  cream,  chop  together  very  fine;  fill 
halves  of  oyster  shells,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about 
20  minutes.    Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

Mrs.   Marie  Upton  Strong. 

Little  Pigs  In  Blankets 

Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  fat 
pork  or  bacon  into  thin  slices.    Wrap  an  oyster  in  each 

/     .     I    H     ,    r.  N.  J.  FREEMAN 

lfHlF3l     Dm?    MOrf        8  W.  Main  St.  Bell  Phone  1690 


Pure  Drugs,  Medicines,  Toilet  Articles,  Cigars  and  Soda  Water 


16  FISH    AND    OYSTERS 

slice,  and  fasten  with  a  little  skewer  (tooth-picks  are  the 
best).  Cook  just  long  enough  in  a  frying-pan  to  crisp  the 
bacon — about  two  minutes.  Place  on  slices  of  toast.  Do 
not  remove  the  skewer.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Creamed    Oysters 

Two  quarts  of  oysters,  washed  and  dried  in  a  towel. 
1  cup  of  milk,  thickened  to  the  consistency  of  cream, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  1  cup  of  sweet  cream.  Pour  dressing 
over  oysters  after  they  have  steamed  until  they  begin 
to  curl.  When  nearly  ready  to  serve,  dot  with  lumps  of 
butter.  Mrs.   W.  H.  Eldred. 

Oyster  Patties 

One  pint  of  small  oysters,  \  pint  cream,  1  large  tea- 
spoon of  flour.  Let  the  cream  come  to  a  boil,  mix  the  flour 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  cream. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  while  the  cream  is  cooking. 
Let  the  oysters  heat  in  their  own  liquor,  skim  carefully, 
and  strain  off  all  the  liquor.  Add  the  oysters  to  the  cream, 
and  boil  once.  Fill  the  pattie  shells,  and  serve.  The 
quantity  given  will  fill  18  shells. 

Mrs.  Thorp,  Detroit. 


MEATS 


"Man  wants  but  little  here  below, 
As  beef,  veal,  mutton,  pork,  lamb,  venison  show." 

Suggestions  For  Baking  Meat  or  Tame  Fowl 

Do  not  season,  or  put  water  in  the  dripper  for  30  min- 
utes, after  placing  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Then  season  well, 
add  hot  water,  and  bake  slowly,  basting  often.  Meats 
baked  in  this  manner  retain  all  their  juices,  instead  of 
being  drawn  out  by  steam  and  salt. 

Mrs.  B.  T.  Skinner. 

Yorkshire  Pudding 

TO  RE  SERVED  WITH  ROAST  MEAT. 

Four  eggs  beaten  very  light,  a  pinch  of  salt,  12  heaping 
tablespoons  of  flour,  1  pint  of  milk;  beat  part  of  the  flour 
with  the  eggs,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  milk 
gradually.  Bake  with  the  meat  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
before  the  roast  is  done.  May  be  baked  without  meat  by 
putting  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  the  drippings  from  the  meat 
in  a  pan,  and  when  hot  pour  in  the  batter,  basting  oc- 
casionally. Cut  in  squares  and  serve  on  the  platter  with 
the  roast. 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions 

Grease  a  hot  spider  with  butter  or  the  suet  from  the 
meat,  and  fry  the  steak  until  half  done;  then  cover  very 
thickly  with  sliced  onion,  season  very  well  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  put  a  little  water  in  the  spider  to 
prevent  burning;  cover  closely  and  set  where  they  will 


18  MEATS 

cook  more  moderately.  If  not  cooking  fast  enough,  turn 
the  meat  so  the  onions  will  come  to  the  bottom.  Serve 
hot,  with  the  onions  on  top  the  steak. 

Mrs.  N.  A.  Osgood. 

Sirloin  Steak  With  Oyster  Sauce 

Let  your  oysters  fry  a  few  minutes  in  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  a  little  flour,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  with 
enough  water  to  make  the  quantity  of  sauce  desired.  Stir 
till  the  oysters  are  done.  Serve  with  broiled  steak. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Hulrert. 

Beef  Loaf  (Small) 

One-half  pound  beef  (cut  from  top  of  round),  put 
twice  through  grinder  (using  fat  that  is  on  it)  and  also 
small  piece  of  onion.  Mix  with  this  about  half  the 
bulk  of  dry  bread  crumbs  (barely  moistened).  Add  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  1  egg 
beaten  slightly.  Mix  thoroughly  using  about  \  cup  milk. 
Shape  into  an  oval  loaf  and  bake  in  buttered  pan  1  hour. 
Baste  with  1  tablespoon  butter  melted  in  \  cup  hot 
water.  Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 

Beef  Loaf 

Take  3  pounds  of  raw  beef  steak,  off  the  round.  Chop 
very  fine.  One  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
10  tablespoons  of  rolled  crackers,  1  cup  of  milk  (partly 
cream  if  possible),  \  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs.  Season  with 
sage.  Put  in  a  deep  narrow  tin,  pour  over  it  a  little  water 
and  bake  about  1  hour. 

Miss  Carrie  McFarland. 


Meats  10 

Meat  Loaf 

One  pound  chopped  veal,  1  pound  chopped  beef,  1 
pound  chopped  lean  fresh  pork,  3  large  slices  bread, 
soaked  in  milk  (about  1  pint)  until  soft,  1  egg,  2  table- 
spoons salt,  \  tablespoon  pepper.  Bake  about  2  hours. 
Sliced  tomatoes  and  onion  baked  on  top  much  improves 
this  loaf.  Mrs.  Evan  Hubbard. 

Baked  Chops 

Dip  lamb  chops  in  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  dripper  and 
bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Ward. 

Breaded  Veal 

Pound  veal  cutlets;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip 
in  the  white  of  egg ;  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs ;  and  fry 
slowly  for  half  an  hour  in  a  very  hot  spider,  with  equal 
quantities  of  lard  and  butter.  Keep  covered  closely; 
turn  only  once.  Mrs.   Amalie  Burgee. 

Veal  Loaf 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  veal,  free  from  bone, 
chopped  fine.  Add  to  it  3  well  beaten  eggs,  1  \  tablespoons 
of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  pepper,  4  crackers  rolled  fine, 
3  tablespoons  of  milk,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  Stir  well  together,  make  into  the  form  of  a  loaf 
and  bake  2  hours,  basting  frequently. 

Miss  Emma  Watts. 

C(V    TTk /%**»<«*         The  Watchman  of  Main  Street 
.(dr.  UDOma  9  West  Main  St. 


20  MEATS 

Veal  Loaf 

Three  pounds  raw  veal,  and  \  pound  salt  pork,  chopped 
and  mixed;  3  soda  crackers,  3  eggs,  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Make  into  a  loaf  after  mixing  well  together.  But- 
ter the  outside  well,  and  sprinkle  with  crumbs  of  crackers. 
Bake  about  three  hours;  baste  as  often  as  needed. 

Mrs.  Jos.  Weeks. 
Pressed   Veal 

Boil  until  thoroughly  done,  3  pounds  of  veal  and  1 
pound  of  salt  pork  (with  lean  and  rind  removed),  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  then  chop  very  fine. 

Dressing. — Use  1  cup  of  the  liquid,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  2  well  beaten 
eggs.  Boil  2  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  to  keep  it 
smooth.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  necessary.  Pour 
over  the  chopped  meat,  and  mix  well.  If  desired,  the 
juice  of  |  lemon  may  be  added.   Place  in  pan  and  press. 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Flagg. 

Calf's  Liver  Baked 

Soak  a  calf's  liver  in  salt  water  for  a  few  moments. 
Skewer  with  bacon  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  onion. 
Place  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  and  butter  and  bake  one 
hour  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  frequently.  Use  browned  flour 
for  the  gravy.  Pour  gravy  over  the  liver  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

[WEIMANj    Coats  =  Suits  =  Dresses = Millinery 


MEATS  21 

Lamb  Cutlets  Crumbed 

Season  French  chops  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  in 
melted  butter,  and  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Broil  over 
a  moderate  fire.  Serve  with  potato  balls  heaped  in  center 
of  dish.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Reed  Stuart. 

Sweet-Breads 

Slowly  soak  in  strong  salt  water  until  the  blood  sepa- 
rates from  the  meat.  Place  in  boiling  water  to  blanche 
and  harden.  After  which  draw  off  the  thin  outer  casing, 
remove  any  little  pipes  that  may  adhear,  and  cut  into 
strips.  Lay  on  ice  until  ready  to  use,  and  then  dip  in  egg, 
and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Salt,  pepper,  and  fry  slowly  in 
butter.  They  burn  easily.        Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Pressed  Tongue 

Cover  a  large  beef  tongue  with  cold  water.  Put  on  the 
stove,  and  let  simmer  4  hours.  Take  up  and  cool.  Boil 
the  liquor  until  reduced  to  a  pint.  Chop  tongue  in  small 
pieces,  and  add  to  it  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  small  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  §  spoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  allspice, 
and  white  pepper,  |  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves  and  ground 
mace.  Mix  well,  and  press  in  square  tin.  Pour  over  this 
the  boiling  liquid,  with  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar  added. 
Set  away  for  10  hours.    Slice  thin  when  served. 

Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Howes. 

French  Tongue 

Put  in  a  kettle  1  fresh  tongue,  1|  pounds  of  beef,  1 
dozen  cloves,  1  dozen  allspice,  1  dozen  pepper-corns,  and 


22  MEATS 

boil  until  the  tongue  is  ready  to  skim.  Take  the  tongue 
out,  and  strain  the  stock,  then  return  the  tongue,  and 
let  it  simmer  until  very  tender,  and  there  is  left  about 
1  pint  of  stock.  Thicken  this  with  browned  flour,  and 
add  5  or  6  pickles,  chopped  fine,  and  one  wine-glass  of 
currant  jelly.  Pour  over  tongue,  which  is  placed  on  a 
platter  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon.  The  tongue  should 
cook  nearly  1|  days,  until  very  dark. 

Mrs.  Belle  H.  Ward. 

Meat  Souffle 

A  good  way  to  use  scraps  of  cold  beef,  ham  or  fowl, 
which  have  been  boiled,  fried  or  roasted.  Make  1  cup  of 
cream  sauce  as  follows:  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  teaspoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  butter 
and  flour  together,  then  slowly  stir  in  the  milk.  Season 
with  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  or  celery  tops  and 
a  little  chopped  onion.  Stir  into  this  sauce  1  cup  of 
chopped  meat  or  fowl;  when  well  mixed,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Cook  one  minute  and  set  away  to  cool; 
then  stir  in  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pud- 
ding dish  20  minutes. 

Pot-Pie  Dumpling 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt.  Mix  with  water  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred 
and  drop  into  the  kettle  with  a  spoon.  Boil  20  minutes 
without  removing  cover.  Miss  Anna  Etzcorn. 

Roast   Veal 

Put  into  small  frying  pan  1  tablespoon  butter,  and 
fry  a  finely  chopped  onion.     Rub  veal  with  teaspoon 


MEATS  23 

ginger  and  sear  in  pan  with  onions,  add  a  little  salt 
and  tablespoon  flour.  Place  hot  in  roasting  pan,  pour 
over  dressing.  When  done  make  gravy  by  pouring  water 
into  pan  and  thicken  with  flour.  Can  add  to  abo\e, 
cooked  rice  §  hour  before  meat  is  done,  and  baste  with 
juices  of  meat  or  use  cooked  macaroni,  drained  and  place 
round  meat  in  platter.  Have  ready  tomato  sauce  and 
grated  cheese,  pour  over  and  place  in  oven  3  or  4  minutes 
and  serve.  Chili  sauce  can  be  used  in  place  of  tomato 
sauce.  Miss  Orpha  Plaisted. 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef 

Dredge  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  put 
without  water  in  a  small  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven  30 
minutes  for  four  pounds,  which  will  serve  twelve  people. 
Serve   with  mushroom,    Hollandaise  or   tomato  sauce. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce:  One  can  French  mush- 
rooms, 2  cups  stock,  2  tablespoons  flour,  4  tablespoons 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter.  Add  the 
flour  and  stir  until  a  dark  brown.  Gradually  add  the 
stock.  When  this  boils  add  the  mushroom  liquor. 
Season  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Skim  off  grease.  Add 
mushrooms  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Too  much  cooking 
toughens  mushrooms.       Mrs.  Nellie  P.  Hawxhurst 

Breaded  Veal 

One  slice  of  veal,  cut  1  inch  thick,  1  egg,  bread  crumbs, 
milk,  onion,  green  pepper.    Mix  the  egg  with  one  table- 

s,  Stationery  and  School  Supplies  ■  Fishers 


24  MEATS 

spoon  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  veal  first  in  the  egg 
and  then  in  the  bread  crumbs.  Brown  well  in  a  frying 
pan.  Put  in  a  baking  dish.  Cover  with  milk.  Add  a 
little  onion  and  green  pepper.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.  Mrs.  Balph  W.  Harbert. 

Smothered  Veal 

Order  round  of  veal,  about  2  inches  thick.  Cut  in 
chunks  for  serving  each  person.  Boll  in  flour  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  quickly  in  frying  pan, 
using  part  butter  and  part  lard,  remove  from  pan  when 
brown.  Put  in  covered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  well  with 
flour,  and  fill  dish  with  hot  water  nearly  covering  the 
meat.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  tender,  about  \\ 
hours.  4  pounds  will  serve  ten  to  twelve  people.  Serve 
with  gravy  left  in  bake  dish. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Hoffmaster. 

Meat  Loaf 

Two  pounds  fresh  pork  (shoulder)  and  1  pound 
smoked  ham  put  through  grinder;  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
crumbs,  2  eggs,  little  pepper  (no  salt  as  ham  is  salty). 
Place  in  pan,  then  pour  over  it  a  small  can  tomato  soup 
and  bake  an  hour  or  little  longer.   Mrs.  C.  P.  Baker. 

Baked  Ham 

Take  6  or  7  pounds  of  ham,  put  about  1  dozen  cloves 
in  it.  Make  a  stiff  dough  of  flour  and  water,  sufficient 
after  rolling  out  to  cover  the  ham  all  over.  Put  ham  in 
baker  with  a  little  water  and  bake  4  hours  slowly. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Green. 


MEATS  25 

Ham 

Slice  of  ham  cat  one  inch  thick.  Rub  each  side  with 
dry  mustard  and  quite  a  little  brown  sugar.  Place  in 
dripping  pan  and  baste  with  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar 
and  two  of  water.  Bake  40  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Serve 
with  gravy  poured  over,  not  thickened. 

Mrs.  Bertha  Bush  Minahan,  Green  Bay,  Wis. 

Ham  In  Olive  Sauce 

Take  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  ham  cut  in  quarter  inch 
pieces.  Brown  2  tablespoons  butter  and  3  tablespoons 
flour.  Add  1|  cups  stock  or  water,  2  small  onions  cut 
very  fine;  \  green  pepper  sliced  thin,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  until  thick.  Add  ham  and  \  cup  pimento  olives 
sliced.  Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harbert. 

A  Substitute  For  Meat 
Protose  Steak  With  Onions 

One  pound  Protose,  1  c.  grated  onion,  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  brown  sauce,  \ 
cup  water.  Remove  the  protose  from  the  can,  cut  in 
half  lengthwise,  and  make  six  or  eight  slices  of  each  half, 
Arrange  these  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pan.  Mix 
the  melted  butter  and  salt  with  the  grated  onion.  On 
top  of  each  slice  of  Protose  put  a  spoonful  of  the  grated 
onion.  Dilute  the  brown  sauce  with  the  water  and  pour 
around  the  Protose,  taking  care  not  to  disturb  the  onions. 
Place  in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  45  minutes  to  one 
hour,  or  until  the  onions  are  perfectly  tender. 

Courtesy  The  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS 


Brown  Sauce 

One-quarter  cup  flour,  I  cup  butter,  1-3  cup  strong 
cereal  coffee,  §  cup  strained  tomatoes  or  2  tablespoons 
condensed  tomato,  \\  cups  water,  \  teaspoon  salt,  2 
teaspoons  Savita.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together. 
Heat  the  liquids  but  not  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  salt 
and  strained  tomato.  Pour  the  hot  liquids  over  the 
flour  and  butter,  stirring  meanwhile.  Add  Savita  and 
let  boil  five  minutes. 

Courtesy  The  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 

Horse  Radish  Sauce  to  Serve  With  Ham 

One  tablespoon  butter.  Melt  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  1  cup  milk.  Cook  until  thick  in  double  boiler. 
Add  \  bottle  grated  horse  radish,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  sugar.  Mrs.  T.  H.  Morgan. 

Hollandaise  Sauce 

One-half  cup  butter  creamed, add  4  egg  yolks,  one  by 
one,  cook  in  double  boiler,  add  \\  tablespoons  lemon 
juice,  \  teaspoon  salt,  dash  cayenne,  1  cup  boiling  water. 
Stir  and  cook  until  creamy  and  smooth. 

HAWLEY  &  FAY  The  Cliff  Street  Grocery 

PHONE  875       -       -       274  CLIFF  ST, 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  27 

Mint  Sauce 

Two  teaspoons  fresh  mint  chopped,  1  cup  boiling 
water,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  vinegar.  Pour 
water  over  mint,  add  sugar  and  vinegar,  boil,  then 
cool  and  serve. 

Creole  Dressing 

Yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  \  teaspoon  red  pepper, 
1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  salt,  \  cup  powdered 
sugar,  I  cup  oil,  \  cup  vinegar,  1  chopped  onion.  Pre- 
pare two  or  three  hours  before  serving.  Serve  with 
steak  or  other  meats.       Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME 


"And  when  the  pie  was  opened, 

The  birds  began  to  sing; 

And  is  not  this  a  dainty  dish 

To  set  before  the  king?" 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken 

Cut  up  chicken  and  crush  bones  to  make  the  pieces  lie 
flat.  Broil  over  a  clear  fire  about  two  hours  before  serv- 
ing. Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Pack  in  an 
oatmeal  boiler,  sprinkle  in  a  tablespoon  of  Worchester- 
shire  sauce,  cover  closely,  and  cook  till  time  to  serve. 
This  renders  the  fowl  perfectly  well  done,  and  is  delicious. 
An  ordinary  steamer  can  be  used,  provided  the  chicken 
is  put  into  a  covered  dish  so  the  steam  cannot  touch  it. 

Mrs.  Emma  G.  Harbeck. 

Broiled  or  Smothered  Chicken 

Cut  chicken  in  quarters.  Lay  in  a  dripping  pan. 
Sprinkle  with  salt;  pepper  well;  dredge  with  flour;  put 
small  bits  of  butter  over  all,  allowing  pieces  the  size  of 
an  egg  to  each  chicken.  Cover  close  with  another  pan. 
Bake  40  minutes,  then  remove  pan,  and  bake  with  brisk 
fire  until  brown.  Mrs.  Howard  Kingman. 

Broiled   Birds 

Place  the  birds  (cut  open)  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  prepared  a  dish  of  hot  water, 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper;  and  when  the  birds  begin  to 


Poultry  and  game  29 

brown,  dip  them  in  it,  and  place  again  over  the  fire.  Re- 
peat the  process  until  the  birds  seem  thoroughly  cooked, 
which  will  require  20  minutes  or  \  hour.  Thicken  the 
dish  of  hot  water,  pepper,  and  salt,  with  flour,  and  pour 
over  the  game.  Mrs.  C.  M.  Leon. 

Fried  Spring  Chicken 

Joint  up  the  chickens,  and  throw  into  salt  and  water; 
let  stand  a  few  minutes,  rinse,  and  dry  in  a  cloth  like 
oysters.  Put  considerable  lard  in  a  frying  pan  until  very 
hot;  roll  the  chicken  in  flour,  pepper,  and  salt  mixed 
together;  put  in  frying  pan,  and  cover  close;  turn  often 
and  all  ways.  Be  careful  the  lard  does  not  cook  out. 

Gravy. — Put  to  the  lard  a  very  little  water  and  £ 
cup  of  cream.  When  it  boils,  thicken  with  flour  wet 
with  cold  milk.  Miss  Olivia  S.  Hinman. 

Sauce  for  Fried  Chicken 

One-half  teacup  of  butter,  juice  of  \  a  lemon,  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  \  cup  of  boiling  water, 
\  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  yolks  one 
at  a  time,  the  lemon  juice,  pepper,  and  salt.  Place  the 
bowl  with  the  mixture  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  sauce  begins  to  thicken, 
and  add  the  boiling  water,  beating  all  the  time.  When 
like  a  soft  custard,  it  is  done.  Serve  in  gravy  dish,  or 
put  around  the  chicken  on  platter. 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Boughton. 

MRS.  CONNER,  China  Decorator 

FIRING  &  LESSONS  PARTY  NOVELTIES  PHONE  1418  F-2 


30  POULTRY   AND    GAME 

Chicken  Pie 

Crust. — One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  1  cup  of  lard,  salt,  and  milk  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Roll,  and  line  a  pan  with  the  paste.  Boil 
a  fowl  until  tender,  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones:  seas- 
on to  taste;  pour  in  the  pan  and  cover  with  a  top  crust; 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  f  of  an  hour.        Mrs.  0.  B.  Green 

Chicken  in  Jelly 

For  each  pound  of  chicken  allow  a  pint  of  water. 
When  boiling,  skim;  simmer  gently  until  meat  is  very 
tender.  Take  out  chicken,  skin,  and  take  all  of  the  flesh 
from  the  bones.  Put  bones  in  liquor,  and  boil  until 
water  is  reduced  one-half.  Strain,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Next  morning  skim  off  fat.  Turn  jelly  into  clean  sauce- 
pan, removing  sediment,  and  to  each  quart  of  jelly  add 
\  package  of  Knox  gelatine  (which  has  been  soaked 
an  hour  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water),  an  onion,  a  stalk 
of  celery,  12  peppercorns,  a  small  piece  of  mace,  4 
cloves,  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  white  of  one  egg.  Let 
it  boil,  then  set  back  where  it  will  simmer  20  minutes. 
Strain  the  jelly  through  a  napkin.  In  a  3  pint  mould 
put  a  layer  of  jelly  about  f  of  an  inch  deep,  and  set  in 
ice  water  to  harden.  Have  the  chicken  cut  in  long  thin 
strips,  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
jelly  in  mould  is  hard,  lay  in  chicken,  and  cover  with  the 
liquid  jelly  which  must  be  cool,  but  not  hard.  Put  away 
to  harden.  When  ready  to  serve,  dip  the  mould  into 
warm  water,  and  turn  into  the  center  of  a  flat  dish.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley,  and  if  you  choose,  with  mayonnaise 
sauce.  Mrs.  A.  T.  Penniman. 


POULTRY    AND    GAME 


31 


Scalloped  Chicken 

One  cooked  chicken,  1  cup  of  gravy,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  or  rolled 
crackers,  salt  and  pepper.  Rid  the  chicken  of  skin  and 
bones;  cut  or  chop  into  pieces,  thicken  the  gravy,  and  stir 
until  the  chicken  boils;  take  it  off  and  add  the  egg;  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  crumbs;  pour  the  gravy  and 
chopped  chicken  in;  cover  with  crumbs  and  pieces  of 
butter.    Warm  over  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  R.  Williams. 

Chicken   Souffle 

One  pint  of  cooked  chicken  finely  chopped,  1  pint  of 
cream  sauce,  4  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  the  chicken 
and  seasoning  into  the  boiling  sauce,  cook  two  minutes, 
add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  set  away  to 
cool;  when  cold,  add  the  whites  well  beaten,  turn  into 
a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  \  hour.  Serve  hot.  Can  use 
veal  or  beef. 

Cream  Sauce  for  SouFFLE.—One  cup  of  milk,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,,  salt,  and  pepper.  Put  butter  in  small 
fryingpan.  When  hot,  but  not  brown,  add  2  table- 
spoons flour;  stir  until  smooth;  then  gradually  add  the 
milk.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Use  cream  instead  of  milk  if 
you  have  it.  Mrs.  T.  M.  Flower. 

Creamed  Chicken 

One  chicken  of  4^  pounds  or  2  of  6  pounds,  4  sweet- 
breads, and  1  can  of  mushrooms.  Roil  chicken  and  sweet- 
breads and  when  cold,  cut  up  as  for  salad.  In  a  sauce- 
pan, put  4  coffee  cups  or  1    quart    cream;  in  another,  4 


32  POULTRY   AND   GAME 

large  tablespoons  butter,  and  5  even  ones  of  flour;  stir 
until  melted,  then  pour  on  the  hot  cream,  stirring  until 
it  thickens.  Flavor  with  a  small  half  of  a  grated  onion, 
and  a  very  little  grated  nutmeg;  season  highly  with 
black  and  red  pepper.  Put  chicken  and  ingredients, 
together  with  sweet-breads  and  mushrooms  (which  if 
large  should  be  cut  in  4  pieces),  in  a  baking  dish,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake 
20  minutes.  It  can  be  made  without  sweet-breads  by 
using  more  chicken,  but  is  not  as  good.  Serves  sixteen 
persons.  Mrs.  Belle  H.  Ward,  Evanston,  III. 

Chop  Suey 

Saute  in  a  tablespoon  of  shortening  for  five  minutes 
in  the  order  named  below,  then  skim  into  a  kettle: 
1  chopped  onion,  the  meat  of  a  chicken  cut  in  small 
pieces,  1  can  mushrooms,  1  cup  celery  cut  quite  fine. 
Rinse  spider  with  a  little  hot  water,  and  add  to  the  kettle 
and  cook  two  or  three  hours.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Just  before  serving  add  1  tablespoon  kitchen 
bouquet.    Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Mrs.   C.   A.   Squier. 

Chicken  A  La  King 

One  chicken  cut  up  fine,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  4  green 
peppers,  2  pimentos,  1  can  mushrooms,  |  teaspoon 
paprika,   \  teaspoon  salt,  £  teaspoon  pepper,    2  table- 

KEAGLE  SHOE  REPAIR 

97  Calhoun  St.  Phone  1637J 


POULTRY   AND   GAME  33 

spoons  melted  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  pint  milk, 
1  pint  cream.  Make  cream  sauce  of  milk,  cream,  butter 
and  flour  add  cooked  chicken,  and  other  ingredients 
and  cook  in  double  cooker. 

Mrs.   J.   N.   Decker. 

Chicken  Mousse 

Cook  a  chicken  and  run  through  food  chopper  or 
grinder.  Dissolve  1  level  tablespoon  of  Knox  gelatine  in 
|  cup  of  the  chicken  broth.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Into  them  pour  slowly  1  cup  of  hot  broth  and  cook  in 
double  cooker  until  thick.  Put  this  with  the  gelatine 
and  beat  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add  this  to  the 
chicken  and  when  cold  fold  in  one  pint  of  whipped 
cream.  Put  into  mould  to  set.  Serve  on  lettuce  with 
salad  dressing  or  as  pressed  chicken. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Decker. 


VEGETABLES 


"Take  the  goods  the  gods  provide  thee  I" 

Real  Boston  Baked  Beans 

Two  cups  beans,  soak  over  night.  Boil  in  fresh 
water  until  skins  separate.  Place  in  deep  earthenware 
pot  and  add  1  level  teaspoon ful  of  powdered  mustard, 
a  pinch  of  soda  and  2  tablespoons  of  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses. Put  one  whole  onion  in  the  center  of  the  beans 
and  \  to  f  pound  of  lean  salt  pork  on  top  of  the  beans 
with  rinds  up  to  brown  with  the  beans.  Bake  8  hours 
in  a  slow  oven.  When  done  skim  off  the  top  beans 
and  serve  hot  with  brown  bread  and  dill  pickles  on 
Saturday  night.  Carleton  Brooks  Miller. 

Baked  Potatoes 

Pare  and  slice  \  dozen  potatoes  about  \  inch  thick. 
Grease  a  small  dripper  with  butter,  leaving  a  little  in  the 
tin.  Salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  slices  of  potatoes.  Put 
in  the  tin  and  bake.  Salt,  pepper,  and  butter  again.  Put 
in  a  covered  tureen,  and  serve.     Mrs.  N.  A.  Osgood. 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Boil  with  the  skins  on.  When  done,  remove  the  skins; 
mash,  add  butter,  salt,  and  milk,  the  same  as  for  white 
potatoes.  Put  in  baking  dish,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 

Mrs,  Edward  C.  Hinman. 


VEGETABLES  35 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Steam  the  potatoes  until  nearly  done;  take  out;  peel 
them;  place  them  in  a  dripping  pan.  with  a  small  lump 
of  butter  on  each;  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Select  small  sweet  potatoes,  and  scrape  well.  Roll  in 
flour  and  sugar,  and  bake  slowly  in  a  pan  with  melted 
butter,  turning  frequently.  They  will  scrape  more  readily 
if  allowed  to  soak  in  water  an  hour  or  more. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Sweet  Potatoes  With  Mar shm allows. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  with  jackets  on,  peel,  mash,  and 
add  top  milk,  a  little  sugar,  butter  and  if  desired  black 
walnut  meats.  Put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  mash- 
mallows  and  let  brown  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 

Sweet  Potatoes  With  Almonds 

Mash  sufficient  sweet  potatoes  for  six  persons.  Add  1 
cup  sweet  cream  and  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  baking 
dish  and  cover  with  a  very  thick  layer  of  chopped 
almonds.     Bake  until  brown  and  crisp. 

Mrs.  C.  G.  Wencke. 

Potatoes  Anna 
Peel  and  slice  potatoes  into  baking  dish  with  a  little 
salt,  pepper,  flour  and  butter  between  layers  (onions  if 
desired).  Barely  cover  with  water  and  let  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  about  an  hour.  Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 


36  VEGETABLES 

Potato  Souffle 

Take  large  smooth  potatoes,  \  cup  of  boiling  milk,  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  the  whites  of  4  eggs.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  In  washing  potatoes,  be  careful  not  to 
break  the  skin.  Bake  them  45  minutes;  take  from  the 
oven,  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise;  scoop  with  a 
spoon,  and  put  in  a  hot  bowl.  Mash  light  and  fine:  add 
the  butter,  milk,  and  \  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Fill  the 
skins  with  the  mixture,  cover  with  remaining  white  of 
eggs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Maude  C.  Ward. 

Parsley  Dressing  for  Potatoes 

Seven  melted  teaspoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  lemon 
juice,  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley,  \  spoon  salt.  Pour 
over  diced,  ball  or  new  potatoes. 

Saratoga  Potatoes 
Peel  potatoes,  and  slice  them  thin  on  a  slicer.     Let 
stand  for  several  hours  in  cold  water.    Drain  well,  and 
dry  on  a  towel.   Fry  a  few  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard  until 
crisp.   Take  out,  drain  on   a  cloth,  and  salt. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Leon. 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Take  round,  firm  tomatoes,  cut  a  hole  in  the  top  of  each 
and  scoop  out  the  inside.  Chop  an  onion,  and  put  to  sim- 
mer in  a  little  butter.  When  slightly  colored,  add  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs  previously  wet  in  water,  chopped  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper.    Mix  well  together;  fill  the  inside  of  the 

M1DT   MOD   PICTURES  &  FRAMES        ALL  KINDS  OF  GIFT  NOVELTIES 
AKI     JllVr  17  NORTH  McCAMLY         PHONE  1418 


VEGETABLES  37 

tomatoes;  sprinkle  the  tops  with  bread  crumbs,  and  a 
little  melted  butter;  bake  slowly  to  a  light  brown,  and 
thoroughly.  Mrs.  Edward  C.  Hinman 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Cut  a  good  slice  from  the  blossom  end  of  tomatoes. 
Cut  across  in  two  or  three  places  deep  enough  to  hold 
a  large  tablespoon  of  mixed  and  chopped  green  pepper, 
onion  and  parsley.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  an  hour, 
with  piece  of  butter  and  salt  on  top.  Have  slices  of  toast 
ready  to  put  tomatoes  on.  Add  pieces  of  butter  and 
cream  to  the  liquor  left  in  pan,  thicken  with  flour,  and 
pour  this  cream  sauce  over  tomatoes. 

Mrs.  Nellie  P.  Hawxhurst. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Scald  and  peel  ripe  tomatoes;  cut  into  slices,  and  re- 
move seeds.  Butter  an  earthen  baking  dish,  put  in  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  sprinkling  with  pepper  and  salt, 
then  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter. 
Alternate  these,  until  dish  is  full,  the  top  being  bread 
crumbs.    Bake  §  hour  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Hawxhurst. 

Delmonico  Tomatoes 

Pare  the  tomatoes  and  cut  out  the  center;  fill  the 

opening  with  grated  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  butter, 

salt,  and  pepper,  a  little  onion  if  desired.     Bake  until 

done.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Earle. 

Fried  Tomatoes 

Remove  the  stem  from  tomatoes;  do  not  peel;  cut 
slices  \  inches  thick;  pepper  and  salt  both  sides,  laying 


38  VEGETABLES 

in  single  slices  on  a  plate.  Let  stand  1  or  2  hours.  The 
salt  hardens.  Dip  in  egg  and  cracker,  or  flour  them,  and 
fry  in  butter  or  lard.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  juice  that  is 
left,  with  the  egg,  a  little  salt  and  water,  and  pour  over 
them.      For  breakfast,  slice  at  night. 

Mrs.  Clelle  Humphrey  White 

Scalloped  Corn 

One  cup  canned  corn,  1  green  pepper,   \  an  onion, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  \  cup  milk,  \  cup  dry  bread  broken  in 
small  pieces,  \  cup  cracker  crumbs  ,2  tablespoons  butter, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  \  teaspoon  paprika,  1  egg  yolk. 
Wipe  pepper  and  cut  in  small  strips.  Cook  pepper, 
onion  and  butter  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
flour  mixed  with  seasoning.  Stir  until  well  blended. 
Gradually  pour  on  milk.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  add 
corn,  egg  yolk  and  bread.  Turn  into  baking  dish,  cover 
with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
firm  and  brown  on  top.       Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Scalloped  Cauliflower 

Take  off  the  green  leaves,  and  soak  in  salt  and  water  1 
or  2  hours.  Boil  1  hour  in  salt  water,  drain,  and  break 
apart.  Put  a  layer  of  cauliflower  in  a  baking  dish, 
moisten  it  with  cream  sauce,  and  sprinkle  in  a  little 
grated  cheese,  another  layer  of  cauliflower,  etc.,  until  all 
is  used.  There  should  be  2  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese 
and  1  pint  of  sauce  to  each  head  of  cauliflower.  Cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  cheese,  and  dot  with  bits  of 
butter.    Bake  \  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Sauce. — One  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  1  table- 


Vegetables  39 

Spoon  of  butter.  Melt  the  butter,  then  add  the  flour. 
Stir  until  smooth;  gradually  add  the  milk.  Let  boil 
once.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Hawxhurst. 

Scalloped  Cabbage 

Boil  a  firm,  white  cabbage  until  tender  in  salted  water. 
When  cold,  chop,  rejecting  the  coarser  portions.  Beat  3 
eggs  thoroughly,  adding  1  pint  of  sweet  cream  or  rich 
milk.  Put  the  chopped  cabbage  into  a  pudding  dish, 
seasoning  to  taste  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  bits  of 
butter.  Pour  over  it  the  milk  and  eggs,  and  cover  the 
top  with  rolled  crackers  moistened  with  milk  and  dotted 
with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  for  \  hour,  closely  covered, 
removing  the  cover  for  |  hour  to  brown.  Serve  in  baking 
dish.  Mrs.  Preston  Lovell. 

Cabbage  Dressing  for  Hot  Slaw 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  \  scant  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of 
vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  §  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  until  it 
boils,  then  stir  in  1  cup  of  cream  and  let  it  boil  once  more. 
Pour  over  the  cabbage  while  hot.   Mrs.  G.  C.  Sterling. 

Cabbage  With  Apples 

Take  rather  a  small  cabbage,  cut  out  the  center,  and 
stuff  with  apple,  quartered,  tie  in  a  cloth  and  boil  until 
tender.  Place  in  dish  and  turn  over  it  the  sauce  given 
in  Mrs.  Sterling's  Hot  Slaw.  Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 


SCALP  &  FACIAL  Electrical  Treatments.  SHAMPOOING  &  MANICURING 

75  West  Main  Street.    ffTU*   '3fTv^;+~     <S;L^.^  Marcel  Waving 

Bell  Phone  2563  ®¥    Psnty   ^i]OXi  A  Specialty 


40  VEGETABLES 

Fried  Egg  Plant 

Slice  the  egg  plant,  and  cover  with  cold  water  and  salt 
for  I  hour  or  more.  Then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs.    Fry  like  oysters.       Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

To  Fry  Parsnips 

Cut  in  small  squares,  and  fry  in  basket  the  same  as 
croquettes.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Scalloped  Onions 

Cut  8  or  10  good  sized  onions  in  slices  £  inch  thick. 
Boil  until  nearly  done,  drain  thoroughly.  Put  a  layer  of 
onions  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
white  sauce,  alternating  until  both  are  used.  Sprinkle 
the  top  layer  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter. 
The  white  sauce  should  be  rich  and  made  by  adding 
flour  to  melted  butter,  then  add  rich  milk  or  cream. 
Bake  20  minutes.  Mrs.  F.  H.  Bodman. 

French  Fried  Onions 

Take  Spanish  or  Bermuda  onions.  Slice,  separate 
rings  and  soak  in  milk  1  hour.  Drain  and  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt.  Dredge  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  brown  paper.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Nettels. 

Baked  Summer  Squash 

Cut  squash  in  pieces  and  remove  the  rind.  Boil  until 
tender,  then  mash.  Add  1  beaten  egg,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  salt,  paprika  and  f  cup  bread  crumbs.  Put  in 
buttered  dish,  cover  with  crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes. 

Miss  Mary  Browning. 


VEGETABLES  41 

Baked  Celery 

Cut  into  small  pieces  1  quart  celery,  and  cook  until 
very  soft  in  salted  water.  Place  celery  in  baking  dish. 
Thicken  (with  flour)  the  water  in  which  celery  Was  cook- 
ed. Add  1  large  tablespoon  butter.  Make  quite  thick.  Pour 
over  celery,  and  cover  top  with  crumbs  &  2  tablespoons 
grated  cheese.  Bake  15  minutes.  Mrs.  N.  E.  Hubbard. 

Corn   Fritters 

Grate  6  ears  of  corn,  add  1  egg,l  tablespoon  of  cream 
or  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fry  in 
boiling  lard,  a  spoonful  at  a  time. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Spinach 

Boil  the  spinach  in  salt  and  water  until  tender  (about 
20  minutes).  Drain  in  a  colander  and  chop  fine.  Season 
well  with  pepper  and  salt.  For  each  quart  of  the  chopped 
spinach,  put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  in  a 
frying-pan.  When  this  has  cooked  smooth,  without 
browning,  add  the  spinach.  Stir  for  5  minutes,  then  add 
I  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  stir  3  minutes.  Garnish  with 
slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  N.  P.  Hawxhurst. 

Dressing  for  Spinach 

For  2  pounds  of  spinach,  take  \  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
\  teaspoon  pepper  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  grated 
horse  radish,  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat 
and  place  in  it  the  drained  spinach  and  serve  at  once 

Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 


42  VEGETABLES 

Spinach  Souffle 

Cook  1  peck  spinach,  chop  and  sprinkle  with  flour. 
I  cup  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  2  cups  milk  and 
cream  mixed,  salt,  pepper  and  2  eggs  beaten,  |  cup 
melted  butter.  Add  eggs  and  milk  to  crumbs,  spinach, 
lastly  butter.    Bake  f  hour. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Hawk. 

Asparagus  Loaf 

Two  tablespoons  butter  and  2  tablespoons  flour 
cooked  together,  salt,  dash  cayenne,  1  cup  cream  added 
gradually.  When  smooth  add  1  cup  asparagus  (cooked) 
which  has  been  pressed  through  a  sieve  and  4  eggs  well 
beaten.  Save  asparagus  tips  to  line  the  sides  of  the  mold. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  quart  mold  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
30  minutes.   Serve  with  Bechamel  sauce. 

Mrs.  John  T.   Winship. 

Bechamel  Sauce 

Three  tablespoons  butter,  3  scant  tablespoons  flour, 
|  an  onion,  a  slice  of  carrot,  2  cups  white  stock,  1  cup 
cream,  salt,  2  sprigs  parsley,  1  sprig  thyme  and  bay  leaf. 
Tie  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf  together.  Rub  butter 
and  flour  to  a  paste.  Cook  all  ingredients  except  cream 
together  in  a  stew  pan.  Simmer  §  hour.  Add  cream. 
Let  come  to  a  boil.    Strain  and  serve. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

RattU  f  rook  T™  f  ah  (i\  passenger  &  baggage  service 

DdlllC  UCCn  IdAl  LdD  10.     all  Night  and  Day  Bell  Phone  371 


VEGETABLES 


Vegetable  Oysters 


43 


Cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil  in  salted  water  until 
tender.  Drain.  Make  a  cream  sauce  by  melting  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  to  which  add  1  large  tablespoon  of 
flour.  Add  gradually  1  cup  of  milk,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  mace  or  nutmeg.  Put  oysters  with 
sauce  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  cover  with  bread 
crumbs  \  inch  thick.    Bake  20  minutes,  or  until  brown. 

Bread  crumbs  should  be  kept  ready  for  use.  Dry  pieces 
of  bread  and  roll  fine.  When  needed,  moisten  with  melted 
butter.  Mrs.  F.  P.  Boughton. 

Vegetable  Oyster  Cakes 

One  cup  mashed  vegetable  oysters,  \  teaspoon  salt, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  \  teaspoon  pepper,  1  egg.  Add 
butter  and  seasoning  to  vegetable  oysters  while  hot. 
Mix  and  let  cool.  Add  egg.  Shape  about  size  of  oysters 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Miss  Virginia  Winship. 

Spanish  Rice 

Three  quarters  cup  rice,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  green 
peppers  and  2  onions  chopped,  1  pint  unstrained  tomato 
juice,  1|  cups  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  salt.  Cook 
about  one  hour  in  double  boiler.  Then  put  in  buttered 
baking  dish  with  cracker  crumbs  and  butter  or  grated 
cheese  over  the  top.   Bake. 

Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 

Rice 

One  cup  rice,  cooked,  add  rich  cream  sauce,  1  green 
pepper  chopped,   cheese  if  desired.      Put  in  buttered 


<* 


44  VEGETABLES 

baking  dish,  cover  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  butter. 
Heat.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Hawk. 

Hot  Dressing  For  Vegetables 

May  be  used  instead  of  cream  dressing  on  asparagus, 
carrots,  beans,  etc.  Butter  size  of  good  size  egg,  juice 
of  1  small  lemon.  Heat  with  the  vegetable  just  before 
serving.  Mrs.  Fred  W.  Gage. 


BREAD 


"Would  you  know  how  first  he  met  her? 
She  was  cutting  bread  and  butter." 

Quick  Yeast  and  Bread 

Twelve  medium-sized  potatoes  boiled  in  3  pints  of 
water.  Put  in  a  crock  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  of  sugar, 
and  1  of  salt.  Add  the  potatoes  which  have  been  put 
through  a  colander,  using  the  water  they  were  boiled  in, 
besides  3  pints  of  boiling  water.  When  cool  enough,  add 
2  Twin  Brothers'  Yeast  cakes,  which  have  been  dissolved 
in  \  cup  of  water.  Let  it  stand  over  night.  For  one  loaf 
of  bread,  use  1  \  cups  of  yeast  to  a  quart  of  flour.  Knead 
\  hour,  and  put  immediately  in  baking  tins  to  rise. 
When  light,  bake  the  usual  time. 

To  make  delicious  rolls,  take  quantity  for  one  loaf  of 
bread,  adding  §  cup  of  butter.  Knead  well,  and  cut  out, 
letting  rise  in  baking  tins.    Bake  when  light. 

Mrs.    C.   A.    Ward. 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

Two  yeast  cakes  (compressed)  dissolved  in  1  cup  luke 
warm  water.  Add  1  tablespoon  sugar,  \\  cups  white 
flour  to  make  sponge.  Let  rise  two  hours.  1  quart 
milk,  |  cup  water,  scant  \  cup  sugar,  \  cup  shortening 
1  tablespoon  (heaping)  salt.    Add  sponge.    8  cups  whole 

If  you    use  Titus  &  Hicks  GILT  EDGE  Flour,  for  Bread  and 
Rolls,  You  will  be  proud  of  your  baking. 


46  BREAD 

wheat  flour,  2  cups  white  flour.    Let  rise  and  use  white 
flour  to  make  into  loaves. 

Mrs.  A.  B.   Williams. 

Brown  Bread 

Scant  i  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  3  cups 
sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  3  teaspoons  soda,  2  teaspoons 
salt,  2  cups  white  flour,  3  cups  graham  flour,  \  cup 
walnut  meats,  \  box  raisins.  Bake  very  slowly  for  f  of  an 
hour,  then  faster  until  done. 

Mrs.  Fred  Holmes. 

Graham  Bran  Bread 

Mix  in  one  bowl: — 3  cups  of  bran,  3  cups  graham 
flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  level  tablespoon  salt,  1  level 
tablespoon  soda,  1  cup  sugar.  Beat  3  eggs  separately. 
Add  3  cups  buttermilk  and  f  cup  molasses  to  yolks. 
Beat.  Add  this  to  dry  ingredients.  Beat.  Add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  then  1  cup  raisins  or  dates, 
and  1  cup  walnut  meats.  Bake  one  or  one  and  one-fourth 
hours  slowly.    Makes  two  loaves. 

Mrs.  V.  Howard  Wattles. 

Rolls 

One  quart  sifted  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  lard.  Salt;  mix 
with  1  pint  boiling  milk.  Add  \  cup  of  yeast  when  luke- 
warm. Set  sponge  in  the  morning,  and  when  light,  knead, 
adding  sufficient  flour  to  make  stiff  as  biscuit.  When 
light,  shape  into  rolls.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Barber. 

BEST    BREAD    AT    LOWEST  PRICES 

AT  CARL  MOORES  44  South  Jefferson  Avenue 


BREAD  47 


Rolls 


Two  boiled  potatoes,  mashed,  2  eggs  beaten,  1  pint 
milk  scalded  and  cooled,  1  tablespoon  butter,  \  cup 
sugar  in  milk,  1  tablespoon  salt.  When  cool  add  1  cake 
compressed  yeast,  2  quarts  flour.  Put  part  of  flour  in 
bowl,  make  hole  in  center,  pour  in  liquid.  Put  a  little 
flour  on  top,  stir  in  but  leave  quite  soft.  Raise.  Stir 
all  of  the  flour  in,  knead  well.  Raise.  Make  in  rolls. 
Raise  and  bake.  Mrs.  W.  I.  Fell. 

Fruit  Bread 

When  bread  dough  is  ready  to  put  in  tins,  take  suffi- 
cient quantity  for  a  common  loaf.  Add  1  egg,  \  cup  of 
butter,  I  cup  of  stoned  and  chopped  raisins,  \  cup  of 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon;  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
dough,  and  knead  very  soft;  let  rise  again, and  bake  like 
bread.  Miss  Eliza  Cooley. 

Bread  Sticks 

Four  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  boiled  milk,  the  white  of  1  egg,  I  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve  the  butter 
in  the  milk,  which  have  blood  warm.  Beat  the  white  of 
the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  3  table- 
spoons of  cold  water.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients  to  the 
flour,  and  knead  well.  Let  the  dough  rise  over  night;  in 
the  morning,  make  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  large  Eng- 
lish walnut.    Roll  each  ball  into  a  stick  1  foot  long.    Use 

BEST  BREAD  AT  I^OWJBST  PRICB8 

AT  CARL  MOORES  44  South  Jefferson  Avenue 


48  BREAD 

the  moulding  board.  Place  the  sticks  2  inches  apart  in 
long  pans.  Let  rise  \  hour  in  a  cool  place,  and  bake  25 
minutes  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  Sticks  should  be  quite 
dry  and  crisp.    They  cannot  be  if  baked  rapidly. 

Miss  Julia  Hinman. 

Coffee  Bread 

Two  cups  of  sponge,  1  cup  of  milk,  \  cup  of  cream  or 
butter,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  2  eggs,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  When  light,  roll  out  in  loaves 
2  inches  thick.  (Knead  a  few  raisins  in  first  if  desired.) 
Put  in  pans,  and  let  rise  again.  When  done,  beat  one  egg, 
spread  on  the  top  with  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Put  in  the 
oven  to  dry.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Oat  Meal  Bread 

Two  heaped  coffee  cups  of  Steamed  Quaker  Rolled 
White  Oats,  \  pint  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  flour  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  When  scarcely  luke  warm,  add  \  cup  of  yeast. 
Let  rise  over  night.  When  light,  stir  in  flour  enough  to 
make  a  batter  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon. 
Put  into  baking  tin,  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  in  an  evenly 
hot  oven  (not  too  hot  at  first)  for  1  \  hours. 

Mrs.  James  Green. 

Quick  Bran  Bread 

Mix  1  cup  Kellogg's  Bran,  \\  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt  together.  Add  \  cup 
milk  or  water,  \  cup  molasses  and  1  well  beaten  eg§. 


BREAD  49 

Thoroughly  beat  and  pour  into  a  buttered  bread  pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Kellogg  Corn  Flake  Co. 

Brown  Bread 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  3  cups  Graham  flour,  \  cup 
molasses,  1  desert  spoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  \  pound 
raisins  or  nut  meats,  rolled  in  flour,  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Morgan. 

Brown  Bread 

Mix  3  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  white  flour,  1-3 
cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  flat  teaspoon  salt,  \  cup  chopped 
nut  meats  and  \  cup  of  seeded  raisins;  add  1  pint  of 
sour  milk,  \  cup  molasses,  1  egg  (beaten),  2  teaspoons 
(rounded)  soda,  one  in  milk  and  one  in  molasses,  and 
2  tablespoons  of  melted  lard  and  butter. 

Mrs  E.  L.  Branson. 

Nut  Bread 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  §  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  milk, 
4  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  chop- 
ped walnuts,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  tins  and  let 
rise  20  minutes.    Bake  about  45  minutes. 

Miss  Louise  B.  Davis. 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

Two  cups  of  Indian  meal  (use  the  bolted  meal),  1 
coffee  cup  of  wheat  flour,  1  small  coffee  cup  of  molasses, 

Buy  Baked  Goods  of  D.  B.  TOTTEN 

33    IMORTM     JEFFERSON 


50  BREAD 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water.  Add  boiling  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Pour 
into  a  greased  tin ;  cover,  and  steam  5  hours ;  remove  from 
tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Ordway. 

Brown  Bread 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  |  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon 
of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  4  cups  of  Graham  flour. 

Mrs.  T.  H.  Jennings. 

Graham  Bread 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  Graham  flour,  1  \  cups 
of  white  flour,  \  cup  of  molasses,  a  little  salt,  3  small 
tablespoons  of  baking  powder.  This  will  fill  4  one-pound 
baking  powder  cans.  Steam  1  hour.  Take  off  the  covers, 
and  put  in  the  oven  until  they  brown  a  little  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Merritt. 

Grape-Nut  Muffins 

1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  5  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  4  cups 
pastry  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  flavoring,  1  cup  grape-nuts.  Cream  sugar  and 
butter,  then  add  eggs,  then  milk.  Sift  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  together.  Add  grape-nuts  last  to  the 
sifted  flour.     Mix  all  together.     Use  hot  oven.     Makes 

2  \  dozen. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES 


Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

Sift  together  1  quart  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  of  white  sugar. 
Rub  in  thoroughly  1  level  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter. 
Mix  with  §  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Roll  on  board  §  inch  thick, 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes. 
Handle  as  little  and  make  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Boughton. 

Drop  Biscuits 

Three  cups  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1£  cups  milk.  Drop 
one  inch  apart.  Miss  Virginia  Winship. 

Graham  Gems 

Take  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  \  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  and  \ 
teaspoon  of  soda.  Graham  and  white  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  batter;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Simonds. 

Wheat  Gems 

Take  2  cups  of  buttermilk,  2  teaspoons  of  soda,  1  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
flour  to  make  a  batter  little  thicker  than  griddle  cakes. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Robertson. 


N.  J.   FREEMAN 
8  W.  Main  St.  Bell  Phone  1690 


OHM  DRUG  STORE 

Pure  Drugs,  Medicines,  Toilet  Articles,  Cigars  and  Soda  Water 


52  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES 

Muffins 

Take  1  small  pint  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  \  teaspoon  of  salt, 
milk  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Beat  the  yolk  and 
white  separately.    This  amount  makes  8  muffins. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Potato  Flour  Muffins 

Four  eggs,  pinch  salt,  £  cup  potato  flour;  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  2  teaspoons  ice  water,  1  tablespoon 
sugar. 

Beat  whites  stiff  and  dry,  add  salt  and  sugar  to  beaten 
yolks,  and  fold  into  whites.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
twice  and  add  it  to  egg  mixture.  Add  ice  water  last. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  15  to  20  minutes  in  muffin  tins. 

Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 

Potato  Splits 

Two  large  baked  potatoes,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
shortening  (half  lard,  half  butter)  1  cup  warm  milk, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  \  yeast  cake,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1 
quart  flour.  When  potatoes  are  ready,  mash  and  rub 
shortening  in  them  while  hot,  then  add  salt,  sugar  and 
eggs,  then  milk  and  flour.  Set  to  rise  at  noon  the  day 
you  want  to  use  them.  At  two-thirty  add  another  pint 
of  flour  and  let  rise.  When  light  roll  out,  cut  with  small 
cutter  \  of  an  inch  thick,  dip  in  melted  butter  and  put 
two  together.     Bake  quickly.     Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

FISHERS     PLACE  CARDS,     SCORE  CARDS  and  BRIDGE  PRIZES 


BREAKFAST  AND   TEA  CAKES  53 

Corn  Meal  Muffins 

One  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  \  cup  of 
molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup 
of  Graham  flour.    Salt  and  bake  in  hot  gem  irons. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Gregory 

Date  Muffins 

Cream  together  1-3  cup  butter,  |  cup  sugar,  add  1 
egg,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,   \  teaspoon  salt,    \  pound  dates,  cut  small. 

Miss  Louise  B.  Davis. 

Bran   Muffins 

Four  tablespoons  flour,  four  tablespoons  bran,  one 
tablespoon  lard  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  two  eggs,  one- 
fourth  pint  cold  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  the  above  thoroughly,  flour  with  baking  powder, 
add  lard  and  butter,  mix  and  add  bran,  eggs  and  milk, 
bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 
Anthony  Giacofci,  Chef.     New  Willard  Hotel. 
Courtesy  Kellogg  Corn  Flake  Co. 

Pop  Overs  for  Breakfast 

Four  eggs  lightly  beaten,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  cups 
of  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flour  suf- 
ficient to  make  as  stiff  as  stirred  cake.  Bake  in  hot  irons 
in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Rorertson, 

Bran  Gems 

One  and  one-  half  cups  of  bran,  1  teaspoon  of  baking 
soda,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of  sour 


54  BREAKFAST  AND   TEA   CAKES 

cream  or  buttermilk,  |  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  together  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  This  makes 
six  gems. 

Rene  Anjard,  chef  of  the  Waldorf-Astoria,  New  York. 
Courtesy  Kellogg  Corn  Flake  Co. 

Luncheon  Biscuit 

One  quart  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  |  cup 
sugar,  I  pound  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  §  pound  of 
nut  meats,  chopped  fine  and  §  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  with 
milk  sufficient  to  roll. 

Mrs.  Bertha  Bush  Minahan,  Green  Bay,  Wis.. 

Brown  Sugar  Buns 

Two  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1 
tablespoon  shortening,  \  teaspoon  salt,  \  cup  milk,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar.  Sift  together 
flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  add  shortening  and  rub 
in  very  lightly,  add  milk  slowly  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
roll  out  \  inch  thick.  Have  butter  soft  and  spread  over 
dough;  cover  with  brown  sugar.  Roll  same  as  jelly 
roll,  and  cut  into  \\  inch  pieces,  and  place  with  cut 
edges  upon  well  greased  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  30  minutes.    Remove  from  pan  at  once. 

Mrs.  Bertha  Bush  Minahan,  Green  Bay,  Wis. 

Johnny  Cake 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  meal,  1  cup  of  flour, 

3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  James  Boughton. 


BREAKFAST  AND   TEA   CAKES  55 

Sally   Lunn 

Take  h  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg — beat  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream — 1  well  beaten  egg,  not  quite  1 
pint  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
1  \  pints  of  flour.  Mrs.  A.  W.  Davis. 

French  Toast 

Take  3  well  beaten  eggs,  \  tea-cup  of  milk,  and  a  little 
salt.  Dip  the  slices  of  bread  in  this  batter,  and  fry  in  but- 
ter until  well  browned.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Kingman. 

Corn  Meal  Waffles 

One  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  1  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  \  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter,  a  little  sugar  to  make  them  brown 
nicely.  Mrs.  Reed  Stuart,  Detroit. 

Waffles 

Take  1  pint  of  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  small  \  cup  of  butter* 
a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Mrs.  R.  P.  Kingman. 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

One  quart  of  water,  1  cup  of  yeast,  make  a  very  thick 
batter,  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  out 
in  another  dish,  leaving  enough  to  set  again.  Add  a 
little  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk, 
to  thin  the  batter;  then  have  your  griddle  very  hot,  and 
turn  quickly.  Mrs.  D.  R.  Griswold. 

I    A     nniAf  CE*TT  DRUGS  &  GROCERIES 

■  AiUUff  PC  I    I  103  104  Calhoun  Street 


56  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA   CAKES 

Pancakes 

Sift  together  1  cup  of  flour,  2  rounded  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  §  teaspoon  of  salt,  l£  tablespoons  of 
sugar;  add  1  egg  beaten  light,  1  scant  cup  of  milk  and 
1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Branson. 

Ramekins 

Four  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  2  ounces  of  butter,  2 
ounces  of  bread  without  crust,  1  gill  of  milk,l-3  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  1-3  teaspoon  of  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  whites  of  3  eggs  reserved  for  the  top. 
Crumb  the  bread,  and  boil  in  the  milk  until  soft;  add 
other  ingredients  mixed  together.  Bake  in  gem  pans 
8  or  10  minutes.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  and  brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  I.  L.  Stone. 
Vanities 

Two  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  enough  flour  to  make  very  stiff.  Roll  very  thin, 
drop  in  hot  lard.  When  done,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Mrs.   Mary  Smith. 

Rice  Pancakes 

One  cup  boiled  rice,  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten, 
1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  7-8 
cups  flour,  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs. 

Mrs.  Morna  Eldred  LaPierre. 

Hot  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Cook  1  cup  chopped  chicken  in  1  \  cups  cream  or  milk, 
until  thick.    Season  to  taste.    Spread  between  two  slices 


BREAKFAST  AND   TEA   CAKES  57 

of  bread  (not  too  fresh).       Dip  in  beaten  egg  and  fry 
in  small  amount  of  butter.  Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Linsley  W.  Dudley. 

Protose  Sandwiches 

One  loaf  bread,  f  cup  butter,  §  pound  can  Protose, 
£  cup  mayonnaise,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  celery 
salt.  Mince  the  protose  and  mix  well  with  the  season- 
ings. Add  the  mayonnaise  and  spread  between  thinly 
sliced  buttered  bread.  Trim  the  crusts,  and  cut  into 
oblong  or  triangular  shaped  sandwiches. 

Courtesy  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 

New  Protose  Sandwiches 

One  can  minced  Protose,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
Graham  bread,  6  tablespoons  Chili  sauce,  2  hard  boiled 
egg  yolks,  butter.  Put  the  egg  yolks  through  sieve, 
add  them  to  the  minced  Protose  and  Chili  sauce.  Mix 
well.  Cut  bread  into  oblong  pieces  about  2  inches 
wide  by  3  inches  long.  Spread  lightly  with  butter. 
Toast  on  one  side,  spread  untoasted  side  with  Protose 
mixture.  Courtesy  Battle  Creek  Food  Co. 

Sandwiches 

One-fourth  pound  pecan  meats,  1  small  onion,  6 
sweet  pickles.  Put  through  grinder.  To  this  mixture, 
add  1  medium  sized  can  McLaren's  Cheese. 

Miss  Beatrice  Ensign. 


LUNCHEON  AND  SIDE  DISHES 


"Variety  alone  gives  joy; 
The  sweetest  meats  the  soonest  cloy." 

Veal  or  Chicken  Croquettes 

One  solid  pint  of  finely  chopped  cooked  meat,  1  table- 
spoon of  salt,  \  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  cup  of  cream  or 
chicken  stock,  1  tablespoon  of  floar,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
of  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  1  pint  of 
crumbs,  3  tablespoons  of  butter.  Put  the  cream  or  stock 
to  boil,  mix  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in 
the  boiling  cream.  Then  add  chicken  and  seasoning. 
Boil  for  2  minutes,  and  add  2  of  the  eggs  well  beaten; 
take  from  the  fire  immediately,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
When  cool,  shape,  and  dip  them  in  egg,  and  roll  in  bread 
crumbs;  fry  in  deep  lard.  Mrs.  Maude  C.  Ward. 

Veal  Croquettes 

Boil  meat  until  tender  then  chop  fine.  To  1  bowl  of 
meat,  add  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potato,  a  little 
butter,  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Roll  together,  and  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  rolled  crackers.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Dressing. — Two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  poured 
over  yolks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Cook  in  double 
kettle  and  thin  with  lemon  juice.     Mrs.  A.  W.  Davis. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

One  can  of  salmon,  1  cup  of  mashed  potato,  2  eggs, 
doz,  crackers  rolled  fine.   Drain  the  oil  from  the  salmon, 


LUNCHEON   AND   SIDE   DISHES  59 

and  remove  all  bones  and  skin.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
mix  very  thoroughly  with  salmon  and  mashed  potatoes, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mould  into  small  cylin- 
der-shaped rolls.  Dip  first  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  then 
cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  lard  as  you 
would  fried-cakes.  Mrs.  Frank  Preston. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

Take  equal  parts  of  salmon  and  bread  crumbs,  Salt 
and  pepper,  pour  on  enough  melted  butter  to  moisten. 
Make  in  balls  with  the  hands,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in 
butter  until  brown.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Laquay. 

Moulded  Salmon 

Two  tablespoons  cold  water,  \  tbsp.  salt,  \\  tbsp. 
sugar,  |  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1-3  can 
salmon,  yolks  2  eggs,  \\  teaspoon  melted  butter,  f  cup 
milk,  \  cup  of  vinegar,  f  cup  Knox  gelatine,  little  cay- 
enne pepper.  Put  salmon  into  a  strainer,  rinse  with  hot 
water  and  separate  into  flakes.  Mix  all  the  dry  ingredi- 
ants,  add  egg  yolks,  butter,  milk  and  vinegar.  Cook 
over  boiling  water  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens. 
Add  Knox  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water;  put  into  ring 
mold  and  serve  with  garnish  of  cucumber  and  tomato 
and  cucumber  sauce. 

Cucumrer  Sauce. — To  one  half  cup  of  cream  whipped 
stiff,  add  |  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  and 


The  Tavern  Dress  Shop 


ANNA^WALT     ' 


60  LUNCHEON   AND    SIDE   DISHES 

gradually   2   tablespoons   vinegar.      Add    1    cucumber, 
pared,  chopped,  and  drained. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Salmon  Loaf 

One  can  salmon.  Mix  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs 
and  white  of  third,  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
with  salmon  and  steam  one  hour. 

Dressing. — Take  oil  from  salmon,  yolk  of  egg,  1 
cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  little  butter,  salt  and 
pepper;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour  over 
loaf.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Smith. 

Cod  Fish  Balls 

Take  8  or  9  good  sized  potatoes,  1  quart  of  picked 
cod-fish  that  has  soaked  over  night;  let  simmer  on  the 
stove  until  potatoes  are  boiled,  strain  the  fish,  and  put 
in  with  the  potatoes;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  hickory  nut,  and  one  well  beaten  egg.  Mash  all  to- 
gether. Sometimes  it  needs  a  little  salt  to  season  well. 
Shape  like  croquettes,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard,  like 
doughnuts.  Always  take  some  lard  which  has  been  used 
before,  adding  fresh  lard  if  needed;  if  not  hot  enough, 
they  will  fall  to  pieces.       Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Potato  Croquettes 

Season  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  pepper  salt,  nutmeg; 
beat  to  a  cream  with  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  to 
every  cup  of  potato.  Bind  with  2  or  3  beaten  eggs,  and 
add  some  minced  parsley  or  celery.  Roll  into  cylinder- 
shaped  rolls;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  bread  crumbs,  and 


LUNCHEON   AND    SIDE    DISHES  61 

fry  in  hot  lard.  Pile  in  a  pyramid  upon  a  flat  dish;  garnish 
with  parsley.  Mrs.  Chas.  Bathrick. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

Two  cups  of  cold,  boiled,  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  3 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice, 
|  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Beat  all  together  until  light  and  smooth.  Shape  into 
balls,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
in  enough  boiling  fat  to  cover.  Drain  when  a  light 
brown.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Rice  Croquettes 

One  teacup  of  rice,  boiled  in  one  pint  of  milk.  When 
soft  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  spoons  of  sugar,  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  1  lemon.  Mix  well  and  make  into 
rolls.  Beat  the  yolk  of  2  eggs.  Dip  the  rolls  first  into  the 
egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  lard. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Rice  Cakes 

Take  2  cups  of  boiled  rice,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of 
flour,  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  together.  Mould  into  cakes 
or  balls,  fry  in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  Baw  oysters  may 
be  added.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Coller. 

Pea  Patties 

Make  pastry  crust,  and  bake  in  small  patty-pans.  Cut 
sweet-breads  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  with  peas;  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
and  milk.   Fill  the  patties,  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Earle. 


62  LUNCHEON   AND   SIDE   DISHES 

Baked  Hash 

To  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  allow  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  and  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  beat  all  together  till  very  light,  then  add  \\  caps  of 
meat  chopped  fine.  After  mixing  thoroughly,  put  in  a 
shallow  baking  dish,  and  bake  20  minutes  or  J  hour. 

Miss  Olivia  Hinman. 

Meat  Hash 

Chop  meat  very  fine.  To  each  pint  add  \  pint  cold 
boiled  potatoes  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
1  cup  stock  or  water,  season,  stir  over  fire  8  minutes, 
spread  smoothly.  Cover  pan,  and  set  back  where  it 
will  brown  slowly  h  hour.  When  done,  fold  like  an  omelet 
put  on  hot  dish.  Garnish  with  points  of  toast  and  parsley. 
Mrs.  Reed  Stuart,  Princeton  N.J. 

Potato  Puffs 

Boil  potatoes,  mash  fine,  add  salt  and  butter,  then  beat 
well.  Add  \  cup  of  boiling  milk;  beat  again.  Shape  into 
balls,  butter  tin  sheet,  place  them  on.  Brush  with  beaten 
egg.  Brown  in  oven,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve 
immediately.        Mrs.  Reed  Stuart,  Princeton  N.J. 

Tomato  and  Lamb  Pie 

Take  the  remains  of  a  cold  roasted  or  boiled  lamb,  cut 
up  in  small  pieces;  put  in  a  deep  dish  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  layer  of  meat,  and  then  a  layer  of  sliced  toma- 
toes, pepper,  and  salt ;  when  the  dish  is  full,  moisten  with 


LUNCHEON   AND   SIDE   DISHES  63 

hot  water ;  sprinkle  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  small 
pieces  of  butter.   Bake  50  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Groesbeck. 

Macaroni  With  Cheese 

One-fourth  pound  of  best  macaroni,  boiled  in  salted 
water  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  1  cup  of  grated  cheese. 
Take  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour 
Mix  and  stir  slowly  into  1  pint  of  hot  milk;  cook  until 
thick.  Butter  your  baking  dish.  Put  alternate  layers 
of  cheese,  macaroni,  and  dressing,  the  cheese  on  top  with 
bits  of  butter  and  3  or  4  crackers  rolled  fine.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven  from  £  to  §  hour.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Ward. 

Macaroni  With  Red  Dressing 

Simmer  the  macaroni  in  weak  soup  stock  until  tender 
and  well  flavored;  drain  well,  place  in  a  deep  dish,  and 
cover  moderately  with  dressing.  Have  ready  some 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  which  sprinkle  over  all. 

Red  Dressing. — One  can  of  tomatoes  or  1  quart  of 
fresh  ones;  boil  them  in  a  porcelain  pan  from  15  to  30 
minutes.  After  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  two 
or  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  strain  all,  and  put  the  purie 
over  the  fire  with  \  cup  of  rich  brown  sauce.  Thicken 
with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  stirred  in  a  saucepan  till 
brown,  and  mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Stir  con- 
stantly for  fifteen  minutes;  if  too  thick,  add  more  sauce; 
if  too  thin,  boil  longer,  and  season  again  when  done. 

Mrs.  D.  P.  Smiley. 

jsrskiivk;    studio 

When  you  want  good  work  call  on  us.       17  South  Ave.      Bell  Phone  357 


64  LUNCHEON  AND   SIDE   DISHES 

Macaroni  Loaf  With   Cheese   and  Tomato   Sauce 

One  half  cup  macaroni  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  3  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  chopped  onion  and  parsley,  1  teaspoon  salt,  £  cup 
grated  cheese.  Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water 
till  tender  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Cook  parsley,  onion 
and  pepper  in  a  little  water  with  the  butter.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  Mix  all  ingre- 
diants,  cutting  and  folding  in  the  stifly  beaten  whites 
last.  Bake  in  quart  dish,  lined  with  buttered  paper, 
set  in  pan  of  hot  water  \  to  f  of  an  hour,  in  moderate 
oven.  Turn  out  on  plate  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce 
around  it.  A  hole  in  center  for  parsley  decoration  adds 
to  its  attractiveness. 

Tomato  Sauce. — 1  quart  tomatoes  cooked  thoroughly, 
Put  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt,  white  pepper, 
and  a  little  green  pepper  which  has  been  soaked  in  salt 
and  water  and  chopped  very  fine.  Add  1  tablespoon 
sugar  and  butter  size  of  an  egg.   Serve  hot. 

Mrs.   Gertrude  Chapin. 

Ham  Sandwiches 

Cream  in  water  1  teacup  of  butter,  add  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  mustard,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  stir 
into  1  quart  of  chopped  ham;  mix  with  the  hand. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Ham  Mousse 

Two  cups  boiled  ham  chopped  fine.  Dash  cayenne 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  French  Mustard,  1  teaspoon  Knox 


LUNCHEON  AND   SIDE   DISHES  65 

gelatine,  £  cup  hot  water,  £  cup  whipped  cream.  Dis- 
solve gelatine  in  hot  water  and  add  cream.  Mix  cayenne 
and  mustard  with  ham,  then  combine  this  mixture 
thoroughly  with  gelatine  and  cream.  Turn  into  square 
mold,  place  on  ice  for  two  or  three  hours.  Cut  in  slices 
and  serve  with  any  sauce   prefered. 

Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Potato  Cheese  Puff 

Three  cups  mashed  potato,  \  cup  hot  milk,  whites 
of  2  eggs,  \  pound  cheese,  2  egg  yolks,  I  teaspoon  salt, 
\  teaspoon  pepper.  Cut  cheese  in  pieces  and  melt  in  hot 
milk.  When  smooth  and  creamy  beat  into  mashed 
potato,  to  which  egg  yolks  have  been  added.  Season 
and  fold  in  stifly  beaten  whites.  Pour  in  well  buttered 
baking  dish ;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  firm  and  brown. 

Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Cheese  Fondu 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs  dry  and  fine,  2  cups  of  sweet 
milk,  3  eggs,  |  pound  of  dry  cheese  grated,  1  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Soak  the 
crumbs  in  the  milk,  beat  in  the  yolks,  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  then  the  whites  whipped  stiff,  lastly  the  cheese. 
Pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  stew  dry  crumbs  over  the  top 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown;  serve  in  the  same 
dish  at  once,  as  it  falls  like  omelet  by  standing. 

Mrs.  Kate  Snyder,  Denver. 

Toasted  Cheese 

Cut  cheese  in  slices  of  moderate  thickness;  put  in  sauce- 
pan with  a  little  butter  and  cream.    Simmer  gently  till 


66  LUNCHEON   AND    SIDE   DISHES 

quite  melted,  then  take  from  fire  to  cool  a  little;  add  yolk 
of  egg  well  beaten;  make  into  shape,  and  brown  before 
fire.  Nice  for  lunches. 

Mrs.  Clelle  Humphrey  White. 

Walnut  Cheese  Loaf 

Mix  2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  ground  nut 
meats,  1  cup  grated  cheese,  1  cup  milk,  f  teaspoon  salt, 
\  teaspoon  cayenne,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1 
tablespoon  chopped  onion,  1  egg  slightly  beaten.  Shape 
into  a  loaf  and  bake  §  hour.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 
Rice  may  be  used  in  place  of  bread  crums. 

Miss  Mary  Browning. 

Cheese  Straws 

One  cup  of  cheese,  1  cup  of  flour,  \  cup  butter.  Dash 
of  paprika.  Put  cheese  through  meat  grinder  and  mix 
all  together.    Cut  in  strips  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.   Elmer  Brocker. 

Cheese  Souffle 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  h  cup 
scalded  milk,  §  teaspoon  salt,  little  red  pepper,  J  cup 
grated  cheese,  3  eggs.  Melt  butter,  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  flour.  Add  hot  milk  gradually.  Add  salt,  pepper 
and  cheese.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  beaten  yolks. 
Cool  and  fold  in  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  but- 
tered dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Helen  Davis  Chope, 


LUNCHEON    AND    SIDE    DISHES  7 

Dream   Cake* 

One-half  cup  milk.  ±  jar  McLaren's  cream  cheese, 
1   tablespoon  melted  butter.   1   tablespoon  flour,     Put 

between  bread  and  toast.  Mrs.  Nellie  B.  Davis. 

"N  irginia  Red  Devil 

One  can  Campbell's  Tomato  soup.  Put  on  in  double 
boiler.  While  this  is  heating,  put  one  pound  of  cheese 
through  grinder.  Then  add  to  soup.  When  cheese  is 
melted  and  piping  hot,  add  a  beaten  egg  and' remove 
Gram  lire.  Serve  un  crackers  at  toast.  A  good  dish  for 
lunch.  Mrs.    C.    P.   Baker. 

Southern   Spoon   Bread 

One  cup  corn  meal.  1  tal  a  fat.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg,  boiling  water.  1  cup  sour  milk.  g  teaspoon  soda. 

Scald  meal  and  salt  with  boiling  water  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Add  fat.  yolk  of  egg.  sour  milk  and 
soda.  Beat  well.  Fold  in  the  beaten  egg  white.  Put  in 
buttered  baking  dish  and  cook  45  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Serve  from  dish  with  a  spoon.  This  may  be  served 
with  a  meat  course,  at  as  a  luncheon  dish  with  maple 
svrup.  Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harrert. 

Stuffed  Eggs 

Boil  eggs  20  minutes,  rub  yolks  to  smooth  paste,  add 
equal  amount  of  chopped  ham.  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard  to  taste.   Fill  eggs  with 

PIGGLY  VIGGLY  ALL  OVER  THE  WORLD 

12  N.  JEFFERSON  AM.  BATTLE  CREEK.  MICH. 


68  LUNCHEON  AND   SIDE   DISHES 

this  mixture,  and  place  in  a  baking  dish,  having  cut  a 
thin  slice  from  the  end  of  the  eggs  so  they  will  stand; 
turn  around  them  a  thin  white  sauce,  sprinkle  the  whole 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Before  serving,  place  a  small  piece  of  parsley  in  each  egg. 
White  Sauce. — Half  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  f  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Serve  also  with  fish,  warmed-over  potatoes,  or 
omelet.  Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Omelet 

Small  slice  of  white  bread  soaked  in  milk,  crush  with  a 
fork,  and  remove  hard  crusts.  With  this  beat  the  yolks  of 
3  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  3  whites  very  stiff,  and  stir 
lightly  with  the  yolks  just  before  frying.  Fry  on  pancake 
griddle  in  a  little  butter,  and  turn  half  over  when  there  is 
a  firm  crust  on  the  bottom. 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Mechem,  Chicago,  III. 

Omelet  With  Cream  Sauce 

Three  eggs,  \  cup  of  milk,  1  \  tablespoons  of  corn  starch 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Put  the  omelet 
pan,  covered  closely,  on  to  heat.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  the  corn  starch,  and  salt.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add  to  yolks  and  corn  starch.  Stir  all  together 
thoroughly,  and  add  the  milk.  Put  the  butter  in  the  hot 
pan.  When  melted,  pour  in  the  mixture,  cover,  and  place 
on  the  stove  where  it  will  brown,  but  not  burn.  Cook 
about  7  minutes;  fold,  turn  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with 
cream  sauce  poured  around  it.  Serve  with  white  sauce 
above.  Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman, 


LUNCHEON  AND   SIDE   DISHES  69 

Spanish  Omelet 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  3 
tablespoons  thick  stewed  tomatoes  and  f  cup  sliced 
ripe  olives.  Beat  whites  very  stiff  and  fold  in  carefully. 
Cook  in  well  buttered  pan  until  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Ordway. 

Corn   Pudding 

Mix  2  tablespoons  corn  starch  with  \  cup  milk  and 
stir  into  1  pint  of  hot  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Cook 
until  thick.  Add  1  good  tablespoon  butter,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs  and  1  can  corn,  add  seasoning.  Put  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  until  firm,  about  20 
minutes.  Add  salt  to  the  whites  and  beat  stiff.  Put 
on  top  of  pudding  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Sprinkle 
chopped  red  pepper  on  top.        Mrs.  L.  W.  King. 

Deviled  Eggs 

Six  eggs  boiled  hard.  Shell  and  cut  them  in  halves, 
slipping  the  yolks  into  a  dish. 

Dressing. — Two  spoons  of  melted  butter,  2  table- 
spoons vinegar,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  mustard, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  this  over  the  yolks,  and 
rub  with  the  hands  until  smooth;  make  into  balls,  and 
replace  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Mrs.   J.   T.   Caldwell. 


L 


Qandy 
Service 


70  LUNCHEON  AND   SIDE   DISHES 

Baked  Eggs 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  yolks.  Salt  the  whites  very  salt,  and  beat  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Place  in  turbot  shells.  Scoop  out  the  mid- 
dle, into  which  drop  the  unbroken  yolk.  Bake,  and  when 
done,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  the  yolks. 

Miss  Olivia  S.  Hinman. 

A  Nice  Dish  For  Breakfast 

One  slice  of  bread  and  1  pint  of  milk  boiled  together,  1 
cup  of  fried  ham  chopped  very  fine,  and  1  egg.  Pour 
the  bread  and  milk  over  the  ham  and  egg,  and  beat  all 
together.  Bake  a  light  brown.  Mrs.  Wm.  Neale. 


SALADS 


Chicken  Salad 

One  chicken  boiled  tender.  When  cold,  pick  into 
course  pieces,  careful  to  leave  out  skin  and  bones.  Rub 
into  this  2  or  3  teaspoons  of  dry  mustard,  and  salt  well, 
and  use  3  or  4  bunches  of  celery.  Cabbage  may  be  used 
if  celery  is  scarce. 

Dressing. — A  little  more  than  \  pint  of  good  sour  ^vine- 
gar,  yolks  of  8  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Have  the 
eggs  beaten  light,  and  when  the  butter  and  vinegar  are 
hot,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  to  the  eggs,  stirring  constantly, 
that  the  mixture  may  not  curdle.  Beat  until  nearly  cold, 
and  when  cold,  mix  with  the  chicken,  etc.  Just  before 
serving,  add  all  the  whipped  sweet  cream  it  will  bear 
without  making  too  thin.  Veal  may  be  used  in  place  of 
chicken.  Six  chickens,  4  pounds  each,  will  serve  130 
people.  Mrs.  Charles  H.  Hinman. 

Shrimp   Salad 

For  1  can  of  shrimps,  take  4  eggs,  or  yolks  of  8,  6  table- 
spoons of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of  cream  (or  the  same  of 
milk  and  a  piece  of  butter),  2  teaspoons  of  sugar.  Beat 
the  eggs  well  with  an  egg-beater;  add  the  sugar,  \  tea- 
spoon each  of  salt  and  dry  mustard;  then  the  vinegar  and 

MILLINERY         Df^ncf^lil    €Iia«     GOODWIN  &  CAMPCO. 
QUALITY  and  STYLE       llallSneni   JllOp  CORSETS 

At  Reasonable  Prices   32  West  Main  Street  (2nd  Floor)  Brassiers,  etc-Free  Fittings 


72  SALADS 

the  cream.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
and  stir  until  very  thick.  Let  this  dressing  get  very  cold 
before  using.  Place  the  shrimps  in  cold  water  from  3  to 
4  hours,  and  put  the  dressing  and  shrimps  together  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  lettuce  or  celery,  cut  rather  coarse. 

Miss.  0.  S.  Hinman. 

Lobster   Salad 

Drain  the  oil  from  1  can  of  lobster.  Chop  the  lobster, 
also  6  heads  of  celery,  not  very  fine.  Mix  1  teaspoon  of 
mustard  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  vinegar.  Add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  creamed  butter,  1 
small  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  same  of  pepper,  1  gill  of  vine- 
gar, the  mashed  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs.  Mix  a  small 
portion  of  the  dressing  with  the  celery  and  lobster,  and 
turn  the  remainder  over  all.  Garnish  with  the  green  tops 
of  celery  and  the  whites  of  the  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in 
rings.  Mrs.  Mary  L.  Briggs. 

Salmon   Salad 

Set  the  can  of  salmon  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
let  it  remain  20  minutes.  Remove  the  salmon  from  the 
can,  lay  it  on  a  platter,  cover  with  vinegar,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  with  whole  cloves,  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Then  pour  off  the  vinegar,  remove  cloves, 
and  mix  with  enough  minced  celery  to  make  the  salad 
crisp.  Pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  garnish 
with  celery.  Mrs.  Mollie  E.  Bathrick  Marvin. 

Cheese  Salad 

Soak  1  tablespoon  Knox  gelatine  in  I  cup  cold  water 
15  minutes  and  dissolve  over  hot  water,   2  packages 


SALADS  73 

Philadelphia  cream  cheese,  \  cup  grated  cheese,  \  cup 
cream  whipped,  salt  to  taste,  paprika.  Cream  cheese 
with  a  little  cream,  making  it  smooth.  Add  gelatine, 
whipped  cream,  salt  and  paprika.  Mold  in  dish  for  ten 
or  twelve  hours.    Serve  with  Thousand  Island  dressing. 

Mrs.  Waldo  Jennings. 

Cheese  Salad 

Three  packages  Philadelphia  Cream  Cheese,  1  cup 
mayonnaise,  1  box  Knox  gelatine,  2  cups  boiling  water, 
\  pint  cream,  whipped,  juice  of  \  lemon,  2  tablespoons 
sugar.  Mix  cheese  and  mayonnaise.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  \  cup  cold  water,  add  boiling  water;  cool.  When  cool, 
add  cheese  and  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  and 
whipped  cream.  Mold  in  ring  mold.  As  mixture  begins 
to  stiffen,  add  the  following  filling: 

Filling. — 1  pint  white  cherries,  1  pint  pineapple 
(cut  up)  or  apricots,  \  cup  pecan  meats,  1  small  bottle 
mareschino  cherries.  Serve  on  head  lettuce.  Place 
mayonnaise  in  center  of  ring.  This  amount  will  serve  12. 

Mrs.  V.  Howard  Wattles. 

Prune  Salad 

Soak  large  prunes  over  night,  in  water  little  more 
than  enough  to  cover.  Cook  in  same  water  in  covered 
stewpan  very  slowly.  Add  a  very  little  sugar  and  about 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  to  1  dozen  prunes.  When  cold 
remove  pits.  Soften  cream  cheese  with  cream  or  an  acid 
fruit  juice,  preferably  pineapple  or  apricot,  and  a  little 
salt.  Stuff  the  prunes  with  the  cheese  mixture  and  serve 
on  lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Custer  Tea  Shop. 


74  SALADS 

Head    Lettuce    With    Roquefort    Cheese    Dressing 

One  large  solid  head  lettuce,  3  tablespoons  roquefort 
cheese,  4  tablespoons  oil,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  (strong) 
£  teaspoon  salt,  1-8  teaspoon  black  pepper.  Prepare 
lettuce  as  for  any  salad,  wrap  in  old  linen  and  put  on 
ice.  Place  \  of  cheese  in  bowl,  and  mix  in  the  oil,  add 
vinegar  slowly  and  beat  vigorously.  Add  salt  and  pepper 
and  rest  of  cheese  which  has  been  crumbled. 

Pour  over  lettuce  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 

Frozen  Tomato  Salad 

Six  medium  sized  tomatoes  or  1  pint  cooked  tomato, 
1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  cu- 
cumber, 1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  mayonnaise,  1  cup 
whipped  cream.  Skin  the  fresh  tomatoes  and  scoop 
out  pulp  and  juice  in  center.  Drain  and  chill.  Add  onion, 
cucumber  and  other  seasonings  to  the  pulp  and  juice; 
fold  in  mayonnaise  and  cream.  Pack  and  freeze  to  the 
consistency  of  mush.  Fill  tomato  shells.  If  canned 
tomato  is  used  put  through  sieve.  Freeze  solidly 
enough  to  slice.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 

Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

One  tablespoon  Knox  gelatine,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
\  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  shredded  cabbage,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar,  \  cup  nut  meats  chopped,  1  \  cup  boiling  water, 

Silhouette  Tea  Room  uJi  t^0^.^ 


SALADS  75 

\  cup  cucumbers  cut  in  small  cubes,  \  teaspoon  salt. 
Peel  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  inside  pulp,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  invert.  Let  stand  \  hour.  Soak  gelatine  in 
cold  water.  Dissolve  in  boiling  water.  Add  vinegar, 
sugar  and  salt.  Cool  and  when  it  begins  to  jelly  add  the 
vegetables  and  fill  the  tomatoes.  Chill  and  serve  with 
mayonnaise.  Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harbert. 

Potato  Salad 

Nine  potatoes,  5  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  onion,  small 
bottle  of  capers,  French  dressing,  1  cup  mayonnaise,  1 
cup  whipped  cream.  Slice  the  onion  very  thin  and  mari- 
nate in  French  dressing  several  hours  or  over  night. 
Then  boil  the  potatoes  and  while  still  hot, cube,  and  add 
onions  and  enough  French  dressing  to  thoroughly  moist- 
en potato.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Set 
aside  for  several  hours  or  over  night.  Then  whip  the 
cream  thoroughly  and  slowly  add  the  mayonnaise. 
Add  sliced  or  cubed  hard-boiled  eggs  and  capers  to 
potato,  fold  in  the  dressing  and  serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  W.R.  Wooden. 

French  Dressing 

Nine  tablespoons  oil,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  1  teaspoon  celery  seed,  1  slice  onion,  1  tea- 
spoon Worcestershire  Sauce,  |  teaspoon  paprika,  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Place  all  ingredients 
except  oil  in  a  dish  and  beat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Pour  into  salad  bottle,  add  oil.   Shake  well  before  using. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Wooden. 


76  SALADS 

Cabbage  Salad 

Chop  fine  1  medium  sized  head  of  cabbage ;  add  1  cup 
of  sugar,  \  cup  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  and  add 
1  cup  of  sour  cream.  Beat  until  very  light. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Coller. 

Cabbage  Salad 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  \  pint  of  cream,  3  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  \ 
cup  of  butter,  \  cup  of  strong  vinegar,  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Mix  mustard,  sugar,  and  salt  with  melted  butter, 
and  add  to  the  cream  and  eggs.  Stir  constantly  until  it 
boils.   When  cold,  add  vinegar  and  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  Lettie  Locke  Godfrey. 

Molded  Salad 

One  envelope  Knox  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  cold 
water.  Add  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  \  cup  of  sugar  and 
juice  of  2  lemons.  When  cooled  a  little,  add  1  cup  sliced 
cucumber,  1  cup  pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mold 
in  small  molds  and  chill.  Remove  from  molds  and  serve 
in  individual  nests  of  lettuce,  with  mayonnaise  and  a 
little  chopped  parsley  on  top.  In  place  of  cucumber 
and  pineapple,  may  use  the  following:  1  cup  celery, 
I  of  a  green  pepper  cut  fine,£  cup  pimento  and  \  cup 
nut  meats  chopped.  Mrs.  Elmer  Brocker. 

White  Salad 

One  cup  celery,  1  cup  cabbage,  small  can  of  pimento, 
\  cup  blanched  almonds.  Cut  these  ingredients  rather 
fine.     Soak  \  box  Knox  gelatine  in  1  pint  cold  water. 


SALADS  77 

When  soft,  add  1  pint  of  hot  water  and  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  If  cups  granulated  sugar.  When  slightly  cold,  add 
the  juice  of  3  lemons.  When  the  gelatine  has  begun  to 
congeal  add  the  other  ingredients.  Mold  in  either  cups 
or  pan.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  mixed 
half  with  whipped  cream. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Salad  Supreme 

Two  cups  diced  pineapple,  1  cup  diced  cucumber,  3 
oz.,  mayonnaise  dressing  (6  tablespoons).  Put  diced 
cucumber  in  ice  water  or  ice  box  till  needed.  Mix  with 
pineapple.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaf  and  serve  with  spoon- 
ful mayonnaise.    (Uncooked  Mayonnaise.) 

Miss  Virginia  Winship. 

Walnut  Deceits  to  Serve  With  Salad 

One  small  cream  cheese,  f  cup  olives  stoned  and 
chopped,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1-8  teaspoon  paprika,  \  cup 
sifted  cracker  crumbs.  Work  small  cheese,  add  olives, 
salt  and  paprika.  Shape  in  balls;  roll  in  cracker  crumbs. 
Flatten  and  place  halves  of  English  Walnuts  on  oppo- 
site sides.  Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad 

One  envelope  Knox  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water  and  add  \  cup  of  boiling  water,  3  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  3  tablespoons  orange  juice.  Heat  and  add 
\  cup  of  sugar.  When  cool,  add  2  grape  fruit  cut  up,  and 
mold.     Serve  with  salad  dressing 

Mrs.    Arthur    Green, 


78  SALADS 

Salad  Dressing 

One  pint  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt, 
a  little  red  pepper,  1  large  cup  of  butter.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil  and  add  3  tablespoons  mustard,  3  tablespoons 
flour  mixed  in  a  little  water.  When  boiling  add  1  table- 
spoon Knox  gelatine  dissolved  in  water.  After  removing 
from  the  fire,  add  3  well  beaten  eggs.    Thin  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Green. 

Salad  Dressing 

Four  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  \  teaspoon  salt, 
\  teaspoon  mustard,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  2  tablespoon  cream.  Stir  all  together  and  boil 
until  thick;  add  whipped  cream.    Serves  eight. 

Mrs.  Charles  W.  Brown. 

Salad  Dressing 

One  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  a  little  cayenne  pepper, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  raw  eggs, 
|  of  a  lemon,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  pint  of  oil.  Beat 
dry  ingredients  thoroughly  with  the  eggs,  then  add  oil 
drop  by  drop  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  when  you  can  beat 
it  in  faster;  thin  with  the  vinegar  till  all  is  used.  When 
cold,  add  one  cup  whipped  cream.  Eggs  and  oil  must 
be  very  cold.  Mrs.  Walter  Clark. 

Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  \  cup  of  butter,  1  \  tablespoons  of 
mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and 
1  pint  of  vinegar.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  and  add  mustard, 


SALADS  79 

salt,  sugar,  melted  butter,  and  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick 
like  cream,  and  just  before  using,  add  §  cup  of  whipped 
cream,  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mrs.  A.  L.  Clark 

Mock   Mayonnaise 

One  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1-3  cup  flour, 
2  egg  yolks,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  f 
teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 
2  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  cup  oil.  Make  in  double  boiler, 
a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  water.  Cook  ten  minutes. 
Combine  egg  yolks,  salt,  mustard,  pepper,  lemon  juice 
and  vinegar.  To  this  add  oil  but  do  not  stir.  Turn 
sauce  hot  into  other  ingredients  and  beat  quickly  with 
egg  beater.  Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 

One  cup  sour  cream  (good  and  thick  is  best),  \  cup 
butter,  \  (scant ) teaspoon  salt.  (Cook  in  double  boiler). 
When  thoroughly  hot  add  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2 
dessert  spoons  sugar,  juice  £  lemon.  Stir  until  thorough- 
ly cooked.  This  will  be  very  thick  and  when  desired 
for  use  thin  with  lemon  or  fruit  juice.  Very  nice  for 
fruit  salads.  Mrs.  Fred  W.  Gage. 

Cooked  Salad  Dressing  With  Oil 

Three  egg  yolks,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  2  tablespoons, 
lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt, 


Listen  Ladies.    These  redoes  are  sure  nice,  bit  when  you  don't  want  to  bake 
yourself,  and  want  something  nice,  Let  us  do  it  for  you. 

FEDERAL.  ®Y®TES;iVI   of  BAKERIES 
PHONE  885  F.  ROLLIN  SMITH   Mgr, 


80  SALADS 

a  little  paprika,  1  cup  Mazola  oil.  Mix  in  a  bowl.  Take 
1-3  cup  flour  and  oil  enough  to  rub  smooth;  add  to  this 
1|  cups  boiling  water.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick. 
Beat  the  above  mixture  into  it  while  hot,  using  a  Dover 
egg  beater.  Makes  1  quart.  Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 

Dutch  Cheese  Salad 

Season  creamy  Dutch  cheese  with  salt,  chopped  onion, 
and  green  pepper.  Place  on  thick  slice  of  tomato,  with 
another  slice  of  tomato  on  top.  Serve  on  head  lettuce 
with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.   Morna  Eldred  LaPierre. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Put  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  a  bowl  with  salt  and  pepper, 
juice  of  1  lemon,  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard.  Add 
by  degrees  in  very  small  quantities,  1  tablespoon  of  vine- 
gar, then  |  pint  of  salad  oil,  only  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
stirring  rapidly  all  the  time. 

Mrs.  Richmond  Kingman. 

French  Dressing  for  Lettuce,  Tomatoes,  Etc. 

Three  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 
salt,  pepper,  and  Worchestershire  sauce  dissolved  in  the 
vinegar.    To  be  made  on  the  table. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Prepared  Cheese 

One  package  Philadelphia  cheese,  1  teaspoon  olive 
oil,  3  teaspoons  Worchestershire  sauce  and  a  little  salt 
mixed  together.     Make  in  balls  and  serve  with  salad. 

Miss  Myrtle  C.  Ellis, 


SALADS 


81 


Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Add  1  cup  of  well  drained  Chili  sauce  to  1  cup  of 
thick  mayonnaise,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion  and 
2  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  Mix  well  together 
and  serve  on  head  lettuce. 

Miss  Myrtle  C.  Ellis. 


PASTRY  AND  PUDDINGS 


"Now  good  digestion  waits  on  appetite, 
And  health  on  both." 

Pie  Crust 

Small  |  cup  of  lard,  1  coffee  cup  of  flour,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Add  water  enough  to  roll  without  using  more  flour. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  crust  is  set,  then  regulate 
the  heat  to  finish  slowly.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Kleckner. 

Pie   Crust 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  flour,  \  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  rounded  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  of  lard  rubbed  or 
cut  through  the  flour;  add  3  tablespoons  of  ice  water. 
Roll  on  floured  board.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Branson. 

Mince-Meat 

Four  lbs.  of  beef,  3  lbs.  of  suet,  3  lbs.  of  raisins,  3  lbs.  of 
currants,  1  lb.  of  citron,  3  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  1  pint  of 
molasses,  2  ozs.  of  ground  cinnamon,  1  oz.  of  cloves,  1  oz. 
of  nutmeg;  grated  rind  and  juice  of  8  lemons.  Boil  the 
meat  very  tender  the  day  before  you  wish  to  chop  it, 
pick  out  all  bits  of  fat  or  gristle,  chop  the  suet  fine,  re- 
moving all  strings  and  threads.  Mix  well  together, 
season  with  salt  and  black  pepper.  Wash  the  currants 
thoroughly,  dry  them,  and  add  to  the  mixture;  seed  the 

Dei  England  Pie  Shop  J^tS  nome£££». 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 


83 


raisins,  add  the  molasses,  sugar,  and  spices;  slice  the 
citron  thin.  To  1  quart  of  the  foregoing,  add  one  pint 
of  apples  chopped  fine.  It  is  best  to  add  the  apples  at 
each  baking.  Moisten  with  sweet  cider  till  very  juicy. 
Keep  in  a  stone  jar  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  make 
the  pies,  take  just  enough  mince-meat  for  the  number  of 
pies  desired,  put  it  on  the  stove  in  a  pan,  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil.  Mrs.  C.  F.  Bock. 

Green  Tomato  Mincemeat 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  put  through  food  chopper, 
using  coarse  cutter.  Drain  well  over  night  and  add  as 
much  cold  water  as  juice.  Then  add  5  lbs.  brown  sugar, 
2  lbs.  chopped  raisins,  2  lemons,  6  large  sour  apples, 
chopped  but  not  peeled,  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  2 
of  cloves,  2  of  allspice,  2  of  salt  and  nutmeg,  1  cup  of 
vinegar,  \  lb.  of  butter.    Cook  until  done. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  Chapin. 

Mock  Mince  Pie 

One  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  crackers,  1 
cup  of  chopped  raisins,  2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
2  cups  of  hot  water,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, 1  of  cloves,  1  of  allspice,  a  little  butter  and  nut- 
meg. Mrs.  M.  P.  Chatterton. 

Lemon  Pie 

Line  a  plate  with  rich  crust,  prick  full  of  holes,  and 
bake.  For  filling :  stir  into  1  cup  of  boiling  water  1  table- 
spoon of  cornstarch;  cook  thoroughly,  then  add  butter 
size  of  walnut,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg  and  yolks  of  2,  re- 


84  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

serving  the  whites  for  frosting,  rind  of  1  lemon  and  juice 
of  2.  Put  this  mixture  into  the  crust,  cover  with  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  with  a  little  sugar  and  lemon 
juice  added.    Brown  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Leon. 

Individual  Lemon  Pies 

Fill  deep  gem  tins  with  flaky  pie  crust  made  of  butter. 
Filling:  1  lb.  of  sugar,  §  lb.  of  butter,  8  eggs  well  beaten, 
rind  and  juice  of  4  lemons;  fill  tins  2-3  full,  bake;  put  1 
tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  on  each  pie.  This  makes 
dessert  for  12.  Mrs.  Marie  Upton  Strong. 

Cocoanut   Tarts 

One  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  very  little  water;  boil  like 
frosting.  Then  stir  in  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  £  cup  of  cocoa- 
nut.    Use  frosting  of  2  whites  for  tops.    Bake  like  pies. 

Mrs.  Olivia  S.  Hinman. 

Cocoanut  Tarts 

fr.  Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water.  Boil  slowly  fifteen  min- 
utes. Then  add  one  large  cup  of  cocoanut  and  boil 
slowly  fifteen  minutes  more.  Take  from  stove  and  stir 
in  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  7  eggs. 
Beat  well.  Line  muffin  tins  with  pie  crust,  fill  with 
mixture  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.   L.   H.   Sarin. 


hats-Ha llu  noim;in-FURs 


-Holly  IklitL 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  85 

Cinnamon  Sticks 

Take  light  pie  crust,  roll  thin,  and  spread  with  butter. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  cut  into  small  oblong 
pieces,  roll  twice,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Earle. 

Pumpkin    Pie 

One  coffee  cup  of  pumpkin,  \  cup  of  sugar,  \  teaspoon 
of  cinnamon,  \  teaspoon  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  and  1  egg. 
Milk  to  fill  1  round  pie  tin.  Mrs.  V.  P.  Collier. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

One  cup  of  pumpkin,  add  to  it  £  cup  of  sugar  to  which 
add  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  |  teaspoon  of  salt,  §  tea- 
spoon of  nutmeg,  \  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  \  teaspoon 
of  ginger  rubbed  well  together;  add  1  cup  of  hot  milk, 
and  then  two  slightly  beaten  eggs.  Lastly  \  of  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  Fill  in  crust  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Branson. 

Chocolate   Pie 

One  coffee  cup  of  milk,  3  eggs,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  2  large 
tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate,  salt,  vanilla.  Reserve 
the  white  of  1  egg,  beat  with  a  little  powdered  sugar, 
for  frosting.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil,  which  pour  over 
the  remaining  eggs  well  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Stir  the 
chocolate  into  2  large  spoons  of  cold  milk,  then  add  to 
the  boiling  milk.    Bake  with  one  crust. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Peebles, 


86  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

Chocolate  Pie 

Make  a  crust,  and  bake.  For  the  filling:  2  cups  of 
milk,  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  some  of  the 
milk,  \  cake  of  chocolate,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
a  little  vanilla,  after  taking  from  the  stove.  Beat  whites 
of  2  eggs,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar ;  spread  over  the 
top,  and  slightly  brown.  Mrs.  James  Green. 

Cocoanut   Pie 

One  pint  of  milk,  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  2-3  cup 
of  sugar,  1  small  tablespoon  of  Knox  gelatine,  dissolved 
in  a  little  milk.  Stir  all  together,  and  flavor  with  vanilla; 

1  cup  of  cocoanut;  bake  with  under  crust  only. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Ripe  Currant  Pie 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  ripe  currants  crushed,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  water,  1  large  tablespoon  flour,  yolks  of 

2  eggs,  whites  for  Meringue.      Mrs.  C.  R.  Brewer. 

Pineapple   Pie 

One  pint  pineapple  juice,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch,  1  cup  sugar.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  Add  1 
cup  of  pineapple  pulp  when  cool.  Put  in  pie  shell  and 
cover  with  whipped  cream.  The  juice  of  1  lemon  can 
be  added.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Smith. 

Cream  Pie 

One  pint  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs  (keep 
whites  for  frosting) ,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  3  table- 
spoons of  corn  starch.    Mix  sugar  and  egg  well  together. 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  87 

Let  cornstarch  and  milk  boil  a  little  before  adding  egg 
and  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  crust.  When 
crust  is  in  the  pan,  prick  with  a  fork.  If  you  have  a  per- 
forated pie  tin,  then  it  is  not  necessary.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Mrs.  Hattie  H.  Austin. 

Sour  Cream  Pie 

Beat  1  egg,  add  1  cup  sour  cream  and  1  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Beat  well  and  mix  together  2  teaspoons 
flour,  \  teaspoon  cinnamon,  \  teaspoon  cloves  and  \ 
teaspoon  salt.  Add  to  the  above,  then  add  \  cup  chopped 
raisins.     Make  with  two  crusts. 

Miss  Myrtle  C.  Ellis. 

Southern  Sugar  Pie 

Three  cups  light  brown  sugar,  \  cup  melted  butter, 
\  cup  cream,  3  eggs,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Bake  without 
top  crust  in  slow  oven  until  filling  is  solid. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Jones. 

Butter  Scotch  Filling  for  Individual  Pies 

One  egg  yolk,  1  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk 
3  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons 
water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  everything  to  yolk  and 
cook  in  double  boiler.  This  filling  is  for  four  individual 
pies,  serve  with  whipped  cream.  If  large  pie  is  desired, 
double  the  rule.  Whites  of  eggs  may  be  used  for  meringue 
in  place  of  whipped  cream.    Mrs.  Waldo  Jennings. 

Use  Titus  &  Hicks  GOLDEN  ROD  FLOUR  for  all  Pastry  work. 
IT  IS  THE  BEST. 


88  PASTRY    AND   PUDDINGS 

Fruit   Pie 

Take  2  lemons,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  and  remove  the 
seeds;  chop  the  rind  and  pulp  very  fine  with  1  cup  of 
seeded  raisins,  add  the  juice,  \  cup  of  cold  water,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  1  \  cups  of  sugar.  Bake  between  2  crusts 
45  minutes.  Mrs.  A.  D.  Ordway. 

Jam  Pie 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  with  1  cup  sugar,  2  level 
tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  thick  jam  or  4  thin. 
Put  into  crust,  bake,  and  beat  whites  of  eggs  for  top. 

Mrs.  R.  D.  Sleight. 

Peach  Cobbler 

Pare  1  doz.  ripe  peaches,  place  in  basin  and  add  1  cup 
sugar.  Bake  \  hour.  Prepare  a  dough  as  follows:  2  eggs, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour  (heaping),  2  large  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  heaping  tablespoon  sugar, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  melted  and  added  last  thing.  Turn 
the  juice  off  the  cooked  peaches,  leaving  fruit  in  the 
basin,  pour  the  dough  over  them  and  bake  20  minutes. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  mixed  with  the  juice  of  the 
peaches.   Canned  peaches  can  also  be  used. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Sherwood. 

Banburys 

One  cup  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  mixed  with  the  raisins. 
Make  a  rich  pie  paste  and  cut  into  small  circles.  Fill 
them  with  the  raisins,  and  fold  together  like  turnovers. 
Pick  with  a  fork  and  bake  them.     Mrs.  F.  H.  Gray, 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  89 

English  Plum  Pudding 

One  pound  raisins,  2  ozs.  citron  and  1  oz.  each  of 
candied  orange  and  lemon  peal  sliced,  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon,  4  oz.  shelled  almonds, 
blanched  and  cut  in  several  pieces,  1  pound  of  currants, 
rubbed  in  flour  in  a  sieve  to  free  from  stems,  1  pound  of 
suet  chopped  and  rubbed  with  4  tablespoons  of  flour, 
1  lb.  light  coffee  sugar,  1  lb.  of  the  inside  of  a  baker's 
fresh  loaf  of  bread.  Mix  thoroughly  with  fruit, 
together  with  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Over  all  poor  §  cup  rather  strong 
coffee.  Cover  the  bowl  containing  the  mixture,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place  a  day  or  two.  Then  add  eight  eggs 
and  enough  sweet  cream  to  moisten.  Have  the  pudding 
mold  well  buttered  and  dusted  with  flour.  Press  the  pud- 
ding in  leaving  about  two  inches  for  pudding  to  swell. 
Put  buttered  paper  over  pudding,  and  close  mold  tight. 
Boil  or  steam  steadily  for  ten  hours.  Do  not  open  until 
it  is  to  be  served.  Before  using  boil  again  for  two  hours. 
Nice  to  make  several  weeks  before  needed.  Serve  with 
rich   sauce. 

Mrs.   Louise  S.   Boughton,   Pasadena,   Calif. 

Christmas  Pudding 

One  cup  raw  apples,  1  cup  raw  carrots,  1  cup  raw 
potatoes,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  raisins,  1|  whole 
wheat  flour,  §  melted  butter,  £  cup  citron,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Put 
apples,  carrots  and  potatoes  through  food  chopper 
several  times.    Cream   sugar  and  butter  and  add  to  the 


90  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

chopped  mixture.  Also  add  spices,  soda,  raisins,  flour 
and  citron.  Mix  thoroughly  and  steam  three  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce.  Miss  Lenna  Cooper. 

Plum  Pudding 

One  and  one-half  cups  chopped  suet,  |  cup  molasses, 
1  \  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  pound  raisins,  §  teas- 
spoon  soda.  Spices  to  taste.  Two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  eggs,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  nut  meats,  \\ 
cups  flour,  1  cup  bread  crumbs.   Steam  for  hours. 

Mrs.  Edwin  Barnes. 

Suet   Pudding 

Three  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  finely  chopped 
suet,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour, 
and  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda.  Steam  three  hours. 

Sauce. — One  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter,  yolk  of  one 
egg,  3  teaspoons  of  corn  starch.  Add  l£  cups  hot  water. 
Last  stir  in  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Hicks. 

Suet   Pudding 

One  cup  of  suet,  2  cups  of  raisins,  4  cups  of  flour,  \  cup 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg.  Steam  three 
hours. 

Sauce. — Beat  to  a  cream  \  cup  of  sugar,  and  \  cup  of 
butter.  Let  come  to  a  boil  3  cups  of  water  and  \  cup 
of  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon  and  nutmeg.  Pour  over  but- 
ter and  sugar  when  ready  for  table. 

Mrs.   C,   E,  Thomas. 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  91 

Date  Pudding 

One  cup  gran,  sugar,  §  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  §  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats,  1  cup  dates  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  40  minutes.  Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Helen  Davis  Chope,  Detroit. 

Date  Pudding 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  dates  cut  in  small  pieces, 
1  cup  milk.  Mix  together.  Add  1  cup  crackers  crumbs, 
1  cup  walnut  meats.  Place  in  pan  with  hot  water,  and 
cook  |  hour.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Ordway. 

Fruit  Pudding  Sauce 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  f  cup  of  butter, 
1  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  flour,  a  little  cloves,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Mix,  and  add  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  and 
cook  until  it  thickens. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Partridge,  Denver. 

Pudding  Sauce 

One  quarter  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  milk, 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Cook  about  eight  minutes.  Pour  this 
onto  the  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs.     Flavor  with 


Buy  Baked  Goods  of  D.  B.  TOTTLN 

33  IMOFtTM    JEF-F-ERSOM 


92  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

a  little  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  4  tablespoons 
of  cherry  juice  or  dissolved  currant  jelly. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Jones. 

Cottage  Pudding 

One  large  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
milk,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  Nellie  Hawxhurst. 

Sauce  for  Cottage  Pudding 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  f  cup  butter, 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Mix  and 
add  2  cups  boiling  water.    Cook  till  it  thickens. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Graham  Pudding 

Take  1|  coffee  cups  of  Graham  flour,  §  coffee  cup  of 
molasses,  £  coffee  cup  of  butter,  \  coffee  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
1  egg,  1  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  \  cup  of  raisins,  \  cup  of 
currants;  salt  and  spice  to  taste.      Steam  2\  or  3  hours. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Minty. 

Sauce  for  Graham  Pudding 

Two  eggs  and  f  cup  of  sugar,  well  beaten,  then  add  \ 
cup  melted  butter.  Mrs.  T.  H.  Jennings. 

Raisin  Puffs 

Two  eggs,  1-3  cup  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  fine  and 
floured,  2  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Steam  one  hour.    Serve  with  following  sauce. 

Mrs.  Alice  Henika. 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  93 

Hard  Sauce 

One  and  one-half  cups  pulverized  sugar,  \  cup  butter, 
yolk  1  egg,  1  dessert  spoon  vanilla.  Work  this  in  a  large 
bowl  until  it  is  light  and  looks  almost  fluffy. 

Mrs.  Fred  W.  Gage. 

Foam  Pudding  Sauce 

Take  4  tablespoons  of  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  all  beaten  to  a  cream.  Add 
the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  to  the  whole  1  gill  of  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  very  fast.    Flavor  with  lemon  or  rose. 

Mrs.   H.   G.   Brooks. 

Steamed   Pudding 

One  cup  of  sugar,  |  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk, 
3  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  3  cups  of  flour. 
Steam  one  hour.  Serve  with  sweetened  or  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  R.  B.  Merritt. 

Foamy  Sauce 

One  teaspoon  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs.  Mix 
butter,  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  water  in  top  of  double 
boiler,  heat  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  yolks  of  eggs 
slightly  beaten  and  just  before  serving  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  stiff.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.    Ralph    W.    Harrert. 


Hartio  Art  tleeivorft  Shop 


STAMPED  GOODS,  HEMSTITCHING, 

72  W.  MAIN  STREET 


94  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

Steamed  Molasses  Pudding 

Three  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  dark  molasses,  1  cup  of 
melted  butter,  1  cup  of  hot  water,  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Steam  2  or  3  hours.  Serve  with  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar 
worked  to  a  cream,  with  1  coffee  cup  of  hot  water  added. 
Seed  and  chop  fine  §  cup  of  raisins ;  add  to  the  sauce,  and 
let  it  boil  to  flavor  the  sauce.     Mrs.  C.  H.  Hinman. 

Sponge  Pudding 

Three  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  molasses,  \  cup  of  butter, 
1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg, and  salt  to  taste,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  currants, 
citron  if  liked.    Steam  2  hours. 

Sauce. — Three  eggs,  whites  beaten  separately,  h  cup  of 
pulverized  sugar  beaten  with  the  yolks.  Mix  all  together 
and  if  very  stiff  add  a  little  cream. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Shepard. 

Tailor  Duff 

One  egg,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  |  cup  molasses,  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  1  scant  tablespoon  of  soda 
in  \  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  \  cups  flour.  Beat  well  after 
each  ingredient.  Steam  in  buttered  mould  one  hour. 
H  Sauce. — \  pint  of  cream  whipped  very  stiff,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  \  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  cup  of  pulverized  sugar, 
Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  and  beat,  add  the  cream  just  be- 
fore serving.  Mrs.  J.   N.   Decker. 

Lemon   Pudding 

One  quart  of  milk,  6  eggs,  8  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,   1  lemon.  Beat  the 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  95 

yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  flour,  and  butter  together,  and  stir 
in  the  milk  scalding  hot.  When  cold,  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon. 
Bake  like  custard,  and  eat  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  Chapin. 

Lemon  Pudding 

One  pint  of  scalded  milk,  1  pint  of  crumbs  of  any  white 
cake,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Bake. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  cover  the  pudding  with 
it,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  lightly  browned. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Partridge,  Denver. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

One  half  cup  of  yellow  meal,  1  quart  of  milk,  3  eggs, 
|  cup  of  molasses,  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  £  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon  and  mace.  Scald  salted  meal  with  water, 
heat  the  milk  in  farina  kettle,  stir  in  the  scalded  meal, 
and  boil,  stirring  well.  Beat  eggs  light,  put  in  butter  and 
molasses  stirred  until  several  shades  lighter,  add  spice, 
and  lastly  batter  from  farina  kettle,  with  \  cup  of  raisins 
Put  all  in  a  greased  dish,  and  bake  f  of  an  hour. 

Sauce. — One  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter, 
stirred  to  a  cream,  adding  last  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg, 
with  vanilla  flavoring  and  nutmeg  grated  over. 

Mrs.  Belle  H.  Ward,  Evanston  III. 

MfC    I       M   QlaliinffPl*    LADIES  TREATMENT  PARLORS 
iflra.  L,.  iTl.OKCIIlllgCr  316  Wara"  Building  Phone  2898 


96  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  Indian  meal, 
2  tablespoons  of  flour  stirred  together  and  scalded  in  the 
milk;  then  put  in  a  baking  dish,  and  add  1  cup  of  milk 
and  sugar  to  taste,  with  nutmeg  and  salt,  and  small  lump 
of  butter.    Bake  till  it  wheys. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Ellsworth. 

Swiss  Pudding 

One  tea-cup  of  flour,  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  1  pint  of  milk,  5  eggs.  Grate  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  into  the  milk,  which  put  on  the  stove  in  the  double 
boiler.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  pour  the  boil- 
ing milk  on  this,  and  return  to  the  boiler.  Cook  five 
minutes,  stirring  the  first  two.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  the  sugar  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  mixture; 
remove  from  the  fire  immediately.  When  cold,  add  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  a  3  quart  mould  well 
buttered,  turn  the  mixture  into  this,  and  steam  forty  min- 
utes. Turn  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  without  delay,  with 
rich  sauce.   This  will  serve  nine  persons. 

Mrs.  Susie  Broderick 

Sauce 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the 
butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  sugar  gradually.  When 
very  light,  add  1  teaspoon  vinegar  and  currant  jelly, 
cherry  juice  or  any  acid  juice  to  taste.  Place  the  bowl 
in  basin  of  hot  water,  and  stir  for  two  minutes.  The 
sauce  should  be  smooth  and  foamy. 

Mrs.  Susie  Broderick 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  97 

Brown  Betty  Pudding 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  of  chopped  apples,  * 
cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  bits.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  put  in  a  layer  of 
apples,  then  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  butter,  spice,  and  so  on. 
Serve  hot  with  sugar,  cream, 

Miss  Emily  Wilson. 

Hard  Sauce 

One  half  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  sifted, 
£  cup  of  milk.  Cream  butter  with  the  hand,  add  slowly 
the  sugar,  then  the  milk,  and  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring. 
When  hard,  mould,  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  L.W.  Partridge,  Denver,  Col. 

Tapioca   Pudding 

One-half  cup  of  tapioca  soaked  and  steamed  in  1  §  pts. 
water  in  oatmeal  cooker  till. transparent.  Turn  into  a 
baking  dish,  add  a  little  salt,  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  and 
cover  the  top  with  peaches  halved  and  pared.  Bake  half 
an  hour.   Serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Mechem,  Chicago,  III. 

Tapioca  and  Apple  Pudding 

Soak  a  large  cup  of  tapioca  in  a  quart  of  tepid  water,  for 
at  least  3  hours.  Prepare  enough  nice  tart  apples  to  fill  a 
2  quart  pudding  dish  2-3  full.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  to  the 

Use  Snyder's  Superior  Extracts 


98  PASTRY   AND    PUDDINGS 

soaked  tapioca,  pour  it  over  the  apples,  and  bake  1  hoar. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Miss  Emily  Wilson. 

Tapioca  Pudding 

One  cup  of  tapioca;  cook  in  water  until  clear  and  ten- 
der, then  add  1  cup  of  dark  brown  sugar,  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Susie  Broderick,  Elkhart,  Ind. 

Egg  Pudding 

One  quart  of  milk,  6  eggs,  salt,  9  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Put  in  a  bag  and  boil,  or  bake  in  a  pudding  dish.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  butter  stirred  to  a  cream;  flavor  to  suit. 

Mrs.   Clara   Gilman. 

Prune  Pudding 

Take  1  pound  of  French  prunes,  cook  in  water  until 
soft.  Strain  and  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  the 
whites  of  5  eggs.  Put  in  a  pudding  dish;  place  the  dish 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Serve 
either  hot  or  cold  with  cream.  Mrs.  Maude  C.  Ward. 

Snow-Flake  Pudding 

One  quart  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  \  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  part  of  the 
milk,  salt,  and  sugar  on  the  stove,  and  let  boil;  dissolve 
the  corn  starch  in  the  rest  of  the  milk,  stir  into  the  milk, 
and  while  boiling,  add  the  yolks.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Frosting. — Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  £ 
cup  of  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon.   Spread  on  the  pudding, 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  99 

and  put  it  into  the  oven  to  brown,  saving  a  little  of  the 
frosting  to  moisten  the  top.  Then  put  on  grated  cocoanut 
to  give  it  the  appearance  of  snow-flake. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Shepard. 

Apple  Pudding 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  1 §  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Beat  it  thoroughly,  then  add  §  cup  of 
milk  and  1 §  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  2  quart  dish  with  apples  cut  fine,  and  |  lemon 
sliced,  a  little  nutmeg  and  some  sugar.  Pour  the  batter 
over  all,  and  bake  40  minutes.  To  be  eaten  with  a  rich 
sauce.  Mrs.  A.  T.  Metcalf. 

Sauce  for  Batter  Pudding 

Blend  1  tablespoon  with  |  tablespoon  corn  starch. 
Add  |  cup  of  cherry  juice,  |  cup  boiling  water,  2  table- 
spoons sugar.   Boil  and  stir  five  minutes. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding 

Fill  cups  1-3  full  of  sour  apple  pared  and  chopped  fine. 
Pour  over  them  a  batter  made  of  1  cup  of  flour,  \  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  1  well  beaten  egg,  1  \  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  1  \  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  Steam  nearly  1 
hour  and  serve  with  sauce,  cream  and  sugar,  or  maple 
syrup.  Mrs.  Frances  Owens. 


W    l    U I IliSOB  0  SOI!    BoiI,luels'  Cu*  Flowers'  F1°ra!  Designing  Potted  Plants 


100  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 

Baked  Pear  Pudding 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  small  cup  of 
suet  chopped  fine,  a  little  salt,  §  teaspoon  of  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  4  large  pears,  pared  and  sliced,  §  loaf 
of  Graham  bread,  which  has  been  previously  softened  in 
warm  water,  but  is  thoroughly  pressed,  and  well  mixed 
with  the  other  ingredients.  Butter  and  sprinkle  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  pudding  1  hour, 
closely  covered.  Add  1  pint  of  pear  or  plum  juice,  return 
to  oven,  covered  well,  and  bake  slowly  another  hour. 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Maas. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding 

One  pint  milk,  2  rather  rounding  tablespoons  corn- 
starch, 3  tablespoons  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs.  Wet  corn 
starch  with  a  little  of  the  milk  cold.  Heat  milk,  sugar, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  cornstarch,  stirring  till  it 
thickens.  Cook  15  or  20  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Stir 
in  beaten  whites  after  taking  from  the  fire.  Mould,  and 
serve  with  hot  chocolate  sauce. 

Mrs.  Louise  S.  Boughton. 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce 

Three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  one  third  cup  boiling 
water,  one  eighth  teaspoon  salt,  1  square  chocolate, 
2  teaspoons  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  butter,  §  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Cook  sugar,  one  third  cup  water,  salt  and  cho- 
colate until  syrup  threads.  Bemove  from  fire.  Add  2 
teaspoons  boiling  water,  butter  and  vanilla. 

Mrs.   Louise  S,  Boughton, 


PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS  10 1 

Chocolate  Pudding 

One  cup  of  flour,  \  cup  sugar,  §  cup  milk,  1  egg,  butter 
size  of  egg,  one  large  square  of  chocolate,  2  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Mix  sugar,  milk  and  beaten  egg.  Add  melted 
chocolate  and  vanilla.  Sift  into  this  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder.   Add  melted  butter.   Steam  f  hour. 

Sauce. — One  egg  well  beaten,  1  cup  powdered  sugar, 
|  cup  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  cold  water  just  before 
serving.  Miss  Virginia  Winship. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding 

Melt  3  squares  of  Baker's  Chocolate.  Then  add  2-3 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  ^  cup  sweet  milk,  l£  cups  of 
flour  with  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  two  eggs 
together  and  add  to  the  above.     Steam  45  minutes. 

Sauce. — Cream  1-3  cup  of  butter  and  2  cups  of  xxxx 
sugar.  Then  add  well  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Whip  1 
cup  of  cream  and  add,  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.  1  tablespoon  vanila,  &  nutmeg. 

Miss  Myrtle  C.  Ellis. 

Walnut  Pudding 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  beaten 
in  yolks,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  of  nut  meats,  chopped, 
1  teaspoon  each  baking  powder  and  flavoring.    Bake  in 
layers.    Serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 
Mrs.   Bertha  Bush  Minahan,   Green  Bay,   Wis. 

n.  j.  freeman 

8  W.  Main  St.  Bell  Phone  1690 


Central  Drug  Store 


Pure  Drugs,  Medicines,  Toilet  Articles,  Cigars  and  Soda  Water 


102  PASTRY   AND   PUDDINGS 


Cranberry  Pudding 


One  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  f  cup  of  molasses,  1  tea* 
spoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  3  cups  of  flour,  1 
teaspoon  of  soda.  Stir  well,  and  add  2  cups  of  cranberries. 
Steam  1 £  hours.  Mrs.  A.  M.  Minty. 

A  Good  Desert 

In  1  pint  of  flour  stir  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Take  1  tablespoon  of  white  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  salt,  using  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft 
batter.  Place  well  greased  cups  in  a  steamer,  fill  \  full  of 
berries,  cherries,  or  apples.  Pour  in  the  batter  until  the 
cups  are  2-3  full.  Cover  tightly,  and  steam  30  minutes. 
This  will  fill  5  cups.  Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Sterling. 

Peach  Dumpling 

Make  a  light  baking  powder  biscuit  dough,  and  roll 
quite  thin.  Take  pieces  about  4  inches  square,  roll  in 
them  about  2  pieces  of  canned  peaches,  and  a  little  juice. 
Put  in  a  deep  tin,  the  corners  and  edges  underneath. 
Pour  boiling  hot  water  over  them.  Add  to  the  water  a 
great  deal  of  butter,  sugar,  and  the  juice  from  the  canned 
fruit.  Mrs.  Celia  Mandeville. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 

Sift  together  4  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Rub  in 
I  cup  of  butter.  Beat  1  egg  and  add  to  it  one  large  cup  of 
milk  and  stir  lightly  and  quickly  into  the  prepared  flour. 
Roll  in  2  sheets,  \  in.  thick,  laying  one  sheet  on  the  other 


Pastry  and  puddings  103 

and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  While  warm  separate  the  layers 
and  place  butter,  chopped  strawberries,  and  powdered 
sugar  between  the  layers  and  over  the  top.  Cream  may 
be  added.  Mrs.  Justus  L.  Broderick. 

Delicious  Dessert 

Bake  2  sheets  of  sponge  cake  in  long  flat  tins.  Cut 
peaches  into  thin  slices  and  sweeten  them.  Prepare 
cream  by  whipping,  sweetening,  and  flavoring  it.  Put  the 
peaches  between  the  cake,  pour  the  cream  between  the 
layers  and  over  the  top.  This  may  be  used  with  straw- 
berries, also.  Mrs.  Norman  Sage. 

Hot  Chocolate  Dressing 

One-fourth  cake  Baker's  Chocolate,  cover  with  hot 
water,  butter  size  of  walnut,  1|  cups  sugar.  Cook  until 
a  rich  syrup.    Serve  at  once. 

Miss  Louise  B.  Davis. 

Maple  Sauce 

Add  |  cup  hot  maple  syrup  to  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs. 


DESSERTS  AND  CREAMS 


"Human  longings  are  perversely  obstinate;  and  to  the  man  who 
is  longing  for  a  peach,  it  is  no  use  to  offer  the  largest  vegetable 
marrow." 

Snow  Pudding 

Dissolve  \  box  of  Knox  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  boiling 
water,  2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons;  strain,  and  when 
it  begins  to  thicken,  beat  into  it  the  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.    Pour  over  a  soft  custard,  and  serve. 

Mrs.   Walter  Clark. 

Snow   Custard 

Take  \  package  of  Knox  gelatine,  3  eggs,  1  pint  of 
milk  or  cream,  2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  juice  of 
1  orange.  Soak  gelatine  1  hour  in  a  tea  cup  of 
cold  water.  Then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  2-3  of 
the  sugar,  the  lemon  and  orange.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  quite  cold,  whip  it 
together,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  When  it  is  stiff,  pour 
into  a  mold.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  yolks  of  eggs, 
remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste.  When  the 
meringue  is  turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  the  custard 
around  the  base.  Mrs.  Howard  Kingman. 

Use  Snyder's  Superior  Extracts 


DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS  105 

Angel  Food  Dessert 

Beat  thoroughly  together  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons of  currant  jelly,  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  N.  A.  Osgood. 

Peach   Snow-Balls 

Take  1-3  of  a  box  of  Knox  gelatine,  whites  of  3  eggs, 
1  lemon,  rind  and  juice,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  small 
pinch  of  salt.  Cover  gelatine  with  cold  water;  when  soft, 
add  boiling  water  enough  to  make  a  full  pint  or  a  little 
more,  strain  it  on  a  platter.  When  cool,  beat  into  it  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Add  a  little 
sugar,  lemon  juice,  grated  rind,  salt  and  vanilla;  also 
add  about  §  pint  of  canned  peaches  or  other  fruit,  re- 
duced to  a  smooth  pulp  through  a  colander.  Have  fruit 
very  sweet.  Beat  all  together  until  stiff  and  foamy, 
then  put  in  moulds,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Fowler. 

Prune  Whip 

Soak  |  lb.  of  prunes  over  night.  In  the  morning  stew 
them  slowly  till  very  soft.  Sweeten  while  stewing,  then 
mash  them  to  a  paste,  after  removing  the  stones.  Take 
the  whites  of  6  eggs,  beat  very  light  and  stiff,  sweeten  a 
little  to  take  off  the  raw  taste  of  the  egg,  then  beat  thor- 
oughly the  eggs  and  prunes,  mixing  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Get  your  Bridge  Supplies  at  fishers 

J  U  LL  12  WEST  MAIN 


106  DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS 

Bake  15  minutes  in  a  slow  oven,  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  cold,  with  a  thin  custard  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  for 
sauce,  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Baxter  Gilman,  Detroit. 

Prune  Whip 

Fourteen  prunes,  1-3  package  of  Knox  gelatine,  (1 
tablespoon.)  4  egg  whites,  |  cup  nut  meats.  Boil  prunes 
in  water  and  sweeten  to  taste.  To  1  £  cup  prune  juice 
add  \  cup  sugar  and  boil  20  minutes.  Add  gelatine 
dissolved  in  water.  Let  simmer  10  minutes.  When 
cool  beat  well.  Add  prunes  (cut  fine),  fold  in  egg  whites, 
add  nuts  and  pour  into  a  mould.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.   Wendell   L.   Smith. 

Prune  Dessert 

Fourteen  large  cooked  prunes   (cut   up),   little  salt, 
1  scant  bottle  of  cream,  whipped,  1  tablespoon  Knox 
gelatine  dissolved  in  water.     Sugar  to  taste,  vanilla. 
Mrs.  Helen  Davis  Chope,  Detroit.. 

Quince  Souffle 

Take  ripe  fruit,  cut  in  pieces  and  stew  until  tender,  put 
through  a  colander,  sweeten,  and  turn  into  a  deep  dish. 
Make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  pour 
over  the  quinces.  Whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  2 
spoons  of  powdered  sugar,  flavor  to  taste,  and  heap  upon 
the  custard.  Mrs.  L.  W.  Partridge,  Denver. 

Pine-Apple  Spongue. 

One  can  of  grated  pine-apple,  §  box  of  Knox  gelatine; 
put  the  gelatine  in  a  tea  cup,  and  fill  up  with  water.  Put 


DESSERTS    AND   CREAMS  107 

on  the  stove  to  dissolve.  To  the  pine-apple  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  cook  until  thoroughly  done;  pour  in  the  gela- 
tine, and  set  aside  to  cool.  Beat  1  pint  of  cream,  and 
add  when  you  have  beaten  pine-apple  to  a  cream.  Pour 
into  a  mould,  and  serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Mary  McC.  Smith. 

Dandy  Jack 

Beat  up  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  1  quart  milk, 
1  tea-cup  of  sugar,  and  l£  tablespoons  of  corn  starch; 
flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  and  §  tea-cup  of  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
spread  on  top.    Put  in  oven,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 

Miss   Millie   Pendle. 

Refrigerator  Cake  or  Ice  Box  Dessert 

Two  dozen  Lady  Fingers,  1  lb.  almond  macaroons, 
\  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped,  \  lb.  sweet  butter, 
\  lb.  powdered  sugar.  Cream  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  3  with  the  butter  and  sugar  add  almonds  and 
whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Line  mould  with  Lady 
Fingers,  place  layer  of  macaroons  in  bottom  of  mould, 
add  batter  and  macaroons  alternately  until  all  is  used. 
Put  into  refrigerator  until  next  day  until  ready  to  serve. 
Then  add  whipped  cream  on  top  and  decorate  with 
candied  fruit.  Do  not  remove  from  mould  in  which  this 
is  made.    Serve  in  same.  Mrs.  C.  L.  Post. 

Tilt  PAIIlriOt*  Pllff  Mrs*  ALICE  CAMPBELL       ExP"t  OPERATOR 
Vl/>  ■    vWWvl    I    Ml  I    Permanent  Rair  HJavina  304  Ward  Bldg. 

Marcel  Waving 


108  DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS 

Ice  Box  Pudding 

Melt  2  squares  of  chocolate,  stir  in  very  slowly  h 
cup  of  sugar  till  melted.  Remove  from  fire,  add  very 
slowly  i  cup  cold  water.  When  cold  stir  in  beaten 
yolks  of  4  eggs.  Then  cream  J  cup  of  butter  and  1 
cup  powdered  sugar,  add  to  above.  Fold  in  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Line  cake  pan  with  oiled  paper,  spread 
with  layer  of  lady  fingers,  then  add  layer  of  mixture, 
another  of  cake  and  mixture,  and  lastly  a  layer  of  cake 
on  top.  Cover  with  oil  paper.  Put  in  ice  box  for  24 
hours.  Put  on  platter  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Use  3  doz.  small  or  2  doz.  large  lady-fingers. 

Miss   Myrtle   C.   Ellis. 

In  the  above  recipe,  Mrs.  Margaret  Ward  Wahl 
cooks  the  chocolate,  granulated  sugar  and  water  in 
double  boiler  until  smooth.  Adds  slowly  the  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Cooks  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
When  cool  adds  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 


Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

One  package  of  Knox  gelatine,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
1  square  (oz.)  of  Baker's  Chocolate,  3  pints  of  milk. 
Soak  gelatine  for  2  hours  in  the  milk,  then  put  in  a 
double  boiler.  Scrape  the  chocolate  fine,  and  put  in  a 
small  pan  with  2  spoons  of  sugar  and  2  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Then  stir 
in  the  milk,  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  strain 


DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS  109 

into  moulds.     Flavor  with  vanilla.     Let  stand  at  least 
8  hours,  or  over  night.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Orange  Molded  Dessert 

Juice  of  2  oranges,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  \  cup  of  water, 
\  package  of  Knox  gelatine,  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain 
into  a  pint  mould  and  let  it  harden.  Whip  \  pint  of 
cream  stiff.  Sweeten  and  flavor  a  little  and  place  on  top 
of  jelly.  Cover  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  or 
four  hours. 
Mrs.  Bertha  Bush  Minahan,   Green  Bay,   Wis. 

Apricot  Bavarian  Cream 

One  quart  can  apricots  put  through  a  sieve,  \  cup 
sugar,  juice  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  Knox  gelatine,  \ 
cap  cold  water.  Put  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  set  in 
hot  water  until  dissolved.  Put  fruit,  sugar,  and  gelatine 
together.  Let  it  stand  until  it  begins  to  set.  Whip 
\  pint  of  cream,  add  to  mixture  and  mould. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Almond  Custard 

Blanch  3  oz.  of  almonds  and  pound  the  meats  to  a 
smooth  paste  in  a  mortar.  Mix  with  a  little  cream  and 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Add 
1  pint  of  hot  cream  and  stir  thoroughly.  Put  into  cups  or 
a  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

Compliments  of  EISENHOOD  BROS. 


110  DESSERTS    AND    CREAMS 

When  cold  put  whipped  cream  on  top  and  stick  a  few 
almonds  in  the  cream. 

Caramel  Custard 

Melt  |  cup  of  sugar  and  brown  it,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
water  and  1  quart  of  hot  milk,  6  eggs,  \  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Strain  into  a  buttered  mould, 
bake  slowly  \  hour. 

Sauce. — Melt  and  brown  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  1  cup 
of  hot  water,  and  simmer  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Gould. 

Steamed  Custard 

One  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  f  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt. 
Steam  in  steamer  10  minutes  with  nutnmeg  on  top. 
Will  fill  six  cups.  Mrs.  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Orange  Fluff 

Soak  1-3  box  of  Knox  gelatine  in  1-3  cup  of  water. 
After  it  is  dissolved,  double  the  quantity  with  boiling 
water,  then  add  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  juice  of 
1  lemon  and  1  orange,  and  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten 
thoroughly,  and  1  cup  of  orange  picked  fine.  Stir  all 
together,  and  cool  till  nearly  ready  to  jelly;  then  pour 
into  the  mould  where  you  have  previously  arranged 
sections  of  oranges  in  fancy  besigns. 

Mrs.  D.  C.  Simons. 

Orange    Float 

One  quart  of  water,  juice  and  pulp  of  2  lemons, 1  coffee 
cup  of  sugar.  When  boiling,  add  4  tablespoons  of  corn 


DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS  111 

starch  mixed  in  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  15  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly.  When  cool,  pour  it  over  6,  8,  or  10 
oranges,  cut  up  and  sugared.  Spread  with  frosting  of 
3  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  It  is  nice  eaten  with  cream. 
Serve  cold.  Mrs.  0.  S.  Hinman. 

Cherry  Dessert 

Take  1  pint  of  canned  cherries,  dissolve  1  tablespoon  of 
powdered  Knox  gelatine,  and  add  to  cherries.  Pour  in  the 
mould,  and  set  on  ice.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Thorp,  Detroit. 

Chocolate  Cream 

Take  3  ozs.  of  chocolate,  \  lb.  of  sugar,  \\  pints  of 
cream,  \\  ozs.  of  Knox  gelatine,  yolks  of  6  eggs.  Beat 
yolks,  and  add  to  them  chocolate,  sugar,  and  1  pint 
of  cream.  Stir  well.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  the 
same  way  until  it  thickens.  Strain  the  cream,  and  add 
the  gelatine  and  the  remaining  §  pint  of  cream,  whipped. 
Pour  into  mould,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.    Y.    A.    Adams. 

Bavarian   Cream 

Cover  %  box  of  Knox  gelatine  with  water,  and  soak 
until  fully  dissolved.  Grate  2  ozs.  of  chocolate,  and  add 
it,  with  the  gelatine,  to  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  until 
thoroughly  dissolved.  Remove  from  fire,  and  add  \ 
cup  of  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.    Pour  into  a  pan  to 

Compliments  of    MAAS  and  SON 


112  DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS 

cool,  and  stir  until  thick.  Add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream, 
stir  until  well  mixed,then  pour  into  a  mould  to  harden. 
Turn  out,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.   G.   C.   Sterling. 

Italian  Cream 

Dissolve  1-3  box  of  Knox  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  milk 
with  \  cup  of  sugar.  When  cool,  strain  into  1  pint  of 
cream,  previously  whipped  stiff.  Add  1  well  beaten  egg, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  and  place  on  ice  to  harden. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Lady-Finger  Torte 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  8  stale  lady-fingers  rolled 
fine,  5  eggs,  whites  beaten  separately,  f  cup  almonds 
measured  before  grating.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  very 
light.  Add  the  grated  almonds,  lady-fingers,  the  beaten 
whites  last.   Bake  in  two  layers  in  slow  oven  40  minutes. 

Filling. — Small  can  grated  pineapple,  \  cup  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch.  Let  this 
come  to  a  boil  and  cool.    Then  spread  between  layers. 

Mrs.  David  Klein. 

Charlotte  Russe 

One  pint  of  cream,  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  scant  \  oz.  of  Knox  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  gill  of 
hot  milk,  1  small  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Mix  cream, 
eggs,  and  sugar;  beat  in  the  gelatine  and  milk  last.  It 
should  be  quite  cold  before  this  is  added.  Flavor  with 
almond  or  vanilla,  and  stir  in  candied  fruits.     Mould. 

Miss  Louise  S.  Whitcomb. 


DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS  113 

Charlotte  Russe 

Arrange  lady  fingers  around  a  mould,  wash  the  pieces 
with  the  white  of  an  egg  to  make  them  stick  together  and 
dry  in  an  oven.  Put  a  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and 
boil;  beat  4  eggs  and  stir  into  the  milk,  letting  it  just 
thicken.  In  another  dish,  dissolve  a  box  of  Knox  gelatine 
in  a  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  as  for  jelly;  strain  the 
jelly  into  the  custard,  and  stir  gently  until  cold.  Sweeten 
a  quart  of  rich  cream  with  1  lb.  of  sugar,  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  whip,  stir  into  the  custard  when  cold,  and 
turn  into  the  mould;  put  cake  over  the  top,  and  frost. 

Miss   Olivia  S.   Hinman. 

Coffee  Souffle 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  coffee  infusion,  \  cup  of 
milk,  2-3  cup  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs,  \  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  tablespoon  Knox  granulated  gelatine.  Mix 
coffee,  milk,  \  of  sugar  and  gelatine.  Heat  in  double 
boiler.  Add  remaining  sugar,  salt,  egg  yolks  slightly 
beaten.  Cook  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from 
stove,  add  beaten  eggs  whites  and  vanilla.  Mold, 
chill  and  serve  with  cream.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Tyrel. 

Frozen  Peaches 

One  quart  of  peaches,  pared  and  quartered,  1  pint  of 
cold  water,  sweetened  to  taste,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten 
stiff.    Freeze;  stir  very  little;  serve  with  macaroons. 

Mrs.  Chas.  F.  Bathrick. 


Til)  TOD  (\  F1NFIK  CLEANING  PRESSING  &  ALTERATIONS 

IIP  I  UK  ULAIILKj     RUSSELL  SMITH  PROP.      PHONE  4084      43  N.  MCCAMLY 


114  DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS 

Frozen  Pudding 

One  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch,  1  tablespoon  of  Knox  gelatine  (dissolved); 
mix  together.  Let  boil,  set  off  to  cool,  make  a  syrup  of 
1  pint  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  water.  When  boiling,  add 
1  lb.  of  blanched  almonds,  pounded  fine,  1  oz.  of  chopped 
citron,  2  ozs.  each  of  raisins  and  currants,  1  oz.  each  of 
candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  with  1  wine-glass  of 
currant  jelly.  Freeze,  remove  the  dasher,  and  set  away 
to  harden.  Mrs.  R.    R.  Wilder. 

Maple  Puff  (Frozen) 
Two  eggs,  (beaten  a  little),  7-8  cup  of  maple  syrup, 
1   pint  double  cream.  Cook  syrup  and  eggs  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thick  like  custard.    Reat  well  and  when  cool 
add  1  pint  cream  and  freeze.    Makes  one  quart. 

Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 

Ice-Cream 

Three  quarts  of  not  very  thick  cream,  1  quart  of  milk. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Let  it  stand  in  the  freezer  un- 
til very  cold  before  freezing. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Winship. 

Custard  Ice  Cream 

One  and  one-half  cups  milk,  f  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  £  pint  cream.  Scald  milk  and  sugar 
in  double  boiler;  pour  over  eggs,  beating  constantly. 
Return  to  double  boiler  and  boil  four  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Strain.  When  cool  add  vanilla  and  cream. 
Freeze.     Makes  nearly  1  quart 

Mrs.  V.  Howard  Wattles. 


DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS  ll5 


Chocolate  Ice-Cream 

Use  1  pint  of  sweet  cream,  2  pints  of  new  milk,  2  cups 
of  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  very  light,  and  5 
tablespoons  of  chocolate  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk. 
Heat  the  milk  almost  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour  by 
degrees  into  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar.  Stir  in  the  cho- 
colate, and  beat  3  minutes;  return  to  the  inner  kettle, 
and  heat  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cold,  stir  the  cream  into  the  custard,  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Lettie  Godfrey. 

Peppermint  Ice-Cream 

One  half  pound  peppermint  stick  candy,  1  pint  milk' 
1  pint  cream.  Break  candy  and  let  soak  over  night  in 
milk.    Add  the  cream  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Elmer  Brocker. 

Grape-Nuts  Ice-Cream 

Prepare  vanilla  or  any  plain  flavored  ice  cream  in 
the  usual  way.  Just  before  the  cream  congeals  in  freez- 
ing, add  Grape-Nuts  (as  it  comes  from  the  package) 
in  the  proportion  of  two  cupfuls  of  Grape-Nuts  to  one 
gallon  of  ice  cream. 

Courtesy  Postum  Cereal  Co. 

Parfait 

One  cup  whipping  cream,  |  pound  marshmallows. 
Break  up  the  marshmallows  in  the  cream  and  let  stand 

£vf liKino  ItltlHtitru  BR0WN  and  PALMER  HAT  SH0P 

CAVmtlVV  mUllllliy  Successors  to  Ethel  Brayton  7  ARCADE 


H6  DESSERTS   AND   CREAMS 

over  night.  In  morning,  whip  until  creamy,  add  a 
small  can  of  shredded  pineapple.  When  ready  to  serve, 
put  layers  of  this  alternating  with  layers  of  pink  and 
white  ice  cream.     Over  this  pour  chocolate  fudge. 

Chocolate  Fudge. — One  fourth  cake  Baker's  choco- 
late, 1-3  cup  butter.  Melt  the  two  together  in  double 
boiler.  Mix  in  sugar  until  pretty  stiff.  Add  1  cup 
water  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens  slightly. 

Miss  Beatrice  Ensign. 

Orange  Sherbet 

Take  12  oranges,  2  lemons,  1  pint  of  water,  1  lb.  of 
loaf  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  Knox  gelatine.  Let  the 
gelatine  soak  1  hour,  then  dissolve  in  \  pint  of  boiling 
water.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together,  and  let  stand 
until  cold.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons. 
Strain  and  freeze.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Groesbeck. 

Raspberry  Ice 

Take  §  pint  of  raspberry  jam,  and  pour  over  it  \  pint 
of  hot  water.  Let  it  simmer  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes; 
strain  through  a  sieve;  add  \  pint  of  cold  water,  and 
freeze  solid.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  quantity 
is  sufficient  for  five  or  six  persons. 

Mrs.  Frank  Preston. 

Lemon  Ice 

Take  2  tablespoons  of  Knox  gelatine,  1  pint  of  sugar, 
4  lemons.    1  orange,  and  3  pints  of  water.    Freeze. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Sutton,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 


CAKES 

English  Fruit  Cake  or  Wedding  Cake 

One  pound  of  butter,  1  lb.  light  brown  sugar,  9  eggs, 
beaten  separately,  1  lb.  flour,  2  teaspoons  each  of  mace 
and  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  5  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  1  \  lbs.  English  currants, 
1  lb.  seedless  raisins,  1  lb  .  seeded  raisins,  \  lb.  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped,  1  lb.  citron  thinly  sliced 
and  chipped,  \  lb.  mixed  candied  fruits,  \  lb  candied 
cherries,  §  lb.  candied  pineapple.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly.  Sift  flour  with  baking  powder  and  soda 
once,  and  use  half  of  it  to  flour  the  fruit.  Add  spices  to 
the  remaining  flour,  and  sift  four  times.  Then  add  the 
well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  the  spiced  flour  alternately 
to  the  sugar  and  butter,  also  add  the  milk.  Have  the 
floured  fruit  and  nuts  in  a  large  bowl,  pour  the  dough 
over  them  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites,  pour  into  tins  which  have  been  lined 
with  12  thicknesses  of  paper.  Cover  with  two  sheets 
of  paper.  Bake  in  cool  oven  two  hours.  Makes  4  loaves. 
If  one  large  cake  is  made,  steam  3  hours  and  bake  1$ 
hours.  Mrs.   Edwin  Barnes. 

Fruit  Cake 

One  pound  flour,  1  lb.  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  butter,  8 
lbs.  raisins,  2  lbs.  currants,  2  lbs.  citron,  10  eggs,  1  tea- 


JIIHffllUIMI 


31  ARCADE 

LUNCHES  TEAS 

SUPPERS  GIFTS 


118  CAKE 

spoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon, 
2  nutmegs,  2-3  cup  dissolved  currant  jelly  and  1-3  cup 
grape  juice,  2-3  cup  molasses.  Brown  part  of  the  flour 
and  chop  half  the  raisins.  Bake  very  slowly  several 
hours.  When  cold,  cover  cake  with  thick  boiled  frost- 
ing and  leave  in  the  tin  until  used.  Better  if  made  sever- 
al weeks  before  using. 

Mrs.  T.  B.  Skinner. 

Fruit  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  1  £  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  \ 
cup  of  molasses,  \  cup  of  water,  3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  equal  quantities  of 
cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  allspice,  and  ginger,  1  lb.  of 
raisins,  stoned  and  chopped,  2  lbs.  of  currants,  \  lb.  of 
citron,  and  the  same  of  prepared  lemon  peel.  Bake 
slowly.  Mrs.  Mary  B.  Adams. 

Coffee  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  molasses, 
1  cup  strong  coffee  as  prepared  for  the  table,  4  eggs 
1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  of  grated  nutmeg,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  cur- 
rants, 4  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  Louise  S.  Boughton. 

Spice  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  light  brown  sugar,  \  cups  short- 
ening (butter  or  lard),  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  \\  cups 
flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  \  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  nutmeg,  \  cup  raisins,  \  cup  nut  meats  if  desired 


CAKE  119 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  sour  milk  in 
which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved,  the  flour,  into  which 
the  spices  have  been  sifted;  and  lastly  the  nuts  and  rais- 
ins. Mrs.  V.  Howard  Wattles. 

Pork  Cake 

One  pound  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  of 
soda,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  molasses, 
1  pound  of  raisins  and  currants  mixed,  8  cups  flour. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brown. 

White   Fruit   Cake 

One  tea-cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  8 
eggs,  beaten  light.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  a 
wine-glass  of  lemon  and  rose  water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  I  lb.  of  citron,  cut  up,  1  cup 
of  cocoanut,  \  lb.  of  blanched  almonds;  chop  and  mix 
with  5  cups  of  flour.   Bake  1  hour. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Angel's  Cake 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  whipped  stiff;  \\  tumblers  of  sugar 
with  4  tablespoons  of  water,  boil  until  it  hairs.  Beat 
sugar  into  eggs  until  rather  cool.  Add  \  pint  well  sifted 
flour,  1  teaspoon  each  of  corn  starch  and  cream  tartar 

"do  to  ram  first"  *ZZ.'ZSZ'Z* 


120  CAKE 

and  a  little  salt.  Bake  40  minutes  in  slow  oven;  turn 
over  on  a  plate,  and  leave  undisturbed  40  minutes. 
Flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  C.  F.  Bock. 

Angel's  Food 

One  and  one-half  tumblers  of  sugar,  measured  after  the 
sugar  has  been  sifted  4  times,  1  tumbler  of  flour,  measured 
after  the  flour  has  been  sifted  3  times.  Add  1  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar,  and  sift  again.  Beat  the  whites  of  11  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  using  a  fork,  not  a  Dover  egg-beater.  Add 
the  sugar,  and  beat  10  minutes.  Stir  the  flour  in  lightly, 
and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  an  Angel's  Food 
tin  about  40  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Do  not  open  the 
oven  during  the  first  15  minutes.  When  baked,  turn 
over  on  feet  until  cold.  Do  not  grease  the  pan. 

Mrs.   N.  P.   Hawxhtjrst. 

Sunshine  Cake 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  |  teaspoon  salt, 
1 1  cups  flour,  1|  cups  sugar,  \  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  whites  stiff,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually. Beat  yolks  till  lemon  color  and  add  whites. 
Add  flour  gradually  and  beat  little  as  possible,  using 
egg  beater  entirely.  Put  in  cold  oven  and  leave  fire 
very  low.  Mrs.  A.  B.  Williams. 

Sunshine  Cake 

Whites  of  11  eggs  beaten  stiff;  add  gradually  1 1  cups  of 
granulated  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  with  the  peel 
of  half  an  orange  grated,  and  three  teaspoons  of  juice. 
Add  to  the  whites  1  cup  of  flour  sifted  3  times,  in  which  is 


CAKE  121 

put  1  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar;  add  to  the  above.  Sift 
flour  and  sugar  3  times,  measure  each  after  one  sifting. 
Sift  cream  tartar  with  flour,  beat  quickly  and  well.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  50  minutes.  Do  not  grease  the  pan. 
Turn  up  side  down  on  a  sieve. 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Partridge,  Denver,  Col.. 

A  Simple  Sponge  Cake 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  and  then  together,  1 
scant  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  flour  and  l£  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  £  cup  boiling  water,  vanilla.  Bake 
slowly  at  leasts  hour  in  tube  pan.  Delicious  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Ralph  Holmes. 

White  Sponge  Cake 

One  half  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  flour,  \  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  extract  of 
lemon;  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  cream  of 
tartar  mixed  with  flour.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  put  in  a  cup,  and  fill  the  cup 
with  thick,  sweet  cream;  add  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  1$ 
cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  %  teaspoon  of 
soda,  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  quickly  in  a  small  deep  tin, 
cover  with  hot  icing.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Use  Snyder's  Superior  Extracts 


122  CAKE 

Beautiful  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter,  good  measure,  3 
cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  Belle  Ward, 

Evanston,    III. 
White  Cake 
One  cup  of  sugar,  scant  \  cup  of  butter,  whites  of  3  eggs 
\  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,     and  2  or  3  drops  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Florence  Whitcomb  Welch. 

NlCHOLASVILLE,    Ky. 

Ice-Cream  Cake 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter,  beaten 
to  a  cream,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  add  a  tablespoon  at  a 
time  until  all  is  added  to  sugar  and  butter;  then  stir  in 
\  cup  of  corn  starch,  whites  of  6  well-beaten  eggs,  2\ 
cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  vanilla.  Add  citric  acid,  a  piece  the  size  of  a  pea 
dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Put  \  of  the 
citric  acid  in  the  cake,  the  rest  in  the  frosting. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Titus. 

Corn  Starch  Cake 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter,  \  cup 
of  corn  starch  mixed  in  \  cup  of  milk,  1  \  cups  of  flour,  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Julia  S.  Thompson,  Rensselaer,  Ind. 

Tilden  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  pulverized  sugar, 
yolks  of  4  eggs  add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour  al- 


CAKE  123 

ternately  with  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  very  stiff, 
\  cup  corn  starch,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  stirred 
into  the  milk,  as  you  add  it.  Two  teaspoons  of  lemon 
extract.  Mrs.   C.   L.   Post. 

Guest  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour,  5 
eggs  or  10  whites  of  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  whites  separately.  Flavor 
to  taste.  Miss.  0.  S.  Hinman. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter,  small 
measure,  whites  of  4  eggs,  f  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of 
flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  hickory-nut 
meats,  other  nuts  if  you  like.       Mrs.  A.  T.  Havens. 

Walnut  Maple  Cake 

One  third  cup  butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  eggs, 
|  cup  milk,  1  and  1-3  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 1  teaspoon  vanilla,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  chopped 
walnut  meats.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  yolks  of 
eggs  and  milk,  then  add  flour  which  has  been  sifted 
twice  with  baking  powder.  Add  vanilla,  salt  and  wal- 
nuts. Lastly,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in 
loaf  in  angel  cake  pan  45  minutes.    Frost  as  desired. 

Mrs.  Victor  I.  Minahan. 

Sour  Cream  Cake 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  beat 
together.   Add  1   cup   sour  cream  in  which  \  teaspoon 


124  CAKE 

soda  has  been  stirred.  Beat.  Add  l£  cups  flour  and  1 
tablespoon  more,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat 
thoroughly.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Lyman. 

Best  One  Egg  Cake 

One  and  f  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  sift  together.  Break  1  egg  into  measuring  cup 
and  fill  cup  with  sweet  milk.  Pour  into  sifted  mixture, 
and  beat  well.  Add  12  teaspoons  melted  butter.  Beat 
again,  and  add  vanilla.  Good  for  either  layer  or  loaf 
cake.  Mrs.  James  Redner. 

Custer  Tea  Shop  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  £  cup  butter,  §  cake  Baker's  choco- 
late, 3  eggs,  2  \  cups  flour,  good  pinch  of  salt,  1  rounding 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  \  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in 
two  layers.  *  /  k^/j  W(LCir 

Filling. — 1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  \  cake  Baker's 
chocolate,  §  cup  nut  meats,  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter. 
Let  come  to  a  boil  and  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  \  cup  cold  water.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Frosting. — 1\  cups  sugar,  1|  squares  Baker's  chocl 
olate,  |  cup  cream.  Let  boil  until  each  drop  forms  a 
little  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  When  almost  cold 
beat  and  beat  and  beat. 

Mrs.  Fred  I.  Griswold. 

Devil's  Food 

One-half  cake  German  sweet  chocolate,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  mix  together.  Add  §  cup  boiling  water.  Let 
stand.     Take  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,   \  cup  butter, 


CAKE  125 

i  cup  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  2  large  cups  flour,  2  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

■  Filling. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  cream, 
1  large  tablespoon  butter,  2  teaspoons  corn  starch. 
Mix  corn  starch  with  sugar  and  add  the  cream  and  butter. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Ice  with  cho- 
colate or  caramel  frosting. 

Miss  Beatrice  Ensign. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  1  scant  tablespoon 
butter.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Mix  2  large 
teaspoons  baking  powder  in  2  cups  flour.  Add  1  cup 
milk  and  the  flour,  a  little  at  a  time,  then  the  stifly 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Stir  in  double  boiler  h  cake 
Baker's  chocolate  and  a  scant  h  cup  milk  until  like  paste; 
take  from  fire  and  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  1 
cup  powdered  sugar,  vanilla.  Let  this  partly  cool  and  then 
stir  into  the  cake.  Bake  in  three  layers  and  put  together 
with  chocolate  frosting. 

Chocolate  Frosting. — Disolve  \  cake  Baker's  choc- 
olate in  \  cup  milk  as  for  cake.  Take  from  fire  and  stir 
in  1  cup  powdered  sugar.  When  nearly  cool  add  it  to 
frosting  made  by  beating  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  froth, 
to  which  is  added  a  little  at  a  time  1  cup  powdered 
sugar.  \  teaspoon  vanilla.       Nellie  P.  Hawxhurst. 

A  Vassar  Girl's  Delicious  Chocolate  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  1  egg  ,  £  teaspoon 
soda,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate. 
1  cup  flour  and  2  teaspoons  more.     Cream  sugar,  butter 


126  CAKE 

and  egg.  Cook  chocolate  in  §  the  milk.  When  cool, 
add  to  mixture,  then  the  other  \  cup  milk  and  the  flour. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  Ralph  Holmes. 

Cocoanut  Cake 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  \  scant  cup  butter,  1  \  cups 
Swansdown  flour,  \  cup  milk,  1  large  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  vanilla,  and 
little  salt  in  whites  of  eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly.  Sift  flour  twice,  then  measure  and  sift 
three  times.  Alternate  milk  and  flour  to  which  baking 
powder  has  been  added.  Beat  mixture  hard  for  five 
minutes.  Fold  in  beaten  whites  and  bake  in  two  layers 
in  a  very  slow  oven.  The  success  of  this  cake  is  in  the 
thorough  beating  before  the  whites  are  added  and  in 
baking  it  very  slowly.  Light  the  oven  just  before  put- 
ting in  the  cake  and  turn  the  burners  down  half  way. 
It  takes  about  twenty-five  minutes  to  cook.  Frost  with 
boiled  frosting  and  use  either  fresh  cocoanut  or  Baker's 
fresh  grated  cocoanut  that  comes  in  cans. 

Mrs.  Ward  Smith,  Flint,  Michigan. 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour, 
2\  even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  6  eggs. 
Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — 1   cup  chopped  almonds,   1   cup   chopped 


Compliments 


\A/oMs    IVIillinory 

74  WEST  MAIN  STREET 
BATTLE  CREEK.   MICHIGAN 


CAKE  127 

figs,  1  cup  chopped  dates.    Make  a  paste  of  the  fruit, 
and  add  the  nuts.    Frost  on  top  with  white  frosting. 

Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Lemon  Cake 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  butter,  §  cup  water, 
2  cups  sifted  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Filling — 2-3  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  one  lemon, 
and  grated  rind.  Let  boil  well  and  stir  in  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  cook  until  quite  thick. 

This  makes  a  small  three  layer  cake. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Jones. 

Orange  Cake  With  Marshmallow  Frosting 

Two  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  5  egg  yolks,  3  whites, 
2  oranges,  juice  and  rind,  cold  water,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2f  cups  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
beaten  egg  yolks,  then  take  juice  and  rind  (saving  a 
little  to  flavor  the  frosting)  put  in  a  measuring  cup  and 
fill  with  cold  water,  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Sift  flour 
with  baking  powder  twice  and  add.  Then  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites.   Bake  in  two  large  layers. 

Frosting. — Boil  2  cups  sugar  in  \  cup  water  until  it 
spins  a  thread  three  inches  long.  Then  pour  in  a  fine 
stream  over  the  beaten  white  of  2  eggs.  Beat  constantly 
until  very  cool.  Take  \  lb.  marshmallows  and  cut  each 
in  three  pieces  with  scissors  and  stir  in.  The  marsh- 
mallows  should  not  melt  in  the  icing,  which  should  be 
very  light  and  fluffy. 

Mrs.  Bertha  Bush  Minahan. 


128  CAKE 

Orange  Cake 

Two  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  \  cup  water,  1  \  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  yolks  of  5  eggs  and  whites 
of  3,  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  juice  of  \  orange. 
Bake  in  3  layers. 

Filling. — Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  stiff  froth, 
add  1  cup  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  grated  rind  of 
1  orange  and  the  j  uice  of  \  an  orange. 

Mrs.  Nellie  P.  Hawxhurst. 

Almond  Custard  Cake 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  1  \  cups  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter,  \ 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  \  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Fill  three  flat  tins,  one  of  which  is  colored  with 
\  teaspoon  of  pink  coloring. 

Custard. — Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon 
of  corn  starch.  Sweeten  to  taste.  One-fourth  lb.  of 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped. 

Mrs.  Belle  H.  Ward. 

Jelly  Roll 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  water  added  the  last 
thing  before  putting  into  the  oven.  Bake  in  a  square  tin, 
and  spread  jelly  on  under  side;  roll  up  in  a  cloth,  and  let 
cool.  Mrs.  C.  C.  Beach. 

Dried   Apple   Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  molasses,  2-3  cup  of  butter, 
2-3  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda, 
1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.   £  teaspoon  each  of 


CAKE  129 

cloves  and  nutmeg,  1  cup  dried  apples  soaked  over  night. 
Chop  fine  in  the  morning;  cook  in  1  cup  of  molasses  until 
well  done;  3^  cups  of  flour;  \  cup  of  raisins  improves  it. 

Mrs.    A.    M.    Phillips. 

Raised  Cake 

Two  cups  of  bread  dough  when  ready  to  make  into 
loaves,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
raisins,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  all  kinds  of  spices. 

Mrs.   R.   P.   Kingman. 

Spanish    Bun 

Five  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  2  for  frosting,  2  cups 
of  brown  sugar,  f  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
2f  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Cin- 
namon, cloves,  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Use  brown  sugar 
for  frosting,  and  put  on  while  the  cake  is  hot. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  Chapin 

Cream  Puffs 

Take  1  cup  of  hot  water,  |  cup  of  butter ;  boil  together, 
and  while  boiling,  stir  in  1  cup  of  sifted  flour.  Take  from 
the  stove,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste,  When  cool  stir  in 
3  eggs,  1  at  a  time.  Stir  5  minutes,  drop  in  a  buttered 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  25  minutes.  This  makes 
12  puffs. 

Filling. — Take  1  cup  of  milk,  §  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  3 
tablespoons  of  flour ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  both  are 
cool,  open  the  puffs,  and  fill  them  with  the  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  Lou  Rathbun  Williams. 


130  CAKE 

Corn  Starch  Puffs 

One  cup  of  corn  starch,  1  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  f 
cup  of  butter,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff  and  add 
alternately  with  the  corn  starch.  Bake  in  heated  gem 
tins  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.   Frost. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Davenport. 

Cocoanut  Kisses 

To  one  can  "Sweetened  Condensed  Cream"  add  all 
the  dry  cocoanut  (about  \  pound)  possible  to  make  it 
stick  together  without  running.  Drop  by  teaspoonful 
into  buttered  tin  and  bake  very  slowly  about  \  hour. 

Mrs.  Wendell  L.  Smith. 

Meringues 

Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  very  stiff.  Add  1  cup  sugar 
slowly.  Then  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  1  teaspoon  vinegar. 
Shape  with  a  spoon  in  the  desired  form  on  a  buttered 
tin.   Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harbert. 

Post  Toasties  Kisses 

Whites  4  eggs  beaten  stiff;  1  cup  granulated  sugar 
added  slowly;  1  cup  dry  cocoanut;  1  cup  nut  meats; 
3  cups  Post  Toasties.  Drop  by  teaspoonful  into  buttered 
tin  and  bake  \  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.   Wendell   L.    Smith. 

For  Quality    Plumbing   See      HEFFLEY    PLUMBING    CO. 

PHONE  416  27  N.  WASHINGTON  AVE. 


CAKE  131 

Apple  Filling  For  Layer  Cake 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  large  or  two  small  apples 
grated,  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  peel.  Simmer  until 
thickens.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Brewer. 

Sour  Cream  Filling  For  Cake 

One  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  nut  meats 
chopped,  1  cup  raisins  cut  fine.  Boil  until  thick  enough 
to  spread  on  cake.  Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Harrert. 

Milwaukee  Cream  Filling 

One  and  one-half  cups  hickory  nut  meats,  chopped,  1 
cup  of  sour  cream,  sweetened  to  taste,  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  To  be  used  with  a  white  cake. 

Miss    0.  S.  HlNMAN. 
Fig  Filling 

One  lb.  of  figs  boiled  tender  and  chopped  fine,  with  1 
cup  of  seeded  raisins,  1  large  cup  of  sugar,  and  juice  of  1 
large  lemon.  Mrs.  L.  A.  Dudley. 

Almond  Filling 

One  lb.  English  walnuts  meats  chopped  fine,  \  lb. 
sweet  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped.  Put  the  chopped 
nuts  into  boiled  frosting.  Have  a  few  of  each  kind  of 
meats  whole  to  put  on  top  of  cake.  Flavor  with  bitter 
almonds.  Mrs.    G.   A.   Rorertson. 

Malaga  Frosting 

Two  large  cups  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  not  too 
fine.  Put  to  boil  with  \  cup  of  water  and  2  cups  of  sugar, 


132  CAKE 

Boil  to  a  thick  syrup.  Allow  this  to  cool.  Add  the  whites 
of  3  eggs,  2\  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
frosting;  flavor  with  vanilla.         Mrs.  W.  F.  Neale. 

Boiled   Frosting 

One  and  one  half  cups  of  sugar,  water  enough  to 
moisten  sugar  well,  put  on  a  stove,  and  cook  fast  until 
the  syrup  will  hair  as  it  drops  from  a  spoon.  Have  ready 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff;  stir  hot  syrup  into  the  eggs, 
and  beat  until  stiff.  This  will  make  enough  for  a  three 
layer  cake.  Mrs.  G.  A.  Robertson. 

Frosting 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves;  thicken  with  brown  sugar. 

Mrs.  Belle  H.  Ward. 

Caramel  Frosting 

One  cup  of  brown,  or  maple  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut  and  about  4  tablespoons  of  cream  or 
enough  to  moisten  the  sugar,  cook  until  it  threads. 

Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 
Frosting 

Add  enough  orange  juice  to  one  cup  pulverized  sugar 
to  make  a  frosting  stiff  enough  not  to  run. 

Molasses  Cake 

One  cup  of  molasses,  2-3  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour 
milk,  \  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger,  2  teaspoons  of  soda, 
3  1-3  teacups  of  flour.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Whitcqmb. 


CAKE  133 

Hot  Water  Molasses  Cake 

One  cup  molasses,  £  cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  1  cup 
hot  water,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  ginger  (scant), 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2  eggs,  1\  cups  flour. 

Mrs.  Nellie  B.  Davis. 

Ginger  Bread 

One-half  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  \  cup  butter, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  \  teaspoon  cloves,  \  teaspoon 
ginger,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  boiling 
water.  2  \  cups  flour.  Add  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  the  last 
thing  before  baking.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  or  two  square 
tins.  Mrs.  L.  H.  Sabin. 

Colonial  Gingerbread 

One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  \  cup  butter,  \  cup 
granulated  sugar.  Over  above  pour  1  cup  boiling  water, 
in  which  1  level  desert  spoon  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Stir  well  and  cool  mixture.  Add  1  cup  chopped  black 
walnut  meats,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  2\  cups  flour,  and  last  2  well  beaten 
eggs.   Steam  in  2  basins  2|  hours. 

Mrs.  R.  D.    Sleight. 

Molasses  Drop  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  molasses,  \  cup  of  butter  and 
lard,  \  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  of  soda,  2  }  cups 
of  flour,  cinnamon  or  ginger  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  well- 
heated  oven.  This  makes  about  twenty-five  nice  break- 
fast cakes.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Wattles 


i34  CAKE 

Ginger   Drops 

One  cup  of  sour  cream,  1  cup  of  molasses,  §  cup  of 
sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  soda,  and 
ginger,  3  heaping  cups  of  flour.  Drop.  Bake  quickly. 
Add  2  spoons  of  shortening  if  cream  is  not  very  good. 

Mrs.  V.  P.  Collier. 

Ginger  Drops 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  \  cup  of  but- 
ter, 1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  ginger,  and  cloves,  2 
teaspoons  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  2|  cups  of 
flour,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before  baking. 
Baked  in  gem  tins  or  as  a  common  ginger  bread,  and  eaten 
warm ;  with  a  sauce,  they  make  a  nice  dessert. 

Mrs.  M.  M.  Lewis. 

Thick  Ginger  Cookies 

One  pint  of  N.  0.  molasses,  \  coffee  cup  of  shortening, 
\  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger, 
1  \  teaspoons  of  soda.  Put  flour  in  a  pan,  add  molasses 
and  shortening,  stirring  together  lightly;  then  dissolve 
sugar  and  ginger  in  the  water,  and  add;  and  last  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Mix  soft,  knead 
well,  roll  to  about  one-half  inch  in  thickness,  cut  round 
or  in  squares.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Coller. 

Cut  Glass  HOWARD  M.   SAGER  Fancy 

Silverware  JEWELER  Leather  Goods 

54  West  Main  Street 


CAKE  135 

Old  Fashioned  Molasses  Cookies 

One  cup  molasses,  \  cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  butter 
and  \  cup  of  lard,  \  cup  butter  milk  or  sour  milk,  1  egg, 
use  spices,  ginger  and  cinnamon,  allspice,  2  teaspoons 
soda  dissolved  in  little  boiling  water.  Roll  soft  and  cut 
thick.      Bake  quickly.  Mrs.   Ralph  Holmes. 

Ginger   Snaps 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  lard  or  drippings, 

1  cup  of  N.  0.  molasses,  2  teaspoons  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  a  little  salt, 
flour  enough  to  roll  out  easily.  Lay  a  little  apart  on  tins, 
that  they  may  not  run  together  in  baking. 

Miss   Nettie  Ballantine. 

Brown  Sugar  Cookies 

Cream  2  cups  light  brown  sugar  and  1  cup  lard.    Add 

2  eggs  beaten  light,  1  cup  sour  milk,  and  2  teaspoons 
soda.  Beat  all  well.  Add  1  cup  raisins,  nutmeg,  salt, 
vanilla  and  flour.  Do  not  mix  stiff  enough  to  roll  out. 
Flour  the  hands  and  pinch  off  dough  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  roll  in  the  hands.  Put  in  the  pan  and  flatten  out 
with  a  broad  fork.  Makes  about  seven  dozen. 

Mrs.   L.   W.   King. 

Fruit   Cookies 

Three  eggs,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  & 
cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  raisins  chopped,  1  teaspoon  each 
of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  soda;  flour  to  roll  soft. 

Mrs.  Y.  A.  Adams. 


136  CAKE 

Fig  Cookies 

Cream,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  §  cup  butter.  Add  2 
beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sour  cream,  £  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  cream,  \  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup  chopped 
figs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  in  flour.  Enough 
flour  should  be  used  to  make  good  drop  cakes. 

Mrs.  Fred  W.  Gage. 

Wafer  Cookies 

Two  cups  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  4  eggs,  3  pints  of 
flour,  h  teaspoon  of  mace.  These  must  be  made  in  a  cool 
room,  and  cannot  be  made  in  very  warm  weather.  Roll 
very  thin,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  They  keep  indefi- 
nitely. Mrs.  F.  P.  Boughton. 

White  Cookies 

One  cup  of  sugar,  2-3  cup  of  butter,  \  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  egg,  nutmeg. 

Miss  Cora  Leon. 

Drop    Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  melted  butter,  1 
cup  sour  milk,  3  \  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  nutmeg,  2 
eggs,     Drop  on  greased  pan  and  put  a  raisin  on  each. 

Mrs.  Charles  Sterbins. 

Bran  Cookies 

One  half  cup  brown  sugar,  one  half  cup  butter 
one  heaping  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  §  cup  Sultana 
raisins,  \  cup  chopped  walnut  meats,  2  cups  flour,  1  level 


CAKE  137 

teaspoon  baking  soda,   one   heaping    teaspoon    baking 
powder,  2  \  cups  of  bran,  1  egg  and  \  cup  water. 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream;  add  egg  and  beat 
well;  add  water,  mixed  with  baking  soda  and  flour, 
sifted  with  baking  powder;  then  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  mix  thoroughly.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on 
greased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Sufficient  for  thirty  cookies. 

Chef  VanderBroeck,  Hotel  Statler,  Buffalo. 
Courtesy  Kellogg  Corn  Flake  Co. 

Date  and  Oat  Meal  Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  f  cup  shortening, 
creamed  together;  break  in  2  eggs,  beat  hard;  |  cup 
sour  cream  or  milk,  good  pinch  of  salt,  3  cups  ground 
oatmeal  or  two  of  unground;  flour  to  handle.  Roll 
cookies  as  thin  as  possible,  using  white  flour  for  rolling, 
Cut  and  place  1  teaspoon  of  filling  in  center,  and  cover 
with  another  cookie,  pinching  edges  together. 

Filling. — 1  package  dates,  seeded  and  ground,  \ 
cup  sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Cook 
until  thick.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Smith. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  £  cup  cold  coffee,  \ 
teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt, 
2-3  cup  shortening,  2  cups  uncooked  oatmeal,  2  cups 
flour,  1  cup  raisins.  Morna  Eldred  LaPierre. 

POMPI  TMFNT^     Gordon  shoe  company 

VxVyiVir  L.11V1L.1M  1  kJ  28  WEST  MAIN  STREET 


138  cake 

Sugar  Cookies 

Mix  3  cups  of  flour,  1  flat  teaspoon  soda  and  1  cup 
of  butter,  add  3  eggs  and  1  \  cups  of  sugar  beaten  togeth- 
er.    Roll  thin  as  paper  and  bake  on  bottom  of  pans. 
Mrs.  E.  L.  Branson. 

Sour  Cream  Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sour  cream, 

1  teaspoon  soda.    Flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Flavor  with  lemon,  nutmeg  or  vanilla. 

Mrs.  L.  H.  Sabin. 

Caramel  Cookies 

One  half  pound  of  butter  or  1  cup  packed  solid,  1 
cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  4  cups  flour, 
salt,  vanilla.  Roll  in  two  long  rolls  on  board  with  hands. 
Put  in  refrigerator  until  very  cold.   Slice  thin.   Bake. 

Mrs.  Waldo  Jennings. 

Nut  Cookies  with  Chocolate  Frosting 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  \  cup  milk,  1  egg, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,   \\  cup  flour,   1  cup  nut 
meats  broken  up.    Drop  from  spoon  on    buttered  tins. 

Frosting. — 2  cupsxxxx  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cocoa, 
1  teaspoon  butter.  Enough  hot  coffee  to  make  smooth 
to  spread.  Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 

ct  a  TVTPTTVrr1    embroidery  designing   felt  letters 
s  l  i\iYi.r  in  v*  monograms 

151  North  Ave.  Miss  Emily  Scofield  Bell  386  J 


CAke  i39 


Chocolate  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  2  squares  chocolate,  2  eggs  beaten  slightly. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  mix  all  together.  Bake  about 
15  minutes  in  slow  oven.    Cut  at  once. 

Mrs.  Waldo  Jennings. 

Chocolate  Drop  Cookies 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  rolled  cracker 
crumbs,  1  cup  grated  sweet  chocolate,  1  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, 1  cup  nut  meats  slightly  broken. 

Miss   Virginia    Winship. 

Date  Bars 

Two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
water,  1  package  dates  quartered,  1  cup  nut  meats,  1 
cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt. 
Bake  §  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Remove  from  pan  at  once, 
and  cut  in  strips.   Roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  V.  Howard  Wattles. 

Brownies 

Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  scant  \  cup  butter. 
Add  2  squares  melted  chocolate,  3  eggs  whipped  lightly, 
\  cup  chopped  walnuts,  \  teaspoon  vanilla,  \  cup  flour. 
Spread  on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Cut  in 
squares  or  strips.  Miss  Louise  Welch. 

Brownies 

One  cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  \  cup  milk,  1  cup  chopped 
nuts,  two  thirds  cup  flour,  2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate, 


140  CAKE 

vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Gradually  add  milk 
eggs,  and  flour,  salt  and  melted  chocolate,  then  nuts 
and  vanilla.  Spread  thin  in  pans;  bake  15  or  20  minutes. 
Cut  in  small  squares.   Makes  40  squares. 

Mrs.  Nellie  P.  Hawxhurst. 

Fried  Cakes 

One  quart  of  flour,  3  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  2  eggs,  7  even  teaspoons  of  white  sugar,  5  table 
spoons  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  17  tablespoons  of  sweet 
milk,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Measure  the  flour  before 
sifting,  and  put  the  baking  powder  into  it.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together  until  light,  then  add  the  butter  and 
milk  a  little  warm  and  sift  in  the  flour.  Let  stand  5  or 
10  minutes  before  rolling  out,  and  they  will  thicken  and 
not  need  more  flour.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Ward. 

Potato  Fried  Cakes 

Two  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  4  level  tablespoons  melted  butter,  three 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  J  teaspoon  ginger.  Flour  to 
make  soft  dough.  Mrs.  L.  J.  Bush. 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of 
butter,  4  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
nutmeg,  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Mrs.  Walter  Clark. 

QII.LIS    CONSTRUCTION   OO. 

G-erxetrai    Contractors    «5te    :Bx*.ild.e>r» 

135  Hamblin  Ave.  Bell  42 


CAKE  141 

Sour  Cream  Doughnuts 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  the  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  eggs,  2  tea-cups  of 
sugar.  Mrs.  0.  B.  Green. 

Fried   Cakes 

Beat  2  eggs  thoroughly,  and  add  a  scant  cup  of  sugar, 
and  beat  again,  6  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  and  beat 
again.  Sift  into  your  flour  4  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Add  2  tea-cups  of  sweet  milk,  and  a  little  salt. 
Mix  very  soft,  and  cut  with  a  knife. 

Mrs.  V.  C.  Wattles. 

Fried    Cakes 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  sifted  together.  Stir  1  cup  of  sugar 
and  1  tablespoon  of  warm  butter  together.  Add  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk  alternately  with 
part  of  the  flour,  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  re- 
mainder of  the  flour.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  B.  T.  Skinner. 

Crullers 

Three  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  3 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Mix  very  hard  with  sifted  flour, 
roll  very  thin  like  pie-crust,  cut  in  squares  three  inches 
long  and  two  inches  wide,  then  cut  several  slits  or  lines 
lengthwise.  Lay  them  down  on  the  board  edgewise,  and 
dent  them.  Fry  in  hot  lard  a  light  brown. 

Miss  Mary  McNamara, 


JELLIES  AND  CONSERVES 


Jellies   of  Any   Kind 

To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  1  lb.  of  sugar;  set  the  juice 
on  to  boil,  and  while  it  is  boiling,  divide  the  sugar  in 
shallow  pans,  and  heat  in  the  oven,  stirring  occasionally 
to  prevent  burning.  Boil  the  juice  20  minutes  from  the 
moment  it  begins  to  bubble.  By  this  time  the  sugar 
should  be  too  hot  for  the  finger  to  bear.  Should  it  melt 
around  the  edges,  do  not  be  alarmed;  the  burnt  part 
can  be  easily  taken  out.  Throw  the  sugar  into  the  boil- 
ing juice,  stirring  it  rapidly  all  the  while.  Withdraw  as 
soon  as  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and 
take  instantly  from  the  fire.  Will  certainly  jelly. 

Mrs.  I.  L.  Stone. 

Pine-Apple  Marmalade 

Pare  the  pine-apples,  and  pick  out  all  the  little  eyes; 
then  weigh,  and  to  every  lb.  of  ungrated  fruit,  take  f  lb. 
of  sugar.  Grate  as  much  of  the  pine-apple  as  possible, — 
you  cannot  grate  all  the  core, — and  cook  with  the  sugar 
till  it  seems  almost  like  jelly. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Two  oranges,  1  grapefruit,  1  lemon.  Slice  fruit  very 
fine  removing  as  much  of  the  white  pulp  as  possible. 
Save  seeds  of  Grapefruit,  soak  in  one  cup  of  water. 
Cover  fruit  with  as  much  water  as  fruit.    Let  stand  24 


JELLIES   AND   CONSERVES  143 

hours.  Cook  15  minutes  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Add 
water  from  seeds  and  take  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  and 
cook  until  it  thickens.    Skim  often. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Smith. 

Pear  and  Grape  Marmalade 

Take  equal  weights  of  pears  and  grapes.  Wash  and 
stem  grapes  and  cook  in  just  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning.  Press  them  through  sieve  and 
add  pears,  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Let  simmer,  stirring  often  until  pears  are  tender.  Then 
add  f  cup  sugar  for  each  cup  of  material.  Cook  very 
slowly  half  an  hour  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Miss  Virginia  Winship. 

Red  Raspberry  and  Currant  Conserve 

Two  boxes  currants  and  1  of  red  raspberries  cooked 
and  strained  as  for  jelly.  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup 
blanched  almonds  chopped,  not  too  fine;  2  oranges, 
entire,  chopped;  1  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  fruit 
juice  and  pulp.  Boil  down  as  for  any  conserve.  When 
almost  cool  in  the  glasses,  stir  nuts  down  before  cover- 
ing with  paraffine.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Nettels. 

Pear  Marmalade 

Peel  and  dice  8  pounds  pears  and  6  oranges,  let  stand 
with  6  pounds  of  sugar  over  night.  Parboil  the  skins 
of  3  of  the  oranges,  with  the  white  part  removed,  for  20 

MRS.  H.  J.  DOWLING'S     "SR&&& 


144  JELLIES   AND   CONSERVES 

minutes.  Drain,  and  cook  again  until  tender.  Cut 
up  fine  and  add  to  the  marmalade  just  before  it  is  done. 
In  the  morning  drain  juice  from  fruit  and  boil  until 
thick.  Then  add  fruit  and  cook  until  of  the  right  con- 
sistency. Mrs.  L.  W.  King. 

Melange  of  Fruit 

Two  dozen  ripe  peaches,  15  blue  plums,  10  pears, 
2  lbs.  white  grapes.  Pare  and  quarter  peaches,  plums  and 
pears.  Cut  the  grapes  in  halves  and  remove  seeds. 
Cook  with  equal  amount  of  sugar  until  thick  syrup  is 
formed.  The  pieces  of  fruit  should  remain  whole. 
Fill  glasses  and  seal  while  hot.  This  will  fill  12  jelly 
glasses.  Miss  Margaret  Ritchie. 

Peach  Chutney 

One  peck  peaches,  1  lb.  raisins,  juice  of  2  oranges, 
and  grated  rind  of  one-half,  \  lb.  almonds.  Cut  peaches 
in  small  pieces,  chop  nuts  and  raisins.  Add  f  as  much 
sugar  as  fruit,  and  cook  until  thick. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Smith. 

Grape  Conserve 

Five  pounds  of  grapes,  4  pounds  sugar,  4  oranges,  1 
lemon,  1  pound  raisins,  \  pound  walnut  meats.  Run  the 
grape  skins,  raisins,  walnuts,  orange  and  lemon  peel 
through  the  food  chopper.  Cook  the  pulps  and  put 
through  a  sieve.   Then  cook  all  together. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 


R.J.SMITH 


FRESH.  SMOKED  AND  SALTED  MEATS 
PHONE  921  -W  754  MAPLE   ST. 


JELLIES   AND   CONSERVES  145 

Strawberry  Preserves 

Two  and  one-half  quarts  of  sugar,  1  pint  water,  boil 
until  sugar  is  melted.  Add  2  quarts  (heaping)  of  straw- 
berries and  boil  17  to  20  minutes.  Do  not  stir  but  shake 
the  kettle  and  skim.  Pour  in  shallow  pans  and  shake 
often  until  cold.  Shaking  is  the  secret  of  success.  Can 
when  cold.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Hawk. 

Jellied  Currants 

Take  currants  freshly  picked,  stem  and  wash.  To 
every  cupful  of  currants  take  one  cupful  of  granulated 
sugar.  Put  a  little  water  in  granite  kettle,  add  sugar 
and  let  it  boil  to  a  syrup  but  not  until  it  hairs.  Add  the 
whole  currants  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Put  in  jelly 
glasses  and  when  cold,  put  away  as  ordinary  jelly. 

Mrs.   Ralph  W.  Harbert. 

Lemon  Jelly 

Dissolve  2-3  box  of  Knox  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  boil- 
ing water;  add  while  hot  1  large  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  5 
lemons,  and  1  orange.  Place  on  the  back  of  stove,  and 
stir  often  until  thoroughly  dissolved;  then  strain  into 
moulds  to  cool.   Make  the  day  before  using. 

Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Willard. 

Peach  Jelly 

Take  1  box  of  Knox  gelatine,  soaked  in  1  pint  of  cold 
water  1  hour.  Add  rind  of  1  lemon  and  juice  of  2,  2  lbs. 
of  sugar,  2  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  the  syrup  from  1 
can  of  peaches.  Stir  together  in  double  boiler  until 
dissolved.    Strain  in  dishes,  and  when  partly  hard,  put 


146*  JELLIES   AND   CONSERVES 

canned  peaches  (whole)  all  through.  You  can  place 
them  with  a  fork.  Let  harden  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream.   You  can  use  other  fruit  if  desired. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Hinman. 

Fruit   Jelly 

Take  3  bananas,  6  oranges,  1  can  of  pine-apple,  \  box 
of  Knox  gelatine,  1  tea-cup  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  gela- 
tine, put  in  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil.  Cut  the  fruit  in  small  pieces,  and  add  to  the  rest 
just  before  putting  in  the  mould.  The  juice  should  be 
strained  before  adding  to  the  jelly. 

Mrs.  M.  F.  Garfield. 

Coffee  Jelly 

One  pint  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  strong  coffee,  1  \  pints  of 
boiling  water,  §  pint  of  cold  water,  1  box  of  Knox  gela- 
tine. Soak  the  gelatine  2  hours  in  cold  water.  Pour  the 
boiling  water  on  it,  when  it  is  dissolved.  Add  sugar  and 
coffee,  strain,  turn  into  moulds.  Set  away  to  harden. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened. 

Mrs.  T.  M.  Flower. 

Orange    Jelly 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  5  or  6  oranges,  add  water 
enough  to  make  1  quart,  in  which  put  the  orange  peel 
till  well  flavored,  then  drain.  Have  ready  \  box  of  Knox 
gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water. 

£ba$€.  float-music  Store  ■S%?gw 


JELLIES   AND   CONSERVES  14? 

Add  2  cups  of  sugar,  a  little  citric  acid,  and  heat  all 
until  dissolved  and  ready  to  mould. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Primley. 

Preserved  Ginger  Pears 

Eight  lbs.  of  ripe  but  hard  pears,  8  lbs.  of  sugar,  6 
lemons,  I  lb.  of  green  ginger  or  dried  ginger  root.  Cut  the 
pears  into  small  pieces.  Grate  in  a  little  of  the  yellow  of 
the  lemon,  and  put  in  pieces  of  the  rind  with  the  lemon 
juice.  Dissolve  sugar  and  1  tumbler  of  cold  water,  and 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Cook  moderately  2  or  3  hours 
until  clear.    The  ginger  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Mrs.  A.  T.  Penniman. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves 

Take  1  peck  of  smooth  green  tomatoes,  washed,  pared, 
cut  into  quarters  with  seeds  removed.  Have  a  very  rich 
syrup  made  and  add  1  oz.  of  dried  ginger  root,  pounded 
fine.  Drop  in  a  few  pieces  of  tomatoes  at  a  time,  and 
cook  until  clear  and  transparent,  then  skim  out  into 
glass  jars.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick  and  pour  over  them. 
This  will  make  about  2  quarts.  A  nice  dessert  can  be 
made  by  serving  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Simmons. 


PICKLES 


Cucumber  Pickles 

Use  1  tea-cup  of  salt  to  2  gals,  of  pickles.  Scald  brine 
and  turn  over  them  3  days  in  succession.  Then  pour  hot 
water  over  them,  and  let  stand  till  cold,  and  pour  off. 
Scald  vinegar  3  days  and  turn  over  them;  use  fresh 
vinegar  the  last  time,  and  pour  into  the  kettle  a  handful 
each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  and  a  spoonful  of  alum. 
Pickle  nasturtiums  in  cold  vinegar,  and  place  on  the  top 
of  pickles;  tie  up  some  English  mustard  seed  in  a  cloth 
and  put  in,  also  add  3  or  4  green  peppers  and  horse- 
radish. Cauliflower,  onions,  and  tomatoes  can  be  added 
if  desired.  Mrs.  Luther  Holton. 

Cucumber  Pickles 

Line  a  stone  jar  with  horse-radish  leaves,  put  in  the 
cucumbers,  and  pour  over  them  boiling  water,  let  stand 
over  night  or  a  little  longer.  Put  in  a  kettle,  and  cover 
with  vinegar.  Add  alum  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  table- 
spoon salt,  1  handful  of  sugar,  4  or  5  small  green  peppers; 
let  this  scald,  but  not  boil.  They  are  to  be  canned  while 
hot,  adding  a  few  pieces  of  horse-radish  in  each  can.  Will 
keep  years.  Mrs.  Garrett  Decker. 


Correct  ^Bxz&& 

28-30  W.  Main  St.  Telephone  2947 


PICKLES  149 

Sliced  Cucumber  Pickles 

100  small  cucumbers,  sliced,  1  quart  small  onions, 
sliced,  Put  in  layers  with  salt  between.  Let  stand  4  or  5 
hours  then  drain.  Cover  with  vinegar;  add  1  tablespoon 
powdered  alum  and  let  it  stand  4  hours.  Drain.  Mix 
£  lb.  mustard  seed,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  1  teaspoon  black 
pepper,  1  quart  olive  oil.  Mix  slowly  and  pour  all  over 
pickles,  then  add  2  quarts  vinegar. 

Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 

Pickled  Onions 

One  half  peck  rather  small  onions.  Not  necessary 
to  have  pickling  onions.  Peel  and  place  in  earthen 
crock.  Cover  with  warm  water,  not  hot.  Add  1  large 
cup  salt.  Let  stand  over  night.  Drain  and  put  in 
jar.  Take  1  quart  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  1  large 
red  pepper,  chopped,  1  teaspoon  whole  allspice,  1  teas- 
spoon  black  pepper  whole.  Let  simmer  1  hour  and  pour 
over  onions.  Mrs.  T,  H.  Morgan. 

Chunk  Pickles 

Seven  pounds  of  good  sized  cucumbers.  Soak  in  strong 
brine  three  days.  Freshen  three  days,  changing  water 
once  each  day.  Strain,  wipe  dry;  cut  in  chunks.  Boil 
very  slowly  for  two  hours  in  weak  vinegar  and  grape 
leaves,  with  1  tablespoon  powdered  alum.  Drain,  and 
pour  over  pickles  a  syrup  made  of  3  pounds  brown 
sugar,  3  pints  vinegar,  1  ounce  cassia  buds,  1  ounce 
celery  seeds,  1  ounce  allspice.  Heat.  Let  stand  until 
next  day,  then  cover. 


150  PICKLES 

French  Pickles 

To  1  peck  of  green,  sliced  tomatoes  add  7  or  8  medium 
sized  white  onions  also  sliced.  Put  them  in  a  weak  solu- 
tion of  salt  and  water;  cover,  and  let  stand  over  night; 
then  drain  and  put  in  weak  vinegar  and  water,  and  let 
them  come  to  a  boiling  point.  Drain  again,  and  add  3 
bunches  of  celery,  chopped  not  too  fine,  2  or  3  heads  of 
cauliflower,  20  or  30  large  sliced  cucumbers,  1  oz.  of  tur- 
meric, 5  tablespoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  2  of  cloves,  2 
of  black  pepper,  2  of  ground  mustard,  5  green  peppers 
(take  out  seeds  and  chop  fine,)  and  2  lbs.  of  brown  sugar. 
Tie  spices  in  a  thin  bag,  cover  the  whole  with  good  cider 
vinegar,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  2  hours,  stiring  often  to 
prevent  scorching.  Mrs.  Baxter  Gilman,  Detroit 

Mixed  Pickles 

One  doz.  green  tomatoes,  1  doz.  cucumbers,  1  bunch  of 
celery,  1  medium  sized  citron,  cut  in  dice,  1  bunch  of 
cauliflower,  2  doz.  small  cucumbers,  2  doz.  small  white 
onions,  and  1  quart  string  beans.  Soak  in  salt  and 
water  over  night.  Boil  in  1-3  of  vinegar  and  2-3  of  water 
until  tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  5  lbs.  of  sugar,  and  3 
pints  of  vinegar,  \  cassia  buds,  1  tablespoon  of  mixed 
spice.  Put  spice  in  a  bag,  and  boil  in  syrup. 

Miss  Emily  L.  Wilson. 

Piccalilli 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  6  large  onions  chopped 
very  fine;  mix  well  with  one  tea-cup  of  salt,  let  it  stand 
over  night,  drain  off  the  juice,  scald  in  good  vinegar, 
then  drain  again.    Add  3  pints  of  strong  vinegar,  2  lbs. 


PICKLES  151 

of  brown  sugar,  J  lb.  of  white  mustard  seed,  2  teaspoons 
of  cinnamon,  2  ozs.  of  cloves,  a  little  grated  horse-radish, 
2  common  sized  green  peppers.  Boil  all  together  20 
minutes.  Mrs.  P.  Tenney. 

Bordeaux  Pickle 

One  gallon  of  chopped  green  tomatoes,  1  large  head  of 
cabbage  chopped,  1  doz.  onions  chopped.  Mix  the  above 
with  \  pint  of  salt,  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Add  \  oz.  each 
of  turmeric,  celery  seed,  and  whole  peppers,  4  chopped 
green  peppers,  \  lb.  each  of  brown  sugar  and  white 
mustard  seed,  1  gal.  of  good  vinegar.    Cook  1  hour. 

Mrs.  Preston  Lovell. 

Mustard  Cucumber  Pickles 

One  peck  cucumbers  pared,  sliced  and  salted.  Let 
stand  three  hours.  Rinse  and  add  §  dozen  onions  sliced 
thin  or  chopped,  \\  quarts  vinegar,  3  or  more  cups 
white  sugar,  4  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  turmeric, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  ground  mustard,  2  tablespoons 
celery  seed.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  add  cucumbers. 
Cook  5  minutes,  and  seal  hot. 

Mrs.  Fred  I.  Griswold. 

Mustard  Pickles 

Two  quarts  small  white  onions,  1  quart  sliced  cucum- 
bers (large  and  peeled)  1  quart  small  cucumbers;  2 
quarts  green  tomatoes  sliced  thin;  6  green  peppers  cut 

A.  B.  HUDLER,  Optometrist,    76  W.  Main  St. 
formerly  battle  creek  sanitarium,  opt.  dept. 


152  PICKLES 

fine;  1  large  cauliflower.    Put  all  in  weak  brine  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  scald  in  the  brine  and  drain  well. 

Dressing. —  6  tablespoons  (level)  mustard  1  £  table- 
spoons turmeric,  2-3  cup  flour,  11-3  cups  sugar,  2  quarts 
vinegar.  Put  vinegar  on  stove  and  when  hot  add  other 
ingredients  which  have  been  well  beaten  together. 
Add  pickles,  heat  and  let  boil  one  or  two  minutes.  Seal. 

Mrs.  C.  P.  Baker. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickles 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  6  onions  sliced  thin ;  mix 
and  let  stand  over  night  with  one  cup  of  salt;  drain,  boil 
in  1  quart  of  vinegar  and  2  quarts  of  water  15  minutes; 
drain,  and  add  1  quart  of  vinegar,  2  lbs.  of  brown  sugar, 
1  oz.  of  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  each  of  cinnamon 
and  cloves;  boil  15  minutes.  Mrs.  F.  Turner. 

Sweet  Green  Tomato  Pickles 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  sliced,  6  large  onions 
sliced  fine.  Pour  over  one  cup  of  coarse  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Drain  well  in  the  morning,  take 
two  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  boil 
until  tender  (not  too  soft).  Drain  well,  take  one  quart 
of  vinegar  to  6  pounds  of  white  sugar,  (if  you  need  more 
vinegar  fix  in  same  proportions),  i  lb.  of  white  mustard 
seed,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  (powdered).  Two  tablespoons 
of  powdered  cinnamon.  Cook  sugar,  spices  and  vinegar 
until  a  little  thick,  then  add  tomatoes  and  cook  very 
thick.  Add  three  tablespoons  of  grated  horseradish  root 
and  4  green  peppers  which  have  been  soaked  over  night 


PICKLES  153 

in  salt  water  and  cooked  tender  in  clear  water.     Put 
in  cans.  Be  very  careful  not  to  burn  while  cooking. 

Mrs.   Edward   C.   Hinman. 

Peach  Pickles 

Pare  the  peaches,  and  steam  until  a  fork  will  easily 
pierce  them;  put  into  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  while 
hot  a  syrup  made  as  follows:  to  7  lbs.  of  fruit,  take  4 
lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  oz.  of  whole  mace, 
1  oz.  of  stick  cinnamon,  and  cloves  if  liked.  Good  also  for 
pears,  plums,  etc.  Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles 

Pare  and  seed  cucumbers,  and  let  stand  in  weak  brine 
over  night.  !  Drain,  and  boil  in  vinegar  and  water  until 
soft.  Drain  again.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  quart  of  vinegar  to 
3  lbs.  of  sugar  (cassia  buds,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  in 
muslin  bag);  pour  over  cucumbers,  and  let  stand  over 
night;  in  the  morning  scald  all  together,  and  put  in  jars. 

Miss  Julia  Hinman. 

Cucumber  Catsup 

Take  cucumbers  that  are  half  grown,  grate,  and  press 
out  the  juice  thoroughly.  Add  vinegar  to  make  it  of  the 
consistency  of  catsup;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  seal  up  before  putting  away.  Can  be  kept  for 
years.  Miss  Hettie  Wilson. 

FLOWERS   FOR   ALL   OCCASIONS  ^^eNhous¥ 

*        Telephone  1756- J  CRASE  "    628  Maple  Street 


154  PICKLES 

Tomato  Catsup 
One  peck  of  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  of  salt,    table- 
spoon of  black  pepper,   2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoon  of  cloves,   1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,   f  tea- 
cup of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vinegar.     Mrs.  Carrie  Leon. 

Tomato  Relish 
One  peck  of  red  tomatoes,  scalded,  peeled,  and  chopped 
fine,  6  onions  chopped  fine,  4  red  peppers  chopped  fine. 
Let  drain  over  night.  In  morning,  add  1  bunch  (12 
stalks)  celery,  chopped,  2  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  \ 
cup  salt.  If  not  hot  enough,  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 
Boil  2  lbs.  of  granulated  sugar  in  2  quarts  of  vinegar. 
When  cold,  pour  over  the  tomato  and  mix  well.  Stir 
occasionally  for  3  or  4  days,  then  can  and  seal. 

Miss  Olivia  S.  Hinman. 

Cold  Catsup 

One-half  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  (let  drain 
about  \\  hours),  1  tea-cup  of  chopped  onions,  2  table- 
spoons of  ground  mustard,  \  tea-cup  of  salt,  1  cup  of 
grated  horse-radish,  2  bunches  of  celery,  2  green  peppers, 
1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves,  1  quart 
of  vinegar.  The  peppers  and  celery  to  be  chopped  very 
fine.    Seal  in  bottles.  Mrs.  J.  F.  Hinman. 

Currant  Catsup 

Four  lbs.  of  fully  ripe  currants,  1  \  lbs.  of  sugar,  \  pint 
vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  each  of 
ground  cloves,  pepper,  and  salt.  Mash  the  currants,  add 
sugar,  and  cook  until  thick;  then  add  the  rest,  and  put 
hot  into  cans.  Mrs.  S.  0.  Bush, 


PICKLES  155 

Pepper  Hash 

Shave  thin  1  large  cabbage,  chopping  a  little  afterward ; 
then  sprinkle  well  with  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night  to 
drain  out  the  water,  then  chop  1  doz.  peppers  (first  re- 
move seeds),  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  celery  seed,  and  1 
tablespoon  of  mustard  seed.  Mix  all  together  and  pour 
over  cider  vinegar  sufficient  to  cover,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place.  Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Howes. 

Pepper  Hash 

Twelve  green  peppers,  12  red  peppers,  15  good  sized 
onions,  2  quarts  cider  vinegar,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  3 
tablespoons  salt.  Chop  peppers  in  food  chopper  and 
scald  separately,  chop  onions  in  chopper.  Cook  all 
together  in  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Drain  and  cook  until 
tender  in  the  other  quart  of  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt. 

Mrs.  A.  0.  Jones. 

French  Mustard 

Slice  an  onion  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  vinegar.  After  2 
days,  pour  off  the  vinegar.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  cayenne 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  mus- 
tard enough  to  thicken.  Mix,  set  on  stove  and  stir  until 
it  boils.   When  cold  it  is  fit  for  use. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Wilder. 

Pickled  Grapes 

Take  7  lbs.  of  grapes,  3  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  2  ozs.  of 
cinnamon,  1  oz.  of  cloves,  1  oz.  of  mace,  §  pint  vinegar. 

BAKER  DRUG  CO.    2  STORES 

"IN  BUSINESS  FOR  YOUR  HEALTH" 


156  PICKLES 

Pulp  the  grapes,  cook  pulps  well  for  10  minutes,  strain 
through  a  sieve;  add  skins,  with  sugar,  vinegar,  and 
spices.  Cook  \  hour.  Mrs.  S.  S.  Hulbert. 

Chili  Sauce 

Thirty  large  ripe  tomatoes,  six  red  peppers,  10  onions, 
2  stalks  celery,  5  tablespoons  salt,  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
2  cups  vinegar.  Pare,  cut  up  and  cook  tomatoes  while 
preparing  other  ingredients.  If  too  watery  drain  off 
2  cups.  Add  other  ingredients  and  cook  20  or  30  min- 
utes. Mrs.  Walter  Clark. 

Chilli  Sauce 

Sixteen  tomatoes,  1  large  onion,  1  green  pepper,  1 
cup  vinegar,  Stew  2  hours  slowly;  just  before  taking 
from  the  stove,  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  all- 
spice, cloves,  cassia,  ginger,  and  nutmeg,  1  spoon  of  salt. 

Mrs.  V.  P.  Collier. 

Corn  Relish 

Seven  and  one-half  cups  corn  (about  16  large  ears), 
3 %  cups  shredded  cabbage,  1  cup  green  and  red  peppers, 
f  cup  onion,  1  cup  celery,  chopped,  1\  cups  granulated 
sugar,  \  cup  cider  vinegar,  1-3  cup  salt  (or  enough  to 
taste),  1  oz.  dry  mustard.  Put  onions,  peppers,  cabbage 
through  meat  chopper  and  measure  separately.  Add 
all  ingredients  except  mustard  and  boil  45  minutes 
slowly.    Mix  mustard  with  3  extra  tablespoons  of  vine- 

Garments  for  Cvenin?  §  SportWear 


Pickles  15? 

gar.     Add  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.     Fill  hot  jars 
and  seal.     If  vinegar  is  very  sharp,  dilute  with  water. 

Mrs.  Waldo  Jennings. 

French  Mustard 

Three  tablespoons  mustard,  1  tablespoon  granulated 
sugar,  well  worked  together.  Then  beat  in  an  egg  until 
it  is  smooth;  Add  1  tea-cup  of  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time 
working  it  all  smooth.  Cook  three  or  four  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  cool,  add  1  tablespoon  olive 
oil,  taking  care  to  work  it  in  smoothly. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Squier. 


CONFECTIONERY 


White  Fondant 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  If  cups  hot  water, 
\  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Put  ingredients  into  a 
smooth  granite  stewpan.  Stir,  and  then  heat  gradually 
to  boiling  point.  Boil  without  stirring  until,  when 
tried  in  cold  water,  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  that  will 
just  keep  in  shape.  After  a  few  minutes'  boiling  sugar 
will  adhere  to  sides  of  kettle.  This  should  be  washed 
off  with  the  hand  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Have  a 
pan  of  cold  water  near  at  hand,  dip  hand  in  cold  water, 
then  quickly  wash  off  a  small  part  of  the  sugar  with 
tips  of  fingers,  and  repeat  until  all  sugar  adhering  to 
side  of  sauce  pan  is  removed.  If  this  is  done  quickly 
there  is  no  danger  of  burning  the  fingers.  Pour  slowly 
on  a  slightly  oiled  marble  slab  or  platter.  Let  stand  a 
few  minutes  to  cool,  but  not  long  enough  to  become  hard 
around  the  edge.  Scrape  fondant  with  chopping  knife 
to  one  end  of  marble,  and  work  with  a  wooden  spatula 
or  spoon  until  white  and  creamy.  It  will  quickly  change 
from  this  consistency  and  begin  to  lump,  when  it  should 
be  kneaded  with  the  hands  until  perfectly  smooth. 

Put  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  oiled  paper  to  exclude 
air,  that  a  crust  may  not  form  on  top,  and  let  stand 


Tip  Top  Dry  Cleaning  and  Pressing 


Phona 
4084 


CONFECTIONERY  159 

twenty-four  hours.  Always  make  fondant  on  a  clear 
day,  as  damp,  heavy  atmosphere  has  an  unfavorable 
effect  on  the  boiling  of  sugar.     Virginia  Winship. 

Opera  Cream 
Boil  2  cups  sugar  and   1  cup  water,    butter    size  of 
walnut,   J,  tablespoon  vinegar.     Let  boil  until  it  forms 
a  soft  ball.     Add  f  cup  chopped  nuts.     Pour  into  but- 
tered pan.     Cool  5  minutes,  then  beat  until  white. 

Mary  Browning. 
Divinity 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  §  cup  water.  Boil  2  or 
3  minutes,  then  add  ^  cup  corn  syrup.  Put  in  a  pinch 
of  cream  of  tartar  as  soon  as  sugar  and  water  boil. 
After  adding  syrup,  boil  until  it  threads  brittle.  Have 
beaten  stiff  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  pour  upon  it  the 
cooked  syrup,  and  beat  adding  three-quarters  cup 
chopped  nuts  and  candied  fruit. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Sutton,  Minneapolis. 

Nut  Candy 

One  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  and  stir  all 
the  time.  When  done  it  will  follow  the  spoon.  Stir  full 
of  peanuts  or  hickory  nut  meats.    Miss  0.  S.  Hinman. 

Cream   Taffy 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  \  cup  of  vinegar,  \  cup 
of  water,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  without 
stirring  until  it  will  candy  when  dropped  in  cold  water; 
flavor  and  pour  out  on  a  buttered  dish.  Moisten  the 
hands  when  pulling.  When  cold,  cut  with  sharp  scissors. 
Mrs.  Harriet  Howes  Morgan. 


160  CONFECTIONERY 


Fudge 


One  cup  white  sugar,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  \\  squares  chocolate,  1 
tablespoon  cocoa.  Let  boil  until  it  forms  very  soft 
ball  in  water.  Add  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  while 
boiling.  Add  a  little  vanilla  and  nut  meats  if  desired. 
Turn  on  buttered  platter  and  let  cool.  Then  beat  till 
creamy.     If  it  gets  too  hard  or  grainy,  add  a  bit  of  cream. 

Mary   Browning. 
Fudge 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  |  cake  Baker's  chocolate, 
butter  the  size  of  egg,  f  cup  thin  cream.  Boil  until 
it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Take 
from  fire  and  cool  until  you  can  hold  your  hand  on  the 
outside  of  the  pan,  then  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and 
beat  until  it  thickens.  Put  into  buttered  tins  and 
cut  in  squares. 

Butter  Scotch  Candy 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  brown  sugar,  6  teaspoons 
vinegar,  2|  tablespoons  butter.  Cook  slowly  until 
crisp  in  cold  water.     Stir  very  little. 

Mrs.  Morna  Eldred  LaPierre. 

Butter  Scotch 

One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  |  cup  of  butter,  1 
tablespoon  of  vinegar,  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Boil  all  to- 
gether until  done;  pour  in  buttered  pan,  and  cut  in 
squares  when  cold,  and  wrap  in  paraffin  paper. 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Wilder. 


CONFECTIONERY  161 

Pralines 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  |  cup  boiling  water, 
2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  pecan  meats.  Boil  water 
and  sugar  until  it  will  make  soft  ball  in  water.  Add 
butter  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  nuts  without  beat- 
ing much.     Drop  from  spoon  on  oiled  paper. 

Mrs.  Delos  Thompson,  Rensselaer,  Ind. 

Chocolate  Carmels 

Three-fourths  cup  of  chocolate,  1  cup  of  molasses,  2 
cups  of  white  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg.  a 
pinch  of  flour  and  soda,  and  1  cup  of  milk. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Rue. 

Chocolate  Carmels 

Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  half  cake 
of  chocolate,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Boil  until  thick,  pour  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  when  cool 
cut  in  squares.  Mrs.  G.  C.  Steele. 

Hickory  Nut  Macaroons 

To  1  cup  of  hickory-nut  meats  add  |  teaspoon  each  of 
ground  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Make  a  frosting  of  1  egg 
as  for  cake,  and  stir  in  the  meats.  Make  the  mixture 
into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Lay  them  on  buttered 
tins,  and  bake  in  quick  oven.    Mrs.  E.  C.  Groesreck. 

LEVANT  COLE,  Florist,  "•^EL'ST 


162  CONFECTIONERY 

Molasses  Candy 

One  cup  molasses,  \  cup  white  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Heat 
a  frying-pan,  and  put  the  butter  in  first  and  heat.  Add 
the  molasses,  and  the  sugar  moistened  with  the  vinegar. 
Just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  \  teaspoon  of 
soda.     It  is  done  when  it  will  drop  hard  in  cold  water. 

Mrs.   V.   P.   Collier. 

Salted  Almonds 

Blanch  the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  until  the  water  is  cool.  Then 
slip  off  the  skins.  Butter  very  freely  a  frying-pan  or 
dripper,  put  the  almonds  in  it,  and  bake  in  the  oven, 
stirring  frequently,  until  they  are  well  browned.  Take 
from  the  oven  and  salt  while  hot,  that  the  salt  may 
adhere  to  the  buttered  nuts. 

Miss  Julia  E.  Hinman. 

Candied  Grape  Fruit  Peel 

Save  grape  fruit  rinds,  the  thicker  the  better.  Cut 
in  quarters  and  then  in  strips.  Put  on  fire  in  cold 
water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  drain  and  repeat 
three  times.  Make  a  heavy  syrup,  allowing  1  cup 
sugar  to  each  grape  fruit.  Add  peel  and  cook,  stirring 
constantly   till   syrup  is  all  absorbed.     Lay   on  brown 

ABBOTT  OPTICAL  CO.,  17  E.  Main  St. 


CONFECTIONERY  I"3 


paper  and  sprinkle  thoroughly  with  granulated  sugar. 
VeU»e  coloring  may  he  added Jo  syrup ,* add  to 
attractiveness.  lylKB-  L" 

Fig  Paste 
One  pound  each  of  figs,  raisins  and  dates,  2  cups 
walnut  meats.  Put  through  fine  grinder  twice.  Add 
Tuice  of  1  large  orange.  Roll  in  as  much  powdered 
J8Ugar  -  is  necessary  to  make  firm  paste.  Shape  m 
balls  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar^   ^  ^  ^^ 


Table  of  Weights  and  Measures 

4  cups  of  sifted  flour  well  heaped 1  lb. 

2  cups  of  butter 1  lb. 

1  generous  pint  of  liquid 1  lb. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar 1  lb. 

2\  cups  of  powdered  sugar 1  lb. 

10  common-sized  eggs 1  lb. 

1  large  tablespoon   of  flour.... 1  oz. 

The  cup  used  is  the  common  cup  holding  £  pint. 

1  Gill    of    liquids..... \  cup. 


Read  The  Good  Health 
Magazine 

IT  was  the  pioneer  magazine  in  teaching  biologic  living,  and 
it  stands  alone.  When  the  magazine  (under  another  name) 
was  established   in   1866,    the  Editors  adopted  a  policy 
which  has  been  maintained   at   the   same    high    standard 
throughout  the  years. 

When  you  select  a  magazine,  you  want  one  that  is  worth 
while.  The  majority  of  thinking  people  will  at  once  admit  that 
health  is  the  most  important  and  valuable  of  a  man's  assets. 
Without  it,  one  is  crippled  in  every  line  of  endeavor.  GOOD 
HEALTH  tells  you  how  to  keep  well. 

There  is  no  periodical  in  the  world  that  contains  such  a 
wealth  of  general  health  information,  dietetics  and  all  that 
pertains  to  the  art  and  science  of  health  and  longevity,  as  the 
GOOD  HEALTH  magazine.  John  Harvey  Kellogg,  M.  D., 
LL.  D.,  is'the  Editor-in-chief.  Dr.  [Kellogg' s  work  as  the 
builder  and  medical  chief  of  the  renowned  Battle  Creek  San- 
itarium is  well  known.  His  forceful  editorials,  as  well  as 
other  articles  in  GOOD  HEALTH,  are  widely  copied  and 
commented  upon  in  journals  throughout  the  country. 

One  year's  subscription  to  GOOD  HEALTH  costs  only 
$2. SO.  Mail  your  subscription  remittance  today.  Send 
a  postal  card  request  for  a  sample  copy  of  GOOD  HEALTH. 

ADDRESS 

Good  Health  Publishing  Company 

Battle  Creek,  Michigan. 


Phone  224 


HI 


El 


mm 


w 


EVANS  6  SON 


iUL> 


m 


BATTLE    CREEK,  MICHIGAN. 

16  Liberty  St. 


Ilo  burst  o!  elo= 
quence,  no  glor- 
ified words  can 
quite  paint  for 

a  the  beauty  of 
the  hats  shown  by 

Vogue 
Hat  Shop 

Mrs.B.V.  WELSH 
9-11  Arcade 


"Cleaning  and  dyeing  things 
Saves  lots  of  buying  things" 

M 

WILL  H.  SPINK 

61   EAST  MAIN   ST.  phone  741 


GO  TO  FISHER'S  FIRST" 


For  Books,  Stationery,  Office  Supplies 
Party  Favors,  Novelties,  etc. 


E.  C.  FISHER  8c  CO. 

12-14  West  Main  Street  phone  128 


Your  Sunba\>  Dinner 

Try  a  Sunday  Dinner  with  Savita  Bouillon  and  Roast  of 
Protose. 

Savita  is  a  wonderful  vegetable  extract  with  a  pro- 
nounced meaty  taste.  A  genuine  vitamin  food. 

Protose  is  a  substitute  for  meat  that  has  stood  the  test 
of  time  and  use  and  has  become  a  staple  in  hundreds  of 
homes.     Wholesome,  nourishing,  appetizing. 


The  Battle  Creek  Food  Company. 


Always  Best  at  Binder's 


MEAT,  FISH,  GAME 

IN  SEASON 


THE  BINDER  MARKET 

Where  Quality  is  Supreme 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

H.  A.  BROMBERG 

Jeweler  and  Optician 

Bromberg  Building,"  Monument  Square 
BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 


Wearing  Apparel,  Millinery 

AND 

Furnishings  for  Women 

Bell  Phone  159        BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 


THE  BEST  RECEIPTS 

Fail  With  Poor  Heat.     Try  Our  Coal  and  Have 

SUCCESS 

RATHBUN  &  KRAFT  CO. 

BELL  PHONE       ■      2737  57    SOUTH    MCCAMLY    ST. 

CITIZENS  PHONE    1037 

"Our  Coal  Makes  Warm  Friends*' 


J.  Porter  Mayo 

Jeweler  &  Optician 

A  COMPLETE  OPTICAL  SERVICE  POST  TAVERN  BLDG. 

Compliments 


The  Cheerful  Service  Store 


Compliments 

Turner  Furniture  Co. 


Eight  out  of  every  ten  homes  in 
Battle    Creek     are     using    an 

A-B  Gas  Range 

Exclusive  A-B  features  make  this 
range  the  best  value  on  the  mar- 
ket today. 

FOR  BETTER  COOKING  AND  BETTER 
BAKING,  BUY  AN  A-B  GAS  RANGE. 

Sold  in  Battle  Creek  by 

THE  BATTLE  CREEK  GAS  CO. 


Work  Called  for  and  Delivered 


IVAN  HOLMBERG 

TAILOR 


CLEANING-PRESSING-REPAIRING 

BELL  PHONE  2236  4»5J4  MAPLE  ST. 


ELECTROLYSIS  AND 
MARCEL  WAVING 


SOFT  WATER 
SHAMPOO 


BLANCHARD  AND  WOLGAMOOD 


BELL  PHONE 
8  0  3  -  J 


605  POST  BLDG. 
BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 


STEVENS  &  GORDON  CO. 

CLOTHING  AND  FURNISHINGS 
FOR  MEN  AND  BOYS 


10  W.  Main  Street 


Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


POTTER  &  SAVAGE 

Dealers  in  Fresh,  Salt  &  Smoked  Meats. 

When  in  need  of  best  quality  meat 
at  moderate  price,  give  us  a  trial. 

Your  Satisfaction  Means  Our  Success. 
241  W.  Main  St.         Bell  Phone  4548  W 


ABBEY'S  RICHELIEU  GROCERY 
THE  QUALITY  STORE 

130  North  Division 

Bell  Phone  3456  &  3457  Automatic  Phone  2685 

When  you  are  hurried  and  in  need  of  im- 
mediate service  phone  us  for  any  of 
the  leading  brands  of  groceries;  delicacies, 
jams  and  other  condiments.  One  of  the  im- 
portant parts  of  our  service  is  that  we  not 
only  supply  you  food  products  that  are  fresh 
and  pure  at  maximum  value  and  at  a  moder- 
ate price  but  that  we  protect  you  through  our 
guarantee  of  satisfaction  in  everything  you 
buy  here.  We  recommend  Richelieu  products. 


THE?  JXJ«T  RIGHT 

BREAD 

(Sold  t>^r  all   O^OOOrS 

Made  by  Gartner  Baking  Co, 


MAYO  &  GAULT 

Jewelers 

1 8  Jefferson  Ave.  So.  Bell  Phone  606 

Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


A.  H.  THOMAS 

MEATS 

When  in  need  of  anything  in  our 
line,  remember  that  we  handle 
only  highest  quality  at  reasonable 


prices. 
106  CALHOUN  ST. 


PHONE  1712 


Since  1899 

Strain's  Bread  has  been  the  Standard  of  Bread  for 
Battle  Creek. 

Our  constant  care  is  to  so  maintain  the  quality  0/ 

Gold  Medal  Bread 

as  to  always  merit  the  confidence  and  patronage  of  the 
exacting  housewife. 

FRESH  DAIL Y  AT  ALL  GROCERS. 

Strain  'Baking  Company 


H.  A.  PRESTON  CO. 

A    STANDARD    OF    QUALITY    HAS    BEEN     SET    FOR 
MERCHANDISE    BY     THIS      FIRM      FOR     40     YEARS 


as-t 


Street 


GEORGE   BODINE 


FLOYD   BODINE 


BODINE  BROTHERS 

THE  FRENCH  DRY  CLEANERS 
AND  DYERS 

PRESSING  AND   REPAIRING 


BELL   PHONE  365 

36  N.  JEFFERSON   AVE. 


BATTLE  CREEK,  MICH. 


SERVICE        —        QUALITY 

45=47 

Jefferson   Ave.,  South 

Both  Phones  1504 


GENERAL  LAUNDRY  WORK 

SPECIAL  SERVICE  FAMILY 

WASHING 

SPECIAL  EQUIPPED 
LACE  CURTAIN    DEPARTMENT 


OF  BATTLE  CREEK,  MICHIGAN    soft-waterlaundry 


AUSTIN  &  COMPANY 

Opposite  Bijou 

China,  Glass  and  a  thousand  Novelties. 


Compliments  of 

\tewart  I  aundry 

57  --  59  E.  Main  St. 

OLDEST  and  BEST 


TAYLOR  &  TAYLOR 

Grocers 


15  Jefferson  Ave.  North 


May  we  suggest 

SQUIBB'S  SPICES 

for  your  Cabinet 

Money  cannot  buy  better  nor 
Science  produce  purer.  Goes 
farther  and  gives  better  flavor. 

OWL  DRUG  COMPANY 

53  W.  Main  Street  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 

Look  for  the  Yellow  Owl  Front 


rv ' 


COMPLIMENTS  OF  r 


BATTLE  CREEK  BREAD  WRAPPING 
MACHINE  COMPANY 


A  GOOD  COOK 

Knows  that  a  good  recipe  makes 
APPETIZING  FOOD 

AND  A  GOOD  MILLINER 

KNOWS  that  good  material  and  good  workman- 
ship makes  durable  and  stylish  hats. 

The  best  of  everything  in  the  millinery  line  can 
be  had  here  at  all  times,  at  a  moderate  price. 

EXPERT  BUTTON   MAKING,  HEMSTITCHING  &  PLEATING 

COLEMANS  MILLINERY 

(upstairs) 

io  East  Main  St.  Over  Bazleys 


GOOD  COOKING  NEED*S  GOOD  SPICES 

\JSE  SQ\J\US 

AND  TASTE  THE  DIFFERENCE 

A  FULL  LINE 

Also — Squibb's  Soda — Olive  oil — Vanilla  & 

Household  Specialties  at 

AMBERG,  MURPHY  DRUG  COMPANY  Ltd. 

50  YEARS  AT 
5  EAST  MAIN  STREET 

ASK  THE  WOMAN  WHO  USES  THEM 


sells  Stationery  that  you 
will  be  Proud  to  use 

Cameras,  Photo  Supplies 

and  Superior  Service 
Plate  and  Society  Engraving 
McCamly  Street  on  the  Bridge 

BATTLE  CREEK 


WHAT  WOULD  A  GOOD  RECEIPT  BE 
WITHOUT  GOOD  MATERIALS 

The  most  skillful  chef  in  the  world,  working  with 
a  tried  and  tested  recipe  would  achieve  poor 
success  unless  his  ingredients  were  exactly  what 
he  knew  them  to  be. 

But  with  the  ingredients  of  known  quality  and 
merit  his  simplest  dishes  would  be  fit  to  set  be- 
fore a  king. 

For  years,  this  store  has  been  dealing  in  groceries 
and  supplies  of  known  quality  and  established 
merit — on  that  basis  the  reputation  of  this  store 
has  been  built. 
Just  as  the  excellence  of  the  recipes  in  this  book 
has  been  established  by  test,  so  has  the  reputa- 
tion of  this  store. 
Tho  "T.   F".  NA/halen  Qrocory  Oo. 
Established,  1900 


TOELLER'S 

DEPARTMENT     STORE 

Battle    Creek,    Mich. 

READY-TO-WEAR 
DRESS  GOODS 
LINENS 

DOMESTICS 

MILLINERY 
SHOES 

HOSIERY 

HOUSE  FURNISHINGS 

"Exclusive  Agents  For  Athena  Underwear" 


How  About  It? 


GOVERNMENT  STATISTICS  SHOW  THAT  7 
PERSONS  OUT  OF  EVERY  10,  SUFFER 
FROM    SOME    FORM    OF    FOOT    TROUBLE 

—Are  you  one  of  the  Seven?— 

DR.  G.  H.ALWARD 
CHIROPODIST— FOOT  SPECIALIST 

207  POST  BLDG.  PHONE  BELL  217 


Do  Not  Neglect 


YOUR     PERSONAL     APPEARANCE     AND 
LOOSE    FAVOR     AMONG    YOUR    FRIENDS 

MARCELING  MANICURING 

ELECTRICAL.    FACIAL    AND    SCALP    TREATMENTS 

-EXPERIENCED  OPERATORS- 
MARINELLO  PREPARATIONS-HAIR  GOODS 
ALWARD  HAIR  SHOP 

208  POST  BLDG.  PHONE  BELL  217 


THE  MOON  THE  JOURNAL 

Founded  in  1879  Founded    in     1872 

The  Home  Newspaper  of  Battle  Creek. 

THE  MOON-JOURNAL 

Owned,  Managed,  Edited,  and    Manned  in 
All    Departments  by  Battle  Creek    People. 

The  Best  Buy  for  News.  The  Best  Advertising  Buy. 

Goes  Into  60  Per  Cent,  of  the  City's  Homes . 


Prepare  for  the 

Camping  and  Outdoor  Season 

"United"  Products 
The  Best  Equipment 


"NUGGET"  OUTFIT  ALL-STEEL  CAMP  STOOL 

The  "NUGGET"  is  a  practical,  folding  Camp  Stove  and  Oven.  Cooks. 
Bakes,  Broils.  Outfit  consists  of  Stove,  Oven,  Meat  Broiler,  Extension 
Handle,  Folding  Handle  Fry  Pan,  and  Kit  Bag. 

Folding  Camp  Stool.  Every  part  of  steel.  Seat  pliable.  All  joints  electric- 
ally welded.  Tested  to  over  350  pounds.   Height  16  inches. 

UNITED  STEEL  &  WIRE  CO.     Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


Apparel  For 

Ladies,  Misses  and  Children 

Let  Us  Furnish  Your  Floor 
Coverings.  We  Carry  a 
Complete  Line  of  Carpets, 
Rugs       and       Linoleums. 


Dry  Goods,    Millinery     and    Notions 
WEICKGENANT'S  DEPT.  STORE 


Hours  8:30  Bell  Phone 

To  6  P.M.  —  365  1  — 

®lp>  (Comfort  ^hop 

522-23    $00i  Jgutlhmg 

Harper  Method   Hair    Office 
Mrs.  Oren  O.  Cummings 


Careful  Shampooing  Scalp  Treatments 

Marceling  Hairdressing 

Facial  Treatments  Manicuring 


N.  E.  HUBBARD 

GENERAL  INSURANCE 

412  POST  BUILDING  BELL  PHONE    175 

OUR  RECIPE: 

SUDDEN  SERVICE 

C.  R.  Brewer  Lumber  Co. 

Ill  Marshall  Street 


ALL  LADIES 

Are  proud  of  their  Kitchen. 

Let  us  cover  your  table  with 

ZINC. 


JONES  SHEET  METAL  CO. 

PHONE  599 

66  S.  JEFFERSON  AVE. 
Eave  T roughing  Roofing 

Stop  and  Shop 

at  the 

"Butcber  ©bop" 

men's  Wear  of  Quality 

BUTCHER,  ROBERTS  &  MILLARD 

BELL  PHONE  1417- W 


MRS.  NELLIE  FISH 

HAIR  GOODS  MANUFACTURED  WHOLESALE,  RETAIL. 
HAIR  DRESSING  MANICURING  AND  MASSAGING. 


608  City  National  Bank  Bldg.        Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


The  Jury-  Rowe  Company 

OF  BATTLE  CREEK 

FURNITURE,  RUGS,  STOVES  AND 
COMPLETE  HOUSE  FURNISHINGS 

79-81-83  West  Main  St.  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


G.  E.  FITZGERALD 

HARDWARE 

SHEET  METAL  WORK 

97  WEST  MAIN  ST, 


"Better  Shoes  For  Less  Money" 


MERRITT  &  CALDWELL  SHOE  PARLORS 

G.  S.  CALDWELL,   PROPRIETOR 


51}  W.  MAIN  ST. 

OVER  OWL  DRUG  BATTLE  CREEK, 

ARCADE  BLDG.  MICHIGAN 


MILK  PRODUCERS  CO, 

47  KALAMAZOO  STREET 

F.  W.  SULLIVAN 


WHOLESALE  8c  RETAIL 

SCIENTIFICALLY    PASTUER1ZED 

Milk,   Cream,   Buttermilk,    Cottage  Cheese 

and  Velvet  Ice  Cream 


THE  MOST  PRECIOUS  OF  PERFUMES 


^ttar  of  roses  is  distilled  from  the  crushed  petals 
of  the  rose.  Taken  in  the  fullness  of  its  bloom  and 
beauty,  the  rose  withers  and  is  gone  —  but  lives 
for  ages  as  an  essence,    inexpressibly  sweet. 

§o  it  is  with  a  real  noble  soul;  adversity  but  dis- 
tills the  perfection  of  the  character.  -  And,  ill  for- 
tune brings  out  a  sweet  nobility. 

(Compliments  of  The  Farley  Company.) 

FARLEY  FUNERAL  HOME 

105  W.  Van  Buren  St. 


A  Tribute  to  Your  Success 


FROM 


L.  W.  ROBINSON 

POST  BLDG.  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


The  Enquirer  and  News 
Battle  Creek's  Newspaper 

Institution 


"""Phe  Classified  Department  of  the 
A    Enquirer  and  News  is  the  Market 
Place  of  Calhoun  County. 


The  Good  Health  Cafe 

Washington  at  Champion 

Here  you  will  find  the  finest  food 
that  the  markets  afford  —  cooked 
and  served  so  appetizing  that  you 
will  be  delighted. 


"No  meat —  but  the  best  there  is  to  eat 


THE  GOOD  HEALTH  GROCERY 

47  N.  Washington  Ave. 

FINE  GROCERIES  AND  FRUITS 


SANITARIUM  HEALTH  SAVOY 

FOODS  QUALITY  PRODUCTS 

OUR  OWN  DELIVERY 


The  Sign  of  Good  Printing 


Ellis  Publishing  Co. 

PRINTERS  -  BINDERS 
ELECTROTYPERS 
ENGRAVERS 

BATTLE  CREEK,  MICHIGAN 


The  Makers  of  this  Book 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  488  331  7 


