1  l~lli 


Cook  B6ok_. 


(^\A 


yfr-NRLF 


OAKFiND  BREWING  MAimG  6.. 

OAKLAND  .CAI.  - 


IJBRARY 
UNiVERsiv :  ^yr  California 

DAVIS 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arcinive 

in  2006  witii  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


littp://www.arcliive.org/details/blueandgoldcookbOOoaklrich 


WE  are  gratified  to  be  able  to  present  to  our  friends 
and  patrons  the  ''Blue  and  Gold  Cook  Book"  be- 
cause we  believe  that  it  will  meet  with  the  appre- 
ciation we  hope  for  and  can  assure  you  that  an  extraordin- 
ary amount  of  time  and  care  has  been  expended  in  collect- 
ing and  editing  this  volume  of  recipes.  We  have  found  in 
our  experience  that  almost  every  cook  book  which  has 
heretofore  been  published  has  given  too  much  space  to 
ordinary  recipes,  within  the  ken  of  every  experienced  house- 
wife. 

Our  assumption  is  that  the  lady  who  uses  a  cook  book 
knows  the  ordinary  rudiments  of  the  Art  of  Cookery — that 
in  turning  to  the  pages  of  a  cook  book  she  does  so  in  the 
anticipation  of  finding  therein  something  new — something 
that  will  appeal  through  its  very  novelty. 

With  that  end  in  view  we  have  delved  deeply  into  the  ques- 
tion and  hope  that  our  labors  have  not  been  in  vain — and 
that  the  recipients  of  this  book  can  truly  say  they  have  found 
therein  something  new — something  worth  while. 

The  mistress  of  the  home  who  is  suddenly  confronted  with 
a  houseful  of  company  for  either  luncheon,  dinner  or  supper, 
may  turn  to  the  menus  which  are  provided  and  feel  assured 
that  any  one  of  them  is  perfect  in  its  way  and  will  earn  for 
the  hostess  the  appreciation  of  her  guests. 

You  will  find  simple  recipes — and  elaborate  ones — chafing 
dish  specialties — canapes  and  salads — all  essential  factors 
that  make  for  the  successful  meal — and  the  height  of  accom- 
plishment is  atained  when  you  augment  these  preparations 
with  the  zest  contained  in  every  bottle  of  Blue  and  Gold 
Lager. 

Very  truly  yours, 

OAKLAND  BREWING  AND  MALTING  CO. 


WOMEN 
INTERESTED 

in  the  success  of  the  dinner  will  not  fail 
to  provide  the  most  appetizing  and 
palatable  beverage.  This  is  conceded 
by  particular  people. 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 

Prejudice  for  Eastern  products  has  been 
almost  universally  abolished  wherever 
consistent  test  of  the  famous  local  beer 
has  been  made. 

HOME  PRODUCTS 
ARE    UNEQUALED 

This  beer  is  a  pleasing  wholesome  bev- 
erage, devoid  of  any  injurious  effect  and 
a  credit  to  the  best  menus. 

$1.25    PER    CASE 

12  large  or  24  small  bottles  —  delivered. 


Copyright  1912.  by  Felix  Mendelsohr 


Lunch 


eons 


Celery  Olives 

Canape   Careme 

Cream   of   Asparagus   Soup 

Fried  Frogs  Legs 

Souffle    Potatoes 

Tomatoes  en  Surprise 

Peach  Souffle  Roxane        Coffee 

*     *     * 

Celery         Almonds  Olives 

Pate   a  la   Bernhardt 
Clam    Bouillon    with    Whipped 

Cream 

Paprika  Veal  Schnitzel,  French 

Peas 

New  Potatoes  in  Cream 

Cabbage   Salad   a  la   Calais 

Sponge  Torte  en  Surprise 

Coffee 


Celery  Olives 

Pimento    Canape 
Escalloped  Oysters- 
Eggs  a  la  Mornay 
Chestnut  Salad 
French  Pancakes  Coffee 

♦    *    * 

Celery  Olives  Radishes 

Canape  Demidoff 

Clam  Broth 

Shade    Roe,    Cucumber    salad 

Braised  Calves'  Liver 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Filled  Tomatoes 

Danish  Rice  Pudding 

Coffee 


Ripe  Olives  Celery 

Crabmeat    Cocktail 

Consomme 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets 

Beefsteak   Sandwiches   with 

Marrow 

O'Brien  Potatoes 

Cantaloupe    a    la    Lillian    Russell 

Coffee 


Celery  Radishes  Olives 

Lobster  Cocktail 
Chicken    Bouillon    with    Dump- 
lings 
French  Lamp  Chops,  Green  Peas 
Potato  Puffs 
Prune  and  Nut  Salad 
Macaroon  Souffle  Coffee 


Celery  Olives  Radishes 

Canape  a  L'Indienne 

Chicken  Gumbo  Creole 

Fresh  Mackerel  Saute  in  Butter 

Chicken  a  la  King 

Hickory  Nut  Salad 

Steamed  Caramel  Pudding 

Coffee  , 

i^     *     * 

Celery  Olives 

Canape  Belmont 

Oysters  au  Gratin 

Ham   a   la   Touraine 

Orange   and    Nut    Salad,    Astor 

Style 

Omelette   Celestine 

Cheese  Balls  Coffee 

4t     ♦     * 

Celery  Olives  Radishes 

Anchovy    Butter    on    Toast 

Cream  of  Tomato  in  Cup 

Salmon  Trout  a  La  Celine 

Broiled  Spring  Chicken 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Corn  a  la  King 

S.  S.  Country  Club  Salad 

Chocolate  Parfait 

Cream  Cheese  with  Bar  le  Due 

Coffee 

*    *    * 

Ripe  Olives,  Salted  Nuts,  Celery 

Canape  a  la  Russe 

Clear  Green  Turtle  Soup  in  Cup 

Lobster    and    Shrimp,    Saute 

Royale 

Waldorf  Salad 

Macaroon  Pudding  Coffee 


D 


inners 


Olives  Celery  Radishes 

Blue   Points   on   Half  Shell 

Onion  Soup  a  la  Savarin 

Fillet  de  Sole  Cucumbers 

Crown  of  Lamb 

Fresh  Vegetables      Potato  Balls 

Breast    of    Chicken    a    la    Sam 

Ward 

Asparagus  Vinaigrette 

Peach  Melba  Ice  Cream 

Roquefort  au  Port 

Coffee 


Olives  Celery  Radishes 

Lobster  and  Crabmeat  Cocktail 

Chicken  Bouillon 

Planked   Whitefish,   French 

String  Beans 

Steak  a  la  Mansfield 

Roasted  Potatoes 

Breast    of    Prairie    Chicken 

Asparagus  Salad    Baked  Alaska 

Roquefort   Cheese 

Coffee 


Olives  Celery  Radishes 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Chicken  Gumbo  Creole 

Fillet  of  Salmon,  Parisian  Style 

Crown    of    Roasted    Lamb, 

French  Peas 

Duchesse   Potatoes 

Roast   Duck,   Currant  Jelly 

Artichoke  Vinaigrette 

Pear   Nordica 

Camembert  Cheese  Coffee 


Salted  Almonds,  Olives,  Celery 
Anchovy  Butter  on  Toast 

Chicken    Bouillon 

Salmon   Trout   a   la   Celine 

Fillet   of   Beef,   Broiled 

Mushrooms 

Potato   Souffle 

Squab    en    Casserole 

Cherry  Salad        Chestnut  Flake 

Gorgonzola  Cheese 

Coffee 


Olives  Celery  Radishes 

Canape  a  la  Russe 

Clear  Green  Turtle  Soup 

Lpbster  and  Shrimp,  Saute 

Royale 

Ham  in  Burgundy 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Breast  of  Partridge 

Cumberland   Sauce 

Grape  Fruit  Salad,    Cafe  Parfait 

Port  de  Salut 

Coffee 


Olives  Celery  Radishes 

Bisque  of  Lobster 

Baked  Sole        Cucumber  Salad 

Larded   Sweetbreads,   Saute 

Baked  Cauliflower 

Philadelphia    Squab,    Crabapple 

Jelly 

French  Endive  Salad 

Maple  Mousse  Coffee 


Su 


ppers 


Beef    Steak    Sandwiches     with 

Marrow 

Celery  Rolls  Olives 

Sweetbread  Salad 

Camembert    Cheese 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 

*  i     * 

Ham,   Southern   Style 

Wine       Olives       Rolls       Nuts 

Shad  Roe  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Cheese  Balls 

•     Blue  and  Gqld  Lager 

*  *     * 

Sliced  Smoked  Goosebreast 

(Rye  Bread) 

Imported  Sardines  and  Crackers 

Curried  Eggs 

Neufchatel   Cheese 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 

*  *     * 

Oysters    au    Gratin 

Celery  Parker  House  Rolls 

Chicken    Sandwiches 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager    . 

*  *     * 

Danish    Sandwiches 

Welsh  Rarebit 

Olives  Dill  Pickles 

French  Rolls 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 

*  *    * 

Lobster  a  la  Thackeray 

Celery  Radishes 

Lettuce  Salad 

Swiss    Cheese 


Celery  Radishes 

Crab  Meat  a  la  Richmond 

Beef      Steak      Sandwiches      with 

Marrow 

Roquefort   Cheese 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 


Celery  Olives 

Sweetbread    Cocktail 

Herring  Salad 

Cream  Cheese  with  Bar  le  Due 
Blue  and  Gold  Lager 


Cold  Lobster  Mayonnaise  Sauce 

Raw  Beefsteak,  a  la  Tartar 

Stuffed    Eggs    with    Caviar 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 


Chicken  Salad  Wafers 

Cottage  Cheese 
Dill  Pickles         Salted  Almonds 
Blue  and  Gold  Lager 


Stuffed  Peppers  Rye  Bread 

Camembert  Cheese 

Wafers  Assorted  Pickles 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager 


Celery  Ripe  Olives 

Spaghetti,  Eggs  and  Cheese 

Club  Sandwiches 


Cooking 


Cooking  is  the  art  of  preparing  food  by  the  aid  of  heat. 
for  the  nourishment  of  the  human  body.  The  principal  ways 
of  cooking  are  boiling,  broiling,  stewing,  roasting,  baking, 
frying,  sauteing,  braising,  fricasseing  and  steaming. 

Boiling:    Cooking  in  boiling  water.  BoiHng  point,  212  F. 

Broiling:    Cooking  over  a  glowing  fire. 

Steaming:    Cooking  over  boiling  water. 

Stewing:  Cooking  for  a  long  time  in  water  below  the 
boiling  point.     Simmering  point,  185  F. 

Roasting:    Cooking  before  a  glowing  fire. 

Baking:     Cooking  in  an  oven. 

Frying:  Cooking  in  hot  deep  fat,  deep  enough  to  cover 
article  to  be  cooked. 

Sauteing:     Cooking  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat. 

Braising:    A  combination  of  stewing  and  baking. 

Fricasseing:    A  combination  of  frying  and  stewing. 

HOUSEHOLD  RULES—HOW  TO  MEASURE. 

All  measurements  should  be  made  LEVEL. 

Accurate  measurement  is  essential  to  insure  good  cooking. 

A  half -pint  cup  is  the  standard.  They  can  be  had  with 
fourths  and  thirds  indicated. 

A  cupful  is  a  cup  filled  LEVEL  with  the  top.  To  measure 
a  cupful,  fill  lightly  with  a  spoon,  taking  care  not  to  shake 
the  cup;  then  level  with  the  knife. 

A  spoonful  is  a  spoon  filled  LEVEL  with  the  top.  First 
sift  the  material  into  the  bowl,  dip  in  the  spoon,  lift  it  slightly 
heaping,  and  level  it  by  sliding  the  side  of  a  knife  across  the 
top  of  the  spoon.     Do  not  level  by  pressing  it. 

Half  a  spoonful  is  obtained  by  dividing  through  the  mid- 
dle lengthwise. 

A  speck  of  anything  is  what  will  lie  within  a  space  >4 
inch  square. 


COOKING. 


WHAT  COOKS  SHOULD  KNOW. 

Allow  four  eggs  to  each  quart  of  milk  in  making  cup 
custards. 

Allow  from  four  to  six  eggs  to  each  quart  of  milk  in  mak- 
ing a  custard  to  be  turned  from  the  mold. 

Rice  will  absorb  three  times  its  measure  of  water  and  a 
large  quantity  of  milk  or  stock. 

One  ounce  of  butter  equals  two  level  tablespoons. 

One  ounce  of  flour  equals  four  tablespoons. 

One  ounce  of  butter  and  one-half  ounce  of  flour  are  used 
to  thicken  one  cup  of  liquid  in  making  a  sauce. 

Allow  two  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  each  cup 
of  flour  when  no  eggs  are  used. 

One  cup  of  sugar  will  sweeten  one  quart  of  any  mixture  to 
be  served  chilled  or  frozen. 

One  teaspoon ful  of  extract  will  flavor  one  quart  of  custard 
or  pudding  to  be  served  unfrozen. 

One  teaspoonful  of  extract  will  flavor  one  quart  of  mix- 
ture to  be  frozen. 

One  level  teaspoon  of  salt  will  season  one  quart  of  soup, 
sauce  or  vegetables. 

The  ordinary  French  dressing  (three  tablespoons  oil,  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  vinegar,  one- fourth  level  teaspoon 
salt,  one-eighth  level  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon of  sugar)  will  marinate  one  pint  of  salad. 

One  teaspoon  of  water  or  milk  should  be  allowed  for  each 
egg  in  making  an  omelet. 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  AT  A  GLANCE. 

The  Fountain  of  Good  Cookery  is  Accuracy. 

By  level  measurements  are  meant  a  spoon  or  cup  filled 
full  with  dry  material,  then  leveled  off  smooth,  to  the  spoon's 
edge.     Flour  is  sifted  before  being  lifted  into  the  cup   or 


8  COOKING. 


spoon,   then   leveled,    and   butter   is    packed    in    solid.     Use 
always  a  measuring  cup  divided  into  thirds  and  quarters. 

2  cups  lard  make  one  pound. 

2  cups  butter  make  one  pound. 

4  cups  pastry  or  bread  flour  make  one  pound. 

3%  cups  entire  wheat  flour  make  one  pound. 

Ay2  cups  graham  flour  make  one  pound. 

^y2  cups  rye  flour  make  one  pound. 

4^  cups  corn  meal  make  one  pound. 

4^  cups  rolled  oats  make  one  pound. 

2%  cups  oatmeal  make  one  pound. 

45^  cups  of  coffee  make  one  pound. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  make  one  pound. 

2%  cups  powdered  sugar  make  one  pound. 

3^  cups  confectioner's  sugar  make  one  pound. 

2^  cups  brown  sugar  make  one  pound. 

2  cups  chopped  meat  make  one  pound. 

V/%  cups  rice  make  one  pound. 

2  cups  raisins  (packed)  make  one  pound. 

2%  cups  currants  make  one  pound. 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  make  one  pound. 

9  large  eggs  make  one  pound. 

2  tablespoons  butter  make  one  ounce. 
4  tablespoons  flour  make  one  ounce. 

6  tablespoons  baking  powder  make  half  ounce. 

3  teaspoons  make  one  tablespoon. 

16  tablespoons  dry  ingredient  make  one  cup. 

TABLE  OF  MEASUREMENTS— LEVEL. 

Four  saltspoons  equal  one  teaspoon. 
Three  teaspoons  equal  one  tablespoon. 
Six  tablespoons  equal  one-quarter  cup. 
Two  gills  equal  one  cup. 
Two  cups  equal  one  pint. 


COOKING. 


Four  cups  flour  equal  one  pound. 
Two  cups  butter,  solid,  equal  one  pound. 
Two  cups  sugar,  granulated,  equal  one  pound. 
Three  cups  meal  equal  one  pound. 
Six  tablespoons  butter  equal  two  ounces. 
Six  tablespoons  sugar  equal  one  ounce. 
Two  cups  solid  meat  equal  one  pound. 
One  tablespoon,  liquid,  one-half  ounce. 
The  addition  of  a  beaten  egg  to  the  mashed  potatoes  used 
for  potato  cakes  will  be  found  well  worth  while. 

COOKING  TIME  TABLE— BAKING  MEATS. 

Beef  Sirloin — Rare,  8  minutes  for  each  pound;  well-done, 
10  to  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Beef  Ribs  or  Rump — 10  to  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Beef  Fillet— 20  to  25  minutes. 

Lamb — Well-done,  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Mutton — Rare,  10  to  12  minutes  for  each  pound;  well- 
done,  15  to  18  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Pork — Well-done,  25  to  30  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Veal — ^Well-done,  18  to  20  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Braised  Meat — 3j4  to  4  hours. 

Chickens — Weighing  from  3  to  5  pounds,  1  to  1^  hours. 

Turkeys — ^Weighing  from  9  to  12  pounds,  3  to  3}^  hours. 

Fish — Of  average  thickness,  weighing  from  6  to  8  pounds, 
1  hour. 

BROILING. 

Beefsteak — Cut  Ij^  inches  thick,  5  to  8  minutes. 

Beefsteak — 1  inch  thick,  3  to  5  minutes. 

Mutton  Chops — 8  to   10  minutes. 

Chickens — 18  to  25  minutes. 

Fish — Thin,  4  to  8  minutes. 

Fish— Thick,  10  to  15  minutes. 

Ham — 7  to  10  minutes. 


10  COOKING. 


VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus — 15  to  18  minutes. 
String  Beans — V/2  to  2  hours. 
Shell  Beans — 1  to  2  hours. 
Cauliflower — 30  to  40  minutes. 
Cabbage,  New — 30  to  45  minutes. 
Carrots — 50  to  60  minutes. 
Onions — 35  to  45  minutes. 
Oyster  Plant — 40  to  60  minutes. 
Peas — 15  to  20  minutes. 
Potatoes — Steamed,  30  to  45  minutes. 
Turnips — ZS  to  50  minutes. 
Parsnips — 35  to  45  minutes. 


CAKE  AND  PASTRY. 

Sponge  Cake — 45  to  55  minutes. 
Plain  Cake — 20  to  45  minutes. 
Cookies — 10  to   12  minutes. 
Gingerbread — 20  to  30  minutes. 
Plum  Pudding— 2>^  to  3  hours. 
Tapioca  or  Rice  Pudding — 1  hour. 
Bread  Pudding — 65  minutes. 
Pies  with  Two  Crusts— 30  to  40  minutes. 
Graham  Rolls — >^   hour. 
Wheat  Rolls— 10  to  18  minutes. 
Bread — 40  to  60  minutes. 
Biscuit — 10  to  18  minutes. 


COOKING. 


BOILING  MEATS. 

Veal — 2  or  3  hours. 
Beef — 2  or  3  hours. 
Mutton— 2  to  3  hours. 
Ham — 5  to  5J^  hours. 
Sweetbreads — 20  to  25  minutes. 
Chicken — 1  to  1^  hours. 
Fowls — 2  to  3  hours. 
Tongue — 2  to  3  hours. 

BOILING  FISH. 

Bass — 10  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Bluefish — 10  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Fresh  Cod  or  Haddock — 6  minutes  for  each  pound. 

HaHbut — In  square,  15  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Salmon — In   square,    15  minutes   for  each   pound. 

Small  Fish — 6  to  8  minutes  for  each  pound. 

Oysters — 3  to  4  minutes,  or  until  the  edges  curl. 

THE  SERVING  OF  WINES  AND  CORDIALS. 

With  Oysters — Sauterne. 

With  Soup — Sherry. 

With  Fish— Rhine  Wine. 

With  Entrees — Claret. 

With  Game — Burgundy. 

With  Roasts,  Cold  Dishes,  Hot  and  Cold  Sweet  Dishes 
-Champagne. 

With  Dessert  or  Cheese — Old  Port  Wine. 

With  Coffee — Liqueurs. 
Blue  and  Gold  Lager  is  good  with  every    meal. 


Canapes,  Entrees  and  Appetizers 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 
No.  1. 

1  pint  small  oysters,  3  tablespoons  Rhine  wine, 

12  tablespoons  catsup,  Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to 

3  tablespoons  tarragon  taste, 

vinegar,  Juice  of  1  lemon. 

Serve  veiy  i;old  with  one-fourth  teaspoonful  grated 
horseradish  on  top  of  each  portion. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 
No.  2. 

18  oysters,  J^  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 

3  tablespoons  tomato  cat-         ^  teaspoon  sherry  wine, 

sup.  Salt  to  taste. 

6  drops  Tabasco  sauce. 

Wipe  the  oysters  dry.  Mix  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 
This  quantity  serves  three  people. 

LOBSTER  COCKTAIL. 

Two  lobsters  boiled,  cut  into  pieces  one-half  inch  square. 
Follow  recipe  for  oyster  cocktail  No.  1,  substituting  the  lob- 
ster in  place  of  the  oysters.  * 

Serve  very  cold  in  cocktail  glasses.  This  serves  6  people. 
Crab  meat  can  also  be  served  this  way. 

ANCHOVY  BUTTER  ON  TOAST. 

4  boned  anchovies,  i/4  cup  butter, 
2  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs.        Paprika. 

Pound  the  above  ingredients  together  in  a  mortar  until 
smooth,  then  pass  through  puree  sieve.  If  the  anchovies  were 
preserved  in  salt  rather  than  oil,  let  stand  some  hours  in  milk 
or  water  to  freshen. 

Small,  thin  round  pieces  of  toast,  buttered;  then  spread 
very  lightly  with  anchovy  butter,  and  on  this  place  a  care- 
fully fried  or  steamed  tgg.    Garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 


CANAPES  AND  ENTREES. 


BREADED  SARDINES. 

Drain  the  oil  from  large  sardines  and  dip  in  cracker  dust. 
Bake  in  a  good  oven  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  transfer  to 
strips  of  crustless  toast.  Squeeze  in  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  on  each  sardine  and  serve,  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

BUMMER'S  CUSTARD. 
Take  half  a  pound  of  Roquefort  cheese,  divide  into  three 
equal  parts.  Rub  up  one-third  with  olive  oil,  one-third  with 
Worcestershire  sauce,  and  one-third  w^th  cognac.  Mix  all 
together  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  custard,  and  add  a 
dash  of  cayenne.  This  is  delicious  served  on  hot  toast  or 
crackers. 

CANAPE  BELMONT. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  chicken  and  a  couple  of  sticks  of 
celery,  chop  them  together  fine  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  vinegar.  Let  this  stand  a  while,  then  squeeze  dry  and 
add  two  tablespoons ful  of  mayonnaise  dressing  and  mix  well. 
Take  two  fresh  tomatoes  and  slice  in  pieces  about  an  eighth  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  trim  some  toast  to  the  same  size.  Lay  the 
tomatoes  on  top  of  this,  and  then  spread  the  chicken  over. 
Decorate  with  stufifed  olives  placed  in  the  center.  To  ftiake 
this  look  pretty  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

CANAPE  CAREME. 
Take  half  a  lobster,  and  chop  very  fine  with  four  small 
sweet  pickles.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  tarragon  vine- 
gar. Let  stand  for  five  minutes,  then  squeeze  out  the  juice, 
add  two  tablespoon fuls  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  mix  well  and 
spread  over  toast  or  small  saltine  crackers.  This  may  also 
be  used  for  sandwich  filling  by  adding  some  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 


14  CANAPES  AND  ENTREES. 

CANAPES  OF  CRABS. 
Have  six  round  slices  of  bread,  free  from  crust,  and  fry 
till  brown.  Have  a  cupful  of  chopped  crab  meat,  and  chop 
it  again  to  almost  a  paste,  with  a  tablespoon  ful  of  oil,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  with  salt,  pepper 
and  mustard.  Add  to  it  at  the  last  a  teaspoonful  of  sherry, 
and  with  the  mixture  spread  the  slices  of  fried  bread. 

PATE  a  la  BERNHARDT. 
Take  one  chicken  liver  and  boil  it  about  three  minutes. 
Then  take  two  hard  boiled  eggs  and  a  medium  sized  onion 
and  chop  them  altogether  very  fine  and  mix  with  enough 
butter  to  make  a  paste.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and 
spread  on  thin  slices  of  white  bread  with  lettuce. 

CANAPE  DEMIDOFF. 
For  Four  People. 
Take  a  box  of  sardines  and  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter, 
and  strain'  through  a  fine  wire  sieve.  Mix  thoroughly  with  a 
whip  or  spoon,  gradually  adding  four  tablespoonfuls  of  thicl< 
cream,  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed.  Spread  the  paste  over 
toast  cut  in  any  fancy  shape  desired,  and  garnish  the  edges 
with  chopped  olives  or  fillets  of  anchovies. 

CANAPE  A  LINDIENNE. 
For  Four  People. 
Take  four  hard-boiled  eggs  and  mash  them  through  2 
sieve,  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  and  a  pinct 
of  curry  and  mix  well  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed.  Aftei 
seasoning  to  taste,  spread  over  toast.  Take  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  chutney  from  which  the  liquid  has  been  drained  anc 
chop  fine.  Put  a  teaspoonful  of  this  in  the  center  of  th^ 
canape  just  before  serving. 


CANAPES  AND  ENTREES.  15 

PIMENTO  CANAPES. 
Pound  to  a  paste  two  canned  pimentos  and  mix  with  one- 
third    cup    of    creamed    butter.     Spread    toasted    rounds    of 
bread  with  mixture,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

CANAPE  a  la  RUSSE. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  chicken,  and  a  couple  of  sticks  of 
celery.  Chop  them  together  fine,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  vinegar.  Let  this  stand  awhile,  then  squeeze  dry  and 
add  two  tablespoon fuls  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  mix 
well.  Serve  on  toast.  This  can  also  be  used  to  stuflf  rolls, 
and  with  thin  slices  of  ham,  makes  delicious  sandwiches. 

CANAPE  a  la  REINE.  . 
To  the  contents  of  a  small  can  of  caviar,  add  one-half  of 
a  very  small  onion  chopped  fine,  mix  well,  and  add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Spread  this  over  toast  well  buttered,  which 
may  be  cut  in  any  fancy  shape  desired.  Chop  together  a 
hard-boiled  egg  and  a  little  chives  or  parsley,  and  garnish 
the  edges  of  the  toast  with  it.     Serve  cold. 

SARDELLEN-TORTE. 

1  lb.  Sardellen.  1  tablespoonful  chopped 

4  oz.  Parmesan  cheese.  green  herbs, 

4  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  capers, 

1  small  toast  loaf,  2  tablespoons ful  lemon  juice. 

Cut  the  bread  into  slices,  removing  crusts,  and  toast 
it.  Butter  a  dish  well  and  place  the  pieces  of  toast  on  it. 
Put  a  layer  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  each  piece  of  toast, 
and  on  that  arrange  the  Sardellen,  which  have  been  previ- 
ously soaked  in  milk,  strewing  over  them  a  few  capers  and 
the  chopped  herbs.  Then  pour  the  lemon  juice  over  and  the 
butter,  which  has  in  the  meanwhile  been  oiled;  on  the  top, 
sprinkle  another  layer  of  Parmesan  cheese  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  about  ten  minutes. 

Serve  as  an  entree. 


16  CANAPES  AND  ENTREES. 

STUFFED  ANCHOVIES. 

Split  open  some  anchovies,  wash  them  well  in  white  win 
and  bone  them.  Mince  a  little  cooked  fish  of  any  kind,  plac 
in  a  basin  with  very  fine  breadcrumbs,  and  make  it  into  ; 
paste  by  adding  yolk  of  eggs.  Stuff  the  anchovies  with  thi 
mixture,  dip  into  frying  batter,  plunge  into  a  frying-pan  o 
boiling  fat  and  fry  to  a  light  color.  Take  out  when  done 
drain  and  arrange  on  the  dish,  and  serve  with  a  garnish  o 
fried  parsley. 


DEVILED  SARDINES. 
Take  six  large  sardines  and  scrape  off  the  skin  and  put  i: 
a  pie-plate.  Take  one  teaspoon ful  of  English  mustard  wit! 
two  tablespoonsful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  add  a  pincl 
of  cayenne  pepper,  and  cover  the  sardines  with  this.  Bak 
in  a  hot  oven  for  about  three  minutes.  Have  three  pieces  o 
toast  about  one  and  one-half  inches  broad  by  three  long,  we" 
buttered  and  hot,  and  put  two  sardines  on  each  and  serv 
with  a  piece  of  lemon. 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK. 

4  chicken  livers,  boiled  and     1/16  teaspoon  cayenne  pep- 
mashed,  per  sauce, 

2  tablespoons  anchovy  2  yolks, 

paste,  1  cup  cream, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  J^  teaspoon  salt, 

I  yolk,  Toast. 

Mix  paste  of  livers  and  anchovy,  butter,  1  yolk,  salt  anc 
pepper;  spread  this  on  toast  and  put  in  the  oven,  then  mak' 
a  sauce  (in  the  double  boiler),  of  two  yolks,  slightly  stirre( 
with  one  cup  cream;  cook  together,  and  pour  over  tliesprea( 
toast. 


Sou 


ps 


BOUILLON. 

2  lbs.    lean   beef,   middle  of     1/3     cup     each     of     carrot, 

round,  onion,  celery, 

2  lbs.  veal  bone,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

2  lbs.  marrow  bones,  %  teaspoon  pepper, 

3  lbs.  chicken  or  fowl,  %.  teaspoon  nutmeg,  grated, 
6  quarts  cold  water,                    A  few  grains  of  sugar. 

Clean  chicken,  separate  it  at  the  joints,  and  place  in  soup 
kettle,  with  the  veal  bones.  Cut  beef  into  small  pieces  and 
brown  in  hot  spider  with  the  marrov/  from  the  marrow  bones, 
and  remove  to  soup  kettle.  Add  the  cold  water.  Heat 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  skim  if  you  want  a  clear  soup. 
Let  simmer  slowly  for  5  hours.  Add  the  vegetables  and  let 
boil  one  hour  longer.    Strain  and  then  season  to  taste. 

The  chicken  should  be  removed  as  soon  as  tender.  It  can 
be  served  with  any  well  flavored  sauce  or  used  for  salads  or 
croquettes.. 

CONSOMME. 

5  lbs.  shin  bone,  1  small  onion,  sliced, 

4  lbs.  lean  beef,  1  bay  leaf, 

1  carrot,  cut,  Chicken  bones  or  cold  left 
1  potato,  cut,  over  chicken, 

1/16  teaspoon  red  pepper,  4  quarts  water. 
%.  cup  celery,  cut, 

Place  meat  and  bone  in  soup  kettle,  add  the  cold  water, 
let  stand  1  hour.  Let  slowly  come  to  the  boiling  point  and 
simmer  slowly  4  or  more  hours.  Add  vegetables,  boil  1  hour 
longer.  Strain  all  through  a  sieve  and  season  when  cold; 
skim  off  fat.     Serve  hot. 


18  SOUPS. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 
3  to  4  lbs.  chicken,  2  stalks  of  celery,  or, 

3  to  4  qts.  water,  5^  cup  celery  root,  diced, 

1  tablespoon  salt,  %.  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  onion,  1/8  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Select  an  old  hen.  Singe,  clean  and  joint;  then  salt  and 
let  stand  several  hours  or  over  night.  Put  on  to  boil  in  cold 
water  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil  quickly.  Skim  thoroughly,  if 
you  want  a  clear  soup.  Let  simmer  slowly  three  or  more 
hours,  add  the  vegetables,  boil  1  hour  longer,  strain,  remove 
fat  and  add  seasoning  to  taste.  Take  out  the  chicken  before 
it  falls  to  pieces  and  use  for  salads,  croquettes  or  with  brown 
sauce.  Serve  soup  hot  with  noodles,  dumplings,  or  almost 
any  of  the  soup  garnishings. 

BARLEY  BROTH. 

Put  a  trimmed  sheep's  head  or  two  pounds  of  fleshy 
shin  of  beef  into  half  a  gallon  of  water,  adding  a  teacup- 
ful  of  well- washed  and  strained  barley  (Pearl),  two  sliced 
onions  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  together  with  half  a 
dozen  of  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes  and  a  little  thyme ;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  and  simmer  for  three  or  four 
hours,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  the  meat  and  vegeta- 
bles settling  at  the  bottom  and  burning.    Serve  very  hot. 

MUTTON  SOUP. 
J^  lb.  mutton  (neck),  2  potatoes, 

2  onions,  1  qt.  cold  water, 

2  tablespoons  rice,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cut  the  mutton  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  a  stew  pot 
with  the  cold  water.     Cook  slowly  4  or  5  hours. 

One  hour  before  serving  add  the  sliced  potatoes,  onions, 
rice  and  seasoning.  Thicken,  if  desired,  with  a  little  floui; 
wet  in  cold  water. 


SOUPS. W 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

2  lbs.  shin  of  beef,  ^  meat,  ^  fat  and  bone. 
2  qts.  cold  water,  1  small  onion, 

2  teaspoons  salt,  J^  small  carrot, 

}i  teaspoon  pepper,  ^  small  turnip, 

1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  sprig  parsley, 

1  cup  tomato,  1  piece  of  celery  root, 

y2  cup  cabbage,  30  pods  of  shelled  peas. 

Wipe  the  meat,  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Put  it  with  the 
salt  into  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  3^  hour.  Simmer  4 
hours;  then  add  the  vegetables  cut  fine  and  the  seasoning. 
Cook  1  hour  longer,  strain  and  cool.  When  ready  to  use, 
remove  cake  of  fat,  bring  the  stock  to  a  boil,  adding  more 
salt  if  necessary. 


GREEN  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Cut  head  off  turtle,  let  bleed  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing open  shell,  take  out  entrails,  then  clean  the  liver,  heart 
and  meat  part.  Skin  feet,  and  put  whole  in  boiling  water  for 
two  minutes.  Boil  feet  in  hot  water  until  tender.  Make 
a  soup  stock  the  day  previous,  and  reserve  3  pts.  Brown 
1>2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  then  add  1  onion  chopped 
fine,  '3  oz.  chopped  ham,  a  tiny  bit  of  garlic,  until  all  is 
brown,  then  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  smooth  add 
soup  stock,  1  cupful  canned  tomatoes,  a  tiny  pinch  of  red 
pepper,  nutmeg,  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  green  thyme 
chopped  fine.  Cool  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  into  another 
saucepan,  add  turtle  meat  cut  up  in  pieces  and  let  cook  un- 
til meat  is  tender.  Then  add  1  glassful  Madeira  or  sherry 
wine,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Skim  grease  off  top,  slice  lemon 
in  bits,  put  in  soup  tureen.  Let  soup  cook  ten  minutes 
more,  pour  into  tureen  and  serve  hot. 


20  SOUPS. 

ONION  SOUP  a  la  SAVARIN. 

Put  one  tablespoon ful  of  table  butter  in  a  frying-pan. 
Two  good  sized  onions  sliced  and  hashed  and  fry  till  lightly 
browned.  Be  sure  not  to  burn.  Then  place  the  onions  in  a 
little  earthen  casserole,  and  cover  with  soup  stock.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  toast  in  the  liquid  and  sprinkle  freely  with 
grated  cheese,  then  put  the  casserole  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  very  hot. 

POTAGE  A  LA  PINE  POINT. 

For  12  People. 

Put  one  quarter  pound  of  butter  in  stew  pan,  with  cel- 
ery and  onions  cut  fine.  Let  smother  for  a  few  minutes; 
then  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Make  whole  a  light 
brown.  Add  stock  to  give  it  the  right  thickness.  Let  this 
boil  for  one  hour. 

To  make  dumplings,  take  one  egg,  one-half  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  parsley  and  salt.  Let  same  run  through  a  coarse 
sieve  into  boiling  soup.  Before  serving,  add  one  hard  boiled 
Qgg  chopped  fine  and  sherry  wine  to  taste. 

ITALIAN  SOUP. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  a  piece  of  raw  ham  with  one-half 
pound  of  chopped  bacon  and  about  one  and  one-half  break- 
fast cupfuls  of  haricot  beans.  Wash  a  savoy  cabbage  and 
cut  it  into  fine  shreds  and  put  it  in  with  the  above  ingred- 
ients ;  then  pour  in  three  quarts  or  more  of  broth  and  place 
the  stewpan  over  the  fire.  Cut  up  enough  celery  roots  into 
small  pieces  to  fill  a  breakfast  cup,  and  after  the  broth  has 
boiled  for  ten  minutes,  put  them  in  wdth  it.  Then  put  in 
the  stewpan  one  break^st  cupful  of  beans,  an  equal  amount 
of  greea  peas  and  asparagus  heads,  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  unwashed  and  unbroken  rice,  two  smoked  sausages,  and 
one  chopped  tomato.  Move  the  stewpan  to  the  side  of  the 
fire,  and  allow  the  contents  to  simmer  until  the  rice  is  done. 


SOUPS. 


21 


When  soft  mix  in  with  the  soup  a  fair  quantity  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Take  out  the  ham  and  sausage,  cut  the 
sausages  into  small  pieces,  puc  them  into  a  soup  tureen, 
pour  the  soup  and  vegetables  over  them  and  serve,  send  to 
the  table  at  the  same  time  a  plateful  of  croutons  of  fried 
bread. 

OX  TAIL  SOUP 

3  lbs.  lean  beef,  1  tablespoon  parsley  root, 

2  ox  tails,  diced, 

6  quarts  water,  2  tablespoons  fat, 

1  tablespoon  salt,  *  1  tablespoon  flour, 

1  large  onion,  diced,  3  carrots. 

%  cup  celery  root,  diced. 

Have  the  oxtails  split  and  cut  into  smai.  pieces  and  fry 
them  lightly  in  the  fat. 

Put  meat  and  oxtails  in  soup  kettle,  pour  over  the  water 
and  salt  and  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  then  let  cook  slowly 
but  steadily  4  hours  or  longer.  Add  the  vegetables,  boil  1 
hour  longer  and  reduce  stock  nearly  one-half.  Strain,  heat 
one  tablespoon  fat  in  a  spider,  add  a  tablespoon  flour,  brown, 
and  gradually  pour  on  a  cup  of  soup  stock;  stir  this  into  the 
remaining  stock  and  return  the  carrots  cut  in  small  dice. 
Serve  hot  with  croutons. 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  soup.     Time  of  preparation,  1  hour. 


^  lb.  asparagus, 
1  quart  water  or 
1  quart  w^ter  in  which  as- 
paragus has  been  boiled, 
Yolk  of  1  tgg^ 

Salt  to  taste. 


1  oz.  butter, 
1  oz.  flour, 

^  teaspoon ful  extract  of 
beef. 


22  SOUPS. 


Boil  the  asparagus  in  the  water  for  5  minutes.  Then 
take  out,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  back  again  till  tender, 
then  strain  off. 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together  until  absolutely  smooth 
and  heat  in  a  saucepan,  stirring  continually  until  of  a  golden 
color;  then,  still  stirring,  add  the  asparagus  water  and  allow 
to  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  add 
the  extract  of  beef,  a  lump  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut and  the  pieces  of  asparagus.  Just  before  serving,  stir  in 
the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

CREAM  OF  BARLEY  OR  RICE. 

J^  cup  pearl  barley,  J^  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  qt.  soup  stock,  1  cup  hot  cream, 

1  slice  onion,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 

,    1  teaspoon  salt. 

Cook  barley  and  onion  in  1  quart  of  boiling  water  45  min- 
utes, add  the  soup  stock  and  cook  until  tender.  Strain,  sea- 
son and  serve  with  thickening  made  of  one  cup  hot  cream 
stirred  gradually  into  the  two  beaten  yolks;  add  a  handful 
of  croutons  and  serve  at  once  or  it  will  curdle. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 

3  stalks  celery,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

3  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  slice  onion,  J4  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  cream. 

Break  celery  in  one-inch  pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortar 
Cook  in  double  boiler  with  onion  and  milk  20  minutes.  Re- 
move onion,  heat  the  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  first 
2/3  cup  and  gradually  the  rest  of  the  celery  broth,  and  the 
cream,  cook  until  smooth  and  slightly  thickened  and  serve  at 
once. 


SOUPS.  23 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP. 
1  can  corn,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  pt.  water,  1  slice  onion, 

1  qt.  hot  milk,  ^     2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  J^  teaspoon  white  pepper. 

Heat  the  milk  and  onion,  then  remove  onion.  Chop  the 
corn  and  cook  it  with  the  water  20  minutes.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  flour,  and  when  bubbling,  add  first  2/3  cup,  then  the 
rest  of  the  milk  gradually;  cook  till  slightly  thickened.  Add 
this  mixture  to  the  corn  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
If  you  wish  rub  the  corn  through  a  sieve.  Serve  hot,  with 
crackers. 

OORN  CHOWDER 

Scrape  about  one  quart  of  raw  sweet  Indian  corn  from  the 
cob,  and  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover, 
boiling  it  for  twenty  minutes.  Skim  out  the  corn  as  it  floats 
on  the  top;  pare  some  potatoes,  so  that  when  cut  into  slices 
they  will  fill  a  pint  measure,  soak  and  put  them  into  hot 
water  to  scald.  Fry  an  onion,  together  with  a  piece  of  salt 
pork  of  about  two  inches  cube,  and  strain  the  fat  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  the  corn  water.  Put  in  the  potatoes,  corn,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  place  the  pan  on  the  fire 
and  let  the  liquor  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  until 
the  corn  and  potatoes  are  tender.  Put  in  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  pint  of  potatoes,  one  pint  of  milk,  and  boil  up 
again.     It  must  be  served  hot  with  crisp  crackers. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP.  (No.  1.) 

1  qt.  can  tomatoes.  Boil  Yi  hour. 

1  qt.  water.  Strain. 

1  large  onion.  Add  Yz  teaspoon  sugar. 

1  bay  leaf.  Salt  and  Papricka  to  taste. 

3  or  3  sprigs  parsley  Also  pinch  of  soda, 
and  celery. 


24  SOUPS. 


Put  2  large  tablespoons  butter  in  double  boiler.  When 
melted  add  2  tablespoons  flour  and  mix  well.  Then  add 
tomato  stock  while  hot.  Serve  with  tablespoon  of  whipped 
cream  on  each. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP.  (No.  2.) 

J^  can  or  pt.  of  tomatoes,  %  teaspoon  white  pepper, 

%  teaspoon  soda,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  slice  onion,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  qt.  milk  or  milk  and  water 

2  teaspoons  sugar,  mixed. 

Cook  the  onion  with  the  milk.  Heat  butter,  add  flour  and 
seasoning,  2/3  cup  hot  milk,  then  the  rest  gradually.  Heat 
the  strained  tomatoes,  add  the  soda,  and  when  the  bubbling 
stops,  add  the  tomato  to  the  white  sauce. 

CREAM  OF  MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

y^  lb.  mushrooms,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  qt.  chicken  or  veal  broth,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  slice  onion,  1  cup  cream, 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Chop  mushrooms,  add  to  chicken  soup  with  onion,  cook 
20  minutes,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Reheat.  Put  butter  in 
sauce  pan,  add  flour,  when  it  bubbles  add  2/3  cup  mush- 
rooms and  soup  liquid,  stir  in  the  rest  and  then  add  the 
cream  and  seasonings. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP. 

1  quart   scalded  milk,  i^  teaspoon  soda, 

1  slice  onion,  1/3  cup  butter, 

4  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  can  tomatoes,  y^,  teaspoon  pepper, 

2  teaspoons  sugar,  4  or  5  drops  Tabasco  sauce. 


SOUPS.  25 


Scald  onion  with  milk.  Remove  onion  and  thicken 
milk  with  flour  diluted  with  cold  water  to  pour.  (There 
should  be  no  lumps  in  flour  paste.)  Cook  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  at  first,  after- 
wards occasionally.  Put  tomatoes  in  a  sauce-pan  and  cook 
until  moisture  is  well  driven  off.  There  should  be  two  cups 
of  pulp.  Rub  through  puree  strainer;  add  sugar  and  soda. 
Add  the  tomato  mixture  to  the  thickened  milk,  then  strain 
into  hot  soup  tureen  over  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  Tabasco 
sauce. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

3    potatoes  (cut  small),  2  teaspoons  chopped  celery, 

2     teaspoons  chopped  onions.  2  teaspoons  parsley  (chopped 

Yi  teaspoon  salt,  fine), 

1     quart  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

yi  teaspoon  white  pepper,  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Heat  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  the  onions  and  celery, 
and  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  Add  potato,  cover,  and  cook 
two  minutes.  Add  the  water  and  boil  one  hour.  Add  more 
boiling  water  as  it  evaporates.  Bind  the  remaining  flour  and 
butter,  add  some  potato  liquid  and  cook.  Combine  the  mix- 
ture and  serve  hot  with  the  croutons.  Any  cold  cooked  veg- 
etable, left  over,  may  be  added. 

WHITE  BEAN  SOUP. 

Use  three  quarts  of  soup  stock  to  each  breakfast  cup- 
ful of  vegetables,  such  as  onions,  carrots  and  turnips,  cut 
up  into  small  pieces,  having  more  of  the  onions  than  the 
rest  of  the  vegetables,  and  three  breakfast  cupfuls  of  white 
beans.  Boil  for  one  hour,  then  add  a  very  little  flour  moist- 
ened, and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  sprinkling  in  a  little 
parsley.    Turn  the  soup  into  a  tureen  and  serve. 


26  SOUPS. 

CREAM  OF  SORREL. 

Steam  three  or  four  handfuls  of  well-washed  sorrel,  with 
one  ounce  of  butter.  After  cooking  for  ten  minutes,  rub 
through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  add  one  pint  of  bechamel 
sauce,  and  one  quart  of  white  broth,  season  with  one-half 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and 
let  it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Thicken  the  soup  with  one 
teacupful  of  cream  and  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  well- 
beaten  together  and  serve  with  slices  of  bread  or  toast. 

CREAM  OF  LIMA  BEANS. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  a  little  flour  and 
the  Lima  Beans,  seasoned  with  salt.  Moisten  them  with 
some  white  broth,  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain 
them  through  a  sieve  and  serve  with  some  cream  and  small 
croutons  souffles. 

PEA  PUREE. 

2  cups  dried  peas,  J/^  teaspoon  sugar, 

3  pints  cold  water,  IJ^ teaspoons  salt, 

%  lb.  of  bacon  or  other  fat,        1  speck  white  pepper, 
1  large  onion. 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  peas. 

Soak  over  night,  or  for  several  hours  in  cold  water. 

Put  them  on  to  boil  in  three  pints  of  fresh,  cold  water 
and  let  them  simmer  until  dissolved.  Keep  well  scraped 
from  the  sides  of  the  kettle. 

When  soft,  rub  through  a  strainer,  add  a  little  boiling 
water  or  soup  stock,  add  seasoning  and  beat. 

Put  bacon  cut  in  small  cubes  into  a  frying  pan  and  cook 
until  light  yellow,  add  onion  cut  in  dice  and  continue  cook- 
ing with  the  bacon  until  brown.  Serve  puree  like  mashed 
potatoes.  Pour  the  bacon  and  onion  over  it  before  serv- 
ing.   Serve  hot.    Add  croutons. 


SOUPS.  27 

BISQUE  OF  CRABS. 

Place  a  dozen  live  cra"bs  in  some  cold  water  with  a  little 
salt,  and  let  them  soak  there  for  one  hour,  then  hash  up  a 
couple  of  ounces  of  carrot  with  an  equal  quantity  of  onion, 
and  fry  them  together  with  a  little  butter  in  a  saucepan 
large  enough  to  hold  the  crabs,  add  a  little  parsley  in  sprigs, 
thyme  and  bay  leaf,  seasoning  with  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  bot- 
tle of  white  wine  and  a  little  white  stock,  then  cover  with 
the  lid  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  after  which  remove 
the  crabs,  strain  the  broth,  and  place  it  one  side  for  twenty 
minutes,  when  the  top  should  be  poured  off.  Next,  remove 
the  shells  from  the  crabs,  taking  out  the  lungs  from  both 
sides,  and  wash  each  one  at  a  time  in  some  slightly  warmed 
water,  removing  the  small  legs,  then  drain  them  and  pound 
to  a  paste,  with  about  half  their  quantity  of  cooked  rice, 
add  a  little  of  the  juice  in  which  they  have  been  cooked, 
drain  first  through  a  sieve  and  then  through  a  tammy-cloth, 
and  mix  in  half  a  pint  of  bechamel  sauce.  Add  a  little  salt 
and  red  pepper,  and  place  over  the  fire  just  previous  to 
serving,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil,  adding  an 
eighth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  mix  with  a  spoon  until 
entirely  melted,  and  serve  with  bread  crusts  fried  in  butter. 

,  LOBSTER  BISQUE. 

2  lbs.  lobster,  ^  cup  flour, 

2  cups  cold  water,  1^  teaspoons  salt, 

4  cups  milk,  A  few  grains  cayenne. 

Remove  the  meat  from  lobster  shell.  Add  cold  water  to 
body  bones  and  tough  end  of  claws, cut  in  pieces  ;bring  slow- 
ly to  boiling  point  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  reserve 
liquor,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 
Scald  milk  with  tail  meat  of  lobster,  finely  chopped;  strain 
and  add  to  liquor.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne ;  then  add 
tender  claw  meat,  cut  in  dice,  and  body  meat.  When  coral  is 


28  SOUPS. 

found  in  lobster,  wash,  wipe,  force  through  fine  strainer,  put 
in  a  mortar  with  butter,  work  until  well  blended,  then  add 
flour,  and  stir  into  soup.  If  a  richer  soup  is  desired,  white 
stock  may  be  used  in  place  of  water. 

CLAM-JUICE  BROTH. 

After  washing  the  clams  in  their  shells  in  cold  water, 
place  them  on  a  stove  in  a  very  thick  saucepan,  and  as  they 
become  hot,  their  shells  will  open;  then  carefully  pour  out 
the  broth,  strain  it  through  a  closely  w^oven  cloth,  s^eason 
to  suit  the  taste  and  serve. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

1  qt.  clams,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  dice  J4     H  teaspoon  pepper, 
inch  square,  4  teaspoons  butter, 

2  in.  sq.  fat  salt  pork,  4  cups  milk, 

1  sliced  onion,  8  crackers. 

Pick  over  and  drain  the  clams  to  remove  the  pieces  of 
shells.  Cut  the  pork  into  fine  pieces  and  try  out;  add  the 
onions,  fry  5  minutes,  add  the  cubed  potatoes,  clam  liquor  and 
water  enough  to  cover.  Cook  until  nearly  tender,  pour  into 
a  sauce  pan,  and  add  the  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  When 
the  potatoes  are  done  and  the  milk  is  boiling  hot,  add  the 
clams  and  lastly  the  crackers.  The  clams  can  be  put  in  whole 
or  cut  up.  They  should  not  be  cooked  longer  than  three 
minutes,  as  long  cooking  makes  them  tough. 

OYSTER  STEW. 

2  cups  scalded  milk,*  A  little  pepper, 

1  pt.  oysters,  J^  teaspoon  salt, 

I  tablespoon  butter. 
When  the  milk  is  hot,  put  the  oysters  and  butter  in  a  sauce 
pan  and  heat  until  the  edges  curl.    Add  the  milk  and  season- 
ing.   Cook  one  minute  and  serve  at  once. 


SOUPS.  29 


MARYLAND  STEW. 

Take  one  quart  oysters.  Put  one  pint  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  let  it  simmer,  then  rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  one  spoonful  of  flour  together  and  stir  in. 
Put  in  also  one-fourth  lb.  butter  in  small  pieces,  one-half 
teaspoonful  whole  allspice,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and 
pepper.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  oysters 
and  serve  immediately. 

PUREE  OF  LENTILS. 

Soak  one  pint  of  German  Lentils  in  one  quart  of  water 
over  night.  Put  them  on  the  fire  with  two  quarts  of  com- 
mon bouillon.  Add  one  onion,  one  carrot,  one-half  stalk 
of  celery,  and  about  one  pound  knuckle  of  ham  or  a  ham 
bone.  Let  them  boil  until  tender.  (It  will  take  two  hours 
or  more.)  Rub  through  a  sieve;  heat  the  strained  soup 
again,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Serve 
with  bread  croutons,  or  frankfurt  sausages  cut  in  small 
pieces.    Season  with  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt  if  necessary. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO-CREOLE. 
Clean  and  wash  a  young  fowl,  and  then  cut  it  into  four 
pieces  (Two  legs  and  two  breasts).  Fry  the  fowl  in  a 
spider  with  a  few  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  until  it  becomes 
a  light  brown  color.  Fry  also  in  the  same  fat  two  large 
onions  cut  in  thick  slices,  four  scalded  and  peeled  tomatoes 
cut  in  halves,  and  two  green  peppers  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  the  whole  into  a  saucepan.  Cover  it  with  three  quarts 
of  water  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour.  (Have  the  saucepan 
covered.)  Then  add  one-half  a  cup  of  rice  and  twenty  fresh 
okra  cut  in  pieces  about  an  inch  long.  Boil  for  another  half 
an  hour,  or  more,  until  the  fowl  is  tender.  Take  the  fowl 
and  the  pork  out  of  the  soup.  Tear  the  white  meat  of  the 
fowl  into  shreds  and  add  these  shreds  to  the  soup.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and  serve. 


30  SOUPS. 

This  soup  is  not  very  attractive  looking  because  the  in- 
gredients have  been  cooked  a  great  deal,  but  in  flavor  it  is 
much  superior  to  common  chicken  gumbo. 


CRACKER  BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Take  a  piece  of  sweet  butter  (not  too  much)  stir  it  a 
few  minutes,  1  or  2  eggs,  stir  again,  a  little  salt  and  fine 
cracker  meal,  just  enough  to  be  able  to  make  round  balls 
out  of  it,  or  they  can  be  cut  out  with  the  spoon  right  in 
the  soup.  Boil  15  minutes.  If  you  like  parsley  you  can 
put  a  little  fine  chopped  in  it. 


SOUP  DUMPLINGS. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Pinch  of  cinnamon. 

^  teaspoon  sugar.  3  eggs  well  beaten. 

^  teaspoon  salt.  6  shredded  almonds. 

Add  cracker  crumbs  enough  to  roll.  Cream  butter  very 
well,  beat  eggs  very  well.  Cover  dumplings  when  in  soup 
and  boil  10  minutes. 


SOUP  MACAROONS. 

6  soaked  crackers.  6  shredded  almonds. 

2  well  beaten  eggs.  Pinch  of  salt. 

Yz  teaspoon  butter.  Pinch  of  sugar. 

Little  pepper. 
Enough  cracker  crumbs  to  hold  together.     Make  a  ball 
and  flatten  them.     Fry  in  butter  just  to  brown  them. 


Fisk 


BROILED  SHAD'S  ROE. 
Wash  a  shad's  roe  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  dry  on  a  clean 
towel,  place  it  between  the  bars  of  a  double  wire  gridiron, 
thickly  buttered,  and  broil  until  brown  on  both  sides.  When 
cooked  serve  it  with  butter,  lemon  juice  and  parsley,  pep- 
per and  salt.  A  garnish  of  sliced  cucumbers  may  be  served 
with  the  broiled  roe.  A  dish  of  mashed  potatoes  should 
also  accompany  it. 


BAKED  SMELTS. 

Clean  eighteen  or  twenty  smelts,  wipe  them  very  dry, 
and  put  them  on  a  baking  dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cooked  fine  herbs,  one-half  wineglassful  of  white  wine,  one- 
half  pinch  of  pepper,  one-half  pinch  of  salt,  and  cover  with 
six  whole  mushrooms  and  one-half  pint  of  Spanish  sauce. 
Sprinkle  lightly  with  breadcrumbs  and  a  little  warmed  but- 
ter, place  the  dish  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  sprinkle  over  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  The  smelts  can  be  boned 
if  desired. 


BAKED  FLOUNDERS. 

Take  two  flounders,  clean  and  split,  and  take  out  all  the 
small  bones.  Lay  the  fish  in  a  buttered  dish  and  strew 
some  chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  green  onions  and  rasped 
breadcrumbs;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  small  quan- 
tity of  grated  nutmeg.  Put  a  few  pieces  of  butter  on  the 
top  and  bake.  Make  a  sufficient  quantity  of  caper  sauce, 
flavoring  it  with  essence  of  anchovy  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  When  cooked,  drain  the  butter  from  the  fish, 
pour  over  the  sauce  and  serve. 


32  FISH. 

BROILED  SHAD  WITH  SORREL. 

Scale  and  draw  a  shad  which  has  a  soft  roe,  cut  off  the 
fins,  wipe  it,  and  make  incisions  on  both  sides.  Place  the 
shad  in  a  deep  dish,  baste  it  with  oil,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  macerate  for  one  hour.  Broil  the 
fish  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  and  basting  it  frequently  with 
the  oil  in  which  it  is  soaked.  Boil  a  quantity  of  sorrel  as 
for  garnish,  make  a  border  of  it  on  a  hot  dish,  place  the 
shad  in  the  center,  pour  over  a  little  parsley  sauce  and 
serve,  accompanied  by  a  sauceboatful  of  the  sauce. 


BAKED  BLUEFISH,  ITALIAN  STYLE. 

Score  and  scale  the  requisite  amount  of  bluefish  and 
place  it  in  a  buttered  pan  with  half  a  wineglassful  of  wine, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  mushroom  liquor  and  a  little  very 
finely  chopped  onion,  six  chopped  mushrooms,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  cover  the  dish  with  buttered  paper 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  pven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  re- 
move and  lay  on  a  dish.  Place  the  liquor  in  a  stewpan 
add  a  gill  of  Spanish  sauce,  with  one  wineglassful  of  white 
wine,  and  reduce  for  two  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
the  fish  with  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve,  with 
fancy  croutons  of  bread. 


BLUE  FISH  a  la  LEE. 

Split  the  bone  of  a  bluefish,  place  on  a  buttered  pan. 
Cream  with  one-quarter  cup  of  butter,  add  two  egg  yolks, 
stir  until  blended,  then  add  two  tablespoons  each  onion  ca- 
pers, pickles  and  parsley,  three  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  one- 
half   teaspoon   salt,   and   one-quarter   teaspoon   pepper. 


FISH.  33 

KINGFISH   SAUTE   WITH  FINE   HERBS. 

Cut  off  the  heads  and  tails  of  three  kingfish.  Split  the 
fish  in  two,  and  remove  the  bones.  Dip  them  in  flour  and 
fry  in  butter.  When  cooked  dish  them  up.  Add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  to  the  butter  the  fish  has  been  cooked  in,  and 
also  a  little  chopped  parsley,  chives,  chervil  and  terragon. 
Pour  this  over  the  fish  and  surround  with  slices  of  lemon. 


FILLET  DE  SOLE. 

Two  pounds  flounder,  boned  and  skinned  and  boiled  in 
water,  with  salt,  cayenne,  onion,  celery  and  carrot.  Boil  only 
a  few  minutes,  drain,  place  in  two  long  pieces  on  a  well  but- 
tered platter  with  a  space  between.  In  this  space  put  oysters 
or  clams,  some  mushrooms,  tomatoes  strained,  and  plenty  of 
butter  and  a  little  cracker  dust.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

ROLLED  SOLES  IN  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
For  Eight  Persons. 

Time  of  preparation:  Two  hours. 
4^-^  lbs.  soles.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

1^  pt.  white  sauce,  >^  teaspoon  meat  extract. 

1  gill  Rhine  wine,  A  small  bottle  of  mushrooms, 

4  oz.  butter,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

5  yolks  of  eggs, 

Skin  and  fillet  the  soles  carefully.  Sprinkle  flour  over 
each  fillet,  roll  and  tie  round  with  a  thread.  Make  1^ 
pints  white  sauce,  salt  it  very  lightly  and  stir  into  it  half 
a  teaspoon ful  of  Meat  Extract.  Warm  up  the  sauce 
in  an  enamel  saucepan,  place  the  rolled  fillets  in  it  and 
boil  for  3  minutes.    Then  take  out  and  place  on  a  hot  dish. 


34  FISH. 

BAKED  SOLE. 

For  8  persons.    Time  of  preparation :    Two  hours. 

4^  lbs.  soles,  1  tablespoonful  chopped  fresh 
2  oz.  breadcrumbs,  herbs, 

1  shallot,  chopped  fine,  3      tablespoonfuls      chopped 
4  oz.  butter,  mushrooms, 

1  gill  white  wine,  Lemon  juice, 

1  gill  stock,  A  pinch  of  pepper. 

Clean  and  skin  the  soles  and  cut  up  into  medium-sized 
pieces.  Rub  them  over  with  salt,  and  sprinkle  over  them  the 
shallot,  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  stand  in  a 
cool  place  for  J4  hour. 

Butter  a  mould  and  line  it  with  the  finely-chopped  fresh 
herbs.  Place  the  fish  upon  these  and  cover  with  a  layer  of 
chopped  mushrooms  and  the  rest  of  the  herbs,  putting  little 
lumps  of  butter  on  the  top.  Pour  over  the  wine  and  stock, 
then  put  on  a  top  layer  of  breadcrumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  half  an  hour. 


BROILED  HALIBUT. 

Cut  some  slices  from  a  halibut,  dust  over  salt  and  pep- 
per, place  them  in  a  dish,  cover  with  warm  butter  and  leave 
for  half  an  hour.  Roll  them  in  flour  and  broil  over  very 
clear  fire  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Place  them  on  a 
dish  with  a  garnish  of  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  and  serve. 
The  slices  of  halibut  should  be  about  one  inch  thick,  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  may  be  used  for  every  pound 
weieht  of  fish 


FISH.  35 

HALIBUT  AND  SHRIMP  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

Part  1.  Part  2. 

V/2  lbs.  halibut,  1>^  lb.  shrimp, 

2  slices  onion,  1       cup  white  sauce, 
1  cup  white  sauce,  %  cup  sherry  wine, 

3  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.     3      yolks,  beaten. 

Cook  fish  in  salted,  boiling  water  with  onion  until  tender, 
(1  teaspoon  salt  to  1  quart  boiling  water).  Drain  and  shred. 
To  one  cup  of  the  hot  sauce  add  the  shredded  fish  and  then 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Place  in  center  of  hot  platter  and 
set  in  oven  with  oven  door  open.  Take  the  boiled  shrimp,  re- 
move the  shell  and  break  in  small  pieces.  Add  the  wine  to 
the  remaining  cup  of  white  sauce,  and  pour  the  hot  sauce 
gradually  on  the  beaten  yolks.  Mix  the  beaten  yolks  with  a 
little  cold  water.  Add  the  shrimp,  heat  thoroughly  and  place 
as  border  around  the  halibut  and  serve  at  once. 

HALIBUT  WITH  LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  halibut  boned  and  picked  raw, 
chop  fine,  add  salt,  cayenne  and  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs, 
one  cup  cream,  whipped.  Pack  into  a  mould  and  boil  thirty 
minutes.  Serve  in  the  center  of  a  platter  with  Lobster  a  la 
Newburg,  around  it,  substituting  lobster  in  place  of  shrimp 
in  the  recipe  above. 

HALIBUT  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

ly^  lbs.  halibut,  1  red  pepper, 

1  cup  white  sauce,  >^  teaspoon  onion,  chopped, 

1  cup  strained  tomatoes. 
Boil  and  shred  the  fish.     Make  white  sauce.     Add  stewed 
and  strained  tomatoes  and  the  onion  and  the  pepper,  chopped. 
Pour  this  sauce  over  the  fish  and  serve  hot  on  toast. 


36  FISH. 

HALIBUT  STEAK. 

Light  your  burners  three  minutes  before  the  steaks  go  on 
and  have  your  dripping  pan  ready.  Lay  the  steaks  in  salt 
and  water  for  half  an  hour,  then  marinate  them  in  a  bath  of 
salad  oil  and  lemon  juice  for  another  half  hour.  Wipe  dry 
and  broil,  turning  twice  carefully.  Lay  upon  a  hot  dish, 
anoint  with  a  green  sauce  of  butter,  lemon  juice  and  minced 
parsley,  beaten  to  a  cream;  set  in  the  oven  for  a  minute,  and 
serve. 

SALMON  PATTIES. 
One  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  can  of  salmon  (remove 
bones)    one  and  one-half   cups   cracker  crumbs   rolled   fine. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Drop  in  tablespoons 
in  hot  frying  pan  in  butter  or  meat  fryings. 

CURRIED  SALMON. 

One  can  best  salmon,  one  tablespoonful  olive  oil,  one  small 
onion,  minced,  one  teaspoonful  curry  powder,  one  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  three  gills  hot  water,  one  scant  teaspoonful  salt, 
juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Two  hours  before  it  is  needed  turn  the  contents  of  a  can 
of  salmon  out  upon  a  platter.  Pick  it  to  pieces  with  a  fork, 
removing  all  bits  of  bone  or  skin,  and  drain  of?  the  liquid. 
Brown  the  onion  in  the  oil,  stir  in  the  flour  mixed  with  the 
curry  powder,  and  when  they  are  well  blended  put  in  the 
boiling  water,  salt,  turn  in  the  salmon  and  let  it  become  very 
hot,  then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON. 

This  is  a  good  supper  dish.  Remove  all  bones  and  bits  of 
skin  from  one  can  of  salmon.  Then  put  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  alternate  layers  of  salmon  and  cracker  crumbs,  with 
crumbs  on  top.     Sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  lemon 


FISH.  37 

juice  and  bits  of  butter  on  each  layer  of  salmon.  Put  gen- 
erous pieces  of  butter  on  top  layer  of  crumbs  and  just  cover 
with  milk.     Bake  about  one-half  hour. 

FILLETS  OF  SALMON,  PARISIAN  STYLE. 

Cut  some  slices  of  salmon  into  small  fillets,  place  them 
in  a  buttered  saute  pan;  sprinkle  a  small  quantity  of  pep- 
per and  salt  over,  baste  them  v^ith  clarified  butter,  and 
cover  v^rith  a  round  of  buttered  paper;  saute  them  over  a 
clear  fire.  Fix  a  croustade  on  a  hot  dish,  fill  it  with  oys- 
ters and  picked  shrimps  that  have  been  mixed  in  Holland- 
aise  sauce,  with  the  addition  of  some  chopped  parsley;  ar- 
range the  fillets  around  the  croustade,  garnish  with  parsley, 
pour  some  of  the  sauce  over  and  serve. 

BAKED  SALMON  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Take  a  middle  cut  of  salmon;  butter  a  large  sheet  of 
white  paper  and  wrap  the  salmon  in  it,  pinning  the  ends 
firmly  together.  Melt  four  ounces  of  butter  by  mixing 
with  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Lay  the  fish, 
wrapped  in  paper,  in  a  bakingpan  and  pour  over  the  butter 
and  water.  Cover  and  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an 
hour^  lifting  up  the  cover  now  and  then  to  see  that  the 
paper  is  not  burning.  Boil  one-half  pint  of  cream,  thick- 
ened with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch;  add 
to  this  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  small  quantity  each  of  pepper  and  salt.  When 
the  salmon  is  taken  out  of  the  paper  and  dished,  pour  half 
of  the'  sauce  over  it  and  serve  the  balance  of  it  in  a  sauce- 
boat. 


88  FISH. 

SALMON  TROUT,  BOILED. 

35^  lbs.  salmon  trout,  J^  can  tomatoes, 

^  of  a  cabbage,  cut  fine,  5  bay  leaves, 

1  carrot,  cut  fine,  1  qt.  boiling  water, 

1  onion,  cut  fine,  2  or  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  celery  root,  cut  fine,  J^  cup  cream, 

2  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  sherry, 

J4  teaspoon  peppercorns. 

Salt  the  fish  and  let  stand  several  hours.  Cook  the  vege- 
tables in  boiling  water,  add  the  peppercorns  and  boil  until 
th^  water  is  well  flavored,  about  1  hour;  add  fish  and  boil 
until  the  flesh  separates  from  the  bones.  Place  fish  on  plat- 
ter. Strain  the  fish  liquid.  Beat  yolk  well,  add  cream  and 
flavor  with  the  sherry.  Pour  the  hot  fish  liquid  over  the  egg 
mixture,  gradually,  stirring  constantly. 

Then  pour  over  the  fish;  set  in  the  oven  with  oven  door 
open,  to  keep  hot  and  serve  garnished  with  parsley.  It  will 
curdle  if  left  too  long  in  stove  or  if  stove  is  too  hot 

SALMON  CREAMS. 

Use  one  can  of  salmon,  or  purchase  and  boil  one  pound 
of  fresh  salmon,  remove  bone  and  skin,  then  rub  and  pound 
the  fish  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  twelve  almonds  chopped 
fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  mix  and  add 
gradually  the  unbeaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  then  care- 
fully stir  in  a  half  pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Fill  into  timbale  moulds,  stand  these  in  a  baking  pan  of 
boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  .  Turn  on  a  heated  platter  and  serve  with  a  sauce 
Hollandaise  which  may  be  made  by  rubbing  together  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  of  butter.  Add  gradually 
one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  stir  a  moment  over  the  fire. 


FISH.  39 

Take  from  the  fire  and  add  carefully  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  tarragon  vinegar;  strain  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

BOILED  FISH  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE. 

3^2  lbs.  pike  or  salmon  trout, 
2  lemons,  juice  and  rind,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

2  yolks  of  eggs.  Salt  to  taste, 

1  cup  of  hot  fish  stock,  Chopped  parsley. 

Stir  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemons  with  the  well  beaten 
yolks,  add  the  juice  and  very  gradually  pour  on  the  hot  fish 
stock.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  sugar 
and  parsley.  Serve  with  fish,  cooked  in  boiling  water,  to 
which  salt,  onion,  whole  pepper,  parsley  and  a  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice  has  been  added.     Bone  the  fish. 

The  sauce  may  be  made  thicker  by  cooking  a  teaspoon  of 
cornstarch  (wet  in  cold  water)  with  the  strained  fish  stock, 
or  more  yolks  of  eggs  may  be  added. 

SALMON  TROUT  A  LA  CELINE. 

Four  lbs.  salmon  trout  salted  over  night.  Next  day 
boil  one-half  hour  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  same.  Two 
tablespoonsful  vinegar,  one  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one  carrot, 
added  to  the  water. 

Sauce  for  same. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard.  Chop  whites  of  eggs  with  sprig 
parsley,  one  large  onion,  three  dill  pickles.  Mash  yolks  of 
eggs  with  one  tablespoonful  of  oil.  When  smooth,  add  15 
cent  bottle  catsup,  three-fourths  pot  Dusseldorf  mustard,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon ful  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.    Mix. 

SWEET-SOUR  FISH. 

In  a  bowl  put  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  of  ginger  snaps  and  vinegar  enough  to  cover 


40  FISH. 

these;  then  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves, 
the  same  amount  of  ground  cinnamon  and  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  handful  of  raisins  and  one  lemon,  peeled 
and  sliced.  Now  put  into  your  fish  kettle  two  quarts  of 
water,  add  two  onions  and  half  of  a  celery  root;  cut  into 
slices  and  let  them  boil  for  half  an  hour;  then  take  a  fresh 
trout,  the  size  you  require,  cut  it  into  pieces  the  way  you 
wish  to  serve  it  and  lay  the  fish  in  the  boiling  water;  then 
pour  over  your  mixture  from  the  bowl  and  let  the  whole 
boil  slowly  on  top  of  the  stove  for  two  hours.  Do  not  stir 
it,  but  shake  the  kettle  gently  a  few  times  to  prevent  the 
fish  from  burning. 

FILLED  FISH. 

After  having  salted  a  three  or  four  pound  pickerel  sev- 
eral hours,  remove  the  skin  and  bones  and  chop  the  meat 
of  the  fish  very  fine.  While  chopping,  add  one  large  onion, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  one  egg,  and  about 
one-third  cupful  of  water.  Remove  the  crust  from  a  thick 
slice  of  bread  and  soak  the  bread  in  water,  then  press  out 
as  much  water  as  possible  and  add  this  bread  to  the  fish. 
When  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed,  form  the 
mixture  into  balls  and  boil  them  in  enough  hot  water  to 
cover  them.  To  flavor  this  water,  add  to  it  the  bones  and 
skin  of  the  fish,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  medium  sized  onion, 
salt  and  pepper.  When  the  fish  balls  are  boiled  sufficiently, 
lay  them  on  a  platter  with  a  skimmer.  Strain  the  liquid 
and  add  to  it  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  stir  it  on 
the  fire  until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point ;  then  pour  it  over 
the  fish  balls. 

FISH  AND  CHEESE  TIMBALES  OR  RAMIKINS. 

1^  lbs.  cold,  cooked  halibut,       1     teaspoon     Worcestershire 
chopped  fine,  sauce, 

2  cups  cream  sauce,  y^  cup  stock  cheese, 

}i  lb.  Parmesan  cheese. 


FISH.  41 


Follow  recipe  for  cream  sauce,  add  the  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  soup  stock,  mix  with  the  chopped  halibut,  place 
on  stove  and  heat.  Fill  in  well  buttered  ramikins  or  tim- 
bale  forms.  Sprinkle  plentifully  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  bake  15  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  in  a  pan  half 
filled  with  warm  water.     This  serves  9  people. 

FISH  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE.  ^^jM^^   i 

For  Eight  Persons. 
Time  of  preparation:     One  and  one-half  to  two  hours. 
4  lbs.  fish    (haddock,  pike,         2  oz.  flour, 

perch,      fresh     herring,     1  teaspoon  ful  meat  extract, 
cod,  tench),  dissolved    in     1>^     pints 

1^  lb.  tomatoes,  water. 

6  oz.  onions,  1  teaspoonful  sugar, 

3  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice, 

A  pinch  of  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 

Clean  the  fish  well,  dry  it  and  cut  into  medium-sized 
pieces. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  to  it  the  chopped 
onions.  When  they  have  been  in  the  butter  for  3  minutes, 
strew  in  the  flour  and  then  the  tomatoes,  cut  into  slices,  and 
the  water  in  which  the  meat  extract  has  been  dissolved. 

Let  all  boil  gently  for  }i  hour.  Then  pass  through  a  sieve, 
and  flavor  with  salt,  sugar,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.       / 

Place  the  pieces  of  fish  in  this  sauce  and  boil  them  in  it 
for  5  minutes.     Then  stir  in  the  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

FISH   FRITTERS. 

Pick  free  from  bones  a  quantity  of  any  kind  of  cold 
cooked  fish  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar;  take  a  small  onion, 
peel  and  pound  it  with  the  fish;  season  to  taste  with  salt 


42  FISH. 

and  pepper,  and  add  an  equal  bulk  of  mashed  potatoes,  mix 
well  together  and  make  all  into  a  paste  with  beaten  egg. 
Spread  the  paste  out  on  a  board,  cut  it  into  small  pieces 
about  three  inches  across  and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard  to  a 
light  brown.  Fold  a  napkin  over  a  hot  dish  and  pile  the 
fritters  on  it.  Garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  serve  with 
any  kind  of  fish  sauce. 

BOUILLABAISSE. 

Place  a  sufficient  quantity  of  mixed  fish,  such  as  soles 
whitefish  and  flounders  into  a  saucepan,  having  cut  them 
into  pieces,  and  add  some  sliced  onions,  one  or  two  sliced 
carrots,  three  shallots,  two  unpicked  cloves  of  garlic,  a 
bunch  of  thyme  and  parsley,  five  or  six  cloves,  two  bay- 
leaves,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  capsicum,  a  little  olive  oil  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  into  the  above  mixture  a 
couple  of  quarts  of  water  and  boil  gently  for  half  an  hour, 
the  lid  being  placed  on  the  pan.  When  sufficiently  cooked 
drain  the  fish  and  arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  Then  mix  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  saffron  with  the  soup  and  pass  through  a 
pointed  strainer  into  a  soup  tureen.  Serve  the  soup  with 
the  fish  and  a  plate  of  croutons  of  fried  bread. 

HADDOCK  SOUFFLE. 

One  cupful  of  cold  baked  or  boiled  haddock,  one  cupful 
of  mashed  potatoes,  mixed  together;  one-half  cupful  of  milk, 
added  gradually ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  stir  in  one  egg  well 
beaten,  put  in  a  buttered  mold  or  dish  and  set  in  the  oven 
till  hot;  then  beat  the  white  of  another  egg  stiff  and  stir 
into  it  the  yolk,  well  beaten,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heap 
over  the  fish  and  brown. 

CODFISH  WITH  TOMATOES. 

I     had  creamed  codfish  for  dinner;  also  stewed  tomatoes. 
When  dinner  was  over  there  was  some  creamed  codfish  left, 


FISH.  43 

also  some  stewed  tomatoes,  but  not  enough  of  either  one  to 
serve  for  another  meal.  I  minced  them  together  and  served 
on  dices  of  toast  and  was  surprised  at  what  a  nice  dish  it 
made.  No  one  guessed  but  what  it  was  something  a  French 
chef  had  given  me  the  recipe  for. 

CODFISH  CROQUETTES. 

Soak  the  whitest  and  best  part  of  salt  codfish  over  night, 
then  put  it  in  cold  water  and  let  it  simmer  on  the  range  until 
cooked,  then  mince  it  well  until  it  is  very  fine  and  light. 
To  two  cups  of  fish  allow  one  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Put  the 
milk  on  to  boil,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream  and  add 
to  the  boiling  milk.  When  this  has  become  thick  take  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  fish,  some  cayenne  pepper  and  a  little 
onion  juice.  Beat  all  until  very  light.  Stand  on  the 
ice  for  at  least  one  hour.  When  quite  cold  form  into  cro- 
quettes, roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  boiling  lard 
and  serve  with  shrimp  sauce  or  brown  sauce  seasoned  with 
Worcestershire  sauce. 

CODFISH  IN  CREAM   (BAKED). 

Mix  some  pieces  of  freshly  cooked  codfish,  free  from 
skin  and  bones,  with  some  cream  sauce.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  With  four  large  freshly  cooked  potatoes  (hot) 
two  ounces  of  butter,  and  two  eggs  mashed  thoroughly  to- 
gether, put  a  border  on  a  metal  baking  dish.  Fill  the  fish 
in  the  center  of  this  border.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  a 
little  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  butter,  and  bake  for 
twelve  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  the 
whole  is  nicely  browned. 

MATELOT  OF  CODFISH. 

Remove  the  head  and  bones  of  a  fish,  fill  the  insides  with 
stuffings  made  from  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  one  pint  of  bread- 
crumbs, a  little  pepper,  a  little  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 


44  FISH. 

butter,  one  egg,  half  an  onion  and  half  a  teaspoon ful  of 
chopped  parsley.  Take  six  slices  of  bacon,  put  three  on  the 
bottom  and  three  on  the  top  of  the  fish  and  bake  for  an  hour, 
basting  with  butter  and  gravy  made  from  the  bones  boiled 
in  water. 

FISH  PUDDING. 

2  lbs.  raw  halibut,  2  tablespoons  flour, 
1  cup  cream,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  cup  butter,  3  whites,  beaten  stiff. 

3  yolks, 

Shred  fish  from  skin  and  bone,  chop  fine,  add  cream 
slowly  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  other  ingredients, 
whites  last.  Butter  pudding  mould,  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley.  Boil  one  and  one-half  hours  and  serve  hot  with 
Sauce  Hollandaise. 

FRESH  MACKEREL  SAUTE  IN  BUTTER. 

Split  a  mackerel  in  two.  Remove  the  bones  and  head. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in  milk  and  flour,  fry  in 
butter  in  a  flat  fryingpan.  When  cooked  to  a  nice  golden 
color,  dish  up  on  a  platter.  Add  a  little  fresh  butter  to  the 
frying-pan,  and  pour  over  the  fish. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

1  lb.  can  salmon,  J^  cup  cracker  crumbs, 

y2  teaspoon  salt,  JA  teaspoon  grated  onion, 

cayenne  pepper,  1  well  beaten  egg, 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 
From  a  can  of  salmon,  opened  neatly,  take  the  fish  and 
mince  it  fine;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  tablespoon  ful  of 
chopped  parsley  or  celery  tops  and  cracker  crumbs ;  moisten 
it  with  a  raw  egg  and  mix  well,  turn  it  out  upon  a  dish ;  then 
roll  it  into  cones,  dip  these  in  beaten  egg  seasoned  with  salt 


FISH.  '    45 

and  pepper,  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs,  drop  into  deep,  hot 
fat  and  fry  a  delicg-te  brown,  drain  them  a  moment,  arrange 
neatly  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  Tartare  sauce. 

SALMON  TURBOT. 

Cook  together  a  pint  of  milk  and  three  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  steadily.  At  the  end  of  three 
minutes'  cooking  add  one-half  cup  of  butter  and,  as  soon  as 
this  is  blended,  take  the  mixture  from  the  fire.  When  nearly 
cold  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
stir  in  the  contents  of  a  can  of  salmon  flaked  into  bits.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  for  one-half  hour  and  serve  hot. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

2y2  cups  potatoes,  1  ^%g, 

1  cup  salt  codfish,  J^  teaspoon  pepper, 

Yi  tablespoon  butter. 
Wash  in  cold  water  and  shred  the  fish.  Wash,  pare  and 
cut  the  potatoes  in  pieces,  cook  the  fish  and  potatoes  together 
in  boiling  water  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain  very  dry 
over  fire,  mash  fine,  add  butter,  seasoning  and  beaten  tgg. 
Beat  well,  shape  on  a  spoon,  and  drop  into  deep  hot  fat.  Fry 
until  brown  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  If  they  break  apart 
add  a  little  more  ^gg. 

MARINADED  FRESH  HERRINGS. 

Scale  and  clean  the  herrings,  cutting  oflf  the  heads.  Wash 
them  well  and  lay  them  in  salt  for  2  hours,  reckoning  2  ounces 
salt  to  every  15  herrings.  Then  dry  them,  roll  them  in  flour, 
and  fry  in  browned  butter.  Place  in  a  stone  jar  with  a  few 
peppercorns  and  pour  over  them  boiled  vinegar  that  has  been 
allowed  to  cool. 


46  FISH. 

BROILED  FRESH  HERRING  WITH  MUSTARD 
SAUCE. 

Take  the  required  number  of  herring  with  soft  roes, 
cut  off  the  heads  and  clean,  but  do  not  open  them;  dip 
them  well  in  a  salad  oil,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
leave  them  for  an  hour.  Arrange  the  fish  on  a  gridiron  and 
let  them  stand  over  a  clear,  slow  fire  and  broil  for  fifteen 
minutes,  turning  until  they  are  done.  Mix  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour  and  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard  with  cold  water ; 
when  smooth  pour  in  one  breakfast  cupful  of  white  stock; 
turn  this  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick  and 
it  boils,  then  put  in  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  the 
herrings  on  a  hot  dish,  and  when  the  butter  is  dissolved 
pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve. 


Snell    Fisk 


BROILED  OYSTERS. 

1  pint  selected  oysters,  2/3  cup  seasoned  cracker 

%  cup  melted  butter.  crumbs. 

Clean  oysters  and  dry  between  towels.  Lift  with  fork 
by  the  tough  muscles  and  dip  in  butter,  then  in  cracker  crumbs 
which  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a 
buttered  wire  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  until  juices 
flow,  turning  while  broiling.  Serve  with  or  without  Maitre 
d'Hotel  butter. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

24  large  oysters,  ^  cup  bread  crumbs, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tgg, 

}i  teaspoon  pepper. 

Clean  and  drain  select  oysters.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  stand  fifteen  minutes  or 
more,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  again,  let  stand 
again  fifteen  minutes  or  more  in  a  cool  place,  and  fry  one 
minute  or  until  golden  brown  in  deep  hot  fat.  Drain  on  paper, 
serve  on  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley,  sliced  pickle  or 
lemon.    Serve  with  French  fried  potatoes. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

1  pint  oysters,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs, 

2  tablespoons  oyster  liquor,        ^  cup  melted  butter, 
2  tablespoons  milk  or  cream,     Salt, 

^2  cup  stale  bread  crumbs.        Pepper. 

Mix  bread  and  cracker  crumbs  and  stir  in  butter.  Put  a 
thin  layer  in  bottom  of  buttered,  shallow  baking  dish,  cover 
with  oysters  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  one-half 


48  SHELL  FISH. 


each  of  oyster  liquid  and  cream.  Repeat,  cover  top  with  re- 
maining crumbs.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Never 
allow  more  than  two  layers  for  scalloped  oysters;  if  three 
layers  are  used,  the  middle  layer  will  be  undone. 

FRICASSEED  OYSTERS. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Cayenne, 

1  tablespoon  salt,  1  pint  or  thirty-eight  oysters. 

}i  teaspoon  white  pepper, 

Place  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  oysters,  in  a  chafing 
dish  or  covered  saucepan.  When  hot  add  the  oysters,  cover 
and  shake  the  pan  occasi'onally.  When  the  oysters  are  plump 
drain  them  and  place  them  where  they  will  keep  hot.  Add 
enough  cream  to  the  liquid  to  make  one  cup. 

OYSTERS  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

A  quart  of  best  oysters,  half  a  can  of  mushrooms,  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  cracker  crumbs, 
a  cupful  of  milk,  one  beaten  egg.  Lay  a  stratum  of  oysters 
in  a  buttered  bake  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  mushrooms,  cover  with  milk,  dotted  with  but- 
ter. The  top  layer  should  be  moist  with  milk  in  which  an 
Qgg  has  been  beaten.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 
Bake,  covered,  thirty  minutes,  then  brown.  Pass  crackers 
and  lemon  with  it. 

OYSTER  MACARONI 

Break  enough  macaroni  into  inch  pieces  to  fill  a  pint  cup. 
Put  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Keep  at 
the  boiling  point  till  tender  (twenty  or  thirty  minutes). 
Have  ready  one  pint  of  oysters,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  half  cupful  of  cream.  Drain 
the  macaroni,  and  put  a  layer  ii  buttered  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  little  dots  of  butter 
and  a  little  cream,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  and  another  of 


SHELL  FISH.  '  49 


macaroni,  with  more  of  the  seasoning.  Sprinkle  cracker 
crumbs  over  the  top,  add  little  bits  of  butter  and  a  little 
cream  or  rich  milk,  if  necessary.  Put  cover  over  the  dish 
and  bake  till  done;  then  remove  cover  and  continue  baking 
till  a  delicate  brown. 

OYSTERS  BAKED  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

A  delicious  course  for  luncheon.  Over  good-sized  oysters 
pour  some  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  dish  in  a 
cool  place  while  preparing  the  pastry.  Roll  nice  puff  paste 
very  thin  and  cut  in  squares  with  a  pastry  wheel,  having  the 
pieces  at  least  four  inches  square.  Brush  over  with  the 
whole  of  an  egg.  Place  upon  each  square  two  or  three  oys- 
ters and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  over  them.  Bring  the 
four  corners  of  the  paste  together  and  fasten  with  tooth- 
picks, leaving  the  pastry  open  between  points.  Bake  brown 
in  a  biscuit  pan.    Remove  picks  before  serving. 

GRILLED  OYSTERS. 

Take  one  pint  large  oysters.  Put  a  large  piece  of  but- 
ter into  a  hot  pan  and  when  it  smokes,  drop  in  the  oysters, 
a  few  at  a  time.  When  the  oysters  are  browned,  remove  to 
a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  of  melted 
butter  thickened  with  flour.  Season  with  Worcestershire 
sauce,  salt  and  cayenne  and  serve  on  toast.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

CELERIED  OYSTERS. 

Take  one-half  pint  large  oysters.  Melt  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter  and  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  chopped  celery. 
Add  the  oysters  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Let 
'the  whole  simmer  3  minutes,  then  pour  in  a  wine  glassful 
of  sherry  and  allow  to  simmer  2  minutes  longer.  Serve  on 
toast. 


50  SHELL  FISH. 


SHERRIED  OYSTERS. 

Take  one  pint  oysters,  add  one-half  pint  of  water  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  boil  5  minutes.  Drain  and  put  in  sauce- 
pan and  pour  over  them  a  gill  of  sherry.  Season  with  salt 
and  cayenne  and  cook  3  minutes,  then  add  one  gill  of 
cream  and  let  them  cook  6  minutes  longer.  Mix  in  a  cup 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  brandy 
and  cream  and  pour  over  the  oysters.  Let  the  whole  sim- 
mer for  3  minutes,  stirring  gently.  Serve  on  toast  and  gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pint  oysters,  scald  in  one  cup  water 
and  drain.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  small  onion, 
chopped  fine,  into  a  saucepan  and  brown.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  gill  white  wine  and  one-half  the  oy- 
ster water,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  and  let  the  whole 
boil  15  minutes,  stirring  briskly;  then  add  the  oysters  and 
put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  mushrooms  and  half  a 
gill  of  sherry.  Let  it  simmer  5  minutes,  then  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  one  gill  of  cream.  Serve  hot  in  a  deep 
dish. 

PATE  A  LA  PRINCESSE. 

Boil  one  pint  oysters  3  minutes  in  one  cup  water,  add- 
ing one  gill  of  white  wine.  Drain  and  put  in  six  pate  shells 
lightly  spread  with  anchovy  paste.  In  a  saucepan,  mix 
one  tablespoonful  each  butter  and  flour,  one-half  gill  cream 
and  the  oyster  liquor.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Boil  8  minutes,  stirring  2  minutes.  Pour  this 
sauce  over  the  oysters  in  the  pate  shell,  sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over  the  top  and  bake  5  minutes. 


SHELL  FISH.  51 


OYSTERS  AU  GRATIN. 

Scald  in  one  cup  of  water  and  drain  one  pint  oysters.  In 
a  saucepan,  mix  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of 
flour  and  put  on  the  fire.  Pour  in  two  gills  each  milk  and 
oyster  water ;  stir  gently  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 
Cut  the  oysters  into  quarters  and  stir  in  gently,  allowing 
the  whole  to  boil  3  minutes,  then  put  in  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle 
plentifully  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  bake  12  min- 
utes in  quick  oven. 


OYSTERS  AND  SPAGHETTI  A  LA  BECHAMEL. 

Cook  two  cups  spaghetti  broken  in  inch  pieces  in  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover,  until  tender.  Drain  and  blanch.  But- 
ter small  ramekins  and  line  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of  spa- 
ghetti; then  a  layer  of  oysters  previously  plumped  in  their 
own  liquor;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  layer  of 
Bechamel  Sauce  (see  chapter  on  meat  and  fish  sauces).  Re- 
peat until  dish  is  filled.  There  should  be  two  layers  of  oys- 
ters and  a  layer  of  sauce  should  cover  top.  Sprinkle  over 
thickly  with  buttered  crumbs  and  place  in  hot  oven  until  mix- 
ture is  heated  throughout  and  crumbs  are  brown.  Time  re- 
quired will  depend  largely  on  size  of  baking  dish.  A  large 
dish  will  require  twenty  minutes;  smaller  ones  from  twelve 
to  fifteen  minutes. 


BROILED  LIVE  LOBSTER. 

Split  the  lobster  and  glaze  with  olive  oil,  broil  on  hot  fire, 
with  the  meat  side  to  the  fire.  When  well  broiled,  season 
with  salt,  cayenne  and  plenty  of  melted  butter,  or  place  in 
spider,  season,  place  in  oven  and  baste. 


52  SHELL  FISH. 


LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

1  large  lobster,  1  teaspoon  sweet  cream, 

1  dash  cayenne  pepper,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

%    cup    Sherry   or    Madeira     2  tablespoons  butter, 
wine,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Remove  boiled  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  cut  in  inch 
pieces.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper;  melt  butter,  add  lob- 
ster, allow  to  simmer  5  minutes,  then  add  wine  and  sugar. 
Allow  this  to  cook  3  minutes.  In  the  meanwhile  beat  yolks  of 
eggs  light  with  cream,  add  to  mixture  and  cook  until  thick- 
ened, stirring  constantly.     Serve  hot  on  toast. 

LOBSTER  AND  MUSHROOM  FRICASSEE. 

Cook  one  cup  mushrooms,  cleaned  and  broken  in  pieces, 
in  one-fourth  cup  butter,  with  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  three 
minutes.  Add  one- fourth  cup  flour,  mixed  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  one-half 
cup  lobster  meat  cut  in  dice  in  the  sauce.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine. 

LOBSTER  BALLS. 

One  hen  lobster,  two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs, two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
salt,  pepper  and  cayenne. 

Take  out  the  meat  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  the  coral 
and  spawn.  Mix  with  it  not  quite  an  equal  quantity  of 
breadcrumbs  and  the  seasoning.  Bind  the  whole  with  the 
butter,  which  has  been  warmed  almost  to  melting.  Roll  the 
mixture  into  little  balls  a  little  less  than  the  size  of  a  hen's 
^gg  Brush  them  over  with  beaten  ^gg.  Cover  them  with 
breadcrumbs  and  fry  them  lightly.  Drain  the  grease  from 
them  and  serve  very  hot  on  a  napkin. 


SHELL  FISH.  53 


LOBSTER  FARCIE. 

Lobster  Farcie  in  Scallop  Shells. — One-half  pint  of  lobs- 
'  ter  meat  and  four  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  and  add  to 
a  cream  sauce  made  as  follows:  Melt  three  large  table- 
spoonfuls  butter  and  rub  into  it  three  large  teaspoonfuls 
flour,  gradually  add  one  cup  warm  milk  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  with  two  or  three  dashes  of  cayenne.  Cook  up  once 
and  then  add  four  tablespoons  minced  parsley.  Butter 
scallop  shells,  fill  with  farcie  ^nd  sprinkle  on  top  of  each 
shell  one  teaspoon  buttered  breadcrumbs.  Place  in  warm 
oven  to  brown.  This  amount  makes  eight  shells.  Shrimps 
crabmeat,  and  salmon  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner,  mak- 
ing a  delicious  dainty  for  a  Sunday  night  supper  or  a  lunch- 
eon, as  it  may  be  prepared  hours  before  needed  and  then 
warmed  in  oven  before  serving. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  BORDELAISE. 

1^  lbs.  lobster,  cut  in  pieces,      1  small  onion,  chopped  fine, 
1       cup  white  sauce,  1  small  piece  carrot, 

%  cup  red  wine,  Salt,  cayenne  pepper. 

Cook  the  onion  and  the  carrot  chopped  fine  in  the  cup  of 
milk,  used  in  making  the  white  sauce,  add  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients, the  red  wine  last.     Serve  hot. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  THACKERAY. 

Meat  of  2  lobsters,  inch  pieces,     3  dashes  cayenne  pepper, 
^  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  walnut  catsup, 

%  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  paprika. 

Put  into  the  saucepan  (or  chafing  dish)  the  green  part  of 
the  lobster,  and  add  butter,  salt,  cayenne,  walnut  catsup  and 
paprika.  Cook  this  five  minutes,  then  add  the  meat  of  two 
lobsters  cut  into  one-inch  pieces. 


54  SHELL  FISH. 


LOBSTER  a  la  BURNHAM. 

This  dish  is  always  appreciated  at  picnics,  and  makes  a 
nice  change  for  Sunday  supper. 

Required:  One  lobster,  half  a  pint  of  mayonnaise  sauce, 
six  ounces  of  rice,  a  small  beet. 

Wash  the  rice.  Boil  it  in  plenty  of  fast  boiling,  salted 
water  until  it  is  just  tender,  then  pour  it  into  a  colander, 
wash  it  well  under  the  cold  water  tap,  then  dry  it  carefully, 
either  spread  on  a  plate  in  a  cool  oven  or  on  the  hot  plate. 

Supposing  it  is  for  supper,  it  is  quite  easy  to  arrange  it 
prettily,  with  the  lobster  in  the  center,  the  rice  round  as  a 
border,  and  the  beet  root  as  a  garnish. 

In  any  case,  remove  all  meat  from  the  lobster,  and  cut  it 
into  large  dice.  Then  if  it  is  for  a  picnic  wrap  it  up  in  a  piece 
of  waxed  paper,  which  can  be  bought  at  any  stationer's — this 
will  prevent  it  from  drying.  Then  put  it  in  a  tin  or  jar. 
Press  the  rice  into  another  jar,  and  tie  a  piece  of  paper  over 
the  top.  Peel  and  slice  the  beet  and  fold  that  also  in  waxed 
paper.     Put  the  sauce  into  a  bottle  with  a  tightly-fitting  cork. 

These  jars,  etc.,  can  be  safely  packed  into  the  hamper. 
When  required,  divide  the  lobster  into  portions,  arrange  them 
in  neat  heaps  on  "woodpulp"  plates,  arrange  a  thick  border  of 
rice  around,  garnish  with  the  beet  and  serve  the  sauce  with  it. 

LOBSTER  CHOPS. 

2  large  lobsters,  boiled  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsely, 

Yz  teaspoon  grated  onion,  1  cup  thick  white  sauce. 

Chop  the  lobster  meat,  make  a  thick  white  sauce.  Add 
the  boiled  lobster  meat,  then  the  onion  and  parsley.  Cook 
thoroughly,  add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Remove 
from  stove.  Divide  in  heaps,  about  ten,  on  a  piece  of  clean 
paper,  and  cool  thoroughly.  Form  into  chop  shape,  and  roll 
in  ^gg  and  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  hot  fat. 
Serve  with  a  claw  in  each,  to  represent  the  bone.  Serve  very 
hot,  with  Tartare  sauce. 


SHELL  FISH.  55 


SAUTE   ROYALE. 

2  dozen  small  oysters.  1  small  lobster. 

1  small  can  mushrooms.  1  cup  crab  meat. 

1  cup  shrimps. 

Into  a  sauce  pan  put  one-half  cup  of  butter,  melt  and 
add  large  one-half  cup  flour,  one  cup  of  cream,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  a  large  pony  of  sherry  and  one  of  white 
wine.  The  following  sauce  made  from:  One-half  can  to- 
matoes, one  large  green  pepper,  one  large  onion  and  one 
large  clove  of  garlic  all  cooked  well  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  When  done  strain  and  add  to  above.  Add  then  the 
shrimps,  crab  meat,  lobster,  mushrooms  and  lastly  the  oys- 
ters, allowing  all  to  heat  until  the  oysters  are  well  curled 
at  the  edges.  Serve  in  border  of  rice,  on  toast,  in  patty 
shells  or  in  ramikins  with  croutons. 

Can  be  made  either  of  lobster,  or  crab  meat,  or  oysters 
only,  or  even  with  hard  boiled  eggs  with  mushrooms. 

CRAB  CROQUETTES. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish.  Crab  meat  can  now  be  found 
in  the  fish  market  at  almost  any  season,  or  canned  crabs  may 
be  used.  Put  into  a  mixing  bowl  a  quart  of  crab  meat,  add 
a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  three 
tablespoon fuls  of  salad  dressing,  and  with  the  hands  mix 
well  and  roll  into  balls,  cakes  or  cork  shapes;  dip  these  into 
slightly  thinned  salad  dressing,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  dip 
again  in  the  dressing,  roll  again  in  the  crumbs  and  fry  in  a 
liberal  quantity  of  very  hot  lard. 

CRAB  MEAT  CHOPS. 

2  cup  fuls    crab    meat,    boiled       1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 

and  picked,  ^  teaspoon  chopped  onion, 

1  cup  thick  white  sauce,  Yi  teaspoon  salt, 

Cayenne  pepper. 


56  SHELL  FISH. 


Make  thick  white  sauce,  mix  with  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients. 

Cook  all  together  and  cool.  Make  8  separate  heaps  of 
this  and  let  stand  an  hour.  Take  each  heap  and  form  into  a 
chop  shape,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  dredge  in  cracker  dust  and  fry 
in  hot,  deep  fat.  Serve  with  hot  Tartare  sauce,  or  Hol- 
landaise  sauce. 

DEVILED  CRABS. 

Put  one-half  pound  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  cook  together,  stirring  it  con- 
tinually to  prevent  its  burning ;  add  to  it  one  large  tumbler- 
ful of  rich  cream,  one  boiled  soft  onion  mashed  to  a  paste 
or  pulp,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  season  with  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper.  Then  put  in  the  crab  meat,  enough  to 
fill  eight  crab  shells  and  raw  egg  or  two,  stir  together 
well  and  cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  which  will  only 
take  a  few  minutes ;  then  pour  it  all  on  a  flat  dish  and  allow 
it  to  stand  until  cold.  Now  fill  the  back  crab  shells  with 
the  mixture,  egg  them  over  with  a  brush  and  cover  with 
grated  breadcrumbs  or  cracker  dust.  Place  them  in  a  bak- 
ingpan,  put  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  top  .of  each,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  to  a  light  brown  color,  or  fry  them  in 
plenty  of  hot  lard. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 
Place  some  fresh  clams  into  one  pan,  and  the  liquor  from 
them  into  another.  Prepare  a  mixture  of  broken  crackers 
and  flour  in  equal  quantities,  and  dip  the  clams  first  into 
their  own  liquor  and  then  into  this,  repeating  this  opera- 
tion three  times;  finally  dipping  them  into  milk,  and  then 
again  into  the  flour  mixture.  Have  prepared  some  boil- 
ing lard,  drop  in  a  few  clams  at  a  time,  let  them  fry  for 
about  five  minutes,  then  remove  them  with  a  skimmer, 
place  them  on  a  strainer,  drain  away  the  fat,  and  they  are 


SHELL  FISH.  57 


ready  to  be  served.     The  pan  containing  the  lard  should 
be  so  deep  that  the  clams  will  be  covered  when  put  in. 

SHRIMP  A  LA  CREOLE  IN  CASSEROLE. 

1  qt.  shrimps  (boiled),  1  onion, 

Yz  can  mushrooms,  3  cloves, 

Yz  can  French  peas,  1  bay  leaf, 

y^  can  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  catsup, 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Stew  all  the  above  ingredients  together,  but  the  shrimp, 
one  hour  in  a  casserole,  add  the  boiled  shrimp,  cut  into  dice. 
Serve  very  hot. 

FROG  LEGS  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Yz  cup  Madeira, 

Salt  and  cayenne  peppet. 
Boil  three  minutes.     Add  one-half  pint  cream  and  three 
yolks,  slightly  beaten.     Cook  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
and  pour  over  the  frog  legs. 

Note — Frog  legs  are  nice  dipped  in  0,%%  and  cracker  crumbs 
and  fried  a  golden  brown  in  hot  fat. 


Meats 


PAN  BROILED  STEAK. 

Pan  broiling  of  a  stake  means  to  broil  in  a  hot  pan  in 
place  of  over  the  coals.  It  should  not  be  confused  with 
frying,  sauteing,  or  any  such  method.  The  hot  pan  should 
be  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  fat  just  as  the  broiler  is  greased 
to  keep  the  steak  from  sticking,  and  the  steak  broiled  in  it 
precisely  as  described  for  broiling  over  the  coals.  The  pan 
should  be  very  hot  at  first,  the  steak  seared  on  both  sides, 
then  allowed  to  cook  more  slowly,  but  turned  every  ten 
counts  as  carefully  as  if  over  the  coals.  In  lifting  to  turn 
it  put  the  fork  in  the  extreme  end  of  the  steak,  if  a  fork 
must  be  used.  Any  fat  that  runs  out  of  the  steak  in  cook- 
ing should  be  poured  off  in  order  to  prevent  the  fried  look 
or  taste  that  will  result  if  the  meat  is  sauted  in  its  own  fat. 

SPANISH  STEAK. 
Take  three  pounds  of  round  steak,  cut  two  and  one-half 
inches  thick,  season  with  one  level  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a 
saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Place 
in  the  oven  in  a  sheet  iron  baking  pan  with  half  a  cup  of 
water,  and  cook  thirty  minutes,  then  cover  with  a  layer  of 
sliced  raw  onions  and  cook  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  add  a 
layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  cook  until  tender,  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese,  and  when  brown  serve  with  a  gravy  made 
from  the  liquor  in  the  pan. 

DANISH  BEEF. 
Take  one  pound  of  chopped  round  steak.  Make  little 
pates  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown  in  a  chunk  of  butter.  Then 
salt  and  pepper — not  until  then.  Removes  pates  from  frying 
pan — put  three  good  sized  onions  sliced  and  add  a  cup  and 
one-half  of  water.  Let  simmer  five  minutes.  Then  thicken 
with  flour  and  pour  over  pates. 


MEATS.  59 


I  FRIZZLED  BEEF  TETRAZZINL 

Shave  into  thin  slices  the  best  smoked  beef  you  can  get. 
Over  these  pour  boiHng  water.  Leave  the  water  on  the  beef 
not  longer  than  a  second.  Place  it  in  a  collander,  thoroughly 
draining  off  the  water.  Be  careful  to  make  this  draining 
process  thorough,  for  it  takes  away  the  salt  taste  of  the  beef. 
Then  place  the  beef  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  has  been  melted 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  half  cupful  of  cream  into 
which  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  has  been  stirred.  Stir 
these  well  with  the  meat.  Pour  in  last  a  cupful  of  sweet 
milk  and  season  sharply  with  pepper.  Just  before  milk  comes 
to  a  boil  drop  in  two  tablespoonsful  of  sharp  grated  cheese. 
Take  off  as  soon  as  milk  boils. 

BEEF'S  TONGUE,  A  LA  JARDINIERE. 

Boil  fresh  beef's  tongue  one  hour;  skin  and  lay  in  your 
roaster  upon  a  layer  of  vegetables  cut  into  dice — carrots,  tur- 
nips and  celery,  potatoes,  peas,  beans,  and  if  you  can  get 
them,  button  onions  and  small  round  tomatoes.  Pour  about 
the  tongue  some  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled ;  cover 
and  cook  slowly  for  two  hours  if  the  tongue  be  large. 

Remove  the  tongue,  keep  it  closely  covered  and  hot  while 
you  take  out  the  vegetables  with  a  skimmer.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  browned  flour.  Dish  the  tongue,  arrange  the  veg- 
etables in  sorted  heaps  about  it,  and  pour  some  of  the  gravy 
over  all,  sending  rest  to  table  in  sauceboat. 

MOCK  BIRDS  OR  BEEF  ROLLS. 

1  lb.  round  steak,  or  1  teaspoon  onion,  chopped, 

Veal  steak,  ^  inch  thick,  1  tablespoon  pickle,  chopped,    ' 

1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoon  fat  drippings, 

l^  teaspoon  prepared  mustard,  1  pint  boiling  water, 
1  tablespoon  chopped  fat  1  bay  leaf, 

bacon, 


60  MEATS. 


Cut  1  pound  steak  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick  in  four 
pieces.  Flatten  each  piece,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
spread  with  bacon,  mustard,  onion  and  a  speck  of  paprika. 
Roll  each. 

BEEF  EN  CASSEROLE. 

2y2  lbs  beef,  chuck  or  round,     1  small  onion,  sliced, 
2  tablespoons  beef  drippings.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
1  small  carrot,  cut  in  dice,       1    cup  strained  tomatoes, 
1  tablespoon  flour,  1  bay  leaf. 

Salt  and  pepper  the  meat  and  dust  with  the  flour.  Heat 
the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  the  meat  in  it  on  all  sides. 
Place  meat  in  casserole,  add  other  ingredients,  cover  and  let 
simmer  at  a  low  temperature  until  tender,  keeping  the  cas- 
serole well  covered  so  as  not  to  allow  the  steam  and  juices 
to  escape.     Serve  hot  with  mashed  or  baked  potatoes. 

BEEFSTEAK  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Broil  a  sirloin  or  tenderloin  steak;  season;  take  a  quart 
of  oysters  and  drain  off  the  liquor;  put  into  stewpan  with 
half  a  cupful  of  butter — less  butter  if  you  have  a  little 
cream  to  add.  Salt  and  pepper  to  season  it.  When  this 
comes  to  a  boil  pour  over  the  steak  on  the  platter.  Serve 
very  hot. 

ROAST  LAMB. 

Salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour,  place  on  rake  of 
dripping  pan  with  1  cup  water  in  hot  oven.  When  brown 
baste  every  15  minutes.  It  will  take  about  2  hours  to  roast 
a  medium  sized  roast. 

Leg  of  lamb  may  be  boned  and  stuffed  with  bread  dressing. 
Serve  with  mint  sauce,  or  mint  sherbet. 

CROWN  OF  LAMB. 

Select  parts  from  two  loins  containing  ribs,  scrape  flesh 
from  bone  between  ribs,  as  far  as  lean  meat  and  trim  off  back- 


MEA'lS.  61 


bone.  Shape  each  piece  in  a  semicircle,  having  ribs  outside 
and  sew  pieces  together  to  form  a  crown.  Trim  ends  of 
bones  evenly  and  rather  short  and  wrap  each  bone  in  a  thin 
strip  of  the  fat  scraps  to  prevent  bone  from  burning.  Roast 
lj4  hours  or  until  tender,  covering  bones  with  buttered  paper. 
Remove  fat  from  bones  before  serving  and  fill  center  with 
peas,  puree  of  chestnut,  or  mashed  potatoes. 

MUTTON  STEW  WITH  RICE. 

After  the  mutton  has  been  cut  in  pieces  and  cooked,  add 
four  good  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onion,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  let  it  cook  at  a  slow  fire  ten  or  twelve  min- 
utes. 

Then  add  a  dozen  small  carrots,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
thyme,  bay  leaves  and  a  mite  of  garlic.  Moisten  with  a 
quart  of  water,  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  genrtly  for  an 
hour. 

MUTTON  CURRY. 

Fry  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion  in  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter. Mix  one  tablespoon  curry  powder  and  one  teaspoon 
salt  with  one  tablespoon  flour.  Stir  this  into  the  butter  and 
onion  and  add,  gradually,  one  pint  hot  water  or  stock.  Cut 
two  pounds  cold  lean  mutton  (roasted  or  boiled)  in  pieces 
and  add  to  the  sauce.  Simmer  until  tender  and  serve  with 
a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

FRENCH  MUTTON  STEW. 

Having  cut  the  mutton  in  pieces  cook  it  in  a  saucepan 
at  a  sharp  fire  with  clarified  fat  or  lard.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

When  the  pieces  of  mutton  are  well  browned,  drain  out 
nearly  all  the  fat.  Add  two  large  soupspoonfuls  of  flour. 
Cook  for  several  minutes  and  moisten  with  a  full  quart 
of  water.  Add  two  skinned  tomatoes,  or  two  spoonfuls  of 
tomato  puree,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a 
tiny  piece  of  garlic. 


62  '  MEATS. 

MUTTON  STEW  WITH  WHITE  BEANS. 

The  beans  must  be  cooked  separately  and  in  advance. 
Cut  the  mutton  in  pieces  and  cook  till  brown,  as  in  the  pre- 
ceding method.  Then  add  several  large  onions  divided 
into  four,  two  carrots  cut  in  pieces  and  two  soup-spoon- 
fuls of  flour.  Let  this  cook  several  minutes  and  moisten 
with  a  quart  of  water. 

Add  salt  and  pepper  as  desired,  two  or  three  good  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  tomato  puree,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme,  a 
bay  leaf,  and  a  mite  of  garlic.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  let 
it  cook  gently  for  about  an  hour.  Change  the  pieces  of 
mutton  to  another  saucepan,  skim  the  sauce  in  the  first 
saucepan,  strain  it  over  the  mutton  through  a  fine  strainer. 
Add  the  white  beans,  already  cooked,  and  let  it  simmer 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  Skim  the  ragout  again  be- 
fore serving. 

In  hot  countries  mutton  often  holds  the  taste  of  the 
wool.  In  such  cases  it  is  useful  to  boil  it  for  a  few  min- 
utes in  salted  water  before  cooking. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  mutton,  place  the  pieces  in  a 
saucepan  of  convenient  size.  The  best  meat  for  this  pur- 
pose is  from  the  breast,  the  neck  or  the  shoulder.  Cut  in 
pieces  of  three  to  four  ounces. 

Add  a  large  glass  of  water,  then  put  the  saucepan  on 
the  fire,  cover  it  and  let  the  water  evaporate  completely. 
Add  another  glass  of  water,  allow  it  to  evaporate  and  then 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Next  add  four  large  onions  di- 
vided into  quarters,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme  and  bay. 

Moisten  with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  meat 
completely.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  let  it  boil  for  twen- 
ty-five to  thirty  minutes.  Then  add  to  the  mutton  tv/o 
pounds  of  potatoes  skinned  and  divided  in  four.     Cover 


MEATS.  63 


them  with  hot  water.  Season  them  again  if  you  like  it 
highly  seasoned.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  finish  cooking. 
Remove  the  bunch  of  herbs  before  serving. 

This  dish  is  also  excellent,  if  sliced  carrots  and  tur- 
nips are  added.  In  this  case  you  must  also  slice  up  the  po- 
tatoes. Be  careful  to  put  the  carrots  and  turnips  to  cook 
fifteen  minutes  before  the  potatoes.  Potatoes  cooked  to 
pieces  spoil  the  stew. 

In  this  method  no  flour  thickening  should  be  used. 

SAUERBRATEN. 

For  six  people.  Take  4  pounds  of  rump,  chuck  or  sir- 
loin, pound  it,  put  into  2  quarts  vinegar  with  1  onion  cut 
into  slices,  10  pepper-corns,  3  bay  leaves,  3  cloves  and  salt. 
Leave  there  for  4  days.  Turn  over  once  in  a  while.  After 
this  time,  take  out  and  lard  with  bacon  cut  into  pieces  1-3 
inch  thick  and  2J^  inches  long.  Pierce  meat  with  a  pointed 
knife  and  insert  the  bacon.  Heat  the  lard  and  fry  meat 
light  brown,  both  sides,  and  place  on  a  platter.  Brown 
the  flour  in  the  lard  and  pour  on  the  vinegar  with  spices, 
water  and  salt.  Put  in  piece  of  honeycake  (PfefTer 
Kuchen)  if  on  hand,  and  J^  tablespoonful  sugar,  boil  all 
and  put  the  roasted  meat  into  this  gravy.  The  meatroast 
must  be  covered  and  baked  in  over  2J/2  to  3  hours  while 
turning  it,  basting  with  gravy.  One-half  hour  before  done, 
pour  in  J^^  glass  red  wine.  When  the  roast  is  tender,  finish 
the  gravy.  Put  the  roast  on  platter,  take  all  grease  off  the 
gravy  and  strain.  If  too  thick,  add  water;  if  not  sour 
enough,  add  vinegar. 

BRISKET  OF  CORNED  BEEF  WITH  VEGETABLES. 

A  piece  of  fancy  brisket  of  corned  or  saltpetered  beef, 
say  five  or  six  pounds,  should  be  cooked  in  plenty  of  water 
until  tender,  with  two  carrots,  two  onions,  one-half  a  head 
of  cabbage,  two  turnips  and  two  stalks  of  celery.    Dish  up 


64  MEATS. 


the  beef  on  a  platter,  cut  the  vegetables  coarsely,  and  put 
around  the  beef.    Serve  horseradish  with  it. 

BEEF  HASH,  ENGLISH  STYLE. 

Cut  in  small  dice  one  pound  of  roast  beef,  free  from 
gristle,  but  mixed  with  a  small  quantity  of  the  fat  part.  Fry 
one  finely  chopped  onion  in  butter  to  a  slight  brown  color, 
then  add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  and  fry  together 
for  two  minutes.  Then  add  a  cup  of  light  gravy  or  rich 
soup  stock,  and  stir  well  to  obtain  a  sauce;  add  the  beef 
and  a  tablespoon  of  ketchup  and  a  dash  of  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Put  this  hash  in  a  deep  metal  or  fireproof  china 
dish,  cover  it  with  mashed  potatoes,  to  which  the  yolk  of 
two  eggs  have  been  added,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and 
melted  butter,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  the  oven  so  that 
the  potatoes  will  be  well  browned. 

MUTTON  HASH. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  cubes.  Also  cut  into  pieces  of 
the  same  shape  the  same  weight  of  potatoes  as  of  meat. 
Season  the  potatoes  and  toss  them  in  butter.  This  done, 
put  half  their  quantity  into  a  saucepan  with  the  meat,  and 
cover  the  whole  with  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce 
and  some  reduced  meat  gravy;  heat  without  allowing  to 
boil.  Distribute  the  remainder  of  the  potatoes,  which  should 
be  crisply  fried,  over  the  hash,  and  sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of 
freshly  chopped  parsley.  In  hash  the  meat  must  never  be 
allowed  to  boil  or  it  will  become  hard. 

ROAST  VEAL  BREAST,  STUFFED. 

Select  a  piece  of  veal  breast  and  have  the  butcher  make  an 
opening  on  the  underside  and  stuff  with  bread  dressing  or 
potato  stuffing.  Sew  up  ends,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  ginger 
and  flour;  place  in  hot  oven,  in  roasting  pan,  with  two  table- 
spoons beef  or  poultry  fat,  an  onion  cut  fine  and  a  little  boil- 
ing water.     Turn  and  baste  roast  often  until  brown  and  ten- 


MEATS.  65 


der.     A  little  allspice  and  bay  leaf  may  be  added  for  season- 
ing.    Lamb  breast  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

TERRAPIN  VEAL. 

Two  pounds  of  veal  cut  into  small  pieces,  two  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter  and  half  a, tablespoon  of  grated  onion.  Cook 
slowly  five  minutes,  then  add  the  meat  and  cook  until  it 
browns,  stirring  often.  Thicken  with  one  heaping  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  add  slowly  a  cup  of  hot  stock,  one  tablespoon 
of  mushroom  catchup,  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon 
of  pepper;  simmer  two  hours.  Then  add  one  cup  of  cream, 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine  and  a  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice.     Serve  hot. 

PAPRIKA  SCHNITZEL  WITH  NOODLES. 

For  six  people.  Use  6  veal  steaks,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  then  fry  in  butter  for  5  minutes. 
Cut  up  one  small  onion,  a  small  piece  of  garlic  and  smother 
for  a  few  minutes.  Add  a  tablespoonful  each  of  paprica 
and  flour.  Mix  well  with  1^^  cups  of  sour  cream,  3^  cup 
bouillon,  then  stir  and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Strain  the 
sauce  over  the  veal  steaks  and  allow  them  to  simmer  for 
10  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with 
noodles. 

VEAL  CHEESE. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  boiled  sliced  veal  and  smoked 
tongue.  Pound  the  slices  separately  in  a  mortar,  moistening 
with  butter  as  you  proceed,  then  pack  it  in  a  jar  or  pail, 
mixing  it  in  alternating  layers,  first  the  tongue  and  then  the 
veal,  so  that  when  it  is  cut  it  will  look  variegated.  Press 
it  down  hard  and  pour  melted  butter  over  the  top.  Keep  it 
well  covered  and  in  a  dry  place.  Nice  for  sandwiches  or 
sliced  cold  for  lunch. 


66  MEATS. 


BAKED  HAM  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Take  a  choice  cut  of  ham  weighing  about  two  and  one- 
half  pounds  and  parboil  for  one-half  hour  in  cold  water  into 
which  has  been  added  one  tablespoonful  sugar  and  three 
whole  cloves.  Take  from  water  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter 
and  put  in  hot  oven  to  brown  for  about  a  half  an  hour.  Rub 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  two  tablespoon fuls  of  melted 
butter,  gradually  add  one  cupful  of  warm  milk  and  all  the 
ham  gravy  in  baking  pan.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one 
can  drained  mushrooms,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  Arrange  on  platter  and  garnish  with 
curled  celery.     Pour  over  mushroom  sauce. 

HAM  IN  BURGUNDY. 

For  12  persons.    Time  of  preparation :    Five  hours. 
1  smoked  ham  weighing  9  lbs.     1  tablespoonful  currant  jelly, 
1  lb.  small  onions,  2  teaspoon  fuls  beef  extract, 

1  oz.  sugar,  •  1^  pint  brown  sauce, 

1  tablespoonful  Madeira,  3  oz.  butter, 

lj4  pint  Burgundy,  A  drop  or  two  of  lemon  juice. 

A  pinch  of  pepper. 

Bone  the  ham  and  string  it  together.  Boil  slowly  for  from 
4  to  5  hours. 

Meanwhile  scald  the  onions  six  times.  Brown  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  half  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  ham  has 
been  boiled,  a  drop  or  two  of  lemon  juice  and  a  teaspoon ful 
of  meat  extract,  and  stew  the  onions  in  it  till  brown,  the 
sauce  being  just  sufficient  to  cover  them. 

When  the  ham  is  done,  remove  the  thick  skin  and  lay  the 
ham  in  a  baking-pan.  Pour  over  it  some  of  the  brown  sauce 
(in  making  of  which,  water  in  which  the  ham  has  been  boiled 
and  the  meat  extract  are  employed)  and  some  of  the  wine 
and  place  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Add  the  remaining  sauce  and 
wine  gradually  and  baste  the  ham  with  it  frequently  so  that 
it  receives  a  brown  glazing.     Finally,   stir  the  red  currant 


MEATS.  67 


jelly  into  the  sauce  in  which  the  onions  were  stewed,  flavor 
with  cayenne  and  add  to  the  Burgundy  sauce. 

Place  the  ham  on  a  dish,  cut  into  slices  and  arrange  round 
it  different  vegetables  and  chesnuts,  macaroni,  Sauerkohl  and 
the  little  stewed  onions. 

HAM  A  LA  TOURAINE. 

Parboil  the  slice  of  ham,  pour  off  the  water,  take  a  chunk 
of  butter  in  frying  pan,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  ham  and 
cut  up  one  onion  and  fry  with  ham  until  onion  is  golden 
brown.  Take  out  the  ham  and  add  one  cup  of  cream  to  onion 
and  let  simmer  and  pour  over  the  ham. 

SPANISH  HAM. 

After  boiling  the  whole  ham,  place  it  in  the  oven  and  cover 
with  a  soft  dough  or  dredge  freely  with  flour;  then  stick 
cloves  at  intervals  over  the  ham,  and  pour  into  the  roasting 
pan  about  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  or  less,  if  the  ham  is 
not  a  large  one.  Add  quarter  of  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  and  baste  the  ham  frequently  with 
this  liquid  while  it  is  cooking.  It  will  be  found  to  be  de- 
licious in  flavor  and  the  remaining  gravy  is  good  to  use  with 
it.     A  great  improvement  over  the  plain  boiled  ham. 

HAM,  SOUTHERN  STYLE. 

Boil  ham  until  tender,  using  two  waters,  skin  and  place 
in  baking  pan.  Then  stick  in  th'C  fat  two  dozen  whole 
cloves  and  sprinkle  with  brown  sugar.     Bake  an  hour. 

HAM  CASSEROLE. 

Cut  slice  of  ham  one  inch  or  one  and  a  half  inches  thick; 
soak  in  milk  for  one  hour,  put  in  casserole,  and  pour  milk 
over;  bake  slowly  in  oven,  covered,  for  one  hour,  trimming 
off  fat;  twenty  minutes  before  done  put  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  jelly  over  ham;  add  more  milk  to  make  gravy,  leaving 
cover  off,  and  let  brown  slowly;  thicken  with  flour,  .g^arn- 
ish  with  candied  sweet  potatoes. 


68  MEATS 

HAM  FRITTERS. 

Heat  to  boiling  point  one  cupful  of  stock.  Thicken  with 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter  cooked  together,  and 
add  to  it  one  cupful  of  cold  cooked  chopped  ham,  one  egg 
well  beaten,  and  dry  mustard  and  Worcestershire  sauce  to 
season.  Heat  thoroughly,  take  from  fire  and  cool.  Make 
a  fritter  batter  of  one  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter,  a  scant  cupful  of  hot  water,  then 
beaten  white  of  an  egg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Shape  the  ham 
mixture  into  small  balls,  dip  in  fritter  batter  and  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

SWEETBREADS  WITH  MUSHROOMS  AND  MAR- 

ROW. 

Trim  one  pound  of  heart  sweetbreads  and  boil  them  in 
salted  water  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  small  carrot  and 
a  little  onion.  Clean  fresh  mushrooms  and  remove  the 
stems;  then  chop  the  stems  with  a  little  fresh  parsley  and 
onion  and  fry  them  in  butter;  when  nicely  cooked,  add  a 
few  drops  of  Tobasco  Sauce,  about  a  cup  of  chicken  broth 
and  enough  flour  to  make  the  sauce  creamy.  Have  a  mar- 
row-bone parboiled  so  that  the  marrow  can  be  removed 
with  ease.  Now  split  the  sweetbreads  through  the  center, 
lay  the  pieces  on  the  broiler  and  let  them  cook  until  they 
are  a  light  brown.  Boil  the  mushrooms  separately.  Lay 
the  sweetbreads  on  a  hot  platter,  place  a  mushroom  on  the 
top  of  each  piece,  then  a  slice  of  marrow;  pour  the  sauce 
over  all  and  serve  very  hot. 

SWEETBREAD   TIMBALES. 

1}^  lbs.  sweetbreads,  ^  teaspoon  grated  onion, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  pinch  white  pepper, 

}i  loaf  stale  wheat  bread,         3  eggs, 
6  mushrooms,  6  truffles. 

Parboil  sweetbreads,  and  chop,  add  grated  onion,  salt  and 
pepper.     Soak  bread  in  cold  water,  squeeze  dry  and  mash 


MEATS.  69 


through  colander.  Mix  sweetbreads,  bread,  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  mushrooms,  then  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  But- 
ter small  timbale  forms,  put  in  a  few  pieces  of  truffles,  cover 
with  the  sweetbread  mixture,  place  forms  in  pan  of  boiling 
water.  Cover  with  another  pan  and  bake  from  one-half  to 
three-quarter  hours.  Serve  with  cream  sauce.  Truffles  and 
mushrooms  may  be  omitted. 

SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES. 

V/i  lb.  lean  beef,  mutton   or  1  dessertspoonful  chopped 

veal.  onion. 

3      oz.  fat,  A  little  grated  nutmeg, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Pass  the  meat  twice  through  the  mincing  machine  and 
thoroughly  mix  in  the  other  ingredients.  Divide  into  portions 
and  press  into  the  shape  of  cutlets.  Insert  a  little  piece  of 
macaroni  at  the  thin  end  of  each  to  look  like  a  bone.  Brush 
over  with  tgg  and. sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs.  Fry  in  hot 
fat  till  a  nice  brown.  Place  in  a  circle  on  a  hot  dish,  with  a 
garnish  of  vegetables  in  the  center. 

PRUSSIAN  CUTLETS. 

^  lb.  sweetbread,  6  oz.  calves'  tongue  or  cold 

1  leaf  of  gelatine,  roast  veal. 

1  oz.  butter,  1  gill  broth, 

1  oz.  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice, 
8  bottled  mushrooms,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 

2  teaspoonfuls  Madeira,  Salt. 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  and  tongue  and  cut  into  small  dice 
with  the  mushrooms.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  broth,  but- 
ter and  flour,  boil  it  down  to  half  its  original  quantity  and 
flavor  with  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  and 
add  to  the  sauce,  with  the  Madeira  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Then 
add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  to  a  paste.  Spread  over  a 
dish  on  which  breadcrumbs  have  been  scattered  and  put  a 


70  MEATS. 


layer  of  breadcrumbs  on  the  top.     Stand  in  a  cool  place  for  an 
hour. 

Make  up  into  twelve  croquettes,  roll  in  flour,  egg  and 
breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  or  dripping.  Wash  some  par- 
sley, dry  it  with  a  cloth,  fry  for  half  a  minute  and  garnish 
with  it. 

Serve  the  croquettes  in  a  serviette. 

HUNGARIAN  GULASH. 

1  lb.  lean  beef,  1  large  onion,  diced, 

1  lb.  lean  veal,  1  teaspoon  paprika, 

1  tablespoon  fat,  1  cup  strained  toamtoes. 

Veal  and  beef  mixed.  Cut  into  one-inch  squares  and 
brown  in  hot  fat  with  the  onion,  salt  and  paprika.  When  the 
meat  is  brown,  add  the  tomatoes,  and  one-half  hour  before 
serving,  add  some  small  potatoes.  Let  cook  slowly  closely 
covered. 

SAVORY  PIE. 

Chop  together  a  pound  of  cold  fried  steak.  Some  cooked 
potatoes,  a  cold  boiled  onion  and  moisten  with  some  left- 
over brown  gravy.  Put  in  a  deep  baking  dish,  covering  the 
top  and  sides  with  a  pie  crust  made  of  one  breakfast  cup 
of  flour  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter,  wet  to  a  soft 
dough  with  cold  water.     Bake  and  serve  hot. 

SHEPHERD'S  PIE. 

Cut  up  enough  cold  roast  beef  to  make  a  quart  of  small, 
thin  slices.  Season  the  meat  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  af- 
ter putting  it  into  a  deep  earthen  dish  pour  over  it  a  sauce 
made  as  follows:  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into 
a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  has  become  hot  add  two  scant 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Stir  until  this  is  dark  brown,  and 
then  add  a  pint  of  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
boil  for  three  minutes.     Pare,  boil  and  mash  eight  good- 


MEATS.  n 


sized  potatoes;  then  add  to  them  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk, 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the 
taste.  Spread  this  preparation  over  the  meat  and  sauce, 
beginning-  at  the  side  of  the  dish  and  working  toward  the 
centre.  Bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Other  meats  beside 
roast  beef  may  be  used  in  a  shepherd's  pie  if  desired. 

CASSEROLE  OF  RICE  AND  MEAT. 

{1  cup  rice, 
1  teaspoon  salt, 
3  cups  boiling  water, 
2  cups  cold  cooked  meat,  2  tablespoons  cracker 

^4  teaspoon  salt,  crumbs, 

54  teaspoon  celery  salt,  1  cup  hot  water  or  stock, 

}i  teaspoon    pepper.  }i  teaspoon  poultry  season- 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onions,  ing. 

Steam  the  rice  twenty  minutes.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine, 
add  all  seasonings,  then  the  beaten  egg,  cracker  crumbs, 
and  stock,  or  hot  water  enough  to  pack  it  easily.  Line  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  a  greased  mould  or  small  bread  tin  one- 
half  inch  thick  with  the  cooked  rice,  pack  in  the  meat,  cover 
closely  with  rice,  then  cover  with  greased  paper  and  steam 
forty-five  minutes.  Loosen  around  the  edge  of  mould,  turn 
out  upon  a  hot  platter  and  pour  Tomato  Sauce  around  it. 
Garnish  top  with  parsley. 

KONIGSBERGER  KLOPS. 

For  Six  Persons.     Time  of  preparation,  1^  hour. 
}i  lb.  pork.  1  ounce  bread  crumbs, 

14  lb.  veal,  3  eggs, 

54  lb.  beef,  1  quart  brown  sauce, 

y2  teaspoonful   chopped  1  teaspoonful  capers, 

onions,  slightly  fried  in        Lemon  juice, 
butter,  Salt  and  pepper, 

yj  ounce  butter,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 


72  MEATS. 


Mix  the  bread  crumbs  with  one  egg  and  the  butter,  and 
stir  in  a  saucepan  till  the  mixture  is  reduced  to  the  consist- 
ency of  dough.  Put  this  into  a  basin,  and  stir  till  cool,  add- 
ing then  the  salt,  pepper,  the  remaining  eggs  and,  lastly,  the 
meat  which  has  been  passed  twice  through  the  mincing  ma- 
chine. Form  into  twelve  long-shaped  rissoles,  fry  them 
slightly  in  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  then  place  them  to  stew 
gently  for  twelve  minutes  in  a  quart  of  strong,  boiling  brown 
sauce. 

Flavor  the  sauce  with  a  teaspoonful  of  capers,  half  a 
teaspoonful  chopped  onions,  slightly  fried  in  butter,  and  last- 
ly, three  Sardellen,  finely  chopped,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

The  butter  in  which  the  Klops  have  been  fried  can  be 
rinsed  out  of  the  pan  with  some  of  the  brown  sauce,  and 
added  to  the  finished  sauce. 

The  sauce  may  be  varied  by  the  addition  of  tomato  puree, 
red  wine,  or  Madeira,  and  is  greatly  improved  by  the  addition 
of  a  gill  of  sour  cream  and  some  dried  Steinpilze,  which  may 
be  obtained  at  most  of  the  German  Delikatessen  stores. 

DRESSED  MEAT. 

A  cheap,  nourishing,  delicious,  and  easily  digested  meat 
for  luncheon  or  tea  is  made  by  boiling  a  "shank-bone"  of 
veal,  one  of  beef,  and  one  of  mutton  together  until  the  meat 
will  fall  from  the  bone.  Carefully  remove  all  bone  and 
gristlCj  chop  fine,  or  put  through  meat  cutter.  Season  to 
taste;  sage  and  savory  may  be  added  if  desired.  Place  half 
the  mixture  in  a  bread  tin,  have  ready  five  or  six  hard 
boiled  eggs,  cut  each  end  from  them  so  they  can  be  placed 
close,  end  for  end,  in  a  row  on  the  meat  in  the  center  of  tin. 
Then  add  the  balance  of  the  meat,  press  closely,  and  set 
away  until  firm.  Slice  in  a  half  of  egg  in  the  center,  garn- 
ish with  parsley.    This  never  fails  to  be  an  attractive  dish  and 


MEATS.  73 


once  made  well  is  in  constant  demand.     The  stock  can  be 
used  for  soup. 

COLD  MEAT  WITH  TOMATO  JELLY. 

Place  a  finely  chopped  onion  in  an  earthen  saucepan.  Cook 
in  butter  until  the  onion  browns.  Then  pour  in  a  small  can 
of  tomatoes  or  four  large  fresh  tomatoes.  Break  a  stalk  of 
celery  into  very  small  pieces  and  add  to  the  tomatoes.  Add 
also  a  tablespoon ful  of  wine  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoon ful  of 
salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Meanwhile  half  a  teacup  ful  of 
gelatine  should  have  been  dissolved  in  twice  the  quantity  of 
cold  water.  Pour  this  into  the  pan  and  stir  well.  When 
all  have  been  thoroughly  mixed  and  softened  into  a  blended 
mass,  pour  into  a  mold  that  has  an  open  center.  When  cold 
pour  from  the  mold  and  fill  the  center  with  chopped  cold 
meat.     Veal,  lamb  and  chicken  are  delicious  thus  served. 

BRAISED  CALF'S  LIVER. 

2y2     lbs.  calf  liver,  whole,  1  bay  leaf, 

Yz  lb.  of  bacon  for  larding,       6  peppercorns, 
^  cup  each  of  carrots,  on-     3  cloves, 

ions  and  celery,  sliced,      2  cups  soup  stock  or  water, 
2      tablespoons  goose  fat  or     Salt  and  pepper, 
butter. 
The  liver  is  skinned,  larded;  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper 
and  if  desired  a  little  mace,  fried  in  the  hot  fat;  flour,  vege- 
tables and  spices  are  added  and  then  the  two  cups  of  soup 
stock  or  water.     Cover  closely  and  bake  two  hours,  uncover- 
ing the  last  twenty  minutes.     When  ready  to  serve,  strain  the 
liquor,  season  with  lemon  juice,  and  parsley,  chopped  fine  and 
pour  over  the  liver.     Serve  on  hot  platter,  or  thicken  the 
liquid  with  two  tablespoons  flour  made  smooth  with  a  litl^le 
cold  water,  cook  five  minutes  and  pour  around  liver. 


74  MEATS. 


LIVER  BALLS. 

The  liver  for  the  dish  should  be  boiled  the  day  before 
the  balls  are  to  be  made.  Soak  four  ounces  of  crackers  in 
water,  then  drain  them  as  dry  as  possible  and  place  them  in 
a  frying  pan  with  some  fat,  a  little  grated  onion,  salt  and 
pepper;  stir  them  over  the  fire  until  quite  dry,  then  place 
them  in  a  bowl  to  cool.  Grate  one-half  of  a  cold  boiled 
calf's  liver,  add  it  and  three  eggs  to  the  crackers,  also 
salt,  pepper  and  enough  fat  to  prevent  the  balls  from  being 
dry.  Form  this  mixture  into  balls  and  fry  brown  in  hot 
drippings,  drain  on  a  hot  sieve  for  a  few  minutes  before 
serving. 

ESCALLOPED  TRIPE. 

The  tripe  is  cut  in  half -inch  strips,  a  layer  of  these  strips 
is  laid  in  the  bottom  of  an  oiled  baking  dish  and  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  is 
added  and  this  is  covered  in  turn  with  tomato  sauce.  Layer 
after  layer  like  this  is  laid  until  the  dish  is  filled,  then  on  top 
a  thick  covering  of  well  buttered  bread  crumbs,  and  it  is 
baked  brown. 

RABBIT  A  LA  MARYLAND. 

Clean  and  cut  up  two  rabbits;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  dredge  with  flour;  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs;  arrange  them 
in  a  well  greased  dripping  pan  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven,  basting  after  the  first  five  minutes  of  cooking 
with  one-third  cup  butter  melted  in  one  cup  boiling  water 
or  white  stock.  Serve  with  a  cream  sauce  and  garnish  with 
crisp  bacon.  If  the  rabbits  are  old,  more  time  may  be  re- 
quired for  cooking  them.     They  should  be  very  tender. 

SURPRISE  BALLS. 

Mashed  potatoes  Lean  meat  cooked  (chopped), 

Butter  or  fat. 


MEATS.  V5 


Roll  the  potatoes  into  balls,  press  a  hollow  in  the  top 
with  a  teaspoon.  Season  meat  and  fill  into  the  hollow 
ball.  Place  in  greased  pan,  with  a  little  fat  on  the  top  of 
each  ball,  brown  in  the  oven  and  serve  hot. 

"LIVER  A  LA  HEN  PHEASANT/' 

Is  a  very  rich  and  unusual  dish.  To  prepare  it,  a  calf's 
liver  is  required.  This  is  generously  larded  and  stabbed  with 
half  a  dozen  cloves.  It  is  then  smeared  thickly  in  olive  oil 
and  then  dusted  over  with  browned  flour  and  salt.  It  is 
placed  in  a  baking  dish  with  some  olive  oil,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  one  finely  minced  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  half  a  cup 
of  water.  It  is  baked  two  hours  and  basted  frequently.  If 
the  water  and  oil  evaporate  from  the  baking  dish  before  the 
liver  is  done,  add  more  water  and  oil. 

This  is  served  hot,  with  a  sauce  made  of  sweet  peppers, 
chopped,  and  the  gravy  of  the  liver,  thickened  with  browned 
rice  flour. 

CALFS  BRAIN  WITH  BROWNED '  BUTTER. 

Remove  the  fine  skin  from  the  calf's  brain  and  rinse  the 
latter  in  water.  Boil  the  brain  in  water,  adding  salt,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  a  few  slices  of  carrots  and  one-half  a  bay 
leaf.  Boil  for  ten  minutes.  Take  out  carefully  with  a 
skimmer,  split  in  two  and  put  it  on  a  dish.  Heat  two  ounces 
of  butter  until  it  turns  dark  brown,  then  add  a  dash  of 
tarragon  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  brain.  Sprinkle  chopped 
parsley  over  it. 

THURINGER  BRATWURST  WITH  RED  CABBAGE. 

For  six  people.  Cut  up  two  small  heads  of  red  cabbage. 
Then  chop  up  one  onion.  Smother  in  goose  grease  or  lard. 
Add  2  cups  of  water  and  mix  all.  Add  1  small  sour  apple,  a 
small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 


76  MEATS. 


salt,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and 
smother  till  done.  Fry  the  sausage  and  serve  with  the 
cabbage. 

SPANFERKEL. 

For  six  people.    One  well  washed  and  dressed  suckling 

pig  is  left  in  water  for  a  few  hours.    The  eyes  are  taken  out 

and  it  is  salted  inside  and  outside.    The  hind  and  forelegs 

are  bent  under  the  pig  and  in  this  way  it  is  placed  into  a 

pan  with  a  tray  on  which  it  rests.    Pour  in  some  water  and 

let  it  roast  for  10  minutes.     One-half  pound  of  butter  is 

melted  and  the  pig  is  brushed  with  it  every  5  to  10  minutes. 

Gradually  pour  in  more  water  and  cook  1^  hours.    Prick 

the  skin  several  times  so  it  will  not  blister.     The  butter 

will  make  the  pig  crisp.    The  dripping  will  be  served  as 

gravy.    You  can  also  serve  a  truffle,  caper,  or  tomato  gravy. 

POTTED  SHOULDER  OF  LAMB  WITH  STRING 

BEANS. 

For  six  people.    Prepare  2  shoulders  of  lamb.    Take  out 

the  bones,  dress  to  a  roll  and  season.    Roast  the  meat  with 

1  carrot,  2  onions,  half  a  bay  leaf,  a  few  whole  peppers  and 
a  small  piece  of  garlic.  Roast  to  a  golden  color.  Then 
put  in  the  meat  and  the  other  ingredients  in  a  pot.  Dilute 
with  bouillon  and  smother  till  done.    Add  a  little  water  to 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  for  thickening  the  sauce,  which  is 
served  on  the  side.  Arrange  the  meat  on  a  large  platter 
and  garnish  with  string  beans. 

•     LIVER  DUMPLINGS. 

No.  1 —  3^  teaspoon  grated  onion, 

Yi.  lb.  calf's  liver,  i/4  teaspoon  poultry  season- 
1  cup  cracker  or  bread  ing, 

crumbs,  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg,  grated, 

1  cup  milk  or  water,  %  teaspoon  pepper, 

1  ^ggy  Some  grated  lemon  rind. 
1  teaspoon  salt. 


MEAtS.  77 


Skin  the  liver  and  remove  every  particle  of  tough  fibre. 
Chop  fine  in  meat  chopper.  Cook  bread  and  water  to  a 
paste.  Remove  from  stove,  add  egg,  liver  and  seasonings 
and  shape  into  balls  size  of  a  nutmeg  and  drop  into  boiling 
soup  ten  minutes  before  serving  time.  Chicken  liver  maybe 
used  in  place  of  calf's  liver.  The  heart  and  tender  parts  of 
gizzard  may  also  be  used. 

No.  2 —  t  teaspoon  parsley,  chopped, . 

1  lb.  calf's  liver,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  qt.  wheat  bread,  diced,  }i  teaspoon  pepper, 
soaked  and  pressed  dry,         }i  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter  or  fat, 
6  eggs,  1  onion,  cut  fine. 

Skin  and  grind  or  chop  the  liver  very  fine.  Heat  the  fat 
in  a  spider,  add  the  onion,  brown  a  little,  then  add  the  liver 
and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients;  mix  well  and  form  into  balls 
size  of  a  walnut  and  drop  into  salted,  boihng  water  (1  tea- 
spoon salt  to  1  quart  of  water),  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes. 
Drain  in  colander  and  serve  hot,  in  a  well  flavored  meat 
gravy,  or  simply  reheat  them  in  fat. 

CHICKEN  LIVERS  A  LA  CHANTECLER. 

Is  a  delicious  concoction  of  big  Italian  chestnuts  and 
chicken  livers,  done  up  temptingly  with  olive  oil  and  season- 
ing. 

To  make  it,  the  big  chestnuts  are  shelled  and  boiled  ten- 
der, but  not  to  the  degree  of  crumbling.  The  chicken  livers 
are  drained  and  fried  brown  in  olive  oil  and  then  placed  in  a 
casserole,  with  just  sufficient  chicken  stock  to  keep  them  from 
burning,  with  the  chestnuts  dipped  in  olive  oil  and  placed 
over  the  chicken  livers,  with  dabs  of  butter  here  and  there. 
The  casserole  is  cooked  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  and 
then  served  very  hot,  with  fried  apples  in  oil. 


78  MEATS. 


KIDNEY  TOAST. 
Soak  in  cold  water,  pare,  remove  fat  from  centers,  and 
chop  four  lambs'  kidneys.  Cook  three  tablespoons  butter 
with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion  and  one  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  parsley,  five  minutes.  Add  kidneys, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  one-half  tablespoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  and  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Dredge  with  one 
tablespoon  flour,  stir  until  well  mixed,  and  add  gradually  one- 
half  cup  stock.  When  thoroughly  heated  add  four  table- 
spoons grated  cheese,  and  as  soon  as  cheese  has  melted  serve 
on  pieces  of  toast. 


STEWED  RABBIT,  LARDED. 

One  rabbit,  a  few  strips  of  bacon,  rather  more  than  one 
pint  of  good  broth  or  stock,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  thickening  of  butter  and  flour,  one  glass 
of  sherry.  Wash  the  rabbit  well,  cut  it  into  quarters,  lard 
them  with  slips  of  bacon,  and  fry  them ;  then  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  the  broth,  herbs,  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper 
and  salt;  simmer  gently  until  the  rabbit  is  tender,  then  strain 
the  gravy,  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour,  add  the  sherry. 
give  one  boil,  pour  it  over  the  rabbit,  and  serve.  Garnish 
with  one  lemon. 


ROYAL  BREAKFAST  DISH. 

Fry  bacon  nice  and  crisp.  Peel  and  quarter  tart  apples, 
leaving  on  at  least  one-half  the  peeling.  Drop  them  into 
the  hot  fat  and  cover  closly  till  they  begin  to  soften,  care- 
fully turning  them  once  with  a  pancake  turner.  Then 
sprinkle  sugar  over  all  and  turn  again,  leaving  cover  off  to 
let  them  brown  nicely.  Serve  on  hot  platter  with  the  strips 
of  bacon  laid  across  and  you  have  a  dish  fit  for  a  king. 


MEATS.  -ra 


FRIED  GOOSE  LIVER. 

For  one  person.  Carefully  remove  gall  from  1  goose 
liver.  Put  liver  into  ^  pint  milk  diluted  with  water,  where 
it  must  remain  for  2  hours.  Dry  well,  salt  and  pepper,  dip 
in  1  egg,  beaten,  then  in  %  tablespoonful  flour  mixed  with 
broth.  Heat  butter  and  fry  liver  light  brown  for  5  minutes, 
turning  it  several  times.  Serve  on  hot  platter  with 
asparagus  tips. 


RAW  BEEFSTEAK  A  LA  TART  ARE. 

For  six  people.  Two  pounds  of  beef,  which  must  be 
very  fresh  and  free  from  sinews,  are  chopped  or  ground 
twice  in  the  grinder.  The  beef  is  mixed  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, is  formed  into  6  equal  1^  inch  thick  steaks.  Make  a 
depression  in  the  middle  of  each  and  put  into  this  carefully 
one  raw  yolk  of  egg.  Garnish  each  steak  with  a  small  heap 
of  onions,  chopped  small  pieces  of  pickles,  rolled  up  sar- 
delles,  which  were  watered  before  and  freed  of  their  bones. 
Capers  and  mustard  mixed  with  oil  and  vinegar  may  be 
served  with  it.    The  steaks  must  be  served  fresh. 


Poultry 


CHICKEN  SAUTE. 

Remove  pin  feathers,  clean,  singe,  and  disjoint  two  young 
chickens;  dip  them  quickly  into  cold  milk;  drain,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  dredge  thickly  with  flour,  having  as 
much  flour  cling  to  the  chicken  as  possible ;  cut  one  pound 
fat  salt  pork  into  one-fourth  inch  cubes;  fry  out  in  frying 
pan;  remove  scraps;  cook  chicken  slowly  in  fat  until  well 
browned  and  tender.  Serve  with  a  cream  sauce  and  corn 
fritters. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING. 

Yi  boiled  chicken  ( 1  pint  in  J/^  cup  Sherry  wine, 

thick  pieces),  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  fresh  mushrooms,  1  green  pepper  and  1  red  pep- 
1  cup  cream,  per,  cut  in  long,  thin  strips. 

Melt  butter,  add  mushrooms,  cook  five  minutes.  Add 
chicken,  heat  through,  add  salt,  wine  and  the  strips  of  pepper. 
(The  chicken  should  be  removed  from  bone  in  long  thick 
pieces.)  Beat  the  yolks  imtil  light,  add  the  cream,  cook  over 
boiling  water  or  in  chafing  dish,  stirring  constantly  until  thick- 
ened, about  one  and  a  half  minutes;  then  pour  over  the  hot 
chicken  mixture  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 

CHICKEN  SPANISH  STEW. 

Take  half  pound  of  salt  pork  and  cut  in  one  inch  pieces 
and  fry  in  bottom  of  kettle.  Then  add  one  chicken  cut  up 
for  stewing,  nearly  cover  with  water ;  salt  a  large  red  pep- 
per cut  in  pieces,  let  simmer  until  nearly  done;  then  add 
three  cloves  of  garlic,  one  can  tomatoes,  one  can  mush- 
rooms, one  can  peas.     Boil  up  once,  then  thicken  with  two 


POULTRY.  81 


tablespoonfuls  of  flour  that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water.  When  ready  to  serve  have  one  green  pepper 
shredded  to  sprinkle  over  the  top. 

CHICKEN  OR  SWEETBREADS  WITH  MUSH-       ' 
ROOMS. 

(In  Ramikins.) 
J^  cup  mushrooms,  J^  cup  milk,  cream  or 

2  cups  chicken  or  Mushroom  liquid, 

Sweetbreads,  diced,  Yz  cup  chicken  or 

2  tablespoons  butter,       *  Sweetbread  liquid, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  Salt,  pepper  and  ginger, 

2  tablespoons  chopped  al-  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 

monds, 

Blanch  the  almonds,  drain  the  mushrooms.  Take  equal 
parts  of  cold^  boiled  chicken  or  sweetbreads,  diced,  and  mush- 
rooms. Heat  butter,  add  flour  and  gradually  one  cup  of  hot 
liquid,  milk  or  cream  with  mushrooms  and  chicken  or  sweet- 
bread liquid.  Boil  until  smooth,  add  seasoning  rtid  almonds 
and  parsley. 

Place  in  Ramikins  or  in  large  pudding  dish  with  buttered 
crumbs  on  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

If  ramikins  are  used,  set  them  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  to  pre- 
vent cracking. 

VICTORIA  CHICKEN. 

Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  the  yolk  of 
three  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste.  Soak  one-fourth 
of  a  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs  in  one- fourth  of  a  cupful  of 
cold  milk  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  to  the  t.g'g  mixture. 
Pour  on  gradually  one  cupful  of  hot  chicken  stock,  and 
when  the  boiling  point  is  reached  add  one  cupful  of  cooked 
chicken  or  fowl  cut  in  small  pieces.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  celery  salt,  and  serve  on  finger  shaped  pieces  of 
buttered  toast. 


82  POULTRY. 


CHICKEN  CREAM. 
1  tablespoon  granulated  1  cup  heavy  cream, 

gelatine,  1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken, 

%  cup  cold  chicken  stock,  cut  in  dice, 

J4  cup  hot  chicken  stock.  Salt  and  pepper. 

highly  seasoned, 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  soup  stock,  dissolve  in  hot  stock, 
and  strain.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  beat,  using  an 
egg  beater,  until  frothy;  then  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff, 
and  chicken  dice.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  into 
one-quarter  pound  baking  powder  tins,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill,  or  in  any  desired  mould  or  moulds. 

CHICKEN  a  la  SAVOY. 

This  is  a  particularly  nice  way  of  cooking  chicken,  and 
one  that  is  seldom  met  with.  If  you  have  no  white  stock,  use 
instead  half  milk  and  half  water,  but  in  that  case  boil  it  first 
with  a  small  piece  of  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion,  as  this  im- 
proves the  flavor. 

Required:  One  cold  boiled  fowl,  half  a  pint  of  white 
stock,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  ounce  of 
flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  one  lettuce,  salt  and  pepper,  two  hard  boiled 
eggs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  stir  in  the  flour,  then 
add  the  milk  and  stock  gradually,  and  stir  the  sauce  until  it 
boils;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  the  parsley. 

Cut  the  fowl  into  neat  small  joints,  and  take  oflF  the  skin. 
Arrange  the  pieces  in  an  entree  dish,  piling  them  up  rather 
high.  See  that  the  sauce  is  just  thick  enough  to  smoothly 
coat  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon,  then  pour  it  over  the  joints 
of  fowl. 

Wash  the  lettuce,  and  dry  it  gently  by,  shaking  in  a  cloth, 


POULTRY.  83 


then  arrange  in  a  border  round  the  dish.  Cut  the  hard  boiled 
eggs  in  slices,  and  put  a  ring  of  these  inside  the  border  of 
lettuce. 

CHICKEN  WITH  MADEIRA  SAUCE. 

3^2  lbs.  chicken,  ^  cup  butter, 

1  cup  water,  1  small  onion, 

1  teaspoon  paprika,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

l^  lb.  mushrooms,  i^  cup  Madeira  wine. 

Cut  the  chicken  at  joints,  brown  in  the  butter,  add  water, 
the  onion,  salt,  pepper,  mushrooms,  and  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore serving  the  wine.  Cook  two  and  one-half  hours,  on 
until  tender. 

CHICKEN  IN  RICE  CUPS. 

This  is  a  delicious  luncheon  dish  and  also  is  an  economical 
way  of  using  small  quantities  of  leftovers.  To  prepare  it  line 
small  buttered  cups  with  soft-boiled  rice  half  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Fill  the  center  with  cooked  chicken  finely  minced,  deli- 
cately seasoned  and  slightly  made  moist  with  cream  sauce  or 
chicken  broth.  Onion  juice  and  minced  celery  may  be  added 
if  desired.  Cover  the  top  with  a  layer  of  the  rice  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  15  minutes.  Then  invert  the  cups 
carefully  on  a  heated  platter  and  serve  at  once  with  any  pre- 
ferred sauce. 

BREAST  OF  CHICKEN  A  LA  SAM  WARD. 

Remove  the  breast  of  a  tender  three-pound  chicken. 
Remove  the  skin.  Season  the  breast  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  cream  and  flour,  and  then  fry  slowly  for  about 
twelve  minutes  in  a  small  quantity  of  clarified  butter.  Cut 
six  fresh  mushrooms  in  thick  slices,  boil  in  one-half  a  cup 
of  cream  for  ten  minutes  or  more,  then  mix  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  with  some  butter  and  stir  into  the  cream 
to  thicken  it;  let  it  boil  another  five  minutes,  and  then 


84  POULTRY. 


season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Then  add  a  small 
piece  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  sherry  wine.  Put  this 
sauce  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  and  the  fried  breast  on  top ; 
surround  with  fancy  pieces  of  toast. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  WALDORF. 

Cut  white  meat  of  boiled  chicken  into  dice.  Two  truffles 
cut  into  dice,  put  into  a  sauce  pan  with  one  pint  cream,  salt, 
pepper,  and  cook  twelve  minutes.  Pour  gradually  on  two 
beaten  yolks  diluted  in  two  large  spoons  of  Maderia  wine. 
Cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly,  and  serve  at  once. 

MINCED  CHICKEN  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

Boil  two  green  peppers  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  seeds 
and  cut  the  peppers  in  thin  strips,  using  a  pair  of  scissors. 
Mix  with  two  cupfuls  of  cold  fowl  or  chicken  chopped 
(but  not  finely  chopped).  Melt  three  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  three  tablespoon fuls  of  flour,  and 
stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stir- 
ring constantly,  one  and  one-third  cupfuls  of  chicken  stock. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
add  peppers  and  chicken.  Serve  as  soon  as  thoroughly 
heated. 

CANTERBURY  CHICKEN. 

Cook  three  and  one-half  tablespoons ful  of  butter  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  until  yellow,  stir- 
ring almost  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  chicken  stock  (the  liquor  in  which  a  fowl 
has  been  cooked).  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  one-half 
cupful  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  one  and  one-half 


POULTRY. 


cupfuls  of  chopped  chicken.     Serve  hot  and  garnish  with 
toast  points  and  parsley. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

3^  cups  chopped  chicken,        1  tablespoon  parsley, 
Onion  juice,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Make  one  pint  of  very  thicK'  white  sauce.  Chop  the  chicken 
very  fine,  and  add  sauce  to  make  it  as  soft  as  can  be  han- 
dled. Cook  as  in  making  rice  croquettes,  and  shape  and  cook 
in  the  same  way.  Sometimes  a  beaten  egg  is  added  to  the 
sauce  before  mixing  it  with  the  meat. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE. 

Chicken  Souffle  with  Mushroom  Sauce. — Fine  for  a  com- 
pany luncheon  or  for  a  Sunday  night  company  supper. 
Make  a  sauce  with  two  cups  of  scalded  milk,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  rubbed  smooth  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one-fourth  level  teaspoon  of 
pepper.  Add  one-half  cup  of  stale  breadcrumbs  and  cook 
ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  range,  stir  in  two  cups  of 
cooked  chicken  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoon  minced  parsley, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  light,  and  last  fold  in  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Put  in  well 
buttered  mufiin  tins,  filling  about  two-thirds  full.  Set  the 
tins  in  a  dripping  pan,  into  which  has  been  poured  a  little 
boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 
Turn  out  on  to  the  hot  plates  and  serve  with  mushroom 
sauce.  To  make  sauce  melt  butter,  one-fourth  cup,  add 
one-fourth  cup  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  chicken 
stock,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
five  minutes,  then  add  three-fourths  cup  of  cooked  and 
chopped  mushrooms.  When  the  mushrooms  are  hot  the 
sauce  is  ready  to  serve. 


86  POULTRY. 


BIRDS  EN  CASSEROLE. 

6  squabs,  1  onion, 

I  sprig  parsley,  4  cloves, 

1  bay  leaf,  12  mushrooms, 

Yt.  carrot,  5^  wineglass  sherry, 

1  pt.  soup  stock,  or  water,  1   tablespoon  catsup. 

Place  in  the  casserole,  parsley,  bay  leaf,  onion;  then  the 
squabs  or  chicken;  add  soup,  salt,  pepper  or  paprika;  cover 
the  dish  and  put  into  the  oven  one  and  one-half  hours.  When 
tender,  make  a  sauce  as  follows:  Heat  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, add  one  tablespoon  flour,  when  light  brown,  add  the 
sauce  from  the  birds ;  when  boiling,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
add  wine,  mushrooms  and  catsup.  Pour  all  over  the  birds, 
return  to  the  fire,  and  when  hot,  serve  in  the  casserole. 

CHOP  SUEY. 

Clean  a  small  chicken  and  cut  all  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
cut  it  into  strips  one  and  one-half  inch  long  and  one-half  inch 
wide.  Slice  a  large  onion  thin;  soak  a  handful  of  mush- 
rooms for  ten  minutes  in  water  and  remove  the  stems.  Cut 
a  stalk  of  celery  into  small  pieces ;  wash  and  slice  six  Chinese 
potatoes.  In  the  fr}ang-pan  put  some  fat  and  fry  the  chicken 
lightly  in  this,  but  do  not  let  it  get  hard.  Add  the  sliced 
onions  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  the  mushrooms  with 
enough  Chinese  sauce  to  make  the  ingredients  brown.  Pour 
in  enough  water  almost  to  cover  and  simmer  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Put  in  the  celery  and  potatoes  and  stew  for  fifteen 
minutes  more.  Thicken  with  flour  and  water,  and,  when  the 
gravy  is  thick  and  smooth  serve  with  boiled  rice,  seasoning 
well  if  the  sauce  has  not  given  flavor  enough. 


Sauces  and  Dressings  for  Steaks^ 
Meats  and  Fisk 


BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

V/i  cups  highly  seasoned  ^  teaspcx)n  salt. 

chicken  stock.  y^,  teaspoon  pepper. 

1/4  cup  butter.  Few  grains  of  nutmeg. 

l^  cup  flour.  Yolk  3  eggs. 

J^  cup  scalded  thin  cream. 

Process:  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  flour  mixed 
with  seasoning;  stir  to  a  smooth  paste  and  let  cook  one  min- 
ute. Then  add  hot  stock,  stirring  constantly.  Add  hot  cream, 
constantly  stirring.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly;  diltfte  with 
some  of  the  hot  sauce.  Combine  mixtures ;  beat  again  but  do 
not  allow  the  sauce  to  boil  after  adding  tgg  yolks.  White 
Bechamel  Sauce  is  made  by  omitting  yolk  of  eggs. 

SAUCE  BEARNAISE. 

For  six  persons.     Time  of  preparation,  1  hour. 

8  shallots,  1  teaspoon ful  finely  chopped 

3  ounces  butter,  parsley, 

6  pounded  peppercorns,  1  teaspoon  ful  Meat  Extract, 

y2  pint  Moselle,  6  yolks  of  eggs. 
1/4  pint  Tarragon  vinegar. 

Put  on  the  wine,  vinegar,  shallots  and  pepper  together, 
and  boil  till  the  quantity  is  reduced  by  half.  Then  strain 
through  a  cloth  and  add  Meat  Extract.  When  cool,  pour 
into  an  enamel  saucepan,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  butter,  salt, 
and  stir  briskly  till  just  before  it  boils. 

This  sauce  is  excellent  for  fish,  poultry,  veal  cutlets  or 
chops. 


88  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

SAUCE  BORDELAISE. 

First :  With  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  put  two  of  but- 
ter and  one  pint  rich  brown  gravy,  making  some  brown 
sauce.    Let  boil  for  some  time,  half  an  hour  or  so. 

Second:  Chop  three  or  four  shallot  onions  very  fine,  mois- 
ten with  a  glass  of  claret  (Bordeaux),  and  let  boil  down 
to  one-quarter  of  its  volume.  Then  strain  the  previous  pre- 
pared brown  sauce  into  it,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  season  to 
taste.  Add  the  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon,  stir  into  it  a  piece 
of  table  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  teaspoon ful  of 
chopped  parsley.  At  the  last  moment  add  some  pieces  of 
marrow  or  beef,  cut  in  cubes  or  slices  previously  parboiled  in 
water.  This  sauce  to  be  served  over  steaks  or  similar  dark 
meats.  , 

Brown  gravy  is  made  with  veal  bones,  trimmings  of  chicken 
all  well  browned,  with  different  vegetables  like  carrots,  onions, 
celery  and  spices,  and  boiled  for  several  hours  with  frequent 
stirrings,  but  for  the  above  purpose  to  be  made  in  a  hurry 
about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  meat-extract  boiled  with  a 
pint  of  water  will  answer  the  purpose. 


BROWN  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  ^  teaspoon  salt. 

fat.  yi  teaspoon  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  cup  hot  water,  meat,  fish  or  vegetable  stock. 

Brown  the  butter  or  fat  and  if  desired  add  a  small  onion, 
chopped,  and  when  brown  add  the  flour,  let  brown,  and  add 
2-3  cup  of  hot  liquid  and  gradually  the  rest  of  the  season- 
ing. Let  cook  five  minutes  and  serve  with  hot  meat,  vege- 
tables, dumplings,  etc.  This  makes  one  cup  of  sauce;  if 
more  is  required,  add  the  quantities  in  proportion. 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  89 

BROWN  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
1  can  small  button  mush-         2  cups  brown  stock 

rooms  y^  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

4  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  sherry  wine 

4  tablespoons  flour. 

Process :  Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce-pan ;  brown  it  richly ; 
add  flour  and  continue  browning,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
brown  stock  gradually;  continue  stirring.  Add  lemon  juice 
and  sherry.  Heat  the  mushrooms  in  their  own  liquor.  If 
they  are  very  small  button  mushrooms  they  may  be  used 
whole ;  if  larger  mushrooms  are  used  they  may  be  cut  in 
quarters.  Drain  from  the  hot  liquor  and  add  them  to  the 
sauce. 


WHITE  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  hot  milk. 

Yz  teaspoon  pepper, 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Remove  from  fire  and 
mix  with  flour.  Cook  until  it  bubbles,  then  add  two-thirds 
of  the  hot  milk  at  once  and  the  rest  gradually  and  boil,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Season  and  serve 
hot. 


CREOLE  SAUCE. 

Prepare  a  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce.  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter  in  a  sauce-pan;  add  one  green  pepper  finely 
chopped,  one  small  onion  finely  chopped;  cook  five  minutes. 
Add  two  tomatoes  cut  in  pieces  or  one  cup  of  canned  toma- 
toes and  ten  olives  pared  from  the  pit  in  one  continuous  curl. 
Cook  three  minutes.  Add  the  Brown  Sauce  and  bring  to 
boiling  point.  Add  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine.  Do  not 
strain  the  sauce.    Serve  with  steaks,  chops  and  fillet  of  beef. 


90  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

CUMBERLAND  SAUCE. 

For  6  Persons.  Time  of  Preparation:   1   hour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  red  wine.       1  tablespoonful  orange 
2  tablespoonfuls  German  syrup. 

mustard.  1  tablespoonful  lemon 

J^  teaspoonful  dry  English  syrup. 

mustard.  J^  teaspoonful  finely-chopped 

y2  gill  brown  sauce.  orange  peel  (colored  por- 

2  oz.  red  currant  jelly.  tion  only). 

4  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,         1  oz.  raspberry  jelly. 

Stir  well  together  the  jelly,  mustard  and  oil.  Add  the 
brown  sauce  and  continue  stirring  till  all  is  well  mixed. 
Then  add  the  other  ingredients  gradually. 

SAUCE  GALLI. 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
Yz  tablespoon  lemon  juice  sauce. 

1  slice  onion  1  cup  thick  tomato  puree. 
Bit  of  bay  leaf.  1  small  clove  garlic 

2  tablespoons  green  pepper,  3  cloves. 

finely  chopped.  Salt  and  cayenne. 

Process:  Cook  onion,  garlic,  bay  leaf,  and  cloves  with 
tomato,  until  there  be  one  cup  pulp.  Brown  butter  richly; 
add  tomato  pulp,  Worcestershire  sauce,  lemon  juice,  green 
pepper  previously  parboiled  ten  minutes,  salt  and  cayenne. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

1/4  cup  chopped  mint  leaves.     1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar, 
^  cup  vinegar. 

Add  sugar  to  vinegar;  when  dissolved  pour  over  mint  and 
let  stand  thirty  minutes  over  slow  fire  to  infuse.  If  vinegar 
is  strong  dilute  with  water.     Serve  hot  over  hot  Iamb. 

Or  boil  sugar  and  vinegar,  throw  in  the  mint  leaves  and 
let  boil  up  once.     Set  aside  and  serve  cold  with  lamb. 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  91 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

%  can  mushrooms,  1  cup  brown  sauce, 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 
Make  Brown  Sauce  after  the  recipe  and  add  to  it  the 
mushrooms,  drained,  rinsed  and  cut  in  quarters  or  slices,  or 
make  1  cup  of  Brown  Sauce  using  1  cup  of  mushroom  liquid 
in  place  of  the  other  liquid  and  add  1  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley.    Serve  hot  over  meat. 

SAUCE  ROBERT  OR  MUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Chop  three  or  four  shallot  onions  very  fine,  moisten  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  good  vinegar  and  a  little  white  wine, 
let  the  whole  boil  down  to  a  tablespoonful  of  liquid.  Then 
add  one  gill  of  brown  sauce  previously  prepared,  or  if  not 
convenient  take  s6me  brown  gravey  thickened  with  a  little 
flour  mixed  with  a  small  piece  of  butter;  when  boiling  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  salt  and  pepper,  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  stir  it  up  well  and  serve.  This 
sauce  is  mostly  served  with  fried  or  broiled  pork  chops  and 
tongues. 

PIQUANTE  SAUCE. 

1  cup  Brown  Sauce.  Claret  wine  or  vinegar. 
j4  small  onion,  chopped  fine.    1  tablespoon  each  of  capers 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  or  and  pickles,  chopped. 
Make  Brown  Sauce  and  while  hot  add  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients.   Serve  hot  with  beef. 

SAUCE  ITALIENNE. 
Chop  fine  one  onion  and  eight  canned  mushrooms,  fry 
the  onion  to  a  golden  color  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Then  add  the  chopped  mushrooms  and  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  flour,  fry  together  for  a  few  minutes 
more,  then  moisten  with  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  one-half 


92  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

a  pint  of  gravy,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  meat-extract  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  or  catsup.  Boil  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes,  add  the  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  before  serving.  This  sauce  can  be  served  v^ith 
steaks  or  chops  and  also  fish  "au  gratin." 

SAUCE  REMOULADE. 

For  six  persons.     Time  of  'preparation,  1  hour. 
4  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs.    1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 

1  raw  yolk.  Tarragon  vinegar,  salt  and 

2  ounces  German  mustard,  pepper  to  taste, 

%  pint  salad  oil.  1  finely  chopped  Sardelle. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  mortar  mix  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  the  raw  yolk.  Then  stir  in  the  oil  and  mustard,  vine- 
gar to  taste,  the  chopped  Sardelle,  parsley,  pepper,  salt  and 
a  trifle  sugar. 

A  little  chopped  onion,  also  capers,  may  be  added. 

SAUCE  RAVIGOTTE  (No.  1.) 
2    tablespoons  butter,  Yz  cup  water, 

y^.  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1     cup  strained  tomato, 

2    tablespoons  flour,  1     teaspoon  salt. 

Speck  pepper. 
Heat  the  butter,  remove  from  the  fire,   stir  in  the  flour. 
Add  the  water,  stir  well,  add  the  tomato,  the  onion  juice,  salt 
and  pepper,  boil  5  minutes.    Served  hot  with  boiled  macaroni, 
or  with  boiled  or  baked  meat,  or  with  baked  eggs  or  fish. 

SAUCE  RAVIGOTTE  (No.  2.) 

3^2  can  tomatoes  or  3  cloves, 

1^  cups  fresh  stewed  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

tomatoes,  other  fat, 

2  slices  onion,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

8  peppercorns,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 

1  bay  leaf,  14  teaspoon  salt. 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  93 

Gook  tomatoes  15  minutes  with  the  onion,  peppercorns, 
bay  leaf  and  cloves.    Strain. 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  2-3  cup  flour  and 
then  the  rest  of  the  hot  strained  tomatoes.     Season  to  taste. 

Served  over  hot  chops,  fish,  macaroni,  etc. 

SAUCE  RAVIGOTTE  (No.  3.) 

Chop  together  well  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  watercress, 
chives,  chervil,  one-half  a  dozen  leaves  of  cooked  spinach, 
two  anchovies,  a  few  capers,  a  small  pickle,  and  one  shallot 
onion,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  mix  into  one-half  pint 
or  less  of  mayonnaise. 

ENGLISH  CHUTNEY  SAUCE. 

1  lb.  apples,  chopped,  %  cup  of  mint  leaves, 

J4  lb.  of  raisins,  chopped.         1  oz.  of  white  mustard  seed, 

1  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  %  cup  salt, 

chopped.  2  cups  granulated  sugar. 

2  red  peppers,  chopped.  Ij^  qts.  vinegar,  boiled  and 
6  small  onions,  chopped.  cooled. 

Salt  the  chopped  tomatoes  and  let  drain  in  a  bag  over 
night.  The  rest  of  the  ingredients  may  be  put  through  the 
meat  chopper.  This  sauce  requires  no  cooking,  but  should  be 
kept  in  a  crock  for  ten  days,  in  a  convenient  place,  that  it 
may  be  stirred  every  day.  Place  in  wide  mouthed  bottles, 
cork  and  seal. 

STUFFING  FOR  BOILED  FOWL. 

Cook  two  cups  spaghetti  in  one-inch  pieces  in  two 
quarts  of  boiling  salt  water  until  tender ;  drain,  blanch,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one  small  onion  finely 
chopped;  fill  the  fowl  with  above  mixture;  truss  neatly  as 
for  roasting. 


94  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

BREAD  DRESSING  FOR  GOOSE  OR  DUCK. 

1  quart  stale  bread,  dried.  2  tablespons  fat. 

Liver,    gizzard    and    heart,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

chopped  fine,  }i  teaspoon  pepper, 

j4  onion,  chopped  fine.  %  teaspoon  ginger, 

}i  cup  celery  root,  diced,  >^  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

J^  cup  strained  tomatoes.  1  egg. 

Soak  the  bread  in  water  and  squeeze  dry.  Heat  the 
fat  in  a  spider,  add  the  bread  crumbs  and  fry  just  a  little, 
add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Nice  for  goose 
or  duck. 


BREAD  STUFFING  FOR  MEAT  OR  POULTRY. 

1  quart  stale  bread  in  pieces,  ^  teaspoon  poultry  season- 

1  teaspoon  salt,  ing, 
%  teaspoon  pepper,  1  egg. 

2  tablespoons  fat  drippings,  }^  teaspoon  onion,  chopped 

melted,  fine. 

}i  teaspoon  ginger,  Heart,  liver  and  gizzard. 

Soak  bread  in  cold  water  and  squeeze  dry.  Season  to 
taste  and  add  the  melted  fat.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  the 
egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  onion  if  you  wish.  Add  heart, 
liver  and  tender  parts  of  gizzard,  chopped  fine,  and  par- 
tially boiled. 


ALMOND  SAUCE  FOR  MOULDED  FISH. 

One  cup  chopped  almonds  browned  in  2  tablespoons  of 
butter.  Brown  butter  before  adding  almonds.  Add  2 
tablespoons  flour,  gradually  1  pint  of  cream.  Salt  and  pep- 
per and  juice  of  }^  lemon,  and  a  little  wine  or  sherry. 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 


SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  FISH. 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  same  of  flour  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  pepper  and  salt.  Add  browned 
stock  from  baked  fish  and  a  little  more  water  if  necessary. 
Just  before  serving,  add  to  sauce  a  teaspoon  each  of  chopped 
raw  onion  and  parsley,  hard  boiled  egg  chopped,  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  a  very  little  sugar.  Put  fish  on  a  platter 
and  pour  sauce  over  it. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  TONGUE  OR  FISH. 

2  whole  eggs,  and  1/4  cup  olive  oil, 

1  yolk,  14  teaspoon  salt,  pepper, 

1  tablespoon  mustard,  paprika  to  taste. 

2  tablespoons  vinegar. 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
eggs,  very  well  beaten  and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and 
cook  until  thick  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
cream  to  thin. 

CREAlVt  SAUCE. 
1  cup  hot  white  sauce,  2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Pour  the  white  sauce  gradually  over  the  beaten  yolks  and 
cook  slowly  until  thick,  stirring  constantly,  or  add  a  little 
cold  water  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  stir  slowly  into  the  gravy. 
Two  tablespoons  of  wine  may  be  added  to  flavor  it.  Serve 
at  once,  hot,  over  cooked  green  peas,  asparagus,  fish,  meat 
or  poultry. 

SALMON    SAUCE. 

Strained  salmon  liquor.        1  teaspoon  corn  starch. 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter.      5  tablespoons  tomato  catsup. 
y2  cup  milk.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Process:     Add  melted  butter  to  strained   salmon  liquor. 
Add  milk  and  bring  these  ingredients  to  the  boiling  point. 


96  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

Dilute  corn  starch  with  two  tablespoons  cold  milk,  adding 
to  first  mixture  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  smooth  and 
glossy.  Add  tomato  catsup,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  well 
with  a  wire  whisk  and  pour  around  Salmon  Loaf. 

LEMON  SAUCE  FOR  FISH  OR  MEAT. 
Juice  of  one  large  lemon,  one-half  cup  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.     Heat,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.    Then  mix  it  with  two 
well-beaten  yolks. 

NEWBURG  SAUCE  FOR  FISH  OR  LOBSTER. 
4  or  5  yolks,  1  cup  milk, 

3  tablespoons  sherry,  1  cup  cream. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Beat  the  yolks  until  very  light,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients and  cook  over  boiling  water,  until  thick  and  smooth, 
stirring  constantly.  •  , 

TARTAR  SAUCE  (No.  1.) 

Add  to  one-half  pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoonful  chopped  capers, 
one;  tablespoonful  pickles,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  finely 
chopped  onions. 

TARTAR  SAUCE  (No.  2.) 

1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing,       1  tablespoon  chopped  olives, 
1  tablespoon  chopped  capers,     1  tablespoon  cucumber 
1  tablespoon  tarragon  vine-  pickles, 

gar. 
Make  any  desired  mayonnaise,  and  add  to  it  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients.     Serve  cold  with  fish  or  cold  meat  dishes. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  (No.  1.) 

This  is  considered  the  finest  dressing  for  salads.  Work 
one-quarter   teaspoonful   of   cayenne  pepper   and   one-half 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  97 

teaspoonful  of  salt  into  two  fresh,  raw  yolks  of  eggs  with  a 
wooden  spoon  in  a  cold  basin ;  set  on  ice  if  possible.  When 
creamy  add  ten  or  twelve  drops  of  the  best  olive  oil  and  a 
drop  or  two  of  sharp  vinegar  or  lemon  juice;  work  smooth 
again,  always  moving  the  spoon  evenly  and  in  the  same 
direction.  Add  the  same  quantity  of  oil  and  vinegar  and  re- 
peat this  until  one  pint  of  oil  has  been  used  up.  The  proper 
proportion  is  about  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  to  eight 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil.  It  requires  patience  to  make  this 
sauce  a  success.  Mayonnaise  may  be  made  white  by  add- 
ing just  before  serving  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  whipped 
stiff.  A  delicate  green  color  may  be  obtained  by  pounding 
a  little  spinach,  water  cress  or  parsley  in  mortar  with  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  adding  it  to  the  mayonnaise.  It  is 
then  called  Ravigotte  sauce. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  NO.  2. 

Have  all  the  ingredients  cold,  also  the  bowl  for  mixing. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  then  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  olive  oil,  stirring  constantly  and 
always  the  same  way  or  the  dressing  will  curdle.  Thin  out 
when  necessary  with  juice  of  one  lemon  or  same  amount 
of  vinegar.  When  all  the  oil  has  been  used,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  onion  juice. 

HOME-MADE  FRENCH  DRESSING. 

To  make  one  quart,  take  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half 
a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  English  mustard,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
paprika,  one-third  of  a  quart  of  vinegar,  shake  well,  and 
make  up  the  balance  of  the  quart  with  olive  oil.  This 
dressing  well  corked  will  keep  indefinitely.  Shake  the  bot- 
tle before  using;-. 


98  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING  (No.  1.) 

(For  Tomatoes,  Lettuce,  etc.) 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  onion,  chopped 
1/4  teaspoon  mustard,  fine, 

}i  teaspoon  pepper,  J4  cup  water. 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  4  tablespoons  vinegar, 

Mix,  set  aside  and  keep  very  cold  and  pour  over  salad, 
just  before  serving. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING  (No.  2.) 

y2  tablespoon  salt,  3  or  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

14  teaspoon  white  pepper,  or  any  poultry  fat, 

15^  tablespoons  vinegar,  ^  teaspoon  onion  juice. 

y2  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Mix  the  ingredients,  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Serve 
ice  cold  over  lettuce,  tomatoes,  etc.,  and  to  marinate  boiled 
meats  and  vegetables. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE   (No.   1.) 

y2  cup  unsalted  butter.  %  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  2  eggs.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

J4  tablespoon  lemon  juice.         ^4  cup  hot  water. 

Process:  Work  the  butter  with  the  hands  in  a  bowl  of 
cold  water  until  it  is  of  a  "waxy"  consistency.  Divide  it 
into  three  pieces  of  equal  size.  Put  one  part  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  lemon  juice;  place  sauce-pan 
in  a  larger  pan  containing  hot  water;  stir  constantly  with  a 
Gem  egg  whip  until  butter  is  blended  with  the  yolks;  add 
the  second  piece  of  butter  and  as  sauce  thickens  add  the 
third  piece.  At  this  point  in  the  process  the  mixture  should 
be  the  consistency  of  boiled  custard.  Add  hot  water  slowly, 
and  seasoning,  beating  constantly.  The  water  in  the  largest 
sauce-pan  should  be  kept  just  below  the  boiling  point. 


SAUCES  AND  DI^SSINGS.  99 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  (No.  2.) 

Take  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  one-half  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Put  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  lemon  juice, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  it  on  the 
fire  until  it  thickens,  then  add  some  more  butter  and  keep 
on  until  all  the  butter  is  worked  in,  being  careful  not  to  let 
it  get  too  hot  or  it  will  curdle.  Then  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  thick  cream.  In  adding  cream  it  improves  the 
sauce,  giving  it  a  more  palatable  taste,  especially  if  served 
with  asparagus.  This  sauce  can  be  served  with  all  kinds  of 
boiled  fish,  cauliflower,  French  artichokes,  celery,  etc. 

VINAIGRETTE  DRESSING. 

%  chopped  onion,  3  teaspoons  vinegar, 

2  branches  parsley,  Salt  and  pepper, 

3  stalks  chives,  or  4  tablespoons  good  oil. 
14  green  pepper,  chopped. 

Mix  all  together  but  the  oil;  put  that  in  last,  and  slowly. 

VINAIGRETTE  SAUCE  WITH  EGG. 

Mash  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oil,  two  of  vinegar  and  one  fine  chopped  chal- 
lot,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  chives,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  half  as  much  pepper.    Cayenne  pepper  is  preferred. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  tablespoon  salt.  Yolks  of  4  eggs, 

^2  tablespoon  mustard,  1/3  cup  melted  butter, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  ^i  cup  milk. 

Few  grains  cayenne,  14  cup  vinegar  diluted  with 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch,  2  tablespoons  cold  water. 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  egg  yolks 
slightly  beaten,  butter,  milk,  and  diluted  vinegar,  the  latter 
very  slowly  while  beating  constantly.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
until  mixture  thickens.  Cool  and  thin  with  cream  if  neces- 
sary. 


100  SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS. 

CATSUP  SAUCE. 

1  cup  white  sauce.  3  tablespoons  Catsup. 

Make  White  Sauce.  Mix  with  the  catsup  and  serve  hot  or 
cold  over  fish  or  meat. 

DELMONICO  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1  hard  cooked  egg,  chopped   2  tablespoons  olive  oil, 

fine,  }i  teaspoon  chopped  green 

1  teaspoon  tomato  catsup,  peppers, 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire      Red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
Sauce,  Chopped  truffles  if  desired, 

2  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar. 
Mix  and  serve  cold  over  lettuce,  tomatoes,  etc. 

GARGOYLE  SAUCE. 

Boiled  oil  mayonnaise,  J4  teaspoon  paprika, 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire      1  teaspoon  pearl  onions, 

Sauce,  y2  teaspoon   chopped  green 

3  tablespoons  Chili  Sauce,  peppers. 

RUSSIAN  SAUCE. 

Pound  together  some  water  cress,  parsley,  chives,  gher- 
kins, the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  few  anchovies, 
capers,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  add  the  weight  of  all  of  butter, 
and  work  into  a  paste.  Add  lemon  juice  until  smooth  and 
creamy. 

EPICURES*  DELIGHT  SAUCE. 

First  rub  a  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic.  Take  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  to- 
mato catsup.  Add  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  gradually, 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

BACON  FAT  SAUCE. 
Heat  five  tablespoonfuls  of  strained  bacon  or  ham  fat  in 
a  saucepan;    add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  stir  to  a 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS.  lOi 

smooth  paste.  Add  one-eighth  of  a  tablespoonful  of  pap- 
rika and  one-third  of  a  cup  of  vinegar  diluted  with  one  cup 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  When  the  sauce  be- 
gins to  boil,  remove  to  the  side  of  range  and  beat  in  two 
yolks  of  eggs.  Add  more  salt  if  necessary.  Do  not  allow 
the  sauce  to  boil  after  the  eggs  are  added.  Chill  thoroughly 
and  serve  with  spinach  or  dandelion,  endive  or  lettuce. 
The  sauce  may  be  thinned  with  cream  if  too  thick. 

GARLIC  DRESSING. 

Take  two  or  three  kernels  of  garlic  and  extract  juice 
therefrom  by  mashing  in  a  little  bowl.  Use  only  juice  and 
not  pulp.  Three  or  four  dashes  of  paprika,  almost  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  three  tablespoon fuls  of  Malt  vinegar  and 
two  tablespoon  fuls  of  water,  and  mix  together.  Then  add 
one-half  cup  of  oil.     Pour  this  dressing  over  salad. 

ONION  DRESSING. 

Into  a  French  dressing  grate  one  good  sized  onion,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  horseradish.    Strain  and  use. 

RED  DRESSING. 

Mix  salt  and  pepper  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice.  Peel  one  tomato  and  chop  fine,  draining  off  most  of 
the  juice,  and  add  to  the  rest  of  the  dressing  one  red  pepper 
chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  pour  in 
slowly  four  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
set  on  ice  before  using. 

ROQUEFORT  DRESSING. 

Into  four  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  work  half  a  pound  of 
grated  Roquefort  cheese  until  thoroughly  smooth.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  salt, 
one  of  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 


V  egetables 


ARTICHOKE  SAUTE. 

Cut  six  line,  green  artichokes  into  quarters  and  remove 
the  chokes.  Trim  the  leaves  neatly  and  parboil  them  five 
minutes  in  salted  water,  drain.  Lay  them  in  a  casserole, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  one- fourth  cup  butter;  one- 
fourth  cup  mushrooms,  chopped  fine,  may  be  added.  Cover 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  any  desired  sauce.     Hollandaise  is  best. 

BAKED   BEANS. 
1  qt.  navy  beans,  1  tablespoon  salt, 

54  lb.  fat  salt  pork,  or  2  tablespoons  molasses, 

V/i  lbs.  brisket  of  beef,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 

J4  tablespoon  mustard,  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Wash,  pick  beans  over,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  soak 
over  night.  In  the  morning  cover  with  fresh*  water,  heat 
slowly  and  let  cook  just  below  the  boiling  point  until  the  skins 
burst,  which  is  best  determined  by  taking  a  few  on  the  tip 
of  the  spoon  and  blowing  over  them;  if  done,  the  skins  will 
burst.  When  done,  drain  beans  and  put  in  pot  with  the 
brisket  of  beef.  If  pork  is  used  scald  it,  cut  through  rind  in 
half -inch  strips,  bury  in  beans,  leaving  rind  exposed.  Mix 
mustard,  salt,  sugar,  molasses  and  water,  and  pour  over  beans 
and  add  enough  more  water  to  cover  them.  Cover  pot  and 
bake  slowly  six  or  eight  hours.  Uncover  pot  the  last  hour  so 
that  pork  will  brown  and  crisp. 

STRING  BEANS  AND  TOMATOES. 

1  qt.  string  beans,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

1  cup  strained  tomatoes,  %  teaspoon  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  fat,  2  tablespoons  flour, 
I  teaspoon  salt, 


VEGETABLES.  103 


Cut  off  both  ends  of  the  beans,  string  them  carefully  and 
break  into  pieces  about  one  inch  in  length  and  cook  in  boil- 
ing, salted  water,  one  teaspoon  salt  to  quart  of  water.  When 
tender,  reduce  the  liquor  to  about  half  a  cup. 

Heat  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  seasoning  and  add  the 
strained  tomatoes;  cook  until  smooth  and  pour  this  sauce 
over  the  beans ;  let  cook  slowly  for  about  fifteen  minutes  and 
serve  hot. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

For  Six  Persons.     Time  of  Preparation,  2  hours. 
3  lbs.  Brussels  sprouts,  A  pinch  of  carbonate  of  soda, 

3  ounces  butter,  A  pinch  of  pepper, 

1  tablespoon ful  flour.  Salt, 

1  pint  stock,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley, 

A  pinch  of  nutmeg,  J^  teaspoonful  chopped  onion, 

Throw  the  sprouts,  after  removing  the  outer  leaves,  into 
three  quarts  boiling  water,  with  salt  and  a  pinch  of  carbo- 
nate of  soda.  After  bringing  up  to  the  boil  again,  take  the 
sprouts  out  and  drain  on  a  sieve  and  then  on  a  dry  cloth,  so 
that  no  water  remains  in  them. 

Brown  an  ounce  of  the  butter  with  the  flour  and  sugar, 
add  the  stock,  chopped  onion  and  parsley,  pepper,  nutmeg 
and  the  remaining  butter.  Boil  up  well,  then  put  in  the 
sprouts  and  allow  all  to  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 

CARROTS  A  LA  CYRANO. 

To  make  the  dish^  the  tenderest  young,  sweet  carrots  are 
chosen.  These  are  scraped  and  boiled  tender.  Then  they 
are  cut  lengthwise  in  halves,  dipped  in  thickest  honey  and 
placed  in  a  baking  dish,  with  the  bottom  thinly  covered  with 
olive  oil.  They  are  then  thickly  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese 
and  salt  and  placed  in  a  hot  oven  and  browned  over  for  per- 
haps fifteen  minutes. 


104  VEGETABLES. 


FLEMISH  CARROTS. 

1  qt.  carrots,  %  teaspoon  salt, 

1  qt.  boiling  water,  }i  teaspoon  pepper  (white), 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1^  cup  soup  stock, 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  fat,         1  teaspoon   parsley 
1  button  onion,  (chopped). 

1  teaspoon  sugar, 

Scrape,  slice  and  cook  the  carrots  in  the  boiling  Salt  water 
until  tender;  drain.  Heat  butter,  add  onion,  brown  lightly, 
add  carrots  and  seasoning  and  shake  well  over  the  fire  for  ten 
minutes,  add  the  soup  stock,  cover  and  simmer  for  half  an 
hour,  then  add  the  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

CORN  AND  GREEN  PEPPERS  EN  CASSEROLE. 

In  season  green  corn  is  best  for  this  delicious  dish,  but 
canned  corn  may  be  substituted  when  desired.  Too  much 
liquor  must  not  be  used  with  the  canned  corn,  all  that  is 
superfluous  being  drained  off.  Cut  the  corn  from  ear,  mix 
with  half  the  quantity  of  minced  sweet  green  peppers  and 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  in  the  heater  and  but- 
tered casserole  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Uncover,  add  a  layer  of  buttered  bread  crumbs  and 
leave  uncovered  in  the  oven  just  long  enough  to  brown  deli- 
cately. 

CORN  WITH  BACON. 

Fry  thin  slices  of  bacon  until  crisp,  remove  these  from 
the  pan,  placing  them  where  they  will  keep  hot.  Pour  into 
the  grease  one  can  of  corn;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
over  quick  fire  until  brown.     Serve  with  hot  bacon. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN. 

Put  boiled  cauliflower  with  white  or  cream  sauce  in  but- 
tered baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  if  desired 
half  a  cup  grated  cheese,  and  bake  on  center  grate  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 


VEGETABLES.  105 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER. 

For  Six  Persons.     Time  of  Preparation,  2  hours. 
\y2  lb.  cauliflower,  y^  teaspoonful  Meat  Extract,. 

2  ounces  butter,  2  tablespoon fuls  flour, 

1  gill  cream,  A  pinch  of  ground  mace. 

Boil  the  cauliflower.  Heat  one  and  a  half  ounces  butter 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  flour  to  a  golden  brown,  add  the 
cream  and  half  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  cauliflower 
has  been  boiled,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  Meat  Extract  dis- 
solved in  it.  Boil  this  sauce  till  thick,  then  flavor  with  ground 
mace.  Strain  and  pour  over  the  cauliflower,  which  has  been 
placed  in  a  deep  dish.  Melt  the  remaining  half  ounce  but- 
ter, pour  it  over,  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven,  standing  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN. 

6  ears  of  cooked  corn,  or        1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  can  of  corn,  J/g  teaspoon  pepper, 

y2  cup  corn  liquid,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

3  tablespoons  cream,  1  cup  bread  crumbs, 
1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

Cut  fresh  boiled  corn,  too  old  to  serve  on  cobs,  from  the 
cob ;  or  use  the  pulp  of  one  can  of  corn. 

Mix  corn  with  the  salt,  pepper,  flour  and  sugar  and  add 
the  liquids.  Melt  the  butter,  mix  with  the  bread  crumbs  and 
cover  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with  half  of  the  crumbs,  add 
the  corn  mixture  and  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  hot  in 
pudding  dish. 

BAKED  CABBAGE. 

A  great  many  people  to  whom  cabbage  is  distasteful  find 
it   delicious   prepared   in   the   following  way.     Take   a   firm 


106  VEGETABLES 

white  head  of  cabbage,  cut  in  rather  small  pieces,  and  boil 
until  tender.  Drain  off  water,  put  in  chopping  bowl  and 
chop  fine.  To  a  large  cupful  of  rich  milk  add  one  egg, 
beaten,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  melted  butter,  seasoning  with 
salt  and  a  little  white  pepper  if  at  hand.  Mix  with  cabbage, 
put  in  baking  pan  and  bake  twenty  minutes,  putting  small 
pieces  of  butter  over  the  top. 

CREAMED  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  and  slice  very  thin  2  large  sized  cucumbers,  put 
in  strong  salt  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Let  stand  about 
three  hours  then  squeeze  out  through  napkin. 

For  dressing  take  small  bottle  of  cream  (sour  cream  is 
even  better  than  sweet),  add  a  little  vinegar  (to  taste),  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  pinch  of  pepper.  Whip  this 
all  together  until  it  is  a  little  thick  then  mix  with  cucum- 
bers and  sprinkle  red  pepper  on  top.  Serve  very  cold  gar- 
nished with  chopped  parsley. 

The  above  serves  about  six  people. 

CABBAGE  AU  GRATIN. 

y2  large  cooked  cabbage,  Salt  and  paprika, 

1  pt.  white  sauce,  }4  cup  cracker  crumbs, 

^  cup  grated  cheese,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

Put  a  layer  of  the  cabbage,  coarse-chopped,  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  paprika,  and 
salt  as  needed,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  white  sauce.  Re- 
peat the  layers  until  all  the  ingredients  have  been  used,  hav- 
ing the  last  layer  of  sauce.  Cover  with  the  cracker  crumbs 
mixed  with  the  butter.  Let  stay  in  the  oven  only  long  enough 
to  make  very  hot  and  brown  the  crumbs. 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE. 

The  cabbage  should  first  be  boiled  in  water  in  which 
a  little  soda  has  been  added.    It  should  be  permitted  to  ac- 


VEGETABLES.  107 


tually  boil  but  five  minutes.  Then  the  water  is  drained 
off  thoroughly  and  the  cabbage  is  placed  in  clear  water 
again,  enough  to  cover  it,  and  then  it  is  boiled  until  tender. 
Chop  the  drained  cabbage  and  place  a  layer  of  it  in  a  baking 
dish,  cover  with  white  sauce  made  with  a  cupful  of  milk, 
two  dessertspoonfuls  each  of  flour  and  butter,  with  season- 
ing to  taste,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  then  put  another 
layer  of  cabbage  and  again  a  layer  of  white  sauce  and 
sprinkle  the  top  with  paprika  and  grated  cheese  and  brown 
bread  crumbs  with  dabs  of  butter.    Bake  until  well  browned. 

CABBAGE  ROLLS. 

1  lb.  lean  raw  beef,  chopped.     1  onion,  chopped. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1  small  onion,  (juice).  2  tablespoons  vinegar. 

Yi  cup  cooked  rice.  8  large  leaves  of  cabbage. 

2  large  tomatoes. 

Season  the  meat  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  onion 
juice  and  rice. 

Soak  the  cabbage  leaves  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes  to 
make  them  less  brittle.  Roll  a  portion  of  the  meat  mixture 
in  each  leaf.  Place  them  in  a  kettle  with  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients, add  a  little  water  and  let  simmer  and  stew  until 
cabbage  is  tender  and  well  browned. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE. 

Remove  the  stalk  end  of  a  head  of  cabbage,  leaving  a 
hollow  shell  of  ample  size.  Chop  fine  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  round  steak,  with  one-fourth  inch  slice  of  bacon, 
and  ©ne  onion;  add  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in 
water  to  cover  and  wrung  dry;  one  beaten  ^gg.  Season 
highly  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  and  mace;  mould  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  small  ^^^  and  arrange  in  cabbage  shell ; 
cover  with  shreds  of  green  pepper  and  steam  until  cab- 
bage is  tender ;  dispose  on  serving  platter  and  surround  with 
tomato  sauce. 


108  VEGETABLES. 


CELERY  TOAST. 

A  dainty  dish  for  Sunday-night  tea  is  celery  toast.  For  a 
small  family,  clean  one  moderate-sized  stalk  of  celery,  using 
all  the  stalk,  root  and  such  leaves  as  are  blanched  and  tender. 
Cut  in  small  pieces,  put  over  the  fire,  and  boil  till  tender, 
taking  care  not  to  have  too  much  water,  so  that  it  may  boil 
down  and  retain  all  substance.  Add  a  generous  pint  of  milk, 
keep  over  the  fire  until  scalded,  then  thicken  very  slightly 
with  flour,  lastly  adding  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hick- 
ory-nut. You  will  need  eight  slices  of  toast,  which  should  be 
brown  and  crisp.  Butter  these  and  lay  in  a  deep  covered 
dish.  Turn  the  celery  gravy  over  it  and  serve  immediately. 
Do  not  dip  the  toast  in  the  milk.  This  is  a  delicious  dish  of 
which  a  family  does  not  easily  tire.  Convalescents  usually 
enjoy  it  also. 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  mashed  French  chest-     2  yolks  of  eggs, 

nuts,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  thick  cream,         %  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Shape  in  balls,  dip  in 
crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  hot  fat  and  drain. 

"MUSHROOMS  A  LA  DOROTHY." 

Clean  the  mushrooms  and  grate  the  stems.  Put  into  a 
small  pan  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  small  teaspoonful  of  flour 
and  brown  slightly  and  mix  in  the  ground  stems.  Spread 
over  the  top  of  the  mushrooms,  filling  the  heads  with  stems 
and  put  into  a  buttered  skillet  the  mushrooms.  Cover 
closely  and  steam  12  minutes.  Serve    on  buttered  toast. 

MUSHROOMS  AND  BACON. 

Pick  the  mushrooms  carefully  and  stew  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  little  brown  sauce  or  stock  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  have  ready  some  rounds  of  hot  buttered  toast  and 


VEGETABLES.  109 


crisply  fried  slices  of  bacon;  on  each  slice  of  toast  place 
a  slice  of  bacon  and  on  that  a  mushroom  or  if  small  two  or 
three,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley  and  pour  sauce 
around. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS. 

12  large  mushrooms,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1/4  teaspoon  salt.  Toast, 

%  teaspoon  pepper, 

Wash  fine,  large  mushrooms,  remove  stems  and  place  caps 
in  a  buttered  broiler  and  broil  five  minutes,  cap  side  down, 
during  first  half  of  broiling.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in 
each  cap,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  as  soon  as 
butter  is  melted.  Keep  mushrooms  cap  side  down,  to  keep  in 
the  juices  and  serve  on  rounds  of  buttered  dry  toast. 

CREAM  MUSHROOMS. 

One-half  pound  mushrooms  peeled  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Rinse  in  cold  water  before  using.  Boil  10  minutes  in 
hot  v/ater  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  mushrooms  after 
cooked  to  cream  sauce  made  of  1  cup  of  cream.  One-half 
cup  of  milk  and  the  liquor  in  which  the  mushrooms  were 
cooked.  Two  and  one-half  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.    Salt  to  taste. 

MUSHROOMS  UNDER  CLASS  COVER. 

First  procure  a  small  round  blazer  and  instead  of  a  tin 
cover  use  a  glass  globe  or  cover  for  it.  Second,  butter  your 
dish  very  well,  put  a  large  piece  of  toast  in  the  dish,  pile 
about  twelve  small  peeled  mushrooms  on  top  of  the  toast, 
put  on  a  piece  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter  the  size  of  one-half 
an  egg,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it.  Then  add  one-half 
a  gill  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  wine.  Put  the 
cover  on  and  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  fifteen 
minutes'   actual  cooking.     Should  the  cream  boil  down  too 


no  VEGETABLES. 


quickly  add  a  little  more,  but  it  is  better  not  to  lift  up  the 
cover  until  ready  to  serve,  to  preserve  the  flavor  of  the  mush- 
rooms. (For  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  take  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley,  one  tea- 
spoonful  finely  chopped  onion,  and  juice  of  a  half  a  lemon. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  mix  well.) 


MUSHROOM  SAUTE. 

1  lb.  mushrooms,  }i  teaspoon  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  parsley  chopped. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon,               Toast. 

%  teaspoon  salt. 

Wash,  remove  stems,  peel  caps  and  break  in  pieces,  the 
mushrooms.  Place  in  spider  with  butter  and  seasoning. 
Cover  and  cook  ten  minutes,  tossing  them.  Add  lemon  juice 
and  parsley  and  serve  on  hot  slices  of  toast. 


MACARONI  WITH  TOMATOES  AND  MUSHROOMS. 
f/2  lb.  macaroni,  1  pt.  of  stewed  tomatoes, 

2  qts.  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

2  teaspoons  salt,  mushrooms, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  small  onion,  cut  fine,  Cayenne  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  parsley,  chopped. 

Cup  of  hot  beef  or  chicken     3  tablespoons  grated 
stock,  -  Parmesan  cheese. 

Add  salt  and  t:hen  the  macaroni  to  the  boiling  water.  Let 
boil  20  minutes,  stirring  to  avoid  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle.  Drain  in  colander ;  pour  1  cup  of  cold  water  through 
it;  then  return  to  cleared  kettle. 


VEGETABLES.  m 

CANNED   MUSHROOMS— (In  Ramikins.) 

1  cup  mushrooms,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  3^  teaspoon  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 

1  cup  milk  or  mushroom  1  cup  bread  crumbs, 

liquor,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

10  drops  onion  juice. 

Heat  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  then  gradually  the  mush- 
room liquor  or  milk  or  equal  parts  of  each;  add  mushrooms 
cut  in  pieces,  boil  up,  add  the  parsley  and  serve ;  or  place  in 
individual  or  large  pudding  dish,  with  buttered  crumbs  on 
top,  place  in  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown,  placing  ramikins 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  so  they  will  not  crack.  Serve  hot  with 
a  sprig  of  parsley  in  center  of  each  ramikin. 

BACON  WITH  MACARONI. 

Place  a  couple  of  ounces  of  macaroni  with  a  little  well 
seasoned  stock  in  a  saucepan,  and  simmer  gently  on  the  side 
of  the  fire  until  quite  tender,  which  will  take  about  an  hour, 
but  care  should  be  taken  that  it  is  not  allowed  to  become 
over-done  or  pulpy.  Add  a  little  streaky  bacon,  boiled  and 
cut  into  squares,  and  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Toss  the  pan 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  moments,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper,  then  turn  onto  a  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 

MACARONI  BALLS. 

Cook  enough  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain  and 
measure  two  cups,  two  tablespoons  flour,  big  lump  of  butter 
melted  and  mixed  thoroughly,  add  three-quarters  cup  of  milk, 
mix  and  cook  until  real  stiff  and  add  the  cooked  spaghetti; 
one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  red  pepper,  four  heap- 
ing teaspoons  cheese,  cook  stiff  and  put  in  pan  to  cool,  until 
you  can  make  it  into  ball.  Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  dust  and 
fry  in  hot  grease. 


112  VEGETABLES. 

SPAGHETTI,  EGGS,  AND  CHEESE. 

Baked  spaghetti  with  eggs  and  cheese.  Use  four  hard 
cooked  eggs,  four  ounces  of  spaghetti,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoon fuls  of  grated  cheese,  half 
a  cupful  of  white  sauce,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
the  spaghetti  in  a  pan  of  fast  boiling  water  and  cook  it  until 
tender,  then  drain.  Thickly  butter  a  fireproof  dish,  put  a 
layer  of  spaghetti,  then  one  of  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg;  dust 
these  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Next  put  in  more  spa- 
ghetti, then  morj  slices  of  egg,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is 
full,  ending  with  spaghetti.  Pour  the  white  sauce  over  this 
and  sprinkle  the  cheese  on  it.  Put  the  rest  of  the  butter  in 
little  lumps  on  the  top.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  min- 
utes. Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Decorate 
with  sliced  eggs  and  chopped  parsley. 

MACARONI  ESCALLOPED. 

Break  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  into  short  lengths  and 
cook  until  tender  in  plenty  of  salted  water.  Make  a  sauce 
of  two  level  teaspoon  fuls  each  of  flour  and  butter  mixed 
together  and  one  cupful  of  cream  cooked  together  five  min- 
utes. Add  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  saltspoonful 
of  pepper.  Stir  in  one  egg  and  take  from  the  range  at  once. 
Put  the  macaroni  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate 
layers  with  the  sauce  and  pour  over  all  one-quarter  cupful 
of  milk  and  one-quarter  pound  grated  cheese  melted  together. 
Pour  this  mixture  all  over  the  top,  so  that  it  will  be  well 
distributed  through  the  dish.  Cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

NEAPOLITAN  MACARONI 

Twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  before  serving,  cook  in 
boiling  water  salted  to  taste  some  Neapolitan  macaroni — 
that  is,  large  macaroni.  The  time  of  cooking  may  vary  be- 
tween twelve  and  fifteen  minutes,  according  to  the  quality 


VEGETABLES.  113 

of  the  macaroni.    It  must  not  be  overcooked  and  must  be 
kept  rather  firm. 

As  soon  as  it  is  cooked,  drain  it  in  a  strainer  with  large 
holes  so  as  to  run  off  the  water  completely.  Put  the  maca- 
roni in  the  saucepan,  add  a  little  butter,  sprinkle  the  bot- 
tom of  a  flat  dish  with  Parmesan  cheese,  cover  this  Par- 
mesan cheese  with  a  layer  of  the  estouffade  of  beef  al- 
ready prepared,  arrange  on  top  of  this  a  layer  of  macaroni, 
on  this  another  layer  of  Parmesan  cheese,  and  finally  a 
layer  of  estouffade  until  the  dish  is  filled  up.  Serve  at 
once. 

SPAGHETTI  ITALIENNE. 

}i  lb.  spaghetti.  A  little  nutmeg. 

3  quarts  boiling  water.  1  cup  tomato  sauce. 

1  tablespoon  salt.  2  oz.  grated  Parmesan  or 

2  tablespocns  butter.  Swiss  cheese  or  1  oz. 
%  teaspoon  salt,                                of  each. 

ys  teaspoon  white  pepper, 

Slide  Spaghetti  without  breaking  it,  in  the  boiling  water 
gradually  and  boil  25  minutes.  Drain,  place  butter  in  sauce 
pan,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  let  cook  a  few  minutes,  add 
the  hot  tomato  sauce,  gently  mix  with  a  fork,  then  add 
cheese  and  mix  well  again  with  a  fork  for  one  minute  or 
longer.    Dress  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

SPRING  ONIONS  ON  TOAST. 

Mince  a  bunch  of  onions  rather  fine,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  set  over  a  fire.  When  at  the  boiling  point  drain 
and  cover  again  with  cold  water.  Boil  ten  minutes,  drain, 
season  with  one-half  saltspoon  salt,  one-fourth  saltspoon 
pepper,  a  small  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  and  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Have  rounds  of  buttered  toast  ready  and 
place  a  large  spoonful  of  onion  in  center  of  each.  Odorless 
and  delicious. 


114  VEGETABLES. 


DUTCH  ONION  PIE. 

Slice  six  onions,  fry  in  butter  to  delicate  brown,  add  one- 
half  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  flour,  one  well  beaten  tgg;  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready  a 
baked  pie  crust  in  usual  pie  pan  and  pour  in  onion  mixture. 
Return  to  oven  and  bake  to  good  brown.  White  of  egg  may 
be  added  to  top.  This  is  a  most  excellent  Holland  Dutch 
dish. 

ONIONS  AU  GRATIN. 

Peel  the  onions  and  remove  the  thick  layer  next  the  skin. 
Cook  in  salted  water  three  minutes,  drain  them,  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  until  nearly  done.  Drain  well,  and 
place  in  a  baking  dish;  make  1  cup  white  sauce,  and  pour 
over  the  onions ;  add  a  layer  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs,  and 
bake  ten  minutes  to  heat  through  and  to  brown  the  crumbs. 
Serve  hot. 

SPANISH  ONIONS  STUFFED  WITH  KIDNEY. 

Peel  each  onion  and  take  out  the  center,  then  parboil  in 
salted  water  ten  minutes.  Prepare  a  filling  by  chopping  the 
outer  part  of  a  cooked  veal  or  lamb  kidney,  adding  the 
chopped  onion  centers  and  a  high  seasoning.  The  onion 
cups  are  filled  with  this,  and  they  can  then  be  placed  close 
together  in  a  baking  pan,  a  little  stock  poured  in,  baked  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  cups  are  tender. 

PEAS  WITH  BACON. 

Four  slices  of  bacon  cut  in  small  pieces  and  one  small 
onion  cut  fine.  Cook  together  until  a  light  brown.  Add 
half  a  peck  of  green  peas,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  just 
enough  warm  water  to  cover  peas ;  cook  until  tender  and 
serve.     Canned  peas  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


VEGETABLES.  115 

LYONNAISE   POTATOES    (No.   1.) 

Cook  one  onion  thickly  sliced  in  three  tablespoons  butter 
until  delicately  browned.  Remove  onion  and  keep  in  a  warm 
place.  Add  three  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  slices; 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  stir  until  well  mixed  with 
butter.  Press  to  one  side  of  spider  and  let  brown  richly 
underneath,  then  sprinkle  onions  over  potatoes;  let  heat 
thoroughly;  turn  on  a  hot  serving  platter,  top  side  down; 
sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley.  Cooking  the  onion  sep- 
arately lessens  the  danger  of  burning. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES  (No.  2.) 

1  pt.  cold,  boiled  potatoes,         2  tablespoons  beef  dripping 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  or  butter. 

Speck  of  pepper,  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley. 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion, 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  slices,  season  with  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Fry  the  onions  in  the  dripping  till  light  brown,  put  in  the 
potato  and  cook  till  it  has  taken  up  the  fat.  Add  the  chopped 
parsley  and  serve. 

DUCHESSE  POTATOES. 

Mashed  potatoes,  1  ^gg. 

Take  freshly  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes  or  some  that 
are  left  over,  add  to  them  the  beaten  yolk  of  ^gg,  place  in  a 
greased  tin  and  form  in  balls,  hearts  or  flat  cakes,  brush  with 
the  beaten  white,  and  brown  in  oven. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE. 

Hash  eight  cold  boiled  potatoes,  mix  them  with  one- 
half  cupful  of  cream,  half  an  ounce  of  good  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  pepper  and  a  very  small  dash  of  grated  nutmeg. 
Place  them  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  American  cheese,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
bread  crumbs,  a  large  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  and 
brown  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes. 


116  VEGETABLES. 


SOUFFLE  POTATOES. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  drop  them  into  ice-water.  Slice 
them  then  lengthwise  in  rather  thin  slices  and  drop  the 
slices  into  more  ice-water.  Have  over  the  fire  two  frying 
pans  containing  frying  fat,  only  have  one  pan  in  a  hotter 
place  than  the  other.  Take  the  potatoes  from  the  water, 
wipe  quickly,  drop  into  the  pan  that  is  in  the  cooler  place 
to  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  then  skim  them  out  and  drop 
into  the  pan  with  the  very  hot  fat  in,  when  they  will  souffle 
or  expand  so  remarkably  that  it  will  seem  a  little  magic 
has  taken  place  on  the  kitchen  range. 

HUNGARIAN  POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  about  two  cupfuls  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  stir 
through  them  two  eggs  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Now  roll  this  out,  strew  it  thickly  with  fried  bread 
crumbs,  roll  over  tv/ice  as  you  would  a  jelly  roll,  press  it 
down  fiat  and  cut  into  squares.  Press  the  edges  of  these 
squares  together,  drop  the  dumplings  into  salted  boiling 
water,  and  allow  them  to  cook  for  ten  minutes;  then  take 
them  from  the  water  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  them  in  a 
colander,  then  place  them  in  a  dish,  putting  this  in  the  oven 
to  keep  hot.  Fry  butter  to  a  golden  brown,  pour  this  over 
the  dumplings  and  serve  at  once.  Sugar  and  cinnamon 
may  be  strewn  over  them  in  addition  to  the  butter.  They 
are  excellent  either  way. 

POTATO   PUFFS. 

2  cups  grated,  boiled  potatoes,  ~  1  cup  flour. 
Salt,  Sour  cream, 

Sour  cream  enough  to  make  it  possible  to  knead  the  mix- 
ture. Roll  it  out  thin  as  you  can  and  cut  with  biscuit  cut- 
ter.    Fry  in  hot  lard.     Serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  n? 


POTATO  BALLS. 

1  pint  potato  balls,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 

Pare  potato  and  throw  into  pan  of  cold  water.  With 
French  vegetable  cutter,  cut  balls,  or  cut  into  cubes  and  let 
stand  in  cold,  salted  water  until  wanted.  Scraps  may  be 
used  for  soup  or  mashed  potatoes.  Heat  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  the  potato  balls,  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly,  shak- 
ing pan  over  fire  to  cook  them  evenly.  Test  with  darning 
needle.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  salt,  chopped  parsley,  or, 
they  may  be  boiled,  drained  and  Maitre  d'  Hotel  Butter, 
added ;  or  fry  in  deep  hot  fat,  as  French  fried  potatoes. 

POTATOES  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

For  6  Persons.  Time  of  Preparation:  1^  hour. 

13^  lb.  potatoes.  2  oz.  onions. 

1  quart  stock.  2  tablespoons  ful  flour. 

3  oz.  butter.  A  few  tomatoes. 

Salt  to  taste. 
Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  skins,  then  peel  and  slice  them. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  heat  the  sliced  onions  in  it 
for  3  minutes.  Then  add  the  tomatoes  and  flour,  and  after 
another  5  minutes,  the  stock  and  boil  till  the  tomatoes  are 
quite  soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  salt  to  taste  and  pour 
over  the  slices  of  potatoes,  while  the  latter  are  still  warm, 
boiling  up  once  again  before  serving. 

PIQUANT  POTATOES. 

For  6  Persons.  Time  of  Preparation:  1^  hour. 

2  lbs.  potatoes.  1  tablespoon  ful  flour. 
1^   lb.  bacon.                               Vinegar. 

Sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 
Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  skins.     Cut  the  bacon  into  dice 


118  VEGETABLES. 


and  put  into  a  saucepan  on  a  good  fire  until  the  fat  has 
melted.  Then  brown  the  flour  in  it  with  a  little  sugar,  add 
water,  and  boil  up  to  make  a  thickish  sauce.  Place  the  pota- 
toes, cut  into  thick  slices,  into  this,  bring  once  more  to  the 
boil,  flavor  with  vinegar,  salt  and  sugar,  and  serve. 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

6  medium  sized  potatoes,  %  cup  water, 

y^  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter. 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  boiling, 
salted  water.  Drain,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  put  in  a 
buttered  pan.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  three  minutes  the 
sugar  and  water ;  add  butter.  Brush  potatoes  with  syrup  and 
bake  15  minutes,  basting  twice  with  remaining  syrup. 

SWEET  POTATOES— Southern  Style. 
4  boiled  sweet  potatoes.  Lemon  juice, 

%  lb.  butter,  14  cup  brown  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  water. 

Skin  boiled  potatoes  and  quarter.  Place  in  baking  dish, 
with  butter  on  top;  sprinkle  with  the  brown  sugar;  add  the 
water  and  a  little  lemon  juice.    Brown  in  oven  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  PEPPERS. 

Cold  rice  and  stewed  tomatoes  can  be  made  into  a  delic- 
ious filling  for  peppers  by  seasoning  highly  with  spices  and  a 
little  onion.  These  can  either  be  baked  directly  or  can  first 
be  fried  in  hot  butter  or  olive  oil,  then  put  in  a  baking  dish 
covered  with  a  cupful  of  white  stock  and  baked  for  half  an 
hour  or  more.  All  baked  peppers  are  better  when  cooked 
in  stock. 

SWISS  RAREBIT. 
To  a  third  of  a  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  add  two-thirds 
of  lentil  pulp,  half  a  cup  of  cream,  a  grated  onion,  a  few 
stalks  of  grated  celery  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Mix 


VEGETABLES.  119 

well  together,  and  spread  a  thick  layer  of  nut  butter  over 
the  top  and  bake  brown. 

RICE  WITH  WATERCRESS. 

Boil  tender  one  cupful  of  rice  in  salted  water,  drain  and 
let  steam  for  five  minutes.  Meantime,  wash,  dry  and  break 
two  bunches  of  watercress.  Fry  until  crisp  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Arrange  with  rice  in  a  deep  dish  in  alternate 
layers,  with  rice  at  top  and  bottom.  Scatter  grated  cheese 
over  the  last  layer. 

RICE  CROQUETTES  WITH  JELLY. 

^  cup  rice.  Yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly 

Y2  cup  boiling  water,  beaten, 

1  cup  scalded  milk,  54  cup  fine  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Grated  rind  of  Yi  lemon. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 
Process:  Wash  rice  thoroughly;  add  to  boiling  water 
with  salt;  cover  and  let  cook  until  the  rice  has  absorbed 
water.  To  this  add  scalded  milk;  stir  lightly  with  a  fork, 
cover  and  steam  until  rice  is  tender.  Remove  from  range, 
add  ^^^  yolks,  butter  and  sugar ;  spread  on  a  shallow  plate 
to  cool.  Shape  in  balls  the  size  of  an  ^%^,  roll  in  fine  cracker 
crumbs  and  make  a  depressipn  in  each  to  form  a  small 
saucer;  dip  in  ^^'g  and  again  in  crumbs.  Each  croquette 
should  be  well  crumbed.  Fry  in  hot  fat,  drain  on  brown  pa- 
per and  place  a  cube  of  jelly  one-inch  square  in  each  cro- 
quette.   Serve  with  game. 

SPINACH. 

One-half  peck  spinach  cleaned  and  washed  very  care- 
fully five  or  six  times,  then  boil  tender,  drain  all  the  water 
off,  chop  very  fine,  put  a  piece  of  sweet  butter  with  j^ 
tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  in  a  sauce  pan,  stir  until  smooth 
and  hot,  then  put  spinach  in  that  and  make  thin  (not  too) 


120  VEGETABLES. 


with  sweet  cream.  Let  boil  slowly  about  10  to  15  minutes. 
Boil  an  egg  hard  and  serve  on  top  of  spinach  in  quarters  or 
grate  the  egg. 

SPINACH  COOKED  IN  BUTTER. 

Cook  the  spinach  leaves  in  a  pan  with  salted  water. 
Wash  them  freely  with  water  to  remove  the  sand  which 
they  may  contain  completely.  Drain  them,  press  out  the 
moisture  and  chop  them  up  very  fine.  Heal  some  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  the  chopped  spinach,  stir  them  up  with  a 
long  wooden  spoon,  adding  a  little  butter.  This  will  work 
out  the  moisture.  Season  them  to  taste  with  salt  and  a 
little  scraped  nutmeg.  Finished  by  adding  an  ounce  and 
a  half  of  fine  butter. 

SPINACH  "AU  NATUREL." 

Having  cooked  the  spinach  in  salt  water  as  before,  wash 
and  drain  the  leaves  carefully,  then  remove  all  water  and 
give  them  a  few  strokes  with  the  knife  without  chopping 
them  up.  Put  them  into  a  frying  pan  in  which  you  have 
heated  some  butter;  salt  to  taste  and  serve  very  hot. 

This  method  of  preparing  spinach  is  very  much  appre- 
ciated in  Italy,  where  they  add  filets  of  anchovies  to  it. 

SPINACH  WITHOUT  WATER. 

The  following  method  is  very  little  known  and  has  the 
advantages  of  preserving  all  the  nutriment  in  the  spinach 
and  avoiding  the  use  of  boiling  water. 

Having  washed  and  drained  the  spinach  very  thorough- 
ly, cut  it  up  in  coarse  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  in 
which  you  have  heated  three  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter  to 
every  pound  of  spinach.  Add  salt,  grated  nutmeg  and  cook 
sharply. 


VEGETABLES.  121 


BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Take  as  many  ripe  tomatoes  as  desired,  peel  and  slice  very 
thick,  and  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish;  season  liberally  with 
salt,  pepper  and  two  ounces  of  butter;  cover  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  then  pour  over  a  little  butter  clarified  by  heat- 
ing, and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  at  least  a  half  hour.  Serve 
hot. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  RICE. 

Select  a  dozen  round  tomatoes  of  the  same  size.  Re- 
move a  piece  about  an  inch  in  diameter  from  the  blossom  end 
of  each  and  remove  the  seeds.  Cook  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart 
of  well-seasoned  broth,  with  half  a  green  pepper  cut  fine. 
When  the  rice  is  nearly  tender,  add  half  a  cup  of  butter 
and  mix  thoroughly,  but  carefully,  to  avoid  breaking  the 
grains.  Fill  the  tomato  shells  with  the  rice;  put  back  the 
covers,  set  in  a  baking  pan,  stem  end  down,  brush  over  the 
outside  with  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  and  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  to  a  serving-dish  and 
pour  around  them  a  cup  of  highly-seasoned  tomato  sauce. 

TOMATOES  a  la  STANTON. 

Take  one  tomato  for  each  person.  Scoop  out  and  break 
an  egg  without  disturbing  the  yolk  into  the  tomato  and  dust 
with  pepper,  salt,  bread  crumbs  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Ar- 
range in  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  oven  to  bake  until  the 
eggs  are  set.     Serve  hot  on  buttered  toast. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

8  fine,  firm  tomatoes,  1  medium  sized  onion, 

y2  ounce  butter,  6  fresh  mushrooms, 

5<  ib.  chicken  livers,  j^2  cup  bread  crumbs, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  season,  Parsley. 

Wash  and  dry  tomatoes.  Cut  off  top  without  detaching 


122  VEGETABLES. 


if  possible,  so  it  will  serve  as  a  cover.  Scoop  out  inside  of 
each  and  place  in  cool  place  until  later,  having  seasoned  in- 
side with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Chop  onion  fine;  place  in 
saucepan  with  butter  and  cook  for  three  minutes  to  brown, 
being  careful  not  to  burn.  Add  mushrooms  and  the  chicken 
livers  chopped.  Season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
for  three  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Now  add  inside  of 
tomatoes,  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley.  Cook  two 
minutes  longer,  and  place  in  bowl  to  cool.  Stuff  emptied 
tomatoes  with  mixture,  close  down  covers,  and  cook  for  18 
minutes.  Serve  hot.  Sausage  meat  or  chicken  chopped  may 
be  used  in  place  of  the  livers. 

TOMATO  AND  CHEESE. 

Put  a  slice  of  tomato  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce  and  cover  ex- 
actly with  a  very  thin  round  of  American  cheese;  spread 
with  mayonnaise,  add  another  slice  of  tomato  and  put  a 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  top. 

TOMATO  STUFFED  WITH  SARDINES. 

Select  large  ripe  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  and  pare  them 
carefully  with  a  sharp  knife.  Set  on  the  ice  to  harden  and 
cut  out  the  hearts  neatly,  leaving  the  walls  whole.  Pre- 
pare the  filling  by  skimming  boneless  sardines  and  laying 
them  upon  tissue  paper  to  absorb  the  oil.  Then  scrape  as 
you  would  pick  codfish  for  balls,  and  work  in  a  little  lemon 
juice  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.  Toss  and  work  with  a 
silver  fork  until  smooth  and  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mix- 
ture.   The  combination  of  flavors  is  very  pleasant. 

HOT  SLAW. 
Pick  off  the  bad  leaves  from  head  of  small  cabbage,  slice 
or  cut  the  cabbage  very  thin,  scald  it  5  minutes  in  2  quarts 
of  boiling  water  and  drain  through  a  colander.  Mix  it  well 
with  a  sauce  made  of  ^  cup  of  hot  vinegar,  1  cup  of  sour 
cream,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste. 


Salad 


HOW  TO  MAKE  A  SALAD  AND  HOW  TO  SERVE  IT. 

First,  all  materials  should  be  secured  fresh,  they  must  be 
well  cleansed,  washed  without  handling,  and  all  water  re- 
moved as  much  as  possible.  The  salad  should  be  made  imme- 
diately before  the  meal  and  be  kept  cool  until  wanted.  Never 
place  a  salad  in  the  ice-box  where  meat  is  kept. 

If  no  objection,  a  garlic  flavor  is  healthy  and  improves 
all  salads  very  much.  A  slight  rubbing  of  the  salad  bowl 
with  a  clove  of  garlic  or  the  crust  of  a  small  piece  of  bread 
rubbed  with  garlic  and  put  in  the  salad  bowl  will  improve 
the  flavor  of  a  moderate-sized  salad. 

Chopped  fresh  tarragon,  chervils,  or  chives  give  a  fine 
taste  to  all  salads. 

The  yolk  of  an  egg  will  give  a  good  body  and  improve 
all  salads.  To  make  a  good  dressing  you  must  have  good 
oil  and  vinegar.  Olive  oil  and  red  wine  vinegar  are  pre- 
ferred. If  you  cannot  get  red  wine  vinegar  you  can  add  a 
wine  glass  of  red  wine  to  a  quart  of  dressing,  which  Es 
made  of  white  wine  or  cider  vinegar.  If  you  run  short  of 
oil  use  melted  butter,  cream  or  some  gravy  of  some  kind  of 
roast  meat,  mix  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  If  you  run  short 
of  vinegar  the  juice  of  two  lemons  to  half  a  wine  glass  of 
red  wine  will  answer  the  purpose.  If  your  oil  gets  cloudy 
or  frozen,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  and  it  will 
clear  inside  of  twenty-four  hours. 

SALAD  POINTERS. 

Potato  salad  is  best  made  of  warm  potatoes. 

Mix  salt  thoroughly  through  your  minced  potatoes  before 
adding  the  dressing  to  prevent  flat  taste. 

Wash  the  lettuce  under  cold  running  water  and  it  will  be 
crisp* 


124  SALADS. 


Vegetables  for  salads  should  be  thoroughly  dry  or  the 
dressing  will  not  stick. 

All  salads  should  be  thoroughly  chilled. 

Stir  mayonnaise  with  an  egg  beater  if  hurried. 

For  smooth  dressing,  blend  with  a  fork,  not  a  spoon. 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together  dry  for  dressing,  then 
add  boiling  water  and  stir. 

If  dressing  curdles,  add  cold  water  and  stir  quickly. 

If  the  vinegar  is  heated  before  adding  to  the  dressing, 
it  will  not  curdle. 

If  mustard  is  mixed  with  milk  instead  of  water  it  will 
not  dry  out. 

If  a  slit  is  made  through  the  cork  of  the  olive  bottle  and 
the  bottle  propped  at  the  right  angle,the  oil  may  be  dropped 
into  the  dressing  without  constant  personal  attention. 

A  Spanish  proverb  says  that  to  make  salad  requires  four 
persons:  "A  spendthrift  for  oil,  a  miser  for  vinegar,  a 
lawyer  for  salt,  and  a  madman  to  stir  it  up." 

ALSATIAN  SALAD. 

Arrange  the  usual  bed  of  lettuce.  Cook  three  frankfurter 
sausages  for  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Chill  these  and 
cut  into  very  thin  slices.  Slice  four  medium-size  cold  potatoes 
and  one  small  white  onion,  half  a  dozen  firm  pickles  and  stir 
this  mixture  lightly  with  four  tablespoons  of  French  dressing. 
Serve  on  the  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

EGG  SALAD. 

Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  half  lengths,  rub  their  yolks 
through  a  sieve,  mix  with  equal  weight  of  Parmesan 
cheese,  season  with  chopped  chives,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
enough  butter  to  moisten.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  mix- 
ture, serve  on  lettuce,  and  garnish  with  sliced  tomatoes. 

SCRAMBLED  EGG  SALAD. 

Select  evenly  sized  tomatoes,  cut  in  halves,  scoop  out 


SALADS.  125 


the  pulp,  and  fill  the  hollows  with  scrambled  eggs  well  sea- 
soned. When  cold,  spread  enough  mayonnaise  on  each  to 
cover  the  egg,  and  put  a  thick  layer  of  aspic  on  top.  Ar- 
range neatly  in  a  circle  on  a  cold  dish,  and  garnish  with 
beets  and  gherkins  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Fill  the  center  with 
lettuce  and  sliced  tomatoes,  all  cut  in  fine  strips,  and  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  oil,  and  vinegar.    Serve  very  cold. 

ITALIAN  EGG  SALAD. 

Is  a  particularly  suitable  salad  for  supper.  It  is  light  and 
yet  contains  a  good  deal  of  nourishment  in  the  eggs,  maca- 
roni, and  cream. 

Required:  Six  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  good  lettuce,  a  round 
of  toast,  four  tablespoon fuls  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  four 
tablespoon fuls  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, three  ounces  of  macaroni,  a  few  red  chillies  and  capers. 

Shell  the  eggs  and  cut  them  in  thick  rings.  Wash  and 
lightly  dry  the  lettuce,  then  pull  it  in  pieces.  Trim  ofl  the 
crusts  from  the  toast,  and  put  it  in  the  salad  bowl. 

Whisk  the  cream  until  it  is  thick,  then  stir  into  it  the  may- 
onnaise sauce  and  parsley.  Have  the  macaroni  ready  boiled 
until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water;  cut  it  into  short  lengths. 

Put  a  layer  of  lettuce  on  the  toast,  then  one  of  eggs,  next 
macaroni,  and  then  some  of  the  dressing;  continue  until  all 
the  ingredients  are  used. 

EGG  LILY  SALAD. 

Drop  hard-boiled  eggs  into  cold  water  after  taking 
them  out  of  the  shells,  and  cut  narrow  strips  from  the 
small  end  very  nearly  to  the  large  end  of  the  whites.  Rub 
up  each  yolk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  of  vinegar, 
one  each  of  mustard  and  salt  and  pepper.  Form  into  balls 
and  put  back  into  the  whites.  Serve  in  moulds  of  spinach 
or,  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 


126  SALADS. 


CHICKEN  AND  LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Half  chicken. 

Half  pound  tinned  peas. 

One  tablespoon ful  chopped  parsley  and  olives. 

One  pound  tinned  lobster. 

Mayonnaise  dressing. 

One  quarter  pint  oil. 

Remove  the  meat  from  bones  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces. 
Sprinkle  over  with  lemon  juice  and  stand  on  one  side  for 
thirty  minutes.  Then  mix  with  peas,  stir  the  chopped  parsley 
and  olives  into  the  mayonnaise  and  mix  all  well  together. 
Garnish  with  gherkins  and  tiny  onions.  Asparagus  may  be 
substituted  for  peas. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Make  the  chicken  jelly  and  set  it  in  a  border  mould. 
Chop  three  bunches  of  celery,  and  mix  with  one  can  of  as- 
paragus tips.  When  the  jelly  is  cold,  set  on  a  platter,  and 
heap  the  celery  and  asparagus  in  the  center.  Slice  four 
hard  boiled  eggs  and  lay  around  the  jelly  in  little  piles,  alter- 
nating with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

This  IS  also  nice  made  with  fruit  jelly  with  fruit  in 
center,  omitting  the  egg  and  using  French  dressing  made 
with  lemon  instead  of  the  mayonnaise. 

CHICKEN,   SWEETBREADS   AND   MUSHROOM 
SALAD. 

1  pint  cooked  chicken  cut         1  cup  mushrooms, 
in  small  pieces,  1  cup  mayonnaise, 

1  cup  sweetbreads  in  small       Lettuce  leaves, 
pieces, 
Have  everything  very  cold.     Mix  the  first  three  ingredi- 
ents with  the  mayonnaise,  and  place  on  lettuce  leaves  on  small 
plates. 

Note. — Chicken  and  sweetbreads,  dressed  with  mayon- 
naise, is  also  a  good  combination. 


SALADS.  127 


ANCHOVY  SALAD. 

Shred  equal  quantities  of  anchovies  and  lettuce,  mix 
into  it  half  the  quantity  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  with  chopped 
onion,  and  cover  with  equal  parts  of  olive  oil  and  vinegar 
thoroughly  mixed.     Serve  on  leaf  lettuce. 

APPLE  SALAD  WITH  HERRINGS  OR  SARDELLEN. 

1  lb.  apples,  4    oz.    chopped    Sardellen   or 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  pickled  herrings, 

Yz  teaspoonful    chopped    on-     4  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil, 
onion,  1  teaspoonful  capers, 

Yz  gill  vinegar,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Soak  the  herrings  or  Sardellen,  then  chop  them  finely  and 

mix  with  the  oil,  vinegar,  hard-boiled  eggs  (chopped  finely) 

and  the  capers.     Add  the  apples,  cut  into  tiny  dice,  flavor  with 

pepper  and  sugar,  and  mix  all  thoroughly. 

CLAM  SALAD. 

Boil  two  dozen  medium  clams  in  a  pint  of  water  ten  min- 
utes only;  use  the  broth  for  a  soup  by  whisking  into  it  a  half 
a  pint  of  warm  milk  containing  a  whisked  ^g%\  heat,  but  do 
not  boil,  and  serve. 

Chop  the  clams,  not  too  fine,  put  them  into  a  salad  bowl 
with  one-third  each  of  potato  and  cold  fish ;  lettuce  or  water- 
cress may  or  may  not  be  used.  Hard-boiled  eggs  may  be 
used  if  desired. 

CRAB  SALAD  EN  COQUILLE. 

To  the  crab  meat  add  a  little  minced  cold  boiled  cab- 
bage, a  pinch  of  mustard,  and  mix  with  cream  salad  dress- 
ing. Fill  the  crab  shells,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  garnish 
with  chopped  yolks  and  whites  of  tg%  alternately. 

SCOTTISH  SALAD. 

Cover  a  platter  with  lettuce  leaves.  Arrange  a  circle 
of  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  around  the  edge,  the  slices  over- 
lapping  each    other.      Heap    in   the    center   two   parts    of 


128 SALADS. 

chopped  celery  to  one  part  of  flakes  of  salmon,  which  has 
been  thoroughly  mixed  with  oil,  vinegar,  and  salt.  Pour 
mayonnaise  dressing  over  all,  and  garnish  with  stuffed  olives 
and  capers. 

HERRING  SALAD. 
4  pickled  herrings,  2  tablespoonsful  Tarragon 

1   lb.  pickled  cucumbers.  vinegar. 

1  lb.  apples.  1  teaspoon ful  German  mustard 

A  pinch  of  pepper.  8  tablespoonsful  salad  oil. 

A  pinch  ground  ginger,  1  tablespoon  ful  chopped  onion. 

10  oz.  boiled  potatoes. 
Soak  the  herrings  4  to  6  liours,  changing  the  water  fre- 
quently. Then  skin  them  and  cut  up  into  small  dice,  pouring 
over  them  vinegar  and  3  tablespoon  ful  s  water.  Peel  the  po- 
tatoes, apples  and  pickled  cucumbers,  and  cut  also  into  dice, 
Mix  all  well  together  with  the  oil,  Tarragon  vinegar,  Ger- 
man mustard,  ginger  and  chopped  onion.  Sprinkle  over  with 
pepper  and  add  sugar  if  desired.  The  salad  may  be  varied  by 
the  addition  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  beetroot  that  has  been  soaked 
in  vinegar,  and  Y^  pound  cold  veal,  all  cut  into  small  dice. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Remove  the  meat  of  one  large  lobster  from  the  shell, 
and  cut  into  small  pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
mix  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish  with  tufts  of 
water  cress,  sliced  ^^'^^  the  yolk  taken  out,  and  its  place 
filled  with  lobster  coral  and  sliced  cucumber,  and  sliced 
onion  rings  filled  with  caviar. 

SALMON  SALAD  JELLIED. 

Take  a  pint  of  canned  salmon,  drain,  and  remove  the 
skin  and  bones.  Mince  fine,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley, 


SALADS.  129 


and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  together  and  bind  with  any  prepared 
salad  dressing,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered  gelatin  dis- 
solved in  a  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  water.  Fill  small  moulds 
and  set  them  on  the  ice  to  chill  quickly.  Turn  out  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  with  sliced  olives  and  serve  with 
cucumber  sauce  or  mayonnaise. 

SARDINE  SALAD. 

One  box  best  sardines,  twelve  small  sour  pickles,  four 
square  crackers,  chop  together,  moisten  with  juice  of  half 
a  lemon.  Delicious  served  on  round  pieces  of  toast  as  an 
appetizer  at  dinner  or  as  a  salad  on  lettuce  leaves. 

FISH  SALAD. 

Boil  tender  a  small  whitefish,  trout,  or  pike.  Chop  fine, 
add  same  quantity  of  chopped  celery,  moisten  with  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  of  olive  oil,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  two  of  pepper,  and  one  of  salt,  two  of 
sugar,  five  of  cream,  and  enough  vinegar  to  make  the  right 
consistency.     Garnish  with  celery  tops. 

SHAD  ROE  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

A  Shad  Roe,  1  fresh  cucumber, 

1  sliced  onion,  French  dressing, 

1  bay   leave.  Mayonnaise, 

1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Lettuce. 

Let  shad  roe  simmer  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water  with 
the  vinegar  added.  Cool,  cut  in  slices  and  cubes  and  pour 
over  it  a  French  dressing ;  add  cucumber,  peeled,  cut  in  cubes, 
and  mayonnaise,  to  moisten.  Place  salad  on  a  bed  of  crisp 
lettuce  leaves;  garnish  with  sliced  cucumbers. 

TUNNY  FISH  SALAD. 

To  one  small  can  of  tunny  fish  cut  up  one  large  tomato, 
one  stalk  of  celery,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  small  bottle 
of  Snyder's  mayonnaise,  mix  and  season  to  taste. 


130  SALADS. 


FISH  SALAD  IN  JELLY. 

2  cups  cold  boiled  fish,  cut     >^  package    granulated    gela- 

in  dice,  tine, 

y2  cup    celery,    cut   in    small     ^  cup  cold  water, 

pieces,  or  finely  shredded     ^  cup  vinegar, 

cabbage.  Juice  of  one  lemon, 

Yi.  cup    pickle   or    cucumber,       1  pint  of  boiling  water, 

cut  in  slices,  ^  cup  sugar, 

Yz  cup  apple  or  pear,  cut  in       1  teaspoon  salt. 

dice. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  2  minutes ;  add  vinegar,  lemon 
juice,  boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt.  Strain  and  when  begin- 
ning to  set,  add  remaining  ingredients.  Turn  into  mould  or 
small  moulds  and  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  Mayon- 
naise dressing,  if  desired. 

SWEETBREADS  AND  MUSHROOM 

3  lbs.  sweetbreads.  Whites  of  6  hard  cooked  eggs 
2  cans  mushrooms,  cut   in   half -inch   dice, 

1  cup  walnuts,  blanched,  2  cups  boiled  mayonnaise, 

4  large  stalks  celery,  diced,       Yolks  of  6  hard  cooked  eggs. 

Follow  directions  for  Boiled  Sweetbreads,  adding  a  small 
onion,  carrot  and  celery  to  water  for  flavor. 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD 

Take  two  pounds  of  veal  sweetbread,  and  boil  until  j 
tender  in  salt  water.  When  cold,  break  into  small  pieces 
and  remove  the  membrane.  To  one  quart  of  sweetbread 
add  a  pint  of  celery  torn  in  small  pieces,  and  one  cupful  of 
walnut  meats.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve 
with  salted  wafer  crackers  on  lettuce  leaf. 

SALAD  OF  CALVES  BRAINS. 

Brains  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  Wash  in  cold  water 
without  breaking.     Parboil  for  about  ten  minutes  in  a  quart 


SALADS.  131 


of  boiling  water,  salted,  to  which  half  a  teacup  of  vinegar 
has  been  added.  When  done  throw  the  brains  into  very  cold 
water;  this  whitens  and  hardens  them.  They  may  be  made 
at  once  into  a  salad,  or  will  keep  until  the  next  day  on  ice. 
Remove  all  strings,  cut  up  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  hickory- 
nut.  Put  a  heaping  tablespoon ful  of  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  very  finely  minced  onion.  Cook  a 
minute,  then  add  the  brains.  Gently  saute  the  brains  for 
ten  minutes,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  burn.  Add  one 
saltspoonful  salt,  a  saltspoonful  black  pepper,  a  pinch  of 
rolled  mace,  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool.  Add  about  the 
same  bulk  of  potatoes  that  have  been  boiled  just  done  enough 
to  slice,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  minced  parsley; 
mix  lightly  together  with  a  fork.  A  half  pound  of  brains 
should  be  used. 

MUSHROOM  SALAD. 
2  cans  mushrooms,  2  times  (bulk  of  other  ingre- 

3^  can  peas,  dients),  celery, 

1/3  tablespoon  butter,  1  head  lettuce, 

54  cup  Cream  Mayonnaise. 
Drain,  then   fry  mushrooms  until  delicate  brown,   usmg 
butter  and  salt;  cool,  drain  peas  quite  dry,  add  to  mushrooms. 
Cut  celery  enough  to  measure  twice  the  bulk.     Fold  in  with 
Mayonnaise.     Serve  on  lettuce.     For  six  people. 

MOULDED  FISH  SALAD  WITH  CUCUMBERS. 

1>2  lbs.  cold  boiled  halibut,         1>^  cup  boiling  firh  jitock, 

}i.  cup  Mayonnaise,  water, 

1       tablespoon  granulated  1       pint  cream,  whipped, 

gelatine,  1       large  fresh  cucumber, 

^  cup    cold    fish    stock    or     French  dressing, 
water. 

Follow  recipe  for  boiled  fish.  Bone  and  cut  or  break 
into  ^  inch  cubes.  Make  %.  cup  of  any  desired  Mayon- 
naise.    Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  fish  stock  or  water,  add 


132  SALADS. 


the  boiling  hot  fish  stock,  water  or  milk,  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved. Let  cool.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  the 
Mayonnaise.  Beat,  using  an  egg  beater,  until  frothy,  then 
fold  in  the  cream,  beaten  stiff,  and  lastly  stir  in  lightly  the 
halibut  or  any  fish  desired. 

MOULDED  SWEETBREAD  AND  CUCUMBER 
SALAD. 

%  cup  sweetbreads,  in  cubes,     1       teaspoon  granulated  gel- 

1  slice  onion,  atine, 

A  bit  of  bay  leaf,  1       tablespoon  cold  water, 

A  blade  of  mace,  1^  tablespoons  vinegar, 

%  cup  cucumber,  cubes,  Lettuce  leaves, 

J^  cup  boiling  water,  French  dressing. 

Parboil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads,  adding  to  the  boiling  salted 
water  the  onion,  bay  leaf  and  mace.     Cool  and  cut  into  cubes. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  add  the 
boiling  water,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Let  stand  to  slightly 
harden.  Rinse  a  ring  or  other  mould  in  very  cold  water,  place 
a  few  spoonfuls  in  bottom  of  mould,  add  a  layer  of  sweet- 
bread and  cucumber  dice,  then  a  layer  of  gelatine  mixture, 
again  the  cucumber  and  sweetbread  cubes  and  so  on  until  all 
is  used;  leaving  the  layer  of  jelly  on  top.  Serve  on  large 
platter  with  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves  on  which  is  arranged 
a  circle  of  chilled,  sliced  tomatoes;  cover  with  French  dress- 
ing. If  ring  mould  is  used  fill  center  with  Sweetbread  salad 
and  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  thin  and  cut  off  the  stem  end, 
scrape  out  the  inside.  Mix  the  pulp  thoroughly  with 
chopped  anchovies  and  gherkins,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  and  put  back  in  shells.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf, 
and  pour  over  mayonnaise. 


SALADS.  133 


CUCUMBER  FRANCAISE  SALAD. 

Peel  one  large  cucumber  and  let  it  stand  in  salt  water 
for  several  hours.  Place  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  and  slice  thin 
without  removing  slices,  so  the  cucumber  will  appear  as 
whole.  Cover  with  mayonnaise,  and  sprinkle  over  green 
peppers  chopped  fine. 

ORNAMENTED  CUCUMBER. 

Peel  a  pickled  cucumber  (Salzgurke),  cut  it  in  half  length- 
wise, remove  the  seeds  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Fill  the  cavity 
with  ham  (cut  into  short,  thin  strips),  hard-boiled  eggs  (cut 
into  quarters),  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Pour  some 
aspic  over  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  till  set. 

This  may  be  varied  by  the  substitution  of  chopped  Sar- 
dellen,  herring,  salmon  or  veal. 

Serve  with  Remoulade  dressing  or  Mayonnaise. 

I  LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Bury  a  clove  of  garlic  in  a  two-inch  square  of  bread  and 
place  in  the  bottom  of  a  bowl.  Fill  with  white  leaves  and 
the  heart  of  head  lettuce,  and  pour  over  French  dressing. 

FRENCH  ENDIVE  SALAD. 

Wash  the  endive  thoroughly  and  let  it  stand  in  ice  cold 
water  for  an  hour.     Pour  over  French  dressing-  made  red 


fc» 


with  paprika. 


LETTUCE  SALAD  (STUFFED). 

Wash  one  small  head  of  lettuce  for  each  person,  and 
remove  the  heart  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  head. 
Chop  very  fine  one  bunch  of  celery,  one  cucumber,  and  one 
small  onion,  and  mix  well  with  French  dressing,  stuff  the 
heads  of  lettuce  with  this  mixture,  and  serve. 


134  SALADS. 


ENDIVE  SALAD. 

1  head  endive,  4  hard  ccx)ked  eggs, 

French  salad  dressing,  1  pt.  boiled  potatoes,  sliced. 

Wash  and  dry  endive  picked  off  the  green  outer  leaves 
and  use  only  the  light-colored  feathery  leaves.  Arrange  on 
salad  dish  with  white  leaves  in  center.  Place  eggs,  cut  into 
quarters  lengthwise,  around  carefully,  and  mix  with  potatoes 
and  pour  over  all  French  dressing. 

ROMAINE  SALAD. 

Take  the  heart  of  a  Romaine,  don't  wash,  but  wipe  with 
a  clean  towel,  one-half  pint  of  cream,  mix  in  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  This  is  the  proper  way  to  eat  Romaine,  and  the 
only  way  it  is  served  in  Paris,  especially  in  private  families. 
No  dressing. 

CABBAGE  SALAD  a  la  CALAIS. 

First  make  a  dressing  in  the  following  manner:  Take 
two  raw  eggs,  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and  two  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  dry  mustard  and  a  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper  or  paprika  and  about  five  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  mix  well  and  beat  with  a  fork.  Then  take 
one  cup  of  vinegar  and  boil  separately,  pour  slowly  over  the 
other  mixture  and  when  this  is  done  boil  slowly  until  thick. 
Grind  up  a  fair  sized  head  of  cabbage,  one  medium  sized 
onion  and  two  green  peppers  from  which  the  seeds  and  fibre 
have  been  removed.    Then  mix  with  the  dressing  and  serve. 

GERMAN  SALAD. 
One  small  head  of  cabbage,  one  large  beet,  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Cut  the  cabbage  as  fine  as  you  would  for 
slaw;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  this  on  a  flat  dish, 
pile  it  quite  high,  and  arrange  around  with  alternating 
slices  of  boiled  beet  and  hard-boiled  eggs.  Garnish  the  edge 
thickly  with  the  delicate  part  of  celery  curled  and  the  small 


SALADS.  135 


leaves.  Do  not  stir  the  mixture  with  the  vegetables  and 
boil  the  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Whip  to  a  thick  froth  a  pint 
of  rich  cream  and  pour  over  the  whole. 

CREAM  SALAD. 

One-half  pint  of  potatoes  sliced  on  vegetable  cutter, 
one-half  pint  of  sliced  cucumber  pickles,  one-half  pint 
onion  chopped  fine,  one-half  pint  rich  cheese  cut  fine,  and 
one  pint  of  English  walnuts  broken  in  bits.  Mix  thor- 
oughly with  cream  dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

GREEN  PEPPER  AND  POTATO  SALAD. 

Chop  four  baked  potatoes  and  one  Spanish  onion  very 
fine.  Slice  one  green  pepper  across  so  that  it  makes  large 
rings  on  lettuce  leaves,  fill  them  with  the  potatoes  and 
onions,  heap  red  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each,  and  serve. 

JELLIED  TOMATO  SALAD. 

Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatin  in  a  cupful  of  cold  water  for 
ten  minutes.  Run  two  quart  cans  of  tomatoes  through  a 
fine  strainer,  using  all  but  the  seeds.  Heat  the  tomato  liquid 
adding  gelatin,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar. 
Place  a  layer  of  this  in  a  mould,  allowing  it  to  congeal 
partly;  add  a  layer  of  chopped  celery,  another  of  the  jelly, 
next  a  layer  of  peas,  one  more  of  jelly,  another  of  stuffed 
olives,  and  lastly  the  remaining  jelly.  Set  on  ice  to  harden. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  gar- 
nish with  concentric  rings  of  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs 
chopped  fine. 

ONION  AND  TOMATO  SALAD. 
Choose  half  a  dozen  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  of  medium  size, 
wipe  them  with  a  wet  towel  and  cut  them  into  slices  about 
one- fourth  inch  thick ;  peel  a  medium-sized  Spanish  onion  and 
slice  it  very  thin.  Arrange  the  sliced  onion  and  tomatoes 
in  layers  in  a  salad  bowl  and  pour  over  them  a  plain  salad 


136  SALADS. 


dressing  made  by  mixing  together  one-teacup ful  of  salad  oil. 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one-half  tablespoon  ful  of  pepper.  Use  the  salad  as 
soon  as  made.  Young  green  onions  may  be  used  for  this 
salad. 

TOMATO  BASKETS. 
4  firm  red  tomatoes,  1  can  asparagus  tips, 

1  large  green  pepper,  Salad  dressing. 

Cut  the  peppers  into  slices  crosswise  to  form  %  inch  rings. 

Scald  tomatoes,  peel,  chill  and  cut  in  half  crosswise.  Place 
on  lettuce  leaves,  with  the  cut  side  up.  Lay  4  or  5  asparagus 
tips  side  by  side  in  center  of  each  tomato  half.  Cut  pepper 
rings  at  one  end  and  lay  across  the  top  of  asparagus  to  meet 
the  sides  of  the  tomato,  thus  forming  a  handle  to  the  tomato 
basket.  Serve  ice  cold  with  French  dressing  or  Gargoyle 
sauce.     For  eight  people. 

FILLED  TOMATOES. 

6  tomatoes,  2  hard  boiled  eggs, 

6  sardellen,  y^  green  peppei, 

1  small  box  caviar,  i/^  dill  pickle. 

Scoop  tomatoes  and  put  on  ice;  when  ready  to  serve  fill 
with  all  above  ingredients  chopped  fine,  add  some  of  the  to- 
mato that  you  scooped  out,  cover  withh  Mayonnaise  and 
serve  cold. 

ITALIAN  SALAD. 

Take  three  cups  of  cooked  green  peas,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cooked  carrots,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  diced  cooked 
turnips,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  string  beans, 
all  mixed  together.  Into  a  French  dressing  mix  some 
chopped  gherkins,  olives,  and  chives,  moisten  the  vegeta- 
bles with  this  mixture,  and  garnish  with  pickled  beets,  cut 
in  fancy  shapes. 


SALADS.  137 


CARROT  SALAD. 

2  lbs.  small  carrots,  y>  gill  vinegar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  oil,  1  tablespoonful  chopped  par- 

1  tablespoonful  stock,  sley, 

A  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt. 

Wash  and  boil  the  carrots.  Then  scrape  them  and  cut  into 
thin  slices.  Mix  with  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
sprinkle  over  with  chopped  parsley. 

RIBBON  SALAD. 

One  cup  of  cold  cooked  string  beans,  one  cup  of  peas, 
one  cup  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Dress  the  beans  and 
peas  with  a  plain  French  dressing,  and  the  celery  with  a 
cold  mayonnaise.  Arrange  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce  on  a 
chop  plate.  On  that  place  the  beans,  celery,  and  peas  in 
alternate  layers.  Have  the  center  layer  of  celery.  Serve 
very  cold  after  garnishing  with  radish  roses. 

MACEDOINE  SALAD. 

Take  one  cupful  each  of  diced  carrots,  white  and  yellow 
turnips,  and  artichoke  bottoms,  and  add  one  cup  of  green 
peas,  one  cup  of  asparagus  tips,  and  one  cup  of  fine  cut 
string  beans.  Mix,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French 
dressing  and  capers. 

WAX  BEAN  SALAD. 

1  pint  wax  beans,  French  salad  dressing,  or    . 

1  pint  cut  celery,  2/3  cup  cream  mayonnaise. 

1  head  lettuce, 

Mix  the  cooked  cold  beans  with  French  dressing.  Add  1 
teaspoon  finely-cut  chives  or  onions.  Pile  in  center  of  salad 
dish  and  arrange  around  base  thin  slices  of  radishes.  Garnish 
top  with  radish  cut  to  represent  a  tulip. 


138  SALADS. 


ZEBRA  SALAD. 

Seed  two  green  peppers,  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
cut  in  shreds.  Shred  the  dark  and  light  leaves  of  a  head 
of  lettuce  or  endive  separately;  cut  three  tomatoes  in 
shreds,  remove  the  peel  and  skin  from  one  large  grapefruit. 
Arrange  each  article  separately  upon  the  serving  plate, 
having  a  circle  of  light  and  then  dark  green  material  around 
the  edge,  and  pour  over  French  dressing. 

HAM  SALAD  (No.  1.) 
y^  lb.  boiled  ham,  1  teaspoonful  chopped 

6  oz.  boiled  potatoes,  chives. 

Mayonnaise    Dressing  J^  tablespoonful  chopped 

1  tablespoonful  German  parsley. 

Mustard, 

Cut  the  ham  and  potatoes  into  small  dice,  stir  them  into 
the  white  Mayonnaise,  flavored  with  German  mustard,  parsley 
and  chives,  and  garnish  with  little  inner  leaves  of  lettuce  or 
endive. 

HAM  SALAD  (No.  2.) 
Chop  one  pound  of  cold  boiled  ham,  one  cold  baked  po- 
tato very  fine,  and  lay  on  a  platter  garnished  with  head  let- 
tuce.    Pour  over  French  dressing  and  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

ROAST  PORK  SALAD. 
Cold  roast  pork  cut  in  small  cubes,  may  be  used  with  half 
its  bulk  of  crisp,  sliced  celery  or  chopped  cabbage  as  a  salad. 
Marinate  the  pork  with  French  dressing.  When  ready  to 
serve,  drain,  mix  with  the  green  vegetable  and  either  boiled  or 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  at  once. 

NORMANDY  SALAD. 

Stew  very  gently  in  their  own  liquor  a  small  can  of 
French  peas.     When  the  peas  have  absorbed  all  the  liquor 


SALADS.  139 


remove  from  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Chop  half  a  pound  of 
English  walnuts,  mix  with  the  peas  and  pour  over  a  half  cup 
of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

VIRGINIA  HAM  SALAD. 

Slice  a  pound  of  cooked  Virginia  ham  very  thin  and  lay 
it  on  a  platter  garnished  with  one  head  of  lettuce.  Separate 
the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs.  Chop 
the  whites  very  fine,  and  put  the  yolks  through  a  potato 
ricer.  First  lay  the  whites  and  then  the  yolks  on  the  ham, 
and  pour  over  French  dressing. 

BIRD'S  NEST  SALAD  (No.  1.) 

J^  lb.  cream  cheese,  %  lb.  nut  meats,  chopped, 

1  head  lettuce,  1  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing, 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 
Mix  nut  meats  and  parsley  with  any  good  cream  cheese, 
form  into  balls  size  of  a  hickory  nut.    Take  the  center  crisp 
leaves  of  head  lettuce,  form  3  or  4  for  each  plate  into  a  nest. 
Place  balls  in  nest,  add  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  serve  cold. 

BIRD'S  NEST  SALAD  (No.  2.) 

Color  Neufchatel  cheese  a  light  green  with  pistachio 
coloring.  Make  softer,  if  desired,  by  adding  a  little  sweet 
cream.  Roll  into  small  egg-shaped  balls.  Arrange  these 
in  nests  made  of  water  cress  or  shredded  lettuce  leaves, 
and  speckle  with  parsley  chopped  fine.  Serve  wath  may- 
onnaise dressing.  This  novel  salad  is  not  hard  to  make, 
and  is  an  attractive  dish. 

CELERY  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

\y2  cup  celery,  diced,  J^     red     or     green     pepper, 

1^  cup  pecans,  shelled,  chopped, 

y2  cup  olives,  pitted.  Mayonnaise  dressing, 

Cress  or  lettuce. 
Mix  the  first  four  ingredients  and  serve  cold  with  Mayon- 


140  SALADS. 


naise  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  green  or  red  peppers, 
tops  off,  and  scooped  out.  If  cress  is  used,  wash  and  dry 
well.     Arrange  on  outside  edge  of  platter. 

WATER  LILY  SALAD. 

1  large  or  two  small  heads  of     3  or  6  hard  cooked  eggs. 

lettuce, 

Cook  eggs  one-half  hour.  When  cold,  remove  the  shell 
and  cut  the  tgg  crosswise  in  small  points  to  resemble  leaves 
of  a  flower. 

Carefully  wash  and  wipe  the  lettuce;  cut  the  large  leaves 
into  narrow  shreds,  but  save  the  nicest  small  ones  whole. 
Then  make  a  boiled  dressing,  arrange  the  finely  shredded 
lettuce  in  the  bottom  of  the  platter,  pour  over  the  dressing, 
arrange  the  leaves  on  top  of  it,  put  half  an  egg  in  the  center 
of  each  leaf.     Garnish  with  radishes. 

CHESTNUT  SALAD. 

Chestnut  salad  is  much  in  favor,  and  great  is  the  variety 
both  in  method  of  preparation  and  serving.  The  chestnuts 
should  in  any  case  be  cooked  until  tender,  cooled  and  mixed 
with  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  Equal  parts 
of  shredded  celery  and  chestnuts  go  well  together.  The 
fruit  is  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  slices  and  mixed  with  the 
chestnut  meats.  Dress  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  garnish 
with  lettuce  hearts. 

SALADE  LOUIS. 

Take  three  slices  of  the  white  meat  of  chicken,  three 
slices  of  cooked  beets,  three  slices  of  Swiss  cheese,  two  small 
boiled  potatoes,  a  raw  green  pepper,  and  cut  in  small  cubes. 
Add  the  heart  of  a  Romaine  lettuce  sliced.  Sprinkle  in  a 
teaspoon ful  of  chopped  chives,  and  mix  the  whole  together 
well.  Ornament  with  a  sliced  Bermuda  onion  and  a  sliced 
hard-boiled  egg.  Add  three  tablespoon fuls  of  French  dress- 
ing. 


SALADS.  141 


FRUIT  SALAD. 

3  oranges,  Sugar  to  taste, 

3  bananas,  Juice  of  1  lemon, 

Yi  lb.  Malaga  grapes,  •     12  English  walnut  meats. 

Yz  cup  pineapple,  chopped. 

Cut  the  oranges  in  two  crosswise,  reserving  the  peels  as 
salad  cups.  Remove  pulp  separately  from  each  section.  Re- 
move skins  and  seeds  from  grapes.  Mix  orange  pulp  and 
grapes  and  pineapple,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  add  lemon  juice, 
and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  several  hours.  Before  serv- 
ing, add  the  bananas  sliced,  and  the  walnut  meats.  Fill  the 
orange  shells  with  this  mixture.  One-fourth  cup  of  wine  may 
be  added,  if  desired,  or  a  wine  dressing:  One-half  cup  of 
sugar,  one-third  cup  of  sherry  wine,  and  two  tablespoons  JNla- 
deira  wine. 

FRUIT  SALAD,  ALICE. 

Slice  various  kinds  of  fruit,  such  as  bananas,  oranges, 
grapefruit,  apples,  peaches,  and  pineapple.  Put  in  alter- 
nate layers  in  deep  glass  dish  or  salad  bowl.  Sprinkle  each 
layer  with  powdered  sugar,  a  little  sherry,  and  half  as  much 
plain  syrup.  When  all  the  fruit  is  in,  place  on  ice  for  two 
hours.  Just  before  serving  pour  over  the  surface  a  wine- 
glass of  maraschino,  and  decorate  with  maraschino  cherries. 

GRAPE  SALAD. 

Skin  and  seed  white  grapes,  stuff  them  with  nut  kernels, 
arrange  on  white  curly  lettuce  leaves  or  water  cress.  Cover 
with  French  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice. 

ORANGE  AND  NUT  SALAD,  ASTOR  STYLE. 

Remove  the  pulp  from  four  large  oranges,  cut  each  in 
eighths  and  divide  these  in  halves.  Marinate  with  French 
dressing.  Marinate  an  equal  quantity  of  English  walnuts, 
using  the  halves ;  toss  together  lightly  with  a  fork  and  arrange 


142  SALADS. 


each  portion  in  nests  of  lettuce  heart  leaves;  sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  hearts  of  crisp  celery  and  mask  with  Mayon- 
naise. 

ORANGE  SALAD 
Peel  and  slice  six  seedless  oranges  and  four  bananas,  and 
arrange  them  in  alternate  layers  in  the  salad  dish.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  five  eggs  for  five  minutes,  add  one  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  and  beat  until  thick,  add  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  beat  again.  Pour  over 
the  prepared  fruit  and  set  away  on  the  ice,  as  it  must  be 
very  cold  when  served. 

SOUTH  SHORE  COUNTRY  CLUB  SALAD. 

Rub  the  salad  dish  with  garlic  and  line  with  a  bed  of 
romaine  lettuce.  Fill  in  the  center  with  equal  parts  of  can- 
taloupe and  watermelon  balls  cut  out  with  a  Parisienne 
spoon.    Pour  over  French  dressing  made  with  fruit  juices. 

LOG  CABIN  SALAD. 

Peel  and  cut  lengthwise  four  bananas,  place  in  orange 
juice  for  half  an  hour,  then  place  the  bananas  on  individual 
serving  plates,  log  cabin  fashion,  fill  the  centers  with  stoned 
cherries,  using  both  white  and  red  if  obtainable,  and  pour 
over  fruit  dressing.    Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

White  asparagus  can  also  be  served  in  this  style,  filling 
the  centers  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

CHERRY  SALAD  (No.  1.) 
1   can  large  California  cher-     French  dressing, 

ries,  red  or  white.  Lettuce  leaves  or 

Filbert  nutmeats.  Squares  of  lemon  jelly. 

Drain  and  pit  cherries  and  fill  them  with  the  nutmeats, 
whole  or  chopped.  Add  to  French  dressing  the  juice  of  the 
cherries.  Pour  over  cherries  and  serve  very  cold  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves. 


SALADS.  143 


CHERRY  SALAD  (No.  2.) 

The  big,  dark  red  and  black  cherries  which  are  becoming 
so  plentiful  in  the  shops  just  now,  make  the  most  delightful 
salad,  either  alone  or  in  combination  with  other  fruit. 

They  are  heaped  on  young  tender  lettuce  leaves  and  served 
with  a  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise. 

Thin  slices  of  golden-brown  buttered  toast  or  rye  bread 
are  served  with  such  a  salad. 

Another  way  to  make  a  cherry  salad  is  to  remove  the 
stones  from  the  fruit  and  fill  the  cavity  with  whole  blanched 
almonds  or  finely  chopped  nut  meats.  Mayonnaise  flavored 
with  maraschino  is  served  and  cream  cheese  balls  mixed  with 
chopped  maraschino  cherries  and  rolled  in  powdered  nut 
meats  are  placed  on  the  side  of  the  dish  in  which  the  salad 
is  served. 

HICKORY  NUT  SALAD. 

Skin  and  seed  one  pound  of  grapes.  Mix  and  form  into 
balls,  one  cupful  of  hickory  nuts  and  a  half  pound  of  cottage 
cheese,  lay  them  on  platter  garnished  with  lettuce,  and  sur- 
round with  grapes.  Mix  the  juice  of  the  grapes  with  fruit 
dressing,  using  the  juice  of  only  one  lemon  if  the  grapes 
are  sour. 

ENGLISH  WALNUT  SALAD. 

One-half  pound  English  walnuts,  two  apples,  mayonnaise 
dressing,  lettuce,  cold  boiled  chicken  if  liked. 

Shell  the  walnuts,  throw  them  into  boiling  water  and  re- 
move the  skin.  Mix  these  with  two  chopped  apples  and 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Pieces  of 
cold  boiled  chicken  may  also  be  mixed  with  the  nuts  before 
mixing  with  the  apples  and  mayonnaise  dressing.  Pare  and 
core  the  apples  and  cut  them  into  dice. 

PRUNE  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

Cook  prunes  until  tender,  remove  the  stone,  and  cut  the 
fruit  into  eighths  lengthwise.     Arrange  on  lettuce  with  a 


144  SALADS. 


mound  of  cream  dressing  in  the  center.  Sprinkle  chopped 
pecan  meat  over  all,  or  break  the  prune. stones  and  chop 
the  kernels. 

NUT  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 
Take  three  green  peppers  and  cut  into  two  equal  parts, 
removing  the  seeds,  and  fill  them  with  one  and  one-half 
cupfuls  of  chopped  celery,  and  one  cup  of  chopped  English 
walnuts,  thoroughly  mixed.  Garnish  the  platter  with  let- 
tuce leaves,  and  place  the  peppers  on  it.  Put  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  mayonnaise  dressing  on  top  of  each  portion. 

POMONA  SALAD. 

Cut  four  Jonathan  apples  into  straw  shape  pieces  one  inch 
long;  add  half  the  quantity  of  hearts  of  celery  cut  in  same 
shape ;  add  one  cup  blanched  and  shredded  Jordan  almonds ; 
toss  together  lightly  and  serve  in  nest  of  cress,  endive,  or  let- 
tuce hearts;  marinate  with  French  dressing  and  garnish  with 
Mayonnaise.  This  salad  will  be  found  particularly  appetiz- 
ing served  with  game,  domestic  ducks,  geese,  or  roast  pork. 

APPLE  AND  ONION  SALAD. 

Three  mildly  acid  apples,  one  onion,  lettuce,  French 
dressing. 

Slice  the  onion  and  apples.  Arrange  in  lettuce  leaves, 
and  season  with  French  dressing. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

One  cupful  of  Malaga  grapes,  three  bananas,  three 
oranges,  one  cupful  of  nut  meats,  one  bunch  of  celery,  one 
head  of  lettuce,  mayonnaise  dressing.  Line  the  dish  with 
lettuce  leaves,  cut  celery  in  dice,  mix  with  fruit  and  nuts, 
add  dressing,  and  chill  well  before  serving. 

GERMAN  APPLE  CUP. 

Select  fine  grained  apples,  one  for  each  person,  core 
and  scoop  out  the  center.     Cut  heart  stalks  of  celery  very 


SALADS.  145 


fine,  but  do  not  chop  it.  Mix  celery  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, to  which  half  the  bulk  of  whipped  cream  has  been 
added ;  add  also  more  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  center  of  the  ap- 
ples in  small  pieces  and  mix  with  celery.  Use  this  mixture 
to  fill  the  hollow  center  of  the  apples,  rounding  it  up  above 
the  apple  a  little.  In  the  center  of  the  mixture  in  each  apple 
set  a  tiny  heart-leaf  of  lettuce.  Apples  pared  and  cut  to 
represent  birds  may  be  used  in  garnishing,  using  raisins  for 
eye  and  nose. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Remove  front  the  skin  the  cells  and  juice;  add  a  little 
sugar,  and  if  desired  chopped  pineapple  and  a  few  Maraschino 
cherries.  Serve  very  cold  in  thin  glasses,  surrounded  with 
crushed  ice,  or  in  fruit  shells. 

GRAPEFRUIT  EN  SURPRISE. 

Fill  the  outer  bowl  of  a  double  oyster  cocktail  glass 
with  fine  cracked  ice.  Insert  the  smaller  cup  to  chill.  Cut 
a  grapefruit  crosswise,  and  remove  all  the  bitter  membrane. 
Put  it  into  the  inner  cup,  and  pour  over  French  dressing 
made  with  lemon  juice.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and 
tie  a  ribbon  the  color  of  your  table  decorations  around 
the  stem  of  each  glass  before  serving. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Take  a  large  pineapple,  cut  a  square  on  one  side  so  the 
pulp  can  be  removed,  then  cut  a  small  slice  off  the  other  side 
to  make  the  pineapple  steady  on  the  platter.  Remove  the 
pulp,  shred  it  and  mix  it  with  mayonnaise,  put  it  in  a  china 
bowl  and  set  it  on  the  ice  for  an  hour.  When  ready  to 
serve,  fill  the  pineapple  with  the  mixture,  place  on  a  plate, 
and  serve.  The  leaves  should  be  left  on  the  end  of  the 
pineapple.  Strawberries,  cherries,  and  blanched  almonds 
may  be  added  if  preferred. 


Desserts 

Cakes.,  Tories,  Puddings,  Souffles,  Ices  and  Ice  Creams 


ALMOND  TORTE. 
No.  1. 

9  eggs,  separated,  1>^  cups  sugar, 

Yi  lb.  almonds,  unblanched  .     1  cup  flour, 

and  grated,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  yolks  well  with  sugar  and  add  alternately  the  stiffly 

beaten  whites  and  grated  aln.onds;  then  fold  in  lightly  the 

flour  mixed  with  the  baking  powder.      Place  in  wxll-greased 

spring  form  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes. 

No.  2. 

9  eggs,  ^  lb.  bitter  almonds, 

8  tablespoons  granulated  4  stale  lady  fingers, 

sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1/4  lb.  sweet  almonds,  3^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light;  add  grated  al- 
monds, grated  lady  fingers,  vanilla,  and  the  baking  powder, 
lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  in 
spring  form  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes. 


APPLE  TORTE. 

6  ounces  butter, 

10  ounces  flour, 

1  ^%Z. 

2  tablespoon fuls  sour  cream. 

2  yolks. 

2  oz.  sweet  almonds. 

2  lbs.  apples. 

In  addition: 

6  ounces  sugar. 

Yz  gill  sour  cream,  a  little 

4  ounces  currants, 

extra  sugar,  and  4  yolks. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  1  ^gg,  2  extra  yolks,  2  ounces 
sugar,  1  tablespoon ful  water  and  then  the  flour  and  mix  to  a 
paste.     Roll  out  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  shallow, 


DESSERT.  147 


broad,  cake  tin.  Bake  a  few  minutes,  but  not  completely. 
Grate  the  almonds  and  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour 
cream.  Spread  on  the  cake  and  sprinkle  over  with  grated 
bread  crumbs. 

Peel  the  apples,  cut  them  into  thin  slices  and  mix  with 
the  currants  and  4  ounces  sugar.  Place  these  on  the  bread 
crumbs  and  pour  over  them  half  a  gill  of  slightly  sour  cream, 
beaten  up  with  four  yolks  and  a  little  sugar.  Place  in  the 
oven  and  finish  baking. 

BROD  TORTE. 

5  yolks  of  eggs,  1  cup  grated  bread, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  wine, 

1  cup  almonds,  blanched  1  lemon,  grated  rind, 

and  grated,  5  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

13^  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light,  soak  the  wine  with 
the  crumbs  and  add  and  mix  all  together,  the  beaten  whites 
last.     Bake  in  two  layers,  Brod  Torte  Filling  between. 

CHOCOLATE  TORTE. 

9  eggs  (whites  beaten  stiff),    ^  lb.  of  Maillard's  grated 
1  lb.  powdered  sugar,  sifted,  sweet  chocolate, 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  3^  lb.  grated  almonds. 

Beat  yolks  with  sugar,  add  chocolate,  almonds  and  vanilla, 
and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  one  hour,  in  spring  form, 
moderate  oven. 

Icing:  One-quarter  pound  Maillard's  chocolate,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk;  boil  and  add  vanilla  and  yolk  of 
one  egg. 

COFFEE  CREME  TORTE. 

8  eggs,  separated,  ^  lb.  almonds,  grated, 

J^  lb.  powdered  sugar,  2  oz.  coffee,  pulverized. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


148 


DESSERT. 


Beat  the  yolks  until  thick.  Add  the  sugar;  then  the  al- 
monds and  coffee  and  vanilla,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  well- 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Use 
the  following: 

Creme  for  Filling  and  Frosting: 
6  oz.  fresh,  unsalted  butter,  separately, 

6  oz.  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon  coffee  essence, 

4  yolks,  each  one  added  added  drop  by  drop. 

Cream  butter  and  eggs  together,  add  each  yolk  separately, 
and  coffee  essence  drop  by  drop.  Decorate  with  small  choco- 
late wafers  and  candied  cherries.  To  be  kept  in  a  cold  place 
until  used  in  order  to  harden  the  creme.  Cut  with  a  knife 
dipped  in  hot  water. 

DATE  AND  WALNUT  TORTE. 

2  large  eggs,  1  cup  dates  (cut  fine), 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  cup  walnuts  (chopped),  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  sugar,  nuts  and  dates,  and  lastly 
the  flour  mixed  with  the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
one  hour.  If  desired  for  dessert,  pour  over  a  glass  of  wine 
and  cover  with  whipped  cream.    The  wine  may  be  omitted. 

FILBERT  TORTE. 

Yi  cup  bread  crumbs,  Juice  of  ^  lemon, 

\y2  cups  powdered  sugar,        J4  lb.  grated  filberts  or 

y2  cup  bread  crumbs,  hazelnuts, 

1  lemon,  grated  rind,  8  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light,  add  bread  crumbs 
and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  in  order,  the  beaten  whites 
last.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  forty  to  forty-five  minutes,  in  a 
spring  form.    Frost  with  nut  frosting.    Decorate  with  nuts. 

Or  bake  in  two  layers,  with  fresh  strawberries,  or  sweet- 
ened whipped  cream,  between  and  on  top  of  cake. 


DESSERT.  149 


HIMMEL  TORTE. 

^  lb.  butter,  4  cups  (lib.)  flour, 

4  tablespoons  sugar,  Grated  rind  of  lemon. 

4  yolks  of  eggs, 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  one  at  a  time;  then  the  flour  and  grated  lemon  rind. 
Bake  in  three  layers.  Spread  the  top  of  each  layer  with 
white  of  egg  to  moisten,  a  sprinkling  of  cinnamon,  sugar,  and 
chopped  almonds.  Put  raspberry  jelly  on  top  of  two  layers, 
and  over  all  the  following: 

Creme:  One  pint  thick  sour  cream,  vanilla,  two  table- 
spoons cornstarch  and  sugar  mixed.  Boil,  and  lastly  stir  in 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

KIRSCH-TORTE.— Cherry  Cake. 
J^  lb.  flour,  J^  ounce  baking  powder, 

1/4  lb.  potato  flour,  J^  lb.  sugar, 

^2  lb.  butter,  5  tablespoons  dry  bread- 

V/2  lbs.  cherries,  stoned  and         crumbs, 
some  of  the  juice  pressed     6  eggs, 
out.  Grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 

Cream  the  butter,  then  add  the  sugar,  beaten  up  eggs, 
grated  lemon  peel  and  finally  the  flour  mixed  with  the  bak- 
ing powder.  Fill  a  well-buttered  cake  tin  with  half  this  quan- 
tity, strew  in  three  tablespoons  dry  bread  crumbs  over  them, 
and  then  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  paste.  Bake  about 
one  hour. 

Stoned,  skinned  plums  may  be  substituted  for  the  cherries. 

MOCHA  TORTE. 

Sift  one  cupful  of  flour  three  times,  add  to  it  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder.  Now  whip  one  cupful  of  pul- 
verized sugar  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoonfuls  of  Mocha  essence  and  the  stiffly  beaten 


150  DESSERT. 


whites  of  the  eggs,  then  carefully  fold  in  the  flour  and 
bake  in  two  layers. 

For  filling  mix  one-half  pint  of  whipped  cream  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  Mocha  essence  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
pulverized  sugar;  place  between  the  layers  and  on  top. 

RUM   TORTE. 

8  eggs,  separated,  2  heaping  tablespoons  bread 

y2  lb.  almonds,  grated,  crumbs, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  flour,  mixed  with 
Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,        ^  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  until  light.  Add-  the  al- 
monds, bread  crumbs  and  lemon.  Then  fold  in  lightly  the 
beaten  whites,  and  the  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed.  Bake 
in  a  spring  form  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Allow  the  cake  to  cool  somewhat,  then  cut  crosswise 
through  the  center  into  two  layers  and  put  in  a  filling  of  one 
glass  raspberry  jelly  and  one  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

Frost  with  the  following  mixture: 

2  cups  confectioner's  sugar,       2  tablespoons  rum. 

4  tablespoons  cream. 
Stirred  until  smooth.     Spread  over  top  and  sides.     (For 
trimming  the  cake  use  half  walnuts  and  slices  of  figs.) 

SAND  TORTE. 

6  eggs,  Yz  lemon  (juice  and  rind), 

1  cup  sugar,  1>^  tablespoon  rum  or 

1  cup  fresh  washed  butter,  brandy, 

1/4  lb.  cornstarch,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  mix  flour  and 
cornstarch  and  baking  powder,  and  add  to  the  mixture  with 
the  lemon  juice  and  rum.     Bake  in  a  round  or  square  loaf. 


DESSERT.  151 

WALNUT  TORTE. 

1  lb.  English  walnuts  or  9  eggs, 

almonds,  %  cup  grated  chocolate, 

1  cup  sugar,  J4  cup  of  fine  cracker  crumbs. 

Chop  the  nuts,  reserving  twenty-three  halves  for  decorat- 
ing the  top.  Mix  the  chopped  nuts  and  chocolate.  Beat 
yolks  thoroughly  with  Dover  beater,  add  sugar  and  beat 
again.  Then  mix  with  the  nuts,  crumbs  and  chocolate,  and 
stir  well.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  lastly,  just 
as  in  sponge  cake.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty-five  min- 
utes in  prepared  spring  form. 

UNEEDA  BISCUIT  TORTE. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  1^  cups  sugar — beat  well. 

Ten  Uneeda  Biscuits  rolled  fine. 

One  cup  grated  walnuts. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one-half  lemon — biscuits  added 
to  eggs — then  nuts  and  lemon — lastly  beaten  whites  of  eight 
eggs.    Bake  in  slow  oven  40  minutes.    Do  not  grease  pan. 

ANGEL  FOOD. 

Whites  of  8  or  9  eggs,  or         I14  cups  sugar, 
Just  1  cup  of  whites,  3^2  teaspoon  vanilla,  or 

A  pinch  of  salt,  almond  extract, 

1/2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,       1  cup  pastry  flour. 

Sift  flour  once,  then  measure  and  sift  three  times.  Add 
salt  to  the  whites,  beat  about  half,  add  cream  of  tartar,  then 
beat  whites  until  they  will  stand  of  their  own  weight;  add 
the  sugar,  then  flour,  not  by  stirring  but  folding  over  and 
over  until  thoroughly  mixed  in ;  flavor.  Bake  in  an  ungreased 
pan,  patent  tube  pan  preferred.  Place  the  cake  in  an  oven 
that  is  just  warm  enough  to  know  there  is  a  fire  inside;  let 
the  oven  stay  just  warm  through  until  the  batter  has  raised  to 


152  DESSERT. 

the  top  of  the  mould,  then  increase  the  heat  gradually  until  the 
cake  is  well  browned  over;  if  by  pressing  the  top  of  the  cake 
with  the  finger  it  will  spring  back  without  leaving  the  imprint 
of  the  finger  the  cake  is  done  through.  Great  care  should  be 
taken  that  the  oven  is  not  too  hot  to  begin  with,  as  the  cake 
will  rise  too  fast  and  settle  or  fall  in  the  baking.  Bake  35  to 
40  minutes.  When  done,  invert  the  pan;  when  cool  remove 
from  pan. 

BLITZ  KUCHEN. 
No.  1. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  J/2  lemon  juice, 

4  eggs,  }i  lb.  almonds,  chopped. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  then  add 
flour  and  lemon  rind.  Stir  well,  spread  with  a  little  unbeaten 
white  of  Q^gg,  strew  with  the  almonds  and  bake  in  a  flat  tin 
until  well  done  and  browned. 

No.  2. 

1  cup  butter,  4  cups  flour, 

\y2  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

7  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Grated  rind  of  lemon. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  stir  well;  add  the  beaten 
yolks,  lemon  rind,  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed  and  lastly 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Blanch  and  slice  a  few 
almonds  and  strew  over  the  top  with  a  sprinkling  of  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  well  greased  spring  form  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  about  forty  minutes. 

CARAMEL  LAYER  CAKE. 

4  oz.  butter,  1^4  cups  pastry  flour,  sifted 
1  cup  sugar,  twice, 

5  whites  of  eggs,  2  heaping  teaspoons  bakmg 
5^  cup  milk,  powder. 


DESSERT.  153 


Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar  and  stir  well.  Mix 
baking  powder  and  flour  and  lastly  fold  in  the  whites  beaten 
very  stiff.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Frost 
with  caramel  frosting. 

MURBERTEIG— Flaky  Dough  <No.  1.) 

1  cup  butter,  1  yolk  of  egg, 

Yi  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  rum, 

1  whole  egg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  cups  flour. 
Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  eggs,  stir  well, 
add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Place  dough  in  cool  place  to 
harden  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  roll  or  press  into 
shape  to  fit  form.  Fill  with  any  desired  fruit  or  torte  mixture 
and  bake.  Juice  and  rind  of  lemon  may  be  used  in  place  of 
rum. 

MURBERTEIG— Flaky  Dough  (No.  2.) 

13^  cups  butter,  3  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  %  lemon  (juice), 

5  hardboiled  yolks  of  eggs,         A  little  mace. 
1  whole  raw  egg, 

Rub  the  cooked  yolks  to  a  paste,  add  the  raw  egg.  Mix 
all  ingredients  and  press  dough  on  to  pie  plates  very  thin 
with  fingers,  since  it  will  be  impossible  to  roll  it. 

MURBERKUCHEN. 

Yz  lb.  butter,  4  tablespoons  sweet  cream, 

y^  lb.  flour,  2  oz.  sugar. 

Cream  the  butter,  and  mix  well  with  the  cream,  sugar  and 
flour.  Roll  out,  cut  into  various  shapes  with  cutter,  brush 
over  with  egg,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  a  pale  yellow  on 
a  buttered  tin. 


154  DESSERT. 


NUT  CAKE. 

y2  lb.  hickory  nut  meats.        Teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Scant  cup  of  sugar.  Teaspoon  vanilla. 

Whites  of  three  or  four  eggs  according  to  size. 
Roll  the  nut  meats  fine,  beat  the  eggs  stiff  and  add  sugar 
to  them.  Mix  all  ingredients  together.  The  consistency 
must  be  stiff.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  buttered  pan.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven.  If  hickory  nuts  are  not  procurable,  Eng- 
lish walnuts  and  pecans  may  be  substituted. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

3  eggs,  J4    teaspoon ful     extract     of 
1  scant  cup  cugar,  lemon, 

1  tablespoonful  hot  water,  1  cup  flour, 

2  teaspoonful  vinegar,  y^    teaspoon  ful   baking  pow- 
Yz  teaspoonful  salt,  der. 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  light;  add  sugar  gradually 
and  continue  beating;  then  add  water  and  vinegar;  add  the 
salt  to  the  whites  and  beat  until  very  stiff ;  sift  the  flour  with 
baking  powder  three  times ;  add  the  flavoring  and  fold  m  the 
flour  and  the  beaten  whites  alternately  as  gently  as  possible. 
Bake  about  30  minutes  in  slow  oven  until  well  risen ;  then  in- 
crease the  heat.     Invert  to  cool,  then  remove  from  pan. 


SAVARIN— French  Coffee  Cake. 

4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  milk,  5  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  >4  oz.  compressed  yeast, 

\y2  cups  butter,  Rind  of  1  lemon, 

2  tablespoons  maraschino. 
Stir  milk,  yeast  and  1  cup  of  flour,  and  let  it  raise.     Then 


DESSERT.  155 


add  the  other  ingredients,  beat  until  very  smooth  and  light. 
Butter  several  large  ring  forms  or  moulds,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  almonds  and  half  fill  with  the  dough.  Let  rise  to  the 
top  of  the  mould  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  baked, 
turn  from  the  mould  and  pour  over  the  following  syrup: 
Cook  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  water,  when 
boiled  add  one  tablespoon  maraschino. 

APPLE  STRUDEL. 

Take  one  pint  of  flour,  sift  it  into  a  bowl,  make  a  hole 
in  the  center  of  the  flour,  pour  in  half  a  cupful  of  warm 
water,  four  ounces  of  butter,  two  whole  eggs  and  two  yolks 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  this  slowly  making  a  smooth 
dough.  Cover  up  the  dough  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  un- 
til you  have  pared  half  a  peck  of  apples ;  cut  or  shave  them 
very  fine.  Now  cover  your  kitchen  table  with  a  clean  ta- 
ble cloth,  sift  flour  all  over  it  and  roll  out  your  dough  as 
thin  as  possible.  Then  use  your  hands,  placing  them  under 
the  rolled  dough,  and  stretch  it  gently,  very  gently  so  as 
not  to  tear  it,  walking  all  around  the  table  as  you  do  this 
to  get  it  even  and  thin  as  tissue  paper.  Pour  a  few  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter  over  the  dough,  mix  the  apples, 
some  brown  sugar,  cinnamon,  seeded  raisins  and  a  little 
citron  cut  fine.  Take  hold,  of  the  table  cloth  with  both 
hands  at  the  corners,  lift  it  and  begin  to  roll  the  strudel. 
After  it  is  rolled  place  in  a  buttered  pan,  put  flakes  of  but- 
ter on  top.  When  half  baked  pour  a  cupful  of  cream  over 
it  and  finish  baking.     Bake  about  half  an  hour. 

HUNGARIAN  STRUDEL. 

Put  into  a  mixing  bowl  about  one  and  one-half  coffee 
cups  of  flour  (good  measure)  ;  add  suflicient  warm  water  to 
make  a  paste  soft  enough  to  beat  with  the  hand  (not 
knead),  until  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the  bowl.     This  will 


156  DESSERT. 


take  only  a  few  minutes.  Now  take  a  table  cloth,  spread 
on  half  of  a  dining  table,  sift  flour  over  it  thinly,  but  have 
the  cloth  thoroughly  covered  with  it.  Put  the  dough  on 
this  and  roll,  especially  thin  in  the  center,  until  it  is  as 
large  as  a  small  tray.  Now  stop  rolling  and  begin  to 
stretch  it.  It  will  not  stretch  well  unless  warm.  If  you 
have  allowed  your  dough  to  get  cold  take  a  hot  frying  pan 
and  hold  it  over  the  dough  for  a  few  moments,  when  it 
will  stretch  easily.  This  stretching  is  rather  a  difficult 
proceeding,  as  you  must  be  careful  not  to  break  holes  in 
it,  and  it  must  be  almost  as  thin  as  tissue  paper.  A  thick 
dough  is  to  be  avoided,  neither  must  you  leave  thick  edges. 
After  it  is  sufficiently  stretched  strew  over  it  thickly  and 
evenly  six  or  eight  finely  chopped  tart  apples,  currants, 
raisins  or  both,  finely  shaved  citron  or  orange  peel  (can- 
died), grated  almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and,  lastl}^,  a 
cup  of  melted  butter,  free  from  all  salt,  poured  over  all. 
Now  take  an  edge  of  the  table  cloth  firmly  in  both  hands 
and  roll  it  quickly  from  you;  in  a  moment  you  have  before 
you  a  large  thick  roll,  which  form  into  a  round  or  oblong 
shape,  according  to  the  pan  in  which  you  wish  to  bake  it. 
The  only  way  to  put  it  into  the  pan  without  breaking  it  is 
to  take  hold  of  the  cloth  and  whisk  the  strudel  into  the  pan 
upside  down.  Pour  more  butter  on  top  and  place  in  a 
pretty  warm  oven;  baste  with  butter  that  accumulates  in 
the  pan  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown.     Eat  warm. 

ALMOND   PRETZELS. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  2  yolks  and  2  whole  eggs, 

Yi  lb.  almonds,  unblanched'  and  ground. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients.    Alix  and  knead  into  one  big  roll.     Let  stand  in 


DESSERT.  157 


ice  chest  to  harden.  Cut  into  pieces  size  of  a  walnut.  Roll 
each  piece  width  of  your  little  finger  and  form  into  hearts, 
rings,  crescents  and  pretzels. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  sift-   1  cup     flour     sifted     seven 

ed  seven  times.  times. 

Beat  whites  of  eight  eggs,  add  one-half  teaspoonful 
cream  tartar  and  pinch  of  salt,  then  add  yolks  of  five  eggs 
beaten,  then  the  sugar,  then  the  flour.  Flavor  with  lemon. 
Bake  slowly. 

CHERRY  TARTLETS. 

Yz  lb.  flour,  2  lbs.  stoned  sour  cherries, 

3  oz.  butter,  1    tablespoonful    dry    bread- 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk,  crumbs, 

1  ^gg' 

Mix  the  butter,  sugar  and  flour  well,  make  a  hollow  in  the 
middle  and  pour  in  the  ^gg,  beaten  up  with  the  milk.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  let  the  paste  stand  15  minutes  in  a  cool  place. 
Then  roll  out  about  1/3  inch  thick  and  cut  into  rounds.  Place 
a  little  edging  of  the  paste  on  each  round  to  form  a  rim. 
Sprinkle  with  dry  grated  breadcrumbs,  fill  with  cherries, 
dusted  over  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Sprinkle 
well  with  sugar  before  eating. 

Gooseberry  tartlets  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner,  the 
gooseberries  being  first  just  brought  to  the  boil  and  then 
drained. 

DATE  MACAROONS. 

1  lb.  stoned  dates.  Whites  4  eggs,  well  beaten, 

Yi  lb.  almonds,  1  cup  granulated  sugar. 

Stone  the  dates,  then  weigh  and  chop  them  fine.  Cut  al- 
monds lengthwise  in  slices,  but  do  not  blanch  them.  Beat  the 
whites  of  4  eggs  until  foamy,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  until 


158  DESSERT. 


stiff ;  add  the  dates,  then  the  almonds  and  mix  very  thoroughly. 
Drop  mixture  with  teaspoon  in  small  piles,  on  tins  one-half 
inch  apart.  Bake  50  minutes  in  a  very  slow  oven  or  until 
dry.     They  are  done  when  they  leave  the  pan  readily. 

Fig  Macaroons.  Made  same  as  date  macaroons,  using 
dried  figs,  softened  by  steaming,  in  place  of  the  dates. 

MACAROONS. 

Yi,  lb.  sugar,  ^  lb.  sweet  almonds,  grated, 

3  whites  of  eggs,  A  few  bitter  almonds. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  snow  and  mix  well  with  the  sugar. 
Then  add  the  almonds,  blanched  and  grated,  and  should  the 
paste  be  too  moist,  add  a  few  dry  breadcrumbs.  Place  in  lit- 
tle heaps  on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  a  pale  brown. 

MACAROON  TARTS. 

Rich  pie  dough,  White  of  eggs. 

Jam  or  marmalade,  J^  lb.  powdered  sugar, 

Yz  lb.  grated  almonds. 
Line  a  gem  or  muffin  pan  with  rich  pastry;  half  fill  each 
tart  with  any  desired  preserve,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  powdered 
sugar  and  stir  about  ten  minutes  or  until  very  light,  and 
gradually  add  the  grated  almonds.  Divide  this  macaroon  paste 
into  equal  portions.  Roll  and  shape  into  strips,  dusting  hands 
with  powdered  sugar  in  place  of  flour.  Place  these  strips  on 
the  baked  tarts  in  parallel  rows  to  cross  each  other  diagonally. 
Return  to  oven  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  15  minutes. 
Let  remain  in  pans  until  almost  cold. 

MARGUERITES. 

18  wafer  crackers,  ^  cup  sugar. 

White  of  1  ^gg,  2  tablespoons  nutmeats. 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  and  the  nuts  if 
desired.  Spread  on  top  of  crackers.  Place  in  pans  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  a  few  minutes,  until  slightly  browned. 


DESSERT.  159 


NUT  PATTIES. 

1  egg,  beaten,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  finely 

1  cup  sugar,  chopped, 

5  tablespoons  flour. 
Beat  egg  and  sugar  until  very  light ;  into  this  stir  the  nuts, 
then  add  the  flour.     Drop  on  tins  with  teaspoon;  make  the 
patties  about  the  size  of  macaroons  and  bake  in  a  medium  hot 
oven  about  10  minutes. 

QUEEN  OF  TRIFLES. 
1  lb.  lady  fingers,  1  qt.  cream,  whipped  stiff, 

1  lb.  macaroons,  1  pint  hot  milk, 

^  lb.  shelled  almonds,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

1  pint  sherry  wine.  1  egg, 

Yi  lb.  crystallized  cherries,  J^  cup  sugar, 
cut  in  halves. 
Soak  the  macaroons  in  the  wine ;  blanch  and  chop  almonds, 
not  too  fine.  Make  a  custard  by  mixing  sugar  and  flour  with 
the  egg  until  very  light,  add  gradually  to  the  hot  milk  and 
let  cook  in  double  boiler  until  very  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Cool,  add  almonds,  cherries,  and  the  cream  whipped  very 
stiff.  Line  glass  bowl  with  lady  fingers,  cut  in  half;  add  cus- 
tard, macaroons,  cream,  putting  cherries  all  through  the  bowl ; 
have  the  cream  on  top  decorated  with  the  cherries. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

1  qt.  milk.  Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  Teaspoon  vanilla. 

Pinch  of  salt.  1  oz.  butter. 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler  with  sugar,  salt  and  butter. 
When  boiling  add  cornstarch  which  has  been  blended  in  a 
scant  cup  of  water,  or  milk.  Stir  constantly.  When  thick 
turn  heat  off  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Must  be 
done  deftly  so  as  to  prevent  curdling.  Add  vanilla  when 
the  custard  is  taken  from  stove. 


160  DESSERT. 


BAKED  CUSTARD. 
3  yolks.  1  pint  milk. 

1  egg.  1-3  cup  sugar. 

Pinch  of  salt.     Bake  until  firm  in  center. 
When  you  want  caramel  custard,  then  take  2-3  cup  of 
granulated   sugar,   melt  the   sugar  until   it  turns   a  light 
brown  then  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 
No.  1. 

6  eggs,  2  tablespoons  breadcrumbs, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  cup  chocolate,  grated,  vanilla,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Beat  together  yolks  and  sugar,  add  other  ingredients,  then 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Boil  1^  hours  in  airtight  pudding 
form.     Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  or  vanilla  sauce. 

No.  2. 
10  eggs,  separated,  ^  cup  grated  almond, 

I'jA  cups  sugar,  y^  cup  flour, 

J4  cup  grated  chocolate,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

j4  teaspoon  cloves. 

Beat  yolks  until  very  light,  add  sugar  and  beat  again,  add 
chocolate,  spices,  almonds  and  flour,  stir  well,  then  gradually 
add  some  of  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  then  fold 
in  the  rest.  Place  in  buttered  pudding  mould,  tightly  cover, 
and  boil  2  hours.  Serve  hot  with  cream  sweetened  and  fla- 
vored with  vanilla. 

SPONGE  PUDDING. 

1  pint  milk,  J^  cup  sugar, 

^  cup  flour,  %  cup  butter, 

teaspoon  salt,  5  eggs,  separated. 

Stir  flour,  sugar  and  salt  with  a  little  of  the  milk  until 
smooth,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  hot,  and  cook  until  it 
thickens,  about   10  minutes;  add  the  butter  and  when  well 


DESSERT.  161 


mixed  stir  it  into  the  well  beaten  yolks;  then  fold  in  the 
whites,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  well  buttered  pudding  dish,  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  30  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  vanilla,  wine  or  Cream  sauce. 

ANGEL  MOUSSE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  English  walnuts, 

y^.  cup  water,  candied  pineapple  and  cher- 

3  whites  of  eggs,  ries,  chopped  fine, 

J^  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  pt.  cream,  whipped  stiff. 

Boil  sugar  and  water,  stirring  only  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
and  then  boil  until  it  spins  a  thread,  then  pour  it  on  the  well 
beaten  whites,  beat  until  cool,  flavor  when  cold,  stir  in  gently 
1  pint  of  cream  well  whipped  and  drained,  add  the  chopped 
nuts  and  cherries  and  put  in  a  mould.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt 
for  about  four  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  on 
platter  and  cut  with  a  knife.  One-quarter  cup  of  very  strong 
coffee  in  place  of  the  fruit  makes  a  good  Coffee  Mousse. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

Soak  two  tablespoonf uls  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water.  Beat  yolks  of  seven  eggs  with  one  cup  sugar.  Af- 
ter eggs  and  sugar  are  beaten,  add  soaked  gelatine,  also 
five  cents  worth  of  chopped  almonds.  Put  one  water  glass- 
ful claret  wine  on  to  boil,  pour  it  over  eggs,  sugar,  gela- 
tine and  nuts.  Then  let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over 
the  seven  beaten  whites.  Pour  this  into  a  large  cake-pan 
or  mold  in  which  you  have  ten  cents  worth  almond  maca- 
roons and  fifteen  cents  worth  candied  cherries.  First  a 
layer  of  macaroons  and  then  a  layer  of  cherries.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.    Make  a  day  before  serving. 

STEAMED  CARAMEL  PUDDING. 

6  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  %  cup  butter, 

3  oz.  ground  almonds,  6  eggs. 


162  DESSERT. 

Melt  the  sugar  in  a  spider  until  light  brown.  Add  flour 
and  milk,  stirring  until  it  forms  a  paste.  Cool,  then  add  but- 
ter, almonds,  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  lastly  the 
whites  that  have  been  beaten  stiff.  Butter  the  form,  cover 
butter  with  a  little  more  sugar.  Steam  1  hour.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

CRANBERRY  FRAPPE. 

1  quart  cranberries,  2  cups  water, 

2  cups  sugar.  Juice  of  2  lemons. 

Cook  the  berries  in  the  water  eight  minutes,  strain;  add 
sugar  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Cool,  add  lemon  juice 
and  freeze  to  a  mush,  using  equal  quantities  of  salt  and  ice. 
One  cup  of  crabapples  boiled  with  the  cranberries,  make  a 
pleasing  variety. 

DANISH  RICE  PUDDING. 

Yi  cup  rice,  ^  box  granulated  gelatine, 

1  pt.  milk,  y^  cup  warm  water, 

1  teaspoon  butter,  1  pt.  whipped  cream, 

yi  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  sherry. 

Cook  the  first   four  ingredients   until   perfectly   smooth; 

then  put  through  a  ricer. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  warm  water,  add  the  strained 

rice.     Let  cool  and  fold  in  the  whipped  cream  flavored  with 

the  sherry.     Put  in  mould  to  harden.     Serve  with  fresh  fruit 

or  fruit  sauce. 

RICE  A  LA  REINE. 

4  ounces  best  rice,  1  vanilla  bean, 

V/i.  pint  cream,  2  tablespoon fuls  water, 

54  pint  whipped  cream,  3  tablespoon  fuls  rum. 

4  ounces  sugar. 

Scald  the  rice  four  times,  the  fourth  time  with  carbonate 
of  soda  in  the  water.  Then  boil  it  in  the  cream  with  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  the  vanilla,  adding  four  leaves  of  gelatine,  dis- 


DESSERT.  163 

solved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  and  the  sugar.  Stand  the 
rice  on  one  side  to  cool,  stirring  occasionally.  Dissolve  the 
remaining  eight  leaves  of  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  boil- 
ing water.  Add  it,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  rum,  to  the 
cream,  whisked  very  stiffly,  and  then  stir  into  the  rice. 

Rinse  a  mould  with  cold  water,  fill  it  with  the  rice  cream, 
stand  it  for  at  least  two  hours  in  a  cool  place,  then  turn  out 
and  serve  with  fruit  syrup. 

HEAVENLY  HASH. 

1  pt.  whipped  cream,  Candied  cherries, 

25  best  marshmallows,  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Mix  the  marshmallows,  broken  in  small  pieces,  with  the 
whipped  cream,  let  stand  on  ice  several  hours,  then  decorate 
with  candied  cherries  and  serve  ice  cold. 

HIMBEERSCHAUM    (Raspberry  Froth.) 

3  whites  of  eggs,  4  ozs.  jam  (currant,  rasp- 

3  ounces  castor  sugar,  berry,  or  cranberry). 

Whisk  all  together  for  one  hour  and  serve  in  a  glass  dish. 

I  MACAROON  PUDDING. 

^  Cover  a  platter  evenly  with  macaroons.  Over  them 
pour  a  custard  made  as  follows.  Dilute  one-half  pint  of 
sherry  with  a  little  less  than  one-half  pint  of  water;  place 
over  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  have  ready  the 
yolks  of  your  eggs  thoroughly  mixed  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch.  Pour 
this  into  the  wine  and  water,  stirring  constantly  until  the 
custard  thickens.  Beat  the  wkites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff, 
sweeten  them  and  spread  them  over  the  custard,  decorate 
the  top  with  blanched  almonds  and  brown  lightly  in  the 
oven.    Serve  this  pudding  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE. 

6  eggs,  yolks,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  grated  chocolate,  6  whites  of  eggs,  beaten. 


164  DESSERT. 


Stir  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  chocolate  and 
six  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  greased  pudding  dish  set  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water,  about  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

COFFEE  SOUFFLE. 

3  tablespoons  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

3  tablespoons  flour,  3  eggs,  separated, 

1  cup  black  coffee,  1/3  cup  sugar. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  cook  until  frothy,  add  two- 
thirds  of  the  coffee,  stir,  then  add  the  rest  and  cook  until 
smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  yolks  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  thick  and  smooth;  then  fold  in  the  whites  of. 
eggs,  beaten  very  stiff;  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish,  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.     Serve  with  coffee  sauce. 

MACAROON  SOUFFLE. 

1  dozen  macaroons,  French  fruit,  chopped  fine, 

1  cup  milk,  Whipped  cream. 

3  eggs, 

Scald  the  macaroons  in  the  milk,  pour  over  the  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened  slightly ; 
fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
mold,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  about  twenty  minutes.  Turn 
from  the  mould,  sprinkle  top  with  the  fruit  and  surround 
with  the  whipped  cream. 

PEACH  SOUFFLE  A  LA  ROXANE.  • 

A  very  delicious  concocfion,  for  which  are  required  six. 
very  ripe,  fresh  peaches;  six  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  thick 
cream,  half  a  pound  of  fresh  marshmallows,  one 
large  and  very  ripe  red  banana  and  the  juice  of 
one  very  sweet  orange.  First,  the  peaches  are  peeled  and 
stoned  and  then  mashed  to  a  pulp  with  a  fork.  Then 
the  banana  is  pared  and  scraped    and    crushed    in  with  the 


DESSERT.  165 


peaches  and  the  juice  of  the  orange  blended  into  the  whole. 
Beat  the  six  eggs  with  the  whites  and  yolks  separate.  Then 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  to  the  fruit  pulp,  beating  thorough- 
ly, and  place  in  a  porcelain  saucepan.  Cook  over  a  brisk 
fire  uiitil  it  puffs  up  high,  then  stir  in  the  cream,  and  when 
thoroughly  heated  through  again  add  the  marshmallows 
v/hole,  and  when  heated  add  last  of  all  the  very  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs. 

This  marvelous  souffle  is  eaten  with  whipped  or  clotted 
cream. 

WALNUT  SOUFFLE. 

6  eggs,  yolks,  1  cup  grated  walnut  meats, 

6  whites  of  eggs,  beaten,  1  cup  sugar. 

Stir  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  then  add  the  nuts 
and  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  greased 
pudding  dish  in  moderate  oven  set  in  pan  of  hot  water. 

ROTHE  GRITSE. 

1  qt.  red  raspberries,  V/^  cups  sugar, 

1  quart  red  currants,  %  cup  cornstarch  dissolved 

2  cups  cold  water,  in  cold  water. 

Boil  berries  and  water ;  strain  and  add  sugar.  Let  boil  and 
add  three  heaping  tablespoons  cornstarch  (which  have  been 
dissolved  in  cold  water),  when  thick  put  in  a  melon  and  serve 
cold  with  cream. 

SWISS  RICE. 

1  cup  rice,  1  pint  cream,  whipped, 

3  to  3>^  cups  boiling  milk,       3^  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  teaspoon  salt.  Raspberry  or  cherry  juice. 

Add  salt  to  milk.  Steam  rice  in  the  milk  over  boiling 
water  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes  until  tender.  Add  vanilla. 
When  cool,  add  and  fold  in  all  but  half  a  cup  of  the  whipped 
cream;  shape  into  any  desired  form  with  spoon. 


166  DESSERT. 


Add  enough  fruit  juice  to  the  remaining  whipped  cream  to 
color  prettily  and  use  it  to  garnish  the  top.    Serve  cold. 

f 

CHESTNUT  FLAKE. 

1  lb.  chestnuts,  1  pt.  cream,  whipped, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  maraschino. 
1  cup  water. 

Take  fresh  chestnuts.  With  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  slit 
each  chestnut  shell  across  one  side.  Cook  a  minute  in  boiling 
water.  Drain  and  dry,  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter  to  each  pint 
of  nuts  and  stir  and  shake  over  the  fire  three  or  four  min- 
utes. Then  remove  the  shell  and  skin  together;  keep  nuts 
covered  with  thick  cloth,  as  they  shell  better  when  hot. 

Boil  chestnuts  until  half  done  in  boiling  water,  drain  and 
put  them  into  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  two  cups  sugar  with 
one  cup  of  water  ten  minutes,  and  boil  until  soft.  Put  through 
a  potato  ricer  ,and  serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with 
maraschino. 

MARRON  GLACE. 

1  pint  chestnuts,  %  vanilla  bean. 

1  pound  sugar. 

Shell  and  blanch  Italian  or  French  chestnuts,  cover  with 
fresh  boiling  water;  boil  rapidly  until  tender,  but  not  soft; 
drain.  Split  good,  oily  vanilla  bean  in  halves,  cut  it  into  small 
pieces,  add  seeds  and  all  to  the  sugar;  then  add  water  and 
stir  until  dissolved;  bring  to  the  boiling  point;  let  boil  a 
minute;  add  the  chestnuts  and  cook  slowly  without  boilings 
two  hours,  or  until  chestnuts  are  soft,  dark  and  very  rich. 

CRANBERRY  PARASADE. 

1  qt.  cranberries,  J^  cup  orange  juice, 

1  cup  boiling  water,  3  whites  of  eggs, 

3  cups  sugar, 

Wash  aiid  pick  over  the  berries.     Put    on    to    boil  with 


DESSERT.  167 


water.  Cover  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Strain,  reheat  and 
add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved;  add  the  orange  juice 
and  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  fold  in  gently  and  pack 
into  mould,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  butter  side  up,  and 
then  with  mould. 

BANANA  WHIP. 
3  small  bananas,  1  teaspoon  wine, 

1/3  sup  cugar,  Little  salt, 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  cup  double  creani. 

Press  the  pulp  of  three  bananas  through  a  ricer,  vegetable 
press  or  sieve;  cook  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice  until  scalded; 
cool  and  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  or  a  little  wine, 
add  also  a  few  grains  of  salt ;  then  beat  gradually  into  a  cup 
of  double  cream  beaten  solid  with  a  Dover  egg  beater.  Set 
aside  to  become  chilled,  then  serve  piled  high,  in  small  glasses, 
with  a  sprinkling  of  fine-chopped  pistachio  nuts  on  the  top. 
Line  the  glasses  before  filling  with  slices  of  banana.  This 
makes  a  particularly  good  Charlotte  Russe  filling. 

STEAMED  APPLES. 
No.  1 

Wipe,  core  and  pare  sour  apples;  put  on  a  plate  in  a 
steamer  and  cook  until  the  apples  are  tender.  The  juice  may 
be  strained  and  made  into  a  syrup,  using  one-quarter  cup 
sugar  to  one-half  cup  juice;  boil  five  minutes,  add  one  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice  and  strain  over  the  apples. 

No.  2 

Select  eight  red  apples,  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft, 
turning  often.  Have  water  half  surround  apples.  Remove 
skins  carefully  that  the  red  color  may  remain. 

To  the  water  add  one  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  juice  of  one  orange.  Simmer  until  reduced  to  one 
cup.     Cool  and  pour  over  apples. 


168  DESSERT. 


BAKED  BANANAS. 

Pull  down  a  section  of  the  skin  of  each  banana,  loosen 
the  pulp  from  the  skin,  remove  all  coarse  threads  that  adhere 
to  the  pulp  and  return  the  pulp  to  the  skin  in  its  original 
position;  lay  the  fruit  thus  prepared  in  an  agate  pan  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  skins  are  blackened  and  the  pulp 
is  softened.  Remove  pulp  from  the  skin  without  injury  to 
shape,  bend  in  a  half  circle  and  dispose  in  a  serving  dish; 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  fine-chopped,  blanched 
pistachio  nuts  and  serve  as  a  dessert  dish ;  or  pour  a  currant 
jelly  sauce,  and  serve  as  an  entree  with  broiled  or  roasted 
meat. 

BANANA  PARFAIT. 

Peel  about  three  bananas.  Scrape  off  the  coarse  threads, 
and  press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve.  There  should  be  one 
cup  and  a  fourth  of  the  pulp.  To  the  pulp  add  three-fourths 
a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  half  a  lemon;  cook  the 
mixture  over  hot  water  until  thoroughly  scalded,  then  set 
aside  to  become  cold.  Beat  one  cup  and  a  half  of  double 
cream  till  firm.  Cut  fine  citron,  candied  apricots  or  pine- 
apple and  Maraschino  cherries  to  half  fill  a  cup ;  pour  over 
these  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Jamaica  rum  and  let  it  stand 
an  hour  or,  w^hen  convenient,  over  night.  Have  a  quart 
mould  lined  with  paper  and  thoroughly  chilled.  Stir  the 
fruit  into  the  banana  mixture,  fold  the  fruit  mixture  and 
cream  together,  and  turn  into  the  mould,  filling  it  to  over- 
flow; cover  with  paper,  press  the  cover  down  over  the  pa- 
per, then  pack  in  equal  measures  of  salt  and  crushed  ice. 
Let  it  stand  three  hours. 

GRAPEFRUIT  CUP. 

Allow  one  grapefruit  for  each  four  or  five  to  be  served. 
Cut  the  fruit  into  halves,  crosswise,  then  cut  around  the 


DESSERT.  169 


pulp  in  each  section  and  take  it  out  in  neat  pieces;  cut 
the  pieces  into  halves;  reserve  all  the  juice.  Put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  red  bar-le-duc  currants  into  each  glass,  the 
grapefruit  with  juice  above  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  pow- 
dered sugar.  At  discretion  take,  for  six  glasses,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  each,  of  kirsch  and  curacoa  and  divide  among  the 
glasses.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve,  then 
finish  each  glass  with  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  orange, 
grapefruit,  lemon  or  pineapple  sherbet. 

CAFE  PARFAIT. 

1  quart  cream,  2  whole  eggs.  Sugar  to  taste. 

3  tablespoons       Mocha  Essence, 

Freeze  quite  soft  shortly  before  using  and  serve  in  glasses 
with  whipped  cream  and  maraschino  cherries. 

WINE  SYLLABUB. 

1  pint  cream,  1  cup  sherry,  madeira  or  port, 

Juice  of  1  lemon,  A  grating  of  nutmeg,  or 

}i  cup  sugar,  A  little  cinnamon. 

Mix  sugar  with  lemon  juice  and  wine  and  when  dissolved 
add  the  cream  and  whip  to  a  froth.  Drain  if  necessary. 
Serve  very  cold  in  glasses.  Have  wine-soaked  bit  of  cake  in 
bottom  of  glass. 

PRUNE  OR  DATE  WHIP. 

1/3  lb.  prunes.  Whites  5  eggs, 

y2  cup  sugar,  y^  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes  or  dates  and  soak  in  cold 
water.  Cook  in  same  water  until  soft;  then  remove  stones 
and  rub  through  strainer.  Add  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes 
or  until  the  consistency  of  marmalade.  Beat  whites  until  stiff 
and  add  when  cold,  fruit  mixture  gradually,  and  lemon  juice. 
Heap  lightly  in  buttered  dish,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven.     Serve  cold  with  thin  custard  or  cream. 


170  DESSERT. 


PRUNE  WHIP. 

Wash  a  half  pound  of  prunes  and  soak  them  over  night 
Cook  them  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked  until 
quite  soft,  remove  the  stones  and  press  the  prunes  through 
a  potato  masher.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  cook 
five  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  very  stiff 
froth,  add  this,  with  a  half  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
to  the  prunes  pulp,  stirring  in  lightly  with  a  fork.  Put  all 
in  a  buttered  shallow  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  a  custard  made  from  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs. 

RUSSIAN  CREAM. 

8  ounces  sugar,  ^2  gill  orange  juice, 

4  eggs,  2  tablespoon fuls  lemon  juice, 

10  leaves  of  gelatine,  J4  pint  white  wine, 

J^  pint  whipped  cream,  Yz  gill  rum. 

Beat  the  sugar,  orange  juice,  eggs,  wine  and  rum  well  to- 
gether. Stir  in  a  saucepan  till  it  thickens,  then  add  the  dis- 
solved gelatine.  Remove  from  the  fire,  whisk  briskly  and 
stir  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  snow.  Pour  into  a 
mould  rinsed  with  cold  water,  and,  when  set,  turn  out. 

BAKED  ALASKA. 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  vanilla, 

6  tablespoons  powdered  2  quarts  of  ice  cream, 

sugar.  Thin  sheet  sponge  cake. 

Make  two  quarts  of  ice  cream  after  any  receipe,  and  when 
frozen  remove  the  beater  and  pack  it  well  in  the  freezer  can. 
Let  it  stand  till  hard.  Just  before  serving  make  a  meringue 
by  beating  the  whites  of  six  eggs  till  stiff,  then  beating  in, 
gradually  six  rounding  tablespoon  fuls  of  sifted  powdered  sugar. 
Put  a  thin,  round  sheet  of  sponge  cake  on  a  plate  suitable  for 
serving,  and  turn  out  the  mould  of  cream  on  the  cake.  Pile 
the  meringue  thickly  round  the  edge  and  top  of  the  cream, 


DESSERT.  171 


but  do  not  smooth  it.  Place  the  dish  on  a  wooden  box  cover 
and  brown  the  meringue  quickly  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  at  once. 
The  plate  should  be  larger  than  the  cake,  and  the  cake  larger 
than  the  bottom  of  the  can.  The  cream  will  not  melt,  for 
the  wood  and  the  meringue  serve  as  non-conductors  of  the 
heat.     This  is  recommended  chiefly  for  its  novelty. 

FROZEN  PUDDING. 

To  two  well  beaten  eggs  add  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
milk  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  put  on  the  stove  and  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk; 
heat  until  it  has  the  consistency  of  a  thin  custard;  when 
cold  add  chopped  crystallized  cherries,  pineapple  and  wal- 
nuts, and  flavor  to  taste ;  then  set  it  in  a  pail  of  ice  and  salt 
for  four  or  five  hours. 

FROZEN  KISS  PUDDING. 

1  quart  whipped  cream,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Yz  lb.  ground  kisses,  1  tablespoon  Maraschino, 

2  tablespoons  sherry. 
Mix  and  put  into  a  mould  and  pack  in  salt  and  chopped 
ice  three  or  four  hours.     Add  a  few  candied  cherries,  chopped 
fine. 

MAPLE  CREAM. 
2  bottles  whipping  cream.       4  beaten  whites  and  one  tea- 
1  cupful  maple  syrup.  spoonful  gelatine. 

4  yolks  added. 
Put  in  mold  and  freeze. 

MAPLE  ICE  CREAM. 

1  cup  rich  maple  syrup,  4  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  pint  cream,  1  white  of  Q.gg. 

Heat  syrup  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  gradually  on  the 
well-beaten  yolk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  when 
cool,  add  to  the  cream,  whipped  with  the  white  of  the  ^gg\ 
freeze. 


172  DESSERT. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

1  cup  maple  syrup,  1  pt.  cream,  whipped  stiff, 

5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  eggs  till  very  light,  add  syrup  and  cook  until  it  thick- 
ens, stirring  constantly.  Place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  ice  and 
stir  until  creamy;  add  vanilla  and  whipped  cream.  Fill 
mould  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt,  four  parts  of  ice  to  one  of 
salt.     Let  stand  four  hours.        ^ 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Yi  cup  cold  water,  2/3  cup  raisins, 

1/2  box  granulated  gelatine,      3  tablespoons  blanched 

2  cups  hot  milk,  almonds, 

5  eggs,  Small  piece  of  citron,  cut  fine, 

Yz  cup  sugar. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar  and  add  to  the  hot  milk. 
Cook  one  minute  or  until  it  coats  the  spoon,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  cold  water.  Add  to  hot 
milk  mixture  and  stir  until  dissolved;  then  add  the  chopped 
nuts,  raisins,  citron  and  a  little  salt.  Set  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
five  eggs.  Also  one  tablespoon  brandy  and  one  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Put  in  a  mould  until  stiff.  Serve  with  plain  or 
whipped  cream. 

NUT  CREAM. 

For  Six  Persons.     Time  of  Preparation,  1  hour. 
114  pint  milk,  1  tablespoonful  sifted  flour, 

4  ounces  hazelnut  kernels,        3  eggs, 
4  ounces  sugar,  5  leaves  of  gelatine. 

Scald  the  nut  kernels,  scrape  the  skins  off  and  pound 
finely.  Put  on  half  of  the  milk  to  boil  with  the  sugar.  Beat 
the  yolks  with  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  add  to  the  boiling 
milk  and  boil  up  again,  adding  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  a 
pihch  of  s^It.     Pour  into  a  basin,  stand  in  a  cool  place  and 


DESSERT.  173 


stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  stir  in  the  stiffly-whisked 
whites  of  eggs  and  the  pounded  nuts.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish 
and  garnish  with  nuts. 

PEACHES  MELBA  ICE  CREAM. 

V/i  pt.  of  cream,,  6  eggs  (yolk), 

1  vanilla  bean,  J4  lb.  powdered  sugar. 

Put  the  cream  in  a  double  boiler,  with  the  vanilla  bean 
split  in  half.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  to- 
gether until  light,  add  to  the  hot  cream,  stir  until  the  eggs 
begin  to  thicken.     Strain  through  a  siev.e;  when  cool,  freeze. 

Take  half  a  cup  strawberry  syrup,  half  a  cup  raspberry 
syrup.  Put  on  stove ;  when  it  begins  tO'  boil  add  a  scant  tea- 
spoon cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Take  from  fire 
and  put  in  cool  place. 

Peel  fresh  peaches  and  place  on  ice,  then  pour  the  above 
syrup  and  peaches  over  the  ice  cream. 

Whole  preserved,  sweet  peaches  are  used,  out  of  season. 

PEAR  NORDICA. 

Take  one  large  crushed  macaroon  and  cover  this  with 
a  layer  of  vanilla  ice  cream,  on  top  of  this  lay  a  large 
peeled  whole  Bartlett  pear  (you  can  purchase  them 
canned).  Around  the  macaroon  and  ice  cream  pour  a 
chocolate  sauce. 

RASPBERRY  ICE. 

Take  two  boxes  of  red  raspberries,  mash  and  add  about 
1  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.  Let  stand  at  least  2  hours 
in  ice  box,  then  put  through  cheese  cloth,  add  about  >^ 
cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  water,  juice  of  5^  lemon  and 
small  bottle  of  cream.  Freeze.  This  mixture  makes  about 
a  good  quart. 


Frostings,  Fillings,  and  Sauces 
for  Dessert 


CLARET  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM.  * 

2  cups  sugar.  ^  cup  claret  wine. 

y2  cup  hot  water. 

Melt  the  sugar  with  the  water.  Stir  until  dissolved  and 
then  boil  without  stirring  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water. 

Remove  from  stove  and  add  the  ckret,  cool  and  serve  with 
ice  cream. 

COFFEE   SAUCE. 

2  eggs.  y2  cup  black  coffee. 

■!4  cup  sugar.  ^  cup  thick  cream. 

Strain  the  coffee  and  while  hot  add  the  sugar  and  a  few 
grains  of  salt,  and  pour  very  gradually  on  the  slightly  beaten 
eggs.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  mixture  coats  the  spoon.  Strain  into  cold  dish,  and 
when  cold  and  ready  to  serve,  fold  in  the  cream,  beaten  stiff. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

\y2  cups  scalded  milk.  %  cup  sugar. 

Ys  teaspoon  salt.  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Yolks  of  eggs. 
Beat  'eggs    slightly,    add    sugar   and   salt;    stir    constantly 
while  adding  gradually  the  hot  milk.     Cook  in  double  boiler 
until  mixture  thickens;  chill  and  flavor. 

CHOCOLATE   SAUCE. 

2  cups  milk.  2  tablespoons  hot  water. 

1^  tablespoons  cornstarch.       2  eggs. 
2  oz.  bitter  chocolate.  2-3  cup  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Add  cornstarch  to  a  little  of  the  cold  milk  and  mix  with 
the  rest  of  the  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  8 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS  175 

minutes.  Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  to  the  hot  milk 
mixture.  Beat  white  of  eggs  stiff,  add  powder  sugar,  then 
add  the  unbeaten  yolks  and  stir  well  into  the  cooked  mix- 
ture.    Cook  1  minute,  add  vanilla  and  cool  before  serving. 

MAPLE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 

1  pint  maple  syrup,  %.  cup  butter. 

Boil  the  syrup  and  butter  until  it  forms  a  thread,  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon. 

Pour  while  hot  over  Vanilla  or  Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

1-3  cup  butter.  1-3  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

1-3  cup  powdered  sugar.  2-3  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  flavoring. 

JELLY  SAUCE. 

1  glass  jelly.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

14  cup  hot  water.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Add  hot  water  to  jelly  and  let  melt  on  stove.  Heat  but- 
ter in  sauce  pan,  add  flour  and  gradually  the  hot  jelly  liquid. 
Cook  until  smooth  and  serve  hot  over  any  pudding. 

Or  the  jelly  may  be  placed  on  stove  and  melted  with  hot 
water. 

BRANDY   SAUCE. 
1  Qgg,  well  beaten,  1  cup  sugar. 

y2  cup  butter.  Brandy. 

Stir  mixture  to  a  cream  and  add  1  tablespoon  boiling 
water,  put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  until  sauce  boils,  then 
add  brandy  to  suit  taste.     Serve  with  Plum  Pudding. 

Or,  beat  into  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  enough  pulverized 
sugar  to  thicken  them,  add  tablespoon  brandy  and  stir  in 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  the  last  thing. 


176  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 

Put  1-3  cup  sugar  in  a  spider,  stir  over  the  fire  until  melted 

and  light  brown;  add  very  gradually  Y^  cup  of  boiling  water 

and  simmer  10  minutes;  or,  melt  sugar  in  sauce  pan,  add  1 

pint  cream  and  set  over  hot  water  until  the  caramel  liquifies. 

KIRSCH  SAUCE. 

1  pt.  cold  water.  2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

1  cup  sugar.  ^  cup  cold  water. 

1  cup  Kirsch  wine. 
Place  sugar  and  water  on  stove.     Mix  cornstarch  in  cold 
water,  and  when  the  water  in  sauce  pan  is  boiling,  add  corn- 
starch and  stir  for  two  minutes.    Remove  from  fire  and  add 
Kirsch  and  stir  again.     Strain  and  serve  with  pudding. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

2  cups  hot  water.  1  lemon  rind  and  juice. 

1  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  corn  starch. 

2  tablespoons  butter. 
Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch,  add  the  boiling  water  gradu- 
ally, stirring  all  the  time.     Cook  8  or  10  minutes,  add  lemon 
juice  and  butter.     Serve  hot. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING. 

y^  lb.  maple  sugar,  scraped.       Butter,  size  of  an  ^gg, 
^  lb.  brown  sugar,  1>4  cups  cream. 

Mix  and  boil  slowly  for  forty  minutes.  Remove  from 
stove  and  stir  over  ice  until  the  proper  consistency  to  spread. 
If  too  stiff,  thin  with  cream.     Dip  knife  in  cream  to  spread. 

SPONGE  CAKE  FILLING— Chocolate. 

Yz  lb.  brown  sugar,  >^  cup  milk, 

^  lb.  grated  chocolate,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

scant,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS.  177 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM. 
No.  1. 

2  oz.  chocolate.  ^  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Stir  and  cook  in  double  boiler  to  the  consistency  of  mo- 
lasses and  serve  hot  with  Vanilla  ice  cream. 

No.  2. 
1  oz.  chocolate.  2^  cups  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  sugar.  2  in.  stick  cinnamon. 
1  cup  boiling  water.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water;  add  3  tablespoons  sugar 
and  gradually  the  boiling  water ;  stir  until  smooth  and  glossy  ; 
add  the  remaining  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  stir  until  boil- 
ing begins;  let  boil  5  minutes;  strain,  cool  and  add  vanilla. 

SOUR  CREAM  FILLING  (No.  1.) 

1  cup  pecans  or  walnuts,  }i  cup  confectioner's  sugar, 

1  small  tgg,  Yz  cup  sour  cream, 

A  few  drops  of  vanilla. 
Run  nutmeats  through  meat-chopper.     Beat  the  ^gg  well; 
add  the  sugar  and  nutmeats,  then  cream  and  vanilla,  stirring 
it  only  enough  to  mix.     Spread  between  the  layers  and  over 
top  of  cake  when  cold. 

SOUR  CREAM  FILLING  (No.  2.) 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  sugar, 

y^  lb.  chopped  nuts. 
Boil    sugar   and   cream   until   quite   thick,   then   add   the 
chopped  nuts  and  spread  between  layers  of  chocolate  cake. 

FIG  FILLING. 

1  lb.  figs,  Vi  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  boiling  water,         "  Juice  of  Yi  lemon. 

Put  figs  through  chopper.  Mix  all  together  and  let  sim- 
mer and  cook  slowly  until  it  becomes  a  smooth  paste.  Let 
cool  before  using.     If  desired,  add  1.  tablespoon  sherry  wine. 


178  FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS. 

NUT   OR  FRUIT  FILLING. 
J^  cup  fruit  (chopped  fine),     ^  cup  nuts  (chopped  fine), 
Boiled  frosting. 
To  Boiled  Icing  add  one  cup  chopped  walnuts,  almonds, 
pecans,  hickory,  hazel  nuts,  chopped  figs,  dates,  raisins  or  se- 
lected prunes,  separately  or  in  combination. 

WHIPPED    CREAM    FILLING    WITH    PINEAPPLE 
AND  NUTS. 

1  yolk  of  tggj  y^  cup  whipped  cream, 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,     1  cup  nut  kernels,  or  %  cup 

nuts  and  ^  cup  pineapple. 
Whip  cream,  same  as  above,  using  one-half  cupful  nuts 
and  one-half  cupful  pineapple,  all  chopped  up. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  FILLING. 

}i  cup  thick  cream.  White  of  1  egg, 

%.  cup  powdered  sugar,  5^  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Set  medium  sized  bowl  in  pan  of  crushed  ice  to  which 
water  has  been  added.  Place  cream  in  bowl  and  beat  until 
stiff,  with  wire  whip  or,  if  possible,  use  patent  cream  whipper. 
Whip  up  well  that  air  bubbles  may  not  be  too  large.  Add 
sugar,  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff,  and  vanilla.     Keep  cool. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

J4  cup  sugar,  >^  cup  grated  chocolate, 

Yz  cup  milk.  Yolk  of  one  egg, 

%  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Melt  chocolate,   add   sugar  and  milk,   and  boil   when   it 
forms   a  soft  ball   in  cold  water,   remove   from   fire.     Add 
beaten  yolk  and  vanilla.     Cool  and  spread  between  layers. 

NUT  FILLING. 

2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  cup  milk, 

J^  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch, 

y2  cup  pecan  nutmeats,  chopped  fine. 


FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS.  179 

» 

Wet  cornstarch  withj  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  place  in 
double  boiler  with  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  cook  until  smooth ; 
beat  yolks  to  a  light  cream  with  the  sugar,  pour  hot  milk 
gradually  over,  return  to  boiler  and  cook  until  it  coats  the 
spoon,  stirring  constantly;  remove  from  fire  and  when  cool 
add  nutmeats. 

MARSHMALLOW  FROSTING. 

Yz  lb.  marshmallows,  Whites  of  2  eggs, 

%  cup  milk  of  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Break  the  marshmallows  in  pieces,  add  milk  or  water,  and 
put  in  double  boiler,  over  boiling  water.  Stir  until  melted. 
Take  from  fire  and  while  hot,  pour  into  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.     Add  vanilla. 

BOILED  ICING. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flavoring, 

1/3  cup  water,  1  ^gg  white  (large), 

^4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Beat  white  of  ^gg  until  frothy,  add  the  cream  of  tartar 
and  beat  until  stiff  and  dry.  Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water. 
When  it  has  reached  the  honey  stage,  or  drops  heavily  from 
spoon,  add  5  tablespoons  slowly  to  t%g,  beating  in  well.  Then 
cook  the  remainder  of  the  syrup  until  it  threads  and  pour  over 
the  ^gg,  beating  thoroughly.  Add  flavoring  and  beat  until 
cool  enough  to  spread. 

BOILED  CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

2  oz.  chocolate,  2  whites  of  eggs, 

Yz  cup  cream,  Vanilla, 

Powdered  sugar. 
Boil  chocolate  and  cream  and  when  cool  add  vanilla.     Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,   add  powdered  sugar  until  stiff 
enough  to  cut     Combine  the  two  mixtures,  beat  and  spread. 


Chafing  Disn  Specialties 


HOW  TO  USE  THE  CHAFING  DISH. 

A  chafing  dish  ought  to  be  of  extra  heavy  tin  or  some 
other  metal  tinned  or  nickel-plated.  A  large  flame  alcohol 
lamp  should  be  underneath  so  as  to  have  a  good  heat  if 
needed,  or  a  smaller  lamp  only  to  be  used  if  light  heat  is 
required.  In  cooking  oysters  or  similar  articles  a  brisk  heat 
is  necessary,  for  making  rarebits  less  fire  is  used.  The  blazer 
with  the  waterpan  underneath  is  more  for  the  purpose  of 
heating  ready-made  things  or  keeping  them  hot,  and  only 
good  for  preparing  articles  which  require  little  cooking. 

CHEESE  DELIGHT.    . 

Chop  five  ounces  of  soft  cheese  into  small  bits  and  put 
into  a  chafing  dish  with  one  egg,  a  level  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  half  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  five  tablespoon fuls  of  milk. 
Cook  over  boiling  water  until  the  cheese  is  soft  and  creamy, 
then  set  where  it  will  keep  hot  without  cooking  for  a  few 
minutes.  Toast  five  slices  of  bread  and  keep  hot.  Poach 
two  eggs  for  each  slice.  Spread  the  cheese  mixture  quickly 
over  each  slice  of  toast  and  place  over  this  two  eggs  on  each 
piece.  Have  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  rubbed 
together,  put  a  tiny  bit  on  each  egg  and  serve  at  once.  This 
makes  a  delicious  tid-bit  for  "unpremeditated"  suppers. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Mix  together  in  the  chafing  dish  one  wine-glassful  of  ale, 
one  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  English  mustard.  Then  add  one-half  a  pound  of 
cheese  cut  fine,  season  with  salt,  black  and  cayenne  pepper. 
When  the  liquid  gets  boiling  hot  and  the  cheese  begins  to  melt 
stir  it  up  vigorously  with  a  spoon  so  it  will  become  very 
smooth,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time.     Then 


CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES.  181 

pour  it  over  some  toasted  bread,  plain  or  buttered.  Crackers 
can  be  substituted  if  no  toast  is  on  hand.  If  the  rarebit  is 
wanted  short  (not  stringy),  the  yolk  of  an  tgg  can  be  added 
at  the  last  moment.     Serve  with  crackers. 

GOLDEN  BUCK. 

Prepare  the  Welsh  rarebit  as  before,  pour  it  over  three 
thick  slices  of  toast  and  put  a  poached  or  dropped  Qgg  on  top 
of  each  piece. 

YORKSHIRE  BUCK. 

Prepare  the  rarebit  the  same  way  as  Golden  Buck,  adding 
two  slices  of  broiled  or  fried  bacon,  one  on  each  side  of  the 
poached  eggs. 

MACARONI  RAREBIT. 

Into  a  chafing  dish  put  one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  When 
hot  add  one  small  cupful  of  cold  boiled  macaroni  cut  fine, 
to  it  add  one  small  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  two  well 
beaten  eggs.  Dust  with  pepper.  Cook  until  set,  and  serve 
on  toast.    If  cheese  is  fresh  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

CHICKEN  LIVERS  a  la  OSCAR. 

Boil  for  twenty  minutes  a  heaping  cup  of  chicken  livers. 
Cut  them  up  into  small  pieces  and  add  a  tender  sausage  cut 
in  thin  slices.  Mix  well  together  and  add  one  tender  onion 
chopped  very  fine,  several  slices  of  Spanish  peppers,  a  tea- 
spoon of  curry  powder  and  some  salt  and  pepper.  Have  in 
the  chafing  dish  a  half  cup  of  olive  oil  very  hot  and  into  this 
pour  the  mixture.  Cook  until  the  sausage  is  done  and  serve 
on  hot  toast  with  sprigs  of  watercress. 

CHICKEN  LIVERS  WITH  CURRY. 

Clean  and  separate  six  chicken  livers.  Dip  in  seasoned 
crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  in  butter.  Remove  livers, 
and  to  fat  in  blazer  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one- 
half   tablespoon    finely    chopped   onion.     Cook   five   minutes, 


182  CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES. 

add  three  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon 
curry  between  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon paprika.     Strain  sauce  over  livers. 

CRABS  A  LA  RICHMOND. 

Cook  a  cup  crab  meat  in  one  teaspoon  bilttei*  and  two  table- 
spoons sherry  wine,  two  minutes.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-third  cup 
milk  and  one-third  cup  clam  broth.  Add  crab  meat  and  the 
soft  part  of  eighteen  clams  to  sauce.  When  thoroughly  heated, 
season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Just  before  serving  add  one  table- 
spoon brandy  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten. 

LYONNAISE  TRIPE. 

Wipe  tripe  and  cut  in  pieces  two  inches  long  by  one  and 
one-half  inches  wide;  there  should  be  three  cups.  Put  in 
blazer  cover,  let  stand  for  one  minute  that  some  of  the  mois- 
ture may  be  withdrawn  and  drain.  Cook  two  tablespoons 
butter  with  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion  until  yellow, 
add  tripe  and  cook  eight  minutes,  using  more  butter  if  nec- 
essary. Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

DEVILED  SCALLOPS. 

Clean  one  pint  scallops,  heat  to  boiling  point,  drain,  and 
reserve  liquor.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  mustard,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Pour  on  grad- 
ually the  reserved  liquor.  When  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  add 
the  scallops.     Serve  with  brown  bread  sandwiches. 

LITTLE  PIGS  IN  BLANKETS. 

Choose  large  plump  oysters  and  wrap  about  each  a  thin 
slice  of  fat  bacon,  pinning  it  with  a  wooden  toothpick.  Lay 
them  in  the  heated  blazer  and  cook  until  the  bacon  is  crisp. 


CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES.  183 

MUSHROOMS  RUSSELL. 

Take  two  pounds  of  mushrooms.  Peel  them  and  place 
in  a  chafing  dish  in  which  a  cup  of  best  butter  has  been 
melted.  Add  one  Spanish  onion  sliced  fine.  Allow  to  cook 
one-half  hour  in  tightly  covered  dish.  While  cooking,  add 
salt  and  pepper.  Before  removing  from  flame,  add  one-half 
pint  of  pure  cream.     Serve  hot  on  toast. 

RECHAUFFE  OF  DUCK. 

Warm  in  a  blazer  two  tablespoonsfuls  of  butter,  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  currant  jelly,  and  a  gill  of  Sherry,  Madeira 
or  Port.  Lay  in  this  sauce  pieces  of  cold  duck,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cook  five  minutes.  This  is  an  excellent 
sauce  in  which  to  warm  wild  duck  or  other  game. 

OYSTERS  a  la  SOMERSET. 

Put  in  chafing  dish  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
add  a  heaping  teaspoon ful  of  finely  chopped  onion,  fry  to  a 
light  yellow  color,  add  three  heaping  tablespoon  ful  s  of  finely 
chopped  celery  and  two  cups  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquid, 
boil  till  done,  season  to  taste,  then  add  three  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fresh  bread  crumbs,  half  a  gill  of  cream,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Let  come  to  a  boil, 
and  serve.     Enough  for  four. 

BARBECUED  HAM. 

Cut  rather  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham,  lay  them  in  the 
blazer,  and  let  them  fry  in  their  own  fat.  When  they  begin 
to  crisp,  draw  them  to  the  side  of  the  dish,  and  add  to  the 
fat  in  the  pan  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  a  small  teaspoonful 
of  white  sugar,  a  saltspoonful  of  mustard,  and  a  little  pepper. 
Mix  well,  put  the  meat  into  the  sauce— bring  this  to  a  boil 
and  cook  two  minutes. 

This  is  extremely  good. 


184  CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES. 

SARDINETTE  a  la  WELSH. 

Take  four  cans  of  sardines,  one  pint  bottle  of  ketchup, 
one  can  of  French  peas.  Put  them  all  together  in  a  chafing 
dish,  using  the  blazer.     Serve  on  crackers  or  toast. 

CLAMS  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

Put  one  tablespoonful  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
onion,  four  tablespoonfuls  finely  chopped  peppers  in  the 
chafer  and  cook  without  browning.  Add  half  cupful  strained 
clam  juice,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika,  and  one 
dozen  finely  chopped  clams.  Simmer  for  five  minutes  and 
pour  over  hot  buttered  toast. 

CHEESE  FRITTERS. 

Mix  four  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  with  two 
tablespoons  stale  bread  crumbs.  Beat  four  eggs  thoroughly 
and  add  to  first  mixture.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 
Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  in  small  cakes  on  a  hot  buttered 
blazer.     Brown  one  side,  turn,  brown  on  other. 

TOMATOES  AND  EGGS. 

One-half  can  tomatoes,  four  or  five  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful butter,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  chopped  onion.  Melt  but- 
ter in  chafing  dish,  put  in  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper 
and  onions.    Let  boil,  then  add  eggs  well  beaten. 

CHICKEN  a  la  HAMILTON. 

Melt  one-half  tumblerful  of  currant  jelly  in  a  blazer,  add 
one  cupful  of  thick  cream  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry, 
then  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Stir  in  one-fourth  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  diluted  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
milk  and  stir  until  the  sauce  thickens.  Add  slices  of  chicken, 
and  cook  until  the  chicken  is  thoroughly  heated. 


CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES.  185 


CHICKEN  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

1  pint  cooked  chicken,  in  y^  teaspoon  pepper, 
large  dice,  1  cup  cream, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Yolks  of  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  14  cup  Sherry  wine. 

1  teaspoon  salt, 

Melt  butter  in  chafing  dish,  add  flour;  cook  one  minute, 
then  add  cream;  cook  three  minutes,  add  chicken,  warm 
through;  add  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine.  Mix  a  little  cold 
water  with  the  slightly  beaten  yolks,  pour  them  gradually 
into  the  cooking. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  NEWBURG. 
In  Chafing  Dish. 
Take  two  cups  of  oysters,  and  boil  in  their  own  liquid 
till  done.  Drain  off  two-thirds  of  the  liquid  and  replace 
with  same  amount  of  good  cream.  When  boiling  add  yolks 
of  three  eggs  to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream,  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  and  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
good  butter.  Stir  till  it  thickens,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry  and  one  of  brandy.  Serve  immediately.  Enough  for 
four. 


OYSTERS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

In  Chafing  Dish. 

Take  two  cups  of  oysters  and  boil  in  their  own  Hquid  for 
about  five  minutes.  Dilute  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch with  a  gill  of  white  wine,  stir  into  the  oysters  while 
boiling,  and  add  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten  in  one-half 
gill  of  cream  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Then  add  two 
heaping  dessert-spoonfuls  of  butter,  stir  slowly  for  a  minute 
or  two.  Do  not  let  come,  to  a  boil.  Serve.  SHced  canned 
mushrooms  can  be  added  if  desired.     Enough  for  four. 


186  CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES. 

OYSTER  STEW,  PHILADELPHIA  STYLE. 
In  Chafing  Dish,  for  Two  People. 

To  a  cup  of  oysters  stewed  in  their  own  Hquid  add  half  a 
cupful  of  hot  cream.  Add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, two  tablespoons  sherry,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

OYSTER  CRABS  AND  SWEETBREAD  A  LA 

GOURMET. 

In  Chafing  Dish,  for  Two  People. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  two  medium- 
sized  fresh  mushrooms,  cut  in  cubes,  and  a  parboiled  sweet- 
bread cut  in  very  small  thin  slices.  Fry  together  for  at  least 
ten  minutes,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  oyster  crabs  well  drained, 
cook  till  oyster  crabs  turn  to  a  nice  red,  add  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sherry,  and  one  gill  of  cream.  Let  come  to  a  boil, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  a  walnut,  stir  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  mixed  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  cream,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy.  Season 
to  taste.     Stir  for  another  minute  and  serve. 

SARDINES  ON  TOAST. 

6  medium  sized  sardines,  ^  glass  white  wine, 

1  teaspoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  anchovy  paste. 

Pinch  of  white  pepper. 
Cook  butter,  anchovy  paste  and  wine  together  in  a  chafing 
dish,  add  the  sardines,  heat  and  place  each  sardine  on  but- 
tered toast  size  of  same.     Serve  very  hot. 

SHREDDED  HAM  WITH  CURRANT  JELLY  SAUCE. 

One-half  cupful  butter,  one-third  cupful  currant  jelly, 
few  grains  cayenne  pepper,  one-fourth  cupful  of  sherry 
wine,  one  cupful  cold  cooked  ham  cut  in  small  strips.  Put 
butter  and  jelly  in  the  chafing  dish.  As  soon  as  melted, 
add  cayenne,  wine  and  ham.    Let  simmer  five  minutes. 


CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES.  187 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

Take  one  large  lobster,  a  pint  of  sweet  thick  cream,  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoon fuls  of  sherry  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Boil  the  lobster  for  fifteen  min- 
utes. Pick  out  the  meat  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Pour 
over  it  the  cream  and  add  the  butter,  which  has  been  suf- 
ficiently melted  to  run;  last  add  the  flour.  Warm  the  whole 
over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly ;  when  thoroughly  blended  and 
smooth  and  creamy  add  the  sherry.  This  is  best  made  in  a 
chafing  dish. 

CREAMED  CRAB  MEAT. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  pt.  crab  meat, 

Yi  cup  bread  c^um.bs,  2  yolks,  beaten, 

1  cup  cream.  Salt, 

3^  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  Cayenne   pepper   or   Tobasco 

sauce. 
Put  the  first  four  ingredients  into  chafing  dish;  when  it 
boils,  stir  in  the  rest. 

STEAK  MANSFIELD. 

The  late  Richard  Mansfield  was  a  fine  cook,  and  some  of 
his  favorite  recipes  have  been  preserved  by  his  friends  who 
were  his  guests  at  times,  and  who  often  watched  him  preside 
over  the  chafing  dish.  The  following  was  one  of  Mr. 
Mansfield^s  most  favored  dishes : 

Cut  a  piece  of  suet  about  the  size  of  an  ^gg  into  small  bits 
and  put  it  in  the  chafing  dish.  Also  add  the  same  amount  of 
butter.  When  this  melts  and  is  hot,  place  in  the  dish  a  fine 
porterhouse  steak  about  three  inches  thick.  It  is  better  to 
have  the  bone  removed,  if  serving  for  many  persons.  Let 
the  steak  get  hot  on  both  sides,  and  then  cut  the  surface  with 
a  sharp  knife.  Turn  the  steak  about  every  five  minutes,  and 
baste  with  the  juice,  the  same  as  with  chicken.  As  it  begins 
to  cook,  add  the  following:     One-half  of  a  green  pepper,  the 


188  CHAFING  DISH  SPECIALTIES. 

heart  of  a  piece  of  celery  and  a  bit  of  parsley,  all  of  which 
have  been  chopped  fine.  Also,  some  stuffed  olives  and  some 
mushrooms,  cut  in  two.  Sprinkle  the  steak  with  paprika 
while  cooking,  and  salt  after  taking  out.  Mr.  Mansfield 
used  to  rub  the  dish  with  garlic  before  beginning  to  cook 
the  steak.  About  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes  are  required 
for  the  process,  but  it  is  worth  trymg. 

RICTUM— DITY. 

1  can  tomatoes,  1  green  pepper,  chopped, 

1  cup  grated  cheese,  2  tablespgons  butter, 

Yi  small  grated  onion,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  tomatoes,  cheese,  onion  juice  and  the  pepper,  chop- 
ped. Melt  the  butter,  in  chafing  dish,  add  the  mixture,  and 
when  heated  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook  until  eggs 
are  of  creamy  consistency,  stirring  and  scraping  from  bot- 
tom of  pan.    Serve  at  once. 

'  LARDED  SWEETBREADS,  SAUT6. 

Parboil  and  blanch  the  sweetbreads,  and  run  through  each 
four  or  five  thin  strips  of  fat  salt  pork.  Do  this  with  a  lard- 
ing-needle,  or  a  sharp,  narrow-bladed  knife,  and  let  the  ends 
of  the  pork  project  on  each  side.  Have  a  tablespoon ful  of 
butter  in  the  blazer,  and  cook  the  sweetbreads  in  this,  turn- 
ing often.     Let  them  cook  rather  slowly. 

CURRIED  SHRIMPS. 

One  can  shrimps,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  flour,  half  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  curry  pow- 
der, one  teaspoonful  chutney  sauce,  one  pint  boiling  water. 

Cook  the  butter  and  onion  in  the  blazer,  when  the  latter  is 
brown,  add  the  flour  and  curry  powder,  cook  until  they  bub- 
ble and  pour  the  boiling  water  upon  them.  Stir  constantly 
and  when  smooth  put  in  chutney  sauce  and  the  shrimps. 
They  should  cook  about  five  minutes. 


Cheese    Dishes 


CHEESE  BALLS  (No.  1.) 

1  cake  Neufchatel  cheese,  6  dashes  Tabasco  sauce, 

Piece  of  butter  half  the  size       1  tablespoon  cream, 
of  cheese,  %.  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  all  well  together  in  a  bowl  and  form  one  large  ball 
or  small  ones  for  each  person,  and  roll  in  chopped  pecan 
nuts. 

CHEESE  BALLS  (No.  2.) 

The  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese, 
salt,  and  cayenne.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  in  the 
cheese,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper.  Shape  the  mixture  into 
balls  the  size  of  marbles,  and  drop  them  into  boiling  lard. 
Fry  them  for  about  five  minutes  till  a  golden  brown,  drain 
well,  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

CHEESE  ROULETTES. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  a  cupful  of  dry  grated 
cheese — Parmesan  is  preferred.  Whip  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  stiff  and  mix  in  the  cheese.  Flour  the  hands  and  mold 
the  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts.  Drop  into  boil- 
ing fat  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Lay  on  crumpled  paper  to 
absorb  the  grease.     Serve  hot. 

PARMESAN  CROQUETTES. 

These  may  be  prepared,  and  even  fried  the  day  before,  and 
then  carefully  heated  in  the  oven  when  required. 

Required:  Quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
two  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  tgg 
and  two  extra  yolks,  salt  and  cayenne,  crumbs  for  coating, 
frying  fat. 

Mix  together  the  crumbs,  cheese,  warmed  butter,  and  sea- 
soning. Then  add  enough  beaten  yolk  to  bind  them  all  in  a 
soft  paste,  but  it  must  be  sufficiently  stiff  to  shape  easily. 

Make  the  mixture  into  small    balls,    like    large    marbles. 


190  CHEESE  DISHES. 

Brush  these  over  with  beaten  egg,  then  coat  them  with  crumbs. 
Repeat  this  egging  and  crumbing,  so  that  they  have  two  coat- 
ings. 

Have  ready  a  pan  of  frying  fat.  When  a  bluish  smoke 
rises  from  it  put  in  the  balls  two  or  three  at  a  time,  and  fry 
them  a  pretty  golden  brown.  Drain  them  well  on  paper 
and  serve  them  piled  up  on  a  lace  paper  on  a  hot  dish. 

STUFFED  CELERY. 
Take  some  celery  stalks,  one  head  for  each  person,  clean 
and  peel.  .Cut  in  four  pieces  lengthwise  so  that  the  pieces 
will  hang  together  at  the  root.  Mix  together  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Roquefort  and  two  teaspoon fuls  of  cream  cheese,  sea- 
son with  paprika,  and  add  a  pinch  of  finely  cut  chives.  Stir 
until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed  and  then  put  in  a  paper  cor- 
net. Take  the  celery  and  lift  leaf  by  leaf  and  squeeze  the 
cheese  between  the  celery  stalks.  Served  on  chopped  ice 
covered  with  a  napkin. 

ENGLISH  MONKEY. 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  milk,  1  egg, 

Yz  cup  soft,  mild  cheese  in         J4  teaspoon  salt, 
small  pieces,  Few  grains  cayenne. 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk  15  minutes.  Melt  the  but- 
ter, add  the  cheese  and  when  melted  add  soaked  bread,  t,%^ 
slightly  beaten  and  seasonings.  Cook  three  minutes  and 
pour  over  toasted  crackers. 

CR6ME  AUX  ALMONDS. 
Take  one  cream  cheese,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  salted 
almonds   crushed,   and   two  liquor-glasses    of    Kirschwasser. 
Mix  well  and  serve  in  croquette  shape. 


CHEfiSE  DISHES.  191 

ROQUEFORT  AU  PORT. 

Take  an  eighth  of  a  pound  of  Roquefort  cheese,  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  heavy  port  wine,  add  paprika  pepper 
to  taste  and  mix  the  whole  together  well.  Mix  this  with 
cracker  dust  and  serve  in  the  shape  of  croquettes. 


FROMAGE  ROMANESQUE. 

"Fromage  Romanesque"  is  enough  to  make  an  epicure's 
mouth  water.  It  is  as  delicious  a  cheese  dish  as  one  could 
imagine. 

The  cheese  used  in  its  making  is  the  common  cream  or 
Neufchatel  variety  and  two  of  the  second  sized  cakes  are 
used  for  this  recipe — that  is,  the  size  we  call  the  ten-cent 
size  in  this  country.  The  other  ingredients  are  three  eggs, 
three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  very  thick,  sour  cream;  five 
teaspoonfuls  of  clear  honey  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
First,  beat  the  cheese  and  sour  cream  together  until  smooth 
as  paste;  then  add  the  honey  and  blend  in  carefully,  then 
the  salt,  then  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  three  eggs,  and 
lastly  the  whites  beaten  stifHy. 

Beat  the  whole  mixture  vigorously  for  a  few  minutes 
and  then  either  pour  into  cases  of  thin  puff  paste  and  bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven  or  bake  in  an  oiled 
or  buttered  baking  dish,  without  pastry,  which  makes  it  a 
sort  of  cheese  souffle,  which  pulls  far  up  and  should  be 
served  with  a  cheese  sauce  made  by  beating  together  equal 
parts  of  thick,  sweet  cream  and  cream  cheese.  These 
should  be  first  blended  with  a  spoon  and  then  beaten  with 
an  egg-beater.  Sometimes  sprinkle  in  chopped  olives  in 
the  sauce. 


192  CHEESE  DISHES. 

CHEESE  EN  SURPRISE. 

The  following  recipe  will  be  found  most  appetizing  when 
served  at  one's  dinner  in  place  of  the  usual  Roquefort,  Neuf- 
chatel,  or  Camembert,  and  will  prove  extremely  tasty  for 
the  little  midnight  lunches.  A  little  time  and  patience  are 
required  in  preparing  it,  and  to  some  it  may  seem  a  trifle 
expensive,  but  I  find  that  I  can  prepare  enough  to  serve 
six  people  at  a  cost  of  about  40  cents.  Mix  thoroughly  to- 
gether in  a  bowl  one  10  cent  cake  of  fresh  cream  cheese 
with  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  Roquefort.  Add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  a  dash  of  paprika,  a  scant  table- 
spoonful  of  Worchestershire  sauce,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  thick  rich  cream.  Use  one  green  and  one 
red  pepper  (see  that  these  are  firm  and  fresh)  and  take 
half  of  the  green  pepper  and  about  two-thirds  of  the  red. 
and  with  a  10  cent  bottle  of  olives  (stuffed  ones  are  also 
nice  for  this  purpose)  mince  all  finely  together,  and  stir 
this  mixture  into  the  cheese,  seeing  that  it  is  evenly  scat- 
tered throughout  the  cheese.  Take  the  whole  and  form  in 
mound  shape  upon  an  attractive  cheese  dish;  then  take  the 
remaining  half  of  the  green  pepper  and  cut  in  uniform 
strips,  and  garnish  four  sides  of  cheese.  Take  rest  of  red 
pepper,  cut  in  star  shape  and  place  on  top.  When  finished 
put  immediately  in  the  ice  box  and  leave  there  until  served. 
To  those  who  are  fond  of  cheese  this  will  be  a  treat. 


Bakery  and  Breakfast  Diskes 


CINNAMON  TOAST  A  LA  WOOD  FOR  TWO  PEO- 
PLE. 

Three  slices  brown  toast,  butter  while  hot;  use  cinna- 
mon with  granulated  sugar;  put  on  top  of  buttered  toast 
thick  while  hot;  cut  in  small  strips. 

CROUTONS. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  one-third  inch  slices.  Trim  off  the 
crust  and  spread  thinly  with  butter.  Cut  slices  into  one-third 
inch  cubes;  place  in  dripping  pan  and  bake  until  delicately 
browned  in  a  hot  oven.  Or  these  cubes  may  be  fried  a  golden 
brown  in  deep,  hot  fat;  drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  before  serving. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

2  eggs,  2/3  cup  milk, 

y2  teaspoon  salt,  6  slices  of  stale  bread. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  salt  and  milk,  dip  the  bread  in 
the  mixture.  Have  a  griddle  hot  and  well  buttered;  brown 
the  bread  on  each  side.  Serve  hot  with  cinnamon  and  sugar 
or  a  sauce. 

CREAM  OR  MILK  TOAST. 

2  cups  milk*  or  cream,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

1  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Cook  the  flour  in  the  melted  butter.  Add  salt  and  gradu- 
ally stir  in  the  hot  milk.  After  it  thickens,  pour  this  sauce 
over  slices  of  dry  or  water  toast ;  or  butter  the  dry  hot  toast, 
add  y2  tablespoon  salt  to  one  cup  of  hot  milk,  and  pour  it 
over  the  toast.     Serve  hot. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  %  cup  grated  cheese, 
Yo  cup  flour,  Ys  teaspoon  salt, 

3  tablespoons  breadcrumbs,         1  tgg. 
Pinch  cayenne  pepper, 


194  BREAKFAST  DISHES. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  dry  ingredients,  and  mix  all  to- 
gether with  the  egg.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  long,  narrow  strips  and 
bake  in  a  quick,  hot  oven.  If  desired  a  variety  of  shapes  may 
be  made.  The  strips  may  be  twisted  in  corkscrew  fashion,  or 
into  rings  with  doughnut  cutter. 

RUSSIAN  TEA  CAKES. 

1  cup  sugar,  Flour  to  roll, 

1  cup  eggs  (about  5),  ^  lb.  brick  butter,  sliced, 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  chopped  almonds. 

Mix  eggs,  sugar  and  cream  with  enough  flour  to  roll. 
Toss  on  board,  roll  out  ^  inch  thick,  spread  with  a  thin  layer 
of  the  butter,  fold  the  dough  over,  roll  and  spread  again  with 
butter ;  fold,  roll  and  spread  again ;  repeat  three  or  four  times. 
Then  place  dough  in  a  bowl,  cover,  and  let  stand  on  ice  to 
harden.  Then  roll  as  thin  as  possible,  strew  with  chopped 
almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  cut  into  7  inch  strips.  Roll 
each  strip  separately  into  a  roll,  cut  into  squares  and  strew 
top  with  chopped  almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven. 

BATTER  FOR  FRITTERS  (No.  1.) 

1  1/3  cups  flour,  2/3  cup  milk,      ^ 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,         I  egg. 
^  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually  and 
the  egg  well  beaten. 

BATTER  FOR  FRITTERS  (No.  2.) 

1  egg,  yi  teaspoon  salt, 

^  cup  water  or  milk,  Yi  cup  flour, 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Beat  the  yolk  and  the  white  of  the  egg  separately.     To  the 
yolk  add  the  butter  and  salt  and  one-half  of  the  liquid,  and 
stir  in  the  flour  to  make  a  smooth  dough.    Add  the  remainder 


B-REAKFAST  DISHES.  195 

of  the  liquid  gradually  to  make  a  batter,  and  beat  in  the  stiff 
white  of  the  egg. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

4  bananas,  3  tablespoons  sherry  wine, 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  Powdered  sugar. 

Process:  Remove  the  skins  from  ripe  bananas;  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise,  then  cut  halves  in  two  pieces  crosswise. 
Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  sherry;  dredge  heavily  with 
powdered  sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  one-half  hour;  drain  and 
dip  each  piece  in  Batter  No.  2 ;  fry  in  deep  hot  fat  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.     Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

1  can  corn,  or  j/z  teaspoon  salt, 

6  raw  ears  of  corn,  3  tablespoons  milk, 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour. 

Grate  the  corn  off  the  cobs,  or  strain  the  canned  corn. 
To  the  pulp  add  the  yolks  beaten,  the  rest  of  the  ingredients 
and  the  beaten  whites  last. 

Drop  by  teaspoon fuls  in  deep,  hot  fat  and  fry  until  nicely 
brown  on  a  hot  greased  griddle  or  frying  pan.  Serve  with 
hot  syrup. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS. 

I       Drain  the  slices  of  canned  pineapple  from  the  liquor  and 

'  dip  each  slice  in  the  following  batter ;  fry  in  hot  fat,  drain  on 

soft  brown  paper  and  serve  with  fruit  juice  sauce  or  sprinkle 

with  powdered  sugar. 

QUEEN  FRITTERS. 

^2  cup  boiling  milk  or  water,     2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar, 
ji  cup  butter,  2  eggs, 

y2  cup  flour,  Pinch  of  salt, 

Fruit  preserves. 


196  BREAKFAST  DISHES. 

Put  butter  in  small  saucepan  and  pour  on  water.  Heat  to 
boiling  point,  add  flour  all  at  once  and  stir  until  mixture  leaves 
sides  of  saucepan  and  cleaves  to  spoon.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  constantly.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  well  puffed  and  browned. 

Drain,  make  an  opening,  fill  with  preserves  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES. 

2/3  cup  butter,  1  cup  rolled  raw  oats, 

2/3  cup  brown  sugar,  •  1  cup  flour, 

1  egg,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  egg,  the  oats,  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Mix  well,  if  too  dry  add  a  little  cream. 
Toss  on  floured  board,  roll  thin  and  cut  into  rounds.  Place 
in  buttered  pans  and  bake  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

POPOVERS. 

%  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk, 

1  cup  flour,  1  egg. 

Sift  flour  and  salt  into  a  bowl.  Beat  the  egg  and  add  the 
milk  to  it,  and  stir  gradually  into  the  flour  to  make  a  smooth 
batter.  Beat  with  egg-beater  until  full  of  air  bubbles.  Fill 
hot  greased  gem  pans  two-thirds  full  of  the  mixture.  Bake  in 
quick  oven  30  to  40  minutes,  until  brown  and  popped  over. 

WAFFLES. 

1  pint  flour,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,      2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beat 
^  teaspoon  salt,  separately, 

1  cup  milk. 
Mix  in  the  ordejr  given,  and  bake  at  once  on  hot,  well 
greased  wafile  iron.     If  the  batter  is  too  stiff,  more  milk  may 
b^  used.     Serve  with  syrup. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES.  197 


RICE  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

2  cups  hot  boiled  rice,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  flour,  1  pint  milk, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,      2  eggs. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  The  beaten  yolks  are  added  to 
the  milk.  Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  lastly  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites.     Cook  as  Griddle  Cakes. 

WHEAT  MUFFINS. 

2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
Yz  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  molasses, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  ^gg, 

2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  milk. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sieve  twice,  rub  in  the  butter. 
Separate  the  ^gg.  Beat  the  yolk  and  add  it  to  the  milk  and 
molasses.  Mix  with  the  dry  ingredients  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Fold  in  the  beaten  white  of  ^gg  and  pour  into  hot,  well  greased 
muffin  tins.     Bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Note.  Graham,  rye,  cornmeal,  or  whole  wheat  muffins 
are  made  the  same  way,  by  mixing  with  the  wheat  flour  one- 
fourth  to  one-half  the  quantity  of  graham,  rye,  cornmeal  or 
whole  wheat  flour. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

2  cups  scalded  milk,  1  teaspoon   salt, 

3  tablespoons  butter,  1  ounce  compressed  yeast, 
2  tablespoons  sugar,                     %  cup  lukewarm  water, 

^Yz  cups  flour. 
Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add 
yeast  dissolved  in  the  lukewarm  water,  and  3  cups  of  flour. 
Beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  let  rise  until  light;  cut  down  and 
add  the  rest  of  the  flour  or  enough  to  knead.  Let  rise  again 
in  a  warm  place,  toss  on  slightly  floured  board,  knead,  pat  and 
roll  out  to  1/3  inch  thickness.  Shape  into  rounds,  with  bis- 
cuit cutter;  dip  the  handle  of  a  knife  in  flour  and  with  it 


198  BREAKFAST  DISHES. 

make  a  crease  through  the  middle  of  each  piece;  brush  over 
one-half  of  each  piece  with  melted  butter,  fold  and  press  edges 
together.  Place  in  greased  pan  one  inch  apart,  cover,  let  rise 
and.  bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

BAKING  POWDER  DUMPLINGS. 

1  cup  flour,  %  teaspoon  salt, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,      ^  cup  milk  or  water,  scant. 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  stir  in  the  milk  or  water  and  mix  to 
smooth  batter.  Drop  a  teaspoon ful  at  a  time  in  the  boiling 
soup;  cover  kettle,  let  boil  5  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

NOODLES. 

1  Qgg,  2/3  cup  flour  yi  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  ^gg  slightly,  add  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Roll  out  very  thin,  and  set  aside  to  dry  for  an  hour 
or  more.  It  must  not  be  the  least  bit  sticky  and  not  so  dry 
that  it  will  break  or  be  brittle. 

Fold  into  a  tight  roll,  or  cut  into  3  inch  strips,  placing  the 
strips  all  together  one  on  top  of  another.  Now  cut  these  long 
strips  crosswise  into  very  fine  strips  or  threads.  Toss  them 
up  lightly  with  fingers  to  separate  well,  and  spread  them  out 
on  the  board  to  dry.  When  thoroughly  dry,  put  in  covered 
jars  for  future  use.  Drop  by  handfuls  into  boiling  soup  5 
minutes  before  serving. 

POTATO  PANCAKES. 

6  raw  grated  potatoes,  1  teaspoon  salt, 

3  whole  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
A  pinch  of  baking  powder,        A  little  milk. 

Peel  large  potatoes  and  soak  several  hours  in  cold  water; 
grate,  drain,  and  for  every  pint,  allow  2  eggs,  about  1  table- 
spoon flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper.  Beat  eggs  well 
and  mix  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
on  a  hot  buttered  spider,  in  small  cakes.  Turn  and  brown 
on  both  sides.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES.  199 

FRENCH  PANCAKE. 

3  eggs,  separated,  y2  teaspoon  salt, 

y^  cup  flour,  1  cup  cold  water. 

Stir  yolks  with  the  salt  and  flour,  until  smooth,  add  milk 
gradually,  then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Heat  pan,  add  2 
tablespoons  butter  and  when  hot,  pour  in  pancake;  let  cook 
slowly  and  evenly  on  one  side,  finish  baking  in  oven. 

GERMAN  PANCAKE. 

2  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

1  cup  milk,  2y2  tablespoons  flour, 

2  tablespoons  butter. 

Beat  eggs  very  thoroughly  without  separating  the  yolks 
and  whites;  add  salt,  sift  in  the  flour,  add  the  milk  gradually, 
at  first  and  beat  the  whole  very  well.  Melt  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter in  a  large  frying  pan,  turn  mixture  in  and  cook  slowly 
until  brown  underneath.  Grease  the  bottom  of  a  large  pie 
plate,  slip  the  pancake  on  the  plate;  add  the  other  tablespoon 
of  butter  to  the  frying  pan,  when  hot,  turn  uncooked  side  of 
pancakes  down  and  brown.  Serve  at  once  with  sugar  and 
lemon  slices  or  with  any  desired  preserve  or  syrup. 

Or,  when  the  pancake  is  nicely  browned  on  the  one  side, 
the  remaining  tablespoon  of  butter  may  be  heated  in  another 
spider  and  the  uncooked  side  of  the  pancake  turned  down 
to  brown  slowly  on  this  frying  pan.  Slip  carefully  on  large 
heated  platter  and  serve  at  once. 


Sand 


v^iches 


To  make  sandwiches  is  a  plain  affair,  but  a  good  many 
do  not  know  how  to  make  them  properly  and  attractively. 
If  the  bread  is  cut  thin  and  of  an  equal  thickness  and  prop- 
erly buttered  and  the  meat  free  from  gristle  and  fat,  and  cut 
in  nice  thin  slices,  and  furthermore,  the  whole  sandwich  care- 
fully trimmed  into  a  nice  square  shape  and  then  cut  diag- 
onally, served  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  napkin,  it  will  always 
be  appreciated.  When,  however,  one  gets  two  chunks  of 
bread  with  thick  pieces  of  meat  between,  the  butter  un- 
evenly spread  on  the  bread,  it  will  rapidly  diminish  the 
appetite. 

Ham,  tongue,  roast  beef,  corned  beef,  lamb,  chicken,  veal 
and  ham,  and  turkey  sandwiches  are  all  made  in  the  same 
plain  way, — the  bread  and  meat  cut  thinly  and  the  butter 
softened  so  it  will  spread  evenly  over  the  bread.  The  fresh 
meat  sandwiches  are  seasoned  with  salt.  With  ham,  tongue 
and  beef  a  little  French  or  English  mustard  may  be  added 
according  to  taste. 

CLUB  SANDWICH. 

Toast  two  slices  of  bread  and  cover  them  thinly  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Place  two  slices  of  chicken,  white  meat 
only,  on  one  piece  of  toast.  On  top  of  this  place  one  or  two 
lettuce  leaves  and  sprinkle  some  salt  over  it.  Put  the  other 
piece  of  toast  on  top  of  this,  and  press  the  sandwich  together 
a  little  and  trim  nicely,  and  cut  the  sandwich  in  two  triangles. 
Serve  warm  if  possible. 

Sometimes  thin  slices  of  broiled  bacon,  sliced  tomatoes 
and  even  sliced  pickles  are  added  to  the  club  sandwich.  Bacon 
is  acceptable,  but  if  the  two  other  articles  are  added  the  com- 
bination is  superfluous. 


SANDWICHES.  201 


CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Melt  one  teaspoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  cup  grat- 
ed cheese;  season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce,  a  few  drops  onion  juice;  stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted 
and  smooth,  then  add  two  raw  egg  yolks  beaten  and  diluted 
with  one  cup  thin  cream  or  milk.  When  cold,  place  between 
slices  of  nut,  entire  wheat,  rye  or  white  bread. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES,  HOT. 

Grated  American  or  Bread, 

New  York  Cream  Cheese,  Butter. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  very  lightly,  sprinkle  generous- 
ly with  the  cheese;  press  two  slices  firmly  together,  cut  in 
half  and  toast  quickly.    Serve  at  once,  with  coffee. 

Or,  toast  circular  pieces  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  a  thick 
layer  of  grated  cheese,  seasoned  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Place 
in  shallow  pan  and  set  in  oven  to  bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 
Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  AND  ANCHOVY  SANDWICHES. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  vinegar, 

14  cup  grated  American  Salt,  paprika,  mustard, 

cheese,  Anchovy  essence. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  cheese  and  vinegar.  Season 
and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

RUSSIAN  SANDWICHES. 

Rub  to  a  paste  one  and  one-half  rolls  Neufchatel  cheese; 
to  this  add  one-half  cup  chopped  pecans  and  the  finely  chopped 
meat  of  twelve  olives ;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste ; 
moisten  mixture  with  mayonnaise  dressing  to  the  consistency 
to  spread  between  Saltines,  Zephrettes  or  any  crisp  cracker. 
Press  them  firmly  together. 


202  SANDWICHES. 


SALMON  SANDWICHES. 

Mince  salmon  very  fine  and  season  with  salt  and  pa- 
prika. Mix  into  a  paste  with  melted  butter.  Make  a  highly- 
seasoned  French  dressing  of  vinegar,  oil,  pepper  and  salt 
and  pour  over  cucumbers  which  have  been  peeled  and 
sliced  very  thin.  Set  them  on  the  ice  until  chilled.  Spread 
thin  slices  of  bread  with  salmon  mixture  and  put  a  slice 
of  cucumber  between  them.  The  bread  may  be  spread 
with  the  salmon  mixture  a  half  hour  before  serving,  but 
the  cucumber  slices  should  not  be  added  until  the  last 
minute. 

AN  INDIAN  SANDWICH. 

Cut  the  white  meat  of  a  cooked  chicken  in  small  pieces. 
Take  the  same  quantity  of  boiled  ham  and  four  freshened 
anchovies  and  mince.  Mix  two  cups  of  veloute  sauce  with 
one  dessertspoonful  of  curry  powder  thinned  with  a  little 
water.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  a  thick  sauce.  Add 
the  chicken  and  the  ham  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Cut 
slices  of  bread  and  fry  them  in  butter  until  light  brown. 
Spread  on  the  mixture  and  cover  the  sandwiches,  serving 
while  hot. 

CHICKEN  AND  NUT  SANDWICH. 

The  white  meat  of  a  chicken  which  has  been  roasted  or 
boiled  is  chopped  very  fine,  and  to  one  cupful  of  it  is  added  a 
quarter  of  a  cup  blanched  almonds  or  English  walnuts,  also 
chopped  fine.  This  is  softened  with  sweet  cream  to  a  paste 
that  will  spread  easily  on  the  bread.  It  can  be  used  on  either 
graham  or  white  bread. 

SHRIMP  SANDWICHES. 

Pick  one-half  pint  of  shrimps,  put  them  into  a  mortar 
with  two  or  three  ounces  of  butter,  season  with  a  little  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper,  and  pound  them  to  a  paste,  moisten  it 
with  a  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar.     Cut  some  rather  thin 


SANDWICHES.  203 


slices  of  bread  and  butter,  spread  half  of  them  with  the 
paste,  fold  the  remaining  half  over  these,  and  press  them 
lightly  together.  Cut  the  sandwiches  into  fingers  or  quar- 
ters, arrange  them  on  a  folded  napkin,  or  an  ornamental 
dish-paper,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. 

BEEFSTEAK  SANDWICH   WITH   MARROW. 

Make  eight  slices  of  toast.  Broil  a  small  sirloin  steak  and 
parboil  about  two  ounces  of  marrow  of  beef.  Chop  the  mar- 
row and  spread  on  four  pieces  of  toast,  cut  the  steak  in  very 
thin  small  slices  and  cover  the  marrow  with  it,  spread  a  little 
mustard  on  the  other  four  slices  of  toast  and  cover  the  meat 
so  as  to  finish  the  sandwich.  Place  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  so  as  to  serve  hot.  Season  with  salt  and  black 
pepper. 

MELBA  SANDWICHES. 
Stone  half  a  dozen  olives  and  chop  very  fine,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  thick  mayonnaise  dressing  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
finely  chopped  pecans  or  walnuts.     Spread  between  two  slices 
of  bread — ^graham  bread  may  be  used. 

TARTAR  SANDWICHES  "PIQUANT." 

Chop  together  three  large  sardines,  a  cupful  of  boiled 
ham,  ground,  and  three  small  cucumber  pickles.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  French  mustard,  or  omit  the  cucumber  pickles 
and  add  some  chow-chow  with  a  little  mustard..  Mix  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  ketchup  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

POTATO  AND  HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  well  seasoned  mashed  potatoes 
stir  two  eggs  without  beating.  Spread  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  this  potato  out  smoothly,  and  lay  on  it  a  slice  of  neatly 
trimmed  boiled  ham.  Cover  this  with  potato,  pinch  the 
edges  well  together,  lay  in  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  delicate 
brown.  Scraps  of  any  kind  of  meat  minced  and  seasoned 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  slices. 


204  SANDWICHES. 


DANISH  SANDWICHES. 

To  make  Danish  Sandwiches  which  are  very  appetizing, 
take  thin  slices  of  pumpernickel  and  spread  thickly  with 
butter.  On  this  place  the  meat  or  fish,  etc.  Cold  roast 
beef,  veal,  sardines,  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  raw  beef, 
cold  lobster,  caviar  and  sturgeon  are  used  mostly  in  mak- 
ing these  sandwiches.  The  meats  should  have  some  thin 
slices  of  cucumber  or  horse  radish  on  top,  the  lobster  a 
little  mayonnaise,  and  onion  on  the  caviar  and  chopped 
beef  in  order  to  make  a  dainty  appearance.  The  crusts 
should  be  removed  from  the  pumpernickel  and  the  sand- 
wiches placed  on  a  large  platter.  Serve  with  this  celery 
stuffed  with  Roquefort  cheese,  with  a  little  paprika 
sprinkled  on  the  cheese. 


Eggs,  Omeleftes  and  Souffles 


GENERAL  RULES. 

A  stale  egg  rises  in  water;  fresh  eggs  are  heavy,  and  sink 
to  the  bottom.  Wash  eggs  as  soon  as  they  come  from  the 
store.  Eggs  should  never  be  boiled,  as  that  renders  them 
tough  and  difficult  of  digestion.  They  should  be  cooked  just 
under  the  boiling  point. 

STEAMED   EGGS. 

Break  an  tgg  into  a  buttered  cup  or  in  patent  egg  steamer. 
Sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  cup  or  cups  into  a 
steamer  and  cook  until  the  white  is  set  (three  to  five  min- 
utes). Remove  carefully  from  cup  with  teaspoon.  Serve 
on  toast  garnished  with  toast  points. 

SOFT  COOKED  EGGS. 

Have  the  water  boiling,  drop  in  the  eggs  gently,  and  place 
on  stove  where  they  will  simmer  but  not  boil,  for  from  five 
to  eight  minutes. 

HARD  COOKED  EGGS. 

Place  the  eggs  in  boiling  water,  move  to  a  warm  place, 
where  they  will  simmer,  not  boil,  and  let  cook  thirty  min- 
utes. Remove  shells,  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise,  and  pour 
browned  butter  over  them  and  serve  hot. 

POACHED  OR  DROPPED  EGGS. 

Fill  a  pan  with  boiling,  salted  water.  Break  eath  egg  into 
a  wet  saucer  and  slip  it  into  the  water;  set  the  pan  back 
where  water  will  not  boil.  Dip  the  water  over  the  eggs  with 
a  spoon.  When  the  white  is  firm  and  a  film  has  formed  over 
the  yolk,  they  are  cooked.  Take  them  up  with  a  skimmer, 
drain  and  serve  hot,  on  toast.     Season  with  salt. 


206         EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES. 

SCRAMBLED   EGGS. 

3  eggs.  1-3  cup  milk  or  water. 

Yz  teaspoon  salt.  spk.  pepper. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  milk  and  seasoning.     Cook 
in  a  hot,  buttered  frying  pan,  stirring  constantly  until  thick. 
Serve  hot. 

SHIRRED  EGG. 

Butter  an  t.g'g  shirrer  or  small  vegetable  dish,  cover  bot- 
tom and  side  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  Add  an  ^gg  very  care- 
fully, cover  with  seasoned  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  until  white  is  firm  and  crumbs  are  brown. 

FRIED   EGGS. 

Fried  eggs  are  cooked  as  buttered  eggs  without  being 
turned.  They  are  usually  fried  with  bacon  fat,  which  is  taken 
by  spoonfuls  and  poured  over  the  eggs.  Do  not  have  the  fat 
too  hot  as  that  will  give  the  ^gg  a  hard,  indigestible  crust. 

BUTTERED  EGGS. 

Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  slip  in  an  ^gg  and  cook  un- 
til the  white  is  firm.  Turn  over  once  while  cooking,  and 
use  just  Plough  butter  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 

OMELET  A  LA  PAYSANNE. 

The  name  of  this  dish,  **a  la  paysanne"  ("in  the  country- 
woman's style")  suggests  at  once  that  it  is  a  dish  suited 
to  modest  households. 

The  following  are  the  quantities  of  materials  required 
for  six  persons:  Twelve  fresh  eggs,  three  and  a  half  ounces 
of  lean  bacon  cut  in  dice,  about  five  ounces  of  butter,  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  chives,  five  ounces  of  potatoes 
cut  in  dice,  salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  bacon  in  a  frying  pan  with  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  butter  and  put  on  a  fire  not  very  hot.  As  soon  as  the 
bacon  begins  to  fry  add  the  potatoes  cut  in  dice  and  let 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES.         207 

them  cook  at  a  slow  fire.  When  the  potatoes  are  cooked 
add  the  chives  or  parsley. 

While  waiting  for  this  you  must  break  the  eggs,  to 
which  you  add  the  salt  and  pepper  necessary,  taking  into 
consideration  the  salt  in  the  bacon.  The  eggs  must  be 
thoroughly  beaten  up  to  make  a  perfectly  uniform  liquid 
of  them.    Then  add  the  bacon  and  potatoes. 

If  you  have  only  one  frying  pan  at  your  disposal,  it 
will  be  advisable  to  wipe  it  with  a  clean  cloth  in  order  4:hat 
the  omelet  may  not  stick  to  the  bottom.  Then  put  the  fry- 
ing pan  back  on  a  sharp  fire,  keeping  your  three  and  a  half 
ounces  of  butter  in  reserve.  As  soon  as  the  butter  begins 
to  take  a  light  brown  color,  pour  the  eggs  into  the  boiling 
butter.  Shake  the  frying  pan  and  stir  the  eggs  with  a  fork. 
Then  turn  the  omelet  as  you  would  a  pancake.  A  few  sec- 
onds will  sufiice  to  finish  cooking  the  omelet.  Slip  it  im- 
mediately on  a  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

FRENCH  OMELETTE. 

Break  four  eggs  into  a  bowl;  season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  beat  with  an  egg  beater  four  minutes.  Melt 
one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  pan,  when  hot  pour  in  the  eggs. 
Draw  with  a  fork  from  edge  of  pan  to  the  center.  When 
the  omelette  begins  to  get  firm  let  it  remain  a  half  a  min- 
ute without  stirring,  then  fold  it  over  each  side  so  that  the 
two  sides  meet  in  the  center.  Turn  omelette  on  to  a  hot 
dish.  . 

SPANISH  OMELET. 

2   tablespoons   butter.  6  olives  chopped. 

1  tablespoon  onion,  finely  3^  green  pepper  chopped  fine. 

chopped.  1  tablespoon  capers. 

IJ^  cups  tomatoes.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  sliced  mush-  Few  grains  cayenne. 

rooms. 


208  EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES. 

Make  a  French  Omelet  with  four  eggs.  First  have 
ready  the  following  sauce.  Heat  the  butter  in  a  spider,  add 
the  onions,  olives  and  green  pepper  and  cook  a  few  min- 
utes, then  add  the  tomatoes  and  cook  until  moisture  has 
nearly  evaporated.  Add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Be- 
fore folding  the  omelet,  place  spoonful  on  center,  then  fold 
and  pour  the  rest  of  the  sauce  over  and  around. 

EGGS  A  LA  MORNAY. 

Poached  eggs  may  be  used,  or  eggs  boiled  in  the  shell  for 
five  minutes  or  until  solid  enough  to  peel.  With  a  heaping 
tablespoon ful  of  butter  and  a  glass  of  rich  milk  make  a 
thick  cream  sauce,  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  small  piece  of 
table  butter,  season  with  salt  and  paprika  pepper.  Stir  until 
well  melted.  Put  four  eggs  in  a  flat  baking  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  them,  sprinkle  with  a  little  grated  cheese  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  two  minutes  until  a  nice  golden 
color;    Enough  for  four  if  only  one  egg  is  required. 

OMELET  WITH  FLOUR. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately.  2  tablespoons  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  ^  teaspoon  salt. 

Stir  one-quarter  of  the  milk  with  the  flour  and  salt  mixed, 
until  smooth,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  pour  and  stir  over 
the  beaten  yolks,  then  fold  in  whites,  beaten  dry.  Pour  in  a 
hot  buttered  spider  and  cook  slowly  on  top  of  stove  five 
minutes,  set  in  a  moderately  slow  oven  and  bake  twenty 
minutes  more  until  set  and  a  golden  brown.  Fold  and  serve 
on  hot  platter. 

EGGS  TIMBALES— For  6  People. 

5  eggs.  1  large  pinch  white  pepper. 

1  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 

}i  teaspoon  salt. 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES.         209 


Beat  the  whole  eggs  till  lemon  colored,  then  add  rest  of  the 
ingredients.  Butter  the  timbale  forms,  fill  with  mixture  and 
place  forms  in  oven.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

OMELETTE  SOUFFLE. 

Take  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  place  in  a  bowl  and  add  four 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Beat  together  vigorously  with  a 
spoon  or  a  small  wire  whisk  for  five  or  six  minutes.  Take 
the  whites  of  seven  or  eight  eggs,  put  in  a  bowl,  and  beat 
to  a  very  stiff  froth.  Now  mix  the  yolks  and  whites  together 
very  carefully,  so  that  the  beaten  whites  keep  their  firm- 
ness. Then  pile  the  mixture  on  a  slightly  buttered  silver  or 
metal  dish,  smooth  it  over  with  a  knife  so  as  to  obtain  a 
dome-shaped  form,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  for 
about  twelve  minutes  or  more  and  serve  immediately.  Any 
other  flavor  than  vanilla  can  be  substituted.  Some  fresh 
strawberries  or  similar  fruit  previously  sugared  can  be 
put  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  To  make  the  omelette  souf- 
fle a  success  two  things  have  to  be  taken  into  consideration. 
First,  that  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  second,  that  the  mixing  together  of  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  be  done  very  carefully  with  a  flat  wooden  spoon. 

OMELETTE  CELESTINE. 

Break  up  some  macaroons  in  small  bits,  mix  them  with 
the  same  quantity  of  strawberry  jam,  add  a  little  Curacoa 
and  warm  slightly.  Make  an  omelette  of  the  size  required, 
fill  with  the  preparation  and  turn  it  over  on  the  plate.  Sur- 
round the  omelette  with  lady  fingers,  and  with  a  paper 
cornet  filled  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  decorate  each 
lady  finger.  Put  powdered  sugar  over  the  omelette  and 
burn  it  with  a  red-hot  poker  on  top.  Five  macaroons,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  strawberry  jam,  six  lady  fingers,  five  eggs 
sufficient  for  three  persons. 


210         EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES. 

SHREDDED  CODFISH  OMELET. 

Cook  one  level  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter 
together,  add  gradually  one  cup  of  hot  milk  and  a  little 
pepper.  Pour  boiling  water  on  half  a  cup  of  shredded 
codfish,  drain  and  mix  it  with  the  thickened  milk.  Then 
mix  the  whole  with  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  chopped 
fine.  Put  a  tablespoonful  butter  in  the  spider,  when  hot 
turn  in  the  fish  and  cook  slowly  until  a  thick  brown  crust 
has  formed;  then  fold  over  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 
Garnish  with  curls  of  fried  bacon  and  parsley. 

BREAD  OMELET. 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs.     2  tablespoons  of  milk, 

1  speck  of  salt.  1  egg. 

1   speck  of  pepper.  ^  teaspoon  butter. 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Separate  the  yolk  and  the 
white  of  the  egg  and  beat  until  light.  Add  the  yolk  to  the 
bread  and  milk  and  cut  in  the  white.  Turn  in  the  heated  but- 
tered pan  and  cook  until  set.    Fold  and  turn  on  heated  dish. 

ASPARAGUS  OMELET. 

Omelet.  1  can  asparagus. 

1  cup  white  sauce. 

Follow  any  of  the  above  omelet  recipes.  Make  white 
sauce.  Add  asparagus,  drained  and  rinsed,  to  the  white 
sauce,  spread  some  of  the  mixture  over  half  of  the 
baked  omelet,  fold  over  the  other  half,  turn  on  platter  and 
pour  over  the  rest  of  the  sauce.  Use  the  cut  asparagus. 
Cooked  peas,  cauliflower,  or  remnants  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  chicken,  veal  or  ham  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
asparagus. 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES.         211 

EGGS  AND  FISH. 

Eggs  with  fish  for  Friday  luncheons.  Four  hard  boiled 
eggs,  a  dozen  shrimps,  two  boned  anchovies,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sauce  are 
required  for  this  dish.  Shell  the  eggs,  cut  each  in  halves 
roundways,  take  out  the  yolks,  put  them  in  mortar  with  the 
shrimps  and  anchovies,  and  pound  all  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Next  rub  the  mixture  through  a  sieve,  put  it  back  in  the 
mortar  with  Ihe  butter  and  sauce,  pound  smoothly  and  sea- 
son carefully.  Fill  the  whites  of  egg  with  this  mixture. 
Arrange  with  lettuce  and  olives. 

EGGS  A  LA  BENEDICT. 

Poach  the  eggs,  fry  or  broil  as  many  pieces  of  ham  as 
eggs,  the  ham  having  been  cut  in  circles  two  and  one-half 
inches  in  diameter.  Split  some  English  muffins  in  two,  toast 
and  butter  them,  then  put  the  ham  on  the  muffins,  the  eggs  on 
top  of  the  ham,  and  cover  the  whole  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 
This  sauce  can  be  substituted  by,  a  cream  sauce  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  stirred  into  it.  One  egg  for  one  person  sufficient 
for  a  light  meal. 

EGGS  A  LA  MEYERBEER. 

Fry  four  eggs,  then  cut  with  a  round  cutter  so  that  an 
even  ring  of  the  white  of  the  egg  is  left  around  the  yolk. 
Fry  four  small  sausages,  split  and  broil  four  small  lamb 
kidneys,  garnish  the  eggs  with  these  two  articles,  then  pour 
the  blood  that  accumulates  in  the  cavity  of  the  kidney  over 
the  eggs  and  pour  a  little  rich  gravy  around  the  whole.  For 
two  or  four. 

EGGS  A  LA  CALCUTTA. 

Arrange  a  border  of  steamed  rice  on  a  hot  serving  platter, 
leaving  a  nest  in  center.  Slice  six  hard  cooked  eggs;  dis- 
pose in  the  nest,  and  pour  over  one  cup  of  thin,  white  sauce, 
to  which  is  added  one  cup  Edam  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces. 


212         EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES. 

Season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne,  sprinkle  all  lightly  with 
paprika.  It  will  require  one  and  one-half  cups  rice  for  the 
border. 

EGGS  AND  TOMATOES. 
Scrambled  eggs  with  tomatoes  make  an  appetizing 
luncheon  dish.  Take  two  good-sized  tomatoes,  peel,  cut 
them  in  pieces,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  hot  olive  oil.  When 
cooked  drain  off  the  liquid  and  take  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
add  some  cream,  and  scramble.  Mix  the  tomatoes  with  the 
eggs^  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  on 
thin  slices  of  toast. 

EGGS  AND  SPAGHETTI. 

Take  spaghetti  and  cook  it  with  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese. 
When  the  spaghetti  and  cheese  are  cooked,  add  slices  of 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Serve  in  a  bowl  garnished  with  pieces 
of  soft  toast. 

Among  many  other  excellent  dishes  made  with  this 
paste  are  fried  chicken  with  spaghetti  and  tomato  jelly  and 
macaroni  au  gratin  in  an  Edam  cheese  case. 

EGGS  IN  BAKED  POTATOES. 

6  potatoes.  6  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 

6  eggs.  6  tablespoons  butter. 

Bake  the  potatoes,  cut  off  the  top  and  remove  half  of  the 
inside  of  potato,  in  its  place  drop  an  egg  raw,  salt,  cayenne 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  cheese  in  each  and  1  teaspoon  butter.  Put 
back  into  a  hot  oven  for  4  minutes. 

EGGS  a  la  CARACAS. 

Chop  finely  two  ounces  smoked  dried  beef  freed  from  the 
fat  and  outside  skin.  Add  one  cup  tomatoes,  one-fourth  cup 
grated  Old  English  cheese,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a 
few  grains  each  of  cinnamon  and  cayenne.  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  mixture  and  when  heated,  add  three  eggs 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES.         213 

slightly  beaten.     Cook  until  of  a  creamy  consistency,  stirring 
continually  and  scraping  from  bottom  of  pan. 

OMELET  AU  FROMAGE. 

Beat  thoroughly  six  eggs.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  sauce  pan  and  pour  in  the  eggs,  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  over  them  one-half  cup  of  Par- 
mesan cheese  or  grated  American  cheese.  Shake  the  pan 
gently  to  prevent  burning,  while  the  center  is  still  soft,  lift 
half  of  the  omelet  on  to  a  plate  and  turn  the  other  half  over 
it. 

This  is  good. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  CHASSEUR. 

Take  three  slices  of  ham  and  cut  into  thin  strips.  Fry 
with  one-half  a  sliced  onion  until  brown,  then  add  two 
sliced  fresh  mushrooms.  Drain  off  the  fat.  Arrange  some 
scrambled  eggs  around  the  ham,  and  sprinkle  chopped  parsley 
over  the  whole. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

2  tablespoons  butter.  Brown  sauce. 

1  onion  finely  chopped.  Salt. 

4  tablespoons  finely  chopped         Pepper. 

mushrooms.  Few  grains  cayenne. 

4  tablespoons  left-over  ham      8  green  peppers, 
finely  chopped. 
Poached  eggs  are  improved  by  adding  vinegar  to  the  water 
— four  teaspoonfuls  to  the  pint. 

Process:  Cut  slice  from  stem  end  of  peppers;  remove  the 
seeds  and  pith,  parboil  eight  minutes  in  sufficient  water  to 
cover.  Remove  from  water;  invert  on  plate  to  drain;  melt 
butter  in  a  sauce-pan;  add  onion;  cook  three  minutes;  add 
mushrooms  and  ham;  cook  mixture  one  minute;  then  mois- 
ten with  sufficient  brown  sauce  to  spread;  season  highly  with 
salt,   pepper   and  cayenne.     Line  each  pepper  with   a  thin 


214         EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES. 

layer  of  this  mixture;  break  fresh  eggs  in  a  cup  one  at  a 
time  and  slip  carefully  into  pepper.  Sprinkle  the  top  with 
fine  buttered  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  equal  quantity  of 
grated  cheese;  bake  in  the  oven  until  eggs  are  set.  Serve 
on  rings  of  toast  with  brown  sauce. 

POACHED  EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 
6  eggs,  poached.  1  cup  white  sauce. 

6  tablespoons  grated  cheese.    6  pieces  toast. 

Cut  toast  round  and  put  a  poached  egg  upon  it.  Cook  the 
white  sauce,  add  the  cheese  and  pour  over  the  egg.  Garnish 
with  parsley.     Serve  hot. 

CREAMED  EGGS. 

One  gill  chicken  or  veal  stock,  one  gill  cream,  four  eggs, 
half  teaspoon ful  salt,  pepper  to  taste. 

Heat  together  the  cream  and  the  stock  in  the  blazer,  heat 
the  eggs  without  separating,  and  turn  into  the  dish.  Stir 
until  thick,  season  and  serve. 

EGGS  A  LA  LUISA. 

Drop  the  required  number  of  eggs  into  salted  boiling 
water  and  poach.  Remove  them  from  the  water,  drain 
with  an  egg  poacher,  place  on  a  platter  and  pour  over  them 
a  sauce  made  of  clam  broth,  seasoned  with  white  pepper, 
salt,  and  slightly  thickened  with  flour  melted  with  a  small 
quantity  of  butter. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Boil  eight  eggs  hard,  and  cut  into  thick  slices.  Cook  to- 
gether in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  flour  into  which  has  been  stirred  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  curry  powder.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  add  a 
large  cup  of  skimmed  soup  stock  and  cook,  stirring  all  the 
time,  to  a  smooth    sauce.      If  too  thick,    add  more  stock. 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES.         215 

When  smooth  and  of  the  consistency  of  cream,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  lay  into  the  sauce  the  sliced  eggs, 
sprinkled  lightly  with  salt.    Cook  until  very  hot. 

RUSSIAN  EGGS. 

Take  six  hard  boiled  eggs,  thoroughly  cold;  halve  them 
and  mix  the  yolks  well  with  toasted  bread  crumbs,  pepper 
and  salt.  Stuff  the  whites  with  this,  packing  the  filling 
in  solidly.  Then  rub  a  pan  with  garlic  or  onion  juice,  fry- 
ing the  eggs  in  this,  white  side  down,  for  five  minutes.  Servie 
with  boiled  spinach  or  brussels  sprouts. 

EGGS  AU  CRESSON. 

Slice  hard-boiled  eggs  on  a  bed  of  water  cress,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  garnish  with  shredded  anchovies. 
Serve  with  red  mayonnaise. 

FRIED  EGGS  AND  APPLES. 
Peel  and  core  two  large  apples,  then  cut  in  slices  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  over  them  salt  and 
pepper,  melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
add  the  apples,  fry  them  two  minutes,  turning  on  each  side. 
Break  six  eggs  over  the  apples.  Season  and  fry  for  a  min- 
ute. Then  set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Remove  and 
serve  on  hot  dish. 

TO  STUFF  EGGS. 
To  stuff  eggs  let  the  eggs  boil  until  they  are  hard  and  cut 
them  in  half.  Take  out  the  yolks,  chop  them  very  fine  and 
mix  with  chopped  chicken  and  parsley  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper  and  melted  butter.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture 
and  press  the  two  halves  together,  roll  in  the  beaten  white  of 
an  egg  and  breadcrumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  they  are 
light  brown.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 


216         EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES. 

FISH  OMELET. 
One  teacupful  of  shredded  fish,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Melt 
one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  add  the  fish,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  milk,  and  seasoning,  and  keep  it  hot  at  the  side 
of  the  fire.  Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  pour 
in  the  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  milk, 
stir  over  a  hot  fire  till  the  mixture  begins  to  set,  then  shake 
well ;  put  the  prepared  fish  in  the  middle,  fold  over,  and  turn 
out  on  to  a  hot  dish  and  serve  immediately. 

EGG  CHOWDER. 

Place  in  a  porcelain  kettle  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil, 
and  when  hot  add  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sliced  potatoes 
and  a  whole  onion  with  half  a  cupful  of  Spanish  peppers. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  and  a  pint  of  water,  boil  until  the  sliced 
potatoes  are  soft,  then  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  when 
it  comes  to  a  boil  add  three  eggs  which  have  had  the  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately.  Let  remain  but  one  minute 
over  fire  after  the  eggs  are  added.  Then  set  well  back  on 
the  stove. 

EGGS  L'AIGLON. 

To  make  this  delectable  dish  the  eggs  are  boiled  hard,  as 
many  as  one  wants.  They  are  then  cut  across  in  halves, 
the  yolks  removed  and  a  little  clip  cut  o&  each  end  to  make 
the  halves  stand  well. 

Then  a  stuffing  is  made  from  a  boiled  pepper,  chopped 
fine,  and  placed  in  a  bowl  that  has  been  rubbed  hard  with 
garlic.  One  small  onion  minced  very  fine  is  mixed  with  the 
pepper  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  have  been  mashed  with  a 
little  olive  oil  and  blended  into  the  whole  with  a  seasoning 
of  salt,  a  speck  of  mustard  and  a  breath  of  celery  seed. 

The  boiled  white  parts  of  the  egg  are  then  brushed  over 
with  beaten  raw  whites  of  eggs  and  rolled  in  grated  cheese 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  SOUFFLES.         217 

till  well  covered  with  it.  The  stuffing  paste  is  then  packed 
into  the  hollows  of  the  eggs  and  piled  high  on  top;  then 
sprinkled  thickly  with  grated  cheese  and  paprika,  and  placed 
in  a  hot  oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  They  are  served  with  a 
garnish  of  watercress. 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

2  tablespoons  flour,  4  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  I  pint  of  milk. 

Yz  cup  grated  cheese, 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together  over  the  fire;  when  they 
bubble,  add  gradually  hot  milk,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Add  slowly  the  grated  cheese.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  the 
beaten  yolks,  cool  the  mixture  then  add  the  beaten  whites, 
stirring  all  together  thoroughly.  Put  in  pudding  dish  which 
has  been  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  until  it  is  set — like  custard. 
Serve  at  once. 


POTATO  SOUFFLE. 

For  Six  Persons.     Time  of  Preparation,  1^^  hour. 

1  lb.  boiled  potatoes,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice, 

3  ounces  sugar,  2  ozs.  grated  sweet  almonds, 

3  ounces  butter,  5  ozs.  bitter  almonds, 

8  eggs,  A  little  grated  lemon  peel. 

Salt, 

Cream  the  butter,  add  to  it  the  yolks,  beaten  well  with 
the  sugar  and  the  potatoes,  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  grated 
almonds  and  lemon  peel.  .  When  all  is  well  mixed,  fill  a  well- 
buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  three-fourths  hour. 


I  N  D  EX 


Soups,  Broths,  Etc. 

Asparagus    21 

Barley  Broth    18 

Barley,    Cream    of 22 

Bean   (white)    25 

Bouillon    17 

Celery,   Cream  of 22 

Chicken     18 

Chicken-Gumbo  Creole    30 

Clam    Chowder    28 

Clam-Juice  Broth    28 

Consomme    17 

Corn  Chowder   23 

Corn,  Cream  of 23 

Crabs,  Bisque  of 27 

Cracker  Balls  for  Soup 30 

Italian 20 

Lentils,   Puree   of 29 

Lima  Beans,  Cream  of 26 

Lobster   Bisque    27 

Maryland  Stew    29 

Mock    Bisque    Soup 24 

Mushroom,   Cream  of 24 

Mutton     18 

Onion  a  la  Savarin 20 

Ox  Tail    21 

Oyster    Stew    28 

Pea  Puree   26 

Potage   a  la   Pine  Point 20 

Potato    25 

Rice,   Cream  of 22 

Sorrel,   Cream    of 26 

Soup    Dumplings    30 

Soup    Macaroons    30 

Tomato,    Cream  of 23-24 

Turtle    (Green)    Soup 19 

Vegetable    19 

Canapes,   Entrees  and   Ap- 
petizers. 

Anchovies,    Stuffed    16 

Anchovy  Butter  on  Toast...   12 

Bummer's   Custard    13 

Canape  Belmont    ; 13 

Canape  Careme   13 

Canape  of  Crabs   14 

Canape  a  la  Bernhardt 14 


Canape  Demidoff    14 

Canape  A  L'Indienne   14 

Canape  Pimento    15 

Canape  a  la  Reine 15 

Canape  a  la  Russe 15 

Sardines,  Breaded  13 

Sardines,   Deviled    16 

Sardellen — Torte 15 

Scotch    Woodcock    16 

Lobster  Cocktail   12 

Oyster    Cocktail    12 

Fish. 

Boiled  with   Lemon   Sauce..  39 

Bouillabaisse    42 

Codfish  Balls    45 

Codfish  in    Cream,    Baked...  43 

Codfish  Croquettes    43 

Codfish,   Matelot  of 43 

Codfish  with   Tomatoes    ....  42 

Bluefish  a  la  Lee 32 

Bluefish,    Baked,  Italian  Style  32 

Filled  40 

Fritters    41 

Fish  and    Cheese    Timbales.  40 

Fish  in  Tomato  Sauce 41 

Fish  Pudding    44 

Flounders,  iBaked    31 

Haddock  Souffle    42 

Halibut,   Broiled    34 

Halibut  and  Lobster      a      la 

Newburg    35 

Halibut  and  Shrimp      a      la 

Newburg     35 

Halibut  Steak    36 

Halibut  in  Tomato  Sauce...  35 

Herrings  (Fresh)  Marinaded.  45 
Herring      (Fresh)      Mustard 

Sauce  46 

Kingfish  Saute    33 

Mackerel    (Fresh)    Saute 44 

Salmon,    Baked   with    Cream 

Sauce  37 

Salmon  Creams   38 

Salmon  Croquettes    44 

Salmon,    Curried    36 

Salmon,   Escalloped    36 

Salmon,   Fillets   of 37 


INDEX 


219 


Salmon   Patties    36 

Salmon  Turbot    45 

Salmon   Trout,    Boiled 38 

Salmon  Trout  a  la  Celine...  39 

Shad's  Roe,  Broiled 31 

Shad  with   Sorrel,   Broiled..  32 

Smelts,   Baked    31 

Sole,    Baked    34 

Sole,   Fillet  d,e 33 

Soles  in  Mushroom  Sauce...  33 

Sweet-Sour  Fish   '39 

Shell  Fish. 

Clam  Fritters   66 

Crabs,  Deviled  56 

Crab   Croquettes    55 

Crab    Meat    Chops 55 

Frog  Legs  a  la  Newburg...  57 

Lobster  Balls   52 

Lobster  a  la  Bordelaise 53 

Lobster,   Broiled   Live 51 

Lobster  a  la  Burnham 54 

Lobster  Chops   54 

Lobster    Farcie    53 

Lobster  and  Mushroom  Fric- 
assee      52 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg.- 52 

Lobster  a  la  Thackeray 53 

Oysters   au   Gratin 51 

Oysters,  Baked  with   Dump- 
lings    49 

Oysters,  Broiled    47 

Oysters,  Celeried    49 

Oysters,  Escalloped    47 

Oysters,  Fried    47 

Oysters,  Fricasseed    48 

Oysters,  Grilled    49 

Oyster    Macaroni    48 

Oysters  and  Mushrooms   ...  48 

Oysters  a  la  Poulette 50 

Oysters,    Sherried 50 

Oysters  and  Spaghetti 51 

Pate  a  la  Princesse 50 

Saute   Royale   55 

Shrimp  a  la  Creole 57 

Meats. 

Beef,  en   Casserole 60 

Beef,  Corned,   Brisket  of....  63 

Beef,  Danish    58 

Beef  Rolls  or  Mock  Birds..  59 


Beefsteak  with  Oysters    ....  60 
Beefsteak  (Raw)    a    la    Tar- 
tare    79 

Beef   Tetrazzini,    Frizzled...   59 
Brain  (Calf's)  with  Browned 

Butter    75 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat.  71 
Cold  Meat  with  Tomato  Jel- 
ly       73 

Ham  in    Burgundy 66 

Ham   Casserole    67 

Ham  (Shredded)    with    Cur- 
rant  Jelly    

Ham  Fritters    68 

Ham,   Spanish    67 

Ham,    Southern    Style 67 

Ham  a  la  Touraine 67 

Hash,  Beef,   English   Style..  64 

Hash,  Mutton 64 

Hungarian  Gulash  70 

Konigsberger   Klops    71 

Irish    Stew    63 

Kidney  Toast  78 

Lamb,  Crown  of 60 

Lamb,  Potted  Shoulder  with 

String   Beans    76 

Lamb,  Roast    60 

Liver  Balls 74 

Liver,  Calf's  Braised   73 

Livers,  Chicken  a  la  Chante- 

cler    77 

Liver    Dumplings    76 

Liver,  Fried,  Goose 79 

Liver  a  la  Hen  Pheasant 75 

Meat,   Dressed    72 

Mutton  Curry     61 

Mutton  Stew,  French    61 

Mutton  Stew    with    Rice....   61 
Mutton  Stew      with      White 

Beans    61 

Paprika  Schnitzel  with  Noo- 
dles       65 

Prussian  Cutlets    69 

Rabbit   a   la    Maryland 74 

Rabbit,   Stewed,   Larded 78 

Royal  Breakfast  Dish 78 

Sauerbraten    63 

Savory   Pie    70 

Shepherd's    Pie    70 

Spanferkel    76 

Steak,  Pan  Broiled 58 


220 


INDEX 


Steak,    Spanish    58 

Surprise   Balls    74 

Sweetbread   Croquettes    69 

Sweetbreads      with       Mush- 
rooms   and    Marrow 68 

Sweetbread  Timbales 68 

Tongue,    Beef's    a    la    Jardi- 
niere    . . . , 59 

Thuringer     Bratwurst      with 

Red   Cabbage    75 

Veal  Breast,   Roast,   Stuffed.  64 

Veal  Cheese    65 

Veal  Terrapin    65 

Tripe,    Escalloped    74 

Poultry. 

Birds    en   Casserole 86 

Chicken,  Canterbury    84 

Chicken,  Cream   82 

Chicken  Croquettes    85 

Chicken  a  la  King 80 

Chicken  with  Madeira  Sauce.  83 
Chicken,  Minced  with  Green 

Peppers    84 

Chicken  in    Rice    Cups 83 

Chicken  Saute    80 

Chicken  a  la  Savoy 82 

Chicken,   Souffle    85 

Chicken,  Spanish    Stew 80 

Chicken  or  Sweetbreads  with 

Mushrooms    81 

Chicken  a  la  Sam  Ward 83 

Chicken,  Victoria    81 

Chicken   a  la   Waldorf 84 

Chop  Suey   86 

Sauces  and  Dressings  for 
Meats,  Fish,  Etc. 

Almond  Sauces  for  Moulded 

Fish    94 

Bacon  Fat   100 

Baked  Fish    95 

Bearnaise    87 

Bechamel     87 

Boiled  Tongue  or  Fish 95 

Bordelaise    88 

Brown    88 

Brown  Mushroom    89 

Catsup    100 

Creole    89 


Cream 95 

Cumberland  90 

English    Chutney    92 

Epicures'  Delight   100 

Galli    90 

Gargoyle    100 

Hollandaise    98-99 

Italienne    91 

Lemon  for  Fish  or  Meat....  96 

Mushroom    ,  91 

Mustard    91 

Mint    90 

Newburg    96 

Piquante    91 

Ravigotte    92-93 

Remoulade    92 

Russian    100 

Salmon    95 

Tartar    96 

White    89 

Vinaigrette  Sauce  with  Egg.  99 
Vinaigrette    99 

Dressings. 

Boiled   Salad  Dressing 99 

Fowl   Stuffing,   Boiled 92 

Bread  Stuffings    94 

Bread  Dressing    94 

Delmonico  Salad   Dressing.  .100 

French  Dressing 97 

French    Salad    Dressing 98 

Garlic    101 

Mayonnaise   96 

Onion    Dressing   101 

Red  Dressing   101 

Roquefort  Dressing   101 

Vegetables. 

Artichoke,  Saute   102 

Beans,   Baked    102 

Beans   and   Tomatoes 102 

Brussels  Sprouts   103 

Cabbage,  Baked  105 

Cabbage,    Escalloped    106 

Cabbage,  au   Gratin 106 

Cabbage  Rolls    107 

Cabbage  Stuffed    107 

Carrots  a  la  Cyrano 103 

Carrots,    Felmish    104 

Cauliflower,  Baked   105 

Cauliflower,  au    Gratin 104 


INDEX 


221 


Celery  Toast   108 

Chestnut   Croquettes    108 

Corn   with   Bacon 104 

Corn,  Escalloped 105 

Corn  and  Green  Peppers  en 

Casserole    104 

Cucumbers,   Creamed   106 

Macaroni  with  Bacon Ill 

Macaroni  Balls    Ill 

Macaroni,  Escalloped   112 

Macaroni,   Neapolitan    112 

Macaroni  with  Tomatoes  and 

Mushrooms    110 

Mushrooms,      (Canned),      in 

Ramikins    Ill 

Mushrooms   and   Bacon 108 

Mushrooms,   Broiled    109 

Mushrooms,  Creamed   109 

Mushrooms,  a  la  Dorothy..  108 
Mushrooms    under     glass 

cover   109 

Mushroom,  Saute    110 

Onions  au  Gratin 114 

Onion  Pie,  Dutch 114 

Onions  (Spanish)     Stuffed 

with   Kidney 114 

Onions   (Spring)   on  Toast..  113 

Peas   with   Bacon 114 

Peppers,  Baked   118 

Potato  Balls* 117 

Potatoes  with  Cheese 115 

Potatoes,   Duchesse    115 

Potato  Dumplings,  Hunga- 
rian     116 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise   115 

Potatoes,  Piquant   117 

Potatoes,   Puffs    116 

Potatoes  with  Tomato  Sauce  117 

Potato   Souffle    116 

Spaghetti,  Eggs  and  Cheese.  112 

Spaghetti,  Italienne    113 

Sweet   Potatoes,    Glazed 118 

Sweet     Potatoes,      Southern 

Style    118 

Rarebit,  Swiss    118 

Rice   Croquettes   with   Jelly.  119 

Rice    with    Watercress 119 

Slaw,   Hot    122 

Spinach    119 

Spinach  Cooked  in  Butter..  120 
Spinach    without   Water 120 


Spinach  au  Naturel 120 

Tomatoes,   Baked    121 

Tomatoes,  Stuffed  with  Rice  121 

Tomatoes   and   Cheese 122 

Tomatoes  a  la  Stanton 121 

Tomatoes,    Stuffed    121 

Tomatoes,  Stuffed  with  Sar- 
dines     122 

Salad. 

Alsatian   124 

Anchovy    127 

Apple   (German)    Cup 144 

Apple  with  Herrings  or  Sar- 

dellen    127 

Apple  and  Onion 144 

Bean   (Wax)    137 

Bird's  Nest    139 

Brain  (Calves)   130 

Cabbage  a  la   Calais 134 

Carrot   137 

Celery  and   Nut 139 

Cherry    142-143 

Chestnut    140 

Chicken  (Jellied)     and     Cel- 
ery     126 

Chicken    and   Lobster 126 

Chicken,      Sweetbreads     and 

Mushroom    125 

Clam    127 

Crab  Salad  en   Coquille 127 

Cream    135 

Cucumber    132 

Cucumber,  Francaise   133 

Cucumber,   Ornamented    ....133 

Egg    124 

Egg,   Italian    125 

Egg   Lily    125 

Egg,  Scrambled    124 

Endive    134 

Endive   (French) 133 

Fish 129 

Fish  (Moulded)  with  Cucum- 
bers     131 

Fish    in   Jelly 130 

Fruit   141 

Fruit,  Alice   141 

German    134 

Grape   141 

Grape  Fruit   145 

Grape  Fruit  en  Surprise. ..  .145 


222 


INDEX 


Ham    138 

Ham,  Virginia   139 

Herring   128 

Hickory  Nut   143 

Italian     136 

Lettuce    133 

Lettuce   (Stuffed)    133 

Log  Cabin  142 

Lobster    128 

Louis    140 

Macedoine   137 

Mushroom    131 

Normandy    138 

Nut  and  Celery 144 

Onion  and  Tomato 135 

Orange    143 

Orange     and      Nut,      Astor 

Style    141 

Pepper,  Green,  and  Potato.. 135 

Pineapple   145 

Pomona   144 

Pork  Roast   138 

Prune  and  Nut 143 

Romaine    134 

Ribbon    137 

Salmon   (Jellied)    128 

Sardine    129 

Scottish    127 

Shad  Roe  and  Cucumber 129 

South  Shore  Country  Club..  142 

Sweetbread    130 

Sweetbread  and  Cucumber.  .132 
Sweetbreads  and  Mushroom. 130 

Tomato   Baskets    136 

Tomato  (Jellied)   135 

Tomatoes,  Filled  136 

Tunny  Fish   129 

Waldorf    144 

Water  Lily  140 

Walnut  (English)    143 

Zebra    138 

Desserts. 

Almond  Pretzels   156 

Almond  Torte    146 

Angel   Food    151 

Angel  Mousse   161 

Apple  Torte 146 

Apples,  Steamed    167 

Baked  Alaska   170 


Baked  Bananas  168 

Banana   Parfait    168 

Banana  Whip   167 

Blitz   Kuchen    152 

Brod  Torte    147 

Cafe  Parfait    169 

Cararrtel  Layer  Cake 152 

Cherry  Tartlets   157 

Chestnut  Flake   166 

Chocolate   Souffle    163 

Chocolate  Torte    147 

Coffee  Creme  Torte 147 

Coffee  Souffle    164 

Cranberry  Parasade   166 

Cranberry  Frappe   162 

Custard,   Baked    160 

Custard,  Boiled   159 

Date  Macaroons    157 

Date  and  Walnut  Torte 148 

Filbert  Torte    148 

Grapefruit   Cup    168 

Heavenly  Hash    163 

Himbeerschaum    163 

Himmel  Torte    149 

Kirsch   Torte    149 

Macaroons   158 

Macaroon  Souffle   164 

Macaroon  Tarts 158 

Maple  Cream   171 

Maple  Ice  Cream 171 

Maple  Mousse   172 

Marguerites  158 

Marron  Glace   166 

Mocha  Torte 149 

Murberkuchen   153 

Murberteig    153 

Nesselrode  Pudding 172 

Nut  Cake   154 

Nut  Cream   172 

Nut  Patties    159 

Peaches  Mebla  Ice  Cream...  173 
Peach  Souffle  a  la  Roxane...l64 

Pear  Nordica   173 

Prune  or  Date  Whip. ..  .169-170 

Pudding,   Cabinet    161 

Pudding,   Caramel,  Steamed.  161 

Pudding,  Chocolate    160 

Pudding,  Danish    Rice    162 

Pudding,  Chocolate    160 

Pudding,  Frozen     171 


INDEX 


223 


Pudding,  Frozen    Kiss    171 

Pudding,  Macaroon    163 

Pudding,  Sponge   160 

Queen  of  Trifles 159 

Raspberry  Ice   175 

Rice  a  la  Reine 16k5 

Rice,  Swiss    165 

Rothe  Gritse    165 

Rum  Torte    150 

Russian  Cream 170 

Sand  Torte  150 

Savarin    154 

Sponge  Cake 154 

Strudel,  Apple  155 

Strudel,  Hungarian 155 

Sunshine  Cake   157 

Uneeda  Biscuit  Torte 151 

Walnut  Souffle  165 

Walnut  Torte  151 

Wine  Syllabub   169 

Frostings,   Fillings   and   Sauces 
for  Dessert 

Boiled   Chocolate   Frosting.  .179 

Boiled  Icing    179 

Brandy  Sauce   175 

Caramel  Frosting   lt6 

Caramel  Sauce   176 

Chocolate  Filling   178 

Chocolate  Sauce 174 

Chocolate     Sauce      for     Ice 

Cream    177 

Claret  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream.  174 

Coffee  Sauce  174 

Custard  Sauce 174 

Fig  Filling • 177 

Hard  Sauce  175 

Jelly  Sauce 175 

Kirsch  Sauce   176 

Lemon  Sauce 176 

Maple  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream.  .175 

Marshmallow  Frosting   179 

Nut  Filling    178 

Nut  or  Fruit  Filling 178 

Sour  Cream  Filling 177 

Sponge  Cake  Filling,  Choco- 
late    176 

Whipped  Cream  Filling 178 

Whipped  Cream  Filling  with 
Pineapple  and  Nuts 178 


Chafing   Dish   Specialties. 

Beef,  with   Vegetables    

Cheese   Delight    180 

Cheese  Fritters    184 

Chicken  a   la  Hamilton 184 

Chicken  a  la  Newburg 185 

Clams  with   Green   Peppers.  184 

Crabs  a  la  Richmond 183 

Crab    Meat,    Creamed 187 

Deviled  Scallops   182 

Duck,  Rechauffe  of 183 

Golden   Buck    181 

Ham,  Barbecued   183 

Ham,  Shredded  with  Currant 

Jelly  Sauce    188 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets 183 

Livers,  Chicken  with   Curry.  181 
Livers,  Chicken  a  la  Oscar..  181 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 187 

Macaroni  Rarebit    181 

Mushrooms,   Russell    183 

Oysters  a  la  Newburg 185 

Oysters  a  la  Poulette 185 

Oysters  a  la  Somerset 183 

Oyster     Stew,     Philadelphia 

Style     186 

Oyster     Crabs     and     Sweet- 
bread a  la  Gourmet 186 

Rictum-Dity    188 

Sardinette  a  la  Welsh 184 

Sardines  on  Toast 186 

Shrimps,    Curried    188 

Steak,  Mansfield    187 

Sweetbreads,  Larded,   Saute.  188 

Tomatoes   and   Eggs 184 

Tripe,    Lyonnaise    182 

Welsh    Rarebit    180 

Yorkshire    Buck    181 

Cheese  Dishes. 

Cheese    Balls    189 

Cheese  en   Surprise 192 

Creme  Aux   Almonds 190 

English  Monkey    190 

Fromage  Romanesque  191 

Parmesan    Croquettes    189 

Roquefort  au  Port 191 

Roulettes,  Cheese    189 

Stuffed   Celery    190 


224 


INDEX 


Bakery    and    Breakfast    Dishes. 

Baking   Powder    Dumplings.  198 

Cheese  Straws    193 

Croutons    193 

Fritters,  Banana    195 

Fritters,  Batter   for    194 

Fritters,  Corn     195 

Fritters,  Pineapple    195 

Fritters,  Queen    195 

Muffins,  Wheat    197 

Noodles    198 

Oatmeal    Cookies    196 

Pancake,  French   199 

Pancake,   German    199 

Pancake,   Potato    198 

Parker   House   Rolls 197 

Popovers    .  .^ 196 

Rice   Griddle  Cakes 197 

Russian   Tea  Cakes 194 

Toast,  Cinnamon  a  la  Wood. 193 

Toast,  Cream   or   Milk 193 

Toast,  French    193 

Waffles    196 

Sandwiches. 

Beefsteak  with  Marrow 203 

Cheese     201 

Cheese,  Hot    201 

Cheese   and   Anchovy 201 

Chicken  and   Nut 202 

Club    200 

Danish    204 

Indian    202 

Melba    203 

Potato   and   Ham 203 

Russian     201 

Salmon    202 

Shrimp    202 

Tartar  "Piquant"    2p3 

Eggs,    Omelettes    and    Souffles. 

Eggs   a   la    Benedict 211 

Eggs,  Buttered    206 


Eggs  in  Baked  Potatoes 212 

Eggs  a  la  Calcutta 211 

Eggs  a  la  Caracas 212 

Egg    Chowder    216 

Eggs,  Creamed    214 

Eggs  au  Cresson    215 

Eggs,  Curried     214 

Eggs   and    Fish 211 

Eggs,  Fried    206 

Eggs,  Fried,  and  Apples 215 

Eggs,  Hard   Cooked    205 

Eggs,  L'Aiglon 216 

Eggs  a  la  Luisa 214 

Eggs  a  la  Meyerbeer 211 

Eggs  a  la  Mornay 208 

Eggs,  Poached   or  Dropped. 205 
Eggs,  Poached,  and  Cheese. 214 
Eggs  (Poached),  Green  Pep- 
pers     213 

Eggs,  Russian    215 

Eggs,  Scrambled   206 

Eggs,  Scrambled,  Chasseur... 213 

Eggs,  Shirred    206 

Eggs,  Soft  Cooked  205 

Eggs  and  Spaghetti 212 

Eggs,  Steamed   205 

Eggs,  Stuffed    215 

Egg  Timbales  208 

Eggs  and  Tomatoes 212 

Omelets. 

Asparagus    210 

Bread    210 

Celestine     209 

Codfish,    Shredded    210 

Fish 216 

French     207 

Flour,  with    208 

Au    Fromage    213 

A    la    Paysanne 206 

Souffle    209 

Spanish    207 

Souffle,  Potato   217 

Souffle,  Cheese  216 


301 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW 


yi 


RENEWED  BOOKS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  IMMEDIAH 
RECAU 


L 


RETURNED 


JUL  20  HO 


^ 


LIBRARY,  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  DAVIS 

Book  Slip-50m-9,'70(N9877s8) 458— A-31/5,6 


N9  788373 

TX715 
Oakland  Brewing  and     027 
Malting  Company. 

The  blue  and  gold 
cook  book. 


LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 

DAVIS 


■)/■ 


YOU  HAVE  NOTICED 

HOW^MUCH  BETTER  THE  MEAL 
SEElvis  with  a  SPLENDID  BOTTLE  of 

Blue  and  Gold  Lager  Beer 

Every  daintily  garnished  table  will  be  com- 
plete when  you  out  on  the  finishing  touch 
—which  is  the  properly  aged,  wholesome, 
appetizing  and  perfectly  sanitary  home 
product  —  Blue  and  Gold.  A  handsome 
package,  an  adorn*:icnt  to  any  table. 


BREV'ING  PLANT  OF 

Oakland  Brewing  &  Malting  Co. 


Order  a  case  today  from  your  dealer 


The  Perfect  Beer — $1.25  Per  Case 

of  12  large  or  24  small  bottles— delivered  at  your  home. 


