TX  715 
.B65 
Copy   1 


u 


e 


l^ue  Hens  Chickens 


o 


f^^ 


<0 


V 


^ 


The  Other  Side  of 

Good  mil 

EVERY  merchant  knows  thxit  a  successful 
business  is  built  by  making  a  friend  of  the 
customer.  A  disgruntled  customer,  or,  oiie 
with  a  ^'chip  on  the  shoulder''  against  a  store, 
can  work  a  lot  of  harm  to  that  business.  Many 
such  customers  are  a  positive  menace.  And  a 
costly  liability. 

It  is  obvious  that  a  merchant,  then,  must  see  to  it 
that  every  article  sold  in  his  store  carries  with  it  a 
protection  against  the  creation  of  bad  feeling  or 
shaken  confidence  in  the  customer's  mind.  The 
customer  may  leave  the  store  perfectly  satisfied,  but 
if  the  goods  purchased  do  not  protect  that  satisfac- 
tion, the  merchant  is  taking  away,  stone  by  stone, 
the  very  foundation  o(  his  business. 


N.  M.  STOKES   :  Jeweler 

Home  of  ^Reliability 
Telephone  242  Milford,  Delaware 


Blue  Hen's  Chickens' 

COOK  BOOK 


CONTAINING  A  NUMBER  OF  LONG  USED  RECIPES, 
EMBRACING  ALL  POPULAR  DISHES  AND  A 
VARIETY  OF  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES  OF  MORE 
THAN     SPECIAL     VALUE     TO     HOUSEKEEPERS. 


The  Blue  Hen's  Chickens'  Cooking-  Book 
Should  be  in  every  household  nook — 
For  you  will  find  on  its  pages  fair 
Good,  tried  receipts,  both  rich  and  rare, 
The  knowledge  of  which  in  days  to  come 
Will  be  fully  enjoyed  by  every  one. 


COPYRIGHTED   1921 

By   Milford    Chronicle    Publishing   Co. 

Milford,    Delaware 

ALL  RIGHTS   RESERVED 


)C1A656016 

"EC  ?9  /92, 


'Vjj 


<5~ 


Introduction 


THE  PENINSULA  which   lies  between  the  Delaware 
and  Chesapeake  Bays  and  is  composed  of  the  Eastern 
Shore  of  Maryland,  Delaware,  and  a  little  bit  of  Vir- 
ginia, has  for  two  hundred  years  been  famous  the  world 
over  for  the  lusciousness  of  its  viands  and  the  excellence  of 
its  cooking. 

The  recipes  which  tickled  the  palates  of  the  Colonial 
planters  and  their  visitors,  and  first  earned  for  the  Penin- 
sula its  fame  for  the  highest  development  in  the  art  of  cook- 
ing, have  descended  with  the  family  plate  to  the  heirs  of 
those  old  planters;  nor  has  the  art  of  the  Colonial  house- 
keeper been  lost ;  but  rather  has  it  been  refined  and  adapted 
to  modern  conditions  and  cullinary  appliances. 

Many  of  the  recipes  have  been  handed  down  from  mo- 
ther to  daughter,  and  to  grand-daughter  among  the  women 
of  the  Peninsula  and  are  as  highly  prized  by  them  as  their 
family  plate  and  Colonial  furniture.  These  recipes  were 
gathered  by  the  ladies  of  The  Milford  New  Century  Club; 
and  all  were  thoroughly  tested  before  their  approval.  Only 
persons  well-known  for  their  cooking  were  asked  to  contri- 
bute. The  publishers  hope  to  perpetuate  by  this  publication 
the  housewifely  lore  of  the  Peninsula,  and  to  share  it  with 
the  public. 

It  is  with  this  idea  that  we  oflfer  the  second  edition  of 
The  Blue  Hen's  Chickens'  Cook  Book  to  the  public. 


Milford  Chronicle  Publishing  Co. 


Soups 


Fine  old  Bouillon  made  of  stock  meat, 
Superior  Consomme  delicate  to  eat, 
Mock  Turtle  thinks  he  is  head  of  the  heap. 
But  the  old  fashioned 
Vegetable  Soup  is  hard  to  beat. 


SOUPS  5 

SOUP  STOCK 

Take  the  liquor  after  boiling  fresh  meat,  also  the  bones, 
cracked  that  the  marrow  may  be  extracted,  also  any  meat 
left  over.  Boil  these  all  together  with  water  enough  to 
cover  them,  stir  frequently;  adding  at  intervals  a  cup  of 
cold  water;  one  quart  of  water  is  enough  for  one  pound  of 
meat;  from  six  to  eight  hours  will  make  stock  fit  for  use; 
when  cold  skim  off  the  fat ;  put  stock  in  earthern  crock. 


WHITE  STOCK 

•  Put  over  the  fire  two  pounds  of  the  cheaper  part  of 
veal,  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  a  sliced  onion,  a  bay 
leaf  and  a  couple  of  stalks  of  celery  cut  in  pieces ;  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  slowly  and  simmer  for  five  or  six  hours.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  set  aside  to  get  cold. 

Remove  the  fat,  take  out  the  bones,  and  you  will  have 
a  thick  jelly.  This  can  be  heated,  skimmed,  and  if  desired, 
strained  before  it  is  used.  It  will  be  a  strong  and  nutritious 
stock. 


NOODLE  SOUP 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  two  eggs,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  milk,  a  little  salt;  mix  into  stiff  dough;  roll  out 
very  thin  in  two  sheets.  Lay  on  a  cloth  and  dry  for  two 
hours.  Fold  up  and  cut  into  narrow  strips ;  drop  into  boil- 
ing soup;  cook  twenty  minutes.    Enough  for  one  chicken. 


CHICKEN  SOUP 

To  one  chicken  add  three  pints  of  water;  let  simmer 
until  tender;  drain  liquor  off;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  rice, 
two  tablespoonfuls  peas,  parsley  and  noodles,  butter,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste ;  tomatoes  may  be  used  too. 


MUTTON  BROTH 

Take  one  pound  of  mutton  from  lower  part  of  leg-  boil 
meat  slowly  in  cold  water;  add  a  turnip,  carrot,  onion  and 
potato;  also  spoonful  of  rice;  all  fat  should  be  removed- 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

When  nearly  done  add  chopped  parsley.     When  done 
stram.  ' 


SOUPS 


BOUILLON 

Bouillon  is  ipade  from  meat  stock.  Put  stock  on  when 
cooking ;  add  a  bay  leaf,  clove,  onion,  potato,  allspice,  pepper, 
salt  and  Worcestershire  sauce ;  season  to  taste.  When  done, 
strain  until  clear. 


CLAM  SOUP 

Wash  twenty-five  hard  shelled  clams;  put  them  in  a 
kettle  over  the  fire  until  open;  put  them  through  the  meat 
grinder ;  strain  the  liquor ;  add  enough  water  to  make  three 
pints — put  clams  and  liquor  into  a  double  boiler ;  at  the  same 
time  put  in  a  slice  of  onion  finely  chopped,  or  a  little  onion 
juice;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  three  of 
flour,  rubbed  smooth  together;  beat  three  eggs  to  a  cream 
in  the  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over  them  boiling  hot. 


SNAPPER  SOUP 

This  is  for  a  ten  pound  snapper:  Chop  head  off  alive, 
scald  snapper,  scrape  out  the  side  skin  and  scales  off  of 
shell ;  crack  shell  in  pieces ;  cook  snapper  and  shell  together 
until  tender.    When  done  cut  up  into  blocks. 

Dressing  for  snapper :  Boil  two  quarts  of  milk,  yolks  of 
three  eggs  beaten  light,  pepper  to  taste,  rind  of  one  lemon 
grated ;  cook  ten  minutes ;  add  one-half  pint  of  sherry  wine, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  burnt  sugar;  pour  over  snapper  and 
serve. 


CKEAM  OF  PEA  SOUP 

One  pint  of  peas  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  colander ; 
place  in  a  saucepan  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  let  it  melt; 
then  add  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  stir  well  and 
then  add  slowly  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  then  one  quart 
of  boiling  milk,  then  the  mashed  peas. 

Cook  until  well  blended;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  with  toasted  crackers. 


SOUPS  7 

TOMATO  SOUP 

One  quart  of  tomatoes ;  stew  in  one  pint  of  water  and 
pinch  of  soda.  Cook  on  back  of  stove  for  an  hour;  strain 
through  sieve,  return  to  the  fire  at  boihng  point ;  stir  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour;  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  onion  and  red  pepper; 
add  a  quart  of  milk  or  a  pint  of  cream.  Let  it  boil  up,  then 
serve. 


BLACK  BEAN  SOUP 

One  pint  of  turtle  beans,  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  one  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Wash  the 
beans  well  in  cold  water  and  soak  them  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  the  water  off  and  cover  again  with  one  quart 
of  boiling  water. 

Boil  until  tender  about  two  hours ;  take  from  fire,  press 
through  a  sieve;  wash  kettle,  return  soup;  add  the  other 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  let  boil  a  minute  or  two;  add  salt 
and  pepper;  cut  lemon  into  slices  and  put  into  tureen;  pour' 
boiling  soup  over  them  and  serve. 


BIEXICAN  BEAIf  SOUP 

Soak  one  quart  of  Mexican  beans  over  night,  then  add 
stock  or  knuckle  of  veal,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
salt  and  pepper,  three  quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil  for  three 
hours ;  then  mash  with  potato  masher  through  a  sieve ;  put 
back  on  stove  and  heat  again ;  slice  one  lemon  and  chop  fine 
two  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  put  into  the  tureen,  pour  the  soup 
over  this  and  serve  hot. 


POTATO  SOUP 

Four  large  potatoes,  one  union;  boil  in  two  quarts  of 
water  until  soft.  Press  through  sieve  and  add  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.    Let  it  boil  up  again  and  serve. 


8  SOUPS 

TOMATO  SOUP 

One  quart  of  canned  tomatoes,  one  quart  of  water,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  small  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Boil  tomato  and  onion  in  one  quart  of  water  ten  min- 
utes, then  add  salt,  pepper  and  sugar ;  press  through  a  sieve ; 
return  to  the  fire ;  add  butter  and  milk ;  let  simmer  for  twen- 
ty minutes.    Serve  with  croutons. 


TOMATO  BISQUE 

Put  through  a  sieve  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  place  the 
strained  tomato  over  the  fire,  and  boil  a  few  minutes;  add 
salt  and  pepper  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  stirring 
until  mixture  ceases  to  bubble ;  have  ready  in  another  vessel 
one  pint  of  new  milk  heated  only  to  boiling  point;  add  to 
the  tomato  one-half  cup  of  brown  bread  crumbs  or  cracker 
dust,  and  the  hot  milk,  a  good  lump  of  butter  and  allow  to 
come  to  a  boil. 


OLD-FASHIONED  TEGETABLE  SOUP 

One  shank,  five  quarts  cold  water,  one  small  head  of 
cabbage,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  two 
bay  leaves,  five  onions,  one  stalk  of  celery,  four  white  po- 
tatoes, one  quart  tomatoes,  one  small  red  pepper;  salt  to 
taste. 

Wash  shank  and  put  into  soup  kettle;  add  water  and 
chopped  red  pepper;  place  over  a  moderate  fire;  boil  about 
four  hours  ;add  shredded  cabbage,  chopped  onion,  potatoes 
and  turnips  cut  size  of  dice,  carrot,  cut  in  lengthwise  strips, 
parsley,  bay  leaf  and  tomatoes.  Boil  hard  for  two  hours, 
adding  water  if  necessary.  About  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving,  throw  in  a  handful  of  spaghetti,  or  macaroni,  cook- 
ed. 

Just  as  good  second  day. 


Fish 


TO  COOK  A  HUSBAND 

A  good  many  husbands  are  utterly  spoiled  by  mismanagement. 
Some  women  go  about  it  as  if  their  husbands  were  bladders,  and  pro- 
ceed to  blow  them  up.  Others  keep  them  constantly  in  hot  water. 
Others  let  them  freeze  by  carelessness  and  indifference.  Some  keep 
them  in  a  stew  by  irritating  ways  and  words.  Others  roast  them.  Some 
keep  them  in  a  pickle  all  their  lives.  It  cannot  be  supposed  that  any 
husband  will  be  tender  and  good,  managed  in  this  way;  but  they  are 
really  delicious  when  properly  treated.  In  selecting  your  husband,  you 
should  not  be  guided  by  the  silvery  appearance,  as  in  buying  mackerel, 
nor  by  the  golden  tint,  as  if  you  wanted  salmon.  Be  sure  and  select 
him  yourself,  as  tastes  differ.  Do  not  go  to  market  for  him,  as  the 
best  are  always  brought  to  your  door.  It  is  far  better  to  have  none, 
unless  you  will  patiently  learn  to  cook  him.  A  preserving  kettle  of  the 
finest  porcelain  is  best,  but  if  you  have  nothing  but  an  earthenware 
jar,  it  will  do,  with  care.  See  that  the  linen  in  which  you  wrap  him 
is  nicely  washed  and  mended,  with  the  required  number  of  buttons 
and  strings  nicely  sewed  on.  Tie  him  in  the  kettle  by  a  strong  silk 
cord,  called  "comfort,"  as  the  one  called  "duty"  is  apt  to  be  weak. 
They  are  apt  to  fly  out  of  the  kettle  and  be  burned  and  crusty  on  the 
edges,  since,  like  crabs  and  lobsters,  you  have  to  cook  them  while 
alive.  Make  a  clear,  steady  fire  of  love,  neatness  and  cheerfulness. 
Set  him  as  near  this  as  seems  to  agree  with  him.  If  he  sputters  and 
fizzes,  do  not  be  anxious;  some  husbands  do  this  till  they  are  quite 
done.  Add  a  little  sugar,  in  the  form  of  what  confectioners  call  kisses, 
but  no  vinegar  and  pepper,  on  any  account.  A  little  spice  improves 
them,  but  is  must  be  used  with  judgment.  Do  not  stick  any  sharp  in- 
strument into  him,  to  see  if  he  is  becoming  tender.  Stir  him  gently; 
watch  the  while  lest  he  lie  too  flat  and  close  to  the  kettle,  and  so 
become  useless.  You  cannot  fail  to  know  when  he  is  done.  If  thus 
treated  you  will  find  him  very  delicious,  agreeing  nicely  with  you  and 
the  children,  and  he  will  keep  as  long  as  you  want,  unless  you  be- 
come careless  and  set  him  in  too  cold  a  place. 

Juliette  Corson,  New  York  Cooking  School. 


10  FISH 

FISH  FOR  CHOWDER 

Cod  and  halibut  (mixed),  halibut,  haddock,  eels,  little 
neck  clams,  long  clams,  round  clams,  oysters. 


FISH  BEST  BROttED 

Salmon,  cod,  red  snapper,  halibut,  sword  fish,  haddock, 
black  bass,  sturgeon. 


FISH  FOR  STEWOG 

Lobster,  little  neck  clams,  oysters,  shrimps,  round  clams 
(chopped),  scallops. 


FISH  TO  FRY 

Butterfish,  shad,  cod  (steak) ,  sword  fish,  blue  fish,  por- 
gies,  Bonito  mackerel,  pickerel,  ciscoes,  yellow  perch,  brook 
trout,  smelts,  haddock,  halibut,  salmon,  eels.  Tinker  mack- 
erel, bullheads,  white  perch,  white  fish,  soft  shell  crabs,  live 
lobster,  long  clams,  scallops,  large  oysters. 


TO  BROHi 

Fresh  mackerel,  Bonito  mackerel,  cod  scod,  chicken  hal- 
ibut, shoal  halibut,  sea  trout,  weak  fish,  Spanish  mackerel, 
fresh  salmon,  blue  fish,  large  ells  (split),  shad,  white  fish, 
trout. 


TO  BAKE 

Blue  fish,  shad,  mackerel,  haddock,  halibut,  striped 
bass,  white  fish,  lake  trout,  long  shell  clams,  live  lobster, 
large  oysters. 


DRUM  FISH,  FRIED 

Put  in  pan  of  hot  grease ;  let  it  brown ;  remove  fish  from 
pan ;  put  two  tablespoonf uls  of  flour ;  let  this  brown ;  put  in 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt;  then  thin  it;  after 
this  put  fish  into  pan  again,  and  let  simmer  until  creamy. 


FISH  n 

DETILED  TROUT,  OR  IVEAK  FISH 

Two  cupfuls  of  cold  boiled  fish,  four  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine;  thicken  one-half  pint  of  milk  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  two  of  butter.  Salt  and  ca- 
yenne pepper  to  taste,  a  grate  of  nutmeg.  Fill  ramekin; 
sprinkle  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  over  top,  brown  in 
the  oven  and  serve  at  once. 


BOILED   TROUT   OR  ROCK 

Lay  in  thin  cloth  fitted  to  the  shape  of  the  fish;  place 
in  kettle,  cover  with  cold  salt  water;  boil  gently  half  an 
hour;  drain,  lay  on  hot  dish,  garnished  with  parsley.  Pour 
over,  or  serve  in  sauceboat  the  cream  sauce.  One  cupful  of 
cream  or  rich  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  stir  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour  to  a  paste ; 
mix  into  cream  and  water ;  season  highly  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, then  cook  slowly  until  it  thickens;  add  little  chopped 
parsley,  a  few  capers  and  two  hard  bofled  eggs  chopped  fine, 
or  laid  around  the  dish;  you  can  add  Worcester  sauce  if 
proferred.    Serve  hot. 


CORNED  SHAD 

Clean  and  prepare  shad,  split  in  half.  Rub  the  shad 
well  with  one  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  red  pepper.  Place  both  halves  on 
flat  dish  for  a  few  hours.    Hang  up  until  ready  for  use. 


DELAWARE  BAKED  SHAD 

Split  a  shad,  take  out  back  bone ;  butter  a  dripping  pan, 
place  the  half  shad,  skin  down;  spread  well  with  butter; 
sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  half  hour. 


BAKED  SHAD 

Stuff  shad  with  a  good  rich  dressing;  sew  together; 
put  butter  and  water  in  pan  and  bake  (as  you  M^ould  a  fowl) 
about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Make  a  browned  sauce  with  the 
water  the  shad  was  baked  in,  and  flavor  with  sherry.  Gar- 
nish with  hard  boiled  eggs  and  le;iions,  sliced. 


12  FISH 

BAKED  SHAD 

Stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  salt,  butter,  pepper,  parsley; 
mix  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg ;  fill  the  fish ;  sew  it  up  or  fasten 
with  a  string  around  it.  Pour  over  it  a  little  water  and 
some  butter;  bake  as  you  would  a  fowl,  from  an  hour  to 
one  hour  and  a  quarter. 


PLANKED  SHAD 

Split  shad  open  and  lay  skin  side  flat  on  hot  oak  plank 
(18x24  inches),  which  has  been  well  buttered.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  and  baste  frequently.  Bake  in  oven 
or  before  an  open  fire. 


CODFISH  B.1LLS 

One  cupful  of  shredded  codfish,  two  cupfuls  of  mashed 
white  potatoes,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  pep- 
per to  taste.  Put  the  codfish  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag;  pour 
boiling  water  over  it  and  wring  out  at  once.  Add  the  other 
ingredients;  beat  until  light  with  a  fork.  Form  into  balls 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 


CRAB  FARCIES 

Eighteen  crabs  (if  heavy),  for  twelve  persons.  Boil 
till  thoroughly  done;  remove  upper  shell  and  clean  it  care- 
fully. Pick  out  the  crab  meat,  keeping  it  whole  as  possible, 
and  being  careful  to  avoid  particles  of  shell.  Simmer  a  pint 
of  cream  with  one  onion  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  till  well 
flavored ;  add  one-quarter  pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pep- 
per ;  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonf ul  of  flour.  It  must  boil 
so  that  flour  will  not  taste  raw.  Add  crab  meat  to  this 
dressing  and  fill  the  top  shells  full ;  but  do  not  pack  down. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs ;  put  small  lump  of  butter  on  top 
and  bake  in  quick  oven  till  golden  brown. 


FISH  13 

TERRAPIN 

Put  the  terrapins  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  where  they 
must  remain  until  they  are  quite  dead.  Divest  them  of  their 
outer  skin  and  toe  nails ;  after  washing  them  in  warm  water 
boil  again  until  quite  tender,  adding  a  handful  of  salt  to  the 
water.  Being  satisfied  that  they  are  perfectly  tender  take 
off  the  shell  and  clean  the  terrapins,  very  carefully  remov- 
ing the  sand  bag  and  gall  without  breaking.  Cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  adding  the  juice 
which  has  been  given  out  in  cutting  them  up,  but  no  water. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  and  black  pepper  to 
taste;  adding  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter  for  each 
terrapin  and  a  handful  of  flour  for  thickening.  After  stir- 
ring a  short  time  add  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  cream 
and  one-half  pint  of  good  Madeira  wine  to  every  four  terra- 
pins. Serve  hot  in  a  deep  dish.  A  very  little  mace  may  be 
added  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  mustard. 

Just  before  serving  add  the  yolks  of  four  hard  boiled 
eggs.  During  the  stewing  particular  attention  must  be 
paid  to  stirring  the  preparation. 

Terrapins  cannot  be  served  too  hot. 


DEVILED  CRABS 

To  one  can  of  crab  meat  add  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper 
to  taste;  a  little  parsley  and  thyme,  a  small  sized  onion 
grated,  dash  of  nutmeg,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  cupful  of  butter.  Rub  yolks  and  butter  to  a 
cream  then  add  all  the  ingredients  to  crab  meat ;  mix  thoro- 
ly.  Last  of  all  add  cream  or  milk  enough  to  moisten ;  chop 
whites  of  eggs  and  mix  in.  Fill  shells,  pour  over  each  shell 
melted  butter.     Bake  in  quick  oven  twenty  minutes. 


SOFT  SHELL  CRABS 

Clean  the  crabs  carefully  while  alive ;  season  and  dip  in 
seasoned  egg  and  cracker  dust;  fry  a  light  brown.  Serve 
with  tartar  sauce.  For  the  sauce  make  a  thick  mayonnaise, 
add  chopped  gherkins  and  capers. 


14  FISH 

SALMON  LOAF 

One  can  of  salmon  picked  fine,  one-half  cupful  bread 
crumbs,  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Free  the  salmon  from  skin  and  bone ;  cook  the  crumbs 
with  the  milk  a  few  minutes ;  add  seasoning,  salmon  and 
eggs.    Steam  one-half  hour.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 


LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG 

One  can  of  lobster,  one  cupful  of  rich  milk;  two  eggs 
beaten  in  the  milk,  a  little  butter;  cook  all  together,  and  if 
needed  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch.  Add  sherry  at  the 
last. 


DETILED  CRABS 

Dressing  for  one  can  crab  meat. — One-half  pint  of 
cream,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  two  scant  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Place  the  cream  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  in  a  pan  of 
water.  When  at  the  boihng  point  stir  in  the  ouiter  and 
flour  that  has  been  well  rubbed  together ;  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens. Put  in  the  crab  meat,  set  away  to  cool.  Before  pack- 
ing into  shells  beat  two  eggs  into  the  meat,  reserving  a 
small  part  for  the  top.  Sprinkle  with  cracker  dust  and 
plunge  into  boiling  lard  top  down. 


SCALLOPED  SALSrOIf 

Drain  the  oil  from  a  can  of  salmon  and  pick  the  fish 
fine  with  a  fork,  removing  all  the  skin  and  bones.  Put  in  a 
saucepan ;  one  cupful  of  cream  or  new  milk,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  breadcrumbs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice;  ca- 
yenne pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  it  is  hot  put  in  the 
salmon  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Have 
a  baking  dish  ready  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  some 
bits  of  butter  in  bottom;  pour  in  the  mixture,  cover  with  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  some  bits  of  butter  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  brown. 


FISH  15 

PUREE  OF  CLAMS 

Twenty-five  clams,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  pint 
of  cream  or  milk,  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  two  tablespoon- 
f uls  of  flour,  one-quarter  cupful  of  bread  crumbs ;  pepper  to 
taste.  Drain  the  clams  with  the  beater,  saving  all  the 
liquor;  put  the  liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire;  when  it 
boils,  skim ;  chop  the  clams  fine,  add  them  to  the  liquor,  let 
boil  and  skim.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add 
with  the  bread  crumbs ;  stir  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Add 
the  cream  or  milk  previously  scalded  in  a  farina  boiler ;  sea- 
son and  serve  at  once. 


SCALLOPED  CLAMS 

Chop  clams  fine;  butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  a  layer 
of  clams,  then  a  layer  of  stale  bread  crumbs;  dot  this  over 
with  bits  of  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper ;  then  add 
another  layer  of  clams,  and  so  continue  until  the  dish  is 
full ;  always  having  the  last  layer  bread  crumbs  dotted  with 
bits  of  butter  moistened  with  clam  liquor.  Bake  in  a  rather 
quick  oven  about  one-half  hour. 


DETILED  CLAIUS 

Chop  the  clams  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  if 
liked  a  bit  of  onion.  Fill  the  shells,  sprinkle  thick  with  bread 
crumbs  and  put  bits  of  butter  all  over.    Brown  in  the  oven. 


CLAM  FEITTERS 

Strain  one  pint  of  clams,  saving  the  juice;  add  to  this 
juice  sufficient  water  to  make  one  pint;  mix  into  it  an  egg, 
well  beaten,  and  sufficient  prepared  flour  to  make  a  light 
batter,  also  the  clams  chopped  and  some  salt.  Drop  by  the 
spoonful  into  boiling  hot  lard. 


CLAM  FEITTERS 

Grind  a  dozen  large  clams ;  add  juice  of  clams,  one  egg 
well  beaten,  one-quarter  cupful  of  corn  meal  or  bread 
crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Fry 
in  deep  boiling  lard.  The  beauty  of  fritters  is  to  have  them 
puff  up  like  a  ball ;  they  must  float.    Drop  from  a  teaspoon. 


16  FISH 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS 

To  six  oysters  add  two  drops  of  tabasco  sauce,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  a  fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato 
catsup;  mix  thoroughly  and  place  on  ice.  Serve  in  wine 
glasses  or  bouillon  cups. 


SHAD  ROE 

A  shad  roe:  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  cup- 
ful of  grated  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pep- 
per. 

When  butter  is  hot  add  roe  (which  has  been  boiled  ten 
minutes  in  salted  water) ,  and  break  up  lightly  with  a  fork ; 
add  eggs  mashed  fine,  seasoning  and  parsley;  add  lemon 
juice  just  before  serving. 


CELERIED  OYSTERS 

Dozen  large  oysters,  wine  glass  of  sherry,  tablespoon- 
ful  of  minced  celery,  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per; put  butter  in  chafing  dish. 

When  melted  add  oysters,  celery,  and  seasoning;  cook 
three  minutes ;  add  sherry  and  cook  two  minutes.  Serve  on 
toast. 


SHRIMP  SOUFFLE 

Two  cans  of  shrimps,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  cream,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry;  rub  the  butter  and 
flour  together  until  smooth;  put  in  the  chafing  dish,  and 
when  heated,  add  the  shrimps,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  press- 
ed through  a  sieve,  the  yolks  (mashed  fine  with  a  little  of 
the  cream),  and  the  remainder  of  the  cream.  Stir  until  all 
is  heated  through ;  then  put  the  upper  pan  in  the  bath,  add 
the  sherry ;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  serve. 


FISH  17 

WHITE  SAUCE 

Mix  in  a  bowl  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  with 
a  pat  of  butter;  add  a  little  water  and  thin  with  milk  or 
cream;  put  in  dish  over  hot  water  pan;  salt  to  taste;  stir 
constantly  and  keep  free  from  lumps  until  thoroughly  cook- 
ed; as  it  thickens  add  milk  or  cream  until  the  proper  con- 
sistency ;  when  done,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  for  an  instant. 

Crab  meat  a  la  Newburg  is  made  by  using  the  above 
sauce  with  two  cupfuls  of  crab  meat,  adding  a  little  pap- 
rika, a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne;  cook  until  meat  is  thoroughly  warmed;  then  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten;  don't  let  boil  after  eggs  go  in;  season  to  taste  and 
serve. 

Oyster  a  la  Newburg  is  made  the  same  way. 


CKEAMED  CRABS 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  generous  pint  of  picked  crab 
meat,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  creamed  with  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Put  cream  into  chafing  dish;  when  hot,  stir  in  butter 
and  flour;  boil  until  creamy,  stirring  constantly;  then  add 
crab  meat  and  serve  immediately. 


TERRAPIN 

Boil  them  until  the  shells  come  off  easily  and  the  nails 
pull  out;  remove  the  skin  from  the  legs;  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  carefully  remove  the  sand  bag  and  gall.  To  three 
good  sized  terrapins  six  hard  boiled  eggs;  mash  the  yolks 
into  a  powder  and  rub  in  one-half  pound  of  butter;  when 
creamy  and  light  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour;  put 
into  the  chafing  dish  the  meat  and  dressing;  season  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  boil  a  minute  or  two. 
Just  before  serving  add  wine  to  taste,  and  if  desired  a  very 
little  mace. 


Meats 

'The  cook  deserves  a  hearty  cuffing 
Who  serves  a  fowl  with  tasteless  stuffing. 


MEATS  19 

BROILED  STEAK  AND  OYSTER  SAUCE 

Take  a  nice  large  steak  and  broil  it  nicely;  have  your 
dish  hot  to  put  it  on.  Take  one  pint  of  small  oysters,  strain 
the  juice  and  put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  let  it  get  hot,  then 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  well  mixed;  cook  a  little,  then 
drop  in  your  oysters,  add  a  piece  of  butter  and  pour  over 
the  steak  and  serve. 


ROAST  BEEF 

Wash  and  wipe  dry  the  roast ;  place  in  baking  pan,  and 
on  the  top  put  three  thin  slices  of  onion.  Dredge  lightly 
with  red  pepper  and  a  small  sprinkling  of  brown  sugar; 
dredge  with  flour,  one  cupful  of  water  in  baking  pan.  Roast 
in  a  very  hot  oven,  basting  every  ten  minutes. 

To  have  roast  beef  rare,  roast  fifteen  minutes  to  each 
pound,  or  twenty  minutes  if  well  done. 


TEAL  LOAF 

Two  pounds  of  chopped  veal,  three  eggs,  six  crackers 
grated,  one  tablespoonful  of  sage  and  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  one  onion ;  mix  together  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
one  hour;  baste  with  butter  and  water. 


SAUSAGE 

Twelve  pounds  of  meat,  three  ounces  of  salt,  one-half 
ounce  of  black  pepper,  one-half  ounce  of  red  pepper,  one-half 
ounce  of  sage;  grind  twice. 


HABI  A  LA  ROSEYILLE 

Slice  of  ham  fully  an  inch  thick,  one  tablespoonful  of 
French  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  milk.  Soak  the  ham  in  the  mflk  one  hour;  then 
rub  the  sugar  and  mustard  into  it,  and  a  dash  or  two  of  ca- 
yenne. Put  the  ham  in  a  dripping  pan  with  the  milk  (if 
curdled  use  fresh  milk)  around  it.  Dredge  with  a  little 
flour;  cover  with  a  pan  and  bake  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Remove  the  cover  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  to  brown. 


20  M£  J  TS 

HAM  CAKES 

One  cupful  of  cold  chopped  ham,  add  two  cupfuls  of 
bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  milk  enough 
to  soften  quite  wet.  Drop  by  the  tablespoonful  into  hot 
lard;  turn  and  do  not  let  cook  too  long,  as  they  should  be 
moist  when  done. 


T03IAT0  CHICKEN  MAYONNAISE 

For  this,  choose  tomatoes  of  uniform,  medium  size, 
wipe  them  with  a  soft  damp  cloth;  cut  out  a  round  piece 
from  the  top  of  each,  and  remove  seeds  and  pulp.  Have 
ready  some  finely  minced  chicken  lightly  mixed  with  a  little 
mayonnaise  sauce ;  fill  tomatoes  with  this  mixture  and  serve 
each  on  a  slice  of  fried  bread. 


FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN 

Split  open  two  chickens  on  the  back;  have  ready  two 
frying  pans  on  the  back  of  the  stove ;  when  very  hot,  put  a 
big  lump  of  butter  in  each  pan ;  season  chickens  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  put  in  hot  pans.  Cover  closely,  putting  a 
weight  on  the  covers  to  keep  in  steam.  Cook  slowly,  turn- 
ing frequently  until  the  chickens  are  a  rich  brown  and  very 
tender.    Serve  with  gravy  and  garnish  dish  with  parsley. 


TURKEY  FILLING 

Take  one  loaf  of  bread;  break  it  up,  put  it  in  oven  and 
let  it  get  light  brown.  Then  roll  bread  fine,  chop  celery, 
onion,  parsley  and  marjoram;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  then  add  fifty  good  sized  oysters.  Moisten  all  with 
oyster  juice,  not  too  wet.  Mix  ingredients  thoroughly  be- 
fore filling  the  bird. 


TURKEY  STUFFING 

Three  quarts  of  bread  crumbs,  three  quarts  of  oysters, 
one  small  bunch  of  parsley;  season  to  taste. 


MEATS  21 

GIBLET  GRATT 

Take  liver,  gizzard,  heart  and  neck  of  turkey;  boil  un- 
til tender;  then  cut  all  very  fine.  Add  chopped  onion,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  take  some  of  the  turkey 
essence  and  add  to  these  ingredients;  let  it  boil  up  and 
thicken  with  flour.  If  turkey  is  too  greasy,  simply  use  liquor 
giblets  were  cooked  in. 


TOUEiTO  SAUCE 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Worcester- 
shire, two  onions  grated,  one  spoonful  of  butter.  Cook  all 
together  ten  minutes;  then  strain  and  thicken  with  corn- 
starch.   This  is  nice  with  roast  beef. 


HAMBURG  ROAST 

Two  or  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  beef,  one  or  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  pork,  one  egg,  one  onion,  some  bread 
crumbs,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Roll  and  put  butter  and 
plenty  of  water  in  pan.    Bake  two  hours. 


BAKED  HAMBURG  STEAK 

Take  one  pound  of  ground  meat;  add  one  teacupful  of 
bread  crumbs,  one  grated  onion,  parsley,  dash  of  nutmeg, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  small  quantity  of  tomato.  Mix  all 
these  in  with  meat;  when  mixed  form  in  loaf;  bake  in  hot 
oven  thirty  minutes,  putting  tomato  on  top  of  loaf;  also 
sifting  lightly  with  brown  sugar. 


ROAST  HAMBURG  STEAK 

To  one  pound  of  ground  beef,  take  one  teacupful  of 
bread  crumbs,  a  generous  amount  of  parsley,  one  good  sized 
onion  grated,  a  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  dash  of  nut- 
meg, one  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
season  sufficiently.  When  all  ingredients  are  thoroughly 
mixed  with  the  chopped  beef,  mold  in  oblong  loaf,  putting  a 
small  quantity  of  tomatoes  on  top.  Roast  in  oven  from 
twenty  minutes  to  one-half  hour. 


22  MEATS 

TOMATO  SAUCE  FOR  HAMBURG  STEAK 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  small  piece  of  lard  size  of  small 
egg,  Worcestershire  sauce,  parsley,  onion,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  with  a  dash  of  tabasco  sauce.  Put  all  the  ingredi- 
ents in  frying  pan;  cook  hard  for  twenty  minutes;  strain 
through  a  potato  strainer,  thicken  with  cornstarch. 


GO  HOT 

Cut  all  the  cold  meat  off  the  bones,  then  boil  the  bones 
until  the  substance  is  out.  Chop  the  meat  fine  with  three 
hard  boiled  eggs,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  and  then  put 
in  a  baking  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  water  the  bones  were 
boiled  in ;  then  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  slowly  in 
the  oven.  Flavor  with  onion  if  preferred.  This  is  a  good 
way  to  use  any  kind  of  cold  meat. 


MOCK  DUCK 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  round  steak  ground,  two 
cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  one-quar- 
ter of  an  onion  chopped,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  fat 
pork,  a  pinch  of  sage,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  two  eggs 
beaten.  Mix  all  together;  shape  in  a  roll;  lay  some  slices 
of  bacon  on  top ;  put  in  oven  and  bake  one  hour,  if  baked  in 
an  uncovered  pan,  baste  it  quite  often ;  put  a  little  water  in 
pan.  If  intended  to  be  eaten  hot,  gravy  can  be  made.  Very 
nice  sliced  cold. 

A  nice  relish  to  utilize  left  over  meats:  Take  two  or 
more  tomatoes  according  to  the  quantity  of  meat  you  have ; 
put  butter  or  lard  in  frying  pan  and  fry  tomatoes  and  one 
onion;  then  add  your  meat,  cut  as  for  hash;  stir  all  to- 
gether; sprinkle  with  fiour  and  salt;  add  milk  enough  for 
cream  gravy  and  cook  until  done. 


CREAMED  DRIED  BEEF 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  browned  in  frying  pan; 
add  one-half  pound  of  chipped  beef ;  heat  thoroughly.  Pour 
in  one  cupful  of  milk;  and  thicken  with  flour  and  water. 
Garnish  with  scrambled  eggs. 


Vegetables 


*'The  man  who  has  nothing  to  boast  of  but  his  il- 
lustrious ancestry,  is  like  a  potato.  The  only  good  be- 
longing to  him  is  underground/' 

— Overbury 


24  VEGETABLES 

YEGETABLES 

The  value  of  green  food  as  a  preservative  of  health  can- 
not be  overestimated.  Nature  provides  her  own  remedies 
and  many  of  her  common  vegetables  are  medicinal. 

For  years  the  women  of  Withersfield,  Conn.,  were  fa- 
mous for  their  beautiful  complexions,  a  beauty  ascribed  to 
the  onions  they  ate — Withersfield  being  noted  for  its  trade 
in  these  bulbs. 

A  public  benefactor  is  he  who  discovers  a  means  of  de- 
oderizing  the  onion. 

All  green  vegetables  should  be  freshly  gathered,  wash- 
ed well  in  cold  water  and  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water. 

Underground  vegetables  —  potatoes,  turnips,  etc., 
should  be  cooked  in  unsalted  water. 


POTATOES 

There  are  many  ways  of  cooking  white  potatoes  besides 
the  plain,  mashed  potatoes:  Mashed  potatoes  nicely  heaped 
upon  a  baking  dish  and  browned  in  the  oven  make  an  at- 
tractive dish.  Boiled  in  their  jackets;  boiled  whole  with 
cream  sauce;  hashed  brown  potatoes;  cut  into  small  cubes, 
boiled  in  unsalted  water  until  tender,  drain,  sprinkle  over 
them  a  little  salt,  turn  into  a  heated  dish,  pour  over  them 
two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  dust  thickly 
with  finely  chopped  parsley;  boiled  whole  with  melted  but- 
ter and  parsley,  etc.  These  are  some  of  the  many  ways  to 
cook  them. 


FRIED  TOMATOES  WITH  CREAM  GRATT 

Wash  and  cut  in  halves  firm  and  well  filled  tomatoes; 
lay  in  pan  with  skin  side  down ;  place  a  lump  of  butter  over 
each  slice;  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper;  fry  slowly;  turn 
and  cook  the  other  side.  When  done  place  carefully  upon  a 
heated  dish.  Brown  the  butter  in  the  pan  and  add  gradu- 
ally two  tablespoonfuls  of  fiour  and  a  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk,  stirring  all  the  time  until  smooth;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  pour  it  over  tomatoes  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES  25 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Peel  potatoes  and  cut  in  eight  lengthwise  strips,  or 
slice  very  thin.  Throw  into  iced  water  for  an  hour;  drain; 
pat  dry  between  the  folds  of  a  towel,  or  napkin,  and  fry  to 
a  golden  brown  in  deep  boiling  fat.  When  tender,  take  from 
the  pan  with  a  skimmer  and  turn  into  a  colander  lined  with 
tissue  or  brown  paper,  to  absorb  any  grease  that  may  ad- 
here to  them.  Stand  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  serve. 


CREA3IED  WHITE  POTATOES 

Cut  raw  potatoes  in  dice,  or  one-half  inch  square 
pieces;  cook  until  tender  in  unsalted  water.  Cream  a  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  add  a  part  of  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  to  a  cupful  of  milk ;  add  a  little  salt, 
cook  and  pour  over  the  potatoes.  Serve  hot  in  an  uncovered 
dish. 


STUFFED  POTATOES,  NO.  1 

Wash  medium  sized  potatoes  and  bake  until  soft.  Cut 
potatoes  almost  in  half,  take  out  the  potato  meat ;  put  in  a 
bowl,  half  an  onion  (chopped)  and  a  little  parsley,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Add  enough  cream  to  moisten  potatoes; 
whip  all  together  until  very  light;  place  back  in  their  jack- 
ets, and  heat  in  the  oven;  then  serve. 


STUFFED  POTATOES,  NO.  2 

Bake  six  good  sized  potatoes.  When  done,  cut  off  the 
tops  and  with  a  spoon  scoop  out  the  potatoes  into  a  hot 
bowl;  mash  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-quarter 
cupful  of  hot  milk,  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Beat  until  very  light;  then  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs;  stir  gently.  Fill  the  skins  with  this  mixture, 
heaping  it  on  the  top;  brush  over  with  the  beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs ;  put  in  the  oven  to  brown,  then  serve. 


2fi  VEGETABLES 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES  WITH  TOMATOES,  NO.  2 

Pare  potatoes,  slice  thin  and  cover  bottom  of  earthen 
dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter.  Then 
cover  with  a  layer  of  tomatoes;  fill  the  dish  in  this  way, 
and  sprinkle  plenty  of  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  till  thor- 
oughly done. 


SCALLOPED   POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE,  NO.  3 

Pare  potatoes,  slice  thin  and  cover  bottom  of  earthen 
dish;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter;  then 
add  a  layer  of  cheese;  fill  the  dish  in  this  way,  then  pour 
about  a  cupful  of  milk  over  it.  Place  in  oven,  and  bake  till 
thoroughly  done. 


DETILED  WHITE  POTATOES 

Select  nice  large  potatoes,  oblong  preferred;  bake  until 
thoroughly  done.  Cut  in  half  (lengthwise),  mash,  season 
and  cream  them  to  taste.  Fill  the  shells,  put  large  piece  of 
butter  on  each,  and  brown  in  hot  oven.   Serve  hot. 


POTATO  PUFF 

To  one  cupful  of  cold  mashed  white  potatoes,  stir  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  beating  until  creamy 
(the  more  they  are  beaten  the  more  creamy  they  will  be). 
Add  to  the  potatoes  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  season ;  then  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs, 
turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  The  potatoes  will  puff  and  be  very 
light. 


POTATO  BALLS 

For  three  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  take  yolks  of  two 
eggs  (raw),  beat  them  thoroughly  through  potatoes;  one 
small  onion,  grated;  one-quarter  of  nutmeg,  grated;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  thoroughly  through  potatoes ; 
make  out  in  balls;  then  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  dust.  Let 
stand  until  crust  forms.    Fry  in  deep  boiling  lard. 


VEGETABLES  27 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  the  potatoes  until  nearly  but  not  quite  done;  re- 
move from  water  and  scrape  the  skins  from  them;  cut  in 
half  (lengthwise)  ;  lay  in  baking  pan  round  side  up;  pour 
over  them  a  teaspoonf ul  of  melted  butter ;  dust  thickly  with 
granulated  sugar;  place  in  hot  oven.  When  glazed  by  the 
action  of  the  heat,  take  them  out ;  turn  the  flat  side  up  and 
repeat  the  operation.    Very  nice. 


DRESSI\(r:fOR  POTATOES 

Take  the  raw  potatoes  and  slice  a  layer  of  them  quite 
thin,  and  put  in  a  baking  dish.  Put  small  pieces  of  butter 
on  them,  then  a  little  salt,  black  pepper,  and  parsley  cut  as 
small  as  possible.  Put  other  layers  of  potatoes  and  season- 
ing in  the  same  way  until  the  dish  is  sufficiently  full;  then 
pour  on  rich,  sweet  milk  until  the  dish  is  entirely  full.  Bake 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  This  is  a  very  good  dish  for 
supper  or  breakfast. 


MISCELLANEOUS  VEGETABLES 


CAKOLDTA  WAT   OF   COOKOG  EICE 

One  coffee  cupful  of  best  rice,  wash  five  or  six  times. 
Let  it  stand  in  a  little  water  until  needed,  then  pour  off. 
Throw  it  into  a  quart  of  freshly  boiling  water;  let  it  boil 
rapidly  until  tender ;  pour  it  into  a  colander,  and  over  it  one 
quart  of  boiling  water.  Each  grain  will  be  separate.  Set 
back  on  stove  to  keep  hot.  A  nice  addition  is  one  cup  of 
milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  added  boiling  hot  to 
the  rice  just  before  serving.  Do  not  stir  the  rice  when 
cooking. 


BOILED  KICE 

Boil  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  half  pint  of  water ;  when  the  rice 
has  absorbed  the  water,  put  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  let  boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.    Don't  stir  while  cooking. 


28  VEGETABLES 

ASPARAGUS  ON  TOAST,  NO.  1 

After  removing  the  tough  part,  lay  the  tender  stalk  of 
the  asparagus  into  boiling  water  slightly  salted.  Cook  slow- 
ly until  tender;  lift  carefully,  and  lay  upon  slices  of  crust- 
less  bread  toasted  a  golden  brown;  and  pour  over  them 
cream  sauce.  Garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs.  To 
be  served  piping  hot. 


ASP^iKAGUS  ON  TOAST,  NO.  2 

Cut  off  all  the  tough  parts,  lay  the  stalks  in  a  pan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  slowly  for  one-half  hour. 
Ten  minutes  before  it  is  done  add  a  little  salt.  Have  ready 
some  slices  of  toasted  bread;  butter  well  and  put  a  table- 
spoonful  or  two  of  the  water  over  it.  Take  the  asparagus 
up  carefully  and  lay  on  the  toast.  Pour  over  this  a  cream 
sauce. 


FEIED  EGG  PLANT 

Peel  the  egg-plants,  slice  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them;  let  themi  remain  one-half  hour;  wipe  the  slices  dry, 
dip  them  in  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  in  crumbs  of  crackers 
or  bread,  fry  them  a  light  brown  in  boiling  lard.  Pepper 
them  slightly  while  frying.  Another  way  is  to  parboil  them 
in  a  little  water  after  they  are  peeled,  then  slice,  dust  with 
flour,  and  fry. 


CREAMED  ONIONS 

To  keep  them  white,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  boil  five 
minutes,  drain  off  the  water,  cover  again  with  boiling  water, 
to  which  add  a  very  little  salt,  cook  until  tender,  no  longer. 
Drain  the  water  from  them,  add  a  cupful  of  hot  milk  with 
a  liberal  piece  of  butter  and  pepper.    Serve. 


CAULIFLOWER 

Soak  it  head  down  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  to  draw 
out  any  insects  that  may  harbor  in  it,  cut  off  all  the  super- 
fluous leaves  and  put  it  into  boiling  salted  water;  boil  until 
tender.  Take  up  and  drain  in  a  colander;  pour  over  it  a 
gravy  made  of  boiling  milk,  with  flour  and  butter  mixed 
together  and  stirred  into  it.     Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 


VEGETABLES  29 

STEIVED   CELERY  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

Stew  the  celery,  strain  off  water,  pour  over  it  cream 
sauce  as  follows:  Cream  sauce,  stir  together  over  the  fire 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  then  add  a  cup- 
ful of  cream  or  milk  heated,  stir  continually  until  it  boils. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  use  at  once. 


SUMMER  SQUASH 

Unless  they  are  extremely  tender,  it  is  best  to  pare 
them,  cutting  away  as  little  as  possible  beside  the  hard 
outer  rind;  take  out  the  ends,  quarter  them,  and  lay  the 
pieces  in  cold  water.  Boil  about  an  hour.  Drain  well, 
pressing  out  all  the  water ;  mash  soft  and  smooth ;  and  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 


CORJf  PUDDOG 

Three  ears  of  corn,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  e^g,  two  eggs  beaten 
separately,  salt.    Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 


CORN  FRITTERS,  NO.  1 

To  three  ears  of  corn  cut  fine,  add  one  well  beaten  egg, 
a  little  sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Dredge  flour  enough  to 
hold  them  together  nicely;  fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed. 


CORN  FRITTERS,  NO.  2 

One  pint  of  grated  corn,  one-half  teacupful  milk,  one- 
half  teacupful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  one 
tablespoonful  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  a  dash  of  pepper.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 


CREAMED   SIUSHROOMS 

Peel  large,  fresh  mushrooms,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water.  To  a  quart  of 
mushrooms  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  let  simmer  ten 
minutes.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  cream,  in  which  should  be  mixed 
a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Stir  two  or  three  minutes, 
and  take  up. 


30  VEGETABLES 

GREENS 

Boil  beet  tops,  turnip  tops,  spinach,  cabbage  sprouts, 
dandelion  and  lamb's  quarter,  in  salted  water  until  they  are 
tender;  drain  in  a  colander,  pressing  hard.  Serve  them, 
garnished  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced. 


SPINACH 

Pick  leaves  from  stems,  and  wash  through  four  waters. 
Pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  put  on  stove  and  cook 
well.  Drain  and  chop  fine;  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 


CREAM  SAUCE,  NO.  1 

The  proportions  of  butter  and  flour  in  a  cream  sauce 
are  about  the  same;  though  the  amount  of  milk  may  vary 
according  to  the  consistency  required :  For  milk  toast,  thin ; 
for  potatoes,  medium ;  for  croquets,  very  stiff;  for  most  pur- 
poses, two  cups  of  milk,  or  one  of  milk  and  one  of  cream, 
are  used  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  each  flour  and  butter. 
Put  in  the  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and 
flour;  heat  over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is  melted  and  the 
mixture  "bubbly,"  but  do  not  let  the  flour  brown ;  then  put 
in  the  milk,  cold  or  warm;  stir  until  smooth  and  creamy, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


STRING  BEANS 

Get  them  young  and  crisp,  string  them,  break  in  halves 
and  boil  in  water  with  a  little  salt  until  tender.  Drain  free 
from  water,  season  with  pepper;  add  butter,  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  cream  or  milk,  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 


BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

Soak  a  pint  of  beans  over  night;  put  into  a  pot  with 
one-half  pound  of  salt  pork,  and  boil  until  tender.  Drain; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt;  stir  in  a  small  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses, and  turn  into  an  earthen  bean  pot;  put  the  pork  in 
the  centre  of  the  beans;  cover  the  pot  and  bake  for  six  or 
eight  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES  31 

LDIA  BEANS 

Put  a  pint  of  beans  in  just  enough  boiling  salted  water 
to  cover  them,  boil  till  tender ;  then  drain  off  the  water ;  add 
a  cupful  of  cream,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer 
a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 


GREEN  PEAS 

Boiling  water  to  cover  them ;  add  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt ; 
cover  the  stew-pan  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour,  or  until 
soft;  drain  off  the  water;  add  to  them  a  generous  lump  of 
butter,  a  little  pepper  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Drawn  butter,  with  a  milk  foundation,  may  be  poured  over 
them  after  taking  them  from  the  water  in  which  they  were 
cooked.    Serve  hot. 


PEAS  IN  CASES 

Cut  slices  of  bread  three  inches  square;  remove  suffi- 
cient of  the  inner  portion  to  form  a  box ;  brush  slightly  with 
melted  butter ;  brown  in  the  oven.  When  ready  for  use,  fill 
with  cooked  and  seasoned  peas,  slightly  thickened. 


SUCCOTASH 

This  is  made  of  green  corn  and  lima  beans.  Have  a 
third  more  corn  than  beans,  when  the  former  has  been 
cut  from  the  cob,  and  the  beans  shelled.  Put  into  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  stew  gently  until  tender,  stirr- 
ing now  and  then.  Pour  off  nearly  all  the  water  and  add  a 
large  cupful  of  milk;  stew  in  this  for  one-half  hour;  then 
stir  in  a  great  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  wet 
with  cold  milk;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Succotash  may  also  be  made  of  dry  corn  and  beans,  but 
they  must  be  soaked  all  night  before  using. 


TO  COOK  CANNED  CORN 

Open  the  top  of  can  with  a  can  opener,  turn  out  the 
corn  into  a  saucepan ;  add  to  it  one-quarter  cupful  of  cream, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  stir 
over  the  fire  until  very  hot.    Serve. 


32  VEGETABLES 

STEAMED  CORN 

Prepare  the  corn  as  for  boiling.  Place  it  in  the  kettle 
and  pour  a  little  hot  water  over  it;  cover  the  kettle  tightly 
and  stand  it  where  it  will  steam  (not  boil)  for  thirty  min- 
utes; salt  after  it  is  done.  Corn  is  at  its  best  when  salted, 
buttered  and  eaten  from  the  ear. 


STUFFED  TOMATOES 

Cut  the  top  from  soft  part  of  tomatoes;  let  hang  on 
hinge;  scoop  out  contents,  strain  to  get  out  seeds;  have 
chopped  meat  well  seasoned  with  rice  that  has  been  par- 
boiled, put  this  in  tomatoes ;  shut  down  lid.  Place  them  in 
a  pan  close  together;  pour  the  tomato  juice  around  them. 
Either  steam  or  bake  one  hour. 


BROILED  TOMATOES 

Choose  large  firm  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  halves  but  do 
not  peel  them ;  then  place  them  in  a  broiler,  dust  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  broil  over  a  clear  but  moderate  fire,  skin 
side  down,  until  tender  (about  twenty  minutes).  When 
done,  lift  carefully  to  a  heated  dish  or  plate,  pour  melted 
butter  over  them,  and  serve. 


STEWED  T03IAT0ES 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  with  a  sharp  knife  re- 
move the  skins  and  the  hard  stem  ends,  cut  them  in  pieces, 
stew  in  a  saucepan  for  one-half  hour.  To  every  quart  of  to- 
matoes add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  until  of  the  desired  thick- 
ness. 

The  tomatoes  may  be  thickened  with  bread  crumbs. 


VEGETABLES  33 

BAKED  MACARONI 

One-quarter  pound  of  macaroni,  one-quarter  pound  of 
grated  cheese,  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Break  macaroni  in  small 
pieces,  put  into  a  two-quart  kettle  nearly  full  of  boiling 
water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  boil  rapidly  twenty-five 
minutes;  drain  in  a  colander;  then  throw  into  cold  water 
and  blanch  for  ten  minutes;  drain  again  in  the  colander; 
put  a  layer  of  macaroni  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then 
a  layer  of  cheese,  salt  and  pepper,  then  another  layer  of 
macaroni,  and  so  on;  cut  butter  in  small  pieces  and  put 
over  the  top ;  add  cream,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on.  top.  Bake 
until  a  golden  brown  (about  twenty  minutes). 


MACARONI 

Eighteen  sticks  of  macaroni,  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  thin  white  sauce,  one  cup  of 
stale  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese;  salt  and  pep- 
per. Break  the  macaroni  into  two  inch  pieces,  cook  in. boil- 
ing salted  water  thirty  minutes,  or  until  soft;  strain  in  a 
colander,  pour  cold  water  through  it;  place  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish ;  add  the  sauce  with  one-half  cup  of  the  cheese ; 
add  to  crumbs  the  butter  and  remaining  one-half  cup  of 
cheese  and  spread  over  top.  Bake  until  brown  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 


MACARONI  WITH  OYSTERS 

Boil  macaroni  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender;  put 
into  a  colander,  pour  cold  water  over  it;  then  place  it  in  a 
baking  dish  with  a  layer  of  raw  oysters,  bits  of  butter ;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper;  then  another  layer  of  macaroni, 
so  on,  until  the  dish  is  full.  The  top  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
and  bits  of  butter;  then  pour  over  all  a  cup  of  milk  and 
bake. 

Tomatoes  may  be  substituted  for  oysters. 


Bread 

^'When  the  man  earns  the  bread  by  the  sweat  of 
his  brew,  the  woman  should  be  willing  to  perspire  a 
little  in  the  baking/' 


BREAD  35 

YEAST 

Six  large  potatoes,  one  cupful  of  hops,  one  cupful  of 
flour.  Boil  the  hops  in  one  quart  of  water;  pour  the  water 
from  the  hops  over  the  potatoes  (that  are  mashed),  and 
mix  the  flour  into  it ;  add  one  tablespoon  of  sugar ;  little  salt 
and  cook  until  done.  Add  one  cake  of  yeast  mixed  in  a  lit- 
tle water  when  cool,  and  let  it  rise.  Keep  this  yeast  in  cool 
place. 


YEAST 

Grate  three  good  sized  potatoes ;  add  one  quart  of  boil- 
ing water  and  when  cool,  add  an  even  tablespoonful  of  salt 
and  one  of  sugar,  and  a  cupful  of  yeast.  Let  it  stand  until 
night,  when  it  is  ready  for  use. 


BAKING  POWDEK 

One  pound  of  bi-carbonate  soda,  twelve  ounces  of  tar- 
taric acid,  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  pound  of  flour 
or  cornstarch.    Mix  well  and  sieve  several  times. 


BAKOG  POWDER 

Two  and  one-half  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  pound 
of  bi-carbonate  soda,  one  package  of  cornstarch.  Mix  well 
and  sift  seven  times. 


DELAWARE  BISCUITS 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  six  ounces  of  lard,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  rubbed  together  well  with  one  pint  of  cold 
water.    Beat  till  they  blister. 


WHEAT  MUFFIJfS 

Put  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  in  a  saucepan  on  the  stove, 
adding  a  scant  cupful  of  lard,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salt  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar;  let  all  heat  to- 
gether, then  add  cold  water  to  make  the  mixture  milk 
warm;  while  cooling  dissolve  one-half  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  in  a  teacupful  of  warm  water,  which  add  with  four 
well-beaten  eggs,  stirring  in  flour  sufficient  to  make  the 
batter  moderately  stiff ;  when  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


36  BREAD 

COENMEAL  CAKES 

To  one  cupful  of  sifted  meal  add  a  lump  of  butter,  pour 
over  it  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  when  cool  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  flour,  a  little 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  on  a  hot 
griddle. 


GEOKGIA  INDIAN  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonf ul  of  sugar,  one  Qgg, 
butter  half  the  size  of  an  %gg,  one  cupful  of  cornmeal,  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  heaping  spoonful  baking  pow- 
der, a  little  salt. 

STEADIED  INDIA:N  LOAF 

Two  cupfuls  of  cornmeal,  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  large  one-half 
cupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  little  salt. 
Steam  in  a  mold  for  three  hours. 


HARTFORD  CORN  BREAD 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one-quarter  cupful  of 
butter  or  lard,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three-quar- 
ters cupful  of  flour,  three-quarters  cupful  of  corn  meal  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  mixed  in  the  meal. 


CORN  BREAD 

One  overflowing  pint  of  cornmeal,  one-half  pint  of  flour, 
two  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  lard  size  of  a 
big  walnut,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs.  Add  the  yolks  of 
eggs  without  beating,  and  beat  the  whites  stiff  arid  add  last. 


QUICK  MUFFINS 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  pint  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  ,two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard,  one  egg.  Warm  the  milk  and  dissolve  the 
sugar,  salt  and  lard  in  it.  Mix  with  flour  enough  to  make  a 
thin  batter ;  beat  egg  light,  sift  in  baking  powder  with  flour 
and  add  egg  last.     Bake  in  greased  gem  tins. 


BREAD  37 

BREAD  MUFFINS 

One  pint  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  sifted  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  melt- 
ed butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  cover  bread 
crumbs  with  milk,  and  for  one-half  hour  beat  eggs  sepa- 
rately ;  add  yolks  to  bread  and  milk,  then  melted  butter  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  well  together ;  add  flour,  beat 
till  smooth  and  stir  in  carefully  whites  of  eggs  and  baking 
powder.    Bake  in  greased  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven  thirty 

minutes.  

RICE  WAFFLES 

One  and  three-quarters  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two-thirds  cupful  of  cold 
cooked  rice,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  salt,  one  and  one-quar- 
ter cupfuls  of  milk,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Sift  together  thor- 
oughly ;  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Work  in  rice ; 
add  milk,  yolk  of  egg  beaten,  butter  and  white  of  egg  beaten 
stiff.    Cook  on  hot  waffle  iron. 


SARATOGA  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

One  quart  of  milk;  two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  salt,  flour.  Boil  half  the 
milk  in  double  boiler  and  thicken  until  as  thick  as  mush. 
When  cold,  add  rest  of  milk,  eggs,  salt  and  baking  powder, 
and  flour  enough  to  fry. 


SALLY  LUNX 

One  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pounds 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  yeast, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Salt  to  taste ;  warm  the  milk  and 
lard  together,  let  cool  before  mixing. 


IRISH  BREAD 

One  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  yeast,  two  eggs,  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg,  flour  enough  to  stir  very  stiff.  Stir  about 
noon  if  needed  at  evening.  Pour  into  same  basin  that  you 
expect  to  bake  it  in;  let  rise  once;  bake  in  moderate  oven 
half  an  hour;  take  off  top  crust  and  split  through  the  cen- 
ter; break  the  edge  with  a  knife,  then  use  a  string.  Good 
and  little  trouble. 


38  BREAD 

CINNAMON  BUNS  OR  RUSKS 

One-half  pint  of  milk,  one-half  pint  of  water,  one  cake 
Vienna  yeast  dissolved  in  the  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  Httle 
nutmeg.  Scald  milk  and  butter  together,  and  cool ;  beat  two 
eggs  light;  add  to  milk  and  butter;  then  add  yeast,  sugar, 
salt  and  nutmeg;  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  sponge. 
When  light  make  out  not  too  stiff.  Let  rise  again,  then  cut 
out,  or  make  into  rolls  and  bake. 


BREAD 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  piece  of  lard  size  of  a  small  egg,  one 
cake  of  Fleischman's  yeast,  one  tablespoonful  white  pota- 
to. Sift  flour,  sugar  and  salt  into  a  bowl;  rub  in  the  lard; 
dissolve  yeast  and  potato  in  a  cup  of  water  and  add  to  the 
flour,  using  enough  water  to  mix  the  flour.  Knead  well  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  lighten ;  then  knead  well  again.  Make 
out  in  loaves  or  rolls  and  set  away  to  lighten  a  second  time. 
When  light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


OLD-FASHIONED  RISING  BREAD 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  meal,  a  little  salt  made  thin 
with  new  milk,  and  then  scald.  When  cool  enough  to  hold 
your  finger  in,  thicken  with  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Set 
in  hot  water  near  the  stove  to  rise,  changing  the  water 
when  cool  for  hot.  At  10  o'clock  add  two  spoonfuls  of  flour. 
At  12  o'clock  it  will  be  up;  then  sift  flour  with  salt  into  the 
rising  with  a  large  lump  of  lard. 


MRS.  SALLIE  E.  POLK'S  ROLLS 

Five  small  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine,  one-half 
pint  of  new  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  quarts  of 
flour  sifted,  and  lard  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  rubbed  in  the 
flour.  After  mashing  the  potatoes  put  in  the  milk  and  let 
it  come  to  a  simmer,  and  when  cool  enough  put  in  one-half 
teacupful  of  yeast. 


BREAD  39 

FOGEE  ROLLS 

Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  one  pint  of  hot  milk,  when 
lukewarm  add  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of 
warm  water,  and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar. 
Then  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  well  and 
put  in  a  bowl,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  three  hours ; 
then  turn  this  dough  out  on  a  board,  cut  it  in  small  lengths 
and  shape  into  rolls  as  long  as  a  finger  and  place  them  in 
rows  on  a  greased  pan.  Cover  and  set  aside  again  for  one 
hour.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
water;  brush  each  roll,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes. 


PARKER  HOUSE   ROLLS 

Six  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  large  table- 
spoonful  of  lard,  one-half  cake  of  yeast,  one-half  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  even  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Rub  lard  and  flour 
together  in  a  large  bowl;  make  a  well  in  the  centre,  and 
pour  the  cooled  milk  with  the  sugar  and  yeast  dissolved  in 
it,  into  the  well.  Let  this  sponge  to  lighten.  As  it  lightens 
the  flour  will  fall  from  the  sides.  In  the  morning  make  into 
dough,  knead  well  in  the  bowl.  Let  it  rise  the  second  time ; 
when  hght,  make  into  pocket  book  rolls ;  let  rise  again  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Brush  with  lard  when  rolls  be- 
gin to  brown.    This  will  glaze  and  make  them  soft. 


POP  OYERS 

Two  teacupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  two  teacupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs  beaten, 
one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Fill  hot  gem  pans  half  full. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 


POCKETBOOK  ROLLS 

One  pint  of  new  milk  warmed  with  a  good  half  cupful 
of  lard,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  or  three  teaspoonfuls 
sugar,  and  salt  to  taste,  one-half  cupful  of  yeast.  Mix  first 
with  a  spoon  and  continue  to  add  flour  till  you  have  a  toler- 
ably stiff  dough.  When  light,  knead  it  well  again ;  roll  out 
and  cut  with  the  top  of  flour  box;  turn  each  one  over  in 
the  shape  of  a  pocketbook;  then  let  them  rise  again  and 
bake.     If  you  prefer  they  are  very  nice  made  into  rolls. 


40  BREAD 

POTATO  ROLLS 

Take  two  coffee-cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes,  one-half 
cupful  of  lard,  two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  yeast,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  the  ingredients 
into  rather  a  stiff  sponge  about  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning, 
and  when  light,  which  should  be  about  twelve,  make  a  dough 
of  sufficient  flour  to  mix  the  sponge  well  and  roll  into  a  sheet 
and  cut  out,  placing  them  in  pan  just  near  enough  to  touch, 
and  when  light  again  bake. 


POTATO  ROLLS 

Two  eggs  beaten  light  with  one-half  cupful  of  sugar; 
beat  in  one  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  three  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  yeast,  one-half  cupful  of 
melted  butter  or  lard.  Beat  sugar,  lard  and  eggs  together. 
Set  sponge  to  rise  in  the  morning ;  about  twelve  o'clock  mold 
it  nearly  as  stiff  as  bread.  Let  it  rise  twice,  then  make  in- 
to rolls;  let  it  rise  again  and  bake. 


GOOD  BROWJ«^  BREAD 

Four  teacupfuls  of  meal,  two  teacupfuls  of  flour,  two 
teacupfuls  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  two  teacupfuls  of 
sweet  milk,  two-thirds  teacupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter.    Steam  three  hours  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

MRS.  WILLIAMS'  BROWIf   BREAD 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  milk,  and-  if  sour  use  one  level 
tablespoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one-half  cupful  of  boiling 
water;  if  sweet,  use  a  good  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  cup  of 
New  Orleans  molasses,  graham  flour  sufficient  to  make  bat- 
ter like  pound  cake.    Salt  to  taste. 


WHOLE   WHEAT  BREAD 

One  quart  of  milk  or  milk  and  water,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  one  small  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  warm  water,  scald  the  milk  and  dissolve 
sugar  in  it,  then  add  yeast  and  salt;  stir  in  the  flour  to  make 
thick  batter.  Beat  thoroughly  and  let  it  rise  till  it  seems 
as  much  again ;  then  beat  again  thoroughly  and  put  in  pans 
to  rise  again.  When  light  bake  in  an  oven  not  quite  hot 
enough  for  white  bread. 


BREAD  41 

PLAIN  LOAF  BREAD 

One  pint  of  milk  scalded,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  lard 
and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar.  When  cool,  add 
one-half  cupful  of  yeast  or  one-half  cake  of  compressed 
yeast,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Beat 
thoroughly  until  the  batter  is  full  of  air-bubbles.  Cover  and 
let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  morning.  Early  in  the  morn- 
ing add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  quickly 
until  smooth  and  elastic  and  let  rise  until  twice  its  bulk. 
Mould  into  loaves,  and  let  rise  again  until  light.  Bake  in 
moderately  quick  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


COEN  DODGEES 

Mix  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar  with  two 
cupfuls  of  white  meal,  then  put  one  tablespoonful  of  lard 
in  center  and  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  wet  the 
meal.  Beat  one  egg  until  very  light,  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  milk,  and  stir  into  the  meal.  Beat  the  whole  well.  Drop 
by  tablespoonfuls  in  greased  pans  and  bake  in  very  hot  oven 
fifteen  minutes. 


HOE  CAKE 

Put  one  pint  of  cornmeal  into  a  bowl  and  add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  pour  over  it  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
just  moisten  the  meal,  and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes;  then 
add  water  until  the  batter  will  drop  nicely  from  a  spoon. 
Bake  on  griddle  and  serve  with  a  bit  of  butter  on  top  of 
each  cake. 


Salads 

''We  may  pick  a  thousand  salads  ere  we  light  on 
such  another." 

All's  well  that  ends  well. 


SALADS  43 

MATONJfAISE  DRESSING 

Put  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  in  a  dish  and  beat  for  a 
minute  with  a  silver  fork,  then  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  a  few  drops  (about  half  a  tea- 
spoonful)  of  either  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

After  mixing  these  together,  add  drop  by  drop  a  half 
pint  of  olive  oil,  being  careful  to  beat  rapidly  and  without 
reversing  the  motion.  If  the  dressing  becomes  too  thick 
add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  The  dressing  is  improv- 
ed if  placed  for  a  few  minutes  on  ice  before  using. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten ;  beat  in  oil,  drop  by 
drop,  until  you  can  turn  dish  upside  down;  red  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  thin  with  sour  whipped  cream;  beat  with  a 
silver  fork. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  six 
teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  a  pinch  of 
red  pepper,  one  egg,  a  little  sugar;  boil  until  it  thickens. 


SALAD  DRESSING 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-eighth  teaspoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper,  one  cupful  of  milk  and  cream  mixed,  one- 
half  cupful  of  vinegar,  three  eggs. 

Heat  the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  the  flour  and  stir 
until  smooth,  being  careful  not  to  brown ;  add  the  milk  and 
cream  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  place  the  saucepan  into  an- 
other pan  of  hot  water,  add  the  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and 
mustard ;  after  they  have  been  beaten  together  and  the  vine- 
gar added  stir  the  whole  until  it  thickens,  which  will  require 
about  five  minutes.    Set  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  use. 


44  SALADS 

LAKE  FISH  SALAD 

Take  a  nice  large  fish  (one  with  coarse  flesh  is  better) , 
boil  until  tender  and  let  it  cool ;  chop,  not  too  fine,  and  add 
some  nice  tender  lettuce,  if  you  can't  get  celery;  make  a 
dressing  of  three  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  cook  until  thick. 

Save  out  two  whites  of  the  eggs,  beat  light  and  add  to 
dressing  when  cold;  thin  with  cream.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 


SHRDIP  SALAD 

Break  each  shrimp  in  half  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  this  dressing:  two  eggs,  beat  whites  slightly,  then  the 
yolks,  and  add  to  whites ;  put  in  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
the  same  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  one-half 
cup  of  vinegar.  Cook  until  smooth.  A  little  mustard  may 
be  added  if  preferred.  When  cold  add  one-half  cup  of 
whipped  cream.  The  cream  should  be  added  just  before 
serving. 


CHICKEIf  SALAD 

One  chicken  weighing  about  three  pounds,  one  pound 
fresh  pork  roasted  and  well  basted;  cut  both  into  small 
pieces;  dress  with  mayonnaise. 

Dressing: — Yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  mashed  soft; 
add  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs ;  when  quite  thick  add  seasoning 
to  taste;  paprika,  cayenne  pepper,  mustard,  salt,  a  gill  of 
olive  oil  and  vinegar  to  taste;  ingredients  well  mixed  so 
that  no  prominence  shall  be  given  to  any  one  ingredient. 


CHICKEN  SALAD  DRESSING 

Stir  into  the  yolks  of  four  raw  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  at  a 
time,  three  wine  glasses  of  chicken  oil;  beat  well,  and  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  mustard,  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste,  two  wine  glasses  of  vinegar  (best  use  according  to 
taste)  and  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk.  Put  into  a  farina 
kettle  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  cool  before  putting  on 
the  chicken. 


SALADS  45 

TOMATO  SALAD 

Pare  three  large  tomatoes  and  put  on  the  ice  to  get  cold. 
Take  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  the  same  of  mustard,  a  little  red  pepper  and  two 
teaspoonsf uls  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter ;  mix  all  together, 
then  add  enough  vinegar  to  make  like  thick  cream. 

When  ready  to  serve,  slice  the  tomatoes  and  pour  dress- 
ing over  them.  Cut  the  whites  of  eggs  in  rings  and  garnish 
dish. 


CRAB  SALAD 

Prepare  crab  meat  as  for  deviled  crabs;  cut  by  removing 
seeds  and  inside  meat,  from  as  many  good  sized  round  ripe 
tomatoes  as  needed.  Fill  these  cups  with  crab  meat,  place 
same  on  salad  leaves  and  pour  over  your  favorite  salad 
dressing.    Excellent  and  pretty. 


MISERS'  SAUCE 

Take  some  young  onions  or  shallots  and  chop  them  fine, 
a  little  scalded  parsley  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  grated  horse- 
radish. Mix  these  with  salad  oil  and  vinegar,  taking  an 
equal  quantity  of  each. 


Chafing  Dish 


CHAFING  DISH 

Charles  Lamb's  receipt  to  roast  a  pig*  was  to  run  the 
pig  inside  your  house  and  burn  the  house  down  to  make 
sufficient  heat.  But  the  nimble  Frenchman  in  contrast  to 
the  burly  Briton  has  taught  us  how  to  cook  with  a  kit  small 
enough  to  be  held  in  the  grasp  of  a  hand.  So  take  your 
chafing  dish,  light  your  spirit  lamp,  call  in  your  friends,  and 
with  any  of  the  following  recipes,  accompanied  sotto  voce, 
by  "a  cold  bottle  and  another  one" — while  hands  are  busy 
and  hearts  are  happy  "le  vie  Boheme  of  gay  Paree"  will 
soften  the  stiff  sedateness  of  our  Yankee  land  and  all  go 
merry  as  a  marriage  bell. 


CHAFING  DISH  47 

DEVILED  EGGS 

Five  hard  boiled  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  heaping  ta- 
blespoonful  grated  cheese,  small  coffee  spoonful  dry  mus- 
tard; take  spoonful  of  olive  oil,  salt,  red  and  black  pepper; 
mix  the  yolks,  mustard,  olive  oil  and  condiments  together 
in  a  bowl  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon ;  put  into  the  chaf- 
ing dish  the  milk ;  the  butter  with  which  the  cornstarch  has 
been  mixed ;  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  cut  fine ;  a  little  salt. 

Stir  constantly  until  boiling  hot.  In  the  meantime  let 
some  one  spread  thick  over  slices  of  buttered  toast  the 
paste,  over  which  scatter  the  cheese;  over  this  pour  this 
hot  white  sauce  and  serve. 


FRICASSED  EGGS 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  sprig  of  parsley,  half  a  dozen  minced  mush- 
rooms, half  pint  white  stock  (veal  or  chicken) ,  half  a  dozen 
hard  boiled  eggs  (sliced). 

Put  butter  into  chafing  dish;  when  melted  add  flour, 
stirring  constantly;  parsley  (cut  fine),  mushrooms  and 
stock ;  simmer  five  minutes ;  add  half  cupful  of  cream  slow- 
ly ;  then  the  eggs  (sliced) .    Boil  up  once  and  serve  very  hot. 


FRICASSED  EGGS 

Six    eggs,    beaten    separately;    six   tablespoonfuls    of 
cream;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Stir  lightly  together  and  scramble  in  butter. 


CREAJHED  SWEETBREADS 

Take  three  pairs  of  sweetbreads,  have  them  carefully 
washed  and  parboiled;  then  cut  them  into  dice,  removing 
every  particle  of  the  gristle  and  skin;  put  into  a  pan  one 
pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  large  egg. 

When  the  cream  begins  to  bubble  up  thicken  with  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thin  batter;  add 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper  and  pour  on  the  sweetbreads. 
Flavor  with  wine  to  faste  and  serve  hot. 


48  CHAFING  DISH 

MOCK  TERRAPDf 

One  pint  of  chopped  veal,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  hard 
boiled  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
one  dessert-spoonful  of  flour.  While  yolks  of  eggs  are  warm, 
rub  the  butter,  mustard  and  flour  into  them  until  very 
smooth.  Boil  milk  and  veal  together,  and  add  paste  to  this ; 
chop  whites  of  eggs  and  add  last. 


CHICKEIf  TERRAPIN 

One  large  chicken,  one  pint  of  cream  or  new  milk,  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  three 
eggs. 

Boil  the  chicken — cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  in  a 
pan  with  the  cream.  Mix  well  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil; 
mix  the  flour  and  butter  well  together  until  smooth  and  add 
to  the  rest;  season  with  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  boil  the 
eggs  hard  and  chop  the  whites  fine;  make  the  yolks  into 
little  balls;  add  wine  and  eggs  just  before  taking  off  the 
fire. 


DELICIOUS  CREAMED  EGGS 

Five  eggs,  boiled  for  thirty  minutes ;  one  pint  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  quarter 
pound  cheese,  one  cup  peas,  cooked  and  drained. 

Melt  the  butter;  then  add  the  cheese  cut  in  small 
pieces;  when  that  is  melted  add  the  flour,  and  then,  very 
slowly,  the  milk.  Cook  until  you  have  a  thick  smooth 
sauce;  then  add  the  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine;  add  the 
peas.    Season  with  salt  and  paprika  or  red  pepper. 


WELSH  RAREBIT 

One  pound  grated  cheese,  yolk  of  one  egg  beaten,  one- 
half  glass  of  ale  or  beer,  one  pinch  of  dry  mustard,  dash  of 
red  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  few 
drops  of  tabasco. 


CHAFING  DISH  49 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

Melt  three  pats  of  butter  in  chafing  dish;  when  thor- 
oughly melted  put  in  one  pound  of  American  cream  cheese, 
cut  in  small  pieces ;  add  about  one-third  of  a  pint  of  beer. 

Keep  stirring ;  put  in  about  a  teaspoonf ul  of  mixed  mus- 
tard; when  cheese  is  completely  melted,  add  two  beaten 
eggs;  mix  well  and  cook  for  a  moment  only;  add  salt  and 
essence  of  cayenne  to  taste.  Serve  on  toast  or  salt  crack- 
ers. 


Entrees 

'Wisdom  upholds  experience  rare, 
And  lingers  in   each   dainty  fare." 


ENTREES  51 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

One  pint  of  finely  chopped  chicken,  one  tablespoonful 
salt,  one-haif  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  cupful  of  cream  or 
chicken  broth,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  four  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  onion  juice,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Put  the  cream  or  broth  on  to  boil,  mix  flour  and  butter 
together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  cream,  then  add  the  chick- 
en and  seasoning;  boil  for  two  minutes,  add  two  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten.Ta  ke  from  the  fire  immediately  and  set  away  to 
cool.    When  cold  shape  and  fry. 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Boil  a  four  pound  chiken  until  tender.  When  cold  chop 
the  meat  very  fine.  Put  on  to  boil,  one  half  pint  of  milk,  one 
quarter  pound  of  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  chopped  par- 
sley, a  small  onion,  (chopped  fine)  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 

W^hen  these  ingredients  come  to  a  boil  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  made  smooth.  Boil  again,  then  pour  over 
the  minced  chicken.  Season  well  with  salt  and  red  pepper. 
When  cold  form  into  cones  and  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 


BAKED  CHEESE 

Six  ounces  of  cheese  grated,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one 
ounce  of  butter  and  a  large  teacupful  of  milk. 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven  in  a  baking  dish,  and  serve  hot. 


NICE  WAY  TO  HATE  EGOS 

Break  six  eggs  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  to  pour  over  them  a  tea 
cup  of  milk  scalded  and  thickened  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch,  and  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  sprinkle  bread 
crumbs  over  top. 

Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 


52  ENTREES 

EGGS  m  COCOTTES 

Butter  interior  of  a  cocotte  and  cover  the  bottom  with 
finely  chopped  challots  fried  in  butter.  Add  fresh  mush- 
rooms; after  these  have  evaporated  all  the  moisture,  add 
chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  truffles;  break 
the  egg  in  the  cocotte;  pour  boiling  hot  butter  over  it  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 


COLD   CHEESE   SOUFFLE   ENTREE 

Grate  two  ounces  each  of  gruyere  and  parmesan  cheese ; 
soak  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  half 
an  hour;  stir  it  over  hot  water  until  dissolved;  when  cold 
add  it  to  one  pint  of  whipped  cream  with  a  little  cayenne, 
salt  and  French  mustard  and  the  cheese;  fill  small  rame- 
quin  cases  with  the  mixture ;  grate  cheese  over  the  top  and 
set  on  ice  until  firm. 


SALTED  ALMONDS 

Over  one-half  pound  of  almonds  pour  boiling  water ;  put 
on  back  or  range  five  minutes ;  then  put  the  almonds  in  cold 
water  and  squeeze  them  out  of  their  skins.  Put  on  them  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Stir  well. 
Spread  them  in  a  baking  pan.    Brown  a  golden  brown. 


POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Boil  one  dozen  potatoes;  beat  until  smooth  and  light; 
work  in  while  hot  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  cup  of 
milk,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  in  a  sauce  pan  until 
smoking  hot,  then  beat  in  two  eggs  and  continue  to  beat 
until  you  have  a  smooth  mass  boiling  hot. 

Turn  out  on  a  dish  to  cool ;  flour  your  hands  and  make 
in  croquettes  of  cone  shape;  roll  in  cracker  dust  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 


ENTREES  53 

CHEESE  OMELET 

Take  one  pint  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  teacupfuls  of 
grated  cheese,  three  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
bread  crumbs  enough  to  thicken  the  milk. 

Put  the  milk  and  bread  crumbs  on  the  fire  and  when 
just  coming  to  a  boil  add  cheese  and  butter;  then  take  from 
fire  and  add  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  also  a  little  salt,  ca- 
yenne pepper  and  a  pinch  of  mustard;  then  add  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  to  stiff  froth  and  stir;  pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  brown.  Serve 
hot. 


SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES 

Parboil  two  pairs  sweetbreads;  pull  apart  and  chop 
fine;  chop  two  cans  mushrooms  very  fine  and  mix  with  the 
sweetbreads;  rub  together  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
two  of  flour,  and  add  to  it  one-half  pint  of  milk;  boil  and 
pour  over  the  sweetbreads ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  finely 
chopped  parsley  to  one  beaten  egg  and  mix  through  the 
sweetbreads. 

Season  to  taste  and  when  cool  mould;  dip  in  egg;  then 
in  cracker  dust  and  fry. 


SALMON  CROQUETTES 

Drain  the  salmon ;  put  half  a  pint  of  milk  over  the  fire ; 
rub  together  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour; 
add  to  the  milk  and  cook  until  thick.  Take  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  yolk  of  one  egg;  cook  for  just  a  moment  longer.  To 
the  salmon  add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  chopped  parsley, 
a  grating  of  nutmeg  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Mix  meat  and 
sauce ;  turn  out  to  cool. 

When  cold,  form  into  cylinders;  roll  in  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  smoking-hot  fat. 


Pies 

'It  'pears  like  I  smell  custard  pies.' 


— Riley 


PIES  55 

PLAIN  PIE  CRUST 

For  two  large  pies  use  about  one  pound  of  flour;  sift 
the  flour  and  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  butter  and  lard ;  cut  into  pieces  (use  more  lard  than  but- 
ter) ,  one  cupful  of  cold  water  stirred  in  with  a  knife  till  you 
have  a  soft  dough.  Take  out  on  a  well-floured  board;  roll 
out  thin ;  double  edges  in ;  flour  it ;  roll  out  again. 

The  last  couple  of  times  you  roll;  put  little  dabs  of 
butter  on  till  the  paste  rises  in  blisters.  Paste  kept  on  ice 
for  a  day  will  make  lighter  pie  crust. 


PUFF  PASTE 

One  pound  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, water;  put  flour  on  paste  board;  lay  butter  on  it  and 
roll  out  in  thin  sheets;  set  butter  aside  to  keep  cold;  then 
mix  flour  with  cold  water  to  a  soft  dough ;  roll  out  thin ;  lay 
butter  in  it  till  all  used ;  then  roll  dough  up  tight ;  beat  hard 
with  rolling  pin  to  drive  butter  into  it ;  fold  up  and  roll  out 
three  or  four  times ;  now  ready  for  use. 


CUSTARD  PIE 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  cream;  stir  thor- 
oughly a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour  into  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar;  this  separates  the  particles  of  flour  so  that 
there  will  be  no  lumps ;  then  add  it  to  the  beaten  yolks,  put 
in  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  a  pint  of  scalded  milk  (not  boiled)  which  has  been 
cooled;  mix  this  in  by  degrees  and  turn  all  into  a  deep  pie 
pan  lined  with  puff-paste,  and  bake  from  twenty-five  fo 
thirty  minutes. 

When  done,  have  ready  the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Spread  this  over  the  top 
and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 


56  PIES 

SWEET  OR  WHITE  POTATO  PIES 

One-half  pound  sugar,  quarter  poui>d  of  butter,  beaten 
to  a  cream;  one  pound  of  white  or  sweet  potatoes,  boiled 
and  mashed  fine;  beat  potato  by  degrees  into  butter  and 
sugar.  Add  three  eggs  beaten  light,  half  wine  glass  of 
sherry,  half  wine  glass  of  brandy,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice, 
quarter  pint  of  cream. 

This  quantity  will  make  three  pies. 


GEATED  APPLE  PIE 

Six  large  apples  grated,  one  cup  of  sugar,  grated  rind 
of  one  lemon,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  yolks  of  two 
eggs. 

Use  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  for  the  top.  This  makes 
one  large  pie. 


LEMOJf  PIE 

Four  lemons  grated,  remove  the  seeds;  four  eggs,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  tiny  pinch  of  salt;  line 
the  pie  tins  with  pie  crust;  spread  layer  of  filling;  put  an- 
other layer  of  crust  rolled  very  thin ;  then  another  layer  of 
filling;  finish  with  top  crust,  making  three  crusts. 

Bake  a  pretty  brown.  Serve  cold.  This  makes  three 
pies. 


COCOANUT  PIE 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  pre- 
pared cocoanut,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  mixed  with 
milk,  one  quart  sweet  milk.  Boil  the  milk  and  add  yolk 
beaten  with  the  sugar,  cocoanut  and  flour  mixed  with  the 
milk.   Make  the  same  as  any  custard. 

Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  little 
sugar.    This  quantity  will  make  two  pies. 


PIES  57 

RICH  OXSTEE  PEE 

For  crust:  Four  cups  flour,  one  cup  shortening,  half 
each  of  butter  and  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  sift  flour 
four  times,  and  chop  butter  and  lard  into  it  with  a  knife; 
add  ice  water  to  make  stiff  dough;  place  on  ice  for  two 
hours ;  then  roll.  Line  a  three  quart  pan  on  sides  only ;  turn 
a  cup  three  inches  in  diameter  upside  down  in  center;  then 
put  in  about  three  pints  of  oysters,  seasoned  with  pepper 
(and  salt  if  oysters  are  fresh) ;  add  generous  amount  of 
butter;  put  on  top  crust;  make  hole  in  center,  size  of  bot- 
tom of  cup;  stick  crust  with  a  fork;  cook  in  oven  until 
done;  allow  crust  to  brown,  and  before  serving  remove  the 
cup. 

In  making  dough  stir  with  spoon  and  handle  as  little 
as  possible. 


MBTCE  MEAT 

Two  pounds  beef,  two  pounds  suet,  four  pounds  apples, 
four  pounds  raisins,  four  pounds  currants,  half  pound  cit- 
ron, three  pounds  sugar,  half  ounce  cinnamon,  quarter 
ounce  of  mace,  quarter  ounce  cloves,  one  nutmeg  and  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  an  orange.  Brandy  and  wine  to 
taste. 


STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

One  quart  of  flour  (heaped) ,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter  ,two  eggs  beaten 
with  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk. 

Make  this  into  a  dough,  roll  out  and  divide  into  two 
pieces ;  put  one  layer  of  dough  on  top  of  the  other  and  bake 
in  a  large  dish ;  when  baked  separate  the  layers  by  running 
a  knife  between  them ;  put  strawberries  between  the  layers 
and  on  top;  sweeten  the  berries  but  do  not  crush  them. 
Serve  fresh  with  cream. 


Desserts 

'They  had  so  many  pud  din's,  sal  lid  s, 

Sandwidges  an'  pies, 
That  a  fellar  wisht  his  stummick  was 

As  hungry  as  his  eyes." 


DESSERTS  59 

SOUTH   CAROLINA   PLUM   PUDDING 

One  loaf  stale  bread  grated,  one  pint  milk  scalded; 
when  hot  put  in  one  large  tablespoonful  butter;  then  pour 
over  grated  bread,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  eight  eggs  beaten 
light,  one  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound 
of  washed  currants,  one-quarter  pound  of  citron. 

Put  in  a  bag  well  buttered  and  sprinkled  with  flour; 
have  the  water  boiling  and  boil  one  hour;  to  be  eaten  hot 
with  any  good  sauce. 


FRUIT  SUET  PUDDING 

One  cup  of  chopped  suet  mixed  well  in  three  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter- 
milk, one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy, 
and  last  of  all  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water. 

Boil  steadily  three  hours  in  a  bag.  Serve  with  wine 
sauce. 


PEACH  PUDDING 

Take  a  pudding  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs 
in  the  bottom;  then  a  layer  of  peaches,  either  canned  or 
fresh  fruit;  then  another  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  an- 
other of  peaches;  do  this  until  you  have  the  quantity  de- 
sired; then  make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch;  sweeten  to 
taste. 

After  cooked,  pour  over  the  bread  crumbs  and  peaches 
and  take  whites  and  beat  them  stiff;  spread  over  top  and 
brown  slightly;  flavor  with  bitter  almonds. 


60  DESSERTS 

APPLE  PUDDING 

One  dozen  apples,  peel  and  quarter  them;  two  cups  of 
pulverized  sugar;  season  to  suit  with  spice — use  no  water. 
For  the  paste: — One  pound  of  flour,  one  heaping  dessert- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  butter,  rub  in  dry; 
three  eggs. 

Mix  with  cold  milk ;  roll  out  and  place  over  the  apples ; 
cover  the  sauce  pan  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
with  wine  or  hard  sauce. 


QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  chocolate  to  taste. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
spread  on  top  after  pudding  is  done,  and  put  in  oven  to 
brown. 


SNOW  PUDDING 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  stiff  froth;  dissolve 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk  or 
water,  and  add  to  one  pint  boiling  milk ;  cook  the  cornstarch 
thoroughly ;  add  the  whites  of  eggs  very  gently. 

Sauce: — The  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  and  a  half  cups  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  butter  and 
a  little  salt.   Cook  until  it  thickens. 


RAISIN  PUFFS 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  seeded 
raisins  chopped  fine  and  dredged  with  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour;  steam  one-half 
hour  in  buttered  cups.  This  mixture  will  make  seven  cups. 
Serve  either  with  cream  or  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce: — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  but- 
ter, one  egg  beaten  light,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  cup 
of  boiling  water ;  thicken  over  steam. 


DESSERTS  61 

BAKED  APPLES  STUFFED  WITH  FIGS 

Core  large  firm  apples  and  place  in  a  baking  dish; 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  water  and  sprinkle  lavishly 
with  sugar ;  fill  the  spaces  from  which  the  cores  were  taken 
with  figs  chopped  fine  and  moistened  with  a  little  lemon 
juice. 

Bake  until  tender;  basting  well  with  the  sugar  and 
water.    Serve  very  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


BEOWN  BETTY 

Pare  and  cut  apples  in  small  pieces ;  spread  a  layer  in  a 
dish ;  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs ;  drop  on  small  pieces 
of  butter  and  sift  with  cinnamon  and  sugar ;  repeat  this  un- 
til dish  is  filled.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce: — Three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch;  smooth 
with  cold  water;  pour  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over 
this,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  boil  a 
little  and  flavor. 


HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Put  half  a  cupful  each  of  sugar  and  water  into  a  sauce- 
pan; let  boil  five  minutes;  then  stir  in  slowly  four  ounces 
of  Baker's  chocolate  melted;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla. 

Let  stand  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  ready  to  serve; 
then  add  half  a  cupful  of  cream  or  milk. 


To  make  a  beautiful  dessert,  fill  tall  slender  glasses  half 
full  of  raspberry  ice  and  pile  sweetened  whipped  cream  on 
top. 


ITALIAN  CREAM 

One  quart  of  rich  cream  whipped,  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  light,  one-half  box  of  gelatine,  one  cup  of  sugar; 
flavor  to  taste;  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  one-half  teacup  of 
milk;  stir  it  into  the  sugar  and  add  to  it  the  cream  which 
is  left  from  whipping  the  cream;  then  stir  in  the  whites, 
and  lastly  the  cream ;  put  in  a  mold  on  the  ice. 


62  DESSERTS 

BATARIA:Pf  CEEABI 

Whip  one  pint  of  cream  to  stiff  froth,  laying  it  on  a 
sieve;  boil  another  pint  of  cream  or  rich  milk  with  vanilla 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  until  it  is  well  flavored; 
then  take  off  fire  and  add  one-half  box  of  gelatine  soaked 
for  an  hour  in  one-half  cup  of  water;  when  slightly  cooled 
stir  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten. 

When  it  has  become  quite  cool  and  begins  to  thicken, 
stir  it  without  ceasing  a  few  minutes  until  it  is  very  smooth, 
then  stir  in  the  whipped  cream  lightly  until  it  is  well  mix- 
ed; put  in  molds  and  place  on  ice. 


CREOLE  CREAM 

Beat  yolks  of  six  eggs  with  one-half  teacupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar;  add  a  pint  of  rich  milk;  set  over  the  fire  and 
stir  until  very  hot,  but  not  boiling;  take  off  and  let  cool. 
Cut  up  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron ;  ornament  sides  of 
a  mould  with  candied  strawberries  and  leaves  cut  from  thin 
sheets  of  lemon  jelly;  stir  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  gel- 
atine into  a  pint  of  whipped  cream ;  add  to  the  custard  with 
the  chopped  citron ;  pour  into  the  mould  and  set  on  ice. 


SPAMSH  CREAM 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one-half  box  of  gelatine. 
Pour  half  the  milk  on  the  gelatine  and  let  it  stand  an  hour ; 
add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  let  it  boil  together;  separate 
the  eggs,  adding  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  beat- 
en yolks  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  beaten 
whites;  when  the  milk  and  gelatine  have  boiled  add  the 
yolks. 

When  this  is  thick  and  smooth,  take  it  off  the  fire  and 
let  it  get  cool  before  adding  the  beaten  whites ;  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  pour  into  molds;  always  wet  the  molds  in  cold 
water  first. 


DESSERTS  63 

RICE  CHARLOTTE 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  boiled  in  double  boiler  with 
one  quart  of  milk ;  after  taking  from  fire,  add  whites  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  pour  in  a 
mold  lined  with  lady  fingers. 


CHOCOLATE  BLANC-IHAIfGE 

One  and  a  half  ounces  of  gelatine  in  one-half  pint  of 
cold  water  four  hours ;  warm  one  quart  of  milk ;  stir  in  gel- 
atine one-half  pound  of  sugar;  let  it  get  hot;  when  melted 
strain  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate; 
stir  continually  and  boil  ten  minutes. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

One  pint  of  thick  rich  cream ;  pour  the  cream  in  a  large 
meat  dish  and  whip  with  a  flat  egg  whip.  This  makes  the 
whipped  cream  close  and  creamy.  It  must  be  stiff  enough 
to  stand;  beat  in  enough  pulverized  sugar  to  taste;  flavor 
with  sherry.  Line  sherbet  glasses  with  lady  fingers;  pile 
the  whipped  cream  in  them  with  two  or  three  maraschino 
cherries  on  top. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Five  eggs,  one-half  box  of  gelatine,  one-half  pound  of 
sugar,  one  quart  of  cream;  beat  the  eggs  separately  very 
light ;  put  gelatine  to  dissolve  with  enough  warm  water  to 
cover  it ;  set  it  on  back  of  stove  where  it  will  keep  warm ; 
whip  the  cream  to  stiff  froth ;  stir  yolks  and  sugar  together ; 
add  the  beaten  whites,  then  the  cream  hghtly;  last  of  all 
the  gelatine;  mix  all  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  dish  lincU 
with  cake.  Put  whatever  flavor  you  wish  into  the  yolks 
and  sugar. 

It  is  well  to  mix  part  of  your  sugar  in  the  cream  before 
you  whip  it.     It  will  congeal  very  soon. 


64  DESSERTS 

APPLE  FLOAT  CUSTARD 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste, 
flavor  with  vanilla;  let  come  to  a  boil. 

Float: — Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  good  sized  apples 
grated,  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  beaten  until  very  light 
and  stiff. 


APPLE  CREAM  FILLING 

One  large  sour  apple  grated,  whites  of  two  eggs,  two 
cups  granulated  sugar;  put  all  in  a  bowl  and  beat  until 
very  light. 


BUTTER  AWD  SUGAR  FROSTING 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  boil  ten  minutes;  flavor  and  stir 
until  cool  enough  to  spread  on  cake.  This  will  make  three 
layers. 


COFFEE  CUSTARD 

Two  cups  of  milk,  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  ground  coffee,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  little  salt, 
one-quarter  teaspoonful  vanilla;  scald  milk  with  the  coffee 
and  strain;  beat  eggs  slightly;  add  sugar,  salt,  vanilla  and 
milk;  strain  into  custard  cups;  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  until  firm. 


CAKE  AND  CUSTARD  DESSERT 

Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  new  milk  and  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg;  let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil 
and  then  stir  in  the  eggs  and  sugar;  as  soon  as  it  begins 
to  thicken  take  off  the  fire.  After  it  cools,  flavor  with  va- 
nilla ;  dip  one-half  pound  of  stale  lady  fingers  in  sherry  wine 
and  put  in  the  custard  just  before  using;  then  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  allowing  one  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  sugar  to  each  egg ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  put  the  whites 
on  top  of  the  custard  and  drop  jelly  in  spots  over  it. 


DESSERTS  65 

TAPIOCA  CUSTAED 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
and  a  little  vanilla,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca;  soak 
tapioca  over  night;  let  milk  come  to  a  boil;  put  tapioca  in 
and  cook;  heat  yolks  and  sugar  together;  add  to  milk,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes;  turn  into  a  dish;  beat  whites;  add  a 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  them;  drop  on  custard  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 


MOOIfSHmE  PUDDOG,  OK  PUDDING  THAT  NETER  FAILS 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold 
water;  let  come  to  a  boil  one  pint  of  water;  add  to  it  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  cornstarch; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  to  it  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs ;  slice  three  bananas  and  put  layer  of  pudding  and  ban- 
anas alternately  to  top  of  pudding  dish.  Serve  with  follow- 
ing sauce : 

Sauce: — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar,  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  few  drops  of  rose  water.    Boil  until  thick  as  cream. 


PEACH  PUFFS 

One  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
melted  lard,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pint  of  milk,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  six  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  flour  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking '  powder ;  fill  gem 
pans  half  full  of  batter;  add  one-half  peach  covered  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Bake  quickly;  serve  hot  with  boiled  custard;  flavor 
with  vanilla  or  brandy. 


66  DESSERTS 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Peel  and  boil  eight  large  white  potatoes  till  tender; 
mash  until  free  from  lumps;  add  one-quarter  pound  butter 
and  teaspoonful  of  salt;  beat  briskly  until  very  light;  then 
sieve  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to 
roll  out. 

Divide  dough  into  ten  parts  and  roll  thin;  set  in  cen- 
ter of  each  an  epple,  peeled  and  cored,  and  a  dash  of  grated 
nutmeg;  place  each  in  a  dumpling  cloth  and  drop  into  well 
filled  pot  of  hot  water ;  boil  one  hour  and  serve  with  cream 
and  sugar,  or  brandy  sauce. 


BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Pastry: — One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  lard.    This  quantity  will  make  ten  dumplings. 

Sauce: — One  and  a  half  pints  of  water,  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter. 

Put  sauce  in  biscuit  pan;  add  the  dumplings  and  bake 
in  quick  oven.  Baste  the  dumplings  with  the  sauce  every 
few  minutes  till  done.  When  done  remove  dumplings  from 
pan  and  flavor  sauce  with  vanilla  or  brandy. 


Ice  Cream— Ices 


''The  Deacon  not  being  in  the  habit  of  taking  his 
nourishment  in  the  congealed  state,  had  treated  the  ice- 
cream as  a  pudding  of  a  rare  species." 

— Holmes 


68  ICE    CREAM— ICES 

CHOCOLATE  ICE   CREAM 

Three-quarters  of  a  cake  of  chocolate  grated  and  boil- 
ed until  thickened  in  one  pint  of  rich  milk.  Take  off  the 
fire;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  set  aside  until  the  next 
day;  make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  and  a 
half  pint  of  new  milk  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  box  of  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  stir  in  as 
soon  as  removed  from  the  fire. 

Mix  the  chocolate  with  a  pint  of  rich  cream  and  a 
heaping  cup  of  sugar;  add  the  custard;  strain  all  through  a 
rather  coarse  strainer  and  freeze. 


PEACH  ICE  CREAM 

To  a  quart  of  mashed  and  strained  peaches  add  six 
ounces  of  granulated  siigar;  while  the  sugar  is  dissolving 
put  into  the  freezer  a  quart  of  cream  and  milk  mixed  with 
six  ounces  of  the  sugar  and  start  to  freeze ;  then  add  to  it 
the  prepared  peaches  and  finish  freezing  altogether. 

Cherries,  pineapple  and  other  fruit  may  be  treated  in 
the  same  manner,  except  do  not  mash  and  strain. 


CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  small  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  two  eggs,  one  quart  of  cream.  Let 
milk  come  to  a  boil;  add  the  sugar,  eggs  and  cornstarch 
mixed  together  and  cool  twenty  minutes. 

Take  a  small  cup  of  sugar  in  a  frying  pan  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  burns  a  little,  then  turn  into  the  mixture 
and  set  away  to  cool;  when  cold  add  the  cream  and  freeze. 


FAIRY  ICE  CREAM 

Whip  a  quart  of  cream  sweetened,  and  flavor  to  taste; 
pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  for  three  hours. 


ICE    CREAM— ICES  69 

APRICOT  ICE  CEEAM 

One  quart  of  apricots,  three  quarts  of  milk,  one  quart 
of  cream,  one  pound  of  sugar;  mash  the  fruit  (or  run  it 
through  a  meat  chopper) ;  add  cream,  milk  and  sugar  with 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  and  freeze. 


ORANGE  WATER  ICE 

Six  oranges,  two  lemons,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  one  gallon  of  water; 
squeeze  oranges,  and  lemons ;  scald  the  grated  rinds ;  heat 
the  water  hot  enough  to  cook  cornstarch  and  melt  the  sugar. 

When  cool  mix  with  juice  and  water  of  grated  rinds 
and  freeze. 


FROZEIf  BRAIfDY  PEACHES 

One  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  two  eggs  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  one  quart  of  cream,  three  pints  of 
soft  peaches  mashed  through  a  colander. 

Make  very  sweet  as  sugar  freezes  out.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla and  apple  brandy. 


MILK  SHERBET 

Four  cups  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  juice 
of  three  lemons,  juice  of  one  orange. 

Mix  juice  of  fruit  and  sugar  together  until  half  melted, 
then  pour  in  the  milk  slowly.  Put  white  of  one  egg  in  when 
almost  frozen. 


FROZEN  SHERBET 

One-half  can  of  apricots,  three  bananas,  three  cups  of 
water,  three  oranges,  three  cups  of  sugar,  three  lemons. 

Rub  apricots  and  bananas  through  strainer;  pour  the 
water  in  gradually  to  help  pulp  go  through ;  squeeze  oranges 
and  lemons  into  the  fruit ;  add  sugar.  Freeze  as  usual.  One 
pint  of  cream  may  be  mixed  with  the  fruit. 


PEACH  SHERBET 

Mash  one  quart  of  peaches  through  a  colander,  one  cup 
of  water;  sugar  well  as  it  freezes  out.  Brandy  and  sherry 
to  taste. 


70  ICE   CREAM— ICES 

FBOZEIf  PEACHES 

For  a  six  quart  freezer,  take  two  quarts  of  peaches, 
press  through  a  colander  and  add  three  pounds  of  sugar, 
two  quarts  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream. 

Take  an  extra  quart  of  milk,  put  in  a  double  boiler  with 
two  eggs  and  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  cup 
of  sugar.  Just  before  it  is  ready  to  pack,  after  freezing, 
add  six  tablespoonf  uls  of  apple  brandy ;  pack  and  let  harden. 


PUnEAPPLE  CREAM 

To  one  quart  of  grated  pineapple  add  two  quarts  of 
sweet  cream  and  one  quart  of  new  milk;  add  sugar  until 
you  think  it  is  sweet  enough ;  then  freeze.  Any  other  fruit 
may  be  used. 


FROZEN  CHERRY  CUSTARD 

Boil  two  quarts  of  milk  and  two  cups  of  sugar  together ; 
beat  six  eggs  light ;  dissolve  five  small  teaspoonf uls  of  corn- 
starch in  a  little  milk  and  stir,  it  together  with  the  eggs  into 
the  boiling  milk;  boil  twenty  minutes;  remove  from  stove 
and  set  aside  to  cool. 

When  cold  add  one  quart  of  milk  and  one  quart  of 
sweet  cream.  When  this  is  half  frozen  add  one  quart  of 
cherries  without  the  juice.  If  peaches  are  preferred  use 
three  quarts  of  the  fruit. 


FROZEN  CUSTARD 

Three  pints  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  cream,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  cornstarch. 

Boil  the  milk  and  cornstarch;  add  the  yolks  of  eggs 
and  sugar  beaten  very  light,  then  the  beaten  whites ;  when 
cold  add  cream ;  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 


PIIfEAPPLE  ICE 

One  quart  of  water,  one  quart  can  of  fruit  or  one  large 
pineapple  grated  and  strained  through  a  fine  sieve,  one  and 
a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar,  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten 
very  light. 

Peach  or  apricot  can  be  made  the  same  way. 


Cakes 

^^Siveet  cakes  and  short  cakes,  ginger  cakes  and 

honey  cakes  and  the  whole  family  of  cakes." 

— Irving 


72  CAKES 

MARBLE  CAKE 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of 
white  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one- 
half  teaspoonf ul  of  cream  of  tartar,  whites  of  four  eggs  and 
juice  of  one  lemon. 

Dark  Part: — One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of 
brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  of 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar,  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  whole  egg. 


SUPERIOR  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful 
of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one-half  cake  of  choco- 
late melted,  five  eggs  and  three  cupfuh  of  flour,  three 
teaspoonf uls  of  yeast  powder. 

Icing: — One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  water  to  wet 
it;  beat  slightly  whites  of  three  eggs;  add  sugar  and  then 
the  melted  half  cake  of  chocolate.  Boil  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly ;  as  it  cools  add  a  grated  cocoanut.  Flav- 
or with  vanilla. 


COFFEE   CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, one  cupful  of  butter,  one-half  cupful  of  lard,  four 
eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  two  for  icing;  one  cup  of  cold 
strong  coffee,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  nutmeg  grated, 
two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Royal  baking  powder.  Mix  as  any  other  cake, 
about  five  cups  of  flour:  it  must  be  of  the  consistency  of 
fruit  cake.     Bake  one  hour. 


CAKES  73 

CEEAM  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Cream  one-half  pound  of  butter,  and  add  slowly  one 
pound  of  granulated  sugar,  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  beaten 
light,  and  one  cupful  of  cream ;  to  this  add  three  cupf uls  of 
flour,  into  which  has  been  sifted  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.    Flavor  with  bitter  almond,  and  bake  in  layers. 

Filling: — (Cream)  one  pound  soft  white  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  cream;  flavor  with  vanilla  (chocolate),  one  pound 
granulated  sugar,  one-half  cupful  cream,  one-quarter  cake 
of  Baker's  chocolate.  Let  the  cream  filling  boil  before  put- 
ting the  chocolate  filling  on  the  stove.  Boil  each  until  a 
ball  can  be  formed  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Beat 
until  light,  and  it  begins  to  thicken ;  spread  cream  filling  on 
layers,  then  as  you  put  the  chocolate  filling  on  these  put  the 
cake  together. 


EIBBOIf  CAKE 

Five  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cupf  uls  of  sugar,  three  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar.  Bake  three  layers  of  white  batter,  take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chocolate,  wet  it  with  milk  and  sweeten  to 
taste,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  cool,  then  put  in  the  batter, 
which  will  be  two  layers,  and  bake.  Put  the  white  at  the 
bottom,  then  the  dark,  put  icing  between  the  layers. 


FKUIT  CAKE 

Cream  one  pound  of  butter,  and  add  slowly  one  pound 
of  granulated  sugar.  To  this  add  ten  well  beaten  eggs; 
stir  in  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  one 
small  grated  nutmeg;  add  one-half  cupful  of  molasses  and 
one  cupful  of  brandy  and  wine  mixed;  then  add  three  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  flour  sifted  three  times,  two  pounds  of 
currants,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  citron  (or 
one-half  pound  of  citron  and  one-half  pound  of  orange  peel) . 
To  this  add  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  warm  water.  Bake  for  four  hours  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 


74  CAKES 

YELVET  CAKE 

Cream  four  tablespoonf uls  of  butter,  to  which  add  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar.  To  this  add  the 
well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one-half  cupful  of  cold 
water ;  add  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  sifted  three  times,  two  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Beat  all  together  and  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Flavor  with  almond.  Bake  in  a  loaf  in  moderate 
oven  for  twenty-five  minutes.  Cover  with  a  filling  made 
by  boiling  two  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  and  three-quarters 
cupful  of  cream,  until  it  can  be  formed  into  a  ball  when 
put  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  and  beat  until  it  be- 
gins to  stiffen,  when  it  is  ready  to  be  spread  on  the  cake. 


MINNEHAHA  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder.  Beat  sugar  and  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  part  of  the  milk,  then  flour,  sifted  alternate- 
ly into  the  batter  with  whites  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth, 
and  fold  in  gradually.  Add  lastly  the  baking  powder  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  almond  extract;  pour  into  greased 
tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  min- 
utes. 

Filling: — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of 
water,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts, 
one-half  pound  of  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  figs,  flavor 
with  almond.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  forms 
a  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  pour  boiling  syrup  over  the  whites ;  beat  until  thick 
and  creamy ;  add  the  fruit  to  this  mixture.  When  cakes  are 
cold  spread  a  layer  of  the  filling  on  top  of  one  cake;  place 
another  cake  on  top  of  it  and  continue  until  all  are  used.  The 
cake  is  then  ready  to  be  served. 


DEVIL  CAKE 

Part  I. — One  cupful  of  sugar,  three-quarters  cupful  of 
chocolate,  one-half  cupful  of  milk. 

Part  11. — One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful 
of  butter,  three  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolve  well 
in  milk,  and  mix  with  part  one. 


CAKES  75 

DELICATE  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  six  eggs.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  together ;  add  the  milk  and  flour  and  beat  well.  Last 
add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  stir  each  one  in  thoroughly. 
This  makes  one  large  cake. 


SPICE  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon, two  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  one  small  nutmeg  grated, 
one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved. 


SPICE  CAKE 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter, 
yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  cream,  one  wine  glass  of  brandy,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls of  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  three  cupfuls  of  flour; 
flavor  with  vanilla.  The  icing  made  by  adding  one  pound  of 
confectioner's  sugar  to  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  beaten 
light. 


COFFEE  CAKE 

Three  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  cupfuls  of  molasses,  two 
cupfuls  of  butter,  eight  eggs  (whites  of  two  for  icing) ,  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  ten  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  nut- 
meg, one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  tablespoonful 
of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  two  pounds  of 
raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one-half  pound  of  citron, 
two  large  cupfuls  of  strong  coffee.  Put  fruit  in  last  well 
floured. 


76  CAKES 

IVHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

One-half  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupfuls  of  pulverized 
sugar  creamed  together ;  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  milk, 
two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour,  alternately  with 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  One  cupful  of  crystallized  fruit, 
cut  fine,  and  one-half  cupful  of  chopped  almonds  are  put  in 
last.  Bake  in  a  tube  pan,  slowly,  for  an  hour.  Frost  top  and 
sides  with  a  delicately  colored  icing.  The  cakes  should  rise 
high  in  the  pan  before  beginning  to  brown. 


ICING  FOK  POUIfD  CAKE 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and 
half  a  pint  of  water,  stir  continually  over  the  fire  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  without  stirring  until  the  syrup 
spins  a  heavy  thread  from  a  spoon  dipped  in  it.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth ;  add  the  syrup  to 
them  gradually,  beating  rapidly  all  the  while;  then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  beat  until 
cold  and  thick ;  flavor  to  taste. 


ANGEL'S  FOOD 

One  and  one-half  tumblers'  of  granulated  sugar,  one 
tumbler  of  flour,  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Directions  For  Mixing: — The  tumbler  must  hold  exact- 
ly two  and  one-fourth  gills,  and  it  is  better  to  mix  it  to- 
gether on  a  large  meat  dish.  Sift  the  flour  four  times,  then 
measure  and  add  the  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  the  sugar  once 
and  then  measure.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth, 
then  the  sugar  lightly,  and  then  as  lightly  as  possible  the 
flour  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  then  the  vanilla.  The  pan  in 
which  it  is  to  be  baked  must  not  be  greased.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  forty  minutes.  If  a  little  soft  when  trying  with 
a  straw  leave  it  in  a  little  longer.  When  it  is  done  turn  the 
pan  with  the  cake  in  it  upside  down  to  cool;  by  placing 
something  under  the  edges  of  the  pan  to  keep  it  from  touch- 
ing the  table.  If  the  cake  is  not  good  it  will  fall  out  of  the 
pan. 


CAKES  11 

LILY  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  whites  of 
six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  bitter  almonds. 

Icing: — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  scant 
one-quarter  pint  of  boiling  water;  boil  sugar  in  water  until 
clear,  pour  gradually  over  the  beaten  whites,  beat  thirty 
minutes ;  stir  in  one  pint  of  nuts  chopped  (shellbarks,  Eng- 
lish walnuts  and  almonds). 


COCOAIfUT  MACAROONS 

Mix  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cup- 
fuls of  desiccated  cocoanut;  beat  very  light  whites  of  three 
eggs;  fold  into  the  mixture;  make  out  in  thin  small  cakes 
and  bake. 


FIYE  O'CLOCK  TEAS 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one- 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  warm  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  one  pound  English  walnuts 
(chopped),  one  pound  raisins  seeded,  cut  into  pieces  and 
floured.  Drop  in  small  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin  and 
bake. 


WHEAT  COOKIES 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  three  eggs, 
one-half  pound  of  butter.  Drop  from  teaspoon  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven.  Flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla. 


CHOCOLATE  WAFERS 

Two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  four  ounces  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  ounce  of  flour,  whites  of  two  eggs,  pinch  of 
cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  mix  chocolate, 
sugar  and  flour  together  well,  add  cinnamon  and  vanilla, 
then  stir  in  lightly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Drop 
from  teaspoon  upon  well  buttered  tins. 


78  CAKES 

DOUGHNUTS 

One  pint  of  buttermilk,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  rolled 
free  from  lumps,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  nutmeg, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  one-quarter  cupful  of 
lukewarm  water;  stir  in  flour  until  a  thin  batter,  then  add 
three  tablespoonf uls  of  melted  lard ;  mix  in  flour  until  hard 
enough  to  roll  out.  Have  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. 
Fry  in  hot  lard. 


DOUGHNUTS 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk,  melt  in  it  one-half  pound  of  but- 
ter ;  beat  three  eggs,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  pour  on  them  the 
boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time ;  stir  in  a  cupful  of  yeast, 
spoonful  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  when 
light  knead  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  let  rise 
till  light,  roll  thin,  cut  and  boil  in  hot  lard.  Dust  with  cin- 
namon and  sugar. 


DOUGHNUTS 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  as  much  flour  as 
you  need. 


ICE  CREAM  CAKE 

White  of  five  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  scant  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  very  light,  add  milk  and  flour  alternately, 
beat  thoroughly,  lastly;  stir  in  lightly  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  very  stiff,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Do  not  beat 
after  the  eggs  are  in.  Bake  in  layers.  Finish  with  boiled 
icing. 


SNOW  BALL  CAKE 

White  of  five  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
milk,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  flour  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Beat  whites  until  stiff ; 
cream  butter  and  sugar  well,  then  add  whites,  next  your 
flour,  and  last  milk;  sift  sugar  once  and  flour  twice;  flavor 
with  vanilla. 


CAKES  79 

OSA]!fGE  CAKE 

Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  milk,  four  cupfuls  of  flour  (rather  less),  two 
teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Icing; — Two  oranges,  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  white 
of  one  eg^.  Boil  ten  minutes. 


CHOCOLATE  MIT  CAKE 

Light  Part: — Beat  together  until  very  light  one  cupful 
of  sugar  and  one-quarter  cupful  of  butter;  add  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  Rumford  yeast  powder  sifted  with  one  and 
one-quarter  cupfuls  of  flour,  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
four  eggs.    Bake  in  two  layers. 

Dark  Part: — One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  three  ounces  of 
butter  and  yolk  of  four  eggs  beaten  together ;  add  one  ounce 
grated  chocolate;  one-quarter  cupful  of  milk,  one  rounded 
teaspoonful  of  Rumford  yeast  powder  and  one  cupful  of 
flour.    Mix  well  and  bake  in  one  layer. 

Make  filling  as  follows :  Four  ounces  of  chocolate  melt- 
ed ;  add  one-half  cupful  of  cream,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  but- 
ter and  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  boil  until  it  forms  a  very  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  ice  water;  then  add  one  cupful  finely 
chopped  nuts.  Spread  this  very  thick  between  the  layers. 
Ice  with  plain  chocolate  icing  and  decorate  with  unbroken 
halves  of  English  Walnuts. 


DALNTY  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour ;  flavor.  Two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder;  sift  sugar  once,  sift  flour  four- times. 
Very  good. 


SPONGE  CAKE 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  sifted 
flour,  one  lemon,  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar  and  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  lemon  together  with  wooden  spoon  until  light 
and  creamy;  then  stir  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
Beat  all  together  ten  minutes,  take  out  spoon  or  Qgg  beater, 
stir  in  the  flour  with  silver  knife ;  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  until  done;  when  baked  turn  out  of  pans  and  put  on 
bottom  of  pan  cake  was  baked  in  until  cold. 


80  CAKES 

SPOIfGE  LATER  CAKE 

Four  well  beaten  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  cup- 
fuls  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flavor; 
two-thirds  cupful  of  boiling  water  added  last. 

Custard: — Yolks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs,  pint  of  milk, 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  one-half  cupful  of  granu- 
lated sugar;  flavor  with  orange  and  lemon  mixed. 


CmJfAMOIf  CAKE 

Take  one  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  cream 
them  and  add  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupfuls  of 
flour,  pinch  of  salt  and  nutmeg;  give  it  a  vigorous  beating, 
then  add  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  baking 
powder.  When  it  is  done  spread  on  the  top  cinnamon,  but- 
ter and  sugar  melted  together. 


DESSERT  CAKE 

One-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one-quarter  pound  of 
sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  one-quarter  pound  rice  (ground), 
one-half  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  beat  well,  add  three 
eggs  to  mixture.  Butter  small  tins;  bake  in  quick  oven  ten 
or  twelve  minutes. 


GENTLEMEJf'S  FAVORITE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter  beaten 
to  a  cream,  seven  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  water,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
baking  powder ;  bake  in  layers. 

Filling: — One  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  grated  ap- 
ples, one  lemon.  Cook  until  it  becomes  thick.  Let  it  cool 
before  putting  on  the  cakes. 


ROLL  JELLY  CAKE 

Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sifted 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar,  a  little  salt ;  this  will  make  two  cakes ;  spread  thin 
on  long  tins  and  bake;  then  spread  with  jelly  and  roll. 


CAKES  81 

TUTTI  FEUTTI  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  whites  of  five  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Divide  in  four  parts:  to  one 
part  add  one-half  cupful  of  cocoanut,  to  the  second  part 
one-half  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  to  the  third  one-half  cup- 
ful of  citron  and  to  the  fourth  one-half  cupful  of  walnuts; 
or  to  the  whole  add  two  cupfuls  of  cocoanut. 


LADY  CAKE 

A  pound  each  of  butter  and  pulverized  sugar  creamed 
together  until  very  light;  a  pint  of  well  beaten  whites  of 
eggs;  a  tablespoonful  each  of  French  brandy  and  the  ex- 
tract of  bitter  almonds;  a  pound  and  two  ounces  of  flour, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 


FREIfCH  CAKE 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  one-half  of  the 
batter  in  two  layers.  Mix  the  other  half  with  two  ounces  of 
grated  chocolate  and  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  the  dark  part 
in  two  layers;  have  alternate  layers  dark  and  light  with 
cocoanut  icing  between  them. 

Icing: — Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs;  boil 
sugar  in  one-half  cupful  of  water,  pour  over  beaten  whites, 
beat  well,  and  when  cold  add  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cocoanut. 


DOTER  CAKE 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  flour  with  a  couple  large  tablespoonfuls  taken  out, 
one  large  cupful  of  milk,  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder.  First  cream  butter  and  sugar  together  thor- 
oughly ;  add  the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  milk.  The  flour  with 
the  bakine  powder  must  be  sifted  two  or  three  times  be- 
fore stirring  into  batter,  alternately  with  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


82  CAKES 

MOLASSES  CAKE 

One-half  cupful  molasses,  one-half  cupful  of  sour 
cream,  one-half  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water  added  to  the  molasses,  two  cupfuls  of  flour, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  the  same  of  ginger,  one 
nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  allspice. 


SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cup- 
ful of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream  or  buttermilk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  soda,  three 
eggs,  ground  spices  to  taste ;  one  quart  sifted  flour.  Bake  in 
a  common  baking  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CRT  BABIES 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  cupful  of 
Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon, one  whole  nutmeg  grated,  a  pinch  of  salt;  pour  one 
small  cupful  of  boiling  water  over  one  tablespoonful  of 
bread  soda.  Mix  it  well ;  five  scanty  cupfuls  of  flour.  Drop 
on  greased  pans. 


GINGER  SNAPS 

Boil  together  one  pint  of  molasses  and  one  teacupful 
of  butter,  let  stand  until  cool;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  ginger,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  scant, 
and  just  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  for  rolling;  roll  very- 
thin  and  bake  quickly. 


GINGER  CAKES 

One  cupful  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  three-quarter  cupful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  tablespoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water, 
one  quart  of  flour:  bake  in  hot  oven. 


I  CAKES  83 

"GINGER  NUTS" 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of 
molasses,  two  ounces  of  ground  cloves  and  allspice  mixed, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
milk  or  water;  enough  flour  to  form  a  dough.  Roll  thin, 
cut  out  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


WINE  SNAPS 

One-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one-half  pound  of  sugar, 
one-half  pound  flour,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  mix  with 
one  Qgg)  roll  thin,  cut  into  shapes,  bake  in  greased  pans  in 
not  too  hot  an  oven. 


JUMBLES 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  cream- 
ed together,  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  flour; 
flavor  with  lemon.  This  makes  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  with  a 
teaspoon  on  a  greased  pan,  far  apart,  giving  room  to  spread. 


Candies 


^In  a  little  lump  of  sugar,  how  much  of  sweetness  lies. 


CANDIES  85 

CKEAM  COCOANUT  CANDY 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  one  package  of  prepared  cocoanut,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Boil  the  sugar,  butter  and  milk  together 
ten  minutes;  take  from  the  fire;  add  cocoanut  and  vanilla. 
Beat  five  minutes,  then  pour  into  buttered  tins  to  harden; 
cut  in  squares  when  it  begins  to  harden. 


BROWN  SUGAR  CANDY 

Two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  con- 
densed cream,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Put  the  sugar  and 
cream  into  a  saucepan  and  stir  until  dissolved.  When  the 
mixture  comes  to  a  boil  add  the  butter.  Boil  without  stir- 
ring until  a  little  dropped  in  water  forms  a  soft  ball.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  beat  until  thick. 


CREAM  PEPPERMINTS 

Three  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  to  one  cupful  of 
water.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  boil  without  stirring  for 
seven  minutes.  Take  off  and  add  eleven  drops  of  oil  of  pep- 
permint. Then  beat  until  it  looks  cloudy  and  drop  on  oiled 
paper  or  marble. 


CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  milk,  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  one  quar- 
ter cake  of  chocolate.  Let  it  boil  slowly  till  thick,  then  give 
it  a  hard  beating ;  pour  into  greased  tins,  and  when  cool  cut 
into  inch  squares. 


CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  seven  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  put  on  the  stove  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  one-third  of  a  cake  of  chocolate 
grated.  Boil  five  minutes,  take  off  and  beat  till  stiff,  then 
pour  out  to  cool. 


86  CANDIES 

PEAMIT  BRITTLE 

Boil  one-half  pound  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint  New 
Orleans  molasses,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
one-half  pint  of  water  to  the  "hard  boil"  degree :  then  add 
one  pint  of  small  peanuts,  and  continue  boiling  until  it 
cracks  easily  if  put  in  cold  water.  Add  one-quarter  pound  of 
butter  and  let  it  just  boil  in;  remove  from  fire  and  add  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle water;  stir  into  the  above  mixture.  As  soon  as  it  be- 
gins to  rise  pour  it  upon  a  marble  slab,  or  dish,  and  spread 
thin.  When  cold,  break  into  pieces.  The  thinner  it  is  run 
the  better. 


HOME  -  MADE  HOAEHOUlfD 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  preparation  for  coughs,  and 
that  made  at  home  will  contain  hoarhound,  while  the  bought 
candy  has  the  flavor  given  to  it  with  chicory.  A  manufac- 
turing confectioner  once  told  the  writer  that  he  had  never 
had  an  ounce  of  the  genuine  hoarhound  herb  in  his  factory. 
To  make  this  candy,  first  make  a  rather  strong  tea  of  the 
herbs  and  boiling  water,  then  add  one  pound  of  granulated 
or  coffee  C  sugar  to  each  half  pint  of  the  tea  and  boil  until 
it  will  crack  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  shallow, 
well  buttered  pans,  and  when  nearly  cold,  mark  into  squares 
or  bars.  One  can  soon  tell  how  strong  to  make  the  tea.  The 
fresh  herbs  are  preferable,  but  the  dried  packages  one  gets 
at  a  drug  store  will  do  nicely. 


Preserves 

^Men  make  wealth  and  women  preserve  it. 


88  PRESERFES 

GKAPE  AND  APPLE  MARMALADE 

Take  ten  pounds  of  grapes;  pulp  them,  cook  pulp  till 
tender ;  then  strain  through  colander.  Pare  apples  (Maiden- 
Blush)  ,  cut  them  as  for  sauce ;  then  put  five  pounds  of  ap- 
ples to  the  grape  skins  and  pulp  and  cook ;  allowing  one-half 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  apples  and  grapes.  Cook 
down  thick  like  all  marmalades. 


ORANGE  MAR3IALADE 

Four  lemons,  one  dozen  navel  oranges,  or  any  thin- 
skinned  and  sour  oranges.  Slice  very  thin  and  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  add  three  pints  of  cold  water;  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours;  then  boil  till  tender,  about  four  hours 
(keep  can  covered).  For  every  pint  of  fruit  add  a  pint  of 
sugar;  boil  till  thick  enough,  about  one-half  hour.  If 
oranges  are  large  it  will  make  two  dozen  glasses. 


PEACH  MARMALADE 

Rub  the  peaches,  but  do  not  pare  them.  Cut  them  in 
halves,  remove  the  stones,  and  to  every  pound  of  peaches 
allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  peaches  in  kettle; 
add  sufficient  water  to  cover  bottom  of  kettle;  cover  and 
heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Stir  and  mash  the  peaches 
fine,  add  the  sugar  and  three  or  four  kernels  (to  every  quart 
of  marmalade),  blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste.  Boil 
slowly;  stirring  frequently  for  several  hours  till  the  fruit 
is  thick  and  rich. 


QUINCE  AND  PEAR  MARMALADE 

One  peck  of  pears  and  one  dozen  of  quinces.  Pare  and 
cut  into  small  pieces,  adding  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  fruit.  Place  over  a  very  moderate  fire  or  on 
back  of  stove  until  syrup  forms.  Then  cook  slowly  five  or 
six  hours,  stirring  often. 


PRESERVES  89 

PEE SERVED  PEACHES 

Peel,  stone  and  weigh  firm  white  peaches,  allowing  to 
each  pound  of  fruit  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Arrange  fruit 
and  sugar  in  alternate  layers  in  a  kettle  and  set  at  the  side 
of  the  stove  where  the  fruit  will  heat  slowly ;  stew  for  about 
one-half  hour  after  the  preserves  come  to  a  boil;  or  until 
peaches  are  tender.  When  pierced  by  a  fork.  With  a  per- 
forated skimmer  take  the  peaches  from  the  syrup  and 
spread  them  on  a  platter,  while  you  boil  the  syrup  until 
clear  and  thick,  skimming  often.  Pack  the  fruit  in  jars,  fill 
these  to  overflowing  with  the  boiling  liquid,  and  seal  imme- 
diately. Stand  the  jars  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  while  filling 
them. 


PRESEETED  STRAWBERRIES 

One  quart  of  berries,  one  pound  of  sugar.  Use  only 
large,  selected  berries ;  wash  and  cap  them.  Put  in  a  stew- 
pan  one  quart  of  berries  and  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar ; 
boil  for  one-half  hour;  then  fill  jelly  glasses  and  put  paper 
wet  in  brandy  on  top  of  each  glass. 


PRESERVED  CHERRIES 

Stone  fruit;  if  too  much  juice,  pour  off;  put  on  fire;  to 
every  pound  of  fruit  add  one-half  pound  of  sugar.  Do  not 
boil ;  when  scalded  thoroughly  put  in  jars  air-tight. 


All  preserves  must  be  cooked  slowly. 


PRESERVED  QUINCES 

Pare  and  quarter  the  quinces,  and  if  they  are  very 
large  cut  again.  Put  them  on  the  stove,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  scald  till  they  are  tender  enough  for  a  straw 
to  go  through  them.  Then  take  them  from  the  water,  drain, 
weigh,  and  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit.  Put  this  on  back  of  stove  till  a  syrup  be- 
gins to  thicken,  then  push  front  and  let  cook  slowly  till 
syrup  is  thick  and  fruit  red  in  color. 


90  PRESERFES 

PRESERVED  PEARS 

Preserved  pears  may  be  made  the  same  way  as  the 
quinces. 


Plum  marmalade  and  quince  marmalade  may  be  made 
in  the  same  manner  as  peach  marmalade. 


PRESERYED  PEARS 

Take  large,  juicy  pears ;  pare,  and  cut  in  quarters.  To 
each  pound  of  fruit  add  one-half  pound  of  sugar.  Let  stand 
over  night ;  in  the  morning  place  on  stove  and  cook  three  or 
four  hours.    This  makes  a  nice  syrup. 


PRESERVED  CANTALOUPE  RIND 

Choose  cantaloupe  not  quite  mellow,  and  cut  the  out- 
side carefully  off ;  lay  in  a  bowl,  sprinkle  alum  over  it,  about 
one  teaspoonful  to  one  pound,  cover  it  with  boiling  water 
and  let  stand  all  night.  Take  from  the  water,  drain  well, 
then  scald  it  in  ginger  tea,  but  do  not  boil  it,  then  drain 
again.  To  one  pound  of  rind  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
one-half  pint  of  water.  Boil  slowly  without  cover  (add 
sliced  lemon)  until  fruit  is  clear  and  syrup  thick.  Pack  the 
rinds  in  jars;  pour  over  the  syrup  and  seal. 


PRESERVED  RAW  PINEAPPLE 

Pare  the  pineapple  and  take  out  the  eyes.  With  a  sharp 
knife  cut  down  the  sides  in  thin  slices  until  the  heart  is 
reached.  Weigh  the  sliced  fruit  and  put  in  a  large  earthen 
bowl,  add  its  weight  in  granulated  sugar,  stirring  the  sugar 
through  the  fruit.  Pack  in  air-tight  cans,  screw  the  covers 
on  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  dark  place.  The  pineapple  will 
keep  fresh  and  firm  a  year. 


PRESERVED  PLUMS 

Wash  plums,  pick  with  needle,  then  put  them  in  a  crock 
and  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  all  night.  Take 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit ;  add  enough  water 
to  the  sugar  to  melt  it  so  as  to  make  a  syrup,  and  cook  till 
clear.  Then  add  fruit  carefully,  pressing  it  under  the  syrup, 
and  cook  slowly  till  done. 


PRESERVES  91 

APPLE  JELLY 

Wash,  core  and  cut  the  apples  into  small  pieces ;  put  in 
kettle  and  barely  cover  with  water.  When  tender  strain 
through  a  thick  bag.  Measure  the  juice,  allowing  one  pound 
of  sugar  to  a  pint.  Return  to  kettle  and  boil  twenty  min- 
utes. 


FRUIT  JELLIES 

Currant,  blackberry,  strawberry,  etc.  Cook  fruit  until 
broken  to  pieces ;  then  put  it  in  flannel  bag  and  drain  over 
night.  To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  the 
juice  on  alone  to  boil,  and  while  it  is  warming  divide  the 
sugar  into  several  different  portions,  put  into  shallow  dishes 
and  heat  in  the  oven,  stirring  now  and  then  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Boil  the  juice  just  twenty  minutes  from  the  moment 
it  begins  fairly  to  boil.  By  this  time  the  sugar  should  be 
too  hot  to  hold  your  hand  in  it.  Should  it  mel't  around  the 
edges  do  not  be  alarmed,  as  the  burned  parts  will  form  into 
lumps  in  the  syrup  and  can  be  taken  out.  Throw  the  sugar 
into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  while  until 
sugar  is  all  dissolved;  when  dissolved  remove  spoon  and 
let  jelly  come  to  a  boil,  to  make  all  certain,  then  take  in- 
stantly from  the  fire.  Have  glasses  heated  and  fill  with  the 
scalding  liquid; 

KASPBERRT  AND  CURRANT  JELLY 

To  two  parts  red  raspberries,  or  "blackcaps,"  put  one 
of  red  currants,  and  proceed  as  with  other  jelly.  The  flavor 
is  exquisite. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM 

Wash  and  stem  the  fruit,  place  in  a  kettle  and  barely 
cover  with  water.  When  soft  measure  and  allow  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Return  to 
kettle  and  boil  one-half  hour,  or  until  the  jam  is  red. 


TOMATO  BUTTER 

Seven  pounds  ripe  tomatoes ;  add  to  them  three  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce 
whole  cloves,  and  one  pint  of  good  cider  vinegar.  Boil  three 
hours. 


92  PRESERVES 

LEMON  BUTTER 

To  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  add  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  eggs,  beaten 
together.    Place  on  stove  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 


SPICED  FRUIT 


SWEET  PICKLED  WATERMELON  RIND 

Pare  the  rind  an  cut  in  small  pieces;  cover  with  cold 
water;  add  one-half  cupful  of  salt;  let  stand  over  night; 
then  drain  and  cover  with  cold  water  for  one-half  hour;  par- 
boil it  in  alum  and  ginger  water  (one  teaspoonful  of  alum 
and  two  or  three  pieces  of  ginger  root),  until  tender.  Drain; 
make  a  syrup  from  four  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of 
vinegar,  spiCe  to  taste  (cinnamon,  ginger  and  very  few 
cloves).  Boil  and  skim;  add  seven  pounds  of  rind  to  this 
quantity  of  syrup.  Boil  until  the  rind  clears.  Put  in  jars 
and  seal. 


SPICED  PEACHES 

Six  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  vinegar  (add  more  vinegar  if  more  syrup  is 
desired)  ;  an  even  tablespoonful  cloves  and  several  sticks  of 
cinnamon  tied  in  bags  and  cooked  in  syrup.  When  syrup 
comes  to  a  boil  add  peaches,  but  only  enough  to  be  covered 
by  syrup ;  cook  till  a  straw  will  push  easily  to  the  seed.  Take 
out  peaches,  put  in  jars  and  cover,  and  so  continue  till  all 
are  done.  Then  cook  syrup  fifteen  minutes  longer;  pour 
over  peaches  and  seal. 


CANTALOUPE  SWEET  PICKLE 

Take  green  cantaloupes,  cut  and  pare  and  boil  them  in 
alum  water  until  soft  enough  to  run  a  straw  through ;  then 
drop  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  drain,  and 
to  every  seven  or  nine  pounds  of  melon  allow  four  pounds 
of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  vinegar;  and  spice  (whole)  to  the 
taste. 


PRESERVES  93 

SWEET-PICKLE  WATERMELOIf  KINDS 

Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint 
of  vinegar,  five  cents  worth  of  mace  (whole),  five  cents 
worth  of  stick  cinnamon,  five  cents  worth  of  whole  cloves ; 
boil  the  rind  in  ginger  water  until  tender  (five  cents  worth 
of  ginger) ;  then  make  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar,  and 
when  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  the  rind  (drained  from  ginger 
water) ,  and  spices  and  cook  slowly  until  clear. 


CANNED  FRUITS 


CAIfNED  PEACHES 

To  every  quart  glass  jar  of  peaches  add  one-half  pound 
of  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water.  Have  ready  a  steamer  or  boil- 
er with  board  across  bricks  in  the  bottom.  Fill  as  many 
jars  as  the  steamer  will  hold.  Put  the  lids  on  (without 
screwing)  and  place  on  the  board  in  the  bottom  of  steamer. 
Fill  the  steamer  with  cold  water  until  it  covers  a  third  of 
the  jar.  Put  lid  on  steamer.  Cook  the  peaches  until  you 
can  pierce  them  with  a  straw.  Take  the  jars  out.  They 
must  be  full  of  fruit  when  sealed;  if  necessary  use  the 
peaches  from  one  jar  to  fill  the  others. 


TO  CAN  RHirBARB 

Wash  and  cut  the  stems  as  for  stewing.  Place  in  the 
jars,  and  fill  them  to  overflowing  with  cold  water.  Screw 
on  the  tops.  When  you  wish  to  use  the  rhubarb  add  sugar 
and  stew,  the  same  as  fresh  rhubarb. 


CANNED  CHERRIES 

Pick  fruit  when  fully  ripe;  remove  the  seeds,  and  make 
a  syrup  with  sugar  and  enough  water  to  dissolve  it,  allow- 
ing one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit ;  let  syrup 
boil,  remove  the  scum,  then  add  cherries  and  boil  until  cook- 
ed through ;  stirring  occasionally  from  bottom.  Put  in  self- 
seahng  cans  and  keep  in  a  dark,  cool  closet. 

In  preserving,  to  prevent  jars  from  cracking,  put  silver 
spoon  in  jar;  when  filled  remove  spoon. 


94  PRESERVES 

BAKED  PEACHES 


BAKED  PEACHES 

Select  large  ripe  peaches,  put  in  a  pan,  pour  around 
them  a  rich  syrup  of  sugar  water ;  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  Baste  well  while  cooking ;  when  cool  to  be  eaten  with 
cream. 


Pickles 

'A  pepper  corn  is  very  small  but  seasons  every  dinne/ 


96  PICKLES 

CHOW  CHOW 

One-half  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  six  onions,  two  doz- 
en cucumbers  (pickles)  sliced;  cut,  salt  and  press  tomatoes 
over  night.  One-quarter  pound  of  Coleman's  mustard,  three- 
quarters  pound  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  celery  seed, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  turmeric,  one-half  dozen  peppers  chop- 
ped fine.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  when  nearly  done  add 
one  pint  of  butter  beans  previously  cooked  until  done.  If 
preferred  you  can  use  one  and  one-half  dozen  cucumbers 
and  one  quart  of  butter  beans. 


CUCTJMBEE  PICKLES 

Make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg,  and 
pour  boiling  hot  over  six  hundred  small  cucumbers  and  four 
green  peppers.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  take 
them  out,  wiping  each  one.  Heat  suflficient  vinegar  (boiling 
hot)  to  cover  them,  and  pour  over;  let  them  stand  in  this 
vinegar  twenty-four  hours,  and  then  pour  it  off.  Prepare 
fresh  vinegar  into  which  put  the  following  ingredients :  One 
ounce  each  of  whole  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  two 
quarts  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  white  mustard  seed 
and  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  an  egg.  Heat  this  scalding 
hot  and  pour  over  the  cucumbers;  cover  closely  and  set 
away  for  a  few  days,  when  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 


FOE  PICKLES 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  small  head  of  cab- 
bage, one  dozen  good  sized  onions;  all  chopped  fine  and 
sprinkled  with  salt;  let  stand  over  night,  then  drain;  take 
one  pint  of  vinegar  and  one  quart  of  water,  pour  over  and 
let  stand  three  or  four  hours.  Then  drain  and  put  in  kettle ; 
add  spices,  one-quarter  pound  whole  mustard  seed,  one  ounce 
celery  seed,  two  red  and  two  green  peppers,  good  sized, 
chopped  fine,  one-half  dozen  cucumbers  chopped  fine,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  and  a 
half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  or  sugar  to  taste. 

Cook  one-half  hour,  bottle  and  seal. 


PICKLES  97 

MUSTARD   PICKLES 

Two  quarts  of  cucumbers,  one  quart  of  onions,  one  gal- 
lon of  green  tomatoes,  six  green  peppers,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  mustard,  two-thirds  cup  of  flour,  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  tur- 
meric. 

Mix  flour,  mustard  and  turmeric  with  a  little  cold  vine- 
gar, pour  into  the  boiling  vinegar  for  dressing,  then  add 
other  ingredients. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 

Two  quarts  pickled  cucumbers,  one  quart  onions,  one 
quart  tomatoes,  six  green  peppers,  one  cauliflower,  each 
cut ;  scant  one-half  cup  salt.  Cook  the  above  till  onions  and 
tomatoes  are  tender,  then  drain. 

Dressing:— Six  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  turmeric,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  sugar  two  quarts  strong  vinegar.  Cook  dressing  thick, 
as  it  will  thin  after  adding  to  the  pickles. 


FRENCH  PICKLE 

One-quarter  peck  green  tomatoes,  ten  onions,  one-half 
head  cabbage,  two  dozen  green  cucumbers.  Chop  these  fine, 
salt,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Two  dozen  pickled  cucum- 
bers, one-half  pound  of  ground  mustard,  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  white  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed,  two 
tablespoonfuls  turmeric. 

Boil  all  until  onions  and  tomatoes  are  tender.  Add  one 
wine  glass  of  salad  oil  when  the  pickle  is  cold. 


MIXED  PICKLES 

Two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  one-quarter  peck  green 
tomatoes,  ten  large  white  onions,  one-half  head  cabbage, 
three  large  green  peppers  and  three  red  ones.  Chop  all 
fine,  and  salt  them  down  and  allow  to  drain  ten  hours,  then 
wash  off  salt  and  let  drain  again  for  two  hours.  Chop  and 
add  to  the  above  two  dozen  pickled  cucumbers,  to  one  gallon 
of  good  cider  vinegar  add  1  pound  mustard,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  white  pepper,  two  tablespoonful  tumeric,  let  come  to  a 
boil  and  pour  over  pickles,  cook  until  tender. 


98'  PICKLES 

MIXED  PICKLES 

One  gallon  of  green  tomatoes  sliced  and  salted,  one 
quart  of  lima  beans,  one  quart  of  string  beans,  one  quart  of 
corn,  one  quart  of  onions,  one  quart  of  green  cucumbers, 
one-half  ounce  of  turmeric,  five  cents  worth  each  of  black 
and  white  mustard,  three  green  and  three  red  peppers,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one  gallon  of  vinegar.  Cook  beans  and  corn 
separately ;  cook  tomatoes  and  onions  together  until  tender ; 
drain  thoroughly ;  mix  and  boil  one-half  hour. 


MIXED  PICKLES 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  four  dozen  cucumbers 
sliced,  twelve  onions  chopped  or  sliced.  Cut  and  salt  toma- 
toes over  night.  One-quarter  pound  mustard,  two  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  four  teaspoonf uls  celery  seed,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  turmeric,  ten  or  twelve  small  peppers  cut  fine,  two 
quarts  of  lima  beans  cooked  separately.  Cover  the  above 
with  vinegar  and  cook  down  nearly  one-half,  then  add  the 
lima  beans  when  the  pickle  is  about  done. 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

One  gallon  green  tomatoes,  one  gallon  cabbage,  one 
dozen  green  peppers,  two  large  red  peppers,  four  large 
onions  chopped  fine,  two  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  one 
ounce  celery  seed,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  gallon  vinegar. 
Chop  all  fine,  salt  tomatoes  and  cabbage  over  night  with  one 
cup  salt. 


PICKLED   CAULIFLOWER 

Cook  the  cauliflower  till  tender  in  well  salted  water; 
put  it  in  jars,  then  pour  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  five  cents 
worth  of  ground  mustard  previously  scalded  together  over 
them. 


PICKLES  99 

PICKLED   CHERRIES 

Stone  ripe  cherries  and  cover  with  vinegar;  let  them 
stand  for  twenty-four  hours ;  then  drain  off  the  vinegar  and 
add  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  one  pint  of  fruit.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  put  away  in  jars.  They  will  keep  perfectly 
without  sealing  and  are  delicious. 


BORDEAUX   SAUCE 

One  gallon  of  cabbage,  the  same  of  green  tomatoes 
chopped  fine;  salt  separately  the  night  before  with  nearly 
one  teacupful  of  salt.  The  next  morning  drain  in  colander 
and  wash  out  part  of  the  salt ;  put  on  the  fire  one-half  gallon 
of  vinegar  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar  and  let  come  to  a 
boil ;  then  add  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes,  four  onions  chop- 
ped fine,  one  ounce  of  celery  seed,  two  ounces  of  white  mus- 
tard seed,  one  dozen  green  peppers  chopped  fine  and  two  red 
mango  peppers. 

Put  in  jars  very  hot  and  screw  up  tight. 


CHELSEA  SAUCE 

Scald  and  strain  through  a  sieve  three  dozen  large  ripe 
tomatoes ;  add  to  this  six  good  sized  sweet  peppers  and  four 
white  onions  chopped  fine,  three  tablespoonfuls  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  ground  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  mustard, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (three  or  four  of  sugar  if  vinegar 
is  very  strong),  three  teacupfuls  of  good  vinegar.  Boil  two 
hours. 


COLD  CATSUP 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes  (grated),  two  roots  horse- 
radish, four  stalks  of  celery,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  mus- 
tard seed,  eight  green  peppers,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  small  cupful  of 
salt,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  ground  black 
pepper,  two  pods  of  red  pepper,  three  pints  best  cider  vine- 
gar. Chop  and  mix;  tomatoes  to  be  well  drained  before 
mixing  with  the  other  ingredients. 


100  PICKLES 

T03IAT0  CATSUP 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  four  green  peppers  with  seed, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  mustard  seed, 
two  ounces  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of  salt,  four  cupfuls  of 
vinegar.    Boil  one  hour. 


STUFFED  PEPPERS 

Cut  the  tops  from  two  dozen  green  peppers,  remove  the 
seeds  and  save  tops;  stand  the  peppers  in  a  tub  and  cover 
with  salt  brine;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours;  drain.  Chop 
two  large  heads  of  cabbage,  salt  and  let  stand  three  or  four 
hours,  drain  the  water  from  the  cabbage  and  add  one-half 
ounce  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-half  ounce  of  black  mus- 
tard, one  ounce  of  celery  seed,  three  red  and  three  green 
peppers  chopped  fine,  four  onions  chopped  fine.  Mix  thor- 
oughly with  good  vinegar,  stuff  peppers  with  this  mixture; 
put  on  the  tops,  tie  tightly;  stand  in  stone  jars  and  cover 
with  cold  vinegar.    Prefer  hot  peppers  to  sweet  ones. 


Tea,  Coffee,  Etc. 

'The  knowledge  of  the  Chickens  Blue 
BeHveen  these  covers  goes  to  you, 
And  Wisdom  lingers  when  with  pride 
Each  good  receipt  is  fairly  tried/' 


102  TEA,  COFFEE.  ETC. 

COFFEE 

The  most  important  point  in  making  good  coffee  is  to 
use  the  water  at  the  first  boil.  Have  your  coffee  pot  per- 
fectly clean  and  fill  it  with  fresh  cold  water  and  bring  it  to 
a  boiling  point.  Then  allow  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
finely  ground  coffee  to  each  cup;  pour  over  it  the  water 
until  you  have  the  desired  quantity.  If  not  strong  at  the 
first  pouring,  then  drain  and  pour  the  same  water  again 
over  the  grounds  until  you  have  the  desired  strength. 


BOILED  COFFEE 

Put  two  ounces  ground  coffee  into  the  pot,  set  on  stove, 
stirring  constantly  until  quite  hot.  Then  pour  into  the  pot 
one  pint  of  fresh  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  for  five  min- 
utes.   Strain  through  a  warm  cloth  and  serve. 


TEA 

Scald  your  tea  pot.  For  six  persons  put  in  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  English  breakfast  tea  (black).  Let  your  water 
boil  up  once,  then  pour  over  the  tea,  and  after  standing  a 
few  minutes  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 


CHOCOLATE 

One-half  pound  of  Baker's  chocolate,  two  quarts  of 
water,  two  quarts  of  new  milk.  Have  water  and  milk  boil- 
ing before  adding  grated  chocolate  and  one  cup  of  sugar. 
Boil  a  very  few  minutes  and  just  before  using  flavor  with 
vanilla.    This  is  sufficient  quantity  for  thirty  people. 


DRINK  FOR  INTALIDS 

One  pound  ground  flaxseed  and  two  lemons  boiled  to- 
gether in  four  quarts  of  water.  Sweeten  to  taste  after  it 
cools.     Especially  good  for  persons  with  weak  lungs. 


BARLEY  WATER 

Take  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley ;  add  one-half  pint  boil- 
ing water  and  let  it  simmer  just  a  few  minutes;  drain  off 
and  add  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  with  a  few  raisins  and 
figs  cut  fine.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  until  reduced  one-half 
and  strain.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  sweeten  to 
taste. 


Wine  Quotation 

^ Drink  to  me  only  with  thine  eyes, 
And  I  will  pledge  with  mine; 

Or  leave  a  kiss  but  in  the  cup, 
And  I'll  not  look  for  wine.'' 

— Ben  Johnson 


104  WINES 

BASPBEERY  TINEGAB 

Put  two  quarts  of  fresh  berries  in  a  crock,  pour  over 
them  one  quart  of  white  wine  vinegar ;  let  this  stand  twen- 
ty-four hours ;  strain  and  pour  this  over  two  quarts  of  fresh 
berries;  after  standing  another  twenty-four  hours,  strain 
and  to  every  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 

Let  all  boil  thirty  minutes;  skim  when  scum  rises 
again;  bottle  and  seal. 


CHEBBT  VINEGAB 

To  every  quart  of  mashed  cherries  put  one  pint  of 
vinegar ;  let  this  stand  three  days ;  then  strain  and  to  every 
pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  fifteen  minutes. 
When  nearly  cold  bottle  and  cork  tight. 


CIDEB  YDfEGAB 

After  cider  has  become  too  sour  for  use  set  it  in  a  warm 
place;  put  to  it  occasionally  rinsing  of  the  sugar  basin  or 
molasses  jug  and  any  remains  of  ale  or  cold  tea;  let  it  re- 
main with  the  bung  open  and  you  will  soon  have  the  best  of 
vinegar. 


UISFEBMENTED   GBAPE  JUICE 

Ten  pounds  of  Concord  grapes,  cover  with  water,  boil 
one  hour  and  strain;  after  straining  add  three  pounds  of 
sugar  to  juice;  put  on  fire  and  cook  five  to  ten  minutes. 


WINE  WHET  FOB  SICK 

Boil  one-half  pint  of  new  milk;  while  this  is  boiling 
put  in  a  cup  of  white  wine,  stir  this  up;  turn  into  a  bowl 
and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes ;  turn  it  off  from  the  curd  and 
sweeten  it  as  you  like  with  sugar. 


BEEF   TEA 

To  one  pound  of  ground  meat  put  one  pint  of  cold 
water ;  let  this  simmer,  not  boil,  for  twenty  minutes ;  strain 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


Miscellaneous 


Dost  thou  wish  to  remove  a  stain, 
Or  cure  the  colic  or  kindred  pain? 
Or  seekest  knowledge  to  kill  a  skeet, 
Or  raise  the  temperature  of  chilly  feet? 
Hast  thou  ants  whose  death  would  please, 
Or  hast  a  girl  would'st  like  to  squeeze? 
Hast  thou  anything  would'st  like  to  know? 
From  crown  of  head  to  tip  of  toe? 
Then  read  within. 

— Henry  Belle  Thaw 


106  MISCELLANEOUS 

COLD  WATER  SOAP 

One  quart  of  soft  water  cold,  five  pounds  of  grease, 
one  pound  can  Banner  lye,  or  Babbitt's,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ammonia  and  one  tablespoonful  of  borax.  Dissolve  lye 
in  the  water;  when  perfectly  cold  add  the  grease  warm, 
strained  through  a  coarse  cloth  into  the  lye.  Stir  constant- 
ly with  a  stick  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  shoe  boxes.  Set 
on  a  board,  and  when  cool  cut  it  out.  It  will  make  soap  in 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 


TO  CE5IENT  BEOKEN  CHINA 

Beat  lime  into  the  most  impalpable  powder;  sift  it 
through  fine  muslin,  then  tie  same  into  a  thin  muslin;  put 
on  the  edge  of  the  broken  china,  some  white  of  an  agg,  then 
dust  some  lime  quickly  on  the  same  and  unite  them  exact- 
Iv. 


TO  WASH  CHENILLE  CURTAINS 

Two  ounces  of  ether  sulphate,  two  ounces  of  borax,  two 
ounces  of  soda,  one  cake  of  ivory  soap;  shave  soap  and  let 
dissolve  in  warm  water,  then  add  other  ingredients  to  sufn- 
cient  warm  water  to  wash  curtains  in.  Do  not  rub  on  board, 
but  dash  up  and  down  in  water  until  clean.  Do  not  wring 
them,  but  squeeze  out  of  the  water  and  lay  them  length- 
wise in  a  shady  place.  Then  take  a  whisk  broom  and  brush 
until  dry. 

Do  not  go  near  the  fire  as  ether  sulphate  is  explosive. 


TO  CLEAN  OLD  BRASS 

Rub  with  the  half  of  a  freshly  cut  lemon  until  the 
article  is  clean,  then  wash  in  clear  water,  and  polish  with 
a  soft  cloth. 


TO  REMOVE  GREASE  FROM  A  WOODEN  FLOOR 

Cover  the  spot  thickly  with  baking  soda,  then  pour 
boiling  water  on  it  until  the  grease  disappears. 


MISCELLANEOUS  107 

TO  RI3I0VE  GRASS  STAINS 

Cover  the  stain  with  molasses.     Lay  in  the  sun  until 
dry;  then  wash  in  soap  and  water. 


TO  REMOTE  IROTf  RUST 

Cover  the  stain  with  lemon  juice  and  salt;  lay  in  the 
sun.    Repeat  this  until  stain  disappears. 


TO  CLEAX  MATTING 

Wash  as  seldom  as  possible ;  but  when  necessary  to  do 
so,  use  salt  and  water.  Salt  prevents  the  matting  turning 
yellow.  Dry  as  fast  as  you  wash  and  wash  but  a  little  at  a 
time. 


TO  WHITEN  CLOTHES 

One  saucer  of  lime,  two  pounds  of  washing  soda ;  put  in 
a  two  gallon  crock,  and  fill  with  boiling  water,  one  teacupful 
to  a  boiler  of  clothes.    Boil  the  clothes  and  then  rub  them. 


TO  CLEAN  LEAD  PIPES 

Clean  lead  pipes  leading  from  wash  bowls  by  pouring 
down  them  a  strong  solution  of  potash.  Dissolve  in  hot 
water.    Do  not  get  the  mixture  on  hands  or  clothing. 


HONEY  BALSAM 

Three  parts  of  strained  honey  and  one  part  glycerine 
warmed  together  and  cooled;  to  one  cupful  of  this  mixture 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rectified  spirits,  in  which  six 
drachms  of  pure  lemon  juice  has  been  dissolved.  This  is 
excellent  for  removing  tan. 


S03IE  USES  FOR  VINEGAR 

Vinegar  will  keep  the  hands  white  and  smooth,  and 
prevent  chapping  when  exposed  to  the  cold  air  after  wash- 
ing in  hot  or  soapy  water.     Before  drying  the  hands  rub 


108  MISCELLANEOUS 

over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  the  relief  will  be 
very  great. 

The  toughest  beef  or  chicken  can  be  made  tender  and 
palatable  by  putting  a  good  spoonful  of  cider-vinegar  in  the 
pot  in  which  it  is  boiling,  or  in  the  juice  with  which  it  is 
basted  if  roasting  in  a  pan. 

One-half  pint  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper  and  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
will  cure  night-sweats.  Mix,  and  let  cool ;  strain,  and  sponge 
the  patient  at  bedtime. 

In  warm  weather  bathe  with  diluted  vinegar ;  it  is  cool- 
ing, and  will  make  the  skin  soft. 


SALTIJfG  HAMS  OR  BEEF 

For  one  hundred  pounds  of  beef  or  hams :  seven  pounds 
of  salt,  two  ounces  of  salt-petre,  one-half  ounce  of  saleratus, 
six  ounces  of  sugar  or  molasses  to  six  gallons  of  water 
made  into  a  lime.  Boil,  and  skim ;  pour  on  while  hot.  Smoke 
beef  three  weeks  and  hams  eight  weeks. 


TO  REBIOVE  MILDEW  FROM  CLOTH 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  chloride  of  lime  into  a  quart  of 
water,  strain  it  twice,  then  dip  cloth  in  this  weak  solution 
and  lay  in  the  sun. 


FROSTED  FEET 

Rubbing  freely  with  essence  of  pepperment;  also  a  slice 
of  lemon  sprinkled  with  salt. 


HINTS  FOR  THE  KITCHEN 

Always  keep  your  celery  roots  and  dry  them.  They 
are  good  for  seasoning  soups  and  sauces. 

To  obtain  a  drop  or  two  of  onion  juice  for  seasoning 
cut  the  onion  across  the  grain  and,  holding  it  firmly,  draw 
a  sharp  edged  spoon  across  the  cut  edge,  holding  the  spoon 
so  as  to  catch  the  juice. 

When  tomatoes  and  milk  are  to  be  put  together,  as  in 
a  cream  soup,  have  the  tomato  juice  and  milk  of  the  same 


MISCELLANEOUS  109 

temperature,  then  beat  vigorously  as  the  tomato  is  added, 
little  by  little. 

SOAP  RECIPE 

To  five  pounds  of  fat ;  if  skins,  or,  of  whole  grease,  four 
and  one-half  pounds,  one  can  of  lye,  one-half  pound  of  wash- 
ing soda,  a  little  salt  (a  cupful  or  more). 

To  about  fifteen  pounds  of  fat,  one  and  one-half  gal- 
lons of  water.  Boil  three  hours.  Should  it  not  harden,  you 
may  have  to  boil  again. 

HOUSEWIFELY  HOTS 

Serve,  with  the  salad,  little  rounds  of  pie-crust  rolled 
very  thin,  fried  in  hot  fat  and  sprinkled  with  granulated 

sugar.  .„       ,     ,,      ,, 

The  white  of  an  egg  added  to  cream  will  not  alter  the 
flavor  though  increasing  the  quantity  and  will  cause  it  to 
whip  to  a  froth  more  readily.  ,      , ,  ,       .  .^  ^ 

For  successful  sponge  cake,  the  flour  should  be  silted 
four  times  before  measured,  the  sugar  twice  and  the  tins 
should  be  lined  with  greased  paper.  , 

Southern  cooks  never  wash  waffle  irons,  cleaning  them 
with  coarse  salt  anl  plenty  of  clean  brown  paper  and  putting 
them  away  in  a  fresh  paper  bag.  . 

With  a  can  of  chicken,  tongue,  salmon,  shrimps,  mush- 
rooms, asparagus,  peas,  beans,  sweet  corn  and  tomatoes, 
two  or  three  kinds  of  soup,  a  tin  of  dried  beef,  a  box  ot 
wafers,  several  glasses  of  jelly  and  a  bottle  of  salad  dress- 
ing on  her  "emergency"  shelf,  no  housewife  need  be  dis- 
mayed when  unexpected  company  is  announced. 

BURNS 

Coal  oil  freely  used  on  a  burn  will  take  out  the  fire  and 
soreness. 

CLEANING  FLUID 

Three  ounces  white  castile  soap,  dissolved  in  one  quart 
of  warm  water  (soft  water),  three  quarts  of  cold  water, 
three  ounces  of  Aqua  ammonia,  three  ounces  of  sulphuric 
ether,  three  ounces  of  alcohol,  two  ounces  of  glycerine. 


110  MISCELLANEOUS 

HOW  TO  HATE  A  FAIR  SKIN 


Practical  Hints  on  the  Care  of  the  Complexion 

There  is  no  such  fresh  tonic  as  a  morning  hand  bath  of 
cold  salt  water  for  all  but  those  weaklings  who  find  the  ef- 
fect too  severe.  For  an  oily  skin  a  little  camphor  in  the 
wash  basin  or  rubbing  the  face  with  a  cloth  instead  of  the 
hands  will  prove  beneficial. 

Sunburn  may  be  removed  by  either  the  white  of  one 
^gg  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  heated  (not  boiled)  together 
for  a  half  hour,  or  two  cups  young,  fresh  lettuce  mashed 
and  mixed  with  one  cupful  of  boiling  mutton  tallow,  left  to 
boil  up,  then  strained,  perfumed,  beaten  till  cold  and  packed 
for  use  in  a  covered  jar. 

Moist  starch  or  hot  water  will  remove  the  discoloration 
from  a  bruise. 

The  use  of  a  handful  of  bran,  tied  in  a  cloth  and  dipped 
in  tepid  water,  will  help  to  smooth  a  raughened  skin.  A  few 
drops  of  benzoin  in  a  little  water,  rubbed  over  the  flesh  after 
a  bath,  imparts  a  delightful,  violet-like  odor  to  the  body. 

For  freckles  use  either  of  these  mixtures :  Two-thirds 
lemon  juice  to  one-third  Jamaica  rum,  or  one  ounce  lemon 
juice,  one  and  one-quarter  drachms  borax,  one-half  drachm 
of  sugar,  left  bottled  several  days  before  using. 

The  lips  may  be  bathed  with  alumn  water  occasionally 
and  then  rubbed  with  camphor  ice,  or  with  this  preparation 
if  they  should  be  chapped :  One  cupful  of  peeled  and  grated 
ripe  cucumber  stirred  in  one  cupful  of  clarified  boiling  mut- 
ton tallow  and  beaten  till  cold;  then  perfumed  and  packed 
in  a  covered  jar. 

Beautifiers  pure  and  simple  are  the  followings,  to  be 
used  as  washes :  1.  The  extracted  milk  of  freshly-grated 
cocoanut.  2.  One  pint  witch  hazel  and  two  ounces  of  gly- 
cerine added  to  one  quart  of  boiled  water  and  applied  with 
a  soft  cloth.  3.  Flowers  jof  sulphur  mixed  with  milk, 
which  is  poured  off  after  an  hour  or  two,  and  rubbed  on 
the  face  with  a  cloth.  Steaming  the  face  before  going  to 
bed  is  likewise  recommended.  It  is  said  that  the  habit  of 
regularly  sleeping  upon  either  side  brings  wrinkles  about 
that  eye,  to  prevent  which  it  would  be  as  well  to  lie  on  each 
side  for  part  of  the  night.  i 


MISCELLANEOUS  111 

Bathing  the  face  frequently  with  very  hot  water  is 
sometimes  enthusiastically  advised.  It  is  certain  that  it 
thoroughly  cleanses  the  skin,  which  otherwise  is  less  often 
done  than  one  cares  to  consider.  But  it  may  be  doubted 
whether  a  multitude  of  the  tiniest  lines  and  wrinkles  do  not 
follow  its  persistent  use.  So  cold  water  certainly  roughens 
the  face,  and  soap  causes  it  to  shine  unduly.  Perhaps  the 
most  reasonable  alternative  is  the  careful  appliance  of 
nothing  except  warm  water,  and  a  thorough  washing  once 
a  day,  followed  by  rinsing,  with  some  good  soap.  This  course 
cannot  possibly  harm ;  more  than  possibly  it  may  help. 


TO  DESTROY  MOTHS 

After  cleaning  and  hanging  clothes  in  the  sun  for  a 
while,  put  them  in  a  trunk  or  box,  and  sprinkle  chloroform 
over  them ;  then  close  the  trunk  tightly.  This  will  destroy 
moths,  as  well  as  the  egg  of  the  moth. 


USES  OF  TURPElfTINE 

A  bottle  of  turpentine  should  be  kept  in  every  home,  a 
few  drops  sprinkled  where  ants  or  roaches  congregate  will 
drive  them  away.  Moths  are  killed  by  the  odor  of  it.  It  is  a 
good  remedy  for  a  burn  or  cut.  When  added  to  soap  it  will 
take  out  ink  stains  from  white  muslin.  It  takes  out  fresh 
paint,  cleans  paint  brushes,  whitens  clothes  if  added  to  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled. 


THE  COOK  BOOK 

Salt  in  the  oven  under  baking  tins  will  prevent  pastry 
scorching  on  the  bottom. 

If  it  is  desired  to  keep  cakes  moist  put  them  in  a  stone 
jar.    If  crisp  cakes  are  preferred  use  tin  as  a  receptacle. 

When  weighing  molasses  sprinkle  the  scale  well  with 
flour,  and  then  it  will  slip  off  again  quite  easily  without 
sticking. 

The  best  way  to  mash  potatoes  is  to  rub  them  through 
a  wire  sieve.  You  can  then  be  sure  there  are  no  lumps 
left. 


112  MISCELLANEOUS 

For  luncheon  or  supper  serve  the  bread  and  butter  in 
the  form  of  sandwiches.  Cut  the  bread  thin  and  remove 
part  of  the  crust.  Cut  in  strips  after  buttering  or  in  rounds 
with  a  biscuit  cutter. 

By  cutting  old  potatoes  into  very  small  balls,  allowing 
them  to  soak  for  three  or  four  hours  in  cold  water,  then 
boiling  in  cold  salted  water  and  serving  with  cream  sauce,  a 
very  good  substitute  for  new  potatoes  is  obtained.  „ , 

. f 

THE  MOLDING  BOARD 

Much  scouring  and  scrubbing  can  be  avoided  by  the 
use  of  thick  sheets  of  brown  paper  on  the  molding  board 
when  rolling  out  pastry  in  which  a  great  deal  of  shorteviing 
has  been  used.  "That  greasy  look"  which  the  board  other- 
wise takes  on  is  very  distressing  to  the  neat  housewife. 


A  MIDSUMMER  COMFORT 

/  ( 

Simple  Little  Remedy  for  the  July  Pantry-Pest 

The  troublesome  little  red  ants  that  appear  as  if  by 
magic  about  midsummer,  and  take  complete  control  of  the 
pantry  at  the  time  when  summer  heat  makes  other  trials 
hard  to  endure,  may  now  be  routed  by  a  very  "ample  remedy. 
A  practical  housewife  made  the  discovery  by  accident,  and 
it  has  been  found  satisfactory  in  every  instance  in  which  it 
has  since  been  tried.  Simply  mix  five  cents  worth  of  tartar 
emtic  in  an  equal  amount  of  white  sugar,  make  it  quite 
moist  with  cold  water,  put  into  small  dishes  and  set  it  on 
the  shelves  where  the  ants  are  troublesome.  The  ants  will 
disappear  quite  as  mysteriously  as  they  came,  and  there 
will  be  no  dead  ones  lyi'ng  around  on  shelves  and  floor.  Do 
not  throw  the  mixture  away,  but  s  ewe  it  for  further  at- 
tacks, as  it  can  easily  be  moistene  and  used  again  when 
you  go  to  the  pantry  some  warm,  .loist  morning  and  find 
sugar  bowl,  coo^ws  and  all  sor^  of  sweets  and  cereals 
swarming  with/fe  troublesome     ttle  summer  pests. 


WOMEN 

control  the  expenditure  of  the  larger  part 
of  most  family  incomes.  They  should  have 
at  their  disposal  every  facility  for  systema- 
tic and  economical  disbursement. 

.  Checking  Account 

vith  this  bank  simplifies  household  account- 
ing and  saves  money.  Checks  are  also  far 
more  convenient  and  business-like;  every 
ancelled  check  is  a  valuable  record  of  the 
tiansaction — a  perfect  receipt  for  payment 
and  proof  in  case  any  question  ever  comes 
ur    oncerning  it. 

The  ^' necking  System 

is  the  most   popular,  because  it  is  the  best 
method  ever  devised  for  handling  money. 


Don't  be   atisfied  with  bad  business  methods. 
COME     IN     AND     TALK     IT    OVER. 


MLFORPJiSTCOiM 

MILFORD,  DELAW/  7E 

MEMBKR     KEUERAL     KESEKVt,         'STEM 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  485  085  3  « 

%ead  TA7 

SMilford  Chronicle 

25,000  READERS   EACH  ISSUE 

PUBLISHED     EVERY     FRIDAY    AT 

MILFORD       -      -       DELAWARE 

The  Chronicle  prints  letters   each 

issue  from  more  communities  than  any 
newspaper   published    in   Delaware. 

Gives    the   State,   county  and   local 
news  in  an  honest,  unbiased  manner. 

Advocates    all    measures   for  the 
good  of  Delaware. 


Classified  Ads 

in  the  Chronicle  will  sell,  find,  or 
locate  that  item  which  you  have  in 
mind. 

Try  Them 


