o  •    * 


*^  0^  


o  "  « 


^    V^^'/    \-^-\/    "°,''^'/ 


•^"^      A^ 


2.^-^^. 


O  •    » 


^^  **Tr.'^  .<^«- 


.^^<o 


-^0^  

/.'J^>X      /V^^^^     /.-^A, 


*0^. 


.4P. 


v^  o 
A^^ 


o  > 


O' 


^^^^ 


3^  ^ 


.     -^  v'    si*' 


-^^^^ 


H^xv 


^'^^^^ 


.^^ 


iS^-r^ 


^ 


c 


MARIE    ROSICKÝ 


Bohemian  ■  American 

COOK  BOOK 


TESTED  AND  PRACTICAL  RECIPES 
FOR  AMERICAN  AND  BOHEMIAN  DISHES 


AN  ENGLISH  TRANSLATION 

OF  THE  COOK  BOOK  PUBLISHED  IN  THE 

BOHEMIAN  LANGUAGE  AND  COMPÍLED 

BY 

MARY   ROSICKÝ 


1915 

Printed  and  Published  by  the  National  Printing  Co. 

Omaha,  Nebr. 


4 


A' 


COPYRIGHTED    BY 
ROSE    ROSICKÝ 


AUG  30  1915 

5CI.A41129G 


A  FEW  WORDS  BY  THE  TRANSLATOR. 

J  HAVE  translated  the  cook  book  compiled  by  my 
mother  for  two  reasons:  First,  becanse  we 
continnally  receive  inquiries  for  a  Bohemian 
cook  book  written  in  the  English  langaiage,  from 
the  daughters  of  our  Bohemian  immigrants,  who  were 
born  and  raised  here  and  do  not  read  Bohemian  as  well 
as  their  parents.  Second,  to  serve  those  American 
housewives  who  wish  to  try  foreign  dishes. 

The  Bohemian  fathers  and  mothers  deplore  the  fact 
that  their  children  have  Americanized  so  quickly,  that 
in  the  second  generation  their  mother  tongue  is  half 
obliterated.  We  can  see  their  side  of  it,  those  im- 
migrants who  left  their  fertile  and  beautiful  land  be- 
cause long  years  of  despotism,  class  prejudice,  heavy 
taxation  and  other  unjust  vexations  have  made  it  well- 
nigh  impossible  for  a  poor  peasant  or  laborer  to  better 
himself  there.  The  average  American  can  have  no  con- 
ception of  what  it  means  to  tear  one's  self  up  by  the 
very  roots,  leave  one's  native  land  and  dearest  re- 
latives forever,  start  life  anew  in  a  strange  country, 
and   learn   a  new   language. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  can  see  clearly  the  childrens' 
side  of  the  situation.  They  have  been  born,  raised  and 
educated  in  America,  and  this  country  will  always  be 
their  home.  Their  parents'  land  is  to  them  but  a 
picture  or  a  story.  Among  our  people  in  the  country 
settlements  the  children  talk  and  even  read  and  write 
Bohemian  to  a  greater  extent  than  in  the  cities,  but 
in  any  event  it  is  safe  to  say  that  with  the  third  s'enera- 
tion  the  large  majority  cease  to  be  Bohemians,  except 
in  name. 

Each  country  has  its  special  style  of  cookery,  and  I 
think  that  is  one  way  of  preserving  the  nationality  to 
a  certain  extent  and  for  a  time  at  least,  for  we  all  like 
those  dishes  which  our  mothers  prepared  for  us.  If 
the  daughters  cook  like  the  mothers  did,    and    teach 


4  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

their  daughters  to  do  likewise,  it  will  at  least  be  a  re- 
minder of  our  parents'  native  land. 

As  far  as  the  demand  of  American  housewives  for 
foreign  cookery  books  is  concerned,  that  is  no  doubt 
brought  about  by  the  ever  increasing  custom  of  travel- 
ing abroad,  which  of  course  makes  cosmopolitans  of 
us.  The  average  American,  who  travels  only  in  his 
own  country  and  does  not  live  near  settlements  of 
industrious  and  progressive  foreigners,  generally  has 
about  three  names  for  all  Europeans,  namely:  Dago, 
Dutchman  or  Swede.  Of  the  Slavs  he  usually  knows 
nothing  at  all.  It  is  different  with  the  American  who 
has  been  abroad.  If  he  is  at  all  intellectual  and  observ- 
ing, he  knows  that  there  is  culture  and  crudeness  in 
all  nationalities,  and  that  aside  from  certain  racial 
characteristics,  we  are  all  the  same  human  beings, 
with  the  same  struggles,  sorrows,  hopes,  aspirations 
and  problems.  Perhaps  the  present  war  has  done  more 
to  open  the  minds  of  Americans  to  the  status  of  the 
various  nationalities  composing  Europe,  and  the 
relation  they  bear  to  each  other,  than  anything  else. 
And  when  it  comes  down  to  cooking  itself,  the  real 
cook,  no  matter  what  her  nationality,  is  always  eager 
to  try  something  new.  I  know  that  the  American 
housewife  will  find  many  new  and  tasty  dishes  in  this 
book. 

My  mother,  Mary  Rosický,  was  born  in  Klatovy, 
Bohemia,  December  8th,  1854,  and  died  in  Omaha, 
Nebraska,  October  9th,  1912,  having  come  to  this  coun- 
try when  thirteen  years  of  age.  The  women  in  her 
family  were  noted  for  their  fine  cooking,  so  that 
she  acquired  her  art  through  a  natural  inheritance. 
However,  while  good  cooking  is  in  the  main  an  inborn 
art,  it  can  be  learned  by  perseverance,  patience  and 
diligence. 

ROSE   ROSICKÝ. 
Omaha,  Nebraska,  March  25th,  1915. 


PREFACE. 

^^YC>  BOOK  is  valuable,  if  the  reader  does  not  read 
J\j  it  carefully  and  does  not  grasp  the  spirit  in 
Á\  which  it  is  written.  When  following  directions 
given  in  a  cook  book,  it  is  necessary  that  every- 
thing be  done  exactly  a^  the  recipe  states,  even  though 
some  thing  may  seem  insignificant,  for  very  often  suc- 
cess depends  upon  that  very  insignificant  thing. 

American  cookery  is,  in  many  respects,  more  simple 
than  Bohemian  cookery,  for  in  America  many  appliances 
and  improvements  are  used  which  are  not  known  in 
Bohemia.  Besides  those,  baking  powder  is  used  ex- 
tensively, often  instead  of  yeast,  and  that  is  entirely  un- 
known in  Bohemia.  Among  Bohemians  who  came  here 
from  their  mother  country,  there  are  many  who  think 
that  American  cookery  is  not  as  good  as  Bohemian. 
This  is  probably  owing  to  the  fact  that  many  American 
housewives  like  to  prepare  only  those  dishes  that 
require  the  least  time  and  labor,  but  even  Bohemian 
foods  may  be  poor,  if  proper  care  is  not  given  to  their 
preparation.  That  American  cookery  does  not  always 
appeal  to  those  who  have  grown  up  in  any  European 
country  is  easily  understood,  for  we  usually  like  best 
those  foods  to  which  we  have  been  accustomed  from 
childhood.  We  give  in  this  cook  book  also  some  Ame- 
rican dishes  and  think  the  readers  will  find  that  they 
are  as  good  as  any,  when  properly  made. 

It  will  not  be  amiss  to  give  a  few  hints  in  general, 
regarding  the  kitchen: 

Iron  kettles,  etc.  which  were  used  a  great  deal  for- 
merly and  still  are  used  to  a  certain  extent,  when  new 
should  be  filled  with  water,  to  which  has  been  added 
some  charcoal,  and  this  should  be  kept  boiling  for  a  while. 
Then  we  may  scour  the  kettle  well  and  it  is  ready  for 
use.    Iron  skillets,  griddles,  etc.  should  be  well  greased 


6  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

and  then  the  grease  should  be  burned  or  smoked  off^ 
once  or  twice,  before  they  are  used.  Where  conditions 
permit,  nothing  but  granite  and  ahiminum  ware  should 
be  used. 

If  we  wish  to  use  stone  or  earthen  ware,  it  is  best 
to  fill  new  pieces  with  cold  water  and  let  it  come  slow- 
ly to  the  boiling  point.  In  this  way  we  may  ward  off 
the  cracking  thereof. 

When  washing  greasy  kitchenware,  put  a  little  soda 
into  the  water. 

Vinegar  cruets,  water  bottles  and  bottles  in  general 
may  be  cleansed  with  water  and  small  shot,  tacks  or 
sand. 

Put  two  or  three  03'ster  shells,  thoroughly  cleansed, 
into  your  water  kettle  and  the  sediment  from  the  water 
will  settle  on  them,  instead  of  on  the  inside  of  the 
kettle.. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  the  kitchen  should  be 
as  thoroughly  equipped  as  possible. 

Below  is  a  table  of  measures  and  weights,  whiclj 
may  come  in  handy  to  the  housewife: 

Sixteen  ounces  are  one  pound. 

Four  quarts  or  eight  pints  are  one  gallon. 

Four  pecks  are  one  busliel,  and  a  peck  is  two  gal 
Ions  or  eight  quarts. 

Four  cups  are  one  quart. 

An  ordinary  tumbler  is  half  a  pint. 

Two  heaping  teaspoons  contain  as  much  as  one 
heaping  tablespoon. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar  weighs  one  ounce. 

Two  level  teacups  of  granulated  sugar  weigh  one 
pound. 

Two  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  weigh  one  ounce. 

One  teacup  contains  five  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour. 

Five  teacups. of  sifted  flour  weigh  one  pound. 


BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK.  7 

A  quart  of  sifted  flour  weighs  one  pound. 

A  liberal  tablespoon  of  butter  weighs  one  ounce. 

A  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  weighs  two 
ounces. 

A  teacup  full  of  soft  butter  contains  four  table- 
spoons. 

Two  teacups  of  butter,  well  packed,  weigh  one 
pound. 

Eight  large  or  ten  medium  sized  eggs  weigh  one 
pound. 

In  conclusion  it  may  be  noted  that  inasmuch  as 
a  great  many  of  the  recipes  in  this  book  call  for 
various  condiments  (mace,  cloves,  allspice,  garlic,  cara- 
way seed,  lemon  rind,  anchovies  etc.)  it  is  impossible 
to  give  the  exact  amount,  because  individual  tastes 
vary.  The  housewife  must  use  her  own  judgment, 
and  if  necessary  omit  some  of  them  altogether.  The 
expert  foreign  cook  depends  entirely  on  her  tongue  in 
this  respect,  adding  a  little  of  this,  tasting  the  food, 
then  adding  a  little  of  something  else  and  so  on.  Some 
people  do  not  like  garlic  or  caraway  seed.  These  may 
be  omitted  altogether,  without  spoiling  the  dish,  and 
that  is  true  of  many  of  the  others.  However,  those 
who  do  like  the  various  flavors,  like  to  have  food 
seasoned  that  way. 

In  the  recipes  for  bread,  raised  tarts,  etc.,  the  exact 
amount  of  flour  is  seldom  given.  As  every  cook  knows, 
flours  vary,  and  she  must  be  guided  by  her  experience. 
After  one  or  two  failures  she  can  tell  just  how  much 
flour  to  use. 

Many  recipes  call  for  flour  and  butter  blended 
together,  without  giving  the  exact  amounts  of  each. 
In  this  too  the  housewife  must  be  guided  by  the  taste 
of  her  family.  She  can  use  from  one  tablespoon  of 
butter  to  two  of  flour  to  half  of  each  (a  tablespoon 
of  butter  to  a  tablespoon  of  flour). 

Wherever  the  word    "pepper'^  is  used,    black   or 


8  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN   COOK  BOOK 

white  pepper  is  meant.  In  recipes  calling  for  red  pep- 
per or  paprika,  it  is  so  stated.  A  pinch  or  dash  of 
spices  means  of  course  ground  spices. 

In  recipes  calling  for  wine,  sour  wine  is  used  for 
meats,  gravies,  and  sauces  requiring  sweetening,  in 
all  others  use  sweet  wine. 


Soup. — Polévka. 

The  amount  of  water  used  is  governed  by  the 
amount  of  meat.  A  pound  of  meat  requires  a  quart  of 
water. 

If  you  wish  to  have  good  soup,  place  the  meat  in 
cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer  gently.  If  you  do  not 
care  for  very  strong  soup  and  wish  the  meat  to  have  a 
better  flavor,  you  may  place  it  in  boiling  water. 

Some  cooks  prefer  to  skim  soup,  but  this  is  not  ne- 
cessary, in  fact,  it  will  be  stronger  if  the  scum  be  left 
in  it  and  the  soup  be  strained  before  putting  in  the  rice, 
noodles  or  whatever  you  are  going  to  use. 

Two  quarts  of  soup  is  considered  enough  for  six 
or  eight  people  and  the  average  recipe  is  figured  out 
accordingly. 

Soups  are  divided  into  two  kinds:  meat  soups  and 
Lenteii  soups.  Both  kinds  may  be  clear  or  thick.  Clear, 
thin  soups  are  usually  served  with  croutons,  etc. 

Meat  Soups. — Masité  polévky. 

I.    ORDINARY  BEEF  SOUP. 

Ohi/čejná  čistá  hovězí  polévka. 
Wash  two  pounds  of  beef  in  clear  cold  water  (this 
will  do  for  six  people)  and  pound  lightly  with  a  wooden 
pounder  for  the  purpose.  Place  the  meat  in  two  quarts  of 
cold  water  and  let  it  simmer.  When  the  soup  ceases 
foaming,  add  salt  and  various  vegetables,  usually  the 
more  the  better,  as:  celery  tops  and  roots,  parsley  tops 


SOUPS.  9 

and  roots,  onion,  leek,  kale,  carrots,  tomatoes,  cabba^i>-e, 
cauliflower,  etc.  Needless  to  remark  that  all  the  ye^e- 
tables  should  first  be  carefully  washed.  If  vegetables 
are  scarce,  as  for  instance  in  winter,  a  handful  of  dry 
peas,  a  small  piece  of  garlic,  a  dash  of  caraway  seed,  a 
few  dried  mushrooms,  onions  and  two  tablespoons 
of  canned  tomatoes  will  add  a  good  flavor.  The  cook 
may  use  such  vegetables  as  the  family  likes  and  must 
govern  herself  thereby.  A  good  flavor  is  added  to  soup 
if  we  add  minced  onion  and  beef  liver  fried  in  butter. 
Beef  kidneys  and  bones  also  add  flavor.  After  putting  in 
the  vegetables,  let  the  soup  simmer  very  gently  two  and 
a  half  to  three  hours.  If  the  soup  evaporates  to  any 
extent,  add  boiling  water,  to  keep  up  the  required 
amount,  a  little  at  the  time.  When  the  soup  is  finally 
done,  strain  through  a  sieve  into  another  kettle,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  whatever  you  wish,  accord- 
ing to  the  recipes  that  follow. 

2.    BOUILLON. 

Bouillon. 

Bouillon  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
foregoing,  with  the  exception  that  the  meat  is  cut  into 
cubes,  which  makes  the  soup  stronger.  Bouillon  is 
served  in  cups. 

3.    SAGO  SOUP. 

PoUvl'a  se  sag  em. 

Wash  the  sago  several  times  in  warm  and  finally 
in  hot  water,  tlien  let  it  boil  in  clear  beef  soup  a  few 
minutes.  Before  serving,  add  salt  and  a  dash  of  grated 
mace.  One  tablespoonful  of  sago  is  required  to  a 
person. 

4.    SAGO  SOUP  WITH  YOLKS. 

Ságová  polcvl'a  se  žloutl- ij. 

Wash  the  sago  as  in  the  foregoing  and  place  in  a 
kettle  of  I'lear  soup.  When  the  sago  is  soft,  add  four 
yolks  beaten  in  a  small  quantity  of  warm    soup,    and 


10  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

take  away  from  the  fire  immediately.    If  the  yolks  were 
to  boil,  they  would  curdle. 

5.    BARLEY  SOUP. 

Ohijčejná  l-rupová  'poUvka. 

Wash  thoroughly  half  a  cup  of  pearl  barley,  pour 
over  it  a  cup  of  liot  water,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  boil  it  one  hour  and  a  half, 
being  careful  that  it  does  not  burn  or  dry  out.  When 
the  barley  is  done,  place  it  in  a  tureen,  add  a  little 
minced  parsley  and  chives,  pour  hot  clear  beef  soup 
over  it  and  serve. 

6.    RICE  SOUP. 

Rf/žová  poUvha. 

Pick  over  half  a  cup  of  rice,  wash  in  tepid  water, 
changing  same  several  times,  place  it  in  a  pan,  pour  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  over  it,  add  salt,  ground  mace, 
a  little  piece  of  good  butter  and  let  it  boil  until 
tender.  If  the  water  evaporates,  add  boiling  water. 
The  rice  must  not  burn  or  be  broken.  When  the  rice 
is  done,  turn  it  into  the  tureen,  add  minced  parsley,  a 
pinch  of  saffron  and  the  clear  soup.  You  may  finally 
add  one  egg  beaten  with  a  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

7.    RICE  SOUP  WITH  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Rýžová  polévka  s  hiiřaty. 

Pick  over  a  cup  of  rice  and  wash  thoroughly.  Place 
it  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  over  it  two  or  three  cups  of 
boiling  water,  add  a  piece  of  good  butter,  salt,  and  boil 
the  rice  until  it  is  tender.  Make  soup  of  two  spring 
chickens.  When  done,  take  them  out  and  cut  up  in 
small  pieces  and  place  in  the  tureen.  Strain  the  soup, 
skim  off  all  the  fat,  add  a  little  gTated  nutmeg  and 
minced  parsley  and  pour  all  over  the  rice  and  then  pour 
this  mixture  over  the  chickens  in  the  tureen. 


SOUPS.  11 

8.    CREAM  OF  RICE  SOUP. 

Rýžová  poUvl'a  na  způsob  IrupovJcy. 
Wash  tlioroiiglily  a  cup  of  rice  in  hot  water.  Mix 
two  tablespoons  of  flour  with  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
rice,  then  pour  over  it  strong  beef  soup  (if  possible, 
add  to  the  soup-meat  half  an  old  chicken).  Put  this 
to  boil  and  mix  constantly  until  the  soup  begins  to 
boil.  Then  add  salt,  a  small  piece  of  good  butter  and 
allow  it  to  boil  one  hour,  adding  clear  soup  as  it 
evaporates.  Then  strain  through  a  fine  strainer  and 
place  again  over  the  fire.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  pour 
into  a  tureen,  add  tAVO  yolks  beaten  with  three  table- 
spoons of  cream  and  serve. 

9.    POTATO   SOUP. 

Hovězí  poUvl-a  s  hramhori/. 
Boil  four  peeled  and  quartered    potatoes  in  salted 
water.     When  done,  pour  the  water  off,  place  the  po- 
tatoes in  a  tureen,  pour  clear  seasoned  soup  over  them 
and  serve. 

10.    MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

PoUvl'a  z  čerstvijcli  liulj. 
Clean  six  large  mushrooms  thoroughly,  slice  thin, 
add  minced  parsley,  and  allow  all  to  stew  in  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  then  dust  with  flour  and  stew  a  little 
while  longer.  Then  pour  on  enough  good  clear  soup  to 
make  it  of  the  consistency  of  very  thin  gravy,  add  a 
pinch  of  mace  and  several  tablespoons  of  good  cream, 
allow  it  to  boil  and  pour  over  bread  croutons. 

11.    CAULIFLOWER  SOUP. 

PoUvl'a  z  harfiolu. 
Wash  a  nice  head  of  cauliflower,  separate  into 
pieces  of  the  same  size  and  let  them  boil  in  soup  until 
tender.  Place  a  tablespoon  of  good  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan; when  melted,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  when  it 
bubbles,  add  some  of  the  soup  in  which  the  cauliflower 
has  been  boiling.    Add  a  pinch  of  ground  mace,  two  tea- 


12  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

spoons  of  cream  and  two  beaten  yolks,  mix  well  and 
let  it  boil  a  little.  Place  croutons  and  minced  fried  liver 
in  a  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  this,  add  the  boiled 
cauliflower  and  serve. 

12.   PEA  SOUP. 

Ilracliovcl  polévka. 
To  serve  six  person  soak  a  cup  of  dried  peas  in 
cold  water  over  night.  The  next  day  boil  until 
tender,  then  mash  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Pour  over 
them  good  beef  soup,  add  a  pinch  of  marjoram,  a  little 
ňiinced  parsley,  two  grated  raw  potatoes  and  allow  it 
to  boil.  In  the  meantime,  blend  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  until  a  golden  brown,  add 
to  the  soup  and  pour  all  into  a  tureen  in  which  you 
have  placed  bread  croutons. 

13.    MOCK  PEA   SOUP. 

PoUvl-a  z  těstového  lirachu. 
Beat  together  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
two  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  mace, 
until  the  batter  is  smooth.  Place  lard  or  rendered 
butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  it  is  smoking  hot, 
force  the  batter  into  it  through  a  ricer.  When  it 
is  fried  a  golden  brown,  take  it  out  with  a  skimmer, 
place  in  a  tureen  and  pour  good  clear  soup  over  it. 

14.    NOODLE    SOUP. 

PoUvl'a  s  nudlemi  7ieho  flíčky. 
Place  on  the  molding  board  two  cups  of  flour,  make 
a  well  in  the  center  and  break  into  it  two  eggs.  Add 
a  little  salt  and  with  a  knife  or  fork  work  the  flour 
and  eggs  together  until  you  can  handle  the  dough  with 
your  liands.  Then  work  thoroughly  with  your  hands 
until  the  dough  is  smooth  and  soft  as  velvet,  but  it  must 
not  be  too  stiff  with  flour.  Cut  this  dough  into  three 
pieces  and  after  thoroughly  dusting  your  board  with 
flour,  roll  out  each  piece  as  thin  as  you  can.  Allow 
these  to  dry,  then  cut  into  strips  a  little  over  an  inch 


SOUPS.  13 

wide,  place  one  on  top  of  anotlier  in  a  pile  about  two 
inches  high.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  fine  noodles, 
spread  them  out  over  the  board  and  allow  them  to  dry 
thoroughly.  You  may  also  make  little  squares.  For 
these  the  dough  need  not  be  rolled  as  thin  as  for  the 
noodles.  When  it  is  partially  dry,  fold  it  over  and  cut 
into  pieces  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  square. 

15.  CHICKEN  SOUP  WITH  NOODLES. 

Polévka  se  slepici  a  nudlemi. 
Wash  and  clean  an  old  chicken,  place  in  a  kettle, 
pour  two  quarts  of  cold  water  over  it,  add  salt  and  allow 
it  to  simmer.  Take  off  the  scum  and  w^ien  the  soup  is 
clear,  add  vegetables.  When  the  chicken  is  tender,  take 
the  kettle  from  the  fire,  skim  off  the  fat,  take  the 
chicken  out,  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces,  and  place  them 
in  a  tureen.  Strain  the  soup,  let  it  come  to  a  boiling 
point,  add  noodles  and  boil  five  minutes,  pour  over 
the  chicken  and  serve. 

16.    GOOSE  GIBLET  SOUP. 

PoUvl^a  z  husich  drobečků. 
Wash  thoroughly  the  wings,  giblet,  liver,  heart  and 
neck  of  a  goose,  cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a  kettle, 
pour  over  them  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  add  salt  and 
allow  it  to  simmer.  Skim  off  the  scum  and  when  the  soup 
is  clear,  add  vegetables,  as  for  beef  soup.  When  the 
contents  are  tender,  take  them  out,  strain  the  soup,  add 
a  pinch  of  mace,  and  noodles  made  with  one  egg.  Place 
the  giblet,  liver,  etc.  into  a  tureen  and  pour  the  soup 
over  them.  The  liver  is  more  palatable  if  minced  and 
fried  separatel}^  and  then  added  to  the  soup. 

17.    TRIPE   SOUP. 

Polévka  s  drUkami. 

Thoroughly  clean  and  wash  tripe,  place  in  a  kettle, 

cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  half  an  hour.    Then  take 

it  out,    clean  once  more,  wash  in  cold  water,    place   in 

a  kettle,  pour  cold  water  over  it,  add  salt,  and  allow  it 


14  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

to  boil  until  tender.  Take  it  out,  cut  in  tliin  strips, 
place  them  in  a  kettle,  pour  good  beef  soup  over  them, 
add  minced  parsley,  butter  and  flour  blended  to^etlicr 
until  brown,  a  pinch  each  of  mace  and  marjoram,  a 
clove  of  garlic  mixed  to  a  paste  with  salt.  When  it 
]ias  all  boiled  together  a  few  moments  it  is  ready  to 
serve. 

18.    DOUGH  DROPS  SOUP. 

PoUvl'a  s  l-apcinim. 
Place  four  teaspoons  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  one 
whole  egg,  salt  and  beat  thoroughly.  The  dough  must 
be  thin,  as  for  pancakes.  Drop  with  a  spoon  into  boil- 
ing soup,  stirring  it  with  a  fork  as  you  pour  it  in.  Boil 
about  five  minutes  and  serve. 

19.    GRATED  DOUGH  SOUP. 

PoUvl-a  se  stroulicinJcou. 
Make  dough  as  for  noodles,    except    that  you  add 
more  flour,  so  it  be  very  stiff.  Then  grate  it  on  a  grater, 
dipping  it  in  flour  as  you  go  along.     Allow  the  grated 
dough  to  dry,  then  drop  into  boiling  soup. 

20.    CROUTON   SOUP. 

Polévka  se  sušenijm  hilijm  cJileheni  neh  žemličl-ou. 
Cut  stale  white  bread  into  dice.  Place  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  it  is  melted, 
turn  the  croutons  into  it  and  let  them  fry  a  golden 
brown.  If  the  soup  is  strong  and  rich,  it  will  be  suf- 
ficient to  simply  toast  tlie  dice  in  the  oA^en.  The  clear 
soup  and  croutons  are  served  separately. 

21.    SOUP  WITH  RYE  BREAD. 

Polévka  se  žitným  chlebem. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  rye  bread  and  toast  them  well, 
until  brown.  Then  i:>lace  the  bread  in  a  pan,  pour 
clear  soup  over  it,  add  salt,  pepper,  half  an  onion 
minced  and  fried  in  butter,  a  dash  of  ground  mace  and 
the  same  of  caraway  seed.  Let  all  boil  together  for  a 
few  minutes,   then  add  minced  parsley,   chives   and   a 


I 


SOUPS.  15 

pincli  of  saffron  and  pour  all  into  the  tureen.  Finally 
beat  two  eggs  with  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  cream 
and  add  to  the  soup.  ^ 

22.    MEAT  PUREE. 

PoU'vl-a  se  sekaninou. 

Chop  or  grind  fine  a  cup  of  beef  or  veal,  boiled 
or  roasted  (you  may  use  left-overs  this  way).  Fry  one 
minced  onion  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  the  chopped 
meat  and  let  is  simmer  a  while.  Then  pound  all  to  a 
paste  in  a  mortar.  To  one  quart  of  good  beef  soup  add 
two  slices  of  white  bread  or  three  soda  crackers,  two 
or  three  hard-boiled  yolks  creamed  to  a  paste  and 
finally  the  meat.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly  and 
strain  through  a  sieve.  If  necessary,  add  clear  soup 
and  serve  with  croutons. 

23.  POTATO  PUREE. 

Hovězí  poUvl-a  z  bramborů. 

Boil  three  medium  sized  potatoes,  peel,  cool  and 
grate.  Cut  a  slice  of  white  bread  into  small  dice  and 
fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Add  the  yolks  of  three  hard 
boiled  eggs  to  the  grated  potatoes,  the  fried  bread 
and  mash  smooth.  Place  this  in  a  pan,  pour  one  quart 
of  clear  beef  soup  over  it  and  allow  it  to  boil  half  an 
hour.    Mix  with  clear  soup,  strain  and  serve. 

24.  BARLEY   PUREE. 

Kriqjovl-a. 

Boil  a  cup  of  barley.  When  done,  put  it  in  another 
pan,  add  a  little  piece  of  good  butter  and  mix  well. 
Then  add  two  quarts  of  hot  beef  soup,  strain  and  add 
a  pinch  of  mace.  Beat  six  yolks  with  a  small  quantity 
of  tepid  soup,  add  this  to  the  hot  soup,  take  from  the 
fire  immediately,  beat  with  an  egg  beater  and  serve 
in  cups. 


IG  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

25.    SOUP  WITH  FARINA  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  thnijini  knedííčky  krupičnými. 

Cream  ,^  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  one  Qg^^  and 
one  yolk,  a  teaspoon  of  minced,  chives  and  finally  four 
tablespoons  of  farina.  Allow  the  mixture  to  stand 
ten  minutes,  then  make  balls  the  size  of  English  wal- 
nuts, drop  them  into  the  boiling  soup,  cover  and  boil 
ten  minutes.  Add  minced  parsley,  chives,  a  pinch  of 
saffron  and  serve. 

26.  SOUP  WITH  CALF'S  BRAIN  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  knedlicky  z  mozku. 
Wash  thoroughly  a  calf  or  hog  brain  and  parboil 
in  salted  water.  Skin  it  and  mince  fine  with  parsley, 
add  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  all  together  in  butter. 
Then  put  this  into  a  mortar,  add  a  slice  of  stale  white 
bread  that  has  been  soaked  in  milk,  and  pound  all  to 
a  paste.  Or  else  you  may  cream  together  thoroughly  with 
a  spoon.  Cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  to  it  the 
prepared  brain,  one  whole  egg  and  one  yolk,  some  dry 
bread  crumbs  and  mix  together.  Make  balls  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  Boil  one  to  test  it.  If  it  is  too  soft,  add 
a  little  more  of  the  bread  crumbs.  The  quenelles  are 
boiled  in  the  soup.  Before  serving  add  a  pinch  of  saf- 
fron and  mace. 

27.  SOUP  WITH  CALF'S  LIVER  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  jaternimi  knedlicky. 
Mince  fine  half  a  pound  of  veal  or  beef  liver,  take 
out  all  veins,  skin,  etc.  and  then  mix  well  with  two 
tablespoons  of  beef  marrow  or  butter,  add  a  pinch  of 
marjoram,  grated  lemon  rind,  a  clove  of  garlic  mixed 
to  a  paste  with  salt,  a  pinch  of  mace  and  pepper,  two 
eggs,  salt  and  enough  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  mix- 
ture not  stiff  or  thin.  Always  remember  that  the 
bread  crumbs  swell  in  boiling,  so  that  if  3"ou  put  in  too 
much,  the  quenelles  will  be  hard.  This  is  true  also  of 
farina.    Form  balls  of  this  and  boil  ten  minutes  in  two 


SOUPS.  17 

quarts  of  good  strong  soup.     You  may  use  goose  liver 
in  place  of  the  beef  or  veal. 

28.    SOUP  WITH  VEAL  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  knedlicky  masitými. 
Mince  fine  half  a  pound  of  boiled  or  baked  veal, 
add  three  slices  of  white  bread  soaked  in  milk,  and 
cream  both  to  a  paste.  Cream  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, add  two  eggs  and  one  yolk,  mix  this  with  the 
paste  and  if  the  mixture  should  be  too  thin,  add  bread 
crumbs.  Salt  to  taste.  Make  small  balls,  cover  them 
with  bread  crumbs  and  fry  a  golden  brown.  Place 
them  in  a  tureen,  pour  clear  beef  soup  over  them  and 
serve. 

29.    SOUP  WITH  POTATO  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  knedVwhy  z  bramboru. 
Boil  four  large  mealy  potatoes,  peel  and  grate. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  minced  parsley, 
one  eggy  three  yolks,  salt,  and  cream  again.  Add 
the  grated  potatoes  and  mix  thoroughly.  Make  balls 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
a  golden  brown  in  butter  or  lard.  Place  them  in  a 
tureen,  pour  clear  soup  over  them  and  serve. 

30.  SOUP  WITH  MARROW  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  knedlíčky  z  hovězího  morku. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  beef  marrow  until  it  is 
white,  then  add  two  eggs,  mixing  in  one  at  the  time, 
a  dash  of  salt,  mace  and  grated  lemon  rind.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, add  enough  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  mixture 
firm  enough  to  form  balls.  Boil  one  ball,  to  see  if  it  is 
of  the  right  consistency.  If  too  thin,  add  bread  crumbs. 
Boil  the  balls  ten  minutes  in  beef  soup  and  serve. 

31.   SOUP  WITH  EGG  QUENELLES. 

Polévka  s  knedlíčky  z  vajec. 
Place   two    whites    in    a  cup    and    add    the    same 
quantity  of  cream  or  milk.    Place  a  tablespoon  of  good 

Cook  Book  2 


18  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  it  is  hot,  pour  the  whites 
and  cream  into  it.  Stir  constantly  while  it  is  frying*. 
When  done,  allow  it  to  cool,  add  three  yolks,  a  little 
salt,  nutmeg-  and  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly  and  drop 
with  a  teaspoon  into  clear  boiling  soup.  Allow  the 
balls  to  boil  two  or  three  minutes  and  serve. 

32.  SOUP  WITH  FARINA  COLOMBINES  No.  1. 

Folcvl'ci  s  Irupičnijmi  vandlicl'avii. 
Pour  two  cups  of  clear  soup  into  a  saucepan. 
When  it  begins  to  boil,  add  half  a  cup  of  farina  and 
let  it  boil  until  thick,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  let  it 
cool.  Cream  three  tablespoons  of  good  butter,  add  three 
eggs,  one  at  the  time  and  each  time  add  also  a  third 
of  the  thickened  farina.  Salt  to  taste.  Grease  colom- 
bine  pans,  dust  thoroughly  with  bread  crumbs  and  half- 
fill  with  the  above.  Bake  slowly.  When  the  colombines 
are  baked  thoroughly,  place  them  in  the  soup  tureen, 
add  clear  hot  soup  and  serve.  Colombines  may  also  be 
steamed.  Place  the  pans  containing  the  batter  into  an- 
other pan  with  hot  water  and  let  them  steam  in  this,  in 
a  hot  oven. 

33.  SOUP  WITH  FARINA  COLOMBINES  No.  2. 

Polévl-a  se  svítkem  l-rupičným. 

Beat  two  eggs  five  minutes.  Add  a  pinch  of 
ground  mace  and  the  same  of  salt  and  pepper,  half  a 
cup  of  fine  farina  and  mix  all  together  lightly.  Place 
three  tablespoons  of  lard  into  a  deep  saucepan,  or  half 
butter  and  half  lard.  When  it  is  smoking  hot,  pour  in 
the  mixture  and  fry.  When  one  side  is  fried,  turn  like 
a  pancake  and  fry  the  other.  When  it  is  thoroughly 
done,  turn  out  to  cool,  cut  into  dice,  place  them  in  clear 
boiling  soup  and  let  them  boil  about  five  minutes.  When 
boiled  the  proper  time,  tlie  colombines  will  swell  to  the 
right  consistency,  but  if  boiled  too  long,  they  will  be- 
come hard. 


SOUPS.  19 

34.    SOUP  WITH  CALF'S  BRAIN  COLOMBINES. 

Polévka  s  vandličkami  z  mozku. 
Parboil  a  calf  brain  in  salted  water,  then  clean 
thoroughly.  Place  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoons  of 
butter  and  some  chopped  green  parsle}^  and  fry  the  brain 
in  this  slightly.  Soak  two  slices  of  bread  in  milk,  squeeze 
dry  and  place  in  another  saucepan.  Add  one  cup 
of  milk  and  let  it  boil  down  a  little,  stirring  constant- 
ly, then  put  aside  to  cool.  Cream  one  tablespoon  of 
good  butter,  add  the  boiled  bread,  a  dash  of  salt,  one 
whole  egg  and  two  yolks,  and  then  cream  all  together 
half  an  hour.  Finally  add  the  beaten  (2)  whites. 
Grease  the  colombine  pans,  dust  with  fine  bread  crumbs, 
place  in  each  mould  a  layer  of  the  mixture,  then  a 
layer  of  the  prepared  brain  and  on  top  a  layer  of 
the  mixture.  Steam  this,  as  directed  in  the  preceding- 
recipe.  When  done,  place  the  colombines  in  a  tureen, 
add  clear  beef  soup  and  serve. 

35.  SOUP  WITH  FLOUR  COLOMBINES. 

Polévka  se  svítkem  nioucníjni. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  one  whole  Qgg 
and  two  yolks,  mix  well,  then  add  flour  so  that  the  dough 
will  drop  from  a  spoon,  then  add  the  two  beaten  whites. 
Grease  a  shallow  pan  with  butter,  pour  the  dough  into 
it  and  bake  until  a  golden  brown.  When  done,  turn  out 
to  cool,  and  cut  into  dice  or  croutons.  Pour  good  clear 
soup  over  them  and  serve. 

36.   SOUP  WITH  BEEF  COLOMBINES. 

Polévka  se  svitkem  z  Jiovězílio  masa. 
Grind  fine  boiled  beef,  add  salt,  pepper,  minced 
onion  and  minced  parsley.  Put  some  lard  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  let  the  mixture  simmer  in  it.  In  the  meantime 
cream  a  tables] )oon  of  butter,  add  one  eggj  a  small 
quantity  of  wliite  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  tlien 
squeezed  dry,  and  finally  the  simmered  meat,  which 
must  be  cool.    Mix  all  together  well,  place  in  a  greased 


20  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

pan  and  bake.  When  done,  cut  into  dice,  pour  clear  beef 
soup  on  them  and  serve. 

37.    SOUP   WITH   BREAD   COLOMBINES. 

Polévka  se  svítkem  žemlovým  něho  cldehouým. 

Cut  stale  white  bread  into  dice,  and  soak  in  cream. 
Beat  two  whole  eggs  and  one  yolk,  add  a  pinch 
of  ground  mace,  the  bread,  a  little  salt  and  mix  tho- 
roughly. Grease  a  baking  pan  with  butter,  dust  with 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake 
to  a  golden  brown,  then  turn  out  and  when  cold  cut 
up  into  dice.  Brown  butter  and  flour  together,  add  it 
to  clear  beef  soup  and  serve  it  with  the  croutons, 
separately. 

Lenten  Soups. — Postní  polévky. 

38.    VEGETABLE    STOCK. 

Svařenina  ^e  všech  zelenin  k  postním  polévkám. 
Place  in  a  deep  kettle  two  carrots,  three  onions, 
several  stalks  of  leek  and  a  bunch  of  celery,  all  cut 
into  small  pieces,  add  a  small  piece  of  good  butter 
and  allow  the  vegetables  to  fry  a  golden  brown. 
Then  add  half  a  cup  of  peas,  a  bit  of  fresh 
parsley  and  two  or  three  kohlrabi.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  simmer  gently  two  or  three  hours,  skimming 
the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  done,  take  from  the  fire 
and  allow  the  soup  to  stand  half  an  hour  with  the 
vegetables  in  it  and  then  strain  carefully  into  a  stone 
jar.  Cover  and  stand  in  a  cool  place.  This  stock  is 
suitable  for  all  Lenten  soups  or  gravies. 

39.    FISH   SOUP. 

Ryhi  polévka. 
Take  out  carefully  the  insides  of  two  fish,  one  con- 
taining eggs  and  tlie  other  milt,  being  careful  to  sep- 
arate the  gall  and  intestines,  which  of  course  are  re- 
jected. _  Place  the  fish  in  a  kettle  and  pour  over  them 
vegetable  stock,  as  described  in  recipe  38,  add  minced 


SOUPS.  .  21 

green  parsey,  a  pincli  of  salt  and  boil  slowly  one 
liour.  Then  add  flonr  and  bntter  blended  together  un- 
til a  golden  brown  color,  a  pincli  of  grated  mace  and 
the  same  of  grated  ginger.  Allow  the  soup  to  simmer  a 
short  time  and  then  ponr  into  a  tureen  in  which  you 
have  placed  croutons. 

40.    SOUP  WITH  FISH  QUENELLES. 

Eyhi  poUv'ka  s  hnedliclcy. 
Prepare  stock  as  given  in  No.  38.  Chop  fine  two 
slices  of  fish,  taking  out  all  the  bones  and  skin,  and  then 
pound  to  a  paste  with  three  hard-boiled  yolks.  Cream 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  whole  eggs  and  one 
yolk,  a  pinch  of  mace,  the  same  of  grated  ginger,  a  bit 
of  grated  lemon  rind,  salt,  the  fish  paste,  and  mix  all 
thoroughly.  Then  add  bread  crumbs  sufficient  to  form 
small  balls  and  allow  them  to  boil  in  the  soup.  When 
they  are  done,  thicken  the  soup  with  flour  and  butter 
blended  to  a  light  brown  and  serve. 

41.    TURTLE   SOUP. 

Želví  pole  vie  a. 
The  turtle  should  be  killed  the  evening  before  and 
hung  up,  to  bleed  thoroughly.  The  best  way  to  induce 
a  turtle  to  stick  its  head  out  is  to  place  a  red  hot  iron 
on  its  back.  When  the  head  is  projected,  cut  it  off 
with  a  sharp  knife,  also  the  extremities,  and  hang  the 
turtle  up.  The  extremities  are  placed  for  a  few  mo- 
ments in  boiling  water,  so  they  may  be  skinned  easily, 
and  are  then  put  away  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  morning- 
separate  the  shells  carefuly,  in  order  that  the  gall  bag 
be  not  broken.  The  eggs,  flesh  and  extremities  are  then 
placed  in  cold  water  and  boiled  two  hours.  There 
should  be  once  as  much  water  as  we  wish  to  have 
SOU]).  Skim  carefully.  In  two  liours  add  a  few  slices 
of  ham  and  a  fourtli  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  boil  two 
hours  longer.  Then  add  a  wineglass  of  rice,  the  same 
amount  of  flour  mixed  to  a  paste  with  a  tablespoon  of 


22    •  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

butter,  one  onion  minced  fine,  two  stalks  of  celery, 
green  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  thyme  and  sage,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  cloves  and  allspice,  a  pinch  of  paprika  and 
boil  one  hour  longer. 

42.   MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Napodobená  želví  polévliO. 
Boil  a  small  calf's  head.  When  it  is  done,  pick  off 
the  meat,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  strain  the  stock. 
Blend  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  tablespoons 
of  flour  and  when  it  is  a  golden  brown,  pour  in  two 
quarts  of  the  stock.  Boil  five  minutes,  then  add  the 
meat,  sliced  fresh  or  canned  mushrooms,  a  dash  of 
cloves,  allspice,  and' paprika,  green  parsle}^,  and  boil  five 
minutes  longer.  Then  add  two  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  into 
slices  and  half  a  l^mon  sliced,  and  serve. 

43.    PUREE  OF  PEAS. 

Polévl-a  z  hrachu. 
Boil  a  cup  and  a  half  of  peas  until  tender,  masli 
thoroughly  and  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  stock  (No.  38), 
add  two  cloves  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste  and  boil  a 
little  longer.  Strain,  add  a  pinch  of  marjoram,  mace 
and  ginger,  butter  and  flour  blended  until  brown,  and 
boil  a  while  longer,  then  pour  over  bread  croutons. 

44.    PUREE   OF   LENTILS. 

PolévJíU  čočková. 
Lentil  soup  is  made  as  the  foregoing,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  adding  a  pinch  of  ground  allspice.     Instead 
of  croutons,  thin  slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter  are  used. 

45.    BEAN    SOUP. 

Fazolová  polévl-a. 

Boil  small  white  beans  until  tender,  then  force 
through  a  strainer.  Blend  butter  and  flour  to  a  light 
brown,  add  vegetable  stock,  the  beans,  salt,  spices, 
a  pinch  of  marjoram  and  a  clove  of  garlic  mashed  to  a 
paste  with  salt. 


SOUPS.  23 

46.    VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

Polévlai  ze  zelcniKij. 
Chop  fine  the  following  vegetables:  three  carrots, 
four  onions,  four  small  potatoes,  two  cups  of  cabbage, 
one  tomato  and  a  handful  of  green  peas.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  and  cover  with  just  enough  water  to  stew. 
When  the  vegetables  are  tender,  add  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  the  right  amount  of  soup  and  simmer 
fifteen  .minutes.  Then  add  two  cups  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  two  beaten  eggs.  Finally  add  a 
little  flour,  a  pinch  of  soda  and  boil  a  few  minutes 
longer. 

47.    GARLIC   SOUP. 

Old:  rop. 
Cut  rye  bread  in  thin  slices  and  fry  in  butter.  Mash 
three  cloves  of  garlic  to  a  paste  with  butter  and  salt, 
place  in  boiling  water  and  let  it  simmer  a  while,  then 
pour  over  the  bread.  You  may  use  onion  instead  of 
garlic.  Garlic  soup  is  considered  a  preventive  of 
disease. 

48.  CABBAGE  SOUP  No.  1. 

Zelnice  čili  coiiracka. 
Place  in  a  kettle  a  quart  of  water  in  which  cabbage 
has  been  boiled,  add  a  pint  of  sour-kraut,  a  quart  of 
water,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  a  while.  Beat  six  yolks 
or  three  whole  eggs  with  a  cup  of  good  cream  and  a 
piece  of  butter,  pour  this  into  the  soup,  beat  it  in  tho- 
roughly and  serve.  If  you  like  a  thick  soup,  you  can 
add  flour  to  the  ^gg^  and  cream. 

49.  CABBAGE   SOUP   No.   2. 

Zelná  polévl-a  na  jiný  způsob. 
Allow  a  cup  of  sour-kraut  to  a  quart  and  half  of 
water  and  boil  gently  fifteen  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time mix  a  cup  of  sour  cream  with  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  add  to  the  soup,  also  salt.  Then  break  into  the 
soup,  five  or  six  eggs,  one  at  the  time,  beating  them  in, 
boil  three  minutes  longer  and  serve. 


24  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

50.  BEER   SOUP   No.   1. 

Pivní  polévha. 
Boil  one  quart  of  beer  with  one  quart  of  water.  When 
it  begins  to  boil,  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoon of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Beat 
three  yolks  with  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  add  to  the 
boiling  soup,  beat  it  in  thoroughly,  so  it  will  not  curdle 
and  serve  when  it  begins  to  bubble. 

51.  BEER   SOUP   No.   2. 

Pivní  polévha  na  jiný  způsob. 
Boil  equal  quantities  of  beer  and  milk,  each  sep- 
arately. Add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  the  beer,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  to  the  milk.  When  both  have  begun  to 
boil,  pour  the  milk  into  the  beer  carefully,  to  prevent 
curdling.  Then  beat  two  or  three  eggs  (according  to 
the  amount  of  soup)  with  a  little  water,  and  add  to  the 
boiling  soup.  Beat  thoroughly,  so  the  eggs  will  not 
curdle. 

52.  BEER  SOUP  WITH  RYE  BREAD. 

Polévka  pivní  s  clilebem. 
Cut  two  or  three  slices  of  rye  bread  into  dice,  place 
in  a  kettle,  add  a  quart  of  water  and  a  quart  of  beer,  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  caraway  seed,  a  clove  of  garlic  mashed 
to  a  paste  with  butter,  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Beat  four 
yolks  with  a  cup  of  cream  and  add  to  the  boiling  soup, 
beating  it  thoroughly,  to  prevent  curdling. 

53.    WINE  SOUP. 

Polevl'a  z  vína. 
Boil  equal  amounts  of  water  and  white  wine,  add 
sugar  to  taste,  a  stick  of  whole  cinnamon,  a  slice  of  le- 
mon rind,  skimming  until  clear.  Beat  four  yolks  with 
two  tablespoons  of  cream,  add  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  cold 
wine,  and  salt,  mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  the  boil- 
ing wine  and  water,  w^hicli  has  previously  been  strained. 
Beat  all  together  thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil  any  more. 
Serve  in  cups. 


SOUPS.  25 

54.    POTATO    SOUP. 

PoUvlca  hramhorovd. 
Fry  minced  onion,  parsley  and  marjoram  in  butter 
to  a  golden  brown,  then  add  sliced  boiled  potatoes, 
pour  over  all  stock  No.  38  and  boil  a  while.  Blend  but- 
ter and  flour  together  until  a  light  brown,  add  to  the 
soup  with  a  dash  of  grated  ginger.  Boil  a  little  longer, 
strain  and  serve. 

55.  POTATO  SOUP  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

PoUvlca  hramhorovd  s  lioiihami. 
Peel  and  quarter  four  large  potatoes,  place  them  in 
two  quarts  of  cold  water  and  boil.  Add  salt,  celery  and 
fresh  or  dried  mushrooms.  When  the  potatoes  are  ten- 
der, take  out  the  celery.  Blend  butter  and  flour  to  a 
light  brown  (two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  of  flour) 
and  thicken  the  soup  with  this.  Mash  a  clove  of  gar- 
lic w^ith  salt,  add  it  and  a  pinch  of  marjoram  to  the 
soup,  and  serve. 

56.  BARLEY  SOUP  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

PoUvl-a  Ivrwpková  se  sušenými  houhami. 
Boil  a  small  cup  of  pearl  barley  in  salted  water 
with  a  small  i3Íece  of  butter.  In  another  saucepan 
boil  three  handfuls  of  dried  mushrooms,  then  pour  off 
the  water  and  mince  them  fine  with  a  little  green  par- 
sley. Add  stock  No.  38  and  the  liquor  from  the  mush- 
rooms, the  barley,  a  pinch  each  of  salt,  pepper  and 
grated  ginger,  butter  and  flour  blended  light  brown. 
Allow  it  to  boil  a  minute  or  two  and  serve. 

57.    WHEAT  BREAD  SOUP. 

PoUvlca  žemlová  (panadlová). 
Boil  four  or  six  slices  of  white  bread  in  salted  wa- 
ter fifteen  minutes.  Beat  three  eggs  with  a  cup  of  cream, 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  pour  into  the  boiling 
bread  soup.    Add  a  pinch  of  mace  and  serve. 


26  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

58.    SWEET  MILK  SOUP. 

í^l(idl-á   jjolérl-d  z   iniéíca. 

Allow  a  (|uart  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk  to  come  to 
the  boiling  point,  acid  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Beat  three  yolks  with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  a 
lump  of  sngar  which  3^ou  have  rubbed  on  a  lemon,  to 
get  the  flavor  of  the  rind,  and  pour  all  into  the  hot 
milk,  beating  it  in  well.  Cut  white  bread  into  dice, 
place  on  a  pie  plate  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 
Toast  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  with  the  soup,  separately. 

59.    MILK  SOUP  WITH  RICE. 

Mléčná  poJcvhi  s  rfjží. 
Wash  half  a  cup  of  rice  in  several  hot  waters,  place 
in  a  saucepan  and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  hot  water, 
add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  mace,  cover  and 
boil.  When  the  water  has  nearly  evaporated  add  two 
quarts  of  milk,  salt  and  when  it  comes  to  boil,  beat  in 
well  one  beaten  yolk  and  serve. 

60.    MILK  NOODLE  SOUP. 

Mléčná  polevil  a  s  nudlemi  a  flíčky. 
Allow  two  quarts  of  milk  to  come  to  the    boilins; 
point.     When  it  begins  to  bubble,    add  noodles   (made 
with  one  egg),  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.    Boil  a 
moment  or  two  and  serve. 

61.    TOMATO   SOUP. 

Polévl-a   z   rajsJiijcJt   jal>líč('l-. 

Take  one  dozen  small  ripe  tomatoes,  or  a  three 
pound  can  of  same,  add  one  quart  of  water  and  an 
onion.  Boil  half  an  hour,  force  through  a  strainer  into 
another  kettle,  add'  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  baking 
soda,  two  cups  of  milk  which  has  been  thickened  with 
a  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  allow  to  come  to  the  boiling 
point.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  add  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  the 
soup  should  be  too  thick,  thin  with  hot  water  or  milk. 


SOUPS.  27 

62.    OYSTER  SOUP. 

is t lico vcl  pole V ka . 
Allow  a  quart  of  milk  to  come  to  the  boiling-  point. 
When  it  begins  to  boil,  add  a  quart  of  oysters,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  take  away  from 
the  fire  the  minute  the  oysters  begin  to  curl  around 
the  edges.    Serve  with  oj^ster  crackers. 

63.    OYSTER   BISQUE. 

Polévka  ze  sekaníjck  líatřic. 
Chop  fine  one  pint  of  oysters.  Allow  a  quart  of 
milk  to  come  to  the  boiling  point.  When  it  begins  to 
bubble,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter  creamed  with  half 
a  tablespoon  of  flour,  the  chopped  oysters,  salt  and 
pepper.  Ser^'e  the  moment  the  soup  comes  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  otherwise  the  oysters  will  be  hard. 

64.  BROWN  SOUP. 

Pražená  polévka. 
•    Boil  about  a  tablespoon  of  caraway  seed  in  salted 
water.     Blend  butter  and  flour  until  brown,  add  to  it 
the  water  which  has  been  strained  and  allow  it  to  boil  a 
little  longer.     Pour  over  rye  bread  croutons. 

65.  FARINA  SOUP. 

Krupic  lid  polévka. 

Place  in  the  kettle  a  tablespoon  of  caraway  seed,  a 
l)it  of  parsley,  celery,  and  salt.  Pour  over  this  boiliuii' 
water  and  allow  it  to  boil  a  while,  then  strain,  and 
when  the  strained  liquor  has  again  come  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  half  a  cup  of  farina.  Stir  occasionally,  so  it 
will  not  become  lum])y,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  beat 
one  or  two  eggs  with  two  tal)les])oons  of  cream,  add  to 
it  a  tables])oon  of  butter,  a  ])incli  of  mace  and  ginger, 
and  beat  this  thoroughly  into  the  soup.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 


28  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

66.    FRESH  MUSHROOM  SOUP. 

PoUvJca  z  čerstvýclb  hub. 
Clean  and  slice  several  fresli  mnslirooms,  stew 
them  in  a  little  butter,  adding  salt,  caraway  seed  and 
minced  parsley.  When  they  have  become  partially 
dry,  add  as  much  water  as  you  wish  to  have  soup.  This 
water  must  be  boiling  and  must  have  been  thickened 
with  flour  and  butter  browned  together.  Boil  a  while 
longer,  then  pour  over  croutons. 

67.    BREAD  SPONGE  SOUP. 

Kvasová  poUvJca. 
Prepare  the  sponge  the  evening  before,  using  foui 
or  five  tablespoons  of  rye  flour.  It  is  best  to  place  it 
in  a  small  stone  jar  and  cover  with  a  cloth.  Put  it  in 
a  warm  place,  in  order  that  the  sponge  may  sour  thor- 
oughly. When  you  are  ready  to  make  the  soup,  have 
on  hand  as  much  boiling  water  as  you  wish  soup,  proper- 
ly salted,  and  pour  the  sponge  into  it  with  one  hand, 
mixing  it  well  with  the  other.  When  it  has  boiled  up  a 
moment  or  two,  take  away  from  the  fire.  It  should  be 
as  thick  as  a  thin  gravy.  When  you  have  put  it  on 
the  back  of  ther  stove,  place  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  when  it  is  hot,  fry  minced  onion  in  it, 
then  two  or  three  eggs,  stirring  constantly,  as  for 
scrambled  eggs.  Add  these  to  the  soup,  with  three  or 
four  tablespoons  of  sour  cream  and  serve. 

Sauces  for  Beéf . — Omáčky  k  hovězímu  masu. 

68.    TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Omáčka  z  rajshijcli  jahlíčel:. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  two  large  or  four  small  to- 
matoes, or  half  the  contents  of  a  three  pound  can.  The 
fresh  tomatoes  should  be  cut  up.  Add  half  an  onion, 
minced,  whole  pepper,  allspice,  one  clove,  and  a  piece 
of  lemon  rind.  Stew  all  in  a  little  butter,  about  fifteen 
minutes.    Then  pour  into  it  two  cups  of  good  beef  soup 


SAUCES  FOR  BEEF.  29 

and  boil  fifteen  minutes  more.  Masli  tliorougiily  and 
force  tlirougli  a  strainer,  add  vinegar  and  sugar  to  taste, 
butter  and  flour  browned  together,  boil  a  few  mo- 
ments and  serve. 

69.    DILL    SAUCE    No.    1. 

Omáčka  koprová. 

Blend  butter  and  flour,  but  do  not  let  it  get  brown. 
Mix  this  with  as  much  soup  as  you  wish  to  have  gravy. 
When  smooth,  add  vinegar  to  taste  and  boil.  Before 
serving,  add  fresh  dill  minced  fine  and  several  table- 
spoons of  good  sour  cream.  If  you  do  not  have  sour 
cream,  you  may  use  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  to  which 
you  have  added  a  little  vinegar. 

70.    DILL   SAUCE   No.    2. 

Jiná  koprová  omáčka. 
■  Mix  together  four  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  half  a 
teaspoon  of  flour  and  a  little  minced  fresh  dill,  then 
add  one  egg  and  mix  until  smooth.  Add  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream.  Boil  over*  a  quick  fire,  stirring  constantly  and 
when  it  is  done,  add  salt,  and  if  you  like,  a  little  sugar. 

71.    PICKLE    SAUCE. 

Omáčka  z  naložené  okurky. 
Cut  in  thin  slices  one  dill  pickle,  pour  over  it  beef 
soup  and  a  little  good  vinegar,  minced  green  dill,  and 
boil.  When  it  has  boiled  a  while,  add  butter  and  flour 
browned  together,  beating  it  in  thoroughly  and  boil  a 
few  moments  longer. 

72.    ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  sardelová.  ^ 
Wash  two  anchovies  in  cold  water,  pick  out  the 
bones  and  rub  tlie  fisli  to  a  paste  with  a  piece  of  good 
butter.  Pour  soup  over  this  and  let  it  boil  a  while, 
then  add  butter  and  flour  browned  togetlier,  beating- 
it  in  well,  and  serve.  If  you  wish,  you  may  add  a  small 
piece  of  lemon  rind. 


30  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

73.  ONION  SAUCE. 

Bílá  cihulová  otnáčka. 
Mince  fine  one  onion,  stew  it  in  butter  until  ten- 
der, but  do  not  brown,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  mix 
thoroughly,    add  beef  soup  and  boil  half  an  hour.     If 
you  like,  you  may  add  a  little  vinegar. 

74.  CAPER   SAUCE. 

OináčJi-a  s   kaparami. 
Blend  butter  and  flour  until  brown,  add  soup  and 
boil  a  while,  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  capers  and  lemon 
juice  to  taste,  and  serve. 

75.  DRIED    MUSHROOM    SAUCE. 

Oináčl-a  ze  suciti/cJi  Jtuh. 
Wash  dried  mushrooms,  pour  beef  soup  over  them 
and  stew  until  tender,  then  strain,  mince  the  mushrooms 
fine,  pour  over  them  the  strained  liquor,  add  butter 
and  flour  blended  together  until  brown,  a  pinch  of 
mace,  boil  a  little  longer  and  serve.  If  you  wish,  you 
may  add  a  little  vinegar. 

76.  FRESH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

Ouiáčlca  z  čc  I'd  ví/ cli  hub. 
Thoroughly  wash  and  slice  fresh  mushrooms  and 
stew  them  fifteen  minutes  in  beef  soup.  Then  add 
flour  and  butter  blended  together  until  brown,  or  sour 
cream  thickened  with  flour,  a  i^incli  of  grated  mace, 
boil  a  while  lono-er  and  serve. 


'&' 


77.    COLD  HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

bHudenf/  khn  s  octe  in. 

To  grated  horseradish  add  a  teasi)oon  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  grated  a])ph%  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  a  tea- 
spoon of  beef  soup  and  enough  vinegar  to  make  it  the 
proper  consistency. 


SAUCES  FOR  BEEF.  31 

78.    WHITE  HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

Křen  siHciauovf/. 
Cream  a  little  butter  and  flour  together,  add  half 
a  dozen  blanched  almonds  ponnded  to  a  paste,  half  a 
teaspoon  of  sngar,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  warm  cream,  mix 
all  together  well  and  allow  it  to  boil  a  few  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  thicken,  add 
grated  horseradish  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  mixing  it  well, 
and  serve. 

79.    PLAIN  HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

Křen  polévl^ový. 
Cream  together  a  little  butter  and  flour,  add  warm 
beef  soup,  mix  until  smooth  and  boil  a  while,  then  add 
grated  horseradish  and  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  grated 
mace. 

80.    GARLIC  SAUCE. 

On) áčka   česneková. 

Blend  butter  and  flour  until  brown,  add  beef  soup, 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  let  it  boil  a  bit.    Then  add  two  cloves' 
of  garlic  pounded  to  a  paste  with  a  little  butter,  and,  if 
you  like,  a  pinch  of  marjoram,  and  serve  immediately. 

81.    MUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Oni á čka   li ořčicová. 

Blend  butter  and  flour  until  brown,  add  soup,  a 
tablespoon  of  dried  mustard  and  lemon  juice  to  taste. 
Beat  one  yolk  with  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  cream, 
add  to  the  sauce  and  serve. 

82.  CELERY  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  celerová. 

Blend  butter  and  flour  until  brown,  add  two  cups 
of  beef  soup,  salt  and  pepper.  When  it  has  boiled  a 
while,  grate  half  a  celery  root  into  it,  boil  a  little 
longer  and  serve. 


32  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

83.  LEMON   SAUCE. 

Omáčka  citrónová. 
Cream  butter  and  flour  together,  pour  into  it  beef 
soup,  mixing  it  until  smooth;  add  two  beaten  yolks, 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind. 
Stir  constantly  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  allow  it 
to  boil. 

84.  BREAD  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  chlebová. 
Mince  fine  one  onion  and  boil  it  in  as  much  milk 
as  you  want  sauce.  When  the  onion  is  done,  strain  the 
sauce  into  one  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs  and  allow 
it  to  stand  half  an  hour.  Then  place  this  in  a  saucepan, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  when  it  begins  to  bubble  serve.  If  too  thick,  thin 
with  a  little  hot  water. 

85.    DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  máslová. 
Cream,  four  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Pour  two  cups  of  water  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  the  butter  and  flour, 
stirring  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  bubble,  add  salt, 
pepper,  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

86.  OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  ústřicová. 
Chop  fine  one  pint  of  oysters  and  stew  in  their 
liquor  five  minutes.  To  one  cup  of  boiling  milk  add  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  creamed  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
stirring  constantly.  When  this  is  done,  add  the  oysters, 
two  beaten  yolks,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

87.  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  zapražená. 
Brown  two  tablespoons    of    butter    with    two    table- 
spoons   of   flour.     Add    two    cups  of  beef  soup,  boil  a 
while  and  strain.     This  sauce  may  be  served  this  way, 
or  may  be  used  as  a  foundation  for  other  sauces. 


SAUCES  FOR  BEEF.  ,         33 

88.    YELLOW   ONION   SAUCE. 

Omáčka  žlutá  cibulová. 
Mince  fine  half  an  onion,  j)our  over  it  beef  soup  and 
let  it  simmer  a  while.  Place  in  another  saucepan  two 
slices  of  bread  that  have  been  soaked  in  milk  and 
squeezed  dry,  add  a  piece  of  good  butter,  a  pinch  of  saf- 
fron, mix  together  thoroughly,  pour  over  it  the  onion 
sauce,  mix  until  smooth  and  boil  a  while  longer.  Final- 
ly add  butter  and  flour  browned  together,  a  pinch  of 
caraway  seed  and  boil  a  few  moments  longer.  By  sub- 
stituting garlic  for  onion,  you  can  prepare  garlic  sauce 
in  the  same  way. 

89.    POTATO  SAUCE. 

OmáčJca  hrami) orová. 
Stew  half  a  minced  onion  in  butter    or   lard,     add 
three  large  boiled  and  grated  potatoes,  as  much  soup  as 
you  wish  sauce,  a  little  vinegar  and  salt  to  taste,  boil 
half  an  hour,  strain  and  serve. 

90.    CHIVE    SAUCE. 

Omáčka  pažitková. 
Stew  minced  chives  in  a  little  butter,  add  soup,  salt, 
pepper,  a  pinch  of  grated  mace,  butter  and  flour  blend- 
ed until  brown,  and  boil  a  while.  If  you  wish,  you 
may  add  one  or  two  yolks  beaten  with  half  a  cup  of 
cream. 

91.  PARSLEY  SAUCE. 
Omáčka  petrželová. 
Wash  thoroughly  several  parsley  roots,  cut  in  very 
thin  slices,  add  minced  green  parsley  and  about  half  a 
cup  of  fried  bread  crumbs.  Pour  over  all  beef  sou]:),  let 
it  boil,  adding  salt  and  pepper  and  before  serving,  add 
a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  cream. 

92.    WINE   SAUCE. 

Omáčka  vinná. 
Mince  fine  about  a  cup  of  parsley,    add  three  yolks 
and    cream    together    well.     Then    add  as  much  tepid 

Cook  Book  3 


34  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

wine  as  you  wish  to  liave  sauce,  then  mace,  pepper,  nut- 
meg and  ginger,  a  pinch  of  each.  Simmer  slowly  about 
five   minutes,   stirring   constantly. 

93.    FRENCH  MUSTARD. 

Hořčice  h  masu. 
Slice  a  large  onion  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  vinegar 
and  allow  it  to  stand  two  or  three  days.  Pour  off  this 
vinegar,  add  to  it  a  teaspoon  of  pepper,  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar  and  enough  dry 
mustard  to  make  it  sufficiently  thick.  The  dry  mustard 
must  of  course  be  first  mixed  with  vinegar,  until 
smooth.  Place  on  the  stove,  stirring  constantly  and 
remove  when  it  begins  to  bubble.     This  is  served   cold. 

94.  CATSUP    No.    1. 

Kc čap,  čilí  studená  omáčl-a  z  rajslých  jahlíčel'. 
To  a  gallon  of  boiled  and  mashed  tomatoes  add 
three  onions  grated  or  finely  minced,  four  tablespoons 
of  salt,  five  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar.  When  this 
has  boiled  together  until  tender,  strain  and  to  the 
strained  mass  add  four  tablespoons  of  dried  mustard, 
eight  tablespoons  of  black  ground  pepper,  two  table- 
spoons of  ground  cinnamon,  two  teaspoons  of  ground 
cloves,  a  teaspoon  of  paprika,  one  grated  nutmeg,  and 
three  and  a  half  cups  of  vinegar.  Allow  this  to  simmer 
slowly  until  thick,  stirring  now  and  then,  so  it  will  not 
burn.     Seal  in  bottles  while  hot. 

95.  CATSUP    No.    2. 

Kečap  na  jiný  způsoJ). 
Pour  boiling  water  over  half  a  bushel  of  tomatoes, 
peel  and  place  in  a  granite  or  enameled  kettle  to  boil. 
When  soft,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  place  on  the  fire 
again,  add  six  medium-sized  onions  and  three  green 
peppers  from  which  the  seeds  have  been  taken.  Boil 
until  thick  and  strain  once  more,  then  add  two  cups 
of  cider  vinegar,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of 
salt,  one  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of 


BEEF.  35 

ground  allspice,  a  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg  and  half 
a  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves.  Boil  ten  minutes  more 
and  seal  while  hot. 

Beef. — Hovězí  maso. 

96.    BOILED  BEEF. 

Vařené  hovězí  maso. 

As  every  cook  knows,  the  meat  from  different  parts 
of  the  animal  varies.  The  rump  is  best  to  use  for  boiled 
beef,  but  is  must  not  be  too  fat.  The  brisket  and  flank 
do  not  have  a  good  flavor  and  are  suitable  only  for 
soup.  As  has  already  been  stated,  boiled  beef  tastes 
best  when  placed  in  boiling  water,  whereas  if  your  aim 
is  to  get  good  soup  only,  the  meat  is  placed  in  cold  wa- 
ter. Beef,  and  in  fact  all  meat,  is  more  tender  if  not 
freshly  killed.  The  meat  sold  by  the  packing  houses  is 
generally  from  three  to  six  months  old,  it  being  kept  in 
cold  storage  that  long,  before  being  put  on  the  market. 
Such  meat  is  very  tender.  ^  The  cook  must  use  a  little 
judgment  in  boiling  beef.  If  the  meat  is  from  a  young 
animal,  a  two  pound  piece  may  be  boiled  an  hour  and  a 
half.  If  from  an  old  animal,  it  will  take  longer.  The 
meat  must  be  boiled  so  long  until  it  is  easily  pierced 
with  a  fork.  If  boiled  too  long,  it  crumbles  and  loses  fla- 
vor. When  putting  the  meat  to  boil,  cover  well  and 
when  it  has  come  to  a  boil,  let  it  simmer  gently.  If 
boiled  rapidly,  it  will  be  tough.  Boiled  beef  is  cut  into 
small  pieces  and  usually  served  with  a  sauce. 

97.    STEWED    BEEF   No.    1. 

Dušené  hovézí. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  minced 
bacon  and  two  sliced  onions.  When  it  begins  to  brown, 
add  a  piece  of  chuck  steak  well  pounded  and  brown  on 
both  sides  over  a  quick  fire.  Then  add  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  salt  and  pepper,  a  clove  of  garlic  jDounded  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  salt,  cover  and  simmer  over  a  slow 


36  BOHEMIAN- AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

fire.  Be  careful  that  it  does  not  burn,  and  add  a  little 
liot  water  now  and  then,  if  necessary.  A  piece  of  youni^ 
beef  will  be  tender  in  two  hours.  When  done,  thicken 
the  sauce  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with 
a  little  water,  pour  over  the  meat  and  serve.  • 

98.    STEWED   BEEF    No.   2. 

Dušené  hovězí  maso  na  jiný  způsob. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  lard,  one  sliced  onion, 
a  bay  leaf,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind  and  one  clove.  Pound 
and  salt  two  pounds  of  beef,  add  it  to  the  fore^oin^, 
stew  a  while,  dust  with  flour  and  stew  a  little  longer, 
then  add  beef  soup  and  a  little  wine  and  stew  until  the 
meat  is  tender.  Before  serving,  sprinkle  with  ^"rated 
lemon  rind. 

99.    STEWED  BEEF    No.  3. 

Dušené  hovězí  maso  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Pound  well  two  pounds  of  nice  beef,  place  in  a 
crock,  pour  vinegar  over  it  and  allow  it  to  stand 
thus  twenty-four  hours.  •  When  you  are  ready  to  pre- 
pare the  meat,  interlard  with  bacon,  place  it  in  the 
saucepan  or  kettle,  add  salt,  vinegar,  a  little  beef  soup, 
one  sliced  onion,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  bay  leaf,  several 
whole  peppers,  allspice,  cloves.  Cover  and  simmer  slow- 
ly. In  another  saucepan  place  a  tablespoon  of  butter; 
when  it  is  hot,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  of  sugar 
and  blend  together  until  brown.  Add  slowly  two  cups 
of  hot  soup,  or  hot  water,  and  the  liquor  from  the  meat, 
having  skimmed  off  the  grease,  boil  it  fifteen  minutes, 
until  it  forms  a  thick,  brown,  slightly  sour  gravy.  Skim 
off  the  fat,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat  and  let  it 
simmer  thus  a  little  longer. 

100.    BEEF  ROLLS. 

Dušené  hovězí  závitky. 
Pound  thoroughly  four  pounds  of  nice  beef,  (rump 
is  best)  cut  in  slices  an  inch  thick,  pound  again,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  ground  allspice  and  mace,    spread    on    each 


BEEF.  37 

slice  of  meat  a  very  tliin  slice  of  bacon,  roll  up  and 
fasten  with  a  toothpick.  Dip  each  roll  in  flour.  Heat 
a  piece  of  butter  in  a  skillet,  i^lace  the  rolls  therein,  co- 
ver and  fry  about  ten  minutes  over  a  medium  fire,  turn- 
ing- them  once  during  this  time.  Then  pour  in  from  one 
side  enough  boiling  water  to  half  cover  the  rolls,  be- 
ing careful  however,  not  to  wet  them  from  the  top.  Co- 
ver closely  and  stew  the  rolls  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire. 
When  done,  take  out  the  toothpicks,  arrange  the  rolls 
on  a  platter,  place  fried  potatoes  around  them  and 
pour  the  gravy  over  all. 

101.    BOILED   BEEF   ROLLS. 

Hovězí  závithij  z  vahnclio  masa. 
Trim  a  joound  and  a  half  of  boiled  beef,  takini>'  out 
all  the  fat,  gristle,  etc.  and  mince  the  meat  fine.  Blend 
butter  and  flour  until  a  light  brown,  add  enough  beef 
soup  to  make  a  thick  gravy  and  let  it  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Cream  together  a  piece  of 
butter  with  three  yolks,  add  this  to  the  soup  and  beat 
all  together  well.  Now  add  the  minced  meat,  a  table- 
spoon of  minced  parsley,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  salt  and 
mix  thoroughly.  When  cold,  sprinkle  a  molding  board 
with  rolled  crackers  or  bread  crumbs,  divide  the 
mixture  into  sixteen  parts,  place  them  on  the  board, 
roll  into  squares,  sprinkle  each  square  with  more 
bread  crumbs  and  roll.  Beat  three  whites,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  water  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Dip  each  roll  in  this  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  smoking  fat  (in  a  frying  basket)  un- 
til golden  brown,  take  out,  dust  with  a  little  salt,  place 
on  a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

102.    BEEF    TENDERLOIN    No.    1. 

Svíčková  pečeně. 
The  proper  cut  for  this  dish  is  not  always  as  easily 
obtainable  here  as  in  Bohemia.     It  must  be  the  tender- 
loin, the  portion  from  which  porterhouse  steak  is  cut, 


38  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

and  as  porterhouse  steak  is  used  in  this  country  so 
much,  the  butcher  rarely  has  any  beef  tenderloin  on 
hand.  However,  if  you  wish  to  prepare  this  dish  and 
can  obtain  the  proper  cut,  trim  it,  interlard  thickly  with 
bacon,  salt  and  place  in  a  crock.  Place  in  a  saucepan  one 
sliced  onion,  half  of  a  whole  ginger,  several  whole  pep- 
pers and  allspice,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  two 
cups  of  good  vinegar  and  the  same  of  water,  and  boil  all 
together  half  an  hour.  Pour  this  over  the  prepared  meat, 
allow  it  to  stand  tlms  two  days,  turning  it  every  day. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  in  butter,  basting  with  sour  cream. 

103.    BEEF    TENDERLOIN   No.    2. 

HovGzi  na  způsob  svicImvc. 
Wash  four  pounds  of  meat  without  any  bones,  trim 
off  the  fat,  gristle,  etc.  and  interlard  with  one  pound  of 
bacon  cut  into  strips.  Place  in  the  pan  one  large  onioii 
sliced,  several  whole  allspice,  several  whole  peppers,  a 
piece  of  ginger,  two  bay  leaves.  Place  the  meat  in  this, 
salt,  dust  with  flour  and  add  two  cups  of  water.  Roast 
in  the  oven,  basting  frequently.  When  done,  cut  the 
meat  into  neat  pieces,  add  to  the  liquor  a  little  le- 
mon juice  and  grated  lemon  rind,  and  if  you  like  it, 
a  little  sugar.  Strain  and  pour  over  the  meat,  or  serve 
in  a  separate  dish. 

104.    ROAST  BEEF,  BOHEMIAN  STYLE. 

Ohyčcjná  Itovczi  pcceiu'. 
Wash  a  rib  roast,  salt,  stick  whole  ginger  and 
cloves  of  garlic  here  and  there  info  the  meat,  place  in  a 
baking  pan,  add  several  small  onions  into  each  of  which 
you  have  stuck  a  clove,  several  bay  leaves,  one  small 
sliced  carrot,  and  a  little  water.  Roast  three  or  four 
hours,  turning  and  basting  it  frequently.  If  the  meat 
dries  out,  add  liot  water  from  time  to  time.  When  the 
meat  is  done,  place  on  a  platter,  surround  with  boiled 
and  peeled  potatoes,  pour  over  the  meat  the  strained 
gravy  and  serve. 


BEEF.  39 

105.    ROAST  BEEF,  AMERICAN  STYLE.  * 

Hovězí  jJečeně  po  aniericku. 
Roast  beef  is  best  wlien  a  large  piece  of  meat  is 
used,  six  pounds  or  more.  However,  four  pounds  is 
usualh^  plenty  for  a  small  family.  Dust  the  roast  with 
salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  deep  pan,  rub  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  over  the  top,  pour  a  cup  of  hot  water  under 
it  and  roast  in  a  hot  oven.  The  oven  should  be  very 
hot  at  first,  so  as  to  sear  the  meat,  later  it  should  be 
slower,  so  that  the  meat  will  be  tender.  After  it  has 
been  roasting  half  an  hour,  sprinkle  sliced  onion  over 
it  and  turn.  When  the  meat  is  done,  make  a  gra- 
vy of  the  fat.  If  very  fat,  pour  off  some  and  add  a 
cup  of  hot  water.  Mix  flour  and  water  until  smooth 
and  thicken  the  gravy  with  it.  The  meat  should  roast 
fifteen  minutes  for  every  pound,  so  that  a  four  pound 
roast  requires  one  hour,  etc. 

106.  ROAST  BEEF  WITH  SOUR  CREAM. 

Pečeně  s  kyselou  smetanou. 
Cut  a  piece  of  rump  into  medium  sized  pieces, 
pound  and  interlard  with  strips  of  bacon  and  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  a  sliced  onion  and  minced  bacon 
in  a  skillet,  add  the  meat,  cover  well  and  stew  until 
the  juice  has  evaporated.  Then  add  a  little  vincjo'ar,  a 
little  water,  one  or  two  bay  leaves  and  stew  until  ten- 
der. Then  take  out  the  meat,  strain  the  liquor,  mix 
with  about  an  equal  quantity  of  sour  cream,  place  the 
meat  back  in  the  skillet,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  stew 
a  while  longer  and  serve. 

107.    ROLLED    BEEF. 

S^vinuté  hovězí. 
Pound  well  a  flank  or  round  steak,  dust  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  by  soaking  three  slices 
of  bread  in  milk  and  then  squeezing  them  dry,  add  two 
eggs,  one  minced  onion  fried  in  butter  to  a  ííolden 
brown,  minced  parsley,  a  piece  of  good  butter,  a  pinch 


40  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

of  mace,  salt  and  pepper,  mix  together  and  spread  over 
the -steak,  roll  up,  tie  around  with  strong-  thread.  Place 
in  a  pan,  pour  a  cup  of  hot  water  under  it,  dot  bits 
of  butter  on  top  and  bake  slowly  two  hours,  bastins: 
every  ten  minutes.    When  done,  slice  and  serve. 

108.    BEEF  WITH  SOUR  GRAVY. 

Hovězí  maso  na  hyselo. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  beef  with  any  vegetables  you 
may  have  on  hand,  or  you  may  use  cold  left-over  meat. 
Slice  nicely,  cover  with  water,  add  two  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind,  half  a  minced  onion,  five 
or  six  allspice,  four  or  five  cloves,  a  bay  leaf  and  salt. 
Cover  and  let  it  boil  a  while.  Blend  two  tablespoons 
of  butter  with  one  of  sugar,  when  brown,  add  a  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  flour  and  add  this  to  the  meat. 

109.    BEEF  A  LA  VENISON. 

Hovězí  maso  na  divoko. 

Mince  half  a  pound  of  bacon  and  fry.  Slice  one 
large  carrot,  one  celery  root,  one  parsley  root  and  one 
onion,  mix  all  with  the  hot  bacon,  add  two  bay  leaves, 
a  pinch  of  thyme,  five  whole  black  peppers,  five  wdiole 
allspice,  and  brown  all  together.  Salt  two  pounds  of 
rump  and  stew  it  in  the  foregoing.  If  it  dries  out,  add 
one  or  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water  at  the  time,  being 
careful  that  the  meat  does'  not  get  too  dry.  When  the 
meat  is  tender,  take  it  out,  add  to  the  liquor  two  cups 
of  hot  water  and  boil  a  while  longer.  Then  strain  and 
to  the  strained  liquor  add  two  cups  of  good  sour  cream, 
with  which  you  have  mixed  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
Put  the  meat  back  into  the  gravy,  stew  a  little  longer, 
and  serve  with  dumplings. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

Beefsteak  is  an  English  and  American  dish.  A 
great  many  Bohemians  never  learn  to  like  it  and  they 
cannot    understand    its    popularity    among    Americans. 


BEEF.  41 

This  is  partly  because  it  requires  so  little  preparation, 
while  Bohemian  recipes  call  for  a  much  longer  and  more 
thorough  cooking  of  meats.  Then,  too,  beefsteak  is  so 
often  taken  from  poor  cuts  and  is  therefore  tough  and 
unpalatable.  The  real  beefsteak  is  the  porterhouse.  The 
next  best  is  sirloin  and  the  next  chuck  steak,  but  neither 
of  these  has  the  flavor,  juiciness  and  tenderness  of  the 
porterhouse. 

110.    FRIED  STEAK. 

Beefsteak  smažený. 
If  you  wish  to  fry  a  porterhouse  steak,  it  will  not 
require  much  pounding,  but  the  sirloin  or  chuck  steaks 
need  to  be  pounded  well.  Never  wash  a  steak;  if  ne- 
cessary, wipe  it  with  a  cloth.  For  a  two  pound  steak 
place  in  a  skillet  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  or  the  fat 
trimmed  from  the  steak,  but  never  lard.  When  the  but- 
ter or  fat  is  smoking  hot,  place  the  steak  in  the  skillet, 
salt  and  pepper  the  top,  allow  the  underside  to  brown 
quickly,  to  keep  in  the  juice,  then  turn,  salt  and  pepper 
the  other  side,  allow  the  underside  to  brown  and  then, 
if  you  like  the  steak  well  done,  it  need  not  fry  as  quickly 
as  at  the  beginning.  When  the  steak  is  done,  add  to 
the  fat  a  little  minced  onion  and  when  it  has  browned, 
add  a  little  hot  water  and  pour  this  gravy  over  the 
steak.  If  you  wish,  you  may  thicken  it  with  a  little 
flour. 

111.    BROILED    STEAK. 

Beefsteak  na  rosti. 
Broiled  steak  is  always  rare  and  the  true  beefsteak 
lover  prefers  it  this  way,  because  it  is  the  juiciest.  For 
broiling,  thicker  slices  of  steak  are  used  than  for  fry- 
ing. Pound  the  meat  as  for  frying,  place  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  over  when  one  side 
is  done.  When  done,  place  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  bits  of  butter  over  it  and 
serve. 


42  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

If  you  do  not  have  a  regular  broiler,  you  may  ''pan 
broil"  the  steak,  although  this  does  not  give  it  the  real 
broiled  flavor.  Allow  the  pan  or  skillet  to  become 
smoking  hot,  then  rub  over  it  a  piece  of  fat  trimmed 
from  the  steak,  place  the  steak  thereon,  broil  on  both 
sides  and  before  serving  add  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of 
butter. 

112.    BAKED    STEAK. 

Beefsteak  pečený. 
Place  the  steak  in  a  baking  pan,  having  sprinkled 
salt  and  i^epper  over  it.  If  it  is  not  very  fat,  put  a 
piece  of  butter  on  top  and  cover  with  grated  bread 
crumbs.  Pour  a  little  hot  water  under  it  and  bake  about 
twent}^  minutes;  longer,  if  you  like  it  well  done. 

113.    STEWED   STEAK. 

Beefsteak  dušený. 
Cut  up  two  pounds  of  steak  into  small  pieces,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one  or  two 
sliced  onions  and  hot  water.  Cover  and  simmer  gently 
until  the  meat  is  tender.  Cream  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter with  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  add  to  the  stew,  mix- 
ing until  smooth. 

114.    STEAK  WITH  SOUR  GRAVY.  , 

Beefsteak  na  kyselo. 
For  this  purpose  round  steak  may  be  used.  Trim 
well  and  pound.  Place  a  tablespoon  of  lard  in  a 
skillet  and  when  it  is  smoking  hot,  brown  the  steak 
in  it  on  both  sides  over  a  hot  fire,  then  cover  the 
meat  with  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  a  large  onion 
sliced.  Cover  and  simmer  over  a  slow  fire.  If  the 
liquor  evaporates,  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  you 
wish  to  have  sauce.  There  should  be  a  cup  of  liquor 
to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  meat.  To  this  liquor  add  a 
cup  of  good  sour  cream  thickened  with  a  little  flour. 
Stir  constantly  while  pouring  this  in,  so  the  gravy  be 
smooth.     Then  add  a  tablespoon    of    catsup  and  more 


BEEF.  43 

salt  or  a  little  vinegar,  if  it  needs  either.    Cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces,  place  in  the  hot  gravy  and  serve. 

115.    HAMBURGER  STEAK. 

Ilamhurskfj  steak. 
Grind  in  a  meat  grinder  or  chop  fine  two  pounds 
of  good  beef.  The  markets  in  the  cities  have  on  hand 
ground  meat,  but  it  is  hardly  ever  prepared  from  really 
nice  meat  and  it  is  much  better  to  buy  a  good  piece 
and  do  this  yourself.  You  may  add  a  little  of  the  suet 
and  one  onion.  Salt  and  pepper  and  work  thorou^'hly 
with  your  hands,  make  small  cakes,  cover  with  flour 
and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter,  half  of  each. 

116.    GOULASH. 

Guláš. 
Cut  into  small  squares  two  pounds  of  meat  from  the 
shoulder.  Fry  one  large  minced  onion  in  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  until  golden  brown,  add  the  meat,  salt, 
four  whole  cloves,  eight  whole  allspice,  a  slice  of  le- 
mon, a  bay  leaf,  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  allow  it  to  stew.  When  the  meat  is 
tender,  dust  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  if  quite  dry, 
add  a  little  hot  water,  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  cat- 
sup and  a  pinch  of  paprika.  iVllow  this  to  stew  a  while 
longer,  then  serve. 

117.  HUNGARIAN  GOULASH. 

UJierslcjj  guláš. 
Cut  beef,  mutton  and  pork  into  small  squares.  Fry 
one  large  minced  onion  with  bacon,  adding  to  it  a  pinch 
of  caraway  seed  and  pepper.  Place  the  beef  in  this  and 
stew  a  while,  stirring  occasionally;  then  add  the  mutton 
and  later  the  pork,  dust  with  flour,  add  beef  soup  or 
hot  water,  salt,  paprika,  several  whole  allspice  and,  if 
you  wish,  a  little  wine.  Stew  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
You  may  stew  potatoes  with  the  meat.  Two  or  three 
pounds  of  meat  is  sufficient  for  six  i3eople. 


44  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

118.    IRISH  STEW. 

Dušené  hovězí  s  Ijramhorami. 
Cut  three  pounds  of  rump  into  squares.  Peel  six 
potatoes  and  slice,  and  mince  two  onions.  Place  a  layer 
of  meat  in  a  deep  kettle,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes, 
siDrinkle  with  onion,  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter, 
repeat  until  all  is  used.  The  last  layer  should  be  po- 
tatoes. Dot  bits  of  butter  over  the  top,  pour  half  a  cup 
of  water  over  it,  cover  and  stew  in  the  oven  two  hours. 

119.    BEEF  STEW  WITH  BREAD. 

Dušené  hovězí  s  chlebem. 
Wash  a  piece  of  rump,  salt  and  pound  thorou^'hly, 
interlard  with  bacon  and  place  in  a  skillet,  in  which 
you  have  browned  minced  onion  in  butter.  Add  a  few 
cloves  and  let  it  stew.  Cut  rye  bread  into  dice,  add  to 
the  meat,  baste  with  soup  and  if  you  wish,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  white  wine.  When  done  arrange  the  meat  in 
slice's  and  pour  the  strained  gravy  over  it. 

120.    BEEF   A   LA   MODE. 

Hovězí  dušené  s  I'Openim,. 
Roll  bacon  strips  in  ground  cloves,  pepper  and  salt, 
then  interlard  pounded  beef  well  with  it,  place  in  hot 
lard  with  parsley,  onion,  carrot  and  a  few  ba7/  leaves. 
When  the  meat  begins  to  brown,  turn,  add  pepper, 
ground  cloves,  ground  allspice,  and  a  little  wine. 
Cover  and  stew  three  hours  over  a  slow  fire.  When 
the  meat  is  done,  place  it  on  a  platter,  pour  the  liquor 
over  it,  surround  with  stewed  sliced  carrots  or  sliced 
lemons  and  serve. 

121.    JELLIED    BEEF. 

Hovězí  V  rosolu. 
Boil  a  beef  shank  six  hours,  then  take  out  the 
bones  and  fat.  Cut  the  meat  and  tendons  into  pieces. 
When  the  liquor  in  which  it  has  boiled  is  cool,  skim 
off  the  grease  and  add  enough  to  the  meat  to  form  a 
thick  mush.     Add  salt,  pepper,  mace,  allspice  and  boil 


BEEF.  45 

fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly.     Pour  into  a  dish 
and  when  entirely  cold,  cut  in  thick  slices. 

122.    BOILED  CORNED  BEEF. 

Naložené  hovězí. 
Wash  the  meat  thoroughly  and,  if  very  salty,  place 
in  cold  water,  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  the  water  off  and 
add  fresh  boiling  water.  If  the  meat  is  not  salty,  set 
it  to  boil  in  hot  water.  Skim  the  foam  and  allow 
half  an  hour  for  every  pound.  If  you  intend  to  serve 
the  corned  beef  cold,  let  it  cool  in  the  liquor,  then 
put  it  on  a  clean  board  and  place  weights  on  top,  to 
l^ress  it  down. 

123.  CORNED  BEEF  WITH  CABBAGE. 

Naložené  hovězí  s  hlávkoíi. 
Wash  in  hot  water  three  pounds  of  corned  beef, 
i:)lace  it  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  when  it 
boils,  skim  the  foam,  then  cover  and  simmer  gently. 
When  it  has  been  boiling  an  hour  and  a  half,  add  a  head 
of  cabbage,  which  you  have  prepared  thus:  Cut  the  head 
in  quarters,  take  out  the  stalk,  soak  the  cabbage  fifteen 
minutes  in  cold  water,  then  put  it  with  the  corned  beef 
and  add  four  or  five  peeled  turnips.  Fifteen  minutes 
later  add  four  or  five  peeled  potatoes  and  boil  until  ten- 
der. Serve  the  meat  on  a  platter,  surrounded  by  the 
boiled  vegetables. 

124.    HOW   TO   CORN   BEEF   No.    1. 

NaJdádání  hovězího  masa  do  jíchy. 
Dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  saltpeter  in  a  gallon  of 
water  and  boil  together  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  salt  and  allow  the  mixture  to  cool. 
Pour  this  over  the  beef  and  it  will  keep  fresh  all  sum- 
mer. Pork  may  be  corned  this  way  also,  but  more  salt 
must  be  used. 


46  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

125.    HOW  TO    CORN  BEEF   No.   2. 

Nakládání  hovězího   masa  na  jiný  způsob. 

For  200  pounds  of  meat  take  six  or  seven  pounds  of 
salt  and  one  box  of  ground  assorted  spices.  Two  heads  of 
garlic,  mashed  to  a  paste  with  salt,  may  also  be  added. 
Mix  all  together  and  rub  over  the  meat.  The  meat  is 
then  packed  well  into  a  jar  or  keg,  so  that  there  are  no 
crevices  between  the  pieces.  Place  a  board  and  weight 
on  top. 

126.    PICKLED    BEEF. 
Nal'ladani  hovězího   masa  na   hijsclo. 

Boil  the  meat  just  enough  so  that  it  will  not  be  raw, 
then  cut  out  the  bones.  For  the  brine  boil  equal  amounts 
of  water  and  vinegar  with  ground  assorted  spices.  The 
meat  must  cool  thoroughly.  The  next  day  cut  it  up  into 
two  or  three  pound  pieces,  pack  in  jars  or  kegs,  pour 
the  brine  over  it  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

127.    CHIPPED  BEEF  WITH  CREAM. 

Sušené   hovězí  se   smetanou. 

Tear  the  thinly  chipped  beef  into  pieces  and  soak 
in  cold  water  two  or  three  minutes.  Melt  a  tablespoon 
of  butter.  When  hot,  add  the  beef,  squeezed  dry.  Let 
it  sizzle  five  minutes,  turning  often,  so  that  it  will  not 
burn.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Mix  well.  When 
brown,  add  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream.  Sim- 
mer a  while,  then  add  a  beaten  ^gg  and  pepper  and 
serve. 

128.    RIBS  OF  BEEF. 
Hovězí  žehrá. 

Cut  up  two  or  three  beef  ribs  into  pieces  about  four 
inches  long,  then  interlard  the  meat  with  bacon,  and 
sprinkle  it  with  salt,  pepper  and  minced  parsley.  Heat 
butter  in  a  skillet,  place  the  ribs  in  it  and  brown  on 
both  sides,  tlien  cover  ^  tlie  skillet  and  place  it  in  the 
oven.  When  the  ribs  are  done,  arrange  them  on  a^dish, 
pour  over  them  the  strained  liquor,  from  which  you  have 
skimmed  all  the  fat,   and  garnish  with  fried  potatoes. 


BEEF.  47 

129.    BEEF   LOAF. 

Hovězí  sekanina. 

Three  pounds  of  finely  minced  or  ground  beef,  a 
fourtli  of  a  pound  of  finely  minced  bacon,  three  heap- 
ing tablespoons  of  grated  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk, 
three  beaten  eggs.  Mix  together  thoroughly,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  sage.  Grease  a  baking  pan  with  butter,  form 
a  loaf  of  the  meat,  sprinkle  grated  bread  crumbs  on  top 
and  bake  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours,  basting- 
occasionally  with  melted  butter.  This  may  be  served 
hot  or  cold. 

130.   HASH. 
Sekanina  ^e  zbytků. 

The  best  meat  for  hash  is  beef,  although  pork  or 
veal  may  also  be  used,  or  all  three  together.  The  meat 
should  be  ground  or  minced  fine.  Chop  separately  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  using  about  half  the  ai}aount  of  potatoes 
as  meat.  Place  in  a  skillet  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
fry  one  minced  onion  in  it  until  golden  brown.  Then 
add  the  meat  and  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  of  hot 
water,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stew  over  a  hot  fire  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

131.   BAKED   HASH. 

Pečená  sekanina. 
Mince  cold  beef.    Peel  and  grate  six  large  raw  po- 
tatoes, add  two  or  three    eggs,    a   minced    onion,     two 
tablespoons    of    flour,    salt    and    pepper  to  taste.     Mix 
together  and  bake  in  a  greased  pan. 

132.    BEEF  KIDNEYS. 

Hovězí  ledvinky. 
Soak  beef  kidneys  in  cold  water  one  hour.  Then 
slice  tliem  thin,  heat  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  dash  of  caraway  seed,  pepper,  one  minced  onion, 
or  a  clove  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste  with  a  little  salt. 
Place  the  kidneys  in  this  and  stew  them.  When  near- 
ly done,  add  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir,  add  several 


48  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

tablespoons    of    good*   beef  soup,    stew  a  while  lon^-er 
and  serve. 

133.   BEEF  KIDNEYS  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY. 

Hovězí  ledvinky  se  smetanovou  omáčkou. 

Soak  beef  kidneys  one  hour  in  cold  water,  then  cut 
in  slices,  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil.  Skim  the 
foam  that  arises,  when  clear  add  salt,  two  or  three 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind,  a  bay 
leaf,  six  whole  allspice,  four  whole  cloves,  a  sliced  onion 
and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cover  and  simmer.  When 
tender,  add  a  cup  of  good  sour  cream  thickened  with 
a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Let  the  kidneys  stew  in  this  a 
while  and  before  serving  add  one  beaten  yolk. 

134.    FRIED   UDDER. 

Smažené  vemeno. 

Boil  the  udder  in  salted  water  until  it  is  tender, 
which  will  take  about  four  hours.  When  it  is  done,  take 
it  out  and  slice  thin.  Beat  two  eggs,  adding  salt  and 
pepper.  Dip  the  sliced  udder  in  flour,  then  in  the  eggs, 
then  in  grated  bread  crumbs  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown  in  rendered  butter.  You  can  prepare  tripe  or 
tongue  in  the  same  way. 

135.    TRIPE  WITH  SOUR  GRAVY. 

DrHky   na  kyselo. 

Cut  up  two  pounds  of  tripe  which  has  been  boiled 
until  tender,  place  in  a  kettle  and  pour  over  two  cups 
of  water  and  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  add  one  minced 
onion,  a  few  whole  allspice,  four  cloves  and  a  clove  of 
garlic  mashed  to  a  paste  with  salt.  Allow  this  to  boil 
a  while.  Blend  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  one  of  flour,  until  a  rich  brown.  Add 
this  to  the  tripe  with  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  a  pinch  of 
marjoram,  boil  a  minute  or  two  and  serve. 


BEEF.  49 

136.    BEEF    TONGUE. 

Dušený  hovězí  jazyk. 
Wash  and  boil  a  beef  tongue  half  an  hour,  if  lari>'e, 
one  hour.  Peel,  cool  and  trim.  Place  minced  bacon  in 
a  kettle,  several  pieces  of  veal,  two  sliced  carrots,  four 
sliced  onions,  a  pinch  of  thyme  and  cloves,  then  add  the 
tongue.  Cover  with  beef  soup  and  stew  until  the  toni!:ue 
is  tender,  which  will  take  three  or  four  hours.  Add 
soup  from  time  to  time  and  also  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
When  the  tongue  is  tender,  take  it  out,  cut  it  len^^th- 
wise,  beginning  from  the  larger  end,  but  do  not  cut 
through,  leave  it  joined  together  at  the  smaller  end. 
Spread  out  the  severed  ends  and  pour  over  the  tonp:ue 
the  graVy  strained  through  a  sieve. 

137.    BEEF  TONGUE  WITH  POLISH  GRAVY. 

Hovězí  jazyh  s  polskou  omáčkou. 
Blend  butter  or  fresh  suet  with  a  tablespoon  of  su- 
gar, until  a  dark  brown.  Add  a  wineglass  of  wine,  a 
little  vinegar,  and  enough  beef  soup  to  -form  a  rather 
thick  gravy.  Then  add  twelve  whole  peppers,  five 
allspice,  five  cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  lemon  rind,  salt  and  sim- 
mer fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  add  a  handful  of  raisins 
and  two  ounces  of  sliced  blanched  almonds.  If  the  gravy 
is  too  thick,  add  beef  soup.  Salt  to  taste  and  stew  a 
while  longer.  Peel  and  trim  the  boiled  tongue,  cut  in 
rather  thick  slices,  place  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  it. 

138.  BEEF  TONGUE  WITH  SAUCE  OR 
HORSERADISH. 

Vařený  hovězí  jazyk  s  omáčkou  neb  křenem. 

Boil  a  tongue  until  tender.  Peel,  cut  len^'thwise 
and  sprinkle  with  capers.  You  may  serve  with  this 
caper  or  anchovy  sauce,  or  grated  horseradish. 


Cook  Book  4 


50  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Pork. — Vepřové  maso. 

139.  •pORK  CHOPS. 

Vepřové  řízlcy. 

Wash  the  chops,  arrange  on  a  skillet,  dust  with 
salt  and  caraway  seed,  add  three  or  four  tablespoons 
of  hot  water,  cover  and  stew.  When  the  water  evapo- 
rates, the  fat  in  the  chops  begins  to  fry  out.  If  there 
is  not  enough,  add  a  little  lard.  When  browned  on 
one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  tli^  other.  When  done, 
arrange  on  a  platter,  add  hot  water  and  half  a  table- 
spoon of  flour  to  the  grease  in  the  skillet,  salt  if  ne- 
cessary, and  when  it  bubbles,  pour  over  the  chops.  Pork 
chops  may  also  be  baked  in  the  oven. 

140.  PORK   CUTLETS    No.    1. 

Vepřové  hotletky. 

Trim  and  pound  pork  cutlets,  dust  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  to  which  you  may  add  a  little  minced  onion  or 
sage,  and  fry.  When  done,  arrange  on  a  platter,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  potato  croquettes  or  various  vege- 
tables. 

141.  PORK    CUTLETS    No.    2. 

Vepřové  hotleiky  na  jiný  zpúsoh. 

Dust  pork  cutlets  with  salt  and  pe^^per,  dip  in 
melted  butter,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  on  both  sides 
to  a  golden  brown,  about  fifteen  minutes.  In  an- 
other saucepan  fry  four  sliced  onions  in  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  cup  of  hot  water, 
a  teaspoon  or  two  of  beef  extract,  salt,  several  whole 
peppers,  half  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  allow  all  to  sim- 
mer together  until  the  onion  is  tender.  Then  strain 
through  a  sieve  into  the  center  of  the  dish  and  arrange 
the  cutlets  around  it. 


PORK.  51 

142.    ROAST  LOIN  OF  PORK. 

Vejjřová  pečené  ledvinová. 

Wash  a  pork  loin,  dust  with  salt  and  caraway  seed, 
place  in  a  pan,  pour  a  little  water  under  it.  The  oven 
should  he  hot  for  the  first  twenty  minutes  or  so,  then 
it  may  he  slower.  If  the  roast  is  too  fat,  the  surplus 
fat  must  be  trimmed  off.  Leg  of  pork  may  be  roasted 
in  this  manner. 

143.    PORK  AND  BEANS. 

Slanina  s  fazolemi. 

Soak  two  cups  of  beans  in  cold  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning  place  them  over  tlie  fire,  adding  half  a 
teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  a  little  salt  and  boil  about 
half  an  hour.  Place  in  a  saucepan  three  or  four  fresh 
tomatoes,  or  half  the  contents  of  a  three  lb.  can,  one 
sliced  onion,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  stew  half  an 
hour.  Wash  well  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  add  it  to  the 
beans,  then  the  strained  tomatoes,  a  tablespoon  of 
syrup  and  one  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  cover  well  and 
bake  slowly  two  or  three  hours. 

144.    PORK  WITH  KOHL-RABI. 

Vepřové  s  hrukvi. 

Wash  a  piece  of  pork  and  boil  with  various  vege- 
tables, the  same  as  beef.  Peel  and  cut  into  dice  or  slice 
kohl-rabi,  pour  water  over  it  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil,  pour  it  off  and  add  the  water  in  which  the  pork 
has  been  boiling,  add  salt,  and  if  it  is  to  be  sweet,  also 
a  little  sugar,  otherwise  a  dash  of  pepper.  When  the 
kohl-rabi  is  tender,  add  flour  and  butter  blended  to- 
gether until  a  golden  brown.  When  it  begins  to  bubble, 
put  the  meat  in,  cut  into  small  pieces,  let  it  stew  thus  a 
while  and  serve.  If  you  like  a  darker  gravy,  you  may 
add  a  piece  of  browned  sugar.  Pork  is  also  prepared 
thus  with  carrots,  turnips  or  kale. 


o^: 


BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK 


145.    PORK,   POLISH  STYLE. 

Vepřové  po  polskii. 
Boil  two  pounds  of  pork  from  the  ribs  in  salted 
water.  Blend  a  tablespoonof  butter  with  one  of  flo:u' 
until  a  light  brown,  thin  this  with  the  liquor  from  the 
meat,  add  a  little  vinegar,  grated  lemon  rind,  allspice, 
a  dash  of  cloves,  several  blanched  almonds,  a  handful 
of  seedless  raisins,  a  little  syrup,  half  a  cup  of  grated 
gingerbread,  and  stew  all  together.  AVhen  the  meat  is 
done,  cut  into  i^ieces,  place  in  the  gravy,  let  all  stew 
together  a  few  moments  and  serve. 

146.   SCRAPPLE. 

Vepřové   maso  s  kul-uřiénou   moul'ou. 

For  this  you  may  use  almost  any  pork,  even  left 
overs,  but  the  best  is  a  boiled  pork  head,  liver,  heart, 
etc.  Place  all  in  a  kettle  with  water,  salt,  pepper,'  gar- 
lic and  marjoram.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  take  it 
out,  strain  the  liquor  and  add  to  it  enough  corn  meal  to 
make  as  much  mush  as  you  have  meat.  Boil  half  an 
hour.  Chop  the  meat  fine  and  add  to  the  cornmeal. 
Pour  the  hot  mixture  into  shallow  pans  to  cool.  This 
can  be  sliced  cold  and  fried  golden  brown. 

147.    PORK  ROLLS  WITH  RICE. 

Vepřové  zavitl'i/  s  výií. 

Cut  from  a  pork  leg  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  pound 
and  dust  with  salt.  Grate  several  onions,  fry  in  a  little 
butter  and  spread  over  the  slices,  place  on  each  slice  a 
tablespoon  of  washed  rice,  roll  and  tie  around  with 
thread,  arrange  in  a  greased  pan  a  bake  over  a  quick 
fire  until  about  half  done.  Then  add  a  little  beef  soup, 
and  stew  until  meat  and  rice  are  tender. 

148.    SPARE-RIBS    WITH    SOURKRAUT. 

Vepřová  žehí?'Jca  se  zelím. 
Take  two  pounds  of  spare-ribs  and  cut  them  up,  so 
there  will  be  two  or  three  ribs    in    one    piece.     Wash, 


PORK.  '  53 

salt  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  water.  When  they  have 
boiled  half  an  hour,  add  a  quart  of  sourkraut  and  half 
of  an  onion  sliced,  cover  and  stew  until  meat  and  kraut 
are  tender.  Finally  thicken  the  kraut  with  water  and 
flour. 

149.  PICKLED  LEG  OF  PORK. 
Vepřová  nakládaná  kýta. 
Trim  a  pork  leg,  wash,  dust  with  salt  and  place  in 
a  deep  dish.  Boil  together  two  cups  of  vinegar,  the 
same  amount  of  water,  one  sliced  onion,  several  bay 
leaves,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  a  piece  of  ginger,  several 
whole  peppers,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  when  this  li- 
quor cools,  pour  it  over  the  pork.  Allow  it  to  stand  thus 
three  days,  turning  it  twice  each  day.  On  the  third 
day  put  it  in  a  pan,  strain  over  it  some  of  the  liquor 
and  roast  it,  basting  occasionally.  When  it  is  near- 
ly done,  mix  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  a  little  sour 
cream,  add  to  the  liquor  in  the  pan  and,  when  the  gra- 
vy thickens,  serve. 

150.    BOILED  HAM. 

y arena  šunka. 
Soak  a  ham  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Place  in  a 
large  kettle,  cover  with  water  and  boil  gently  ui^til  ten- 
der, which  takes  from  two  to  three  hours  or  more, 
according  to  size.  If  the  ham  is  very  salty,  pour  off  the 
liquor  when  it  is  about  half  done  and  add  fresh  boiling 
water.  Turn  several  times  and  keep  adding  boiling- 
water,  keeping  the  ham  covered  all  the  time.  When 
done,  take  off  the  skin  while  warm,  dust  with  marjo- 
ram and  pepper,  cover  with  the  skin  and  cool. 

151.    CpLD    HAM. 

Sunka. 
Slice  boiled  or  baked  ham  in  thin  slices,  arrange  on 
a  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve    with    vinegar, 
pepper  and  mustard,  each  separately.     Potato  salad  is 
usual Iv  served  with  ham. 


54  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

152.    HAM  ROASTED  IN  DOUGH. 

SunJiii  pečená  v  iésté. 

Hams  are  usually  rather  salt}^  If  so,  soak  over 
night  in  cold  water,  keeping  it  entirely  covered.  Trim 
off  the  skin  and  fat,  cover  about  half  an  inch  thick 
with  bread  dough,  so  that  no  crevice  remains.  Pierce 
the  dough  oyer  the  top  several  times,  so  it  will  not 
burst  in  baking  and  bake  the  ham  four  or  five  hours 
in  a  slow  oven.  When  done,  take  off  the  dough  and 
serve. 

153.  BROILED  HAM. 

BoHéná   sunJi'a. 
Cut  raw  ham  in  thin  slices,  pound  and  broil  in  a 
dry  hot  pan,  on  both  sides.    When  done,  spread  each 
slice  with  butter,    arrange  on  a  platter  and  pour  over 
the  juice  from  the  ham. 

154.  HAM  AND  EGGS. 

ňunlri  s   vejci. 
Slice  boiled  ham  thin,  fry  in  hot  butter,    arrange 
on  a  ]ieated  dish  and  on  each  slice  of  ham  place  a  fried 
egg.     Serve  with  fried  potatoes. 

155.    HAM  WITH  SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Šunlri  s  míchanými  vejci. 
Mince  boiled  ham,    fry  in  a  little  hot  butter,-  add 
several  eggs  and  mix  thoroughl}^     Six    eggs   are  suf- 
ficient for  half  a  pound  of  ham.     A  little  minced  par- 
sley or  chives  adds  a  good  flavor  to  tliis  dish. 

156.    SMOKED  PORK. 

Uzené   vepřové. 
Wash  smoked  pork  thoroughly    and  simmer  until 
tender.     When  done,    cut  in  slices  and  serve  with  rye 
bread  and  grated  horseradish,  or  dumplings  and  sour- 
kraut,  or  boiled  peas  and  dill  pickles. 


PORK.  55 

157.    SMOKED   PORK   WITH   RICE. 

Uzené  vepřové  s  rýži. 
Mince  fine  a  pound  of  boiled  smoked  pork.  Boil 
half  a  pound  of  rice  in  the  liquor  in  which  the  pork  has 
been  boiled.  Grease  a  pan,  put  in  a  layer  of  rice,  then 
a  layer  of  minced  meat  and  repeat,  putting  rice  on  top, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  pour  over  a  tablespoon  of  soup 
and  bake  an  hour  in  the  oven.  If  you  have  on  hand 
fresh  mushrooms,  stew  them  in  a  little  butter,  adding 
a  pinch  of  mace.  If  you  have  dried  mushrooms,  boil  in 
soup,  mince  and  add  them,  in  either  case,  to  the  minced 
pork. 

158.   FRIED   BACON. 

Smažený  uzený  špeh. 
Fry  thinly  sliced  bacon  in  a  hot  skillet,  until  near- 
ly all  of  the  fat  has  fried  out.     When  done,  arrange  on 
a  dish  with  eggs  fried  in  the  same  fat. 

159.    BAKED    BACON. 

Pečený  uzený  špď. 
Bacon  may  be  baked  until  crisp  in  the  oven  and  is 
served  with  fried  potatoes. 

160.    ROAST  PIG. 

Pečené  podsvinče. 
Dust  inside  with  salt  and  pepper  and  caraway 
seed  a  thoroughly  cleaned  suckling  pig.  Place  in- 
side a  slice  of  bread  and  sew  up  the  opening.  Fasten 
the  feet  together  and  place  greased  paper  frills  on  the 
ears.  Now  jDlace  the  pig  on  a  pan,  across  which  you 
have  laid  sticks  of  wood,  which  must  contain  no 
rosin.  Arrange  the  pig  on  these,  feet  upwards.  It 
must  not  touch  the  pan  anywhere.  Pour  under  it 
several  tablespoons  of  beer  or  cider  and  bake  in 
the  oven,  rubbing  it  now  and  then  with  a  little  but- 
ter. When  the  skin  is  red  and  crisp  on  top,  turn 
and  do  not  forget  to  rub  butter  over  it  occasionally  un- 
til done.    Before  it  is  quite    done,    baste  a  few    times 


5tí  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

witli  beer,  which  makes  the  skin  more  crisp.  Now  take 
the  pig  out,  shish  the  skin  around  the  neck,  co  the  steam 
may  evaporate  and  the  skin  does  not  lose  its  crispness, 
arrange  on  a  platter,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon,  place 
a  lemon  in  the  mouth  and  serve  with  sourkraut. 

161.    ROAST    TENDERLOIN. 

Pečená  vepřová  svíčka. 
Clean  pork  tenderloin,  arrange  on  a  pan,  dust  with 
salt,  flour  and  caraway  seed,  add  a  piece  of  lard  and  a 
little  water  and  roast,  basting  frequently. 

162.    FRIED  PORK  TENDERLOIN. 

Smažená  vepřová  svíčka. 
Wash  and  trim  pork  tenderloins.  Cut  each  in  four 
pieces,  first  lengthwise  and  then  across.  Pound  well  to 
flatten  them  out,  dust  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  dip 
in  beaten  eggs  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  to  which  you 
have  added  a  pinch  of  sage,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

163.    HAM  CROQUETTES. 

Karbanátky  ze  šunky. 
Mince  two  cups  of  boiled  ham  or  smoked  meat,  add 
four  cups  of  boiled  riced  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  a  dash  each  of  salt,  pepper  and  mace. 
Mix  together  well,  make  small  cakes,  dip  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  butter  or  lard. 

164.  CROQUETTES. 

Karbanátky  ze  zbytků. 
Mince  fine  any  left-over  meat.  If  you  have  about 
three  cups  of  this,  add  three  eggs,  a  pinch  each  of  pep- 
per, allspice,  ginger,  salt,  caraway  seed  and  grated  le- 
mon rind.  Mix  together  and  form  into  cones.  Fry  gol- 
den brown.  Potatoes  served  in  the  following  manner 
are  good  with  this:  boil  peeled  potatoes  in  salted  wa- 
ter. When  done,  drain,  add  two  beaten  yolks,  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  enough  milk  to  moisten,  mash  thor- 
oughly, place  on  a  dish  and  pour  rendered  butter  over 
them. 


PORK.  57 

165.  SAUSAGE  MEAT. 

Vepřová  sel'duina. 
Mince  fine  pork  from  the  shonlder,  not  too  lean.  To 
five  i30unds  of  meat  nse  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  salt, 
a  heaping  teaspoon  of  pepper,  an  even  teaspoon  of  sage, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  ginger.  Mix  together  well  and  put 
in  a  cool  place,  where  it  will  keep  several  days.  You 
may  fry  this  as  meat  cakes,  or  add  warm  water  to  thin 
it  and  put  it  in  casings,  making  pork  sausage. 

166.    FRIED  SAUSAGE  MEAT. 

Smažená  selrinina. 
Mix  together  thoroughly  a  pound  of  minced  pork, 
three  eggs,  a  dash  of  pepper,  a  minced  onion,  salt  and 
four  slices  of  bread  grated.     Form  into  cakes  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

167.    DEVILED    HAM. 

Sekaná  šunl^a. 
At  night  place  in  a  deep  dish  a  ham,  with  the 
skin  upwards,  cover  with  cold  water  and  place  a 
weight  on  top,  so  it  stays  under  water.  In  the  morning 
wash  well  in  two  waters.  Make  a  batter  of  water  and 
flour,  cover  the  ham  all  over,  pressing  down  well, 
and  bake  three  or  four  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  according 
to  the  size.  When  done,  take  off  the  covering  and  allow 
the  meat  to  cool.  Trim  off  the  lean  meat,  put  through 
a  meat  grinder  and  grind  fine.  Add  paprika  or  pepper 
to  taste,  allspice  and  salt  if  necessary.  Mix  together 
well,  pack  in  Mason  or  other  preserving  jars  and  put 
away  in  a  cool  place.  The  fat,  trimmed  from  the  ham 
may  be  fried  out,  being  first  but  into  dice.  This  shorten- 
ing is  good  to  use  in  biscuits.  The  rind  may  be  used  to 
grease  pancake  griddles. 

168.    PORK   LOAF. 

Pečená  sekanina. 
Chop  fine  three  pounds  of  pork,  add  four  slices  of 
bread  soaked  in  water  or  milk,  or  six  crackers,  half  a 


58  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

grated  onion,  a  i^incli  of  grated  lemon  rind,  three  eggs, 
a  little  white  wine,  salt,  pepper  and  mace.  Mix  to- 
gether well  and  form  a  loaf.  Grease  a  pan  with  butter 
or  lard,  j^lace  the  loaf  in  it,  dnst  over  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  medium  oven.  Sprinkle  melted  butter  or 
lard  over  the  top  several  times.  When  done,  arrange  in 
slices  on  a  platter,  pour  the  liquor  over  it  and  serve  with 
lemon  sauce. 

169.    SOURKRAUT   WITH    SAUSAGE    MEAT. 

Kyselé  zelí  s  vepřovou  selwiinou. 
Drain  a  quart  of  sourkraut  and  put  it  in  a  stone 
jar  or  a  crock.  Grind  one  pound  of  pork,  add  salt  and 
X)epper,  add  it  to  the  sourkraut,  mix  together,  cover 
and  bake  in  the  oven  about  an  hour.  When  done,  pour 
a  cup  of  sour  cream  over  it,  but  do  not  stir.  Bake  fif- 
teen minutes  longer.    When  brown  on  top,  it  is  done. 

170.    PRESERVED  ROAST  PORK. 

Zapečené  vepřové  maso. 
When  the  meat  has  thoroughly  cooled  after  killing, 
it  is  cut  into  pieces  about  half  an  inch  thick,  all  fat  and 
bones  are  trimmed  off,  the  meat  is  salted  and  allowed 
to  stand  thus  one  hour.  Then  place  the  meat  in  a  bak- 
ing pan,  scatter  a  little  caraway  seed  over  it  and  bake, 
without  adding  any  water  to  it.  When  all  the  meat  is 
baked  and  cooled,  pack  it  in  stone  jars  or  crocks,  as 
solidly  as  possible  and  pour  melted  lard  over  it,  leaving 
a  layer  of  lard  two  inches  thick  on  top.  When  using 
this  meat,  cover  the  remainder  carefully  with  lard,  so  it 
will  not  spoil. 

171.    ROAST  PORK  TONGUE. 

Pečené  vepřové  jazyl-y. 
Parboil  pork  tongues,  peel  off  the  top  skin,  inter- 
lard with  bacon,  salt  and  fasten  the  ends  together  with 
a  white  cotton  string  or  toothpicks.    Pour  a  little  melted 
butter  over  them  and  bake  to  a  golden  brown.    Make  a 


PORK.  59 

sauce  of  equal  parts  of  wine  and  vinegar,  a  little  sugar, 
lemon  rind,  a  few  cloves  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  When 
this  has  simmered  a  while,  thicken  with  browned  flour 
and  butter  and  serve  with  the  tongues. 

172.  BOILED  PORK  HEAD   WITH    HORSERADISH. 

Vepřový  ovar  s  křenem. 
Boil  a  pork  head  and  part  of  the  neck  in  salted  wa- 
ter.   Serve  with  grated  horseradish. 

173.   PICKLED  PIGS'  FEET. 

Naložené  vepřové  nožíchy. 
Place  in  a  kettle  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed 
pigs'  feet,  cover  with  water  and  when  they  have  been 
boiling  an  hour,  add  salt  and  boil  until  tender.  Pack  in 
a  crock  and  pour  over  them  hot  vinegar,  which  you 
have  boiled  with  an  onion  and  the  various  spices,  as  all- 
spice, whole  pepper,  cloves,  whole  mace,  etc.  Allow  the 
contents  to  stand  in  this  two  days  before  using.  Pigs'^ 
feet  require  four  to  five  hours  boiling. 

174.  STUFFED  CABBAGE  No.  1. 

Ptáčci  hez  hosii. 
Prepare  a  nice  head  of  cabbage,  leaving  it  whole, 
place  it  in  a  deep  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Put  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  cover  and  let  it  stand 
thus,  until  it  becomes  tender.  It  must  not  boil.  When 
it  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  take  it  out  to  cool.  In  the 
meantime  wash  a  cup  or  two  of  rice,  pour  boiling 
water  on  it,  add  salt,  a  piece  of  butter,  or  if  you  have 
soup,  use  it  instead  of  the  water,  in  which  case  you  do 
not  have  to  use  butter.  Cover  and  let  it  stew  in  tlie 
oven,  until  about  half  done.  Do  not  use  too  much  wa- 
ter or  soup,  so  the  rice  will  not  become  sticky;  it  should 
be  rather  dry.  When  the  rice  is  half  done,  take  it  out 
and  cool.  Mince  fine  or  put  through  tlie  meat  grinder 
a  nice  piece  of  lean  pork  and  also  a  piece  of  veal  or 
young  beef,  although  pork  alone  may  be  used.    The  pro- 


60  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

portion  of  meat  and  rice  varies,  according  to  taste. 
Equal  amounts  of  each  are  good,  or  if  you  do  not  like 
it  rich,  use  more  rice  than  pork,  or  you  can  use  more 
pork  that  rice.  Mix  both  together,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
two,  three  or  four  beaten  eggs,  according  to  the  amount, 
four,  five  or  six  tablespoons  of  cream  and  a  finely 
minced  onion  fried  in  butter.  It  should  be  quite  moist, 
as  the  baking  will  dry  it  out.  If  too  stiff,  add  more 
cream  or  milk.  Take  the  head  of  cabbage  apart,  being 
careful  to  keep  the  leaves  whole.  Line  a  casserole  with 
cabbage  leaves.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  on  a 
leaf,  fold  the  ends  over  each  other,  so  as  to  enclose  the 
contents.  If  you  wish,  you  can  fasten  the  ends  with 
toothpicks.  Arrange  these  in  layers  and  when  you  have 
the  dish  full,  half  fill  it  with  hot  water  or  soup  and 
cover  with  cabbage  leaves  and  sliced  tomatoes,  then 
cover  the  dish  and  bake  from  three  quarters  to  one 
hour.  When  done,  serve  with  sauce,  either  tomato 
sauce  or  one  made  of  sour  cream,  butter  and  the  yolk 
of  an  egg. 

175.    STUFFED   CABBAGE   No.   2. 

Ptáčci  hez  kostí  na  jiný  způsob. 

In  two  tablespoons  of  lard  fry  one  large  minced 
onion  until  yellow,  then  add  to  it  two  pounds  of  lean 
pork  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  a  pinch  of  paprika  and 
salt,  cover  and  stew  over  a  slow  fire.  Do  not  use  any 
water.  When  the  meat  is  half  done,  cool  and  mince 
fine,  add  a  cup  of  raw  rice,  the  liquor  from  the  meat 
and  mix  together.  Then  proceed  as  in  the  foregoing 
recipe. 

176.    LIVER    SAUSAGE. 
Jaternice. 

Boil  a  pig's  .head.  If  too  large  and  fat,  trim  off 
the  fat.  Boil  the  lungs,  heart  and  kidneys  in  a  separate 
kettle.  Use  only  half  of  the  liver  and  chop  that  raw. 
When  all  is  done,  mince  fine.  To  one  part  of  meat  use  two 
parts  of  stale  white    bread    soaked  in    water   and  then 


PORK.  61 

squeezed  dry.  Mix  together,  add  pepper,  salt,  ground 
allspice,  a  pinch  of  ground  cloves,  grated  lemon  rind, 
marjoram  and  a  few  cloves  of  garlic,  (mashed  to  a 
paste).  Have  ready  thoroughly  cleaned  beef  casings, 
cut  into  pieces  about  six  inches  long,  and  also  string  or 
toothpicks,  to  fasten  the  ends.  When  the  mixture  is  pre- 
pared, fill  one  casing,  tie  or  fasten  each  end  and  place 
the  sausage  in  boiling  water,  in  order  to  test  it.  If  it 
needs  any  more  spices,  salt,  etc.  add  what  is  needed  and 
proceed  to  fill  the  casings.  Some  people  boil  these 
sausages  in  large  quantities  at  one  time,  but  in  this  way 
they  are  more  likely  to  break.  It  it  better  to  have  two 
moderately  sized  kettles,  filled  with  the  liquor  in  which 
you  have  boiled  the  meat.  Put  in  each  just  a  few 
sausages  at  a  time,  so  the  kettle  is  about  half  filled. 
When  they  rise  to  the  top,  take  them  out,  put  them  in  a 
dish  containing  clear  cold  water  for  a  moment  or  two 
and  then  lay  them  on  a  clean  board.  The  liquor  in  which 
you  boil  them  if  used  for  soup  should  be  cooled  and 
skimmed,  so  it  will  not  be  greasy. 

177.    BLOOD   SAUSAGE. 

Jelita. 

When  killing  pork,  catch  the  blood  and  beat  it,  so 
it  will  not  clot.  Take  a  piece  of  pork  from  the  neck  and 
a  piece  of  leaf  lard,  boil  both  until  partly  done,  then  cut 
both  up  into  fine  dice.  Divide  this  into  two  parts.  To 
one  part  add  stale  white  bread  soaked  in  •  milk  and 
squeezed  dry,  half  of  the  blood,  salt,  grated  lemon  rind, 
pepper,  ground  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  minced  onion 
fried  in  lard  and  enough  melted  lard  to  make  it  rather 
moist.  Mix  well,  fill  thoroughly  cleaned  casings,  fasten 
the  ends  and  boil.  Add  barley  that  has  been  boiled  in 
water  to  the  other  half,  the  rest  of  the  blood,  salt,  pep- 
per and  spices  as  above,  put  in  casings  and  boil. 


62  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

178.    BOLOGNA   SAUSAGE. 

Uzenice. 
Take  two  parts  of  beef  and  one  part  of  pork,  minee 
fine,  add  salt  and  pepper,  mix  well  and  with  this  till 
thoronghly  cleaned  casings.  Put  them  to  smoke  the 
next  day  and  smoke  two  days.  Before  using,  bake  half 
an  hour,  in  a  little  water. 

179.  WINE  SAUSAGES. 

Klobásy. 
Mince  fine  a  piece  of  pork  from  the  neck.  Use  one 
part  of  white  bread  soaked  in  cream  to  three  parts  of 
meat.  Add  pepper,  mace,  grated  lemon  rind,  salt, 
a  little  white  wine,  work  together  about  ten  minutes 
and  put  into  thoroughly  cleaned  mutton  casings.  Or 
you  may  use  two  parts  of  pork,  one  part  of  veal,  minced 
fine,  moistened  with  cream  and  spiced  with  salt,  pep- 
per, etc.  as  above.  For  wine  sausage,  the  casings  may 
be  left  quite  long  and  should  be  rolled  up  in  a  spiral. 
They  will  not  keep,  especially  in' warm  weather,  so  must 
be  used  right  away.  Before  serving,  fry  in  a  skillet,  as 
you  would  breakfast  sausage,  adding  a  little  wine  to 
the  water. 

180.    HEAD  CHEESE. 

Masovfj  sýr. 
Boil  pork  from  the  leg,  the  head  (trim  off  the  fat 
around  the  chin),  the  ears,  snout  and  tongue  (you  may 
use  a  beef  tongue  also).  When  done,  trim  out  the  bones, 
cartilages  etc.,  skin  the  tongue,  cut  all  into  small  pieces. 
Have  ready  a  round  form,  such  as  a  bucket.  In  the 
bottom  place  a  layer  of  meat  from  111  o  leg,  dust  with  salt, 
pepper,  mace,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  ears  and  snout, 
dust  with  salt,  etc.,  then  a  layer  of  the  tongue  and  con- 
tinue until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover,  place  a  weight  on 
top,  and  let  stand  thus  over  night  in  a  cool  place.  Tlie 
next  day  take  this  cheese  out,  slice  and  serve  with 
mustard,  oil  and  vinegar,    or  sliced  lemon.     This  must 


VEAL.  63 

all  be  packed  wliile  warm,  otherwise  it  will  not  stick  to- 
gether. When  taking  the  cheese  out,  run  a  sharp  knife 
around,  so  it  will  fall  out  whole.  You  may  use  ground 
cloves  or  sage  instead  of  mace.  If  you  wish,  you  may  line 
the  form  with  thoroughly  cleaned  and  boiled  pork  skins. 

181.  PRESSED  BLOOD  SAUSAGE. 

Baclior, 
Boil  the  head,  snout,  ears,  tongue,  and  a  piece  of 
meat  from  the  neck.  When  done,  cool  and  cut  into  dice, 
add  rendered  lard  and  the  cracklings,  fresh  blood, 
salt,  pepper,  ginger,  allspice,  minced  onion  fried  in  lard 
and  mix  well.  Fill  a  thoroughly  cleaned  pork  stomach 
with  this  and  boil  half  an  hour  in  the  same  liquor. 
When  you  pierce  it  with  a  toothpick  and  no  blood  runs 
out,  it  is  done.  Place  it  in  a  press  wliile  warm,  or  put 
a  heavy  weight  on  it.  If  you  add  a  nice  beef  tongue  to 
this,  it  will  be  extra  good.  It  is  served  sliced  fine,  with 
vinegar  and.  pepper  or  vinegar  and  onion. 

Veal. — Teleci  maso. 

182.    VIENNA    SCHNITZEL. 

Vídenské  nzl-y. 
For  this  use  veal  steak,  m^edium  thick.  Cut  into 
medium  sized  pieces,  pound  each  well,  dust  with  salt 
and  flour,  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  golden  brown  in  butter  or  lai:d.  Arrange  on  a  plat- 
ter and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon.  You  may  omit  the 
egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  you  may  use  half  butter  and 
half  lard. 

183.    BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Teleci   hotlethy. 
Trim  veal  cutlets  from  the  ribs,     scraping  off  the 
end  of  the  bone  about  an  inch  in  length.    Pound,  dust 
with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in 


64  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

bread  crumbs  and  fry  golden  brown  in  hot  fat.     These 
are  good  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

184.    VEAL  CUTLETS,  PRAGUE  STYLE. 

Pi-ažsTié  kotletl-y. 
Use  a  pound  of  veal  from  the  ribs,  take  out  tlie 
bones,  trim  off  the  skin  etc.  and  mince  fine  with  a 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  beef  marrow,  one  small  onion,  a 
little  green  parsley  and  grated  lemon  rind,  add  salt  and 
mix  together  well.  Form  small  cutlets  of  this,  dip  in  a 
beaten  Qgg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  attach  to  each  a 
well  scraped  rib,  then  fry  in  butter  or  lard.  Arrange 
on  a  platter,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  garnish  with 
fried  potatoes  or  vegetables  and  serve. 

185.    STEWED   CUTLETS. 

Dušené  telecí  řízky. 
Cut  veal  steak  into  medium  sized  pieces,  dust  with 
salt  and  interlard  with  bacon.  Place  in  a  saucepan  a 
piece  of  fresh  butter,  half  a  carrot  sliced,  one  onion 
sliced,  add  beef  soup  and  stew  the  veal  in  this  quickly, 
until  browned  on  both  sides.  If  the  liquor  evaporates, 
add  soup  from  time  to  time.  Place  in  another  saucepan 
a  piece  of  butter,  about  four  tablespoons  of  small  onions, 
a  little  water  and  stew  until  tender.  In  another  sauce- 
pan blend  a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour,  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  let  it  bubble  a  while. 
When  the  meat  is  done,  arrange  on  a  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  it,  garnish  with  the  stewed  onions  and  serve. 

186.    CUTLETS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Telecí  řízky  se  žampiony. 
Cut  veal  steak  into  medium  sized  pieces,  pound  and 
dust  with  salt.  In  a  saucepan  place  four  or  five  slices 
of  bacon,  put  the  meat  on  them,  put  sliced  onion  on  the 
meat,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  grated  lemon  rind 
and  melted  butter,  cover  and  stew  until  tender, 
adding  from  time  to  time  a  little  wine  and  beef 
soup.     Clean    thoroughly    fresh    mushrooms    and    slice 


VEAL.  65 

thin.  There  should  be  a  plateful  of  them.  Heat  three 
tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  mushrooms, 
sprinkle  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  small  onion 
minced  fine,  salt,  and  stew  until  tender.  Place  the  meat 
in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  the  stewed  mushrooms  and  serve. 

187.  STUFFED  VEAL  BRISKET. 

Teleci  lirudi  nadívané. 

Ask  the  butcher  to  make  an  opening  in  the  brisket, 
or  you  may  do  so  yourself  with  a  sharp  knife.  Make 
a  dressing  as  follows:  cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
add  two  eggs,  salt,  one  onion  minced  fine,  half  a 
cup  of  milk,  minced  parsley,  grated  lemon  rind,  a  pinch 
of  mace  and  pepper,  and  enough  grated  bread  crumbs 
to  form  a  rather  thin  batter.  Mix  thoroughly  and  stuff 
into  the  opening,  sewing  it  up  with  white  thread.  Salt 
and  pepper  the  meat  all  over,  place  in  the  pan  with 
the  ribs  on  top,  dot  bits  of  butter  over  it,  add  a  little 
hot  water  and  roast,  basting  frequently.  It  is  well  to 
dust  all  roast  veal  with  grated  bread  crumbs,  adding 
them  after  it  has  been  roasting  about  an  hour,  as  veal 
gets  too  dry  in  the  oven  and  the  bread  crumbs  pre- 
vent this. 

188.  ROAST  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

Ledvinková  'pečené. 

Wash  three  or  four  pounds  of  veal  from  the  loin  with 
the  kidney,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  pan, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  add  a  little  hot  water  and  roast 
in  the  oven.  When  browned  on  one  side,  turn.  While 
the  meat  is  roasting,  iiib  butter  over  the  to]3  four  or 
five  times.  About  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  sprinkle 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top.  If  the  liquor  evaporates, 
add  hot  water,  and  baste  frequently,  so  the  bread 
crumbs  will  adhere  to  the  meat. 

Cook  Book  5 


66  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

189.    ROAST  PICKLED  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

Naložená  ledvinková  yeceně. 
In  a  saucepan  place  one  sliced  onion,  a  few  whole 
peppers,  allspice,  cloves,  a  cup  of  water,  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  boil  half  an  hour  and  cool.  Wash  a  piece 
of  veal  from  the  loin  with  the  kidney,  place  in 
a  crock,  pour  the  liquor  on  it  and  allow  the 
meat  to  stand  thus  three  or  four  days,  turning  it  each 
day.  On  the  third  or  fourth  day  take  it  out,  interlard 
with  bacon,  and  dust  with  salt.  Place  in  a  baking  pan 
with  sliced  onion,  carrot,  celery  root,  parsley  root,  a  cup 
of  the  liquor  in  which  it  has  been  pickled,  and  roast. 
When  done,  cut  in  slices  and  arrange  in  a  heated  dish. 
Beat  three  yolks  with  a  little  beef  soup,  add  to  the 
liquor  in  the  pan  and  when  the  sauce  begins  to  bubble, 
pour  over  the  meat.  It  is  well  to  baste  this  roast  with 
wine  or  cream.  Veal  roast  from  the  leg  may  be  prepared 
in  this  manner  also. 

190.    STEWED  LEG  OF  VEAL. 

Dušená  teleci  hýta. 
Interlard  a  leg  of  veal  with  bacon,  which  has  been 
dusted  with  ground  allspice,  pej^per,  cloves,  mace,  finely 
minced  onion  and  parsley,  then  dust  the  meat  with  salt 
and  place  in  a  kettle.  Add  onion,  carrots,  lemon,  orange 
rind,  each  sliced,  a  cup  of  good  white  wine,  a  little  cog- 
nac, several  tablespoons  of  beef  soup,  a  teaspoon  of  su- 
gar and  spices  to  taste.  Cover  well  and  stew  over  an 
even  fire.  When  done,  serve  with  the  strained  liqour 
poured  over  it. 

191.    ROAST  LEG  OF  VEAL. 

Pečená  teleci  hýta. 
Clean  and  trim  a  nice  leg  of  veal,  dry  with  a  nap- 
kin, dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a  baking  pan, 
stick  four  cloves  into  the  meat,  add  half  an  onion  sliced, 
one  small  bay  leaf,  a  little  water,  half  a  cup  of  butter 
and  roast  two  hours  in  the  oven.    Then  turn  it,  sprinkle 


VEAL.  67 

grated  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  dot  with  bits  of  but- 
ter and  roast  to  a  golden  brown,  basting  frequently. 
Serve  with  the  strained  liquor  poured  over  it. 

192.    LEG  OF  VEAL  WITH  ANCHOVIES. 

Teleci  kýta  se  sardelemi. 
Trim  a  leg  of  veal,  cutting  away  the  skin  and  pound 
well.  Clean  and  bone  four  anchovies,  cut  them  into  thin 
strips,  also  cut  into  strips  two  cloves  of  garlic.  With  a 
thin  sharply  pointed  knife  gash  the  meat  and  stuff 
each  gash  with  the  anchovies  and  garlic,  cover  the 
meat  with  a  najikin  and  allow  it  to  stand  thus  half  an 
hour.  Then  proceed  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  except 
that  you  may  use  anchovy  paste  instead  of  ordinary 
butter.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  add  half  a  cup  of 
good  cream.    Serve  with  the  sauce. 

193.    LEG  OF  VEAL  WITH  WINE  GRAVY. 

Teleci  kýta  s  vinnou  omáčkou. 
Trim  off  the  fat,  skin  etc.  from  a  five  or  six  pound 
leg  of  veal.  Interlard  with  strips  •of  bacon,  dust  with 
salt.  Place  in  the  baking  pan  two  sliced  onions,  one 
sliced  carrot,  one  sliced  celery  root,  one  sliced  par- 
sley root,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  place  the  meat 
in  this.  Dot  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top,  add 
two  cups  of  hot  water  and  roast  in  the  oven. 
When  half  done,  add  a  cup  of  white  sour  wine. 
When  ready  to  serve,  melt  half  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour  and  then  add  half  a  cup 
of  sour  cream.  Turn  the  leg  with  the  side  up  that  will 
be  on  top  wlien  on  the  table,  pour  the  sauce  (butter, 
flour  and  cream)  over  it,  a  little  at  the  time,  and  continue 
until  all  is  used  up.  That  is,  sprinkle  a  little  over  the 
meat  and  when  it  has  been  absorbed,  repeat  etc. 
When  it  is  well  done,  rub  butter  over  it  and  allow  it  to 
brown.  Strain  the  liquor,  add  half  a  cup  of  wine,  a  piece 
of  lemon  rind  and  let  it  simmer  together.  Mix  half  a 
CU13  of  cream  with  one  teaspoon   of  flour  until  smooth, 


68  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

add  it  to  the  boiling  liquor,  stirring  constantly.    Salt  to 
taste  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

194.    VEAL  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY. 

Teleci  maso  se  smetanovou  omáčkou. 
Cut  two  pounds  of  veal  into  dice  an  inch  and  a  half 
square  and  dust  with  salt.  Place  a  piece  of  butter  and 
one  large  minced  onion  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  meat, 
and  let  it  bake  brown.  Mix  together  until  smooth  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  a  pint  of 
sour  cream  and  a  pinch. of  pepper,  add  a  slice  of  lemon 
and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point.  When  it  bubbles, 
strain  and  pour  it  over  the  meat  and  serve  same  with 
fried  potatoes. 

195.    VEAL  WITH  PAPRIKA. 

Teleci  maso  s  paprikou. 
Wash  two  pounds  of  veal  and  cut  into  medium  sized 
pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan  three  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter and  two  finely  minced  onions.  When  it  bubbles,  add 
the  meat,  salt,  cover  and  stew  until  tender,  then  add 
several  tablespoons  ctf  beef  soup,  dust  with  flour,  add  a 
pinch  of  paprika  and  stew  a  while  longer.  Then  add  a 
cup  of  sour  cream  and  when  it  bubbles,  take  out  the 
meat,  pour  over  it  the  strained  gravy  and  serve. 

196.  VEAL  WITH  LEMON  GRAVY. 

Teleci  maso  s  citrónovou  omáčkou. 
Slice  veal  from  the  shoulder  into  medium  sized 
pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan,  pour  beef  soup  over  it  and 
stew  half  an  hour.  Then  blend  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter with  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  thin  this  with  the 
liquor  in  which  the  meat  has  stewed  and  put  the  meat 
back  into  the  gravy.  Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a 
bit  of  grated  lemon  rind  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Stew  the 
meat  in  this  until  tender  and  serve. 

197.  VEAL  WITH  CARAWAY  SEED. 

Teleci  maso  s  kmínem. 
Cut    two   pounds  of  veal    into    small   pieces,    place 
in  a  saucepan,  add  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter,  a 


VEAL.  69 

little  salt,  caraway  seed,  water,  and  stew  rapidly.  When 
tender,  dust  with  flour,  add  a  little  boiling  water, 
when  it  bubbles  a  moment  or  two,  serve. 

198.    VEAL  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Teleci  maso  s  rajskými  jdblhy. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  one  sliced  onion,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  eight  tomatoes,  and  allow  this  to  stew. 
When  done,  dust  with  three  tablespoons  of  flour,  stir, 
add  two  cups  of  beef  soup  and  two  or  three  tablespoons 
of  vinegar,  a  wineglass  of  wine,  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon 
rind,  half  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  and  simmer 
half  an  hour,  then  strain.  Cut  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
veal  steak  into  medium  sized  pieces,  put  them  into  the 
sauce,  which  has  been  strained,  and  stew  three  quarters 
of  an  hour. 

199.    VEAL  WITH  CAULIFLOWER. 

Teleci  maso  s  I'arfiolem. 
Cut  two  pounds  of  veal  steak  or  shoulder  into  pieces 
and  stew  half  an  hour.  Clean  and  take  apart  one  large  or 
two  small  heads  of  cauliflower  and  stew  in  beef  soup. 
Blend  butter  and  flour,  thin  this  with  soup  in  which 
you  have  stewed  the  cauliflower,  add  salt,  and  let  this 
sauce  simmer  a  while,  then  add  a  pinch  of  mace,  put  the 
meat  into  the  sauce,  place  the  cauliflower  on  the  meat, 
allow  all  to  simmer  together  a  while  longer  and  serve. 

200.    VEAL  WITH  WINE  GRAVY. 

Teleci  maso  s  vínem. 
Cut  two  pounds  of  veal  brisket  into  small  pieces 
and  stew  in  beef  soup.  When  the  liquor  ceases  to  foam, 
add  a  wineglass  of  white  wine,  a  few  cloves,  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  two  or  three  slices  of  lemon  (without  the 
rind)  and  stew  half  an  hour.  Then  strain  the  liquor, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter  blended  togetlier.  Place 
the  meat  in  the  sauce  and  stew  a  while  longer,  then  add 
two  beaten  yolks  and  serve. 


70  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

201.   FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL. 

T elect  frikando. 
Pound  two  pounds  of  veal  steak,  trim  off  the  skin 
and  interlard  with  bacon.  Place  in  a  saucepan  a  slice 
of  bacon  and  a  slice  of  ham,  both  minced,  a  finely  minced 
onion,  parsley  and  celery,  add  the  meat  and  stew  it  in 
this,  adding  a  little  beef  soup  from  time  to  time.  When 
the  meat  is  tender,  place  in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  the 
strained  sauce  and  garnish  with  lemon  cut  in  quarters. 

202.  STUFFED  VEAL  ROLLS. 

Teleci  závitky. 
Mince  fine  a  slice  of  ham  or  any  roasted  meat, 
a  piece  of  bacon,  minced  onion  or  chives,  and  fry  all 
together  in  butter.  Add  minced,  stewed  or  canned 
mushrooms,  a  dash  of  pepper,  two  eggs,  mix  together 
and  thin  with  beef  soup.  Take  veal  steak  sliced 
thin,  pound  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  dust  with  salt 
and  pepper,  spread  over  it  the  foregoing  mixture, 
roll  and  fasten  around  with  white  thread.  Place  in  a 
skillet,  add  minced  onion  and  bacon,  cover  and  stew 
slowly  about  an  hour,  adding  a  little  soup  from  time  to 
time.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  liquor  and  the  remainder  of 
the  mixture.  When  the  rolls  are  done,  take  off  the 
thread,  arrange  on  a  dish,  pour  the  strained  sauce  over 
them  and  garnish  with  sliced  lemon.  You  may  add  wine 
to  the  sauce,  if  you  wish.  The  rolls  may  be  spread  with 
ordinary  stuffing. 

203.  HASH  OF  CALF'S  HEAD. 

Teleci  hlava  sekaná. 
Boil  a  thoroughly  cleaned  calf's  head  in  salted  wa- 
ter. When  done,  take  out.  the  bones  and  cut  the  meat 
into  dice.  Mince  fine  a  piece  of  veal  and  a  piece  of  veal 
suet  from  the  kidney,  add  a  minced  onion,  a  pinch  of 
grated  lemon  rind,  two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk 
and  squeezed  dry,  mix  together  well  and  rub  to  a  paste, 
then  add  three  scrambled  eggs,  four  anchovies  rubbed 


VEAL.  71 

to  a  paste  with  butter,  six  yolks,  six  tablespoons  of 
cream,  salt  and  mix.  Grease  a  baking  dish,  put  in  it 
half  of  the  mixture,  then  a  layer  of  the  diced  meat, 
sprinkle  with  lemon  sauce,  then  another  layer  of  the 
mixture,  sprinkle  the  top  with  melted  butter  and  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

204.    VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Teleci  liarhanátky. 
Mince  fine  two  pounds  of  veal  steak.  Cream  two 
heaping  tablespoons  of  butter  or  two  tablespoons  of 
marrow,  add  two  eggs,  cream  together,  and  add  this  to 
the  meat.  Add  four  slices  of  bread,  grated,  the  rind 
of  half  a  lemon,  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mace  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Form  meat  cakes,  dip  in  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  brown  in  butter.    Serve  with  lemon  cut  in  quarters. 

205.  VEAL   LOAF. 

Teleci  seli'anina. 

Mince  fine  two  pounds  of  veal  steak.  Cream  two 
salt  pork  (or  use  a  fourth  of  a  ]X)und  of  butter  in- 
stead of  salt  pork).  Add  three  eggs,  one  minced  onion 
fried  in  butter,  two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk,  two 
tablespoons  of  cream,  one  clove  of  garlic  mashed  to  a 
paste,  a  dash  of  grated  lemon  rind,  salt  and  pepper. 
Work  all  together  thoroughly  several  minutes,  then 
form  a  loaf,  place  in  a  greased  pan,  dot  butter  over  the 
top,  add  two  tablespons  of  water  and  bake  about  two 
hours,  basting  often. 

206.  VEAL  HASH. 

Sekané  teleci. 
Mince  fine  about  two  cups  of  left-over  veal.  Blend 
two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one  of  flour  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  minced  onion  until  a  light  brown  color,  add  a 
little  minced  parsley,  thin  with  beef  soup;  if  you  have 
any  liquor  left  from  the  roast,  add  that,  and  simmer  all 
about  ten  minutes.    Then  add  the  minced  meat,  a  little 


72  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

salt,  minced  or  grated  lemon  rind,  cover  and  allow  this 
to  stand  on  the  stove,  but  it  must  not  boil  or  simmer. 
Sprinkle  lemon  juice  over  it  and  serve. 

207.    SWEETBREADS  WITH  BROWN  GRAVY. 

Brzliky   s    hnédou   omáčkou. 

Wash  four  veal  sweetbreads  and  parboil  in  salted 
water,  then  throw  them  in  cold  water,  trim  out  the 
undesirable  portions  and  slice  thin.  Mince  green  par- 
sley, six  green  onions,  a  few  mushrooms  and  stew 
all  together  half  an  hour.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  arrange  the  sliced  sweetbreads  in  it,  dust 
them  with  salt,  and  fry  on  botli  sides.  Add  the  minced 
mixture,  two  cups  of  brown  gravy,  soup  or  hot  water, 
and  stew  fifteen  minutes.  Before  serving,  take  out  the 
sweetbreads,  skim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  add  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  salt  if  necessary,  and  serve.  Brown  gravy  for 
this  is  prepared  thus:  slice  an  onion,  a  carrot,  a  parsley 
root  and  fry 'a  few  moments  in  three  tablespoons  of  hot 
butter,  add  half  a  wineglass  of  white  wine,  salt  and  pep- 
per.   Simmer  a  while  and  strain. 

208.    FRIED  SWEETBREADS. 

Smažené  telecí  'brzliky. 

Wash  veal  sweetbreads,  soak  them  fifteen  minutes 
in  tepid  water,  to  whiten  them.  Then  place  them  in 
boiling  salted  water,  boil  five  minutes,  drain  and  pour 
cold  water  over  them.  Trim  out  the  undesirable  parts, 
slice  thin  and  dust  with  salt.  Beat  two  eggs  with  a 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  dip  the  sweetbreads  in  it 
and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  good  butter  until 
light  brown,  arrange  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  lemon 
juice  and  serve. 

209.    FRICASEED  SWEETBREADS. 

Zadělávané  hrzUky. 

Boil  several  sweetbreads  in  salted  water  five 
minutes,  then  cool  in  cold  water,  trim  and  quarter.    Put 


VEAL.  73 

in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  grated  onion,' 
a  pinch  each  of  minced  parsley,  and  finely  minced 
lemon  rind,  salt,  and  stew  several  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time, blend  butter  and  flour  a  light  brown,  thin  with 
beef  soup  and  simmer  until  smooth.  Add  a  little  lemon 
juice  to  the  sauce,  put  the  sweetbreads  in  it,  simmer 
all  together  about  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

210.  SWEETBREADS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Brzlihy  s  houbami. 
Soak  sweetbreads  in  salted  tepid  water  one  hour, 
then  put  them  on  the  stove  and  boil  two  minutes,  then 
throw  them  into  cold  water.  Trim  and  interlard  with 
bacon.  Blend  butter  and  flour  until  a  light  brown,  thin 
with  beef  or  chicken  soup.  When  smooth,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  wine,  put  the  sweetbreads  in  the  sauce  and 
stew.  When  about  done,  add  mushrooms  that  have 
been  stewed  in  wine,  and  when  all  has  simmered  to- 
gether two.  or  three  minutes,  arrange  the  sweetbreads 
in  a  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  them  and  garnish  with 

the  mushrooms. 

» 

211.    CALF'S  LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Teleci  játra  se  spelt  em. 
Fry  six  or  eight  slices  of  bacon.  When  done,  arrange 
on  a  warm  plate  and  keep  in  a  warm  place.  Fry  sliced 
liver  in  the  bacon  fat,  having  dusted  it  with  pepper, 
flour  and  caraway  seed,  adding  salt  when  done.  Serve 
with  the  bacon. 

212.    CALF'S  LIVER  WITH  CREAM. 

Teleci  játra  s  kyselou  omáčkou. 
Wash  the  liver,  trim  off  the  skin  and  interlard  with 
strips  of  bacon  rolled  in  pepper.  Place  fresh  lard 
in  a  saucepan,  add  sliced  onion,  sliced  carrots,  leek, 
celery  and  parsley  roots,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  pinch  of 
thyme.-  Add  the  liver  to  this  and  bake  in  the  oven  un- 
til a  light  brown,  then  add  half  a  wineglass  of  vinegar,  a 


74  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

cup  of  sour  cream,  two  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs, 
and  allow  the  liver  to  stew  slowly,  basting  frequently. 
Add  salt  before  serving.  Never  salt  liver  or  kidneys 
until  serving,  as  it  makes  tliem  tough.  Skim  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  strain  and  serve  with  the  liver. 

213.    STEWED  CALF'S  LIVER. 

Dušená  telecí  játra. 
Wash  the  liver,  trim  off  all  the  skin,  and  slice  thin. 
Fry  one  minced  onion  in  butter,  add  the  sliced  liver, 
dust  with  pepper  and  stew,  turning  the  liver  frequently. 
It  must  be  done  just  right;  if  overdone,  it  will  be 
tough.  Before  serving,  add  salt  and  if  you  like,  a  dash 
of  grated  lemon  rind. 

214.    LIVER   DUMPLINGS. 

Jaterni  hnedlilcy. 
Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  six  eggs, 
three  cloves  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste  with  salt, 
the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  pinch  of  ground  all- 
spice, white  pepper,  marjoram,  salt,  and  mix  all  to- 
gether well.  Grate  two  pounds  of  fresh  liver,  adď  to 
the  foregoing,  then  add  enough  grated  bread  or  rolled 
crackers  to  form  into  balls,  remembering  that  you  must 
allow  room  for  the  bread  crumbs  to  swell.  Let  this 
stand  half  an  hour,  then  form  balls  the  size. of  an  egg 
or  a  small  apple,  and  boil  half  an  hour  in  salted  water. 
When  done,  cut  in  halves,  sprinkle  with  grated  bread 
crumbs,  melted  butter  and  serve. 

215.    VEAL  KIDNEYS  WITH  SOUR  GRAVY. 

Telecí  ledvinhj  na  Jcyselo. 
Veal  kidneys  are  prepared  the  same  as  liver  with 
cream  (No.  212).    The  kidneys  are  sliced  thin. 

216.    STEWED  VEAL  KIDNEYS. 

Dušené  telecí  ledvinky. 
These  are  prepared  the  same  as  stewed  liver  (No. 
213). 


VEAL.  75 

217.  BAKED  VEAL  PLUCK. 

Pečené  telecí  osrdi. 
Boil  the  pluck  (lungs  and  heart)  in  salted  water, 
then  slice,  take  out  all  the  veins,  fat,  etc.,  and  mince 
fine.  Cream  three  tablespoons  of  butter  or  lard,  add 
three  eggs,  a  pinch  each  of  grated  lemon  rind,  marjoram, 
pepper,  a  clove  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste,  the  minced 
pluck,  two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk  and  squeezed 
dry,  a  slice  of  bread  grated,  and  mix  all  together  well. 
Grease  a  baking  dish,  dust  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  the  mixture  in  it  an  hour.  Serve  with  anchovy 
of  caper  sauce. 

218.  STEWED  VEAL  PLUCK. 

Zadělávané  telecí  hrudi. 
Wash  thoroughly  and  boil  a  veal  pluck  until  ten- 
der, cool  and  cut  into  fine  strips.  Blend  two  tablespoons 
of  butter  with  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  a 
minced  onion  and  fry  until  light  brown,  then  add 
minced  parsley,  thin  with  beef  soup,  to  this  add  the 
pluck,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  a  tablespoon  of 
browned  sugar,  vinegar  to  taste,  and  simmer  half  an 
hour.  Before  serving,  add  salt  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon. 

219.  BAKED  VEAL  HASLET. 

Pečené  telecí  oJcruží. 
Wash  and  boil  the  haslet,  mince  fine,  add  a  piece 
of  butter  or  lard,  four  slices  of  bread  grated,  three  eggs, 
a  bit  of  minced  parsley,  chives  or  leek,  a  dash  of  mace, 
pepper,  grated  lemon  rind  and  mix  thoroughly.  Grease 
a  baking  dish,  dust  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in 
the  oven. 

220.    CALVES'  BRAINS  WITH  EGGS. 

Telecí  mozelc  s  vejci. 

Soak  two  brains  half  an  hour  in  tepid  water,  then 

trim  away  all  the  membranes  and  wash  in  cold   water. 

Stew  one  minced  onion  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of 

butter,  add  the  brains  which  you  have  salted  and  sea- 


76  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

soned  with  a  dash  of  mace,  and  when  nearly  done,  add 
four  eggs  and  scramble. 

221.  FRIED  CALVES'  BRAINS. 

Smažený  telecí  mozeh. 

Soak  calves'  brains  half  an  hour  in  tejiid  water, 
then  trim  off  all  membranes  and  place  in  cold  water. 
Dry  in  a  napkin,  cut  each  in  half,  dust  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  flour,  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread 
crumbs,  fry  golden  brown  in  butter  and  serve  with  le- 
mon cut  in  quarters. 

222.  CALVES'  BRAINS  TOAST. 

Pavczhi]  z  viozliii." 
Clean  the  brains,  parboil,  mince  fine,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  a  pinch  each  of  minced  chives,  minced  parsley, 
grated  lemon  rind  and  mix  together.  Prepare  very 
thin  slices  of  stale  bread,  spread  each  with  the  mixture 
and  put  another  slice  on  top,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then 
in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  golden  brown  in  butter. 

223.  CALF'S  TONGUE. 

Telecí   jazyk. 
This  is  prepared  the  same  as  beef  tongue. 

224.    FRIED  TONGUE  CUTLETS. 

Jazykové  řízky. 
Cut  boiled  tongue  in  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
Beat  one  or  two  eggs  with  a  tablespoon  of  water,  add 
a  dash  of  nutmeg,  salt  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 
Dip  the  slices  in  bread  crumbs  and  then  in  the  eggs 
and  fry  on  both  sides  in  butter. 

225.    FRIED   CALF'S  FEET. 

Smažené  telecí  nožičky. 
Boil  the  feet  until  tender,    dry,    cut  each  in  four 
pieces,  take  out  the  larger  bones,  salt,  dip  in  flour,  then 
in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  crackers 
and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  butter. 


MUTTON.  77 

Mutton. — :Skopové  maso. 

226.    MUTTON  CHOPS. 

Sl'opovG   řízky. 
Dust  the  chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  you  like, 
rub  with  a  bit  of  mashed  garlic,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot 
butter.    They  should  be  done  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes. 

227.    BREADED    MUTTON    CHOPS. 

SI' opové  kotletkij. 
Dust  cutlets  or  chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
melted  butter  or  lard,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a 
golden  brown  in  hot  fat.     Serve   with   tomato  or  other 
sauce 

228.    MUTTON    CUTLETS. 

Smažené  sJcopové  řízky. 

Trim  the  end  bone  of  the  cutlet  clean,  so  it  may  be 

taken  up  with  the  fingers.    Dust  with  salt,  pepper,  and 

fry  quickly  in  hot  butter.    They  should  be  done  in  five 

or  six  minutes. 

229.    ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Pečená  skopová  kýta. 
Wash  and  trim  a  leg  of  mutton,  dust  with  salt,  in- 
sert bits  of  garlic  over  the  surface,  place  in  a  pán  with 
a  little  water,  and  roast.  Eub '  butter  or  lard  over  it 
occasionally,  and  before  it  is  done,  baste  with  the  liquor, 
so  as  to  give  it  a  nice  color.  If  the  meat  is  not  very 
young,  you  will  have  to  pound  it  before  salting.  If 
very  old,  stew  it  first  in  a  kettle  and  then  roast.  Half 
an  hour  before  the  roast  is  done,  add  peeled  and  halved 
potatoes. 

230.    STUFFED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Nadívaná  skopová  kýta. 
Take  the  bone  out  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  and  cut  out 
enough  meat  to  make  a  good-sized  opening.  Fry  minced 
onions  and  anchovies  in  butter,  add  the  meat  (minced) 
which  you  took  out,  four  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs, 
four  tablespoons  of  sour  cream,  three  eggs,    salt    and 


78  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

mix  well.  Fill  the  opening  with  this  dressing  and  fasten 
so  that  it  will  not  drip  out.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  two 
sliced  onions,  two  sliced  carrots,  a  little  water,  melted 
butter,  add  the  mutton  and  roast  in  the  oven.  Baste 
from  time  to  time  with  a  little  sour  cream.  When  the 
meat  is  done,  take  out  the  fastenings  or  threads,  skim 
the  grease  from  the  gravy  and  serve. 

231.  PICKLED  LEG  OF  MUTTON  WITH 
CREAM  GRAVY. 

Naložená  shopová  hijta. 
Trim  a  leg  of  mutton  and  dust  with  salt.  Boil  to- 
gether a  cup  and  a  half  of  vinegar,  two  cups  of  water, 
one  large  sliced  onion,  six  cloves,  ten  allspice,  ten  black 
peppers,  a  bay  leaf,  a  piece  of  ginger,  two  cloves  of  gar- 
lic, cover  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Then  let  it  cool 
and  pour  over  the  leg  of  mutton.  Let  it  stand  thus  two 
or  three  days  in  summer  and  five  or  six  days  in  win- 
ter, turning  it  two  or  three  times  during  that  period. 
When  ready  to  bake  it,  interlard  with  strips  of  bacon, 
place  in  a  baking  pan,  add  about  half  of  the  brine, 
a  cup  of  water  and  a  piece  of  lemon  rind.  Put  bits  of 
butter  on  top  and  bake.  When  about  half  done,  baste 
with  five  or  six  tablespoons  of  good  sour  cream.  Turn 
over  once  while  baking  and  baste  frequently.  When 
done,  take  out  and  add  to  the  liquor  a  cup  of  sour  cream 
thickened  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour  and  a  beaten 
yolk,  strain  and  serve  with  potatoes  or  dumplings. 

232.  ROAST  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON. 

Pečený  shopovff  lirhet. 
Soak  a  saddle  of  mutton  three  days  in  sour  cream 
or  vinegar,  turning  it  frequently.  When  ready  to  use, 
trim  off  all  fat  and  skin,  interlard  with  bacon,  place 
in  a  baking  pan,  add  salt,  a  little  of  the  brine  in  which 
it  has  soaked,  a  little  water,  quite  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
cover  with  a  greased  paper.  Bake  three  hours,  basting 
frequently,  then  serve  with  potatoes  or  dumplings. 


MUTTON.  79 

233.   MUTTON  WITH  CARROTS. 

Skopové  s  mrkví. 
Stew  mutton  ribs  in  a  little  salted  water,  adding 
any  vegetables  you  may  have  to  flavor  it.  Wash  and 
scrape  six  or  eight  carrots  and  cut  them  into  slices  or 
short  strips.  Stew  the  carrots  in  a  saucepan  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  adding  from  time 
to  time  a  little  of  the  broth  from  the  meat,  and  stew  un- 
til tender.  Then  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  blended 
together  until  a  light  brown  (a  tablespoon  of  each),  put 
the  meat  in  the  gravy,  let  it  bubble  once  or  twice  and 
serve.  You  may  use  half  carrots  and  half  turnips,  or 
half  carrots  and  half  Savoy  cabbage,  or  Savoy  cabbage 
altogether. 

234,  MUTTON  STEW  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Bhopové  se  zeleným  hrášhem. 
Cut  into  dice  two  pounds  of  mutton  from  the 
shoulder.  Dust  with  flour  and  fry  brown  in  half  but- 
ter and  half  lard.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  water  to  co- 
ver, cover  and  stew  until  tender.  When  done,  take  the 
meat  out  and  skim  the  grease  from  the  liquor.  Before 
serving,  pour  the  skimmed  liquor  into  stewed  green 
peas,  stir  the  meat  into  them,  and  serve. 

235.   MUTTON  POT  PIE. 

Skopové  s  knedliky. 
Place  two  pounds  of  mutton  steak  in  a  kettle,  add 
half  a  sliced  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste 
with  salt,  salt  and  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat,  and 
stew  until  tender.  When  the  meat  is  done,  mix  two 
cups  of  flour  with  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  dash  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  of  baking  jDowder,  one  beaten  yolk  and  a 
cup  of  milk,  making  dough  as  for  biscuits.  Roll  out 
about  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  into  squares  about  two 
inches  across.  Be  sure  to  have  plenty  of  broth  on  the 
meat.  If  this  is  not  the  case,  add  enough  hot  water  to 
make  a  sufficient  quantity.    Place  the  pieces  of  dough 


80  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

over  tlie  meat,  cover  well,  so  that  no  steam  escapes,  and 
boil  ten  minutes.  Then  take  ont  the  meat  and  pie,  thicken 
the  liqnor  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with  half  a 
cup  of  milk  and  serve. 

236.    MUTTON   WITH    KOHLRABI. 

Sk opové  s  kedlubny. 

Stew  mutton  ribs  until  tender.  Peel  and  cut  into 
strips  young  kohl-rabi,  stew  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
little  butter,  pepper,  sugar  and  the  crisp  tops  minced 
fine.  When  the  meat  and  kohl-rabi  is  tender,  blend 
butter  and  flour  together,  thin -with  the  broth  in  which 
the  meat  has  stewed,  add  this  to  the  kohl-rabi,  flavor 
with  a  pinch  of  marjoram,  pour  over  the  meat  and  serve. 

237.  STEWED  SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 

Dušené  sk  opové  plece. 
Pound  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  trim  and  take  out  the 
bones,  dust  inside  and  out  with  salt,  roll  and  wind  a 
strong  thread  around  it.  Place  in  a  deep,  saucepan, 
add  a  cup  of  soup,  one  onion,  one  carrot  sliced,  a  bay 
leaf,  a  small  clove  of  garlic,  several  black  peppers,  two 
cloves,  a  bit  or  green  parsley  and  stew  until  brown. 
Then  add  another  cup  of  soup  and  stew  until  tender. 
"When  the  meat  is  done,  take  it  out,  remove  the  thread, 
skim  the  sauce,  add  a  teaspoon  of  Liebig's  Extract, 
strain  and  pour  over  the  meat. 

238.    MUTTON  BRISKET  WITH  RICE. 

Teleci  hrudí  s  rýží. 

Trim  a  mutton  brisket,  cut  off  the  lower  bone  and 
parboil  the  meat  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water,  then 
cool.  Now  trim  the  brisket  nicely  and  stew  in  beef 
soup  until  tender.  In  the  meantime  wash  one  large  cup 
of  rice,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  cups  of  water  and 
two  cups  of  the  meat  liquor,  an  onion  with  two  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  salt.  Cover  and  stew 
slowly  until  the  rice  is  done  and  has  absorbed  all  the 


MUTTON.  81 

liquid.  Arrange  the  rice  on  a  platter,  place  on  top  the 
meat  cut  into  slices,  pour  over  it  a  little  broth  in  which 
the  meat  has  stewed  and  serve. 

.     239.    STEWED  MUTTON  WITH  RICE. 

Zadělávané  skopové  maso  s  rýží. 

Cut  mutton  from  the  shoulder  or  ribs  into  medium 
sized  pieces  and  stew  with  various  vegetables  until  ten- 
der. To  two  pounds  of  meat  allow  one  cup  of  rice,  wash 
this  several  times  in  hot  water,  add  to  it  the  broth  in 
which  the  meat  is  stewing,  and  boil  until  tender.  Blend 
butter  and  flour  until  a  light  brown,  and  add  it  to  the 
rest  of  the  broth.  Place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  thickened  broth,  then  the  rice  and  finally  a  pinch 
of  mace.    Simmer  a  bit  longer  and  serve. 

240.    STEWED  MUTTON  WITH  VEGETABLE 

GRAVY. 

'Zadělávané  shopové   maso   s   omáčkou  ze  zeleniny. 

Cut  left-over  roast  into  small  pieces.  To  two  cups  of 
meat  allow  one  minced  onion  stewed  in  two  tablespoons 
of  butter  or  lard,  four  sliced  mushrooms,  dust  with 
flour,  add  a  wineglass  of  wine,  two  of  hot  water 
or  beef  soup,  and  simmer  slowly  half  an  hour,  then  add 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  meat  in  the  gravy  and  heat 
it  well,  but  do  not  boil.  Finally  add  a  tablespoon  of 
flour,  a  cup  of  hot  water  and  a  teaspoon  of  meat  extract. 
Arrange  on  a  dish,  dust  the  top  with  three  tablespoons 
of  bread  crumbs  and  serve. 

241.    MUTTON  WITH  MARJORAM  GRAVY. 

SkopovG  -  maso  s  marjánkovou  omáčkou. 

Stew  three  pounds  of  young  mutton  until  tender, 
then  cut  into  neat  pieces.  Blend  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
with  one  and  a  half*  tablespoons  of  flour  until  a  light 
brown,  thin  with  broth  from  the  meat,  place  the  meat 
in  it,  allow  for  each  pound  of  meat  one  clove  of  garlic 
mashed  to  a  paste  with  salt,  a  little  minced   parsley,  a 

Cook  Book  6 


82  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

pinch  of  marjoram  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Boil  small 
potatoes  in  their  skins.  When  done  peel,  add  to  the 
meat,  let  all  simmer  together  a  while.  Put  the  meat 
on  a  platter,  arrange  the  potatoes  around  it,  pour  the 
gravy  over  it  and  serve. 

242.  STEWED  MUTTON  HASH  WITH 
POACHED  EGGS. 

Skopová  sekanina  s  vejci. 

Mince  fine  the  remains  of  a  mutton  roast.  Mix 
brown  gravy,  half  as  much  beef  soup,  a  dash  of  salt, 
and  lemon  juice,  and  strain  over  the  minced  meat.  Set 
in  a  warm  place.  Before  serving,  place  over  a  quick 
fire,  stir  until  the  meat  begins  to  bubble,  then  arrange 
on  a  disli,  garnish  with  poached  eggs  and  serve. 

243.  STEWED   MUTTON    KIDNEYS    No.    1. 

Dušené  shopové  ledvinky. 

Slice  mutton  kidneys  thin  lengthwise  and  wash 
thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Stew  minced  onion  in  but- 
ter, add  the  kidneys,  sprinkle  over  them  a  dash  or  car- 
away seed  and  stew.  When  they  are  done,  add  salt, 
flour  or  bread  crumbs,  stew  a  few  moments  longer  and 
serve  with  fried  potatoes. 

244.  STEWED   MUTTON   KIDNEYS    No.    2. 

Dušené  skopové  ledvinky  na  jiný  způsol). 

Wash  mutton  kidneys,  boil  one  hour  in  salted  wa- 
ter, trim  off  the  skins,  cut  each  in  half  lengthwise,  and 
then  across  in  thin  slices.  Season  several  tablespoons  of 
flour  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  the  sliced  kidneys  in  it. 
Heat  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  minced  onion  and  fry 
the  kidneys  in  this  ten  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 
Then  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  cup  of  hot  water  or 
juice  from  a  roast,  a  cup  of  red  wine,  and  allow  all  to 
thicken,  but  do  not  boil. 


MUTTON.  83 

245.    STEWED    MUTTON    KIDNEYS   No.    3. 

Dušené  sl'Opove  ledvinlvy  ješté  na  jiný  způsob. 
Wash  mutton  kidneys,  dry,  cut  in  half  lengthwise, 
and  then  across  in  thin  slices.  Heat  a  piece  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  four  green  onions  sliced,  several 
sliced  mushrooms  and  minced  parsley,  stew  the  kidneys 
in  this  until  tender.  Then  take  them  out,  add  to  the 
liquor  several  tablespoons  of  hot  water  or  soup,  a  little 
flour,  and  mix  until  smooth.  Put  the  kidneys  back  in- 
to this,  add  salt,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  stew  a  bit  longer 
and  serve. 

246.  STEWED  MUTTON  TONGUES. 

Dušené  slvpové  jazyky. 
Soak  mutton  tongues  in  tepid  water  one  hour,  then 
parboil  fifteen  minutes,  cool,  skin,  cut  each  in  half 
lengthwise  and  dust  with  salt.  In  a  saucepan  place  a 
piece  of  butter,  cover  the  bottom  Avith  sliced  onion  about 
an  inch  thick,  arrange  the  halved  tongues  on  this,  dust 
with  pei3j)er,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  cover  and  stew  un- 
til tender.  The  onion  must  not  burn  or  be  very  brown, 
it  must  stew  just  like  the  tongues.  When  done,  arrange 
the  tongues  on  a  platter,  sprinkle  w^itli  lemon  juice  and 
serve. 

247.    MUTTON  TONGUES  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE. 

Sl'opove  jazyl'y  s  citrónovou  omáčkou. 
Stew  several  mutton  tongues  in  salted  water,  add- 
ing celery  and  parsley  roots,  a  carrot  and  half  an  onion. 
Then  skin  the  tongues,  cut  each  lengthwise  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan.  In  another  saucepan  place  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  one  of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a 
dash  of  grated  lemon  rind,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  blend 
all  together,  then  add  a  ladleful  of  broth  in  which  the 
tongues  have  boiled,  a  wineglass  of  white  wine,  mix, 
pour  over  the  tongues  and  simmer  a  while.  You  -may 
thicken  the  sauce  with  two  beaten  yolks,  if  you  wish. 


84  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Lamb.— Jehněčí  maso. 

248.    ROAST  HIND  SADDLE  OF  LAMB. 

Pečený  jelměčí  zadeJv. 

Wash  thoroughly,  salt  and  lay  in  the  baking  pan 
with  the  fleshy  side  down,  having  put  bntter  or  lard  in 
the  pan.  It  is  best  to  use  a  pan  with  bars  or  sticks  of 
wood  across  the  bottom  (the  wood  must  contain  no  ro- 
sin). Eoast  the  meat,  basting  and  rubbing  frequently 
with  butter,  adding  hot  soup  or  water,  if  necessary. 
When  more  than  half  done,  turn  over,  sprinkle  the  top 
with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  roast 
brown.  When  done,  pour  the  liquor  over  it  and  serve. 
A  saddle  of  lamb  requires  from  one  and  a  half  to  two 
hours  roasting,  according  to  size.  Saddle  of  kid  is 
roasted  in  the  same  manner. 

249.    FRIED    LAMB. 

Smažené  jelméoí. 
Cut  into  uniform  pieces  the  neck,  shoulder  and 
brisket  of  lamb,  dust  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  dip  in 
beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  rendered 
butter.  When  done,  dust  lightly  with  salt,  arrange  on 
a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

250.    LAMB   CUTLETS   No.  1. 

Jehněčí  hotletky. 
Pound  the  cutlets  slightly,  dust  with  salt,  and  fry 
on  both  sides  in  butter  two  minutes.  Trim  one  pound 
of  veal,  leaving  no  skin,  glands,  etc.  and  mince  or  grind 
together  with  one  pound  of  kidney  suet.  Add  salt,  a 
dash  of  nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  of  minced  and  fried  onion, 
three  eggs  and  mix  together.  Spread  this  on  both  sides 
of  the  cutlets,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  crumbs, 
fry  in  rendered  butter  eight  minutes.  Arrange  on  a 
platter,  garnish  with  peas  and  serve. 


LAMB.  85 

251.    LAMB  CUTLETS  No.  2. 

Jehněčí  hotletl-y  na  jiný  způsob. 
Fry  or  broil  quickly  lamb  cutlets,  salt,  arrange  on 
a  heated  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

252.    LAMB  STEAK. 

Jelméčí  nzJcy. 
Dust  the  steak  with  salt,    fry    quickly  in  rendered 
butter  or  lard,    or  broil.     Arrange  on  a  heated  platter, 
garnish  with  parsley  or  minced  fried  onion  and  serve. 

253.    STUFED  BRISKET  OF  LAMB. 

Nadívané  jelinččí  hrudi. 
Wash  the  brisket,  make  an  opening  and  fill  with 
dressing  the  same  as  for  veal,  sew  up  the  opening,  dust 
all  over  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  sliced  carrot  and 
onion  in  the  baking  pan,  put  in  the  meat,  pour  melted 
butter  or  lard  over  it,  add  a  little  hot  water  or  soup 
and  roast  about  an  hour,  basting  frequently.  When 
done,  take  it  out  and  allow  the  liquor  to  boil  down  with 
a  little  beef  soup,  skim  the  fat  and  pour  over  the  meat. 

254.  LEG  OF  LAMB  WITH  MINT  SAUCE. 

Jehněčí  kýta  s  mátovou  omáčkou. 
Trim  and  wash  the  leg,  pound  and  salt,  place  in  a 
baking  pan  with  lard  or  butter.  Dot  bits  of  butter  over 
the  top  and  roast,  adding  hot  water  or  soup  and  basting 
frequently.  Mix  four  tablesiDoons  of  minced  mint  leaves 
with  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  paprika,  add 
four  or  five  tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar,  adding  a  little 
at  the  time.  When  the  meat  is  done,  skim  the  fat,  pour 
the  liquor  over  it,  and  serve  with  the  mint  sauce  in  a 
separate  dish. 

255.  STEWED  LAMB  WITH  ANCHOVIES. 

Jehněčí  dušené  se  sardeJenii. 
Cut   the   fore    quarter  of  a  lamb    in    rather   small 
pieces.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan  Avith  three  or  four  table- 
spoons of  butter  or  lard,  sliced  celery  and  parsley  roots, 


86  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

salt,  and  stew,  adding  hot  water  or  soup,  if  necessary. 
Wash  and  bone  five  anchovies,  and  rub  to  a  paste  with 
butter.  Blend  half  a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  one  of 
flour,  add  the  anchovy  paste,  then  add  equal  parts  of 
soup  and  wine,  to  make  the  desired  amount  of  gravy. 
You  may  add  a  bit  of  canned  lobster.  Take  out  the 
stewed  meat,  strain  and  add  the  liquor  to  the  gravy, 
place  the  meat  in  it,  simmer  a  Avliile,  and  serve.  You 
may  omit  the  wine,  if  you  wish. 

256.    STEWED  LAMB  WITH  BUTTER  GRAVY. 

Jehněčí  s  máslovou  omáčkou. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  a 
sliced  onion  and  carrot,  put  in  this  a  lamb  forequarter 
cut  into  pieces,  add  salt  and  grated  lemon  rind  and  stew 
until  half  done.  In  another  saucepan  melt  three  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  blend  it  with  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  then  add  enough  soup  or  hot  water  to  form  a  ra- 
ther thick  gravy.  Now  add  several  black  peppers,  two 
cloves,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  minced  parsley  and  let  it  sim- 
mer a  while.  Pour  this  over  the  meat,  add  a  wineglass  of 
white  wine,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  stew  the  meat 
until  done.  When  done,  take  the  meat  out,  skim  and 
strain  the  sauce,  salt  and  serve. 

257.    FRICASEE  OF  LAMB. 

Zadělávané  jehněčí. 
Wash  thoroughly  a  forequarter  of  lamb  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water,  then  place  it  in  cold  wa- 
ter, cool  and  cut  into  medium  sized  pieces.  Blend  three 
tablespoons  of  butter  with  three  tablespoons  of  flour, 
thin  with  the  strained  liquor  from  the  meat,  add  a  small 
grated  onion,  a  dash  each  of  minced  parsley,  grated 
lemon  rind,  a  wineglass  of  wine  and  boil  until  smooth. 
Then  place  the  meat  in  the  sauce  and  stew  until  tender. 
When  done,  take  it  out,  add  to  tlie  simmering  gravy 
four  beaten  yolks  or  two  whole  eggs  beaten  with  a  little 
cream,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  pour  over  the  meat. 


LAMB.  87 

258.    LAMB  WITH  PAPRIKA  GRAVY. 

Jehněčí  s  paprikou. 
Wash  and  cut  into  pieces  a  f orequarter  of  lamb.  Place 
in  a  saucepan  four  tablespoons  of  good  butter,  one  onion, 
one  carrot,  leek  and  a  celery  root,  all  sliced.  Add  tlie 
meat,  salt  and  stew  until  half  done,  then  dust  with  a 
tablespoon  of  flour,  add  a  little  good  beef  soup  and  a 
cup  of  sour  cream.  Finally  add  a  pinch  of  paprika  and 
stew  the  meat  until  done.  When  done,  take  the  meat 
out,  skim  the  gravy,  add  salt  and  paprika ;  if  necessary, 
strain,  pour  over  the  meat  and  serve.  This  gravy  must 
be  rather  thick. 

259.    LAMB  KIDNEYS. 

Jehněčí  ledvinky. 
Wash  and  cut  lengthwise  several  lamb  kidneys, 
then  fry  in  butter  or  lard.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  a  small  minced  fried  onion,  several  minced  fried 
mushrooms,  minced  celery,  lemon  juice  to  taste,  a  piece 
of  good  butter.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  kidneys,  gar- 
nish with  potato  croquettes  and  serve. 

260.    LAMB   PLUCK. 

Jehněčí  osrclí. 
Wash  the  pluck,  cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a  crock 
or  stone  jar,  add  sliced  onion  and  carrot,  a  few  sprigs 
of  thyme  and  parsley,  a  few  bay  leaves,  salt,  pepper, 
mace,  vinegar  and  olive  oil  and  allow  the  meat  to  soak 
in  this  twelve  hours,  turning  frequently.  When  ready 
to  cook  it,  melt  a  piece  of  butter,  add  the  pluck,  stew  a 
while,  then  dust  with  flour,  pour  in  equal  parts  of  soup 
and  wine  and  stew  until  tender.  When  done,  take  the 
pluck  out,  strain  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve.  Lamb 
pluck  may  also  be  prepared  the  same  as  veal  pluck. 


88  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Poultry. — Drůbež. 

PREPARING  POULTRY. 

PHprava  drůbeže. 
All  poultry  should  be  killed  twenty-four  hours  be- 
fore using.    It  should  be  cleaned,  drawn  and  salted  im- 
mediately after  killing  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

261.    BROILED    SPRING   CHICKEN. 

Roštěné   kuře. 
Cut  spring  chickens  in  halves,  dust  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  broil  on  both  sides.    Eub  fresh  butter  over 
them  and  serve  hot, 

262.    ROAST  SPRING  .CHICKEN. 

Pečené  hůře. 
Salt  the  chickens,  dust  inside  with  a  .little  pepper, 
place  a  piece  of  butter  and  fresh  parsley  inside,  fasten 
the  drumsticks  together  and  put  the  chickens  in  the 
pan.  Add  a  piece  of  good  butter,  a  little  hot  water  or 
soup  and  roast  a  light  brown.  Baste  every  ten  minutes 
and  rub  butter  over  them  occasionally.  Pour  the  gravy 
over  the  chickens  and  serve. 

263.  ROAST  CHICKEN  WITH  GRAVY. 

Pečený  kohout  s  omáčkou. 
Cut  the  chicken  up,  dip  each  piece  in  a  beaten  egg 
and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  skillet,  add  a  lit- 
tle butter  or  lard,  minced  onion  and  caraway  seed,  co- 
ver and  bake  over  a  slow  fire.  When  done,  take  it  out, 
add  flour  to  the  gravy  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Then 
add  milk  to  make  a  gravy  of  the  proper  consistency. 

264.    FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Smažené  kuře. 

Chickens  weighing  one  or  one  and  a  half  pounds 

are  best  for  frying.     Cut  in  quarters  or  smaller  pieces, 

salt,  dip  in  flour,    then  in  a  beaten  egg    (to  which  has 

been  added  a  teaspoon    of  minced    parsley),    sprinkle 


POULTRY.  89 

thickly  with  bread  crumbs  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  to 
a  golden  brown  in  rendered  butter  or  lard.  When  fry- 
ing older  chickens,  it  is  best  to  dip  them  in  flour  only. 

265.  STUFFED   CHICKEN. 

Nadívané  hůře. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  roasting,  salt  inside  and 
out.  For  the  dressing  cream' two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
add  two  eggs,  half  an  onion  minced  fine  and  fried  in 
butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  mace 
and  enough  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs  to  make 
the  mixture  medium  stiff.  Stuff  the  chicken  with  this, 
sew  up  the  opening,  place  in  a  baking  pan,  dot  bits  of 
butter  over  the  top,  pour  water  under  it  and  bake,  bast- 
ing frequently. 

266.  STEWED    CHICKEN. 

Dušené   kuře. 

Salt  a  chicken  inside  and  out,  fasten  the  drumsticks 
together,  rub  butter  over  the  breast,  place  in  a  saucepan, 
add  an  onion,  carrot  and  parsley  root,  all  sliced,  a  few 
black  peppers,  a  bay  leaf,  a  slice  of  bacon,  and  enough 
good  soup  or  water  to  cover.  Cover  the  pan  tightly  and 
allow  the  chicken  to  stew,  turning  it  once.  When  done, 
take  it  out,  cut  in  pieces,  boil  the  liquor  over  a  rapid 
fire  until  thick,  skim  off  the  fat  and  pour  over  the 
chicken.  A  young  chicken  will  be  done  in  one  and  a 
half  hours,  an  older  one  in  two  hours. 

267.    STEWED   CHICKEN  WITH   BROWN   GRAVY. 

Dušené  hůře  s  hnědou  omáčkou. 

Salt  a  chicken  inside  and  out,  place  inside  a  piece 
of  good  butter,  rub  lemon  juice  and  butter  over  the 
breast,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  and  stand  aside.  In 
another  saucepan  place  three  onions,  two  small  carrots, 
a  couple  of  leeks  and  a  parsnip,  all  sliced,  add  a  piece  of 
butter  and  stew,  then  add  a  quart  of  soup  and  stew  a 
while  longer.     Half  an  hour  before  serving,  strain  the 


90  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

gravy  over  the  chickens  and  allow  them  to  stew,  being 
careful  that  they  remain  juicy  and  the  meat  white. 
When  done,  take  the  chickens  out  and  pour  over  them 
a  brown  gravy,  made  as  follows:  place  in  a  saucepan 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter  and  a  little  sugar.  Let  it  brown, 
then  blend  with  flour.  Thin  this  with  soup,  so  as  to 
make  a  gravy,  add  a  pinch  of  ground  ginger  and  mix 
thoroughly. 

268.    STEWED  CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOM 

GRAVY. 

Dušené  Jcuře  s  hotihovou  omáčkou. 
Stew  and  prepare  a  chicken    as    given  in  the  fore- 
going reciiJe  and  pour  over  it  mushroom    sauce,    made 
according  to  recipe  No.  76. 

269.    STEWED  CHICKEN  WITH  WINE  GRAVY. 

Dušené  hůře  s  viníiou  omáčkou. 
Cut  a  chicken  into  pieces.  Place  for  a  few  mo- 
ments in  cold  water.  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  slice  of  ham, 
a  piece  of  butter,  dust  with  flour,  add  an  onion  into 
which  you  have  stuck  a  few  cloves,  one  lemon  sliced,  a 
parsley  and  celery  root  and  one  carrot.  Tie  the  vege- 
tables with  a  thread.  Add  the  chicken  and  stew  it  in 
beef  soup.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  a  wineglass  of 
wine  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  allow  all  to  simmer  a 
few  moments.  Take  the  chicken  out,  strain  tlie  gravy 
over  it  and  serve. 

270.    STEWED   CHICKEN   WITH   SOUR 
CREAM  GRAVY. 

Dušená  kuřata  s  kyselou  omáčkou. 
In  a  saucepan  place  a  piece  of  butter,  one  onion  in- 
to which  you  have  stuck  two  cloves,  a  carrot,  a  cup  of 
soup,  and  salt.  Put  the  chicken  in  this,  either  whole  or 
cut  into  pieces.  Let  it  stew,  but  not  too  long.  Place  in  a 
saucepan  a  piece  of  butter,  a  sliced  onion,  minced  par- 
sley, two  tablespoons  of  flour,  blend  together  until 
brown,  thin  with  the  strained  liquor  and  mix  smooth. 


POULTRY.  91 

Add  the  chicken  and  simmer  a  while.  Before  serving, 
beat  two  yolks  with  a  little  cream  and  add  to  the  gravy. 
Take  the  chicken  out,  strain  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve. 
You  may  add  lemon  juice,  if  you  wish. 

271.    CHICKEN  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

Kuře  s  hnedlíčky. 
Cut  up  two  chickens  and  stew  in  soup,  or  in  butter 
and  hot  water.  In  the  meantime,  prepare  dumplings 
thus:  cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  two  eggs,  a 
teaspoon  of  minced  parsley,  a  dash  of  mace,  pepper,  salt 
and  enough  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  to  form  dumplings. 
Make  dumplings  the  size  of  English  walnuts  and  boil 
them  separately  in  salted  water.  When  the  chickens 
are  tender,  take  them  out,  strain  the  liquor  and  if  you 
liave  not  enough  to  make  a  gravy,  add  hot  water, 
thicken  with  butter  and  flour  blended  together,  put 
back  into  the  saucepan,  add  the  chickens  and  simmer  a 
while.  Arrange  the  dumplings  over  the  chickens  and 
pour  gravy  over  all. 

272.    CHICKEN   WITH   LEMON   SAUCE. 

Kuře  s  citrónovou  omáčkoic. 
StcAv  a  nice  chicken  according  to  the  foregoing  re- 
cipe. When  done,  take  it  out,  cover  and  place  where  it 
will  keep  warm.  Blend  a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  one 
of  flour,  thin  with  the  strained  liquor,  add  the  juice  of 
lialf  a  lemon,  a  ]3Ínch  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  bit  of  su- 
gar, a  few  tablespoons  of  white  wine,  and  simmer  un- 
til smooth.    When  done,  pour  over  the  chicken. 

273.    CHICKEN  WITH  PAPRIKA. 

Kuře  s  paprihou. 

Place  in  a  saucepan  tw^o  tablespoons  of  fresh  but- 
ter, one  onion  sliced  thin,  add  two  quartered  young 
chickens,  salt,  cover  and  stew  until  half  done.  Then 
take  them  out,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  the  liquor, 
mix  smooth,  thin  with  beef    soup,    add    several    table- 


92  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

spoons  of  sour  cream  and  simmer  a  while.  Strain  over 
the  chickens,  which  you  have  placed  in  a  saucepan,  add 
half  a  teaspoon  of  paprika  and  allow  all  to  simmer  to- 
gether until  done. 

274.    CHICKEN  WITH  RICE. 

Kure  s  rýži. 
Wash  a  cup  of  rice  first  in  cold  then  in  hot  water, 
then  pour  on  it  soup  or  hot  water  and  boil  until  ten- 
der, being  careful  that  the  grains  keep  whole.  Beat 
three  yolks  or  two  whole  eggs  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
add  a  little  beef  soup  and  a  dash  of  mace,  pour  this  on 
the  rice,  add  a  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley  and  mix  to- 
gether. Arrange  stewed  chickens  on  a  platter,  garnish 
wdtli  the  rice  and  serve. 

275.    CHICKEN   WITH   KOHLRABI. 

Kuře  s  he  dluh  ny. 

Place  a  piece  of  butter  or  lard  in  a  saucepan,  add  a 
chicken  that  has  been  cut  up  into  pieces.  Peel  the  kohl- 
rabi, cut  into  dice  or  strips  and  add  to  the  chicken, 
then  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  stew  over  a  moderate 
fire.  Half  an  hour  before  it  is  done  prepare  dumplings, 
as  follows:  two  eggs  beaten  with  a  cup  of  milk,  salt,  a 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  medium  stiff  dough.  Divide  this  into  four  parts,  place 
over  the  chicken.  When  the  dumplings  are  half  done, 
turn  them  over.  When  they  are  done,  take  them  out, 
add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  liquor,  thicken  with  a  little 
flour  and  water  mixed  together.  Serve  each,  the 
chicken,  kohl-rabi  and  gravy,  separately. 

276.    CHICKEN  WITH  CAULIFLOWER. 

Kuře  s   karfiolern. 

Stew  two  chickens.    Blend  a  heaping  tablespoon  of 

butter  with  one  and  a  half  tablesjooons    of  flour,    thin 

with  the  liquor  in  which  the  chickens  have  stewed.    In 

the  meantime,  boil  a  head  of  cauliflower  in  water  pro- 


POULTRY.  93 

perly  salted.  Cut  the  chickens  into  pieces,  place  them  in 
a  saucepan,  pour  over  them  the  strained  sauce,  add  a 
pinch  of  mace  and  simmer  a  while  longer.  Place  the 
chickens  with  the  gravy  in  a  dish,  arrange  the  cauli- 
flower around  them  and  serve.  Chickens  may  be  pre- 
pared in  this  way  with  asparagus. 

277.    CHICKEN  WITH  ROOT  CELERY. 

Kuře  s  celerem. 
Stew  two  chickens,  either  in  soup  or  butter  with  a 
little  hot  water.  Boil  two  celery  roots  until  tender. 
Slice  one  and  add  it  to  the  chickens.  Mash  the  other 
fine  and  cream  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter  and  two 
yolks,  add  a  pinch  of  mace,  thicken  with  butter  and 
flour  blended  together,  strain  over  the  chickens  and  let 
all  simmer  together  a  moment  or  two.  Then  arrange  the 
chickens  in  a  dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  them,  garnish 
with  sliced  root  and  fresh  celery  tops  and  serve. 

278.  CHICKEN   WITH   TOMATOES. 

Kuře  s  raj  shy  mi  jablíčky. 
Stew  two  or  three  tomatoes,  add  bread  or  cracker 
'Crumbs  which  have  been  soaked  in  cream,  a  little  beef 
soup,  a  dash  each  of  mace  and    lemon  rind,    a  bit  of 
sugar,  mix  together  and  strain  over  stewed  chicken. 

279.  CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Kuře  s  houbami. 
Slice  thoroughly  cleaned  mushrooms  and  stew  with 
a  little  butter  and  minced  parsley,  then  add  chickens 
that  have  been  cut  into  pieces,  salt,  cover  and  stew,  be- 
ing careful  not  to  burn  them.  When  done  and  the  li- 
quor begins  to  evaporate,  dust  with  flour,  add  beef 
soup,  simmer  a  moment  or  two  and  serve.  You  may  add 
a  little  sweet  cream  to  the  gravy. 

280.    CHICKEN    WITH    MAYONNAISE. 

Kuře  s  majonézou. 
Salt  the  chicken,     fasten  the  drumsticks  together, 
rub  lemon  juice  over  the  breast  to  make  it  whiter,  and 


94  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

stew  with  butter,  minced  parsley  and  soup.  When  done, 
cut  into  pieces  and  cool.  Beat  with  a  silver  fork  six 
yolks,  add  a  wineglass  of  olive  oil,  drop  by  drop,  or 
melted  butter,  beating  constantly,  then  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  the  chickens  on  a 
platter,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  garnish  with  lettuce 
and  hardboiled  eggs  and  serve. 

281.  RISSOLES  OF  CHICKEN. 

Risolhy  z  Jiuřete. 
Mince  left-overs  of  roast  or  stewed  chicken.  To  two 
cups  of  this  meat  allow  four  tablespoons  of  stewed 
minced  mushrooms,  four  tablespoons  of  brown  sauce, 
four  yolks,  salt,  pepper  and  mace.  When  all  is  blended 
together,  add  minced  parsley  and  lemon  juice  to  taste, 
then  take  out  and  cool.  Have  ready  dough  rolled  out  as 
for  noodles.  Cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  rub  the  white 
of  an  egg  around  the  edges,  put  a  tablespoon  of  the 
mixture  on  each  piece,  cover  with  another  piece,  press 
the  edges  together  and  place  the  rissoles  on  a  floured 
board.  Have  ready  a  deep  kettle  of  hot  lard,  dip  each 
rissole  in  beaten  eggs  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Arrange 
on  a  platter,  garnish  with  fried  green  parsley  and  serve 
with  any  suitable  sauce.  You  may  prepare  rissoles  of 
various  other  meats  in  the  same  manner. 

282.  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

KroheU'y  z  driihezich  zhythii. 
Mince  fine  two  cups  of  left-over  chicken.  Cream 
two  tablespoons  of  flour  with  one  of  butter,  add  two 
cups  of  hot  milk,  boil  until  thick  and  smooth,  stirring 
constantly.  Salt  and  pepper  (use  both  white  pepper 
and  paprika)  the  minced  meat,  add  grated  nutmeg,  a 
tablespoon  of  minced  celery  and  a  teaspoon  of  minced 
onion.  Mix  together,  add  the  sauce,  mix  again  and  cool. 
When  cool,  make  small  cakes,  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then 
in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  hot  fat.  Half  lard 
and  half  butter  is  good. 


POULTRY.  95 

283.    CHICKEN   PIE. 

Paštika  z  kuřat. 
Cut  into  pieces  a  four  or  five  pound  chicken.  Fry  a 
minced  onion  in  butter,  add  it  to  the  chicken,  then  add 
two  cups  of  hot  water  and  stew.  You  may  add  half  a 
pound  of  ham  cut  into  small  pieces.  Peel  and  dice  po- 
tatoes, boil  half  an  hour  and  drain.  When  the  chicken 
is  done,  remove  the  larger  bones.  Line  a  shallow  pan 
with  pie  crust  dough,  place  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  the 
bottom,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  on  this  put  the  pieces  of 
dough  that  you  have  trimmed  off  around  the  pan, 
sprinkle  with  a  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper  and  dot  with  pieces  of  butter.  Cover  the 
top  w^ith  pie  crust,  which  has  one  or  two  slits  through 
the  center,  spread  a  beaten  white  over  the  top  and  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  In  the  meantime  prepare 
sauce  as  follows:  place  a  teaspoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, when,  melted,  add  two  level  tablespoons  of  flour, 
blend  but  do  not  brown,  add  a  cup  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  chicken  was  stewing  and  a  cup  of  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly. When  it  begins  to  bubble,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
a  beaten  yolk,  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley  and  iDour 
into  the  pie,  through  the  opening.  Or  you  may  serve 
the  sauce  separately.  You  can  prepare  veal,  rabbit  or 
squirrel  pie  in  this  manner. 

284.    CHICKEN    WITH    HERRING. 

Kuřata  se  slanečkem. 
Wash  two  chickens  and  stew  in  beef  soup  until  half 
done,  then  take  them  out  and  cool.  Wash  and  cut  in 
fine  strips  one  herring,  interlard  the  breasts  of  chickens 
with  it,  then  cut  them  in  halves,  place  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan, pour  over  them  the  liquor  in  which  they  stewed, 
add  a  piece  of  butter,  a  dash  each  of  mace,  grated  lemon 
rind  and  lemon  juice  and  the  remainder  of  the  herring. 
Mince  the  milt  of  the  herring  and  add  it  toihe  rest,  then 
dust  with  flour  and  stew  until  the  chickens  are  tendei\ 


96  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

When  done,  take  tliem  out,  strain  the  gravy  over  them 
and  serve. 

285.    ROAST  TURKEY. 

Pečený  krocan. 
Turkeys  are  best  not  more  than  a  year  old.  Pick 
and  clean  as  any  other  poultry,  salt  inside  and  out  and 
put  in  a  cool  place  at  least  twenty-four  hours  before 
roasting  in  summer,  and  two  or  three  days  in  winter. 
When  ready  to  roast  it,  put  it  in  the  roaster,  dust  in- 
side and  out  with  pepper,  place  bits  of  butter  inside  and 
over  the  top,  about  a  cup  in  all,  add  a  cup  of  water  and 
roast.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes  and  roast  brown, 
having  a  steady  though  not  a  quick  fire.  Serve  with 
cranberry  sauce. 

286.  TURKEY  WITH  SAGE  STUFFING. 

Krocan  se  šalvějovou  nádivkou. 
Prepare  the  turkey  for  roasting  as  directed  in  the 
preceeding  recipe.  Make  stuffing  as  follows:  mix  three 
cups  of  bread  crumbs  with  two  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  a  piece 
of  butter,  enough  milk  to  make  it  properly  stiff,  and 
a  tablesiDOon  of  sage  rubbed  to  a  powder.  Stuff  the 
turkey,  sew  up  the  opening  and  roast  as  directed  in  the 
preceding  recipe. 

287.    TURKEY  WITH  OYSTER  STUFFING. 

Krocan   s   ústncovou   nádivkou. 
Prepare  the  turkey  and  stuffing  as  shown  in  the 
foregoing,  using  minced  fried  onion  instead  of  sage  and 
adding  two  dozen  fine  large  oysters. 

288.  TURKEY  WITH  CHESTNUT  STUFFING. 

Krocan  s  nádivkou  z  kaštanů. 
Peel  two  pounds  of  chestnuts,  place  them  in  boiling 
water  and  let  them  soak  until  the  brown  skin  can  be 
rubbed  off  with  a  napkin,  then  wash  them  in  cold  water 
and  drain.  Brown  four  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two 
of  sugar,  add  soup  or  hot  water,  then  add  the  chestnuts 
and  stew  until  partly  soft,  being  careful  to  keep  them 


POULTRY.  97 

whole.  Then  take  them  out  and  cool  them.  Fill  the 
crop  with  this  stuffing,  sew  up  the  opening  and  proceed 
with  the  roasting  as  directed  before. 

289.    TURKEY  WITH  ALMOND  STUFFING. 

Krocan  s  nádivkou  mandlovou. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  fresh  butter,  add  two  or 
three  eggs,  a  few  teaspoons  of  cream,  a  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  blanched  sliced  almonds,  a  dash  each  of 
mace,  grated  lemon  rind,  salt,  and  if  you  wish  the  stuff- 
ing to  have  a  sweetish  taste,  a  little  sugar,  then  add 
enough  bread  crumbs  to  make  it  properly  stiff.  Stuff 
the  crop  of  the  turkey  with  this,  sew  up  the  opening, 
and  roast  the  turkey,  basting  frequently  and  rubbing 
butter  over  it  occasionally. 

290.    ROAST   GOOSE. 

Pečená  husa. 
Wash  a  properly  dressed  goose,  salt  inside  and  out, 
rub  inside  with  caraway  seed,  place  in  a  roasting  pan, 
add  a  little  water  and  roast  rather  slowly,  turning  it 
occasionally  and  basting  frequently.  When  done,  drain 
off  the  grease  and  allow  the  goose  to  brown  over  a 
quick  fire.  While  it  is  roasting,  pierce  the  skin  on  the 
back  and  under  the  wings,  which  allows  the  surplus  fat 
to  escape,  and  makes  the  skin  crisp. 

291.  GOOSE  WITH  APPLE  STUFFING. 

Husa  s  jaMkovou  nádivkou. 
Prepare  the  goose  as  shown  in  the  foregoing.  Make 
stuffing  as  follows:  mix  together  two  cups  of  stewed 
and  mashed  tart  apples,  a  cujo  of  grated  bread  crumbs, 
a  dash  of  powdered  sage,  a  minced  onion  and  a  dash  of 
red  pepper.   Stuff  the  goose  and  roast  as  shown  above. 

292.    STEWED  GOOSE. 

Dušená  husa. 
An  old  goose  that  would   not   roast   well   may   be 
stewed.    Place  in  a  kettle  minced  bacon,  minced  veal,  a 

Cook  Book  7 


98  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

sliced  carrot,  parsley  and  celery  roots  sliced,  add  the 
goose  properly  salted,  a  few  bay  leaves  and  several 
whole  black  peppers,  soup  and  if  you  wish,  a  little 
white  wine,  then  cover  and  stew  until  tender. 

293.    GOOSE  GIBLETS  WITH  RICE. 

Husí  drohecJx'y  s  rýží. 
Boil  the  giblets  until  tender.  Skim  the  broth,  add 
a  celery  and  parsley  root,  and  salt.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  cup  of  rice  that  has  been 
picked  over  and  washed  in  several  hot  waters,  a 
little  soup,  a  pinch  each  of  salt,  mace  and  saffron,  and 
simmer  over  a  slow  fire  until  tender.  See  that  is  does 
not  scorch  and  add  hot  water  or  soup,  if  necessary. 
Blend  butter  and  flour  together,  thin  with  soup,  add  a 
pinch  each  of  mace  and  salt  and  boil  until  smooth. 
Arrange  the  giblets  in  a  dish,  strain  the  sauce  over  them, 
garnish  with  the  rice  and  serve.  Instead  of  blending 
the  butter  and  flour  together,  you  may  fry  minced  par- 
sley and  caraway  seed  in  goose  lard.  Tlie  giblets  con- 
sist of  wings,  feet,  neck,  liver,  gizzard  and  heart. 

294.    GOOSE  GIBLETS  WITH  NOODLES. 

Husí  drohečhy  s  nudlemi. 
Boil  the  giblets  as  shown  in  the  foregoing.  Make 
noodles  with  two  eggs  and  flour.  When  the  giblets  are 
done,  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  when  it  has  settled,  pour 
it  off  into  another  saucepan  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
then  boil  the  noodles  in  it.  Place  the  giblets  in  a  dish, 
put  the  noodles  over  them  and  serve.  You  may  use 
macaroni  and  cheese  instead  of  noodles,  if  you  wish. 

295.    GOOSE  GIBLETS  WITH  QUENELLES. 

Zadělávané  husí  drohečky  s  nudlemi. 

Boil  giblets  with  various  vegetables,  as  for  beef. 
Cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  three  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  grated  lemon  rind,  grated  or  minced  goose  liver  from 
which  the  veins  have  been  trimmed,  salt,  mix  together. 


POULTRY.  •  99 

then  add  a  few  tablespoons  of  cream  and  enough  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs  to  make  small  balls.  You  may  add  a 
clove  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste  and  a  little  marjoram. 
Let  this  mixture  stand.  Blend  butter  and  flour  in  a 
saucepan,  thin  with  half  of  the  liquor  in  which  the 
giblets  have  been  boiled.  Strain  the  rest  of  the  liquor 
into  a  saucepan  and  boil  in  it  balls  the  size  of  an  English 
walnut,  made  of  the  above  mixture.  When  done,  add  the 
giblets,  thicken  with  brown  sauce,  add  a  dash  of  mace, 
and  simmer  a  moment  of  two.  Then  take  the  giblets 
out  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  the  quenelles  and  pour  the 
gravy  over  all. 

296.    GOOSE  GIBLETS  WITH  CAULIFLOWER. 

Husí  clroheH-u  s  l-arfioJeni. 
Boil  the  giblets  as  shown  in  the  foregoing.  Pick 
over  a  head  of  cauliflower,  boil  it  in  soup  or  in  the  li- 
quor in  which  the  giblets  have  boiled,  being  careful  that 
it  remains  firm,  then  take  it  out  and  place  in  cold  wa- 
ter, so  it  whitens.  Blend  butter  and  flour  until  brown, 
strain  into  it  the  liquor  from  the  giblets,  add  a  dash  of 
mace,  then  the  giblets  and  cauliflower  and  simmer  a 
while.  Arrange  the  cauliflower  on  a  platter,  place  the 
giblets  around  it  and  pour  the  gravy  over  all. 

297.    ROAST  DUCK. 

Pečená  Inch  na. 
Duck  is  roasted  in  the  same  manner  as  goose.  You 
may  also  use  the  following  stuffing:  mince  fine  three 
onions,  add  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  sage,  two  table- 
spoons of  bread  crumbs,  one  eggj  a  piece  of  butter,  salt 
and  x>epper. 

298.    DUCK  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Kachna  s  liouhaini. 

Place  lard  or  bacon  fat  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  sliced 
onion,  a  few  whole  black  peppers  and  stew  the  duck  in 
this  a  short  time,  then  add  several  tablespoons  of  soup, 


100  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

cover  the  pan  and  stew,  turning  the  duck  once.  When 
it  is  more  than  half  done,  add  two  or  three  dozen  small 
mushrooms.  When  all  is  done,  place  the  duck  on  a  plat- 
ter, garnish  with  the  mushrooms  and  pour  over  it  the 
strained  liquor,  which  you  have  mixed  with  tomato 
sauce. 

299.    STUFFED   SQUABS. 

Nadívaná  holoubata. 
Cut  off  the  heads  of  properly  dressed  squabs,  take 
out  the  crop  carefully  and  make  an  opening  in  the 
breast,  for  stuffing.  Cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add 
one  egg  and  one  yolk,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  a  dash  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  bit  of  minced 
parsley,  four  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  and  mix  to- 
gether thoroughly.  Stuff  the  squabs  with  this,  sew  up 
the  opening,  fasten  the  drumsticks  to  the  back,  and 
place  the  squabs  in  the  roasting  pan  with  butter  and 
water.    Eoast  until  done,  basting  frequently. 

300.    STEWED  SQUABS  WITH  ASPARAGUS. 

Dušená  holoubata  se  šparglem. 
Boil  properly  dressed  squabs  in  salted  water  about 
three  minutes,  then  cool  and  dry  them.  Place  in  a  sauce- 
pan a  piece  of  butter,  one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  car- 
rot, a  parsley  root,  add  the  squabs,  salt  and  stew  a  few 
minutes.  Dust  with  flour,  add  soup  and  stew  half  an 
hour  longer,  skimming  off  the  grease.  When  the  squabs 
are  done,  put  them  into  another  saucepan  and  stand  in 
a  warm  place.  Place  the  gravy  over  a  rapid  fire,  add 
four  beaten  yolks,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  lemon 
juice  and  salt,  strain  and  pour  over  two  cups  of  aspar- 
agus tips  boiled  in  salted  water.  Pour  this  over  the 
squabs  and  serve. 

301.  STEWED  SQUABS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Dušená  holoubata  s  hnědou  omáčkou. 
■    Place  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  or  diced  ba- 
con, a  dash  of  thyme  and  parsley,  one  sliced  onion,  a 


POULTRY.  101 

few  wliole  black  peppers,  a  piece  of  ginger  and  four 
cloves.  Add  the  squabs,  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  wine 
vinegar,  cover  and  stew  until  tender.  When  done,  cut 
them  in  halves,  place  them  in  another  saucepan  and 
stand  in  a  warm  place.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  two  even  tablespoons  of  flour  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  sugar.  Blend  together  until  brown,  thin  with 
the  liquor  in  which  the  squabs  have  stewed,  if  necessary 
add  beef  soup,  simmer  a  while  and  then  strain  over  the 
squabs.  Let  all  get  thoroughly  hot,  but  it  must  not 
bubble.    You  may  add  a  sliced  lemon  to  the  gravy. 

302.  SQUABS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Holoubata  se   zeleným   hráškem. 

Cut  in  quarters  properly  dressed  squabs.  Place  in 
a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  salt,  and  stew  about 
half  an  hour,  then  dust  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
stir,  then  add  two  cups  of  beef  soup  and  simmer  until 
smooth.  Take  the  squabs  out,  strain  the  gravy,  add  to 
it  a  quart  of  green  peas,  a  bit  of  sugar  and  a  dash  of 
mace.  Simmer  all  a  while,  then  add  the  squabs  and  sim- 
mer until  done.  Arrange  the  squabs  on  a  platter  and 
surround  with  the  peas. 

303.    STUFFED   PIGEONS. 

Nadívaní  holubi. 

Proceed  as  with  squabs,  making  an  ojDening  in  tlie 
breast,  right  under  the  skin.  Mince  the  gizzards  and 
livers  with  parsley,  add  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk, 
a  piece  of  butter,  a  dash  of  mace  and  i^epper,  two  eggs, 
salt  and  mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  crop  and  breast  with 
this  stuffing,  fasten  the  opening,  also  the  necks,  place 
the  birds  in  a  roasting  pan  with  water  and  butter,  dust 
them  with  salt,  and  roast,  basting  frequently.  When 
done,  sprinkle  with  browned  grated  crumbs  and  pour 
the  liquor  over  them. 


102  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

304.    STEWED    PIGEONS. 

Dušení   holubi. 

Cut  properly  dressed  pigeons  in  quarters.  Place  in 
a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter,  a  sliced  onion,  two  bay 
leaves,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  few  juniper  berries,  six  whole 
black  peppers,  six  allspice  and  a  piece  of  ginger.  Add 
the  pigeons,  a  bit  of  wine  vinegar,  cover  and  stew.  Then 
take  them  out  and  put  them  in  another  saucepan,  strain 
the  liquor  over  them,  thicken  with  three  tablespoons  of 
flour  creamed  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and  simmer  until 
the  gravy  is  smooth  and  thick.  You  may  add  a  piece  of 
browned  sugar. 

305.    SALMI  OF  FOWL. 

Ztijtki)  drííheže  s  podpouštJcou. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  wa- 
ter, or  vinegar  and  soup,  add  a  piece  of  lemon  rind  cut 
into  strips,  one  whole  onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  or 
three  bay  leaves,  a  few  whole  black  peppers,  a  few  whole 
allspice,  and  salt.  Simmer,  add  butter  and  flour  blend- 
ed together  until  light  brown,  a  bit  of  browned  sugar 
and  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  white  wine.  Simmer  a 
while,  then  strain  over  the  left-overs  of  any  kind  of 
fowl,  which  have  been  cut  into  small  pieces.  Heat  the 
meat  in  this  gravy  and  serve  with  fried  potatoes. 

Game. — Zvěřina. 

306.    ROAST   RABBIT. 

Pečený   zajíc. 

Interlard  and  salt  the  rabbit.  Place  in  a  roasting 
pan  three  sliced  onions,  a  dash  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf, 
ten  whole  allspice,  eight  whole  black  peppers,  two 
cloves,  a  clove  of  garlic,  a  slice  of  bacon,  and  the  rabbit, 
add  a  little  wine  vinegar,  water  and  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  roast  rather  quickly.  When  it  is  more  than  half 
done,  turn  it  and    roast    brown,     rubbing  it  frequently 


GAME.  103 

with  cream  or  butter.  When  done,  cut  into  pieces.  Add 
flour  to  the  gravy,  strain,  add  cream  and  simmer  a  mo- 
ment or  two  and  serve  with  the  rabbit. 

307.  ROAST  RABBIT  WITH  SOUR  CREAM  GRAVY. 

Pečený  zajíc  v  I'ljseJc  smetaně. 
Wash  and  salt  a  properly  cleaned  rabbit.  Boil  to- 
gether about  fifteen  minutes  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  cup  of 
water,  one  large  sliced  onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  or 
three  bay  leayes,  a  few  whole  black  peppers,  a  few 
whole  allspice,  a  piece  of  ginger  and  three  or  four  cloves. 
Cool  and  pour  over  the  rabbit,  which  lias  been  cut  into 
pieces.  Let  it  lie  thus  three  or  four  days  in  warmer 
weather,  or  eight  days  in  cold,  turning  it  each  day. 
When  ready  to  cook  it,  interlard  with  strips  of  bacon 
and  place  in  a  roaster  with  a  piece  of  butter,  two  sliced 
onions  and  some  of  the  brine.  Place  the  rabbit  in  the 
pan  with  the  interlarded  side  down.  While  roasting 
it  must  be  turned  frequently  and  basted  with  cream  and 
dotted  with  bits  of  butter  over  the  top.  If  the  gravy 
evaporates,  add  more  liquor  or  sour  cream. 

308.    RABBIT  FRICASSEE. 

Zajíc  scl-anij. 
Mince  or  grind  the  meat  from  the  forequarters  of  a 
rabbit  w^ith  two  pounds  of  pork.  If  the  pork  is  lean, 
add  three  ounces  of  minced  bacon,  two  slices  of  bread 
soaked  in  wine  and  squeezed  dry  and  one  slice  grated, 
one  or  two  eggs,  a  dash  each  of  salt,  pepper  and  grated 
lemon  rind.  Mix  together  well,  form  into  a  loaf  (if 
possible  mold  into  the  form  of  a  rabbit)  interlard  with 
bacon  and  bake  with  butter  and  onions,  basting  fre- 
quently. You  may  bake  this  with  sour  cream,  in  which 
case  .the  lemon  rind  is  left  out. 

309.    JUGGED    RABBIT. 

Předeh    zajíce    na    čenio. 
Cut  the  forequarters  of  a  rabbit  into  pieces,  place 
in  a  saucepan  with  butter  or  lard,  a  dash  of  thyme,  one 


104  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

sliced  onion,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind  and  a  bay  leaf.  Add 
enough  water  to  cover  tlie  rabbit  an  inch  from  the  top, 
salt,  cover  and  stew.  When  the  rabbit  is  nearly  done, 
take  it  out,  strain  the  gravy,  add  to  it  enough  vinegar 
to  make  it  sourish,  add  butter  and  flour  blended  to- 
gether and  a  small  cup  of  grated  ginger-bread.  Brown 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  pour  into  it  a  little  soup  and  add 
this  to  the  gravy.  Put  the  rabbit  in  the  gravy,  simmer 
a  while  and  serve. 

310.  RABBIT  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Zajíc  s  hilou  omáčhou. 
Cut  a  young  rabbit  into  small  pieces,  salt,  place  in  a 
skillet  with  minced  bacon,  two  sliced  onions,  a  piece  of 
lemon  rind,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  a  few  whole 
black  peppers,  three  tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar  and 
stew  until  tender.  Then  take  the  meat  out  and  strain 
the  sauce.  Blend  one  tablespoon  of  butter  with  one  and 
a  half  of  flour,  add  the  sauce,  two  cups  of  sour  cream, 
and  the  liquor  from  the  rabbit.  If  necessary,  add  vine- 
gar, soup  or  hot  water,  simmer  a  while.  If  the  gravy 
is  too  sour,  sweeten  to  taste. 

311.  FRIED  RABBIT. 

Smažený  h'aliJc. 
Cut  up  the  rabbit  into  uniform  pieces,    wash    and 
dry  thoroughly  with  a  napkin.     Dust  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour,  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  a  golden  brown  in  lard  or  butter. 

312.    VENISON. 

Srnčí  a  jelení  maso. 

Deer,  roebuck  and  antelope  are  considered  venison. 
Animals  two  and  a  half  or  three  years  old  are  best. 
Venison  is  usually  pickled  several  da^^s  in  brine  com- 
posed of  water,  vinegar,  onion,  allspice,  cloves,  whole 
black  peppers,  bay  leaves,  etc.  boiled  together  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.     It  is  then  roasted  and  the  following 


GAME.  •  105 

gravy  prepared  for  it:  place  in  a  saucepan  lialf  a 
bottle  of  red  wine,  add  a  cup  of  pepper  sauce,  as  is 
described  in  the  following  recipe,  a  cup  of  currant  jelly, 
two  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  the  pulp  of  one  lemon. 
Simmer  a  while,  then  strain  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

313.  SADDLE  OF  VENISON  WITH  PEPPER  SAUCE. 

Jelení  livhet  s  pepřovou  omáčl-ou. 

Wash  and  salt  the  saddle,  place  in  a  kettle,  add 
several  bay  leaves,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  piece  of  ginger, 
one  sliced  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic,  three  or  four  cloves, 
carrot,  leek,  celery  and  parsley  roots,  two  wineglasses 
of  wine  vinegar,  cover  and  stew  slowly.  When  done, 
place  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce: 
blend  light  brown  a  piece  of  butter  and  two  teaspoons 
of  flour,  thin  with  soup  or  hot  water  and  simmer  a  while. 
Place  in  another  saucepan  a  sliced  onion,  add  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  a  teaspoon  of  whole  black  peppers  and  sim- 
mer. Add  this  to  the  gravy,  simmer  a  while,  skim  the 
fat,  salt  and  strain. 

314.  SADDLE  OF  VENISON  WITH  HORSERADISH. 

Pečený  jelení  hřbet  neb  Vyta. 
Wash  the  meat,  salt  and  place  in  a  crock.  Pour 
over  it  wine,  vinegar  and  water,  enough  of  each  to 
make  it  agreeably  tart,  add  a  few  whole  black  peppers,  a 
few  allspice,  a  few  cloves  and  juniper  berries,  a  few 
sprigs  of  thyme,  two  or  three  bay  leaves,  one  onion  and 
stew  the  meat  in  this  until  tender.  Then  take  it  out 
and  add  to  the  sauce  horseradish  prepared  as  follows: 
grate  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  add  a  tablespoon  of  su- 
gar, the  juice  of  a  lemon,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and 
enough  grated  horseradish  to  form  a  thick  sauce. 

315.    ROAST   SADDLE   OR   LEG   OF   VENISON. 

Jelení   kýta. 

Trim  nicely  a  saddle  or  leg  of  venison,  interlard 
with  bacon  and  dust  with  salt.    Place  in  a  crock  a  sliced 


106  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

carrot,  two  sliced  onions,  a  parsley  root,  two  bay  leaves, 
two  cloves  and  a  few  whole  black  peppers.  Place  the 
meat  in  this,  add  a  qnart  of  good  vinegar,  cover  and 
let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  Then  take  it  out,  place 
it  in  a  roaster,  add  some  of  the  liquor  and  a  little  hot 
water,  dot  with  pieces  of  butter  or  lard  and  roast  un- 
til tender.  Serve  with  the  sauce  which  has  been 
skimmed. 

316.    LEG   OF   VENISON. 

Jeleni  hřbet  s  citronovfjm  Ixvenem. 
Wash  and  trim  the  meat  and  pound  it  well.  Pour 
vinegar  over  it,  dust  with  salt  and  let  it  stand  thus 
two  or  three  days.  When  your  are  ready  to  cook  it, 
dust  with  black  pepper,  salt  and  interlard  with  bacon. 
Place  sliced  bacon  in  a  roaster,  add  the  meat,  roast  a 
while,  then  add  some  of  the  brine,  soup  or  hot  water 
and  sprinkle  the  venison  with  bread  crumbs.  Eoast  un- 
til tender,  then  rub  butter  over  the  top,  pour  a  little 
sour  cream  into  the  jDan  and  roast  a  bit  longer.  Serve 
with  the  gravy.    You  may  omit  the  cream,  if  you  wish. 

317.    VENISON  WITH   GRAVY. 

Zvěřina  s  oniacl'ou. 
Wash  three  pounds  of  venison,  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  water,  vinegar,  wine,  salt,  a  few  each  of  all- 
spice, juniper  berries,  bay  leaves,  sliced  onion^  and  sira- 
jner  until  tender.  Melt  two  tablespoons  of  rendered 
butter  in  a  saucepan;  when  hot,  add  two  tablespoons 
of  flour,  a  handful  of  fresh  crumbs  of  rye  bread,  and 
brown  all  together.  Thin  this  with  a  little  of  the  li- 
quor in  which  the  venison  is  stewing,  add  the  strained 
gravy  and  finely  minced  lemon  rind.  If  you  wish,  you 
may  add  to  the .  gravy  a  few  gingersnaps  or  a  piece  of 
hard  gingerbread  a  few  moments  before  it  is  done. 

318.    STEWED  SHOULDER  OF  VENISON. 

Dušené  srnčí  plece. 
Wash  two  shoulders,  take  the  bones  out  and  sprinkle 
the  cavities  with  minced  onion,  minced  parsley,  salt  and 


GAME.  107 

pepper,  and  then  roll  each  piece  up,  tie  around  with 
strong  white  thread,  interlard  the  surface  with  strips 
of  bacon  and  salt.  Place  in  a  saucepan  sliced  carrots 
and  onion,  a  few  whole  black  peppers,  two  cloves,  a 
bay  leaf  and  a  piece  of  good  lard.  Put  the  meat  in  this, 
add  a  little  vinegar  and  soup  and  simmer  slowly  until 
tender.  When  it  is  tender,  take  it  out,  remove  the 
thread  and  place  the  meat  on  a  platter.  Add  a  few 
tablespoons  of  soup  to  the  gravy,  simmer  a  few  mo- 
ments, skim,  strain  and  pour  over  the  meat.  You  may 
serve  in  addition  to  this,  separately,  pepper  sauce  as 
shown  in  recipe  No.  313. 

319.    STEWED  LIVER  OF  VENISON. 

Dušená  srnčí  játra. 
Wash  the  liver,  trim  off  all  skins,  and  slice  thin. 
Place  a  little  butter  in  a  saucepan,  an  onion  finely 
minced,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  add  the  liver.  When  fried 
on  both  sides,  dust  with  flour,  add  a  little  vinegar  and 
salt,  and  and  allow  it  to  simmer  a  bit. 

320.    VENISON   CUTLETS. 

Srnčí  neh  jelení  I'otletlcy. 
Prepare  the  cutlets  as  you  would  mutton  cutlets, 
dust  with  salt,  dip  in  melted  butter  and  bake  in  the 
oven,  or  on  the  stove  in  a  skillet.  To  the  liquor  add 
vinegar  and  pepper  sauce,  simmer  down  until  thick, 
and  serve  with  the  cutlets. 

321.    SLICED    VENISON. 

8rnči  neh  jeleni  řízky. 
Cut  a  leg  of  venison  into  nice  slices,  soak  them  two 
hours  in  the  following:  vinegar  and  water  to  taste, 
sliced  onion,  sliced  lemon,  two  or  three  bay  leaves,  a 
few  whole  black  peppers  and  allspice.  Then  take  them 
out,  dust  with  salt  and  fry  in  melted  butter.  Serve  with 
pepper  or  other  sharp  sauce. 


108  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

322.    BEAR  STEAK. 

Medvědí  kýta. 
Steak  cut  from  young  bear  is  very  good  and  tastes 
almost  like  beefsteak.  Dust  with  salt  and  broil  or  frv 
in  butter  like  beefsteak.  Serve  with  anchovy,  mustard 
or  other  sharp  sauces.  Bear  tongue  is  prepared  the  same 
as  mutton  tongue. 

323.    BROILED  QUAIL  ON  TOAST. 

Roštěné  JiřepeUiij. 
Clean  the  quail  thoroughly,  cut  in  halves  and  place 
on  a  well  greased  broiler,  the  inner  side  down.  When 
broiled  a  nice  brown,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  rub 
with  butter.  Serve  on  toast.  Snipe  are  prepared  the 
same  way. 

324.    ROAST  QUAIL. 

Pečené  křepelky. 
Dress  and  wash  the  quail,  dust  lightly  with  salt, 
cover  with  bacon  and  grape  leaves,  and  tie  around  with 
thread.  Place  them  in  a  roasting  j^an,  dot  with  bits  of 
butter,  baste  with  soup  and  bake  a  light  brown.  AYhen 
done,  take  off  the  covering,  pour  over  them  the  strained 
liquor  and  serve.  Quail  may  also  be  stuffed  in  the  usual 
way.  When  roasting  the  quail,  you  may  add  a  sliced 
onion,  green  parsley  and  mushrooms,  and  when  they 
are  nearly  done,  a  small  glass  of  red  wine. 

325.    STEWED   QUAIL. 

Zadělávané  křepelky. 
Dust  the  quail  witli  salt  and  pepper,  fry  slightly  in 
butter,  then  dust  with  flour,  add  water  and  wine  (half 
of  each)  one  bay  leaf,  half  an  onion,  and  salt.  Stew, 
turning  occasionally.  When  the  quail  is  tender,  place 
them  in  a  dish,  set  same  in  a  warm  place  and  prepare 
the  sauce  by  allowing  it  to  simmer  down  thick,  and 
then  strain  it.  Other  game  birds  may  be  prepared 
this  way. 


GAME.  109 

326.    STEWED  QUAIL  WITH  SPICED  GRAVY. 

Dušené  křepelky  s  kořeněnou  omáčkou. 
Dress  and  clean  tlie  quail,  dust  with  salt,  cover 
witli  sliced  bacon  and  tie  around  with  thread.  Grease 
a  skillet  with  butter,  place  the  quail  in  it,  add  a  small 
sliced  onion,  a  sliced  carrot,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves, 
several  whole  black  peppers,  water,  a  small  glass  of 
white  wine,  cover  and  stew  15  minutes  over  a  slow  fire. 
Then  take  the  quail  out,  pour  over  them  the  strained 
sauce,  surround  with  peas,  stewed  cabbage  or  colewort, 
and  serve. 

327.  PRAIRIE   CHICKENS. 

Tetřívky. 
These  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  quail. 

328.  ROAST  WILD  DUCK. 

Pečená  divoká  kac^ma. 
Boil  together  10  or  15  minutes  one  part  of  vinegar 
to  two  of  water,  several  whole  peppers,  one  sliced  onion, 
one  sliced  carrot,  a  strip  of  lemon  rind  and  a  dash  of 
salt.  When  cool,  pour  it  over  thoroughly  cleaned  wild 
ducks,  which  you  have  placed  in  a  crock  or  stone  jar, 
and  let  them  stay  in  this  several  days,  turning 
once  each  day.  When  ready  to  cook  the  ducks,  dry 
thoroughly,  salt,  interlard  the  breasts  with  strips  of 
bacon  (4  to  6  rows),  place  them  in  the  roasting  pan, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  roast  until  tender,  basting 
occasionally  with  cream  and  the  brine  in  which  they 
have  been  pickled.  When  done,  take  out,  pour  the 
strained  gravy  over  them,  and  serve. 

329.    STEWED  WILD  DUCK. 

Dušená  divoká  kaclina. 
Soak  the  cleaned  ducks  in  cold  water  half  an  hour, 
then  interlard  with  strips  of  bacon.  Put  in  a  saucepan 
one  sliced  onion,  one  sliced  carrot,  a  parsley  and  celery 
root,  a  bay  leaf,  a  piece  of  ginger,  several  whole  black 
peppers;  a  few  juniper  berries,  a  few  cloves,  and  several 


no  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

thin  slices  of  ham.  Place  the  duck,  properly  salted,  in 
this,  add  a  little  water,  and  stew  slowly,  occasionally 
basting'.  Prepare  a  sauce  of  fresh  mushrooms,  add  the 
strained  liquor  to  it,  then  pour  all  over  the  duck  and  let 
it  stand  in  a  hot  place  15  minutes.  You  may  make  a 
sauce  of  the  strained  liquor,  thickened  with  flour  and 
butter  browned  together,  and  then  thinned  with  soup  to 
the  proper  consistency,  if  you  wish. 

330.   WILD    GOOSE. 

Divoká-  husa. 

Young  geese  may  be  roasted,  older  ones  will  have  to 
be  stewed.  They  are  prepared  the  same  as  wild  ducks, 
although  in  the  case  of  an  old  goose  it  is  best  to  skin 
it,  as  the  skin  adds  an  unpleasant  flavor  to  the  meat. 

331.  WILD  PIGEON. 

Divohý  lioluh. 

Clean  and  salt  young  wild  pigeons,  place  in  a  crock 
or  stone  jar,  pour  over  them  wine  and  vinegar,  add  a 
sliced  onion,  several  bay  leaves,  a  few  strips  of  lemon 
rind,  and  let  it  stand  thus  two  days.  When  ready  to 
cook  the  pigeons  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  interlard  the 
breasts  with  strips  of  bacon,  place  in  a  roasting  pan,  dot 
with  bits  of  butter,  and  roast,  basting  frequently  with 
cream  and  the  liquor  in  which  they  have  been  pickled. 
Then  brown  butter  and  flour,  thin  with  the  pickling  li- 
quor, add  the  liquor  in  the  roasting  pan,  sv/eet  or  sour 
cream,  and  boil  together  until  smooth. 

332.  SMALL   BIRDS. 

Mali  ytáčJiOvé. 

Clean,  cut  off  the  heads,  and  salt.  Put  a  piece  of  but- 
ter in  a  roasting  pan,  a  sliced  onion,  and  add  the  birds, 
breasts  down.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  minutes, 
and  when  they  are  beginning  to  brown,  sprinkle  with 
grated  bread  crumbs.  When  done,  add  several  table- 
spoons of  soup,  and  serve. 


FISH.  Ill 

Fish. — Ryby. 

In  Boliemia  fish  are  usually  bought  alive,  to  avoid 
the  danger  of  getting  a  fish  that  died  before  it  was 
caught.  In  this  country  it  is  usually  the  other  way,  but 
if  we  deal  with  a  reliable  firm,  we  can  be  reasonably 
sure  that  the  fish  is  in  good  condition.  Fish  caught  for 
the  market  are  usually  caught  on  a  large  scale,  and 
those  who  are  engaged  in  this  industry  want  to  keep  a 
good  reputation.  Fresh  fish  have  clear  bulging  eyes, 
flexible  jaws,  red  fins  and  shiny  scales. 

Cleaned  fish  may  be  kept  for  several  days  in  win- 
ter by  salting  it  and  letting  it  freeze. 

Fish  is  killed  by  striking  in  the  head  and  tail  with 
a  wooden  mallet,  then  cutting  across  the  upper  part  of 
the  body,  under  the  fins.  The  belly  is  cut  lengthwise  and 
the  entrails-  are  carefully  taken  out,  being  careful  that 
the  gall  bladder  is  not  torn.  It  is  then  washed  in  cold 
water,  scaled  and  cut  into  pieces  or  not,  according  to 
whether  it  is  to  be  baked  or  fried.  To  scale  a  fish, 
place  it  on  a  board,  take  hold  of  the  tail,  and  with  a 
dull  knife,  held  horizontally,  scrape  off  the  scales, 
working  toward  the  head.  This  is  best  done  outside, 
as  the  as  the  scales  fly  in  all  directions.  Then  wash 
the  fish  and  dry  with  a  cloth. 

Fish  having  a  taste  of  earth  or  mud  may  be  soaked 
in  salted  water  before  preparing. 

Always  cook  the  fish  on  the  day  when  you  bought  it. 

If  you  want  to  have  the  fish  a  blue  color,  you  must 
wet  the  board  on  which  you  clean  it,  so  that  the  fish 
does  not  lose  any  of  its  sliminess.  This  is  what  pro- 
duces the  blue  color.  Never  allow  fish  to  soak  in  wa- 
ter long,  it  spoils  the  flavor.  Fish  are  good  only  in 
season.  For  frying  use  more  lard  and  just  a  small  pro- 
portion of  butter. 

Salted  dried  fish  should  be  soaked,  the  part  covered 
with  skin  being  on  top. 


112  BOHEMIAX-AMERICAX  COOK  BOOK. 

333.    BOILED   FISH. 

Vařená  ryha. 

All  large  fish  having  firm  flesh  may  be  boiled. 
Clean  the  fish  well,  cut  into  pieces,  pour  over  it  boiling 
salted  water  and  boil  slowly  half  an  hour.  Serve  with 
sauce. 

334.    BOILED  FISH  WITH  GRAVY. 
Vařená  ryha  s  oméčlcou. 

Clean  the  fish  and  wrap  firmly  with  a  clean  white 
cloth.  Place  in  the  kettle,  pour  boiling  water  over  it, 
add  salt,  and  boil  one  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Make  a  sauce  thus:  chop  fine  six  hard-boiled  eggs, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  pepper,  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  a  little 
milk.  Boil  this  all  together  and  pour  over  the  fish, 
after  you  have  taken  off  the  covering  and  placed  it  in  a 
dish  or  platter. 

335.    FRIED  FISH  CUTLETS. 
Smažené  ryhi  řízky. 
Cut  in  slices  any  kind  of  fresh  fish,  dust  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dip  in  thin  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Ar- 
range on  a  platter,  surround  with  sliced  lemon  and  x^ar- 
sley,  and  serve. 

336.    FISH  WITH  BLACK  SAUCE. 

Eyha  na  černo. 
Pour  into  a  saucepan  a  quart  of  water  and  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  add  two  sliced  onions,  one  celery  root,  one 
parsley  root,  one  carrot,  one  clove  of  garlic,  two  bay 
leaves,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  fifteen  allspice,  fifteen  cloves, 
two  small  pieces  of  ginger,  and  boil  all  together  15  mi- 
nutes. Then  put  the  fish  into  this  and  while  it  is  boiling 
prepare  the  following:  stew  two  pounds  of  dried  prunes 
until  tender.  Strain,  saving  the  liquor.  Stone  the  prunes 
and  chop  them  fine,  then  turn  them  back  into  their  li- 
quor, add  three  pints  of  beer,  the  rind  of  haK  a  lemon 
cut  into  strips,  half  a  pound  of  rye  bread  cut  into  dice, 


FISH.  113 

half  a  pound  of  grated  gingerbread  (marzipan)  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  a  cup  of  raisins,  a  cup  of  nuts,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  When 
the  fish  is  done,  take  it  out,  strain  the  liquor,  put  it 
back  into  the  kettle,  add  the  foregoing  mixture,  and 
when  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  thicken  with  butter 
and  flour  browned  together.  Pour  this  gravy  over  the 
fish  and  serv^e.  Carp,  sturgeon  or  any  fish  that  boils 
nicely  may  be  prepared  this  way. 

337.  FRIED  CARP. 

Smažený  kapr. 
Cut  a  cleaned  carp  into  pieces.  Wash  them  in  cold 
water,  dry  thoroughly,  salt,  pepper,  cover  with  a  nap- 
kin and  allow  it  to  stand  thus  half  an  hour.  Dip  the 
pieces  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  eggs  and  then  in  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  (lard  and  butter, 
half  of  each.) 

338.  BLUED    CARP. 

Kapr  na  modro. 
•Place  in  a  kettle  a  cleaned  carp  cut  into  pieces. 
Boil  a  pint  of  good  vinegar  with  a  little  salt  and  pour 
hot  over  the  fish.  This  will  give  it  a  nice  blue  color. 
Then  pour  off  the  vinegar  into  a  saucepan,  add  more 
vinegar,  celery,  parsley  roots,  and  an  onion,  all  sliced, 
three  or  four  cloves  of  garlic,  a  few  whole  black  pej)- 
pers,  a  few  allspice,  five  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  a  piece 
of  ginger,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind  cut  into  strips,  salt,  and 
boil  half  an  hour.  Pour  this  over  the  fish,  and  if  ne- 
cessary, add  more  vinegar,  so  that  the  fish  is  well  co- 
vered, cover  and  boil  half  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire. 
Take  the  fish  out,  arrange  in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  the 
strained  gravy,  sprinkle  with  finely  cut  lemon  rind  and 
celery  leaves,  cover  and  put  away  in  a  cold  place.  This 
is  eaten  cold,  and  sometimes  served  with  French  dress- 
ing (oil,  vinegar  and  pepper.) 

Cook  Book  8 


114  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

339.    MARINATED  CARP. 

Marinovanij   hapr. 

Cut  a  cleaned  carp  into  pieces,  salt  and  bake, 
rubbing  frequently  with  butter.  Then  place  it  in  a  deep 
dish,  cover  and  set  aside.  Boil  together  (15  minutes) 
vinegar,  sliced  onion,  several  whole  black  peppers,  a 
few  allspice,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  a  small  piece  of  gin- 
ger, three  cloves,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind.  Pour  it  over 
the  fish,  cover  and  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  French 
dressing. 

340.  JELLIED  CARP  OR  SALMON. 

Kapr  neh  losos  v  rosolu. 
Boil  together  two  cups  of  vinegar,  two  cups  of 
white  wine,  and  enough  water  to  make  it  agreeably 
sour,  add  salt,  one  large  onion  sliced,  one  clove  of  gar- 
lic, twenty  whole  black  peppers,  twenty  allspice,  a  piece 
of  ginger,  six  cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  two  bay  leaves, 
a  piece  of  lemon  rind,  a  little  gelatine,  and  salt.  Cover 
and  boil  half  an  hour,  strain,  pour  back  into  the  kettle 
and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  to  it  about  four  pounds 
of  carp,  cut  into  pieces,  boil  15  or  20  minutes.  When 
cooking  salmon  this  way,  it  is  well  to  wrap  each  piece 
in  a  piece  of  muslin,  for  thus  it  will  keep  its  color. 
When  the  fish  is  done,  take  it  out  and  arrange  in  a 
dish.  To  the  gravy  add  two  beaten  eggs',  and  allow  it 
to  boil  a  moment,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  pour 
over  the  fish,  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place,  to  set.  When 
ready  to  serve,  place  the  fish  in  hot  water,  which  will 
enable  you  to  turn  out  the  contents  whole,  garnish  with 
sliced  lemon,  capers  etc.  and  serve.  Salmon  cooked  thus 
is  served  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 

341.  CARP  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Kapi'  pečený  s  hyselou  omáčkou. 
Cut  a  cleaned  carp  into  pieces,  dust  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Grease  a  roasting  pan  with  butter,  place  in  it 
two  bay  leaves,  then  put  in  the  fish,  pour  over  it  thick 


FISH.  115 

sour  cream,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  bake  a  golden 
brown,  basting  frequently  with  sour  cream.  When 
done,  put  the  fish  on  a  platter,  and  serve  with  the 
strained  gravy,  each  separately. 

342.    STUFFED   BAKED    CARP. 

Nadívaný   pečený   kapr. 

Clean  the  carp,  saving  the  eggs.  Place  the  latter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  cold  water  and  the  juice  of  one  le- 
mon, and  boil  about  five  minutes.  Cream  four  table- 
spoons of  butter,  add  two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk 
and  squeezed  dry,  two  scrambled  eggs,  the  fish  eggs 
finely  chopped,  six  yolks,  a  dash  of  ground  mace,  the 
same  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  together.  Stuff  the  carp 
Avith  this  dressing  and  sew  up  the  opening.  Grease  a 
roasting  pan  with  butter,  place  in  it  slices  of  onion,  then 
the  fish,  dotting  it  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  to  a 
golden  brown.  Before  it  is  done,  you  may  sprinkle  it  with 
finely  minced  anchovies.  "While  baking,  you  must  baste 
the  fish  frequently.  If  you  wish,  you  may  add  to  the 
dressing,  instead  of  ordinary  butter,  anchovy  paste  and 
mushrooms  finely  chopped  and  stewed  in  butter. 

343.    CARP  WITH  BROWN  GRAVY. 

Kapr  s  Imčdoii  omáčkou  a  se  smrži. 

Grease  a  saucepan  with  butter,  place  in  it  a  carp 
cut  into  pieces,  dust  with  salt,  pepper  and  two  ground 
cloves.  Add  a  finely  minced  onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 
and  stew.  In  another  saucepan  brown  butter  and  flour, 
add  a  pint  of  vegetable  stock  (see  recipe  No.  38)  or 
soup,  and  wine  vinegar.  Boil  a  while  and  then  strain, 
add  this  to  the  fish,  then  add  three  minced  anchovies 
and  about  twenty  fresh  mushrooms,  and  stew  all  to- 
gether a  while.  When  done  arrange  on  a  platter,  sur- 
round with  mushrooms,  and  serve  the  sauce  separately. 


116  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

344.    BOILED   PIKE. 

Stiha  ve  slané  vodě  vařená. 
Pike  is  good  wlien  simply  boiled  in  salted  water. 
Insert  the  tail  into  the  mouth,  wind  strong  white  thread 
around  the  mouth,  to  hold  it  and  the  tail  together.  Co- 
ver with  salted  water  and  boil  until  tender.  When 
ready  to  serve,  place  the  fish  on  a  platter,  with  the  tail 
touching  the  head,  garnish  with  small  boiled  potatoes, 
pour  over  all  good  melted  butter  mixed  with  chopped 
parsley.  When  cooking  pike,  be  careful  not  to  get  it 
too  tender. 

345.    PIKE,  HOLLAND  STYLE. 

Stil-a  po  holandshu. 
Boil  together  two  parts  of  salted  water  with  one 
of  wine,  add  the  pike  cut  into  pieces  and  boil  half  an 
hour.  In  the  meantime  melt  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  add  three  ounces  of  finely  minced  anchovies,  a 
teaspoon  of  minced  green  parsley  and  fry  five  minutes. 
Then  place  the  fish  on  a  platter,  sprinkle  it  with  bread 
crumbs,  pour  over  it  the  prepared  butter,  to  which  you 
have  added  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  serve. 

346.    BAKED  PIKE. 

Pečená  štika. 
Wash  the  fish  and  dust  with  salt,  inside  and  out, 
cover  with  a  napkin,  let  it  lie  thus  two  hours,  then 
wipe  dry,  and  cut  several  gashes  in  it.  Place  in  a  sauce- 
pan one  large  onion,  one  carrot,  a  celery  root,  leek,  all 
finely  sliced,  add  a  piece  of  butter  and  fry  a  golden 
brown.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  stew  a  few  mo- 
ments, add  a  pint  of  soup,  a  small  cup  of  vinegar,  a 
wineglass  of  wine,  a  few  whole  peppers,  one  bay  leaf, 
and  boil  all  half  an  hour.  Grease  a  roasting  pan  with 
butter,  place  in  it  sliced  celery  and  parsley  roots,  then 
add  the  fisli  and  bake,  rubbing  occasionally  with  butter. 
When  done,  place  the  fish  on  a  platter  and  pour  the 
strained  gravy  over  it. 


FISH.  117 

347.    PIKE    WITH    OYSTERS. 

Stil'a  s  ústncemi. 

Boil  a  pike  as  you  would  blued  carp  (Recipe  338). 
Place  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter,  about  four 
anchovies,  the  liver  of  the  pike,  finely  minced,  and 
several  oysters.  Add  a  slice  of  white  bread  soaked  in 
white  wine,  a  pinch  of  mace,  and  a  bit  of  finely  minced 
lemon  rind.  Mix  all  together  with  a  bit  of  wine,  add 
the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled,  and  when  it 
bubbles,  pour  over  the  fish.  You  may  add  lemon  juice, 
or  serve  with  sliced  lemon.  Other  fish  having  white 
meat  may  be  prepared  this  way. 

348.    BLUED    PIKE. 

Stika  na  modro. 

Blued  pike  is  prepared  the  same  as  blued  carp,  ex- 
cept that  you  add  a  piece  of  butter. 

349.    PIKE  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

Zadělávaná   štika. 

Cut  a  pike  into  pieces,  set  several  of  these  aside 
whole,  and  after  taking  the  bones  out  of  the  others, 
chop  the  meat  fine.  Boil  the  whole  pieces  in  salted  wa- 
ter, cover  and  set  aside.  Pound  the  chopped  meat  in  a 
mortar  with  two  hard-boiled  yolks  and  a  slice  of  bread 
soaked  in  milk  and  squeezed  dry.  Cream  a  piece  of 
butter,  add  to  it  the  pounded  paste,  two  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  minced  lemon  rind,  salt,  mace,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
If  this  is  too  thin,  add  bread  crumbs.  Make  small 
dumplings  of  this  and  boil  them  in  the  liquor  in  which 
the  fish  has  boiled,  first  removing  the  fish.  When  done 
thicken  the  sauce  with  butter  and  flour  browned  to- 
gether, add  a  pinch  of  ground  mace  and  ginger,  put  the 
fish  back,  simmer  all  together  a  moment  or  two,  and 
serve. 


118  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

350.   FRIED  PIKE. 

Stika   smažená. 

Cut  the  pike  into  pieces,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper, 
cover  and  let  it  stand  thus  an  hour.  Then  dry  with  a 
cloth,  rub  with  anchovy  paste,  dip  in  flour,  then  in 
beaten  egg  and  finally  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  a  golden  brown. 

351.  PIKE  WITH  SOUR  CREAM  GRAVY. 

Stika  s  kyselou  omáčhou. 

Boil  the  pike  in  accordance  with  the  recipe  for 
blued  carp  (338).  When  done  take  the  fish  out  and 
prepare  the  gravy  as  follows:  clean  and  pound  to  a 
paste  three  or  four  anchovies,  cream  with  butter,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  together,  then  add  a  small 
cuj)  of  soup  and  the  same  of  thick  sour  cream,  a  dash  of 
mace  and  white  ginger  (both  grated),  beat  until  smooth 
and  boil  a  while.  Then  add  a  few  capers,  pour  all  over 
the  fish  and  serve. 

352.  BAKED  SALMON  WITH  GRAVY. 

Pečený   losos  s  omáčkou. 

Cut  the  salmon  into  pieces.  Place  in  a  saucepan  a 
few  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  a  few  finely  minced 
small  onions,  a  few  capers,  four  minced  anchovies,  a 
piece  of  parsley  root,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  the  fish  and  let  it  lie  thus  24  hours,  turn- 
ing the  meat  several  times.  When  ready  to  prepare, 
which  is  half  an  hour  before  serving,  place  the  fish  in 
a  well  buttered  roasting  pan,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  .20  minutes,  basting  frequently 
with  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  has  soaked.  When 
done,  serve  with  a  gravy  prepared  by  browning  butter 
and  flour  together,  thinning  it  with  soup  and  the  rest 
of  the  liquor.  Boil  a  few  moments,  strain  and  serve 
with  the  fish. 


FISH.  119 

353.    BAKED  SALMON  WITH  MAYONNAISE 

SAUCE. 

Pečený  losos  s  majonézou. 
Cut  the  salmon  into  pieces  about  one  and  a  half  in- 
ches thick,  salt  and  bake  in  butter.  Arrange  in  a  dish, 
pour  over  it  melted  butter,  the  juice  of  one  or  two 
lemons,  minced  lemon  rind  and  capers.  Sprinkle  the 
meat  with  a  few  allspice,  a  few  whole  black  peppers, 
and  four  cloves  (all  coarsley  pounded)  and  let  it  stand 
thus  several  hours.  Then  take  it  out,  arrange  on  a  lolat- 
ter,  pour  mayonnoise  sauce  in  the  center,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve. 

354.  BOILED   SALMON  No.  1. 

Vařený  losos. 
Wash  the  salmon  in  cold  water,  place  in  a  kettle, 
pour  in  vinegar,  add  a  sliced  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  salt, 
and  enough  water  to  cover  the  fish.  Cover  the  kettle 
and  stew  the  fish  until  tender.  Press  four  hard-boiled 
yolks  through  a  sieve,  add  six  tablespoons  of  good 
melted  butter,  mix  until  smooth,  then  add  a  bit  of  green 
parsley  minced  fine,  a  few  small  onions  also  minced,  a 
tablespoon  of  mustard,  salt,  pepper  to  taste  and  enough 
vinegar  to  make  a  rather  thick  gravy.  Eub  smooth  and 
serve  with  the  boiled  salmon. 

355.  BOILED    SALMON    No.    2. 

Vařený  losos  na  jiný  způsol). 
Salmon  which  is  to  be  served  boiled  must  not  be 
dry.  Wrap  the  fish  in  cheesecloth,  pour  hot  water  over 
it,  and  boil  gently.  When  done,  take  off  the  wrapping, 
place  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  Avith  anchovy  or  other  fish 
sauce,  garnished  with  sliced  lemon. 

356.    FRIED   SALMON. 

Smažený  losos. 
Cut  slices  two  inches  thick,  dust  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, cover  and  let  them  stand  about  an  hour,  then  dip 
each  in  melted  butter  mixed  with  yolks  of  eggs,  then 


120  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

ill  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  place  in  a  buttered  pan, 
sprinkle  witli  melted  butter,  and  bake  until  golden 
brown.  Serve  with  tlie  bread  crumbs,  adding  lemon 
juice  to  taste.  Catfish  and  carp  may  be  prepared  in 
this  manner. 

357.    CANNED  SALMON. 

Nakládaný  losos. 
Take  the  salmon  out  of  the  can,  remove  the  bones, 
skin,  etc.  break  into  small  pieces  with  a  fork  and  serve 
with  sliced  lemon,  onion,  pepper  and  vinegar,  or  may- 
onnaise sauce. 

358.  CANNED  SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Kroketky  z   nakládaného   lososa. 

Take  the  salmon  out  of  the  can,  remove  bones,  skin, 
etc.,  add  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs, 
salt  and  pepper,  mix  thoroughly  and  form  into  cro- 
quettes. Place  butter  and  lard  in  the  skillet  and  when 
smoking  hot,  fry  the  croquettes. 

359.    FRIED  PERCH. 

Smazenfj   okoun. 
Clean  the  fish,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  allow  it 
to  stand  thus  fifteen  minutes  and  then  fry  the  same  as 
carp. 

360.    BROILED    PERCH. 

Okoun   pečený  neJ)  roštěný. 
Clean  the  fish,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  allow  to 
stand  thus  fifteen  minutes.     Then  rub  with  good  fresh 
butter  and  broil  or  panbroil  in  the  usual  manner.  Serve 
with  lemon,  or  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice. 

361.  BOILED  PERCH. 

Okoun  vařený. 

Cut  in  fine  slices  a  carrot,  parsley  root,  celery  root 

and  leek,  place  in  a  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  add 

green  parsley,  a  few  whole  black  peppers,  salt,  and  let 

it  fry  a  bit,  then  add  a  quart  of  hot  water  and  stew  15  or 


FISH.  121 

20  minutes.  In  the  meathne  prepare  the  cleaned  percli, 
salt  and  place  in  a  kettle,  ponr  over  them  the  strained 
liquor,  cover  and  simmer  until  tender.  When  the  fish 
is  done,  thicken  the  sauce,  and  serve  with  the  fish. 

362.    BLUED    PERCH. 

Okoun  na  modro. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  blued  carp, 
(338). 

363.    BOILED    BASS. 
Vařená    lupiče. 

This  is  a  very  choice  fish,  its  meat  being  white, 
fine  and  juicy.  Place  the  cleaned  fish  in  cold  salted 
water,  to  harden  the  flesh.  In  fact,  it  is  best  to  salt  the 
fish  and  place  it  on  ice  over  night.  When  boiling  bass, 
if  the  fish  is  large,  cut  it  into  pieces,  place  in  boiling 
salted  water,  and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes.  In  the 
meatime  rub  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  with  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  melt  it.  Drain  the  boiled  fish, 
place  it  on  a  platter,  pour  over  it  the  melted  butter  and 
dust  with  fried  bread  crumbs.  Bass  is  fried  in  the 
same  manner  as  perch. 

364.    STEWED    BASS. 

Dušená  lupiče. 
Cut  the  fish  into  quarters,  wash  and  salt.  Place 
butter,  sliced  onion,  a  bay  leaf  or  two,  a  sprig  of  rose- 
mary, three  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  several  whole 
black  peppers  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  fish,  white  wine 
or  vinegar,  and  let  all  simmer.  In  the  meantime  in  an- 
other pan  blend  a  piece  of  butter  with  a  tablespoon  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  a  pinch  of  flour.  When  the  fish  is 
tender,  take  it  out,  strain  the  liquor,  add  to  it  the  blend- 
ed flour,  butter  and  breadcrumbs,  boil  until  smooth, 
then  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Place  the  fish  on 
a  platter,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  garnish  with  sliced 
lemon  and  serve. 


122  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

365.  BASS  WITH  OYSTERS. 

L'upice  s  vstřicemi. 
Wash  the  cleaned  fish,  cut  open  along  the  back- 
bone, skin,  bone,  and  cut  the  flesh  in  small  thin  pieces, 
dust  with  salt  and  simmer  in  hot  butter.  When  done, 
pour  the  butter  off,  arrange  the  fish  on  a  platter,  pour 
over  it  oyster  sauce  and  serve. 

366.  BOILED  WHITE  FISH. 

Vařená  hélice. 
Clean  the  fish  and  boil  in  salted  water  to  which 
you  have  added  lemon  juice,  sliced  onion  and  a  bunch 
of  green  parsley.  When  done,  place  the  fish  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  over  it  melted  butter  to  which  has  been  added 
chopped  parsley,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley 
and  serve. 

367.  BAKED  WHITE  FISH. 

Pečenci  bělice. 
Clean  the  fish,  wipe  dry  and  salt  inside.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  mixed  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  the  fish  and  sew 
the  opening  up.  Dust  with  cornmeal,  place  in  the  pan, 
pour  under  it  a  bit  of  water  and  bake  about  an  hour, 
basting  frequently.  Lake  trout  and  pike  may  be  baked 
in  the  same  manner. 

368.    WHITE  FISH  IN  WINE. 

Bělice  s  vínem. 
Clean  and  salt  the  fish,  stuff  with  ordinary  stuff- 
ing, or  stuffing  as  for  carp,  place  in  a  buttered  pan, 
sprinkle  with  flour  and  butter  mixed  together,  pour 
over  it  half  a  pint  of  red  wine  and  bake  one  hour,  bast- 
ing frequently.  Then  take  the  fish  out,  strain  the  li- 
quor, add  more  wine,  a  teaspoon  of  browned  flour,  a 
dash  of  paprika,  mix  well,  pour  ove^*  the  fish,  garnish 
with  sliced  lemon  and  serve. 


FISH.  123 

369.    LAKE   TROUT. 

Jezerni  pstruzi. 
These  are  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  white 
fish. 

370.    BLUED   BROOK   TROUT. 

Psiruzi  na  modro. 
Cnt  the  trout  into  pieces,  pour  over  them  boiled 
salted  vinegar,  in  order  that  they  get  a  nice  blue  color, 
then  place  them  in  a  kettle,  add  spices  as  for  blued 
carp  (see  recipe  338),  enough  water,  vinegar  and  white 
wine  (equal  parts  of  each)  to  cover  the  fish,  salt  and 
stew  fifteen  minutes.  Then  take  the  fish  out,  pour  the 
strained  sauce  over  it,  and  let  it  get  stiff. 

371.    BROOK  TROUT  IN  WINE. 

Pstruzi  s  vinem. 
Salt  the  cleaned  fish  and  allow  it  to  stand  thus  one 
hour.  Place  sliced  onion  in  a  pan,  add  the  fish,  pour 
over  it  a  pint  of  Burgundy  wine,  add  two  or  three  bay 
leaves  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  take  out 
the  fish,  pour  the  strained  sauce  over  it,  and  serve. 

372.    FRIED  BROOK  TROUT. 

Smažení  pstruzi. 

For  frying  use  small  trout.  Cut  each  fish  o])en 
lengthwise,  salt,  cover,  and  let  it  stand  thus  half  an 
hour,  then  dr}"  with  a  cloth,  dip  in  flour,  then  in  beaten 
eggs,  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter.  Serve 
with  sliced  lemon. 

373.  BROOK  TROUT  WITH  SAUCE. 

Pstruzi  s  omáčkou. 

Brook  trout  are  fried  and  served  with  anchovy,  ca- 
per, oyster  or  tomato  sauce.  Blued  trout  may  be  served 
with  mayonnaise,  garnished  with  anchovies,  aspic,  ca- 
pers or  hard-boiled  eggs. 


124  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

374.    MARINATED  BROOK  TROUT. 

Marinovani  pstruzi. 
Place  small  fried  trout  in  a  deej)  disli  and  let  them 
get  entirely  cold.  In  the  meantime  mix  together  a  sliced 
onion,  several  whole  peppers,  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  rose- 
mary, a  few  strips  of  lemon  rind  and  enough  wine 
vinegar  to  cover  the  fish.  Let  this  simmer  about  an 
hour,  then  cool.  When  cold,  add  a  few  teaspoons  of 
olive  oil  and  pour  all  over  the  fish.  The  fish  should 
stand  thus  several  hours  in  a  cool  place,  before  serving. 

375.    BAKED    STURGEON. 

Pečený  jeseter. 
Sturgeons  must  be  skinned,  for  the  skin  is  too  thick. 
Wash  the  skinned  fish,  dust  it  with  salt,  place  it  in  a 
pan  greased  with  melted  butter,  rub  it  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake.  Then  place  it 
in  a  dish,  pour  over  it  melted  butter  mixed  with  lemon 
juice  and  serve. 

376.    FRIED   STURGEON. 

Smažený  jeseter. 
Sturgeon  is  fried  in  the  same  manner  as  carp.  Small 
fish  about  half  a  pound  in  weight  are  fried  whole,  large 
fish  are  cut  up  in  slices. 

377.    STURGEON   IN  WINE. 

Jeseter  s  vínem. 
Take  a  large  piece  of  sturgeon,  preferably  the 
middle,  about  four  pounds  in  weight,  place  it  in  a  deep 
pan,  add  sliced  carrot,  onion,  a  bunch  of  green  par- 
sley, salt,  pepper,  two  blades  of  mace,  two  cloves  of 
garlic,  enough  red  wine  and  beef  soup  (equal  parts)  to 
cover  and  simmer  all  about  an  hour.  Then  take  the  fish 
out,  set  in  a  warm  place,  strain  the  sauce,  thicken  with 
butter  and  flour  browned  together,  let  it  simmer  a  bit, 
then  add  to  it  two  anchovies  rubbed  to  a  paste,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  paprika,  strain  and  serve 
with  the  fish. 


FISH.  125 

378.    CATFISH. 

Sumec  americký. 
These  are  cleaned  and  prepared  in  the  same  manner 
as  sturgeon. 

379.    SHAD. 

Ales. 
Place  in  a  pan  a  piece  of  butter,  a  piece  of  parsley 
root,  a  bunch  of  green  parsley,  a  sliced  onion,  a  blade 
of  mace,  add  the  cleaned  fish,  salt,  pepper,  cover  with 
red  wine,  cover  the  pan  and  simmer  gently  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Then  take  the  fish  out,  arrange 
on  a  platter,  garnish  with  the  onion  and  set  in  a  warm 
place.  Strain  the  gravy,  thicken  with  flour  and  but- 
ter browned  together,  simmer  a  bit,  then  strain  once 
more,  add  a  bit  of  good  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
a  pinch  of  paprika,  pour  over  the  fish,  and  serve.  Other 
fish  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

380.    BROILED   HERRING. 

Roštěný  slaneček. 

Wash  cleaned  fresh  herring,  cut  open  lengthwise 
on  both  sides,  place  in  a  deep  dish,  dust  with  salt  and 
pepper,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil  and  let 
it  stand  thus  one  hour,  turning  occasionally.  Then  broil 
and  serve  with  cream  sauce.  Broiled  fresh  herring  may 
be  served  with  bits  of  parsley  butter  dotted  over  them. 
Herring  may  be  prepared  also  in  the  same  manner  as 
perch. 

381.    FRIED    HERRING. 

Smažený  slaneček. 
Wash  the  cleaned  fish,  soak  in  cold  milk  several 
hours,  then  dry  thoroughly,  open  lengthwise  and  bone. 
Make  a  very  thin  batter  of  eggs,  flour,  milk  and  wine, 
properly  salted.  Dip  the  fish  in  this  and  fry  in  hot 
butter.  Or  dust  it  with  flour  mixed  with  a  little  pej)- 
per,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  butter. 


126  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

382.    MARINATED  HERRING. 

Marinovanij  slanečelc. 
A  thick,  milky  fluid  (milt)  is  found  in  male  fish, 
while  the  female  fish  have  the  eggs.  Both  are  used  in 
cooking,  as  they  add  flavor.  Clean  three  male  herring, 
soak  over  night  in  milk.  Wash  them  the  next  day,  re- 
move the  milt,  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan.  Halve  and 
bone  the  herrings,  roll  each  and  fasten  each  roll  with  a 
toothpick.  Cream  the  milt,  add  wine  vinegar  (a  spoon- 
ful at  a  time,  creaming  constantly)  until  you  have 
enough  sauce  to  cover  the  herring.  Then  beat  until  it 
thickens.  Line  a  deep  bowl  with  sliced  onion,  place  in 
it  the  herring,  cover  with  sliced  lemon,  add  a  few  bay 
leaves,  a  few  whole  peppers  and  allspice,  a  few  capers, 
pour  the  sauce  over  all  and  allow  to  stand  thus  for 
several  hours. 

383.    FRIED   SMELTS. 

Smažené  řepachy. 
Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish,  dip  in  milk,  then  in 
flour  and  fry  in  butter.  Or  you  may  dust  with  flour, 
dip  in  beaten  egg  to  which  has  been  added  salt  and 
pepper,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  and  serve  with  sliced 
lemon. 

384.    BROILED  SMELTS. 

Pečené  řepachy. 
Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish,  salt,  pepper  and  rub 
with  melted  butter  and  then  broil  or  panbroil  them. 
Arrange  in  a  dish,  pour  over  them  melted  butter  to 
which  has  been  added  minced  parsley  and  serve  with 
sliced  lemon. 

385.  BAKED  MACKEREL. 

Makrelka  pečená. 
Mackerel  is  a  sea  fish,  sold  in  inland  markets  salted 
down.    Wash  and  soak  the  mackerel  over  night  in  about 
three  quarts  of  water,  if  you  wish  to  serve  it  for  break- 
fast.    Drain  the  water  off  in  the  morning,    pour    boil- 


FISH.  '  127 

iiig  water  over  the  fisli  and  allow  it  to  stand  thus  a 
minute  or  two  without  boiling.  Then  drain  the  water 
off  again,  and  place  the  fish  in  a  well-buttered  pan  or 
skillet,  the  inner  side  upwards.  Pour  over  it  half  a 
cup  of  sweet  cream  and  add  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  un- 
til a  light  brown.  If  you  wish  to  serve  the  mackerel  for 
lunch  oř  dinner,  soak  six  hours. 

386.  BOILED    MACKEREL. 

MaJcrelka  vařená. 
Soak  as  described  above.  In  the  morning  drain  off 
the  water,  pour  hot  water  over  the  fish  and  let  it  soak 
in  this  about  five  minutes.  Then  drain,  place  the  fish 
on  a  hot  platter,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  garnish 
with  small  boiled  potatoes. 

387.  CREAMED    CODFISH. 

Treslca  s  mlékem. 

Dried  and  salted  codfish  is  soaked  in  cold  water 
three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night  (in  the  latter  case  do 
not  use  as  much  water).  When  ready  to  prepare  it, 
drain,  pour  over  it  fresh  cold  water  and  parboil,  then 
drain  again,  cool,  pick  to  pieces,  and  bone.  Pour  over 
it  cold  milk  and  boil.  When  done,  rub  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  butter  with  the  same  amount  of  flour  and  add 
to  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  You  may  add  one  or 
two  beaten  eggs  if  you  wish.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
and  serve. 

388.    SCALLOPED   CODFISH. 

Pečená  tresha. 

Drain  boiled  codfish,  pick  to  pieces  and  bone.  But- 
ter a  baking  pan  well,  dust  with  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  place  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  fish,  then  a  layer 
of  crumbs  mixed  with  chopiDed  anchovies,  a  dash  each 
of  minced  lemon  rind  and  nutmeg,  then  a  layer  of  fish 
etc.,  the  top  layer  being  of  crumbs.  Pour  cream  over 
it,  dot  with  butter  and  bake. 


128  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

389.  CODFISH   BALLS   No.   1. 

Karhandthj  z  tresky. 
Bone  boiled  codfish  and  chop  the  meat.  Mix  with 
an  equal  amount  of  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes.  Add  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one  eg^,  a  bit  of  pepper,  mix,  form 
balls  or  cakes,  dip  these  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  fat, 
composed  of  equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard. 

390.  CODFISH   BALLS   No.   2. 

Karbanátky  na  jiný  způsob. 
Bone  boiled  codfish,  chop  the  meat,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  minced  parsley,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  and  mix  together.  Eub  together  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  with  one  of  flour,  add  it  to  a  cup  of 
boiling  milk  or  cream,  and  boil  together  three  minutes. 
Then  add  the  fish  and  allow  all  to  cool.  When  cool, 
make  balls  or  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

391.    BLUED  EEL. 

Uhoř  afi  modro. 

Eel  must  be  skinned.  Fasten  it  to  the  table  with  a 
fork,  slit  the  skin  on  the  head  and  with  the  aid  of  a 
cloth  or  napkin  skin  carefully,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  gall  bag  which  is  found  near  the  head.  Wash 
in  cold  water  and  cut  into  pieces.  In  a  pan  place  one 
celery  root,  one  parsley  root,  a  carrot,  an  onion,  all 
sliced,  a  bay  leaf,  a  bit  of  sage,  a  few  whole  black  pep- 
pers and  a  few  allspice,  salt  and  enough  vinegar  to  co- 
ver and  let  all  simmer  together  half  an  hour.  Then  add 
the  eel,  a  wineglass  of  wine,  and  if  necessary,  more  vine- 
gar to  cover,  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  When  done, 
arrange  the  fish  in  a  dish  and  strain  the  sauce  over  it. 
You  may  also  serve  Hollandaise  sauce  in  addition. 
This  is  made  as  follows:  mix  smooth  a  tablespoon  each 
of  flour  and  cold  water,  add  six  yolks,  four  tablespoons 
of  butter,  cream  together,  add  twelve  whole  black  pep- 
pers, a  bit  of  ground  mace,  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which 


FISH.  129 

the  fish  boiled,  aud  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly. However,  it  must  not  boil.  Add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 

392.    EEL  WITH  MAYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

Ulior  s  majonézou. 

Prepare  as  described  in  recipe  339  ''Marinated 
Carp'\  Arrange  on  a  platter  in  a  circle,  pour  mayon- 
naise in  the  center  and  garnish  around  with  aspic. 

393.  FRIED  EEL. 

Uhoř  smažený. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  fried  carp. 

394.    BROILED  EEL. 

Úhoř  pečený   na  rošti. 

Skin,  wash  and  cut  into  pieces  about  three  inches 
long,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  let  it  stand  thus  an 
hour.  Fasten  three  or  four  pieces  together  with  a  tooth- 
pick, placing  a  sage  leaf  on  each  piece.  Butter  the 
broiler,  place  the  fish  on  it  and  brown  on  both  sides, 
dust  with  bread  crumbs,  take  out  the  toothpicks,  place 
the  meat  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

395.    ROAST  EEL. 

Pečený   úhoř. 

Skin  and  clean  the  fish,  salt,  cover  and  let  it  stand 
an  hour.  Heat  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  pan,  add  a  bit  of 
sage,  cover  and  let  it  stand  thus  in  a  warm  place  fif- 
teen minutes.  Now  dry  the  eel,  strain  the  butter  into 
a  shallow  pan,  put  the  eel  on  two  thin  slices  of  bread, 
and  roast  on  both  sides.  When  done,  arrange  on  a  plat- 
ter, garnish  with  the  bread  sprinkled  with  lemon  juice, 
and  serve. 

396.    MARINATED  EEL. 

Marínovaný  úhor. 

This  is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  max'inated 
carp,   (recipe  339). 

Cook  Book  9 


130  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Oysters,^  Crabs,  Shell  Fish,  Frogs,  Etc. 
Ostřice,  raci,  žáby,  atd. 

397.    RAW  OYSTERS. 

UstHcG  syrové. 
Oysters  are  edible  from  September    to    April,    the 
''K'^  months.     When  eaten  raw,  they  are  served  with 
catsnp,    vinegar,    salt,    pepper,    Worcestershire    sauce 
and  lemon  juice,  and  oyster  crackers. 

398.  FRIED   OYSTERS. 

UstNce  smažené. 

Dry  the  oysters,  which  should  be  large.  For  two 
dozen  oysters  beat  two  eggs  and  one  yolk,  dip  the  oysters 
in  flour,  then  in  the  eggs  and  then  in  finely  powdered 
cracker  crumbs  or  corn  meal.  Fry  quickly  in  hot  fat, 
composed  of  equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard. 

399.  BAKED   OYSTERS. 

Ustnce  pečené. 

Butter  a  pan  or  skillet,  dust  the  bottom  with  bread 
crumbs,  place  in  it  a  layer  of  oysters,  salt  and  pepper 
them,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  the  liquor  mixed  with  milk 
and  continue  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being 
of  bread  crumbs  dotted  w^itli  butter.  Pour  over  all  a 
cup  of  milk  mixed  with  a  beaten  egg  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

400.    FRICASSEED    OYSTERS. 

Ustnce  s  podpouHhou. 

Boil  the  liquor  from  two  dozen  oysters  with  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  a  small  amount  of  beef  soup  and  a  pinch 
of  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Add  the  oysters,  boil  about  two 
minutes,  then  take  them  out  and  strain  the  liquor. 
Brown  together  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  one  of  butter, 
add  enough  liquor  to  make  a  fairly  thick  gravy,  salt, 
pepper  and  simmer  about  ten  minutes.    Beat  two  yolks 


SHELL  FISH,  FROGS,  ETC.  131 

or  one  egg  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  jnice  of 
one  lemon,  add  this  to  tlie  grav.v,  strain  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  while  constantly  stirring,  but  it  must  not  boil. 
Place  the  oysters  in  a  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them 
and  garnish  with  rice  croquettes.  The  oysters  can  be 
kept  warm  while  the  gravy  is  being  made  by  setting  the 
dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

401.    CREAMED    OYSTERS. 

UstHce  s  hiloii  omáčkou. 
Bring  to  a  boil  the  liquor  from  two  quarts  of 
oysters,  add  the  oysters  and  in  a  moment  or  two  take 
them  out.  Salt  the  liquor,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  cup  of  cream  thickened  with  a 
tablespoon  of  flour,  two  beaten  yolks  or  one  egg,  and 
let  all  simmer  gently,  stirring  constantly;  it  must  not 
boil.  Place  the  oysters  in  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  gravy 
over  them,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

402.    OYSTER   STEW. 

Ustřice  V  mléce. 
To  a  quart  of  oysters  heat  a  quart  of  milk,  to  the 
boiling  point,  thicken'  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
a  teaspoon  of  flour.  When  it  begins  to  bubble,  add  the 
oysters  with  a  little  of  their  liquor  and  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  rise,  take  off  the  stove,  salt,  pepper  and  serve. 

403.    BROILED    OYSTERS. 

Roštěné  list  nee. 
Drain  nice,  large  oysters,  dip  each  in  melted  butter 
and  broil  quickly.  When  brown  on  both  sides,  add  salt, 
pepper,  butter  and  place  on  hot  buttered  toast,  which 
has  been  ^slio-htlv  moistened  witli  milk.  These  must  be 
eaten  hot. 

CLAMS. 

Mušle. 

Hard  clams  are  small  and  rounded,  soft  clams  are 

larger  and  oblong.    They  are  edible  from  the  beginning 

of  May  to  the  end  of  August,  at  a  time  when  oysters  are 


132  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

not  in  season.     Before  cooking  in  any   way,    llie   hard 
mnscle  mnst  be  taken  out  of  each. 

404.    BAKED   SOFT   CLAMS. 

Pečené  měhké  mušle. 
On  each  shell  lay  one  large  or  two  small  clams,  salt 
and  pepi^er,  sprinkle  each  with  half  a  teaspoon  of 
minced  parsley  stems,  six  small  dice  of  bacon,  rub  with 
butter  and  roast  in  the  oven  until  a  golden  brown.  Ar- 
range on  a  platter  lined  with  a  napkin,  garnish  with 
parsley  or  cress  and  serve. 

405.  TRIED  SOFT  CLAMS. 

Smažené  ínéhlcé  mušle. 
Take  out  of  the  shells,  cut  out  the  large  muscle  and 
drain  on  a  napkin,  then  salt,  pepper  and  dust  with  flour, 
dip  in  a  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
fat.    Serve  garnished  with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley. 

406.  CLAM'S  WITH  CREAM. 

MuÁle  se  smetanou. 
Boil  the  liquor,  place  the  clams  in  it  and  let  them 
harden  a  trifle,  then  take  out  and  drain.  Fry  slightly 
one  minced  onion  in  butter,  add  the  clams,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper,  a  wineglass  of  wine  and  a  tablespoon 
of  cognac,  and  heat  thoroughly,  then  thicken  with  cream 
mixed  with  beaten  yolks  and  butter.  Stir  constantly 
and  do  not  let  it  boil,  then  pour  over  the  clams  and 
serve  with  small  pieces  of  toast. 

407.    CLAM  STEW. 

Dušené  mušle. 
Boil  the  liquor  from  50  clams.  In  the  niean  time 
mince  the  clams.  Skim  the  boiling  liquor,  add  two  cups 
of  water  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  minced 
clams,  pepper  and  simmer  five  minutes.  Then  add  two 
tablespoons  of  fresh  butter,  two  cups  of  milk,  and  serve 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  after  adding  a  few  crackers 
broken  into  small  bits. 


SHELL  FISH,  FROGS,  ETC.  133 

408.  CLAM    CHOWDER    No.    1. 

Dušeiiiím  z  mušlí. 
Place  in  a  deep  kettle  half  a  pound  of  minced  ba- 
con or  ham,  three  potatoes  cut  into  small  dice,  minced 
onion,  a  pinch  each  of  thyme,  marjoram,  green  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper.  Then  add  a  layer  of  veal  (one  pound) 
cut  into  half  inch  dice,  then  a  layer  of  two  cups  of 
canned  or  stewed  tomatoes,  and  finally  a  layer  of  50 
clams,  minced.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  and 
simmer  gently  half  an  hour,  without  stirring.  Then 
add  two  cups  of  milk,  six  crackers  broken  fine,  stir 
thoroughly,  boil  ten  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot.  The 
tomatoes  may  be  omitted,  if  desired. 

409.  CLAM    CHOWDER    No.    2. 

Dušenina  z  viušlí  na  jiný  způsob. 
Fry  three  or  four  slices  of  bacon  cut  into  dice,  add 
a  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  large  onion  minced  fine  and 
two  potatoes  cut  into  dice.  Cover  and  stew  until  the 
potatoes  and  onion  are  tender,  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  add  the  contents  of 
a  can  of  clams,  take  away  from  the  fire  immediately, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

410.    BOILED    CRABS. 

Raci   vaření. 

Wash  the  crabs,  place  in  a  kettle,  add  caraway  seed 
and  pepper,  enough  salted  boiling  water  to  cover,  cover 
well  and  boil  briskly  fifteen  minutes  or  longer.  Drain, 
arrange  on  a  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley.  They 
should  be  a  bright  scarlet  color. 

411.    FRIED    CRABS. 

Bad  smažení. 

Boil  the  crabs  as  directed  above,  shell,  dust  with 
flour  to  whicli  you  have  added  salt  and  minced  parsley, 
and  fry  in  butter  over  a  hot  fire.  Arrange  on  a  dish 
and  serve  with  fried  parsley. 


134  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

412.    STEWED   CRABS. 

I^aci  dušení. 
Take  the  meat  out  of  the  claws  and  tails  of  large 
crabs,  cut  fine  and  mix  with  a  fourth  of  the  amount  of 
bread  crumbs  and  a  bit  of  minced  parsley.  Salt  and 
pepper,  stuff  the  shells,  place  in  a  ,pan,  dot  with  bits 
of  butter,  sprinkle  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  cover  and  bake  in  the 
oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

413.    HARD  SHELL  CRABS. 

Krahi  tvrdí. 

Boil  about  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water, 
then  serve.  Or  you  may  mince  the  meat,  mix  it  with 
half  the  amount  of  boiled  rice,  add  a  pinch  each  of  salt, 
paprika,  nutmeg,  thyme,  moisten  with  milk  and  fill  the 
shells  with  this.  Dust  with  bread  crumbs,  put  a  tíit  of 
butter  on  each  crab  and  bake  in  the  oven. 

414.    LOBSTER. 

II  u  mra. 
Tie  the  claws  together,  place  the  lobster  in  boiling 
salted  water  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound.'    If 
boiled  too  long,  the  meat  will  be    tough.     When    done, 
halve  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 

415.    CANNED   LOBSTERS. 

Humry  nakládané. 

These  are  served  with  mayonnaise  or  with  vinegar 
and  pepper. 

416.    SHRIMPS. 

Mořští  váčkové. 
These  are  boiled  in  boiling  salted  water  a  few  mo- 
ments and  they  may  then  be  placed  in  hot  butter  a  few 
moments.  As  far  as  the  inland  markets  are  concerned, 
they  are  sold  mostly  in  cans,  in  which  case  they  should 
be  washed  in  fresh  cold  water  before  using. 


SHELL  FISH,  FROGS,  ETC.  135 

417.    TURTLE. 

Želva. 
Kill  the  turtle  as  described  in  the  recipe  for  turtle 
soup,  remove  the  top  shell,  take  out  the  meat,  being 
careful  to  reject  all  the  internal  organs  and  the  gall 
bag,  and  cut  the  meat  up.  Fry  a  minced  onion  in  but- 
ter, add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  when  it  has  browned 
a  little,  add  beef  soup,  a  wineglass  of  wine,  a  bit  of 
pepper,  the  rind  (minced)  of  two  lemons,  a  bit  of  minced 
parsley,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  boil  until  smooth. 
Simmer  the  meat  in  this  sauce,  when  done  place  in  a 
dish,  pour  over  it  the  strained  sauce,  and  serve  w^ith 
small  pieces  of  toast. 

418.    FROG    LEGS    A    LA    POULETTE. 

Zadélávaná  žabí  stehynl'a. 
The  hind  legs  of  frogs  marked  with  a  green  stripe 
on  the  back  are  the  ony  edible  kind.  Soak  them  twenty- 
four  hours  in  fresh  water  (after  being  skinned  and 
cleaned),  then  parboil  in  hot  salted  water.  Then  place 
them  in  a  skillet  with  a  piece  of  butter,  sprinkle  with 
lemon  juice  and  simmer  a  while.  Then  thicken  with 
butter  and  flour  browned  together,  simmer  until  ten- 
der and  before  serving  add  two  or  three  beaten  yolks, 
thinned  with  beef  soup,  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley, 
and  serve. 

419.    FROG   LEGS   WITH   EGGS. 

Zahi  stehýnka  s  vejci. 
Skin  the  legs  and  salt,  leaving  them  thus  a  while, 
then  bone  and  mince  the  meat  fine.  Place  a  piece  of 
butter  in  a  skillet,  one  minced  onion,  a  tablespoon  of 
minced  parsley  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Add  the  minced 
meat  to  this  and  simmer  uncovered  until  the  liquor 
that  forms  is  absorbed  again,  then  add  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, thicken  with  a  few  beaten  eggs  and  serve  in  a  hot 
dish. 


136  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

420.    FRIED    FROG   LEGS. 

Smažeiiá  žal)í  síeliýnl:a. 
Skin  the  legs,  place  in  a  deep  dish,  salt,  pour  over 
them  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil,  minced  onion  and  minced 
parsley  and  allow  to  stand  thus  an  hour.  Drain,  dust 
with  flour,  dip  in  beaten  ^g^  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  in 
hot  fat  and  serve  with  parsley. 

Eggs. — Vejce. 

421.    BOILED  EGGS. 

Vejce  vařená. 

Soft-boiled  eggs  are  such  when  the  yolk  is  liquid 
and  the  white  not  too  hard.  This  may  be  attained  by 
placing  fresh  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  immediately 
withdrawing  the  dish  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  allow- 
ing them  to  stand  thus  in  hot  water  (not  boiling)  five 
minutes.  These  are  especially  digestible  for  sick  people. 
Another  way  is  to  place  the  eggs  in  cold  water  and  let 
them  come  to  the  boiling  point.  As  soon  as  the  water 
begins  to  boil,  count  twelve  very  slowly.  And  still  an- 
other way  is  to  place  them  in  boiling  water  and  let  them 
boil  three  minutes.  When  boiled  five  minutes,  they 
will  be  half  hard,  and  when  boiled  eight  or  ten  minutes, 
they  will  be  hard. 

422.    FRIED  EGGS. 

Vejce  smažená. 
Melt  three  tablespoons  of  lard  and  one  of  butter  in 
a  smooth  skillet.  When  hot,  break  into  the  fat  one  egg 
at  the  time,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk.  When 
there  is  any  question  about  the  eggs  being  fresh,  it  is 
best  to  break  them  first  into  a  saucer  and  examine  each. 
When  the  eggs  begin  to  fry,  throw  the  hot  fat  over 
them  with  a  tablespoon,  which  fries  them  on  top  and 
makes  them  look  nicer  than  if  turned.  Fried  eggs  are 
usually  served  with  fried  ham  or  bacon  and  make  an 
ideal  breakfast  dish. 


EGGS.  137 

423.    SCRAMBLED    EGGS. 

Vejce   míchaná. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  skillet,  pour  in  the  eggs 
beaten  together,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  they 
begin  to  thicken,  scrape  from  the  bottom  and  sides. 
Milk  or  cream  may  be  added,  a  tablespoon  to  each  ^gg^ 
also  minced  chives  or  parsley. 

424.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  HAM. 

Míchaná  vejce  se  šunlcou. 

Mince  fine  boiled  ham  (the  small  ends  may  be  used 
this  way).  Fry  in  butter  with  minced  chives  or  par- 
sley, add  pepper  and  finally  mix  with  scrambled  eggs. 
Or  you  may  add  the  minced  ham  to  the  eggs  while  they 
are  being  fried.  Or  you  may  cut  bacon  into  dice,  fry 
it  in  its  own  fat  and  then  add  the  beaten  eggs  and 
scramble  all  together.  Minced  anchovies  and  parsley, 
stewed  in  butter,  may  also  be  added  to  the  eggs. 

425.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ANCHOVIES. 

Míchaná  vejce  se  sardelemi. 

Beat  several  eggs  with  two  tablespoons  of  sour 
cream,  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  anchovies  or  herring  cut  into  thin  strips,  and 
scramble  together. 

426.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Míchaná  vejce  se  sýrem. 

Beat  several  eggs  with  salt,  pepper,  add  diced  Swiss 
cheese,  proceed  as  with  scrambled  eggs  and  when  ready 
to  serve,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Boiled  asparagus 
tips,  stewed  mushrooms,  fried  onion,  fried  chicken  li- 
ver, etc.  may  each  be  added  to  scrambled  eggs. 

427.    SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Míchaná   vejce  s   houbami. 
Clean  and  dice  fresh  mushrooms,    stew    in   butter, 
adding  a  pinch  of  caraway  seed,  salt  and  minced  par- 


138  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

sley.  Stew  until  tlie  juice  has  been  absorbed,  then  add 
more  butter.  Beat  several  eggs  with  a  little  cream,  pour 
into  the  pan  and  proceed  as  with  scrambled  eggs. 

428.    POACHED   EGGS. 

Ztracená  vejce. 
Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  pan,  add  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  one  of  water,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Break  eggs  into  a  saucer,  one  at  the  time,  and 
slip  each  carefully  into  the  boiling  water.  Boil  five 
minutes,  take  out  with  a  skimer  and  pour  melted  but- 
ter over  each,  serving  them  on  toast. 

429.    FRIED  POACHED  EGGS. 

Smažená  ztracená  vejce. 

Poach  eggs  as  shown  in  the  preceding  recipe  and 
let  them  get  cool.  Then  brush  with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot 
butter. 

430.    BAKED    EGGS. 
Pečená  vejce. 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  five  yolks,  a 
teaspoon  of  flour,  salt  and  mix  together,  then  add  a 
little  vinegar,  two  cups  of  thick  sour  cream,  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  mix  together  thoroughly.  Then  add  ten 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  dice.  Pour  all  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  melted  butter  and  bake  in 
the  oven. 

431.    BAKED  EGGS  WITH  MASHED  POTATOES. 

Pečená  vejce  s  bramborovou  kaší. 
Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  smooth,  seasoning  with 
salt,  butter,  hot  milk  or  cream  and  pepper.  Put  them  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  then  with  a  small  croquette 
mold  (you  may  use  a  clean  egg,  if  the  mold  is  lacking) 
make  deejj  little  hollows  in  the  potatoes.  Drop  care- 
fully a  raw  egg  into  each  hollow,  dust  each  with  salt  and 


EGGS.  139 

pepper,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  in  the  oven.     Serve 
at  once. 

432.    EGGS  BAKED  IN  SOUR  CREAM. 

Sázená  vejce  v  Ij/selé  smetané. 

Pour  a  cnp  of  sbnr  cream  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  break  into  this  six  eggs,  one  next  to  the  other,  dot 
with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  set. 

433.    FRIED  STUFFED  EGGS. 

Smažená  nadívaná  vejce. 

Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as  you  wish  to  use.  Cut 
off  the  ends,  so  that  the  eggs  stand  up.  Cut  off  the 
other  end  deeper,  so  that  you  can  take  out  the  yolk. 
Cream  the  ^^olks  to  a  paste.  Cream  a  piece  of  butter, 
add  the  creamed  yolks,  minced  parsley,  anchovies  cut 
into  bits,  a  few  tablespoons  of  cream,  bread  crumbs,  salt 
and  mix  together.  Stuff  the  eggs  with  this,  place  on 
each  the  top  that  has  been  sliced  off,  dip  each  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  flour  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.  Brown  flour  and  butter  together,  thin  with 
beef  soup,  add  anchovies  cut  into  dice,  minced  parsley, 
lemon  juice,  a  few  tablespoons  of  cream,  boil  together 
and  pour  over  the  eggs. 

434.    BAKED  STUFFED  EGGS. 

Pečená  nadívaná  vejce. 

Halve  hard-boiled  eggs,  take  out  the  yolks,  cream 
with  a  piece  of  butter,  add  two  raw  eggs,  a  bit  of  minced 
lemon  rind,  minced  parsley,  salt,  milk  and  enough  bread 
crumbs  to  form  a  dressing.  If  you  wish,  you  may  add 
anchovy  paste,  minced  crab  meat,  stewed  goose  liver, 
minced  stewed  sweetbreads  or  mushrooms.  Mix  to- 
gether, fill  the  whites,  place  the  eggs  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing pan,  thin  the  remaining  mixture  with  cream,  place 
it  around  the  eggs  and  bake  half  an  liour. 


140  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK.       ' 

435.    STUFFED  EGGS  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE. 

Nadívaná  vejce  s  hílou  omáčkou. 
Hardboil  six  eggs  and  cool.  Cut  in  halves,  take  out 
and  cream  the  yolks,  add  half  the  amount  of  minced 
ham,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  the  whites  with  this  and  place  in  a  baking  pan, 
pouring  over  all  the  following  sauce:  melt  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
when  it  has  blended  with  the  butter,  add  a  cup  of  milk, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  when  smooth,  230ur  over  the  eggs, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and  bake. 

436.    DEVILED   EGGS. 

Nadívaná  vejce. 
Halve  hard-boiled  eggs^  lengthwise  or  crosswise. 
Cream  the  yolks,  add  dry  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  melted 
butter,  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  taste,  mix  thoroughly, 
and  fill  the  whites  with  this.  These  are  nice  for  picnic 
lunches. 

437.    SOUR   EGGS. 

Vejce  na  kyselo. 
Melt  a  piece  of  butter,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and 
when  it  bubbles,  add  a  few  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and 
while  stirring  constantly  add  enough  milk  to  form  a 
gravy.  While  this  is  boiling,  add  a  pinch  of  mace,  then 
break  in  as  many  eggs  as  you  wish,  let  them  set  stiff  in 
the  gravy  and  serve. 

438.    EGGS  WITH  SOUR  CREAM'. 

Vejce  s  kyselou  smetanovou  omáčkou. 
Boil  together  two  cups  of  water,  two  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  a  dash  of  salt  and  sugar,  two  or  three  table- 
spoons of  minced  fresh  dill.  ^Mix  together  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  with  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  beat  it  into  the  boil- 
ing water  and  when  bubbling,  break  into  it  five  or  six 
eggs.    Se.rve  with  boiled  beef. 


EGGS.  141 

439.    EGGS  WITH  POTATOES. 

VejcG  s   hrmnhory. 

Slice  several  hard-boiled  eggs  and  as  many  cold 
boiled  potatoes.  Butter  a  pan,  place  a  layer  of  potatoes 
in  the  bottom,  sprinkle  with  minced  chives,  salt  and 
pepper,  then  a  layer  of  eggs  and  so  fill  up  the  pan,  the 
top  layer  being  of  potatoes.  Beat  four  yolks  or  two 
eggs  with  a  cup  of  sour  cream  or  sweet  milk,  pour  over 
the  mixture  and  bake.  You  may  sprinkle  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter. 

440.   EGG   TOAST. 

Vejce  pečená  s  topinkami. 
Butter  a  shallow  baking  dish,  put  in  it  a  layer  of 
toast,  cut  into  narrow  strips,  then  a  layer  of  hard-boiled 
whites  of  eggs,  cut  into  slices,  then  another  layer  of 
toast.  Sprinkle  with  the  yolks  pressed  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  pour  over  all  a  rich  cream  sauce  highly  seasoned, 
and  place  in  the  oven  until  well  browned. 

441.    PICKLED   EGGS. 

Naložená  vejce. 

Hardboil  two  dozen  eggs,  shell  and  place  in  a  stone 
jar.  Boil  together  five  minutes  two  cups  of  vine- 
gar, six  or  eight  allspice,  a  piece  of  ginger,  four  or  five 
cloves,  a  clove  of  garlic,  then  pour  over  the  eggs.  These 
are  to  be  used  in  two  weeks.  The  vinegar  in  which 
beets  have  been  pickled  may  be  used,  as  it  makes  the 
eggs  a  pretty  red  color. 

442.    PLAIN   OMELETTE   No.    1. 

Jednoduchá  omeletlca. 

Beat  with  a  fork  four  eggs,  add  four  tablespoons 
of  cold  water  (one  tablespoon  to  each  egg),  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  if  you  like,  add  minced  parsley  or  chives.  Heat 
a  teaspoon  of  butter  in  the  skillet,  pour  the  beaten  eggs 
into  it  and  bake  rather  slowly,  occasionally  lifting  up 
the  edges  with  a  knife,  so  the  liquid  runs  into  the  bot- 


142  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

torn  of  the  pan.    When  thoronglily  set,  roll  one  end  over 
the  other  and  serve  on  a  hot  plate. 

443.  PLAIN   OMELETTE   No.    2. 

Jednoduchá  omeJetka  na  jiný  způsob. 

Use  two  eggs  to  each  person,  a  tablespoon  of  milk 
or  a  teaspoon  of  cream.  Beat  the  eggs  with  the  milk 
and  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  a  bit  of  butter  or 
lard  in  the  skillet,  pour  into  it  the  beaten  eggs,  so  that 
the  mixture  spreads  evenly.  Proceed  as  described  in 
the  preceding  recipe,  roll  the  omelette  and  serve  on  a 
hot  plate.  You  may  sprinkle  with  sugar,  before  roll- 
ing, or  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Omelettes  should  be  a 
golden  color  on  top  and  soft  inside. 

444.  PLAIN    OMELETTE    No.    3. 

J ed noduchá  omelctka  ješté  na  jiný  způsob. 

Beat  eight  yolks,  add  the  grated  rind  of  half  a 
lemon,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  salt,  the  beaten 
whites,  and  mix  together  very  carefully.  Melt  a  piece 
of  butter  in  a  skillet,  pour  in  part  of  the  mixture,  bake 
a  golden  brown  and  continue  until  all  is  used  up. 
Sprinkle  the  omelette  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon and  serve  on  a  warm  platter. 

445.  PLAIN    OMELETTE    No.    4. 

Jednoduchá  onieletl'a  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 

Beat  several  eggs,  add  as  many  tablespoons  of  flour 
as  there  are  eggs,  salt  and  enough  milk  to  make  the 
mixture  thin,  a  little  thicker  than  for  x^ancakes.  Beat 
thoroughly.  Heat  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  skillet,  pour 
into  it  a  part  of  this  mixture,  when  baked  on  one  side 
turn  and  bake  on  the  other.  When  done,  take  it  out, 
put  more  butter  and  mixture  into  the  skillet  and 
proceed  thus  until  you  have  baked  all  the  batter. 
Sprinkle  each  omelette  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon, roll,  dust  with  fine  sugar  and  arrange  on  a  hot 
platter. 


EGGS.  143 

446.  OMELETTE  WITH  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Omeletka  s  jablky. 
Bake  the  omelettes  as  described  above.  Butter  the 
skillet,  place  in  it  one  omelette,  spread  an  inch  thick 
with  apple  sauce  or  apple  butter,  place  on  it  the  other 
omelette.  Beat  one  white,  add  to  it  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  blanched  almonds  cut  into  strips 
and  a  dash  of  minced  lemon  rind.  Spread  the  top  of 
the  omelette  with  this  and  let  it  brown  in  the  oven. 

447.    BAKED  OMELETTE. 

Pečená  otneletka. 
Beat  five  or  six  eggs.  Mix  half  a  teaspoon  of 
cornstarch  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  flour  and  two  table- 
spoons of  milk,  then  add  enough  milk  to  make  not 
quite  a  cupful.  Cream  is  better  than  milk.  Add  this 
to  the  beaten  eggs,  mix,  salt  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
hot  pan.    Bake  in  the  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

448.    OMELETTE  WITH  HAM. 

OineUtl'a  se  šunkou. 
Beat    the    eggs    with    minced    ham,    fried    minced 
onion,  salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley  or  chives,  and  cream, 
if  you    wish.      Bake    as    described    in    the    preceding 
recipes. 

449.    OMELETTE  WITH  BACON. 

Omeletl'a  s  uzeným  špehem. 
Cut  the  bacon  into  dice,  parboil  in  salted  water, 
then  fry  in  a  skillet    and    pour  off    the  fat.     Make  a 
plain    omelette  and    when  ready  to  serve,    spread  the 
bacon  over  the  top  and  roll.    Garnish  with  parsley. 

450.    OMELETTE  WITH  MEAT  STUFFING. 

Omeletka  s  masitou  nádivkou. 
Make  a  plain  omelette,  spreading  the  top  with 
minced  ham,  stewed  and  minced  sweetbreads,  kidneys, 
brains,  goose  liver,  oysters,  crabs  or  fish  meat.  Each 
of  these  must  be  minced  and  stewed  in  butter  before 
spreading.    Roll  the  omelette  and  serve. 


144  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

451.  OMELETTE  WITH  VEGETABLES. 

Omeletka  se  zeleninou. 
Bake  a  plain  omelette,  spread  with    boiled    green 
peas,  minced  fried  onion,   or  any    suitable    vegetable, 
minced  or  diced. 

452.    OMELETTE  WITH  CHEESE. 

Otneletl'a  se  sýrem. 
Proceeding  as  described  in  the  preceding  recipes, 
stirring  grated  or  diced  cheese  into  the  omelet  before 
baking. 

453.    OMELETTE  SOUFFLE. 

OmeletJca  třená. 
Mix  fonr  yolks  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a 
bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  and  cream  together  fifteen 
minutes,  then  fold  in  carefully  four  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep  buttered  baking  pan  and 
bake  about  ten  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

454.    SWEET  OMELETTE. 

Moučná  sladivá  omeletka. 
Separate  three  eggs.  Add  three  tablespoons  of 
sugar  to  the  yolks  and  beat  together  five  minutes  or 
more.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  them  to  the  yolks,  then 
add  carefully  three  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour.  The 
whites  and  flour  should  be  folded  in  carefully,  other- 
wise the  omelette  will  not  be  li^ht.  Melt  a  teaspoon 
of  butter  in  the  skillet,  pour  in  the  mixture  about  an 
inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  When 
done,  spread  with  strawberry  or  raspberry  preserves 
or  jelly,  roll  and  serve  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar. 

455.    SPONGE  OMELETTE. 

Omeletka  piškotová. 
Beat  six  yolks  with  six  tablespoons  of  sugar;  beat 
the  whites  and  add  them  carefully  to  the  yolks.  Melt 
a  teaspoon  of  butter  in  a  pan  and  pour  into  it  about  a 
third  of  the  mixture.  When  baked,  take  it  out  and  put 
in  another  third,  and.  when  all  three  are  baked,  butter 


EGGS.  145 

tlie  pan  again,  place  in  it  one  omelette,  spread  it  with 
strawberry  or  raspberry  jam,  place  on  it  the  other 
omelette  spread  with  jam  and  add  the  third  omelette, 
sprinkling-  this  last  with  powdered  sngar  and  lemon 
juice,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  medium  hot  oven. 

456.  OMELETTE  WITH  MILK  CHEESE. 

Omeletka  nadívaná  tvarolieiti. 
Mix  in  a  bowl  five  yolks  with  three  teaspoons  of 
melted  butter  and  three  teaspoons  of  sugar,  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  as  for  pancakes.  Then  add 
carefully  the  five  beaten  whites.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter 
in  a  skillet,  pour  in  a  part  of  the  batter  and  bake  on 
both  sides.  Take  it  out,  add  more  butter  and  bake 
the  rest.  Spread  each  with  milk  cheese,  roll  and  place 
in  a  buttered  pan.  Pour  under  half  a  cup  or  a  cup  of 
milk  mixed  with  a  beaten  egg,  and  bake  about  ten 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  being  careful  that  they  do  not 
get  too  dry. 

457.    POTATO  OMELETTE. 

Omeletka   hmmborová. 

Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  cold 
boiled  grated  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  of  grated 
blanched  almonds,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  tw^elve 
yolks,  salt,  and  mix  together,  then  fold  in  carefully  the 
beaten  whites.  Bake  three  omelettes  of  this  mixture, 
on  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  place  one  on  top  of 
another  and  serve. 

458.    BUTTERMILK    OMELETTE. 
Omeletka  s  podmáslíui. 

Mix  together  four  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately)  a  cup  of  buttermilk,  half  a  teaspoon  ef 
baking  soda,  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  finely  rolled 
cracker  crumbs,  a  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper.  Heat  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 
pour  the  mixture  into  same,  fry  a  light  brown,  then 
place  in  the  oven  ten  minutes.  When  firm,  roll  and 
serve. 

Cook  Book  10 


146  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Vegetables. — Zeleniny. 

Young  green  vegetables  should  be  placed  in  boil- 
ing salted  water. 

Medium  sized  potatoes  should  be  boiled  half  an 
hour. 

Green  peas  boil  tender  in  half  to  three  quarters  of 
an  hour. 

String  beans  require  two  hours  or  more,  and  the 
water  is  poured  off  once,  to  take  aAvay  the  bitter  taste. 

Lima  beans  require  three  quarters  of  an  liour  from 
the  time  they  begin  to  boil. 

Asparagus  requires  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Spinach  requires  fifteen  minutes,  after  being  placed 
in  boiling  water. 

Green  corn  requires  five  minutes'  boiling.  It  is 
placed  in  boiling  salted  water. 

459.    BOILED  POTATOES. 

Brambory   vařené. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  an 
hour.  Then  place  them  in  boiling  water  and  boil  slowly, 
until  done.  Drain,  take  off  the  cover,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  shake  the  dish,  so  that  all  the  moisture  evaporates. 
Then  cover  and  let  them  stand  in  a  warm  place  a  few 
minutes  before  serving.  Old  potatoes  are  better  if 
placed  in  cold  water  and  allowed  to  come  to  the  boiling 
point. 

460.   POTATOES  BOILED  IN  THEIR  JACKETS. 

Brambory  na  loupacku. 
Wash  the  potatoes,  place  in  a  kettle,  pour  cold 
water  over  them,  add  salt,  and  boil  until  done.  Then 
drain,  cover  the  kettle  with  a  cloth,  and  allow  them  to 
steam  a  while.  Serve  in  the  jackets,  with  fresh  butter 
and  salt. 


VEGETABLES.  147 

461.    BOILED  NEW  POTATOES. 

Nové  brambory  vařené. 
Scrape  the  potatoes,  wash  in  cold  water,  place  in 
a  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Add  salt,  a  pinch 
of  caraway  seed,  green  parsley  and  boil.  When  done, 
drain,  take  ont  the  parsley,  shake  the  potatoes  into  a 
dish,  allow  them  to  stand  tluis  a  few  moments  in  a 
warm  place,  tlien  pour  melted  butter  over  them  and 
serve.  You  may  add  minced  parsley  or  fried  onion 
to  the  butter. 

462.    BAKED  POTATOES. 

Bramborij  pečené. 

Wash  medium-sized  potatoes,  cut  a  thin  slice  off 
of  each  end,  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven.  If  baked  in 
a  very  hot  oven,  they  will  be  soggy. 

463.    POTATOES    WITH    BACON. 

Brambory  se  špekem. 
Cut  fresh  bacon  and  a  small  onion  into    dice    and 
fry,  then  add  boiled  sliced  potatoes,  salt,  x)epper  and 
fry  a  golden  brown. 

464.  GERMAN  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Brambory  os  maž  en  é. 
Boil  small  potatoes  and  cool,  or  use  left-overs,  peel 
and  slice.  Heat  a  tablespoon  of  lard  in  a  skillet,  when 
hot  add  the  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  and  turn  with  a 
knife,  until  well  fried.  Place  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

465.  FRENCH    FRIED    POTATOES. 

Brambory  snuižené. 
Cut  rather  large  potatoes  in  eighths  and  soak  one 
hour  in  salted  cold  water.  Heat  a  liberal  quantity  of 
lard  in  a  kettle.  Dry  the  potatoes  thoroughly  with  a 
napkin  and  place  in  the  lard.  A  frying  basket  faci- 
litates this  work.     They  must  be  fried  a  deep    brown" 


148       .  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

all  over  and  be  soft  in  the  center.    Drain  thoroughly 
and  serve  in  a  heated  dish. 

466.  FRIED  POTATOES. 

Brambory  smažené  na  jiní)  způsob. 
Slice  peeled  potatoes,  soak  half  an  hour  in  cold 
water,  then  dry  with  a  napkin.  Place  in  a  kettle  half 
lard  and  half  butter,  salt  and  pepper  the  potatoes,  place 
them  in  the  skillet  and  cover.  Turn  with  a  knife  so 
they  fry  a  nice  brown. 

467.  SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

SaratogsTcé  bramboi-y. 
Cut  the  potatoes  in  very  thin  slices.  Soak  half  an 
hour  in  cold  salted  water,  tlien  dry  with  a  napkin. 
Thorough  drying  is  very  important.  Heat  a  liberal 
quantity  of  lard  and  fry  the  potatoes,  which  requires 
but  a  few  moments.  A  frying' basket  is  very  convenient 
for  this.  If  necessary,  sprinkle  the  fried  potatoes  with 
salt  before  serving. 

468.   MASHED    POTATOES. 

BramJ)orová  haše. 
Boil  until  done,  drain  and  mash  with  a  potato 
masher,  then  add  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  and  enough 
cream  to  make  the  mixture  light  and  creamy.  Form 
in  a  mound  on  a  disli,  i)our  melted  butter  and  fried 
onion  over  them,  add  pepper  and  serve. 

469.    BAKED  MASHED  POTATOES. 

Brainboroud   kaše   pečená. 
Butter  a  baking  dish,  fill  it  with  mashed  potatoes 
prepared  as  described  in  the  preceding  recipe,  dot  with 
bits  of  butter,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  a 
golden  brown. 

470.    POTATO  PUFF. 

Míchané  brambory  pečené. 
Mix  one  yolk  with  one  and  a  half  ciq)s  of  mashed 
"potatoes  (left-overs  may  be  used),  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 


VEGETABLES.  149 

half  a  cup  of  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  the  beaten  white, 
and  stir  carefully.  Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
a  golden  brown. 

471.    SOUR  POTATOES. 

Kyselé   brambory. 

Place  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan,  add 
two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  when  it  bubbles,  add  a 
tablespoon  of  minced  onion.  When  golden  brown, 
add  enough  beef  soup  to  make  a  gravy,  then  add  vine- 
gar to  taste,  minced  lemon  rind,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
let  it  simmer.  Peel  and  slice  boiled  potatoes,  pour  the 
sauce  over  them  and  simmer  a  few  moments  before 
serving. 

472.  CREAMED  POTATOES. 

Dušené   bramhory. 

Old  potatoes  are  made  palatable  this  w^ay.  Fry  a 
minced  onion  in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  add 
half  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  wdien  it  bubbles  a  bit 
add  a  cup  of  milk.  When  it  begins  to  boil  add  a  plate- 
ful of  sliced  boiled  potatoes.  Add  a  bit  of  caraway 
seed,  salt  and  pei)per,  cover  and  put  on  the  back  of  the 
stove.  When  the  potatoes  have  absorbed  the  milk,  they 
are  done. 

473.  STEWED    POTATOES. 

Zadělané   brambory. 

Blend  a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  about  half  that 
amount  of  flour,  add  minced  parsley,  and  wdien  the 
mixture  begins  to  brown,  add  a  minced  onion  and  fry 
a  bit.  Then  add  beef  soup,  vinegar  to  taste,  minced 
lemon  rind,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  pei)])er.  When  this 
has  simmered  a  while,  add  sliced  boiled  ])otatoes  and 
about  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  but  after  this  it  must  not 
boil  any  more. 


150  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

474.    POTATOES  WITH  MARJORAM  GRAVY. 

Brambory  s  marjánkovou  omclckou. 
Blend  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  of  flour, 
add  a  clove  of  garlic  maslied  to  a  paste  with  a  bit  of 
butter,  and  when  all  begins  to  brown,  add  a  few  marjo- 
ram leaves,  then  beef  soup  or  the  liquor  in  which  mutton 
has  boiled  (this  adds  a  very  nice  flavor)  so  that  it 
makes  a  gravy.  Then  add  the  sliced  boiled  potatoes, 
salt,  a  pinch  of  ground  white  ginger,  and  let  it  simmer 
a  bit. 

475.    POTATOES  WITH  MILK. 

Bi'ambory  s  mlékem. 

Slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin,  place  in  a  skillet  with 
a  tablespoon  of  lard,  stirring  constantly.  When  the 
potatoes  are  about  done,  add  a  cup  of  milk.  This  is 
eaten  hot. 

476.  STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Nadívané  hramhory. 
Wash  and  peel  medium-sized  potatoes,  dig  out  a 
cavity  in  each,  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture: 
mince  boiled  or  roast  beef  or  pork,  add  minced  fried 
onion,  salt,  pepper  and  if  necessary  moisten  with  hot 
buttered  water  or  beef  soup.  Butter  a  baking  pan  and 
place  in  it  the  potatoes  stuffed  with  the  mixture.  The 
potatoes  must  stand  firmly,  so  that  the  stuffing  does 
not  fall  out.  Cover  and  bake.  When  done,  uncover 
and  let  them  get  brown. 

477.  POTATO  MUSH   No.   1. 

Brarn  h o ro vé  šl' uh ánl -y. 
Boil  about  a  quart  of  peeled  potatoes,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  when  nearly  done,  add  a  small  cup 
of  flour  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Then  -drain, 
salt  the  potatoes,  add  a  piece  of  butter  and  mash 
smooth.  Take  out  by  the  spoonful,  arrange  one  next 
to  the  other,  and  pour  over  them  melted  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  milk   cheese   or  poppy   seed. 


VEGETABLES.  151 

478.     POTATO  MUSH  No.  2. 

Bramborové  šhuhánhy  na  jiný  zjmsob. 
Peel  as  many  potatoes  as  are  needed,  cut  into 
pieces  and  place  in  cold  water  to  boil.  When  done, 
drain  off  half  the  water  and  make  wells  in  the  potatoes 
with  the  handle  of  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle.  Fill 
these  wells  with  flour  (about  two  cups  in  all)  and  boil 
a  while  longer,  being  careful  not  to  burn  them.  When 
this  has  been  boiling  fifteen  minutes,  salt  and  mash 
thoroughly  until  smooth,  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Then  dip  a  large  spoon  in  melted  butter  or  lard,  and 
take  out  the  mixture  with  it,  placing  one  piece  next  to 
another.  Sprinkle  with  ground  poppy  seed  and  sugar, 
or  grated  milk  cheese,  and  melted  butter. 

479.    POTATO    NOODLES. 

Bramborové  nudle. 
Boil  a  plateful  of  potatoes,  peel  and  while  hot  roll 
out  on  the  molding  board  with  a  rolling  pin,  then 
add  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  three  eggs, 
knead  into  a  dough,  roll  it  thin  and  cut  it  into  large 
noodles,  the  size  of  a  finger.  Butter  a  shallow  pan, 
arrange  the  noodles  in  it  and  bake  a  golden  brown 
on  both  sides.  These  noodles  may  be  boiled  in  salted 
water,  drained  and  served  with  melted  butter  and 
grated  milk  cheese  sprinkled  over  them. 

480.    POTATO  PANCAKES. 

Bramborové   placky  neb    lívance. 
Boil  half  a  dozen  potatoes,  peel  and  cool,  then  grate, 
add  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour,  salt  and  knead  thor- 
oughly.   Make  pancakes  about  half  an  inch  thick.    Fry 
in  lard,  spread  with  jam  and  serve. 

481.    BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Sladké  brambory  pečené. 
Wash  well  and  bake  in  the  oven.     Small  potatoes 
require  half  an  liour  to  bake,  large  ones  an  hour.   Serve 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 


152  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

482.    FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

^Sladké   hranihory  smažené. 
Wasli  and  boil  sweet  potatoes.     When  done,  cool, 
peel  and  halve  each.    Place  a  liberal  quantity  of  butter 
or  lard  in  a  skillet,  salt  the  potatoes,  dip  them  in  flour, 
and  fry  quickly  a  nice  brown. 

483.    TURNIPS. 

Vodnice. 
Peel  and  slice  turnips  and  wash  in  cold  water. 
Place  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan  and  a 
teasi)oon  of  sugar,  and  brown  both  together.  Add  the 
turnips  and  simmer,  adding  mutton  broth  from  time  to 
time,  stirring  carefully.  When  nearly  done,  brown 
butter  and  flour  together,  thin  with  mutton  broth,  pour 
over  the  turnips,  add  a  pinch  of  grated  ginger  and  all^ 
spice,  and  simmer  until  done. 

484.    MASHED  TURNIPS. 

Vodnice  rozmíchaná. 
Boil  sliced  or  diced  turnips  until  tender,  changing 
the  water  once,  lest  it  be  bitter.  Add  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  cover  and  simmer  until  tender.  Drain 
and  mash,  adding  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  two 
or  three  tablespoons  of  cream  and  serve  hot. 

485.      SOUR  TURNIPS. 

Vodnice  na  l-yselo. 
Peel  and  slice  turnips,  then  cut  into  strips,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  them  stand  a  while. 
In  the  meantime  brown  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  with  a 
tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter,  add  the  turnips  (drained), 
minced  onion,  salt  and  caraway  seed,  simmer  a  while, 
then  dust  with  flour,  simmer  a  bit  and  then  add  wine 
vinegar  to  taste. 

486.    RUTABAGA. 

Bílá  řepa  neh  tiiHn. 
Cut  rutabaga  into  dice  and  boil  one  hour  in  beef 
soup.     Blend  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard  and  a  tea- 


VEGETABLES.  153 

spoon  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  drained  rutabaga, 
salt  and  simmer  until  tender.  Brown  flour  and  butter 
or  lard  togetlier,  add  the  strained  liquor,  mix  smooth, 
add  the  rutabaga  and  a  pinch  of  ground  ginger.  This 
is  served  with  boiled  pork. 

487.    STEWED  KOHLRABI. 

Dušené   kedluhny   čili   hruhve. 

Peel  and  slice  several  kohl-rabi.  Melt  a  tablespoon 
of  butter  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  add  the  kohl-rabi, 
a  little  beef  soup,  salt,  and  simmer  until  tender,  then 
thicken  witli  flour  and  butter  browned  together  and 
add  a  bit  of  ground  ginger.  The  young  leaves  of  kohl- 
rabi may  be  boiled  in  salted  water,  then  chopped,  stew- 
ed in  butter  and  soup,  thickened  with  browned  flour 
and  butter,  and  served  as  a  garnish  to  the  kohl-rabi. 

488.    STUFFED  KOHLRABI. 

Nadívané  kedlubny. 

Peel  young  kohl-rabi  of  even  size,  dig  a  cavity  in 
each  and  place  in  cold  water.  Prepare  a  stuffing  by 
chopping  or  grinding  a  piece  of  raw  veal  and  boiled 
pork  or  smoked  meat,  the  part  that  you  dug  out  of  the 
kohl-rabi,  (minced),  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of 
bread  crumbs,  a  pinch  of  ground  mace,  a  piece  of  butter 
and  salt.  Mix  together  and  stuff  the  kohl-rabi,  cover- 
ing each  with  the  top^  which  you  sliced  off  before 
digging  out  the  cavity.  Arrange  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  add  a  little  good  soup,  so  that  the  liquor  reaches 
halfway  up,  and  stew  in  the  oven.  When  done,  thicken 
the  liquor  and  serve  as  a  gravy  with  the  kohl-rabi. 

489.     CAULIFLOWER. 

Karfiol. 

This  may  be  prepared  in  either  of  these  two  ways: 
take  apart,  wash  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  salted 
water  and  boil  until  tender.  Then  drain,  add  a  piece 
of  good  butter,  sugar  to  taste  and  half  a  cup  of  cream. 


154  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Or  it  may  be  prepared  thus:  tliicken  a  small  amount  of 
liquor  in  which  it  has  boiled  with  flour  and  butter 
browned  together  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Cauliflower 
adds  a  very  good  flavor  to  soup. 

490.    CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Karfiol  se  s7netanou. 
Clean  and  take  apart,  leaving  a  bit  of  the  stalk  on 
each  piece,  wash  in  cold  water  and  boil  in  salted  water, 
not  too  tender,  and  then  drain.  Place  in  a  bowl  eight 
yolks  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with 
two  cups  of  cream,  put  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling- 
water,  and  beat  until  it  thickens.  Then  beat  until  cool. 
Arrange  the  boiled  cauliflower  on  a  buttered  dish  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Now  place  it  in  the  oven  on  a 
tripod  or  other  low  foundation  and  bake  an  hour,  dot- 
ting once  with  butter. 

491.    CAULIFLOWER  WITH  GRAVY. 

Karfiol  s  omáčJvon. 
Wash  the  cauliflower  after  separating  it,  and  boil 
in  salted  water.  When  done,  drain  and  pour-  over  it 
the  following  gravy:  brown  butter  and  flour  together, 
add  as  much  beef  soup  as  you  wish  to  have  gravy,  add 
minced  parsley  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  simmer  until 
smooth,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  a  bit 
of  the  water  in  which  the  cauliflower  has  boiled  and 
pour  over  same.  Or  you  may  serve  it  with  ordinary 
cream  sauce. 

492.    FRIED  CAULIFLOWER. 

-     Smažený   harfiol. 
Boil  the  cauliflower  whole,   then  slice,    dip    each 
slice  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  half 
butter  and  half  lard. 

493.    ASPARAGUS. 

Chřest  čili  špargl. 
Clean  the  asparagus  and  cut  away  the  thick,  pithy 
ends,  making  all  the  same  length.    Wash,  arrange  with 


VEGETABLES.  155 

the  tips  together,  tie  with  strong  thread  and  boil  in 
salted  water,  being  careful  not  to  overboil,  as  the  tender 
tips  would  break.  Then  drain,  take  off  the  thread, 
arrange  on  a  platter,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and 
melted  butter. 

494.    ASPARAGUS  WITH  BUTTER  GRAVY. 

Chřest  s  omacl'ou  máslovou. 
Boil  as  shown  in  the  preceding  recipe,  arrange  on 
a  dish  and  serve  with  the  following  gravy:  cream  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  add  four  yolks  and  cream  again, 
then  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
a  dash  of  salt,  and  cream  again,  then  add  two  cups  of 
good  soup  or  hot  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  it 
thickens. 

495.  ASPARAGUS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

direst  se  smrži. 
Cut  the  asparagus  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  dis- 
carding the  pithy  part,  then  boil  in  salted  water.  Blend 
butter  and  flour  together  but  do  not  brown,  add  soup 
to  make  a  gravy,  then  add  to  it  fresh  sliced  mushrooms 
and  simmer  a  1)11.  Arrange  the  asparagus  on  a  dish, 
pour  the  gravy  over  it  and  serve. 

496.    SPINACH  WITH  MEAT  GRAVY. 

Špenát  V  masité  omáčce. 
Wash  the  spinach  and  parboil  in  salted  water, 
drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  drain  again  and  chop 
fine.  Brown  butter  and  flour,  add  the  spinach,  simmer- 
ing slowly,  adding  from  time  to  time  a  bit  of  soup, 
also  a  pinch  of  mace,  salt  and  pepper.  When  done,  it 
should  be  rather  thick. 

497.    SPINACH  WITH  NOODLES. 

špenát  s  flíčliy. 
Make  thick  noodles,  boil  in  salted  water  and  drain. 
Now  place  in  a  dish  a  layer  of  the  noodles  and  then  a 
layer  of  spinach  prepared  as  shown  in  the    preceding 


156  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

recipe,  the  last  layer  being  spinach.    Sprinkle  well  with 
bread  crumbs  and  melted  butter  and  serve. 

498.    SPINACH  WITH  EGGS. 

Špenát  s  vejci. 
Pick  over  and  wash  a  fourth  of  a  peck  of  young, 
crisp  spinach  (this  will  be  enough  for  six  people). 
Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  boil  about  ten 
minutes,  then  drain.  Then  chop  fine  in  a  wooden  bowl, 
put  it  back  in  the  pan,  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  beef 
soup.  You  may  use  hot  water,  but  soup  is  better.  Add 
salt  to  taste  and  simmer  about  twenty  minutes.  Blend 
a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  thicken 
the  spinach  with  this,  add  two  eggs,  pepper,  stir  and 
simmer  a  bit  longer.    Nutmeg  may  also  be  added. 

499.    SPINACH  WITH  SOUR  CREAM. 

Špenát  s  kyselou  omáčkou. 
Pick  over  and  wash  the  spinach,  place  in  hot  salted 
water  and  boil  until  tender,  then  drain,  cut  up  with  a 
knife,  add  half  a  cup  of  sour  cream  mixed  with  three 
or  four  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  sugar  to  taste.  It 
may  be  garnished  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs, 

500.    SPINACH  WITH  CREAM. 

Špenát  se  sladkou  omáčkou. 
Wash  young  crisp  spinach,  place  in  boiling  water 
and  boil  about  five  minutes.  Then  drain,  place  in  a 
chopping  bowl  with  the  green  tops  of  young  onions 
and  mince  fine.  Then  place  in  the  pan,  adding  about  a 
cup  of  beef  soup  or  hot  water.  Cover  and  simmer  until 
thick.  Then  add  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  with  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  rolled  crackers  and 
half  a  cup  of  cream  (for  each  cupful  of  spinach). 

501.    ENDIVE. 

Štěrhák. 
Take  eiglit  or  ten    endives  which    must  be    sound 
inside,  pick  off  the  outer  green  leaves,  wash  the  yellow 


VEGETABLES.  157 

leaves  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  drain  or  dry  and 
boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  again,  cool  and 
mince  fine.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter,  add  the  minced 
endive  and  simmer  until  thick,  then  add  two  cups  of 
cream,  salt,  sugar  to  taste  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Simmer 
fifteen  minutes,  add  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  butter  and 
serve. 

502.    FRIED    EGGPLANT    No.    1. 

Smažená  granátová  dýně. 

Peel  the  eggplant,  slice  half  an  inch  thick  and 
soak  it  an  hour  in  salted  water.  Dry,  dip  each  slice  in 
beaten  Q^g,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry 
in  hot  fat  until  crisp  on  the  surface  and  tender  inside. 

503.    FRIED  EGGPLANT  No.  2. 

Smažená  granátová  dýně  na  jiný  způsob. 

Boil  until  tender,  then  halve  and  scrape  out  the 
pulp.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  take  up  by  spoon- 
ful, dip  each  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  hot  fat. 

504.    BAKED  EGGPLANT. 

Pečená  granátová  dýně. 

Boil  until  tender,  cut  in  half,  take  out  the  pulp, 
mash  same  and  to  each  cupful  add  a  tablespoon  of 
cracker  crumbs,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per, mix  well  and  place  in  a  baking  dish.  Beat  an 
egg,  spread  half  of  it  over  -the  eggplant,  dust  thickly 
with  cracker  crumbs,  spread  these  with  the  remaining 
half,  dust  again  with  crumbs,  and  bake  a  golden  brown. 

505.     STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Dušená  rajsl'a  jablíčka. 

Place  nice  ripe  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  a 
moment  or  two,  peel,  cut  in  halves.  Place  in  a  sauce- 
pan a  piece  of  good  butter,  add  the  tomatoes,  salt,  pej)- 
per  and  sugar  to  taste  and  sinnner  about  half  an  hour. 
Mix  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream, 


158  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

acid  t 
done. 


add  to  the  tomatoes  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  it  is 


506.    FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Smaženíi  rajsl'a  jablicha. 
Peel  small  tomatoes  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
recipe,  cut  in  thick  slices,  salt,  pepper,  sprinkle  with 
lemon  juice,  dip  each  slice  in  a  thin  batter  of  butter, 
eggs  and  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  You  may  add 
minced  parsley  to  the  eggs.  Or  you  may  dip  the  toma- 
toes in  beaten  eggs  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  them. 

507.    STUFFED    TOMATOES    No.    1. 

Nadívaná  rajshá  jahličlca. 
Cut  off  the  tops  to  form  a  lid  or  cover.  Take  out 
the  seeds  and  pulp,  mix  it  with  fried  bread  crumbs, 
minced  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  stuff  the  tomatoes 
with  this,  then  cover  eacli  with  the  lid  and  arrange  in 
a  buttered  pan  or  baking  dish,  which  you  have 
sprinkled  over  with  bread  crumbs.  Dot  with  butter, 
cover  with  thick  paper  and  bake  20  or  25  minutes  in 
a  medium  oven. 

508.    STUFFED  TOMATOES  No.  2. 

Nadívaná  rajsM  jablíčka  na  jiný  způsob. 
Prepare  the  tomatoes  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
recipe.  Mince  fine  left-over  meat  or  poultry,  add  a 
minced  fried  onion,  two  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  salt 
and  pepper  and  simmer  a  moment  or  two,  then  add  a 
beaten  yolk,  mix  well  and  stuff  the  tomatoes  with  the 
mixture.  Arrange  them  in  a  buttered  baking  pan 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  witli  butter  and  bake. 

509.    TOMATOES  ON  TOAST. 

Bajshá  jablíčka  na  topinkách. 
Scald,  peel  and  stew  four  tomatoes  (medium-sized) 
and  two  small  onions  minced,  about  forty-five  minutes. 
Drain,  add  salt  and  pepper,  a  small  cup  of  sweet  milk 
or  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  and  stir  thoroughly.  Pour 
over  toast  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES.  159 

510.    STRING  BEANS.  . 

Fazolové  luslxij. 
Wasli  the  beans,  cut  off  the  ends  and  string  them, 
cut  each  into  three  or  four  pieces    and  boil    in  salted 
water.      Drain,    pour    melted    butter    over    them    and 
sprinkle  with  fried  bread  crumbs. 

511.  STRING  BEANS  WITH  SOUR  GRAVY. 

Fazolové  lusky  na  kyselo. 
Prepare  the  beans  as  directed  in  the  foregoing- 
recipe  and  boil  in  salted  water  to  which  you  have 
added  a  piece  of  baking  soda,  the  size  of  a  pea.  When 
the  beans  are  tender,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour,  a  teaspoon  or  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
browned  together,  add  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and 
serve. 

512.  STRING  BEANS  WITH  SOUR  CREAM 

GRAVY. 

Fazolové  lusky  s  kyselou  smetanou. 

Cook  the  beans  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe 
and  when  they  are  tender,  add  a  cujd  of  sour  cream 
thickened  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  two  tablespoons 
of  chopped  fresh  dill,  and  simmer  a  while. 

513.    LIMA  BEANS. 

Velké  máslové  fazole-. 
Shell  a  pint  of  lima  beans  and  boil  until  tender  in 
salted  water.     Drain,  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
simmer  a  bit  and  serve. 

514.    GREEN  BEANS. 

Mladé  fazole. 
Shell  beans  that  are  very  young,  so  that  they 
mash  between  the  fingers.  Melt  a  piece  of  fresh  butter 
with  half  a  teaspoon  or  more  of  sugar,  add  the  beans, 
cover,  and  simmer.  In  about  twenty  minutes  thicken 
with  flour,  add  hot  cream  and  beef  soup.   Simmer  until 


160  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

the  liquor  lias  been  absorbed,  as  beans  prepared  this 
way  must  not  be  too  liquid.  To  two  cups  of  beans 
three  tablespoons  of  cream  and  one  of  souj)  will  be 
enough. 

515.  GREEN  PEAS. 
Zelený  hrášeh. 

Pour  half  a  cup  of  water  over  a  quart  of  shelled 
peas,  add  salt  and  sugar  and  boil  until  tender,  or  about 
half  an  hour,  if  the  peas  are  really  young.  If  the  water 
evaporates,  add  a  little  at  the  time.  When  tender,  cream 
half  a  tablespoon  of  good  butter  with  half  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  add  to  the  peas.  When  it  bubbles,  add  a 
small  cup  of  cream  or  good  milk,  a  pinch  of  pepper, 
and   serve. 

516.  DRIED  PEAS. 

Hrách. 
Pick  over,  wash  in  cold  water  and  soak  in  same 
over  night.  Dried  peas  swell  to  once  their  size  while 
boiling,  so  if  you  put  two  cups  of  dried  peas  to  boil, 
you  will  need  a  quart  pan.  In  the  morning  drain  off 
the  water  in  which  the  peas  have  been  soaked,  and 
cover  with  fresh  water.  Soft  water  is  best;  if  you  do 
not  have  this  add  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  Cover  and 
as  the  water  evaporates  add  hot  water,  and  when  the 
peas  are  nearly  done  add  salt.  Then  drain,  place  the 
peas  in  a  dish,  pour  over  them  goose  or  pork  fat, 
garnish  with  boiled  smoked  meat  and  serve  with  sauer- 
kraut or  dill  pickles. 

517.    PEAS  WITH  BARLEY. 

Hrách  s  I'roupami  čili  svarha. 
Cook  the  peas  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe 
and  at  the  same  time  boil  barley,  seasoned  with  salt  and 
caraway  seed.  When  both  are  done,  drain  the  peas, 
put  a  layer  of  each  alternately  in  a  baking  dish,  allow 
the  mixture  to  simmer  á  while,  then  turn  it  into  a  dish, 
pour  over  it  melted  butter  or  lard,  and  garnish  with 
wienies  or  liver  sausage. 


VEGETABLES.  161 

518.    LENTILS. 

Čočka. 
Lentils  are  prepared  the  same  as  peas. 

519.    LENTILS  WITH  SOUR  GRAVY. 

Cochi  s  I'ljselou  omáčkou. 
Pick  over  and  wash  two  cups  of  lentils,  cover 
with  soft  water  and  boil  forty-five  minutes,  then  drain 
and  add  salt.  Brown  a  grated  onion  in  lard,  add  it  to 
the  lentils,  also  a  bit  of  powdered  thyme,  thicken  with 
flonr  and  butter  browned  together,  add  vinegar  and 
water  to  taste,  and  simmer  until  done. 

520.    MUSHROOMS  WITH  EGGS. 

Ilouhij  s  vejci. 
Clean,  wash  and  slice  fresh  mushrooms,  simmer 
with  butter,  salt  and  caraway  seed.  When  the  liquor 
has  evaporated,  add  butter,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and 
minced  parsley  ,and  several  beaten  eggs.  Scramble 
together,  and  serve. 

521.    STEWED    MUSHROOMS    No.    1. 

Dušené  houby. 
Clean  and  peel  fresh  mushrooms,  cut  the  stems  off, 
not  entirely,  wash  in  cold  water,  slice  and  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  butter,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  minced 
onion,  salt  and  several  tablespoons  of  good  beef  soup. 
Stew  about  fifteen  minutes.  You  may  add  a  bit  of 
white  wine  and  thicken  with  yolk  and  cream  beaten 
together. 

522.    STEWED  MUSHROOMS   No.  2. 

Dušené    liouhy   na  jinii   zpiisoh. 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  fresh  mushrooms,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  minced  parsley, 
a  bit  of  caraway  seed  and  salt,  and  stew  about  forty- 
five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  You  may  add  a  bit 
of  white  wine  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  blend- 
ed together.     Or  you  may  add  a  bit  of  wine    vinegar 

Cook  Book  11 


162  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

and  sour  cream,  and  simmer  a  while  longer.  If  you 
wish,  you  may  bake  them  when  done,  that  is:  place  the 
stewed  mushrooms  in  a  buttered  baking'  dish,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter 
and  bake  until  brown. 

523.    FRIED  MUSHROOMS. 

Smažené  houhy. 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  thickly  large  mushrooms, 
salt,  pepper  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard.  You  may 
add  a  bit  of  minced  parsley  or  powdered  caraway  seed 
to  the  egg, ' 

524.  STUFFED  MUSHROOMS. 

Nadívané  žampiony. 

Peel  and  stem  large  mushrooms,  'scrape  a  cavity 
in  each  and  place  in  water  to  which,  you  have  added 
lemon  juice.  Chop  the  stems  fine  with  parsley,  add  a 
pinch  of  caraway  seed  and  simmer  in  butter,  then  add 
a  tablespoon  of  fried  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  mace  to 
taste,  two  beaten  yolks,  mix  together  and  fill  the 
scooped  mushrooms  with  this  stuffing,  arrange  in  a 
buttered  shallow  pan  and  bake  until  the  stuffing 
browns. 

525.  MORELS   (MUSHROOMS). 

Use  only  fresh  morels,  the  dried  mushrooms  being 
indigestible  and  used  only  for  flavoring.  Wash  in 
several  tepid  waters,  being  careful  that  no  sand 
remains,  slice,  place  in  a  saucepan  with  butter,  minced 
onion,  minced  parsley,  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  simmer 
until  done.  Blend  butter  and  flour  together,  thin  with 
beef  soup,  add  this  to  the  mushrooms  and  simmer  a  bit 
longer.    Finally  add  lemon  juice  to  taste  and  serve  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  163 

526.    SWEET  CORN  ON  COB. 

Kukuřičné  Masy. 
Husk  young  sweet  corn,  clean  off  all  the  silk,  but 
leave  the  inside  husks.  Place  in  boiling  salted  water, 
to  which  you  may  add  a  bit  of  sugar.  Boil  until  tender, 
drain,  take  off  the  remaining  husks  and  serve  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

527.    STEWED  GREEN  CORN. 

Čerstvá  kul'tmce  dušená. 
Corn  that  has  lost  its  milkiness  is  prepared  thus: 
cut  or  scrape  the  kernels  of  six  ears,  add  a  cup  of  milk 
and  stew  about  ten  minutes.  Cream  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  with  one  of  flour,  add  it  to  the  corn,  also  salt, 
pepper  and  a  júnch  of  sugar,  and  when  it  begins  to 
bubble,  serve.    Canned  corn  may  be  prepared  this  way. 

528.    FRIED   GREEN   CORN. 

Čerstvá  huhuHce  smažená. 
Scrape  or  cut  off  the  kernels.    Heat  butter  or  lard 
and  when  smoking  hot,  add  the  kernels,  salt  and  pepper, 
cover  and  fry    fifteen    minutes,    stirring    occasionally. 
Left-over  boiled  ears  may  be  used  this  way. 

529.    CORN    CUSTARD. 

Čerstvá  kukuřice  s  vejci. 
Cut  or  scrape  off  the  kernels  of  six  ears  of    corn, 
add  a  cup  of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt. 
Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  medium  oven. 

530.    CARROTS. 

Mrkev. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  cut  into  small  strips. 
Heat  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  carrots,  minced 
parsley,  a  bit  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  simmer  the 
carrots  in  their  juice,  stirring  occasionally.  When 
nearly  done,  add  a  little  beef  souj)  and  when  entirely 
done,  dust  with  flour  and  a  pinch  of  paprika. 


164  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

531.  CARROTS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

M7'l'ev  se  zeleným  hráškem. 
Scrape  and  wash  carrots,  cut  into  fine  strips  and 
wash  in  cold  water.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  a  bit  of  sugar  and  simmer  the  carrots  in  this, 
adding  salt  when  you  put  them  in  the  pan,  and  then 
from  time  to  time  hot  water  or  soup.  When  nearly 
done,  dust  with  flour,  add  soup  and  cream,  a  pinch  of 
mace  and  simmer  a  while  longer.  Place  in  another 
saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  quart  of  young  green 
peas,  add  a  bit  of  sugar  and  simmer  until  tender,  then 
add  minced  parsley,  dust  with  flour,  salt,  add  beef 
soup  and  simmer.  When  ready  to  serve,  place  the 
peas  in  the  center  of  the  dish  *or  platter  and  surround 
with  the  carrots. 

532.  STEWED    SALSIFY. 

Dušené  salsify. 
Scrape  the  roots. and  place  in  cold  water,  in  order 
that  they  do  not  become  discolored.  When  you  have 
the  desired  quantity  scraped,  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick,  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  tender.  When 
done,  drain,  cover  with  milk,  salt  and  boil  a  while. 
Thicken  with  flour  and  butter  blended  together,  and 
serve.     You  may  serve  this  on  toast  also. 

533.  BREADED   SALSIFY. 

Obalované  salsify. 
Scrape  the  roots,  cut  lengthwise  and  boil  until 
tender.  Dry  with  a  napkin,  dip  each  piece  in  the 
following:  mix  six  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter,  salt  and  enough  water  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  and  add  two  beaten  whites  to  it.  Fry 
brown  in  hot  fat. 

534.    FRIED   SALSIFY. 

S^niažené  salsify. 
Scrape   and  wash    the  roots,   cut    lengthwise,   and 
fry  in  butter,  adding  salt  and  pepper  of  course. 


VEGETABLES.  165 

535.    STEWED    PARSNIPS. 

Dušeníj  pašiinák. 

Scrape  and  wash,  cut  into  strips  or  slices  and 
place  in  boiling  water.  When  tender,  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  piece  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  minced 
parsley,  and  stew,  stirring  occasionally.  When  done, 
place  in  a  hot  dish,  cover  with  sauce  made  of  milk 
thickened  with  a  beaten  Qgg  or  flour  and  butter  blend- 
ed together. 

536.    FRIED   PARSNIPS. 

Smažen  fi  past  in  cil'. 

Scrape,  wash  and  boil  until  tender.  Cut  length- 
wise and  fry  in  hot  bacon  fat. 

537.    MASHED    PARSNIPS. 

Boz  m  achaný  past  in  á  k. 

Scrape,  wash  and  boil  the  parsnips,  then  press 
through  a  sieve,,  add  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter  and 
cream,  mix  thoroughly,  heat  and  serve. 

538.   FRIED    ONION. 

Smažená  cibule. 

Dice  bacon  and  fry  it.    When  brown,  take  out  the 

cracklings   and  in  the  hot  fat  put   four  medium-sized 

onions    sliced    very    thin,    cover    and    stew    about    15 

minutes,  stirring  occasionally.   Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

539.    STEWED    ONION. 

Dušená  cibule. 
Peel  green  onions  and  soak  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour.  Drain  and  place  in  cold  water,  boil  three  minutes 
after  coming  to  the  boiling  point,  then  drain,  add 
fresh  water  and  repeat,  draining  again  after  boiling 
three  minutes.  Then  add  fresh  liot  water  and  boil 
until  tender.  AVIien  done,  drain  and  cover  with  milk, 
add  salt  and  pepper,  blend  a  tablesiiooii  of  butter  with 
the  same  amount  of  flour  and  thicken  with  this. 


166  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

540.    PUMPKIN. 

Turhj  čili  tyJcve. 
Peel  and  take  out  the  seeds,  cut  into  cubes  or 
strips,  dust  with  salt,  and  allow  to  stand  thus  fifteen 
minutes.  Then  drain,  dry  with  a  napkin,  dip  in  flour 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

541.    SQUASH. 

Díjné. 

Peel  and  take  out  the  seeds,  cut  into  cubes  and  boil 
in  salted  water.  Then  drain,  place  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  piece  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  simmer.  You  may 
press  the  boiled  squash  through  a  sieve,  add  sugar, 
butter  and  cream,  mix  thoroughly,  place  in  a  buttered 
pan,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Or  you  may  make  small  oblong 
cakes  of  this  mixture  and  fry  them  in  hot  fat. 

542.  BOILED   CABBAGE   No.    1. 

Vařené  zelí  z  hlávek. 

Pick  off  the  outer  leaves,  cut  the  head  into  quarters, 
cut  out  the  stalk,  and  mince  the  cabbage  fine  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Then  press  down  in  a  pan,  add  water, 
vinegar,  salt,  caraway  seed  and  simmer.  When  nearly 
done,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  blended  together  and 
simmer  until  done.  If  it  should  be  too  thick,  add  beef 
soup  and  vinegar  to  taste.  If  too  sour,  add  sugar  to 
taste.  Before  serving  add  melted  butter  or  the  melted 
fat  of  pork  roast,  goose,  duck,  etc. 

543.  BOILED    CABBAGE   No.  2. 

Vařené  ^clí  z  lilável:  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Piek  off  the  outer  leaves,  cut  in  quarters,  cut  out 
the  stalk,  and  soak  fifteen  minutes  in  cold  water,  then 
drain  and  boil  in  salted  water.  When  l)oiling  about 
fi^'e  minutes,  drain  and  add  fresh  hot  water.  When 
the  cabbage  is  tender  and  the  water  evaporated,  thicken 


VEGETABLES.  167 

with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
jjlended  together,  add  a  pinch  of  sugar  and  pejjper, 
and  serve. 

544.    STEWED   CABBAGE. 

Dušené  zelí  z  hlávlnj. 

Pick  over,  quarter,  cut  out  the  stalk  and  mince  a 
head  of  cabbage.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  drain, 
squeeze  dry.  Place  in  a  saucej)an  a  piece  of  butter  or 
lard,  a  minced  onion,  salt  and  simmer,  then  add  the 
cabbage  and  stew,  stirring  frequently.  When  nearly 
done,  dust  with  flour,  and  stew  brown.  Finally  add 
vinegar  diluted  with  water  or  soup  and  sugar  to  taste, 
pepper  and  caraway  seed,  and  stew  until  done. 

545.    SOUR  CABBAGE. 

llldvl'a  na  I'ljselo. 
Pick  over,  quarter,  cut  out  the  stalk  and  mince 
fine  a  head  of  cabbage,  place  it  in  boiling  water  and 
parboil.  Then  drain,  as  the  first  water  is  bitter,  especi- 
ally if  the  cabbage  is  not  strictly  fresh.  In  the  mean- 
time mince  and  fry  two  large  onions.  Place  the  drained 
cabbage  in  a  granite  or  enameled  pan,  add  the  onion, 
salt,  a  pinch  of  caraway  seed,  two  tablespoons  of  lard, 
and  stew  slowly.  If  the  liquor  evaporates,  hot  water 
must  be  added  from  time  to  time.  When  the  cabbage 
has  been  stewing  about  half  an  hour,  peel  and  grate 
a  raw  potato,  mix  with  a  cup  of  water,  add  to  the  cab- 
bage, stirring  it  in  thoroughly.  Blend  a  tablespoon  of 
lard  with  the  same  amount  of  flour,  add  to  the  cabbage 
with  vinegar  to  taste.  You  may  add  the  fat  from  roast 
goose  or  duck. 

546.    SOURKRAUT   No.    1. 

Kysané  zelí. 

Place  a  quart  of    kraut  in  a  pan,    add  a  minced 

onion  and  a  pinch  of    sugar.     Cover  and  stew  half  an 

hour.     Place  a    tablespoon    of  lard    and  half  a    small 

onion  minced   in   another  pan  and  when   the   onion  is 


168  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

beginning  to  brown,  add  tlie  kraut.  Mix  smooth  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  with  cold  water,  add  to  the  kraut 
and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  it  is  done.  You  may 
add  a  tablespoon  of  hot  fat  from  roast  pork  or  duck. 

547.    SOURKRAUT    No.    2. 

Kysané  zeli  na  jiný  zpiisoh. 
Place  in  a  pan  a  minced  onion  and  a  tablespoon 
of  lard.  When  the  onion  is  beginning  to  brown,  add 
the  kraut  and  stew  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  If  it 
become  too  dry,-  add  hot  water.  Then  thicken  with 
flour,  simmer  a  bit  longer  and  serve. 

548.    KALE. 

Kapusta. 
Pick  off  the  outer  leaves,  quarter,  wash  in  cold 
water,  cover  with  boiling  water  a  few  moments,  then 
drain.  Place  a  piece  of  butter  or  lard  in  a  stewpan,  add 
the  parboiled  kale,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste  and  sim- 
mer until  tender.  Blend  butter  and  flour  together, 
add  hot  water  or  souj),  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  ginger, 
a  clove  or  two  of  garlic  mashed  to  a  paste,  and  thicken 
the  kale  with  this. 

549.    HASHED    KALE. 

Fašírovaná  l:apusta. 
Pick  off  the  tender  leaves,  boil  in  salted  water 
until  very  tender,  then  place  in  cold  water  for  a 
moment,  drain  and  mince.  Place  a  piece  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  a  minced  onion,  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and 
when  it  begins  to  brown,  add  beef  soup  or  the  liquor 
from  a  roast,  a  bit  of  sugar,  j^epper,  salt  and  ginger, 
add  the  minced  kale  and  simmer  a  bit. 

550.    FRIED    CUCUMBERS. 

Snmžené  ol-urhy. 
Peel  and  slice  thick,  cutting  out  the  pulp  containing 
seeds.  Salt  and  allow  to  stand  thus  fifteen  minutes, 
then  drain,  dry,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Or 
you  may  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs 
and  fry. 


SALADS.  169 

Salads. — Saláty. 

551.    LETTUCE   SALAD. 

Hlávkový  salát. 

Pick  off  the  outer  leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce, 
wash  thoroughly,  cut  in  quarters,  salt  and  arrange  on 
plates.  Pour  vinegar  diluted  with  water  and  olive  oil 
and  seasoned  with  paprika  or  pepper  on  each  portion. 

552.  LETTUCE   SALAD  WITH  BOILED   EGGS. 

Illavl'ovy  salát,  s  vejci. 
Pick  over,  quarter  and  wash  carefully,  drain. 
Cream  two  liard-boiled  yolks  with  three  tablespoons  of 
good  fresh  melted  butter,  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  few 
tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar,  mix  well,  pour  over  the 
lettuce,  and  surround  with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
quarters  or  slices. 

553.  LETTUCE  SALAD  WITH  SOUR  CREAM. 

Hlávkový  salát  s  kyselou  smetanou. 
Pick  over,  quarter  and  wash  head  lettuce.  Add 
three  tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar  to  a  pint  of  thick 
sour  cream,  a  dash  of  salt,  pepper,  minced  chives,  mix 
thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater,  pour  over  the  lettuce 
and  serve. 

554.  LETTUCE  SALAD  WITH  BACON. 

Hlávkový  salát  se  špekem. 

Pick  over,  wash  and    drain  the  lettuce    and  add 

salt.     Dilute  vinegar  with    water,  add  sugar    to  taste 

and  pour  over  the  lettuce.     In  the  meantime  fry  diced 

bacon  and  when  done,  pour  over  the  lettuce  and  serve. 

555.    CUCUMBER   SALAD. 

Salát   okurkový. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  carefully  and  slice    thin,  add 

salt,  vinegar  and  good  thick  cream,  stirring  well  and 

finally  adding  pepper.     Some  cooks  think  it  necessary 

to  salt  the  sliced  cucumbers,  allow  them  to  stand  thus 


170  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

and  tlien  drain  them,  as  they  consider  the  juice  indi- 
gestible. ^J^he  contrary  is  tnie,  tliey  are  made  indi- 
gesti))le  l)y  this  method. 

556.  POTATO   SALAD   No.    1. 

Bramlorovfj  salát. 
Boil,  peel  and  cool  the  potatoes.  When  quite  cold, 
cut  in  thin  slices,  add  finely  minced  onion,  salt  and 
pepper,  stir  together,  pour  over  them  fried  diced  bacon 
and  vinegar  diluted  with  water,  adding  salt  and  sugar 
to  taste.  Stir  with  a  knife,  arrange  in  a  dish,  cover 
with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  and  serve. 

557.  POTATO    SALAD   No.   2. 

Bramhoivvij  salát  na  jiný  způsob. 
Boil,  peel  and  cool  potatoes;  when  cold,  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Arrange  ii\  a  dish,  add  salt,  pepper,  minced 
onion  and  minced  celery,  pour  olive  oil  or  melted  butter 
and  vinegar  over  all,  and  stir  carefully.  You  may  also 
add  thinly  sliced  sour  apples. 

558.  POTATO  SALAD  WITH  HERRING. 

Bramboroví]  salát  se  slanečkem. 
Wash,  skin  and  halve  two  herrings,  bone  and  cut 
into  dice.  Stir  together  sliced  potatoes  with  diced 
apples  and  minced  onion,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  cover 
with  the  diced  herrings.  Add  vinegar,  water  and  oil, 
mixed  to  taste. 

559.  POTATO  SALAD  WITH  SOUR  CREAM. 

Bramhorovt)  salát  s  hyselou  smetanou. 

Boil,  peel  and  cool  potatoes,  then  slice  them.  Stir 
into  them  minced  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over 
all  the  following  sauce :  boil  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
a  tablespoon  of  water  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Beat 
three  yolks  with  two  cups  of  thick  sour  cream  and  add 
to  the  foregoing  while  it  is  boiling.  When  it  begins 
to  bubble,  take  off  the  stove  and  cool. 


SALADS.  171 

560.  COLD    SLAW   No.    1.  ' 

Salát  Ze  zelné  hlávky. 
Eed  cabbage  is  nice  for  this,  when  it  may  be  had. 
Pick  over,  cut  out  the  stalk,  mince  fine,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  drain  dry  and  add  minced  onion  if  yon 
wish.  Boil  together  vinegar,  butter  and  salt,  add 
to  the  cabbage  and  stew  quickly  ,in  a  covered  pan 
stirring  frequently.  Then  cool,  season  with  pepper 
and  serve.  Ordinary  cold  slaw  is  made  thus:  mix 
minced  onion,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  with  the  raw 
minced  cabbage. 

561.  COLD   SLAW   No.    2. 

Salát  ze  zelné  hlávky  na  jiný  způsob. 

Piek  over,  quarter,  cut  out  the  stalk  and  mince  a 
head  of  cabbage.  Fry  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  diced 
bacon  with  a  minced  onion,  add  to  it  a  i3Ínt  of  wine 
vinegar,  add  the  cabbage,  salt,  and  simmer  about  ten 
minutes,  then  dust  with  pepper  and  serve. 

562.  COLD  SLAW  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Salát  ze  zelné  hlávky  se  sladkou  omáčkou. 
Mince  the  cabbage,  place  it  in  a  wooden  bowl,  add 
salt,  half  a  minced  onion,  and  pound  with  a  wooden 
masher  five  minutes.  Then  i)lace  in  a  dish  and  pour 
over  it  the  following  sauce:  heat  two  tablespoons  of 
good  butter;  wlien  quite  hot  add  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar 
and  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  a  small  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  stirring  constantly,  so  that  it  does  not  curdle, 
and  finally  a  dash  of  pepper. 

563.  COLD  SLAW  WITH  SOUR  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Salát  ze  zelné  lilávky  s  kyselou  smetanou. 
]\Iince  the  cabbage.  Heat  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
add  the  cabbage,  three  tablespoons  of  boiling  Avater, 
cover  and  allow  to  stand  on  the  edge  of  the  stove  fif- 
teen minutes,  (it  must  not  boil).  Then  beat  one  egg, 
add  it  to  the  slaw,  also  half  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 


172  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

salt  and  pepper  and  finally  half  a  cup  of  sour  cream. 
Serve  cold. 

564.   ENDIVE    SALAD. 

Salát  ze  štěrháku. 
Endive  is  best  in  autumn.  Pick  off  the  green 
leaves,  wash  the  yellow  ones  in  cold  water  and  drain 
well,  then  place  in  a  dish,  dust  with  sugar.  Mix  several 
tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar  with  olive  oil  and  salt, 
pour  over  the  endive,  mix  thoroughly  and  put  in  a 
salad  bowl. 

565.    CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

Salát  z  karfiolu. 

Take  apart  and  stew  the  cauliflower  in  salted 
water  and  a  piece  of  butter,  so  that  the  pieces  are  tend- 
er but  whole.  When  cold,  drain  thoroughly  on  a  nap- 
kin, then  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl.  Press  through  a 
sieve  four  hard-boiled  yolks,  mix  with  four  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil,  five  tablespons  of  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper  or  paprika,  stir  well  and  pour  over  the  cauli- 
flower. 

566.    CELERY   ROOT   SALAD. 

Salát  celerový. 

Scrape,  wash  and  soak  the  Toots  in  cold  water, 
then  boil  in  salted  water,  place  again  in  cold  water, 
scrape  thoroughly  and  slice.  Stand  the  tops  in  the 
center  of  the  salad  bowl,  arrange  the  sliced  roots 
around  them,  garnish  these  with  cress;  mix  together 
wine  vinegar,  olive  oil,  salt  and  paprika  or  pepper, 
and  pour  over  all. 

567.  CELERY  SALAD  WITH  APPLES. 

Celerový  salát  s  jahll'jj. 
Chop    fine    in  a    wooden    bowl    equal    amounts  of 
celery  and  tart  apples,  each  separately.     Mix  together 
and  pour  mayonnaise  sauce  ovei   all. 


SALADS.  173 

568.  CELERY  SALAD. 

Salát  zc  stonků  naťového  celeru. 
Choose  the  nice  and  crisp  stalks.  Wash,  soak  a 
bit  in  cold  water,  then  cut  into  pieces  one  and  a  half 
inches  long,  and  cut  these  into  fine  strips.  Wash  again, 
dry,  dust  with  salt,  pepper,  dry  mustard,  pour  over 
them  vinegar  and  olive  oil,  shake  together,  and  ar- 
range on  lettuce  leaves.  You  may  use  the  regular 
mayonnaise  in  place  of  the  French  dressing. 

569.   ASPARAGUS    SALAD. 

Šparglový  salát. 
Pick  over  the  asparagus,  choosing  the  crisp  tips, 
boil  in  salted  water,  drain  dry,  arrange  in  a  bowl,  pour 
over  it  vinegar,  olive  oil  and  paprika  or  pepper.     You 
may  garnish  this  with  boiled  cauliflower. 

570.   WATER    CRESS   SALAD. 

Řeřichoví/  salát. 
Pick  the  cress  over,  wash  and  serve  with  French 
dressing.     You  may  garnish  with    sliced  tart    apples, 
endive  or  cabbage. 

571.    BEET   SALAD. 

Salát  z  červené  řepy. 
Wash  and  boil  red  beets,  peeland  slice  them.  Wash 
and  scrape  horseradish  roots,  and  slice  them.  Place  in 
a  stone  jar  a  layer  of  beets,  garnish  with  the  sliced 
horseradish,  sprinkle  with  a  bit  of  anise  seed  or  fennel 
and  a  bit  of  salt.  Continue  until  all  is  used,  then  pour 
wine  vinegar  over  all  and  let  it  stand  thus  twenty- 
four  hours.  You  may  use  cloves  in  place  of  anise  or 
fennel  seed.     Serve  with  the  liquor. 

572.    TOMATO    SALAD   No.    1. 

Salát  z  rajshých  jahlíčel'. 
Scald,  peel  and  slice  nice  tomatoes,  arrange  in  a 
bowl,  add  a  minced  onion,  salt  and  pepper,    and  pour 
over  all  vinegar  and  water,  sweetened  to  taste. 


174  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

573.  TOMATO   SALAD   No.   2. 

Salát  z  rajshijch  jahličeJc  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Slice  twelve  tomatoes  and  arrange  in  a  bowl.  Mix 
smooth  four  hard-boiled  yolks,  add  one  raw  yolk,  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  of  paprika,  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two 
tablespoons  of  mustard  and  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix 
thoroughly,  pour  over  the  tomatoes  and  serve  cold. 

574.  CHICKEN  SALAD   No.   1. 

Salát  z  kuřat. 
Dice  the  meat  of  one  boiled  chicken,  mince  one 
small  head  of  cabbage  and  an  equal  amount  of  celery 
stalks,  each  separately.  Hardboil  twelve  eggs,  chop 
the  whites  fine  and  cream  the  yolks  smooth  with  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a 
tablespoon  of  mustard,  add  a  cup  of  wine  vinegar  and 
mix  together.  Mix  the  three  first  named  ingredients, 
pour  the  sauce  over  all  and  serve. 

575.  CHICKEN   SALAD   No.  2. 

Salát  z  kuřat  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Dice  the  meat  of  one  boiled  chicken,  mix  with  the 
same  amount  of  chopped  celery  stalks  and  three  table- 
spoons of  mayonnaise  sauce,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  pour  over  it  mayonnaise,  garnish  with  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  quarters,  olives,  or  capers.  You  may  use 
finely  chopped  pickles  in  place  of  the  celery,  or  crisp 
lettuce .  leaves.  You  may  also  use  French  dressing, 
in  place  of  the  mayonnaise.  Salads  of  sweetbreads, 
goose  liver  and  other  meats  may  be  prepared  in  this 
manner. 

576.  LOBSTER,  CRAB  OR  FISH  SALAD. 

Salát  z  humriij,  rahů  a  ryb. 
These    are    prepared  the    same  as    chicken    salad. 
Other  fish  salads  are    prepared  by    mixing  the    diced 
meat  with  anchovies  or  capers,  placing  a  layer  of  sliced 


SALADS.  175 

potatoes  and  sliced  red  beets  over  a  layer  of  the  meat, 
then  pouring  over  all  the  desired  dressing. 

577.    SALMON   SALAD. 

Salát  z  lososa. 
Use  the  contents  of  a  pound  can  of  salmon,  take 
out  the  bones  and  skin,  chop  fine.  Chop  an  equal 
amount  of  cabbage.  Mix  smooth  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Mix  together  and  pour  over 
the  salmon  mixed  with  the  cabbage. 

578.    BOHEMIAN   SALAD. 

Český  salát. 

Boil  potatoes  and  peel  while  hot,  then  slice  them. 
Dice  two  peeled  tart  apples,  one  onion,  a  piece  of  boiled 
ham,  a  piece  of  cold  veal,  a  piece  of  boiled  smoked 
tongue,  and  a  cleaned  and  boned  herring.  Chop  fine 
hard-boiled  whites  and  the  yolks,  each  separately,  and 
cut  cleaned  anchovies  into  strips.  Place  in  the  bowl  a 
layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  apples,  onion,  herr- 
ing, meat  and  capers,  and  continue  until  the  bowl  is 
full.  Garnish  the  top  with  anchovies  in  the  form  of  a 
star,  filling  the  spaces  between  with  the  minced  yolks 
and  whites  alternately.  Garnish  around  the  edge  with 
sliced  potatoes  and  red  beets^  alternately,  and  finally 
pour  French  dressing  over  the  salad. 

579.    DRIED   BEAN   SALAD. 

Fazolový  salát. 

Soak  two  cups  of  dried  beans  over  night.  Drain 
in  the  morning  and  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  add 
a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  salt  and  boil 
until  tender.  If  necessary,  add  water  while  boiling,  as 
the  beans  must  be  covered  all  the  time.  While  boiling, 
stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  When  done,  drain  well 
and  place  in  a  bowl,  sprinkle  with  minced  onion,  and 


176  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

pour  over  all  vinegar  and  water  sweetened  to  taste, 
while  tlie  beans  are  warm.  Add  pepper  and  serve 
cold. 

580.    RAW  MEAT  SALAD. 

Salát  ze  syrového  masa. 
Mince  very  fine  a  pound  of  beef  from  the  round, 
form  four  cones  of  this,  sprinkle  each  with  salt,  pepper 
and  minced  onion,  pour  over  them  vinegar  and  oil,  and 
allow  to  stand  thus  half  an  hour,  so  that  the  meat 
absorbs  all  the  flavoring.  You  may  garnish  with  ancho- 
vies, capers  or  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Cold  Sauces  for  Meats  or  Salads. — Studené 
omáčky  k  masu  a  na  saláty. 

581.    MAYONNAISE    DRESSING. 

Majonéza. 
Beat  two  yolks,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper, 
and  while  constantly  beating,  add  gradually,  drop  by 
drop,  a  cup  of  olive  oil,  or  fresh  melted  butter.  When 
all  the  oil  has  been  added,  thin  with  two  tablespoons  of 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  beating  all  the  while.  You  may 
also  add  paprika  and  mustard,  if  you  like.  If  the  mix- 
ture should  begin  to  separate,  beat  in  another  bowl  one 
yolk  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add,  bit  by  bit,  the 
separated  sauce. 

582.    BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Omáčka  na  saláty. 

Mix  three  yolks,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  half  a  tablespoon  of  paprika,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil,  a  cup  of  cream,  half  a  cup  of  hot  vinegar 
and  the  three  whites  beaten  partly.  Mix  together  in 
the  order  as  named  and  boil  in  a  double  boiler  over  a 
slow  fire,  or  in  a  dish  that  is  placed  in  boiling  water. 
When  it  thickens,  cool.     This  will  keep  two  weeks  in 


COLD  SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  OR  SALADS.  177 

a  cool  place.    It  can  be  thinned    with  sweet    or  sour 
cream  before  using. 

583.   REMOULADE    SAUCE. 

Remuláda. 
This  is  prepared  the  same  as  mayonnaise,    except 
that  hard-boiled  yolks  are  used  in  place  of  raw  eggs, 
being  mixed  smooth    with  salt,  pepper  and  oil    before 
the  procedure  begins. 

584.    AROMATIC    SAUCE. 

Omáčka  aromatická. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  several  slices  of  bread  (soaked 
in  vinegar)  with  three  hard-boiled  yolks,  a  bit  of 
thyme,  several  bay  leaves,  a  teaspoon  of  capers,  two 
of  anchovies  and  half  an  onion.  Add  wine  vinegar 
and  oil,  then  strain  and  thin  with  cold  beef  soup.  This 
sauce  is  served  with  beef  and  cold  veal. 

585.    COLD   GAME   SAUCE. 

Studená  omáčka  k  zvěřině. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  ten  juniper  berries  with  a  bit 
of  sugar  and  finely  minced  lemon  rind,  add  three  hard- 
boiled  yolks,  half  a  minced  onion,  and  pound  some 
more.  Then  add  two  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  or  melted 
butter,  ten  tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar  and  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  mix  well  and  strain.  If  necessary  thin 
with  vinegar. 

586.  COLD  ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

Studená  sardelová   omáčka. 
Wash  and  bone  four    anchovies,    mix  to  a  paste 
with  six  hard-boiled  yolks  and  minced  parsley.     Mix 
this  with  olive  oil  or  melted    butter  and    vinegar  and 
serve. 

587.    FISH   SAUCE   No.   1. 
Ryhi  omáčka. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter,    a  piece  of 
cleaned  carp    or  pike,   sliced    carrot  and    celery  root. 

Cook  Book  U 


17tí  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

pepper,  mace,  ginger  and  saffron  to  taste,  and  simmer, 
adding  water  now  and  then,  so  it  does  not  burn  and 
has  enough  liquor  at  all  times.  Then  strain,  thicken 
the  sauce  with  butter  and  flour  blended  together,  add 
a  little  wine  and  four  grated  hard-boiled  yolks,  mix 
together  and  cool.  This  sauce  is  served  with  pike  or 
trout. 

588.    FISH   SAUCE    No.    2. 

liyhi  omáčl-a  na  jiný  způsob. 
Pound  to  a  paste  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley, 
add  three  yolks,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  red 
pepper,  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  then  slowly  a  cup 
of  melted  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  very  finely  minced 
pickle. 

589.  COLD    MEAT    SAUCE. 
Omáčka  h  studenému  masu. 

Press  through  a  sieve  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  add 
half  a  cup  of  olive  oil  and  mix  until  smooth,  then  add 
three  cleaned  and  finely  chopped  anchovies,  a  table- 
spoon of  minced  parsley,  two  tablespoons  of  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  white  pepper,  a 
cup  of  wine  vinegar,  a  bit  of  water  and  a  dash  of  salt. 
Mix  together  thoroughly  and  serve  with  cold  meat  or 
fish.  This  will  keep  eight  days  or  longer  in  a  cool 
place. 

590.  RED    PEPPER   SAUCE. 

Peprnd  omáčka. 
Boil  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  fifteen  minutes,  with 
three  dozen  red  peppers,  two  heads  of  cabbage,  one 
horseradish  root,  a  cup  of  mustard  seed,  a  few  cloves 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Allow  to  stand  three  hours  after 
boiling,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

591.   BLACK    PEPPER    SAUCE. 

,  Pepřová  omáčka. 
Blend  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  of  flour 
until  quite  brown,  add  a  minced  onion,  a  tablespoon  of 
whole  black  peppers,   a    teaspoon  of  powdered    black 


COLD  SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  OR  SALADS.  179 

pepper,  several  allspice,  a  piece  of  ginger,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  two  cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  a  sprig  of  tliyme, 
about  two  tablespoons  of  wine  vinegar,  and  as  much 
beef  soup,  as  you  wish  to  have  sauce.  Boil  gently 
about  half  an  hour  and  strain.  If  too  thick,  add  soup; 
if  not  sour  enough,  add  vinegar. 

592.    EGG   SAUCE. 

Vaječná  omacl'a. 
Mix  three  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons of  flour,  add  salt,  pepper,  a  jiinch  of  nutmeg, 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  beat  thoroughly  until 
smooth,  then  boil  a  bit.  Add  two  beaten  yolks,  a 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  the  juice  of  one  le- 
mon, strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  cloth,  and  finally 
add  two  hard-boiled   eggs  chopped  fine. 

593.    HOLLANDAISE    SAUCE. 

Holandská  omáčka. 
Mix  smooth  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  water,  add 
six  yolks  or  three  whole  eggs,  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter,  a  few  whole  black  peppers  and  enough 
fish  stock  or  parsley  Avater  to  make  the  desired  amount. 
Mix  constantly  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  strain  the  sauce.  This  is 
served  with  fish  and  must  be  prepared  immediately 
before  serving.  If  it  be  necessary  that  it  stand  a 
while,  place  the  bowl  in  hot  water. 

594.    PIQUANTE    SAUCE. 

Pikantní  omáčka. 
Boil  a  small  cup  of  wine  vinegar  with  one  bay 
leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  three  shallots  or  one  small  onion, 
a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper.  When  about  half  done,  add 
beef  soup  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Then  strain, 
thicken  with  flour  and  butter  browned  together,  sweet- 
en to  taste,  simmer  a  bit  more  and  serve. 


180  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

595.    WINE    SAUCE. 

Vinná  omáčka. 
Pound  in  a  mortar  three  tablespoons  of  parsley, 
add  three  or  four  yolks,  mix  together  and  then  add 
warm  wine,  but  not  much,  so  it  would  not  be  too  thin. 
Then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  cloth,  season  with 
mace,  ginger,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  and  simmer  careful- 
ly, stirring  constantly,  until  the  sauce  becomes  a  nice 
color. 

Dumplings.— Knedlíky. 

596.   DUMPLINGS    No.    1. 

Obyčejné  moučné  knedlíky. 

Beat  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
milk,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  salt,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thick  dough,  which  can  be  thoroughly  beaten 
with  a  spoon.  Beat  five  or  more  minutes,  until  the 
dough  is  smooth,  then  let  it  stand  half  an  hour.  In 
the  meantime  fry  in  butter  two  slices  of  bread  cut 
into  dice,  cool  and  add  to  the  dough.  Make  dumplings 
the  size  of  a  small  apple,  dust  your  hands  with  flour 
and  roll  each  into  a  round  ball.  Place  in  boiling  salt- 
ed water  and  boil  10  minutes.  ,  Then  you  place  the 
dumplings  in  the  water,  they  usually  fall  to  the  bottom 
and  would  stick,  unless  you  pry  them  loose  with  a 
knife.  Then  cover  tightly  and  do  not  uncover  for  five 
minutes.  They  must  boil  constantly  but  not  too  rapidly. 
This  applies  to  the  manner  of  boiling  dumplings  in 
general  although  the  time  may  vary.  Dumplings  serv- 
ed with  meat  should  be  torn  apart  with  two  forks, 
(cutting  with  a  knife  impairs  the  lightness),  and 
sprinkled  with  fried  minced  onion  or  fried  bread 
crumbs  and  melted  butter.  Dumplings  are  usually  done 
in  ten  minutes,  sometimes  longer,  as  shown  in  the 
recipes.  Try  one  by  tearing  it  in  halves,  if  raw  inside, 
boil  a  while  longer. 


DUMPLINGS.  181 

597.  DUMPLINGS    No.    2. 

Moučné  hnedliliy  na  jiný  způsob. 
Cream  half  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  three  eggs, 
one  at  the  time,  adding  with  each  eg.s:  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  flour,  and  beat  together  thoroughly.  Then 
add  six  tablespoons  of  milk  or  cream  (it  may  be  a 
trifle  sour)  and  add  with  each  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
beat  thoroughly  and  salt.  Brown  in  butter  two  slices 
of  bread  cut  into  dice  and  when  cool  add  to  the  dough. 

598.  DUMPLINGS    No.    3. 

Moučné  hnedlihy  ješié  na  jiný  způsob. 
Cream  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard,  add 
two  eggs,  mix  together,  add  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream 
or  rich  milk,  a  pound  of  flour,  and  beat  well,  until  the 
dough  does  not  stick,  then  add  four  slices  of  bread  cut 
into  dice  and  broAvned  in  butter,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Boil  half  an  hour. 

599.  DUMPLNGS   No.    4. 

Moučné  knedlíky  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Beat  three  eggs,  add  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  table- 
spoon of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  with 
three  cups  of  flour,  beat    thoroughly  and    make  five 
dumplings. 

600.    RAISED    DUMPLINGS    No.    1. 

Kynuté  knedlíky. 
In  the  morning  set  half  a  cup  of  milk,  three  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  If 
you  wish,  you  may  set  dry  yeast  over  night.  When  it 
rises,  cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  two  eggs,  add 
the  raised  batter,  two  cups  of  milk,  salt  and  enough 
flour  to  make  the  dough  as  stiff  as  for  bread.  Beat 
thoroughly,  then  knead  on  the  bread-board  and  when 
the  dough  is  smooth,  place  back  in  the  bowl,  to  rise. 
When  it  has  doubled  its  bulk  place  it  on  the  board,  cut 
into  pieces  the  size  of  an  apple,  form  each  into  a  ball 
and  let  each  rise  once  more  on  the  board.    Then  boil 


182  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

lialf  an  hour  in  boiling  water,  in  a  tightly  covered  pan. 
Wlien  done,  tear  each  in  halves  with  forks,  ponr  over 
them  melted  butter  or  the  fat  from  duck  or  geese  and 
serve. 

601.  RAISED  DUMPLINGS  No.  2. 
Kynuté  liiedlihy  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Mix  together  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
half  a  pound  of  cream  cheese,  three  eggs,  a  cake  of 
dissolved  yeast,  salt  to  taste  and  enough  milk  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.  Beat  well  and  let  it  rise.  Then  form 
small  dumplings,  which  should  rise  once  more  in  a  cool 
place.     Then  fry  them  in  hot  butter. 

602.    CRUMB    DUMPLINGS. 

Strouhánkové  Imedlíky. 
Sift  half  a  cup  of  flour  with  a  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder  and  mix  this  with  a  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
add  half  a  cup  of  milk  mixed  with  a  beaten  egg,  salt 
to  taste,  mix  together.  Form  three  dumplings  and 
boil  ten  minutes. 

603.  DUMPLINGS    WITH    BACON   No.    1. 

KnrdVd-y  špďové. 
Cut  into  dice  four  slices  of  bread  and  half  a  pound 
of  bacon,  and  fry  both  together.  Cool,  add  two  cups 
of  milk,  three  whole  beaten  eggs  and  two  yolks,  salt 
and  mix  together.  Then  add  enough  flour  to  form  a 
thick  batter,  which  is  beaten  thoroughly.  Make  dump- 
lings the  size  of  apples  and  boil  in  salted  water.  When 
done,  tear  each  in  halves  with  two  forks,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  pour  over  them  melted  butter  and 
serve  with  smoked  meat.  If  boiled  in  the  water  in 
which  smoked  meat  has  been  boiled,  they  will  be 
especially  good. 

604.  DUMPLINGS   WITH    BACON   No.    2. 

Knedlil-y  špehové  na  jiný  způsob. 
Heat  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  diced  bacon,  add  half 
an  onion  minced,  half  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley 


DUMPLINGS.  183 

and  half  a  pound  of  diced  boiled  smoked  meat.  Fry 
together  until  the  onion  turns  yellow.  Dice  eight  or 
ten  slices  of  bread,  add  to  the  rest  and  mix  until  the 
bread  absorbs  the  fat,  then  cool.  Place  all  on  a  well 
floured  board,  pour  over  it  two  or  three  eggs  beaten 
with  half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  flouring  your  liands  well 
form  dumplings  the  size  of  a  small  apple.  Boil  fifteen 
minutes. 

605.    DUMPLINGS   WITH   SMOKED   MEAT. 

Knedlík  11  s  uzeninou. 
Mince  fine  a  pound  of  lean  smoked  meat,  add  three 
slices  of  bread  diced  and  fried  in  butter,  three  slices 
of  bread  soaked  in  milk,  three  eggs  and  three  yolks, 
two  cups  of  milk,  salt  and  mix  together,  then  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Make  dumplings  the  size  of  an  apple  and  boil 
half  an  hour. 

606.    COTTAGE  CHEESE   DUMPLINGS  No.   1. 

Tvarohové  Tínedliky. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  fresh  butter,  add  three 
eggs  and  cream  again,  then  add  a  quart  of  cottage 
cheese  squeezed  dry,  salt  and  mix  until  smooth.  Then 
add  enough  farina  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to 
form  dumplings.  Flour  the  hands  well  and  roll  each 
dumpling  in  the  flour  and  place  in  boiling  water, 
Avhich  must  boil  constantly,  or  the  dumplings  would 
crumble.  When  they  begin  to  bob  around  on  the 
surface,  take  one  out,  tear  in  halves  and  see  if  it  is 
done.     If  raw  in  the  center,  boil  a  bit  longer. 

607.    COTTAGE    CHEESE    DUMPLINGS    No.    2. 

Tvarohové  knedlíky  na  jiný  způsob. 
Cream  a  piece  of  butter,  add  three  eggs  and  three 
yolks,  a  pound  of  cottage  cheese,  salt  and  mix  until 
smooth,  then  add  enough  bread  crumbs  and  flour  to 
form  dumplings.  Make  small  dumplings  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water. 


184  BOHEMIAN^AMEKICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

608.   FARINA    DUMPLINGS    No.    1. 

Krwpicne  l-nedliky. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  one  yolk  and 
two  whole  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  farina,  salt  and  mix 
thoroughly,  then  allow  it  to  stand  one  hour.  Then 
make  small  dumplings;  that  is,  take  the  dough  up  on 
a  teaspoon,  drop  it  in  salted  boiling  water  and  boil 
half  an  hour.  Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer,  arrange 
on  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  ]30ur  melted 
butter  over  them.  These  are  nice  with  creamed  pi- 
geons, chickens  or  veal. 

609.    FARINA  DUMPLINGS   No.  2. 

Krupičné  knedlíky  na  jiný  způsoih. 
Pour  one  cup  of  hot  milk  or  hot  water  and  butter 
over  two  cups  of  farina  and  stir  until  it  cools,  then 
add  three  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  milk,  three  slices 
of  bread  diced  and  fried,  salt  and  mix  together.  Then 
dip  your  hands  in  cold  water  and  make  small  round 
dumplings.    Boil  half  an  hour. 

610.    FARINA   DUMPLINGS   WITH   SMOKED 

MEAT. 

Krupičné  knedlíky  s  uzeninou. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  three  eggs, 
add  two  cups  of  farina  and  half  a  pound  of  finely  minc- 
ed smoked  meat,  salt  and  mix  together.  Take  up  on 
a  tablespoon  and  drop  in  boiling  salted  w^ater.  When 
done,  take  out  with  a  skimmer,  arrange  on  a  dish, 
sprinkle  with  fried  bread  crumbs  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  them. 

611.    FARINA   DUMPLINGS   IN    CUSTARD. 

Krwpicne  knedlíky  v  krému. 
Make  a  porridge  of  two  cups  of  farina  and  milk 
or  milk  and  water,  cool,  beat  into  it  two  eggs,  a  piece 
of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  salt,  mix  together.  Take 
up  on  a  teaspoon  and  drop  into  boiling  salted  water. 
When  done,  take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain  dry  on 


DUMPLINGS.  185 

a  napkin.  Butter  a  i)an,  dust  it  with  bread  crumbs  and 
arrange  the  dumi:)lings  in  it.  Beat  five  yolks  with  a  cup 
of  cream  .and  a  tablesi30on  of  sugar,  pour  over  the 
dumplings  and  steam  one  hour.  Before  serving,  place 
in  a  hot  oven  a  few  minutes,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  serve. 

612.  FRESH    PRUNE    DUMPLINGS    No.    1. 

Švestkové  hnedlilcij. 

Mix  together  a  pound  of  flour  with  two  beaten 
eggs  and  as  much  milk  or  cream  as  will  form  a  stiff 
dough,  salt,  beat  thoroughly,  place  on  the  board  and 
roll  out  about  half  an  inch  thin.  Cut  into  pieces  about 
three  inches  square  and  roll  each  piece  around  a  fresh 
prune  (blue  plum)  being  careful  that  the  dough  en- 
cases it  firmly,  otherwise  the  water  would  get  inside. 
Place  in  boiling  salted  water,  boil  about  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  arrange  on  a  platter  or  dish,  sprinkle  with  fried 
breadcrumbs,  cottage  cheese,  gingerbread  or  ground 
poppy  seed,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  all.  You  may 
add  a  piece  of  butter  to  the  dough  and  stone  the  plums, 
if  you  wish,  putting  sugar  in  the  cavity.  Fruit  dump- 
lings are  torn  in  halves  with  two  forks,  and  sprinkled 
liberally  with  sugar,  grated  cottage  cheese,  ginger- 
bread or  ground  poppy  seed,  and  melted  butter. 

613.  FRESH   PRUNE   DUMPLINGS   No.   2. 

SvesthovS  knedlíky  na  jiný  způsob. 

Cream  three  tablespoons  of  butter  with  three  of 
cottage  cheese,  add  three  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pound 
of  flour,  and  enough  milk  or  cream  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Beat  thoroughly,  roll  the  dough  out  on  a  well- 
floured  board,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  dust  the  hands 
well  with  flour  and  roll  a  blue  plum  in  each  piece  of 
dough.  Boil  and  serve  as  shown  in  the  preceding 
recipe. 


18(3  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

614.  FRESH   PRUNE   DUMPLINGS   No.   3. 

Švestkové  hnedlíl-j/  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Cream  a  tablespoon  of  fresli  butter,  add  three 
eggs,  beat  together,  then  add  six  cups  of  flour,  salt, 
three  tablespoons  of  liquid  yeast,  beat  together,  add 
enough  milk  or  cream  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  then  beat 
thoroughly  and  let  it  rise.  When  it  has  doubled  its 
bulk,  roll  the  dough  out  on  a  floured  board,  cut  into 
pieces  about  two  inches  square,  wrap  each  around  a 
fresh  blue  plum,  place  one  next  to  the  other  on  the 
board,  and  let  them  all  rise  again,  then  boil  as  shown 
above. 

615.  FRESH   PRUNE   DUMPLINGS   No.   4. 

Švestkové  hnedlihif  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 

Cream  a  tablespoon  of  fresh  butter,  add  two  eggs 
and  cream  well,  then  add  a  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoon 
of  sugar  and  salt  to  taste,  sift  two  cups  of  flour  with 
a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  add  to  the  rest.  If 
necessary,  add  enough  flour  to  make  dough  about  as 
stiff  as  for  biscuits.  Take  the  dough  up  on  a  table- 
spoon,  dip  each  in  flour  and  form  into  a  ball,  then  roll 
out  and  wrap  each  around  a  plum.  Boil  about  fifteen 
minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.  They  must  not  over- 
boil, or  they  would  fall.  You  ma}^  use  apples  cut  in 
quarters,  or  if  small,  in  halves. 

616.    DRIED    PRUNE    DUMPLINGS. 

Knedlíky  se  suchými  švestkami. 

Prepare  dough  as  shown  in  the  preceding  recipe. 
Boil  nice  dried  prunes  until  tender  with  sugar  and  a 
bit  of  lemon  rind.  California  prunes  are  the  best  for 
this  purpose.  When  done,  cool  and  stone,  and  put  two  or 
three  in  each  dumpling.  Boil  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  fried  bread  crumbs  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  them. 


DUMPLINGS.  187 

617.  FRUIT    DUMPLINGS,    (BOILED). 

Ovocné  hnedlíhy,  vařené. 
Prepare  dough  as  shown  for  prune  dumplings,  cut  it 
into  pieces,  roll  each  flat  and  wrap  around  a  stoned 
peach.  If  the  peaches  are  large,  you  may  put  a  half 
in  each  dumpling.  Boil  as  shown  in  the  preceding 
recipe.  You  may  use  diced  apples,  cherries,  plum  jam 
or  cottage  clieese  instead  of  peaches. 

618.  FRUIT    DUMPLINGS,    (BAKED). 

Ovocné  l-nedlíkij,  pečené. 
Prepare  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  cut  it  into  pieces,  roll 
each  into  a  ball,  roll  out  flat  and  wrap  in  each  a  peeled 
and  stoned  peach.  Arrange  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  pour  hot  water  until  it  reaches  one 
third  the  height  of  the  pan,  cover  the  pan  and  place  in 
a  hot  oven.  In  ten  minutes  take  the  cover  off,  and  bake 
the  dumplings  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer,  until 
brown.  Serve  with  custard,  melted  butter  or  cream. 
You  may  use  apples  or  cherries  instead  of  peaches. 

619.    CREAM  DUMPLINGS. 

Smetanové  JcnedUJcy. 
Beat  six  eggs  with  a  quart  of  cream,  add  a  quart 
of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  beat  well.  The  batter 
should  be  like  pancake  batter.  Dice  twelve  slices  of 
bread,  fry  in  hot  butter,  when  cool  mix  with  the  fore- 
going. Take  the  dough  up  on  a  tablespoon  dipped  in  cold 
water  and  drop  into  rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  Boil 
about  half  an  hour.  Then  drain,  cut  in  slices,  arrange  on 
a  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  them. 

620.    POTATO    DUMPLINGS    No.  1. 

Knedlíky  z  vavených  hramhor. 
Soak  two  slices  of  bread  in  milk,  add  salt  and  minc- 
ed chives,  three  eggs,  minced  and  fried    onion,  and  a 
pound  of  boiled  grated  potatoes.     Beat  together  thor- 
oughly, form  dumplings  and  boil  them  in  salted  water. 


188  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

621.    POTATO    DUMPLINGS    No.    2. 

Branihorové  Vnedlthy  na  jini)  zptisoh. 

Boil  six  medium-sized  potatoes.  Peel  while  hot 
and  roll  on  the  board  with  a  rolling  pin.  Then  form  into 
a  heap,  make  a  well  in  the  middle,  pour  in  two  beaten 
eggs,  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  cup  of  flour,  knead  together 
and  roll,  adding  more  flour,  so  that  the  mixture  be 
quite  stiff.  •  Cut  into  six  pieces,  make  dumplings  and 
boil  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  done,  halve,  sprinkle 
with  melted  butter  and  fried  minced  onion. 

622.  RAW    POTATO    DUMPLINGS    No.    1. 

Knedlil'y  ze  syrových  hr-amhor. 

Grate  six  raw  peeled  potatoes,  drain  (not  too  dry), 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  salt,  knead, 
and  make  dumplings.  Boil  them  in  rapidly  boiling 
salted  water.  You  may  add  one  or  two  eggs  if  you 
wish,  they  will  be  lighter.  Or  you  may  use  equal  parts 
of  raw  and  boiled  potatoes. 

623.  RAW   POTATO   DUMPLINGS   No.   2. 

Knedlíky  ze   syrových    hrainhor   na  jiný   způsob. 

Place  three  tablespoons  of  lard  in  a  saucepan  with 
half  a  cup  of  farina  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  stir 
until  the  farina  is  light  brown.  Grate  a  plateful  of 
boiled  potatoes,  add  one  egg,  salt,  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  half  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  rather  stiff  batter,  but  not  too  stiff.  Make 
small  oblong  rolls,  about  the  size  of  half  a  finger,  and 
drop  them  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  they  rise  to 
the  top,  take  them  out,  drain  and  place  in  hot  fat  and 
fry  light  brown. 


PANCAKES.  189 

Pancakes. — Lívance. 

624.   WHEAT    PANCAKES. 

Lívance  z  pšeničné  mouky. 

Beat  two  yolks  with  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  add  salt, 
a  cup  of  sifted  flour  and  beat.  If  too  thin,  add  flour. 
The  batter  should  be  thin  enough  to  run.  Beat  two 
whites,  add  to  the  batter  with  a  bit  of  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  a  teaspoon  of  hot  water,  and  fold  in  care- 
fully.   Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. 

625.    GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

Lívance  z   niouhy  připravené. 

These  are  made  with  the  prepared  self -rising  flour. 
Mix  a  cup  of  this  flour  with  two  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
or  two  cups  of  water  to  which  you  have  added  a  beaten 

Qgg.    Bake  in  the  usual  manner. 

• 

626.   RAISED    GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

Lívance   Icynuté. 

Beat  three  eggs  with  two  cups  of  milk,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  powdered,  sugar,  a  piece  of  melted  butter,  two 
or  three  tablespoons  of  liquid  yeast,  or  half  a  cake  of 
dissolved  compressed  yeast,  salt  and  beat  thoroughly, 
then  add  enough  flour  to  form  a  batter  of  the  right 
consistency,  and  let  it  rise.  Bake  in  the  usual  manner, 
spread  each  pancake  with  jam,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cottage  cheese,  or  ground  poppy  seed  and  sugar  mixed 
together,  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter.  You  may 
substitute  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

627.    BAKING    POWDER    PANCAKES. 

Lívance  s  práškem. 

Beat  two  cups  of  milk  with  six  yolks,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  a  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  a 
heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  and  mix  together. 


190  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Beat  the  six  whites  and  fold  carefully  into  the  batter, 
then  bake  in  the  usual  manner. 

628.    BUTTERMILK    PANCAKES. 

Lívance  z  podmásU. 
Beat  two  eggs,    add  a  quart  of    buttermilk,  a  tea- 
spoon of  baking    soda  dissolved  in  hot    water,  salt  to 
taste  and  enougli  flour  to  form  a  batter.     Bake  in  the 
usual  manner. 

629.    BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

Pohanl'ove  lívance. 
Dissolve  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  two  cups 
of  lukewarm  water  and  the  same  amount  of  milk,  or 
use  a  cake  of  dry  yeast,  add  enough  buckwheat  flour 
to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of 
syrup  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved 
in  warm  water,  beat  together,  and  bake  over  a  hot  fire. 
•If  you  do  not  have  milk  use  water,  adding  two  beaten 
eggs  to  a  quart  of  water.  If  this  is  added  to  the  batter 
before  baking,  it  will  take  the  place  of  milk.  The  syrup- 
gives  a  better  color.  Pancakes  made  of  self-rising 
buckwheat  flour  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  shown 
in  recipe  624. 

630.  POTATO  PANCAKES. 

Lívance  hranihorové. 
Grate  six  peeled  raw  potatoes,  drain  dry  through 
a  cloth,  add  six  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream,  two  beaten 
eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  and  fry  on  hot  butter.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  before 
serving. 

631.    CORNMEAL    PANCAKES. 

K uJi' u rial é  I iva nee. 
Pour  hot  water  over  two  cups  of  cornmeal,  allow 
it  to  stand  thus  half  an  hour  and  when  cool  add  a  tea- 
spoon   of  butter,    a  teaspoon  of  sugar,    a  dash    of  salt, 
five  tablesi)oons  of  sweet  milk  and  three  beaten  yolks. 


PORRIDGES.  191 

Sift  together  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  with  a  table- 
spoon of  wheat  flour,  add  to  the  batter  and  mix.  Finally 
add  three  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  bake. 

632.  RAISED  CORNMEAL  PANCAKES. 

Kukuřičné  lívance  kijnuté. 
Pour  hot  water  over  a  cup  qf  cornmeal,  but  not 
more  than  it  will  absorb.  This  is  done  in  the  evening. 
When  cool,  add  two  cups  of  milk  and  two  tablespoons 
of  liquid  yeast,  or  half  a  cake  of  compressed  j^esist 
dissolved,  a  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar  and  let  it  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  two  beaten  eggs,  salt, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
mix  and  bake. 

633.    CRUMB    PANCAKES. 

Chlebové  lívance. 
To  a  quart  of  milk  add  three  beaten  eggs,  a  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  If  the 
milk  is  sweet,  use  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  mixed 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  If  sour,  use  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Add  two  cups  of 
bread  crumbs  to  the  milk,  mix  and  bake. 

Porridges. — Kaše. 

634.  FARINA    PORRIDGE    No.    ll^ 

Krupióná  hase. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  of  good  butter,  add  tw^o  cups 
of  farina  and  let  is  get  a  light  brown,  but  it  must  not 
scorch  and  it  must  be  smooth.  Then  add  gradually  en- 
ough hot  water  to  make  a  thick  mush,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pour  melted  butter 
over  it  before  serving. 

635.  FARINA    PORRIDGE    No.    2. 

Krupičná  Vaše  na  jinfj  způsob. 
Bring  a  quart  of  milk  to  the  boiling    point,  then 
add  gradually  two  cups  of  farina,  stirring  constantly. 


192  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Set  aside  and  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Then  salt,  place  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  pour  over  it  melted  butter  and 
serve. 

636.    BARLEY  GRITS  PORRIDGE. 

Kaše  z  krupice. 
Porridge  made  of  barley  grits,  rice,  oatmeal,  etc. 
should  be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler.  Wash  a  cup  of 
barley  grits  in  several  waters,  the  last  being  hot,  add 
a  qii^rt  of  milk  and  boil  in  the  double  boiler  two  hours. 
When  done,  add  salt,  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter 
and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar  before  serving. 

637.    OATMEAL  PORRIDGE. 

Kaše  ovesná. 
Boil  together  a  quart  of  milk,  or  half  water  and 
half  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  salt  to  taste.  When 
it  begins  to  boil,  add  the  the    oatmeal  and    boil  two 
hours  or  longer.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

638.    CORNMEAL   PORRIDGE. 

Kaše  kuhuřičná. 
Mix  a  cup  of  cornmeal  with  cold  water,  so  it  forms 
a  thin  batter.  If  boiled  in  a  double  boiler,  use  two 
quarts  of  milk  or  half  milk  and  half  water.  If  boiled 
in  an  ordinary  kettle,  use  water,  as  the  milk  would 
scorch.  When  the  milk  or  water  begins  to  boil,  pour 
the  batter  into  it  and  boil  two  hours. 

639.    FRIED    CORNMEAL    MUSH. 

Smažená  kaše  kukuřičná. 
Mix  a  quart  of  cornmeal  with  cold  water  to  form 
a  batter.  Pour  this  into  two  quarts  of  water  boiling 
in  a  crock,  add  salt  and  boil  slowly  two  hours,  stir- 
ring occasionally.  When  done,  pour  the  mush  into  a 
shallow  pan,  so  that  when  set  the  mixture  will  be  not 
more  than  two  inches  thick.  The  next  morning  cut  this 
in  slices,  dip  each  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  or. 
in  flour  only  and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Serve  with  syrup. 


PORRIDGES.  193 

640.   CORNMEAL  PORRIDGE  WITH  CRACKLINGS. 

Ruslcé  jídlo  z  kuhančné  mouky  se  škvarky. 

Boil  the  cornmeal  musli  as  shown  in  the  preceding 
recipe,  adding  a  generous  quantity  of  cracklings  and 
stirring  them  in.  Cover,  place  the  dish  in  the  oven, 
and  bake  one  and  a  half  hours.  When  done,  pour  into 
a  shallow  dish,  cut  in  slices  with  a  strong  thread,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  or  cottage  cheese  and  serve. 

641.  BAKED    RICE    PORRIDGE    No.    1. 

Pečená  rýže. 
Wash  a  small  cup  of  rice,  place  in  a  deep  baking 
dish  and  add  three  pints  of  milk,  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  a  dash  of  salt  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  three 
hours.  As  the  milk  evaporates,  add  hot  milk.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

642.  BAKED    RICE   PORRIDGE   No.    2. 

Pečená  rýže  na  jiný  způsob. 
Pick  over  and  wash  half  a  cup  of  rice,  pour  over  it 
a  quart  of  milk,  add  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  it  into  a 
baking  dish,  and  bake  slowly  until  the  milk  evaporates. 
Serve  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  melted  butter. 

643.    BOILED  RICE   PORRIDGE. 

Rýžová  kaše. 
Pick  over  and  wash  a  cup  of  rice,  add  a  quart  of 
milk  and  boil,  stirring  occasionally.  When  done,  add 
salt  to  taste,  place  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon 
and  sugar,  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter.  Some  cooks 
add  boiled  and  stoned  prunes  to  boiled  rice. 

644.    PEARL   BARLEY   PORRIDGE. 

Krupičná  kaše. 
Wash    two    cups    of   barley,    add    one    and  a  half 
quarts  of  water,  salt,  a  large  pinch  of  caraway  seed, 
and  boil  until  tender  and  thick,  stirring  often.  Then  turn 

Cook  Book  13 


194  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

into  a  dish,  pour  over  it  melted  butter  and  serve  with 
smoked  meat. 

645.    PEARL    BARLEY   PORRIDGE    WITH 
MUSHROOMS. 

Černý  kuba. 

Boil  two  cups  of  barley  as  shown  above.  In  the 
meantime  stew  a  cup  of  sliced  fresh  or  half  a  cup  of 
dried  mushrooms  in  butter  with  a  bit  of  green  parsley. 
Mix  the  mushrooms  with  the  boiled  barley,  add  a  bit  of 
creamed  butter,  a  dash  of  pepper,  marjoram  and  a  clove 
of  garlic  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  salt,  mix  all  together 
and  bake  half  an  hour.  If  you  use  dried  mushrooms, 
you  must  soak  them  in  cold  water  several  hours  before 
using. 

646.    MILLET    PORRIDGE. 

Jáhelná  lease. 
Pick  over  and  wash  three  times  in  boiling  water. 
To  two  cups  of  millet  add  one  and  a  half  quarts  of 
water,  salt  and  boil  one  and  a  half  or  two  hours,  stirring 
often.  Then  turn  into  a  dish  and  sprinkle  over  it 
minced  onion  fried  in  butter.  You  may  also  boil  millet 
in  milk,  adding  salt  to  taste  and  serving  with  grated 
gingerbread  and  melted  butter.  If  you  beat  an  egg 
with  milk  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  mixing  it 
smooth,  and  pour  this  over  the  mush  while  boiling,  it 
will  add  very  much  to  its  flavor. 

647.    MILLET   PORRIDGE   WITH  SMOKED   MEAT. 

Jáhelná  lease  s  uzeným  masem. 
Wash  the  millet  in  lukewarm  water,  boil  in  sweet 
milk  until  tender  and  thick,  then  cool.  Use  a  cup  of 
millet  to  a  quart  of  milk.  Beat  four  eggs  and  add  them 
to  the  mush  with  a  dash  of  salt.  Slice  smoked  pork, 
arrange  the  pieces  in  the  baking  pan,  pour  the  mush 
over  them  and  bake  until  light  brown. 


m 


NOODLES,  ETC.  195 

NoodleSy  etc. — Nudle,  atd. 

Noodles  are  always  placed  in  boiling  water,  salted 
to  taste. 

648.    BUTTERED    NOODLES. 

Nudle  mastě né. 
Sift  four  Clips  of  flour  on  the  bread-board,  make 
a  well  in  the  middle,  break  four  eggs  into  it,  and  knead 
a  smooth  dough.  Gut  it  into  several  pieces  and  allow 
them  to  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Then  roll  each 
out  rather  thick  and  after  drying  cut  into  coarse  noodles. 
Boil  these  in  salted  boiling  water,  drain,  turn  into  a 
dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  cottage  cheese  or  bread 
crumbs,  pour  melted  butter  over  them  and  serve. 

649.    NOODLES   IN  MILK. 

Nudle  v  ínléce. 
Make  coarse  noodles    as  shown   in  the    preceding 
recipe.    Boil  them  in  boiling  milk,    when  nearly  done 
add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  jjinch  of  mace,  a  bit  of  sugar, 
and  simmer  a  bit  longer. 

650.  NOODLES  WITH  COTTAGE  CHEESE. 

Nudle  s  tvarohem. 
Cream  two  whole  eggs,  two  yolks  and  a  piece  of 
butter,  add  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind 
of  half  a  lemon,  a  pound  of  good  cottage  cheese,  a  table- 
spoon of  blanched  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Then  add  carefully  boiled  noodles  made  of 
flour  and  one  egg  and  one  yolk,  mix  lightly,  turn  into 
a  buttered  dish,  dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  grated  almonds,  and  bake  light  brown.  Beat  three 
yolks  with  half  a  cup  of  hot  cream,  add  powdered 
sugar  and  pour  over  the  noodles  before  serving. 

651.    NOODLES    BAKED    WITH    ONIONS. 

Nudle  pečené  s  rajshmi  jaMicky,  cibulí  a  sýrem. 
Make  coarse  noodles  and  boil  them.  In  the  meantime 
fr>^  a    quantity  of    minced    onion.     Turn    the    drained 


196  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

noodles  into  tlie  onion,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  tomatoes  to 
taste,  a  clove  of  garlic  pounded  to  a  paste,  mix  together, 
turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  cover  with  grated  or  thinly 
sliced  cheese,  cover  and  bake  about  three  quarters  of 
an  hour.  Uncover  ten  minutes  before  it  is  done,  so  that 
the  top  browns  nicely. 

652.    NOODLES   WITH    HAM. 

Flíčky  s  uzeninoii. 
You  may  use  the  left-over  bits  of  a  ham,  or  you 
may  boil  smoked  meat.  Eoll  out  noodle  dough  rather 
thick,  cut  it  into  tiny  squares  instead  of  noodles  and  boil. 
If  you  use  smoked  meat,  boil  the  noodles  in  its  liquor. 
Butter  a  pan  thickly,  place  in  it  a  layer  of  the  noodles, 
a  layer  of  the  ham  or  meat  minced,  and  so  continue, 
the  top  layer  being  noodles.  Beat  four  yolks  with  two 
cups  of  milk  or  cream,  pour  over  the  mixture,  dot  the 
top  with  butter  and  bake  slowly  until  a  light  brown. 

653.    COTTAGE    CHEESE   ROLLS. 

Tvarohové  tašky. 
Make  a  thick  batter  of  one  egg,  a  cup  of  water 
and  flour,  salt  and  let  it  stand  a  while.  In  the  mean- 
time prepare  the  cottage  cheese.  Add  sugar  to  taste 
to  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  cottage  cheese,  two  eggs, 
a  handful  of  currants  (washed),  a  few  bitter  almonds 
(blanched  and  grated),  and  mix  together.  Eoll  out  the 
dough  thin  as  for  noodles,  spread  the  cottage  cheese 
mixture  evenly  over  it,  roll  up,  and  cut  into  pieces  two 
or  three  inches  long  (like  cinnamon  rolls).  Press  together 
at  both  ends  and  boil  in  boiling  salted  water.  When 
done,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  melted  butter. 

654.    FRIED    FARINA    QUENNELLES. 

Smažené  Iduzhy  krupičné. 

Pour    two    tablespoons  of    melted  lard    over    two 

cups  of  farina,  add  salt  to  taste,  and    enough    boiling 

water  to    make  a  soft    batter.     Cool,    add  two    beaten 

eggs.      Dip  a    tablespoon  in  cold    water  and    take  the 


i 


STRUDELS.  197 

batter  up  on  it,  dropping  it  into  boiling  salted  water. 
When  done,  drain,  fry  in  butter  and  serve. 

655.    CRUMB   QUENNELLES   IN   CREAM. 

Kluzký  ve  smetaně. 
Cream  six  yolks  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
add  enough  bread  crumbs  to  make  a  rather  thick. batter, 
salt  to  taste  and  mix  together.  Take  this  batter  up  on 
a  teaspoon,  and  fry  light  brown  in  butter.  Bring  two 
cups  of  cream  to  the  boiling  point,  add  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  mix  five  beaten 
yolks  wdth  a  bit  of  cold  cream,  add  to  the  rest,  beat 
thoroughly.  Arrange  the  quennelles  in  a  dish,  pour 
the  cream  over  them,  place  the  dish  on  a  tin  dusted 
with  salt,  and  put  it  in  a  hot  oven.  When  real  hot  (it 
must  not  bake)  take  it  out  and  serve. 

656.   MACARONI. 

MaJcaronJcy. 
Break  into  small  pieces  a  pound  of  macaroni  and 
boil  half  an  hour  in  salted  water,  adding  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  and  a  dash  of  salt.  Drain,  put  a  layer 
of  same  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  grat- 
ed Swiss  cheese,  dot  with  butter,  and  so  continue, 
sprinkling  over  the  top  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Tli^ 
macaroni  should  not  bake,  it  must  simply  get  thor- 
oughly hot  in  the  oven.  Or  you  may  cover  the  boiled 
macaroni  with  four  yolks  beaten  with  a  cup  of  cream, 
sprinkle  with  cheese  and  bake. 

Strudels. — Strudle. 

657.    APPLE    STRUDEL    No.    1. 

Tažená  strudle  s  jablky. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut  in 

a  cup  of  lukew^arm  water.     Beat  in  one  egg,  a  fourth 

of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.     Sift  a  quart  of 

flour  on  the  bread-board,  make  a  well  in  the    center, 


198  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

pour  into  it  the  foregoing,  and  knead  the  dough  thor- 
oughly, beating  it  with  the  rolling  pin.  Cover  with  a  hot 
bowl  and  let  it  stand  one  hour.  In  the  meantime  peel 
and  slice  thin  some  apples.  Pick  over  and  clean  half 
a  pound  of  raisins  and  fry  bread  crumbs  in  butter.  Now 
spread  a  white  cloth  on  the  table,  dust  it  thickly  with 
flour  and  stretch  the  dough  over  it,  until  it  is  almost 
transparent,  (it  must  not  tear  or  break).  Two  can 
do  this  much  better  than  one.  Then  spread  apples  over 
tlie  dough,  sprinkle  with  the  bread  crumbs,  raisins 
or  currants  and  sugar,  cinnamon  and  melted  butter. 
Lift  the  cloth  at  one  side  and  thus  roll  the  strudel  up 
like  a  jelly  roll.  Butter  a  baking  pan,  turn  the  strudel 
into  it  carefully,  rub  it  over  with  butter  and  bake  slowly 
one  hour.  Rub  with  butter  after  it  begins  to  bake  and 
when  it  is  half  done,  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  milk  or 
cream.  When  done,  cut  in  slices,  dust  each  thickly 
with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

658.    APPLE    STRUDEL   No.   2. 

Tažená  štrudle  s  jaMky  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Beat  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  tepid  water  with  one 
e^g  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Sift  a  cup  of  flour  on 
tlie  bread-board,  make  a  well  in  the  center  and  pour  into 
it  the  foregoing,  then  knead  thoroughly,  adding  flour 
if  necessary.  Pound  the  dough  with  a  rolling  pin,  place 
it  on  a  napkin  and  cover  with  a  warm  bowl  or 
pan,  letting  it  lie  thus  fifteen  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time peel  and  slice  apples,  mince  blanched  almonds, 
pick  over  and  wash  seedless  raisins,  and  prepare  cinna- 
mon, sugar  and  melted  butter.  Then  stretch  the  dough 
as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  cover  with  the  sliced 
apples,  sprinkle  with  the  almonds,  cinnamon,  sugar 
and  thin  slices  of  fresh  butter,  roll  and  bake  as  directed 
in  the  preceding  recipe. 


STRUDELS.  199 

659.    RICE    STRUDEL. 

Tažená  štrudle  s  rýii. 
Prepare  the  dough  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
recipe.  Have  ready  a  cup  of  rice  boiled  in  a  quart  of 
milk,  add  to  it  two  tablespoons  of  creamed  butter,  salt 
to  taste,  five  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  vanilla  flavoring 
to  taste,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Finally  fold  in  three 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Then  stretch  the  dough,  spread 
with  the  rice  filling,  roll  and  bake  as  shown  in  the 
foregoing  recipe. 

660.    CHOCOLATE    STRUDEL. 

Tažená  štrudle  s  čokoládou. 
Cream  six  yolks  with  six  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
add  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  pounded 
to  a  paste,  two  squares  of  grated  chocolate,  three  beaten 
whites,  and  mix  together  carefully.  Prepare  the  dough 
as  shown  in  the  foregoing  recipes,  spread  with  butter 
and  then  with  the  chocolate  filling,  roll  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  pan,  after  having  sprinkled  the  strudel  with 
grated    chocolate    and    poured    over  it  a  cup  or  so  of 

cream. 

661.    CREAM    STRUDEL. 

Tažená  smetanová  štrudle. 
Prepare  the  dough  as  shown  in  any  of  the  foregoing 
recipes,  cover  with  a  hot  pan.  Cream  three  table- 
spoons of  butter  with  four  yolks,  add  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream  and  fold  in  the  four  whites  beaten  stiff.  Stretch 
the  dough,  spread  with  the  filling,  sprinkle  with  raisins, 
chopped  blanched  almonds  and  sugar,  roll  and  bake 
slowly.  Allow  tw^o  cups  of  cream  to  come  to  the  boiling 
pointy  add  six  yolks  beaten  with  a  bit  of  wine  and  fine 
sugar,  beat  until  thick,  and  serve  as  a  sauce  with  the 
strudel. 

662.  COTTAGE  CHEESE  STRUDEL. 

Tažená  štrudle  s  tvarohem. 
Prepare  the  dough  as  shown  in  any  of  the  preced- 
ing recipes.    Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one 


200  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

pound  of  cottage  cheese,  add  four  yolks,  one  whole  egg, 
sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste.  The  cheese  should  be  quite 
sweet.  Stretch  the  dough,  rub  with  beaten  egg,  spread 
with  the  prepared  cheese,  sprinkle  with  raisins  and 
chopped  blanched  almonds,  roll  and  bake. 

663.    CHERRY   STRUDEL. 

Tažená  štrudle  s  višněmi. 
Prepare  the  dough  as  shown  for  apple  strudel.  Pit 
two  quarts  of  nice  juicy  cherries,  stew  them  a  bit,  then 
drain  and  cool.  Pound  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  blanched 
almonds  to  a  paste,  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the 
grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Grate  two  slices  of  stale 
bread  and  mix  all  together.  Stretch  the  dough,  rub 
with  melted  butter,  spread  with  the  stewed  cherries, 
sprinkle  with  the  mixture,  roll  and  bake. 

664.    RAISED  DOUGH   STRUDEL. 

Kynutá  štrudle  s  mákem. 
Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  six  eggs, 
beat  well,  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  cream, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  the  batter  medium  stiff,  add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  piece  of  compressed  yeast  (dis- 
solved in  tepid  milk  or  water),  and  let  it  rise.  When 
light,  place  the  dough  on  a  thoroughly  buttered  board 
and  roll  very  thin.  Mix  together  two  cups  of  ground 
poppy  seed  boiled  in  milk,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  finely 
chopped  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  spread  over  the  dough 
and  roll.   Bake  in  a  buttered  pan,  slowly. 

665.  FRENCH  PANCAKE  STRUDEL  WITH 
COTTAGE  CHEESE. 

Litá  štrudle  s  tvarohem. 
Mix  smooth  eight  tablespoons  of  flour  with  a  small 
amount  of  milk,  add  five  eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar 
and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt,  mix 
thoroughly,  then  add  enough  milk  to  make  batter  as 
for  pancakes.  Bake  on  both  sides  in  a  tin  or  griddle, 
pouring  in  a    small  amount  of  batter,  so  it  bakes  very 


PUFF  PASTE.  201 

thin.  Cream  half  a  pound  of  cottage  cheese  with  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  add  five  yolks,  six  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  hand- 
ful of  cleaned  seedless  raisins.  Mix  all  together  thor- 
oughly, spread  over  the  baked  individual  pancakes, 
roll  each,  arrange  in  a  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  pour  under  a  bit  of  hot  milk,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  When  done,  take  out  with  a  pancake  turner, 
arrange  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar  and  serve. 

666.  FRENCH  PANCAKE  CHOCOLATE  STRUDEL. 

Litá  Hrudle  s  čokoládou. 
Grate  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  chocolate,  place  it 
in  a  pan  with  six  tablespoons  of  flour  and  the  same 
amount  of  sugar,  a  quart  of  milk,  mix  well  and  boil 
thick  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  or  beating  constantly. 
Cool,  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  eight  yolks,  beat- 
ing these  in  thoroughly,  and  fold  in  the  eight  whites, 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  pancakes  as  shown  in  the  preceding 
recipe,  spread  with  the  chocolate  filling,  roll  each  and 
proceed  as  shown  in  recipe  No.  665. 

667.  FRENCH  PANCAKE  CHERRY  STRUDEL. 

Litá  štrudle  s  višněmi. 
Pit  two  quarts  of  cherries,  stew  until  thick  with 
four  tablespoons  of  sugar    and  a  bit  of  grated  lemon 
rind.   Spread  on  baked  pancakes,  roll  each  and  proceed 
as  shown  in  the  two  mentioned  recipes. 

Puff  Paste  and  Pies. — Máselné  těsto  a  páje. 

668.    PUFF   PASTE   No.   1. 

Máselné  těsto. 
This  is  very  difficult  to  make  according  to  a 
printed  description,  and  the  best  success  is  attained 
when  one  can  watch  an  experienced  cook  work.  The 
illustration  shown  Iierc  will  give  some  idea  of  the  way 
puff  paste  must  be  handled.  To  two  cups  of  flour  use 
one  cup  of  firm  butter.     This  should  be  unsalted.     If 


202 


BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 


you  have  salted  butter,  wash  it  in  cold  water  and  dry 
it  thoroughly  with  a  napkin.  Work  about  a  handful 
of  flour  into  the  butter,  then  put  it  on  ice.  Add  two 
yolks,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  water  to  the  rest 
of  the  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  this  until 
it  does  not  stick  to  the  hands  or  board.  Then  put  it  on 
ice  for  five  minutes.  Now  roll  it  thin  (about  half  an 
inch)  on  a  floured  board.  Place  the  butter  in  the  center 
of  the  dough  (see  Fig.  1.)  and  fold  over  it  one  half  of 


the  rolled  dough  (Fig.  2.),  then  the  other  half  (Fig.  3.), 
and  then  each  end  over  the  other  (Fig.  4).  Place 
between  two  plates  and  put  on  ice  for  ten  minutes. 
Now  roll  the  dough  very  thin,  then  fold  over  three 
times  (Fig.  5.),  then  fold  each  end,  toward  the  center 
(Fig.  6)  and  finally  fold  over  once  more  (Fig.  7).  Or  you 
may  roll  out  into  a  long  strip  (Fig.  8)  and  fold  over 
as  shown  in  Fig.  9.  The  dough  and  atmosphere 
should  be  cold,  in  order  that  the  butter  does  not  melt 
into  the  dough.     However,  if  this  work  is  being  done 


PIES.  203 

in  the  summer,  when  the  air  is  necessarily  warm,  you 
will  have  to  put  the  dougli  on  ice  for  ten  minutes  after 
each  folding,  before  making  the  next  fold.  When  used 
for  very  fine  pastry  puff  paste  is  rolled  and  folded 
over  nine  and  ten  times;  for  pies,  six  or  eight  times. 
It  is  best  to  do  this  the  day  before  using,  and  put  the 
paste  on  ice  until  the  next  day.  It  will  remain  in  good 
condition   (on  ice)   five  days. 

669.    PUFF    PASTE    No.    2. 

Máselné  těsto  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Wash  in  clear  cold  water  a  pound  of  butter,  take 
off  about  two  tablespoons  and  place  the  rest  on  ice, 
between  two  plates.  Place  on  the  board  four  cups  of 
flour,  mix  with  it  the  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add 
three  eggs,  a  dash  of  salt  and  enough  cold  water  to 
form  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  thoroughly  and  place  on 
ice,  between  two  plates.  When  the  dough  is  cold  and 
hard,  roll.  Roll  out  the  butter,  place  it  on  the  rolled 
dough,  fold  over  three  times,  roll  again,  and  fold  over 
three  times,  then  place  on  ice  for  half  an  hour.  Then 
roll,  turn  over,  fold  as  before,  and  roll  out  very  thin. 
It  is  then  ready  for  use. 

670.    PIE    CRUST. 

Pájové  těsto. 
Add  a  cup  of  lard  and  a  pinch  of  salt  to  a  quart  of 
sifted  flour,  work  it  in  thoroughly,  then  add  just 
enough  cold  water  to  make  the  dough  stick  together. 
Roll  in  one  direction.  You  may  add  half  a  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  This  will  make  two  pies,  or  four 
without  the  upper  crust.  If  you  wish  richer  crust,  you 
may  mix  a  quart  of  flour  with  a  cup  of  lard  and  a  cup 
of  butter,  adding  two  yolks,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cold 
water.  Pie  crust  may  also  be  made  by  sifting  two 
cups  of  flour  with  one  even  teaspoon  of  baking- 
powder  and  moistening  with  milk.  It  is  not  as  good 
as  the  other. 


204  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

671.  APPLE   PIE  No.   1. 

Jablkový  páj. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  thinly  rolled  pie  crust,  fill 
with  thinly  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon  or  grated  nutmeg,  dot  with  bits  of  butter, 
moisten  the  edge  with  water,  cover  with  the  top  crust, 
which  you  have  pricked  with  a  fork  or  knife,  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  rather  slow  oven.  Always  use 
tart  apples  for  pies. 

672.  APPLE   PIE   No.    2. 

Jabll-ovi/  páj  na  jiný  způsob. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust,  put  in  a  layer  of  thinly 
sliced  apples  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  then 
a  layer  of  seedless  raisins  stewed  in  wine,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  grated  lemon  rind,  then  a  layer  of 
apples,  cover  with  the  top  crust  and  bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

673.    APPLE    CUSTARD    PIE. 

Páj  s  jablkovým  custardem. 
Take  three  cups  of  tart  boiled  apples  pressed 
through  a  sieve,  one  cup  of  sugar,  six  beaten  eggs,  a 
quart  of  milk,  a  bit  of  grated  nutmeg,  mix  together 
and  pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  pie  crust.  When 
baked,  spread  with  the  beaten  whites  properly  sweet- 
ened, brown  and  serve. 

674.  PEACH   PIE   No.    1. 

Broskvový  páj. 
Slice  peaches  or  cut  them  into  small  pieces, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  and,  if  you  wish,  with  a  bit  of  rum. 
Then  proceed  as  with  apple  pie.  Apricot  and  plum 
pies  are  made  this  way  also,  the  fruit  being  peeled, 
stoned  and  halved. 

675.  PEACH   PIE   No.   2. 

Broskvový  páj  na  jiný  způsob. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust,  fill  with  peeled  and 
halved    peaches,    dust  with  two    tablespoons    of  flour, 


PIES.  205 

sprinkle  with  a  cup  of  sugar    or    more    if    necessary, 
pour  over  it  a  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream,  and  bake. 

676.    CHERRY   PIE. 

Višňový  páj. 
Pit  the  cherries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  also  with 
brandy  if  you  like,  dust  with  flour  and  fill  a  lined  pie 
plate  with  them.  Strawberry,  raspberry,  blackberry 
blueberry  and  grape  pies  are  made  this  way.  The 
amount  of  sugar  is  of  course  regulated  by  the  acidity 
of  the  fruit. 

677.  PINEAPPLE  PIE. 
Ananasový  páj. 
Cream  a  cup  of  sugar  with  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
add  five  beaten  yolks,  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  one  pared 
and  grated  pineapple,  mix  together,  then  fold  in  care- 
fully the  five  whites  beaten  stiff,  fill  a  pie  plate  lined 
with  crust.  This  will  make  two  pies  without  the  upper 
crust. 

678.  PIEPLANT  OR  RHUBARB  PIE. 
Bebarhorový  páj. 
Wash  and  peel  the  pieplant  stalks,  cut  them  into 
pieces  an  inch  long,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  fill  a  pie 
plate  lined  with  crust,  dust  with  flour,  cover  with  the 
upper  crust,  and  bake.  Dust  the  under  crust  with  flour 
before  putting  in  the  pieplant. 

679.  GRAPE   PIE. 

Hroznový  páj. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust.     Beat  one  ^gg,  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  large  cup  of  stemmed  grapes. 
Spread  over  the  crust,  dust  with  flour,  dot  with  butter, 
put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake. 

680.  RAISIN   PIE. 

Hrozinl'ovy  páj. 
Seed  a  cup  of  large  plump  raisins,  place  them  in  a 
Í3'á'ň  with  a  cup  of  water,  four  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  an  even  tablespoon  of  butter. 


206  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

You  may  add  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon  rind,  if  you  wish. 
Stew  about  fifteen  minutes,  tlien  add  enough  flour  to 
make  the  filling  as  thick  as  for  lemon  pies.  Line  a 
pie  plate  with  the  crust  and  bake  half  done,  then  spread 
with  the  filling,  and  bake  until  done.  When  done, 
spread  witli  whites  beaten  stiff  with  sugar  to  taste, 
and  brown  in  tlie  oven. 

681.    CUSTARD    PIE. 

Vaječní/  púj. 
Beat  three  eggs  with  a  quart  of  milk,  add  a  cup 
of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  mixed  smooth 
with  a  bit  of  milk,  a  dash  of  salt  and  vanilla  to  taste. 
Beat  together  thoroughly,  pour  into  two  pie  plates 
lined  with  crust  and  bake  rather  slowly.  You  may  use 
only  the  yolks  if  you  wish,  and  spread  the  pies  when 
done  with  tlie  wlutes  beaten  stiff,  as  with  lemon  or 
cream  pie. 

682.  LEMON    PIE    No.    1. 

i^ifronovfj  páj. 
Bring  a  cu])  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  add  a 
teaspoon  of  cornstarch  mixed  smooth  with  a  bit  of  cold 
milk,  let  it  boil  a  moment,  then  cool.  Then  add  two  eggs 
beaten  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon,  mix  together,  fill  two  pie 
plates  lined  with  crust,  and  bake  about  half  an  hour 
in  a  slow  oven.  If  you  wish,  you  may  add  a  teaspoon 
of  butter,  and  use  only  the  yolks,  using  tlie  whites 
l)eaten  stiff  and  sweetened  to  spread  over  tlie  pie  when 
done.    This  will  make  two  pies. 

683.  LEMON   PIE    No.    2. 

Citrónový  páj  na  jiný  zpiisoh. 
Pour  one  cup  of  milk  over  three  soda  crackers. 
Cream  one  teaspoon  of  butter  with  one  yolk  and  one 
whole  egg,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Mix  together  with  the  soaked  crackers  and 
pour   into   a  pie  jilate   lined  with   crust.     When   done. 


PIES.  207 

Spread  with  the  beateu  white,  to  which  you  have  added 
a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  let  it  brown  in  tiie  oven,  and 
serve. 

684.  LEMON  PIE  No.  3. 
Citrónový  páj  ještě  na  jiný  zimsoh. 
Mix  until  smooth  a  tablespoon  of  cornstarch 
with  as  much  cold  water,  add  it  to  one  cup  of  boiling 
w^ater,  and  let  all  boil  a  moment  or  tw^o.  Then  add  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  cool.  When  cool,  add  three 
yolks,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  In  the  meantime  line  a 
pie  plate  w^th  crust  and  bake  same.  When  done,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  spread  with  three  whites  beaten  stiff 
with  sugar  to  taste  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  let  it 
brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve. 

685.  COTTAGE  CHEESE  PIE. 

Tvaroliový  ycij. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust.  Fill  with  a  cup  of 
fresh  cottage  cheese,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  sprinkle 
with  half  a  cup  of  thoroughly  cleaned  currants.  Make 
a  custard  of  two  beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  lemon  extract  to  taste.  Pour 
this  over  the  mixture  and  bake. 

686.    PRESERVE    PIE. 

Páj  se  zavařeninou. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust,  fill  with  preserves  or 
marmeládě,  cover  with  strips  of  pie  crust  and  bake. 

687.    PRUNE    PIE. 

Páj  s  jahlkoi'ymi  'povidlí/. 
Mix  or  chop  smooth  boiled  prunes,  spread  over  a 
pie  plate  lined  with  crust,  half  filling  same  and  bake. 
When  done,  spread  with  two  whites  beaten  stiff,  pro- 
perly sweetened,  brown  in  the  over  and  serve. 

688.    PUMPKIN    PIE. 

Tf/kvový   páj. 
A    quart    of    boiled    pumpkin    pressed    through    a 
sie\'e,  four    whole  eggs,    two   cups  of  sugar,    a  table- 


208  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

spoon  of  syrup,  a  teaspoon  of  grated  ginger,  a  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg, 
half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  three  pints  of  milk.  Mix 
together,  fill  two  pie  plates  lined  with  crust  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes.     . 

689.  CREAM   PIE    No.    1. 

Smetanový  páj. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust  and  bake  it.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  the  filling.  Boil  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  sweet  cream  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Mix  smooth  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  with  half 
a  cup  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  boiling  cream.  When  thick, 
pour  into  the  baked  crust.  This  will  make  two  pies. 
When  done,  spread  with  two  whites  beaten  with  sugar, 
sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

690.  CREAM    PIE    No.    2. 

Smetanový  páj  na  jiný  způsob. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  crust.    Mix  a  cup  of  cream 
with  a  cup  of  sugar,  fold  in  three  whites  beaten  stiff, 
pour  all  into  the  crust  and  bake.     Prick    the    dough 
before  baking,  so  it  will  not  blister. 

691.  SOUR    CREAM   PIE, 

Páj  z  hijselé  smetany. 
Mix  a  cup  of  sour  cream  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  currants,  a  pinch  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  nutmeg,  half  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda, 
pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  crust,  and  bake. 
This  is  good,  but  it  will  not  keep  longer  than  one  day. 

692.   MINCE    PIE. 

Makový  páj. 
Boil  three  pounds  of  nice  lean  beef,  chop  and 
season  it  with  salt.  Add  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  three  nut- 
megs grated,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  chopped  suet,  eighf 
large  tart  apples  chopped  fine,  a  pint  of  brandy,  a  cup 


PUFFS.  209 

of  sugar  and  a  i)iiit  of  cider.  Mix  all  together,  and 
heat  thorongldy  (it  must  not  boil).  When  partially 
cooled,  i^lace  in  stone  or  glass  jars  for  future  use.  Use 
five  or  six  tablespoons  of  this  for  one  pie. 

693.    TYROLESE   PIE. 

Tyrolský  páj. 
Rub  a  piece  of  compressed  yeast  with  three  table- 
spoons of  cream  and  let  it  rise.  When  foamy  add  it 
to  the  following  batter:  a  cup  of  flour,  one  egg,  a  pinch 
of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Beat  thoroughly  and  let  it  rise  in  a  place 
that  is  not  too  wann.  Mix  together  a  cup  of  flour 
with  half  a  cup  of  butter,  knead  it  into  a  ball  and  place 
on  ice  for  ten  minutes.  Then  roll  out  each  dough,  place 
the  butter  paste  over  the  other,  fold  over,  roll  and 
repeat  three  times.  Finally  roll  out  the  dough  very 
thin  and  cut  in  halves.  Place  one  half  in  a  pan.  Peel 
and  slice  thin  six  large  tart  apples,  spread  the  dough 
in  the  pan  with  them,  sprinkle  with  a  fourth  of  a 
cup  of  blanched  and  chopped  almonds,  sugar,  cinnamon 
and  seedless  raisins.  Cover  with  the  other  half,  pinch- 
ing the  edges  together.  Bnish  with  a  beaten  egg,  let 
it  rise  a  bit,  and  bake  slowly  about  an  hour. 

Puffs.— Svítky. 

694.    FARINA   PUFF   No.    1. 

Ki'upicmj  sviieh. 

Beat  two  whites  stiff,  add  two  beaten  yolks,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste.  Now  add 
slowly  and  carefully  enough  farina  to  form  a  batter 
as  for  pancakes.  Butter  a  pie  plate,  pour  the  batter 
into  it,  and  bake  quickly.  When  done,  cut  into  squares, 
put  these  in  boiling  milk  and  let  them  boil  a  moment 
or  two.     Serve  with  the  milk. 

Cook  Book  14 


210  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

695.    FARINA   PUFF   No.   2. 

Krupičný  svitek  na  jiný  způsob. 

Beat  six  eggs,  add  salt  to  taste,  a  cup  of  farina, 
pour  the  batter  into  a  buttered'  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  This  is  also  cut  into  squares  and  placed  in  boil- 
ing milk. 

696.    WHEAT   FLOUR    PUFF. 
Moučný   svítek. 

Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  six  eggs, 
four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
three  tablespoons  of  cream,  salt  to  taste  and  mix  to- 
gether. Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  so  it  be  half  full 
and  bake  slowly.  When  done,  take  the  pan  out,  gash 
the  puff  in  several  places  with  a  knife,  pour  cold  milk 
over  it  and  when  this  has  been  absorbed,  pour  over  it 
more  milk,  this  time  sweetened  and  flavored  with  va- 
nilla. When  thoroughly  soaked,  drain  off  the  surplus, 
cut  into  squares,  turn  into  a  dish,  pour  over  it  warm 
wine  sauce  and  serve.  This  should  be  eaten  immedately, 
lest  it  falls. 

697.    WHEAT   FLOUR    PUFF    WITH    CALVES' 

BRAINS. 

Moučný  svitek  s  mozečkem. 
Melt  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  three  heap- 
ing tablespoons  of  flour;  when  it  bubbles,  add  slowly 
two  cups  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly,  and  then 
boil  until  smooth  and  thick.  Cool,  add  six  yolks,  beat- 
ing them  in  thoroughly,  salt  to  taste,  and  finally  fold 
in  three  whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan 
three  parts  of  the  batter,  saving  the  fourth  for  later 
use,  and  bake.  In  the  meantime  parboil  one  and  a  half 
calves'  brains  in  salted  water,  trim  out  the  undesirable 
portions,  slice,  stew  with  a  bit  of  butter,  minced  pars- 
ley, minced  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Slice  the  baked 
puff  in  three  parts  or  layers.  Cover  one  piece  with 
the  brains,  place  over  it  the  second  piece,  cover  that 
with    brains,    place    over  it  the  third    piece.     Spread 


PUFFS.  211 

the  remaining  fourth  part  of  the  raw  batter  over  the 
top,  place  the  baking  dish  or  pan  into  another  pan 
containing  boiling  water,  and  bake  thus  forty-five 
minutes. 

698.  BREAD  PUFF. 
Svítek  žemličkový. 
Grate  the  crust  off  of  half  a  loaf  of  bread  and 
soak  the  rest  in  two  cups  of  cream.  Cream  four  table- 
spoons of  butter  with  three  yolks,  add  the  soaked 
bread,  salt  to  taste,  fold  in  carefully  the  three  whites 
beaten  stiff,  and  finally  the  grated  crust.  Butter  a 
pan  or  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  pour 
in  the  mixture  about  an  inch  thick  and  bake. 

699.    CALF'S    LIVER    PUFF. 

Svítek  z  telecích  jater. 
Wash  half  a  pound  of  calf's  liver,  grate  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Melt  three  or  four  tablespoons  of 
beef  marrow,  press  through  a  sieve  and  cream  it,  then 
add  three  yolks,  one  at  the  time,  ten  tablespoons  of 
bread  moistened  with  milk,  the  liver,  and  mix  together 
thoroughly,  adding  also  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind, 
pepper  and  salt.  Finally  add  three  whites  beaten 
stiff.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  pour  in  the  batter  and  bake  slowly  one  hour. 

700.    VEAL   PUFF. 

Svítek  z  telecího  masa. 
Mince  fine  a  pound  of  veal,  a  piece  of  leaf  lard, 
a  bit  of  lemon  rind,  and  slice  of  bread  soaked  in  milk 
and  squeezed  dry.  Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
add  four  eggs,  then  the  mixture,  two  tablespoons  of 
cream,  salt,  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  grated  bread 
crumbs,  and  mix  together  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered baking  dish. 

701.    DRIED    MUSHROOMS    PUFF. 

Svítek  ze  sušených  hub. 
Wash  in  cold  water  two  cups  of  dried  mushrooms, 
boil  them  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain  and 


212  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

chop  fine.  Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  four 
eggs,  the  minced  mushrooms,  two  slices  of  bread  grated 
and  soaked  in  milk,  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  pinch 
of  caraway  seed,  mace,  salt  and  mix  together.  Put  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  lined  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bake.    Garnish  with  spinach,  lentils  or  other  vegetables. 

702.    EGG  PUFF. 

Svítek  z  vajec. 
Boil  hard 'ten  eggs  and  mince  them  fine.  Cream 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  five  yolks,  mix  well, 
add  two  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  milk  and  then 
creamed  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  mace,  several 
tablespoons  of  cream,  salt,  the  minced  eggs,  mix  to- 
gether well,  then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  and  pour 
all  into  a  buttered  baking  dish. 

703.    VANILLA    PUFF. 

Moučný  svítek  s  vanilkou. 
Mix  together  five  beaten  yolks,  two  teaspoons  of 
sugar,  two  cups  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough 
flour  to  form  batter  as  for  i^ancakes,  finally  fold  in 
the  five  whites  beaten  stiff.  Heat  a  piece  of  butter  in 
a  pan,  pour  the  mixture  into  it  and  bake  in  the  oven. 
Boil  a  piece  of  vanilla  bean  in  two  cups  of  cream  with 
sugar  to  taste,  and  place  tlie  baked  puff,  cut  into 
squares,  in  same.  Or  you  may  make  a  custard,  adding 
five  yolks  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  the  cream,  letting 
it   simmer  until   thick. 

Puffed  Puddings. — Nákypy. 

Bohemian  puddings  are  somewhat  different  than 
American  or  Englisli  ]juddings,  that  is  they  are  all 
lighter  and  may  be  called  puffed  puddings.  To  make 
tliese  successfully,  the  cook  must  remember  the  follow- 
ing: the  whites  must  be  beaten  very  stiff  and  must  be 


PUFFED  PUDDINGS.  213 

folded  into  the  batter  very  carefully.  The  baking  dish 
must  be  shallow,  in  order  that  the  oven  heat  permeates 
evenly.  The  dish  should  be  well  buttered  and  dusted 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  it  must  be  only  half  filled  with 
batter.  Finally,  the  cook  must  time  herself  so  that 
the  pudding  is  eaten  immediately  after  being  taken 
out  of  the  oven. 

704.  FARINA  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Krupicnij  nákyp. 
Make  a  thick  porridge  of  one  quart  of  milk  and  a 
cup  and  a  quarter  of  farina  (half  a  pound).  Cream 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  graduall}^  six  yolks, 
then  the  boiled  and  cooled  porridge,  six  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  mix  together, 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  finally  fold  in  carefully  the  six 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  dish  dusted 
with  crumbs,  sprinkle  Avith  sugar,  and  bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  fairly  hot  oven.  You  may  use  bread 
crumbs,  doughdrops  or  noodles  boiled  in  milk,  instead 
of  farina. 

705.  FRENCH  ROLL  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Žemlový  nal'ijp. 
Pare  the  crust  from  four  rolls,  soak  them  in 
milk,  and  mix  until  it  forms  a  thick  mush.  Then  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  blanched 
almonds  pounded  to  a  paste,  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind, 
eight  yolks  and  a  dash  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  fold 
in  the  eight  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  bake  as  directed 
half  an  hour. 

706.    RICE    PUFFED    PUDDING    No.    1. 

Bijžovij  nákyp. 
Boil  a  cup  of  carefully  picked  and  washed  rice  in 
milk  or  cream  until  thick,  then  cool.  When  cool,  add 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  eight  yolks,  half  a  cu]j  of 
sugar,  vanilla  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon  rind 
and  a  dash  of  salt.    Cream  all  together  fifteen  minutes, 


214  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

then  fold  in  carefully  the  eight  whites  beaten  stiff, 
pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
ÍDake  forty-five  minutes,  dust  again  with  sugar  and 
serve.  Sago  puffed  pudding  is  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

707.  RICE    PUFFED    PUDDING   No.    2. 

Rýžový  nákyp  na  jiný  způsol).  ^ 

Wash  a  cup  of  rice,  put  it  in  boiling  water  and 
boil  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  let  stand  uncovered  a 
while.  Then  add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  stir- 
ring it  in  with  a  fork,  a  dash  of  salt,  and  a  cup  of  milk. 
Boil  slowly  half  an  hour,  until  the  rice  is  done.  Turn 
into  a  dish,  add  a  bit  of  grated  nutmeg,  two  table- 
spoons or  more  of  sugar,  four  beaten  yolks,  and  finally 
four  whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  dish 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  serve. 

708.  RICE    PUFFED    PUDDING   No.    3. 

Rýžový  nákyp  ještě  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Wash  a  cup  of  rice  in  hot  water,  then  pour  over 
it  boiling  milk  and  boil  until  half  done,  over  a  slow  fire. 
When  cool,  add  five  yolks  beaten  with  sugar  to  taste, 
a  pinch  of  grated  lemon  rind  and  a  dash  of  lemon  juice. 
Finally  add  the  five  whites  beaten  stiff  and  pour  into 
a  buttered  pan,  sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs.  Place 
this  in  another  dish  containing  hot  water,  cover,  place 
over  a  slow  fire  for  forty-five  minutes.  Then  place 
in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  in  order  that  the  top 
will  brown. 

709.    RICE   PUFFED   PUDDING  No.   4. 

Rýžový  nákyp  ještě  na  jiný  způsol). 
Boil  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  when 
done,  cool.  Fry  bread  crumbs  in  butter.  Beat  five 
eggs.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  witli  the  fried 
crumbs,  place  in  it  about  an  inch  of  the  rice,  sprea(^l 
with  beaten  eggs,  raisins,  sugar,  cinnamon  and  bits  of 


PUFFED  PUDDINGS.  215 

butter,  then  a  layer  of  rice  and  continue  until  you  have 
three  layers  of  rice.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

710.  CORNSTARCH  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Nákyp  z  hukiiřičné  škrobové  mouky. 
Boil  a  cup  of  milk.  Mix  smooth  one  and  a  half 
tablespoons  of  cornstarch  with  two  tablespoons  of  water 
and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk. 
When  thick  and  smooth,  take  from  the  stove.  When 
partially  cool,  fold  in  one  beaten  white,  and  fill  indivi- 
dual cups  with  the  mixture.  Make  a  sauce  as  follows: 
boil  a  quart  of  milk,  add  one  yolk  beaten  with  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  cold  milk,  stir 
constantly  and  when  thick  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla 
and  cool.  Turn  each  cup  of  pudding  on  a  plate,  pour 
the  custard  over  it  and  serve. 

711.  FRENCH  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Clilehový  nákyp. 
Peel  apples  and  slice  them  thin,  then  steam  until 
tender.  Put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  apples,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon, 
sugar,  seedless  raisins  and  chopped  blanched  almonds, 
follow  with  a  layer  of  crumbs  and  proceed  thus  until 
you  have  used  all.  Beat  three  whole  eggs  and  three 
yolks,  (leaving  aside  three  whites),  with  two  cups  of 
cream,  pour  over  the  pudding  and  bake  one  hour  in  a 
slow  oven.  When  done,  cover  with  the  three  whites 
beaten  stiff  and  put  back  in  the  oven  for  a  moment  or 
two. 

712.    BREAD    PUFFED    PUDDING   WITH    WINE. 

Clilehový  nákyp  s  vínem. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  four  yolks, 
one  at  the  time,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  each 
yolk.  Add  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  tablespoon 
or  two  of  grated  blanched  almonds  and  four  tablespoons 
of  bread  crumbs.  Fold  in  the  four  whites  beaten  very 
stiff,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake.    When  done, 


216  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK, 

turn  into  a  pndding  dish,  ponr    over  it  a  cnp  of  liot 
wine  properl}^  sweetened  and  serve. 

713.  CHOCOLATE  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Coholádový  nákyp. 

Moisten  three  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs  with 
milk,  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  and  boil  all  together,  stirring  constantly, 
tlien  cool.  Then  add  four  squares  of  grated  chocolate, 
a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  six  yolks  and  mix  together 
thoroughly,  adding  finally  the  six  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with 
crumbs,  bake  slowl}^,  turn  out,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  serve. 

714.    STRAWBERRY    PUFFED    PUDDING. 

JaJiodový  náhyp. 

Mash  and  put  through  a  sieve  a  quart  of  nice 
strawberries.  Melt  a  small  cup  of  sugar  in  a  bit  of 
water  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  brown.  Pour 
into  a  dish,  add  the  strawberries,  mix  together,  fold 
in  carefully  ten  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  stir  slowly, 
until  very  stiff.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  the  mix- 
ture into  it,  heaping  it  up,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  bake  slowly.  When  it  begins  to  crack,  it  is 
done.     Raspberry  pudding   is  prepared  this  way  also. 

715.  POPPY  SEED  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Malcovy   nákyp. 

Pound  or  grind  fine  four  tablespoons  of  poppy 
seed,  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
of  almond  paste,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  seven 
cloves  powdered,  five  yolks,  and  cream  or  beat  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  five  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  pour 
into  a  dish  that  has  been  buttered  and  sprinkled  with 
crumbs.     Steam  one  hour.     Serve  with  chocolate  sauce. 


PUFFED  PUDDINGS.  217 

716.  CHERRY  PUFFED  PUDDING. 

Třcšíiovíj  nal'ijp. 
Soak  six  slices  of  bread  in  boiling  milk,  having- 
cut  away  the  crust.  Place  in  a  pan  with  three  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter  and  mix  until  smooth.  Take 
it  away  from  the  fire,  add  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind, 
three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  when  cool,  add  six  yolks 
and  mix  together.  Pit  a  pound  of  cherries,  stew  them  a 
bit  with  sugar  and  wine,  drain  well  and  add  to  the  rest, 
mixing  together.  Finally  fold  in  six  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Butter  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  pour 
in  the  batter  and  steam  forty-five  minutes.  Serve  with 
cherry  sauce. 

717.  CREAM   PUFFED    PUDDING. 

Smetanový  nákyp. 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  a  fourth  of 
a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste,  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  eight  yolks,  a  cup  of  thick  sour  cream, 
the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  cream  all  together 
at  least  fifteen  minutes,  then  fold  in  eight  whites  beaten 
stiff.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish.  When  done,  turn  out, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

718.  PRUNE    PUFFED    PUDDING. 

Švestkový  nakyp. 

Cream  six  yolks  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  then 
add  a  few  grated  blanched  almonds,  the  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Have  ready  half  a 
pound  of  boiled  and  stoned  prunes,  saving  the  liquor  or 
juice  from  these  and  pouring  same  over  the  crumbs  of 
four  slices  of  bread.  Chop  the  prunes  fine,  mix  with  the 
bread  crumbs  and  add  to  the  first  mentioned  mixture. 
Fold  in  six  whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
dish  and  steam  one  hour,  that  is,  place  the  pudding  in 
another  dish  containing  hot  water,  cover  well,  and 
place  in  the  oven.  When  done,  turn  out,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  rum. 


218  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Ordinary  Baked  Puddings. 
Pečené  puddingy. 

719.  PRUNE    PUDDING. 

Švestkový   pudding. 

Beat  two  eggs,  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a 
cup  of  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder.  Pour  half  of  this  batter 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  boiled  and 
stoned  prunes,  sprinkle  witli  sugar  and  cinnamon, 
add  the  remaining  batter  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  When  fresh  peaches  are 
used  the  pudding  is  even  nicer. 

720.  APPLE    PUDDING. 

Jablkový  pudding. 
Butter  a  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  bread- 
crumbs, then  cover  with  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  these 
with  sugar  and  chopped  blanched  almonds,  then  add 
another  layer  of  apples  and  proceed  thus  until  the  dish 
is  half  full.  Beat  four  eggs  with  a  cup  of  sugar  half  an 
hour.  Then  fold  in  carefully  two  and  half  cups  of 
flour,  adding  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring  to  taste,  and 
pour  over  the  apples.     Bake  slowly  one  hour. 

721.  LEMON    PUDDING. 

Ciironový  pudding. 

Cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  a  cup  of  sugar, 
four  yolks,  a  quart  of  milk,  two  cups  of  bread 
crumbs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
stir  together  thoroughly.  Pour  into  a  buttered  dish 
and  bake  half  an  hour.  When  done,  spread  the  top  with 
four  whites  beaten  stiff  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  let  it  brown  in  the  oven  and 
serve. 


BAKED  PUDDINGS.  219 

722.  ORANGE    PUDDING. 

Pomerančový  pudding. 
Peel  and  slice  four  large  oranges,  sprinkle  with  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  let  them  stand  a  while.  Mix  smooth 
two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  with  cold  water,  add 
same  to  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  add  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  three  beaten  yolks  and  when  thick,  cool.  When 
cool,  pour  over  the  oranges,  which  should  be  in  a 
baking  dish.  Beat  stiff  three  whites  with  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  spread  them  over  the  top,  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

723.  FARINA    PUDDING. 

Krupičnij  pudding. 
Stir  four  tablespoons  of  farina  into  two  cups  of 
boiling  milk,  boil  about  two  minutes,  stirring  constan- 
tly, salt  and  cool.  Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
add  three  yolks,  stir  this  into  the  cooled  mush,  add 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  three  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Butter  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  sliced  apples,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  cover  with  a  layer  of 
of  mush.  Put  a  layer  of  apples  on  this  and  so  continue, 
the  top  layer  being  mush.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

724.  TAPIOCA   PUDDING. 

Tapiolvovij  pudding. 
Soak  over  night  half  a  cup  of  tapioca  in  two  cups 
of  water.  In  the  morning  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  boil  about  an  hour,  until  clear.  Sweeten  with  two 
tablespoons  Df  sugar.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  place  in  it  a 
layer  of  tapioca,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  apples  or  pine- 
apple or  peaches,  a  layer  of  tapioca,  and  continue  until 
all  is  used.  Bake  half  an  hour.  This  is  served  cold 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

725.  POTATO    PUDDING. 

Bra m b o ro  vfj  pu dding . 
Peel  and   boil  five   or  six  medium-sized    potatoes. 
When  done,  press  througli  a  sieve.    In    the    meantime 


220  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN   COOK  BOOK. 

heat  a  cup  of  milk  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add 
two  yolks  to  the  potatoes,  salt,  pepper,  the  hot  milk 
and  butter,  and  two  whites  beaten  stiff.  Mix  together, 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.     Serve  immediately,  or  it  will  fall. 

726.  MILLET    PUDDING. 

J  cihelný  pudding. 
Wash  millet  in  tepid  water,  then  boil  it  in  milk, 
add  sugar  and  grated  lemon  rind  to  taste  and  turn  into 
a  buttered  pan.  Pour  beaten  eggs  over  the  top,  a  bit  of 
cream,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.  You  may  add  sliced  apples  or  boiled  and  stoned 
dried  prunes  to  the  pudding,  if  you  wish. 

727.  CHERRY    PUDDING. 

Třešňový  pudding.  (Buhlaniria  s  višněmi). 
Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  four  yolks 
and  two  whole  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and 
vanilla  to  taste.  Mix  together,  then  add  two  cups  of 
flour,  a  cup  of  cream,  a  dash  of  salt,  and  beat  well. 
Pour  half  the  batter  into  a  buttered  pan,  cover  with 
juicy  pitted  cherries,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  then  pour 
in  the  rest  of  the  batter.  Bake  slowly  one  hour.  The 
oven  should  be  hot  at  first,  then  slower. 

728.    BROWN    BETTY. 

Žemlová  háha. 
Cut  six  slices  of  bread  in  thin  w^afers.  Beat  three 
eggs  with  a  quart  of  milk,  adding  a  dash'  of  salt,  and 
pour  it  over  the  bread.  Butter  a  pan,  place  a  layer  of 
bread  in  it,  then  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  peeled  apples, 
sprinkle  with  raisins,  sugar  and  cinnamon,  then  a  layer 
of  bread  and  proceed  until  all  is  used.  Beat  two  eggs 
with  a  cup  of  cream,  pour  over  the  betty,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake. 


BOILED  PUDDINGS.  221 

Boiled  Puddings.— Vařené  puddingy. 

Puddings  are  boiled  in  a  pudding  cloth  or  steamed. 
When  steaming  them,  be  sure  that  all  parts  of  the 
steamer  fit  well,  and  that  you  have  enough  water,  add- 
ing boiling  water  if  necessary.  Before  serving,  place 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  moments,  to  set  it.  If  boiling 
in  a  cloth,  butter  and  flour  the  cloth  well,  place  the 
batter  in  it,  tie  Avitli  a  strong  string,  but  not  too  tight. 
You  must  allow  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Put  the 
bag  in  a  large  kettle  containing  enough  boiling  water 
so  that  the  pudding  has  plenty  of  room,  adding  more 
water  if  necessary. 

729.    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Hrozinkový  pudding. 
Chop  fine  a  cup  of  suet,  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  cup 
of  seedless  raisins,  a  cup  of  cleaned  currants,  a  cup 
of  chopped  citron,  a  cup  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
bread  crumbs,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  brandy, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  ground  allspice  and  the  same  of  cloves, 
a  cup  of  milk  to  which  has  been  added  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Place  in  a  floured  pudding  bag,  tie  loosely  and  boil  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours. 

730.    ECONOMICAL   PUDDING. 

Dohry  a  laciný  pudding. 
Half  a  cup  of  syrup,  half  a  cup  of  hot  water  to 
which  has  been  added  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  half 
a  cup  of  large  seedless  raisins  minced  fine,  one  beaten 
egg  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour.  Mix  together  well, 
place  in  a  floured  pudding  bag,  tie  loosely  and  boil 
one  hour.  Make  a  sauce  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup 
of  water,  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of 
currant  jelly,   boiled  together  five  minutes. 


222  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

731.    COTTAGE    CHEESE    PUDDING. 

Tvarohový  pudding. 
Cream  smooth  a  pound  of  cottage  cheese,  add 
four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  cup  of  farina,  a 
dash  of  salt,  and  cream  together  thirty  minutes.  Then 
butter  a  pudding  cloth,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  put  in  the 
mixture,  tie  loosely,  and  boil  one  hour.  Serve  sprinkled 
with  bread  crumbs  and  melted  butter. 

Fritters,    Fritures,   Toast,  Etc. 
Smaženky,  smažence,  topinky,  atd. 

732.  PLAIN    FRITTERS. 

Jednoduché  smaženky. 
Beat  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add 
a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  batter  thinner  than  for  pancakes.  Beat  the 
batter  until  smooth.  Have  a  liberal  supply  of  smoking 
fat  in  a  kettle.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  baking  powder 
to  the  batter,  stir  thoroughly,  and  drop  by  the  tea- 
spoonful  into  the  hot  fat.  When  brown  on  one  side, 
turn  and  brown  on  the  other,  take  out  with  a  skimmer 
and  serve  hot.  Do  not  prick  with  a  fork,  the  steam 
escapes  and  they  become  soggy. 

733.  APPLE    FRITTERS. 

Jablkové  smaženky. 
Peel  several  nice  apples,  slice  them  about  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  take  out  the  seeds,  place  the  sliced 
apples  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  brandy  and  powdered 
sugar  and  let  them  stand  thus  half  an  hour.  Or  you 
may  dip  freshly  sliced  apples  in  batter,  omitting  the 
rum  etc.  Beat  two  eggs  with  a  teaspoon  of  melted 
butter,  a  dash  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  very 
thin  batter.  Dip  the  apples  in  this,  fry  in  hot  lard, 
sjjrinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  or  sugar  only  and 
serve. 


TRITTERS,  FRITURES,  TOAST,  ETC.  223 

734.    ORANGE    AND    OTHER   FRITTERS. 

Pomerančové  a  jiné  smažeiiky. 
Peel  and  quarter  oranges,  take  out  the  seeds, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  dip  in  fritter  batter  and  fry.  Peel 
and  cut  bananas  into  small  pieces,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  lemon  juice,  dip  in  batter  and  fry.  Apricots  and 
peaches  are  peeled,  halved  and  sprinkled  with  sugar. 
Boiled  pruned  are  stoned,  the  cavity  filled  with  an 
almond  or  nut,  then  dipped  in  batter  and  fried.  All 
fritters  should  be  served  hot,  thoroughly  sprinkled 
with  sugar. 

735.  PLAIN   FRITURE. 

Jednoduchý  smaženec. 
Beat  together  six  yolks,  two  teaspoons  of  sugar, 
four  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  cup  of 
milk.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  fold  into  the  batter. 
Heat  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  shallow  pan,  pour 
in  the  batter,  when  fried  on  one  side,  turn  carefully 
and  stir  somewhat  as  you  would  when  making  scram- 
bled eggs,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve. 

736.  CRUMB    FRITURE. 

Zemličkový  smaženec. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  having  trimmed  off  the 
crust.  Beat  three  eggs  with  two  cups  of  milk,  add  a 
dash  of  salt  and  pour  over  the  bread,  allowing  it  to 
soak  thoroughly.  Melt  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  a  pan,  pour  in  the  soaked  bread  and  let  it 
fry  a  light  brown  on  the  under  side,  then  stir  and  fluff 
with  a  spoon,  and  fry  a  bit  longer.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon  and  serve. 

737.    APPLE   FRITURE. 

Jablkový  smaženec. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  twelve  nice  apples.     Butter  a 

baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  place  in  it  a 

layer  of  the  sliced  apples  about  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle 

with  sugar    and  raisins,    then  add  a  layer  of  crumbs 


224  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

and  so  continue  nntil  all  is  used,  the  last  layer  being 
l)read  ernmbs,  dotted  with  l)utter.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  basting  several  times  with  white  wine,  a  cup  in 
all.    When  done,  turn,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve. 

738.    FARINA    FRITURE. 

Krupičný  smaženec. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  in  one  quart  of 
milk,  add  a  piece  of  good  butter,  a  dash  of  salt  and  a 
cup  of  farina.  Stir  occasionally  until  it  thickens. 
Wlien  partially  cool,  beat  in  six  whole  eggs  and  a 
piece  of  l)utter.  Melt  three  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a 
pan,  pour  in  the  farina  mush,  cover  and  fry  until  the 
under  side  is  light  brown,  then  turn,  stir  or  scramble, 
let  it  a  fry  a  bit  longer,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve. 

739.    RICE    FRITURE. 

Rýžový  smaženec. 
Wash  in  several  waters  (hot)  a  cup  of  rice,  boil 
it  in  a  quart  of  milk,  adding  two  tablespoons  of  sugar 
and  a  dash  of  salt.  When  done  and  partially  cool,  beat 
in  four  eggs  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Melt  four  table- 
spoons of  l)utter  in  a  pan,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
proceed  as   directed   in   the  preceding  recipe. 

•^      740.    CHERRY    CRUSTS. 

Smažené  žemličky  s  třešněmi. 
Pare  the  crust  from  buns,  cut  off  the  tops  and 
dig  out  the  inside,  making  a  cavity  in  each.  Then  fr}^ 
them  in  hot  butter.  Stew  pitted  cherries  with  sugar 
and  a  bit  of  orange  rind.  Fill  the  cavities  with  this, 
cover  with  the  tops,  arrange  in  a  baking  dish,  pour 
red  wine  over  them  and  bake  in  the  oven.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  serve.  You  may  use  other  fruit  or 
marmeládě  for  the  filling. 

741.    FRIED    APPLE    BALLS. 

Jablkové  hiedlíčhj  v   červeném  vině. 
Peel  and  cut  tart  apples  into  dice,  enough  to  fill 
a  plate.    Mix    with    an    equal    amount    of    cracker  or 


TOAST.  225 

bread  crumbs,  the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  four 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  dash  of  cinnamon.  Finally 
fold  in  carefully  four  whites  beaten  stiff.  Form  small 
balls,  the  size  of  a  very  small  apple,  dip  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Boil  one  quart  of  red  wine 
with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  bit  of  lemon  rind  and  a 
piece  of  whole  cinnamon.  Place  the  fried  balls  in  this 
for  two  or  three  moments,  drain,  arrange  on  a  plate 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered   sugar. 

742.    PLAIN    TOAST. 

Jednoduché  topMy. 
Use  bread  two  or  three  days  old,  slice  and  dry 
brown  in  the  oven,  or  on  a  toaster,  on  both  sides.  Butter 
while  hot,  or  dip  in  hot  buttered  water  for  a  moment, 
and  place  on  each  piece  a  fried  or  poached  o^gg,  minced 
ham,  left-over  minced  meat,  or  whatever  you  intend 
to  serve  on  toast. 

743.  MILK   TOAST   No.   1. 

Topinky  v  mléce. 
Prepare  plain  toast.  Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  thicken  it 
with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  a  bit  of 
cold  milk,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  and 
when  it  bubbles,  pour  over  toast  arranged  in  a  deep 
dish.  Serve  immediately,  before  the  toast  becomes 
soggy.  This  is  a  nice  breakfast  or  supper  dish  for 
children. 

744.  MILK   TOAST  No.   2. 

Topinlcy  v  mléce  na  jiný  způsob. 
Boil  two  cups  of  milk.  Melt  one  cup  of  butter. 
Dip  sliced  stale  bread,  one  slice  at  the  time,  in  the 
milk  and  when  properly  moistened,  arrange  on  a  plate, 
pour  over  it  the  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  poppy 
seed  ground  or  pounded  in  a  mortar  and  mixed  with 
sugar. 

Cook  Book  15 


226  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

745.    MILK   TOAST   No.   3. 

Topinlvjj  V  mléce  ješté  na  jiný  způsoh. 

Slice  and  cut  into  dice  bread,  rolls  or  buns,  place 
in  a  crock  and  moisten  with  hot  milk.  A  cup  of  milk 
will  do  for  a  galon  crockful.  Cover  and  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Turn  into  a  dish,  pour  melted 
butter  over  it  and  sprinkle  with  po]3py  seed  mixed  with 
sugar. 

746.    DIPPED    TOAST. 

Topinky   máčené. 

Slice  stale  bread,  dip  each  slice  lightly  in  milk 
(one  side  only)  and  arrange  in  a  baking  pan.  Mix 
sugar  with  cinnamon  or  grated  orange  or  lemon  rind, 
sprinkle  over  the  bread  and  toa"Sl  in  a  slow  oven.  This 
is  nice  served  with  coffee  or  tea. 

747.    PRESSBURG    TOAST. 

Sucluiry   prešpurské. 

Mix  smooth  a  piece  of  compressed  yeast  with  two 
cups  of  tepid  milk,  beat  in  enough  flour  to  make  a 
medium-thick  batter  and  let  it  rise.  If  dry  yeast  is 
used,  the  batter  must  be  prepared  the  evening  before. 
When  the  batter  is  light,  beat  in,  one  at  41ie  time,  eight 
yolks,  then  add  ten  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  grated 
rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Knead 
the  dough  well,  but  do  not  add  much  more  flour.  Roll, 
place  in  a  baking  pan  about  8  x  14  inches,  and  when 
the  dough  has  risen  so  it  fills  the  pan  three  fourths 
full,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cold,  cut  in  slices 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  spread  both  sides  with 
icing  made  of  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  almonds  or  peanuts  mixed  with  bread  crumbs 
and  sugar,  arrange  in  a  pan  and  toast  a  light  brown 
in  a  slow  oven.  These  will  keep  a  long  time,  if  put 
away  in  a  dry  place. 


YEAST.  227 

748.  FRENCH  TOAST  WITH  WINE. 

Vinné  řízky. 
Mix  together  a  liandful  of  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds,  a  cuj)  of  bread,  crumbs,  a  dash  of  lemon  or 
orange  rind  grated,  a  dash  of  cinnamon,  two  yolks  and 
finally  two  whites  beaten  stiff.  Spread  this  over  four- 
teen or  sixteen  slices  of  bread,  on  one  side.  Fry  in  hot 
fat,  the  spread  side  down,  turn  and  fry  the  other  side 
a  light  brown,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  moisten  with  wine 
and  serve. 

749.    FRENCH    TOAST. 

Osmažený  cldcl). 
For  eight  or  ten  slices  of  bread  beat  three  eggs 
with  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  dash  of  salt.  Melt  four 
tablespoons  of  lard  and  when  smoking  hot,  dip  the 
bread  in  the  eggs  and  fry  a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 
Serve  with  jam,  honey  or  syrup. 

750.    SANDWICHES. 

Sandvlce  cili  obložený  cJileha. 
A  sandwich  consists  of*two  very  thin  slices  of 
bread,  with  a  thin  slice  of  meat,  cheese  or  various 
chopped  mixtures  spread  between  them.  If  buttering 
very  thin  slices  of  bread  is  difficult,  butter  before 
slicing.  The  daintiest  and  most  appetizing  sandwiches 
are  those  containing  a  rather  moist  filling,  such  as 
minced  meat,  eggs,  etc,  moistened  with  dressing,  but 
it  must  not  be  too  moist,  lest  the  bread  become  soggy. 

Yeast  and  Bread. — Kvasnice  a  chleba. 

751.    DRY    HOP    YEAST    No.    1. 

8 licit c  domácí  l-vasnice. 
This  is  best  when  made  in  warm  weather,  as  it 
dries  quicker.  Pour  a  quart  of  water  over  one  fourth 
of  a  i)ackage  of  lio])s  and  simmer  about  fifteen  minutes, 
tlien  cool.  Strain  and  add  to  the  water  enough  white 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.    Then  add  dry  yeast  dis- 


228  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

solved  in  tepid  water  or  home  made  liquid  yeast  and 
beat  well.  If  you  wish  more  yeast,  you  may  add 
warm  water.  After  this  has  fermented  thoroughly, 
stir  a  bit  and  let  it  rise  again.  Then  stir  in  enough 
cornmeal  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  thoroughly 
and  roll  thin,  cut  into  small  squares  and  lay  them 
on  a  board  sprinkled  with  corn  meal.  Dry  outside 
in  the  open,  turning  each  day,  and  taking  it  in  at  night. 
When  thoroughly  dry,  hang  in  a  dry  place  in  clean 
bags.     This  yeast  lasts  a  long  time  and  is  very  good. 

752.  DRY  HOP   YEAST   No.   2. 

Suché  domácí  kvasnice  na  jiný  způsob. 
Dissolve  a  piece  of  yeast  in  tepid  water  and  mix 
with  flour  to  make  a  sponge  as  for  bread.  Do  this  in 
the  afternoon.  In  the  morning  boil  three  peeled  and 
sliced  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of  water  about  ten 
minutes,  then  add  five  cents '  worth  of  dry  hops  and 
a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  boil  longer.  When  done, 
strain  into  cornmeal,  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  into 
a  stiff  dough.  When  cot)l,  add  the  raised  batter  pre- 
pared the  day  before,  let  it  rise  one  hour,  then  add 
enough  cormeal  to  make  the  dough  stiff  as  for  bread. 
Let  this  rise  again,  then  roll,  cut  into  squares  and  dry 
by  the  fire  or  in  the  sun.  One  piece  of  this  yeast  is 
sufficient  for  six  loaves  of  bread. 

753.  DRY   HOP   YEAST    No.    3. 

Suché  domácí  kvasnice  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Peel  and  boil  two  large  potatoes  in  a  quart  of 
water  with  two  ounces  of  hops.  Boil  half  an  hour, 
cool  and  strain.  Sift  corn  meal,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
sugar  and  the  hop  water,  making  a  stiff  dough.  While 
the  hops  are  boiling,  dissolve  one  cake  of  yeast  in 
tepid  water,  beat  smooth  with  enough  flour  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  let  it  rise  and  then  add  it  to  the  dough.  Let 
this  rise,  then  knead  on  the  board  with  corn  meal,  until 
the  dough  is  very  stiff.   Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into 


YEAST.  229 

squares  and  dry  in  a  shady  place,  turning  daily.  When 
thoroughly  dry  hang  in  a  dry  place  in  clean  bags. 

754.  BUTTERMILK    YEAST. 

Kvasnice  z  podmásU. 
Dissolve  three  cakes  of  dry  yeast  in  a  cup  of  tepid 
potato  water.  Heat  two  quarts  of  buttermilk,  add 
enough  cornmeal  to  form  a  stiff  batter  and  boil  thor- 
oughly, stirring  occasionally.  When  done,  turn  into 
another  dish,  cool  and  when  cold,  pour  the  dissolved 
yeast  into  the  batter  and  let  the  mixture  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  enough  cornmeal  to  make 
the  dough  very  stiff,  roll  thin,  cut  into  squares  and 
dry. 

755.  HOME  MADE    YEAST. 

Domácí  Icvasnice. 
Add  six  large  peeled  and  grated  potatoes  to  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  a  moment  or  two, 
then  take  away  from  the  stove,  add  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar  and  when  it  has  cooled  so  that  it  is  tepid,  add 
a  pint  of  liquid  yeast,  or  two  cakes  of  dry  yeast  dis- 
solved in  tepid  water.  Mix  well.  After  standing  all 
day  in  a  warm  kitchen  the  yeast  is  ready  for  use.  One 
cup  of  this  yeast  will  be  enough  for  one  large  loaf  or 
more. 

756.    STARTER. 

liidlic  domácí  kvasnice. 
Boil  six  peeled  potatoes  in  a  gallon  of  water,  in 
the  evening.  Strain,  saving  the  water,  mash  the  pota- 
toes and  press  them  through  a  sieve.  When  the  pota- 
toes are  cool,  pour  over  them  the  water  in  which  they 
have  boiled,  add  one  piece  of  dry  yeast  or  one  piece 
of  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  tepid  water,  or  one 
cup  of  liquid  yeast,  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  salt, 
mix,  and  let  it  stand  until  morning.  In  the  morning 
pour  off  a  pint  of  this  yeast  for  future  use  and  use 
tlie  remainder  for  making  bread.  This  starter  is  used  in- 
stead of  the  regular  sponge,  that  is,  you  may  set  the 


230  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

dough  with  it  in  the  morning  when  you  want  to  bake. 
Put  a  pint  of  the  starter  in  a  Mason  jar  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place  for  future  use.  If  will  keep  two  weeks.  When 
ready  to  bake  bread  the  next  time,  boil  potatoes  and 
proceed  as  directed,  adding  the  starter  instead  of  yeast. 
If  you  do  not  make  enough  bread  to  use  a  gallon  of 
water,  use  less  potatoes,  etc. 

757.    WHEAT    BREAD    No.    1. 

Pšeničný   chléb. 

For  three  loaves  of  bread  use  one  cup  of  liquid 
yeast  or  one  cake  of  dry  yeast  (this  should  be 
soaked  half  an  hour  in  tepid  water).  Pour  the  liquid  or 
soaked  yeast  into  a  crock,  add  a  cup  of  tepid  water 
and  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  as  for 
pancakes.  Beat  w^ell  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
In  the  winter  the  batter  or  sponge  is  made  in  the 
afternoon  before  baking.  In  warm  weather  set  the 
sponge  in  the  evening  and  in  very  hot  weather  late 
in  the  evening.  If-  the  sponge  rises  too  quickly,  it 
sours  or  ferments.  When  this  occurs,  it  may  be  re- 
medied by  adding  a  pinch  of  baking  soda  moistened 
with  hot  water. 

In  the  morning  add  a  quart  of  tepid  water  to  the 
sponge,  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  One 
or  two  grated  potatoes  will  add  to  the  flavor  of  the 
bread.  Then  add  enough  flour  to  make  the  dough 
medium  stiff.  Beat  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  paddle, 
then  knead  on  the  board,  adding  flour,  until  the  dough 
does  not  stick.  Place  the  dough  in  the  crock  and  let 
it  rise  double  its  bulk.  The  time  for  this  varies  from 
one  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  depending  upon  the 
amount  of  yeast  and  the  atmosphere.  The  quicker 
the  dough  rises,  the  lighter  the  bread  will  be. 

When  the  dough  has  risen,  knead  again  about 
five  minutes  and  let  it  rise  once  more,  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Then  form  loaves  and  x>la<:*e  them  in  buttered 
l^ans,  letting  them  rise  double  their  bulk.     When  indi- 


BREAD.  231 

vidiial  bread  pans  are  not  used,  two  or  tliree  loaves 
may  be  formed  and  put  in  one  pan,  buttering  the  sides 
of  each  loaf,  so  that  they  may  be  easily  taken  apart 
after  they  are  done.  Rub  the  top  with  lard  and  bake. 
The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  The  proper  test 
is  when  the  heat  is  such  that  you  can  keep  your  hand 
in  while  quickly  counting  twenty.  After  the  bread  is 
in  the  oven,  the  heat  should  be  kept  even  for  forty- 
five  minutes,  then  it  may  be  lessened  until  the  bread 
is  done.  Bread,  like  cake,  is  done  when  it  has  shrunk 
from  the  sides  of  the  pan  and  is  a  nice  brown  color. 

758.    WHEAT    BREAD    No.    2. 

Fšeničnij  cliJéb  na  jiný  zpi'isoh. 
Make  a  sponge  with  a  pint  of  starter  described 
in  recipe  No.  756  and  let  is  rise  in  a  warm  place.  It 
should  be  ready  in  an  hour.  Add  enough  flour  to 
make  the  dough  medium  thick,  then  proceed  as  des- 
cribed in  the  preceding  recipe. 

759.  POTATO  SPONGE  BREAD. 

Chleh  s  hramhorouým  kvósl^eni. 
Peel  and  boil  six  large  potatoes,  then  drain, 
mash  and  pour  over  them  three  pints  of  tepid 
water  and  drain  through  a  colander.  Add  enough 
sifted  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter  and  then  add  a  cup 
of  liquid  yeast.  When  this  has  risen,  add  enough 
sifted  flour  to  make  a  medium  stiff  dough,  beat  well 
and  let  it  rise.  When  it  has  risen,  add  enough  flour 
to  make  a'  stiff  dough  and  let  it  rise  again.  When  it 
has  risen,  make  loaves  and  let  them  rise  once  more  in 
the  pans,  then  bake. 

760.    MILK   SPONGE    BREAD. 

Mléčný  cliléh. 
Mix  together  two  cups  of  boiling  water,  a  teaspoon 
of  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  fourth 
of  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda.  Allow  this  to  become 
tepid,  then  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  thick 
batter.  Beat  two  minutes,  then  set  the  vessel  in  another 


232  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

containing  warm  water,  but  not  too  hot,  so  the  batter 
would  not  be  injured.  Keep  at  even  heat  until  the 
batter  rises.  If  you  set  this  in  the  morning,  it  should 
be  ready  for  mixing  by  eleven  oclock.  Use  milk  in- 
stead of  water  when  mixing,  and  proceed  as  shown  in 
the  preceding  recipes,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  dough 
rise  too  much. 

761.    BROWN   BREAD. 

Hnědý  chleb. 
Mix  a  quart  of  corn  meal,  two  cups  of  rye  flour 
(sifted),  a  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  enough  sour 
milk  to  make  the  batter  thicker  than  for  pancakes, 
add  salt,  and  beat  well.  Pour  into  pans  and  bake  four 
hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

762.    BOSTON    BROWN    BREAD. 

Bostonský  Jmédý  cliléh. 
Mix  two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  rye  flour, 
half  a  cup  of  syrup,  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water  and  added  to  three  cups  of  sour 
milk,  salt  and  beat  thoroughly.  Place  in  a  round  tin 
(a  lard  bucket,  coffee  can  etc.)  and  steam  four  hours, 
then  place  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

763.    GRAHAM   BREAD. 

GrahamsJcý  chléb. 
Graham  bread  may  be  made  with  yeast,  the  same 
as  white  bread.  With  soda  it  is  made  as  follows:  mix 
together  two  cups  of  sweet  milk  with  nearly  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  molasses,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Beat  well,  add  a 
quart  of  Graham  flour,  beat  thoroughly  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

764.    RYE   BREAD   No.    1. 

Žitný  chléb. 
When   making   rye   bread,    it   is   best   to    leave    a 
piece  of    dough  from  one    baking  to  the    next,    about 


BREAD.  233 

two  tablespoons.  The  day  before  baking,  pour  about 
two  cups  of,  tepid  water  on  this  dough,  to  pro- 
perly moisten  it.  Stir  it  up  in  the  evening,  add  enough 
flour  to  make  batter  as  for  pancakes,  and  let  it  stand 
over  night  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  If  you  have  not 
a  piece  of  dough  to  begin  with,  dissolve  a  piece  of  dry 
or  compressed  yeast  in  two  cups  of  tepid  water  the 
evening  before  baking,  or  use  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast, 
add  enough  rye  flour  to  make  batter  somewhat  thicker 
than  for  pancakes,  beat  smooth,  add  a  pinch  of  fennel 
or  caraway  seed,  or  both,  and  let  the  batter  rise  over 
night  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  add  a  quart 
of  tepid  water  in  which  you  have  dissolved  a  fourth 
of  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  salt,  arid  enough  rye 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Beat  with  a  wooden 
paddle  until  the  dough  does  not  stick,  sprinkle  with 
flour,  cover  with  a  napkin  and  let  it  rise  half  an  hour. 
Then  knead  the  dough  on  the  board,  make  a  loaf  and 
let  it  rise  in  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  One  quart 
of  water  and  four  pounds  of  flour  will  make  one  loaf, 
but  as  flours  vary,  the  cook  must  use  her  experience 
to  guide  her  in  this  matter.  You  may  use  part  milk, 
whey  or  sour  milk,  —  the  bread  will  be  better  and' 
more  digestible. 

765.    RYE    BREAD    No.    2. 

Žitný  chléb  na  jiný  způsob. 

Boil  three  large  peeled  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of 
water  the  evening  before  baking.  When  boiled  until 
nearly  dissolved,  press  through  a  sieve,  and  if  the 
water  has  boiled  away,  add  enough  cold  water  to  make 
two  quarts,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  flour,  a  cake  of 
compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid  water,  beat  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  add 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  rye  flour  to  make  batter 
as  for  pancakes,  let  it  rise  half  an  hour.  Then  pour 
on  a  floured  board,  add    more  flour  and    knead  until 


234  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

tlie  dough  does  not  stick.  Place  in  tlie  bowl  and  let  it 
rise  fifteen  minntes.  Knead  again,  let  it  rise  a  short 
time,  then  form  loaves,  place  in  pans  and  when  they 
have  risen  once  their  bnlk,  bake. 

766.  CORN    BREAD    No.    1. 

KuhuHcnii  chléb. 
Mix  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  yolks,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoon  of  melted  lard,  two  cups  of  corn- 
meal,  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  beat  thoronghly  with  a  wooden  paddle.  Beat 
two  whites  and  fold  into  the  batter.  Ponr  into  a  but- 
tered pan  and  bake  a  light  brown.  You  may  add  two 
tablespoons  of 'cracklings  instead  of  the  lard. 

767.  CORN    BREAD    No.    2. 

Kukuřičný  chléb  na  jiný  způsob. 
Beat  together  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  tw^o  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter  or  lard,  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  white  flour, 
one  and  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  corn  meal,  a  liberal 
cup  of  sour  milk  to  which  you  have  added  a  teaspoon 
of  baking  soda.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  bake 
at  least  half  an  hour. 

768.  CORN    BREAD    No.    3. 

Kukuřičný  cJiléb  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Mix  together  a  quart  of  corn  meal,  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  three  pints  of  sweet  warm  milk,  a  teaspoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  eight 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Fold 
the  whites  in  last.     Bake  one  hour  in  a  medium  oven. 

769.  CORN    BREAD    No.    4. 

Kukuřičný  chléb  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Mix  together  one  beaten  egg,  a  tablespoon  of  lard, 
a  cup  of  corn  meal,  a  pinch  of  salt,  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  beat  smooth.    Add  a  cup  of  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk, then    add  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  milk    in    which 


BREAD.  235 

has  been  dissolved  a  teaspoon  of  baking    soda.     Pour 
into  a  warm  buttered  pan  and    bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

770.    STEAMED    CORN   BREAD. 

KuhuHčný   chJch   v    páře   připravený. 

Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  three  cups  of 
corn  meal,  stir  well  and  when  it  has  cooled,  add  one 
cup  of  white  flour,  a  cup  of  milk,  a  cup  of  molasses, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  salt  to  taste,  stir 
thoroughly  and  steam  three  hours. 

771.    TEA    RUSKS. 

Zemličky. 

In  the  evening  before  baking  warm  two  cups  of 
milk,  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  cake  of  compressed 
or  dry  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid  water,  or  half  a  cup  of 
liquid  yeast,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  as 
for  pancakes,  sprinkle  with  flour  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  one  beaten  yolk  and  two  whites  beaten  stiff, 
salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead 
until  it  does  not  stick,  and  let  it  rise.  When  it  has 
risen,  roll  three  fourths  of  an  ýicli  thick  and  cut  with 
a  biscuit  cutter.  Eub  each  with  lard,  fold  one  end 
over,  place  on  a  greased  pan  and  let  them  rise.  When 
light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  You 
may  make  rusks  with  bread  dough  also,  adding  to  same 
a  i)iece  of  butter  or  lard  and  sugar,  if  you  like. 

772.    BAKING    POWDER    BISCUITS. 

BisJcetij  s  prášivém. 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  'Work  in  a  table- 
spoon of  lard,  then  add  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  stir  but 
do  not  beat,  turn  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  about  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  ])ake  in  a 
buttered  pan  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Handle 
as  lightly  as  possible. 


236  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

773.    SODA   BISCUITS    No.    1. 

Biskety  sodové. 
Sift  one  quart  of  flour  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Work 
in  a  tablespoon  of  lard,  then  add  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  to  which  you  have  added 
a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  moistened  with  vinegar, 
and  mix  all  together.  Turn  the  dough  out  on  a  floured 
board  and  knead  until  smooth,  but  not  stiff.  Cut  with 
a  cutter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

774.    SODA   BISCUITS   No.   2. 

BisJcety  sodové  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Eub  four  cups  of  sifted  flour  with  a  tablespoon 
of  solid  lard  and  salt  to  taste.  Dissolve  a  teaspoon 
of  baking  soda  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  water,  pour  it 
into  two  cups  of  sour  milk  and  pour  this  on  the  flour, 
stirring  constantly.  If  necessary  add  flour  enough 
to  make  quite  a  stiff  dough,  then  roll  and  cut.  Bake 
twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

775.    RAISED    BISCUITS. 

Biskety  hynuté. 
Warm  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  when  it  is  tepid 
add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  When  light, 
pour  into  a  bowl,  add  salt  and  three  cups  or  more  of 
flour,  enough  to  make  dough  as  for  bread.  Beat  well, 
turn  on  a  floured  board,  knead  fifteen  minutes,  adding 
flour,  until  the  dough  does  not  stick.  Then  place  .back 
in  the  bowl  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  spot.  When 
risen  double  its  bulk,  knead  two  or  three  minutes,  roll 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  and  place  in  a  buttered  pan. 
Rub  with  butter,- let  them  rise  once  more  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven. 

776.    RAISED    POTATO    BISCUITS. 

Kynuté   hisl'ety   hranihorové.- 
Peel    and    boil    six    medium-sized    potatoes,    drain 
and  mash.    Add  two  cups  of  hot  milk,    two    heaping 


BREAD.  237 

tablespoons  of  butter  or  lard,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
the  same  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  beat  and  let  it 
cool.  When  cool,  add  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast  or  one 
cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid  water 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  beat  about 
five  minutes  until  it  does  not  stick,  cover,  stand  in  a 
warm  place  and  let  it  rise  three  hours,  then  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  knead  lightly  and  quickly 
fifteen  minutes,  then  roll  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut. 
Arrange  in  a  buttered  pan,  cover  and  stand  in  a  warm 
place.     When  light,  bake  in  a  hot. oven. 

777.      BOHEMIAN    BISCUITS    WITH    JAM. 

Vdolhy, 
Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  two  cups  of  tepid  milk, 
add  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  mace,  salt,  compressed  or 
dry  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid  milk  and  enough  white 
flour  to  make  dough  softer  than  for  dumplings.  Beat 
until  smooth,  let  it  rise,  turn  on  a  floured  board,  roll 
and  cut  rather  large  biscuits.  Let  these  rise,  then 
bake  on  both  sides,  or  fry  in  lard.  Spread  with  prune 
jam,  sprinkle  with  cottage  cheese  or  grated  marzipan, 
and  melted  butter  or  thick  sweet  cream.  _ 

778.    BREAD   STICKS. 

Chlebové  hůlčičky. 
For  these  you  must  have  the  regular  bread-stick 
form  or  pan,  called  "bread-stick  pan".  When  making 
bread,  take  a  piece  of  dough,  work  into  it  a  table- 
spoon of  lard  (to  one  pound  of  dough)  and  let  it  rise. 
Then  knead  lightly,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  roll 
these  into  slender  long  rolls  or  ''sticks".  Place  in 
the  buttered  bread-stick  pan,  let  them  rise  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
The  hot  oven  is  necessary,  because  the  bread-stick 
pan  is  iron  and  must  heat  quickly.  Cover  the  top  with 
paper.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  until  brown  and 
crisp. 


238  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

779.  VIENNA   ROLLS. 

Videtíshé  roliličhy. 

Beat  together  two  cups  of  tepid  milk,  two  yolks, 
half  a  cup  of  butter,  a  cake  of  compressed  or  dry  yeast 
dissolved  in  tepid  milk,  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make 
dough  as  for  dumplings.  Let  it  rise,  turn  on  a  floured 
board,  knead  medium  stiff,  roll  about  half  an  inch 
thick,  cut  into  squares,  cut  off  one  corner  of  each  and 
roll  up,  the  cut-off  part  inside.  Place  on  a  buttered 
pan,  shaping  each  into  a  crescent,  brush  with  beaten 
egg,  sprinkle  with,  poppy  seed  or  caraway  seed  and 
salt,  and  bake. 

780.  BUTTER   ROLLS. 

Máselné  rohlidh/. 

Dissolve  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  a  cup  of 
tepid  milk,  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter 
and  let  it  rise.  When  it  is  light,  add  one  beaten  egg 
and  two  yolks.  Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  add  it  to  the  batter,  mix  together 
with  a  fork  and  add  a  dash  of  salt.  Add  enough  flour 
to  make  rather  stiff  dough,  knead  and  stand  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  then  knead  lightly  and  make  rolls. 
Roll  the  dough  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  oblong- 
pieces,  about  four  by  six  inches,  roll  each  up,  pinching 
the  ends  down  well.  Arrange  in  a  buttered  pan,  shape 
each  in  a  crescent,  brush  with  melted  butter  and  let 
them  rise.  When  light,  brush  witli  beaten  egg  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 

781.    CABBAGE    ROLLS. 

ZclnU'y. 
Pick  over  and  wash  a  four-pound  liead  of  cabbage, 
mince  fine,  press  out  the  juice,  season  with  salt,  and 
stew  in  the  oven,  until  tender.  Blend  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  witli  enough  flour  to  thicken  it.  Add 
half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  then  the  stewed  cabbage,  a 
tablespoon  of  sugar  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  if  necessary 


BREAD.  239 

more  salt.  Prepare  dough  as  for  tarts  (see  recipe  786). 
When  the  dough  has  risen,  roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut 
into  squares,  place  a  tablespoon  of  the  cabbage  in  each 
and  roll  up,  pressing  the  edges  down  all  around  so  the 
cabbage  does  not  run  out.  Arrange  in  a  buttered  pan 
and  bake  about  half  an  hour.  ^  . 

782.    TWISTS. 

Hously.  *■ 

Prepare  the  dough  as  for  rolls.  When  light, 
divide  into  three  parts.  EoU  out  in  long  round  pieces, 
and.  braid  together  in  one  loaf.  Let  this  rise,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  with  poppy  seed  and  bake. 
You  may  sprinkle  with  caraway  seed  and  salt  instead 
of  the  poppy  seed,  if  you  wish. 

783.    MUFFINS. 

Boclíánl-y. 
Mix  together  a  quart  of  buttermilk,  two  beaten 
yolks,  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoon of  hot  water,  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a 
batter  thicker  than  for  pancakes;  finally  fold  in  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  the  batter  into 
heated  buttered  muffin  rings  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven. 

784.    CREAM   MUFFINS. 

Bochdnl-y  smetanové. 
Beat  together  two  cups  of  sweet  cream,  three 
yolks,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  enough  flour 
(adding  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  same)  to 
make  a  batter  somewhat  thicker  than  for  pancakes. 
Bake  as  directed  above. 

785.    HOE    CAKES. 

Plachy. 
Sift  a  pound  of  flour  on  the  board,  make  a  well 
in  the  middle,  pour    in  two  eggs,   six    tablespoons  of 
lard,  salt,  a  pinch  of  mace,  enough  milk  to  form  a  stiff 


240  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

dough,  mix  with  a  knife  and  then  knead  smooth.  Eoll 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  round  or  square,  make  several 
dents  in  each  with  the  dull  edge  of  a  knife,  arrange 
in  a  pan  and  bake  slowly. 

Raised  Tarts  and  Cakes. — Koláčky,  koláče 

a  buchty. 

m 
In    order    to    make    good    pastry,    especially    that 

composed  of  raised  dough,  the  cook  must  observe 
several  rules.  The  flour  should  be  of  good  quality, 
dry  and  warm,  the  butter,  eggs  and  yeast  must  be 
fresh.  When  setting  the  sponge,  the  milk  or  water 
must  be  tepid,  never  hot.  Compressed  yeast  seems  to 
give  more  satisfactory  results  than  dry  yeast.  Half 
an  ounce  of  fresh  compressed  yeast  is  about  right 
to  one  pound  of  flour.  However,  the  richer  the 
dough,  the  more  yeast  it  will  require.  In  order  to  be 
sure  that  the  yeast  is  fresh,  mix  it  with  several  table- 
spoons of  tepid  milk,  add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  two 
or  three  teaspoons  of  flour,  beat  and  set  in  a  warm 
(not  hot)  place.  If  it  begins  to  bubble  and  foam 
within  a  short  time,  the  yeast  is  good.  You  may  then 
mix  the  other  ingredients  together,  add  the  sponge, 
beat  very  thoroughly  until  the  dough  glistens  and 
does  not  stick,  then  set  again  in  a  warm  place.  The 
dough  must  be  right,  the  oven  must  be  right,  and  the 
baking  must  be  done  right.  Success  depends  on  all 
these  things,  not  on  any  one  of  them.  If  the  oven 
bakes  too  quickly  on  the  under  side,  set  the  pan  on  a 
tin  plate  or  iron  stand,  if  too  quickly  on  top,  cover 
with  a  paper. 

786.    BOHEMIAN    TARTS    No.    1. 

Koláčky. 
Cream  one  cup  of  butter,    add  four  to  six  yolks, 
one  at  the  time,  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved 


RAISED  TARTS.  241 

in  tepid  milk,  four  whites  beaten  stiff,  one  quart  of 
sweet  cream,  a  handful  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  a  dash  of  salt,  one  quart  of  sifted  flour,  and 
beat  imtil  the  dough  does  not  stick,  then  set  in  a  w^arm 
place.  When  it  has  risen  to  double  its  bulk,  take  out 
by  the  tablespoonful  on  a  floured  board,  roll  each  into 
a  ball,  then  roll  out  like  a  cooky,  about  half  an  inch 
thick,  arrange  in  a  pan,  brush  with  melted  butter,  spread 
with  fruit  jam,  cottage  cheese  or  other  filling  (see 
Jams,  Fillings,  etc.)  let  them  rise  again  in  the  pan 
and  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

787.  BOHEMIAN  TARTS  No.  2. 

Koláčky  na  jiný  způsob. 
Dissolve  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  half  a 
cup  of  tepid  milk  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  four 
tablespoons  of  flour.  Beat  well  and  place  in  a  warm 
spot.  Cream  a  cup  of  butter  in  a  crock,  add  two 
yolks,  one  at  the  time,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  a  dash  of  cinnamon.  When  the  sponge  has  risen, 
add  it  to  this  with  a  dash  of  salt,  beat,  then  add  two 
cups  of  warm  milk,  four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  or  more 
if  necessary,  beat  thorough^,  dust  with  flour  and  let 
it  rise.  When  it  has  doubled  its  bulk,  'flour  the  board, 
take  the  dough  out  by  tablespoonful,  roll  each  into  a 
ball,  then  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  or  press  out  with 
the  fingers,  in  the  form  of  a  cooky,  arrange  on  a 
buttered  tin  (not  too  close  together)  brush  each  with 
beaten  yolk  mixed  with  a  bit  of  milk,  spread  with  jam, 
poppy  seed  or  cottage  cheese,  let  them  rise  again  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
while  hot. 

788.  BOHEMIAN   TARTS   No.   3. 

Koláčhy  ještě  na  jiný  zpilsoh. 
Prepare    the    dough    as    shown    in    the    preceding 
recipe.  When  it  is  light,  roll  out  very  thin,  cut  in  squares, 
place  in  the  center  of  each  a  tablespoon  of  the  desired 

Cook  Book  16 


242  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

filling',  take  up  the  two  cross-corners  and  pinch 
together  over  the  center,  then  do  the  same  with 
the  other  two  corners,  arrange  on  a  bnttered  tin,  brush 
with  beaten  yolks,  sprinkle  with  chopped  blanched 
almonds,  or  butter,  flour  and  sugar  rubbed  together, 
let  them  rise  once  more  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

789.  PUFFDOUGH  TARTS. 

Kolclcl'ij  z   máselného   těsta. 

řleat  a  cup  of  cream,  when  tepid  add  one  tea- 
spoon of  sugar  and  one  and  a  half  cakes  of  compressed 
yeast,  mix  smooth  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
Mix  together  two  and  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of 
flour,  a  dash  of  salt,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  le- 
mon and  a  dash  of  mace.  Work  in  a  heaping  table- 
sjDoon  of  cold  butter,  add  four  yolks  and  the  fermented 
yeast,  beat  thoroughly.  If  necessary  add  flour,  for 
this  dough  must  be  rather  stiff.  Stand  in  a  rather 
cool,  (that  is,  not  very  warm),  place  to  rise.  Take 
a  cup  of  unsalted  butter.  If  salted,  wash  thoroughly 
in  cold  water,  dry  and  place  on  ice.  When  the  dough 
has  risen,  let  it  get  cool  and  roll  it  out  about  half  an 
inch  thick.  Then  roll  out  the  butter,  making  a  smaller 
piece  than  the'  dough,  so  that  when  you  place  the 
rolled  butter  on  the  rolled  dough,  there  will  be  an 
inch-wide  edge  of  dough  all  around.  Then  fold  over 
as  illustrated  in  the  recipe  for  making  puff  paste, 
(recipe  668).  With  a  rolling  pin  beat  the  folded  dough 
lightly,  roll  again,  fold,  beat  and  repeat  this  once  more, 
that  is  proceed  this  way  three  times  altogether.  Then 
roll  the  dough  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  squares, 
put  a  tablespoon  or  teaspoon  of  filling  on  each, 
(according  to  how  large  you  wish  to  have  the  tarts) 
pinch  the  corners  together  over  the  center,  arrange  on 
a  buttered  tin,  brush  with  beaten  yolk,  let  them  rise  to 
double  their  bulk  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar  while  hot. 


RAISED  TARTS.  243 

790.    BUTTER   TARTS. 

Krelil'e  holáčhy. 

Sift  a  quart  of  flour  on  the  bread  board,  sprinkle 
over  it  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  finely  chopped 
fresh  firm  butter,  work  the  butter  into  the  flour,  gather 
into  a  heap,  make  a  well  in  the  middle,  drop  into  it 
six  yolks,  half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  a  dash  of  salt,  mix  with  a  knife,  knead, 
roll,  fold,  roll  and  fold  again.  Dust  a  napkin  with 
flour,  wrap  the  folded  dough  in  it  and  place  on  ice 
for  half  an  hour.  Then  roll,  cut  into  round  or  square 
pieces,  spread  or  fill  with  jam  or  other  filling  (if  you 
make  them  square,  pinch  the  corners  together),  ar- 
range on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  rather  slowly.  Or 
you  may  roll  tlie  dough  out  half  an  inch  thick  in  one 
piece,  enough  to  fill  a  pie  plate,  cover  with  sliced 
apples,  quartered  fresh  peaches,  stoned  plums,  straw- 
berries,   cherries  etc.,  sprinkle  with    sugar  and  bake. 

791.    CARLSBAD    TARTS. 

KarlovarsJcé  l^oláčky. 

Cream  six  tablespoons  of  good  butter  with  eight 
yolks,  then  add  two  cups  of  flour,  four  heaping  table 
spoons  of  powdered  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  le- 
mon, a  cup  of  milk,  a  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid 
milk  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  salt,  beat  thor- 
oughly and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Line  a  pan 
with  waxed  or  buttered  paper,  dot  with  pieces  of 
dough  the  size  of  a  walnut,  spread  each  flat  with  a 
knife,  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cover  each  with  a 
thick  layer  of  whites  beaten  stiff,  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  place  in  the  center  of  each  a  candied 
cherry  or  other  fruit,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Do  not 
prepare  any  more  tarts  than  you  can  bake  at  one 
time.  If  you  spread  them  with  the  beaten  whites  and 
let  them  stand,  the  whites  will  become  watery. 


244  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

792.    YOLK    TARTS. 

Zloutkové  1'oláčhj. 
Dissolve  two  cakes  of  compressed  yeast  aud  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar  in  eight  tablespoons  of  tepid  cream, 
then  add  four  tablespoons  of  flour  to  make  a  thin 
batter  and  let  it  rise.  Cream  together  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  a  dash  of  mace.  Then  add  four  eggs,  one 
at  the  time,  beating  them  in  thoroughly,  then  add,  in 
the  same  manner,  four  yolks.  Now  add  the  raised 
batter  and  two  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  very  thor- 
oughly and  let  it  rise,  but  not  too  quickly.  When 
light,  roll  and  cut  thin  round  cakes,  place  on  a  buttered 
pan,  brush  with  beaten  yolk,  spread  with  jam^  let  them 
rise  once  more  and  bake. 

795.    LARGE    FRUIT    TARTS. 

Ovocné  holáče. 

Prepare  dough  as  given  in  the  preceding  recipe. 
Roll  about  half  an  inch  thick,  line  a  pie  plate  or  small 
pan  with  it,  cover  with  quartered  apples,  halved  pea- 
clies  or  plums,  whole  strawberries,  pitted  ciierries, 
etc.,  sprinkle  with  sugar  (you  may  mix  cinnamon 
with  the  sugar  for  apples),  let  the  cake  rise  once  more 
and  bake. 

794.    GERMAN    LARGE    TARTS. 
NeniecJi'e  Icoláče. 

Prepare  dough  as  for  Bohemian  fruit  tarts  (recipe 
786),  line  a  pie  plate  or  pan  with  the  dough  half  an 
inch  thick,  being  careful  to  have  the  edge  high,  prick 
with  a  fork,  brush  the  edges  with  beaten  yolks  and 
the  rest  of  the  dough  with  melted  butter,  vspread  with 
jam  or  cottage  cheese.  Cottage  cheese  filling  may  be 
ornamented  with  seedless  raisins;  jam  or  poppy  seed 
with  blanched  and  halved  almonds.  Or  you  may  cover 
a  strip  of  dough  with  cherries,  strawberries  or  otlier 
small  fruit,  leave  a  strip  bare  and  cover  another  strip, 
or  in  au}^  way  to  make  a  pretty  design. 


RAISED  CAKES.  245 

795.  HANOVER    LARGE    TARTS. 

Htmoversl'e  koláče. 
Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  three  yolks,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar,  Vanilla  flavoring,  a 
cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  a  dash  of  salt  and  two  cups 
of  flour,  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid 
milk,  or  dry  yeast  dissolved  in  warm  water,  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Butter  a  baking  tin,  spread  over  it  half 
the  dough,  cover  this  with  a  layer  of  filling  (jam,  poppy 
seed  or  cottage  cheese),  then  spread  over  this  the  rest 
of  the  dough,  press  the  edgeá*  together,  and  let  it  rise. 
Til  en  brush  the  top  with  a  beaten  yolk  and  bake. 

796.  STUFFED    RAISED    CAKES. 

Bii cliiicl'ij  nadi vane . 
Sift  into  a  deep  bowl  two  quarts  of  flour,  make 
a  well  in  the  middle,  pour  into  it  a  cup  of  melted  cool 
butter,  a  cup  of  sugar,  four  yolks  or  two  whole  eggs, 
a  dash  of  mace,  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  dash  of 
salt,  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  enough 
tepid  cream  or  milk  to  make  the  batter  medium  stiff. 
Beat  well  until  the  dough  does  not  stick,  let  it  rise  in 
a  warm  place.  When  light,  take  out  by  the  table- 
spoonful  or  cut  into  small  pieces,  roll  each  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  spread  with  cottage  cheese,  poppy  seed 
or  jam  filling,  or  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed  together, 
or  peach  or  apple  butter  or  marmeládě,  roll  each  as 
for  Vienna  rolls  but  do  not  shape  into  a  crescent,  pinch 
the  ends  together,  arrange  on  a  buttered  pan,  let  them 
rise  once  more  and  then  bake. 

797.    RAISED    CAKE   No.    1. 

Buchta. 
Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  five  yolks, 
one  at  the  time,  six  tablespoons  of  sugar,  the  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  a  dash  of  mace  and  the  same  of  salt, 
and  beat,  then  add  four  cups  of  flour,  a  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  dissolved  in  tepid  milk,  four  whites  beaten 
stiff  and  enough  cream  to  make  the  batter  quite  stiff. 


24G  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN   COOK  BOOK. 

Beat  lialf  an  hour.  Butter  a  cake  form,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  pour  the  dough  into  it,  brush  the 
top  with  melted  butter  and  bake  slowly  forty-five 
minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  plate  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
powdered  sugar. 

798.  RAISED   CAKE   No.   2. 

BucMa  na  jiný  způsob. 

Melt  eight  tablespoons  of  butter,  then  cream  it 
half  an  hour,  add  twelve' eggs  and  three  cups  of  flour, 
that  is,  add  one  egg  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour  at  the 
time,  then  add  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla  extract,  a  dash  of  salt,  a  cake  of  com- 
pressed or  dry  yeast  properly  dissolved,  and  beat 
fifteen  minutes.  Fold  in  five  whites  beaten  stiff  and 
pour  the  dough  into  a  buttered  form,  so  that  it  is  half 
filled.  Place  in  a  warm  spot  to  rise  and  when  the 
form  is  nearly  full,  bake  in  a  slow  oven,  about  forty 
minutes.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a  plate  and  dust 
thickly   with   powdered   sugar. 

799.  RAISED   CAKE   No.  3. 

Buchta  ještě   na  jiný   způsob. 

Cream  eight  tablespoons  of  butter  half  an  hour, 
add  six  tablespoons  of  fine  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of 
one  lemon,  twelve  yolks  and  twelve  tablespoons  of 
flour,  that  is  one  yolk  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour  at 
the  time,  beating  a  while  before  adding  the  next,  then 
add  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  cake  of  dissolved  compressed 
yeast.  Beat  the  dough  very  thoroughly,  then  add 
three  whites  beaten  stiff.  Butter  a  cake  form,  sprinkle 
witli  bread  crumbs,  pour  the  dough  into  it,  let  it  rise 
double  its  bulk  and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a  plate  and  dust  thickly 
with  powdered  sugar. 


RAISED  CAKES.  247 

800.  RAISED    CAKE    WITH    ALMONDS. 

Buchta  s  mandlemi. 

Cream  eight  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  eight  eggs, 
one  at  the  time,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  small  cup 
of  cream,  a  dash  of  mace  and  salt,  stir  thoroughly, 
then  add  four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  and  a  half  table- 
spoons of  blanched  and  finely  chopped  almonds,  one 
and  a  half  ounces  of  minced  citron,  a  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  properly  dissolved,  and  beat  half  an 
hour,  then  add  five  whites  beaten  stiff.  Butter  a  form, 
fill  half  full  with  the  batter,  let  it  rise  once  its  bulk, 
then  bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  plate 
and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

801.  RAISED    CAKE    WITH    CHERRIES. 

Buclita  s  višněmi. 

Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  seven  yolks, 
one  at  the  time,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  dash  of 
mace  and  salt,  two  cups  of  tepid  cream,  beat  thoroughly, 
then  add  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  the  dough 
rather  stiff.  Now  add  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast 
properly  dissolved  and  beat  until  the  dough  does  not 
stick.  Butter  a  form,  sprinkle  with  chopped  blanched 
almonds,  dust  with  flour,  pour  in  over  half  the  dough, 
cover  this  with  a  layer  of  preserved  cherries,  pour  in  the 
rest  of  the  dough,  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place,  then 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.  When  done,  turn  out  and  dust 
thickly  with  powdered  sugar. 

,      802.    COFFEE    CAKE. 

Buchta  lve  kávě. 
Cream  a  cup  of  butter  with  eight  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  four  yolks,  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  dash 
of  mace  and  of  salt  and  add  two  pounds  of  flour, 
then  add  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  milk, 
and  four  whites  beaten  stiff.  The  dough  should  be 
medium  stiff.  Beat  half  an  hour  and  then  let  it  rise. 
Butter  a  pan,   sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  place  the 


248  BOHEMIAN-AMEKICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

doiigli  iu  it,  rolled  about  half  au  inch  thick,  brush  the 
surface  with  melted  butter,  let  it  rise  and  then  bake 
slowly.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  before 
baking. 

803.    CROWN    CAKE. 

Báhovl-a. 
The  evening  before  baking  prepare  the  batter  by 
dissolving  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  tepid  milk, 
adding  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  two  or  three  table- 
spoons of  flour.  In  the  morning  cream  together  half 
a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  lard,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  then  add  six  yolks,  one  at  the  time  and  two 
whole  eggs,  a  dash  of  salt,  tw^o  cups  of  milk,  the  yeast 
batter,  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Finally  add  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  cleaned  and  seeded  raisins,  and  let  the  cake  rise. 
Butter  a  form,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  in  the 
dough,  let  it  rise  again  and  bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven. 

804.  CROWN  CAKE  WITH  POPPY  SEED. 

Bucliia  maková. 
Cream  a  cup  of  butter  with  eight  yolks.  Dissolve 
two  cakes  of  compressed  yeast  in  two  tablespoons  of 
milk  and  eight  tablespoons  of  cream,  add  this  to  the 
butter  and  yolks,  half  a  cup  of  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  stir  thor- 
oughly. Then  add  four  whites  beaten  stiff,  three  cups 
of  flour,  beat  until  smooth,  then  add  two  cups  of 
poppy  seed  ground  to  a  paste,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
a  dash  of  salt.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  pour  into  a 
buttered  form  which  you  have  sprinkled  with  halved 
blanched  almonds  and  bread  crumbs.  Let  the  dough 
rise  in  this,  then  bake. 

805.    CHRISTMAS    TWIST. 

Yánočka. 
Sift  eight  cups  of  flour  into  a  crock  or  deep  bowl, 
work  into  the  flour  half  a  pound  of  butter,    add  two 


DOUGHNUTS.  249 

whole  eggs  or  four  yolks,  a  cup  of  sugar  dissolved  in 
milk,  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind,  salt,  mace  (or  i)o\v- 
dered  anise  seed),  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved 
in  cream  or  milk,  and  beat  thoroughly.  The  dough 
should  be  rather  stiff.  Beat  until  the  dough  does  not 
stick,  then  cover  with  a  warm  cloth  and  place  in  a 
warm  spot  to  rise.  When  it  has  risen,  stir  in  a  cup  of 
seedless  raisins  and  half  a  cup  of  chopped  blanched 
almonds,  knead  the  dough  on  the  board  a  while,  then 
divide  into  four  large  portions  and  five  smaller  ones. 
Eoll  each  into  a  long  roll  and  let  each  piece  rise,  then 
braid  the  four  large  pieces  together,  forming  a  loaf.  Place 
this  on  a  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper,  braid  the  three 
smaller  pieces  and  place  them  on  top  of  the  loaf,  and 
then  the  remaining  two,  putting  them  on  top,  shaping 
all  nicely.  Let  it  rise  once  more,  then  brush  with  beaten 
yolks  and  bake  in  a  slow^  oven.  If  this  cake  rises  very 
much,  it  must  have  a  hotter  fire.  By  using  whole  eggs, 
the  cake  will  be  more  moist,  but  by  using  yolks  only, 
it  will  be  richer. 

806.  HOT   CROSS   BREAD. 

Velikonoční  hocltánelc. 
Prei)are   the  dough   as    directed  in  the    preceding 
recipe,  make  two  or  three  loaves  of  it,  rub  each  with 
beaten  egg,  cut  a  cross  on  the  top  of  each,  let    them 
rise  and     bake  in  a  slow"  oven. 

Doughnuts  and  Other  Fried  Cakes. 
Koblihy  a  jiné  smaženice. 

807.  PLAIN    DOUGHNUTS. 

Jednoduché  koblihy. 
Cream  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
two  eggs.  Add  a  cup  of  sour  milk  to  which  you  have 
added  half  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  or  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  in  which  case  you  must 
use  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  instead  of  soda.  Then 


250  BOřlEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

add  flour  enough  to  make  dough  as  for  biscuits.  Koll 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter  and  fry 
in  hot  fat. 

808.    FILLED   DOUGHNUTS. 

Nadívané   hoh liJiy. 

Cream  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  eggs 
well  beaten,  half  an  ounce  of  yeast  dissolved  in  a  bit  of 
tepid  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  bit  of  grated 
lemon  rind,  a  dash  of  salt,  a  pound  of  sifted  warm 
flour,  a  tablespoon  of  rum  or  wine  (this  is  used  so  that 
the  doughnuts  will  not  absorb  too  much  fat),  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cream.  Beat  fifteen  minutes,  in  one  direction, 
then  sprinkle  with  flour  and  place  in  a  warm  spot  to 
rise.  Turn  the  dough  out  on  a  floured  board,  roll  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  like  cookies,  that  is  plain  round 
pieces.  Cover  a  piece  with  apricot,  prune  or  other 
stiff  jam  or  preserves,  place  over  it  another  piece,  cut 
each  with  a  trifle  smaller  cutter,  which  will  press 
both  pieces  together  tightly,  so  the  jam  inside  will  not 
run.  Let  the  cakes  rise  once  more,  then  fry  them  in 
deep  fat,  not  crowding  them  too  much.  Cover  and 
when  fried  on  one  side,  turn  over  (do  not  prick)  and 
let  them  finish  frying.  Do  not  cover  after  turning. 
Drain  in  a  strainer  or  on  a  blotter  and  sprinkle  gene- 
rously with  powdered  sugar.  Do  not  pile  them  over 
each  other  while  hot. 

809.    FRIED   CAKES. 

Šišky. 

Cream  together  half  a  cup  of  butter,  four  yolks,  a 
dash  of  salt,  a  dash  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  dash  of  mace, 
add  a  quart  of  warm  flour,  then  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  tepid  cream  enough  to  make  a  thick 
batter.  Beat  until  the  dough  does  not  stick,  then 
stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  seedless  raisins,  sprinkle 
the  dough    with  flour  and  let  it  rise.     When    it    has 


FRIED   CAKES.  251 

risen,  turn  it  out  on  a  floured  bread  board,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  roll  each  into  a  small  roll,'  let  them  rise 
again,  then  fry  in  deep  hot  fat.  When  done  on  both 
sides  drain  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

810.  CELESTIAL   CRUSTS   No.   1. 

J^oží  milosii  či  hrehotinky. 
Cream  together  three  eggs,  three  teaspoons  of 
sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough,  not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  noodles. 
Work  this  smooth,  roll  very  thin,  cut  into  squares, 
prick  each  several  times  with  a  fork,  then  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

811.  CELESTIAL   CRUSTS  No.   2. 

Khliotinl'ii  na  jiný  zpiisoh. 
Sift  on  the  bread  board  a  cup  of  flour,  pour  into 
it  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  two  beaten  yolks,  one  whole 
egg,  a  dash  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Work 
smooth  and  stiff,  as  for  noodles.  Roll  thin,  cut  into 
squares,  prick  eacli  with  a  fork  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

812.    WONDERS. 

Zloutl'Ove  I'rehotinJi.y. 
Cream  four  yolks  with  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  white  sweet  wine,  three  tablespoons  of 
cream,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Beat  well,  turn  on  a  floured 
board,  roll  and  beat  with  the  rolling  pin.  Then  roll 
very  thin,  as  for  noodles,  cut  into  squares  or  long- 
pieces,  cut  two  slits  in  each  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Drain 
and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

813.    FRIED    ROSETTES    No.    1. 

Eůžice. 

Prepare  dough  as  for    celestial    crusts,   roll    thin, 

cut  with  any  fancy-shaped  cutter,  brush  each  with  the 

white  of  an  egg,  put  three  together,  one  on  top  of  the 

other,  press  well  in  the  middle  with  your  finger,  and 


252  BOHEMIAN-AMEBICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

fry  in  deep  hot  lard.  When  done  drain,  phice  a  1)it  of 
preserves  or  jam  in  the  center  and  sprinkle  with  ])ow- 
dered  sngar. 

814.    FRIED    ROSETTES    No.    2. 

Růžice  na  jiný  způsoh. 
To  fonr  whole  eggs  (take  ont  one  white  for  fnture 
nse)  add  eight  tablespoons  of  sngar,  six  tablespoons  of 
sweet  cream  and  a  dash  of  salt.  If  yon  wish,  yon  may 
add  fonr  tablespoons  of  sweet  wine,  it  adds  flavor.  Stir 
well,  then  add  enongh  flonr  to  make  the  dongh  not 
qnite  as  stiff  as  for  noodles.  Roll  as  thin  as  for 
noodles  and  cnt  with  five  different  sized  cntters,  one 
just  a  little  smaller  than  the  other.  Beat  the  white, 
rub  the  center  of  the  largest  piece,  place  the  next 
size  on  it,  rub  this  in  the  center  with  the  white 
and  so  continue  until  you  have  all  five.  In  doing  this, 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  rub  more  than  the  center 
with  the  white,  as  the  cakes  would  stick  together. 
Merely  rub  the  center  with  your  finger  dipped  in 
the.wliite,  making  a  little  dent  at  the  same  time,  to 
press  the  pieces  together.  When  you  have  all  done  this 
w^ay,  fry  carefully  in  hot  deep  fat.  When  done,  place  a 
bit  of  jam  or  jelly  in  the  center  of  each  or  a  bit  of  beaten 
white  sprinkled  with  red  sugar.  If  these  are  made  right, 
they  are  very  pretty,  as  the  edges  rise  up  in  frying,  so 
that  each  rosette  looks  like  a  real  rose. 

815.    CRUSTS. 

Kraple. 
Weigh  a  pound  of  flour  and  a  pound  of  firm 
butter.  Divide  the  flour  in  halves,  to  one  add  the 
butter,  working  it  in  thoroughly  and  to  the  other  four 
yolks  and  one  whole  egg,  having  first  beaten  them, 
a  dash  salt  and  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  so  that  the 
dough  is  not  too  stiff.  Add  enough  flour  to  roll 
out,  then  place  on  it  the  butter  and  flour  worked 
together  and   roll   that  over  the  yellow    dough.     Fold 


CAKES.  253 

into  a  square.  Spread  on  the  table  a  clean  tablecloth 
well  floured,  and  roll  the  dough  on  it  as  thin  as  possible. 
When  this  is  done,  fold  as  you  would  a  handkerchief 
and  put  it  on  a  plate.  Let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  roll  again,  as  thin  as  for  noodles,  cut  into 
strips  about  three  inches  wide,  then  across,  to  form 
squares.  Fold  each  square  with  the  corners  in  the 
center,  bake  on  a  buttered  tin  and  when  done  spread 
with  jam  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

• 

Cakes, — Dorty. 

Layer  Cakes. — Skládané  Dorty. 

In  order  to  make  good  cakes,  all  the  ingredients 
must  be  fresh  and  of  good  quality,  properly  put 
together,  and  the  oven  must  be  heated  so  that  no  fuel 
need  be  added  during  the  baking.  If  the  oven  is  too 
hot  for  baking  layer  cakes,  the  layers  crack  on  the 
surface;  if  not  hot  enough,  the  dough  shrinks  and 
does  not  rise  properly.  When  baking  a  laj^er  cake,  do 
not  open  the  oven  during  the  first  ten  minutes. 
Measure  the  flour  after  sifting,  it  may  be  sifted  four 
or  five  times.  To  each  cup  of  flour  add  a  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  Use  finely  granulated  sugar.  The 
eggs  should  be  cold,  as  tlie  whites  beat  stiffer  that 
way.  A  pinch  of  salt  added  to  the  whites  helps  to 
make  them  stiffer.  Stir  the  batter  in  a  crock,  using 
a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle.  Grease  the  pans  with  cold 
butter  or  lard  and  dust  evenly  with  flour.  Let  the 
cake  cool  before  applying  icing  or  frosting.  When 
putting  the  ingredients  together,  do  it  thus:  cream 
the  butter,  then  add  sugar  gradually,  cream  the  two 
together,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  flavoring, 
then  add  the  flour  and  milk,  alternately,  a  small 
quantity  at  the  time,  stirring  until  smooth,  then  fold 
in  carefully  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  The  cups  used  as 
measure   in   the   following  recipes   are   ordinary  coffee 


254      ^  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

cups,  containing-  one  half  pint  each.  Layer  cakes  require 
a  hotter  oven  than  loaf  cakes.  When  the  cake  shrinks 
from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  it  is  done.  Another  test  is 
inserting  a  tooth-pick  and  if  nothing  adheres  to  it,  the 
cake  is  baked. 

816.  CHOCOLATE   LAYER   CAKE   No.    1. 

Sliádaný  čoholádový  dort. 
Cream  together  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  sugar,  add  three  beaten  yolks,  two 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  water,  three  cups  of  flour  with  two 
teaspoons  of  Ijaking  powder,  and  finally  the  beaten 
whites  and  vanilla  flavoring.  Pour  into  layer  cake 
tins  and  bake.  Filling:  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup 
of  syrup,  half  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  a  teaspoon  of 
butter,  boiled  together  five  minutes,  then  add  five 
tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate.  Boil  until  thick,  then 
add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  and  when  cool  spread 
between  the  layers. 

817.  CHOCOLATE   LAYER    CAKE   No.   2. 

Sl-ládanij  čoholádový  dort  na  jiný  způsob. 
Cream  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  cup  of 
sugar,  add  two  beaten  yolks,  half  a  cup  of  milk  and 
three  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate.  Stir  well,  then 
add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  to  which  you  have 
added  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  after  stirring 
well,  add  half  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water  and  vanilla  flavoring.  Three  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  may  be  used  instead  of  the  cream  of  tar- 
tar and  soda.  Bake  in  layer  cake  tins.  Filling:  melt 
the  desired  quantity  of  chocolate,  add  it  to  beaten  whites, 
then  add  sugar  until  it  thickens. 

818.  CHOCOLATE    LAYER    CAKE   No.    3. 

Skládaný  čokoládový   do7't  ještě  na   jiný  zpásoh. 
Boil  together  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  beaten 
yolk  and  half  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens,  then  cool.     Now    add  a  cup 


CAKES.  255 

of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  half  a  cup 
of  milk  and  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavor- 
ing, beat  smooth  and  bake  in  four  layer  tins.  When 
cool  spread  with  the  following  filling:  boil  together 
one  cup  of  fine  sugar  with  two  tablespoons  of  water. 
When  it  spins  a  thread,  pour  it  into  a  beaten  white, 
beating  until  cool. 

819.    COCOANUT    LAYER    CAKE. 

Skládanij  kohosový  dort. 
Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar, 
add  three  beaten  yolks,  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  and  enough  flour  to  make 
the  batter  thicker  than  for  pancakes.  Bake  in  layer 
cake  tins.  Filling:  beat  the  three  whites  stiff,  add 
about  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla  flavoring.  After  spreading  each  layer  with 
the  frosting,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut. 

820.    JELLY    LAYER    CAKE. 

Skládaný  dort  s  ovocnými  rosoly. 
Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar, 
add  three  beaten  yolks.  Sift  two  cups  of  flour  with  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Add  half  a  cup  of  milk 
to  the  first  named,  then  half  of  the  flour,  then  add  the 
other  half  cup  of  milk  and  the  rest  of  the  flour,  beat 
smooth,  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring  and  fold 
in  the  three  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  layer  cake 
tins.  When  cool,  spread  with  currant,  strawberry, 
or  other  jelly  except  the  top  layer.  Sprinkle  that  with 
powdered  sugar. 

821.    LEMON   LAYER    CAKE    No.    1. 

Skládaný   citrónový   dort. 
Cream    half   a    cup    of   butter   with    two    cups    of 
sugar,  add  three  yolks,   a  cup  of  milk,    three  cups  of 
flour,    three    teaspoons  of  baking    powder    and  a  tea- 
spoon of  lemon    flavoring.     Bake  in  layer    cake  tins. 


256  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Filling:  boil  together  half  a  ciii3  of  water,  a  cup  of 
sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
the  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  two 
tablespoons  of  flour.  Boil  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick.  When  cool,  spread  between  the  layers,  but  not 
on  top,  dust  that  thickly  with  powdered  sugar.  You 
may  use  orange  juice  and  rind  instead  of  lemon,  if 
you    wish. 

822.    LEMON    LAYER    CAKE    No.    2. 

SJdádaíiý  citrónový  dort  na  jiný  způsob. 
Beat  six  whites  stiff,  fold  in  carefully  two  cups 
of  flour  sifted  with  two  teasj^oons  of  baking  powder. 
Cream  the  yolks  with  two  cups  of  sugar,  mix  the 
yolks  and  whites  together  carefully,  bake  in  six  layer 
cake  tins  and  when  cool  spread  with  any  kind  of  jelly. 
Lemon  filling  is  very  good  when. made  thus:  cream 
three  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
the  juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons,  and  boil  until  thick. 

823.    SILVER   LAYER    CAKE. 

Skládaný  stříbrný  dort. 
Cream  a  scant  cup  of  butter  with  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  sugar,  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract,  a  cup 
of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  three  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  then  fold  in  carefully  eight 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  four  layers.  When  cool 
spread  with  ordinary  frosting  or  icing. 

824.  GOLD  LAYER  CAKE. 

Skládaný  zlatý  dort. 
Cream  a  cup  of  butter  with  two  and  a  half  cups 
of  sugar,  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract,  a  cup  of 
milk,  one  beaten  egg,  seven  beaten  yolks  and  three 
cups  of  flour  sifted  with  three  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Spread  with  yellow  frosting,  as  described  under 
''Frostings''. 


CAKES.  257 

825.  RIBBON   LAYER   CAKE. 

SJvládaný  pentlový  dort. 
Bake  four  layers  according  to  recipe  No.  823 
(Silver  Layer  Cake)  omitting-  the  flavoring.  Prepare 
the  gold  colored  dough  thus:  cream  half  a  cup  of 
butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
extract,  seven  yolks  and  one  whole  Qgg,  half  a  cup  of 
milk,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoon 
and  a  half  of  baking  powder.  Beat  smooth,  pour  into 
layer  cake  tins  half  the  usual  quantity,  cover  with 
choped  or  sliced  figs,  dust  with  a  bit  of  flour,  add  the 
rest  of  the  batter  and  bake.  This  will  make  two  layers, 
and  you  will  thus  have  four  white  layers  and  two  gold 
colored.  Make  two  cakes,  putting  one  gold  colored 
layer  between  two  white.  Spread  with  cinnamon  frost- 
ing. You  may  use  preserved  strawberries,  raspberries 
or  pineapple  instead  of  the  figs. 

826.  BLACK   LAYER   CAKE. 

Sl'ladanf)  čeniij  dort. 
Cream  one  and  a  half  cups  of  butter  with  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  sugar,  add  five  beaten  yolks,  one  cup 
of  black  coffee,  stir  well,  then  add  enough  flour  to 
make  the  batter  thicker  than  for  pancakes.  Now  add 
half  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  allspice  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Beat  smooth,  fold  in  five  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  a  medium  oven,  in  layer  cake  tins.  When 
dpne  and  cool  spread  with  the  following:  boil  a  fourth 
of  a  cup  of  water  with  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar 
to  a  thick  syrup.  In  the  meantime  beat  two  whites 
and  when  the  syrup  spins  a  thread,  pour  it  into  the 
beaten  whites,  beating  constantly.  Add  a  few  drops 
of  vanilla  and  beat  until  cool. 


Cook  Book  17 


258  "BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Loaf  Cakes. — Dorty  v  celku. 

827.    WEDDING   CAKE. 

Svatehní  dort. 

Cream  one  pound  of  butter  with  two  pounds  of 
powdered  sugar,  add  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  two 
pounds  of  flour  previously  sifted  several  times,  a  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  flavoring-,  beat  smootli.  Beat  twenty- 
four  whites  stiff  and  fold  them  in  carefully.  Line  a 
deep  form  with  buttered  paper,  fill  three  fourths  full 
and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  When  done, 
spread  with  frosting  or  icing  and  garnish  with  candied 
flowers,   ornaments,  etc. 

828.  COCOANUT    LOAF    CAKE    No.    1. 

Kokosový   dort. 

Beat  two  eggs  (except  one^  of  the  whites,  which 
reserve  for  future  use),  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  fourth  of 
a  cup  of  butter,  cream  all  together.  Add  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  beat  smooth.  Now  add  a 
cup  of  shredded  cocoanut  and  bake.  Beat  the  white, 
add  powdered  sugar,  spread  over  the  cake  and  sprinkle 
with  cocoanut. 

829.  COCOANUT    LOAF    CAKE    No.    2. 

Kokosový  dort  na  jiný  způsob. 

Prepare  the  batter  as  directed  in  the  preceding 
recipe.  Place  five  tablespoons  of  same  in  a  bowl  and 
add  enough  red  sugar  to  it  to  make  it  a  pretty  red 
color,  then  add  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  cocoanut.  Pour 
the  white  batter  into  a  buttered  form,  then  add  the 
red  batter,  placing  a  tablespoonful  about  an  inch 
apart.  When  baked,  the  red  batter  falls  to  the  bottom, 
forming  thus  red  stripes  in  tlie  white.  Spread  with 
frosting  and  cocoanut. 


CAKES.  259 

830.    CROWN    CAKE. 

Óeshý  dort. 
Cream  a  cup  of  butter,  adding  gradually  a  cup 
of  sugar.  Beat  five  yolks  and  whites,  separately,  and 
then  carefully  mix  the  two  together.  Add  this  to  the 
butter  and  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and 
two  cups  of  flour,  to  which  you  have  added  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  baking  poAvder.  Beat  thoroughly,  then 
add  half  a  cup  of  blanched  almonds  cut  into  fine 
strips,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  and  a  tablespoon  of  rum 
or  sweet  wine.  Pour  the  dough  into  a  buttered  form, 
and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

831.    SNOW  CAKE. 

^nčliový  dort. 
Creaní  one  cup  of  sugar  with  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
add  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour 
sifted  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  and  finally 
fold  in  four  whites  beaten  stiff.     Bake  in  a  form. 

832.  MARBLE    CAKE   No.   1. 

Mramorový  dort. 
Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups  of  sugar, 
add  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour 
sifted  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla  flavoring  and  six  whites  beaten  stiff. 
.Divide  this  batter  into  two  parts.  To  one  add  two 
ounces  of  chocolate,  grated.  Put  the  batter  in  the 
form,  alternating  one  tablespoon  of  dark  with  one  of 
white  and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

833.  MARBLE    CAKE    No.    2. 

Mrámorou f/  dort  na  jinfi  způsob. 
Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  half  a  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  add  three  beaten  yolks,  half  a  cup  of 
molasses,  half  a  cup  of  sour  milk  to  which  you  have 
added  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
two  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  allspice.  Now 
prepare    the  light    batter  by    creaming    half  a  cup  of 


260  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  three  beaten  whites, 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  vanilla  flavoring  and  two 
cups  of  flour  sifted  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Place  alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark 
batter  in  a  buttered  form,  filling  it  half  full,  then 
bake  slowly  one  hour. 

834.    PLAIN    CAKE. 

Laciný  dort. 
Cream  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  with  one 
cup  of  sugar,  add  two  eggs  and  cream  again,  then  add 
one  cup  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  mixed 
with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  vanilla  or  lemon 
flavoring,  and  bake  either  in  layers  or  loaf. 

835.    MAY   CAKE. 

Májový  dort. 
Beat  two  whites  and  one  whole  Q^g  with  a  cup  of 
sugar  ten  minutes,  then  add  four  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter  and  half  a  cup  of  flour  to  which  you  have  added 
a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Pour  into  a  square 
buttered  tin  'and  bake  rather  slowly  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  When  done,  turn  on  a  platter,  cut  into 
squares,  cover  each  with  icing  or  frosting  and  place  a 
halved  English  walnut  or  candied  cherry  in  the  center 
of  each. 

836.    ANGEL    FOOD    CAKE. 

Andelsl'y  dort. 
Place  an  even  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  in  a 
cup  of  flour  and  then  sift  same  five  times.  Sift  five 
times  a  cup  of  finely  granulated  sugar.  Beat  eleven 
whites,  but  not  too  stiff.  It  is  best  to  use  a  wire 
beater  for  this,  not  the  revolving  kind.  Then  slowly 
pour  the  sugar  into  the  whites,  beating  constantly, 
after  which  add  the  flour  in  the  same  manner,  adding 
at  last  vanilla  flavoring  to  taste.  Pour  into  an  un- 
greased  form  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  forty-five 
minutes.    Do  not  open  the  oven  during  the  first  fifteen 


CAKES.  2(Jl 

minutes,  or  tlie  cake  might  fall.  For  this  reason  do 
not  walk  heavily  on  the  floor  etc.  When  done,  turn 
on  a  plate,  but  do  not  take  the  form  off  until  the  cake 
is  cool,  otherwise  it  might  shrink  or  fall.  Cover  with 
icing  made  by  creaming  as  much  powdered  sugar  with 
a  tablespoon  of  cream  or  milk  as  the  latter  absorb, 
and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla. 

837.    POUND   CAKE. 

Liberhový  dort. 
Cream  a  pound  of  butter,  add  a  pound  (8  or  9) 
eggs,  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  almond 
flavoring,  two  tablespoons  of  rum  or  cognac,  beat  half 
an  hour,  then  add  a  pound  of  sifted  flour.  Butter  a 
form,  fill  three  fourths  full  with  the  batter,  bake 
slowly  and  then  done  spread  with  icing. 

838.    FRUIT    CAKE. 

Ovocný  dort. 

Cream  a  cup  of  butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  add 
seven  beaten  yolks,  half  a  cup  of  molasses  to  which 
you  have  added  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Then  add  seven  whites  beaten  stiff  and 
a  quart  of  sifted  flour.  Wash  and  dry  a  pound  of 
currants,  a  pound  of  raisins  (seeded),  slice  fine  half  a 
pound  of  citron,  mix  all  together  and  dust  with  a  fourth 
of  a  cup  of  flour.  (The  fruit  will  not  sink  to  the 
bottom  if  covered  with  flour.)  Add  this  to  the  batter, 
also  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  cut  into  fine  strips, 
a  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  half  a 
teaspoon  of  cloves  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  allspice. 
Butter  a  form,  line  it  with  buttered  paper,  pour  the 
batter  in  three  fourths  full  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
two  hours.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  cover  the  cake  with 
paper. 

839.    ALMOND   CAKE. 
Mandlový  dort. 

Blanch  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds 
and  one  ounce  of  bitter    almonds,    pound  in  a  mortar 


262  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

to  a  paste  with  three  yolks.  Now  put  them  in  a  bowl, 
add  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  ten 
yolks  and  a  dash  of  mace,  and  beat  one  hour.  Then 
add  two  slices  of  toast  pounded  to  a  powder  in  a  mortar, 
and  finally  fold  in  ten  whites  beaten  stiff.  Butter  a  form 
and  sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs.  Pour  the  batter  in 
it  and  bake  one  hour.  Try  the  oven  by  placing  a 
piece  of  paper  in  it.  If  it  browns,  the  oven  is  right. 
When  done,  cover  with  icing. 

840.    HAZEL   NUT    CAKE. 

Oříškový  dort. 
Blanch  and  grate  fine  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
hazel  nuts,  add  half  a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  then 
eight  beaten  yolks  and  cream  at  least  half  an  hour, 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  carefully  four  whites  beaten 
stiff  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Butter  a  form, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  the  batter  in  it  and 
bake  slowly.  When  done,  turn  out  and  cool.  Then 
cover  with  icing  and  embellish  with  nuts  or  candied 
fruit.  You  may  use  English  walnuts  instead  of  hazel 
nuts,  if  you  choose. 

841.  SPONGE   CAKE. 

-  Piškotový  dort. 
Cream  eight  yolks  with  half  a  pound  of  sifted 
sugar  half  an  hour,  then  add  eight  whites  beaten  stiff 
and  cream  half  an  hour  longer,  then  add  two  cups  of 
flour  and  cream  a  while  longer.  Butter  a  form, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  in  the  batter  so  that 
the  form  is  not  quite  full  and  bake  slowly. 

842.  MILFOIL    CAKE. 

Lístkový  dort. 
Prepare  puff  paste  as  described  in  recipe  668. 
Roll  very  thin,  cut  out  five  or  six  cakes;  that  is,  with 
the  aid  of  plates  graduated  as  to  size  cut  first  one  large 
round  piece,  then  another  smaller  one,  etc.  Place  each 
on  waxed  or  buttered  paper,  brush  with  beaten  egg  and 


CAKES.  263 

bake.  When  done  and  cool,  spread  preserves  or  jam 
over  eack,  place  one  on  top  of  the  other,  according  to 
size,  except  the  last  one,  which  is  spread  with  icing 
and  sprinkled  with  chopped  blanched  almonds. 

843.    FRENCH   CAKE. 

Francouzský  dort. 
Sift  one  pound  of  flonr  on  the  bread  board,  work 
into  it  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  add  a  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  sifted  sugar,  one  egg,  a  dash  of  salt  and  half 
a  cup  of  cold  water.  Knead  thoroughly,  then  place  on 
ice  between  two  plates,  for  at  least  one  hour.  Then 
roll  very  thin,  line  a  buttered  form  and  bake  half 
done.  Then  spread  with  preserves  and  fill  nearly  full 
with  sponge  cake  batter,  chocolate  or  almond  cake 
batter  and  bake  slowly  one  hour. 

844.    CREAM   CAKE. 

Dort  se  smetanovou  pěnou. 
Prepare  puff  paste  as  shown  in  the  preceding 
recipe,  roll  very  thin,  lay  it  on  a  piece  of  waxed  paper, 
cut  a  round  pie«e  with  the  aid  of  a  plate,  brush  the 
edges  with  beaten  egg.  Roll  a  strip  about  an  inch  or 
wider  of  the  remaining  dough,  press  it  around  the 
edges  of  the  large  piece,  to  make  a  rim,  prick  the 
round  piece  with  a  fork  or  sharp  knife,  so  that  it  does 
not  puff  up  in  baking,  lay  it  with  the  i^aper  on  a  tin 
and  bake.  When  done  fill  with  whipped  cream 
sweetened  and  flavored,  and  garnish  with  berries. 

845.   JELLY  ROLL. 

Piškotový  závin. 
Cream  three  eggs  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  add  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  flour  to  which  you  have  added  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  dash  of  salt  and  then 
add  four  teaspoons  of  hot  water,  beating  constantly. 
Pour  into  a  square  tin  and  bake.  It  must  not  be  too 
thick,  not  more  than  half  an  inch  when  done,  other- 
wise   it    would    break.     TIjís    amount    will    fill    a    tin 


264  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

13  X 13  inches.  When  done,  dip  a  cloth  in  hot  water 
and  wring  it,  spread  it  on  the  table,  turn  the  cake  on 
it,  spread  Avitli  jelly,  and  roll  it  np  with  the  aid  of  the 
cloth.  Let  it  stand  covered  about  ten  minutes,  then 
unwrap  and   sprinkle  liberally    with  powdered   sugar. 

846.    BOHEMIAN   MOLASSES    CAKE. 

Cesl'y  perník. 

Cream  together  half  a  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  of 
sugar,  a  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  black  coffee, 
two  yolks,  and  a  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water.  Then  add  two  cups  of  flour,  a  teaspoon 
of  ginger,  a  dash  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice, 
also  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  if  desired.  Bake  rather 
slowly.  When  done  and  cool,  cover  with  icing  as 
follows:  beat  the  two  whites,  pour  into  them,  beating 
constantly,  syrup  made  by  boiling  a  cup  of  sugar 
with  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  water. 

847.    STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Jahodovfj  dort. 

Mix  together  four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  a  dash  of  salt,  then  add  half  a  cup 
of  firm  butter  cut  into  small  pieces.  Work  this  into  the 
flour,  as  for  biscuits.  Add  as  much  milk  as  for  biscuits, 
turn  the  dough  out  on  a  floured  bread  board,  roll  out 
an  inch  thick  (or  less,  as  desired)  line  a  pie  plate  with 
half  the  dough,  rub  with  butter,  cover  with  the  other 
half  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  half  an  hour.  When 
done,  separate  the  halves  and  let  the  cake  cool.  Then 
cover  one  half  with  a  thick  layer  of  mashed  or  chopped 
sweetened  strawberries,  place  on  it  the  other  half  and 
put  a  layer  of  berries  on  that,  sprinkle  Vith  powdered 
sugar  and  serve  with  cream.  Or  you  may  cover  the 
top  with  whipped  cream,  dotted  thickly  with  straw- 
berries. 


COOKIES.  265 

848.    POTATO    CAKE. 

Bramborový  dort. 
Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  eight  yolks, 
th3  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  a  dash  of  salt,  a  cup  of 
sugar,  three  medium-sized  potatoes  boiled  and  grated, 
and  eight  whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
form  and  bake  about  one  hour  in  a  sIoav  oven. 

849.    BOHEMIAN    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Ceskfj  jňškotovfj  dort. 
Cream  together  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of 
a  lemon  or  orange,  six  eggs  and  six  yolks,  then  add 
two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  beat  quite  a  while  and  pour 
into  a  buttered  form,  which  you  have  sprinkled  with 
chopped   blanched   almonds.    Bake   forty-five   minutes. 

Cookies,  Small  Cakes,  Confectionery,  Etc. 

Kukesy,  dortíčky,  cukrovinky,  atd. 

850.    GINGERSNAPS. 

Zázvorky. 
Heat  a  cup  of  butter,  add  a  cup  of  molasses,  a  cup 
of  sugar,  a  cup  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  a  table- 
spoon of  ginger,  the  same  of  cinnamon  and  two  eggs. 
Stir  well,  then  add  enough  flour  to  roll  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Roll 
thin  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven. 

851.   MOLASSES    COOKIES. 

Perníkové  iňacícky. 
Cream  together  one  cup  of  lard,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  powdered  fennel  seed,  one  tea- 
spoon of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoon  of  caraway  seed,  half 
a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves,  half 
a  teaspoon  of  allspice,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one 
nutmeg  grated.     Mix  all  together,   add  a  teaspoon   of 


26G  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

baking'  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  mix  well,  then  add 
enongli  flour  to  roll.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven. 

852.   SUGAR   COOKIES. 

Cukrové  Tcukesy. 
Cream  one  cnp  of  butter  with  two  cups  of  sugar, 
add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  three  eggs,  vanilla 
flavoring    and    two    teaspoons    of    baking    powder    in 
enough  flour  to  roll. 

853.   YOLK   COOKIES. 

Žloutkové  Iviihesy. 
Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes  and  then  put  them 
in  cold  water.  By  rapid  cooling  the  yolks  retain  a 
nice  yellow  color.  While  the  eggs  are  cooling,  cream 
one  cup  of  butter  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  yolks  and 
one  whole  egg,  adding  a  pinch  of  mace  and  grated  lemon 
rind.  Now  take  out  the  hard-boiled  yolks  (the  yolks 
only)  mash  them  to  a  paste  and  stir  into  the  rest,  add 
three  tablespoons  of  milk  and'  enough  flour  to  roll. 
Cut,  brush  with  beaten  yolk,  sprinkle  with  chopped 
blanched  almonds  and  bake  rather  slowly. 

854.  PEANUT   COOKIES  No.   1. 

Halušhové  Imhesy. 
Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar, 
add  a  cup  of  chopped  or  rolled  peanuts,  half  a  cup  of 
milk,  two  eggs  and  enough  flour  (with  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder)   to  roll. 

855.  PEANUT    COOKIES   No.    2. 

Halušhové  Jciihesy  na  jiný  zpiisoh. 
Cream  one  half  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of 
sugar,  add  one  half  cup  of  milk,  one  egg  (yolk  and 
white  beaten  separately),  one  pint  of  flour  with  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  a  heaping  cup  of 
chopped  peanuts,  oř  other  nuts.  Add  the  flour  in  two 
or  three  parts,  not  too  much  at  the  time.  Handle  very 
lightly  and  do  not  roll  too  thin. 


SMALL  CAKES.  267 

856.    CREAM    PUFFS. 

Smetanové  mechuřinJvy. 

Boil  together  two  cups  of  hot  water  and  one  cup 
of  butter.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  two  cups  of 
flour  and  cool.  When  cold,  add  six  eggs  (not  beaten) 
one  at  the  time  and  beat  five  minutes,  then  take  out  by 
tablespoonful  and  place  on  a  greased  tin,  being  careful 
that  they  do  not  touch  each  other.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
25  minutes  and  do  not  open  same  any  more  than 
necessary.  The  filling  is  made  thus:  mix  smooth  three 
tablespoons  of  flour  with  a  bit  of  cold  milk,  add  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  beaten  egg,  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Boil  until  thick,  then  cool.  Slit  each 
puff  in  one  side  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  put  the  filling 
in  with  a  teaspoon. 

857.     FANCY  ALMOND   CAKES. 

Mandlové  věnečhj. 
Blanch  and  cut  into  fine  strips  half  a  cup  of 
almonds.  Beat  four  whites  stiff,  add  a  tablespoon 
of  sugar  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  cut.  Use 
the  rest  of  a  cup  of  sugar  (after  taking  out  the  table- 
spoonful)  and  mix  it  with  the  almonds.  Mix  this  with 
the  beaten  whites,  add  a  bit  of  vanilla  and  stir  care- 
fully. Rub  a  tin  with  beeswax,  dot  it  with  table- 
spoonsful  of  the  mixture,  spread  each  flat  with  a  knife 
and  bake  very  slowly. 

858.    NOUGATS. 

Stoleté  l-oláctiij. 
Cream  one  pound  of  butter,  then  add  one  pound 
of  fine  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  fifteen 
yolks,  one  at  the  time,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  blanched 
and  grated  almonds,  a  dash  of  mace  and  salt,  mix 
well,  then  add  one  pound  of  fine  dry  flour  and  beat 
half  an  hour.  Line  a  pan  with  waxed  or  greased  paper, 
dot  with  tablespoonsful  of  the  dough,  rather  far  apart, 
press   in   each    a    candied    cherry,    brush   with   beaten 


268  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN   COOK  BOOK. 

yolks,    si^rinkle    with     finely    chopped     almonds    and 
powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

859.   KISSES. 

Sněhové  hopechy. 
Beat  four  whites,  add  two  dups  of  powdered  sugar 
and  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring,  then  beat  this  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  until  very  stiff.  Butter  thick  white 
pajDer,  line  with  it  a  tin  or  a  hardwood  plank  (this  is 
better),  dot  it  with  tablespoonsful  of  the  mixture,  an 
inch  apart,  and  bake  or  rather  dry  in  an  open  oven. 
They  must  not  brown.  If  you  wish,  you  may  press  two 
kisses  together,  when  done,  by  pasting  the  bottoms 
together  with  icing.  Do  not  take  off  the  tin  until  cold. 

860.    COCOANUT   KISSES. 

Kol-osové  kopečky. 
Mix  together  one  pound  of  shredded  cocoanut,  a 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  three  unbeaten  whites,  ten 
tablespoons  of  water,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Butter  a  tin  and  dust  it  with  flour.  Beat 
one  white  stiff  and  stir  it  into  the  mixture.  Form  kisses 
with  the  aid  of  two  teaspoons,  using  one  to  slide  off 
on  the  pan  the  mixture  in  the  other,  and  dry  in  an  open 
oven.    Do  not  take  off  the  tin  until  cold. 

861.    SPANISH   KISSES. 

Španělský   sníh. 
Beat    five    whites    stiff,    then    add    carefully    one 
pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.    Drop  on  a  buttered  pan  by    teaspoonsful    and 
bake  very  slowly,  or  rather  dry  in  a  slow  oven. 

862.    LADY   FINGERS. 

Fis  koly. 
Cream  eight  yolks  with  half  a  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  then  add  eight  whites  beaten  stiff  and  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour.     Add    the    flour  a  little    at  the    time. 


SMALL  CAKES.  269 

Pour  into  greased  lady-finger  pans  dusted  with  flour, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

863.    ALMOND    LADY    FINGERS. 

Mandlové  piškoty. 
Blanch  and  pound  to  a  paste  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  almonds  with  two  whites.  Put  this  in  a  bowl,  add 
ten  tablespoons  of  fine  sugar,  stir  thoroughly,  add  four- 
teen yolks,  and  cream  half  an  hour.  Beat  seven  whites 
stiff  and  fold  them  in  carefully  with  two  tablespoons 
of  flour.  Butter  and  dust  lady-finger  pans  with  flour, 
pour  the  batter  in  not  quite  full  and  bake  slowly. 

864.    CHOCOLATE    ALMOND    LADY   FINGERS. 

Mandlové  piškoty  s  čokoládou. 
Prepare  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe,  adding 
two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  and  proceed  as -directed. 

865.    VIENNA   LADY   FINGERS. 

Tvrdé  piškoty  vídeňské. 
Cream  five  yolks  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  then  add 
slowly  one  unbeaten  white.  Beat  the  other  four,  add 
them  and  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  cold  syrup  (water 
and  sugar  boiled  together)  and  finally  two  cups  of 
sifted  flour.     Bake  in  buttered  lady-finger  pans. 

866.    IMPERIAL   LADY   FINGERS. 

Císařské  piškoty. 
Beat  four  whites  stiff,  add  carefully  two  cups  of 
powdered  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  four 
beaten  yolks  and  two  cups  of  flour.  You  may  use 
vanilla  extract  instead  of  lemon  rind,  if  you  wish. 
Pour  the  batter  into  greased  lady-finger  pans,  sprinkle 
with  fine  sugar,  and  bake  rather  slowly. 

867.   RAISED   LADY  FINGERS. 

Kynuté   piškoty. 
Cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter  with  four  yolks, 
add    two    tablespoons  of  sugar,    four  cups  of  flour,  a 
cup    of    sweet    cream,    a    cake    of    compressed    yeast 


270  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

dissolved  in  milk,  and  beat  together  tlioronglily, 
finally  add  two  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  let  the  dough 
rise.  When  light,  turn  out  on  a  floured  bread  board, 
roll  and  cut  with  a  lady-finger  cutter.  Put  them  on  a 
buttered  pan,  let  them  rise  once  more,  rub  with  beaten 
egg,  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar  and  bake. 

868.    CINNAMON   STARS. 

Skořicové  hvézdičhj. 
Pound  to  a  paste  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds 
with  the  wliite  of  an  egg,  then  cream  with  one  pouud  of 
powdered  sugar  and  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  cinna- 
mon. Roll  very  thin,  cut  out  in  the  form  of  stars, 
arrange  on  a  pan  lined  with  greased  paper  and  bake 
slowly.  When  you  take  them  out  of  the  oven,  spread 
with  icing  to  which  you  have  added  a  bit  of  cinnamon. 
Do  not  take  off  the  paper  until  cool. 

869.    VANILLA  STARS. 

Vanilkové  hvězdičky. 

Prepare  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe,  using 
vanilla  flavoring  instead  of  cinnamon. 

870.    BAVARIAN    CAKES. 

Bavorské  linlky. 
Mix  together  three  cups  of  flour,  two  and  a  half 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder^  one  and  a  half  teaspoons 
of  cinnamon,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  cloves,  one 
and  a  half  teaspoons  of  allspice,  one  cup  of  Avliite 
sugar,  one  cup  of  brown  (or  two  cups  of  white).  Then 
add  two,  tablespoons  of  syrup,  two  tablespoons  of 
brandy,  three  ounces  of  chocolate,  four  eggs,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Sift  two  cups  of  flour  on  the  bread  board, 
turn  the  dough  out  on  it  and  knead  thoroughly.  Bake  a 
little  piece  first,  to  try  it.  If  it  rises  quickly  it  will  be 
good,  but  if  it  runs,  more  flour  must  be  added.  Now 
knead  in  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  unblanched  almonds,  then 
form  long  strijis,  the  length  of  the  pan,  about  two  inches 


SMALL  CAKES.  271 

wide  and  two  inches  thick.  Arrange  them  half  an  incli 
apart,  brush  with  tlie  white  of  an  egg  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  Bake  about  half  an  hour  and  then  try  a 
piece  by  cutting  it.  If  too  heavy,  they  are  not  done. 
They  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  rye  bread  when 
done.  When  done,  turn  out  and  let  them  cool  a  few 
moments,  then  separate  and  cut  each  strip  into  cakes 
about  an  inch  wide.  These  will  last  a  long  time  in  a 
dry  place  and  are  good  in  an  emergency,  in  case  of 
unexpected  company,  etc. 

871.    SUGAR  ROLLS. 

Cukrové  rolilíchy. 
Peel  and  dice  or  grate  several  apples,  place  in  a 
hot  saucepan  in  which  you  have  melted  a  tablespoon 
of  lard,  add  sugar  to  taste  and  simmer  until  tender, 
stirring  ocassionally,  then  add  a  bit  of  grated  lemon 
rind,  citron  minced  fine,  a  tiny  dash  of  pepper  and 
enough  finely  chopped  blanched  almonds  to  make  the 
mixture  quite  stiff.  Let  it  cool  a  bit,  then  turn  out  on 
a  board  thickly  dusted  with  sugar,  form  in  small  rolls, 
and  bake  rather  slowly. 

872.    ANISE    PRETZELS. 

CuJcrové  jaterníčky. 
Rub  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  cups  of 
flour,  add  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
two  teaspoons  of  powdered  anise  seed,  mix  into  a 
smooth  dough.  Form  pretzels  by  rolling  long  thin 
rolls,  and  then  forming  these  into  pretzels,  place  on  a 
tin  rubbed  with  beeswax,  brush  with  a  beaten  egg  and 
bake  a  light  brown. 

873.    CREAM  ROLLS. 

Trubičky   se  smetanou. 
Prei)are  puff  paste  as  directed  in  recipe  668.  Roll 
very  thin,  cut  into  long  strips,  roll  around  tin  rolls  for 
that   purpose,    arrange  on  a   tin,  brush    with  a  beaten 


272  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

egg  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  cool,  fill  with 
frosting  or  whipped  cream  to  which  you  have  added 
sugar  and  flavoring. 

874.    CORNUCOPIAS. 

Kornoutktj. 

Beat  together  until  it  bubbles  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
a  tablespoon  of  milk.  Butter  a  tin,  heat  it,  dot  with 
teaspoonsful  of  the  mixture,  rather  far  apart  so  they 
will  not  run  together,  and  bake  quickly  about  five 
minutes.  Roll  each  into  a  cornucopia  while  hot.  Beat 
three  whites,  add  sugar,  boil  until  thick,  and  fill  the 
cornucopias  with  this. 

875.    ALMOND    DARIOLES. 

Mandlové  taštički/. 
Prepare  puff  paste  with  half  a  pound  of  butter. 
(See  recipe  668).  Eoll  very  thin  and  cut  into  twelve 
squares.  Beat  together  four  yolks,  half  a  cup  sugar, 
the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  three  ounces  of  blanched 
and  grated  almonds,  and  finally  fold  in  four  whites 
beaten  stiff.  Place  a  teaspoon  of  this  mixture  on  each 
square,  brush  the  rest  of  the  surface  with  beaten  egg, 
fold  the  corners  together  over  the  center,  arrange  on 
a  buttered  tin  and  bake.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  while  hot. 

876.    CARDS. 

Karty. 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  one  whole 
egg,  two  yolks,  two  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract,  two  ounces  of  flour,  a  dash 
of  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace  and  grated  lemon  rind,  mix' 
together  and  knead  smooth  on  the  board.  Roll  very 
thin,  cut  into  squares,  brush  with  the  white  of  an  egg, 
cover  with  halved  blanched  almonds,  sprinkle  with 
fine  sugar  and  bake  rather    slowly.     You    may    bake 


řSMALL  ("AKES.  273 

these   before   putting   aiiytliiiig   on   tlieni,   then    spread 
with  icing  and  co\'er  with  bhmehed  abnonds. 

877.    IMPERIAL   BREAD. 

C  is  a  rs  hi'i  clilcbicek. 
Cream  ten  \olks  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar  forty-five 
minutes,  then  add  a  cup  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  seedless 
raisins,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  cut 
into  strips,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  grated  chocolate 
and  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  citron.  Mix  smooth,  then 
fold  in  carefully  ten  whites  beaten  stiff,  pour  into  a 
buttered  form,  bake  slowly  and  cut  in  slices  when 
cool. 

878.    BISHOP'S  BREAD. 

BislupsJi'!/  cli Jehíčcl'. 
With  a  wire  beater  beat  three  eggs  with  a  cup  of 
sugar  half  an  hour,  until  it  thickens.  Then  add  a  cup 
of  flour  to  which  you  have  added  a  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  a  cup  of  whole  unblanched  almonds,  and  a 
cup  of  seedless  raisins  dusted  with  flour.  Mix  well 
and  pour  into  a  buttered  form  dusted  with  flour.  Bake 
slowly  about  half  an  hour.     When  cool,   cut  in  slices. 

879.    MARCHPANE    (MARZIPAN). 

Marcipcui. 
Boil  a  cup  of  sugar  w^ith  two  tablespoons  of  water 
until  thick,  then  add  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds 
pounded  to  a  paste,  mix  and  boil  a  while  longer.  Add 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  wdien  it  has  cooled  a  little, 
add  two  whites  beaten  stiff.  Roll  about  two  inches 
thick,  brush  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  cover  with  halved 
blanched  almonds  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  on  a 
buttered  tin.  When  done,  cover  with  white  or  red 
icing. 

880.    SUGAR    CRESCENTS. 

Cukrové   rolilicky. 
Beat  two  whites,  add  carefully  six  ounces  of  sugar 
pounded  with    a    bit    of    vanilla    bean    and  a  dash  of 

Cook  Book  18 


274  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

grated  lemon  rind,  mix  very  carefully  with  grated 
unblanched  almonds,  form  into  crescents  and  arrange 
on  a  tin  rubbed  with  beeswax.  Bake  very  slowly. 
Take  them  off  the  tin  while  hot.- 


881.   ALMOND   CRESCENTS. 

Mandlové  obloučky. 

Work  four  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  cups 
of  flour,  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  dash  of  salt, 
the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  dash  of  mace.  Do 
this  on  the  bread  board.  Now  make  a  well  in  the 
center,  pour  in  four  yolks  and  a  wineglass  of  rum  and 
knead  smooth.  If  too  stiff,  add  an  egg.  Roll  thin, 
fold  as  you  would  puff  paste,  roll  again  and  fold  once 
more.  Roll  thin  the  third  time,  cut  into  strips  about 
one  by  six  inches,  brush  with  the  beaten  whites, 
sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  blanched  almonds  mixed 
with  powdered  sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  each,  and 
arrange  on  a  crescent  tin.  This  is  a  tin  made  for  the 
purpose.  Any  tinsmith  will  make  it  acording  to  direc- 
tions. It  is  long  enough  to  fit  the  oven,  about  six  inches 
in  diameter,  and  looks,  as  to  shape,  like  a  halved  stove 
pipe.  The  crescents  are  laid  over  the  rounded  tin,  and 
when  baked  and  cool,  they  retain  that  shape.  Bake 
in  a  rather  quick  oven.  You  may  use  milk  instead  of 
rum. 

882.    CINNAMON   LOZENGES. 

Skořicové  poh'outky. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  whole  egg  and 
one  yolk,  half  an  hour,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  flour  and  mix  well.  Rub  a  tin  with  beeswax,  dot 
with  teaspoonsful  of  the  mixture,  sprinkle  each  with 
chopped  blanched  almonds  and  sugar,  and  bake  slowly. 


CONFECTIONERY.  275 

883.    LEMON   LOZENGES. 

Citrónové  jmh'outhij. 
Beat  two  whites,  add  carefully  a  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
cream  half  an  hour,  then  add  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon 
and  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  blanched  almonds.  Eub 
a  tin  with  beeswax,  dot  with  teaspoonsful  of  the  mixture, 
sprinkle  each  with  sugar  and  bake  quickly.  If  the 
batter  is  thin,  add  sugar  and  cream  a  while  longer. 
You  may  use  cocoanut  and  vanilla  flavoring  instead 
of  almonds  and  lemon  juice. 

884.  SUGARED    ALMONDS. 

Cukrované  mandle. 
Boil  a  cup  of  sugar  with  a  cup  of  water  until  it 
spins  a  thread.  In  the  meantime  soak  a  pound  of 
almonds  in  hot  water,  so  that  they  become  crisp.  When 
the  syrup  is  done,  add  the  almonds  to  it  and  stir  until 
.all  are  coated  with  it.  Mix  together  powdered  sugar 
land  cinnamon  and  a  bit  of  flour,  stir  the  almonds  in 
this  until  they  remain  separated,  then  dry  thoroughly 
on  a  covered  sieve. 

885.  CHOCOLATE    FUDGE. 

Col'oladove  špalíčky. 
Boil  together  two  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
cream  or  milk,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  two  ounces 
of  chocolate,  about  ten  minutes  over  a  quick  fire.  Then 
add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring,  chopped  nuts,  pea- 
nuts or  cocoanut,  if  you  wish.  When  it  is  quite  thick, 
pour  on  a  buttered  plate,  let  it  get  cold,  then  cut  in 
squares. 

886.  CHOCOLATE  CANDY. 

Čokoládové  culcrovinky . 

Boil  together  a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  cup  of  syrup, 

a  cup    of    grated    chocolate,    one    and  a  half  cups  of 

butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  water  and  half  a  cup  of 

sweet  cream.     Boil  over  a  quick  fire    until  it  spins  a 


27G  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  ROOK. 

thread,    then    pour    on    a    buttered    ])latter,    mark    in 
sijnares  and  cool. 

887.    COCOANUT    CANDY. 

Kokosové  cukrovinky.  ijjjl 

Boil  two  cups  of  sngar  Avitli'  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream  and  a  teaspoon  of  butter.  Boil  about  fifteen 
minutes,  then  add  grated  or  shredded  cocoanut  and 
a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring,  pour  on  a  buttered 
plate  and  when  cold,  cut  in  squares. 

888.    CHOCOLATE    CARAMELS. 

Čokoládové  karamelky . 
Melt  over  a  slow  fire  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
grated  bitter  chocolate,  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  a 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  lialf  a  cup  of  syrup,  half  a  cup 
of  cream  and  a  teasi)oon  of  vanilla  flavoring.  When 
melted,  boil  until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water.  Pour 
on  a  buttered  platter  and  when  cool,  cut  in  squares. 

889.    MACAROONS. 

Makaronky. 

Dry  crisp  in  the  oven  half  a  pound  of  blanched 
almonds,  then  pound  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar  with  four 
wliites.  Place  the  paste  in  a  bowl,  add  two  cups  of  fine 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  white  and 
l)eat  it  smooth.  Line  a  tin  with  buttered  paper,  dot  with 
teaspoonsful  of  the  mixture,  nuiking  very  small  cakes 
about  the  size  of  a  fifty-cent  piece,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  The  macaroons  must  rise  while  baking  and 
crack  over  tlie  top,  be  white  inside  and  light  brown 
on  the  under  side.  You  may  use  hazel  nuts  instead 
of  almonds. 

890.    CHpCOLATE    MACAROONS. 

Čokoládo vé   makarón ky. 
Prepare   as   directed   in   the  preceding  recipe    and 
add   three  ounces  of  melted  chocolate.     Or    you    may 
use  i\\\  ounce  of  finely  powdered   cinnamon  instead  of 


SWEET  SAUCES.  277 

the  chocolate.     You  may  use  instead  of  the  lemon  rind 
a  bit  of  vanilla  bean  pounded  fine  with  sugar. 

Sweet  Sauces  and  Custards. 

Sladké  omáčky  a  krémy. 

891.  CUSTARD   SAUCE. 

Krémová   omáčJca. 

Put  two  cups  of  milk  to  boil.  In  the  -meantime 
cream  four  yolks  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  then  add 
it  to  the  boiling  milk  and  beat  until  it  thickens.  Add 
a  few  drops  of  vanilla  and  do  not  let  it  boil  any  longer, 
or  it  might  curdle. 

892.    MOLASSES    SAUCE. 

Syrohová  omacl'a. 

Boil  together  about  twenty  minutes  a  cup  of 
syrup,  a  cup  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a 
dash  of  cinnamon,  an  even  teaspoon  of  cornstarch 
mixed  smooth  with  a  bit  of  water,  a  dash  of  salt,  and 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  to  taste. 

893.    BRANDY   SAUCE. 

Omácl-a  s  rumem. 

Cream  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  two  of  sugar.  Add  enough  hot  water  to 
make  it  rather  thick  and  let  it  boil  a  moment,  then 
add  three  tablespoons  of  rum  or  brandy  and  a  bit  of 
grated  nutmeg. 

894.    HARD    SAUCE    No.    1. 

Tuhá  omáčl-a. 
Cream  three  fourths  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
with  a  cup  of  butter,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  vahilla 
or  lemon  flavoring,  and  kee])  it  cold  until  served. 


278  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

895.   HARD   SAUCE   No.   2. 

Tuhá  oniářhi  na  jiní/  způsoh. 

Cream  lialf  a  eiip  of  butter  witli  a  ciip  of  sugar,  add 
two  whites,  cream  a  bit  longer  and  finally  add  a  bit 
of  nutmeg. 

896.    CREAM    CHOCOLATE    SAUCE. 

Smetanová  onuička  s  čoli-oládou. 

Melt  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  sweet  chocolate  in 
a  cup  of  hot  milk,  stir  smooth,  add  two  teaspoons  of 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  milk,  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  place  on  the  stove,  add  slowly  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  hot  cream,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  a  few  moments, 
pour  through  a  sieve,  and  let  the  dish  stand  in  warm 
water  until  serving  same. 

897.  WINE    SAUCE    No.    1. 

Omáclia  z  červeného  vina. 

Boil  about  fifteen  minutes  a  cup  of  red  wine,  half 
a  cup  of  water,  a  handful  of  seeded  raisins,  a  piece 
of  whole  cinnamon,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind  and  sugar 
to  taste.  Blend  together  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour. 
Strain  the  sauce  into  the  flour  and  butter,  let  it 
simmer  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain  again  and 
serve. 

898.  WINE    SAUCE    No.    2. 

Omáčka  vinná  na  jiný  způsoh. 

Mix  smooth  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
with  white  wine,  then  add  four  beaten  yolks,  a  piece 
of  whole  cinnamon,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
two  cups  of  white  wine,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  let 
it  thicken,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  take  from  the  stove  and  strain,  serving  im- 
7uediately. 


SWEET  SAUCES.  279 

899.  ORANGE  OR  LEMON  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  pomerančová  neb    citrónová. 

With  a  sharp  knife  pare  off  the  yellow  rind  of 
half  an  orange,  being  careful  not  to  leave  any  of  the 
white.  Place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  cups  of  boiling 
cream,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  cover  and  set  away 
to  cool.  In  the  meantime  mix  smooth  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  with  a  bit  of  cold  milk  and  four  beaten  yolks, 
add  it  to  the  cooled  cream,  place  on  the  fire  and  stir 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Then  take  away  from  the  stove, 
strain  and  serve.  You  may  use  lemon  rind  instead 
of  orange,  if  you  wish. 

900.  APRICOT  OR  PEACH  SAUCE. 

Omáčka  meruňková  neb  broskvová. 
Place  in  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  apricot  or  peach 
preserves,  add  slowly  a  cup  of  white  wine,  a  piece  of 
whole  cinnamon  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Stir 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  then  take  away  and  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Cover 
and  place  in  a  warm  spot  until  serving  it. 

901.  CREAM    ALMOND    SAUCE. 

Omáčka  smetanová  s  mandlemi. 

Pound  to  a  paste  two  ounces  of  blanched  sweet 
almonds  with  four  or  five  bitter  almonds.  Mix  four 
beaten  yolks  with  a  teaspoon  of  water,  sugar  to  taste, 
add  a  bit  of  vanilla  bean  or  lemon  rind,  then  add  the 
almonds  and  two  cups  of  sweet  cream.  Place  on  the 
stove  and  beat  constantly  until  it  thickens.  It  must 
not  boil.  Before  serving  take  out  the  vanilla  bean  or 
lemon  rind. 

902.  CREAM    VANILLA    SAUCE. 

Omáčka  smetanová  s  vanilkou. 
Mix    smooth   a   teaspoon   of   flour   with    a   bit    of 
cream,  then  add  five  beaten  yolks,   sugar  to  taste,  a 


280  BOHEMIAN-AMEKICAN   COOK  JiOOK. 

few  drops  of  vanilla  flavoring  and  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream.  Place  on  the  fire  and  beat  until  it  thickens. 
It  must  not  boil.  You  may  use  a  piece  of  lemon  rind 
instead  of  the  vanilla  flavoring,  if  you  wish. 

903.  WINE    CHAUDEAU. 

Vinné  šodó. 
Beat  together  four  yolks,  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  add  a  piece  of 
cinnamon,  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  with  a  wire  beater 
beat  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  foams.  It  must  not  boil. 
When  it  thickens,   serve  immediately. 

904.  LEMON    CUSTARD. 

Citrónový  Irém. 
Boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Slice  two  large  lemons, 
pour  over  them  four  cups  of  water  and  boil  until 
tender.  In  the  meantime  cream  six  yolks  with  three 
cups  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter,  strain  into 
this  the  lemon  water  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  When 
it  boils,  add  five  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  mixed 
smooth  with  cold  water,  and  boil  a  bit  longer.  Then 
take  from  the  stove  and  fold  in  six  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Serve  cold. 

905.    CHOCOLATE   CUSTARD. 

Colioládový  l-rcm. 
Boil  a  small  cuj)  of  sweet  grated  chocolate  with 
four  cups  of  milk.  In  the  meantime  cream  six  yolks 
with  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  it 
to  the  milk  and  chocolate  when  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
tlien  five  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  mixed  smooth  with 
cold  water.  Boil  a  bit,  then  take  from  the  stove  and 
fold  in  six  whites  beaten  stiff.     Serve  cold. 


FILLINGS  FOR  TARTS.  281 

Fillings  for  Tarts. 

Povidla  a  jiné  nádivky  do  koláčů. 

906.    PRUNE    JAM. 

S vest JvO I'd  po vidla. 
Pick  over,  wash  and  boil  dried  prunes,  stone  and 
chop  fine  or  press  through  a  sieve.  Place  in  a  saucepan, 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind, 
a  bit  of  powdered  cloves  and  sugar  to  taste.  Boil  a 
while  and  cool,  when  the  filling  is  ready  for  use.  If 
too  thick,  add  a  little  of  prune  juice  or  water. 

907.  APPLE  BUTTER. 

Jahlhovci  povidla. 
Peel  and  core  a  bushel  of  tart  apples,  using  of 
course  only  good  ones.  Boil  as  many  at  the  time  as  are 
well  covered,  then  put  more  in  the  kettle.  When  all 
are  tender  press  through  a  colander.  Boil  a  gallon 
of  sweet  cider  down  to  half  that  quantity.  Add  the 
cider  to  the  strained  apples  and  boil  over  a  slow  fire, 
stirring  often.  About  an  hour  before  the  butter  is 
done,  add  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice  to  taste.  The 
butter  may  simmer  several  hours,  and  it  must  be  thick 
and  light  brown  when  done. 

908.    PEAR    JAM. 

Hrušková  povidla. 
In  the  evening  before  making  pare  and  quarter 
the  pears  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  using  two  pounds 
of  sugar  to  ten  pounds  of  fruit.  The  next  day  boil 
them  three  hours  just  as  they  are,  not  adding  any- 
thing, then  pour  into  stone  jars,  cover  with  a  clean 
cloth  and  «et  aside  in  a  cool  place. 

909.    PEACH   JAM. 

Broskvová  povidla. 
Peel    and    stone    peaches,    place    in    a    granite    or 
enameled    kettle,    cover   so    the    steam    cannot    escape, 
and  place  in  a  hot  oven.    When    soft,  mash    and    add 


282  BOHEMIAN-AMEIUCAN  COOK  BOOK.     • 

sugar  (a  cup  and  a  half  to  half  a  gallon  of  fruit). 
Stir  well,  cover  and  place  in  the  oven  again.  Stir 
occasionally,  and  bake  a  nice  brown  color.  Then  pour 
into  glass  or  stone  jars  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Jam 
prepared  thus  does  not  scorch  easily  and  has  a  nicer 
flavor.  Before  using  add  a  bit  of  grated  cloves,  lemon 
rind  and  nutmeg. 

910.    COTTAGE   CHEESE   FILLING. 

Tvcu'oli 0 vá  nadivil  a. 
Cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  a  pound  of 
fresh  cottage  cheese,  four  beaten  yolks,  six  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  dash  of  salt 
and  half  a  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  or  blanched  almonds 
cut  into  strips. 

911.  POPPY    SEED    FILLING    No.    1. 

Maková  nádívha. 
Grind  or  pound  fine  the  desired  quantity  of  poppy 
seed.  Place  it  in  a  saucepan,  add  enough  cream  to  so  it 
can  simmer.  When  it  thickens,  stir  often  so  it  does  not 
scorch.  Then  add  sugar  or  honey  to  taste,  a  bit  of 
cloves,  grated  lemon  rind,  vanilla  flavoring  or  chopped 
blanched  almonds. 

912.  POPPY  SEED    FILLING    No.    2. 

Maková  nádivka  na  jiný  způsoh. 
Cream  six  tablespoons  of  sugar  with  three  yolks, 
add  a  cup  of  ground  poppy  seed  boiled  in  cream,  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  three  or  four  tablespoons 
of  cream,  half  a  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  a  dash  of  cinna- 
mon and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Mix  smooth, 
then  stir  in  three  whites  beaten  stiff. 

913.    CRUMB   FILLING. 

Nádivka  ze  strouhanýcli  housek. 
Grate  four  slices  of  bread  and  fry  in  nice  butter, 
then  cool.   Now  add  chopped  blanched  almonds,  raisins, 
sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  cinnamon. 


FILLINGS  FOR   TARTS.  283 

914.    APPLE   SAUCE    FILLING. 

Jahleč?iá  nádivka. 
Place  sliced  tart  apples  in  a  saucepan,  add  water 
and  sugar,  vanilla,  cinnamon  or  lemon  rind,  and  sim- 
mer until  tender.  Then  strain  through  a  sieve,  add 
one  or  two  whites  beaten  stiff  and  raisins  or  chopped 
blanched  almonds. 

915.  RAISIN  FILLING. 
Hrozmhová  náďMa. 
Wash,  dry  and  seed  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  raisins, 
chop  and  place  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  few  teaspoons 
of  white  wine,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
sugar  to  taste,  a  dash  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  simmer 
a  while,  then  cool. 

916.    HAZEL   NUT   FILLING. 

Nádívl-a  z  lískových  ořechů. 
Cream  three  tablespoons  of  butter  with  two  yolks, 
add   six  tablespoons   of   sugar  with    which    you    have 
pounded  a  bit  of  vanilla  bean,  half  a  cup  of  chopped 
hazel  nuts  and  a  bit  of  white  wine. 

917.  WALNUT    FILLING. 

Nádivka  z  vlašských  ořechů. 
Boil  half  a  cup  of  sugar  with  half  a  cup  of  water, 
pour  into  a  bowl,  add  a  cup  of  walnuts  pounded  to  a 
paste,  a  bit  of  vanilla  flavoring  or  grated  lemon  rind, 
and  stir  smooth. 

918.  ALMOND   FILLING. 

Mandlová  nádivka. 
Cream    together    three    yolks,    six    tablespoons    of 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and    half  a  cup  of 
blanched  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste.     Stir  stiff,  then 
fold  in  three  whites  beaten  stiff. 

919.    SUGAR   ROUX. 

Cukrová  jiška. 
Brown    four    tablespoons    of    flour    with    a    small 
piece    of   butter,    then    add    two    ounces    of   powdered 


284  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

sugar.  Or  nib  three  tablesiioons  of  butter  with  a 
cup  of  flour  and  three  tablespoons  of  fine  sugar. 
Eitlier  of  tliese  may  be  used  to  sprinkle  jam  tarts. 

920.    GINGERBREAD   ROUX. 

Perniho vd  nadivila. 

Grate  a  piece  of  hard  gingerbread,  place  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  sugar  to  taste, 
and  let  all  brown  together. 

Frostings. — Polevy. 

921.     WHITE  FROSTING,  NOT  BOILED. 

,  Bild   poleva,   nevařená. 

Beat  two  whites,  stiff,  add  gradually  three  fourths 
of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  You  may  add  vanilla 
flavoring,  or  lemon  juice.  In  the  latter  case,  you 
must  use  more  sugar.  Beat  a  while,  then  spread  on 
the  cake  after  same  has  cooled.  The  frosting  must 
be  very  white  and  thick. 

922.     WHITE  FROSTING,  BOILED. 

Bild  poleva,  vařená. 

Boil  a  cup  and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar  with 
two  tablespoons  of  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.  In 
the  meantime  beat  two  whites,  then  pour  into  them 
the  syrup,  beating  constantly,  and  beat  until  cold  and 
smooth.  Tlien  add  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.  To  be 
successful  with  this  frosting,  the  syrup  must  be  just 
right. 

923.     CHOCOLATE  FROSTING,  NOT  BOILED. 

CoJi-oládová  poleva,  nevařená. 

Beat  three  whites  stiff,  then  add  slowly  three 
cups  of  sugar,  beating  constantly.  Stir  until  smooth, 
then  add  grated  chocolate  to  taste. 


PRUIT  JELLIES.  285 

924.     CHOCOLATE  FROSTING,  BOILED. 

Čokoládová  poleva,  vařená. 
Grate  half  a  cake  of  bitter  chocolate    and  boil  it 
with  half  a    cup  of  milk  or  cream    and    half  a  cup  of 
sugar  until  very  thick. 

925.    COLORED    FROSTING. 

Barevná  poleva. 
Prepare  white  frosting  as  directed  in  either  of 
the  first  two  recipes.  For  yellow  frosting  tie  up  a  bit 
of  saffron  in  a  cloth,  soak  it  in  hot  water,  then  squeeze 
a  few  drops  into  the  frosting.  For  pink  frosting  use 
cochineal.  For  green,  wash  and  pound  fine  fresh 
sjiinach,  using  a  few  drops  of  its  juice. 

926.    CINNAMON    FROSTING. 

Skořico vá  poleva. 
Prepare    white    frosting,    adding    a    teaspoon    of 
cinnamon  extract   or  finely  powdered   cinnamon. 

Fruit  Jellies. — Ovocné  rosoly. 

Jellies  are  made  by  boiling  together  the  juice  of 
fruit  that  is  not  too  ripe,  and  sugar.  The  fruit  is 
boiled  soft  and  the  juice  strained  through  a  jelly  bag. 
If  strained  first  through  a  sieve  and  then  through 
the  bag,  it  will  be  clearer.  Do  not  press  the  juice 
through  the  jelly  bag,  it  must  drip  of  its  own  weight, 
and  this  is  best  done  by  letting  it  drip  overnight.  The 
strained  juice  is  boiled  with  sugar  (which  should  be 
heated  before  adding  it  to  the  juice)  and  it  should 
boil  over  a  quick  fire.  As  the  jelly  bubbles  up  quite 
a  bit,  it  is  more  convenient  to  make  a  small  quantity 
at  the  time.  Skim  while  boiling.  Try  it  by  pouring  a 
bit  on  a  cold  plate.  If  it  coagulates  sufficiently,  you 
may  pour  it  into  glasses  immediately.  When  cool  place 
a  round  piece  of  white  paper  dipped  in  rum  in  each 
glass   and  cover.    Or  you  may  seal  with   hot  ])a]*affin. 


286  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

'  927.    GRAPE    JELLY. 

Hroznový  rosol. 

Stem  and  wash  nice  sound  grapes  and  place  in  the 
preserving  kettle.  To  each  eight  pounds  of  fruit  add  one 
cup  of  water  and  boil  about  half  an  hour,  stirring 
occasionally,  then  cool.  Strain  through  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth, letting  it  drip  of  its  own  accord.  Measure  the 
juice,  pour  it  back  into  the  kettle,  heat  the  sugar  in  the 
oven,  then  add  as  many  cups  of  sugar  as  there  are 
cups  of  juice.  The  juice  must  be  boiling  thirty  minutes 
before  adding  the  sugar.  Then  boil  ten  minutes, 
skimming  constantly.  Set  aside  and  when  somewhat 
cool,  pour  into  glasses.  Wild  grape  jelly  is  very  good, 
or  half  and  half. 

928.    PLUM'  JELLY. 

Slívový  rosol. 

Wash  and  stone  wild  or  ordinary  red  plums  and 
boil  with  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  soft.  Then 
strain  and  proceed  as  with  grape  jelly.  If  the  plums 
are  very  sweet,  they  will  not  require  as  much  sugar. 

929.    CHERRY   JELLY. 

Třešňový  rosol. 

Wash  and  stem  the  cherries,  mash  together  with 
the  pits,  let  them  stand  overnight.  Then  strain,  add 
one  part  of  currant  juice  to  three  parts  of  cherries, 
boil  and  strain.    Proceed  as  with  grape  jelly. 

930.    APPLE  JELLY. 

Jablkový  rosol. 

Use  ripe,  juicy,  tart  apples.  Peel  and  quarter, 
placing  them  in  cold  water  as  you  proceed,  in  order 
that  they  do  not  discolor.  Boil  until  tender,  strain 
through  the  bag  and  proceed  as  with  grape  jelly. 


JAMS.  287 

931.    CURRANT   JELLY. 

Ryhízový  rosol. 

Prepare  as  grape  jelly.  Blackberry,  raspberry 
or  strawberry  jelly  must  contain  a  fourth  or  more 
currant  juice,  otherwise  it  would  not  jell,  as  this  fruit 
is  not  acid  enough. 

932.    ELDERBERRY  JELLY. 

Bezinl'ovf/  rosol. 

Pick  over  and  wash  elderberries,  and  boil  with  a 
small  quantity  of  water.  At  the  same  time  peel, 
quarter  and  boil  apples.  When  the  elderberries  begin 
to  burst  and  the  water  is  highly  colored,  strain  and 
strain  the  apples  also.  To  one  part  of  elderberry  water 
use  three  parts  of  the  apple  water.  Now  add  one  part 
of  sugar  to  two  parts  of  the  water  and  boil,  stirring 
constantly,  until  of  the  proper  consistency. 

Jams. — Povidla. 

While  jellies  are  made  with  fruit  not  quite  ripe, 
jams  can  be  made  with  fruit  ripe  or  overripe,  but  of 
course  it  must  be  sound.  The  fruit  is  peeled  and 
stoned  or  pitted,  and  is  then  be  boiled  with  sugar  until 
thick. 

933.    GRAPE    JAM. 

Hroznová  povidla. 

Wash  and  stem  the  grapes,  squeeze  out  the  pulp, 
putting  the  skins  in  one  pan  and  the  rest  in  another. 
Boil  the  latter  without  adding  any  sugar  or  water, 
about  half  an  hour,  or  so  long  until  the  seeds  can  be 
pressed  out.  Strain  or  squeeze  through  a  cheesecloth. 
Place  the  juice  back  in  the  kettle,  add  the  skins,  and 
to  each  cup  of  fruit  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  or  more, 
to  taste.    Simmer  one  and  a  half  hours. 


288  BOHEMIAN-AM lOKK^AN  ťOOK  1U)0K. 

934.    CURRANT   JAM. 

liyhízová  povidla. 
Stem  and  wash  tlie  currants,  place  in  a  kettle, 
mash  and  boil.  When  they  have  been  boiling  a  short 
time,  add  sngar,  three  fonrths  of  a  cup  to  each  cup 
of  fruit.  Mash  with  a  wooden  masher  and  boil  slowly 
half  an  hour.    Gooseberry  jam  is  made  this  way  also. 

935.    RASPBERRY   JAM. 

Malinová  povidla. 

Wash  and  pick  over  the  berries,  mash  in  a  kettle 
and  when  they  have  boiled  a  short  while,  add  half  a 
cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  fruit,  then  boil  half  to  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Blackberry  and  strawberry  jam 
is  prepared  this  way  also. 

936.    APPLE    JAM. 

Jahlkovd  povidla. 

Peel  and  slice  the  apples,  put  them  'in  a  kettle 
with  a  small  quantity  of  water  (a  cup  of  water  to  a 
gallon  of  apples)  and  boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
often.  When  done,  strain  through  a  sieve  or  cheese- 
cloth and  place  back  in  the  kettle.  When  they  have 
boiled  a  short  time,  add  sugar,  (half  a  cup  of  sugar 
to  a  cup  of  fruit)  and  a  bit  of  grated  lemon  rind.  Boil 
half  or  three  quarters   of  an  hour,   stirring  often. 

937.    PLUM    JAM. 

Slívová  povidla. 

Wash  and  stone  ripe  plums  and  boil  with  a  small 
quantity  of  w^ater.  If  the  stones  cannot  be  taken  out 
easily,  boil  the  plums  whole.  When  soft  press  through 
a  sieve  and  place  back  in  the  kettle.  When  the  jam 
has  been  boiling  a  short  time,  add  half  a  cup  or  more 
of  sugar  to  a  cup,  of  fruit,  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and 
cloves  and  simmer  to  the  desired  thickness,  stirring 
often. 


i 


JAMS.  289 

938.    QUINCE   JAM. 

Kdoulová  povidla. 
Peel  and  quarter  ripe  quinces,  boil  soft,  drain  and 
press  through  a  sieve.     To  each  cup  of  fruit  add  three 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Boil  until  thick. 

939.  PEACH   JAM   No.    1. 

Bi'oskvova  povidla. 
Peel  and  stone  nice  ripe  peaches,    press    through 
a  sieve,  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  fruit  and 
let  it  boil  thick,  skimming  and  stirring  often. 

940.  PEACH   JAM   No.   2. 

Broskvová  povidla  na  jiný  způsob. 

Wash  and  rub  off  the  down,  quarter  and  place 
in  a  kettle  with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Simmer 
five  or  six  hours,  stirring  often. 

941.    TOMATO   JAM. 

Povidla  z  rajských  jablek. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  nice  ripe  tomatoes,  then 
skin  and  put  them  in  a  kettle,  mash  and  simmer  about 
forty-five  minutes.  Then  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  to 
each  cup  of  tomatoes,  sliced  lemon  (one  lemon  to  a 
gallon  of  tomatoes)  and  a  piece  of  whole  ginger.  Boil 
about  an  hour. 

942.    TOMATO    AND    APPLE    JAM. 

Povidla  z  rajských  jablek  a  jablek. 

Stew,  each  separately,  five  quarts  of  skinned 
tomatoes  and  six  quarts  of  peeled  and  quartered 
apples.  When  each  mixture  has  boiled  down  thick, 
mix  together,  add  six  pounds  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
of  cloves  and  three  of  cinnamon  (both  powdered)  and 
simmer  one  hour. 

Cook  Book  19 


290  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

Butters. — Másla. 

943.  ANCHOVY   BUTTER. 

Sardelové  máslo. 
Clean  and  bone  two   ounces    of  anchovies,    pound 
them  to  a  paste    with  a    bit  of    paprika,    then    cream 
smooth  with    half  a  pound  of  fresh    butter.     Put  in  a 
cold  place.    This  is  used  to  season  roasts  or  sauces. 

944.  PARSLSY    BUTTER. 

Petrželové  máslo. 
Mix  smooth  half  a  pound    of    butter,    two    table- 
spoons of  chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a 
dash    of    mace    and    salt.     Used    to    season    roasts    or 
sauces. 

945.  MUSTARD   BUTTER. 

Hořčičné  máslo. 
Cream  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  with  three 
hard-boiled  yolks  and  three  tablespoons  of  ground 
mustard,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  place  in  a  cold 
spot.  You  may  use  two  tablespoons  of  paprika  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  instead  of  the  mustard. 

946.    CHOCOLATE    BUTTER. 

Čokoládové   máslo. 
Cream  half  a  pound  of  fresh    butter    with    three 
hard-boiled  yolks  and  two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate. 
You    may    add    sugar    and    vanilla    flavoring,    if    you 
wish.    This  is  served  with  fresh  rolls  etc. 

Fruit  Sauces.— Kompoty. 

Fruit  sauces  (compotes)  are  for  immediate  use, 
therefore  they  are  not  boiled  as  long  as  preserves  etc., 
and  do  not  need  as  much  sugar. 

947.  CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Mechyňkovf/  kompot. 
Pick  over  and  wash  a  quart  of  cranberries,  cover 
them  with  cold    water,  add  a  pinch  of  soda    and  let 


FRUIT  SAUCES.  291 

tliein  lioil  until  they  burst,  tlien  add  two  cups  of  sugar 
and  simmer  one  hour. 

948.    RHUBARB    SAUCE. 

Reharborovif  Jiompot. 
Wash,  skin  and  cut  rhubarb  stalks  into  small 
pieces,  put  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  generously  with  sugar, 
cover  and  bake  in  the  oven  about  twenty-five  minutes, 
then  add  a  bit  of  grated  nutmeg.  If  necessary,  add 
more  sugar. 

949.  PEACH    SAUCE. 
Broskvový  kompot. 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  with  five  tablespoons  of 
water  about  ten  minutes.  In  the  meantime  peel,  stone 
and  halve  nice  ripe  peaches.  Place  them  in  the  boiling 
syrup  and  simmer  about  ten  minutes. 

950.  APPLE    SAUCE. 

JahlJvOvij  kompot. 
In  a  kettle  put  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of 
water,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  twelve  peeled  and 
quartered  tart  apples,  and  simmer  until  tender,  but 
not  mushy.  Then  take  the  apples  out  on  a  dish,  boil 
the  syrup  down  and  pour  over  the  apples.  You  may, 
add  a  piece  of  whole  cinnamon,  or  half  water  and  half 
white  wine,  if  you  wish. 

951.    PEAR   SAUCE. 

Hruškoví)  kompot. 
Peel  and  halve  the  pears,  take  out  the  seeds,  boil 
in  syrup,  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe,  adding 
a  piece  of  cinnamon  and  lemon  rind.  When  done, 
place  in  a  dish,  boil  the  syrup  down  and  pour  over 
the  fruit.  You  may  use  half  red  wine  and  half  water, 
instead  of  water,  and  you  may  boil  the  pears  whole, 
if  you  wish. 

952.    PRUNE    SAUCE. 

Švestkový  kompot. 
Halve    and    stone    fresh    prunes    (the    large    blue 
plums)  then  boil  with  sugar,  a  piece  each  of  whole  cinna- 


292  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

mon  and  lemon  rind.  When  done,  take  them  out  and  bolí 
the  syrup  down.  You  may  also  peel  the  plums,  leaving 
them  whole  and  simmer  them  in  red  sweet  wine. 

953.    CHERRY   SAUCE. 

Třešňový  kompot. 
Use  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  cup  of  water 
and  a  piece  each  of  whole  cinnamon  and  lemon  rind, 
to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  syrup  first,  then  add 
the  cherries,  letting  them  boil  quickly.  When  done, 
drain,  and  boil  the  syrup  down.  A  bit  of  red  wine 
adds  flavor. 

954.    BLACKBERRY   SAUCE. 

Ostružinový  kompot. 
Wash  and  drain  the  berries,  place  them  in  boiling 
syrup  as  directed  for  apple  sauce,  adding  a  piece  of 
cinnamon.  When  done,  drain,  boil  the  syrup  down, 
pour  it  over  the  fruit,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  garnish 
with  sliced  oranges.  You  may  use  half  water  and  half 
red  wine  and  lemon  rind  instead  of  cinnamon,  if  you 
wish. 

Preserves. — Zavařeniny. 
General  Directions. — Všeobecná  pravidla. 

Before  beginning  this  work,  look  over  the  jars. 
See  that  none  are  cracked  or  injured  in  any  way,  and 
that  each  has  the  proper  cover.  Never  use  old  rubber 
bands.  They  do  not  cost  much  and  it  is  far  cheaper 
to  buy  a  new  supply  each  time  than  to  waste  the  pre- 
serves. Fruit  for  preserving  should  be  sound,  ripe 
and  firm.  Juicy  fruit,  such  as  berries,  is  picked  over 
and  washed.  Larger  firmer  fruit,  as  apples,  quinces 
etc.  must  be  peeled  and  parboiled  first.  When  the 
fruit  is  preserved,  fill  the  jars  with  it,  having  first 
scalded  them  well.  It  is  best  to  have  several  jars  stand- 
ing in  a  large  pan  of  hot  water,  and  as  these  are  filled, 
replace  with  a  new  supply.     Have  ready    an  ordinary 


PRESERVES.  293 

boiler  for  clothes,  place  laths  or  straw  in  the  bottom, 
screw  the  covers  loosely  on  the  ,iars  and  put  same  in  the 
boiler,  having  filled  them  with  the  preserved  fruit. 
Pour  in  cold  water  so  it  reaches  about  an  inch 
lower  than  the  lower  edge  of  the  covers,  and  when  it 
has  come  to  a  boil,  boil  ten  minutes,  then  take  out  the 
jars,  and  when  cold,  tighten  the  covers  thoroughly. 
When  entirely  cold,  dip  the  top  of  each  jar  in  melted 
paraffin,  being  careful  to  coat  the  space  around  the 
lower  edge  of  the  cover.  Then  put  the  preserves  away 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Examine  them  within  a  few  days 
and  occasionally  thereafter,  for  if  they  ferment  and 
you  discover  it  in  time,  you  may  remedy  the  matter 
by  boiling  the  fruit  over  and  resealing.     . 

955.    PRESERVED    STRAWBERRIES. 

Zavařené  jahody. 

Pick  over  ten  or  twelve  quarts  of  berries,  wash 
and  drain  well.  Boil  two  pounds  of  white  sugar  with 
half  a  cup*  of  water  ten  minutes  in  an  enameled  kettle. 
Now  add  the  berries  to  the  boiling  syrup  and  boil 
about  twenty-five  minutes,  skimming  often,  but  not 
stirring,  so  as  not  to  mash  the  fruit.  Then  take  the 
berries  out  with  a  skimmer,  put  them  in  the  jars, 
being  careful  not  to  break  them,  boil  the  syrup  down, 
pour  it  over  the  fruit,  filling  each  jar  quite  full.  Place 
the  jars  in  the  boiler  and  proceed  as  directed. 

956.    PRESERVED   PEACHES. 

Zavařené  broskve. 

Peel,  halve  and  stone  the  peaches,  place  them  in 
cold  water.  Boil  to  a  syrup  a  pound  of  sugar  with 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  water.  Fill  the  jars  with  fruit, 
putting  a  layer  of  sugar  on  each  layer  of  fruit,  fill  the 
jar  with  hot  syrup,  cover,  put  them  in  the  boiler  and 
proceed  as  directed. 


294  1U)HEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

957.    PRESERVED   PEARS. 

Zavařené  hrušhi/. 
Use  firm  pears,  the  soft  kind  will  hoil  mushy. 
Peel,  halve  or  quarter,  take  out  the  seeds,  and  place 
in  cold  water.  Boil  one  quart  of  sugar  with  two  table- 
spoons of  water,  then  place  two  quarts  of  fruit  in 
the  boiling  syrup  and  simmer  several  hours.  Then  pro- 
ceed as  directed. 

958.    PRESERVED    CRAB    APPLES. 

Zavařená  pláňata. 
These  are  preserved  in  the  same  manner  as  pears, 
but  more    water   must    be    used,  a  cup    of    water  to  a 
quart    of    sugar.     Crab    apples    are    preserved    whole, 
stems  and  all. 

959.    PRESERVED   PLUMS. 

Zavařené   slívy. 
Pour  hot  water  over  the    plums,    skin    and    then 
proceed  as  with  peaches. 

960.    PRESERVED    APPLES.    ' 

Zavařená  jablka. 
Use  nice,  juicy,  rather  sweet  apples.  Peel,  quarter, 
take  out  the  seeds  and  place  immediately  in  cold  water. 
Put  as  much  water  in  a  kettle  as  there  is  fruit,  and 
use  a  quart  of  sugar  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Boil  to  a 
syrup,  skimming  often,  then  add  the  fruit,  a  few 
pieces  of  whole  cinnamon  and  boil  until  the  apples 
are  tender.     Fill  the  jars  and  proceed  as  directed. 

961.    PRESERVED   CHERRIES. 

Zavařené  třesné. 
Wash  and  pit  the  cherries,   then  proceed  as  with 
plums,  using  less  water,  as  the    cherries    are    juicier. 

962.    PRESERVED   PEARSHAPED   TOMATOES. 

Zavařovaná  malá  rajská  jablíčka. 
At  night  pour  hot  water  on  small,    yellow,  pear- 
shaped  tomatoes.     These  must  not  be  too  ripe.    Skin, 


^      PICKLES.  295 

prick  each  with  a  large  needle,  and  sprinkle  with  as 
much  sugar  as  there  are  tomatoes,  according  to  weight. 
In  the  morning  drain  off  the  juice  and  boil  it  to  a 
syrup.  Then  add  the  tomatoes,  a  piece  of  lemon  rind 
and  whole  ginger,  and  simmer  until  the  tomatoes  are 
transparent.    Seal  hot. 

963.    PRESERVED    WATERMELON    RIND. 

Zavařený  vodní  meloun. 

Pare  off  the  green  rind  and  all  the  red  meat, 
leaving  only  the  firm  white  part.  Cut  into  large  dice, 
about  an  inch  or  so  square.  Prepare  a  syrup  of  four 
cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water,  place  the  rind  in 
the  boiling  syrup  and  simmer  four  hours.  Then  add 
a  large  sliced  lemon  (or  two  small  ones),  four  table- 
spoons of  raisins,  and  simmer  one  and  a  half  hours 
longer.    When  done,  it  should  be  yellow  and  clear. 

Pickles.  -Naloženiny. 

964.    PICKLED   PEACHES. 

Naložené  hrosl've. 
Use  ripe,  hard,  clingstone  peaches.  Rub  off  the 
down  with  a  dry  cloth.  To  eight  pounds  of  fruit  use 
four  pounds  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  whole  cinna- 
mon and  a  quart  of  vinegar.  Boil  this  five  minutes.  Then 
stick  two  whole  cloves  into  each  peach,  place  them  in 
the  boiling  syrup,  and  when  tender  (try  them  with  a 
fork)  take  them  out,  put  them  in  jars,  boil  the  syrup 
down,  pour  over  the  fruit  and  then  finish  in  the  boiler, 
as  directed  in  Greneral  Directions,  page  292. 

965.    PICKLED   GRAPES. 

Naložené  vinné  hrozny. 
Wash  and  stem  sound,  hard  grapes.  Place  them  in 
a  stone  jar.    Boil  together  vinegar,  whole  pepper,  all- 
spice, cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste.   When  this  has  been 
boiling  half  an  hour,  pour  it  over  the  grapes.     When 


296  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

cool,  tie  a  cloth  over  the  jar  and  put  it  in  a  cool  place. 
The  grapes  must  be  covered  with  the  vinegar  and 
weighted  down.  Put  a  plate  in  the  jar  and  a  stone 
on  top  of  it. 

966.    GREEN   TOMATO   PICKLE. 

Naložená  zelená  rajshá  jablíčka. 
Boil  together  ten  minutes  one  gallon  of  green 
tomatoes  sliced,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  quart  of 
sugar,  a  fourth  of  a  cup  of  mustard  seed,  two  tea- 
spoons of  whole  allspice,  one  teaspoon  of  ground 
pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  twelve  sliced  onions. 
Then  put  this  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover. 

967.  PICKLED    TOMATOES    No.    1. 

Naložená  rajská  jablíčka. 
.  Wash  and  dry  medium-sized  tomatoes,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  let  them  stand  thus  four  hours.  Then 
boil  a  sufficient  quantity  of  good  vinegar  and  when 
cool,  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  The  next  day  drain  off 
the  vinegar,  boil,  cool  and  pour  on  the  tomatoes 
again.  The  third  day  boil  a  fresh  quantity  of  vinegar 
and  when  cool  pour  it  on  the  tomatoes,  in  glass  jars, 
filling  them  up  to  two  inches  from  the  top.  Place 
these  in  a  boiler  with  cold  water  and  boil  five  minutes 
after  the  water  has  begun  to  boil.  Then  take  out  the 
jars,  put  a  rubber  band  on  each,  tighten  the  covers, 
place  the  jars  back  in  the  boiler  and  let  them  stand  in 
it  until  the  water  cools.  Tomatoes  pickled  thus  keep 
very  well. 

968.  PICKLED   TOMATOES   No.   2. 

Naložená  rajská  jablíčka  na  jiný  způsob. 
Wash  and  dry  tomatoes  that  are  not  too  ripe. 
Have  ready  a  three-gallon  stone  jar  and  put  the 
tomatoes  in  it.  Boil  a  sufficient  quantity  of  vinegar 
and  pour  hot  on  the  tomatoes.  Cover  with  a  plate, 
so  they  cool  slowly.  Tie  a  cloth  over  the  jar  and  put 
it  in  a  cool  place.    They  keep  well. 


PICKLES.  297 

969.    PICKLED    TOMATOES    No.   3. 

Naložená  rajská  jahlívka  ještě  na  jiný  způsob. 
Select  ripe,  firm  tomatoes,  wash  and  dry  and  place 
in  glass  or  stone  jars.  Boil  vinegar  with  salt,  whole 
pepper,  allspice  and  cloves  to  taste  and  when  cool, 
pour  over  the  tomatoes,  which  must  be  covered  with 
it.  Now  cover  the  top  with  melted  butter  or  suet.  You 
may  use  equal  parts  of  water  and  vinegar,  using  more 
salt  in  this  case.    Cover  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

970.    PICKLED   WATERMELON. 

Naložený  vodní  meloun. 
Pare  the  green  rind  away  and  cut  off  all  the  meat, 
leaving  only  the  white  firm  rind.  Cut  into  small 
pieces,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  with  vinegar  and 
water  to  taste,  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  it  on  to  boil,  adding  three  pounds  of  sugar 
to  four  pounds  of  melon,  half  a  lemon,  several  pieces 
of  whole  cinnamon  and  about  eight  cloves.  Simmer 
slowly  until  it  becomes  a  reddish  color  and  the  juice 
juS  a  thick  syrup.  Stir  occasionally.  When  cool,  put 
in  stone  jars,  cover  these  and  put  them  in  a  cool  place. 

971.    PICKLES. 

Naložené  okurky. 

Wash  the  cucumbers  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar. 
Boil  water  with  a  generous  quantity  of  salt  and  pour 
hot  on  the  cucumbers  to  cover  them.  You  may  add  dill 
seed  or  the  plant  itself,  if  you  wish.  Cover  with  a 
plate  and  stone.  In  three  or  four  days  fill  glass  jars 
with  the  pickles,  cover  with  boiled  vinegar  and  put 
away. 

972.   DILL    PICKLES. 
Naložené  oharky  s  koprem. 

Place  the  cucumbers  in  cold  water  in  the  evening. 
While  they  are  soaking  prepare  a  salt  brine  strong 
enough  to  float  an  egg.  Then  wash  the  cucumbers 
well  and  put  them  in  the  brine.    In  the  morning  wipe 


298  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

tliem  dry  and  put  them  in  a  five  gallon  keg,  putting 
a  layer  of  dill  over  each  layer  of  cucumbers.  Fasten 
the  cover  on  tight.  Boil  water  and  vinegar,  one  part 
vinegar  to  three  of  water,  with  whole  pepper  and 
allspice.  Cool  and  pour  on  the  cucumbers  through  the 
bunghole  in  the  top  of  the  keg.  Cork  tight.  Two  pails 
of  cucumbers  will  be  enough  for  a  five  gallon  keg. 
These  will  last  a  long  time,  if  not  exposed  to  the  air. 

973,    DILL    SUMMER    PICKLES. 

Láčené  okurky. 
Use  medium-sized  cucumbers.  Line  the  bottom  of 
a  stone  jar  with  green  dill  and  grapevine  leaves,  or 
cherry  leaves.  Now  put  in  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  then  a 
layer  of  dill  and  leaves  and  so  proceed.  Boil  water 
with  a  generous  quantity  of  salt  and  a  small  amount 
of  sugar  (a  tablespoonful  to  four  gallons).  When 
cool,  pour  over  the  cucumbers.  Place  two  or  three  crusts 
of  rye  bread  in  the  vinegar,  put  a  plate  and  stone  on 
top,  to  keep  the  pickles  submerged,  and  put  away  in 
a  cool  place.  They  can  be  eaten  in  a  week  and  taste 
best  when  two  weeks  old,  after  that  they  get  too  sour. 

974.    SWEET    PICKLES. 

Naložené  okůrčičky  na  sladko. 
Use  the  smallest  kind  of  cucumbers.  Pour  boiling- 
water  over  them  and  let  them  stand  four  hours.  Boil 
vinegar  with  sugar  and  spices,  using  a  cup  of  sugar 
to  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  a  cup  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of 
pulverized  alum,  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  stick,  a  table- 
spoon of  whole  cloves.  Simmer  all  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Put  the  cucumbers  in  glass  jars,  pour  the 
hot  vinegar  over  them  and  fasten  the  tops  tightly. 

975.    SWEET   PICKLED    CUCUMBERS. 

Zralé   oJciirky   íialožené   na  sladko. 
Peel  and  halve  large,  ripe,  yellow  cucumbers,  take 
out  the  seeds,  cut  into  pieces  and  soak  about  an  hour 
in  salted  water.     Then  pour  boiling  water  over  them 


PICKLES.  299 

and  let  thorn  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain 
and  simmer  in  the  following:  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
a  pint  of  liot  water,  two  heaping  cups  of  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoon  of  cloves,  a  teaspoon  of 
black  pepper,  a  teaspoon  of  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  handful 
of  raisins.  When  tender  add  a  pint  of  fresh  vinegar  and 
put  in  jars. 

976.    PICKLED   ONIONS. 

Naložené   cibulky. 

Peel  small  white  onions  and  boil  ten  minutes  in 
half  milk  and  half  water,  adding  a  dash  of  salt.  Then 
drain,  put  in  glass  jars  and  cover  with  hot  spiced 
vinegar.  Do  not  use  any  allspice,  as  it  would  darken 
the  onions.    Seal  hot. 

977,    PICKLED   CAULIFLOWER. 

Naložený  kai'fiol. 
Select  young  and  crisp  cauliflower,  clean  it  and 
cut  into  small  pieces,  about  one  and  a  half  inches 
long,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  it  stand  thus  sixteen 
hours.  Then  drain,  pour  on  fresh  water  and  drain  and 
so  continue  until  the  salty  flavor  has  been  washed 
away,  draining  thoroughly  at  last.  In  the  meantime 
boil  the  vinegar,  adding  to  each  cupful  of  same  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  spices  to  taste  (a  tablespoon  of  each  to  four 
cups  of  vinegar).  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  over  the 
cauliflower  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Seal  hot. 

978.    CAULIFLOWER   PICKLED  IN  MUSTARD. 

Karfiol  naložený  v  hořčici. 
Prepare  as  dii-ected  in  the  preceding  recipe,  using 
less  sugar.  When  it  has  been  boiling  about  ten 
minutes,  add  the  following:  to  one  head  of  cauliflower 
mix  smooth  two  cups  of  vinegar,  a  cup  of  sugar,  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  two  tablespoons  of  dry  mustard, 
and  seal. 


300  BOHEMIAN-AMEEICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

979.    PICKLED   MUSHROOMS. 

Naložené  liouhy. 
Wash,  cut  off  the  stems  and  put  the  mushrooms 
in  cold  water.  Boil  together  vinegar,  sliced  onion, 
whole  pepper,  allspice  and  salt,  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil,  add  the  mushrooms  and  let  them  simmer  five 
minutes.  Then  drain,  put  them  in  glass  jars,  pour 
over  them  the  cooled  vinegar  with  which  you  have 
boiled  a  few  cloves  and  whole  peppers  and  seal. 

980.    PICKLED    DILL. 

Naložený  hopr. 
Wash  the  fresh  dill  leaves,  put  in  a  kettle,  cover 
with  wine  vinegar,  a  few  whole  peppers  and  cloves 
and  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Take  off  the  stove,  cool, 
put  into  jars  and  cover  tight.  The  dill  must  be 
submerged  in  the  vinegar  and  if  this  dries  out,  add 
more. 

981.  CHOW-CHOW. 

Ůaii-čau. 
Chop  half  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  large 
head  of  cabbage,  a  dozen  ripe  and  a  dozen  green 
peppers  and  a  dozen  onions,  each  separately,  then  mix, 
salt,  put  in  a  sack  and  let  the  contents  drain  over 
night.  In  the  morning  squeeze  dry,  put  in  a  kettle, 
cover  with  cold  vinegar,  let  it  stand  six  hours  and  then 
squeeze  dry  again.  Then  add  a  cup  of  whole  and  a  cup 
of  ground  cinnamon,  three  tablespoons  of  celery  seed, 
a  tablespoon  of  ground  mace,  three  tablespoons  of 
allspice  and  a  quart  of  grated  horseradish.  Mix  well, 
place  in  glass  or  stone  jars  and  cover  with  hot  vinegar 
boiled  with  a  pound  of  sugar.  *  The  chowchow  must  be 
covered  with  the  vinegar.  When  cool  put  into  jars  and 
cover  these. 

982.  SOURKRAUT. 

Kyselé  zelí. 
Take  off  the  outer  leaves,  quarter    the   heads  of 
cabbage,  and  cut  out  the    stalks.    Slice  fine,    using  a 


PICKLES.  301 

sourkraut  cutter.  The  cutter  is  placed  over  a  tub  and 
the  kraut  sliced  into  same.  When  the  desired  quantity 
has  been  sliced,  work  in  salt,  using  a  pound  and  a  half 
to  five  dozen  large  heads,  two  tablespoons  of  caraway 
seed  and  the  same  amount  of  dill  seed.  Mix  well  with 
the  kraut.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  firm  oak  barrel,  or 
keg,  or  large  stone  jar  with  nice  whole  cabbage  leaves. 
Put  in  a  layer  of  kraut,  pound  thoroughly  with  a  heavy 
wooden  masher,  put  in  another  layer  and  pound,  and 
so  proceed  until  the  keg  is  full.  Do  not  put  in  too 
large  a  layer,  as  the  kraut  must  be  pounded  until  it 
exudes  moisture.  Cover  with  whole  cabbage  leaves, 
then  with  a  clean  white  wet  cloth,  put  on  a  lid  that 
fits  inside  of  the  barrel  and  place  on  the  top  of  this 
a  heavy  weight.  Place  the  barrel  in  a  warm  spot  and 
let  it  stand  there  eight  days  until  the  kraut  ferments, 
then  put  it  in  a  cool  spot,  where  it  will  not  freeze.  Every 
time  you  take  any  kraut,  level  the  top  and  put  a  clean 
white  wet  cloth  on  it,  washing  the  cloth  each  time. 
If  you  make  a  large  quantity  that  lasts  quite  a  while, 
you  must  wash  the  board  and  stone  occasionally.  If 
the  kraut  dries,  you  must  add  water.  Some  house- 
wives add  fennel  seed,  mustard,  pepper  or  juniper 
berries.  Peeled  and  grated  apples,  added  to  each 
layer,  give  a  good  flavor.  If  you  put  the  kraut  in  a 
barrel  that  contained  white  wine,  the  flavor  will  be 
better.  Do  not  use  too  much  salt,  in  that  case  the 
kraut  will  not  ferment.  It  is  better  to  use  several 
smaller  kegs  than  one  large  barrel.  You  may  put  the 
kraut  in  large  stone  jars,  if  you  wish. 

983.    STUFFED   PICKLED    MANGOES. 

Naložená  nadívaná  yaprika. 

Select  large  fine  mangoes  or  green  peppers,  slit 
each  in  the  side  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Cover  with 
salted  water  and  let  them  soak  six  days,  renewing  the 
water  a  few  times.   Chop  fine  onion,  cabbage,  tomatoes. 


a02  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

carrots,'  kernels  of  corn,  and  small  onions,  grate  a 
piece  of  horseradish,  mix  well,  add  mustard,  celery 
seed  and  curry  powder  to  taste.  Drain  the  mangoes, 
dust  inside  with  pepper,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  fill 
with  the  mixture  and  sew  up  the  slits.  Arrange  in  a 
stone  jar,  cover  with  boiled  and  cooled  spiced  vinegar, 
cover  and  put  away  in  a  cool  place. 

Beverages. — Nápoje. 

984.    COFFEE. 

Káva. 

For  five  cups  of  coffee  three  heaping  tablespoons 
of  coarsely  ground  coffee  are  generally  used.  Add  the 
coffee  to  water  boiling  in  the  pot,  let  it  boil  up  a 
few  times,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  let  it  settle.  A 
bit  of  cold  water  added  after  it  is  done,  or  a  small 
quantity  of  the  white  of  an  egg,  or  a  bit  of  whole 
beaten  Qgg  mixed  with  water,  stirred  into  the  coffee 
grounds  before  boiling,   clears  coffee. 

985.  FRENCH  COFFEE. 

Káva  po  francouzsl'ii. 

For  this  you  must  use  the  coffeepot  for  the 
purpose,  which  has  a  small  muslin  bag,  attached 
inside.  This  has  to  be  washed  each  time  after  using  it. 
The  coffee  must  be  ground  fine.  Put  it  in  the  bag,  pour 
in  the  requisite  amount  of  boiling  water,  let  the  pot 
stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  a  few  moments  (it  must 
not  boil)  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Pouring  the  clear 
coffee  over  the  bag  once  more  makes  it  stronger. 

986.    TURKISH    COFFEE. 

Káva  po  tur  echu. 

Use  the  requisite  amount  of  ground  coffee,  adding 
to  each  cup  a  teaspoon  of  pulverized  coffee  and  a 
piece  of  sugar.  Boil  two  minutes  and  pour  unstrained 
into  cups.    You  may  add  a  few  drops  of  orange  juice. 


BEVERAGES.  303 

987.    TEA. 

Caj. 
There  are  several  different  kinds  of  tea,  the 
principal  ones  being  black  or  green.  On  the  continent 
tea  is  served  with  rum  and  lemon,  but  in  England  and 
America  cream  is  used  instead.  Use  a  teaspoon  of  tea 
to  three  cups  of  water.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the 
tea  leaves,  let  it  steep  a  few  moments  and  serve 
immediately. 

988.    TEA  WITH   EGGS. 

Caj  s  vejci. 
Prepare  tea  as  directed  in  the  preceding  recipe, 
strain,  add  sugar  and  cream,  or  rum  and  lemon  juice. 
Beat  several  yolks  with  a  bit  of  cold  water,  pour  them 
into  the  tea,  beating  constantly.  Beat  over  the  fire 
until  it  foams,   (it  must  not  boil)-,  and  serve. 

989.    COCOA. 

Kahao. 
It  is  better  to  buy  the  whole  cocoa  beans,  roast 
them  in  the  oven  as  coffee  beans,  and  then  grind  them 
to  a  powder.  The  prepared  cocoa  is  not  as  pure.  Use 
one  teaspoon  of  ground  cocoa  to  each  cup  of  milk. 
When  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  cocoa  which 
has  been  mixed  smooth  with  hot  or  cold  water.  This 
is  the  average  proportion,  it  can  be  varied  to  suit  the 
individual  taste. 

990.    CHOCOLATE. 

GohoUda. 
Melt  a  pound  of  grated  sweet  chocolate  in  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  stirring  constantly,  then  serve  with 
sugar  and  hot  cream.  Or  you  may  boil  half  a  .pound 
of  grated  chocolate  in  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream.  When 
it  has  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  a  pint  of  cream,  beat 
smooth  and  serve.  You  may  beat  in  a  few  beaten 
yolks.  Some  housewives  boil  a  bit  of  vanilla  bean  with 
the  chocolate.    Sen^e  with  whipped  cream. 


304  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  BOOK. 

991.    ALMOND   MILK. 

Mandlové  mléko. 

Pound  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of  blanched  sweet 
almonds  to  a  paste,  adding  a  few  drops  of  water  while 
pounding,  in  order  that  they  do  not  become  oily.  Place 
in  a  saucepan,  add  a  quart  of  water,  stir  well,  let  it 
stand  a  while,  then  strain  through  a  fine  cloth  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  A  few  bitter  almonds  add  flavor, 
but  these  must  be  omitted  when  preparing  the  milk 
for  people  who  are  ill. 

992.    HARVEST  DRINK. 

Nápoj  ženců. 
Add  a  tablespoon  of  ground  and  sifted  ginger  to 
a  quart  of  cold  water,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and 
a  cup  of  vinegar.    Very  pleasant  and  wholesome. 

993.    LEMONADE. 

Limonáda. 
Add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  six  tablespoons 
of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  water.  Let  it  stand  until  the 
sugar  dissolves,  stir  thoroughly  and  serve.  The  water 
should  be  very  cold,  or  contain  ice.  Hot  lemonade  is 
made  in  the  same  manner,  using  hot  w^ter  of  course. 
For  orangeade  use  oranges. 

994.    CLARET  CUP. 

Limonáda  s  vínem. 
Prepare    lemonade    as    directed    in    the    preceding 
recipe,  using  however,  half  water  and  half  claret  wine. 
The    addition    of   a    few    strawberries,    raspberries    or 
pieces  of  pineapple  adds  a  good  flavor. 

995.    FRUIT   LEMONADE. 

Ovocná  limonáda. 
To  a  quart  of  cold  water  add  a  cup  of  raspberry, 
blackberry,  strawberry,  cherry,    currant  or  other  fruit 
juice,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  sweeten  to  taste,    mix 
and  serve. 


BEVERAGES.  305 

996.    GROG. 

Grog. 

Dissolve  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  a 
quart  of  boiling  water,  add  a  pint  of  good  rum  or  arac, 
let  it  heat  thoroughly  and  serve  hot.  You  may  add 
lemon  juice  to  taste. 

997.    SPICED   WINE. 

Kořeněné  vino. 

To  two  bottles  of  red  sour  wine  add  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  a  piece  of 
cinnamon  and  several  cloves.  Place  on  the  back  of 
stove,  so  it  blends  together,  but  it  must  not  boil.  Strain 
and  serve  hot. 

998.    CHERRY   LIQUOR. 

Yimovlca. 

Fill  a  large  glass  jar  or  bottle  half  full  with  ripe 
pitted  cherries,  add  sugar  to  taste  (half  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  two  pounds  of  fruit  is  the  average)  a  few 
pieces  of  cinnamon,  a  few  cloves,  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  sweet  flag  and  a  few  cracked  cherry  pits.  Fill 
the  bottle  with  good  rye  whiskey  or  wine  alcohol, 
cork  tight  and  set  in  a  place  where  the  sun  shines. 
Shake  occasionally.  It  is  ready  for  use  in  three  weeks. 

999.    DANDELION   WINE. 

Pampeliškové  víno. 
To  a  market  basket  of  dandelion  leaves,  add  five  gal- 
lons of  cold  water  and  boil  one  hour.  Then  let  it  stand 
twelve  hours,  or  over  night,  and  strain.  Then  add 
seven  pounds  of  white  sugar  and  five  pounds  of  brown, 
the  pulp  of  half  a  dozen  oranges  chopped  fine,  and 
the  same  of  five  lemons,  stir  and  when  the  sugar  has 
dissolved,  place  in  a  jug  to  ferment.  When  it  has 
fermented,  cork  tight. 

Cook  Book  20 


:{0f)  BOHEMIAN-AMERICAN  COOK  ÉOOK. 

1000.    ELDER  BLOSSOM  WINE. 

Bezinkové  víno. 
Pick  over  ten  quarts  of  nice  elder  blossoms.  Put 
five  gallons  of  water  to  boil.  When  it  boils  add  the 
blossoms,  stir  thoroughly,  take  the  kettle  off  the  stove, 
cover  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  The  next 
day  strain  through  a  four  sack  into  a  vessel.  Put 
five  gallons  of  water  to  boil,  add  twenty-five  or 
thirty  pounds  of  sugar,  seven  large  or  ten  small 
lemons,  sliced  and  seeded,  and,  of  you  like,  a  quan- 
tity of  raisins.  Boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain 
and  cool  and  add  it  to  the  elder  blossom  water.  The 
lemons  must  not  soak  too  long,  or  they  will  impart 
a  bitter  flavor.  When  the  mixture  has  become  tepid, 
add  five  cakes  of  dissolved  compressed  yeast,  stir 
well,  cover  and  let  it  stand  a  few  hours.  When  it 
begins  to  foam,  strain  into  a  keg  but  do  not  cork.  As 
the  wine  ferments,  the  quantity  lessens  somewhat,  so 
reserve  enough  to  add,  keeping  the  keg  full.  If  you 
do  not  have  enough,  boil  water  and  sugar  and  use  that. 
When  the  wine  ferments  but  slightly,  put  the  cork  in 
the  opening,  but  do  not  press  it  in.  As  the  fermenting 
grows  weaker,  tighten  the  cork.  When  you  see  that 
the  wine  does  not  ferment  at  all,  cork  tightly.  Let  it 
stand  two  months,  then  drain  with  the  aid  of  a  small 
hose  into  another  keg,  as  the  bottom  of  the  first  keg 
will  be  covered  with  a  sediment.  It  can  than  be  used, 
but  the  older  it  is,   the  better. 


CONTENTS 

Pages 

Meat  Soups,  Recipes  1 — 37 8 — 20 

Lenten  Soups,  Recipes  38 — 67 20 — 28 

Sauces  for  Beef,  Recipes  68—95   28—35 

Beef,  Recipes  96—138   35-^9 

Pork,  Recipes  139—181 50—63 

Veal,  Recipes  182—225 63—76 

Mutton,  Recipes  226—247 77—83 

Lamb,  Recipes  248—260 84—87 

Poultry,  Recipes  261—305  88—102 

Game,  Recipes  306—332  102—110 

Fish,  Recipes  333—396 : 111—129 

Oysters,  Shell  Fish,  Frogs,  etc.,  Recipes  397^20 130—136 

Eggs,  Recipes  421—458 136—145 

Vegetables,  Recipes  459—550 146—168 

Salads,  Recipes  551—580  169—176 

Cold  Sauces  for  Meats  or  Salads,  Recipes  581—595 176—180 

Dumplings,  Recipes  596 — 623  180 — 188 

Pancakes,  Recipes  624—633 189—191 

Porridges,  Recipes  634—647  191—194 

Noodles,  etc..  Recipes  648—656 195—197 

Strudels,  Recipes  657—667 197—201 

Puff  Paste  and  Pies,  Recipes  668—693  201—209 

Puffs,  Recipes  694—703 209—212 

Puddings  (puffed).  Recipes  704—718 212—217 

Puddings  (baked).  Recipes  719—728  218—220 

Puddings  (boiled).  Recipes  729—731  221—222 

Fritters,  Fritures,  Toast,  etc.,  Recipes  732—750 222—227 

Yeast,  Bread,  Biscuits,  Rolls,  etc.,  Recipes  751—785 227—240 

Raised  Tarts  and  Cakes,  Recipes  786—806  240—249 

Doughnuts  and  other  Fried   Cakes,  Recipes  807—815 249—253 

Cakes    (layer),  Recipes  816—826 253—257 

Cakes  (loaf),  Recipes  827—849  258—265 

Cookies,  Small  Cakes,  Confectionery,  etc.,  Recipes  850—890  265—277 

Sweet  Sauces  and  Custards,  Recipes  891—905 277—280 

Fillings  for  Tarts,  Recipes  906—920  281—284 

Frostings,  Recipes  921—926 284—285 

Fruit  Jellies,  Recipes  927—932 285—287 

Jams,  Recipes  933—942 287—289 

Butters,  Recipes  943—946 290 

Fruit  Sauces,  Recipes  947—954 , 290—292 

Preserves,  Recipes  955—963 292—295 

Pickles,  Recipes  964—983 295—302 

Beverages,  Recipes  984—1000  302—306 


INDEX 


Pao:e 

Almond   Cakes    2(57 

"  Darioles    272 

"  Crescents    274 

Milk   304 

Almonds,  Sugared    275 

Anchovy   Butter    290 

Anise  Pretzels    271 

Apple  Balls,  Fried 224 

''      Butter    281 

Asparag-us,  Boiled    154 

with  Butter  Gravy    155 

'  ^       Mushrooms    155 

Bacon,  Baked 55 

Fried  55 

Bass,  Boiled 121 

Stewed    121 

with  Oysters   122 

Bavarian   Cakes    270 

Beans   (Green)    159 

(Lima)    159 

(String)     159 

with  Sour  Gravy    159 

"       Sour  Cream  Gravy...  159 

Beef,   a  la  Mode    44 

a   la   Venison    40 

Boiled    35 

Chipped,  with   Cream 46 

Corned,  Boiled    45 

Corned,   with   Cabbage 45 

How  to   Corn    45 — 46 

Hash    47 

"      Baked    47 

Irish  Stew 44 

Jellied   44 

Loaf   47 

Pickled    46 

Ril)S 46 

Rolled   39 

Rolls 36 

Rolls,  of  Boiled  Beef 37 


Page 

Beef,  Roasted,  American  Style  39 

Roasted,  Bohemian  Style...   38 

''  with  Sour  Cream.   39 

Stewed  No.  1 35 

"       No.  2 36 

"      No.  3 36 

' '       with   Bread    44 

Tenderloin  No.  1    37 

"  No  2    38 

with  Sour  Gravy   40 

Kidneys   47 

"         with  Cream  Gravy  48 

Tongue 49 

''        with  Polish  Gravy.   49 
^'  '^       Sauce      or 

Horseradish   49 

Udder,  Fried 48 

Beef  Sauces  and  Gravies   (See 
Sauces  for  Beef). 

Beefsteak,   40 

Baked 42 

Broiled    41 

Fried   41 

Stewed  42 

with  Sour  Gravy .  42 

Biscuits,  Baking  Powder 235" 

Bohemian,  with  Jam 237 

Potato   (Raised)    236 

Raised  236 

Soda  No.  1    236 

''      No.  2   236 

Bishop's  Bread  273 

Bread,  Bishop's   273 

Boston  Brown 232 

Brown   232 

Corn  No.  1    234 

''      No.  2   234 

"      No.  3    234 

''      No.  4   ....Í 234 

"      Steamed    235 


I 


Pa^e 

Bread,  Graham  232 

Hot  Cross    249 

Imperial    273 

Milk  Sponge   231 

Potato   Sponge    231 

Rye  No.  1 232 

''     No.  2   233 

Wheat  No.  1  230 

No.  2 231 

Bread  Sticks   237 

Batter,  Anchovy 290 

Apple   '.281 

Chocolate    290 

Mustard 290 

Parsley   290 

Cabbage,  Boiled  No.  1   1G6 

"       No.   2 166 

Sour   167 

Stewed  167 

Cake   (Layer)   Gen.  Directions  253 

Black  ' 257 

Chocolate  No.  1   254 

"  No.  2    254 

'■'  No.  3 254 

Cocoanut    255 

Gold    256 

Jelly  255 

Lemon  No.   1    255 

''       No.  2   256 

Ribbon   257 

Silver    256 

Cake    (Loaf),  Almond    261 

Angel  Food   260 

Cocoanut  No.  1 258 

"         No.  2 258 

Cream   263 

Crown   259 

French   263 

Fruit   261 

Hazel  Nut   262 

Marble  No.  1    259 

''        No.  2   259 

May  260 

Milfoil    262 

Molasses   (Bohemian)    264 


Page 

Cake,  Plain   260 

Potato   265 

Pound    261 

Snow   259 

Sponge    262 

Sponge  (Bohemian)   265 

Wedding    258 

Cake   (Raised)   No.  1    245 

No.  2  246 

No.  3  246 

with  Almonds   247 

"      Cherries    247 

Crown   248 

"        with  Poppy  Seed..  .248 

Cakes  Bavarian    270 

Fried   250 

Raised,  General  Directions  240 

(Raised)    Stuffed    245 

Calf's    Brains,    with    Eggs....   75 

''        Fried 76 

"        Toast    76 

Feet,  Fried    76 

Liver  with   Cream    73 

'  ^      and  Bacon   73 

''      Stewed    74 

Tongue    76 

Candy,  Chocolate   275 

Cocoanut    276 

Caramels,  Chocolate    276 

Cards    272 

Carp,  Blued   113 

Fried   113 

Jellied 114 

Marinated     114 

Stuffed  and  Baked   115 

with  Brown  Gravy 115 

' '      Cream  Sauce 114 

Carrots    163 

with  Green  Peas   164 

(^atfish    125 

Catsup  No.   1    34 

"        No.  2   34 

Cauliflower    153 

Creamed    154 


Page 

Cauliflower,  Fried   154 

with   Gravy 154 

Celestial  Crusts  No.  1    251 

No.  2   251 

Cherry   Liquor    305 

Cherry  Crusts   224 

Chicken,   Broiled    .' 88 

Fried   88 

Roasted     88 

Roasted,  with  Gravy 88 

Stewed    89 

Stuffed 89 

with  BroAvn   Gravy 89 

"      Cauliflower    92 

' '      Dumpling's    91 

^ '      Herring-    95 

''      Kohl-rabi   92 

' '      Lemon   Sauce    91 

' '      Mayonnaise    93 

' '      Mushrooms   93 

' '      Mushroom  Gravy 90 

"      Paprika    91 

"      Rice 92 

"      Root    Celery    93 

' '      Sour  Cream  Gravy ...   90 

''      Tomatoes    93 

''      Wine  Gravy    90 

Croquettes    94 

Pie   95 

Rissoles    94 

Chocolate    303 

"  Butter    290 

"  Custard    280 

Christmas  Twist    248 

Clam  Chowder  No.  1    133 

No.  2   ..133 

Clam  Stew   132 

Clams    131 

Baked    132 

Fried    132 

with  Cream   132 

Claret   Cup    304 

Codfish,   Creamed    127 

Scalloped    127 

Balls  No.  1    128 


Page 

Codfish,  Balls  No.  2 128 

Cocoa    303 

Coffee    302 

French    302 

Turkish    302 

Coffee  Cake   ; 247 

Cold  Slaw  No.  1   171 

"        "      No.  2   171 

Avith  Cream  Sauce   171 

'^      Sour   Cream   Sauce..   171 

Cookies,   Molasses    265 

Peanut  No.  1 266 

No.  2   266 

Sugar   266 

Yolk     266 

Corn,  on  Cob    163 

Fried    163 

Stewed    163 

Custard    163 

Cornucopias    272 

Crabs,  Boiled    133 

Fried  133 

Stewed    134 

Hard    Shell    134 

Cream  Puffs   267 

Crescents,  Almond  274 

Sugar   273 

Crusts    252 

''       Celestial  No.  1..... ...251 

"         No.  2 251 

''       Cherry    224 

Cucumbers,  Fried    168 

Custard,  Chocolate   280 

Lemon 280 

Dandelion  Wine   305 

Darioles,  Almond    272 

Doughnuts,  Plain   249 

Filled    250 

Duck,  Roasted    99 

with   Mushrooms    99 

AVild,   Roasted    109 

''       Stewed    109 

Dumplings  No.  1   180 

No.  2   181 


Page 

Dumplings,  No.  3  181 

No.  4 181 

Calf's  Liver   74 

Cottage   Cheese   No.   1 183 

''  ''        No.  2 183 

Cream   187 

Crumb    182 

Farina  No.   1    184 

"       No.   2    184 

"       in   Custard    184 

''       with  Smoked  Meat  184 

Fruit,  Baked    187 

''       Boiled   187 

Potato   No.   1    187 

"       No.   2    188 

''       (Raw)    No.  1    188 

''  ''       No.   2    188 

Prune   (Fresh)   No.  1   185 

''        No.  2   185 

''  "        No.  3   186 

''        No.  4   186 

Prune    (Dried)    186 

Raised  No.  1  181 

''       No.  2   182 

with   Bacon   No.   1    182 

"  ''       No.  2    182 

''      Smoked  Meat   183 

Eel,  Blued    128 

Broiled    129 

Fried  129 

Marinated   129 

Roasted    ,...129 

with  Mayonnaise   Sauce....  129 

Eggplant,  Baked    157 

Fried   No.  1    1157 

"       No.  2    157 

Eggs,  Baked    138 

'*       in  Sour  Cream..  139 
''       with  Maahed  Po- 
tatoes     138 

"       with   Toast 141 

Boiled    136 

Deviled   140 

Fried    136 

Pickled    141 


Page 

Eggs,  Poached    138 

"         and  Fried   138 

Scrambled    137 

"  with  Anchovies.  .137 

"  ''      Cheese   ....137 

''      Ham 137 

"  ''      Mushrooms  137 

Sour   140 

Stuffed  and  Baked   139 

''        and  Fried   139 

"        with  White   Sauce.  140 

with  Potatoes   141 

'^      Sour   Cream    140 

Elder  Blossom   Wine    306 

Endive   156 

Fillings  for  Tarts  etc. 

Almond    283 

Apple  Sauce    283 

Cottage    Cheese    282 

Crumb  282 

Hazel  Nut    283 

Poppy  Seed  No.  1   282 

"         "      No.  2   282 

Raisin   283 

Roux,   (Gingerbread)    284 

Roux  (Sugar)    283 

Walnut    283 

Fish  Ill 

Boiled    112 

''      with  Black  Sauce...  112 

"        ''      Gravy     112 

Cutlets,  Fried   112 

Fried  Cakes   .' 250 

Fritters,  Plain    222 

Apple   222 

Orange,  etc 223 

Friture,   Plain    223 

Apple    223 

Crumb 223 

Farina    224 

Rice  224 

Frog  Legs,  a  la  Poulette 135 

Fried   136 

Avith  Eggs    135 


Pase 

Fro.stinjv,  White,   (not  boiled)    284 

(boiled)     ....284 

Chocolate,    (not   boiled) 284 

''  (boiled)     285 

Cinnamon 285 

Colored   285 

Fruit     Sauces      (See     Sauces 

(Fruit). 
Gingersnaps    265 

Goose,  Roasted   97 

Stewed    97 

with  Apple   Stuffing    97 

Giblets,  with  Cauliflower. . .   99 

''  ''      Noodles    98 

"  "      Quenelles     ...   98 

''  ''      Rice    98 

Wild    110 

Goulash    43 

Hungarian    43 

Grog    305 

Ham,  Boiled    53 

Broiled    54 

Cold    53 

Croquettes    56 

Deviled   57 

and  Eggs   54 

Roasted  in  Dough    54 

with  Scrambled  Eggs   54 

Hamburger  Steak 43 

Harvest  Drink    304 

Head  Cheese   62 

Herring,  Broiled    125 

Fried 125 

Marinated    126 

Hoe  Cakes   .....239 

Hot  Cross  Bread   249 

Imperial  Bread  273 

Jams    287 

Apple    288 

Currant 288 

Grape   .....287 

Peach  No.  1    289 

''       No.  2   289 

Peach   281 


Page 

Jams,  Pear    281 

Plum    288 

Prune    281 

Quince    289 

Raspberry    288 

Tomato   289 

Tomato  and  Apple    289 

Jelly  Roll   263 

Jellies,  General  Directions. . .  .285 

Apple   286 

Cherry    286 

Currant    287 

Elderberry   287 

Grape   286 

Plum    286 

Kale    168 

Hashed    168 

Kohl-rabi,  Stewed    153 

Stuffed  153 

Lady  Fingers,  Almond   269 

Chocolate  Almond   269 

Imperial   269 

Raised 269 

Vienna    269 

Lamb,  Brisket,  Stuffed   85 

Cutlets  No.  1    84 

No.  2   85 

Fricasseed    86 

Fried   84 

Kidneys    87 

Leg,  with  Mint   Sauce 85 

Pluck 87 

Saddle,  Roasted   84 

Steak    85 

with   Anchovies    85 

"      Butter  Gravy    86 

'  ^      Paprika  Gravy   87 

Lemon    Custard    280 

Lemonade,  Plain   304 

with  Fruit   ....304 

Lentils   161 

with  Sour  Gravy   161 

Lobster   134 

Canned    134 

Lozenges,  Cinnamon    274 


Page 

Lozenges,  Lemon   275 

Macaroni    197 

Macaroons    276 

Chocolate    276 

Mackerel,  Baked   126 

Boiled    127 

Marchpane  273 

Marzipan    273 

Mayonnaise  Dressing    176 

Muffins 239 

Cream    239 

Mushrooms,  with   Eggs    161 

Fried 162 

(Morels)    162 

Stewed  No.  1    161 

''        No.  2 161 

Stuffed   162 

Mustard  Butter    290 

Mutton,  Brisket  with  Rice....   80 

Chops   77 

''      Breaded    77 

Cutlets    77 

Hash,   with   Poached   Eggs.   82 
Leg,    Pickled,    with    Cream 

Gravy    78 

"     Roasted   .- 77 

"     Stuffed    .■ 77 

Pot  Pie    79 

Saddle   Roasted    78 

Shoulder,  Stewed   80 

with  Carrots   79 

"      Green  Peas   79 

''      Kohl-rabi    80 

' '      Marjoram  Gravy    ....   81 

''      Rice ' 81 

^'      Vegetable   Gravy §1 

Kidneys  No.  1   82 

''         No.  2   82 

"         No.  3   83 

Tongues,  Stewed    83 

' '  with  Lemon  Sauce  83 

Noodles 195 

Baked  with  Onions   195 

Buttered   195 

in  Milk  195 


Page 
Noodles,  with  Cottage  Cheese.  195 

"      Ham    196 

Nougats    267 

Omelette,  Plain  No.  1    141 

"       No.  2   142 

"       No.  3   142 

''       No.  4   142 

Baked    143 

Sponge  144 

Sweet   144 

with  Apple  Sauce   143 

"      Bacon    143 

''      Buttermilk    145 

'^      Cheese    144 

"      Ham    143 

"      Meat   Stuffing    143 

"      Milk  Cheese    145 

''      Potatoes    145 

' '      Vegetables  144 

Onion,  Fried   165 

Stewed    165 

Oyster  Stew  131 

Oysters,  Baked   130 

Broiled    131 

Creamed    131 

Fricasseed    130 

Fried 130 

Raw  130 

Pancakes,  Baking  Powder 189 

Buckwheat   190 

Buttermilk   190 

Cornmeal    190 

Cornmeal,  Raised 191 

Crumb    191 

Potato  190 

Raised    189 

Self -Rising  (Griddle  Cakes)  189 

Soda   (Wheat)    189 

Parsley  Butter   290 

Parsnips,  Fried   165 

Mashed   165 

Stewed    165 

Peas,   Green    160 

Dried    160 

''      with   Barley    160 


Page 

Perch,  Boiled    120 

Blued    121 

Broiled    120 

Fried   120 

Pickles,  Cauliflower  299 

Cauliflower  in  Mustard 299 

Chow-chow 300 

Cucumbers,  Sweet    298 

Dill    300 

Grapes   295 

Mangoes,   Stuffed    301 

Mushrooms    300 

Onions    299 

Peaches 295 

Pickles   297 

"       Dill    297 

"       Dill  Summer 298 

"       Sweet    298 

Tomatoes  (Green)    296 

"  No.  1   296 

"  No.  2   296 

.      ''  No.  3   297 

Watermelon  297 

Pie  Crust   203 

Pie,   Apple  No.  1    204 

''        No.  2   204 

Apple  Custard    204 

Cherry    205 

Cottage  Cheese  207 

Cream  No.  1   208 

"       No.  2   208 

Cream  (Sour)    208 

Custard    ..206 

Grape    205 

Lemon  No.  1   206 

''       No.  2   206 

No.  3   207 

Mince    208 

Peach  No.  1    204 

"       No.  2   204 

Pineapple 205 

Pieplant 205 

Preserve   207 

Prune    207 

Pumpkin 207 


Page 
Pie,  Raisin    ..205 

Rhubarb    205 

Tyrolese    209 

Pig,  Roasted   55 

Pigeons,  Stewed   102 

Stuffed 101 

Wild    110 

Pike,  Baked    116 

Blued    117 

Boiled    116 

Fried  118 

Holland    Style    116 

with  Dumplings    117 

''      Oysters   117 

'^      Sour  Cream  Gravy...  118 

Pork,  Chops   50 

Croquettes    56 

Cutlets  No.  1   50 

''        No.  2   50 

Feet,  Pickled 59 

Head,    Boiled,    with    Horse- 
radish      59 

Leg,  Pickled    53 

Loaf 57 

Loin   Roasted    51 

Polish  Style   52 

Preserving   ., 58 

Rolls  with  Rice   52 

Scrapple   52 

Smoked 54 

' '        with  Rice   55 

Spare-ribs  with   Sourkraut.  52 

Stuffed  Cabbage  No.  1....  59 

No.  2....  60 

Tenderloin,   Fried    56 

"  Roasted    56 

Tongue,  Roasted   58 

with   Beans    51 

"      Kohl-rabi   51 

Porridge,  Barley  Grits   192 

Cornmeal    192 

"           with   Cracklings.  193 
''  Fried    192 


Pa;?e 

Porridge,  Farina  No.  1    191 

"        No.  2   191 

Millet    194 

"       with    Smoked   Meat.  194  . 

Oatmeal    192 

Pearl  Barley   193 

"           ''        with      Mush- 
rooms    194 

-  Rice   (Baked)   No.  1 193 

''  ''         No.  2 193 

"      (Boiled)    193 

Potato  Mush  No.  1 150 

''      No.  2 151 

Noodles    151 

Pancakes    151 

Puff   148 

Potatoes,  Baked   147 

Boiled   146 

"       in  Jackets  146 

^'       New  Potatoes    147 

Creamed    149 

French  Fried 147 

Fried  148 

German  Fried 147 

Mashed 148 

"         and  Baked 148 

Sour 149 

Stewed 149 

Stuffed   150 

with  Bacon    147 

* '      Marjoram  Gravy 150 

"      Milk    ' 150 

Saratoga  Chips 148 

Poultry,  Preparing  Same 88 

Prairie  Chickens 109 

Preserving,  General  Directions  292 

Apples 294 

Cherries 294 

Crab  Apples 294 

Peaches 293 

Pears 294 

Plums    294 

Strawberries   293 

Tomatoes  (Pearshaped)  .  .  .294 
Watermelon  Rind 295 


Page 

Pretzels,  x\nise   271 

Puddings  (Baked)  : 

Apple 21S 

Brown  Betty   220 

Cherry 220 

Farina 210 

Lemon  218 

Millet    220 

Orange 210 

Potato   219 

Prune    218 

Tapioca 219 

Puddings  (Boiled)  : 221 

Cottage  Cheese   222 

Economical 221 

Plum 221 

Puddings   (Puffed):    212 

Bread,  with  Wine   215 

Cherry 217 

Chocolate 216 

Cornstarch    215 

Cream   217 

Farina 213 

French  .  .• 215 

French  Roll   213 

Poppy  Seed 216 

Prune    217 

Rice  No.  1   213 

"      No.  2  214 

"      No.  3 214 

"      No.  4 214 

Strawberry 216 

Pudding    Sauces     (See    Sauces 
for  Puddings). 

Puff,  Bread  211 

Calf's  Liver 211 

Egg 212 

Farina  No.  1  209 

"        No.  2  210 

Vanilla 212 

Veal 211 

Wheat  Flour   210 

"          ''        with  Calves' 
Brains 210 


Page 

Puff  Paste  No.  1 201 

No.  2 203 

Pumpkin 166 

Quail,  Broiled  on  Toast   108 

Roasted 108 

Stewed 108 

with   Spiced  Gravy   109 

Quenelles,  Crumb,  in  Cream.  .  .197 

Farina,  Fried 196 

Rabbit,  Fricassee 103 

Fried 104 

Jugged 103 

Roasted 102 

with  Cream  Sauce   104 

'^      Sour  Cream  Gravy...  103 
Raised  Tarts  and  Cakes,  Gene- 
ral Directions    240 

Rolls,  Butter 238 

Cabbage 238 

Cottage  Cheese  196 

Cream  271 

Sugar 271 

Vienna 238 

Rosettes,  Fried,  No.  1 251 

"       No.  2 252 

Rusks 235 

Rutabaga   152 

Salad,  Asparagus 173 

Beet ' 173 

Bohemian 175 

Cauliflower 172 

Celery   173 

"       with  Apples   172 

''       Root   172 

Chicken  No.  1 174 

''        No.  2 174 

Cold  Slaw  No.  1 171 

''       ''      No.  2 171 

'*       "      with  Cream 

Sauce 171 

'*       "      with  Sour  Cream 

Sauce 1 71 

Crab 174 

Cucumber 169 

Dried  Bean 175 


Page 

Salad,  Endive   172 

Fish  174 

Lettuce 169 

' '       with  Boiled  Eggs  . .  169 
''         ''      Sour  Cream..  169 

''         ''      Bacon    169 

Lobster 174 

Potato  No.  1 170 

"       No.  2 IfO 

*'        with  Herring 170 

"        with  Sour  Cream  ..  170 

Raw  Meat    176 

Salad  Dressing   (Boiled) . .  .176 

Tomato  No.  1 ...173 

No.  2 174 

Water  Cress ^  . .  173 

Salad  Dressings  (See  Sauces  for 

Meats  or  Salads). 
Salmi  of  Fowl 102 

Salmon,  Baked,  with  Gravy  .  .  118 
'^        with  Mayon- 
naise Sauce  119 

Boiled  No.  1   119 

"       No.  2   119 

Canned    120 

Croquettes    120 

Fried    119 

Jellied    114 

Salsify,  Breaded 164 

Fried   164 

Stewed    164 

Sandwiches 227 

Saratoga  Chips 148 

Sauces  for  Beef: 

Anchovy 29 

Bread 32 

Brown 32 

Caper 30 

Catsup  No.  1 34 

"        No.  2 34 

Celery 31 

Chive 33 

Dill  No.  1  29 

"     No.  2 29 

Drawn  Butter  32 


Page 
Sauces  for  Beef: 

Garlic    31 

Horseradish,  Cold 30 

"  Plain 31 

''  White 31 

Lemon 32 

Mushroom,  Dried 30 

"  Fresh   30 

Mustard 31 

French 34 

Onion    30 

Yellow 33 

Oyster  32 

Parsley   33 

Pickle 29 

Potato  33 

Tomato   28 

Wine   33 

Sauces  (Cold)  for  Meats  or 
Salads: 

Anchovy    177 

Aromatic 177 

Black  Pepper    178 

Ego-    179 

Fish  No.  1 177 

"     No.  2 178 

Game    ; 177 

Hollandaise 179 

Mayonnaise 176 

Meat    178 

Piquante 179 

Red  Pepper 178 

Remoulade 177 

Salad  Dressing   (Boiled) ..  .176 

Wine 180 

Sauces  (Fruit) : 

Apple 291 

Blackberry   292 

Cherry    292 

Cranberry 290 

Peach  ..' 291 

Pear ! 291 

Prune 291 

Rhubarb   291 


Page 
Sauces  (Sweet)  for  Puddings  etc.: 

Apricot   279 

Cream  Almond   279 

Cream  Chocolate   278 

Cream  Vanilla 279 

Custard 277 

Hard  No.  1   277 

"     No.  2   278 

Lemon  279 

Orange 279 

Peach 279 

Wine  No.  1 278 

"      No.  2 278 

''      Chaudeau    280 

Sausage,  Blood 61 

Bologna 62 

Liver 60 

Pressed  Blood   63 

Wine -62 

Sausage  Meat 57 

Fried  57 

with  Sourkraut 58 

Scrapple  52 

Shad 125 

Shrimps 134 

Small  Birds 110 

Smelts,  Broiled 126 

Fried   126 

Soup,   General    Directions 8 

Barley   10 

'^       with  Mushrooms  ...  25 

Beef 8 

Bean 22 

Beer  No.  1 24 

''     No.  2 24 

"  with  Rye  Bread  24 

Bouillon   9 

Brown  27 

Cabbage  No.  1 23 

No.  2  23 

Cauliflower   11 

Crouton 14 

Dough  Drops  14 

Farina 27 

Garlic 23 


Pa^e 

:5oap,  Goose  Giblet   13 

Grated  Doug-h   14 

Milk,  with  Noodles 26 

''       with  Rice   26 

''       Sweet 26 

Mock  Pea 12 

''      Turtle 22 

Mushroom 28 

Noodle 12 

''       with  Chicken 13 

Oyster 27 

' '       Bisque 27 

Pea 12 

Potato   11 

''        25 

''       with  Mushrooms  ...  25 

Puree  of  Barley  15 

''     of  Lentils 22 

''     of  Meat 15 

''     of   Peas    22 

''     of  Potatoes   15 

Rice  10 

''     Cream  of   11 

^'     with    Spring  Chicken.  10 

Rye  Bread   14 

Sago    9 

"     with   Yolks    9 

Tomato   26 

Tripe  13 

Turtle    21 

Vegetable    23 

Vegetable    Stock    20 

Wheat  Bread    25 

Wine    24 

with  Beef  Colombines 19 

''      Calf's    Brain     Colom- 
bines     19 

''      Bread   Colombines 20 

' '      Farina      Colombines 

No.  1    IS 

' '      Farina       Colombines 

No.  2 18 

'^      Flour    Colombines....  19 
"      Calf's    Brain    Quenel- 
les      16 


Page 

Soup,  with  Calf's  Liver  Quenel- 
les    16 

Egg  Quenelles 17 

Farina  Quenelles 16 

Fish   Quenelles 21 

Marrow  Quenelles....   17 

Potato   Quenelles 17 

Veal  Quenelles 17 

Sourkraut  No.  1    167 

No.   2    168 

Making  Same   300 

Spiced  Wine   305 

Spinach,  with  Cream 156 

with   Eggs    156 

''      Meat   Gravy    155 

''      Noodles    155 

''      Sour   Cream    156 

Squabs,   Stuffed    100 

with  Asparagus    100 

"      Brown  Sauce   100 

''      Green  Peas   101 

Squash    166 

Stars,   Cinnamon    270 

Vanilla    270 

Strawberry   Shortcake    264 

Strudel,  Apple  No.  1   197 

''        No.  2   198 

Cherry    200 

Chocolate    199 

Cottage  Cheese 199 

Cream   199 

French  Pancake,  with  Cher- 
ries    201 

French  Pancake,  with  Cho- 
colate     201 

French   Pancake,  with   Cot- 
tage Cheese   200 

Raised  Dough   200 

Sturgeon,   Baked    124 

Fried    124 

in  Wine 124 

Sweetbreads,  Fricasseed 72 

Fried    72 

with   Brown  Gravy    72 


Sweetbreads,  with  Mushrooms.   73 

Sweet  Potatoes,   Baked    151 

Fried    152 

Tarts      (Raised)      and     Cakes, 

General    Directions    240 

Tarts,  Bohemian  No  1   240 

No.  2 241 

No.  3 241 

Butter   243 

Carlsbad    243 

Puffdough    242 

Yolk    244 

Laro-e  Fruit  Tarts   244 

Lar^e  German  Tarts 244 

Laro-e  Hanover  Tarts   245 

Tea 303 

with   Eoo-s    303 

Toast,  Dipped   226 

French    227 

French,    with    Wine    227 

Milk  No.  1  225 

''     No.  2 225 

"  •    No.  3  226 

Plain   225 

Pressburg-    226 

Tomatoes,  Fried    158 

on    Toast    158 

Stewed    157 

Stuffed  No.  1   158 

No.  2    .158 

Tripe,   with    Sour   Gravy 48 

Trout   (Brook)   Blued   .* 123 

Fried  123 

Marinated    124 

in  Wine    123 

with   Sauce    123 

Trout    (Lake)    123 

Turnips,  Mashed    152 

Sour   152 

Stewed    152 

Turkey,   Roasted    96 

with    Almond    Stuffing.  ..  .   97 
''      Chestnut   Stuffing....   96 

"      Oyster  Stuffing 96 

"      Sage   Stuffing- 96 


FsLge 
Turtle    135 

Twist,    Christmas     248 

Twists 239 

Udder,  Fried   48 

Veal,  Brisket,  Stuffed    65 

Croquettes    71 

Cutlets,  Breaded   63 

''        with  Mushrooms...   64 

"        Prague  Style 64 

''        Stewed 64 

Fillet,  Pickled  and  Roasted  66 

''       Roasted     65 

Fricandeau    70 

Hash    71 

''      of  Calf's  Head 70 

Leg,   with   Anchovies    67 

"      Roasted   66 

' '      Stewed    66 

"      with  Lemon  Gravy...   68 
''      Wine   Gravy....   67 

Loaf   71 

Rolls,  Stuffed  70 

Vienna   Schnitzel    63 

w4th  Caraway  Seed 69 

' '      Cauliflower    69 

' '      Cream  Gravy    68 

' '      Paprika    68 

"      Tomatoes    .* 69 

"      Wine   Gravy    69 

Haslet,  Baked 75 

Kidneys,   with   Sour  Gravy   74 

''  '      Stewed    .*.   74 

Liver  Dumplings    74 

Pluck,   Baked    75 

Stewed 75 

Tongue   Cutlets,  Fried 76 

Vegetables,  General  Directions  146 

Venison    104 

with   Gravy    106 

Cutlets    107 

Leg  of 106 

Liver,  Stewed   107 

Saddle    of.    With    Pepper 
Sauce   105 


Pa<>'e 
^'eiiison,  Saddle  of,  with  Horse- 

^ '       or  Leg',  RoastedlOo 

Shoulder,  Stewed   106 

Sliced    107 

^hite  Fish,  Baked   122 

Boiled    122 

in  Wine   122 

IVild  Duck,  Roasted   109 

Stewed    109 

^Yild  Goose   110 

^Vild  Pioeon    110 


Paííe 

Wine  Cliaudeau 280 

Wine,   Dandelion    305 

Elder  Blossom    30G 

Spiced  305 

Wonders  251 

Yeast 

Buttermilk 229 

Dry  Hop  No.  1 227 

''      ''      No.  2  228 

''      ''      No.  3  228 

Homemade   229 

Starter    229 


TELEPHONE  DOUGLAS  lOOS 

National  Printing  Co. 

Printers  oi  Anything  In  Any  Tongue 


lllllll 

^ 

B 

Established  1S71 


WE  PRI\T  AND  PUBLISH  NEWSPAPERS,  BOOKLETS, 
CATALOGUES,  BOOKS,  BUSINESS  LETTER  HEADS 
WEDDING  INVITATIONS  AND  ANNOUNCEMENTS, 
CARDS,  P0ST1ÍRS,  ETC.     j::       'K       JC       'K        ?C       'ÍC 

COLOR  WORK  OUR  SPECIALTY 


S^^ 


ADVERTISERS  WISHING 
To  REACH  PROSPEROUS 
MARKET  of  OVER  31,000 
BOHEMIAN    FARMERS 


TRY 
THE 


HOSPODAŘ 


jdL^iUte 


m 


?e 


Publishers  of  the  Bohemian  Family  Weekly 

OíSVĚXA  AivierickA 

Largest  paid-in-advance  circulation  of  any  Bohemian 

Family  Weekly  in  the  U.  S, 
Write  us  for  full  information  and  advertising  rates. 


9> 


SEND  FO  <  COMPLETE   CATALOGUE  OF   OUR  BOOKS 


NATIONAL  PRINTING  COMPANY 

NATIONAL  BUILDING 

S.  W.  Corner  12th  and  Harney  Sts. 
OMAHA,  NEBR. 


■1^ 


i        ■■  ^f-l 


sale   by 


National  Printing  Co.,  Omalia,  Nebr. 


^  Bohemia  under  Hapsburg  Misrule  l 

by  Thomas  Čapek  with  Added  Chapters  by  Profs.  Bo- 
humil Simek,  H.  A.  Miller,  W.  S.  Monroe,  Leo.  Wiener, 
Emily  G.  Balch.  The  Long  story  of  Austria's  oppression 
of  Bohemia,  the  latter's  place  in  the  creative  arts,  her 
share  in  the  Slavic  regeneration,  her  ideals  and  the  reason 
why  she  should  attain  national  fredom — are  here  pre- 
sented in  keen  chapters  that  make  a  most  convincing' 
appeal.  —  The  ideals  and  aspirations  of  the  Bohemian 
and  Slovak  peoples  as  affected  by  the  European  war. 
Cloth    Bindiiig^,   $1.00    ppd. 

Boiiemla  and  the  čechs. 

The  History,  People,  Institutions  and  the  Geograi)hy  of 
the  Kingdom,  together  with  Accounts  of  Moravia  and 
Silesia 

by  Will  S.  IVfonroe, 

author    of    "Turkey    and     the    Turks".       "In      Viking       Land: 

Norway",     "Sicily",    etc.    With    numerous       illustration       and 

maps. 

Beautifully     houud     In     cloth,    price    $3.15    postpaid. 

The  Story  of  Bohemia 

From     the    Earliest    Times    to    the     Fall    of     National     Inde- 
pendence  in   1620;   With   a  Short  Summary  of  Latter  Events. 
By   C.    Edmund   Maurice. 
With    illui^tratiou.s    and    map,    clothbound,    price    $1.50 

postpaid. 

History  of  Bohemia. 

liy      F'raucis      Count      Luetzo'»v. 

An  authentic  and  extensive  history  of  the  Bohemian 
Nation,  in  the  neat  Everyman's  Library  edition.  Cloth- 
bound,     postpaid     45    cts. 

Guide  to  the  Kingdom  of  Bohemia. 

Historical  sketches  of  the  po  siton  of  the  Bohemian  Nation 
in  Austria  by  Francis  Count  Luetzow.  The  Coutry  of  the 
Book  and  the  Cup,  —  sketches  of  Prague,  description  of 
the  trade  of  Bohemia,  its  home-industry,  costumes,  etc., 
statistics  of  the  home-industries,  an  essay  on  the  Bohe- 
mian Language  and  Literature,  on  the  Bohemian  Music, 
etc.  With  numerous  illvistrat  ions,  fac-similes,  maps,  etc. — 
In     cloth     binding,     postpaid     $1.00. 


^ 


The  Life  and  Times  of 
Mistr  John  Hus 


the  great  Bohemian  Reformer  and  Martyr,  burned  at  the 
stake  in  1415  at  Constance.  By  the  Count  Luetzow. — 398 
pages    size    6x9,    clothbovind.    price    $4.25    postpaid. 


The  Hussite  Wars 

by  the  Count  Luetzow. 


The  sequel  to  "Life  and  Times  of  M.  John  Hus"  is  mainly 
founded  on  documents  written  in  the  Bohemian  language, 
most  of  whicli  are  quite  unknown  to  Englisli  readers. 
The  Hussite  movement  has  g^enerally  been  viewed  as  an 
almost  exclusively  religious  one.  Ct.  Luetzow  proves  that 
though  the  religious  motive  was  undoubtedly  the  most 
prominent  one,  two  other  currents  of  thoug'ht  also  con- 
tributed largely  to  the  outbreak  of  the  Hussite  wars.  Ct. 
Luetzow's  accounts  of  the  battles  of  the  Hussite  wars, 
founded  on  the  narrative  of  the  contemporary  chroniclers, 
throw  much  light  on  the  Hussite  system  of  warfare  which 
belongs  to  a  period  of  transition.  The  Count  draws  our 
attention  to  the  protagonist  of  the  Hussite  wars,  John 
Zizka  of  Trocnov,  the  most  picturesque  and  the  most  in- 
teresting figure  of  that  period. — .384  pages  6x9,  illustrated, 
elothboiind,   $4.25   postpaid. 


Heroes  of  Bohemia: 
Hus,  Jerome  and  Zisca- 


by  the  Rev.  J.  W.  Mears,  D.  D.,  author  of  "Martyrs  of 
France",  Beggars  of  Holland",  etc. — With  a  map  of  the 
Bohemian    Crown    Lands,    olothbotiud,    $1.10    postpaid. 

For    sale    by 

NATIONAL  PRINTING  COMPANY, 

OMAHA,  NEBR. 


Juvenile  Books  about  the 

Life  of  Slavonic  Nations: 

BARBORA,  OUR  LITTLE  BOHE31IAN  COUSIX,  by  Clara  Vo- 
strovsky    Winlow.       Illustrated,    clothbound,    60    cts 

OUR  LITTLE  POLISH  COUSIJV,  by  Florence  E.  Mendel,  Illu- 
strated,   cloth,    60    cts. 

OUR  LITTLE  RUSSIAN  COUSIN,  by  Mary  Hazelton  Wade. 
Illustrated,    cloth,    60    cts. 

OUR  LITTLE  BULGARIAN  COUSIN,  by  Clara  Vostrovsky  Win- 
low.      Illustrated,     cloth,     60    cts. 

OUR  LITTLE  SERVIAN  COUSIN,  by  Clara  Vostrovsky  Winlow. 
Illustrated,    cloth,    60    cts. 


Bohemian  Made  Easy. 

A'  Manual     of   the    Bohemian   Lang-uag-e     for     English       speaking- 
people.     By    Charles    Jonáš.     Clothbound,    postpaid    $1.60, 

Dictionaries. 

BOHEMIAN-ENGLISH,    by   prof.    Dr.    V.     E.    Mourek,     cloth,     $2.50. 
1120   pages. 

ENGLISH-BOHEMIAN,   by    prof.    Dr.     V.     E.    Mourek,     1010     pages, 
cloth,    $2.50. 

BOHEMIAN-ENGLISH,   and   ENGLISH-BOHEMIAN,    abridged,      by 

Mourek,      889     pages,     cloth,    $2.50. 

BOHEMIAN-ENGLISH,    with    pronunciation,  by  Chas.  .Jonáš,  cloth, 

$1.85. 

ENGLISH-BOHEMIAN,    with    pronunciation,   by  Chas.  Jonáš,  cloth, 
$1.85. 

BOHEMIAN-ENGLISH,    pocket    edition,    by    F.    B.    Zdrůbek,    cloth, 
$1.00. 

ENGLISH-BOHEMIAN,    pocket    edition,     by    P.    B.    Zdrůbek,    cloth, 

$1.00. 
BOHE3IIAN-ENGLISH    and    ENGLISH-BOHEMIAN,      both     in     one 

volume,    by    F.    B.    Zdrůbek,    cloth,    $1.75. 

The  Labyrinth  of  the  World 

and  the  Paradise  of  the  Heart 

by  John  Amos  Komenský  (Comenius) 

A  classical  piece  of  Bohemian  literature  by  the  renowned 
educator  is  presented  here  in  the  English,  translated  by 
Count  Luetzow. — Beautifully  bound  in  cloth,  price  post- 
paid,   $1.«0. 

For  sale  by     National  Printing  Co.,  Omaha,  Nehr. 

H    50    88  I 


if 


.^' 


.♦" ^-ř-^  -•'■   *%'    ...    <-. 


°o 


\  ^^  .<f  '^sňiÁ-^   "^^  0.^   -v 


a\         „  -,  ^      v.       '  •  •  *        ^^ 


O. 


,í^-'.v.'^o^         *.i.*^-\/       %'-^%o'>       \'% 

!•  "^-Z  •^''  "^W  •*»'•  \/  ♦'^^'^'^•"  ^^ 

■^  o.     'o .  *  •     A  <*^    ♦"Trs  *    ,0^ 


5-  <($. 


VI 


<  o 


HECKMAN 

BINDERY  INC. 

^    OCT  88 

^^W       N.  MANCHESTER, 
^*=í*^  INDIANA  46962 


