K35C^Q 


CHICAGO 

EVENING 

AMERICAN 

COOK  BOOK 


KSBaa^^g^ggpg^ 


Digitized  by  tlie  Internet  Arcliive 

in  2007  witli  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


littp://www.arcliive.org/details/bookofpracticalrOOcliiciala 


PRACTICAL  RECIPES 

FOR  THE 

HOUSEWIFE 


A  BOOK 

OF 

PRACTICAL 
RECIPES 

FOR  THE 

HOUSEWIFE 


PUBLISHED  BY 

CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 

CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS 


;«— 


Manufactured  in  U.  S.A.  by  the 

John  F.  Cuneo  Company 

Chicago 


'  , -.  imiVEil8IT¥  OF  CALIFORNIA 

^^^  .   SANTABABaA&A 


The  pages  which  follow  were  compiled 
with  a  view  to  supplying  dependahle 
recipes. 

Grateful  acknowledgtnent  is  hereby 
made  to  more  than  13,000  housewives, 
ready  and  willing  to  contribute  their 
favorite  recipes  and  thereby  help  to 
make  this  Cook  Book  possible. 

Chicago  Evening  American 


Table  of  Contents 

Page 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures. 1-2 

Household  Hints . 2-4 

Beverages 

Hot  Drinks ^ 5-7 

Cold  Drinks. - &-10 

Bread,  Biscuits  and  Rolls 11-35 

Candies   36-39 

Cheese  Dishes „.. ^ 40-43 

Desserts 

Pastry,  Cake  and  Cookies 44-73 

Frostings  73-75 

Pies    75-80 

Puddings  81-96 

Sauces  and  Puddings 96-98 

Ice  Cream „ „ 98-103 

Eggs  and  Egg  Dishes 104-109 

Fish  and  Sea  Food. , 110-123 

Jelhes  124-1 35 

Meat    136-158 

Menus  159-175 

Poultry    176-186 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings _ 187-203 

Soups  - 204-2 17 

Vegetables,   Green 218-233 

Starchy  Vegetables  and  Potatoes 233-244 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND 
MEASURES 


Weight 

16  ounces 
2  cups  meat 
4  cups  flour 


^  cups  nour 

2  cups   granulated  sugar 

2  cups  butter 


1  pound 
1  pound 
1  pound 
1  pound 
t  pound 


cups  butter 

Wet  Measure 

2  cups 

2  pints 
4  quarts 

Dry  Measure 

8  quarts 

4  pecks 

1  peck  potatoes 

3  teaspoons 

4  tablespoons 

All  measurements  in  this  book  are  level. 

Level  contents  of  cups  and  spoons  with  a  knife. 


1  pint 
1  quart 
1  gallon 


1  peck 
1  bushel 
15  pounds 
1  tablespoon 
14  cup 


Table  of  Food  Content 
Organic  Matter 

Protein:  builds  up  the  tissues  and  cells  burned  up  throughout 
the  day's  activities. 

Eggs,  meat,  fish,  milk,  cheese,  beans,  peas,  nuts,  grains, 
and  gelatines. 

Fats:   lubricate  the  body  and  furnish  energy. 

Butter,  cream,  olive  oil,  nuts,  meat  and  vegetable  oils. 

1 


2  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Carbohydrates:    starches  and  sugars. 
Furnish  heat  and  energy. 

Cereals,  Hma  beans,  lentils,  peas,  com,  potatoes. 
Fruits,  syrups,  sugars. 

Vhamines:    for  growth  and  health. 

Fresh    fruit   juices,    eggs,    butter,    milk,    coarse    grains, 
greens  and  fresh  vegetables.     Especially  dtrus  fruits. 


Inorganic  Matter 

Mineral  Salts:   to  build  bone  in  children,  to  aid  digestion  and 
to  make  food  palatable. 
Salt,  good  water. 

Spinach,   carrots,  onions,  greens,  raw  lettuce  and  raw 
vegetables. 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 

Wash  the  sink  and  drain  pipes  with  boiling  water  every  day 
and  once  a  week,  wash  and  drain  with  strong  solution  of 
washing  soda  (sal  soda). 

The  drain  of  the  icebox  may  be  kept  free  in  the  same  way. 

To  Remove  Stains 

Blood  Stains:  Wash  in  cold  water,  then  in  warm  water  and 
naphtha  soap. 

Bluing:  Wash  in  boiling  water  using  a  little  vinegar.  If  the 
stain  persists,  try  oxahc  acid  or  10%  solution  acetic 
acid. 

Coffee:  Stretch  material  with  spot  over  a  bowl  and  pour 
boiling  water  through  it  from  a  height  of  two  feet. 

Cocoa  or  Chocolate:  Try  cold  water  and  soap.  If  not 
effective,  soak  in  cold  water  and  borax  and  pour  on 
boiling  water  as  for  coffee  stain. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  3 

Grass:  Weak  solution  of  ammonia  and  water — Y^  ammonia 
to  y^  water.  Use  cleaning  fluid  on  non'washable  ma' 
terials. 

Grease:  Saturate  French  Chalk  with  benzin  and  paste  over 
spot.  Lay  a  blotter  over  the  spot  and  rest  a  warm  iron 
on  the  blotter  for  half  an  hour.  Remove  the  iron,  dust 
off  the  chalk  and  the  spot  should  be  removed.  The 
grease  goes  into  the  chalk  from  the  heat. 
If  other  chemicals  or  acids  are  in  the  grease,  try  clean' 
ing  fluid. 

Ink:  Use  salt  and  lemon  and  sunshine  for  white  goods.  Use 
alternately  drops  of  ammonia  and  oxalic  acid  on  colored 
materials. 

Iron:  Lemon  and  salt  followed  by  sunshine  are  often  effec' 
tive.  Moistening  with  hot  water  and  laying  oxahc 
crystals  on  the  spots  should  be  effective. 

Medicine:     Soak  in  alcohol. 

Mildew:  For  old  stains  treat  alternately  with  potassium  per' 
manganate  and  oxalic  acid. 

Milk:     Wash  in  warm  water  and  soap  suds. 

Paint:  Fresh  paint  should  come  out  with  water  and  yellow 
soap.   Turpentine,  gasoline  and  benzol  are  best  for  silks. 

Perspiration:  Try  weak  solution  sodium  hydrosulphite  and 
wash  in  water.  If  material  '\&  nonwashable  the  stain  is 
hopeless  to  remove. 

Water  Spots:     Steam  the  spot,  shake  dry  and  iron. 

Cleaning  Out  the  Coffee  Pot:  Boil  up  one  tablespoon  wash- 
ing soda  in  the  coffee  pot  full  of  water.  Boil  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Wash  several  times  with  fresh  water  and  stand 
in  the  direct  sunshine  to  dry. 

Cleaning  Stained  Knives:  Scour  with  sand'soap  and  raw 
potato.    Rub  with  a  moistened  cork. 


•4  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cleaning  Piano  Keys:  Wash  piano  keys  with  a  soft  cloth 
dampened  with  alcohol. 

Rowers:  To  keep  flowers  as  long  as  possible,  stand  them 
during  the  night  in  a  cool,  dark  place  in  a  tall  vase  soi 
that  the  water  reaches  almost  to  the  heads.  Cut  the 
stems  a  Httle  every  morning. 

A  small  quajitity  of  salt  or  a  five  grain  aspirin  tablet 
keeps  the  flowers  fresh. 

Wild  flowers  should  be  put  in  boiHng  water  as  soon  as 
they  are  picked.  Allow  the  water  to  cool  and  keep  the 
flowers  in  this  water. 

Roses  will  absorb  moisture  from  wet  waxed  paper  if  it  is 
placed  as  a  cap  over  the  bouquet  at  night 


p^traqos 


Hot  and  Cold 

HOT  DRINKS 

Coffee 

Never  make  coffee  in  a  tin  coffee  pot. 

PERCOLATED  COFFEE 

Put  grounds  in  the  coffee  compartment  of  the  percolator. 
Average  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  to  one  cup  of 
water.  Put  cold  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  percolator. 
Boil  for  five  minutes.  Boiling  is  figured  from  the  time  the 
water  first  trickles  over  the  coffee  grounds.  After  coffee  has 
boiled  violently  for  5  minutes,  turn  off  flame  completely  and 
allow  coffee  to  stand  for  another  five  minutes  in  a  warm  place. 
Serve. 

BOILED  COFFEE 

6  heaping  teaspoons  ground  1  egg 

coffee  1  cup  cold  water 

6  cups  boiling  water  Pinch  of  salt 

Scald  the  coffee  pot.  Place  coffee  in  pot,  add  pinch  of  salt,  six 
tablespoons  of  egg  water.  Stir  well  and  add  one-half  the  boil' 
ing  water  (3  cups).  Allow  to  boil  for  three  minutes,  add  the 
remaining  three  cups  of  boiling  water.  Keep  warm  but  do  not 
boil  further. 

Egg  water  is  made  by  beating  one  egg  while  pouring  on  1  cup 
cold  water.  This  may  be  kept  in  the  icebox  and  one  tablespoon 
of  egg  to  one  cup  of  coffee  used. 


6  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Milk 

Kettles  used  to  boil  milk  must  be  kept  scrupulously  dean. 
Wash  first  in  clear,  cold  water,  then  with  warm  water  and 
borax  and  after  rinsing  should  be  carefully  dried  and  if  pos' 
sible  stood  in  the  sun  for  a  time. 

Always  keep  milk  in  a  cool  place  for  it  is  very  quick  to  spoil. 
In  summer,  milk  for  infants  and  children  should  be  sterilized 
twice  a  day. 

To  Pasteurize  Milk: 

Boil  bottles  to  contain  sterile  milk  for  twenty  minutes  in  pure 
water.  Fill  clean  bottles  nearly  full  of  milk,  cork  them  with 
cotton  that  has  previously  been  baked  in  an  oven  and  not 
handled  by  hands,  place  suspended  on  rings  in  a  deep  pan  of 
cold  water  so  that  the  water  in  the  pans  just  covers  the  milk 
in  the  bottles. 

Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  and  heat  until  you  see  small  bubbles 
form  on  the  top  of  the  milk  in  the  bottles.  Lessen  the  amount 
of  heat,  but  allow  some  heat  for  about  one-quarter  hour.  Then 
chill  as  quickly  as  possible  and  when  the  milk  is  cold,  remove 
the  bottles  from  the  pan  of  water  and  set  them  in  the  icebox. 
In  very  hot  weather  even  this  treatment  only  keeps  the  milk 
sterile  for  about  twelve  hours. 

Tea 

2  cups  freshly  boiling  water         4  teaspoons  tea 
Scald  the  china  teapot;  put  in  the  tea,  pour  on  boiling  water; 
let  stand  to  steep  for  two  to  three  minutes.    Strain  when 
serving.  The  secret  of  well'brewed  tea  is  to  use  fresh  actively 
boiling  water. 

Russian  Tea 

1  cup  boiling  water  Clove  in  sUce  of  lemon 

1  loiif  sugar  Rum  drops 

1  preserved  cherry  1  tablespoon  strong  tea 

Cajnton  ginger 

The  tea  is  brewed  and  allowed  to  stand  xmtil  very  strong  and 

almost  black  in  color.   Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  strong 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  7 

tea  and  allow  to  stand  two  or  three  minutes.  The  sweetening 
and  trimmings  are  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  cup  or  tall 
glass  and  the  tea  poured  over  them. 

Chocolate 

V/z  ounces  bitter  chocolate  3  cups  milk 

1  cup  boiling  water  4  tablespoons  sugar 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  saucepan;  add  sugar  and  gradually  the 
boiling  water.    Stir  smooth,  allow  to  come  to  a  boil  and  add 
the  milk,  scalded. 
Beat  well  together  and  serve  with  salted  wafer. 

Cocoa 

2  teaspoons  cocoa  1  cup  boiling  water 
1  cup  milk                                       2  teaspoons  sugar 

Pour  the  boiling  water  onto  the  cocoa;  stir  until  the  cocoa 
dissolves.  Boil  about  five  minutes  imtil  cocoa  thickens.  This 
paste  may  be  kept  and  when  cocoa  is  wanted,  use  1  teaspoon 
paste  to  one  cup  hot  milk.    Stir  and  serve  with  sugar  to  taste. 

Hot  Lemonade  or  Orangeade  (for  colds) 

Juice  of  4  lemons  3  whole  cloves 

1  quart  cold  water  Bit  of  cinnamon  bark 

Boil  together  water,  sugar  and  spices.  Simmer  for  five  minutes 

and  then  strain.   Serve  as  hot  as  may  be  sipped. 

Hot  Malted  Milk 

3  teaspoons  malted  milk  Salt  and  white  pepper 

1  cup  hot  milk  1  tablespoon  boiling  water 
Mix  paste  of  malted  milk  and  boiling  water.   Stir  in  hot  milk 
and  add  seasoning.    Celery  salt  and  a  dot  of  butter  make  a 
palatable  addition. 

Hot  Egg  Malted  Milk 

2  tablespoons  malted  milk  2/3  cup  hot  milk 
1  egg  Grated  nutmeg 
Boiling  water 

Make  a  paste  of  malted  milk  in  boiling  water.  Beat  up  egg 
light  and  add  to  malted  milk.  Stir  smooth,  add  nutmeg  and 
serve. 

Hot  Chocolate  Malted  Milk 

Add  one  tablespoon  melted  sweet  chocolate,  to  one  cup  hot 
milk.   Sprinkle  grated  nutmeg  on  top  of  beverage. 


8  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

COLD  DRINKS 
Chocolate  Sauce  (For  Ice  Cream  and  Puddings) 

2  ounces  bitter  chocolate  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  quart  water  j/^  teaspoon  parafin 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water.  Add  the  chocolate, 
parafin  and  the  cornstarch  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water.  Ck)ok  three  minutes.  Add  vanilla,  cool  and  keep 
in  a  jar  in  the  icebox  for  use  over  ice  cream  and  over  certain 
puddings. 

Frosted  Chocolate 

Make  sufficient  quantity  of  hot  chocolate  for  needs.  Cool  and 
chill  in  icebox.  Serve  in  tall  glasses  with  plenty  of  cracked  ice. 

Frosted  Cocoa 

Same  as  for  frosted  chocolate. 

Frosted  Russian  Chocolate 

2  cups  strong  boiUng  black  2  cups  scalded  milk 
coffee  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

2  ounces  chocolate  Cinnamon 

Yl  cup  sugar  Nutmeg  grated 

Dissolve  cornstarch  in  coffee  and  cook  in  double  boiler  with 

coffee,  chocolate,  spices  and  sugar.   Then  add  the  milk  to  this 

thickened  liquid.    Stir  well  and  boil  for  one  quarter  hour. 

Serve  chilled  with  some  cracked  ice  in  tall  glasses. 

Maple  Float 

%  cup  milk  1  egg  yolk 

2  tablespoons  maple  syrup  Whipped  cream 

Beat  egg  yolk.   Add  syrup  and  milk  and  beat  or  shake.    Pour 

.into   glass;   add   whipped   cream.     Serve  with   sweet  wafers. 

Especially  liked  by  children;  a  wholesotne,  nourishing  drink. 

Iced  Tea 

Pour  strained  fresh  made  strong  tea  into  glasses  one'half  full 
of  ice  cubes.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  decorate  with  one  sHce 
of  lemon.   The  quicker  the  chilling,  the  better  the  flavor. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  9 

Iced  Coffee  ^^    s 

Strain  boiled  coffee,  add  sugar  to  taste,  chill  and  add  cream. 

Serve  in  tall  glasses  with  ice. 

Lemonade 

1  lemon  4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  water 

Squeeze  out  juice  of  one  lemon.  Dissolve  sugar  in  lemon 
juice  and  then  add  water.  Serve  with  ice  cubes  and  decorate 
with  one  slice  lemon  and  sprig  of  mint. 

Orangeade  -Ions  r  I 

Same  as  for  lemonade. 

Limeade 

Juice  of  three  fresh  limes  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Cold  water  Sprig  of  mint 

Place  all  ingredients  in  tall  glass  of  cracked  ice. 

Mint  Squash 

Four  sprigs  of  mint  1  tablespoon  powdered 

Juice  of  one  lemon  sugar 

Ginger  ale 
Bruise  all  but  tip  of  one  sprig  of  mint  in  a  glass.  Add  strips  of 
lemon  rind,  juice  of  the  lemon,  sugar  and  chill.   When  ready 
to  serve,  fill  glasses  with  ice  cubes,  pour  over  ginger  ale  and 
serve  with  sprig  of  mint  on  top  of  ice. 

Black  Cow 

Place  four  tablespoons  of  vanilla  ice  cream  in  a  tall  glass;  pour 
over  strong  root  beer  and  serve. 

Cider  Punch 

1  quart  cider  Juice  of  two  oranges 

1  quart  white  grape  juice  Juice  of  two  lemons 

2  quarts  water  1  cup  sugar 
Grate  part  of  orange  and  lemon  rinds. 

Dissolve  sugar  in  fruit  juices;  pour  in  cider  and  add  grated 
rinds.  Pour  over  lump  of  ice  for  use  in  a  punch  bowl. 


10  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Citrus  Punch 

Juice  of  6  lemons  1  cup  sugar 

Juice  of  6  oranges  1  cup  pineapple  shredded 

Yl  cup  green  maraschino  2  quarts  charged  water 

cherries  2  cups  water 
Yl  cup  red  maraschino 

cherries 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water;  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Cool  and  when  cold  add  the  fruit  and  fruit  juices.  When 
perfectly  cold  pour  in  charged  water  and  serve  over  ice. 

Lemon  Ice  Punch 

Place  one  quart  of  lemon  ice  (or  orange  ice)  in  a  punch  bowl. 
Stir  in  ginger  ale.  When  made  thick,  may  be  used  with  a  meat 
course;  when  thin,  serve  as  a  cold  drink. 


Bread, 

MscvdU 
6-' Roller 


Bread,  Rolls,  and  MufiFins 

Since  flour  must  be  kept  dry  to  bake  well,  it  is  often  advisable 

to  heat  it  in  the  oven  just  before  using  it.   Bread  after  baking 

should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Scald  the  milk  and  cool  it  before  making  bread.    Use  only 

lukewarm  Hquids  with  yeast  as  hot  water  kills  the  yeast  plant. 

Use  only  fresh  yeast. 

Wheat  flour  may  be  substituted  by  other  flours: 

1  cup  wheat  flour  equals:  %  cup  cornmeal 

lJ/2  cups  rolled  oats  %  cup  potato  flour 

f^  cup  rice 

%  cup  buckwheat 

Butter  may  be  substituted  by  other  fats: 

1  cup  butter  equals:  %  cup  cotton  seed  oil 

1  cup  butterine  %  cup  peanut  oil 

1  cup  nut  butter 

By  using  J^  quantity  substitute  with  ^  wheat  flour,  a  very 

satisfactory  product  may  be  made  and  an  economy  accom- 

plished. 

Bran  Health  Bread 

4  cups  bran  flour  1  cup  dark  molasses 

4  cups  white  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  cups  milk  J/2  cup  raisins 

4  teaspoons  baking  soda  Yz  cup  nut  meats 

Mix  molasses  and  milk;  add  bran.  Sift  the  white  flour  into  the 

salt  and  baking  soda.   Add  to  the  liqxiid  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Place  in  greased  low  pans  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate 

oven. 


11 


12  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Buttermilk  Bread  fV^Y/l 

V/z  cups  buttermilk  1  teaspoon  sugar 

4  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  2J/2  teaspoons  cream  of 

\/^  teaspoon  salt  tartar 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  egg  beaten  well,  and  mix  all 
thoroughly.  Place  in  bread  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  one'half  hour. 

Com  Bread 

%  cup  commeal  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

V/4  cups  floxir  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

5  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

1  cup  milk  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.    Beat  the  egg,  pour  in  the 
milk  and  add  the  melted  butter.    Beat  all  together  well  and 
bake  in  low  pans  for  onC'half  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  split  with  dots  of  butter  and  maple  syrup  or  com  syrup. 

Gluten  Bread 

6  cups  gluten  flour  J/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

3  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar  (unless 
1  egg  for  diabetic  patient) 
Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  milk.  Mix  flour  and  milk  and  allow  to 
stand  and  rise.  Add  salt,  butter,  sugar,  egg  beaten  well  and 
more  flour  to  knead.  Shape  into  loaves  and  bake  in  a  moder' 
ate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  for  about  one  hour. 

Quick  Raisin  Bread 

1  cup  raisins  1  cup  milk 

2j/^  cups  graham  flour  J4  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  I  tablespoon  shortening 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Add  dry  ingredients  to  the  milk  and  mix  thoroughly.    Add 
shortening  and  raisins.   Beat  together  well. 
Turn  into  greased  baking  pan;  let  rise  in  warm  place  and  bake 
for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  13 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

2f4  cups  graham  flour  2  teaspoons  soda 

Yl  cup  molasses  1  cup  sour  milk 

Yl  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg 

Add  sugar  and  molasses  to  beaten  egg.    Mix  with  rest  of 

ingredients.   Yl  cup  raisins  may  be  added. 

Place  in  three  one'pound  baking  powder  cans,  well  greased. 

Steam  for  two  hours  or  more.    See  that  can  covers  fit  very 

close. 

Dark  Bread 

\Yl  cups  graham  flour  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  wheat  flour  \Yi  cups  sour  milk 

Y^  cup  nuts,  chopped  \Yi  teaspoon  soda 

1/3  cup  dark  molasses 

Mix  dry  ingredients  with  the  milk,  add  the  molasses  and  last 

the  nut  meats.    Stir  well.    Place  in  a  greased  bread  pan  and 

bake  in  a  moderate  to  low  oven  (325  degrees  F.)  for  one  hoxir. 

Graham  Bread 

3  cups  graham  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  wheat  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yn  cake  compressed  yeast  lYl  cups  lukewarm  water 

Ya  cup  sugar 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  lukewarm  water. 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  butter  and  salt  in   mixing  bowl.    Knead 

lightly  and  place  dough  in  warm  place  to  rise.    When  dough 

has  risen,  knead  once  more  and  then  place  in  floured  pans. 

Allow  to  rise  once  more  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350 

degrees  F.).    This  dough  is  very  light  and  should  be  beaten 

well  to  get  in  plenty  of  air  bubbles.    If  a  very  soft  dough  is 

desired,  more  wheat  flour  may  be  used  and  dough  poured  into 

pans  after  thorough  beating. 

Light  Nut  Bread 

Yl  cup  nut  meats,  chopped  Yl  cup  sugar 

2  J/2  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  egg  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 


14  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Beat  the  egg  into  the  milk,  add  the  dry  ingredients  and  let 
stand  fifteen  minutes  in  a  greased  bread  pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  for  one-half  hour 
or  more. 

Nut  and  Raisin  Bread 

V/z  cups  flour  %  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  com  meal  1  cup  milk 

Yz  cup  brown  sugar  Yz  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  salt  ]/4  teaspoon  soda 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  together  all  dry  ingredients,  add  nuts  and  raisins,  add  milk 
and  mix  well,  then  add  molasses  and  soda  which  have  been 
mixed  together.  Bake  in  two  small  greased  loaf  pans  in  moder- 
ate  oven  about  45  minutes. 

Oatmeal  Bread 

V/z  cups  rolled  oats  14  cup  sugar 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  teaspoons  salt 

5  cups  wheat  flour  2  cups  hot  water 
Dissolve  yeast  in  additional  14  cup  warm  water. 

Soak  oats  in  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  sugar  and  let  cool  to 
tepid  temperature.  Add  the  dissolved  yeast,  then  the  flour. 
Knead  well  until  dough  is  smooth.  Cover  and  allow  to  rise 
to  twice  its  bulk.  Shape  into  loaves  and  place  in  well  floured 
pans  (should  make  two  loaves).  Allow  again  to  stand  and 
double  bulk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  for 
one  hour. 

Whole  Wheat  Prune  Bread 

2J/2  cups  whole  wheat  flour  1  cup  milk 

14  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  shortening 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  prunes 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  prunes,  soak  several  hours,  drain,  stone  and  chop.  Mix 
and  sift  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder;  add  milk  and  beat 
well.  Add  prunes  and  melted  shortening.  Put  into  greased 
bread  pans.  Allow  to  stand  20  to  25  minutes  in  warm  place, 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  1  hour.  Dates,  raisins  or  nuts  may 
be  used  instead  of  prunes. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  15 

Spoon  Bread 

J/2  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  yellow  commeal  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  2  cups  boiling  water 
2  cups  milk 

Pour  hot  water  over  commeal,  stir  well  and  allow  to  cool  off. 
Beat  eggs  well  and  add  melted  butter,  salt  and  milL  Stir  well. 
Pour  into  baking  dish  and  bake  threcquarters  of  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.   Serve  from  the  dish  with  a  spoon. 

Raisin  Bread 

Y^  cup  raisins  1/3  cup  butter  or  substitute 

1  pint  hot  milk  yi  cup  sugar 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  salt 

8  cups  flour  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

Dissolve  yeast  in  Yi  cup  lukewarm  milk.  Place  butter,  sugar 
and  salt  in  mixing  bowl  and  add  rest  of  hot  milk.  Allow  to 
cool  to  tepid  temperature  then  add  beaten  egg  and  the  dis' 
solved  yeast. 

Add  flour  and  turn  out  onto  a  floured  board.  Knead  well, 
adding  raisins.  Return  to  the  bowl,  cover  and  allow  to  stand 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Form  into  loaves  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour 
or  until  the  loaves  are  nicely  browned. 

Wheat  Bread 

O/i  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Yl  ounce  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  cups  scalded  milk  or  1  tablespoon  butter  or  sub' 
boiling  water  stitute 

Makes  two  loaves 
Dissolve  yeast  in  Yl  cup  lukewarm  water.    Place  sugar,  salt 
and  butter  in  large  mixing  bowl;  pour  on  the  hot  milk.   Add 
five  cups  flour  to  the  yeast  paste  and  stir  well.  Add  last  cup 
of  flour  and  knead  the  dough  until  soft  and  pliable. 
Return  to  the  bowl,  cover  and  allow  to  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  the  dough  rises  to  almost  twice  the  original  si^e.    Place 
on  floured  board,  divide  the  bulk  in  two  and  knead  each  part. 
Shape  into  loaves  and  place  in  floured  bread  pans. 
Stand  once  more  in  warm  place  and  allow  to  rise  again  to 
twice  original  bulk.   Test  the  oven:  if  a  piece  of  paper  turns 


16  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

dark  brown  within  five  minutes,  the  oven  is  "hot"  and  the 
right  temperature  for  baking  bread.  Bake  the  bread  for  one 
hour  at  constant  temperature. 

Remove  loaves  from  pans  and  let  stand  in  current  of  air  to 
form  hard  crust. 

Light  Nut  Bread 

^  cups  sugar  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  milk 

4  cups  flour  1  cup  nuts,  cut  small 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  milk  and  bake  in  moderate 

oven. 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

4  cups  whole  wheat  flour  1  cup  wheat  flour 
1  cake  compressed  yeast                2  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  milk 

Dissolve  yeast  in  a  Httle  lukewarm  water. 

Mix  hot  water  with  milk  and  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin 

batter.    Beat  this  well  to  let  in  air  bubbles.    Add  sugar  and 

salt.  Let  stand  in  warm  place  until  dough  rises.    Stir  in  more 

flour,  knead  well,  making  a  light  dough.    Mold  into  loaves, 

place  in  buttered  pans  and  allow  to  stand  in  warmth  to  rise 

once  more. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350  degrees  F.)    for  about   V/z 

hours. 

One  half  cup  nuts  and  one  half  cup  raisins  may  be  added  to 

the  batter  if  desired. 

Old  Fashioned  Johnny  Bread 

V/z  cups  white  flour     "'^^^  •        4  tablespoons  sugar 
1  cup  white  or  yellow  cbiTi'  1  egg 

meal  V/z  cups  milk  or  water 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  3  tablespoons  shortening 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  unbeaten  egg,  milk  or 
water  and  melted  shortening.  Mix  thoroughly  and  quickly, 
keeping  spoon  on  bottom  of  bowl  and  stirring  in  ever'widening 
circles.  Pour  into  well  greased  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  hot  oven  (375  degrees)  35  to  40  minutes. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  17 

Quick  Brown  Bread 

V/z  cups  graham  flour  J4  cup  granulated  sugar 

V/z  cups  white  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

V/z  cups  buttermilk  or  plain  1  scant  teaspoon  baking  soda 

sour  milk 
Stir  well  and  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Recipe  makes 
one  loaf. 

Rye  Bread  with  Caraway 

4  cups  rye  flour  1  cup  riced  potatoes 

2  cups  wheat  flour  1  pint  water  drained  from 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  potatoes 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  teaspoon  caraway  seed 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

Dissolve  yeast  in  ]/4  cup  of  lukewarm  potato  water;  add  sugar 

and  place  with  rest  of  hot  potato  water  and  milk  in  a  mixing 

bowl.    Stir  in  the  salt,  flours  and  caraway  seed.    Knead  well 

on  floured  board.  Return  to  bowl,  cover  and  allow  to  rise  in  a 

warm  place.    Form  into  loaves,  place  in  floured  pans  and  al' 

lowed  to  rise  further.  When  size  has  almost  doubled,  bake  in 

a  hot  oven  (375  degrees  F.)  for  one  hour  or  more. 

Pumpernickel 

Follow  the  same  directions  as  for  Caraway  rye  bread,  but  use 

rye  graham  instead  of  the  rye  flour.    Use  smaller  pans  and 

bake  very  thoroughly. 

Freshen  stale  breaed  by  dipping  it  into  cold  milk  and  placing 

it  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  until  it  is  thoroughly  warmed  through. 

The  moisture  goes  into  the  bread. 

Stale  bread  crumbs  should  be  kept  in  tight  jars  so  that  they 

will  not  mold. 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

Use  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  for  one  cup  flour.    Less 
baking  powder  is  needed  if  eggs  are  contained  in  recipe. 

Bake  soft  doughs  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450  degrees  F).    StiflB 
doughs  for  quick  biscuits  should  stand  in  a  warm  place  to 


18  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

rise  for  fifteen  minutes  and   then  baked.    Have  the  oven 
heating  while  mixing  the  ingredients. 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  cups  white  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk 

Work  the  flour  into  the  butter  with  a  fork;  add  the  milk 
gradually  xintil  enough  milk  has  been  added  to  make  the 
dough  easy  to  handle  and  shape.  Add  the  sifted  dry  ingredi- 
ents and  roll  out  about  Vz  inch  thick  on  a  lightly  floured 
board.  Cut  round  with  a  cooky  cutter  or  the  top  of  a  water 
glass.  Bake  quickly  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450  degrees  F.)  for 
about  ten  minutes. 
Serve  very  hot  with  butter  and  jam. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  for  Shortcake 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  Y^  cup  milk 

2  cups  white  flour  J4  cup  shortening 
\Vl  tablespoons  sugar                    Vx  teaspoon  salt 

Work  flour  into  butter,  then  the  other  dry  ingredients.  Add 
the  milk  gradually  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Pat  and  roll  on  a 
lightly  floxired  board  and  cut  with  a  very  large  round  cutter 
or  spread  flat  in  flat  cake  pans.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes. 

SpUt  and  use  for  shortcake.  Crush  strawberries  or  peaches 
and  slice  bananas.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  use  either  whipped 
cream  or  heavy  unwhipped  cream.  Place  biscuits  on  plate 
with  split  sides  up,  one  on  top  of  the  other  with  the  fruit 
between  and  (Ki  top. 


Soda  Biscuits 

Yl  teaspoon  soda  ^  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  white  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon .  baking  pow  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

der 
Work  flour  into  butter  thoroughly.   Add  the  dry  ingredients 
and  then  pour  on  the  milk  gradually.    Roll  out  and  cut  into 
rounds  or  drop  into  greased  muffin  pan. 
Bake  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees  F.). 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  19 

Quick  Tea  Biscuit 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 

ing  powder  Pinch  salt 

2  tablespoons  lard 

Stir  well  and  drop  from  spoon  in  buttered  gem  pan.  Bake  in 
hot  oven. 

Never  Fail  Biscuit 

3  cups  of  flour  1  teaspoonful  salt 
3  teaspoonfuls  of  shortening          %  cup  sweet  milk 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder 

Mix  dry,  cut  shortening  in  with  knife.  Add  milk  and  mix 
quickly.  Do  not  roll. 

Cheese  Biscuits 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour  and  three  teaspoons  baking  pow 
der;  add  three'fourths  cup  grated  American  cheese  and  one 
half  teaspoon  salt.  Add  two  tablespoons  butter  and  mix  in 
thoroughly  with  steel  fork.  Add  one  cup  milk.  Drop  from 
spoon  in  small  portions  on  baking  sheet.  Bake  15  minutes 
in  moderate  oven  (375  degrees).  Makes  about  eighteen  small 
biscuits. 

Quick  Parker  House  Rolls 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  shortening, 

4  cups  white  flour  melted 

V/z  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  together  the  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt.  Add  the  milk 
and  melted  shortening  slowly  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Stir  all 
together  until  smooth.  Roll  to  Yz  inch  thickness  on  a  lightly 
floured  board.  Cut  round  with  a  glass  or  with  a  cookie  cutter. 
Fold  over  the  finger  and  pinch  down  the  edges.  Stand  in  a 
pan  in  a  warm  place  and  allow  to  rise.  Separate  rolls  if  neces' 
sary  after  rising.  Paint  tops  with  butter  and  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450  degrees  F.). 
Serve  warm  with  butter. 


20  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Blueberry  Gems 

1  cup  blueberries  1  egg 

2  J/2  cups  flour  J4  cup  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  J4  cup  shortening  or  butter 

1  cup  milk  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  Yi  cup  flour  with  the  blueberries  and  allow  to  stand  for 

one  hour. 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar  and  add  the  beaten  egg.   Sift 

the  flour  with  the  salt  and  baking  powder.   Add  Yl  cup  milk 

to  the  berries  and  Yl  cup  milk  to  the  sifted  flour.  Mix  all  the 

ingredients  adding  the  berries  last. 

Bake  for  one'half  hour  in  a  hot  oven  in  greased  muffin  tins. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  tablespoons  citron 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yl  cup  raisons  or  currents 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub'  Yl  cup  milk 

stitute  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  flour  with  butter  and  add  mflk,  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  turn  out  onto  floured  board.  Roll  quite 
thin  and  paint  with  melted  butter.  Spread  raisins  and  citron 
which  have  been  chopped,  cinnamon  mixed  with  sugar  and 
roll  over  and  over  Hke  a  jelly  roll. 

Cut  into  pieces  an  inch  thick  and  arrange  on  flat  side  in 
greased  pans.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  one-quarter  hour. 

Bran  Muffins 

1  cup  bran  flour  2  tablespoons  molasses 

2  cups  graham  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 
\Yl  cups  milk  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  milk  and  molasses,  add  the  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  a 
very  hot  oven  for  one  hour.  This  redpe  should  make  a  dozen 
muffins. 

Cheese  Rolls 

y^  cup  grated  American  1  cup  milk 

cheese  2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub' 
2  cups  flour  stitute 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  salt 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  21 

Work  flour  into  butter,  add  the  other  dry  ingredients,  then 
stir  in  the  milk  gradually.  Mix  well  and  add  the  grated  cheese. 
Pat  and  roll  to  onchalf  inch  thickness  on  a  lightly  floured 
board.  Cut  with  round  cookie  cutter  and  bake  in  a  greased 
pan  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven, 

French  Rolls 

4  cups  flour  Yl  cup  butter 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  lukewarm  water  1  egg 
Yl  cup  sugar 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  little  warm  water. 

Beat  the  egg,  and  add  to  the  dissolved  yeast.    Cream  butter 

with  the  sugar.  Add  the  flour  and  the  rest  of  the  warm  water. 

Knead  well.   This  should  be  a  stiff  dough;  add  more  flour  if 

necessary.  Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  bulk  has 

doubled,  turn  out  on  a  floured  board.  Roll  or  braid  into  small 

rolls;  put  into  greased  or  floured  pan  and  let  rise  again  to 

double  the  bulk.     Bake  in  a  very  hot  hoven  (400  degrees  F.) 

for  about  fifteen  minutes. 

If  kept  in  an  icebox  this  dough  will  keep  and  requires  only  tQ 

be  kneaded,  risen  and  baked- 


Parker  House  Rolls 

1  quart  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yl  ounce  compressed  yeast  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  warm  milk  2  eggs 

J4  cup  sugar  2  large  baked  potatoes 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  little  warm  milk. 

Mix  the  butter,  milk,  salt  and  sugar.  Crumble  the  potato  while 
still  hot  and  knead  into  flour,  yeast  and  liquid  ingredients. 
Roll  out  thin  on  a  floured  board  and  cut  with  a  small  round 
biscuit  cutter.  Fold  over  the  finger  so  that  edges  lap.  Set  close 
to  one  another  in  a  greased  pan,  allow  to  rise  and  then  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  (375  degrees  F.)  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
warm,  with  butter. 


22  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Light  Roils 

1  medium  size  potato  (mash)  %  cup  shortening 

|/2  cup  potato  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  warm  milk  6J/2  cups  flour 

1  cake  yeast  Ys  cup  sugar 

Bake  20  minutes  in  a  medium  oven. 


Potato  Rolls 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  hot 

^  cup  sugar  water 

f^  cup  lard  5  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  potato,  sugar,  lard,  and  salt,  and  then  add  the  milk 

(scalded).   When  lukewarm,  add  the  eggs,  yeast,  and  one  cup 

of  flour.   Beat  well,  then  let  stand  two  hours  in  a  warm  place. 

Add  four  cups  flour  and  let  stand  two  more  hours.    Make 

into  rolls,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible.   Do  not  kneed.   Let 

stand  one  hour  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 


Delicious  Breakfast  Rolls 

4  cupfuls  of  flour  Yz   cupful   of  any  kind  of 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  shortening 

powder  Enough  milk  to  make  a  stiflF 

]/4  teaspoonful  salt  dough 

lYz  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Cut  in  the  shortening.  Add 
the  milk.  Toss  on  a  floured  baking  board,  roll  half  an  inch  in 
thickness.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Place  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter on  each.  Fold  in  half.  Place  in  a  sHghtly  floured  baking 
pan.  Bake  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Rye  Bread  Rolls 

4  cups  rye  flour  1  tablespoon  shortening 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder  6  teaspoons  caraway  seed 

V/z  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  23 

Mix  shortening^  and  milk  and  add  the  sifted  dry  ingredients, 
using  half  the  caraway  seed.  Turn  out  on  a  floured  board  and 
knead  well.  Shape  into  small  rolls  and  arrange  on  a  greased 
pan  a  few  inches  apart  to  allow  for  rising.  Let  stand  for 
twenty  minutes. 

Paint  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg;  sprinkle  caraway  seed  on  top 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  one'half  hour  until  thoroughly 
baked. 


Cornmcal  Muffins 

1  cup  cornmeal  2  cups  white  flour 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1/3  cup  butter 

2  eggs  ^  Yi  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  baking  powder,  flour,  cornmeal,  salt.  Cream  the  butter 
with  the  sugar  and  add  the  beaten  eggs  whole.  Beat  all  thor' 
oughly  and  then  add  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk 
gradually.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  for  fifteen  minutes  in 
a  hot  oven. 


Southern  Com  Pone 

2  cups  yellow  cornmeal  2  cups  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  cornmeal,  salt  and  melted  fat.    Pour  on  boiling  water. 

Beat  very  well  and  allow  to  cool.   Mold  into  thin  cakes  and 

bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees  F.)  for  one-half  hour,  until 

crisp  and  brown. 

Serve  warm  with  butter. 


Oat  Cakes 

Mix  1  tablespoon  butter,  Yi  teaspoon  salt  and  J4  teaspoon 
baking  soda  with  1  cup  boiling  water.  Stir  in  enough  oatmeal 
to  make  a  stifi"  dough.  Knead  well  and  roll  out  thin,  cut  into 
squares  and  bake  on  a  frjdng  pan  or  griddle.  Dry  out  in  a 
warm  oven. 
Serve  with  butter  and  syrup. 


24;  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Graham  Flour  Muffins 

1  cup  graham  flour  1  cup  milk 
Yz  cup  white  flour  1  egg 

"hYl  teaspoons  baking  34  teaspoon  salt 

powder 
Beat  the  egg  well.    Sift  the  flour  to  remove  any  coarse  bran 
flakes.    Mix  with  salt  and  the  baking  powder.    Add  the  egg 
and  pour  in  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  beat  well  and 
bake  in  buttered  muffin  tins  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Popovers 

1%  cups  milk  2  eggs 

J/2  teaspoonful  salt  1%  cups  flour. 

Yz  teaspoonful  sugar 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly.   Add  sugar  and  salt.    Slowly  add  one 

and  onc'third  cups  of  milk  and  one  and  onc'third  cups  of  flour 

(the  more  you  beat  this  the  lighter  it  will  get).    Fill  muffin 

pans  half  full,  bake  about  thirty  minutes.   This  makes  twelve 

good'sized  popovers. 

Popovers 

Sift  one  cup  flour  and  Y^  teaspoon  salt  together.  Beat  one  egg 

and  add  1  cup  milk  to  it.   Stir  this  gradually  into  the  flour  to 

make  a  smooth  thin  batter. 

Beat  hard  with  an  egg  beater  whipping  in  the  air  bubbles.  The 

more  beating,  the  higher  the  popovers  will  rise. 

Fill  greased,  heated  muffin  pans  half  full  of  the  batter.  Bake  in 

ia.  very  hot  oven   (450  degrees  F.)   for  one-half  hour,  then 

reduce  heat  to  about  350  degrees  F.  for  fifteen  minutes  when 

popovers  will  be  "popped"  and  brown. 

Serve  hot  and  at  once,  with  butter  and  jam  or  honey. 

Potato  Flour  Muffins 

Yl  cup  white  potato  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Ya  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  ice  water 
Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  twice. 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  sugar  and  salt.    Beat  the  whites  imtil 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  25 

very  stiff.  Add  the  beaten  whites  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  add 
the  dry  ingredients. 

Beat  all  together  thoroughly  and  add  the  ice  water  last.  Bake 
in  greased  mu£&n  tins  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  butter. 


Whole  Wheat  MuflFins 

Yl  cup  whole  wheat  flour  1  egg 

XYz  cups  white  wheat  flour  Icup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yi  cup  brown  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  sub'  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

stitute 
Beat  the  yolk  and  add  to  the  milk.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and 
work  into  the  butter.   Stir  all  together  until  smooth. 
Fold  in  the  beaten  white.    Turn  into  heated,  greased  muflSn 
pans  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450  degrees  F.)  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

Scones 

1  cup  flour  Yl  cup  buttermilk 
Yl  teaspoon  soda  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  soda.  Add  enough  sour  milk  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Mix  well. 

Roll  onto  a  lightly  floured  board  to  about  Yl  inch  thickness. 
Cut  round  with  a  cookie  cutter  and  bake  on  a  griddle.  Brown 
on  both  sides  and  serve  hot  with  butter  and  jam. 

Com  Muffins 

2  cups  com  meal  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  flour  J4  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  sugar  3  tablespoons  melted  short' 

1  teaspoon  salt  ening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Pour  Yl  cup  scalding  water  over  com  meal.    Let  stand  until 
cool.    Mix  all  other  ingredients  with  com  meal  except  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  beat  well.    Add  flour  and  baking 
powder.   Bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 


26  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Raspberry  MujBfms 

Three  tablespoons  of  butter  Yi  teaspoon  of  salt 

f^  cup  of  sugar  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  baking  soda 

XYl  cups  of  flour  1  cup  raspberries 

Cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  beaten  egg 

and  milk  alternately  with  the  flour,  salt,  cinnamon  and  soda 

sifted  together.   Flour  the  raspberries  with  an  additional  two 

tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  add  them  to  the  batter,  and  bake  in 

greased  muffin  tins,  in  a  hot  oven  for  25  minutes. 

This  mixture  also  makes  delicious  cakes  for  tea  when  baked  in 

patty  tins,  or  may  be  served  as  a  sweet  with  lemon  sauce. 

Blueberry  Muffins 

Sift  and  mix  thoroughly  l|/2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder.  To  the  above  then  add  4  tabic 
spoons  melted  butter,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  milk,  and  1  box 
blueberries  that  have  been  dredged  in  ]/£  cup  flour.  Bake  in 
hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

Quick  Muffins 

8  tablespoons  flour  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  mixing  bowl;  drop  egg  in  center,  add 

milk,  a  little  at  time,  and  beat  until  smooth.    Add  melted 

butter  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  about  fifteen 

minutes. 

Dry  Toast 

Place  slices  of  bread  close  to  the  flame  in  broiling  oven.  When 
golden  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  toast  on  other  side.  Serve 
hot  with  or  without  butter. 

Melba  Toast 

Cut  bread  as  thin  as  possible  and  toast  very  crisp.  Serve  with 
jelly  at  tea  or  dry  with  soup  course. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  27 

Milk  Toast 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  one  tablespoon  flour  and 
brown.  Stir  in  two  cups  of  milk  and  one'half  teaspoon  salt. 
Stir  and  heat  until  this  thickens  slightly.  Pour  over  slices  of 
dry  toast  Serve  very  hot 

Ciimamon  Toast 

Toast  bread  in  broiling  oven.  Butter  quickly  and  sprinkle  on 
a  mixture  of  one-third  cinnamon  and  two-thirds  sugar.  Return 
to  oven  and  allow  sugar  and  butter  to  soak  in.  Serve  with 
afternoon  tea. 

Sweet  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  flour  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  egg  well,  add  the  milk  and  the  butter  melted.    Sift 

the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  stir  all  together  to  make 

a  smooth,  thin  batter.    If  batter  is  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more 

milk. 

Heat  and  grease  an  iron  griddle.    Spoon  off  batter  into  hot 

griddle.    Bake  until  the  cake  is  full  of  air  bubbles,  turn  over 

with  a  pancake  turner  and  brown  on  other  side.    Remove  all 

drippings  after  each  cake  is  browned  and  wipe  griddle  off  with 

waxed  paper  or  greased  cloth. 

Serve  hot  with  butter  and  syrup. 


Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

Mix  2|/^  cups  of  flour,  Yz  teaspoon  salt  and  lJ4  teaspoons  bak- 
ing soda.  Add  2  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  beaten  egg  and  1  tea- 
spoon butter.  Beat  all  together  to  make  smooth  batter. 
Spoon  off  batter  onto  a  heated,  greased  iron  griddle.  Brown 
on  one  side  and  when  filled  with  bubbles,  turn  and  brown 
on  other  side. 
Serve  with  butter  and  syrup  or  with  b\itter  and  sugar. 


28  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

3J/2  cups  buckwheat  flour  1  quart  water 

Yl  cup  white  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yl  ounce  compressed  yeast  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  molasses 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  little  tepid  water.   Add  the  sugar  and 

the  rest  of  the  water,  also  tepid.  Mix  with  the  buckwheat  and 

white  flours  and  salt  to  make  a  hght  batter. 

Raise  over  night,  add  the  molasses  and  bake  on  a  greased, 

heated  iron  griddle  browning  well  on  both  sides. 

Serve  steaming  hot  with  butter  and  syrup  or  sugar. 

Cheese  Cookies 

1  pkg.  Philadelphia  cream  14  lb.  butter 

cheese  J4  cup  sugar 

Yolk  one  egg  1  cup  flour  , 

Cream  butter  and  cheese  with  yolk  of  egg,  flour  and  sugar 
and  irrix  well — put  in  ice  box  over  night.  In  morning,  roll  out, 
cut  into  shapes — spread  each  cookie  with  beaten  white  of 
egg — then  cinnamon  and  sugar  mixed  together.  Place  a  nut 
into  each  cookie  and  bake. 

Crisp  Corn  Sticks 

1  egg  |/^  teaspoon  Scdt 

Yz  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  baking  pow 

2  tablespoons  sxigar  der 

Ya  cup  canned  com  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

1  cup  hard  wheat  or  bread  other  fat,  melted 

flour  (measured  after  sift' 

ing) 
Beat  the  egg,  add  milk,  sugar  and  canned  com,  stir  until  well 
mixed.  Measure  the  ffouL  salt  and  baking  powder,  add  these 
ingredients  through  a  $^*^  to  the  egg  mixture.  Mix  well. 
Then  add  the  melted  faOfe  ♦■  until  the  ingredients  are  thor' 
oughly  blended.  Grease  fcr'^^i^-^ck  pans,  fill  each  section  of 
the  pan  about  two'third^-?"  -  ^ake  at  400  degrees  for  25 
minutes.  Serve  hot  with  soup  oi'^Iads. 
Yield:   Twelve  sticks,  about  seven  inches  long. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  29 

Rye  Drop  Cakes 

1  egg,  well  beaten  Yl  level  teaspoon  salt 

2/3  cup  rye  flour  J/2  c^P  n^i^k 

lYl  teaspoons  baking  2  tablespoons  molasses 

powder 
Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.    Add  gradually, 
milk,  molasses  and  the  egg.    Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  new  hot 
fat;  drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  hot. 

Twenty  Minute  Coffee  Cake 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  tablespoons  butter  '"^ 
Yl  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  flour  \y^  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  egg  (well  beaten)  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  soda  and  milk.  Add  egg,  salt,  sugar,  butter,  flour,  and 
beat  very  hard;  then  add  baking  powder.  Sprinkle  on  top 
granulated  sugar,  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter  and  nuts.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes.  •     >     j     v        i     '•. 

Pf effermisse  (Pepper  Nuts)  "^    , 

1  pound  flour  1  nutmeg  (grated) 

1  poimd  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon        ,  ^ 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  ounces  citron  '  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  ounce  lemon  rind                        Yi,  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  and  then  mix  in  spices,  citron  and  lemon 
peel  cut  .fine.  Add  flour,  to  which  baking  powder  and  salt 
have  been  added,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Drop  by  spoonful  on 
cookie  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  15  minutes. 

Cheese  Dainties  ... 

Yl  pound  cottage  cheese  ^"*^  '* 

1  box  soda  crackers  -ablespoon  water 

Spread  some  of  the  cheese,  a^         tne-quarter  inch  thick,  be- 

tween  two  buttered  crackers      *        tgg  and  add  water.    Dip 

sandwich  in  egg.    Butter  p*wi  and  fry  until  brown  on  both 

sides. 


so  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Philadelphia  Cream  Cheese  Cookies 

Yl  pound  sweet  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  cakes  Philadelphia  cream  2  tablespoons  sugar 

cheese,  creamed  with  the  2  teaspoons  baidng  powder 

butter 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  work  into  cheese  and  butter. 
Roll  out  to  i4  inch,  top  with  poppy  seed  or  cottage  cheese  or 
prune  jam.   Bake  in  quick  oven  20  minutes. 


Pimento  Sandwich  Filling 

(1)  Chop  fine  J4  pound  (2)  Yi  cup  Cream 
cheese  I  egg  beaten 

1  can  pimentos  and  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  1  heaping  tablespoon 

sugar  and  flour 
A  httle  butter  and  salt 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  add  to  part  (1) 
while  hot 


Pop-Overs 

1  cup  floxir  2  eggs 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  salt  and  flour,  stir  in  milk  gradually,  add  eggs  beaten  until 

light,  add  butter,  beat  two  minutes  using  egg  beater. 

Bake  30  minutes  in  very  hot  buttered  pans. 


Potato  Doughnuts 

Cream  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  thrcC'fourths  cup  of. 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  white — one  cup  of 
freshly  mashed  potatoes,  onc'fourth  cup  of  milk,  two  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt;  flavor  with  grated  nutmeg. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  31 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  then  the  eggs;  stir  in  the  potato 
which  has  been  hghtened  with  the  egg  white,  beaten  stiff.  Add 
milk  and  flour  gradually.  Chill  on  ice  before  rolling  out. 
The  less  flovir  used,  the  more  moist  will  be  the  doughnuts. 


Cheese  Straws 

2  cups  sifted  pastry  flour  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yi  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  dry  grated  cheese 

Yl  cup  butter 

Y^  teaspoon  paprika  or  red  pepper 

Mix  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  red  pepper  and  sift  three 
times.  Put  in  mixing  bowl,  chop  in  butter  and  drop  in  egg 
without  beating.  Add  cheese  and  milk  and  mix  together;  turn 
out  on  molding  board;  roll  out  Y%  inch  thick;  cut  4  inches  long 
and  Ya  inch  wide  sticks.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  light 
brown. 


Cheese  Turn-Overs 

2  packages  cream  cheese  Yl  pound  butter 

Mix  well.  Knead  in  2  cups  sifted  flour.  Let  stand  in  cold 
place  several  hours  or  over  night.  Roll  out  thin.  Cut  in 
squares.  Put  jam  in  center  and  turn  over.  Bake  about  15 
minutes. 


Pancake 

Beat  two  eggs  well.  Add  )4  cup  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk  and 
Yl  teaspoon  salt.  Heat  spider  in  the  oven,  melt  2  tablespoons 
butter  in  it  and  pour  in  the  batter. 

Return  to  hot  oven,  allow  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes,  gradu' 
ally  lessening  heat.  Serve  quickly  on  hot  platter  with  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  lemon  juice  sprinkled  on  top. 


32  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

German  Pancakes 

Yl  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yz  cup  flour  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs 

Use  a  t«i  inch  spider. 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  with  a  whirling  egg  beater.  Add  the 

flour,  salt  and  milk  beating  all  the  while. 

Take  a  cold  spider,  spread  on  butter,  turn  in  the  batter  and 

bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  one'half  hour  gradually  reducing  heat. 

The  pancake  should  behave  much  like  a  large  popover.    It 

should  puff  up  and  become  brown  and  crisp,  but  will  fall  upon 

being  removed  from  the  oven. 

Place  on  a  hot  plate  and  serve  with  sugar,  apple  sauce  or 
lemon  juice. 

French  Pancakes 

3  eggs  lYi  cups  milk 

1  cup  flour  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  the  eggs  well.  Add  the  milk  and  then  the  sifted  flour  and 

salt.  Heat  an  iron  spider,  melt  one  teaspoon  butter  into  spider, 

spoon  in  a  little  batter  and  allow  to  spread  thin  over  spider. 

When  brown  turn  with  a  pancake  turner  and  brown  other 

side. 

Spread  thin  jelly  on  each  pancake,  roll  up  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.   Serve  hot  as  breakfast  or  lunch  dish. 

Potato  Pancakes 

6  raw  potatoes 

Peel  potatoes  and  soak  two  hours  in  cold  water.  Grate  and 
drain.  Beat  two  eggs  and  mix  with  about  two  tablespoons 
flour,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  Y&  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Moisten  with 'a  Httle  milk  and  beat  up  with  grated  potatoes. 
This  will  make  a  thin  batter. 

Spoon  onto  a  hot  greased  spider.  When  pancakes  brown,  turn 
with  a  pancake  tximer  and  brown  on  other  side.  Serve  hot 
with  sugar  or  apple  sauce. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  33 

Squash  Pancakes 

Wash  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds,  and  then  grate  the  squash. 
To  one  grated  squash  weighing  about  Yi  pound,  add  Yz  cup 
water,  J/2  cup  flour,  one  egg,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  drop  on  a  well  greased  skillet  with  a  spoon.  This  will 
make  between  fifteen  and  twenty  medium  sised  pancakes. 
Sprinkle  these  pancakes  with  a  little  sugar  before  serving. 

Rice  Waffles 

4  eggs  lJ4  pints  of  flour 

1  teacup  boiled  rice  1  tablespoon  butter 

lJ4  pints  of  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  together  until  very  light.  Stir  in 
a  teacup  of  boiled  rice,  then  the  milk;  sift  the  flour  and  add 
gradually  the  butter  (melted)  and  the  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  greased  waffle  iron. 


WaflFles 

1  cup  sour  crcanS  Y/l  cup  butter 

14  cup  flour  4  eggs 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter,  add  yolks  of  eggs  one  by  one,  then  slowly 
the  flour  and  the  sour  cream.   Stir  well  and  when  well  mixed, 
fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  a  little  vanilla. 
Heat  and  grease  the  wafile  iron. 

Spoon  off  batter  into  center  of  each  section  of  the  waffle  iron, 
allow  to  run,  bake  first  on  one  side,  turn  iron  and  bake  on 
other  side.  Remove  drippings  and  crumbs  after  each  waffle 
is  made. 

Serve  hot  with  syrup. 

Aluminum  waffle  irons  do  not  require  greasing. 


34  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

No.  2 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

V/z  cups  flour  1/3  cup  butter 

V/z  teaspoons  baking  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

powder 
Separate  and  beat  the  eggs.  Melt  the  butter.  Sift  flour  and  salt 
with  baking  powder.    Add  to  egg  yolks.    Fold  in  the  beaten 
white  and  bake  in  a  greased  waffle  iron. 

To  Make  Syrup  from  Maple  Sugar 

Break  up  the  maple  sugar,  place  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with 
boiling  water.  Heat  over  flame,  stir  only  until  the  sugar  has 
entirely  dissolved,  then  boil  until  a  clear  amber  color  and  cool 
for  use  on  griddle  cakes  and  waffles. 

English  Muffins 

4  cups  flour  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  hot  milk 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  Uttle  warm  milk. 

Cool  milk  and  when  lukewarm,  add  butter  and  salt.  Mix  with 

yeast  paste.    Mix  the  flour  with  this  liquid  and  let  stand  for 

several  hours  in  a  warm  place. 

Grease  a  dozen  muffin  rings.    Fill  the  rings  half  full  of  the 

batter.    As  dough  starts  to  rise  place  muffins  with  rings  on 

heated,  greased  griddle.   Let  bake  slowly. 

When  golden  brown,  turn  with  a  pancake  turner  and  bake 

slowly  on  other  side  until  done.   Do  not  bake  too  well.   When 

cool,  split  in  two,  toast  on  the  cut  side,  butter  generously  and 

serve  with  marmalade  or  honey  or  maple  syrup. 

Italian  Bread  Sticks 

4  cups  flour  ]A  cup  butter 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  white  of  egg 

1  cup  hot  milk 

Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  milk. 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  the  milk;  cool  and  add  flour, 

beaten  white  of  egg  and  dissolved  yeast. 

Knead  well,  stand  in  warm  place  and  allow  to  rise.   Roll  with 

the  flat  of  the  hand  into  long  thin  sticks.    Place  in  a  floured 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  35 

pan  quite  a  distance  apart  and  just  before  baking,  brush  with 
beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Let  stand  to  rise,  then  bake  until  very 
crisp  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees  F.), 

Tea  Biscuits 

1  ounce  compressed  yeast  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  milk  Yz  cup  butter 

2  eggs  lYi  teaspoons  salt 
XYl  cups  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  a  little  lukewarm  milk. 

Add  flour  to  milk  and  pour  over  yeast  paste.    Beat  well. 

Allow  to  stand  in  a  warm  place.  Add  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  salt 

and  butter.    More  flour  may  have  to  be  added  in  order  to 

knead  the  dough.    Knead  well  and  allow  to  stand  and  rise. 

Shape  into  narrow  rolb  and  line  up  close  together  in  floured 

pan. 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Rice  Cakes 

2  cups  hot  boiled  licc  2  cups  floxir 

2  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  and  add  to 
the  milk;  add  the  dry  ingredients  and  beat  well.   Fold  in  the 
stiff  whites  and  prepare  as  griddle  cakes. 
Serve  hot  with  butter,  sugar  or  jelly. 

£)rop  Doughnuts 

Beat  three  eggs  until  light,  gradually  add  one  cup  sugar,  then 
one  cup  boiled  and  cooled  milk,  one  teaspoon  vanilla- 
Fold  in  the  following  dry  ingredients:   (sifted  four  times). 

3  cups  flour 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Drop  by  spoonful  in  hot  fat  and  fry  till  brown.  Sift  powdered 
sugar  over  them. 


36  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

CANDY 

Fudge 

Grate  four  sqxiares  chocolate,  add  to  one  pound  powdered 
sugar,  with  one  tablespoon  butter  and  a  small  can  of  evaporated 
milk.  Bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  to  prevent  sticking.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the 
contents  of  a  small  can  (five  ounces)  marshmallow  whip — 
beating  until  creamy.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  mark  in 
squares  when  cooL 

Cream  Caramels 

2  cups  sugar  2  cups  evaporated  milk 

2  cups  com  syrup  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yl  cup  butter  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Put  sugar,  syrup,  salt  and  butter  into  sauce  pan  and  place  on 
fire.  Stir  till  it  boils  to  a  clear  thick  consistency;  stir  in  gradu' 
ally  so  as  not  to  stop  boiling  the  evaporated  milk.  Stir  con' 
stantly,  cook  to  the  firm  ball  stage.  Add  vanilla  and  pour  into 
buttered  pans.  When  cold,  cut  and  wrap  in  waxed  paper. 
Makes  two  pounds, 

Nut  Caramels 

Mix  together — 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  ounce  of  bitter  chocolate 

1  cup  white  syrup  (small  pieces) 

Yl  pint  sweet  cream  1  tablespoon  butter 

Pinch  of  salt 

Boil  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly,  as  chocolate 
bums  quickly;  do  not  beat,  however,  as  this  will  make  it  granu' 
lar.  Add  gradually  another  half  pint  of  cream,  until  a  few 
drops  of  the  syrup  in  cold  water  form  a  rather  firm  ball,  that 
is,  just  a  little  firmer  than  the  soft-ball  stage.   Add  vanilla  and 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  37 

half  a  cupful  of  nut  meats  before  removing  from  fire.  Pour 
into  small  buttered  tin  so  that  layer  will  be  three-quarters  of 
an  inch  thick. 

It  is  best  not  to  cut  this  -candy  until  twelve  hours  after  cooking. 
Cut  in  squares  and  wrap  in  wax  paper. 


Nut  Creams        j   ...^i    :     ;;i 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  broken  nut  meats 

1  cup  rich  cream  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  cream  over  slow  fire,  stirring  frequently.  Re' 
move  from  fire  and  place  pan  in  cold  water.  When  cool  add 
nut  meats  and  beat  imtil  creamy.  Turn  into  an  oiled  pan  and 
cut  in  squares. 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 

2  cups  sugar  3  tablespoons  peanut  butter 
1  tablespoon  cocoa  1  rounded  teaspoon  butter 

3  tablespoons  white  syrup  2/3  cup  milk 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa;  add  syrup  and  milk.  Boil  till  it  forms  a 
soft  ball  in  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  let  cool  for  about  three 
minutes.  Add  butter  and  peanut  butter  and  beat  till  thick. 
Pour  in  greased  pans  to  cool  and  cut  in  squares. 


Bologna  Candy  ftriaon^H 

2  cups  ™gar         .  !/2  cup  cocoanfl^;;;^  ^'^^  \ 

1  cup  milk  Yz  cup  nuts         „.         ' 

1  package  dates  ....  .^^'^J-"'^ 

Boil  sugar  and  milk  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water. 
Now  add  dates  (which  have  been  stoned  and  halved).  Con' 
tinue  cooking  until  it  leaves  pan  behind  spoon  while  being 
stirred.  Stir  in  nuts  and  cocoanut.  Let  cool.  Pour  out  on  cloth 
that  has  been  wrung  out  of  cold  water,  and  roll  up  in  the 
form  of  a  bologna  sausage.  This  is  where  it  gets  the  name. 


38  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Peanut  Bread 

Yl  cup  sugar  1  cup  nuts  or  %  cup  pea' 

1  egg  (beaten)  nut  butter 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2J4  cups  flour 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder 

Cream  sugar,  egg  and  peanuts  or  peanut  butter,  then  add  milk 
and  flour  alternatively.  Bake  about  40  minutes.  This  is  ex' 
cellent  bread  for  the  children's  luncheon. 


Nut  Candy 

Use  walnuts,  peanuts,  pecans  or  a  mixture  of  nuts.  After 
removal  from  shells,  place  on  bottom  of  pans,  previously 
greased,  to  the  depth  of  about  half  an  inch. 
Boil  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  pint  of  water,  and 
one  gill  of' good  molasses  until  a  portion  of  the  mass  hardens 
when  cooled.  Po\ir  the  hot  syrup  on  the  meats  and  allow  to 
remain  until  bard. 


Penocha 

1  cup  brown  sugar  \  tablespoon  vanilk 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  cup  walnut  meats 

Yl  cup  milk  Speck  of  salt 
1  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  nuts,  in  a  saucepan  until 
a  drop  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the 
flame,  add  the  nuts  and  heat  the  mixture  until  thick  and 
creamy.  Poxir  into  greased  pan  and  allow  to  harden.  Break 
into  pieces. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  39 

Peanut  Butter  Candy 

2  cups  sugar  J4  cup  milk 

Cook  seven  minutes  from  time  it  begins  to  boil.  Remove  from 
fire.  Add  two  heaping  tablespoons  peanut  butter.  Beat  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  on  buttered  platter,  cool,  and  cut 
in  squares. 

Sea  Foam 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  walnuts,  broken  up 

J/2  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yq  cup  white  com  syrup  Pinch  salt 
2  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  corn  syrup  until  it  forms  ball  in 
cold  water.  Have  beaten  egg  whites  and  salt  ready  in  large 
mixing  bowl;  slowly  pour  on  boiling  mixture,  beating  rapidly. 
Continue  beating  until  mixture  begins  to  granulate  around 
sides  of  bowl.  Add  vanilla,  then  nuts.  Turn  out  on  buttered 
dinner  plate  and  spread  in  circular  motions  with  back  of  spoon, 
leaving  it  rough  and  foamy.  Place  in  ice  box  for  20  to  30 
minutes  before  serving, 


40  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

CHEESE  DISHES 

Cheese  is  a  cheap  substitute  for  meat  in  the  diet.   It  contains 

protein  and  fat  and  also  the  calcium  of  the  milk  from  which 

it  is  made. 

It  is  also  valuable  as  a  change  from  meat  because  of  its  sharp 

flavoring.  For  this  reason  it  is  used  largely  with  such  relatively 

tasteless  foods  as  rice,  spaghetti  and  bread. 

Cheese  is  very  highly  concentrated  and  very  tightly  bound; 

therefore,  do  not  use  too  ofteaa  or  in  too  great  quantity. 


Cheese  Toast 

Yz  cake  cream  cheese  1  tablespoon  Worcester' 

1  snappy  cheese  shire  sauce 

Ya  teaspoon  paprika  12  sHces  bacon 

J4  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

6  shces  of  bread 
Cream  the  two  kinds  of  cheese  together  and  add  the  seasoning. 
Beat  the  eggs  lightly  and  mix  with  the  cheese.  Cut  the  bread 
thick  and  trim  the  edges  a  very  little.  Spread  the  cheese 
mixture  thick  on  the  bread  and  lay  on  each  piece,  two  slices 
of  raw  bacon. 

Brown  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  bacon  is  crisp, 


Cheese  Souffle 

3  tablespoons  butter  4  eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Yl  cup  milk  Paprika 

Yi  cup  grated  cheese 

Heat  the  flour  and  butter  in  a  double  boiler.   Stir  in  the  milk, 

cheese  and  seasoning.    Cook  slowly  to  a  creamy  smooth  con- 

sistency. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  41 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  the  mixture.    Cool,  then 

add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

Turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 

for  fortyfive  minutes. 

Serve  at  once  so  that  the  souffle  will  not  fall. 


Monkey 

1  cup  milk  Yl  cup  cheese,  in  pieces 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  milk.    Melt  the  butter  in  a  double 
boiler  and  then  melt  the  cheese  into  it.  Add  the  soaked  bread 
crumbs,  the  beaten  egg  and  the  seasoning. 
Cook  through  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve  on  crisp  crackers 
or  toast. 


Cheese  Fondue 


1  cup  cheese  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  eggs  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  crumbs  Mustard  and  pepper 

1  cup  milk 

Grate  the  cheese  and  mix  with  the  beaten  egg.    Add  the 

crumbs,  milk  and  season. 

Add  butter  melted. 

Turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 

for  fifteen  minutes.   Serve  immediately.  Very  good  with  salad. 


Italian  Gnocchi 

Ya  cup  butter  2  eggs 

Y'^  cup  flour  1  cup  grated  cheese 

Ya  cup  cornstarch  Ya  teaspoon  salt 
2  cups  milk 


42  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  flour,  cornstarch  and  salt.  Stir  in 
the  milk  and  boil  all  together  for  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
tinually  to  keep  smooth. 

Add  the  beaten  egg,  the  salt  and  the  grated  cheese.    Cook 
for  a  minute  and  turn  into  a  low  greased  pan  to  cool. 
Cut  into  small  rounds  with  a  cookie  cutter,  about  one  and  one- 
half  inches  across.  Arrange  in  a  flat  glass  baking  dish;  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Gnocchi 

In  a  double  boiler,  boil  1  cup  of  farina,  in  a  quart  of  rich  milk, 

about  2  hours.   Turn  out  in  a  bread  pan  mould,  and  let  stand 

till  cold  and  firm.   Cut  in  thin  shces. 

Put  a  layer  of  this  farina  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  a 

thick  layer  of  grated  cheese;  add  a  second  and  third  layer  of 

farina  and  cheese  and  cover  the  top  layer  with  plenty  of  grated 

cheese,  and  bake  till  the  cheese  melts  and  the  top  gets  nice  and 

brown. 

The  amount  of  cheese  required  is  1  pound  of  Swiss  and  Yz 

pound  of  yellow  American  cheese. 

Com  and  Cheese  Souffle 

Yz  green  pepper  chopped  1  cup  chopped  fresh  com 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  tablespoon  flour  3  eggs 

\Yi  cups  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Simmer  the  chopped  peppers  and  butter  in  a  saucepan.  When 

peppers  are  tender,  add  the  flour  mixed  with  the  milk.    Add 

the  com,  cheese  and  seasoning,  cooking  all  for  ten  minutes. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add,  heat  a  minute  longer  and 

remove  from  the  flame.    Beat  the  whitess  tiff  and  add  to  the 

mixture.   Set  a  baking  pan  into  water  in  the  oven,  turn  in  the 

mixture  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  at  350  degrees  F. 

Welsh  Rarebit 

1  pound  cheese  Speck  pepper 

Y^  teaspoon  salt  yz  cup  water 

Ya  teaspoon  paprika  1  teaspoon     Worcestershire 

Ya  teaspoon  dry  mustard  Sauce 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  43 

Use  fresh  cheese  and  cut  into  small  pieces.    Melt  the  cheese 

slowly  in  a  double  boiler.    Do  not  have  the  water  in  the 

boiler  boil  but  merely  simmer.  When  cheese  is  melted  add  the 

seasoning  and  stir  in  the  cold  water  and  the  Worcestershire 

Sauce. 

Cook  until  smooth.    Spread  over  crisped  crackers  or  better, 

over  crisp  toast. 


Combinatioti  Sandwich 

Creamed  roquefort  cheese  White  bread 

White  meat  of  chicken 

Trim  the  crust  from  the  buttered  bread.   Place  a  lettuce  leaf 

on  one  slice  and  lay  sliced  white  meat  of  chicken  on  it. 

Cream  the  roquefort  cheese  with  a  tablespoon  butter,  paprika 

and  a  dash  of  Worcestershire  Sauce.   Spread  this  paste  on  the 

other  slice  of  bread.   Close  together  as  a  sandwidi  and  toast 

each  side. 

Serve  while  the  toast  is  still  hot 


Club  Sandwich 

Directions  given  are  for  each  sandwich. 

3  slices  hot  buttered  toast 

3  leaves  crisp  lettuce 

2  slices  white  meat  of  chicken 

2  slices  tomato 

2  strips  crisp  bacon 

1  tablespoon  thick  mayonnaise  to  which  add  a  dash  of  dry 

mustard. 
Put  a  lettuce  leaf,  a  sUce  of  chicken  and  a  slice  of  tomato  on 
one  piece  of  toast.  Spread  mayonnaise  on  the  tomato.  Cover 
with  another  slice  of  toast.  Lay  on  top  of  it,  one  leaf  of  lettuce, 
the  bacon,  chicken  and  tomato.  Spread  with  mayonnaise  and 
cover  with  the  third  piece  of  toast. 

Hold  together  with  toothpicks,  if  necessary.  Serve  while  toast 
is  hot  and  garnish  with  radishes,  ripe  oUve  and  a  sweet  pickle. 


DESSERTS 

Cakes  and  Cookies 

Plain  Cake 

1/3  cup  butter  or  shorten'  1%  teaspoons  baking 

ing  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  milk 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Cream  the  butter  and  the  sugar.    Add  the  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  alternating  with 
the  milk.    Add  the  vanilla  and  bake  in   layers  for  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  (375  degrees  F.). 

Fill  and  frost  as  desired.  This  recipe  may  be  modified  by  add' 
ing  nuts,  cocoanut,  spices,  etc.,  and  by  frosting  in  an  attrac 
tive  way. 

Plain  Pound  Cake 

1  pound  butter  10  eggs 

1  pound  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  pound  flour  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  the  sugar  thoroughly  together.    Add 

the  well'beaten  eggs.    Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and 

add  with  the  milk.    Pour  into  buttered  bread  pan  and  bake 

in  a  slow  oven  (320  degrees  F.)  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 

Fruit-Nut  Loaf  Cake 

Add  Ya  cup  chopped  blanched  almonds,  J4  cup  dried  cur' 
rants,  Y^  cup  chopped  candied  citron  to  the  recipe  for  Pound 

44 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  45 

Cake.  Trim  the  top  \with  whole  blanched  almonds  arranged 
in  a  pattern  and  bake  with  a  paper  cover  for  the  last  half  hour 
of  the  baking. 


Cocoanut  Cake 


cup  sugar 


2  cups  flour  1 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 
Yl  cup  butter                                 2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  slightly  beaten  eggs.  Stir  thor' 
oughly.  Add  milk  and  beat  together.  Add  sifted  flour  and 
baking  powder  mixed.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  twentyfive  to  thirty  minutes. 

Icing 

2  cups  confectioners'  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 
Yl  cup  cream  or  milk 

Beat  together,  add  few  drops  vanilla  extract.  Spread  icing  on 
cake  and  sprinkle  cocoanut  on  top. 

Quick  CoflFee  Cake 

lYi  cups  sifted  flour  6  teaspoons  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  teaspoons  shortening 

Yl  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

Ya  teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg  Yl  cup  milk  or  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  shortening,  add  unbeaten  egg  and 

milk  and  stir  to  a  smooth  dough.   Turn  in  a  shallow  pan  and 

cover  with  top  mixture. 

Mixture  to  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  the  dough  before 

baking: 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

2  tablespoo.ns  flour  Ya  teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg 

With  a  fork  mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly,  scatter  over  top 
of  coflFee  cake  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  over  400  degrees 
twentyfive  minutes. 


46  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

White  Cake 

Yl  cup  butter  3  cups  pastry  flour 

1%  cups  granulated  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk  6  egg  whites 

J4  cup  hot  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yz  teaspoon  almond  flavor' 

ing 
Cream  the  butter,  adding  the  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  milk. 
Cream  very  well.    Sift  the  floxir  and  baking  powder  together 
several  times  for  Hghtness.    Pour  the  hot  water  on  the  milfc 
and  add  the  flour  and  milk  mixture  to  the  creamed  butter,  beat' 
ing  constantly.  Add  the  almond  and  vanilla  flavors. 
Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  fold  into  the  batter. 
Line  two  deep  square  pans  with  waxed  paper  and  pour  in  the 
batter.   Start  in  a  low  oven  and  when  the  cake  has  risen,  in' 
crease  the  heat  and  bake  for  about  threc'quarter  hour  longer 
until  the  cake  is  done. 

Frost  and  fill  with  caramel,  white  or  fudge  frosting.   Or  fill 
with  jelly  and  frost  with  thin  white  idng. 

Orange  Layer  Cake 

lJ/2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yl  cup  butter  or  shortening  3  cups  pastry  flour 

2  eggs  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  Ya  teaspoon  soda 

orange  1  cup  water 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar;  add  the  beaten  eggs.  Add 
one  teaspoon  grated  rind  of  orange. 

Add  to  the  foregoing,  the  sifted  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  cup  of  boiling  water  and  alternating 
with  the  orange  juice  add  to  the  mixture.  Stir  until  creamy. 
Bake  in  greased  layer  pans  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Top  and  Filling  for  Cake 

Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  two  cups  confection' 
ers'  sugar.  Add  the  juice  of  two  large  oranges  and  the  grated 
peel  of  one.  Stir  together  well  and  spread  thick  over  top  and 
layers. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 


47 


Chocolate  Fudge  Cake 

1  cup  butter  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  Y\  teaspoon  salt 
4  eggs  1  cup  milk 

3  cups  flour  4  squares  chocolate 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.   Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the 
yolks  well  and  the  whites  stiff.    Add  the  yolks  to  the  butter 
and  sugar.    Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add 
alternating  with  the  milk. 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  add.    Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  and 
bake  in  three  layers  m.  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.). 
Frost  with  a  thick  fudge  frosting.  This  makes  a  very  rich  cake. 


Y^  cup  shortening 
Yx  cup  sour  milk 
2  cups  pastry  flour 
J4  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Devils  Food  Nut  Cake 

2  squares  bitter  chocolate 
2  cups  brown  sugar 
Yl  cup  water 
1  egg  yolk 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  whole  eggs 

Cook  the  chocolate,  onchalf  cup  brown  sugar,  cold  water, 
and  the  egg  yolk  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  iintil 
the  mixture  thickens.  Add  the  nuts  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 
Cream  the  shortening  and  the  remaining  one  and  onchalf 
cups  sugar;  add  the  well  beaten  eggs. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  soda  and  add  to  the  sugar  mixture,  alter-* 
nating  with  the  sour  milk. 

Stir  together  well  and  add  vanilla.  Last  add  the  chocolate  nut 
mixture  and  pour  into  a  greased  and  floured  cake  pan.  Bake 
for  three'quarters  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.). 


Lady  Baltimore  Cake 

3  cups  cake  flour 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Whites  of  three  eggs 
y^  teaspoon  salt 


Yl  cup  butter 
Yl  cup  milk 
Yl  cup  water 
\Yi  cups  sugar 


48  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Sift  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour  three  times.  Cream  butter 
and  gradually  add  sugar  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  the 
flour  and  milk  alternately,  stirring  until  smooth.  Stir  in  one 
teaspoon  vanilla  and  one'quarter  teaspoon  almond  flavoring. 
Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  fold  in. 
Bake  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.). 

Filling  and  Frasting 

Make  a  syrup  of  two  cups  sugar  and  three'quarters  cup  water; 

cook  to  the  soft  ball  stage.    Pour  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs 

beaten  stiff;  beat  until  the  mixtiire  stands.    Retain  one-third 

for  cake  icing. 

Grind  oncquarter  pound  figs  or  dates  with  one-half  pound 

raisins  and  onchalf  pound  nut  meats.   Add  the  ground  fruits 

and  nuts  to  remaining  two-thirds  of  mixture. 

Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake.   Frost  entire  cake 

with  plain  icing. 

Delicate  Cake 

Yl  cup  butter  Yi  cup  milk 

\Yl  cups  sugar  4  egg  whites 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.    Cream  the  shortening  and 

sugar  and  add  flour  and  milk  alternately.    Fold  in  the  well 

beaten  egg  whites  and  bake  in  a  thin  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven 

25  minutes. 

Caramel  Pineapple  Cake  (Skillet  Cake) 

Put  three  tablespoonsful  of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  brown 
sugar  in  an  iron  frying  pan.  Let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes. 
Then  add  sliced  canned  pineapple  just  to  fit  pan.  A  medium 
pan  requires  about  seven  shces  around  and  one  in  the  middle. 
Then  make  a  batter  of  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and  a  half  cups 
flour. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  49 

Poxir  this  batter  over  the  pineapple;  put  frying  pan  into  oven, 
leaving  it  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes;  reduce  heat  and  bake 
about  fifty  minutes.  Turn  out  of  the  pan  on  a  large  plate. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream, 


Eggless  Spice  Cake 

3  cups  pastry  flour  T  teaspoon  mace 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yi  cup  liquid  fat 

Yx  teaspoon  salt  lJ4  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yz  teaspoon  allspice 

Sift  together  all  dry  ingredients.    Add  liquid  fat  with  water 

and  vanilla  and  stir  until  well  mixed.    Bake  in  layers  in  a 

moderately  hot  oven  20  minutes;  in  a  loaf  in  a  moderate  oven 

45  minutes. 


Fig  Cake 

1  cup  sugar  Yl  pound  figs 
Yi  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  1  cup  of  boiling  water 
1  cup  raisins  2  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs.  Put  figs  and  raisins  through 
food  chopper  and  add  to  boiling  water;  add  soda;  add  pinch 
of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Add  flour.  Bake  in  two  layers  in 
moderate  oven. 


Hasty  Cake 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 
\Yi  cups  flour  Milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla 
Ya  teaspoon  salt 

J4   cup  melted  butter  or 
shortening 


50  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together.  Put  butter 
in  measuring  cup,  add  the  eggs  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Add 
liquid  to  the  dry  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  an 
oblong  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400"  Fahrenheit)  20  min' 
utcs.  Cool  and  cover  with  any  quick  frosting. 

Walnut  Torte 

7  eggs  Yz  lb.  groxind  walnut  meats 

7  tablespoonfuls  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  egg  yolks  till  light.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  ground  walnuts. 
Stir.  Beat  egg  whites  till  stiff  and  add  to  mixture.  Mix  all 
together  and  bake  in  slow  oven  50  minutes.  When  cold  serve 
with  whipped  cream.   This  recipe  will  serve  6  persons. 

Eggiess  Chocolate  Cake 

2  squares  chocolate  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  lJ/2  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  melted  short'  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

ening  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  half  cup  of  milk.  Grate  the  chocolate 
and  melt  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Mix  together  the  sugar 
and  shortening,  add  vanilla,  salt,  the  soda  dissolved  in  the 
milk,  and  the  flour;  beat  thoroughly.  Then  beat  in  the  milk, 
still  hot,  in  which  the  chocolate  has  been  melted.  Bake  in  a 
loaf  about  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  will 
keep  moist  for  several  days. 

Apple-Sauce  Torte 

4  eggs  2  cups  apple'sauce  (un' 

1  can  evaporated  milk  sweetened) 

Juice  of  1  lemon  Yz  cup  melted  butter 

Mix  yolks  of  eggs,  applc'sauce,  lemon  juice  and  milk  together; 

add  stiffly  beaten  whites.    Line  sides  and  bottom  of  torte  pan 

with  one  package  of  ground  graham  crackers,   mixed  with 

scant  cup  melted  butter.   Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Reserve  some  of  the  graham  cracker  mixture  to  sprinkle  on 

top  of  cake.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 
Scotch  Chocolate  Cake 


51 


Yl  cup  butter  or  shortening 
lYi  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

1  square  chocolate  dissolved 
in  Yl  cup  of  boiling  water 
Bake  in  sheet  or  two  layers  about  thirty  minutes, 


Yl  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda,  mixed  with 

2  cups  of  flour 
1  teaspoon  vanilta 


Pinch  soda 

2  eggs 

%  cup  sour  milk 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 


Graham  Cracker  Cake 

Yl  pound  graham  crackers 

crush  to  powder  form 
Yl  cup  butter 
Yl  cup  sugar 
\Yi  teaspoons  baking  pow 

der 

Cream  butter,  add  crushed  crackers,  baking  pcTvder  and  soda, 
sugar;  add  egg  yolks,  stir;  add  sour  milk.  Stir  constant^; 
add  beaten  egg  whites,  and  vanilla.  Pour  in  buttered  cake 
tin;  place  in  oven;  bake. 


1  teaspoon  mace 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

Yl  cup  melted  shortening 

Ij/^  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Eggless  Spice  Cake 

3  cups  pastry  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yl  teaspoon  allspice 

Sift  together  all  dry  ingredients.  Add  shortening  with  water 
and  vanilla  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Bake  in  layers  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  (375  degrees)  20  minutes;  in  a  loaf  in 
a  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  45  minutes.  When  cool  spread 
with  maple  icing: 

1  tablespoon  hot  coffee  Few  drops  of  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  maple  syrup  Confectioners  sugar 

Mix  together  coffee,  syrup  and  vanilla  and  beat  in  confection- 
ers sugar  until  stiff  enough  to  spread. 


n  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Caramel  Cake 

Yz  cupful  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

f4  cupful  sugar  1  cup  milk 

4  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Second  ^  cupful  sugar  4  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  4  cups  flour 

Cream  shortening  with  ^  cup  sugar.  Beat  egg  yolks  until 
light  and  add  second  %  cup  sugar,  beating  well.  Add  the  egg 
and  sugar  mixture  to  that  of  the  shortening  and  sugar,  mixing 
well.  Sift  the  flour,  add  the  baking  powder  and  salt  and  sift 
three  times.  Add  this  flour  mixture  and  the  milk  alternately 
to  the  first  mixture.  Then  add  vanilla  extract.  Fold  in  the  egg 
whites  and  bake  in  two  layer  cake  pans  in  a  moderate  oven, 
350°  F.  Put  the  layers  together  and  cover  cake  with  a  caramel 
frosting. 


1-2-3-4  Cake 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  sour  cream 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

3  cups  flour  Spices 

4  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  and  stir  until  creamy.  Add 
the  sour  cream  and  soda  dissolved  in  cream  and  lastly  the 
flour  containing  the  spices. 

Malted  Milk  Cake 

Cream  one'half  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar  gradually.  Beat 
in  one  egg;  then  add  three  heaping  teaspoons  chocolate  malted 
milk,  one'half  teaspoon  vanilla,  onc'fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add 
one  teaspoon  soda  to  one  cup  sour  milk  and  then  add  alter- 
nately  with  two  cups  sifted  flour  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake 
in  buttered  layer'cake  pans.  Put  together  and  cover  with 
white  icing. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  53 

Banana  Cream  Cake 

%  cup  shortening  "4  tablespoons  of  sour  milK 

V/2  cups  sugar  2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  mashed  bananas  Yz  cup  chopped  wahiuts 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  gradually  and  cream  again;  add 
unbeaten  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly  after  each 
addition.  Then  add  mashed  bananas  with  sour  milk;  stir  well. 
Fold  in  sifted  dry  ingredients  and  bake  in  layers  in  hot  oven, 
375  degrees  F.,  20  to  25  minutes.  Makes  2  layers. 


Poppyseed  Cake 

1  cup  poppyseed  2  cups  flour 

V/z  cups  mUk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

V/z  cups  sugar  4  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 

Yz  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Grind  poppyseed.  Heat  Yz  of  the  milk;  pour  over  poppyseed 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the 
poppyseed  mixture.  Add  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed  alter- 
nately  with  milk.  Add  the  beaten  whites  and  flavor.  Turn  in 
a  well  greased  spring,  form  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  forty- 
five  minutes. 


Ginger  Cake 

Yz  cup  sugar  f  scant  teaspoon  soda 

Yz  cup  dark  molasses  1  scant  teaspoon  ginger 

Lard,  size  of  an  egg  1  large  cup  of  flour 

1  egg  %  cup  boding  water 
Y&  teaspoon  salt 

Add  melted  lard  to  sugar,  then  molasses  and  soda  and  beaten 
egg.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  ginger  and  add  the  boiling  water  last. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  25  or  30  minutes.  (The  mixture 
before  baking  is  very  thin.) 


54  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Pound  Cake 

1  cup  butter  lJ4  cups  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  creaming  mixture  well. 

Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  then  the  whitea  to  which  has  been 

added  1  level  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  then  add  Yi  cup  of  milk; 

then  lYi  cups  pastry  flour;  sift  it  three  times  with  Yi  level 

teaspoon  baking  soda. 

1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  one  hour. 


Old  Fashioned  Raisin  Cake     • 

Yl  cup  butter  1  cup  raisins 

1  heaping  cup  sugar  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla 
%  cup  sour  cream  or  milk  J4  teaspoon  mace 

2  eggs  J4  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  cups  flour  Y^  teaspoon  ginger 

2  level  teaspoons  baking         J4  teaspoon  soda  in  milk 
powder 

Bake  in  square  pan,  in  moderate  oven,  one  hour. 


Old  Fashioned  Hickorynut  Cake 

Cream  together  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter  and  two 
cupfuls  of  light  "C"  sugar;  add  to  this  mixture  one  cupful  of 
cold  water,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  teaspoon' 
ful  each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  mace,  and  three  cupfuls  of 
flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and  onchalf  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Now  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  folding  them  in  very  carefully. 
Take  two  cupfuls  of  blanched  hickorynut  meats,  chop  them 
very  fine,  roll  them  in  flour,  and  add  gradually  to  the  mixture, 
stirring  well  all  the  time.  Pour  into  a  loaf  cake  tin,  cover 
with  browned  flour  for  the  first  half  hour  it  is  in  the  oven, 
or  better  still,  with  a  piece  of  oiled  paper — this  merely  to  pre 
vent  its  becoming  too  brown,  before  well  done.   Let  bake  for 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  55 

an  hour.  When  cool  turn  out  of  the  tin,  cover  with  boiled 
icing,  and  decorate  with  whole  nut  kernels. 
Would  advise  the  using  of  oiled  paper,  rather  than  the  flour, 
for  preventing  its  becoming  brown  too  soon.  There  is  danger 
of  the  flour  sinking  into  the  batter  and  spoiling  the  deUcacy 
of  the  cake. 

Date  and  Walnut  Torte 

6  eggs  Yi  pound  dates  (cut  fine) 

Yl  pound  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  walnuts  (chopped)  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  very  Ught  and  add  sugar,  nuts  and  dates.  Lastly  add 
the  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven, 
one  hour.   Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Fudge  Cake 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  1  cup  of  pecan  nuts   (cut 

4  eggs  fine) 

3  squares  of  Baker's  choco'  2  cups  of  flour 
late 

Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  sheet  pan  on  wax  paper.  Cut 
in  squares  while  hot,  pieces  to  be  about  two  inches  square 
and  one  and  one'half  inches  thick. 

Dorbas  Torte 

5  eggs  5  tablespoons  flour 

4  tablespoons  powdered  Pinch  of  salt 
sugar 

Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  for  half  an  hour,  using  a  wood 
spoon.  Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add.  Then  the  flour  and  salt 
sifted  together. 
Mix  all  thoroughly. 

Grease  the  outside  bottom  of  a  cake  tin  and  bake  the  dough 
in  very  thin  layers,  as  many  layers  as  possible,  for  ten  minutes 
or  less  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  length  of  time  for  baking 
depends  on  the  thickness  of  the  layer. 


56  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cream  one  and  one-half  pounds  unsalted  butter  with  one  and 
one'half  cups  confectioners  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs  and  one  quarter  pound  grated  sweet  chocolate.  Stir 
into  a  smooth  paste.  Spread  between  the  thin  layers  until  it 
is  all  used. 

Cover  with  a  glaze  made  by  cooking  one  cup  brown  sugar 
with  one-quarter  cup  boiling  water  until  it  forms  a  brittle 
string  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Spread  over  the  top  and 
sides  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water. 

Keep  the  torte  cold  until  ready  to  serve. 


Spice  Cake 

Yz  cup  butter  Yz  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  chopped  can' 

2  eggs  died  citron 

lYi  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  grated  lemon 

Y^  teaspoon  salt  rind 

Yl  teaspoon  ginger  Yl  cup  raisins 

J4  teaspoon  groimd  nut'  Yl  cup  currants 

meg  %  cup  milk 

Ya  teaspoon  ground  cloves  Yl  teaspoon  soda 

.Cream  the  sugar  with  the  butter.  Add  the  beaten  eggs.  Sift 
a  little  flour  over  the  fruit  and  sift  the  rest  with  the  spices 
and  salt.  Add  the  spices  and  salt  and  flour  to  the  egg'sugar 
mixture  and  stir  well  together. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  milk.    Add  to  the  mixture  and 
then  add  the  floured  fruit  alternating  with  the  milk. 
Stir  all  until  smooth  and  bake  in  a  deep  cake  pan  for  one 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Sponge  Cake 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  14  cup  water 

\Yi  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  57 

Sift  the  sugar.  Then  sift  the  baking  powder  with  one-half 
cup  flour. 

Sift  the  sugar  and  add  gradually  to  the  well  beaten  yolks, 
beating  constantly.  Add  the  flavoring,  the  water  and  one 
cup  of  the  flour. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  one-half  cup  flour  and  add  to 
the  batter.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  a 
special  sponge  cake  pan,  ungreased,  and  bake  for  thirty  to 
forty  five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

When  baked,  invert  the  pan  and  cool.  Remove  from  the  pan 
and  serve  top  side  down,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar. 

Sunshine  Cake 

V/z  cups  sugar  Yz  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Yz  cup  water  1  cup  flour 

6  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  sugar  in  the  water  in  a  sauce  pan  and  boil  until  it 

threads  off  the  end  of  the  spoon. 

Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  the  yolks  frothy. 

Pour  the  sugar  syrup  very  slowly  into  the  stiff  whites  and  beat 

until  cool.    Then  add  the  frothy  yolks. 

Sift  the   cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour  and  fold  into  the 

sugar'Cgg  mixture.    Do  not  stir  or  beat  the  mixture  at  this 

stage. 

Turn  into  an  ungreased  sunshine  cake  tin  with  a  tube  in  the 

center  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty  five  minutes  to 

fifty-five  minutes. 

When  done,  invert  the  pan  and  allow  to  cool.    Remove  the 

cake  and  serve. 

Cup  Cakes 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

]/i  cup  shortening  1  egg 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

]/4  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  flour 

Sift  and  mix  the  dry  ingredients. 

Melt  the  shortening,  add  the  milk,  beaten  egg  and  vanilla. 

Mix  the  dry  and  wet  ingredients  and  stir  well.   Bake  in  muffin 

tins  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


58  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  Y^  cup  shortening 
Yl  teaspoon  salt                             2/3  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  sift  twice,  cut  in  shortening  and  add 
milk  gradually.  Toss  on  floured  board.  Pat,  roll  out  and 
bake  in  well'greased  pan  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven  about  450  degrees  F.  Cap,  wash  and  sweeten  berries  to 
taste.  Crush  berries  slightly  and  put  between  and  on  top  of 
shortcake.    Cover  with  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Upside  Down  Cake 

Ya  pound  butter  1  medium  can  pineapple 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

Melt  butter  slightly  in  heavy  frying  pan.    Spread  over  this 

the  brown  sugar  and  then  lay  on  pineapple. 

(Batter) 

3  eggs  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

5  tablespoons  pineapple 
juice 

Beat  egg  yolks,  add  sugar,  pineapple  juice,  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  over  first 
mixture  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  When  done  place  cake 
plate  on  top  of  pan  and  reverse.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
(Pan  should  be  eleven  inches  in  diameter — and  three  inches 
deep.) 

Kisses 

Use  only  strictly  fresh  eggs.    Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 

stiflF  and  add  two'thirds  cup  powdered  sugar  while  beating. 

Beat  until  the  foamy  mixture  stands  by  itself.    Fold  in  one' 

third  cup  powdered  sugar  and  drop  into  little  mounds  on  tins. 

Leave  about  one-half  inch  between  the  mounds. 

Bake  until  dry  and  lightly  browned  in  a  low  oven  for  about 

three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Add  two  ounces  grated  chocolate  and  a  little  vanilla  to  the 

beaten  kisses  for  chocolate  kisses. 

Fold  in  one- quarter  pound  shredded  cocoanut  for  cocoanut 

kisses. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  59 

Cornflake  Kisses 

3  cups  cornflakes  J4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  dry  chipped  cocoa-  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 
nut  Yz  cup  com  syrup 

2  eggs  Yl  cup  sugar 

Stir  together  all  the  ingredients  and  drop  on  buttered  baking 
sheets.  Use  the  equivalent  of  a  heaping  tablespoon  for  each 
"kiss."  Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Schaum  Torte 

Whites  of  6  eggs  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  whites  dry  and  stiff,  adding  the  sugar  a  little  at  a 

time  and  then  the  vinegar  and  vanilla,  beating  constantly. 

Use  a  spring  form.    Grease  and  pour  in  about  two'thirds  of 

the  mixture.  Form  a  circle  of  the  remaining  third  around  the 

edge  of  the  tin.    Bake  three-quarters  to  one  hour  in  a  slow 

oven. 

Serve  filled  with  fresh  berries  covered  with  whipped  cream; 

or  with  fruit  ice  cream,  trimmed  with  whipped  cream. 

Ice  Box  Cake 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  melon  or  spring  form  with  lady  fingers, 
separated  and  with  the  cxirved  sides  toward  the  pan. 
Place  the  filling  on  the  layer  of  lady  fingers,  and  arrange  in 
layers  until  the  form  is  full  or  the  material  used  up.  Finish 
the  top  with  a  few  lady  fingers  laid  in  spokes  from  the  center. 
Stand  in  the  icebox  for  twentyfour  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve,  remove  the  band  of  the  form  and  serve  on  the  metal 
bottom  on  the  platter.  Cover  with  sweetened  whipped  cream 
and  chopped  nuts  or  candied  cherries,  etc 

FilHng: 

Melt  onc'half  pound  sweet  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add 
three  tablespoons  sugar.  Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  stir  in 
three  tablespoons  water.  Cook  slowly  with  the  chocolate  in 
the  double  boiler  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  and  thick;  stir  all 
the  while  to  make  smooth.  Cool  and  add  the  white  beaten 
stiff.  Use  this  filling  as  directed  above. 
Such  a  filling  will  require  two  and  a  half  dozen  lady  fingers. 


60  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cream  PuflFs 

Yl  cup  butter  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  water  3  eggs 
Yl  teaspoon   salt                            Vanilla 

Boil  the  butter  and  water  in  a  saucepan.    Add  the  flour  and 

salt  and  cook  for  a  minute,  stirring  constantly. 

Remove  from  the  flame,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  the  vanilla 

flavor.   Stir  all  the  while  the  eggs  are  being  poured  in. 

Line  the  baking  pan  with  waxed  paper  and  drop  the  batter 

from  a  big  spoon,  heaping  more  dough  in  the  center  than  on 

the  edges. 

Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  and  cool. 
Split  and  fill  with  whipped  cream;  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
on  the  top.  Chopped  maraschino  cherries  may  be  mixed  with 
the  whipped  cream  filling.    Custard  may  also  be  used. 

Brownies 

2  cups  sugar  1  pound  walnut  meats, 
4  eggs  chopped  or  broken 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  flour 

3  squares  grated  chocolate  Pinch  of  salt 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  egg  yolks,  then  the 
grated  chocolate  and  the  nuts.  Stir  and  add  the  flour,  salt 
and  the  stiflly  beaten  white.  Spread  on  flat  pan  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  only  until  they  are  firm  to  the  touch. 
Remove  from  the  oven,  mark  into  squares  or  strips  and  allow 
to  cool  in  the  pan. 

This  makes  a  very  rich  fudgclike  cookie 

No.  2: 

1  cup  sugar  Yl  cup  nut  meats 
1  egg  Yl  cup  flour 

Ya  cup  shortening  Salt 

2  squares  chocolate 

This  makes  a  smaller  amoxmt  of  cookies  that  are  not  as  rich. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  61 

Cocoanut  Cookies 

2  cups  shredded  cocoanut  Yx  cup  milk 

Yl  cup  sugar  l|/i  cups  pastry  flour 

Ya  cup  shortening  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  Ya  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  sugar  and  the  shortening.  Beat  the  egg  and  add. 
Then  stir  in  the  lemon  jiiice,  cocoanut  and  milk. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  and  add  to  mixture. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  on  greased  pan.  Bake  fifteen  to  twenty- 
minutes  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F). 

Chocolate  Nut  Drops 

3  squares  chocolate  2  eggs 

1  cup  broken  walnuts  2  cups  flour 

Yi  cup  butter  Yl  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  Yl  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  sugar  and  salt.  Stir  in  the  eggs  and 
then  the  nuts  and  chocolate.  Sift  the  flour  with  the  soda  and 
salt.   Add  flour  then  milk  gradually  until  all  is  mixed. 

Drop  the  dough  from  a  spoon  and  flatten  out  into  cookies. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Lady  Fingers 

2  eggs  Yl  cup  flour 
Yl  cup  confectioners  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Separate  the  eggs  carefully  and  beat  the  yolks  frothy  and  the 
whites  until  they  stand  alone. 

Add  the  sugar  and  vanilla  after  beating  the  whites  to  complete 
stiffness.  Add  the  frothy  yolks  and  then  the  flour  and  salt 
sifted  together. 

Bake  in  lady'finger  tins  for  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


62  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Soft  Molasses  Cookies 

1  cup  shortening,  melted  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  molasses  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  V/z  cups  raisins 

1  teaspoon  ginger  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  4  cups  pastry  flour 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  the  shortening,  molasses  and  sugar;  add  the  spices  and 

salt  and  then  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  cold  water. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  add  with  the  raisins  and  the  sour  milk. 

Sift  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  and  stir  in.   Drop  onto 

buttered  tins  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Scottish  Shortbread 

Cream  onc'half  pound  butter  with  oncquarter  cup  sugar  and 
add  one  pound  of  flovir  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Roll  to  about  onc'half  inch  thickness  and  prick  with  a  fork. 
Cut  into  squares  six  inches  long  and  lay  on  buttered  baking 
sheets  to  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Ginger  Snaps 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

Yz  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  ginger 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  butter  and  molasses.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients 
and  add  to  the  molasses.  Chill  the  dough.  Roll  very  thin  on 
a  lightly  floured  board.  Cut  with  a  round  cookie  cutter,  place 
on  greased  baking  sheets  and  bake  in  a  moderate  to  hot  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Ginger  snaps  must  be  dry  and  crisp;  but 
an  excess  of  flour  will  make  them  too  hard.  Keep  the  bowl  in 
which  the  dough  is  kept  in  a  cool  place  and  roll  out  only  as 
much  dough  as  you  have  pans  to  fill. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

%  cup  butter  Yz  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  cups  flour  Yz  cup  raisins 

1  cup  oatmeal  Yz  cup  chopped  walnuts 

J/^  cup  milk 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  63 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar  and  add  the  eggs.    Mix  the 

remaining  ingredients  and  stir  in  with  the  butter,  sugar  and 

egg  mixture. 

Use  only  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

Drop  the  cookies  on  a  buttered  pan  allowing  some  room  for 

expansion.  Bake  until  Hghtly  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Frozen  Cookies 

2  cups  melted  shortening  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  Filberts,  almonds  or  peanuts 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon  halved 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  the  others  in  the  order 
given.  Mold  into  a  long  roll  and  wrap  in  a  clean  towel.  Let 
stand  in  a  cold  place  to  become  hard.  Slice  thin  and  bake 
brown  in  a  hot  oven  (390  degrees  F.). 

The  dough  may  be  kept  indefinitely  in  winter  weather  or  in  a 
mechanical  refrigerator  and  may  be  baked  quickly  whenever 
the  oven  is  going. 

Rocks 

Yl  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  milk 

2  cups  flour  Yl  cup  currants  or  seeded 
Salt  raisins 

1  egg 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  flour  and  currants. 
Beat  the  egg,  add  salt  and  baking  powder  and  stir  into  a  stiff 
dough.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  on  a  greased  pan  an  inch  apart. 
Bake  the  rocks  in  a  moderate  oven  to  a  light  brown. 

Molasses  Cookies 

Yl  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  molasses 

Yl  cup  brown  sugar  Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  Yl  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
1  cup  chopped  seeded  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

raisins  2  cups  flour 


(64  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Oream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add 

with  the  molasses  and  raisins.    Sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  tO' 

gether  and  mix  all  thoroughly. 

Roll  the  dough  which  is  quite  stiff,  one-quarter  inch  thick  and 

cut  with  a  cookie  cutter.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen 

minutes. 

Soft  Molasses  Cookies 

%  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  Yz  teaspoon  ginger 

Y^  cup  hot  water  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  the  egg  well  beaten. 

Then  the  molasses  and  hot  water  and  mix  the  sifted  dry  in' 

gredients.    Spoon  onto  a  warmed  greased  pan  and  bake  eight 

to  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

By  using  less  hot  water,  a  stiff  dough  may  be  made,  rolled  out 

and  cut  with  a  cutter. 

Blackberry  Roll 

1  pint  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  butter  A  small  pinch  of  salt 

Add  milk  enough  to  make  the  dough  the  thickness  of  biscuit 
dough.  Roll  about  one-half  inch  thick  and  powder  with  flour 
and  sugar  mixed,  half  and  half. 

Drain  from  one  pint  to  one  quart  of  cooked  blackberries, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  place  on  dough  with  bits  of  butter 
specked  over  berries.  Roll  quickly  (to  keep  dough  from 
splitting)  and  place  in  a  deep  pan  into  which  a  half  pint  of 
cold  water  has  been  placed.  Dust  top  with  two  parts  of  flour 
to  one  part  of  sugar,  place  in  hot  oven  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes. 


Date  Bars 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  walnut  meats 

1  cup  dates  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  flour  2  eggs 

14  cup  butter 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  65 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  eggs  until  light  and  add  to 
butter  and  sugar.  Beat  hard.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Take  half  of  flour  and  roll  dates,  also  walnut  meats,  then 
add  to  butter  and  sugar  mixture.  Add  remainder  of  flour. 
Mix  well.  Bake  in  square  tin  20  minutes.  When  done  cut  in 
oblong  pieces  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  This  recipe  makes 
about  24  bars. 


Cherry  Torte 

Y4  cup  butter  2  egg  yolks 

Y\  cup  lard  Yi  cup  flour 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Yi  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Line  a  form  with  this  dough. 

Strain  the  juice  from  one  quart  of  cherries. 

Make  a  custard: 

4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  ^  cup  sugar 

beaten    (separately)  Yl  cup  sour  cream 

Put  chopped  almonds  on  dough,  then  cherries,  and  then  pour 
custard  over  all.    Bake  45  minutes  in  slow  oven. 


Easy  Cookies 

Ya  cup  shortening  4  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Ya  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening.    Add  milk  to  beaten  eggs  and 

beat;  add  to  sugar  and  vanilla;  add  flour  with  baking  powder. 

Rolls  easily  cut  with  cutter.   Sprinkle  with  sugar.   Bake  about 

fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Cocoanut  Macaroons 

1  can  condensed  milk  9  o^.  shredded  cocoanut 

Mix  together  and  drop  on  greased  pans  and  bake  15'20  min- 
utes at  350  degrees. 


66  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Poppy  Seed  Cakes 

Cream  1/3  cup  butter  scant,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs 
well  beaten.  Put  1/3  cup  poppy  seed  in  bowl  and  pour  over 
2/3  cup  of  milL  Let  stand  while  mixing  the  other  part  of 
cake.  Add  milk  and  V/z  cups  of  flour  in  which  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder  is  sifted.  Beat  well  each  operation. 
Bake  in  a  square  shallow  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with 
any  desired  idng  and  cut  into  squares. 

Crumb  Cookies 

1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  1    cup   walnuts,    pecans   or 

ground  or  rolled  fine  peanuts,  cut  in  pieces. 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 

Mix  all  together  and  drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  a  greased  tin. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  15  minutes  only. 

Grape  Jelly  Cookies 

|/4  lb.  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  J4  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  grape  jelly  About  4  cups  flour 

l/^  cup  milk 

1   cup  chopped  nuts  and 

raisins 
Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  egg,  then  add  milk,  jelly, 
nuts,  raisins  and  vanilla  and,  last,  fold  in  dry  ingredients.  Put 
in  ice  box  to  chill  about  one  hour.  Roll  out  about  J/4  inch 
thick,  cut  with  cookie  cutter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about 
20  minutes, 

Swedish  Ice  Box  Nut  Cookies 

Cream  together  J4  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  butter  or  substitute.  Add  1  teaspoonful 
vanilla  and  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Sift  together  3^  cups 
flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  J/^  tea' 
spoonful  soda.    Add  1  cup  nut  meats.   Beat  egg  whites  and 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  67 

add  to  first  mixture.  Lightly  fold  in  the  flour.  Put  in  a  greased 
bread  tin  and  let  stand  in  ice  box  over  night.  Turn  out  of  pan 
and  slice.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  10  to  12  minutes. 

Sugar  Cookies 

3  tablespoons  butter  lYz  cups  flour 

Yz  cup  sugar  iVi  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  and  then  milk.  Sift  flour 
twice.  Add  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  beat  with  other 
ingredients.  Chill  dough.  Then  roll  out  on  board,  thin.  Cut 
with  cookie  cutter.  Bake  from  15  to  20  minutes  in  moderately- 
hot  oven.  Take  out  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 
A  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring  may  be  added  when  adding 
milk  and  egg,  if  desired. 

Apple  Roll 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

5  tablespoons  shortening  %  cup  sweet  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  then  cut  in  the  shortening,  add  the  milk, 
stirring  all  together.  Roll  dough  on  board  about  Yi  of  an  inch 
thick,  keeping  dough  in  oblong  shape;  spread  with  melted 
butter,  then  a  generous  layer  of  finely  chopped  apples  and 
sugar.  Sprinkle  cinnamon  over  this  and  roll  tightly  into  a 
long  roll.  Cut  slices  about  2  inches  thick  and  place  in  greased 
pan.  Keep  slices  close  together;  on  top  of  each  slice  place  % 
of  an  apple.  Bake  in  oven  until  apples  on  top  are  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  rich  sauce. 

Peanut  Macaroons 

1  egg  white  J/g  teaspoon  salt 

1  cUp  powdered  sugar  1  cup  peanuts  chopped  fine 

Drop  from  spoon  two  inches  apart.  Bake  15  minutes  in  mod' 
erate  oven.   Flavoring  may  be  added  if  desired. 


68  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Drop  Peanut  Cookies 

IY2  cups  light  brown  sugar  J^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  shortening  3  tablespoons  milk 

1  egg  f^  cup  ground  peanuts 

Y2  teaspoon  soda  2J/2  cups  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening. 

Add  the  egg  well  beaten.    Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  the 

peanuts  and  milk.    Drop  batter  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut 

on  a  cookie  sheet  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  15  or  20  minutes. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  rolled  oats 

^  cup  shortening  ]/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  cups  flour 

Yz  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  in  order  named.  Beat  well.    Drop  by  teaspoons  on  well 

greased  tins.   Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Banana  PufiFs 

Take  as  many  bananas  as  there  are  persons  to  serve.  Roll  in 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  then  roll  each  banana  in  thin  pie  crust. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or 
lemon  sauce.   Puffs  may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

Lace  Cookies 

1  cup  post  toasties  1  cup  oatmeal 

1  cup  cocoanut  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  cup  sugar  "                      Pinch  salt 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  mixture  of  eggs,  butter,  and 
vanilla.  Drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  inverted  tins  and  bake  slov/ly. 

English  Apple  Pie  (No  pastry) 

2  very  large  mellow  apples  1  teaspoon  white  sugar 

1  cup  sifted  flour  Yi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Yz  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
Butter  size  of  an  egg 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  69 

Mix  well  the  brown  sugar,  flour  and  butter  (dry).  Grease 
deep  baking  dish;  put  in  all  the  apples  sliced  very  thin,  add  an 
extra  piece  of  butter  about  size  of  English  walnut  sliced  thin 
and  placed  over  apples;  sprinkle  over  this  white  sugar.  Add 
teaspoon  water,  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Place  on  top  of  pie 
the  dry  mixture  (sugar,  butter  and  flour).  Cover  contents 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes.  Serve  hot  or 
cold  with  whipped  cream. 


Dropped  Peanut  Cookies 

2  tablespoons  butter  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Y^  cup  sugar  lJ/2  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  Yi  cup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  again.  Add  the  egg, 
well  beaten,  and  the  chopped  peanuts.  Add  the  milk.  Mix 
and  sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  and  add  same  to  the 
first  mixture.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  a  pan  about  one  inch 
apart  and  decorate  with  half  a  peanut  on  each  cookie.  Bake 
15  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


Frozen  Cookies 

lYi  cups  butter  or  half  but'  AYi  cups  flour 

ter  and  half  shortening  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  brown  sugar  \Yi  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  eggs  J4  teaspoon  allspice 
Yz  pound  shelled  almonds 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar,  gradually  creaming  until  fluffy. 
Add  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each 
addition.  Add  coarsely  chopped  blanched  almonds.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  together  and  cut  into  first  mixture.  Pack  dough 
into  a  buttered  bread  pan  and  chill  in  ice  box  over  night. 
SUce  thin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  15  minutes. 


70  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Almond  Horns 

Yl  pound  flour  Y^  pound  chopped  almonds 

Yl  pound  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  well  together,  roll  out  one  quarter  inch  thick,  cut  and 
shape  into  crescents.  Chill.  Bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes. 
When  they  are  cool  roll  them  in  powdered  sugar. 


Hard  Tack 

4  eggs  2  cups  dates,  stoned 

2  cups  sugar  \Yi  cups  nut  meats 

2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  water 

Cream  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together,  then  add  dates  and 
nuts;  also  water.  This  makes  a  stiff  batter.  Spread  over  a 
waxed  paper  in  a  long  biscuit  pan,  thin,  and  bake  till  it  is 
a  hght  brown  all  over.  Turn  out  and  cut  in  squares  and 
dip  in  powdered  sugar  while  hot. 


Orange  Crullers 

2  eggs,  beaten  light  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Ya  cup  sugar  3  cups  cake  flour 

2  tablespoons  melted  short'  flour 

ening  Ya  cup  milk 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  Orange  marmalade 

1  orange 

Beat  eggs  vmtil  light,  add  sugar,  then  melted  shortening.  Sift 
flour,  add  salt  and  baking  powder  and  sift  again.  Add  the 
flour  alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Then  add 
grated  rind  of  orange.  Mix  the  dough.  Roll  the  dough,  only 
part  at  a  time,  on  a  floured  board,  into  a  sheet  onc'fourth  inch 
thick.  With  a  one  and  onchalf  inch  biscuit  cutter,  cut  dough 
into  rounds.  Put  about  one-half  teaspoon  of  orange  marma- 
lade  on  a  round  of  dough  and  cover  with  a  second  round.  Wet 
the  edges  and  press  together  closely.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.   Dust  with  powdered  sugar. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  71 

Almond  Roll 

1  cake  yeast  Vz  teaspoon  almond  extract 

1  tablespoon  sugar  Yi  cup  chopped  almonds 

J4  cup  water  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

3^2  or  ^  cups  flour  1  egg 
Yi  of  orange  peel,  grated 

Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  water.  Scald  and  cool 
milk.  Mix  these  with  1  cup  of  the  floiu".  Let  rise  in  a  warm 
place  until  bubbly.  Add  beaten  egg,  melted  butter,  salt,  ex' 
tract,  and  flour.  Work  well  into  soft  dough;  let  rise  to  double 
its  height;  roll  out  into  a  sheet,  brush  with  melted  butter, 
sprinkle  peel  and  almonds  on  it  and  roll  up;  form  into  a  roll 
and  butter  the  top.  Let  rise  again  until  light  and  bake  30  min' 
utes  at  400°  F, 

Com  Flake  Cookies 

4  egg  whites  2  cups  com  flakes 

J/2  cup  sugar  Nuts 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  then  add  sugar,  com  flakes  and  nuts. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Cocoanut  Jam  Tarts 

Crust: 

1^2  cups  flour  Yi  cup  solid  shortening 

%  teaspoon  salt  4  to  6  tablespoons  water 

Filling: 

1  cup  jam  J/2  cup  sugar 

3  egg  whites  1  cup  cocoanut 

Y^  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Sift  flour  and  salt;  cut  in  shortening  with  knife.    Add  water, 

cutting  dough  with  a  knife.    Toss  on  flovired  board,  pat  and 

roll  out. 

Line  tart  tins  with  crust  and  put  1  teaspoon  jam  into  each. 

Beat  egg  whites  until  frothy;  add  baking  powder  and  beat  until 

stiff,  then  fold  in  sugar  and  finely  chopped  cocoanut.    Put  1 

tablespoon  cocoanut  mixture  on  each  tart  and  bake  in  a  moder' 

ate  oven  (325  degrees)  25  minutes. 


72  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Spanish  Bun 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  cocoa 

1  cup  sweet  milk  4    level    teaspoons   baking 

2  cups  flour  powder 

Yl  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  raisins,  seedless 

Yl  teaspoon  allspice  1  cup  nut  meats 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.    Mix  dry  ingredients  and  alternate 

with  milk  into  sugar  and  butter.   Add  floured  raisins  and  nuts 

to  mixture.  Pour  into  well  floured  loaf  pan.   Bake  one  hour  vci 

moderate  oven. 

Oat  Meal  Cookies 

3  cups  rolled  oats  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  cups  granulated  sugar                 Yz  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  2  well  beaten  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  5  tablespoons  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  melted  butter 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly.    Next  add  the  eggs,  then 

the  milk  and  melted  butter.    Drop  on  greased  pan,  about  the 

size  of  English  walnuts,  allowing  room  to  spread.    Bake  in 

moderately  hot  oven. 

Cream  Puffs 

1  cup  boiling  water  4  eggs 

Yl  cup  butter  1  cup  flour 

Boil  butter  with  water  until  melted.  Remove  from  fire  and 
drop  in  whole  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well.  Drop  in  but' 
tered  muffin  tins.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  50  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven  and  cut  open  so  steam  may  escape.  When  cold,  fill 
with  whipped  cream. 

Snowballs 

2  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

Yl  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Enough  flour  so  that  they  will  drip  from  a  tablespoon  three' 
fourths  full.  Drop  in  hot  shortening  and  fry  like  doughnuts. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  73 

Fruit  Drop  Cakes 

1  egg  Ys  teaspoon  salt 
%  cups  of  sugar  J4  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cups  of  water  ]/^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1%  cups  of  flour  J4  cup  of  chopped  figs 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yz  cup  of  chopped  nuts 
%  cup  of  milk  Y4  cup  of  chopped  dates 
2Y2  tablespoons  of  butter 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar,  then  the  well  beaten  egg. 
Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon  and  salt  and 
add  alternately  with  milk  diluted  with  water  to  the  first  mix' 
ture.  Add  the  vanilla,  nuts,  dates  and  figs.  Mix  well  and  drop 
from  spoon  onto  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  This  recipe  makes  about  twentyeight  cakes. 

FROSTINGS 

Divinity  Fudge 

2  cups  white  sugar  Yz  cup  chopped  walnut 
2/3  cup  white  syrup  meats  or  raisins 

1/3  cup  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
2  egg  whites 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  syrup  until  a  few  drops  in  cold  water 
becomes  hard  and  brittle.  Beat  egg  whites  stifi^  and  add  nuts 
and  vanilla.  When  syrup  is  done  pour  very  slowly  into  the 
egg  whites,  beating  all  the  time.  Beat  until  mixture  will  hold 
its  shape  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Drop  on  buttered 
platters  to  harden,  or  use  as  rich  frosting. 

Boiled  Frosting 

Cook  one  cup  sugar  in  onc'half  cup  water  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Stir  to  dissolve  sugar.  Without  further  stirring, 
cook  the  syrup  until  it  forms  a  thread  from  the  end  of  the 
spoon. 

Stand  to  cool.  Meanwhile,  beat  one  egg'white  stiff.  Pour  the 
syrup  slowly  into  the  egg'white,  beating  constantly.  This  will 
form  a  frosting  thick  enough  to  spread. 


74  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Brown  sugar  may  be  used  with  the  addition  of  one  egg-white 

and  a  Httle  vanilla  flavor. 

If  chopped  nuts  are  to  be  added,  stir  them  in  just  before 

spreading  the  frosting  on  the  cake, 

A  qxiick  frosting  may  be  made  by  beating  one  white  of  egg 

and  adding  onchalf  cup  powdered  sugar,   gradually.    Beat 

until  smooth  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.    This  makes 

a  good  frosting  for  cup  cakes  and  pound  cakes. 

Chocolate  Frosting 

1  square  chocolate  8  tablespoons  powdered 

3  tablespoons  sugar,  granu'  sugar 

lated  White  of  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  water  V/z  teaspoons  vanilla 

Cook  the  chocolate,  water  and  sugar  together  to  make  a 
smooth,  shiny  liquid. 

Stir  the  egg  but  do  not  beat  it.  Add  the  powdered  sugar  and 
stir  smooth.   Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  add  vanilla. 
Cool  before  spreading  on  top  of  the  cake. 

Chocolate  filling: 

Yz  cup  sugar  Yz  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Yz  cup  grated  chocolate 
Mix  the  sugar,  cornstarch  and  grated  chocolate  together  and 
stir  in  the  milk.    Cook  until  thick,  stir  to  make  smooth  and 
allow  to  cool.    When  cool  add  vanilla  and  spread  between 
the  layers  of  a  cake 

Boiled  Frosting 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 
Yz  cup  water 

Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread;  add  above  to  three  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Any  flavoring  may  be  used.  Vinegar  prevents 
frosting  fuom  hardening  or  getting  sticky. 

Maple  Icing 

1  tablespoon  hot  coffee  Few  drops  of  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  maple  syrup  Confectioner's  sugar 

Mix  together  coffee,  syrup  and  vanilla  and  beat  in  confection- 
er's sugar  till  stiff  enough  to  spread. 


REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  75 

Seven  Minute  Idng 

1  egg  white  12  marshmallows 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  water 

Put  egg,  sugar  and  water  in  double  boiler  and  set  over  rapidly 
boiling  water.  Beat  constantly  with  an  egg  beater  for  seven 
minutes.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  vanilla  and  marshmal' 
lows,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Beat  until  of  the  proper  consistency 
to  spread. 

CARAMEL  ICING 

Cook  2  cupfuls  light  brown  sugar  with  1  cupful  milk  or  water 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.    Add  1 
tablespoonful  butter  and  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.   Remove  from 
fire;  leave  until  cold,  then  beat  until  creamy. 
Note:   If  sugar  curdles  the  milk,  add  a  pinch  of  baking  soda. 

Chocolate  Icing 

Take  1  can  condensed  milk,  2  squares  of  bitter  chocolate,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Melt  chocolate,  add  condensed  milk  and  cook 
until  it  forms  a  ball  and  leaves  sides  of  pan.  Add  vanilla. 

Pies 

Quick  Pastry — ^Pie  Dough 

Yz  cup  shortening  Ya,  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Yl  cup  cold  water  J4  teaspoon  salt 

lJ4  cups  flour 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  water  and  mix  in  the  dry  ingredients 

to  make  a  smooth  dough.  Roll  on  a  floured  board.  Cut  in  two 

pieces  sUghtly  larger  than  the  pie  tin. 

Pastry 

\Yi  cup  floxir  Cold  water  to  make  soft 

Ya,  teaspoon  salt  dough 

Yl  cup  shortening 

Mix  flour  and  salt,  cut  in  shortening.   Moisten  to  soft  dough 

with  cold  water.    Toss  on  lightly  floured  board  and  roll  out, 

handUng  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Line  two  pie  plates  and  partially  bake. 


76  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Buttermilk  Pie  Filling 

3  cups  buttermilk  3  eggs  (yolks  only) 

l|/2  cups  sugar  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 

3  tablespoons  flour  Juice  of  Yi  lemon 
(This  makes  two  pies.) 

Mix  sugar  and  flour.  Add  buttermilk,  egg  yolks  and  butter. 
Mix  well.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  con' 
stantly.  After  taking  off  stove,  add  flavor.  Cool  and  pour  in 
baked  shells.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  adding  a  Httle 
baking  powder  and  sugar.  Place  on  top  of  pie  and  brown  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Deep  Dish  Apple  Pic 

4  tart  apples 

Slice  the  apples  quite  thin  and  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish, 

casserole  or  deep  berry  dish.    Season  with  one  cup  sugar  and 

one  teaspoon  cinnamon.   One  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  a  Uttle 

grated  rind  improves  the  flavor  of  the  apples. 

If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy,  add  two  tablespoons  flour. 

Cover  the  dish  with  pastry  rolled  one-quarter  inch  thick.   Cut 

gashes  in  the  crust,  press  the  edges  with  a  fork  and  bake. 

Hot  Water  Pie  Crust 

1  cup  lard  3  cups  sifted  floxir 

Yl  cup  boiling  hot  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

Put  lard  into  large  mixing  bowl;  add  hot  water;  work  into 
creamy  mass;  add  about  one-half  the  flour,  mixed  with  salt, 
and  work  in  the  rest  of  the  flour  gradually.  Put  on  the  ice 
a  short  while  before  rolling  out,  and  when  baking  a  two- 
crust  pie  after  putting  in  fruit  fiUing,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  50  minutes. 

Cream  Date  Pie 

Scald  one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  Add  two  tablespoons  corn- 
starch mixed  with  three  tablespoons  sugar.  One  tablespoon 
butter,  three  egg  yolks,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  vanilla. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  77 

Cook  until  thick.  Chop  one'half  package  dates  in  mixture. 
Pour  into  rich  crust  previously  baked.  Cover  with  meringue 
of  three  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  or  whipped  cream  sweetened 
to  taste. 


Texas  Pecan  Pie 

Use  good  pie  crust. 

Beat  four  eggs,  conserving  the  whites  of  two  for  meringue. 
Add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  bottle  of  whipping  cream  and  one 
cup  of  broken  pecans.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  cou' 
stantly  until  it  is  thick.  Beat  up  the  whites  with  a  Uttle  sugar 
and  brown  in  oven  after  spreading  on  pie, 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pie 

2  cups  milk  2  egg  yolks 

Ys  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yz  cup  sugar  %  cup  grated  cocoanut 

]/4  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  milk.  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Combine  with  hot  milk 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes,  stirring  until  thick. 
Add  hot  mixture  to  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks.  Return  to  double 
boiler  and  cook  5  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  lumps.  Add 
vanilla  and  part  of  cocoanut.  Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell  and 
cover  with  meringue  made  of  the  two  egg  whites  and  sprinkle 
with  remaining  cocoanut.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
meringue  browns. 


Raisin  Pie 

1  heaping  cup  of  seeded  1  teaspoon  of  flour 

raisins  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

1  egg  (beaten  slightly)  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
1  cup  of  thick  sour  milk 

Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly  and  bake  with  two  crusts.  Bake 
about  Yz  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


78  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Butter  Scotch  Marshmallow  Pie 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  2  dozen   raarshmallows 

3  tablespoons  butter  Pastry  crust 
y^  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  mix  sugar  and  cornstarch,  add  to 

tnilk,  stir  until  thick,  cover  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Add  butter  and  salt  and  pour  over  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten. 

Return  to  double  boiler,  stir  and  cook  one  minute;  remove 

from  fire  and  cool. 

When  ready  to  serve  add  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  baked 

pastry  crust.    Cut  marshmallows  in  pieces  and  put  into  a 

warm  place  until  they  are  soft. 

Beat  egg  whites  xintil  stiff,  beat  in  marshmallows  and  spread 

over  the  top  of  the  pie.    Bake  in  the  oven  imtil  delicately 

browned. 

Butterscotch  Pie 

6  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

\Vl  cups  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  granulated 

2V2  cups  milk  sugar 

2  eggs  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pie  dough. 

Line  a  small  pie  tin  with  pastry,  flute  the  edge. 

Cook  the  butter  and  brown  sugar  together  until  it  t\ims  a 

rich   brown.    Add   scalded   milk   and  heat  until   the   sugar 

dissolves. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly,  add  the  cornstarch  and 
pour  the  milk  mixture  over  gradually,  stirring  continually. 
Flavor  with  one-quarter  teaspoon  vanilla  and  pour  into  the 
lined  pie  pan.  Bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450 
degrees  F.)  and  then  reduce  the  heat  to  a  moderate  heat  (325 
degrees  F.)  until  the  custard  is  firm. 

Cover  with  the  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  to  which 
the  granulated  sugar  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  vanilla  are 
added  gradually.  Brown  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  79 

Lemon  Pie 

V/z  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  lemon 

1  cup  water  White  of  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  sugar  for 

1  cup  sugar  meringue 

Mix  cornstarch  with  a  Kttle  cold  water.  Heat  the  cup  of  water 

and  add  the  cornstarch  paste.    Cook  until  transparent.    Add 

the  butter,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grated  lemon  rind.  Set  aside 

to  cool. 

Beat  well  when  cool  and  turn  into  a  pie  pan  lined  with  pastry. 

Cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  white  beaten  very  stiff  with  the 

sugar.  Brown  the  meringue  but  serve  the  pie  cold. 


Lemon  Custard  Pie 

V/z  cups  sugar  2]/^  cups  boiling  water 

4  tablespoons  flour  J/2  cup  lemon  juice 

5  tablespoons  cornstarch  Grated  rind  of  one  lemon 
3  eggs  6  tablespoons  granulated 
Yz  teasspoon  salt  sugar  for  meringue 

Yz  teaspoon  vanilla 

Stir  boiling  water  into  the  mixed  dry  ingredients.   Cook  in  a 

double   boiler   for  fifteen   minutes,   stirring  as  the   mixture 

thickens.   Beat  the  yolks  and  pour  the  cornstarch  mixture  on 

slowly;  stir  in  well.   Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  two 

minutes  longer.   Remove  from  the  flame,  add  the  lemon  juice 

and  grated  rind. 

When  cold  pour  into  a  baked  pastry  shell.    Cover  with  a 

meringue  of  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  with  the  sxigar  and  bake 

the  meringue  to  a  light  brown  for  about  fifteen  minutes. 


Lemon  Meringue  Pie 

Yz  cup  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  2  lemons 

2  tablespoons  water  Yz  cup  confectioners'  sugar 
Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  the  water  and  add  to  the  melted 


80  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

brown  sugar.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  stir  into  the  mixture. 
Add  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  the  juice  of  the  two. 
Cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  to  make  a  smooth  custard. 
Line  a  pie  dish  with  unbaked  pastry.  Fill  with  the  lemon 
custard  and  bake  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Make  a  meringue  of  beaten  egg'whites  and  powdered  sugar 
added  gradually.  Cover  the  pie  with  this  meringue  and  return 
to  the  oven  long  enough  to  brown. 


Mince  Pie 

Mincemeat  as  follows: 

2  cups  chopped  lean  beef  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  cups  chopped  tart  apples  1  cup  strong  coffee 

2  cups  currants  1  tablespoon    each    of   nut' 

2  cups  seeded  raisins  nieg,  ground  cloves,  cin' 

1  cup  chopped  suet  or  fat  namon  and  ginger 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  meat'Stock 

Boil  the  meat  until  tender,  cool  in  the  juice  and  chop  fine. 

Mix  the  materials  in  the  order  written.    Simmer  slowly;  bottle 

and  seal  while  hot 

When  making  a  pie,  line  a  deep  pie  pan  with  crust,  fill  with 

mincemeat,  using  one  quart,  pour  over  a  tablespoon  of  cream, 

a  tablespoon  of  sugar  cind  dot  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450  degrees 

F.)  for  half  an  hour. 

Serve  hot  with  pieces  of  American  cheese. 


Mock  Cherry  Pie 

1  cup  cranberries  1  tablespoon  flour 

Yl  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  butter 

y^  cup  sugar 

Cut  the  cranberries  in  halves  and  the  raisins  into  pieces.  Mix 
flour  and  sugar  together  and  add  to  the  cranberries  and  raisins. 
Fill  the  lower  crust  with  the  mixture  and  dot  over  it  with 
butter.   Bake  between  crusts. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOtD  HELPS  81 

Puddings 

Bavarian  Cream 

2  teaspoons  gelatine  5  eggs 

Ya  cup  water  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

y^  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  hot  water. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  sugar,  vanilla  and  pinch  of 

salt.    Turn  into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  the  mixture 

thickens.    Add  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  remove  from  the 

flame  to  cool.   Beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add  to  the  mixture. 

Turn  into  a  mold,  chill  and  set  on  ice. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Any  flavoring  may  be  substituted 

for  the  vanilla. 

Caramel  Custard 

4  eggs  Yz  cup  sugar 

4  cups  milk  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  salt;  pour  scalded  milk  slowly  over 

the  eggs  and  stir  the  whole. 

Brown  the  sugar  (or  melt  brown  sugar)  stirring  to  prevent 

burning.  When  browned,  stir  in  the  eggs  and  milk  mixture. 

Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  greased  baking  dish.   Bake  in  a 

pan  of  water  in  a  moderate  oven;  do  not  allow  the  water  in  the 

pan  to  boil  for  this  will  toughen  the  custard.    The  custard 

will  brown  and  set  when  done. 

Serve  cold  with  cream. 

Individual  custards  may  be  made  in  cups,  standing  them  in 

the  water. 

Floating  Island 

4  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

Yi  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

2  cups  milk 

Put  the  yolks  into  a  bowl  with  the  sugar,  milk,  salt  and  vanilla. 

Beat  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  double  boiler.   Cook  slowly 

for  ten  minutes  to  form  a  creamy  custard.  Remove  from  the 

flame  and  cool. 

Stand  on  ice  when  chilled;  beat  the  whites  stiff,  adding  a 

tablespoon   of  powdered  sugar.    The  whites   must  be   stiff 


82  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

enough  to  stand  alone.  Spread  a  Httle  jam  over  the  custard 
and  then  spread  on  the  stifF  whites  in  blobs  to  resemble  islands. 
For  chocolate  floating  island,  add  two  squares  of  chocolate 
melted  to  the  milk  when  hot 

Blanc  Mange 

2  cups  milk  4  tablespoons  sugar 

4  tablespoons  com  starch  1  tablespoon  vanilla  extract 

3  eggs  Salt 

Mix  the  com  starch  with  one  cup  of  the  milk.   Scald  the  other 

cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler.   Stir  the  cold  milk  slowly  into 

the  hot  milk  and  cook  together  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  sugar,  salt  and  flavoring.   Add  to  the  milk 

mixture  and  cook  for  five  minutes. 

Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and  place  in  a  mold  or  into  small 

forms.    Put  on  ice  to  form.    Serve  with  fruit  or  whipped 

cream  on  the  top. 

Onchalf  cup  grated  chocolate  may  be  substituted  for  the 

vanilla  in  the  above  recipe. 

Canadian  Pudding 

1  cup  chopped  suet  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1   teaspoon  each   of  cinna- 

1  cup  brown  sugar  mon,  cloves,  nutmeg 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  2  teaspoons  of  baking  pow 

1  cup  finely  chopped  apples  der  in  2  large  cups  of  flour 

Steam  or  boil  three  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Carrot  Plum  Pudding 

1  cup  grated  raw  potato  J4  cup  citron,  cut  fine 

1  cup  grated  raw  carrot  2  eggs 

1  cup  suet  chopped  fine  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

l|/2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  seedless  raisins  (groimd) 

Yl  cup  currants  Yl  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Mix  soda  with  potato  and  carrot;  add  sugar,  suet,  and  eggs 

slightly  beaten.    Sift  spices  with  flour  and  add  to  mixture. 

Lastly  add  fruit  slightly  floured.    Steam  three  hours. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  83 

A  Pound  Plum  Pudding 

1  pound  of  suet  1  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger 

1  pound  of  currants  Yi  pound  of  bread  crumbe 

1  pound  of  seeded  raisins  Yz  pound  of  flour 
8  eggs  Yi  pint  of  milk 
Yl  grated  nutmeg 

2  oimces  of  sliced  candied 
peel 

Chop  the  suet  fine;  mix  with  it  the  dry  ingredients;  stir 
these  well  together,  and  add  the  well'beaten  eggs  and  milk 
to  moisten  with.  Beat  up  the  mixture  well,  and  should  the 
above  proportion  of  milk  not  be  found  sufficient  to  make  it 
of  the  proper  consistency,  a  little  more  should  be  added.  Press 
the  pudding  into  a  mould,  tie  it  in  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil 
five  hours,  or  rather  longer,  and  serve  With  sauce. 
Note:  The  above  pudding  may  be  baked  instead  of  boiled; 
it  should  be  put  into  a  buttered  mould  or  pan  and  baked  for 
about  two  hours;  a  smaller  pudding  would  take  about  one  and 
a  quarter  hours. 

Graham  Cracker  Pudding 

4  tablespoons  butter  f^  cup  milk 

Yl  cup  sugar  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

\Yi  level  teaspoonsful  bak'  3  cups  rolled  graham  crackers 

ing  powder. 
Dates  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and  salt.  Mix 
cracker  crumbs  with  baking  powder  and  milk.  Add  white  of 
egg  beaten  stiffly.   Put  in  mold  and  steam  lYi  hours. 

Dale  Pudding  ' 

1  pint  boiling  water  Yl  cup  nuts 

Ya  teaspoonful  salt  Yl  cup  graham  flour 

Yl  cup  sugar  Yl  pound  dates  (pitted) 

Put  sugar  and  salt  into  boiling  water;  add  graham  flour  very 

slowly.   Cook  25  minutes;  stir  in  the  dates  (which  have  been 

chopped) ;  turn  oflF  the  fire  and  add  nuts  and  vanilla.   Pour  in 

buttered  pan  and  cool. 

Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  whipped  cream. 


84  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Bread  Pudding 

3  cups  bread  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  Nutmeg  or  vanilla 

2  cups  milk 

Beat  mixture  and  eggs  together;  add  milk.  Poxir  mixture  over 
moistened  bread  and  stir.  Add  flavoring  to  taste. 

Sauce  for  Bread  Pudding 

2  eggs  Yi  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  thoroughly;  add  vanilla  and  put  in  double 
boikr;  add  butter.  Do  not  boil. 

Pineapple  Rice 

Cook  one  cup  rice;  when  done  add  one  cup  sugar,  one  large 
can  grated  pineapple  and  cool.  When  cool  add  onc'half  pint 
cream  whipped  thick  and  put  on  icz  until  ready  to  serve.  Gar- 
nish with  whipped  cream  and  cherries  and  serve. 

Jellied  Grapes 

y^  cup  of  rice  Yi  cup  of  water 

2  cups  of  grapes  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
Sprinkle  the  rice  and  sugar  with  the  grapes.  Place  them  in  a 
dish,  pour  on  the  water,  cover  close  and  simmer  two  hours, 
slowly,  in  the  oven.  Serve  warm  as  sauce  or  cold  as  pudding. 
If  served  warm  as  pudding,  increase  sHghtly  the  proportion 
of  rice  and  sugar. 

Prune  Pudding 

Yi  pound  pnmes  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Yl  cup  sugar 

Stew  prunes  until  soft,  then  chop  about  the  size  of  raisins. 

Beat  egg  whites  stiff  and  add  to  sugar,  then  add  to  prunes 

gradually.    Stir  all  well  and  bake   15  or  20  minutes.    Serve 

hot  or  cold  with  cream  or  whipped  cream.    Vanilla  may  be 

added. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  85 

Marshmallow  Rice  Pudding 

1  cup  rice  Yz  cup  sugar 

3J4  cups  water  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

il  teaspoon  salt  Vi  cup  milk 

3  eggs  1  dozen  marshmallows 

Put  salt  in  water  and  boil.  When  it  begins  to  boil  pour  rice 
islowly  and  boil  until  tender.  Then  mix  eggs,  sugar,  milk  and 
extract  together  and  add  to  rice.  Put  in  a  baking-dish  and 
cover  the  top  with  marshmallows.  Bake  slowly  until  light 
brown. 

Blueberry  Pudding 

Yl  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

4  tablespoons  oil  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  egg                                               Yl  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  water  Yl  teaspoon  mace 

2  cups  blueberries 

Cream  sugar,  oil  and  egg  together;  add  water.  Stir  in  the 
sifted  dry  ingredients  and  blueberries.  Turn  in  to  a  greased 
mold;  cover  tightly  and  steam  two  and  onc'half  hours. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding 

Yl  cup  water  Yl  cup  milk 

Yl  cup  sugar  %  cup  flour 

Yl  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  egg  Pinch  salt 

Butter  baking  dish  and  put  in  3  sliced  and  peeled  apples.  Cover 

with  the  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  beaten  egg,  salt, 

milk,  flour  and  baking  powder.   Pour  over  apples  and  bake  30 

minutes  or  until  apples  are  tender.    Serve  warm  with  cream. 

Lemon  Pudding 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

Add  juice  and  rind  of  one  1  cup  milk 

lemon 
Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  last.   Set  bake  dish  in  pan  of  hot 
water  while  baking.   Bake  in  slow  oven  Yl  hoxir.    Serve  with 
whipped  cream.   May  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 


86  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Indian  Pudding 

J/^  cup  commeal  1  tablespoon  molasses 

2  tablespoons  sugar  ^/^  cup  raisins  or  Yz  cup  figs, 
Yq  teaspoon  ginger  dates,  or  chopped  apples 

3  cups  milk 

Put  commeal  in  greased  baking  dish.  Scald  one-half  of  milk 
and  pour  over  commeal.  Stir  this  well.  Add  the  fruit  and 
seasonings.  Add  rest  of  milk  cold  and  cook  in  slow  oven  for 
two  hours,  stirring  three  or  four  times  during  baking. 

Rice-Corn  Pudding 

1  cup  commeal  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  rice  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk 

Boil  rice  in  one  and  onc'half  cups  water  for  ten  minutes.  Scald 
half  the  commeal  with  rice  water,  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  then 
the  melted  butter.  Add  the  milk,  rest  of  commeal  together 
with  salt  and  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  bake  40  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Carrot  Pudding 

2  cups  ground  carrots  lJ/2  cups  flour 

1  cup  ground  potatoes  I  teaspoon  soda  in  2  tea* 

1  cup  ground  suet  spoons  hot  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  salt 

Conserve  all  the  vegetable  juices  during  grinding.    Mix  all 

ingredients  and  steam  in  a  greased  pan  for  three  hours.   Serve 

with  hard  or  foamy  sauce. 

CoflFee  Souffle 

}Sx.  one  and  onchalf  cups  strong  coffee,  one  tablespoon  gck' 
tine,  onc'third  cup  granulated  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  milk. 
Heat  in  a  double  boiler,  add  yolks  of  three  eggs  slightly  beaten 
and  mix  with  one-third  cup  granulated  sugar  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt.  Cook  until  it  tiiickens.  Add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Mold,  chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  87 

Banana  Whip 

(Serving  of  foiir) 

2  bananas  Yz  pint  bottle  of  whipping 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  cream 

Yz  cup  of  sugar  Pistachio'nuts 

Strain  the  pulp  of  the  bananas  through  a  sieve,  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  sugar.  Mix  the  ingredients,  and  place  it  on  the  stove 
letting  it  come  to  a  boil.  Then  place  it  in  the  ice  box  until  it 
is  chilled.  After  it  is  thoroughly  cooled,  place  two'thirds  of  a 
cup  of  cream  in  a  bowl  and  whip  it  until  it  is  firm  to  the 
bottom  of  the  bowl.  Then  fold  the  cream  into  the  banana 
mixture  and  place  it  into  glasses,  covering  it  with  the  remain' 
ing  cream,  which  is  also  whipped,  and  then  sprinkle  the  top 
with  die  blanched  pistachio'nuts. 

Blanched  Pistachio-Nuts 

Put  the  pistachio'nuts  in  a  dish,  covering  with  boiling  hot 
water.  Let  stand  for  two  minutes,  after  which  remove  the  hot 
water  and  then  cover  with  cold  water.  Drain  the  water  and 
then  remove  the  skins  of  the  nuts. 

Jelly  Crescents 

One  large  tablespoon  butter,  one  of  lard,  rubbed  into  cup  and 
a  half  of  flour;  add  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  enough  milk  to  roll  out  the  dough.  Cut  in  strips 
about  two  inches  wide  and  three  inches  long,  and  put  any 
kind  of  jelly,  for  a  filling,  and  roll,  pressing  both  ends.  Form 
into  crescents  and  bake  about  half  an  hour.  When  taken  out 
of  the  oven  dip  in  powdered  sugar. 

Peanut  Brittle  Whip 

1  lb.  peanut  brittle  (ground)^         Yl  ^-   marshmallows 
or  run  through  food  (chopped) 

chopper  1  pint  whipped  cream 

Stir  all  together  and  chill  for  4  hours  before  serving.   Then 

serve  with  chocolate  wafers. 


88  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Fruit  Squares 

1  package  plain  gelatine  4  cups  granulated  sugar 

1  cup  walnuts  Juice  of  1  orange  and  lemon 

Yl  cup  candied  cherries  Vanilla 

1  package  pitted  dates  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Soak  gelatine  for  15  minutes  in  Yz  cup  of  cold  water.  Then 
add  boiling  water  to  gelatine  and  stir  well.  Then  add  sugar 
and  juice  of  orange  and  lemon.  Bring  to  boil  and  let  simmer 
15  or  20  minutes.  Cut  nuts,  cherries  and  dates.  Remove  mix' 
ture  from  fire  and  add  vanilla,  nuts,  cherries  and  dates.  Wet 
pans  in  cold  water,  then  pour  mixture  in  Yl  u^ch  thick  and 
let  cool  over  night.  Cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar. 

Cinnamon  Apples 

Boil  up  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  water, 

one  tablespoon  red  cinnamon  candies. 

Pare  and  core  six  tart  apples,  cut  into  quarters  and  drop  into 

the  Uquid  syrup.  Cook  slowly  for  three-quarters  hour,  basting 

with  the  syrup.   Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Apples  need  not  be  cut  into  pieces  unless  desired. 

Maple  Cream  Whip 

\Yi  cups  maple  sugar  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  hot  water  1  cup  pecans  or  English 
%  cup  cornstarch  walnuts 

Y^  cup  cold  water  Whipped  cream 

3  egg  whites  (beaten) 

Add  the  brown  sugar  to  the  hot  water  and  bring  to  boil.  Mix 
one'fourth  cup  cold  water  to  com  starch  and  add  to  boiling 
syrup.  Use  double  boiler  and  cook  15  minutes.  After  taking 
from  fire  let  cool  slightly.  Then  add  egg  whites  stiffly  beaten, 
vanilla  and  nuts.   Put  in  sherbet  glasses  and  chill. 

Charlotte  Russe 

Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  light 

hght  with  Yl  cup  sugar 

1  pint  cream,  beaten  stiff 
Stir  yolks  into  cream.  Add  the  well  beaten  whites.   One-half 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  89 

ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  warm  water.  Let 
gelatine  become  a  little  cool  before  adding  to  the  cream.  Line 
dish  with  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers.  Pour  on 
the  Charlotte  Russe.  Let  cool  before  serving.  Garnish  with 
maraschino  cherry  or  angelica  in  small  bits. 

Rhubarb  Individual  Fanchonettes 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  cream,  whipped, 
Yl  cup  strained  orange  juice  flavored  and  sweetened 

1  tablespoon  powdered  A  number  of  individual 

gelatine  pastry  shells 

1  piece  orange  peel 

Cut  rhubarb  in  inch  pieces.  Place  in  baking  dish  in  layers, 
sprinkling  sugar  between  layers.  Add  two  tablespoons  water, 
one  tablespoon  lard  and  few  thin  strips  orange  peel.  Place  in 
moderate  oven,  cover  and  bake  one  hour.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  orange  juice  and  when  rhubarb  is  cooked,  remove  from 
oven  and  add  this  mixture  to  it.  Let  it  get  cold.  When  ready 
to  serve  fill  shells  with  rhubarb  mixture,  heap  with  whipped 
cream  and  decorate  with  crystalized  orange  peel. 

Dutch  Cobbler 

Into  a  pie  tin  put 

3  cups  apples,  cut  thin  1  tablespoon  flour 
1  tablespoon  butter                        Pinch  salt,  cloves 

1  tablespoon  molasses  3  tablespoons  hot  water 

1  cup  sugar 
Top  crust  only. 

Bake  40  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Bananas  En  Casserole 

6  bananas  1  tablespoon  maple  syrup 

2  tablespoons  butter  Juice  of  1  lemon 

4  tablespoons  sugar 

Cut  bananas  into  halves  lengthwise  and  place  in  a  casserole, 
together  with  melted  butter,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  and  maple 
syrup,  and  bake  slowly  about  20  minutes,  basting  with  the 
sweet  syrup  from  time  to  time. 


90  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Prune  Whip 

Ys  pound  prunes  J4  cup  sugar 

Whites  of  4  eggs  J/2  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes;  soak  several  hours  in  cold  water 

to  cover;  cook  in  same  water  until  soft;  remove  stones  and  rub 

prunes  through  a  strainer;  add  sugar;  cook  5  minutes  or  until 

consistency  of  marmalade.    Cool.    Then  beat  whites  of  eggs 

until  stiff;  add  prime  mixture  gradually,  folding  in  carefully; 

add  lemon  juice.   Pile  lightly  in  buttered  pudding  dish.   Bake 

20  minutes  in  slow  oven.    (Place  pudding  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 

water  while  baking.) 

Serve  cold  with  boiled  custard. 

Peach  Cobbler 

2  cups  flour  %  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar  8  peaches 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  J4  teaspoon  salt 

6  tablespoons  fat  |/^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.    Cut  in  fat,  add  milk  and  mix 

lightly.   Toss  on  floured  board  and  pat  into  shape. 

Peel  and  slice  peaches.  Add  sugar  mixed  with  salt  and  spiees. 

Place  in  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish.   Cover  with  dough 

and  bake  in  moderate  oven  %  of  an  hour. 

Peanut  Brittle  Trifle 

Whip  1  cup  thick  cream  \mtil  light.  Fold  in  gradually  |4 
pound  peanut  brittle  which  has  been  passed  through  meat 
chopper.  Add  1  cup  cooked  rice  (dry  and  flaky),  1  cup 
shredded  pineapple,  and  6  or  8  chopped  marshmallows.  Add  2 
tablespoons  pineapple  juice  and  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Pile 
lightly  into  glass  serving  dish,  decorate  with  candied  cherries 
and  serve  very  cold. 

Tutti-Frutti 

1  cup  maraschino  cherries  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  marshmallows  3  cups  whipping  cream 

1  cup  nuts  %  cup  sugar 

Whip  the  cream,  add  cherries,  marshmallows,  nuts,  sugar  and 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOU)  HELPS  91 

vanilla.  Put  in  ice  box  and  freeze  fca:  4  hours.  Serves  twelve 
people. 

Baked  Walnut  Custard 

Beat  four  eggs  slightly.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar,  onc'fourth 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  quart  of  milk  and  threcfoxirths  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts.  Pour  into  greased  ramekins.  Place  ramekins 
in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake. 

Fruit  Cream  of  Wheat  Custard 

1  cup  cooked  cream  of  2  eggs 

wheat  y^  cup  sugar 

lJ/2  cups  milk  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  cream  of  wheat  with  milk,  beaten  eggs  and  sugar.  Add 
vanilla.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered  pan  and  bake  onchalf 
hour  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  cream  and  blackberries 
or  any  other  fresh  fruit  in  season. 

Caramel  Custard 

One  cup  granulated  sugar  caramelized.  Stir  into  one  quart 
hot  milk  until  dissolved;  pour  hot  mixture  into  three  or  four 
well  beaten  eggs,  add  pinch  of  salt  to  eggs  and  bake. 

Orange  Charlotte 

Y^  package  of  gelatine  1  cup  orange  juice 

%  cup  cold  water  Juice  of  1  lemon  and  grated 

Yl  cup  hot  water  rind  of  lemon  and  1  orange 

1  cup  sugar  1  pint  whipping  cream 
Pour  cold  water  on  gelatine,  then  add  boiling  water,  sugar, 
orange,  lemon  juice,  also  grated  rind.   Put  pan  on  ice  and  stir 
lightly  until  it  begins  to  thicken.    Stir  in  the  whipped  cream. 
Put  in  mould  to  harden. 

Brown  Betty 

2  cups  sliced  apples  Y^  cup  melted  butter 

Yl  cup  sugar  Juice  and  grated  rind  of 

Y^  teaspoon  cinnamon  one  lemon 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  Yl  cup  water  or  fruit  juice 

Alternate  layers  of  sHced  apples,  bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  dn- 


92  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

namon   mixed,   and   lemon   juice   until   the   baking    dish    is 
filled.    Cover  with  crumbs  and  pour  water  over  all.    Cover 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and 
oncquarter  of  an  hour  longer  with  the  dish  uncovered. 
Serve  hot  with  Hard  Sauce. 
Peaches  or  rhubarb  may  be  used  according  to  season. 

Baked  Apple 

6  large  apples  J/2  cup  water 

Yl  cup  sugar 

Core  the  apples,  place  them  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  on  the 

sugar  and  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender  (about 

one'half  hour).  Baste  every  five  minutes. 

Pears  and  peaches  may  be  baked  in  the  same  manner. 

Baked  Stuffed  Apples 

6  large  baking  apples  Chopped  nuts 

1  cup  chopped  cranberries  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sliced  bananas 

1  cup  sugar  (or  maple 

syrup) 
Remove  the  core  of  the  apples  and  scoop  out  part  of  the  pulp 
leaving  a  shell  of  about  three-quarter  inch  thickness. 
Mix  the  chopped  fruits,  sugar  and  cinnamon  together  and  fill 
the  cavities  in  the  apples.   Cover  tops  with  chopped  nuts  and 
bake  imtil  tender  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  cold  or  warm. 

Bread  Pudding 

12  slices  stale  white,  raisin  J4  cup  currants 

or  whole  wheat  bread  Vi  cup  sugar  (brown  or 

y^  cup  butter  white) 

4  eggs  Pinch  salt 

1  quart  milk 

Cut  the  crust  off  the  bread.  More  than  one  kind  of  bread  may 
be  used  in  the  same  pudding.  Butter  the  bread  thick. 
Place  a  layer  of  bread  in  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  on  a  few 
raisins  and  moisten  with  the  eggs,  milk,  sugar  and  salt  beaten 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  93 

together.   Cover  with  another  layer  of  bread  and  so  until  the 

dish  is  full. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  to  slow  oven  for  an  hour. 

Serve  hot,  plain  or  with  Hard  Sauce. 

Vanilla  Souffle 

5  eggs  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

4  tablespoons  powdered  Pinch  of  salt 

sugar 
Beat  the  yolks  and  the  white  separately;  the  whites  so  they 
will  stand  alone.   Add  the  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt  to  the  yolks 
and  beat  in.   Add  the  whites  to  the  yolks  and  beat  together 
well. 

Warm  the  baking  dish  and  pour  in  the  mixture.  Bake  in  the 
souffle  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  for  five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven  (325  degrees  F.). 

Souffle  must  be  eaten  immediately.  It  will  fall  if  allowed  to' 
stand  or  chill. 

Chocolate  Souffle 

Use  two  ounces  grated  chocolate  melted  in  one'half  cup  water 
and  cool.  Add  to  the  souffle  in  place  of  vanilla  flavoring. 

Tapioca  Cream 

1/3  cup  tapioca  |4  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  orange 

1  egg  or  almond  flavor 

Yl  cup  sugar 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  tapioca,  sugar  and 

salt.  Stir  constantly  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  egg  and  pour  into  it  gradually  one'half  cup 

of  the  milk  mixture,  stir  in  thoroughly. 

Turn  this  into  the  double  boiler  and  stir  all  vigorously.   Cook 

until  a  thick  custard  is  formed. 

Beat  the  egg  white  stiff.   Remove  the  custard  from  the  boiler, 

add  the  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  whites.    Chill  and  serve  as 

dessert  or  as  a  child's  supper  dish. 

Serves  six. 


94  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Fig  Pudding 

Yz  pound  figs  2  egg  whites 

J4  cup  powdered  sugar 

Soak  the  figs  for  two  hours  and  then  cook  in  a  little  water  for 

fifteen  minutes  or  until  soft.  Mash  the  figs  to  a  pulp. 

Beat  the  whites  and  sugar  together  very  stiff.   Stir  in  the  figs 

and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Serve  hot 

If  dates  are  used  instead  of  figs,  the  dates  need  not  be  soaked 

previously. 

Old  Fashioned  Plum  Pudding 

Yl  cup  chopped  almonds  1  tablespoon  candied  lemon 

Yl  cup  chopped  citron  peel 

Yl  cup  chopped  apple  J4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yl  cup  flour  34  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cup  currants  2  cups  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  raisins  1  cup  suet 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients.  Chop  the  suet  and  the  apple  fine 

and  add  the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately.    Add 

one-half  cup  brandy  if  available. 

Stir  the  two  mixtures  together  and  blend  well.    Turn  into  a 

tightly  covered  melon  mold  and  steam  for  six  hours  at  a  con- 

stant  temperature. 

The  pudding  will  keep  indefinitely  and  if  made  for  Christmas, 

should  be  made  a  few  weeks  ahead,  as  aging  improves  the 

flavor. 

Marshmallow  Pineapple  Dessert 

1  poimd  marshmallows  Yl  pint  cream 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  Yl  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Pour  the  juice  of  canned  pineapple  over  the  marshmallows, 

cut  in  fourths. 

Cut  the  pineapple  into  pieces  and  add  to  the  marshmallows 

and  liquor.   Allow  to  stand  for  three  or  more  hours. 

Fold  in  the  cream,  whipped  stiff,  and  stir  in  the  nuts.    Chill 

and  serve. 

Serves  eight. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  9? 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

1/3  cup  commeal  1  teaspoon  ginger 

Yz  cup  dark  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

5  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Scald  the  milk.  Pour  it  slowly  on  the  commeal  and  cook  for 
twenty  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  molasses,  ginger,  salt 
and  cinnamon.  Set  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  baking  dish  and  bake  for 
two  hours.  Serve  with  cream. 

Prune  Whip 

1  cup  prunes  3  egg  whites 

J4  cup  confectioners'  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  the  prunes  over  night  in  cold  water. 

Cook  until  soft  (about  one'half  hoxir),  stone  and  mash  to  a 

pulp. 

Heat  the  pulp  with  the  sugar  in  a  double  boiler  for  ten 

minutes.   Cool.   Beat  the  egg  whites  very  stiff  and  when  tibe 

prune  mixture  is  cool,  add  the  whites  and  the  vanilla.    Serve 

with  whipped  cream. 

Any  fruit  may  be  made  into  whip.    Nuts  and  marshmallows 

may  be  added  to  the  prune  whip  also. 

Chestnut  SoufiFle 

1  cup  chestnuts  Yl  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  3  egg  whites 
Yl  cup  sugar 

Boil  the  chestnuts,  drain  and  mash.    Mix  the  sugar  with  the 
flour,  add  the  chestnuts  and  then  gradually  add  the  milk. 
Cook  for  five  minutes  and  stir  constantly. 
Beat  the  egg  whites  stiff  and  fold  into  the  mixture.   Bake  in 
greased  individual  molds  until  firm. 

Paradise  Pudding 

J4  Ih.  blanched  almonds  1  do2.  candied  cherries 

1  doz.  marshmallows  Yl  dos;.  macaroons 

Cut  fine  and  stand  aside  in  a  cool  place.  Dissolve  a  package  of 
lemon  Jello  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  When  cold  whip  to  the 


9<S  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

consistency  of  whipped  cream.  Fold  in  one  cup  of  whipped 
cream,  the  cut  fruit  and  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar.  Turn  into 
a  square  pan  and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Serve  in  slices. 

Commeal  Souiffle 

Cook  threc'fourths  cup  commeal  (white)  in  one  pint  sweet 
milk  until  well  thickened.  Add  one-half-  teaspoon  salt  and 
remove  from  fire.  When  cold  beat  in  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
last,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  earthen  dish,  well 
heated  and  buttered.  When  light  and  nicely  browned,  serve 
at  once  from  baking  dish.  This  should  bake  about  fortyfive 
minutes. 

Sally  Limn 

Sally  Lunn  is  an  old  southern  dish  and  delicious  for  breakfast. 
Cream  Y^  cup  butter  with  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Add  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  lYi  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  and  Yl  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  in  glass  dish  or 
muffin  rings. 


SAUCES 

Hard  Sauce 

J4  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  powdered,  brown  or  Grated  lemon  rind 

maple  sugar 
Cream  the  butter  well  and  work  in  the  sugar  and  flavoring. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  until  needed.   Cream  and  more  sugar  may 
be  added  for  more  sauce. 


Foamy  Sauce 

1  cup  confectioners'  sugar  Hot  water 

Yl  cup  butter  Vanilla 

1  egg 

Cream  the  butter  and  work  in  the  sugar;  add  the  beaten  egg, 

and  about  two  tablespoons  hot  water.   Heat  and  mix  over  hot 

water  until  the  sauce  thickens.   Add  vanilla  and  serve. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  97 

Chocolate  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  2  squares  hitter  chccc-ate 

1  cup  water  Vanilla 

3  tablespoons  rich  cream 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  for  five  minutes  and 

let  partly  cool.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  stir  in. 

Add  vanilla. 

Heat  over  hot  water  and  when  thickening  add  the  cream. 

If  to  be  used  as  a  sauce  over  ice  cream,  make  with  water 

instead  of  cream. 


Thick  Caramel  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  milk 

]/4  cup  water  Vanilla 

Cook  the  sugar  and  water  together  in  a  saucepan  imtil  they 
are  a  golden  brown.  Heat  the  butter  and  cornstarch  together 
in  another  pan  and  then  combine  the  two  adding  scalded  milk 
and  last  the  vanilla.  Stir  constantly  and  make  smooth  and 
creamy. 

A  less  rich  sauce  may  be  made  with  one  cup  hot  water  instead 

of  milk. 

Serve  on  bread  pudding,  Brown  Betty,  etc. 

Lemon  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  vanilla,  but  then  use 

only  hot  water  and  no  milk. 


Apples  in  Casserole 

Peel  and  remove  core  from  six  tart  apples.  Place  in  casserole; 
mix  one  cup  sugar,  one'half  cup  butter,  one  cup  flour  and  one 
teaspoon  cinnamon  into  crumbly  mass;  sprinkle  on  apples. 
Pour  over  all  onC'half  cup  water;  place  in  oven  and  bake  with 
cover  on  till  apples  are  tender  but  not  broken.  Remove  cover 
and  brown  slightly.   Serve  hot. 


98  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Sauce 

To  one  pint  of  blackberry  juice  add  three  or  four  tablespoons 

cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.    Add  sugar  to  taste  and 

butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.   Thicken  with  tablespoon  of  flour 

and  cook  till  thick  as  desired  and  serve  warm. 

Any  other  berries  may  be  used  for  this  roll  and  is  just  as 

successful. 

ICE  CREAMS  AND  FROZEN 
PUDDINGS 

In  Making  Desserts  in  a  Mold: 

Have  the  mold  very  cold  before  pouring  in  the  mixture. 

Fill  very  full  so  that  mixture  will  be  forced  down  into  the  mold 

when  the  cover  is  put  on. 

Smooth  the  top  bejfore  putting  on  Hd  and  cover  the  mixture 

with  two  layers  of  waxed  paper,  this  will  help  to  hold  the 

hd  tight. 

Completely  bury  the  mold  in  a  mixture  of  three  parts  ice  to 

one  part  coarse  salt    Table  salt  will  not  give  results  and  is 

wasteful. 

To  Prepare  Desserts  in  the  P^ns  of  Iceless  Re- 
frigerators: 

Thin  ice  creams  with  a  small  percentage  of  cream  are  not 

satisfactory  in  iceless  machines  since  there  is  no  opportunity 

for  stirring  the  mixture  and  breaking  up  the  Httle  ice  crystalsL 

Rich  ice  creams  are  especially  good  when  frozen  in  these  pans. 

Beat  the  cream  very  stiff  and  add  a  small  amount  of  dissolved 

gelatine  to  overcome  the  formation  of  ice  crystals. 

All  desserts  that  are  packed  in  ice  ordinarily,  may  be  made 

satisfactorily  in  an  iceless  refrigerator. 

Desserts  should  freeze  in  from  five  to  seven  hours  vmless  the 

machine  is  set  below  the  average  ice-cube  forming  temperature. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  99 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  gelatine 

1  cup  sugar  V/z  pints  heavy  cream 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  teaspoons  vanilla 
2  egg  yolks 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  the  sugar  and  the 

flour  mixed  together.    Cook  fifteen  minutes.    Add  the  yolks, 

beaten,  and  cook  for  two  minutes  more  or  tintil  the  spoon 

coats. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  tablespoon  cold  water  for  five  minutes. 

Add  the  gelatine  to  the  milk  mixture  and  then  chill. 

Whip  the  cream  stiff  and  fold  into  the  cold  mixture.  Add  the 

vanilla  and  a  speck  of  salt.    The  salt  brings  out  the  flavor. 

Pour  into  refrigerator  tray  and  stir  every  half  hour  xmtil  the 

ice  cream  starts  to  stiffen. 


Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

Melt  three  ounces  of  chocolate  in  oocquarter  cup  hot  watef 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  to  the  vanilla  ice  cream  mixture. 


Crushed  Fruit  for  Ice  Cream 

If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy,  add  oncquarter  teiaspoon  more 

gelatine  to  recipe. 

If  the  fruit  is  bland,  add  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Mix  the  fruit  with  the  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  as  much  or  little  as 

desired. 


Apricot  Marshmallow  Ice  Cream 

Drain  one  can  apricots,  put  through  food  chopper.  Combine 
with  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  one-half 
cup  of  sugar.  Cook  five  minutes.  Drop  in  ten  marshmallows, 
cut  in  pieces,  when  cool  fold  in  one  cup  cream  whipped.  Place 
in  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt. 


100  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Fudge  Sauce  for  Ice  Cream 

V/z  cups  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

2  squares  bitter  chocolate  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  about  two  minutes  and  add  the  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  *Stir  smooth. 
Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  to  the  syrup;  cook  two  or  three 
minutes  and  add  vanilla. 

Serve  hot  over  ice  cream. 


Butterscotch  Sauce 

1  cup  brown  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

4  tablespoons  butter  ]/i  cup  water 

1  teaspoon   cornstarch  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  cold  water,  mix  with  the  sugar 

and  boil  all  in  a  saucepan  until  a  soft  ball  forms  when  a  drop 

of  sauce  is  put  in  cold  water.   Serve  hot  over  ice  cream. 


Marshmallow  Sauce 

Yz  pound   marsh  mallows  ^  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  water  J4  cup  milk 

Stir  the  marshmallows  with  the  water  in  a  double  boiler 

until  smooth. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  milk  until  the  syrup  threads.  When  nearly 

cold,  beat  until  thick  and  white.    Stand  in  boiling  water  and 
stir  until  thin  enough  to  pour. 

Pour  the  syrup  over  the  melted  marshmallows  and  beat  the 
two  together.   Serve  hot  over  ice  cream. 


Lemon  Water  Ice 

1  teaspoon  gelatine  2  cups  sugar 

4  cups  boiling  water  Grated  lemon  rind 

^  cup  lemon  juice 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  101 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  tablespoon  cold  water  for  five  min- 

utes.  Boil  the  sugar  in  the  hot  water  for  twenty  minutes  and 

add  the  gelatine. 

When  cool,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  gratings,  strain  and 

freeze  either  in  ice  or  in  mechanical  refrigerator. 

In  freezing  an  ice,  turn  the  freezer  for  five  minutes,  let  the 

ice.  stand  for  five  minutes  and  turn  again  for  five  minutes. 

Repeat  until  the  whole  is  frozen. 

Pineapple  Mousse 

2  cups  canned  shredded  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

pineapple  and  juice  2  cups  cream 

f^  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  gelatine 

Heat  the  pineapple,  add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  the  gela' 
tine  which  has  been  soaked  for  five  minutes  in  two  tabic 
spoons  cold  water. 

Cool  the  mixture.  When  it  starts  to  thicken,  fold  in  the 
cream  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  refrigerator  pans  and  freeze 
without  stirring. 

Nesselrode  Pudding 

Add  to  two  quarts  of  vanilla  ice  cream  mixture 

J/2  cup  marrons  chopped  1  tablespoon  chopped  pC' 

J4  cup  marron  syrup  cans  or  walnuts 

1  teaspoon   citron 

Yz  cup  chopped  red  maras' 

chino  cherries 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  add  to  the  ice  cream 
mixture.    Do  not  freeze  too  hard. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  with  a  little  marron 
syrup  or  syrup  from  cherries. 

Biscuit  Tortoni 

Yz  cup  walnuts 

6  macaroons 

1  quart  vanilla  ice  cream 

Crush  the  nuts  and  macaroons  as  fine  as  possible.   Mix  with 

the  ice  cream  and  freeze  in  refrigerator  pans. 

UBRARY 
UlSIVERSITY  OF  CAUFORNU 


102  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Baked  Alaska 

Make  vanilla  ice  cream  in  a  melon  mold. 
Beat  four  egg  whites  very  stiff  with  one  cup  confectioners 
sugar.   Cover  the  ice  cream  with  this  meringue  and  put  in  a 
very  hot  oven  just  long  enough  to  brown  the  meringue. 
The  meringue  may  be  put  onto  the  ice  cream  in  fancy  form 
with  a  pastry  bag. 


Yz  cup  confectioners  sugar 
54  teaspoon  maraschino 
syrup 


Frozen  Pudding 

1  pint  whipped  cream 

12  stale  macaroons 

Yz  cup  shced  candied  pine* 

apple 
J4  pound  crystallized  chef 

lies  or  other  crystallized 

fruit 

Mix  all  together  thoroughly  and  pack  in  a  mold.  Pack  in  ice 
and  let  stand  for  four  hours. 

Such  puddings  may  be  packed  in  snow  in  the  winter  and  the 
freezing  will  be  just  as  even  as  with  ice.  A  Httle  coarse  salt 
will  hasten  the  freezing. 


Frozen  Rice  Pudding 

4  egg  yolks 
2  cups  milk 
1  cup  cooked  rice 


3  tablespoons  sugar 
1  cup  whipped  cream 
1  tablespoon  vanilla 


Heat  the  milk  and  egg  yolks  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  con' 
stantly  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  flame  and  add  vanilla, 
sugar  and  the  rice  put  through  the  food  chopper. 
When  cold  add  the  whipped  cream.  Turn  into  a  tightly 
covered  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  until  frozen.  Re' 
quires  about  one  hour. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  103 

Banana  Ice 

Juice  of  3  oranges  2  cups  of  sugar 

Juice  of  3  lemons  3  cups  of  water 

3  bananas,  mashed 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  water.  Mix  fruit  juices,  and  last,  mash 
bananas  and  mix  ingredients  together.  Put  in  freezer  and  turn 
freezer  until  the  ice  is  hard.  Let  stand  until  ready  to  serve. 
Serves  eight  people. 

Frozen  Peaches 

Take  one  can  of  peaches,  remove  paper  wrapper  and  pack  in 
bucket  of  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours.  Place  can  upright  in 
bucket.  To  serve  open  can  by  dipping  can  in  hot  water. 
Slip  contents  out  on  plate.  Slice  one  half  inch  thick  and 
serve  with  cream  and  salad  dressing. 

Banana  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  A  few  grains  salt 

4  ripe  bananas  lJ4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
1  cup  sugar 

Remove  skins  of  the  bananas  and  force  through  a  sieve  with 
lemon  juice.  Partly  freeze  the  remaining  ingredients  and  add 
banana'lemon  pulp.  Freeze. 

Apricot  Sherbet 

1  can  apricots  2  lemons 

1  cup  sugar  1  quart  water 

5  oranges  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Cook  sugar  and  water  to  syrup.  Rub  the  apricots  through  a 
sieve  and  mix  with  the  syrup  and  fruit  juices.  Add  the  beaten 
whites.  Put  in  a  freezer  and  when  thoroughly  chilled  add  1 
quart  of  cream  and  freeze.  Makes  three  quarts. 

Peppermint  Ice  Cream 

Yz  lb.  peppermint  sugar  stick  2  cups  milk 

candy  2  cups  heavy  cream 

%  cup  granulated  sugar 

Melt  candy  and  sugar  with  the  milk;  add  heavy  cream  and 
freeze.    Let  ripen  two  or  three  hours.   Makes  one  quart. 


Eggs 

To  test  the  freshness  of  eggs: 

A  fresh  egg  when  placed  in  a  glass  of  water  will  drop  to  the 

bottom.  A  stale  egg  will  rise  to  the  top  of  the  water. 

Try  to   cook  eggs   just  below   the  boiling   point  of  water. 

BoiUng  eggs  destroys  much  of  their  food  \dluQ  and  makes 

them  tough  and  dif&cult  to  digest. 

Putting  Down  Eggs  in  Water  Glass 

One  part  of  water  glass  to  ten  parts  of  water. 

Use  only  strictly  fresh  eggs  as  the  water  glass  will  preserve  the 

eggs  in  exactly  the  state  of  freshness  in  which  they  are  at  the 

time  they  are  put  down. 

Boil  the  water  and  allow  to  cool.    Add  to  the  water  glass, 

which  may  be  purchased  at  the  drug  store.   Stir  the  water  into 

the  water  glass  thoroughly.    Place  eggs  in  layers  in  a  stone 

crock  and  pour  over  the  liquid,  covering  the  eggs  well.   Place 

an  old  dish  on  top  of  the  eggs  to  weigh  them  down.    Keep 

in  a  cool  place. 

When  eggs  are  wanted  for  use,  take  them  out  of  the  liquid 

and  wash  them  in  fresh  water.  New  eggs  may  be  added  from 

time  to  time.   The  eggs  must  always  be  under  the  Hquid  or 

they  will  spoil. 

Four  Minute  Soft  Cooked  Eggs 

Boil  the  water,  then  slide  eggs  into  the  water  and  reduce  flame 
so  that  water  simmers  for  four  minutes.  Serve  in  egg  cups. 
Eggs  may  be  started  in  cold  water,  brought  to  the  boiling  point 
and  simmered 

104 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  105 

Hard  Cooked  Eggs 

Slide  eggs  into  boiling  water,  reduce  flame  and  allow  to  simmer 
one-half  hour  for  complete  hardness.  Serve  hot  sliced  in  two 
with  butter  or  mayonnaise. 

Eggs  au  Beurre 

Melt  about  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  slide 
in  an  egg  and  cook  at  medium  heat  until  the  white  is  firm  and 
the  edges  brown  a  little.  Turn  over  once  being  careful  not  to 
break  but  keep  the  egg  intact.  Use  more  butter  if  egg  has 
tendency  to  stick. 

Scrambled  Eggs 

3  eggs  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  milk  Pepper 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Beat  whole  eggs,  add  milk  and  salt  and  pepper.  Place  butter 
in  frying  pan,  heat  over  low  flame  and  pour  in  egg  batter. 
Allow  to  cook  until  white  begins  to  set,  then  stir  and  serve 
before  the  mass  is  dry.  Serve  on  toast  on  heated  plates.  Gar- 
nish  with  parsely. 

Fried  Eggs 

Heat  tablespoon  of  butter  or  bacon  fat  in  a  frying  pan.  Slide 
in  the  egg.  Let  fry  very  slowly,  basting  with  the  butter  or 
fat.  The  egg  is  fried  when  a  thin  white  coating  comes  over 
the  yolk. 

Shirred  Eggs 

Grease  a  small  glass  or  earthen  baking  dish  and  line  with 
bread  crumbs.  Slide  in  the  egg  cover  with  crumbs,  salt  and 
pepper  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  white  is  well  set. 
Serve  in  the  baking  dish.  Grated  cheese  may  be  mixed  with  the 
coating  of  bread  crumbs. 

Ham  and  Eggs 

If  ham  is  very  salty,  soak  in  milk  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Trim  off  half  the  fatty  edge  of  raw  ham  cut  about  oncquarter 


106  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

inch  thick.  Use  this  fat  to  grease  the  frying  pan.  Have  the 
frying  pan  very  hot,  fry  ham  quickly  on  one  side  then  on  the 
other  until  brown.  Do  not  cook  too  long  or  flavor  will  be 
destroyed. 

Slide  eggs  into  pan  with  some  ham  fat  remaining.  Baste  with 
ham  fat  and  cook  until  yolk  is  covered  with  a  thin  white  skin. 
Serve  very  hot;  placing  eggs  on  the  ham  and  garnish  with 
parsely. 

Cheese  and  Egg  Omelet 

1  loaf  stale  bread  1  cup  sweet  milk 
Y2  pound  cheese                             Pinch  salt 

3  eggs 

Butter  pan  well.  Line  with  thin  slices  of  bread,  layer  of  cheese 
sliced  thin,  then  alternate  with  layer  of  buttered  bread.  Beat 
the  three  eggs,  salt  and  milk.  Pour  over  the  top  and  bake 
10  minutes. 

Chipped  Beef  in  Scrambled  Eggs 

Yl  pound  chipped  dried  3  eggs 

beef  Yx  cup  milk 

Pour  hot  water  over  the  beef  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Pour  off  any  remaining  water. 

Mix  milk  and  whole  eggs  and  stir  into  the  beef.  Put  one 
tablespoon  butter  in  frying  pan  and  scramble  eggs  and  beef 
together. 

Serve  hot  on  toast.  No  further  seasoning  is  required  as  dried 
beef  is  very  salty. 

A  Change  from  Scrambled  Eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour  Seasoning 

1  tablespoon  butter  1    egg  for  each  person 

1  cup  milk 

Put  milk  on  to  boil.  Moisten  the  flour  and  add  it,  with 
butter  and  seasoning,  to  milk.  Cook  gently  for  a  few  minutes. 
Gently  break  the  eggs,  and  drop  in  one  by  one.  When 
cooked  serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  107 

Poached  Eggs  au  Gratin 

Butter  six  sauce  dishes,  sprinkle  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  in 
them  and  slide  one  egg  in  each.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over 
the  egg.  Place  sauce  dishes  in  a  shallow  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  set. 

Brown  for  just  a  moment  under  the  oven  flame  and  serve  hot 
on  toast. 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Beat  six  eggs,  add  salt,  pepper  and  onchalf  cup  milk.    Heat 

a  spider,  melt  in  it  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  pour  in  the 

egg  mixture.   Scramble  and  keep  flame  low  to  retain  moisture. 

Stir  in  canned  tomato  and  one-quarter  pound  grated  American 

cheese. 

Serve  hot  on  toast. 

Eggs  Southern  Style 

6  eggs  1  tablespoon  chopped  green 

1  cup  tomato  peppers 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  Butter 

1  can  mushrooms 

1  tablespoon  chopped  red 

peppers 
Stew  the  onions  and  chopped  peppers  in  butter  in  a  spider. 
Add  the  tomato  and  mushrooms.    When  heated,  add  the 
beaten  eggs  and  scramble. 
Serve  on  toast  as  a  lunch  dish. 

Cold  Deviled  Eggs 

4  hard  cooked  eggs 

Slice  eggs  in  two  lengthwise  and  remove  yolk.    Chill  the 

whites.    Cream  yolks  into  one  tablespoon  butter,  season  with 

one'half  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  onchalf  teaspoon  salt,  one' 

half  teaspoon  vinegar  and  onchalf  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

sauce.  Roll  into  balls  and  replace  in  each  half  egg  white.  Serve 

as  a  luncheon  dish  on  lettuce  leaves. 

For  picnics,  replace  yolk  with  paste  and  cover  over  with  white 

of  egg.    Fasten  in  original  shape  with  toothpick.    Wrap  in 

waxed  paper. 


108  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Eggs  au  Gratin 

6  hard  cooked  eggs  J4  cup  bread  crumbs  or 

y^  cup  grated  cheese  cracker  crumbs 

2  cups  white  sauce. 
Shell  the  hard  cooked  eggs,  cut  in  two  and  cut  off  a  little  from 
each  tip  so  that  the  halves  will  stand  up.   Remove  the  yolks 
and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  butter,  cheese  and  a  little  dry 
mustard. 

Refill  the  empty  white  with  this  paste;  sprinkle  on  more  grated 
cheese,  seasoning  and  bread  crumbs.   Place  in  a  shallow  but' 
tered  dish  and  pour  over  the  white  sauce.     (Tomato  sauce 
may  be  used  instead.) 
Serve  hot  on  toast.  Rye  bread  toast  is  very  agreeable. 

Curried  Eggs 

Yz  teaspoon  curry  powder  2  tablespoons  floxir 

6  hard  boiled  eggs  Salt  and  pepper. 

1  cup  milk 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a  spider,  add  salt  and  pepper 

and  curry  powder.    Brown  the  flour  and  pour  in  the  milk 

slowly.  Dice  the  hard  eggs  and  baste  with  the  hot  sauce  in  the 

spider. 

Serve  hot  on  toast. 

Asparagus  Omelet 

(Chopped  chicken,  veal  or  ham  may  be  used  in  place  of 

asparagus) . 

1  can  asparagus  1  cup  white  sauce 

Make  a  plain  omelet. 

Drain  and  wash  the  asparagus  and  add  white  sauce.    Spread 

half  this  mixture  in  the  center  of  the  omelet,  fold  over  and 

pour  remaining  half  over  as  a  sauce.    Garnish  with  chopped 

parsley. 

Cheese  Omelet 

When  making  the  Plain  Omelet,  add  two  tablespoons  grated 
American  cheese  to  the  yolks.  Before  folding  over,  sprinkle 
with  one  tablespoon  cheese. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  109 

French  Omelet 

3  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

3  tablespoons  milk 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately.   Add  milk,  salt  and  pepper 
to  the  beaten  yolks. 

Butter  a  hot  spider.  Fold  white  into  yolk  batter  and  turn  in  to 
hot  spider.    Cook  until  it  sets  and  browns  lightly.    Place 
currant  or  strawberry  jelly  in  center  of  omelet  and  fold  over. 
Serve  hot  on  a  warmed  platter. 

Spanish  Omelet 

Follow  directions  for  French  omelet. 

Make  the  following  sauce  heated  in  a  greased  spider.   Simmer 

one  tablespoon   chopped   onions,   two  tablespoons   chopped 

green   olives,   one   small   green   and   one   small   red   pepper 

chopped;  when  partially  stewed,  add  one  can  tomatoes,  two 

tablespoons   chopped   mushrooms,   salt,    paprika   and  a   fe\w| 

capers.  Cook  this  mixture  until  quite  thick. 

Pour  one'quarter  cupful  in  center  of  omelet,  fold  over  and 

pour  rest  of  sauce  over  the  omelet. 

Milk  Omelet 

4  eggs  Yi  teaspoon  salt 
J4  cup  milk  Pepper 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Beat  eggs  well.   Add  the  milk  and  seasoning.  Melt  the  butter 

in  the  spider  and  turn  in  the  egg  mixture. 

As  edges  cook,  draw  them  toward  the  center  with  a  knife 

blade.    When  whole  has  set,  fold  once  and  serve  on  a  hot 

platter. 


nSH  AND  SEAFOOD 

Fish 

Fish  must  be  perfectly  fresh  and  firm  and  must  be  kept  cool. 

Wrap  fish  in  a  damp  cloth,  then  in  paper  and  keep  on  ice. 

Thaw  frozen  fish  in  cold  water  and  use  at  once. 

Clean  a  fish  in  cold  water  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper 

to  bring  out  its  flavor. 

Trout,  mackerel,  whitefish,  salmon,  redsnapper,  cod,  halibut 

and  haddock  are  in  season  throughout  the  year. 

Oysters,  scallops  and  muscles  are  in  season  only  in  fall  and 

winter.    Soft  shell  crabs  are  in  season  in  summer. 

Broiled  Fish 

Clean  and  bone  the  fish.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
dot  with  butter.  Place  as  near  flame  as  possible  on  broiling 
rack,  flesh  side  up.  As  soon  as  flesh  starts  to  brown,  reduce 
flame  and  cook  until  white  and  firm.  Turn  on  skin  side  with 
aid  of  pancake  turner  and  broil  until  brown  and  crisp. 
Remove  to  hot  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon  and 
serve  with  parsley  butter  poured  over  the  fish. 

Parsley  Butter 

1  tablespoon  butter  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon   chopped   pars'  Pepper 

ley  Paprika 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  seasoning  and  lemon  juice.  Spread  over 
fish  directly  it  is  removed  from  fire. 

110 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  1 1 1 

Fried  Fish 

Clean  fish  and  wipe  dry.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip 
in  flour,  cracker  crumbs  or  commeal,  then  in  egg,  then  again 
in  flour.   Fry  in  deep,  hot  fat  until  brown. 

Boiled  Fish 

Cut  fish  into  slices,  rub  with  salt  and  let  stand  in  salt  for 

several  hours. 

Boil  one  quart  of  water  with  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one- 

half  teaspoon  whole  pepper,  one  tablespoon  each  chopped 

onion,  chopped  celery,  chopped  carrot. 

Drop  the  slices  of  fish  into  the  boiling  seasoned  water  and  let 

cook  slowly  until  the  fish  is  tender.   Remove  the  bones,  strain 

and  serve  on  a  platter  with  egg  sauce.    Keep  the  fish  stock 

if  desired. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Fish 

1  cup  brown  sauce 

2  egg  yolks 

Juice  of  one  lemon 

In  making  the  brown  sauce,  employ  the  fish  Hquor.  Beat  the 
egg  yolks  and  add  the  hot  sauce.  Stir  until  thick.  Stir  in  the 
lemon  juice  just  before  serving. 

Broiled  Fish 

Clean,  bone  and  salt  the  fish.    Grease  the  rack  of  the  broiler 
and  place  fish,  flesh  side  up,  on  it.   Broil  as  near  to  the  flame 
as  possible.  When  edges  crisp,  lower  the  flame  and  cook  until 
tender.  Turn  over  carefully  and  brown  on  skin  side. 
Spread  with  parsley  butter,  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

Baked  Trout 

3  to  iYz  pound  trout  1  can  tomatoes 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  chopped  onion 

1  egg  yolk  1  piece  celery  root 

Salt  the  fish  and  let  stand  for  several  hours.   Make  a  paste  of 

the  flour  with  a  little  tomato  juice.    Place  fish  in  a  dripping 


112  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

pan  with  tomatoes,  onion,  celery  root  and  butter.    Bake  for 

one-half  hour. 

Drain  and  strain  the  sauce,  thicken  with  the  beaten  yolk  of 

egg,  add  a  little  cream,  seasoning  and  serve  over  the  hot 

trout. 

Planked  Fish 

Use  a  hickory  or  oak  plank.  Have  the  fish  boned  and 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  for  five  minutes  on 
skin  side.  Then  place  on  a  heated,  greased  plank,  skin  side 
down.  Paint  with  melted  butter  and  put  in  a  hot  oven. 
Bake  until  the  fish  is  browned,  then  reduce  the  flame.  Bake 
for  fifteen  minutes  or  until  fish  is  quite  tender.  Press  mashed 
potatoes  thru  a  pastry  bag  to  form  a  trimming  around  the 
fish;  brown  well  in  the  oven,  pour  on  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
with  parsley  and  serve  on  the  plank  placed  on  a  platter. 

Baked  Mackerel 

3  tablespoons  butter  3J/2  to  4  pound  mackerel 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  J4  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onions  ]/^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  chopped   capers 
1  teaspoon  chopped  pars- 
ley 

Melt  butter.  Add  crumbs,  onions,  capers,  salt,  pepper,  and 
parsley.  Wash  the  fish  and  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Stuff 
and  tie  together.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread 
with  melted  butter. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  fifty  to  sixty  min- 
utes.   Baste  well. 

Baked  Mackerel 

1  medium  sized  mackerel  1/3  teaspoon  sak 

3  slices  bacon  Yz  small  onion,  chopped 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  1  table^xxjn  bacon, 
Y2  teaspoon  chopped  green  chopped 

pepper 
Have  the  mackerel  dressed  for  broiling. 
Mix  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  chopped  onion  and  bacon,  salt 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  113 

and  a  little  pepper.  Lay  stuffing  in  fish,  cover  with  slice  of 
bacon.  Lay  two  strips  of  bacon  on  top  of  fish,  plare  in 
baking  pan,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  basting  with  fat 
drippings. 

Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish 

Beat  one  egg  and  use  to  moisten  one  and  one-half  cups  bread 
crumbs.  Add  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  season  and  mix 
well.  Put  the  stuffing  into  the  cleaned  washed  fish  and  sew 
in  with  thread. 

Fish  Baked  on  a  Campfire 

Build  a  hot  fire  of  twigs  and  dry  wood.    Use  when  embers 

are  red  hot. 

Remove  head  and  entrails  of  fish,  also  its  large  fins  but  not 

the  tail.    Wrap  in  heavy  paper  and  place  in  the  hot  embers. 

Let  bake  for  half  an  hour  unless  fish  is  very  large. 

Rake  out  the  fish,  unwrap,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and 

serve.   The  scales  and  skin  will  cling  to  the  wrapping  paper. 

Fried  Trout 

Clean  fish  well,  washed  once  only,  drained,  salted  with  about 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  then  rolled  in  flour  and  corn-meal  (half 
of  each) .  For  2  lbs.  of  fish  take  ^  lb.  of  salt  pork,  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  fried  a  crisp  brown.  Take  pork  from  the  pan  and 
put  in  fish,  having  only  enough  fish  in  pan  to  cover  the  bot- 
tom. Fry  golden  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  hot  with  the 
salt  pork  as  a  garnish. 

Creamed  Shrimp 

Wash  and  drain  1  can  of  shrimp.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  1  tablespoon  flour  in  a  saucepan.  When  melted,  add  J/2 
pint  of  milk.  Stir  until  boiling,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  the  shrimp.   Serve  on  toast. 

Halibut  with  Tomato  Sauce 

To  one  can  of  tomatoes  add  one  onion,  bit  of  bay  leaf,  few 
peppercorns,  a  little  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  a  dash  of  red 


114  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Boil  well  together  and  strain. 
Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  spider;  add  2  tablespoons  of 
flour;  add  the  tomatoes;  pour  this  mixture  over  a  large  halibut 
steak  2  inches  thick,  and  bake  ^  of  an  hour.  Baste  often  with 
the  sauce. 


Salmon  Loaf 

1  can  salmon  (2  capsji  V/z  cups  white  sauce 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice 
%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  paprika 

}/i  cup  cracker  crumbs  1  teaspoon  salt 

Remove  spines  and  bones;  mix  with  cold  rice,  one  whole  egg, 

and  white  of  one  egg.   Add  milk  and  seasoning. 

Grease  loaf  pan,   turn   in   mixture,  cover  with  crumbs   and 

dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  400  F.  for  one-half  hour. 

Mix  remaining  yolk  with  white  sauce,  add  lemon  and  serve  as 

sauce.   Makes  an  excellent  luncheon  dish. 

Serves  six. 

Codfish  a  la  Creole 

2  cups  codfish  1  cup  canned  tomato 
4  boiled  potatoes                            2  pimentos 

Wash  salt  codfish  in  cold  water.  Bone  and  shred.  Cover  with 
tepid  water  and  allow  to  stand  until  fish  is  soft.  Drain. 
Place  alternately  layer  of  boiled  potatoes,  cold,  then  layer  of 
shredded  fish,  one-half  can  red  pimento  cut  in  squares  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  all  one  cup  canned 
tomato,  spread  cracker  crumbs  on  top  and  bake  until  crumbs 
turn  brown. 

Codfish  Balls 

Boil  codfish  thoroughly.    Boil  potatoes  and  mash  the  codfish 
and  potatoes  together.    Add  1  egg,  butter  and  cream,  enough 
salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Fr>'  in  deep  hot  fat  until  nice  and  brown.   Serve  hot. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  115 

New  England  Codfish  Balls 

1  cup  salt  codfish  lYz  cups  potatoes  (raw) 

1  egg  Pepper,  a  speck 

Yl  tablespoon  butter 

Wash  the  fish  in  cold  water.   Remove  bones  and  shred.   Pare 

and  cut  the  potatoes  in  pieces.    The  fish  and  potatoes  are 

cooked  together  in  boiling  water  until  potatoes  are  cooked 

soft.   Drain  dry,  mash  and  add  the  butter.   Beat  the  egg,  add 

the  seasoning  and  beat  all  together  until  well  mixed.    Shape 

in  balls  from  the  end  of  spoon  and  fry  until  brown  in  deep  fat. 

Drain  onto  brown  paper. 

Should  the  balls  break,  add  part  of  another  egg  to  mixture. 

Finnan  Haddie 

1  finnan  haddie  Vz  teaspoon  paprika 

lJ/2  cups  milk  4  tablespoons  butter 

1  small  onion  2  tablespoons  parsley 

1  green  pepper  J4  teaspoon  white  pepper  • 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Clean  and  dry  the  finnan  haddie.    Prepare  in  a  large  baking 

pan.    Cover  with  onion,  chopped  parsley,  chopped  pepper, 

paprika,  salt  and  pepper.    Dot  with  pieces  of  butter.    Cover 

with  milk  and  bake  in  medium  oven  for  one  hour,  basting  with 

milk.   Serve  quickly. 

Serves  six. 

Salmon  Cudet 

1  pound  can  of  salmon  2  cups  white  sauce 

1  cup  canned  peas  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  eggs  Speck  pepper 
2  cups  mashed  potatoes  Bread  crumbs 

Mash  salmon  with  fork,  removing  spine  and  bones.  Beat  one 
egg,  add  potatoes  and  seasoning.  Mix  well  with  salmon  and 
form  into  cutlets. 

Add  one  tablespoon  water  to  second  egg.  Crumb  and  egg. 
Fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  hot  peas  in  white  sauce.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 


116  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Broiled  Halibut  Steak 

Lay  halibut  in  salt  water  for  onc'half  hour.  Then  soak  in  a 
bath  of  salad  oil  and  lemon  juice  for  another  half  hour.  Dry 
and  broil  for  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  twice,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  flesh.  Spread  with  parsley  butter,  garnish  and 
serve. 


Baked  Halibut 

Place  spices  in  a  bread  pan:  allspice,  bay  leaf,  whole  pepper, 
cloves,  etc.  Rub  lemon  juice  in  fish  and  allow  to  stand  for 
an  hour  or  more.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  in 
bread  pan  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Dot  with  two 
tablespoons  of  butter.   Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


Baked  Halibut  in  Tomato  Sauce 

Boil  the  halibut  and  break  into  small  pieces.  Make  one  cup 
of  white  sauce,  adding  one  can  of  tomatoes,  strained.  Make 
the  white  sauce  very  smooth  and  stir  while  adding  tomato 
juice.  Place  the  halibut  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  cover  with 
the  sauce,  season  and  cover  with  cracker  crumbs.  Dot  with 
pepper  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  until  brown. 


Sweet-Sour  Fish 

4  pound  pike,  trout  or  other  1  cup  fish  stock 

fish  Tablespoon  seeded  raisins 

Yz  cup  vinegar  Yi  teaspoon  onion  juice 
Yz  cup  brown  sugar 

Clean,  salt  and  slice  the  fish  and  allow  to  stand  several  hours. 
Boil  the  fish  until  the  flesh  drops  away  from  the  bone.  Drain, 
reserving  the  liquid,  and  bone  the  fish.  Mix  and  cook  the 
other  ingredients.  Pour  hot  over  the  fish. 

Serve  cool. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  117 

Mustard  Sauce 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  teaspoon  hot  water, 
and  three  teaspoons  prepared  mustard.  Serve  while  hot  over 
fish. 


Horseradish  Sauce 

Mix  one'quarter  cup  grated  horseradish  with  one  tablespoon 
strong  vinegar;  add  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Beat  one'quarter  cup  of  cream  and  mix  with  other 
ingredients.  Serve  cold  with  baked  hamj,  cold  meat,  tongue, 
etc. 


Tartar  Sauce 

1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing  Yz  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

1  tablespoon  chopped  pickle  1  tablespoon  chopped  capers 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  XYi  tablespoons  tarragon 

olives  vinegar 

Stir  all  ingredients  together  until  well  mixed.   Chill  and  serve 

with  cold  fish,  fried  oysters,  filet  of  sole,  etc. 


Parsley  Butter 

1  teaspoon  fine  chopped  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

parsley  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Cream  the  butter,  add  seasoning,  lemon  juice  and  chopped 
parsley.  Spread  this  paste  over  hot  broiled  steak,  lamb  chops 
or  broiled  fish. 


Egg  Sauce 

Chop  six  hard  cooked  eggs  and  mix  with  one  cup  cream.  Heat 
in  a  double  boiler,  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  little  paprika.  Cook  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from 
flame,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  serve  hot  over  aspara' 
gus,  brussels  sprouts  or  fish. 


118  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cold  Gingersnap  Sauce  for  Fish 

4  gingersnaps  Yi  cup  raisins 

Yl  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  soup  stock  or  fish 

Yl  cup  vinegar  stock 

1  lemon,  sliced 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  together  until  they  are  smooth.  Pour 
over  the  fish  hot  and  allow  to  cool.   Serve  cold. 

Brown  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  flour  Yl  teaspo(Mi  salt 
2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

1  cup  hot  water  or  soup 
stock 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter.  Add  the  hot  liquid,  season  and 
cook  for  five  minutes.  Use  to  cover  hot  meats,  dumplings, 
vegetables,  etc. 

Mushroom  Sauce 

Drain  one  can  of  mushrooms  and  cut  into  pieces.  Use  the 
mushroom  Uquor  in  making  the  brown  sauce.  Mix  with  the 
sauce  and  serve  hot  over  meat. 

Caper  Sauce  for  Fish 

Add  one-half  cup  drained  capers  to  the  brown  sauce  and  serve 
on  fish. 

Creole  Sauce 

4  tablespoons  canned  toma'  2  tablespoons  chopped 

toes  parsley 

2  tablespoons  chopped  2  tablespoons  chopped 
onions  mushrooms 

2  tablespoons  chopped  green  Salt 

peppers  Paprika 

2  tablespoons   chopped   red  2  cups  brown  sauce 

peppers  2  tablespoons  butter 

Simmer  the  onion  in  butter,  add  the  peppers,  tomato  and 
mushrooms.  Pour  on  the  brown  sauce  and  season  very  highly. 
Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  and  ser\'e  hot  over  steak. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  119 

Tomato  Sauce 

Yl  can  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  chopped 

2  tablespoons  butter  peppers 

2  tablespoons  flour  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  chopped  1  teaspoon  sugar 

onion  Bay  leaf 

Cook  the  tomatoes  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  onion,  pepper 
and  bay  leaf.    Strain. 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter,  add  the  tomato  liquid  gradu' 
ally  and  cook  vmtil  it  thickens.  Season.  Serve  with  meat, 
spaghetti,  etc. 

Sweet-Sour  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  soup  stock 

Melt  the  sugar  m.  a  spider,  brown  the  flour  in  the  butter  and 

then  add  soup  stock  gradually.    Stir  in  the  vinegar  and  sea' 

soning.   Serve  hot  over  vegetables. 

Hollandaise  Sauce 

4  egg  yolks  J4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  butter  Pepper 

Juice  of  one  lemon  Y2  cup  water 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  egg  yolks  one  at  a  time.   Stir  well, 

add  the  juice  of  lemon  and  seasoning.    Just  before  serving, 

stir  in  the  hot  water  and  cook  until  thick  in  a  double  boiler. 

Shrimp  and  Pea  Patties 

1  cup  of  shrimps  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  of  canned  peas  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

\Yi  cups  milk  Paprika 
4  tablespoons  butter 

Drain  the  peas.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  flour  and  the 
seasoning.  Stir  constantly  while  adding  the  milk  very  slowly. 
Add  the  peas  and  then  the  shrimps,  broken  into  small  pieces. 
Be  sure  the  shrimps  are  heated  through.  Then  fill  patty  shells 
which  have  previously  been  warmed  in  the  oven.  Serve  im' 
mediately  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


120  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Shrimps  a  la  Creole 

1  quart  boiled  shrimps  Cloves 

Y%  can  small  peas  Bay  leaf 

14  can  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

Yl  can  small  mushrooms  Paprika 

1  onion 

2  tablespoons  catsup  or 
tomato  chili 

Dice  the  shrimps. 

Stew  all  the  other  ingredients  in  a  casserole  for  one-half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  then  add  the  boiled  shrimps  and 
serve  out  of  the  casserole  very  hot,  on  rounds  of  white  bread 
toast.   Garnish  with  parsley. 

Salmon  and  Crabmeat  au  Gratin 

1  small  can  salmon  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  large  can  crabmeat  Vi  teaspoon  pepper 

^Vl  cups  milk  5  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  Va,  cup  grated  cheese 

Mix  flour,  milk,  butter  and  seasoning.  Cover  bottom  of  but' 
tered  baking  dish  with  thin  layer  of  this  sauce.  Add  alter- 
nate layers  crabmeat  and  salmon  and  sauce  until  dish  is  full. 
Dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  on  cheese  and  bake  at  500  F.  for 
fifteen  minutes  or  until  cheese  is  brown. 
Serves  six. 

Panroasted  Oysters 

1  pint  oysters  Yi  cup  tomato  catsup  or 
\Yi  tablespoons  flour  canned  tomato 

Yl  teaspoon  salt  Cayenne  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  cup  milk 

Drain  the  oysters.  Melt  the  butter  or  fat,  add  seasoning  and 
tomato  catsup.  Make  a  paste  of  the  flour  with  cold  water,  mix 
with  milk,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Mix  the  milk  and  flour  with 
the  tomato  liquid.  Stir  slowly. 

Turn  off  fire.  Drop  in  oysters  and  let  stand  until  edges  curl. 
Serve  on  hot  rounds  of  toast. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  121 

Oyster  in  a  Bread  Box 

1  quart  oysters  White  sauce 

1  loaf  of  white  bread  ]/2  cup  butter 

Cut  half 'inch  lid  off  top  of  loaf  of  white  bread.    Scoop  out 

soft  bread  leaving  a  case  about  one-half  inch  thick.  Paint  the 

inside  of  the  loaf  with  melted  butter  and  dry  in  a  slow  oven. 

Chop  the  oysters.   Add  them  to  a  white  sauce  and  turn  into 

the  crisp  bread  box.  Garnish  with  parsley. 


Oyster  Croquettes 

1  quart  of  oysters  j/2  cup  cream  sauce 

Parboil  the  oysters,  drain  and  chop  them.  Cool  and  mix  with 
sauce.  Chill  on  ice  until  cold  and  firm.  Form  into  croquettes. 
Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  When  crisp 
and  browned,  drain  and  serve  with  Tartar  or  HoUandaise 
sauce. 


Oysters  en  Casserole 

1  number  2  can  of  oysters  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk  4  tablespoons  butter  or  oil 

Yz  cup  oyster  liquor  lYi  teaspoons  salt 

Yl  cup  celery  stock  Y^  teaspoon  paprika 

Ya  cup  buttered  crumbs  Ya  teaspoon  white  pepper 

4  cups  celery  1  chopped  onion 

Dice  celery.  Boil  until  tender  in  a  little  water.  Drain  this  and 
use  half  the  liquid  to  which  add  butter  or  oil,  flour  salt  and 
pepper  and  paprika.  Add  the  liquor  from  the  can  of  oysters 
and  the  milk;  keep  stirring  constantly  to  keep  smooth.  Cook 
until  sHghtly  thickened,  then  add  boiled  celery. 
Put  alternate  layers  of  oysters  and  creamed  celery  in  a  greased 
casserole.  Pour  over  remainder  of  celery  stock,  cover  with 
crumbs,  add  dabs  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

Serves  six. 


122  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Pan  Roasted  Oysters 

1  pint  small  oysters  drained  ]/&  teaspoon  red  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  |/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  Worcester'  1  cup  milk 

shire  sauce  lJ/2  tablespoons  flour 

Yz  cup  tomato  catsup 

Melt  the  butter,  add  catsup,  Worcestershire  sauce,  red  pepper 
and  salt.  Mix  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  to  milk  and  let 
boil,  then  add  catsup  mixture,  stirring  in  slowly.  Put  in  the 
oysters,  let  stand  until  edges  curl  and  serve  on  hot  toast. 

Broiled  Lobster 

Split  lobster  with  sharp  knife.  Broil  on  very  hot  fire  with 
the  flesh  side  to  the  fire.  When  thoroughly  broiled  about  ten 
minutes  season  with  salt,  paprika  and  pour  on  melted  butter. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 

2  pounds  lobster   (canned  14  cup  butter 
or  fresh                                         %  teaspoon  salt 

|/2  cup  cream  Paprika 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Break  oyster  into  pieces.  Cook  the  lobster  for  five  minutes  in 
the  melted  butter.  Add  seasoning  and  lemon  juice,  cook  for 
two  minutes,  then  add  cream  and  beaten  yolks.  Keep  stirring 
constantly  until  thick.  Serve  on  toast,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  paprika. 
Serves  six 

Shrimps  a  la  Newburg 

Use  two  pounds  of  shrimps  instead  of  lobster  in  Lobster  a  la 
Newburg. 

Creamed  Lobster 

Cup  up  two  cups  of  lobster  meat.  Make  white  sauce,  add  the 
lobster  and  cook  long  enough  to  heat  the  lobster  thoroughly. 
Season  quite  sharp  and  serve  on  rounds  of  toasted  white 
bread. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  123 

White  Sauce 

2|/2  tablespoons  butter  Yi  cup  flour 

14  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  hot  milk 

Yz  teaspoon  pepper 

Heat  frying  pan,  add  butter,  when  melted  add  flour  and  stir 

well.   When  mixture  bubbles  add  two'thirds  hot  milk  at  once 

and    the    remaining    third    gradually.     Stir    constantly    until 

smooth.   Add  salt  and  pepper. 

Lobster  Thermidor 

3  small  lobsters  Y^  teaspoon  paprika 

1  cup  cream  4  teaspoons  grated  cheese 

2  teaspoons  flour  Dash  onion  juice 
2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper  and  salt 
Yl  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Boil  lobsters,  split  when  cold  and  remove  lung  portions.    Re 

move  large  claws,  crack  and  remove  flesh  from  claws. 

Mix  butter  and  flour  in  double  boiler.    Add  seasoning,  then 

cream.   Stir  constantly  until  smooth. 

Fill  cavity  of  lobster  with  flesh  from  claws.    Pour  sauce  over 

whole  lobster,  sprinkle  cheese  on  top  and  bake  for  five  minutes 

in  hot  oven.  Cheese  should  be  delicate  brown. 

Serves  s^. 

Newburg  Sauce  for  Shrimp  or  Lobster 

4  egg  yolks  !4cup  cooking  sherry 
1  cup  milk                                      Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  cream 

Beat  the  yolks  light.  Add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  cook 
until  thick  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  and  keep  smooth.  Serve 
with  seafoods,  very  hot. 


Pepper  Relish 

1  do2.  red  peppers  16  medium  sized  onions 

1  do?,  green  peppers 

Clean  peppers  and  soak  over  night  in  clear  water;  next  day 
drain  and  chop  all  in  a  food  chopper.  Pour  boiling  water  over 
them  and  let  stand  15  minutes.    Drain  and  add: 

1  qt.  vinegar  Small  quantity  of  mustard 

lYi  tbsps.  salt  seed  and  celery  seed 

2Y2  cups  white  sugar 
Cook  15  minutes. 


Orange  Marmalade 

Cut  ends  from  five  good  sized  oranges;  quarter  oranges  and 

cut  in  very  thin  shces. 

To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three  pints  cold  water  and  let 

stand  uncovered  in  earthen  jar  for  24  hours. 

Put  over  fire  and  boil  rapidly  45  minutes. 

Remove  from  fire  and  let  stand  24  hours  more. 

Now  weigh  again,  and  to  each  pound  add  one  pound  sugar. 

Now  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons.    Let  boil  45  minutes,  or 

until  it  jellies,  and  store  in  glasses. 


Peach  Conserve 

15  peaches  1  cup  almonds  or  favorite 

1  pint  can  pineapple  nut  meats 

"hYl  cups  sugar 

124 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  125 

Chop  peaches  and  pineapple,  add  sugar,  let  stand  one  hour. 
Cook  slowly  45  minutes  then  add  nut  meats  and  cook  10 
minutes  longer,  turn  into  sterihsied  jars  or  glasses  and  seal  cold, 
cover  with  paraffin.  When  fresh  pineapple  is  in  season  it  is 
most  preferable. 

Chili  Sauce 

Yl  bushel  tomatoes  6  cups  sugar 

Yl  peck  onions  1^  cups  salt 

6  green  peppers  2  hands  full  whole  cloves 

4  red  peppers  2  5c  boxes  cinnamon 

6  bunches  celery  2  tablespoons  ground  red 

10  cups  vinegar  pepper 

4  tablespoons  ground  muS' 

tard 
Tie  cinnamon  and  cloves  in  cheese  cloth  bag.  Boil  all  together 
for  six  hours. 

Pepper  Relish 

12  green  peppers  12  large  onions 

12  red  peppers  1  stock  of  large  celery. 

Chop  fine  green  peppers  and  also  the  red  peppers,  onions, 

celery.   Then  pour  over  boiling  water  and  let  stand  five  min' 

utes  and  drain.    Remove  seeds  from  peppers. 

2c  mixed  spice,  tie  in  a  sack  2  cups  sugar 

4  tablespoons  salt  3  cups  vinegar 

Boil  vinegar  and  spice,  salt,  sugar,  green  peppers,  red  peppers, 

onions,  celery.  Boil  all  together  about  5  minutes  and  then  put 

in  jars  and  seal. 

Pepper  Relish 

6  green  peppers  \Yz  pints  of  vinegar 

6  red  peppers  \Yl  teaspoons  salt 

7  small  onions  2  cupfuls  of  sugar 

Grind  peppers  and  onions  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them. 
Let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain;  add  sugar,  salt  and 
vinegar.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  seal.  You  will  find  this  a 
very  appetising  dish  when  meat  and  potatoes  are  served. 


126  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Peach  Conserve 

15  peaches  3j/2  cups  sugar 

1  pint  canned  pineapple  1  cup  almonds 

Chop  peaches  and  pineapple;  add  sugar  and  let  stand  one 
hour.  Cook  slowly  45  minutes;  then  add  blanched  almonds 
and  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Turn  into  sterilized  glasses  and 
when  cold  cover  with  melted  paraffin. 


Cranberry  and  Apple  Sauce 

1  cup  cranberries  %  cup  sugar   (more  if 

1  cup  apple  (diced)  sweeter  sauce  is  desired) 

1  cup  water 

Place  the  apple  in  the  pot,  the  cranberries  over  the  apples,  and 
the  water  (the  water  should  not  reach  to  more  than  half  the 
depth  of  the  fruit).  Cover  closely  and  place  on  moderate 
flame.  After  the  berries  have  commenced  to  pop  open,  stir 
sugar  into  sauce,  and  then  stir  mixture  occasionally  xintil  berries 
are  all  mashed  and  sauce  is  thick.  This  is  dehghtful  served 
with  meat  or  vegetables.  The  apples  take  away  the  extreme 
tartness  of  the  berries  and  the  berries  give  the  apples  piquancy. 
More  or  less  of  either  fruit  may  be  used. 


Graj>e  Conserve 

2  quarts  stemmed  grapes  3  oranges 

1/4  pounds  of  raisins  j/2  pound  nuts 

The  grapes  should  not  be  over-ripe.  Wash  grapes  and  sepa' 
rate  pulp  from  the  skins.  Cook  pulp  until  soft  and  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Remove  pulp  and  juice  from  oranges  and 
add  to  the  grape  skins,  pulp  and  raisins.  Measure  and  add 
equal  amount  of  sugar.  Simmer  until  ready  to  jell.  Add  nuts 
in  broken  pieces. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  127 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Cook  until  soft  two  quarts  of  cranberries,  after  being  picked 
over  and  washed,  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water.  The 
berries  will  burst  as  soon  as  soft  and  should  not  be  cooked 
longer  than  necessary  to  soften  them.  Strain  juice  through  a 
jelly  bag.  Measure  the  juice  and  heat  it  to  the  boiling  point. 
Add  one  cup  sugar  to  two  cups  of  juice;  stir  until  sugar  is 
dissolved.   Boil  for  five  minutes,  skiin  and  pour  into  moulds. 


Green  Grape  Jelly 

1    peck    green    grapes    (not 

ripe) 
1  slice  candied  pineapple 
Boil  till  it  jells. 


Half  and  half  (5050)  liquid 

and  sugar 
1  small  can  white  corn  syrup 


Fruit  Conserve 

24  peaches  8  large  tart  apples 

24  blue  plums  Juice  and  pulp  of  2  oranges 

2  lbs.  red  grapes  Juice  and  pulp  of  1  lemon 

Peel  peaches  and  apples  and  cut  into  12  to  14  pieces.  Stone 
plums  and  cut  in  quarters.  Seed  grapes  and  cut  in  half.  Mix 
all  together  and  add  2  cups  of  sugar  to  1  cup  of  fruit.  Cook 
until  fruit  looks  clear  and  thick,  about  a  half  hour. 


Apple  Catsup 

4j/4  lbs.  chopped  apples 
2J/2  lbs.  sugar 
1  pint  vinegar 
Boil  till  thick. 


1    tablespoon   cinnamon, 
cloves  and  salt 


128  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Canned  Peppers  with  Tomatoes 

1  bushel  red  and  green  pep'  Yi  bushel  tomatoes 

pers,  sweet 

Scald  tomatoes  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  granite  pan 
and  cook  tomatoes  for  15  minutes,  then  add  peppers  that  have 
been  washed  and  dried  and  cut  lengthwise  and  seeds  removed. 
Add  salt  to  suit  taste  and  cook  till  done,  then  seal  in  jars 
while  hot.  Cook  up  half  amount  at  a  time  if  pan  is  not  large 
enough.  String  beans  are  very  nice  done  this  same  way. 


Tomato  Marmalade 

Select  four  quarts  of  firm  ripe  tomatoes.  Peel  and  slice  thin. 
Wash  six  lemons,  slice  and  remove  seeds,  leaving  the  peel  on. 
Put  in  sauce  pan  with  the  tomatoes  and  lemons,  one  cup  seeded 
raisins  and  four  pounds  sugar.  Cook  slowly  from  one  to  one 
and  onc'half  hours  until  mixture  is  thick  like  marmalade.  Put 
in  sterilised  glasses  and  cover  with  paraffin. 


Strawberry  and  Pineapple  Jam 

1  pineapple  4  cups  sugar 

1  quart  strawberries 

Pare  and  cut  pineapple  into  small  pieces.  Add  sugar  and  let 
stand  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  about  4  hours.  Cook  until 
tender,  about  45  minutes,  using  low  flame.  Add  strawberries 
which  have  been  washed  and  hulled,  and  cook  15  minutes 
after  berries  have  started  to  boil.  Turn  into  sterilized  glasses 
and  when  cool  cover  with  melted  paraffin.  Or  turn  into  small 
sterilized  jars,  Yi  pint  size  and  seal  at  once. 
This  recipe  makes  about  6  jelly  glasses. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  129 

Stewed  Green  Cucumbers 

3  medium  or  2  large  cucum*  1  tablespoon  flour 

bers  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

Peel  cucumbers;  cut  lengthwise  in  half  or  quarters;  remove 
seeds.  Cook  in  boiling  salt  water  until  tender.  Drain.  In  a 
frying  pan  melt  butter,  add  flour,  then  cucumbers.  Add  sugar 
and  vinegar.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  longer. 


Peach,  Cherry  and  Raspberry  Marmalade 

Two  boxes  red  raspberries,  one  box  sour  cherries,  washed  and 
stoned,  and  same  weight  of  peaches,  chopped  into  small  pieces. 
Weigh  all  together  and  use  same  amount  sugar  as  fruit.  Cook 
together  slowly  until  thick.  Fill  glasses  while  hot  and  cover 
with  para£n  after  jelly  has  cooled 


Pear  Honey 

Peel  and  core  ripe  pears.  Grind  in  a  meat  chopper.  Measure 
pulp  and  add  an  equal  amoimt  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  up 
quickly.    Seal  in  sterilised  jars. 


Tomato  and  Apple  Relish 

12  tomatoes  2  pounds  sugar 

12  apples  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  onions  1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  pints  vinegar 

Cook  about  three  hours,  or  until  very  thick;  then  seal. 


no  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Pepper  Relish 

5  dozen  sweet  peppers  Yi  gallon  cider  vinegar 

(green  and  red)  2  pounds  light  brown  sugar 

4  dozen  onions  4  tablespoons  celery  seed 
3  large  stalks  celery 

Grind  all  ingredients.  Put  vinegar  and  sugar  in  a  kettle.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil.  Then  drop  in  other  ingredients  and  cook 
one  hour.   Put  in  jars  and  seal. 


Cranberry  Fancy 

Boil  one  quart  cranberries  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover. 
When  nearly  tender  add  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar  and  boil 
a  few  minutes  longer.  Strain  and  let  cool.  Serve  sprinkled 
with  nut  meats  and  grated  cocoanut 


Orange  Marmalade 

4  oranges  ,  11  cups  water 

1  lemon  4  pounds  sugar 

Grind  oranges  and  lemons,  mix  together,  add  water  and  let 
stand  24  hours,  then  boil  for  one  hour  with  cover  off.  Let 
stand  again  24  hours.  Add  sugar  and  boil  until  it  jells,  or 
about  one  hour.   Makes  ten  glasses. 

Corn  Relish 

12  ears  sweet  com  (cut  from  1  tablespoon  mustard 

cob)  1  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1    head    cabbage    (chopped  2  tablespoons  salt 

fine)  1  cup  sugar 

4  red  peppers  (chopped  fine)  2  quarts  vinegar  (weak) 

Boil  20  minutes  and  seal. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  131 

Green  Pickles  and  Onions 

25  pickles,  size  of  dill  pickles.  Soak  in  water  over  night.  Next 
morning  slice  pickles  and  12  onions.  Pour  Yz  cup  salt  over  this 
and  let  stand  1  hour.  Then  squeeze  out  of  salt  and  add  1  quart 
vinegar,  2  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  mustard  seed,  1  teaspoon 
ginger,  1  teaspoon  tumeric.  Let  this  mixture  come  to  a  boil  and 
boil  3  minutes,  then  put  in  jars. 


Bread  and  Butter  Pickles 

6  large  cucumbers  sliced  thin  2  teaspoons  celery  seed 

(do  not  peel)  1  teaspoon  ginger 

6  large  onions  sliced  thin  2  teaspoons  tumeric  powder 

1  quart  vinegar  Yz  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  2  teaspoons  salt 
2  teaspoons  mustard  seed 

Let  come  to  boil;  add  cucumbers  and  onions.   Boil  all  5  mill' 
utes,  then  seal.  Makes  6  pints. 


Dill  Pickles 

Wash  and  scrub  clean  10  pounds  small  cucumbers;  soak  over 
night  in  cold  salt  water.  Next  morning  wipe  and  pack  in 
sterilized  quart  jars  with  dill  between.  Take  3  quarts  water, 
1  quart  white  vinegar,  1  level  cup  salt,  few  bay  leaves;  boil  up 
and  fill  jars  to  overflowing.  Place  some  dill  on  top  and  a  pinch 
of  alum,  and  seal  while  hot.  Put  away  in  dark,  cool  place.  Will 
stay  crisp  and  delicious  for  a  year. 


Crisp  Dill  Pickles 

Wash  and  let  stand  over  night  in  clear  water.  In  the  morning 
boil  1  cup  salt,  1  quart  vinegar,  3  quarts  water,  and  pack 
pickles  in  fruit  jars.  Add  the  dill  and  pour  the  liquid  over  hot 
and  seal. 


132  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Plum  Conserve 

Select  one  basket  of  blue  plums.  Cut  into  small  pieces.  Take 
three  oranges,  cut  the  skin  into  tiny  dice,  and  pulp  into  pieces 
(grind).  Add  onc'half  cup  chopped  walnuts,  and  one-half 
cup  chopped  raisins. 

Parboil  orange  peel  in  little  water.  Add  to  plums,  oranges, 
nuts  and  raisins.  Cook  until  plums  are  tender.  Add  an  equal 
quantity  of  sugar  and  cook  until  it  thickens. 


Chile  Sauce 

30  tomatoes 

6  peppers  (3  of  each  red  and 

green) 
4  large  onions 


lYl  tablespoons  salt 
114  cups  of  sugar 
3    tablespoons    of    pickling 
spices  tied  in  bag 


Add    1    tablespoon   of   ground   mustard   and    1    teaspoon   of 
cayenne  pepper  and  3  cups  of  vinegar.  Let  boil  until  thick. 


Catsup 

8  quarts  tomatoes,  chopped 
3  cups  red  peppers 

2  cups  onions 

3  cups  sugar 
f^  cup  salt 
Boil  3  hours 


1  quart  vinegar 

3  teaspoons  cloves 
3  teaspoons  cinnamon 
3  teaspoons  ginger 

2  teaspoons  nutmeg 


1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 
Yz  teaspoon  tumeric 
1   heaping  teaspoon  com 
starch 


Bread  and  Butter  Pickles 

2  doz.  medium  cucumbers 

1  do2.  medium  onions 

2  cups  sugar 
lj/2  pint  cider  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed 
Slice  cucumbers  (do  not  peel)  and  onions  and  soak  in  salt 
water  about  2  hours.  Mix  corn  starch  and  tumeric  with  sugar 
and  add  spices  and  vinegar.  Drain  cucumbers  and  onions. 
Pour  vinegar  and  mixture  over  and  cook  till  cucumbers  are 
transparent.  A  little  red  pimento  and  stick  of  cinnamon  in 
each  jar  adds  to  looks  and  flavor. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  133 

Preserved  Pears 

Pare  and  halve  Bartlett  pears  and  remove  cores.  Drop  fruit  as 
soon  as  peeled  into  cold  water.  Make  a  syrup  by  using  sugar 
and  water  in  proportion  to  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  water. 
Drop  fruit  into  syrup  as  soon  as  it  boils.  Boil  until  tender. 
Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  and  seal 


Grape  Fruit  Marmalade 

For  every  grapefruit  allow  one  sweet  orange  and  a  lemon. 
After  cutting  the  grapefruit  in  half  and  removing  the  seeds  and 
hard  centers,  shce  it  with  the  orange  and  lemon  finely. 

For  every  cup  of  fruit  add  three  of  water;  let  it  stand  for  24 
hours,  and  then  boil  for  30  minutes. 

After  it  has  stood  for  another  24  hours,  add  a  cup  of  sugar  to 
every  cup  of  fruit  and  then  cook  the  marmalade  for  45  min' 
utes,  or  until  the  fruit  becomes  transparent. 


Sliced  Cucumber  Pickles 

3  dozen  medium  size  cucum'  2  teaspoons  ground  white 

bers  pepper 

1  dozen  medium  size  onions  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1  cup  sugar  1  quart  vinegar. 
3  teaspoons  mustard  seed 

(whole) 

Peel  and  slice  cucumbers,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Peel 
and  shce  onions,  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
wash  and  drain  cucumbers  and  drain  onions.  Add  sugar  and 
seasonings;  mix  well.  Heat  vinegar;  pour  over  all;  let  come  to 
a  boil  and  seal  in  fruit  jars. 

When  opened  these  taste  like  fresh  cucumbers. 


134  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

2  pounds  brown  sugar  Yl  ounce  whole  cloves 

2  cups  vinegar  4  quarts  peaches  (clingstone 

1  ounce  stick  cinnamon  preferred) 

Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  20  minutes.  Dip  peaches  qviickly 
in  hot  water;  then  rub  ofF  {\xza  with  a  cloth.  Place  a  few 
peaches  at  a  time  in  the  syrup  and  cook  until  tender  Pack 
into  sterilized  jars.  Adjust  sterilized  rubbers  and  fill  each  jar 
to  overflowing  with  hot  strained  syrup.  Put  on  covers  and  seal 
jars  immediately. 


Spiced  Apples 

Cut  peeled  apples  into  eights  or  quarters  and  cook  till  tender 
in  a  syrup  of  equal  parts  water,  vinegar  and  sugar,  to  which 
has  been  added  a  few  whole  cloves,  a  few  pieces  of  cinnamon 
and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Remove  the  apples  with  skim' 
mer,  boil  syrup  until  thick  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
A  fine  reh'sh.   Serve  cold. 


Cucumber  Mangoes 

Soak  in  strong  brine  nine  days  as  many  large  green  cucumbers 
as  you  wish  to  use.  Then  lay  them  fortyeight  hours  in  clear 
water.  Cut  a  sUt  lengthwise  in  each,  scoop  out  seeds,  wipe 
dry,  and  fill  with  stoned  raisins,  lemon  cut  in  long,  thin  strips, 
and  6  or  8  whole  cloves.  Tie  up  sHt,  pack  cucumbers  in  stone 
jar,  and  cover  with  a  boiling  syrup  made  from  the  following: 
Add  to  1  quart  vinegar  5  pounds  sugar,  also  mace,  cinnamon 
and  cloves  to  taste.  Reheat  syrup  and  pour  boiling  hot  over 
cucumbers  for  nine  successive  mornings. 


Pickled  Peaches 

1  gallon  peeled  peaches  2  dozen  cloves 

3  pounds  sugar  6  sticks  cinnamon 

1  pint  pure  cider  vinegar 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 


135 


Boil  vinegar,  sugar,  cinnamon  and  cloves  15  minutes,  then 
pour  liquor  over  peaches  and  let  stand  over  night  in  stone  jar 
covered  with  a  plate.  Next  morning  pour  ofF  liquor  and  heat 
to  boiling  point,  then  add  the  peaches  to  boiling  liquor,  and 
let  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Seal  in  glass  jars. 


!2  tablespoons  stick  cinna' 

mon 
1  tablespoon  whole  cloves 


Spiced  Figs 

5  pounds  figs 

2  cups  brown  sugar 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  cups  vinegar 

Tie  spices  in  piece  cheesecloth.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and 
spices  for  five  minutes.  Wash  figs  and  drop  in  syrup  without 
peeling.  Cook  until  tender  but  not  broken,  doing  few  at  a 
time.  Remove  to  sterilized  crock  as  they  are  done  and  when 
all  have  been  pickled  pour  boiling  syrup  over  them.  If  not 
enough  syrup  to  cover,  an  additional  quantity  should  be 
made.  Place  bag  of  spices  in  crock  with  the  figs. 


Spanish  Olive  Oil  Pickles 

8  dozen   medium   sized  cu' 

cumbers 
1  quart  onions 
1  cup  olive  oil 
Yl  cup  black  mustard  seed 


Yl  cup  white  mustard  seed 
1  cup   tiny  red   chile   pep' 

pers 
Vinegar 


Wash,  peel  and  slice  onions  and  cucumbers,  cover  with  brine 
made  by  adding  one  cup  salt  to  four  quarts  boiling  water. 
Let  stand  two  hours  and  drain.  Pour  boiling  water  over  pep' 
pers.  Let  stand  ten  minutes,  drain  and  add  to  cucumber  mix' 
ture.  Mix  oil  and  mustard  seed  and  add  to  cucumbers.  Add 
enough  boiHng  vinegar  to  cover  the  pickles.  Put  in  jars  and 
seal  while  hot. 


MEATS  AND  MEAT  DISHES 

MEAT  SUPPLIES  PROTEIN  AND  FAT 

Meats 

It  requires  fifteen  minutes  to  warm  a  piece  of  meat  thoroughly. 
Add  this  fifteen  minutes  to  the  following  table: 

Boiling 

Boil  all  meat  slowly  over  a  low  flame. 

Beef  requires  one  hour  to  the  poimd. 

Corned  beef  requires  half  hour  to  the  pound. 

Ham  requires  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Young  chicken  requires  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Tough  chicken  requires  half  an  hour  to  the  pound 

Roasting 

Rare  beef  requires  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Veal  requires  half  an  hour  to  the  pound. 

Pork  requires  half  an  hour  to  the  pound. 

Spring  chicken  requires  half  an  hour. 

Squabs  require  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Turkey  requires  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Lamb  requires  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Broiling 

One  inch  steak  requires  eight  minutes   (rare);  ten  minutes 

(medium) . 

Two  inch  steak  requires  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  (rare) ;  fifteen 

to  twenty  minutes  (medium). 

Lamb  chops  requires  ten  minutes. 

Spring    chicken    requires    twenty    mimitfa    to    twenty'five 

minutes. 

136 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  137 

Broiled  Steak 

Trim  the  excess  fat  from  the  meat.    Heat  the  oven  for  five 

minutes.   Grease  the  broiling  rack  and  place  as  near  the  flame 

as  possible.    Sear  the  steak  for  a  minute,  turn  and  sear  the 

other  side.    Lower  the  rack  an  inch  and  cook  the  steak  ten 

minutes  for  rare  steak  or  fifteen  minutes  for  medium  to  well 

done.  Turn  so  as  to  broil  evenly. 

Spread  with  butter  and  season  just  before  removing  from  the 

broiler. 

Chops  are  prepared  in  the  same  fashion. 

Pan  Broiled  Steak 

Heat  and  grease  the  frying  pan.  Put  in  the  steak  and  sear  for 
a  minute  on  one  side,  turn  and  sear  on  the  other.  Cook  for 
five  minutes  (if  steak  is  to  be  rare)  turning  often.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  butter. 

Oven  Baked  Steak 

Use  a  thick  sirloin  steak.  Put  in  a  pan  and  add  4  tablespoons 
catsup,  salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion.  Dot  with  butter.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Swiss  Steak 

3  pounds  of  round  steak  1  onion 

3  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Yl  cup  flour 

Have  round  steak  cut  one  and  one-half  inches  thick.   Pound 

the  flour  into  the  meat,  on  both  sides,  with  a  potato  masher. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan, 

add  the  onion,  sliced;  brown  and  put  in  the  meat.  Let  brown 

on  both  sides. 

Cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  the  pan  and  let  simmer  for 

two  or  more  hours  until  meat  is  tender. 

Roast  of  Beef 

Dredge  meat  with  flour.   Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Set  in  a  roasting  pan  with  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  fat. 

Brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven;  then  reduce  the  flame  and  baste 


138  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

every  fifteen  minutes  with  the  fat  that  drips  off  the  roast. 

Allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound. 

When  meat  is  half  done,  turn,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste 

repeatedly  until  the  roast  is  done. 

To  make  a  gravy  for  the  roast:  Make  a  flour  and  water  paste 

with  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  add  a  little  of  the  pan  drippings. 

Remove  the  fat  from  the  pan  gravy  and  stir  the  flour  paste  in 

with  the  meat  juices.   Ckx»k,  add  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

sauce,  stir  until  smooth. 

Fillet  of  Beef 

Have  the  fillet  skinned  and  larded.  Place  in  the  roasting  pan 
in  a  hot  oven  for  three-quarters  to  one  hour,  depending  on  the 
weight  of  the  fillet  Baste  several  times  with  own  drippings  or 
add  water  if  necessary. 

Make  a  pan  gravy  as  for  roast  beef  and  serve  with  potatoes 
and  hot  vegetables.  A  mushroom  sauce  is  also  very  good 
with  fillet  of  beef. 

Pot  Roast 

3  pounds  of  beef  (rump  or  Bay  leaf 

top  round)  Onion 

1  pint  hot  water  Parsley 

1  tablespoon  flour  Celery  salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  drippings  Tomato 

Sprinkle  the  meat  with  flour.  Heat  the  drippings  or  fat  in  a 
tight  covered  kettle,  brown  the  onion  and  add  the  meat 
browning  on  all  sides.  Add  the  bay  leaf  and  pour  on  the 
boiling  water.  Let- simmer  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  or 
until  meat  is  perfectly  tender.  Add  hot  water  if  necessary  to 
prevent  burning. 

Lay  slices  of  onion  and  tomato  on  top  of  roast  half  an  hour 
before  it  is  ready.   Gravy  may  be  thickened  with  flour. 

Braised  Beef 

Have  a  three  pound  rump  roast  larded.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Brown  one  sliced  onion  in  fat,  put  in  the  rump  and 
add  one  carrot  sliced,  one  bay  leaf,  chopped  parsley  and 
brown  all.  Cover  and  let  simmer  for  two  and  a  half  hours. 
*  Baste  often  adding  soup  stock  or  water.  Remove  the  cover 
and  brown  the  rump.   Serve  with  horseradish  sauce. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  139 

Chipped  Beef  and  Cream 

1  pound  chipped  dried  beef  1  cup  cream  sauce 

Chipped  beef  is  very  salty  and  should  be  soaked  for  half  an 
hour  before  using.  Drain  the  beef,  add  the  cream  sauce  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Serve  on  toast  and 
with  baked  potato. 

Boiled  Smoked  Tongue 

Soak  the  tongue  over  night  in  cold  water.    Drain  off  this 
water  and  place  tongue  in  fresh  water  to  cover  and  cook  in  a 
large  kettle. 
Cook  over  a  low  flame  for  three  hours. 

Boiled  Smoked  Tongue 

Soak  the  tongue  over  night  in  cold  water.  Drain  off  this 
water  and  cover  with  fresh  water.  Add  bay  leaves,  whole 
pepper,  cloves,  and  sliced  onion  to  the  water  anfl  cook  slowly 
for  three  hours.  Drain  off  the  water.  When  sufficiently 
cool,  remove  the  skin  and  roots.  Serve  with  a  brown  sauce 
or  a  sweet'sour  sauce. 

Spiced  Beef 

Four  to  six  pounds  of  beef  from  middle  cut  of  shin. 
Wash  and  trim  well  and  pick  off  all  fragments  of  bone.  Cut 
meat  into  several  pieces,  cover  with  boiling  water.  Simmer 
till  meat  falls  to  pieces  and  the  Hquid  reduced  to  half  a  pant. 
Remove  the  meat,  season  the  liquid  highly  with  salt,  pepper, 
sage  and  thyme.  Add  it  to  meat  and  mix  with  fork  until  the 
meat  is  all  broken. 

Pack  solid  in  a  brick  loaf  bread  or  cake  pan,  put  on  ice  and 
let  it  get  firm  and  solid.  When  ready,  cut  in  thick  ^lices. 
Delicious  for  sandwiches  or  luncheon  dish,  boroered  with 
sliced  tomatoes,  beets  and  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Birds 

1  pound  of  round  steak  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

]/^  pound  of  bacon  4  slices  of  dry  toast 

1  small  onion 
Have  steak  cut  thin.   Cut  in  portions.    Make  filling  by  chop' 


140  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

ping  bread,  fried  bacon,  onion,  salt  and  pepper  together  in 
chopping  bowl. 

Place  filling  in  portions  of  steak,  roll  and  tie  together  with 
string,  or  pin  with  toothpick.  Roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  the 
bacon  fat  Take  out  and  put  in  casserole.  Make  gravy  in  pan 
and  cover  birds  in  casserole.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 
Can  also  be  cooked  in  pan,  if  not  wanted  in  casserole. 

Filet  Mignon 

Tenderloin  of  beef  is  used  for  filet  mignon.    Cut  the  filets 

about  an  inch  thick.    Broil  for  three  minutes  under  a  high 

flame,  turning  once  only.    Serve  on  toast,  placing  each  filet 

on  a  slice  of  orange  or  pineapple.     Serve  with  mushroom 

sauce. 

The  tenderloin  of  beef  is  the  most  delicious  and  tender  part 

of  beef  and  therefore  needs  very  Uttle  broiling. 

Salisbury  Steak  (Meat  Balls) 

1  pound  chopped  beef  1  teaspoon  onion,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  bread  crumbs  Pepper 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butter  and  mold  into  round 
flat  cakes.  Melt  the  butter  and  sear  the  cakes  first  on  one  side, 
then  on  the  other.  Add  a  little  boiling  water,  cover  the  pan 
and  cook  until  tender. 

Beef  a  la  Mode 

4  pounds  top  round  of  beef  Pepper  and  salt 
or  rump  5  carrots 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  fat  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Rub  the  meat  with  the  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Put  with  the 
fat  into  a  baking  pan.  Brown  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 
chopped  carrots,  and  pour  on  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Simmer 
in  a  slow  oven  for  three  hours.  Baste  often.  Pour  vinegar 
over  just  before  serving  and  thicken  the  self'gravy  with  a 
little  flour. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  141 

Baked  Corned  Beef  Hash 

3  cups  chopped  cooked  iVi  cups  milk 
corned  beef                                  Salt  and  pepper 

6  good  sized  potatoes  1  tablespoon  chopped 

1  onion  pepper 

2  tablespoons  bacon  fat 

Place  the  chopped  corned  beef  in  a  greased  casserole  and  add 
chopped  onion,  pepper  and  place  the  sliced  potato  on  top. 
Arrange  in  layers  seasoning  throughout.  Pour  milk  over  all, 
cover  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  potatoes  are  tender. 
Brown  for  the  last  ten  minutes  with  cover  off  of  casserole. 

New  England  Boiled  Dinner 

4  pounds  corned  beef  6  potatoes 
6  small  carrots                                  2  turnips 

6  onions  1  small  cabbage  (white) 

6  parsnips 

If  meat  is  salty  boil  up  in  water  and  drain.  Cook  the  meat 
covered  with  boiling  water  for  three  to  five  hours  until  tender. 
When  meat  is  about  half  cooked  add  the  carrots,  cabbage, 
and  turnips.  One-half  hour  before  ready  add  the  onions, 
parsnips  and  potatoes.  Serve  with  meat  in  the  center  of 
platter  and  each  vegetable  separate  around  the  platter. 

To  Com  Beef: 

Dissolve  threcquarter  tablespoon  saltpeter  in  a  little  water. 
Salt  ten  pounds  brisket  of  beef,  add  pepper,  garlic  and  one 
cup  of  brown  sugar.  Put  in  an  earthen  jar,  cover  with  an 
old  plate  and  weigh  down  the  plate.  Stand  over  night.  Cover 
with  water  and  let  pickle  in  the  brine  for  ten  days.  Turn  the 
meat  every  three  or  four  days. 

Veal  and  Dumplings 

2  cups  cooked  veal  1  teaspoon  salt 
4  tablespoons  flour  Pepper 

3  tablespoons  beef  fat  3  tablespoons  chopped 
V/z  cups  soup  stock  green  pepper 

Stir  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  into  the  melt^  fat. 

Add  the  soup  stock  and  bring  to  a  boiL    Remove  seeds  and 

spines  from  the  pepper  and  chop.   Add  the  diced  cooked  veal, 


142  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

green  pepper  and  seasoning;  simmer  for  twenty  minutes. 

Serve  with  egg  dumplings. 

Break  the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  a  cup,  and  add  onc'half 

teaspoon  salt  and  enough  milk  to  fill  the  cup.    Mix  with  two 

tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  cup  flour  in  a  spider  and  stir 

as  the  batter  boils  until  it  leaves  the  spider  clean. 

Cool  the  mixture  and   when   cool  stir  in  the  yolks.    Drop 

from  a  spoon  into  boiling  salted  water.  Boil  for  five  minutes. 

Veal  Mock  Birds 

1  pound  veal  steak  2  tablespoons  fat  drippings 

2  cups  hot  water  Salt 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  Mustard 

1    tablespoon  chopped  pickle  Bay  leaf 

or  pickle  relish 
Have  veal  cut  about  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Slice  in  four 
pieces  and  flatten  the  pieces.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Spread  on  each  piece  some  chopped  onion,  a  littk  chopped 
raw  bacon,  mustard  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Roll  each  slice 
and  bind  with  a  piece  of  string. 

Roll  each  "bird"  lightly  in  flour  and  brown  in  fat  in  a  covered 
spider.  Add  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  two  and  a  half 
hours.  Remove  the  strings  and  serve. 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb 

Bone  the  lamb,  dredge  with  flour,  sprinkle  on  salt  and  pepper. 
Roast  in  a  roasting  pan  in  a  hot  oven.  When  brown,  baste 
every  quarter  hour  and  add  water  if  necessary.  Cook  for 
two  hoxirs. 

Serve  with  mint  sauce  or  pour  one  glass  current  or  goose' 
berry  jelly  over  the  meat  just  before  serving. 

Lamb  Stew 

Use  shoulder  or  neck  meat.  Brown  the  meats,  cut  in  pieces, 
and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  carrots,  onion,  celery 
and  parsley  all  chopped.  Season  and  cook  for  two  hours. 
Potatoes  cut  in  cubes  may  be  added  onchalf  hour  before 
finished  cooking. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  143 

Stuffed  Breast  of  Veal 

Have  the  butcher  cut  a  pouch  in  a  four  pound  breast  of  veal. 
Make  a  stuflSng  by  grinding  one-quarter  pound  salt  pork,  one 
cup  bread  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoon  sage  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Stuff  the  pouch  with  this  mixture  and  roast,  averaging  twenty 
minutes  to  the  pound. 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb 

Have  the  butcher  prepare  the  ribs  for  "crown  roast."  The 
center  may  be  filled  with  bread  stuffing,  cooked  vegetables, 
boiled  chestnuts  or  mashed  potatoes. 

Cover  the  ends  of  the  ribs  with  greased  brown  paper  to  pre- 
vent charring.   Roast  one  and  one-quarter  hours  or  until  ten- 
der in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  fancy  paper  chop  holders. 

Liver  and  Onions 

1  pound  sliced  calves  liver  2  tablespoons  bacon  fat 

2  tablespoons  flour  Seasoning. 

Dredge  the  liver  with  flour.    Heat  the  bacon  fat  in  a  spider 

and  sear  the  liver  on  both  sides. 

Keep  in  the  spider  while  frying  one  large  sliced  onion.  Let  all 

simmer  for  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

Liver  is  most  valuable  when  it  is  not  cooked  too  thoroughly. 

Searing  preserves  the  health  giving  properties. 

Baked  Calf's  Liver 

Season  slices  of  liver  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  on 
flour.    Spread  melted  fat  over  the  slices  and  fry  in  a  hot, 
greased  spider.   Add  two  slices  of  onion. 
Cover  the  spider  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven; 
reduce  the  heat  and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour. 

Boiled  Sweetbreads 

Soak  one  pound  of  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  fifteen 

minutes,  removing  all   membrane. 

Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.    Plunge  into. 


144  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

cold  water  to  make  firm.   Break  into  pieces  and  serve  on  toast 

or  in  patties  with  white  sauce. 

Chicken,  peas  and  mushrooms  are  often  combined  with  sweet' 

breads. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads 

Parboil  sweetbreads,  which  have  been  washed  and  soaked. 
Split  crosswise  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  for 
five  minutes.  Spread  with  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 

Scalloped  Sweetbreads 

2  pairs  sweetbreads  2f^  cups  top  milk 

1  cup  mushrooms  J/2  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  tablespoons  beef  fat  2  tablespoons  butter 
2  tablespoons  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

Soak  the  sweetbreads,  cut  in  pieces,  in  cold  water  for  fifteen 
minutes  and  then  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

Peel  and  quarter  the  mushrooms.  Simmer  in  the  beef  fat  with 
the  sweetbreads.  Add  the  flour  and  seasoning  and  cook  a 
moment  longer.  Povir  on  the  top  milk  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Turn  into  a  greased  casserole,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
and  dot  with  butter;  brown  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

Smothered  Sausage: 

1  cup  sausage  meat  1  egg 

1  cup  celery  1  quart  mashed  potatoes 

2  tablespoons  white  sauce 

Simmer  the  sausage  meat  imtil  tender.    SUce  the  celery  and 
add  to  the  meat;  cook  until  tender.   Stir  in  the  white  sauce. 
Season  the  mashed  potatoes  highly  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
stir  in  the  beaten  egg.    Place  meat  in  center  of  a  greased 
baking  pan,  surround  and  cover  with  mashed  potato.    Paint 
with  a  little  egg  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
until  potatoes  are  browned. 
Pour  on  the  white  sauce  and  serve. 
Serves  six. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  145 

Picnic  Meat  Roll 

V/4  pounds  forequarter  of  ]/4  teaspoon  pepper 

lamb  1  egg   (raw) 

3  tablespoons  onion  1  cup  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  green  pepper  2  hard  cooked  eggs 
1  teaspoon  salt 

To  the  finely  chopped  lamb,  onions  and  green  pepper,  add  re- 
maining ingredients,  excepting  hard  cooked  eggs,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Turn  out  on  to  slightly  floured  board.  Place 
eggs  in  center  of  meat,  shape  into  roll  and  dredge  with  flour. 
Put  in  roasting  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  de- 
grees) forty-five  minutes.  Serve  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley. 

Potatoes  and  Pork  Chops 

Put  into  a  baking  dish  layers  of  raw  potatoes,  sliced  one- 
quarter  inch  thick,  seasoned  with  salt  and  dotted  with  pieces 
of  butter.  Fill  the  dish  to  within  two  inches  of  the  top.  Put 
on  a  layer  of  pork  chops  and  sufficient  milk  to  barely  cover. 
Bake  in  oven  about  one  and  three-quarter  hours. 

Ham  and  Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 

1  slice  inch  thick  ham  1/3  cup  brown  sugar 
6  sweet  potatoes 

Wash  and  trim  the  ham.  Place  in  a  hot  skillet,  brown  on  both 
sides  thoroughly.  Place  in  a  covered  dish  in  a  slow  oven  and 
bake  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Boil  the  sweet  potatoes  until  tender.    When  peeled  and  quar- 
tered, cook  slowly  in  the  skillet  using  the  ham  drippings. 
Sprinkle  with   sugar.    Simmer  slowly  and  turn  often  until 
very  well  browned. 
Serve  the  ham  surrounded  by  the  potatoes. 

Scalloped  Ham 

2  thick  slices  ham  3  carrots 

4  large  potatoes  1  pint  milk 
1  onion                                            Parsley 

Chop  onion,  parsley,  and  carrots  fine.    Cut  potatoes  in  slices 


146  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

and  line  baking  dish  with  potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  place  layer  of  vegetables  on  potatoes.  Cover  with 
one  of  the  ^ces  of  ham,  which  has  been  trimmed,  and  cut  in 
two  or  three  pieces.  Cover  with  another  layer  of  potatoes 
and  vegetables  follo\^'ed  by  pieces  of  ham  until  dish  is  filled. 
Have  piece  of  ham  on  the  top  of  the  dish,  pour  over  the  milk 
and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  and  one-half 
hours. 


Pork  Chops 

Heat  the  frying  pan,  sprinkle  the  pork  chops  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  fry  slowly  in  their  own  fat.  Cook  until  tender  and 
brown,  and  drain  off  the  fat. 


Pork  Chops  with  Fried  Apples 

When  chops  are  fried  tender,  fry  apple  sHces  one-half  inch 
thick  in  the  pork  fat.    Serve  around  the  plate  of  chops. 


Tenderloin  of  Pork 

Flatten  the  tenderloins  and  roll  in  flour.   Fry  brown  in  butter 

and   a   little   chopped    onion;   cover   well   and    simmer   until 

tender. 

Onc'half  cup  sour  cream  may  be  used  for  basting. 


Broiled  Spareribs. 

Broil  the  ribs  on  a  greased  broiler  for  ten  minutes.  Turn  often 
to  prevent  burning.    Serve  with  creamed  potatoes. 
Serve  spareribs  boiled,  with  spinach  or  cabbage. 


Spareribs  and  Sourkraut 

Boil  the  sourkraut  and  bake  in  a  casserole  with  the  spareribs. 
Bake  until  the  kraut  is' browned. 


REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  147 

Baked  Virginia  Ham 

Soak  the  ham  over  night.  Put  it  into  a  large  kettle  with  three 
cups  of  cider,  one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  ground  cloves 
and  enough  water  to  cover. 

Simmer  for  eight  hours  for  a  ham  of  about  ten  pounds.  Let 
stand  for  twentyfour  hours.  Remove  the  outer  skin  of  the 
ham  and  cover  with  brown  sugar.  Stick  whole  cloves  into 
the  ham.  Bake  for  onchalf  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven  basting 
every  iive  minutes  with  cider. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


Plain  Meat  Loaf 

1  pound  chopped  beef  Yz  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

Yl  cup  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Yz  cup  water  or  milk  Yl  teaspoon  chopped  green 

pepper 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together.  Use  only  enough  liquid  to 
bind  the  meat  and  crumbs.  Mold  into  a  roll.  Place  in  a  bread 
pan,  lay  strips  of  bacon  over  the  meat  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  onc'half  hour. 


Beef  Stew 

"hYl  pounds  of  beef  Yl  cup  sliced  onion 

1  tablespoon  beef  drippings  Yl  cup  sliced  carrots 

2  potatoes  Yl  cup  tomatoes 
Ya  cup  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  dredge  with  flour.  Brown 
on  all  sides  in  the  melted  fat  in  a  spider.  Cover  the  meat  and 
onions  with  water  and  simmer  for  two  to  three  hours  on  a 
low  flame. 

Half  an  hour  before  serving,  remove  any  bones  or  fat  and  add 
the  vegetables.  Cook  one  half  hour  longer  and  serve  with  its 
own  gravy  thickened  with  flour  if  necessary. 


148  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Meat  Pie 

Cut  left  over  steak  or  any  cooked  meat  into  pieces.    Cover 

with  boiling  water  and  add  half  an  onion.    Cook  on  a  low 

flame  for  one  hour. 

Thicken  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  milk  and  season  with  salt 

and  pepper. 

Parboil  potatoes  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water.    Cut  into 

small  cubes  and  put  all  into  a  greased  baking  dish.    Cover 

with  a  baking  powder  biscuit  dough  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 

(450  degrees  F.)  for  thirty  minutes.    Cut  a  large  cross  in  the 

baking  powder  biscuit  dough  to  let  the  gasses  escape. 

Rice  and  Meat  Casserole 

2  cups  cooked  meat  or  left  1  tablespoon  minced  onion 

over  steak  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  cooked  rice  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  butter 
Y^  cup  soup  stock 

Chop  the  meat  fine  and  mix  with  onion,  salt  and  pepper.   Beat 

the  egg  and  add  with  the  hot  soup  stock  or  equal  amount  hot 

water.' 

Grease  a  casserole,  lay  a  layer  of  cooked  rice  on  the  bottom, 

then  a  layer  of  meat.    Cover  with  the  bread  crumbs  and  dot 

with  butter. 

Bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  covered 

with  a  thick  tomato  sauce. 

Beef  en  Casserole 

2j/2  pounds  round  steak  Sliced  onion 

1  tablespoon  flour  Shced  carrot 

2  tablespoons  beef  fat  Bay  leaves 

1  cup  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

Flour  the  meat  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Heat  the 

fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  the  meat  on  both  sides. 

Mix  the  other  ingredients  in  a  casserole,  add  the  meat,  cover 

and  simmer  until  tender.    Will  require  about  two  and  a  half 

to  three  quarters  hours  to  cook. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  149 

Mulligan  Stew 

1  soup  bone  2  parsnips 

1  pound  stew  beef  1  can  tomato  soup 

3  large  onions  2  tablespoons  of  salt 

6  carrots.  Yi  teaspoon  of  pepper 

6  sticks  of  celery 

Put  on  soup  bone  and  meat,  cooking  slowly  for  two  hours  in 
six  quarts  of  water,  add  vegetables  after  cooking  meat  one 
hour.  Just  before  the  mulligan  is  taken  off  the  fire  add  the 
tomato  soup  stirring  slowly  for  three  minutes.  Potatoes  may 
be  cooked  in  mulligan  if  desired. 

Chop  Suey    . 

1  pound  of  round  steak  3  to  4  onions 

1  stalk  of  celery  1  can  tomatoes 
3  large  green  sweet  peppers 

Cut  up  steak  in  small  pieces,  fry  in  butter  until  brown.  Cut 
up  celery  and  add  to  meat  and  tomatoes.  Cut  the  pepper  and 
onions  in  small  pieces  and  cook  all  together  until  done.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Serve  with  rice  or  mashed 
potatoes. 

Casserole  of  Meat  and  Rice 

2  or  3  cups  ground  meat  3  cups  boiling  water 
1  level  teaspoonful  salt  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  small  onion  Cracker  crumbs 

XVl  cups  tomato  sauce  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 

2/3  cup  of  rice 

Cook  rice  with  salt  in  three  cups  of  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Line  a  casserole,  or  other  baking  dish,  with  a  layer  of  cooked 
rice,  a  layer  of  the  ground  meat,  which  has  been  mixed  with 
the  ground  onion,  and  one-half  of  the  tomato  sauce,  then  a 
layer  of  rice  and  another  layer  of  meat  and  so  on  until  rice 
and  meat  are  all  vised.  Then  pour  remainig  one-half  of  tomato 
sauce  on  top,  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  butter 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one-half  hour.   Serve  hot. 


150  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

English  Pot-Pie. 

Parboil  one  do2;en  oysters  in  their  own  liquor.  Slice  one-half 
pound  cooked  ham  and  two  pounds  cooked  veal  into  small 
pieces.  Grease  a  baking'dish  and  lay  the  veal,  oysters,  boiled 
potatoes  and  slices  of  tomatoes  in  layers  in  the  dish.  Pour 
over  some  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  about  a  cup  of  soup  stock. 
Dot  each  layer  with  butter  and  cover  with  a  pie-crust.  Pierce 
the  crust  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape  and  bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven  (450  degrees  F.)  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 


Goulash  ^ 

1  cup  cooked  beef  Yi  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
3/2  cup  cooked  veal  sauce 

2  onions  J4  teaspoon  paprika 
2  tablespoons  chili  sauce  Yi  cup  beef  stock 

2  tablespoons  catsup  3  tablespoons  butter 

Fry  the  onion,  sUced,  in  a  frying  pan,  with  the  melted  butter. 
Pour  the  stock,  chili  sauce,  catsup,  Worcestershire  and  season- 
ing into  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  browned  onions  and  sim- 
mer for  ten  minutes. 

Cut  the  meat  in  cubes  and  turn  into  the  double  boiler.  Cook 
for  five  more  minutes  and  serve. 


Kidney  Stew 

1  large  beef  kidney  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  flour  Pepper  and  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Wash  the  kidney  and  cook  slowly  in  salt  water  until  tender. 

Use  just  enough  water  to  cover  but  change  the  water  three 

or  four  times.   Retain  the  last  water. 

Shce  the  onion  thin  and  fry  in  the  butter  to  a  light  brown, 

add  the  flour.    Add  the  water  and  a  httle  Worcestershire 

sauce.   Add  the  kidney  cut  into  pieces  and  cook  together  for 

ten  minutes. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  151 

Hamburger  Steak  with  Spaghetti 

1  pound  ground  round  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes 
steak  1  pound  spaghetti 

3  large  onions  Yi  pound  grated  cheese 

Yl  cup  beef  fat  1  cup  chopped  oHves 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  2  tablespoons  chopped 
6  green  peppers  parsley 

Peel  and  chop  the  onions  and  brown  with  the  chopped  meat 
in  the  fat  and  olive  oil.  Add  the  chopped  peppers,  tomato, 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  for  two  hours.  Add  olives 
during  last  half  hour  of  cooking. 

Cook  long  enough  to  evaporate  the  juice  of  the  tomatoes  and 
leave  a  soft  paste. 

Cook  the  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  until  tender 
and  drain. 

Put  the  spaghetti  on  a  platter,  pour  the  meat  and  tomato 
sauce  over  it  and  cover  with  grated  cheese.  Place  in  the  oven 
and  allow  the  cheese  to  melt  in.   Serve. 


Jellied  Meat  Loaf 

(Chicken,  veal,  beef  or  Yz  cup  cold  water 

ham)  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

2  cups  chopped  meat  Chopped  celery,  green  or 
2  cups  soup  stock  red  pepper  chopped, 

2  tablespoons  granulated  chopped  parsley 

gelatine 

Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  five  minutes.  Boil  soup 
stock  and  add  to  gelatine.    Chill. 

When  gelatine  mixture  starts  to  stiffen,  add  the  chopped 
meat  and  chopped  onions,  pepper  and  parsley. 

Chill  a  loaf  mold,  turn  in  the  mixture  and  allow  to  become 
perfectly  stiff  by  chilling.  Remove  from  mold,  slice  and  serve. 
Thinned  gravy  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  soup  stock. 


152  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Chili  Con  Came 

1  pound  of  beef,  cut  into  1  tablespoon  butter 

small  pieces  1  onion 

3  dried  sweet  peppers  1  cup  water 

1  cup  red  kidney  beans  Yi  teaspoon   paprika 
Yz  cup  canned  tomato  Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  fry  the  meat,  sliced  onion  and 
peppers  until  browned.  Add  the  water,  tomato,  and  season- 
ing  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Drain  the  canned  kid' 
ney  beans  and  add  to  the  meat.  Thicken  with  flour  and  serve. 
Dry  kidney  beans  may  be  used.  Soak  for  several  hours  in 
cold  water.  Ck)ok  until  tender  with  one-half  teaspoon  soda, 
drain  and  add  to  the  meat. 

Beef  Loaf 

2  pounds  ground  beef  1  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs 
Yl  pound  ground  poi^s:  or  12  laige  crackers 

1  onion,  grated  1  cup  of  canned  tomatoes 

1  tablespoon  salt  Small  amount  of  dry  celery 

1  teaspoon  pepper  tops 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
1  cup  of  thick  cream  sauce 

or  2  eggs 
Mix  all  together  into  a  loaf  with  few  strips  of  bacon  or  pieces 
of  suet  on  top. 

Place  in  a  heavy  baking  pan,  quite  hot  at  first.  Finish  baking 
in  a  slow  oven,  45  minutes  to  one  hour. 

To  make  thick  cream  sauce  use  three  tablespoons  flour,  one 
cup  liquid  and  two  tablespoons  butter.  Cook  until  thick,  then 
add  to  meat. 

Mock  Fried  Chicken 

3  pounds  lamb  chops  Yl  cup  n^lk 

3  cups  cracker  crumbs  2  teaspoons  salt 

Yz  cup  butter  or  substitute  Pepper,  paprika  to  taste 

3  eggs 

Sear  lamb  chops.    Mix  eggs,  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika. 

Dip  lamb  chops  in  the  above  mixture,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs. 

Finish  cooking  in  melted  fat,  cook  for  about  one-half  hour. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  153 

Baked  Beans  and  Pork  Chops 

Soak  about  one  pound  of  beans  or  more  over  night  with  a 
little  baking  soda  added  to  water.  Boil  in  salted  water  until 
done;  put  in  baking  dish,  add  small  bottle  of  catsup,  three 
tablespoons  sugar;  mix  well.  Put  all  in  baking  dish  and  place 
pork  chops  on  top  of  beans  and  bake. 


Pigs  Feet  Southern  Style 

2  fresh  pig's  feet;  boil  until  tender.   Make  batter: 

1  egg  Salt 

Yl  cup  flour  Milk  to  mix  as  in  pancakes 

Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Have  grease  to  frying  point;  dip  pig's  feet  in  batter  and  fry 
until  brown.   Serve  while  hot. 


Chili  Con  Came 

1  lb.  ground  round  steak  J4  cup  butter 

Let  meat  brown  in  butter,  then  add  a  cup  of  water  and  let 
simmer  half  an  hour.  Then  add  one  quart  can  of  tomatoes 
and  one  can  red  kidney  beans,  1  teaspoon  of  Chili  Powder  or 
more  to  taste,  and  add  salt  and  boil  Yl  hour. 

StuflFed  Spare-Ribs  and  Mashed  Potatoes 

2  portions  spare-ribs  of  2  Yl  lb.  prunes  (parboiled  and 
lbs.  each  pitted) 

5  large  cooking  apples  Salt  and  pepper 

Rub  salt  on  inside  of  ribs.  Place  apples  that  have  been  pared 
and  sliced  on  ribs,  then  place  as  many  prunes  on  as  the  ribs 
will  hold.  Place  top  rib  on  and  tie  or  skewer  together.  Hace 
a  Uttle  butter  in  roaster.  Sear  ribs  on  both  sides  until  brown. 
Continue  roasting  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  every  20  min' 
utes  until  done.  Thicken  gravy  after  removing  roast.  Serve 
with  mashed  potatoes. 


154  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Veal  and  Ham  Pie 

IJ/2  lbs.  veal  1  tablespoon  chopped  pars 
2  hard'boiled  eggs  ley 

Yl  lb.  ham  Pastry  or  biscuit  dough 

1  tablespoon  flour  Stock 

1  teaspoon  powdered  herbs 
Salt,    pepper   and   mace   to 

taste 

Cut  veal  and  ham  into  thin  slices.  Trimmings  from  roast  may 
be  used.  Mix  the  flour,  salt,  pepper,  mace,  powdered  herbs; 
roll  each  piece  of  veal  in  this  seasoning  and  lay  in  deep  cas- 
serole, alternately,  layers  of  veal,  ham,  -and  eggs  cut  in  slices. 
Pile  this  in  center  of  the  dish;  add  one  cup  of  water  and  pars- 
ley. Cover  with  dough  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  ij/^  hours. 
When  thoroughly  baked,  add  a  little  well-seasoned  stock  and 
serve. 

Baked  Ham  with  Apples 

2  lbs.  ham,  sliced  lJ/2  cups  brown  sugar 
6  medium  sliced  apples  10  whole  cloves 

Yz  cup  water 

Have  ham  sHced  1  inch  thick.  Wipe  with  a  damp  cheese  cloth 
and  trim  off  a  portion  of  the  fat.  Then  rub  in  as  much  of  the 
brown  sugar  as  it  will  take.  Place  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  the 
cloves.  Pare  and  cut  the  apples  J/s  inch  slices.  Place  over  and 
around  the  ham.  Sprinkle  the  remaining  sugar  over  the  apples. 
Add  the  water,  cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  45  minutes 
or  until  ham  is  tender. 

Ham  Roll 

1  lb.  smoked  ham,  ground  Yl  cup  sweet  milk 

2  lbs.  fresh  pork,  ground  Yl  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 
5  eggs 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk.  Bake  in  loaf.  Pour  1  cup 
tomatoes  run  through  colander  over  loaf  and  bake  I  or  lYz 

hours.    Serve  with  horseradish  sauce. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  155 

Beef  Stew 

1  pound  hamburger  steak  1  teaspoon  mustard 

Yl  cup  diced  bacon  Dash  of  pepper 

1  green  pepper  6  potatoes  (diced) 

1  large  onion  Salt 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  2  cups  boiling  water 

Sear  meat,  with  bacon,  chopped  pepper,  vinegar,  pepper  and 
mustard,  in  frying'pan.  Add  potatoes,  salt  to  taste,  and  water. 
Cover  frying-pan,  and  let  simmer  till  potatoes  are  cooked 
(about  one  hour). 

Left-Over  Dish 

Chopped  ham  Green  peppers 

Noodles  White  sauce 

Hard  boiled  eggs  Cheese 

Butter  a  casserole  dish.  A  layer  of  ham,  then  noodles,  eggs, 
green  peppers,  chopped  finely  with  ham;  layer  of  eggs;  then 
thin  white  sauce  flavored  with  cheese.  Continue  until  dish 
is  filled;  put  a  layer  of  buttered  bread  crumbs  on  top;  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  until  brown,  about  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Apples  StuflFed  with  Sausage  Meat 

Scoop  out  the  center  of  six  good  sized  apples,  leaving  a  thick 

shell  and  pulp  from  the  core. 

Chop  this  and  mix  with  one  cup  of  minced  cooked  sausage 

meat. 

Refill  the  apples  with  mixture  and  bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven 

until  tender.    Serve  with  baked  or  fried  potatoes  for  luncheon 

or  supper,  or  as  a  garnish  for  roast  pork  or  chicken. 

Baked  Ham,  Virginia  Style 

Mix  a  tablespoon  of  mustard  and  two  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
with  a  little  water  to  make  a  paste.  Spread  over  a  thick  sUce 
of  ham,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  in  enough  milk  and  water 
to  come  to  top  of  ham;  bake  until  done.   Baste  with  the  liquid 


156  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Beef  Loaf 

2  pounds  groxind  beef  1  large  can  tomatoes 

1  large  onion,  chopped  fine  Salt,  pepper 

1  cup  com  flakes 

Mix  all  together;  shape.  Bake  in  slow  oven  one  and  one-half 
hours. 

Pork  Chops  and  Potatoes 

4  pork  chops  Butter 

7  large  potatoes  Milk 

Flour 

Pare  and  slice  potatoes  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  about  one' 
half  hour.  Use  casserole  and  make  a  layer  of  potatoes  and 
sprinkle  with  salt,  bits  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  flour  over  top; 
make  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  repeat  until  casserole  is 
filled  with  enough  space  left  for  pork  chops.  Place  pork  chops 
on  the  top  of  these  layers  and  sprinkle  with  flour,  salt  and  milk 
enough  to  cover.  A  little  garlic  may  be  used  for  flavoring. 
Put  in  oven  and  let  bake  one  and  one-half  hours  with  cover 
on  casserole  until  almost  done,  and  let  stand  in  oven  without 
cover. 

Italian  Veal  or  Pork  Chops 

6  good  sizes  veal  or  pork         Yi  teaspoon  salt 
chops  2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  cups  canned  mushrooms  1  teaspoon  com  syrup 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  1  tablespoon  com  starch 

lYl  cups  water  Yl  cup  canned  tomato 

2  cloves  Yl  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
Few  grains  mace 

Broil  the  chops.  In  the  meantime,  cook  the  mushrooms  for 
five  minutes  in  the  vinegar  and  water  with  the  cloves,  mace 
and  the  salt.  Put  the  miashrooms  in  a  sauce  pan  with  the 
shortening  and  syrup  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  com 
starch,  the  tomato,  lemon  juice  and  the  salt  and  a  little  pepper 
to  taste.  Place  the  broiled  chops  on  a  platter  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  them.   Serve  with  boiled  rice. 


REQPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  157 

Kidney  Bean  Stew 

Yl  pound  bacon,  cut  in  cubes.   Fry  till  brown  with  two  green 
peppers  "done  to  a  turn."  Add  one  can  tomatoes,  one  can  red 
kidney  beans.    Simmer  over  slow  fire  one'half  hour. 
Serve  with  one'half  cup  grated  cheese  poured  over  stew  just 
before  placing  on  table. 

Ham  Loaf 

1  pound  ham,  1  pound  beef  Yz  teaspoon  salt 
ground  together  Pepper  to  taste 

2  eggs  1  medium  sa/t  can  of  tO' 
1  cup  bread  crumbs  matoes 

J4  cup  onions  chopped  fine 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  mix  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  onions  and 
then  put  this  mixture  with  the  ground  meat;  add  salt  and 
pepper.  Mix  well,  and  form  into  a  loaf.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  two  hours.  Use  a  shallow  pan  and  one  large 
enough  to  add  the  can  of  tomatoes.  About  one'half  hour 
before  the  loaf  is  finished,  add  the  can  of  tomatoes.  When 
loaf  is  done,  thicken  the  tomato  juice  with  a  flour 'water  mix- 
ture to  make  tomato  gravy. 

Meat  Loaf 

1  lb.  round  steak  1  egg 

1  lb.  pork  shoulder  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  onion  Yl  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

3  or  4  salted  crackers 

Grind  steak,  pork,  onion  and  crackers.  Add  unbeaten  egg, 
salt,  pepper  and  cloves.  Mix  well;  shape  into  loaf;  put  in 
casserole.  Bake  in  slow  oven  \Yi  hours. 

The  Virtue  of  Good  Soaking 

If  only  the  housewife  learns  the  value  of  soaking  various 
articles  of  food  before  preparing  them  for  the  table,  how  much 
better  would  be  the  results  of  her  cxilinary  arts.  For  instance, 
though  she  may  soak  bacon  for  twelve  hours  before  boiling  it, 
it  is  very  seldom  that  she  will  subject  poultry  to  the  same 


158  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

treatment.  Yet  the  oldest  boiling  fowl  if  duly  soaked  in  cold 
water,  will  prove,  when  cooked,  almost  as  tender  as  a  young 
chicken  and  lose  none  of  its  flavor  in  the  process.  It  is  well 
to  use  for  boiling  the  water  in  which  the  fowl  has  been  soaked. 
The  bird  may,  however,  be  steamed  above  the  water  instead 
of  being  actually  boiled  in  it.  This  will  increase  the  tenderness. 

White  Sauce 

V/z  tablespoons  flour  ]/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Melt  the  butter  and  remove  from  the  flame  before  it  browns. 

Add  the  flour  and  cook  until  it  bubbles.   Pour  on  half  the  hot 

scalded  milk  and  boil,  adding  the  rest  of  the  milk,  salt  and 

pepper. 

Use  more  flour  if  a  thicker  sauce  is  desired. 

Egg  Sauce 

Beat  two  yolks  and  add  %  cup  of  white  sauce.  Stir  well,  then 
add  the  rest  of  the  sauce  and  cook  over  a  low  flame  until  the 
sauce  thickens.    Use  hot  over  vegetables. 

White  Sauce  (for  croquettes) 

1/3  cup  flour  J/4  teaspoon  salt 

2J/2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

Melt  the  butter  and  remove  from  the  flame  before  it  browns. 

Add  the  flour  and  cook  until  it  bubles.    Pour  on  half  the  hot 

milk  and  then  the  rest  of  the  milk,  salt  and  pepper.    Keep 

stirring  to  prevent  lumps. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Lamb 

1/3  cup  chopped  fresh  1  tablespoon   powdered 

mint  sugar 

Yz  cup  vinegar 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar.    If  the  vinegar  is  strong, 
dilute  with  water.    Pour  over  the  mint  into  a  saucepan  and 
let  stand  over  a  very  small  flme  for  half  an  hour.   Serve  hot. 
Cold  mint  sauce  may  be  made  by  bringing  the  mint  leaves  to 
a  boil  and  then  allow  the  whole  sauce  to  cool  before  using. 


enus 


Relish — Celery  Hearts 

Soup — Creamed  Asparagus  Soup 

Salad — Combination  Fruit  Salad 

Meat — ^Jellied  Chicken 

Vegetables — Baked  Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Fresh  Green  String  Beans 

Baked  Irish  Potato 
Whole  Wheat  Bread  and  Butter 
Dessert — Fresh  Peaches  with  Cream 

Hamburg  Cakes  Mashed  Potatoes 

Creamed  Carrots 
Fruit  Dessert  Tea 

Chicken  Consomme 

Creamed  Chicken.  Dumplings 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Lettuce  Salad  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Green  Peas  Celery 

Coffee  Cocoanut  Cake 

Consomme  Bread  Sticks 

Jellied  Chicken  Loaf  Au  Gratin  Potatoes 

Green  Beans        Carrots  and  Peas 

Lettuce  Salad  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Fruit  Sherbet  Sponge  Cake 

Coffee 

159 


160  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cream  of  Barley  Soup 

Cold  Slaw  Salad 

Broiled  Larab  Chops  French  Fried  Potatoes 

Steamed  Young  Peaa  and  Carrot  Cubes 

Hot  Rolls 

Chilled  Berries  Iced  Tea 

Olives  Celery 

Roast  Chicken  Mashed  Potatoes 

Stewed  Sweet  Peas 

Fruit  Sherbet  Cake 

Coffee 

Baked  Ham  Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Buttered  Beans 

Cabbage  Salad 

Apple  Pie 

Swiss  Steak  Mashed  Potatoes 

Scalloped  Com  Boiled  Asparagus 

Celery  and  Cabbage  Salad 

Devils  Food  Cake  Coffee  or  Tea 

Roast  Veal 

Riced  Potatoes 

Buttered  Lima  Beans 
Beet  Salad 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

Bread    and    Butter 
Coffee 
Baked  Fish  with  Lemon  Cream  Sauce  , 

Potato  Salad 
Vegetable  Salad 

Green  Apple  Pie  with  American  Cheese 
Iced  Tea 

Chicken  and  Mushrooms  on  Toast 
Brussel  Sprouts 
Gingerbread  and  Cream 
Tea  or  Milk 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  161 

Dinner  Menu 

Grapefruit  Cocktail 

Entree  of  Baked  Halibut  with  Lemon  Butter  Sauce 

Olives  Radishes 

Roast  Breast  of  Veal,  Apple  Dressing 

Potato  Dumplings  Peas 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Lemon  Sherbet  Sunshine  Cake 

Coffee 

Menu 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup  Soup  Sticks 

Veal  Cutlets 

Rice 

Rolls  Butter 

Cucumber  Salad  Wafers 

Snow  Pudding,  Custard  Sauce 

Cakes  Coffee 

Dinner  Menu 

Cucumber  Ring  Mayonnaise 

Brown  and  White  Sandwiches 

Clear  Soup 

Celery,  Olives,  Radishes  and  Nuts 

Toast  Rings 

Broiled  Chicken  Breasts  and  Mushrooms      Thin  Cream  Gravy 

Carrot  Ring  and  Peas 

Rice  Timbale  on  Pineapple  Ring 

RoUs 

Grapefruit  and  Avacada  Pear  Salad  French  Dressing 

Cheese  Straws 

Raspberry  Ice  and  Vanilla  Mousse  Sponge  Drops 

Coffee 

Luncheon  Menu 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  Head  Lettijce  Salad 

Bread  Butter 

Chocolate  Drop  Cookies  Pineapple  Ice 

Iced  Tea 


162  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Hallowe'en  Festivities 

Chicken  Almond  Sandwiches 

Cream  Cheese  and  Pineapple 

Sandwiches 

Individual  Pumpkin  Pies 

Whipped  Cream 

Cider 


Piquant  Sandwiches 

Orange'Pecan  Salad  Gingerbread 

Coffee 


Curried  Eggs  on  Toast 

Baking'Powder  Biscuits 

Cider  Ice  Sponge  Cake 

Coffee  Salted  Nuts 


Creamed  Shrimps  with  Eggs 

Bread  and  Butter  Strips 

Spook  Salad  Cakes 

Coffee 


Thanksgiving  Dinners 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Roast  Turkey  Southern  Giblet  Gravy 

Potato  Croquettes 

Brussels  Sprouts 

CauUflower  with  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Romaine  Salad  French  Dressing 

Individual  Pumpkin  Pies 

Whipped  Cream  Cider  Ice 

Nuts  Raisins 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  163 

Halves  of  Grapefruit 

Roast  Duck  Apple  Stuffing 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Turnips  Cole' Slaw 

Baked  Squash  Cider 

Indian  Pudding  Foamy  Sauce 

Nuts  Coffee 


Fruit  Cocktail 

Chicken  Fricassee  Riced  Potatoes 

Celery  Buttered  Onions 

Squash  Pie 

Breakfast 

Orange  Juice 

Omelet 

Melba  Toast 

Coffee  or  Milk 

Lunch 

Macaroni  Waldorf  Salad 

Baked  Custard 

Cookies 

Dinner 

Oyster  Stew 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb 

Creamed  Potatoes  Spinach 

Watercress  Salad 

Skillet  Cake 

Breakfast 

Shced  Oranges 

Dry  Cereal 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast  Coffee 

Luncheon 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup 

Potato  Cakes 

Lettuce  and  Grapefruit  Salad 

Canned  Peaches 


164  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Dinner 

Tomato  Soup 

Baked  Halibut 

String  Beans  Mashed  Potatoes         Creamed  Lettuce 

Prune  Whip 

Breakfast 

Apple  Sauce 
Oatmeal  Cream 

Creamed  Dried  Beef 
Toast  Coffee  or  Milk 

Luncheon 

Salmon  Loaf 

Popovers  Grape  Jelly 

Tea 

Dinner 

Onion  Soup 

Stuffed  Cabbage  Carrots  and  Peas 

Lettuce  and  Egg  Salad 

Tapioca  Pudding 

Hot  Weather  Sunday  Meals 

Dinner 

Orange  Cocktail 

Pressed  Chicken  Creamed  Potatoes  en  Casserole 

Fresh  String-Bean  Salad 

Chocolate  Cornstarch  Pudding 

Supper 

Cucumber  Salad  with  Salmon  Dressing 

Brown  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Iced  .Tea  Cinnamon  Cake 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Lettuce  Soup 

Sliced  Cold  Lamb  Asparagus 

New  Potatoes  with  Butter  Sauce 

Peach  Ice  Cream  Sponge  Cake 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  165 

Supper 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  Graham  Bread 

Cream  Cheese  Sandwiches 
Bhieberry  Cake  Iced  Fruit  Punch 


Cold  Weather  Sunday  Meals 

Dinner 

Vegetable  Soup 

Lamb  Chops  Sauted  Bananas 

Buttered  Carrots 

Orange  Bavarian  Cream 

Supper 

Lobster  and  Mushroom  en  Casserole 
Brown  Bread  and  Lettuce  Sandwiches 
Nut  Cake  Tea 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Chicken  en  Casserole  Steamed  Rice 

Scalloped  Onions 

Baked  Apple  and  Cream 

Supper 

Curried  Eggs  in  Chafing  Dish  Hot  Biscuits 

Fruit  Salad 


Dinner  Menu 

Fruit  Salad  with  Crackers 

Split  Pea  Soup 

Baked  Trout  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Creamed  Mashed  Potatoes  and  Butter  Peas 

Lettiice  with  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Coffee  Chocolate  Cake 


166  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Menus 

Rice  Soup 

Roast  Beef  Mashed  Potatoes 

Whole  Cereal  Bread 

Carrots  and  Green  Beans 

Cabbage  Salad  Apple  Pie 

Coffee 

Breakfast 

Sliced  Oranges 

Farina 

Scrambled  Eggs  on  Toast 

Cocoa 

Lunch 

Creamed  Salmon  on  Toast 
Mexican  Salad 
Baked  Custard 
Milk 

Dinner 

Meat  Cakes 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Combination  Salad,  French  Dressing 

Sliced  Pineapple 

Dinner 

Tomato  Soup 

Roast  Veal  with  Brown  Gravy 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Lettuce,  Orange  and  Tomato  Salad 

Custard  Pie 

Dinner 

Fresh  Fruit  Cocktail 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops  Creamed  Peas 

French  Fried  Potatoes  Tomato  and  Chopped  Celery  Salad 

French  Dressing 

Rye  Bread  Toast 

Peach  Custard  with  Cream 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  167 


Dinner 


Veal  Stew  Buttered  Cabbage 

Fresh  Fruit  Salad 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuits  Jelly 

Sour  Cream  Pic 

Coffee 


Dinner 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Meat  Loaf,  Tomato  Sauce 

Baked  Potatoes 

Com  on  Cob  Buns 

Lemon  Pie 

Cereal  Coffee 

Supper 

Roast  Beef,  Browned  Potatoes  Scalloped  Cabbage 

Lettuce  with  Mayonnaise 

Apple  Dumplings 

Iced  Tea 

Supper 

Broiled  HaU'jut 

Mashed  Potatoes  Macaroni 

Tomato  Salad 

Coffee 

Supper 

Lamb  Chops  Green  Beans 

Head  Lettuce  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Chocolate  Souffle 

Tea 

Supper 

Pineapple  Fruit  Salad 

Virginia  Baked  Ham  Sauerkraut 

Mashed  Potatoes  Tomato  Salad 

Apple  Pie 

Coffee 


168  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Luncheon 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Celery  Hearts  Olives 

Creamed  Chicken 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Peas  Parker  House  Rolls 

Angel  Food  Cake       Pineapple  Whip 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast  Pork 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Baked  Tomatoes  and  Onions  Apple  Salad 

Indian  Pudding 

Coffee 

Sunday  Dinner  Menu 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad 

Fried  Spring  Chicken 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Peas  and  Diced  New  Carrots        Mashed  Yellow  Turnips 

Custard  Pie 

Coffee  or  Iced  Tea 

Dinner 

OHves  Celery 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 

Roast  Chicken  Sage  Dressing 

Mashed  Potatoes  Corn  on  Cob 

Combination  Salad,  Dressing 

Pineapple  Jello,  Whipped  Cream 

Peach  Cake  Coffee 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  169 

Cold  Weather  Breakfasts 


Hot  Baked  Apples  with  Cream 

Omelet,  Spanish 

Com  Meal  Muffins  Coffee 

II 

Orange  Juice 

Sausage  and  Fried  Apples 

Popovers  Jam  CoSee: 

m 

Prunes 

Whole  Wheat  Cereal  Ham  Toast 

Coffee 

IV 

Orange  Sections 
Oatmeal  Coffee 


Sliced  Bananas  with  Cream 

Bacon  and  Eggs 

Butter  Rolls  Coffee 

VI 

Sliced  Canned  Peaches 

Creamed  Drief  Beef  on  Toast 

Coffee 

VII 

Stewed  Dried  Apricots  and  Dates 

Scrambled  Eggs  on  Toast 

Farina  Coffee 


170  REQPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Menu  for  the  Week 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Cantaloupe 

Oatmeal  Cooked  in  Milk  Top  Milk 

Com  Fritters  Bacon 

Coffee 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

Fried  Tomatoes  with  Milk  Gravy 

Muffins  and  Butter  Baked  Custard 

Hot  or  Iced  Tea 

Dinner 

Braised  Steak 

Mashed  Potatoes  "Lady"  Cabbage 

Bread  and  Butter 

Beet  Salad  Peach  Shortcake 

Hot  or  Iced  Coffee 

Cheese  Nuts 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Pears 

Flakes  Top  Milk 

Plain  Omelet  Rolls  and  Bxitter 

Coffee 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup  with  Crackers 

Toasted  Egg  Salad  Sandwiches 

Stewed  Blueberries  Nut  Cookies 

Tea 

Dinner 

Broiled  Veal  Chops 

Creamed  Potatoes  Com  on  the  Cob 

Bread  and  Butter 

Fruit  Betty  Hard  Sauce 

Hot  Coffee  or  Tea 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  171 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Prunes 

Farina  Top  Milk 

Shirred  Eggs 

Com  Muffins  and  Butter  Coffee 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

Potatoes  and  Egg  Salad 

Boiled  Dressing 

Graham  Rolls  and  Butter         Caramel  Bread  Pudding 

Coffee  or  Tea 

Dinner 

Nut  Loaf  Peanut  Cream  Sauce 

Cauliflower  and  Brussels  Sprouts 

Bread  and  Butter  Cucumber  Salad 

Blueberry  Mold  Cream 

Coffee  or  Iced  Tea 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Apricots  Nut  Loaf  (Browned) 

Coffee  (adults)  Milk  (children) 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

Creamed  Salmon 

Lettuce  Dressed  at  the  Table 

Coffee  Cake  Coffee  or  Tea 

Dinner 

Brown  Fricassee  of  Chicken 

Mashed  Potatoes  String  Beans 

Bread  and  Butter 

Cole-Slaw 

Charlotte  Russe  Coffee  or  Tea 


172  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Baked  New  Apples 

Kominy  Top  Milk 

Boiled  Eggs 

Toast  and  Butter 

Coffee  (adults)  Milk  (children) 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

Stewed  Fresh  Lima  Beans 

Sliced  Tomatoes  with  French  Dressing 

Raisin  Bread  and  Butter 

Iced  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Chicken  Stew  with  Dumplings 

Fried  Egg  Plant 

Lettuce  and  Pepper  Salad 

Sponge  Cup  Cakes  (left  overs)  with  Rich  Cocoa  Sauce 

Hot  or  Iced  Coffee 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Peaches 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef  with  Potatoes 

Rolls  Butter 

Coffee 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

Macaroni  in  Cheese  Sauce 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Grapes 

Hot  or  Iced  Tea 

Dinner 

Beefsteak  Pie  Buttered  Carrots 

Bread  and  Butter 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Old'fashioned  Baked  Apple  Sauce  with  Cream 

Cake  Coffee  or  Tea 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  17: 

SATURDAY 
Breakfast 

Sliced  Bananas  in  Cream 
Flakes  Top  Milk 

Waffles  Honey- 

Toast  and  Butter 
Coffee 
Luncheon  or  Supper 
Tomato  and  Cheese  Stew 
Crackers  and  Butter  Warm  Gingerbread 

Hot  or  Iced  Tea 

Dinner 

Baked  Stuffed  Fish 
Potatoes  en  Casserole  Stewed  Onions 

Bread  and  Butter 
Combination  Salad  Uncooked  Fruit  Pie 

Coffee  or  Tea 
Nuts  , 

DINNER 

Grapefruit  Cocktail 

Panned  Chicken 

Com  Fritters  String  Beans 

Glaced  Sweet  Potatoes 

Hearts  of  Lettuce  Russian  Dressing 

Pumpkin  Pie  Cheese 

Demi  Tasse 

AN  AUTOMOBILE  LUNCH 

Cold  Sliced  Ham  with  Parker  House  Rolls 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches  with  Celery  and  Olive  Filling 

Potato  Salad  Dill  Pickles 

Chocolate  Cake  Coffee 


Baked  Ham  Cider  Sauce 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Green  Beans  Head  Lettuce  Salad 

Peach  Cobbler 


174  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Split  Pea  Soup 

Baked  Stuffed  Fish  Parsley  Potatoes 

Boiled  Onions 

Sliced  Buttered  Beets  Molded  Cucumber  Salad 

Cake  and  Coffee 


Vegetable  Soup 

Veal  Cutlets  Horseradish 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Dressed  Celery  Creamed  Lima  Beans 

Cherry  Pie 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced  Oranges  ReadytO'serve  Cereal 

Creamed  Beef  on  Toast 

Coffee  or  Milk 

LUNCHEON 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  Butter 

Peach  Cobbler  with  Milk 

Milk 

DINNER 

Baked  Ham 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes  Creamed  Cabbage 

Sliced  Tomatoes  on  Lettuce 

Butter  Scotch  Pie  Coffee 


Relishes 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 

Filet  Mignon  on  Toast  with  Mushrooms 

Cottage  Fried  Potatoes 

Combination  Salad  with  Thousand  Island  Dressing 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  Waffles 

Coffee 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  175 

Oyster  Cocktail  Clear  Soup 

Olives  Celery  Radishes 

Broiled  Sirloin  Steak  (2  inches  thick) 

Mashed  Potatoes  Stewed  Tomatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  Honey 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad,  Garnished  with  Hard'boiled  Egg 

Mayonnaise 

Salted  Crackers  Cheese 


Campers  Breakfast 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  frying'pan.   Warm  one  can 
baked  beans  in  the  pan.  Break  three  eggs  into  it  and  scramble. 


Poultry 

The  food  value  of  poultry  is  its  protein  content.  Its  proper' 
ties  are  those  of  other  meats  but  poultry  is  more  easily  di- 
gested than  meat. 

Stewed  Chicken 

Have  a  four  to  five  pound  fowl  dressed  and  drawn  and  cut 
up  as  for  fried  chicken.  Rather  tough  birds  may  be  stewed 
and  found  very  good.  Put  the  cut'up  chicken  into  a  kettle, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  add  salt.  CJook  slowly  until  the 
chicken  is  tender. 
Serve  with  dumplings  or  with  rice. 

Fricassed  Chicken 

Prepare  as  for  stewed  chicken  but  when  tender  remove  from 
the  liquid,  dip  in  flour  and  saute  in  fat  imtil  brown. 

Time  Table  for  Poultry 

Turkey  15  minutes  to  the  pound 
minutes  to  the  pound 
minutes  to  the  pound 
minutes  to  the  pound 
minutes  to  the  pound 
minutes  each 

Chicken  a  la  Maryland 

Clean  and  joint  a  young  chicken.    Dip  in  flour  mixed  with 
beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs.   Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Place  in  a  greased  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.    Baste  with  onc'half  cup  melted  butter. 
Serve  on  a  platter.    Pour  two  cups  hot  white  sauce  over  the 
chicken  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

176 


Goose 

20 

Chicken 

15 

Capon 

15 

Duck 

15 

Squab 

15 

RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  177 

Roast  Chicken 

Stuff  the  chicken  with  dressing,  allowing  some  space  for  the 
expansion  of  the  bread,  etc.,  for  the  stuffing.  Insert  some 
stuffing  through  the  slit  in  the  neck.  Sew  up  the  slit  in  the  neck 
and  in  the  body  with  white  heavy  cotton  thread. 
Truss  the  bird  by  drawing  the  thighs  close  to  the  body  and 
tying  or  fastening  with  a  skewer.  Draw  the  wings  in  close 
and  tie  them  also.  Fasten  the  neck  skin  down  to  the  wings 
and  tie  down  the  ends  of  the  drumsticks  so  they  will  not 
bum  off.  The  whole  bird  may  be  tied  together  with  string 
to  keep  all  parts  close  in  to  the  body. 

Place  the  stuffed,  trussed  chicken  in  a  covered  roaster.  Sprin- 
kle with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  roast,  removing  cover  of 
roaster  for  last  fifteen  minutes  so  that  chicken  will  brown. 
Remove  the  chicken  when  tendw  and  make  chicken  gravy 
from  juices  drawn. 

Chicken  a  la  King 

2  cups  diced  chicken  meat  1  tablespoon  capers 

1  can  mushrooms  ox  \Yz    .         Yl  teaspoon  salt 
cups  fresh  mushrooms  3  cups  rich  cream 

5  tablespoons  salad  oil  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  chopped  1  tablespoon  fat 
pimentos                                       Yolks  of  two  eggs 

5  tablespoons  chopped 

green  peppers 
Cook  the  mushrooms  for  five  minutes  in  the  oil.    Add  the 
chicken,  capers,  peppers  and  pimentos,  salt  and  paprika. 
Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour  and  cream.    Beat  the 
egg  yolks  and  pour  the  one  into  the  other.   Add  the  chicken 
mixture,  heat  thoroughly  and  serve  on  toasL 

Casseroled  Duck 

1  roasting  duck  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  beef  soup-stock  Yl  teaspoon  celery  salt 
1  pound  white  onions  1  small  bottle  pimento 
1  teaspoon    Worcestershire  olives 

sauce  1  lemon,  juice 

Yl  cup  brown  sugar  Pepper 


178  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Slice  the  onions  thin  and  brown  with  the  sugar  in  a  saucepan. 

Stew  until  onions  are  brown  and  dry. 

Spht  duck  down  the  back,  place  flat  in  a  large  baking  dish. 

Pour  over  the  soup-stock,  the  olives  halved,  the  olive  brine 

and  the  other  ingredients  and  seasoning. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  and  one-half  hours.   When 

done,  the  flesh  should  drop  from  the  bone.    Remove  the 

biggest  bones  and  serve  in  the  casserole. 

Chicken  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

Chicken  Pie  with  Rice 

Split  three  small  broilers  into  fourths.  Fry  until  about  half 
done.  Stir  one  tablespoon  butter  into  one  and  one-half  cups 
hot  cooked  rice.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  five  eggs 
and  stir  into  butter  and  rice.  Put  chickens  into  a  baking  dish, 
pour  over  the  rice  and  egg.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  twenty  minutes.   The  rice  should  brown  lightly. 

Jellied  Chicken 

1  cup  chopped  white  meat  Y^  cup  cold  water 

of  chicken  lJ/2  cups  milk  * 

1  cup  heavy  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

Yz  cup  hot  chicken  broth  3  egg  yolks 

\Yl  tablespoons   gelatine, 

granulated 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  the  hot  chicken  broth 
and  stir  until  the  gelatine  entirely  dissolves. 
Beat  yolks,  add  the  milk  and  cook  to  a  custard  in  a  double 
boiler.   Add  to  the  chicken  broth,  turn  in  the  minced  chicken 
and  season. 

Cool  and  add  the  cream  whipped  fairly  stiff.  Grease  a  ring 
mold.  Chill  over  night  in  the  ice-box.  Serve  at  luncheon, 
turning  out  of  mold  onto  a  round  platter  and  fill  the  center 
with  chilled  cooked  vegetable  salad. 

Chicken  with  Vegetable  Dressing 

Prepare  fowl  as  for  baking;  boil  whole  for  one  hour  wnth 
water  half  covering.  Turn  after  forty-five  minutes  and  im- 
merse the  part  out  of  the  water.  Salt  and  pepper  before 
starting  to  boil. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  179 

Prepare  the  stuffing  with  one  quart  bread  crumbs  moistened 
with  broth  from  fowl,  season  and  add  two  eggs,  one  grated 
potato,  one  carrot,  one  onion  and  small  parsnip  if  desired. 
Leaves  from  small  bunch  of  celery,  some  parsley,  one-half 
each  red  and  green  pepper,  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  spinach, 
shredded  mushroom,  if  desired  (and  a  half  pint  of  fresh 
oysters  make  it  delicious,  but  may  be  omitted,  if  desired). 
Mix  vegetables  into  bread  crumbs,  add  one  heaping  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  salt  to  season  the  vegetables,  pepper  to  taste. 
Lift  fowl  from  broth  and  fill  with  stuffing.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  tender  and  the  vegetables  are  cooked. 

Chicken  Timbales  with  Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 
Chicken  Timbales 

Chop  raw  breast  of  chicken  and  then  pound  until  smooth 
enough  to  force  through  a  fine  strainer.  To  Yz  cup  of  the 
strained  chicken  gradually  add  two  egg  whites  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Then  add  gradually  one  cup  of  cream.  Season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  into  slightly  buttered  tim- 
bale  cups,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  delicately  firm.  Remove 
from  molds,  pour  white  sauce  around  each  serving  and  sprinkle 
with  paprika. 

Sauted  Chicken  Livers  and  Mushrooms 

12  chicken  livers  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  mushrooms  Salt  and  pepper 

Use  only  the  tops  of  the  mushrooms  which  have  been  peeled 
and  washed.    Saute  the  mushrooms  in  butter. 
Parboil  the  chicken  livers  and  add  them  to  the  sauted  mush- 
rooms.   Season  and  serve  on  toast  with  the  butter  in  which 
the  mushrooms  cooked. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

ly^  cups  chopped  cold  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

cooked  chicken  1    teaspoon   finely   chopped 

Yl  teaspoon  celery  salt  parsley 

Few  grains  cayenne  1  cup  thick  white  sauce 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cool.  Shape  and  fry  as  cro' 
quettes. 


180  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Brochette  of  Chicken  Livers 

12  chicken  livers  6  slices  bacon 

6  metal  or  wood  skewers 

Cut  each  strip  of  bacon  into  four  pieces.  Put  a  piece  of  bacon, 

a  piece  of  parboiled  liver  alternately  onto  the  skewer  until  it 

is  filled.    Fry  in  bacon  fat  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  turn 

the  skewers  frequently  so  the  whole  will  brown  evenly. 

Drain  the  fat  and  serve  on  the  skewers  on  toast. 

Pate  de  Foies  Gras 

2  dozen  chicken  livers  1  teaspoon   chopped  onion 

1  truffle  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

Parboil  the  chicken  livers,  drain  and  cool.    When  cold,  put 

through  the  food  chopper  twice. 

Brown  the  onion  and  parsley  in  the  butter,  remove  from  the 

fire. 

Add  the  chopped  truffle  and  the  need  chicken  livers.    Stir 

smooth  and  keep  in  a  crockery  dish  in  the  icebox. 

The  truffle  may  be  omitted  if  difficult  to  obtain. 

Serve  on  toast  as  an  appetizer. 

Chicken  and  Rice 

3  small  broilers  5  eggs 

lJ/2  cups  cooked  rice  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Split  the  chicken  in  quarters  and  fry  until  half  done.    Heat 

the  rice  and  stir  in  the  butter  and  seasoning.   Add  the  beaten 

eggs  and  stir  in  well.    Put  the  chickens  in  a  baking  dish, 

cover  with  the  rice  and  egg  mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderate 

oven  for  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

Casseroled  Chicken 

1  roasting  chicken  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  soup-stock  Yi  teaspoon  celery  salt 

Yz  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
1  pound  white  onions  sauce 

1  cup  chopped  stuflFed  Juice  of  one  lemon 
green  oHves 


REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  181 

Slice  the  onions  thin  and  simmer  dry  and  brown  in  brown 
sugar.  Split  the  chicken  down  the  back  and  lay  in  a  large 
casserole  covered  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  the 
sugar  and  onions. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  lYi  hours.  Remove  the  biggest 
bones  and  serve  in  the  casserole. 

Fried  Spring  Chicken 

lYz  pound  spring  chicken 

Dress,  clean  and  cat  the  chicken  in  half  through  the  back 

and  breast  bones.    Dip  each  half  in  bread  crumbs,  then  in 

beaten  egg  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  once  more  in 

the  bread  crumbs.    Fry  in   butter  until  well  browned   and 

tender.   Use  enough  fat  or  butter  so  that  the  chicken  will  not 

bum. 

The  chicken  may  be  fried  in  deep  fat.    Dredge  first  with 

flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  to  a  rich  brown. 

Rub  fat  into  the  chicken,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a 

pan  in  a  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Stufimg  Squabs 

The  delicate  flavor  of  squabs  may  be  brought  out  by  adding 
a  few  tablespoons  of  orange  juice  to  the  stuffing. 
If  squabs  are  broiled  or  roasted  add  two  tablespoons  of  orange 
juice  and  the  grated  rind  of  the  orange  to  the  gravy. 

Baked  Squabs 

6  squabs  2  large  tomatoes 

6  boiled  potatoes  1  large  onion,  chopped 

Yz  chopped   green   pepper  Salt  and  pepper 

Let  the  squabs  stand  for  half  an  hour  in  salty  water,  after 

they  have  been  dressed  and  washed. 

Chop  all  the  other  ingredients  together  and  mix  well,  season 

to  taste.    Stuff  the   squabs  with  this   dressing   and   arrange 

them  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  sHce  of  bacon  over  each. 

Roast  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pigeon  Pie 

6  pigeons  1  tablespoon  butter 

6  strips  bacon  2  cups  soup'Stock 

1  tablespoon  flour  3  onions,  quartered 


182  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Have  the  pigeons  cleaned  and  place  in  a  glass  baking  dish  or 
casserole  with  a  strip  of  bacon  on  each  bird.  Bake  for  £ve 
minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  soup 
stock,  salt  and  pepper  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Add  the 
onions  and  set  the  pigeons  in  this  gravy.  Simmer  for  one 
hour  and  then  replace  the  pigeons  and  the  gravy  in  the 
baking  dish,  cover  with  a  baking  powder  or  pie  dough,  with 
incisions  for  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in  the  hot  oven  for 
another  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  in  the  baking  dish. 


Roast  Turkey 

Dress  and  clean  the  turkey.  Stuff  as  desired.  Truss  the  legs 
and  rub  salt  over  the  whole  bird. 

Cream  onchalf  cup  butter  with  one'fourth  cup  flour  and 
spread  over  the  breast  and  legs  of  the  turkey.  Place  in  a 
covered  roaster  and  roast  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes 
to  keep  in  the  juices.  Reduce  the  flame  and  roast  for  three 
to  four  hours. 

Test  the  turkey  by  pressing  the  breast  meat  with  the  finger. 
If  the  meat  is  soft,  the  turkey  is  done.  Do  not  pierce  with 
a  fork. 

Serve  with  the  stuflBng  left  in  and  with  cranberry  sauce. 


For  left-over  Pieces  of  Turkey 

Turkey  a  la  Creole 

Make  a  sauce  of  one  sliced  onion  and  two  chopped  green  pep' 
pers  browned  in  one  tablespoon  fat.  Add  one  can  tomato  soup 
and  one  tablespoon  flour.  Stir  all  together  and  season  vAth 
salt  and  add  one  teaspoon  sugar. 

Slice  the  turkey  and  arrange  the  slices  overlapping  at  the 
edge  in  a  baking  pan.  Dot  with  butter  and  heat  through 
Transfer  the  sliced  turkey  to  a  platter  and  pour  over  the 
Creole  sauce. 


REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  183 

Turkey  Hash  with  Rice 

2  cups  diced  turkey  meat  Yz  cup  strained  tomato 

1  cup  raw  rice  \yxi.<x. 

1  tablespoon  fat  2  cups  soup-stock 

1  chopped  green  pepper  2  egg  yolks 

1  minced  onion  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

1  small  tart  apple,  chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

Heat  the  fat,  and  brown  the  chopped  pepper,  and  minced 
onion  in  it.  Add  the  chopped  apple,  the  rice,  soup-stock, 
tomato  juice  and  seasoning.  Stir  in  the  diced  turkey  meat 
and  turn  all  into  a  casserole. 

Bake  in  the  covered  casserole  for  three-quarters  hour  in  a 
hot  oven.  Cover  the  top  of  the  hash  with  beaten  egg  yolks 
and  grated  cheese;  reheat  until  the  cheese  melts  and  serve 
with  hot  gravy. 

Roast  Goose 

Singe  and  wash  the  goose,  clean  well.    Dress,  clean  and  wash 

the  goose  and  rinse  the  inside  with  a  hot  solution  of  one  tea' 

spoon  soda  to  one  quart  of  water. 

Dry  and  rub  in  salt  both  inside  and  out.   Rub  with  lemon  or 

onion  as  desired. 

Stuff  and  truss  the  goose  and  bake,  allowing  twenty  minutes 

to  the  pound. 

Roast  Duck 

Draw,  clean,  singe  and  rinse  the  duck. 

Fill  the  cavity  with  whole,  pared  apples.    Do  not  use  these 

apples  for  serving  as  they  are  employed  to  stuff  out  the  duck 

and  to  take  in  the  strong  flavor  of  duck. 

Dredge  with  flour  and  tie  bacon  or  salt  pork  over  the  breast. 

Roast  in  a  covered  roaster,  on  a  rack,  for  twenty  minutes  in 

a  very  hot  oven  (500  degrees  F.)  and  then  reduce  the  heat  to 

400  degrees  F.  for  the  remainder  of  the  time.    Remove  the 

pork  or  bacon  when  reducing  the  heat.   Allow  fifteen  minutes 

to  the  pound. 


184  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Baked  Rabbit 

1  rabbit  1  teaspoon  sage 

3  tablespoons  fat  4  cups  thin  white  sauce 

1/3  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  strips  bacon 

Dress  and  clean  the  rabbit  and  cut  into  pieces  for  serving. 

Mix  the  flour,  sage  and  salt;  roll  the  rabbit  pieces  in  this  mix' 

ture.   Saute  in  the  fat  until  brown  all  over. 

Put  the  rabbit  pieces  into  a  casserole  and  lay  bacon  strips 

over  them.    Pour  on  the  white  sauce.    Bake  for  two  or  more 

hours  in  a  moderate  oven.   The  meat  must  be  tender. 

Rabbit  Stew 

Dress  and  clean  the  rabbit  and  disjoint  into  pieces  suitable 

for  serving.    Put  in  a  kettle  with  six  small  onions,  a  bay  leaf, 

half  a  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  season  with  two  teaspoons 

salt. 

Cook  slowly  for  two  hours  with  water  to  cover. 

Add  three  potatoes  which  have  been  pared  and  quartered. 

Thicken  with  three  tablespoons  flour  made  into  a  paste  with 

a  little  cold  water. 

When  the  gravy  thickens,  add  parsley  chopped  fine  and  serve. 

Bread  Stuffing 

Use  very  stale  bread  crumbs  for  sutfBng.  Put  four  cups  of 
coarse  bread  crumbs  into  a  bowl  and  pour  on  one  cup  boiling 
water.  Let  absorb  for  half  an  hour.  Squeeze  out  any  excess 
water,  leaving  moist  but  not  soppy  breadcrumbs.  Beat  one 
egg  and  add  together  with  half  a  cup  of  melted  fat. 
Mix  together  one  cup  chopped  celery,  one  chopped  onion  and 
minced  parsley.  Combine  this  with  the  bread-crumb  mixture 
and  stuff  poultry.   This  amount  will  fill  a  six-pound  bird. 

Celery  Stuffing 

Yl  bunch  celery  Yi  teaspoon  pepper 

2  eggs  1  quart  stale  bread  crumbs 
2  tablespoons  salt 

Chop  the  celery.  Mix  the  celery  with  the  sak  and  pepper  and 
add  the  shghtly  beaten  eggs. 

Melt  the  fat  or  butter  and  add  the  bread  crumbs.    Combine 
the  two  mixtures  and  use  to  stuff  chickens  preferai)ly. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  185 

Oyster  Stuffing  for  Turkey 

1  pint  oysters  Y4  cup  butter  or  fat 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  add  to  the  melted  butter. 

Chestnut  Stuffing 

1  quart  large  chestnuts  Onion  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  Chopped  parsley 

1  egg  Turkey  liver,  chopped 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  cream 

Shell  and  blanch  the  chestnuts  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until 
tender.   While  hot,  press  through  a  ricer  or  chop  fine. 
Add  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  all  well  together. 

Apple  Stuffing 

5  sour  apples  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Pepper 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  the  apples  and  stew  until  half  done. 

Mix  with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  stuflF  into  the  bird 

and  roast. 

Creme  de  Volaille 

1  boiled   chicken   meat.         White  sauce  made  of  1  ta* 
ground  blespoon  butter,   1   tabic 

2  raw  eggs  spoon  flour;  Yz  pint  milk 
1  small  onion,  salt  and  pep' 

per 
Cook  sauce,  mix  with  the  above  ingredients  and  place  in  but' 
tercd  mold;  steam  for  lYl  hours.  Serve  on  platter  with  creamed 
peas  all  around  it. 

Escalloped  Chicken  for  Luncheon 

Cook  chicken  until  it  falls  away  from  the  bones;  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Two  pints  chicken,  two  pints  broth,  one  pint  cracker 
crumbs,  three  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  all  together  and  put  in 
pan.  Bake  about  thirty  minutes  or  until  nicely  browned.  Serve 
with  a  ring  of  sweet  green  pepper  on  each  portion.  Will  serv^e 
sixteen. 


186  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Oven  Fried  Chicken 

Take  a  3  pound  young  chicken,  cut  up  as  for  frying.  Salt  and 
roll  in  flour,  put  Yi  cup  of  melted  butter  in  baking  pan.  Place 
chicken  in  pan  and  cover  with  sweet  milk;  sprinkle  with  pep- 
per. Bake  until  tender,  turning  so  it  will  brown  on  all  pieces. 
You  will  find  this  a  change  and  delicious. 


cWacip 


SALADS  AND  SALAD 
DRESSINGS 

Chicken  Salad 

2  cups  diced  cold  chicken  1  cup  oil  mayonnaise 

1  cup  cut  celery 

Have  all  the  ingredients  chilling  in  the  ice-bcx.    Mix  the 

dressing  well  into  the  chicken  and  celery  and  serve  on  lettuce 

leaves. 

Garnish  with  radishes,  ripe  and  green  olives. 


J/2  cup  mayonnaise 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 


Chicken  Salad 

1  cup  white  grapes  seeded 

2  cups  chicken,  diced 
1  cup   celery   cut   in   small 

pieces 
Combine  celery  and  grapes.   Mix  mayonnaise,  salt  and  lemon 
juice.    Chill  for  an  hour.    Just  before  serving,  combine  the 
mixture. 

Crab  Meat  Salad 

1  pound  crab  meat  Lettuce 

4  hard  cooked  eggs  Salt  to  taste 

Yl  cup  almonds  Pepper 

1  green  pepper  Dash  paprika 

Bone  crab  meat  cut  in  good  sized  pieces.   Cut  whites  of  eggs 

in  cubes.    Blanch  and  chop  almonds.    Mix  crab  meat,  eggs 

and  nuts  with  a  good  mayonnaise.    Add  salt    Serve  on  let' 

tuce.    Garnish  with  green  pepper  strips,  riced  yolk  of  eggs 

and  paprika. 

187 


188  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Fig  Salad 

One  canful  finely  cut  figs  mixed  with  one  paxJcage  cream 
cheese  previoudy  thinned  with  sweet  cream.  Pour  over 
shredded  lettuce  and  top  with  a  spoonful  of  salad  dressing. 

Fruit  Salad 

2  oranges  •  2  eggs 

2  bananas  Speck  mustard,  salt,  pepper 
1  grapefruit  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

Yl  pound  white  grapes  1  cup  whipped  cream 

1/3  cup  shelled  nuts 

Skin  the  fruit,  seed  the  grapes  and  cut  the  fruit  in  pieces. 
Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  vinegar  and  seasoning  and  cook  until 
thickened  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  smooth.  Cool  and  beat  in 
the  whipped  cream.  Chopped  marshmallows  may  be  added 
here.  Pour  over  the  fruit  which  has  been  arranged  on  lettuce 
leaves.    Garnish  with  nuts  and  chill  before  serving. 

Frozen  Fruit  Salad 

2/3  cup  heavy  cream.    Beat  until  stiff  and  gradually  beat  in 
1/3  cup  mayonnaise  dressing. 
1  teaspoon  gelatine  soaked  in 

3  tablespoons  pineapple  juice  and  dissolved  over  hot  water. 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and 

1  tablespoon  maraschino  syrup.    Fold  in. 

Yl  cup  canned  apricots 

Yl  cup  bananas 

14  cup  pineapple 

Yl  cup  maraschino  cherries,  all  cut  in  small  pieces.    Freeze 

like  ice  cream  and  serve  on  salad  leaves. 

Pimento  Salad  for  Sandwiches 

Yl  pound  boiled  ham  Small  can  pimento 

Ya  pound  walnut  meats 

Grind  all  together  and  mix  with  mayonnaise. 


REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  189 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Pare  medium  sized  tomatoes,  scoop  out  centers  and  chill.  Fill 
with  chopped  celery  and  hard  cooked  egg  moistened  with 
mayonnaise.  Decorate  top  with  cream  cheese  rosettes  and 
nuts. 

Peach  Pecan  Salad 

Select  ripe,  juicy  peaches.  Peel  off  the  skin,  cut  in  medium, 
pieces,  blend  with  a  small  amount  of  mayonnaise.  Place  a 
crisp  lettuce  leaf  on  individual  salad  plates,  and  then  a  gen' 
erous  serving  of  salad.  Sprinkle  with  salted  pecans^  and  serve 
chilled. 

Perfection  Salad 

1  can   sliced  pineapple  cut  1  cup  sweet  pickle  diced 

fine  1  small  can  pimento 

1  cup  pecan  meats  chopped  fine 

Dissolve  one  package  mint  jello  in  one  pint  boiling  water  and 
when  cool  add  pineapple,  pecans,  pickles  and  pimentoes.  Put 
into  molds  and  when  solid,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  any 
good  salad  dressing  mixed  half  and  half  with  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Gelatine  Salad 

1  cup  pineapple  juice  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

3  slices  pineapple  J/2  can  pimento 

1  package  gelatine  1  cxjcumber 

1  cup  water 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  boiling  water. 

Shce  the  cucumber  fine  and  salt.    Drain  off  the  water  before 

using. 

Add  the  pineapple  and  lemon  juice  to  the  gelatine  and  chill. 
When  the  gelatine  begins  to  set,  add  the  pineapple  cut  into 
cubes,  the  chopped  pimento  and  the  cucumber  slices. 
Turn  into  a  large  mold  or  a  ring  or  use  small  individual 
molds.  Chill  until  the  gelatine  is  very  firm.  Serve  with  a 
cream  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Serves  six. 


190  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Pineapple  and  Cream  Cheese  Salad 

6  slices  canned  pineapple  Chopped  walnut  meats 

1  cake  cream  cheese  French  dressing 

Put  one  slice  of  pineapple  on  each  salad  plate  resting  pine- 
apple on  lettuce  leaf.  Roll  the  cream  cheese  into  balls  and 
roll  in  chopped  nuts. 

Place  one  ball  in  the  center  of  the  pineapple  slice  and  pour 
french  dressing  over  it.  Must  be  served  cold. 

Carrot  and  Pineapple  Salad 

1  cup  grated  carrots  Juice  of  Yz  orange 

1  cup  minced  pineapple  1  pkg.  lemon  gelatine 

Pour  one  pint  boiling  water  over  gelatine  and  when  cool  put 
in  carrots  and  pineapple  (drained),  also  orange  juice.  Mix 
and  put  in  individual  molds.  This  makes  six  or  seven.  When 
firm  serve  on  lettuce  with  a  boiled  dressing  made  fluffy  with 
whipped  cream. 

Jellied  Cucumber  Salad 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  1  bay  leaf 

lYl  cups  water  1  blade  mace 

1  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  chopped  green 
3  cups  diced  cucumber  pepper 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  hot  water.    Simmer  the  spices  with 

the  vinegar  and  the  hot  water.   Strain  and  add  the  dissolved 

gelatine. 

Place  the  cucumbers  in  a  mold  and  distribute  the  chopped 

green  pepper  for  color;  pour  on  the  liquid  and  allow  the 

gelatine  to  set.    Set  on  ice  and  serve  very  cold  as  a  separate 

course. 

Waldorf  Salad 

2  cups  celery,  cut  small  Yl  cup  walnut  meats 
2  apples  Yl  cup  mayonnaise 
Wash  and  scrape  the  celery  and  keep  crisp  in  a  wet  towel 
on  the  ice.   Peel  the  apples  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 

Mix  the  ingredients  into  the  mayonnaise.  Serve  cold  on  let' 
tuce  and  garnish  with  chips  of  red  apple  peel. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  191 

Chiffonade  Salad 

2  green  peppers  3  small  tomatoes 
Watercress  2  medium  size  beets 
Chop  the  tops  of  the  watercress  leaves;  chop  the  peppers; 
cut  the  tomatoes  into  quarters  and  chop  the  beets.  Keep  each 
vegetable  separate  and  arrange  on  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle  one  chopped  egg  over  the 
dressing. 

Lima  Bean  and  Asparagus  Salad 

Drain  one  can  of  asparagus.    Open  the  can  at  the  bottom  so 

that  the  tender  tips  will  not  be  broken  when  the  stalks  are 

shpped  out. 

Take  equal  amount  of  sliced  cucumbers,  sliced  tomato  and 

cold  canned  lima  beans. 

Arrange  on   lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with   green  pepper 

rings. 

Chill  and  just  before  serving,  add  french  dressing. 

Kidney  Bean  Salad 

1  can  kidney  beans  1  stalk  celery  cut  fine 

10  sweet  slices  pickles  1  cup  mayonnaise 

Mix  ingredients.   Make  about  four  hours  before  using. 

Old  Fashioned  Potato  Salad 

1  cucumber  2  cups  diced  boiled  potatoes 

3  hard  cooked  eggs  Yz  medium  sized  onion 

6  tablespoons  of  mayon'  2  tablespoons  minced  green 

naise  pepper 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  or  Yz  head  lettuce 

vinegar 

Dice  potatoes  and  marinate  with  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 
Mix  mayonnaise  with  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Let  potatoes 
chill,  drain,  then  mix  with  minced  onion,  diced  cucumber  and 
six  tablespoons  mayonnaise  mixture.  Arrange  in  a  bowl  on  a 
nest  of  lettuce,  garnish  with  sliced  boiled  eggs  and  spoonful 
of  mayonnaise  with  chopped  green  pepper. 


192  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

German  Potato  Salad 

1  quart  cold  boiled  potatoes 

1  large  onion 

3  slices  of  chopped  bacon  fried  crisp.    Salt  and  p^per  to 

taste. 
3  tablespoons  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  sugar 

Cut  potatoes  in  cubes  or  slices,  add  chopped  onion,  crisp 
bacon,  bacon  grease,  vinegar  and  sugar.  Mix  this  well  and 
add  one  egg  well  beaten.  Last  add  one  teaspoon  hot  water  to 
keep  moist. 

Potato  Salad 

1  small  head  lettuce  2  cups  cooked  cubed  po- 

shredded  tatoes 

1  tomato  Yi  pound  bacon  squares 

1  medium  sized  onion  Salt 
Yl  small  cucumber 

Place  shredded  lettuce,  tomato,  onion,  cucumber  into  a  bowl 
and  add  the  salt.  Fry  out  the  bacon  squares  until  crisp,  then 
add  potatoes  and  stir  until  heated  through,  but  do  not  fry. 
Add  to  the  vegetables.  Take  one-quarter  cup  cider  vinegar 
and  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  mix  well.  Pour  this  over  the 
salad. 

Hot  Potato  Salad 

6  potatoes,  diced  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

6  slices  of  bacon  3  tablespoons  onion  in  long 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  thin  slices 
Yl  teaspoon  salt  Mayonnaise 

Y^  teaspoon  pepper  (Onion  may  be  left  out) 

6  tablespoons  of  bacon  fat 

Cook  potatoes  until  tender.  Cook  bacon  over  a  very  low 
flame,  until  crisp.  Remove  from  pan,  break  into  small  pieces 
and  add  to  hot  potato  cubes.  Cut  up  hard  cooked  eggs  into 
small  pieces,  and  add  eggs  and  seasoning.  Cut  green  pepper 
and  cmion.  Combine  fat  and  vinegar.  Pour  over  potato  mix- 
ture.  Then  add  mayonnaise.   Serve  hot  or  cold. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  193 

Potato  Salad 

6  cold  boiled  potatoes  1  cup  milk 

Yl  grated  onion  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  Yi  teaspoon  mustard 

Slice  the  potatoes,  add  the  white  of  eggs  chopped  and  then 
the  onion.  Mash  the  egg  yolks  and  mix  with  mustard,  salt 
and  pepper.  When  dry  ingredients  are  mixed  well  add  the 
vinegar.  Scald  the  milk  and  pour  into  the  egg  mixture,  add 
the  butter  and  then  pour  all  over  the  potato  mixture. 
Cool  and  serve  with  additional  boiled  mayonnaise  if  the  salad 
seems  dry. 

Molded  Egg  Salad 

6  eggs  2  packages  lemon  gelatine 

Boil,  and  stuff  eggs,  cutting  them  lengthwise,  removing  yel' 
lows,  and  season  as  desired  with  mayc«inaise,  salt,  pepper, 
paprika,  a  chopped  pickle  or  relish.  Put  back  together  and 
place  in  loaf  cake  pan.  Pour  gelatine  over  eggs  and  when  con- 
gealed,  turn  out  on  lettuce  leaves,  fill  hole  with  salad  dressing. 
This  is  very  attractive  served  at  the  table  by  the  hostess. 

Cinnamon  Apple  Salad 

8' 10  apples  Red  coloring 

2  cups  sugar  2'3  sticks  of  cinnamon 

1  cup  water 

Make  a  thin  syrup  of  sugar,  water,  cinnamon  and  coloring. 

Core  and  pare  apples.    Cook  in  syrup  until  tender  but  be 

careful  and  do  not  break.    Allow  to  cool.    Serve  on  lettuce 

leaf  with  salad  dressing.  The  center  may  be  filled  with  cream 

cheese  and  nuts.    This  is  a  very  delicious  salad.    It  may  be 

used  as  a  dessert  if  whipped  cream  is  used  instead  of  salad 

dressing. 

Butterfly  Salad 

Cut  slices  of  canned  pineapple  in  two.  Place  two  halves  with 
the  curved  sides  together  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  These  are  the  two 
wings.    Make  the  body  of  the  butterfly  with  a  stoned  date. 


194  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

the  feelers  of  candied  orange  peel,  the  spots  on  the  wings  of 
rings  of  stuffed  olives  or  maraschino  cherries.  Pass  the  mayon- 
naise or  place  it  beneath  the  butterfly. 

Spook  Salad 

Lettuce  Mayonnaise 

Celery  Peaches 

Apples  Cloves 

Red  grapes  Pimento 

Make  a  nest  of  shredded  lettuce.  On  this  place  a  salad  of 
celery,  grapes,  and  apples,  allowing  for  each  serving  about 
two  tablespoons  of  chopped  celery  and  chopped  apple  and 
six  grapes,  cut  in  halves,  and  blended  with  mayonnaise.  On 
this  salad  place  a  half  peach,  with  the  rounded  side  up.  In- 
sert  two  whole  cloves  for  the  eyes,  one  (with  the  large  end 
down)  for  the  nose,  and  a  narrow  strip  of  pimento  for  the 
mouth.  This  strip  may  be  placed  at  different  angles  to  give 
different  expressions.  This  salad  is  particularly  good  for  Hal- 
lowe'en parties. 

May  Morning  Salad 

1  bunch  water  cress  2  large  oranges 

1  bunch  fresh  onions  1  bunch  radishes 

Wash  and  clean  cress,  onions  and  radishes.    Arrange  water 

cress  on  a  salad  plate,  place  in  center  finely  chopped  onions, 

then  diced  orange  and  garnish  with  radish  roses.    Serve  with 

French  dressing. 

Candlestick  Salad 

6  slices  canned  pineapple  1  green  pepper 

o  bananas  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

6  maraschino  cherries 

Cut  each  banana  in  half  crosswise  and  roll  in  the  lemon  juice. 
(The  lemon  juice  prevents  discoloration  of  the  bananas.)  Fit 
a  banana  half  into  the  hole  of  each  pineapple  shce  and  deco- 
rate the  top  with  a  cherry  to  imitate  the  flame.  Cut  the  pep- 
per in  thin  strips  and  place  a  curved  strip  at  the  side  of  the 
banana  to  represent  the  handle  of  the  candlestick.  Arrange 
on  shredded  lettuce  on  individual  plates  and  serve  with 
French  dressing. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  195 

Fruit  Salad 

6  oranges  1  cupnuts 

1  large  can  pineapple 
1  box  marshmallows,  cut  in 
small  cubes 

Veal  Salad 

(Mock  Chicken  Salad) 

Two  pounds  of  veal.  Cook  until  tender,  adding  one  bay  leaf, 
one-half  onion  and  salt  to  taste.  When  done  and  cold,  cut  up 
to  small  pieces,  then  add  onc'half  can  small  peas,  a  stalk  celery 
cut  up,  and  grate  a  half  onion.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  serve  with  head  lettuce. 

Celery  Salad 

For  this  salad  the  celery  must  be  very  young.  Clean  it  well 
and  cut  it  into  small  bits.  Serve  with  a  French  dressing  and 
some  hard'boiled  eggs  cut  in  halves. 

Canned  Kidney  Bean  and  Vegetable  Salad 

1   medium  size  can  kidney  1  red  pimento 

beans  J/2  cup  diced  celery 

1  hard'boiled  egg  Yi  cup  black  walnut  meats 

6  small  sweet  pickles 

Chop  pickles  and  nuts.  Mix  all  ingredients.  Marinate  in  the 
following  dressing  for  one  hour,  then  serve  with  mayonnaise. 
Dressing:  Beat  together  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  Yi  teaspoon 
salt,  4  tablespoons  salad  oil. 

Green  String  Bean  Salad 

1  cup  cooked  green  beans  1  teaspoon  salt 

Y\  cup  cut  celery  J/4  teaspoon  paprika 

Ya  cup  pimento,  cut  fine  Yl  cup  salad  dressing 

1  hard  cooked  egg,  diced  6  pieces  of  lettuce 

Mix  thoroughly  the  beans,  celer>%  pimento,  egg,  salt  and 
paprika.  Add  the  salad  dressing  and  serve  on  a  piece  of  crisp 
lettuce. 


196 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 


Frozen  Cheese  Ring 

1  can  pineapple 

1  bottle  maraschino  cherries 

1  can  pimentos 

1  large  green  pepper 


1  cup  walnuts 

2  cakes  cream  cheese 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

Yl  pint  whipping  cream 


Chop  the  fruits  and  nuts.  Cream  all  together.  Dissolve  two 
tablespoons  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Add  half  glass 
boiling  water.  When  the  gelatine  starts  to  stiffen,  add  the  first 
Biixture,  pour  into  a  mould  and  chill  in  the  ice  box. 


Tuna  Fish  Salad 

Yl  lb.  can  tuna  fish,  minced 
Yl  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  onion,  cut  fine 

2  pieces  celery,  cut  fine 
Mix  ingredients  and  add  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  sour  cream- 
Mix  well  together  and  serve  on  hearts  of  head  lettuce  which 
have  been  washed,  dried  and  chilled.  Serve  on  slice  of  tomato. 


4  green  olives,  cut  in  pieces 
1  hard-boiled  egg,  cut  up  in 
fine  pieces 


Combination  Salad 

1  cupful  of  chopped  chicken 

1  cupful  celery,  1  cupful  ap' 
pies 

2  oranges 

Let  stand  Yl  hour,  then  mix  with  2  chopped  red  peppers  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce. 


2  hard-boiled  eggs 
2  tablespoonsful  of  chopped 
nuts 


Pea  Salad 

Drain  can  of  peas 

1  cup  of  peas 

4  tablespoons  chopped 

sweet  pickle 
4  tablespoons  chopped 

onions 
Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  whipped  cream.    Salt  to 
taste. 


4  tablespoons  chopped 

cheese 
4  tablespoons  chopped  hard 

boiled  eggs 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  197 

Frozen  Walnut  and  Cheese  Salad 

J4  pound  cheese;  put  through  food  chopper  with 
Yn  cup  walnut  meats,  and 

1  chopped  pimento.    Fold  in 
Yl  cup  cream  beaten  until  stiff, 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 

2  tablespoons  green  peppers,  chopped,  and 

2  tablespoons  celery,  chopped.    Season  with  a  little  salt. 

Put  into  small  round  mold,  previously  chilled.   Pack  in  ice  and 

salt  for  four  hours.   Slice  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  thousand 

island  dressing. 


Beet  Salad 

Drain  one  large  can  of  beets  or  an  equal  amount  of  fresh' 
cooked  beets — chop  in   small  pieces.    Add  one  small  onion, 
finely  chopped;  one  tablespoon  vinegar;  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  and  one  tablespoon  mustard. 
Serve  as  a  salad  or  a  relish. 


Shrimp  Salad 

1  can  shrimp  1  green  pepper,  chopped 

2  tart  apples,  diced  2  hard  cooked  eggs,  sliced 
8  stuffed  olives,  sliced 

Break  shrimp  into  pieces,  mix  with  other  ingredients  and  stir 
in  enough  mayonnaise  to  bind.  Serve  cold  on  lettuce  leaves. 
The  apples  are  a  valuable  addition  to  the  flavor  of  the  salad. 


Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Wash  perfectly  formed  tomatoes,  cut  in  shape  of  baskets, 
removing  seeds  and  pulp.  Mix  a  little  of  the  pulp  with  cold 
cooked   peas»  well   seasoned  French  dressing  and  refill  the 

baskets. 


198  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Twenty  Four  Hour  Salad 

Dressing: 

1  large  can  sliced  pineapple  4  beaten  egg  yolks — ^add  % 

(diced)  cup  sweet  cream 

Yz  pound  marshmallows  Pinch  of  salt 

(quartered)  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Yz  pound  almonds,  1  tablespoon  sugar 

blanched  and  chopped 
1  bottle  red  maraschino 

cherries 

Mix  this  together  and  let  come  to  a  boil  in  a  double  boiler. 
Boil  until  thick  and  smooth;  let  cool  and  add  one  cup  whipped 
cream.  Now  mix  this  dressing  with  fruit  and  set  in  cool  place 
for  24  hours.   Serve  on  lettuce. 


Pineapple  Supreme  Salad 

Arrange  tender  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plate — on  these  place 
a  slice  of  pineapple;  in  middle  of  slice  put  a  ball  of  cottage 
cheese  a  little  larger  than  a  walnut.  Over  this  put  a  tablespoon 
of  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  paprika. 


Tuna  Fish  or  Salmon  Salad 

1  small  can  tuna  fish  or  Yz         Small  stalk  celery 

can  salmon 
Dressing: 

Yz  cup  sugar  Yz  cup  vinegar  and  butter 

Yz  cup  water  size  of  walnut 

Bring  to  a  boil  and  add  one  egg  yolk,  one  and  one-half  heaping 
teaspoons  flour,  one  teaspoon  dry  mustard.  When  thick  enough, 
partly  cool  and  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  one  stiffly 
beaten  egg  white. 

To  serve,  arrange  the  fish  and  celery  on  lettuce;  thin  the 
dressing  with  very  rich  milk  or  cream;  pour  over  the  salad  and 
garnish  with  hard  cooked  eggs  cut  in  thin  slices. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  199 

Pineapple  and  Date  Salad 

Thoroughly  drain  one  cup  crushed  pineapple.  Discard  pits 
from  one  cup  dates  and  cut  in  pieces.  Mix  with  pineapple  and 
arrange  on  lettuce.   Serve  with  French  dressing. 


Hot  Cabbage  Salad 

Yl  medium  sise  head  cab'  1  green  pepper 

bage  1  small  onion 

1  stalk  celery 

Cut  all  fine  and  put  in  cold  water  to  crisp;  then  drain. 
Dice  two  slices  of  bacon;  fry  brown;  remove  from  grease  and 
add  to  cabbage  mixture.  Put  one  tablespoon  of  flour  in  grease, 
add  onc'half  cup  water  and  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cook  to  thick  gravy 
and  mix  in  cabbage  mixture  while  hot,  and  serve. 


Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

4  eggs         ■  Yl  cup  lemon  juice. 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  pineapple  juice 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Beat  eggs;  add  sugar.  Mix  flour  with  pineapple  juice;  add 
lemon  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cold 
and  ready  to  serve,  thin  with  cream  to  as  thick  as  wanted. 
Arrange  fruit  on  lettuce  and  pour  dressing  over  all  when  ready 
to  serve. 


Salad  Dressing  for  Vegetables 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  cornstarch 

1  teaspoon  mustard  3  teaspoons  butter 

3  teaspoons  sugar  Yolks  2  eggs 
Few  grains  pepper 

Mix  well,  then  add  three'fourths  cup  hot  milk.   Put  on  stove 
and  stir  constantly  whik  adding  one-fourth  cup  hot  vinegar. 


200  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cream  Cheese  Dressing 

Yl  cup  French  dressing  Yi  cup  cream  cheese 

Y9,  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Mash  the  cream   cheese  and  blend  gradually  with  French 

dressing.    Season  with  onion  juice. 

Mayonnaise 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Yz  teaspoon  mustard  (dry) 

1  tablespoon  flour  1/3  cup  vinegar  and  water 

1  egg 

Boil  until  it  thickens. 

Uncooked  Mayonnaise 

IV2  to  2  cups  olive  or  salad  2Yi  teaspoons  dry  mustard 

oil  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  thoroughly,  add  salt,  sugar  and  mustard. 
Add  the  lemon  juice  and  then  very  gradually  beat  in  the  oil. 
Keep  very  cold. 

Boiled  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

2  egg  yolks  Yl  cup  milk 

Juice  of  one  lemon  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Yl  cup  cream  2  tablespoons  dry  mustard 

1  tablespoon  flour  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  cream  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  flour,  sugar,  mus- 
tard and  salt.   Stir  smooth  and  pour  in  the  milk. 
Beat  egg  yolks  and  add  lemon  juice;  turn  into  the  mixture, 
cook  for  three  minutes.    Whipped  cream  may  be  added  be 
fore  serving. 

Cooked  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

4  tablespoons  butter  ,        1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  mustard 

2  eggs  Y^  cup  vinegar 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  201 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  the  flour,  stirring 
until  smooth.  Pour  on  the  milk  and  cook  until  rather  thick. 
Beat  the  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  add  the  dry  ingredients  that 
remain.  Poxjr  on  the  hot  mixture  slowly,  beating  constantly. 
Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Add  vine' 
gar  when  mass  has  thickened  and  stir  in  well. 
Cool  and  then  keep  in  ice'box.  Thin  with  cream  when 
needed. 


French  Dressing 

Salad  oil  Pepper 

Lemon  juice  (or  vinegar)  Dry  mustard 

Salt  Worcestershire  sauce 

Put  a  lump  of  ice  in  the  mixing  bowl.    Pour  the  oil  slowly 

over  the  ice.    Use  one-half  to  three-quarters  cup  of  oil  for 

salad  to  serve  six  or  eight  people.    Add  two  tablespoons 

lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper,  paprika  and  dry  mustard  stirring 

all  the  while.   Add  Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste. 

Beat  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  with  a  fork  and  pour  over 

the  chilled  salad. 

Add  one-quarter  pound  Roquefort  cheese  grated  and  stirred 

in  well  for  Roquefort  dressing. 

One    tablespoon    English    Chutney    sauce    mixed    with    the 

French  dressing  makes  a  palatable  addition. 


Italian  Dressing 

Yz  cup  olive  oil  Pepper  and  salt 

1  clove  garlic  6  drops  tabasco  sauce 

1  tablespoon  catsup  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

1  tablespoon  tarragon  vin' 

egar 
Rub  the  bowl  with  garlic  and  place  a  cube  of  ice  in  it.   Mix 
all  the  ingredients  except  the  oil.  When  well  blended,  slowly 
stir  in  the  oil.   Remove  the  ice  and  if  possible  put  the  salad 
into  the  bowl  and  serve  the  salad  from  this  bowl. 


202  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Yi  teaspoon   powdered 

2  tablespoons  orange  or  sugar 
grapefruit  juice                           Y^  cup  olive  oil 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  chill  and  stir  well  just 
before  serving. 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 

lj/2  cups  mayonnaise  1  tablespoon  chopped  red 

1  teaspoon   chili  sauce  pepper 

1  teaspoon  tomatccatsup  1  tablespoon  green  pepper 

chopped 

Stir  the  catsup  and  peppers  into  the  mayonnaise.    Serve  ice 
cold  on  head  lettuce. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing 

Yl  cup  sour  cream  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Yl  cup  sweet  milk  1/3  cup  vinegar 

lYi  teaspoons  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  egg  and  add  the  milk.    Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients 

and  beat  into  the  egg  and  milk  mixture.    Cook  in  a  double 

boiler  but  do  not  let  the  water  in  the  boiler  boil.    Keep  on  a 

very  low  flame. 

Heat  the  vinegar  and  add,  then  the  butter;  stir  smooth.   Cool 

and  add  the  sour  cream.   Chill  and  pour  over  salad. 

Russian  Dressing 

12  tablespoons   mayonnaise  6  tablespoons  chiU  sauce 

3  tablespoons  whipped  Yl  tablespoon   chopped 
cream  capers 

1  tablespoon  taragon  viu'  1  tablespoon  prepared  mus' 

egar  tard 

Stir  all  the  ingredients  into  the  mayonnaise. 
Chill  and  ser\'e  over  lettuce,  cold  asparagus  and  similar  fresh 
salads. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  203 

Hot  Dressing  for  Cole-Slaw 

1  egg  Yi  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard  Y^  cup  vinegar 

Beat  the  egg  and  add  the  remaining  ingredients.    Heat  in  a 

saucepan  until  the  mixture  thickens.   Stir  well  and  while  still 

hot  pour  over  the  cok'slaw. 

Cool  and  later  chill  on  the  ice. 

Imperial  Dressing 

1  cup  sugar  Yl  cup  vinegar 
6  tablespoons  catsup  Pinch  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  Worcester- 
shire  sauce 

Let  boil  slowly  until  it  is  "sirrupy." 
Keeps  very  well. 

Thousand  Island  Dressing 

2  cups  oil  3  hard  boiled  eggs 

3  egg  yolks  2  pimentos 

Yl  cup  vinegar  Yl  green  pepper 

Yl  bottle  chile  sauce  Ya  teaspoon  paprika 

1  bunch  chives  or  onions  Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  oil,  yolks  of  eggs  and  vinegar;  add  slowly  chile  sauce 
until  well  mixed;  then  chop  together  (very  fine)  chives  or 
onions,  hard  boiled  eggs,  pimentos  and  green  pepper,  salt  and 
paprika  and  add. 

Can  use  onions  in  place  of  chives — more  pimentos  and  green 
pepper;  also  few  olives  and  little  Worcestershire  sauce.  Can 
omit  boiled  eggs.  This  will  make  about  one  quart  of  dressing. 

Dressing 

2  egg  yolks  Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  sugar  14  teaspoon  mustard 

Ya  cup  cream 

Cook  over  gas  flame  until  thick,  then  cool.    Whip  bottle  of 

whipping  cream  until  stiff;  then  add  the  above  dressing.    Be 

ure  to  drain  off  all  juice  of  fruit,  then  add  to  the  whipped 
cream  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place. 


Soup 

The  juices  of  meat  are  drawn  out  by  soaking  the  meat  in  cold 
water  for  a  length  of  time.  These  juices  are  cooked  in  the 
water  with  vegetables  to  form  soup  stock.  Celery  leaves,  onion 
leaves,  meat  trimmings,  marrow  bones  and  pan  gravies  may  be 
saved  from  the  regular  meals  and  made  into  soup  stock. 
Cook  all  the  ingredients  together  in  a  large  kettle  and  keep  for 
future  use.  In  summer,  the  stock  should  be  boiled  daily  to 
prevent  its  souring.  >■ 


Soup  Stock 

2  pounds  beef  brisket  1  small  onion 

2  quarts  cold  water  1  carrot 

2  teaspoons  salt  |/2  cup  celery,  diced 

A  few  dried  onion  peels  Sprig  parsley 
Yz  cup  tomato,  raw,  stewed 
or  canned 

Wash,  wipe  and  then  salt  the  meat.  Let  stand  one  hour  in  the 
soup  kettle  without  water.  Pour  on  the  cold  water  and  let 
stand  another  hour.  Cook  over  a  low  flame  for  three  or  more 
hours. 

Add  vegetables  and  more  water  if  much  is  cooked  off.  Cook 
for  one  more  hour.  Strain  the  soup,  cool  and  allow  fat  to 
rise  to  the  top.  Skim  off  this  fat,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  chopped  parsley  just  before  reheating  to  serve. 

204 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  205 

Bouillon 

Three  pound  beef  bone  1  carrot 

Two  pound  veal  bone  Yi  dup  diced  celery 

Chicken  bones  A  few  dried  onion  peels 

4  pounds  lean  beef  meat  1  sliced  potato 

4  quarts  cold  water  |/^  cup  com 

1  onion  sliced  Bay  leaf 

Let  meat  and  bones  stand  for  one  hour  in  the  cold  water  to 

draw  the  juices. 

Boil  slowly  in  the  soup  kettle  for  four  or  more  hours.    Add 

the  vegetables  and  boil  for  one  additional  hour. 

Strain  and  season.  Allow  to  cool  and  remove  cake  of  fat  from 

top.  Reheat  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

Chicken  Soup 

4  pound  chicken  Yl  cup  diced  celery  root 

Extra  chicken  feet  Tablespoon  salt 

4  quarts  cold  water  Pepper 

1  onion 

Scald  and  skin  the  chicken  legs  and  the  wing  tips  of  the 

chicken.    Singe  and  imjoint  the  chicken,  rub  with  salt  and 

soak  several  hours  in  water. 

Drain  this  water,  put  on  the  range  in  cold  fresh  water  and 

bring  to  a  boil.    Skim  the  top  at  this  time  for  a  clear  soup. 

Boil  slowly  for  three  hours  and  add  the  vegetables  and  boil  for 

one  hour  longer. 

Take  the  chicken  out  when  it  has  cooked  thoroughly,  so  that 

the  flesh  falls  away  from  the  bones.   Use  with  a  cream  sauce 

for  chicken  with  rice,  with  dumplings  or  cold  for  chicken 

salad. 

Serve  the  soup  hot  with  a  sHce  of  lemon  in  each  soup  plate. 

Cold  Chicken  Bouillon 

Soak  a  tablespoon  of  crystallized  gelatine  in  cold  water.   Add 

one-quarter  cup  boiling  water  to  dissolve  the  gelatine.    Add 

two  cups  of  hot  chicken  soup  and  beat  in  well. 

Cool  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups  with  one  slice  lemon  and  a 

sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley  on  top  of  each  cup. 

For  cold  beef  bouillon,  use  two  cups  hot  beef  soup  in  place 

of  chicken  soup. 


206  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Beef  Consomme 

2  pounds  lean  beef  1  carrot 

2  pounds  marrow  bone  Yi  cup  diced  celery 

2  pounds  chicken  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  pounds  veal  bone  Pepper 

6  quarts  cold  water  i4  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1  onion 

Chop  beef  into  pieces  and  with  marrow  from  bones,  brown 

in  a  hot  spider.   Place  in  soup  kettle. 

Clean  chicken  and  cut  in  pieces  and  place  in  kettle. 

Add  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.    Skim  the  liquid  if  a 

clear  soup  is  desired. 

Turn  down  flame  and  allow  to  cook  slowly  for  five  hours. 

Stew  the  vegetables  in  a  little  fat  and  when  half  tender,  add  to 

the  Uquid  and  boil  for  one  additional  hour. 

Strain  the  soup  and  season.    Allow  to  cool  and  remove  the 

cake  of  fat  that  forms  on'  the  top. 

Remove  the  chicken  from  the  soup  as  soon  as  it  has  boiled 

tender.  Use  this  chicken  for  salad. 

Russian  Borsht 

6  beets  2  green  apples 

6  cups  cold  water  2  pounds  flank  steak 

3  big  onions  Citric  salt  (size  of  a  pea) 
Grind  the  raw,  scraped  beets  in  a  meat  grinder.    Cook  with 
the  flank  steak,  onions  and  a  Httle  salt  until  meat  and  beets 
are  tender. 

Cook  the  apples  and  add  when  beets  are  nearly  tender. 

Add  the  citric  acid  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  boil 

down  and  serve  as  Cold  Borsht. 

Chicken  Gumbo 

Use  chicken  soup.  Add  chopped  chicken  from  the  soup  to  the 
clear  liquid.  Boil  with  one-half  cup  rice,  cut  okra,  chopped 
onion  and  three  stalks  of  cut  celer>'. 

Boil  slowly  for  one  hour,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery 
salt  and  serve. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  207 

Barley  Soup 

Yz  cup  barley  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  water  Yi  cup  diced  carrots 

2  quarts  strong  soup  stock  Yz  cup  chopped  celery- 
Pepper 

Salt  the  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point.   Drop  in  the  barley 
and  allow  to  boil  with  the  carrots  and  celery  for  about  two 
hours  or  until  the  water  has  evaporated. 
Add  the  soup  stock  to  the  barley  and  vegetables  and  bring  to 
a  boil.   Serve  hot  with  crackers  or  croutons. 

Mulligatawny  Soup 

3  pounds  chicken  4  tablespoons  diced  carrot 

4  quarts  water  4  tablespoons  chopped  onion 
Y4  cup  butter  Yl  teaspoon  celery  salt 

2  teaspoons  flour  Yl  teaspoon  table  salt 

4  tablespoons  diced  celery  Pepper 

4  tablespoons  chopped  Mace 

green  pepper  ' 

Brown  the  chicken  and  the  vegetables  except  the  seasoning,  in 
butter.  Add  the  flour  and  a  Httle  curry  powder  if  available. 
Add  the  water  (cold)  and  allow  to  simmer  until  the  chicken 
is  soft  and  falls  away  from  the  bones. 

Strain  the  liquid  and  press  the  softened  vegetables  through  a 
sieve.  Cut  the  chicken  meat  into  small  pieces.  Add  the 
chopped  chicken  to  the  soup  when  it  is  strained  and  serve  hot. 

Vegetable  Soup  (Without  Soupmeat) 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  tomatoes 

2  quarts  water  Y^  cup  corn  (from  the  cob 

Yl  cup  diced  carrots  or  drained  canned  com) 

Yl  cup  sliced  onion  Yl  cup  diced  celery  or 

Yl  cup  peas  celery  root 

Yz  cup  green  beans  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  sliced  cabbage  1  teaspoon  sugar 

(white)  Pepper 

1  cup  diced  potato 

Use  any  vegetables  diat  arc  available,  preferably  fresh  vege' 
tables.    Proportion  should  be  half  vegetables  and  half  water. 


208  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Wash  vegetables,  scrape  carrots  and  potatoes  and  cut  all  fine. 
Melt  butter  in  a  spider  and  add  all  the  vegetables  except  the 
corn,  potatoes  and  tomatoes.  Stir  continually  and  stew  for 
about  fifteen  minutes. 

Add  the  water,  boiling  hot,  then  the  potatoes,  tomatoes  and 
com.  Boil  one  hour  or  over  or.  until  all  the  vegetables  are  ten- 
der. Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt  to  taste.  Serve 
hot. 


Potato  Soup 

3  potatoes  Parsley 

1  quart  water  1  tablespoon  flour 
Yz  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  butter 
Pepper  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 
Chopped  celery 

Simmer  the  onion  and  celery  in  the  butter  and  add  the  flour. 
Add  the  potato  and  let  simmer  with  one  cup  of  water  for  one 
hour.   Add  more  water  and  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft. 
Serve  hot  with  a  dot  of  butter  in  each  plate  and  season  well. 

Lentil  Soup 

2  cups  of  lentils  Onion 

1  ham  bone  or  1  stalk  celery 

1  pound  smoked  sausage  Pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour  Very  little  salt 

Wash  lentils  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water.    Drain  and 

boil  with  the  ham  bone  or  the  sausage  in  three  quarts  of  water. 

Boil  for  four  to  four  and  a  half  hours.    Add  the  celery  and 

cook  until  all  is  tender. 

Brown  the  onion  in  the  flour  with  a  little  butter. 

Add  this  to  the  soup  and  keep  hot.    Remove  the  ham  bone 

or  the  sausage  and  skim  the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  soup. 

Serve  very  thick,  with  a  piece  of  sausage  sliced  in  each  plate 

and  a  piece  of  rye  bread  toasted  crisp. 

Use  salt  sparingly  since  both  ham  and  sausage  contain  a  good 

deal  of  salt. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  209 

Yellow  Pea  Soup 

Beef  soup  bone  Soup  greens 

1  cup  yellow  dried  peas  Salt 

Enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  until  tender.    Serve  with 

toasted  bread  cubes. 

Tomato  Soup 

Boil  one  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  pint  of  water  with  one  stalk 

celery,  chopped,  one  slice  of  onion  and  one  tablespoon  sugar. 

Boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Brown  two  tablespoons  flour  in  an  equal  amount  of  butter 

and  add  to  the  strained  tomato  liquid.    Serve  hot  as  a  clear 

bouillon. 

One  tablespoon  hot  dissolved  gelatine  may  be  added,  the  liquid 

chilled  and  served  jellied. 

String  Bean  Soup 

Wash  and  cut  in  small  pieces  one  quart  green  or  wax  beans 
with  enough  water  for  soup.  Boil  till  nearly  done,  then  add 
three  or  four  raw  potatoes  diced.  When  tender  add  a  cup  of 
thick  sour  cream  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Boil  up  once  and  serve  hot. 

Vegetable  Soup 

8  medium  size  carrots  1  pound  peas 

3  medium  size  potatoes  1  quart  milk 

Cut  carrots  and  potatoes  in  small  pieces.  Cover  vegetables 
with  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Add  milk  and  season  to 
taste. 

Onion  Soup  With  Cheese 

4  medium  sized  onions  1  cup  water 

3  tablespoons  slightly  2  cups  milk,  scalded 

browned  flour  V/i  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter 

SHce  onions,  add  water  and  cook  slowly  till  tender.  Rub 
through  sieve,  saving  the  water.  If  the  water  cooks  away,  add 
enough  to  make  a  cupful.  Melt  butter,  add  browned  flour  and 


210  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

stir  in  hot  milk  gradually.  Cook  until  mixtxire  thickens  slightly. 
Add  onion  pulp  and  one  cup  of  the  water.  Season  with  salt. 
Serve  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 


Lentil  or  Split  Pea  Soup 

2  cups  lentils  or  split  peas. 
Soak  in  cold  water  overnight. 
Yl  cup  celery. 

Wash  and  put  in  kettle  with  one  and  one^quarter  pounds 
smoked  pork  butts  and  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil  and  let  simmer 
for  three  and  onchalf  to  four  hours.  Fry  one  smaW  onion 
cut  fine  in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter.  Add  one 
tablespoon  flour  and  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Add  this  gradually 
to  boiling  soup. 


Vegetable  Soup 

2  pounds  soup  bone  with  2  onions 

marrow  3  tomatoes 

2  stalks  celery  ]/2  bunch  parsley 

4  carrots  Parsnips  when  in  season 
2  turnips 

One  tablespoon  of  flour  beaten  up  in  pint  of  water  and  poured 
into  the  soup  after  it  has  commenced  to  boil.  Pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Cook  three  hours. 


Navy  Bean  Soup 

1  small  ham  hock  2  small  potatoes 

j/2  pound  navy  beans  1  small  piece  garlic 

Soak  beans  over  night.  Pour  off  water  and  use  enough  fresh 
water  to  cover.  Take  ham  hock  and  let  boil  with  beans  till 
beans  are  nearly  done,  then  cut  up  potatoes  into  small  cubes 
and  add  garlic.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  done. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  2 1 1 

Cream  or  Potato  Soup 

2  cups  potatoes  cut  fine  2  cups  milk 

1  small  onion  cut  fine  Lump  butter 

Yl  cup  celery  cut  fine  Chopped  parsley 

2  cups  water  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  potatoes,  onion  and  celery  in  water  until  soft.  Add  boil- 
ing milk  and  butter.  Sprinkle  with  parsley  and  serve.  Left  over 
mashed  potatoes  may  be  used  and  added  when  onion  and 
celery  are  done. 

Celery  Soup 

2  cups  celery  1  teaspoon  salt 

2/3  cup  potatoes  2  teaspoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  onion 
4  cups  milk 

Cut  celery,  potatoes  and  onion  into  small  pieces,  cook  until 
tender.  Use  water  the  vegetables  were  cooked  in.  Make  a 
cream  sauce  of  milk,  flour  and  butter  and  add  to  soup.  Add 
one'half  cup  of  cream. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

1  quart  tomatoes  1  quart  milk 

J4  teaspoon  soda  1  tablespoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  butter  Yi  teaspoon  pepper 
4  tablespoons  flour 

Stew  tomatoes  slowly  onC'half  hour.  Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour 
and  cook  over  slow  fire  adding  milk  slowly.  Add  seasoning. 
Strain  tomatoes,  add  soda,  stir  into  sauce. 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup 

3  good  sized  potatoes  1  tablespoon  chopped 
1  quart  of  milk  parsley 

1  small  chopped  onion  1  tablespoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  Celery  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Pepper 


212  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Prepare  the  soup  in  a  double  boiler. 

Use  boiled  potatoes  or  cook  the  potatoes  until  soft.   Scald  the 

milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  the  potatoes;  press  through  a 

sieve  and  replace  in  double  boiler. 

Brown  the  flour  and  onion  in  the  melted  butter.   Add  a  little 

of  the  hot  liquid  to  make  a  thin  paste.    Pour  back  into  the 

double  boiler  and  cook  for  about  ten  minutes.    Serve  fairly 

thick  and  very  hot.   Sprinkle  with  parsley, 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Yl  can  of  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  flour 

J/4  teaspoon  baking  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Brown  the  flour  and  onion  in  the  butter;  add  the  scalded  milk 
and  seasoning. 

Strain  the  tomatoes  and  place  over  flame.   Add  the  soda  and 
when  gas  bubbles  have  all  burst,  combine  the  two  liquids. 
Stir  well  and  serve  very  hot.    One  tablespoon  of  whipped 
cream  topped  with  a  httle  paprika  may  be  dropped  on  each 
bowl  of  soup  just  before  serving. 


Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

1  can  of  com  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  milk  1  slice  of  onion 

2  cups  water  Salt  and  pepper 
2  tablespoons  butter 

Press  the  corn  through  a  strainer  and  boil  with  the  water  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Scald  the  milk,  adding  the  slice  of  onion; 
when  hot,  remove  the  onion. 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter  and  then  add  the  scalded  milk. 
Cook  until  thickened  and  add  to  the  com,  heat  all  thoroughly 
and  stir  together.  Further  season  if  necessary. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  213 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 

2  quarts  spinach  1  pint  white  sauce 

1  quart  chicken  soup 

Pick  over  the  spinach  carefully  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Cook 
very  slowly  in  a  thick  aluminum  kettle  without  water.  When 
some  water  has  drawn,  allow  the  spinach  to  boil  for  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  until  tender. 

Allow  the  moisture  to  boil  off,  but  do  not  drain,  since  the 
small  amount  of  remaining  water  contains  some  of  the  best 
properties  of  the  spinach.  Grind  the  spinach  through  a  meat 
grinder  or  press  through  a  strainer.  Add  the  soup,  when  hot, 
add  the  white  sauce  and  stir  well  to  mix.  Season  and  serve 
hot  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Break  three  stalks  of  celery  into  pieces  and  mash.   Scald  three 

cups  of  milk  with  a  sHce  of  onion;  remove  the  onion.    Cook 

the  celery  with  the  milk  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Brown  two  tablespoons  of  flour  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter. 

Gradually  add  the  celery  liquid  to  the  browned  flour  and  stir 

in  one  cup  of  cream  to  make  a  smooth  thick  soup. 

Season  well  and  serve  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Cream  of  Mushroom  Soup 

Yz  pound  mushrooms  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  quart  chicken  soup  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

Simmer  the  mushrooms,  chopped  or  sHced,  in  one  tablespoon 

of  butter  for  ten  minutes. 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  other  tablespoon  of  butter  and  stir  in 

a  little  hot  soup.    Then  add  the  mushrooms  and  the  rest  of 

the  soup. 

Heat  and  add  the  cream  and  season  qxiite  highly  to  bring  out 

flavor  of  mushrooms. 

Fresh  mushrooms  make- a  more  tasty  soup  than  canned  mush' 

rooms,  but  canned  mushrooms  may  be  used. 


214  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Oyster  Stew 

1  pint  oysters  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  Pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Scald  the  milk.  Heat  the  oysters  in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter 
until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  curl.  Do  not  cook  oysters  hard 
or  they  will  be  tough.  Pour  on  the  hot  milk^  stir,  heat  through 
thoroughly  and  serve.  Season  well  and  drop  a  dot  of  butter 
in  the  plate  just  before  serving. 

Bisque  of  Lobster 

2  pounds  of  lobster  2  tablespoons  butter 
2  cups  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  milk 

Crack  bones  of  lobster  and  remove  the  meat.  Cook  the  small 
claws  and  lobster  bones  for  twenty  minutes  in  two  cups  of 
cold  water.  Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter.  Drain  the  bones 
and  cook  with  the  browned  flour. 

Cut  the  tail  meat  of  the  lobster  in  small  pieces  and  add  the 
scalded  milk.  Combine  the  two  liquids;  add  the  body  and 
claw  meat  cut  fine.  Season  and  serve  sprinkled  with  paprika. 

Clam  Chowder 

1  quart  of  clams  1  tablespoon  butter 

4  cups  milk  1  sliced  onion 

6  crackers  Pepper  and  salt 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  cubes 

Drain  the  clams  and  remove  any  pieces  of  shell.    If  canned 

clams  are  used  retain  the  liquor  and  use  in  place  of  water.  Cut 

the  clams  into  good  sized  pieces. 

Do  not  cook  clams  over  two  or  three  minutes,  as  this  makes 

them  tough  and  indigestable. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  215 

Fry  the  onion  brown,  add  water  or  clam  liquor  enough  to  cover 
the  potatoes.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender,  turn  into  a 
kettle,  add  the  milk,  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  celery  salt. 
Cook  until  potatoes  are  thoroughly  done  and  add  clams  and 
the  soda  crackers  just  before  serving. 
Season  very  well  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Corn  Chowder 

1  can  corn  2  cups  water 

2  onions  2  cups  milk 

4  potatoes,  cut  in  cubes  2  tablespoons  butter 

Brown  the  flour  and  the  onion  in  the  butter  in  a  spider.   Add 

the  water  and  potatoes  and  cook  until  the  potatoes  become 

tender. 

Add  the  corn  and  the  milk,  scalded,  and  cook  for  five  minutes. 

Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Croutons 

Cut  stale  bread  into  small  cubes  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Croutons  may  be  browned  and  buttered  by  cooking  in  a  spider 
or  may  be  fried  in  deep  fat. 

Soup  Crisps 

Cut  stale  bread  into  long  strips,  spread  with  butter  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

Toast  for  Soup 

Cut  white  or  rye  bread  very  thin  and  dry  brown  in  the  oven. 

Egg  Drops 

Beat  one  egg,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  two  tablespoons  water. 
Stir  into  a  smooth  paste  with  three  tablespoons  flour. 
Pour  in  drops  off  the  end  of  a  spoon  and  cook  for  three  or 
four  minutes  just  before  serving  the  soup. 


216  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Cracker  Balls 

Yz  cup  cracker  crumbs  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  egg  J4  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  soup 

Stir  the  egg  and  butter  together.   Stir  in  the  soup  and  season. 
Mold  into  little  balls  and  let  stand  on  a  plate  to  expand.   Drop 
into  the  boiling  soup  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 
Nuts  may  be  added  to  the  paste  before  molding. 

Baking  Powder  Dumplings 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1/3  cup  milk 

1  cup  flour  y^  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Stir  into  the  milk  and 
smooth  into  a  batter.  Spoon  into  the  boiling  soup  and  let  boil 
covered  for  five  minutes  before  serving  the  soup. 

Tomato  Soup  With  Dumplings 

2  cups  flour  1  dessert  spoon  lard 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder           Pinch  salt 

Mix  above,  then  add  one  cup  milk  and  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Drop  into  one  quart  boiling  tomatoes  to  which  has  been  added 
one  tablespoon  butter.  If  onion  flavor  is  desired,  one  chopped 
onion  may  be  cooked  with  tomatoes  before  dropping  dump' 
lings.  Cook  above  twenty  minutes.  Pour  on  platter  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Marrow  Balls 

Cream  two  tablespoons  marrow  fat  extracted  from  marrow 
bones.  Cream  the  marrow  and  mix  with  two  beaten  eggs, 
add  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  enough  cracker  meal  or  matzos 
meal  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  the  dough  stand  for  several 
hours. 

Test  the  dough  by  making  a  small  ball  and  dropping  it  into 
boiling  water.  If  the  ball  crumbles  and  falls  apart,  more  meal 
should  be  stirred  into  the  dough.  Make  into  small  balls  and 
boil  in  the  soup  for  fifteen  minutes  before  serving.  Serve  three 
or  four  balls  to  each  plate  of  soup. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  217 

Noodles 

Beat  up  one  egg  slightly,  add  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt  and 

stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.   Knead  thoroughly 

and  set  aside  to  stand  half  an  hour. 

Roll  the  dough  out  very  thin  and  spread  on  a  cloth  to  dry 

for  an  hour  or  more,  depending  on  the  weather. 

Cut  into  long  strips  about  four  inches  wide,  stack  one  on  top 

of  the  other  and  cut  crosswise  as  fine  as  possible  with  a  very 

sharp  knife.    Separate  the  strands  and  dry  on  a  cloth.   When 

completely  dry,  put  into  tight  jars  or  a  covered  casserole  and 

keep  for  subsequent  use. 

In  using  noodles,  drop  them  into  the  soup  about  five  minutes 

before  serving. 

The  dough  may  be  made  into  a  long  loaf,  allowed  to  harden 

and  then  grated  into  small  crumbs.    Drop  these  into  soup 

about  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

Perfect  Dumplings 

l]/4  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  sugar 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  well  beaten  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  milk 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients.    Add  milk  to  well  beaten  egg, 

and  add  to  dry  ingredients,  blending  or  folding  the  mixture 

but  not  stirring  or  mixing.   When  combined  thoroughly,  drop 

by  spoonsful  in  boiHng  stew  and  steam  fifteen  minutes,  keeping 

the    stew    boiling    continuously.     Makes    about    one    dozen 

dumplings. 

Farina  Balls 

Yl  cup  farina  1  eggs 

1  cup  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Heat  the  milk  and  butter  in  a  bouble  boiler,  add  the  farina 

and  stir  as  for  breakfast  farina.    Cool  and  stir  in  the  beaten 

eggs.    Season  and  then  roll  into  small  balls.    Drop  into  the 

boiling    soup,    let    boil    for    about   ten    minutes    and    serve. 

Chopped  nuts  and  chopped  parsley  may  be  mixed  before  form' 

ing  into  balls. 


iVegeUR 


e^s 


Time  Table  for  Boiling  or  Steaming  Vegetables 


Artichokes 

Asparagus 

Beans,  young  string 

Beans,  old  string 

Beets,  young 

Beets,  old  or  large 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Cabbage 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Sweet  Corn 

Onions 

Parsnips 

Peas,  fresh  green 

Potatoes,  sweet  or  yams 

Potatoes,  Irish 

Spinach 

Squash  (summer) 

Squash   (winter) 

Tomatoes 


30  to  45  minutes 
15  to  30  minutes 
30  to  45  minutes 
60  minutes 
45  to  60  minutes 
2  to  3  hours 
15  to  30  minutes 
15  to  20  minutes 
25  to  45  minutes 
25  minutes 
20  to  30  minutes 
10  to  15  minutes 
30  to  45  minutes 
15  to  30  minutes 
15  to  20  minutes 
30  to  35  minutes 
35  to  45  minutes 
30  minutes 
30  to  40  minutes 
60  minutes 
15  to  20  minutes 


Drain  vegetables  after  cooking,  season,  add  butter  and  serve 
at  once. 

To  skin  beets:    cover  with  cqld  water  after  cooking  and  slip 
off  the  skins.   Reheat  or  chill  as  desired. 

218 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  219 

Vegetables  are  valued  for  their  salts,  vitamines,  water  and  for 
the  ruffage  which  they  supply  to  the  body.  Fresh  vegetables 
are  always  to  be  preferred  to  canned  vegetables  and  should  be 
used  whenever  available  at  a  reasonable  price. 

Wash  vegetables  very  carefully  to  remove  any  soil,  scrape 
whenever  possible.  Much  of  the  health  giving  property  of  the 
vegetable  is  wasted  if  the  outer  layer  is  removed  by  deep 
paring. 

In  boiling  or  steaming  vegetables,  conserve  all  the  cooking 
water.  Boil  only  in  enough  water  to  cover  and  use  the  vege- 
table water  for  soup,  gravy  or  sauce  to  cover  vegetables. 
Use  plenty  of  salt  in  cooking  vegetables,  one  teaspoon  to  one 
quart  of  water,  for  this  brings  out  the  water  in  the  vegetables 
and  adds  to  the  palatability  of  the  food. 

If  the  saucepan  is  left  uncovered  during  the  boiling,  the 
vegetables  will  retain  their  color.  A  pinch  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda  in  the  water  when  cooking  green  vegetables  tends  to  pre 
serve  the  fresh  coloring. 


Artichokes 

Boil  the  artichokes  until  the  leaves  pull  out  easily.  Boil  in 
salted  water  and  when  cooked,  stand  on  the  tips  to  drain 
out  excess  water. 

Cut  the  bottoms  so  the  artichokes  stand  firmly  and  serve  hot 
with  melted  butter  or  HoUandaise  sauce. 

May  be  served  cold  with  vinaigrette  sauce.  The  "choke" 
should  be  removed  and  some  of  the  dressing  poured  in  in 
place  of  the  smallest  leaves  and  the  fuszy  parts. 


Asparagus 

Cut  the  tough  part  off  the  bottom  of  the  asparagus.    Wash 
and  remove  side  scales.    Reform  in  a  bunch  and  tie  together. 


220  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Stand  on  end  in  boiling  salted  water  so  that  tips  remain  out 
of  the  water  for  the  first  ten  minutes.  Cook  the  bunch  lying 
on  its  side  for  five  more  minutes  or  until  tender  and  drain. 
Cut  the  string,  serve  on  toast  covered  with  browned  butter, 
white  sauce,  cream  sauce  or  bread  crumbs  browned  in  butter. 


Canned  Asparagus 

Open  the  can  from  the  bottom  and  slide  out  the  stalks  so  as 
not  to  injure  the  delicate  tips.  Drain  and  nin  cold  water  over 
the  asparagus.  Replace  them  in  the  can,  pour  on  boiling 
water  to  cover  and  heat  in  a  pan  of  water  on  the  stove  or  heat 
in  the  can  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  browned  butter,  Holland- 
aise  sauce  or  white  sauce. 


String  Beans 

Remove  the  strings  from  the  beans  and  wash  in  cold  water. 
Cut  on  the  slant  into  pieces  an  inch  long. 
Cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.    Add  salt  a  short  time 
before  the  beans  are  tender.    Drain  and  serve  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  or  with  a  brown  sauce. 


String  Beans  With  Tomato 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  and  add  two  tablespoons  flour 
and  a  cup  of  strained  tomato  juice.  Make  a  smooth  sauce  of 
this  and  pour  over  the  cooked  string  beans.  Simmer  for 
fifteen  minutes  and  serve  hot. 


Boiled  Beets 

Wash  Ijut  do  not  cut  the  beets.    Cook  in  boiling  water  until 
perfectly  tender.   Beets  take  a  very  long  time  to  cook. 
When  thoroughly  cooked,  drain  and  pour  on  cold  water.   This 
will  loosen  the  skins  so  they  may  be  rubbed  off.    Serve  young 
beets  with  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  221 

Pickled  Beets 

Boil  old  beets  or  very  large  beets  until  tender,  slice  and  place 
in  a  crock  covered  with  two  cups  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  a  little  caraway  seed,  raw  sliced  onion  and  clove.  Serve 
as  a  relish  or  a  salad. 


Fried  Beets 

Wash  five  large  beets  and  boil  them  until  soft.  Then  peel 
them  and  chop  them  up  fine.  Cut  up  three  slices  bacon  in 
small  pieces,  and  fry  until  crisp.  Add  the  chopped  beets  and 
fry.  Put  the  beets  to  one  side  and  add  two  tablespoons  vinegar 
and  bring  to  a  boil,  then  add  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  mix. 
Sprinkle  one  tablespoon  (level)  flour  over  the  beets  and  season 
to  taste. 
Makes  a  very  delicious  dish  to  serve  with  a  beef  roast. 


Brussel  Sprouts 

Remove  the  wilted  leaves  from  the  outside  of  the  sprouts. 
Soak  in  cold  water  and  then  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  for 
about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  serve  with  melted  butter, 
salt  and  pepper;  with  brown  sauce;  or  with  white  sauce. 
Add  a  pinch  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  to  the  water  in  which 
the  sprouts  are  to  be  cooked.     This  will  keep  them  green. 


Boiled  Cabbage 

Chop  a  quart  of  cabbage  and  add  to  browned  flour  and  onion. 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  and  let  steam  for  ten  minutes 

under  cover. 

Pour  on  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  boil  for  an  hour  or 

more  imtil  tender.    Thicken  with  a  little  flour,  boil  a  few 

minutes  longer  to  cook  the  flour  and  serve  hot,  with  ham  or 

pork. 


222  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Boiled  Whole  Cabbage 

Wash  the  cabbage  in  cold  water  and  remove  wilted  leaves. 

Cut  into  quarters  and  cover  with  boiling  salted  water.    Boil 

until  tender.  Add  a  strip  of  bacon  while  the  cabbage  is  boiling 

for  flavor. 

Drain,   sprinkle  with   salt   and   pepper   and   heat   with    two 

tablespoons  of  butter.    Serve  hot 

Red  cabbage  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  but  the  water 

must  be  changed  four  times  to  destroy  the  strong  taste. 

Cabbage  au  Gratin 

Pour  a  cream  sauce  over  the  boiled  cabbage  and  put  into  a 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  browned. 


Swiss  Chard 

Prepare  just  like  spinach. 

Carrots 

Scrape  the  carrots,  wash  them  and  cut  into  slices  or  dice. 
Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Serve  with  melted 
butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Carrots  and  Peas 

Wash,  scrape  and  dice  the  carrots.  Cook  in  salted  water 
until  tender.  Drain  canned  or  cooked  fresh  peas  and  mix 
with  the  carrots.  Sprinkle  with  about  two  tablespoons  flour, 
add  two  tablespocwis  butter,  season  and  add  one'half  cup  soup 
stock.  Boil  a  little  longer  and  serve. 
Carrots  and  peas  may  also  be  served  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Puree  of  Carrots 

Cook  as  above.  Press  the  carrots  through  a  coarse  mesh  sieve. 
Add  butter  and  seasoning. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  223 

Braised  Celery 

Wash  and  scrape  clean  the  stalks  of  celery;  cook  in  two  cups 
of  hot  soup-stock  until  the  celery  is  tender.  Add  a  little  melted 
butter  and  serve. 

Use  only  the  outside  stalks  reserving  the  tender  stalks  and 
the  hearts  for  table  use  fresh. 


Boiled  Broccoli 

Broccoli  is  an  Italian  green  cauHflower. 

To  prepare:   remove  the  outer  leaves,  boil  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  salted  water  with  a  pinch  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda.    Boil  only  until  tender  and  use  great  care  in  removing 
from  the  hot  water  since  the  vegetable  breaks  apart  easily. 
Drain  and  serve  with  a  Hollandaise  sauce. 


Fried  Eggplant 

1  eggplant  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

3  ripe  tomatoes  Cornflakes 

1  egg 

Serve  six. 

Peel  and  slice  the  eggplant.    Beat  the  egg  and  add  salt.    Dip 

the  eggplant  slices  into  the  egg  and  then  into  cornflakes. 

Fry  in  hot  fat  until  tender  and  cooked  through. 

Cut  tomato  into  thick  slices.   Dip  in  cornflakes. 

Brown  until  tender  in  a  greased  spider. 

Serve  hot,  placing  the  fried  tomato  on  the  fried  eggplant. 

Creamed  Lettuce 

Remove  any  wilted  leaves.   Use  four  heads  of  lettuce.    Open 
the  heads  and  wash  the  leaves.    Boil  the  lettuce  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  in  as  little  water  as  possible. 
Press  through  a  coarse  mesh  sieve  and  mix  with  one  cup  of 
cream.   Serve  hot  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 


224  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Baked  Mushrooms 

12  large  mushrooms  2/3  cup  cream 

Salt  and  pepper  Toast 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  the  mushrooms,  remove  stems,  peel  caps  and  place  in 
buttered  dripping  pan,  cap  side  up.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dot  over  with  butter  and  add  cream.  Bake  ten  minutes 
in  hot  oven.  Arrange  on  dry  toast  and  pour  over  remaining 
cream  and  serve  hot. 


Creamed  Onions 

Cook  two  cups  of  small  white  onions  for  about  one-half  hour 
in  boiling  water.    Drain  and  add  cream  sauce.    Put  into  a 
double  boiler  and  cook  for  five  more  minutes. 
Season  and  serve. 


Baked  Onions 

6  large  Spanish  onions. 

Bake  the  onions  in  their  peels  for  one  hour.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  peel  and  return  to  the  dish.  Pour  over  them  two  cups 
beef 'Stock,  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  for  ten  more  minutes, 
basting  a  few  times  with  the  stocL 


French  Fried  Onions 

Peel  large  white  onions  and  cut  across  the  grain.  Separate 
the  rings  and  put  them  in  a  frying  basket.  Dip  the  basket 
in  hot  deep  fat.  Shake  constantly  and  fry  to  a  Ught  brown. 
Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  with  steak. 


Stuffed  Onions 

Parboil  large  onions  for  ten  minutes.    Remove  part  of  the 
center  leaving  the  root  for  the  onion  to  stand  on.    Fill  the 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  225 

cavity  with  the  chopped  onion  just  taken  out,  chopped  cooked 
meat  and  bread  crumbs  in  equal  amounts. 
Season  and  moisten  with  cream  or  melted  butter.   Arrange  in 
a  greased  baking  dish,  pour  one  cup  soup-stock  over  all  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  to  an  hour. 


Stuflfed  Green  Peppers 

Take  six  green  peppers,  cut  off  top,  remove  all  seeds  and  wash 
well.  Mix  together  onc'half  pound  pork  and  onchalf  pound 
veal  ground  together,  three  heaping  tablespoons  cooked  rice, 
one  onion  cut  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Then  fill  the  peppers 
and  pour  over  them  one  can  tomatoes,  strained.  Add  a  few 
pieces  of  butter  and  simmer  slowly  one  hour. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

6  medium  sized  peppers  1  cup  canned  tomatoes 

(green)  1  small  onion 

2  eggs  12  soda  crackers 
2  slices  smoked  ham 

Parboil  the  ham.  Drain  and  keep  the  liquor.  Cut  off  the  stem 
and  remove  the  seeds  of  the  peppers.  Wash  them  and  cut 
in  half  lengthwise.  Chop  the  ham  and  break  up  the  soda 
crackers  into  very  small  bits.  All  may  be  ground  through  a 
meat  grinder. 

Mix  the  meat  and  crackers  with  the  tomatoes  and  add  the 
beaten  eggs.  Fill  the  empty  peppers  with  this  mixture  and 
arrange  in  a  low  baking  dish.  Surround  by  the  Uquor  in  which 
the  ham  was  parboiled.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
(450  degrees  F.). 

Hubbard  Squash  With  Bacon 

1  squash  1  cup  cream 

6  slices  bacon  |/2  cup  crumbs 

Quarter  the  squash  and  remove  the  seeds.  Cook  until  tender, 

peel  and  cut  up  the  pulp.   Press  it  through  a  potato  ricer  until 


226  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

you  can  fill  three  cups  with  the  pulp.  Add  cream,  salt  and  a 
little  pepper.  Mix  well,  place  in  a  greased  baking  dish  and 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs. 

Parboil  the  bacon  and  lay  over  the  squash.  Bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven,  500  degrees,  for  fifteen  minutes. 


Candied  Parsnips 

Wash  and  scrape  the  parsnips.  Boil  in  salty  water  until  tender. 
Cut  lengthwise  and  place  in  a  baking  dish  or  fireproof  dish. 
Cover  with  brown  sugar  and  dot  with  butter.    Put  in  a  ver>' 
hot  oven  and  brown  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

Baked  Spinach 

2  cups  cooked  spinach  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

2  egg  yolks  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  egg  whites  Paprika 

Cook  the  spinach,  drain  and  chop  fine.   Add  the  grated  cheese 

and  then  the  beaten  yolks.    Season.    When   cool,   add  the 

stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 

Turn  into  a  buttered  ring  mold  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes 

in  a  pan  of  water. 

Baked  Squash 

Spht  the  squash  in  two  crosswise.  Remove  the  seeds  and  place 
in  a  drip  pan  shell  side  up.  Bake  for  two  hours  or  until  soft. 
Remove  the  pulp  from  the  shell,  mash  to  remove  any  lumps 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.   Mix  in  one  teaspoon  butter. 

Summer  Squash 

Cut  summer  squash  into  quarters  and  remove  the  seeds  and 
pulp.   Cook  in  salted  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Drain  and  mash  the  soft  squash  through  a  coarse  siexz.   Add 
butter  and  season. 

Cream  may  be  used  instead  of  butter.  Use  about  two  table- 
spoons of  cream. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  227 

Winter  Squash 

Cut  the  squash  into  quarters  and  remove  seeds  and  pulp.  Boil 
just  as  for  summer  squash.  Prepare  in  same  manner  but  boil 
twice  as  long. 


Boiled  Spinach 

Wash  spinach  carefully  several  times  to  remove  any  grit.  Put 
the  spinach  in  a  kettle  with  as  little  water  as  possible.  Add 
one  teaspoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of  bicarbonate  of  soda.  Boil 
until  the  spinach  is  reduced  to  a  pulp. 

Drain  off  any  water  and  use  in  soup,  gravy,  etc.  Run  cold 
water  over  the  spinach,  and  drain  again.  Press  the  pulp 
through  a  course  sieve.  Mix  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  season 
and  garnish  with  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs. 


Creamed  Spinach 

Add  one-half  cup  of  cream  to  the  boiled  spinach. 


Spinach  Ring 

l/z  peck  spinach.  2  tablespoons  flour 

3  eggs  J/2  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  the  spinach  for  half  an  hour  with  as  little  water  as 

possible.   Drain  and  chop  fine. 

Heat  the  butter  and  brown  the  flour;  then  add  the  milk.    Stir 

in  the  beaten  yolks  and  stir  until  smooth  and  fairly  thick. 

Add  the  spinach  and  seasoning. 

Cool.    Then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  pour  into  a 

greased  ring  mold.    Stand  the  ring  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 

bake  in   a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen   minutes  or   until   the 

mixture  is  set. 


228  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Loosen  edges  and  turn  onto  a  platter.  Fill  center  with  creamed 
mushrooms,  chicken  a  la  king;  or  serve  with  other  cooked 
vegetables  in  the  center  as  a  course. 


Spinach  Souffle 

Boil  spinach,  drain  well  and  press  through  a  coarse  mesh 
sieve  until  about  a  cup  of  spinach  pulp  is  left. 
Heat  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan,  season  and  stir  in 
the  spinach.  Stir  in  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 
Remove  from  the  flame  and  when  cool  beat  in  one-quarter 
cup  whipped  cream.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  and  fold 
in  the  spinach.  Grease  a  souffle  dish,  turn  in  the  spinach  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (325  degrees  F.)  for  one  hour.  Serve 
immediately  so  that  the  puffy  souffle  will  not  fall. 


Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes 

Yz  pound  green  beans  J/2  teaspoon  sugar 

4  smooth  tomatoes  Few  grains  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  sweet  green  pepper 
l/z  teaspoon  salt 

Cut  beans  in  small  pieces  and  cook  in  boiling  water  for  twenty 
minutes.  Let  the  water  cook  away  and  add  pepper  cut  in 
shreds,  butter,  salt,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Cut  a  slice  from  the 
top  of  each  tomato  and  scoop  out  the  seeds.  Fill  with  the  be^.n 
mixture  and  place  on  a  buttered  shallow  pan.  Bake  thirty 
minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 


Skillet  Tomatoes  on  Toast 

Place  one  can  of  solid  pack  tomatoes  (or  fresh  tomatoes 
sliced)  in  skillet  with  small  amount  of  bacon  grease;  chop 
tomatoes  fairly  well,  bring  to  boiling  point;  add  salt  and 
pepper,   sugar  and   sufficient   flour  to   thicken;   simmer  until 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  229 

flour  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Add  about  three  crackers  rolled 
if  there  is  much  juice  on  tomatoes.  Serve  on  dry  white  toast, 
garnish  with  long  strips  of  crisp  bacon,  fried  very  slowly  over 
low  fire. 


Tomatoes  and  Okra  au  Gradn 

1  cup  okra,  cooked  Yi  cup  bread  crumbs 

6  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  cup  chopped  left'over  meat 

Grease  a  baking  dish  and  cover  the  bottom  with  some  of  the 

cooked  okra.    SUce  the  tomatoes  and  place  a  layer  over  the 

okra,  season  and  sprinkle  with  cheese,  bread  crumbs,  and  some 

of  the  onion.    Alternate  layers  until  ail  the  ingredients  are 

used.   Finish  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  cheese.   Bake 

for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Turnips  in  Sugar 

Scrape  and  dice  the  turnips;  boil  in  salted  water  until  they 
are  tender. 

Make  a  thick  sauce  of  two  tablespoons  of  flour  in  two  table' 
spoons  butter;  add  a  cup  of  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
and  season.  When  thick,  add  to  the  turnips  and  simmer  for 
about  ten  minutes. 


Puree  of  Turnips 

Press  the  turnips  through  a  coarse  mesh  sieve.  Add  butter 
and  seasoning.  Reheat  before  serving. 

Com  Oysters 

Take  one-half  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn;  with  a  sharp  knife 
split  each  row  of  com  in  the  center  of  each  kernel  lengthwise. 
Scrape  out  all  the  pulp,  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  a  Httle  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  of  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Drop  into  hot  lard  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 


230  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Beans 

Wash  beans  carefully  and  cut  in  uniform  lengths.  Heat 
a  tablespoon  lard  (this  is  proportion  to  use  for  about  a  half 
gallon  beans  after  they  have  been  cut) .  Slice  an  onion  in  this 
hot  grease  and  allow  to  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  beans 
and  a  cup  of  hot  water.  Allow  to  simmer  for  two  hours  or 
until  tender.  Then  thicken  this  with  a  level  tablespoon  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  water.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.    (If  desired  seasonings  can  be  added  at  first.) 

Hot  Slaw 

Cook  one  head  of  cabbage,  cut  fine,  until  tender  in  salt  water; 
pour  off  water;  let  dry;  add  a  lump  of  butter;  mix  well. 
Make  a  mayonnaise  dressing: 

Two  tablespoons  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon  of  mustard,  one  egg,  one-half  teacup  of  vinegar,  one  cup 
sour  cream.   Mix  all  together  and  add  to  cabbage. 

For  Dried  Fruits 

An  over-night  soaking  is  essential  for  haricots  and  butter- 
beans.  Dried  fruits,  such  as  prunes  and  figs,  also  make  a  far 
more  delicate  dish  if  soaked  for  twelve  hours  in  water  to 
which  the  sugar  has  already  been  added. 
A  baked  apple  which  prior  to  its  cooking  has  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  for  a  couple  of  hours  is  more  succulent  than  the 
ordinary  rather  dried  up  dish.  It  plumps  out  to  a  large  size, 
and  when  the  skin  is  broken,  the  inside  is  found  to  be  full 
instead  of  half  empty. 

Lettuce  and  radishes  should  not  be  served  without  having  been 
soaked  for  at  least  an  hour  in  slightly  salted  water  to  bring 
out  the  crispness.  If  either  be  left  over  for  a  second  meal  the 
soaking  should  be  repeated  for  ten  minutes.  This  will  enhance 
the  crispness  without  producing  a  sodden  effect. 

Chestnut  Balls 

Boil,  hull,  and  blanch  enough  Spanish  or  Italian  chestnuts  to 
measure  a  cupful  when  mashed  smooth,  or  run  through  the 
ricer. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  231 

Put  into  the  double  boiler: 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Yi  cup  ground  bread 

1  tablespoonful  butter  crumbs 

Yz  teaspoonful  grated  onion  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Stir  until  thick;  remove  from  fire  and  add  the  chestnuts.  When 
cold,  form  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut;  dip  in  egg,  then 
in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


Spanish  Fried  Rice 

Yl  cup  boiled  rice  2  medium  sized  onions 

1  tablespoon  butter  Season  with  salt,  red  pepper, 

2  tablespoons  of  ham  fat  or  paprika  and  clove  of  garlic 
bacon  if  desired 

1  large  can  tomatoes 

Put  butter  and  fat  into  a  fry  pan;  when  hot  add  the  dry 
rice.  Fry  until  a  golden  brown,  stirring  often  to  prevent  bum- 
ing.  Heat  tomatoes  and  onions  to  boiling  point,  add  the  fried 
rice  and  seasoning  and  cook  one  hour  or  until  rice  \&  tender. 
If  too  thick  when  cooking,  a  little  water  may  be  added. 


To  Cook  Rice 

Use  enameled  pan;  deep  pan  is  preferable,  and  one  that  you 
can  cover  closely.  Put  the  rice  into  the  pan  and  wash  it  thor' 
oughly,  changing  the  water  until  it  is  perfectly  clear.  Drain 
off  the  water  and  measure  the  rice  in  proportion  of  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  water  to  every  cup  of  rice  used.  Cover  tightly 
and  cook  over  a  high  flame  until  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  then 
continue  cooking  five  minutes  longer.  Reduce  the  flame  gradu' 
ally  every  five  minutes  until  the  rice  has  absorbed  all  the 
water.  Set  the  rice  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  where  it  is  warm, 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.  The  oriental  cook  covers  the  rice 
in  the  pan  with  a  clean  cloth  wet  with  hot  water  when  the 
rice  \&  not  sufficiently  cooked  after  the  water  has  all  been 
absorbed.  If  this  is  done,  great  care  must  be  taken  that  the 
cloth  be  perfectly  clean.  Cover  the  pan  tightly  and  let  stand 
in  a  warm  place  1 5  minutes. 


232  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Red  Cabbage — Slaw 

Cut  a  medium  sized  red  cabbage  fine.  Let  stand  over  night  in 
3  tablespoons  of  salt  and  water  to  moisten.  In  the  morning 
wash  once  in  colander.  Boil  2j/2  cups  water,  2  cups  vinegar, 
Yz  cup  sugar,  with  a  cloth  sack  of  mixed  spices  together.  Pour 
over  the  cabbage.    This  needs  no  cover. 

Corn  Custard 

Put  a  cupful  of  canned  or  fresh  corn  through  the  meat  chop- 
per, add  four  egg  yolks  (beaten),  one  and  onchalf  cupfuls  of 
hot  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion;  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
bit  of  sugar  to  taste;  a  tablespoonful  or  more  of  minced  pi' 
mento;  and  last,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour 
into  a  well  buttered  baking  dish,  place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  slowly  until  set. 

Carrot  Fritters 

To  two  bunches  fresh  carrots  that  have  been  cleaned,  cut  in 
pieces,  boiled  in  salt  water  until  tender  and  mashed,  add  3 
eggs  and  Yi  cup  of  cracker  meal,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper.  Mix  well  and  fry  as  fritters  in  hot  bacon  drippings. 

Savory  Carrots 

Scrape  and  cut  lengthwise  eight  carrots;  pour  enough  hot 
water  over  them  to  cover;  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  three 
tomatoes,  skinned  and  cut  up,  two  medium  onions  cut  fine, 
and  boil  about  one-half  hour,  watching  carefully  to  let  water 
boil  down  till  almost  dry,  then  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

Egg  Plant  Fritters 

1  cup  cooked  egg  plant  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  sweet  milk  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Cook  egg  plant  until  well  done.  Drain  and  wash.  Add  eggs, 
milk,  salt  and  the  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder.  Beat  all 
lightly  and  fry  in  fat  drippings.    Serve  hot. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  233 

Red  Cabbage  Cooked  with  Apples 

Cut  two-pound  head  of  red  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw.  Put  in 
kettle;  cover  with  water;  add  two  medium  sour  apples  which 
have  been  pared  and  sHced;  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard, 
sugar  and  vinegar  to  suit  taste.  Cook  slowly  about  one  hour 
or  a  little  longer.  Cabbage  should  be  a  deep  red  when  cooked. 

Bavarian  Cabbage 

Very  good  to  serve  with  roast  pork  or  pork  chops. 
Shave  a  small  cabbage  as  for  slaw.  Cut  up  1  large  onion  and 
fry  it  in  lj/2  tablespoons  butter;  then  add  cabbage  and  let  it 
steam  in  this  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  water  gradually.  Add 
vinegar  to  taste.  Then  salt,  caraway  seed  and  sugar  to  taste. 
When  done,  thicken  with  flour  which  has  been  browned. 

Eggplant  Pancakes 

1  medium  sized  eggplant  5  tablespoons  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

Bake  eggplant  imtil  tender.  Peel  and  remove  seeds.  Mash 
pulp  to  which  add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  flour  and  salt.  Mix 
all  the  ingredients.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  buttered  pan. 
Turn  and  brown  on  both  sides. 


STARCHY  VEGETABLES  AND 
POTATOES 

Baked  Beans 

1  quart  dried  beans  1/3  pound  salt  pork 

V/z  teaspoon  salt  4  tablespoons  dark  com 

1  medium  sized  onion  sjrrup 

Wash  beans  thoroughly  and  soak  over  night.  In  morning 
use  the  same  water  to  cook  beans.  Boil  one  hour  counting 
from  time  the  water  starts  to  boil,  put  in  bean  pot,  add  onion, 
syrup  and  salt.  Place  one  piece  of  pork  in  center  of  beans 
and  put  remainder,  cut  in  slices,  on  top,  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
(about  250  degrees). 


234  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

1  qxiart  navy  beans  4  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

1  cup  water  Yi  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Yl  pound  salt  pork  J4  teaspoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  molasses 

Select  and  wash  the  beans,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Drain  and  cover  with  fresh  water,  cook  slowly  until  tender. 
When  the  beans  are  easily  pierced  with  a  fork,  they  arc 
tender. 

Drain  again  and  blanch  with  cold  water.  Scald  the  poric, 
scrape  the  rind  until  white,  cut  the  pork  in  half  inch  strips 
and  bury  the  pork  in  the  beans  in  a  pot,  leaving  only  the  rind 
of  pork  exposed. 

Mix  the  sugar,  molasses  and  mustard  in  a  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Pour  over  the  beans  and  add  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Cover  the  pot  and  bake  six  to  seven  hours  in  a  slow 
oven  (350  degrees  F.),  removing  the  Hd  for  the  last  hour  to 
crisp  the  pork. 

Baked  Lima  Beans 

Wash  one  pound  dry  lima  beans  and  let  soak  in  tepid  water 
for  about  two  hours.  When  the  beans  wrinkle,  drain  and 
cover  with  fresh  warm  water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  reduce  the 
flame  and  let  simmer  for  about  one  hour. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  paprika. 
Make  a  brown  gravy  of  flour,  fat  and  some  of  the  bean  water. 
Turn  the  beans  into  a  greased  casserole  and  pour  the  gravy 
over;  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 


Creamed  Lima  Beans 

Soak  one  cup  of  dried  limas  over  night  in  enough  cold  water 
to  cover.   Drain  and  cook  until  soft  in  hot  salted  water. 
Drain  and  add  three'quarters  cup  cream,  stir  through  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika. 
Serves  six. 


REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  235 

Casserole  of  Kidney  Beans 

Serves  six  generously. 

1  pint  kidney  beans  meat 

2  chopped  carrots  1  tablespoon  sugar   (brown 
2  slices  onions  or  white) 

1  cup  canned  tomatoes  V/z  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  chopped  left'over  Speck  of  pepper 

Soak  the  kidney  beans  and  then  cook  in  salted  water  until 

tender.   Drain  and  add  the  carrots  and  onions. 

Warm  the  tomatoes,  season  and  add  the  sugar.    Spread  the 

chopped  meat  on  the  bottom  of  a  greased  casserole,  season 

and  pour  over  the  beans  and  other  vegetables.   Dot  with  but' 

ter,  cover  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  vegetables  are 

tender.  Uncover  for  a  short  time  to  allow  to  brown. 


Lima  Beans  and  Marshmallows 

1  pound  dry  lima  beans  4  strips  bacon 

3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  Salt  and  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  do:!;en  marshmallows 

Soak  the  Hmas  in  cold  water  for  five  or  six  hours.   Drain  off 

this  water  and  add  boiling  water  to  cover.  Cook  on  a  low 

flame  for  half  an  hour  or  until  tender. 

Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar,  then  the  seasoning.  Turn 

the  tender  beans  into  a  greased  casserole,  pour  over  the  butter 

and  seasoning.  Lay  the  strips  of  bacon  on  the  top.    Bake  with 

the  cover  on  for  about  one  hour  in  a  warm  oven  (350  degrees 

F.),  add  water  if  necessary.    Remove  the  cover  and  put  the 

marshmallows  on  top  of  the  bacon.   Brown  under  the  broiler 

flame. 

Serve  in  the  casserole. 


Mexican  Beans 

1  poimd  ground  roimd  steak  1  medium  sized  can  tomato 

1  large  onion  soup 

1  sweet  green  pepper  1  can  kidney  beans 

2  tablespoons  butter  or 
shortening 


236  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Heat  the  butter  or  shortening.  Add  finely  chopped  onions 
and  let  simmer  until  brown.  Add  meat  and  finely  chopped 
peppers.  Stir  until  the  meat  becomes  juicy.  Take  from  fire 
and  add  seasoning  to  taste.  Place  in  greased  baking  dish.  Pour 
a  can  of  tomato  soup  and  a  can  of  kidney  beans  over  it.  Dot 
with  butter.  Place  in  hot  oven  about  a  half  an  hour,  or,  until 
done. 


Boiled  Sweet  Com 

Remove  the  husks  and  silk  from  the  com.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  ten  to  twenty  minutes.  More  cobs  require 
longer  time.   Drain  the  water  and  serve  with  butter  and  salt. 


Canned  Com 

Sprinkle  one  tablespoon  flour  over  a  can  of  com,  add  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  onchalf  cup  milk.  Stir  and  cook 
xmtil  thoroughly  heated  through.   Season  and  serve  hot. 


Com  Pudding 

1  can  com  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  sugar 
Pepper  and  salt  1  pint  milk 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly  and  mix  all  the  other  ingredients  with 
it.  Pour  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
a  firm  pudding  is  formed. 

Corn  Saute 

Cut  the  tops  of  the  kernels  of  twelve  ears  of  com.  Cut  along 
the  center  of  the  line  of  kernels.  With  the  back  of  the  knife, 
scrape  out  the  pulp  and  avoid  taking  the  kernel  or  the  husk. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  in  a  pan  with  two  tablespoons 
butter  or  bacon  fat.  Simmer  imder  cover  for  five  minutes  and 
cook  uncovered  for  five  more  minutes  until  the  com  is  tender. 
A  little  chopped  green  pepper  may  be  added. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  237 

Escalloped  Com 

2  cans  com  1  cup  of  milk 

1  large  cup  of  cracker  Yi  pound  American  cheese 
crumbs                                         Butter,  salt,  pepper 

Put  layer  of  com  in  bottom  of  baking  dish.  Then  a  generous 
sprinkling  of  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter,  season  with  pep' 
per  and  salt.  Last  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  repeat  over 
again  and  last  pour  over  milk.  Bake  about  forty  minutes. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash,  peel  and  bake  enough  sweet  potatoes  to  cover  shallow 
glass  baking  dish.  When  thoroughly  baked,  remove  from 
oven  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  marshmallows.  Put  back  in 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

Baked  Potatoes 

Select  smooth  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Wash  and  scrub  off 
any  dirt.  Rub  with  sweet  butter  or  olive  oil  before  placing  in 
oven  to  bake.  Small  potatoes  take  twenty  five  minutes  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  medium  siz^e  require  fortyfive  minutes  and 
large  Idaho  potatoes  an  hour. 

Baked  Potatoes  and  Cheese 

6  large  potatoes  (baked)  J^  pound  pimento  or 

1/3  cup  hot  milk  American  cheese,  grated 

2  teaspoons  salt  }/%  teaspoon  paprika 

Cut  potatoes  in  half  lengthwise  and  scoop  out  the  centers. 
Mash  thoroughly.  Add  cheese  to  hot  milk  and  beat  with  egg 
beater  imtil  smooth.  Mix  with  the  potatoes,  add  seasoning 
and  whip  out  until  light  and  creamy.  Refill  the  potato  shells 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes. 


238  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare  and  cut  potatoes  in  long  strips  one'quarter  inch 
by  one-quarter  inch.    Stand  in  cold  water.    Heat  fat  to  400 
degrees  F.    Shake  the  potato  sUces  dry  in  a  towel  and  put  a 
few  at  a  time  in  the  hot  fat. 
Fry  for  about  five  minutes  or  until  crisp  and  brown. 

Lyotinaise  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.  Shce  an  onion  and  fry  in  two  tablespoons  butter  or  beef 
fat.  Have  the  butter  very  hot  and  turn  in  the  potatoes.  Cook 
until  the  potatoes  have  taken  in  the  fat  and  serve  with 
chopped  parsley. 

Creamed  New  Potatoes 

6  small  new  potatoes  j/^  cup  cream 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Scrape  the  new  potatoes  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour  in  cold 

water.   Boil  in  the  salted  water  until  tender. 

Put  them  in  a  sauce  pan,  with  the  cream,  butter,  lemon  juice 

and   seasoning.     Shake   well   over   the   fire.     Sprinkle   with 

chopped  parsley  or  caraway  seed  or  both. 

Potato  Cakes 

Season  cold  or  hot  potatoes  highly  and  add  enough  beaten 
egg  to  moisten.  Mold  into  cakes  and  roll  in  flour.  Saute  a 
golden  brown. 

Mashed  Potatoes 

6  hot  cooked  potatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

6  tablespoons  milk  Pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Rice  or  mash  the  potatoes  thoroughly  to  free  from  any  lumps. 

Add  the  hot  milk,  butter  and  then  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  with 

a  fork  to  make  creamy  and  fluffy.  Reheat  and  serve  in  a  hot 

dish  garnished  with  parsley  and  dotted  with  butter. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  239 

Potatoes  O'Brien 

6  medium'sized  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

Chopped  pimentos 

Wash,  pare  and  dice  potatoes.  Shake  dry  in  a  towel.  Fry 
in  hot  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  Just 
before  they  are  done  put  the  pimento  chopped  fine,  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  potatoes  and 
cook  together.  Keep  shaking  the  potatoes  so  that  they  do  not 
stick  to  the  pan. 


Puffed  Potatoes 

Cut  the  potatoes  thicker  than  for  chips.  Drop  at  once  into 
warmed  fat.  Bring  the  fat  to  a  boil.  Shake  the  sUces  while 
cooking.  When  they  puff  up  and  become  brown,  they  are 
ready  to  serve. 


Saratoga  Chips 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  slice  them  very  fine.  Soak  in  coW 
salty  water  for  one  hour.  Shake  in  a  towel  to  remove  the 
moisture.  Put  into  a  frying'basket  and  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a 
golden  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  while  drying, 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Serve  with  broiled  meats. 
To  freshen  stale  or  moist  chips,  place  in  a  hot  oven  a  few 
minutes  before  serving. 


Marshmallow  Potato  Balls 

8  marhsmallows  J/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  riced  boiled  sweet  Pepper 

potatoes  Cornflakes 

1  egg 

Rice  the  boiled  and  peeled  sweet  potatoes.  Beat  the  egg  and 
with  seasoning  stir  into  the  riced  potatoes.  Roll  the  paste 
over  the  marshmallows  into  balls.  Use  one  marshmallow  to  a 
ball. 


240  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Roll  the  balls  into  the  cornflakes  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat 
Brown  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

6  medium  potatoes  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Peel  and  slice  the  potatoes  and  soak  in  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Drain  and  arrange  the  slices  in  a  deep  baking  dish  by  layers. 
Sprinkle  each  layer  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  with 
butter  before  covering  with  the  next  layer.  Pour  milk  over 
the  whole  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  if  desired.  Bake 
for  an  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450  degrees  F.). 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

5  large  cooked  sweet  poto'  3  tablespoons  butter 

toes  Yz  cup  brown  sugar 

Slice  the  potatoes  lengthwise  and  arrange  in  a  flat  baking  dish. 
Dot  with  butter.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  a  little 
salt. 

Put  iinder  the  flame  on  the  broiling  rack  and  baste  the  syrup 
over  the  potatoes.    Serve  in  the  ba^dng  dish. 

Boiled  Rice 

1  cup  rice  8  cups  water 

Boil  the  water  and  add  one  teaspoon  salt.    Drop  the  rice  in 

very  slowly  so  that  the  water  continues  to  boil.    Boil  rapidly 

for  half  an  hour. 

Drain  off  the  water  in  a  colander.   Run  very  cold  water  over 

the  rice  for  five   minutes.    Drain  the  water  off,   stand   the 

colander  in  a  bowl  in  the  oven  and  let  the  rice  dry.    Have 

the  oven  door  open.   When  dry  and  fluffy,  turn  into  a  dish, 

add  butter  and  serve. 

Spanish  Rice 

Yz  cup  rice   (cooked)  1  cup  soup'Stock 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon   chopped  onion 

Yl  cup  tomato  juice 

Wash  and  drain  the  rice  and  fry  to  a  Hght  brown  in  butter. 

Add  the  tomato-juice  and  the  chopped  onion.   Cook  for  ten 

minutes.    Then  add  soup'Stock  and  season. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 


241 


Simmer  under  cover  until  all  the  liquid  is  gone.  To  cook  the 
rice  thoroughly  will  take  about  threcquarters  of  an  hour. 


2  tablespoons  chopped 

mushrooms 
1  tablespoon  capers 
Yl  teaspoon  salt 
J4  teaspoon  paprika 


Spanish  Rice,  Casserole 

2  cups  of  cooked  rice 
XYz  cups   canned  tomatoes 
2  tablespoons  butter  or 

olive  oil 
2  tablespoons  chopped 

onion 
2  tablespoons  chopped 

green  pepper 
Cook  onions,  peppers,  mushrooms,  capers  and  seasoning  in 
butter  or  oil  until  onions  have  browned.    Add  tomatoes  and 
cook  until  some  of  moisture  has  cooked  off.   Mix  with  rice  in 
greased  casserole. 

Cover  with  crumbs  and  a  little  cheese.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  thoroughly  heated  thru. 


Spanish  Rice  Casserole 

2  cups  cooked  rice 
2  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

2  tablespoons  chopped 
green  pepper 


\Yl  cups  canned  tomatoes 
1  tablespoon  chopped 

mushroom 
Bread  crumbs 
Salt  and  pepper 


Melt  the  butter  and  brown  the  onion  in  it,  add  the  green 
pepper,  mushroom,  tomato  and  seasoning.  Cook  until  the 
moisture  has  nearly  evaporated  and  leaves  a  thick  paste. 
Arrange  in  alternate  layers  in  a  greased  casserole.  Cover  the 
top  with  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  mixture  has 
heated  through  and  the  crumbs  have  browned. 


Wild  Rice  Ring 

Wash  the  wild  rice,  drain  and  place  in  a  double  boiler  and 
steam  for  three-quarters  hour  until  tender.  Season  and  add 
three  tablespoons  butter. 


242  RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Turn  into  a  greased  ring  mold  or  melon  mould  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.    Bake  about  fifteen 
minutes.    To  turn  out,  loosen  the  edges  and  place  upside 
down  on  a  platter.   Serve  with  wild  game  or  poultry. 
Ordinary  rice  may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

Spaghetti  Italienne 

J/2  pound  spaghetti  J4  cup  olive  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  chopped 
Grated  cheese  green  peppers 

Cabbage,  Spaghetti  and  Cheese 

4  cups  shredded  cabbage  4  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  cooked  spaghetti  Yi  pound  American  cheese 
2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  the  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Make 
a  sauce  of  the  flour,  butter,  milk,  and  salt.  Shave  up  the  cheese 
and  add  it  to  the  hot  sauce.  Put  the  cabbage,  spaghetti  and 
sauce  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  layers  and  cover  the  top  with 
buttered  bread  crumbs.  Cook  for  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate  oven. 

Strawberry  Fritters 

Sift  together  one-half  cup  of  flour,  onc'half  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  one  egg  beaten  very 
light,  two  tablespoons  of  milk  and,  last,  two  teaspoons  of 
melted  buter.  Drop  12  large  strawberries  in  batter,  coat  well 
and,  using  a  large  spoon,  drop  into  hot  fat.   Serve  with  sugar. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding 

Grate  four  good  si2;ed  sweet  potatoes;  add  one  pint  milk,  two 
eggs  beaten  light,  two  cups  sugar,  oncfourth  pound  of  butter, 
one'fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon,  onc'fourth  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  onchalf  hour.  Before  removing  from 
oven  cover  top  with  marshmallow,  and  brown.  Fine  served 
hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


RECIPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS  243 

Sweet  Potato  Pone 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  peel,  mash  and  put  through  a  sieve.  To 
two  cups  of  the  potato  add  a  half  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 
a  full  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  Uttle  lemon  flavoring  and  one 
beaten  egg.  This  recipe  calls  for  a  quarter  cup  of  sugar  but 
may  use  less.  Now  beat  all  ingredients  until  they  become 
light  and  creamy.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  until 
it  is  a  golden  brown  on  top. 

Corn  and  Cheese  Souffle 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  chopped  com 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  1  cup  grated  cheese 
pepper                                          3  eggs 

Yl  cup  flour  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk 

Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the  peppers  thoroughly  in  it.  Make 
a  sauce  out  of  the  flour,  milk  and  cheese;  add  the  com,  egg 
yolks  and  seasoning;  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  beaten  stiffly; 
turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven 
thirty  minutes. 

Spaghetti  and  Bacon 

Cook  one  package  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  for  half  an 
hour.  Tum  into  colander  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Cut  six 
slices  bacon  in  inch  lengths.  Cook  over  slow  fire,  turning  frc 
quently.  Remove  bacon  and  fry  three  medium  sized  sliced 
onions  in  the  bacon  drippings  until  light  brown.  Then  add  2 
cups  tomatoes,  a  level  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  sprinkling  of 
cayenne  pepper.  Cook  until  onions  are  soft.  Then  add  bacon 
and  spaghetti.  Cook  over  hot  water  imtil  flavors  are  well 
blended. 

Corn  Pudding 

2  eggs  well  beaten  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  cup  milk 

Add  to  above  1  can  golden  bantam  com  and  2  cups  com 
flakes.   Mix  all  together  well  and  place  in  dish  ready  to  bake. 


244  REaPES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 

Top  with  butter  and  bake  at  350  degrees  until  custard  has  set. 
Test  it  by  cutting  a  knife  into  it,  which  should  come  out  dry 
if  done. 

1  pint  can  of  tomatoes  2  teaspoons  sugar 

2  medium  si2;ed  onions,  Chopped  parsley 
chopped 

Cook  spaghetti  in  salted  water. 

Cook  onions  and  pepper  in  olive  oil  until  half  tender.    Add 

canned  tomatoes,  parsley,  salt  and  sugar.    Cook  very  slowly 

until  onions  are  tender. 

Turn  cooked  spaghetti  into  a  warmed  dish,  stir  cheese  into 

sauce,  pour  sauce  over  spaghetti  and  serve  very  hot.    Serve 

additional  dry  grated  cheese  in  a  side  dish. 

Vegetable  Pudding 

6  large  potatoes  1  quart  milk 

1  large  onion  1  pound  bacon 

2  cans  com  1  tablespoon  flour 

Cut  the  bacon  into  small  pieces  and  brown.  Cut  the  onions 
fine  and  brown  in  part  of  the  bacon  fat.  Put  in  a  layer  of 
potatoes,  a  little  flour,  a  layer  of  com,  bacon  and  browned 
onion.  Repeat  until  all  the  ingredients  are  used.  Cover  with 
milk  and  bake. 

Succotash 

Mix  one  cup  boiled  Hma  beans  and  one  cup  boiled  corn; 
using  left  over  com  from  cob  if  available.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  heat  in  a  Httle  melted  butter,  add  one'quarter 
cup  milk  and  when  thoroughly  heated,  serve.  Chopped  green 
pepper  may  be  added  for  flavor  and  color. 

Red  Rice 

4  tablespoons  rice  5  slices  bacon 

1  small  can  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

4  small  onions 

Place  rice  and  tomatoes  in  cooking  dish;  add  sliced  onions  and 

bacon  cut  into  small  pieces.   Add  1  cup  hot  water.   After  mix- 

ture  begins  to  cook,  season  and  allow  to  steam  for  V/z  hours. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeaL 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  yariety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insen 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AlvIERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  i«  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

»uch  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purp6sely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AIvlERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

iiave  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AlvIERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purpbsely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Bo.ok)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  ia  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  Insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  inscn 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


This  page  is  purposely  left  blank  in  order  that  you  may  insert 

such  recipes  (not  already  appearing  in  this  Cook  Book)  as  may 

have  a  special  appeal. 

Recipes  appear  daily  in  the  CHICAGO  EVENING  AMERICAN 
and  may  add  variety  to  the  menu. 


K 
7/$ 


THE  LIBRARY 
UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 

Santa  Barbara 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW. 


"ifci-        -  ITT  i71 


■:;:::»n 


su 


Slav 


i<|(^ 


50m-9,'6b  (0633888)9182 


A     000  582  623     5 


