?Sf^^^^' 


«• 


m 


[&j 


m 


GIFT 


GIFT  OF 
Mrs.    William  Denman 


fcHAS.E.l'AURlATea^ 

)385Wash'nSt.Boston 


A  BOOK  OF  SIMPLES 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/bookofsimplesOOIewerich 


^ 


:n> 


!^MP^ 


:tr.LfCrc-cti  S   uL, 


__     _   ,   _  ,_      ,^     .  ^,  ^        Djbi.:r*j^'{ 

?i-:crCinL  yoiuriruiTtf  tau  i^i^i  Jii  a  ccicd'PJ^c'Hj  Co  yvitfiir  tmh  oh:-:: 

ifitiL  vat  rj  !ntah^  ivfiitnnrLLtc  ita^  :vi(i\iVY^j.:i'nLu  u'ti  HuiW'i^j  :< 

J-  ,C.:. ^, A  „    .   ,-.     ,L':." .^,    ^..  r."    ■-,  r/V -    .     ^ -V,  • 


to  frfdj  '.i-?Xir  'JuJiCL 


foc0b. 


jiT"! 


jafjdi  '^Vatn 


^ 


^aJa  /cot  r ck i n a ru  'f  Itt c  iiu 


..rd  tuath 


.//•^,. 


c:vt:-rj  g  j??  /  ur:  r r. .  J  :  ^ 


^,S%. 


^T^at^ 


•i^oAvm  Litict£i:iai^^^t  "fiiid  tlkvL.':ti'.-to  tfiCnt  ^acnui  motfzHrrvcrtJa 
cnic  ciinci:-  rjut  tfittiv LnV!)  xuirtit  a ;■??:«  -m a.: iii :fc'j-i* trader  fCoyv^. 

-■  udincyCr^dC.^ a:\  c%!nah::j/}-r/icay(iKb  S'7:ci&L  car^hvunu  0161/63  ounh 

■oJtimi(^hT±x>  fpcniWtr  aYii:  fjiif^' -tiiim  into  hht^'d'ufiXCi^  tvaterai^/juf-ki 

uhJmoA 


J6(P 


■^eiiuu  ci^ih:  f'^m/jetf  ^U^awr" 


nj.c  4u 


a  -flu  -YL  nKiUjufj  Of  '':'f^'it  y^z  i 


Icih^f/jfacL  it  /tr&riqfkf'nttA  off.  nijnht\.cm.<juirii  naiHra/'/pbrUj  ^  caa/r^ti'i  f 


upit^p 


.:7  t'   ted 


'.'jatCT.    Hun  J  [tln.'t:ULikj^iUti^ 
t  t  iid'ii,  via.  If  A  /U-c'/tAQsu 


Ijfif  (xri^  apn^ofiodt.-^  tfcnx  irMitQt'UCiii  mwi^  t"t>ery  ficrur  to'rej^i'rc'i///>'a:h^ 


J^^: 


'lah--^f^lL,  iMm  ¥•  '.'(aiyri.'o 


^^-r-^/rah  iiatt<f  t^i  tt  rmM,  tarn  to  otA^uyAn  It  \i  h^.^^.p^-^r  T^rwiPjL 


A  BOOK  OF 
SIMPLES 


*" 


"  Delirious  perfons  here  a  cure  may  find ^ 
Tofiem  the  phrenfy  and  to  calm  the  mind'' 


SECOND  IMPRESSION 


LONDON 

SAMPSON  LOW,  MARSTON  AND  CO.  Ltd. 

loo,  SOUTH WARK  STREET,  S.E. 


CHISWICK  PRESS  :   CHARLES  WHITTINGHAM  AND  CO. 
TOOKS  COURT,   CHANCERY  LANE,   LONDON. 


yKjL^i,  oOjMx^u  4J)u^^u^4y^ 


•  •♦_•• 


•  •••;•••      ••       ••• 

•  •••••••     •  ••  •       •   ••• 

•  •     ••••••      «••••• 


INTRODUCTION 

nr^HFj  original  of  this  little  book  was  found  in 
^  the  library  of  a  diftinguijhed  EJfex  antiquary: 
the  document  has  unfortunately  no  hijlory^  but 
from  its  appearance  and  comprehenfve  character 
it  muji  have  been  the  ft  ill-room  book  offome  manor 
houfe  or  homejlead  of  /landing, 

The  manufcript  is  a  folio  compofed  entirely  of 
velluniy  bound  in  green ^  with  a  conventional  defign 
in  gold:  the  binding  of  this  book  is  a  reduced 
facfimile  of  the  original.  The  writing  is  in  the 
hand  of  fever  al  per  Jons:  the  fpelling  and  abfence 
of  punctuation  are  here  reproduced  in  all  their 
original  quaintnefs,  The  book  has  been  fubmitted 
to  experts^  who  are  of  opinion  that  it  covers  a 
period  of  fome  fifty  years ^  termijiating  about  the 
middle  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  condition  of  many  of  the  rural  difiriBs  of 
England  in  the  eighteenth  century  and  the  almofi  im- 
pajfable  ftate  of  the  roads  are  brought  home  to  us  by  a 
writer  in  "  The  Gentleman's  Magazine''  (1757), 
in  the  following  defer  ipt  ion:  "  It  took  my  horje  up 
to  the  belly  the  fecond  ftep  he  took  on  the  road,,  and 
had  I  not  difmounted  and  clambered  up  fome  bujhes 
I  had  been  lodged  there  for  a  feafon."  The  ifola- 
tion  of  the  country  in  thofe  days  is  almofi  incon- 


iwl20366 


ceivabte;  the  difficulties  of  travel  were  immenfe^ 
and  afurvivaloffeudallegijlation  tied  the  labourer 
to  the  foil.  Thus  we  may  look  upon  the  manor  or 
farmhoufe,  with  its  retainers,  as  a  detached  focial 
unit,  and,  in  a  fparfely  populated  country,  almoji 
a  fate  in  itfelf 

It  is  not  difficult  to  form  a  pidlure  of  the  lady 
of  the  houfe:  amid  her  other  duties  /he  dijpenfed 
doles  and  charity  to  the  poor  around  her.  Through 
her  knowledge  offmples  /he  was  alfo  ''fimpler  "  of 
all  the  ills  that  fe/h  is  heir  to,  not  only  in  the  cafe 
of  man,  but  alfo  of  be  aft,  Thewifdom  and  ohferva- 
tion  of  a  long  procefjion  of  forebears  are  fummed  up 
in  the  recipes  gathered  in  this  hook. 

Herbs,  too,  fhe  knew,  and  well  of  each  could  fpeak, 
That  in  her  garden  fip'd  the  filvery  dew ; 
Where  no  vain  flower  difclofd  a  gaudy  ftreak ; 
But  herbs  for  ufe,  and  phyfic,  not  a  few, 
Of  grey  renown  within  thofe  borders  grew ; 
The  tufted  baiil,  pun-provoking  thyme, 
Frefh  balm,  and  mary-gold  of  cheerful  hue; 
The  lowly  gill,  that  never  dares  to  climb ; 

#  ♦  *  ♦  * 

And  lavender,  whofe  fpikes  of  azure  bloom 

Shall  be  ere-while  in  arid  bundles  bound 

To  lurk  amidft  the  labours  of  her  loom, 

And  crown  her  kerchiefs  clean,  with  mickle  rare  perfume. 

In  thefe  days,  when  the  good  manager  is  fear ce, 
it  is  perhaps  difficult  to  realize  or  appreciate  that 
domeftic  ceconomy  was  once  pradlifed  as  a  fcience, 
founded  upon  the  older  herhalifts,  houjewives'  tales 
and  oral  tradition,  the  whole  adminiftered  by 
rule  of  thumb.  As  will  be  feen,  the  domeftic 
pharmacopoeia  had  not  yet  emerged  from  the  feven- 

vl 


teenth  century,  The  ajiro  logical  atmofphere  of  Cul- 
pepper^ who  warns  us  that  he  "  who  would  know  the 
operation  of  the  herbs  mujl  look  up  to  the  Jiars 
ajlrologically,'*  and  the  writings  of  Parkin/on^ 
clearly  fhow  the  influence  of  that  period.  The  pre- 
dominance of  the  healing  properties  of  herbs  is  fill 
more  apparent  in  this  book;  there  is  not  a  fngle 
remedy  or  fmple  in  which  their  virtues  are  not fet 
forth. 

In  my  ladys  garden^  fet  within  its  red-brick 
walls.,  grew  Camomile^  Bafl^  Cardons.,  Angelica^ 
Sweet  Chevril^  Tanfy.,  Saffron.,  Elecampane.,  ^yf- 
fop.,  Thyme,  Marjoram.,  Purflane,  Sage,  Rofemary, 
Rue,  Pennyroyal,  Borage,  Liquorice^  Horehound 
and  many  other  plants.  With  thefe  herbs  were 
cultivated  Gillyflower.,  P^^fy,  Pinks,  Bergamot, 
Southernwood,  Bay,  Rofes,  fafmine,  Lavender 
and  divers  fweet-fcented  plants  for  the  making  of 
Jimples,  perfumes,  and  '^fweete  waters.'' 

Tlie  houfewife,  before  entering  on  her  duties, 
mufl  have  ferved  an  apprenticefliip;  doubt lefs  it 
formed  the  ferious  buflnefs  of  her  life.  How  many 
women  nowadays  follow  the  example  of  their 
anceflors?  The  eafy  accefs  of  the  doilor,  the 
facilities  of  communication,  the  quack  remedies  ob- 
tained from  the  neighbouring  chymifl,  have  fuper- 
feded  the  old-fajhioned  flmples. 

The  old  herb  garden  is  a  wildernefs,  and  even 
the  names  of  its  occupants  have  almofl  paffed  away. 
Perchance  this  little  book  may  help  us  to  picture  it 
at  its  prime,  with  all  its  old-world  atmofphere, 
and  haunting  memories  of  much  that  is  flill  precious. 
It  may  alfo  bring  back  the  fweet  mingled  f cent  of 

vii 


the  herb  garden,  the  '*  murmuring  of  innumerable 
bees^'  the  Jliimmering  of  the  fun  on  Jheltered  pleaf- 
aunce  and  well-trimmed  hedge  of  yew,  creating  an 
image  delightful  to  recall. 

Although  many  herbals  and  culinary  manu- 
fcripts  and  books  date  back  to  a  much  earlier 
period,  as  may  be  feen  in  the  bibliography,  yet  they 
are  now  fcarce  and  difficult  to  obtain,  "This  par- 
ticular example  is  inter ejiing  becaufe  of  the  magic 
of  its  herb-lore  and  the  added  charm  of  the  making 
of  conferves  and  perfumes  and  the  preferring  of 
viands.  Moreover,  it  has  that  per  final  touch  want- 
ing info  many  books  of  afmilar  nature.  One  may 
note  the  words  at  the  end  of  fome  of  the  fimples, 
"  Probatum^  or  ^''  Probatum  eft''  What  a  world 
of  meaning  and  fat  is faB  ion  they  imply! 

I  am  indebted  to  Mifs  I.  L.  Gould  and  Mifs 
B.  M.  Gould  for  the  long  labour  and  per  fever  ance 
they  have  beftowed  in  de cyphering  the  faded  fcript , 
arid  to  Mr,  f.  Manning  Watts  for  his  refe  arc  lies 
into  the  virtues  and  properties  formerly  attributed 
to  thefe  herbs ^  and  for  his  inveftigation  into  the 
proper  fpelling  of  their  names,  which  appear  in  the 
manufcript  according  to  the  light  of  nature. 

It  will  be  obferved  that  the  items  in  the  Index 
are  not  always  in  ftridt  alphabetical  order,  'This 
will  not,  however,  ferioufty  interfere  with  refer- 
ence to  any  recipe,  and  it  has  therefore  been  thought 
better  to  retain  them  as  originally  compiled, 

H,  W.  Lewer. 
nth  Auguji,  1908. 


Vlll 


A  BOOK  OF   SIMPLES 

I.  The  Wood'ftreet  Cake. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  y®  iineft  flower, 
mingle  into  it  a  little  fait  &  fome  beaten  Cloves 
Mace  &  Nutmegs,  a  pound  and  halfe  of  Currance 
wafh*d  and  dry'd,  &  a  pound  of  Raifins  of  y®  Sun 
fton'd  and  fhred,  then  ftraine  in  about  a  pinte  of  AJe 
yeaft,  and  put  in  y®  yolkes  of  lo  eggs  beaten  with 
Rofe  water,  put  in  a  pint  of  Cream  with  3  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  Butter  melted  in  it.  mingle  all  thefe  well 
together,  and  knead  it,  cover  it  with  a  clothe  and  let 
it  ftand  about  an  hour  before  y®  fire  to  rife,  then 
mould  it  up  and  beat  it  out  thinn  in  y^  edges  and 
thick  in  y®  middle,  then  prick  it  or  cut  it  w*^  a  knife, 
and  fet  it  in  y^  oven,  when  it  is  almofl  bak*d  take  it 
out  and  ice  it  on  y®  top  w*^  Rofe  water  &  fugar  and 
fett  it  in  y^  oven  againe  'till  *tis  enough,  putt  fome 
mufk  or  Ambergreefe  diflblv'd  in  y^  Rofe  water. 

2,   Fe Morals  for  a  Colde  or  Confumption. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  brown  Sugar  Candy,  one 
Ounce  of  Juice  of  LycorifTe,  diflblve  y^  lycorifTe 
in  3  fpoonfuUs  of  Hyfop  water,  put  to  thefe  a  drachm 
of  Orrice  a  drachm  of  Enul-campane,  halfe  a  drachm 
of  Gum  dragon  being  all  made  into  fine  powder, 
mufke  a  graine  then  take  a  drachm  of  oyle  of  Anni- 
feeds,  worke  it  well  together  with  your  hand  and 
make  it  up  into  pedorals  of  what  bignefs  you  pleafe, 
lay  them  on  a  difli  to  dry  before  y®  fire  or  in  an  oven 
after  drawn  bread,  and  keep  them  dry. 


3.   'The  Plague  Water, 

TAKE  Rue,  Agrimony,  Celandine,  Sage,  Worme- 
wood,  Balme,  Feaverfue,  Mugwort,  Tormentil, 
Maiygold  flowers,  Cowflip  flowers,  Panfie  flowers 
leaves  and  all,  Carduus,  Angelicoe,  Dragons,  Pimper- 
nel, Rofemary,  Scordium,  Purple  wort,  Burnet,  Enul 
campane  roots,  of  each  of  thefe  halfe  a  pound  fhred 
fmall,  then  take  Annifeeds,  Carraway,  Coriander,  Car- 
damome,  of  each  of  thefe  two  ounces  bruif 'd,  bruife 
alfoe  your  Enul  campane  roots,  then  fl:eep  all  thefe  in 
an  earthen  pott  in  two  quarts  of  white  wine  and  a 
gallon  of  y^  befl:  Canary,  mixing  them  well  in  y^  liquor, 
fo  let  it  ftand  till  y^  next  day,  then  difl:ill  it  in  an  or- 
dinary fl:ill  clofe  fliop'd,  fl:ill  it  as  foon  as  you  can 
keeping  it  clofe  fl:op'd  whilfl:  it  fl:eeps  and  whilfl:  you 
ftill  it,  fl:irring  it  when  you  put  it  into  y®  fl:ill,  foe 
keep  it  for  your  ufe. 

Y®  Lady  Downs  adds  wood  Sorril  a  good  quantity 
roots  of  Indian  Sneake  weed  i  pound  burdock  roots 
I  lb. 

4.  A  very  excellent  Receipt  againft  Convuljions 
which  curd  one  had  9  Fitts  a  Day, 

TAKE  Race  onyons  and  black  pepper  of  each  a 
little  quantity  fl:amp'd  pretty  fmall  and  lay  it  to 
y^  foals  of  y^  feet  keep  it  on  7  houres,  whilfl:  y®  party 
is  in  y®  fitt  force  them  not  to  take  any  thing  inwardly 
but  anoynt  y^  wrifts  on  y®  infide,  y^  palmes  of  y® 
hands,  y*^  Temples  and  y^  nofl:rills  (if  it  be  a  childe) 
with  Methridate  (if  not)  with  oyle  or  fpirit  of  Amber, 
between  y®  fitts  let  it  drinke  black  cherrey  water 
fweetned  with  fyrrop  of  Cloves  &  fyrrop  of  Pyonies 
for  a  weeks  time  after  y^  fitts  firft  and  lafl:  let  them 
ware  a  necklace  of  fingle  pyonie  roots  alwayes  about 
theire  neck,  avoid  giving  fyrrop  of  Violets  if  you 
fear  fitts,  but  fyrrop  of  Rofes  and  Succory  is  good  to 


be  given  together  when  coftive  this  may  be  given  to 
children  of  any  age. 

5.   To  make  Ebulum  Drinke, 

PUT  one  peck  of  Elder  berries  to  the  quantity  of 
halfe  a  hogfhead  of  Ale  2  penny  worth  of  Ginger 
fliced  2  nutmegs  and  a  penny  worth  of  Cloves  & 
mace  bruife  all  your  Spices  boyle  all  together  with 
the  berrys  till  they  breake,  then  ftrain  them  through 
a  Straining  Sive  and  when  tis  coole  as  your  ufuall 
wort  put  barm  to  it  as  to  beer,  there  muft  iome  hops 
be  boyl'd  in  it.  And  when  fitt  to  bottle,  bottle  it  with 
a  lumpe  of  loave  Sugar  it  will  drink  much  y®  more 
Lively,  it  is  good  for  y^  Spleen  or  Dropfy. 

6.   To  make  Vinegar, 

TAKE  Sower  grapes  pound  them  and  prefs  them 
through  a  hair  bag  as  you  do  Sider.  &  to  every 
4  Gallons  put  as  much  AUom  as  a  walnut  then  boyle 
it  well  and  Scumme  it  as  the  Scumme  rifeth  as  clean 
as  poffible  then  Coole  it  and  when  through  coole  put 
it  into  a  veflel  and  when  Stale  ufe  of  it  and  it  will  be 
very  good  vinegar. 

7.    To  make  Goojbery  or  Currant  Wine, 

TAKE  2  Gallons  of  Spring  water  Set  it  over  the 
fire  boyle  it  a  little  then  put  4  pound  of  powder 
Sugar  let  it  boyle  and  Scume  it  well  take  it  off  and 
Strain  it  and  when  it  is  as  coole  as  wort  put  2  fpoon- 
fuUs  of  barm  to  it  let  it  worke  a  little  then  to  every 
gallon  of  water  put  5  quarts  of  Goofberys  or  currants 
firft  hand  picket  and  bruifed  put  it  in  a  little  barrell 
&  ftir  it  once  a  day  &  keep  it  clofe  Stopt  let  it  ftand 
3  or  4  days  and  when  you  once  begin  to  See  it  Sink 
Strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag  and  put  it  in  the  Calk 
being  waifhed  out  with  the  Same  liquor  Stop  it  up 

3 


very  clofe  &  when  you  think  it  may  be  fine  draw  it 
off  into  bottles. 

8.   To  make  Methegline, 

TAKE  1 2  quarts  of  honey  to  1 2  gallons  and  a 
pottle  of  water  and  a  fagott  of  thefe  following 
herbs  Sweet  bryer  Sweet  marjerrom,  rofemary  and 
mufkecouife  of  each  a  fmall  handfuU  and  boyle  them 
in  the  water  and  honey  all  the  time  it  boyles  and  that 
muft  be  a  full  hour,  keep  fcumming  of  it  clean,  then 
take  a  bag  of  thefe  following  Spices  nutmegs,  Cloves 
mace  and  cinament,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each  but 
moft  of  nutmegs  tie  them  up  in  a  bag  with  a  bullet  in 
it  that  may  caufe  it  to  Sink  into  the  middle  of  your 
liquor  as  it  boyles,  and  let  it  boyle  above  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  then  take  it  off  and  take  out  the  herbs  and 
Spices  and  Set  Some  a  cooling,  and  when  as  coole  as 
wort  put  in  about  half  a  pint  of  Ale  barm,  and  when 
coole  enough  and  that  it  hath  got  a  good  head  tun  it 
up  as  you  do  Ale,  or  other  liquors,  and  when  it  hath 
done  workeing  hang  in  again  the  Same  bag  of  Spices 
you  took  out  into  your  barrell  Stope  it  up  till  it  be 
clear  and  then  bottle  it  up. 

9.  A  Plaifter  for  ye  Spleen  to  he  made  in  May, 

TAKE  mellilot  and  cammomile  of  each  3  hand- 
fulls,  paflley  and  plantin  of  each  one  handfull, 
and  ftamp  them  together,  a  pound  of  Sweet  mutton 
Sewet,  1 2  ounces  of  virgins  wax,  3  pound  of  rozin, 
a  pint  of  white  wine.  Shred  the  wax  and  Sewet  and 
beat  the  rozin  put  all  together  in  an  earthen  pot  and 
let  it  ftand  over  the  fire  till  it  be  all  melt'd  together, 
and  then  take  it  oflF  and  cover  it  clofe  let  it  ftand  i 
day  in  cellar  then  Sett  it  over  the  fire  and  let  it  boyle 
halfe  an  hour,  then  take  it  off  and  ftrain  it  into  2 
difties  puting  fome  water  into  the  bottom  of  the  difties, 
and  when  tis  cold  you  muft  fold  it  up  clofe  in  oyFci 

4 


paper  it  will  keep  four  or  five  years,  you  muft  ufe 
this  when  you  feel  the  pain  on  the  left  Side,  and  cut 
a  piece  of  Sheepikin  the  breadth  of  your  hand  or  more 
and  about  a  quarter  of  a  yard  long  and  make  it  hollow 
in  ye  middle  of  the  uper  Side  as  the  Spleen  lyes  and 
prick  it  full  of  holes  on  the  flefhy  fide  of  y®  leather. 
Spread  it  thin  and  Lay  it  to  your  left  Side  where  you 
feel  your  pain  and  when  it  will  ftick  no  longer  you 
may  make  a  frefh  one  if  need  require  this  ufe  allways 
when  you  feel  your  pain  &  you  Shall  never  be 
troubled  with  the  Spleen  &  it  will  prevent  many 
other  difeafes  that  may  come  by  reafon  of  y®  Spleen. 

lo.   To  make  Aquamirahilis  the  Lady  Atkin/es  way. 

TAKE  Cardimum,  cubibs,  mellilot  flowers,  gal- 
lingall  nutmegs ;  ginger  mace  and  Cloves  of 
each  a  dram  all  thefe  muil  be  bruifed  and  infufed  one 
night  in  3  pints  of  white  wine  one  pint  of  aquavite 
one  pint  of  the  juice  of  falendine  the  next  day  diftil 
them  in  a  clofe  Still  twill  run  a  pottle  keep  the  firft 
quart  by  it  Selfe  you  muft  put  to  the  whole  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  Sugar  candy  beaten  very 
finely.  Divide  it  between  2  glafles  and  let  the  mira- 
bilis  drop  into  the  Sugar  candy  and  it  will  diflblve 
when  you  put  all  thefe  things  into  your  clofe  Still  put 
in  a  little  bag  of  Saffron  put  to  y^  infufion  a  handful! 
of  y^  tops  of  rofemary  flowers  w*'^  will  give  it  a  deli- 
cate tafte. 

II.   To  make  Small  Wine  otherwife  called  Solerion, 
Ton  may  do  Rajberry  this  way, 

TAKE  2  gallons  of  Spring  water  fet  it  over  the  fire 
and  let  it  boyle  well,  take  a  pound  of  reafons  of 
the  Sun  Slit  them  open  but  not  Stone  them  and  take 
a  pound  of  white  Sugar  and  when  the  water  is  boyl'd 
put  the  Sugar  &  reafons  to  it,  either  in  a  Steene  or 
Cafke  put  y®  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  rine  of  one 

5 


thin  pared  Stiring  it  once  a  day  keeping  it  clofe 
Stopped  let  it  Stand  3  nights  and  2  days,  let  it  run 
through  a  jelly  bag.  bottle  it  up  and  in  8  or  9  days 
'twill  be  fit  to  drink. 

12.  'To  make  Wigs. 

TAKE  half  a  peck  of  flower,  2  ounces  of  carraway 
and  anyfeeds  then  take  a  pint  of  yeft  the  yolkes 
of  3  eggs  a  little  Salt  one  nutmeg  half  a  pound  of 
Sugar  beat  the  Sugar  and  nutmegs  bruife  the  Seeds 
take  a  quart  of  milk  Scaulding  hot  but  not  to  boyle 
then  put  into  your  milk  half  a  pound  of  butter,  & 
break  another  half  pound  of  butter  into  the  flower  if 
you  pleafe  put  in  6  or  7  fpoonfulls  of  Sack  and  as 
much  rofewater  w*^  your  other  things  then  put  in 
your  milk  by  degrees  mix  it  together  well  but  knead 
it  not  at  all  then  pull  it  in  little  bitts  2  or  3  times 
then  mix  it  up  again  and  mak  them  up  in  wigs  lying 
will  make  them  heavy,  half  an  hour  will  bake  them. 

13.  For  the  Giddine/s  in  the  Head, 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  comming  Seed  and  Steep  it  in 
white  wine  all  night  as  much  wine  as  will  cover 
it  and  then  you  mufl:  dry  it  in  an  oven  after  the  bread 
is  drawn  and  dry  with  it  an  ounce  of  Juniper  berrys 
&  a  handfull  of  rue  then  you  mufl:  beat  all  thefe  to- 
gether to  a  fine  powder  and  when  you  ufe  it  take  as 
much  of  the  powder  as  will  lay  on  a  Sixpence  in  a 
Spoonfull  of  honey  well  mixed  together  or  in  a 
SpoonfuU  of  Sugar  and  take  it  dry. 

14.  How  to  Stue  a  Rump  of  Beef. 

TAKE  the  rump  of  beef  and  Stuffs  him  with  par- 
fley  and  broad  time  &  about  half  a  nutmeg  with 
a  little  beef  Sewet  then  put  him  in  your  pan  with  as 
much  water  as  will  cover  him  &  fo  lett  him  flew 
with  whole  pepper,  Cloves  and  mace  of  each  a  little 
quantity  till  he  is  tender  then  you  mufl:  take  him  out 

6 


&  ftick  him  w*^  cloves  then  ftew  him  again  with  3 
pints  of  the  firft  liquor  and  2  quarts  of  claret,  then 
you  muft  Scrape  in  2  nutmegs  4  anchovife  the  bot- 
toms of  4  hartichokes  a  little  fhellot  half  a  lemon  a 
few  pickled  oyfters,  half  a  fcore  of  turnips  cut  in  half 
quarters  &  fry  them  in  Sweet  butter  till  they  be  ten- 
der then  put  in  fome  Safages :  for  herbs  lettice  and 
fpinnage  and  green  beets  of  each  half  a  handfuU  boyle 
them  in  a  Skillet  of  water  fo  drop  them  out  &  put 
them  in  the  ftewing;  if  your  Soope  be  not  thick 
enough  then  thicken  it  w*^  crums  of  brown  bread. 

15.   'To  make  Almond  Cakes. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  Almonds  blancht  in  cold 
water  beat  them  in  Rofe  water  take  a  pound  of 
double  refined  Sugar  beaten  and  Searcht,  8  fpoonsfuU 
of  fine  flower  8  new  laid  eggs  both  whites  and  yolkes 
Some  Corriander  Seed  prepared,  butter  your  plats 
and  Shake  fome  double  refined  Sugar  on  them. 

16.  'To  make  Bijkit. 

TAKE  2  pound  of  fine  Sugar  beaten  and  fearched 
then  to  a  pound  and  a  half  of  it  put  a  pound  of 
the  fineft  wheat  flower,  take  8  eggs  and  beat  them 
with  2  fpoonfulls  of  Rofe  water,  mingle  your  flower 
and  eggs  together,  then  take  an  ounce  of  anyfeeds 
being  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  white  wine  and  as  you 
beat  your  biflcit  put  in  your  Seeds  and  when  the 
bifkit  begins  to  look  white  put  In  your  plats  &  Shake 
Some  double  refined  Sugar  on  them. 

17.   To  Bake  a  Rump  of  Beef . 

TAKE  a  rump  of  beef  and  bone  it  Seafon  it  with 
pepper  and  fait  put  it  into  a  pan  and  then  put 
to  it  a  little  quantity  of  claret  &  ale  enough  to  cover 
it  about  8  anchovies  2  handfulls  of  capers  6  hole 
oynions,  3  or  4  branches  of  Sage,  time  and  winter 

7 


Savory,  3  or  4  heads  of  Shollot  a  little  quantity  of 
lamakoe  pepper  whole,  lay  the  bones  on  the  top  of 
the  beef  and  cover  it  clofe  with  pafte  and  lett  it  Stand 
in  the  oven  fix  hours  the  oven  being  very  hot. 

18.   The  Black  Seare  Cloth, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  the  beft  virgins  wax  and 
half  a  pint  of  oyle  of  rofes  and  half  a  pint  of 
oyle  of  olive  melt  them  altogether  let  them  coole  in 
a  pan  till  it  be  half  cold  then  take  half  a  pound  of  the 
fineft  white  lead  you  can  get,  pound  it  as  fine  as 
pofTibly  you  can  put  this  into  the  oyle  and  put  it  over 
a  fire  of  coles  and  let  it  boyle  half  an  hour  then  take 
2  ounces  of  maflick  2  ounces  of  frankincenfe  2 
ounces  of  mirrh  2  ounces  of  Gum  oblibanum  beat 
them  into  fine  powder  then  put  it  in  and  let  it  boyle 
half  an  hour  more,  then  take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
camphir  and  put  it  in  and  Stir  it  till  it  be  black  then 
take  it  from  the  fire  and  dipe  your  cloth  or  make  it 
up  in  roles  for  your  ufe. 

19.  'To  make  Lemon  or  Orange  Water, 

TAKE  the  peels  of  8  lemons  or  oranges  and  pare 
of  the  white  very  clean  from  them  then  put 
them  into  a  quart  of  brandy,  then  take  one  pound  of 
double  refined  Sugar  or  other  loafe  Sugar  and  put  it 
into  a  quart  of  water  and  let  it  fland  24  hours  then 
mix  the  water  and  brandy  together  and  flrain  them 
through  a  double  flanin  bag  fo  bottle  it  up  for  ufe. 
Some  fleep  y^  peel  3  days  before  and  after  y®  water 
is  added  fweeten  it  with  white  Sugar  Candy  &  hang 
a  grain  of  mufk  &  ambergreefe  in  the  glafs. 

20.  Cowjlip  Wine  aproved, 

TAKE  3  gallons  of  fair  water  put  to  it  the  befl  of 
powder  Sugar  or  Loaf  Sugar  6  pound  boyle  it 
together  half  an  hour  or  better,  and  as  the  Scumme 


rifeth  take  it  off  then  pour  it  forth  and  fet  it  a  coole- 
ing  and  when  'tis  almoft  cold  take  a  fpoonfull  or 
better  of  good  barm  beat  it  well  together  with  12 
fpoonfuUs  of  Sirrup  of  cittorn  or  lemons  then  put  it 
fome  of  the  liquor  being  almoft  cold  let  it  ftand  a 
while  to  rife  put  in  a  Gallon  of  cowflip  flowers  bruifed 
in  a  marble  morter  into  the  other  liquor  the  while 
then  put  it  altogether  brewing  it  up  and  down  with 
a  difh  then  let  it  ftand  in  an  earthen  pot  clofe  covered 
with  a  cloth,  to  worke  2  or  3  days  then  ftrain  it  forth 
and  put  it  into  a  runlet  that  will  juft  hold  it  and  when 
it  worketh  not  over  Stop  it  clofe  and  3  or  4  weeks 
after  botde  it  putting  into  each  bottle  a  knob  of  Loaf 
Sugar  it  muft  not  be  dranke  in  a  month  twill  keep 
good  a  year. 

21.   For  the  Worms. 

TAKE  an  orange  cut  off  the  top  prefs  out  the  juice 
as  near  as  you  can  then  put  into  it  half  a  fpoon- 
full of  oyle  of  bays  of  the  juice  of  rue  and  wormwood 
of  each  half  a  fpoonfull  powder  of  4  or  5  lupins  dry'd 
with  as  much  treacle  as  will  fill  an  ordinary  thimble 
then  ftop  the  hole  with  the  piece  you  cut  off  tye  it  up 
clofe  and  faft  that  nothing  get  out  or  in,  then  Seeth 
it  well  and  when  it  is  cold  anoynt  the  navell,  noftrells, 
pulfes  and  temples  of  the  party  therewith  troubled 
with  the  Stuffs  it  pafeth  all  other  medecins  for  y® 
worms  what  ever. 

22.  For  a  Cold. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  horehound  water  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  coltsfoot  water  a  pound  of 
reafons  of  the  Sun  Stoned  pound  the  reafons  very 
well  then  mingle  thefe  together  then  fet  them  on  the 
fire  boyle  them  like  marmolet  then  take  it  off  and  put 
it  into  2  ounces  of  honey  and  one  fpoonfull  muftard 
then  fet  it  on  the  fire  &  let  it  fimer  a  while  then 


put  it  into  a  pot  and  take  as  much  as  y^  quantity  of  a 
walnut  firft  in  ye  morning  &  laft  at  night. 

23.  'To  make  Fruit  Bijkit. 

TAKE  the  pulp  of  any  fruit  to  4  ounces  of  pulp 
take  6  ounces  of  double  refined  Sugar  beaten 
and  learched  heat  your  pulp  fcalding  hot  and  Sugar 
fcalding  hot  into  2  feveral  difhes  when  they  are  fcald- 
ing hot  pour  your  Sugar  into  your  pulp  and  mix 
them  and  have  ready  whites  of  eggs  beat  into  a  froth 
and  to  fuch  a  proportion  of  pulp  and  fugar  put  in 
2  fpoonfulls  of  the  froth  a  little  muik  and  amber  if 
you  pleafe  then  beat  thefe  in  a  filver  or  earthen  bafon 
with  a  Spoon  for  an  hour  or  two  the  longer  the  better 
dry  them  in  paper  coffins  of  a  pretty  thicknefs;  dry 
them  either  in  a  ftove  or  coole  oven. 

24.  For  Mother  Fitts. 

TAKE  a  pottle  of  ale  and  boyle  in  it  2  handfulls 
of  red  Sage  and  Scumme  off  the  froth  and  when 
it  hath  boyled  one  hour  take  it  off  the  fire  and  Strain 
it  hard  out  that  the  ftrength  of  the  Sage  may  remain 
in  it  and  while  it  is  hot  put  into  it  half  a  pint  of 
dragon  water  and  as  much  treacle  Seane  as  will  make 
it  fweet  to  your  taft,  and  drink  of  it  warm  firft  in  the 
morning  and  laft  at  night  a  good  draught  or  at  any 
other  time  you  feel  a  fit  coming. 

25.   I'o  prefer ve  Green  Aples, 

TAKE  the  greeneft  fmall  aples  about  St  James  tide 
and  fet  on  a  Skillet  of  water  on  ye  fire  till  it  be 
ready  to  boyle  then  take  it  off  and  put  it  into  your 
aples  covering  them  clofe  till  they  will  peel  andagainft 
they  are  peeled  have  a  fkillet  of  hot  water  ready  to 
put  them  in  fo  cover  them  clofe  and  let  them  Stand 
on  a  few  embers  till  they  be  very  green  then  take 
them  out  and  take  to  the  weight  of  the  aples  the 

10 


weight  and  quarter  of  fugar  then  take  of  the  water 
they  were  green'd  in  as  much  as  you  think  will  boyle 
them  and  make  Sirrup  for  them  &  3  quarters  of  the 
Sugar  and  boyle  it  up  and  fcumme  it  then  put  in  the 
apples  and  let  them  boyle  till  they  be  half  done  then 
fet  them  by  till  the  next  day  then  take  them  out 
again  &  boyle  the  firrup  with  the  reft  of  the  Sugar 
then  put  them  in  again  and  boyle  it  foftly  till  they 
be  done  keep  them  covered  in  y®  firrup  &  waters. 

26.   Mrs.  Thorps  for  the  Mother  Fitts, 

TAKE  the  juice  of  Taniie  and  drink  it  with  beer 
it   hath  done  much  good  but  hurtfull   if  with 
child. 

27.  To  make  a  Calves  Head  Ha/he . 

AFTER  you  have  boyled  the  calves  head  take  out 
all  the  bones  from  it  when  it  is  cold  you  muft  cut 
the  meat  in  thin  flices  and  put  in  a  ftew  pan  with 
fome  ftrong  broth  and  white  wine  and  oyfter  liquor 
and  a  few  of  all  manner  of  fweet  herbs  4  or  5  Hieilots 
and  let  it  ftew  on  a  charcoale  fire  and  when  it  is 
almoft  enough  put  2  or  3  anchovies  minced  and  yolks 
of  3  or  4  eggs  well  beaten  with  a  little  white  wine 
and  a  piece  of  butter  and  ftiake  it  well  together  on  a 
quick  and  put  it  in  a  difti  on  ftppets  and  lay  over  it 

5  or  6  ftieeps  tongues  boyled  peel'd  and  flit  in  halfs 
and  as  many  veal  fweetbreads  &  a  few  thin  flices  of 
bacon  &  a  few  bay  leaves  in  yolks  of  eggs  fry  y® 
brown  in  butter  and  lay  them  on  your  haflie  &  bacon 

6  lay  leavs  on  the  brim  of  ye  Difli  and  Garnifli  it 
with  flices  of  Lemon  and  Send  it  up. 

28.  To  make  Forced  Meat. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  veal  or  Lamb  and  mince  it  fmall 
with  the  fame  quantity  of  beef  fewit  and  after 
fweet  herbs  then  put  to  it  a  little  grat'd  bread  and 
the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs  then  feafon  it  with  pepper 

II 


and  Salt  cloves  mace  and  nutmegs,  and  make  them 
in  balls  you  may  fry  boyle  or  butter  them. 

29.  For  a  Cold, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  reafons  of  the  Sun  Stoned 
and  I  ounce  of  liquorifh  and  i  ounce  of  Elicom- 
pane  made  into  fine  powder  beat  your  reafons  then 
pour  in  them  till  they  come  to  a  conferve  adding 
thereto  2  or  3  fpoonfulls  of  Red  rofe  water  if  a  thick 
ruehm  lefTen  your  quantity  of  Elicompane  &  take  of 
this  morning  noon  &  night.    Probatum. 

30.  'To  make  a  Frigacy  of  Chicken. 

BREAK  the  bones  of  the  chicken  and  cut  them  in 
quarters  and  feafon  them  with  cloves  mace  and 
nutmegs  and  fait  with  a  little  pepper  and  a  few  fweet 
herbs  and  put  it  in  a  ftew  pan  with  fome  broth  or 
gravie  a  little  white  wine  and  ftrong  ale  a  little  oyfter 
liquor  and  a  few  oyfters  cut  in  pieces  and  let  it  ftew 
on  a  quicke  fire  and  when  it  is  almoft  enough  put  in 
2  or  3  fhallots  minced  fmall  and  2  or  3  anchovife 
minced  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs  well  beaten  with  a 
little  white  wine  and  a  piece  of  butter  and  Shake  it 
well  together  and  put  it  in  a  difh  on  fippets. 

3 1 .  For  any  Cough  old  or  fre/h, 

TAKE  a  quartor  of  a  pound  of  blew  currans  an 
ounce  of  Anyfeeds  and  a  penny  worth  of  liquor- 
ifh makeing  it  and  your  feeds  firft  into  powder  then 
beat  your  currans  to  a  kind  of  a  conferve  ftrewing  in 
your  powder  as  you  beat  them  then  take  of  the  beft 
maiden  honey  you  can  gett  putting  thereof  as  much 
as  will  moiften  all  this  feting  it  on  the  fire  let  it 
fimer  a  while  but  not  to  long  left  it  be  clammy  fo 
take  from  the  fire  and  keep  it  for  your  ufe.  take  it 
as  oft  as  you  pleafe  upon  the  poynt  of  a  knife  the 
quantity  of  a  nutmeg. 

12 


32.  For  a  Cold, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  virgins  honey  fet  it  on  the  fire 
and  put  a  good  fpoonfull  of  liquorifh  anyfeeds 
elecampane  all  this  being  firft  beaten  in  fine  powders, 
let  it  fimer  a  little  then  take  it  from  the  fire  and  put 
it  up  in  a  pot  for  your  ufe.  eat  of  it  as  oft'  as  you 
pleafe  efpecially  going  to  bed  makeing  up  3  pills  as 
big  as  a  fmall  nut  rowling  them  up  in  powder  of 
liquorifh  or  Sugar  candie. 

22^*  For  a  Cough. 

TAKE  4  quarts  of  Spring  water  2  ounces  of  green 
liquorifh  fliced  2  ounces  of  powder  of  brimftone 
I  ounce  of  coliander  feed  bruifed  and  foak'd  in 
vinegar  a  little  then  pour  out  the  vinegar  from  it 
boyle  all  the  other  things  together  until  it  be  half 
boyled  away  then  put  in  the  coliander  feed  when  it  is 
off  y^  fire.  Soe  let  it  ftand  clofe  covered  and  drink  of 
it  7  or  8  fpoonfuUs  in  a  morning  fafting  faft  an  hour 
after  it  and  drink  it  till  you  have  taken  it  all. 

34.  For  a  Cough, 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  conferve  of  red  rofes  the 
quantity  of  an  nutmeg  of  dyafcordieum  and  one 
fpoonfull  of  the  Sirrup  of  poppies  3  drops  and  but 
3  drops  of  y®  fpirit  of  vitterill  then  mix  all  thefe  very 
well  together  and  take  of  this  in  the  morning  fafting 
and  faft  2  hours  after  it  and  laft  at  night  the  quan- 
tity of  a  nutmeg  at  a  time.    Probatum. 

2S'  For  the  Rickets, 

TAKE  2  quarts  of  Ifope  water,  take  of  liverwort 
maidenhair  Hiffop  Speedwell  Strawberry  leaves 
violet  leaves  of  each  a  handfull,  3  leaves  of  hartf- 
tongue  better  than  half  a  pound  of  raifons  of  the  Sun 
6  figs  boyle  all  this  till  it  come  to  a  quart  then  ftrain 
it  and  boyle  it  again  with  2  penny  worth  of  faffron 

13 


2  ounces  of  brown  Sugar  Candie  a  piece  of  Gold  a 
ftone  of  Amber  boyle  it  every  2  or  3  days  or  *twill 
be  foure  and  fo  keep  it  a  fortnight  give  3  fpoonfuUs 
at  a  time  morning  and  evening  &  when  the  child  will 
take  it  you  muft  give  it  twice  or  thrice  ere  the  child 
will  be  well  if  you  give  it  in  the  fall  or  winter  you 
muft  give  it  once  in  the  fpring  after. 

^6.  For  Children  that  have  Wormes. 

TAKE  fpermint  and  rue  a  like  quantity  to  make  a 
bundle  you  can  hold  in  the  hollow  of  your  hand 
and  boyle  it  in  new  milk  and  a  fpoonfull  of  wormfeed 
after  your  herbs  have  boyled  a  while  put  in  your 
feeds  and  y^  boyle  it  a  walme  or  2  then  give  the 
child  as  much  as  it  will  drink  firft  in  the  morning 
fafting  an  hour  after  it  if  coftive  Sweeten  it  with  honey 
give  this  full  &  changes  of  y®  moon. 

37.   A  Small  but  very  effe5luall  Cordial  Powder. 

TAKE  tormentil  fcabious  Bittony  pimpernel  of  each 
one  handfull  and  Shread  them  and  fteep  them  in 
a  pottle  of  fack  till  the  vertue  be  out  of  the  herbs 
then  ftrain  it  out  from  y®  herbs  haveing  a  pound  of 
the  beft  Bole  Armeniack  in  very  fine  powder  finely 
fearched  then  put  your  powder  into  a  deep  earthen 
bafon  and  wet  your  powder  with  your  ftrain'd  liquor 
every  day  till  it  be  throughly  moiftned  as  thick  as 
a  pulp  or  conferve  till  often  weting  hath  dranke  up 
all  your  liquor  Seting  it  in  the  Sun  every  day  oft 
ftiring  it  and  when  all  your  wine  is  dryed  up  make 
it  up  into  cakes  add  12  penny  worth  of  faffron  to 
it  before  you  wet  it  finely  powdered  dry  your  cakes 
in  the  Sun  &  then  keep  them  for  your  ufe.  Scrape 
and  give  to  a  man  as  much  as  will  lye  on  a  ftiilling 
to  a  woman  lefs  to  a  child  lefs.  In  cardus  or  dragon 
or  Small  cordial  water  it  will  caufe  fweting  tis  good 
againft  heats  and  colds  ficknefs  thence  or  pains  in  the 


limbs  or  heart  or  Stomake  or  for  a  woman  lying  in 
child  bed  takeing  cold  and  caufeing  ftoppages,  'twill 
drive  out  fmall  pox  or  meazels  or  any  heavinefs  at  the 
heart. 

38.   A  Stronger  Cordial  Powder, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  a  pint  of  fack  to 
thefe  following  herbs  fcabious  cardus  bittony  egre- 
mony  of  each  a  little  handfull  and  tormentil  roots  you 
may  add  any  cordial  flowers  rofemary  or  what  you 
pleafe  Shread  your  herbs  and  Steep  them  till  the 
vertue  of  the  herbs  be  foaked  into  the  wine  then  take 
half  a  pound  of  Bole-Armeniack  in  fine  powder  and 
2  ounces  and  a  half  and  a  dram  of  the  black  tips  of 
crabs  claws  in  powder  and  an  ounce  of  hearts  horn  in 
fine  powder  and  mingle  all  your  powders  and  put 
them  into  a  deep  earthen  Bafon  as  the  former  and 
moiften  them  every  day  with  your  liquor  feting  it  in 
the  Sun  and  when  you  put  in  the  laft  wine  liquor 
often  Stiring  it  every  day  at  laft  add  to  it  half  of 
metriedate  half  an  ounce  of  Diafcordium  half  an  ounce 
of  Venice  treacle  and  a  dram  of  fafFron  finely  powdered 
and  mingle  it  all  very  well  together  then  make  it  up 
into  litde  balls  throughly  drying  them  Keeping  them 
fo  for  your  ufe.  give  of  this  as  the  former  to  a  man 
as  much  as  will  lay  on  a  fhilling  to  a  woman  as  much 
as  will  lay  on  a  Sixpence  to  a  child  as  much  as  will  lay 
on  a  groat  J  'tis  good  for  any  weaknefs,  heavinefs  at 
heart,  or  to  caufe  fleep  weomen  in  child  bed  or  as  the 
former. 

39.  For  the  Balfame, 

TAKE  one  pound  of  the  beft  Venice  turpentine 
and  3  pints  of  Sallet  oyle  of  the  beft  bees  wax 
half  a  pound  one  ounce  of  red  fanders  in  very  fine 
powder  half  a  pint  of  red  rofe  water  and  one  pint  of 
malligoe  fack  firft  beat  your  turpentine  in  the  red  rofe 

IS 


water  till  it  be  white  next  beat  your  Sack  and  Sallet 
oyle  well  together  then  cut  your  wax  in  fmall  pieces 
then  take  a  clean  brafs  pan  or  kittle  let  your  kittle  be 
twice  as  big  as  to  hold  the  quantity  of  your  ingre- 
dients then  Set  it  on  a  clear  charcole  fire  then  firft  put 
in  your  wax  and  let  it  melt  then  take  it  off  and  let  it 
coole  a  little  then  put  in  your  rofe  water  and  turpen- 
tine then  your  fack  and  Sallet  oyle,  as  faft  as  you  can, 
then  let  thefe  boyle  foftly  together  a  while  always 
ftiring  it  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let  it  ftand  till 
it  be  cold  then  fcrape  off  the  filth  from  the  bottom  of 
the  cake,  then  clean  your  pan  and  melt  it  again  and 
let  it  fimmer  a  while  over  the  fire  again,  then  take  it 
from  the  fire  and  put  in  your  Sanders  by  degrees 
keeping  it  flill  fliring  untill  your  Sanders  be  all  in 
then  pour  it  into  a  well  Glazed  flrong  earthen  pot 
and  keep  it  fliring  till  it  be  quite  cold  then  cover  it 
up  very  clofe  with  ledd,  that  no  air  may  get  into  it, 
and  bury  it  in  a  garden  deep  in  the  ground  and  fo 
let  it  ftand  a  year  round  bean  blowen  time  is  the  beft 
to  make  it  in. 

The  Vertues  of  it  follow  eth: 

IT  is  good  to  prevent  the  plague  by  anointing  the 
lips  and  noftrells  therewith  tis  good  for  deafnefs 
being  fpert'd  into  the  ears  with  a  ferenge,  tis  good  to 
heal  any  wound,  inward  or  outward,  inwardly  by  the 
Serenge  outward  by  being  pour'd  warme  into  the 
wound  aplying  fine  lint  dip'd  into  the  fame  balfame 
being  melted  laid  upon  the  mouth  of  the  wound,  it 
commonly  cures  in  7  times  dreffmg  provided  that 
no  other  thing  either  before  or  while  thats  ufeing  be 
applied  thereto,  fo  that  if  brains,  heart  guts  or  liver 
be  not  toucht  it  will  fave  life,  its  good  for  fcaulds  or 
burns  either  by  fire  or  water,  and  healeth  without 
fkare.  helping  the  Siatica  or  any  other  each  proceeding 
from   A   cold   caufe,  in  what  joynt  foever,  it  is  a 

i6 


prefent  remedy  for  one  that  is  poifoned  by  takeing 
prefently  the  quantity  of  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  it  is 
good  for  any  fwelling  anointing  the  bunches  thereof 
with  it  warm  it  helpeth  the  ftinging  of  adders  fnakes 
and  all  fuch  venomous  creatures  being  dranke  in 
warm  milk  and  applied  to  the  place  ftung  it  is  good 
for  the  infected  of  the  meafells  or  plague,  takeing  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  4  mornings  together  and  fwet 
upon  it:  it  is  good  inward  or  outward  it  is  good  for 
fore  brefts,  being  applied  hot  if  broken,  otherwife 
not,  and  in  cafe  it  muft  be  broke  this  will  do  it  but  it 
muft  be  ufed  ten  days  together  although  it  feem 
worfe  yet  ufe  it:  provided  it  be  not  a  cancer  it  muft 
be  dreft  twice  a  day  cheaft  gently  in  with  a  warme 
hand  keeping  the  firft  cloth  to  it  but  if  it  be  broke 
and  run  much  put  a  little  piece  of  cloth  over  thofe 
holes  that  may  be  fhift'd  to  keep  them  from  ftikking 
but  not  els;  it  helpeth  the  wind  collicke  or  ftitch  in 
the  (ide  being  applied  warm  a  good  quantity  plaifter 
ways  for  4  mornings  together;  it  helpeth  the  piles 
anointing  them  therewith. 

40.  ^0  pot  Venijon  to  keep  all  the  year, 

TAKE  your  venifon  and  where  it  is  lean  flit  it,  and 
then  take  a  bunch  of  feathers  and  a  porranger 
with  clarret  wine  in  it  and  dip  your  feathers  in  it  and 
waifh  the  flits  then  put  in  fome  of  your  feafoning  and 
take  y®  fat  of  bacon  and  cut  it  as  thin  as  a  treble 
paper  and  put  it  in  the  flits  fo  doing  in  all  leane 
places  of  it  then  place  it  in  your  pot  and  bake  it  up 
very  well,  put  in  more  feafoning  if  you  pleafe  after 
placed  in  the  pot  &  when  you  take  it  out  of  the  oven 
prefs  out  all  the  liquor  as  dry  as  you  well  can  into  a 
fkillet  and  put  in  a  faggot  of  herbs  as  bays  rofemary 
marjerrom  to  your  liquor  in  the  fkillet  then  take  a 
flick  of  wood  and  meafure  y®  depth  of  it  and  make  a 
notch  in  the  ftick  that  you  may  know  when  tis  boyled 

17  c 


juft  half  away  then  take  out  the  herbs  and  pour  the 
liquor  on  your  venifon  in  your  pot  as  hot  as  you  can 
and  keep  it  in  and  when  tis  almoft  cold  then  melt  up 
your  butter,  to  cover  it  up,  but  let  not  your  butter 
be  to  hot  left  it  melt  your  jelly  on  your  venifon,  but 
let  your  butter  be  onely  warm  enough  to  pour  out  to 
cover  up  your  venifon  and  it  will  keep  thus  a  year 
round  and  not  taint  but  eat  moift  and  fweet  to  the 
laft.  but  if  your  butter  be  ftrong  after  long  keeping 
then  a  day  or  2  before  you  intend  to  fpend  it  Set  it  in 
an  oven  but  warm  enough  to  melt  off  your  ft  ale 
butter  and  pour  away  your  ftale  butter  from  it  and 
pour  on  frefh  butter  upon  it  and  you  fhall  not  know 
it  from  new  baked  venifon. 

41.  'fo  make  Cowjlip  Wine, 

TAKE  five  gallons  of  Spring  water  put  it  into  an 
earthen  pot  put  to  it  a  bufhell  of  pickt  cowflips 
flowers  and  to  them  20  pound  of  malligoe  raifons 
waiftied  and  fhred  ftir  them  altogether,  keep  it  clofe 
covered  with  a  fheet  and  blanket,  let  it  ftand  as  y^  fire 
may  come  to  it,  but  not  to  hot,  keep  it  9  days  often 
Airing  it  in  a  day  then  Strain  it  through  a  hair  five 
put  it  in  a  runlet  it  will  be  ready  to  drink  in  14  days. 

42.  Another  Cowjlip  Wine, 

TAKE  6  gallons  of  water  and  12  pound  of  powder 
Sugar  and  the  whites  of  1 2  eggs  well  beaten,  mix 
all  thefe  together  and  fet  it  over  the  fire,  ftiring  it 
firft  then  let  it  boyle  one  quarter  of  an  hour  then 
take  a  bulhell  of  cowflip  flowers  then  bruife  them  in 
a  ftone  morter  then  fcumme  the  liquor  and  put  it  to 
y®  cowflip;  cover  it  and  put  2  lemons  rine  and  all  cut 
very  thin,  put  as  much  of  ale  barme  as  will  make  it 
worke  then  tun  it  up  into  a  runlet  and  put  into  it  2 
quarts  of  rennifli  wine,  and  when  it  hath  done  worke- 

18 


ing  ftop  it  up  a  fortnight,  y°  bottle  it  with  a  knob  of 
Sugar  in  each  bottle. 

43.  'To  make  the  Eye  Water, 

TAKE  Eyebright  and  Sallendine  and  brown  fen- 
nell  of  each  two  hand  fulls  you  muft  chop  thefe 
herbs  take  a  pint  of  urin  made  by  a  vergine  and  a  pint 
of  red  rofe  water  and  ftill  it  in  a  cold  ftill  tis  good  to 
put  back  y®  rume  in  y^  eyes  or  to  take  away  any  fpot 
in  the  eye  you  muft  take  and  drop  half  a  dozen  drops 
into  the  eye  untill  it  run  out  at  y^  other  corner  this 
do  every  night  for  3  nights  let  it  reft  a  week  and  then 
if  need  require  you  may  drefs  it  again  it  will  keep  a 
year  very  well. 

44.  For  the  Rickets. 

MAKE  a  Sack  poflet  boyle  in  it  harts  horn  Ivery 
and  rofemary  and  give  it  the  child  now  and  then, 
alfo  take  a  quart  of  wort  put  into  it  a  handfull  of 
maiden  hair  one  handfull  of  liverwort  that  grows  on 
the  banks  half  a  pound  of  raifons  of  the  Sun  Stoned 
boyle  all  together  to  the  wafting  of  one  quarter  put 
into  it  a  penny  worth  of  red  Sanders,  Strain  it  and  put 
to  it  2  ounces  of  red  fugar  candie  boyle  it  a  little 
again  give  the  child  3  fpoonsfulls  of  it  at  night  and  3 
fpoonfulls  every  morning. 

45.  An  Ointment  for  the  Rickets. 

TAKE  lavender  rofemary  pennyroyal  featherfew 
and  camamile  of  each  a  like  quantity  cut  and 
bruife  them  and  then  boyle  them  in  a  fufficient  quan- 
tity of  butter  and  make  it  into  an  ointment,  mix  it  in 
a  little  neats  foot  oyle  wherewith  anoint  the  child's 
wrifts  and  ancles  every  morning  and  night  alfo  the 
right  ftde  under  ye  ftiort  ribs. 

19 


46.  To  Kill  a  Canker, 

TAKE  2  fpoonfulls  of  honey  and  one  fpoonfull  of 
treacle  and  half  as  much  rock  allum  as  the  quan- 
tity of  a  wallnut  beat  to  fine  powder  and  boyle  thefe 
together  over  a  cheafen  difh  of  coles  till  it  be  pretty 
thick  then  take  it  off  and  let  it  coole  then  anoint  the 
cankers  with  a  cloth  tyed  upon  a  ftick  the  oftner 
you  anoint  it  the  better  twill  be  you  muft  keep 
Airing  it  as  long  as  it  doth  boyle,  it  will  be  like  a 
iirrup  when  tis  cold. 

47.  For  any  Aguijh  or  He^iick  Feavour  in  Children 
when  they  grow  Weak  and  Forjake  their  Meat. 

TAKE  2  penny  worth  of  the  fneezing  powder  root 
and  pound  it  fmall  then  pound  3  ounces  of 
curants  unwaifh'd  only  pickt  clean  from  ftones,  then 
mingle  thefe  together  and  lay  it  to  the  handwrifts, 
then  cut  a  fmall  orange  in  halfs  &  put  one  half  to 
each  of  the  handwrifts  then  bind  it  on  4  days  and  if 
the  party  mend  not  in  that  time  take  it  off  and  put 
on  frefh  in  the  like  manner  and  keep  it  on  as  long  a 
time. 

48.  To  make  Orange  Cakes, 

TAKE  your  oranges  and  chip  them  then  quarter 
them  and  cut  out  the  meat  and  then  take  the 
rines  and  boyle  them  till  they  be  very  tender  then 
take  them  and  dry  them  in  a  napking  and  fhred  them 
very  fmall  then  ftrain  in  your  juice  through  a  piece  of 
tifany  then  take  the  weight  in  fugar  and  fet  your 
fugar  on  the  fire  and  put  in  as  much  water  as  will  wet 
it  to  a  pafte  then  you  muft  boyle  it  to  a  Sugar  again 
then  take  it  oiF  the  fire  and  put  in  your  meat  ftir  it 
in  then  put  by  all  your  fire  and  fet  it  upon  y®  hot 
hearth  to  dry  turning  it,  it  muft  not  boyle  then  put  it 
out  into  fweet  meat  glafles  till  it  be  pretty  ftiff  then 
put  it  upon  your  fheet  of  glafs  and  fet  it  in  a  ftove 

20 


the  ftove  muft  be  warm  you  muft  keep  a  moderate 
heat  in  it  and  fo  dry  them  up. 

49.  A  Ter fumed  Water. 

TAKE  a  gallon  of  Spring  water  a  handfull  of 
lavender  flowers  and  as  many  pinks  3  handfulls 
of  damafke  rofes  as  much  fweet  marjerum  the  peels  of 
6  oranges  12  cloves  bruife  all  thefe  and  put  to  them 
one  ounce  of  orrife  powder  4  ounces  of  benjamin 
powdered  put  all  in  a  rofe  ftille  and  draw  off  the  firft 
quart  by  its  felf  and  then  a  pint  you  may  draw  after 
another  water  from  the  lees  which  will  ferve  for 
prefent  ufe  but  not  keep  put  into  your  quart  bottle 
1 2  penny  worth  of  mufke  and  into  your  pint  bottle 
fix  pennyworth  tyed  up  in  a  piece  of  ferfnet  and  a 
little  ginger  fliced  very  thin  about  as  much  as  will 
lay  on  a  half  crown,  2  or  3  fpoonfuUs  will  fweeten  a 
bafon  of  water,  Stop  it  clofe. 

50.  'To  make  Mumme  according  to  the  Dire^ion 
recorded  in  the  'Town  Houje  of  Brumfwick, 

TAKE  a  veflel  containing  63  gallons  the  water 
muft  be  firft  boyled  to  y®  confumption  of  a  3^ 
part  at  leaft  let  it  then  be  brew'd  according  to  the 
ad:  with  7  bufhells  of  wheat  malt  one  bufhel  of  oat 
malt  and  one  bufhel  of  ground  beans  and  when  it  is 
tunn'd  let  not  the  hogfhead  be  to  much  filled  at  firft, 
when  it  begins  to  work  put  to  it  of  the  inner  rine  of 
firr  trees  3  pounds  of  y^  tops  of  firs  and  birtch  of 
each  one  pound  of  cardus  benedidus  dryed  3  good 
handfulls  of  the  flowers  of  rofafolis  2  good  handfulls, 
of  burnet,  betony  marjorum  avens  pennyroyall,  elder- 
flowers,  wild  time,  of  each  a  handfull  and  a  half,  feeds 
of  cardomum  bruifed  3  ounces,  bay  berries  bruif 'd 
one  ounce  put  the  feeds  in  y®  vefTel  when  the  liqour 
hath  wrought  a  while  with  the  herbs  alone  and  after 
they  are  aded  let  the  liquor  worke  over  the  vefTel  as 

21 


little  as  may  be,  fill  it  up  to  the  top,  and  when  'tis  to 
be  ftop^d  up,  put  into  the  veflel  ten  new  laid  eggs  ye 
ihells  not  broken  nor  crackt  then  ftop  it  very  care- 
fully and  at  2  years  end  drink  of  it,  if  it  be  trans- 
ported by  fea  tis  better.  Dr  Egidius  Hofman  adds 
water  creafes  brooke  lime  and  wild  pariley,  6  hand- 
fulls  of  horfraddifli  fcraped  in  every  hoglhead,  and  it 
was  obferved  that  the  mumme  in  w^^  y®  horfraddifh 
was  put  did  drink  with  more  quicknefs  then  that 
which  had  none. 

51.  ^ince  Wine. 

GRATE  your  quinces  and  ft  rain  them  in  a  corfe 
ftrainer  and  ftrain  your  juice  through  a  flanin  to 
every  gallon  of  juice  take  a  pound  of  fine  fugar  Stir 
it  untill  your  fugar  be  melt'd  then  put  it  into  a 
barrel  and  bottle  it  after  24  hours. 

52.  Captain  Greens  Powder  for  to  make  Water  for  Sore 
Eyes  and  Sores,  the  Powder  to  be  Calcinde, 

TAKE  4  ounces  of  vitriol  and  one  ounce  of  cam- 
phire  after  it  is  finely  beaten  with  an  almond 
ihake  it  lightly  into  a  black  earthen  pot  well  glazed, 
then  fhake  the  vitriol  after  it  is  finely  beaten  and 
fearch'd  and  fhake  it  in  lightly  upon  the  top  of  the 
camphire  and  fet  it  in  a  deep  chafing  difh  and  keep 
as  foft  a  fire  as  can  be  poflible  about  it  and  let  it 
ftand  there  till  it  be  firft  difTolved  to  a  water  and 
then  to  a  hard  ftone  you  muft  take  care  it  do  not 
fmoke  for  y*  will  fpoil  the  camphire  as  foon  as  the 
camphire  is  melt'd  that  the  vitriol  is  funke  down 
then  cover  it  with  a  paper  and  a  faucer  upon  that 
with  a  weight,  and  continue  to  keep  a  foft  fire  under 
it  till  it  be  turn'd  to  a  ftone  and  then  take  off  the  pot 
and  let  it  alone  till  the  next  day  and  then  you  muft 
break  the  pot  to  gett  it  out,  and  when  out  you 
muft  beat  and  fearch  it  very  fine,  and  when  it  is  as 

22 


fine  as  you  can  poflible  make  it  then  bake  4  ounces 
of  bole  armeniack  and  beat  again  with  it  till  they  be 
well  mingled  together,  then  weigh  it  into  half  ounces, 
and  every  half  ounce  will  make  a  quart  of  water,  an 
ale  quart  for  eyes  and  a  wine  quart  for  fores  the 
bole  Armeniack  muft  be  finely  beaten  and  fearch*d 
before  it  is  mingl'd  with  the  other. 

53.   'To  make  Sir r op  of  Lemons, 

PARE  your  lemons  that  no  white  be  feen  then 
flice  them  and  take  out  ye  feeds  and  take  the 
fame  weight  in  double  refined  fugar  well  beaten  and 
faflen  a  ftronge  thread  net  over  a  Silver  bafon  or 
earthen  bafon  then  lay  on  fome  of  your  Sliced  lemons 
cover  them  with  Sugar  then  more  lemons  fo  do  till 
all  be  on,  then  Set  it  in  a  cool  Seller  for  3  or  4  days 
then  pour  it  in  a  ftone  pot  let  it  ftand  warme  24 
hours  then  Scumme  it  and  put  it  up.  you  may  put 
more  Sugar  if  you  pleafe. 

54.  To  make  Sirrop  of  Clove-Gilly  flowers  or  any 
other  flowers  but  Violets, 

CLIP  the  whites  from  the  flowers  bruife  them  a 
little  in  a  flone  morter  then  take  y®  weight  of 
your  flowers  in  fine  beaten  fugar,  take  a  filver  or 
ftone  pot  put  a  laying  of  flowers  then  of  fugar  do  this 
till  all  be  in  then  clofe  y*  pot  and  in  boyling  water 
keep  it  ftill  feething  for  4  or  5  hours  then  flraine 
it  and  fet  it  by  the  fire  till  y®  fcumme  rife  take  that 
off  when  cold  then  bottle  it,  you  may  put  the  flowers 
in  fack  or  french  wine  and  let  them  lye  9  or  10  days 
clofe  ftop't  then  ftrain  it  and  bottle,  it  will  be  very 
pleafant  and  Cordial,  if  you  make  your  firrop  by  infu- 
fion  tis  beft  to  do  it  either  with  pinke,  balme,  or 
burrage  water  which  you  mufl  warme  a  litde  and 
pour  on  your  flowers  as  much  as  will  cover  them,  let 
it  ftand   12  hours  then   flrain  it  and  put    in  frefh 

23 


flowers  fo  do  4  or  5  times  then  to  every  pint  of  liquor 
take  a  pound  and  half  of  Sugar  finely  beaten,  put  it 
in  a  Stone  pot  fet  it  to  y®  fire  in  a  Skillet  of  water  till 
the  fugar  be  all  melt'd  then  fcumme  it  and  keep  it  for 
ufe. 

55.   ^0  make  f mall  Mead, 

TAKE  10  quarts  of  water  to  one  quart  of  honey 
firft  boyle  your  water  and  in  it  a  handfull  of  herbs 
made  into  a  bundle  fuch  as  you  beft  like,  as  rofemary 
balme,  Sweet  marjerum  and  the  like  Scumme  your 
water  very  well  and  when  boyled  half  an  hour  or 
more  take  out  the  herbs,  then  put  in  your  quart  of 
honey  to  your  ten  quarts  of  water  and  boyle  it  near  an 
hour  fcumming  it  all  the  while  it  boyls,  pour  it  then 
into  fome  coolers  and  when  as  cool  as  wort  put  in 
fome  ale  yeft,  if  but  10  quarts  of  liquor  then  2  fpoon- 
fulls  of  yeft  is  enough,  if  more  you  muft  proportion 
your  yeft  to  it,  let  it  ftand  in  the  cooler  till  it  be  white 
all  over  then  tun  it  up  into  a  good  veflel  that  hath 
had  fack  or  white  wine  in  it  and  when  it  hath  done 
workeing  Stop  it  very  clofe  and  let  it  ftand  in  the 
barrel  a  week  or  10  Days  then  draw  it  into  bottles 
keeping  it  clofe  Stop'd  and  in  a  months  time  you  may 
drink  of  it  keep  it  as  coole  as  you  can. 

^6,  A  brewed  Drink  for  Rickets, 

TAKE  tamarifke  and  the  inner  barke  of  a  young 
afti  not  20  years  old  and  agrimony  Speedwell 
Succory  coltsfoot  cliders  maiden  hair  ceterach  other- 
wife  called  Spleenwort  and  cowflips  of  jerufalem 
of  each  of  thefe  a  handfull  and  boyle  it  in  5  gallons 
of  middle  beer  an  hour  and  half  and  bruife  the 
bark  and  boyle  it  an  hour  before  the  other  things  be 
put  in  that  fo  it  may  have  an  hours  more  boyleing 
than  y^  herbs  than  ftrain  it  and  worke  it  as  other 
Drink  and  tun  it  as  foon  as  it  is  tuned  up  put  into  it 

24 


the  juice  of  4  handfulls  of  fcurvy  grafs  and  2  hand- 
fulls  of  water  crefTes,  then  take  a  handfuU  and  a  half 
of  liverwort  and  as  much  harts  tongue  very  clean 
pickt  and  bruifed  and  put  it  into  a  thin  linnen  bag 
and  a  little  ftone  or  bullet  to  finke  it,  &  hang  it  in  the 
drink  about  the  middle  of  the  vefTel  and  at  five  days 
old  let  the  child  drink  of  it  all  times  if  you  can  you 
muft  put  into  it  a  handfuU  of  ofmund  royal  roots  or 
ofmund  fearn  roots  called  fox  fern  roots  for  it  hath 
thefe  3  names  and  2  handfulls  of  Scurvy  grafs  roots. 

57.  T^he  Soveraign  Balfame, 

TAKE  Venice  turpentine  one  pound,  oyle  of  olives 
3  pints,  balfame  of  perrue  half  an  ounce,  oyle  of 
St  Johns  wort  one  ounce,  red  Sanders  one  ounce, 
yellow  wax  half  a  pound  Sack  6  fpoonfuUs,  cut  the 
wax  in  thin  flices  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  clean  Skil- 
let, when  it  is  thoroughly  melted  put  in  the  turpen- 
tine when  it  is  firft  wailhed  in  red  rofe  water  3  times 
Stir  them  very  well  till  they  boyle  then  take  it  oflF  the 
fire  and  let  it  cool  till  the  next  day  then  take  it  out 
of  the  Skillet  again  and  cut  it  into  thin  flices  to 
get  out  the  water  then  put  in  the  oyle  of  olives  the 
Sack  and  the  oyle  of  St  Johns  wort  with  the  red  San- 
ders and  balfame  and  ftir  them  till  they  incorporate, 
then  boyle  it  a  pace  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  ftir  it 
for  2  hours  to  thicken  it,  then  let  it  cool  puting  it  into 
fmall  pots,  it  will  keep  twenty  years. 

58.  'To  make  Bijkit, 

TAKE  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  fugar  one 
pound  of  eggs  one  lb  of  fiower,  beat  your  eggs 
and  as  the  froth  rifeth  fcumme  it  off  &  mix  it  w*^  the 
flower  and  Sugar  till  all  the  eggs  be  in  them  beat  it 
very  well  and  let  it  ftand  by  a  fire  half  an  hour  then 
butter  your  plats  and  fet  them  in  a  pretty  warme 
oven. 

25 


59-  ^0  make  Cakes  of  ^inces  red, 

TAKE  barberrys  and  infufe  them  and  when  they 
are  very  foft  take  them  and  ftamp  them  with  a 
fpoon  and  ftrain  them,  then  have  fome  quinces  ready 
fcaulded  and  pared  then  take  the  pulp  of  the  quinces 
and  mix  it  with  the  barberrys  then  take  the  weight  of 
it  in  Sugar  and  wet  it  with  water  then  fet  it  over  the 
fire  and  let  it  boyle  till  it  be  Sugar  again  then  put  in 
your  quinces  and  ftir  it  over  the  fire  till  the  fugar  be 
all  melt'd  but  not  let  it  boyle  then  drop  it  on  glafs 
plats. 

60.   T!o  make  clear  Cakes  of  ^inces. 

TAKE  quinces  and  pare  them  and  cut  them  into 
water  then  fet  them  over  the  fire  and  let  them 
boyle  very  faft  till  the  quinces  be  very  tender  then 
ftrain  the  jelly  and  take  the  weight  of  it  in  Sugar  and 
wet  it  in  water  fet  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boyle  to 
fugar  again  then  put  in  the  jelly  and  fet  it  over  the 
fire  and  ftir  it  till  all  the  fugar  be  melt'd  but  it  muft 
not  boyle  then  put  them  in  glaffes. 

61.  T(?  make  Orange  Cakes. 

SCRAPE  your  oranges  with  a  piece  of  glafs  till  all 
the  deep  colour  be  off,  y"  take  the  peel  ofFand  rub 
it  with  fait  and  lay  it  in  water  a  little  while  then  take 
it  out  and  dry  it  in  a  cloth  then  cut  all  the  white  from 
it  and  put  the  yellow  peel  into  water  to  wafti  the  fait 
well  from  it  then  boyle  it  tender  in  2  waters  when  it 
is  tender  you  muft  dry  it  very  well  in  a  cloth  and 
fhred  it  as  fmall  as  you  can,  then  take  the  juice  and 
meat  of  your  oranges  and  put  to  the  fhred  peel  but 
be  fure  that  there  be  no  feeds  nor  ftrings  in  it,  it  muft 
be  very  well  broken  with  a  fpoon  then  you  muft  take 
the  weight  of  your  oranges  in  double  refined  Sugar, 
melt  your  Sugar  with  fair  water  and  fet  it  on  the  fire 
and  let  it  boyle  and  fcumme  it  well  and  when  it  begins 

26 


to  candie  put  in  your  orange  and  let  it  ftand  on  the 
fire  ftiring  it  till  the  Sugar  be  melt'd  it  muft  not 
boyle,  then  put  it  in  cake  glafles  and  Set  it  in  a  warme 
ftove  and  when  you  find  it  candied  at  top  and  jelly'd 
turn  it  on  plates  and  fo  keep  it  turning  as  you  fee  it 
candie  till  its  dry. 

62.  'To  make  Apricock  Cakes, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fugar  and  boyle  it  almoft  to  a 
candie  height  then  put  a  pound  of  Apricocks 
fliced  very  thin  but  not  pared  into  it  ftir  them  about 
and  let  them  ftand  on  a  foft  fire  till  the  fugar  be  melt'd 
then  put  them  in  cake  glaffes  and  fet  them  in  a  ftove 
&  when  they  begin  to  dry  turn  them  out  on  glaffes. 

63.   To  make  Sirrop  of  Violets, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  pickt  violets  and  put  a  pint 
of  water  boyling  hot  to  them  cover  them  clofe 
and  let  it  ftand  one  day  then  ftrain  it  out  and  to  a  pint 
of  the  liquor  put  2  pound  and  quarter  of  Sugar  and 
fet  it  into  a  kettle  of  boyleing  water  and  let  the  Sugar 
difTolve  and  fcumme  it  well  when  its  fcaulding  hot  its 
enough  and  when  cold  bottle  it. 

64.  To  dry  Cherry s, 

STONE  6  pound  of  cherrys  and  put  one  pound  of 
Sugar  to  them  and  let  them  boyle  as  quick  as  you 
can  till  they  look  clear  then  let  them  lay  in  ye  firrop 
3  days  then  lay  them  on  fives  and  fet  them  in  an  oven 
after  bread  is  baked  2  or  3  times  turning  them. 

(i^.   To  make  Apricock  Marmelade  or  Cakes, 

TAKE  your  Apricocks,  pare,  ftone,  and  quarter 
them  then  take  the  weight  of  them  in  Sugar  and 
put  half  of  it  to  the  Apricocks  and  fet  them  on  the 
fire  and  keep  them  Stiring  left  they  burn  and  when 

27 


they  are  tender  take  them  ofF  and  mafh  them  fmall 
then  take  the  other  half  of  Sugar  and  melt  it  with 
water  and  let  it  boyle  a  little  then  take  it  off  and  put 
in  the  Apricocks  and  ftir  it  well  together  and  put  it 
in  your  glaffes  and  in  2  days  turn  out  your  cakes  on 
glafles  to  dry. 

66,  To  make  White  ^ince  Marmelade  very  good, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  quince  and  a  pound  and  quarter 
of  Sugar  wet  your  Sugar  pretty  thin  with  water 
then  put  to  it  half  a  pint  of  ftro nge  jelly  made  with 
the  cores  of  quinces,  pare  your  quinces  and  core  them 
&  quarter  them  and  put  them  into  your  fugar  and  jelly, 
fet  it  on  a  very  quick  fire  and  let  it  boyle  as  faft  as  pof- 
fible  it  can  and  Stir  it  all  the  time  you  muft  keep  out 
a  little  of  the  Sugar  to  Strew  over  it  when  its  almoft 
boyl'd,  and  when  its  enough  and  taken  off  y®  fire  Stir 
into  it  3  fpoonfuUs  of  y^  juice  of  lemons. 

67.  'To  make  a  very  good  Pojfet, 

TAKE  3  pints  of  cream  and  boyle  it  with  cinnamon 
and  mace  and  one  nutmeg  quartered  take  a  pint 
of  Sack  and  the  yolkes  of  1 8  eggs  beaten  put  your 
Sack  and  eggs  and  about  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
fugar  altogether  into  a  bafon  fet  it  on  a  chafen  difh  of 
coles  and  keep  it  Stiring  till  its  ready  to  boyle  then 
take  it  off  and  fet  your  Bafon  on  the  ground  and  take 
your  cream  boyling  hot  only  firft  take  out  the  whole 
ipice  then  pour  the  cream  into  the  bafon  holding  your 
fkillet  as  high  from  the  bafon  as  you  can  that  it  may 
froth  with  the  pouring  then  ftir  the  poffet  a  little  and 
fet  it  on  the  coles  again,  cloie  covered  about  half  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  then  ftrew  on  fome  Sugar  &  ferve 
it  in.  if  you  make  it  with  milk  you  may  put  in  half 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  takeing  out  the  treds  and  beat 
your  eggs  very  well. 

28 


68.   To  make  an  Orange  Pudding. 

TAKE  1 2  eggs  throw  away  half  the  whites  beat 
them  very  well  and  then  put  into  them  a  little  fait 
and  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  3  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  butter  melt'd  and  the  yellow  rine  of  3 
oranges  grated,  make  fome  good  puff  pafte  and  cover 
your  difh  and  pour  in  the  pudding  and  cover  it  over 
with  more  pafte  3  quarters  of  an  hour  will  bake  it,  then 
eat  it  with  orange.  To  make  your  pafte  to  cover  your 
pudding  take  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  one 
pound  of  flower  breake  your  butter  into  the  flower 
and  temper  it  with  warme  water  make  it  pretty  ftiff 
and  rowle  it  quick. 

69.  'To  pre/erve  Dam/ens, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  jelly  of  Damfens  and  let  it  boyle 
a  pretty  while  then  put  to  it  a  pound  of  Sugar 
and  let  it  boyle  together  a  little  while,  Scumme  it  very 
well  and  let  it  ftand  till  its  almoft  cold  then  put  into 
it  a  pound  of  damfens  and  let  them  juft  boyle  up  & 
let  them  ftand  till  y^  next  day  then  boyle  them  up 
again  then  put  them  into  glafles. 

70.  To  pre/erve  Rajberrys, 

TAKE  raft)errys  and  currants  and  put  fome  water 
to  them  and  fet  them  on  the  fire  and  let  them 
boyle  then  ft  rain  them  and  take  a  pint  of  that  jelly 
and  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  let  it  boyle  till  the  Scumme 
be  all  rifen  then  put  in  a  pound  of  fair  raft^errys  and 
let  them  boyle  as  faft  as  they  can,  till  they  are  clear, 
then  take  them  up  &  put  them  in  glaftlss  and  ftrain 
the  jelly  to  them. 

71.  To  dry  Apricocks, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fugar  and  wet  it  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  water  and  let  it  boyle  and  Scumme  it 
well  then  put  into  it  a  pound  of  apricocks  pared  and 

29 


ftoned  let  them  boyle  a  little  then  let  them  ftand  till 
the  next  day  y^  boyle  them  up  again  fo  do  4  or  5  times 
till  they  look  very  clear  then  put  them  a  runing  from 
the  Sirrop  and  lay  them  on  glafles  to  dry  and  fet  them 
in  a  Stove  turning  them  and  3  or  4  days  after  fift 
fine  Sugar  all  over  them  and  turn  them  every  day  till 
they  are  dry  you  may  make  chips  this  fame  way. 

72.  'To  make  Rajberry  Cakes, 

TAKE  your  rafberrys  and  infufe  them  in  a  ftone 
jug  and  when  they  are  tender  mafh  them  fmall 
and  take  the  weight  of  them  in  Sugar  put  the  Sugar 
into  a  preferveing  pan  put  as  much  fair  water  to  it  as 
will  melt  it  and  let  it  boyle  to  a  candie  hight  then  put 
in  your  rafberrys  take  it  off  ye  fire  and  Stir  it  well  and 
put  it  in  your  glafTes  and  in  2  days  turn  it  on  glafs 
plats. 

73.  To  make  Sirrop  of  Clove  Gilly  Flowers  or  Violets. 

TAKE  to  a  pound  of  flov/ers  2  pound  of  Sugar 
then  put  your  flowers  and  Sugar  into  a  Stone  jug 
a  laying  of  flowers  and  one  of  Sugar  till  they  are  all 
in  then  fet  it  in  water  over  the  fire  to  infufe  and  flop 
it  in  clofe  when  the  Sugar  is  difTolved  it  is  enough 
then  flrain  it  out  and  fet  it  over  the  fire  in  a  Skillet 
till  it  be  ready  to  boyle  then  fcumme  it  clean  and  when 
cold  bottle  it. 

74.  To  preferve  Rajberry s. 

TAKE  rafberrys  and  infufe  them  to  make  your 
jelly  then  take  your  fairefl  rafberrys  and  put  into 
the  jelly  and  take  the  weight  in  Sugar  and  as  much 
water  as  will  melt  it  Set  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boyle 
and  Scumme  it  well  then  put  in  the  jelly  and  rafberrys 
and  let  it  boyle  a  pace  till  they  are  enough  then  put 
them  in  your  glafTes  but  let  the  jelly  boyle  a  litde 
longer  then  put  it  to  them. 

30 


75-  '^0  dry  Peaches. 

PARE  and  fcauld  your  fruit  very  tender  then  take 
the  ftones  out  of  them  and  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to 
dry  then  take  the  weight  of  them  in  Sugar  and  boyle 
it  to  a  candie  hight  and  put  your  fruit  in  it  and  let  it 
ftand  till  the  Sugar  be  melt'd  and  the  next  morning 
warm  them  and  fo  do  in  the  afternoon  do  fo  3  days 
but  never  let  them  boyle  So  lay  them  on  glafles  to 
dry. 

76.  'To  make  Pajie  of  Peaches. 

SCAULD  them  very  tender  and  mafh  them  through 
a  Sive  and  put  as  much  of  the  juice  of  Spinage  to 
it  as  will  colour  it  green  then  dry  it  over  coles  and 
boyle  the  weight  of  it  in  Sugar  to  a  candie  hight  and 
put  in  your  pulp  and  ftir  it  well  together  but  not  let 
it  boyle  then  drop  it  on  glaffes  to  dry. 

77.  To  dry  Apri cocks  or  Chips, 

PARE  and  ftone  your  Apricocks  and  lay  them  in 
your  preferveing  pan  with  fome  Sugar  ftrow'd  over 
them  then  take  the  weight  of  them  in  Sugar  and  wet 
it  and  boyle  it  to  a  candie  hight  and  pour  it  to  the 
apricocks  and  let  them  boyle  till  they  look  clear  then 
take  them  oiF  and  let  them  ftand  till  the  next  day  then 
warm  then  and  fo  do  twice,  and  then  lay  them  on  a 
Sieve  that  the  Sirrop  may  run  from  them,  then  lay 
them  on  glafles  to  dry  in  a  Stove. 

78.  To  make  very  good  Red  ^ince  Marmalade. 

TAKE  4  pound  of  raw  quince  4  pounds  of  Sugar, 
3  pints  of  water  boyle  your  fugar  and  water  to- 
gether and  fcumme  it  well  then  put  in  the  quince  and 
let  it  boyle  foftly  till  its  of  a  pretty  good  colour,  then 
let  it  boyle  a  pace  uncovered  and  then  put  into  it  a 
pint  of  ftrong  jelly  made  with  the  cores  of  the  quinces 
and  fome  pipens  when  you  put  in  the  jelly  put  in  half 

31 


a  pound  more  of  Sugar  and  let  it  boyle  a  pace  till  it 
jellys  w^^  it  will  do  in  a  little  above  a  quarter  of  an 
hour. 


79.  How  to  preferve  Red  ^ince, 

PARE  your  quinces  and  core  them  then  take  the 
weight  of  them  in  Sugar  and  to  every  pound  of 
Sugar  you  muft  put  a  pint  of  water  and  fet  your  quince 
fugar  and  water  over  a  gentle  fire  and  let  it  boyle  very 
foftly  and  keep  it  clofe  covered,  and  w"  it  is  3  parts 
boyled  you  may  put  to  3  pound  of  quince  and  as 
much  Sugar  one  pound  of  Sugar  and  a  pint  of  ftrong 
jelly  then  make  it  boyle  a  pretty  pace  till  tis  almoft 
enough,  and  when  it  is  of  a  good  colour  tender  and 
clear  let  it  boyle  as  faft  as  you  can  a  little  while  un- 
covered then  put  it  into  glafles,  you  muft  make  your 
jelly  with  the  cores  and  pareings  of  your  quince  and 
fome  pippins  boyled  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them,  you  muft  keep  2  or  3  fpoonfuUs  of  your  Sugar 
to  Strew  on  your  quince  when  it  is  almoft  boyled  to 
clear  it. 

80.  To  preferve  Ripe  Plummes  in  Jelly  White, 

TAKE  your  plummes  and  weigh  them  take  their 
weight  in  Sugar  put  your  Sugar  into  your  pre- 
ferveing  pan  and  as  you  pare  your  plummes  rowl 
them  in  the  Sugar  and  when  they  are  all  pared  fet 
them  on  the  fire  and  let  them  boyle  ftiring  them  often 
and  when  you  find  them  tender  take  them  off  and  put 
them  into  glafTes  one  by  one ;  and  for  To  make  the 
jelly  you  muft  take  fome  plummes  and  pare  them  and 
put  them  into  a  tankard  and  Set  your  tankard  into  a 
Skillet  of  water  and  let  it  boyle  till  they  are  very  foft 
then  let  the  jelly  run  through  a  Strainer  and  take  the 
weight  of  it  in  Sugar  put  your  Sugar  into  a  preferve- 
ing  pan,  and  put  as  much  fair  water  to  it  as  will  but 

32 


melt  it  then  fet  it  on  the  fire  and  when  it  boyles  up 
put  in  your  jelly  and  juft  let  it  boyle  up  then  take  it 
off  and  fill  up  your  glaffes  if  you  will  have  them  red 
you  muft  pare  them.  The  pulp  of  the  plummes  you 
make  your  jelly  with  will  make  marmelade  takeing 
the  weight  of  it  in  Sugar  put  your  Sugar  into  your 
preferveing  pan  and  melt  it  with  fair  water  and  fet  it 
on  the  fire  and  when  it  boyles  put  in  the  pulp  and 
let  it  boyle  a  litde  then  put  it  in  your  glaffes. 

8 1 .  ^0  make  Clear  Cakes  of  either  White  PlummeSy 
Red  Plummes^  Damfens^  Grapes^  Rajherrys^  Cur- 
rants^ or  Cherrys. 

TAKE  your  fruit  and  pare  them  and  put  them 
into  a  tankard  and  Set  in  a  Skillet  of  boyling 
water  and  let  it  boyle  till  they  are  very  foft  then  let 
your  jelly  run  from  them  through  a  ftrainer  then  take 
the  weight  of  the  jelly  in  Sugar  and  put  it  into  a  pre- 
ferveing pan  and  put  as  much  fair  water  to  it  as  will 
juft  melt  it  then  fet  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boyle  to 
a  candie  hight  which  it  will  foon  do  then  put  in  your 
jelly,  and  Stir  it,  not  leting  it  boyle  but  take  it  off 
and  put  it  into  your  cake  glaffes  and  fet  them  in  a 
ftove  and  in  2  or  3  days  turn  them  out  of  your  glaffes 
on  pieces  of  glafs  and  keep  them  turning  once  a  day 
till  they  are  dry  enough  to  put  on  paper. 

8  2.  "To  make  White  Marmelade  of  ^inces  or 
Pippins. 

TAKE  your  quinces  and  pare  them  and  cut  them 
in  pieces  and  take  the  weight  of  it  in  Sugar  and 
put  your  Sugar  and  quinces  into  your  pan  and  fet  it 
on  the  fire  keeping  it  ftiring  and  breaking  the  quinces 
with  a  ladle  all  y^  while  it  boyles  and  let  it  boyle  as 
faft  as  you  can  &  when  the  quinces  is  very  fort  take 
it  off  and  put  it  in  glaffes. 


83.   'To  make  Almond  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  cream  and  boyle  it  with  nutmeg 
and  mace  and  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
almonds  blanch  them  in  cold  water  and  beat  them 
very  well  in  a  ftone  morter  with  Sack  and  rofe  water 
and  let  it  boyle  till  it  is  as  thick  as  you  will  have  it 
then  Strain  it  through  a  corfe  Strainer  being  well 
boyled  then  fweeten  it  with  Sugar  to  your  tafte  and 
put  in  half  a  fpoonfull  of  rofe  water  and  as  much 
Sack. 

84.  T!o  make  an  Almond  Pudding, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  cream  and  2  manfhets  grated  halt 
a  pound  of  Almonds  blanch'd  and  beaten  very 
finely  with  rofe  water  then  take  a  little  nutmeg  and 
mace  ihred  fmall  take  the  yolkes  of  6  eggs  and  fome 
Sugar  tie  it  up  in  thick  cloth  and  boyle  it  and  Serve 
it  with  butter  and  Sack. 

85.  To  make  a  ^akeing  Pudding. 

TAKE  5  fpoonfulls  of  flour  and  9  eggs  leave  out 
3  of  the  whites  a  pint  and  half  of  cream  not  to 
good,  a  fpoonfull  of  Sugar  and  nutmeg  take  orange 
lemon  citron  mince  it  fmall  and  put  to  it  tie  it  up  in 
a  thick  cloth  and  when  tis  boyled  put  Sack  and  Sugar 
and  butter. 

86.  To  make  a  Carraway  Cake. 

TAKE  4  pound  of  flour  10  eggs  but  5  whites  a 
pint  of  ale  yeft  and  half  a  pint  of  cream  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  Sack  or  rofe  water  half  a  pound  of  carra- 
way cumfets  half  a  pound  of  fugar  half  a  pound  of 
butter  fome  faflTron  half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg  of  mace 
and  cinnamon  let  your  flour  be  dry'd  very  well  then 
mix  it  with  Sugar  carrawayes  and  Spice  beat  your  eggs 
very  well  &  yeft  and  Sack  together  let  your  cream 

34 


boyle  and  melt  your  butter  in  it  then  temper  your 
cake  let  it  ftand  half  an  hour  to  rife  bake  it  in  a  paper 
coffin. 

87.   'To  make  a  very  good  Cake, 

TAKE  6  pound  of  flower  3  pound  of  currants  2 
pound  of  reafon  of  the  Sun  Stoned  one  pound  of 
almonds  blancht  and  well  beaten  20  eggs  half  the 
whites  one  quart  of  cream  2  pound  of  butter  \  a  pound 
of  loaf  Sugar  2  ounces  of  mace  nutmegs  and  cinnamon 
half  a  pint  of  Sack  beat  your  almonds  with  rofe  water 
and  a  quart  of  ale  yeft  let  your  flour  be  dry'd  and 
currants  then  put  them  together  with  the  fpices  and 
reafons  minced  Small  beat  your  Sack  and  eggs  and 
yefl:  all  together  let  your  cream  boyle  then  melt  your 
butter  in  it  and  fl:ir  it  very  well  together  then  put  your 
flour  in  the  middle  of  the  Ewer  and  put  the  yeft  on 
one  flde  and  the  cream  on  the  other  Side  and  mix  all 
together  very  well  then  put  in  your  almonds  and  mix 
them  very  well  together  and  fet  it  by  the  fire  and 
when  the  oven  is  hot  put  it  into  a  paper  coffin  and 
bake  it. 

88.  To  make  Marmelade  of  Oranges, 

TAKE  of  the  faireft  oranges  and  pare  them  very 
thin  and  put  them  into  fair  water  and  fliift  them 
3  times  a  day  for  3  days  together  then  boyle  them  in 
cloths  till  they  be  very  foft  then  take  your  oranges 
and  cut  them  fmall  and  take  out  the  core  and  take  to 
a  pound  of  orange  one  pound  of  Sugar  take  a  pint  of 
the  Faireft  pippin  water  let  it  be  very  clear  one  pound 
of  Sugar  more  then  mix  your  pippin  water  to  y® 
2  pound  of  Sugar  then  boyle  it  and  fcumme  it  and 
put  in  your  cut  orange  to  it  and  boyle  it  till  it  jellies, 
and  fqueeze  a  little  lemon  into  it  and  put  it  into 
glafl'es. 


89.  'To  preferve  Pippins. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  Sugar  to  a  pound  of  apples  and 
boyle  your  Sugar  to  a  Sirrop  then  pare  your  aples 
and  cut  them  in  halfs  and  cut  out  the  cores  and  bruife 
them  and  put  them  into  the  Sirrop  as  you  do  them  then 
put  them  on  a  very  quick  fire  and  when  you  fee  them 
begin  to  clear  put  into  it  a  pint  &  half  of  apple  jelly 
and  a  little  renifh  wine  and  the  juice  of  2  or  3  oranges 
and  have  fome  orange  peel  boyled  very  tender  and 
cut  into  long  fhreds  and  when  you  think  they  are 
enough  put  them  into  your  glafles  with  fome  orange 
peel  under  and  at  top  and  Sirrop. 

90.  To  make  Small  Meade, 

TAKE  30  Ale  pints  of  fair  water  one  pound  of 
reafons  of  the  Sun  Stoned  4  pints  of  virgin  honey 
put  your  honey  into  the  water  and  boyle  it  till  the  3^ 
part  be  boyled  away  as  foon  as  the  Scumme  rifeth 
take  it  oifF  and  put  in  your  raifons  then  let  it  ftand  in 
veflels  till  it  be  cold  then  worke  it  up  with  yeft  and 
when  it  hath  wrought  in  the  vefTel  Stir  up  the  yeft 
and  that  together  and  fo  tun  it  up  if  you  pleafe  2  or 
3  days  after  it  is  tunned  draw  it  out  and  put  it  into 
bottles  and  after  6  days  twill  be  fit  to  drink. 

91.  To  make  Sugar  Cakes. 

TAKE  2  pound  of  flour  and  one  of  butter  half  a 
pound  of  Sugar  one  ounce  of  carraway  Seeds  a 
little  mace  Shred  a  little  Sack  and  a  little  rofe  water 
worke  thefe  into  a  pafte  and  make  your  cakes  thin 
and  cut  them  round  with  glafs. 

92.  To  make  Little  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  double  refined 
Sugar  beat  it  very  fine  then  about  the  quantity  of 
rafberrys,  ftrained  and  then  fhake  in  the  Sugar  by 

36 


degrees  keeping  it  beating  a  hour  together  and  have 
the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  froth  then  put  in  4  or 
5  drops  as  you  beat  the  Sugar  and  rafberrys  drop 
them  on  papers  then  put  them  into  an  oven  that  is  a 
litde  warm  then  put  them  in  your  ftove  you  may  do 
Goofberrys  thus  but  have  a  care  to  beat  them  one 
way  or  they  will  be  heavy. 

93.  'To  make  Cherry  Water, 

TAKE  4  pound  of  cherry s  5  pints  of  claret  wine, 
half  a  handfull  of  the  tops  of  rofemary  2  ounces 
of  cinnamon  bruifed  2  handfulls  of  balme  2  nutmegs 
fliced  Stone  the  cherrys  let  them  Stand  clofe  cover'd 
in  an  earthen  pot  all  night  then  Still  it  in  an  ordinary 
Still  and  mix  it  with  Sirrop  of  Gilly  flowers  4  ounces 
of  white  Sugar  candie  put  into  the  receiver  and  let  it 
drop  upon  it  and  fo  keep  it  for  your  ufe  keep  a  quart 
bottle  of  the  Strongeft  by  itfelfe  and  draw  of  the  refl: 
as  long  as  you  like  the  tafte  it  caufeth  Sleep  tis  moft 
excellent  for  y®  paflion  of  the  heart,  tis  a  good  re- 
ftorative  water  twill  eafe  one  out  of  a  Sound. 

94.  Almond  Puddings. 

A  POUND  of  Almonds  blancht  and  beat  very  fine 
with  rofe  water  to  fuch  a  proportion  take  4  penny 
white  loafs  grated  very  fine  put  it  in  a  bowle  and  with 
it  2  pound  of  beef  Suet  Shred  very  Small  and  mingle 
it  with  the  bread  pour  upon  it  one  quart  of  boyleing 
cream  Stir  it  together  and  cover  it  clofe  down  and  let 
it  ftand  an  hour  then  put  in  your  almonds  and  mingle 
them  together  and  feafon  them  together  with  Salt  and 
nutmeg  cinnamon  &  Sugar  to  your  tafle  8  eggs 
leaveing  out  ye  whites  mingle  them  all  together  you 
may  add  a  little  Sack  if  you  pleafe,  if  you  find  your 
pudding  to  thick  add  cream  if  to  thin  add  grated 
bread  if  not  fat  enough  add  more  Sewit. 

37 


95-  ^ince  Cream, 

CODDLE  your  quinces  fcrape  them  and  when 
they  be  cold  fweeten  them    Sweeten  your  cream 
and  boyle  it  and  when  cold  put  them  together. 

96.  My  Lady  Ingrams  Cream. 

TAKE  2  gallons  of  new  milk  3  pints  of  cream  half 
a  pound  of  Almonds  beaten  very  fine  fo  put  it  in 
and  ftir  it  altogether  and  Set  it  in  a  broad  pan  over  the 
fire  when  tis  ready  to  boyle  take  it  off  and  let  it  ftand 
a  day  and  a  night  you  muft  fweeten  it  with  Sugar  at 
firft  then  take  the  glafs  you  mean  to  put  it  into  you 
muft  cut  your  cream  as  broad  &  put  the  reft  in  the 
bottom. 

97.  To  make  Pyramid  Cream, 

FIRST  wafti  one  ounce  of  Icfinglafs  and  lay  it  2 
days  in  rofewater  then  beat  a  pound  of  Almonds 
with  a  fpoonfull  of  rofewater  Strain  them  with  a 
quart  of  cream  or  new  milk  then  put  in  your  Icfin- 
glafs and  fweeten  with  Sugar  to  your  tafte  then  boyle 
it  on  the  fire  till  a  drop  will  ftand  then  put  it  in  a 
difti  and  ftir  it  till  tis  cold  then  put  it  in  glafies  and 
put  it  in  a  difii  you  Serve  it  up  in  and  put  cream  to 
be  4  inches  above  the  cream. 

98.  To  make  Gimboles, 

TAKE  6  eggs  and  put  away  3  of  the  whites  beat 
them  an  hour  together  with  rofewater  put  to  this 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream  half  a  pound  of  Sugar 
and  as  much  flower  as  will  make  it  up  in  a  pafte  as 
you  rowle  it  into  weaks  then  put  in  fome  corriander 
and  carraway  Seeds  then  when  you  have  made  them 
into  what  faiftion  you  think  fit  butter  your  plats  & 
fo  bake  them,  let  not  your  oven  be  to  hot  to  colour 
them. 

38 


99-  Bijkit  Approved. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fine  Sugar  beaten  and  fearched 
one  pound  of  flower  4  grains  of  Amber  greafe 
3  grains  of  mufk  grind  them  with  Sugar  mingle  them 
with  the  flour  and  Sugar  altogether  you  muft  dry 
your  flour  then  take  8  new  laid  eggs  whites  and  yolks 
beat  them  in  a  ftone  morter  with  a  wooden  peffle  for 
the  fpace  of  an  hour  put  your  Sugar  and  flour  in  by 
little  and  little  till  it  be  all  in  then  beat  it  for  y®  fpace 
of  2  hours  together  you  mufl:  not  let  it  fl:and  fl:ill  at 
no  time  for  the  good  beating  makes  it  white  and 
light  then  put  in  2  fpoonfulls  of  anyfeeds  and  Stir 
them  together  then  let  your  plat  be  buttered  very 
thin  then  warm  your  plats  and  difli  it  as  fafl:  as  you 
can  then  have  your  oven  ready  not  very  hot  and  put 
them  in  prefently  Sifting  Sugar  over  them,  when 
baked  enough  then  take  them  out  &  pare  y®  bottoms 
of  them  and  lay  them  upon  paper  to  dry  &  harden 
you  mufl:  take  them  oflF  y®  plats  while  warme. 

100.  Sugar  Cakes. 

TAKE  2  pound  of  flour  dryed  &  fearched  one 
pound  of  loaf  Sugar  dryed  and  Searched  one 
pound  of  butter,  6  eggs  leaveing  out  the  whites  then 
beat  them  very  well  &  take  a  little  cream  &  make  it 
into  pafl;e  then  rowle  it  &  flat  it  as  you  will  have  it 
&  then  cut  it  round  w*^  a  glafs  and  bake  then  in  a 
cool  oven  you  mufl:  wafli  y^  butter  with  a  little  rofe 
water  &  fee  you  dry  it  out. 

loi.  To  make  Jelly. 

TAKE  4  calves  feet  and  when  they  be  blanched 
put  them  into  a  pot  with  a  gallon  of  fair  water 
and  let  them  boyle  till  they  be  confumed  to  half 
Scumming  it  as  it  rifeth  very  well  then  fl:rain  it 
through  a  coulender  into  a  diih  and  let  it  Stand  till 
the  next  day  and  through  cold  Slice  it  through  in 

39 


great  pieces  taking  the  top  and  bottom  as  thin  as  you 
can  and  make  of  the  reft  putting  it  into  a  clean  Skillet 
then  take  a  pint  of  Sack  or  white  wine  and  put  to  it 
and  the  whites  of  6  eggs  very  well  beaten  to  a  froth 
one  nutmeg  2  races  of  ginger  both  fliced  one  Sprig 
of  rofemary  and  a  little  Salt  and  half  a  pound  of 
Sugar  and  you  muft  Sharpen  it  with  a  little  lemon 
and  a  little  vergis  if  it  be  fack  then  fet  all  thefe  in 
Skillet  on  a  gentle  fire  Stiring  it  till  tis  ready  to  boyle 
&  let  it  boyle  a  quarter  of  an  hour  without  Stiring 
and  Strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag  of  cotton  and  put  a 
lemon  peel  into  it  &  let  it  run  through  of  itfelf  and 
keep  it  for  your  ufe. 

1 02.  'To  preferve  Green  Walnuts. 

TAKE  green  walnuts  of  bigeft  Size  you  can  get 
and  of  the  bigeft  kind  about  a  week  after  mid- 
fummer  put  them  in  a  bag  and  boyle  them  in  a  great 
kittle  of  water  till  they  be  tender  then  peel  off  ye 
outward  fkin  that  looks  black  and  put  into  every 
fecond  a  clove  put  them  into  fomewhat  more  then 
the  weight  of  powder  Sugar  and  cover  them  in  the 
dry  Sugar  and  let  them  lay  a  day  or  2  then  boyle 
them  up  2  or  walms  on  a  gentle  fire,    probatum. 

103.   To  make  Cheejecakes, 

SET  your  beft  milk  which  is  Strokeing  and  put  in 
as  much  runnet  as  you  think  fit  and  when  tis 
come  brake  it  not  but  in  a  cloth  and  put  it  in  a  vate 
and  fet  a  light  prefs  upon  it  and  let  it  Stand  cut  your 
curd  in  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  morter  and  grind  and 
beat  your  curd  put  in  the  quantity  of  half  a  pound  of 
butter  to  as  much  curd  as  a  little  thin  cheefe  vate  will 
hold  when  tis  well  beaten  together  put  in  a  pound 
and  half  of  currants  and  Some  cloves  and  mace  and 
Some  rofe water  with  the  eggs  you  muft  take  6  yolks 
and  2  whites  and  beat  them  well  together  with  rofe- 

40 


water  and  put  in  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fugar  when  you  have  prepared  the  coffins 
fill  them  not  to  full  and  fee  you  then  put  them  in  and 
when  they  are  rifen  draw  them  out  and  then  mix 
them  together  fome  butter  melted  and  fome  Sugar 
rofe water,  take  a  feather  and  wafh  them  with  it.  your 
pafte  you  muft  make  as  you  do  for  tarts. 

104.  To  Preferve  Green  Apr i cocks, 

TAKE  apricocks  when  the  ftones  are  firm  in  them 
and  to  every  pound  of  apricocks  a  pound  of  fugar 
pare  them  very  thin  flit  them  up  the  fceame  as  you 
pare  them  put  them  into  cold  water  elfe  they  will 
lofe  their  colour,  being  pared  put  them  into  a  Skillet 
of  cold  water  and  fet  them  on  a  fire  clofe  cover'd  till 
your  water  be  fcaulding  hot  and  let  them  ftand  till 
they  are  pretty  cold  then  Set  them  on  the  fire  again 
till  the  water  be  Scaulding  hot  then  take  them  off  till 
the  water  be  Somewhat  cold  let  the  water  be  never 
more  then  fcaulding  hot  and  a  little  colder  after  by 
degrees  till  they  be  as  green  and  as  tender  as  you 
will  have  them  then  take  them  out  of  the  water  and 
lay  them  in  a  difii  and  ftrew  fome  of  your  weigh'd 
fugar  on  them  elfe  they  will  prefently  loofe  their 
colour  then  put  your  Sugar  into  your  preferveing 
pan  and  to  every  pound  of  Sugar  take  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  the  fame  water  as  the  apricocks  was  boyled  in 
then  melt  your  fugar  and  put  in  your  apricocks  and 
rifter  a  little  boyling  they  will  ftone  then  put  them 
into  the  Sirrop  again  and  being  boyled  a  while  take 
them  out  y^  Sirrop  and  lay  them  in  a  broad  filver 
difh  and  boyle  the  Sirrop  to  what  hight  you  pleafe  if 
you  boyle  it  to  little  it  will  not  keep  you  may  if  you 
pleafe  put  to  thefe  a  grain  or  2  of  muik  and  Amber- 
greafe  pour  the  Sirrop  while  it  is  hot  on  the  apricocks 
fo  let  them  ftand  till  y®  next  day  then  put  them  up 
into  glaifes. 

41 


105.  ^0  Preferve  Goojberrys. 

GATHER  the  faireft  round  goofberrys  when  they 
are  at  their  full  bignefs  &  before  they  begin  to 
be  foft  when  they  are  new  gather'd  cut  off  the  black 
tops  and  ftone  them  ftrewing  fine  Sugar  upon  them 
as  you  Stone  them  then  to  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
ftoned  goofberrys  take  a  pound  of  double  refined 
Sugar  finely  beaten  and  lay  half  of  it  in  the  bottom 
of  your  pan  then  lay  in  your  goofberrys  one  by  one 
all  over  upon  the  Sugar,  then  put  in  y^  reft  of  your 
Sugar  but  keep  a  Spoonfull  or  more  of  it  to  Strew 
upon  it  in  the  boyleing  then  Stamp  a  few  goofberrys 
the  black  being  taken  off  and  Strain  the  juice  out  of 
them  and  of  that  juice  put  in  12  Spoonmlls  to  this 
proportion  drop  it  out  of  the  Spoon  all  over  the 
Sugar  and  goofberrys  then  fet  them  on  a  very  quick 
fire  to  boyle  as  fafl  as  you  can  to  boyle  up  to  the  top 
of  the  pan  then  take  them  off  and  fhake  the  pan  and 
ftrew  on  fome  of  the  Sugar  and  prefently  fet  it  on 
the  fire  again  to  boyle  up  then  take  it  off  and  fhake 
it  and  fet  it  on  again  to  boyle  fafl  and  when  you  fee 
the  goofberrys  look  very  clear  take  them  off  and 
when  they  are  a  little  cold  put  them  up  in  glafTes 
take  them  up  with  Sirrop  for  if  you  take  them  with- 
out the  Sirrop  they  will  not  be  plump  then  put  them 
up  but  let  them  not  be  covered  till  they  are  cold  you 
mufl  try  to  fee  whether  the  Sirrop  will  jelly  before 
you  put  them  up. 

106.   To  Preferve  Sweet  Lemons  or  Oranges, 

TAKE  your  oranges  and  pare  them  very  thin  and 
lay  them  all  night  in  cold  water  then  boyle  them 
half  an  hour  and  put  them  into  cold  water  y^  make 
holes  on  the  top  where  the  flalk  growes  and  take  out 
the  feeds  as  clean  as  you  can  and  let  them  lay  in  that 
water  till  the  next  day  then  boyle  them  again  almofl 
half  an  hour  then  take  them  up  and  Set  them  upon  a 

42 


double  cloth  and  cover  them  with  a  cloth  till  they  be 
almoft  cold  then  weigh  them  and  take  to  every  pound 
of  orange  a  pound  and  half  of  Sugar  and  to  every 
pound  of  Sugar  a  wine  pint  and  half  of  water  boyle 
your  firrop  and  drain  it  and  when  it  is  almoft  cold 
put  in  your  oranges  and  boyle  them  with  a  foft  fire 
till  they  look  clear  and  the  Sirrop  of  a  good  hight 
about  a  fortnight  or  3  weeks  after  take  your  Sirrop 
from  your  oranges  and  boyle  it  again  and  when  it  is 
cold  put  your  oranges  in  it  and  keep  it  in  glaffes.  y® 
great  red  oranges  will  do  beft  this  way. 

107.  To  make  Black  Puddings. 

TO  make  3  dozen  of  puddings  take  a  quarter  of  a 
peck  of  grots  and  2  quarts  of  milk  boyle  it  and 
then  put  in  your  grots  and  ftire  them  clofe  and  let 
them  ftand  all  night  and  in  the  morning  take  2  hand- 
fulls  of  fweet  herbs  Shred  fmall,  and  one  pint  of  blood 
3  pounds  of  Suit  Shred  Small  put  all  thefe  things  to 
your  grots  and  feafon  it  with  a  little  cloves  &  mace 
one  nutmeg  pepper  &  one  ounce  of  annyfeeds  and 
Salt  6  eggs  whites  and  all. 

108.  "To  make  White  Puddings. 

TO  make  3  dozen  take  a  quart  of  Stired  grotts 
one  penny  loafe  grated  6  eggs  yolkes  and  whites 
beat  with  rofe  water  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  a 
pound  of  currants,  half  a  pint  of  cream  mix  all  thefe 
things  with  your  grots  and  feafon  it  with  cinnamon. 

109.  To  make  a  Pojfet. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  cream  and  half  a  nutmeg  quarter 
it  then  take  a  ftick  of  cinnamon  and  a  quarter  ot 
a  pound  of  Sugar  and  then  fet  it  on  the  fire  and 
keeping  it  ftiring  always  one  way  and  let  it  boyle 
together  a  quarter  of  an  hour  then  take  6  eggs  puting 
away  the  whit's  then  beat  them  very  well  and  put 

43 


them  into  the  cream  ftill  conftantly  ftiring  it  and  To 
foon  as  it  boyles  take  it  ofF  the  fire  and  let  it  coole  a 
little  it  muft  cool  but  a  little  then  take  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  Sack  made  very  hot  in  a  bafon  then  take 
your  cream  and  ftand  upon  a  ftoole  as  high  as  you 
can  &  pour  your  cream  into  your  bafon  very  foftly 
as  high  as  you  can  pour  it  right  then  fet  it  to  the  fire 
till  it  be  ready  to  be  eaten  this  will  be  all  curd  &  no 
drink. 

no.  Tb  make  a  Sullihub, 

TO  every  quart  of  cream  take  about  3  quarters  of 
a  pint  of  Sack  boyle  the  cream  and  make  the 
Sack  almoft  as  fweet  as  a  Sirrop  then  fet  it  on  the  fire 
and  make  it  reafonable  hot  and  when  the  cream  is  a 
little  cooled  with  a  wooden  Spring  draw  up  the  cream 
and  fo  fquirt  it  in  till  the  pot  be  full  if  you  make  it 
in  the  morning  very  early  twill  be  ready  to  eat  y* 
afternoon.    Some  boyle  a  blade  of  mace  in  the  cream. 

III.  'To  make  a  Snow  to  'put  on  the  Sullibub. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  cream  and  the  whites  of  4  or  5 
eggs  and  a  little  rofe  water  Sweeten  this  with 
Sugar  beat  this  with  a  ftick  which  muft  be  cloven  in 
5  or  6  parts  beat  it  till  you  find  it  begin  to  rife  in 
bubbles  with  a  fpoon  take  oif  thofe  and  lay  them  in 
a  difh  fo  beat  till  you  have  all  that  will  rife  y^  when 
your  fuUibubs  is  ready  to  be  ufed  lay  on  the  upermoft 
of  the  fnow  and  heap  it  high. 

112.   To  make  Clouted  Cream. 

TAKE  the  top  of  your  milk  after  it  has  ftood  one 
hour  and  make  it  fcaulding  hot  let  it  not  boyle 
then  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan  then  leave  it  half  an 
hour  to  make  it  froth  as  much  as  you  can  then  fet  it 
into  the  oven  as  foon  as  bread  is  drawn  out  of  it  let 

44 


it  ftand  in  7  or  8  hours  then  take  it  out  gently  and  let 
it  ftand  at  left  24  hours  before  you  ufe  it  make  a 
bottom  to  it  with  Sweet  cream  boyle  it  and  boyle 
large  mace  with  it  y^  beat  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs 
with  a  litde  rofe  water  then  take  the  cream  from  the 
iire  and  put  2  or  3  Spoonfulls  of  it  to  the  eggs  then 
Stir  them  together  and  put  them  into  a  pofnet  to 
cream  then  Set  it  over  the  fire  &  let  it  boyle  one 
walme  then  take  it  off  and  fweeten  it  with  Sugar  if 
you  ftiould  put  the  eggs  into  it  whilft  it  is  over  the 
fire  it  will  be  apt  to  curdle  Stir  it  all  the  while  it 
ftands  on  the  fire  after  the  eggs  are  put  in  when  it's 
Sweeten'd  let  it  ftand  being  Stir'd  with  a  Spoon  till 
it  be  pafte  creaming  at  top  when  it  is  cold  take  off 
the  top  of  the  baked  cream  with  a  Skimer  and  lay  it 
upon  the  other  Scrape  Sugar  on  it  and  fo  ferve  it 
the  baked  cream  will  be  near  an  inch  thick  if  it  ftand 
2  or  3  days. 

113.  I'he  Red  Surfet  Water  for  any  Surfet, 

TAKE  a  gallon  of  the  beft  aquavite  a  pint  of 
the  beft  damafke  rofe  water  a  pound  of  white 
Sugar  candy  put  all  thefe  into  a  large  ftone  jug  to 
fteep  a  day  and  a  night  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of 
poppy  water  diftilled  as  you  do  your  rofe  water  with 
a  pound  and  half  of  raifons  of  the  Sun  Stoned  with 
half  a  pound  of  dates  the  Stones  taken  out  and  the 
white  fkins,  and  then  flice  them  very  thin  then  take 
of  mace  cinnamon  and  anyfeeds  of  each  an  ounce  of 
cloves  bruifed  half  an  ounce  liquorifti  fcraped  and 
fliced  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  your  anyfeeds  muft  be 
rubed  and  dufted  then  put  all  thefe  into  your  aqua- 
vite after  all  thefe  things  have  fteeped  4  days  put  into 
it  6  good  handfulls  of  red  poppie  leaves  it  is  the  red 
fingle  poppies  that  growes  amongft  the  corn  and  if  the 
colour  be  not  red  enough  put  in  more  leaves  &  after 
10  days  let  it  run  through  a  jelly  bag  and  put  it  into 

45 


your  glafs  and  fo  ftop  it  very  clofe  and  put  in  to  your 
glafs  to  it  2  pounds  of  your  fmooth  mufk  carraway 
comfets,  and  fo  keep  it  for  your  ufe,  the  Spice  and 
Seeds  muft  be  bruifed  if  you  do  not  fqueeze  thofe 
things  when  you  ftrain  it  you  may  put  it  into  the  jug 
again  w*^  a  gallon  more  of  aquavite  and  half  a  pint  of 
poppie  water  and  a  pound  of  Sugar  candie  more.  Stir 
it  every  day  twice  or  thrice  for  ten  days  together 
and  keep  it  clofe  ftoped  and  then  you  may  mix  fome 
of  that  fmaller  with  the  firft  which  was  the  ftrongeft 
of  all.  This  water  is  good  for  any  furfet  what  fo  ever 
by  any  accident  and  they  may  give  2  or  3  SpoonfuUs 
laft  at  night  and  if  the  Surfet  be  dangerous  give  it 
once  in  6  or  8  hours  for  3  feveral  times  or  in  necef- 
fity  oftner. 

114.  To  make  French  Bread, 

TAKE  to  a  peck  of  flour  2  ounces  of  fait  and  a 
pint  or  more  of  very  good  ale  yeft  and  knead  it 
up  as  other  bread  with  warm  water  as  light  as  pofTible 
then  let  it  lye  half  an  hour  to  rife  then  cut  it  to  the 
bignefs  you  will  have  every  loafe,  which  is  about  y® 
bignefs  of  a  penny  loafe  and  make  them  up  very 
lightly  not  moulding  it  at  all  and  put  them  into 
difhes  flouring  the  diflies  firfl:  with  flour  and  cut  oiF 
that  may  be  on  the  top  to  much  then  cover  them  up 
clofe  again  and  let  them  fl:and  and  rife  again  till  they 
have  rifen  their  full  which  you  may  know  by  the  flour 
on  the  top  which  will  begin  to  be  crakling  on  the  top 
then  haveing  your  oven  ready  hot  and  pretty  quick 
turn  them  out  of  the  difhes  upon  a  peele  flour'd 
ready  and  fo  fet  them  in  as  faft  as  you  can  never 
pricking  or  cuting  them  round,  Set  the  oven  led  up 
clofe  but  not  Stop  it  approved  of  your  dough  mufl:  be 
as  light  as  any  cake  bread  fo  fome  flour  will  require 
more  yefl:  and  water  than  other  this  is  left  to  y^  bakers 
difcretion. 

46 


115.   'To  Dry  Apr i cocks. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  Apricocks  3  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  double  refined  Sugar  pare  the  apricocks  very 
thin  and  flit  them  in  the  Seame  of  the  apricocks  then 
forth  the  ftones  then  ftrew  the  filver  bafon  or  deep 
difh  you  boyle  them  in  with  the  lefTer  half  of  the 
Sugar  being  finely  beaten  and  fearched  then  fet  the 
apricocks  in  the  bafon  or  difh  that  end  downward 
which  grew  in  the  ftalk  with  them.  Strew  the  refl  of 
the  Sugar  upon  them  and  cover  y^  and  let  them  fland 
one  night  or  one  day  while  it  be  difTolved  then  let  it 
boyle  for  one  quarter  of  an  hour  upon  a  quick  fire  be- 
fore they  be  half  boyled  turn  them  with  a  fpoon  when 
boyled  let  them  ftand  2  days  in  the  Sirrop  before  you 
take  them  forth  fo  dip  them  in  the  Same  then  lay  them 
on  tin  plates  in  the  Sun  and  turn  y^  every  morning. 

116.  To  make  Plumme  Gimbols. 

TAKE  your  plummes  when  full  ripe  and  put  them 
in  a  porringer  and  fet  them  over  the  fire  and  ftir 
them  continually  with  a  Spoon  and  when  they  begins 
to  brake  and  be  foft  take  them  out  and  pick  off  all 
their  fkins  flalks  and  flones  very  clean  when  you  have 
done  fo  fett  them  on  the  fire  again  ftill  flirring  till 
fuch  time  all  the  moifture  be  almoft  dryed  up  and  the 
plum  fluff  be  pretty  flifF  then  take  it  off  the  fire  fo  let 
it  fland  till  it  cold  then  take  double  refined  Sugar  and 
put  to  the  plumme  fluff  and  take  as  much  Sugar  as 
will  make  it  pafle  and  rowle  it  and  worke  it  together 
and  let  it  be  as  thick  as  pafle  then  rowle  it  in  works 
as  you  do  gimbols  in  what  faifhon  you  pleafe  you 
need  not  oven  them  they  will  be  dry  of  themfelves. 

117.  To  dry  Cherry s  Red. 

TAKE  to  3  pound  of  cherrys  being  through  ripe 
and  Stoned  weigh  them  and  to  your  3  pound  take 
a  pound  of  the  befl  hard  Sugar  beat  it  and  put  it  into 

47 


your  preferving  pan  and  put  better  than  half  a  pint 
of  water  to  it  and  with  your  hand  ftir  it  all  together 
then  put  in  your  cherry s  and  Stir  them  in  your  water 
and  Sugar  and  cover  them  and  make  them  boyle  as 
faft  as  pofTibly  you  can  Scumme  them  and  when  they 
be  a  little  foft  take  them  off  the  fire  and  pour  them 
Sirrop  and  all  into  a  gaily  pot  then  cover  them  and  fo 
let  them  ftand  24  hours  then  pour  them  into  a  Sive 
and  let  ye  Sirrop  run  from  them  and  then  lay  them 
on  glafs  plates  as  clofe  as  you  can  one  by  one  or  upon  a 
clean  five  dry  them  ether  in  the  Sun,  Stove  or  oven 
when  one  fide  is  pretty  dry  flat  them  and  turn  them 
and  when  through  dry  box  them  very  clofe  and  let  no 
air  come  to  them  they  muft  be  turned  twice  a  day  till 
through  dry  and  on  frefh  things. 

118.  'To  make  Bean  Cakes, 

LAY  in  water  half  an  hour  before  you  ufe  them 
half  a  pound  of  almonds  then  blanch  and  flit  them 
very  thin  as  pofl^ble  you  may  the  long  way  of  the 
almonds  then  take  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  finely  beaten 
and  fearch'd  and  mingle  with  the  almonds  that  are 
well  dry'd  from  y^  water  then  take  the  whites  of 
2  eggs  with  butter  and  wet  the  fugar  and  almonds 
wherewith  but  not  to  much  for  they  may  be  foon 
over  wet  then  take  of  your  fine  wafer  flieets  that  are 
made  for  bottom  and  cut  out  into  round  cafes  and  fo 
fpread  your  almonds  in  little  ruflles  cakes  the  almonds 
being  fet  with  a  bodkin  edge  long  you  mufl:  mingle 
alfo  fome  cardimum  or  caraway  feeds  either  will  do  well 
with  Sugar  y^  put  them  on  warm  plates  fet  them  in  a 
quick  oven  but  not  over  hot  neither  mufl:  they  flay 
to  long  for  loofeing  their  colour  you  muft  beat  your 
eggs  with  a  little  rofewater. 


48 


119.   T^he  Cahhidge  Cream, 

TAKE  6  gallons  of  new  milk  and  let  it  be  ready 
to  boyle  then  put  in  one  porringer  full  of  cold 
cream  and  ftir  it  well  about  fill  then  18  broad  flat 
pans  when  tis  cold  take  off  the  cream  and  lay  it  round 
in  a  difh  like  a  cabbidge  and  fprinkle  a  little  rofe 
water  and  a  little  Sugar  well  beaten  and  fifted  then 
Scauld  your  milk  again  and  put  y®  fame  quantity  of 
cream  you  did  before  till  it  be  like  a  little  cabbidge 
the  laft  cream  that  you  take  off  the  Scauled  milk  lay 
plain  upon  the  cabbidge  but  put  no  cold  cream  to  it 
y^  ftrew  fome  rofewater  upon  it. 

1 20.   jT^  make  Fafte  of  Apricocks. 

TAKE  apricocks  before  they  be  quite  ripe  and 
after  you  have  coddled  them  then  pare  them  let 
them  not  be  to  foft  then  they  will  not  be  fo  trouble- 
fome  to  pare  then  beat  them  very  fmall  in  a  morter 
then  put  them  in  a  difh  and  Set  them  on  a  fire  never 
leting  them  to  be  any  hotter  than  you  can  indure 
your  finger  at  the  bottom  of  the  difh  never  to  boyle 
for  if  they  fhould  be  to  hot  it  would  fpoile  the  colour 
of  your  pulp  and  fo  let  them  ftand  on  the  fire  till 
they  be  pretty  dry  which  will  be  till  the  Sugar  is 
boyled  up  to  Sugar  and  that  very  high  to  dry  Sugar 
again  you  muft  take  to  4  pound  of  Sugar  4  pound  of 
apricocks  after  you  have  coddled  ftoned  and  pared 
them  and  when  itbefo  take  it  ofFandputit  into  your 
pulp  till  it  be  cold  and  when  it  is  well  mingled  then 
fet  it  on  the  fire  again  in  a  difh  or  bafon  that  it  was 
in  before  upon  a  chafFen  difh  of  coales  and  not  to  be 
any  hotter  than  it  was  before  in  the  drying  before  the 
Sugar  was  in  it  and  then  you  fhall  fee  it  will  thicken 
and  come  to  a  pafle,  then  take  your  moulds  and  put 
in  them  and  fo  let  them  fland  to  dry  either  in  the  fun 
or  in  a  flove  and  when  they  be  half  dry  cut  them  on 

49  E 


y^  edges  and  take  your  moulds  off  it  muft  be  very 
thick  pafte  before  you  put  it  into  your  moulds  or  it 
will  run  about  do  what  you  can  it  will  run  a  little, 
after  the  fame  manner  you  may  make  pafte  of  coddle- 
ings  only  when  they  are  coddled  peel  them  and  put 
them  in  hot  water  to  green  if  one  water  will  not  do 
put  in  more  till  they  are  green  then  cover  them  clofe 
till  they  are  green,  you  muft  dip  your  Sugar  in 
water. 

121.  Angelicoe  Cakes. 

PUT  your  angelicoe  in  hot  water  and  fo  let  it  green 
boyle  your  Sugar  to  candie  hight  chop  your  an- 
gelicoe fmall  and  fo  ftir  it  together  drop  it  into  cakes 
&  fo  put  it  in  a  ftove. 

122.  'To  make  a  Lemon  Cream. 

TAKE  your  beft  cream  and  boyle  it  well  and  when 
it  is  ready  take  it  off^  put  in  the  yolkes  of  2  eggs 
well  beaten  and  let  it  have  a  boyle  the  Sugar  muft  be 
boyled  in  the  cream  before  the  eggs  be  in  y'^  have  in 
readinefs  the  juice  of  2  lemons  in  a  difti  and  when 
your  cream  is  pretty  cold  Stir  the  juice  of  lemon  and 
Sugar  and  keep  it  well  Stiring  till  tis  almoft  cold  then 
put  it  into  a  difti  for  your  ufe. 

123.  A  Clouted  Cream. 

TAKE  2  gallons  of  new  milk  and  put  into  5  or  6 
pans  and  let  it  ftand  all  night  and  next  day  upon 
a  charcole  fire  fet  the  pans  gentlely  on  the  fire  and  as 
it  creams  take  it  off^  and  lay  it  in  your  difti  and  as  you 
lay  it  in  Strew  on  a  little  fine  Sugar  and  when  you 
have  taken  all  the  cream  put  to  it  a  little  cold  cream 
&  fo  ufe  it. 

124.  To  pickle  Mu/hroms. 

GATHER  them  early  in  a  morning  about  the  big- 
nefs  of  a  walnut  let  them  be  frefti  and  red  under- 
neath and  of  one  nights  growth  blanch  them  of  the 

50 


outfide  and  pare  them  within  with  fome  part  of  the 
ftalks  if  it  be  tender  and  then  Strew  them  into  a  pan 
of  fair  water  and  a  fmall  quantity  of  fait  fhift  them  fo 
3  times  and  then  take  them  out  of  the  water  and  put 
them  into  a  ikillet  w*^  as  much  fair  water  as  will  cover 
them  a  little  Salt  a  faggot  of  herbs  and  an  oynion  and 
when  they  do  begin  to  boyle  befure  to  Scumme  it 
very  carefully  and  put  3  fpoonfuUs  of  white  wine 
vinegar  and  when  they  are  fo  done  ftrain  them  let 
them  ftand  till  they  be  cold  make  them  a  pickle  2  parts 
white  wine  it  Self  and  the  other  part  elder  vinegar 
and  put  them  all  into  a  glafs  or  pot  and  put  the  pickle 
to  them,  with  a  little  long  pepper  a  few  cloves  one  or 
two  nutmegs  quarter'd  a  little  mace  a  little  Salt,  and 
befure  to  Stop  them  up  very  clofe  that  no  air  may 
enter. 


125.   To  preferve  White  Quinces  whole, 

TAKE  a  handfull  of  the  kernells  that  will  jelly  and 
put  them  in  a  little  Spring  water  over  night  then 
take  your  quinces  that  are  of  a  greenifli  colour  and 
doth  cut  tender  as  any  apple  core  it  very  well  with  a 
Scoop  and  pare  it  and  put  it  into  a  Skillet  that  will 
hold  but  one  at  once  take  as  much  double  refined 
Sugar  as  the  weight  of  the  quince  and  as  much  water 
as  will  cover  the  quince  Set  y^  fame  water  and  Sugar 
over  the  fire  keeping  it  boyling  as  faft  as  may  be  and 
when  you  fee  it  to  be  clear  and  tender  take  it  up  and 
put  it  into  your  glafs  or  pot  crufhing  it  flat  down  with 
the  back  of  a  Spoon  then  put  into  the  Sirrop  6  fpoon- 
fuUs of  pippin  liquor  and  2  SpoonfuUs  of  the  jelly 
from  the  kernells  then  fet  it  on  the  fire  Stiring  it  ftill 
and  when  it  boyles  Scumme  it  clean  and  then  put  in 
your  quinces  again  and  let  it  boyle  6  walms  keeping 
it  ftill  Shaking  left  it  burn  fo  then  take  it  up  and  put 
it  into  your  glafs  again   you  muft  be  fure  to  have 

51 


Sirrop  enough  for  ever  and  anone  there  will  rife  a 
coat  upon  it  y*  muft  be  taken  off  and  frefh  Sirrop 
put  in. 

126.  'To  preferve  Goojherrys. 

TAKE  as  much  double  refined  fugarasy®  goofberrys 
weigh  unpicked  and  unftoned  and  to  a  pound  of 
Sugar  take  half  a  pint  of  water  and  when  your  goof- 
berrys  are  clean  pickt  and  ftoned  fet  your  Sugar  and 
water  over  the  fire  and  make  your  Sirrop  and  when 
it  is  clean  fcummed  put  in  your  goofberrys  and  let 
them  boyle  as  fafk  as  poffibly  you  can  till  they  clear 
and  the  firrop  thick  enough  which  will  be  in  lefs  than 
a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

127.  To  make  Jelly. 

TAKE  a  nuckell  of  veal  cut  off  the  fat  and  fkin  2 
calves  feet  very  white  lay  the  veal  and  feet  in 
warm  water  to  foak  out  the  blood  ihift  it  into  frefh 
water  till  all  the  blood  be  out  then  fet  it  to  boyle  in 
3  gallons  of  Spring  water  boyleing  it  continually  till 
it  come  to  a  pottle  or  3  pints  then  if  you  will  have  it 
white  put  in  a  pint  of  white  wine,  if  red  put  in  red 
wine,  and  boyle  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  then  take  it 
and  ftrain  it  and  when  tis  cold  take  off  all  the  fat  and 
leave  the  drofs  in  the  bottom  and  to  every  quart  of 
clear  broth  take  cinnamon  and  nutmegs  of  each  an 
ounce  half  an  ounce  of  ginger  fliced  break  your  cinna- 
mon in  pieces  and  quarter  your  nutmegs,  then  take 
2  fpoonfuUs  of  corriander  feed  half  a  pound  of  Sugar 
6  Spoonfulls  of  rofewater  put  all  thefe  into  a  new 
pipkine  w*^  the  whites  of  8  new  laid  eggs  well  beaten 
flir  all  thefe  very  well  together  and  fet  them  over 
boyling  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  &  ftiring  them  all 
the  while  then  pour  it  into  your  bagg  with  2  hand- 
fulls  of  rofemary  in  the  bottom  of  ye  bag  run  it 
through  y®  bag  twice  or  thrice. 

52 


1 28.  'To  preferve  Rajberrys. 

TAKE  the  juice  of  rafberrys  and  make  your  Sirrop 
of  it  to  a  pound  of  rafberrys  take  a  pound  of  fugar 
and  put  half  the  Sugar  to  ye  juice  and  let  it  boyle, 
the  put  in  the  rafberrys  and  let  them  boyle  as  faft  as 
they  can  take  them  off  and  Shake  them  oft  put  in  y'^ 
then  reft  of  the  Sugar  by  degrees  as  they  boyle  but 
touch  them  not,  when  they  are  enough  the  ftones  will 
look  clear    So  you  may  do  currants  or  cherrys. 

129.  To  preferve  Oranges. 

LAY  your  oranges  in  water  all  night  then  pare  off 
the  rine  as  thin  as  may  be  then  make  a  round 
hole  that  your  finger  may  go  in  and  take  out  all  the 
feeds  and  fet  them  on  the  fire  &  let  them  boyle  half 
an  hour  or  better  then  take  them  out  and  put  them 
into  cold  water  till  the  next  morning  then  looke  that 
all  the  feeds  be  out  and  boyle  them  in  a  frefh  water  as 
before  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  again  &  the  next 
morning  boyle  them  till  they  be  very  tender  that  a 
fmall  bennet  will  go  through  them,  then  fet  them  with 
the  holes  downward  on  a  clean  cloth  to  drain  3  or  4 
times  double  then  to  every  pound  of  orange  take  a 
pound  and  half  of  Sugar  and  to  every  pound  of  Sugar 
a  pint  of  water  make  your  Sirrop  and  clear  it  and 
ftrain  it  then  put  in  your  oranges  letting  them  boyle 
moderately  till  they  be  clear,  turning  them  often,  then 
take  them  up  and  when  they  be  cold  put  them  into  a 
gallypot  or  glafs  &  when  they  have  lain  a  fortnight  in 
the  Sirrop  take  them  up  &  boyle  the  Sirrop  again. 

130.   Tofouce  Pigg. 

CUT  your  pigg  into  4  collers  of  a  Side  take  12 
cloves  4  leaves  of  large  mace  2  nutmegs   Shred 
thin  ftrew  all  thefe  on  the  collers  with  a  little  fait 

53 


rowle  them  up  hard  and  bind  them  clofe  and  boyle 
them  4  hours  and  when  tis  almoft  boyled  put  in  a 
faggot  of  Sweet  herbs  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar. 

131.  To  preferve  Apricocks. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  a  pound  of  apricocks 
Stone  them  and  pare  them  very  thin  let  the  Sugar 
be  beaten  very  fine  lay  the  apricocks  in  3  parts  of  the 
Sugar  all  night  the  next  morning  boyle  them  in  their 
own  Sirrop  and  when  you  have  Scummed  them  caft 
in  the  re  of  the  Sugar  in  the  boyling  &  when  they 
are  enough  and  Scummed  put  in  your  ambergreafe  & 
take  Y^  up. 

132.  A  Sweet  Bag, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  benjamin  and  half  a  pound 
of  Storacks  half  a  pound  of  orris  an  ounce  of 
cloves  and  a  few  orange  peels  dryed  a  little  fweet  mar- 
jerrum  dryed  beat  all  thefe  pretty  grofs  and  take  half 
a  bufhel  of  damalk  rofes,  and  a  gentle  fire  under  a 
Still  fill  the  Still  w*^  rofes  juft  damp  them  then  take 
them  out  and  put  them  into  a  large  difh  and  pull  them 
all  to  pieces  while  they  be  hot  Strew  thefe  powders 
being  mixt  on  the  rofes  work  all  thefe  together  fo  that 
the  powder  may  ftick  on  the  rofes  do  thus  till  all  the 
rofes  be  done  then  take  a  great  preferveing  glafs  or  2 
that  will  more  than  hold  it  and  lay  in  a  lay  of  rofes 
and  ftrew  in  fome  powder  fo  do  till  all  be  in  the 
glafles  then  bind  it  up  clofe  with  a  double  white  paper 
and  leather  on  the  top  then  fet  it  as  hot  as  you  can  in 
the  Sun  every  day  Shake  the  glafles  very  well  if  you 
find  it  do  cake  in  the  middle  put  your  hand  in  the 
glafles  and  ftir  it  very  well  and  when  tis  very  dry  put 
fome  amber  greafe  pounded  &  fome  civet  rub  it  about 
the  leaves  what  quantity  you  pleafe  fo  you  may  keep 
it  in  bags  as  long  as  you  pleafe. 

54 


133.  '^0  coller  *Beef. 

BONE  the  beef  and  rub  the  infide  of  it  with  Salt- 
peeter  a  handfull  and  fait  it  with  as  much  bag  Salt 
as  will  feafon  it  then  lay  it  in  pump  water  4  days  then 
let  it  hang  to  run  dry  then  feafon  it  with  cloves  mace 
nutmegs,  marjerom  perfly  time,  Seewory  Sage,  Shred 
fmall  then  rowle  it  upward  and  bind  it  very  hard  with 
broad  inkle  and  bake  it  in  a  pot  filled  half  full  of  water 
w^  tis  baked  take  it  out  of  the  liquor  and  keep  it  dry. 

134.  Cherry  Wine. 

r\  A  POUND  of  cherrys  ftalk'd  and  ftoned  and 
^  ^^  preft  in  a  pot  and  fo  ftand  30  hours  or  more 
then  put  all  in  a  cotton  bag  ftrain  it  in  an  earthen 
pan  and  one  pound  of  Loafe  Sugar  in  24  hours  twill 
run  out  fix  quarts  then  vefi^el  it  for  a  month  then 
bottle  it,  lay  down  the  bottles  in  a  fortnight  it  may  be 
drank. 

135.  Little  Cakes  to  he  baked  in  Pans. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  flour  and  dry  it  well  and  a  pound 
of  loafe  Sugar  beaten  and  dryed  fearch  them  both 
and  mingle  them  together  a  pound  of  fweet  butter  and 
wafii  it  in  rofe  water  and  worke  it  very  much  with  your 
hand  and  fl:rew  in  a  little  of  the  flour  and  Sugar  fl:ill 
workeing  it  till  tis  half  in  then  put  in  6  eggs  but4whites 
and  fo  by  degrees  worke  in  the  reft  when  the  oven  is 
fweeping  put  in  four  fpoonfulls  of  rofe  water  a  little 
beaten  mace  a  pound  of  currants  your  pans  muft  be 
ready  buttered  then  fill  them  half  full  and  fearch  fome 
double  refined  Sugar  on  them  bake  them  half  an  hour 
this  proportion  will  fill  2  dozen  of  pans. 

136.  To  make  a  Carrot  Pudding. 

TAKE  the  crum  of  a  2  penny  loaf  and  grate  it  and 
half  as  much  grated  carrot  and  6  eggs  but  4  whites 
and  fome  Sugar  and  half  a  nutmeg  a  little  fait  mix  it 

SS 


with  a  pint  &  half  of  cream  and  you  muft  put  it  into 
the  oven,  melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  or  better  of  frefh 
butter  put  a  little  rofe  water  2  or  3  fpoonfuUs  of  Sack 
then  put  it  into  the  oven  in  a  difh  and  let  it  ftand  half 
an  hour  the  oven  muft  not  be  to  hot  Stop  it  a  little. 

137.  A  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  cream  then  put  in  6  yolkes  of  eggs 
and  three  whites  well  beaten  then  fet  them  over 
the  fire  and  ftir  it  ye  while  then  put  in  fome  canded 
eringo  root,  candid  oringe  peel  cut  them  very  thin 
then  put  in  fome  preferv'd  plums  and  rafberrys  & 
jelly  of  pippins  ftir  it  well  together  and  put  it  in  your 
difh  and  w"  tis  cold  lay  it  over  with  apricock  jelly  and 
jelly  of  currants  and  quinces  jelly  alfo  cut  in  pretty 
fancy  s. 

138.   To  make  a  Flejh  Cheefe. 

TAKE  2  oxe  cheeks  beat  the  bones  very  well  & 
thofe  that  are  not  fit  to  bake  take  out  feafon  it 
with  cloves  and  mace  jemacoe  pepper  and  fait  as  you 
fee  fit  put  it  into  a  pot  and  put  to  it  a  pound  and  half 
of  beef  fuit  &  a  pint  of  claret  a  faggot  of  Sweet  herbs 
&  an  oynion  bake  it  throughly  then  take  out  all  the 
bones  and  beat  the  meat  in  a  morter  very  well  and 
pour  away  the  gravey  and  let  it  be  cold  and  take  ofF 
the  fat  then  put  the  gravey  to  the  meat  again  and  put 
it  in  a  Stewing  pan  over  a  charcole  fire  ftew  it  till  it  be 
thick  &  put  it  in  a  little  cheefe  vate  fcaulding  hot  with 
a  cloth  as  another  cheefe  and  tuck  it  in  well  turn  it  3 
times  before  it  is  cold  and  prefs  it  very  well  then  take 
it  out  &  put  it  on  a  board  till  it  be  cold  it  will  not 
keep  long. 

139.  A  Cordiall  Organy  Water. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  Sack  and  3  pints  of  the  juice 
of  organy  fome  cloves  a  little  fafFron  let  thefe  in- 
fufe  all  night  on  embers  &  bruife  a  handfuU  of  organy 

56 


and  put  thereto  &  ftill  it  in  a  plain  Still  tis  good  for 
the  Spleen  y^  Stomack  or  mother  you  may  ftill  barm 
thus. 

140.  To  Salt  Hams  or  'Tongues, 

TAKE  fuch  a  quantity  of  water  as  will  cover  them 
&  put  in  as  much  bay  fait  &  fait  peeter  2  parts 
of  the  former  and  one  of  the  latter  as  will  make  a 
brine  ftrong  enough  to  bare  an  o^gg  up  the  breadth  of 
a  6  pence  when  it  is  all  diffolved  over  the  fire  then 
boyle  it  till  you  have  fcumm'd  it  clean  &  when  it  is 
cold  put  in  your  ham  or  tongues  &  let  them  lye  in 
it  a  fortnight  then  fmoake  them  in  chimney  a  fort- 
night longer. 

141.  Dr.  Moors  admired  Fills, 

TAKE  alloes  mirrh  and  fafTron  of  each  2  drams 
into  fine  powder  fait  of  wormwood  and  cream  of 
tartar  of  each  \  a  dram  mingle  all  thefe  well  together 
and  the  Sirrop  of  fharp  citterns  make  it  into  a  mafs 
for  pills  adding  a  drop  of  oyle  of  rofemary  and  when 
you  go  to  bed  at  night  take  3  pills  &  3  in  the  morn- 
ing and  pofTet  drink  in  ye  workeing. 

142.   To  make  Almond  Puddings, 

TAKE  one  pound  of  almonds  beat  very  fmall  with 
rofe  water  one  pound  of  the  beft  beef  fewit  Shred 
very  fmall  &  the  marrow  of  one  bone  cut  very  thin 
after  it  has  been  foaked  to  fetch  out  the  rednefs  &  a 
quarter  of  a  penny  loaf  grated  boyle  in  a  quart  of 
cream  half  an  ounce  of  mace  then  take  ye  yolkes  of 
8  eggs  and  the  whites  of  4  &  whip  them  well  mix 
thefe  altogether  with  a  little  Salt  and  almoft  a  pound 
of  Sugar,  the  guts  muft  be  ftript  very  thin  ana 
renced  in  rofewater. 

57 


143-   T'o  make  Sawcidges. 

TAKE  2  pound  of  porke  or  veale  and  one  of  beef 
fewitj  mince  it  as  fmall  as  pofTible  and  put  to  it  a 
handfull  of  chopt  fage  &  a  quarter  of  a  penny  loafe 
grat'd  &  almoft  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  pepper  one 
nutmeg  with  cloves  enough  to  make  it  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  &  almoft  double  to  the  quantity  of  Spice  in 
Salt  mix  all  thefe  very  well  together  with  ye  yolk  of 
one  ^^g  &  rowle  them  up  of  a  convenient  length  they 
muft  be  fry'd  very  quick. 

144.    T!o  make  Whipt  Sullibubs. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  2  or  3  Spoonfulls 
of  Sack  and  flice  part  of  a  lemon  into  it  and  let  it 
ftand  one  hour  Sweeten  it  and  put  to  it  a  quart  of 
fweet  cream  whip  it  and  when  the  froth  rifes  put  it 
into  glafles. 

''145.   To  make  a  Cor di all  Water, 

TAKE  the  leaves  of  mint  balme  wild  time  mar- 
jorum  meadfweet  the  roots  of  avens  of  each  2 
handfuUs  and  half  the  flowers  of  cowflips,  rofemary, 
red  rofes,  marigolds  rofafolis,  burrage  bugglafe  gilly 
flowers  harts  eafe  funflowers,  of  each  one  handfull 
Cinnamon  and  lemon  peel  of  each  half  an  ounce 
infufe  all  thefe  in  3  quarts  of  aquavite  in  a  cold  Still 
ftopt  for  2  days  and  nights  then  draw  it  off^  with  a 
gentle  fire  if  you  pleafe  put  into  your  receiver  mufk 
&  ambergreafe  of  each  3  grains  tyed  up  in  a  thin  bag 
w*^  your  Saffron  pafte  your  Still  clofe  with  rye  dough 
you  may  draw  as  much  in  quantity  as  your  aquavite 
put  into  it  2  pound  and  half  of  double  refined  Sugar 
ftiring  it  often  that  it  may  not  Candie.  Becaufe  the 
flowers  &  roots  &  herbs  are  not  to  be  had  at  one 
time  you  muft  as  you  gather  them  bruife  y"^  gently 
in  a  ftone  mortar  putting  to  3  handfulls  of  flowers 
herbs  or  roots  one  handfull  of  bayfalt  mix  them  well 

58 


together  tye  them  up  very  clofe  in  an  earthen  pot 
well  glazed  the  beft  time  of  gathering  the  herbs  is 
mint  &  marjerom  in  may  balme  in  April  meadfweet 
&  rofafolis  in  June  Avens  in  July  Sunflower  in 
auguft. 

146.  To  Candie  Angelic oe  Stalks. 

TAKE  young  tender  ftalkes  flit  them  and  bruife 
them  at  one  end  that  you  may  firing  them  then 
boyle  them  in  water  till  they  will  peel  and  when 
peeled  put  them  into  other  fcaulding  water  covering 
them  clofe  let  them  fland  awhile  over  embers  to  green 
them  wafh  them  in  cold  water  lay  them  on  a  difh 
and  Strow  fome  Sugar  on  them  &  fet  them  on  coles 
to  dry  then  take  near  their  weight  in  Sugar  and  boyle 
it  to  a  candie  hight  then  put  in  your  flalks  they  will 
make  your  Sirrop  thin  but  boyle  them  till  they  grow 
flifF  &  fhine  and  your  Sirrop  is  almofl  to  Sugar  again 
then  lay  them  flat  on  a  plate  &  fet  them  before  the 
fire  to  dry  feting  them  fometimes  on  a  chafFendifh 
of  embers. 

147.   Tb  Fickle  Kidney  beans, 

TAKE  2  parts  vinegar  and  one  water  and  put  fait 
enough  to  make  it  bear  an  tgg  then  boyle  it,  and 
when  cold  put  in  your  beans,  being  firft  flrung  they 
will  keep  befl  in  glafs  being  clofe  covered  for  ufe  take 
as  many  to  fpend  in  2  or  3  weeks  &  put  them  in  a 
pipkin  with  half  water  and  half  vinegar  and  a  little 
fait  Stop  them  clofe  and  fet  them  over  a  gentle  fire 
till  they  be  green  and  tender  fo  keep  them  in  that 
till  ufed. 

148.   To  Pickle  Turneps. 

PARE  them  and  cut  them  in  thin  (lices  and  lay 
them  in  a  gallypot  flrewing  betwixt  each  row 
groffe  pepper  and  a  little  beaten  mace  when  they  are 
all  in  pour  as  much  vinegar  as  will  cover  them  in  3 
or  4  weeks  you  may  ufe  it. 

59 


149.  '^^  Pickle  Oyfters, 

TO  one  hundred  of  oyfters  take  a  quart  of  white 
wine  and  all  the  oyfter  liquor  ftrain  it  and  boyle 
it  and  fcumme  it  very  well  then  put  in  a  fpoonfuU  of 
whole  pepper  &  4  or  5  Heads  of  large  mace  boyle 
them  an  hour  and  when  cold  put  it  up. 

150.   1^0  Pickle  Broom  Buds. 

PICK  your  buds  whilft  they  are  green  before  they 
are  yellow  at  the  tops  and  make  a  brine  ftrong 
enough  to  bare  an  ^gg  boyle  it  and  when  it  is  cold 
put  in  your  buds  for  a  month  or  6  weeks  then  green 
them  puting  in  the  bottom  of  the  Skillet  nut  leaves 
then  pour  in  Spring  water  and  put  in  the  buds  and 
lay  more  leaves  upon  them  fet  them  on  a  gentle  fire 
and  when  tis  almoft  fcaulding  hot  pour  that  away  and 
put  in  more  cold  water  fo  do  9  or  10  times  till  they 
are  very  green  pot  them  up  in  vinegar  and  keep  them 
for  your  ufe. 

151.  T!o  make  Rajberry  or  Currant  Wine, 

TO  a  quart  of  water  take  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  3 
pound  of  rafberrys  bruife  them  in  a  ftone  morter 
and  put  them  into  your  water  and  Sugar  and  let  it 
ftand  24  hours  ftiring  3  or  4  times  then  ftrain  it 
through  a  hair  Sive  or  canvas  bag  then  tun  it  and 
ftop  it  clofe  in  3  or  4  weeks  it  will  be  fit  to  bottle  it 
will  keep  a  year  you  may  make  Goofberry  wine  this 
way. 

152.   1^0  make  Lemon  Cream, 

PARE  6  lemons  very  thin  and  put  the  parings  into 
a  quart  of  water  &  let  them  lye  in  it  24  hours 
then  fqueeze  the  juice  of  ye  6  lemons  into  ye  water 
and  fweeten  it  with  double  refined  Sugar  &  put  to  it 
3  fpoonfuUs  of  orange  flower  water  then  take  the 

60 


yolks  of  4  eggs  &  the  whites  of  lo  and  beat  them 
well  and  ftrain  them  into  your  water  &  fet  it  in  coles 
continually  ftiring  it  till  it  is  thick  enough  but  let  it 
not  boyle. 

153.  To  make  Almond  Cream, 

BLANCH  half  a  pound  of  almonds  and  beat  them 
very  fmall  putting  orange  flower  or  rofe  water  to 
them  put  to  that  7  eggs  well  beaten  then  take  a  quart 
of  cream  and  pour  part  of  it  to  your  almonds  &  ftrain 
it  then  pound  your  almonds  again  and  put  the  re- 
maining part  of  your  cream  to  them  do  fo  again  then 
fet  them  on  coles  and  keep  ftiring  it  till  tis  thick 
enough  sweeten  it  it  muft  not  boyle  ftir  it  till  it  be 
cold. 

154.  'To  make  Snow, 

WHIP  the  whites  of  3  eggs  very  well  and  fweeten 
a  quart  of  cream  and  put  to  them  then  whip  it 
together  then  put  to  it  3  quarters  of  a  pint  of  white 
wine  and.  as  much  Sack  continue  whiping  it  till  it  is 
very  light  &  as  it  rifes  take  it  oflF  &  lay  it  on  what 
you  pleafe. 

155.  Sirrop  of  Buckthorn  Berry s, 

TAKE  2  quarts  of  the  juice  of  the  berrys  and 
boyle  it  in  a  pipkin  to  one  quart  put  to  it  2 
pounds  of  white  Sugar  clarifye  it  with  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  ftrain  it  through  a  cotton  bag 
then  boyle  it  to  a  Sirrop  with  a  little  cinnamon  mace 
and  Shred  nutmeg  put  in  a  bag  and  wroung  now  and 
then  when  it  is  cold  bottle  it  up  for  ufe.  In  all 
Hydropicall  and  Scorbutical  Diftempers  3  fpoonfuUs 
is  a  refolveable  dofe  &  a  proper  medecin  taken  in 
white  wine. 


61 


156.  To  pot  Beefe. 

TAKE  6  pound  of  lean  beef  without  fkin  or  finews 
and  one  pound  &  half  of  fat  bacon  flice  both  thin 
and  pound  it  in  a  ftone  morter  and  feafon  it  with  a 
quarter  &  half  of  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  as  much 
pepper  and  a  good  nutmeg  &  as  much  Salt  as  Spice 
mix  it  very  well  and  when  it  is  baked  pour  y^  gravey 
from  it  prefs  it  abroad  in  a  pot  when  it  is  cold  cover 
it  with  butter  melted  it  will  keep  half  a  year  if  not  cut 
you  may  do  fat  beef  thus  only  leave  out  the  bacon. 

157.    To  make  a  Cake, 

TAKE  5  pound  of  flour  &  dry  it  well  and  5  pound 
of  currants  and  one  of  chopt  raifons  and  mix  with 
the  flour  then  take  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  a  good 
nutmeg  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace  &  one 
pound  of  Sugar  and  a  little  Salt  and  mix  with  it  near 
the  fire  then  take  almoft  a  quart  of  cream  and  melt 
it  in  a  pound  and  half  of  good  butter  make  2  holes  in 
the  flour  and  put  this  into  one  then  beat  16  eggs 
but  half  the  whites  and  ftrain  them  with  a  pint  and 
half  of  good  ale  yeft  put  to  it  Sack  and  rofewater  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  each  mix  it  and  put  it  into  ye 
other  hole  of  your  flour,  and  let  it  ftand  againfl:  the 
fire  to  warme  then  mix  it  near  the  fire  and  cover  it 
with  a  hot  cloth  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  rife  then 
fl:row  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  carraway  comfets  let 
it  take  ye  air  as  little  as  poflible  ye  oven  muft  be  hot 
an  hour  will  bake  it. 

158.   To  make  Jelly  of  Currants  or  any  other  Jut  eable 
fruit. 

STRIP  your  currants  into  an  earthen  pot  &  fet  it 
into  a  kittle  of  water  let  it  boyle  till  they  are 
broken  then  fl:rain  out  the  jelly  from  them  and  the 
weight  of  it  in  loafe  Sugar  put  the  Sugar  in  your  pre- 

62 


ferving  pan  with  water  enough  to  melt  it,  then  put  in 
your  jelly  let  it  boyle  &  fcumme  it  as  the  fcumme 
rifeth  till  it  comes  to  a  thick  jelly  but  not  hard  you 
muft  ftop  ye  pot  very  clofe  that  the  water  get  not 
into  it. 

159.   For  the  Yellow  or  Black  Jaundife, 

MAKE  a  wine  pint  of  clear  white  wine  pofTet 
drink  without  curd  then  take  half  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  the  oldeft  caftle  Soape  you  can  get  fcrape 
it  thin  and  put  it  into  as  much  of  the  pofTet  drink 
very  hot  to  defolve  the  caftle  Soape  as  the  party  can 
well  drink  at  a  draft  drink  it  as  warme  as  you  can 
going  to  bed  and  in  the  morning  fafting  the  remainder 
of  ye  pofTet  drink  faft  at  leaft  one  hour  after  it  thus  do  3 
nights  and  mornings  and  y^  but  once  in  a  year  unlefs 
occafion  be  to  take  it  oftner  &  t'will  cure  them. 

160.  For  Deafne/s  by  reafon  of  a  Cold, 

TAKE  a  drop  or  2  of  the  oyle  of  rue  heat  it  and 
drop  it  into  ye  ears  and  befure  to  keep  the  head 
warme. 

161.   'To  take  away  the  Felme  out  of  the  Eyes. 

TAKE  a  new  laid  tgg  and  make  a  little  hole  in  the 
top  or  one  end  and  take  out  the  yolke  and  white 
of  it  and  put  in  fair  running  water  or  red  rofe  water 
or  fennell  water  a  white  copperice  bruifed  and  as  much 
comeing  feed  as  you  can  hold  between  a  finger  and 
thumb  and  put  them  all  into  ye  tgg  fhell  and  put  y® 
fhell  upon  Tome  coles  &  let  them  boyle  a  little  &  let 
it  ftand  till  tis  cold  &  nights  and  mornings  drop 
a  drop  or  2  into  the  eye  &  clofe  the  eyeled  upon  it 
and  in  a  little  time  twill  cure  them. 

(>2, 


1 6  2.  Fo7'  a  Swelling  in  any  fart, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  ale  or  ftronge  beer  growns  mal- 
lows fage  and  elder  leaves  &  ftamp  them  fmall 
and  lin-feed  beaten  fmall  and  fheeps  fewit  or  fal- 
let  oyle  and  oatmeale  and  boyle  them  together  till  it 
is  as  thick  as  to  make  a  poultefs  then  lay  it  to  the 
place  fwellen  as  hot  as  it  can  be  endured  &  it  is  a 
ipeedy  remedy. 

163.  For  a  Purge, 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  carocoftinum  with 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine  being  fteep'd  in  it  all 
night  the  next  morning  drink  it  blood  warme  it  will 
give  6  or  8  ftools  or  this  take  ruebarbe  w*^  red  cur- 
rants beaten  together. 

164.   To  Harden  fore  Nipples, 

TAKE  borace  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  and  beat  it 
fmall  and  in  it  a  little  more  than  half  a  pint  ot 
milk  then  put  it  over  the  fire  and  when  it  is  difTolved 
and  almoft  ready  to  boyle  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and 
put  in  a  little  allom  in  powder  put  in  little  more  than 
will  make  it  turn  into  fmall  curds  that  it  looks  pretty 
white  then  flrain  it  through  a  cloth  from  y^  curds  and 
keep  it  for  your  ufe  you  cannot  err  in  putting  in  ye 
borace  for  the  more  you  put  in  ye  more  healing  your 
way  of  ufeing  it  is  to  bathe  your  nipples  as  hot  as  you 
can  fuffer  it  mornings  and  nights  and  lay  a  cloth  wet 
in  it  2  or  3  times  double  upon  the  nipples  being  firft 
finged  you  mufl  bathe  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  at  a 
time  and  lay  on  the  wet  cloth  as  hot  as  you  can 
fuffer  it. 

165.  For  the  Biting  of  a  Mad  Bog, 

TAKE  filings  or  fcrapeings  of  pewter  Garlick  and 
Venice  treacle  beat  them  together  very  well  in  a 
morter  till  they  come  to  be  like  a  poultis  lay  it  on  y® 
bitten  place.    Moulins  Re:°*. 

64 


1 66.   For  a  Child  troubled  with  man  wormes  which 
often  occaftons  Convulfions. 

TAKE  notice  when  you  fear  fits  to  lick  in  a  morn- 
ing fafting  the  childs  forehead  if  it  tafte  fait  then 
it  hath  man  wormes  then  anoint  the  navell  and  ftom- 
ach  with  oyle  of  wormwood  3  days  before  and  3  days 
after  the  full  of  the  moon  then  make  2  playfters  of 
Galbanum  &  lay  one  to  the  ftomach  and  the  other  to 
the  navell  if  it  fhould  have  convulsion  fitts  give  it  3 
drops  of  juice  of  rue  3  times  juft  before  ye  fit  comes 
and  to  fweeten  the  mouth  give  it  what  you  pleafe. 

167.  Another  aprovedfor  Convuljion  Fitts. 

TAKE  a  good  found  nutmeg  the  fame  weight  in 
cloves  and  likewife  of  mace  breake  thefe  fpices 
very  fmall  and  boyle  them  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
ftrong  aquavite  till  it  comes  to  the  confiftence  of 
methridate  Spread  half  of  this  on  a  fcarlet  cloth  & 
apply  it  to  y®  Stomach  this  ufually  cures  at  once  but 
never  fails  at  twice  when  a  fitts  comeing. 

168.  Cracknell  Pafte, 

ONE  pound  of  flour  one  pound  of  fine  Sugar  2 
yolkes  and  one  white  of  an  tgg  half  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter  2  fpoonfulls  of  rofe  water  coUiander 
feed  prepared  make  it  up  with  thick  cream. 

169.  Jumble  Pafte, 

r\  POUND  of  flour  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  the 
^  yolkes  of  7  eggs  colliander  feeds  prepared  make 
it  up  with  thick  cream. 

170.  Dr.  BurgeJJes  Ref  againft  Ye  Scurvy, 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Gwacombewood 
and  boyle  it  in  a  pottle  of  fair  water  till  it  comes 
to  a  quarter  take  thereof  a  mouthfuU  rowling  it  to 

65  F 


T 


and  fro  a  little  time  then  put  it  out  and  prefently 
take  another  mouthful!  &  fwallow  it  then  take  another 
&  rowle  it  on  your  mouth  a  quarter  of  an  hour  do 
thus  12  times  a  day. 

171.  For  the  Stone, 

AKE  3  quarts  of  white  wine  and  2  ounces  of 
beaten  annyfeeds  2  ounces  of  liquorifh  a  good 
handful!  of  burdock  roots  all  thefe  you  muft  boyle  in 
y^  white  wine  till  one  half  be  confumed  &  fo  take  it 
as  often  as  your  ftomach  will  digeft  it  taking  nothing 
between. 

172.  Fills  to  kill  Wormes  and  Open  Ohjlru5lions. 

TAKE  one  ounce  of  allocs  wafht  clean  in  damafk 
rofe  water  half  an  ounce  of  mirrhe  half  an  ounce 
of  faffron  &  a  dram  of  rubarb  make  them  into  a  mafs 
with  Sirrop  of  lemons,  and  3  of  them  take  when  you 
fee  occafion  about  y®  bignefs  of  a  fmall  peafe  at  night 
going  to  bed. 

173.  For  a  Rupture, 

TAKE  Snails  &  dry  them  well  &  beat  them  to 
powder  &  drink  ye  powder  in  drink. 

174.  For  the  Megrime  in  the  Head, 

TAKE  goates  dung  and  mix  it  with  vinegar  of 
fquils  and  anoint  the  head  and  temples  therewith. 
or  this,  frankinfence  mirrh  and  an  ^^g  beat  them  to- 
gether &  apply  it  to  the  head  and  temples. 

175.  For  the  Dropjey, 

TAKE  green  broom  3  handfuUs  and  burn  it  to 
afhes  and  fteep  it  in  a  pottle  of  white  wine  all 
night  then  ftrain  it  and  drink  a  wineglafs  of  it  every 
morning  then  afterwards  take  a  greater  quantity  of 
green  broomes  2  gallons  of  fweet  wort  &  boyle  it 
and  put  it  into  a  runlet  w*^  elecampane  or  liquorifh. 

66 


176.  Againft  the  Plague. 

TAKE  a  handfull  of  elder  leaves  and  a  handfull 
of  rue  &  as  much  brown  Sage  a  handfull  of 
wormewood  &  a  handfull  of  brier  leaves  fteep  them 
in  ftrong  beer  or  white  wine  2  quarts  take  2  fpoon- 
fuUs  at  a  time  morning  and  evening  &  walk  half  an 
hour  after  it. 


177.  Dr,  Smiths  Rare  Re^  for  T  Itch. 

TAKE  of  the  oyle  of  rofes  or  the  beft  oyle  of 
olives  an  ounce  &  half  rock  allome,  flour  of  brim- 
ftone  fait  of  prunella  of  each  2  fcruples,  Roman 
vitriol  a  fcruple  let  all  thefe  be  finely  powder'd  & 
well  mixt  with  ye  oyle  then  add  to  all  thefe  as  many 
drops  of  oyle  of  Rhodium  as  will  give  it  a  fweet 
fmell.  anoint  herewith  ye  wrifl:s  and  joints  aiFeded. 
Tis  an  excellent  good  one. 

178.  Aquamirabilis. 

TAKE  mellilotj  cubibs,  gallingall,  mace.  Ginger 
cloves  beat  all  thefe  to  fine  powder  fteep  them 
all  night  in  3  pints  of  the  beft  white  wine  one  pint  of 
aquavite  &  half  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  Sallendine 
being  pafte  all  night  &  ftill  it  off  next  morning  with 
a  foft  fire. 


179.  For  a  Sore  Mouth  or  Throat. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  milk  and  put  into  it  a  good 
handfull  of  woodbine  leaves  and  a  handfull  of 
brier  leaves  a  handfull  of  coUenbine  leaves  and  boyle 
all  thefe  till  half  be  confumed  when  it  is  almoft 
enough  pound  3  or  4  almonds  and  put  into  it  and  a 
good  fpoonfull  of  honey  of  rofes  &  when  tis  enough 
ftrain  it  &  drink  it  as  hot  as  you  can. 

67 


i8o.  For  the  Yellow  Jaundife, 

TAKE  horehound  2  ounces  hops  one  ounce 
egrimony  buglofs  roots  elecampane  roots  of  each 
half  a  dram  lignum  allocs  a  dram  &  half  boyle  all 
thefe  in  3  pints  of  white  wine  to  the  confumption  of 
a  3^  part  when  it  is  cold  but  the  liquor  from  the 
herbs  without  draining  it  but  if  the  party  be  feavor- 
ifh  then  boyle  the  herbs  in  half  hyflbp  water  &  half 
white  wine  &  do  as  you  did  before  take  5  fpoonfuUs 
of  this  drink  Sweetened  with  fine  Sugar  every  morn- 
ing fading  2  hours  after  it  &  as  much  every  night  y® 
laft  thing  going  to  bed. 

181.  Dr,  Burgejfes  Receipt  againfl  Y'  Plague. 

TAKE  3  pints  of  the  bed  mufkadine  or  malmefey 
boyle  therein  rue  and  Sage  of  each  one  handfull 
untill  a  pint  be  confumed  then  drain  out  the  herbs 
hard  then  fet  the  liquor  on  the  fire  again  and  put 
thereto  long  pepper  ginger  cutcheneale  or  grains  of 
each  an  ounce  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  nutmegs  all 
beaten  to  poweder  let  all  thefe  boyle  together  a  little 
then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  put  therein  an  ounce  of 
the  bed  methridate  2  ounces  of  y^  bed  treacle  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  angellicoe  water  keep  this  and 
your  life  above  all  worldly  Treafures  take  it  always 
warme  morning  and  evening  a  fpoonfull  at  a  time 
but  if  infedt'd  2  fpoonfuUs  this  is  good  againd  the 
plague  y^  fweting  difeafe,  the  fmallpox,  meafells  fur- 
fets  all  pedilent  didempers  and  feavours  ufed  as 
followeth  take  a  fpoonfull  of  it  when  you  fird  fall  fick 
&  fwet  3  hours  in  bed  after  it  &  then  carefully  taken 
out  of  it  if  they  are  dry  they  mud  drink  poflet  drink 
with  marygolds  boyled  in  it  &  drink  nothing  but 
caudles  &  warme  drink  at  other  times. 


68 


1 82.  A  Cordial!  Water  of  Dr.  Stevens. 

TAKE  ginger  cloves  mace  cinnamon  nutmegs 
gallingall  grains,  fennell  feed  annyfeeds  carraway 
feeds  groomwell  feeds  of  each  a  dram  liquorifli  4 
ounces  avens  cammomile,  pellitory  of  the  wall  balme 
red  rofes  garden  time  rofemary  lavender  flowers  wild 
marjerom  baflll  mints  fage  penny  royall  of  each  a 
handfuU  beat  y^  fpices  very  well  flired  the  herbs  and 
fteep  them  in  a  gallon  of  claret  wine  24  hours  then 
flill  it  in  a  glafs  ftill  or  Limbeck. 

183.  For  the  Sinking  of  the  Pallet. 

TAKE  a  dryed  walnut  and  pound  the  fame  and 
pour  therein  as  much  aquavite  as  you  make  a 
little  pap  thereof  and  fpred  it  on  a  little  cloth  or  tow 
and  aply  it  to  the  crown  of  the  patient  bind  the  fame 
fliiflly  thereon  and  it  imediately  aweighteth  the  pallet 
but  if  it  were  defcended  exceedingly  then  add  as 
much  frankinfence  as  the  walnut. 

184.  For  an  Ache  or  Bruife. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  Sage  one  pound  of  rue  half 
a  pound  of  wormwood  half  a  pound  of  bay  leaves 
cut  them  fmall  and  beat  them  in  a  morter  then  take 
3  pounds  of  Sheep  fewit  ran  from  the  caul  mince  it 
fmall  &  put  it  in  a  morter  to  the  herbs  beat  them 
together  till  the  fewit  be  not  feen  and  till  the  herbs 
be  all  of  one  colour  then  take  it  out  of  the  morter 
and  put  it  into  a  bafon  put  into  it  a  pottle  of  fallet 
oyle  and  work  it  with  your  hands  into  the  herbs  till 
it  be  all  of  one  foftnefs  then  put  it  into  an  earthen 
pot  &  cover  it  clofe  fo  keep  it  8  days  then  take  it  and 
feeth  it  in  a  brafs  pot  till  the  ftrength  of  the  herbs  be 
boyled  out  then  ftrain  it  through  a  canvas  cloth  and 
put  it  into  a  clean  earthen  pot  and  anoint  the  pain 
therewith  evening  and  morning  laying  thereto  a 
warme  linnen  cloth. 

69 


185.  A  Poultife  for  the  Kings  Evil, 

TAKE  a  bufhel  of  foxglove  flowers  the  green 
pluckt  from  them  and  ftamp  them  as  fmall  as 
poflibly  you  can  and  put  them  into  pipkin  never 
ufed  before  and  put  them  to  3  pound  of  butter  never 
falt'd  before  and  boyle  them  together  a  full  hour  and 
if  they  are  boyl'd  to  dry  put  more  butter  to  them  y" 
let  it  ftand  till  tis  cold  &  keep  it  for  ufe. 

186.  The  Imperiall  PFater. 

TAKE  bittony  fcabious  pimpernell,  dragons,  Tor- 
mentill  roots  &  all  burnet  leaves  and  knots  of 
each  4  handfuUs  pick  your  herbs  &  wafh  or  fcrape 
your  roots  lay  them  on  a  clean  table  3  days  to  wither 
then  chop  the  herbs  and  roots  together  and  put  them 
in  a  clean  earthen  pan  then  put  as  much  whitwine  to 
it  as  will  throughly  wet  the  herbs  &  let  it  ftand  24 
hours  clofe  covered  then  diftill  it  in  an  ordinary  ftill 
to  this  water  put  a  peck  of  burrage  or  buglos  flowers 
2  ounces  of  good  methridate  or  Treacle  and  3  penny 
worth  of  turmerick  roots  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
liquorifh  a  handfull  of  anyfeeds  a  little  fafFron  4 
ounces  of  hartfhorne  let  it  infufe  24  hours  then  diftill 
it  again  &  as  much  loafe  Sugar  into  y^  glafs  to  fweeten 
it  to  your  tafte. 

187.  The  Pal/ey  Water. 

TAKE  fage  rofemary  bittony  flowers  of  each  half 
a  handfull  burrage  and  burglafs  flowers  and 
flowers  of  lilly  of  the  valley  of  each  a  handfull  fteep 
thefe  in  fpirit  of  wine  mufl^adine  or  aquavite  each 
one  in  their  feafons  till  all  may  be  had  then  put  to 
them  balme  motherwort  fage  leaves,  leaves  of  orange 
trees  and  the  flowers  if  to  be  gott  of  each  one  ounce 
put  them  into  the  reft  and  as  many  Lavender  flowers 
ftript  from  the  ftalks  as  will  fill  a  gallon  glafs  fteep  all 

70 


thefe  6  weeks  or  i  months  then  diftill  them  In  a 
Limbeck  then  put  into  y®  water  citheron  peels  dry'd 
&  piony  feeds  of  each  6  drams  of  cinnamon  half  an 
ounce  nutmegs  and  mace  cardimums  cubibs  and 
yellow  fanders  of  each  half  an  ounce  lignum  alloes 
one  dram  make  all  thefe  into  powder  and  put  them 
into  the  diftilled  water  and  put  to  them  Jubebs  new 
and  good  half  a  pound,  the  ftones  taken  out  & 
cut  fmall  clofe  the  vefTel  very  well  with  a  double 
bladder  let  them  difgeft  6  weeks  then  ftrain  thefe 
hard  with  a  prefs  &  filterate  the  liquor  and  put 
thereunto  prepared  perl  Smaragdis  mufk  fafFron  of 
each  lo  grains  of  ambergreafe  one  fcruple  red  rofes 
well  dry'd  red  and  yellow  fanders  of  each  i  ounce 
hang  thefe  in  a  farfnet  bag  in  y®  water  ftop  it  clofe. 

1 8  8.  l!he  Vertues  of  the  Palfey  Water, 

IT  is  of  exceeding  vertue  in  all  founding  fits  in 
weaknefs  of  heart  decay  of  fpirrits  it  reftores  ipeech 
in  apoplexies  and  palfeys  helps  all  pains  of  y®  joints 
occafioned  by  cold,  and  bruifes  outwardly  bathed  and 
cloths  dipt  in  it  and  laid  to  the  place  it  Strengtheneth 
all  animall  and  natural  fpirits  &  cleareth  the  externall 
fences,  Strengtheneth  the  memory  reftoreth  loft  appe- 
tite helpeth  all  weaknefs  of  the  Stomach  being  both 
taken  inwardly  and  bathed  outwardly  it  taketh  away 
the  giddinefs  of  the  head,  it  helpeth  the  hearing, 
makes  a  pleafant  breath  reftores  the  loft  fpeech  helpeth 
all  cold,  diftempers  of  liver  and  the  begining  dropfey 
helps  all  cold  difeafes  of  the  mother,  in  Sum  none 
can  exprefs  the  vertues  of  this  water.  Take  bread 
crums  and  Sugar  of  each  a  like  quantity  wet  it  very 
well  with  this  water,  takeing  it  in  the  morning  fafting 
&  as  much  at  night  going  to  bed  if  need  is  but  if  a 
fit  of  the  dead  palfey  or  apoplexie  you  muft  give  as 
much  every  hour  to  reftore  fpeech. 

71 


189.  To  make  Veale  Coll  op  5  Jn"  Raifyes  way. 

TAKE  fat  and  leane  veale  fliced  thin  &  well  beaten 
with  the  back  of  a  knife  then  lard  them  if  you 
pleafe  put  2  anchoves,  nutmeg  grated  fome  pepper  & 
fait  into  the  frying  pan  with  your  meat  then  frye  it 
very  leafurely  in  frefh  butter  elfe  it  will  turn  to  oyle, 
when  it  is  enough  pour  away  the  butter  then  take  6 
yolks  of  eggs  well  beat  with  a  little  vinegar  then  have 
ibme  frefh  butter  ready  drawn  up  to  pour  into  your 
eggs  this  being  done  pour  it  all  into  your  frying  pan 
upon  your  meat  and  fo  fhake  and  tofs  and  mingle  it 
well  together  then  put  it  into  your  difh  fqueezing  in 
fome  juice  of  lemon  &  lay  fome  flices  over  it  &  ferve 
it  in  to  be  eaten  while  hot  befure  to  fry  the  meat  very 
leafurely  elfe  it  will  be  hard. 

190.  John  Rayjies  Beefe  Collops. 

TAKE  fat  and  lean  beefe  flice  it  thin  with  your 
minceing  knife  chop  it  tender  take  an  oynion  and 
quarter  it  and  fome  fweet  herbs  fhred,  fry  your  meat 
with  the  gravie  that  comes  out  of  it  and  half  a  pound 
of  frefh  butter  then  pour  off  that  gravie  from  it  and 
let  it  flew  in  a  difh  for  fauce  then  take  another  half 
pound  to  frye  up  your  meat  then  take  the  meat  clean 
out  of  the  lafl  butter  and  take  out  your  onyons  feafon 
it  with  fome  nutmegs  &  fait  before  you  put  in  the 
fauce  to  ye  meat  then  put  in  the  fauce  &  ferve  it  up 
with  lemon  as  the  foregoing  was  &  to  be  eaten  hot. 

191.  'The  Lady  Buttons  Melancholy  Water. 

TAKE  of  wall  Jilly  flowers  4  handfulls,  of  rofe- 
mary  flowers  3  handfulls  of  Damafke  Rofe  leaves 
&  cowflip  flowers  a  like  quantity  of  burrage  &  bugglos 
flowers  of  each  2  handfulls  a  like  quantity  of  prim- 
rofes  and  clove  Jilly  flowers  balme  leaves  and  pinks 
of  each   6  handfulls,  of  marygolds  2   handfulls  of 

72 


cinnamon  groflly  beaten  half  an  ounce  2  nutmegs 
3  pennyworth  of  englifh  fafFron  2  orange  peels  4 
ounces  of  blew  figs  Steep  them  in  Sack  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  as  you  add  flowers  add  Sack  when 
you  have  gotten  them  all  together  diftill  them  in  a 
cold  ftill  &  cover  them  in  the  ftill  with  Sack  &  when 
all  is  drawn  off  you  muft  put  into  your  water  before 
you  ufe  it  6  ounces  of  white  Sugar  Candie,  it  muft 
be  ftilled  with  a  foft  fire  or  your  water  will  be  y^ 
fmaller  it  is  good  for  any  heavinefs  of  fpirits  &  may 
be  given  to  weomen  in  travell. 

192.   "The  Purge  for  Winde, 

TAKE  a  Dram  of  rubarbe  and  half  as  much  Sena 
(if  eafy  to  worke)  otherwife  as  much  of  the  one 
as  the  other  half  a  fpoonfull  of  fweet  fennell  feed  the 
length  of  one  little  finger  in  liquorifh  tofed  abroad  a 
pint  of  white  wine  as  much  water  infufe  it  altogether 
&  take  half  a  pint  &  diffolve  in  it  an  ounce  of  manna, 
&  drink  it  when  you  have  ftrain'd  it  from  the  dregs, 
drink  a  fmall  half  pint  &  when  it  Grumbles  about 
half  an  hour  after  take  another  half  pint  before  you 
take  any  poflet  drink  when  it  works  you  may  drink 
poffet  as  with  other  phifick  &  eat  chick  or  hen  for 
dinner  if  you  like  Sirrop  of  rofes  better  you  may  ex- 
change the  manna  for  it  and  when  you  expedl  wormes 
change  y®  fennell  feeds  for  worme  feed  keep  warme 
in  the  taking. 

193.  A  -purge  for  Spleen  and  Winde. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  Sider  put  to  it  2  ounces  of  the 
roots  of  pollipodiume  of  the  oake,  one  ounce  of 
feynae,  one  ounce  of  anyfeeds  let  all  thefe  boyle  gently 
together  till  half  be  confumed  then  ftrain  it  well  out 
put  to  a  pint  a  pound  of  fugar  then  put  into  a  thin 
bag  thefe  fpices  one  fliced  nutmeg  the  like  quantity 
of  cloves  and  mace  &   a  lefs  quantity  of  mace  & 

73 


cinnamon  &  4  pennyworth  of  faffron  then  let  it  ftand 
fimmering  over  ye  fire  3  hours  till  it  become  a  firrop 
of  w^^  you  muft  take  a  large  fpoonfull  in  a  quarter  of 
pint  of  pofTet  drink  &  drink  pofTet  drink  in  ye 
workeing. 

194.   I'd  make  a  Pretious  Ointment  for  y^  Eyes. 

TAKE  4  ounces  of  may  butter  2  ounces  of  vergins 
wax  2  fcruples  of  Putty  fully  prepared  2  fcruples 
of  camphirr  4  fpoonfulls  of  red  or  white  rofe  water, 
melt  the  butter  and  wax  &  then  put  in  all  the  materialls 
and  befure  to  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  be  quite  cold 
when  there  is  occafion  to  ufe  it  take  a  little  of  it  & 
put  it  in  the  palme  of  your  hand  &  when  foftned  with 
your  finger  anoint  ye  outfide  of  your  eyes  &  temples 
laft  at  night  and  wafh  them  with  white  rofe  water 
next  morning. 

195.  'To  make  Currant  Wine. 

LET  your  fruit  be  very  ripe  and  gather'd  on  a  dry 
day  and  to  every  3  pound  of  currants  good  weight 
with  their  ftalks  and  ftems  on  take  one  quart  of  water 
and  one  pound  of  fugar  then  put  your  water  to  your 
fruit  and  with  your  hand  fqueeze  them  through  a 
hair  five  then  put  your  fugar  to  your  juice  &  when  it 
is  well  mingled  together  and  the  fugar  diflblved  then 
put  it  into  a  dry  Sweet  vefiel  fill  your  vefifel  quite  full 
&  let  it  worke  a  week  &  then  ftop  it  up  and  not  tap 
it  under  10  weeks  then  draw  it  out  of  the  veflel  as 
you  drink  or  bottle  it  which  you  pleafe. 

196.  Mrs.  Herbert  a  Midwife  her  Receipt  againfi 
Mif carrying. 

TAKE  oake  buds  before  full  blown  and  ftill  them 
in  a  cold  ftill  3  times  over  put  on  your  firft  water 
on  frefh  buds  next  water  on  ye  3*^  frefh  buds  w^^  will 
then  be  ftrong  enough  fo  keeping  for  ufe  and  let  the 

74 


woman  that  doubts  mifcarriage  if  at  any  certain  time 
let  her  begin  to  drink  this  water  a  month  before  her 
ufiall  time  of  mifcarrying  and  fo  drink  it  2  months 
together  about  5  fpoonfulls  every  morning  failing  an 
hour  after  it  at  any  time  of  the  day  and  then  reft  but 
on  any  fright  or  Longing  or  any  other  occafion  whilft 
with  child  fo  as  may  give  a  fear  of  mifcarrying  this 
water  may  be  taken  at  any  time  of  the  day  again  &  thus 
diftilled  twill  hold  its  vertues  very  effedually  2  years. 

197.  Mr  John  AJhfields  Re^  againfl  a  Cold. 

AN  ounce  of  conferva  of  red  rofes  of  dyafcordium 
the  quantity  of  a  nutmeg  one  fpoonfuU  of  the 
Sirrop  of  poppeys  and  3  drops  of  the  Spirrit  of  vitriol 
all  thefe  well  mixt  and  take  morn:  &  evening  the 
quantity  of  a  nutmeg  faft  2  hours  after  it. 

198.  ^he  Black  Plaijler  good  for  Sprains  Aches  Wens 
Sores  new  or  old, 

TAKE  3  quarters  of  a  pound  and  better  of  pale 
yellow  vergins  wax  and  a  pint  of  Sallet  oyle 
mingle  both  thefe  together  the  wax  being  iliced  thin 
in  a  fair  brafs  bafon  or  pan  then  take  half  a  pound  of 
the  beft  white  ledd  in  fine  powder  then  take  the  oyle 
and  the  wax  from  the  fire  and  let  it  coole  a  little  then 
put  in  ye  ledd  leafurely  and  ftir  them  together  then 
fet  it  over  the  fire  and  boyle  it  half  an  hour  then  take 
it  from  the  fire  and  to  it  put  2  ounces  of  frankinfence 
and  2  ounces  of  maftick  both  finely  powdered  2  ounces 
of  mirrh  2  ounces  of  obliven  in  fine  powder  fet  your 
pan  into  another  for  fear  it  fhould  run  over  when  all 
the  ingredients  are  in  Stir  it  till  it  hath  done  rifing, 
fet  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boyle  half  an  hour  more, 
keep  ftirring  it  all  the  time  then  take  it  from  the  fire 
and  put  in  4  ounces  of  Camphire  in  powder  then  fet 
it  on  again  &  boyle  it  till  tis  black  then  make  it  up  in 
rowles  oyleing  your  hands  y®  older  the  better. 

IS 


199-   '^0  make  Sack  thin  when  it  is  Ropy, 

TAKE  to  20  gallons  of  fack  i  pound  &  half  burnt 
aiiome  2  fpoonfulls  of  bayfalt  beat  all  this  together 
half  an  hour  &  then  put  it  into  your  veffell  &  fo  let 
it  ftand  a  week  before  you  perfe  it. 

200.  Againft  the  Stone  in  y'  Kidneys  or  Bladder. 

TAKE  oyle  refined  and  mix  with  it  Sugar  and 
juice  of  Lemons  it  is  faid  to  diflblve  the  ftone  in 
the  bladder  to  my  Lord  Savill. 

201.   Dr.  Butlers  Powder  againft  the  Stone. 

TAKE  nutmeg  and  fugar  refined  well  beaten  and 
mixt    together  fo  take    a  fpoonfull   of  it  every 
morning  in  a  little  quantity  of  white  wine. 

202.  For  the  Goute, 

TAKE  raifons  of  the  Sun  beaten  to  a  conferve  & 
fpread  upon  white  foft  leather  laying  it  to  y^ 
greeneft  place  frefb  and  frefh  as  you  find  it  dry  but  it 
need  not  till  it  be  quite  dry.    probatum. 

203.  For  a  Sore  'Throat, 

GARGLE  it  well  when  you  go  to  bed  with  allome 
pofTet  drink  and  if  very  fore  towards  a  quincey 
then  lay  y®  curds  warme  to  your  Throat.   Probatum. 

204.  For  a  Cold, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  milk  boyle  in  it  a  large  onion  and 
at  night  when  you  go  to  bed  take  out  your  onion 
put  thereto  2  or  3  fpoonfulls  of  rofewater  fweeten  it 
either  with  Sugar  or  honey  of  rofes  &  fo  drink  it 
warme  in  your  bed  3  nights  together  forbareing  your 
fupper  thofe  nights  you  take  it.    probatum. 

76 


205.   For  the  Files  inwardly. 

TAKE  pilewort  leaves  and  roots  with  the  flowers 
of  Elder  buds  the  like  quantity  chopp  them  fmall 
and  boyle  them  in  hogs  Lard  till  it  looks  green  over 
a  gentle  fire  then  ftrain  it  and  put  in  frejfh  herbs  fo 
do  till  it  is  of  a  very  deep  green  fl:rain  it  and  keep  it 
for  your  ufe  take  fome  mutton  fewit  &  mix  with  the 
ointment  and  make  it  into  fuppofitors. 

206.  A  Glifter  for  the  Files  inwardly. 

MAKE  water  into  a  warme  pot  &  put  it  into  a 
glifter  bag  take  it  prefently  before  it  be  cold  you 
take  one  of  thefe  glifters  every  other  day  and  when 
you  do  not  you  muft  ufe  the  fuppofiter  but  if  you  are 
in  great  pain  you  may  ufe  them  at  any  time  for  they 
do  not  worke  if  you  boyle  pilewort  in  broth  or  grewell 
it  will  do  much  good,  if  the  pain  be  violent  take 
2  quarts  of  fcumme  milk  put  in  a  good  many  turnips 
fliced  and  a  great  deal  of  the  inner  rine  of  Elder  boyle 
them  together  2  hours  and  pour  it  into  a  clofe  ftool 
boyleing  hot  and  fet  over  it  as  hot  as  you  can  poflibly 
endure  it  this  cures  ye  pain  be  it  never  fo  violent  if 
often  bath'd  with  it  &  twice  a  day  apply'd  hot  to  ye 
place. 

207.  How  to  dry  Flowers. 

TAKE  fingle  pinks  and  take  ye  leaves  out  of  ye 
huflcs  and  cut  y^  fomewhat  Long  leaving  fome 
of  ye  white  to  ye  leaves  then  put  them  into  a  flat 
glafs  wherein  you  have  mingled  half  a  fpoonfuU  of 
Aquafortis  with  1 2  fpoonfulls  of  water  and  when  the 
leaves  have  layne  in  the  water  half  an  hour  or  more 
take  them  out  one  by  one  and  lay  them  on  a  paper 
y^  right  fide  down  not  to  touch  one  another  and  after 
an  hour  or  2  when  the  water  is  well  dryed  up  (as  it 
will  if  the  paper  be  laide  on  a  woollen  cloth)  then 
ftrow  them  over  with  ^no,  dry  fand  till  they  be  all 

77 


cover'd  fo  let  them  lye  a  fortnight  in  a  place  where 
the  fun  comes  in,  in  which  time  they  will  be  dry  and 
ftifF  then  take  them  off  the  fire  one  by  one  fhaking 
oiF  the  fand  and  wipe  them  between  your  fingers  lay 
them  in  boxes  till  the  winter  each  colour  by  them- 
felves  and  then  bind  them  up  together  by  the  white 
part  of  the  leafe  that  remains  till  they  be  of  what 
bignefs  you  pleafe  and  fo  put  them  into  the  green 
hufk  which  muft  be  kept  for  them,  pickt  early  in  the 
year  they  will  keep  the  better  takeing  the  natural 
flowers  out  of  them,  rowle  a  little  piece  of  paper  up 
and  fill  the  hufk  with  it  lay  them  alfo  in  fand  till  they 
be  dry  ufe  no  water  to  them  when  you  put  your 
flowers  into  the  hufk  faften  them  with  a  private  ftick 
by  ye  green  filk  you  bind  them  up  withall  with  a  fine 
needle  at  the  bottom  of  the  hufk.  So  many  feverall 
colours  as  you  have  muft  be  put  in  feverall  glaffes  of 
water  or  the  colours  will  not  be  perfed,  Rofe  buds 
are  only  laid  in  water  2  or  3  hours  and  laid  out  on  a 
woolen  cloth  to  dry  without  fand,  for  marygolds, 
primrofes,  or  larke  heels  or  the  like  are  only  in  fand 
without  water.  Experience  muft  be  ye  beft  M'^^  to 
teach  this  art. 

208.  An  Aprovd  Diet  Drink  to  he  taken  every  Spring 
and  Fall  from  the  Firft  of  September  to  the 
\^*  of  O^fober  ^  from  y^  V*  of  April  to  the 
Lafi. 

TAKE  4  gallons  of  the  ftrongeft  wort  boyle  it  to 
3  gallons  tun  it  up  with  good  ftore  of  barm  that 
it  may  work  well  then  make  a  Canvafe  bag  with  a 
heazel  ftick  thruft  through  it  and  fo  faften  the  bag  to 
the  ftick  that  it  may  not  go  within  3  inches  of  the 
bottom  of  the  barrell  nor  float  on  the  top  put  thefe 
following  ingredients  into  the  bag  6  ounces  of  fcena 
6  ounces  of  polipodium  of  the  oake  7  ounces  of  bay- 
berrys  huld  2  ounces  of  anyfeeds  3  ounces  of  aifhen 

78 


keys  bruifed  2  ounces  of  farfafrage  wood,  2  ounces  of 
faldonella,  2  drams  of  rubarb,  let  all  thefe  be  groflly 
powdered  except  the  fcena,  and  when  it  hath  done 
workeing  ftop  it  up  clofe  leaving  fome  barm  on  the 
top  in  3  or  4  days  you  may  drink  of  it  half  a  pint  in 
the  morning  and  3  quarters  of  a  pint  in  the  evening, 
drink  a  draught  of  brothe  an  hour  before  dinner  & 
when  you  go  to  bed  keep  yourfelfe  warme  dureing 
the  time  y®  more  you  exercife  your  body  ye  more 
twill  work.    Probatum  eft. 

209.  For  Proud  Fle/h. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  Sheeps  Sewit  finely  fhred 
and  melt  it  then  ftrain  it  and  put  half  a  pound  of 
rozin  finely  beaten  when  the  rozin  is  melted  put  in 
3  penny  worth  of  turpentine  and  boyle  it  a  little  to- 
gether Keep  ftiring  it;  then  pour  it  into  cold  water 
and  keep  beating  of  it  (changeing  y®  water)  till  tis 
white. 

210.  ^0  dry  a  Hamm  the  heft  Way. 

LAY  your  ham  before  a  Good  fire  turning  it  fome- 
times  till  it  is  very  hot  then  pound  2  penny  worth 
of  Salt  peeter  very  fmall  &  rub  on  it  &  cover  it  over 
and  under  with  half  a  peck  of  bay  fait  which  has  been 
heat  very  hot  in  a  frying  pan  till  it  has  almoft  done 
fnappering  &  pour  it  hot  on  the  ham  when  the  ham  is 
hot  let  it  Lye  in  the  faltpeeter  a  fortnight  y^  fmoke  it. 

211.  IlO  wajh  Poynt  or  any  Sort  of  Lace, 

MAKE  you  a  board  of  well  feafoned  Dry  Deale, 
of  3  boards  in  bredth  well  Poynted,  and  as  long 
as  anything  you  define  to  wafh  on  it  naile  or  brace  on 
a  flaxen  Cloth  very  tight  few  your  poynt  and  lace  by 
the  purl  and  footing  very  ftreight  on  the  cloth,  then 
few  or  pin  very  ftreight  over  it  a  thin  canvas  or  bolter 
cloth,  Soap  it  all  over  &  pounce  it  w*^  a  brufh  and 

79 


warme  water  (but  gently)  till  your  Ladders  come 
clean  y"  rince  it  well  and  ftarch  it  (with  white  ftarch 
of  a  thicknefs  juft  to  Jelly  when  it  is  cold)  with  a 
fpunge  but  leave  not  much  on  it  you  muft  dry  it 
quick  (if  you  cannot  abroad)  by  the  fire  for  fear  the 
board  fhould  ftain  when  it  is  very  dry  pull  off  your 
upper  cloth  haftily  to  raife  a  nap  on  it,  then  rip  it  off. 
Grey  lace  muft  be  ftiffned  with  Iceingglafs  which  has 
been  afoke  over  night  &  boyle  thin. 

212,  J  Diet  Drink  for  the  Kings  Evil, 

TAKE  a  handfull  of  egrimony  one  handfuU  of 
wood  Bittony  2  ounces  of  Lignum  vite;  2  ounces 
of  fcena  2  ounces  of  Sarfaparella,  2  penny  worth  of 
farfafras,  half  an  ounce  of  rubarb  2  penny  worth  of 
Hermidatis,  Pethimony  and  Stigados  of  each  one 
penny  worth  fennell  feeds  and  Annyfeeds  of  each  one 
ounce,  a  pound  of  raifons  of  the  Sun,  2  pound  of 
Englifh  liquorifh,  wafh  the  herbs,  Stone  the  raifons, 
Scrape  and  flice  the  reft  and  bruife  the  feeds  and  put 
them  into  2  gallons  of  fair  conduit  water  and  let  it 
fimmer  half  a  day  till  it  comes  to  one  gallon.  Strain 
it  and  when  cold  bottle  it  ftoping  it  clofe  and  when 
you  ufe  it  your  Diet  muft  be  only  dry  bread  &  raifons 
of  the  Sun  and  mutton  roafted  dry  without  bafting. 
Drink  mornings  &  afternoons  &  at  night  about  a 
Dozen  fpoonfulls  at  a  time.    Probatum  eft. 

213.  'To  make  Counterfeit  Nants  Wine, 

TAKE  1 2  pounds  of  malliga  raifons  and  fteep  them 
in  8  gallons  of  water  about  10  days  then  barrell 
up  the  liquor  and  put  to  it  a  gallon  of  the  juice  of 
elder  berrys  fet  it  in  fome  warme  place  that  it  may 
work  and  when  tis  fine  bottle  it  up  and  drink  it  half 
a  year  old  half  the  quantity  of  frefti  reafons  put  to  the 
firft  &  half  the  quantity  of  juice  will  make  a  fmaller 
fort  of  wine  and  may  be  drank  in  a  little  time. 

80 


214-  A  Varnifli  for  Deal  Floor  d  Rooms. 

TAKE  Indian  red  a  quarter  of  a  pound  half  a 
pound  of  yellow  oaker  let  them  be  ground  by  a 
grinder  of  colours  as  for  painting,  put  thefe  together 
and  mix  them  thin  with  linfeed  oyle  and  put  fome 
drying  oyle  into  it  wafh  the  rooms  with  a  cloth. 

215.  'To  make  an  Oatmeal  Pudding  very  good. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  great  oatmeal  fet  it  on  the  fire  in 
a  pint  and  half  of  good  milk  or  cream  3  fpoonfuUs 
of  rofe  water  a  large  flake  of  mace  when  tis  well  boyled 
put  it  into  an  earthen  pan  and  let  fl:and  all  night  next 
day  put  to  it  1  eggs  a  pound  of  beef  fewit  a  little 
canded  citheron  &  orange  peel  (if  you  like  it)  fweeten 
it  to  your  tafte  and  put  to  it  a  cold  cufliard  made  as 
followeth  Take  a  pint  of  fweet  cream,  boyle  it  with 
mace  put  to  it  ye  yolks  of  6  eggs  &  2  whites  ftir  it 
till  it  be  cold  add  a  little  more  rofewater  put  fome  bits 
of  marrow  on  top  and  let  it  ftand  a  little  in  a  moderate 
oven  fo  Serve  it  in. 

216.  For  Mother  Fitts  in  a  Woman. 

GET  the  after  birth  of  a  woman  with  her  firft 
child  take  oflF  the  ftring  then  put  it  into  a  pot 
with  3  nutmegs  fhaved  thin  a  pinte  of  white  wine  a 
hand  full  of  fweet  time  put  thefe  into  an  oven  to  dry 
it  till  it  will  powder  and  fearch  it  through  a  fine  five. 
Give  as  much  every  morning  and  night  as  will  lye  on 
a  6  pence  in  a  Spoonfull  or  2  of  Sack  take  it  Spring 
and  fall  for  3  changes  of  the  moon  3  days  before  the 
new  moon  &  3  days  after  &  3  days  before  the  full. 

217.  The  Milk  Water. 

BALME  fpearmints,  wormwood,  of  each  6  hand- 
fulls  1 2  handfuUs  of  cardus  all  Shred  lay  thefe  all 
night  to  fl:eep  in  6  quarts  of  new  milk  and  the  next 

81  G 


morning  draw  it  off.  Ye  Lady  Downs  adds  angelicoe 
&  to  every  ftill  full  an  ounce  of  liquorifh  &  fweet 
fennell  feeds. 

2 1 8 .  For  Beafnefs. 

PUT  ground  Ivy  one  leafe  into  each  ear  rowle  it 
up  but  not  too  hard  put  it  in  frefh  morning  and 
evenings. 

219.  J.  Water  for  any  Sore  or  Sore  Eyes. 

TAKE  2  ounces  of  allume  one  ounce  of  white 
copperis,  half  an  ounce  of  bayfalt,  boyle  thefe  in  2 
quarts  of  runing  water  till  half  be  wafted  and  when 
tis  cold  put  into  the  bottle  with  it  one  penny  worth 
of  camphire  then  ft  op  it  clofe  and  twill  keep  7  years. 

220.  For  Convultion  Fits, 

TAKE  fingle  piony  roots  take  of  the  out  fide  and 
cut  them  as  thin  as  Groats  Dry  them  on  a  fheet 
of  paper  in  a  fire  pan,  pound  and  fearch  them  fine  and 
give  to  a  child  as  much  as  will  lay  on  a  filver  2  pence 
in  a  fpoonfull  of  fmall  beer  and  give  another  after  it 
give  this  twice  a  day,  3  days  after  the  change  and  full 
of  the  moon,  and  if  continue  make  a  IfTue  in  the  arme 
if  the  convultion  be  in  the  head  Take  a  grain  of 
mufk  divide  it  into  2  parts  put  it  into  a  little  linnet 
and  tye  it  up  in  fine  rags  and  put  them  into  the  ears 
and  let  it  ftay  there  a  month.  Take  featherfew  and 
wormwood  of  each  a  like  quantity  ftamp  them  and 
take  the  juice  put  to  it  a  little  Crab  vinegar  and  fhave 
in  a  little  aflafetita  wet  2  pieces  of  old  cloth  in  this 
and  put  them  over  ye  ears  &  let  them  come  out  over  ye 
face  to  reach  the  nofe  that  the  child  may  always 
fmell  it. 

221.  Another  for  Convultions, 

TAKE  a  Cat  of  a  quarter  old  or  younger  (for  a 
boy  a  She  cat  for  a  Girl  a  he  cat)  cut  off  the  head 
and  hold  the  head  in  one  hand  and  the  body  in  the 

82 


other  over  a  bafon  that  you  may  catch  the  blood  that 
comes  out  of  both  parts,  then  take  the  breaft  milk  of 
a  healthy  woman  (if  for  a  boy  a  girls  milk  and  if  for 
a  girl  a  boys  milk)  then  take  a  little  of  the  blood 
alone  and  anoint  the  ftomach  with  it,  then  put  2 
fpoonfulls  of  ye  milk  and  mix  it  well  with  the  reft  of 
the  blood,  then  fet  it  on  a  Chaffendifh  of  coals  till  tis 
warme  then  take  it  off  and  ftrain  it  and  give  the  child 
as  much  as  it  will  drink  and  faft  an  hour  after  it  give 
this  but  once  and  that  as  foon  as  a  fit  is  paft  let  the 
child  have  a  little  aflafetita  ty'd  in  a  rag  &  hung  about 
the  neck,  dip  it  in  Crab  vinegar  often. 

222.  "The  Water  for  the  Fits, 

TAKE  rue  feverfew  wormwood  of  each  a  like 
quantity  and  now  &  then  when  fainty  or  in  a  fitt 
fweeten  it  with  Sirrop  of  J  illy  flowrs  give  2  or  3 
fpoonfulls. 

223.  For  very  Jirong  Fitts  or  Fitts  in  Great  People, 

TAKE  the  outlandifh  fingle  piony  roots  and  cut  off 
y®  outfide  of  them  then  ilice  them  as  thin  as 
poffible  and  dry  them  juft  enough  to  be  made  into 
fine  powder  give  to  a  child  as  much  as  will  lye  on  a 
2  pence  and  to  a  great  body  twice  as  much  3  days 
before  the  full  and  3  days  after  the  fame  time  before 
and  after  the  change  in  a  fpoonfull  of  black  cherry 
water  and  at  any  time  if  the  fits  be  ftrong  you  may 
give  it  after  the  fit  is  juft  over  and  give  2  fpoonfulls 
of  the  water  after  it. 

224.   Another  for  Convultions  if  that  fhould  faile, 

TAKE  the  miflleto  that  grows  on  an  oake  (if  you 
can  get  outlandifh  tis  the  beft)  the  leaves  of  it 
you  muft  dry  on  a  fheet  of  paper  make  it  into  very 
fine  powder  and  give  it  by  the  former  method  but 
you  may  change  the  black  cherry  water  and  give  it  in 

83 


water  from  green  miffleto  if  you  can  get  it.  befure 
let  not  thofe  y*  are  troubled  with  fits  eat  anything  hot 
that  is  made  of  flour  as  pudding  or  hot  bread  nor  any 
thing  of  that  kind.  Let  them  drink  almond  drink  to 
a  quart  of  water  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  blancht 
almonds  ftamp  them  very  fine  then  pour  ye  water 
upon  them,  then  pound  them  again  then  ftrain  y® 
water  through  them  again  do  so  3  or  4  times  till  all 
the  goodnefs  is  gone  then  fet  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it 
boyle  a  little  then  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  (you  muft 
fcumme  it)  Take  3  or  4  fpoonfulls  at  a  time  they 
may  eat  eggs  or  pottatoes  or  any  fuch  light  food.  Let 
them  eat  alfo  as  followeth  Steep  a  good  handfull  of 
great  oatmeal  (jufl  bruifed)  in  a  quart  of  water  the 
next  morning  ftrain  it  out  and  boyle  it  to  a  jelly. 

225.  For  Cankers  in  Man  Woman  or  Child, 

TAKE  a  new  laid  ^gg  break  the  little  end  pour  out 
all  the  infide  pull  out  the  bottom  fkin  and  turn 
the  ^gg  down  to  let  out  all  ye  water  then  take  half 
the  yolke  of  the  ^gg  one  fpoonfuU  of  honey  if  for  a 
child  5  tops  but  for  a  great  body  7  buds  of  Southern- 
wood fhred  as  fmall  as  you  can,  grate  in  as  much 
ginger  as  will  lye  on  a  groate  beat  all  thefe  together 
till  they  look  whitifti  then  boyle  it  in  y*^  egfhell  fet  in 
the  embers  ftiring  it  with  a  flat  fcuve  and  when  the 
Southernwood  turns  brown  then  ftrow  in  as  much 
common  allom  as  the  bignefs  of  a  hazle  nut  pounded 
fine  let  it  boyle  a  little  longer  then  take  it  off  and  let 
it  coole.  put  it  cold  into  the  mouth  if  in  the  throat 
fwallow  a  little  (but  dont  rub  the  mouth)  y®  i^*  thing 
in  ye  morning  faft  almoft  an  hour  after  it. 

226.  7*0  draw  up  the  Pallet, 

TAKE  aquavite  q*^'  white  2  fpoonfulls  thicken  it 
with  grated  nutmeg  and  put  fome  of  it  pretty 
thick  juft  on  the  clofe  of  the  head  behind  &  wind  the 

84 


locks  round  a  bodkin  over  it  to  keep  it  faft  on  (and 
not  remove  in  2  or  3  days)  &  ftrike  up  the  head  and 
temples  with  it  if  the  pallet  be  inflamed  bleed  in  the 
arme. 

227.  A  Water  for  Fits, 

VERVAIN    feverfew   wormwood  of  each  a  like 
quantity  diftill  it  and  take  3  or  4  fpoonfulls  at  a 
time  fweeten'd  with  Sirrop  of  Cloves. 

228.  For  a  Purge  that  works  upward. 

TAKE  1 2  bay  leaves  and  rift  them  a  little  lemon 
peel  a  few  cloves  a  little  fliced  nutmegs  boyle 
thefe  in  vinegar  and  let  the  perfon  hold  his  mouth 
open  over  the  fteem  of  it  this  will  ftop  any  vomiting. 

229.  A  ftrong  Vomit  for  the  Falling  Sicknefs, 

TAKE  fox  glove  leaves  and  ye  leaves  of  oake  fern 
of  each  a  handfuU  boyle  them  in  a  quart  of  ale 
divide  it  into  3  parts  and  take  it  3  mornings  as  vomits 
are  ordered. 

230.  A  Pomatum  for  the  Face, 

TAKE  2  ounces  of  the  oyle  of  benn  half  an  ounce 
of  Spermacitty  i  ounce  of  Deers  fewit  if  you  ufe 
all  Spermacitty  you  muft  have  an  ounce  &  half. 

231.  A  Peroral  Drink  for  a  Cough, 

TAKE  2  quarts  of  middle  beer  maiden  hair  hifop 
and  rofemary  of  each  a  handfull  half  a  pound  of 
fliced  landfiggs  a  pennyworth  of  annyfeeds  bruifed  and 
a  pennyworth  of  liquorifli  fliced  boyle  thefe  together 
till  it  comes  to  a  quart  then  ftrain  it  and  fweeten  it 
with  an  ounce  of  white  Sugar  Candie  take  4  fpoonfulls 
in  the  morning  and  as  much  at  night  fhaking  the 
bottle  before  you  pour  it  out. 

85 


232.  To  make  Black  Cherry  Brandy. 

TAKE  a  dozen  pound  of  cherrys  pickt  from  the 
ftalks  and  bruifed  put  a  gallon  and  half  of  brandy 
3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar,  cloves, 
mace  and  cinnamon  of  each  a  pennyworth  i  nutmeg 
fliced  put  it  into  a  great  glafs  or  runlet  and  let  it  ftand 
clofe  ftopt  3  weeks  then  draw  it  off  as  much  as  will  run 
clear  if  you  pleafe  put  up  more  brandy  to  ye  reft  ac- 
cording to  your  judgement  and  ftop  it  up  clofe  again. 

233.  For  a  Loofenefs  in  a  Lyeing  Inn. 

TAKE  3  nutmegs  and  grate  them  and  an  ounce  of 
loafe  Sugar  put  thefe  into  a  quart  of  Spring  water 
and  boyle  it  to  a  pint  and  give  2  or  3  fpoonfuUs  at  a 
time. 

234.  For  the  Pal/ey  and  Giddine/s  in  the  Head. 

MAKE  conferve  of  Rofemary  flowers  Bittony 
flowers  Sage  flowers  feverally  begin  with  the 
rofemary  Take  the  bignefs  of  a  large  nutmeg  at  a  time 
laft  at  night  and  firft  in  the  morning  for  3  days  y^ 
reft  3  days  and  do  ye  like  by  the  bittony  then  reft  3 
days  again  and  in  like  manner  take  the  Sage  and  fo 
go  round  again  as  often  as  is  occafion  for  it  with  thefe 
or  at  any  other  time  drink  fome  of  Dr  Stephens 
water  to  be  found  at  ye  182  Red:. 

235.  For  the  Wind  in  the  Blader. 

TAKE  9  bees  pound  them  and  put  them  to  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  ale  ftir  it  well  together  and 
ftrain  it  fweeten  it  with  honey  give  it  the  afflided 
perfons  to  drink  they  muft  till  it  has  worked. 

236.  An  Ointment  for  the  Gout  or  any  Swelling, 

TAKE  cammomile  tops  and  liverwort  (after  the 
woollynefs  is  cropt  ojfF)  of  each  a  good  handful! 
wafli  them  clean  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth  mince  and 

86 


bruife  them  then  boyle  them  in  a  pipkin  or  bellfkillet 
in  a  quart  of  fweet  cream  till  it  comes  to  butter  then 
ftrain  out  ye  herbs  and  keep  it  in  a  pot  clofe  covered 
anoint  any  place  that  is  afflidled  this  muft  be  made  in 
ye  month  of  may. 

237.  A  Stagg  Powder  for  Fainty  or  Hot  Bloomes  ^ 
Tremblings  at  Heart, 

TAKE  the  griflle  or  bone  that  grows  in  the  heart 
of  a  Stag  dry  it  on  paper  then  powder  and  fearch 
it  fine  and  take  as  much  of  it  as  will  lye  on  a  3  pence 
in  half  a  wine  glafs  of  Sack  3  mornings  failing,  faft 
an  hour  after  it. 

238.   For  Deafne/s, 

TAKE  the  Ivy  that  have  white  ftrings  in  it  and 
pound  it  put  fome  of  it  into  the  ear  and  let  it  lay 
there  all  night. 

239.  For  an  Impofthume  or  Gathering, 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  Sallet  oyle  and  a  good  hand- 
full  of  cammomile  pound  it  and  put  it  into  the 
oyle  in  an  earthen  pot  and  fet  it  in  a  oven  or  the 
chimney  corner  and  let  it  ftand  there  48  hours  then 
ftrain  it  out  and  anoint  the  place  that  is  fwelled  keep 
it  in  a  bottle  clofe  ftopt  if  any  inward  impofthume 
take  Venice  treacle  methridate  and  leafe  gold  mixt  to- 
gether take  y®  quantity  of  a  fmall  nutmeg  ye  laft  thing 
at  night  for  4  or  5  nights  together. 

240.  For  a  Sore  I'hroat. 

TAKE  tops  of  rofemary  fennell  fage  marygolds  with 
the  black  middles  finkfoins  of  each  a  like  quantity 
a  good  handful!  altogether,  a  little  cammomile  boyle 
it  in  a  quart  of  ale  till  tis  very  ftrong  of  the  herbs  then 
ftrain  it  and  fweeten  with  honey  or  Sugar,  you  may 
boyle  a  piece  of  gold  or  a  gold  Ring  if  you  pleafe  in  it. 

87 


241.  For  the  Stone  Collick^  or  Gravell  in  ye  Kidneys, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  white  wine  or  renifh  and  burn  it, 
take  moufe-ear  pellitory  of  the  wall,  and  nettle 
tops  with  the  feeds  and  a  few  Juniper  berrys  boyle 
thefe  in  Spring  water  till  all  the  vertue  is  out  then 
ftrain  it  and  put  the  water  to  the  wine  and  bottle  it  up, 
drink  a  wine  glafs  (fweetened  with  Sirrop  of  elder 
berrys  and  De-althea  &  horfe  raddifh  and  fqueez  in 
fome  juice  of  lemon)  once  a  day.    Approved  D"^  May. 

242.  For  ye  Same  when  ye  Per/on  is  much  weakened 

by  fain,    Dr  May, 

CONSERVE  of  rofes  purflane  water,  plantain 
water  of  each  2  ounces,  Sugar  of  rofes  one  ounce, 
Red  correll,  blood  ftone,  bole-armeniack,  Brafigelata 
of  each  half  a  dram,  trofes  of  amber  one  fcruple,  oyle 
of  vitriol  5  drops  whites  of  eggs  beat  to  water  firrop  of 
yarrow,  Comfry,  Shepard  pouch,  Bittony  of  each  an 
ounce  all  mixt. 

243.   To  make  a  Fume  to  fetch  up  the  Mouth, 

TAKE  rofemary  fennell  fage,  marrygolds,  Cammo- 
mile  and  balme  and  finkfoin  a  few  cloves  bruifed, 
and  the  rine  of  a  lemon  boyle  all  thefe  in  milk  and 
water  when  tis  very  ftrong  put  it  into  a  clofe  mugg 
and  put  a  cloth  over  the  head  and  put  a  gold  ring  be- 
tween the  teeth  to  keep  the  mouth  open  and  if  the 
throat  be  very  bad  throw  little  bits  of  butter  into  the 
mouth  then  hold  the  mugg  with  the  ftuff  as  hot  as 
you  can  fuffer  under  your  mouth  and  hold  it  till  cold 
and  try  to  fleep ;  and  befure  to  keep  the  head  warme 
after  it. 

244.  For  Scalds  Burns  or  Childblains. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  deers  or  mutton  fewit  pick 
it  clean  and  melt  it   Take  a  handfuU  of  the  Ivy 
with  white  ftreaks  pick  it  clean  and  fhred  it  fmall  and 

88 


take  one  fpoonfuU  of  goofe  dung  let  it  on  the  fire 
and  boyle  it  till  the  leaf  will  break  Dry  and  crimp 
them  then  ftrain  it  and  keep  it  for  ufe  in  a  gallypot. 

245.  A  Foultije  for  Burns  or  Scaulds. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  milk  2  fpoonfulls  of  grat'd 
white  bread  take  Singreen  and  cut  off  the  red 
edge  and  pound  it  and  take  2  fpoonfulls  of  the  juice 
and  put  into  ye  milk  and  bread  and  a  fpoonfull  of 
damafk  rofe  leaves  fhred  mixt  and  let  it  boyle  alto- 
gether very  well  to  the ,  thicknefs  of  a  poultife  then 
take  it  off  the  fire  &  put  into  it  a  fpoonfull  of  civill 
or  Sallet  oyle.  this  poultife  muft  be  laid  upon  ye 
foregoing  ointment  till  ye  flefh  is  grown  even  &  then 
leave  off  this  poultife  and  ufe  only  y®  ointment  to 
fkin  it. 

If  the  finews  are  injured  take  Snails  with  their 
houfe  &  prick  them  whence  will  come  a  water  with 
which  anoint  y®  wound  with  a  feather  before  you  lay 
on  the  poultife,  change  y®  poultice  twice  a  day. 

If  any  watery  humour  feeds  ye  wound  then  make 
a  plaifter  with  y®  white  of  an  ^gg  wheat  flour  bole- 
armeniack  &  vinegar  and  lay  it  above  the  wound. 

To  bring  the  fkin  to  the  couler  again  Take  a  hand- 
full  of  parfley  roots  wafht  &  fcraped  very  clean  & 
fhred  very  fmall  boyle  them  in  half  a  pint  of  cream 
and  anoint  therewith. 

If  the  Scauld  or  burn  is  on  the  head  when  the 
wound  is  well  anoint  it  with  honey  to  make  ye  hair 
grow  again. 

246.  T^o  make  Pidgeons  increafe. 

TAKE  2  gallons  of  water  in  a  pot  or  kittle  and 
hang  it  over  the  fire,  and  put  in  half  a  peck  of 
Salt,  one  peck  of  fetches  2  pound  of  comming  feed 
and  3  ounces  of  annyfeeds  let  thefe  continue  over  the 
fire  till  the  begin  to  boyle,  then  ftrain  the  feeds  from 

89 


the  liquor  and  diflblve  in  the  liquor  2  ounces  of 
AfTafetita,  and  pour  in  3  ounces  of  oyle  of  Spike  and 
a  pint  of  aquavite  w*^  this  liquor  wafh  your  dove  or 
pigion  holes  and  caft  y^  feeds  on  a  table  in  the  houfe 
for  the  pidgeons  to  feed  on  you  may  ufe  this  imme- 
diately after  they  have  done  breeding  &  a  month 
before  they  begin  to  breed. 

247.  For  the  Palfey, 

TAKE  half  a  handfuU  of  Bittony  and  boyle  it  in 
a  pint  of  milk  wrift  the  herb  before  you  put  it 
in  that  it  may  be  very  ftrong  of  it,  then  turn  it  with 
beer  and  drink  a  draught  of  it  fometimes  and  take 
rofemary  and  bittony  of  each  a  like  quantity  ftill 
them  and  put  2  fpoonfulls  of  the  water  in  a  glafs  of 
beer  and  drink  it  every  morning  fafting  or  fometimes 
give  as  much  powder  of  bittony  dryed  and  fearched 
as  will  lye  on  a  groat  in  a  glafs  of  canary,  or  a  draught 
of  y®  forementioned  liquor. 

248.  'To  keep  the  Skin  from  breaking  where  y''  Bead 
Palfey  is, 

TAKE  2  quarts  of  cream  and  one  pound  of  mutton 
fewit  pickt  clean  and  fhred  fmall,  boyle  thefe 
together  to  an  oyle  anoint  a  cloth  with  it  &  lay  on 
Searcloth-wife  if  it  be  on  a  part  convenient,  but  if 
the  whole  fide  is  dead,  you  muft  have  enough  dipt 
to  Lay  on. 

249.   To  draw  out  Fire  when  tis  jufi  burnt. 

AT  firft  lay  on  Guzzle  Dirt  let  it  lay  on  an  hour 
then  waili  it  oiF,  cut  the  blifter  and  lay  on  a 
plaifter  made  with  a  fpoonfuU  of  honey  and  the 
quantity  of  a  fmall  nutmeg  of  black  foap  mixt  well 
together,  let  it  Lay  on  12  hours  &  then  lay  on  the 
poultife  at  y^  245  Receit. 

90 


250.  For  the  Stone. 

DISTILL    3    pints  of  white  wine,  4  pound  of 
onions  2  pound  of  Sugar. 

251.  For  the  biteing  of  a  Madd  Dog, 

TAKE  primrofe  leaves  and  roots  box  leaves  and 
pennyroyall  of  each  a  like  quantity  and  half  as 
much  rue  cut  fmall  put  them  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  warm  milk,  give  it  to  dogs,  Sheep,  or  Cows. 

252.  For  a  Poifoned  Bog, 

TAKE  half  an  ounce  of  long  pepper  half  an  ounce 
of  madder  an  ounce  of  white  Elebore  pounded 
very  fmall  together  put  a  3^  part  of  it  into  a  pint  of 
warme  milk  and  Give  at  once  as  much  of  the  powder 
of  white  Elebore  as  will  lye  on  a  6  pence  in  half  a 
pint  of  cow  hot  milk  it  is  a  prefervative  for  dogs, 
pigs,  or  Cows,  or  any  beaft  bit  with  a  mad  dog. 

253.  To  Roft  a  Leg  of  Mutton, 

TAKE  a  leg  of  mutton  cut  out  all  the  infide  and 
(leave  the  fkin  whole)  chop  it  fmall  with  fewit 
and  fome  bacon  cut  in  long  flips,  feafon  it  w*^  Salt 
and  nutmeg  Cloves  and  mace.  Sweet  marjorum  & 
time  mincet  very  fmall  put  your  meat  into  your  leg 
of  mutton  again  fo  roft  it  make  fome  of  it  into  balls 
&  fawcidges,  take  a  loine  of  mutton  half  rofted,  cut 
it  in  fteaks  and  ftew  it  in  water  put  in  fome  wine  and 
the  gravey,  feafon  it  high  with  pepper  and  fait,  put  in 
an  onion  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs  a  little  Shallot 
a  fpoonfuU  or  2  of  vinegar.  Some  orange  and  lemon 
fome  brown  buds  &  pickled  mufhrooms  Take  up 
your  meat  thicken  it  with  the  yolk  of  an  ^g<g  or  2 
put  in  a  little  Sweet  butter  &  fome  Capers  fo  difh  it 
puting  the  leg  of  mutton  in  the  middle  of  the  haifh. 

91 


254-  '^0  make  an  Orange  Pudding. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blancht  beat  them 
in  a  morter  with  a  little  rofewater  Take  a  quart 
of  cream  and  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Sugar,  and  the 
yolks  of  10  eggs  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
yellow  rines  of  3  oranges  mince't  fmall,  mix  all  thefe 
together  lay  very  good  puff  paft  in  the  bottom  of  the 
difh  and  cover  over  the  pudding  w*^  the  fame  3 
quarters  of  an  hour  will  bake  it.  Some  add  muike  or 
Ambergreefe. 

255.  'To  make  a  Tanfie. 

TAKE  16  eggs  and  but  6  whites  beat  them  very 
well  put  into  them  fome  Sugar  and  Sack,  then 
beat  them  again  then  put  a  pint  of  cream  boyling 
Coulour  it  with  the  juice  of  Spinnage,  green  wheat,  or 
prime  rofe  leaves  mix  it  well  and  fweeten  it  to  your 
tafte  fo  let  it  ftand  till  you  frye  it  when  firft  courfe  is 
ferved  in  then  frye  it  with  fweet  butter,  it  muft  be 
ftir'd  and  fry'd  very  tender,  &  when  enough  difh  it 
Strew  on  Sugar  &  Garnifh  it  with  orange  or  lemon. 

256.  Sauce  for  Boy  led  Fi/h  as  follows, 

TAKE  Sampire  and  capers  a  like  quantity  and  a 
little  fcalded  parfley  and  mince  it  all  together, 
mix  it  with  white  wine  wherein  anchovife  has  been 
diflblved,  a  piece  of  butter  a  little  nutmeg  &  a  blade 
or  2  of  mace  Scauld  it  together  pour  it  on  the  fiih  & 
Garnifh  it  with  lemon  and  barberrys. 

257.   To  make  a  ^akeing  Pudding, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  cream  boyle  a  nutmeg  cut  in 
pieces  in  it  and  a  good  quantity  of  mace,  8  eggs 
and  4  whites  beat  them  and  then  mix  them  with  the 
cream  with  a  fpoonfull  of  grated  bread  or  bifkit  &  a 
fpoonfull  of  fine  flour  a  little  fait,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  Sugar,  flir  it  well  together  till  tis  of  the  thicknefs  of 

92 


batter  take  a  thick  bag  and  wet  it  and  rub  it  with 
flour  tye  it  up  round  and  put  it  into  a  pot  of  boyleing 
water  &  turn  it  up  and  down  at  the  i^^  boyling  that 
it  may  not  fettle  thicker  in  one  place  than  another  fo 
let  it  boyle  an  hour  the  Saufe  is  white  wine  butter  and 
Sugar  &  nutmeg. 

258.  Pickle  for  Brawn  to  loft  a  Quarter  of  a  Year, 

TAKE  9  gallons  of  water  2  handfulls  of  bayfalt, 
or  other  fait  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  mace,  white 
pepper  of  each  an  ounce  &  of  Jamaico  pepper,  put  it 
all  in  whole  boyle  it  an  hour  boyle  it  in  a  quart  of 
milk  Scumme  it  clean  as  it  boyles,  leave  the  fpice  in 
the  bottom  for  the  liquor  to  feed  on  &  keep  it  fweet 
let  it  ftand  to  cool  till  the  next  day  and  when  cold  put 
in  y®  brawn  let  it  ftand  in  a  cool  place. 

259.  To  flew  Eels. 

CUT  them  into  pieces  as  long  as  your  finger  put 
them  into  a  flagon  without  water  feafon  them  with 
pepper  and  fait  and  nutmeg  and  large  mace  a  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs  &  an  onion  or  2  fet  the  flagon  in  a 
Skillet  of  water  over  the  fire  fo  let  it  ftue  fhake  the 
flagon  fometimes  foftly  when  they  are  half  ftew'd  put 
in  a  fpoonfuU  or  2  of  white  wine,  Sider  or  vinegar  & 
when  ready  put  a  good  piece  of  butter  into  them  and 
fliake  them  in  ye  flagon  then  difli  them  upon  fippets 
you  may  put  in  flirimps  &  oyfters  if  you  like  it. 

260.  To  bake  a  Bullocks  Head. 

BREAKE  all  the  bones  when  it  is  flit  then  feafon 
it  well  w*^  pepper  and  Salt  put  it  into  a  pot  with 
fome  water  (&  a  faget  of  herbs  if  you  pleafe)  and 
bake  it  with  houfliold  bread  while  it  is  hot  take  out 
all  the  bones  &  place  it  very  clofe  in  a  fmall  earthen 
pot  that  is  very  deep,  and  pour  in  fome  of  the  liquor 

93 


on  it  (whilft  hot)  prefs  it  clofe  and  when  cold  take  it 
out  &  ferve  it  at  2*^  courfe  with  muftard  and  fugar 
Garnifh  it  w*^  lawrell  leaves  &  curies  of  the  Vine. 

261.  A  Goojberry  Fool. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  Goofeberrys  boyle  them  and 
ftrain  them  take  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  beat  them 
and  put  them  together  a  little  mace  fweeten  it  w**^ 
Sugar  to  your  tafte  Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  tis  thick 
enough. 

262.  Tb  drejs  So  ale  5  a  fine  way. 

TAKE  a  large  pair  of  Soales  and  flay  them  on 
both  fides  lay  them  in  a  Stow  pan  with  fome 
butter,  claret  wine  and  anchovife.  Stew  them  clofe 
cover'd  and  ferve  them  to  table  with  orange  or 
lemon. 

263.  A  Pafiy  Cruft, 

A  PECK  of  flour  4  pound  of  butter  and  8  eggs 
and  whites.   Rub  the  butter  in  breake  in  the  eggs 
and  mix  it  with  cold  water. 

264.  PuffPafte. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  flour  and  2  eggs  mix  it  with  cold 
water  then  rowl  in  a  pound  of  butter  and  fl:rew 
flour  between,  beat  it  with  a  rowling  pin  &  rowle  it 
3  or  4  times  over. 

265.  Sauce  for  Boy  led  Mutton. 

PUT  a  good  handfull  of  capers  into  near  a  pint  of 
claret  wine  and  fome  nutmeg  let  it  fl:ew  on  coles 
&  fl:ir  in  fome  butter. 

266.  Sauce  for  Roft;  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 

BEAT  the  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs  very  well,  put  into 
them  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  whole 
onion  a  blade  of  mace  a  little  fait,  fl:ir  thefe  over  a 

94 


chaffendifh  of  coles  till  tis  pretty  thick  fave  the  gravey 
of  the  mutton  &  put  into  it  a  little  Samphire  and 
capers,  let  it  not  boyle  after  ye  capers  are  in,  take  out 
the  onion  and  pour  the  fauce  on  the  mutton  and 
ferve  it  in. 

267.  A  White  Pot. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  new  milk  boyle  in  it  a  nutmeg 
quartered  and  cinnamon  take  out  the  whole  fpice 
and  put  in  fome  flicet  manchet  and  cover  it  clofe  till 
tis  cold  then  breake  the  bread  with  a  Spoon  put  in 
fome  eggs  fugar  &  fait  and  a  piece  of  butter,  the  oven 
muft  be  no  hotter  than  for  a  cuftard,  or  you  may  bake 
it  on  a  chaffendifh  of  coles  leaveing  embers  on  an  iron 
plate  on  y®  top. 

268.  A  Sauce  for  all  Stew'd  Meats, 

TAKE  all  forts  of  fweet  herbs  fome  onions  Shred 
them  all  together  fmall  Set  it  on  the  fire  in  a 
Skillet  of  water  and  vargife  and  fait  and  mace  when  it 
is  boyled  almoft  away  put  the  yolks  of  raw  eggs  and 
thicken  it  over  the  fire  and  keep  fliring  then  flir  in  a 
good  piece  of  butter  this  fauce  is  proper  (alfo)  for 
mutton,  lamb,  the  head  and  purtenances,  or  veal 
roft'd  or  boyled. 

269,   'To  make  Almond  Puddings, 

WASH  half  a  pound  of  almonds  in  2  or  3  waters 
then  blanch  them  in  cold  water  in  which  they 
have  lain  in  all  night  then  beat  them  very  fmall  puting 
now  and  then  a  Spoonfull  of  rofewater  to  keep  them 
from  oyling,  then  put  them  into  a  quart  of  fweet 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  1 2  eggs  well  beaten,  3  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  as  much  butter  the 
rine  of  2  lemons  pared  very  thin  and  mincet  very 
fmall  ftir  all  thefe  together  &  bake  it  under  puff 
pafte  or  you  may  beat  the  butter  with  the  almonds. 

95 


270.   'To  make  Puddings  4  in  a  Di/h, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  good  Tweet  cream  &  make  pap 
with  it  &  fine  flour  pour  it  forth  and  ftir  in  6 
eggs  fweeten  it  with  Sugar  and  a  little  Salt  fome 
grated  nutmeg,  a  little  mace,  fome  rofewater,  a  little 
grat'd  bread,  couler  one  of  the  puddings  with  fpin- 
nage  and  put  currants  in  another,  &  2  plain,  put  them 
in  wooden  difhes  being  firfl  butter'd  and  tye  a  flour'd 
cloth  over  them  put  them  into  boyling  water  and  let 
them  boyle  an  hour  ftick  them  (when  they  are  difh't) 
the  green  one  with  rofemary  leaves  thick  the  plain 
ones  w*^  blancht  almonds  &  that  with  fruit  with  canded 
orange  peel,  y^  fauce  butter  and  fugar  and  Sack  &  a 
little  nutmeg  you  may  put  in  fome  rofemary  if  you 
pleafe. 

271.   To  ftew  Pidgeons, 

TAKE  them  and  cut  them  in  halfs  and  feafon  them 
with  pepper  and  fait  put  the  gibblets  in  the  ftew- 
ing,  fry  6  or  7  rafhers  of  bacon  &  put  into  ye  ftewing 
liquor  and  all  ftew  them  in  Sider  ale  and  water  a  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs  2  onions  a  piece  of  butter  and  ferve 
it  up. 

272.    To  Boyle  a  Powder  d  Haunch  of  Venifon, 

BOYLE  it  with  a  piece  of  beef  when  tis  half  boyled 
ftufit  with  time,  marjerome.  Savory,  and  Penny- 
royall  mincet  fmall  with  a  little  fewit  then  boyle  it 
till  tis  ready  then  lay  in  boyled  turneps  in  the  difh 
cut  in  round  flices  then  lay  in  the  venifon  and  ftrew 
it  with  pepper. 

273.   To  Roft  a  Carpe, 

OPEN  and  wafh  it  clean.  Strip  time  pariley,  fweet 
marjerom  of  each  half  a  handfull  mince  them  and 
incorporate  them  in  half  a  pound  or  3  quarters  of 
butter  mould  it  up  and  put  it  in  the  carps  belly  &  few 

96 


it  up  but  firft  feafon  the  belly  with  pepper  fait  and 
mace  and  a  little  ginger  bind  him  on  with  pack  thread 
faft  to  the  fpit,  bafte  it  firft  with  butter  afterwards  with 
his  own  driping  very  often,  when  you  feel  it  tender 
under  the  fkin  it  is  enough  for  fauce  take  the  driping  of 
him  &  y®  herbs  out  of  his  belly  and  3  or  4  fpoon- 
fulls  of  white  wine  boyle  it  together  and  ferve  it  up. 

274.   A  Chicken  Pye  w*^  Sweet  Seafoning. 

TAKE  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  mace  nutmeg,  a 
little  pepper  a  fmall  quantity  of  Sugar,  2  ounces  of 
Suckets  and  marrow,  dates  lemon  peel  grapes  or 
green  goofberrys  according  to  ye  feafon  of  the  year  fo 
bake  them  and  when  it  comes  out  the  oven  cut 
open  the  lid  and  pour  in  a  caudle  made  with  half  a 
pint  of  white  wine  a  piece  of  butter  the  yolks  of  2  or 
3  ^ggs  ftir'd  over  the  fire  till  tis  thick. 

275.  To  coller  Eels, 

SKIN  the  eels  and  cut  them  open  take  out  the  back 
bone  Take  nutmeg  cloves  &  mace  beaten  &  fome 
fait  and  ftrew  along  ye  eel  &  lay  another  eel  upon 
that,  then  ftrew  more  &  lay  on  another  then  rowle  it 
up  round  like  a  coller  of  brawn  tye  it  in  a  clean  cloth 
boyle  it  till  it  be  tender  in  water  and  fait  and  a  little 
vinegar  keep  it  in  the  fame  liquor  a  week. 

276.  To  pickle  Trout s  or  Salmon, 

DRAW  them  at  the  gills,  wafti  them  clean  and  dry 
them  in  a  cloth  then  lay  them  in  a  difti  at  length 
&  pour  vinegar  all  over  them  then  ftrow  fait  over 
them  (not  to  much)  let  them  ftand  in  that  pickle  an 
hour  or  2  then  take  water  enough  to  make  a  pickle 
to  cover  them  and  put  into  it  a  reafonable  quantity  of 
ginger,  pepper  cloves  and  mace,  with  a  bundle  of 
fweet  herbs  let  it  boyle  half  an  hour  then  put  in  your 
fi(h  vinegar  &  fait  altogether  fo  let  it  boyle  till  tis 

97  H 


enough,  if  the  pickle  be  not  fliarpe  enough  add  more 
vinegar,  and  make  it  to  your  tafte  as  foon  as  tis  ready- 
take  out  the  fifh  &  when  the  pickle  is  cold  pour  it  on 
them,  this  way  will  make  them  eat  good  and  firme 
and  look  very  well  when  they  are  in  feafon. 

277.  A  Lumber  Pye, 

WHEN  you  have  any  cold  veale  Turkey  Capon 
or  rabbit  a  fmall  quantity  will  ferve  mince  it 
very  fmall.  put  about  twice  as  much  fewit  minced  fine 
grate  a  penny  loafe  &  put  into  it  mince  a  few  fweet 
herbs  as  marjorum,  penny  royall,  Spinnage  &c.,  feafon 
it  with  nutmegs  Sugar  cinnamon  a  little  Salt,  rofe 
water  a  little  verjuice  5  or  6  eggs  fome  currants  worke 
it  up  altogether  between  your  hand  then  put  it  into 
the  pye,  and  put  upon  the  meat  marrow  dates,  lemon 
and  orange  peels  canded  and  citheron  and  Suckets 
(licet  lemon  and  fome  barberry s  when  it  is  baket  fill 
it  up  with  a  good  liquor  made  of  half  a  pint  of  vergife 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  butter  and  fugar  and  thickened 
with  eggs  like  Caudle  y®  bread  will  foake  a  great  deal. 

278.  'To  make  Spani/h  Bijkits, 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  10  eggs  and  the  whites  of  5 
and  a  pound  of  fift*d  loafe  Sugar  half  a  fpoonfuU  of 
orange  flower  water  beat  all  thefe  together  3  quarters 
of  an  hour  then  fhake  in  1 2  ounces  of  fine  flour  and 
beat  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  more,  have  the  pans 
ready  butter'd  &  almofl:  fill  them  let  not  the  oven  be 
to  hot  very  little  will  bake  them  and  Aide  them  out 
before  the  pans  are  cold. 

279.  To  pot  Hare. 

FIRST  take  all  the  meat  clean  from  the  bones  and 
beat  it  very  well  as  to  draw  out  all  the  finews  and 
fl:rings   then  feafon   it  with  cloves  mace  and  white 

98 


pepper  pounded  very  fine  there  muft  be  as  much 
again  pepper  as  other  fpices  then  mixt  it  with  a  fuf- 
ficient  quantity  of  fait,  feafon  the  meat  and  work  it 
in  your  hands  then  have  ready  fome  thin  flices  of  fat 
bacon  free  from  rafty  and  take  a  narrow  high  crutch 
and  put  a  little  butter  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  then 
a  laying  of  flices  of  bacon  then  a  laying  of  hare  then 
bacon,  fo  do  till  all  is  in  the  pot,  lay  good  ftore  of 
butter  upon  top  and  pafte  it  very  clofe  let  it  be  clofe 
ftopt  in  the  oven  3  hours,  then  prefs  it  into  your 
other  pot  with  the  back  of  a  fpoon  very  Clofe  puting 
over  it  6  fpoonfulls  of  the  butter  it  was  baked  in  So 
let  it  ftand  till  the  next  morning  then  fill  it  up  with 
the  fame  butter  if  that  be  not  enough  add  more  the 
pot  muft  be  dry'd  at  y®  fire. 

280.  To  wajh  Gloves. 

TAKE  yolkes  of  eggs  and  wheat  flour  and  rub 
over  the  gloves  like  foap  then  take  a  hard  brufti 
and  warme  water  and  lay  them  on  a  board  and  fcowre 
them  well  then  take  whiteing  and  water  and  mix  it 
as  thick  as  batter  and  dip  your  gloves  in  it  and  when 
they  are  half  dry  draw  them  on  your  hands  and  when 
they  are  dry  beat  out  the  duft  and  Gum  them  with 
gum  dragon  with  a  fpunge  the  gum  muft  be  fteep'd 
with  cold  water  the  Coulours  are  Spanifti  brown  oaker, 
umber  and  red  ledd. 


281.  Eye  Water, 

RED  rofe  water  and  white  rofe  water  of  each  a 
penny  worth,  2  penny  worth  of  powder  of  Putty 
a  quarter  as  much  white  Sugar  candy  ftiake  it  alto- 
gether in  a  bottle  &  drop  it  into  y^  eyes  night  and 
mornings. 


99 


282.  A  Rich  Cordiall, 

TWO  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar  a  quart  of 
fountain  water  3  quarts  of  the  beft  brandy  a  drame 
of  oyle  of  cloves,  an  ounce  &  half  of  fpirit  of  Saffron, 
6  grains  of  mufk,  faffron  2  fcruples  ambergreefe  2 
grains  put  the  water  and  Sugar  over  the  fire  till  well 
difTolved  and  fcummed  then  flrain  it  into  a  gallon 
glafs  with  the  brandy  mix  the  other  ingredients  in  a 
flone  morter  very  well  tye  up  the  Saffron  in  one  little 
bag  and  the  mufk  in  another  and  let  them  hang  into 
the  cordial,  which  will  be  of  an  amber  Coulour. 

283.  ^he  Lady  AJhfields  Angellot  Cheefe. 

TAKE  4  quarts  of  milk  warme  from  the  cow, 
Stroakings  is  befts,  or  2  quarts  of  cream,  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  runnet  or  a  little  more,  &  when  it  is  all 
together  flir  it  well  and  let  it  ftand  till  tis  come  very 
hard  then  take  it  up  without  breaking  of  it  and  put 
it  into  your  vate  very  foftly  when  it  is  all  in  let  it 
fland  till  night  if  made  in  the  morning  then  put  a 
little  fait  at  each  end  and  fo  turn  it  twice  a  day  falting 
it  every  time  you  turn  it  for  a  week  or  ten  days  then 
flip  it  out  of  the  vate  and  pin  a  cloth  about  it  till  its 
coat  be  hardned  when  hardned  wipe  off  the  fait  and 
butter  them  to  keep. 

284.  Angellot  Cheefe, 

TO  a  gallon  of  new  milk  2  quarts  of  fweet  cream 
2  or  3  fpoonfuUs  of  quick  runnet  Stir  it  well  to- 
gether, let  the  curd  when  come  into  y^  vate  without 
breaking  it  will  be  all  day  filling,  when  in  the  vate  let 
it  fland  2  or  3  days  turning  it  twice  a  day  falting  it  at 
each  end  lightly  and  2  hours  after  wipe  off  the  fait 
with  a  dry  cloth  flip  them  out  w*^out  breaking  if 
tender  bfnd  them  in  cloths  you  muffc  have  your  milk 
only  warm  from  the  cow  your  cream  cold  run  it  in  a 
paile  jufl  wafht  with  hot  water  turn  not  the  vate  till 

100 


the  next  morning,  if  you  leave  any  fait  on  twill  corrupt 
the  cheefe  let  them  dry  in  a  wet  cloth  chang'd  every 
morning  when  they  are  very  hard  fpred  fweet  butter 
over  them,  keep  them  in  fweet  wheat  ftraw  change 
them  once  a  week. 

285.  A  Thick  Cheefe, 

TAKE  1 8  gallons  of  new  milk  2  or  3  quarts  of 
cream  put  a  pint  of  good  quick  runnet  when  it 
is  come  gether  it  together  with  your  hands  drain  out 
all  the  whey  and  walh  it  with  warme  water  not  to  hot 
cut  the  curd  very  fmall  and  ftrewing  it  about  a  pint 
of  fait  ftrewing  it  in  as  you  cut  it  then  ftrain  away  the 
water  then  put  it  into  your  vates  thin  ones  firft  to 
prefs  out  the  water  well  then  put  the  curd  out  into 
your  thick  vate  befure  to  fill  it  full  that  it  prefs  clofe 
let  it  ftand  in  the  prefs  2  days  and  2  nights,  when  well 
preff'd  rub  fait  on  the  outfide  as  on  other  cheefes, 
when  hard  if  any  chink  be  in  them  rub  them  with 
frefh  fweet  butter  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  a  year  old 
you  may  eat  them. 

286.  Almond  Butter, 

TAKE  a  difh  of  butter  boyle  2  eggs  rare  put  the 
yolkes  to  the  butter  take  30  blancht  almonds 
beaten  fine  with  rofe  water  or  orange  flower  water 
Stir  them  in  the  butter  ftrain  them  through  a  Cloth 
with  a  fit  quantity  of  Sugar. 

287.  T!o  Fat  Foultrey, 

FOR  pullets  or  Capons  take  barley  meale  3  parts 
and  figg  duft  of  oats  one  part  and  make  crams  of 
it  in  pafte  feeding  them  twice  or  thrice  a  day  &  for 
drink  let  it  not  be  water,  but  broken  beer  mixt  with 
the  powd^  of  chalke  and  fowe  up  their  vent  holes  with  a 
needle  &  thread  this  fats  them  in  14  days  therefore 
kill  them  or  they  will  die  w*^  fat. 

lOI 


2  88.  6^  William  Buttons  for  thoje  w^^  make  Bloody 
Water, 

TAKE  of  red  fingle  hoUiehocks  leaves  and  ftill 
them  in  a  rofe  or  ordinary  ftill  (the  leaves  of  the 
flower)  and  of  this  water  drink  4  or  5  fpoonfuUs 
then  take  of  conferve  of  white  lyllies,  made  of  the 
leaves  of  the  water  lillies  the  quantity  of  a  walnut  a 
week  or  10  days  as  you  fhall  find  good  in  it  more  or 
fewer  days  by  him  Probatum. 

289.  A  Purge  of  the  Lady  Binions. 

TAKE  3  drams  of  rubarbe  and  put  in  it  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  white  wine  feting  it  a  ftoop  12 
hours  then  take  it  out  of  the  embers  in  w^^  you  muft 
fet  it  to  fteep  and  let  it  cool  a  little  then  put  to  it  one 
ounce  of  Sirrop  of  rofes  if  eafie  to  worke  if  hard  one 
ounce  and  half  and  drink  of  it  blood  warme  &  when 
it  works  take  a  drink  of  poflet  drink  between  every 
workeing. 

290.  Another  of  hers  for  the  Green  Sicknefs. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  capers  i  pound  of  the  beft 
currants  you  can  get  boyle  them  in  a  quart  & 
half  of  ftrong  ale  till  half  be  confumed  and  take  of 
this  a  fpoonfuU  of  each,  capers,  currants,  &  liquor  & 
ftir  after  it. 

291.  Mr,  Walldrons  ye  Surgeons  Cure  for  Green 
Wounds, 

ROMAN  vitriol  apply 'd  not  to  the  wound  but  to 
the  blood  of  the  wound  wiped  on  a  clean  linnen 
cloth  then  put  your  vitriol  on  the  blood  ye  laft  is 
beft  and  when  heal'd  by  this  applications,  bind  your 
cloth  wrap'd  up  as  w°  you  drefT'd  y^  blood)  to  a  ftone 
&  thrown  into  fome  well  or  deep  water,  then  fhall  ye 
wound  no  more  trouble  you. 

102 


292.   Mrs.  Hellen  Parry s  Receipte  for  a  Cold, 

TAKE  ye  faireft  orange  you  can  get  roft  it  at  ye 
fire  then  put  thereto  a  pretty  quantity  of  Sallet 
oyle  fweeten  it  with  Sugar  candie  or  Sugar  drinking 
it  i^*  in  ye  morning  &  laft  at  night. 

293.  An  Electuary  for  the  Green  Sickne/s  or  Pain 

in  ye  Stomach. 

TAKE  half  an  ounce  of  rubarbe  flice  it  and  beat  it 
very  well,  then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  blew 
currants  wafh  them  &  dry  them  very  well  in  a  courfe 
cloth  then  beat  them  alfo  very  well,  then  take  2  penny 
worth  of  englifh  fafFron  dry  it  and  rubed  very  fmall 
then  mix  all  thefe  together  &  beat  it  till  it  comes 
to  a  conferve,  fo  puting  it  in  your  gallypot  &  keep  it 
for  your  ufe  taking  of  it  the  quantity  of  a  walnut  4 
or  5  mornings  together  failing  eat  not  in  2  hours 
after  it  but  walk  on  it  add  wormfeed  &  liquorifh  in 
powders. 

294.  ^0  Recover  or  Strengthen  a  Weak  Eye  Sight, 

TAKE  of  cloves  nutmegs,  Grains  of  each  half  an 
ounce  of  englifh  Saffron  2  penny  worth  of  eye- 
bright  leaves  dryed  in  the  Sun  a  handfuU  make  all 
thefe  into  fine  powder  then  take  8  or  9  raifons  of  y® 
Sun,  flone  them,  then  put  into  every  of  them  as 
much  of  the  powder  as  will  lye  on  a  penny  eating 
them  in  a  morning  faffcing  not  eating  an  hour  after. 

295.   Mr  Gafkins  Cordial  Powder. 

TAKE  feed  pearle,  redd  coral,  crabs  eyes  harts 
home  white  amber  of  each  a  like  quantity  being 
all  finely  beaten  and  fearcht,  then  take  of  the  powder 
of  the  black  tips  of  crabs  claws  as  much  of  all  the  reft 
of  the  powders  as  finely  beaten  and  fearcht  then  mix 
all  thefe  very  well  together  &  make  it  up  into  balls 

103 


with  jelly  of  harts  home,  wherein  you  muft  infufe  a 
little  faffron  fo  leting  them  lye  untill  they  be  dry 
which  powder  being  finely  fcrap'd  may  be  taken  lo 
grains  in  a  fpoonfull  of  oraggons  water  wafhing  it 
down  with  another  Spoonfull  of  the  fame  water  but  to 
a  young  child  feaven  grains  are  fufficient. 

The  vertues  are  many  as  followeth,  firft  to  prevent 
Smallpox  and  put  for  the  difeafe  it  recovereth  a  Con- 
fumption  if  conftantly  taken  a  good  fpace.  it  is  moft 
excellent  in  all  violent  feavors  burnings  and  againft 
all  forts  of  poyfon  it  ferveth  to  extirpate  and  mafter 
the  venome  of  ye  peftilence  when  no  bexra  lemia 
Sigillata  Beazers  Stone  or  unicorns  home  though 
taken  in  a  double  proportion  can  match  or  fhew  its 
Selfe  equivalent  it  is  very  good  for  the  pafTions  of 
the  heart  and  for  that  moft  Singular  probatum  it  alfo 
helpeth  ye  quotidian  &  double  tertian  agues  the 
quartain  I  cannot  much  commend  it  for  only  it  com- 
forts the  fpirits  and  mittigates  the  fits  but  for  all 
other  agues  very  good  being  taken  in  time  it  pre- 
venteth  a  man  from  all  difeafes  and  infections  and 
continues  their  health  and  viggour  working  without 
any  viollence  to  nature  and  in  agues  without  any 
fenfible  motion  for  it  provoketh  not  to  purge  or 
vomit  nor  give  any  offence  at  all  to  ye  herb  fmell  or 
ftomach. 

296.   The  Lady  Marquefe  Hear  if  or  ds  Re^  for 
all  Agues. 

TAKE  halfe  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  the  quantity 
of  a  walnut  of  London  or  other  treacle  put  them 
both  together  into  a  porringer  and  ftir  it  till  it  tis  dif- 
folved  then  put  them  into  a  half  pint  pot  and  cover 
it  clofe  feting  it  in  embers  that  may  but  keep  it  warme 
the  fpace  of  5  hours  then  when  you  go  to  take  it 
oft  opening  the  Lidd  let  it  firft  fimber  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  upon  a  very  gentle  fire  then  take  it  off  the  fire 

104 


and  ftir  it  a  little  then  cover  it  &  take  it  blood 
warme  when  you  go  to  bed  the  night  before  your  fit 
comes  for  your  fupper  you  may  eat  fome  light  fpoon 
meat  it  will  caufe  you  to  fweat  all  night  but  muft  not 
be  taken  till  after  the  3d  fit.    probatum. 

297.  An  Excellent  Powder  to  Cure  a  Befe5five  Memo- 
rie  Gidiene/s  in  ye  Head  or  any  other  Dijlemper 
in  the  Brain, 

TAKE  3  ounces  of  feana  leaves  zedoane  commine 
parfley  and  dill  feeds  of  each  one  ounce  ginger 
half  an  ounce  cloves  nutmegs  gallingall  pimpernell 
roots  fage  rue  vallerian  Annyfeeds  of  each  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  pound  all  thefe  fmall  then  mix  them  very 
well  together  with  4  ounces  of  white  fugar  candie 
finely  beaten  of  this  you  muft  take  mornings  and 
evenings  a  dram  at  a  time  drying  your  herb  well 
before  you  make  it  this  is  ye  Lady  Wroughtons  with 
the  following  ointment. 

298.  An  Ointment  for  the  Giddinefs  in  the  Head  or 
any  other  Dijlemper  in  Te  Brain  or  Deffe^l  in 
the  Memorie. 

TAKE  white  lillyes  colwort  leaves  wild  balme  of 
each  one  dram  being  pounded  put  them  into  a 
pot  with  2  ounces  of  Sallet  oyle  frefh  butter  as  much 
as  all  the  reft  3  fpoonfulls  of  the  fpirit  of  Sack  3 
times  redlified  water  of  rue  of  fage  of  Sallendine  of 
each  2  fpoonfulls  temper  thefe  well  together  and  fet 
it  in  embers  to  keep  it  warme  8  hours  then  ftrain  it 
through  a  cloth,  then  boyle  your  liquor  till  it  be  as 
thick  as  honey  on  a  mild  fire  then  take  it  off  the  fire 
and  put  it  in  a  wide  mouth'd  glafs  and  Sun  it  till  it 
come  to  the  colour  of  copper  fo  keeping  it  for  ufe 
when  you  have  occafion  to  ufe  it  anoint  the  hinder 
part  of  the  head  your  poule  and  temple  efpecially 

105 


warming  it  when  you  ufe  it  and  keep  the  head  warme 
fome  time  after  this  is  beft  made  when  the  Sun  is 
hotteft. 

299.  Mrs  Skillins  Re^  for  the  Tellow  Jaundife, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  ftrong  beer  or  Ale  9  earth  wormes 
Slit  them  and  Scoure  them  from  their  flime  then 
take  a  handfuU  of  Sallendine  and  one  penny  worth  of 
Saffron  and  put  all  thefe  together  and  let  them  boyle 
up  once  or  twice  then  let  them  ftand  till  they  are  cold 
then  ftrain  them  out  &  drink  this  3  mornings. 

300.  The  Lady  St  Johns  Approved  ReP  for  the  Stone, 

TAKE  20  bees  and  kill  them  as  they  come  out  of 
their  hives  dry  them  on  a  tile  ftone  or  fire  fhovel 
then  beat  them  into  fine  powder  take  then  fome  fnail 
fhells  fuch  as  fnails  have  left  the  clearefl  and  moil 
tranfparent  of  them  and  beat  them  into  very  fine 
powder  then  take  a  double  quantity  of  this  and  mix 
with  a  fingle  quantity  of  your  bee  powder  and  put  as 
much  of  both  thefe  powders  very  well  mixt  as  will 
lay  on  a  6  pence  into  half  a  fpoonfull  of  Sirrop  of 
althea  called  marfhmallows  fliring  it  well  together  fo 
giving  it  to  ye  party  w*^^  the  fits  upon  them  and  he 
fhall  find  (God  willing)  prefent  eafe  if  you  pleafe  you 
may  an  hour  or  2  after  give  the  party  a  good  draught 
of  white  wine  wherein  you  mufl  boyle  half  a  handfull 
of  profper  and  as  much  pellitory  of  the  wall. 

301.  For  a  Cough  a  Drink  by  Br,  Bauyer, 

TAKE  3  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  french  barley  of 
the  finefl  you  can  get  wafh  it  in  3  or  4  waters 
then  let  it  fteep  one  night  in  water  in  the  morning 
pour  away  that  water  then  put  the  barley  into  a  quart 
of  Spring  water  and  a  fmall  fpoonfull  of  anyfeeds  with 
it  boyle  thefe  together  till  half  the  water  be  confumed 

106 


then  ftrain  away  the  water  and  let  it  ftand  and  fettle 
the  fpace  of  an  hour  then  take  the  cleareft  of  this 
water  and  fweeten  it  with  white  Sugar  Candie  to  your 
liking  fwallow  down  thereof  as  leafurely  as  you  can  a 
fpoonfull  or  2  in  your  coughing  fitts  making  it  iirft 
blood  warme  before  you  drink  of  it. 

302.  An  Aproved  Re5l,  for  a  Conjumption. 

TAKE  4  bunches  of  turneps  and  12  bunches  of 
coltsfoot  leaves  fweet  fennell  feed  annyfeeds  carra- 
way  feeds  coriander  feeds  of  each  half  an  ounce  bruif- 
ing  them  in  a  morter  4  ounces  of  englifh  liquorifh 
not  fcraped  or  bruifed  but  fliced  thin  half  a  pint  of 
hyfope  water  half  a  pint  of  red  rofe  water  4  ounces  of 
white  Sugar  candie  5  or  6  ounces  of  the  beft  hive 
honey  then  i^*  you  muft  pare  your  turneps  then  take 
a  well  glazed  earthen  pot  that  is  ftrong  and  lay  in  the 
bottom  thereof  fome  of  your  coltsfoot  leaves  and 
ftrew  thereon  fome  of  your  liquorifh  and  bruifed 
feeds  then  lay  a  laying  of  turneps  then  leaves  then 
feeds  again  then  more  of  your  feeds  all  over  and  down 
the  fides  of  the  pot  then  your  liquorifh  and  feeds 
then  your  turneps  fo  laying  your  lays  till  all  be  in 
the  pot  but  the  lafl  lay  mufl  be  coltsfoot  leaves  then 
cover  your  pot  up  clofe  with  paper  or  pafte  and  fet  it 
in  a  bakers  oven  with  their  peck  loaves  and  when  it 
drawn  flrain  it  as  foon  as  you  can  into  a  great  yellow 
pipkin  that  will  hold  a  gallon  then  put  in  your  waters 
and  Sugar  Candie  and  fet  it  on  the  fire  till  ye  Sugar 
candie  be  diffolved  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  put  in 
your  honney  and  keep  it  fliring  till  your  honney  be 
difTolved  then  cover  it  w*^  y®  cover  of  the  pipkin  till 
it  be  cold  then  put  it  in  glafTes  or  bottles  and  keep  it 
in  as  coole  a  place  as  you  can  and  drink  thereof  3 
times  a  day  blood  warme  the  quantity  of  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  at  a  time  falling  an  hour  after. 


107 


303.   An  Aproved  Re^  for  the  Wind, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  white  wine  and  a  thimbleful!  of 
parfley  feed  the  like  quantity  of  annyfeeds  and  fo 
much  more  of  fennell  feeds  &  carraway  feed  and  one 
penny  worth  of  liquoriih  and  half  an  ounce  of  nut- 
megs and  a  lemon  fliced  put  all  this  together  in  the 
wine  and  boyle  it  till  half  a  pint  of  the  wine  be  boyled 
away  then  put  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Spearmint 
water  and  one  penny  worth  of  treacle  &  half  a  pint 
of  fennell  water  &  fo  keep  it  for  your  ufe  &  when 
you  have  occafion  drink  of  this  3  or  4  mornings 
when  you  rife  and  laft  at  night  &  let  it  be  blood 
warme  when  you  drink  it  this  is  excellent  for  what  it 
is  mentioned. 


304.  For  Convultion  Fits  in  Man  Woman  or  Child. 

TAKE  3  drops  of  cats  blood  in  breaft  milk  or 
cowes  of  the  milk  one  fpoonfull  blood  warme 
mingle  the  milk  and  blood  together  puting  thereto  a 
grain  of  mufk  and  give  it  the  patient  an  hour  before 
the  fit  if  you  know  at  what  time  it  comes  if  not  then 
as  foon  as  they  find  it  coming  let  them  drink  it.  this 
is  aproved. 

305.  A  Cordial  Water  of  any  Cherries. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  cherries  pluckt  oiF  their 
ftalks  then  take  2  quarts  of  claret  wine  and  half 
an  ounce  of  nutmegs  and  an  ounce  &  half  of  cinna- 
mon and  beat  them  to  powder  then  take  half  a  hand- 
full  of  balme  tops  10  tops  of  rofemary  fpriggs  then 
mix  all  thefe  together  and  let  them  fteep  24  hours 
then  put  them  in  a  hot  ftill  and  let  your  water  diftill 
with  a  foft  fire  into  your  glafs  and  before  you  flop  it 
up  put  thereto  2  ounces  and  a  half  of  white  Sugar 
candie  finely  beaten  &  hang  therein  a  grain  of  mufk 

108 


So  ftop  it  very  clofe  and  keep  it  for  your  ufe  it  being 
good  for  any  opprefTion  at  the  ftomache  &  to  comfort 
ye  heart. 

306.  S^  Roger  Pallmers  Teeth  Powder. 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  Sandoues  and  half  as  much 
allome  and  burn  your  allome  then  take  a  quarter 
fo  much  bole-ameniacke  and  you  muft  fcrape  your 
bole-ameniacke  beat  your  fandoues  and  allome  into 
fine  powder  then  mix  them  all  well  together  So  keep 
it  dry  (or  it  will  run  to  water)  and  rub  your  teeth 
with  it  weting  your  finger  to  make  the  powder  ftick 
and  wafh  it  oiF  either  with  clarret  white  wine  or 
water  every  morning  w^^  will  long  preferve  y®  teeth. 
Probatum. 

307.  Br,  Feners  Strengthening  Broth  to  Thicken  any 
Sharpe  Humour. 

TAKE  a  pullet  put  it  to  boyle  in  7  pints  of  fair 
water  firft  breaking  &  quartering  and  wafhing  it 
before  you  boyle  it  and  when  it  boyles  fcumme  it 
very  clean  of  fhavings  of  ivory  and  hartfhorn  of  each 
one  ounce  which  ye  night  before  you  ufe  you  muft 
firft  infufe  it  in  hot  water  add  to  them  an  ounce  of 
french  barley  of  cumfiry  roots  thinly  fliced  the  quan- 
tity of  four  fingers  of  china  roots  thinly  fliced  one 
ounce  of  dates  finely  fliced  2  ounces  of  gume  dragon 
a  dram  of  dry  red  rofes  a  fmall  handfuU,  of  burnet  a 
handfull  let  all  this  boyle  gently  the  veflel  cover'd  till 
half  be  confumed  then  take  it  from  the  fire  and  put 
thereto  2  ounces  of  old  conferve  of  rofes  diftblved 
firft  in  half  a  pint  of  clarret  wine  and  one  ounce  of 
marmelade  of  quinces  2  ounces  of  peniedice  of  fugar 
one  nutmeg  thinly  fliced  fo  much  cinnamon  and  of 
the  wood  of  red  faunders  thinly  fliced  or  groflly 
beaten  as  your  little  finger  then  fet  it  on  the  hot 
embers  to  infufe  6  or  7  hours  the  veflel  clofe  ftop'd 

109 


as  I  have  direft'd  and  when  it  has  infufed  as  aforefaid 
increafe  the  fire  y*  it  may  boyle  and  fo  foon  as  you 
perceive  it  boyle  take  it  oflF  the  fire  &  about  half  an 
hour  after  ftrain  hard  away  the  broth  and  drink  of 
this  half  a  pint  warm  in  the  morning  &  at  4  a  clock 
in  y®  evening.    Probatum. 

308.  A  Wajh  for  the  face  after  y''  Small  Pox. 

TAKE  a  gallon  of  fmall  white  wine  and  8  pints  of 
rofemary  flowers  3  pints  of  fhell  fnails  3  lemons 
fliced  thin,  of  balme  &  flax  feed  of  each  a  handfull 
4  fheets  of  Venice  paper  and  a  dog  of  9  days  old  take 
the  fnails  out  of  the  fhells  and  wafh  them  in  1 2  waters 
then  drain  them  in  a  linnen  cloth  kill  alfo  the  dog 
and  flay  it  and  fling  away  the  head  dry  the  4  quarters 
in  a  linnen  cloth  then  put  all  this  into  a  glafs  fl:ill 
together  and  draw  it  with  a  pretty  quick  fire  y^  i^* 
pint  will  be  the  principal  the  2^  and  3^  very  good  put 
to  each  pint  2  ounces  of  white  Sugar  candie  finely 
beaten  &  fo  keep  it  for  your  ufe  bathing  it  3  times 
a  day  with  a  fine  cloth  or  tuft  of  white  raw  filk. 

309.  To  make  Runnet  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  the  befl:  cream  and  boyle  it 
and  when  it  hath  boyled  very  well  take  it  off  and 
feafon  it  with  Sugar  and  amber-greafe  mix'd  with  a 
little  rofewater  but  you  mufl:  not  put  them  in  when 
your  cream  is  to  hot  but  fl:ir  it  till  it  be  but  warme 
and  then  put  in  a  little  runnet  as  much  as  you  think 
fiting  then  ftir  it  till  it  be  cold  then  ferve  it  up. 

310.  To  make  Egg  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  the  befl:  cream  and  boyle  it  then 
take  9  yolkes  of  eggs  beat  them  well  with  a  little 
rofe  water  and  feafon  it  with  Sugar  and  fome  amber- 
greafe  and  when  your  cream  is  well  boyled  put  your 

no 


eggs  io  prepared  to  it  and  let  them  have  a  walme 
together  but  it  muft  be  ftir'd  all  the  while  then  take 
it  off  keeping  it  ftiring  till  it  be  cold. 

311.  To  make  Plumme  Cream. 

FIRST  take  your  plummes  pare  them  and  cut 
them  from  the  ftone  then  flice  them  very  thin 
and  put  them  into  a  tankard  then  fet  it  into  a  Skillet 
of  boyling  water  upon  the  fire  that  the  water  get  not 
into  your  tankard  fo  let  it  boyle  till  it  comes  to  a  jelly 
then  take  it  out  and  beat  it  with  Sugar  &  rofewater 
cut  it  into  quarters  and  put  fome  large  mace  into  it 
fo  let  it  boyle  well  then  take  it  and  ftir  it  till  it  be  but 
warm  then  put  in  as  much  of  your  plumme  fluff  as 
will  thicken  it  and  fo  beat  them  altogether  and  when 
it  is  cold  ferve  it  up. 

312.  'To  make  Apple  Pajiies, 

TAKE  of  the  beft  apples  and  pare  them  and  core 
them  and  flice  them  very  thin  and  feafon  them 
with  Sugar  and  a  little  ginger  and  orange  peels  &  fo 
flir  it  well  together  and  put  them  into  your  pafle 
which  is  befl  when  thinefl. 

313.  To  make  frejh  Cheeje  and  Cream, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  new  milk  and  a  pottle  of  cream 
boyle  them  with  whole  cinnamon  large  mace  and 
fliced  nutmeg  then  take  the  whole  fpice  out  and  coole 
the  cream  very  well  then  wring  a  whole  lemon  into  a 
little  whitewine  vinegar  as  much  as  will  turn  the  curd 
then  take  the  curde  off  with  your  hand  and  put  it 
into  a  clean  cloth  tye  it  with  a  thread  &  hang  it  up 
y^  the  whey  may  drain  out  of  it,  in  the  mean  time 
take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds  blanch  them 
and  grind  them  very  well  as  fine  as  you  can  then 
mingle  the  curd  and  the  almonds  being  finely  beaten 
together  and  put  2,  3  or  4  fpoonfuUs  of  rofewater 

III 


2  grains  of  ambergreafe  one  grain  of  mufk  Sugar  as 
much  as  you  pleafe  and  being  mixt  together  rub  them 
through  a  hair  five  with  a  fpoon. 

314.   To  make  Dutch  Waffers, 

TAKE  a  pottle  of  milk  and  warme  it  2  fpoonfulls 
of  yeft  temper  it  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  a 
pretty  quantity  of  fait  as  may  feafon  your  wafFers 
then  put  it  into  your  milk  and  3  manchets  which  you 
muft  firft  foake  in  your  milk  cuting  away  the  cruft 
then  breake  it  fmall  and  put  to  it  fo  much  flour  as  will 
make  it  batter  as  thin  as  pancake  batter  beat  1 8  eggs 
very  thin  with  a  little  fait  and  put  them  firft  to  your 
milk  if  you  will  you  may  grate  your  bread  and  mingle 
it  with  your  flour  and  then  ftir  it  very  well  in  your 
milk  and  eggs  melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  put  it 
to  your  batter  and  fet  it  arifeing  in  the  chimney  corner 
being  covered  with  a  cloth  till  it  rife  very  well  and 
then  heat  your  irons  and  take  a  piece  of  a  bottom 
crufte  and  fpread  it  with  butter  and  fo  anoint  the 
irons  with  it  then  put  fome  of  your  butter  in  ye  irons 
but  not  to  much  bake  it  awhile  on  that  fide  then  turn 
it  on  the  other  fide  in  like  manner  and  Serve  it  up 
w*^  butter  and  Sugar.    Probatum. 

315.   To  make  Cracknells, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fine  flour  and  half  a  pound  of 
fine  Sugar  finely  fearched  mingle  3  parts  of  the 
flour  with  the  fugar  and  a  few  anyfeeds  and  coUiander 
feeds  take  2  ounces  of  fweet  butter  and  melt  it  with 
2  fpoonfulls  of  rofewater  put  in  it  one  grain  of  mufk 
one  grain  of  ambergreefe  made  into  duft  with  a  little 
fugar  mingle  it  with  your  flour  and  fugar  and  make 
your  pafte  with  your  liquor  make  it  into  thin  round 
cakes  and  fo  bake  them  no  thicker  than  a  plate  make 
them  up  with  the  reft  of  the  flour  and  duft  your 
paper  very  thick  prick  your  paper  very  thick  before 

112 


you  lay  them  on  when  you  fet  them  in  the  oven  wett 
them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  rofewater 
beaten  together  fo  bake  them  in  a  reafonable  hot  oven. 

316.   The  Lady  Jenkinfons  Ointment  for  ye  Pain  in  ye 

Stomach. 

TAKE  one  handfull  of  garden  tanfey  the  like 
quantity  of  rofemary  one  handfull  of  cammomile 
fhred  all  thefe  and  then  boyle  them  in  one  pound  of 
frefh  butter  till  the  ftrength  of  the  herbs  be  boyled 
out  then  ftrain  it  and  keep  it  for  your  ufe. 


T; 


317.  To  flop  vomitting  for  one  in  a  Confumption. 

^AKE  of  nutmegs  cloves  cubibs  Safanas  of  each  an 
ounce  Cinnamon  Gallingall  roots  Sippris  roots  Safa- 
perilla  of  each  half  an  ounce  put  all  thefe  in  a  jugg 
with  a  gallon  of  Sack  or  white  methegline  ftop  it  clofe 
and  infufe  2  hours  then  run  it  through  a  bag  then 
put  in  3  grains  of  mufke  as  much  ambergreafe  and 
half  a  pound  of  fugar  you  muft  fet  it  to  infufe  on 
fome  hot  embers  or  near  the  fire  that  it  may  a  little 
warme  then  through  the  bag  run  it  again  when  it  is 
cold  fo  keep  it  for  your  ufe  takeing  of  it  morning 
and  evening  fafting  6  fpoonfuUs. 

318.  The  Lady  Jenkinfons  way  to  preferve  Barberries. 

TAKE  the  faireft  and  beft  coloured  barberries  & 
take  out  (with  a  needle  put  into  a  ftick)  the 
ftones  then  put  your  barberries  into  a  filver  bafon  w**^ 
as  much  clariefied  Sugar  as  will  cover  them  and  fo  let 
them  boyle  in  a  feething  pot  of  water  leafurely  till 
you  fee  your  barberryes  tender  and  the  iirrop  well 
coloured  then  take  up  your  barberryes  and  put  into 
your  firrop  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  finely  beaten  and 
fo  let  your  firrop  boyle  till  it  be  thick  to  a  jelly  and 
when  it  is  cold  put  in  your  barberryes  &  they  will 
feem  quaking  and  fo  you  may  keep  them  all  the  year. 

113  I 


319.  ^0  make  Sugar  Cakes, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  fine  wheat  flour  finely  fearch't 
half  a  pound  of  Sugar  beaten  and  fearcht  mingle 
thefe  together  with  the  yolke  of  an  tgg  and  one 
pound  of  butter  and  one  fpoonfull  of  rofewater  knead 
all  thefe  cold  together  then  make  your  cakes  round 
and  thin  and  prick  them  thick  laying  them  on  flour'd 
papers  fo  bake  them  in  your  oven. 

320.   'To  make  Bijkit, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  fugar  finely  beaten  7  yolkes 
of  eggs  5  whites  beat  ye  fugar  and  eggs  together 
an  hour  then  having  your  oven  ready  put  in  five 
ounces  of  flour  and  a  fpoonfull  of  carraway  feeds  fl:ir 
it  to  mingle  all  well  together  then  have  paper  ready 
cut  and  put  a  fpoonfull  on  every  paper  and  fo  fafl:  as 
you  can  hafl:en  to  the  oven  they  will  foon  be  baked  if 
y'  oven  be  hot  as  for  manchet. 

321.  To  make  Cheefe  Cakes, 

TAKE  new  milk  cheefe  when  it  is  well  prefixed  and 
work  it  with  your  hand  till  it  be  like  pulpe  then 
work  it  with  fome  cold  butter  and  put  in  6  yolkes 
and  2  whites  fome  plumpt  currants  feafon  it  with 
nutmeg  cinnamon  &  Sugar  and  fo  make  them  up  in 
very  good  pafl:e. 

322.   To  make  Almond  Loaves, 

TAKE  a  pot  of  milk  and  put  fo  much  runnet  to 
it  as  will  make  a  fine  tender  curd  then  drain  it 
very  dry  then  take  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  a  fpoonfull  of 
rofewater  3  or  4  fpoonfulls  of  cream  3  fpoonfulls  of 
flour  and  2  of  grated  bread  So  feafon  it  with  Salt  Sugar 
and  nutmeg  then  being  well  mingled,  make  them 
like  loaves  and  bake  them  in  wooden  diflies  and  bake 
them  very  quick  or  elfe  they  will  flat  when  you  ferve 
them  then  let  their  fauce  be  rofewater  butter  and  fugar. 

114 


323.  Mrs  Baniells  Re^  to  make  White  Metheglin, 

TO  every  3  gallons  of  water  put  one  gallon  of 
honey  feeth  the  fame  on  a  moderate  fire  till  the 
third  part  be  confumed  fcumming  it  clear  ftiring  it 
with  a  Scummer  now  and  then  to  raife  the  honey 
from  the  bottom  w'^  its  fodden  enough  it  will  be  clear 
in  boyling  by  which  you  may  know  it  is  boyled 
fusfitiently  then  put  it  into  a  fweet  vefTel  to  every 
3  gallons  fo  boyl'd  and  clear'd  put  one  quart  of  good 
ale  barme  the  next  day  draw  y®  fame  liquor  into 
another  veiTel  leaving  the  grounds  in  the  bottom  & 
then  put  new  barme  the  fame  quantity  after  it's  again 
thus  purified  and  fo  let  it  reft  in  the  vefTel  puting  in 
your  bag  of  fpices.  The  Lady  Downs  adds  Sweet 
marjerom,  rofemary  pennyroyall,  violets,  fweet  bryer 
tops,  fennell  balme  tops  lavender  tops  and  time  the 
beft  of  feeds  corriander  carraway  and  anyfeeds,  of 
fpices  ginger  nutmegs  cloves  and  mace  the  fpices  and 
feeds  to  hang  in  a  bag  in  the  barrell,  thefe  herbs  and 
fpices  to  the  quantity  of  8  gallons  half  an  ounce  or 
better  of  each.  But  with  this  addition  twill  not  be  fo 
white. 

324.   Another  of  Hers  to  make  White  Metheglin, 

TO  12  gallons  of  water  you  muft  take  rofemary 
half  a  handfull  broad  time,  fweet  marjerrom, 
egremony,  harts  tongue  burrage  buglace  of  each  one 
handfull  of  violet  flowers  2  handfuUs  of  jillie  flowers 
one  handfull  anyfeeds  corriander  carraway  parfley 
feeds  of  each  one  ounce  well  bruifed  w^^  with  the 
feeds  boyle  the  herbs  in  the  water  till  it  comes  to 
10  gallons  then  ftrain  it  out  and  let  it  coole  a  little 
put  in  your  honey  good  hive  honey  and  ftir  it  to- 
gether ading  fo  much  liquor  as  will  bear  an  ^gg  to  the 
breadth  of  6  pence  then  take  the  liquor  and  put  it 
over  ye  fire  and  boyle  it  a  little  but  fcumme  it  very 
well,  then  make  it  cold  and  put  a  little  frefh  ale  barme 

IIS 


into  it  then  put  it  into  a  barrel  &  when  it  hath  done 
working  put  in  a  little  bag  of  fuch  fpices  as  you  pleafe 
with  a  fmall  quantity  of  mufk. 

325.   To  make  a  Silliebuhe, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  white  wine  a  pint  of  mornings 
cream  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  put 
them  in  a  bafon  and  beat  them  well  together  till  it 
come  to  a  froth  then  pour  it  into  a  Syllabub  pot  and 
milk  a  fuffitient  quantity  of  milk  upon  it  and  let  it 
ftand  in  a  coole  place  till  night  for  the  longer  it  ftand 
fo  it  grow  not  four  the  clearer  the  drink  will  be  and 
the  firmer  ye  curd. 

326.  To  make  a  Pojfet  without  Milk, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  Sack  and  as  much  ale  and  put 
them  into  that  you  will  make  your  poffet  in  and 
in  a  fkillet  of  water  fet  your  pot  with  the  ale  and  wine 
till  they  boyle  then  feafon  them  with  Sugar  and  other 
fpices  then  take  the  whites  of  16  eggs  and  the  yolkes 
of  2  or  3  and  beat  them  till  they  be  as  thin  as  water 
and  when  your  Sack  and  ale  doth  boyle  pour  your 
eggs  upon  it  as  you  would  do  milk  ftiring  it  that 
while  with  a  fpoon. 

327.  To  make  Sugar  Puffs. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  the  fineft  fugar  beat  and 
fearch  it  as  fine  as  you  can  then  put  it  in  a  ftone 
alablafter  morter  then  take  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beat 
them  to  a  froth  and  put  it  to  your  Sugar  and  beat  it 
with  your  Sugar  as  white  as  you  can  and  as  fine  as 
may  be  then  put  as  much  civet  as  a  pins  head  and  as 
much  mufk  then  butter  your  plates  &  wipe  then 
afterward  lay  them  in  workes  bake  them  in  an  oven 
after  the  bread  is  drawn  or  pyes  you  may  put  feeds  if 
you  pleafe. 

116 


328.  ne  Lady  Jenkinfons  Plumme  Cake, 

TAKE  a  peck  of  fine  wheat  flour  3  pound  of 
butter  breake  your  butter  in  pieces  into  the 
flour  till  it  be  crumbly  and  then  take  8  pound  of  y® 
befl:  currants  and  put  them  in  with  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  mace  &  one  ounce  and  half  of  nutmegs  a 
pound  and  half  of  loafe  Sugar  a  fpoonfuU  of  fait  and 
an  ale  pint  of  Scaulded  cream  and  a  pint  of  cream  cold 
fomething  better  than  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  fack 
6  eggs  both  yolkes  and  whites  a  pint  of  new  ale  barme 
fl:rain'd,  mingle  all  thefe  together  but  do  not  knead 
it  longer  than  to  mingle  it,  then  fet  it  before  the  fire 
to  rife,  which  will  be  in  half  an  hour,  it  mufl:  be 
covered  with  a  blanket,  when  you  rowle  it  out  you 
may  if  you  will  put  a  flieet  of  other  pafl:e  under  it  the 
oven  mufl:  be  well  and  hot  and  it  mufl:  ftand  in  the 
oven  at  leaft  3  hours  when  it  is  almoft  baked  you 
may  draw  it  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven  and  fee  it  as 
you  do  tarts. 

329.  ^0  make  Light  "Bread  the  French  Way. 

TAKE  half  a  peck  of  fine  drefl^^'d  flour  and  a  pint 
and  half  of  the  beft  ale  barme  &  as  much  fair 
water  made  hot  not  to  Scauld  y®  barme  but  hotter 
than  to  endure  your  hand  in  it  then  put  your  barme 
to  it  and  feafon  it  w*^  a  fmall  handfuU  of  fait  then 
make  your  dough  with  it  &  knead  it  well  together  & 
as  faft  as  you  can  make  it  into  1 6  fmall  balls  &  fpread 
a  woollen  cloth  to  lay  your  loaves  on  &z:  cover  them 
with  ye  fame  on  board  lay  them  one  by  one  not  to 
touch  then  put  them  in  the  oven  when  you  go  about 
your  dough  you  mufl  not  let  it  ftand  to  long  but  there 
is  no  diredions  to  be  given  when  to  draw,  but  you 
muft  draw  it  as  you  fee  Caufe. 


117 


330.  T^he  Lady  Buttons  Almond  Butter, 

TAKE  the  beft  Jourdan  almonds  and  blanch  them 
beating  them  very  fmall  with  fweet  cream  and 
ftrain  it  out  and  put  in  as  much  Sugar  as  will  fweeten 
it  beat  your  almonds  after  the  firft  ftraining  3  or  4 
times  then  fet  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  is  pretty  thick 
then  put  it  in  a  cloth  to  whey  So  let  it  hang  all  night 
to  drain  then  turn  it  into  difhes. 

331.   ^he  Lady  Bidollyps  Rajberry  Wine, 

TAKE  to  every  gallon  of  white  wine  2  quarts  of 
rafberryes  bruife  them  then  put  them  and  your 
wine  into  a  ftone  pot  and  add  to  every  gallon  of  wine 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar  fo  cover  it  clofe  and  let 
it  ftand  fteeping  5  days  ftiring  it  once  every  day  then 
take  an  hipocras  bag  &  wet  it  with  milk  and  fo  run 
your  wine  through  it  feveral  times  till  it  run  clear 
then  draw  it  off  into  bottles  and  let  it  ftand  3  week 
with  the  corkes  but  (lightly  put  in  then  put  into  each 
bottle  a  knob  of  fugar  and  ftop  up  your  bottles  then 
very  clofe  &  tye  down  y®  corke  &  fet  them  in  a  coole 
place  and  it  will  keep  a  great  while. 

332.  'The  Lady  AJhfields  Metheglin, 

TAKE  fair  water  and  the  beft  honey  beat  them 
well  together  but  not  in  a  wooden  vefTel  for 
wood  drinks  up  your  honey  put  it  together  in  a 
kittle  and  trye  it  with  a  new  laid  ^^^  which  will  fwim 
at  top  if  it  be  very  ftrong  but  if  it  bob  up  and  finke 
it  will  be  to  weake  and  you  muft  add  more  honey  one 
quarter  of  honey  to  a  gallon  of  water  will  make  it 
very  ftrong  then  boyle  it  an  hour  and  put  in  to  it  a 
bundle  of  herbs  what  fort  you  like  beft  a  little  bag 
of  fpices  of  nutmegs,  ginger,  cloves  and  mace  and 
cinnamon  Scumme  it  well  all  the  while  it  boyles 
when  it  hath  boyled  a  full  hour  take  it  off  and  put  it 

118 


into  earthen  pans  and  fo  let  it  ftand  till  the  next  day- 
pour  out  all  the  clear  of  it  into  ^a  good  veiTel  that 
hath  had  fack  or  white  wine  in  it  let  your  bag  of 
fpices  hang  in  it  and  fo  let  it  be  very  clofe  ftop'd  & 
well  filled  and  let  it  ftand  a  month  longer  then  if  you 
defire  to  drink  it  quickly  you  may  bottle  it  up  if  it 
be  ftrong  of  the  honey  you  may  keep  it  a  year  or  2, 
but  if  weaker  than  the  proportions  above  writen  then 
it  will  be  ready  in  3  months  to  be  fpent  rofemary 
time  &  fweet  marjeron  are  ye  herbs  ftiould  go  into  it 
a  fprig  or  2  of  each. 

333.  The  Marleborow  Cake. 

TAKE  a  peck  of  fine  flour  to  it  4  pound  of  cur- 
rants 4  pound  of  butter  of  cloves  mace  nutmegs 
carraway  (or  corriander)  of  each  a  quarter  an  ounce 
but  moft  of  mace  a  pound  of  Sugar  a  pennyworth  of 
SaiFron  Sack  and  rofewater  ale  yeft  fomething  lefs  than 
a  pint  fo  make  them  up  into  cakes  about  2  inches 
thick  prick  them  w*^  a  bodkin  and  bake  them  for 
your  ufe. 

334.  To  make  ye  Spanijh  Cream, 

TAKE  5  quarts  of  milk  warm  from  the  cow  and 
when  it's  boyl'd  up  to  ye  top  of  the  Skillet  have 
a  quart  of  cream  ready  and  put  it  into  the  milk  and 
ftir  it  well  about  while  on  the  fire  then  take  it  off  and 
put  it  in  3  or  4  Sallet  difhes  and  let  it  ftand  in  a 
coole  place  that  day  and  a  night  ye  next  day  take  ye 
cream  clean  off  and  put  it  in  a  deep  gaily  pot  and 
put  as  much  Sugar  as  will  fweeten  it  and  with  a  fpoon 
beat  it  till  it  be  as  thick  as  cream  in  a  churn  when  it 
is  ready  to  break  and  then  put  it  in  a  difti  in  what 
faftiion  you  pleafe  with  raw  cream  with  it  or  rather 
about  it. 


119 


335*  ^  Cahhidge  Cream, 

TAKE  frefh  milk  and  fcauld  it  and  while  very  hoc 
put  it  in  feverall  pans  and  let  it  ftand  till  there 
be  a  yellow  fcumme  upon  it  then  cut  the  fcumme  in 
ye  middle  then  take  it  off  the  milk  and  lay  it  on  a 
fawcer  which  put  in  your  difh  you  will  ferve  it  in 
with  the  bottom  of  the  fawcer  upward  when  the  fawcer 
is  all  covered  with  the  cream  fearch  fome  fine  fugar 
through  a  tifFanie  upon  it  and  fprinkle  fome  rofe  or 
orange  flower  water  upon  it  then  take  the  fame  milk 
and  do  as  you  did  before  fo  make  your  cabbidge  as 
big  as  you  will. 

336.  My  Lord  Howards  Re^  for  S  her  belt, 

TAKE  12  lemons  and  12  oranges  pare  them  as 
you  pare  an  apple  neither  to  thick  nor  to  thin 
then  pinch  out  the  juice  out  of  your  peels  into  fugar 
next  ftrain  out  the  juice  of  your  oranges  and  lemons 
into  a  pound  of  powder  Sugar  then  mingle  all  your 
juices  together  and  let  them  ftand  all  night  then  the 
next  day  add  another  pound  of  fugar  and  let  it  ftand 
till  it  difTolves  then  bottle  it  up  for  your  ufe  keeping 
it  coole  and  perfumeing  it  to  your  likeing. 

337.  I'd  keep  Damjons  all  the  Tear. 

TAKE  3  pounds  of  the  faireft  Damfons  oflF  the 
tree  and  wipe  them  and  pick  them  with  a  few 
holes  and  lay  them  one  by  one  in  earthen  difties  and 
after  y^  bread  is  drawn  fet  them  in  the  oven  but  not 
to  hot  let  them  ftand  a  day  to  coole  after  they  are 
drawn  then  take  a  pound  of  fugar  to  3  pounds  of 
Damfons  and  lay  a  thin  pafte  in  the  bottom  of  a 
Skillet  and  lay  your  damfons  clofe  one  by  one  the 
reft  ftrew  between  and  over  your  damfons  to  cover 
them  fo  put  them  hot  into  your  pot  and  the  liquor 
hot  alfo  to  them  fo  let  them  ftand  till  through  cold 

120 


then  clarifie  butter  and  put  on  them  not  to  hot  and 
fo  let  it  coole  then  cover  it  clofe  and  keep  it  for  your 
ufe  all  the  year  &  when  you  take  of  them  to  ufe  and 
breake  your  butter  you  muft  keep  the  fame  butter  to 
cover  the  remainder  till  all  the  damfons  be  fpent. 
Probatum. 

338.  Oyfter  Porrage, 

TAKE  a  barrell  of  oyfters  and  in  opening  them 
fave  all  the  liquor  with  them  put  a  quart  of 
white  wine  and  a  little  mace  a  whole  onion  and  5 
anchovife  fet  them  over  a  gtnllQ  fire  and  let  them 
ftew  till  you  conceive  them  ready  then  take  the 
yolkes  of  16  eggs  well  beaten  together  and  fo  put 
them  into  your  oyfters  ftiring  it  conftantly  to  keep 
your  eggs  from  curdling  and  when  you  find  them 
enough  ftew'd  take  it  oiF  the  fire  puting  into  it  half 
a  pound  of  fweet  butter  and  rub  the  bottom  of  your 
difh  with  garlicke  or  fhellot  and  ferve  them  up  with 
fipputs  round  the  fides  of  your  difh. 

339.  'To  make  Pancakes. 

TAKE  8  eggs  whites  and  all  beat  them  very  well 
and  put  to  them  a  quart  of  cream  and  as  much 
flour  as  is  needfull  then  take  a  pound  of  frefh  butter 
and  melt  it  and  throw  into  your  batter  and  a  nutmeg 
grat'd  and  fo  fry  them  without  any  other  butter  in 
the  pan  your  batter  muft  be  made  an  hour  or  2 
before  you  frye  it  up  eat  them  with  juice  of  orange 
and  Sugar. 

340.  The  Lady  Seymours  way  to  Coller  Beefe. 

TAKE  a  flanke  of  the  youngeft  beef  you  can  get 
and  cut  it  into  3  pieces  &  put  it  into  a  paile  of 
plump  water  and  put  2  quarts  of  fait  peeter  to  it  and 
fo  let  it  lay  4  days  then  take  it  out  and  take  nutmegs 
cloves  and  mace  a  reafonable  quantity  and  a  little 

121 


pepper  beat  altogether  then  take  a  handfull  of  fage 
and  half  as  much  young  bay  leaves  fhred  very  fmall 
and  mingle  ye  fpices  and  them  together  and  ftrew 
them  between  every  laying  of  beef  and  fo  rowle  it  up 
in  collers  very  clofe  and  keep  faft  with  fkewers  as  you 
tie  it  up  then  put  in  a  pot  with  3  pints  of  claret  wine 
and  a  gallon  of  ftrong  broth  of  mutton  or  frefh  beefe 
before  you  lay  your  coUer  beefe  in  water  take  off  the 
fcumme  in  the  infide  and  when  you  put  the  collers  in 
the  pot  cover  it  with  the  fcumme  then  lay  the  over 
fcumme  3  pounds  of  beefe  fewit  the  pot  muft  be  very 
clofe  paft'd  up  and  fet  in  the  oven  with  brown  bread 
&  ftand  10  hours  then  take  it  out  of  the  pot  from 
the  liquor  and  keep  them  dry  for  your  eating. 

341.  To  boy le  a  Rump^  Surloiney  or  Rearing  of  Beef , 

FIRST  corne  it  well  with  fait  44  hours  at  the  left 
or  48  if  the  time  will  permit  then  take  of  the 
marrow  of  the  beef  or  the  beef  fewit  the  length  of 
your  finger  then  take  fweet  herbs  as  marjerom,  winter 
favorie,  pennyroyall,  and  fome  time  mince  them  fmall 
with  your  fat  or  marrow  &  fo  ftufF  it  in  4  or  5  rowes 
all  over  your  beef  boyle  it  with  4  or  5  onions  whole 
then  put  in  pepper  and  ginger  very  fmall  beaten  only 
as  much  as  will  give  it  a  tafte  when  all  thefe  are  half 
boyled  put  into  the  broth  half  a  collender  of  any 
wholefome  fweet  herbs  groflly  cut  put  into  the  broth 
a  little  vinegar  when  it  is  throughly  boyled  ferve  it 
up  w*^  good  ftore  of  white  fippets  in  your  difh  pour 
your  broth  and  herbs  upon  the  beef  before  you  boyle 
y^  beef  wafh  off  the  fait  and  cut  off  the  fat  very  well 
otherwife  ye  broth  will  be  too  fat  and  too  fait  and 
when  your  onions  are  boyled  enough  take  y°  out  alfo 
for  they  are  only  to  give  a  tafte  but  not  to  be  feen  or 
ferved  in. 


122 


342.  To  preferve  Oranges  or  Lemons. 

TAKE  oranges  or  lemons  large  and  well  coloured 
and  with  a  litde  grater  grate  off  the  very  outfide 
and  deep  colour  then  lay  them  in  water  3  or  4  days 
then  boyle  them  very  tender  fhifting  your  water  3 
times  but  let  your  water  be  hot  which  you  fhift  them 
with  in  boyling  to  take  away  their  bitternefs  from 
them  and  when  they  be  very  tender  then  take  them 
out  into  fome  earthen  difh  and  with  a  penknife  cut  a 
little  hole  in  the  top  and  take  out  all  the  kernells, 
then  take  to  every  pound  of  oranges  a  pound  and 
half  of  good  loafe  fugar  and  to  every  pound  of  Sugar 
half  a  pint  of  fair  water  and  breake  your  fugar  and 
mix  it  with  your  quantity  off  water  and  boyle  it  to  a 
pretty  firrop  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  when  it  is 
between  hot  and  cold  put  in  your  oranges  and  let  them 
fimber  a  little  but  not  boyle  to  faft,  for  faft  boyling 
will  make  them  hard  and  tough  then  put  orange  and 
firrop  together  in  a  pot  and  let  them  ftand  3  days 
then  take  out  the  oranges  again  and  put  fome  more 
Sugar  into  the  Sirrop  &  boyle  it  fomething  thicker 
and  fcumme  it  clean  and  when  it  is  almofl  cold  put 
in  your  oranges  again  and  then  fet  them  on  a  foft  fire 
as  before  leting  them  only  fimber  half  an  hour  and 
then  put  them  up  for  3  days  more  and  the  3^  or  4*^ 
day  do  likewife  as  before  to  take  out  the  oranges 
again  and  let  y^  fimber  another  half  hour  then  take 
them  off  the  fire  and  put  your  oranges  firfl  in  your 
pot  you  will  keep  them  in  then  pour  the  firrop  on 
them  and  let  them  fland  till  they  be  cold  then  tie 
them  up  to  keep. 

343.  To  preferve  Pippins  Green. 

TAKE  pippins  when  fmall  and  green  off  the  tree 
pare  a  few  and  flice  them  and  boyle  them  in  a 
quart  of  fair  water  till  they  be  pap  then  drain  them 

123 


through  a  cloth  into  a  bafon  of  earth  then  put  the 
liquor  into  a  fkillet  with  a  pound  of  clarified  Sugar 
and  put  as  many  green  pippins  unpared  as  that  liquor 
will  cover  and  fo  let  them  boyle  foftly  and  when  you 
fee  them  boyled  as  tender  as  a  colding  then  take  them 
off  and  peel  them  the  upermoft  white  fkin  and  then 
put  them  in  your  firrop  again  &  boyle  them  till  the 
iirrop  be  thick  and  your  pippins  will  be  green  and 
you  muft  pot  and  keep  your  pot  near  y®  fire.  Pro- 
batum. 

344.  Tb  preferve  Cherries. 

TAKE  6  pound  of  fair  cherries  and  7  pound  of 
double  refined  Sugar  then  take  a  pound  of  cherries 
and  pick  off  the  flalks  and  bruife  them  into  a  gallypot 
and  fet  it  in  a  fkellet  of  water  and  boyle  a  good  while 
puting  a  little  water  to  get  out  all  their  juice  the 
whilfl  they  are  infufing  ftone  your  raw  cherries  and 
as  you  ftone  them  put  them  into  fome  of  your  fugar 
finely  beaten  which  will  keep  them  from  turning  black 
and  when  you  have  floned  all  of  them  laying  them  in 
a  preferving  pan  flrew  on  your  cherries  a  third  part 
of  your  Sugar  and  then  pour  on  your  flrain*d  liquor 
of  your  other  cherries  to  the  raw  cherries  in  your 
preferving  pan  and  fet  it  on  a  charcole  fire  and  fo  let 
it  boyle  very  leafurely  takeing  off  the  fcumme  as  it 
rifes  and  very  often  fhake  them  and  ftir  them  up  from 
the  bottom  takeing  them  off  the  fire  fometimes  to 
fcumme  them  clean  and  let  them  boyle  a  pretty  while 
then  put  in  the  other  part  of  your  Sugar  and  let  them 
boyle  very  high  to  clear  them  &  when  they  be  boyled 
enough  juft  as  you  be  going  to  take  them  off  fire 
take  a  lemon  and  cut  it  in  the  middle  and  take  out 
the  feeds  and  fqueeze  out  y®  juice  into  the  cherries  all 
over  them  then  take  them  off  the  fire  and  take  a  fheet 
of  cap  paper  and  lay  all  over  the  cherries  to  take  off 
y*  remaining  fcumme  very  clean  then  take  out  the 

124 


cherries  leaving  them  in  your  firrop  to  cleanfe  them 
from  the  fcumme  then  when  the  firrop  is  alfo  cleaned 
of  fcumme  pour  it  to  your  cherries  in  your  pot  and 
when  they  are  throughly  cold  tie  them  up  in  your 
pot  fometimes  opening  &  ftiring  them  will  keep  them 
from  candieing  &  they  will  keep  the  better. 

345.  The  Carraway  Comfit  Cake  without  Fruit  in  it, 

TAKE  2  pound  of  fine  flour  3  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  frefli  butter  a  pound  of  Sugar  both  thefe  put 
into  the  flour  dry  (the  butter  in  many  fmall  pieces) 
7  yolkes  and  but  3  eggs  more  which  put  into  the  7 
with  their  whites  alfo  and  beat  them  very  well  together 
with  4  fpoonfulls  of  Sack  and  as  much  rofewater  firfl: 
fteeping  in  the  Sack  and  rofewater  6  pennyworth  of 
fafFron  fome  nutmegs  grated  then  take  half  a  pint  of 
cream  boyled  and  cool'd  again  then  take  a  pint  and 
quarter  of  very  good  ale  yefl:  and  mingle  it  with  the 
cream  eggs  and  fpices  fack  and  rofewater,  warming  it 
altogether  milk  warm  keeping  it  fl:iring  while  you 
warm  it  &  when  warm  pour  it  into  your  flour,  cover- 
ing it  over  lightly  with  the  flour  &  fo  let  it  fl:and  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  clofe  covered  then  mingle  it  all  very 
well  together  and  add  thereto  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
carraway  comfits  w^^  when  all  very  well  mix*d  put 
into  a  paper  hoop  &  fet  it  in  an  oven  prepared  for  it 
3  quarters  of  an  hour  for  if  it  fl:and  to  long  it  will  run 
abroad  &  be  heavy. 

346.  The  Lady  Marque/s  of  Worcefters  Re^  tojugar 

all  Sorts  of  Sharpe  Fruits  or  Herbs  to  dry  or 
Flowers. 

TAKE  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  them  to  a  froth 
and  when  the  froth  is  high  dipe  your  fruits  herbs 
or  flowers  and  have  fome  fine  fugar  double  fearched 
and  while  they  are  wet  with  the  froth  dipe  in  your 

125 


herbs  fruits  or  flowers  into  your  lugar  your  fruit  muft 
be  fpent  but  your  herbs  and  flowers  will  keep  all  the 
year. 

347.  'To  preferve  Chyna  Oranges, 

TAKE  what  quantity  you  pleafe  of  chyna  oranges 
and  with  a  fmaller  grater  grate  off  the  yellow  peel 
(the  deepefl:  and  ripeft  oranges  do  befl:  and  cleareft) 
let  your  grater  be  very  clean  elfe  it  will  change  the 
colour,  and  take  great  care  you  grate  not  to  deep  and 
as  you  grate  them  put  them  in  water  or  they  will  turn 
blackifli  and  when  you  have  done  them  all  wafli  them 
in  2  or  3  waters  and  have  a  kettle  of  clear  water  to 
fet  them  over  the  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  let 
them  boyle  in  this  firfl:  water  then  have  another  kettle 
of  water  boyling  and  fhift  them  into  it  fo  fhifting 
them  into  frefli  kettles  of  boyling  waters  5  or  6  times 
fo  boyling  them  till  they  be  fo  tender  as  a  fl:raw  may 
go  through  them  then  take  them  and  with  a  penknife 
cut  out  a  round  piece  in  the  bottome  and  keep  it  to 
go  in  again,  after  you  have  firfl:  taken  out  all  the 
feeds  very  clean  with  your  little  finger  and  preferved 
them  and  are  going  to  pot  them  up  then  only  you 
muft  put  in  the  piece  you  cut  out  as  a  Stople  to  them 
you  muft  weigh  them  when  they  are  boyled  and  to 
every  pound  of  orange  you  muft  take  2  pound  and  a 
half  of  double  refined  fugar  and  to  every  pound  of 
fugar  you  may  put  almoft  half  a  pint  of  fair  water, 
divide  your  fugar  into  3  parts  then  take  one  part  and 
put  into  all  the  quantity  of  water  ftir  it  together  in  a 
great  Skellet  and  fet  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boyle  a 
little  and  Scumme  it  clear  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and 
let  it  be  pretty  coole  then  put  in  your  oranges  and  fet 
them  on  a  foft  fire  and  let  them  not  boyle  but  fimber 
a  little  while  then  take  them  ofl^  the  fire  puting  your 
oranges  i^*  into  a  pot  and  then  pour  on  the  firrop  to 
them  and  let  them  ftand  3  days  then  take  the  oranges 

126 


from  the  firrop  and  put  your  (irrop  into  a  fkellet  and 
put  the  fecond  part  of  the  fugar  and  pare  and  core 
and  quarter  6  John  apples  and  put  them  Into  your 
firrop  and  fet  it  on  the  fire  leting  it  boyle  quick  till 
it  be  much  thicker  than  it  was  before  when  you  think 
it  thick  enough  take  it  off  y^  fire  and  let  it  be  almoft 
cold  then  put  in  y^  oranges  again  and  fet  them  on  ye 
fire  and  let  them  fimber  half  an  hour  as  before  turn- 
ing them  often  (or  they  will  not  be  all  over  of  one 
colour)  then  take  them  off  the  fire  and  pot  them  up 
as  before  to  ftand  3  days  more,  and  at  the  3*^  days 
end  take  out  the  oranges  and  put  in  y®  3^  part  of 
your  fugar  into  the  firrop  and  6  more  John  apples 
ordered  as  before  in  with  the  firrop  and  boyle  it  very 
thick  then  take  it  off  and  fet  it  acooling  as  before 
then  put  in  the  oranges  and  give  them  one  boyling 
up  or  2  but  have  a  care  in  boyling  they  do  not  harden 
but  take  them  off  the  fire  and  when  they  are  quite 
cold  tye  them  up  in  your  pot  very  clofe  to  keep  for 
your  {pending  remember  to  take  out  the  apples  before 
you  put  in  your  oranges  or  that  they  be  fo  tender  as 
to  make  the  firrop,    Probatum. 

348.   j^  Cake  for  Ordinary  Ufes, 

TAKE  4  pound  of  fine  flour  warm  it  in  an  earthen 
pan  by  the  fire  then  break  in  a  pound  of  frefh 
butter  and  a  pound  of  fugar  mixing  both  very  well 
into  y'  dryed  flour  then  take  10  eggs  put  in  but  3  of 
the  whites  and  beat  them  very  well  then  put  to  your 
eggs  when  well  beaten  3  fpoonfuUs  of  rofewater  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  fack  a  quart  of  good  ale  yeft  more 
yeft  if  not  very  good  a  pint  of  cream  boyled  and  cooled 
again  fome  fait  a  nutmeg  grated  and  fome  cloves  & 
mace  beaten  alfo  fmall  mixing  all  very  well  together 
and  warm  it  milk  warm  &  fo  pour  it  to  your  flour 
very  well  covering  it  up  warm  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
then  put  in  a  pound  of  raifons  of  the  Sun  floned  and 

127 


cut  fmall  3  pound  of  currants  clean  wafht  rubbed  and 
dryed  all  which  mixt  very  well  together  and  put  it 
into  a  paper  hoop  and  fet  it  in  a  oven  as  hot  as  for 
fmall  bread  and  let  it  ftand  one  hour  and  a  quarter 
which  will  be  long  enough. 

349.  Madame  Brewens  French  Way  to  make  ye 
Runnet  or  "Trifle  Cream. 

TAKE  the  bloflbmes  of  hartiechokes  when  they 
blow  and  keep  them  dry  all  ye  year  for  your  ufe 
as  you  do  other  flowers  and  when  you  would  make 
this  cream  put  a  few  of  thefe  blolTomes  in  about  a 
fpoonfull  of  flowers  to  a  pint  of  cream  or  new  milk 
and  it  will  turn  it  as  well  as  runnet  and  give  a  more 
pleafant  flavour. 

350.  Cowflips  into  Plummes  to  make  Wine, 

INSTEAD  of  cowflips  take  Plummes  and  flit  them 
and  put  them  into  a  vefl!el  with  a  tap  in  it  then 
take  as  many  gallons  of  water  to  your  Damfens  as 
you  pleafe  &  to  every  gallon  of  water  a  pound  of 
Powder  Sugar  and  boyle  it  till  it  be  clear  of  ye  Scumme 
then  pour  it  on  your  Damfens  into  your  vefl!el  boyling 
hot  firfl;  puting  in  with  your  Plummes  fome  raifons 
of  the  Sun  Stoned  fo  fl:op  it  up  5  or  6  days  then 
draw  it  off^  through  a  fl:rainer  and  when  the  vefl^el  is 
clean  pour  it  in  again  when  it's  fl:rain'd  and  fet  it  to 
working  with  a  toafl:  fpred  with  ale  yefl:  and  let  it 
worke  and  after  working  let  it  fl:and  4  or  5  days  a 
clearing  then  draw  it  into  bottles  and  put  a  raifon  of 
the  Sun  Stoned  and  a  nob  of  Sugar  in  each  bottle  & 
fl:op  it  loofly  2  or  3  days  elfe  they  will  fly  but  after- 
wards fliop  your  bottles  as  fafl:  as  you  can  and  fet  them 
very  coole.    Probatum  efl:  By  ye  Lady  Seymour. 


128 


2S^'  ^y  Lady  Seymours  Pancake. 

TAKE  12  yolkes  of  eggs  2  large  nutmegs  grated  a 
little  Salt  to  feafon  it  and  4  full  fpoonfull  of  Sugar 
beat  thefe  together  halfe  an  hour  then  ftir  in  as  much 
fine  flour  as  will  ftiffen  it  as  foft  as  a  pudding  then 
add  to  all  thefe  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Sack  &  beat  it 
in  till  it  be  well  mix'd  then  beat  in  cream  a  little  and 
little  till  it  comes  to  a  thin  batter  fo  fry  them  up  with 
a  quick  fire  either  with  beef  lard  or  frefh  butter  make 
your  pans  firft  hot  with  ordinary  batter  which  will 
make  your  beft  fry  the  better,  it  is  ye  beft  way  to 
make  them  eat  fhort  and  light  not  to  make  your  batter 
before  you  are  ready  to  fry  them  up. 

352.  My  Lady  Ffofters  Metheglin, 

TAKE  fo  much  clear  honey  in  cold  fpring  water  it 
mufl:  be  fuch  water  as  will  bear  foap  well  and 
mingle  your  water  and  honey  till  it  will  bear  an  Qgg 
when  your  honey  is  diflblved  in  your  water  cold  then 
put  it  in  a  kettle  and  boyle  it  2  hours  fl:ill  fcumming 
it  while  any  fcumme  will  rife  then  put  it  into  coolers 
and  when  coole  as  wort  to  every  1 2  gallons  of  liquor 
put  a  large  quarter  of  a  pint  of  ale  yeft  then  barrel  it 
up  filling  your  vefTel  not  full  about  3  fingers  breadth 
of  ye  bung  hole  and  hang  in  your  barrell  an  ounce 
and  half  of  nutmegs  groflly  beaten  in  a  bag  with  a 
bullet  or  the  like  to  keep  your  fpice  low  in  your  barrell 
fo  flop  it  up  and  at  the  years  end  drink  of  it  and  when 
you  draw  of  it  you  may  bottle  it  if  you  pleafe  the 
older  it  is  the  better  but  your  vefTel  muft  be  flop'd 
very  clofe  all  the  time  you  keep  it  and  Drink  not  of  it 
till  12  months  old.   Probatum  efl  by  ye  Lady  Downs. 

'^^2,  A  Metheglin  to  he  made  at  Barthollemew  Tide. 

TAKE  8  gallons  of  the  befl  fair  water  that  is  not 
harfh  for  the  better  the  water  the  better  your 
liquor  will  be  then  take  corriander  feeds  carraways  & 

129  K 


anyfeeds  of  each  half  a  fpoonfull  2  or  3  large  maces 
and  alfo  agremoney  fweet  marjerom  broad  time,  fweet 
brier  tops  pennyroyall  of  each  a  quarter  of  a  handful! 
a  few  double  violet  flowers  and  a  branch  or  2  of  rofe- 
mary  boyle  all  thefe  together  in  the  water  half  an 
hour  then  ftrain  it  through  a  ranger  then  fet  it  a  cool- 
ing till  it  be  almoft  cold  then  pour  it  from  the  bottom 
and  put  fo  much  honey  to  it  as  will  make  it  fo  flrong 
as  to  carry  an  egg  that  nothing  may  be  {een  of  it  but 
the  breadth  of  a  6  pence  then  boyle  it  again  and  let  it 
boyle  till  you  have  fcummed  it  clean  then  fet  it 
abroad  as  you  do  wort  to  coole  and  put  a  pint  of  ale 
barm  to  it  when  you  tun  it  into  the  barrell  put  into  a 
bag  fliced  ginger  nutmegs  cloves  mace  and  cinnamon 
and  likewife  a  ftone  to  weigh  down  the  bag  and  tye  a 
ftring  to  it  and  nail  it  to  ye  barrell  that  it  may  hang 
in  the  middle  and  when  it  hath  done  purging  mingle 
half  a  grain  of  muik  into  a  fpoonfull  of  the  liquor 
and  put  it  into  the  barrell  and  flop  it  up  very  clofe  it 
will  keep  long  and  be  very  good  to  y^  laft  ye  receipt 
is  to  put  the  barme  to  it  in  the  barrell  but  by  experi- 
ence it  is  found  the  befl:  way  to  put  the  barm  to  it 
before  you  tun  it  and  fet  it  to  working  in  a  little  cooler 
it  being  covered  clofe  and  fo  kept  covered  clofe  till  the 
barme  begin  to  flat  w*^^  will  be  3  or  4  days  &  then 
tun  it  into  the  barrell  &  if  it  worke  again  fl:op  it  not 
till  it  hath  done  working. 

354.  To  pre/erve  Grapes  for  all  the  Tear. 

TAKE  fair  clufl:ers  of  grapes  and  lay  them  in  a 
platter  then  cafl:  fugar  on  them  &  fo  put  them  into 
a  hot  oven  now  and  then  pouring  the  liquor  from  them 
then  turn  them  and  cafl:  more  fugar  on  them  as  before 
then  take  that  liquid  fubftance  and  make  a  firrop  of  it 
and  when  your  firrop  is  cold  put  in  your  grapes  &  fo 
keep  them  all  the  year. 

130 


355-  ^  Marrow  Pudding, 

TAKE  the  marrow  out  of  the  bones  and  after  boyle 
the  bones  and  take  of  the  fat  that  rifeth  in  the 
boyling  then  take  the  fat  of  the  fheeps  guts  and  fhred 
it  very  fmall  then  mingle  it  with  manchet  crums  being 
grat*d  and  nutmegs  cloves  mace  and  fome  Sugar 
(mulk  if  you  pleafe)  and  a  few  currants  but  you  muft 
firft  Plump  your  currants  becaufe  all  the  other  in- 
gredients require  but  little  boyling  add  fome  rofe- 
water  to  your  fpices  and  fugar  thefe  puddings  muft 
not  be  cut  in  eating  but  fuckt  out  otherwife  the 
marrow  will  run  out  which  is  all  their  goodnefs. 

356.   'To  Candie  Irringoe  Roots, 

TAKE  your  roots  new  gathered  without  joints  or 
knots  boyle  them  tender  in  fair  water  but  let 
your  water  firft  boyle  before  you  put  them  in  then 
peel  them  and  flit  them  and  wafti  them  in  2  or  3 
waters  dry  them  with  a  cloth  then  take  twice  as  much 
fugar  and  when  your  fugar  is  refined  boyle  them  in 
one  half  till  they  be  tender  and  clear  and  make  a 
firrop  of  the  other  half  to  the  hight  of  manus  Chrifti 
that  is  till  it  will  draw  off  as  fine  as  a  hair  then  put  in 
your  roots  again  and  boyle  them  and  when  you  find 
them  enough  take  them  up  and  fliake  them  in  a 
bafon  till  they  be  pretty  dry  after  lay  them  on  papers 
till  they  be  quite  dry. 

357.   To  make  a  Sweetmeat  like  Ra/hers  of  Bacon. 

TAKE  fome  of  your  marflipane  pafte  rowle  it  in 
fanders  till  it  be  red  then  rowle  abroad  3  rowles 
of  the  red  and  4  of  the  white  and  fo  lay  a  white 
and  red  &  when  all  is  fo  lay'd  cut  them  a  thwart 
in  thin  flices  and  dry  them  &  it  will  be  like. 


131 


3 5 8.  ^0  Preferve  Oranges  in  Jelly. 

TAKE  thick  rind  oranges  pare  or  grate  them  very- 
thin  lay  them  in  water  3  or  4  days  then  boyle 
them  tender  in  fair  water  then  take  them  out  and  put 
them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  all  night  next  day  dry 
them  with  a  cloth  put  them  into  fo  much  clarified 
Sugar  as  will  cover  them  fo  let  them  boyle  foberly 
clofe  cover'd  now  and  then  turning  them  then  let 
them  ftand  in  an  earthen  pann  all  night  the  next  day 
fet  them  on  the  fire  again  &  when  you  fee  them  look 
clear  &  tender  then  pour  them  into  a  Sive  and  let  your 
firrop  drain  from  them  then  put  a  quart  of  apple 
water  into  that  firrop  and  a  pound  of  frefh  Sugar  & 
that  will  make  your  oranges  lay  in  quaking  jelly 
when  it  boyled  with  the  other  firrop. 

359.  Mat  hew  Cariers  Ollio  or  Pottage. 

TAKE  13  pound  of  beef  fliced  fmall  and  boyle 
out  the  gravie  of  it  then  fl:rain  it  and  ftew  in  that 
broth  6  fweet  breads  12  Squobe  pigeons  6  pair  of 
Lamb  fl:ones  6  fheeps  tongues  and  pallets,  8  marrow 
bones  the  bones  boyle  with  your  beef  before  you 
ftrain  it  and  then  take  them  out  and  ferve  them  in  ye 
broth  with  the  forementioned  ingredients  in  your 
fi:rain'd  broth  and  feafon  it  with  convenient  Salt  and 
Sweet  Spices  and  put  manchet  cut  grofily  in  it  and 
raw  cuccumber  iflT  in  feafon  or  a  few  green  peafe  or 
the  like  and  fo  fl;ew  altogether  &  then  ferve  it  in  hot 
as  pofilble  &  be  fure  to  have  broth  enough  therefore 
rather  more  than  lefs  beef. 

360.  'To  make  Sugar  Jumhalls. 

TAKE  the  befl:  fort  of  gume  dragon  the  weight  of 
6  pence  fl:eep  it  in  a  good  fpoonfuU  of  rofe  or 
orange  flower  water  then  beat  an  ^gg  to  froth  and 
let  it  fl:and  to  fettle  put  the  juice  of  a  fair  lemon  into 
it  and  when  it  hath  fl:ood  a  while  fl:rain  it  out  clear 

132 


then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  double  refined 
Sugar  well  fifted  put  it  into  a  marble  morter  with 
fome  ambergreefe  prepared  then  put  in  your  gum 
and  a  little  fpoonfull  of  the  pure  froth  of  the  egg  fo 
grind  it  altogether  now  and  then  puting  in  a  fpoon- 
full of  fugar  which  you  muft  keep  out,  if  it  grow  dry 
in  ye  doing  put  in  a  drop  or  2  of  juice  of  Lemon  in 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  they  will  beat  eafie  iift  fome 
fugar  on  a  paper  take  out  the  ftufF  which  muft  be  as 
thick  as  pap  rowle  it  with  your  fingers  into  what 
form  you  pleafe  but  firft  fift  Sugar  on  your  paper  you 
bake  them  on  and  fet  them  in  the  oven  when  white 
bread  comes  forth  when  they  rife  they  are  enough 
and  when  you  take  them  off  the  papers  and  your 
oven  cooled  fet  them  in  again  one  night. 

361.  To  make  Goofeberry  Wine. 

TAKE  a  fkillet  with  a  quart  or  3  pints  of  goof- 
berries  full  ripe  to  a  quart  of  Spring  water  fet 
them  on  a  foft  fire  and  let  them  ftand  till  the  water 
tafte  fharpe  of  y^  goofberrys  but  let  them  not  break 
to  pieces  for  that  will  make  your  liquor  thick  then 
ftrain  it  and  boyle  it  again  half  as  clear  then  fet  it  in 
an  earthen  pan  leting  it  ftand  till  the  next  day  then 
botde  it  up  with  3  ounces  of  Sugar  to  each  bottle. 
Stop  it  not  till  it  hath  done  working  but  then  very 
clofe.    redd  gooft^erries  make  a  very  pretty  wine. 

362.  Balls  to  take  Stains  out  of  Linnen, 

TAKE  4  ounces  of  hard  white  foap  beat  it  in  a 
morter  with  2  fmall  lemons  the  outward  peel 
pared  off  and  as  much  rock  allome  as  a  fmall  nut  and 
when  all  thefe  are  well  mixt  make  it  up  in  balls 
Rubbing  the  ftains  therewith  wetting  it  in  fair  warme 
water  till  you  fee  all  out. 


133 


363.  To  Pickle  Green  A/hen  Keys,  Elder  Budsy  Broom 
Buds,  or  ye  like, 

TAKE  any  of  them  feverall  and  put  them  in  linnen 
bags  let  them  lay  in  vinegar  &  fait  8  or  9  days 
then  fet  them  in  a  pot  of  water  clofe  covered  on  a 
gentle  fire  till  they  look  green  which  will  not  be 
under  a  day  or  2^  greening  and  when  they  are  cold 
put  them  in  the  pickle  which  muft  be  the  vinegar  and 
fait  they  were  fteep'd  in  very  well  boyled. 

364.  To  Preferve  White  Pear  Plummes  Green, 

TAKE  them  about  the  end  of  July  or  when  they 
are  at  their  full  bignefs  wipe  them  well  then  fet 
on  a  fkellet  of  fair  water  and  when  it  boyles  put  in 
your  Plummes  and  cover  them  up  clofe  and  when  your 
plumme  begins  to  blifter  take  them  out  of  the  water 
and  peel  off  their  fkins  then  weigh  them  and  to  every 
pound  of  plummes  allow  a  pound  and  2  ounces  of 
Sugar  well  beaten  then  fet  on  a  fkillet  of  water  and 
when  it  begins  to  boyle  then  put  in  your  plummes 
again  and  let  them  boyle  foftly  till  they  change  their 
colour  from  yellow  to  green  then  take  them  off  and 
cover  them  clofe  and  let  them  ftand  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  then  ftrew  on  a  handfull  or  2  of  your  weighed 
Sugar  on  your  plummes  in  the  preferving  pan  you 
will  preferve  them  in  laying  them  one  by  one  in 
your  pan  on  your  firft  part  of  your  fugar  and  then 
throw  on  the  2^  part  over  them  and  as  much  water  as 
will  diflblve  your  fugar  and  let  them  boyle  foftly 
leaft  they  break  in  lefs  than  i  hour  they  will  be 
enough  as  you  will  find  by  the  greenefs  of  the  firrop 
then  take  out  your  plummes  and  put  in  your  laft 
quantity  of  Sugar  to  clear  and  thicken  your  firrop 
and  pour  it  on  your  plummes  in  your  pot  and  when 
through  cold  tye  them  clofe  &  keep  them  for  your 
ufe  but  if  your  firrop  grow  thin  never  boyle  your 
firrop  &  pour  it  hot  on  your   plummes  &  befure 

134 


when  you  preferve  them  to  boyle  them  in  fuch  a  pan 
as  you  may  lay  them  one  by  one  y*  you  may  turn 
them  as  you  fee  occafion. 

365.  'To  Candie  Flowers, 

TAKE  the  flowers  on  the  Stalk  and  wafh  them  in 
rofewater  wherein  gumarrabeck  hath  been  fteep'd 
then  take  fine  Sugar  candie  fearch  it  after  finely 
beaten  on  your  flowers  and  fet  them  a  drying  in 
the  bottom  of  a  five  in  an  oven  after  the  bread  is 
drawn  and  the  oven  cold  and  they  will  glitter  and 
look  well. 

2,66.  A  Sack  Pojfet. 

TAKE  6  Naples  Bifkit  beaten  in  a  morter  and 
boyle  it  in  2  quarts  of  cream  till  it  be  thick  then 
have  ale  and  Sack  ready  fweetned  and  warm  &  a  few 
eggs  let  your  cream  coole  elfe  your  eggs  will  be  hard 
&  to  a  quart  of  cream  you  mufl  have  a  pint  of  ale 
and  Sack  pour  it  in  your  bafon  ftir  it  a  little  &  fo 
ferve  it  in. 

367.  To  make  Barberrie  Wine. 

TAKE  20  quarts  of  water  and  10  pound  of  Sugar 
boyle  it  half  an  hour  and  fcume  it  then  take 
10  quarts  of  barberries  mull  them  in  an  earthen  flew- 
ing  pot  y'^  bruife  them  and  put  your  liquor  on  them 
very  hot  and  when  cold  as  wort  put  in  some  yeft  and 
fet  it  a  working  and  when  it  hath  done  working  flop 
it  up  clofe  and  after  3  weeks  bottle  &  keep  So  may 
you  do  with  currance  or  Rafberrys  only  with  a  pound 
lefs  of  Sugar  than  the  barberries  wine. 

368.  To  make  Apricocke  Wine, 

TAKE  to  every  pint  of  water  10  or  12  apricockes 
let  it  boyle  gently  at  firft  after  a  pace  till  it  be 
ftrong  of  the  fruit  then  let  it  ftand  and  take  of  the 


clear  and  bottle  it  to  a  bottle  take  an  ounce  and  half 
of  Sugar  and  ftop  it  clofe.  The  firrop  y*  comes  from 
dryed  apricocks  put  in  white  wine  and  bottled  a 
month  is  very  good. 

369.  "To  make  a  Conjerve  of  Clove  Jilly  Flowers  as 
an  excellent  CordialL 

TAKE  to  every  ounce  of  flowers  all  the  white  cut 
off  3  ounces  of  fugar  beat  them  very  fmall  fo 
keep  them  to  a  pound  which  put  into  an  earthen  or 
fllver  bafon  fet  it  over  the  fire  ftir  it  till  the  Sugar 
diffolve  and  to  a  pound  put  an  ounce  and  half  of 
powder  of  cloves  a  grain  and  half  of  civet  a  grain  and 
half  of  beafzer  half  a  grain  of  unicorns  horn  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon  mingle  all  well  together  and  keep  it 
for  your  ufe. 

370.  Apricockes  the  beft  way  to  preferve  in  Jelly. 

TAKE  apricockes  before  full  ripe  pare  them  and 
cut  them  in  halves  &  lay  them  in  double  refined 
Sugar  ^nd-y  beaten  to  a  pound  of  apricockes  3  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  Sugar  let  them  ftand  all  night  and  if 
you  have  not  jelly  of  white  currance  take  the  worfer 
fort  of  apricockes  pale  in  colour  and  flice  them  thin 
and  to  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flices  take  half  a 
pound  of  Sugar  put  them  in  a  filver  bafon  and  fet 
them  on  the  fire  till  the  Sugar  be  melted  and  when  it 
is  fcaulding  hot  ftrain  the  firrop  from  your  apricocks 
and  fet  it  by  till  your  half  apricocks  boyle  then  put 
your  firrop  to  them  and  boyle  it  together  till  your 
apricocks  be  clear  they  muft  be  very  well  fcummed  to 
a  pound  of  halves  take  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flices 
put  your  halves  in  glafles  &  ftrain  your  firrop  to  them 
through  a  tiffeny. 


136 


371-  'To  pickle  Violets  for  Sallets, 

CUT  your  ftalks  very  clofe  put  them  in  a  glafs 
ftrew  fome  Sugar  on  y^  mingled  with  a  little  Salt 
fo  do  till  ail  be  in  then  pour  on  your  vinegar  a  pint 
of  vinegar  to  half  a  pound  of  fugar  and  prefs  them 
down  till  the  flowers  finke  which  they  will  in  4  or 
5  days. 

372.  "To  preferve  Goojberrys  in  Jelly. 

TAKE  the  faireft  goofberries  ftone  them  into  fair 
water  to  every  pound  of  the  berrie  3  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  double  refined  fugar  and  put  a  little  fair 
water  to  it  when  it  boyles  put  in  3  quarters  of  pound 
of  meafur'd  goofberrys  and  boyle  them  in  your  firrop 
till  they  are  all  broken  then  ftrain  out  your  firrop  and 
fet  it  by  then  take  to  a  pound  of  your  fl:oned  goof- 
berrys a  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar  put  it  in  your 
bafon  fet  it  on  the  fire  with  very  little  water  when  it 
boyles  and  is  clear  fcummed  put  in  your  ftoned  goof- 
berries as  it  boyles  fo  let  it  boyle  till  they  are  clear 
then  put  to  them  the  firrop  you  fet  by  let  them  boyle 
a  little  together  then  glafs  them  up  you  mufl:  do  but 
a  row  at  a  time  ye  berry  muft  turn  white. 

373.  "To  preferve  Goojberries. 

TAKE  fair  goofberries  floned  into  fair  water  and 
to  one  pound  of  the  berries  3  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  jelly  of  red  currance  or  juice  and  to  a  pound  of 
Goofberries  and  this  jelly  take  a  pound  and  half  of 
Sugar  put  your  Sugar  into  a  filver  bafon  wet  it  with 
a  little  water  and  when  it  boyls  and  is  fcummed  put 
in  your  goofberries  and  in  a  little  time  your  jelly  or 
juice  of  currance  and  when  they  are  boyled  enough 
flrain  your  jelly  to  them  but  if  you  put  juice  of 
currance  you  mufl  allow  proportionable  Sugar  more 
to  it. 

137 


374-  -^  Pippin  drink, 

TAKE  20  pippins  large  ones  cut  them  in  halves 
into  an  earthen  pipkin  that  will  hold  2  gallons 
then  fill  it  up  with  Spring  water  and  let  it  boyle  over 
a  gentle  fire  till  all  the  vertue  be  out  of  the  pippins 
then  ftrain  it  into  an  earthen  pan  pare  a  lemon  put  in 
half  the  peel  and  flice  in  2  or  3  lemons  being  firft 
pared  clean  fweeten  it  well  with  refined  fugar  and  let 
it  ftand  then  take  out  the  lemon  and  bottle  it  up  for 
your  Spending. 

375.  To  make  Vinegar  of  Unripe  Grapes, 

TAKE  them  and  pound  them  and  prefs  them 
through  a  hair  bag  as  yo  do  Sider  then  put  into 
every  4  gallons  as  much  allome  as  a  wallnut  then 
boyle  it  well  and  fcumme  as  the  fcumme  rifeth  as 
clear  as  poffible  coole  it  and  when  through  cold  tun  it 
up  and  keep  it  till  it  is  fteal  and  fit  for  ufe  very  clofe 
ftopt  and  it  will  be  very  good. 

376.  A  ReT  of  Harts  Home  Jelly. 

TAKE  fhaved  harts  home  half  a  pound  to  five 
pints  of  water  the  which  boyle  very  leafurely  till 
half  be  wafted  then  put  in  a  little  red  rofe  water  and 
then  give  it  a  walme  or  2  more  then  ftrain  it  you  may 
add  juice  of  Lemons  &  fine  Sugar  and  eat  it  cold  or 
diftblve  it  and  drink  it  warm  w^  you  pleafe. 

377.  Hhe  Countefs  of  Kent s  Lozenges  for  a  Cold, 

TAKE  1 2  ounces  of  liquorifti  fcraped  and  bruifed 
a  little  then  take  half  a  pint  of  coltfoot  water  red 
rofe  water  hyfop  water  of  each  half  a  pint  2  quarts  of 
fair  water  fo  put  them  altogether  with  your  liquorifh 
&  let  it  fteep  24  hours  then  fet  it  on  the  fire  and  let 
it  boyle  very  foftly  till  it  be  as  thick  as  cream  then 
ftrain  out  the  juice  clean  from  the  liquorifti  and  fet  it 

138 


on  the  fire  again  puting  in  2  grains  of  ambergreefe  as 
much  allkermes  as  a  large  bean  let  it  not  boyle  but 
ftand  till  it  be  well  incorporated  then  put  it  out  into 
2  or  3  pans  and  fet  it  in  the  fun  till  it  thicken  to 
worke  like  wax  y^  make  it  into  little  cakes  it  will 
keep  it's  vertue  many  years  but  if  in  drying  in  the 
fun  a  drop  of  water  or  rain  chance  to  fall  on  any  of 
it,  it  will  never  come  to  good.  Aproved  by  the  Lady 
Elizabeth  Cope  to  add  half  a  pint  of  whorehound 
water. 

378.  'To  make  Cherry  Wine, 

TAKE  of  the  beft  fort  of  cherries  full  ripe  Stone 
them  then  breake  them  to  mafh  and  let  them 
ftand  all  night  in  fomething  that  will  not  change  the 
colour  of  the  cherrie  liquor  next  day  ftrain  them  out 
in  a  jelly  bagg  &  prefs  out  all  the  juice  let  it  run 
upon  Sugar  and  to  every  gallon  put  a  pound  of 
Sugar  then  tun  it  up  ftop  it  up  clofe  and  let  it  ftand 
a  month  or  6  weeks  then  draw  it  out  into  bottles  & 
in  every  bottle  put  a  little  loaf  Sugar  &  ftop  it  up 
clofe. 

379.  The  Portugal  Cake, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  loafe  Sugar  beat  and  fearch  it 
very  fine  through  a  five  w*^  a  pound  of  very  well 
dryed  and  fine  flour  that  the  Sugar  and  flour  may  be 
well  mingled  together  then  take  a  pound  of  butter 
and  wafli  it  well  in  rofe  water  and  then  worke  it  with 
your  hand  till  it  be  very  foft  then  ftrew  your  flour 
and  Sugar  in  by  degrees  till  it  be  half  in  then  put  in 
6  yolkes  of  eggs  and  but  4  whites  then  by  degrees 
worke  in  the  other  half  of  flour  and  Sugar  and  when 
the  oven  is  hot  or  ready  put  in  2  fpoonfulls  of  rofe- 
water  and  a  pound  of  currants  or  3  quarters  of  carra- 
way  comfits  which  you  like  beft  and  have  your  plats 
ready  buttered  and  fill  them  but  half  full  &  fift  on 

139 


fome  double  refined  Sugar  on  them  let  the  oven  be 
pretty  hot  and  fet  up  the  Lid  thefe  will  keep  and 
Spend  well. 

380.   To  Cure  the  Heart  Burning, 

TAKE  of  the  Stone  under  the  crafilh  eyes  taken 
from  the  crafifh  when  the  Sun  is  in  cancer  is  beft 
take  as  much  of  thefe  ftones  in  powder  as  will  lay  on 
a  6  pence  in  a  morning  and  faft  after  it  in  fome  fmall 
ale  poflet  drink  or  burrage  water  aproved  in  its  cure 
and  the  quality  of  the  ftone  in  powder  it  will  turn 
vinegar  fweet  if  fteep'd  in  it. 

381.  A  Cream  Cheeje, 

TAKE  a  gallon  of  ftroakings  and  2  quarts  of  cream 
you  muft  take  a  pint  of  new  milk  and  put  to  your 
cream  your  cream  muft  be  very  fweet  cream  then 
take  as  many  pickt  marigold  flowers  as  you  can  hold 
in  your  hands  pound  them  and  ftrain  them  into  the 
ftroakings  you  muft  but  boyle  up  your  cream  and  run 
it  up  almoft  fcaulding  hot  you  muft  not  breake  your 
curd  but  cut  it  a  crofs  and  a  thwart  into  your  vate 
about  an  inch  deep  your  vate  muft  be  So  fet  it  in  ye 
prefs  &  when  you  take  it  out  you  muft  keep  it  in 
rufhes  it  will  be  ready  in  10  days  or  a  fortnight. 

382.  The  Lady  AJhfields  Almond  Puffs^  Jumhalls 
Beaten  Small  with  Rofe  Water  or  Orange  Flower 
Water, 

TAKE  5  or  6  almonds  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Sugar  a  quarter  of  the  white  of  an  ^^^  froth'd  fo 
made  up  and  dryed  in  an  oven.  Her  Angelicoe  cakes 
thus  pour  your  angeligoe  into  hot  water  to  green 
boyle  your  Sugar  to  a  candy  hight  chop  your  angeli- 
goe when  green'd  and  peeled  &  fo  boyle  them  in 
your  firrop  and  drop  them  into  cakes  and  ftrew  them 
till  dry  &  they  will  keep  all  the  year. 

140 


383.  'The  Lady  Fufts  Hipoccras. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  white  wine  and  as  much  Sherry- 
Sack  put  to  it  an  ounce  of  ginger  of  nutmegs 
cloves  and  cinnamon  an  ounce  ftir  it  altogether  & 
let  it  ftand  22  hours  then  put  them  to  a  wine  quart 
of  milk  ftir  it  well  then  ftrain  it  through  a  jelly  bag 
which  hath  a  fprig  of  rofemarie  in  it  fo  bottle  it  up 
add  if  you  like  it  a  little  bag  of  mufk  &  ambergreefe 
into  each  bottle. 

384.  To  Pickle  Oyjiers. 

TAKE  a  peck  of  oyfters  take  a  care  you  cut  them 
not  in  y®  opening  Save  the  liquor  that  comes 
from  them  wafh  your  oyfters  in  a  pint  of  elder  or 
white  wine  vinegar  mingle  your  oyfter  liquor  and 
vinegar  together  and  ftrain  it  add  to  it  a  pint  of  fair 
water  put  to  your  liquor  3  blades  of  mace  6  cloves 
fome  whole  pepper  and  Salt  to  your  tafte  let  them 
boyle  a  quarter  of  an  hour  till  they  are  tender  take 
them  off^  the  fire  &  when  they  are  cold  pott  them.  Ye 
Lady  Downs  thinks  Jamaca  pepper  better  than  the 
black  or  white  pepper. 

385.  To  make  Elder  Vinegar. 

TO  a  gallon  of  white  wine  vinegar  put  a  quarter 
of  a  peck  of  dryed  elder  flowers  fteep  them  3  days 
clofe  cover'd  the  4th  diftill  it  oiF  it  will  be  clear  as 
rock  water  and  very  quick  and  ftiarpe. 

386.  To  Dry  Orringo  Roots, 

TAKE  the  roots  of  the  youngeft  Springing  boyling 
them  tender  and  peel  them  picking  and  wafh 
them  and  Shape  them  in  a  bafon  with  fome  warme 
water  and  their  weight  in  Sugar  let  them  boyle  now 
and  then  turning  them  and  when  the  Sugar  begins  to 
confume  Shake  them  as  you  do  peafe  to  butter  which 

141 


fhaking  will  work  the  Sugar  into  them  then  lay 
them  before  the  fire  in  halfe  a  day  you  box  them  up 
as  dry. 

387.   I'd  Dry  a  Gamon  of  Bacon, 

FIRST  lay  your  gamon  a  foaking  in  a  ftrong  brine 
a  week  then  hang  it  up  raw  and  fait  it  well  with 
bay  fait  then  let  it  lay  a  fortnight  then  hang  it  up  & 
Smoake  it  with  green  broome  then  boyle  it  with  rain 
water  you  muft  Smoake  it  4  or  5  times  with  the 
broome. 

388.  To  Dry  Neat's  'Tongues. 

TAKE  12  large  tongues  and  make  a  ftrong  brine 
for  them  of  bay  fait  &  water  fo  ftrong  as  to  bare 
an  ^gg  and  add  to  it  half  a  pound  of  peeter  firft 
cleanfe  your  tongues  from  all  flimenefs  then  put  them 
into  the  brine  prefling  y^  down  to  keep  under  the 
liquor  and  let  them  lay  in  it  a  month  then  take  them 
and  dry  them  to  keep  for  your  ufe. 

389.   To  make  Almond  Jomhalls, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  vallentia  almonds  and  as 
many  Jordan  almonds  put  them  in  a  fkellet  of 
boyling  water  and  blanch  them  as  faft  as  you  can  put 
them  in  3  feveral  waters  then  beat  them  as  fmall  as 
may  be  but  keep  them  from  oyling  by  puting  in  often 
fome  rofe  water  and  fair  water  Soake  fome  gume 
dragon  in  fome  rofe  water  and  fair  water  mingled 
then  take  a  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar  Siveted 
through  a  tiflPanie  five  then  take  half  your  almonds 
&  half  your  Sugar  put  it  on  a  chaffendifh  of  coles  in 
a  pewter  difti  when  it  is  well  diflblved  put  in  fome  of 
your  gumme  and  mingle  it  very  well  beat  the  whites 
of  10  eggs  to  a  froth  and  put  them  in  keeping  it  ftill 
ftiring  till  it  be  ftiff  to  mould  let  it  ftand  till  it  be 
near  cold  Sive  fome  Sugar  on  a  paper  and  make  them 

142 


up  if  you  like  colliander  or  any  other  feed  you  may 
add  to  them  if  you  pleafe. 

To  make  cakes  of  the  other  half  Take  the  other 
half  of  your  almonds  and  Sugar  mingle  it  well  but 
fet  it  not  on  the  fire  till  the  oven  be  hot  and  fweep- 
ing  then  have  ready  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth  mingle  it  with  the  cakes  then  fift  fome  fine 
Sugar  on  a  pye  plate  drop  it  on  the  plate  fift  fome 
Sugar  on  them  fo  fet  them  in  your  oven  make  your 
jomballs  firft  the  cakes  muft  be  baked  as  foon  as  made 
the  almonds  will  require  half  a  day  to  beat  them. 

390.  'To  Dry  Apricocks. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  apricocks  before  full  ripe  half 
a  pound  of  the  beft  Sugar  Scauld  your  apricocks 
in  fair  water  after  they  are  pared  then  dry  them  in  a 
cloth  then  boyle  them  in  a  Sirrop  of  that  Sugar  &  fo 
dry  y^  in  y®  fun  or  ftove. 

391.   To  Ice  Cakes, 

TAKE  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of  double  refined 
Sugar  Sifted  through  tiffany  put  it  into  a  por- 
renger  have  ready  2  penny  worth  of  gum  dragon 
fteep'd  in  rofe  water  4  days  with  fome  mulke  or 
ambergreefe  beat  it  together  till  it  be  very  white  this 
will  glaze  jomballs  or  cakes  or  anything. 

392.  To  Prejerve  Grapes  Green. 

TO  a  pound  of  grapes  take  half  a  pound  of  Sugar 
after  they  are  fcummed  and  ftoned  put  them  in 
your  Sugar  without  water  fet  them  on  a  quick  fire 
and  boyle  them  as  faft  as  you  can  firft  they  will  look 
like  Scaulded  goofberries  afterwards  very  clear  after 
that  as  if  they  were  burnt  but  by  long  boyling  they 
will  come  to  a  very  good  green  colour  and  then  they 
are  enough,  aproved  as  ye  beft  way  to  preferve 
grapes. 

143 


393*  ^^  ^O  ■Psyches, 

GREEN  them  as  other  fruit  put  a  little  Sugar  in 
the  water  it  will  do  the  better  when  they  are  ten- 
der you  may  wipe  off  the  fkin  make  with  3  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  Sugar  a  Sirrop  for  a  pound  of  peaches 
when  they  a  little  tender  ftone  them  boyle  them  till 
they  are  half  enough  then  put  them  in  a  pot  clofe 
covered  where  they  may  ftand  warme  3  or  4  days  take 
half  a  pound  of  Sugar  make  more  Sirrop  drain  them 
from  the  old  then  put  them  in  a  clean  pot  pour  ye  other 
Sirrop  boyling  hot  on  them  cover  them  up  clofe  put 
the  pot  on  embers  a  while  then  keep  them  in  a  ftove. 

394.  1^0  make  Almond  Cake, 

TAKE  a  peck  of  fine  flour  dry'd  6  pounds  of 
almonds  blancht  and  beaten  with  rofewater  a  pint 
of  Sack  4  pints  of  ale  barme  breake  in  4  pound  of 
butter  carraway  feeds  and  what  fpice  you  pleafe  mingle 
all  well  together  10  pound  of  currants  after  it  hath 
rifen  &  fome  chopt  raifons  will  make  it  moift  and 
fome  Salt. 

395.  T(3  make  Jockallato  drink, 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  as  much  fair  water 
put  both  into  a  glafs  bottle  fet  it  in  a  fkellet  of 
water  when  it  boyles  put  to  it  an  ounce  of  jockallato 
finely  fcraped  2  eggs  and  2  ounces  of  Sugar  beat  them 
very  well  together  and  put  it  into  your  water  in  the 
bottle  {baking  it  together  till  it  be  coole  enough  to 
drink. 

396.  'To  make  Sugar  Cakes, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  flour  a  quarter  of  Sugar  as 
much  butter  6  fpoonfuUs  of  rofewater  make  it 
into  paflie  and  bake  them  on  plates  it  will  make  24. 

144 


397-  ^^  ^^^^  Almond  Tarts, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  cream  and  a  quarter  &:  half  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  blancht  almonds  beaten  very 
fmall  with  a  little  rofewater  and  cold  cream  put  them 
to  the  boyling  cream  with  the  yolkes  of  6  eggs  let  it 
boyle  till  it  be  pretty  thick  ftill  ftiring  it  then  take  it 
from  the  fire  and  put  in  a  grain  of  mufk  diflblved  in 
a  little  rofewater  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fweet 
butter  Sugar  to  your  tafte  your  cruft  muft  be  made 
with  an  ^^g  a  little  butter  &  fair  water  to  your  flour 
then  raife  your  dough  of  what  fafhion  you  pleafe  a 
little  higher  than  bifkit  pans  &  put  no  leds  to  it  but 
pin  them  up  in  papers  to  keep  them  up  in  y®  oven  a 
little  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  bake  them. 

398.  To  make  Jellies, 

TAKE  a  log  of  veal  and  a  pair  of  calves  feet  boyle 
them  in  4  gallons  of  water  and  let  it  boyle  4  or 
5  hours  till  it  is  a  ftrong  jellie  then  fl:rain  it  out 
through  a  linnen  cloth  and  let  it  ftand  a  little  while 
and  take  off  the  fat  as  clean  as  you  can  then  put  in  an 
ounce  of  whole  cinnamon  &  the  juice  of  6  lemons  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar  but  I  think 
rather  white  wine  a  little  Salt  half  a  pound  of  white 
Sugar  boyle  all  thefe  in  a  ftew  pan  or  Skillet  a  little 
while  then  put  in  the  whites  of  20  eggs  pretty  well 
beaten  and  let  it  boyle  half  a  quarter  of  an  hour  then 
put  it  into  your  jelly  bag  and  hang  it  as  near  the  fire 
as  you  can  &  let  it  run  into  a  large  difh  when  it  is  all 
run  out  put  it  into  a  flue  pan  again  &  clear  it  again 
with  the  whites  of  6  eggs  then  put  it  into  your  jelly 
bag  again  then  what  you  intend  fhall  be  clear  let  it 
run  into  a  mazarine  or  flat  difli  &  what  you  would 
have  white  let  it  run  through  almonds  finely  beaten 
and  fl:rain  your  jelly  through  them  in  a  cloth  into  the 
difh  you  will  ferve  it  in  and  you  mufl  have  Scooped 

145  L 


oringes  and  lemons  &  egg  fhells  and  fill  them  with 
jelly  of  feveral  colours  as  you  will  have  them. 

To  make  the  red  take  half  an  ounce  of  Kucheneall 
half  an  ounce  of  Roach  allome  half  an  ounce  of  cream 
of  tartar  boyle  all  thefe  in  a  pint  of  water  till  half  be 
confumed  then  put  it  into  a  glafs  and  flop  it  clofe  & 
it  will  keep  a  year. 

399.  Friccafies  or  Veal  Collops, 

HACKE  or  chop  your  veal  colops  and  grate  nut- 
meg over  it  then  heat  in  your  frying  white  wine 
butter  Anchovefe  and  Shallot  and  capers  with  your 
meat  ftill  fhaking  your  pan  as  the  liquor  may  thicken 
then  when  your  meat  is  fryed  enough  from  being  raw 
(for  if  to  long  it  will  make  it  hard)  then  take  more 
white  wine  nutmeg  and  the  yolks  or  3  eggs  and  beat 
them  into  your  pan  and  fhake  all  very  well  together 
and  So  Serve  it  in  you  may  mince  your  capers  if  you 
pleafe  and  rabits  or  chickens  eat  well  fo. 

400.  S*"  Edward  Guji's  Cor  di  all  for  Old  and  Toung, 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  conferve  of  red  rofes  a  dram  of 
Diafcordium  &  a  Scruple  of  confection  of  all- 
kermes  incorporate  all  thefe  well  together  then  pot  it 
up  for  your  ufe  and  take  the  quantity  of  a  nutmeg  laft 
at  night  when  any  faintinefs  is  on  the  Spirits  or 
Stomache. 

401.  A  Oringe  Pudding  or  Lemon, 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  loafe  Sugar  fift'd  and  dryed 
4  ounces  of  Lammas  wheat  flour  finely  fift'd  and 
dryed  very  well  6 .  ounces  of  frefh  butter  and  the 
yolkes  of  4  new  laid  eggs  and  the  whites  of  7  beat 
your  butter  in  a  bowle  till  it  be  like  pap  not  heat  at 
all  but  raw  with  2  fpoonfulls  of  Sack  and  2  of  rofe- 
water  you  may  infufe  fome  clovejilly  flowers  in  your 

146 


rofewater  to  make  it  look  brown  when  your  butter  Is 
beat  like  pap  then  you  muft  put  in  your  4  yolkes  and 
7  whites  of  egg  and  beat  them  up  together  till  it's  a 
little  mingled  then  put  in  the  Sugar  then  the  flour 
and  keep  beating  of  it  upwards  as  for  Bifkit  it  muft 
not  be  Slackned  in  the  beating  but  beat  an  hour  then 
take  the  peel  of  2  oringes  candied  or  raw  but  if  raw 
boyle  out  the  bitternefs  fhred  in  your  peel  but  put  it 
not  in  till  the  laft  and  then  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  2 
oringes  if  you  have  any  when  it  is  beat  an  hour  and 
half  and  your  peel  in  you  may  add  perfume  and  have 
a  pound  of  flour  4  ounces  of  butter  2  eggs  whites 
and  yolkes  2  fpoonfulls  of  Sack  make  it  up  in  pafte 
cover  the  difh  with  it  very  thin  bottom  and  brims  and 
put  your  pudding  in  a  flat  broad  difli  and  cover  it 
with  fome  of  the  fame  pafte  a  little  thicker  at  top  fet 
it  in  an  oven  hot  enough  for  manchet  &  3  quarters  of 
an  hour  will  bake  it. 

402.  The  Lady  Longs  way  of  drying  a  Gamon 
of  Bacon. 

LET  it  be  as  long  as  you  can  unfalt'd  if  it  take 
wind  a  little  the  better  provided  it  taint  not  then 
fait  it  leafurely  by  degrees  moderately  with  bay 
fait  and  fome  peeter  fait  if  you  pleafe  then  gently  Dry 
it  and  when  you  boyle  it  change  it  out  of  boyling 
into  cold  waters  divers  times  w^^  will  make  it  look  ye 
reder. 

403.  To  fry e  Venijon, 

FIRST  flice  it  then  flour't  through  a  tin  drudge 
then  fry  it  in  frefli  butter  untill  it  is  a  little  crifped 
then  pour  away  that  butter  then  put  to  it  a  little 
gravey  nutmeg,  muftard,  and  Sugar  and  So  Serve  it 
in  when  warmed  and  Shaked  with  your  venifon  in  a 
pan  and  pour'd  out  altogether  into  your  difli. 


147 


404.   ^0  order  Venifon  to  keep  it  cold  a  year  round  w*^'' 
y"  Gravey  in  it, 

TAKE  when  your  venifon  is  boned  and  good  Sweet 
and  fat  bacon  thin  fliced  and  y^  feafoning  fpices 
ready  by  you  about  a  pint  of  claret  wine  and  a  clean 
bunch  of  feathers  then  flit  all  the  lean  parts  of  your 
venifon  about  the  length  of  your  finger  dip  your 
feathers  in  the  wine  and  wet  the  flit  then  put  in  fome 
of  the  feafoning  of  the  Sweet  Spices  made  of  nutmegs 
cloves  Jamacoe  pepper  and  a  little  ginger  and  Salt  and 
then  to  that  a  flice  of  thin  fliced  bacon  and  thus  do  in 
all  the  lean  parts  of  your  venifon  flitting  it  and  weting 
the  flits  with  the  wine  and  then  filling  up  the  flits 
with  the  Seafonings  and  fliced  bacon  then  put  into  the 
bottom  of  the  pot  you  bake  and  keep  it  in  fome  good 
beef  fewit  and  your  ordinary  of  Seafoning  pepper  and 
fait  among  your  fewit  &  all  over  your  venifon  and  fit 
your  venifon  to  the  fide  of  your  pot  and  put  good 
Sweet  butter  alfo  at  the  bottom  of  your  pot  and  round 
the  fides  and  fome  of  your  feafoning  and  the  re- 
mainder of  your  wine  then  turn  down  the  befl  and 
top  of  your  venifon  the  flatefl  part  to  the  bottom  of 
the  pot  in  the  baking  and  keeping  it  fo  till  you  come 
to  fpend  it  feting  it  into  the  oven  with  fome  brown 
bread  and  when  you  draw  it  forth  prefs  out  the  gravie 
as  well  as  you  can  and  as  hot  with  a  trencher  and  a 
great  weight  on  it  wafhing  your  weight  and  trencher 
clean  ere  ufed  then  put  all  the  gravie  you  flrain  out 
into  a  larger  ficillet  then  it  will  hold  that  you  may  alfo 
put  to  it  the  gravie  of  the  bones  baked  and  broken 
ere  you  bake  them  with  wine  and  feafoning  of  Sweet 
Spices  which  when  you  have  drained  from  the  baked 
bones  add  to  the  former  gravie  and  then  take  a  faggot 
of  Sweet  marjerom  bay  leaves  a  little  penny royall  and 
a  little  rofemary  ty'd  up  in  a  fagot  and  put  into  your 
gravie  and  then  take  a  clean  ftick  and  meafure  the 
depth  of  your  gravie  in  your  fkellet  and  make  a  nick 

148 


in  the  ftick  at  the  middle  of  depth,  that  you  may  be 
fure  to  boyle  half  away  by  the  meafure  of  your  ftick 
then  take  it  oiF  the  fire  and  pour  it  as  hot  as  you  can 
into  your  pot  of  venifon  and  fo  let  it  ftand  till  it  be 
cold  gently  prefTmg  down  your  venifon  before  it  be 
quite  cold  that  the  meat  may  be  cover'd  and  fink  down 
to  bottom  and  the  gravie  cake  over  it  Remember  to 
take  out  the  fagot  of  herbs  ere  you  put  your  gravie 
to  your  meat  if  it  cake  hard  over  then  noe  butter 
need  be  aded  to  keep  it  the  year  round  but  if  it  be 
thin  you  muft  add  butter  melt'd  up  to  cover  it  but 
pour  it  not  to  your  gravie  till  it  be  cold  and  head'd 
pour  your  melt'd  butter  on  it  no  warmer  than  juft  to 
run  all  over  it  and  when  quite  cold  cover  up  your  pot 
with  a  board  and  paper  that  no  air  nor  vermine  as  rats 
or  mice  come  to  it  and  it  will  keep  a  year  round  very 
good  but  when  you  come  to  fpend  it  take  off  the  ftale 
butter  and  fet  it  in  a  Kettle  of  water  to  melt  it  off  and 
let  none  of  the  water  get  in  but  when  throughly  hot 
take  your  pot  out  pour  off  the  ftale  butter  and  turn 
out  your  venifon  the  bottom  upwards  as  being  the  beft 
and  put  frefti  butter  to  it  and  when  cold  it  will  eat  as 
if  new  done  but  while  it  is  fpending  wherever  cut  it 
muft  be  cover'd  again  with  butter  or  it  will  turn  vinie 
if  it  ftand  to  take  air  where  cut  the  pot  you  turn  it 
into  ought  to  be  a  fweet  and  well  feafoned  pot  w*^ 
fome  frefti  butter  in  it. 


405.  To  make  PFigs. 

TAKE  3  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour  a  pound  of 
butter  melt'd  in  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  quart  of 
good  ale  yeft  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  mix't  in  your 
butter  milk  and  yeft  halfe  an  ounce  of  cloves  mace  and 
nutmegs  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  carraway  feeds  a 
little  fait  mingle  all  thefe  well  together  in  your  flour 
working  them  all  into  a  pretty  ftiflF  pafte  w*^  your 

149 


hands  &  weigh  out  about  4  ounces  to  a  wig  and  So 
rowle  them  up  into  wigs  and  bake  them  upon  paper 
or  tin  plates  butter. 

406.  'To  dry  Goojherryes  Plummes  or  Angelicoe, 

TAKE  your  goolberries  the  faireft  you  can  get  or 
your  plummes  and  flit  them  on  the  fide  with  a 
penknife  or  on  the  top  and  lay  them  in  hot  water  and 
fo  let  them  lay  in  the  hot  water  till  they  be  tender  as 
you  will  have  them  at  all  then  take  them  out  and  put 
them  into  cold  water  your  goofberrys  or  plummes 
and  let  them  lay  a  week  or  10  days  till  the  water  be 
very  fharpe  of  the  tafte  but  the  angelicoe  mufh  lay  in 
water  but  4  days  then  make  a  very  ftrong  firrop  and 
fo  boyle  them  up  you  mufl  keep  your  angelicoe  a  fort- 
night in  your  firrop  then  take  it  out  of  your  firrop 
and  lay  it  on  a  confecflioners  wyer  to  dry  over  a 
charcole  fire  throughly  kindled  that  there  be  no 
fmoake  in  the  kindled  coales  of  either  wood  or  cole 
if  you  have  occafion  to  dry  oringes  or  lemons  keep  y^ 
in  a  flrong  firrop  till  a  day  or  2  before  you  ufe  them 
and  dry  them  after  the  fame  manner  they  will  be  dry 
in  half  an  hour  or  Lefs,  dry  without  &  moifl  within 
and  this  way  will  make  your  fruit  green  enough  with- 
out any  peeling  and  alfo  your  angelicoe. 

407.  To  Rofie  a  Haunch  of  Venifon, 

SKIN  and  bone  your  venifon  beat  it  and  feafon  it 
as  you  like  befl  fweet  or  hot  fpices  fait  and  herbs 
fuch  as  pleafe  your  tafle  befl  then  coller  it  as  you  do 
beef  with  fome  butter  or  bacon  with  your  Seafoning 
tyeing  it  hard  with  pack  thread  wraping  it  up  firfl  in 
the  caul  or  fkin  of  the  venifon  fo  tye  it  on  to  your  fpit 
Save  what  drops  from  it  in  rofting  for  your  Sauce 
rofling  it  very  well  and  fo  Serve  it  up. 


150 


4o8.   To  make  the  CockleJJiell  Sweetmeat, 

TAKE  fome  double  refined  Sugar  and  fearch  it 
very  fine  through  a  fine  five  and  beat  it  into  a 
ftifF  pafle  with  a  white  of  an  ^^^  and  rowle  it  very- 
thin  and  put  it  on  your  fhells  and  dry  it  in  a  flove  or 
in  the  fun  you  may  colour  y°^  as  you  pleafe. 

409.  To  make  Red  Currant  Wine, 

LET  your  fruit  be  full  ripe  and  gathered  on  a  dry 
day  and  to  every  3  pound  of  currants  good 
weight  with  their  flalks  and  ftems  on  take  one  quart 
of  water  &  one  pound  of  fugar  put  your  water  to 
your  currants  &  with  your  hands  fqueeze  them 
through  a  hair  Sive  then  put  your  Sugar  to  your 
juice  and  when  it  is  well  mingled  together  and  the 
Sugar  is  difTolved  then  put  it  into  a  very  dry  and 
fweet  vefTel  fill  your  vefTell  quite  full  and  let  it  worke 
a  week  and  then  flop  it  up  and  let  it  not  be  tap*d 
under  10  weeks  time  and  then  draw  it  off  as  you 
drink  it  or  bottle  it  which  you  pleafe. 

410.   To  make  Aquamirahilis. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  Sallendine  and  half  a 
pint  of  the  juice  of  balme  and  half  a  pint  of  the 
juice  of  Spermint  of  rofemary  flowers  cowflip  flowers 
clovej  illy  flowers  bur  rage  and  burglafs  flowers  mellilot 
flowers  of  each  one  dram  and  all  other  cordiall  flowers 
you  think  fit  and  of  cubibs  ginger  cardimums  gallin- 
gall  cloves  mace  nutmegs  of  each  one  dram  put  all 
thefe  ingredients  in  3  pints  of  Sack  with  a  pint  of 
ftrong  angelicoe  water  and  half  a  pint  of  red  rofe 
water  fl:eep  them  one  night  and  the  next  morning  put 
it  in  a  cold  flill  and  draw  off  3  quarts  of  water  firfl 
laying  harts  tongue  leaves  at  the  bottom  of  the  ftill 
when  the  water  is  drawn  off  mingle  it  altogether 
fweetening  it  with  white  Sugar  candie  or  very  fine 
loafe  Sugar  bottle  it  clofe  ilopt  and  to  ftand  cool. 


411.  'To  make  Vinegar. 

TAKE  6  gallons  of  fair  water  and  put  it  into  a  9 
gallon  veifel  hooped  with  iron  put  thereto  18 
pound  of  ordinary  malligoe  raifons  wafht  a  little  in 
one  water  ftalks  and  raifons  altogether  pafte  on  a 
coarse  ftrong  cloth  over  y®  bung  hole  with  yeft  fet  in 
the  hoteft  fun  you  can  may  June  July  and  in  Sep- 
tember it  may  be  ufed. 

412.  yf  Pickle  for  Brawn. 

TAKE  9  gallons  of  water  2  handfuUs  and  a  half 
of  bay  fait  an  ounce  of  cloves  mace  and  white 
pepper  altogether  and  put  it  whole  in  and  boyle  it 
a  full  hour  boyling  in  it  a  quart  of  milk  fcumme  the 
milk  clear  ojfF  but  leave  your  Spice  at  the  bottom  for 
your  liquor  to  feed  on  and  keep  it  fweet  fo  keep  it 
till  the  morrow  to  be  through  cold  ere  you  put  in 
your  brawn  and  when  your  brawn  is  in  keep  it  as 
coole  as  you  can  and  twill  keep  a  quarter  of  a  year 
you  may  add  jamacoe  pepper  and  it  will  be  the 
better. 

413.  For  Fits. 

TAKE  of  gentian  roots  grated  as  much  as  will  lay 
on  a  6  pence  3  nights  before  and  3  nights  after 
every  change  of  the  moon  in  2  or  3  fpoonfuUs  of 
wine  or  beer. 

414.  A  Cordiall  Tin^ure  for  the  Colli  eke  by  ye 
Lady  Fuft. 

TAKE  fena  liquorifh  Guiacum  or  lignum-vite 
elecampane  roots  not  dryed  of  each  2  ounces 
annyfeed  corriander  feeds  of  each  an  ounce  raifons  of 
the  Sun  picked  and  fton'd  one  pound  infufe  all  thefe 
in  3  quarts  of  the  beft  aquavite  a  fortnight  or  3  weeks 
till  all  becomes  a  red  tindure  fo  ftrain  it  out  and  keep 
it  for  ufe. 

152 


415-  Hyjierick  Ele^uary  the  Lady  Gerrard's  Re^\  ' 

VENISE  treacle  half  an  ounce  bittony  flowers 
rofemary  flowers  &  burrage  flowers  of  each  ahalf 
an  ounce  amber  in  powder  half  an  ounce  cafl:or  in  fine 
powder  one  dram  let  thefe  be  incorporated  in  a  fl:one 
morter  w*^  as  much  firrop  of  pioneys  as  will  make  a 
fl:iff^  eledluary,  Let  ye  patient  at  the  full  and  change 
of  the  moon  at  going  to  refl:  take  the  quantity  of  a 
nutmeg  in  3  fmall  pills  and  drink  after  it  a  fmall 
drink  of  poflet  made  with  white  wine  with  a  root  of 
a  Angle  pioney  boyled  in  it  &  for  3  mornings  after 
ufe  no  other  breakfafl:  but  a  draught  of  the  fame 
poflet  Hereby  are  cured  both  old  and  young  of  con- 
vulfions  Hyfterick  vapours  fitts  and  falling  flcknefs. 

416.  'To  Pickle  Kidney  Beans. 

TAKE  young  beans  boyle  them  tender  (and  take 
them  before  they  be  ftringy)  in  pickle  made  of 
vinegar  and  fait  as  fl:rong  as  will  bare  an  egg  and 
therin  let  them  lay  about  a  week  then  take  them  out 
again  and  boyle  them  in  fair  water  till  they  look  as 
green  as  you  like  them  then  put  them  in  the  former 
pickle  again  and  they  will  keep  all  the  year. 

417.  To  Pickle  Cucumbers, 

TAKE  fmall  cucumbers  and  fcauld  them  then  take 
2  handfulls  of  fennell  feeds  half  fo  much  deaill 
feeds  a  little  mace  2  quarts  of  water  half  fo  much 
vinegar  one  pint  of  white  wine  feafon  it  well  with  fait 
and  when  it  is  cold  keep  your  cuccumbers  in  it. 

418.  The  Lady  Lees  Sore  Breaft  Poultife, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  fl:rong  ale  of  hollyhock  leaves 
chickweed  gruncell  mallows  of  each  herb  a  hand- 
full  chop  them  very  fmall  boyling  them  in  the  ale  till 
half  be  confumed  then  thicken  it  with  rie  meale  or 

^S3 


brane  of  wheat  and  put  in  a  pretty  piece  of  boars 
greafe,  boyle  it  till  it  come  to  a  fit  thicknefs  for  ufe  if 
it  break  the  breaft  keep  it  open  with  a  mallow  root 
drefTmg  it  twice  a  day  .  this  aproved  good  for  many 
Cares. 

419.  'The  Lord  Briftoes  Contraerva^  or  Counter  Poijon, 

TAKE  rags  of  pearl,  corall  white  amber  crabs  eyes 
beazar  ftone  harts  home  of  each  half  an  ounce 
roots  of  contraerva  one  ounce  all  finely  powdered  lift 
them  through  a  treble  five  then  take  the  powder  of 
crabs  claws  the  black  only  8  ounces  finely  fearcht, 
then  as  much  harts  home  jelly  as  will  make  them  up 
in  pafle  and  rowle  them  into  balls  and  dip  them  into 
cakes  with  the  top  of  your  ^ngtr  drying  them  tem- 
porately  the  eyes  and  claws  mufl  be  taken  in  may 
only. 

420.  A  Sweet  Water. 

TAKE  a  gallon  of  Spring  water  a  handfuU  of 
Lavender  flowers  as  many  pinks  3  handfuUs  of 
rofes  as  much  fweet  marjerom  the  peeling  of  6  oringes 
12  cloves  bruife  all  thefe  and  put  to  them  one  ounce 
of  prrice  powder  4  ounces  of  benjamin  put  all  thefe 
into  a  rofe  flill  and  draw  off  the  firfl  quart  by  itfelfe 
and  then  a  pint,  you  may  draw  after  that  another 
water  from  the  leefe  which  will  ferve  for  prefent  ufe 
but  not  keep,  put  into  your  quart  bottle  12  penny- 
worth of  mufk  and  in  the  pint  bottle  6  pennyworth 
tied  in  bags  and  a  little  juniper  fliced  very  thin  as 
much  as  will  lay  on  half  crown  2  or  3  fpoonfulls  will 
fweeten  a  bafon  of  water  keep  it  ftop*t  very  clofe  it 
will  keep  a  year  or  2. 

42 1 .  The  heft  way  to  make  Sirrop  of  Violets, 

STAMP  and  flrain  out  the  juice  of  the  blewefl 
Single  garden  violets  or  ither  to  one  pint  of  juice 
alowe  a  pound  of  Sugar  or  more,  put  no  more  water 

154 


to  your  Sugar  than  will  wet  it  when  it 's  boyled  to  a 
candie  hight  pour  in  your  juice  and  mingle  them  well 
together  and  when  it  is  ready  to  boyle  take  it  from 
the  fire  and  fcumme  it  clean  then  fet  it  to  the  fire 
again  and  when  ready  to  boyle  fcumme  it  again  thus 
do  5  or  6  times  and  keep  it  after  for  your  ufe  but  if 
it  boyle  it  will  change  the  colour. 

422.  "To  make  Oringe  Water, 

TAKE  60  of  middling  oringes  and  pare  off  the 
yellow  of  the  peel  befure  to  cut  between  the  red 
and  white  peel  that  you  may  cut  off  all  ye  poars  then 
take  the  yellow  peel  fo  pared  and  fleep  them  in  a 
gallon  of  Sack  canarie  Sack  48  hours  then  diflill  them 
in  a  limbeck  if  you  would  have  it  very  Strong  or  elfe 
in  a  cold  flill  with  a  gentle  fire  puting  Sugar  candie 
in  the  receiver  you  may  draw  2  or  3  forts  the  firft 
runings  being  the  Strongeft. 

423.  To  Prejerve  the  Water  Mellon. 

FIRST  pare  and  quarter  them  and  boyle  them  in 
feverall  waters  till  it  be  tender  and  look  green 
put  them  in  the  water  when  it  boyles  when  it  has 
boyled  in  that  water  a  pretty  while  take  it  out  and 
put  it  in  cold  water  and  fo  do  till  it  be  tender  boyle 
in  the  waters  fome  lemon  peel  cover  them  with  a 
cloth  in  the  boyling,  if  they  are  fo  ripe  that  the  feeds 
look  red  then  take  j^  out  then  take  to  every  pound 
of  mellon  a  pound  and  a  quarter  or  a  pound  &  a  half 
of  double  refined  Sugar  and  a  pint  of  fair  water; 
make  a  Sirrop  thereof  and  put  in  your  mellon  and 
lemon  peel  which  preferve  with  the  mellon  then  let 
it  lay  in  that  Sirrop  for  9  days  then  boyle  it  again 
and  when  it  is  done  take  it  up  and  add  fome  pippin 
liquor  to  it  (Loafe  Sugar  at  the  firfl)  for  the  quantity 
of  liquor  you  have  then  add  fome  juice  of  Lemon  to 
it  mufk  or  ambergreefe  if  you  like  it. 

155 


424.  ^0  make  Pafte  of  Gennaye  the  true  way, 

TAKE  quinces  and  boyle  them  in  their  fkin  then 
ftrain  all  the  pulpe  from  y®  coare  ftrain  it  through 
a  piece  of  cufhen  canvis  take  as  much  fugar  as  y® 
pulpe  do  weigh  put  to  it  twice  as  much  water  as  will 
melt  it  that  is  half  a  pint  to  every  pound  of  Sugar 
boyle  it  to  a  candie  hight  dry  the  pulpe  upon  a 
chafFendifli  of  coles  then  put  the  Sirrop  and  the 
pulpe  hot  together  boyle  it  with  ftiring  until  it  will 
lye  upon  a  pye  plate  even  as  you  laye  it  and  run  no 
broader,  then  faifhion  it  fome  like  leaves  and  fome 
like  letters  fo  put  your  pye  plate  in  a  warme  ftove  or 
oven  fet  it  upon  2  billets  of  wood  from  the  hearth  of 
the  oven  all  one  night,  on  the  morning  turn  it  &  fo 
fet  it  in  the  like  heat  again  and  every  day  turn  it  till 
it  be  dry. 

425.  To  make  Marmalade  of  fome  of  thefe  ^inces, 

TAKE  fome  of  this  paflre  after  it  be  placed  upon 
the  pye  plate  and  boyle  it  untill  it  will  come  clean 
from  the  bottom  of  the  pofTwett  and  then  box  it  that 
is  all  the  Difference  between  pafte  and  marmalade. 

426.  To  make  Pafie  of  Oringes  and  Lemons, 

TAKE  your  oringes  well  coloured  boyle  them 
tender  in  water  Shifting  of  them  6  or  j  times  in 
the  boyling  put  into  the  firft  water  a  handfull  of  fait 
and  then  beat  them  in  a  wooden  bowle  with  a  wooden 
peftel  ftrain  them  through  a  piece  of  cufhen  canvis 
take  the  weight  of  them  in  Sugar  and  fome  what  more 
then  boyle  it  and  dry  &  faihion  it  as  before  in  ye 
424  Re^. 

427.  To  make  Pafie  of  any  tender  Plummes, 

TAKE  any  tender  plummes  and  put  them  in  an 
earthen  pot  and  put  your  pot  into  a  pot  of  Seeth- 
ing water  and  when  they  are  diflblved  ftrain  all  y® 

156 


water  or  liquor  from  them  through  a  fair  cloth  and 
fet  the  liquor  by  to  make  quiddenye  of  then  ftrain 
the  pulpe  through  a  piece  of  cufhen  canvis  take  as 
much  Sugar  as  the  pulpe  do  weigh  put  to  it  as  much 
water  as  will  melt  it  and  boyle  it  to  a  candie  hight 
and  boyle  the  pulpe  of  the  plummes  very  well  upon  a 
chafendifh  of  coles  and  put  them  hot  together  fo  boyle 
them  with  ftiring  then  lay  them  upon  a  pye  plate  and 
fafhion  it  &  dry  it  as  before  put  fome  pulpe  of  apples 
amongft  the  plumme  pulpe  or  it  will  be  tough. 

To  make  marmalade  of  thefe  plummes  there  is  no 
difference  but  boyle  it  higher  then  your  pafte  till  it 
come  clean  from  the  bottom  of  ye  fkillet  then  box  it. 

428.   To  make  Qonferve  of  any  of  thefe  Fruits. 

WHEN  you  have  boyled  your  pafte  before  faid 
ready  to  fafhion  upon  the  pye  plates  put  it  up 
in  gallypots  and  never  dry  it  and  that  is  all  the  Dif- 
ference between  conferve  and  pafte,  and  fo  you  may 
make  conferve  of  any  fruits  this  is  for  all  hard  bodyed 
fruits  as  quinces,  pippins,  oringes  &  lemons. 


429.  'To  make  any  Conferve  of  tender  Fruits, 

FIRST  diffolve  your  plummes  as  you  did  to  make 
your  pafte  ftrain  through  the  liquor  and  pulpe  and 
all  to  every  pint  of  that  take  3  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
Sugar  and  fo  boyle  it  untill  it  be  fomewhat  thick  that 
when  you  lay  fome  of  it  upon  a  cold  difti  it  will  run 
no  broader  then  pot  it  up. 

430.  To  make  ^idony  of  the  Liquor  you  kept  of  your 
Plummes  before. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  that  liquor  and  boyle  it  with  half 
a  dozen  fair  pippins  pared  and  cut  in  fmall  pieces 
then  ftrain  all  the  thineft  from  it  and  put  to  every 
pint  of  that  liquor  half  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  boyle  it 
until  it  will  ftand  upon  the  back  of  your  fpoon  like 


quaking  jelly,  then  pound  it  into  your  moulds  your 
moulds  being  wett  before  and  when  it  is  almost  cold 
turn  it  off  unto  a  wet  trencher  so  slive  it  into  a  box 
your  box  being  wet  alfo. 

43 1 .  To  make  Pafte  Royal  of  any  Fruits, 

TAKE  marmalade  before  it  be  cold  &  then  mould 
it  up  in  fearched  Sugar  until  it  come  to  perfed 
pafte  then  print  it  in  your  moulds  &  then  dry  it. 

432.  "To  preferve  Fruits  Green, 

TAKE  pippins  apricocks  pear  plummes  or  peaches 
while  they  are  green  fcauld  them  in  hot  water  and 
peel  them  the  peaches  and  apricocks  Scrape  the  furr 
off  them  y"  boyle  them  very  tender  take  as  much 
Sugar  as  they  weigh  put  to  it  as  much  water  as  will 
make  a  Sirrop  to  cover  them  then  boyle  them  fome- 
thing  leafurely  and  take  them  up  then  boyle  the  Sir- 
rop until  it  be  fomething  thick  that  it  will  button 
upon  a  difh  fide  and  when  they  are  cold  pot  them  up 
together. 

433.  'To  preferve  thefe  Plummes  when  ripe, 

TAKE  as  much  Sugar  as  they  weigh  and  put  not 
fo  much  water  to  them  as  you  did  to  the  green 
for  they  will  yield  liquor  of  them  felves  boyle  them 
not  altogether  fo  leafurely  as  you  did  the  other  if  you 
do  the  Sirrop  will  turn  red  and  fo  when  you  have 
boyled  them  take  them  up  and  pot  them  as  aforefaid. 

434.  To  preferve  Damofens  Red  or  Black  Plummes. 

TAKE  as  much  Sugar  as  they  do  weigh  and  as 
much  water  as  will  make  a  Sirrop  to  cover  them 
then  boyle  them  a  little  while  in  the  Sirrop  clofe 
covered  and  turn  them  very  often  for  fpoting  them 
fet  them  all  night  in  their  own  Sirrop  and  on  the 
morrow  fet  them  upon  a  pot  of  feething  water  and  let 

158 


them  boyle  no  fafter  then  the  water  feethe  under  them 
then  when  they  be  through  fweet  and  tender  take 
them  up  and  pot  them  but  let  the  Sirrop  be  boyled 
till  it  will  button  upon  a  difh  fide  before  it  be  poted. 

435.  To  preferve  Grapes  Barberry es  or  Goojherrys. 

TAKE  as  much  Sugar  as  they  do  weigh  and  fome- 
what  more  and  beat  it  very  fine  take  a  preferving 
pan  or  ikillet  lay  a  lay  of  Sugar  and  a  lay  of  the  fruit 
till  you  have  laid  all  then  take  6  fpoonfulls  of  fair 
water  as  much  as  will  wet  the  bottom  of  your  pan 
then  boyle  them  as  faft  as  you  can  untill  they  be  clear 
then  boyle  the  firrop  until  it  will  button  upon  a  difh 
fide  then  when  they  are  cold  pot  them  up  together. 

436.  Tb  prejerve  ^inces  white, 

PARE  them  and  core  them  and  take  as  much  Sugar 
as  they  weigh  &  to  every  pound  of  Sugar  put  but 
a  wine  pint  of  water  put  your  quinces  Sugar  &  water 
together  and  boyle  them  as  faft  as  you  can  uncovered 
and  this  may  you  preferve  pippins. 

437.  'To  keep  ^inces  raw  all  the  year. 

TAKE  fome  of  the  worfl  quinces  and  cut  them  in 
fmall  pieces  boyle  them  in  water  till  it  be  flrong 
of  the  quince  put  into  in  the  boyling  to  every  gallon 
2  fpoonfulls  of  Salt  as  much  of  englifh  honey  half  a 
pint  of  white  wine  vinegar  then  flrain  it  and  when  it 
is  cold  put  it  into  a  wooden  vefTel  and  take  as  many 
of  your  beft  quinces  as  will  go  into  that  liquor  then 
flop  them  up  very  clofe  that  no  air  get  into  them  and 
they  will  keep  all  the  year. 

438.  To  candy  Barberries  Grapes  and  Goojherries. 

AFTER  you  have  preferved  them  by  Numb^*  435 
dip  them  in  warme  water  very  fodainly  to  wafh 
off  the  ropie  Sirrop  then  flrew  them  over  with  fearched 

159 


Sugar  as  you  would  do  flower  upon  fi{h  to  fry  and  fo 
fet  them  in  a  warme  oven  or  Stove  3  or  4  times  and 
never  let  them  be  cold  untill  they  be  dry  and  they  will 
look  like  fparkling  diamonds. 

439.  To  make  Clear  Cakes. 

TAKE  plummes  of  any  fort  Rafberries  are  beft  put 
them  in  a  ftone  jugg  &  when  they  are  diflblved 
ftrain  them  through  a  fair  cloth  and  take  to  a  pint  of 
that  a  pound  of  Sugar  and  put  to  it  as  much  water  as 
will  melt  it  &  boyle  it  to  a  candie  hight  boyle  the 
liquor  likewife  in  another  poiTnet  by  them  put  them 
feething  hot  together  boyle  them  a  little  while  together 
with  feething  then  put  them  into  glaffes  made  like 
marmalade  boxes  and  fo  fet  them  in  a  warm  oven  or 
ftove  in  a  drying  heat  let  them  ftand  fo  a  fortnight  or 
3  weeks  and  never  be  cold  remove  them  from  one 
warm  place  to  another  that  they  may  not  be  cold  they 
will  turn  in  a  week  beware  you  fet  them  not  to  hot 
they  will  be  tough  &  fo  every  day  turn  them  till 
they  be  dry  &  they  will  look  very  clear  canded  with- 
out and  moifl  within. 

440.  To  Dry  any  Fruit  after  they  are  Prejerved, 

TAKE  pippins  pears  or  plummes  wafh  them  out 
in  warme  water  from  that  firrop  they  are  pre- 
ferved  in  and  ftrew  them  over  with  fearched  Sugar  as 
you  would  do  flour  upon  fifli  to  fry  them  fet  them  in 
a  broad  earthen  pan  that  they  may  lie  one  by  one 
then  {tt  them  in  a  warme  oven  or  fl:ove  to  dry  if  you 
will  candie  them  with  all  you  muft  fl:rew  on  Sugar  3 
or  4  times  in  drying. 

441.  To  Dry  any  Fruit  without  Sugar. 

TAKE  pears  or  pippins  and  lay  them  in  an  earthen 
pan  one  by  one  and  bake  them  full  but  not  let 
them  brake  then  lay  them  upon  feafe  bottomes  in  an 

160 


oven  and  fo  dry  them  up  in  a  drying  heat  and  fo 
every  day  turn  them  till  they  be  dry. 

442.  To  candie  the  Clear  Rock  Candie. 

TAKE  Spices  or  flowers  or  any  dryed  fucket  any 
fruits  after  they  be  preferved  and  dry  again  lay 
them  upon  round  wyers  in  an  earthen  pan  the  pan 
narrow  at  the  bottom  and  broad  on  the  top  and  take 
as  much  refine  Sugar  or  Crafeel  powder  you  muft 
neither  take  barberry  Sugar  nor  maderous  they  are  to 
fat  put  to  it  as  much  water  as  will  melt  it  that  is  half 
a  pint  to  every  pound  and  fomething  more  and  when 
your  Sugar  is  all  melt'd  take  the  white  of  an  tgg  and 
a  dozen  fpoonfuUs  of  fair  water  beat  it  together  in  a 
bafon  w^^  a  burchen  rod  till  it  come  to  a  froth  then 
put  the  froth  of  the  ^gg  into  the  hot  Sirrop  fet  it  on 
the  fire  again  and  when  it  is  boyled  and  when  it  rifeth 
drop  a  drop  or  2  of  cold  water  amongft  it  then  fet  it 
on  the  fire  and  fcumme  it  then  boyle  it  to  a  candie 
hight  that  is  when  it  will  draw  like  a  thread  between 
your  finger  and  your  thumbe  then  pour  it  feething 
hot  into  your  pan  amongft  your  fruit  fet  it  upon  a 
cuftien  in  a  warme  chimney  corner  cover  it  clofe  with 
a  blancket  on  the  morrow  pour  out  all  the  Sirrop  that 
will  run  from  it  and  then  fet  your  pot  in  a  warme 
place  again  to  dry  pick  up  your  wyer  take  of  all  your 
fruits  lay  them  on  paper  to  dry  y"  box  y^. 

443.  To  fucket  Candie  Oringes  Lemons  Pome-Citerons 
&  Lettice  Stalks. 

BOYLE  them  tender  in  water  and  then  Candie  y"^ 
as  you  do  Ringoe  roots  by  Re^  356. 

444.  To  candy e  Flowers  the  Spanijh  Fa/hion, 

TAKE  flowers  of  any  Sort  whatfoever  and  picke 
oflT  the  leaves  from  the  flower  and  make  a  Sirrop 
of  Sugar  and  put  in  the  bloflbms  of  your  flowers  as 

161  M 


many  as  will  go  into  the  Sirrop  boyle  them  with  ftir- 
ing  until  it  be  turned  to  Sugar  again  fet  it  off  the 
fire  and  with  the  back  of  a  fpoon  ftir  them  and  bruife 
the  fugar  from  them  and  they  will  be  canded  and  no 
Sugar  {een  upon  them. 

445.  To  make  Lozenges  of  any  of  theje  Flowers, 

MAKE  a  Sirrop  of  Sugar  as  before  and  take  the 
bloflbms  of  what  flowers  you  will  &  fherd  them 
on  a  trencher  or  beat  them  in  a  wooden  difh  then  put 
in  as  many  as  will  colour  the  Sirrop  of  that  colour 
the  flowers  are  of  and  boyle  it  with  fl:iring  till  it  will 
come  clear  from  the  bottom  of  the  Skillet  and  fo 
thick  that  it  will  fcarce  drop  out  of  your  fpoon  then 
pour  it  upon  a  wet  trencher  w*^  a  wet  knife  fpread  it 
abroad  not  very  thin  when  it  is  cold  cut  it  in  fquare 
lozenges  like  fquare  diamonds. 

446.  To  make  a  March  Payne  Ice  it  Garnijhe  it  ^ 

Gild  it, 

TAKE  almonds  and  blanch  them  out  of  feething 
water  beat  them  in  a  fl:one  morter  drop  in  now 
and  then  a  drop  or  2  of  rofewater  to  keep  them  from 
oyling  now  &  then  fl:rew  in  a  handful  of  fearched 
Sugar  to  bring  it  to  pafl:e  when  you  have  brought  it 
to  perfect  pafte  rowle  it  abroad  as  thin  as  you  will 
have  it  fet  an  edge  about  it  as  about  a  tart  then  make 
little  conceiptes  to  garnifli  it  then  fet  it  in  an  oven  as 
hot  as  for  manchet  and  bake  it  lay  wafers  under  it 
upon  a  double  paper  bake  it  on  a  pye  plate,  then  ice 
it  with  the  white  of  an  tgg  rofewater  and  fearched 
Sugar  beaten  together  as  thick  as  batter  for  fritters 
when  it  is  half  baked  fpread  on  this  ice  with  a  feather 
fet  it  into  the  oven  again  when  the  ice  is  rifen  take  it 
out  fl:ick  in  your  garnifhing  in  long  cumfitts  while  it 
is  hot  then  when  it  is  cold  gild  it. 

162 


447'  ^^  make  Sugar  Plate, 

TAKE  fearched  Sugar  make  it  up  to  pafte  with 
gumdragon  fteep'd  with  rofewater  when  you  have 
brought  it  to  a  perfed  pafte  rowle  it  as  thin  as  ever 
you  can  fo  print  it  in  moulds  &  it  will  dry  as  it  lies. 

448.  To  make  Wallnuts  Artificial. 

TAKE  fome  of  the  Sugar  plate  print  it  in  a  mould 
made  for  a  wallnut  kernell  and  yellow  it  over 
with  a  little  fafforn  water  with  a  feather  take  fearch'd 
cinnamon  and  Sugar  as  much  of  the  one  as  the  other 
make  it  up  to  pafte  with  gumdragon  fteep'd  with  rofe 
water  print  that  in  a  mould  made  like  a  wallnut  ftiell 
&  when  they  be  dry  clofe  them  together  with  a  little 
gumdragon. 

449.  "To  make  Mujkedyne  Cumfits, 

TAKE  Sugar  plate  mould  it  in  a  little  mufke  and 
ambergreefe  then  rowle  it  as  thin  as  paper  and 
cut  it  fquare  like  lozenges  like  fmall  diamonds  then 
let  it  dry  as  it  lyeth. 

450.  To  make  Italy  an  Bijkit, 

TAKE  Searched  Sugar  a  little  of  the  white  of  an 
Qgg  2L  little  ambergreefe  and  mufke  according  to 
your  tafte  and  when  you  have  beaten  this  to  pafte 
in  an  Alleblafter  morter  then  mould  it  in  a  little 
annyfeed  finely  dufted  and  make  it  up  in  loaves  as 
big  as  crabs  cut  them  about  like  manchet  and  when 
they  be  rifen  Something  high  take  them  forth  upon 
the  plate  you  baked  them  on  remove  them  not  till 
they  cold  for  if  they  be  they  will  breake. 

451.  To  make  French  Bijkit, 

TAKE  half  a  peck  of  flour  4  eggs  half  a  pint  of  ale 
yeft  an  ounce  and  half  of  annyfeeds  make  all 
thefe  together  in  a  loaf  with  a  little  fweet  cream  and 

163 


a  little  cold  water  make  it  in  the  fafhion  of  a  dutch 
loaf  fomething  long  cut  it  in  good  thick  flices  like 
toafts  when  it  is  2  day  old  then  rub  it  over  with 
powder  Sugar  and  lay  it  in  a  warme  Stove  and  let  it 
dry  in  and  fo  you  muft  Sugar  it  over  3  or  4  times  & 
then  box  it. 

452.  T(9  make  Macaroons. 

TAKE  almonds  and  blanche  them  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  and  3  ounces  of  Searched  Sugar  beat 
thefe  in  a  morter  with  a  little  of  the  white  of  an  egg 
and  rofe  water  fo  beat  it  till  it  be  a  thicker  than  batter 
for  fritters  drop  it  upon  wafers  and  fo  bake  it. 

453.  To  make  Naples  Bijkit. 

TAKE  almonds  as  you  did  for  macaroons  to  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  an  ounce  of  pine  apple  feeds 
bake  it  as  before  that  is  all  the  difference. 

454.  To  make  any  Artificial  Fruits,  as  Oranges^ 
LemonSy  Cucumbers^  Radijh^  Herrings,  Sprats^ 
OyfterSy  or  Mufhells. 

TAKE  alleblafter  moulds  made  in  3  pieces  bind 
2  pieces  together  water  them  very  well  an  hour 
or  2  take  as  much  fugar  as  will  fill  your  mould  by 
your  own  aime  boyle  it  to  a  manus  Chrifti  that  is  till 
it  be  almoft  Sugar  again  then  pour  it  into  your  mould 
very  quick  put  on  the  lid  of  the  mould  &  turn  it 
round  with  your  hand  very  quick  &  when  it  is  cold 
take  it  out  it  will  be  whole  and  hollow. 

455.   To  boyle  Sugar  to  a  Manus  Chrifli, 

BOYLE  it  till  it  be  almoft  Sugar  again  and  the  laft 
drop  of  your  ipoon  there  will  a  hair  drop  from 
it  as  fine  as  the  hair  of  your  head. 

164 


45 6.  'To  hoyle  Sugar  to  a  Candy  Hight, 

BOYLE  your  fugar  till  it  will  draw  like  a  thread 
between  your  finger  &  thumbe. 

457.  To  make  a  Pomander. 

TAKE  Benjamine,  Storax,  Labdanum,  of  each  half 
an  ounce  Muike,  civit,  of  each  fix  grains,  1  grains 
of  ambergreefe  a  dram  of  fweet  balmefum  beat  all  thefe 
together  in  a  hot  morter  then  rowle  it  up  in  beads  as 
big  or  as  little  as  you  will  have  it  while  it  is  hot  and 
fo  make  holes  in  them  and  fo  ufe  them. 

458.  To  make  a  Perfume  to  burn  in  a  Chamber, 

TAKE  Benjamine,  Storax  and  Labdanum  of  each 
a  like  a  little  damafke  powder  orace  powder  a 
little,  a  little  frankenfenfe  and  mirr  powder  of  Jewiper 
beat  all  thefe  together  to  a  pafte  in  a  hot  morter  and 
fo  make  it  up  in  the  faihion  of  great  black  cloves  & 
fo  burn  them  when  you  pleafe  it 's  a  pleafant  fmell. 

459.  A  Perfume  to  perfume  Starch, 

AFTER  you  have  made  your  ftarch  fomething 
thick  put  in  fome  rofe  water  w*"^  mufk  and  amber- 
greefe have  been  Steed  in  all  night  and  it  will  make 
your  linnen  to  fmell  moft  pleafently. 

460.  To  perfume  Gloves, 

TAKE  benjamine,  Storax,  civit,  mufke  and  amber- 
greefe with  the  oyle  of  Sweet  balfame  with  a 
little  orace  flower  water  grind  all  thefe  very  well  upon 
a  painters  ftone  and  fo  wafh  your  gloves  with  it  and 
put  them  upon  flicks  &  dry  them  the  oyle  of  balfame 
keeps  Y^  supple  that  they  will  not  dry  flifF. 


i6s 


461.  1*0  make  a  Mothes  Powder  to  lay  amongft  your 
Linnen  or  Wollen  Clothes, 

TAKE  the  mofs  of  a  fweet  apple  tree  lay  it  in 
fteep  in  rofe  water  all  one  night  flop  the  vefTel 
very  clofe  that  it  is  in  then  lay  it  a  drying  in  a  paper 
in  a  warme  oven  So  fteep  it  and  dry  it  3  times  then 
beat  it  very  fine  and  put  to  the  powder  of  cloves  the 
powder  of  fweet  marjerom  orace  powder  damafke 
powder  as  much  mufk  and  ambergreefe  as  you  pleafe 
no  civit  for  that  will  clam  it  then  put  it  in  a  taffety 
bag  and  fo  ufe  it. 

462.  A  Water  to  make  the  Breath  Sweet, 

TAKE  the  powder  of  Sage  the  powder  of  Winter 
Savery  and  the  powder  of  Sweet  marjerom  the 
powder  of  cloves  and  mace  a  little  nutmeg  a  little 
mufk  fteep'd  in  the  juice  of  lemons  and  white  wine 
drink  all  thefe  together  a  fpoonfull  at  a  time  evening 
and  morning  w*^  the  juice  of  lemons  amongft  it. 

463.  A  Powder  to  make  the  'Teeth  White  and  Sweet, 

TAKE  the  powder  of  Sage  the  Shavings  of  ivory 
put  them  amongft  ye  juice  of  lemons  &  every 
evening  and  morning  rub  your  teeth  therewith  &  it 
will  make  them  both  white  and  fweet. 

464.  An  excellent  Water  to  clear  Hands  and  Face, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  fair  water  a  pint  of  white  wine 
the  juice  of  4  lemons  put  into  thefe  bean  blofToms 
elder  blofToms  white  lilly  blofToms  a  handfull  of  them 
all  put  them  amongft  the  wine  and  water  and  put 
into  4  wild  dafie  roots  4  marfh  mallow  roots  and  2  or 
3  bunches  of  wild  tanfie  as  much  of  femitary  the 
weight  of  2  pence  in  campheer  put  all  thefe  together 
in  an  earthen  pot  fet  the  pot  in  warm  aifhes  all  night 
then  in  the  morning  ftrain  it  through  a  piece  of  white 

166 


cotton  clean  waiht  and  put  it  into  a  narrow  mouth'd 
glafs  fet  the  glafs  in  the  fun  3  or  4  days  in  the  heat  of 
the  fun  if  there  be  any  rednefs  or  pimples  in  the  face 
take  the  white  dung  of  a  hen  and  fo  fteep  it  in  that 
water  all  one  night  then  ftrain  it  again  through  the 
cloth  wajfh  your  face  with  this  water  evening  & 
morning  if  you  wafh  your  hands  with  any  of  this 
water  put  thereto  3  or  4  bruifed  almonds  this  is  y® 
moft  excellent  water  that  ever  was  made  to  clear  hands 
and  face  withall.    Probatum  Eft. 

465.  Sr.  George  Horjeyes  Green  Ointment  for  Aches 
'proceeding  from  a  Cold  Cauje  for  Shrunke  Sinews 
in  Man^  or  Beaft^  ^  for  Strains  it 's  incomperably 
good  &'  holds  Perfection  \o  years, 

TAKE  mallows  groundcel  ftrawberry  lavender 
cotten  birtch  leaves  chickweed  comfry  parfley 
fage  leaves  bayleaves  cammomile,  Adder  ft  ongue  ox- 
eye  of  each  3  handfulls  chop  the  herbs  very  fmall  and 
beat  them  in  a  morter  take  of  rofes  four  pound 
frankenfence  2  pound  and  fet  them  upon  the  fire  then 
put  in  hogfgreafe  12  pound  may  butter  clarified  in 
the  Sun  38  pound  Sallet  oyle  i  gallon  Turpentine  4 
pound  verdigreafe  half  a  pound  when  all  thefe  are 
melt'd  put  in  the  herbs  &  let  them  boyle  half  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  and  carefully  ftir  while  it  is  upon 
y^  fire  then  take  it  off  and  ftir  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
after  when  it  is  cold  put  it  into  pots  clofe  covered  and 
fet  them  in  a  horfe  dunghill  a  yard  deep  for  21  days 
then  take  them  out  and  put  them  altogether  &  fet 
them  on  the  fire  again  and  boyle  y^  a  walme  or  2 
then  ftrain  it  and  put  thereto  2  pound  of  oyle  of 
fpike  fo  apply  it  to  the  place  agrived  gently  warming 
it  with  one  hand  this  is  only  to  be  made  in  may. 
Probatum  Eft. 


167 


466.  "To  make  "thin  Chee/e, 

TAKE  8  quarts  of  new  milk  from  y^  cow  ftrain'd 
put  to  it  4  or  5  quarts  of  cream  ftrained  and  put 
to  8  quarts  or  little  more  of  water  very  hot  then  put 
in  the  runnet  &  ftir  it  together  then  cover  it  very 
clofe  till  it  comes  and  fo  foon  as  it  *s  come  put  y^ 
cloth  upon  the  cheefe-vate  &  lade  the  curds  as  whole 
as  you  can  into  it  &  let  it  whey  draw  it  felf  and  when 
it  hath  done  runing  lay  on  ye  cloth  and  the  follower 
&  a  weight  fo  let  it  ftand  a  pretty  while  then  fhift  it 
into  a  dry  cloth  and  when  it  hath  done  weting  the 
cloth  it  muft  be  put  into  a  piece  of  bays  or  cloth  & 
lay  it  on  y®  floor  and  in  9  or  10  days  it  will  be  for 
your  eating. 

467.  'To  make  Angelot  Cheeje, 

TAKE  2  gallons  of  new  milk  put  to  it  2  quarts  of 
thick  cream  then  heat  it  fome  what  more  then 
blood  warme  then  fet  it  together  with  2  fpoonfulls  of 
runnet,  when  it  is  run  whey  it  not  but  fet  your  fat 
ready  which  muft  be  about  half  a  yard  high  turned 
round  like  a  pint  but  biger  without  a  bottom  it  muft 
be  fet  upon  a  even  board  &  the  curd  put  into  it  and 
ever  as  the  whey  runeth  from  it,  it  muft  be  filled  up 
it  will  take  a  whole  day  to  fill  it,  then  let  it  ftand  and 
fettle  3  days  in  the  fat  untill  it  be  fo  hardned  that 
you  may  take  off  the  moulds  without  breaking  when 
they  be  out  fait  them  with  white  fait  3  or  4  hours  at 
the  moft  ftrew*d  all  over  y°^  but  never  put  in  pickle 
then  wipe  them  over  with  a  fair  dry  cloth  as  clean  as 
pofHble  the  left  will  beft  leper  all  the  cheefe  fo  let 
them  dry  upon  clean  cloths  in  a  window  turne  them 
every  day  and  as  they  grow  mouldy  or  fowle  rub 
them  eafily  with  clean  and  dry  clothes  this  proportion 
will  make  2  cheefes.  thefe  cheefes  are  beft  to  be  made 
in  may  or  feptember. 

168 


468.   To  make  P  aft  ills » 

TAKE  a  pound  of  Sugar  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
ambergreefe  &  of  mufk  the  Sth,  loth  or  12th 
part  let  the  Sugar  be  double  refined  beat  it  &  incor- 
porate it  well  with  the  amber  and  mufk  then  take 
gumdragon  fteep  it  in  oringe  flower  water  Impaft  the 
Sugar  with  it  make  it  into  cakes  dry  them  in  the 
Shade  and  Sun  take  heed  of  ufmg  to  much  gum  for 
a  very  little  will  ferve  befure  to  let  your  cakes  dry 
well  in  the  ihade  before  you  put  them  in  the  Sun  or 
they  will  crack. 

469.  For  Fine  Linnen, 

TAKE  of  orrice  4  pounds  callamafe  half  a  pound 
benjamin  a  pound  Storax  a  pound  cloves  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  civet  half  an  ounce  mufke  an  ounce  oint- 
ment of  oringe  flowers  2  ounces  lignum  alloes  1 
ounces  ambergreefe  half  an  ounce  rofe  wood  half  a 
pound  the  amber  civet  mufk  and  ointment  of  oringes 
mufl  be  mingled  together  &  melt'd  &  you  mufl  either 
rub  the  rofes  with  it  or  elfe  fome  wool  the  wool  will 
keep  the  fmell  longeft  to  every  pound  of  rofes  a  pound 
of  powder. 

470.  Perfumes  to  Burn. 

TAKE  Damafk  rofe  buds  and  cut  off  the  whites 
then  beat  them  very  fmall  take  half  a  pound  of 
them  when  they  are  beaten  and  put  to  them  3  ounces 
of  benj amine  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mufke  as 
much  of  civet  and  as  much  ambergreefe  then  mingle 
it  all  well  together  and  make  it  up  in  little  thin  cakes 
and  lay  them  upon  rofe  leaves  &  dry  them  in  the  fun 
till  they  be  very  dry. 

471.  For  Ordinary  Linnen, 

TAKE    of  orrice    8    pound    callamafe    2    pound 
damafke  powder  a  pound  cloves  a  pound  gallin- 
gall  half  a  pound  benjamin  half  a  pound  Storax  halfe 

169 


a  pound  lavender  a  pound  to  every  pound  of  rofe 
leaves  you  muft  put  a  pound  of  powder. 

47  2.   'To  deftroy  Moths  &  pre/erve  Cloths  untouch! d, 

TAKE  the  bear  frame  of  a  fquare  table  cover  it 
over  with  fuch  furniture  you  mean  to  preferve 
you  muft  let  your  furniture  touch  the  ground  at  the 
fides  &  ends  of  the  frame  to  keep  in  the  heat  and 
vapor  then  take  a  chaffendifh  of  charcole  or  cole  of 
wood  fire  and  put  thereon  a  quantity  of  alloes  feque- 
trina  and  a  quantity  of  gallinger  roots  then  put  your 
chaffendifh  in  the  midfl  of  the  frame  and  let  it  remaine 
there  untill  y®  vapor  be  quite  fetled  and  the  engredi- 
ents  confumed  this  abfolutely  at  once  ordering  will 
deflroy  all  the  moths  bred  in  your  furniture  &  con- 
tinually preferve  fuch  furnitures  as  is  untouched. 

473.  To  deftroy  Moths  in  Chairs  &  Stools  &?  to  refrejh 

ye  Colour, 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  fharp  fmall  beer  or  ale  put 
therein  a  quantity  of  alloes  &  a  quantity  of 
gallinger  as  aforefaid  make  it  boyle  3  or  4  walmes 
untill  ye  alloes  be  difTolved  then  take  a  piece  of 
woollen  cloth  dip  it  therein  and  wafh  over  your 
chairs  and  flools  therewith  then  put  them  to  dry  this 
will  kill  all  the  moths  though  bred  in  the  feats 
amongfl  feathers  flox  or  wool  and  refrefh  any  coloured 
cloth  or  fluff  turkey  workes  or  needel  workes  not 
altering  the  property  of  ye  colours  nor  hurting  the 
workes. 

474.  To/coure  and  refrejh  the  Colour  of  Cloth  Carpets^ 

Silk  CurtainSy  or  any  Stuff  y^  is  Stain' d  or 
SoiPd. 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  orgull  break  it  to  a  fmall 
powder  then  put  it  into  fome  pewter  platter  then 
put  it  over  a  chaffendifh  of  coles  make  it  hot  then 

170 


put  your  carpet  or  curtain  abroad  upon  a  table  after- 
wards take  a  brufh  made  of  fwines  hairs  dip  it  therein 
and  fo  rub  over  your  carpet  or  curtain  therewith  this 
will  take  away  all  the  fpots  and  refreih  the  colour. 

475.  To  fcoure  i^  refrefhye  Colour  of  Gold  &  Silver 

Lace  or  Fringe, 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  wine  vinegar  put  therein  a 
quantity  of  rock  allome  make  it  boyle  till  the 
allome  be  diflblved  then  rub  over  your  lace  therein 
afterwards  wafh  it  over  with  clean  water  and  caftle 
foap  this  will  make  your  lace  very  fair  and  frefh. 
Some  rub  it  only  w*^  the  powder  of  Common  Palk 
burnt: 

476.  To  fcoure  or  refrefliye  Colours  of  Fixtures  y*  are 

Stairid  or  SoiVd, 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  wine  vinegar  &  a  quantity  of 
allome  let  it  boyle  till  ye  allome  be  diflblved  then 
take  a  piece  of  fine  clean  linnen  cloth  dip  it  therein 
&  wafh  over  your  pidures  therewith  then  let  them 
dry  and  after  they  are  dry  take  a  little  piece  of  fine 
linnen  cloth  dip  it  in  linfet  oyle  and  fo  wipe  over 
your  picktures  therewith  then  hang  them  in  their 
places  this  will  fetch  off  all  y^  ftains  and  make  y^ 
pictures  frefh. 

477.  To  drefs  ^  order  Thin  ^  Old  Bedtikes  to  make 

J*"  keep  in  their  Feathers, 

TAKE  a  quantity  of  wheat  flour  and  a  quantity  of 
yellow  wax  put  it  into  clean  water  make  it  boyle 
and  flir  it  well  together  untill  the  wax  be  clear  difTolved 
then  let  it  cool  and  after  it  is  cold  ufe  it  after  this 
manner,  take  your  bedtike  turn  the  wrong  fide  out- 
wards and  fpred  it  abroad  upon  a  table  then  take  a 
brufh  made  of  fwines  hairs  dip  it  therein  rub  over 
every  place  of  your  bed  tike  therewith  and  put  it  to 

171 


dry  this  will  make  your  bed  thick  and  ftrong  &  caufe 
that  no  feathers  fhall  come  out  nor  duft  enter  in. 

478.  ^0  perfume  Bedtikes  for  Down  or  other  Bedtikes 
vf  y'  Feathers  fmell  Strong  and  Mujiie. 

TAKE  clean  water,  wax  and  flour  make  it  boyle 
and  ftir  it  well  together  untill  the  wax  be  diflblved 
and  when  your  wax  is  diffolved  take  a  quantity  of 
cloves  beaten  to  powder  and  a  quantity  of  fweet  water 
or  damafke  rofe  water  caft  it  therein  Stir  it  well  to- 
gether and  when  it  is  cold  drefs  your  bed  therewith 
according  to  ye  laft  receipt  this  done  you  fhall  fmell 
your  bed  all  over  ye  chamber  w^  it  cometh  to  the 
heat  of  the  body  it  *s  both  comfortable  to  ye  head  and 
flomach  and  not  offend ve  to  a  woman  in  child  bed. 

479.  'To  make  Butter  Cheefe, 

RUN  the  morning  milk  as  you  uffially  do  Stir  and 
fink  it  when  it  is  well  whey  and  gathered  put  it 
in  a  great  vate  prefs  it  very  little  then  put  it  in  a 
great  trendell  and  break  it  very  fmall  and  mix  with  it 
good  ftore  of  runnet  (?)  and  all  the  butter  that  can  be 
made  of  the  evening  cream  well  beat  from  the  butter 
milk  they  muft  be  fo  wrought  together  that  you  may 
not  difcern  the  one  from  the  other  then  put  it  in  a 
great  vate  that  will  hold  a  peck  at  lefl  in  a  large  cloth 
well  faftned  y*  the  curd  worke  not  forth  you  muft 
prefs  it  by  degrees  and  not  put  on  the  full  weight  at 
firft  change  it  in  a  dry  cloth  at  noon  and  fait  it  well 
it  mufl  fland  in  the  prefs  2  days  &  2  nights  puting 
twice  a  day  in  frefh  cloths  it  muft  not  be  eat  under  2 
years  old  at  fooneft  neither  made  in  a  little  quantity. 

480.  To  keep  Cringes  fre/Ji  all  y''  Tear, 

TAKE  fuch  a  number  as  you  intend  to  keep  out 
of  the  fhip  before  they  are  wafti'd  ftrow  2  inches 
of  wood  aiihes  finely  fift*d  in  the  bottom  of  a  box  or 

172 


barrell  then  lay  the  oringes  in  rowes  to  that  they  may 
neither  touch  one  another  or  the  fides  of  the  box  then 
fifting  2  inches  thick  of  aifhes  more  over  them  and 
place  fo  many  rowes  of  oringes  after  the  fame  manner 
as  the  box  or  barrell  will  hold. 

481.  'To  make  Quince  Marmalade. 

TAKE  your  quinces  that  are  full  ripe  look  yellow 
without  fpots  &  frefh  gathered  from  the  tree  pare 
them  and  quarter  them  and  cut  out  their  core  very 
clean  and  take  their  weight  in  good  refined  Sugar 
then  take  fome  of  your  other  quinces  that  are  not  fo 
purely  fine  quarter  them  &  core  them  only  and  beat 
them  in  a  ftone  morter  fo  fmall  as  with  adding  a  fpoon- 
fuU  or  two  of  fair  water  now  &  then  to  them  you  may 
gett  the  juice  out  of  them  then  ftrain  and  wring  them 
very  hard  through  a  thin  cloth  or  boulter  geting  as 
much  juice  from  them  as  pofllble  you  can  and  for 
want  of  this  juice  in  cafe  you  have  not  quinces  enough 
to  make  it  up  you  may  take  the  pareings  and  cores  of 
thofe  you  intend  for  marmalade  with  the  addition  of 
a  few  ordinary  quinces  more  &  boyle  them  in  a  quan- 
tity of  fair  water  till  the  quinces  &  pareings  are 
tender  and  the  water  very  ftrong  of  them  then  ftrain 
it  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  throughly  cold  and  to 
every  pound  of  quinces  and  Sugar  take  a  full  pint  or 
fomething  more  of  this  liquor  or  ye  juice  before  men- 
tioned and  pour  it  into  your  quartered  quinces  alone 
&  let  them  boyle  in  it  till  they  are  very  tender  then 
mafii  them  well  together  with  a  fpoon  but  break  not 
your  quinces  to  fmall  but  leave  fome  pretty  big  bitts 
and  then  put  in  your  fugar  being  firft  finely  beaten 
ftirring  it  altogether  and  makeing  it  boyle  if  you 
intend  to  have  it  red  marmalade  you  muft  keep  it 
continually  boyling  very  clofe  cover'd  and  ftir'd  hard 
from  ye  bottom  or  it  will  foon  burn  when  ye  Sugar  is 
in  it  &  when  you  perceive  it  grow  red  &  come  to  a 

173 


pure  cherry  colour  w^^  with  long  conftant  boyling  and 
ftiring  it  will  be  then  warme  your  glafles  at  the  fire 
left  they  break  &  fo  put  in  into  them  as  faft  as  you 
can  and  keep  it  in  a  moderately  hot  Stove  all  ye  year 
for  your  ufe. 

482.  An  excellent  Pom  ma  nder. 

TAKE  half  an  ounce  of  benjamin  half  an  ounce  of 
damafe  rofe  leaves  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Storax 
beat  thefe  very  fmall  feverally  then  fift  them  and 
mingle  the  powder  then  take  fome  gumdragon  fteep*d 
in  rofe  water  24  hours  and  make  it  into  a  ftiif  paft 
then  take  4  grains  of  ambergreefe  4  grains  of  mufk  and 
2  of  civit  grind  thefe  together  with  a  little  juice  of 
Lemon  till  they  are  diflblved  then  anoint  the  hand 
with  effence  of  jefTamie  or  rofes  &  work  the  paft  well 
with  the  mufk  and  amber  if  it  be  to  limber  put  in 
powder  of  rofes  if  to  ftifFa  little  rofe  water  then  weigh 
them  of  an  equal  weight  and  rowle  them  up  in  your 
hand  but  while  they  are  wet  make  holes  through  them 
with  a  bodkin  dry  them  betwixt  2  papers. 

483.  "To  make  Mince  Pyes, 

TAKE  tongues  par-boyled  cut  the  roots  and  hard 
all  off  then  to  4  pound  of  meat  take  8  pound  of 
the  beft  fewit  cut  the  tongues  in  little  fquare  pieces 
like  dice  then  fhred  it  fine  do  the  fewit  the  fame  then 
put  it  to  the  meat  by  degrees  and  ftir  it  lightly  to  keep 
it  from  lumping  then  chop  meat  and  fewit  together  & 
fift  it  through  a  fine  fplit  {wq  fave  the  lumps  that  re- 
main behind  chop  them  again  and  fift  them  as  before 
till  all  are  gone  to  this  proportion  of  meat  and  fewit 
take  half  an  ounce  of  nutmegs  half  an  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon almoft  as  much  mace  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  cloves  beat  the  fpice  all  but  the  nutmegs  very  fine 
then  fift  it  through  a  ixvQ  as  you  ftrain  water  grewel 
through  let  your  {\\q  be  very  dry  that  done  and  your 

174 


meat  ready  then  put  in  your  fplce  and  fait  to  your 
tafte  2  pound  and  a  half  of  the  beft  raifons  of  the  Sun 
Stoned  and  fhred  as  fine  as  can  be  dates  half  a  pound 
fhred  as  fine  as  the  raifons,  cittern  above  a  quarter  of 
a  pound,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  canded  lemon  not 
quite  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  canded  oringe  fhred  them 
but  not  fo  fine  as  the  reft  i  o  or  a  dozen  of  the  beft  pip- 
pins par'd  and  fhred  as  fine  as  can  be  but  neither  pare 
nor  fhred  them  tilljuft  you  put  them  into  y^  meat  then 
rub  in  everything  feverally  into  your  meat  &  well 
without  clodding  have  4  pound  of  the  beft  currants 
clean  wafh'd  picked  and  dryed  2  pound  of  Sugar  or 
fomething  better  beat  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the 
beft  rofe  water  of  the  beft  canary  a  pint  and  a  quarter, 
3  quarters  of  a  pint  of  the  beft  verges  lay  more  fliced 
cittern  on  the  top  of  the  pyes  if  you  keep  any  of  the 
meat  by  to  make  up  after  the  firft  time  ftir  it  well 
every  day  &  do  not  put  in  the  juice  of  Lemon  for  it 
will  not  do  well  to  ftand  in  long  you  muft  mingle 
your  Sack  rofewater  &  verges  together  then  turn  up 
your  meat  and  fprinkle  it  in  by  degrees  y*  all  the 
meat  may  fare  alike  &  not  Lump  to  this  quantity  you 
may  put  the  juice  of  2  lemons  but  not  to  ftand  in 
longer  then  juft  while  you  make  y"^  up. 

484.  An  excellent  Water  for  ye  Head  ^  for  Sleep 
called  ye  Emperour  Charlefes  Water, 

WHEN  rofes  are  blown,  take  a  quart  of  good 
aquavite  in  a  glafs  with  a  narrow  neck  and  when 
the  rofes  are  half  blown  take  a  handfull  of  the  leaves 
without  ye  feed  put  them  into  the  glafs  and  when  the 
marioran  bloweth  &  the  Apiaftrum  take  then  a  hand- 
full  of  their  buds  chop  them  fmall  and  put  them  into 
the  glafs  Take  alfo  cloves  nutmegs  cinnamon  mace 
cardamum  of  each  an  ounce  &  a  half  bruife  all  thefe 
grofHy  and  put  it  in  the  glafs  and  when  the  lavender 
and  rofemary  are  blown  add  a  handfull  of  each  flowers 

175 


alfo  fhake  them  well  together  and  ftop  it  clofe  let  it 
(land  lo  days  in  a  hot  fun  it  muft  be  ufed  by  anoint- 
ing the  temples  and  noftrells  it  fortifieth  and  Corro- 
borateh  the  head  and  memory. 

485.  The  Lady  Drakes  Re^  to  cure  the  Stone, 

TAKE  Saxafrage,  Pellitory  of  the  wall  parfley, 
mother  of  time  of  each  a  handfull  clean  pickt  3 
or  4  radifh  roots  fcrap't  and  fliced  fteep  thefe  in  a 
gallon  of  new  milk  at  night  cover  it  clofe  diftill  it  in 
the  morning  in  a  common  ftill  let  it  run  while  good 
mix  it  all  or  a  ftrength  take  6  fpoonfulls  of  this  water 
with  as  much  white  or  renifh  with  a  little  nutmeg  & 
fugar  juft  warmed  and  drink  it  nights  &  mornings  3 
days  before  the  new  and  the  full  of  the  moon  for  a 
year  together.    Probatum  Eft. 

486.   Cere  Clothes. 

DISSOLVE  on  the  coals  an  ounce  and  half  of  vir- 
gins wax  and  put  to  it  as  much  Spermacitti  as 
will  lye  on  a  fhilling  and  a  fpoonfuU  of  oyle  of  fweet 
almonds  a  few  drops  of  oyle  of  cloves  dip  your  cloths 
in  it  and  when  they  are  cold  wring  them  in  a  cloth 
and  clap  them  between  your  hands. 

487.  Almond  Cuftards, 

TAKE  2  pound  of  almonds  ftamp  them  with  rofe 
water  ftrain  them  into  a  quart  of  thick  cream 
wafhing  them  through  with  a  little  of  the  cream  till 
you  have  got  out  the  beft  of  them  but  referve  one 
fpoonfuU  to  put  to  it  without  ftraining  put  to  it  14 
whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  fweeten  &  bake  it  as  you 
pleafe. 


176 


488.  Macaroons. 

HALF  a  pound  of  almonds  ftamp'd  with  rofewater 
the  whites  of  4  eggs  whipt  to  froth  with  2  fpoon- 
fulls  of  rofewater  half  a  pound  of  double  refined  Sugar 
2  fpoonfuUs  of  rice  flour  both  fearched  fine  mix  it  in 
a  bafon  &  fet  it  on  hot  coals  keep  fliring  it  till  tis 
boyling  hot  lay  wafers  on  white  papers  and  put  this 
on  them  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

489.  A  Ragou  of  Veal, 

TAKE  a  breafl  of  veal  lard  it  pretty  thick  with 
great  lards  then  brown  it  very  well  in  a  frying 
pan  put  it  into  a  flew  pan  with  fome  of  the  butter  it 
was  fry'd  in  flower  it  and  let  it  fry  there  a  little  then 
put  in  gravie  or  ftrong  broth  almofl  to  cover  it  &  let 
it  flew  till  tis  tender  then  feafon  it  with  pepper,  fait, 
mace  nutmeg  Sweet  herbs,  an  onion  put  in  2  or  3 
Sweet  breads  flicet  fome  pallats  6  yolks  of  eggs  put 
in  juice  of  lemon  or  verjuice  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  difh  it  on  toafl  and  pour  the  fauce  over  it. 

490.  For  a  'Tickling  Cough  or  Rhume. 

O  OUNCES  of  conferve  of  red  rofes  2  ounces  of 
honey  60  grains  of  maflick  60  grains  of  libanum 
20  drops  of  Sulphur  or  as  much  as  will  make  it  fharp 
and  make  it  all  up  together  in  an  Eleduary  &  tyed 
up  clofe  which  will  ferve  for  half  a  year  or  a  year  and 
take  the  quantity  of  a  nutmeg  firfl  in  the  morning 
and  lafl  at  night. 

49 1 .  For  Flegme  when  it  flicks  that  it  cannot  come  up. 

TAKE  a  fpoonfuU  of  muftard  2  fpoonfulls  of  honey 
&  a  fpoonfuU  of  good  oyle  or  oyle  of  fweet  al- 
monds a  fpoonful  of  vinegar  or  good  crab  verjuice  or 
wine  vinegar  if  not  to  fharp  beat  it  well  together  and 

177  N 


take  it  in  bed  and  fwallow  it  down  by  degrees  tye  it 
up  clofe  it  will  keep  but  a  little  time  take  a  quarter 
of  a  fpoonfuU  at  a  time  mornings  and  laft  at  night. 

492.  For  a  Cold  newly  taken, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  pofTet  drink  cut  5  large  lent-figgs 
in  fmall  thin  flices  a  flick  of  liquorifh  ftript  fmall 
and  about  half  a  fpoonfull  of  annyfeeds  bruifed  put 
thefe  into  the  poflet  drink  boyle  them  till  almoft  half 
be  confumed  drink  it  hot  as  you  go  to  bed. 

493.  'To  keep  damojens  all  ye  Year. 

BAKE  your  Damofens  and  take  the  juice  only  a 
good  quantity  and  put  Sugar  thereto  about  the 
weight  of  your  liquor  fo  boyle  it  &  fcumme  it  clean 
then  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold  then  put  it  in  your 
damofens  raw  as  many  as  your  juice  will  cover  and 
ftop  them  up  clofe  to  keep  all  the  year. 

494.  For  a  Healing  Ointment. 

TAKE  mallows  orpine  dandelion  brooklime  St 
Johns  wort  Elder  leaves  of  each  one  handfull  boyle 
all  thefe  together  in  the  fleck  of  a  pig  or  frefh  butter 
for  the  fpace  of  2  hours  under  a  foft  fire  yn  flrain  it 
and  keep  it  for  ufe. 

495.  For  a  'Drawing  Salve. 

TAKE  of  pitch  and  bees  wax  of  each  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  &  of  rozen  half  a  pound  &  4  pennyworth 
of  Venice  turpentine  add  thereunto  fo  much  of  the 
healing  ointment  as  your  own  reafon  will  dire6l  you 
that  may  ferve  to  make  it  up  into  a  plaflering  falve 
all  thefe  mufk  be  boyled  and  flir'd  together  untill  they 
are  well  incorporated  you  may  obferve  that  a  little  of 
the  ointment  being  put  in  will  ferve  for  the  incorpor- 
ating &  difTolving  the  other  ingredients  after  thefe 

178 


are  boyled  together  you  are  to  pour  them  into  a  veffel 
of  fair  water  and  then  break  &  worke  them  well  to- 
gether and  then  make  them  up  into  rowles  for  ufe. 

496.  For  a  Renting  Salve, 

TAKE  an  ounce  of  beefwax  and  2  ounces  of  Rozin 
and  one  penny  worth  of  venice  turpentine  and 
boyle  them  together  with  fo  much  deers  fewit  as  will 
confolidate  them  into  a  Salve  when  thefe  are  boyled 
together  ftrain  them  for  ufe  if  you  cannot  get  deers 
fewit  you  may  take  the  beft  iheeps  fewit. 

497.  ^  Poulti/e. 

TAKE  all  the  herbs  before  named  in  the  healing 
ointment  &  boyle  them  in  beer  for  an  hour  then 
ftrain  out  the  herbs  and  thicken  the  liquor  w*^  oat- 
meal or  bread  then  boyle  it  well  until  it  become  a 
thick  poultife  and  y°  put  into  it  oyle  or  freih  liquor 
If  the  maladye  ye  poultife  is  to  be  apply'd  unto  requires 
fpeedy  breaking  then  boyle  together  w*^  ye  herbs  an 
handful  or  lefs  of  white  lilly  mores  this  poultife  is  very 
ufefull  for  all  forts  of  fwellings. 

498.  A  Cordiall  or  Surffit  Water  of  Poppies. 

TAKE  of  the  poppie  flowers  pluck  them  from  the 
ftalks  then  fift  y™  from  the  feeds  and  weigh  out  4 
pounds  then  fteep  them  in  3  gallons  of  ftrong  ale  and 
with  them  half  a  pound  of  liquoriifh  and  half  a  pound 
of  annyfeeds  and  let  them  fteep  a  whole  night  then 
diftill  them  in  your  limbeck  the  firft  runing  will  be 
very  ftrong  the  fecond  fomewhat  fmaller  when  you 
have  drawn  a  quart  or  2  then  take  2  handfuUs  of 
poppie  flowers  being  pickt  and  fift'd  and  let  them  lye 
in  the  water  5  or  6  days  till  it  comes  to  the  colour  of 
a  peal  claret  wine  and  upon  any  indifpofltion  of  the 
ftomach  flcknefs  or  furflt  5  or  6  fpoonfuls  of  this  is 

179 


very  cordiall  the  2  quarts  will  be  ftrong  and  you  muft 
ftrain  out  the  leaves  after  5  or  6  days.    Probatum  eft. 

499.  'To  make  a  Surjit  Water, 

TAKE  of  ale  meafure  6  gallons  of  ftrong  ale  one 
pound  of  liquorifti  half  a  pound  of  annyfeeds  2 
pound  of  red  poppey  one  ounce  of  cloves  one  ounce 
of  nutmegs  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  and  one  ounce  of 
ginger  bruife  the  cloves  gently  and  flice  all  the  reft  of 
ye  fpices  take  likewife  half  a  pound  of  figs  a  quarterne 
of  dates  a  pound  of  raifons  of  the  Sun  Stoned  lay  all 
thefe  in  fteep  over  night  in  the  ale  then  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  white  Sugar  candy  finely  beaten  and 
put  it  into  your  glafs  which  receives  your  diftillation 
put  the  firft  and  fecond  runing  together  otherwife  it 
will  be  to  ftrong  you  may  put  in  a  grain  or  2  of 
ambergreefe  &  a  handfull  of  poppie  leaves  to  colour  it. 

500.  For  a  Sinew  Strain  in  Man  or  Be  aft, 

TAKE  of  Nerve  oyle  Frankinfence  Brandy  Venice 
turpentine  and  black  foap  of  each  a  convenient 
quantity  melt  them  together  and  chafe  it  well  in  with 
your  hand  and  hold  a  red  hot  iron  or  fire  fhovel  to  it 
whilft  you  are  doing  of  it  to  force  it  the  better  in. 
You  may  add  a  little  quantity  of  gum  anomy.  Pro- 
batum eft. 

501.  To  make  Juice  of  Liquor i/h  as  a/pecial  Cordiall, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  liquorifh  a  quart  of  Ifope  water 
the  3^  part  of  a  quart  of  red  rofe  water  Sugar 
candy  one  pound  confedion  of  alkermife  2  ounces 
ambergreefe  80  grains  mufk  50  grains  unicornes  horn 
30  grains  prepared  pearl  2  drams  beafor  ftone  40  grains 
Harts  home  half  an  ounce  take  your  liquorifh  fcrape 
it  and  slice  it  then  beat  it  to  powder  and  put  it  into  a 
filver  or  earthern  pipkin  and  let  it  ftand  on  a  foft  fire 
fimpering  till  it  be  reafonably  thick  then  ftrain  it 

180 


through  a  fearce  and  put  in  the  Sugar  candie  finely- 
beaten  then  fet  it  in  the  fun  where  no  rain  comes 
ftiring  it  together  once  in  4  or  5  days  you  muft  make 
it  in  april  &  it  muft  ftand  clofe  covered  in  the  Sun 
(ftiring  it  as  aforefaid)  the  fpace  of  2  months  at  leaft 
w'*  it  hath  been  thus  dryed  you  muft  take  your  other 
ingredients  and  with  fome  of  the  liquor  grind  them 
in  a  fmooth  ftone  morter  or  on  a  perfumers  ftone  till 
thefe  be  very  fine  then  mix  them  well  together  with 
the  reft  &  fet  it  again  in  the  Sun  3  months  more  or 
till  it  be  hard  enough  to  box  up  ftill  ftiring  it  as  afore- 
faid every  4  or  5  days. 

502.  To  make  a  Powder  for  the  Stone  ufed  by  Pope 
Silvefter  ye  id. 

TAKE  groundfell  feed  and  Saxaifrage  feed  of  each 
an  ounce  filipendula  half  an  ounce  white  amber 
and  corrall  white  and  red  of  each  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  make  all  thefe  into  a  fine  powder  and  mix  them 
well  together  and  of  this  give  the  patient  one  fpoon- 
fuU  each  morning  while  it  laft  in  broth  or  pottage  and 
it  will  help  and  deflFend  him  from  the  ftone  that  it 
never  will  come  again. 

503.  For  an  Ague. 

TAKE  of  alloes  Sickatryna  and  beat  it  in  2  fpoon- 
fulls  of  englifti  honey  half  a  pint  of  white  wine 
vinegar  and  a  little  piece  of  allome  boyle  thefe  to- 
gether till  they  be  thick  then  make  a  plaifter  thereof 
on  a  piece  of  leather  and  apply  it  to  the  navel  of  the 
belly  as  hot  as  may  be  fufFred  it  cureth  the  ague  and 
killeth  wormes. 

504.  For  Agues  of  all  Sorts, 

TAKE  Venice  turpentine  and  white  frankinfence 
finely  powdered  and  ftrew  it  into  your  turpentine 
till  it  be  ftiflF  enough  not  to  run  abroad  well  mingling 

181 


it  together  with  a  knife  then  fpread  it  on  round  pieces 
of  leather  2  inches  and  half  over  for  a  man  &  lefs  for 
children  and  when  you  have  fpread  over  your  plaifter 
with  this  liquid  turpentine  and  frankinfence  mingled 
as  before  then  ftrew  on  more  of  the  powder  finely 
fearch'd  and  fo  let  them  lay  and  dry  till  a  white  paper 
will  not  ftick  to  them  and  fo  puting  papers  between 
each  plaifter  lay  them  up  for  ufe  &  when  you  ufe 
them  warme  them  and  apply  them  to  the  navel  a  little 
before  the  fit  comes  &  let  it  lay  on  till  they  fall  off 
themfelves  if  one  plaifter  cures  not  then  ufe  a  2^  and 
fo  a  3^  but  a  i^*  feldom  fails.    Probatum  eft. 

505.  ^n  Ointment  for  Eyes, 

TAKE  4  ounces  of  may  butter  2  ounces  of  virgins 
wax  2  fcruples  of  tutty  fully  prepared  2  fcruples 
of  camphir  4  fpoonfuUs  of  white  or  red  rofe  water 
melt  the  butter  and  wax  and  then  put  in  all  the 
materialls  and  befure  to  keep  it  ftiring  till  it  be  quite 
cold  when  there  is  occafion  to  ufe  it  take  a  little  of  it 
and  put  it  into  the  palme  of  your  hand  &  when  it  is 
foftned  then  with  your  finger  anoint  all  about  it  on 
the  outfide  of  your  eyes  and  the  temples  the  laft  thing 
you  do  when  you  go  to  bed  if  there  fhould  be  occafion 
to  wafti  ye  eyes  in  the  morning  white  or  red  rofe 
water  is  beft. 

506.  A  PuffPafte. 

TAKE  2  pound  of  flour  a  pound  and  half  of  butter 
2  eggs  3  fpoonfuUs  of  Sack  make  the  pafte  not  to 
ftiflF  with  cold  water  work  it  very  fmooth  rowle  it  out 
4  fquare  beat  up  your  butter  lay  it  on  in  thin  flices 
ftrewing  flour  between  rowle  it  up  again  till  ye  butter 
is  ufed  up  in  a  fheet  as  thick  as  a  finger  half  an  hour 
will  bake  it. 


182 


507.  A  Water  for  Wounds  and  Old  Sores, 

TAKE  2  ounces  of  white  copperas  and  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  camphir  put  them  into  fome  little 
earthen  pot  and  fet  it  in  hot  embers  and  ftir  it  till  it 
be  melted  and  dryed  again  to  a  powder  then  take  2 
ounces  of  boel-armeniack  and  beat  it  fmall  and  mix  it 
with  the  other  powder  when  this  is  done  take  2  pottle 
of  fpring  water  and  let  it  boyle  till  a  quarter  of  it  be 
confumed  then  take  it  off  and  put  half  of  the  powder 
into  it   So  put  it  into  a  glafs  and  keep  it  for  your  ufe 
it  will  keep  a  long  time  before  you  drefs  any  wound 
(ihake  the  glafs  well  then  let  it  fettle  again  leaft  any 
of  the  powder  fhould  be  amongft  it  when  you  drefs 
the  wound  and  fo  eat  into  the  flefli)  which  having 
wafht  well  fould  a  clout  6  or  8   double  weting  it 
throughly  with  ye  fame  water  and  lay  it  on  the  wound 
then  take  another  clout  8  or  10  times  double  as  near 
as  you  can  guess  to  the  bignefs  of  the  wound  or  a 
thought  lefs  and  lay  it  on  the  other  cloth  as  wet  as 
the  former  full  in  the  mouth  of  the  wound  and  fo 
bind  it  on  with  a  swath  or  rowler  it  is  excellent  good 
for  men  to  ufe  y*  have  le  grand  veroll  aue  vierge  pour 
le  laver.    Probatum  eft. 

508.  'The  Wound  Drink, 

TAKE  wormwood  fouthernwood  fanicle  white 
bottles  Ragwort  plantin  ribwort  woodbins  oake- 
buds  dandelyon  mugwort  dayfeyes  roots  and  all 
bramble  buds  herbgreafe  violet  leaves  ftrawberry  leaves 
Suinquefoyle,  angellicoe,  adderftongue  fcordium  wood 
bittoney  agrimoney  hawthorne  buds  bugle  lungewort 
avens  comfry  mints  Scabious  and  pimpernell  thefe 
herbs  are  to  be  gather'd  picked  and  dryed  in  may 
month  then  put  them  in  feverall  papers  &  fo  keep 
them  all  the  year  but  the  buds  are  to  be  gather'd  at 
their  firft  comeing  forth  when  you  make  it  take  one 
handfull  of  each  fort  a  pottle  of  fair  water  and  a  quart 

183 


of  white  wine  boyle  thefe  together  till  half  be  boyled 
away  then  ftrain  the  liquor  from  the  herbs  and  put  to 
it  a  pint  of  honey  then  boyle  it  a  little  till  you  have 
fcummed  it  then  take  it  off  and  let  it  coole  &  keep 
it,  clofe  stop*d  let  the  patient  take  3  fpoonfulls  of  it 
morning  &  evening  firft  &  laft  but  if  for  a  child  2 
fpoonfulls  is  fufficient. 

^he  vertues  of  it. 

IT  cureth  wounds  and  fores  laying  on  them  a plaifter 
of  honey  and  wax  or  one  of  the  following  cere  cloths 
without  tents  it  fcaleth  putrified  bones  breaketh  and 
expelleth  impofthumes  cureth  aches  in  the  ftomach 
expelleth  bullets  &  cureth  the  Ifue  it  ftopeth  bleeding 
at  noftrells  all  wounds  and  broken  veins  the  herbs 
muft  be  gathered  at  the  latter  end  of  april  in  may  or 
ye  beginning  of  June  as  the  feafon  of  the  herbs  are 
w^^  muft  be  dryed  without  Sun  or  fire  comeing  near 
them  &  the  handfulls  mentioned  are  to  be  underftood 
handfulls  of  dry  herbs.   Probatum  Eft. 

509.  "The  Black  Cere  Cloth. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  fallet  oyle  a  pound  of  red  ledd 
boyle  thefe  together  on  a  foft  fire  untill  it  be  black 
then  dip  your  old  linnen  cloth  therein,  and  hang  it 
up  till  it  be  throughly  cold  &  ftiflf  when  it  leaves  its 
clamminefs  &  fticking  to  the  iingQV  it  is  enough  boyled. 
Probatum  eft. 

510.  ^he  White  Cere  Cloth, 

TAKE  a  quart  of  fallet  oyle  red  ledd  half  a  pound 
white  lead  \  a  pound  camfir  2  drams  boyle  thefe 
until  they  leave  their  claminefs  and  ftick  to  ye  finger 
which  is  then  enough  boyled. 

The  poultife  if  occafion  for  any  is  only  milk  thick- 
ened with  white  bread  crums  and  a  quantity  of  fafFron 
as  will  colour  it  to  the  colour  of  the  yolke  of  an  ^gg 
and  the  wound  drink  drank  as  afore  prefcribed. 

184 


511.  Direction  to  cure  Te  Kings  Evil  &'  \ft  for 
the  drink, 

TAKE  agremoney  mugwort  march  fanicle  liverwort 
KIngfwort  coltsfoot  maiden  hair  fcabious  harts 
tongue  of  bittony  of  each  of  all  thefe  a  fmall  handful! 
to  be  boyled  in  6  quarts  of  fpring  water  with  half  a 
pound  of  raifons  of  the  Sun  Stoned  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  currants  8  figgs  better  than  half  a  pound  of 
annyfeeds  one  (lick  of  liquorifh  boyle  all  thefe  together 
til  it  be  confumed  to  3  quarts  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  hair  five  &  cool  it  and  fo  put  it  in  a  pot  and  let  the 
patient  drink  it  in  the  morning  failing  and  again 
about  4  a  clock  in  the  afternoon. 

If  it  muft  be  broken  take  caftle  foap  and  temper  it 
with  barme  &  apply  it  till  it  break  when  it  is  broken 
apply  the  fame  as  long  as  you  fhall  think  there  is 
anything  to  be  drawn  forth  of  the  wound  then  heal  it 
w*^  the  following  Salve : 

512.  A  healing  Salve  for  ye  Kings  Evil. 

TAKE  groundfell  vallerian  elder  buds  or  in  the 
winter  the  inner  rind  of  ye  elder  tree  Ifibpe  brown 
Sage  a  good  handfuU  of  each  fort  half  a  pound  of 
clarified  butter  3  ounces  of  beefwax  one  ounce  of 
rozin  half  a  pound  of  fheeps  fewit  2  ounces  of  hog's 
lard  chop  thefe  herbs  fmall  and  boyle  them  in  thofe 
liquors  foftly  a  quarter  of  an  hour  then  fl:rain  it  and 
fl:ir  it  till  it  be  almofl:  cold  and  then  apply  it  to  the  fore 
but  if  you  think  the  fore  doth  breed  a  worme  then  take 
the  powder  of  a  Sea  crab  fhell  &  all  together  baked 
in  an  oven  and  so  made  to  powder  the  powder  alfo 
of  frankinfence  of  oyle  of  wormwood  an  ounce  and 
the  oyle  of  6  eggs  put  off  ye  powder  of  crab  as  much 
as  will  fill  a  thimble  half  as  much  of  the  powder  of 
frankinfence  ftir  it  together  into  ye  oyle  and  with  a 
feather  put  some  of  it  into  the  wound  under  the 
plaifter. 

185 


< 


To  wafh  it  you  muft  take  warme  white  wine  or 
crab  verjuice,  if  thefe  things  heal  not  then  take  the 
oyle  of  the  fineft  tar  ftir'd  with  a  ftick  the  oyle  will 
come  upon  the  top  which  take  with  a  feather  and 
apply  to  ye  sore. 

513.   'To  raife  a  Blifter. 

IF  you  raife  a  blifter  then  it  muft  not  be  broken 
but  take  fpeare  grafs  and  pound  a  little  of  the 
leaves  putting  a  little  butter  amongft  it  put  alfo  as 
much  of  it  as  a  fmall  nut  and  that  will  raife  a  blifter 
of  the  fame  bignefs  cut  the  blifter  clean  away  and 
then  put  caftle  foap  and  barme  as  aforefaid  to  draw  it 
as  long  as  it  will  yield  anything  then  after  apply  the 
forementioned  Salve  unto  the  sore  and  (God  willing) 
this  will  cure  the  party  in  time.    Probatum  Eft. 

514.  Swallows  Ointment, 

TAKE  lavender  cotten,  fpike,  knot  grafs.  Ribwort 
barme  vallerian,  rofemary  tops  alehoofe,  ftraw- 
berryftrings  woodbine  tops,  vineftrings,  french  mal- 
lows the  tops  of  tutfan,  plantin  leaves,  walnut  leaves, 
the  tops  of  young  bays  IfTope,  violet  leaves.  Sage  of 
virtue,  fine  Roman  wormwood  of  each  of  thefe  one 
hand  full  of  redrofes  and  cammomile  2  handfulls  of 
each  10  young  fwallows  alive  one  quart  of  neats  foot 
oyle  or  may  butter  2  ounces  of  cloves  pound  all  thefe 
together  in  a  morter  fmall  then  put  them  in  an 
earthen  pipkin  and  ftop  it  clofe  with  a  piece  of  dough 
that  no  air  get  in  then  fet  it  in  a  feller  or  coole  place 
9  days  then  take  it  and  open  it  and  add  thereto  a  pint 
of  fallet  oyle  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  yellow  wax  then 
fet  it  over  ye  fire  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  let  it  boyle 
6  or  7  hours  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  ftrain  it  into 
your  pot  to  keep  it  for  your  ufe  keeping  it  clofe 
covered,  it  is  good  for  a  fprain  or  wrinch  or  ache  of 
long  continuance. 

186 


515.  ^he  Lady  Biddolphs  Green  Oyle  to  he  made 
in  May, 

TAKE  red  fage,  rofemary,  lavender  broad  leaved 
balfom  cammomile,  vallerlan  of  each  4  ounces 
wormwood  2  ounces  gather  them  in  a  Sunfhine  day- 
wipe  y™  and  not  wafh  them  chop  them  very  fmall  and 
put  them  into  a  convenient  vefTel  and  put  to  them  a 
quart  of  the  beft  oyle  of  olives  you  can  get  tye  it  up 
clofe  let  it  ftand  in  the  fun  2  or  3  weeks  ftiring  it  once 
in  3  or  4  days  then  put  it  into  a  fkillet  and  boyle  it 
a  little  then  ft  rain  out  all  the  herbs  as  hard  as  you 
can  wring  them  and  put  into  the  oyle  half  the  fame 
quantity  of  herbs  again  and  let  them  ftand  as  before 
in  the  Sun  3  or  4  days  then  fet  them  on  the  fire  which 
must  be  very  gende  and  let  boyle  very  fofdy  till  your 
oyle  is  of  a  perfecfl  green  then  ftrain  out  the  herbs 
and  let  your  oyle  ftand  all  night  in  a  pewter  bafon 
then  fet  your  oyle  on  a  chaft^endifti  of  coles  and  let  it 
boyle  a  while  and  fcumme  it  if  anything  do  arife  then 
take  it  off  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  cold  then  take  a 
glafs  of  the  uppermoft  for  fpecial  ufe  the  reft  put  into 
a  glafs  for  more  ordinary  ufe  if  there  be  any  water  at 
ye  bottom  caft  it  away  or  trye  it  for  eyes  fo  preferv- 
ing  the  balfam  oyle  for  your  ufe. 

^he  vertue  of  it. 

IT  is  good  to  anoint  and  tent  all  fores  or  wounds 
for  it  doth  heal  firft  at  the  bottom  it  will  not  fufFer 
proud  or  dead  flefti  to  grow  in  a  wound  it  draws  out 
thornes  and  fplinters,  it  is  excellent  for  bruifes  in 
any  part  of  ye  body  to  anoint  the  place  outwardly  or 
to  take  inwardly  to  drink  10  or  12  drops  to  a  man 
or  woman  and  half  fo  much  to  a  child  in  a  fpoonfull  of 
ale  or  white  wine  poflet  drink  and  drink  a  little  more 
poflet  drink  after  it  3  or  4  nights  and  mornings  it 
will  drive  out  any  bruifed  blood  out  of  the  body  you 
may  give  it  to  a  woman  after  her  travell  it  is  good  for 

187 


deafnefs  that  comes  by  cold  drop  3  or  4  at  night  and 
morning  for  2  or  3  days  together  fo  ufed  it  will  help 
an  impofthume  in  the  head  break  and  heal  it  you 
may  drop  into  the  eye  if  it  be  bruifed  with  a  blow  it 
is  good  to  anoint  ye  throat  for  the  fwelling  of  the 
almonds  and  to  drop  into  ye  ear  for  ye  toothache. 

516.  "To  ft  op  Bleeding  if  a  Veine  he  cut  of  under, 

TAKE  the  fhell  of  goofe  or  hen  that  the  chick 
comes  out  of  when  hacht  &  make  it  into  powder 
being  firft  burnt  and  caft  thereon  &  it  ftanch  it 
prefently.    Probatum  Eft. 

517.  For  the  Jaundice. 

TAKE  a  handfull  of  earth  wormes  and  put  them 
awhile  in  fait  &  water  to  cleanfe  themfelves  then 
put  them  into  a  quart  of  white  wine  to  fteep  until 
they  diflblve  then  ftrain  them  out  then  put  to  the 
ftrain^d  liquor  4  penny  worth  of  englifli  fafFron  and 
let  that  fteep  well  in  it  alfo  and  let  the  party  grieved 
take  of  this  liquor  thus  prepared  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
firft  in  the  morning  and  at  4  a  clock  in  the  after- 
noon and  laft  at  night.    Probatum  Eft. 

518.  Dr.  Willis  his  ele^uarie  for  a  "Dead  Palfey. 

TAKE  conferve  of  fage  flowers,  bittony  Rofemary 
of  each  an  ounce  the  flowers  of  turrica  2  ounces 
preferved  Mirobalence  number  2  preferved  nutmegs 
2  drams  fpirits  diambra,  Salt  of  wormwood,  powder 
of  pioney  roots  and  of  pioney  feeds  of  each  one  dram 
white  amber  white  corral  prepared  of  each  2  fcruples 
&  a  half  with  a  fufficient  quantity  of  firrop  of  ftoechas 
to  make  it  into  an  eledluarie. 


188 


519'  His  Whey  for  ye  fame  Palfey. 

TAKE  bittony  fage  mugwort  pennyroyall  fumetory 
of  each  one  handfull  damafk  rofe  leaves  3  hand- 
fulls  epythum  2  ounces  corriander  &  fweet  fennell 
feeds  of  each  an  ounce  cut  thefe  and  dry  them  in  the 
fhade  and  fo  keep  y™  for  your  ufe  mixing  them  al- 
together one  handfull  of  thefe  herbs  muft  be  boyled 
in  new  whey  a  quarter  of  an  hour  &  ye  liquor  drank 
when  almoft  cold. 

The  above  mentioned  Eledluary  prefcribed  to  be 
taken  every  morning  very  early  in  your  bed  and  laft 
at  night  the  quantity  of  a  nutmeg. 

520.  An  Eye  JVater. 

TAKE  a  new  earthen  veflel  never  ufed  &  fo  many 
gallons  as  it  will  hold  pound  fo  many  ounces  of 
white  copperice  in  fine  powder  &  when  fnow  is  on 
the  ground  frefh  gather  it  very  clean  and  put  fome 
fnow  in  the  pot  &  then  fome  of  the  powder  doing  fo 
untill  all  the  copperice  powder  be  fpent  and  the  veflel 
full  then  cover  it  with  a  clean  cloth  &  fet  it  in  a  cellar 
till  the  fnow  is  all  melted  off  the  ground  then  ftrain 
it  &  keep  it  for  ufe  in  bottles. 

It  is  good  for  Ruehmetick  eyes  being  dropt  in 
when  they  go  to  bed  it  will  take  away  pearls  phillmes, 
webbs  &  blood  fheds  in  eyes  if  you  take  a  piece  of 
red  rofe  cake  enough  to  cover  and  foake  it  in  fome  of 
this  water  warme  and  lay  it  to  the  eye  when  you  go 
to  bed  and  let  it  lay  on  ye  eye  till  the  next  morning. 
In  ihort  it  is  good  for  all  diftempers  in  ye  eyes  &  for 
old  fores  in  legs  if  bathed  warme  with,  but  to  drop  in 
ye  eyes  it  muft  be  cold. 

521.  ^0  make  Wigs. 

TAKE  3  pound  and  a  half  of  flour  a  pound  of 
butter  melt'd  in  a  pint  of  milk  a  quart  of  yeft 
half  a  pound  of  Sugar  mixt  into  the  milk  butter  & 

189 


yeft  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  and  mace  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  carraway  feeds  a  little  fait  and  put  all  this 
into  the  flour  and  mix  it  up  into  a  pretty  ftifF  pafte 
then  weigh  them  into  4  ounces  a  piece  &  rowle  them 
into  wigs  &  bake  them  upon  paper  or  tin  plates 
butter'd. 

522.  Fills  for  Vapours  of  Spleen  ^  Fits  of  ye  Mother 
to  Supprefs  and  cure  them, 

TAKE  caftor,  fafFron,  Gallbanum  orfephetita  and 
make  them  into  fine  powder  of  each  half  an  ounce, 
half  an  ounce  of  methridate  added  in  which  well  mix 
your  powder  with  as  much  oyle  of  amber  as  will  make 
it  into  pills  of  the  largeft  flze  (or  half  an  ounce  of  the 
powder)  as  the  receipt  expreft  and  then  as  much  oyle 
of  amber  as  will  make  it  up  in  pills  and  of  them  one 
large  or  2  middle  fize  when  you  find  the  fits  comeing 
keeping  y^  felfe  fafting  an  hour  before  &  an  hour  after 
but  if  followed  with  ye  fits  then  take  one  of  them 
being  of  ye  largeft  fize  morning  afternoon  and  laft  at 
night  if  you  drink  anything  after  them  let  it  be  a 
little  hyftericall  water. 


T 


523.  For  a  Cold, 

^AKE  4  ounces  of  old  conferve  of  red  rofes  2 
ounces  of  white  fugar  candie  2  ounces  of  raifons 
of  the  Sun  Stoned  beat  all  thefe  till  well  incorporated 
then  add  the  quantity  of  a  fmall  walnut  of  diefcordium 
and  2  fpoonfuUs  of  Sirrop  of  popies  7  drops  of  oyle  of 
fulphur  1 1  drops  of  fpirit  of  vitriol  mingle  all  thefe 
very  well  together  and  take  of  it  as  much  as  a  large 
nutmeg  firft  in  the  morning  fafting  2  or  3  hours  after 
it  &  laft  at  night  leting  it  melt  (as  it  were)  gentiy 
down  y^  throat. 


190 


524.  For  the  Scurvy. 

TAKE  one  good  handful!  of  pine  tree  tops  &  bruife 
them  and  infufe  y™  in  one  quart  of  white  wine 
or  renifh  3  or  4  hours  then  take  one  good  handfull 
of  dandilyon  boyle  it  in  one  quart  of  new  milk  make 
it  into  a  posset  with  the  wine  take  off  the  curd  pour 
the  drink  fcaulding  hot  upon  brooklimes,  water  crefles, 
fea  fcurvy  grafs  garden  fcurvy  grafs  of  each  a  large 
handfull  with  the  rine  of  a  lemon  cover  it  &  drink 
every  morning  &  afternoon  a  quarter  of  a  pint  fweeten 
in  with  Sirrop  made  of  oringe  juice  &  wormwood  cold 
ftiird  water— drink  this  ale  april  and  feptember. 

525.  To  make  the  Convulfion  Water, 

TAKE  2  quarts  of  Spring  water  and  put  therein 
half  a  handfull  of  bittony  and  as  much  plantin 
and  Spermint  &  whore  hound  a  quarter  of  a  handfull 
of  centry  and  as  much  cardus  half  a  handfull  of  fingle 
pioney  roots  green  &  half  a  handfull  of  burdock  roots 
green  &  both  diced  very  thin  half  an  ounce  of  hart's 
home  &  half  an  ounce  of  fweet  fennell  feed  bruifed  a 
little  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  baftorium  and  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  AfTifetita  ftop  all  thefe  very  clofe  in  a 
ftone  jugg  and  fet  it  in  a  kettle  of  feething  water  up 
to  the  neck  of  the  jugg  &  let  it  ftand  feething  8  hours 
then  take  it  out  and  let  it  ftand  clofe  ftopt  till  next 
day  then  put  it  out  into  a  brafs  pot  and  add  to  it  a  quart 
of  cardus  water  and  a  quart  of  fpermint  water  half  a 
pint  of  red  rofe  water  &  half  a  pint  of  old  malligo 
Sack  then  put  a  fmall  handfull  of  bittony  &  as  much 
plantin  and  Spermin  and  whorehound  and  a  quarter 
of  a  handfull  of  centry  and  as  much  cardus  one  hand- 
full  of  (ingle  pioney  roots  and  a  handfull  of  burdock 
roots  fliced  2  ounces  &  a  half  of  harts  home  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  fweet  fennellfeeds  bruifed  3  quarters  of 
an  ounce  of  baftorium  and  half  an  ounce  of  Affifetita 

191 


and  one  nutmeg  fllced  ftop  this  pot  very  clofe  that  no 
breath  may  come  out  and  on  the  cover  fet  a  weight  of 
1 8  or  20  pounds  keep  this  to  a  moderate  heat  8  hours 
more  then  let  it  ftand  clofe  ftopt  till  the  next  day  then 
open  it  &  ftrain  it  out  and  put  therein  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  malligo  Sack  &  half  a  pint  of  annyfeed  water 
&  a  lb.  or  more  of  jeans  treacle  put  it  up  into  bottles 
&  feed  it  w*^  treacle  when  you  fee  fit  all  the  herbs 
muft  be  very  dry. 

526.  For  the  Tellow  Jaundice  or  Collick  in  the  Stomach 
or  the  Con/umption^  Obftru5lions  in  ye  Liver  Spleen 
iS  efpecially  for  ye  Falling  Sicknejs, 

TAKE  a  peck  of  garden  fnails  and  wafh  them  in  a 
great  bowle  of  beer  &  then  make  your  chinney 
very  clean  and  pour  half  a  bufhell  of  charcole  &  fet 
y™  afire  and  when  they  are  throughly  kindled  then 
with  a  fhoule  make  a  great  hole  in  the  midft  of  the 
fire  and  pour  in  your  fnails  &  fcatter  in  fome  of  your 
fire  amongft  them  and  fo  let  them  reft  as  long  as  you 
hear  them  make  a  noife  then  you  muft  take  them  out 
of  the  fire  and  pick  them  out  of  their  fhells  with  a 
knife  and  with  a  coarfe  cloth  pick  and  wipe  all  the 
green  froth  from  them  then  in  a  ftone  morter  bruife 
them  fhells  and  all  next  take  a  quart  of  earth  wormes 
and  flit  them  then  fcoure  them  with  fait  then  wafh 
them  and  break  them  in  pieces  in  a  ftone  morter  then 
(the  pot  being  very  clean  uppon  which  you  fet  your 
limbeck)  put  them  into  it  and  about  2  handfulls  of 
Angelico  to  put  into  the  bottom  &  2  handfulls  of 
fallendine  then  put  in  a  quart  of  rofemary  flowers  if 
you  pleafe  you  may  put  in  Egremony  of  red  dock 
roots,  bear  foot,  the  inner  rine  of  barberry  roots  of 
woodforrell  &  bittony  of  each  2  handfulls  of  rew  half 
a  handfuU  of  Fenegrick  &  Turmerick  of  each  an 
ounce  of  Saffron  well  Dry*d  and  beaten  to  powder 
the  weight  of  6  pence  then  pour  into  all  thefe  3  gallons 

192 


of  the  ftrongeft  Ale  you  can  get  cover  your  pot  &  let 
it  ftand  all  night  in  the  place  where  you  mean  to  put 
fire   to  it  in   the    morning  you  muft  put   to   them 

3  ounces  of  very  good  cloves  beaten  to  powder  and 
before  you  put  your  fire  to  it  with  6  ounces  of  good 
Harts  home  you  muft  not  ftir  it  after  you  have  put 
in  the  Harts  home  left  it  go  down  to  ye  bottom  then 
fet  on  the  limbeck  and  make  it  faft  and  fo  receive  the 
water  by  pints  the  firft  water  is  beft  and  ftrongeft  & 
muft  be  received  by  its  Selfe  ye  laft  is  fmalleft  and 
may  be  mended  by  putting  the  ftrongeft  to  it  when 
it  is  ufed  this  water  muft  be  given  to  the  patient  in  a 
morning  who  muft  faft  2  hours  after  it  and  not  fleep 
upon  it  or  it  may  be  given  i  hours  after  each  meale 
he  or  fhe  muft  take  2  fpoonfulls  of  the  ftrongeft  w*^ 

4  fpoonfulls  of  Ale  or  white  wine  and  when  you  give 
ye  fmalleft  you  muft  give  as  much  water  as  drink. 
This  has  been  aproved  &  is  an  excellent  cordial. 

527.  An  Oyle  for  any  deep  wound  or  wounds  through  the 
Body  or  wounds  made  w^^  an  envenomed  Weapon^ 
or  Sinews  Prickt, 

TAKE  white  wine  or  rather  fo  much  brown  baftard, 
one  quart  of  oyle  of  olives  2  quarts,  one  quart  of 
the  oyle  of  turpentine  put  all  thefe  together  in  a  great 
double  glafs  and  with  them  of  ye  leaves  flowers 
Hieperig  on  andfeeds  of  St  Johnfwort  of  each  2  great 
handfuUs  gently  bruifed  fet  the  glafs  in  the  fun  clofe 
ftopt  8  or  10  days  then  boyle  them  in  a  kettle  with 
ftraw  at  the  bottom  for  ye  glafs  to  ftand  upon  and 
when  it  hath  gently  boyled  a  great  while  then  take 
off  the  kettle  and  coole  it  by  degrees  and  then  take 
out  the  glafs  and  ftrain  out  all  the  moifture  from  the 
herbs  and  put  it  into  the  glafs  again  with  2  of  the 
frefti  leaves  of  St  Johnfwort  and  of  the  flowers  & 
feeds  of  each  two  handfulls  &  then  fet  them  in  the 
fun  as  before  8  or  10  days  then  boyle  and  ftrain  them 

193  o 


as  before  &  fo  have  you  a  oyle  for  all  the  purpofes 
beforementioned  &  every  year  let  it  be  again  clarified 
in  ye  fun. 

528.  'The  Count e/s  of  Briftolls  Black  Salve. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  white  lead  as  muchLietheriegie 
of  gold  finely  beaten  &  fearch'd  into  a  quart  of 
fallet  oyle  then  take  4  ounces  of  yellow  wax  &  3  drams 
of  camphire  boyle  them  together  on  a  good  fire  till 
they  grow  very  black  and  6  hours  after  this  is  an 
exceeding  good  fkining  Salve.    Probatum  Eft. 

529.  An  Ointment  to  cure  old  Sores ^  to  Je arch  Fiftolas^ 
to  eate  Dead  Flejh  and  to  dry  up  Wattery 
Humors, 

TAKE  verdigreefe  5  drams  Honey  14  drams,  white 
wine  vinegar  5  drams  boyle  them  on  a  foft  fire 
and  flir  them  well  together  till  it  come  to  a  red  fub- 
ftance  &  fo  keep  it  for  ufe.    Probata  Eft. 

530.   To  make  Milke  Punch. 

TAKE  5  quarts  of  Brandy  8  quarts  of  water  and 
two  of  new  milke,  four  dozen  of  lemons,  three 
nutmegs,  a  pound  and  half  of  double  refin'd  fugar, 
pare  one  dozen  of  the  lemons  very  thin  leaving  none 
of  the  white,  infufe  the  parings  in  fome  of  the  brandy 
about  three  hours  with  the  nutmegs  grated,  diflblve 
the  fugar  in  water  before  you  putt  it  to  the  brandy, 
fqueeze  in  the  lemons  and  let  all  the  ingredients  be 
mixt  together,  then  put  them  all  into  a  bag  of  thick 
flannel  &  let  it  run  without  ftirring,  let  about  a  quart 
run  out,  then  put  it  into  the  bag  againe,  fo  repeat  it 
till  it  is  fine. 

531.  For  the  Farcy  in  a  Hor/e, 

TAKE  three  ounces  of  Sal  Tartar,  one  ounce  of 
lapis  Calaminary,  one  ounce  of  Putty  pulverized  ; 
boyl  two  quarts  of  ftale  pifs,  one  quart  of  Ale,  one 

194 


handfull  of  Rue  till  It  comes  to  one  quart,  then  give 
it  the  horfe  fafting;  if  you  finde  the  horfe  very  fick 
in  taking  it,  you  may  the  next  time  abate  a  fmall 
matter  of  the  quantity,  by  this  twice  repeated  I  have 
cur*d  an  inveterate  Farcy;  but  let  him  reft  three  or 
four  daies  between. 

532.  T(9  cure  the  Greaje  in  a  Horfe. 

TAKE  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Rozin,  two 
ounces  of  Sal  Prunella,  two  ounces  of  ftone  Brim- 
ftone  all  in  fine  powders;  boyle  three  pints  of  brine 
&  three  pints  of  ftale  Urine  till  it  comes  to  three 
pints  in  the  hole,  ftrain  it  thro  a  woollen  bag,  and 
when  tis  cold  ftir  in  the  faide  powders  and  give  it  the 
horfe  fafting,  and  in  two  hours  time  give  him  corne 
and  as  much  warme  water  with  a  little  bran  in  it,  as 
he  will  drinke,  give  him  exercife  as  foon  as  he  has 
taken  the  drink,  and  every  time  you  give  him  water; 
Note  your  liquor  must  be  very  cold  before  you  mix 
your  powders  with  it:  give  him  three  Drinks  refting 
about  four  daies  between,  and  the  whole  quantity  in 
each  Drink; 

The  Oyntment  if  the  Horfe  be  very  fore: 
Take  two  ounces  of  the  beft  Aloes  and  two  ounces 
of  fpirits  of  Wine  made  into  a  falve  over  the  fire. 


195 


THE  TABLE 


For  an  Ache.     1 84. 
For  Agues.    296,  503,  504. 
Almond  Loaves.     322. 
Angelicoe  to  Dry.     406. 
Apples  green  to  Preferve.  25. 
Apricocks  to  Drye.     75,  77, 

115. 
To  Preferve  them  Green, 

104. 
Apricocks  to  preferve.     131. 
Apples  Pafties.     312. 
Aqua   Mirabilis.       10,    178, 

410. 

Balfam.     39,  57. 

To  Bake  a  Bullock's  Head. 

260. 
Barberrys  to  Preferve.     318. 
Bacon  Gamon  to  Dry,    387, 

402. 
Rump  of  Beef  to  ftew.     1 4. 
Rump  of  Beef  to  Bake.     1 7. 
Beef  to  Coller.     133,340. 
Beef  to  Pot.     156. 
BeefCollops.     190. 
Beef  to  boyle.     341. 
Bed  Tickins  to  Prepare.  477. 
Bilkit.     16,  58,  99,  320. 
Fruit  Bifkit.     23. 
Spanifh  Bilkit.     278. 
Italian  Bifkit.     450. 
French  Bilkit.     451. 


Naples  Bilkit.     453. 

Bite  of  Mad  Dog.    1 65,  251 , 

252. 
Bleeding  to  flop.     516. 
French  Bread.     114,329. 
For  a  Bruife.     184. 
Black  Cherry  Brandy.     232. 
Strengthening  Broth.     307. 
Fovi^l  Breath.     462. 
For  a  Burn.    244,  245,  249. 
Almond  Butter.     286,  330. 

Cake.     87,   157,    328,  333, 

348. 
Woodftreet  Cake.     i. 
Almond  Cakes.     15,  394. 
Oringe  Cakes.     48,  61. 

euince  Cakes  Red.     59. 
uince  clear,  Cakes.     60. 
Apricock  Cakes.     62,  65. 
Rafberry  Cakes.     72. 
Clear  Cakes.     81,  439. 
Carroway  Cake.     86,  345. 
Sugar  Cakes.     91,  319,  396. 
Little  Cakes.     92,  135. 
Bean  Cakes.     118. 
Angelicoe  Cakes.     121. 
Portugal  Cakes.     379. 
Canker  to  kill.     46,  225. 
Angelicoe  to  Candy.     146. 
Clear  Rock  Candy.     442. 
To  Candy  Grapes,  etc.   438. 


197 


To  Sucket  Candy  Oringes, 

etc.     443. 
To  Candy  Flowers  ye  Span- 

ifh  way.     444. 
To  Roft  a  Carp.     273. 
Cere  Cloth.     18,  486,  509, 

510. 
Cherries  to  Drye.     64,  117. 
Cherrie  Water.     93. 
Cherrie  Wine.      134,  378. 
Cordial  Cherry  Water.    305. 
Cherries  to  Preferve.     344. 
Cheefe  Cakes.     103,  321. 
A  Flefh  Cheefe.     138. 
Angelot  Cheefe.     283,  284, 

467. 
A  Thick  Cheefe.     285. 
Cream  Cheefe.     381,  466. 
A  Butter  Cheefe.     479. 
For  Chilblains.     244. 
Chocolate  to  make.     395. 
Peftorals  for  a  Cold.    2,  377. 
Convuliions  to  Cure.     167, 

220,     221,    222,    224, 

304,  525. 
Cold  to  Cure.     22,  29,  32, 

197,204,292,492,523. 
Cough  to  Cure.     31,33,34, 

231*  301.  490>  491- 
For  the  Confumption.     302. 

Confer  ve  of  Fruits.  428,429. 

A  Cordial  Powder.     37,  38. 

Cordial  organy  water.     139. 

A  cordial  water.     145. 

Dr.  Stevens  Water.     182. 

Imperial  Water.     186. 

Palfey  Water.     187. 

Melancholy  Water.     191. 

A  Rich  Cordial.     282. 

Gafcoins     Cordial    Powder. 

295. 
Conferve  of  Rofes  a  Cordial. 

369- 


A  Cordial  Eleduary.     400. 
A  Cordial  for  Cholick.    414. 
Counterpoyfon  Cordial.   419, 
Mufkadine  Comfits.     449. 
Almond  Cream.     83,  153. 
Quince  Cream.     95. 
Lady  Ingrams  Cream.     96. 
Pyramid  Cream.     97. 
Clouted  Cream.     112,  123. 
Cabage  Cream.     119,335. 
Lemon  Cream.     122,  152. 
A  Cream.     137. 
Runnet  Cream.     309. 
Egg  Cream.     310. 
Plumme  Cream.     311. 
A  Cheefe  Cream.     313. 
The  Spanifh  Cream.     334. 
Trifle  Cream  ye  French  way. 

349. 
Cracknels  to  make.  1 68,  315. 
Almon  Cuftards.     487. 
Cucumbers  to  pickle.     417. 


Damofens  to  preferve.     69. 
Damofens  to  keep.  337,  493. 
Deafnefs  to  Cure.     1 60, 218, 

238. 
A  Diet  Drink.     208. 
Pippin  Drink.     374. 
For  ye  Dropfy.     175. 
To  Dry  Fruits.     440. 
To  Dry  them  without  Sugar. 

441. 
Ebulum  to  make.     5. 
Eels  to  ftew.     259. 
Eels  to  Coller.     275. 
Eye  water.     43,    219,  281, 

520. 
Eye  powder.     52,  294. 
Filme  in  Eye  to  cure.     161. 
Ointment    for    eyes.     194, 

505. 


98 


Vomit  for  Falling  Sicknefs. 

229. 
For  Faintings.     273. 
Wafh  for  Face.     308,  464. 
Feavor  in  Children.     47. 
Fits.  Vide  Mother. 
Convulfion    Fits.      4,    220, 

221,  222,  227,  413. 
Flowers  to  dry.     207. 
Flowers  to  Candy.     365. 
Floors  of  Dale  to  Varnifh. 

214. 
Forced  Meat.     28. 
Frigacy  of  Chickens.     30. 
Water  for   Falling  Sicknefs, 

Jaundice,  etc.     526. 
For   the  Farcy  in  a  Horse. 

Gafcoins  Powder.     295. 
Goofberries      to       Preferve. 

105,  126,  372,  373. 
A  Goofberry  Fool.     261. 
Goolberrys  to  dry.     406. 
Gout  to  cure.     202,  236. 
Grapes  to  preferve,   354,  392. 
For    Green    Sicknefs.     290, 

293- 
To  cure  the  Greafe  in  a  Horfe. 

532. 

Hams    to    fait.     140,    210, 

387,  402. 
Harfti  of  Calves  Head.     27. 
For   Giddinefs  in   ye   Head. 

13,  174. 
Heartburning  to  Cure.    380. 
Water  for  the  Head.     484. 
Hippocras.     383. 
Hyfterick  Fits.     413,  415. 

Jaundice  to  cure.     159, 180, 
299,517- 


Jelly   to    make.     loi,    127, 

398. 

Jelly  of  Currance,  etc.     158. 
Jelly  of  Harts  home.     376. 
Icing  for  Cakes.     391. 
Jimbols  to  make.     98,  360. 
Imperial  Water.     186. 
For  an  Impofthume.     239. 
Iringo  roots  to  Candy.     356. 
Iringo  roots  to  dry.     386. 
Itch  to  cure.     177. 
Plumme  Jumbols.     116. 

i  King's  Evil.    185,212,511, 


512,513- 

Lace  to  wafh.     211. 
Lemon  water.     19. 
Lemons    to    preferve.     106, 

342. 
Leg    of  Mutton    to    Roaft. 

Juice  of  Liquorifh.     501. 
For  Loofenefs  in   Lying  in. 

233- 
Lozenges  of  Flowers.     445. 


!  Marmalade  of  Apricocks.  65* 
j  Of  Quinces,  White.    66,82. 

Of  Quinces,  Red.     78,425. 
"481. 

Of  Pippins.     82. 
I  OfOringes.     88. 
i   OfPlummes.     427. 
j  A  March  Paine.     446. 
1  Macaroons.     452,  488. 
j  Metheglin.      8,    323,    324, 

332*  352,  353- 
Mead  to  make.     55,  90. 
Mifcarrying  to  prevent.    196. 
Milk  water.     217. 
I  Minc'd  Pyes.     483. 

99 


Mother  Fits.     24,  26,  216, 

224,  227. 
Sore  Mouth  to  cure.     179. 
Moths  to  deftroy.    461,472, 

..     473- 

Mumme  to  make.     50. 

Nipples  to  Harden.     164. 

Oringe  water.     1 9,  422. 
Oringes    to    preferve.      106, 

129,  342,  358. 
Oringes  to  keep.     480. 
China   Oringes   to  preferve. 

347. 
Oyfter  Porridge.     338. 

Oyfters  to  pickle.     384. 

A  Green  oyntment.     465. 

A  Healing  Oyntment.    494. 

Oyntment  of  Swallows.  514. 

Oyle  for  fores.     515. 

An  oyntment  for  old  fores, 

etc.     529. 

Pafte  of  Peaches.     76. 
Pafte  of  Apricocks.     1 20. 
Cracknell  Pafte.     168,  315. 
Jumbal  Pafte.     169. 
PufF  Pafte.     264,  506. 
Pafte  of  Ginnay.     424. 
Pafte  of  Oringes  or  Lemons. 

426. 
Pafte  of  Plummes.     427. 
Pafte  Royal  of  Fruits.     431. 
Palfey  Water.     187. 
For    ye    Palfey.      234,    247, 

248. 
Pafty  Cruft.     263. 
Pancakes.     339,  351. 
Eledluary  for  ye  Palfey.  518. 

519. 
For  ye  Sinking  of  the  Pallat. 

183,226,243. 

Perfumed  Water.     49. 


A  Perfume  to  burne.     458, 

468,  470. 
A  Perfume  for  Starch.     459, 
To  Perfume  Gloves.     460. 
Perfume  for   Linnen.     469, 

To  Perfume  Bedding.     478. 
Peaches  to  Dry.     75,  393. 
To  Pickle  Muftirooms.   124. 
To    Pickle     Kidny    Beans. 

147,416. 
To  Pickle  Turnips.     148. 
To  Pickle  Oyfters.     149. 
To  Pickle  Broom  Buds.  150, 

3^3- 
Pickle  for  Brawn.      258. 

To  Pickle  Trouts  or  Salmon. 

276. 
To  Pickle  Violets.     371. 
Fig  to  Souce.     130. 
Dr.  Moore's  Pills.     141. 
Piles  Inwardly.     205,  206. 
Pidgeons  to  encreafe.     246. 
Pidgeons  to  Stew.     271. 
Plague  Water.     3. 
For  the  Plague.     176,  181. 
Plaifter  for  Sprains,  &c.    198. 
Plummes  to  Dry.     406. 
Poflet   to    make.      67,    109, 

366. 
Poflet  without  Milk.     326. 
Point  to  Wafh.     211. 
Pomatum  to  make.     230. 
To  Pot  Hare.     279. 
Poultrey  to  fat.     287. 
Oyfter  Porridge.     338. 
Pottage.     359. 
Poultife   for   a   Sore   Breaft. 

418. 
A  Poultife.     497. 
Pomander  to  make.  457,482. 
To  Preferve  Plummes  white. 

80. 


200 


To   Preferve    Pippins.     89, 

343- 
To  Preferve  Plummes  Green. 

364- 
To  Preserve  ye  Water  Melon. 

423. 
To    Preferve   Fruits  Green. 

432. 
To  Preferve  Plumbs.     433, 

434. 
To    Preferve     Grapes,    etc. 

435- 
To  Preferve  Quinces  white. 

436. 
For  Proud  Flefti.     209. 
Oringe   Pudding.     68,  254, 

401. 
Almond  Pudding.    48,  142, 

269. 
Almond  Puddings.    94,  296. 
Quaking  Pudding.    85,  257. 
Black  Puddings.     107. 
White  Puddings.     108. 
Carrot  Pudding.     136. 
Oatmeal  Pudding.     215. 
Puddings  4  in  a  Dilh.     270. 
Marrow  Pudding.     355. 
A   Purge.     163,    192,   193, 

289. 
Sugar  PufFs.     327. 
Chicken     Pye    with    Sweet 

Seafonings.  274. 
A  Lumber  Pye.  277. 
Punch  to  make.  530. 
Pedorals  for  a  Cold.     2. 


Quidony  of  Plummes.     430. 
Quince  to  preferve  red.     79. 
White    preferve    &    whole. 
125. 

euinces  to  Preferve.     4?6. 
umces  to  keep  raw.     437. 


Rafberries  to  Preferve.     70, 

74,  128. 
A  Ragou  of  Veal.     489. 
To    Refrefh     Carpets,    etc. 

474. 
To  Refrefh  Gold  Lace.  475. 
To  Refrefh  Pictures.     476. 
Rickets    to    Cure.     35,    44, 

45,  56. 
For  a  Rupture.     173. 

Sack  to  make  Fine.     199. 
Sawce  for  BoyFd  Fifh.    256. 
Sawce  for   Boyled  Mutton. 

265. 
Sawce  for  all  Stewed  Meats. 

268. 
Sauceages  to  make.     143. 
Scaulds.    See  Burns. 
Scurvy  to  Cure.     170,  524. 
A  Tenting  Salve.     496. 
A  Drawing  Salve.     495. 
A  Sherbet.     336. 
Sirrop  of  Lemons.     53. 
Sirrop   of  Violets.     63,    73, 

42. 
Sirrop  of  Clove  Jilly  Flowers, 

&c.     54,  73. 
Sirrop  of  Buckthorne.     155. 
Snow   for   Syllabubs.      iii, 

154. 
Spleen  Plaifler.     9. 
For   the   Stone.     171,   200, 

201,  241,  242, 250, 300, 

485,  502. 
Stag  Powder.     237. 
Stomach  Paine.     316. 
To  take  Stains  out  of  Linnen. 

362. 
For  a  Strain.     500,  198. 
Sugar  Cakes.     100. 
Surfeit    Water.     113,    498, 

499- 


201 


To  Sugar  any  Herbs  or  Fruit 

to  Dry.     346. 
To  Boyle  Sugar  to  a  Candy 

Hight.     456. 
To  Boyle  Sugar  to  a  Manus 

Chrifti.     455. 
Sugar  Plate.     447. 
Sweet  Bag.     132. 
Sweet  Meat  like  Bacon.  357. 
Cockle     Shell     Sweetmeat. 

408. 
To   Mould    Sweetmeats    in 

Shape    of    Fruits,    etc. 

448,  454. 
Sweet  Water.     420. 
Swelling  to  AlTwage.     162. 
Syllabub  to  make,     no,  325. 
Whipt  Syllabubs.     144. 
A  Healing  Salve.     528. 


Tanfie  to  make.     255. 
Teeth  Powder,     306,  463. 
Almond  Tarts.     397. 
Sore  Throat  to  Cure.     179, 

203,  240. 
Tongues  to  Salt.     1 40,  388. 


Vapours.     522. 
Venison  to  Pot.     40,  404. 
Venifon  to  Fry.     403. 
Haunch  of  Venifon  to  Boyle. 

272. 
Haunch  of  Venifon  to  Roaft. 


407. 
Veal  Collups. 


189,  399- 


Vinegar  to   make.     6,  375, 

411. 
Elder  Vinegar.     385. 
Vomiting  to  flop.    228,  317. 

Walnuts  to  Preferve.     102. 
To  Wafh  Lace.     211. 
To  Wafh  Gloves.     280. 
For  thofe  which  make  Bloody 

Water.     288. 
Dutch  Wafers.     314. 
A  White  Pot.     267. 
Goosberry  Wine.     7,  361. 
Celeriony  Wine.     71. 
Cowflip  Wine.     20,  41,  42. 
Quince  Wine.     51. 
Cherry  Wine.     134,  378. 
Rafberry  or  Currant  Wine. 

151. 
Currant  Wine.     195,  409. 
Nants  Wine  to  Counterfeit, 

213. 
Rafberry  Wine.     331. 
Wine  of  Plummes.     350. 
Barberry  Wine.     367. 
Apricock  Wine.     368. 
For    Wind    in   ye    Bladder, 

235.  . 
For  ye  Wind.     303. 
Wigs.     12,  521. 
Pafl  for  Wigs.     405. 
Worms  to  kill.     21,  36,  172. 
Man  Wormes  to  Kill.     166. 
Green  Wounds.     291. 
Water  for  Wounds.      507. 
Wound  Drink.     508. 
An  Oyle  for  Wounds,  527. 


202 


GLOSSARY 

AvENs.  Geum  Urbanum.  Herb  Bennet.  Flower  Yellow. 
Perennial.  Roots  fcented  like  cloves,  fudorific,  tonic, 
antipodagric  ftomachic.  When  young  the  roots  give 
a  pleafant  flavour  to  ale.  They  are  faid  to  be  ufeful  in 
diarrhoea. 

Benjamin.  Styrax  Benzoin.  A  gum  exuded  from  a  fpecies 
of  laurel.  Stimulant.  Is  the  principal  ingredient  in 
Friar's  Balsam. 

Bole  Armeniack.  Armenian  Bole.  Several  minerals  were 
formerly  ufed  in  medicine  under  this  name.  The  Ar- 
menian Bole  of  the  prefent  day  is  ufually  made  by  mix- 
ing pipe-clay  or  common  chalk  with  oxide  of  iron  or 
red  ochre. 

Cardomum.  Elettaria  Cardamomum.  Amomum  Repens. 
Repens.  True  Cardamom.  Seeds,  ftimulant,  affifting 
digeftion,  largely  ufed  in  medicine.  Strong,  pungent, 
but  aromatic  odour  when  bruifed. 

Cardus.  Cardunus  is  probably  this  herb,  and  there  is  a 
great  variety.  It  is  evidently  one  of  the  Thiftles,  or  the 
Artichoke. 

CoMMiNG  Seed.  Cumin.  Cyminum  Cumin.  Seeds  car- 
minative, fmell  difagreeable,  chiefly  ufed  in  veterinary 
medicine. 

Crab's  Eyes,  or  Crafish  Eyes.  Concretions  found  in  the 
ftomach  of  the  river  Crawfifh.  They  are  white,  and 
refemble  in  appearance  miniature  mufhrooms.  They 
vary  in  fize  from  a  quarter  to  five-eights  of  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Formerly  ufed  as  abforbents  and  antacids. 
Only  to  be  found  to-day  in  Mufeums.  Prepared  chalk 
ufed  inflead. 

203 


CuBiBs.  Cubebs.  Piper  Cubebae.  A  pepper,  contains  an 
oil  largely  ufed  in  medicine.  Aromatic,  pungent,  ftimu- 
lant,  and  purgative. 

Dyascordirum.  Diafcordium.  An  electuary  which  was  for- 
merly in  high  repute  as  an  antipeftilential.  The  Swedifli 
Pharmacopeia  of  1845  had  a  formula  for  this,  and  the 
principal  ingredient  was  Herb  of  Water  Germander 
(Teucrium  Scordium). 

Egremony.  This  evidently  muft  be  Agrimony.  Agrimonia 
Eupatoria.  Flower  yellow.  Perennial.  Herb  ufed  in 
gargles,  alfo  as  tea.    Celebrated  as  a  vermifuge. 

Enul-Campane.  Inula  Helenium.  After  Officinalis  Ele- 
campane. Flower  Yellow.  Perennial.  Moift  paftures. 
Root  aromatic,  flightly  bitter,  tonic,  diaphoretic,  fto- 
machic.  A  decodlion  of  the  root  ufed  as  an  application 
in  feveral  cutaneous  difeafes,  efpecially  thofe  attended 
with  a  troublefome  itching. 

Fair  Water.  The  Oxford  Englifh  Dictionary,  edited  by 
Dr.  J.  A.  H.  Murray,  defines  fair  water  as  "clean, 
pure." 

Ffilipendula.  Spiraea  Filipendula.  Flower  white,  tipped 
with  pink.  July.  Perennial.  Herb  aftringent,  and  diu- 
retic. Roots  dried  and  powdered  ufed  for  bread  in 
famine.    Tonic. 

Flowers  of  Tussica.  Can  this  be  Coltsfoot?  PTuffilago 
Farfara.    Ufed  ft  ill  as  an  expedlorant  in  coughs. 

Fumetory.  Fumitory-Corydalis.  Capnoides.  Flower  yel- 
low. Very  opening,  refreftiing,  ufed  in  cutaneous  difeafes. 

Gallbanum,  plaizfters  of  A  plaifter  made  of  Gum  Gal- 
banum,  Lead  Plaifter, -Turpentine,  and  Frankincenfe, 
nearly  but  not  quite  obfolete.  Still  ufed  in  fome  country 
diftridts.  The  formula  was  publiftied  in  the  London 
Pharmacopeia  of  185 1. 

Gwacombewood.  Guaiacum  Officinale.  Lignum  vitae  tree. 
Wood  refinous,  hot,  aromatic,  diaphoretic,  diuretic.  Has 
been  ufed  in  dropfy  and  gout.  Is  ftill  ufed  in  the  Com- 
pound Deco6lion  of  Sarfaparilla. 

IsoPE  Water.     Hyflbp  Water. 

204 


Lapis  Calaminary.  Lapis  Calaminaris.  Calamine.  A 
native  impure  carbonate  of  zinc.  Largely  ufed  in  lotions 
for  all  fkin  difeafes.  Nearly  all  the  old  cooling  lotions 
for  the  face  contained  this  ingredient,  generally  with 
rofe  water  and  glycerine. 

LiETHERiEGiE  OF  GoLD.  A  name  for  Protoxide  of  Lead. 
Litharze,  the  basis  of  lead  plaifter. 

Mellilot.  Melilotus  Officinalis.  Yellow  Melilot.  Herb 
pe6toral,  difcuffive,  caufes  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the 
Schabziger  or  fcraped  cheefe  of  Germany.  Decoction 
emolient.  Still  ufed  in  country  places  in  plaifters,  but 
dying  out. 

Methridate.  Mithridate  or  Damocrates  Confe6bion.  An 
example  of  Poly-Pharmacy,  it  contained  between  40 
and  50  ingredients,  and  was  fuppofed  to  contain  the 
antidote  to  every  known  poifon.  The  formula  was  in- 
cluded in  the  London  Pharmacopeia  of  1746. 

MiROBALENCE.  Myrobalanus  belerica.  Fruit  dried  and  ufed 
as  an  aftringent.  Ufed  in  India,  but  not  much  in  this 
country,  except  as  a  fubftitute  for  Galls  in  ink  manu- 
fadlure. 

MusKADiNE.  Mufcardine.  A  fungus  which  grows  on  filk 
worms,  or  Mufcadine,  which  was  a  rich  fpiced  wine. 

Oyle  of  Benn.  Oil  of  Ben.  An  oil  obtained  from  the  feeds 
of  Moringa  Aptera  (Egypt  and  Eaft  India),  ufed  in 
perfumery  and  by  watchmakers,  as  it  does  not  readily 
freeze. 

PuRSLAWE  Water.  Probably  Purflane.  Portulaca  Oleracea. 
Ufed  as  a  potherb,  cooling,  ufeful  in  fcurvy,  and  bilious 
diforders. 

Red  Sanders.  Red  Sandal  Wood.  Pterocarpus  Santalinus. 
Refinous,  odoriferous,  auftere,  aftringent,  tonic,  ufed  as 
a  red  colouring  ingredient  in  fpirituous  tinctures. 

Sanicle.  Sanicula  Europaea.  Wood  Sanicle.  Flowers 
white.  May — June  Perennial.  Leaves  vulnerary, 
cleanfing. 

ScoRDiuMWOOD.     Scordium  is  the  Teucrium  Scordium,  or 
Water  Germander.     Flowers  pale   purple.    Perennial, 
Found  in  wet  meadows,  rare. 
205 


Seynac.  Probably  meant  for  Senna.  Leaves  a  very  wel- 
known  purgative. 

Sneezing  Powder  Root.  This  is  either  Achillea  Ageratum, 
Sweet  Maudlin,  or  Ptarmica  Vulgaris.  Achillea  Ptarmica 
Sneezewort. 

Spermint.  Mentha  Viridis.  Spearmint.  The  ordinary 
garden  mint.   The  oil  ufed  in  medicine. 

Spirits  Diambra.  Spirits  of  Diambar.  The  name  of  a 
ftomachic  and  cordial,  which  confifted  of  Amber,  Mufk, 
various  aromatics,  and  other  ingredients. 

Storax.  Styrax  Officinale.  A  fragrant  refmous  balfam  ob- 
tained from  the  tree  by  inciiion.  A  clofe  relative  of 
Gum  Benzoin,  and  is  with  it  an  ingredient  of  Friar's 
Balfam. 

ToRMENTiL.  Potentilla  Tormentilla.  Sept-foil.  Root  very 
aftringent,  febrifuge,  and  not  ftimulant.  Recommended 
in  fome  cafes  of  diarrhoea. 


206 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

A  LIST  OF  HERBALS 

The  Grete  Herball,  which  giveth  parfyt  knowledge  and 
underftanding  of  all  manner  of  herbes,  and  their  gracyous 
vertues.  Lond,,  1516.  FoL  Lowndes  gives  the  follow- 
ing dates:  Printed  by  Peter  Treveris,  1525,  1526,  1529; 
Laurens  Andrewe,  1527;  Thomas  Gybfon,  1539;  John 
Kynge,  1561. 

Banckes  (Richarde). 

Here  begynnyth  a  newe  Mater  ye  which  fheweth  .  .  . 
ye  vertues  and  Properties  of  Herbes.  .  .  .  Lodo  by  me 
Richarde  Banckes,  1526.   4to. 

Braunschweig  (Hieronymus). 

The  Vertuofe  boke  of  Diftyllacyon  of  the  waters  of 
all  maner  of  Herbes,  etc  ,  etc.  .  .  .  now  newly  Tranf- 
late  out  of  Duyche  into  Englysfhe.  B.L.  Lend. 
1527.   Fol. 

Macer  (Armilius)  pfeud.  (/./?.,  Odo  a  Phyfician). 

Macers  Herbal  prad:yfyd  by  Dodlor  Lynacro.  Tranf- 
lated  out  of  laten  into  Englysfhe,  etc.  R.  Wyer.  Lond. 
(1530?).   8vo. 

Macer  (A.). 

A  Newe  Herball  of  Macer.  .  .  .  No  pagination. 
(Lond.,  1535  ?).    8vo. 

A  boke  of  the  Properties  of  Herbes.  ,  .  .  Lond. 
(printed)  by  me  Rob.  Redman,  (1530  ?).    8vo. 

Other  editions  printed  by  Rich.  Kele.  i6mo.  (No 
date);  Wyllyam  Myddylton,  1546;  T.  Petyt,  1541. 
8vo. 

207 


Turner  (William). 

The  names  of  herbes  in  Greke,  Latin,  Englifhe, 
Duche,  &  Frenche,  wyth  the  commune  names  that 
Herbalies  and  Apotecaries  ufe.  B.L.  J.  Day  &  W.  Seres. 
Lond.  (1548).   8vo. 

ASCHAM  (A.). 

A  little  Herball.  .  .  .  Lond.,  1550.    i2mo. 

Turner  (W.). 

A  Newe  Herball.  .  .  .  Part  L  Lond.,  1551.  Fol. 
PartIL  Collen,  1562.  PartllL  Collen,  1568.  (With 
the  third  part  was  iffued  a  revifed  edition  of  Parts  I 
and  II). 

Carey  (Walter). 

A  boke  of  the  properties  of  Herbes,  called  an  herball 
whereunto  is  added  the  time  yt  herbes  .  .  .  fhould  be 
gathered,  etc.,  etc.  B.L.  W.  Copland  for  J.  Wyght. 
Lond.  (1552  ?).   8vo. 

BULLEYNE  (W.). 

TheBookoffimples.  .  .  .  Lond.,  1562.  Fol.  (This 
forms  the  firft  part  of  his  "Bulwarke  of  defece"). 

Maplet  (J.). 

A  Greene  Foreft,  or  a  Naturall  Hiflorie,  Wherein 
may  be  feene  .  .  .  the  moft  fufFeraigne  vertues,  etc. 
Lond.,  1567.    8vo. 

MoNARDES  (Nicolas). 

Joyfiill  Newes  out  of  the  newe  founde  worlde,  where- 
in is  declared  the  rare  and  finguler  vertues  of  diverfe  .  .  . 
Herbes,  Trees,  Oyles,  Plantes,  .  .  .  with  their  applica- 
tions as  well  for  Phificke  as  Chirurgerie.  .  .  .  Englifhed 
by  J.  Frampton.    Lond.,  1577.   4to. 

Lyte  (H.). 

A  niewe  Herball.  .  .  .  Lond.  (Antwerp  printed), 
1578.   Fol. 

Other  editions  in  1586,  1595,  161 9. 

Langham  (W.). 

Garden  of  Health.    Lond.,  1579.   4^°* 
2nd  edit.    1633.   4to. 

208 


Lemnius  (Levinus). 

An  Herbal  for  the  Bible  containing  a  plaine  .  .  . 
expofition  of  fuch  Similitudes,  ...  as  are  .  .  .  taken 
from  Herbs,  plants  .  .  .  fimples.  Drawen  into  Englich 
by  T.  Newton.    E.  Bollifant.    Lond.,  1587.    8vo. 

Gerarde  (John). 

The  Herball  or  Generall  Hiftorie  of  Plantes.  J.  Nor- 
ton.   Lond.,  1597.    ^°^- 

2nd  edit.,  enlarged  and  amended  by  Thomas  Johnfon. 
1633  and  1636. 

A  Boke  of  the  Propertyes  of  Herbes,  the  which  is 
called  an  Herbal.  Imp.  at  London  by  me,  Johan  Scot, 
dwellynge  in  Faufter  Lane.    (No  date). 

DoDVENS  (Rimbert). 

Rams  little  Dodeon.  A  briefe  epitome  of  the  new 
Herball  .  .  .  Collefted  out  of  the  .  .  .  Newe  Herball  .  .  . 
firft  fet  forth  in  the  Dutch  .  .  .  tranflated  by  H.  Lyte 
.  .  .  now  colledled  and  abridged  by  W.  Ram.  S.  Staf- 
ford.   Lond.,  1606.   4to. 

Parkinson  (John). 

Paradifi  in  Sole,  Paradifus  terreftris.  Or  a  Garden  of 
.  .  .  flowers;  .  .  .  with  a  Kitchen  garden  and  an 
Orchard  .  .  .  and  their  ufes  and  vertues,  etc.  H.  Lownes 
&  R.  Young.    Lond.,  1629.   Fol. 

CuLPEPER  (Nicholas). 

The  Englifh  Phyfician,  or  an  aftrologo-phyfical  dif- 
courfe  on  the  vulgar  herbs  of  the  nation,  ,  .  .  Lond., 
1652.    i2mo. 

Other  editions,  1653,  1661,  1695,  1714,  1725,  1733, 
1784,  1792,  etc. 

SoWERBY  (Leonard). 

The  Ladies  Difpenfatory ;  containing  the  natures, 
vertues,  and  qualities  of  all  herbs  and  fimples  ufeful  in 
phyfick,  reduced  into  a  methodicall  order,  etc.  Lond,, 
1652.    8vo. 

Coles  (William). 

Art  of  fimpling:  an  introdudtion  to  the  knowledge 
and  gathering  of  Plants.  .  .  .    Lond.,  1656.    i2mo. 
209  P 


Renodaens  (J.  de). 

A  medicinal  Difpenfatory  .  .  .  difcovering  the  Natures, 
Properties,  and  Vertues  of  Vegetables,  Minerals,  and 
Animals.    Lond.,  1657.    ^^^' 
Tranflated  by  R.  Tomlinfon. 

Coles  (William). 

Adam  in  Eden,  or  Natures  paradife.  The  hiftory  of 
plants,  fruits,  herbs,  and  flowers  .  .  .  together  with 
obfervations  on  the  feafons  of  planting,  and  gathering  of 
our  Englifh  fimples,  etc.   Lond.,  1657.    ^^^* 

LOVELL  (Robt.). 

Enchiridion  Botanicum,  or  a  Complete  Herbal.  Ox- 
ford, 1659.    8vo.    2  vols. 

The  Nature  of  the  drinke  Kauhi  or  Coffee,  and  the 
berry  of  which  it  is  made,  defcribed  by  an  Arabian 
phifitian.    Oxford,  1659.    8vo. 

D.  (N). 

The  Vertues  of  Coffee.  Set  forth  in  the  works  of  the 
Lord  Bacon,  his  Natural  Hift.  Mr.  Parkinfon  his  Herbal, 
etc.    Lond.,  1663.   4to. 

Turner  (Robert). 

Botanologia,  the  Britifh  phyfician ;  or  the  nature  and 
vertues  of  Englifh  plants,  etc.    Lond.,  1664.    8vo. 
2nd  edit.    1687. 

LovELL  (Robert). 

Pambotanologia  .  .  .  Or,  A  Com  pleat  Herball. 
2nd  edit.,  with  many  additions.    Oxford.    Printed  by 
W.  H.  for  Ric.  Davis,  1665.   8vo. 

Blagrave  (Jofeph). 

Supplement   or   enlargement    of    Nich.    Culpeper's 
Englifh  Phyfician,  etc.    Lond.,  1666.    8vo. 
2nd  edit.    1674. 

Hughes  (William). 

The  American  phyfician,  or  a  treatife  of  the  roots, 
plants,  trees,  fhrubs,  etc.,  growing  in  the  Englifh  planta- 
tions in  America.  .  .  .    Lond.,  1672.    i2mo. 

Archer  (J.). 

A  Compendious  Herbal.    Lond.,  1673.    8vo. 
(Forming  Part  II  of  "  Every  Man  his  own  Do6lor  "). 
210 


Peachie  (J.). 

Some  obfervations  made  upon  the  RootCaflummuniar, 
called  otherwife  Ryfagone.    Lond.,  1679.    4to. 
2nd  edit.    1693. 

Dale  (S.). 

Pharmacologia.    Lond.,  1693.    i2vo.    i2mo. 

Supplement.    1705. 

3rd  edit,  (greatly  enlarged  and  improved).   1737.  4to. 

Westmacott  (William). 

Theobotanologia.  A  Scripture  Herbal.  Lend.,  1694. 
i2mo. 

Pechey  (J.). 

The  Compleat  Herbal   of  phyfical  plants.    Lond., 

1694.  8vo. 

MuLLiNS  (James). 

Some  obfervations  made  upon  the  Cylonian  Plant. 
Shewing  its  .  .  ,  vertues  againft  Deafnefs,  etc.    Lond., 

1695.  4to. 

Petiver  (J.). 

Hortus  ficcus  pharmaceuticus.   Lond.  (1700  ?).   Fol. 

TouRNEFORT  (Jofeph  Pitton  de). 

Materia  Medica,  or  a  defcription  of  fimple  medicines 
generally  ufed  in  phyfick.   Lond.,  1708.    8vo. 
3rd  edit.    1716. 

PoMET  (Pierre). 

Hiftory  of  Drugs.    Lond.,  17 12.   4to. 

Petiver  (James).   F.R.S. 

A  Catalogue  of  Mr.  Ray's  Englifh  Herbal.  Illuftrated 
with  figures,  1713.   Fol.;  and  continued  in  1715. 

Martyn  (J.). 

The  Compleat  Herbal  of  Tournefort,  with  large 
additions  from  Ray,  Gerrard,  etc.  Tranflated  by 
J.  Martyn.    Lond.,  1716-1730.    4to. 

Bradeley  (Richard). 

The  Virtue  and  ufe  of  Coffee  with  regard  to  the 
Plague,  and  other  enfedtious  Diflempers,  etc.  Lond., 
1 721.    8vo. 

211 


Miller  (Jofeph). 

Botanicum  officinale;  or  a  compendious  Herbal. 
Lond.,  1722.    8vo. 

Blair  (P.). 

Pharmaco-botanologia.   Lond.,  1723- 1728.   410. 

Knowles  (G.). 

Materia  Medica  botanica.    Lond.,  1723.   410. 

Thomson  (G.). 

Short  method  of  difcovering  the  virtues  of  plants. 
Lond.,  1734.    8vo. 
Blackwell  (Elizabeth)  Mrs. 

A  Curious  herbal,  containing  500  cuts  of  the  moft 
ufeful  plants,  which  are  now  ufed  in  the  practice  of 
phyfick,  etc.    Lond.,  1 737-1 739.    Fol.  2  vols. 

Another  edit,  edited  by  C.  J.  Trew,  1 750-1 773,  en- 
titled "  Herbarium  Blackwellianum." 

Short  (Thomas). 

Medicina  britannica,  or  a  treatife  on  fuch  phyfical 
plants  as  are  generally  to  be  found  in  the  fields  or 
gardens  of  Great  Britain.    Lond.,  1747.    8vo. 

Hill  (John). 

Hiftory  of  the  Materia  Medica.    Lond.,  1751.   4to. 

Newton  (James). 

A  Compleat  Herbal.    Lond.,  1752.    8vo. 

2nd  edit.    1 798 ;  with  portrait  of  author. 
Hill  (John). 

Ufeful  Family  Herbal.   Lond.,  1755.    8vo. 

Curtis  (W.). 

Affiftant  plates  to  the  Materia  Medica.  Lond.,  1756. 
8vo. 

Sheldrake  (T.). 

Botanicum  Medicinale;  an  Herbal  of  medicinal 
Plants  on  the  College  of  Phyfician's  Lift.  Lond.  (1759). 
Fol. 

Hill  (John). 

Centaury,  the  great  ftomachic.   Lond.,  1765.   8vo. 
Hill  (John). 

Virtues  of  Britifh  Herbs,  with  the  hiftory,  defcription, 
and  figures,  etc.   4th  edit.    Lond.,  1 771.   8vo. 
2J2 


Lettsom  (John  Coakley). 

The  Natural  hiftory  of  the  Tea-tree,  with  obferva- 
tions  on  the  medical  qualities  of  Tea,  and  eiFe6ls  of  Tea 
drinking.    Lond.,  1772.   4to. 

2nd  edit.    1799. 

WiLMER  (B.). 

Obfervations  on  the  Poifonous  vegetables  which  are 
either  Indigenous  in  Great  Britain  or  cultivated  for 
ornament.   Lond.,  1781.    8vo. 

Curtis  (William). 

A  Catalogue  of  the  Britifh  Medicinal,  culinary,  and 
agricultural  plants,  cultivated  in  the  London  Botanical 
Garden.   Lond.,  1783.    8vo. 

Parmentier  (A.  A.). 

Obfervations  on  fuch  nutritive  vegetables  as  may  be 
fubftituted  in  the  place  of  ordinary  foods  in  times  of 
fcarcity.   Lond.,  1783.    8vo. 

Burrows  (J.).   M.D. 

A  differtation  on  the  Nature  and  EfFedls  of  a  Vege- 
table Remedy.   4th  ed.    Lond.,  1784. 

MosELEY  (Benjamin). 

A  treatife  concerning  the  properties  and  effe6l  of 
Coffee.    Lond.,  1785.    8vo. 

2nd  ed.   1785.    3rd  ed.   1785.    5th  ed.    1792. 
FoNTANA  (Felix). 

Treatife  on  the  Venom  of  the  Viper ;  on  the  American 
poifons;  and  on  the  Cherry  Laurel,  and  fome  other 
vegetable  poifons.  Tranflated  by  Jofeph  Skinner.  2  vols. 
Lond.,  1787.    8vo. 

Meyrick  (W.). 

New  Family  Herbal.   Birmingham,  1789.    8vo. 

Another  ed.    1790. 

The  ufeful  Family  Herbal ;  or  an  account  of  all  thofe 
Englifh  plants  which  are  remarkable  for  their  virtues, 
and  of  the  Drugs  which  are  produced  by  vegetables  of 
other  countries.    Lond.,  1790.    8vo. 

Baylis  (E.). 

A  New  and  Compleat  body  of  practical  botanic  phyfic 
from  the  medicinal  plants  of  the  Vegetable  kingdom, 
fele6i:ed  from  fome  of  the  beft  authors.  Lond.,  1 791 .  410. 
213 


Roxburgh  (William). 

A  botanical  defcription  of  a  new  fpecies  of  Swietenia, 
with  experiments  and  obfervations  on  the  bark  thereof. 
(Lond,  1793.)  4to. 

Barham  (Henry). 

Hortus  Americanus:  containing  an  account  of  the 
trees,  fhrubs,  and  other  vegetable  produftions  of  South 
America  .  .  ,  their  ufes  in  medicine,  etc.  Kingfton, 
Jamaica,  1794.    8vo. 

Lambert  (Aylmer  Bourke). 

A  defcription  of  the  genus  Cinchona,  comprehending 
the  various  fpecies  of  Vegetables  from  which  the  Peru- 
vian and  other  barks  of  a  fimilar  quality  are  taken. 
Lond.,  1797.    4to. 

A  New  Medicinal,  Economical,  and  Domeftic  Herbal. 
Lond.,  1809.    Svo. 

Stokes  (J.). 

Botanical  Materia  Medica.  4  vols.  Lond.,  18 12.  Svo. 


BOOKS  OF  COOKERY 

Apicius  (Caelius). 

De  Arte  Coquinaria  Mediol.  1498.  8vo.  Reprinted 
Venet,  1503.    8vo.    Bafil,  1541.  4V0. 

Pynson  (Richard). 

This  is  the  Boke  of  Cokery.    Lond.,  1500.   4V0. 

A  proper  new  Booke  of  Cookerie,  Declaring  what 
manner  of  meates  be  beft  in  feafon  for  al  times  of  the 
yeere  and  how  thei  ought  to  be  drefled.  With  a  new 
addition,  very  neceffary  for  all  them  that  delight  in 
Cookery.^    Lond.,  1575.   Svo. 

Another  edit.    1576. 

Cervio  (Vincenzo). 

II  Trinciante  di  M.  V.  C.  ampliato  et  ridotto  a  per- 
fettione  dal  Cavallier  R.  Tuforitto  da  Narni.  Venetia, 
1 58 1.    4V0. 

Other  edits.    1593,1604,1622,1643. 

'  W.  How  for  A.  Veale. 
214 


Dawson  (Thomas)  printer. 

The  Good  Hufwifes  Jewel  and  rare  conceits  in 
Cookery.    Lond.,  1585. 

Other  edits.    1596,  1597,  1610. 

Partridge  (John). 

Treafury  of  Commodious  Conceits  and  Hidden  Secrets, 
Commonly  called  The  Good  Hufwives  Clofet  of  pro- 
vifion  for  the  health  of  her  houfehold.  Now  the  fourth 
time  corre6i:ed  and  inlarged,  etc.  B.L.  Richarde  Jhones. 
Lond.,  1584.   Bvo. 

Another  edit.    1586. 

The  Good  Hufwives  Handmayde ;  contayning  many 
principall  pointes  of  Cookerie,  etc.    Lond.,  1588.    8vo. 

Allde  or  Aldee  (Edward). 

The  Good  Hufewives  Treafurie,  being  a  verie  necef- 
farie  booke,  inftruding  to  the  drefling  of  meates.  Lond., 
1588.    8vo. 

Allde  (Edward). 

A  book  of  Cookerie  gathered  by  A.  W.,  and  now 
newHe  enlarged  with  the  ferving  in  of  the  table.  With 
the  proper  Snaces  to  each  of  them  convenient.  Lond., 
1 59 1.    8vo. 

Butte  (Henry). 

Dyets  Dry  Dinner.    Lond.,  1599.    i2mo. 

A  Clofet  for  ladies  and  Gentlewomen,  or  the  art  of 
preferving,  conferving,  and  candying,  with  the  manner 
of  howe  to  make  divers  kinds  of  fyrups  and  all  kind  of 
banquetting  ftuiFes.   Lond.,  1608.    i2vo. 

Other  editions.    1632,  1636,  1647,  165 1,  1654,  1656. 

Markham  (Gervafe), 

Country  Contentments,  in  two  bookes :  the  firft  con- 
taining the  whole  art  of  riding  great  Horfes  in  very 
fhort  time  .  .  .  etc.  The  fecond  intituled  The  Englifh 
Hufwife,  containing  the  inward  and  outward  vertues 
which  ought  to  be  in  a  compleate  Woman,  etc.  2nd  pt. 
Lond.,  16 1 5,   4to. 

Murrell  Qohn). 

A  delightful  daily  exercife  for  Ladies  and  Gentlemen, 
whereby  is  fet  forth  the  fecrete  mifteries  of  the  prefent 
215 


prefervings  in  GlafTes  and  other  confri6!:ionaries  as  mak- 
ing the  Breads,  Paftes,  Preferves.  .  .  .  Whereto  is  added 
a  Booke  of  Cookery.  2nd  pt.  Printed  for  T.  Devve. 
Lond.,  1 62 1.    i2mo. 

MuRRELL  (John). 

Cookerie  and  Manner  of  Making  Kickfhawes,  etc. 
1630. 

Murrell's  two  books  of  Cookerie  and  Carving.  The 
fifth  time  printed  with  new  editions.  B.L.  3rd  pt. 
(With  a  fecond  title  page  reading:  A  New  Booke  of 
Cookerie,  Wherein  is  fet  forth  a  moft  perfe6t  direction 
to  furnifti  an  extraordinary  or  ordinary  feaft,  either 
in  Summer  or  Winter,  etc.  Printed  by  M.  F.  for  J.  Mar- 
riot.    Lond.,  1638.    i2mo. 

Another  edit.,  5th.    1641. 

ScAPPi  (B.) 

M.  B.  Scappi  deir  Arte  del  Cucinare,  etc.    1643. 

Gentlewoman. 

The  Gentlewoman's  Cabinet  unlocked;  wherein  is 
contained  many  excellent  receipts  for  neat  dreffing  of 
divers  forts  of  meats.  .  .  .  Alfo  diredtions  for  the  beft 
way  of  making  Pancakes,  etc.    B.L.    Lond.,  1650. 

8th  impreflion.    B.L.    1673.    i2mo. 

7th         „  With  new  editions.   B.L.    1675. 

The  Schoolmafter,  or  Teacher  of  Table  Philofophy. 
1652. 

Grey  (Elizabeth),  Countefs  of  Kent. 

A  Choice  Manuall,  or  rare  and  feleft  fecrets  in  Phy- 
fick  and  Chyrwgery.  Colledted  by  the  Countefs  of  Kent, 
...  As  alfo  moft  exquifite  waies  of  preferving,  con- 
ferving,  candying,  etc.  (Part  2  has  a  diftindl  title-page 
as  follows :  A  true  Gentlewoman's  De-light :  wherein  is 
contained  all  manner  of  Cookery,  etc.  Lond.,  1 653.  8vo. 

Many  editions  of  this  work. 

Nature  unembowelled,  or  1,720  Receipts. 

MouFET  (Thomas). 

Health's  improvement,  or,  rules  comprizing  and  dif- 
covering  the  nature,  method,  and  manner  of  preparing 
all  forts  of  food  ufed  in  this  nation.  .   .  .  Corrected 
and  enlarged  by  C.  Bennet.   Lond.,  1655.    4^0* 
216 


Another  edition,  to  which  is  prefixed  a  fhort  view  of 
the  author's  life.  ...  by  Mr.  Oldys,  and   an  intro- 
du<5lion  by  R.  James.    Lond.,  1745. 
M.  (W.). 

The  Queen's  Clofet  opened :  incomparable  fecret  in 
Phyfick,  Chirurgery,  Preferving,  Candying,  and  Cook- 
ery, as  they  were  prefented  to  the  Queen  .  .  .  etc. 
Lond.,  1655. 

Other  editions,  1662, 1668,  1671,  1674,  1679,  ^7^^- 

The  editions  vary  in  title-pages,  as :  A  Queen's  De- 
light, or  the  Art  of  Preferving,  etc.;  The  Compleat 
Cook,  etc. 

May  (Robert). 

The  Accompliftit  Cook,  or  the  Art  and  Myftery  of 
Cookery,  etc.  (With  life  of  the  author  by  W.  W.) 
Lond.,  1660.    8vo. 

Cook. 

The  Compleat  Cook,  etc.   Pp.  123.    J.  Winter  for 
N.  Brooke.    Lond.,  1668.    i2mo. 
Another  edit.,  1671. 

DiGBY  (Sir  K.). 

Choice  and  experimented  receipts  in  Phyfick  and 
Chirurgery,  as  alfo  cordial  and  diftilled  waters,  and 
fpirits,  perfumes,  and  other  curiofities.  Tranflated  .  .  . 
by  G.  H(artman).    Lond.,  1668.    8vo. 

2nd  edit.,  1675. 

Rabisha  (WiUiam). 

The  whole  Body  of  Cookery  diffefted,  taught  and 
fully  manifefted.  .  .  According  to  the  beft  traditions  of 
the  Englifh,  French,  Italian,  Dutch,  etc.  or  a  fympathy 
of  all  the  varieties  in  natural  compounds  in  that  myftery 
.  .  .  Second  edit.,  whereunto  is  annexed  a  fecond  part 
of  rare  receipt  of  Cookery,  and  with  a  book  of  preferv- 
ing, etc.    Lond.,  1675.    8vo. 

The  Queen  Like  Clofet,  or  Rich  Cabinet.    1675. 

DiGBY  (Sir  Kenelm). 

The  Clofet  of  .  .  .  Sir  Kenelm  Digbie,  Kt.  opened: 
whereby  is  difcovered  feveral  ways  for  making  of  Me- 
theglin,  Sider,  Cherry-wine,  etc.  Together  with  .  .  . 
diredlions  for  Cookery,  etc.  Pp.  312.  Lond.,  1677. 
8vo. 

217 


3rd  edit.,  corredted  (printed)  by  E.  C.  for  H.  Brome. 
1669. 

The  Ladies  Cabinet  enlarged  concerning  preferving, 
Phyfic,  and  of  Cookery.    Lond.,  1682.    8vo. 

Rose  (Giles). 

A  perfeft  fchool  of  Inftru6lions  for  the  Officers  of 
the  Mouth.  Shewing  the  whole  art  of  a  Mafter  of  the 
Houfehold,  a  Mafter  Carver,  a  Mafter  Butler  ...  A 
Mafter  Cook  .  .  .  with  pictures  .  .  .  difplaying  the 
whole  arts.    Lond.,  1682.    i2mo. 

Tryon,  T. 

A  treatife  of  Cleannefs  in  Meats,  and  Drinks,  of  the 
preparation  of  food  .  .  .  and  the  benefit  of  clean  fweet 
beds  .  .  .  Alfo  of  the  generation  of  bugs,  and  their 
cure.  To  which  is  added  A  Short  difcourfe  of  the  pain 
in  the  teeth,  etc.    Lond.,  1682.   4to. 

Hartman  (George). 

The  true  preferver  and  reftorer  of  health;  being  a 
choice  colle6lion  .  of  .  .  .  remedies  for  all  diftempers 
.  .  .  together  with  .  .  .  dire6tions  for  Cookery,  etc. 
2nd  pt.    Lond.,  1682.    8vo. 

2nd  edit.,  with  additions,  3rd  pt.  Lond.,  1684-82. 
l2mo.  (Pt.  2  has  a  feparate  title  page,  "Excellent  Di- 
redtions  for  Cookery.") 

The  Young  Cook's  monitor,  by  M.  H.   Lond.,  1683. 

Another  edition.    1690. 

Hannah  Wooley's  Rare  Receipts.    1 684. 

The  Accomplifht  Ladies  Delight.    1686. 

The  Kitchen  Phyfician.    1688. 

The  Cupboard  Door  opened.    1689. 

Salmon  (William),  M.D. 

The  Family-Diftionary;  or  Houfehold  Companion; 
Containing  in  an  alphabetical  method:  L  Directions 
for  Cookery.  U.  Making  all  forts  of  paftry-ware.  .  . 
HL  Making  of  conferves.  .  .  IV.  The  making  all 
kinds  of  potable  liquors.  V.  The  making  of  all  forts 
of  rare  perfumes  .  .  .  etc.  Lond.,  1696.  8vo. 
4th  edit.    17 10. 

218 


Lemery  (Louis). 

Traite  des  aliments,  ou  Ton  trouve  par  ordre,  etc., 
etc.    Paris,  1702.    l2mo. 
2nd  edit.    1705. 

CUISINIER. 

Le  Cuifinier  familier,  tant  pour  les  grandes  maifons 
&  Families  Bourgeoifes  que  pour  les  gens  de  la  Cam- 
pagne.    Bruxelles,  1705.    i2mo. 

HoRATius  Flaceus  (Quintus). 

The  Art  of  Cookery:  in  imitation  of  Horace's  Art 
of  Poetry,  with  fome  letters  to  Dr.  Lifter  and  others, 
etc.,  etc.    Lond.,  (1709).    8vo. 

Lamb  (Patrick),  Chef  to  her  Majefty. 

Royal  Cookery,  or  the  Complete  Court  Cook,  con- 
taining the  choiceft  receipt  in  all  the  particular  branches 
of  cookery  now  in  ufe  in  the  Queen's  Palaces.  ,  .  To 
which  are  added  bills  of  fare,  etc,    Lond.,  17 10. 

2nd  edit.    1716. 

3rd  edit.    1726. 

Howard  (Henry),  Cook. 

England's  Neweft  way  in  all  forts  of  Cookery,  Paftry, 
and  all  pickles  fit  to  be  ufed;  with  copperplates.  Lond., 
17 10.    8vo. 

Another  edition.    1726. 

The  Whole  Duty  of  a  Woman:  or  guide  to  the 
female  fex:  alfo  choice  receipts  in  Phyfick  and  Chy- 
rurgery :  with  the  whole  art  of  Cookery.  5th  edit. 
1712. 

Other  editions  pubHfhed  1701,  1707,  1739,  1792, 
1793- 

Hall  (T.),  Cook. 

The  Queens  Royal  Cookery:  or  expert  and  ready 
way  for  the  dreffing  of  all  forts  of  flefh.  .  .   With  the 
Art  of  preferving  and  candying  of  fruit  and  flowers, 
Lond.,  171 3. 
3rd  edit.    1 7 19. 
5th  edit.    (1730.) 

219 


A  Colledtion  of  above  three  hundred   Receipts  in 
Cookery,  Phyfick,  and  Surgery,  etc.    Lond.,  171 4.    8vo. 
2nd  edit.    17 19. 
5th  edit.    1734. 

Eales  (Mary). 

Mrs.  M.  E's  receipts  (for  confedlionery,  etc).  Lond., 
1718.   8vo. 

The  Accomplifh'd  Ladys  Delight  in  preferving,  phy- 
lick,  beautifying,  Cookery,  and  gardening.  .  .  loth  edit., 
enlarged.   D.  Pratt,  Lond.,  17 19. 

NoTT  (John),  Cook. 

The  Cook's  and  Confectioner's  Dictionary :  or  the 
Accomplifh'd  Houfewifes  Companion  .  .  .  (compiled) 
revifed,  and  recommended  ...  by  J.  N.  Lond.,  1723. 
Svo. 

Smith  (Robert). 

Court  Cookery:  or  the  compleat  Englifh  Cook,  con- 
taining the  .  .  .  neweft  receipt,  etc.  2nd  pt.  Lond., 
1723.    Svo. 

S-{E.). 

The  Compleat  Houfevv^ife:  or  Accomplifhed  Gentle- 
woman's Companion :  being  a  collection  of  upw^ards  of 
Five  hundred  of  the  moft  approved  Receipts  in  Cookery 
...  to  which  is  added  a  collection  of  above  Two  hun- 
dred Family  receipts  of  medicines.  By  E.  S — .  (/.^., 
E.  Smith).   3rd  edit.,  improved.    Lond.,  1729. 

Other  editions,  1734,  1741,  1742. 

Carter  (Charles),  Cook. 

The  Complete  Practical  Cook;  or  a  new  fyftem  of 
the  whole  art  and  myftery  of  Cookery  .  .  .  Adorned 
with  fixty  curious  copper  plates,  etc.   Lond.,  1730. 

Carter  (Charles). 

The  Complete  City  and  Country  Cook ;  or  accom- 
plifh'd Houfewife.  .  .  .  lUuflrated  with  forty-nine  large 
copper  plates.   Lond.,  1732.    Svo. 

La  Chapelle  (Vincent). 

The  Modern  Cook  (with  plates).   2  vols.    1733. 
„  „      3  vols.,  2nd  edit.    1 736. 

„  „      3rd  edit.    1744. 

220 


MiDDLETON  (John),  Cook. 

Five  hundred  new  receipts  in  Cookery;  revifed  by- 
Henry  Howard.    Lond.,  1734.    8vo. 

The  Young  Lady's  Companion  in  Cookery,  and 
Paftry,  preferving,  pickling,  candying,  etc.    Lond.,  1734. 

Bailey  (Nathan). 

Di6lionarum  domefticum,  being  a  compleat  Houfe- 
hold  Dictionary,  for  the  ufe  of  both  city  and  Country. 
Lond.,  1736.    8vo. 

Harrison  (Sarah). 

The  Houfekeeper's  Pocket  Book,  and  compleat  family 
cook ;  containing  above  feven  hundred  curious  .  .  . 
receipts  .  .  .  etc.  etc.    2nd  edit.    Lond.,  1739.    i2mo. 

7th  edit.    1760. 

8th  edit.    1764. 

9th  edit.    1777. 

Kidder  (Edward). 

E.  Kidder's  Receipts  of  Paftry  and  Cookery  for  the 
ufe  of  his  fcholars,  etc.  (with  plates).   Lond.,  (1740). 
Another  edit.  (1741). 

Atkyns  (Arabella),  pfeud. 

The  Family  Magazine,  in  two  parts.  Part  i  con- 
taining ufeful  directions  in  all  the  branches  of  houfe- 
keeping  and  Cookery  .  .  .    Lond.,  1741.    8vo. 

Adam. 

Adam's  Luxury  and  Eve's  Cookery,  or  the  Kitchin 
Garden  difplay'd,  etc.    Lond.,  1744.    i2mo. 

Lady. 

The  art  of  Cookery  made  plain  and  Eafy,  etc.   By  a 
Lady  (Hannah  GlalTe).    1747. 
4th  edit.    1 75 1. 
5th  edit.    1755. 
7th  edit,    1760. 
9th  edit.    1765. 
New  edit.    1770. 
»  1774. 

«  1784. 

(There  are  flight  variations  in  the  titles  of  the  dif- 
ferent editions.) 

221 


MoxON  (Elizabeth). 

Englifh  Houfewifery.  Exemplified  in  above  four 
hundred  and  fifty  receipts  .  .  .  with  cuts,  etc.  Leeds, 
1749.    i2mo. 

Fisher  (Mrs.)  of  Richmond. 

The  Prudent  Houfewife ;  or  Complete  Englifh  Cook, 
for  town  and  country.    Being  the  neweft  collection  of 
.  .  .  receipts,  etc.    Lond.,  (1750  ?).    i2mo. 
Another  edit.    1788. 

Jackson  (Sarah). 

The  Director;  or  Young  Woman's  beft  companion, 
containing  above  three  hundred  receipts  in  Cookery, 
paftry,  preferving  .  .  .  phyfick  and  Surgery.  .  .  The 
whole  makes  a  complete  family  cook  and  phyfician. 
Lond.,  1754.    i2mo. 

MoxON  (Eliz.) 

Englifh  Houfewifery  Improved;  or  a  fupplement  to 
Moxon's  Cookery,  contains  upwards  of  fixty  modern 
.  .  .  receipts.  Collected  by  a  Perfon  of  Judgment. 
Leeds,  1758. 

Third  edit.    (1775). 

Coachman. 

A  treatife  on  the  ufe  and  abufe  of  the  commonly 
called  the  Stewards  Table  in  families  of  the  firfl  rank, 
etc.    Lond.,  (1758).    8vo. 

Verral  (William). 

A  Compleat  Syflem  of  Cookery.  In  which  is  fet 
forth  a  variety  of  genuine  receipts  collefted  .  .  .  under 
.  .  .  M.  de  St.  Clouet  .  .  .   Lond.,  1759.    8vo. 

Cleland  (Elizabeth). 

A  New  and  Eafy  Method  of  Cookery.  2nd  edit. 
Lond.,  1759.    8vo. 

The  Art  of  modern  Cookery  difplayed;  confifling 
of  the  mofl  approved  Methods  of  Cookery,  Paflry,  and 
Confectionery  of  the  prefent  time,  etc.  By  the  Tranf- 
lator,  a  Foreigner,  who  has  been  feveral  years  Clerk  of 
the  Kitchin  in  Noble  Families  in  this  Kingdom.  Lond., 
Davis,  1767.    8vo. 

222 


Shackleford  (Mrs.  Anne),  of  Winchefter. 

The  Modern  Art  of  Cookery  improved;  or  elegant, 
cheap  and  eafy  methods  of  preparing  moft  of  the  Difhes 
now  in  vogue ;  in  the  compofition  vi^hereof  both  health 
and  pleafure  hath  been  confulted.   Lond.,  1767.    i2mo. 

Cookery. 

Primitive  Cookery,  or  the  Kitchen  garden  difplayed : 
containing  a  colle6tion  of  receipts  for  preparing  a  great 
variety  of  cheap,  healthful,  and  palatable  difhes,  without 
either  fifh,  flefh,  or  fowl.  2nd  edit.,  with  additions. 
Lond.,  1767.    i2mo. 

Jenks  (James). 

The  Complete  Cook  ,  .  .  Containing  the  greateft 
variety  of  .  .  .  receipts  in  Cookery,  paftry,  confection- 
ery, etc.  With  an  appendix,  teaching  the  art  of  making 
wine,  etc.    Lond.,  1768.    i2mo. 

Skeat  (J.) 

Art  of  Cookery  and  Paftry  made  eafy  and  familiar 
in  upwards  of  two  hundred  different  receipts  and  bills 
of  fare  .  .  .  To  which  is  added  a  variety  of  tables  for 
forms  of  entertainment  and  an  exa6l  reprefentation  of 
the  table  of  the  Guild  feafts  of  Norwich  and  Lynn. 
Norwich,  printed  1769.  8vo. 
Another  edit.   Lond.,  1772. 

Taylor  (E.),  of  Berwick. 

The  Lady's,  Houfewife's,  and  Cookmaid's  AfHftant: 
or  the  Art  of  Cookery  explained,  etc.  Berwick  on 
Tweed,  1769.    i2mo. 

Art  of  Cookery,  adapted  to  the  meaneft  capacity. 
Berwick,  1769.    i2mo. 

Ruffald  (Elizabeth). 

The  experienced  Englifh  Houfekeeper  for  the  ufe 
and  eafe  of  ladies,  houfe  keepers,  cooks,  etc.  .  .  .  con- 
fifting  of  near  800  original  recipts  moft  of  which  never 
appeared  in  print,  etc.    Manchefter,  1769.    8vo. 

Other  editions,  1776,  1780,  1782,  1786. 

The  ProfefTed  Cook,  or  the  Modern  art  of  Cookery, 
Paftry,  and  Confectionery  made  plain  and  eafy.  Lond., 
1769.    8vo. 

Mary  Smith's  Compleat  Houfekeeper.    1772. 
223 


BORELLA  ( ). 

The  Court  and  Country  Confe6lioner,  or  the  Houfe- 
keepers  Guide,  etc.  etc.    Lond.,  1772.   8vo. 

Mason  (Mrs.  Sarah). 

The  Lady's  Affiftant,  for  regulating  and  fupplying 
her  Table,  containing  150  fele6l  Bills  of  Fare,  properly 
difpofed  for  Family  Dinners  of  five  difhes  to  two  courfes 
of  eleven  and  fifteen ;  with  upwards  of  50  Bills  of  Fare 
for  Suppers  from  five  difhes  to  19,  and  feveral  Defferts. 
Lond.,  1773.    8vo. 

Clermont  (B.) 

The  ProfefTed  Cook ;  or  the  Modern  Art  of  Cookery, 
Paftry,  etc.  made  eafy.    1776. 

The  Accompliftied  Lady's  Delight  in  Cookery;  or 
the  Complete  Servants  Maids  {Jic)  Guide.  J.  Smart, 
Wolverhampton,  (1780). 

Dalrymple  (George). 

The  Practice  of  Modern  Cookery  .  .  .  To  which  is 
added  a  Gloffary  explaining  the  terms  of  Art.  Edin- 
burgh, 1 78 1.    8vo. 

MacIver  (Mrs.) 

Cookery  and  Paftry.   4th  edit.   Lond.,  1784.    i2mo. 
The  Honours  of  the  table;  or  rules  of  behaviour 
during  meals.   With  the  whole  art  of  carving,  etc.    (By 
John  Trufler).    Lond.,  1788. 
2nd  edit.    1791. 
3rd  edit.    1805. 
4th  edit.    1805. 

Dr.  Stark's 

Dietetical  Experiments.    1788. 

Briggs  (Richard). 

The  Englifh  art  of  Cookery,  according  to  the  prefent 
pradtife,  being  a  complete  Guide  to  all  Houfekeepers, 
on  a  plan  entirely  new.    Cork,  1788. 
Lond.,  Robinfon,  1791.   8vo. 
1792. 

224 


Cole   (Mrs.   Mary),   Cook   to   the   Rt.   Hon.  the    Earl   of 
Drogheda. 

The  Lady's  Complete  Guide,  or  Cookery  and  Con- 
fedionary  in  all  their  branches.  To  which  is  added, 
The  Complete  Brewer,  alfo  the  Family  Phyfician,  etc., 
etc.    1789.    8vo. 

Confectioner. 

The  Complete  C.  or  the  whole  art  of  confe6tionary  . . . 
By  a  perfon  late  apprentice  to  iVIeflrs.  Negri  and  Witten 
of  Berkely  Square.    (F.  Nutt),  Lond.,  1789,  1790. 

Cookery. 

Ancient  C. —  from  a  MS.  in  the  Library  of  the 
Royal  Society.  (This  is  an  extrad  from  "  A  Colle6lion 
of  Ordinances  ...  for  the  government  of  the  Royal 
Houfehold"  publifhed  by  the  Society  of  Antiquaries, 
but  with  diftindt  regifter  and  pagination.")  Lond., 
1790.    4to. 

Frazer  ( — ),  Mrs. 

The  Pra6lice  of  Cookery,  Paftry,  Pickling,  Preferv- 
ing,  etc.    Edin.,  1791.    i2mo. 

Saunders  (Sarah),  Mrs. 

The  Fountain  of  Knowledge,  or  Complete  Family 
Guide  ;  containing  curious  particulars  of  the  utmoft 
fervice  to  families  in  general.    6th  edit.    Lond.,  1792. 

CoLLiNGWOOD  (Francis)  and  Wollams  (John). 

The  Univerfal  Cook,  and  City  and  Country  Houfe- 
keeper,  containing  all  the  various  branches  of  Cookery, 
etc.,  etc.    Lond.,  1792.    8vo. 

French  Cook. 

The  French  family  Cook,  being  a  complete  Syftem 
of  French  Cookery,  etc.    Lond.,  1 793.    8vo. 

Melrose  (Eliza). 

An  economical  and  new  method  of  Cookery,  defer fb- 
ing  upwards  of  eighty  .  .  .  difhes  ...  and  above  forty 
foups:  with  new  and  ufeful  obfervations,  etc.  Lond!, 
1798.    8vo. 

225  Q 


Holland  (Mary),  Mrs. 

The  Complete  Britifti  Cook,  etc.  Lond.,  1800. 
i2mo. 

Chambers  (Amelia). 

The  Ladies  beft  companion  .  .  .  containing  the 
whole  art  of  Cookery,  Paftry,  etc.  Lond.,  (1800?) 
i2mo. 


CHISWICK  press:    printed  by  CHARLES  WHITTINGHAM  AND  CO. 
TOOKS  COURT,  CHANCERY  LANE,   LONDON. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 
BERKELEY 

Return  to  desk  from  which  borrowed. 
This  book  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 


.iC 


REC'D  l-D 
m    3'64-3PW 


LD  21-100m-9,'48XB399sl6)476 


YC   18576 


M120366 

u4- 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAUFORNIA  LIBRARY 


