LIBRARY    ' 

!     UNIVE.rf-.Ti'  O.      ! 

\CALl?OSWU 

8I0SC1ENCE8LBRARY 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/bostoncookschoolOOfarmrich 


THE   BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL 

COOK   BOOK 


BY 

FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Author  of  "  Chafing-dish  Possibilities,"  "  Food  and  Cookery 

FOR  THE  Sick  and  Convalescent,"  "A  New 

Book  of  Cookery  " 


Two  Thousand  One  Hundred  and  Seventeen  Recipes^ 
Covering  the  Whole  Range  of  Cookery,  and 
One  Hundred  and  Thirty-two  Half- 
tone Illustrations 


BOSTON 

LITTLE,  BROWN,  AND  COMPANY 

1917 


Copyright,  1896,  1900,  1901,  1902, 190S,  1904,  1905, 1906,  19U, 
By  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer 


7/ 

7/5 

F3 
19/7 


^' 


TO 


MRS.  WILLIAM    B.  SEWALL, 

IN  APPBECIATION   OP   HER    HELPFUL    ENCOURAGEMENT   AND 

UNTIRING    EFFORTS    IN    PROMOTING"  THE   WORK  OP 

SCIENTIFIC   COOKERY,    WHICH   MEANS   THE 

ELEVATION   OP   THE    HUMAN   RACE, 

THIS  BOOK  IS  AFFECTIONATELY  DEDICATED 
By  THE   Author. 


'y- 


Cookery  means  the  knowledge  of  Medea  and  of  Circe 
and  of  Helen  and  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba.  It  means  the 
knowledge  of  all  herbs  and  fruits  and  balms  and  spices,  and 
all  that  is  healing  and  sweet  in  the  fields  and  groves  and 
savory  in  meats.  It  means  carefulness  and  inventiveness 
and  willingness  and  readiness  of  appliances.  It  means  the 
economy  of  your  grandmothers  and  the  science  of  the  modern 
chemist ;  it  means  much  testing  and  ?io  wasting;  it  means 
English  thoroughness  and  French  art  and  Arabian  hospi- 
tality; and,  in  fine,  it  means  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and 
always  ladies  —  loaf  givers.  —  RuSKiN. 


PREFACE 


"But  for  life  the  universe  were  nothiiig;  and  all 
that  has  life  requires  nourishment." 

With  the  progress  of  knowledge  the  needs  of  the 
human  body  have  not  been  forgotten.  During  the  last 
decade  much  time  has  been  given  by  scientists  to  the 
study  of  foods  and  their  dietetic  value,  and  it  is  a 
subject  which  rightfully  should  demand  much  con- 
sideration from  all.  I  certainly  feel  that  the  time  is 
not  far  distant  when  a  knowledge  of  the  principles  of 
diet  will  be  an  essential  part  of  one's  education.  Then 
mankind  will  eat  to  live,  will  be  able  to  do  better 
mental  and  physical  work,  and  disease  will  be  less 
frequent. 

At  the  earnest  solicitation  of  educators,  pupils,  and 
friends,  I  have  been  urged  to  prepare  this  book,  and  I 
trust  it  may  be  a  help  to  many  who  need  its  aid.  It 
is  my  wish  that  it  may  not  only  be  looked  upon  as  a 
compilation  of  tried  and  tested  recipes,  but  that  it  may 
awaken  an  interest  through  its  condensed  scientific 
knowledge  which  will  lead  to  deeper  thought  and 
broader  study  of  what  to  eat. 

F.  M.  F. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Chapter  Page 

I.    Food 1 

II.    Cookery 15 

III.  Beverages 32 

IV.  Bread  and  Bread  Making 46 

V.    Biscuits,  Breakfast  Cakes,  and  Shortcakes  70 

VI.    Cereals      ............  85 

VII.    Eggs 94 

VIII.    Soups 109 

IX.    Soups  without  Stock 135 

X.    Soup  Garnishings  and  Force-meats  .     .     .  145 

XI.    Fish ., 151 

XII.    Beef 191 

XIII.  Lamb  and  Mutton 214 

XIV.  Veal 226 

XV.    Sweetbreads 232 

XVI.    Pork 235 

XVII.    Poultry  and  Game 240 

XVIII.    Fish  and  Meat  Sauces 265 

XIX.    Vegetables 280 

XX.    Potatoes 309 

XXI.    Salads  and   Salad  Dressings 322 

XXII.    ENTRifES 348 

XXIII.  Hot  Puddings 390 

XXIV.  Pudding  Sauces     .    .    -  " 40^ 


X  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS      * 

Chapter  Page 

XXV.    Cold  Desserts 411 

XXVI.    Ices,   Ice   Creams,  and   other    Frozen 

Desserts 433 

XXVII.    Pastry 460 

XXVIII.    Pies 466 

X]^IX.    Pastry  Desserts 475 

XXX.    Gingerbreads,  Cookies,  and  Wafers     .  482 

XXXI.    Cake 497 

XXXlI.    Cake  Fillings  and  Frostings  ....  524 

XXXIII.  Fancy  Cakes  and  Confections      .     .     ,  533 

XXXIV.  Sandwiches  and  Canapes 549 

XXXV.    Recipes  for  the  Chafing-dish  ....  556 

XXXVI.    Fruits  :  Fresh,  Preserved,  and  Canned  567 
XXXVII.    Helpful  Hints  for  the  Young  House- 
keeper     .,,.,, 586 

XXXVIII.    Suitable  Combinations  for  Serving     .  593 

Breakfast  Menus 593 

Luncheon  Menus  .     .     . 595 

Dinner  Menus 598 

Menu  for  Thanksgiving  Dinner  .     .     .  601 

Menu  for  Christmas  Dinner    ....  601 

A  Full  Course  Dinner     ......  601 

Menus  for  Full  Course  Dinners     .     .  603 

Glossary 605 

Miss  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery 607 

Index     « 617 


LIST   OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


Table  laid  for  Formal  Dinner Frontispiece 

Facing  Page 

A  Group  of  Kitchen  Utensils 14 

Measuring  Cups  and  Tea  and  Table  Measuring  Spoons  16 

The  Whipping  of  Heavy  and  Thin  Cream       ....  15 

Five  o'clock  Tea  Service 34 

Chocolate  Service 34 

Coffee  Percolators  and  Pot 35 

After  Dinner  Coffee  Service 35 

Punch  Service '. 44 

Claret  Cup  Service .44 

Double  Loaves  of  Milk  and  Water  Bread       ....  45 

Boston  Brown  Bread 45 

Parker  House  Rolls ;  Salad  Rolls ;  Clover  Leaf  Biscuit ; 

Sticks 58 

Sweet  French  Rolls .  58 

Coffee  Cakes  (Brioche) 59 

Swedish  Tea  Ring  ;  Swedish  Tea  Braid 59 

Swedish  Tea  Ring  II  before  baking 64 

Swedish  Tea  Ring  II 64 

Raised  Hominy  Muffins 65 

Pop  Overs 65 

Waffles 80 

Strawberry  Shortcake „     .     .     •  80 

Shirred  Egg 81 

Eggs  k  la  Commodore 81 

Planked  Eggs 104 


Xll  LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 

Facing  Page 

Plain  Omelet 104 

Utensils  and  Materials  for  the  starting  of  Brown  Soup 

Stock 105 

Utensils  for  making  Cream  Soups 134 

Cream  Soup  and  Crotltons  ready  for  serving       .     .     .  134 

CroMons ;  Imperial  Sticks ;  Mock  Almonds  ....  135 

Souffled  Crackers 135 

Broiled  Mackerel  garnished  with  Potato  Balls,  Cucumber 
Ribbons,  Slices  of  Lemon  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and 

Parsley 160 

Hollenden  Halibut 160 

Stuffed  Haddock  ready  for  baking 161 

Smelts  prepared  for  cooking ..161 

Planked  Haddock 170 

Fillets  of  Fish  k  la  Bement 170 

Oyster  Cocktail  I  and  IT 171 

Clams  Union  League     ...          186 

Oysters  a  la  Ballard 186 

Lobster  Cocktail 187 

Fruit  Cocktail 187 

Cuts  of  Beef 194 

Cuts  of  Beef 195 

Planks  for  Planked  Dishes 200 

Beefsteak  a  la  Maribeau 200 

Side  of  Veal 201 

Side  of  Lamb .  201 

Kidney  Lamb  Chop;  Rib  Chop;  French  Chop    .     .     .  218 

Crown  of  Lamb,  prepared  for  roasting 218 

Saddle  of  Mutton  as  purcha^sed 219 

Saddle  of  Mutton  Roasted  and  Garnished      .     ,     ,     .219 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Napoli 234 

Braised  Sweetbreads  Euge'nie 234 

Chicken  Broiled  and  Garnished 235 

Breslin  Potted  Chicken  in  Casserole  Dish       ....  235 

Roast  Turkey  garnished  for  serving 256 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS  xiii 

Facing  Page 

Duck,  stuffed  and  trussed  for  roasting 256 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant 257 

Puree  of  Spinach 257 

Stuffed  Peppers 308 

Macedoine  of  Vegetables  a  la  Poulette 308 

O'Brion  Potatoes o 309 

Potato  Croquettes  ready  for  frying 316 

Potato  Nests  and  Potatoes,  Somerset  Style  ....  316 

Cucumber  Salad 317 

Cucumber  Baskets 317 

Asparagus  Salad,  Individual  Service 330 

Berkshire  Salad  in  Boxes 330 

Egg  Salad 331 

Pear  Salad 331 

Lobster  Salad  III 342 

Mexican  Jelly 342 

Oyster  Crabs  a  la  Newburg,  Individual  Service  .     .     .  343 

Sweetbread  Ramequins 343 

Russian  Cutlets 374 

Dresden  Patties 374 

Devilled  Crabs 375 

Pan  Broiled  Lamb  Chops  a  la  Lucullus 375 

Chaud-froid  of  Eggs 386 

Capon  in  Aspic 386 

Harvard  Pudding  served   with    Crushed  Berries  and 

Whipped  Cream 387 

Snowballs  garnished  with  Strawberries 387 

Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding 422 

Toasted  Marshm allows 422 

Charlotte  Russe 423 

Orange  Trifle  garnished  with  Whipped  Cream,  Candied 

Orange  Peel,  and  Blossoms 423 

Coup  Sicilienne 442 

Coup  a  I'Ananas 442 

Coffee  Ice  Cream  served  in  half  of  Cantaloupe  .     .     .  442 


xiv  IJ^ST  OF  tLLUSTUATIONS 

Facing  Page 

Yanilla  Ice  Cream  served  in  half  of  Cantaloupe  with 

Fruit  Garnish 442 

Junket  Ice  Cream  with  Peaches 443 

Bombe  Glacee 443 

Utensils  and  Materials  for  the  making  of  Puff  Paste    .  460 

Calve  Tarts 460 

English  Meat  Pie 461 

Patties  garnished  with  Pastry  Rings  and  Parsley    .     .  461 

Cheese  Straws 474 

Cocoanut  Tea  Cakes 474 

Lemon  Tartlets 475 

Fruit  Baskets 475 

Rich  Cookies 488 

Royal  Fans 488 

Chocolate  Cakes  and  Crescents 489 

Meringues       .     .    -. 489 

Marguerites  I 494 

English  Rolled  Wafers  I-II 494 

Mocha  Cakes  and  Small  Eclairs 495 

Ice  Cream  Cake  with  Nut  Caramel  Frosting    ....  495 
Cake  frosted  for  St.  Valentine's   Day  for  the  use  of 

Mocha  Frosting 532 

Ornamental  Frosted  Cake 532 

Dipped  Walnuts 533 

Bonbons 533 

Cream  Mints ,.     .     .     .  548 

Candied  Orange  Peel    .     .     .     . 548 

Noisette  Sandwiches 549 

Bread  and  Butter  Folds 549 

Lobster  Canape 554 

Canape- Martha 554 

Jelly  Bag  and  other  necessary  utensils  for  jelly  making  555 

Marmalades,  Jams,  and  Jellies 555 

Utensils  necessary  for  canning    c 576 

Canned  Fruits « 576 


UST   OF   ILLUSTRATIONS  XV 

Facing  Page 

Pickles  ready  for  serving  and  Crock  for  keeping  Pickles  577 

Red  Peppers  being  prepared  for  canning  .     .     ,     .     .  577 

Table  laid  for  Breakfast    .     .     .     .  ; 592 

Luncheon  Table  laid  for  Fish  Course 593 

Table  laid  for  Formal  Luncheon 596 

Centrepiece  for  Luncheon  or  Dinner  Table    ....  597 

Centrepiece  for  Thanksgiving  Dinner  Table  ....  697 

Christmas  Dinner  Table 600 

Table  laid  for  Reception    .     .^ 601 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL 
COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  I 
FOOD 

FOOD  is  anything  which  nourishes  the  body.  From  fifteen 
to  twenty  elements  enter  into  the  composition  of  the 
body,  of  which  the  following  thirteen  are  considered :  oxy- 
gen, 62>^%  ;  carbon,  21}4%''>  hydrogen,  10%;  nitrogen, 
3%  ;  calcium,  phosphorus,  potassium,  sulphur,  chlorine,  so- 
dium, magnesium,  iron,  and  fluorine  the  remaining  3%. 

Food  is  necessary  for  growth,  repair,  and  energy ;  there- 
fore the  elements  composing  the  body  must  be  found  in  the 
food.  The  thirteen  elements  named  are  formed  into  chem- 
ical compounds  by  the  vegetable  and  animal  kingdoms  to 
support  the  highest  order  of  being,  man.  All  food  must 
undergo  chemical  change  after  being  taken  into  the  body, 
before  it  can  be  utilized  by  the  body ;  this  is  the  office  of  the 
digestive  system. 

Food  is  classified  as  follows :  — 

ri.    Proteid  (nitrogenous  or  albuminous) 
I.     Organic     \  2.   Carbohydrates  (sugar  and  starch) 
1 3.   Fats  and  oils 

Mineral  matter 

Water 


II.     Inorganic 


The  chief  office  of  proteids  is  to  build  and  repair  tissues. 
They  furnish  energy,  but  at  greater  cost  than  carbohydrates, 
fats,  and  oils.  They  contain  nitrogen,  carbon,  oxygen,  hy- 
drogen, and  sulphur  or  phosphorus,  and  include  all  forms  of 


S  BOSTON  COOKIKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

animal  foods  (excepting  fats  and  glycogen)  and  some  vegeta- 
ble foods.  Examples :  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  meat,  fish,  cere- 
als, peas,  beans,  and  lentils.  The  principal  constituent  of 
proteid  food  is  albumen.  Albumen  as  fouad  in  food  takes 
different  names,  but  has  the  same  chemical  composition  ;  as, 
albumen  in  eggs,  fibrin  in  meat,  casein  in  milk  and  cheese, 
vegetable  casein  or  legumen  in  peas,  beans,  and  lentils ;  and 
gluten  in  wheat.     To  this  same  class  belongs  gelatin. 

The  chief  office  of  the  carbohydrates  is  to  furnish  energy 
and  maintain  heat.  They  contain  carbon,  hydrogen,  and 
oxygen,  and  include  foods  containing  starch  and  sugar. 
Examples :  vegetables,  fruits,  cereals,  sugars,  and  gums. 

The  chief  office  of  fats  and  oils  is  to  store  energy  and  heat 
to  be  used  as  needed,  and  constitute  the  adipose  tissues  of 
the  body.  Examples:  butter,  cream,  fat  of  meat,  fish, 
cereals,  nuts,  and  the  berry  of  the  olive-tree. 

The  chief  office  of  mineral  matter  is  to  furnish  the  neces- 
sary salts  which  are  found  in  all  animal  and  vegetable  foods. 
Examples :  sodium  chloride  (common  salt) ;  carbonates,  sul- 
phates and  phosphates  of  sodium,  potassium,  and  magne- 
sium ;  besides  calcium  phosphates  and  iron. 

Water  constitutes  about  two-thirds  the  weight  of  the  body, 
and  is  in  all  tissues  and  fluids ;  therefore  its  abundant  use  is 
necessary.  One  of  the  greatest  errors  in  diet  is  neglect  to 
take  enough  water ;  while  it  is  found  in  all  animal  and  vege- 
table food,  the  amount  is  insuflScient. 

CORRECT  PROPORTIONS  OP  POOD 

Age,  sex,  occupation,  climate,  and  season  must  determine 
the  diet  of  a  person  in  normal  condition. 

Liquid  food  (milk  or  milk  in  preparation  with  the  various 
prepared  foods  on  the  market)  should  constitute  the  diet  of 
a  child  for  the  first  eighteen  months.  After  the  teeth  appear, 
by  which  time  ferments  have  been  developed  for  the  diges- 
tion of  starchy  foods,  entire  wheat  bread,  baked  potatoes, 
cereals,  meat  broths',  and  occasionally  boiled  eggs  may  be 
given.  If  mothers  would  use  Dr.  Johnson's  Educators  in 
place  of  the  various  sweet  crackers,  children  would  be  as 


CORRECT  PROPORTIONS  OF  FOOD  8 

well  pleased  and  better  nourished;  with  a  glass  of  milk 
they  form  a  supper  suited  to  the  needs  of  little  ones,  and  ex- 
perience has  shown  that  children  seldom  tire  of  them.  The 
diet  should  be  gradually  increased  by  the  addition  of  cooked 
fruits,  vegetables,  and  simple  desserts;  the  third  or  fourth 
year  fish  and  meat  may  be  introduced,  if  given  sparingly. 
Always  avoid  salted  meats,  coarse  vegetables  (beets,  carrots, 
and  turnips),  cheese,  fried  food,  pastry,  rich  desserts,  con- 
fections, condiments,  tea,  coffee,  and  iced  water.  For  school 
children  the  diet  should  be  varied  and  abundant,  constantly 
bearing  in  mind  that  this  is  a  period  of  great  mental  and 
physical  growth.  Where  children  have  broken  down,  sup- 
posedly from  over- work,  the  cause  has  often  been  traced  to 
impoverished  diet.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  diges- 
tive processes  go  on  so  rapidly  that  the  stomach  is  soon 
emptied^  Thanks  to  the  institutor  of  the  school  luncheon- 
counter  I 
The  daily  average  ration  of  an  adult  requires 

4)^  oz.  proteid  18  oz.  starch 

■    2  oz.  fat  6  pints  water 

About  one-third  of  the  water  is  taken  in  our  food,  the 
remainder  as  a  beverage.  To  keep  in  health  and  do  the 
best  mental  and  physical  work,  authorities  agree  that  a 
mixed  diet  is  suited  for  temperate  climates,  although  sound 
arguments  appear  from  the  vegetarian.  Women,  even  though 
they  do  the  same  amount  of  work  as  men,  as  a  rule  require 
less  food.  Brain  workers  should  take  their  proteid  in  a  form 
easily  digested.  In  consideration  of  this  fact,  fish  and  eggs 
form  desirable  substitutes  for  meat.  The  working  man  needs 
quantity  as  well  as  quality,  that  the  stomach  may  have  some- 
thing to  act  upon.  Corned  beef,  cabbage,  brown-bread, 
and  pastry,  will  not  overtax  his  digestion.  In  old  age  the 
digestive  organs  lessen  in  activity,  and  the  diet  should  be 
almost  as  simple  as  that  of  a  child,  increasing  the  amount 
of  carbohydrates  and  decreasing  the  amount  of  proteids 
and  fat.  Many  diseases  which  occur  after  middle  life  are 
due  to  eating  and. drinking  such  foods  as  were  indulged  in 
during  vigorous  manhood. 


BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


WATER   (H2O) 

Water  is  a  transparent,  odorless,  tasteless  liquid.  It  is 
derived  from  five  sources, — rains,  rivers,  surface-water  or 
shallow  wells,  deep  wells,  and  springs.  Water  is  never 
found  pure  in  nature  ;  it  is  nearly  pure  when  gathered  in 
an  open  fieM,  after  a  heavy  rainfall,  or  from  springs.  For 
town  and  city  supply,  surface-water  is  furnished  by  some 
adjacent  pond  or  lake.  Samples  of  such  water  are  carefully 
and  frequently  analyzed,  to  make  sure  that  it  is  not  polluted 
with  disease  germs. 

The  hardness  of  water  depends  upon  the  amount  of  salts 
of  lime  and  magnesia  which  it  contains.  Soft  water  is  free 
from  objectionable  salts,  and  is  preferable  for  household 
purposes.  Hard  water  may  be  softened  by  boiling,  or  by 
the  addition  of  a  small  amount  of  bicarbonate  of  soda 
(NaHCOa). 

Water  freezes  at  a  temperature  of  32°  F.,  boils  at 
212°  F. ;  when  bubbles  appear  on  the  surface  and  burst, 
the  boiling-point  is  reached.  In  high  altitudes  water  boils 
at  a  lower  temperature.  From  32°  to  65°  F.  water  is  termed 
cold;  from  65°  ta  92°  F., tepid;  92°  to  100°  F.,  warm;  over 
that  temperature,  hot.  Boiled  water  is  freed  from  all  organic 
impurities,  and  salts  of  lime  are  precipitated;  it  does  not 
ferment,  and  is  a  valuable  antiseptic.  Hot  water  is  more 
stimulating  than  cold,  and  is  of  use  taken  on  an  empty 
stomach,  while  at  a  temperature  of  from  60°  to  95°  F.  it 
is  used  as  an  emetic;  90°  F.  being  the  most  favorable 
temperature. 

Distilled  water  is  chemically  pure  and  is  always  used  for 
medicinal  purposes.  It  is  flat  and  insipid  to  the  taste,  hav- 
ing been  deprived  of  its  atmospheric  gases. 

There  are  many  charged,  carborated,  and  mineral  spring 
waters  bottled  and  put  on  the  market ;  many  of  these  are 
used  as  agreeable  table  beverages.  Examples  :  Soda  Water, 
ApoUinaris,  Poland,  Seltzer,  and  Vichy.  Some  contain  min- 
erals of  medicinal  value.  Examples :  Lithia,  saline,  and 
sulphur  waters. 


STAECH 


SALTS 


Of  all  salts  found  in  the  body,  the  most  abundant  and 
valuable  is  sodium  chloride  (NaCl),  common  salt;  it  exists 
in  all  tissues,  secretions,  and  fluids  of  the  body,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  enamel  of  the  teeth.  The  amount  found  in  food 
is  not  always  sufficient ;  therefore  salt  is  used  as  a  condiment. 
It  assists  digestion,  inasmuch  as  it  furnishes  chlorine  for 
hydrochloric  acid  found  in  gastric  juice. 

Common  salt  is  obtained  from  evaporation  of  spring  and 
sea  water,  also  from  mines.  Our  supply  of  salt  obtained 
by  evaporation  comes  chiefly  from  Michigan  and  New  York  ; 
mined  salt  from  Louisiana  and  Kansas. 

Salt  is  a  great  preservative ;  advantage  is  taken  of  this  in 
salting  meat  and  fish. 

Other  salts  —  lime,  phosphorus,  magnesia,  potash,  sul- 
phur, and  iron  —  are  obtained  in  sufficient  quantity  from 
food  we  eat  and  water  we  drink.  In  young  children,  perfect 
formation  of  bones  and  teeth  depends  upon  phosphorus  and 
lime  taken  into  the  system ;  these  are  found  in  meat  and  fish, 
but  abound  in  cereals.  ** 

STARCH  (CeHioOfi) 

Starch  is  a  white,  glistening  powder;  it  4s  largely  distrib- 
uted throughout  the  vegetable  kingdom,  being  found  most 
abundantly  in  cereals  and  potatoes.  Being  a  force-producer 
and  heat-giver  it  forms  one  of  the  most  important  foods. 
Alone  it  cannot  sustain  life,  but  must  be  taken  in  combina- 
tion with  foods  which  build  and  repair  tissues. 

Test  for  Starch.  A  weak  solution  of  iodine  added  to  cold 
cooked  starch  gives  an  intense  blue  color. 

Starch  is  insoluble  in  cold  water,  and  soluble  to  but  a 
small  extent  in  boiling  water.  Cold  water  separates  starch- 
grains,  boiling  water  causes  them  to  swell  and  burst,  thus 
forming  a  paste. 

Starch  subjected  to  dry  heat  is  changed  to  dextrine 
(CfHioOj),  British  gum.     Dextrine  subjected  to  heat  plus  aa 


f)  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

acid  or  a  ferment  is  changed  to  dextrose  (CgHigOc).  Dextrose 
occurs  in  ripe  fruit,  honey,  sweet  wine,  and  as  a  manufactured 
product.  When  grain  is  allowed  to  germinate  for  malting 
purposes,  starch  is  changed  to  dextrine  and  dextrose.  In 
fermentation,  dextrose  is  changed  to  alcohol  (C2H5HO)  and 
carbon  dioxide  (CO2).  Examples :  bread  making,  vinegar, 
and  distilled  liquors. 

Glycogen,  animal  starch,  is  found  in  many  animal  tis- 
sues and  in  some  fungi.  Examples :  in  liver  of  meat  and 
oysters. 

Raw  starch  is  not  digestible ;  consequently  all  foods  con- 
taining starch  should  be  subjected  to  boiling  water  or  dry 
heat,  and  thoroughly  cooked.  Starch  is  manufactured  from 
wheat,  corn,  and  potatoes.  Cornstarch  is  manufactured 
from  Indian  corn.  Arrowroot,  the  purest  form  of  starch,  is 
obtained  from  two  or  three  species  of  the  Maranta  plant, 
which  grows  in  the  West  Indies  and  other  tropical  countries. 
Bermuda  arrowroot  is  most  highly  esteemed.  Tapioca  is 
starch  obtained  from  tuberous  roots  of  the  bitter  cassava, 
native  of  South  America.  Sago  is  starch  obtained  from  sago 
palms,  native  of  India. 

SUGAR  (CisHs^On) 

Sugar  is  a  crystalline  substance,  differing  from  starch  by 
its  sweet  taste  and  solubility  in  cold  water.  As  food,  its 
uses  are  the  same  as  starch ;  all  starch  must  be  converted 
into  sugar  before  it  can  be  assimilated. 

The  principal  kinds  of  sugar  are :  cane  sugar  or  sucrose, 
grape  sugar  or  glucose  (CeHigOe),  milk  sugar  or  lactose 
(C12H22O11),   and  fruit  sugar  or  levulose  (CgHiaOe). 

Cane  sugar  is  obtained  from  sugar  cane,  beets,  and  the 
palm  and  sugar-maple  trees.  Sugar  cane  is  a  grass  sup- 
posed to  be  native  to  Southern  Asia,  but  now  grown 
throughout  the  tropics,  a  large  amount  coming  from  Cuba 
and  Louisiana ;  it  is  the  commonest  of  all,  and  in  all 
cases  the  manufacture  is  essentially  the  same.  The  prod- 
ucts of  manufacture  are:  molasses,  syrup,  brown  sugar, 
loaf,  cut,  granulated,  powdered,  and  confectioners'  sugar. 
Brown  sugar  is  cheapest,  but  is  not  so  pure  or  sweet  as  white 


GUM,    PECTOSE,  AND  CELLULOSE  7 

grades  ;  powdered  and  confectioners*  sugars  are  fine  grades, 
pulverized,  and,  although  seeming  less  sweet  to  the  taste, 
are  equally  pure.  Confectioners*  sugar  when^applied  to  the 
tongue  will  dissolve  at  once ;  powdered  sugar  is  a  little 
granular. 

Cane  sugar  when  added  to  fruits,  and  allowed  to  cook  for 
some  time,  changes  to  grape  sugar,  losing  one- third  of  its 
sweetness ;  therefore  the  reason  for  adding  it  when  fruit  is 
nearly  cooked.  .  Cane  sugar  is  of  great  preservative  value, 
hence  its  use  in  preserving  fruits  and  milk;  also,  for  the 
preparation  of  syrups. 

Three  changes  take  place  in  the  cooking  of  sugar :  first, 
barley  sugar ;  second,  caramel ;  third,  carbon. 

Grape  sugar  is  found  in  honey  and  all  sweet  fruits.  It 
appears  on  the  outside  of  dried  fruits,  such  as  raisins,  dates, 
etc.,  and  is  only  two- thirds  as  sweet  as  cane  sugar.  As  a 
manufactured  product  it  is  obtained  from  the  starch  of  corn. 

Milk  sugar  is  obtained  from  the  milk  of  mammalia,  but 
unlike  cane  sugar  does  not  ferment. 

Fruit  sugar  is  obtained  from  sweet  fruits,  and  is  sold  as 
diahetin,  is  sweeter  than  cane  sugar,  and  is  principally  used 
by  diabetic  patients. 

GUM,  PECTOSE,  AND  CELLULOSE 

These  compounds  found  in  food  are  closely  allied  to  the 
carbohydrates,  but  are  neither  starchy,  saccharine,  nor  oily. 
Gum  exists  in  the  juices  of  almost  all  plants,  coming  from 
the  stems,  branches,  and  fruits.  Examples :  gum  arable, 
gum  tragacanth,  and  mucilage.  Pectose  exists  in  the  fleshy 
pulp  of  unripe  fruit;  during  the  process  of  ripening  it 
changes  to  pectin ;  by  cooking,  pectin  is  changed  to  pectosic 
acid,  and  by  longer  cooking  to  pectic  acid.  Pectosic  acid  is 
jelly-like  when  cold ;  pectic  acid  is  jelly-like  when  hot  or 
cold.  Cellulose  constitutes  the  cell-walls  of  vegetable  life ; 
in  very  young  vegetables  it  is  possible  that  it  can  be  acted 
upon  by  the  digestive  ferments ;  in  older  vegetables  it  be- 
woody  and  completely  indigestible. 


8  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


FATS  AND  OILS 

Fats  and  oils  are  found  in  both  the  animal  and  vegetable 
kingdom.  Fats  are  solid ;  oils  are  liquid ;  they  may  be  con- 
verted into  a  liquid  state  by  application  of  heat ;  they  contain 
three  substances, — stearin  (solid),  olein  (liquid),  palmitin 
(semi-solid).  Suet  is  an  example  where  stearin  is  found  in 
excess ;  lard,  where  olien  is  in  excess  ;  and  butter,  where  pal- 
mitin is  in  excess.  Margarin  is  a  mixture  of  stearin  and 
palmitin.  The  fatty  acids  are  formed  of  stearin,  olein, 
and  palmitin,  with  glycerine  as  the  base.  Examples  :  stearic, 
palmitic,  and  oleic  acid.  Butyric  acid  is  acid  found  in  but- 
ter. These  are  not  sour  to  the  taste,  but  are  called  acids  on 
account  of  their  chemical  composition. 

Among  fats  cream  and  butter  are  of  first  importance  as 
foods,  on  account  of  their  easy  assimilation.  Other  exam- 
ples are :  the  fat  of  meats,  bone-marrow,  suet  (the  best  found 
around  the  loin  and  kidneys  of  the  beef  creature),  cocoanut 
butter,  butterine,  and  oleomargarine.  The  principal  animal 
oils  are  cod-liver  oil  and  oil  found  in  the  yolk  of  egg ;  princi- 
pal vegetable  oils  are  olive,  cottonseed,  poppy,  and  cocoanut 
oils,  peanut  oil,  and  oils  in  various  nuts.  Butterine  and 
oleomargarine,  which  must  be  labelled  as  such,  if  of  good 
quality,  are  nutritious,  inexpensive  fats  to  be  used  in  place 
of  creamery  butter.  Among  other  fats  used  for  cooking 
purposes,  lard,  crisco,  and  cottolene  are  the  most  popular. 

Oils  are  divided  into  two  classes,  essential  a.nd  Jixed.  Es- 
sential oils  are  volatile  and  soluble  in  alcohol.  Examples : 
clove,  rose,  nutmeg,  and  violet.  Fixed  oils  are  non-volatile 
and  soluble  in  ether,  oil,  or  turpentine.  Examples :  oil  of 
nuts,  corn  meal,  and  mustard. 

Fats  may  be  heated  to  a  high  temperature,  as  considered 
in  cookery  they  have  no  boiling-point.  When  appearing  to 
boil,  it  is  evident  water  has  been  added,  and  the  temperature 
lowered  to  that  of  boiling  water,  212°  F. 


MILK 


MILK 


COMPOSITION 


Proteid,  3.5%  Mineral  matter,  .75% 

Fat,  4%  Water,  87.25% 

Lactose,  4.75% 

The  value  of  milk  as  a  food  is  obvious  from  the  fact  that 
it  Constitutes  the  natural  food  of  all  young  mammalia  during 
the  period  of  their  most  rapid  growth.  There  is  some  danger, 
however,  of  overestimating  its  value  in  the  dietary  of  adults, 
as  solid  food  is  essential,  and  liquid  taken  should  act  as  a 
stimulant  and  a  solvent  rather  than  as  a  nutrient.  One  ob- 
tains the  greatest  benefit  from  milk  when  taken  alone  at  reg- 
ular intervals  between  meals,  or  before  retiring,  and  sipped, 
•rather  than  drunk.  Hot  milk  is  often  given  to  produce 
sleep. 

When  milk  is  allowed  to  stand  for  a  few  hours,  the  globules 
of  fat,  which  have  been  held  in  suspension  throughout  the 
liquid,  rise  to  the  top  in  the  form  of  cream;  this  is  due  to 
their  lower  specific  gravity. 

The  difference  in  quality  of  milk  depends  chiefly  on  the 
quantity  of  fat  therein :  casein,  lactose,  and  mineral  matter 
being  nearly  constant,  water  varying  but  little  unless  milk 
is  adulterated. 

Why  Milk  Sours.  A  germ  found  floating  in  the  air  at- 
tacks a  portion  of  the  lactose  in  the  milk,  converting  it  into 
lactic  acid ;  this,  in  turn,  acts  upon  the  casein  (proteid)  and 
precipitates  it,  producing  what  is  known  as  curd  and  whey. 
Whey  contains  water,  salts,  and  some  sugar. 

Milk  is  preserved  by  sterilization,  pasteurization,  and  evap- 
oration. Fresh  condensed  milk,  a  form  of  evaporized  milk, 
is  sold  in  bulk,  and  is  preferred  by  many  to  serve  with  coffee. 
Various  brands  of  condensed  milk  and  cream  are  on  the  mar- 
ket in  tin  cans,  hermetically  sealed.  Examples :  Nestle's 
Swiss  Condensed  Milk,  Eagle  Condensed  Milk,  Daisy  Con- 
densed Milk,  Highland  Evaporated  Cream,  Borden's  Peerless 
Evaporated  Cream.     Malted  milk  —  evaporized  milk  in  com- 


10  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

bination  with  extracts  of  malted  barley  and  wheat  —  is  used 
to  a  considerable  extent ;  it  is  sold  in  the  form  of  powder. 

Thin,  or  strawberry,  and  thick  cream  may  be  obtained 
from  almost  all  creameries.  Devonshire,  or  clotted  cream, 
is  cream  which  has  been  removed  from  milk  allowed  to  heat 
slowly  to  a  temperature  of  about  150°  F. 

In  feeding  infants  with  milk,  sterilization  or  pasteurization 
is  recommended  only  to  avoid  danger  of  infectious  germs. 
By  this  process  milk  can  be  kept  for  many  days,  and 
transported  if  necessary.  To  prevent  acidity  of  the  stomach, 
add  from  one  to  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lime  water  to  each 
half-pint  of  milk.  Lime  water  may  be  bought  at  any 
druggist's,  or  easily  prepared  at  home. 

Lime  "Water.  Pour  two  quarts  boiling  water  over  an  inch 
cube  unslacked  lime ;  stir  thoroughly  and  stand  over  night ; 
in  the  morning  pour  off  the  liquid  that  is  clear,  and  bottle  for 
use.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

BUTTER 

COMPOSrflON 

Fat,  83^  Ash,  3% 

Water,  13%  Protein,  1% 

U.  S.  Vept.  Agriculture. 

Butter  of  commerce  is  made  from  cream  of  cow's  milk. 
The  quality  depends  upon  the  breed  of  cow,  manner  of,  and 
care  in,  feeding.  Milk  from  Jersey  and  Guernsey  cows  yields 
,the  largest  amount  of  butter. 

Butter  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  and  well  covered^ 
otherwise  it  is  liable  to  become  rancid;  this  is  due  to  the 
albuminous  constituents  of  the  milk,  acting  as  a  ferment, 
setting  free  the  fatty  acids.  First-quality  butter  should 
be  used;  this  does  not  include  pat  butter  or  fancy  grades. 
Poor  butter  has  not  been  as  thoroughly  worked  during  man- 
ufacture, consequently  more  casein  remains ;  therefore  it  is 
more  apt  to  become  -rancid.  Fresh  butter  spoils  quickly ; 
salt  acts  as  a  preservative.  Butter  which  has  become  rancid 
by  too  long  keeping  may  be  greatly  improved  by  melting, 


CHEESE  11 

heating,  and  quickly  chilling  with  ice-water.  The  butter  will 
rise  to  the  top,  and  may  be  easily  removed. 

Where  butter  cannot  be  afforded,  there  are  several  products 
on  the  market  which  have  the  same  chemical  composition  as 
butter,  and  are  equally  wholesome.  Examples :  butterine 
and  oleomargarine. 

Buttermilk  is  liquid  remaining  after  buttep  "  has  come." 
When  taken  fresh,  it  makes  a  wholesome  beverage. 

COMPOSITION 

Proteid,  31.23%  Water,  30.17% 

Fat,  34.39%  Mineral  matter,  4.31% 

Cheese  is  the  solid  part  of  sweet  milk  obtained  by  heating 
milk  and  coagulating  it  by  means  of  rennet  or  an  acid.  Ren- 
net is  an  infusion  made  from  prepared  inner  membrane  of 
the  fourth  stomach  of  the  calf.  The  curd  is  salted  and  sub- 
jected to  pressure.  Cheese  is  made  from  skim  milk,  milk  plus 
cream,  or  cream.  Cheese  is  kept  for  a  longer  or  shorter 
time,  according  to  the  kind,  that  fermentation  or  decompo- 
sition may  take  place.  This  is  called  ripening.  Some  cream 
cheeses  are  not  allowed  to  ripen.  Milk  from  Jersey  and 
Guernsey  cows  yields  the  largest  amount  of  cheese. 

Cheese  is  very  valuable  food ;  being  rich  in  proteid,  it 
may  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  meat.  A  pound  of  cheese 
is  equal  in  proteid  to  two  pounds  of  befef.  Cheese  in  the  raw 
state  is  difficult  of  digestion.  This  is  somewhat  overcome 
by  cooking  and  adding  a  small  amount  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda.  A  small  piece  of  rich  cheese  is  often  eaten  to  assist 
digestion. 

The  various  brands  of  cheese  take  their  names  from  the 
places  where  made.  Many  foreign  ones  are  now  well  imi- 
tated in  this  country.  The  favorite  kinds  of  skim-milk 
cheese  are:  Edam,  Gruyere,  and  Parmesan.  Parmesan  is 
very  hard  and  used  principally  for  grating.  The  holes  in 
Gruyere  are  due  to  aeration. 

The  favorite  kinds  of  milk  cheese  are ;  Gloucester,  Che- 


12  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK   BOOK 

shire,  Cheddar,  and  Gorgonzola ;  Milk  and  Cream  cheese : 
Stilton  and  Double  Gloucester;  Cream  cheese:  Brie,  Neuf- 
chatel,  and  Camembert. 

FRUITS 

The  varieties  of  fruits  consumed  are  numerous,  and  their 
uses  important.  They  are  chiefly  valuable  for  their  sugar, 
acids,  and  salts,  and  are  cooling,  refreshing,  and  stimulating. 
They  act  as  a  tonic,  and  assist  in  purifying  the  blood.  Many 
contain  a  jelly-like  substance,  called  pectin,  and  several  con- 
tain starch,  which  during  the  ripening  process  is  converted 
into  glucose.  Bananas,  dates,  figs,  prunes,  and  grapes, 
owing  to  their  large  amount  of  sugar,  are  the  most  nutritious. 
Melons,  oranges,  lemons,  and  grapes  contain  the  largest 
amount  of  water.  Apples,  lemons,  and  oranges  are  valuable 
for  their  potash  salts,  and  oranges  and  lemons  especially 
valuable  for  their  citric  acid.  It  is  of  importance  to  those 
who  are  obliged  to  exclude  much  sugar  from  their  dietary, 
to  know  that  plums,  peaches,  apricots,  and  raspberries  have 
less  sugar  than  other  fruits ;  apples,  sweet  cherries,  grapes, 
and  pears  contain  the  largest  amount.  Apples  are  obtain- 
able nearly  all  the  year,  and  on  account  of  their  variety, 
cheapness,  and  abundance,  are  termed  queen  of  fruits. 

Thoroughly  ripe  fruits  should  be  freely  indulged  in,  and 
to  many  are  more  acceptable  than  desserts  prepared  in  the 
kitchen.  If  possible,  fruits  should  always  appear  on  the 
breakfast-table.  In  cases  where  uncooked  fruit  cannot  be 
freely  eaten,  many  kinds  may  be  cooked  and  prove  valuable. 
Never  eat  unripe  fruit,  or  that  which  is  beginning  to  decay. 
Fruits  should  be  wiped  or  rinsed  before  serving. 

VEGETABLE  ACIDS,   AND  WHERE  FOUND 
The  principal  vegetable  acids  are  : 

I.  Acetic  (HC2H3O2),  found  in  wine  and  vinegar. 

II.  Tartaric  (HaC^HiOg),  found  in  grapes,  pineapples, 
and  tamarinds. 

III.  Malic,  much  like  tartaric,  found  in  apples,  pears, 
peaches,  apricots,  gooseberries,  and  currants. 


CONDIMENTS  IS 

IV.  Citric  (HgCeHfiOT),  found  in  lemons,  oranges,  limes, 
and  citron. 

V.  Oxalic  (H2C2O4),  found  in  rhubarb  and  sorrel. 

To  these  may  be  added  tannic  acid,  obtained  from  gall 
nuts.  Some  fruits  contain  two  or  more  acids.  Malic  and 
citric  are  found  in  strawberries,  raspberries,  gooseberries, 
and  cherries ;  malic,  citric,  and  oxalic  in  cranberries. 

CONDIMENTS 

Condiments  are  not  classed  among  foods,  but  are  known 
as  food  adjuncts.  They  are  used  to  stimulate  the  appetite 
by  adding  flavor  to  food.  Among  the  most  important  are 
salt,  spices,  and  various  flavorings.  Salt,  according  to  some 
authorities,  is  called  a  food,  being  necessary  to  life. 

Black  pepper  is  ground  peppercorns.  Peppercorns  are 
the  dried  berries  of  Pipor  nigrum^  grown  in  the  West  Indies, 
Sumatra,  and  other  eastern  countries. 

"White  pepper  is  made  from  the  same  berry,  the  outer  husk 
being  removed  before  grinding.  It  is  less  irritating  than 
black  pepper  to  the  coating  of  the  stomach. 

Cayenne  pepper  is  the  powdered  pod  of  Capsicum  grown 
on  the  eastern  coast  of  Africa  and  in  Zanzibar. 

Mustard  is  the  ground  seed  of  two  species  of  the  Brassica. 
Brassica  alba  yields  white  mustard  seeds ;  Brassica  nigra^ 
black  mustard  seeds.  Both  species  are  grown  in  Europe  and 
America. 

Ginger  is  the  pulverized  dried  root  of  Zanzibar  officinale, 
grown  in  Jamaica,  China,  and  India.  Commercially  speak- 
ing, there  are  three  grades,  —  Jamaica,  best  and  strongest ; 
Cochin,  and  African. 

Cinnamon  is  the  ground  inner  bark  of  Cinnamomum  zey- 
lanicum,  principally  grown  in  Ceylon.  The  cinnamon  of 
commerce  (cassia)  is  the  powdered  bark  of  different  species 
of  the  same  shrub,  which  is  principally  grown  in  China,  and 
called  Chinese  cinnamon.     It  is  cheaper  than  true  cinnamon. 

Clove  is  the  ground  flower  buds  of  Caryophyllus  aromati- 
cws,  native  to  the  Moluccas  or  Spice  Islands,  but  now  grown 
principally  in  Zanzibar,  Femba,  and  the  West  Indies. 


14  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Pimento  (commonly  called  allspice)  is  the  ground  fruit  of 
Eugenia  pimenta  grown  in  Jamaica  and  the  West  Indies. 

Nutmeg  is  the  kernel  of  the  fruit  of  the  Myristica  fro- 
grans,  grown  in  Banda  Islands. 

Mace.  The  fibrous  network  which  envelops  the  nutmeg 
seed  constitutes  the  mace  of  commerce. 

Vinegar  is  made  from  apple  cider,  malt,  and  wine,  and  is 
the  product  of  fermentation.  It  is  a  great  perservative ; 
hence  its  use  in  the  making  of  pickles,  sauces,  and  other 
condiments.  The  amount  of  acetic  acid  in  vinegar  varies 
from  two  to  seven  per  cent. 

Capers  are  flower  buds  of  Capparis  spinosa,  grown  in 
countries  bordering  the  Mediterranean.  They  are  preserved 
in  vinegar,  and  bottled  for  exportation. 

Horse-radish  is  the  root  of  Cochliaria  armor acia^ —  a  plant 
native  to  Europe,  but  now  grown  in  our  own  country.  It  is 
generally  grated,  mixed  with  vinegar,  and  bottled. 

FLAVORING  EXTRACTS 

Many  flavoring  extracts  are  on  the  market.  Examples: 
almond,  vanilla,  lemon,  orange,  peach,  and  rose.  These 
are  made  from  the  flower,  fruit,  or  seed  from  which  they  are 
named.  Strawberry,  pineapple,  and  banana  extracts  are 
manufactured  from  chemicals. 


UJ|W-JJIIIitl^>,'^'i^Wg».g. 


4-i-V' 


v 


^ 


3^ 


// 


~ 


B 


-Q^' 


I 

3 


,r\ 


jl 


Measuring  cups  and  teaspoons  and  tablespoons  illustrating  the 
measuring  of  dry  ingredients,  butter,  and  liquids. page  25. 


The  Whipping  of  heavy  and  thin  Cream.  —  Page 


COOKERY  15 


CHAPTER  II 

COOKERY 

COOKERY  is  the  art  of  preparing  food  for  the  noui-ish- 
rnent  of  the  body. 

Prehistoric  man  may  have  lived  on  uncooked  foods,  but 
there  are  no  savage  races  to-day  who  do  not  practise  cookery 
in  some  way,  however  crude.  Progress  in  civilization  has 
been  accompanied  by  progress  in  cookery. 

Much  time  has  been  given  in  the  last  few  years  to  the 
study  of  foods,  their  necessary  proportions,  and  manner  of 
cooking  them.  Educators  have  been  shown  by  scientists 
that  this  knowledge  should  be  disseminated;  as  a  result, 
*  *  Cookery  "  is  found  in  the  ^curriculum  of  public  schools  of 
many  of  our  towns  and  cities. 

Food  is  cooked  to  develop  new  flavors,  to  make  it  more 
palatable  and  digestible,  and  to  destroy  micro-organisms. 
For  cooking  there  are  three  essentials  (besides  the  material 
to  be  cooked),  —  heat,  air,  and  moisture. 

Heat  is  molecular  motion,  and  is  produced  by  combustion. 

Air  is  composed  of  oxygen,  nitrogen,  and  argon,  and 
surrounds  everything.  Combustion  cannot  take  place  with- 
out it,  the  oxygen  of  the  air  being  the  only  supporter  of 
combustion. 

Moisture,  in  the  form  of  water,  either  found  in  the  food 
or  added  to  it. 

The  combined  effect  of  heat  and  moisture  swells  and 
bursts  starch-grains;  hardens  albumen  in  eggs,  fish,  and 
meat;  softens  fibrous  portions  of  meat,  and  cellulose  of 
vegetables. 

Heat  is  generated  for  cookery  by  employing  kerosene  oil, 
wood,  coal,  charcoal,  coke,  gas,  alcohol,  or  electricity. 


16  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Among  fuels,  kerosene  oil  is  the  clieapest ;  gas  gives  the 
greatest  amount  of  heat  in  the  shortest  time.  Soft  woody 
like  pine,  on  account  of  its  coarse  fibre,  burns  quickly; 
therefore  makes  the  best  kindling.  Hard  wood^  like  oak 
and  ash,  having  the  fibres  closely  packed,  burns  slowly,  and 
is  used  in  addition  to  pine  wood  for  kindling  coal.  Where 
only  wood  is  used  as  a  fuel,  it  is  principally  hard  wood. 

Charcoal  for  fuel  is  produced  by  the  smothered  combus- 
tion of  wood.  It  gives  an  intense,  even  heat,  therefore  makes 
a  good  broiling  fire.     Its  use  for  kindUng  is  not  infrequent. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  coal:  Anthracite,  or  hard  coal. 
Examples :  Hard  and  free-burning  White  Ash,  Shamokin, 
and  Franklin.  Nut  is  any  kind  of  hard  coal  obtained  from 
screenings.  Bituminous^  or  soft  coal.  Example :  cannel 
coal. 

Coke  is  the  solid  product  of  carbonized  coal,  and  bears 
the  same  relation  to  coal  that  charcoal  bears  to  wood. 

Alcohol  is  employed  as  fuel  when  the  chafing-dish  is  used. 

FIRE 

Fire  for  cookery  is  confined  in  a  stove  or  range,  so  that 
heat  may  be  utilized  and  regulated.  Flame-heat  is  obtained 
from  kerosene,  gas,  or  alcohol,  as  used  in  oil-stoves,  gas- 
stoves  or  gas-ranges,  and  chafing-dishes. 

A  cooking-stove  is  a  large  iron  box  set  on  legs.  It  has  a 
fire-box  in  the  front,  the  sides  of  which  are  lined  with  fire- 
proof material  similar  to  that  of  which  bricks  are  made. 
The  bottom  is  furnished  with  a  movable  iron  grate.  Under- 
neath the  fire-box  is  a  space  which  extends  from  the  grate  to 
a  pan  for  receiving  ashes.  At  the  back  of  fire-box  is  a  com- 
partment called  the  oven,  accessible  on  each  side  of  the  stove 
by  a  door.  Between  the  oven  and  the  top  of  the  stove  is  a 
space  for  the  circulation  of  air. 

Stoves  are  connected  with  chimney-flues  by  means  of  a 
stovepipe,  and  have  dampers  to  regulate  the  supply  of  air 
and  heat,  and  as  an  -outlet  for  smoke  and  gases. 

The  damper  below  the  fire-box  is  known  as  the  front 
damper,  by  means  of  which  the  air  supply  is  regulated,  thus 
regulating  the  heat 


HOW  TO  BUILD  A  FIRE  17 

The  oven  is  heated  by  a  circulation  of  hot  air.  This  is 
accomplished  by  closing  the  oven-damper,  which  is  situated 
near  the  oven.  When  this  damper  is  left  open,  the  hot  air 
rushes  up  the  chimney.  The  damper  near 'the  chimney  is 
known  as  the  chimney-damper.  When  open  it  gives  a  free 
outlet  for  the  escape  of  smoke  and  gas.  When  partially 
closed,  as  is  usually  the  case  in  most  ranges,  except  when 
the  fire  is  started,  it  serves  as  a  saver  of  heat.  There  is 
also  a  check,  which,  when  open,  cools  the  fire  and  saves  heat, 
but  should  always  be  closed  except  when  used  for  this 
purpose. 

Stoves  are  but  seldom  used,  portable  ranges  having  taken 
their  places. 

A  portable  range  is  a  cooking-stove  with  one  oven  door ; 
it  often  has  an  under  oven,  of  use  for  warming  dishes  and 
keeping  food  hot. 

A  gas  range  is  growing  in  popularity.  Coal-range  com- 
panies recognizing  their  value  have  put  on  the  market  com- 
bination ranges  for  the  use  of  gas  as  well  as  coal.  The  gas 
companies,  who  furnish  the  fuel,  send  out  demonstrators 
upon  request  who  teach  their  use. 

An  electric  range  is  desirable  where  electricity  is  inexpen- 
sive or  cost  need  not  be  considered. 

A  fireless  cooker  has  many  devotees.  It  is  especially 
adapted  to  use  in  conjunction  with  a  gas  range  for  foods 
that  require  long,  slow  cooking. 

HOW   TO  BUILD  A  FIRE 

Before  starting  to  build  a  fire,  free  the  grate  from  ashes. 
To  do  this,  put  on  covers,  close  front  and  back  dampers, 
and  open  oven-damper ;  turn  grate,  and  ashes  will  fall  into 
the  ash  receiver.  If  these  rules  are  not  followed,  ashes  will 
fly  over  the  room.  Turn  grate  back  into  place,  remove  the 
covers  over  fire-box,  and  cover  grate  with  pieces  of  paper 
(twisted  in  centre  and  left  loose  at  the  ends).  Cover  paper 
with  small  sticks,  or  pieces  of  pine  wood,  being  sure  that 
the  wood  reaches  the  ends  of  fire-box,  and  so  arranged  that 
it  will  admit  air.    Over  pine  wood  arrange  hard  woodj 


18  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

then  sprinkle  with  two  shovelfuls  of  coal.  Put  on  covers, 
open  closed  dampers,  strike  a  match,  —  sufficient  friction  is 
formed  to  burn  the  phosphorus,  this  in  turn  lights  the  sul- 
phur, and  the  sulphur  the  wood,  —  then  apply  the  lighted 
match  under  the  grate,   and  you  have  a  fire. 

Now  blacken  the  stove.  Begin  at  front  of  range,  and 
work  towards  the  back;  as  the  iron  heats,  a  good  polish 
may  be  obtained.  When  the  wood  is  thoroughly  kindled, 
add  more  coal.  A  blue  flame  will  soon  appear,  which  is  the 
gas  (CO)  in  the  coal  burning  to  carbon  dioxide  (CO2),  when 
the  blue  flame  changes  to  a  white  flame ;  then  the  oven- 
damper  should  be  closed.  In  a  few  moments  the  front 
damper  may  be  nearly  closed,  leaving  space  to  admit  suffi- 
cient oxygen  to  feed  the  fire.  It  is  sometimes  forgotten  that 
oxygen  is  necessary  to  keep  a  fire  burning.  As  soon  as  the 
coal  is  well  ignited,  half  close  the  chimney-damper,  unless 
the  draft  be  very  poor. 

Never  allow  the  fire-box  to  be  more  than  three-fourths 
filled.  When  full,  the  draft  is  checked,  a  larger  amount  of 
fuel  is  consumed,  and  much  heat  is  lost.  This  is  a  point 
that  should  be  impressed  on  the  mind  of  the  cook. 

Ashes  must  be  removed  and  sifted  daily ;  pick  over  and 
save  good  coals,  —  which  are  known  as  cinders,  —  throwing 
out  useless  pieces,  known  as  clinkers. 

If  a  fire  is  used  constantly  during  the  day,  replenish  coal 
frequently,  but  in  small  quantities.  If  for  any  length  of 
time  the  fire  is  not  needed,  open  check,  the  dampers  being 
closed ;  when  again  wanted  for  use,  close  check,  open  front 
damper,  and  with  a  poker  rake  out  ashes  from  under  fire, 
and  wait  for  fire  to  burn  brightly  before  adding  new  coal. 

Coal  when  red  hot  has  parted  with  most  of  its  heat. 
Some  refuse  to  believe  this,  and  insist  upon  keeping  dampers 
open  until  most  of  the  heat  has  escaped  into  the  chimney. 

To  keep  a  fire  over  night,  remove  the  ashes  from  under  the 
fire,  put  on  enough  coal  to  fill  the  box,  close  the  dampers, 
and  lift  the  back  covers  enough  to  admit  air.  This  is  better 
than  lifting  the  covers  over  the  fire-box  and  prevents  poison- 
ous gases  entering  the  room. 


WAYS  OF  COOKING  19 


WAYS  OF  cooKnra 


The  principal  ways  of  cooking  are  boiling,  broiling, 
stewing,  roasting,  baking,  frying,  sauteing,  braising,  and 
fricasseeing. 

Boiling  is  cooking  in  boiling  water.  Solid  food  so  cooked 
is  called  boiled  food,  though  literally  this  expression  is  in- 
correct.    Examples :  boiled  eggs,  potatoes,  mutton,  etc. 

Water  boils  at  212°  F.  (sea  level),  and  simmers  at  185°  F. 
Slowly  boiling  water  has  the  same  temperature  as  rapidly 
boiling  water,  consequently  is  able  to  do  the  same  work,  — 
a  fact  often  forgotten  by  the  cook,  who  is  too  apt "  to  wood" 
the  fire  that  water  may  boil  vigorously. 

Watery  vapor  and  steam  pass  off  from  boiling  water. 
Steam  is  invisible  ;  watery  vapor  is  visible,  and  is  often  mis- 
called steam.  Cooking  utensils  commonly  used  permit  the 
escape  of  watery  vapor  and  steam  ;  thereby  much  heat  is  lost 
if  food  is  cooked  in  rapidly  boiling  water. 

Water  is  boiled  for  two  purposes :  first,  cooking  of  itself 
to  destroy  organic  impurities ;  second,  for  cooking  foods. 
Boiling  water  toughens  and  hardens  albumen  in  eggs ; 
toughens  fibrin  and  dissolves  tissues  in  meat ;  bursts  starch- 
grains  and  softens  cellulose  in  cereals  and  vegetables.  Milk 
should  never  be  allowed  to  boil.  At  boUing  temperature 
(214°  F.)  the  casein  is  slightly  hardened,  and  the  fat  is  ren- 
dered more  diflScult  of  digestion.  Milk  heated  over  boiling 
water,  as  in  a  double  boiler,  is  called  scalded  milTc,  and 
reaches  a  temperature  of  196°  F.  When  foods  are  cooked 
over  hot  water  the  process  is  called  steaming. 

Stewing  is  cooking  in  a  small  amount  of  hot  water  for  a 
long  time  at  low  temperature ;  it  is  the  most  economical  way 
of  cooking  meats,  as  all  nutriment  is  retained,  and  the 
ordinary  way  of  cooking  cheaper  cuts.  Thus  fibre  and  con- 
nective tissues  are  softened,  and  the  whole  is  made  tender 
and  palatable. 

Broiling  is  cooking  over  or  in  front  of  a  clear  fire.  The 
food  to  be  cooked  is  usually  placed  in  a  greased  broiler  or  on 
a.  gridiron  held  near  the  coals,  turned  often  at  first  to  sear 


20  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

the  outside,  —  thus  preventing  escape  of  inner  juices, — 
afterwards  turned  occasionally.  Tender  meats  and  fish  may 
be  cooked  in  this  way.  The  flavor  obtained  by  broiling  is 
particularly  fine  ;  there  is,  however,  a  greater  loss  of  weight 
in  this  than  in  any  other  way  of  cooking,  as  the  food  thus 
cooked  is  exposed  to  free  circulation  of  air.  When  coal  is 
not  used,  or  a  fire  is  not  in  condition  for  broiling,  a  plan  for 
pan  broiling  has  been  adopted.  This  is  done  by  placing  food 
to  be  cooked  in  a  hissing  hot  frying-pan,  turning  often  as  in 
broiling. 

Roasting  is  cooking  before  a  clear  fire,  with  a  reflector  to 
concentrate  the  heat.  Heat  is  applied  in  the  same  way  as 
for  broiling,  the  difference  being  that  the  meat  for  roasting 
is  placed  on  a  spit  and  allowed  to  revolve,  thicker  pieces 
alway  being  employed.  Tin-kitchens  are  now  but  seldom 
used.  Meats  cooked  in  a  range  oven,  though  really  baked, 
are  said  to  be  roasted.  Meats  so  cooked  are  pleasing  to  the 
sight  and  agreeable  to  the  palate,  although,  according  to 
Edward  Atkinson,  not  so  easily  digested  as  when  cooked  at 
a  lower  temperature  in  the  Aladdin  oven. 

Baking  is  cooking  in  a  range  oven. 

Frying  is  cooking  by  means  of  immersion  in  deep  fat 
rjtised  to  a  temperature  of  850°  to  400°  F.  For  frying  pur- 
poses olive  oil,  lard,  beef  drippings,  cottolene,  coto  suet,  and 
cocoanut  butter  are  used.  A  combination  of  two- thirds  lard 
and  one-third  beef  suet  (tried  out  and  clarified)  is  better  than 
lard  alone.  Cottolene,  coto  suet,  and  cocoanut  butter  are 
economical,  inasmuch  as  they  may  be  heated  to  a  high  tem- 
perature without  discoloring,  therefore  may  be  used  for  a 
larger  number  of  fryings.  Cod  fat  obtained  from  beef  is 
often  used  by  chefs  for  frying. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  in  frying  that  fat  is  of  the 
right  temperature;  otherwise  food  so  cooked  will  absorb 
fat. 

Nearly  all  foods  which  do  not  contain  eggs  are  dipped 
in  flour  or  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  before  frying.  The  in- 
tense heat  of  fat  hardens  the  albumen,  thus  forming  a  coating 
which  prevents  food  from  "  soaking  fat." 

When  meat  or  fish  is  to  be  fried,  it  should  be  kept  in  a 


WAYS  OP  COOKING  21 

warm  room  for  some  time  previous  to  cooking,  and  wiped 
as  dry  as  possible.  If  cold,  it  decreases  the  temperature 
of  the  fat  to  such  extent  that  a  coating  is  not  formed 
quickly  enough  to  prevent  fat  from  penetrating  the  food. 
The  ebullition  of  fat  is  due  to  water  found  in  food  to  be 
cooked. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  that  too  much  is  not  put  into 
the  fat  at  one  time,  not  only  because  it  lowers  the  tem- 
perature of  the  fat,  but  because  it  causes  it  to  bubble  and 
go  over  the  sides  of  the  kettle.  It  is  not  fat  that  boils,  but 
water  which  fat  has  received  from  food. 

All  fried  food  on  removal  from  fat  should  be  drained  on 
brown  paper. 

Rules  for  Testing  Pat  for  Frying.  1.  When  the  fat 
begins  to  smoke,  drop  in  an  inch  cube  of  bread  from  soft 
part  of  loaf,  and  if  in  forty  seconds  it  is  golden  brown,  the 
fat  is  then  of  right  temperature  for  frying  any  cooked 
mixture. 

2.  Use  same  test  for  uncooked  mixtures,  allowing  one 
minute  for  bread  to  brown. 

Many  kinds  of  food  may  be  fried  in  the  same  fat;  new 
fat  should  be  used  for  batter  and  dough  mixtures,  potatoes, 
and  fishballs  ;  after  these,  fish,  meat,  and  croquettes.  Fat 
should  be  frequently  clarified. 

To  Clarify  Fat.  Melt  fat,  add  raw  potato  cut  in  quarter- 
inch  slices,  and  allow  fat  to  heat  gradually  ;  when  fat  ceases 
to  bubble  and  potatoes  are  well  browned,  strain  through 
double  cheesecloth,  placed  over  wire  strainer,  into  a  pan. 
The  potato  absorbs  any  odors  or  gases,  and  collects  to  itself 
some  of  the  sediment,  remainder  settling  to  bottom  of 
kettle. 

When  small  amount  of  fat  is  to  be  clarified,  add  to  cold 
fat  boiling  water,  stir  vigorously,  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  the 
fat  will  form  a  cake  on  top,  which  may  be  easily  removed ; 
on  bottom  of  the  cake  will  be  found  sediment,  which  may  be 
readily  scraped  off  with  a  knife. 

Remnants  of  fat,  either  cooked  or  uncooked,  should  be 
saved  and  tried  out,  and  when  necessary  clarified. 

Fat  from  beef,  poultry,  chicken,  and  pork,  may  be  used 


22  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

for  shortening  or  frying  purposes;  fat  from  mutton  and 
smoked  meats  may  be  used  for  making  hard  and  soft  soap  ; 
fat  removed  from  soup  stock,  the  water  in  which  corned 
beef  has  been  cooked,  and  drippings  from  roast  beef,  may 
be  tried  out,  clarified,  and  used  for  shortening  or  frying 
purposes. 

To  Try  out  Pat.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  melt  in  top  of 
a  double  boiler;  in  this  way  it  will  require  less  watching 
than  if  placed  in  kettle  on  the  back  of  range.  Leaf  lard 
is  tried  out  in  the  same  way;  in  cutting  the  leaf,  remove 
membrane.  After  straining  lard,  that  which  remains  may 
be  salted,  pressed,  and  eaten  as  a  relish,  and  is  called 
scraps. 

Sautding  is  frying  in  a  small  quantity  of  fat.  Food  so 
cooked  is  much  more  difficult  of  digestion  than  when  fried 
in  deep  fat ;  it  is  impossible  to  cook  in  this  way  without  the 
food  absorbing  fat.  A  frying-pan  or  griddle  is  used;  the 
food  is  cooked  on  one  side,  then  turned,  and  cooked  on 
the  other. 

Braising  is  stewing  and  baking  (meat).  Meat  to  be 
braised  is  frequently  first  sauted  to  prevent  escape  of  much 
juice  in  the  gravy.  The  meat  is  placed  in  a  pan  with  a  small 
quantity  of  stock  or  water,  vegetables  (carrot,  turnip,  celery, 
and  union)  cut  in  pieces,  salt,  pepper,  and  sweet  herbs.  The 
pan  should  have  a  tight-fitting  cover.  Meat  so  prepared 
should  be  cooked  in  an  oven  at  low  uniform  temperature  for 
a  long  time.  This  is  an  economical  way  of  cooking,  and  the 
only  way  besides  stewing  or  boiling  of  making  a  large  piece 
of  tough  meat  palatable  and  digestible. 

Fricasseeing  is  sauteing  and  serving  with  a  sauce.  Ten- 
der meat  is  fricasseed  without  previous  cooking ;  less  tender 
meat  requires  cooking  in  hot  water  before  fricasseeing. 
Although  veal  is  obtained  from  a  young  creature,  it  requires 
long  cooking;  it  is  usually  sauted,  and  then  cooked  in  a 
sauce  at  low  temperature  for  a  long  time. 


WATS   OF  PEBPAEING  FOOD  FOR  COOKING         23 


VAEIOUS  WAYS   OF  PREPARING  FOOD  FOR 
COOKING 

Egging  and  Crumbing.  Use  for  crumbing  dried  bread 
crumbs  -which  have  been  rolled  and  sifted,  or  soft  stale 
bread  broken  in  pieces  and  forced  through  a  colander.  An 
ingenious  machine  on  the  market,  *'  The  Bread  Crumber," 
does  this  work.  Egg  used  for  crumbing  should  be  broken 
into  a  shallow  plate  and  beaten  with  a  silver  fork  to  blend 
yolk  and  white ;  dilute  each  egg  with  two  tablespoons 
water.  The  crumbs  should  be  taken  on  a  board ;  food  to  be 
fried  should  be  first  rolled  in  crumbs  (care  being  taken  that 
all  parts  are  covered  with  crumbs),  then  dipped  in  egg 
mixture  (equal  care  being  taken  to  cover  all  parts),  then 
rolled  in  crumbs  again  ;  after  the  last  crumbing  remove  food 
to  a  place  on  the  board  where  there  are  no  crumbs,  and 
shake  off  some  of  the  outer  ones  which  make  coating  too 
thick.  A  broad-bladed  knife  with  short  handle  —  the  Teller 
khife  —  is  the  most  convenient  utensil  for  lifting  food  to  be 
crumbed  from  egg  mixture.  Small  scallops,  oysters,  and 
crabs  are  more  easily  crumbed  by  putting  crumbs  and  fish 
in  paper  and  shaking  paper  until  the  fish  is  covered  with 
crumbs.  The  object  of  first  crumbing  is  to  dry  the  surface 
that  egg  may  cling  to  it ;  and  where  a  thin  coating  is  desired 
flour  is  often  used  in  place  of  crumbs. 

Larding  is  introducing  small  pieces  of  fat  salt  pork  or 
bacon  through  the  surface  of  uncooked  meat.  The  flavor 
of  lean  and  dry  meat  is  much  improved  by  larding ;  tender- 
loin of  beef  (fillet),  grouse,  partridge,  pigeon,  and  liver  are 
often  prepared  in  this  way.  Pig  pork  being  firm,  is  best 
for  larding.  Pork  should  be  kept  in  a  cold  place  that  it  may 
be  well  chilled.  Remove  rind  and  use  the  part  of  pork 
which  lies  between  rind  and  vein.  With  sharp  knife  (which 
is  sure  to  make  a  clean  cut)  remove  slices  a  little  less  than 
one-fourth  inch  thick;  cut  the  slices  into  strips  a  little  less 
than  one-fourth  inch  wide ;  these  strips  should  be  two  and 
one-fourth  inches  long,  and  are  called  lardoons,  Lardoons 
for  small  birds  —  quail,  for  example  —  should  be  cut  smaller 


24  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  not  quite  so  long.  To  lard,  insert  one  end  of  lardoon 
into  larding-needle,  hold  needle  firmly,  and  with  pointed  end 
take  up  a  stitch  one-third  inch  deep  and  three-fourths  inch 
wide ;  draw  needle  through,  care  being  taken  that  lardoon  is 
left  in  meat  and  its  ends  project  to  equal  lengths.  Arrange 
lardoons  in  parallel  rows,  one  inch  apart,  stitches  in  the 
alternate  rows  being  directly  underneath  each  other.  Lard 
the  upper  surface  of  cuts  of  meat  with  the  grain,  never 
across  it.  In  birds,  insert  lardoons  at  right  angles  to  breast- 
bone on  either  side.  When  large  lardoons  are  forced 
through  meat  from  surface  to  surface,  the  process  is  called 
daubing.  Example :  Beef  a  la  mode.  Thin  slices  of  fat 
salt  pork  placed  over  meat  may  be  substituted  for  larding, 
but  flavor  is  not  the  same  as  when  pork  is  drawn  through 
flesh,  and  the  dish  is  far  less  sightly. 

Boning  is  removing  bones  from  meat  or  fish,  leaving  the 
flesh  nearly  in  its  original  shape.  For  boning,  a  small 
sharp  knife  with  pointed  blade  is  essential.  Legs  of  mutton 
and  veal  and  loins  of  beef  may  be  ordered  boned  at  market, 
no  extra  charge  being  made. 

Whoever  wishes  to  learn  how  to  bone  should  first  be 
taught  boning  of  a  small  bird ;  when  this  is  accomplished, 
larger  birds,  chickens,  and  turkeys  may  easily  be  done, 
the  processes  varying  but  little.  In  large  birds  tendons 
are  drawn  from  legs,  and  the  wings  are  left  on  and  boned. 

How   to   Bone   a   Bird 

In  buying  birds  for  boning,  select  those  which  have  been 
fresh  killed,  dry  picked,  and  not  drawn.  Singe,  remove 
pinfeathers,  head,  and  feet,  and  cut  off  wings  close  to  body 
in  small  birds.     Lay  bird  on  a  board,  breast  down. 

Begin  at  neck  and  with  sharp  knife  cut  through  the 
skin  the  entire  length  of  body.  Scrape  the  flesh  from  back- 
bone until  end  of  one  shoulder-blade  is  found ;  scrape  flesh 
from  shoulder-blade  and  continue  around  wing-joint,  cutting 
through  tendinous  portions  which  are  encountered;  then 
bone  other  side.  Scrape  skin  from  backbone  the  entire 
length  of  body,  working  across  the  ribs.  Free  wishbone 
and  collar-bones,  at  same  time  removing  crop  and  windpipe ; 


HOW  TO  MEASURE  25 

continue  down  breastbone,  particular  care  being  taken  not 
to  break  the  skin  as  it  lies  very  near  bone,  or  to  cut  the 
delicate  membranes  which  enclose  entrails.  Scrape  flesh 
from  second  joints  and  drumsticks,  laying  it  back  and 
drawing  off  as  a  glove  may  be  drawn  from  the  hand. 
Withdraw  carcass  and  put  flesh  back  in  its  original  shape. 
In  large  birds  where  wings  are  boned,  scrape  flesh  to  middle 
joint,  where  bone  should  be  broken,  leaving  bone  at  tip  end 
to  assist  in  preserving  shape. 

HoTv  to  Measure 

Correct  measurements  are  absolutely  necessary  to  insure 
the  best  results.  Good  judgment,  with  experience,  has 
taught  some  to  measure  by  sight;  but  the  majority  need 
definite  guides. 

Tin,  granite-ware,  and  glass  measuring-cups,  divided  in 
quarters  or  thirds,  holding  one  half-pint,  and  tea  and  table 
spoons  of  regulation  sizes, — which  may  be  bought  at  any 
store  where  kitchen  furnishings  are  sold,  —  and  a  case  knife, 
are  essentials  for  correct  measurement.  Mixing-spoons, 
which  are  little  larger  than  tablespoons,  should  not  be  con- 
founded with  the  latter. 

Measuring  Ingredients.  Flour,  meal,  powdered  and  con- 
fectioners' sugar,  and  soda  should  be  sifted  before  measur- 
ing. Mustard  and  baking-powder,  from  standing  in  boxes, 
settle,  therefore  should  be  stirred  to  lighten;  salt  frequently 
lumps,  and  these  lumps  should  be  broken.  A  cupful  is  meas- 
ured level.  To  measure  a  cupful,  put  in  the  ingredient  by 
spoonfuls  or  from  a  scoop,  round  slightly,  and  level  with 
a  case  knife,  care  being  taken  not  to  shake  the  cup.  A 
tablespoonful  is  measured  level.  A  teaspoonful  is  measured 
level. 

To  measure  tea  or  table  spoonfuls,  dip  the  spoon  in  the 
ingredient,  fill,  lift,  and  level  with  a  knife,  the  sharp  edge 
of  knife  being  toward  tip  of  spoon.  Divide  with  knife 
lengthwise  of  spoon,  for  a  half-spoonful;  divide  halves 
crosswise  for  quarters,  and  quarters  crosswise  for  eighths. 
Less  than  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoonful  ia  considered  a  few 
grains. 


26  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Measuring  Liquids.  A  cupful  of  liquid  is  all  the  cup  will 
hold. 

A  tea  or  table  spoonful  is  all  the  spoon  will  hold. 

Measuring  Butter,  Lard,  etc.  To  measure  butter,  lard, 
and  other  solid  fats,  pack  solidly  into  cup  or  spoon,  and 
level  with  a  knife. 

When  dry  ingredients,  liquids,  and  fats  are  called  for 
in  the  same  recipe,  measure  in  the  order  given,  thereby 
using  but  one  cup. 

Hq-w  to  Combine  Ingredients 

Next  to  measuring  comes  care  in  combining,  —  a  fact 
not  always  recognized  by  the  inexperienced.  Three  ways 
are  considered,  —  stirring,  beating,  and  cutting  and  folding. 

To  stir,  mix  by  using  circular  motion,  widening  the  circles 
until  all  is  blended.  Stirring  is  the  motion  ordinarily  em- 
ployed in  all  cookery,  alone  or  in  combination  with  beating. 

To  beat,  turn  ingredient  or  ingredients  over  and  over, 
continually  bringing  the  under  part  to  the  surface,  thus 
allowing  the  utensil  used  for  beating  to  be  constantly 
brought  in  contact  with  bottom  of  the  dish  and  throughout 
the  mixture. 

To  out  and  fold,  introduce  one  ingredient  into  another 
ingredient  or  mixture  by  two  motions :  with  a  spoon,  a 
repeated  vertical  downward  motion,  known  as  cutting;  and 
a  turning  over  and  over  of  mixture,  allowing  bowl  of  spoon 
each  time  to  come  in  contact  with  bottom  of  dish,  is 
called  folding.  These  repeated  motions  are  alternated  until 
thorough  blending  is  accomplished. 

By  stirring,  ingredients  are  mixed;  by  beating,  a  large 
amount  of  air  is  inclosed  ;  by  cutting  and  folding,  air  already 
introduced  is  prevented  from  escaping. 

"Ways    of   Preserving 

1.  By  Freezing.  Foods  which  spoil  readily  are  frozen 
for  transportation,  and  must  be  kept  packed  in  ice  until 
used.     Examples  :  Fish  and  poultry. 

2.  By  Refrigeration.  Foods  so  preserved  are  kept  in 
cold   storage.     The   cooling  is  accomplished  by  means  of 


TABLE  OF  MEASURES   AND   WEIGHTS  27 

ice,  or  by  a  machine  where  compressed  gas  is  cooled  and 
then  permitted  to  expand.  Examples :  meat,  milk,  butter, 
eggs,  etc. 

3.  By  Canning.  Which  is  preserving  in  air-tight  glass 
jars,  or  tin  cans  hermetically  sealed.  When  fruit  is  canned, 
sugar  is  usually  added. 

4.  By  Sugar.  Examples:  fruit-juices  and  condensed 
milk. 

5.  By  Exclusion  of  Air.  Foods  are  preserved  by  ex- 
clusion of  air  in  other  ways  than  canning.  Examples: 
grapes  in  bran,  eggs  in  lime  water,  etc. 

6.  By  Drying.  Drying  consists  in  evaporation  of  nearly 
all  moisture,  and  is  generally  combined  with  salting,  except 
in  vegetables  and  fruits. 

7.  By  Evaporation.  There  are  examples  where  con- 
siderable moisture  remains,  though  much  is  driven  off. 
Example :  beef  extract. 

8.  By  Salting.  There  are  two  kinds  of  salting,  —  dry, 
and  corning  or  salting  in  brine.  Examples :  salt  codfish, 
beef,  pork,  tripe,  etc. 

9.  By  Smoking.  Some  foods,  after  being  salted,  are 
hung  in  a  closed  room  for  several  hours,  where  hickory 
wood  is  allowed  to  smother.  Examples:  ham,  beef,  and 
fish. 

10.  By  Pickling.  Vinegar,  to  which  salt  is  added,  and 
sometimes  sugar  and  spices,  is  scalded;  and  cucumbers, 
onions,  and  various  kinds  of  fruit  are  allowed  to  remain 
in  it. 

11.  By  Oil.     Examples  :  sardines,  anchovies,  etc. 

12.  By  Antiseptics.  The  least  wholesonie  way  is  by 
the  use  of  antiseptics.  Borax  and  salicylic  acid,  when 
employed,  should  be  used  sparingly. 

TABLE  OF  MEASURES   AND  WEIGHTS 

2    cups  butter  (packed  solidly)      .     .     .  ' .     =1  pound 

4       "    flour  (pastry) ♦  .     .     =  1      " 

2       "    granulated  sugar =1      " 

2%  "    powdered       "  =1      '* 

Z%  "    confectioners'  sugar =1      " 

2%  *•    browu  sugar   .,....».=!      ** 


28  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

2%  «  oatmeal =1  « 

4^  "  rolled  oats =1  « 

2^  "  granulated  corn  meal ==1  " 

43^  «  rye  meal ,     .  =  1  « 

1%  "  rice =1  « 

43^  "  Graham  flour =1  « 

3%  "  entire  wheat  flour =1  « 

4)^  "  coffee =1  <« 

2  "  finely  chopped  meat =1  *« 

9  large  eggs =  1  pound 

1  square  Baker's  chocolate ,     =  1  ounce 

y^  cup  almonds  blanched  and  cho[)ped    .     .     =  1       " 
A  few  grains  is  less  than  one-efglith  teaspoon. 

3  teaspoons =1  tablespoon 

16  tablespoons =1  cup 

2  tablespoons  butter =1  ounce « 

4  tablespoons  flour =1  ounce 

TIME-TABLES  EOR   COOKING 

Boiling 
AsTiCLBS  Time 

Hours  Minutes 

Coffee 1  to    3 

Eggs,  soft  cooked 6to8 

"     hard     " 35  to  45 

Mutton,  leg 2  to  3 

Ham,  weight  12  to  14  lbs. 4  to  5 

Corned  Beef  or  Tongue 3  to  4 

Turkey,  weight  9  lbs 2  to  3 

Fowl,  "      4  to  5  lbs 2  to  3 

Chicken,     "       3  lbs 1  to  li^ 

Lobster       . 25  to  30 

Cod  and  Haddock,  weight  3  to  5  lbs.    . 20  to  30 

Halibut,  thick  piece,    "      2  to  3  lbs 30 

Bluefish  and  Bass,       "      4  to  5  lbs 40  to  45 

Salmon,  weight  2  to  3  lbs 30  to  35 

Small  Fish 6  to  10 

Potatoes,  white 20  to  30 

*'         sweet   .     .     .' 15  to  25 

Asparagus 20  to  30 

Peas * 20  to  60 

String  Beans 1  to  2% 

Lima  and  other  Shell  Beans  ......    1  to  1)^ 


TIME-TABLES  FOR  COOKING  29 

Articles  Time 

Hours  Minutes 

Beets,  young 45 

"      old 3  to  4 

Cabbage 35  to  60 

Oyster  Plant 45  to  60 

Turnips 30  to  45 

Onions o     .     .  45  to  60 

Parsnips 30  to  45 

Spinach o     .     .  25  to  30 

Green  Com 12  to  20 

Cauliflower 20  to  25 

Brussels  Sprouts 15  to  20 

Tomatoes,  stewed    . 15  to  20 

Rice 20  to  25 

Macaroni 20  to  30 

Broiling 

Steak,  one  inch  thick 4  to    6 

"      one  and  one-half  inches  thick 8  to  10 

Lamb  or  Mutton  Chops 6  to    8 

"           "           "      in  paper  cases 10 

Quails  or  Squabs 8 

"    '      "        in  paper  cases ,     .     .  10  to  12 

Chickens 20 

Shad,  Bluefish,  and  Whitefish 15  to  20 

Slices  of  Fish,  Halibut,  Salmon,  and  Swordfish  .     .     .     .  12  to  15 

Small,  thin  Fish ,     .     .  5  to    8 

Liver  and  Tripe 4  to    5 

Baking 

Bread  (whit6  loaf) 45  to  60 

"     (Graham  loaf) 35  to  45 

"     (sticks) 10  to  15 

Biscuits  or  Rolls  (raised) 12  to  20 

"        (baking-powder) .  12  to  15 

Gems 25  to  30 

Muffins  (raised) 30 

"       (baking-powder) 20  to  25 

Corn  Cake  (thin) 15  to  20 

'*          (thick) 30  to  35 

Gingerbread 20  to  30 

Cookies 6  to  10 

Sponge  Cake 45  to  60 


30  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Articles  Time 

Hours  Minutes 

Cake  (layer) 20  to  30 

"     (loaf)      .     .     .     . 40  to  60 

*'     (pound) 11^  to  1>^ 

♦^     (fruit) IK  to  2 

*'     (wedding) 3 

or  steam  2  hours  and  bake  1}^ 

Baked  batter  puddings 35  to  45 

Bread  puddings 1 

Tapioca  or  Rice  Pudding 1 

Rice  Pudding  (poor  man's) 2     to  3 

Indian     "  2      to  3 

Plum       "  2      to  3 

Custard,"  30  to  45 

"       (baked  in  cups) 20  to  25 

Pies , 30  to  50 

Tarts 15  to  20 

Patties 20  to  25 

Vol-au-vent 50  to  60 

Cheese  Straws 8  to  10 

Scalloped  Oysters 25  to  30 

Scalloped  dishes  of  cooked  mixtures    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     12  to  15 

Baked  Beans 6      to  8 

Braised  Beef 3)^  to  4)^ 

Beef,  sirloin  or  rib,  rare,  weight  5  lbs 1  5 

*'        "         "  "  "     10   "        ....    1  30 

"        "         '*        well  done,  weight  5  lbs.       .     .    1  20 

n        ii        n  u  "     10   "...    1  60 

Beef,  rump,  rare,  weight  10  lbs 1  35 

"         "      well  done,  weight  10  lbs 1  55 

"     (fillet) 20  to  30 

Mutton  (saddle) li^  to  li^ 

Lamb  (leg)     . li^  to  1^ 

*'      (forequarter) 1      to  13^ 

"      (chops)  in  paper  cases 15  to  20 

Veal  (leg) 3)^  to  4 

"    (loin) 2      to  3 

Pork  (chine  or  sparerib)    ......     3      to  S}^ 

Chicken,  weight  3  to  4  lbs 1      to  1>^ 

Turkey,  weight  9  lbs 2>^  to  3 

Goose,  weight  9  lbs 2 

Duck  (domestic) 1     to  1>^ 

"     (wild) 20  to  30 


TIME-TABLES  FOR  COOKING  31 

Articles  Time 

Hoars  Minutes 

Grouse 25  to  30 

Partridge    .....  ^ 45  to  50 

Pigeons  (potted) 2 

Fish  (thick),  weight  3  to  4  lbs 45  to  60 

*'    (small) 20  to  30 

Prying 

MufRns,  Fritters,  and  Doughnuts 3  to  5 

Croquettes  and  Fishballs 1 

Potatoes,  raw 4  to  8 

Breaded  Chops 5  to  8 

Fillets  of  Fish , 4  to  6 

Smelts,  Trout,  and  other  small  Fish 3  to  5 

Note.  — Length  of  time  for  cooking  fish  and  meat  does  not  depend  so  much 
on  the  number  of  pounds  to  be  cooked  as  the  extent  of  surface  exposed  to  the 
heat. 


USE  OF  RECIPES 

Dishes  prepared  from  my  recipes   are  intended  for  the 
most  part  to  serve  six  persons. 


82  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  III 

BEVERAGES 

ABE¥ERAGE  is  any  drink.  Water  is  the  beverage 
provided  for  man  by  Nature.  Water  is  an  essential 
to  life.  All  beverages  contain  a  large  percentage  of  water, 
therefore  their  uses  should  be  considered :  — 

I.   To  quench  thirst. 
II.    To  intrvdiice  water  into  the  circulatory  system. 

III.  To  regulate  body  temperature. 

IV.  To  assist  in  carrying  off  waste. 
V.    To  nourish. 

VI.    To  stimulate  the  nervous  system  and  various  organs, 
VII.    For  medicinal  purposes 

Freshly  boiled  water  should  be  used  for  making  hot  he^ 
erages ;  freshly  drawn  water  for  making  cold  beverages. 


TEA 


Tea  is  used  by  more  than  one-half  the  human  race; 
and,  although  the  United  States  is  not  a  tea-drinking 
country,  one  and  one-half  pounds  are  consumed  per  capita 
per  annum. 

All  tea  is  grown  from  one  species  of  shrub,  Thea^  the 
leaves  of  which  constitute  the  tea  of  commerce.  Climate, 
elevation,  soil,  cultivation,  and  care  in  picking  and  cur- 
ing all  go  to  make  up  the  differences.  First-quality  tea 
is  made  from  young,  whole  leaves.  Two  kinds  of  tea  are 
considered :  — ■ 

Black  tea^  made 'from  leaves  which  have  been  allowed 
to  ferment  before  curing. 

Green  tea,  made  from  uufermented  leaves  artificially 
colored. 


TEA  S3 

The  best  black  tea  comes  from  India  and  Ceylon.  Some 
familiar  brands  are  Oolong,  Formosa,  English  Breakfast, 
Orange  Pekoe,  and  Flowery  Pekoe.  The  last  two  named, 
often  employed  at  the  "  five  o'clock  tea,"  command  high 
prices;  they  are  made  from  the  youngest  leaves.  Orange 
Pekoe  is  scented  with  orange  leaves.  The  best  green  tea 
comes  from  Japan.  Some  familiar  brands  are  Hyson, 
Japan,  and  Gunpowder. 

From  analysis,  it  has  been  found  that  tea  is  rich  in 
proteid,  but  taken  as  an  infusion  acts  as  a  stimulant 
rather  than  as  a  nutrient.  The  nutriment  is  gained  from 
sugar  and  milk  served  with  it.  The  stimulating  property  of 
tea  is  due  to  the  alkaloid,  theine,  together  with  an  essential 
oil;  it  contains  an  astringent,  tannin.  Black  tea  contains 
less  theine,  essential  oil,  and  tannin  tha,n  green  tea.  The 
tannic  acid,  developed  from  the  tannin  by  ii^fusion,  injures 
the  coating  of  the  stomach. 

Although  tea  is  not  a  substitute  for  food,  it  appears  so 
for  a  considerable  period  of  time,  as  its  stimulating  effect 
is  immediate.  It  is  certain  that  less  food  is  required  where 
much  tea  is  taken,  for  by  its  use  there  is  less  wear  of  the 
tissues,  consequently  need  of  repair.  When  taken  to  excess, 
it  so  acts  on  the  nervous  system  as  to  produce  sleeplessness 
or  insomnia,  and  finally  makes  a  complete  wreck  of  its 
victim.  Taken  in  moderation,  it  acts  as  a  mild  stimulant, 
and  ingests  a  considerable  amount  of  water  into  the  system ; 
it  heats  the  body  in  winter,  and  cools  the  body  in  summer. 
Children  should  never  be  allowed  to  drink  tea,  and  it  had 
better  be  avoided  by  the  young,  while  it  may  be  indulged  in 
by  the  aged,  as  it  proves  a  valuable  stimulant  as  the  func- 
tional activities  of  the  stomach  become  weakened. 

Freshly  boiled  water  should  be  used  for  making  tea. 
Boiled,  because  below  the  boiling-point  the  stimulating  prop- 
erty, theine,  would  not  be  extracted.  Freshly  boiled,  because 
long  cooking  renders  it  flat  and  insipid  to  taste  on  account 
of  escape  of  its  atmospheric  gases.  Tea  should  always  be 
infused,  never  boiled.  Long  steeping  destroys  the  delicate 
flavor  by  developing  a  larger  amount  of  tannic  acid. 

S 


34    .  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

HoTAT  to  Make  Tea 
3  teaspoons  tea  2  cups  boiling  water 

Scald  an  earthern  or  china  teapot. 

Put  in  tea,  and  pour  on  boiling  water.  Let  stand  on 
back  of  range  or  in  a  warm  place  five  minutes.  Strain 
and  serve  immediately,  with  or  without  sugar  and  milk. 
Avoid  second  steeping  of  leaves  with  addition  of  a  few 
fresh  ones.  If  this  is  done,  so  large  an  amount  of  tannin  is 
extracted  that  various  ills  are  apt  to  follow. 

Five  o'clock  Tea 

When  tea  is  made  in  dining  or  drawing  room,  a  "  Five 
o'clock  Tea-kettle"  (Samovar),  and  tea-ball  or  teapot  are 
used. 

Russian  Tea 

Follow  recipe  for  making  tea.  Russian  Tea  may  be 
served  hot  or  cold,  but  always  without  milk.  A  thin  slice 
of  lemon,  from  which  seeds  have  been  removed,  or  a  few 
drops  of  lemon-juice,  is  allowed  for  each  cup.  Sugar  is 
added  according  to  taste.  In  Russia  a  preserved  straw- 
berry to  each  cup  is  considered  an  improvement.  We 
imitate  our  Russian  friends  by  garnishing  with  a  candied 
cherry. 

Do  John's  Tea 

Follow  recipe  for  making  tea  and  serve  hot,  allowing 
three  whole  cloves  to  each  cup.  Sugar  is  added  according 
to  taste. 

Iced  Tea 
4  teaspoons  tea  2  cups  boiling  water 

Follow  recipe  for  making  tea.  Strain  into  glasses  one- 
third  full  of  cracked  ice.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  allow  one 
slice  lemon  to  each  glass  tea.  The  flavor  is  much  finer  by 
chilling  the  infusion  quickly. 

Wellesley  Tea 

Make  same  as  Iced  Tea,  having  three  crushed  mint  leaves 
in  each  glass  into  which  the  hot  infusion  is  strained. 


Five  o'Clock  Tea  Service.  —  Page  34- 


Chocolate  Service.  —  Page  J^l. 


Coffee  Percolators  and  Pot.  —  Page  38. 


After-Dinner  Coffee  Service.  —  Page  38. 


COFFEE  85 


COFFEE 


The  coffee-tree  is  native  to  Abyssinia,  but  is  now  grown 
in  all  tropical  countries.  It  belongs  to  the 'genus  Qoffea, 
of  which  there  are  about  twenty-two  species.  The  seeds 
of  berries  of  coffee-trees  constitute  the  coffee  of  commerce. 
Each  berry  contains  two  seeds,  with  exception  of  maleberry, 
which  is  a  single  round  seed.  In  their  natural  state  they  are 
almost  tasteless ;  therefore  color,  shape,  and  size  determine 
value.  Formerly,  coffee  was  cured  by  exposure  to  the  sun ; 
but  on  account  of  warm  climate  and  sudden  rainfalls,  coffee 
was  often  injured.  By  the  new  method  coffee  is  washed, 
and  then  dried  by  steam  heat. 

In  coffee  plantations,  trees  are  planted  in  parallel  rows, 
from  six  to  eight  feet  apart,  and  are  pruned  so  as  never  to 
exceed  six  feet  in  height.  Banana-trees  are  often  grown  in 
coffee  plantations,  advantage  being  taken  of  their  outspread- 
ing leaves,  which  protect  coffee- trees  from  direct  rays  of  the 
sun.  Brazil  produces  about  two- thirds  the  coffee  used. 
Central  America,  Java,  and  Arabia  are  also  coffee  centres. 

Tea  comes  to  us  ready  for  use;  coffee  needs  roasting. 
In  process  of  roasting  the  seeds  increase  in  size,  but  lose 
fifteen  per  cent  in  weight.  Roasting  is  necessary  to  develop 
the  delightful  aroma  and  flavor.  Java  coffee  is  considered 
finest.  Mocha  commands  a  higher  price,  owing  to  certain 
acidity  and  sparkle,  which  alone  is  not  desirable ;  but  when 
combined  with  Java,  in  proportion  of  two  parts  Java  to  one 
part  Mocha,  the  coffee  best  suited  to  average  taste  is  made. 
Some  people  prefer  Maleberry  Java;  so  especial  care  is 
taken  to  have  maleberries  separated,  that  they  may  be  sold 
for  higher  price.  Old  Government  Java  has  deservedly 
gained  a  good  reputation,  as  it  is  carefully  inspected,  and  its 
sale  controlled  by  Dutch  government.  Strange  as  it  may 
seem  to  the  consumer,  all  coffee  sold  as  Java  does  not  come 
from  the  island  of  Java.  Any  coffee,  wherever  grown,  hav- 
ing same  characteristics  and  flavor,  is  sold  as  Java.  The 
same  is  true  of  other  kinds  of  coffee. 

The  stimulating  property  of  coffee  is  due  to  the  alkaloid 
co^eme,  together  with  an  essential  oil.     Like  tea,  it  contains 


36  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOI^  COOK  BOOK 

an  astringent.  Coffee  is  more  stimulating  than  tea,  although, 
weight  for  weight,  tea  contains  about  twice  as  much  theine 
as  coffee  contains  caffeine.  The  smaller  proportion  of  tea 
used  accounts  for  the  difference.  A  cup  of  coffee  with 
breakfast,  and  a  cup  of  tea  with  supper,  serve  as  a  mild 
stimulant  for  an  adult,  and  form  a  valuable  food  adjunct, 
but  should  never  be  found  in  the  dietary  of  a  child  or  dys- 
peptic. Coffee  taken  in  moderation  quickens  action  of  the 
heart,  acts  directly  upon  the  nervous  system,  and  assists 
gastric  digestion.  Fatigue  of  body  and  mind  are  much  les- 
sened by  moderate  use  of  coffee  ;  severe  exposure  to  cold  can 
be  better  endured  by  the  coffee  drinker.  In  times  of  war, 
coffee  has  proved  more  valuable  than  alcoholic  stimulants  to 
keep  up  the  enduring  power  of  soldiers.  Coffee  acts  as  an 
antidote  for  opium  and  alcoholic  poisoning.  Tea  and  coffee 
are  much  more  readily  absorbed  when  taken  on  an  empty 
stomach ;  therefore  this  should  be  avoided  except  when  used 
for  medicinal  purposes.  Coffee  must  be  taken  in  modera- 
tion ;  its  excessive  use  means  palpitation  of  the  heart,  tremor, 
insomnia,  and  nervous  prostration. 

Coffee  is  often  adulterated  with  chiccory,  beans,  peas,  and 
various  cereals,  which  are  colored,  roasted,  and  ground. 
By  many,  a  small  amount  of  chiccory  is  considered  an  im- 
provement, owing  to  the  bitter  principle  and  volatile  oil 
which  it  contains.  Chiccory  is  void  of  caffeine.  The  addi- 
tion of  chiccory  may  be  detected  by  adding  cold  water  to 
supposed  coffee;  if  chiccory  is  present,  the  liquid  will  be 
quickly  discolored,  and  chiccory  will  sink;  pure  coffee  will 
float^ 

Buying  of  Coffee.  Coffee  should  be  bought  for  family  use 
in  small  quantities,  freshly  roasted  and  ground ;  or,  if  one 
has  a  coffee-mill,  it  may  be  ground  at  home  as  needed. 
After  being  ground,  unless  kept  air  tight,  it  quickly  deterio- 
rates. If  not  bought  in  air-tight  cans,  with  tight-fitting 
cover,  or  glass  jar,  it  should  be  emptied  into  canister  as 
soon  as  brought  from  grocer's. 

Coffee  may  be  served  as  filtered  coffee,  infusion  of  coffee, 
or  decoction  of  coffee.     Commonly  speaking,  boiled  coffee  is 


COFFEE  37 

preferred,  and  is  more  economical  for  the  consumer.  Coffee 
is  ground  fine,  coarse,  and  medium;  and  the  grinding  de- 
pends on  the  way  in  which  it  is  to  be  made.  For  filtered 
coffee  have  it  finely  ground ;  for  boiled,  coarse  or  medium. 

Filtered  Coffee 
{French  or  Percolated) 
1  cup  coffee  (finely  ground)      6  cups  boiling  water 

Various  kinds  of  coffee-pots  are  on  the  market  for  making 
filtered  coffee.  They  all  contain  a  strainer  to  hold  coffee 
without  allowing  grounds  to  mix  with  infusion.  Some  have 
additional  vessel  to  hold  boiling  water,  upon  which  coffee-pot 
may  rest.  Place  coffee  in  strainer,  strainer  in  coffee-pot,  and 
pot  on  the  range.  Add  gradually  boiling  water,  and  allow 
it  to  filter.  Cover  between  additions  of  water.  If  desired 
stronger,  re-filter.     Serve  at  once  with  cut  sugar  and  cream. 

Put  sugar  and  cream  in  cup  before  hot  coffee.  There  will 
be  perceptible  difference  if  cream  is  added  last.  If  cream  is 
not  obtainable,  scalded  milk  may  be  substituted,  or  part 
milk  and  part  cream  may  be  used,  if  a  diluted  cup  of  coffee 
is  desired.  Coffee  percolators  are  preferably  used  when 
coffee  is  made  at  table. 

Boiled  Coffee 

1  cup  coffee  1  cup  cold  water 

1  Qgg  6  cups  boiling  water 

Scald  granite-ware  coffee-pot.  Wash  egg,  break,  and  beat 
slightly.  Dilute  with  one-half  the  cold  water,  add  crushed 
shell,  and  mix  with  coffee.  Turn  into  coffee-pot,  pour  on 
boiling  water,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Place  on  front  of  range, 
and  boil  three  minutes.  If  not  boiled,  coffee  is  cloudy ;  if 
boiled  too  long,  ooo  much  tannic  acid  is  developed.  The 
spout  of  pot  should  be  covered  or  stuffed  with  soft  paper  to 
prevent  escape  of  fragrant  aroma.  Stir  and  pour  some  in  a 
cup  to  be  sure  that  spout  is  free  from  grounds.  Return  to 
coffee-pot  and  repeat.  Add  remaining  cold  water,  which 
perfects  clearing.  Cold  water  being  heavier  than  hot  water 
sinks  to  t'fe^  bottom;  carrying  grounds  with  it     I*l?ice  oa 


38  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

back  of  range  for  ten  minutes,  where  coffee  will  not  boil. 
Serve  at  once.  If  any  is  left  over,  drain  from  grounds,  and 
reserve  for  making  of  jelly  or  other  dessert. 

Egg-shells  may  be  saved  and  used  for  clearing  coffee. 
Three  egg-shells  are  sufficient  to  effect  clearing  where  one 
cup  of  ground  coffee  is  used.  The  shell  performs  no  office 
in  clearing  except  for  the  albumen  which  clings  to  it.  One- 
fourth  cup  cold  water,  salt  fish-skin,  washed,  dried,  and  cut 
in  inch  pieces,  is  used  for  same  purpose. 

Coffee  made  with  an  egg  has  a  rich  flavor  which  egg  alone 

can  give.     Where  strict  economy  is  necessary,  if  great  care 

I  is  taken,  egg  may  be  omitted.     Coffee  so  made  should  be 

served  from  range,  as  much  motion  causes  it  to  become 

roiled. 

Tin  is  an  undesirable  material  for  a  coffee-pot,  as  tannic 
acid  acts  on  such  metal  and  is  apt  to  form  a  poisonous 
compound. 

When  coffee  and  scalded  milk  are  served  in  equal  propor- 
tions, it  is  called  Oq/e  au  lait.  Coffee  served  with  whipped 
cream  is  called  Vienna  Coffee. 

To  Make  a  Small  Pot  of  Coffee.  Mix  one  cup  ground 
coffee  with  one  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  crushed  shell.  To 
one-third  of  this  amount  add  one-third  cup  cold  water. 
Turn  into  a  scalded  coffee-pot,  add  one  pint  boiling  water, 
and  boil  three  minutes.  Let  stand  on  back  of  range  ten 
minutes;  serve.  Keep  remaining  coffee  and  egg  closely 
covered,  in  a  cool  place,  to  use  two  successive  mornings. 

To  Make  Coffee  for  One.  Allow  two  tablespoons  ground 
coffee  to  one  cup  cold  water.  Add  coffee  to  cold  water, 
cover  closely,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
bring  to  a  boiling-point.  If  carefully  poured,  a  clear  cup  of 
coffee  may  be  sers^ed. 

After-Dinner  Coffee 

{Stack  Coffee  f  or  Cafe  Noir) 

For  after-dinner  coffee  use  twice  the  quantity  of  coffee, 
or  half  the  amount  of  liquid,  given  in  previous  recipes.  Fil- 
tered coffee  is  often  preferred  where  milk  or  cream  is  not 


COCOA  AND   CHOCOLATE  39 

used,  as  is  always  the  case  with  black  coffee.    Serve  in  after- 
dinner  coffee  cups,  with  or  without  cut  sugar. 

Coffee  retards  gastric  digestion;  but  where  the  stomach 
has  been  overtaxed  by  a  hearty  meal,  cafe  noir  may  prove 
beneficial,  so  great  are  its  stimulating  effects. 


KOLA 

The  preparations  on  the  market  made  from  the  kola-nut 
have  much  the  same  effect  upon  the  system  as  coffee  and 
chocolate,  inasmuch  as  they  contain  catfeine  and  theobro- 
mine ;  they  are  also  valuable  for  their  diastase  and  a  milk- 
digesting  ferment. 

COCOA  AND  CHOCOLATE 

The  cacao-tree  {Theobroma  cacao)  is  native  to  Mexico. 
Although  successfully  cultivated  between  the  twentieth  par- 
allels of  latitude,  its  industry  is  chiefly  confined  to  Mexico, 
South  America,  and  the  West  Indies.  Cocoa  and  chocolate 
are  both  prepared  from  seeds  of  the  cocoa  bean.  The 
bean  pod  is  from  seven  to  ten  inches  long,  and  three  to  four 
and  one-half  inches  in  diameter.  Each  pod  contains  from 
twenty  to  forty  seeds,  imbedded  in  mucilaginous  material. 
Cocoa  beans  are  dried  previous  to  importation.  Like  coffee, 
they  need  roasting  to  develop  flavor.  After  roasting,  outer 
covering  of  bean  is  removed;  this  covering  makes  what  is 
known  as  cocoa  shells^  which  have  little  nutritive  value. 
The  beans  are  broken  and  sold  as  cocoa  nibs. 

The  various  preparations  of  cocoa  on  the  n^rket  are  made 
from  the  ground  cocoa  nibs,  from  which,  by  means  of  hy- 
draulic pressure,  a  large  amount  of  fat  is  expressed,  leaving 
a  solid  cake.  This  in  turn  is  pulverized  and  mixed  with 
sugar,  and  frequently  a  small  amount  of  corn-starch  or  arrow- 
root. To  some  preparations  cinnamon  or  vanilla  is  added, 
Broma  contains  both  arrowroot  and  cinnamon. 

Chocolate  is  made  from  cocoa  nibs,  but  contains  a  much 
larger  proportion  of  fat  than  cocoa  preparationg.  BiUer, 
Bweet,  or  lUyorod  ohooolato  is  always  eold  in  caJceo. 


40  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

The  fat  obtained  from  cocoa  bean  is  cocoa  butter,  which 
gives  cocoa  its  principal  nutrient. 

Cocoa  and  chocolate  differ  from  tea  and  coffee  inasmuch 
as  they  contain  nutriment  as  well  as  stimulant.  Theobro- 
mine, the  active  principle,  is  almost  identical  with  theine 
and  caffeine  in  its  composition  and  effects. 

Many  people  who  abstain  from  the  use  of  tea  and  coffee 
find  cocoa  indispensable.  Not  only  is  it  valuable  for  its  own 
nutriment,  but  for  the  large  amount  of  milk  added  to  it. 
Cocoa  may  be  well  placed  in  the  dietary  of  a  child  after  his 
third  year,  while  chocolate  should  be  avoided  as  a  beverage, 
but  may  be  given  as  a  confection.  Invalids  and  those  of 
weak  digestion  can  take  cocoa  where  chocolate  would  prove 
too  rich. 

Cocoa  Shells 
1  cup  cocoa  shells  6  cups  boiling  water 

Boil  shells  and  water  three  hours;  as  water  boils  away 
it  will  be  necessary  to  add  more.  Strain,  and  serve  with 
milk  and  sugar.  By  adding  one-third  cup  cocoa  nibs,  a 
much  more  satisfactory  drink  is  obtained. 

Cracked  Cocoa 

%  cup  cracked  cocoa  3  pints  boiling  water 

Boil  cracked  cocoa  and  water  two  hours.  Strain,  and 
serve  with  milk  and  sugar.  If  cocoa  is  pounded  in  a  mortar 
and  soaked  over  night  in  three  pints  water,  it  will  require 
but  one  hour's  boiling. 

^  Breakfast  Cocoa 

1}4  tablespoons  prepared  cocoa  2  cups  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  cups  milk 

Few  grains  salt 

Scald  milk.  Mix  cocoa,  sugar,  and  salt,  dilute  with  one- 
half  cup  boiling  water  to  make  smooth  paste,  add  remaining 
water,  and  boil  five  minutes;  turn  into  scalded  milk  and 
beat  two  minutes,  using  egg-beater,  when  froth  will  form, 
preventing  scum,  which  is  so  unsightly ;  this  is  known  as 
milling. 


COCOA  AND   CHOCOLATE  41 

Reception  Cocoa 

3  tablespoons  cocoa  A  few  grains  salt 

%^  cup  sugar  4  cups  milk 

^  cup  boiling  -water 

Scald  milk.  Mix  cocoa,  sugar,  and  salt,  adding  enough 
boiling  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste ;  add  remaining  water 
and  boil  five  minutes;  pour  into  scalded  milk.  Beat  two 
minutes,  using  egg-beater. 

Brandy  Cocoa 

3  tablespoons  cocoa  Ij^  cups  boiling  water 

1^  cup  sugar  4  cups  milk 

3  teaspoons  cooking  brandy 

Prepare  as  Keception  Cocoa,  and  add  brandy  before 
milling. 

Chocolate  I 

\%_  squares  unsweetened  chocolate       Few  grains  salt 
)^  cup  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

3  cups  milk 

Scald  milk.  Melt  chocolate  in  small  saucepan  placed  over 
hot  water,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  gradually  boiling  water; 
when  smooth,  place  on  range  and  boil  five  minutes  ;  add  to 
scalded  milk,  mill,  and  serve  in  chocolate  cups  with  whipped 
cream.  One  and  one-half  ounces  vanilla  chocolate  may  be 
substituted  for  unsweetened  chocolate ;  being  sweetened,  less 
sugar  is  required. 

Chocolate  II 

Prepare  same  as  Chocolate  I.,  substituting  one  can  evap- 
orated cream  or  condensed  milk  diluted  with  two  cups  boiling 
water  in  place  of  three  cups  milk.  If  sweetened  condensed 
milk  is  used,  omit  sugar. 

Chocolate  III 

2  ozs.  sweetened  chocolate  Few  grains  salt 

4  cups  milk  Whipped  cream 

Scald  milk,  add  chocolate,  and  stir  until  chocolate  is 
melted.  Bring  to  boiling-point,  mill,  and  serve  in  chocolate 
cups  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 


42  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

FRUIT  BEVERAGES 
Lemonade 
1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  lemon  juice  1  pint  water 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  twelve  minutes ; 
add  fruit  juice,  cool,  and  dilute  with  ice-water  to  suit  indi- 
vidual tastes.  Lemon  syrup  may  be  bottled  and  kept  on 
hand  to  use  as  needed. 

Pineapple  Lemonade 

1  pint  water  1  quart  ice-water 

1  cup  sugar  1  can  grated  pineapple 

Juice  3  lemons 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  ten  minutes ;  add 
pineapple  and  lemon  juice,  cool,  strain,  and  add  ice-water. 

Orangeade 

Make  syrup  as  for  Lemonade.  Sweeten  orange  juice  with 
syrup,  and  dilute  by  pouring  over  crushed  ice. 

Mint  Julep 

1  quart  water  1  cup  orange  juice 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  8  lemons 

1  pint  claret  wine  !}{  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  strawberry  juice  12  sprigs  fresh  mint 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  quart  of  water  and  sugar  twenty 
minutes.  Separate  mint  in  pieces,  add  to  the  boiling  water, 
cover,  and  let  stand  in  warm  place  five  minutes,  strain,  and 
add  to  syrup;  add  fruit  juices,  and  cool.  Pour  into  punch- 
bowl, add  claret,  and  chill  with  a  large  piece  of  ice ;  dilute 
with  water.  Garnish  with  fresh  mint  leaves  and  whole 
strawberries. 

Claret  Punch 

1  quart  cold  water  Few  shavings  lemon  rind 
J4  cup  raisins  1^  cups  orange  juice 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  lemon  juice 
2  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon  1  pint  claret  wine 

Put  raisins  in  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  boiling-point, 
and   boil   twenty  minutes ;    strain,    add   sugar,    cinnamon, 


FRUIT  BEVERAGES  43 

lemon  rind,  and  boil  five  minutes.     Add  fruit  juice,  cool, 
strain,  pour  in  claret,  and  dilute  with  ice- water. 

Fruit  Punch  I 

1  quart  cold  water  %  cup  lemon  juice 

2  cups  sugar  2  cups  chopped  pineapple 

1  cup  orange  juice 

Boil  water,  sugar,  and  pineapple  twenty  minutes ;  add 
fruit  juice,  cool,   strain,  and  dilute  with  ice-water.  i 

Fruit  Punch  II 

1  cup  water  2  cups  strawberry  syrup 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  5  lemons 
1  cup  tea  infusion  Juice  5  oranges 

1  quart  Apollinaris  1  can  grated  pineapple 

1  cup  Maraschino  cherries 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  ten  minutes  ;  add 
tea,  strawberry  syrup,  lemon  juice,  orange  juice,  and  pine- 
apple ;  let  stand  thirty  minutes,  strain,  and  add  ice-water  to 
make  one  and  one-half  gallons  of  liquid.  Add  cherries  and 
Apollinaris.  Serve  in  punch-bowl,  with  large  piece  of  ice. 
This  quantity  will  serve  fifty. 

Fruit  Punch  III 

1  cup  sugar  )^  cup  lemon  juice 

1  cup  hot  tea  infusion  1  pint  ginger  ale 

%  cup  orange  juice  1  pint  Apollinaris 

Few  slices  orange 

Pour  tea  over  sugar,  and  as  soon  as  sugar  is  dissolved 
add  fruit  juices.  Strain  into  punch-bowl  over  a  large  piece 
of  ice,  and  just  before  serving  add  ale,  Apollinaris,  and 
slices  of  orange.  For  tea  infusion  use  two  teaspoons  tea  and 
one  and  one-fourth  cups  boiling  water. 

Fruit  Punch  IV 

9  oranges  \%  cups  tea  infusion 

6  lemons  \}^  cups  sugar 

1  cup  grated  pineapple  1  cup  hot  water 

^  1  cup  raspberry  syrup  1  quart  Apollinaris 

Mix  juice  of  oranges  and  lemons  with  pineapple,  raspberry 
syrup,  and  tea ;  then  add  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  sugar  and 


44  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

water  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  in  punch-bowl  over  a  large 
piece  of  ice.  Chill  thoroughly,  and  just  before  serving  add 
Apollinaris. 

£ringer  Punch 

1  quart  cold  water  %  lb.  Canton  ginger 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  orange  juice 

%  cup  lemon  juice 

Chop  ginger,  add  to  water  and  sugar,  boil  fifteen  minutes ; 
add  fruit  juice,  cool,  strain,  and  dilute  with  crushed  ice. 

Champagne  Punch 

1  cup  water  2  tablespoons  Orange  Cura9oa 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  2  lemons 

1  quart  California  champagne       2  cups  tea  infusion 
4  tablespoons  brandy  Ice 

2  tablespoons  Medford  rum  1  quart  soda  water 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  ten  minutes. 
Mix  champagne,  brandy,  rum,  Curagoa,  lemon  juice,  and  tea 
infusion.  Sweeten  to  taste  with  syrup  and  pour  into  punch- 
bowl over  a  large  piece  of  ice.  Just  before  serving  add 
soda  water. 

Club  Punch 

1  cup  water  1  quart  Vichy 

2  cups  sugar  3  sliced  oranges 
1  quart  Burgundy  %  '^'^'^  pineapple 
1  cup  rum  Juice  2  lemons 
y^  cup  brandy  1  cup  tea  infusion 
y^  cup  Benedictine  Ice. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  ten  minutes. 
Mix  remaining  ingredients,  except  ice^  sweeten  to  taste  with 
syrup,  and  pour  into  punch-bowl  over  a  large  piece  of  ice. 

Unfermented  Grape  Juice 

10  lbs.  grapes  1  cup  water 

3  lbs.  sugar 

Put  grapes  and  water  in  granite  stew-pan.  Heat  until 
stones  and  pulp  separate ;  then  strain  through  jelly-bag, 
add  sugar,  heat  to   boiling-point,   and   bottle.      This  will 


r 


Punch  Service.  —  Page 


Clabet  Cup  Service.  —  Page  45. 


Ki^O 


Double  Loaves  of  Milk  and  Water  Bread.  —  Page  5J^. 


"1 


BosTOK  Brown  Bread.  —  Page  57, 


FRUIT  BEVERAGES  45 

make  one  gallon.     When  served,  it  should  be  diluted  one- 
half  with  water. 

Claret  Cup 

1  quart  claret  wine  2  tablespoons  brandy 

^  cup  Cura9oa  Sugar 

1  quart  Apollinaris  Mint  leaves 

1^  cup  orange  juice  Cucumber  rind 

12  strawberries 

Mix  ingredients,  except  Apollinaris,  using  enough  sugar 
to  sweeten  to  taste.  Stand  on  ice  to  chill,  and  add  chilled 
Apollinaris  just  before  serving. 

Sauterne  Cup 

1  quart  soda  water  2  tablespoons  Orange  Cura9oa 

2  cups  Sauterne  wine  y^  cnp  sugar  (scant) 
Rind  %  orange  Mint  leaves 

Rind  y^  lemon  Few  slices  orange 

12  strawberries 

Add  CuraQoa  to  rind  of  fruit  and  sugar;  cover,  and  let 
stand  two  hours.  Add  Sauterne,  strain,  and  stand  on  ice  to 
chill.  Add  chilled  soda  water,  mint  leaves,  slices  of  orange, 
and  strawberries.  The  success  of  cups  depends  upon  the 
addition  of  charged  water  just  before  serving. 

Cider  Punch 

1  quart  new  or  bottled  cider  Sugar 

^  cup  lemon  juice  1  quart  Apollinaris 

Ice 

Mix  cider  and  lemon  juice,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Strain 
into  punch  bowl  over  a  large  piece  of  ice.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  Apollinaris. 


46  BOSTON  OOOKING-SOHOOI*  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  IV 
BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING 

BREAD  is  the  most  important  article  of  food,  and  history 
tells  of  its  use  thousands  of  years  before  the  Christian 
era.  Many  processes  have  been  employed  in  making  and 
baking ;  and  as  a  result,  from  the  first  flat  cake  has  come 
the  perfect  loaf.  The  study  of  bread  making  is  of  no  slight 
importance,  and  deserves  more  attention  than  it  receives. 

Considering  its  great  value,  it  seems  unnecessary  and 
wrong  to  find  poor  bread  on  the  table;  and  would  that 
our  standard  might  be  raised  as  high  as  that  of  our  friends 
across  the  water!  Who  does  not  appreciate  the  loaf  pro- 
duced by  the  French  baker,  who  has  worked  months  to 
learn  the  art  of  bread  making? 

Bread  is  made  from  flour  of  wheat,  or  other  cereals,  by 
addition  of  water,  salt,  and  a  ferment.  Wheat  flour  is  best 
adapted  for  bread  making,  as  it  contains  gluten  in  the  right 
proportion  to  make  the  spongy  loaf.  But  for  its  slight  de- 
ficiency in  fat,  wheat  bread  is  a  perfect  food ;  hence  arose 
the  custom  of  spreading  it  with  butter.  It  should  be  remem- 
bered, in  speaking  of  wheat  bread  as  perfect  food,  that  it 
must  be  made  of  flour  rich  in  gluten.  Next  to  wheat  flour 
ranks  rye  in  importance  for  bread  making ;  but  it  is  best 
used  in  combination  with  wheat,  for  alone  it  makes  heavy, 
sticky,  moist  bread.  Corn  also  needs  to  be  used  in  com- 
bination with  wheat  for  bread  making,  for  if  used  alone  the 
bread  will  be  crumbly. 

The  miller,  in  order  to  produce  flour  which  will  make  the 
white  loaf  (so  sightly  to  many),  in  the  process  of  grinding 
wheat  has  been  forced  to  remove  the  inner  bran  coats,  so 
rich  in  mineral  matter,  and  much  of  the  gluten  intimately 
coonected  with  then^ 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  47 

To  understand  better  the  details  of  bread  making,  wheat, 
from  which  bread  is  principally  made,  should  be  considered. 

A  grain  of  wheat  consists  of  (1)  an  outer  covering  or 
husk,  which  is  always  removed  before  milling;  (2)  bran 
coats,  which  contain  mineral  matter ;  (3)  gluten,  the  proteid 
matter  and  fat;  and  (4)  starch,  the  centre  and  largest  part 
of  the  grain.  Wheat  is  distinguished  as  white  and  soft^  or 
red  and  hard.  The  former  is  known  as  winter  wheats  having 
been  sown  in  the  fall,  and  living  through  the  winter;  the 
latter  is  known  as  spring  wheats  having  been  sown  in  the 
spring.  From  winter  wheat,  pastry  flour,  sometimes  called 
St.  Louis,  is  made;  from  spring  wheat,  bread  flour,  also 
called  Haxall.  St.  Louis  flour  takes  its  name  from  the  old 
process  of  grinding;  Haxall,  from  the  name  of  the  inventor 
of  the  new  process.  All  flours  are  now  milled  by  the  same 
process.  For  difference  in  composition  of  wheat  flours,  con- 
sult table  in  Chapter  VI  on  Cereals. 

Wheat  is  milled  for  converting  into  flour  by  processes 
producing  essentially  the  same  results,  all  requiring  cleans- 
ing, grinding,  and  bolting.  Entire  wheat  flour  has  only  the 
outer  husk  removed,  the  remainder  of  the  kernel  being  finely 
ground.  Graham  jlour^  confounded  with  entire  wheat,  is 
too  often  found  to  be  an  inferior  flour,  mixed  with  coarse 
bran. 

Grinding  is  accomplished  by  one  of  four  systems :  (1)  low 
milling ;  (2)  Hungarian  system,  or  high  milling ;  (3)  roller 
milling;  and  (4)  by  a  machine  known  as  distintegrator. 

In  low  milling  process,  grooved  stones  are  employed  for 
grinding.  The  stones  are  enclosed  in  a  metal  case,  and  pro- 
vision is  made  within  case  for  passage  of  air  to  prevent 
wheat  from  becoming  overheated.  The  lower  stone  being 
permanently  fixed,  the  upper  stone  being  so  balanced  above 
it  that  grooves  may  exactly  correspond,  when  upper  stone 
rotates,  sharp  edges  of  grooves  meet  each  other,  and  operate 
like  a  pair  of  scissors.  By  this  process  flour  is  made  ready 
for  bolting  by  one  grinding. 

In  high  milling  process,  grooved  stones  are  employed,  but 
are  kopt  BO  far  apart  that  at  first  the  wheat  is  only  bruised, 
end  a  seriee  of  grindiDgs  and  siftings  is  neoeeBary.    Ibis 


48  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 

process  is  applicable  only  to  the  hardest  wheats,  and  is  par- 
tially supplanted  by  roller-milling. 

In  roller-milling,  wheat  is  subjected  to  action  of  a  pair  of 
steel  or  chilled-iron  horizontal  rollers,  having  toothed  sur- 
faces. They  revolve  in  opposite  directions,  at  different  rates 
of  speed,  and  have  a  cutting  action. 

Porcelain  rollers,  with  rough  surfaces,  are  sometimes  em- 
ployed. In  this  system,  grinding  is  accomplished  by  cutting 
rather  than  crushing. 

''The  disintegrator  consists  of  a  pair  of  circular  metal 
disks,  set  face  to  face,  studded  with  circles  of  projecting 
bars  so  arranged  that  circles  of  bars  on  one  disk  alternate 
with  those  of  the  other.  The  disks  are  mounted  on  the  same 
centre,  and  so  closely  set  to  one  another  that  projecting  bars 
of  one  disk  come  quite  close  to  plane  surface  of  the  other. 
They  are  inclosed  within  an  external  casing.  The  disks 
are  caused  to  rotate  in  opposite  directions  with  great  rapid- 
ity, and  the  grain  is  almost  instantaneously  reduced  to  a 
powder." 

After  grinding  comes  bolting,  by  which  process  the  differ- 
ent grades  of  flour  are  obtained.  The  ground  wheat  is 
placed  in  octagonal  cylinders  (covered  with  silk  or  linen 
bolting-cloth  of  different  degrees  of  fineness),  which  are 
allowed  to  rotate,  thus  forcing  the  wheat  through.  The 
flour  from  first  siftings  contains  the  largest  percentage  of 
gluten. 

Flour  is  branded  under  different  names  to  suit  manufac- 
turer or  dealer.  In  consequence,  the  same  wheat,  milled  by 
the  same  process,  makes  flour  which  is  sold  under  different 
names. 

In  buying  flour,  whether  bread  or  pastry,  select  the  best 
kept  by  your  grocer.  Some  of  the  well-known  brands  of 
bread  flour  are  King  Arthur,  Swansdown,  Bridal  Veil, 
Columbia,  Washburn's  Extra,  and  Pillsbury's  Best ;  of  pastry, 
Best  St.  Louis.  Bread  flour  should  be  used  in  all  cases 
where  yeast  is  called  for,  with  few  exceptions;  in  other 
cases,  pastry  flour.  The  difference  between  bread  and  pas- 
try flour  may  be  readily  determined.  Take  bread  flour  in 
the  hand,  close  hand  tightly,  then  open,  and  flour  will  not 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  49 

keep  in  shape  ;  if  allowed  to  pass  through  fingers  it  will  feel 
slightly  granular.  Take  pastry  flour  in  the  hand,  close  hand 
tightly,  open,  and  flour  will  be  in  shape,  having  impression 
of  the  lines  of  the  hand,  and  feeling  soft  and  velvety  to 
touch.     Flour  should  always  be  sifted  before  measuring. 

Entire  wheat  flour  differs  from  ordinary  flour  inasmuch 
as  it  contains  all  the  gluten  found  in  wheat,  the  outer  husk 
of  kernels  only  being  removed,  the  remainder  ground  to 
different  degrees  of  fineness  and  left  unbolted.  Such  flours 
are  now  quite  generally  sold  by  all  first  class  grocers.  Included 
in  this  class  is  the  Frknklin  Mills  Company,  the  Pioneers,  in 
making  Fine  Flour  of  the  Entire  Wheat. 

Gluten,  the  proteid  of  wheat,  is  a  gray,  tough,  elastic  sub- 
stance, insoluble  in  water.  On  account  of  its  great  power 
of  expansion,  it  holds  the  gas  developed  in  bread  dough  by 
fermentation,  which  otherwise  would  escape. 

Teast 

Yeast  is  a  microscopic  plant  of  fungous  growth,  and  is  the 
lowest  form  of  vegetable  life.  It  consists  of  spores,  or 
germs,  found  floating  in. air,  and  belongs  to  a  family  of 
which  there  are  many  species.  These  spores  grow  by  bud- 
ding and  division,  and  multiply  very  rapidly  under  favorable 
conditions,  and  produce  fermentation. 

Fermentation  is  the  process  by  which,  undfer  influence  of 
air,  warmth,  moisture,  and  some  ferment,  sugar  (or  dex- 
trose, starch  converted  into  sugar)  is  changed  into  alcohol 
(C2H5HO)  and  carbon  dioxide  (CO2).  The  product  of  all 
fermentation  is  the  same.  Three  kinds  are  considered,  — 
alcoholic,  acetic,  and  lactic.  Where  bread  dough  is  allowed 
to  ferment  by  addition  of  yeast,  the  fermentation  is  alcoholic  ; 
where  alcoholic  fermentation  continues  too  long,  acatic  fer- 
mentation sets  in,  which  is  a  continuation  of  alcoholic. 
Lactic  fermentation  is  fermentation  which  takes  place  when 
milk  sours. 

Liquid,  dry,  or  compressed  yeast  may  be  used  for  rais- 
ing bread.  The  compressed  yeast  cakes  done  up  in  tinfoil 
have  long  proved  satisfactory,  and  are  now  almost  uni- 
versally used,  having  replaced  the  home-made  liquid  yeast 


50  BOSTON  COOKTNG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Never  use  a  yeast  cake  unless  perfectly  fresh,  which 
may  be  determined  by  its  light  color  and  absence  of  dark 
streaks. 

The  yeast  plant  is  killed  at  212°  F. ;  life  is  suspended,  but 
not  entirely  destroyed,  32°  F.  The  temperature  best  suited 
for  its  growth  is  from  65°  to  68°  F.  The  most  favorable 
conditions  for  the  growth  of  yeast  are  a  warm,  moist,  sweet, 
nitrogenous  soil.  These  must  be  especially  considered  in 
bread  making. 

Bread  Making 

Fermented  bread  is  made  by  mixing  to  a  doughy  flour, 
with  a  definite  quantity  of  water,  milk,  or  water  and  milk, 
salt,  and  a  ferment.  Sugar  is  usually  added  to  hasten  fer- 
mentation. Dough  is  then  kneaded  that  the  ingredients  may 
be  thoroughly  incorporated,  covered,  and  allowed  to  rise  in 
a  temperature  of  68°  F.,  until  dough  has  doubled  its  bulk. 
This  change  has  been  caused  by  action  of  the  ferment,  which 
attacks  some  of  the  starch  in  flour,  and  changes  it  to  sugar, 
and  sugar  in  turn  to  alcohol  and  carbon  dioxide,  thus  light- 
ening the  whole  mass.  Dough  is  then  kneaded  a  second 
time  to  break  bubbles  and  distribute  evenly  the  carbon 
dioxide.  It  is  shaped  in  loaves,  put  in  greased  bread  pans 
(they  being  half  filled),  covered,  allowed  to  rise  in  tempera- 
ture same  as  for  first  rising,  to  double  its  bulk.  If  risen  too 
long,  it  will  be  full  of  large  holes  ;  if  not  risen  long  enough, 
it  will  be  heavy  and  soggy.  If  pans  containing  loaves  are 
put  in  too  hot  a  place  while  rising,  a  heavy  streak  will  be 
found  near  bottom  of  loaf,  - 

How  to  Shape  Loaves  and  Biscuits.  To  shape  bread 
dough  in  loaves,  divide  dough  in  parts,  each  part  large 
enough  for  a  loaf,  knead  until  smooth,  and  if  possible  avoid 
seams  in  under  part  of  loaf.  If  baked  in  brick  pan,  place 
two  loaves  in  one  pan,  brushed  between  with  a  little  melted 
butter.  If  baked  in  long  shallow  pan,  when  well  kneaded, 
roll  with  both  hands  to  lengthen,  care  being  taken  that  it  is 
smooth  and  of  uniform  thickness.  Where  long  loaves  are 
baked  on  sheets,  shape  and  roll  loosely  in  a  towel  sprinkled 
%ith  Qom  meai  for  last  rising. 


BEEAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  51 

To  shape  bread  dough  in  biscuits,  pull  or  cut  off  as  many 
small  pieces  (having  them  of  uniform  size)  as  there  are  to  be 
biscuits.  Flour  palms  of  hands  slightly  ;  take  up  each  piece 
and  shape  separately,  lifting,  with  thumb  and  first  two 
fingers  of  right  hand,  and  placing  in  palm  of  left  hand,  con- 
stantly moving  dough  round  and  round,  while  folding  to- 
wards the  centre ;  when  smooth,  turn  it  over  and  roll  between 
palms  of  hands.  Place  in  greased  pans  near  together, 
brushed  between  with  a  little  melted  butter,  which  will  cause 
biscuits  to  separate  easily  after  baking.  For  finger  rolls, 
shape  biscuits  and  roll  with  one  hand  on  part  of  board  where 
there  is  no  flour,  until  of  desired  length,  care  being  taken  to 
make  smooth,  of  uniform  size,  and  round  at  ends. 

Biscuits  may  be  shaped  in  a  great  variety  of  ways,  but 
they  should  always  be  small.  Large  biscuits,  though  equally 
good,  never  tempt  one  by  their  daintiness. 

Bread  is  often  brushed  over  with  milk  or  butter  before 
baking,  to  make  a  darker  crust. 

Where  bread  is  allowed  to  rise  over  night,  a  small  piece 
of  yeast  cake  must  be  used ;  one-fourth  yeast  cake  to  one 
pint  liquid  is  sufficient,  one-third  yeast  cake  to  one  quart 
liquid.  Bread  mixed  and  baked  during  the  day  requires 
a  larger  quantity  of  yeast;  one  yeast  cake,  or  sometimes 
even  more,  to  one  pint  of  liquid.  Bread  dough  mixed  with 
a  large  quantity  of  yeast  should  be  watched  during  rising, 
and  cut  down  as  soon  as  mixture  doubles  its  bulk.  If  proper 
care  is  taken,  the  bread  will  be  found  most  satisfactory, 
having  neither  "  yeasty  "  nor  sour  taste. 

Fermented  bread  was  formerly  raised  by  means  of  leaven. 

leaking  of  Bread 

Bread  is  baked :  (1)  To  kill  ferment,  (2)  to  make  soluble 
the  starch,  (3)  to  drive  off  afcohol  and  carbon  dioxide,  and 
(4)  to  form  brown  crust  of  pleasant  flavor.  Bread  should 
be  baked  in  a  hot  oven.  If  the  oven  be  too  hot  the  crust 
will  brown  quickly  before  the  heat  has  reached  the  centre, 
and  prevent  further  rising ;  loaf  should  continue  rising  for 
first  fifteen  minutes  of  baking,  when  it  should  begin  to  brown. 


52  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  continue  browning  for  the  next  twenty  minutes.  The 
last  fifteen  minutes  it  should  finish  baking,  when  the  heat 
may  be  reduced.  When  bread  is  done,  it  will  not  cling  to 
sides  of  pan,  and  may  be  easily  removed.  Biscuits  require 
more  heat  than  loaf  bread,  should  continue  rising  the  first 
five  minutes,  and  begin  to  brown  in  eight  minutes.  Experi- 
ence is  the  best  guide  for  testing  temperature  of  oven.  Vari- 
ous oven  thermometers  have  been  made,  but  none  have 
proved  practical.  Bread  may  be  brushed  over  with  melted 
butter,  three  minutes  before  removal  from  oven,  if  a  more 
tender  crust  is  desired. 

Care  of  Bread  after  Baking 

Remove  loaves  at  once  from  pans,  and  place  side  down 
on  a  wire  bread  or  cake  cooler.  If  a  crisp  crusb  is  desired, 
allow  bread  to  cool  without  covering;  if  soft  crust,  cover 
with  a  towel  during  cooling.  When  cool,  put  in  tin  box  or 
stone  jar,  and  cover  closely. 

Never  keep  bread  wrapped  in  cloth,  as  the  cloth  will  ab- 
sorb moisture  and  transmit  an  unpleasant  taste  to  bread. 
Bread  tins  or  jars  should  be  washed  and  scalded  twice  a 
week  in  winter,  and  every  other  day  in  summer;  otherwise 
bread  is  apt  to  mould.  As  there  are  so  many  ways  of  using 
small  and  stale  pieces  of  bread,  care  should  be  taken  that 
none  is  wasted. 

Unfermented  bread  is  raised  without  a  ferment,  the  car- 
bon dioxide  being  produced  by  the  use  of  soda  (alkaline  salt) 
and  an  acid.  Soda,  employed  in  combination  with  cream 
of  tartar,  for  raising  mixtures,  in  proportion  of  one-third 
soda  to  two-thirds  cream  of  tartar,  was  formerly  used  to  a 
great  extent,  but  has  been  generally  superseded  by  baking 
powder. 

Soda  bicarbonate  (NaHCOg)  is  manufactured  from  sodium 
chloride  (NaCl),  cohimon  salt  or  cryolite. 

Baking  powder  is  composed  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar 
in  definite,  correct  proportions,  mixed  with  small  quantity 
of  dry  material  (flour  or  cornstarch)  to  keep  action  from 
taking  place.    If  found  to  contain  alum  or  ammonia,  it  is 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  63 

impure.  In  using  baking  powder,  allow  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder  to  each  cup  of  flour,  when  eggs  are  not  used ; 
to  egg  mixtures  allow  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  When  a  recipe  calls  for  soda  and  cream  of  tartar, 
in  substituting  baking  powder  use  double  amount  of  cream 
of  tartar  given. 

Soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  or  baking  powder  mixtures,  are 
made  light  by  liberation  of  gas  in  mixture  ;  the  gas  in  soda 
is  set  free  by  the  acid  in  cream  of  tartar ;  in  order  to  accom- 
plish this,  moisture  and  heat  are  both  required.  As  soon  as 
moisture  is  added  to  baking  powder  mixtures,  the  gas  will 
begin  to  escape ;  hence  the  necessity  of  baking  as  soon  as 
possible.  If  baking  powder  only  is  used  for  raising,  put 
mixture  to  be  cooked  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cream  of  tartar  (HKCiO^H^)  is  obtained  from  argols 
found  adhering  to  bottom  and  sides  of  wine  casks,  which 
are  ninety  per  cent  cream  of  tartar.  The  argols  are  ground 
and  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  coloring  matter  removed 
by  filtering  through  animal  charcoal,  and  by  a  process  of 
recrystallization  the  cream  of  tartar  of  commerce  is  obtained. 

The  acid  found  in  molasses,  sour  milk,  and  lemon  juice 
win  liberate  gas  in  soda,  but  the  action  is  much  quicker  than 
when  cream  of  tartar  is  used. 

Fermented  and  unfermented  breads  are  raised  to  be  made 
light  and  porous,  that  they  may  be  easily  acted  upon  by  the 
digestive  ferments.  Some  mixtures  are  made  light  by  beat- 
ing sufficiently  to  enclose  a  large  amount  of  air,  and  when 
baked  in  a  hot  oven  air  is  forced  to  expand. 

Aerated  bread  is  made  light  by  carbon  dioxide  forced 
into  dough  under  pressure.  The  carbon  dioxide  is  generated 
from  sulphuric  acid  and  lime.  Aerated  bread  is  of  close 
texture,  and  has  a  flavor  peculiar  to  itself.  It  is  a  product 
of  the  baker's  skill,  but  has  found  little  favor  except  in  few 
localities. 


64  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Water  Bread 

2  cups  boiling  water  2%  teaspoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  }{  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

1  tablespoon  lard  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  6  cups  sifted  flour 

Pat  butter,  lard,  sugar,  and  salt  in  bread  raiser,  or  large 
bowl  without  a  lip ;  pour  on  boiling  water ;  when  lukewarm, 
add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  five  cups  of  flour;  then  stir 
until  thoroughly  mixed,  using  a  knife  or  mixing- spoon. 
Add  remaining  flour,  mix,  and  turn  on  a  floured  board,  leav- 
ing a  clean  bowl ;  knead  until  mixture  is  smooth,  elastic  to 
touch,  and  bubbles  may  be  seen  under  the  surface.  Some 
practice  is  required  to  knead  quickly,  but  the  motion  once 
acquired  will  never  be  forgotten.  Return  to  bowl,  cover 
with  a  clean  cloth  kept  for  the  purpose,  and  board  or  tin 
cover;  let  rise  over  night  in  temperature  of  65°  F.  In 
morning  cut  down :  this  is  accomplished  by  cutting  through 
and  turning  over  dough  several  times  with  a  case  knife,  and 
checks  fermentation  for  a  short  time  ;  dough  may  be  again 
raised,  and  recut  down  if  it  is  not  convenient  to  shape  into 
loaves  or  biscuits  after  first  cutting.  When  properly  cared 
for,  bread  need  never  sour.  Toss  on  board  slightly  floured, 
knead,  shape  into  loaves  or  biscuits,  place  in  greased  pans, 
having  pans  nearly  half  full.  Cover,  let  rise  again  to  double 
its  bulk,  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  (See  Baking  of  Bread  and 
Time-Table  for  Baking.)  This  recipe  will  make  a  double 
loaf  of  bread  and  pan  of  biscuit.  Cottolene,  crisco,  or 
beef  drippings  may  be  used  for  shortening,  one-third  less 
being  required.  Bread  shortened  with  butter  has  a  good 
flavor,  but  is  not  as  white  as  when  lard  is  used. 

Milk  and  Water  Bread 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

1  cup  boiling  water  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoon  lard  .  6  cups  sifted  flour,  or  one  cup 
X  tablespoon  butter  white  flour  and  enough  en- 

2)^  teaspoons  salt  tire  wheat  flour  to  knead 

Prepare  and  bake  as  "Water  Bread.  When  entire  wheat 
flour  is  used  add  three  tablespoons  molasses.     Bread  may  be 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  66 

Mixed,  raised,  and  baked  in  five  hours,  by  using  one  yeast- 
cake.  Bread  made  in  this  way  has  proved  most  satisfac- 
tory. It  is  usually  mixed  in  the  morning,  and  the  cook  is 
able  to  watch  the  dough  while  rising  and  keep  it  at  uni- 
form temperature.  It  is  often  desirable  to  place  bowl  con- 
taining dough  in  pan  of  water,  keeping  water  at  uniform 
temperature  of  from  95°  to  100°  F.  Cooks  who  have  not 
proved  themselves  satisfactory  bread  makers  are  successful 
when  employing  this  method. 

Entire  "Wheat  Bread 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  teaspoons  salt 

^  cup  sugar  or  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

3^  cup  molasses  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

4^  cups  coarse  entire  wheat  flour 

Add  sweetening  and  salt  to  milk;  cool,  and  when  luke- 
warm add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  flour ;  beat  well,  cover, 
and  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk.  Again  beat,  and  turn  into 
greased  bread  pans,  having  pans  one-half  full ;  let  rise,  and 
bake.  Entire  Wheat  Bread  should  not  quite  double  its  bulk 
during  last  rising.    This  mixture  may  be  baked  in  gem  pans. 

German  CaraTTvay  Bread 

Follow  recipe  for  Milk  and  Water  Bread  (see  p.  54), 
using  rye  flour  in  place  of  entire  wheat  flour,  and  one  table- 
spoon sugar  for  sweetening.  After  first  rising  while  knead- 
ing add  one-third  tablespoon  caraway  seed.  Shape,  let  rise 
again,  and  bake  in  a  loaf. 

Entire  "Wheat  and  "White  Flour  Bread 

Use  same  ingredients  as  for  Entire  Wheat  Bread,  with 
exception  of  flour.  For  flour  use  three  and  one-fourth  cups 
entire  wheat  and  two  and  three-fourths  cups  white  flour. 
The  dough  should  be  slightly  kneaded,  and  if  handled 
quickly  will  not  stick  to  board.  Loaves  and  biscuits  should 
be  sh.iped  with  hands  instead  of  pouring  into  pans,  as  in 
Entire  Wheat  Bread.  ^» 


56  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Graham  Bread 

2  cups  hot  liquid  i^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

(water,  or  milk  and  water)  y^  cup  lukewarm  water 

y^  cup  molasses  3  cups  flour 

2%  teaspoons  salt  3  cups  Graham  flour 

Prepare  and  bake  as  Entire  Wheat  Bread.  The  bran 
remaining  in  sieve  after  sifting  Graham  flour  should  be 
discarded.  If  used  for  muffins,  use  two  and  one-half  cups 
liquid. 

Third  Bread 

2  cups  lukewarm  water  1  cup  rye  flour 

1  yeast  cake  1  cup  granulated 
%  tablespoon  salt  corn  meal 
^  cup  molasses  3  cups  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  water,  add  remaining  ingredients, 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Let  rise,  shape,  let  rise  again,  and 
bake  as  Entire  Wheat  Bread. 

Rolled  Oats  Bread 

2  cups  boiling  water  y^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
%  cup  molasses  i^  cup  lukewarm  water 
%  tablepsoon  salt                           1  cup  rolled  oats 

1  tablespoon  butter  5  cups  flour 

Add  boiling  water  to  oats  and  let  stand  one  hour;  add 
molasses,  salt,  butter,  dissolved  yeast  cake,  and  flour;  let 
rise,  beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  buttered  bread  pans,  let  rise 
again,  and  bake.  To  make  shaping  of  biscuits  easy,  take  up 
mixture  by  spoonfuls,  drop  into  plate  of  flour,  and  have 
palms  of  hands  well  covered  with  flour  before  attempting  to 
shape  or  drop  from  spoon  into  buttered  muffin  tins. 

Rye  Biscuit 

1  cup  boiling  water  \%  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  rye  flakes  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  lukewarm  water 
1^  cup  molasses  Flour 

Make  same  as  Rolled  Oats  Bread. 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  67 

Rye  Bread 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1}4  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  ^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

1  tablespoon  lard  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  cups  flour 

^  cup  brown  sugar  Rye  meal 

To  milk  and  water  add  lard,  butter,  sugar,  and  salt ;  when 
lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast  caiie  and  flour,  beat  thor- 
oughly, cover,  and  let  rise  until  light.  Add  rye  meal  until 
dough  is  stiff  enough  to  knead ;  knead  thoroughly,  let  rise, 
shape  in  loaves,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 

Date  Bread 

Use  recipe  for  Health  Food  Muffins  (see  p.  67).  After 
the  first  rising,  while  kneading,  add  two-thirds  cup  each  of 
English  walnut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  dates  stoned 
and  cut  in  pieces.  Shape  in  a  loaf,  let  rise  in  pan,  and  bake 
fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  bread  is  well 
adapted  for  sandwiches. 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

1  cup  rye  meal  %  tablespoon  soda 

1  cup  granulated  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  Graham  flour  ^  cup  molasses 

2  cups  sour  milk,  or  1^  cups  sweet  milk  or  water 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  milk,  stir 
until  well  mixed,  turn  into  a  well-buttered  mould,  and  steam 
three  and  one-half  hours.  The  cover  should  be  buttered 
before  being  placed  on  mould,  and  then  tied  down  with 
string ;  otherwise  the  bread  in  rising  might  force  off  cover. 
Mould  should  never  be  filled  more  than  two-thirds  full.  A 
melon-mould  or  one-pound  baking-powder  boxes  make  the 
most  attractive-shaped  loaves,  but  a  five-poimd  lard  pail 
answers  the  purpose.  For  steaming,  place  mould  on  a  trivet 
in  kettle  containing  boiling  water,  allowing  water  to  come 
half-way  up  around  mould,  cover  closely,  and  steam,  adding, 
as  needed,  more  boiling  water. 


68  BOSTON  COOKING-SOHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


New  England  Brown  Bread 

1^  cups  stale  bread  Rye  meal  ^ 

33^  cups  cold  water  Granulated  corn  meal  >    /s^^ps 

^  cup  molasses  Graham  flour  )  ®^° 

1%  teaspoons  salt  3  teaspoons  soda 

Soak  bread  in  two  cups  of  the  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  rub  through  colander,  add  molasses,  dry  ingredients 
mixed  and  sifted,  and  remaining  water.  Stir  until  well 
mixed,  fill  buttered  one-pound  baking-powder  boxes  two- 
thirds  full,  cover,  and  steam  two  hours, 

Indian  Bread 

1)^  cups  Graham  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  Indian  meal  *^  cup  molasses 

^  tablespoon  soda  \%  cups  milk 

Mix  and  steam  same  as  Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Steamed  Graham  Bread 

3  cups  Arlington  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  molasses  (scant) 
3)^  teaspoons  soda                          2%  cups  sour  milk 

Mix  same  as  Boston  Brown  Bread  and  steam  four  hours. 
This  bread  may  often  be  eaten  when  bread  containing  corn 
meal  could  not  be  digested, 

Parker  House  Rolls 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  teaspoons  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
2  tablespoons  sugar                        ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

Flour 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  three  cups  of  flour.  Beat  thor- 
oughly, cover,  and  let  rise  until  light ;  cut  down,  and  add 
enough  flour  to  knead  (it  will  take  about  two  and  one-half 
cups).  Let  rise  again,  toss  on  slightly  floured  board,  knead, 
pat,  and  roll  out  to  one-third  inch  thickness.  Shape  with 
biscuit-cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour.  Dip  the  handle  of  a 
jase  knife  in  flour,  and  with  it  make  a  crease  through  the 
■rnddk  of  eacb  piece  j  brusk  over  one-hiSiJlf  of  ea«sfe  piece  with 


Sweet  Frekch  Rolls.  —  Page  60, 


'  iirii.M.i^rr^iMaa^«iMiiiawLiiliMfcitiijai^^ 


Parker  House  Rolls;  Salad  Rolls;  Clover  Leaf 
Biscuit  ;  Sticks.  —  Page  59. 


Swedish  Tea  Ring;  Swedish  Tea  Braid.  —  Page 


CorrEE  Cakes  (Brioche).  —  Page  62. 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  69 

melted  butter,  fold,  and  press  edges  together.  Place  in 
greased  pan,  one  inch  apart,  cover,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  As  rolls  rise  they  will  part 
slightly,  and  if  hastened  in  rising  are  apt  to  lose  their 
shape. 

Parker  House  Rolls  may  be  shaped  by  cutting  or  tearing 
off  small  pieces  of  dough,  and  shaping  round  like  a  biscuit ; 
place  in  rows  on  floured  board,  cover,  and  let  rise  fifteen 
minutes.  With  handle  of  large  wooden  spoon,  or  toy  roll- 
ing-pin, roll  through  centre  of  each  biscuit,  brush  edge  of 
lower  halves  with  melted  butter,  fold,  press  lightly,  place  in 
buttered  pan  one  inch  apart,  cover,  let  rise,  and  bake. 

Salad  or  Dinner  Rolls 

Use  same  ingredients  as  for  Parker  House  Rolls,  allowing 
one-fourth  cup  butter.  Shape  in  small  biscuits,  place  in 
rows  on  a  floured  board,  cover  with  cloth  and  pan,  and  let 
rise  until  light  and  well  puffed.  Flour  handle  of  wooden 
-spoon  and  make  a  deep  crease  in  middle  of  each  biscuit, 
take  up,  and  press  edges  together.  Place  closely  in  buttered 
pan,  brushing  with  butter  between  biscuits,  cover,  let  rise, 
and  bake  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  in  hot  oven.  From  this 
same  mixture  crescents,  braids,  twists,  bow-knots,  clover 
leaves,  and  other  fancy  shapes  may  be  made. 

Sticks 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

\%  tablespoons  sugar  White  1  egg 

%  teaspoon  salt  3^  cups  flour 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake,  white  of  egg  well  beaten,  and  flour. 
Knead,  let  rise,  shape,  let  rise  again,  and  start  baking  in  a 
hot  oven,  reducing  heat,  that  sticks  may  be  crisp  and  dry. 
To  shape  sticks,  first  shape  as  small  biscuits,  roll  on  board 
(where  there  is  no  flour)  with  hands  until  eight  inches  in 
length,  keeping  of  uniform  size  and  rounded  ends,  which 
may  be  done  by  bringing  fingers  close  to,  but  not  over^ 
ends  of  sticks. 


60  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Salad  Sticks 

Follow  recipe  for  Sticks.  Let  rise,  and  add  salt  to 
dough,  allowing  two  teaspoons  to  each  cup  of  dough. 
Shape  in  small  sticks,  let  rise  again^  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.  If  preferred  glazed,  brush  over  with 
egg  yolk  slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with  one-half  table- 
spoon cold  water. 

Swedish  Rolls 

Use  recipe  for  Salad  Rolls.  Roll  to  one-fourth  inch 
thickness,  spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  two  table- 
spoons sugar  mixed  with  one-third  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one-third  cup  stoned  raisins  finely  chopped,  and  two  table- 
spoons chopped  citron ;  roll  up  like  jelly  roll,  and  cut  in 
three-fourths  inch  pieces.  Place  pieces  in  pan  close  to- 
gether, flat  side  down.  Again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  When  rolls  are  taken  from  oven,  brush  over  with 
white  of  egg  slightly  beaten,  diluted  with  one-half  table- 
spoon water;  return  to  oven  to  dry  egg,  and  thus  glaze 
top. 

Sweet  French  Rolls 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  egg 

y^  cup  lukewarm  water  Yolk  one  egg 

Flour  3^  teaspoon  mace 

y^  cup  sugar  ^  *cup  melted  butter 

Scald  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and 
one  and  one-half  cups  flour;  beat  well,  cover,  and  let  rise 
until  light.  Add  sugar,  salt,  eggs  well  beaten,  mace,  and 
butter,  and  enough  more  flour  to  knead ;  knead,  let  rise  again, 
shape,  and  bake  same  as  Salad  Rolls,  or  roll  in  a  long  strip 
to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  spread  with  butter,  roll  up 
like  jelly  roll,  and  cut  in  one-inch  pieces.  Place  pieces  in 
pan  close  together,  flat  side  down.  A  few  gratings  from  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  or  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  extract  may  be 
substituted  in  place  of  mace. 


BREAD   AND  BREAD  MAKING  61 

Luncheon  Holla 

^  cup  scalded  milk  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  , 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

%  teaspoon  salt  Few   gratings   from    rind    of 

}^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lemon 

2  tablespoons  lukewarm  water  Flour 

Add  sugar  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add  dis- 
solved yeast  cake  and  three-fourths  cup  flour.  Cover  and 
let  rise;  then  add  butter,  egg  well  beaten,  grated  rind  of 
lemon,  and  one  and  one-fourth  cups  flour.  Let  rise  again, 
roll  to  one-half  inch  thickness,  shape  with  small  biscuit-cutter, 
place  in  buttered  pan  close  together,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 
These  rolls  may  be  ready  to  serve  in  three  hours  if  one  and 
one-half  yeast  cakes  are  used. 

French  Rusks 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Flour 

^  cup  butter  1  egg 

^  cup  sugar  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  teajpoon  salt  Whites  2  eggs 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  cu^  lukewarm  water 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  scalded  milk ;  when  luke- 
warm add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  three  cups  flour.  Cover 
and  let  rise  ;  add  egg  and  egg  yolks  well  beaten,  and  enough 
flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  again,  and  shape  as  Parker  House 
EoUs. .  Before  baking,  make  three  parallel  creases  on  top  of 
each  roll.  When  nearly  done,  brush  over  with  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  slightly,  diluted  with  one  tablespoon  cold  water  and 
vanilla.     Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Rusks  (Z-wieback) 

%  cup  scalded  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  salt  }i  cup  melted  butter 

2  yeast  cakes       .  3  eggs 

Flour 

Add  yeast  cakes  to  milk  when  lukewarm ;  then  add  salt 
and  one  cup  flour,  and  let  rise  until  very  light.  Add  sugar, 
batter,  eggs  unbeaten,  and  flour  enough  to  handle. 


62  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Shape  as  finger  rolls,  and  place  close  together  on  a  battered 
sheet  in  parallel  rows,  two  inches  apart;  let  rise  again  and 
bake  twenty  minutes.  "When  cold,  cut  diagonally  in  one- 
half  inch  slices,  and  brown  evenly  in  oven. 

German  CoflFee  Bread 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  egg 

%  cup  butter,  or  butter  and  }^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

lard  )^  eup  lukewarm  milk 

^  cup  sugar  ^  cup  raisins  stoned  and 
^  teaspoon  salt  cut  in  pieces 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  j-east  cake,  egg  well  beaten,  flour  to  make  stiff 
batter,  and  raisins;  cover,  and  let  rise  over  night;  in  morn- 
ing spread  in  buttered  dripping-pan  one-half  inch  thick. 
Cover  and  let  rise  again.  Before  baking,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg^  and  cover  with  following  mixture :  Melt  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  one-third  cup  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoon cinnamon.  When  sugar  is  partially  melted,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour. 

Coffee  Cakes  (Brioche) 

1  cup  scalded  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

4  yolks  of  eggs  2  yeast  cakes  . 

3  eggs  ^  teaspoon  extract  lemon  oi 

^  cup  butter  2  pounded  cardamou  seeds 

4^  cups  flour 

French  Confectioner 

Cool  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cakes,  and  when 
they  are  dissolved  add  remaining  ingredients,  and  beat 
thoroughly  with  hand  ten  minutes  ;  let  rise  six  hours.  Keep 
in  ice-box  over  night;  in  morning  turn  on  floured  board,  roll 
in  long  rectangular  piece  one-fourth  inch  thick  ;  spread  with 
softened  butter,  fold  from  sides  toward  centre  to  make  three 
layers.  Cut  off  pieces  three-fourths  inch  wide;  cover  and 
let  rise.  Take  each  piece  separately  in  hands  and  twist  from 
ends  in  opposite  directions,  coil  and  bring  ends  together  at 
top  of  cake.  Let  rise  in  pans  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven;   cool  and  brush  over  with  confectioners' 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  63 

sugar,  moistened  with  boiling  water  to  spread,  and  flavored 
with  vanilla. 

Coffee  Rolls 

2  cups  milk  1  egg 

1^  yeast  cakes  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Butter  y  1  teaspoon  salt 

Lard    >•  >^  cup  each  Melted  butter 

Sugar  )  Confectioners*  sugar 

Flour  Vanilla 

Scald  milk,  when  lukewarm  add  yeast  cakes,  and  as 
soon  as  dissolved  add  three  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Beat 
thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  ;  then  add. butter,  lard,  sugar, 
egg  unbeaten,  cinnamon,  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  knead. 
Knead  until  well  mixed,  cover,  and  let  rise.  Turn  mixture 
on  a  floured  cloth.  Roll  into  a  long,  rectangular  piece  one- 
fourth  inch  thick.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  fold  from 
ends  toward  centre  to  make  three  layers  and  cut  off  pieces 
three-fourths  inch  wide.  Cover  and  let  rise.  Take  each 
piece  separately  in  hands  and  twist  from  ends  in  opposite 
directions,  then  shape  in  a  coil.  Place  in  buttered  pans, 
cover,  again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes.  Cool  slightly,  and  brush  over  with  confectioners* 
sugar  moistened  with  boiling  water  and  flavored  with 
vanilla. 

Swedish  Bread 

2J4  cups  scalded  milk  %  cup  sugar 

1  yeast  cake  1  egg,  well  beaten 

Flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

J^  cup  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Add  yeast  cake  to  one-half  cup  miik  which  has  been  allowed 
to  cool  until  lukewarm ;  as  soon  as  dissolved  add  one-half 
cup  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise.  When  light, 
add  remaining  milk  and  four  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Stir 
until  thoroughly  mixed,  cover,  and  again  let  rise ;  then  add 
remaining  ingredients  and  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Toss 
on  a  floured  cloth  and  knead,  using  one-half  cup  flour,  cover^ 
and  again  let  rise.  Shape  as  Swedish  Tea  Braid  or  Tea 
Eiag  I  or  II,  and  bake. 


64  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Swedish  Tea  Braid.  Cut  off  three  pieces  of  mixture  of 
equal  size  and  roll,  using  the  hands,  in  pieces  of  uniform 
size ;  then  braid.  Put  on  a  buttered  sheet,  cover,  let  rise, 
brush  over  with  yolk  of  one  egg^  slightly  beaten,  and  diluted 
with  one-half  tablespoon  cold  water,  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  blanched  almonds.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Swedish  Tea  Ring  I.  Shape  as  tea  braid,  form  in  shape 
of  ring,  and  proceed  as  with  tea  braid,  having  almonds 
blanched  and  cut  in  slices  crosswise. 

Swedish  Tea  Ring  II.  Take  one-third  Swedish  Bread 
mixture  and  shape,  using  the  hands,  in  a  long  roll.  Put  on 
an  unfloured  board  and  roll,  using  a  rolling-pin,  as  thinly  as 
possible.  Mixture  will  adhere  to  board  but  may  be  easily 
lifted  with  a  knife.  Spread  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  chopped  blanched  almonds  or  cinnamon. 
Roll  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  a  piece  from  each  end  and  join  ends 
to  form  ring.  Place  on  a  buttered  sheet,  and  cut  with 
scissors  and  shape  (see  illustration).  Let  rise,  and  proceed 
as  with  Tea  Ring  I. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 

1  cup  scalded  milk  2^  cups  flour 

^  cup  butter  Melted  butter 

)^  cup  sugar  5  sour  apples 

}^  teaspoon  salt  )^  cup  sugar 

1  yeast  cake  }^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  currants 

Mix  first  four  ingredients.  When  lukewarm  add  yeast 
cake,  eggs  unbeaten,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Cover, 
let  rise,  beat  thoroughly,  and  again  let  rise.  Spread  in  a 
buttered  dripping-pan  as  thinly  as  possible  and  brush  over 
with  melted  butter.  Pare,  cut  in  eighths,  and  remove  cores 
from  apples. 

Press  sharp  edges  of  apples  into  the  dough  in  parallel 
rows  lengthwise  of  pan.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  mixed  with  cin- 
namon and  sprinkle  with  currants.  Cover,  let  rise,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  Cut  in  squares  and 
serve  hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flfivored. 


Swedish  Tea  Rikq  II  BEroaE  baking. —Pa^«  64, 


Swedish  Tea  Ring  II. —  Pa^e  64. 


Raised  Hominy  Muffins.  —  Page  66. 


Pop  Overs.  —  Page  76c 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  66 


Buns 

1  cup  scalded  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  butter  ^  cup  raisins  stoned  and 

y^  cup  sugar  cut  in  quarters 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  1  teaspoon  extract  lemon 

^  cup  lukewarm  water  Flour 

Add  one-half  sugar  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  one  and  one-half  cups  flour ;  cover, 
and  let  rise  until  light;  add  butter,  remaining  sugar,  raisins, 
lemon,  and  flour  to  make  a  dough;  let  rise,  shape  like  bis- 
cuits, let  rise  again,  and  bake.  If  wanted  glazed,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg  before  baking. 

Hot  Cross  Buns 

1  cup  scalded  milk  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 
-   ^  cup  sugar                                    3  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  egg 

%  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  raisins  stoned  and 

%  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  quartered,  or 

^  cup  lukewarm  water  ^  cup  currants 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake,  flour,  cinnamon,  and  ^gg  well  beaten ; 
when  thoroughly  mixed,  add  raisins,  cover,  and  let  rise  over 
night.  In  morning,  shape  in  forms  of  large  biscuits,  place 
in  pan  one  inch  apart,  let  rise,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg, 
and  bake  twenty  minutes;  cool,  and  with  ornamental  frost* 
ing  make  a  cross  on  top  of  each  bun. 

Raised  Muffins 

1  cup  scalded  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  ^  yeast  cake 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  %%g 

1^  cup  sugar  4  cups  flour 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk  and  water;  when  luke- 
warm, add  yeast  cake,  and  when  dissolved,  ^^^  well  beaten, 
and  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  over  night. 
In  morning,  fill  buttered  muffin  rings  two-thirds  full ;  let  rise 
until  rings  are  fuUi  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 


66  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Grilled  Muffins 

Pat  buttered  muflSn  rings  on  a  hot  greased  griddle.  Fill 
one-half  full  with  raised  muffin  mixture,  and  cook  slowly 
until  well  risen  and  browned  underneath ;  turn  muffins  and 
rings  and  brown  the  other  side.  This  is  a  convenient  way 
of  cooking  muffins  when  oven  is  not  in  condition  for 
baking. 

Raised  Hominy  Muffins 

1  cup  warm  cooked  hominy  1  teaspoon  salt 

%^  cup  butter  )^  yeast  cake 

1  cup  scalded  milk  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

3  tablespoons  sugar  3)^  cups  flour 

Mix  first  five  ingredients:  when  lukewarm  add  yeast  cake, 
dissolved  in  lukewarm  water  and  flour.  Cover,  and  let  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  cut  down,  fill  buttered  gem  pahs 
two-thirds  full,  let  rise,  one  hour,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Unless  cooked  hominy  is  rather  stiff  more  flour  will 
be  needed. 

Raised  Rice  Muffins 

Make  same  as  Kais^ed  Hominy  Muffins,  substituting  one 
cup  hot  boiled  rice  in  place  of  hominy,  and  adding  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  until  stiff. 

Raised   Oatmeal  Muffins 

^  cup  scalded  milk  ^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

^  cup  sugar  )^  cup  lukewarm  milk 

1^  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  cold  cooked  oatmeal 

2K  cups  flour 

Add  sugar  and  salt  to  scalded  milk  ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake.  Work  oatmeal  into  flour  with  tips  of 
fingers,  and  add  to.  first  mixture ;  beat  thoroughly,  cover, 
and  let  rise  over  night.  In  morning,  fill  buttered  iron  gem 
pans  two- thirds  full,  let  rise  on  back  of  range  that  pan  may 
gradually  heat  and  mixture  rise  to  fill  pan.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 


BREAD  AND  BBEAD  MAB:ING  67 


Health  Pood  MufBns 

1  cup  warm  wheat  mush  1  tablespoon  butter 

^  cup  brown  sugar  i^  yeast  cake 

%  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

2j^  cups  flour 

Mix  first  four  ingredients,  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
lukewarm  water,  and  flour  ;  then  knead.  Cover,  and  let  rise 
over  night.  In  the  jnorning  cut  down,  fill  buttered  gem  pans 
two-thirds  full,  again  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  mixture,  when  baked  in  a  loaf,  makes  a  delicious  bread. 

Squash  Biscuits 

^  cup  squash  (steamed  and  sifted)  )^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

^  cup  sugar  )^  cup  lukewarm  water 

y^  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  butter 

y^  cup  scalded  milk  2)^  cups  flour 

Add  squash,  sugar,  salt,  and  butter  to  milk;  when  luke- 
warm, add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  flour;  cover,  and  let 
rise  over  night.  In  morning  shape  into  biscuits,  let  rise, 
and  bake. 

Imperial  Muffins 

1  cup  scalded  milk  \%  cups  flour 

^  cup  sugar  1  cup  corn  meal 

%  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  butter 

y^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

Add  sugar  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm  add  dissolved 
yeast  cake,  and  one  and  one-fourth  cups  flour.  Cover,  and 
let  rise  until  light,  then  add  corn  meal,  remaining  flour,  and 
butter.  Let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning  fill  buttered 
muffin  lings  two-thirds  full ;  let  rise  until  rings  are  full  and 
bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Dry  Toast 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth  inch  slices.  Crust  may  or 
may  not  be  removed.  Put  slices  on  wire  toaster,  lock  toaster 
and  place  over  clear  fire  to  dry,  holding  some  distance  from 
coals;  turn  and  dry  other  side.     Hold  nearer  to  coals  and 


68  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 

color  a  golden  brown  on  each  side.  Toast,  if  piled  compactly 
and  allowed  to  stand,  will  soon  become  moist.  Toast  may 
be  buttered  at  table  or  before  sending  to  table. 

Water  Toast 
Dip  slices  of  dry  toast  quickly  in  boiling  salted  water, 
allowing  one-half  teaspoon  salt  to  one  cup  boiling  water. 
Spread  slices  with  butter,  and  serve  at  once. 

MUk  Toast  I 

1  pint  scalded  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  4  tablespoons  cold  water 
2j^  tablespoons  bread  flour  6  slices  dry  toast 

Add  cold  water  gradually  to  flour  to  make  a  smooth,  thin 
paste.  Add  to  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened, 
cover,  and  cook  twenty  minutes ;  then  add  salt  and  butter 
in  small  pieces.  Dip  slices  of  toast  separately  in  sauce ; 
when  soft,  remove  to  serving  dish.  Pour  remaining  sauce 
over  alL 

Milk  Toast  II 

Use  ingredients   given  in  Milk   Toast  I,   omitting  cold 
water,  and  make  as  Thin  White  Sauce.     Dip  toast  in  sauce- 
Brown  Bread  Milk  Toast 

Make  same  as  Milk  Toast,  using  slices  of  toasted  brown 
bread  in  place  of  white  bread.  Brown  bread  is  better 
toasted  by  first  drying  slices  in  oven. 

Cream  Toast 

Substitute  cream  for  milk,  and  omit  butter  in  recipe  for 
Milk  Toast  I  or  II. 

Tomato   Cream  Toast 

1)^  cups  stewed  and  strained  tomato  3  tablespoons  butter 

^  cup  scalded  cream  3  tablespoons  flou.T 

^  teaspoon  soda  %  teaspoon  salt 
6  slices  toast 

Put  butter  in  saucepan;  when  melted  and  bubbling,  add 
flour,  mixed  with  salt,  and  stir  in  gradually  tomato,  to  which 


BREAD  AND  BREAD  MAKING  69 

soda  has  been  added,  then  add  cream.     Dip  slices  of  toast 
in  sauce.     Serve  as  soon  as  made. 

German  Toast 

8  eggs  2  tablespoons  sugar 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  milk 

6  slices  stale  bread 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  sugar,  and  milk ;  strain  into 
a  shallow  dish.  Soak  bread  in  mixture  until  soft.  Cook  on 
a  hot,  well-greased  griddle;  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and 
brown  other  side.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  luncheon,  or  with 
a  sauce  for  dessert. 

Brewis 

Break  stale  bits  or  slices  of  brown  and  white  bread  in 
small  pieces,  allowing  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  bread  to 
one-half  cup  white  bread.  Butter  a  hot  frying-pan,  put  in 
bread,  and  cover  with  equal  parts  milk  and  water.  Cook 
until  soft ;  add  butter  and  salt  to  taste. 

Bread  for  Garnishing 

Dry  toast  is  often  used  for  garnishing,  cut  in  various 
shapes.  Always  shape  before  toasting.  Cubes  of  bread, 
toast  points,  and  small  oblong  pieces  are  most  common. 
Cubes  of  stale  bread,  from  which  centres  are  removed,  are 
fried  in  deep  fat  and  called  croustades;  half-inch  cubes, 
browned  in  butter,  or  fried  in  deep  fat,  are  called  crofttons. 

Uses  for  Stale  Bread 

All  pieces  of  bread  should  be  saved  and  utilized.  Large 
pieces  are  best  for  toast.  Soft  stale  bread,  from  which 
crust  is  removed,  when  crumbed,  is  called  stale  breadcrumbs, 
or  raspings,  and  is  used  for  puddings,  griddle- cakes,  omelets, 
scalloped  dishes,  and  dipping  food  to  be  fried.  Remnants 
of  bread,  from  which  crusts  have  not  been  removed,  are 
dried  in  oven,  rolled,  and  sifted.  These  are  called  dry  bread 
crumbs,  and  are  useful  for  crumbing  croquettes,  cutlets, 
fish,  meat,  etc. 


70  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK. 


CHAPTER  V 

BISCUITS,  BREAKFAST  CAKES,  AND  SHORTCAKES 

Batters,  Sponges,   and  Doughs 

BATTER  is  a  mixture  of  flour  and  some  liquid  (usually 
combined  with  other  ingredients,  as  sugar,  salt,  eggs, 
etc.),  of  consistency  to  pour  easily,  or  to  drop  from  a  spoon. 
Batters   are   termed    thin    or    thick,    according   to  their 
consistency. 

Sponge  is  a  batter  to  which  yeast  is  added. 
Dough  differs  from  batter  inasmuch  as  it  is  stiff  enough  to 
be  handled. 

Cream  Scones 

2  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  power  4  tablespoons  butter 

2  teaspoons  sugar  2  eggs 

y^  cup  cream 

Mix  and  sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar,  and 
salt.  Rub  in  butter  with  tips  of  fingers;  add  eggs  well 
beaten,  (reserving  a  small  amount  of  unbeaten  white)  and 
cream.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat,  and  roll  to  three-fourths 
inch  in  thickness.  Cut  in  squares,  brush  with  reserved  white, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Baking  Pov^der  Biscuit  I 

2  cups  bread  flour  1  tablespoon  lard 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  milk  and  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  in  equal  parts 

'  1  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  and  sift  twice. 

Work  ii}  butter  and  lard  with  tips  of  fingers ;  add  gradu- 
ally the  liquid,  mixing  with  knife  to  a  soft  dough.  It  is 
impossible  to  determine  the  exact  amount  of  liquid,  owing 


BISCUITS,   BREAKFAST  CAKES,   ETC.  71 

to  differences  in  flour.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat  and 
roll  liglitly  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Shape  with  a  bis- 
cuit-cutter. Place  on  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  If  baked  in  too  slow  an  oven,  the 
gas  will  escape  before  it  has  done  its  work. 

Baking  Po"wder  Biscuit  II 

2  cups  bread  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  milk 

3^  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  bake  as  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  I. 

Emergency  Biscuit 

Use  recipe  for  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  I  or  II,  with  the 
addition  of  more  milk,  that  mixture  may  be  dropped  from 
spoon  without  spreading.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered 
pan,  one-half  inch  apart.  Brush  over  Y(Wi  mUk,  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  eight  minutes. 

Fruit  Rolls  (Pin  "WTieel  Biscuit) 

2  cups  flour  %  cup  milk 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  ^^  cup  stoned  raisins 

}^  teaspoon  salt  (finely  chopped) 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  citron 

2  tablespoons  butter  (finely  chopped) 

3^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mix  as  Baking  Powder  Biscuit  II.  Roll  to  one-fourth  inch 
thickness,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  and  sprinkle  with 
fruit,  sugar,  and  cinnamon.  Roll  like  a  jelly  roll;  cut  off 
pieces  three-fourths  inch  in  thickness.  Place  on  buttered 
tin,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Currants  may  be 
used  in  place  of  raisins  and  citron. 

Twin  Mountain  Muifina 

1^  cup  butter  1  egg 

3^  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  bread  flour 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter ;  add  sugar  and  egg  well  beaten ;  sift 
baking  powder  with  flour,  and  add  to  the  first  mixture,  alter- 


72  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

nating  with  milk.     Bake  in  buttered  tin  gem  pans  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

One  Egg  Muffins  I 

3)^  cups  flour  1}{  cups  milk 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder        3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  gradually  milk,  egg 
well  beaten,  and  melted  butter.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans 
twenty-five  minutes.  If  iron  pans  are  used  they  must  be 
previously  heated.  This  recipe  makes  thirty  muffins.  Use 
half  the  proportions  given  and  a  small  egg,  if  half  the  num- 
ber is  required. 

One  Egg  Muffins  II 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder     1  cup  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  egg 
Mix  and  bake  as  One  Egg  Muffin  I. 

Berry  Muffins  I  (without  eggs) 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoon  butter 

^  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk  (scant) 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  berries 

}{  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  work  in  butter  with  tips  of 
fingers ;  add  milk  and  berries. 

Berry  Muffins  II 

3=^  cup  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1^  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

2^  cups  flour  "  1  cup  berries 

Cream  the  butter;  add  gradually  sugar  and  egg  well 
beaten ;  mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  reserv- 
ing one-fourth  cup  flour  to  be  mixed  with  berries  and  added 
last  J  the  remainder  alternately  with  milk. 


BISCUITS,  BREAKFAST  CAKES,  ETC.  73 

Queen  of  Muffins 

.  ^  cup  butter  %  cup  milk  (scant) 

y^  cup  sugar  \%  cups  flour 

1  eigg  2%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  bake  same  as  Twin  Mountain  Muffins. 
Rice  Muffins 

2)^  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

^  cup  hot  cooked  rice  1  egg 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  )^  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking  powder;  add 
one-half  milk,  egg  well  beaten,  the  remainder  of  the  milk 
mixed  with  rice,  and  beat  thoroughly ;  then  add  butter. 
Bake  in  buttered  muffin  rings  placed  in  buttered  pan  or 
buttered  gem  pans. 

Oatmeal  Muffins 

1  cup  cooked  oatmeal  }4.  teaspoon  salt 
\%  cups  flour                            %  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  ^gg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder     2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  and  bake  as  Rice  Muffins. 

Graham  Muffins  I 

1^  cups  Graham  flour  J^  cup  molasses 

1  cup  flour  ^  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  milk  to  molasses,  and 
combine  mixtures  ;  then  add  butter. 

Graham  Muffins  II 
1  cup  Graham  or  entire  wheat      1  teaspoon  salt 

flour  1  cup  milk 

^  cup  flour  1  ^gg 

^  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  milk  gradually,  egg 
well  beaten,  and  melted  butter;  bake  in  hot  oven  in  buttered 
gem  pans  twenty-five  minutes. 


74  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOO» 

Rye  Mti£Qn8  t 
Hake  as  Graham  Muffins  II,  substituting  rye  meal  foi 
Graham  flour. 

Rye  Muffins  II 

ll^  cups  rye  meal  )4'  cup  molasses 

l^  cups  flour  1^  cups  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  bake  as  Graham  Muffins  II,  adding  molasses 
with  milk. 

Rye  Gtema 

1^  cups  rye  flour  j^  cup  molasses 

13^  cups  flour  1^  cups  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses,  milk,  eggg 
well  beaten,  and  butter.  Bake  in  hot  oven  in  buttered  gem 
pans  twenty-five  minutes. 

Corn  Meal  Gems 

)^  cup  com  meal  1  tablespoon  melted  buttex 

1  cup  flour  }4  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  ^  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg 

Mix  and  bake  as  Graham  Muffins  II. 

Hominy  Gems 

j^  cup  hominy  2  cup  com  meal 

^  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  sugar 

^  cup  boiling  water  3  tablespoons  buttei- 

1  cup  scalded  milk  2  eggs 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Add  hominy  mixed  with  salt  to  boiling  water  and  let  stantS 
until  hominy  absorbs  water.  Add  scalded  milk  to  corn  me«l, 
then  add  sugar  and  butter.  Combine  mixtures,  cool  slig>itly, 
add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick,  and  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff.  Sift  in  baking  powder-  aiid  beat  thor- 
oughly.    Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans. 


BISCUITS,   BREAKFAST  CAKES,   ETC.  75 

Berkshire  Muffins 

%  cup  corn  meal  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  flour  %  cup  scalded  milk  (scant) 

y^  cup  cooked  rice  1  ^^^ 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Turn  scalded  milk  on  meal,  let  stand  five  minutes;  add 
rice,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  remaining  dry  ingre- 
dients. Add  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten,  butter,  and  white  of 
egg  beaten  stiff  and  dry. 

Golden  Corn  Cake 

1  cup  corn  meal  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  milk 

li  cup  sugar  1  Q^g 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  milk,  ^gg  well  beaten, 
and  butter;  bake  in  shallowed  buttered  pan  in  hot  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

Corn  Cake   (s-weetened  -vo^ith  Molasses) 

1  cup  corn  meal  ^  cup  molasses 

^  cup  flour  \  cup  milk 

33^  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  ^g^ 

1   teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  bake  as  Golden  Corn  Cake,  adding  molasses  to 
milk. 

White  Corn  Cake 

}>^  cup  butter  1)^  cups  white  corn  meal 

y^  cup  sugar  1>^  cups  flour 

lineups  milk  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Whites  3  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually;  add  milk,  alter- 
nating with  dry  ingredients,  mixed  and  sifted.  Beat  thor- 
oughly; add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  buttered 
cake  pan  thirty  minutes. 


76  BOSTON    COOKING -SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Rich  Corn  Cake 

1  cup  corn  meal  }4.  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  white  flour  %  cup  milk 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder    2  eggs 

^  cup  sugar  i^  cup  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk,  gradually,  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  butter.  Bake  in  a  buttered,  shallow  pan, 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Susie's  Spider  Corn  Cake 

1^  cups  com  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sour  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  soda,  salt,  and  corn  meal ;  gradually  add  eggs  well 
beaten  and  milk.  Heat  frying-pan,  grease  sides  and  bottom 
of  pan  with  butter,  turn  in  the  mixture,  place  on  middle  grate 
in  hot  oven,  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 

"White  Corn  Meal  Cake 

1  cup  scalded  milk  %  ^'^P  white  corn  meal 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Add  salt  to  corn  meal,  and  pour  on  gradually  milk.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  shallow  pan  to  the  depth  of  one-fourth  inch. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crisp.  Split  and  spread  with 
butter. 

Pop-overs 

1  cup  flour  J^  cup  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

%  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Mix  salt  and  flour;  add  milk  gradually,  in  order  to 
obtain  a  smooth  batter.  Add  egg,  beaten  until  light,  and 
butter ;  beat  two  minutes,  —  using  egg-beater,  —  turn  into 
hissing  hot  buttered  iron  gem  pans,  and  bake  thirty  to 
thirty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  They  may  be  baked 
in  buttered  earthen  cups,  when  the  bottom  will  have  a 
glazed  appearance.  Small  round  iron  gem  pans  are  best 
for  Pop-overs. 


BISCUITS,  BREAKFAST  CAKES,  ETC.  77 

Graham  Pop-overs 

^  cup  entire  wheat  flour  Jg  cup  milk 

}4  cup  flour  1  egg 

1^  teaspoon  salt  i^  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Prepare  and  bake  as  Pop-overs. 

Breakfast  Puffs 

1  cup  flour  1^  cup  milk 

^  cup  water 

Mix  milk  and  water ;  add  gradually  to  flour,  and  beat  with 
egg-beater  until  very  light.     Bake  same  as  Pop-overs. 

Fadges 
1  cup  entire  wheat  flour  1  cup  cold  water 

Add  water  gradually  to  flour,  and  beat  with  egg-beater 
until  very  light.     Bake  same  as  Pop-overs, 

Zante   Muffins 

^  cup  butter  2  cups  corn  meal 

^  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

1^  cups  milk  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

J^  cup  currants 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar,  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  milk;  then  add  dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted,  and 
currants.     Bake  in  buttered  individual  tins. 

Maryland  Biscuit 
1  pint  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  lard  Milk  and  water  in  equal  quantities 

Southern  Pupil 

Mix  and  sift  flour  and  salt;  work  in  lard  with  tips  of  fin- 
gers, and  moisten  to  a  stiff  dough.  Toss  on  slightly  floured 
board,  and  beat  with  rolling-pin  thirty  minutes,  continually 
folding  over  the  dough.  Roll  one-third  inch  in  thickness, 
shape  with  round  cutter  two  inches  in  diameter,  prick  with 
fork,  and  place  on  a  buttered  tin.  Bake  twenty  minuteg  io 
hot  oven. 


78  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 


OEIDDLE-CAEES 

Sour  Milk  Griddle-oakes 
2^  cups  flour  2  cups  sour  milk 

%  teaspoon  salt  1^  teaspoons  soda 

legg' 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  salt,  and  soda;  add  sour  milk,  and 
egg  well  beaten.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  greased  hot  grid- 
dle ;  cook  on  one  side.  When  puffed,  full  of  bubbles,  and 
cooked  on  edges,  turn,  and  cook  other  side.  Serve  with 
butter  and  maple  syrup. 

S^Tveet  Milk  Griddle-cakes 
3  cups  flour  >^  cup  sugar 

\%  tablespoons  baking  powder  2  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  ^g% 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  beat  ^%^^  add  milk,  and 
pour  slowly  on  first  mixture.  Beat  thoroughly,  and  add 
butter.  Cook  same  as  Sour  Milk  Griddle-cakes.  Begin 
cooking  cakes  at  once  or  more  baking  powder  will  be 
required. 

Entire  Wheat  Giiddle-cakes 
)^  cup  entire  wheat  flour  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  Qgg 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1^  cups  milk 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Prepare  and  cook  same  as  Sweet  Milk  Griddle-cakes. 
Corn   Griddle-oakes 

2  cups  flour  K  cup  sugar 

%  cup  corn  meal  1%,  cups  boiling  water 

\%  tablespoons  baking  powder  1)^  cups  milk 

\%  teaspoons  salt  1  ^gz 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Add  meal  to  boiling  water,  and  boil  five  minutes;  turn 
into  bowl,  add  milk,  and  remaining  dry  ingredients  mixed 
and  sifted,  then  the  ^g^  well  beaten,  and  butter.  Cook  same 
as  other  griddle-cakes. 


BISCUITS,  BREAKFAST  CAKES,  ETC.  79 

Rice  Griddle-cakes  I 

2}4  cups  flour  1^  cup  sugar 

j^  cup  cold  cooked  rice  1)^  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder  1  egg 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  rice  with  tips  of 
fingers ;  add  egg  well  beaten,  milk,  and  butter.  Cook  same 
as  other  griddle-cakes. 

Rice  Griddle-cakes  II 

1  cup  milk  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  warm  boiled  rice  Whites  2  eggs 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

J^  cup  flour 

Pour  milk  over  rice  and  salt,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon  color,  butter,  flour,  and  fold  in  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry. 

Bread  Griddle-cakes 

\%  cups  fine  stale  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

\%  cups  scalded  milk  ^  cup  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Add  milk  and  butter  to  crumbs,  and  soak  until  crumbs 
are  soft;  add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  flour,  salt,  and  baking 
powder  mixed  and  sifted.    Cook  same  as  other  griddle-cakes. 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

^  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  }/i  yeast  cake 

2  cups  scalded  milk  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

%  teaspoon  salt  \%  cups  buckwheat  flour 

1  tablespoon  molasses 

Pour  milk  over  crumbs,  and  soak  thirty  minutes;  add  salt, 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  w^ater,  and  buckwheat  to 
make  a  batter  thin  enough  to  pour.  Let  rise  over  night ;  in 
the  morning,  stir  well,  add  molasses,  one- fourth  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  lukewarm  water,  and  cook  same 
as  griddle-cakes.  Save  enough  batter  to  raise  another  mixing, 
instead  of  using  yeast  c&ks ;  It  will  require  one-half  cup. 


80  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

WafEles 
1^  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Yolks  2  eggs 

^  teaspoon  salt  Whites  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  milk  gradually,  yolks 
of  eggs  well  beaten,  butter,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff; 
cook  on  a  greased  hot  waffle-iron.    Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

A  waffle-iron  should  fit  closely  on  range,  be  well  heated 
on  one  side,  turned,  heated  on  other  side,  and  thoroughly 
greased  before  iron  is  filled.  In  filling,  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  mixture  in  each  compartment  near  centre  of  iron,  cover, 
and  mixture  will  spread  to  just  fill  iron.  If  sufficiently 
heated,  it  should  be  turned  almost  as  soon  as  filled  and  cov- 
ered. In  using  a  new  iron,  special  care  must  be  taken  iu 
greasing,  or  waffles  will  stick. 

"Waffles  with  Boiled  Cider 

Follow  directions  for  making  Waffles.     Serve  with 
Boiled  Cidejr.     Allow  twice  as  much  cider  as  sugar,  and 
let  boil  until  of  a  syrup  consistency. 

Rice  Waffles 

1^  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  cold  cooked  rice  )^  teaspoon  salt 

\y^  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  work  in  rice  with  tips  of 
fingers ;  add  milk,  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten,  butter,  and  white 
of  egg  beaten  stiff.     Cook  same  as  Waffles. 

Virginia  Waffles 

\}^  cups  boiling  water  1^  tablespoons  baking  powder 

y^  cup  white  corn  meal  \%  teaspoons  salt 

13^  cups  milk  Yolks  2  eggs 

3  cups  flour     ■  Whites  2  eggs 

3  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Cook  meal  in  boiling  water  twenty  minutes  ;  add  milk,  dry 
ingredients  mixed  and  sifted,  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  but- 
ter, and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.    Cook  same  as  Waffles. 


Waffles.  —  Page  80. 


STRAWBEaRT  Shortcake.  —  Page  84. 


Shirred  Egg.  —  Page  97. 


um  "!■  -' ''  v!Wf^~<!m)m 


_^ 


Kggs  a  la  Commodore.  —  Page  97, 


BISCUITS,   BREAKFAST   CAKES,   ETC.  81 

Raised  WafEles 

1%  cups  milk  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  Yolks  2  eggs 

1^  yeast  cake  Whites  2  eggs 

Scald  milk ;  add  salt  and  butter,  and  when  lukewarm,  add 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water,  and  flour.  Beat  well ;  let  rise 
over  night;  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Cook  same  as  Waffles.  By  using  a  whole 
yeast  cake,  the  mixture  will  rise  in  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Fried  Drop  Cakes 

11^  cups  flour  }4  cup  sugar 

2}^  teaspoons  baking  powder  j^  cup  milk 

}£  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Beat  egg  until  light ;  add  milk,  dry  ingredients  mixed  and 
sifted,  and  melted  butter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  hot,  new, 
deep  fat ;  fry  until  light  brown  and  cooked  through,  which 
must  at  first  be  determined  by  piercing  with  a  skewer,  or 
breaking  apart.  Remove  with  a  skimmer,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper. 

Rye  Drop  Cakes 

^  cup  rye  meal  K  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  molasses 

2)4  teaspoons  baking  powder  }4  cup  milk 
legg 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  milk  gradually,  molas- 
ses, and  egg  well  beaten.     Cook  same  as  Fried  Drop  Cakes. 

Raised  Doughnuts 

1  cup  milk  K  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed 

1^  yeast  cake  1  cup  light  brown  sugar 

}^  cup  lukewarm  water  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  }4  grated  nutmeg 

Flour     . 

Scald  and  cool  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  water,  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter; 

6 


82  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

let  rise  over  night.  In  morning  add  shortening  melted, 
sugar,  eggs  well  beaten,  nutmeg,  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough ;  let  rise  again,  and  if  too  soft  to  handle,  add 
more  flour.  Toss  on  floured  board,  pat,  and  roll  to  three- 
fourths  inch  thickness.  Shape  with  cutter,  and  work  between 
hands  until  round.  Place  on  floured  board,  let  rise  one 
hour,  turn,  and  let  rise  again ;  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.     Cool,  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Doughnuts  I 

1  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2%  tablespoons  butter  34  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  eggs  3^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  milk  1}4,  teaspoons  salt 

Flour  to  roll 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  one-half  sugar.  Beat  Qgg  until 
light,  add  remaining  sugar,  and  combine  mixtures.  Add 
three  and  one-haif  cups  flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder,  salt,  and  spices  ;  then  enough  more  flour  to  make 
dough  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Toss  one-third  of  mixture  on 
floured  board,  knead  slightly,  pat,  and  roll  out  to  one-fourth 
inch  thickness.  Shape  with  a  doughnut  cutter,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  take  up  on  a  skewer,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Add 
trimmings  to  one-half  remaining  mixture,  roll,  shape,  and 
fry  as  before ;  repeat.  Doughnuts  should  come  quickly  to 
top  of  fat,  brown  on  one  side,  than  be  turned  to  brown  on 
the  other ;  avoid  turning  more  than  once.  The  fat  must  be 
kept  at  a  uniform  temperature.  If  too  cold,  doughnuts  will 
absorb  fat;  if  too  hot,  doughnuts  will  brown  before  suffi- 
ciently risen.     See  rule  for  testing  fat. 

Doughnuts  II 

4  cups  flour  }^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

\}4.  teaspoons  salt  %  tablespoon  butter 

1%  teaspoons  soda  1  cup  sugar 

1%  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  1  cup  sour  milk 

"^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  1  egg 

Put  flour  in  shallow  pan ;  add  salt,  soda,  cream  of  tartar, 
and  spices.  Work  in  butter  with  tips  of  fingers  ;  add  sugar, 
egg  well  beaten,  and  soiur  milk.     Stir  thoroughly,  and  toss 


BISCUITS,   BREAKFAST  CAKES,  BTOc  83 

on  board  thickly  dredged  with  flour;  knead  slightly,  using 
more  flour  if  necessary.  Pat  and  roll  out  to  one-fourth  inch 
thickness ;  shape,  fry,  and  drain.  Sour-milk  doughnuts  may 
be  turner?  as  soon  as  they  come  to  top  of  fat,  and  frequently 
afterwards. 

Doughnuts  III 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  soda 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  salt 

1}4  cups  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Flour 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  ;  shape,  fry,  and  drain. 

Crullers 
J^  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Yolks  2  eggs  3}^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Whites  2  eggs  1  cup  milk 

Powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mix  flour,  nutmeg, 
and  baking  powder ;  add  alternately  with  milk  to  first  mix- 
ture; toss  on  floured  board,  roll  thin,  and  cut  in  pieces  three 
inches  long  by  two  inches  wide  ;  make  four  one-inch  parallel 
gashes  crosswise  at  equal  intervals.  Take  up  by  running 
finger  in  and  out  of  gashes,  and  lowei  into  deep  fat.  Fry 
same  as  Doughnuts  I. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  I 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  ^  cup  milk 

}£  teaspoon  salt  }^  cup  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  sift  twice,  work  in  butter  with  tips 
of  fingers,  and  add  milk  gradually.  Toss  on  floured  board, 
divide  in  two  parts.  Pat,  roll  out,  and  bake  twelve  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven  in  buttered  Washington  pie  or  round  layer  cake 
tins.  Split,  and  spread  with  butter.  Sweeten  strawberries 
to  taste,  place  on*back  of  range  until  warmed,  crush  slightly, 
and  put  between  and  on  top  of  Short  Cakes ;  cover  top  with 
Cream  Sauce  Ic 


84  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  II 

2  cups  ffour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  }^  cup  butter 

%  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  milk 

Mix  same  as  Strawberry  Short  Cake  I.  Toss  and  roll  on 
floured  board.  Put  in  round  buttered  tin,  and  shape  with 
back  of  hand  to  fit  pan. 

Rich  Strawberry  Short  Cake 

2  cups  flour  Few  grains  nutmeg 

>^  cup  sugar  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  butter 
}^  teaspoon  salt  3^  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift  twice,  work  in  shortening 
with  tips  of  fing-ers,  add  Qgg  well  beaten,  and  milk.  Bake 
same  as  Strawberry  Short  Cake  II.  Split  cake  and  spread 
under  layer  with  Cream  Sauce  II.  Cover  with  strawberries 
which  have  been  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar;  again 
spread  with  sauce,  and  cover  with  upper  layer. 
Fruit  Short  Cake 
^  cup  butter  ^  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

1  Qgg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  egg  well 
beaten.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  adding 
alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Beat  thoroughly,  and 
bake  in  a  buttered  round  tin.  Cool,  spread  thickly  with 
sweetened  fruit,  and  cover  with  Cream  Sauce  I  or  II. 
Fresh  strawberries,  peaches,  apricots,  raspberries,  or  canned 
quince  or  pineapple  may  be  used.  When  canned  goods  are 
used,  drain  fruit  from  syrup  and  cut  in  pieces.  Dilute 
cream  for  Cream  Sauce  with  fruit  syrup  in  place  of  milk. 

Any  shortcake  mixture  may  be  made  for  individual  ser- 
vice by  shaping  with  a  large  biscuit  cutter ;  or  mixture  may 
be  baked  in  a  shallow  cake  pan,  centre  removed  and  filled 
with  fruit,  and  pieces  baked  separately  to  introduce  to 
represent  bandies* 


CEBEALS 


86  L 


CHAPTER  VI 
CEREALS 

CEREALS  (cultivated  grasses)  rank  first  among  vege- 
table foods ;  being  of  hardy  growth  and  easy  culti- 
vation, they  are  more  widely  diffused  over  the  globe  than 
any  of  the  flowering  plants.  They  include  wheat,  oats, 
rye,  barley,  maize  (Indian  corn),  and  rice ;  some  authori- 
ties place  buckwheat  among  them.  Wheat  probably  is  the 
most  largely  consumed ;  next  to  wheat,  comes  rice. 

TABLE   SHOWING  COMPOSITION 


Proteid 

Fat 

Starch 

Mineral 
matter 

Wate 

Oatmeal      .... 

15.6 

7.3 

68.0 

1.9 

7.2 

Corn  meal    .... 

.       8.9 

2.2 

75.1 

0.9 

12.9 

Wheat  flour  (spring) 

11.8 

1.1 

75.0 

0.5 

11.6 

Wheat  flour  (winter) 

10.4 

1.0 

75.6 

0.5 

12.5 

Entire  wheat  flour     . 

14.2 

1.9 

70.6 

1.2 

12.1 

Graham  flour   .     .     . 

13.7 

2.2 

70.3 

2.0 

11.8 

Pearl  barley     .     .     .     . 

9.3 

1.0 

77.6 

1.3 

10.8 

Rye  meal     .... 

7.1 

0.9 

78.5 

0.8 

12.7 

Rice 

7.8 

0.4 

79.4 

0.4 

12.4 

Buckwheat  flour   .     .     . 

6.1 

1.0 

77.2 

1.4 

14.3 

Macaroni     .... 

11.7 

1.6 

72.9 

3.0 

10.8 

Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C, 


Macaroni,,  spaghetti,  and  vermicelli  are  made  from  wheaten 
flour,  rich  in  gluten,  moistened  to  a  stiff  dough  with  water, 
and  forced  through  small  apertures  in  an  iron  plate  by 
means  of  a  screw  press.  Various  Italian  pastes  are  made 
from  the  same  mixture.  Macaroni  is  manufactured  to 
some  extent  in  this  country,  but  the  be>.  comes  from  Italy, 


86  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Lagana  and  Pejero,  being  the  favorite  brand.  When  maca- 
roni is  colored,  it  is  done  by  the  use  of  saffron,  not  by  eggs, 
as  is  generally  supposed.  The  only  egg  macaroni  is  manu- 
factured in  strips,  and  comes  from  Minneapolis. 

Macaroni  is  valuable  food,  as  it  is  very  cheap  and  nutri- 
tious ;  but  being  deficient  in  fat,  it  should  be  combined  with 
cream,  butter,  or  cheese,  to  make  a  perfect  food. 

From  cereals  many  preparations  are  made,  used  alone,  or 
in  combination  with  other  food  products.  From  rice  is  made 
rice  flour;  from  oats,  oatmeal,  and  oats  steam-cooked  and 
rolled.  There  are  many  species  of  corn,  the  principal 
varieties  being  white,  yellow,  and  red.  From  corn  is  made 
corn  meal,  — both  white  and  yellow,  —  cornstarch,  hominy, 
maizena,  cerealine,  samp,  and  hulled  corn ;  from  wheat, 
wheaten  or  white  flour,  and  a  variety  of  breakfast  foods. 
Rye  is  used  for  flakes,  meal,  and  flour ;  barley,  for  flour  and 
pearl  barley.  Buckwheat,  throughout  the  United  States,  is 
used  only  when  made  into  flour  for  buckwheat  cakes. 

For  family  use,  cereals  should  be  bought  in  small  quanti- 
ties, and  kept  in  glass  jars,  tightly  covered.  Many  cereal 
preparations  are  on  the  market  for  making  breakfast  mushes, 
put  up  in  one  and  two  pound  packages,  with  directions  for 
cooking.  In  nearly  all  cases,  time  allowed  for  cooking  is 
not  sufficient,  unless  dish  containing  cereal  is  brought  in 
direct  contact  with  fire,  which  is  not  the  best  way.  Mushes 
should  be  cooked  over  hot  water  after  the  first  five  minutes ; 
if  a  double  boiler  is  not  procurable,  improvise  one.  Boiling 
water  and  salt  should  always  be  added  to  cereals,  allowing 
one  teaspoon  salt  to  eacli  cup  of  cereal,  —  boiled  to  soften 
cellulose  and  swell  starch  grains,  salted  to  give  fiavor. 
Indian  meal  and  finely  ground  preparations  should  be  mixed 
with  cold  water  before  adding  boiling  water,  to  prevent 
lumping. 

TABLE  FOR   COOKING  CEREALS 

Kind  Quantity  Water  Time 

Steam-cooked  and  >  ^y  g^  ^^^^^^ 

rolled  oats  > 


CEREALS 


87 


Kind                  Quantity 

Water 

Time 

Steam-cooked  and  ^ 

rolled   rye   and  C     1  cup 

wheats                ) 
Rice  (steamed)  .     .     1  cup 

Indian  meal      .     .     1  cup 
Fine  wheat  break-  >    . 
fast  foods            l^^^'P 

1)^  cups 

20  minutes 

2^-31^  cups 
(according  to 
age  of  rice) 
33^  cups 

33^  cups 

45-60  minutes 

3  hours 
30  minutes 

Oatmeal  (coarse)  .     1  cup 
Hominy  (fine)       .     1  cup 

4  cups 
4  cups 

3  hours 
1  hour 

Oatmeal  Mush  with  Apples 
Core  apples,  leaving  large  cavities ;  pare,  and  cook  until 
soft  in  syrup  made  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  together, 
allowing  one  cup  sugar  to  one  and  one-half  cups  water. 
Fill  cavities  with  oatmeal  mush ;  serve  with  sugar  and 
cream.  The  syrup  should  be  saved  and  re-used.  Berries, 
sliced  bananas,  or  sliced  peaches,  are  acceptably  served  with 
any  breakfast  cereal. 


Cereal  with  Fruit 


^  cup  fine  wheat  breakfast  food 
^  cup  cold  water 
2  cups  boiling  water 


1  teaspoon  salt 
1^  lb.  dates,  stoned,  and 
cut  in  pieces 


Mix  cereal,  salt,  and  cold  water ;  add  boiling  water  to 
cereal  placed  on  front  of  range.  Boil  five  minutes,  steam 
in  double  boiler  thirty  minutes  ;  stir  in  dates,  and  serve  with 
cream.     To  serve  for  breakfast,  or  as  a  simple  dessert. 


Fried  Mushes 

Mush  left  over  from  breakfast  may  be  packed  in  greased, 
one  pound  baking-powder  box,  and  covered,  which  will  pre- 
vent crust  from  forming.  The  next  morning  remove  from 
box,  slice  thinly,  dip  in  flour,  and  saute.  Serve  with  maple 
syrup. 


88  BOSTON  COOKIKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Fried  Corn  Meal  Mush,  or  Fried  Hominy 

Pack  corn  meal  or  hominy  mush  in  greased,  one  pound 
baking-powder  boxes,  or  small  bread  pan,  cool,  and  cover. 
Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  saute  ;  cook  slowly,  if  preferred  crisp 
and  dry.  Where  mushes  are  cooked  to  fry,  use  less  water 
in  steaming. 

Boiled  Rice 

1  cup  rice  2  quarts  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  salt 

French  Chej 

Pick  ovjer  rice ;  add  slowly  to  boiling,  salted  water,  so  as 
not  to  check  boiling  of  water.  Boil  thirty  minutes,  or  until 
soft,  which  may  be  determined  by  testing  kernels.  Old  rice 
absorbs  much  more  water  than  new  rice,  and  takes  longer 
for  cooking.  Drain  in  coarse  strainer,  and  pour  over  one 
quart  hot  water ;  return  to  kettle  in  which  it  was  cooked ; 
cover,  place  on  back  of  range,  and  let  stand  to  dry  off,  when 
kernels  are  distinct.  When  stirring  rice,  always  use  a  fork 
to  avoid  breaking  kernels.  Rice  is  more  satisfactory  when 
soaked  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover. 

Steamed  Rice 

1  cup  rice  2%  to  3)^  cups  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  (according  to  age  of  rice) 

Put  salt  and  water  in  top  of  double  boiler,  place  on 
range,  and  add  gradually  well-washed  rice,  stirring  with 
a  fork  to  prevent  adhering  to  boiler.  Boil  five  minutes, 
cover,  place  over  under  part  double  boiler,  and  steam  forty- 
five  minutes,  or  until  kernels  are  soft ;  uncover,  that  steam 
may  escape.  When  rice  is  steamed  for  a  simple  dessert, 
use  one-half  quantity  of  water  given  in  recipe,  and  steam 
until  rice  has  absorbed  water;  then  add  scalded  milk  for 
remaining  liquid. 

To  wash  rice.  Put  rice  >n  strainer,  place  strainer  over 
bowl  nearly  full  of  cold  water ;  rub  rice  between  hands,  lift 
strainer  from  bowl,  and  change  water.  Repeat  process  three 
or  four  times,  until  water  is  quite  clear. 


CEREALS  89 

Rice  with  Cheese 
Steam  one  cup  rice,  allowing  one  tablespoon  salt ;  cover 
bottom  of  buttered  pudding-dish  with  rice,  dot  over  with 
three-fourths  tablespoon  butter,  sprinkle  with  thin  shavings 
mild  cheese  and  a  few  grains  cayenne ;  repeat  until  rice  and 
one-fourth  pound  cheese  are  used.  Add  milk  to  half  the 
depth  of  contents  of  dish,  cover  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  cheese  melts. 

Rice  a  la  Rlston 
Finely  chop  two  thin  slices  bacon,  add  to  one-half  raw 
medium-sized  cabbage,  finely  chopped;  cover,  and  cook 
slowly  thirty  minutes.  Add  one-fourth  cup  rice,  boiled, 
one-half  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Moisten  with  one-half  cup  White  Stock,  and  cook 
fifteen  minutes. 

Turkish  Pilaf  I 

Wash  and  drain  one-half  cup  rice,  cook  in  one  tablespoon 
butter  until  brown,  add  one  cup  boiling  water,  and  steam 
until  water  is  absorbed.  Add  one  and  three-fourths  cups 
hot  stewed  tomatoes,  cook  until  rice  is  soft,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Turkish  Pilaf  II 

^  cup  washed  rice  1  cup  Brown  Stock,  highly 

%  cup  tomatoes,  stewed  and  seasoned 

strained  3  tablespoons  butter 

Add  tomato  to  stock,  and  heat  tX)  boiling-point ;  add  rice, 
and  steam  until  rice  is  soft ;  stir  in  butter  with  a  fork,  and 
keep  uncovered  that  steam  may  escape.  Serve  in  place  of  a 
vegetable,  or  as  border  for  curried  or  fricasseed  meat. 

Turkish  Pilaf  III 

%  cup  rice  %  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut 

3  tablespoons  butter  in  dice 

^  cup  canned  tomatoes         White  Stock  highly  seasoned 
Salt  and  cayenne 

Cook  rice  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain,  and  pour  over  hot 
water  to  thoroughly  rinse.     Heat  omelet  pan,  add  butter. 


90  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  as  soon  as  butter  is  melted  add  rice.  Cook  three  min- 
utes; then  add  tomatoes,  chicken,  and  enough  stock  to 
moisten.  Cook  five  minutes,  and  season  highly  with  salt  and 
cayenne.     If  not  rich  enough,  add  more  butter. 

Russian  Pilaf 

Follow  recipe  for  Turkish  Pilaf  III,  substituting  cold 
cooked  lamb  in  place  of  chicken,  and  add  a  chicken's  liver 
sauted  in  butter,  then  separated  into  small  pieces. 

Rissoto  Creole 

8  tablespoons  butter  2^  cups  highly  seasoned 

1  cup  rice  Brown  Stock 

Canned  pimentoes 

Melt  butter  in  hot  frying-pan,  add  rice,  and  stir  constantly 
until  rice  is  well  browned.  Add  stock  heated  to  boiling-pointy 
and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  soft.  Turn  on  a  serving  dish, 
garnish  with  pimentoes  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  cover  with 

Creole  Sauce.  Cook  two  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  two 
tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper,  one  tablespoon  chopped 
red  pepper,  or  canned  pimentoes,  and  four  tablespoons 
chopped  fresh  mushrooms,  with  three  tablespoons  butter, 
five  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  tomatoes, 
one  truffie  thinly  sliced,  one-fourth  cup  sherry  wine,  and 
salt  to  taste. 

Boiled  Macaroni 

%  cup  macaroni  broken  in  2  quarts  boiling  water 

inch  pieces  1  tablespoon  salt 

}/^  cup  cream 
Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  minutes  ox 
until  soft,  drain  in  strainer,  pour  over  it  cold  water  to  pre- 
vent pieces  from  adhering;  add  cream,  reheat,  and  season 
with  salt. 

Macaroni  vrith  "White  Sauce 

yi  cup  macaroni  broken  in  2  quarts  boiling  water 

inch  pieces  1  tablespoon  salt 

\}^  cups  White  Sauce 

Cook  as  for  Boiled  Macaroni,  and  reheat  in  White  Sauce. 
"Wkite  Sauce.    Melt  two  tmlilespoona  butter,  add  two  table- 


OEBEALS  91 

spoons  flour  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  pour  on  slowly 
one  and  one-half  cups  scalded  milk. 

Baked  Macaroni 

Put  Macaroni  with  White  Sauce  in  buttered  baking  dish, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese 

Put  a  layer  of  boiled  macaroni  in  buttered  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  ;  repeat,  pom*  over  White  Sauce, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Macaroni  -w^ith  Tomato  Sauce 

Reheat  Boiled  Macaroni  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  To- 
mato Sauce  I,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  serve ;  or  pre- 
pare as  Baked  Macaroni,  using  Tomato  in  place  of  White 
Sauce. 

Macaroni  d  I'ltalienue 

%  cup  macaroni  1)^  cups  Tomato  Sauce  II 

2  quarts  boiling  salted  water  i^  cup  gi-ated  cheese 

%  onion  2  tablespoons  wine 

2  cloves  }^  tablespoon  butter 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water,  with  butter  and 
onion  stuck  with  cloves ;  drain,  remove  onion,  reheat  in  To- 
mato Sauce,  add  cheese  and  wine. 

Macaroni,  Italian  Style 

1  cup  macaroni  1)4  cups  scalded  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  grated  cheese 
2  tablespoons  flour                   Salt  and  paprika 

1^  cup  finely  chopped  cold  boiled  ham 

Break  macaroni  in  one-inch  pieces  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water,  drain,  and  reheat  in  sauce  made  of  butter, 
flour,  and  milk,  to  which  is  added  cheese.  As  soon  as 
cheese  is  melted,  season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  turn 
on  to  a  serving  dish.  Sprinkle  with  bam,  and  gamiflh 
with  parsley. 


92  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

Macaroni  k  la  Milanaise 

Cook  macaroni  as  for  Macaroni  k  I'ltalienne,  reheat  in 
Tomato  Sauce  II,  add  six  sliced  mushrooms,  two  slices 
cooked  smoked  beef  tongue  cut  in  strips,  and  one-half  cup 
grated  cheese. 

Spaghetti 

Spaghetti  may  be  cooked  in  any  way  in  which  macaroni  is 
cooked,  but  is  usually  served  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

It  is  cooked  in  long  strips  rather  than  broken  in  pieces  ; 
to  accomplish  this,  hold  quantity  to  be  cooked  in  the  hand, 
and  dip  ends  in  boiling  salted  water  ;  as  spaghetti  softens  it 
will  bend,  and  may  be  coiled  under  water. 

Knofli 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly  and  add  one-fourth  cup  milk.  Add 
gradually  to  one  cup  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  one  tea- 
spoon salt.  Place  colander  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
turn  in  one-third  mixture,  and  force  through  colander  into 
water,  using  a  potato  masher.  As  soon  as  buttons  come  to 
top  of  water,  remove  with  skimmer  to  hot  vegetable  dish, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  grated  cheese  ;  repeat  until  mix- 
ture is  used.     Let  stand  in  oven  five  minutes,  then  serve. 

Ravioli 
1}4  cups  flour  1^  cup  chopped  cooked  spinach 

J4  egg  1  egg 

Warm  water  Chicken  stock 

^  cup  cracker  crumbs  Salt 

}^  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese     Pepper 

Sift  ^our  on  a  board,  make  depression  in  centre,  drop  in 
one-half  egg,  and  moisten  with  warm  water  to  a  stiff  dough. 
Knead  until  smooth,  cover,  and  let  stand  ten  minutes  ;  then 
roll  as  thin  as  a  sheet  of  paper,  using  a  rolling-pin.  Cut  in 
strips  as  long  as  paste,  and  two  and  three-fourth  inches  wide, 
using  a  pastry  jagger.  Mix  cracker  crumbs,  spinach,  and 
egg;  moisten  with  stock  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  mixture  by  three-fourths  teaspoon  on  lower  half  of  strips 
of  paste,  two  iacfees  ^part.    Fold  upper  part  of  paste  over 


0EBEAL8  93 

lower  part.  Press  edges  together  and  between  mixture  with 
tips  of  thumbs,  then  cut  apart,  using  pastry  jagger.  Cook 
ten  minutes  in  the  liquor  in  which  a  fowl  has  been  cooked,  take 
up  with  skimmer,  arrange  a  layer  on  hot  serving  dish,  sprin- 
kle generously  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  cover  with  To- 
mato Sauce ;  repeat  twice  and  serve  at  once. 
Tomato  Sauce 

y^  cup  butter  Few  grains  pepper 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  1  small  can  condensed  tomato 

^  teaspoon  salt  %  lb.  lean  beef 

Cook  first  four  ingredients  eight  minutes.  Add  tomato, 
1  pint  of  water,  and  beef  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Remove  meat  before  serving.  Ravioli  is  a 
national  Italian  dish,  and  the  cheese  and  condensed  tomato 
may  be  best  bought  of  an  Italian  grocer. 


94  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  VII 
EGGS 

COMPOSITION 

Proteid,  14.9  %  Mineral  matter,  1  % 

Fat,  10.6%  Water,  73.5% 

EGGS,  like  milk,  form  a  typical  food,  inasmuch  as  they 
contain  all  the  elements,  in  the  right  proportion,  neces- 
sary for  the  support  of  the  body.  Their  highly  concentrated, 
nutritive  value  renders  it  necessary  to  use  them  in  combina- 
tion with  other  foods  rich  in  starch  (bread,  potatoes,  etc.). 
In  order  that  the  stomach  may  have  enough  to  act  upon,  a 
certain  amount  of  bulk  must  be  furnished. 

A  pound  of  eggs  (nine)  is  equivalent  in  nutritive  value  to 
a  pound  of  beef.  From  this  it  may  be  seen  that  eggs,  at 
even  twenty-five  cents  per  dozen,  should  not  be  freely  used 
by  the  strict  economist.  Eggs  being  rich  in  proteid  serve  as 
a  valuable  substitute  for  meat.  In  most  families,  their  use 
in  the  making  of  cake,  custard,  puddings,  etc.,  renders  them 
almost  indispensable.  It  is  surprising  how  many  intelligent 
women,  who  look  well  to  the  affairs  of  the  kitchen,  are  satis- 
fied to  use  what  are  termed  "  cooking  eggs " ;  this  shows 
poor  judgment  from  an  economical  standpoint.  Strictly 
fresh  eggs  should  always  be  used  if  obtainable.  An  egg 
after  the  first  twenty -four  hours  steadily  deteriorates.  If 
exposed  to  air,  owing  to  the  porous  structure  of  the  shell, 
there  is  an  evaporation  of  water,  air  rushes  in,  and  decom- 
position takes  place. ' 

White  of  egg  contains  albumen  in  its  purest  form.  Al- 
bumen coagulates  at  a  temperature  of  from  134°  to  160°  F. 
Herein  lies  the  importance  of  cooking  eggs  at  a  low  tempera- 
ture, thus  rendering  them  easy  of  digestion.     Eggs  cooked 


EGGS  95 

in  boiling  water  are  tough  and  horny,  difficult  of  digestion, 
and  should  never  be  served. 

When  eggs  come  from  the  market,  they  should  be  washed, 
and  put  away  in  a  cold  place. 

Ways  of  Determining  Freshness  of  Eggs.  I.  Hold  in  front 
of  candle  flame  in  dark  room,  and  the  centre  should  look 
clear. 

II.  Place  in  basin  of  cold  water,  and  they  should  sink. 

III.  Place  large  end  to  the  cheek,  and  a  warmth  should 
be  felt. 

Ways  of  Keeping  Eggs.  I.  Pack  in  sawdust,  small  end 
down. 

II.  Keep  in  lime  water. 

III.  From  July  to  September  a  large  number  of  eggs  are 
packed,  small  ends  down,  in  cases  having  compartments, 
one  for  each  egg,  and  kept  in  cold  storage.  Eggs  are  often 
kept  in  cold  storage  six  months,  and  then  sold  as  cooking 
eggs. 

Boiled  Eggs 

Have  ready  a  saucepan  containing  boiling  water.  Care- 
fully put  in  with  a  spoon  the  number  of  eggs  desired,  cover- 
ing them  with  water.  Remove  saucepan  to  back  of  range, 
where  water  will  not  boil.  Cook  from  six  to  eight  minutes 
if  liked  "soft-boiled,"  forty  to  forty-five  if  liked  "hard- 
boiled."  Eggs  may  be  cooked  by  placing  in  cold  water  and 
allowing  water  to  heat  gradually  until  the  boiling-point  is 
reached,  when  they  will  be  "soft  boiled."  In  using  hard- 
boiled  eggs  for  making  other  dishes,  when  taken  from  the 
hot  water  they  should  be  plunged  into  cold  water  to  prevent, 
if  possible,  discoloration  of  yolks. 

Eggs  perfectly  cooked  should  be  placed  and  kept  in  water 
at  a  uniform  temperature  of  175°  F. 

Dropped  Eggs  (Poached) 

Have  ready  a  frying-pan  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  salted 
water,  allowing  one-half  tablespoon  salt  to  one  quart  of 
water.  Put  two  or  three  buttered  muffin  rings  in  the  water. 
Break  each  egg  separately  into  a  saucer,  and  carefully  slip 
into  a  muffin  ring.     The  water  should  cover  the  eggs.     When 


96  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

there  is  a  film  over  the  top,  and  the  white  is  firm,  carefully 
remove  with  a  buttered  skimmer  to  circular  pieces  of  but- 
tered toast,  and  let  each  person  season  his  own  egg  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  If  cooked  for  an  invalid,  garnish 
with  four  toast-points  and  a  bit  of  parsley.  An  egg-poacher 
may  be  used  instead  of  muffin  rings. 

Eggs  k  la  Finnoise 
Dropped  Eggs,  served  with  Tomato  Sauce  I. 

Poached  Eggs  k  la  Reine 

Cover  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  with  sliced  fresh 
mushrooms  sauted  in  butter  and  moistened  with  cream. 
Poach  eggs  and  arrange  on  mushrooms.  Pour  over  all 
white  sauce  to  which  grated  Parmesan  cheese  has  been 
added.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  put  in  oven 
to  brown.  Garnish  with  canned  pimentoes  cut  in  fancy 
shapes. 

Eggs  k  la  Suisse 

4  eggs  Salt 

1^  cup  cream  Pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  Cayenne 
2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

Heat  a  small  omelet  pan,  put  in  butter,  and  when  melted, 
add  cream.  Slip  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  When  whites 
are  nearly  firm,  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Finish  cooking,  and 
serve  on  buttered  toast.     Strain  cream  over  the  toast. 

Eggs  Susette 

Wash  and  bake  six  large  potatoes,  cut  slice  from  top  of 
each,  scoop  out  inside,  and  mash.  To  three  cups  mashed 
potato  add  six  tablespoons  finely  chopped  ham,  two  table- 
spoons finely  chopped  parsley,  whites  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  three  tablespoons  butter,  four  tablespoons  cream, 
and  salt  and  pepper.  Line  potato  shells  with  mixture,  place 
in  each  cavity  a  poached  egg,  cover  with  potato  mixture, 
and  bake  until  browned.  Care  must  be  taken  to  have  eggs 
delicately  parched. 


jfiGes  97 

Baked  or  Shirred  Egga 

Butter  an  egg-shirrer.  Cover  bottom  and  sides  with  fine 
cracker  crumbs.  Break  an  egg  into  a  cup,  and  carefully 
slip  into  stirrer.  Cover  with  seasoned  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  white  is  firm  and  crumbs 
brown.  The  shirrers  should  be  placed  on  a  tin  plate,  that 
they  may  be  easily  removed  from  the  oven. 

Eggs  may  be  baked  in  small  tomatoes.  Cut  a  slice  from 
stem  end  of  tomato,  scoop  out  the  pulp,  slip  in  an  egg, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake. 

Eggs  k  la  Tripe 

Serve  dropped  eggs  on  Lobster  Croquettes  (see  p.  558) 
shaped  in  flat  round  cakes  one-half  inch  thick.  Garnish 
with  lobster  claws  and  parsley. 

Eggs  a  la  Benedict 

Split  and  toast  English  muffins.  Saute  circular  pieces  of 
cold  boiled  ham,  place  these  over  the  halves  of  muffins, 
arrange  on  each  a  dropped  egg,  and  pour  around  HoUan- 
daise  Sauce  II  (see  p.  274),  diluted  with  cream  to  make  of 
such  consistency  to  pour  easily. 

Eggs  A  la  Lee 

Cover  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  with  thin  slices 
cold  boiled  ham.  Arrange  on  each  a  dropped  egg,  and  pour 
around 

Mushroom  Pur6e.  Clean  one-fourth  pound  mushrooms, 
break  caps  in  pieces,  and  saute  five  minutes  in  one  table- 
spoon butter.  Add  one  cup  chicken  stock  and  simmer  five 
minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and  thicken  with  one  table- 
spoon each  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Eggs  k  la  Commodore 

Cut  slices  of  bread  in  circular  pieces  and  saute  in  butter. 
Remove  a  portion  of  centre,  leaving  a  rim  one-fourth  inch 
wide.     Spread   cavity  thus   made  with   pate   de   foie  gras 


98  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

puree,  place  a  poached  egg  in  each  and  pour  over  a  rich 
brown  or  Bechamel  sauce  to  which  is  added  a  few  drops 
vinegar.     Garnish  with  chopped  truffles. 

Eggs,  "Waldorf  Style 

Arrange  poached  eggs  on  circular  pieces  of  buttered  toast, 
surround  with  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce  (see  p.  268),  and 
place  a  broiled  mushroom  cap  on  each  egg. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Sauce  Bearnaise 

Poach  six  eggs,  arrange  in  serving  dish,  cover  eggs  alter- 
nately with  red  and  yellow  sauce,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Sauce  Bearnaise.  Beat  yolks  three  eggs  slightly,  add 
three  tablespoons  olive  oil,  two  tablespoons  hot  water,  three- 
fourths  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar,  one- fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Cook  over  boiling  water 
until  mixture  thickens.  Color  one-half  the  sauce  with  Tomato 
Puree  (tomatoes  drained  from  their  liquor,  stewed,  strained, 
and  cooked  until  reduced  to  a  thick  pulp) . 

Scrambled  Eggs 

5  eggs  1^  teaspoon  salt 

J4  cup  milk  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Beat  eggs  slightly  with  silver  fork ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and 
milk.  Heat  omelet  pan,  put  in  butter,  and  when  melted, 
turn  in  the  mixture.  Cook  until  of  creamy  consistency, 
stirring  and  scraping  from  bottom  of  the  pan. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomato  Sauce 

6  eggs  4  tablespoons  butter 

IX  cups  tomatoes  1  slice  onion 

2  teaspoons  sugar  i^  teaspoon  sali 

}4  teaspoon  pepper 

Simmer  tomatoes  and  sugar  five  minutes ;  fry  butter  and 
onion  three  minutes;  remove  onion,  and  add  tomatoes, 
seasonings,  and  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Cook  same  as  Scram- 
bled Eggs.  Serve  with  entire  wheat  bread  or  brown  bread 
toast. 


EGGS  99 

Scrambled  Eggs  -with  Anchovy  Toast 
Spread  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  anchovy  paste. 
Arrange  on  platter,  andfCover  with  scrambled  eggs. 

Eggs  d  la  Buckingham 
Make  five  slices  milk  toast,  and  arrange  on  platter.  Use 
recipe  for  Scrambled  Eggs,  having  the  eggs  slightly  under- 
done. Pour  eggs  over  toast,  sprinkle  with  four  tablespoons 
grated  mild  cheese.  Put  in  oven  to  melt  cheese,  and  finish 
cooking  eggs. 

Eggs  k  la  Turk 
Prepare  Scrambled  Eggs,   and   pour  over   six   slices   of 
toasted  bread.     Put  one  tablespoon  Tomato  Puree  (see  p.  98) 
on  each  piece,  and  in  the  centre  of  pur^e  one-half  tablespoon 
chickens'  livers  sauted  in  bacon  fat. 

Eggs  k  la  Livingstone 

4  eggs  )^  teaspoon  paprika 

)^  cup  stewed  and  2  tablespoons  butter 

strained  tomatoes  Pat^  de  foie  gras 

1^  teaspoon  salt  Finely  chopped  truffles 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  and  add  tomatoes,  salt,  and  paprika. 
Melt  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  add  seasoned  eggs,  and  cook 
same  as  Scrambled  Eggs.  Spread  slices  of  toasted  bread 
with  pate  de  foie  gras.  Pour  over  the  eggs,  a^id  sprinkle 
with  truflfles. 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Country  Style 
Heat  omelet  pan,  put  in  two  tablespoons  butter,  and 
when  melted  turn  in  four  unbeaten  eggs.  Cook  until 
white  is  partially  set,  then  stir  until  cooking  is  completed, 
when  whites  will  be  thoroughly  set.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Buttered  Eggs 
Heat  omelet  pan.     Put  in  one  tablespoon  butter;  when 
melted,   slip  in  an  egg,  and  cook  until  the   white  is  firm. 
Turn  it  over  once  while   cooking.     Add   more   butter  as 
needed,  using  just  enough  to  keep  egg  from  sticking. 


100  BOSTOK  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Buttered  Eggs  with  Tomatoes 
Cut  tomatoes  in  one-third  inch  slices.     Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  butter.     Serve  a 
buttered  egg  on  each  slice  of  tomato. 

Planked  Eggs 

Finely  chop  cold  cooked  corned  beef  or  corned  tongue; 
there  should  be  two-thirds  cup.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
fine  bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  cream  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Spread  mixture  on  plank,  and  make  nests  and 
border  of  duchess  potatoes,  using  rose  tube.  Put  a  buttered 
or  poached  egg  in  each  nest  and  put  in  oven  to  brown 
potato.  Garnish  with  tomatoes  cut  in  halves  and  broiled, 
and  parsley.  Eggs  may  be  sprinkled  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs,  just  before  sending  to  oven,  if  preferred. 

Fried  Eggs 

Fried  eggs  are  cooked  as  Buttered  Eggs,  without  being 

turned.     In   this   case   the  fat  is  taken  by  spoonfuls  aud 

poured  over  the  eggs.     Lard,  crisco,  pork,  ham,  or  bacon  fat 

are  usuaJly  employed,  —  a  considerable  amount  being  used. 

Eggs  k  la  Goldenrod 

3  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  i^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour  5  slices  toast 

1  cup  milk  Parsley 

Make  a  thin  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  milk,  and 
seasonings.  Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs.  Chop 
whites  finely,  and  add  them  to  the  sauce.  Cut  four  slices  of 
toast  in  halves  lengthwise.  Arrange  on  platter,  and  pour 
over  the  sauce.  Force  the  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer  or 
strainer,  sprinkling  over  the  top.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
remaining  toast,  cut  in  points. 

Eggs  au  Gratin 
Arrange    Dropped    Eggs   on   a    shallow    buttered    dish. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese.     Pour  over  eggs  one 
pint  Yellow    Bechamel    Sauce.      Cover   with    stale    bread 


EGGS  101 

crumbs,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.    Brown  in  oven. 
Tomato  or  White  Sauce  may  be  used. 

Eggs  in  Batter 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  fine  stale 

1 1^  tablespoons  thick  cream  bread  crumbs 

3^  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  cream,  bread  crumbs,  and  salt.  Put  one-half  table- 
spoon of  mixture  in  egg-shirrcr.  Slip  in  egg,  and  cover 
with  remaining  mixture.  Bake  six  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. 

Curried  Eggs  I 

3  "  hard-boiled  *'  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  M  teaspoon  curry  powder 

2  tablespoons  flour  i^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  hot  milk 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  and  gradually 
hot  milk.  Cut  eggs  in  eighths  lengthwise,  and  reheat  in 
sauce. 

^  Curried  Eggs  II 

4  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  1  teaspoon  curry  powder 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1^  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion    3^  teaspoon  paprika 

2  tablespoons  flour  1}^  cups  scalded  milk 

}^  cup  cooked  rice 

Chop  whites  of  eggs  and  add  to  sauce  made  of  butter, 
flour,  seasonings,  and  milk,  then  add  rice ;  heat  to  boiling- 
point,  fill  puff  paste  cases  and  sprinkle  with  yolks  of  eggs 
rubbed  through  a  sieve. 

Scalloped  Eggs 

3  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  ^  cup  chopped  cold  meat 

1  pint  White  Sauce  I  ^  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Chop  eggs  finely.  Sprinkle  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking 
dish  with  crumbs,  cover  with  one-half  the  eggs,  eggs  with 
sauce,  and  sauce  with  meat;  repeat.  Cover  with  remain- 
ing crumbs.  Place  in  oven  on  centre  grate,  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown.  Ham  is  the  best  meat  to  use  for  this 
dish-    QUcken^  veal,  or  fish  may  be  used. 


102  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Stuflfed  Eggs 

Cut  four  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  in  halves  crosswise  ;  remove 
yolks,  mash,  and  add  two  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  one  tea- 
spoon vinegar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mustard,  and  salt  and 
cayenne  to  taste.  Add  enough  melted  butter  to  make  mix- 
ture of  the  right  consistency  to  shape.  Make  in  balls  size 
of  original  yolks,  and  refill., whites.  Arrange  on  a  serving 
dish,  pour  around  one  cup  White  Sauce,  cover,  and  reheat. 

Stuffed  Eggs  in  a  Nest 

Cut  *' hard-boiled"  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise.  Remove 
yolks,  and  put  whites  aside  in  pairs.  Mash  yolks,  and  add 
half  the  amount  of  devilled  ham  and  enough  melted  butter 
to  make  of  consistency  to  shape.  Make  in  balls  size  of 
original  yolks,  and  refill  whites.  Form  remainder  of  mixture 
into  a  nest.  Arrange  eggs  in  the  nest,  and  pour  over  one 
cup  White  Sauce  I.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs,  and 
bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Eggs  k  la  Sidney- 
Arrange  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs,  cut  in  thirds  lengthwise,  on 
pieces  of  toasted  bread.     Pour  over  eggs  Soubise  Sauce. 

Eggs  Huntington 

4  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  }{  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  }£  teaspoon  salt 

1}£  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 

}4  cup  white  stock  Grated  cheese 

^  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  stock,  and  milk ;  add 
eggs  finely  chopped  and  salt  and  cayenne.  Fill  buttered 
ramequin  dishes  with  mixture,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese, 
cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Egg  Farci  I 

Cut  *  *  hard-boiled  "  eggs  in  halves,  crosswise.  Remove 
yolks,  and  put  whites  aside  in  pairs.     Mash  yolks,  and  add 


EGGS  103 

equal  amount  of  cold  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  finely  chopped. 
Moisten  with  melted  batter  or  Mayonnaise.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  mustard,  and  cayenne. 
Shape  and  refill  whites. 

Egg  Farci  II 

Clean  and  chop  two  chickens'  livers,  sprinkle  with  onion 
juice,  and  saute  in  butter.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  ''hard- 
boiled  "  eggs  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  one  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  Tabasco  Sauce  to  taste. 
Refill  whites  of  eggs  with  mixture,  cover  with  grated  cheese, 
and  bake  until  cheese  melts.  Serve  in  toast  rings  and  pour 
around  Tomato  Pufee  (see  p.  98). 

Lucaui^iu  Eggs 

5  "hard-boiled"  eggs  1^  cups  White  Sauce  I 

1  cup  cooked  macaroni  Salt  and  paprika 
1^  cup  grated  cheese                            Onion  juice 

Essence  Anchovy  %  cup  buttered  crumbs 

Cut  eggs  in  eighths  lengthwise,  add  macaroni,  white 
sauce,  and  seasonings.  Arrange  in  buttered  baking  dish, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Egg  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  cream 
2  tablespoons  flour                          4  eggs 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Cream  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  scalded 
milk  and  cream.  Cook  in  double  boiler  five  minutes,  and 
add  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  seasonings,  and  fold  in  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
dish,  or  buttered  individual  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  Egg  Souflle  may  be 
served  with  White  Sauce  I,  highly  seasoned  with  celery  salt, 
paprika,  and  onion  juice- 


104  BOSTON  COOKIKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Egg  Timbales 
1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

1  tablespoon  flour  y^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  milk  1^  teaspoon  pepper 

3  eggs  Few  grains  celery  salt 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  and  milk;  add  yolks 
beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  then  add  seasonings. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  and  cut  and  fold  into 
first  mixture.  Turn  into  buttered  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  Serve  with 
Tomato  Cream  Sauce  (see  page  271). 

Egg  Croquettes 

6  eggs  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

1  slice  onion  Yolks  3  eggs 

y^  cup  flour  Stale  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  white  stock  Grated  cheese 

Poach  eggs  and  dry  on  a  towel.  Cook  butter  with  onion 
three  minutes.  Add  flour  and,  gradually,  stock.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  then  add  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Cook  one  minute,  and  cool.  Cover,  eggs  with  mixture,  roll 
in  bread  crumbs  and  cheese,  using  equal  parts,  dip  in  o^g'g^ 
again  roll  in  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  These  may  be  served  with  a  thin  sauce,  using  equal 
parts  of  white  stock  and  cream,  and  seasoning  with  grated 
cheese,  salt,  and  paprika. 

Eggs  a  la  Juliette 

Decorate  egg-shaped  individual  moulds  with  truflfles, 
and  cold  boiled  tongue  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  pistachio 
nuts  blanched  and  split.  Line  mould  with  aspic  jelly, 
drop  in  a  poached  egg  yolk,  cover  with  aspic  jelly,  let 
stand  until  firm,  and  turn  on  a  thin  oval  slice  of  cold  boiled 
tongue. 

Eggs  k  la  Parisienne 
Butter  small  timbale  moulds,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
truffles,  parsley,  and  cooked  beets.     Break  eggs,  and  slip 


Pi^KKED  Eggs.  —  Page  100. 


Plain  Omelet.  —  Page  105. 


o 

'A 


2  n 


EGOS  105 

one  into  each  mould,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  set  in 
pan  of  hot  water,  and  cook  until  egg  is  firm.  Remove  from 
moulds  on  octagon  slices  of  toast,  and  pour  around  Tomato 
Sauce  II  (see  p.  270). 

Eggs  Momay 

Break  egg  and  slip  into  buttered  egg-shirrers,  allowing 
one  or  two  eggs  to  each  shirrer,  according  to  size.  Cover 
with  White  Sauce  II  (see  p.  266),  seasoned  with  one-third 
cup  grated  cheese,  paprika,  and  yolks  two  eggs ;  cover  with 
grated  cheese  and  bake  until  firm. 

Omelets 
For  omelets  select  large  eggs,  allowing  one  egg  for  each 
person,  and  one  tablespoon  liquid  for  each  egg.  Keep  an 
omelet  pan  especially  for  omelets,  and  see  that  it  is  kept 
clean  and  smooth.  A  frying-pan  may  be  used  in  place  of 
omelet  pan. 

Plain  Omelet 

4  eggs  4  tablespoons  hot  water 

}4  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  butter 

Few  grains  pepper  1)4  cups  Thin  White  Sauce 

Separate  yolks  from  whites.  To  yolks  add  salt,  pepper, 
and  hot  water  and  beat  until  thick  and  lemon-colored.  Beat 
whites  until  stiff,  cutting  and  folding  them  into  first  mix- 
ture until  they  have  taken  up  mixture.  Heat  omelet  pan, 
and  butter  sides  and  bottom.  Turn  in  mixture,  spread 
evenly,  place  on  range  where  it  will  cook  slowly,  occa- 
sionally turning  the  pan  that  omelet  may  brown  evenly. 
When  well  ^'puffed"  and  delicately  browned  underneath, 
place  pan  on  centre  grate  of  oven  to  finish  cooking  the  top. 
The  omelet  is  cooked  if  it  is  firm  to  the  touch  when  pressed 
by  the  finger.  If  it  clings  to  the  finger  like  the  beaten  white 
of  egg,  it  needs  longer  cooking.  Fold,  and  turn  on  hot  plat- 
ter, and  pour  around  one  and  one-half  cups  Thin  White 
Sauce. 

Milk  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of  hot  water,  but  hot 
water  makes  a  more  tender  omelet.  A  few  grains  baking 
powder  are  used  by  some  cooks  to  hold  up  an  omelet 


106  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

To  Fold  and  Turn  an  Omelet 

Hold  an  omelet  pan  by  handle  with  the  left  hand.  With 
a  case  knife  make  two  one-half  inch  incisions  opposite  each 
other  at  right  angles  to  handle.  Place  knife  under  the  part 
of  omelet  nearest  handle,  tip  pan  to  nearly  a  vertical  posi- 
tion ;  by  carefully  coaxing  the  omelet  with  knife,  it  will 
fold  and  turn  without  breaking. 

Omelet  ^with  Meat  or  Vegetables 
Mix  and  cook  Plain  Omelet.     Fold  in  remnants  of  finely 
chopped  cooked  chicken,  veal,  or  ham.     Remnants  of  fish 
may  be  flaked  and  added  to  White  Sauce ;  or  cooked  peas, 
asparagus,  or  cauliflower  may  be  added. 

Oyster  Omelet 
Mix  and  cook  Plain  Omelet.     Fold  in  one  pint  oysters, 
parboiled,    drained   from   their  liquor,    and   cut   in   halves. 
Turn  on  platter,  and  pour  around  Thin  White  Sauce. 

Orange  Omelet 
3  eggs  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  2  oranges 

Few  grains  salt  }£  tablespoon  butter 

2^  tablespoons  orange  juice 

Follow  directions  for  Plain  Omelet.  Remove  skin  from 
oranges  and  cut  in  slices,  lengthwise.  Fold  in  one-third  of 
the  slices  of  orange,  well  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar ;  put 
remaining  slices  around  omelet,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Jelly  Omelet 
Mix  and  cook  Plain  Omelet,  omitting  pepper  and  one-half 
the  salt,  and  adding  one  tablespoon  sugar.     Spread  before 
folding  with  jam,  jelly,   or  marmalade.      Fold,  turn,   and 
sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Bread  Omelet 

4  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1^  cup  milk  }4  teaspoon  pepper 

1^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoon  butter 

Soak  bread  crumbs  fifteen  minutes  in  milk,  add  beaten 
yolks  and  seasonings,  fold  in  whites.  Cook  and  serve  as 
Plain  Omelet. 


EGGS  107 

French  Omelet 

4  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  milk  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  just  enough  to  blend  yolks  and  whites, 
add  the  milk  and  seasonings.  Put  butter  in  hot  omelet  pan  ; 
when  melted,  turn  in  the  mixture;  as  it  cooks,  prick  and 
pick  up  with  a  fork  until  the  whole  is  of  creamy  consistency. 
Place  on  hotter  part  of  range  that  it  may  brown  quickly  un- 
derneath.    Fold,  and  turn  on  hot  platter. 

Omelet  vrith  Croiltoiis 
1  cup  bread  cut  in  %  inch  cubes        4  tablespoons  cream 
Butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

6  eggs  y^  teaspoon  pepper 

Fry  cubes  of  bread  in  butter  until  well  browned  and  crisp. 
Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  croutons. 
Put  two  tablespoons  butter  in  hot  omelet  pan,  and  as  soon 
as  melted  and  slightly  browned  turn  in  mixture  and  cook 
same  as  French  Omelet. 

Eggs  "With  Spinach  k  la  Martin 
Cover  the  centre  of  a  platter  with  finely  chopped  and  sea- 
soned cooked  spinach.  Beat  three  eggs  slightly,  add  three 
tablespoons  hot  water,  one-third  teaspoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoon, each,  red  and  green  pepper  cut  in  strips,  and  one 
tablespoon  cooked  ham  cut  in  very  small  pieces.  Heat 
omelet  pan,  put  in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  olive  oil, 
and  as  soon  as  heated  pour  in  mixture.  Cook  same  as 
French  Omelet  and  turn  on  to  spinach.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Spanish  Omelet 
Mix   and  cook   a  French  Omelet.     Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce  in  the  centre  and  around  omelet. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Cook  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one 
tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  onion,  until  yellow.  Add  one 
and  three-fourths  cups  tomatoes,  and  cook  until  moisture  has 
nearly  evaporated.  Add  one  tablespoon  sliced  mushrooms, 
cne  tablespoon  capers,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few 


108  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

grains  cayenne.     This  is  improved  by  a  small  piece  of  red  or 
green  pepper,  finely  chopped,  cooked  with  butter  and  onion. 

Rich  Omelet 

2%  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt  3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Mrs.  E.  A,  Dwinell 

Mix  salt  and  flour,  and  add  gradually  milk.  Beat  eggs  until 
thick  and  lemon-colored,  then  add  to  first  mixture.  Heat 
iron  frying-pan  and  put  in  two-thirds  of  the  butter;  when 
butter  is  melted,  pour  in  mixture.  As  it  cooks,  lift  with  a 
griddle-cake  turner  so  that  uncooked  part  may  run  under- 
neath ;  add  remaining  butter  as  needed,  and  continue  lifting 
the  cooked  part  until  it  is  firm  throughout.  Place  on  hotter 
part  of  range  to  brown ;  roll,  and  turn  on  hot  platter. 

Omelette  Robespierre 
3  eggs  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar 

3  tablespoons  hot  water  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  and  add  remaining  ingredients.  Put 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  in  a  hot  omelet  pan, 
turn  in  mixture  and  cook  same  as  French  Omelet.  Fold, 
turn  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
score  with  a  hot  poker. 

Almond  Omelet,  Caramel  Sauce 

3  eggs  Few  grains  salt 

3  tablespoons  caramel  sauce  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add 
caramel,  salt,  and  vanilla,  and  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Put  three-fourths  tablespoon  but- 
ter in  a  hot  omelet  pan,  cover  bottom  of  pan  with  shredded 
almonds,  turn  in  mixture,  and  cook  and  fold  same  as  Plain 
Omelet.     Pour  around 

Caramel  Sauce.  Pour  one  cup  sugar  in  omelet  pan,  and 
stir  constantly,  over  hot  part  of  range,  until  melted  to  a  light 
brown  syrup.  Add  three-fourths  cup  hot  water,  and  let 
simmer  ten  minutes. 


SOUPS  109 


CHAPTER  VIII 
SOUPS 

IT  cannot  be  denied  that  the  French  excel  all  nations  in 
the  excellence  of  their  cuisine,  and  to  their  soups  and 
sauces  belong  the  greatest  praise.  It  would  be  well  to  follow 
their  example,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  every  housekeeper  to 
learn  the  art  of  soup  making.  How  may  a  hearty  dinner  be 
better  begun  than  with  a  thin  soup  ?  The  hot  liquid,  taken 
into  an  empty  stomach,  is  easily  assimilated,  acts  as  a  stim- 
ulant rather  than  a  nutrient  (as  is  the  popular  opinion),  and 
prepares  the  way  for  the  meal  which  is  to  follow.  The 
cream  soups  and  purees  are  so  nutritious  that,  with  bread 
and  butter,  they  furnish  a  satisfactory  meal. 

Soups  >  are  divided  into  two  great  classes :  soups  with 
stock ;  soups  without  stock. 

Soups  with  stock  have,  for  their  basis,  beef,  veal,  mutton, 
fish,  poultry,  or  game,  separately  or  in  combination.  They 
are  classified  as :  — 

Bouillon,  made  from  lean  beef,  delicately  seasoned,  and 
usually  cleared.     Exception,  —  clam  bouillon. 

Brown  Soup  Stock,  made  from  beef  (two-thirds  lean  meat, 
and  remainder  bone  and  fat) ,  highly  seasoned  with  vegeta- 
bles, spices,  and  sweet  herbs. 

White  Soup  Stock,  made  from  chicken  or  veal,  with  deli- 
cate seasonings. 

Consomm6,  usually  made  from  two  or  three  kinds  of  meat 
(beef,  veal,  and  fowl  being  employed),  highly  seasoned  with 
vegetables,  spices,  and  sweet  herbs.     Always  served  clear. 

Lamb  Stock,  delicately  seasoned,  is  served  as  mutton 
broth. 

Soups  without  stock  are  classified  as :  — 

Cream  Soups,  made  of  vegetables  or  fish,  with  milk,  and  a 
small  amount  of  cream  and  seasonings.     Alwaj^s  thickened. 

Purees,  Giade  from  vegetables  or  fish,  forced  through 


110  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

a  strainer,  and  retained  in  soup,  milk,  and  seasonings. 
Generally  thicker  than  cream  soup.  Sometimes  White  Stock 
is  added. 

Bisques,  generally  made  from  shell-fish,  milk,  and  sea- 
sonings, and  served  with  fish  dice ;  made  similarly  to  purees. 
They  may  be  made  of  meat,  game,  or  vegetables,  with  small 
dice  of  the  same. 

Various  names  have  been  given  to  soups,  according  to 
their  flavorings,  chief  ingredients,  the  people  who  use  them, 
etc.  To  the  Scotch  belongs  Scotch  Broth ;  to  the  French, 
Pot-au-feu  ;  to  the  Indo,  Mulligatawny ;  and  to  the  Spanish, 
011a  Podrida. 

SOUP  MAKING 

The  art  of  soup  making  is  more  easily  mastered  than  at 
first  appears.  The  young  housekeeper  is  startled  at  the 
amazingly  large  number  of  ingredients  the  recipe  calls  for, 
and  often  is  discouraged.  One  may,  with  but  little  expense, 
keep  at  hand  what  is  essential  for  the  making  of  a  good 
soup.  Winter  vegetables  —  turnips,  carrots,  celery,  and 
onions  —  may  be  bought  in  large  or  small  quantities.  The 
outer  stalks  of  celery,  often  not  suitable  for  serving,  should 
be  saved  for  soups.  At  seasons  when  celery  is  a  luxury, 
the  tips  and  roots  should  be  saved  and  dried.  Sweet  herbs, 
including  thyme,  savory,  and  marjoram,  are  dried  and  put 
up  in  packages,  retailing  from  five  to  ten  cents.  Bay  leaves, 
which  should  be  used  sparingly,  may  be  obtained  at  first- 
class  grocers'  or  druggists' ;  seeming  never  to  lose  strength, 
they  may  be  kept  indefinitely.  Spices,  including  whole 
cloves,  allspice  berries,  peppercorns,  and  stick  cinnamon, 
should  be  kept  on  hand.  These  seasonings,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley,  are  the  essential  flavorings 
for  stock  soups.  Flour,  cornstarch,  arrowroot,  fine  tapioca, 
sago,  pearl  barley,  rice,  bread,  or  eggs  are  added  to  give 
consistency  and  nourishment. 

In  small  families,  where  there  are  few  left-overs,  fresh 
meat  must  be  bought  for  the  making  of  soup  stock,  as  a 
good  soup  cannot  be  made  from  a  small  amount  of  poor 
material.     On  the  other  hand,  large  families  need  seldom 


SOUPS  111 

buy  fresh  meat,  provided  all  left-overs  are  properly  cared 
for.  The  soup  kettle  should  receive  small  pieces  of  beef 
(roasted,  broiled,  or  stewed),  veal,  carcasses  of  fowl  or 
chicken,  chop  bones,  bones  left  from  lamb  roast,  and  all 
trimmings  and  bones,  which  a  careful  housewife  should  see 
are  sent  from  the  market  with  her  order.  Avoid  the  use  of 
smoked  or  corned  meats,  or  large  pieces  of  raw  mutton  or 
lamb  surrounded  by  fat,  on  account  of  the  strong  flavor  so 
disagreeable  to  many.  A  small  piece  of  bacon  or  lean  ham 
is  sometimes  cooked  with  vegetables  for  flavor. 

Beef  ranks  first  as  regards  utility  and  economy  in  soup 
making.  It  should  be  cut  from  the  fore  or  hind  shin  (which 
cuts  contain  marrow-bone),  the  middle  cuts  being  most  de- 
sirable. If  the  lower  part  of  shin  is  used,  the  soup,  although 
rich  in  gelatin,  lacks  flavor,  unless  a  cheap  piece  of  lean  meat 
is  used  with  it,  which  frequently  is  done.  It  must  be  remem- 
bered that  meat,  bone,  and  fat  in  the  right  proportions  are 
all  necessary;  allow  two-thirds  lean  meat,  the  remaining 
one-third  bone  and  fat.  From  the  meat  the  soluble  juices, 
salts,  extractives  (which  give  color  and  flavor),  and  a  small 
quantity  of  gelatin  are  extracted;  from  the  bone,  gelatin 
(which  gives  the  stock  when  cold  a  jelly-like  consistency) 
and  mineral  matter.  Gelatin  is  also  obtained  from  cartilage, 
skin,  tendons,  and  ligaments.  Some  of  the  fat  is  absorbed ; 
the  remainder  rises  to  the  top  and  should  be  removed. 

Soup-stock  making  is  rendered  easier  by  use  of  proper 
utensils.  Sharp  meat  knives,  hardwood  board,  two  puree 
strainers  having  meshes  of  different  size,  and  a  soup  digester 
(a  porcelain-lined  iron  pot,  having  tight-fitting  cover,  with 
valve  in  the  top),  or  covered  granite  kettle,  are  essentials. 
An  iron  kettle,  which  formerly  constituted  one  of  the  fur- 
nishings of  a  range,  may  be  used  if  perfectly  smooth.  A 
saw,  cleaver,  and  scales,  although  not  necessary,  are  useful, 
and  lighten  labor. 

When  meat  comes  from  market,  remove  from  paper  and 
put  in  cool  place.  When  ready  to  start  stock,  if  scales  are 
at  hand,  weigh  meat  and  bone  to  see  if  correct  proportions 
have  been  sent.  Wipe  meat  with  clean  cheesecloth  wrung 
out  of  ooM  •W9.fj^.     Cat  lean  me»t  in  one-Inch  cnbes ;  bj  so 


112  BOSTON  COOKTNG-SOHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

doing,  a  large  amount  of  surface  is  exposed  to  the  water, 
and  juices  are  more  easily  drawn  out.  Heat  frying-pan 
hissing  hot ;  remove  marrow  from  marrow-bbne,  and  use 
enough  to  brown  one-third  of  the  lean  meat,  stirring  con- 
stantly, that  all  parts  of  surface  may  be  seared,  thus  pre- 
venting escape  of  juices,  —  sacrificing  a  certain  amount  of 
goodness  in  the  stock  to  give  additional  color  and  flavor, 
which  is  obtained  by  caramelization.  Put  fat,  bone,  and 
remaining  lean  meat  in  soup  kettle ;  cover  with  cold  water, 
allowing  one  pint  to  each  pound  of  meat,  bone,  and  fat. 
Let  stand  one  hour,  that  cold  water  may  draw  out  juices 
from  meat.  Add  browned  meat,  taking  water  from  soup 
kettle  to  rinse  out  frying-pan,  that  none  of  the  coloring  may 
be  lost.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling-point,  and  cook  six  or 
seven  hours  at  low  temperature.  A  scum  will  rise  on  the 
top,  which  contains  coagulated  albuminous  juices  ;  these  give 
to  soup  its  chief  nutritive  value  ;  many,  however,  prefer  a 
clear  soup,  and  have  them  removed.  If  allowed  to  remain, 
when  straining,  a  large  part  will  pass  through  strainer. 
Vegetables,  spices,  and  salt  should  be  added  the  last  hour 
of  cooking.  Strain  and  cool  quickly ;  by  so  doing,  stock  is 
less  apt  to  ferment.  A  knuckle  of  veal  is  often  used  for 
making  white  soup  stock.  Fowl  should  be  used  for  stock  in 
preference  to  chicken,  as  it  is  cheaper,  and  contains  a  larger 
amount  of  nutriment.  A  cake  of  fat  forms  on  stock  when 
cold,  which  excludes  air,  and  should  not  be  removed  until 
stock  is  used.  To  remove  fat,  run  a  knife  around  edge  of 
bowl  and  carefully  remove  the  same.  A  small  quantity  will 
remain,  which  should  be  removed  by  passing  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  around  edge  and  over  top  of  stock.  This 
fat  should  be  clarified  and  used  for  drippings.  If  time  can- 
not be  allowed  for  stock  to  cool  before  using,  take  off  as 
much  fat  as  possible  with  a  spoon,  and  remove  the  remainder 
by  passing  tissue  or  any  absorbent  paper  over  the  surface. 

How  to  Clear  Soup  Stock 

Whites  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  or  raw,  lean  beef  finely 
chopped,  are  employed  for  clearing  soup  stock.     The  al- 


SOUPS  113 

bumen  found  in  each  effects  the  clearing  by  drawing  to  itself 
some  of  the  juices  which  have  been  extracted  from  the  meat, 
and  by  action  of  heat  have  been  coagulated.  Some  rise  to 
the  top  and  form  a  scum,  others  are  precipitated. 

Remove  fat  from  stock,  and  put  quantity  to  be  cleared  in 
stew-pan,  allowing  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  to  each  quart 
of  stock.  Beat  egg  slightly,  break  shell  in  small  pieces  and 
add  to  stodk.  Place  on  front  of  range,  and  stir  constantly 
until  boiling-point  is  reached ;  boil  two  minutes.  Set  back 
where  it  may  simmer  twenty  minutes;  remove  scum,  and 
strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth  placed  over 
a  fine  strainer.  If  stock  to  be  cleared  is  not  sufficiently  sea- 
soned, additional  seasoning  must  be  added  as  soon  as  stock 
has  lost  its  jelly-like  consistency ;  not  after  clearing  is 
effected.  Many  think  the  flavor  obtained  from  a  few  shav- 
ings of  lemon  rind  an  agreeable  addition. 

How  to  Bind  Soups 

Cream  soups  and  purees,  if  allowed  to  stand,  separate, 
unless  bound  together.  To  bind  a  soup,  melt  butter,  and 
when  bubbling  add  an  equal  quantity  of  flour ;  when  well 
mixed  add  to  soup,  stirring  constantly  until  boiling-point  is 
reached.  If  recipe  calls  for  more  flour  than  butter,  or  soup 
is  one  that  should  be  made  in  double  boiler,  add  gradually  a 
portion  of  hot  mixture  to  butter  and  flour  until  of  such  con- 
sistency that  it  may  be  poured  into  the  mixture  remaining  in 
double  boiler. 

SOUPS  WITH  MEAT  STOCK 

Brown  Soup  Stock 

6  lbs.  shin  of  beef  1  sprig  marjoram 

3  quarts  cold  water  2  sprigs  parsley 

%  teaspoon  peppercorns  Carrot  ' 

6  cloves  Turnip    )4.  cup  each, 

%  bay  leaf  Onion    "  cut  in  dice 

3  sprigs  thyme  Celery  ^ 
1  tablespoon  salt 

Wipe  beef,  and  cut  the  lean  meat  in  inch  cubes.  Brown 
one-third  of  meat  in  hot  frying-pan  in  marrow  from  a  mar- 
row-bone.   Put  remaining  two-thirds  with  bone  and  fat  in 

a 


114  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

soup  kettle,  add  water,  and  let  stand  for  thirty  minutes. 
Place  on  back  of  range,  add  browned  meat,  and  heat  gradu- 
ally to  boiling-point.  As  scum  rises  it  should  be  removed. 
Cover,  and  cook  slowly  six  hours,  keeping  below  boiling-point 
during  cooking.  Add  vegetables  and  seasonings,  cook  one 
and  one-half  hours,  strain,  and  cool  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Bouillon 


5  lbs.  lean  beef  from  middle 

1  tablespoon  salt 

of  round 

Carrot 

2  lbs.  marrow-bone 

Turnip 

3^  cup  each, 

3  quarts  cold  water 

Onion 

cut  in  dice 

1  teaspoon  peppercorns 

Celery  ^ 

Wipe,  and  cut  meat  in  inch  cubes.  Put  two-thirds  of  meat 
in  soup  kettle,  and  soak  in  water  thirty  minutes.  Brown 
remainder  in  hot  frying-pan  with  marrow  from  marrow-bone. 
Put  browned  meat  and  bone  in  kettle.  Heat  to  boiling- 
point;  skim  thoroughly,  and  cook  at  temperature  below 
boiling-point  five  hours.  Add  seasonings  and  vegetables, 
cook  one  hour,  strain,  and  cool.  Eemove  fat,  and  clear. 
Serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

Tomato  Bouillon  with  Oysters 
1  can  tomatoes  6  cloves 

1/^  quarts  bouillon  y^  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  y^  teaspoon  peppercorns 

^  bay  leaf  1  pint  oysters 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  oysters,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Strain,  cool,  and  clear.  Add  parboiled  oysters,  and  serve 
in  bouillon  cups  with  small  croutons. 

Iced  Bouillon 

Flavor  bouillon  with  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  and  serve 
cold. 

Macaroni  Sonp 

1  quart  Brown  Soup  Stock  Salt 

^  cup  macaroni,  broken  in  Pepper 

half-inch  pieces. 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain, 
%nd  add  to  stock  heated  to  boiling-point     Season  with  salt 


SOUPS  115 


and  pepper.     Spaghetti  or  other  Italian  pastes  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  macaroni. 


Tomato  Soup 

with  Stock 

1  quart  Brown  Soup  Stock 
1  can  tomatoes 

yi  cup  flour 
Onion       ' 

y^  teaspoon  peppercorns 
1  small  bay  leaf 
3  cloves 

Carrot 
Celery 
Raw  ham 

%  cup  each 
cut  in  dice 

3  sprigs  thyme 

4  tablespoons  butter 

Salt 
Pepper 

Cook  onion,  carrot,  celery,  and  ham  in  butter  five  minutes, 
add  flour,  peppercorns,  bay  leaf,  cloves,  and  thyme,  and 
cook  three  minutes ;  then  add  tomatoes,  cover,  and  cook 
slowly  one  hour.  When  cooked  in  oven  it  requires  less 
watching.  Rub  through  a  strainer,  add  hot  stock,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Turkish  Soup 

5  cups  Brown  Soup  Stock  2  slices  onion 

^  cup  rice  10  peppercorns 

\y^  cups  stewed  and  strained  ^  teaspoon  celery  salt 

tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  1)^  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  rice  in  Brown  Stock  until  soft.  Cook  bay  leaf,  onion, 
peppercorns,  and  celery  salt  with  tomatoes  thirty  minutes. 
Combine  mixtures,  rub  through  sieve,  and  bind  with  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  if 
needed. 

Creole  Soup 

1  quart  Brown  Soup  Stock  Salt  * 

1  pint  tomatoes  Pepper 
3  tablespoons  chopped  green             Cayenne 

peppers  2  tablespoons  grated 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion  horseradish 
1^  cup  butter                                      1  teaspoon  vinegar 

y^  cup  flour  '  y^  cup  macaroni  rings 

Cook  pepper  and  onion  in  butter  five  minutes.  Add  flour, 
stock,  and  tomatoes,  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes.     Strain, 


116  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

rub  through  sieve,  and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
cayenne.  Just  before  serving  add  horseradish,  vinegar,  and 
macaroni  previously  cooked  and  cut  in  rings. 

Julienne  Soup 
To  one  quart  clear  Brown  Soup  Stock,  add  one-fourth  cup 
each  carrot  and  turnip,  cut  in  thin  strips  one  and  one-half 
inches  long,  previously  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water,  and 
two  tablespoons,  each,  cooked  peas  and  string  beans.  Heat 
to  boiling-point. 

Dinner  Soup 

S}4  lbs.  lean  beef  from  round       2  tablespoons  butter 

2  lbs.  marrow-bone  Carrot  ?  ^  .  ^„^   ^„  , 

, ,       .  m       .    )*  K  cup,  eacn 

2  qts.  cold  water  Turnip  S 

1  can  tomatoes  Onion  )      .  •  n    • 

:^  _,  ,       ^  cut  m  small  pieces     ^ 

1  teaspoon  peppercorns  Celery  > 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  sprig  parsley 

1  tablespoon  lean  raw  ham,  ^  bay  leaf 

finely  chopped 

Wipe  meat  and  cut  in  inch  cubes.  Put  one-half  in  kettle 
with  marrow- bone,  water,  and  tomatoes.  Brown  remaining 
half  in  hot  frying-pan  with  some  marrow  from  bone,  then 
turn  into  kettle.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling-point,  and  cook  at 
temperature  just  below  boiling-point  five  hours. 

Cook  ham  and  vegetables  with  butter  five  minutes,  then 
add  to  soup  with  peppercorns,  salt,  parsley,  and  bay  leaf. 
Cook  one  and  one-half  hours,  strain,  cool  quickly,  remove 
fat,  and  clear. 

Bortchock  Soup 

6  lbs.  shin  of  beef  2  sprigs  parsley 

3  qts.  cold  water  2  stalks  celery 

1  cup  carrot  cubes  1  beet  finely  cut 

^  cup  sliced  onion  1  tablespoon  salt 

6  cloves  1  teaspoon  peppercorns 

1  allspice  beriy  2  tablespoons  butter 

Prepare  and  cook  beef  same  as  for  Bouillon.  Cook 
vegetables  in  butter  five  minutes;  then  add  to  soup 
with  remaining  seasonings.  Cook  one  and  one-half  hours, 
strain,  cool  quickly,  remove  fat.  and  clear.    When  read^ 


SOUPS  117 

to  clear,  add  one  cup  finely  chopped  raw  beet  and  one-fourth 
cup  vinegar.  Select  red  beets  for  this  soup,  and  serve  as 
soon  as  possible  after  clearing,  otherwise  it  will  lose  its 
bright  red  color,  which  makes  the  dish  especially  appropriate 
for  an  American  Beauty  Dinner. 

Ox-tail  Soup 

1  small  ox-tail  y^  teaspoon  salt 

6  cups  Brown  Stock  Few  grains  cayenne 

Carrot  )  %  cup  each,  cut  in  3^  cup  Madeira  wine 

Turnip  S        fancy  shapes  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

Onion  >  ^  cup  each,  cut  in  Sauce 

Celery  \       small  pieces  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cut  ox-tail  in  small  pieces,  wash,  drain,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  ten  minutes. 
Add  to  Brown  Stock,  and  simmer  one  hour.  Then  add  vege- 
tables, which  have  been  parboiled  twenty  minutes ;  simmer 
until  vegetables  are  soft,  add  salt,  cayenne,  wine,  Worcester- 
shire Sauce,  and  lemon  juice. 

Scotch  Soup 

3  lbs.  mutton  from  fore-quarter  %  onion 

•        2  qts.  cold  water  ^  cup  flour 

1^  tablespoon  salt  f  1  ^  ®^P'  ®^®^» 

^  teaspoon  pepper  q,^^^^.    j-  cut  in  small 

2  slices  turnip  urnipj  ^^^^ 

2  tablespoons  pearl  barley 

Wipe  meat,  remove  skin  and  fat,  and  cut  meat  in  small 
pieces.  Add  water,  heat  gradually  to  boiling-point,  skim, 
and  cook  slowly  two  hours.  After  cooking  one  hour,  add 
salt,  pepper,  turnip,  and  onion.  Strain,  cool,  remove  fat, 
reheat,  and  thicken  with  flour  diluted  with  enough  cold 
water  to  pour  easily.  Cook  carrot  and  turnip  dice  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  soft ;  drain,  and  add  to  soup.  Soak 
barley  over  night,  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  soft;  drain,  and  add  to  soup.  If  bar- 
ley should  be  cooked  in  the  soup,  it  would  absorb  the 
greater  part  of  the  stock.  Barley  may  be  omitted;  in 
that  case  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve 
with  croiitons. 


118  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

"White  Soup  Stock  I 

3  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal  1  large  stalk  celery 

1  lb.  lean  beef  %  teaspoon  peppercorns 

3  quarts  boiling  water  >^  bay  leaf 

1  onion  2  sprigs  thyme 
6  slices  carrot                                 2  cloves 

French  Chef 

Wipe  veal,  remove  from  bone,  and  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
cut  beef  in  pieces,  put  bone  and  meat  in  soup  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  bring  quickly  to  boiling-point;  drain, 
throw  away  the  water.  Wash  thoroughly  bones  and  meat 
in  cold  water ;  return  to  kettle,  add  vegetables,  seasonings, 
and  three  quarts  boiling  \7ater.  Boil  three  or  four  hours ; 
the  stock  should  be  reduced  one  half. 

"White  Soup  Stock  II 

4  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal  %  teaspoon  peppercorns 

2  quarts  cold  water  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  salt  2  stalks  celery 

Blade  of  mace 

Wipe  meat,  remove  from  bone,  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  meat,  bone,  water,  and  seasonings  in  kettle.  Heat^ 
gradually  to  boiling-point,  skimming  frequently.  Simmer 
four  or  five  hours,  and  strain.  If  scum  has  been  carefully 
removed,  and  soup  is  strained  through  double  thickness  of 
cheesecloth,  stock  will  be  quite  clear. 

"White  Soup  Stock  III 

The  water  in  which  a  fowl  or  chicken  is  cooked  makes 
White  Stock. 

Chicken  Soup  with  "Wine 

3  lb.  fowl  1  onion,  sliced 

2  quarts  cold  water  2  stalks  celery 
2  slices  carrot                           Bit  of  bay  leaf 

1  tablespoon  salt  2  tablespoons  Sauterne  wine 

%  teaspoon  peppercorns         1  teaspoon  beef  extract 
1  cup  cream  Salt  Pepper 

Wipe  and  cut  up  fowl.  Cover  with  water,  and  add  car- 
rot, salt,  peppercorns,  onion,  celery,  and  bay  leaf.    Bring 


SOUPS  lid 

quickly  to  boiling-point,  then  let  simmer  until  meat  is  tender. 
Remove  meat  and  strain  stock.  Chill,  remove  fat,  reheat, 
and  add  wine,  beef  extract,  and  cream.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

French  "White  Soup 

4  lb.  fowl  %  teaspoon  peppercorns 

Knuckle  of  veal  )^  tablespoon  salt 

3  qts.  cold  water  1  tablespoon  lean  raw  ham, 

1  onion,  sliced  finely  chopped 

6  slices  carrot  4  tablespoons  butter 

y^  bay  leaf  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  sprig  parsley  1  cup  cream 

%  teaspoon  thyme  Yolks  2  eggs 

Wipe,  clean,  and  disjoint  fowl.     Wipe  veal,  remove  from 

bone,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.     Put  meat,  bone,  and  water 

in  kettle,  heat  slowly  to  boiling-point,  skim,  and  cook  slowly 

four  hours.      Cook  vegetables  and  ham  in  one  tablespoon 

butter  five  minutes,  add  to  soup  with  peppercorns  and  salt, 

and  cook  one  hour.     Strain,  cool,  and  remove  fat.     Reheat 

three  cups  stock,  thicken  with  remaining  butter  and  flour 

cooked  together,  and  just  before  serving  add  cream  and  egg 

yolks.     Garnish  with  one-half  cup  cooked  green  peas  and 

Chicken  Custard  cut  in  dice. 

* 
White  Soup 

5  cups  White  Stock  III  2  cups  scalded  milk 

y^  tablespoon  salt  3  tablespoons  butter 

)^  teaspoon  peppercorns  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  stalk  celery  Salt  and  pepper 

Add  seasonings  to  stock,  and  simmer  thirty  minutes; 
strain,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together; 
add  scalded  milk.  Dilute  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  with  hot 
soup,  and  add  to  remaining  soup;  strain,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Serve  at  once  or  soup  will  have  a  curdled 
appearance. 


120  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chicken  Soup 

6  cups  White  Stock  III  2  stalks  celery 

1  tablespoon  lean  raw  ham,  %  bay  leaf 

finely  chopped  ^  teaspoon  peppercorns 

6  slices  carrot,  cut  in  cubes  1  sliced  onion 

Y^  cup  hot  boiled  rice 

Add  seasonings  to  stock,  heat  gradually  to  boiling-point, 
and  boil  thirty  minutes ;  strain,  and  add  rice. 

Turkey  Soup 

Break  turkey  carcass  in  pieces,  removing  all  stuffing; 
put  in  kettle  with  any  bits  of  meat  that  may  have  been  left 
over.  Cover  with  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  boiling-point, 
and  simmer  two  hours.  Strain,  remove  fat,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  One  or  two  outer  stalks  of  celery  may 
be  cooked  with  carcass  to  give  additional  flavor. 

Hygienic  Soup 

6  cups  White  Stock  III  2  tablespoons  butter 

^  cup  oatmeal  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Heat  stock  to  boiling-point,  add  oatmeal,  and  boil  one 
hour ;  rub  through  sieve,  add  milk,  and  thicken  with  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Farina  Soup 

4  cups  White  Stock  III  1  cup  cream 

^  cup  farina  Few  gratings  of  nutmeg 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Heat  stock  to  boiling-point,  add  farina,  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes;  then  add  milk,  cream,  and  seasgnings. 

Spring  Soup 

1  quart  White  Stopk  I  or  II  1  cup  milk 

1  large  onion  thinly  sliced  1  cup  cream 

3  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 
%  cup  stale  baker's  bread  Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  onion  fifteen  minutes  in  one  tablespoon  butter ;  add 
to  stock,  with  bread  broken  in  pieces.     Simmer  one  hour; 


SOUPS  121 

rub  through  sieve.     Add  milk,  and  bind  with  remaining  but- 
ter and  flour  cooked  together ;  add  cream,  and  season. 

Duchess  Soup 
4  cups  White  Stock  III  ^  cup  butter 

2  slices  carrot,  cut  in  cubes  i^  cup  flour 

2  slices  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  blades  mace  %  teaspoon  pepper 

y^  cup  grated  mild  cheese  2  cups  scalded  milk 

Cook  vegetables  three  minutes  in  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons butter,  then  add  stock  and  mace;  boil  fifteen  min- 
utes, strain,  and  add  milk.  Thicken  with  remaining  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together;  add  salt  and  peppfer.  Stir  in 
cheese,  and  serve  as  soon  as  cheese  is  melted. 

-  Pptage  k  la  Reine 

4  cups  White  Stock  III  i^  cup  cracker  crumbs 

}4  teaspoon  peppercorns  Breast  meat  from  a  boiled 
1  stalk  celery  chicken 

1  slice  onion  2  cups  scalded  milk 

}4,  tablespoon  salt  3^  cup  cold  milk 

Yolks  3  "  hard-boiled  '*  eggs  3  tablespoons  butter 
3  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  stock  with  seasonings  twenty  minutes.  Rub  yolks 
of  eggs  through  sieve.  Soak  cracker  crumbs  in  cold  milk 
until  soft ;  add  to  eggs.  Chop  meat  and  rub  through  sieve ; 
add  to  egg  and  cracker  mixture.  Then  pour  milk  on  slowly, 
and  add  to  strained  stock ;  boil  three  muiutes.  Bind  with 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 

Royal  Soup 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  \}4,  cups  scalded  milk 

%  cup  milk  ^%  cups  White 
Yolks  3  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  Stock  III 

Breast  meat  from  a  boiled  chicken  2}4  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  pepper  2%  tablespoons  flour 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  add  yolks  of  eggs  rubbed 
througli  a  sieve  and  chicken  meat  also  rubbed  through  a 
sieve.  Add  gradually  milk,  and  chicken  stock  highly 
seasoned.  Bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


122  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

St.  Germain  Soup 

8  cups  White  Stock  I,  II,  or  III        Blade  of  mace 
1  can  Marrowfat  peas  2  teaspoons  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  onion  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  2  tablespoons  butter 

Sprig  of  parsley  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  cup  milk 

Drain  and  rinse  peas,  reserving  one-third  cup ;  put  re- 
maindor  in  cold  water  with  seasonings,  and  simmer  one-half 
hour ;  rub  through  sieve  and  add  stock.  Bind  with  butter 
and  cornstarch  cooked  together;  boil  five  minutes.  Add 
milk  and  reserved  peas. 

Imperial  Soup  * 

4  cups  White  Stock  III  i^  teaspoon  peppercorns 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  Bit  of  bay  leaf 
2  stalks  celery,  broken  in  pieces     Blade  of  mace 

2  slices  carrot,  cut  in  cubes  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  onion  ^  breast  boiled  chicken 

3  tablespoons  butter  i^  cup  blanched  almonds 
Sprig  of  parsley                               1  cup  cream 

2  cloves  K  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  celery,  carrot,  and  onion  in  one  tablespoon  butter 
five  minutes;  tie  in  cheesecloth  with  parsley,  cloves,  pepper- 
corns, bay  leaf,  and  mace ;  add  to  stock  with  salt  and  bread 
crumbs,  simmer  one  hour,  remove  seasonings,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Chop  chicken  meat  and  rub  through  sieve ; 
pound  almonds  to  a  paste,  add  to  chicken,  then  add  cream. 
Combine  mixtures,  add  milk,  reheat,  and  bind  with  remain- 
ing butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 

Veal  and  Sago  Soup 

2>^  lbs.  lean  veal  2  cups  scalded  milk 

3  quarts  cold  water  Yolks  4  eggs 

]/i  lb.  pearl  sago  Salt  and  pepper 

Order  meat  from  market,  very  finely  chopped.  Pick 
c&¥er  send  remove  particles  of  fat.    Cover  meat  witb  ^^t«r^ 


SOUPS  123 

bring  slowly  to  boiling-point,  and  simmer  two  hours,  skim- 
ming occasionally ;  strain  and  reheat.  Soak  sago  one-half 
hour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  stir  into  hot  stock,  boil 
thirty  minutes,  and  add  milk ;  then  pour  mixture  slowly 
on  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Asparagus  Soup* 

8  cups  White  Stock  II  or  III  y^  cup  butter 

1  can  asparagus  )^  cup  flour 

2  cups  cold  water  2  cups  scalded  milk 
1  slice  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Drain  and  rinse  asparagus,  reserve  tips,  and  add  stalks  to 
cold  water ;  boil  five  minutes,  drain,  add  stock,  and  onion ; 
boil  thirty  mi^tes,  rub  through  sieve,  and  bind  with  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  salt,  pepper,  milk,  and 
tips. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

2  cups  White  Stock  II  or  III  3  tablespoons  flour 

3  cups  celery,  cut  in  inch  pieces         2  cups  milk 
2  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  cream 

1  slice  onion  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

Parboil  celery  in  water  ten  minutes;  (^ain,  add  stock, 
cook  until  celery  is  soft,  and  rub  through  sieve.  Scald 
onion  in  milk,  remove  onion,  add  milk  to  stock,  bind,  add 
cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Spinach  Soup 

4  cups  White  Stock  II  or  III         }^  cup  butter 

2  quarts  spinach  Y^  cup  flour 

3  cups  boiling  water  Salt 

2  cups  milk  Pepper 

Wash,  pick  over,  and  cook  spinach  thirty  minutes  in 
boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon powdered  sugar  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  soda;, 
drain,  chop,  and  rub  through  sieve;  add  stock,  heat  to 
boiling-point,  bind,  add  milk,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 


124  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cream  of  Lettuce  Soup 

2>^  cups  White  Stock  IT  or  III  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  heads  lettuce  finely  cut  Yolk  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  rice  Few  grains  nutmeg 

y^  cup  cream  Salt 

1^  tablespoon  onion,  finely  chopped  Pepper 

Cook  onion  five  minutes  in  butter,  add  lettuce,  rice,  and 
stock.  Cook  until  rice  is  soft,  then  add  cream,  yolk  of  egg 
slightly  beaten,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  pepper.  Remove  outer 
leaves  from  lettuce,  using  only  tender  part  for  soup. 

Mushroom  Soup 

%  lb.  mushrooms  1  cup  boiling  water 

4  cups  White  Stock  III  1  cup  heavy  cream 

^  cup  pearl  sago  Yolks  2  eggs»^ 

Salt  and  pepper 

Clean  and  chop  mushrooms,  and  add  to  stock.  Cook 
twenty  minutes  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook  sago  in 
boiling  water  thirty  minutes,  add  to  stock,  and  as  soon  as 
boiling-point  is  reached,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  then 
add  cream  and  yolks  of  eggs. 

Cream  of  Mushroom  Soup 

y^  lb.  mushrooms  ^       i^  cup  flour 

4  cups  White  Stock  III  1  cup  cream 

1  slice  onion  Salt 

^  cup  butter  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  Sauterne 

Chop  mushrooms,  add  to  White  Stock  with  onion,  cook 
twenty  minutes,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Reheat,  bind 
with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  then  add  cream  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Just  before  serving  add  wine. 

Cream  of  Watercress  Soup 

2  cups  White  Stock  I,  II  or  III         }^  cup  milk 

2  bunches  watercress  Yolk  1  %gg 

3  tablespoons  butter  Salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Pepper 

Cut  finely  leaves  of  watercress  ;  cook  five  minutes  in  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  stock,  a^d  boil  five  minutes.    Thicken 


SOUPS'  125 

with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  add  salt  and  pepper- 
Just  before  serving,  add  milk  and  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten. 
Serve  with  slices  of  French  bread,  browned  in  oven. 

Cream  of  Cauliflower  Soup 

4  cups  hot  White  Stock  II  or  III  y^  bay  leaf 

1  cauliflower  ^  i^  cup  flour 

'^  cup  butter  2  cups  milk 

1  slice  onion  Salt 

1  stalk  celery,  cut  in  inch  pieces  Pepper 

Soak  cauliflower,  head  down,  one  hour  in  cold  water  to 
cover ;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Reserve 
one-half  flowerets,  and  rub  remaining  cauliflower  through 
sieve.  Cook  onion,  celery,  and  bay  leaf  in  butter  five  min- 
utes. Remove'  bay  leaf,  then  add  flour,  and  stir  into  hot 
stock ;  add  cauliflower  and  milk.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  then  strain,  add  flowerets,  and  reheat. 

Cucumber  Soup 

3  large  cucumbers  1  slice  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  blades  mace 

3  tablespoons  flour  ^  cup  cream 
3  cups  White  Stock  III  Yolks  2  eggs 

- 1  cup  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Peel  cucumbers,  slice,  and  remove  seeds.  Cook  in  butter 
ten  minutes;  then  add  flour  and  stock.  Scald  milk  with 
onion  and  mace.  Combine  mixtures  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Reheat  to  boiling-point  and  add  cream  and  egg  yolks. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Almond  Soup 

%  cup  almonds  3  stalks  celery 

6  bitter  almonds  3  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  cold  water  3  tablespoons  flour 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  scalded  milk 

3  cups  White  Stock  III  1  cup  cream 

1  small  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Blanch,  chop,  and  pound  almonds  in  a  mortar.  Add 
gradually  water  and  salt;  then  add  stock,  sliced  onion,  and 
celery,  let  simmer  one  hour,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.     Melt 


126  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  liquor;  then 
add  milk,  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with 
Mock  Almonds  (see  p.  146). 

String  Beau  Soup 
4  cups  White  Stock  I,  II,  or  III  i^  cup  flour 

2  quarts  string  beans  i^  cup  butter 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  beans  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover; 
drain,  and  rub  through  sieve.  Add  pulp  to  White  Stock, 
then  milk ;  bind,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish 
with  Eritter  Beans. 

Soup  k  la  Soubise 

Thinly  slice  two  Spanish  onions,  and  cook  ten  minutes  in 
one -fourth  cup  butter,  stirring  constantly.  Add  one  quart 
White  Stock  III,  cook  slowly  thirty  minutes,  and  strain. 
Dilute  three  tablespoons  flour  with  enough  cold  water  to  pour 
easily,  add  to  soup,  and  bring  to  boiling-point.  Then  add 
one  cup  cream,  and  one  tablespoon  chopped  green  peppers, 
or  one-fourth  cup  grated  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Chestnut  Pur^e 

4  cups  White  Stock  II  or  III  2  cups  scalded  milk 

2  cups  French  chestnuts,  ^  cup  butter 

boiled  and  mashed  J^  cup  flour 

1  slice  onion  Salt 

^  teaspoon  celery  salt  Pepper 

Cook  stock,  chestnuts,  onion,  and  celery  salt  ten  minutes ; 
rub  through  sieve,  add  milk,  and  bind.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Crab  Soup 
6  hard-shelled  crabs  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  White  Stock  III  2  tablespoons  flour    • 

^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  1  cup  cream 

1  slice  onion  Salt 

1  sprig  parsley  Cayenne 

Remove  meat  from  crabs,  and  chop  finely.  Add  stock, 
bread  crumbs,  onion,  and  parsley,  and  simmer  twent}'  min- 
utes.   Rub  through  a  sieve,  bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 


SOUPS  127 

together,  then  add  cream  and  seasonings.    Serve  with  Pulled 

Bread. 

Philadelphia  Pepper  Pot 
Sliced  onion  ^  %  lb.  honeycomb  tripe. 

Chopped  celery  I  }^  cup  each  cut  in  cubes 

Chopped  green  peppers  J  \%  cups  potato  cubes 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  peppercorns, 
3^  tablespoons  flour  finely  pounded 

5  cups  hot  White  Stock  III  ^  tablespoon  salt 

1^  cup  heavy  cream 

Cook  vegetables  in  three  tablespoons  butter  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  add  flour,  and  stir  until  well  mixed  ;  then  add  remain- 
ing ingredients  except  cream.  Cover,  and  let  cook  one  hour. 
Just  before  se'ving,  add  cream  and  remaining  butter. 

Mulligata'wny  Soup 
5  cups  White  Stock  II  ^  cup  butter 

1  cup  tomatoes  y^  cup  flour 

Onion,  cut  in  slices  1  1  teaspoon  curry 

Carrot,  cut  in  cubes  j-  ^  cup  each  powder 

Celery,  cut  in  cubes  j  Blade  of  mace 

1  pepper,  finely  chopped  2  cloves 

1  apple,  sliced  Sprig  of  parsley 

1  cup  raw  chicken,  cut  in  dice  Salt  and  pepper 

French  Chef 

Cook  vegetables  and  chicken  in  butter  until  brown ;  add 
flour,  curry  powder,  mace,  cloves,  parsley,  stock,  and  tomato, 
and  simmer  one  hour.  Strain,  reserve  chicken,  and  rub 
vegetables  through  sieve.  Add  chicken  to  strained  soup, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Mock  Turtle    Soup 

1  calf's  head  ^  2  cups  brown  stock 
6  cloves  ^  cup  butter 

%  teaspoon  peppercorns  %  cup  flour 

6  allspice  berries  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 

2  sprigs  thyme  tomatoes 
y^  cup  sliced  onion  Juice  %  lemon 
%  cup  carrot,  cut  in  dice  Madeira  wine 

Clean  and  wash  calf's  head ;  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water 
to  cover.     Cook  until  tender  in  three  quarts  boiling  salted 

V 


128  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

water  (to  which  seasoning  and  vegetables  have  been  added). 
Remove  head ;  boil  stock  until  reduced  to  one  quart.  Strain 
and  cool.  Melt  and  brown  butter,  add  flour,  and  stir  until 
well  browned  ;  then  pour  on  slowly  brown  stock.  Add  head- 
stock,  tomato,  one  cup  face-meat  cut  in  dice,  and  lemon 
juice.  Simmer  five  minutes  ;  add  Royal  custard  cut  in  dice, 
and  Egg  Balls,  or  Force-meat  Balls.  Add  Madeira  wine,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Consomm^ 

8  lbs.  beef,  poorer  part  of  round  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  lb.  marrow-bone  1  tablespoon  salt 

3  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal  1  teaspoon  peppercorns 

1  quart  chicken  stock  4  cloves 

Carrot  1  3  sprigs  thyme 

Turnip  V  }^  cup  each,  cut  in  dice  1  sprig  marjoram 

Celery  j  2  sprigs  parsley 

1^  cup  sliced  onion  }4  bay  leaf 
3  quarts  cold  water 

Cut  beef  in  one  and  one-half  inch  cubes,  and  brown  one- 
half  in  some  of  the  marrow  from  marrow-bone ;  put  remain- 
ing half  in  kettle  with  cold  water,  add  veal  cut  in  pieces, 
browned  meat,  and  bones.  Let  stand  one-half  hour.  Heat 
slowly  to  boiling-point,  and  let  simmer  three  hours,  remov- 
ing scum  as  it  forms  on  top  of  kettle.  Add  one  quart 
liquor  in  which  a  fowl  was  cooked,  and  simmer  two  hours. 
Cook  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and  celery  in  butter  five  min- 
utes; then  add  to  soup,  with  remaining  seasonings.  Cook 
one  and  one-half  hours,  strain,  cool  quickly,  remove  fat, 
and  clear. 

Consomm6  k  la  Royal 

Consummd,  served  with  Royal  custsQ-d. 

Consomm^  au  Parmesan 
Consumme,  served  with  Parmesan  Pate  d  ChoUo 

Coiisomm^  Colbert 
To  six  cups  Consomme  add  one-third  cup  each  of  cooked 
green  peas,  flageolets,  carrots  cut  in  small  cubes,  and  celery 
cut  in  small  pieces.     Serve  a  poached  egg  in  each  plate  of 
soup. 


SOUPS  129 

Consomm^  auz  F&tes 
Consomm^,  served  with  noodles,  macaroni,  spaghetti,  or 
any  Italian  pastes,  first  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water. 

Consomm^  d'Orleans 

Consomme,  served  with  red  and  white  quenelles  and 
French  peas. 

Consomme  vrith  Vegetables 
Consomme,  serv^ed  with  French  string  beans,  and  cooked 
carrots  cut  in  fancy  shapes  with  French  vegetable  cutters. 

Consomme  Princess 

Consomme,  served  with  green  peas  and  cooked  chicken 
meat  cut  in  small  dice. 

Claret  Consomm6 

To  one  quart  Consomme  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
claret,  which  has  been  cooked  with  a  three-inch  piece  stick 
cinnamon  ten  minutes  and  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Color 
red. 

Bortchock  Consomm^ 

Mai^e  same  as  Consomme,  adding  one-third  cup  chopped 
beets  with  vegetables  ;  then  add  one  cup  finely  chopped 
beets  when  clearing. 

SOXTPS  WITH  FISH  STOCK 

Clam  Bouillon 

Wash  and  scrub  with  a  brush  one-half  peck  clams,  chang- 
ing the  water  several  times.  Put  in  kettle  with  three  cups 
cold  water,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  until  shells}  are  well 
opened.     Strain  liquor,  cool,  and  clear. 

Oyster  Stew 

1  quart  oysters  ^  cup  butter 

4  cups  scalded  milk  }4  tablespoon  salt 

^  teaspoon  pepper 

Clean  oysters  by  placing  in  a  colander  and  pouring  over 
them   three-fourths  cup  cold  water.      Carefully  pick  over 


130  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

oysters,  reserve  liquor,  and  heat  it  to  boiling-point ;  strain 
through  double  cheesecloth,  add  oysters,  and  cook  until 
oysters  are  plump  and  edges  begin  to  curl.  Remove  oysters 
with  skimmer,  and  put  in  tureen  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Add  oyster  liquor  strained  a  second  time,  and 
milk.     Serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

Scallop  Stew 

Make  same  as  Oyster  Stew,  using  one  quart  scallops  in 
place  of  oysters. 

Oyster  Soup  ^ 

1  quart  oysters  Sprig  of  parsley 

4  cups  milk  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

1  slice  onion  }{  cup  butter 

2  stalks  celery  }4  ^^P  ^onv 

2  blades  mace  Salt  and  pepper 

Clean  and  pick  over  oysters  as  for  Oyster  Stew ;  reserve 
liquor,  add  oysters  slightly  chopped,  heat  slowly  to  boiling- 
point,  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Strain  through 
cheesecloth,  reheat  liquor,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  celery,  mace,  pars- 
ley, and  bay  leaf;  remove  seasonings,  and  add  to  oyster 
liquor.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

French  Oyster  Soup 

1  quart  oysters  ^  cup  butter 

4  cups  milk  %  cup  flour 

1  slice  onion  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  blades  mace  Salt  and  pepper 

Make  same  as  Oyster  Soup,  adding  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly 
beaten,  just  before  serving.     Garnish  with  Fish  Quenelles. 

Oyster  Soup,  Amsterdam  Style 

1  quart  oysters  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Water  -  Paprika 

8  tablespoons  butter  Celery  salt 

S]^  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  cream 

Clean,  pick  over,  chop,  and  parboil  oysters ;  drain,  strain 
through  cheesecloth,  and  add  to  liquor  enough  water  to 
make  one  quart  liquid.     Brown  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour 


SOUPS  131 

on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  oyster  liquor.     Let 
simmer  one-half  hour:     Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and  celery 
salt,  and  just  before  serving  add  cream. 
Oyster  Grumbo 

1  pint  oysters  %  can  okra 

4  cups  Fish  Stock  %  can  tomatoes 

1^  cup  butter  Salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  Pepper 

Clean,  pick  over,  and  parboil  oysters;  drain,  and  add 
oyster  liquor  to  Fish  Stock.  Cook  onion  five  minutes  in 
one-half  the  butter ;  add  to  stock.  Then  add  okra,  toma- 
toes heated  and  drained  from  some  of  their  liquor,  oysters, 
and  remaining  butter.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Fish  Stock  is  the  liquor  obtained  by  covering  the  head, 
tail,  skin,  bones,  and  small  quantity  of  flesh  adhering  to 
bones  of  fish,  with  cold  water,  bringing  slowly  to  boiling- 
point,  simmering  thirty  minutes,  and  straining. 

Clam  Soup  with  Poaclied  Eggs 
1  quart  clams  2  tablespoons  flour 

4  cups  milk  IX  teaspoons  salt 

1  slice  onion  yi  teaspoon  pepper 

%  cup  butter  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

White  1  Qgg 

Clean  and  pick  over  clams,  using  three-fourths  cup  cold 
water;  reserve  liquor.  Put  aside  soft  part  of  clams ;  finely 
chop  hard  part,  add  to  liquor,  bring  gradually  to  boiling- 
point,  strain  through  cheesecloth,  and  thicken  with  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove 
onion,  add  milk,  seasonings,  and  soft  part  of  clams.  Bring 
to  boiling-point  and  pour  over  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Clam  and  Oyster  Soup 

1  pint  clams  Sprig  of  parsley 

1  pint  oysters  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

4  cups  milk  K  ^^V  butter 

1  slice  onion  %  cup  flour 

2  blades  mace  Salt  and  pepper 
Clean   and  pick  over  oysters,  using  one-third  cup   cold 

water;  reserve  liquor,  and  add  oysters  slightly  chopped. 


132  BOSTON  COOKIKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Clean  and  pick  over  clams,  reserve  liquor,  and  add  to 
hard  part  of  clams,  finely  chopped ;  put  aside  soft  part  of 
clams.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling-point  clams  and  oysters 
with  liquor  from  both,  let  simmer  twenty  minutes  and  strain 
through  cheesecloth.  Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together  and  add  soft  part  of  clams.  Scald  milk  with  onion, 
mace,  parsley,  and  bay  leaf;  remove  seasonings,  and  add 
milk  to  stock.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Cream  of  Clam  Soup 
Make  same  as  French  Oyster  Soup,  using  clams  in  place 
of  oysters. 

Clam  Consomm^ 
Wash  two  quarts  clams  in  shell.     Put  in  kettle  with  one- 
fourth  cup  cold  water,  cover,  and  cook  until  shells  open. 
Strain  liquor  through  double  thickness  cheesecloth,  add  to 
four  cups  consomme,  and  clear. 

Clam  and  Chicken  Frapp^ 

Wash  and  scrub  with  a  brush  two  quarts  clams,  changing 
water  several  times.  Put  in  kettle  with  one-half  cup  cold 
water,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  until  shells  are  well  opened. 
Remove  clams  from  shells  and  strain  liquor  through  double 
thickness  cheesecloth.  To  one  and  two-thirds  cups  clam 
liquor  add  two  and  one-half  cups  White  Stock  III,  highly 
seasoned.  Cool,  nnd  freeze  to  a  mush.  Serve  in  place  of 
a  soup  in  frappe  glasses,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

Clam  and  Tomato  Bisque 

1  quart  clams  2  cups  cream 

13^  cups  cold  water  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 

y^  cup  butter  tomatoes 

y^  flour  ^  teaspoon  soda 

%  onion  ,  Salt 

Cayenne 

Pour  water  over  clams,  then  drain.  To  water  add  hard 
part  of  clams  finely  chopped.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling-point, 
cook  twenty  minutes,  then  strain.  Cook  butter  with  onion 
five  minutes;  remove  onion,  add  flour  and  gradually  clam 


SOUPS  133 

water.  Add  cream,  soft  part  of  clams,  aud  as  soon  as 
boiling-point  is  reached,  tomatoes  to  which  soda  has  been 
added.     Season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  serve  at  once. 

Oyster  Bisque 

1  quart  oysters  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

2  cups  White  Stock  III  2  tablespoons  butter 
\}^  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  4  cups  scalded  milk 

2  stalks  celery  Salt 
Sprig  of  parsley  Pepper 

Clean  and  pick  over  oysters,  reserving  liquor,  setting 
aside  soft  portions,  and  chopping  gills  and  tough  muscles. 
Cook  White  Stock,  bread  crumbs,  reserved  liquor,  chopped 
oyster,  onion,  celery,  parsley,  and  bay  leaf  thirty  minutes. 
Rub  through  a  sieve,  bring  to  boiling-point,  and  bind  with 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  milk,  soft  portion 
of  oysters,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

V  Cream  of  Scallop  Soup 

1  quart  scallops  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 
4  cups  milk                                 5  tablespoons  butter 

2  cloves  1^  cup  flour 
Bit  of  bay  leaf  Salt 

3^  teaspoon  peppercorns  Pepper 

Clean  scallops,  reserve  one-half  cup  and  finely  chop 
remainder.  Add  these  to  milk,  with  seasonings  and  two 
tablespoons  butter,  and  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes.  Strain 
and  thicken  with  remaining  butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 
Parboil  reserved  scallops,  and  add  to  soup.  Serve  with 
small  biscuits  or  oysterettes. 

Lobster  Bisque 
2  lb.  lobster  K  cup  butter 

2  cups  cold  water  J^  cup  flour 

4  cups  milk  lli  teaspoons  salt 

Few  grains  of  cayenne 

Remove  meat  from  lobster  shell.  Add  cold  water  to 
body  bones  and  tough  end  o/  claws,  cut  in  pieces ;  bring 
slowly  to  boiling-point,  and  cook  twenty  rainutet-     Drain, 


134  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

reserve  liquor,  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together.  Scald  milk  with  tail  meat  of  lobster,  finely 
chopped;  strain,  and  add  to  liquor.  Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne ;  then  add  tender  claw  meat,  cut  in  dice,  and 
body  meat.  When  coral  is  found  in  lobster,  wash,  wipe, 
force  through  fine  strainer,  put  in  a  mortar  with  butter, 
work  until  well  blended,  then  add  flour,  and  stir  into  soup. 
If  a  richer  soup  is  desired,  White  Stock  may  be  used  in 
place  of  water. 


Utensils  for  making  Cream  Soups.  —  Page  136. 


C&KAM  Soup  and  Croutons  ready   foe  sertiko.  —  Page  136. 


I  k«m!,v^ysmiJmm»M,- 


L_..^ 


CiiouTONS ;   Imperial  Sticks  ;   Mock   Almoxds.  —  Page  145. 


Sourri^D  Crackers.  —  Page  llfS, 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  STOCK  135 


CHAPTER  IX 

SOUPS  WITHOUT   STOCK 

Black  Bean  Soup 

1  pint  black  beans  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  quarts  cold  water  ^  teaspoon  mustard 

1  small  onion  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  stalks  celery,  or  3  tablespoons  butter 
'^  teaspoon  celery  salt  1%  tablespoons  flour 
}4  tablespoon  salt  2  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs 

1  lemon 

Soak  beans  over  night ;  in  the  morning  drain  and  add  cold 
water.  Slice  onion,  and  cook  five  minutes  with  half  the  but- 
ter, adding  to  beans,  with  celery  stalks  broken  in  pieces. 
Simmer  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  beans  are  soft;  add 
more  water  as  water  boils  away.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  re- 
heat to  the  boiling-point,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and 
cayenne  well  mixed.  Bind  with  remaining  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Cut  eggs  in  thin  slices,  and  lemon  in  thin 
slices,  removing  seeds.  Put  in  tureen,  and  strain  the  soup 
over  them. 

Baked  Bean   Soup 
3  cups  cold  baked  beans  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  pints  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  slices  onion  1  tablespoon  Chili  sauce 

2  stalks  celery  Salt 

1%  cups  stewed  and  strainied  Pepper 
tomatoes 
Put  beans,  water,  onion,  and  celery  in  saucepan;  bring 
to  boiling-point  and  simmer  thirty  minutes.  Rub  through 
a  sieve,  add  tomato,  and  Chili  sauce,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  bind  with  the  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together.     Serve  with  Crisp  Crackers. 


136  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cream  of  Lima  Bean  Soup 

1  cup  dried  lima  beans  1  cup  cream  or  milk 

3  pints  cold  water  4  tablespoons  butter 

2  slices  onion  2  tablespoons  flour 

4  slices  carrot  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Soak  beans  over  night ;  in  the  morning  drain  and  add  cold 
water;  cook  until  soft,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cut  vege- 
tables in  small  cubes,  and  cook  five  minutes  in  half  the 
butter;  remove  vegetables,  add  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  and 
stir  into  boiling  soup.  Add  cream,  reheat,  strain,  and  add 
remaining  butter  in  small  pieces. 

Cream  of  Artichoke  Soup 

6  artichokes  Few  grains  cayenne 

4  cups  boiling  water  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  Sauterne  wine 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  scalded  cream 

\%  teaspoons  salt  1  ^g'^ 

2  cucumbers 

Cook  artichokes  in  boiling  water  until  soft,  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  pour  on  hot 
liquor,  and  cook  one  minute.  Add  cream,  wine,  and  ^gg 
slightly  beaten.  Pare  cucumbers,  cut  in  one-third  inch  cubes, 
saute  in  butter,  and  add  to  soup.  Jerusalem  artichokes  are 
used  for  the  making  of  this  soup. 

.Celery  Soup  I 

3  cups  celery  (cut  in  one-half  1  slice  onion 

inch  pieces)  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  pint  boiling  water  %  cup  flour 

2%  cups  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

"Wash  and  scrape  celery  before  cutting  in  pieces,  cook  in 
boiling  water  until  soft,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Scald  milk 
with  the  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk  to  celery.  Bind 
with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Outer  and  old  stalks  of  celery  may  be  utilized 
for  soups.  Serve  with  crotltons,  crisp  crackers,  or  pulled 
bread. 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  STOCK  137 

Celery  Soup  II 
3  stalks  celery  3  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  milk  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  cream 

Break  celery  in  one-inch  pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortal 

Cook  in  double  boiler  with  onion  and  milk  twenty  minute? 

and  strain.     Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  cream,  strain  into  tureen, 

and  serve  at  once. 

Com  Soup 
1  can  corn  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  pint  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  onion  Few  grains  pepper 

Chop  the  corn,  add  water,  and  simmer  twenty  minutes  ;  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion,  and 
add  milk  to  corn.  Bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 
Add  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  with  popped  corn. 

Halibut  Soup 
%  cup  cold  boiled  halibut  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  pint  milk  13^  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  %  teaspoon  salt 

Blade  of  mace  Few  grains  pepper 

Rub  fish  through  a  sieve.  Scald  milk  with  onion  and  mace. 
Remove  seasoning*,  and  add  fish.  Bind  with  half  the  butter 
and 'flour  cooked  together.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  the  re- 
maining butter  in  small  pieces. 

Pea  Soup 

1  can  Marrowfat  peas  1  slice  onion 

2  teaspoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 
1  pint  cold  water                      2  tablespoons  flour 

1  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Drain  peas  from  their  liquor,  add  sugar  and  cold  water, 
and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  reheat, 
and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Scald 
milk  with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk  to  pea  mixture. 


138  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Peas  too  old  to  serve  as  a 
vegetable  may  be  utilized  for  soups. 

Split  Pea  Soup 

1  cup  dried  split  peas  3  tablespoons  butter 

2%  quarts  cold  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  pint  milk  Ij^  teaspoons  salt 

^  onion  3^  teaspoon  pepper 

2-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork 

Pick  over  peas  and  soak  several  hours,  drain,  add  cold 
water,  pork,  and  onion.  Simmer  three  or  four  hours,  or 
until  soft;  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together,  salt,  and  pepper.  Dilute  with  milk,  adding  more 
if  necessary.  The  water  in  which  a  ham  has  been  cooked 
may  be  used;  in  such  case  omit  salt. 

Kornlet  Soup 

1  can  kornlet  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

1  pint  cold  water  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  milk,  scalded  1%  teaspoons  salt 

4  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  pepper 

Cook  kornlet  in  cold  water  twenty  minutes ;  rub  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  milk.  Fry  butter  and  onion  three  minutes; 
remove  onion,  add  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  stir  into  boil- 
ing soup. 

Potato  Soup 

3  potatoes  1%  teaspoons  salt 

1  quart  milk  ^  teaspoon  celery  salt 

2  slices  onion  %  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Cook  potatoes  in  boiling  salted  water;  when  soft,  rub 
through  a  strainer.  There  should  be  two  cups.  Scald  milk 
with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk  slowly  to  potatoes. 
Melt  half  the  butter,  add  dry  ingredients,  stir  until  well 
mixed,  then  stir  into  hot  soup ;  boil  one  minute,  strain,  add 
remaining  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

Appledore  Soup 
Make  same  as  Potato  Soup,  and  add,  just  before  serving, 
three  tablespoons  tomato  catsup. 


SOUPS  WITHOUT  STOCK  139 

Swiss  Potato  Soup 

4  small  potatoes  %  onion 

1  large  flat  white  turnip  4  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  boiling  water  y^  cup  flour 

1  quart  scalded  milk  \%  teaspoons  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

"Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potatoes  in  halves.  Wash,  pare, 
and  cut  turnips  in  one-quarter  inch  slices.  Parboil  together 
ten  minutes,  drain,  add  onion  cut  in  slices,  and  three  cups 
boiling  water.  Cook  until  vegetables  are  soft;  drain,  re- 
serving the  water  to  add  to  vegetables  after  rubbing  them 
through  a  sieve.  Add  milk,  reheat,  and  bind  with  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Leek  and  Potato  Soup 

1  bunch  leeks  2)^  cups  potatoes 

1  cup  celery  2  tablespoons  butter 

23^  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Cayenne 

Cut  leeks  and  celery  in  very  thin  slices  crosswise  and  cook 
in  two. and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  stirring  constantly, 
ten  minutes.  Add  milk,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  forty  min- 
utes. Cut  potatoes  in  slices  and  cut  slices  in  small  pieces ; 
then  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  ten  minutes.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  flour,  milk  with  vegetables  and 
potatoes.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  soft,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne. 

Vegetable  Soup 

y^  cup  carrot  1  quart  water 

J^  cup  turnip  5  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  celery  ^  tablespoon  finely 

\%  cups  potato  chopped  parsley 

1^  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  and  scrape  a  small  carrot ;  cut  in  quarters  length- 
wise; cut  quarters  in  thirds  lengthwise;  cut  strips  thus 
made  in  thin  slices  crosswise.  Wash  and  pare  half  a  turnip, 
and  cut  and  slice  same  as  carrot.  Wash,  pare,  and  cut  po- 
tatoes in  small  pieces.  Wash  and  scrape  celery  and  cut  in 
quarter-inch  pieces.    Prepare  vegetables  before  measuring. 


140  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cut  onion  in  thin  slices.  Mix  vegetables  (except  potatoes), 
and  cook  ten  minutes,  in  four  tablespoons  butter,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  potatoes,  cover,  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Add  water,  and  boil  one  hour  or  until  vegetables  are  soft. 
Add  remaining  butter  and  parsley.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Salmon  Soup 
y^  can  salmon  4  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  scalded  milk  1%  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  pepper 

Drain  oil  from  salmon,  remove  skin  and  bones,  rub  through 
*a  sieve.     Add  gradually  the  milk,  season,  and  bind. 

Squash  Soup 
%  cup  cooked  squash  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  onion  Few  grains  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  i^  teaspoon  celery  salt 

Rub  squash  through  a  sieve  before  measuring.  Scald  milk 
with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk  to  squash;  season, 
and  bind. 

Tomato  Soup 
1  quart  tomatoes,  raw  or  canned       2  teaspoons  sugar 
1  pint  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

12  peppercorns  %  teaspoon  soda 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  cloves  3  tablespoons  flour 

I  1  slice  onion 

Cook  tomatoes,  water,  seasonings,  and  sugar  twenty 
minutes ;  strain,  and  add  salt  and  soda.  Brown  butter  and 
flour  cooked  together ;  bind,  and  strain  into  tureen. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

%  can  tomatoes  1  slice  onion 

2  teaspoons  sugar  4  tablespoons  flour 

^    ^  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  %  teaspoon  pepper 

%  cup  butter 

Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion,  and  thicken  milk 
with  flour  diluted  with  cold  water  until  thin  enough  to  pour, 
being  careful  that  the  mixture  is  free  from  lumps ;   cook 


SOUPS   WITHOUT   STOCK  141 

twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  at  first.  Cook  tomatoes 
with  sugar  fifteen  minutes,  add  soda,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve  ;  combine  mixtures,  and  strain  into  tureen  over  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

2  cups  raw  or  canned  tomatoes   Bit  of  bay  leaf 
2  teaspoons  sugar  ^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

%  teaspoon  soda  4  cups  milk 

3^  onioD,  stuck  with  6  cloves        )^  tablespoon  salt 
Sprig  of  parsley  %  teaspoon  pepper 

3^  cup  butter 

Scald  milk  with  bread  crumbs,  onion,  parsley,  and  bay 
leaf.  Remove  seasonings  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook 
tomatoes  with  sugar  fifteen  minutes ;  add  soda  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Reheat  bread  and  milk  to  boiling-point, 
add  tomatoes,  and  pour  at  once  into  tureen  over  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Serv^e  with  crodtons,  crisp  crackers,  or  sonified 
crackers. 

Tapioca  Wine  Soup 

y^  cup  pearl  tapioca  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  cold  water  3-inch  piece  stick  cinnamon 

3  cups  boiling  water  1  pint  claret  wine 

%  cup  powdered  sugar 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  two  hours.  Drain,  add  to  boil- 
ing water  with  salt  and  cinnamon ;  let  boil  three  minutes, 
then  cook  in  double  boiler  until  tapioca  is  transparent. 
Cool,  add  wine  and  sugar.     Serve  very  cold. 


CHOWDERS 

Corn  Chowder 

1  can  corn  1  sliced  onion 

4  cups  potatoes,  cut  in  4  cups  scalded  milll 

*  ^'^-inch  slices  8  common  crackers 

l>^-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork  3  tablespoons  butter 

Salt  and  pepper   '^ 

Cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out ;  add  onion  and  cook 
five  miautes,  stirring  often  that  onion  may  not  burn ;  strain 


142  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

fat  into  a  stewpan.  Parboil  potatoes  five  minutes  in  boiling 
water  to  cover;  drain,  and  add  potatoes  to  fat;  then  add 
two  cups  boiling  water;  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft,  add 
corn  and  milk,  then  heat  to  boiling-point.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper;  add  butter,  and  crackers  split  and  soaked  in 
enough  cold  milk  to  moisten.  Remove  crackers,  turn  chow- 
der into  a  tureen,  and  put  crackers  on  top. 

Fish  Chowder 

4  lb,  cod  or  haddock  l)^-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork 

6  cups  potatoes  cut  in  ^-inch  1  tablespoon  salt 

slices,  or  %  teaspoon  pepper 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  3  tablespoons  butter 

^-inch  cubes  4  cups  scalded  milk 

1  sliced  onion  8  common  crackers 

Order  the  fish  skinned,  but  head  and  tail  left  on.  Cut  off 
head  and  tail  and  remove  fish  from  backbone.  Cut  fish  in 
two-inch  pieces  and  set  aside.  Put  head,  tail,  and  backbone 
broken  in  pieces,  in  stewpan ;  add  two  cups  cold  water  and 
bring  slowly  to  boiling-point;  cook  twenty  minutes.  Cut 
salt  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out,  add  onion,  and  fry 
five  minutes;  strain  fat  into  stewpan.  Parboil  potatoes  five 
minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover ;  drain  and  add  potatoes 
to  fat ;  then  add  two  cops  boiling  water  and  cook  five  min- 
utes. Add  liquor  drained  from  bones,  then  add  the  fish; 
cover,  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Add  milk,  salt,  pepper, 
butter,  and  crackers  split  and  soaked  in  enough  cold  milk  to 
moisten,  otherwise  they  will  be  soft  on  the  outside,  but  dry 
on  the  inside.  Pilot  bread  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of 
common  crackers. 

Connecticut  Chowder  «.-^ 
4  lb.  cod  or  haddock  2>^  cups  stewed  and 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  %-  strained  tomatoes 

ir.ch  cubes  8  tablespoons  butter 

l)^-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork  %  cap  cracker  crumbs 

1  sliced  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Prepare  same  as  Fish  Chowder,  using  liquor  drained  from 
bones  for  cooking  potatoes,  instead  of  additional  water.  Use 
tomatoes  in  place  of  milk  and  add  cracker  crumbs  just  before 
serving. 


SOUPS   WITHOUT  STOCK  148 


Clam  Cho^vder 

1  qnart  clams  1  tablespoon  salt 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  3^  teaspoon  pepper 

X-i^ch  cubes  4  tablespoons  butter 

1%  inch  cube  fat  salt  pork  4  cups  scalded  milk 

1  sliced  onion  8  common  crackers 

Clean  and  pick  over  clams,  using  one  cup  cold  water; 
drain,  reserve  liquor,  heat  to  boiling-point,  and  strain. 
Chop  finely  hard  part  of  clams;  cut  pork  in  small  pieces 
and  try  out ;  add  onion,  fry  five  minutes,  and  strain  into  a 
stewpan.  Parboil  potatoes  five  minutes  in  boiling  water  to 
cover;  drain,  and  put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  stewpan,  add 
chopped  clams,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge 
generously  with  flour ;  add  reniaining  potatoes,  again  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  ajdd  two  and 
one-half  cups  boiling  water.  Cook  ten  minutes,  add  milk, 
soft  part  of  clams,  and  butter ;  boil  three  minutes,  and  add 
crackers  split  and  soaked  in  enough  cold  milk  to  moisten. 
Reheat  clam  water  to  boiling-point,  and  thicken  with  one 
tablespoon  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  to  chow- 
der just  before  serving. 

The  clam  water  has  a  tendency  to  cause  the  milk  to  sepa- 
rate, hence  is  added  at  the  last. 

Rhode  Island  Chowder 

1  quart  clams  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 

3  inch  cube  fat  salt  pork  tomatoes 

1  sliced  onion  ^  teaspoon  soda 
}4  cup  cold  water                     *  1  cup  scalded  milk" 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  %  inch  1  -sup  scalded  cream 

cubes         ,  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  boiling  water  8  common  crackers 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  pork  with  onion  and  cold  water  ten  miiiutes;  drain, 
and  reserve  liquor.  Wash  clams  and  reserve  liquor.  Par- 
boil potatoes  five  minutes,  and  drain.  To  potatoes  add  re- 
served liquors,  hard  part  of  clams  finely  chopped,  and  boil- 
ing water.  When  potatoes  are  nearly  done,  add  tomatoes, 
soda,  soft  part  of  clams,  milk,  cream,  and  butter.     Season 


144  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

with  salt  and  pepper.     Split  crackers,  soak  in  cold  milk  to 
moisten,  and  reheat  in  chowder. 

Lobster  Chowder 

2  lb.  lobster  4  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  slice  onioii 

2  common  crackers,  1  cup  cold  water 

finely  pounded  Salt 

Paprika  or  cayenne 

Remove  meat  from  lobster  shell  and  cut  in  small  dice. 
Cream  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  liver  of  lobster  (green 
part)  and  crackers ;  scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion, ' 
and  add  milk  to  mixture.  Cook  body  bones  ten  minutes 
in  cold  water  to  cover,  strain,  and  add  to  mixture  with 
lobster  dice.     Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

German  Chowder 

3  lb.  haddock  1  beaten  egg 

1  quart  cold  water  1  quart  potatoes  cut  in 

2  slices  carrot  X-i^^ch  cubes 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  2-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork 

Sprig  of  parsley  1  sliced  onion 

1  cracker,  pounded  5  tablespoons  flour 
Salt,  pepper,  cayenne  1  quart  scalded  milk 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  3=^  cup  butter 
Few  drops  onion  juice  8  common  crackers 

Clean,  skin,  and  bone  fish.  Add  to  bones  cold  water  and 
vegetables,  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Strain  stock 
from  bones.  Chop  fish  meat ;  there  should  be  one  and  one- 
half  cups.  Add  cracker,  seasonings,  melted  butter  and  egg^ 
then  shape  in  small  balls.  Try  out  pork,  add  onion,  and 
cook  five  minutes.  Strain,  and  add  to  fatj  potatoes,  balls, 
r*nd  fish  stock,  and  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft.  Thicken 
milk  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Combine  mix- 
tures, and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 
Add  crackers,  split  and  soaked  in  cold  milk. 


SOUP  GARNISHINGS  AND  FORCE-MEATS  146 


CHAPTER  X 
SOUP  GARNISHINGS   AND  FORCE-MEATS 

Crisp  Crackers 
Split  common  crackers  and  spread  thinly  with  butter,  al- 
lowing one-fourth  teaspoon  butter  to  each  half  cracker ;  put 
in  pan  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 

Sou£Eled  Crackers 
Split  common  crackers,  and  soak  in  ice  water,  to  cover^ 
eight  minutes.     Dot  over  with  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until   puffed  and   browned,  the  time  required   being  about 
forty-five  minutes. 

Crackers  "with  Cheese 

Arrange  zephyrettes  or  saltines  in  pan.  Sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Croiitons  (Duchess  Crusts) 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  slices  and  remove  crusts. 
Spread  thinly  with  butter.  Cut  slices  in  one-third  inch  cubes, 
put  in  pan  and  bake  until  delicately  brown,  or  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

Cheese  Sticks 

Cut  bread  sticks  in  halves  lengthwise,  spread  thinly  with 
butter,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  seasoned  with  salt  an<l 
cayenne,  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 

.  Imperial  Sticks  in  Rings 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  slices,  remove  crusts, 
spread  thinly  with  butter,  and  cut  slices  in  one-third  inch 
strips  and  rings ;  put  in  pan  and  bake  until  delicately 
browned.     Arrange  three  sticks  in  each  ring. 


146  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Mock  Almonds 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-eighth  inch  slices,  shape  with  a 
round  cutter  one  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter,  then  shape 
in  almond-shaped  pieces.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter, 
put  in  a  pan,  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 

Pulled  Bread 

Remove  crusts  from  a  long  loaf  of  freshly  baked  water 
bread.  Pull  the  bread  apart  until  the  pieces  are  the  desired 
size  and  length,  which  is  best  accomplished  by  using  two 
three-tined  forks.  Cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately 
browned  and  thoroughly  dried.  A  baker's  French  loaf  may 
be  used  for  pulled  bread  if  home-made  is  not  at  hand. 

Egg  Balls  I 

Yolks  2  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs    Few  grains  cayenne 

3^  teaspoon  salt  %  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Rub  yolks  through  sieve,  add  seasonings,  and  moisten 
with  raw  egg  yolk  to  make  of  consistency  to  handle.  Shape 
in  small  balls,  roll  in  flour,  and  saute  in  butter.  Serve  in 
Brown  Soup  Stock,  Consomme,  or  Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Egg  Balls  II 

1  "  hard-boiled  "  egg        Few  grains  cayenne 
y^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  heavy  cream 

J^  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

Rub  yolk  through  a  sieve,  add  white  finely  chopped,  and 
remaining  ingredients.  Add  raw  egg  yolk  to  make  mixture 
of  right  consistency  to  handle.  Shape  in  small  balls,  and 
poach  in  boiling  water  or  stock. 

Egg  Custard 

Yolks  2  eggs  Few  grains  salfc 

.    2  tablespoons  milk 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  milk  and  salt.  Pour  into  small 
buttered  cup,  place  in  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until  firm  ; 
cool,  remove  from  cup,  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes  with  French 
vegetable  cutters. 


SOUP  GARNISHINGS   AND   FORCE-MEATS  147 

Harlequin  Slices 
Yolks  3  eggs              .  Whites  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  milk  Few  grains  salt 

Few  grains  salt  Chopped  truffles 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly,  add  milk  and  salt.  Pour  into 
small  buttered  cup,  place  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until 
firm.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  and  cook  sam.e 
as  yolks.  Cool,  remove  from  cups,  cut  in  slices,  pack  in  a 
mould  in  alternate  layers,  and  press  with  a  weight.  A  few 
truffles  may  be  sprinkled  between  slices  if  desired.  Remove 
from  mould  and  cut  in  slices.     Serve  in  Consomme. 

Royal  Custard 

Yolks  3  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

%  cup  Consomme  Few  grains  cayenne 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  Consomme  and  seasonings.  Pour 
into  a  small  buttered  tin  mould,  place  in  pan  of  hot  water, 
and  bake  until  firm ;  cool,  remove  from  mould,  and  cut  in 
fancy  shapes. 

Chicken  Custard 

Chop  cooked  breast  meat  of  fowl  and  rub  through  sieve; 
there  should  be  one-fourth  cup.  Add  one-fourth  cup  White 
Stock  and  one  egg  slightly  beaten.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
celery  salt,  paprika,  slight  grating  nutmeg,  and  few  drops 
essence  anchovy.  Turn  mixture  into  buttered  mould,  bake 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  firm;  cool,  remove  from  mould, 
and  cut  in  small  cubes. 

Noodles 
1  e^  %  teaspoon  salt 

Flour 

Beat  egg  slightly,  add  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
very  stiff  dough ;  knead,  toss  on  slightly  floured  board,  and 
roll  thinly  as  possible,  which  may  be  as  thin  as  paper. 
Cover  with  towel,  and  set  aside  for  twenty  minutes ;  then 
cut  in  fancy  shapes,  using  sharp  knife  or  French  vegetable 
cutter ;  or  the  thin  sheet  may  be  rolled  like  jelly -roll,  cut  in 


148  BOSTON  COOKTNG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

slices  as  thinly  as  possible,  and  pieces  unrolled.  Dry,  and 
when  needed  cook  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water; 
drain,  and  add  to  soup. 

Noodles  may  be  served  as  a  vegetable. 

Fritter  Beans 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  milk  %  cup  flour 

Beat  Qg^  until  light,  add  milk,  salt,  and  flour.  Put  through 
colander  or  pastry  tube  into  deep  fat,  and  fry  until  brown ; 
drain  on  brown  paper.- 

pate  k  Choux 

2)^  tablespoons  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  lard  ^  cup  flour 

y^  teaspoon  butter  1  egg 

Heat  butter,  lard,  and  milk  to  boiling-point,  add  flour  and 
salt,  and  stir  vigorously.  Remove  from  fire,  add  Qgg  un- 
beaten, and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Cool,  and  drop  small 
pieces  from  tip  of  teaspoon  into  deep  fat.  Fry  until  brown 
and  crisp,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Parmesan  Pate  k  Choux 
To  Pdte  d   Choux  mixture  add   two  tablespoons  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

"White  Bait  G-arnish 
Roll  trimmings   of  puff  paste,   and  cut  in  pieces  three- 
fourths  inch  long  and  one-eighth  inch  wide ;  fry  in  deep  fat 
until  well  browned,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.     Serve  on 
folded  napkin,  and  pass  with  soup. 

Fish  Force-meat  I 

y^  cups  fine  stale  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

y^  cup  milk  %  cup  raw  fish 

Salt 

Cook  bread  and  milk  to  a  paste,  add  ^gg  well  beaten,  and 
fish  pounded  and  forced  through  a  puree  strainer.  Season 
with  salt.  A  meat  chopper  is  of  great  assistance  in  making 
force-meats,  as  raw  fish  or  meat  may  be  easily  forced  through 


SOUP  GARNISHINGS  AND  FORCE-MEAT  149 

it.     Bass,  halibut,  or  pickerel  are  the  best  fish  to  use  for 
force-meat.     Force-meat  is  often  shaped  into  small  balls. 

Pish  Force-meat  II 

^  cup  raw  halibut  Pepper 

White  1  egg  Cayenne 

Salt  }£  cup  heavy  cream 

Chop  fish  finely,  or  force  through  a  meat  chopper.  Pound 
in  mortar,  adding  gradually  white  of  egg,  and  working  until 
smooth.  Add  seasonings,  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  then  add 
cream. 

Salmon  Force-meat 

}4  cup  milk  1  egg 

J4  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

^  cup  cold  flaked  salmon  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  cream  Few  grains  pepper 

Cook  milk  and  bread  crumbs  ten  minutes,  add  salmon 
chopped  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve ;  then  add  cream,  egg 
slightly  beaten,  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Oyster  Force-meat 
To  Fish '  Force-meat  add  one-fourth  small  onion,  finely 
chopped,  and  fried  five  minutes  in  one-half  tablespoon  butter ; 
then  add  one-third  cup  soft  part  of  oysters,  parboiled  and 
finely  chopped,  one-third  cup  mushrooms  finely  chopped,  and 
one-third  cup  Thick  White  Sauce.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne, 
and  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Clam  Force-meat 
Follow  recipe  for  Oyster  Force-meat,  using  soft  part  of 
clams  in  place  of  oysters. 

Chicken  Force-meat  I 

)4  cup  fine  stale  bread  crumbs  %  cup  breast  raw  chicken 

J4  cup  milk  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

White  1  egg  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

Cook  bread  and  milk  to  a  paste,  add  butter,  white  of  egg 
beaten  stiff,  and  seasonings ;  then  add  chicken  pounded  and 
forced  through  pur^e  strainer. 


150  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Chicken  Force-meat  II 

%  breast  raw  chicken  Pepper 

White  1  Qgg  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

Salt  Heavy  cream 

Chop  chicken  finely,  or  force  through  a  meat  chopper. 
Pound  in  mortar,  add  gradually  white  of  ^^.g,  and  work 
until  smooth ;  then  add  heavy  cream  slowly  until  of  right 
consistency,  which  can  only  be  determined  by  cooking  a 
small  ball  in  boiling  salted  water.  Add  seasonings,  and  rub 
through  sieve. 

Quenelles 

Quenelles  are  made  from  any  kind  of  force-meat,  shaped 
in  small  balls  or  between  tablespoons,  making  an  oval,  or  by 
forcing  mixture  through  pastry  bag  on  buttered  paper. 
They  are  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water  or  stock,  and  are 
served  as  garnish  to  soups  or  other  dishes ;  when  served 
with  sauce,  they  are  an  entree. 


FISH  151 


CHAPTER  XI 

FISH 

THE  meat  of  fish  is  the  animal  food  next  in  importance 
to  that  of  birds  and  mammals.  Fish  meat,  ^ith  but 
few  exceptions,  is  less  stimulating  and  nourishing  than  meat 
of  other  animals,  but  is  usually  easier  of  digestion.  Salmon, 
mackerel,  and  eels  are  exceptions  to  these  rules,  and  should 
not  be  eaten  by  those  of  weak  digestion.  White  fish,  on 
account  of  their  easy  digestibility,  are  especially  desirable 
for  those  of  sedentary  habits.  Fish  is  not  recommended  for 
brain-workers  on  account  of  the  large  amount  of  phosphorus 
(an  element  abounding  largely  in  nerve  tissue)  which  it  con- 
tains, but  because  of  its  easy  digestibility.  It  is  a  conceded 
fact  that  many  fish  contain  less  of  this  element  than  meat. 

Fish  meat  is  generally  considered  cheaper  than  meat  of 
other  animals.  This  is  true  when  compared  with  the  better 
cuts  of  meat,  but  not  so  when  compared  with  cheaper  cuts. 

To  obtain  from  fish  its  greatest  value  and  flavor,  it  should 
be  eaten  fresh,  and  in  season.  Turbot,  which  is  improved 
by  keeping,  is  the  only  exception  to  this  rule. 

To  Determine  Freshness  of  Fish.  Examine  the  flesh,  and 
it  should  be  firm;  the  eyes  and  gills,  and  they  should  be 
bright. 

Broiling  and  baking  are  best  methods  for  cooking  fish. 
White  fish  may  often  be  fried,  but  oily  rarely.  Frozen  fish 
are  undesirable,  but  if  used,  should  be  thawed  in  cold  water 
just  before  cooking. 

On  account  of  its  strong  odor,  fish  should  never  be  put  in 
an  ice-box  with  other  food,  unless  closely  covered.  A  tin 
lard  pail  will  be  found  useful  for  this  purpose. 


152  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

White  and  Oily  Fish 

White  fish  have  fat  secreted  in  the  liver.  Examples :  cod, 
haddock,  trout,  flounder,  smelt,  perch,  etc. 

Oily  fish  have  fat  distributed  throughout  the  flesh.  Ex- 
amples :  salmon,  eels,  mackerel,  bluetish,  swordfish,  shad, 
herring,  etc. 

Cod  belongs  to  one  of  the  most  prolific  fish  families 
(Gadidoe),  and  is  widely  distributed  throughout  the  northern 
and  temperate  seas  of  both  hemispheres.  On  account  of  its 
abundance,  cheapness,  and  easy  procurability,  it  forms, 
from  an  economical  standpoint,  one  of  the  most  important 
fish  foods.  Cod  have  been  caught  weighing  over  a  hundred 
pounds,  but  average  market  cod  weigh  from  six  to  ten 
pounds  ;  a  six-pound  cod  measures  about  twenty-three  inches 
in  length.  Large  cod  are  cut  into  steaks.  The  skin  of  cod 
is  white,  heavily  mottled  with  gray,  with  a  white  line  run- 
ning the  entire  length  of  fish  on  either  side.  Cod  is  caught 
in  shallow  or  deep  waters.  Shallow-water  cod  (caught  off 
rocks)  is  called  rock  cod ;  deep-water  cod  is  called  off-shore 
cod.  Rock  cod  are  apt  to  be  wormy.  Cod  obtained  off 
George's  Banks,  Newfoundland,  are  called  George's  cod, 
and  are  commercially  known  as  the  best  fish.  Quantities  of 
cod  are  preserved  by  drying  and  salting.  Salted  George's 
cod  is  the  best  brand  on  the  market.  Cod  is  in  season 
throughout  the  year. 

Cod  Liver  Oil  is  obtained  from  cods'  livers,  and  has  great 
therapeutic  value.  Isinglass,  made  from  swimming  bladder 
of  cod,  nearly  equals  in  quality  that  made  from  bladder  of 
sturgeon. 

Haddock  is  more  closely  allied  to  cod  than  any  other  fish. 
It  is  smaller  (its  average  weight  being  about  four  pounds), 
and  differently  mottled.  The  distinguishing  mark  of  the 
haddock  is  a  black  line  running  the  entire  length  of  fish  on 
either  side.  Haddock  is  found  in  the  same  water  and  in 
company  with  cod,  but  not  so  abundantly.  Like  cod,  had- 
dock is  cheap,  and  in  season  throughout  the  year.  Haddock, 
when  dried,  smoked,  and  salted,  is  known  as  Finnan  Haddie. 

Halibut  is  the  largest  of  the  flatfish  family  (Pleuronectidse), 


riSH  153 

specimens  having  been  caught  weighing  from  three  to  four 
hundred  pounds.  Small,  or  chicken,  halibut  is  the  kind 
usually  found  in  market,  and  weighs  from  fifteen  to  twenty- 
five  pounds.  Halibut  are  distinctively  cold-water  fish,  being 
caught  in  water  at  from  32°  to  45°  F.  They  are  found  in 
the  North  Atlantic  and  North  Pacific  oceans,  where  they  are 
nearly  identical.  The  halibut  has  a  compressed  body,  the 
skin  on  one  side  being  white,  on  the  other  light,  or  dark  gray, 
and  both  eyes  are  found  on  the  dark  side  of  head.  Halibut 
is  in  season  throughout  the  year. 

Turbot  (called  little  halibut)  is  a  species  of  the  flatfish 
family,  being  smaller  than  halibut,  and  of  more  delicate 
flavor.     Turbot  are  in  season  from  January  to  March. 

Flounder  is  a  small  flatfish,  which  closely  resembles  the 
sole  which  is  caught  in  English  waters,  and  is  often  served 
under  that  name. 

Trout  are  generally  fresh-water  fish,  varying  much  in  size 
and  skin-coloring.  Lake  trout,  which  are  the  largest,  reach 
their  greatest  perfection  in  Lakes  Huron,  Michigan,  and 
Superior,  but  are  found  in  many  lakes.  Salmon  trout  is  the 
name  applied  to  trout  caught  in  New  York  lakes.  Brook 
trout,  caught  in  brooks  and  small  lakes,  are  superior  eating. 
Trout  are  in  season  from  April  to  August,  but  a  few  are 
found  later. 

Whitefish  is  the  finest  fish  found  in  the  Great  Lakes. 

Smelts  are  small  salt-water  fish,  and  are  usually  caught  in 
temperate  waters  at  the  mouths  of  rivers.  New  Brunswick 
and  Maine  send  large  quantities  of  smelts  to  market. 
Selected  smelts  are  the  largest  in  size,  and  command  higher 
price.  The  Massachusetts  Fish  and  Game  Protective  Law 
forbids  their  sale  from  March  15th  to  June  1st.  Smelts  are 
always  sold  by  the  pound. 

Bluefish  belongs  to  the  Pomatomidae  family.  It  is  widely 
distributed  in  temperate  waters,  taking  different  names  in 
different  localities.  In  New  England  and  the  Middle  States 
it  is  generally  called  Bluefish,  although  in  some  parts  called 
Snappers,  or  Snapping  Mackerel.  In  the  Southern  States  it 
is  called  Greenfish.  It  is  in  season  in  our  markets  from  May 
to  October;  as  it  is  frozen  and  kept  in  cold  storage  froui 


154  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

SIX  to  nine  months,  it  may  be  obtained  throughout  the  year. 
The  heavier  the  fish,  the  better  its  quality.  Bluefish  weigh 
from  one  to  eight  pounds,  and  are  from  fourteen  to  twenty- 
nine  inches  in  length. 

Mackerel  is  one  of  the  best-known  food  fishes,  and  is 
caught  in  North  Atlantic  waters.  Its  skin  is  lustrous  dark 
blue  above,  with  wavy  blackish  lines,  and  silvery  below.  It 
sometimes  attains  a  length  of  eighteen  inches,  but  is  usually 
less.  Mackerel  weigh  from  three-fourths  of  a  pound  to  two 
pounds,  and  are  sold  by  the  piece.  They  are  in  season  from 
May  1st  to  September  1st.  Mackerel,  when  first  in  market, 
contain  less  fat  than  later  in  the  season,  therefore  are  easier 
of  digestion.  The  supply  of  mackerel  varies  greatly  from 
year  to  year,  and  some  years  is  very  small.  Spanish 
mackerel  are  found  in  waters  farther  south  than  common 
mackerel,  and  in  our  markets  command  higher  price. 

Salmon  live  in  both  fresh  and  salt  waters,  always  going, 
inland,  usually  to  the  head  of  rivers,  during  the  spawning 
season.  The  young  after  a  time  seek  salt  water,  but 
generally  return  to  fresh  water.  Penobscot  River  Salmon 
are  the  best,  and  come  from  Maine  and  St.  John,  New 
Brunswick.  The  average  weight  of  salmon  is  from  fifteen 
to  twenty-five  pounds,  and  the  fiesh  is  of  pinkish  orange 
color.  Salmon  are  in  season  from  May  to  September,  but 
frozen  salmon  may  be  obtained  the  greater  part  of  the  year. 
In  the  Columbia  River  and  its  tributaries  salmon  are  so  abun- 
dant that  extensive  canneries  are  built  along  the  banks. 

Shad,  like  salmon,  are  found  in  both  salt  and  fresh  water, 
always  ascending  rivers  for  spawning.  Shad  is  caught  on 
the  Atlantic  Coast  of  the  United  States,  and  its  capture  con- 
stitutes one  of  the  most  important  fisheries.  Shad  have  a 
silvery  hue,  which  becomes  bluish  on  the  back ;  they  vary  in 
length  from  eighteen  to  twenty-eight  inches,  and  are  always 
sold  by  the  piece,  price  being  irrespective  of  size.  Jack  shad 
are  usually  cheaper  than  roe  shad.  The  roe  of  shad  is  highly 
esteemed.  Shad  are  in  season  from  January  to  June.  First 
shad  in  market  come  from  Florida,  and  retail  from  one  and 
one-half  to  two  dollars  each.  The  finest  come  from  New 
Brunswick,  and  appear  in  market  about  the  first  of  May. 


SHELLFISH  155 

Caviare  is  the  salted  roe  of  the  sturgeon. 
Herring  are  usually  smoked,  or  smoked  and  salted,  and, 
being  very  cheap,  are  a  most  economical  food. 


SHELLFISH 

I.     Bivalve  MoUusks 

Oysters  are  mollusks,  having  two  shells.  The  shells  are 
on  the  right  and  left  side  of  the  oyster,  and  are  called  right 
and  left  valves.  The  one  upon  which  the  oyster  rests  grows 
faster,  becomes  deeper,  and  is  known  as  the  left  valve. 
The  valves  are  fastened  by  a  ligament,  which,  on  account  of 
its  elasticity,  admits  of  opening  and  closing  of  the  shells. 
The  oyster  contains  a  tough  muscle,  by  which  it  is  attached 
to  the  shell ;  the  body  is  made  up  largely  of  the  liver  (which 
contains  glycogen^  animal  starch),  and  is  partially  surrounded 
by  fluted  layers,  which  are  the  gills.  Natural  oyster  beds 
(or  banks)  are  found  in  shallow  salt  water  having  stony  bot- 
tom, along  the  entire  Atlantic  Coast.  The  oyster  industry 
of  the  world  is  chiefly  in  the  United  States  and  France,  and 
on  account  of  its  increase  many  artificial  beds  have  been 
prepared  for  oyster  culture.  Oysters  are  five  years  old  be- 
fore suitable  for  eating.  Blue  Points,  which  are  small, 
plump  oysters,  take  their  name  from  Blue  Point,  Long 
Island,  from  which  place  they  originally  came.  Their  popu- 
larity grew  so  rapidly  that  the  supply  became  inadequate  for 
the  demand,  and  any  small,  plump  oysters  were  soon  sold 
for  Blue  Points.  During  the  oyster  season  they  form  the 
first  course  of  a  dinner,  served  raw  on  the  half-shell.  In 
our  markets,  selected  oysters  (which  are  extremely  large  and 
used  for  broiling)  Providence  River,  and  Norfolk  oysters  are 
familiarly  known,  and,  taken  out  of  the  shells,  are  sold  by 
the  quart.     Farther  south,  they  are  sold  by  count. 

Oysters  are  obtainable  all  the  year,  but  are  in  season  from 
September  to  May.  During  the  summer  months  they  are 
flabby  and  of  poor  flavor,  although  when  fresh  they  are  per- 
fectly wholesome.  Mussels^  eaten  in  England  and  other 
parts  of  Europe,  are  Bimilar  to  oysters,  though  of  Inferior 


156  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

quality.      Oysters  are  nutritious  and  of   easy  digestibility, 
especially  when  eaten  raw. 

To  Open  Oysters.  Put  a  thin  flat  knife  under  the  back 
end  of  the  right  valve,  and  push  forward  until  it  cuts  the 
strong  muscle  which  holds  the  shells  together.  As  soon  as 
this  is  done,  the  right  valve  may  be  raised  and  separated 
from  the  left. 

To  Clean  Oysters,  Put  oysters  in  a  strainer  placed  over  a 
bowl.  Pour  over  oysters  cold  water,  allowing  one-half  cup 
water  to  each  quart  oysters.  Carefully  pick  over  oysters, 
taking  each  one  separately  in  the  fingers,  to  remove  any 
particles  of  shell  which  adhere  to  tough  muscle. 

Clams,  among  bivalve  mollusks,  rank  in  value  next  to 
oysters.  They  are  found  just  below  the  surface  of  sand  and 
mud,  above  low- water  mark,  and  are  easily  dug  with  shovel  or 
rake.  Clams  have  hard  or  soft  shells.  Soft-shell  clams  are 
dear  to  the  New  Englander.  From  New  York  to  Florida 
are  found  hard-shelled  clams  (quahaugs).  Small  quahaugs 
are  called  Little  JSFeck  Clams  and  take  the  place  of  Blue 
Points  at  dinner,  when  Blue  Points  are  out  of  season. 

Scallops  are  bivalve  mollusks,  the  best  being  found  in 
Long  Island  Sound  and  Narragansett  Bay.  The  central 
muscle  forms  the  edible  portion,  and  is  the  only  part  sent  to 
market.  Scallops  are  in  season  from  October  first  to  April 
first. 

n.   Crustaceans 

Lobsters  belong  to  the  highest  order  of  Crustaceans,  live 
exclusively  in  sea-water,  generally  near  rocky  coasts,  and 
are  caught  in  pots  set  on  gravelly  bottoms.  The  largest 
and  best  species  are  found  in  Atlantic  waters  from  Maine 
to  New  Jersey,  being  most  abundant  on  Maine  and  Massa- 
chusetts coasts.  Lobsters  have  been  found  weighing  from 
sixteen  to  twenty-five  pounds,  but  such  have  been  exter- 
minated from  our  coast  The  average  weight  is  two 
pounds,  and  the  length  from  ten  to  fifteen  inches.  Lob- 
sters are  largest  and  most  abundant  from  June  to  Septem- 
ber, but  are  obtainable  all  the  year.  When  taken  from 
the  water,  shells  i^re  of  mottled  dark  green  color,  except 


SHELLFISH  157 

when  found  on  sandy  bottoms,  when  they  are  quite  red. 
Lobsters  are  generally  boiled,  causing  the  shell  to  turn 
red. 

A  lobster  consists  of  body,  tail,  two  large  claws,  and 
four  pairs  of  small  claws.  On  lower  side  of  body,  in  front 
of  large  claws,  are  various  small  organs  which  surround 
the  mouth,  and  a  long  and  short  pair  of  feelers.  Under 
the  tail  are  found  several  pairs  of  appendages.  In  the 
female  lobster,  also  called  hen  lobster,  is  found,  during 
the  breeding  season,  the  spawn,  known  as  coral.  Sex  is 
determined  by  the  pair  of  appendages  in  the  tail  which  lie 
nearest  the  body ;  in  the  female  they  are  soft  and  pliable, 
in  the  male  hard  and  stiff.  At  one  time  small  lobsters 
were  taken  in  such  quantities  that  it  was  feared,  if  the 
practice  was  long  continued,  they  would  be  exterminated. 
To  protect  the  continuance  of  lobster  fisheries,  a  law  has 
been  passed  in  many  States  prohibiting  their  sale  unless 
at  least  ten  inches  long. 

Lobsters  shed  their  shells  at  irregular  intervals,  when 
old  ones  are  outgrown.  The  new  ones  begin  to  form  and 
take  on  distinctive  characteristics  before  the  old  ones  are 
discarded.  New  shells  after  twenty-four  hours'  exposure 
to  the  water  are  quite  hard. 

Lobsters,  being  coarse  feeders  (taking  almost  any  animal 
substance  attainable),  are  difficult  of  digestion,  and  with 
some  create  great  gastric  disturbance;  notwithstanding, 
they  are  seldom  found  diseased. 

To  Select  a  Lobster.  Take  in  the  hand,  and  if  heavy  in 
proportion  to  its  size,  the  lobster  is  fresh.  Straighten  the 
tail,  and  if  it  springs  into  place  the  lobster  was  alive  (as  it 
should  have  been)  when  put  into  the  pot  for  boiling.  There 
is  greater  shrinkage  in  lobsters  than  in  any  other  fish. 

To  Open  Lobsters.  Take  off  large  claws,  small  claws, 
and  separate  tail  from  body.  Tail  meat  may  sometimes 
be  drawn  out  whole  with  a  fork ;  more  often  it  is  neces- 
sary to  cut  the  thin  shell  portion  (using  scissors  or  a  can- 
opener)  in  under  part  of  the  tail,  then  the  tail  meat  may 
always  be  removed  whole.  Separate  tail  meat  through 
centre,    and   remove   the  small  intestinal  vein   which  runs 


158  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

its  entire  length ;  although  generally  darker  than  the  meat, 
it  is  sometimes  found  of  the  same  color.  Hold  body  shell 
firmly  in  left  hand,  and  with  first  t\ro  fingers  and  thumb  of 
right  hand  draw  out  the  body,  leaving  in  shell  the  stomach 
(known  as  the  lady),  which  is  not  edible,  and  also  some  of 
the  green  part,  the  liver.  The  liver  may  be  removed  by 
shaking  the  shell.  The  sides  of  the  body  are  covered  with 
the  lungs  ;  these  are  always  discarded.  Break  body  through 
the  middle  and  separate  body  bones,  picking  out  meat  that 
lies  between  them,  which  is  some  of  the  sweetest  and  ten- 
derest  to  be  found.  Separate  large  claws  at  joints.  If 
shells  are  thin,  with  a  knife  cut  off  a  strip  down  the  sharp 
edge,  so  that  shell  may  be  broken  apart  and  meat  removed 
whole.  Where  shell  is  thick,  it  must  be  broken  with  a 
mallet  or  hammer.  Small  claws  are  used  for  garnishing. 
The  shell  of  body,  tail,  and  lower  part  of  large  claws,  if  not 
broken,  may  be  'washed,  dried,  and  used  for  serving  of 
lobster  meat  after  it  has  been  prepared.  The  portions  of 
lobsters  which  are  not  edible  are  lungs,  stomach  (lady),  and 
intestinal  vein. 

Crabs  among  Crustaceans  are  next  in  importance  to  lob- 
sters, commercially  speaking.  They  are  about  two  and  one- 
half  inches  long  by  five  inches  wide,  and  are  found  along 
the  Atlantic  Coast  from  Massachusetts  to  Florida,  and  in  the 
Gulf  of  Mexico.  Crabs,  like  lobsters,  change  their  shells. 
Soft-shell  crabs  are  those  which  have  recently  shed  their  old 
shells,  and  the  new  shells  have  not  had  time  to  harden  ;  these 
are  considered  by  many  a  great  luxury.  Oyster  crabs  (very 
small  crabs  found  in  shells  with  oysters)  are  a  delicacy  not 
often  indulged  in.  Crabs  are  in  season  during  the  spring 
and  summer. 

Shrimps  are  found  largely  in  our  Southern  waters,  the 
largest  and  best  coming  from  Lake  Pontchartrain.  They 
are  about  two  inches- long,  covered  with  a  thin  shell,  and  are 
boiled  and  sent  to  market  with  heads  removed.  Their  gray- 
ish color  is  changed  to  pink  by  boiling.  Shrimps  are  in  sea- 
son from  May  first  to  October  first,  and  are  generally  used 
for  salads.  Canned  shrimps  are  much  used  and  favorably 
known. 


SHELLFISH  159 

Reptiles.     Frogs  and  terrapin  belong  to  a  lower  order  of 

animals  than  fish,  —  reptiles.  They  are  both  table  delica- 
cies, and  are  eaten  by  the  few. 

Only  the  hind  legs  of  frogs  are  eaten,  and  have  much  the 
same  flavor  as  chicken. 

Terrapin,  although  sold  in  our  large  cities,  specially  be- 
long to  Philadelphia,  Baltimore,  and  "Washington,  where  they 
are  cooked  and  served  at  their  best.  They  are  shipped  from 
the  South,  packed  in  seaweed,  and  may  be  kept  for  some 
time  in  a  dark  place.  Terrapin  are  found  in  both  fresh  and 
salt  water.  The  Diamond  Back,  salt-water  terrapin,  coming 
from  Chesapeake  Bay,  are  considered  the  best,  and  command 
a  very  high  price.  Terrapin  closely  resembling  Diamond 
Back,  coming  from  Texas  and  Florida,  are  principally  sold 
in  our  markets.  Terrapin  are  in  season  from  November  to 
April,  but  are  best  in  January,  February,  and  March.  They 
should  always  be  cooked  alive. 


TO  PREPARE  FISH  FOR  COOKING 

To  Clean  a  Pish.  Fish  are  cleaned  and  dressed  at  mar- 
ket as  ordered,  but  need  additional  cleaning  before  cooking. 
Remove  scales  which  have  not  been  taken  off.  This  is  done 
by  drawing  a  knife  over  fish,  beginning  at  tail  and  working 
towards  head,  occasionally  wiping  knife  and  scales  from  fish. 
Incline  knife  slightly  towards  you  to  prevent  scales  from 
flying.  The  largest  number  of  scales  will  be  found  on  the 
flank.  Wipe  thoroughly  inside  and  out  with  cloth  wrung  out 
of  cold  water,  removing  any  clotted  blood  which  may  be 
found  adhering  to  backbone. 

Head  and  tail  may  or  may  not  be  removed,  according  to 
size  of  fish  and  manner  of  cooking.  Small  fish  are  generally 
served  with  head  and  tail  left  on. 

To  Skin  a  Fish.  With  sharp  knife  remove  fins  along  the 
back  and  cut  off  a  narrow  strip  of  skin  the  entire  length  of 
back.  Loosen  skin  on  one  side  from  bony  part  of  gills,  and 
being  once  started,  if  fish  is  fresh,  it  may  be  readily  drawn 
off;  if  flesh  is  soft  do  not  work  too  quickly,  as  it  will  be 
badly  torn.     By  allowing  knife  to  closely  follow  skin  this 


160  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

may  be  avoided.  After  removing  skin  from  one  side,  turn 
fish  and  skin  the  other  side. 

To  Bone  a  Fish.  Clean  and  skin  before  boning.  Begin- 
ning at  the  tail,  run  a  sharp  knife  under  flesh  close  to  back- 
bone, and  with  knife  follow  bone  (making  as  clean  a  cut  as 
possible)  its  entire  length,  thus  accomplishing  the  removal  of 
one-half  the  flesh ;  turn,  and  remove  flesh  from  other  side. 
Pick  out  with  fingers  any  small  bones  that  may  remain. 
Cod,  haddock,  halibut,  and  whitefish  are  easily  and  fre- 
quently boned  ;  flounders  and  smelts  occasionally. 

To  Fillet  Fiaji.  Clean,  skin,  and  bone.  A  piece  of  fish, 
large  or  small,  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  is  known  as  a 
fillet.  Halibut,  cut  in  three-fourths  inch  slices,  is  more  often 
cut  in  fillets  than  any  kind  of  fish,  and  fillets  are  frequently 
rolled.  When  flounder  is  cut  in  fillets  it  is  served  under  the 
name  of  fillet  of  sole.  Sole  found  in  English  waters  is  much 
esteemed,  and  flounder  is  our  nearest  approach  to  it. 


WAYS  OF  COOKING  FISH 

To  Cook  Fish  in  Boiling  Water.  Small  cod,  haddock,  or 
cusk  are  cooked  whole  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  to 
which  is  added  salt  and. lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Salt  gives 
flavor ;  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  keeps  the  flesh  white.  A  long 
fish-kettle  containing  a  rack  on  which  to  place  fish  is  useful 
but  rather  expensive.  In  place  of  fish-kettle,  if  the  fish  is 
not  too  large  to  be  coiled  in  it,  a  frying-basket  may  be  used 
placed  in  any  kettle. 

Large  fish  are  cut  in  thick  pieces  for  boiling,  containing 
the  number  of  pounds  required.  Examples:  salmon  and 
halibut. 

Pieces  cut  from  large  fish  for  boiling  should  be  cleaned 
and  tied  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  to  prevent  scum  being 
deposited  on  the  fish.  If  skin  is  not  removed  before  serv- 
ing, scald  the  dark  skin  and  scrape  to  remove  coloring ;  this 
may  be  easily  accomplished  by  holding  fish  on  two  forks, 
and  lowering  into  boiling  water  the  part  covered  with  black 
skin ;  then  remove  and  scrape.  Time  required  for  boiling 
fish  depends  on  extent  of  surface  exposed  to  water.    Con- 


Boiled    Mackerel,    garnished    with    Potato    Balls,    Cucumber 

Ribbons,  Slices  of  Lemon  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  Parsley. 

Page  161. 


HoLLENDEN  Halibut.  —  Page  167. 


STtnTED  Haddock  beadt  ro»  baking.  —  Page  I64. 


Smsi^ts  p&epased  for  cooKiifa.  —  Page  173. 


COMPOSITION   OF  VARIOUS   FISH  161 

suit  Time-Table  for  Boiling,  which  will  serve  as  a  guide. 
The  fish  is  cooked  when  flesh  leaves  the  bone,  no  matter 
how  long  the  time. 

To  Broil  Fish.  Cod,  haddock,  bluefish,  and  mackerel  are 
split  down  the  back  and  broiled  whole,  removing  head  and 
tail  or  not,  as  desired.  Salmon,  chicken  halibut,  and  sword- 
fish  are  cut  in  inch  slices  for  broiling.  Smelts  and  other 
small  fish  are  broiled  whole,  without  splitting.  Clean  and 
wipe  fish  as  dry  as  possible,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  place  in  well-greased  wire  broiler.  Slices  of  fish  should 
be  turned  often  while  broiling;  whole  fish  should  be  first 
broiled  on  flesh  side,  then  turned  and  broiled  on  skin  side  just 
long  enough  to  make  skin  brown  and  crisp. 

To  remove  from  broiler,  loosen  fish  on  one  side,  turn  and 
loosen  on  other  side ;  otherwise  flesh  will  cling  to  broiler. 
Slip  from  broiler  to  hot  platter,  or  plac^  platter  over  fish  and 
invert  platter  and  broiler  together. 

To  Bake  Fish.  Clean,  and  bake  on  a  greased  fish-sheet 
placed  in  a  dripping-pan.  If  a  fish-sheet  is  not  at  hand, 
place  strips  of  cotton  cloth  under  fish,  by  which  it  may  be 
lifted  from  pan. 

To  Fry  Fish.  Clean  fish,  and  wipe  as  dry  as  possible. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  dip  in  flour  or  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

To  Saut^  Fish.  Prepare  as  for  frying,  and  cook  in  frying- 
pan  with  small  amount  of  fat ;  or,  if  preferred,  dip  in  granu- 
lated corn  meal.  Cod  steak  and  smelts  are  often  cooked  in 
this  way. 

TABLE  SHOWING  COMPOSITION  OF  THE 
VARIOUS  FISH  USED  FOR  FOOD 

Mineral 
Articles  Refuse       Proteid        Fat        matter  Water 


Bass,  black  .     .     . 

.     54.8 

9.3 

.8 

.5 

34.6 

Bluefish  .... 

.     55.7 

a.3 

.5 

.5 

35. 

Butterfish     .     .     . 

.     42.8 

10.2 

6.3 

.6 

40.1 

Cod,  fresh    .     .     . 

.     52.5 

8. 

.2 

.6 

38.7 

Cod,  salt,  boneless 

22.2 

.3 

23.1 

54.4 

Cusk  .     .     .     ... 

.     40.3 

10.1 
11 

.1 

.5 

49. 

162 


BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Minera 

I 

Articles 

Refuse 

Proteid 

Fat 

matter 

Water 

Eels 

.     20.2 

14.6 

7.2 

.8 

57.2 

Flounder      .     .     . 

.    61.5 

5.6 

.3 

.5 

32.1 

Haddock      .     .     . 

.     51. 

8.2 

.2 

.6 

40. 

Halibut,  sections  . 

.     17.7 

15.1 

4.4 

.9 

61.9 

Herring  .     .     .     . 

.    42.6 

10.9 

3.9 

.9 

41.7 

Mackerel      .     .     . 

.    44.6 

10. 

4.3 

.7 

40.4 

Mackerel,  Spanish 

.     34.6 

13.7 

6.2 

1. 

44.5 

Perch,  white     .     . 

.     62.5 

7.2 

L5 

.4 

28.4 

Pickerel  .... 

.     47.1 

9.8 

.2 

.7 

42.2 

Pompano      .     .     . 

.     45.5 

10.2 

4.3 

.5 

39.5 

Red  Snapper     .     . 

.     46.1 

10.6 

.6 

.7 

42. 

Salmon    .... 

.     39.2 

12.4 

8.1 

.9 

39.4 

Shad  ..... 

.     50.1 
Carbo- 
hydrates 

9.2 

4.8 

.7 

35.2 

Shad,  roe      ... 

.       2.6 

Refuse 

20.9 

3.8 

1.5 

71.2 

Sheepshead  .     .     . 

.     66. 

6.4 

.2 

.5 

26.9 

Smelts     .... 

.     41.9 

10. 

1. 

1. 

46.1 

Trout      .     .     .     . 

.     48.1 

9.8 

1.1 

.6 

40.4 

Turbot     .... 

.     47.7 

6.8 

7.5 

.7 

37.3 

Whitefish     .     .     . 

.     53.5 

10.3 

3. 

.7 

1 

Carbo- 
lydrates 

32.5 

Lobsters  .... 

.     61.7 

5.9 

.7 

.8 

.2 

30.7 

Clams,  out  of  shell 

, 

10.6 

1.1 

2.3 

5.2 

80.8 

Oysters,  solid   .     . 

• 

6.1 

1.4 

.9 

3.3 

88.3 

Crabs,  soft  shell     . 

. 

15.8 

1.5 

2. 

.7 

80. 

W.  0.  Atwatery  Ph.D. 


Boiled  Haddock 
Clean  and  boil  as  directed  in  Ways  of  Cooking  Fish.     Re- 
move to  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with  slices  of  ''  hard-boiled  " 
eggs  and  parsley,  and  serve  with  Egg  Sauce.     A  thick  piece 
of  halibut  may  be  boiled  and  served  in  the  same  way. 

Boiled  Salmon 
Clean  and  boil   as  directed  in  Ways  of  Cooking  Fish. 
Place  on  a  hot  platter,  remove  skin,  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  lemon  and  parsley.     Serve  with  Egg  Sauce  I  or  II,  or 
Hollandaise  Sauce. 


BROILED  STUFFED  FISH  163 

Steamed  Halibut,  Silesian  Sauce 

Steam  by  cooking  over  boiling  water  a  piece  of  halibut 
weighing  two  pounds,  and  serve  with  Silesian  Sauce. 

1)^  tablespoons  vinegar  Yolks  3  eggs 

%  teaspoon  powdered  tarragon  %  cup  Brown  Stock 

3  peppercorns  ^  cup  butter 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  1  tablespoon  flour 

Sprig  of  parsley  y^  tablespoon  capers 

%  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot  }4  tablespoon  parsley 
Salt  and  cayenne 

Cook  first  six  ingredients  until  reduced  one-half ;  strain, 
add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half,  each,  brown  stock 
and  butter,  and  cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
thickened.  Then  add,  gradually,  remaining  butter  mixed 
with  flour  and  stock.  As  soon  as  mixture  thickens,  add 
capers,  parsley  finely  chopped,  and  salt  and  cayenne. 

Broiled  Scrod 
A  young  cod,  split  down  the  back,  and  backbone  removed, 
except  a  small  portion  near  the  tail,  is  called  a  scrod.    Scrod 
are  usually  broiled,  spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Haddock  is  also  so  dressed. 

Broiled  Chicken  Halibut 

Clean  and  broil  as  directed  in  Ways  of  Cooking  Fish. 
Spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  sprinkled  with 
paprika  and  parsley. 

Broiled  Swordfish 
Clean  and  broil  fish,  spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  serve  with  Cucumber  Sauce  I,  or  Horseradish 
Sauce  I. 

Broiled  Shad  R<j8 
Wipe,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  on  greased  wire 
broiler,   and  broil  five  minutes  on  each  side.     Serve  with 
Maitre  d'H6tel  Butter.     Mackerel  roe  are  delicious  cooked 
in  this  way. 


164  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Broiled  Pompano  -w^ith  Fricassee  of  Clams 

Clean  and  broil  fish  as  directed  in  AVays  of  Cooking  Fish 
(see  p.  160).  When  nearly  cooked,  slip  from  broiler  onto  a 
hot  platter  and  brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Surround 
with  two  borders  of  mashed  potatoes,  one-inch  apart,  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Arrange  ten  halves  of  clam- 
shells between  potato  borders,  at  equal  distances ;  fill  spaces 
between  shells  with  potato  roses.  Place  in  oven  to  finish 
cooking  fish  and  to  brown  potatoes.  Just  before  serving,  fill 
clam-shells  with 

Fricassee  of  Clams.  Clean  one  pint  clams,  finely  chop 
hard  portions  and  reserve  soft  portions.  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  chopped  clams,  two  tablespoons  flour, 
and  pour  on  gradually  one-third  cup  cream.  Strain  sauce,  add 
soft  part  of  clams,  cook  one  minute,  season  with  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  add  yolk  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten. 

Baked  Haddock  -with  StuflBng 
Clean  a  four-pound  haddock,  sprinkle  with  salt  inside 
^nd  out,  stuff,  and  sew.  Cut  five  diagonal  gashes  on  each 
side  of  backbone  and  insert  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt 
pork,  having  gashes  on  one  side  come  between  gashes 
on  other  side.  Shape  with  skewers  in  form  of  letter  S, 
and  fasten  skewers  with  small  twine.  Place  on  greased 
fish-sheet  in  a  dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
brush  over  with  melted  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  place 
around  fish  small  pieces  of  fat  salt  pork.  Bake  one 
hour  in  hot  oven,  basting  as  soon  as  fat  is  tried  out,  and 
continue  basting  every  ten  minutes.  Serve  wnth  Drawn 
Butter,  Egg  or  Hollandaise  Sauce.  Garnish  with  lemon  and 
parsley. 

Fish   Stuffing  I 

1^  cup  cracker  crumbs  ^=  4  crackers      }^  teaspoon  salt 
^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  }^  teaspoon  pepper 

1^  cup  melted  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

^  cup  hot  water 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 


BAKED  STUFFED   FISH  165 

Fish  Stuffing  .II 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs  Few  drops  onion  juice 

}A  cup  melted  butter  Parsley  )  i  ,  , 

y^  teaspoon  salt  Capers  [  ^  ^^^^\  ^'^\ 

%  teaspoon  pepper  Pickles  )        ne  y  c  oppe 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  This  makes  a  dry,  crumbly 
stuffing. 

Baked  Bluefish 

Clean  a  four-pound  bluefish,  stuff,  sejv,  and  bake  as 
Baked  Halibut  with  Stuffing,  omitting  to  cut  gashes  on 
sides,  as  the  fish  is  rich  enough  without  addition  of  pork. 
Baste  often  with  one-third  cup  butter  melted  in  two-thirds 
cup  boiling  water.     Serve  with  Shrimp  Sauce. 

Breslin  Baked  Bluefish 

Split  and  bone  a  bluefish,  place  on  a  well-buttered  sheet, 
and  cook  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Cream  one-fourth 
cup  butter,  add  yolks  two  eggs,  and  when  well  mixed  add 
two  tablespoons,  each,  onion,  capers,  pickles,  and  parsley, 
finely  chopped  ;  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoon 
vinegar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-third  teaspoon  pap- 
rika. Sprinkle  fish  with  salt,  spread  with  mixture,  and  con- 
tinue the  baking  until  fish  is  done.  Remove  to  serving-dish 
and  garnish  with  potato  balls,  cucumber  ribbons,  lemon  cut 
in  fancy  shapes,  and  parsley. 

Bluefish  k  ritalienne 

Clean  a  four-pound  bluefish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  put  on  buttered  fish-sheet  in  a  dripping  pan.  Add 
three  tablespoons  white  wine,  three  tablespoons  mushroom 
liquor,  one-half  onion  finely  chopped,  eight  mushrooms  finely 
chopped,  and  enough  water  to  allow  sufficient  liquor  in  pan 
for  basting.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven,  basting 
five  times.     Serve  with  Sauce  d,  Tltalienne. 

Baked  Cod  "with  Oyster  Stuffing 
Clean  a  four-pound  cod,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
l?r\3sh  over  with  lemon  juice,  stuff,  and  sew.     Gash,  skewer, 


166  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  bake   as   Baked   Halibut  with   StuflSng.      Serve  with 
Oyster  Sauce. 

Oyster  Stuffing 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  1%  teaspoous  lemon  juice 
^  cup  melted  butter  )^  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
%  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

%  teaspoon  pepper  1  cup  oysters 

Add  seasonings  and  butter  to  cracker  crumbs.  Clean 
oysters,  and  remove  tough  muscles ;  add  soft  parts  to  mix- 
ture, with  two  tablespoons  oyster  liquor  to  moisten. 

Baked  Haddock  -with  Oyster  Stuffing 
Remove  skin,  head,  and  tail  from  a  four-pound  haddock. 
Bone,  leaving  in  large  bones  near  head,  to  keep  fillets  in 
shape  of  the  original  fish.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  brush  over 
with  lemon  juice.  Lay  one  fillet  on  greased  fish-sheet  in  a 
dripping-pan,  cover  thickly  with  oysters,  cleaned  and  dipped 
in  buttered  cracker  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  oysters  with  other  fillet,  brush  with  egg  slightly 
beaten,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  fifty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  Hollandaise  Sauce  I. 
Allow  one  pint  oysters  and  one  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

Baked  Halibut  vrith  Tomato  Sauce 

2  lbs.  halibut  i^  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cups  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  water  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  cloves  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  twenty  minutes  tomatoes,  water,  onion,  cloves,  and 
sugar.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  stir  into  hot  mixture. 
Add  salt  and  pepper,  cook  ten  minutes,  and  strain.  Clean 
fish,  put  in  baking-pan,  pour  around  half  the  sauce,  and  bake 
thirty-five  minutes;  basting  often.  Remove  to  hot  platter, 
pour  around  remaining  sauce,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Baked  Halibut  with  Lobster  Sauce 
Clean   a  piece   of   halibut  weighing  three   pounds.     Cat 
gashes  in  top,  and  insert  a  narrow  strip  of  fat  salt  pork 


BAKED  FISH  167 

in  each  gash.  Place  in  dripping-pan  on  fish-sheet,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Cover  bottom 
of  pan  with  water,  add  sprig  of  parsley,  slice  of  onion,  two 
slices  carrot  cut  in  pieces,  and  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Bake  one 
hour,  basting  with  one-fourth  cup  butter  and  the  liquor  in 
pan.     Serve  with  Lobster  Sauce. 

Hollenden  Halibut 

Arrange  six  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork  two  and  one-half 
inches  square  in  a  dripping-pan.  Cover  with  one  small 
onion,  thinly  sliced,  and  add  a  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Wipe  a  two- 
pound  piece  of  chicken  halibut  and  place  over  pork  and 
onion.  Mask  with  three  tablespoons  butter  creamed  and 
mixed  with  three  tablespoons  flour.  Cover  with  three-fourths 
cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  arrange  thin  strips  of  fat 
salt  pork  over  crumbs.  Cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake 
fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  removing  paper  during  the 
last  fifteen  minutes  of  the  cooking  to  brown  crumbs.  Re- 
move to  hot  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
cut  in  fancy  shapes  sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  parsley 
and  paprika.  Serve  with  White  Sauce  II,  using  fat  in  pan 
in  place  of  butter. 

Baked  Mackerel 

Split  fish,  clean,  and  remove  head  and  tail.  Put  in 
buttered  dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
dot  over  with  butter  (allowing  one  tablespoon  to  a  medium- 
sized  fish),  and  pour  over  two-thirds  cup  milk.  Bake  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Planked  Shad  or  Whitefish 

Clean  and  split  a  three-pound  shad.  Put  skin  side  down 
on  a  buttered  oak  plank  one  inch  thick,  and  a  little  longer  and 
wider  than  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brush 
over  with  melted  butter.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  hot 
oven.  Remove  from  oven,  spread  with  butter,  and  garnish 
with  parsley  and  lemon.  The  fish  should  be  sent  to  the 
table  on  plank.  Planked  Shad  is  well  cooked  in  a  gas  range 
having  the  flame  over  the  fish. 

The  Planked  Whitefish  of  the  Great  Lakes  has  gained 
much  favor. 


168  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Flanked  Shad  with  Creamed  Roe 
Select  a  roe  shad  and  prepare  same  as  Planked  Shad. 
Parboil  roe  in  salted,  acidulated  water  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  outside  membrane,  and  mash.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot,  and 
cook  fiye  minutes ;  add  roe,  sprinkle  with  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-third  cup 
cream.  Cook  slowly  five  minutes,  add  two  egg  yolks  and 
season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice.  Remove 
shad  from  oven,  spread  thin  part  with  roe  mixture,  cover 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  return  to  oven  to  brown  crumbs. 
Garnish  with  mashed  potatoes  forced  through  a  pastry  bag 
and  tube,  small  tomatoes,  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 

Planked  Haddock 
Skin  and  bone  a  haddock,  leaving  meat  in  two  fillets. 
Remove  to  buttered  plank,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 
Garnish  with  mashed  potatoes,  outlining  the  original  shape 
of  the  fish,  making  as  prominent  as  possible  head,  tail, 
and  fins.  Bake  until  potatoes  are  well  browned,  when 
fish  should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  Finish  garnishing  with 
parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  sprinkled  with  finel}^  chopped 
parsley. 

Baked  Stuffed  Smelts 

Clean  and  wipe  as  dry  as  possible  twelve  selected  smelts. 
Stuff,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  over  with 
lemon  juice.  Place  in  buttered  shallow  plate,  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  and  bake  five  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Remove 
from  oven,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown.     Serve  with  Sauce  Bearnaise. 

Stuffing.  Cook  one  tablelpoon  finely  chopped  onion  with 
one  tablespoon  butter  three  minutes.  Add  one-fourth  cup 
finely  chopped  mushrooms,  one-fourth  cup  soft  part  of 
oysters  (parboiled,  drained,  and  chopped),  one-half  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley,  three  tablespoons  Thick  White  Sauce,  and 
one-half  cap  Fish  Force-meat. 


BAKED  FISH  169 

Smelts  k  la  Langtry 

Split  and  bone  eight  selected  smelts.  Cut  off  tails,  and 
from  tail  ends  of  fish  turn  meat  over  one  inch  onto  flesh 
side.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  over  with 
lemon  juice.  Garnish  with  Fish  Force-meat  forced  through 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  fasten  heads  with  skewers  to 
keep  in  an  upright  position.  Arrange  in  a  buttered  pan, 
and  pour  around  white  wine.  Cover  with  buttered  paper, 
and  bake  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Just  before 
taking  from  oven,  sprinkle  with  lobster  coral  forced  through 
a  strainer.     Serve  with  Aurora  Sauce. 

Aurora  Sauce.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-half 
cups  cream  and  one  tablespoon  meat  extract.  Season  with 
salt  and  cayenne,  and  add  lobster  coral  and  one-half  cup 
lobster  dice. 

Baked  Shad  Roe  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Cook  shad  roe  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  to 
cover,  with  one-half  tablespoon  vinegar ;  drain,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Remove  from  cold 
water,  and  place  on  buttered  pan  with  three-fourths  cup 
Tomato  Sauce  I  or  II.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven, 
basting  every  five  minutes.  Remove  to  a  platter,  and  pour 
around  three-fourths  cup  Tomato  Sauce. 

Baked  Fillets  of  Bass  or  Halibut 

Cut  bass  or  halibut  into  small  fillets,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  put  into  a  shallow  pan,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  twelve  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Arrange  on 
a  rice  border,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  HoUan- 
daise  Sauce  II. 

Fillets  of  Halibut  with  Brown  Sauce 

Cut  a  slice  of  halibut  weighing  one  and  one-half  pounds 
in  eight  short  fillets,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in 
greased  pan,  and  bake  five  minutes ;  drain,  pour  over  one 
and  one-half  cups  Brown  Sauce  I,  cover  with  one-half  cup 
buttered  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake. 


170  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Fillets  of  Haddock,  "White  "Wine  Sauce 
Skin  a  three  and  one-half  pound  haddock,  and  cut  in 
fillets.  Arrange  in  buttered  baking-pan,  pour  around  fish 
three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  three-fourths  cup  white  wine 
to  which  has  been  added  one-half  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
and  two  slices  onion.  Cover  and  bake.  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  liquor 
drained  from  fish ;  then  add  one-half  cup  Fish  Stock  (made 
from  head,  tail,  and  bones  of  fish),  two  tablespoons  heavy 
cream,  yolks  two  eggs,  salt,  and  pepper.  Remove  fillets  to 
serving  dish,  pour  over  sauce  strained  through  cheesecloth, 
and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Halibut  k  la  Poulette 

A  slice  of  halibut,  weighing  i^  teaspoon  pepper 

1}^  lbs.  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

^  cup  melted  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

3^  teaspoon  salt 

Clean  fish  and  cut  in  eight  fillets.  Add  seasonings  to 
melted  butter,  and  put  dish  containing  butter  in  saucepan  of 
hot  water  to  keep  butter  melted.  Take  up  each  fillet  sepa- 
rately with  a  fork,  dip  in  butter,  roll  and  fasten  with  a  small 
wooden  skewer.  Put  in  a  shallow  pan,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  bake  twelve  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Remove  skewers, 
arrange  on  platter  for  serving,  pour  around  one  and  one-half 
cups  Bechamel  Sauce,  and  garnish  with  yolks  of  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  rubbed  through  a  strainer,  whites  of  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  strips,  lemon  cut  fan-shaped,  and  parsley. 

Moulded  Fish,  Normandy  Sauce 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  a  thick  piece  of  halibut, 
finely  chop  fish,  and  force  through  a  sieve  (there  should  be 
one  and  one-third  cups).  Pound  in  mortar,  adding  gradu- 
ally whites  two  eggs.  Add  one  and  one-fourth  cups  heavy 
cream,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  fish-mould,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  in  pan  of 
hot  water,  and  bake  until  fish  is  firm.  Turn  on  serving  dish 
and  surround  with 


Plakked  Haddock.  —  Page  168. 


FujLKTS  OF  Fish  a  la  Bemekt.  —  Page  171. 


rir^ 


Oyster  Cocktail  I.  —  Page  180. 


Otstem  CocKTAii  \l.  —  Page  180. 


BAKED  FISH  171 

Normandy  Sauce.  Cook  skin  and  bones  of  fish  with 
three  slices  carrot,  one  slice  onion,  sprig  of  parsley,  bit  of 
bay  leaf,  one-fourth  teaspoon  peppercorns,  and  two  cups 
cold  water,  thirty  minutes,  and  strain;  there  should  be  one 
cup.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons 
flour,  fish  stock,  and  one-third  cup  h^eavy  cream.  Bring  to 
boiling-point  and  add  yolks  two  eggs.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  and  one  tablespoon  Sauterne. 

Halibut  k  la  Martin 
Clean  two  slices  chicken  halibut  and  cut  into  eight  fillets. 
Season  with  salt,  brush  over  with  lemon  juice  and  roll. 
Arrange  on  a  tin  plate  covered  with  cheesecloth,  fold  cheese- 
cloth over  fillets,  and  cook  in  steamer  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move to  serving  dish,  garnish  with  small  shrimps,  and  pour 
around  sauce,  following  directions  for  Normandy  Sauce, 
omitting  Sauterne,  and  seasoning  to  taste  with  grated  cheese 
and  Madeira. 

Fillets  of  Fish  k  la  Bement 

Prepare  and  cook  fish  same  as  for  Halibut  h  la  Martin. 
Insert  tip  of  small  lobster  claw  in  each  fillet,  and  garnish 
with  a  thin  slice  of  canned  mushroom  sprinkled  with  parsley 
and  a  thin  circular  slice  of  truflfle.     Serve  with 

Lobster  Sauce  III.  Remove  meat  from  a  one  and  one-half 
pound  lobster  and  cut  claw  meat  in  cubes.  Cover  remaining 
meat  and  body  bones  with  cold  water.  Add  one-half  small 
onion,  sprig  of  parsley,  bit  of  bay  leaf,  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon peppercorns,  and  cook  until  stock  is  reduced  to  one 
cup.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons 
flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  stock;  then  add  one-half 
cup  heavy  cream  and  yolks  two  eggs.  Season  with  salt, 
lemon  juice,  and  paprika  ;  then  add  lobster  cubes. 

Halibut  k  la  Rarebit 

Sprinkle  two  small  slices  halibut  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
lemon  juice ;  then  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  place  in 
dripping-pan  on  greased  fish-sheet,  and  bake  twelve  minutes. 
Remove  to  hot  platter  for  serving,  and  pour  over  it  a  Welsh 
Rarebit. 


172  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Sand-w^iches  of  Chicken  Halibut 

Cut  chicken  halibut  iu  thin  fillets.  Put  together  in  pairSv 
with  Fish  or  Chicken  Force-meat  between,  first  dipping 
fillets  in  melted  butter  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
brushing  over  with  lemon  juice.  Place  in  shallow  pan  with 
one-fourth  cup  white  wine.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  hot 
oven.  Arrange  on  hot  platter  for  serving,  sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  parsley,  garnish  with  Tomato  Jelly,  and 
serve  with  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Sole  d  la  Bercy 

Skin  and  bone  two  large  flounders,  and  cut  into  eight 
filfets.  Put  into  a  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  lemon  juice,  and  add  one-fourth  cup  white  wine.  Cover 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  pour 
over  Bercy  Sauce,  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Bercy  Sauce.  Fry  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  shallot 
in  one  tablespoon  butter  five  minutes ;  add  two  tablespoons 
flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  liquor  left  in  pan  with 
enough  White  Stock  to  make  one  cup.  Add  two  table- 
spoons butter,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

Halibut  au  Lit 

Wipe  two  slices  chicken  halibut,  each  weighing  three- 
fourths  pound.  Cut  one  piece  in  eight  fillets,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  lemon  juice,  roll  and  fasten  with  small  wooden 
skewers.  Cook  over  boiling  water.  Cut  remaining  slice  in 
pieces  about  the  size  and  shape  of  scallops.  Dip  in  crumbs, 
egg,  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Arrange  a  steamed 
fillet  in  centre  of  each  fish-plate,  place  on  top  of  each  a 
cooked  mushroom  cap,  and  put  fried  fish  at  both  right  and 
left  of  fillet.  Serve  with  Mushroom  Sauce,  and  garnish 
with  watercress  and  radishes  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Mushroom  Sauce.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
three  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually,  while  stir- 
ring constaijtly,  one  cup  Fish  Stock.  When  boiling-point 
is  reached,  add  one-half  cup  cream,  three  mushroom  caps, 
sliced,  and  one  tablespoon  Sauterne.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     The  Fish  Stock  should  be  made  from  skin  and  bones 


FRIED  FISH  173 

of  halibut.     The  mushroom  caps  on  fillets  should  be  cooked 
in  sauce  until  soft. 

Fried  Cod  Steaks 
Clean  steaks,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dip  in 
granulated  corn  meal.     Try  out  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  in 
frying-pan,  remove  scraps,  and  saute  steaks  in  fat. 

Fried  Smelts 

Clean  smelts,  leaving  on  heads  and  tails.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and  fry  three 
to  four  minutes  in  deep  fat.  As  soon  as  smelts  are  put  into 
fat,  remove  fat  to  back  of  range  so  that  they  may  not  be- 
come too  brown  before  cooked  through.  Arrange  on  hot 
platter,  garnish  with  parsley,  lemon,  and  fried  gelatine. 
Serve  with  Sauce  Tartare. 

Smelts  are  fried  without  being  skewered,  but  often  are 
skewered  in  variety  of  shapes. 

To  fry  gelatine.  Take  up  a  few  shreds  and  drop  in  hot, 
deep  fat ;  it  v/ill  immediately  swell  and  become  white ;  it 
should  at  once  be  removed  with  a  skimmer,  then  drained, 

Phosphated  or  granulated  gelatine  cannot  be  used  for 
frying. 

Smelts  k  la  Meniere 

Clean  six  selected  smelts,  and  cut  five  diagonal  gashes  on 
each  side.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice,  cover, 
and  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Roll  in  cream,  dip  in  flour,  and 
saute  in  butter.  Add  to  butter  in  pan  two  tablespoons  flour, 
one  cup  White  Stock,  one  and  one-third  teaspoons  Anchovy 
Essence,  and  a  few  drops  lemon  juice.  Just  before  sauce  is 
poured  around  smelts,  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter  and  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Pried  Fillets  of  Halibut  or  Flounder 

Clean  fish  and  cut  in  long  or  short  fillets.  If  cut  in  long 
fillets,  roll,  and  fasten  with  small  wooden  skewers.  Sprinkle 
fillets  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg^  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  with 
S?iuce  Tartar^. 


174  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Fried  Pish,  Russian  Style,  Mushroom  Sauce 
Cut  two  slices  chicken  halibut  in  fillets,  sprinkle  fillets 
with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  one-third  cup  white  wine, 
cover,  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  dip  each  piece 
separately  in  heavy  cream,  then  in  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Cook  skin  and  bones  removed  from  fish  with  five  slices  carrot, 
two  slices  onion,  sprig  parsley,  bit  of  bay  leaf,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  peppercorns,  and  two  cups  cold  water  until  reduced 
to  one  cup  liquid.  Make  sauce  of  two  tablespoons  butter, 
three  tablespoons  flour,  the  fish  stock,  and  one-third  cup 
heavy  cream.  Add  yolks  two  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne, 
and  white  wine  to  taste. 

Arrange  fish  on  serving  dish,  cover  with  one-half  pound 
mushroom  caps  cleaned,  then  sauted  in  butter,  and  pour 
over  sauce. 

Pried  Eels 
Clean  eels,  cut  in  two-inch  pieces,  and  parboil  eight  min- 
utes.    Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  corn  meal,  and 
saute  in  pork  fat. 

Pried  Stuffed  Smelts 
Smelts  are  stuffed  as  for  Baked  Stuffed  Smelts,  dipped  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fried  in  deep  fat,  and  served  with 
Sauce  Tartare. 

Pried  Shad  Roe^ 

Parboil  and  cook  shad  roe  as  for  Baked  Shad  Roe.  Cut 
in  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  over  with 
lemon  juice.  Dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  and  drain. 

Soft-shell  Crabs. 

Clean  crabs,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs, 
egg,  and  crumbs,"  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain.  Being  light, 
they  will  rise  to  top  of  fat,  and  should  be  turned  while  frying. 
Soft-shell  crabs  are  usually  fried.     Serve  with  Sauce  Tartare. 

To  Clean  a  Crab.  Lift  and  fold  back  the  tapering  points 
which  are  found  on  each  side  of  the  back  shell,  and  remove 
spongy  substance  that  lies  under  them.     Turn  crab  on  its 


TEERAPIN  175 

back,  and  with  a  pointed  knife  remove  the  small  piece  at 
lower  part  of  shell,  which  terminates  in  a  point;  this  is 
called  the  apron. 

Frogs'  Hind  Legs 
Trim  and  clean.     Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  then  fry  three  minutes  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Terrapin 

To  prepare  terrapin  for  cooking,  plunge  into  boiling  water 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Lift  out  of  water  with  skimmer,  and 
remove  skin  from  feet  and  tail  by  rubbing  with  a  towel. 
Draw  out  head  with  a  skewer,  and  rub  off  skin. 

To  Cook  Terrapin.  Put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling 
salted  water,  add  two  slices  each  of  carrot  and  onion,  and  a 
stalk  of  celery.  Cook  until  meat  is  tender,  which  may  be 
determined  by  pressing  feet-meat  between  thumb  and  finger. 
The  time  required  will  be  from  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes. 
Remove  from  water,  cool,  draw  out  nails  from  feet,  cut 
under  shell  close  to  upper  shell  and  remove.  Empty  upper 
shell  and  carefully  remove  and  discard  gall-bladder,  sand- 
bags, and  thick,  heavy  part  of  intestines.  Any  of  the  gall- 
bladder would  give  a  bitter  flavor  to  the  dish.  The  liver, 
small  intestines,  and  eggs  are  used  with  the  meat. 
Terrapin  k  la  Bsdtimore 
1  terrapin  Cayenne 

X  cup  White  Stock  1)4  tablespoons  butter 

1}£  tablespoons  wine  Salt  and  pepper 

Yolks  2  eggs 
To  stock  and  wine  add  terrapin  meat,  with  bones  cut  in 
pieces  and  entrails  cut  in  smaller  pieces ;  then  cook  slowly 
until  liquor  is  reduced  one-half.      Add  liver  separated  in 
pieces,  eggs,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 

Terrapin  4  la  Maryland 
Add  to  Terrapin  k  la  Baltimore  one  tablespoon  each  butter 
and  flour  creamed  together,  one-half  cup  cream,  yolks  two 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice ;  then  add, 
just  before  serving,  one  tablespoon  Sherry  wine.  Pour  in  a 
daep  dish  and  garnish  with  toast  or  poff-paste  points. 


176  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Washington  Terrapin 

1  terrapin  /^  cup  chopped  mushrooms 

13^  tablespoons  butter  Salt 

1)^-  tablespoons  floor  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  cup  cream  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 
Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  slowly  the  creanic 
Add  terrapin  moat  with  bones  cut  in  pieces,  entrails  cut 
Bmaller,  liver  separated  in  pieces,  eggs  of  terrapin,  and 
mushrooms.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Just  before 
serving,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  two  tablespoons  Sherrj' 
wine. 

WAYS   OF  USING  REMNANTS   OF   COOKED  FISH 

Fish  k  la  Crime 

1%  cups  cold  flaked  fish  Sprig  of  parsley 

(cod,  haddock,  halibut,  or  ^  slice  onion 

cusk)  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  White  Sauce  I  ^  cup  buttered  cracker 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  crumbs 

Scald  milk,  for  the  making  of  White  Sauce,  with  bay  leaf, 
parsley,  and  onion.  Cover  the  bottom  of  small  buttered 
platter  with  one-half  of  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  pour  over  one-half  the  sauce ;  repeat.  Cover  with 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 
Fish  a  la  creme,  baked  in  scallop  shells,  makes  an  attractive 
luncheon  dish,   or  may   be    served   for    a    fish    course    at 

dinner. 

Turban  ot  Fish 

2)4  cups  cold  flaked  fish  (cod,  %  cup  butter 

haddock,  halibut,  or  cusk)  )^  cup  flour 

1  }^  cups  milk  }4  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  onion  3^  teaspoon  pepper 

Blade  of  mace      ,  Lemon  juice 

Sprig  of  parsley  Yolks  2  eggs 
^  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Scald  milk  with  onion,  mace,  and  parsley ;  remove  season- 
ings. Melt  butter,  add  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  gradually  the 
milk ;  then  add  eggs,  slightly  be&tcrn.    Put  s  layer  of  fisb  on 


WAYS  OF   USING  REMNANTS  OF  COOKED  FISH      177 

buttered  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  few- 
drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cover  with  sauce,  continuing  until 
fish  and  sauce  are  used,  shaping  in  pyramid  form.  Cover 
with  crumbs,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Fish  Hash 
Take  equal  parts  of  cold  flaked  fish  and  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes finely  chopped.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Try  out 
fat  salt  pork,  remove  scraps,  leaving  enough  fat  in  pan  to 
moisten  fish  and  potatoes.  Put  in  fish  and  potatoes,  stir 
until  heated,  then  cook  until  well  browned  underneath;  fold, 
and  turn  like  an  omelet. 

Pish  Croquettes 

To  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  flaked  halibut  or  salmon  add 
one  cup  thick  White  Sance.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Shape,  roll  in  crumbs,  egg,  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat ;  drain,  arrange  on  hot  dish  for 
serving,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  If  salmon  is  used,  add 
lemon  juice  and  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Fish  and  Egg  Croquettes 

Make  same  as  Fish  Croquettes,  using  one  cup  fish  and 
three  '*  hard-boiled  "  eggs  finely  chopped. 

Scalloped  Cod 
Line  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  cold  flaked  cod,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  a  layer  of  oysters  (first 
dipped  in  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  onion  juice,  lemon 
juice,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs),  add  three  tablespoons  oyster  liquor ;  repeat,  and 
cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
in  hot  oven.     Serve  with  Egg  or  Hollandaise  Sauce  I. 

Salmon  Box 

Line  a  bread  pan,  slightly  buttered,  with  warm  steamed 
rice.  Fill  the  centre  with  cold  boiled  salmon,  flaked,  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg. 
Cover  with  rice  and  steam  one  hour.  Turn  on  a  hot  plattei- 
for  serving,  and  pour  around  Egg  Sauce  II. 


178  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


WAYS  OF  COOKING  SALT  FISH 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish 

Pick  salt  codfish  in  pieces  (there  should  be  three-fourths 
cup),  and  soak  in  lukewarm  water,  the  time  depending  upon 
hardness  and  saltness  of  the  fish.  Drain,  and  add  one  cup 
White  Sauce  I.  Add  one  beaten  egg  just  before  sending  to 
table.  Garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Creamed 
Codfish  is  better  made  with  cream  slightly  thickened  in  place 
of  White  Sauce. 

Fish  Balls 

1  cup  salt  codfish  1  egg 

2  heaping  cups  potatoes  ^  tablespoon  butter 

}4  teaspoon  pepper 
Wash  fish  in  cold  water,  and  pick  in  very  small  pieces, 
or  cut,  using  scissors.  Wash,  pare,  and  soak  potatoes,  cut- 
ting in  pieces  of  uniform  size  before  measuring.  Cook  fish 
and  potatoes  in  boiling  water  to  cover  until  potatoes  are  soft. 
Drain  thoroughly  through  strainer,  return  to  kettle  in  which 
they  were  cooked,  mash  thoroughly  (being  sure  there  are  no 
lumps  left  in  potato),  add  butter,  egg  well  beaten,  and  pepper. 
Beat  with  a  fork  two  minutes.  Add  salt  if  necessary. 
Take  up  by  spoonfuls,  put  in  frying-basket,  and  fry  one 
minute  in  deep  fat,  allowing  six  fish  balls  for  each  frying ; 
drain  on  brown  paper.     Reheat  the  fat  after  each  frying. 

Salted  Codfish  Hash 

Prepare  as  for  Fish  Balls,  omitting  egg.  Try  out  fat  salt 
pork,  remove  scraps,  leaving  enough  fat  in  pan  to  moisten 
fish  and  potatoes.  Put  in  fish  and  potatoes,  stir  until  heated, 
then  cook  until  well  browned  underneath ;  fold,  and  turn  like 
an  omelet. 

Toasted  Salt  Fish 

Pick  salt  codfish  in  long  thin  strips.  If  very  salt,  it  may 
need  to  be  freshened  by  standing  for  a  short  time  in  luke- 
warm water.  Place  on  a  greased  wire  broiler,  and  broil 
until  brown  on  one  side ;  turn,  and  brown  the  other.  Re- 
move to  platter,  and  spread  with  butter. 


WAYS  OF  COOKING  SALT  FISH  179 

Elippered  Herrings 

Remove  fish  from  can,  and  arrange  on  a  platter  that  may 
be  put  in  the  oven ;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  brush  over  with 
lemon  juice  and  melted  butter,  and  pour  over  the  liquor  left 
in  can.  Heat  thoroughly,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and 
slices  of  lemon. 

Baked  Finnan  Haddie 
Put  fish  in  dripping-pan,  surround  with  milk  and  water  in 
equal  proportions,  place  on  back  of  range,  where  it  will  heat 
slowly.      Let   stand   twenty-five   minutes;   pour  off  liquid, 
spread  with  butter,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

Broiled  Finnan  Haddie 

Broil  in  a  greased  broiler  until  brown  on  both  sides. 
Remove  to  a  pan,  and  cover  with  hot  water ;  let  stand  ten 
minutes,  drain,  and  place  on  a  platter.  Spread  with  butter, 
and  sprinkle  with  pepper. 

Finnan  Haddie  k  la  Delmonico 

Cut  fish  in  strips  (there  should  be  one  cup),  put  in  baking* 
pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  place  on  back  of  range  and 
allow  water  to  heat  to  boiling-point;  let  stand  on  range, 
keeping  water  below  boiling-point  for  twenty-five  minutes, 
drain,  and  rinse  thoroughly.  Separate  fish  into  flakes,  add 
one-half  cup  heavy  cream  and  four  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  thinly 
sliced.  Season  with  cayenne,  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  and 
sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

WAYS  OF  COOKING  SHELLFISH 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell 
Serve  oysters  on  deep  halves  of  the  shells,  allowing  six 
to  each  person.     Arrange  on  plates  of  crushed  ice,  with  one- 
fourth  of  a  lemon  in  the  centre  of  each  plate. 

Raw  Oysters 
Raw  oysters  are  served  on  oyster  plates,  or  in  a  block  of 
ice.     Place  block  of  ice  on  a  folded  napkin  on  platter,  ana 


180  BOSTON  COOKDTG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

garnish  the  base  with  parsley  and  quarters  of   lemon,  or 
ferns  and  lemon. 

To  Block  Ice  for  Oysters.  Use  a  rectangular  piece  of 
clear  ice,  and  with  hot  flatirons  melt  a  cavity  large  enough 
to  hold  the  oysters.  Pour  water  from  cavity  as  rapidly  as  it 
forms. 

Oyster  Cocktail  I 

8  small  f  aw  oysters  2  drops  Tabasco 

1  tablespoon  tomato  catsup  Salt 

^  tablespoon  vinegar  or  lemon        1  teaspoon  celery,  finely 
juice  chopped 

%  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 

Mix  ingredients,  chill  thoroughly,  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses,  or  cases  made  from  green  peppers  placed  on  a  bed 
of  crushed  ice. 

Oyster  Cocktail  11 

6  small  raw  oysters  Lemon  juice 

Tabasco  Sauce  Salt 

Grape  fruit 

Cut  grape  fruit  in  halves  crosswise,  remove  tough  portions, 
and  add  oysters  seasoned  with  Tabasco,  lemon  juice,  and 
salt. 

Oyster  Cocktail  IH 

Allow  seven  Blue  Point  oysters  to  each  person,  and  season 
with  three-fourth  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one-half  tablespoon 
tomato  catsup,  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot,  three 
drops  Tabasco  sauce,  few  gratings  horseradish  root,  and  salt 
to  taste.  Chill  thoroughly  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses. 
Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  celery  and  garnish  with  small 
pieces  of  red  and  green  pepper. 

,  Roasted  Oysters 

Oysters  for  roasting  should  be  bought  in  the  shell.  Wash 
thoroughly,  scrubbing  with  a  brush.  Put  in  a  dripping-pan, 
and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  until  shells  part.  Open,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  in  the  deep  halves  of  the 
shells. 


WAYS   OF  COOKING   SHELLFISH  181 

Oysters  k  la  Ballard 

Arrange  oysters  on  the  half  shell  in  a  dripping-pan,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  edges  curl.  Allow  six  to  each  serve, 
pouring  over  the  following  sauce : 

Mix  three-fourths  tablespoon  melted  butter,  three-fourths 
teaspoon  each  lemon  juice  and  Sauterne,  few  drops  Tabasco, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  salt  and 
paprika  to  taste.  Before  putting  ingredients  in  bowl,  rub 
inside  of  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic. 

Panned  Oysters 

Clean  one  pint  large  oysters.  Place  in  dripping-pan 
small  oblong  pieces  of  toast,  put  an  oyster  on  each  piece, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  until  oysters  are 
plump.     Serve  with  Lemon  Butter. 

Lemon  Butter.  Cream  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  a  few 
grains  cayenne. 

Fancy  Roast 

Clean  one  pint  oysters  and  drain  from  their  liquor.  Put 
in  a  stewpan  and  cook  until  oysters  are  plump  and  edge? 
begin  to  curl.  Shake  pan  to  prevent  oysters  from  adhering 
to  pan,  or  stir  with  a  fork.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
two  tablespoons  butter,  and  pour  over  four  small  slices  of 
toast.     Garnish  with  toast  points  and  parsley. 

Oyster  Fricassee 

1  pint  oysters  ^  teaspoon  salt 
Milk  or  cream  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

2  tablespoons  flour  parsley  • 

legg 

Clean  oysters,  heat  oyster  liquor  to  boiling-point,  and 
strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth ;  add  oysters 
to  liquor  and  cook  until  plump.  Remove  oysters  with 
skimmer  and  add  enough  cream  to  liquor  to  make  a  cupful. 
Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  hot  liquid ; 
add  salt,  cayenne,  parsley,  oysters,  and  egg  slightly  beaten. 


182  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Creamed  Oysters 

1  pint  oysters  \}4  cups  White  Sauce  II 

%  teaspoon  celery  salt 

Clean,  and  cook  oysters  until  plump  and  edges  begin  to 
curl ;  drain,  and  add  to  White  Sauce  seasoned  with  celery 
salt.  Serve  on  toast,  in  timbale  cases,  patty  shells,  or  vol- 
au-vents.  One-fourth  cup  sliced  mushrooms  are  often 
added  to  Creamed  Oysters. 

Oysters  in  Brown  Sauce 

1  pint  oysters  %  ^^P  "^i^^ 

1^  cup  butter  }4  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  anchovy  sauce 

1  cup  oyster  liquor  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Parboil  and  drain  oysters,  reserve  liquor,  heat,  strain, 
and  set  aside  for  sauce.  Brown  butter,  add  flour,  and  stir 
until  well  browned;  then  add  oyster  liquor,  milk,  season- 
ings, and  oysters.     For  filling  patty  cases  or  vol-au-vents. 

Savory  Oysters 
1  pint  of  oysters  %  cup  Brown  Stock 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 

4  tablespoons  flour  Few  drops  onion  juice 

1  cup  oyster  liquor  Salt 

Pepper 

Clean  oysters,  parboil,  and  drain.  Melt  butter,  add  flour, 
and  stir  until  well  browned.  Pour  on  gradually,  while  stir- 
ring constantly,  oyster  liquor  and  stock.  Add  seasonings 
and  oysters.  Serve  on  toast,  in  timbale  cases,  patty  shells, 
or  vol-au-vents. 

Oysters  k  la  Aster 

t  pint  oysters  1}4.  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  1%  teaspoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot         1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  tablespoon  finely  cut  red  pepper  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  flour  %  teaspoon  beef  extract 

Salt  and  paprika 

Wash  and  pick  over  oysters,  parboil,  drain,  and  to  liquor 
add  enough  water  to  make   one   cup  liquid;  then   strain 


WAYS   OF   COOKING  SHELLFISH  183 

through  cheese-cloth.  Cook  butter,  shallot,  and  pepper 
three  minutes,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  oyster  liquor.  Add  seasonings  and  oysters. 
Remove  oysters  to  small  pieces  of  bread  sauted  in  butter  on 
one  side.  Pour  sauce  over  oysters  and  garnish  with  thin 
slices  of  cucumber  pickles. 

Broiled  Oysters 
1  pint  selected  oysters  ^  cup  melted  butter 

%  cup  seasoned  cracker  crumbs 
Clean  oysters  and  dry  between  towels.  Lift  with  plated 
fork  by  the  tough  muscle  and  dip  in  butter,  then  in  cracker 
crumbs  which  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Place  in  a  buttered  wire  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire 
until  juices  flow,  turning  while  broiling.  Serve  with  or  with- 
out Maltre  d'H6tel  Butter. 

Oyster  Toast 
Serve  Broiled   Oysters  on  small   pieces  of  Milk  Toast. 
Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  celery. 

Oysters  and  Macaroni 

1  pint  oysters  Salt  and  pepper 

^  cup  macaroni  broken  in         Flour 

1  inch  pieces  y^  cup  buttered  crumbs 

J^  cup  butter 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft;  drain, 
and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Put  a  layer  in  bottom  of  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish,  cover  with  oysters,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  dot  over  with  one-half  of 
the  butter;  repeat,  and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

1  pint  oysters  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 
4  tablespoons  oyster  liquor        %  cup  melted  butter 

2  tablespoons  milk  or  cream      Salt 
)£  cup  stale  bread  crumbs         Pepper 

Mix  bread  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  stir  in  butter.  Put  a 
thin  layer  in  bottom  of  a  buttered  shallow  baking-dish,  cover 
with  oysters,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  one- 


184  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

half  each  oyster  liquor  and  cream.  Repeat,  and  cover  top 
with  remaining  crumbs.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
Never  allow  more  than  two  layers  of  oysters  for  Scalloped 
Oysters ;  if  three  layers  are  used,  the  middle  layer  will  be 
underdone,  while  others  are  properly  cooked.  A  sprinkling 
of  mace  or  grated  nutmeg  to  each  layer  is  considered  by  many 
an  improvement.  Sherry  wine  may  be  used  in  place  of  cream. 
Sauted  Oysters 
Clean  one  pint  oysters,  sprinkle  on  both  sides  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Take  up  by  the  tough  muscle  with  plated  fork 
and  dip  in  seasoned  cracker  crumbs.  Put  two  tablespoons 
butter  in  hot  frying-pan,  add  oysters,  brown  on  one  side, 
then  turn  and  brown  on  the  other. 

Oysters  "writh  Bacon 
Clean  oysters,  wrap  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  around  each,  and 
fasten  with  small  wooden  skewers.  Put  in  a  broiler,  place 
broiler  over  dripping-pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  bacon 
is  crisp  and  brown,  turning  broiler  once  during  the  cooking. 
Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Fried  Oysters 
Clean,  and  dry  between  towels,  selected  oysters.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  cracker  or  stale 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve  with  or  without  Sauce  Tyrolienne. 

Pried  Oysters  in  Batter 
Clean,  and  dry  between  towels,  selected  oysters.     Dip  in 
batter,  fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin ; 
garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley.     Oysters  may  be  parboiled, 
drained,  and  then  fried. 

Batter 
2  eggs  -  3^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  bread  flour 

^  cup  milk 

Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Add  milk 
slowly  to  flour,  stir  until  smooth  and  well  mixed.  Combine 
mixtures. 


WAYS  OF  COOKING  SHELLFISH  185 

Pried  Oysters.     Philadelphia  Relish 

Follow  directions  for  Fried  Oysters.     Serve  with 
Philadelphia  Relish. 

2  cups  cabbage,  finely  shredded    )^  teaspoon  mustard  seed 
2  green  peppers,  finely  chopped     %^  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

^  cup  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Little  Neck  Clams  are  served  raw  on  the  half  shell,  in 
same  manner  as  raw  oysters. 

Steamed  Clams 

Clams  for  steaming  should  be  bought  in  the  shell  and 
always  be  alive.  Wash  clams  thoroughly,  scrubbing  with  a 
brush,  changing  the  water  several  times.  Put  into  a  large 
kettle,  allowing  one-half  cup  hot  water  to  four  quarts  clams ; 
cover  closely,  and  steam  until  shells  partially  open,  care 
being  taken  that  they  are  not  overdone.  Serve  with  indi- 
vidual dishes  of  melted  butter.  Some  prefer  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar  added  to  the  butter.  If  a  small  quan- 
tity of  boiling  water  is  put  into  the  dishes,  the  melted  butter 
will  float  on  top  and  remain  hot  much  longer. 

Roasted  Clams 
Roasted  clams  are  served  at  Clam  Bakes.  Clams  are 
washed  in  sea-water,  placed  on  stones  which  have  been  pre- 
viously heated  by  burning  wood  on  them,  ashes  removed, 
and  stones  sprinkled  with  thin  layer  of  seaweed.  Clams 
are  piled  on  stones,  covered  with  seaweed,  and  a  piece  of 
canvas  thrown  over  them  to  retain  the  steam. 

Clams,  Union  League 
Fry  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot  in  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  five  minutes ;  add  eighteen 
clams  and  one-half  cup  white  wine.  Cook  until  the  shells 
open.  Remove  clams  from  shells  and  reduce  liquor  to  one- 
third  cupful.    Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table* 


186  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

spoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  clam  liquor  ;  add 
one-fourth  cup  cream  and  the  clams,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Refill  clam-shells,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley, 
and  serve  on  each  a  square  piece  of  fried  bacon. 

Clams  k  la  Grand  Union 

Clean  and  dry  selected  clams,  dip  in  batter,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  on  small  slices  of 
cream  toast,  seasoned  with  salt,  celery  salt^  pepper,  and 
cayenne. 

Batter.  Mix  and  sift  one  cup  bread  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Add  gradually  two- 
thirds  cup  milk,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Fried  Scallops 

Clean  one  quart  scallops,  drain,  and  dry  between  towels. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and 
fry  two  minutes  in  deep  fat ;  then  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Plain  Lobster 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell,  arrange  on  platter,  and 
garnish  with  small  claws.  If  two  lobsters  are  opened,  stand 
tail  shells  (put  together)  in  centre  of  platter,  and  arrange 
meat  around  them. 

Lobster  Cocktail 
Allow  one-fourth  cup  lobster  meat,  cut  in  pieces,  for  each 
cocktail,  and  season  with  two  tablespoons,  each,  tomato  cat- 
sup and  Sherry  wine,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  six  drops 
Tabasco  Sauce,  one-eighth  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Chill  thoroughly,  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses. 

Pried  Lobster 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell.  Use  tail  meat,  divided  in 
fourths,  and  large  pieces  of  claw  meat.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon  juice ;  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  again  in 
crumbs  j  fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  serve  with  Sauce  Tartare. 


rtWV--"'"'» — ' ™- -, m.^. m^ .....  .11    .  >By-..,..^ 

I     111  '     %"■       ill 


Clams  Union  Leagtte.  —  Pape  185. 


Oysters  a  la  Ballard.  —  Page  181, 


w 


Lobster  Cocktail.  —  Page  186. 


F«uiT  Cocktail.  —  Paqe  669. 


WAYS  OP  COOKING  SHELLFISH  187 

Buttered  Lobster 

2  lb.  lobster  Salt  and  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  Lemon  juice 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  chop  slightly.  Melt 
butter,  add  lobster,  and  when  heated,  season  and  serve 
garnished  with  lobster  claws. 

Scalloped  Lobster 

2  lb.  lobster  %  teaspoon  salt 

\%  cups  White  Sauce  II  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  cut  in  cubes.  Heat 
in  White  Sauce  and  add  seasonings.  Refill  lobster  shells, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown.  To  prevent  lobster  shells  from  curling  over  lobster 
while  baking,  insert  small  wooden  skewers  of  sufficient  length 
to  keep  shell  in  its  original  shape.  To  assist  in  preserving 
color  of  shell,  brush  over  with  olive  oil  before  putting  into 
oven.  Scalloped  lobster  may  be  baked  in  buttered  scallop 
shells,  or  in  a  buttered  baking- dish. 

Devilled  Lobster 

Scalloped  lobster  highly  seasoned  is  served  as  Devilled 
Lobster.  Use  larger  proportions  of  same  seasonings,  with 
the  addition  of  mustard. 

Curried  Lobster 
Prepare  as  Scalloped  Lobster,  adding  to  flour  one-haif 
teaspoon  curry  powder  when  making  White  Sauce. 

Lobster  Farci 

1  cup  chopped  lobster  meat  Slight  gi-ating  nutmeg 

Yolks  2  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  >^  cup  buttered  crumbs 

}^  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  Salt 

1  cup  White  Sauce  I  Pepper 

To  lobster  meat  add  yolks  of  eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste, 
parsley,  sauce,  and  seasonings  to  taste.  Fill  lobster  shells, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 


188  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Lobster  and  Oyster  Filling 
(^For  Patties  or  Vol-au-Vent) 

1  pint  oysters  3^  cup  butter 

1}^  lb.  lobster  %  cup  flour 

1)^  cups  cold  water  ^  cup  cream 

1  stalk  celery  Worcestershire  Sauce 

1  slice  onion  Lemon  juice  ^ 

Salt  Paprika 

Clean  and  parboil  oysters ;  drain,  and  add  to  liquor  body 
bones  and  tough  claw  meat  from  lobster,  water,  celery,  and 
onion.  Cook  slowly  until  stock  is  reduced  'to  one  cup, 
and  strain.  Make  sauoe  of  butter,  flour,  strained  stock, 
and  cream.  Add  oysters  and  lobster  meat  cut  in  strips; 
then  add  seasonings.  One-half  teaspoon  beef  extract  is  an 
improvement  to  this  dish. 

Fricassee  of  Lobster  and  Mushrooms 

2  lb-  lobster  }^  cup  flour 

^  cup  butter  1  ^^  cups  milk 

^  lb.  mushrooms  Salt 

Few  drops  onion  juice  Paprika 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  cut  in  strips .  Cook 
butter  with  mushrooms  broken  in  pieces  and  onion  ju^ce 
three  minutes  ;  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  milk.  Add 
lobster  meat,  season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and,  as  soon  as 
lobster  is  heated,  add  wine.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  and 
garnish  with  puff  paste  or  toast  points  and  parsley. 

Lobster  and  Oyster  Ragout 

1^  cup  butter  .  Few  grains  cayenne 

1^  cup  flour  Few  drops  onion  juice. 

%  cup  oyster  liquor  1  pint  oysters  parboiled 

^  cup  cream  *  ^  cup  lobster  dice 

^  teaspoon  salt  1}4  tablespoons  Sauterne 

1^  teaspoon  pepper  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

Make  a  sauce  of  first  eight  ingredients.  Add  oysters, 
lobster  dice,  wine,  and  parsley. 


WAYS  OF  COOKING  SHELLFISH  189 

Stuffed  Lobster  k  la  Bechamel 

2  lb.  lobster  Few  grains  cayenne 
11^  cups  milk  Slight  grating  nutmeg 
Bit  of  bay  leaf  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
3  tablespoons  flour  Yolks  2  eggs 

1^  teaspoon  salt  3^  cup  buttered  crumbs 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  cut  in  dice.  Scald 
milk  with  bay  leaf,  remove  bay  leaf  and  make  a  white 
sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  milk ;  add  salt,  cayenne,  nutmeg, 
parsley,  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  lemon  juice. 
Add  lobster  dice,  refill  shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.  One-half  chicken  stock 
and  one-half  cream  may  be  used  for  sauce  if  a  richer  dish  is 
desired. 

Broiled  Live  Lobster 

Live  lobsters  may  be  dressed  for  broiling  at  market,  or 
may  be  done  at  home.  Clean  lobster  and  place  in  a  buttered 
wire  broiler.  Broil  eight  minutes  on  flesh  side,  turn  and 
broil  six  minutes  on  shell  side.  Serve  with  melted  butter. 
Lobsters  taste  nearly  the  same  when  placed  in  dripping-pan 
and  baked  fifteen  minutes  in  hot  oven,  and  are  much  easier 
cooked. 

To  Split  a  Live  Lobster.  Cross  large  claws  and  hold  firmly 
with  left  hand.  With  sharp-pointed  knife,  held  in  right 
hand,  begin  at  the  mouth  and  make  a  deep  incision,  and, 
with  a  sharp  cut,  draw  the  knife  quickly  through  body  and 
entire  length  of  tail.  Open  lobster,  remove  intestinal  vein, 
liver,  and  stomach,  and  crack  claw  shelle  with  a  mallet. 

Baked  Live  Lobster.  Devilled  Sauce. 
Prepare  lobster  same  as  for  Broiled  Live  Lobster  and 
place  in  a  dripping-pan.  Cook  liver  of  lobster  with  one 
tablespoon  butter  three  minutes.  Season  highly  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  Worcestershire  Sauce.  Spread  over  lobster, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to  platter 
and  serve  at  once,  allowing  over  one  and  one-half  pound 
lobster  to  each  person. 


190  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Live  Lobster  en  Brochette 

Split  a  live  lobster,  remove  meat  from  tail  and  large 
claws,  cut  in  pieces,  and  arrange  on  skewers,  alternating 
pieces  with  small  slices  of  bacon.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and 
drain.  Cook  liver  of  lobster  with  one  tablespoon  butter 
three  minutes,  season  highly  with  mustard  and  cayenne,  and 
serve  with  lobster. 

Lobster  k  rAmferioaine 

Split  a  live  lobster  and  put  in  a  large  omelet  pan,  sprinkle 
with  one-fourth  onion  finely  chopped  and  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  one-half  cup  Tomato 
Sauce  II  and  cook  three  minutes ;  then  add  two  tablespoons 
Sherry  wine,  cover,  and  cook  in  oven  seven  minutes.  To 
the  liver  add  one  tablespoon  wine,  two  tablespoons  Tomato 
Sauce,  and  one-half  tablespoon  melted  butter ;  heat  in  pan 
after  lobster  has  been  removed.  As  soon  as  sauce  is  heated, 
strain,  and  pour  over  lobster. 

Lobster  i  la  Muisset 

Cut  two  one  and  one-half  pound  live  lobsters  in  pieces  for 
serving,  remove  intestinal  vein  and  lady,  and  crack  large 
claws.  Cook  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  shallot  and 
three  tablespoons  chopped  carrot  in  two  tablespoons  butter 
ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly  that  carrots  may  not  burn. 
Add  two  sprigs  thyme,  one-half  bay  leaf,  two  red  peppers 
from  pepper  sauce,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-third 
cups  Brown  Stock,  two-thirds  cup  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes,  and  three  tablespoons  Sherry  wine.  Add  lobster 
and  cock  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  lobster  to  serving  dish, 
thicken  sauce  with  four  tablespoons,  each,  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together,  and  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
brandy.  Pour  sauce  around  lobster,  and  sprinkle  all  with 
finely  chopped  chives. 


B££V  191 


CHAPTER  Xn 

BEEF 

MEAT  is  the  name  applied  to  the  flesh  of  all  animals 
used  for  food.  Beef  is  the  meat  of  steer,  ox,  or 
cow,  and  is  the  most  nutritious  and  largely  consumed  of 
all  animal  foods.  Meat  is  chiefly  composed  of  the  albumi- 
noids (fibrin,  albumen,  gelatin),  fat,  mineral  matter,  and 
water. 

Fibrin  is  that  substance  in  blood  which  causes  it  to 
coagulate  when  shed.  It  consists  of  innumerable  delicate 
fibrils  which  entangle  the  blood  corpuscles,  and  form  with 
them  a  mass  called  blood  clot.  Fibrin  is  insoluble  in  both 
cold  and  hot  water. 

Albumen  is  a  substance  found  in  the  blood  and  muscle. 
It  is  soluble  in  cold  water,  and  is  coagulated  by  hot  water 
or  heat.  It  begins  to  coagulate  at  134°  F.  and  becomes 
solid  at  160°  F.  Here  lies  the  necessity  of  cooking  meat 
in  hot  water  at  a  low  temperature;  of  broiling  meat  at  a 
high  temperature,  to  quickly  sear  surface. 

Gelatin  in  its  raw  state  is  termed  collagen.  It  is  a 
transparent,  tasteless  substance,  obtained  by  boiling  with 
water,  muscle,  skin,  cartilage,  bone,  tendon,  ligament,  or 
inembrane  of  animals.  By  this  process,  collagen  of  con- 
nective tissues  is  dissolved  and  converted  into  gelatin. 
Gelatin  is  insoluble  in  cold  water,  soluble  in  hot  water, 
but  in  boiling  water  is  decomposed,  and  by  much  boiling 
will  not  solidify  on  cooling.  When  subjected  to  cold  water 
it  swells,  and  is  called  hydrated  gelatin.  Myosin  is  the 
albuminoid  of  muscle,  collagen  of  tendons,  ossein  of  bones, 
and  chondrin  of  cartilage  and  gristle. 

Gelatin,  although  highly  nitrogenous,  does  not  act  in  the 
system  as  other  nitrogenous  foods,  as  a  large  quantity  passes 
out  unchanged. 


192  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Fat  is  the  white  or  yellowish  oily  solid  substance  forming 
the  chief  part  of  the  adipose  tissue.  Pat  is  found  in  thick 
layers  directly  under  the  skin,  in  other  parts  of  the  body,  i^ 
bone,  and  is  intermingled  throughout  the  flesh.  Fat  as 
food  is  a  great  heat-giver  and  force-producer.  Suet  is  the 
name  given  to  fat  which  lies  about  the  loins  and  kidneys. 
Beef  suet  tried  out  and  clarified  is  much  used  in  cookery 
for  shortening  and  frying. 

Mineral  Matter.  The  largest  amount  of  mineral  matter 
is  found  in  bone.  It  is  principally  calcium  phosphate 
(phosphate  of  lime).  Sodium  chloride  (common  salt)  is 
found  in  the  blood  and  throughout  the  tissues. 

"Water  abounds  in  all  animals,  constituting  a  large  per- 
centage of  their  weight. 

The  color  of  meat  is  due  to  the  coloring  matter  (haemo- 
globin) which  abounds  in  the  red  corpuscles  of  the  blood. 

The  distinctive  flavor  of  meat  is  principally  due  to 
peptones  and  allied  substances,  and  is  intensified  by  the 
presence  of  sodium  chloride  and  other  salts. 

The  beef  creature  is  divided  by  splitting  through  the  back- 
bone in  two  parts,  each  part  being  called  a  side  of  beef. 
Four  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  is  good  market  weight  for 
a  side  of  beef. 

The  most  expensive  cuts  come  from  that  part  of  the 
creature  where  muscles  are  but  little  used,  which  makes  the 
meat  finer-grained  and  consequently  more  tender,  taking 
less  time  for  cooking.  Many  of  the  cheapest  cuts,  though 
equally  nutritious,  need  long,  slow  cooking  to  render  them 
tender  enough  to  digest  easily.  Tough  meat  which  has 
long  and  coarse  fibres  is  often  found  to  be  very  juicy,  on 
account  of  the  greater  motion  of  that  part  of  the  creature, 
which  causes  the  juices  to  flow  freely.  Roasting  and  broil- 
ing, which  develop  so  fine  a  flavor,  can  only  be  applied  to 
the  more  expensive  cuts.  The  liver,  kidneys,  and  heart 
are  of  firm,  close  texture,  and  diflScult  of  digestion.  Tripe, 
which  is  the  first  stomach  of  the  ox,  is  easy  of  digestion, 
but  on  account  of  the  large  amount  of  fat  which  it  contains, 
it  is  undesirable  for  those  of  weak  digestion. 

The  quality  of  beef  depends  on  age  of  the  creature  and 


BEEF 


193 


manner  of  feeding.  The  best  beef  is  obtained  from  a  steer 
of  four  or  five  years.  Good  beef  should  be  firm  and  of 
fine-grained  texture,  bright  red  in  color,  and  well  mottled 
and  coated  with  fat.  The  fat  should  be  firm  and  of  a  yel- 
lowish color.  Suet  should  be  dry,  and  crumble  easily.  Beef 
should  not  be  eaten  as  soon  as  killed,  but  allowed  to  hang 
and  ripen,  —  from  two  to  three  weeks  in  winter,  and  two 
weeks  in  summer. 

Meat  should  be  removed  from  paper  as  soon  as  it  comes 
from  market,  otherwise  paper  absorbs  some  of  the  juices. 

Meat  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place.  In  winter,  beef  may 
be  bought  in  large  quantities  and  cut  as  needed.  If  one 
chooses,  a  loin  or  rump  may  be  bought  and  kept  by  the 
butcher,  who  sends  cuts  as  ordered. 

Always  wipe  beef,  before  cooking,  with  a  cheese-cloth 
wrung  out  of  cold  water,  but  never  allow  it  to  stand  in  a 
pan  of  cold  water,  as  juices  will  be  drawn  out. 


DIVISION  AND  WAYS  OF  COOKING  A  SIDE  OF  BEEF 

HIND-QUARTER 


Divisions 
Flank  (thick  and  boneless)  . 


Ways  of  Cooking 
o     Stuffed,  rolled  and  braised, 
or  corned  and  boiled 
Aitchbone      .     .     .     Cheap  roast,  beef  stew,  or 
braised 

Top Steaks,  best  cuts  for  beef 

tea 
Lower  Part    .     .     .     Hamburg  steaks,  curry  ox 
beef,  and  cecils 

Vein Steaks 

'Back Choicest  large  roasts  and 

cross-cut  steaks 
Middle       ....     Roasts 
Face      .....     Inferior  roasts  and  stews 

^Tip Extra  fine  roasts 

Middle       ....     Sirloin     and     porterhouse 

steaks 
First  Cut   ....     Steaks  and  roast 
^,     ^     ,    ,  .    f Sold  as  a  Fillet^  Larded    and    roasted,    or 

The  Tenderloinj^^  ^^^  ^^  g^^^^j  broiled 

Hind-shin.      .     c     .     ,     ^    ^     »     .     .     Cheap  stew  (W  soup  stock 


Round 


Rump. 


Loin 


194  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

FORE-<iUARTER 
Divisions  Ways  op  Cooking 

Five  Prime  Ribs     .     , Good  roast 

Five  Chuck  Ribs Small  steaks  and  stews 

Neck Hamburg  steaks 

Sticking-piece .     Mincemeat 

r  Thick  End  ^ 
Rattle  Rand       J  Second  Cut  I  .     .     .     Corned  for  boiling 

[Thin  End   J 

r  Navel  End       ^ 
Brisket     .     .    J  Butt  End  or     I  .     .     Finest  pieces  for  corning 

I  Fancy  Brisket  J 
Fore-shin Soup  stock  and  stews 

Other  Parts  of  Beef  Creature  used  for  Foocl 

Brains  .......  Stewed,  scalloped  dishes,  or  croquettes 

Tongue Boiled  or  braised,  fresh  or  corned 

Heart Stuffed  and  braised 

Liver Broiled  or  fried 

Kidneys Stewed  or  sauted 

Tail Soup 

Suet  (kidney  suet  is  the  best) 

Tripe Lyonnaise,  broiled,  or  fried  in  batter 

The  Effect   of  Different  Temperatures   on  the 
Cooking  of  Meat 

By  putting  meat  in  cold  water  and  allowing  water  to  heat 
gradually,  a  large  amount  of  juice  is  extracted  and  meat  is 
tasteless;  and  by  long  cooking  the  connective  tissues  aie 
softened  and  dissolved,  which  gives  to  the  stock  when  cold  a 
jelly-like  consistency.    This  principle  applies  to  soup-making. 

By  putting  meat  in  boiling  water,  allowing  the  water  to 
boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  lowering  the  temperature, 
juices  in  the  outer  surface  are  quickly  coagulated,  and  the 
inner  juices  are  prevented  from  escaping.  This  principle 
applies  where  nutriment  and  flavor  is  desired  in  meat.  Ex- 
amples :  boiled  mutton,  fowl. 

By  putting  in  cold  water,  bringing  quickly  to  the  boiling- 
point,  then  lowering  the  temperature  and  cooking  slowly 
until  meat  is  tender,  some  of  the  goodness  will  be  in  the 
■tock,  but  a  large  portion  left  in  the  meat.  Examples  :  f owl, 
wHiQii  cooked  to  use  for  made-over  dishes,  Scotch  Broth. 


Round  of  Beef.  —  Page  193, 


AiTCH  Bone. 

Tenderloin  of   Beef.     Cut  from   hind  shin   for  Soup-making. 

Page  19S. 


Tip  of  Sirloin.  Five   Prime  Ribs. 

rage  201. 


Rump.  Porter  House  Steak. 

First  slice  from  cross  cut  of  rump. 
rage  tOl. 


BEEF 


195 


TABLE   SHOWING  COMPOSITION   OF  MEATS 


Mineral 

Articles 

Refuse 

Proteid 

Fat 

matter 

Water 

Beef 

Fore-quarter    . 

19.8 

14.1 

16.1 

.7 

49.3 

Hind-qiiarter   .     . 

16.3 

L5.3 

15.6 

.8 

52. 

Kound    .... 

8.5 

18.7 

8.8 

1. 

63. 

Rump     . 

18.5 

14.4 

19. 

.8 

47.3 

Loin  .     . 

12.6 

15.9 

17.3 

.9 

53.3 

Ribs  .     . 

20.2 

13.6 

20.6 

.7 

44.9 

Chuck  ribs 

13.3 

15. 

20.8 

.8 

50.1 

Tongue  . 

15.1 

14.8 

15.3 

.9 

53.9 

Heart     . 

16. 

20.4 

1. 

62.6 

Carbo- 

hydrates 

Kidney   .... 

.4 

1G.9 

4.8 

1.2 

76.7 

Liver      .... 

1.8 

21.6 

5.4 

1.4 

69.8 

MUTTOX 

Hind-quarter  .     . 

16.7 

13.5 

23.5 

.7 

456 

Fore-quarter     .     . 

21.1 

1L9 

25.7 

.7 

40.6 

Leg 

17.4 

15.1 

14.5 

.8 

52.2 

Loin 

14.2 

12.8 

31.9 

.6 

40.5 

Veal 

Fore-quarter    . 

24.5 

14.6 

6. 

.7 

54.2 

Hind-quarter   .     . 

20.7 

1.5.7 

6.6 

.8 

56.2 

Leg    .....     . 

10.5 

18.5 

5. 

1. 

65. 

Sweetbreads     .     . 

15.4 

12.1 

1.6 

70.9 

Pork 

Loin  of  pork    .     . 

IG. 

13.5 

27.5 

.7 

42.3 

Ham,  smoked 

12.7 

14.1 

33.2 

4.1 

35.9 

Salt  pork     .     .     . 

8.1 

6.5 

66.8 

2.7 

15.9 

Bacon     .... 

"8.1 

9.6 

60.2 

4.3 

17.8 

Poultry 

Chicken       .     .     . 

34.8 

14.8 

LI 

.8 

48.5 

Fowl       .... 

30. 

13.4 

10.2 

.8 

45.6 

Turkey  .... 

22.7 

15.7 

18.4 

.8 

42.4 

Goose     . 

. 

22.2 

10.3 

33.8 

.6 

33.1 

W.  0.  Atwater,  Ph.D. 


Broiled  Beefsteak 
The  best  cuts  of  beef  for  broiling  are  porterhouse,  sirloin, 
cross-cut  of  rump  steaks,  and  second  and  third  cuts  from  top 


196  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

of  round.  Porterhouse  and  sirloin  cuts  are  the  most  expen- 
sive, on  account  of  the  great  loss  in  bone  and  fat,  although 
price  per  pound  is  about  the  same  as  for  cross-cut  of  rump. 
Round  steak  is  very  juicy,  but,  having  coarser  fibre,  is  not 
as  tender.  Steaks  should  be  cut  at  least  an  inch  thick,  and 
from  that  to  two  and  one-half  inches.  The  flank  end  of  sir- 
loin steak  should  be  removed  before  cooking.  It  may  be  put 
in  soup  kettle,  or  lean  part  may  be  chopped  and  utilized  for 
meat  cakes,  fat  tried  out  and  clarified  for  shortening. 

To  Broil  Steak.  Wipe  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold 
water,  and  trim  off  superfluous  fat.  With  some  of  the  fat 
grease  a  wire  broiler,  place  meat  in  broiler  (having  fat  edge 
next  to  handle),  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  every  ten 
seconds  for  the  first  minute,  that  surface  may  be  well  seared, 
thus  preventing  escape  of  juices.  After  the  first  minute,  turn 
occasionally  until  well  cooked  on  both  sides.  Steak  cut  one 
and  one-half  inches  thick  will  take  ten  minutes,  if  liked  rare ; 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes,  if  well  done.  Remove  to  hot  platter, 
spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Beefsteak  with  Maitre  d'Hdtel  Butter 
Serve  Broiled  Steak  with  Maitre  d'H6tel  Butter. 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Mushroom  Sauce 
Serve  broiled  Porterhouse  Steak  with  Mushroom  Sauce. 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Tomato  and  Mushroom  Sauce 

Serve  broiled  Porterhouse  Steak  with  Tomato  and  Mush- 
room Sauce. 

Porterhouse  Steak,  Bordelaise  Sauce 

Serve  broiled  porterhouse  steak  with 

Bordelaise  Sauce.  Cook  one  shallot,  finely  chopped, 
with  one-fourth  cup  claret  until  claret  is  reduced  to  two 
tablespoons,  and  strain.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter, 
add  one  slice  onion,  two  slices  carrot,  sprig  of  parsley,  bit 
of  bay  leaf,  eight  peppercorns,  and  one  clove,  and  cook 
until  brown.  Add  three  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour, 
and  when  well  browned  add  gradually  one  cup  Brown  Stock. 


BEEF  197 

Strain,  let  simmer  eight  minutes,  add  claret  and  one  table- 
spoon butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Remove  mar- 
row from  a  marrow-bone  and  cut  in  one-third  inch  slices; 
then  poach  in  boiling  water.  Arrange  on  and  around  steak, 
and  pour  around  sauce. 

Beefsteak  k  la  Henriette 

^  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  3  eggs  2  tablespoons  tomato  purde 

1  tablespoon  cold  water        1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 
}£  tablespoon  lemon  juice     }^  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 
Few  grains  cayenne 

Wash  butter,  and  divide  in  three  pieces.  Put  one  piece 
in  saucepan  with  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  mixed 
with  water  and  lemon  juice.  Proceed  same  as  in  making 
Hollandaise  Sauce  I  (see  p.  274)  ;  then  add  tomato,  parsley, 
and  seasonings.  Pour  one-half  sauce  on  a  serving  dish,  lay 
a  broiled  porterhouse  steak  on  sauce,  and  cover  steak  with, 
remaining  sauce.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Beefsteak  k  la  Victor  Hugo  "  » 

Wipe  a  porterhouse  steak,  broil,  and  serve  with 
Victor  Hugo  Sauce.  Cook  one-half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  shallot  in  one  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar  five 
minutes.  Wash  one-third  cup  butter,  and  divide  in  thirds. 
Add  one  piece  butter  to  mixture,  with  yolks  two  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  one  teaspoon  meat  extract. 
Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly ;  as  soon  as  butter 
is  melted,  add  second  piece,  and  then  third  piece.  When 
mixture  thickens,  add  one-half  tablespoon  grated  horse- 
radish. 

Steak  k  la  Chiron 

Spread  broiled  rump  steak  with  Hollandaise  Sauce  I  (see 
p.  274)  to  which  is  added  a  few  drops  onion  juice  and  one- 
half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Beefsteak  k  la  Mirabeau 
Garnish  a  broiled  porterhouse  or  cross-cut  of  rump  steak 
with  anchovies,  and  stoned  olives  stuffed  with  green  butter 


198  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  chopped  parsley.  Arrange  around  steak  stuffed  toma- 
toes, and  fried  potato  balls  served  in  shells  made  from  noodle 
mixture.  Pour  around  the  following  sauce :  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  browned 
flour,  then  add  one  cup  Chicken  Stock.  Season  with  one 
tablespoon  tomato  catsup  and  salt  and  pepper. 

Noodle  Shells.  Make  noodle  mixture  (see  p.  147),  roll  as 
thinly  as  possible,  cut  in  pieces,  and  shape  over  buttered 
inverted  scallop  shells.  Put  in  dripping-pan  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  As  mixture  bakes  it  curls  from  edges,  when  cases 
should  be  slipped  from  shells  and  pressed  firmly  in  insides  of 
shells  to  finish  cooking  and  leave  an  impression  of  shells. 
Potato  balls  served  in  these  shells  make  an  attractive  garnish 
for  broiled  fish  and  meats. 

Beefsteak  virith  Oyster  Blanket 

"Wipe  a  sirloin  steak,  cut  one  and  one-half  inches  thick, 
broil  five  minutes,  and  remove  to  platter.  Spread  with 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  peppier.  Clean  one  pint 
oysters,  cover  steak  with  same,  sprinkle  oysters  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  dot  over  with  butter.  Place  on  grate  in  hot 
oven,  and  cook  until  oysters  are  plump. 

Planked  Beefsteak 

Wipe,  remove  superfluous  fat,  and  pan  broil  seven  minutes 
a  porterhouse  or  cross-cut  of  the  rump  steak  cut  one  and 
three-fourths  inches  thick.  Butter  a  plank  and  arrange  a 
border  of  Duchess  Potatoes,  using  three  times  the  recipe,  close 
to  edge,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  rose  tube.  Remove  steak  to 
plank,  put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  steak  is  cooked  and 
potatoes  are  browned.  Spread  steak  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  finely  chopped  parsley.  Garnish  top 
of  steak  with  sauted  mushroom  caps,  and  put  around  steak 
at  equal  distances  halves  of  small  tomatoes  sauted  in  butter, 
and  on  top  of  each  tomato  a  circular  slice  of  cucumber. 

Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef 
Slices  cut  from  the  tenderloin  are  called  sliced  fillets  of 
beef.     "Wipe  sliced  fillets,  place  in  greased  broiler,  and  broil 


BEEF  196 

four  or  five  minutes  over  a  clear  fire.    These  may  be  served 
with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  or  Mushroom  Sauce, 

Cutlets  of  Tenderloin  with  Chestnut  Pur§e 
Shape   slices  of  tenderloin,  one  inch   thick,  in   circular 
pieces.     Broil  five  minutes.      Spread  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.     Arrange  on  platter  around  a  mound 
of  Chestnut  Puree. 

Sauted  Mignon  Fillets  of  Beef  with  Sauce  Figaro 

Wipe  and  saute  small  fillets  in  hot  omelet  pan.  Arrange 
in  a  circle  on  platter  with  cock's-comb  shaped  croutons  be- 
tween, and  pour  sauce  in  the  centre.  Serve  as  a  luncheon 
dish  with  Brussels  Sprouts  or  String  Beans. 

Sauted  Mignon  Fillets  of  Beef  with  Sauce  Trianon 
Wipe  and  saute  small  fillets  in  hot  omelet  pan.     Arrange 
in  a  circle  around  a  mound  of  fried  potato  balls  sprinkled 
with  parsley.     Put  Sauce  Trianon  on  each  fillet. 

Sauted  Fillets  of  Beef  k  la  Moelle 

Cut  beef  tenderloin  in  slices  one  inch  thick,  and  trim  into 
circular  shapes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  broil 
six  minutes  in  hot  buttered  frying-pan.  Remove  marrow 
from  a  marrow-bone,  cut  in  one-third  inch  slices,  poach  in 
boiling  water,  and  drain.  Put  a  slice  of  marrow  on  each 
fillet.  To  liquor  in  pan  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  and  one  cup  Brov^n  Stock.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  Madeira  wine.  Pour  sauce  around 
meat. 

Saut6d  Fillets  of  Beef,  Cherry  Sauce 

Prepare  and  cook  six  fillets  same  as  Sauted  Fillets  of 
Beef  k  la  Moelle.  Arrange  on  sei*ving  dish,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  spread  with  butter,  and  pour  over. 

Cherry  Sauce.  Soak  one-fourth  cup  glaced  cherries  fif- 
teen minutes  in  boiling  water.  Drain,  cut  in  halves,  cover 
with  Sherry  wine,  and  let  stand  three  hours. 


200  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Sauted  Fillets  of  Beef  with  Stuffed  Mushroom  Caps 
Prepare  and  cook  six  fillets  same  as  Sauted  Fillets  of 
Beef  k  la  Moelle  omitting  the  marrow.  Put  a  sauted  stuffed 
mushroom  cap  on  each,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs,  and 
bake  until  crumbs  are  browned.  Remove  to  serving  dish, 
pour  around  Espagnole  Sauce,  and  garnish  caps  with  strips 
of  red  and  green  pepper  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Stuffing  for  Mushroom  Caps.  Clean  and  finely  chop  six 
mushroom  caps;  add  one  tablespoon  each  of  parsley  and 
onion  finely  chopped,  and  one  tablespoon  butter.  Moisten 
with  Espagnole  Sauce  (See  p.  200). 

Chateaubriand  of  Beef 

Trim  off  fat  and  skin  from  three  pounds  of  beef  cut  from 
centre  of  fillet  and  flatten  with  a  broad-bladed  cleaver. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  brush  over  with  olive  oil,  and  broil  over 
a  clear  fire  twenty  minutes.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  garnish 
with  red  pepper  cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  parsley.  Serve 
with 

Espagnole  Sauce.  To  one  and  one-half  cups  rich  brown 
sauce  add  two-thirds  teaspoon  meat  extract,  one  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  finely  chopped 
parsley.  Just  before  serving  add  one  tablespoon  butter  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Broiled  Meat  Cakes 

Chop  finely  lean  raw  beef,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
shape  in  small  flat  cakes,  and  broil  in  a  greased  broiler  or 
frying-pan.  Spread  with  butter,  or  serve  with  Maitre 
d'Hotel  Butter.  In  forming  the  cakes,  handle  as  Uttle  as 
possible ;  for  if  pressed  too  compactly,  cakes  will  be  found 
solid. 

Hamburg  Steaks 

Chop  finely  one  pound  lean  raw  beef ;  season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice  or  one-half  shallot 
finely  chopped.  Shape,  cook,  and  serve  as  Meat  Cakes.  A 
few  gratings  of  nutmeg  and  one  egg  slightly  beaten  may  ha 
added. 


Planks  for  Planked  Dishks.  —  Page  IbS. 


Beefsteak  a  la  Mirabeau.  —  Page  197. 


Side  of  Veal  with  Sweetbread  attached. 

Sms   OF  Lamb  showing  divisiok  into  fore   and  hind   quarter. 
Pag0  196. 


BEEF  201 

Cannelon  of  Beef 

2  lbs.  lean  beef,  cut  from  round  j^  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Grated  rind  3^  lemon  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

parsley  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

Chop  meat  finely,  and  add  remaining  ingredients  in  order 
given.  Shape  in  a  roll  six  inches  long,  place  on  rack  in 
dripping-pan,  and  arrange  over  top  slices  fat  salt  pork  and 
bake  thirty  minutes.  Baste  every  five  minutes  with  one- 
fourth  cup  butter  melted  in  one  cup  boiling  water.  Serve 
with  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce  I. 

Roast  Beef 

The  best  cuts  of  beef  for  roasting  are :  tip  or  middle  of 
sirloin,  back  of  rump,  or  first  three  ribs.  Tip  of  sirloin 
roast  is  desirable  for  a  small  family.  Back  of  rump  makes 
a  superior  roast  for  a  large  family,  and  is  more  economical 
than  sirloin.  It  is  especially  desirable  where  a  large  quan- 
tity of  dish  gravy  is  liked,  for  in  carving  the  meat  juices  fol- 
low the  knife.  Rib  roasts  contain  more  fat  than  either  of 
the  others,  and  are  somewhat  cheaper. 

To  Roast  Beef.  Wipe,  put  on  a  rack  in  dripping-pan, 
skin  side  down,  rub  over  with  salt,  and  dredge  meat  and  pan 
with  flour.  Place  in  hot  oven,  that  the  surface  may  be 
quickly  seared,  thus  preventing  escape  of  inner  juices. 
After  flour  in  pan  is  browned,  reduce  heat,  and  baste  with 
fat  which  has  tried  out ;  if  meat  is  quite  lean,  it  may  be  neces- 
sary to  put  trimmings  of  fat  in  pan.  Baste  every  ten  min- 
utes ;  if  this  rule  is  followed,  meat  will  be  found  more  juicy. 
When  meat  is  about  half  done,  turn  it  over  and  dredge  with 
flour,  that  skin  side  may  be  uppermost  for  final  browning. 
For  roasting,  consult  Time  Table  for  Baking  Meats,  page  30. 

If  there  is  danger  of  flour  burning  in  pan,  add  a  small 
quantity  of  water ;  this,  however,  is  not  desirable,  and  seldom 
need  be  done  if  size  of  pan  is  adapted  to  size  of  roast.  Beef 
to  be  well  roasted  should  be  started  in  hot  oven  and  heat 
decreased,  so  that  when  carved  the  slices  will  be  red  through- 
out, with    a  crisp  layer  of  golden  brown  fat  on  the  top. 


202  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Beef  roasted  when  temperature  is  so  high  that  surface  is 
hardened  before  heat  can  penetrate  to  the  centre  is  most 
unsatisfactory. 

Sirloin  or  rib  roasts  may  have  the  bones  removed,  and  be 
rolled,  skewered,  and  tied  in  shape.  Chicago  Butt  is  cut 
from  the  most  tender  part  of  back  of  rump.  They  are 
shipped  from  Chicago,  our  greatest  beef  centre,  and  if  fresh 
and  from  a  heavy  creature,  make  excellent  roasts  at  a  small 
price. 

Roast  Beef  Gravy.  Remove  some  of  the  fat  from  pan, 
leaving  four  tablespoons.  Place  on  front  of  range,  add 
four  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned.  The 
flour,  dredged  and  browned  in  pan,  should  give  additional 
color  to  gravy.  Add  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  boil- 
ing water,  cook  five  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  strain.  If  flour  should  burn  in  pan,  gravy  will  be  full 
of  black  particles. 

To  Carve  a  Roast  of  Beef.  Have  roast  placed  on 
platter  skin  side  up ;  with  a  pointed,  thin-bladed,  sharp  knife 
cut  a  sirloin  or  rib  roast  in  thin  slices  at  right  angles  to  the 
ribs,  and  cut  slices  from  ribs.  If  there  is  tenderloin,  remove 
it  from  under  the  bone,  and  cut  in  thin  slices  across  grain 
of  meat.  Carve  back  of  rump  in  thin  slices  with  the  grain  of 
meat ;  by  so  doing,  some  of  the  least  tender  muscle  will  be 
served  with  that  which  is  tender.  By  cutting  across  grain 
of  meat,  the  tenderest  portion  is  sliced  by  itself,  as  is  the 
less  tender  portion. 

Yorkshire  Pudding 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  flour  1^  teaspoon  salt 

Miss  C.  J.  Wills 
Mix  salt  and  flour,  and  add  milk  gradually  to  form  a 
smooth  paste  ;  then  add  eggs  beaten  until  very  light.  Cover 
bottom  of  hot  pan  with  some  of  beef  fat  tried  out  from 
roast,  pour  mixture  in  pan  one-half  inch  deep.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  hot  oven,  basting  after  well  risen,  with  some  of 
the  fat  from  pan  in  which  meat  is  roasting.  Cut  in  squares 
for  serving.  Bake,  if  preferred,  in  greased,  hissing  hot  iron 
gem  pans. 


BEEF  208 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef 

The  tenderloin  of  beef  which  lies  under  the  loin  and  rump 
is  called  fillet  of  beef.  The  fillet  under  the  loin  is  known 
as  the  long  fillet,  and  when  removed  no  porterhouse  steaks 
can  be  cut ;  therefore  it  commands  a  higher  price  than  the 
short  fillet  lying  under  rump.  Two  short  fillets  are  often 
skewered  together,  and  served  in  place  of  a  long  fillet. 

Wipe,  remove  fat,  veins,  and  any  tendonous  portions; 
skewer  in  shape,  and  lard  upper  side  with  grain  of  meat, 
following  directions  for  larding  on  page  23.  Place  on  a  rack 
in  small  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  put  in  bottom  of  pan  small  pieces  of  pork.  Bake 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven,  basting  three  tim^s. 
Take  out  skewer,  remove  meat  to  hot  platter,  and  garnish 
with  watercress.  Serve  with  Mushroom,  Figaro,  or  Horse- 
radish Sauce  I. 

Fillet  of  Beef  with  Vegetables 
Wipe  a  three-pound  fillet,  trim,  and  remove  fat.  Put  one- 
half  pound  butter  in  hot  frying-pan  and  "w^ien  melted  add 
fillet,  and  turn  frequently  until  the  entire  sufface  is  seared 
and  well  browned;  then  turn  occasionally  until  done,  the 
time  required  being  about  thirty  minutes.  Remove  to 
serving  dish  and  garnish  with  one  cup  each  cooked  peas  and 
carrots  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  both  well  seasoned,  one-half  cup 
raisins  seeded  and  cooked  in  boiling  water  until  soft,  and 
the  caps  from  one-half  pound  fresh  mushrooms  sauted  in 
butter  five  minutes.     Serve  with 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce.  Pour  off  one-fourth  cup  fat 
from  frying-pan,  add  five  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until 
well  browned ;  then  add  one  cup  Brown  Soup  Stock,  one- 
third  cup  mushroom  liquor,  and  the  caps  from  one-half  pound 
mushrooms  cut  in  slices  and  sauted  in  butter  three  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  serving  add 
gradually,  while  stining  constantly,  the  butter  remaining  in 
frying-pan. 

To  obtain  mushroom  liquor,  scrape  stems  of  mushrooms, 
break  in  pieces,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly  until 
liquid  is  reduced  to  one-third  cup. 


204  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Braised  Beef 
3  lbs.  beef  from  lower  Carrot  "^ 

part  of  round  pr  face  Turnip  I  ^  cup  each,  cut 

of  rump  Onion  j  in  dice 

2  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork  Celery  J 

3^  teaspoon  peppercorns  Salt  and  pepper 

Try  out  pork  and  remove  scraps.  Wipe  meat,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  entire 
surface  in  pork  fat.  When  turning  meat,  avoid  piercing 
with  fork  or  skewer,  which  allows  the  inner  juices  to  escape. 
Place  on  trivet  in  deep  granite  pan  or  in  earthen  pudding- 
dish,  and  surround  with  vegetables,  peppercorns,  and  three 
cups  boiling  water;  cover  closely,  and  bake  four  hours  in 
very  slow  oven,  basting  every  half-hour,  and  turning  after 
second  hour.  Throughout  the  cooking,  the  liquid  should  be 
kept  below  the  boiling-point.  Serve  with  Horseradish  Sauce, 
or  with  sauce  made  from  liquor  in  pan. 

Beef  k  la  Mode 

Insert  twelve  large  lardoons  in  a  four-pound  piece  of  beef 
cut  from  the  round.  Make  incisions  for  lardoons  by  running 
through  the  meat  a  large  skewer.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  the  entire  surface  in  pork  fat. 
PuJ  on  a  trivet  in  kettle,  surround  with  one-thu-d  cup  each 
carrot,  turnip,  celery,  and  onion  cut  in  dice,  sprig  of  parsley, 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  and  water  to  half  cover  meat.  Cover  closely, 
and  cook  slowly  four  hours,  keeping  liquor  below  the  boiling- 
point.  Kemove  to  hot  platter.  Strain  liquor,  thicken  and 
season  to  serve  as  a  gravy.  When  beef  is  similarly  prepared 
(with  exception  of  lardoons  and  vegetables),  and  cooked  in 
smaller  amount  of  water,  it  is  called  Smothered  Beef,  or  Pot 
Roast.  A  bean-pot  (covered  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper, 
tied  firmly  down)  is  the  best  utensil  to  use  for  a  Pot  Roast. 

■  Pressed  Beef  Flank 

Wipe,  remove  superfluous  fat,  and  roll  a  flank  of  beef. 
Put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  add  one 
tablespoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns,  a  bit  of  bay 
leaf,  and  a  bone  or  two  which  may  be  at  hand.  Cook 
slowly  until  meat  is  in  shreds;  there  should  be  but  little 


BEEF  205 

liquor  in  kettle  when  meat  is  done.  Arrange  meat  in  a  deep 
pan,  pour  over  liquor,  cover,  and  press  with  a  heavy  weight. 
Serve  cold,  thinly  sliced. 

Beef  Stew^  with  Dumplings 

Aitchbone,  weighing  5  lbs.  %  small  onion,  cut  in  thin 
4  cups  potatoes,  cut  in  ^^  inch  slices 

slices  ^  cup  flour 

Turnip  \  %  cup  each,  cut  in  Salt 

Carrot  \  half-inch  cubes  Pepper 

Wipe  meat,  remove  from  bone,  cut  in  one  and  one-half 
inch  cubes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Cut  some  of  the  fat  in  small  pieces  and  try  out  in 
frying-pan.  Add  meat  and  stir  constantly,  that  the  surface 
may  be  quickly  seared;  when  well  browned,  put  in  kettle, 
and  rinse  frying-pan  with  boiling  water,  that  none  of  the 
goodness  may  be  lost.  Add  to  meat  remaining  fat,  and 
bone  sawed  in  pieces  ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  five 
minutes,  then  cook  at  a  lower  temperature  until  meat  is  ten- 
der (time  required  being  about  three  hours).  Add  carrot, 
turnip,  and  onion,  with  salt  and  pepper  the  last  hour  of 
cooking.  Parboil  potatoes  five  minutes,  and  add  to  stew 
fifteen  minutes  before  taking  from  fire.  Remove  bones, 
large  pieces  of  fat,  and  then  skim.  Thicken  with  one- 
fourth  cup  flour,  diluted  with  enough  cold  water  to  pour 
easily.  Pour  in  deep  hot  platter,  and  surround  with  dump- 
lings. Remnants  of  roast  beef  are  usually  made  into  a  beef 
stew ;  the  meat  having  been  once  cooked,  there  is  no  neces- 
sity of  browning  it.  If  gravy  is  left,  it  should  be  added  to 
the  stew. 

Dumplings 
2  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  teaspoons  butter 

%  cup  milk 

Mix  aijd  sift  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  butter  with  tips  of 
fingers,  and  add  milk  gradually,  using  a  knife  for  mixing. 
Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat,  and  roll  out  to  one-half  inch  in 
thickness.  Shape  with  biscuit-cutter,  flrst  dipped  in  flour. 
Place  closely  together  in  a  buttered  steamer,  put  over  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  steam  twelve  minutes     A 


206  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

perforated  tin  pie-plate  may  be  used  in  place  of  steamer.  A 
little  more  milk  may  be  used  in  the  mixture,  when  it  may  be 
taken  up  by  spoonfuls,  dropped  and  cooked  on  top  of  stew. 
In  this  case  some  of  the  liquid  must  be  removed,  that  dump- 
lings may  rest  on  meat  and  potato,  and  not  settle  into 
liquid. 

Corned  Beef 

Corned  beef  has  but  little  nutritive  value.  It  is  used  to 
give  variety  to  our  diet  in  summer,  when  fresh  meats  prove 
too  stimulating.  It  is  eaten  by  the  workingman  to  give 
bulk  to  his  food.  The  best  pieces  of  corned  beef  are  the 
rattle  rand  and  fancy  brisket.  The  fancy  brisket  com- 
mands a  higher  price  and  may  be  easily  told  from  the  rattle 
rand  by  the  selvage  on  lower  side  and  the  absence  of  bones. 
The  upper  end  of  brisket  (butt  end)  is  thick  and  composed 
mostly  of  lean  meat,  the  middle  cut  has  more  fat  but  is  not 
well  mixed,  while  the  lower  (navel  end)  has  a  large  quantity 
of  fat.  The  rattle  rand  contains  a  thick  lean  end ;  the 
second  cut  contains  three  distinct  layers  of  meat  and  fat, 
and  is  considered  the  best  cut  by  those  who  prefer  meat 
well  streaked  with  fat.  The  rattle  rand  has  a  thin  end, 
which  contains  but  one  layer  of  lean  meat  and  much  fat, 
consequently  is  not  a  desirable  piece* 

To  Boil  Corned  Beef.  Wipe  the  meat  and  tie  securely  in 
shape,  if  this  has  not  been  already  done  at  market.  Put 
in  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  bring  slowly  to  boiling- 
point  Boil  five  minutes,  remove  scum,  and  cook  at  a  lower 
temperature  until  tender.  Cool  slightly  in  water  in  which  it 
was  cooked,  remove  to  a  dish,  cover,  and  place  on  cover  a 
weight,  that  meat  may  be  well  pressed.  The  lean  meat  and 
fat  may  be  separated  and  put  in  alternate  layers  in  a 
bread  pan,  then  covered  and  pressed. 

Boiled  Dinner 

A  boiled  dinner  consists  of  warm  unpressed  corned  beef, 
served  with  cabbage,  beets,  turnips,  carrots,  and  potatoes. 
After  removing  meat  from  water,  skim  off  fat  and  cook 
vegetables  (with  exception  of  beets,  which  require  a  long 


BEEF  207 

time  for  cooking)  in  this  water.  Carrots  require  a  longer 
time  for  cooking  than  cabbage  or  turnips.  Carrots  and 
turnips,  if  small,  may  be  cooked  whole ;  if  large,  cut  in 
pieces.  Cabbage  and  beets  are  served  in  separate  dishes, 
other  vegetables  on  same  dish  with  meat. 

Boiled  Tongue 
A  boiled  corned  tongue  is  cooked   the  same  as  Boiled 
Corned  Beef.      If  very  salt,  it  should  be  soaked  in  cold 
water  several  hours,  or  over  night,  before  cooking.     Take 
from  water  when  slightly  cooled  and  remove  skin. 

Braised  Tongue 
A  fresh  tongue  is  necessary  for  braising.  Put  tongue 
in  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  two 
hours.  Take  tongue  from  water  and  remove  skin  and  roots. 
Place  in  deep  pan  and  surround  with  one-third  cup  each 
carrot,  onion,  and  celery,  cut  in  dice,  and  one  sprig  parsley ; 
then  pour  over  four  cups  sauce.  Cover  closely,  and  bake 
two  hours,  turning  after  the  first  hour.  Serve  on  platter 
and  strain  around  the  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Tongue.  Brown  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add 
one-fourth  cup  flour  and  stir  together  until  well  browned. 
Add  gradually  four  cups  of  water  in  which  tongue  was 
cooked.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  one  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  Sauce.  One  and  one-half  cups  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes  may  be  used  in  place  of  some  of  the 
water. 

Broiled  Liver 

Cover  with  boiling  water  slices  of  liver  cut  one-half  inch 
thick,  let  stand  five  minutes  to  draw  out  the  blood ;  drain, 
wipe,  and  remove  the  thin  outside  skin  and  veins.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  greased  wire  broiler  and 
broil  five  minutes,  turning  often.  Remove  to  a  hot  platter, 
spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Liver  and  Bacon 
Prepare  as  for  Broiled  Liver,  cut  in  pieces  for  serving, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  ia 

baoon  fa*..    Serve  with  baoon. 


208  BOSTOK  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Bacon  I 

Place  strips  of  thinly  cut  bacon  on  board,  and  with  a  broad 
bladed  knife  make  strips  as  thin  as  possible.  Put  in  hot 
frying-pan  and  cook  until  bacon  is  crisp  and  brown,  occa- 
sionally pouring  off  fat  from  pan,  turning  frequently.  Drain 
on  brown  paper. 

Bacon  II 

Place  thin  slices  of  bacon  (from  which  the  rind  has  been 
removed)  closely  together  in  a  fine  wire  broiler ;  place  broiler 
over  dripping-pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  bacon  is  crisp 
and  brown,  turning  once.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  Fat 
which  has  dripped  into  the  pan  should  be  poured  out  and 
used  for  frying  liver,  eggs,  potatoes,  etc. 

Braised  Liver 

Skewer,  tie  in  shape,  and  lard  upper  side  of  calf's  liver. 
Place  in  deep  pan,  with  trimmings  from  lardoons ;  surround 
with  one-fourth  cup  each,  carrot,  onion,  and  celery,  cut  in 
dice ;  one-fourth  teaspoon  peppercorns,  two  cloves,  bit  of 
bay  leaf,  and  two  cups  Brown  Stock  or  water.  Cover  closely 
and  bake  slowly  two  hours,  uncovering  the  last  twenty 
minutes.  Kemove  from  pan,  strain  liquor,  and  use  liquor 
for  the  making  of  a  brown  sauce  with  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  butter  and  two  tablespoons' flour.  Pour  sauce 
around  liver  for  serving. 

Calf's  Liver,  Stuffed  and  Larded 

Make  a  deep  cut  nearly  the  entire  length  of  liver,  begin- 
ning at  thick  end,  thus  making  a  pouch  for  stuffing.  Fill 
pouch.  Skewer  liver  and  lard  upper  side.  Put  liver  in  bak- 
ing pan,  pour  around  two  cups  Brown  Sauce,  made  of  one 
tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour,  and  two  cups  Brown  Stock, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Bake  one  and  one-fourth  hours,  basting 
every  twelve  minutes  with  sauce  in  pan.  Remove  to  serving 
dish,  strain  sauce  around  liver,  and  garnish  with  Glazed  or 
French  Fried  Onions  (see  p.  296). 

Stuffing.  Mix  one-half  pound  chopped  cooked  cold  ham, 
one-half  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-half  small  onion  finely 
chopped,  and  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley.    Moisten 


BEEF  209 

with  Brown  Sauce ;  then  add  one  beaten  egg,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Broiled  Tripe 

Fresh  honeycomb  tripe  is  best  for  broiling.  Wipe  tripe  as 
dry  as  possible,  dip  in  fine  cracker  dust  and  olive  oil  or 
melted  butter,  draining  off  all  fat  that  is  possible,  and  again 
dip  in  cracker  dust.  Place  in  a  greased  broiler  and  broil 
five  minutes,  cooking  smooth  side  of  tripe  the  first  three 
minutes.  Place  on  a  hot  platter,  honeycomb  side  up,  spread 
with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Broiled  tripe 
is  at  its  best  when  cooked  over  a  charcoal  fire. 

Tripe  in  Batter 

Wipe  tripe  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  batter,  fry  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot 
fat,  and  drain. 

Tripe  Batter.  Mix  one  cup  flour  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt ;  add  gradually  one-half  cup  cold  water,  and  when  per- 
fectly smooth  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  one-half  tablespoon 
vinegar,  and  one  teaspoon  olive  oil  or  melted  butter. 

Tripe  Fried  in  Batter 

Cut  pickled  honeycomb  tripe  in  pieces  for  serving ;  wash, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  simmer  gently  twenty  minutes. 
Drain,  and  again  cover,  using  equal  parts  cold  water  and 
milk.  Heat  to  boiling-point,  again  drain,  wipe  as  dry  as 
possible,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  dip  in  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.     Serve  with  slices  of  lemon  and  Chili  Sauce. 

Batter.  Mix  and  sift  one  cup  flour,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  a 
few  grains  pepper.  Add  one-third  cup  milk  and  one  egg 
well  beaten. 

Lyonnaise  Tripe 

Cut  honeycomb  tripe  in  pieces  two  inches  long  by  one-half 
inch  wide,  having  three  cupfuls.  Put  in  a  pan  and  place  in 
oven  that  water  may  be  drawn  out.  Cook  one  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  onion  in  two  tablespoons  butter  until  slightly 

14 


210  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

browned,  add  tripe  drained  from  water,  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Tripe  k  la  Creole 

Cut,  bake,  and  drain  tripe  as  for  Lyonnaise  Tripe.  Cook 
same  quantity  of  butter  and  onion,  add  one-eighth  green 
pepper  finely  chopped,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one-half  cup 
stock,  one-fourth  cup  drained  tomatoes,  and  one  fresh  mush- 
room cut  in  slices ;  then  add  tripe  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Tripe  k  la  Provengale 

Add  to  Lyonnaise  Tripe  one  tablespoon  white  wine. 
Cook  until  quite  dry,  add  one -third  cup  Tomato  Sauce,  cook 
two  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

Calfs  Head  k  la  Terrapin 

Wash  and  clean  a  calf's  head,  and  cook  until  tender  in 
boiling  water  to  cover.  Cool,  and  cut  meat  from  cheek  in 
small  cubes.  To  two  cups  meat  dice  add  one  cup  sauce 
made  of  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  and 
one  cup  White  Stock,  seasoned  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Add 
one-half  cup  cream  and  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten ; 
cook  two  minutes  and  add  two  tablespoons  Madeira  wine. 

Calves'  Tongues 

Cook  tongues  until  tender  in  boiling  water  to  cover,  with 
six  slices  carrot,  two  stalks  celery,  one  onion  stuck  with  six 
cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns  and  one-half  table- 
spoon salt;  take  from  water  and  remove  skin  and  roots. 
Split  and  pour  over  equal  parts  brown  stock  and  tomatoes 
boiled  until  thick. 

Calves'  Tongues,  Sauce  Piquante 
Cook  four  tongues,  until  tender,  in  boiling  water,  to  cover, 
with  six  slices  carrot,  two  stalks  celery,  one  onion  stuck 
with  eight  cloves,  one  teaspoon  peppercorns,  and  one-half 
tablespoon  salt.  Take  tongues  from  water,  and  remove 
skin  and  roots.     Cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and  reheat  in 


BEEP  211 

Sauce  Piquante,     Brown  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  six 

tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned;  then  add 
two  cups  Brown  Stock  and  cook  three  minutes.  Season 
with  two-thirds  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  paprika, 
few  grains  of  cayenne,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one-half 
tablespoon  capers,  and  one  cucumber  pickle  thinly  sliced. 
Served  garnished  with  cucumber  pickles,  and  cold  cooked 
beets  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Calf  s  Heart 

Wash  a  calf's  heart,  remove  veins,  arteries,  and  clotted 
blood.  Stuff  (using  half  quantity  of  Fish  StuflSng  I  on 
page  164,  seasoned  highly  with  sage)  and  sew.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  and  brown  in  hot  fat. 
Place  in  small,  deep  baking-pan,  half  cover  it  with  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  and  bake  slowly  two  hours,  basting 
every  fifteen  minutes.  It  may  be  necessary  to  add  more 
water.  Remove  heart  from  pan,  and  thicken  the  liquor  with 
flour  diluted  with  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  around  the  heart  before 
serving. 

Stuffed  Hearts  with  Vegetables 

Clean  and  wash  calves'  hearts,  stuff,  skewer  into  shape, 
lard,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
saute  in  pork  fat,  adding  to  fat  one  stalk  celery,  one  table- 
spoon chopped  onion,  two  sprigs  parsley,  four  slices  carrot 
cut  in  pieces,  half  the  quantity  of  turnip,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
two  cloves,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  peppercorns.  Turn 
hearts  occasionally  until  well  browned,  then  add  one  and 
one-half  cups  Brown  Stock,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Serve  with  cooked  carrots  and  turnips  cut 
in  strips  or  fancy  shapes. 

Braised  Os:  Joints 
Cut  ox  tail  at  joints,  parboil  five  minutes,  wash  thoroughly, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  sautd  in  butter  (to  which  has  been 
added  a  sliced  onion)  until  well  browned.  Add  one-fourth 
cup  flour,  two  cups  each  brown  stock,  water,  and  canned 
tomatoesj  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper. 


212  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Turn  into  an  earthen  pudding-dish,  cover,  and  cook  slowly 
three  and  one-half  hours.  Remove  ox  tail,  strain  sauce,  and 
return  ox  tail  and  sauce  to  oven  to  finish  cooking.  Add  two- 
thirds  cup  each  carrot  and  turnip  (shaped  with  a  vegetable 
cutter  in  pieces  one-inch  long,  and  about  as  large  around  as 
macaroni)  parboiled  in  boiled  salted  water  five  minutes.  As 
soon  as  vegetables  are  soft,  add  Sherry  wine  to  taste,  and 
more  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed.    The  wine  may  be  omitted. 


WAYS   OF  WARMING  OVER  BEEF 

Roast  Beef  "w^ith  Gravy- 
Cut  cold  roast  beef  in  thin  slices,  place  on  a  warm  platter, 
and  pour  over  some  of  the  gravy  reheated  to  the  boiling- 
point.     If  meat  is  allowed  to  stand  in  gravy  on  the  range,  it 
becomes  hard  and  tough. 

Roast  Beef,  Mexican  Sauce 

Reheat  cold  roast  beef  cut  in  thin  slices,  in 

Mexican  Sauce.  Cook  one  onion,  finely  chopped,  in  two 
tablespoons  butter  five  minutes.  Add  one  red  pepper,  one 
green  pepper,  and  one  clove  of  garlic,  each  finely  chopped, 
and  two  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  pieces.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes,  add  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  celery  salt,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Cottage  Pie 

Cover  bottom  of  a  small  greased  baking-dish  with  hot 
mashed  potato,  add  a  thick  layer  of  roast  beef,  chopped  or  cut 
in  small  pieces  (seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops 
onion  juice)  and  moistened  with  some  of  the  gravy ;  cover 
with  a  thin  layer  of  mashed  potato,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
long  enough  to  heat  through. 

♦  -.     Beefsteak  Pie 

Cut  remnants  of  cold  broiled  steak  or  roast  beef  in  one- 
inch  cubes.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one-half  onion, 
and  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Remove  onion,  thicken  gravy 
with  flour  diluted  with  cold  water,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.    Add  potatoes  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  which 


WAYS   OF  WARMING   OVER  BEEP  213 

have  been  parboiled  eight  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Put  in  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  cool,  cover  with  baking- 
powder  biscuit  mixture  or  pie  crust.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
If  covered  with  pie  crust,  make  several  incisions  in  crust 
that  gases  may  escape. 

Cecils  with  Tomato  Sauce 

1  cup  cold  roast  beef  or  rare  Onion  juice 

steak  finely  chopped  Worcestershire  Sauce 

Salt  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

Pepper  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Yolk  1  egg  slightly  beaten 

Season  beef  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  and  Worces- 
tershire Sauce ;  add  remaining  ingredients,  shape  after  the 
form  of  small  croquettes,  pointed  at  ends.  Roll  in  flour, 
egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  sers^e  with  To- 
mato Sauce. 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Remove  skin  and  gristle  from  cooked  corned  beef,  then 
chop  the  meat.  When  meat  is  very  fat,  discard  most  of  the 
fat.  To  chopped  meat  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  boiled 
chopped  potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  into  a 
hot  buttered  frying-pan,  moisten  with  milk  or  cream,  stir 
until  well  mixed,  spread  evenly,  then  place  on  a  part  of  the 
range  where  it  may  slowly  brown  underneath.  Turn,  and 
fold  on  a  hot  platter.  Garnish  with  sprig  of  parsley  in  the 
middle. 

Corned  Beef  Hash  with  Beets 

When  preparing  Corned  Beef  hash,  add  one-half  as  much 
finely  chopped  cooked  beets  as  potatoes.  Cold  roast  beef  or 
one-half  roast  beef  and  one-half  corned  beef  may  be  used. 

Dried  Beef  w^ith  Cream 

^  lb.  smoked  dried  beef,  thinly  1  cup  scalded  cream 

sliced  1J4  tablespoons  flour 

Remove  skin  and  separate  meat  in  pieces,  cover  with  hot 
water,  let  stand  ten  minutes,  and  drain.  Dilute  flour  with 
enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily,  making  a  smooth  paste ; 
add  to  cream,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  ten  minutes.  Add 
beef,  and  reheat.  One  cup  White  Sauce  I  may  be  used  in 
place  of  cream,  omitting  the  bait** 


214  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  Xm 
LAMB  AND   MUTTON 

LAMB  is^the  name  given  to  the  meat  of  lambs  ;  mutton, 
to  the  meat  of  sheep.  Lamb,  coming  as  it  does  from 
the  young  creature,  is  immature,  and  less  nutritious  than 
mutton.  The  flesh  of  mutton  ranks  with  the  flesh  of  beef  in 
nutritive  value  and  digestibility.  The  fat  of  mutton,  on  ac- 
count of  its  larger  percentage  of  stearic  acid,  is  more  difficult 
')f  digestion  than  the  fat  of  beef. 

Lamb  may  be  eaten  soon  after  the  animal  is  killed  and 
dressed ;  mutton  must  hang  to  ripen.  Good  mutton  comes 
from  a  sheep  about  three  years  old,  and  should  hang  from 
two  to  three  weeks.  The  English  South  Down  Mutton  is  cut 
from  creatures  even  older  than  three  years.  Young  lamb, 
when  killed  from  six  weeks  to  three  months  old,  is  called 
spring  lamb,  and  appears  in  the  market  as  early  as  the  last 
of  January,  but  is  very  scarce  until  March.  Lamb  one  year 
old  is  called  a  yearling.  Many  object  to  the  strong  flavor  of 
mutton  ;  this  is  greatly  overcome  by  removing  the  pink  skin 
and  trimming  off  superfluous  fat. 

Lamb  and  mutton  are  divided  into  two  parts  by  cutting 
through  entire  length  of  backbone;  then  subdivided  into 
fore  and  hind  quarter,  eight  ribs  being  left  on  hind  quarter, 
—  while  in  beef  but  three  ribs  are  left  on  hind-quarter. 
These  eight  ribs  are  cut  into  chops  and  are  known  as  rib 
chops.  The  meat  which  lies  between  these  ribs  and  the  leg, 
cut  into  chops,  is  known  as  loin  or  kidney  chops. 

Lamb  and  mutton  chops  cut  from  loin  have  a  small  piece 
of  tenderloin  on  one  side  of  bone,  and  correspond  to  porter- 
house steaks  in  the  beef  creature.     Rib  chops  which  have  the 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON  215 

bone  cut  short  and  scraped  clean,  nearly  to  the  lean  meat, 
are  called  French  chops. 

The  leg  is  sold  whole  for  boiling  or  roasting.  The  fore- 
quarter  may  be  boned,  stuffed,  rolled,  and  roasted,  but  is 
more  often  used  for  broth,  stew,  or  fricassee. 

For  a  saddle  of  mutton  the  loin  is  removed  whole  before 
splitting  the  creature.  Some  of  the  bones  are  removed  and 
the  flank  ends  are  rolled^  fastened  with  wooden  skewers, 
and  securely  tied  to  keep  skewers  in  place. 

Good  quality  mutton  should  be  fine-grained  and  of  bright 
pink  color ;  the  fat  white,  hard,  and  flaky.  If  the  outside 
skin  comes  off  easily,  mutton  is  sure  to  be  good.  Lamb 
chops  may  be  easily  distinguished  from  mutton  chops  by  the 
red  color  of  bone.  As  lamb  grows  older,  blood  recedes 
from  bones ;  therefore  in  mutton  the  bone  is  white.  In  leg 
of  lamb  the  bone  at  joint  is  serrated,  while  in  leg  of  mutton 
the  bone  at  joint  is  smooth  and  rounded.  Good  mutton 
contains  a  larger  proportion  of  fat  than  good  beef.  Poor 
mutton  is  often  told  by  the  relatively  small  proportion  of 
fat  and  lean  as  compared  to  bone. 

Lamb  is  usually  preferred  well  done;  mutton  is  often 
cooked  rare. 

Broiled  Lamb  or  Mutton  Chops 
Wipe  chops,  remove  superfluous  fat,  and  place  in  a  broiler 
greased  with  some  of  mutton  fat.     In  loin  chops,  flank  may 
be  rolled  and  fastened  with  a  small  wooden  skewer.     Follow 
directions  for  Broiling  Beefsteak  on  page  196. 

Pan-broiled  Chops 

Chops  for  pan  broiling  should  have  flank  and  most  of  fat 
removed.     Wipe  chops  and  put  in  hissing  hot  frying-pan. 

Turn  as  soon  as  under  surface  is  seared,  and  sear  other 
side.  Turn  often,  using  knife  and  fork  that  the  surface 
may  not  be  pierced,  as  would  be  liable  if  fork  alone  were 
used.  Cook  eight  minutes  if  liked  rare,  ten  to  twelve  minutes 
if  liked  well  done.  Let  stand  around  edge  of  frying-pan  to 
brown  the  outside  fat.  When  half  cooked,  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Drain  on  brown  paper,  put  on  hot  platter,  and  spread 
with  butter  or  serve  with  Tomato  or  Soubise  Sauce. 


216  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Breaded  Mutton  Chops 
Wipe  and  trim  chops,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip 
in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  from  five  to 
eight  minutes,  and  drain.  Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce,  or 
stack  around  a  mound  of  mashed  potatoes,  fried  potato 
balls,  or  green  peas.  Never  fry  but  four  at  a  time,  and 
allow  fat  to  reheat  between  fryings.  After  testing  fat  for 
temperature,  put  in  chops  and  place  kettle  on  back  of  range, 
that  surface  of  chops  may  not  be  too  brown  while  the  inside 
is  still  underdone. 

«    Chops  k  la  Signora 

Gash  French  Chops  on  outer  edge,  extending  cut  half- 
way through  lean  meat.  Insert  in  each  gash  a  slice  of 
truffle,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  wrap  in  calf's  caul. 
Roll  in  flour,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  stale  bread  crumbs,  and 
saute  in  butter  eight  minutes,  turning  often.  Place  in  oven 
four  minutes  to  finish  cooking.  Arrange  on  hot  platter  for 
serving,  and  place  on  top  of  each  a  fresh  broiled  mushroom 
or  mushroom  baked  in  cream.  To  fat  in  pan  add  a  small 
quantity  of  boiling  water  and  pour  around  chops.  This  is  a 
delicious  way  of  cooking  chops  for  a  dinner  party. 

Lamb  Chops  a  la  Marseilles 

Pan  broil,  on  one  side,  six  French  chops,  cover  cooked 
side  with  Mushroom  Sauce,  place  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  eight  minutes.  Remove  to 
serving  dish,  place  a  paper  frill  on  each  chop,  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Mushroom  Sauce.  Brown  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well 
browned;  then  add  one-half  cup  highly  seasoned  Brown 
Stock.  Add  one-fourth  cup  chopped  canned  mushrooms, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Chops  k  la  Castillane 

Broil  six  lamb  chops,  arrange  on  slices  of  fried  egg-plant, 
and  pour  around  the    following   sauce :  Brown  three  table- 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON  217 

spoons  butter,  add  three  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and 
stir  until  well  browned ;  then  add,  gradually,  one  cup  rich 
Brown  Stock.  Cook  three  tablespoons  lean  raw  ham  cut 
in  small  cubes  in  one-half  tablespoon  butter  two  minutes. 
Moisten  with  two  tablespoons  Sherry  wine,  and  add  to  sauce 
with  two  tablespoons  finely  shredded  green  pepper.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Chops  en  Fapillote 

Finely  chop  the  whites  of  three  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  anci 
force  yolks  through  potato  ricer,  mix,  and  add  to  three 
common  crackers,  rolled  and  sifted ;  then  add  three  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  juice,  to  taste. 
Add  enough  cream  to  make  of  right  consistency  to  spread. 
Cover  chops  thinly  with  mixture  and  wrap  in  buttered 
paper  cases.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Re- 
move from  cases,  place  on  hot  platter,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Mutton  Cutlets  k  la  Maintenon 

Wipe  six  French  Chops,  cut  one  and  one-half  inches 
thick.  Split  meat  in  halves,  cutting  to  bone.  Cook  two 
and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  and  one  tablespoon  onion 
five  minutes ;  remove  onion,  add  one-half  cup  chopped 
mushrooms,  and  cook  five  minutes ;  then  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  three  tablespoons  stock,  one  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  paR3ley,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains 
cayenne.  Spread  mixture  between  layers  of  chops,  press 
together  lightly,  wrap  in  buttered  paper  cases,  and  broil  ten 
minutes.     Serve  with  Spanish  Sauce. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton 

Wipe  meat,  place  in  a  kettle,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Bring  quickly  to  boiling-point,  boil  five  minutes, 
and  skim.  Set  on  back  of  range  and  simmer  until  meat  is 
tender.  When  half  done,  add  one  tablespoon  salt.  Serve 
with  Caper  Sauce,  or  add  to  two  cups  White  Sauce  (made 
of  one-half  milk  and  one-half  Mutton  Stock),  two  ''hard- 
boUed  "  eggs  cut  in  slices. 


218  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOB: 

Braised  Leg  of  Mutton 

Order  a  leg  of  mutton  boned.  Wipe,  stuff,  sew,  and 
place  in  deep  pan.  Cook  five  minutes  in  one-fourth  cup 
butter,  a  slice  each  of  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip  cut  in  dice, 
one-half  bay  leaf,  and  a  sprig  each  of  thyme  and  parsley. 
Add  three  cups  hot  water,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt, 
and  twelve  peppercorns  ;  pour  over  mutton.  Cover  closely, 
and  cook  slowly  three  hours,  uncovering  for  the  last  half- 
hour.  Remove  from  pan  to  hot  platter.  Brown  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  four  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir 
until  well  browned ;  then  pour  on  slowly  the  strained  liquor ; 
there  should  be  one  and  three-fourths  cups. 

Stuffing 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

^  cup  melted  butter  %  tablespoon  Poultry 

^  teaspoon  salt  Seasoning 

^  cup  boiliug  water 

Roast  Lamb 

A  leg  of  lamb  is  usually  sent  from  market  wrapped  in  caul ; 
remove  caul,  wipe  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place 
on  rack  in  dripping-pan,  and  dredge  meat  and  bottom  of 
pan  with  flour.  Place  in  hot  oven,  and  baste  as  soon  as 
flour  in  pan  is  brown,  and  every  fifteen  minutes  afterwards 
until  meat  is  done,  which  will  take  about  one  and  three- 
fourths  hours.  It  may  be  necessary  to  put  a  small  quantity 
of  water  in  pan  while  meat  is  cooking.  \jQ^  of  lamb  may  be 
boned  and  stuffed  for  roasting.  See  Stuffing,  under  Braised 
Mutton. 

Make  gravy,  following  directions  for  Roast  Beef  Gravy 
on  page  202,  or  serve  with  Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

To  Carve  a  Leg  of  Lamb.  Cut  in  thin  slices  across  grain 
of  meat  to  the  bone,  beginning  at  top  of  the  leg. 

Lamb  Bretonne 

Serve  hot  thinly  sliced  roast  lamb  with 
Beans  Bretonne.     Soak  one  and  one-half  cups  pea  beans 
over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover,  drain,  and  parboil  until 


Kidney  Lamb  Chop;  Rib  Chop;  French  Chop. — Page  214. 


Crown   of  Lamb,  prepared  for   Roasting. — Page   219. 


Saddle  of  Mutton  as  purchased.  —  Page  191, 


.^ 


Roast    Saddle   of   Muttox    garkisiied    with    circular   pieces   op 
toast,  small  circular  pieces  of  currakt  jellt,  radishes  cut 

TO   REPRESENT   FUCHSIAS,    AND   PARSLEY.  —  Page   219. 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON  219 

soft;  again  drain,  put  in  earthen-ware  dish  or  bean  pot,  add 
tomato  sauce,  cover,  and  cook  until  beans  have  nearly 
absorbed  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Mix  one  cup  stewed  and  strained  toma- 
toes, one  cup  white  stock,  six  canned  pimentoes  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  one  onion  finely  chopped,  two  cloves  garlic 
finely  chopped,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  and  two  teaspoons  salt. 

Saddle  of  Mutton 

Mutton  for  a  saddle  should  always  be  dressed  at  market. 
Wipe  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  on  rack  in 
dripping-pan,  and  dredge  meat  and  bottom  of  pan  with  flour. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  one  and  one-fourth  hours,  basting  every 
fifteen  minutes.     Serve  with  Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

To  Carve  a  Saddle  of  Mutton,  cut  thin  slices  parallel  with 
backbone,  then  slip  the  knife  under  and  separate  slices  from 
ribs. 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  Currant  Mint  Sauce 

Follow  directions  for  Saddle  of  Mutton,  and  serve  with 
Currant  Mint  Sauce.     Separate  two-thirds  tumbler  of  cur- 
rant jelly  in  pieces,  but  do  not  beat  it.     Add  one  and  one- 
half   tablespoons  finely  chopped  mint  leaves  and  shavings 
from  the  rind  of  one-fourth  orange. 

Saddle  of  Lamb  k  TEstragnon 

Wipe  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  on  rack 
in  dripping-pan,  and  dredge  meat  and  bottom  of  pan  with 
flour.  Bake  in  hot  oven  one  and  one-fourth  hours,  basting 
every  fiftjeen  minutes.  Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  pour 
around  • 

Estragnon  Sauce.  Brown  four  tablespoons  butter,  add 
four  tablespoons  flour  (which  has  been  previously  browned), 
and  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  two  cups 
bouillon,  and  one-half  cup  stock  which  has  infused  with  one 
tablespoon  tarragon  one  hour. 

Crown  of  Lamb 

Select  parts  from  two  loins  containing  ribs,  scrape  flesh 
from  bone  between  ribs,  as  far  as  lean  meat,  and  trim  oflf 


220'  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 

backbone.  Shape  each  piece  in  a  semicircle,  having  ribs 
outside,  and  sew  pieces  together  to  form  a  crown.  Trim 
ends  of  bones  evenly,  care  being  taken  that  they  are  not  left 
too  long,  and  wrap  each  bone  in  a  thin  strip  of  fat  salt  pork 
or  insert  in  cubes  of  fat  salt  pork  to  prevent  bone  from 
burning;  then  cover  with  buttered  paper.  Roast  one  and 
one-fourth  hours. 

Remove  pork  from  bones  before  serving,  and  fill  centre 
with  Puree  of  Chestnuts. 

Lamb  en  Casserole 

Wipe  two  slices  of  lamb  cut  one  and  one-fourth  inches 
thick  from  centre  of  leg.  Put  in  hot  frying-pan,  and  turn 
frequently  until  seared  and  browned  on  both  sides.  Brush 
over  with  melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
bake  in  casserole  dish  twenty  minutes  or  until  tender.  Par- 
boil three-fourths  cup  carrot,  cut  in  strips,  fifteen  minutes ; 
drain,  and  saute  in  one  tablespoon  bacon  fat  to  which  has 
been  added  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion.  Add  to 
lamb,  with  one  cup  potato  balls,  two  cups  thin  Brown  Sauce, 
three  tablespoons  Sherry  wine,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  un- 
til potatoes  are  soft,  then  add  twelve  small  onions  cooked  until 
soft,  then  drained  and  sauted  in  two  tablespoons  butter  to  which 
is  added  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Onions  need  not  be  sauted 
unless  they  are  desired  glazed.     Serve  from  casserole  dish. 

Mutton  Curry 

Wipe  and  cut  meat  from  fore-quarter  of  mutton  in  one-inch 
pieces ;  there  should  be  three  cupfuls.  Put  in  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  bring  quickly  to  boiling-point ;  drain  in 
colander  and  pour  over  one  quart  cold  water.  Return  meat 
to  kettle,  cover  with  one  quart  boiling  water,  add  three 
onions  cut  in  slices,  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns,  and  a 
sprig  each  of  thyme  and  parsley.  Simmer  until  meat  is  ten- 
der, remove  meat,  strain  liquor,  and  thicken  with  one-fourth 
cup  each  of  butter  and  flour  cooked  together;  to  the  flour 
add  one-half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Add  meat  to  gravy, 
reheat,  and  serve  with  border  pf  steamed  rice. 


LAMB  AND  MtJTTOlir  221 

Fricassee  of  Lamb  -w^ith  Bro-w^n  Gravy 
Order  three  pounds  laiiib  from  the  fore-quarter,  cut  in 
pieces  for  serving.  Wipe  meat,  put  in  kettle,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender.  Remove 
from  water,  cool,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  saute  in  butter  or  mutton  fat.  Arrange  on  platter, 
and  pour  around  one  and  one-half  cups  Brown  Sauce  made 
from  liquor  in  which  meat  was  cooked  after  removing  all  fat. 
It  is  better  to  cook  meat  the  day  before  serving,  as  then  fat 
may  be  more  easily  removed. 

Mutton  Broth 

3  lbs.  mutton  (from  the  neck)  Few  grains  pepper 

2  quarts  cold  water  3  tablespoons  rice  or 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  barley 

Wipe  meat,  remove  skin  and  fat,  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  into  kettle  with  bones,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Heat 
gradually  to  boiling-point,  skim,  then  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender,  strain,  and  re- 
move fat.  Reheat  to  boiling-point,  add  rice  or  barley,  and 
cook  until  rice  or  barley  is  tender.  If  barley  is  used,  soak 
over  night  in  cold  water.  Some  of  the  meat  may  be  served 
with  the  broth. 

Irish  Stev7  ^^rith  Dumplings 

Wipe  and  cut  in  pieces  three  pounds  lamb  from  the  fore- 
quarter.  Put  in  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook 
slowly  two  hours  or  until  tender.  After  cooking  one  hour 
add  one-half  cup  each  carrot  and  turnip  cut  in  one-half  inch 
cubes,  and  one  onion  cut  in  slices.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
serving  add  four  cups  potatoes  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices, 
previously  parboiled  five  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Thicken 
with  one-fourth  cup  flour,  diluted  with  enough  cold  water  to 
form  a  thin  smooth  paste.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
serve  with  Dumplings.     (See  p.  205.) 

Scotch  Broth 

W'^ipe  three  pounds  mutton  cut  from  fore-quarter.  Cut 
lean  meat  in  one-inch  cubes,  put  in  kettle,  cover  with  three 


222  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

pints  cold  water,  bring  quickly  to  boiling-point,  skim,  and 
add  one-half  cup  barley  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water 
over  night ;  simmer  one  and  one-half  hours,  or  until  meat  is 
tender.  Put  bones  in  a  second  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water, 
heat  slowly  to  boiling-point,  skim,  and  boil  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Strain  water  from  bones  and  add  to  meat.  Fry  five 
minutes  in  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-fourth  cup  each  of 
carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and  celery,  cut  in  one-half  inch  dice, 
add  to  soup  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  cook  until 
vegetables  are  soft.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  each  of 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  one-half  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  parsley  just  before  serving.  Rice  may  be 
used  in  place  of  barley. 

Lambs'  Kidneys  I 

Soak,  pare,  and  cut  in  slices  six  kidneys,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter  in  hot 
frying-pan,  put  in  kidneys,  and  cook  five  minutes;  dredge 
thoroughly  with  flour,  and  add  two-thirds  cup  boiling  water 
or  hot  Brown  Stock.  Cook  five  minutes,  add  more  salt  and 
pepper  if  needed.  Lemon  juice,  onion  juice,  or  Madeira 
wine  may  be  used  for  additional  flavor.  Kidneys  must  be 
cooked  a  short  time,  or  for  several  hours ;  they  are  tender 
after  a  few  minutes'  cooking,  but  soon  toughen,  and  need 
hours  of  cooking  to  again  make  them  tender. 

Lambs'  Kidneys  II 

Soak,  pare,  trim,  and  slice  six  kidneys.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  saute  in  butter,  and  remove  to  a  hot  dish. 
Cook  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion  in  two  table- 
spoons butter  until  brown  ;  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and 
pour  on  slowly  one  and  one-half  cups  hot  stock.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  strain,  add  kidneys,  and  one  table- 
spoon Madeira  wine. 

Ragout  of  Kidneys 
Soak  lambs'  kidneys  one  hour  in  lukewarm  water.     Drain, 
clean,  cut  in  slices,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,   dredge 
with  flour,  and  saute  in  butter.     Fry  one  sliced  onion  and 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON  223 

one-half  shallot,  finely  chopped,  in  three  tablespoons  butter 
until  yellow ;  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  Brown  Stock.  Cook  five  minutes,  strain,  and 
add  one-half  cup  mushroom  caps  peeled  and  cut  in  quarters  ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  kidneys,  and  serve  as  soon 
as  heated.     White  wine  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Elidney  Rolls 
Mix  one-half  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-half  small 
onion,  finely  chopped,  and  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
parsley.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with 
beaten  egg.  Spread  mixture  on  thin  slices  of  bacon,  fasten 
around  pieces  of  lambs'  kidney,  using  skewers.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

WAYS   OF  WARMING   OVER   MUTTON  AND  LAMB 

Minced  Lamb  on  Toast 

Remove  dry  pieces  of  skin  and  gristle  from  remnants  of 
cold  roast  lamb,  then  chop  meat.  Heat  in  well-buttered 
frying-pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  salt,  and 
moisten  with  a  little  hot  water  or  stock ;  or,  after  seasoning, 
dredge  well  with  flour,  stir,  and  add  enough  stock  to  make 
thin  gravy.     Pour  over  small  slices  of  buttered  toast. 

Scalloped  Lamb 
Remove  skin  and  fat  from  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  lamb, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking-dish  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs;  cover 
meat  with  boiled  macaroni,  and  add  another  layer  of  meat 
and  macaroni.  Pour  over  Tomato  Sauce,  and  cover  with 
buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs 
are  brown.  Cold  boiled  rice  may  be  used  in  place  of 
macaroni. 

Blanquette  of  Lamb 
Cut  remnants  of  cooked  lamb  in  cubes  or  strips.     Reheat 
two  cups  meat  in  two  cups  sauce,  —  sauce  made  of  one- 
fourth  cup  each  of  butter  and  flour,  one  cup  White  Stock, 
and  one  cup  of  milk  which  has  been  scalded  with  two  blades 


224  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

of  mace.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  ada  one  table- 
spoon Mushroom  Catsup,  or  any  other  suitable  table  sauce. 
Garnish  with  large  croutons,  serve  around  green  peas,  or  in 
a  potato  border,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Barbecued  Lamb 

Cut  cold  roast  lamb  in  thin  slices  and  reheat  in  sauce 
made  by  melting  two  tablespoons  butter,  adding  three- 
fourths  tablespoon  vinegar,  one-fourth  cup  currant  jelly, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  French  mustard,  and  salt  and  cayenne 
to  taste. 

Rechauffe  of  Lamb 

Brown  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  and  one-half 
tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned ;  then  add 
one-fourth  teaspoon,  each,  curry  powder,  mustard,  and  salt, 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Add,  gradually,  one  cup 
brown  stock  and  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine.  Reheat  cold 
roast  lamb  cut  in  thin  slices  in  sauce. 

Salmi  of  Lamb 

Cut  cold  roast  lamb  in  thin  slices.  Cook  five  minutes  two 
tablespoons  butter  with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
onion.  Add  lamb,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover 
with  one  cup  Brown  Sauce,  or  one  cup  cold  lamb  gravy  sea- 
soned with  Worcestershire,  Harvey,  or  Elizabeth  Sauce. 
Cook  until  thoroughly  heated.  Arrange  slices  overlapping 
one  another  lengthwise  of  platter,  pour  around  sauce,  and 
garnish  with  toast  points.  A  few  sliced  mushrooms  or 
stoned  olives  improve  this  sauce. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat 
Line  a  mould,  slightly  greased,  with  steamed  rice.  Fill 
the  centre  with  two  cups  cold,  finely  chopped,  cooked  mut- 
ton, highly  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  celery  salt, 
onion  juice  and  lemon  juice;  then  add  one-fourth  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  enough  hot 
stock  or  water  to  moisten.  Cover  meat  with  rice,  cover 
rice  with  buttered  paper  to  keep  out  moisture  while  steam- 
ing, and  steam  forty-five  minutes.     Serve  on  a  platter  sur- 


LAMB   AND   MUTTON  225 

rounded  with  Tomato  Sauce.     Veal  may  be  used  in  place  of 
mutton. 

Breast  of  Lamb 

Wipe  a  breast  of  lamb,  put  in  kettle  with  bouquet  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  small  onion  stuck  with  six  cloves,  one-balf 
tablespoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns,  and  one- 
fourth  cup  each  carrot  and  turnip  cut  in  dice.  Cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  simmer  until  bones  will  slip  out  easily. 
Take  meat  from  water,  remove  bones,  and  press  under  weight. 
When  cool,  trim  in  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain.  Serve  with  Spanish  Sauce. 
Small  pieces  of  cold  lamb  may  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dipped  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and  fried  in 
deep  fat. 


15 


226  BOSTON  COOKXNG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XIV 
VEAL 

VEAL  is  the  meat  obtained  from  a  young  calf  killed 
when  six  to  eight  weeks  old.  Veal  from  a  younger 
animal  is  very  unwholesome,  and  is  liable  to  provoke  serious 
gastric  disturbances.  Veal  contains  a  much  smaller  per- 
centage of  fat  than  beef  or  mutton,  is  less  nutritious,  and 
(though  from  a  young  creature)  more  difficult  of  digestion. 
Like  lamb,  it  is  not  improved  by  long  hanging,  but  should 
be  eaten  soon  after  killing  and  dressing.  It  should  always 
be  remembered  that  the  flesh  of  young  animals  does  not  keep 
fresh  as  long  as  that  of  older  ones.  Veal  is  divided  in  same 
manner  as  lamb,  into  fore  and  hind  quarters.  The  fore- 
quarter  is  subdivided  into  breast,  shoulder,  and  neck ;  the 
hind-quarter  into  loin,  leg,  and  knuckle.  Cutlets,  fillets 
(cushion),  and  fricandeau  are  cut  from  the  thick  part  of 
leg. 

Good  veal  may  be  known  by  its  pinkish-colored  flesh  and 
white  fat ;  when  the  flesh  lacks  color,  it  has  been  taken  from 
a  creature  which  was  too  young  to  kill  for  food,  or,  if  of  the 
right  age,  was  bled  before  killing.  Veal  may  be  obtained 
throughout  the  year,  but  is  in  season  during  the  spring. 
Veal  should  be  thoroughly  cooked ;  being  deficient  in  fat 
and  having  but  little  flavor,  pork  or  butter  should  be  added 
while  cooking,  and  more  seasoning  is  required  than  for 
other  meats. 

Veal  Cutleta 

Use  slices  of  veal  from  leg  cut  one-half  inch  thick.     Wipe, 

remove  bone  and  skin,  then  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.     The 

long,  irregular- shaped   pieces  may  be  rolled,  and  fastened 

with  small  wooden  skewers.     Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  ?. 


VEAL  22T 

dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs ;  fry  slowly,  until  well  browned, 
in  salt  pork  fat  or  butter ;  then  remove  cutlets  to  stewpan 
and  pour  over  one  and  one-half  cups  Brown  Sauce.  Place 
on  back  of  range  and  cook  slowly  forty  minutes,  or  until 
cutlets  are  tender. 

Veal  may  be  cooked  first  in  boiling  water  until  tender, 
then  crumbed  and  fried.  The  water  in  which  veal  was 
cooked  may  be  used  for  sauce.  Arrange  on  hot  platter, 
strain  sauce  and  pour  around  cutlets,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Brown  Sauce.  Brown  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned.  Add  gradu- 
ally one  and  one-half  cups  stock  or  water,  or  half  stock  and 
half  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, lemon  juice,  and  Worcestershire  Sauce.  The  trimmings 
from  veal  (including  skin  and  bones)  may  be  covered  with 
one  and  one-half  cups  cold  water,  allowed  to  heat  slowly  to 
boiling-point,  then  cooked,  ^trained,  and  used  for  sauce. 

Veal  Chops  Bavarian 

Wipe  six  loin  chops  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with  one-half 
onion,  eight  slices  carrot,  two  stalks  celery,  one-half  tea- 
spoon peppercorns,  four  cloves,  and  two  tablespoons  butter. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Arrange  chops 
on  hot  serving  dish  and  surround  with  boiled  flat  maccaroni 
to  which  Soubise  Sauce  (see  p.  267)  is  added. 

Fricassee  of  Veal 
Wipe  two  pounds  sliced  veal,  cut  from  loin,  and  cover 
with  boiling  water ;  add  one  small  onion,  two  stalks  celery, 
and  six  slices  carrot.  Cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender. 
Remove  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  saute  in  pork  fat.  Strain  liquor  (there  should  be 
two  cups).  Melt  four  tablespoons  butter,  add  four  table- 
spoons flour  and  strained  liquor.  Bring  to  boiling-point, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  around  meat.  Gar« 
nish  with  parsley. 


228  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Minuten  Fleisch 

1^  lbs.  veal  cut  in  Flour 

thin  slices  1}{  cups  Brown  Stock 

Salt  and  pepper  Juice  1  lemon 

^  cup  claret  wine  2  sprigs  parsley 

Pound  veal  until  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  cut  in  pieces 
for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  baking- 
pan,  pour  over  wine,  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Drain, 
dip  in  flour,  arrange  in  two  buttered  pans,  and  pour  over 
remaining  ingredients  and  wine  which  was  drained  from 
meat.  Cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender.  Re- 
move to  serving  dish  and  pour  over  sauce  remaining  in  pan. 

Loin  of  Veal  k  la  Jardiniere 

Wipe  four  pounds  loin  of  veal,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  one-fourth  cup  butter  in 
deep  stewpan ;  when  melted,  add  veal  and  brown  entire 
surface  of  meat,  watching  carefully  and  turning  often,  that 
it  may  not  burn.  Add  one  cup  hot  water,  cover  closely,  and 
cook  slowly  two  hours,  or  until  meat  is  tender,  adding  more 
water  as  needed,  using  in  all  about  three  cups.  Remove 
meat,  thicken  stock  remaining  in  pan  with  flour  diluted  with 
enough  cold?  water  to  pour  easily.  Surround  the  meat  with 
two  cups  each  boiled  turnips  and  carrots,  cut  in  half-inch 
cubes,  and  potatoes  cut  in  balls.     Serve  gravy  in  a  tureen. 

Braised  Shoulder  of  Veal 

Bone,  stuff,  and  sew  in  shape  five  pounds  shoulder  of  veal; 
then  cook  same  as  Braised  Beef,  adding  with  vegetables  two 
sprigs  thyme  and  one  of  marjoram. 

English  Meat  Pie 

Knuckle  of  veal  Blade  of  mace 

1  slice  onion  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  slice  carrot  }^  lb.  lean  raw  ham 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  -  4  tablespoons  flour 

Sprig  of  parsley  4  tablespoons  butter 

12  peppercorns  2  doz.  bearded  oysters 

Remove  meat  from  bones.  Cover  bones  with  cold  water, 
add  vegetables  and  seasonings,  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling 


VEAL  229 

point.  Add  meat,  boil  five  minutes,  and  let  simmer  until 
meat  is  tender ;  remove  meat  and  reduce  stock  to  two  cups. 
Put  ham  in  frying-pan,  cover  with  lukewarm  water,  and  let 
stand  on  back  of  range  one  hour.  Brown  butter,  add  flour, 
and  when  well  browned  add  stock  ;  then  add  veal  and  ham 
each  cut  into  cubes.  Let  simmer  twenty  minutes  and  add 
oysters.  Put  in  serving  dish  and  cover  with  top  made  of 
puff  paste.  It  is  much  better  to  bake  the  paste  separately 
and  cover  pie  just  before  sending  to  table. 

Roast  Veal 
The  leg,  cushion  (thickest  part  of  leg),  and  loin,  are  suit- 
able pieces  for  roasting.  When  leg  is  to  be  used,  it  should 
be  boned  at  market.  Wipe  meat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, stuff,  and  sew  in  shape.  Place  on  rack  in  dripping-pan, 
dredge  meat  and  bottom  of  pan  with  flour,  and  place  around 
meat  strips  of  fat  salt  pork.  Bake  three  or  four  hours  in 
moderate  oven,  basting  every  fifteen  minutes  with  one-third 
cup  butter  melted  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  until  used, 
then  baste  with  fat  in  pan.     Serve  with  brown*gravy. 

Pricandeau  of  Veal 
Lard  a  cushion  of  veal  and  roast  or  braise. 

India  Curry- 
Wipe  a  slice  of  veal  one-half  inch  thick,  weighing  one  and 
one-half  pounds,  and  cook  in  frying-pan  without  butter, 
quickly  searing  one  side,  then  the  other.  Place  on  a  board 
and  cut  in  one  and  one-half  inch  pieces.  Fry  two  sliced 
onions  in  one-half  cup  butter  until  brown,  remove  onions, 
and  add  to  the  butter,  meat,  and  one-half  tablespoon  curry 
powder,  thfen  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cook  slowly  until 
meat  is  tender.  Thicken  with  flour  diluted  with  enough 
cold  water  to  pour  easily;  then  add  one  teaspoon  vinegar. 
Serve  with  a  border  of  steamed  rice. 

Veal  Birds 

Wipe  slices  of  veal  from  leg,  cut  as  thinly  as  possible, 
then  remove  bone,  skin,  and  fat.  Pound  until  one-fourth 
inch  thick  and  cut  in  pieces  two  and  one-half  inches  long  by 
om  and  Que- half  inches  wide,  each  piece  making  a  bird. 


230  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chop  trimmings  of  meat,  adding  for  every  three  birds  a 
piece  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  one  inch  square  and  one-fourth  inch 
thick;  pork  also  to  be  chopped.  Add  to  trimmings  and  pork 
one-half  their  measure  of  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  season 
highly  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  poultry  seasoning,  lemon 
juice,  and  onion  juice.  Moisten  with  beaten  egg  and  hot 
water  or  stock.  Spread  each  piece  with  thin  layer  of  mix- 
ture and  avoid  having  mixture  come  close  to  edge.  Roll, 
and  fasten  with  skewers.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  until  a  golden  brown. 
Put  in  stewpan,  add  cream  to  half  cover  meat,  cook  slowly 
twenty  minutes  or  until  tender.  Serve  on  small  pieces  of 
toast,  straining  cream  remaining  in  pan  over  birds  and  toast, 
and  garnish  with  parsley.  A  Thin  White  Sauce  in  place  of 
cream  may  be  served  around  birds. 

Veal  Loaf  I 

Separate  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  pieces  by  sawing  through 
bone.  Wipe,  put  in  kettle  with  one  pound  lean  veal  and  one 
onion ;  cover  ^ith  boiling  water,  and  cqok  slowly  until  veal 
is  tender.  Drain,  chop  meat  finely,  and  season  highly  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  bottom  of  a  mould  with  slices  of 
'^hard-boiled"  eggs  and  parsley.  Put  in  layer  of  meat,  layer 
of  thinly  sliced  "  hard-boiled "  eggs,  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley,  and  cover  with  remaining  meat.  Pour  over 
liquor,  which  should  be  reduced  to  one  cupful.  Press  and 
chill,  turn  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Veal  Loaf  II 

Wipe  three  pounds  lean  veal,  and  remove  skin  and  mem- 
brane. Chop  finely  or  force  through  meat  chopper,  then  add 
one-half  pound  fat  salt  pork  (also  finely  chopped),  six 
common  crackers  (rolled),  four  tablespoons  cream,  two 
tablespoons  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one-half  table- 
spoon pepper,  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice.  Pack  in  a 
small  bread-pan,  smooth  evenly  on  top,  brush  with  white  of 
egg,  and  bake  slowly  three  hours,  basting  with  one-fourth 
cup  pork  fat.  Prick  frequently  while  baking,  that  pork  fat 
may  be  absorbed  by  meat.  Cool,  remove  from  pan,  and  cut 
in  thin  slices  for  serving. 


VEAL  231 

Broiled  Veal  Kidneys 

Order  veal  kidneys  with  the  suet  left  on.  Trim,  split, 
and  broil  ten  minutes.  Arrange  on  pieces  of  toast  and  pour 
over  melted  butter  seasoned  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon 
juice. 

Veal  Kidneys  k  la  Canfield 

Trim  kidneys,  cook  in  Brown  Stock  ten  minutes,  drain,  and 
cut  in  slices.  Arrange  alternate  slices  of  kidney  and  thinly 
sliced  bacon  on  skewers  with  a  fresh  mushroom  cap  at 
either  end  of  each  skewer.  Broil  until  bacon  is  crisp  and 
arrange  on  pieces  of  toast.  Pour  over  sauce  made  from 
stock  in  which  kidneys  were  cooked,  seasoned  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  Madeira  wine. 

WAYS  OF  WARMING  OVER  VEAL 
Minced  Veal  on  Toast 

Prepare  as  Minced  Lamb  on  Toast,  using  veal  in  place  of 
lamb. 

Blanquette  of  Veal 

Reheat  two  cups  cold  roast  veal,  cut  in  small  strips,  in 
one  and  one-half  cups  White  Sauce  I.  Serve  in  a  potato 
border  and  sprinkle  over  all  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Ragoftt  of  Veal 

Reheat  two  cups  cold  roast  veal,  cut  in  cubes,  in  one  and 
one-half  cups  Brown  Sauce  seasoned  with  one  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  Sauce,  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne. 


232  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XV 
SWEETBREADS 

A  SWEETBREAD  is  the  thymus  gland  of  lamb  or  calf, 
but  in  cookery,  veal  sweetbreads  only  are  consid- 
ered. It  is  prenatally  developed,  of  unknown  function,  and 
as  soon  as  calf  is  taken  from  liquid  food  it  gradually  dis- 
appears\  Pancreas,  stomach  sweetbread,  is  sold  in  some 
sections  of  the  country,  but  in  our  markets  this  custom  is 
not  practised.  Sweetbreads  are  a  reputed  table  delicacy, 
and  a  valuable  addition  to  the  menu  of  the  convalescent. 

A  sweetbread  consists  of  two  parts,  connected  by  tubing 
and  membranes.  The  round,  compact  part  is  called  the 
heart  sweetbread,  as  its  position  is  nearer  the  heart;  the 
other  part  is  called  the  throat  sweetbread.  When  sweet- 
bread is  found  in  market  separated,  avoid  buying  two  of 
the  throat  sweetbreads,  as  the  heart  sweetbread  is  more 
desirable. 

Sweetbreads  spoil  very  quickly.  They  should  be  re- 
moved from  paper  as  soon  as  received  from  market, 
plunged  into  cold  water  and  allowed  to  stand  one  hour, 
drained,  and  put  into  acidulated  salted  boiling  water, 
then  allowed  to  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes;  again  drained, 
and  plunged  into  cold  water,  that  they  may  be  kept  white 
and  firm.  Sweetbreads  are  always  parboiled  in  this  manner 
for  subsequent  cooking. 

Broiled  Sweetbread 
Parboil  a  sweetbread,  split  cross-wise,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,   and   broil   five  minutes.      Serve  with  Lemon 
Butter. 


SWEETBREADS  233 

Creamed  S"weetbread 
Parboil  a  sweetbread,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes,  or 
separate  in  small  pieces.     Reheat  in  one  cup  White  Sauce  II. 
Creamed  Sweetbread  may  be  served  on  toast,  or  used  as 
filling  for  patty  cases  or  Swedish  Timbales. 

Creamed  Sweetbread  and  Chicken 
Reheat  equal  parts  of  cold  cooked  chicken,  and  sweetbread 
cut  in  dice,  in  White  Sauce  II. 

S-weetbread  k  la  Poulette 
Reheat  sweetbread,  cut  in  cubes,  in   one  cup  Bechamel 
Sauce. 

Sweetbreads,  Country  Style 
Parboil  sweetbreads,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
dredge  with  flour.  Arrange  in  baking-dish,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  allowing  two  tablespoons  to  each  pair  of 
sweetbreads,  and  cover  with  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  over  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  twice  during 
the  cooking,  and  remove  pork  during  the  last  five  minutes  of 
the  cooking.  • 

Larded  Sweetbread 
Parboil  a  sweetbread,  lard  the  upper  side,  and  bake  until 
well  browned,  basting  with  Meat  Glaze. 

Sweetbreads  k  la  Napoli 
Parboil  a  large  sweetbread  and  cut  in  eight  pieces.  Cook 
in  hot  frying-pan  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter,  adding 
enough  beef  extract  to  give  sweetbread  a  glazed  appearance. 
Cut  bread  in  slices,  shape  with  a  circular  cutter  three  and 
one-half  inches  in  diameter,  and  toast.  Spread  each  piece 
with  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese  seasoned  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  moistened  with  two  tablespoons  heavy 
cream.  Arrange  one  piece  of  sweetbread  on  each  piece  of 
toast  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  In  individual 
glass-covered  dishes,  having  two  tablespoons  cream  in  each 
dish.  Cover  each  piece  of  sweetbread  with  sauted  mushroom 
cap,  put  on  glass  covers,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  eight 
minutes. 


234  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Braiaied  Sweetbreads  Eugenie 

Parboil  a  sweetbread  in  Sherry  wine  twelve  minutes. 
Drain,  cool,  cut  in  four  pieces,  and  lard.  Cook  in  frying- 
pan  same  as  Sweetbreads  k  la  Napoli.  Peel  mushroom  caps, 
cover  with  Sherry  wine,  let  stand  one  hour,  drain,  and  saute 
in  butter.  Arrange  on  circular  pieces  of  toast,  over  each  of 
which  has  been  poured  one  teaspoon  wine  drained  from 
mushroom  caps,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pile  five 
or  six  mushroom  caps  on  each  piece  of  sweetbread,  add  two 
tablespoons  heavy  cream,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  eight 
minutes.     Cook  in  individual  glass-covered  dishes. 

Sweetbread  Cutlets  w^ith  Asparagus  Tips 
Parboil  a  sweetbread,  split,  and  cut  in  pieces  shaped  like 
a  small  cutlet,  or  cut  in  circular  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and  saute  in 
batter.  Arrange  in  a  circle  around  Creamed  Asparagus 
Tips. 

Sweetbread  w^ith  Tomato  Sauce 
Prepare   as   Sweetbread   Cutlets   with   Asparagus    Tips, 
saute  in  butter  or  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce. 

Sweetbread  and  Bacon 
Parboil  a  sweetbread,  cut  in  small  pieces,  dip  in  flour, 
egg,  and  crumbs,  and  arrange  alternately  with  pieces  of 
bacon  on  small  skewers,  having  four  pieces  sweetbread  and 
three  of  bacon  on  each  skewer.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 
Arrange  in  a  circle  around  mound  of  green  peas. 


Sweetbread  a  la  Napoli.  —  Page  23S. 


Braised  Sweetbreads  Euoek^ie.  —  Page  fSS4, 


i 

! 

U«»          ■    II       1        » »-....-, ^. ^r«^^.....«..»...,^.,„ 

.   1 

- — J 

BttESLiN  Potted  Chickek  in  Casserole  Dish.  —  Page 


Broiled  Chickek  garnished  with   French  Fried  Potatoes. 

Slices  of  Broiled  Tomatoes,  Parsley,  and  Lettuce. 

Pag$  946, 


PORK  235 


.    CHAPTER  XVI 
PORK 

PORK  is  the  flesh  and  fat  of  pig  or  hog.  Different 
parts  of  the  creature,  when  dressed,  take  different 
names. 

The  chine  and  spareribs,  which  correspond  to  the  loin  in 
lamb  and  veal,  are  used  for  roasts  or  steaks.  Two  ribs  are 
left  on  the  chine.  The  hind  legs  furnish  hams.  These  are 
cured,  salted,  and  smoked.  Sugar-cured  hams  are  considered 
the  best.  Pickle,  to  which  is  added  light  brown  sugar, 
molasses,  and  saltpetre,  is  introduced  close  to  bone;  hams 
are  allowed  to  hang  one  week,  then  smoked  with  hickory 
wood.  Shoulders  are  usually  corned,  or  salted  and  smoked, 
though  sometimes  cooked  fresh.  Pigs*  feei  are  boiled  until 
tender,  split,  and  covered  with  vinegar  made  from  white 
wine.  Hocks,  the  part  just  above  the  feet,  are  corned,  and 
much  used  by  Germans.  Heads  are  soused,  and  cooked 
by  boiling.  The  flank,  which  lies  just  below  the  ribs,  is 
salted  and  smoked,  and  furnishes  bacon.  The  best  pieces  of 
fat  salt  pork  come  from  the  back,  on  either  side  of  backbone. 

Fat,  when  separated  from  flesh  and  membrane,  is  tried 
out  and  called  lard.  Leaf -lard  is  the  best,  and  is  tried  out 
from  the  leaf  shaped  pieces  of  solid  fat  which  lie  inside  the 
flank.  Sausages  are  trimmings  of  lean  and  fat  meat,  minced, 
highly  seasoned,  and  forced  into  thin  casings  made  of  the 
prepared  entrails.  1/ittle  pigs  (four  weeks  old)  are  some- 
times killed,  dressed,  and  roasted  whole. 

Pork  contains  the  largest  percentage  of  fat  of  any  meat 
When  eaten  fresh  it  is  the  most  difficult  of  digestion,  and 


236  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

although  found  in  market  through  the  entire  year,  it  should 
be  but  seldom  served,  and  then  only  during  the  winter  months. 
By  curing,  salting,  and  smoking,  pork  is  rendered  more  whole- 
some. Bacon,  next  to  butter  and  cream,  is  the  most  easily 
assimilated  of  all  fatty  foods. 

Pork  Chops 
Wipe  chops,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  hot 
frying-pan,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  and  well  browned 
on  each  side. 

Pork  Chops  "w^ith  Fried  Apples 
Arrange  Pork   Chops   on   a   platter,   and  surround  with 
slices  of  apples,  cut  one-half  inch  thick,  fried  in  the  fat 
remaining  in  pan. 

Hoast  Pork 
Wipe  pork,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  on  a  rack 
in  a  dripping-pan,  and  dredge  meat  and  botton  of  pan  with 
flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three  or  four  hours,  basting 
every  fifteen  minutes  with  fat  in  pan.  Make  a  gravy  as  for 
other  roasts. 

Pork  Tenderloins  "with  Sweet  Potatoes 
Wipe  tenderloins,  put  in  a  dripping-pan,  and  brown  quickly 

in  a  hot  oven ;  then  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake 

forty-five  minutes,  basting  every  fifteen  minutes. 

Sweet    Potatoes.      Pare    six   potatoes    and    parboil   ten 

minutes,  drain,  put  in  pan  with  meat,  and  cook  until  soft, 

basting  when  basting  meat. 

Breakfast  Bacon 
See  Liver  and  Bacon,  page  207. 

Fried  Salt  Pork  with  Codfish 
Cut  fat  salt  pork  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  cut  gashes  one- 
third  inch  apart  in  slices,  nearly  to  rind.  Try  out  in  a  hot 
frying-pan  until  brown  and  crisp,  occasionally  turning  off 
fat  from  pan.  Serve  around  strips  of  codfish  which  have 
been  soaked  in  pan  of  lukewarm  water  and  allowed  to  stand 
on  back  of  range  until  soft.  Serve  with  Drawn  Butter  Sauce, 
boiled  potatoes,  and  beets. 


PORK  237 

Broiled  Ham 

Soak  thin  slices  of  ham  one  hour  in  lukewarm  water. 
Drain,  wipe,  and  broil  three  minutes. 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs 
Wipe  ham,  remove  one-half  outside  layer  of  fat,  and  place 
in  frying-pan.  Cover  with  tepid  water  and  let  stand  on  back 
of  range  thirty  minutes ;  drain,  and  dry  on  a  towel.  Heat 
pan,  put  in  ham,  brown  quickly  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown 
other  side;  or  soak  ham  over  night,  dry,  and  cook  in  hot 
frying-pan.  If  cooked  too  long,  ham  will  become  hard  and 
dry.  Serve  with  fried  eggs  cooked  in  the  tried-out  ham 
fat. 

Barbecued  Ham 

Soak  thin  slices  of  ham  one  hour  in  lukewarm  water; 
drain,  wipe,  and  cook  in  a  hot  frying-pan  until  slightly 
browned.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  add  to  fat  in  pan 
three  tablespoons  vinegar  mixed  with  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  and  one-eighth 
teaspoon  paprika.  When  thoroughly  heated  pour  over  ham 
and  serve  at  once. 

Boiled  Ham 

Soak  several  hours  or  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
Wash  thoroughly,  trim  off  hard  skin  near  end  of  bone,  put 
in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  heat  to  boiling-point,  and 
cook  slowly  until  tender.  See  Time  Table  for  Cooking, 
page  28.  Remove  kettle  from  range  and  set  aside,  that  ham 
may  partially  cool ;  then  take  from  water,  remove  outside 
skin,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  stick 
with  cloves  one-half  inch  apart.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.     Serve  cold,  thinly  sliced. 

Roast  Ham  with  Champagne  Sauce 

Place  a  whole  baked  ham  in  the  oven  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving  time,  that  outside  fat  may  be  heated.  Re- 
move to  a  hot  platter,  garnish  bone  end  with  a  paper  ruffle, 
and  serve  with  Champagne  Sauce. 


238  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Westphalian  Ham 

These  hams  are  imported  from  Germany,  and  need  no 
additional  cooking.     Cut  in  very  thin  slices  for  serving. 

Broiled  Pigs'  Feet 

Wipe,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  broil  six  to 
eight  minutes.  Serve  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  or  Sauce 
Piquante. 

Fried  Pigs'  Feet 

Wipe,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg^ 
and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Sausages 

Cut  apart  a  string  of  sausages.  Pierce  each  sausage 
several  times  with  a  carving  fork.  Put  in  frying-pan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes ;  drain,  return 
to  frying-pan,  and  fry  until  well  browned.  Serve  with  fried 
apples.  Sausages  are  often  broiled  same  as  bacon  and 
apples  baked  in  pan  under  them. 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Pick  over  one  quart  pea  beans,  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  soak  over  night.  In  morning,  drain,  cover  with  fresh 
water,  heat  slowly  (keeping  water  below  boiling-point),  and 
cook  until  skins  will  burst,  —  which  is  best  determined  by 
taking  a  few  beans  on  the  tip  of  a  spoon  and  blowing  on 
them,  when  skins  will  burst  if  sufficiently  cooked.  Beans 
thus  tested  must,  of  course,  be  thrown  away.  Drain  beans, 
throwing  bean-water  out  of  doors,  not  in  sink.  Scald  rind  of 
three-fourths  pound  fat  salt  pork,  scrape,  remove  one-fourth 
inch  slice  and  put  in  bottom  of  bean-pot.  Cut  through  rind 
of  remaining  pork  every  one-half  inch,  making  cuts  one  inch 
deep.  Put  beans  in-  pot  and  bury  pork  in  beans,  leaving 
rind  exposed.  Mix  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon 
molasses,  and  three  tablespoons  sugar;  add  one  cup  boiling 
water,  and  pour  over  beans ;  then  add  enough  more  boiling 
water  to  cover  beans.  Cover  bean-pot,  put  in  oven,  and 
bake  slowly  six  or  eight  hours,  uncovering  the  last  hour  of 


PORK  239 

cooking,  that  rind  may  become  brown  and  crisp.  Add 
water  as  needed.  Many  feel  sure  that  by  adding  with  sea- 
sonings one-half  tablespoon  mustard,  the  beans  are  more 
easily  digested.  If  pork  mixed  with  lean  is  preferred,  use 
less  salt. 

The  fine  reputation  which  Boston  Baked  Beans  have 
gained  has  been  attributed  to  the  earthen  bean-pot  with 
small  top  and  bulging  sides  in  which  they  are  supposed  to 
be  cooked.  Equally  good  beans  have  often  been  eaten 
where  a  five-pound  lard  pail  was  substituted  for  the  broken 
bean-pot. 

Yellow-eyed  beans  are  very  good  when  baked. 


240  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XVII 
POULTRY  AND  GAME 

POULTRY  includes  all  domestic  birds  suitable  for  food 
except  pigeon  and  squab.  Examples:  chicken,  fowl, 
turkey,  duck,  goose,  etc.  Game  includes  such  birds  and 
animals  suitable  for  food  as  are  pursued  and  taken  in  field 
and  forest.  Examples :  quail,  partridge,  wild  duck,  plover, 
deer,  etc. 

The  flesh  of  chicken,  fowl,  and  turkey  has  much  shorter 
fibre  than  that  of  ruminating  animals,  and  is  not  inter- 
mingled with  fat,  —  the  fat  always  being  found  in  layers 
directly  under  the  skin,  and  surrounding  the  intestines. 
Chicken,  fowl,  and  turkey  are  nutritious,  and  chicken  is 
specially  easy  of  digestion.  The  white  meat  found  on  breast 
and  wing  is  more  readily  digested  than  the  dark  meat.  The 
legs,  on  account  of  constant  motion,  are  of  a  coarser  fibre 
and  darker  color. 

Since  incubators  have  been  so  much  used  for  hatching 
chickens,  small  birds  suitable  for  broiling  may  be  always 
found  in  market.  Chickens  which  appear  in  market  during 
January  weighing  about  one  and  one-half  pounds  are  called 
spring  chickens. 

Fowl  is  found  in  market  throughout  the  year,  but  is  at  its 
best  from  March  until  June. 

Philadelphia,  until  recentl}',  furnished  our  market  with 
Philadelphia  chickens  and  capons,  but  now  Massachusetts 
furnishes  equally  good  ones,  which  are  found  in  market  from 
December  to  June.  They  are  very  large,  plump,  and  supe- 
rior eating.  At  an  early  age  they  are  deprived  of  the  organs 
of  reproduction,  penned,  and  specially  fatted  for  killing. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  241 

They  are  recognized  by  the  presence  of  head,  tail,  and  wing 
feathers. 

Turkeys  are  found  in  market  throughout  the  year,  but  are 
best  during  the  winter  months.  Tame  ducks  and  geese  are 
very  indigestible  on  account  of  the  large  quantity  of  fat 
they  contain.  Goose  meat  is  thoroughly  infiltrated  with  fat, 
containing  sometimes  forty  to  forty-five  per  cent.  Pigeons, 
being  old  birds,  need  long,  slow  cooking  to  make  them  ten- 
der. Squabs  (young  pigeons)  make  a  delicious  tidbit  for 
the  convalescent,  and  are  often  the  first  meat  allowed  a 
patient  by  the  physician. 

The  flesh  of  game,  with  the  exception  of  wild  duck  and 
wild  geese,  is  tender,  contains  less  fat  than  poultry,  is  of 
fine  though  strong  flavor,  and  easy  of  digestion.  Game 
meat  is  usually  of  dark  color,  partridge  and  quail  being  ex- 
ceptions, and  is  usually  cooked  rare.  Venison,  the  flesh  of 
deer,  is  short-fibred,  dark-colored,  highly  savored,  tender, 
and  easy  of  digestion ;  being  highly  savored,  it  often  dis- 
agrees with  those  of  weak  digestion. 

Geese  are  in  market  throughout  the  year,  Massachusetts 
and  Rhode  Island  furnishing  specially  good  ones.  A  goose 
twelve  weeks  old  is  known  as  a  green  goose.  They  may  be 
found  in  market  from  May  to  September.  Young  geese 
which  appear  in  market  September  first  and  continue  through 
December  are  called  goslings.  They  have  been  hatched 
during  May  and  June,  and  then  fatted  for  market. 

Young  ducks,  found  in  market  about  March  first,  are 
called  ducklings.  Canvasback  Ducks  have  gained  a  fine 
reputation  throughout  the  country,  and  are  found  in  mar- 
ket from  the  last  of  November  until  March.  Redhead 
Ducks  are  in  season  two  weeks  earlier,  and  are  about  as 
good  eating  as  Canvasback  Ducks,  and  much  less  in  price. 
The  distinctive  flavor  of  both  is  due  to  the  wild  celery  on 
which  they  feed.  Many  other  kinds  of  ducks  are  found  in 
market  during  the  fall  and  winter.  Examples:  Widgeon, 
Mallard,  Lake  Erie  Teal,  Black  Ducks,  and  Butterballs. 

Fresh  quail  are  in  market  from  October  fifteenth  to  Janu- 
ary first,  the  law  forbidding  their  being  killed  at  any  other 
time  in  the  year.    The  same  is  true  of  partridge,  but  both 


242  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

are  frozen  and  kept  in  cold  storage  several  months.  Cali- 
fornia sends  frozen  quail  in  large  numbers  to  Eastern  mar- 
kets. Grouse  {prairie  chicken)  are  always  obtainable,  — 
fresh  ones  in  the  fall;  later,  those  kept  in  cold  storage. 
Plover  may  be  bought  from  April  until  December. 

To  Select  Poultry  and  Game.  A  cliicken  is  known  by 
soft  feet,  smooth  skin,  and  soft  cartilage  at  end  of  breast- 
bone. An  abundance  of  pinfeathers  always  indicates  a 
young  bird,  while  the  presence  of  long  hairs  denotes  age.  In 
2^  fowl  the  feet  have  become  hard  and  dry  with  coarse  scales, 
and  cartilage  at  end  of  breastbone  has  ossified.  Cock  turkeys 
are  usually  better  eating  than  hen  turkeys,  unless  hen  turkey 
is  young,  small,  and  plump.  A  good  turkey  should  be 
plump,  have  smooth  dark  legs,  and  cartilage  at  end  of  breast- 
bone soft  and  pliable.  Good  geese  abound  in  pinfeathers. 
Small  birds  should  be  plump,  have  soft  feet  and  pliable  bills. 

To  Dress  and  Clean  Poultry.  Remove  hairs  and  down 
by  holding  the  bird  over  a  flame  (from  gas,  alcohol,  or  burn- 
ing paper)  and  constantly  changing  position  until  all  parts 
of  surface  have  been  exposed  to  flame ;  this  is  known  as 
singeing.  Cut  off  the  head  and  draw  out  pinfeathers,  using 
a  small  pointed  knife.  Cut  through  the  skin  around  the  leg 
one  and  one-half  inches  below  the  leg  joint,  care  being  taken 
not  to  cut  tendons ;  place  leg  at  this  cut  over  edge  of  board, 
press  downward  to  snap  the  bone,  then  take  foot  in  right 
hand,  holding  bird  firmly  in  left  hand,  and  pull  off  foot,  and 
with  it  the  tendons.  In  old  birds  the  tendons  must  be  drawn 
separately,  which  is  best  accomplished  by  using  a  steel 
skewer.  Make  an  incision  through  skin  below  breastbone, 
just  large  enough  to  admit  the  hand.  With  the  hand  remove 
entrails,  gizzard,  heart,  and  liver;  the  last  three  named  con- 
stitute what  is  known  as  giblets.  The  gall  bladder,  lying  on 
the  under  surface  of  the  right  lobe  of  the  liver,  is  removed 
"with  liver,  and  great  care  must  be  taken  that  it  is  not  broken, 
as  a  small  quantity  of  the  bile  which  it  contains  would  im- 
part a  bitter  flavor  to  the  parts  with  which  it  came  in  contact. 
Enclosed  by  the  ribs,  on  either  side  of  backbone,  may  be 
found  the  lungs,  of  spongy  consistency  and  red  color.  Care 
must  be  taken  that  every  part  of  them  is  removed.    Kidneys, 


POUIiTRT  AND  GAUB  243 

lying  in  the  hollow  near  end  of  backbone,  must  also  be  re- 
moved. By  introducing  first  two  fingers  under  skin  close  to 
neck,  the  windpipe  may  be  easily  found  and  withdrawn  ;  also 
the  crop,  which  will  he  found  adhering  to  skin  close  to  breast. 
Draw  down  neck  skin,  and  cut  off  neck  close  to  body,  leav- 
ing skin  long  enough  to  fasten  under  the  back.  Remove  oil 
bag,  and  wash  bird  by  allowing  cold  water  to  run  through  it, 
not  allowing  bird  to  soak  in  cold  water.  Wipe  inside  and 
outside,  looking  carefully  to  see  that  everything  has  been 
withdrawn.  If  there  is  disagreeable  odor,  suggesting  that 
fowl  may  have  been  kept  too  long,  clean  at  once,  wash  inside 
and  out  with  soda  water,  and  sprinkle  inside  with  charcoal 
and  place  some  under  wings. 

Poultry  dressed  at  market  seldom  have  tendons  removed 
unless  so  ordered.  It  is  always  desirable  to  have  them  with- 
drawn, as  they  become  hard  and  bony  during  cooking.  It  is 
the  practice  of  market-men  to  cut  a  gash  through  the  skin, 
to  easier  reach  crop  and  windpipe.  This  gash  must  be  sewed 
before  stuffing,  and  causes  the  bird  to  look  less  attractive 
when  cooked. 

To  Cut  up  a  Fowl.  Singe,  draw  out  pinfeathers,  cut  off 
head,  remove  tendons  and  oil  bag.  Cut  through  skin  be- 
tween leg  and  body  close  to  body,  bend  back  leg  (thus  break- 
ing ligaments),  cut  through  flesh,  and  separate  at  joint. 
Separate  the  upper  part  of  leg,  second  joint,  from  lower  part 
of  leg,  drumstick,  as  leg  is  separated  from  body.  Remove 
wing  by  cutting  through  skin  and  flesh  around  upper  wing 
joint  which  lies  next  to  body,  then  disjoint  from  body.  Cut 
off  tip  of  wing  and  separate  wing  at  middle  joint.  Remove 
leg  and  wing  from  other  side.  Separate  breast  from  back 
by  cutting  through  skin,  beginning  two  inches  below  breast- 
bone and  passing  knife  between  terminus  of  small  ribs  on 
either  side  and  extending  cut  to  collar-bone.  Before  removing 
entrails,  gizzard,  heart,  liver,  lungs,  kidneys,  crop,  and  wind- 
pipe, observe  their  position,  that  the  anatomy  of  the  bird  may 
be  understood.  The  back*  is  sometimes  divided  by  cutting 
through  the  middle  crosswise.  The  wishbone,  with  adjoin- 
ing meat,  is  frequently  removed,  and  the  breast  meat  may 
be  separated  in  two  parts  by  cutting  through  flesh  close  to 


« 


244  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK   BOOK 

breastbone  with  cleaver.  Wipe  pieces,  excepting  back,  with 
cheese-cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Back  piece  needs  thor- 
ough washing. 

To  Clean  Giblets.  Remove  thin  membrane,  arteries,  veins, 
and  clotted  blood  around  heart.  Separate  gall  bladder  front 
liver,  cutting  off  any  of  liver  that  may  have  a  greenish  tinge. 
Cut  fat  and  membranes  from  gizzard.  Make  a  gash  through 
thickest  part  of  gizzard,  and  cut  as  far  as  inner  lining,  being 
careful  not  to  pierce  it.  Remove  the  inner  sack  and  discard. 
Wash  giblets  and  cook  until  tender,  with  neck  and  tips  of 
wings,  putting  them  in  cold  water  and  heating  water  quickly 
that  some  of  the  flavor  may  be  drawn  out  into  stock,  which 
is  to  be  used  for  making  gravy. 

To  Stuff  Poultry.  Put  stuffing  by  spoonfuls  in  neck  end, 
using  enough  to  sufficiently  fill  the  skin,  that  bird  may  look 
plump  when  served.  Where  cracker  stuffing  is  used,  allow- 
ance must  be  made  for  the  swelling  of  crackers,  otherwise 
skin  may  burst  during  cooking.  Put  remaining  stuffing  in 
body;  if  the  body  is  full,  sew  skin;  if  not  full,  bring  skin 
together  with  a  skewer. 

To  Truss  Fowl.  Draw  thighs  close  to  body  and  hold  by 
inserting  a  steel  skewer  under  middle  joint  running  it 
through  body,  coming  out  under  middle  joint  on  other  side. 
Cut  piece  three-fourths  inch  wide  from  neck  skin,  and  with 
it  fasten  legs  together  at  ends;  or  cross  drumsticks,  tie 
securely  with  a  long  string,  and  fasten  to  tail.  Place  wings 
close  to  body  and  hold  them  by  inserting  a  second  skewer 
through  wing,  body,  and  wing  on  opposite  side.  Draw  neck 
skin  under  back  and  fasten  with  a  small  wooden  skewer. 
Turn  bird  on  its  breast.  Cross  string  attached  to  tail  piece 
and  draw  it  around  each  end  of  lower  skewer ;  again  cross 
string  and  draw  around  each  end  of  upper  skewer;  fasten 
string  in  a  knot  and  cut  off  ends.  In  birds  that  are  not 
stuffed  legs  are  often  passed  through  incisions  cut  in  body 
under  bones  near  tail. 

To  Dress  Birds  for  Broiling.  Singe,  wipe,  and  with  a 
sharp-pointed  knife,  beginning  at  back  of  neck,  make  a  cut 
through  backbone  the  entire  length  of  bird.  Lay  open  the 
bird  and  remove  contents  from  inside.    Cut  out  rib  bones 


POULTRY   AND   GAME  245 

on  either  side  of  backbone,  remove  from  breastbone,  then 
cut  through  tendons  at  joints. 

To  Fillet  a  Chicken.  Remove  skin  from  breast,  and  with 
a  small  sharp  knife  begin  at  end  of  collar-bone  and  cut 
through  flesh,  following  close  to  wish  and  breast  bones  the 
entire  length  of  meat.  Raise  flesh  with  fingers,  and  with 
knife  free  the  piece  of  meat  from  bones  which  lie  under  it. 
Cut  meat  away  from  wing  joint ;  this  solid  piece  of  breast  is 
meat  known  as  Si  fillet.  This  meat  is  easily  separated  in  two 
parts.  The  upper,  larger  partis  called  the  large  fillet;  the 
lower  part  the  mignon  fillet.  The  tough  skin  on  the  outside 
of  large  fillet  should  be  removed,  also  the  sinew  from  mignon 
fillet.  To  remove  tough  skin,  place  large  fillet  on  a  board, 
upper  side  down,  make  an  incision  through  flesh  at  top  of 
fillet,  and  cut  entire  length  of  fillet,  holding  knife  as  close  to 
skin  as  possible.     Trim  edges,  that  fillet  may  look  shapely. 

Broiled  Chicken 

Dress  for  broiling,  following  directions  on  page  244. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  in  a  well-greased 
broiler.  Broil  twenty  minutes  over  a  clear  fire,  watching 
carefully  and  turning  broiler  so  that  all  parts  may  be  equally 
browned.  The  flesh  side  must  be  exposed  to  the  fire  the 
greater  part  of  time,  as  the  skin  side  will  brown  quickly. 
Remove  to  a  hot  platter,  spread  with  soft  butter,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chickens  are  so  apt  to  burn 
while  broiling  that  many  prefer  to  partially  cook  in  oven. 
Place  chicken  in  dripping-pan,  skin  side  down,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dot  over  with  butter,  and  bake  fifteen  min- 
utes in  hot  oven;  then  broil  to  finish  cooking.  Guinea 
chickens  are  becoming  popular  cooked  in  this  way. 

Boiled  Fowl 
Dress,  clean,  and  truss  a  four-pound  fowl,  tie  in  cheese- 
cloth, place  on  trivet  in  a  kettle,  half  surround  with  boiling 
water,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  turning  occa- 
sionally. Add  salt  the  last  hour  of  cooking.  Serve  with 
Egg,  Oyster,  or  Celery  Sauce.  It  is  not  desirable  to  stufE 
a  boiled  fowL 


246  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Boiled  Capon  with  Cauliflower  Sauce 
Prepare  and   cook   a  capon   same  as  Boiled  Fowl,   and 
serve  surrounded  with  Cauliflower  Sauce  and  garnished  with 
parsley. 

Chicken  k  la  Providence 
Prepare  and  boil  a  chicken,  following  recipe  for  Boiled 
Fowl.  The  liquor  should  be  reduced  to  two  cups,  and  used 
for  making  sauce,  with  two  tablespoons  each  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Add  to  sauce  one-half  cup  each  of  cooked 
carrot  (cut  in  fancy  shapes)  and  green  peas,  one  teaspoon 
lemon  juice,  yolks  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Place  chicken 
on  hot  platter,  surround  with  sauce,  and  sprinkle  chicken 
and  sauce  with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Stewed  Chicken  with  Onions 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving,  two  chickens. 
Cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  with  eighteen  tiny  young 
onions.  Remove  chicken  to  serving-dish  as  soon  as  tender, 
and  when  onions  are  soft  drain  from  stock  and  reduce  stock 
to  one  and  one-half  cups.  Make  sauce  of  three  tablespoons 
butter,  four  tablespoons  flour,  stock,  and  one-half  cup  heavy 
cream ;  then  add  yolks  three  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon 
juice  to  taste.    Pour  sauce  over  chicken  and  onions. 

Chicken  k  la  Stanley 
Melt  one- fourth  cup  butter,  add  one  large  onion  thinly 
sliced,  and  two  broilers  cut  in  pieces  for  serving;  cover, 
and  cook  slowly  ten  minutes ;  then  add  one  cup  Chicken 
Stock,  and  cook  until  meat  is  tender.  Remove  chickens, 
rub  stock  and  onions  through  a  sieve,  and  add  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  each  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add 
cream  to  make  sauce  of  the  right  consistency.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  chicken  on  serving  dish,  pour 
around  sauce,  and  garnish  dish  with  bananas  cut  in  diagonal 
slices  dipped  in  flour  and  sauted  in  butter. 

Chili  Con  Carni 
Clean,  Binge,  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving,  two  young 
chickens.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  saute  in  batter. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  247 

Remove  seeds  and  veins  from  eight  red  peppers,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  until  soft ;  mash,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Add  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  onion  finely  chopped, 
two  cloves  of  garlic  finely  chopped,  the  chicken,  and  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Cook  until  chicken  is  tender.  Remove  to 
serving  dish,  and  thicken  sauce  with  three  tablespoons  each 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together ;  there  should  be  one  and 
one-half  cups  sauce.  Canned  pimentoes  may  be  used  in 
place  of  red  peppers. 

Roast  Chicken 
Dress,  clean,  stuff,  and  truss  a  chicken.  Place  on  its  back 
on  rack  in  a  dripping-pan,  rub  entire  surface  with  salt,  and 
spread  breast  and  legs  with  three  tablespoons  butter,  rubbed 
until  creamy  and  mixed  with  two  tablespoons  flour.  Dredge 
bottom  of  pan  with  flour.  Place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  when 
flour  is  well  browned,  reduce  the  heat,  then  baste.  Continue 
basting  every  ten  minutes  until  chicken  is  cooked.  For 
basting,  use  one-fourth  cup  butter,  melted  in  two- thirds  cup 
boiling  water,  and  after  this  is  gone,  use  fat  in  pan,  and 
when  necessary  to  prevent  flour  burning,  add  one  cup  boiling 
water.  During  cooking,  turn  chicken  frequently,  that  it 
may  brown  evenly.  If  a  thick  crust  is  desired,  dredge  bird 
with  flour  two  or  three  times  during  cooking.  If  a  glazed 
surface  is  preferred,  spread  bird  with  butter,  omitting  flour, 
and  do  not  dredge  during  baking.  When  breast  meat  is 
tender,  bird  is  sufficiently  cooked.  A  four-pound  chicken 
requires  about  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Stuffing  I 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs  %  cup  boiling  water 

1^  cup  butter  Salt  and  Pepper 

Powdered  sage,  summer  savory,  or  marjoram 

Melt  butter  in  water,  and  pour  over  crackers,  to  which 
seasonings  have  been  added. 

Stuffing  n 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs  Salt 

^  cup  melted  butter  Pepper 

Sage  or  Poultry  Seasoning  1  cup  scalded  milk 

Make  same  as  Stufllng  JL 


248  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

Gravy 

Pour  off  liquid  in  pan  in  which  chicken  has  been  roasted. 
From  liquid  skim  off  four  tablespoons  fat ;  return  fat  to  pan, 
and  brown  with  four  tablespoons  flour ;  add  two  cups  stock 
in  which  giblets,  neck,  and  tips  of  wings  have  been  cooked. 
Cook  five  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  strain. 
The  remaining  fat  may  be  used,  in  place  of  butter,  for  fry- 
ing potatoes,  or  for  basting  when  roasting  another  chicken. 

For  Giblet  Gravy,  add  to  the  above,  giblets  (heart,  liver, 
and  gizzard)  finely  chopped. 

Braised  Chicken 

Dress,  clean,  and  truss  a  four-pound  fowl.  Try  out  two 
slices  fat  salt  pork  cut  one-fourth  inch  thick ;  remove  scraps, 
and  add  to  fat  five  slices  carrot  cut  in  small  cubes,  one- 
half  sliced  onion,  two  sprigs  thyme,  one  sprig  parsley,  and 
one  bay  leaf,  then  cook,  ten  minutes;  add  two  tablespoons 
butter,  and  fry  fowl,  turning  often  until  surface  is  well 
browned.  Place  on  trivet  in  a  deep  pan,  pour  over  fat,  and 
add  two  cups  boiling  water  or  Chicken  Stock.  Cover,  and 
bake  in  slow  oven  until  tender,  basting  often,  and  adding 
more  water  if  needed.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  from  stock 
in  pan,  first  straining  and  removing  the  fat. 

Chicken  Fricassee 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  a  fowl.  Put  in  a  kettle,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  adding 
salt  to  water  when  chicken  is  about  half  done.  Remove 
from  water,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  saute  in  butter  or  pork  fat.  Arrange  chicken 
on  pieces  of  dry  toast  placed  on  a  hot  platter,  having  wings 
and  second  joints  opposite  each  other,  breast  in  centre  of 
platter,  and  drumsticks  crossed  just  below  second  joints. 
Pour  around  White  or  Brown  Sauce.  Reduce  stock  to 
two  cups,  strain,  and  remove  the  fat.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  four  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on 
gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  stock.  Just  before  serv- 
vng,  add  one-half  cup  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ; 


POULTKY  AND  GAME  249 

or  make  a  sauce  by  browning  butter  and  flour  and  adding 
two  cups  stock,  then 'seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 

FowlSj  which  are  always  made  tender  by  long  cooking, 
are  frequently  utilized  in  this  way.  If  chickens  are  em- 
ployed, they  are  sauted  without  previous  boiling,  and  al- 
lowed to  simmer  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  the  sauce. 

Fried  Chicken 
Fried   chicken  is  prepared  and  cooked  same  as  Chicken 
Fricassee,   with  Brown  Sauce,  chicken  always  being  used, 
never  fowl. 

Fried  Chicken  (Southern  Style) 

Clean,  singe,  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving,  two  young 
chickens.  Plunge  in  cold  water,  drain  but  do  not  wipe. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  coat  thickly  with  flour, 
having  as  much  flour  adhere  to  chicken  as  possible.  Try 
out  one  pound  fat  salt  pork  cut  in  pieces,  and  cook  chicken 
slowly  in  fat  until  tender  and  well  browned.  Serve  with 
White  Sauce  made  of  half  milk  and  half  ^ream. 

Maryland  Chicken 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  two  young  chickens.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  soft  crumbs,  place 
in  a  well-greased  dripping-pan,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven,  basting  after  first  five  minutes  of  cooking  with 
one-third  cup  melted  butter.  Arrange  on  platter  and  pour 
over  two  cups  Cream  Sauce. 

Blanketed  Chicken 

Split  and  clean  two  broilers.  Place  in  dripping-pan  and 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  two  tablespoons  green  pepper 
finely  chopped,  and  one  tablespoon  chives  finely  cut.  Cover 
with  strips  of  bacon  thinly  cut,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
chicken  is  tender.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  pour  around 
the  following  sauce : 

To  three  tablespoons  fat,  taken  from  dripping-pan,  add 
four  tablespoons  flour  and  one  and  one-half  cups  thin  cream, 
or  half  chicken  stock  and  half  cream  may  be  used.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 


250  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chicken  k  la  Merango 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  a  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  salt  pork  fat. 
Put  in  a  stewpan,  cover  with  sauce,  and  cook  slowly  until 
chicken  is  tender.  Add  one-half  can  mushroons  cut  in  quar- 
ters, and  cook  five  minutes.  Arrange  chicken  on  serving 
dish  and  pour  around  sauce ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Sauce 

}^  cup  butter  2  cups  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  ^  cup  stewed  and  strained 

onion  tomato 

1  slice  carrot,  cut  in  cubes  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  turnip,  cut  in  cubes  %  teaspoon  pepper 

^  cup  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 

Cook  butter  five  minutes  with  vegetables.  Add  flour, 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and  cook  until  flour  is  well 
browned.  Add  gradually  water  and  tomato ;  cook  five 
minutes,  then  strain. 

Baked  Chicken 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  two  chickens.  Place  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan, sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  fiour, 
and  dot  over  with  one-fourth  cup  butter.  Bake  thirty  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven,  basting  every  five  minutes  with  one- 
fourth  cup  butter  melted  in  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water. 
Serve  with  gravy  made  by  using  fat  in  pan,  one-fourth  cup 
flour,  one  cup  each  Chicken  Stock  and  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 

Planked  Chicken 
^  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

Red  pepper     1  ^  tablespoon  onion 

Green  pepper  I        each,  finely  ^  clove  garlic,  finely 

Parsley  J       -  chopped  chopped 

Duchess  potatoes  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

8  mushroom  caps 

Cream  the  butter,  add  pepper,  parsley,  onion,  garlic,  and 
lemon  juice.  Split  a  young  chicken  as  for  broiling,  place  in 
dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  over  with 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  261 

butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  nearly  cooked.  Butter 
plank,  arrange  a  border  of  Duchess  Potatoes  (see  p.  312) 
close  to  edge  of  plank,  and  remove  chicken  to  plank.  Clean, 
peel,  and  saute  mushroom  caps,  place  on  chicken,  spread 
over  prepared  butter,  and  put  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  brown 
potatoes  and  finish  cooking  chicken.     Serve  on  the  plank. 

Qhicken  Gumbo 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  a  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  pork  fat.  Fry 
one-half  finely  chopped  onion  in  fat  remaining  in  frying-pan. 
Add  four  cups  sliced  okra,  sprig  of  parsley,  and  one-fourth 
red  pepper  finely  chopped,  and  cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  to  chicken,  with  one  and  one-half  cups  tomato,  three 
cups  boiling  water,  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt. 
Cook  slowly  until  chicken  is  tender,  then  add  one  cup  boiled 
rice. 

Chicken  Stew 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  a  fowl.  Put  in  a  stewpan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  adding 
one-half  tablespoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper 
when  fowl  is  about  half  cooked.  Thicken  stock  with  one- 
third  cup  flour  diluted  with  enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily. 
Serve  with  Dumplings.  If  desired  richer,  butter  may  be 
added. 

Chicken  Pie 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  two  fowls  Or  chickens.  Put 
in  a  stewpan  with  one-half  onion,  sprig  of  parsley,  and 
bit  of  bay  leaf ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly 
until  tender.  When  chicken  is  half  cooked,  add  one-half 
tablespoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Remove 
chicken,  strain  stock,  skim  off  fat,  and  then  cook  until 
reduced  to  four  cups.  Thicken  stock  with  one-third  cup 
flour  diluted  with  enough  cold  water  to  ponr  easily.  Place 
a  small  cup  in  centre  of  baking-dish,  arrange  around  it 
pieces  of  chicken,  removing  some  of  the  larger  bones ;  pour 
over  gravy,  and  cool.  Cover  with  pie-crust  in  which 
several  incisions  have  been  made,  that  |;here  may  be  an  out- 


252  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

let  for  escape  of  steam  and  gases.  Wet  edge  of  crust  and 
put  around  a  rim,  having  rim  come  close  to  edge.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  crust  is  well  risen  and  browned. 
Roll  remnants  of  pastry  and  cut  iu  diamond-shaped  pieces, 
bake,  and  serve  with  pie  when  -Reheated.  If  puff  paste  is 
used,  it  is  best  to  bake  top  separatelj^ 

Chicken  Curry 

3  lb.  chicken  1  tablespoon  curry  poyir^der 

%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  onions  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

Clean,  dress,  and  cut  chicken  in  pieces  for  serving.  Put 
butter  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  add  chicken,  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes; then  add  liver  and  gizzard  and  cook  ten  minutes 
longer.  Cut  onions  in  thin  slices,  and  add  to  chicken  with 
curry  powder  and  salt.  Add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover, 
and  simmer  until  chicken  is  tender.  Remove  chicken ;  strain, 
and  thicken  liquor  with  flour  diluted  with  enough  cold  water 
to  pour  easily.  Pour  gravy  over  chicken,  and  serve  with  a 
border  of  rice  or  Turkish  Pilaf. 

Chicken  en  Casserole 

Cut  two  small,  young  chickens  in  pieces  for  serving. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with  melted  butter, 
and  bake  in  a  casserole  dish  twelve  minutes.  Parboil  one- 
third  cup  carrots  cut  in  strips  five  minutes,  drain,  and  fry 
with  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion  and  four  thin 
slices  bacon  cut  in  narrow  strips.  Add  one  and  one-third 
cups  Brown  Sauce  and  two-thirds  cup  potato  balls.  Add  to 
chicken,  with  three  tablespoons  Sherry  wine,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
chicken  is  tender.  If  small  casserole  dishes  are  used  allow 
but  one  chicken  to  each  dish. 

'Breslin  Potted  Chicken 
Dress,  clean,  and  truss  two  broilers.  Put  in  a  casserole  dish, 
brush  over  with  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
put  on  cover,  and  bake  twenty  minutes;  then  add  one  cup 
stock  and  cook  until  chicken  is  tender.  Thicken  stock  with 
one  tablespoon,  each,  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  and 


le'OULTRY   AKD  GAME  253 

add  one-half  cup  cooked  potato  balls,  one-third  cup  canned 
string  beans,  cut  in  small  pieces,  one-third  cup  cooked 
carrot,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  six  sauted  mushroom  caps. 

% 
Jellied  Chicken 

Dress,  clean,  and  cut  up  a  four-pound  fowl.  Put  in  a 
stewpan  with  two  slices  onion,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  cook  Slowly  until  meat  falls  from  bones.  When  half 
cooked,  advi  one-half  tablespoon  salt.  Remove  chicken; 
reduce  stock  to  three-fourths  cup,  strain,  and  skim  off  fat. 
Decorate  bottom  of  a  mould  with  parsley  and  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Pack  in  meat  freed  from  skin  and  bone  and 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  on  stock  and  place 
mould  under  heavy  weight.  Keep  in  a  cold  place  until  Arm. 
In  summer  it  is  necessary  to  add  one  teaspoon  dissolved 
granulated  gelatine  to  stock. 

Chickens'  Livers  with  Madeira  Sauce 

Clean  and  separate  livers,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  butter.  Brown  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and 
when  well  browned  add  gradually  one  cup  Brown  Stock; 
then  add  two  tablespoons  Madeira  wine,  and  reheat  livers 
in  sauce. 

Chickens'  Livers  with  Bacon 

Clean  livers  and  cut  each  liver  in  six  pieces.  Wrap  a 
thin  slice  of  bacon  around  each  piece  and  fasten  with  a 
small  skewer.  Put  in  a  broiler,  place  over  a  dripping-pan, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  bacon  is  crisp,  turning  once 
during  cooking. 

Saut6d  Chickens'  Livers 

Cut  one  slice  bacon  in  small  pieces  and  cook  five  minutes 
with  two  tablespoons  butter.  Remove  bacon,  add  one 
finely  chopped  shallot,  and  fry  two  minutes;  then  add  six 
chickens*  liters  cleaned  and  separated,  and  cook  two  min- 
utes. Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  Brown  Stock, 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  one-fourth  cup  sliced  mush- 


254  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

rooms.     Cook  two  minutes,  turn  into  a  serving  dish,  and 
sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Chickens'  Livers  with  Curry- 
Clean  and  separate  livers.  Dip  in  seasoned  crumbs,  egg, 
and  crumbs,  and  saute  in  butter.  Remove  livers,  and  to 
fat  in  pan  add  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  onion,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  two  table- 
spoons flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  curry  powder 
and  one  cup  stock.  Strain  sauce  over  livers,  and  serve 
around  livers  Rice  Timbales. 

Boiled  Turkey- 
Prepare   and  cook   same   as  Boiled  Fowl.      Serve   with 
Oyster  or  Celery  Sauce. 

Roast  Turkey 

Dress,  clean,  stuff,  and  truss  a  ten-pound  turkey  (see 
pages  242-244).  Place  on  its  side  on  rack  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  rub  entire  surface  with  salt,  and  spread  breast,  legs, 
and  wings  with  one-third  cup  butter,  rubbed  until  creamy 
and  mixed  with  one-fourth  cup  flour.  Dredge  bottom  of  pan 
with  flour.  Place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  when  flour  on  turkey 
begins  to  brown,  reduce  heat,  and  baste  every  fifteen  minutes 
until  turkey  is  cooked,  which  will  require  about  three  hours. 
For  basting  use  one-half  cup  butter  melted  in  one-half  cup 
boiling  water  and  after  this  is  used  baste  with  fat  in  pan. 
Pour  water  in  pan  during  the  cooking  as  needed  to  prevent 
flour  from  burning.  During  cooking  turn  turkey  frequently, 
that  it  may  brown  evenly.  If  turkey  is  browning  too  fast, 
cover  with  buttered  paper  to  prevent  burning.  Remove 
string  and  skewers  before  serving.  Garnish  with  parsley, 
or  celery  tips,  or  curled  celery  and  rings  and  discs  of  carrots 
strung  on  flne  wire. 

For  stuflang,  use  double  the  quantities  given  in  recipes 
under  Roast  Chicken.  If  stuffing  is  to  be  served  cold, 
add  one  beaten  egg.  Turkey  is  often  roasted  with  Chestnut 
Stuffing,  Oyster  Stuffing,  or  Turkey  Stuffing  (Swedish  Style). 


POULTBY  AND  6AMB  256 

Chestnut  StofiSng 

3  cups  French  chestnuts  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

y^  cup  butter  y^  cup  cream 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

Shell  and  blanch  chestnuts.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
nntil  soft.  Drain  and  mash,  using  a  potato  ricer.  Add 
one-half  the  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  cream.  Melt  remain- 
ing butter,  mix  with  cracker  crumbs,  then  combine  mixtures. 

Oyster  Stufifing 
8  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

y^  cup  melted  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

1  pint  oysters 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  add  oysters,  cleaned 
and  drained  from  their  liquor. 

Turkey  Stuffing  (Swedish  Style) 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  \^  cup  English  walnut  meats, 
%  cup  melted  butter  broken  in  pieces 

^  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  Salt  and  pepper 

in  pieces  Sage 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given. 

Gravy 
Pour  off  liquid  in  pan  in  which  turkey  has  been  roasted. 
From  liquid  skim  off  six  tablespoons  fat ;  return  fat  to  pan 
and  brown  with  six  tablespoons  flour;  pour  on  gradually 
three  cups  stock  in  which  giblets,  neck,  and  tips  of  wingg 
have  been  cooked,  or  use  liquor  left  in  pan.  Cook  five 
minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  strain.  For  Gib!et 
Gravy  add  to  the  above,  giblets  (heart,  liver,  and  gizzard) 
finely  chopped- 

Chestnut  Gravy 

To  two  cups  thin  Turkey  Gravy  add  three-fourths  cup 
cooked  and  mashed  chesnuts. 

To  Carve  Turkey 

Bird  should  be  placed  on  back,  with  legs  at  right  of 
pl&tter  for  carving.     Introduce  carving  fork  across  breast 


256  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

bone,  hold  firmly  in  left  hand,  and  with  carving  knife  in 
right  hand  cut  through  skin  between  leg  and  body,  close  to 
body.  With  knife  pull  back  leg  and  disjoint  from  body. 
Then  cut  off  wing.  Remove  leg  and  wing  from  other  side. 
Separate  second  joints  from  drum-sticks  and  divide  wingg 
at  joints.  Carve  breast  meat  in  thin  crosswise  slices. 
Under  back  on  either  side  of  backbone  may  be  found  two 
small,  oyster-shaped  pieces  of  dark  meat,  which  are  dainty 
tidbits.  Chicken  and  fowl  are  carved  in  the  same  way. 
For  a  small  family  carve  but  one  side  of  a  turkey,  that  re- 
mainder may  be  left  in  better  condition  for  second  serving. 

Roast  Goose  -with  Potato  Stuffing 

Singe,  remove  pinfeathers,  wash  and  scrub  a  goose  in 
hot  soapsuds  ;  then  draw  (which  is  removing  inside  con- 
tents). Wash  in  cold  water  and  wipe.  Stuff,  truss,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  six  thin  strips  fat  salt  pork 
over  breast.  Place  on  rack  in  dripping-pan,  put  in  hot  oven, 
and  bake  two  hours.  Baste  every  fifteen  minutes  with  fat 
in  pan.  Remove  pork  last  half-hour  of  cooking.  Place  on 
platter,  cut  string,  and  remove  string  and  skewers.  Garnish 
with  watercress  and  bright  red  cranberries.  Serve  with 
Apple  Sauce. 

Potato  Stuffing 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potato  %  cup  butter 

11^  cups  soft  stale  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

1^  cup  finely  chopped  fat  salt  pork  1%  teaspoons  salt 

1  finely  chopped  onion  1  teaspoon  sage 

Add  to  potato,  bread  crumbs,  butter,  egg,  salt,  and  sage ; 
then  add  pork  and  onion. 

Goose  Stuffing  (Chestnut) 

%  tablespoon  finely  chopped  1  cup  chestnut  puree 

shallot  3^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  butter  i^  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

^^  lb.  sausage  meat  parsley 

12  canned  mushrooms,  finely  24  French  chestnuts  cooked 
chopped  and  left  whole 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  shallot  with  butter  five  minutes,  add  sausage  meat, 
and  cook  two  minutes,  then  add  mushrooms,  chestnut  puree, 


Roast  Turkey  garnished  for  servikg.  —  Page  254- 


Duck;  stuffed  and  trussed  for  roasting.  —  Page  257. 


Stuffed  Egg  Plant.  —  Page  293. 


PuBiE  or  Spikach.  —  Page  SOO. 


POULTRY  AND   GAME  257 

parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  to  boiling-point,  add 
bread  crumbs  and  whole  chestnuts.  Cool  mixture  before 
stuffing  goose. 

To  Truss  a  Goose 

A  goose,  having  short  legs,  is  trussed  differently  from 
chicken,  fowl,  and  turkey.  After  inserting  skewers,  wind 
string  twice  around  one  leg  bone,  then  around  other  leg 
bone,  having  one  inch  space  of  string  between  legs.  Draw 
legs  with  both  ends  of  string  close  to  back,  cross  string 
under  back,  then  fasten  around  skewers  and  tie  in  a  knot. 

Roast  "Wild  Duck 

Dress  and  clean  a  wild  duck  and  truss  as  goose.  Place  on 
rack  in  dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
cover  breast  with  two  very  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork.  Bake 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven,  basting  e\ery 
five  minutes  with  fat  in  pan ;  cut  string  and  remove  string 
and  skewers.  Serve  with  Orange  or  Olive  Sauce.  Currant 
jelly  should  accompany  a  duck  co'irse.  Domestic  ducks 
should  always  be  well  cooked,  requiring  little  more  than  twice 
the  time  allowed  for  wild  ducks. 

Ducks  are  sometimes  stuffed  with  apples,  pared,  cored, 
and  cut  in  quarters,  or  three  small  onions  may  be  put  in  body 
of  duck  to  improve  flavor.  Neither  apples  nor  onions  are  to 
be  served.  If  a  stuffing  to  be  eaten  is  desired,  cover  pieces 
of  dry  bread  with  boiling  water ;  as  soon  as  bread  has 
absorbed  water,  press  out  the  water  ;  season  bread  with  salt, 
pepper,  melted  butter,  finely  chopped  onion,  or  use 

Duck  Stuffing  (Peanut) 

^  cup  cracker  crumbs  '  2  tablespoons  butter 

1^  cup  shelled  peanuts,  finely  Few  drops  onion  juice 

chopped  Salt  and  pepper 

}4  cup  heavy  cream  Cayenne 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given. 

Braised  Duck 
Tough  ducks  are  sometimes  steamed  one  hour,  and  then 
braised  in  same  manner  as  chicken. 

17 


258  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Broiled  Quail 
Follow  recipe  for  Broiling  Chicken,  allowing  eight  min- 
utes for  cooking.     Serve  on  pieces  of  toast,  and  garnish 
with  parsley  and  thin  slices  of  lemon.     Currant  jelly  or  Rice 
Croquettes  with  Jelly  should  accompany  this  course. 

Roast  Quail 

Dress,  clean,  lard,  and  truss  a  quail.  Bake  same  as 
Larded  Grouse,  allowing  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  for  cook- 
ing. 

Larded  Grouse 

Clean,  remove  pinions,  and  if  it  be  tough  the  skin  covering 
breast.  Lard  breast  and  insert  two  lardoons  in  each  leg. 
Truss,  and  place  on  trivet  in  small  shallow  pan;  rub  with 
salt,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
surround  with  trimmings  of  fat  salt  pork.  Bake  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  three  times. 
Arrange  on  platter,  remove  string  and  skewers,  pour  around 
Bread  Sauce,  and  sprinkle  bird  and  sauce  with  coarse  brown 
bread  crumbs.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Breast  of  Grouse  Saut6  Chasseur 
Remove  breasts  from  pair  of  grouse,  and  saute  in  butter. 
When  partially  cooked,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Break 
carcasses  in  pieces,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  carrot,  celery, 
onion,  parsley,  and  bay  leaf,  and  cook  until  stock  is  reduced 
to  three-fourths  cup.  Arrange  grouse  on  a  serving  dish,  and 
pour  around  a  sauce  made  of  three  tablespoons  butter,  four 
and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  stock  made  from  grouse,  and 
three-fourths  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon  juice,  and  add  one  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley,  and  one-half  cup  canned  mushrooms 
cut  in  slices. 

Broiled  or  Roasted  Plover 
Plover  is  broiled  or  roasted  same  as  quail. 

Potted  Pigeons 
Clean,  stuff,  and  truss  six  pigeons,  place  upright  in  a  stew- 
pan,  and  add  one  quart  boiling  water  in  which  celery  has 


POULTRY  AND   GAME  259 

been  cooked.  Cover,  and  cook  slowly  three  hours  or  until 
tender;  or  cook  in  oven  in  a  covered  earthen  dish.  Remove 
from  water,  cool  slightly,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  entire  surface  in  pork  fat. 
Make  a  sauce  with  one -fourth  cup,  each,  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together  and  stock  remaining  in  pan  ;  there  should  be 
two  cups.  Place  each  bird  on  a  slice  of  dry  toast,  and  pour 
gravy  over  all.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Stuffing 

1  cup  hot  riced  potatoes  1  tablespoon  butter 

^  teaspoon  salt  y^  cup  soft  stale  bread 
3^  teaspoon  pepper  crumbs  soaked  in  some 

}/^  teaspoon  marjoram  of  the  celery  water  and 

or  summer  savory  wrung  in  cheese-cloth 

Few  drops  union  juice  Yolk  1  ^%g 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 

Broiled  Venison  Steak 

Follow  recipe  for  Broiled  Beefsteak.  Serve  with  Maitre 
d'H6tel  Butter.     Venison  should  always  be  cooked  rare. 

Venison  Steaks,  Sauted,  Cumberland  Sauce 

Cut  venison  steaks  in  circular  pieces  and  use  trimmings 
for  the  making  of  stock.  Saute  steaks  in  hot  buttered  frying- 
pan  and  serve  with 

Cumberland  Sauce.  Soak  two  tablespoons  citron,  cut  in 
julienne-shaped  pieces,  two  tablespoons  giaced  cherries,  and 
one  tablespoon  Sultana  raisins,  in  Port  wine  for  several 
hours.  Drain  and  cook  fruit  five  minutes  in  one-third  cup 
Port  wine.  Add  one-half  tumbler  currant  jelly,  and,  as  soon 
as  jelly  is  dissolved,  add  one  and  one-third  cups  Brown  Sauce, 
and  two  tablespoons  shredded  almonds. 

Venison  Steak,  Chestnut  Sance 

Wipe  steak,  sprinkte  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  on  a 
greased  broiler,  and  broil  five  minutes.  Bemove  to  hot  plat-^ 
ter  and  pour  over 


260  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chestnut  Sauce.  Fry  one-half  onion  and  six  slices  carrot, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  in  two  tablespoons  butter,  five  minutes^ 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned;  then 
add  one  and  one-half  cups  Brown  Stock,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  eight  peppercorns,  and  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Let  simmer  twenty  minutes,  strain,  then  add  three  table- 
spoons Madeira  wine,  one  cup  boiled  French  chestnuts,  and 
one  tablespoon  butter. 

Venison  Cutlets 

Clean  and  trim  slices  of  venison  cut  from  loin.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  or  olive 
oil,  and  roll  in  soft  stale  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  broiler 
and  broil  five  minutes,  or  saute  in  butter.  Serve  with  Port 
Wine  Sauce. 

Roast  Leg  of  Venison 
Prepare  and  cook  as  Roast  Lamb,  allowing  less  time  that 
it  may  be  cooked  rare. 

Saddle  of  Venison 

Clean  and  lard  a  saddle  of  venison.  Cook  same  as  Saddle 
of  Mutton.     Serve  with  Currant  Jelly  Sauce. 

Belgian  Hare  k  la  Maryland 

Follow  directions  for  Chicken  k  la  Maryland  (see  p.  249), 
Bake  forty  minutes,  basting  with  bacon  fat  in  place  of 
butter. 

Belgian  Hare,  Sour  Cream  Sauce 

Clean  and  split  a  hare.  Lard  back  and  hind  legs,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  eight  slices  carrot  cut  in 
small  pieces  and  one-half  small  onion  in  two  tablespoons 
bacon  fat  five  minutes.  Add  one  cup  Brown  Stock,  and 
pour  around  hare  in  pan.  Bake  forty-five  minutes,  basting 
often.  Add  one  cup  heavy  cream  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  and  baste  every  five  minutes. 
Remove  to  serving  dish,  strain  sauce,  thicken,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  around  hare. 


WARMING   OVER   POULTRY   AND   GAME!  261 

WAYS  OF  WARMING  OVER  POULTRY  AND  GAME 

Creamed  Chicken 

2  cups  cold  cooked  chicken,  2  cups  White  Sauce  II 

cut  in  dice  )^  teaspoon  celery  salt 

Heat  chicken  dice  in  sauce,  to  which  celery  salt  has  been 
added. 

Creamed  Chicken  "with  Mushrooms 

Add  to  Creamed  Chicken  one- fourth  cup  mushrooms  cut 
in  slices. 

Chicken  with  Potato  Border 
Serve  Creamed  Chicken  in  Potato  Border. 
Chicken  in  Baskets 

To  three  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  three  tablespoons 
butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  of  tliree  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
and  enough  milk  to  moisten.  Shape  in  form  of  small  bas- 
kets, using  a  pastry-bag  and  tube.  Brush  over  with  white 
of  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  brown  in  oven.  Fill  with 
Creamed  Chicken.     Form  handles  for  baskets  of  parsley. 

Chicken  and  Oysters  a  la  Metropole 

^  cup  butter  2  cups  cold  cooked  chicken, 

^  cup  flour  cut  in  dice 

}4,  teaspoon  salt  1  pint  oysters,  cleaned  and 

%  teaspoon  pepper  drained 

2  cups  cream  y^  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

Make  a  sauce  of  first  five  ingredients,  add  chicken  dice  and 
oysters ;  cook  until  oysters  are  plump.  Serve  sprinkled  with 
celery. 

Luncheon  Chicken 

\%  cups  cold  cooked  chicken,  1  cup  Chicken  Stock 

cut  in  small  dice  Salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

1  slice  carrot,  cut  in  small  cubes  %  cup  buttered  cracker 

1  slice  onion  crumbs 

2  tablespoons  flour  4  eggs 

Cook  butter  five  minutes  with  vegetables,  add  flour,  and 
gradually  the  stock.     Strain,  add  chicken  dice,  and  season 


262  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  on  a  slightly  buttered  platter 
and  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs.  Make  four  nests,  and  in 
each  nest  slip  an  egg;  cover  eggs  with  crumbs,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  whites  of  eggs  are  firm. 

Blanquette  of  Chicken 

2  cups  cold  cooked  chicken,  1  tablespoon  finely 

cut  in  strips  chopped  parsley 

1  cup  White  Sauce  II  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  milk 

Add  chicken  to  sauce ;  when  well  heated,  add  yolks  of 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  diluted  with  milk.  Cook  two  minutes, 
then  add  parsley. 

Scalloped  Chicken 
Butter  a  baking-dish.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  cold, 
cooked  sliced  chicken  and  boiled  macaroni  or  rice.  Pour 
over  White,  Brown,  or  Tomato  Sauce,  cover  with  buttered 
cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Mock  Terrapin 
1)^  cups  cold  cooked  chicken        Whites  2  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs, 
or  veal,  cut  in  dice  chopped 

1  cup  White  Sauce  I  3  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 
Yolks  2  "  hard-boiled  '*  eggs,         ^  teaspoon  salt 

finely  chopped  Few  grains  cayenne 

Add  to  sauce,  chicken,  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs,  salt,  and 
cayenne ;  cook  two  minutes,  and  add  wine. 

Chicken  Souffle 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  cups  cold  cooked  chicken, 
}{  cup  butter  finely  chopped 

^  cup  flour  Yolks  3  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  finely-chopped 
}^  teaspoon  pepper    -  parsley 

}{  cup  stale  soft  bread  crumbs  Whites  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff 

Make  a  sauce  of  first  five  ingredients,  add  bread  crumbs, 
and  cook  two  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  chicken,  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  parsley,  then  fold  in  whites  of  eggs.  Turn  in 
a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  thirty  five  minutes  in  a 


WARMING  OVER   POULTRY  AND  GAME  263 

slow  oven.     Serve  with  White  Mushroom  Sauce.     Veal  may 
be  used  in  place  of  chicken. 

Chicken  Hollandaise 

1%  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  finely  chopped  celery 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  onion      ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  corn-starch  Few  grains  paprika 

1  cup  chicken  stock  1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken, 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  cut  in  small  cubes 

Yolk  1  e^g 

Cook  butter  and  onion  five  minutes,  add  corn-starch  and 
stock  gradually.  Add  lemon  juice,  celery,  salt,  paprika, 
and  chicken;  when  well  heated,  add  yolk  of  eg^  slightly 
beaten,  and  cook  one  minute.  Serve  with  buttered  Graham 
toast. 

Chicken  Chartreuse 

Prepare  and  cook  same  as  Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat, 
using  chicken  in  place  of  lamb  or  veal.  Season  chicken 
with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  onion  juice,  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  parsley. 

Scalloped  Turkey 

Make  one  cup  of  sauce,  using  two  tablespoons  butter,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  of 
pepper,  and  one  cup  stock  (obtained  by  cooking  in  water 
bones  and  skin  of  a  roast  turkey).  Cut  remnants  of  cold 
roast  turkey  in  small  pieces ;  there  should  be  one  and  one- 
half  cups.  Sprinkle  bottom  of  buttered  baking-dish  with 
seasoned  cracker  crumbs,  add  turkey  meat,  pour  over  sauce, 
and  sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Turkey,  chicken,  or  veal  may 
be  used  separately  or  in  combination. 

Minced  Turkey 

To  one  cup  cold  roast  turkey,  cut  in  small  dice,  add  one- 
third  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs.  Make  one  cup  sauce, 
using  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  one 
cup  stock  (obtained  by  cooking  bones  and  skin  of  a  roait 


264  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

turkey).  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  juice.  Heat 
turkey  and  bread  crumbs  in  sauce.  Serve  on  small  pieces  of 
toast,  and  garnish  with  poached  eggs  and  toast  points. 

Salmi  of  Duck 

Cut  cold  roast  duck  in  pieces  for  serving.  Reheat  in 
Spanish  Sauce. 

Spanish  Sauce.  Melt  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  one 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery,  two  slices 
carrot  cut  in  pieces,  and  two  tablespoons  finely  chopped  lean 
raw  ham.  Cook  until  butter  is  brown,  then  add  one-fourth 
cup  flour,  and  when  well  browned  add  two  cups  Consomme, 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  sprig  of  parsley,  blade  of  mace,  two  cloves, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper;  cook 
five  minutes.  Strain,  add  duck,  and  when  reheated  add 
Sherry  wine,  stoned  olives,  and  mushrooms  cut  in  quarters. 
Arrange  on  dish  for  serving,  and  garnish  with  olives  and 
mushrooms.     Grouse  may  be  used  in  place  of  duck. 


FISH  AND  MEAT   SAUCES  265 


CHAPTER  XVIII 
FISH  AND   MEAT   SAUCES 

THE  French  chef  keeps  always  ou  hand  four  sauces,  — 
White,  Brown,  Bechamel,  and  Tomato,  —  and  with 
these  as  a  basis  is  able  to  make  kinds  innumerable.  Butter 
and  flour  are  usually  cooked  together  for  thickening  sauces. 
When  not  browned,  it  is  called  roux ;  when  browned,  brown 
roux.  The  French  mix  butter  and  flour  together,  put  in 
saucepan,  place  over  fire,  stir  for  five  minutes ;  set  aside  to 
cool,  again  place  over  fire,  and  add  liquid,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick  and  smooth.  Butter  and  flour  for  brown  sauces 
are  cooked  together  much  longer,  and  watched  carefully  lest 
butter  should  burn.  The  American  cook  makes  sauce  by 
stirring  butter  in  saucepan  until  melted  and  bubbling,  adds 
flour  and  continues  stirring,  then  adds  liquid,  gradually  stir- 
ring or  beating  until  the  boiling-point  is  reached.  For  Brown 
Sauce,  butter  should  be  stirred  until  well  browned;  flour 
should  be  added  and  stirred  with  butter  until  both  are 
browned  before  the  addition  of  liquid.  The  secret  in  mak- 
ing a  Brown  Sauce  is  to  have  butter  and  flour  well  browned 
before  adding  liquid. 

It  is  well  worth  remembering  that  a  sauce  of  average 
thickness  is  made  by  allowing  two  tablespoons  each  of  butter 
and  flour  to  one  cup  liquid,  whether  it  be  milk,  stock,  or  ta 
mato.  For  Brown  Sauce  a  slightly  larger  quantity  of  flour 
is  necessary,  as  by  browning  flour  its  thickening  property  is 
lessened,  its  starch  being  changed  to  dextrine.  When  sauces 
are  set  away,  put  a  few  bits  of  butter  on  top  to  prevent  crust 
from  forming. 


266  BOSTON  COOKLNG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Thin  "White  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  scalded  milk 

1}^  tablespoons  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 

Put  butter  in  saucepan,  stir  until  melted  and  bubbling; 
add  flour  mixed  with  seasonings,  and  stir  until  thoroughly 
blended ;  then  pour  on  gradually  while  stirring  constantly 
the  milk,  bring  to  the  boiling-point  and  let  boil  two  min- 
utes. If  a  wire  whisk  is  used,  all  the  milk  may  be  added  at 
once. 

Cream  Sauce 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce,  using  cream  instead  of 
milk. 

"White  Sauce  I 
2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce. 

"White  Sauce  II 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce. 

Thick  "White  Sauce  (for  Cutlets  and  Croquets) 

2%  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

)^  cup  corn-starch  or  ^i  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  flour  Few  grains  pepper 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce. 
"Veloute  Sauce 
2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  White  Stock 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce. 

Sauce  AUemande 
To  Veloute  Sauce  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  yolk 
one  egg. 


FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES  26T 

Soubiae  Sauce 

2  cups  sliced  onions  %  cup  cream  or  milk 

1  cup  Veloute  Sauce  Salt  and  pepper 

Cover  onions  with  boiling  water,  cook  five  minutes,  drain, 
again  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  soft ;  drain, 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  to  sauce  with  cream.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  mutton,  pork  chops,  or 
"  hard-boiled"  eggs. 

Drawn  Butter   Sauce 

^  cup  butter  1)^  cups  hot  water 

3  tablespoons  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Melt  one-half  the  butter,  add  flour  with  seasonings,  and 
pour  on  gradually  hot  water.  Boil  five  minutes,  and  add 
remaining  butter  in  small  pieces.  To  be  served  with  boiled 
or  baked  fish. 

Shrimp  Sauce 

To  Drawn  Butter  Sauce  add  one  Qg%  yolk  and  one-half 
can  shrimps  cleaned  and  cut  in  pieces. 

Caper  Sauce 

To  Drawn  Butter  Sauce  add  one-half  cup  capers  drained 
from  their  liquor.     Serve  with  boiled  mutton. 

Egg  Sauce  I 
To  Drawn  Butter  Sauce  add  two  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  cut  in 
one-fourth  inch  slices. 

Egg  Sauce  II 
To  Drawn  Butter  Sauce  add  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Brown  Sauce  I 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  Brown  Stock 
%  slice  onion  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  )^  teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  onion  in  butter  nntil  slightly  browned;  remove 
onion  and  stir  butter  constantly  until  well  browned ;  add 
flour  mixed  with  seasonings,  and  brown  the  butter  and 
flour;  then  add  stock  gradually,  bring  to  the  boiling-point, 
and  let  boil  two  minutes. 


268  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Brown  Sauce  II  (Espagnole) 

^  cup  butter  Sprig  of  parsley 

1  slice  carrot  6  peppercorns 

1  slice  onion  5  tablespoons  flour 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  2  cups  Brown  Stock 

Sprig  of  thyme  Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  butter  with  carrot,  onion,  bay  leaf,  thyme,  parsley, 
and  peppercorns,  until  brown,  stirring  constantly,  care  being 
taken  that  butter  is  not  allowed  to  burn ;  add  flour,  and 
when  well  browned,  add  stock  gradually.  Bring  to  boiling- 
point,  strain,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce  I 
To  one  cup  Brown  Sauce  add  one-fourth  can  mushroonis. 
drained,  rinsed,  and  cut  in  quarters  or  slices. 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce  II 

1  can  mushrooms  )^  cup  flour 

3^  cup  butter  2  cups  Consomme  or  Brown 

y^  tablespoon  lemon  juice  Stock 

Salt  and  pepper 

Drain  and  rinse  mushrooms  and  chop  finely  one-half  of 
same.  Cook  five  minutes  with  butter  and  lemon  juice; 
drain;  brown  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  when  well-browned, 
add  gradually  Consomme.  Cook  fifteen  minutes,  skim,  add 
remaining  mushrooms  cut  in  quarters  or  slices,  and  cook 
two  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Use  fresh 
mushrooms  in  place  of  canned  ones  when  possible. 

Sauce  Piquante 

To  one  cup  Brown  Sauce  add  one  tablespoon  vinegar, 
one-half  small  shallot  finely  chopped,  one  tablespoon  each 
chopped  capers  and'pickle,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne. 

Olive  Sauce 

Remove  stones  from  ten  olives,  leaving  meat  in  one  piece. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  five  minutes.  Drain 
olives,  and  add  to  two  cups  Brown  Sauce  I  or  11. 


FISH   AND   MEAT   SAUCES  269 

Orange  Sauce 

^  cup  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

)^  cup  flour  Juice  2  oranges 

13^  cups  Brown  Stock  2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

y^  teaspoon  salt  Rind  of  1  orange,  cut  in 

fancy  shapes 

Brown  the  butter,  add  flour,  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and 
stir  until  well  browned.  Add  stock  gradually,  and  just 
before  serving,  orange  juice,  Sherry,  and  pieces  of  rind. 

Sauce  k  I'ltalienue 

Onion  1  r»  ^  1 1  1  Sprig  marioram 

Carrot  l^  tablespoons  each         ^  tablespoons  butter 

Lean  raw  ham]  finely  chopped       2)^  tablespoons  flour 

12  peppercorns  1  cup  Brown  Stock 

2  cloves  11^  cups  white  wine 

%  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

Cook  first  six  ingredients  with  butter  five  minutes,  add 
flour,  and  stir  until  well  browned ;  then  add  gradually  stock 
and  wine.  Strain,  reheat,  and  after  pouring  around  fish 
sprinkle  with  parsley. 

Champagne  Sauce 

Simmer  two  cups  Espagnole  Sauce  until  reduced  to  one 
and  one-half  cups.  Add  two  tablespoons  mushroom  liquor, 
one-half  cup  champagne,  and  one  tablespoon  powdered 
sugar. 

Tomato  Sauce  I  (-without  Stock) 
%  can  tomatoes  or  3  tablespoons  butter 

1^  cups  fresh  stewed  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  1^  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  onion  with  tomatoes  fifteen  minutes,  rub  through 
a  strainer,  and  add  to  butter  and  flour  (to  which  seasonings 
have  been  added)  cooked  together.  If  tomatoes  are  very 
acid,  add  a  few  grains  of  soda.  If  tomatoes  are  to  retain 
their  red  color  it  is  necessary  to  brown  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether before  adding  the  toroatoes. 


270  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Tomato  Sauce  II 

%  can  tomatoes  i^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

8  peppercorns  4  tablespoons  flour 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  1  cup  Brown  Stock 

Cook  tomatoes  twenty  minutes  with  sugar,  peppercorns, 
bay  leaf,  and  salt ;  rub  through  a  strainer,  and  add  stock. 
Brown  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  when  well  browned,  grad- 
ually add  hot  liquid. 

Tomato  Sauce  IH 

^  cup  butter  Sprig  of  parsley 

1  slice  carrot  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 

1  slice  onion  tomatoes 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  1  cup  Brown  Stock 

Sprig  of  thyme  Salt  and  pepper 

^  cup  flour 

Brown  the  butter  with  carrot,  onion,  bay  leaf,  thyme, 
and  parsley;  remove  seasonings,  add  flour,  stir  until  well 
browned,  then  add  tomatoes  and  stock.  Bring  to  boiling- 
point,  and  strain. 

Tomato  and  Mushroom  Sauce 

2  slices  chopped  bacon  or  2  cloves 

small  quantity  uncooked  ham        %  teaspoon  peppercorns 

1  slice  onion  Few  gratings  nutmeg 
6  slices  carrot  3  tablespoons  flour 
Bit  of  bay  leaf  %  can  tomatoes 

2  sprigs  thyme  \%  cups  Brown  Stock 
Sprig  of  parsley  Salt  and  pepper 

%  can  mushrooms 

Cook  bacon,  onion,  and  carrot  five  minutes;  add  bay 
leaf,  thyme,  •  parsley,  cloves,  peppercorns,  nutmeg,  and 
tomatoes,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  flour  diluted  with 
enough  cold  water  to  pour;  as  it  thickens,  dilute  with  stock. 
Cover,  and  cook  in  oven  one  hour.  Strain,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  one-half  can  mushrooms,  drained  from 
their  liquor,  rinsed,  and  cut  in  quarters;  then  cook  two 
minutes.  Use  fresh  mushrooms  in  place  of  canned  ones 
when  possible. 


B'ISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES  2T1 


Tomato  Cream  Sauce 

%  can  tomatoes  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

Sprig  of  thyme  1  cup  White  Sauce  I 

1  stalk  celery  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  onion  Few  grains  cayenne 

^i  teaspoon  soda 

Cook  tomatoes  twenty  minutes  with  seasonings;  rub 
through  a  strainer,  add  soda,  then  White  Sauce.  Serve 
with  Baked  Fish  or  Lobster  Cutlets. 

Spanish  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  ^  cup  butter 

lean  raw  ham  y^  cup  flour 

2  tablespoons  chopped  celery  1)^  cups  Brown  Stock 

2  tablespoons  chopped  carrot  ^  cup  stewed  and  strained 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  tomatoes 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  ham  and  vegetables  with  butter  until  butter  is  well 
browned ;  add  flour,  stock,  and  tomatoes ;  cook  five  minutes, 
then  strain.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

B§chamel  Sauce 

1%  cups  White  Stock  6  peppercorns 

1  slice  onion  \^  cup  butter 

1  slice  carrot  ^  cup  flour 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  ^       1  cup  scalded  milk 

Sprig  of  parsley  y^  teaspoon  salt 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  stock  twenty  minutes  with  onion,  carrot,  bay  leaf, 
parsley,  and  peppercorns,  then  strain ;  there  should  be  one 
cupful.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  gradually  hot  stock 
and  milk.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Yellow  B6ohamel  Sauce 

To  two  cups  Bechamel  Sauce  add  yolks  of  three  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  first  diluting  eggs  with  small  quantity  of 
hot  sauce,  then  adding  gradually  to  remaining  sauce.  This 
prevents  the  sauce  from  having  a  curdled  appearance. 


272  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 

Olive  and  Almond  Sauce 

8  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  beef  extract 

3  tablespoons  flour  8  olives  (stoned  and  cut 

1  cup  White  Stock  in  quarters) 

y^  cup  cream  ^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

^  cup  shredded  almonds  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  pou^-  on  gradually  White  Stock. 
Just  before  serving  add  remaining  ingredients.  Serve  with 
boiled  or  steamed  fish. 

Oyster  Sauce 

1  pint  oysters  1  cup  milk  or  Chicken  Stock 

}^  cup  butter  Salt 

^  cup  flour  Pepper 

Oyster  liquor 

Wash  oysters,  reserve  liquor,  heat,  strain,  add  oysters, 
and  cook  until  plump.  Remove  oysters,  and  make  a  sauce 
of  butter,  flour,  oyster  liquor,  and  milk.  Add  oysters,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Cucumber  Sauce  I 

Grate  two  cucumbers,  drain,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  vinegar.     Serve  with  Broiled  Fish. 

Cucumber  Sauce  II 

Beat  one-half  cup  heavy  cream  until  stiff,  and  add  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper,  and  gradually  two 
tablespoons  vinegar;  then  add  one  cucumber,  pared,  chopped, 
and  drained. 

Celery  Sauce 

3  cups  celery,  cut  in  2  cups  Thin  White 

thin  slices   -  Sauce 

Wash  and  scrape  celery  before  cutting  into  pieces.  Cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft,  drain,  rub  through  a  sieve, 
and  add  to  sauce.  Celery  sauce  is  often  made  from  the 
stock  in  which  fowl  or  turkey  has  been  boiled,  or  with  one- 
half  stock  and  one-half  milk. 


PISH   AI?D  MEAT  SAUCES  273 

Suprgme  Sauce 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  hot  cream 

}^  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  mushroom  liquor 

Ij^  cups  hot  Chicken  Stock  X  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Salt  and  pepper 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce,  and  add  seasonings. 

Maitre  d'Hdtel  Butter 

%  cup  butter  %  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

%  teaspoon  Gait  parsley 

y^  teaspoon  pepper  ^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Put  butter  in  a  bowl,  and  with  small  wooden  spoon  work 
until  creamy.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley,  then  lemon 
juice  very  slowly. 

Tartar  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 

y^  cup  butter 

The  Boston  Cook  Book 

Mix  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  Worcestershire  Sauce 
in  a  small  bowl,  and  heat  over  hot  water.  Brown  the  butter 
in  an  omelet  pan,  and  strain  into  first  mixture. 

Lemon  Butter 

1^  cnp  butter  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  slowly  lemon  juice. 

Anchovy  Butter 
1^  cup  butter  .    Anchovy  sauce 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  anchovy  sauce  to  taste. 

Lobster  Butter 

^  cup  butter  Lobster  coral 

Clean,  wipe,  and  force  coral  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  in 
a  mortar  with  butter,  and  pound  until  well  blended.  This 
butter  is  used  in  Lobster  Soup  and  Sauces  to  give  color  and 
richness. 

18 


274  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Hollandaise  Sauce  I 

%  cup  butter  }4^  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  2  eggs  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  y^  cup  boiling  water 

Put  butter  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  wash, 
using  a  spoon.  Divide  in  three  pieces ;  put  one  piece  in  a 
saucepan  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  lemon  juice,  place  saucepan 
in  a  larger  one  containing  boiling  water,  and  stir  constantly 
with  a  wire  whisk  until  butter  is  melted ;  then  add  second 
piece  of  butter,  and,  as  it  thickens,  third  piece.  Add  water, 
cook  one  minute,  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  If 
mixture  curdles,  add  two  tablespoons  heavy  cream. 

Hollandaise  Sauce  II 

%  cup  butter  Yolks  2  eggs 

y^  tablespoon  vinegar  or  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  Few  grains  cayenne. 

French  Chef 

Wash  butter,  divide  in  three  pieces ;  put  one  piece  in  a 
saucepan  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  and  egg  yolks ;  place 
saucepan  in  a  larger  one  containing  boiling  water,  and  stir 
constantly  with  a  wire  whisk.  Add  second  piece  of  butter, 
and,  as  it  thickens,  third  piece.  Remove  from  fire,  and  add 
salt  and  cayenne.  If  left  over  fire  a  moment  too  long  it 
will  separate.  If  a  richer  sauce  is  desired,  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon hot  water  and  one-half  tablespoon  heavy  cream. 

Anchovy  Sauce 

Season  Brown,  Drawn  Butter,  or  Hollandaise  Sauce  with 
anchovy  sauce. 

Horseradish  Hollandaise  Sauce 

To  Hollandaise  Sauce  II  add  one-fourth  cup  grated  horse- 
radish root. 

Lobster  Sauce  I 

To  Hollandaise  Sauce  I  add  one-third  cup  lobster  meat  cut 
in  small  dice. 


PISH  AND  MEAT   SAUCES  276 

Lobster  Sauce  H 

1^  lb.  lobster  %  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

1^  cup  flour  y^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

3  cups  cold  water 

Remove  meat  from  lobster,  and  cut  tender  claw- meat  in 
one-half  inch  dice.  Chop  remaining  meat,  add  to  body  bones, 
and  cover  with  water;  cook  until  stock  is  reduced  to  two 
cups,  strain,  and  add  gradually  to  butter  and  flour  cooked  to- 
gether, then  add  salt,-  cayenne,  lemon  juice,  and  lobster  dice. 

If  the  lobster  contains  coral,  prepare  Lobster  Butter,  add 
flour,  and  thicken  sauce  therewith. 

Sauce  Bearnaise 
To  HoUandaise  Sauce  II  add  one  teaspoon  each  of  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  fresh  tarragon  or  one-half  tablespoon 
tarragon  vinegar. 

Sers^ed  withTnutton  chops,  steaks,  broiled  squabs,  smelts, 
or  boiled  salmon. 

Sauce  Trianon 

To  HoUandaise  Sauce  II  add  gradually,  while  cookingj. 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  Sherry  wine. 

Sauce  Figaro 
To  HoUandaise  Sauce   II   add   two   tablespoons  tomato 
puree  (tomatoes  stewed,  strained,  and  cooked  until  reduced 
to  a  thick  pulp),  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  a 
few  grains  cayenne. 

Horseradish  Sauce  I 

3  tablespoons  grated  horse-  %  teaspoon  salt 

radish  root  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  4  tablespoons  heavy  cream 

Mix  first  four  ingredients,  and  add  cream  beaten  stiff. 

Horsexadish  Sauce  II 
3  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs  3  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  grated  horseradish  root  %  teaspoon  salt 

\}4.  c"Ps  milk  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  first  three  ingredients  twenty  minutes  in  double 
boiler.     Add  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 


276  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Bread  Sauce 

2  cups  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  fine  stale  bread  crumbs         Few  grains  cayenne 
1  onion  3  tablespoons  butter 

6  cloves  /^  cup  coarse  stale  bread 

crumbs 

Cook  milk  thirty  minutes  in  double  boiler,  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  onion  stuck  with  cloves.  Remove  onion,  add 
salt,  cayenne,  and  two  tablespoons  butter.  Usually  served 
poured  around  roast  partridge  or  grouse,  and  sprinkled  with 
coarse  crumbs  browned  in  remaining  butter. 

Rice  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  rice  3  cloves 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

^  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  rice,  add  to  milk,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
soft.  Rub  through  a  fine  strainer,  return  to  double  boiler, 
add  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  onion,  add  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Cauliflower  Sauce 
^  cup  butter  Cooked  flowerets  from  a  small 

1^  cup  flour  cauliflower 

1  cup  White   Stock  III        Salt 
1  cup  scalded  milk  Pepper 

Make  same  as  Thin  White  Sauce  and  add  flowerets. 

Mint  Sauce 
y^  cup  finely  chopped  mint  leaves        1  tablespoon  powdered 
y^  cup  vinegar  sugar 

Add  sugar  to  vinegar;  when  dissolved,  pour  over  mint 
and  let  stand  thirty  minutes  on  back  of  range  to  infuse.     If 
vinegar  is  very  strong,  dilute  with  water. 
Currant  Jelly  Sauce 

To  one  cup  Brown  Sauce,  from  which  onion  has  been 
omitted,  add  one-fourth  tumbler  current  jelly  and  one  table- 
spoon Sherry  wine ;  or,  add  currant  jelly  to  one  cup  gravy 
made  to  serve  with  roast  lamb.  Currant  Jelly  Sauce  is 
buitable  to  serv^e  with  iamb, 


FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES  277 

Port  "Wine  Sauce 

To  one  cup  Brown  Sauce,  from  which  onion  has  been 
omitted,  add  one-eighth  tumbler  current  jelly,  two  table- 
spoons Port  wine,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne. 

Vinaigrette  Sauce 

1  teaspoon  salt  6  tablespoons  olive  oil 

^  teaspoon  paprika  1  tablespoon  chopped  pickles 

Few  grains  pepper  1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper 

1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

2  tablespoons  cider  vinegar  1  teaspoon  chopped  chives 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 

Sauce  Tartare 

^  teaspoon  mustard  1)^'  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar         Capers 

y^  teaspoon  salt  Pickles 

Few  grains  cayenne  Olives 

Yolks  2  eggs  Parsley 

^2,  cup  olive  oil  }^  shallot,  finely  chopped 

}/^  teaspoon  powdered  tarragon  or  1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar 

Mix  mustard,  sugar,  salt,  and  cayenne ;  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  setting  bowl  in  pan  of  ice- 
water.  Add  oil,  at  first  drop  by  drop,  stirring  with  a 
wooden  spoon  or  wire  whisk.  As  mixture  thickens,  dilute 
with  vinegar,  when  oil  may  be  added  more  rapidly.  Keep 
in   cool   place   until  ready  to   serve,   then   add   remaining 


%,  tablespoon  each 
finely  chopped 


ingredients. 


Hot  Sauce  Tartare 


%  tablespoon 

each, 
finely  chopped 


%  cup  White  Sauce  I  Capers 

3^^  cup  Mayonnaise  Pickles 

3^  shallot,  finely  chopped  Olives 

%,  teaspoon  vinegar  Parsley 

To  white  sauce  add  remaining  ingredients.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  mixture  is  thoroughly  heated,  but  do  not  let  it 
come  to  the  boiling-point.  Served  with  boiled,  steamed,  or 
fried  fish. 


278  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

Hot  Mayonnaise 

Yc^ks  2  eggs  M  c^P  ^^^  water 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  Salt 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

Add  oil  slowly  to  egg  yolks,  then  pour  on  gradually  vine- 
gar and  water.  Cook  over  boiling  water  until  mixture 
thickens,  then  add  seasonings  and  parsley. 

Sauce  Tyrolienne 

To  three-fourths  cup  Mayonnaise  add  one-half  tablespoon 
each  finely  chopped  capers  and  parsley,  one  finely  chopped 
gherkin,  and  one-half  can  tomatoes,  stewed,  strained,  and 
cooked  until  reduced  to  two  tablespoons.  Serve  with  any 
kind  of  fried  fish. 

Creole  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion  ^  cup  sliced  mushrooms 

4  tablespoons  green  pepper,  finely  6  olives,  stoned 

chopped  1%  cups  Brown  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tomatoes  Sherry  wine 

Cook  onion  and  pepper  with  butter  five  minutes ;  add 
tomatoes,  mushrooms,  and  olives,  and  cook  two  minutes, 
then  add  Brown  Sauce.  Bring  to  boiling-point,  and  add 
wine  to  taste.  Serve  with  broiled  beefsteak  or  fillet  of  beef. 
Boiled  rice  should  accompany  the  beef,  and  be  served  on 
same  platter. 

Russian  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  }£  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives 

2  tablespoons  flour  3^  teaspoon  made  mustard 

1  cup  White  Stock  III  1  teaspoon  grated  horseradish 

^  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  cream 

Few  grains  pepper  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  White 
Stock ;  then  add  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  chives,  and  horse- 
radish.    Cook  two  minutes,  strain,  add  cream  and  lemon 


FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES 


279 


juice.    Reheat  before  serving, 
or  Hamburg  Steaks. 


Serve  with  Beef  Tenderloins 


Sauce  Finiste 


3  tablespoons  butter 
%  teaspoon  mustard 
Few  grains  cayenne 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cook    butter   until    well 
ingredients. 


\%  teaspoons  Worcestershire 

Sauce 
^  cup  stewed  and  strained 

tomatoes 

browned,    and    add    remaining 


280 


BOSTON   dbOKlNG-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 


CHAPTER   XIX 

VEGETABLES 

Table  showing  Composition  of  Vegetables 


Articles  Proteid 

Artichokes 2.6 

Asparagus    .     .'     .     .     .  1.8 

Beans,  Lima,  green    .     .  7.1 

"      green  string     .     .  2.2 

Beets 1.6 

Brussels  sprouts     .     .     .  4.7 

Cabbage 2.1 

Carrots 1.1 

Cauliflower 1.6 

Celery 1.4 

Corn,  green,  sweet      .     .  2.8 

Cucumbers 8 

Egg-plant 1.2 

Kohl-rabi 2. 

Lettuce 1.3 

Okra 2. 

Onions 4.4 

Parsnips 1.7 

Peas,  green 4.4 

Potatoes,  sweet      .     .     .  1.8 

'•  white     ...  2.1 

Spinach .2.1 

Squash 1.6 

Tomatoes 8 

Turnips 1.4 


Carbo- 

Mineral 

Watei 

Fat 

hydrates 

matter 

.2 

16.7 

1. 

79.5 

.2 

3.3 

1. 

94. 

.7 

22. 

1.7 

68.5 

.4 

9.4 

-.7 

87.3 

.1 

9.6 

1.1 

87.6 

1.1 

.      4.3 

1.7 

88.2 

.4 

5.8 

1.4 

90.3 

.4 

9.2 

1.1 

88.2 

.8 

6. 

.8 

90.8 

.1 

3. 

1.1 

94.4 

1.1 

14.1 

.7 

81.3 

.2 

2.5 

.5 

96. 

.3 

5.1 

.5 

92.9 

.1 

5.5 

1.3 

91.1 

.4 

3.3 

1. 

94. 

.4 

9.5 

.7 

87.4 

.8 

.5 

1.2 

93.5 

.6 

16.1 

1.7 

79.9 

.5 

16.1 

.9 

78.1 

.7 

27.1 

1.1 

69.3 

.1 

18. 

.9 

78.9 

.5 

3.1 

1.9 

92.4 

.6 

10.4 

.9 

86.5 

.4 

3.9 

.5 

94.4 

.2 

8.7 

.8 

88.9 

W.  0.  Atwater,  Ph.D. 

Vegetables  include,  commonly  though  not  botanically 
speaking,  all  plants  used  for  food  except  grains  and  fruits. 
With  exception  of  beans,  peas,  and  lentils,  which  contain  a 


VEGETABLES  281 

large  amount  of  proteid,  they  are  chiefly  valuable  for  their 
potash  salts,  and  should  form  a  part  of  each  day's  dietary. 
Many  contain  much  cellulose,  which  gives  needed  bulk  to 
the  food.  The  legumes,  peas,  beans,  and  lentils  may  be 
used  in  place  of  flesh  food. 

For  the  various  vegetables  different  parts  of  the  plant  are 
used.  Some  are  eaten  in  the  natural  state,  others  are 
cooked. 

Tubers     White  potatoes  and  Jerusalem  artichokes 

Tj  r Beets,   carrots,   parsnips,    radishes,  sweet   potatoes 

\        salsify  or  oyster  plant,  and  turnips 
Bulbs       Garlic,  onions,  and  shallots 
Stems       Asparagus,  celery,  and  chives 

rBrussels  sprouts,  beet  greens,  cabbages,  dandelions, 

\        lettuce,  sorrel,  spinach,  and  watercress 
Flowers  Cauliflower 
_,     .      J  Beans,  corn,  cucumbers,  okra,  egg-plant,  peas,  lentils, 

\        squash,  and  tomatoes. 

Young,  tender  vegetables,  —  as  lettuce,  radishes,  cucum- 
bers, water-cress,  and  tomatoes,  —  eaten  uncooked,  served 
separately  or  combined  in  salads,  help  to  stimulate  a  flag- 
ging appetite,  and  when  dressed  with  oil  furnish  considerable 
nutriment. 

Beans,  and  peas  when  old,  should  be  employed  in  mak- 
ing purees  and  soups ;  by  so  doing,  the  outer  covering  of 
cellulose,  so  irritating  to  the  stomach,  is  removed. 

Care  of  Vegetables 

Summer  vegetables  should  be  cooked  as  soon  after  gather- 
ing as  possible ;  in  case  they  must  be  kept,  spread  on 
bottom  of  cool,  dry,  well-ventilated  cellar,  or  place  in  ice- 
box. Lettuce  may  be  best  kept  by  sprinkling  with  cold 
water  and  placing  in  a  tin  pail  closely  covered.  Wilted 
vegetables  may  be  freshened  by  allowing  to  stand  in  cold 
water.  Vegetables  which  contain  sugar  lose  some  of  their 
sweetness  by  standing ;  corn  and  peas  are  more  quickly 
affected  than  others.  Winter  vegetables  should  be  kept  in 
a  cold,  dry  place.     Beets,  carrots,  turnips,  potatoes,  «tc.t 


282  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

should  be  put  in  barrels  or  piled  in  bins,  to  exclude  as  much 
air  as  possible.  Squash  should  be  spread,  and  needs  care- 
ful watching ;  when  dark  spots  appear,  cook  at  once. 

In  using  canned  goods,  empty  contents  from  can  as  soon 
as  opened,  lest  the  acid  therein  act  on  the  tin  to  produce 
poisonous  compounds,  and  let  stand  one  hour,  that  it  may 
become  reoxygenated.  Beans,  peas,  asparagus,  etc.,  should 
be  emptied  into  a  strainer,  drained,  and  cold  water  poured 
over  them  and  allowed  to  run  through.  In  using  dried 
vegetables,  soak  in  cold  water  several  hours  before  cooking. 
A  few  years  ago  native  vegetables  were  alone  sold ;  but 
now  our  markets  are  largely  supplied  from  the  Southern 
States  and  California,  thus  allowing  us  fresh  vegetables 
throughout  the  year. 

Cooking  of  Vegetables 

A  small  scrubbing-brush,  which  may  be  bought  for  five 
cents,  and  two  small  pointed  knives  for  preparing  vegetables 
should  be  found  in  every  kitchen. 

Vegetables  should  be  washed  in  cold  water,  and  cooked 
until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water ;  if  cooked  in  an  uncovered 
vessel,  their  color  is  better  kept.  For  peas  and  beans  add 
salt  to  water  last  half  hour  of  cooking.  Time  for  cooking 
the  same  vegetable  varies  according  to  freshness  and  age, 
therefore  time-tables  for  cooking  serve  only  as  guides. 

Mushrooms  and  TrufiEles 

These  are  classed  among  vegetables.  Mushrooms,  which 
grow  about  us  abundantly,  may  be  easily  gathered,  and  as 
they  contain  considerable  nutriment,  should  often  be  found 
on  the  table.  While  there  are  hundreds  of  varieties,  one  by 
a  little  study  may  acquaint  herself  with  a  dozen  or  more  of 
the  most  common  ones  which  are  valuable  as  food.  Consult 
W.  Hamilton  Gibson,  "Our  Edible  Toadstools  and  Mush- 
rooms." Many  might  cause  illness,  but  only  a  few  varieties 
of  the  Amanita  family  are  deadly  poison.  Mushrooms 
require  heat  and  moisture, — a  severe  drought  or  very  wet 
soil  being  unfavorable  for  their  growth.  Never  gather 
mushrooms  in  the  vicinity  of  decaying  matter.    They  appear 


TBGETABLBS  288 

the  middle  of  May,  and  last  until  frost  comes.  Campestris 
is  the  variety  always  found  in  market;  French  canned  are 
of  this  family.     Boleti  are  dried,  canned,  and  sold  as  cepes. 

Truffles 

Truffles  belong  to  the  same  family  as  mushrooms,  and 
are  grown  underground.  France  is  the  most  famous  field 
for  their  production,  from  which  country  they  are  exported 
in  tin  cans,  and  are  too  expensive  for  ordinary  use. 

Artichokes 
French  artichokes,  imported  throughout  the  year,  are  the 
ones  principally  used.  They  retail  from  thirty  to  forty 
cents  each,  and  are  cheapest  and  best  in  November,  Decem- 
ber, and  January.  Artichokes  are  appearing  in  market  from 
California  and  are  somewhat  cheaper  in  price  than  the 
P'rench  Artichoke.  Jerusalem  artichokes  are  employed  for 
pickling,  and  can  be  bought  for  fifteen  cents  per  quart. 

Boiled  Artichokes 

Cut  off  stem  close  to  leaves,  remove  outside  bottom 
leaves,  trim  artichoke,  cut  off  one  inch  from  top  of  leaves, 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  remove  choke ;  then  tie  artichoke 
with  a  string  to  keep  its  shape.  Soak  one-half  hour  in 
cold  water.  Drain,  and  cook  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes 
in  boiling,  salted,  acidulated  water.  Remove  from  water, 
place  upside  down  to  drain,  then  take  off  string.  Serve 
with  Bechamel  or  Hollandaise  Sauce.  Boiled  Artichokes 
often  constitute  a  course  at  dinner.  Leaves  are  drawn 
out  separately  with  fingers,  dipped  in  sauce,  and  fleshy  ends 
only  eaten,  although  the  bottom  is  edible.  Artichokes  may 
be  cut  in  quarters,  cooked,  drained,  and  served  with  Sauce 
Bearnaise.  When  prepared  in  this  way  they  are  served  with 
mutton. 

Fried  Artichokes 

Sprinkle  Boiled  Artichokes  cut  in  quarters  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  finely  chopped  parsley.  Dip  in  Batter  I,  fry  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain.  In  preparing  artichokes,  trim  off  tops 
of  leaves  closer  than  when  served  as  Boiled  ArtichokeSc 


284  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

Artichoke  Bottoms 

Remos^e  all  leaves  and  the  choke.  Trim  bottoms  in 
shape,  and  cook  until  soft  in  boiling,  salted,  acidulated 
water.     Serve  with  Hollandaise  or  Bechamel  Sauce. 

Stuffed  Artichokes  ^ 

Prepare  and  cook  as  Boiled  Artichokes,  having  them 
slightly  underdone.  Fill  with  Chicken  Force-meat  I  or 
IL  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting 
twice  with  Thin  White  Sauce.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and 
pour  around  Thin  White  Sauce. 

Asparagus 

Hothouse  asparagus  is  found  in  market  during  winter, 
but  is  not  very  satisfactory,  and  is  sold  for  about  one 
dollar  per  bunch.  Oyster  Bay  (white  asparagus)  appears 
first  of  May,  and  commands  a  very  high  price.  Large  and 
small  green  stalk  asparagus  is  in  season  from  first  of  June 
to  middle  of  July,  and  cheapest  the  middle  of  June. 

Boiled  Asparagus 

Cut  off  lower  parts  of  stalks  as  far  down  as  they  will 
snap,  untie  bunches,  wash,  remove  scales,  and  retie.  Cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  fifteen  minutes  or  until  soft,  leaving 
tips  out  of  water  first  ten  minutes.  Drain,  remove  string, 
and  spread  with  soft  butter,  allowing  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  butter  to  each  bunch  asparagus.  Asparagus  is 
often  broken  or  cut  in  inch  pieces  for  boiling,  cooking  tips  a 
shorter  time  than  stalks. 

Asparagus  on  Toast 
Serve  Boiled  Asparagus  on  Buttered  or  Milk  Toast. 

Asparagus  in  White  Sauce 
Boil  asparagus  cut  in   one-inch   pieces,  drain,  and   add 
CO  White  Sauce  I,  allowing  one  cup  sauce  to  each  bunch 
asparagus.    Serve  in  Croustades  of  Bread  for  a  vegetable 
course. 


VEGETABLES  285 

Asparagus  k  la  Hollandaise 
Pour  Hollandaise  Sauce  I  over  Boiled  Asparagus. 

Asparagus  in  Crusts 

Remove  centres  from  small  rolls,  fry  shells  in  deep  fat, 
drain,  and  fill  with  Asparagus  in  White  Sauce. 

Beans 

String  Beans  that  are  obtainable  in  winter  come  from 
California;  natives  appear  in  market  the  last  of  June  and 
continue  until  the  last  of  September.  There  are  two  varie- 
ties, green  (pole  cranberry  being  best  flavored)  and  yellow 
(butter  bean). 

Shell  Beans^  including  horticultural  and  sieva,  are  sold  in 
the  pod  or  shelled,  five  quarts  in  pod  making  one  quart 
shelled.  They  are  found  in  market  during  July  and  August. 
Common  lima  and  improved  lima  shell  beans  are  in  season 
in  August  and  September.  Dried  lima  beans  are  procurable 
throughout  the  year. 

String  Beans 

Remove  strings,  and  snap  or  cut  in  one-inch  pieces ;  wash^ 
and  cook  in  boiling  water  from  one  to  three  hours,  adding 
salt  last  half-hour  of  cooking.  Drain,  season  with  butter 
and  salt.  , 

Shell  Beans 

Wash,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  from  one  to  one  and  a 
half  hours,  adding  salt  last  half-hour  of  cooking.  Cook  in 
sufficiently  small  quantity  of  water,  that  there  may  be 
none  left  to  drain  off  when  beans  are  cooked.  Season 
with  butter  and  salt. 

Cream  of  Lima  Beans 

Soak  one  cup  dried  beans  over  night,  drain,  and  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft ;  drain,  add  three-fourths 
cup  cream,  and  season  with  butter  and  salt     Reheat  before 


286  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Boiled  Beets 

Wash,  and  cook  whole  in  boiling  water  until  soft ;  time 
required  being  from  one  to  four  hours.  Old  beets  will  never 
be  tender,  no  matter  how  long  they  may  be  cooked.  Drain, 
and  put  in  cold  water  that  skins  may  be  easily  removed. 
Serve  cut  in  quarters  or  slices. 

Sugared  Beets 

4  hot  boiled  beets  1}^  tablespoons  sugar 

3  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Cut  beets  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  add  butter,  sugar,  and 
salt ;  reheat  for  serving. 

Pickled  Beets 
Slice  cold  boiled  beets  and  cover  with  vinegar. 

Beets,   Sour  Sauce 

'Wash  beets,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft. 
Drain,  and  reserve  one-half  cup  water  in  which  beets  were 
cooked.  Plunge  into  cold  water,  rub  off  skins  and  cut  into 
cubes.     Reheat  in 

Sour  Sauce.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  the  beet  water.  Add  one-fourth 
cup,  each,  vinegar  and  cream,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 

Harvard  Beets 

Wash  twelve  small  beets,  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft, 
remove  skins,  and  cut  beets  in  thin  slices,  small  cubes,  or 
fancy  shapes,  using  French  vegetable  cutter.  Mix  one-half 
cup  sugar  and  one-half  tablespoon  corn-starch.  Add  one- 
half  cup  vinegar  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  over  beets, 
and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  one-half  hour.  Just  before 
serving  add  two  tablespoons  butter. 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Brussels  sprouts  belong  to  the  same  family  as  cabbage, 
and  the  small  heads  grow  from  one  to  two  incheB  apart, 


VEGETABLES  287 

on  the  axis  of  the  entire  stem,  one  root  yielding  about  two 
quarts.  They  are  imported,  and  also  grow  in  this  country, 
being  cheapest  and  best  in  December  and  January. 

Brussels  Sprouts  in  "White  Sauce 

Pick  over,  remove  wilted  leaves,  and  soak  in  cold  water 
fifteen  minutes.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  min- 
utes, or  until  easily  pierced  with  a  skewer.  Drain,  and  to 
each  pint  add  one  cup  White  Sauce  I. 

Scalloped  Brussels  Sprouts 

Pick  over,  remove  wilted  leaves,  and  soak  in  cold  water 
one  quart  sprouts.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft, 
then  drain.  Wash  celery  and  cut  in  pieces  ;  there  should  be 
one  and  one-half  cups.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
celery,  cook  two  minutes,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and 
pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  scalded  milk ;  add 
sprouts  and  turn  mixture  into  a  baking-dish.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Cabbage 

There  are  four  kinds  of  cabbage  in  the  market,  —  drum- 
head, sugar-loaf.  Savoy,  and  purple ;  and  some  variety  may 
be  found  throughout  the  year.  The  Savoy  is  best  for  boil- 
ing; drum-head  and  purple  for  Cole-Slaw.  In  buying, 
select  heavy  cabbages. 

Boiled  Cabbage 

Take  off  outside  leaves,  cut  in  quarters,  and  remove 
tough  stalk.  Soak  in  cold  water  and  cook  in  an  uncovered 
vessel  in  boiling  salted  water,  to  which  is  added  one-fourth 
teaspoon  soda  ;  this  prevents  disagreeable  odor  during  cook- 
ing. Cook  from  thirty  minutes  to  one  hour,  drain,  and  serve ; 
or  chop,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Escalloped  Cabbage 

Cut  one-half  boiled  cabbage  in  pieces;  put  in  buttered 
baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  one 
cup  White  Sauce  I.     Lift  cabbage  with  fork,  that  it  may  be 


288  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

well  mixed  with  sauce,   cover  with  buttered   crumbs,  and 
bake  until  crumbs   are  brown. 

German  Cabbage 
Slice  red  cabbage  and  soak  in  cold  water.  Put  one  quart 
in  stewpan  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  few  gratings  of 
autmeg,  and  few  grains  cayenne;  cover,  and  cook  until 
cabbage  is  tender.  Add  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  one- 
half  tablespoon  sugar,  and  cook  five  minutes. 

Cole-Slaw 

Select  a  small,  heavy  cabbage,  take  off  outside  leaves, 
and  cut  in  quarters;  with  a  sharp  knife  slice  very  thinly. 
Soak  in  cold  water  until  crisp,  drain,  dry  between  towels, 
and  mix  with  Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

Hot  Slaw 

Slice  cabbage  as  for  Cole-Slaw,  using  one-half  cabbage. 
Heat  in  a  dressing  made  of  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly 
beaten,  one-fourth  cup  cold  water,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
one-fourth  cup  hot  vinegar,  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
stirred  over  hot  water  until  thickened. 

Carrots 

Carrots  may  always  be  found  in  market.  New  carrots 
appear  last  of  April,  and  are  sold  in  bunches ;  these  may  be 
boiled  and  served,  but  carrots  are  chiefly  used  for  flavoring 
soups,  and  for  garnishing,  on  account  of  their  bright  color. 
To  prepare  carrots  for  cooking,  wash  and  scrape,  as  best 
flavor  and  brightest  color  are  near  the  skin. 

Carrots  and  Peas 
Wash^  scrape,  and  cut  young  carrots  in  small  cubes  or 
fancy  shapes;    cook  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water  or 
stock.     Drain,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cooked  green  peas, 
and  season  with  buttei,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Carrots,  Poulette  Sauce 
Wash,  scrape,  and  cut  carrots  in  strips,  cubes,  or  fancy 
shapes,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  five  minutes; 


VEGETABLES  289 

drain,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  to  which  is  added 
one-half  tablespoon  butter,  until  soft.  Add  to  recipe  for 
sauce  given  under  Macedoine  of  Vegetables  k  la  Poulett<e 
(see  p.  308). 

Cauliflower 

Cauliflowers  comprise  the  stalks  and  flowerets  of  a  plant 
which  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  Brussels  sprouts  and 
cabbage  ;  tliey  may  be  obtained  throughout  the  year,  but  are 
cheapest  and  best  in  September  and  October.  In  selecting 
cauliflowers,  choose  those  with  white  heads  and  fresh  green 
leaves ;  if  dark  spots  are  on  the  heads,  they  are  not  fresh. 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Remove  leaves,  cut  off  stalk,  and  soak  thirty  minutes  (head 
down)  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  (head  up)  twenty  min- 
utes or  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water ;  drain,  separate 
flowerets,  and  reheat  in  one  and  one-half  cups  White 
Sauce  I. 

Cauliflower  k  la  HoUandaise 

Prepare  as  for  Creamed  Cauliflower,  using  HoUandaise 
Sauce  I  instead  of  White  Sauce. 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Place  a  whole  cooked  cauliflower  on  a  dish  for  serving, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  place  on  oven  grate  to  brown 
crumbs ;  remove  from  oven  and  pour  one  cup  Thin  White 
Sauce  around  cauliflower. 

Cauliflower  k  la  Parmesan 

Prepare  as  Cauliflower  au  Gratin.  Sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese  before  covering  with  crumbs. 

Cauliflower  k  la  Huntington 

Prepare  cauliflower  as  for  boiled  cauliflower,  and  steam 
until  soft.  Separate  in  pieces  and  pour  over  the  following 
sauce : 

Mix  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  mustard,  one  and  one- 
four'ih  teaspoons  salt,  one  teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  and 


290  BOSTON  COOKING-SOHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika.  Add  yolks  three  eggs  slightly 
beaten,  one-fourth  cup  olive  oil,  and  one-half  cup  vinegar  in 
which  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot  has  infused 
five  minutes.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture  thickens. 
Remove  from  range,  and  add  one-half  tablespoon  curry  pow- 
der, two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  one  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

Celery 

Celery  may  be  obtained  from  last  of  July  until  April.  It 
is  best  and  cheapest  in  December.  Celery  stalks  are  green' 
vhile  growing  ;  but  the  white  celery  seen  in  market  has  been 
bleached,  with  the  exception  of  Kalamazoo  variety,  which 
grows  white.  To  prepare  celery  for  table,  cut  off  roots  and 
leaves,  separate  stalks,  wash,  scrape,  and  chill  in  ice-water. 
By  adding  a  slice  of  lemon  to  ice-water  celery  is  kept  white 
and  made  crisp.  If  tops  of  stalks  are  gashed  several  times 
before  putting  in  water,  they  will  curl  back  and  make  celery 
look  more  attractive. 

Celery  in  "White  Sance 

"Wasl/^,  scrape,  and  cut  celery  stalks  in  one-inch  pieces; 
cook  twenty  minutes  or  until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water ; 
drain,  and  to  two  cups  celery  add  one  cup  White  Sauce  I. 
This  is  a  most  satisfactory  way  of  using  the  outer  stalks  of 
celery. 

Pried  Celery,  Tomato  Sauce 

Wash  and  scrape  celery,  cut  in  three-inch  pieces,  dip  in 
batter,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve 
with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Batter.  Mix  one-half  cup  bread  flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  few  grains  pepper,  one-third  cup  milk,  and  one 
egg  well  beaten. 

Chiccory  or  Endive 

Chiccory  or  endive  may  be  obtained  throughout  the  year, 
but  during  January,  February,  March,  and  April  supply  is 
imported.     It  is  used  only  for  salads. 


VEGETABLES  291 

Com 

Corn  may  be  found  in  market  from  first  of  June  to  first 
of  October.  Until  native  corn  appears  it  is  the  most  unsatis- 
factory vegetable.  Native  corn  is  obtainable  the  last  of 
July,  but  is  most  abundant  and  cheapest  in  August.  Among 
the  best  varieties  are  Crosby  for  early  corn  and  BJvergreen 
for  late  corn. 

Boiled  Green  Corn 

Remove  husks  and  silky  threads.  Cook  ten  to  twenty 
minutes  in  boiling  water.  ^  Place  on  platter  covered  with 
napkin ;  draw  corners  of  napkin  over  corn ;  or  cut  from  cob 
and  season  with  butter  and  salt. 

Suocotasli 

Cut  hot  boiled  corn  from  cob,  add  equal  quantity  of  hot 
boiled  shelled  beans;  season  with  butter  and  salt;  reheat 
before  serving. 

Corn  Oysters 

Grate  raw  corn  from  cobs.  To  one  cup  pulp  add  one  well- 
beaten  egg,  one-fourth  cup  flour,  and  season  highly  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  in  deep  fat,  or  cook 
on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle.  They  should  be  made  about 
the  size  of  large  oysters. 

Corn  Fritters 
1  can  corn  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  flour  '  ^  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  2  eggs 

Chop  corn,  drain,  and  add  dry  ingredients  mixed  and 
sifted,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick,  and  fold 
in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Cook  in  a  frying-pan  in  fresh 
hot  lard.     Drain  on  paper. 

Corn  k  la  Southern 
To  one  can  chopped  corn  add  two  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and  one  pint  scalded  milk ; 
turn  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake  in  slow  oven 
until  firm. 


292     BOSTON  COOKING- SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chestnuts 
French  and  Italian  chestnuts  are  served  in  place  of  vege- 
tables. 

Chestnut  Purfee 

Remove  shells  from  chestnuts,  cook  until  soft  in  boiling 
salted  water ;  drain,  mash,  moisten  with  scalded  milk,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  beat  until  light.  Chestnuts 
are  often  boiled,  riced,  and  piled  lightly  in  centre  of  dish, 
then  surrounded  by  meat. 

Baked  Chestnuts 

Remove  shells  from  one  pint  chestnuts,  put  in  a  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  Chicken  Stock  highly  seasoned  with  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  bake  until  soft,  keeping  covered  until  nearly 
done.  There  should  be  a  small  quantity  of  stock  in  pan  to 
serve  with  chestnuts. 

Cucumbers 

Cucumbers  may  be  obtained  throughout  the  year,  and  are 
generally  served  raw.  During  the  latter  part  of  the  summer 
they  are  gathered  and  pickled  for  subsequent  use.  Small 
pickled  cucumbers  are  called  gherkins. 

Sliced  Cucumbers 

Remove  thick  slices  from  both  ends  and  cut  off  a  thick 
paring,  as  the  cucumber  contains  a  bitter  principle,  a  large 
quantity  of  which  lies  near  the  skin  and  stem  end.  Cut 
in  thin  slices  and  keep  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  serve. 
Drain,  and  cover  with  crushed  ice  for  serving. 

Boiled  Cucumbers 

Old  cucumbers  may  be  pared,  cut  in  pieces,  cooked  until 
soft  in  boiling  salted  water,  drained,  mashed,  and  seasoned, 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Fried  Cucumbers 

Pare  cucumbers  and  cut  lengthwise  in  one-third  inch  slices. 
Dry  between  towels,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 


VEGETABLES  293 

Stuffed  Cucumbers 

Pare  three  cucumbers,  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  remove 
seeds,  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  thirty  minutes.  Drain, 
wipe,  and  fill  with  force  meat,  using  recipe  for  Chicken 
Force-meat  I  or  II,  substituting  veal  for  chicken.  Place 
upright  on  a  trivet  in  a  saucepan.  Half  surround  with  White 
Stock,  cover,  and  cook  forty  minutes.  Place  on  thin  slices 
of  dry  toast,  cut  in  circular  shapes,  and  pour  around  one  and 
one-half  cups  Bechamel  Sauce.  Serve  as  a  vegetable  course 
or  an  entree. 

Fried  Eggplant  I 

Pare  an  egg-plant  and  cut  in  very  thin  slices.  Sprinkle 
slices  with  salt  and  pile  on  a  plate.  Cover  with  a  weight  to 
express  the  juice,  and  let  stand  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Dredge  with  flour  and  saute  slowly  in  butter  until  crisp  and 
brown.     Eggplant  is  in  season  from  September  to  February. 

Fried  Eggplant  II 

Pare  an  egg  plant,  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  and  soak 
over  night  in  cold  salted  water.  Drain,  let  stand  in  cold 
water  one-half  hour,  drain  again,  and  dry  between  towels. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  batter,  or  dip  in  flour, 
egg,  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Stuffed  Eggplant 

Cook  eggplant  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  to 
cover.  Cut  a  slice  from  top,  and  with  a  spoon  remove  pulp, 
taking  care  not  to  work  too  closely  to  skin.  Chop  pulp, 
and  add  one  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs.  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion, 
and  cook  five  minutes,  or  try  out  three  slices  of  bacon,  us- 
ing bacon  fat  in' place  of  butter.  Add  to  chopped  pulp  and 
bread,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  necessary  moisten 
with  a  little  stock  or  water ;  cook  five  minutes,  cool  slightly, 
and  add  one  beaten  egg.  Refill  eggplant,  cover  with  but- 
tered bread  crumbs,  aad  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven^ 


294  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Scalloped  Eggplant 

Pare  an  eggplant  and  cut  in  two-thirds  inch  cubes. 
Cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  until  soft,  then 
drain.  Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half  onion, 
finely  chopped,  until  yellow,  add  three-fourths  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  parsley  and  eggplant.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 

Greens 

Hothouse  beet  greens  and  dandelions  appear  in  market 
the  first  of  March,  when  they  command  a  high  price.  Those 
grown  out  of  doors  are  in  season  from  middle  of  May  to 
first  of  July. 

Boiled  Beet  Greens 

Wash  thoroughly  and  scrape  roots,  cutting  off  ends. 
Drain,  and  cook  one  hour  or  until  tender  in  a  small  quantity 
boiling  salted  water.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Serve  with  vinegar. 

Dandelions 

Wash  thoroughly,  remove  roots,  drain,  and  cook  one  hour 
or  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Allow  two  quarts 
water  to  one  peck  dandelions.  Season  with  butter,  bait, 
and  pepper.     Serve  with  vinegar. 

Lettuce 

Lettuce  is  obtainable  all  the  year,  and  is  especially 
valuable  during  the  winter  and  spring,  when  other  green 
vegetables  in  market  command  a  high  price.  Although 
containing  but  little  nutriment,  it  is  useful  for  the  large 
quantity  of  water  and  potash  salts  that  it  contains,  and 
assists  in  stimulating  the  appetite.  Curly  lettuce  is  of  less 
value  than  Tennis  Ball,  but  makes  an  effective  garnish. 

Lettuce  should  be  separated  by  removing  leaves  from 
stalk  (discarding  wilted  outer  leaves),  washed,  kept  in  cold 
water  until  crisp,  drained,  and  so  placed  on  a  towel  that 
water  may  drop  *rom  leaves.  A  bag  made  from  white 
mosquito  netting  is  useful  for  drying  lettuce.     Wash  lettuce 


VEGETABLES  295 

leaves,  place  in  bag,  and  hang  in  lower  part  of  ice-box  to 
drain.  Wire  baskets  are  used  for  the  same  purpose.  Ar- 
range lettuce  for  serving  in  nearly  its  original  shape. 

Leeks  on  Toast 
Wash  and  trim  leeks,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
soft,  and  drain.     Arrange  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast  and 
pour  over  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Onions 

The  onion  belongs  to  the  same  family  (Lily)  as  do  shallot, 
garlic,  leek,  and  chive.  Onions  are  cooked  and  served  as  a 
vegetable.  They  are  wholesome,  and  contain  considerable 
nutriment,  but  are  objectionable  on  acccount  of  the  strong 
odor  they  impart  to  the  breath,  due  to  volatile  substances 
absorbed  by  the  blood,  and  by  the  blood  carried  to  the 
lungs,  where  they  are  set  free.  The  common  garden  onion 
is  obtainable  throughout  the  year,  the  new  ones  appearing 
in  market  about  the  first  of  June.  In  large  centres  Bermuda 
and  Spanish  onions  are  procurable  from  March  1st  to  June 
1st,  and  are  of  delicate  flavor. 

Shallot,  leek,  garlic,  and  chive  are  principally  used  to 
give  additional  flavor  to  food.  Shallot,  garlic,  and  chive 
are  used,  to  some  extent,  in  making  salads. 

Boiled  Onions 

Put  onions  in  cold  water  and  remove  skins  while  under 
water.  Drain,  put  in  a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  boiling 
salted  water;  boil  five  minutes,  drain,  and  again  cover  with 
boiling  salted  water.  Cook  one  hour  or  until  soft,  but  not 
broken.  Drain,  add  a  small  quantity  of  milk,  cook  five 
minutes,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Onions  in  Cream 

Prepare  and  cook  as  Boiled  Onions,  changing  the  water 
twice  during  boiling ;  drain,  and  cover  with  Cream  or  Thin 
White  Sauce. 

Scalloped  Onions 

Cut  Boiled  Onions  in  quarters.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  cover  with  White   Sauce  I,   sprinkle  with  buttered 


296  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

cracker  crumbs^  and  place  on  centre  grate  in  oven  to  brown 
crumbs. 

Glazed  Onions 

Peel  small  silver  skinned  onions,  and  cook  in  boiling 
water  fifteen  minutes.  Drain,  dry  on  cheese-cloth,  put  in  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  add  highly  seasoned  brown  stock  to 
cover  bottom  of  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  until 
soft,  basting  with  stock  in  pan. 

Fried  Onions 
Remove  skins  from  four  medium-sized  onions.  Cut  in 
thin  slices  and  put  in  a  hot  omelet  pan  with  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  butter.  Cook  until  brown,  occasionally  shaking 
pan  that  onions  may  not  burn,  or  turn  onions,  using  a  fork. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  one  minute  before  taking  from  fire. 

French  Fried  Onions 

Peel  onions,  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  and  separate 
into  rings.  Dip  in  milk,  drain,  and  dip  in  flour.  Fry  in 
deep  fat,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Stuffed  Onions 

Remove  skins  from  onions,  and  parboil  ten  minutes  in 
boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Turn  upside  down  to  cool, 
and  remove  part  of  centres.  Fill  cavities  with  equal  parts 
of  finely  chopped  cooked  chicken,  stale  soft  bread  crumbs, 
and  finely  chopped  onion  which  was  removed,  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  moistened  with  cream  or  melted  butter. 
Place  in  buttered  shallow  baking-pan,  sprinkle  with  buttered 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  onions  are  soft. 

Creamed  Oyster  Plant  (Salsify) 

"Wash,  scrape,  and  put  at  once  into  cold  acidulated  water 
to  prevent  discoloration.  Cut  in  inch  slices,  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  soft,  drain,  and  add  to  White  Sauce  I. 
Oyster  plant  is  in  season  from  October  to  March. 

Salsify  Fritters 
Cook  oyster  plant  as  for  Creamed  Oyster  Plant.     Mash, 
season  with  butter,   salt,  and  pepper.     Shape  in  small  flat 
oaketi)  roll  in  flour,  and  saute  in  butter. 


VEGETABLES  297 

Parsnips 

Parsnips  are  not  so  commonly  served  as  other  vegetables ; 
however,  they  often  accompany  a  boiled  dinner.  They  are 
raised  mostly  for  feeding  cattle.  Unless  young  they  con- 
tain a  large  amount  of  woody  fibre,  which  extends  through 
centre  of  roots  and  makes  them  undesirable  as  food. 

Parsnips  with  Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Wash  and  scrape  parsnips,  and  cut  in  pieces  two  inches 
long  and  one-half  inch  wide  and  thick.  Cook  five  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  water,  or  until  soft.  Drain,  and  to  two 
cups  add  one  cup  Drawn  Butter  Sauce. 

Parsnip  Fritters 

Wash  parsnips  and  cook  forty- five  minutes  in  boiling 
salted  water.  Drain,  plunge  into  cold  water,  when  skins 
will  be  found  to  slip  off  easily.  Mash,  season  with  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper,  shape  in  small  flat  round  cakes,  roll  in  flour, 
and  saute  in  butter. 

Peas 

Peas  contain,  next  to  beans,  the  largest  percentage  of 
proteid  of  any  of  the  vegetables,  and  when  young  are  easy 
of  digestion.  They  appear  in  market  as  early  as  April, 
coming  from  Florida  and  California,  and  although  high 
in  price  are  hardly  worth  buying,  having  been  picked  so 
long.  Native  peas  may  be  obtained  the  middle  of  June, 
and  last  until  the  first  of  September.  The  early  June  are 
small  peas,  contained  in  a  small  pod.  McLean,  the  best 
peas,  are  small  peas  in  large  flat  pods.  Champion  peas  are 
large,  and  the  pods  are  well  filled,  but  they  lack  sweetness. 
Marrowfat  peas  are  the  largest  in  the  market,  and  are 
usually  sweet. 

Boiled  Peas 

Remove  peas  from  pods,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let 
stand  one-half  hour.  Skim  off  undeveloped  peas  which  rise 
to  top  of  water,  and  drain  remaining  peas.  Cook  until  soft 
in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water,  adding  salt  the  last  fif- 


298  BOSTOl^  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

teen  minutes  of  cooking.  (Consult  Time  Table  for  Cooking, 
p.  28).  There  should  be  but  little,  if  any,  water  to  drain 
from  peas  when  they  are  cooked.  Season  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper.  If  peas  have  lost  much  of  their  natural  sweet- 
ness, they  are  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  small  amount 
of  sugar. 

Creamed  Peas 

Drain  Boiled  Peas,  and  to  two  cups  peas  add  three-fourths 
cup  White  Sauce  II.  Canned  peas  are  often  drained,  rinsed, 
and  reheated  in  this  way. 

Pea  Timbales 

Drain  and  rinse  one  can  peas,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
To  one  cup  pea  pulp  add  two  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  two-thirds  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper,  few  grains  cayenne,  and  few  drops  onion  juice. 
Turn  into  buttered  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  until  firm.  Serve  with  one 
cup  white  sauce  to  which  is  added  one-third  cup  canned  peas 
drained  and  rinsed. 

Stuffed  Peppers  I 

6  green  peppers  }4  cup  Brown  Sauce 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  3  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

4  tablespoons  chopped  mushrooms     Buttered  bread  crumbs 
4  tablespoons  lean  raw  ham,  finely  chopped 

Cut  a  slice  from  stem  end  of  each  pepper,  remove  seeds, 
and  parboil  peppers,  fifteen  minutes. 

Cook  onion  in  butter  three  minutes ;  add  mushrooms  and 
ham,  and  cook  one  minute,  then  add  Brown  Sauce  and  bread 
crumbs.  Cool  mixture,  sprinkle  peppers  with  salt,  fill  with 
cooked  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake 
ten  minutes.     Serve  on  toast  with  Brown  Sauce. 

Stuffed  Peppers  II 
Prepare  peppers  as  for  Stuffed  Peppers  I.     Fill  with  equsl 
parts  of   finely  chopped  cold  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  and 
softened  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  onion  juice,  salt,  and 
pepper. 


VEGETABLES  299 

Pumpkins 
Pumpkins  are  boiled  or  steamed  same  as  squash,  but  re- 
quire longer  cooking.     They  are  principally  used  for  making 
pies. 

Radishes 

Radishes  may  be  obtained  throughout  the  year.  There 
are  round  and  long  varieties,  the  small  round  ones  being 
considered  best.  They  are  bought  in  bunches,  six  or  seven 
constituting  a  bunch.  Radishes  are  used  merely  for  a  relish, 
and  are  served  uncooked.  To  prepare  radishes  for  table, 
remove  leaves,  stems,  and  tip  end  of  root,  scrape  roots,  and 
serve  on  crushed  ice.  Round  radishes  look  very  attractive 
cut  to  imitate  tuhps,  when  they  should  not  be  scraped ;  to 
accomplish  this,  begin  at  root  end  and  make  six  incisions 
through  skin  running  three-fourths  length  of  radish.  Pass 
knife  under  sections  of  skin,  and  cut  down  as  far  as  incisions 
extend.  Place  in  cold  water,  and  sections  of  skin  will  fold 
back,  giving  radish  a  tulip-like  appearance. 

Spinach 

Spinach  is  cheapest  and  best  in  early  summer,  but  is  ob- 
tainable throughout  the  year.  It  gives  variety  to  winter  diet, 
when  most  green  vegetables  are  expensive  and  of  inferior 
quality. 

Boiled  Spinach 

Remove  roots,  carefully  pick  over  (discarding  wilted 
leaves),  and  wash  in  several  waters  to  be  sure  that  it  is  free 
from  all  sand.  When  young  and  tender  put  in  a  stewpan, 
allow  to  heat  gradually,  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes,  or 
until  tender,  in  its  own  juices.  Old  spinach  is  better  cooked 
in  boiling  salted  water,  allowing  two  quarts  water  to  one 
peck  spinach.  Drain  thoroughly,  chop  finely,  reheat,  and 
season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Mound  on  a  serving 
dish  and  garnish  with  slices  of  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  and  toast 
points.  The  green  color  of  spinach  is  better  retained  by 
cooking  in  an  uncovered  vessel,  in  a  large  quantity  of  water 
to  which  has  been  added  one-third  teaspoon  soda. 


300  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

Spinach  k  la  Bechamel 
Prepare  one-half  peck  Boiled  Spinach.  Put  three  table- 
spoons butter  in  hot  omelet  pan  ;  when  melted,  add  chopped 
spinach,  cook  three  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons 
flour,  stir  thoroughly,  and  add  gradually  three-fourths  cup 
milk  J  cook  five  minutes. 

Pur^e  of  Spinach 

Wash  and  pick  over  one-half  peck  spinach.  Cook  in  an 
uncovered  vessel  with  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  salted 
water  to  which  is  added  one-third  teaspoon  soda  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  sugar.  Drain,  chop  finely,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Reheat,  add  three  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  and  one-half  cup  cream.  Arrange  on  serving  dish  and 
garnish  with  yolk  and  white  of  "  hard-boiled  "  egg  and  fried 
bread  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Spinach  (French  Style) 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  peck  spinach,  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain,  and  finely  chop. 
Reheat  in  hot  pan  with  four  tablespoons  butter  to  which 
have  been  added  three  tablespoons  flour  and  two-thirds  cup 
Chicken  Stock.  Season  with  one  teaspoon  powdered  sugar, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  gratings  each  of  nutmeg  and  lemon 
rind. 

Squash 

Summer  squash,  which  are  in  market  during  the  summer 
months,  should  be  young,  tender,  and  thin  skinned.  The 
common  varieties  are  the  white  round  and  yellow  crook- 
neck.  Some  of  the  winter  varieties  appear  in  market  as 
early  as  the  middle  of  August ;  among  the  most  common 
are  Marrow,  Turban,  and  Hubbard.  Turban  and  Hubbard 
are  usually  drier  than  Marrow.  Marrow  and  Turban  have 
a  thin  shell,  which  may  be  pared  off  before  cooking.  Hub- 
bard Squash  has  a  very  hard  shell,  which  must  be  split  in 
order  to  separate  squash  in  pieces,  and  squash  then  cooked 
in  the  shell.  In  selecting  winter  squash,  see  that  it  is  heavy 
in  proportion  to  its  size. 


VEGETABLES  301 

Boiled  Summer  Squash 

Wash  squash  and  cut  in  thick  slices  or  quarters.     Cook 

twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water,  or  until  soft.     Turn 

in  a  cheese  cloth  placed  over  a  colander,  drain,  and  wring  in 

cheese-cloth.    Mash,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Fried  Summer  Squash  I 

Wash,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  slices.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in 
hot  fat,  and  drain. 

Fried  Summer  Squash  II 

Follow  recipe  for  Fried  Eggplant  I. 

Steamed  Winter  Squash 

Cut  in  pieces,  remove  seeds  and  stringy  portion,  and  pare. 
Place  in  a  strainer  and  cook  thirty  minutes,  or  until  soft, 
over  boiling  water.  Mash,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper.     If  lacking  in  sweetness,  add  a  small  quantity  of 

sugar. 

Boiled  Winter  Squash 

Prepare  as  for  Steamed  Winter  Squash.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water,  drain,  mash,  and  season.  Unless  squash  is 
very  dry,  it  is  much  better  steamed  than  boiled. 

Baked  Winter  Squash  I 

Cut  in  pieces  two  inches  square,  remove  seeds  and  stringy 
portion,  place  in  a  dripping-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  allow  for  each  square  one-half  teaspoon  molas- 
ses and  one-half  teaspoon  melted  butter.  Bake  fifty  min- 
utes, or  until  soft,  in  a  moderate  oven,  keeping  covered  the 
first  half-hour  of  cooking.     Serve  in  the  shell. 

Baked  Winter  Squash  II 

Cut  squash  in  halves,  remove  seeds  and  stringy  portioa, 
place  in  a  dripping-pan,  cover,  and  bake  two  hours,  or  until 
soft,  in  a  slow  oven.  Kemovefrom  shell,  mash,  and  season 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 


302       -     BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes  are  obtainable  throughout  the  year,  but  are 
cheapest  and  best  in  September.  Hothouse  tomatoes  are 
in  market  during  the  winter,  and  command  a  very  high 
price,  sometimes  retailing  for  one  and  one-half  dollars  a 
pound. 

Southern  tomatoes  appear  as  early  as  May  1st,  and  al- 
though of  good  color,  lack  flavor.  Of  the  many  varieties  of 
tomatoes,  Acme  is  among  the  best. 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Wipe,  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  let  stand  one  minute, 
when  they  may  be  easily  skinned.  Chill  thoroughly,  and 
cut  in  one-third  inch  slices. 

Ste-w^ed  Tomatoes 

Wipe,  pare,  cut  in  pieces,  put  in  stewpan,  and  cook 
slowly  twenty  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Remove  contents  from  one  can  tomatoes  and  drain  toma- 
toes from  some  of  their  liquor.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  sugar  if  preferred  sweet. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs,  cover  with  tomatoes,  and  sprinkle  top  thickly 
with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are 
Brown. 

Broiled  Tomatoes 

Wipe  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  cut  off  a  thin  slice  from 
rounding  part  of  each  half.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  place  in  a  well- 
buttered  broiler,  and  broil  six  to  eight  minutes. 

Tomatoes  k  la  Crdme 

Wipe,  peel,  and  slice  three  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper, 'dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  butter.  Place 
on  a  hot  plr.tter  and  pour  over  them  one  cup  White  Sauce  I. 


VEGETABLES  303 


Devilled  Tomatoes 


3  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  mustard 
Salt  and  pepper  X  teaspoon  salt 
Flour  Few  grains  cayenne 
Butter  for  sautding  Yolk  1  "  hard-boiled  "  egg 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  agg 

2  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  2  tablepoons  vinegar 

Wipe,  peel,  and  cut  tomatoes  in  slices.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  butter. 
Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  over  the  dressing  made  by 
creaming  the  butter,  adding  dry  ingredients,  yolk  of  egg 
rubbed  to  a  paste,  egg  beaten  slightly,  and  vinegar,  then 
cooking  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens. 

Baked  Tomatoes  I 
"Wipe,  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from  stem  end  of  six 
smooth,  medium-sized  tomatoes.  Take  out  seeds  and  pulp, 
and  drain  off  most  of  the  liquid.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
"bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops 
onion  juice,  and  refill  tomatoes  with  mixture.  Place  in  a 
buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Two  tablespoons,  each, 
chopped  green  pepper  and  onion  are  an  improvement. 

Baked  Tomatoes  II 

Wipe  six  small,  selected  tomatoes  and  make  two  one- 
inch  gashes  on  blossom  end  of  each,  having  gashes  cross 
each  other  at  right  angles.  Place  in  granite-ware  pan  and 
bake  until  thoroughly  heated.  Serve  with  sauce  for  Devilled 
Tomatoes,  adding,  just  before  serving,  one  tablespoon  heavy 
cream. 

^     Stu£fed  Tomatoes 

Wipe,  and  remove  thin  slices  from  stem  end  of  six  me- 
dium-sized tomatoes.  Take  out  seeds  and  pulp,  sprinkle 
inside  of  tomatoes  with  salt,  invert,  and  let  stand  one-half 
hour.  Cook  five  minutes  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one- 
half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion.  Add  one-half  cup 
finely  chopped  cold  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  one-half  cup  stale 
soft  bread  crumbs,  tomato  pulp,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cook  five  minutes,  then  add  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  cook 


304  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

one  minute,  and  refill  tomatoes  with  mixture.  Place  in  but- 
tered pan,  sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Turnips 

Turnips  are  best  during  the  fall  and  winter;  towards 
spring  they  become  corky,  and  are  then  suitable  only  for 
stews  and  flavoring.  The  Ruta-baga,  a  large  yellow  turnip, 
is  one  of  the  best  varieties ;  the  large  white  French  turnip 
and  the  small  flat  Purple  Top  are  ako  used. 

Mashed  Turnip 

Wash  and  pare  turnips,  cut  in  slices  or  quarters,  and  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain,  mash,  and  season 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Creamed  Turnip 

Wash  turnips,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes.  Cook  three 
cups  cubes  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
soft.     Drain,  and  add  one  cup  White  Sauce  I. 

Turnip  Croquettes 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  in  quarters  new  French  turnips.  Steam 
until  tender,  mash,  pressing  out  all  water  that  is  possible. 
This  is  best  accomplished  by  wringing  in  cheese-cloth.  Sea- 
son one  and  one-fourth  cups  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add 
yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Cool,  shape  in  small 
croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in 
deep  fat,   and  drain. 

Stewed  Mushrooms 

Brush  one-half  pound  mushrooms.  Remove  stems,  scrape, 
and  cut  in  pieces.  Peel  caps,  and  break  in  pieces.  Melt 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  mushrooms,  cook  two  min- 
utes ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
add  one-half  cup  hot  water  or  stock.  Cook  slowly  five  min- 
utes. 

Ste-wed  Mushrooms  in  Cream 

Prepare  mushrooms  as  for  Stewed  Mushrooms.  Cook  with 
three-fourths  cup  cream  instead  of  using  water  or  stock. 


VEGETABLES  805 

Add  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg,  pour  over  small  finger- 
shaped  pieces  of  dry  toast,  and  garnish  with  toast  points 
and  parsley. 

Broiled  Mushrooms 

Wash  mushrooms^  remove  stems,  and  place  caps  in  a  but- 
tered broiler  and  broil  five  minutes,  having  cap  side  down 
first  half  of  broiling.  Serve  on  circular  pieces  of  buttered 
dry  toast.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  each  cap,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  as  soon  as  butter  has  melted. 
Care  must  be  taken,  in  removing  from  broiler,  to  keep  mush- 
rooms cap  side  up,  to  prevent  loss  of  juices. 

Baked  Mushrooms  in  Cream 

Wash  twelve  large  mushrooms.  Remove  stems,  and  peel 
caps.  Put  in  a  shallow  buttered  pan,  cap  side  up.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dot  over  with  butter;  add  two- 
thirds  cup  cream.  Bake  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Place 
on  pieces  of  dry  toast,  and  pour  over  them  cream  remaining 
in  pan. 

Sauted  Mushrooms 

Wash,  remove  stems,  peel  caps,  and  break  in  pieces; 
there  should  be  one  cup  of  mushrooms.  Put  two  tablespoons 
butter  in  a  hot  omelet  pan ;  when  melted,  add  mushrooms 
which  have  been  dredged  with  flour,  few  drops  onion  juice, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  pepper,  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one- 
fourth  cup  boiling  water.  Cook  two  minutes,  and  serve  on 
dry  toast. 

Mushrooms  k  la  Sabine 

Wash  one-half  pound  mushrooms,  remove  stems,  and  peel 
caps.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
cook  three  minutes  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  with  two  table- 
spoons butter.  Add  one  and  one-third  cups  Brown  Sauce, 
and  cook  slowly  five .  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  three  table- 
spoons grated  cheese.  As  soon  as  cheese  is  melted,  arrange 
mushrooms  on  pieces  of  toast,  and  pour  over  sauce.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 


306  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Mushrooms  k  I'Algonquin 

Brush  large  selected  mushrooms.  Remove  stems,  peel 
caps,  and  saute  caps  in  butter.  Place  in  a  small  buttered 
shallow  pan,  cap  side  being  up;  place  on  each  a  large 
oyster,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  on  each  a 
bit  of  butter.  Cook  in  a  hot  oven  until  oysters  are  plump. 
Serve  with  Brown  or  Bechamel  Sauce. 

Mushrooms  AUamande 

Brush  mushroom  caps  and  saute  in  butter.  Put  together 
in  pairs,  cover  with  AUamande  Sauce,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg, 
and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper. 

AUamande  Sauce.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
one-third  cup  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  White 
Stock ;  then  add  one  egg  yolk  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  lemon  juice. 

Stuffed  Mushrooms 

Brush  twelve  large  mushrooms.  Remove  stems,  chop 
finely,  and  peel  caps.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  shallot  and  chopped 
stems,  then  cook  ten  minutes.  Add  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons flour,  chicken  stock  to  moisten,  a  slight  grating  of 
nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cool  mixture  and  fill  caps,  well  round- 
ing over  top.  Cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mushrooms  under  Glass  I 

Cover  the  bottom  of  an  individual  baking-dish  with  cir- 
cular pieces  of  toasted  bread.  Arrange  mushroom  caps  on 
toast,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  over  with  butter, 
and  pour  over  a  small  quantity  of  hot  cream.  Cover,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes. 

Individual  dishes  with  bell-shaped  glass  covers  may  be 
bought  at  first-class  kitchen  furnishers.  These  dishes  are 
sent  to  table  with  covers  left  on,  that  the  fine  flavor  of  the 
prepared  viand  may  all  be  retained. 


VEGETABLES  307 

Mushrooms  under  Glsiss  H 
2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

^  tablespoon  lemon  juice    Bread 
1^  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  heavy  cream 

Few  grains  pepper  Sherry  wine 

Mushrooms 

Cream  the  butter,  add  lemon  juice  drop  by  drop,  salt, 
pepper,  and  parsley.  Cut  bread  in  circular  piece  three- 
eighths  inch  thick,  then  toast.  Pat  one-half  of  the  sauce 
on  the  under  side  of  toast;  put  toast  on  a  small  baking- 
dish,  pile  mushroom  caps  cleaned  and  pealed  in  conical 
shape  on  toast,  and  pour  over  cream.  Cover  with  glass 
and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes,  adding  more  cream  if 
necessary.  Just  before  serving  add  one  teaspoon  Sherry 
wine. 

Vegetable  Souffle 

1^  cup  butter  1  cup  cooked  vegetables 

3^  cup  flour  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  — 

y^  cup  cream  carrots,  turnips,  or  onions 

1^  cup  water  in  which  vege-  Yolks  3  eggs 

tables  were  cooked  Whites  3  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  cream  and 
water ;  add  vegetable,  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick  and 
lemon  colored,  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff-, 
then  add  seasonings.  Turn  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Curried  Vegetables 

Cook  one  cup  each  potatoes  and  carrots,  and  one-half  cup 
turnip,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft. 
Drain,  add  one-half  cup  canned  peas,  and  pour  over  a  sauce 
made  by  cooking  two  tablespoons  butter  with  two  slices 
onion  five  minutes,  removing  onion,  adding  two  tablespoons 
flour,  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  curry 
powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  few  grains  celery  salt, 
and  pouring  on  gradually  one  cap  scalded  milk.  Sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley. 


308  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Macedoine  of  Vegetables  k  la  Poulette 

Clean  carrots  and  turnips  and  cut  into  strips  or  fancy 
shapes ;  there  should  be  one  and  one-fourth  cups  carrots  and 
one-half  cup  turnips.  Cook  separately  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  soft.  Drain,  and  add  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
cooked  peas.  Reheat  in  a  sauce  made  of  three  tablespoons 
butter,  three  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  chicken  stock,  and 
one-half  cup  cream.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  just  before  serving  add  yolks  two  eggs  and  one-half 
tablespoon  lemon  juice. 


Macedoine  of  Vegetables  a  la  Poulette.  —  Page  308. 


Stufi-ted  Peppeks.  —  Page  298o 


POTATOES  309 


CHAPTER  XX 
POTATOES 

COMPOSITION 

Water,  78.9%  Proteid,  2.1% 

Starch,  18%  Mineral  matter,  .9% 

Fat  1.% 

POTATOES  stand  pre-eminent  among  the  vegetables 
used  for  food.  They  are  tubers  belonging  to  the 
Nightshade  family ;  their  hardy  growth  renders  them  easy 
of  cultivation  in  almost  any  soil  or  climate,  and,  resisting 
early  frosts,  they  may  be  raised  in  a  higher  latitude  than  the 
cereals. 

They  give  needed  bulk  to  food  rather  than  nutriment, 
and,  lacking  in  proteid,  should  be  used  in  combination  with 
meat,  fish,  or  eggs. 

Potatoes  contain  an  acrid  juice,  the  greater  part  of  which 
lies  near  the  skin  ;  it  passes  into  the  water  during  boiling  of 
potatoes,  and  escapes  with  the  steam  from  a  baked  potato. 

Potatoes  are  best  in  the  fall,  and  keep  well  through  the 
winter.  By  spring  the  starch  is  partially  changed  to  dex- 
trin, giving  the  potatoes  a  sweetness,  and  when  cooked  a 
waxiness.  The  same  change  takes  place  when  potatoes  are 
frozen.  To  prevent  freezing,  keep  a  pail  of  cold  water 
standing  near  them. 

Potatoes  keep  best  in  a  cool  dry  cellar,  in  barrels  or  piled 
in  a  bin.  When  sprouts  appear  they  should  be  removed; 
receiving  their  nourishment  from  the  starch,  they  deteriorate 
the  potato. 

New  potatoes  may  be  compared  to  unripe  fruit,  the  starch 
grains  not  having  reached  maturity ;  therefore  they  should 
not  be  given  to  children  or  invalids. 


310  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Sweet  potatoes,  although  analogous  to  white  potatoes,  are 
fleshy  roots  of  the  plant,  belong  to  a  different  family  (Con- 
volvulus), and  contain  a  much  larger  percentage  of  sugar. 
Our  own  country  produces  large  quantities  of  sweet  potatoes, 
which  may  be  grown  as  far  north  as  Kew  Jersey  and  South- 
ern Michigan.  Kiln-dried  sweet  potatoes  are  the  best,  as 
they  do  not  so  quickly  spoil. 

Baked  Potatoes 

Select  smooth,  medium-sized  potatoes.  Wash,  using  a 
vegetable  brush,  and  place  in  dripping-pan.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  forty  minutes  or  until  soft,  remove  from  oven,  and  serve 
at  once.  If  allowed  to  stand,  unless  the  skin  is  ruptured  for 
escape  of  steam,  they  become  soggy.  Properly  baked  pota- 
toes are  more  easily  digested  than  potatoes  cooked  in  any 
other  way,  as  some  of  the  starch  is  changed  to  dextrin  by 
the  intense  heat.  They  are  better  cooked  in  boiling  water 
than  baked  in  a  slow  oven. 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Wash,  pare,  and  drop 
at  once  in  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration;  soak  one- 
half  hour  in  the  fall,  and  one  to  two  hours  in  winter  and 
spring.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft,  which  is 
easily  determined  by  piercing  with  a  skewer.  For  seven 
potatoes  allow  one  tablespoon  salt,  and  boiling  water  to 
cover.  Drain  from  water,  and  keep  uncovered  in  warm 
place  until  serving  time.  Avoid  sending  to  table  in  a  cov- 
ered vegetable  dish.  In  boiling  large  potatoes,  it  often 
happens  that  outside  is  soft,  while  centre  is  underdone.  To 
finish  cooking  without  potatoes  breaking  apart,  add  one  pint 
cold  water,  which  drives  heat  to  centre,  thus  accomplishing 
ihe  coolring. 

Rioed  Potatoes 

Force  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer  or  coarse 
strainer.     Serve  lightly  piled  in  a  hot  vegetable  dish. 


POTATOES  311 

Mashed  Potatoes 

To  five  riced  potatoes  add  three  tablespoons  butter,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper,  and  one-third  cup  hot 
milk ;  beat  with  fork  until  creamy,  reheat,  and  pile  lightly 
in  hot  dish. 

Potato  Omelet 

Prepare  Mashed  Potatoes,  turn  in  hot  omelet  pan  greased 
with  one  tablespoon  butter,  spread  evenly,  cook  slowly  until 
browned  underneath,  and  fold  as  an  omelet. 

Potato  Border 

Place  a  buttered  mould  on  platter,  build  around  it  a  wall 
of  hot  Mashed  Potatoes,  using  nine  potatoes,  three  and  one- 
half  inches  high  by  one  inch  deep,  smooth,  and  crease  with 
case  knife.  Remove  mould,  fill  with  creamed  meat  or  fish, 
and  reheat  in  oven  before  serving. 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare,  soak,  and  cut  four  potatoes  in  one-forth  inch 
slices.  Put  a  layer  in  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  dot  over  with  one- 
half  tablespoon  butter;  repeat.  Add  hot  milk  until  it  mav 
be  seen  through  top  layer,  bake  one  and  one-fourth  hours  or 
until  potato  is  soft. 

Potatoes  k  la  Hollandaise 
Wash,  pare,  soak,  and  cut  potatoes  in  one-fourth  inch 
slices,  shape  with  French  vegetable  cutters ;  or  cut  in  one- 
half  inch  cubes.  Cover  three  cups  potato  with  White  Stock, 
cook  until  soft,  and  drain.  Cream  one-third  cup  butter, 
add  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and 
few  grains  of  cayenne.  Add  to  potatoes,  cook  three  minutes, 
and  add  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Chambery  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare,  and  thinly  slice  potatoes,  using  vegetable 
slicer.  Let  stand  one-half  hour  in  cold  water,  then  drain, 
and  dry  between  towels.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a  well 
buttered    iron  frying-pan,   having  pan  three-fourtUs   full, 


S12  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

seasoning  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  brushing 
over  with  melted  butter.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
soft  and  well  browned. 

Potatoes  Baked  in  Half  Shell 
Select  six  medium-sized  potatoes  and  bake,  following 
recipe  for  Baked  Potatoes.  Remove  from  oven,  cut  slice 
from  top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  inside.  Mash,  add  two 
tablespoons  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  three  tablespoons  hot 
milk;  then  add  whites  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Refill  skins, 
and  bake  five  to  eight  minutes  in  very  hot  oven.  Potatoes 
may  be  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese  before  putting  in  oven. 

Duchess  Potatoes 

To  two  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  add  two  tablespoons 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  yolks  of  three  eggs 
slightly  beaten.  Shape,  using  pastry  bag  and  tube,  in 
form  of  baskets,  pyramids,  crowns,  leaves,  roses,  etc. 
Brush  over  with  beaten  egg  diluted  with  one  teaspoon 
water,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Maitre  d'Hdtel  Potatoes 

"Wash,  pare,  and  shape  potatoes  in  balls,  using  a  French 
vegetable  cutter,  or  cut  potatoes  in  one-half  inch  cubes. 
There  should  be  two  cups.  Soak  fifteen  minutes  in  cold 
water,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover  until  soft. 
Drain,  and  add  Maltre  d'Hdtel  Butter. 

Maitre  d'Hdtel  Butter 

Cream  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  teaspoon  lemon 
juice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper, 
and  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Prepare  as  for  Boiled  Potatoes,  and  parboil  ten'  minutes ; 
drain,  and  place  in  pan  in  which  meat  is  roasting;  bake 
until  soft,  basting  with  fat  in  pan  when  basting  meat.  Time 
required  for  baking  about  forty  minutes.  Sweet  potatoes 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


POTATOES  813 

Brabant  Potatoes 

Prepare  same  as  for  Boiled  Potatoes,  using  small  potatoes, 
and  trim  egg-shaped ;  parboil  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  place 
in  baking-pan  and  bake  until  soft,  basting  three  times  with 
melted  butter. 

Anna  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  medium-sized  potatoes.  Cut  lengthwise 
in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  and  fasten  in  fan  shapes,  with 
small  wooden  skewers,  allowing  five  slices  of  potato  to  each 
skewer.  Parboil  ten  minutes,  drain,  then  place  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  soft,  basting  every  three 
minutes  with  butter  or  some  other  fat. 

Persillade  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes,  and  cut  in  shapes  of  large 
olives.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain,  and 
let  stand  to  dry  oif.  Turn  into  hot  serving  dish,  pour  over 
clarified  butter,  sprinkle  generously  with  paprika,  and  send 
to  table  at  once. 

Potato  Balls 

Select  large  potatoes,  wash,  pare,  and  soak.  Shape  in 
balls  with  a  French  vegetable  cutter.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  soft ;  drain,  and  to  one  pint  potatoes  add 
one  cup  Thin  White  Sauce.  Turn  into  hot  dish,  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Hongroise  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potatoes  in  one-third  inch  cubes, 
—  there  should  be  three  cups ;  parboil  three  minutes,  and 
drain.  Add  one-third  cup  butter,  and  cook  on  back  of 
range  until  potatoes  are  soft  and  slightly  browned.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  hot  milk. 
Season  with  salt  and  paprika,  then  add  one  egg  yolk. 
Pour  sauce  over  potatoes,  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley. 


314  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 


FRIED  POTATOES 

ShadoTv  Potatoes  (Saratoga  Chips) 
"Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Slice  thinly  (using  vegetable 
slicer)  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Let  stand  two  hours, 
changing  water  twice.  Drain,  plunge  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  and  boil  one  minute.  Drain  again,  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  Take  from  water  and  dry  between  towels. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  until  light  brown,  keeping  in  motion  with  a 
skimmer.     Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Shredded  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potatoes  in  one-eighth  inch  slices. 
Cut  slices  in  one-eighth  inch  strips.  Soak  one  hour  in  cold 
water.  Take  from  water,  dry  between  towels,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Serve  around  fried  or  baked  fish. 

Lattice  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Slice,  using  a  vegetable  slicer 
which  comes  for  this  purpose,  and  let  stand  in  a  bowl  of 
cold  water  two  hours.  Drain,  and  dry  between  towels.  Fry 
io  deep  fat,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Potato  Nests 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potatoes  in  thin  strips,  using  same 
slicer  as  for  Lattice  Potatoes.  Soak  in  cold  water  fifteen 
minutes,  drain,  and  dry  between  towels.  Line  a  fine  wire 
strainer  of  four-inch  diameter,  and  having  a  wire  handle, 
with  potatoes,  place  a  similar  strainer,  having  a  two  and 
one-half  inch  diameter,  in  larger  strainer,  thus  holding 
potatoes  in  nest  shapes.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  taking  care  that 
the  fat  does  not  reach  too  high  a  temperature  at  first. 
Keep  the  small  strainer  in  place  during  frying  with  a  long 
bandied  spoon.  Carefully  remove  nests  from  strainers. 
Drain  on  brown  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Fill  with 
small  fillets  of  fried  fish  or  fried  smelts. 


PRIED  POTATOES  315 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

"Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes,  cut  in  eighths  lengthwise, 
and  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water.  Take  from  water,  dry 
between  towels,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Care  must  be  taken  that  fat  is  not  too  hot,  as  potatoes 
must  be  cooked  as  well  as  browned. 

O'Brion  Potatoes 

Fry  three  cups  potato  cubes  or  balls  in  deep  fat,  drain  on 
brown  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Cook  one  slice  onion 
in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  three  minutes,  re- 
move onion,  and  add  to  butter  three  canned  pimentoes  cut 
in  small  pieces.  When  thoroughly  heated  add  potatoes; 
stir  until  well  mixed,  turn  into  serving  dish,  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Potato  Marbles 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Shape  in  balls,  using  a  French 
vegetable  cutter.  Soak  fifteen  minutes  in  cold  water ;  take 
from  water  and  dry  between  towels.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Fried  Potato  Balls 

To  one  cup  hot  riced  potatoes  add  one  tablespoon  butter, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  celery  salt, 
and  few  grains  cayenne.  Cool  slightly,  and  add  one-half 
beaten  egg  and  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Shape  in  small  balls,  roll  in  flour,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Potatoes,  Somerset  Style 

To  two  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  add  two  tablespoons 
butter,  one-half  cup  grated  mild  cheese,  yolks  three  eggs, 
slightly  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains 
cayenne.  Shape  in  form  of  birds,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and 
crumbs,  insert  slices  of  raw  potato  cut  to  represent  wings 
and  tail,  and  cloves  to  represent  eyes.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and 
drain  on  brown  paper. 


316  BOSTON  COOIONG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK   * 

Potato  Fritters 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  cream  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  wine  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  Yolks  2  eggs 

%  cup  flour 

Add  cream,  wine,  and  seasonings  to  potatoes ;  then  add 
eggs  well  beaten,  having  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  of 
ice-water,  and  beat  until  cold.  Add  flour,  and  when  well 
mixed,  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  deep  fat,  fry  until  delicately 
browned,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Potato  Curls 
Wash  and  pare  large  long  potatoes.     Shape  with  a  potato 
curler,  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water,   drain,   dry  between 
towels,  fry  in  deep  fat,  drain,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Potato  Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

%  teaspoon  salt  Yolk  1  egg 

y^  teaspoon  pepper  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
)/^  teaspoon  celery  salt  parsley 

Mix  Ingredients  in  order  given,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  one  min- 
ute in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Croquettes  are 
shaped  in  a  variety  of  forms.  The  most  common  way  is  to 
first  form  a  smooth  ball  by  rolling  one  rounding  tablespoon 
of  mixture  between  hands.  Then  roll  on  a  board  until  of 
desired  length,  and  flatten  ends. 

French  Potato  Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  Yolks  3  eggs 

•2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Mix  ingredients  -in  order  given,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Shape  in  balls,  then  in  rolls,  pointed  at  ends.  Roll  in  flour, 
mark  in  three  places  on  top  of  each  with  knife-blade  to 
represent  a  small  French  loaf.    Fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain 

on  browE  paper. 


Potato  CuoauKTTES  ready  for  frying.  —  Page  316. 


Potato  Nests  {Page  314).  Potatoes,  Somerset  Style  {Page  S15). 


Cucumber  Salad„  —  Page  3£8, 


^^W^Al 


/ 


Cucumber  Baskets.  —  Page  S28. 


SWEET  POTATOES  317 

Potato  Apples 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  butter  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

y^  cup  grated  cheese  2  tablespoons  thick  cream 

%  teaspoon  salt  Yolks  2  eggs 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Shape  in  form  of  small  apples,  roll  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Insert  a  clove 
at  both  stem  and  blossom  end  of  each  apple. 

Potatoes  en  Surprise 

Make  Potato  Croquette  mixture,  omitting  parsley.  Shape 
in  small  nests  and  fill  with  Creamed  Chicken,  shrimp,  or 
peas.  Cover  nests  with  Croquette  mixture,  then  roll  in  form 
of  croquettes.  Dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again;  try 
in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

SWEET  POTATOES 

ft 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 
Prepare  and  bake  same  as  white  potatoes. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 

Bake  six  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  remove  from  oven, 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  scoop  out  inside.  Mash,  add 
two  tablespoons  butter,  and  cream  to  moisten.  Season  with 
salt  and  Sherry  wine.  Refill  skins  and  bake  five  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Wash,  pare,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Many  boil 
sweet  potatoes  with  the  skins  on. 

Mashed  Sw^eet  Potatoes 

To  two  cups  riced  sweet  potatoes  add  three  tablespoons 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  hot  milk  to  moisten. 
Beat  until  light,  and  pile  on  a  vegetable  dish. 


818  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Georgian  Style 
Season  mashed  boiled  sweet  potatoes  with  butter,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  Sherry  wine.  Moisten  with  cream,  and  beat  five 
minutes.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  leaving  a  rough  sur- 
face. Pour  over  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  two  tablespoons 
molasses  and  one  teaspoon  butter  five  minutes.  Bake  in  the 
oven  until  delicately  browned. 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  six  medium-sized  potatoes.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain,  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise, and  put  in  a  buttered  pan.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling 
three  minutes  one-half  cup  sugar  and  four  tablespoons  water  ; 
add  one  tablespoon  butter.  Brush  potatoes  with  syrup  and 
bake  until  brown,  basting  twice  with  remaining  syrup. 
Sweet  Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Cut  five  medium-sized  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  one- 
third  inch  slices.  Put  a  layer  in  buttered  baking-dish,  sprin- 
kle with  salt,  pepper,  and  three  tablespoons  brown  sugar, 
dot  over  with  one  tablespoon  butter.  Repeat,  cover  with 
buttered  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Sweet  Potatoes  en  Brochettte 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes,  and  cut  in  one-third  inch  slices. 
Arrange  on  skewers  in  groups  of  three  or  four,  parboil  six 
minutes,  and  drain.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
■with  brown  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  well  browned. 

Sweet  Potato  Balls 
To  two  cups  hot  riced  sweet  potatoes  add  three  tablespoons 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper,  and  one 
beaten  egg.  Shape  in  small  balls,  roll  in  flour,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  and  drain.  If  potatoes  are  very  dry,  it  will  be  necessary 
to  add  hot  milk  to  moisten. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 
Prepare  mixture  for  Sweet  Potato  Balls.     Shape  in  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  and  drain. 


WAEMED-OVEB   POTATOES  319 

WARMED-OVER  POTATOES 

Potato  Cakes 
Shape  cold  mashed  potato  in  small  cakes,  and  roll  in  flour. 
Butter  hot  omelet  pan,  put  in  cakes,  brown  one  side,  turn  and 
brown  other  side,  adding  butter  as  needed  to  prevent  burn- 
ing; or  pack  potato  in  small  buttered  pan  as  soon  as  it 
comes  from  table,  and  set  aside  until  ready  for  use.  Turn 
from  pan,  cut  in  pieces,  roll  in  flour,  and  cook  same  as  Potato 
Cakes. 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Reheat  two  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  dice,  in  one 
and  one-half  cups  White  Sauce  I. 

Potatoes  au  "Gratin 

Put  Creamed  Potatoes  in  buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  on  centre  grate  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Delmonico'  Potatoes 

To  Potatoes  au  Gratin  add  one-third  cup  grated  mild 
cheese,  arranging  potatoes  and  cheese  in  alternate  layers 
before  covering  with  crumbs. 

Potatoes  k  TAntlers 

Cook  potatoes  with  jackets  on,  drain,  and  let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours.  Peel,  and  cut  in  small  cubes.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  tablespoons  butter  to  each  two  cups  potatoes. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  generously  with  paprika.  Add  one 
cup  cream,  and  cook  slowly  forty  minutes. 

Hashed  Bro"wn  Potatoes 

Try  out  fat  salt  pork  cut  in  small  cubes,  remove  scraps ; 
there  should  be  about  one-third  cup  of  fat.  Add  two  cups 
cold  boiled  potatoes  finely  chopped,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  salt  if  needed.  Mix  potatoes  thoroughly  with 
fat;  cook  three  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  let  stand  to 
brown  underneath.  Fold  as  au  omelet  and  turn  on  hot 
platter. 


820  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Sauted  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  a  hot,  well-greased  frying-pan, 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  other  side. 

Chartreuse  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  put  together 
in  pairs,  dip  in  Batter  I,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  I 

Cook  five  minutes  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one  small 
onion  cut  in  thin  slices ;  add  three  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut 
in  one-fourth  inch  slices  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper; 
stir  until  well  mixed  with  onion  and  butter ;  let  stand  until 
potato  is  brown  underneath,  fold,  and  turn  on  a  hot  platter. 
This  dish  is  much  improved  and  potatoes  brown  better  by 
addition  of  two  tablespoons  Brown  Stock.  Sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  parsley  if  desired. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  II 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  to  make  two  cups.  Cook  five 
minutes  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  with  one  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  potatoes,  and  cook  until 
potatoes  have  absorbed  butter,  occasionally  shaking  pan. 
Add  butter  and  onion,  and  when  well  mixed,  add  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

French  Chef 

Oak  Hill  Potatoes 

Cut  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  six ' '  hard-boiled  "  eggs  in 
one-fourth  inch  slices.  Put  layer  of  potatoes  in  buttered 
baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  layer 
of  eggs ;  repeat,  and  pour  over  two  cups  Thin  White  Sauce. 
Cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  the 
crumbs  are  bro^^n. 


WARMED-OVER  POTATOES  321 


Curried  Potatoes 


Cook  one-fourth  cup  butter  with  one  small  onion,  finely 
chopped,  until  yellow;  add  three  cups  cold  boiled  potato 
cubes,  and  cook  until  potatoes  have  absorbed  butter,  then 
add  from  one-half  to  three-fourths  cup  White  Stock,  one  half 
tablespoon  each  curry  powder  and  lemon  juice,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.    Cook  until  potatoes  have  absorbed  stock. 


322        BOSTo:^f  cooking-school  cook  book 


CHAPTEE  XXI 
SALADS  AND   SALAD  DRESSINGS 

SALADS,  which  constitute  a  course  in  almost  every  dinner, 
but  a  few  years  since  seldom  appeared  on  the  table.  They 
are  now  made  in  an  endless  variety  of  ways,  and  are  com- 
posed of  meat,  fish,  vegetables  (alone  or  in  combination)  or 
fruits,  with  the  addition  of  a  dressing.  The  salad  plants, 
lettuce,  watercress,  chiccory,  cucumbers,  etc.,  contain  but 
little  nutriment,  but  are  cooling,  refreshing,  and  assist  in 
stimulating  the  appetite.  They  are  valuable  for  the  water 
and  potash  salts  they  contain.  The  olive  oil,  which  usually 
forms  the  largest  part  of  the  dressing,  furnishes  nutriment, 
and  is  of  much  value  to  the  system. 

Salads  made  of  greens  should  always  be  served  crisp  and 
cold.  The  vegetables  should  be  thoroughly  washed,  allowed 
to  stand  in  cold  or  ice-water  until  crisp,  then  drained  and 
spread  on  a  towel  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  until  serving 
time.  See  Lettuce,  page  294.  Dressing  may  be  added  at 
table  or  just  before  sending  to  table.  If  greens  are  allowed 
to  stand  in  dressing  they  will  soon  wilt.  It  should  be  re- 
membered that  winter  greens  are  raised  under  glass  and 
should  be  treated  as  any  other  hothouse  plant.  Lettuce  will 
be  affected  by  a  change  of  temperature  and  wilt  just  as 
quickly  as  delicate  flowers. 

Canned  or  cold  cooked  left-over  vegetables  are  well  utilized 
in  salads,  but  are  best  mixed  with  French  Dressing  and 
allowed  to  stand  in  a  cold  place  one  hour  before  serving. 
Where  several  vegetables  are  used  in  the  same  salad  they 
should  be  marinated  separately,  and  arranged  for  serving 
just  before  sending  to  table. 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  323 

Meat  for  salads  should  be  freed  from  skin  and  gristle,  cut 
in  small  cubes,  and  allowed  to  stand  mixed  with  French 
Dressing  before  combining  with  vegetables.  Fish  should  be 
flaked  or  cut  in  cubes. 

Where  salads  are  dressed  at  table,  first  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  oil,  and  lastly  vinegar.  If  vinegar  is  added 
before  oil,  the  greens  will  become  wet,  and  oil  will  LOt  cling, 
but  settle  to  bottom  of  bowl. 

A  Chapon.  Remove  a  small  piece  from  end  of  French 
loaf  and  rub  over  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  first  dipped  in  salt. 
Place  in  bottom  of  salad  bowl  before  arranging  salad.  A 
chapon  is  often  used  in  vegetable  salads,  and  gives  an 
agreeable  additional  flavor. 

To  Marinate.  The  word  marinate,  as  used  in  cookery, 
means  to  add  salt,  pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar  to  a  salad 
ingredient  or  mixture,  then  allow  to  let  stand  until  well 
seasoned. 


SALAD   DRESSINGS 

French  Dressing 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

^  teaspoon  pepper  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Put  ingredients  in  small  cream  jar  and  shake.  Some 
prefer  the  addition  of  a  few  drops  onion  juice.  French 
Dressing  is  more  easily  prepared  and  largely  used  than  any 
other  dressing.  One  tablespoon,  each,  lemon  juice  and 
vinegar  may  be  used. 

Parisian  French  Dressing 

»^  cup  olive  oil.  2  tablespoons  finely 
5  tablespoons  vinoigar  chopped  parsley 

%  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  4  red  peppers 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  8  green  peppers 

Bermuda  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Let  stand  one  honr, 
then  stir  vigorously  for  five  minutes.  This  is  especially  fine 
with  lettuce,  romaine,  chiccory,  or  endive.  The  red  and 
green  peppers  are  the  small  ones  found  in  pepper  sauce. 


324  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Clnb  French  Dressing 

y^  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  Tarragon 

^  teaspoon  pepper  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  brandy  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Mix  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended. 

Curry  Dressing 

^  teaspoon  salt  34  teaspoon  pepper 

y^  teaspoon  curry  powder  6  tablespoons  olive  oil 

3  tablespoons  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  stir  until  well 
blended. 

Cream  Dressing  I 

1^  tablespoon  salt  1  egg  slightly  beaten 

3^  tablespoon  mustard  2)^  tablespoons  melted  butter         * 

^  tablespoon  sugar  ^  cup  cream 

)^  cup  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  adding  vinegar  very  slowly. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture 
thickens,  strain  and  cool. 

Cream  Dressing  II 

1  teaspoon  mustard  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  butter 

2  teaspoons  flour  Yolk  1  Qgg 
\y^  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  ^  cup  vinegar 

y^  cup  thick  cream,  sweet  or  sour 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  butter,  ^^'g^  and  vinegar  slowly. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture 
thickens ;  cool,  and  add  to  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 

Boiled  Dressing  I 

3=^  tablespoon  salt  1 3^  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  mustard  Yolks  2  eggs 

1^  tablespoons  sugar  \%  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Few  grains  cayenne  %  cup  milk 

^  cup  vinegar 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
butter,  milk,  and  vinegar  very  slowly.  Cook  over  boiling 
water  until  mixture  thickens  j  strain  and  cooL 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  325 

Boiled  Dressing  II 
Tolks  4  eggs  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  cup  olive  oil  i  j^  teaspoons  salt 

4  tablespoons  vinegar  8  teaspoons  powdered  sugar 

1  pint  whipped  cream 

Beat  jolks  of  eggs  slightly,  add  gradually  one-half  of  tltO 
oil  and  lemon  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture 
thickens ;  chill,  and  add  gradually  remaining  oil,  salt,  and 
sugar.    Just  before  serving  add  cream. 

German  Dressing 

%  cup  thick  cream  >^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  Few  grains  pepper 
Beat  cream  until  stiff,  usin^jr  Dover  Egg-beater.     Add  salt, 

pepper,  and  vinegar  very  slowly,  continuing  the  beating. 

Chicken  Salad  Dressing 
y^  cup  rich  chicken  stock  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  vinegar  )^  teaspoon  pepper 

Yolks  5  eggs  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  mixed  mustard  )^  cup  thick  cream 

3^  cup  melted  butter 

Keduce  stock  in  which  a  fowl  has  been  cooked  to  one-half 
cupful.  Add  vinegar,  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  mus- 
tard, salt,  pepper,  and  caj'enne.  Cook  over  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Strain,  add 
cream  and  melted  butter,  then  cool. 

Oil  Dressing  I 

4  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  %  teaspoon  mustard 
4  tablespoons  oil  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  vinegar  Few  grains  cayenne 

%  tablespoon  sugar  White  1  egg 

Force  yolks  of  "hard-boiled"  eggs  through  a  strainer, 
then  work,  using  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  until  smooth. 
Add  sugar,  mu&tard,  salt,  and  cayenne,  and  when  well  blended 
add  gradually  oil  and  vinegar,  stirring  and  beating  until 
thoroughly  mixed  j  then  cut  and  fold  in  whitQ  of  ^^^  beaten 
until  stUS. 


826  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Oil  Dressing  II 

1}4  teaspoons  mustard  2  tablespoons  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt  K  ^^P  vinegar  diluted  with 

2  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  cold  water  to  make  one- 
Few  grains  cayenne  half  cup 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  oil  gradually,  stirring 
constantly  until  thoroughly  mixed  ;  then  add  diluted  vin- 
egar. Cook  over  boiling  water  until  mixture  thickens ;  strain 
and  cool. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  I 

1  teaspoon  mustard  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Few  grains  cayenne  1}^  cups  olive  oil 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks,  and  when  well  mixed 
add  one-half  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Add  oil  gradually,  at 
first  drop  by  drop,  and  stir  constantly.  As  mixture  thickens, 
thin  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Add  oil,  and  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice  alternately,  until  all  is  used,  stirring  or  beating 
constantly.  If  oil  is  added  too  rapidly^  dressing  will  have  a 
curdled  appearance.  A  smooth  consistency  may  be  restored 
by  taking  yolk  of  another  egg  and  adding  curdled  mixture 
slowly  to  it.  It  is  desirable  to  have  bowl  containing  mix- 
ture placed  in  a  larger  bowl  of  crushed  ice,  to  which  a  small 
quantity  of  water  has  been  added.  Olive  oil  for  making 
Mayonnaise  should  always  be  thoroughly  chilled.  A  silver 
fork,  wire  whisk,  small  wooden  spoon,  or  egg-beater  may 
be  used  as  preferred.  Mayonnaise  should  be  stiff  enough 
to  hold  its  shape.  It  soon  liquefies  when  added  to  meat  or 
vegetables ;  therefore  it  should  be  added  just  before  serving 
time. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  II 

Use  same  ingredients  as  for  Mayonnaise  Dressing  I,  add- 
ing mashed  yolk  of  a  "  hard-boiled  "  egg  to  dry  ingredients. 

French  Chef 


SALABS  827 

Cream  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

To  Mayonnaise  Dressing  I  or  II  add  one-third  cup  thick 
cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  This  recipe  should  be  used  only 
when  dressing  is  to  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  made. 

Green  Mayonnaise 

Color  Mayonnaise  Dressing  1  with  juices  expressed  from 
parsley  and  watercress,  using  one-half  as  much  parsley  as 
watercress.  To  obtain  coloring,  break  greens  in  pieces, 
pound  in  a  mortar  until  thoroughly  macerated,  then  squeeze 
through  cheese-cloth.  Lobster  coral,  rubbed  through  a  fine 
sieve,  added  to  Mayonnaise,  makes  Red  Mayonnaise, 

Potato  Mayonnaise 

Very  small  baked  potato  1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  mustard  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  olive  oil 

Remove  and  mash  the  inside  of  potato.  Add  mustard, 
salt,  and  powdered  sugar ;  add  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  and 
rub  mixture  through  a  fine  sieve.  Add  slowly  oil  and  re- 
maining vinegar.  By  the  taste  one  would  hardly  realize 
eggs  were  not  used  in  the  making. 

SALADS 

Dressed  Lettuce 

Prepare  lettuce  as  directed  on  page  294.  Serve  with 
French  Dressing, 

Lettuce  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Place  a  chapon  in  bottom  of  salad  bowl.  Wash,  drain, 
and  dry  one  head  lettuce,  arrange  in  bowl,  and  place  be- 
tween leaves  one  cucumber  cut  in  thin  slices.  Serve  with 
French  Dressing. 

Lettuce  and  Radish  Salad 
Prepare  and  arrange  as  for  Dressed  Lettuce.     Place  be- 
tween leaves  six  radishes  which  have  been  washed,  scraped, 
and  cut  in  thin  Blices.    Garnish  with  round  radishes  cut 


828     BOSTON  COOKING- SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

to  represent  tulips.     See  page  299.      Serve   with  French 
Dressing. 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad 

Peel  and  chill  three  tomatoes.  Cut  in  halves  crosswise, 
arrange  each  half  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Garnish  with  Mayon- 
naise Dressing  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  If 
tomatoes  are  small,  cut  in  quarters,  and  allow  one  tomato  to 
each  lettuce  leaf. 

Dressed  Watercress 

Wash,  remove  roots,  drain,  and  chill  watercress.  Arrange 
in  salad  dish,  and  serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Cucumber  Salad 
Remove  thick  slices  from  both  ei;ids  of  a  cucumber,  cut  off 
a  thick  paring,  and  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife  cut  five  par- 
allel grooves  lengthwise  of  cucumber  at  equal  distances ; 
then  cut  in  thin  parallel  slices  crosswise,  keeping  cucumber  in 
its  original  shape.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  over 
Parisian  French  Dressing.     Serve  with  fish  course. 

Watercress  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Prepare  watercress  and  add  one  cucumber,  pared,  chilled, 
and  cut  in  one-half  inch  dice.     Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad 
Arrange  sliced  tomatoes  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.     Pile 
on   each  slice,   cucumber  cubes  cut   one-half   inch   square. 
Serve  with  French  or  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Cucumber  Cups  with  Lettuce 
Pare  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters  crosswise,  remove  centres 
from  pieces,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  fill  cups  with 
Sauce  Tartare  (see  p.  277). 

•   Cucumber  Baskets 

Select  three  long,  regular- shaped  cucumbers ;  cut  a  piece 

from  both  the  stem  and  blossom  end  of  each ;  then  cut  in 

halves  crosswise.     Cut  two  pieces  from  each  section,  leaving 

remaining  piece  in  shape  of  basket  with  handle.     Remove 


SALADS  329 

pulp  and  seeds,  in  sufficiently  large  pieces  to  cut  in  cubes  for 
refilling  one-half  the  baskets,  the  remaining  half  being  filled 
with  pieces  of  tomatoes.  Arrange  baskets  on  lettuce  leaves, 
alternating  the  fillings,  and  pour  over  French  Dressing. 

Dressed  Celery 
Wash,  scrape,  and  cut  stalks  of  celery  in  thin  slices.     Mix 
with  Cream  Dressing  I. 

Celery  and  Cabbage  Salad 

Remove  outside  leaves  from  a  small  solid  white  cabbage, 
and  cut  off  stalk  close  to  leaves.  Cut  out  centre,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  shred  finely.  Let  stand  one  hour  in  cold  or  ice 
water.  Drain,  wring  in  double  cheese-cloth,  to  make  as  dry 
as  possible.  Mix  with  equal  parts  celery  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Moisten  with  Cream  Dressing  and  refill  cabbage.  Arrange 
on  a  folded  napkin  and  garnish  with  celery  tips  and  parsley 
between  folds  of  napkin  and  around  top  of  cabbage. 

Asparagus  Salad 

Drain  and  rinse  stalks  of  canned  asparagus.  Cut  rings 
from  a  bright  red  pepper  one-third  inch  wide.  Place  three 
or  four  stalks  in  each  ring.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve  with  French  Dressing,  to  which  has  been  added  one- 
half  tablespoon  tomato  catsup. 

Corn  Salad 

Drain  one  can  corn  and  season  with  mustard  and  onion 
juice.  Marinate  with  French  Dressing,  let  stand  one  hour, 
then  drain.     Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  or  chiccory. 

String  Bean  Salad 
Marinate  two  cups  cold  string  beans  with  French  Dressing. 
Add  one  teaspoon  finely  cut  chives.  Pile  in  centre  of  salad 
dish  and  arrange  around  base  thin  slices  of  radishes  over- 
lapping one  another.  Garnish  top  with  radish  cut  to  repre- 
sent a  tulip. 

Potato  Salad  I 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  one -half  inch  cubes.  Sprinkle 
four  cupfuls  with  one-half  tablespoon  salt  and  one- fourth 


330  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoon  pepper.  Add  four  tablespoons  oil  and  mix  thor- 
oughly ;  then  add  two  tablespoons  vinegar.  A  few  drops  of 
onion  juice  may  be  added,  or  one-half  tablespoon  chives 
finely  cut.  Arrange  in  a  mound  and  garnish  with  whites  and 
yolks  of  two  ''hard-boiled'*  eggs,  cold  boiled  red  beets, 
and  parsley.  Chop  whites  and  arrange  on  one- fourth  of  the 
mound;  chop  beets  finely,  mix  with  one  tablespoon  vinegar, 
and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes;  then  arrange  on  fourths  of 
mounds  next  to  whites.  Arrange  on  remaining  fourth  of 
mound  yolks  chopped  or  forced  through  a  potato  ricer. 
Put  small  sprigs  of  parsley  in  lines  dividing  beets  from  eggs; 
also  garnish  with  parsley  at  base. 

Potato  Salad  II 
Mix  two  cups  cold  boiled  riced  potatoes  and  one  cup  pecan 
nut  meats  broken  in  pieces.    Marinate  with  French  Dressing, 
and  arrange  on  a  bed  of  watercress. 

Hot  Potato  Salad 

Wash  six  medium- sized  potatoes,  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  soft.  Cool,  remove  skins,  and  cut  in  very 
thin  slices.  Cover  bottom  of  baking-dish  with  potatoes,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  celery, 
then  with  finely  chopped  parsley.  Mix  two  tablespoons  each 
tarragon  and  cider  vinegar  and  four  tablespoons  olive  oil, 
and  add  one  slice  lemon  cut  one-third  inch  thick.  Bring  to 
boiling-point,  pour  over  potatoes,  cover,  and  let  stand  in 
oven  until  thoroughly  warmed. 

Potato  and  Celery  Salad 

To  two  cups  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes  add 
one-half  cup  finely  cut  celery  and  a  medium-sized  apple, 
pared,  cut  in  eighths,  then  eighths  cut  in  thin  slices.  Mar- 
inate with  French  Dressing.  Arrange  in  a  mound  and  gar- 
nish with  celery  tip  and  sections  of  bright  red  apple. 

Bolivia  Salad 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  one-half  inch  cubes;  there 
should  be  one  and  one-half  cups.  Add  three  "  hard-boiled  " 
eggs  finely  chopped,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  finely 


Asparagus  Salad,  Individual  Service.  —  Page 


Berkshire  Salad  in  Boxes.  —  Page  $45, 


Ego  Salad.  —  Page 


Peak  Salad.  —  Pngf  34O. 


SALADS  331 

chopped  red  peppers,  and  one-halt  tablespoon  chopped  chives. 
Pour  over  Cream  Dressing  I  (see  p.  324)  and  serve  in  nests 
of  lettuce  leaves. 

Lettuce  Salad 

Wash  one  head  romaine  and  cut  in  pieces,  using  scissors. 
Mrx  two  cups  cold  riced  potatoes,  one-half  pound  white 
mushroom  caps  peeled  and  cut  in  eighths,  and  one  pound 
Brazil  nut  meats  (from  which  skins  have  been  removed)  cut 
in  pieces.  Moisten  with  French  Dressing,  made  by  allowing 
one-third  tarragon  vinegar  to  two-thirds  olive  oil.  Arrange 
on  salad  dish,  surround  with  romaine,  and  garnish  with  three 
peeled  mushroom  caps  and  six  Brazil  nut  meats. 

Mac6doine  Salad 

Marinate  separately  cold  cooked  cauliflower,  peas,  and  car- 
rots cut  in  small  cubes,  and  outer  stalks  of  celery  finely  cut. 
Arrange  peas  and  carrots  in  alternate  piles  in  centre  of  a 
salad  dish.  Pile  cauliflower  on  top.  Arrange  celery  in  four 
piles  at  equal  distances.  At  top  of  each  pile  place  a  small 
gherkin  cut  lengthwise  in  very  thin  slices,  beginning  at 
blossom  end  and  cutting  nearly  to  stem  end.  Open  slices 
to  represent  a  fan.  Place  between  piles  of  celery  a  slice  of 
tomato. 

Almost  any  cold  cooked  vegetables  on  hand  may  be  used 
for  a  Macedoine  Salad,  and  if  care  is  taken  in  arrangement^ 
they  make  a  very  attractive  dish. 

Russian  Salad 

Mix  one  cup  each  cold  cooked  carrot  cubes  and  potato 
cubes,  one  cup  cold  cooked  peas,  and  one  cup  cold  cooked 
beans,  and  marinate  with  French  Dressing.  Arrange  on 
lettuce  leaves  in  four  sections,  and  cover  each  section 
with  Mayonnaise  Dressing.  Garnish  tw^o  sections  with 
small  pieces  of  smoked  salmon,  one  section  with  finely 
chopped  whites  of  ^ '  hard  boiled "  eggs,  and  one  section 
with  yolks  of  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  forced  through  a  strainer. 
Put  small  sprigs  of  parsley  or  shrimps  in  lines  dividing 
sections. 


332  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Pineapple 

Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes.  Remove  thin  slice  from  top 
of  each,  and  take  out  seeds  and  some  of  pulp.  Sprinkle 
inside  with  salt,  invert,  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Fill 
tomatoes  with  fresh  pineapple  cut  in  small  cubes  or  shredded, 
and  nut  meats,  using  two-thirds  pineapple  and  one-third  ftut 
meats.  Mix  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  garnish  with  May- 
onnaise, halves  of  nut  meats,  and  slices  cut  from  tops  cut 
square.     Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  I 

Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes.  Remove  thin  slice  from  top 
of  each  and  take  out  seeds  and  some  of  pulp.  Sprinkle 
inside  with  salt,  invert,  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Fill 
tomatoes  with  cucumbers  cut  in  small  cubes  and  mixed  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  gar- 
nish top  of  each  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing  forced  through  a 
pastry- bag  and  tube. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  II 

Prepare  tomatoes  same  as  for  Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Pine- 
apple. Refill  with  finely  cut  celery  and  apple,  using  equal 
parts.  Serve  with  Mayonnaise,  and  garnish  with  shredded 
lettuce. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  (German  Style) 

Prepare  tomatoes  same  as  Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Pineap- 
ple. Shred  finely  one-half  a  cabbage.  Let  stand  two  hours 
in  salted  water,  allowing  two  tablespoons  salt  to  one  quart 
water.  Cook  slowly  thirty  minutes  one-half  cup  each  cold 
water  and  vinegar,  with  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  one-half  teaspoon 
peppercorns,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mustard  seed,  and  six 
cloves.  Strain,  and  pour  over  cabbage  drained  from  salt 
water.    Let  stand  two  hours,  again  drain,  and  refill  tomatoes. 

Tomato  and  Horseradish  Salad 

Peel  and  chill  tomatoes,  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  arrange 
on  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  Horseradish  Sauce  L 


SALADS  333 

Hindoo   Salad 

Arrange  four  slices  tomato  on  a  bed  of  shredded  lettuce. 
On  two  of  the  slices  pile  shaved  celery,  on  the  opposite 
slices,  finely  cut  watercress.  Garnish  with  small  pieces  of 
tomato  shaped  with  circular  cutter,  and  serve  with  French 
Dressing. 

Tomato  Ciboulettea 

Kemove  skins  from  four  small  tomatoes,  and  cut  in  halves 
crosswise.  Cover  with  Mayonnaise,  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  chives.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Tomato  and  "Watercresa  Salad 

Peel  and  chill  large  tomatoes,  cut  in  slices  one-third  inch 
thick,  and  slices  in  strips  one-third  inch  wide.  Arrange  on  a 
fl^t  dish  to  represent  lattice  work,  and  fill  in  the  spaces  with 
watercress.     Serve  with  French  Dressing, 

Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Arrange  alternate  slices  of  tomato  and  cucumber  until  six 
slices  have  been  piled  oiTe  on  top  of  another.  Place  on  let- 
tuce leaves,  garnish  with  strips  of  red  and  green  peppers. 
Serve  with  French  and  Mayonnaise  Dressing.  Remove  seeds 
from  peppers  and  parboil  two  minutes  before  using. 

Salad  Chiffonade 
Cook  two  green  peppers  in  boiling  water  to  which  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  soda  has  been  added,  one  minute ;  cool,  and 
shred.  Shred  one  head  of  romaine,  remove  pulp  from  one  large 
grape  fruit,  and  cut  three  small  ripe  tomatoes  in  quarters 
lengthwise.  Arrange  in  salad  dish  and  serve  with  French 
Dressing. 

"Wiersbick's  Salad 

Peel  small  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  and  scoop  out  a  por- 
tion of  centres.  Arrange  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves  and  gar- 
nish top  of  each  with  a  slice  of  cucumber,  slice  of  truffle  cut 
in  fancy  shape,  and  ring  of  green  pepper.  Serve  with  the 
following  dressing : 

Mix  three  tablespoons  Louit  Fr^res  mustard,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  one  tablespoon 


334  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

vinegar,  and  one-half  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce ;  then 
add  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly,  one-half  cup  olive  oil. 

Tomato  and  Cheese  Salad 

Peel  six  medium-sized  tomatoes,  chill,  and  scoop  out  a 
small  quantity  of  pulp  from  the  centre  of  each.  Fill  cavi- 
ties, using  equal  parts  of  Roquefort  and  Neufchatel  cheese 
worked  together  and  moistened  with  French  Dressing.  Ar- 
range on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

To  one  can  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes  add  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  salt  and  powdered  sugar,  and  two-thirds  box 
gelatine  which  has  soaked  fifteen  minutes  in  one-half  cup 
cold  water.  Pour  into  small  cups,  and  chill.  Run  a  knife 
around  inside  of  moulds,  so  that  when  taken  out  shapes 
may  have  a  rough  surface,  suggesting  a  fresh  tomato.  Place 
on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  top  of  each  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Frozen  Tomato  Salad 

Open  one  quart  can  tomatoes,  turn  from  can,  and  let  stand 
one  hour  that  they  may  be  re-oxygenated.  Add  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne ;  then 
rub  through  a  sieve.  Turn  into  one-half  pound  breakfast- 
cocoa  boxes,  cover  tightly,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  equal 
parts,  and  let  stand  three  hours.  Remove  from  mould,  ar< 
range  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  Dressingo 

Salad  k  la  Russe 

Peel  six  tomatoes,  remove  thin  slices  from  top  of  each, 
and  take  out  seeds  and  pulp.  Sprinkle  inside  with  salt, 
invert,  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Place  seeds  and  pulp 
removed  from  tomatoes  in  a  strainer  to  drain.  Mix  one- 
third  cup  cucumbers  cut  in  dice,  one-third  cup  cold  cooked 
peas,  one-fourth  cup  pickles  finely  chopped,  one-third  cup 
tomato  pulp,  and  two  tablespoons  capers.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  vinegar.  Put  in  a  cheese-cloth  and  squeeze; 
then  add  one-half  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  very  smaO 


SALADS  335 

dice.    Mix  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  refill  tomatoes,  sprinkle 
with  finel}^  chopped  parsley,  and  place  each  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

Spinach  Salad 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  cook  one-half  peck  spinach.  Drain, 
and  chop  finely.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice, 
and  add  one  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Butter  slightly  small 
tin  moulds  and  pack  solidly  with  mixture.  Chill,  remove 
from  moulds,  and  arrange  on  thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  tongue 
cut  in  circular  pieces.  Garnish  base  of  each  with  a  wreath 
of  parsley,  and  serve  on  top  of  each  Sauce  Tartare. 

Moulded  Russian  Salad 

Reduce  strong  consomme  so  that  when  cold  it  will  be  jelly- 
like in  consistency.  Set  individual  moulds  in  pan  of  ice- 
water,  pour  in  consomme  one-fourth  inch  deep ;  when  firm, 
decorate  bottom  and  sides  of  moulds  with  cold  cooked  car- 
rots, beets  and  potatoes  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Add  consomme 
to  cover  vegetables,  and  as  soon  as  firm  fill  moulds  two- 
thirds-  full  of  any  cooked  vegetable  that  may  be  at  hand. 
Add  consomme  by  spoonfuls,  allowing  it  to  become  firm  be- 
tween the  additions,  and  put  in  enough  to  cover  vegetables. 
Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  moulds,  and  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves.     Serve  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Mexican  Jelly 

Peel  four  large  cucumbers  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Put  in 
saucepan  with  one  cup  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling-point, 
and  cook  slowly  until  soft ;  then  force  through  a  puree 
strainer.  Add  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  granulated 
gelatine  dissolved  in  three-fourths  cup  boiling  water,  few 
drops  onion  juice,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  few  grains  cay- 
enne, and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Color  with  leaf  green, 
strain  through  cheese-cloth,  and  mould  same  as  Fruit  Char- 
treuse (see  p.  423).  After  removing  small  mould  fill  space 
with  Tomato  Mayonnaise.  Garnish  sides  of  mould  with  thin 
slices  of  cucumber  shaped  with  a  small  round  fluted  cutter, 
and  en  the  centre  of  each  slice  place  a  circular  piece  of  truffle. 
Garnish  around  base  of  mould  with  small  tomatoes  peeled, 
chilled^  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise.    On  each  slice  of  tomato 


886  BOSTON  COOKING-SOHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

place  a  circular  fluted  slice  of  cucumber,  and  over  all  a  cir- 
cular piece  of  truffle.     Serve  with 

Tomato  Mayonnaise.  Color  mayonnaise  red  with  tomato 
puree. 

Egg  Salad  I 

Cut  six  "hard-boiled"  eggs  in  halves  crosswise,  keeping 
whites  in  pairs.  Remove  yolks,  and  mash  or  put  through  a 
potato  ricer.  Add  slowly  enough  Oil  Dressing  II  to  moisten. 
Make  into  balls  the  size  of  original  yolks  and  refill  whites. 
Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and  pour  Oil  Dressing  No.  II 
around  eggs. 

Egg  Salad  II 

Cut  four  "hard-boiled"  eggs  in  halves  crosswise  in  such 
a  way  that  tops  of  halves  may  be  cut  in  small  points.  Re- 
move yolks,  mash,  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  chicken.  Moisten  with  Oil  Dressing  I,  shape  in  balls 
size  of  original  yolks,  and  refill  whites.  Arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves,  garnish  with  radishes  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  serve 
with  Oil  Dressing  I. 

Lenten  Salad 

Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  four  "hard-boiled"  eggs. 
Chop  whites  finely,  marinate  with  French  Dressing,  and 
arrange  on  lettuce  leaves.  Force  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer 
and  pile  on  the  centre  of  whites.    Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Crackers  and  Cheese 

Mash  a  cream  cheese,  season,  and  shape  in  balls,  then 
flatten  balls,  and  serve  on  butter-thin  crackers. 

Note.  Cream  cheese  is  very  acceptable  served  with 
zephyrettes  or  butter- thins  and  Bar  le  Due  currants. 

Cottage  Cheese  I 

Heat  one  quart. sour  milk  to  100°  F.,  and  turn  into  a 
strainer  lined  with  cheese-cloth.  Pour  over  one  quart  hot 
water,  and  as  soon  as  water  has  drained  through,  pour  over 
another  quart;  then  repeat.  Gather  cheese-cloth  around 
curd  to  form  a  bag  and  let  hang  until  curd  is  free  from 


SALADS  881 

whey.     Moisten  with  melted  butter  and  heavy  cream^x  and 
add  salt  to  taste.     Shape  into  small  balls. 

Cottage  Cheese  II 
Heat  one  quart  sweet  milk  to  100°  F.,  and  add  one  junket 
tablet  reduced  to  a  powder.  Let  stand  in  warm  place  until 
set.  Beat  with  a  fork  to  break  curd,  turn  into  a  bag  made 
of  cheese-cloth,  and  let  hang  until  whey  has  drained  from 
curd ;  then  proceed  as  with  Cottage  Cheese  I. 

Cheese  Salad 

Arrange  one  bead  lettuce  on  salad  dish,  sprinkle  with  Edam 
cheese  broken  in  small  pieces,  and  pour  over  French  Dressing. 

Neufchatel  Salad  I 

Cut  cheese  in  dice,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish 
with  radishes.     Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Neufchatel  Salad  II 

Mash  one  Neufchatel  cheese  and  moisten  with  milk  or 
cream.  Shape  into  forms  the  size  of  robins'  eggs.  Sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley,  which  has  been  dried.  Arrange 
in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  radishes.  Serve 
with  French  Dressing. 

Cheese  and  Olive  Salad 
Mash  a  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  cream,  and  season 
with  salt  and  cayenne.  Add  six  olives  finely  chopped,  let- 
tuce finely  cut,  and  one-half  a  pimento  cut  in  strips.  Press 
lU  original  shape  of  cheese  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Cut  in 
slices,  separate  in  pieces,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Cheese  and  Currant  Salad 

Mash  a  cream  cheese  and  mix  with  finely  chopped  lettuce. 
Shape  in  balls,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  pour  over  French 
Dressing,  and  over  all  Bar  le  Due  currants. 

East  India  Salad 
Work  two  ten  cent  cream  cheeses  until  smooth.     Moisten 
with  milk  and  cream,  using  equal  parts.     Add  one-half  cup 


38S  BOSTON  OOOKIKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

grated  Young  America  cheese,-  one  cup  whipped  cream,  and 
three- fourths  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in  one 
tablespoon  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  boil- 
ing water.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  turn  into 
a  border  mould.  Chill,  remove  from  mould,  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves,  fill  centre  with  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  Curry 
Dressing  (see  p.  324). 

Nut  Salad 

Mix  one  cup  chopped  English  walnut  meat  and  two  cups 
shredded  lettuce.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish 
with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Nut  and  Celery  Salad  I 

Mix  equal  parts  of  English  walnut  or  pecan  nut  meat  cut 
in  pieces,  and  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Marinate  with 
French  Dressing.     Serve  with  a  border  of  shredded  lettuce. 

Nut  and  Celery  Salad  II 

Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  finely  cut  celery,  one  cup  pecan 
nut  meats  broken  in  pieces,  and  one  cup  shredded  cabbage. 
Moisten  with  Cream  Dressing,  and  serve  in  a  salad  bowl 
made  of  a  small  white  cabbage. 

Banana  Salad 

Remove  one  section  of  skin  from  each  of  four  bananas. 
Take  out  fruit,  scrape,  and  cut  fruit  from  one  banana  in  thin 
slices,  fruit  from  other  three  bananas  in  one-half  inch  cubes. 
Marinate  cubes  with  French  Dressing.  Refill  skins  and 
garnish  each  with  slices  of  banana.  Stack  around  a  mound 
of  lettuce  leaves. 

Orange  Salad 

Cut  five  thin-skinned  sour  oranges  in  very  thin  slices,  and 
slices  in  quarters.  Marinate  with  a  dressing  made  by  mixing 
one-third  cup  olive  oil,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  each 
lemon  juice  and  vinegar,  one-third  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  paprika,  and  a  few  grains  mustard.  Serve  on  a 
b«d  of  watercresi^ 


SALADS  889 

Orange  Mint  Salad 

Remove  pulp  from  four  large  oranges,  by  cutting  fruit  in 
halves  crosswise  and  using  a  spoon.  Sprinkle  with  two 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and  add  two  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  mint,  and  one  tablespoon  each  lemon  juice  and 
Sherry  wine.  Chill  thoroughly,  serve  in  glasses,  and  garnish 
each  with  a  sprig  of  mint.  Should  the  oranges  be  very  juicy, 
pour  off  a  portion  of  the  juice  before  turning  the  mixture 
into  glasses. 

French  Fruit  Salad 

2  oranges  12  English  walnut  meats 

3  bananas  1  head  lettuce 
%  lb.  Malaga  grapes              French  Dressing 

Peel  oranges,  and  remove  pulp  separately  from  each  sec- 
tion. Peel  bananas,  and  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices.  Re- 
move skins  and  seeds  from  grapes.  Break  walnut  meats  in 
pieces.  Mix  prepared  ingredients  and  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves.     Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Hungarian  Salad 

Mix  equal  parts  shredded. fresh  pineapple,  bananas  cut  in 
pieces,  and  sections  of  tangerins,  and  marinate  with  French 
dressing.  Fill  banana  skins  with  mixture,  sprinkle  gener- 
ously with  paprika,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. 

"Waldorf  Salad 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  finely  cut  apple  and  celery,  and 
moisten  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing.  Garnish  with  curled 
celery  and  canned  pimentoes  cut  in  strips  or  fancy  shapes. 
An  attractive  way  of  serving  this  salad  is  to  remove  tops 
from  red  or  green  apples,  scoop  out  inside  pulp,  leaving  just 
enough  adhering  to  skin  to  keep  apples  in  shape.  Eefill 
shells  thus  made  with  the  salad,  replace  tops,  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

Malaga  Salad 

Remove  skins  and  seeds  from  white  grapes ;  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  English  walnut  meats,  blanched  and  broken  iu 


840  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

pieces.     Marinate  with  French  Dressing.     Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  garnish  with  Maraschino  cherries. 

Brazilian  Salad 

Remove  skin  and  seeds  from  white  grapes  and  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  shredded 
fresh  pineapple,  apples  pared,  cored,  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  celery  cut  in  small  pieces ;  then  add  one-fourth 
the  quantity  of  Brazil  nuts  broken  in  pieces.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  season  with  lemon  juice.  Moisten  with  Cream 
Mayonnaise  Dressing  (see  p.  327). 

De  John's  Salad 

Pare  six  Bartlett  pears,  care  being  taken  not  to  remove 

stems.     Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  serve  in  original  shapes  on 
lettuce  leaves.     Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Pear  Salad 

"Wipe,  pare,  and  cut  pears  in  eighths  lengthwise  ;  then  re- 
move seeds.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  pour  over  French 
dressing,  and  garnish  with  ribbons  of  red  pepper.  See 
Canned  Red  Peppers  p.  581.    v 

Game  Salad 

Drain  the  syrup  from  one  can  peaches.  Arrange  halves 
of  fruit  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  over  all  a  dressing  made 
by  mixing  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  celery  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few 
grains  cayenne,  five  drops  Tabasco,  and  adding  gradually 
four  tablespoons  olive  oil  and  two  tablespoons  fresh  lime 
juice.     Use  fresh  fruit  when  in  season. 

Pepper  and  Grape  Fruit  Salad 

Cut  slices  from  -stem  ends  of  six  green  peppers,  and 
remove  seeds.  Refill  with  grape  fruit  pulp,  finely  cut  celery, 
and  English  walnut  meats  broken  in  pieces,  allowing  twice 
as  .much  grape  fruit  as  celery,  and  two  nut  meats  to  each 
pepper.  Arrange  on  chicory  or  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing. 


SALADS  341 

Grape  Fruit  and  Celery  Salad 

Cut  medium-sized  grape  fruits  in  fourths  lengthwise.  Re- 
move the  pulp,  and  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  finely  cut 
celery.  Refill  sections  with  mixture,  mask  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing,  and  garnish  with  celery  tips  or  curled  celery  and 
canned  pimentoes  cut  in  strips. 

Monte  Carlo  Salad 

Remove  pulp  from  four  large  grape  fruits,  and  drain. 
Add  an  equal  quantity  of  finely  cut  celery,  and  apple  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Moisten  with  Mayonnaise,  pile  on  a  shallow 
salad  dish,  arrange  around  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves,  and 
mask  with  Mayonnaise.  Outline,  using  green  Mayonnaise, 
four  oblongs  to  represent  playing  cards,  and  denote  spots 
on  cards  by  canned  pimentoes  or  truffles ;  pimentoes  cut  in 
shapes  of  hearts  and  diamonds,  truffles  cut  in  shapes  of 
spades  and  clubs.  Garnish  with  cold  cooked  carrot  and 
turnip,  shaped  with  a  small  round  cutter  to  suggest  gold  and 
silver  coin. 

Salmon  Salad 

Flake  remnants  of  cold  boiletl  salmon.  Mix  with  French 
Mayonnaise,  or  Cream  Dressing.  Arrange  on  nests  of  let- 
tuce leaves.  Garnish  with  the  yolk  of  a  "  hard-boiled"  egg 
forced  through  a  potato  ricer,  and  white  of  egg  cut  in  strips. 

Shrimp  Salad 

Remove  shrimps  from  can,  cover  with  cold  or  ice  water, 
and  let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Drain,  dry  between  towels, 
remove  intestinal  veins,  and  break  in  pieces,  reserving  six 
of  the  finest.  Moisten  with  Cream  Dressing  II,  and  arrange 
on  nests  of  lettuce  leaves.  Put  a  spoonful  of  dressing  on 
each,  and  garnish  with  a  whole  shrimp,  capers,  and  an  olive 
cut  in  quarters. 

Sardine  Salad 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  sardines,  and  mix  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  the  mashed  yolks  of  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs. 
Arrange  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 


842  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Lobster  Salad  I 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell,  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes, 
and  marinate  with  a  French  Dressing.  Mix  with  a  small 
quantity  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  arrange  in  nests  of 
lettuce  leaves.  Put  a  spoonful  of  Mayonnaise  on  each,  and 
sprinkle  with  lobster  coral  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Garnish  with  small  lobster  claws  around  outside  of  dish. 
Cream  Dressing  I  or  11  may  be  used  in  place  of  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Lobster  Salad  II 

Prepare  lobster  as  for  Lobster  Salad  I.  Add  an  equal 
quantity  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  kept  one  hour  in  cold 
or  ice  water,  then  drained  and  dried  in  a  towel.  Moisten 
with  any  cream  or  oil  dressing.  Arrange  on  a  salad  dish, 
pile  slightly  in  centre,  cover  with  dressing,  sprinkle  with 
lobster  coral  forced  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  garnish  with  a 
border  of  curled  celery  and  watercress. 

To  Curl  Celery.  Cut  thick  stalks  of  celery  in  two-inch 
pieces.  With  a  sharp  knife,  beginning  at  outside  of  stalks, 
make  five  cuts  parallel  with  each  other,  extending  one-third 
the  length  of  pieces.  Make  six  cuts  at  right-angles  to  cuts 
already  made.  Put  pieces  in  cold  or  ice  water  and  let  stand 
over  night  or  for  several  hours,  when  they  will  curl  back  and 
celery  will  be  found  very  crisp.  Both  ends  of  celery  may  be 
curled  if  one  cares  to  take  the  trouble. 

Lobster  Salad  III 

Remove  large  claws  and  split  a  lobster  in  two  lengthwise 
by  beginning  the  cut  on  inside  of  tail  end  and  cutting  through 
entire  length  of  tail  and  body.  Open  lobster,  remove  tail 
meat,  liver,  and  coral,  and  set  aside.  Discard  intestinal  vein, 
stomach,  and  fat,  aud  wipe  inside  thoroughly  with  cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water.  Body  meat  and  small  claws  are  left  on 
shell.  Remove  meat  from  upper  parts  of  large  claws  and 
cut  ofiP  (using  scissors  or  can  opener)  one-half  the  shell  from 
lower  parts,  taking  out  meat  and  leaving  the  parts  in  suitable 
condition  to  refill.    Cut  lobster  meat  in  one-half  inch  cubes 


Mexicak  Jelly.  —  Page  SS5. 


LoBSTEH  Salad  III.  —  Pag€  S4t. 


Oyster  Crabs  a  la  Newburg;    Individual  Service.  —  Page  357. 


Sweetbread  Ramequins.  —  Page  S71 


SALADS  343 

and  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  finely  cut  celery.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  moisten  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing.  Refill  tail,  body,  and  under  half  of  large  claw 
shells.  Mix  liver  and  coral,  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  one 
tablespoon  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  a  few  drops  anchovy 
sauce,  with  enough  more  Mayonnaise  Dressing  to  cover 
lobster  already  in  shell.     Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Fish  Salad  with  Cucumbers 

Season  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  cooked  flaked  halibut, 
haddock,  or  cod,  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon  juice.  Cover, 
and  let  stand  one  hour.  To  Cream  Dressing  II  (see  p.  324) 
add  one-third  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  cold  water.  As  soon  as  dressing 
begins  to  thicken,  add  one-half  cup  heavy  creara  beaten  until 
stiff,  then  fold  in  the  fish.  Turn  into  individual  moulds,  chill, 
remove  from  moulds,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  garnish  each 
with  a  thin  slice  of  cucumber,  and  serve  with 

Cucumber  Sauce.  Pare  two  cucumbers,  chop,  drain  off 
most  of  liquor,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar. 

Crab  and  Tomato  Salad 

Remove  meat  from  hard-shelled  crabs;  there  should  be 
one  cup.  Add  two-thirds  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
six  small  tomatoes  peeled,  chilled,  and  cut  in  quarters. 
Moisten  with  Mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  and 
garnish  with  Mayonnaise,  curled  celery,  and  small  pieces  of 
tomato. 

Scallop  and  Tomato  Salad 

Cleari  one  pint  scallops,  parboil,  and  drain.  Add  juice  of 
one  lemon,  cover,  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Drain,  dry  be- 
tween towels,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg, 
and  stale  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  Cool,  cut  in  halves,  marinate  with  dressing,  and 
serve  garnished  with  sliced  tomatoes  and  watercress. 

Dressing.  Mix  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot,  three- 
fourths  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  two 
tablespoons  lemon  juice,  and  four  tablespoons  olive  oil. 


344  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Salmon  k  la  Martin,  Ravigote  Mayonnaise 

Drain  one  can  salmon,  rinse,  dry,  and  separate  in  flakes. 
Moisten  with  Ravigote  Mayonnaise,  arrange  on  a  bed  of 
lettuce,  mask  with  mayonnaise,  and  garnish  with  canned 
pimentoes  cut  in  triangles,  and  truffles  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Ravigdte  Mayonnaise.  Mix  two  tablespoons  cooked 
spinach,  one  tablespoon  capers,  one-half  shallot  finely  chopped, 
three  anchovies,  one-third  cup  parsley,  and  one-half  cup 
watercress.  Pound  in  mortar  until  thoroughly  macerated, 
then  force  through  a  very  fine  strainer.  Add  to  one-half 
the  recipe  for  Mayonnaise  Dressing  I  (see  p.  326). 

Oyster  and  Grape  Fruit  Salad 

Parboil  one  and  one-half  pints  oysters,  drain,  cool,  and 
remove  tough  muscles.  Cut  three  grape  fruits  in  halves 
crosswise,  remove  pulp,  and  drain.  Mix  oysters  with  pulp, 
and  season  with  six  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  four  table- 
spoons grape  fruit  juice,  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
Sauce,  eight  drops  Tabasco  sauce,  and  one-half  teaspoon 
salt.  Refill  grape  fruit  skins  with  mixture,  and  garnish  with 
curled  celery. 

Chicken  Salad  I 

Cut  cold  boiled  fowl  or  remnants  of  roast  chicken  in  one- 
half  inch  cubes,  and  marinat,e  with  French  Dressing,  Add 
an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  washed,  scraped,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  chilled  in  cold  or  ice-water,  drained,  and  dried  in 
a  towel.  Just  before  serving  moisten  with  Cream,  Oil,  or 
Mayonnaise  Dressing.  Mound  on  a  salad  dish,  and  garnish 
with  yolks  of  ''hard-boiled"  eggs  forced  through  a  potato 
ricer,  capers,  and  celery  tips. 

Chicken  Salad  II 

Cut  cold  boiled  fowl  or  remnants  of  roast  chicken  in  one- 
half  inch  dice.  To  two  cups  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  moisten  with  Cream  Dressing 
U.  Mound  on  a  salad  dish,  cover  with  dressing,  and  garnish 
"With  capers,  thin  slices  cut  from  small  pickles,  and  curled 
celery. 


SALADS  345 

Individual  Chicken  Salads  in  Aspic 

Cover  bottom  of  individual  moulds  set  in  ice-water  with 
aspic  jelly  mixture.  When  jelly  is  firm  decorate  with  yolks 
and  whites  of  ^'  hard-boiled  "  eggs  cooked  as  for  Harlequin 
Slices  (see  p.  147)  and  truffles  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  or  pista- 
chio nuts  blanched  and  cut  in  halves.  Cover  decorations 
with  aspic  mixture,  being  careful  not  to  disarrange  the 
designs.  Finely  chop  cold  cooked  fowl  (preferably  breast- 
meat),  moisten  with  Mayonnaise  to  which  is  added  a  small 
quantity  of  dissolved  granulated  gelatine,  shape  in  balls, 
put  a  ball  in  each  mould,  and  add  gradually  aspic  mixture 
to  fill  moulds.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove  to  lettuce  leaves, 
and  arrange  around  a  dish  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Swiss  Salad 

Mix  one  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  cubes,  one 
cucumber  pared  and  cut  in  cubes,  one  cup  chopped  English 
walnut  meats,  and  one  cup  French  peas.  Marinate  with 
French  Dressing,  arrange  on  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Nile  Salad 

Cut  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  in  cubes  (there  should 
be  one  and  one-half  cups).  Put  one-half  cup  English  walnut 
meats  in  pan,  sprinkle  sparingly  with  salt,  and  add  three- 
fourths  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  in  a  slow  oven  until 
thoroughly  heated,  stirring  occasionally;  remove  from  oven 
and  break  in  pieces. 

Mix  chicken  and  nuts  and  marinate  with  French  Dressing. 
Add  three-fourths  cup  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Arrange 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and  mask  with  Ravigote  Mayonnaise 
(see  p.  344). 

Berkshire  Salad  in  Boxes 

Marinate  one  cup  cold  boiled  fowl  cut  into  dice  and  one  cup 
cooked  French  chestnuts  broken  in  pieces  with  French  Dress- 
ing. Add  one  finely  chopped  red  pepper  from  which  seeds 
have  been  removed,  one  cup  celery  cut  into  small  pieces, 
and  Mayonnaise  to  moisten.     Trim  crackers  (four  inches 


346  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

long  by  one  inch  wide,  slightly  salted)  at  ends,  using  a 
sharp  knife ;  arrange  on  plate  in  form  of  box,  keep  in  place 
with  red  ribbon  one-half  inch  wide,  and  fasten  at  one  corner 
by  tying  ribbon  in  a  bow.  Garnish  opposite  corner  with  a 
sprig  of  holly  berries.  Line  box  with  lettuce  leaves,  put  in  a 
spoonful  of  salad,  and  mask  with  Mayonnaise.  Any  colored 
ribbon  may  be  used,  and  flowers  substituted  for  berries. 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Salad 

Clean,  parboil,  and  drain  one  pint  oysters.  Remove 
tough  muscles,  and  mix  soft  parts  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
cold  boiled  fowl  cut  in  one-half  inch  dice.  Moisten  with  any 
salad  dressing,  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Sweetbread  and  Cucumber  Salad  I 

Parboil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  twenty  minutes;  drain, 
cool,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes.  Mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  cucumber  cut  in  one-half  inch  dice.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  German  Dressing. 
Arrange  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves  or  in  cucumber  cups, 
and  garnish  with  watercress.  To  prepare  cucumber  cups, 
pare  cucumbers,  remove  thick  slices  from  each  end,  and  cut 
in  halves  crosswise.  Take  out  centres,  put  cups  in  cold 
water,  and  let  stand  until  crisp ;  drain,  and  dry  for  refilling. 
Small  cucumbers  may  be  pared,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise, 
centres  removed,  and  cut  pointed  at  ends  to  represent  a 
boat. 

S'weetbread  and  Cucumber  Salad  II 

Parboil  a  sweetbread,  adding  to  water  a  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
a  slice  of  onion,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Cool,  and  cut  in 
small  cubes;  there  should  be  three-fourths  cup.  Add  an 
equal  quantity  of  cucumber  cubes.  Beat  one-half  cup  thick 
cream  until  stiff;  add  one-fourth  tablespoon  granulated 
gelatine  soaked  in  one-half  tablespoon  cold  water  and  dis- 
solved in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  boiling  water,  then 
add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  vinegar.  Add  sweetbread 
and  cucumber,  season  highly  with  salt  and  paprika,  mould, 
and  chill.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  French 
Dressing. 


SALADS  847 

Sweetbread  and  Celery  Salad 

Mix  equal  parts  of  parboiled  sweetbreads  cat  in  one-half 
inch  cubes  and  celery  finely  cut.  Moisten  with  Cream 
Dressing,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Harvard  Salad 

Make  lemon  baskets,  following  directions  for  Orange 
Baskets  (see  p.  429).  With  a  small  wooden  skewer  make 
an  incision  in  centre  of  each  handle  and  insert  a  small  sprig 
of  parsley.  Fill  baskets  with  equal  parts  of  cold  cooked 
sweetbread  and  cucumbe:;  cut  in  small  cubes,  and  one-fourth 
the  quantity  of  finely  cut  celery,  moistened  with  Cream 
Dressing  II  (see  p.  824).  Pare  round  red  radishes  as 
thinly  as  possible  and  finely  chop  parings.  Smooth  top  of 
baskets  and  cover  with  dressing.  Sprinkle  top  of  one-half 
the  baskets  with  chopped  parings,  the  remaining  half  with 
nnely  chopped  parsley.  Arrange  red  and  green  baskets 
alternately  on  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  watercress' 


348  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER   XXII 

ENTREES 
Batters  and  Fritters 

Batter  I 

1  cup  bread  flour  Few  grains  pepper 

y^  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  milk 

2  eggs 

Mix  3our,  salt,  and  pepper.     Add  milk  gradually,   ana 
eggs  well  beaten. 

Batter  II 

1  cup  bread  flour  %  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  sugar  %  tablespoon  olive  oil 

)^  teaspoon  salt  White  1  Qgg 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  and  salt.     Add  water  gradually,  then 
olive  oil  and  white  of  egg  beaten  until  stiff. 

Batter  III 

\y^  cups  flour  1^  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  milk 

legg 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,   and 
egg  well  beaten. 

Batter  IV 

1  cup  ticar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

\%  teaspoons  baking  powder  )^  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  1  Qg% 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,  and  egg 
well  beaten. 


ENTREES  349 


Batter  V 


1  cup  flour  Yolks  2  eggs 

)^  teaspoon  salt  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  milk  or  water  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

or  olive  oil 

Mix  salt  and  flour,  add  milk  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs 
beaten  until  thick,  butter,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff. 

Apple  Fritters  I 

2  medium-sized  sour  apples  Batter  III 

Powdered  sugar 

Pare,  core,  and  cut  apples  in  eighths,  then  cut  eighths  in 
slices,  and  stir  into  batter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  in 
deep  fat  (see  Rules  for  Testing  Fat,  page  21).  Drain  on 
brown  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve  hot 
on  a  folded  napkin. 

Apple  Fritters  II 
2  medium-sized  sour  apples  Batter  IV 

Prepare  and  cook  as  Apple  Fritters  I. 

Apple  Fritters  III 

Sour  apples  Lemon  juice 

Powdered  sugar  Batter  II 

Core,  pare,  and  cut  apples  in  one-third  inch  slices. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  few  drops  lemon  juice ; 
cover,  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Drain,  dip  pieces  in 
batter,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain'.  Arrange  on  a  folded 
napkin  in  form  of  a  circle,  and  serve  with  Sabyon  or  Hard 
Sauce. 

Banana  Fritters  I 

4  bananas  %  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Powdered  sugar  3  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

J4  rule  Batter  V 

Remove   skins   from   bananas.     Scrape   bananas,   cut  in 

halves  lengthwise,  and  cut  halves  in  two  pieces  crosswise. 


850  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  wine ;  cover, 
and  let  stand  thirty  minutes  ;  drain,  dip  in  batter,  fry  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

Banana  Fritters  II 

3  bananas  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bread  flour  3^  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar         1  tablespoon  leraon  juice 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg  until  light,  add 
milk,  and  combine  mixtures ;  then  add  lemon  juice  and 
banana  fruit  forced  through  a  sieve.  Drop  by  spoonfuls, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain.     Serve  with  Lemon  Sauce. 

Orange  Fritters 

Peel  two  oranges  and  separate  into  sections.  Make  an 
opening  in  each  section  just  large  enough  to  admit  of  pas- 
sage for  seeds,  which  should  be  removed.  Dip  sections  in 
Batter  II,  III,  IV,  or  V,  and  fry  and  serve  same  as  other 
fritters. 

Fruit  Fritters 

Fresh  peaches,  apricots,  or  pears  may  be  cut  in  pieces, 
dipped  in  batter,  and  fried  same  as  other  fritters.  Canned 
fruits  may  be  used,  after  draining  from  their  syrup. 

Cauliflower  Fritters 

Cold  cooked  cauliflower  Batter  V 

Salt  and  pepper 

Sprinkle  pieces  of  cauliflower  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
dip  in  Batter  I  or  V.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  browu 
paper. 

Fried  Celery 

Celery  cut  in  three-inch  Salt  and  pepper 

pieces  Batter  I,  III,  or  V 

Parboil  celery  until  soft,  drain,  sprinkle  with  salt?  and 
pepper,  dip  in  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauca. 


ENTKlfiES  351 

Sardines  Fried  in  Batter 
Drain  fish  and  pour  over  boiling  water  to  free  from  oD, 
then  remove  skins.     Dip  in  Batter  III,  fry  in  deep  fat,  aM 
drain  on  brown  paper.     Serve  with  Hot  Tartare  Sauce. 

Tomato  Fritters 

1  can  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

6  cloves  Few  grains  cayenne 

3^  cup  sugar  }^  cup  butter 

3  slices  onion  }^  cup  corn-starch 

Cook  first  four  ingredients  twenty  minutes,  rub  all  througfi 
n  sieve  except  seeds,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt 
butter^  and  when  bubbling,  add  corn-starch  and  tomato  grad- 
ually ;  cook  two  minutes,  then  add  egg  slightly  beaten. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  shallow  tin,  and  cool.  Turn  on  a 
board,  cut  in  squares,  diamonds,  or  strips.  Roll  in  crumbs, 
egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Cherry  Fritters 

2  cups  scalded  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3>^  cup  corn-starch  J^  cup  cold  milk 

^  cup  flour  Yolks  3  eggs 

y^  cup  sugar  %  cup  Maraschino  cherries, 

cut  in  halves 

Mix  corn-starch,  flour,  sugar,  and  salt.  Dilute  with  cold 
milk  and  add  beaten  yolks ;  then  add  gradually  to  scalded 
milk  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Add  cher- 
ries,  pour  into  a  buttered  shallow  tin,  and  cool.  Turn  on  & 
board,"  cut  in  squares,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain.     Serve  with  Maraschino  Sauce. 

Maraschino  Sauce 

%  cup  boiling  water  )^  cup  Maraschino  cherries, 

y^  cup  sugar  cut  in  halves 

2  tablespoons  corn-starch  %  cup  Maraschino  syrup 

%  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  sugar  and  corn-starch,  add  gradually  to  boiling  water, 
stin-ing  constantly.  Boil  five  minutes,  and  add  cherries, 
syrup,  Hnd  butter. 


852  BOSTON  COOKING -SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Farina  Cakes  with  Jelly 

2  cups  scalded  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

^  cup  farina  (scant)  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  ' 

Mix  farina,  sugar,  and  salt,  add  to  milk,  and  cook  in  doublfi 
boiler  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  haa 
thickened.  Add  Q,gg  slightly  beaten,  pour  into  a  buttered 
shallow  pan,  and  brush  over  with  one  egg  slightly  beaten 
and  diluted  with  one  tablespoon  milk.  Brown  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Cut  in  squares,  and  serve  with  a  cube  of  jelly  on  each 
squarG. 

Gnocchi  a  la  Romaua 

^  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  flour  2  cups  scalded  milk 

^4'  cup  corn-starch  Yolks  2  eggs 

^  cup  grated  cheese 

Melt  butter,  and  when  bubbling,  add  flour,  corn-starch, 
salt,  and  milk,  gradually.  Cook  three  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  one-half 
cup  cheese.  Pour  into  a  buttered  shallow  pan,  and  cool. 
Turn  on  a  board,  cut  in  squares,  diamonds,  or  strips.  Place 
on  a  platter,  sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese,  and  brown  in 
oven. 

Queen  Fritters 

y^  cup  butter  (scant)  %  cup  flour 

^  cup  boiling  water  2  eggs 

Fruit  preserve  or  marmalade 

Put  butter  in  small  saucepan  and  pour  on  water.  As  soon 
as  water  again  reaches  boiling-point,  add  flour  all  at  once 
and  stir  until  mixture  leaves  sides  of  saucepan,  cleaving  to 
spoon.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  eggs  unbeaten,  one  at  a 
time,  beating  mixture  thoroughly  between  addition  of  eggs. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  well  puffed  and 
browned.  Drain,  make  an  opening,  and  fill  with  preserve  or 
marmalade.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  on  & 
folded  napkin. 


ENTREES  853 

Chocolate  Fritters  -with  Vanilla  Sauce 

Make  Queen  Fritters,  fill  with  Chocolate  Cream  Filling, 
and  serve  with  Vanilla  Sauce ;  filling  to  be  cold  and  sauce 
warm. 

Coffee  Fritters,  Coffee  Cream  Sauce 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-half  inch  slices,  renove  crusts,  and 
cut  slices  in  one-half  inch  strips.  Mix  three-fourths  cup 
coffee  infusion,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  one-fourth  cup  cream. 
Dip  bread  in  mixture,  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again.  Fry 
in  deep  fat  and  drain.     Serve  with 

Coffee  Cream  Sauce.  Beat  yolks  three  eggs  slightly, 
add  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt, 
then  add  gradually  one  cup  coffee  infusion.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  mixture  thickens.  Cool,  and  fold  in  one- third 
cup  heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff.     - 

Sponge  Fritters 

2^  cups  flour  ^^  cup  melted  butter 

%  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  scalded  milk  2  eggs 

^  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  2  Grated  rind  }4  lemon 

tablespoons  lukewarm  water  Quince  marmalade 
Currant  jelly 

Make  a  sponge  of  one-half  the  flour,  sugar,  milk,  and  dis- 
solved yeast  cake  ;  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk.  Add  remain- 
ing ingredients  and  let  rise  again.  Toss  on  a  floured  board, 
roll  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness,  shape  with  a  small  biscuit 
cutter  (first  dipped  in  flour),  cover,  and  let  rise  on  board. 
Take  each  piece  and  hollow  in  centre  to  form  a  nest.  In 
one-half  the  pieces  put  one-half  teaspoon  of  currant  jelly 
and  quince  ma,rmalade  mixed  in  the  proportion  of  one  part 
jelly  to  two  parts  marmalade.  Brush  with  milk  edges  of 
filled  pieces.  Cover  with  unfilled  pieces  and  press  edges 
closely  oogether  with  fingers  first  dipped  in  flour.  If  this  is 
not  carefully  done  fritters  will  separate  during  frying.  Fry 
in  deep  fat,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar. 


864  BOSTON  CJOOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Calfs  Brains  Fritters 

Clean  brains,  and  cook  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  water, 
to  which  is  added  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  three  cloves,  two  slices  onion,  and  one-half 
bay  leaf.  Remove  from  range,  and  let  stand  in  water  until 
cold;  drain,  dry  between  towels,  and  separate  into  pieces. 
Make  a  batter  of  one-half  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  pepper,  one 
egg  well  beaten,  and  one-fourth  cup  milk.  Add  brains,  and 
drop  mixture  by  spoonfuls  into  greased  muffin  rings,  placed 
in  a  frying-pan  in  which  there  is  a  generous  supply  of  hot 
lard.  Cook  on  one  side  until  well  browned,  turn,  and  cook 
other  side.  Arrange  on  serving  dish  and  pour  around 
Sauce  Finiste  (see  p.  279). 

Clam  Fritters 

1  pint  clams  l)^cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
)^  cup  milk  Salt 

Pepper 

Clean  clams,  drain  from  their  liquor,  and  chop.  Beat  eggs 
until  light,  add  milk  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder,  then  add  chopped  clams^  and  season  highly  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Drop  by  spoonfuls,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve  at  once  on  a  folded 
napkin. 

Croquettes 

Before  making  Croquettes,  consult  Rules  for  Testing  Fat 
for  Frying,  page  21 ;  Egging  and  Crumbing,  page  22 ; 
Uses  for  Stale  Bread,  page  69 ;  and  Potato  Croquettes, 
page  316. 

Banana  Croquettes 

Remove  skins  from  bananas,  scrape,  using  a  silver  knife 
to  remove  the  astringent  principle  which  lies  close  to  skin, 
and  cut  in  halves  crosswise ;  then  remove  a  slice  from  each 
end.  Dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again^  fry  in  deep  fat, 
and  drain  on  brown  paper. 


ENTREES  866 

Cheese  Croquettes 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  mild  cheese,  cut  in 

y^  cup  jBour  very  small  cubes 

%  cup  milk  y^  cup  grated  Gruyfere  cheese 

Yolks  2  eggs  .  Salt  and  pepper 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce,  using  butter,  flour,  and  roilk, 
add  yolks  of  eggs  without  first  beating,  and  stir  until  well 
mixed ;  then  add  grated  cheese.  As  soon  as  cheese  melts, 
remove  from  fire,  fold  in  cheese  cubes,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne.  Spread  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  cool. 
Turn  on  a  board,  cut  in  small  squares  or  strips,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.     Serve  for  a  cheese  course. 

Chestnut  Croquettes 

1  cup  mashed  French  chestnuts  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  thick  cream  1  teaspoon  sugar 

}>^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Shape  in  balls,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  "drain. 

Chestnut  Roulettes 

1  cup  chestnut  puree  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  heavy  cream 
Few  drops  onion  juice  3^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  paprika 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  cook  two  minutes,  and 
cool.  Shape  a  little  larger  than  French  chestnuts,  dip  in 
crumbs,  q^^,  and  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain 
on  brown  paper. 

Lenten  Croquettes 

Soak  one-half  cup  lentils  and  one-fourth  cup  dried  lima 
beans  over  night,  in  cold  water  to  cover;  drain,  add  three 
pints  water,  one-half  small  onion,  one  stalk  celery,  three 
slices  carrot,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Cook  until  lentils  are 
soft,  remove  seasonings,  drain,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
To  pulp  add  one-half  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  egg  slightly 


356  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

beaten,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  one  tablespoon 
butter,  add  one  tablespoon  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one- 
third  cup  hot  cream;  combine  mixtures,  and  cool.  Shape, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and 
drain  on  brown  paper.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  I. 

Rice  Croquettes  -with  Jelly 

i^  cup  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

)^  cup  boiling  water  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1   tablespoon  butter 

Wash  rice,  add  to  water  with  salt,  cover,  and  steam  until 
rice  has  absorbed  water.  Then  add  milk,  stir  lightly  with  a 
fork,  cover,  and  steam  until  rice  is  soft.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  egg  yolks  and  butter  ;  spread  on  a  shallow  plate  to  cool. 
Shape  in  balls,  roll  in  crumbs,  then  shape  in  form  of  nests. 
Dip  in  egg,  again  in  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 
Put  a  cube  of  jelly  in  each  croquette.  Arrange  on  a  folded 
napkin,  and  garnish  with  parsley,  or  serve  around  game. 

Sweet  Rice  Croquettes 

To  rice  croquette  mixture  add  two  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar  and  grated  rind  one-half  lemon.  Shape  in  cylinder 
forms,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat, 
and  drain. 

Rice  and  Tomato  Croquettes 

^  cup  rice  2  cloves 

^  cup  stock  3^  teaspoon  peppercorns 

}4  can  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  slice  onion  1  egg 

1  slice  carrot  ^  cup  grated  cheese 

1  sprig  parsley  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  sprig  thyme  }4  teaspoon  salt 
Few  grains  cayenne 

Wash  rice,  and  steam  in  stock  until  rice  has  absorbed 
stock;  then  add  tomatoes  which  have  been  cooked  twenty 
minutes  with  onion,  carrot,  parsley,  thyme,  cloves,  pepper- 
corns, and  sugar,  and  then  rubbed  through  a  strainer. 
Kemove  from  fire,  add  egg  slightly  beaten,  cheese,  butter, 


ENTREES  857 

salt,  and  cayenne.  Spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Shape  in 
form  of  cylinders,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry 
in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Oyster  Crabs  k  la  Newburg 

1  cup  oyster  crabs  Salt 

1  cup  mushroom  caps  Cayenne 

3^  cup  Sherry  wine  Nutmeg 

^  cup  butter  ^  cup  cream 

1  tablespoon  flour  Yolks  two  eggs 

1  tablespoon  brandy 

Peel  mushroom  caps  and  break  in  pieces.  Add  oyster 
crabs  and  wine,  cover,  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Melt  butter, 
add  first  mixture,  and  cook  eight  minutes.  Add  flour,  and 
cook  two  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  nutmeg ; 
then  add  heavy  cream.  Just  before  serving  add  egg  yolks, 
slightly  beaten,  and  brandy. 

Oyster  and  Macaroni  Croquettes 

^  cup  macaroni,  broken  in  Few  grains  cayenne 

)^  inch  pieces  Few  grains  mace 

1  pint  oysters  X  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce  i^  cup  grated  cheese. 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft,  drain  in 
a  colander,  and  pour  over  macaroni  two  cups  cold  Fater. 
Clean  and  parboil  oysters,  remove  tough  muscles,  and  cut 
soft  parts  in  pieces.  Reserve  one-half  cup  oyster  liquor  and 
use  in  making  Thick  White  Sauce  in  place  of  all  milk. 
Mix  macaroni  and  oysters,  add  Thick  White  Sauce  and  season- 
ings. Spread  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg, 
and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Oysters  k  la  Somerset 

1  pint  selected  oysters  }4  cup  oyster  liquor 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion        i^  cup  Chicken  Stock 

2  tablespoons  chopped  mush-      Salt 

rooms  Pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  Cayenne 

4  tablespoons  flour 

Parboil  and  drain  oysters.  Reserve  liquor,  strain,  and 
set  aside  fpr  sauce.    Cook  onion  and  mushroom  in  butter 


358  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

five  minutes,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  oyster  liquor 
and  chicken  stock.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 
Remove  tough  muscles  from  oysters,  and  discard.  Shape 
oysters,  cover  with  sauce,  and  cool  on  a  plate  covered  with 
stale  bread  crumbs.  Dip  in  egg  and  stale  bread  crumbs,  fry 
in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

1^  cups  cold  flaked  salmon  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Salt 

Add  sauce  to  salmon,  then  add  seasonings.  Spread  on  a 
plate  to  cool.  Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Salmon  Cutlets 

Mix  equal  parts  of  cold  flaked  salmon  and  hot  mashed 
potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Shape  in  form  of 
cutlets,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  and  drain.  Arrange  in  a  circle,  having  cutlets  overlap 
one  another,  on  a  folded  napkin.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Lobster  Croquettes 

2  cups  chopped  lobster  meat       Few  grains  cayenne 
%  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  lemon 

)^  teaspoon  mustard  1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce 

Add  seasonings  to  lobster,  then  add  Thick  White  Sauce. 
Cool,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain.     Serve  with  Tomato  Cream  Sauce. 

Lobster  Cutlets 

2  cups  chopped  lobster  meat        1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
%  teaspoon  salt  Yolk  1  Qgg 

Few  grains  cayenne  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

Few  gratings  nutmeg  parsley 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  cool.  Shape  in  form 
of  cutlets,  crumb,  and  fry  same  as  croquettes.  Make  a  cut 
at  small  end  of  eacL  cutlet,  and  insert  in  each  the  tip  end  of 


ENTREES  859 

a  small  claw.    Stack  around  a  mound  of  parsley.    Serve  with 
Sauce  Tartare. 

Beef  and  Rice  Croquettes 
1  cup  chopped  beef  )^  teaspoon  pepper 

(cut  from  top  of  round)  Few  grains  cayenne 

3^  cup  rice  Cabbage 

%  teaspoon  salt  Tomato  Sauce 

Mix  beef  and  rice,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 
Cook  cabbage  leaves  two  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover. 
In  each  leaf  put  two  tablespoons  mixture,  and  fold  leaf  to 
enclose  mixture.     Cook  one  hour  in  Tomato  Sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Brown  four  tablespoons  butter,  add  five 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-half 
cups  each  Brown  Stock  and  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes. 
Add  one  slice  onion,  one  slice  carrot,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  four  cloves,  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne. 
Cook  ten  minutes,  and  strain. 

Lamb  Croquettes 

1  tiiblespoon  finely  chopped  1  cup  cold  cooked  lamb,  cut  in 

onion  small  cubes 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  boiled  potato  cubes 
)^  cup  flour                                      Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  stock  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

parsley 

Fry  onion  in  butter  five  minutes,  then  remove  onion.  To 
butter  add  flour  and  stock,  and  cook  two  minutes.  Add  meat, 
potato,  salt,  and  pepper.  Sim,mer  until  meat  and  potato  have 
absorbed  sauce.  Add  parsley,  and  spread  on  a  shallow  dish 
to  cool.  Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  Q%g^  and  crumbs  again,  fry 
in  deep  fat,  and  drain.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Veal  Croquettes 

2  cups  chopped  cold  cooked  veal  Few  grains  cayenne 
%  teaspoon  salt  Few  drops  onion  juice 
%  teaspoon  pepper  Yolk  1  egg 

1  cup  thick  sauce  made  of  White  Soup  Stock 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cool,  shape,  crumb,  and 
fry  same  as  other  croquettes. 


360  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chicken  Croquettes  I 

1^  cups  chopped  cold  cooked  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

fowl  Few  drops  onion  juice 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
^  teaspoon  celery  salt  parsley 

Few  grains  cayenne  1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cool,  shape,  crumb,  and 
fry  same  as  other  croquettes. 

White  meat  of  fowl  absorbs  more  sauce  than  dark  meat. 
This  must  be  remembered  if  dark  meat  alone  is  used.  Cro- 
quette mixtures  should  always  be  as  soft  as  can  be  con- 
veniently handled,  when  croquettes  will  be  soft  and  creamy 
inside. 

Chicken  Croquettes  II 

Clean  and  dress  a  four-pound  fowl.  Put  into  a  kettle 
with  &ix  cups  boiling  water,  seven  slices  carrot,  two  slices 
turnip,  one  small  onion,  one  stalk  celery,  one  bay  leaf,  and 
three  sprigs  thyme.  Cook  slowly  until  fowl  is  tender.  Re- 
move fowl;  strain  liquor,  cool,  and  skim  off  fat.  Make  a 
thick  sauce,  using  one-fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  flour, 
one  cup  chicken  stock,  and  one-third  cup  cream.  Remove 
meat  from  chicken,  chop,  and  moisten  wath  sauce.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne,  and  slight  grating  of  nutmeg ;  then  add 
one  beaten  ^^g,  cool,  shape,  crumb,  and  fry  same  as  other 
croquettes.  Arrange  around  a  mound  of  green  peas,  and 
serve  with  Cream  Sauce  or  Wine  Jelly. 

Chicken  and  Mushroom  Croquettes 
Make  as  Chicken  Croquettes  I,  using  one  and  one- third 
cups  chicken  meat  and  two-thirds  cup  chopped  mushrooms. 

Maryland  Croquettes 

Season  one  cup  chopped  cold  cooked  fowl  with  salt,  celery 
salt,  cayenne,  lemon  juice,  and  onion  juice;  moisten  with 
sauce,  and  cool.  Parboil  one  pint  selected  oysters,  drain, 
and  cover  each  oyster  with  chicken  mixture.  Dip  in  crumbs, 
^gg',  and  crumbs ;  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 

Sauce.  Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add 
iiartje  tablespoons  flour,  and  gradually  one-third  cup  oyster 


ENTREES  361 

liquor  and  two  tablespoons  cream.     Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne. 

Lincoln  Croquettes 
Mix  one  cup  each  bread  crumbs,  walnut  meats  cut  in 
pieces,  and  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  cubes.  Moisten  with 
a  sauce  made  by  melting  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter, 
adding  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and  pouring  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one-half  cup  chicken 
stock.  Season  with  salt,  celery  salt,  paprika,  nutmeg,  and 
Sherry  wine.  Shape  in  balls,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  with  a 
sauce  made  of  one-half  chicken  stock  and  one-half  cream 
and  flavored  with  Sherry  wine. 

Cutlets  of  Sweetbreads  k  la  Victoria 

2  pairs  parboiled  sweetbreads  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

3^  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

3^  teaspoon  pepper  1  egg 

1  cup  Thick  White  Sauce 

Chop  the  sweetbreads,  of  which  there  should  be  two 
cups ;  if  not  enough,  add  chopped  mushrooms  to  make  two 
cups,  then  season.  Add  egg,  slightly  beaten,  to  sauce,  and 
combine  mixtures.  Cool,  shape,  crumb,  and  fry.  Make  a 
cut  in  small  end  of  each  cutlet,  and  insert  in  each  a  piece  of 
cold  boiled  macaroni  one  and  one-half  inches  long.  Serve 
with  Allemande  Sauce. 

Epigrams  of  Sweetbreads 
Parboil  a  sweetbread,  drain,  place  in  a  small  mould, 
cover,  and  press  with  a  weight.  Cut  in  one-half  inch  slices, 
and  spread  with  the  following  mixture  :  Fry  one-third  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  shallot  in  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter  three  minutes,  add  three  tablespoons  chopped  mush- 
rooms, and  cook  three  minutes;  then  add  two  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  cup  stock,  two  tablespoons 
cream,  one  tablespoon  Sherry  wine,  one  egg  yolk,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cool,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 


862  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Swedish  Timbalea 

%  cup  flour  %  cup  milk 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,  and  beaten  Qgg ; 
then  add  olive  oil.  Shape,  using  a  hot  timbale  iron,  fry  in 
deep  fat  until  crisp  and  brown ;  take  from  iron  and  invert 
on  brown  paper  to  drain. 

To  Heat  Timbale  Iron.  Heat  fat  until  nearly  hot  enough 
to  fry  uncooked  mixtures.  Put  iron  into  hot  fat,  having  fat 
deep  enough  to  more  than  cover  it,  and  let  stand  until 
heated.  The  only  way  of  knowing  when  iron  is  of  right 
temperature  is  to  take  it  from  fat,  shake  what  fat  may  drip 
from  it,  lower  in  batter  to  three-fourths  its  depth,  raise  from 
batter,  then  immerse  in  hot  fat.  If  batter  does  not  cling  to 
iron,  or  drops  from  iron  as  soon  as  immersed  in  fat,  it  is 
either  too  hot  or  not  sufficiently  heated. 

To  Form  Timbales.  Turn  timbale  batter  into  a  cup. 
Lower  hot  iron  into  cup,  taking  care  that  batter  covers 
iron  to  only  three-fourths  its  depth.  When  immersed  in 
fat,  mixture  will  rise  to  top  of  iron,  and  when  crisp  and 
brown  may  be  easily  slipped  off.  If  too  much  batter  is 
used,  in  cooking  it  will  rise  over  top  of  iron,  and  in  order 
to  remove  timbale  it  must  be  cut  around  with  a  sharp  knife 
close  to  top  of  iron.  If  the  cases  are  soft  rather  than  crisp, 
batter  is  too  thick  and  must  be  diluted  with  milk. 

Fill  cases  with  Creamed  Oysters,  Chicken,  Sweetbreads, 
or  Chicken  and  Sweetbreads  in  combination  with  Mush- 
rooms. 

Bunuelca 

Use  recipe  for  and  fry  same  as  Swedish  Timbales,  using  a 
Bunuelos  iron.  Serve  with  cooked  fruit  and  with  or  with.- 
out  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Stra-wberry  Baskets 

Fry  Swedish  Timbales,  making  cases  one  inch  deep.  Fill 
with  selected  strawberries,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar. 
Serve  as  a  first  course  at  a  ladies'  luncheon. 


ENTREES  36S 

Rice  Timbales 
Pack  hot  boiled  rice  in  slightly  buttered  small  tin  moulds. 
Let  stand  in  hot  water  ten  minutes.     Use  as  a  garnish  for 
curried  meat,  fricassee,  or  boiled  fowl. 

Macaroni  Timbales 

Line  slightly  buttered  Dario  moulds  with  boiled  macaroni. 
Cut  strips  the  length  of  height  of  mould.,  and  place  closely 
together  around  inside  of  mould.  Fill  with  Chicken,  or 
Salmon  Force-meat.  Put  in  a  pan,  half  surround  with  hot 
water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  Lobster,  Bechamel,  or  Hollan- 
daise  Sauce  L 

Spaghetti  Timbales 

Line  bottom  and  sides  of  slightly  buttered  Dario  moulds 
with  long  strips  of  boiled  spaghetti  coiled  around  the  inside. 
Fill  and  bake  same  as  Macaroni  Timbales. 

Pimento  Timbales 

Line  small  timbale  moulds  with  canned  pimentoes.  Fill 
with  Chicken  Timbale  II  mixture  (see  p.  366),  and  bake 
until  firm.  Remove  from  moulds,  insert  a  sprig  of  parsley 
in  top  of  each,  and  serve  with 

Brown  Mushroom  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  i^  lb.  mushrooms 

Few  drops  onion  juice  1  teaspoon  beef  extract 

3)^  tablespoons  flour  Salt 

1  cup  cream  Paprika 

Melt  butter,  add  onion  juice,  and  cook  until  slightly 
browned ;  then  add  flour  and  continue  the  browning.  Pour 
on,  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  the  cream.  Clean 
mushrooms,  peal  caps,  cut  in  slices  lengthwise,  and  saute 
in  butter  flve  minutes.  Break  stems  in  pieces,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  liquor  is  reduced  to  one- 
third  cup  ;  then  strain.  Dissolve  beef  extract  in  mushroom 
liquor.  Add  to  sauce,  and  season  with  salt  and  paprika. 
Just  before  serving,  add  sauted  caps. 


364  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Halibut  Timbales  I 

1  lb.  halibut  Few  grains  cayenne 

1^  cup  thick  cream  1}4  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

^  teaspoon  salt  Whites  3  eggs 

Cook  halibut  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon 
juice;  add  cream  beaten  until  stifif,  then  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Turn  into  small,  slightly  buttered  moulds,  put  in  a 
pan,  half  surround  with  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Re- 
move from  moulds,  arrange  on  a  serving  dish,  pour  around 
Bechamel  Sauce  or  Lobster  Sauce  II,  and  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Halibut    Timbales  II 

1  lb.  halibut  ^  teaspoon  pepper 
^  cup  milk  Few  grains  cayenne 
Yolk  1  egg  %  teaspoon  corn-starch 
1^  teaspoons  salt  y^  cup  thick  cream 

Force  fish  through  a  meat  chopper,  then  rub  through  a 
sieve  or  finely  chop.  Add  yolk  of  egg,  seasonings,  corn- 
starch, and  cream  beaten  until  stiff.  Cook  same  as  Halibut 
Timbales  I  and  serve  with  Cream  or  Lobster  Sauce. 

Lobster  Timbales  I 
Sprinkle  slightly  buttered  Dario  or  timbale  moulds  with  lob- 
ster coral  rubbed  through  a  strainer.  Line  moulds  with  Fish 
Force-meat  I,  fill  centres  with  Creamed  Lobster,  and  cover 
with  force-meat.  Put  in  a  pan,  half  surround  with  hot  water, 
place  over  moulds  buttered  paper,  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  Lobster  or  Bechamel 
Sauce. 

Lobster  Timbales  II 

2  lb.  live  lobster  2  eggs 

^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  Sherry  wine 

^  cup  heavy  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

Split  lobster,  remove  intestinal  vein,  liver,  and  stomach. 
Crack  claw  shells  with  mallet,  then  remove  all  meat,  scrap- 
ing as  close  to  shell  as  possible  to  obtain  the  color  desired. 


BNTEBBS  865 

Force  meat  through  a  sieve,  add  bread  crumbs,  cream, 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  Sherry  wine  to 
taste.  Fill  small  timbale  moulds  two-thirds  full,  place  in 
iron  frying-pan,  and  pour  in  boiling  water  to  two-thirds  the 
depths  of  the  moulds.  Place  over  moulds  buttered  paper 
and  cook  on  the  range  until  firm,  keeping  water  below  the 
boiling-point.  Remove  from  moulds  and  serve  with  Hot 
Mayonnaise  (see  p.  278). 

Lobster  Cream  I 

2  lb.  lobster  2  teaspoons  anchovy  sauce 

%  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  milk  Few  grains  cayenne 

3^  cup  cream  Whites  3  eggs 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  chop  finely.  Cook 
bread  and  milk  ten  minutes.  Add  cream,  seasonings,  and 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  one  slightly 
buttered  timbale  mould  and  two  slightly  buttered  Dario 
moulds.  Bake  as  Lobster  Timbales.  Remove  to  serving 
dish,  having  larger  mould  in  centre,  smaller  'moulds  one  at 
either  end.  Pour  around  Lobster  Sauce  I,  sprinkle  with 
coral  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  garnish  with  pieces  of 
lobster  shell  from  tail,  and  parsley. 

Lobster  Cream  II 

1  cup  chopped  lobster  meat  Few  drops  onion  juice 

1  tablespoon  butter  »  2  %%%  yolks 


1  tablespoon  flour  y^  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  V^  cup  heavy  cream 

%  teaspoon  paprika  White  one  ^gg^  beaten  stiff 


Cook  lobster  meat  with  butter  five  minutes.  Add  flour, 
seasonings,  egg  yolks,  milk,  cream  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
white  of  egg.  Fill  buttered  timbale  moulds  three-fourths 
full,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
bake  until  firm.     Serve  with  Lobster  Sauce. 

Chicken  Timbales  I 

Garnish  slightly  buttered  Dario  moulds  with  chopped  truf- 
fles or  slices  of  trufldes  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Line  with 
Chicken  Force-meat  I,  fill  centres  with  Creamed  Chicken  and 


366  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Mushrooms,  to  which  has  been  added  a  few  chopped  truffles. 
Cover  with  Force-meat,  and  bake  same  as  Lobster  Timbales 
Serve  with  Bechamel  or  Yellow  Bechamel  Sauce. 

Chicken  Timbales  II 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  tablespoon  chopped 

J^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  parsley 

y^  cup  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  cooked  chicken  Salt 

Pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  bread  crumbs  and  milk,  and  cook  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  chicken,  parsley,  and 
eggs  slightly  beaten.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn 
into  buttered  individual  moulds,  having  moulds  two-thirds 
full  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  Bechamel  Sauce. 

Chicken  Timbales  III 

Soak  one-half  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  in  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  three-fourths 
cup  chicken  stock.  Add  one  cup  chopped  cooked  chicken, 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  one 
cup  cream  beaten  until  thick.  Add  one  tablespoon  Sherry 
wine  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Mould,  chill,  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

Ham  Timbales 

Make  and  bake  same  as  Chicken  Timbales  IT,  using 
chopped  cooked  ham  in  place  of  chicken.  Serve  with  Bech- 
amel Sauce. 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom  Timbales 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  sliced  onion  five 
minutes.  Add  one  "and  one-half  cups  mushroom  caps  finely 
chopped,  and  one  small  parboiled  sweetbread,  finely  chopped ; 
then  add  one  cup  White  Sauce  II,  one-fourth  cup  stale  bread, 
crumbs,  one  red  pepper  chopped,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
yolks  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  whites  two  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff.    Fill  buttered  timbale  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot 


ENTREES  367 

water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  to  serving  dish  and  pour  around 

Mushroom  Sauce.  Clean  five  large  mushroom  caps,  cut 
in  halves  crosswise,  then  in  slices.  Saute  in  three  table- 
spoons butter  five  minutes;  dredge  with  two  tablespoons 
flour,  add  one-third  cup  cream  and  one  cup  chicken  stock, 
and  cook  two  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and 
add  one  chopped  truflae. 

Sweetbread  Mousse 

Parboil  a  sweetbread  ten  minutes,  chop,  and  rub  through 
sieve ;  there  should  be  one-half  cup.  Mix  with  one-third  cup 
breast  meat  of  a  raw  chicken,  and  rub  through  sieve.  Pound 
in  mortar,  add  gradually  white  of  one  egg,  and  work  until 
smooth,  then  add  three- fourth '-j  cup  heavy  cream.  Line  but- 
tered timbale  moulds  with  mixture,  fill  centres,  cover  with 
mixture,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered 
paper  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  and  pour 
around  sauce. 

Filling.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  tablespoon 
corn-starch,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-fourth  cup  White  Stock ; 
then  add  one-third  cup  parboiled  sweetbread  cut  in  cubes, 
one  tablespoon  Sherry  wine,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Sauce.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  one  cup  rich  chicken  stock  and  one- 
half  cup  heavy  cream.  Season  with  one  tablespoon  Sherry 
wine,  one-fourth  teaspoon  beef  extract,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

Suprdme  of  Chicken 

Breast  and  second  joints  of  un-  4  eggs 

cooked  chicken  weighing  1)^  cups  thick  cream 

4  lbs.  Salt  and  pepper 

Force  chicken  through  a  meat  chopper,  or  chop  ver^finely. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  add  one  at  a  time,  stirring  until  mix- 
ture is  smooth.  Add  cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Turn  into  slightly  buttered  Dario  moulds,  and  bate 
same  as  Lobster  Timbales,  allowing  thirty  minutes  for  bak- 
ing.   Serve  with  Supreme  or  Bechamel  Saace. 


368  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 


Devilled  Oysters 

1  pint  oysters  ^  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

)^  cup  butter  parsley 

y^  cup  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  milk  Few  grains  cayenne 

Yolk  1  ^g'g  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Clean,  drain,  and  slightly  chop  oysters.  Make  a  sauce 
of  butter,  flour,  and  milk;  add  egg  yolk,  seasonings,  and 
oysters.  Arrange  buttered  scallop  shells  in  a  dripping-pan, 
half  fill  with  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Deep  oyster  shells 
may  be  used  in  place  of  scallop  shells. 

Crab  meat,  Indienne 

2  tablespoons  butter  J^  tablespoon  curry  powder 
1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  onion         1  cup  chicken  stock 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  crab  meat 

Salt 

Cook  butter  with  onion  three  minutes,  add  flour  mixed 
with  curry  powder  and  chicken  stock.  When  boiling-point  is 
reached  add  crab  meat  and  season  with  salt. 

Devilled  Crabs 

1  cup  chopped  crab  meat  Yolks  2  eggs 

J^  cup  mushrooms,  finely  chopped  2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
2  tablespoons  flour  parsley 

%  cup  White  Stock  Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  stock;  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  seasonings  (except  parsley),  crab  meat,  and  mush- 
rooms. Cook  three  minutes,  add  parsley,  and  cool  mixture. 
Wash  and  trim  crab  shells,  fill  rounding  with  mixture, 
sprinkle  wdth  stale  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  a  small  quantity 
of  melted  butter.  Crease  on  top  with  a  case  knife,  having 
three  lines  parallel  with  each  other  across  shell  and  three 
short  lines  branching  from  outside  parallel  lines.  Bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 


ENTREES  369 

Devilled  Scallops 

1  quart  scallops  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

1^  teaspoon  made  mustard        %  cup  buttered  cracker 

crumbs 

Clean  scallops,  drain,  and  heat  to  the  boiling-point ;  drain 
again,  and  reserve  liquor.  Cream  the  butter,  add  mustard, 
salt,  cayenne,  two-thirds  cup  reserved  liquor,  and  scallops 
chopped.  Let  stand  oue-lialf  hour.  Put  in  a  baking-dish, 
cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Fried  Oyster  Crabs 
Wash  and  drain  crabs.  Roll  in  flour,  and  shake  in  a  sieve 
to  remove  superfluous  flour.  Fry  in  a  basket  in  deep  fat, 
having  fat  same  temperature  as  for  cooked  mixtures.  Drain, 
and  place  on  a  napkin,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  slices 
of  lemon.     Serve  with  Sauce  Tyrolienne. 

Bouchees  of  Oyster  Crabs 

Pick  over  oyster  crabs,  dip  in  flour,  cold  milk,  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Fill  bouchee 
cases  with  crabs. 

Halibut  Marguerites 

Line  a  buttered  tablespoon  with  Fish  Force-meat  11.  Fill 
with  Creamed  Lobster,  cover  with  force-meat,  and  garnish 
with  force-meat,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  in 
the  form  of  a  marguerite,  having  the  centre  colored  yellow. 
Slip  from  spoon  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  eight  minutes. 
Serve  with  Bechamel  or  Lobster  Sauce. 

Cromesquis  k  la  Russe 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour, 
and  pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup  milk ;  then  add  one-half 
cup  finnan  haddie  which  has  been  parboiled,  drained,  and 
separated  into  small  pieces.  Season  with  cayenne,  and 
spread  on  a  plate  to  cooL  Cut  French  pancakes  in  pieces 
two  by  four  inches.  On  lower  halves  of  pieces  put  one 
tablespoon  mixture.    Brush  edges   with   beaten   egg,   fold 

94 


370  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

over  upper  halves,  press  edges  firmly  together,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain. 
Serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

French  Pancakes.  To  one-fourth  cup  bread  flour  add 
one-third  cup  milk,  one  egg,  and  one-tourth  teaspoon  salt ; 
beat  thoroughly.  Heat  an  omelet  pan,  butter  generously, 
cover  bottom  of  pan  with  mixture,  cook  until  browned  on 
one  side,  turn,  and  cook  on  other  side. 

Shad  Roe  with  Celery- 
Clean  a  shad  roe,  cook  in  boiling,  salted,  acidulated  water 
twenty  minutes,  and  drain.  Plunge  into  cold  water,  drain, 
remove  membrane,  and  separate  roe  into  pieces.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  roe,  and  cook  ten  minutes ;  then 
add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  cup  chopped  celery,  few 
drops  each  onion  and  lemon  juice,  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  on  pieces  of  toasted  bread. 

Stuffed  Clams 
Cover  bottom  of  dripping-pan  with  rock  salt.  Arrange 
two  quarts  large-sized  soft-shelled  clams  on  salt,  in  such  a 
manner  that  liquor  will  not  run  into  pan  as  clam  shells  open. 
As  soon  as  shells  begin  to  open,  remove  clams  from  shells, 
and  chop.  Reserve  liquor,  strain,  and  use  in  making  a 
thick  sauce  (follow  directions  for  thick  White  Sauce  for 
Croquettes,  p.  266),  making  one-half  rule,  and  using  one- 
fourth  cup  each  clam  liquor  and  cream.  Season  highly  with 
lemon  juice  and  cayenne.  Moisten  clams  with  sauce,  fill 
shells,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  cover  with  buttered  soft 
stale  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Crab  Meat,  Terrapin  Style 

1  cup  crab  meat  2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  heavy  cream 
^  small  onion,  thinly  sliced            Yolks  2  eggs 

Salt  and  cayenne 

Cook  butter  and  onion  until  yellow ;  remove  onion,  add 
crab  meat  and  wine.  Cook  three  minutes,  add  cream,  yolks 
of  eggs,  salt,  and  cayenne. 


ENTREES  871 


Mock  Crab3 


4  tablespoons  butter  1)^  cups  scalded  milk 

1^  cup  flour  1  can  Kornlet 

1)4  teaspoons  salt  1  egg 

^  teaspoon  mustard  3  teaspoons  Worcestershire  Sauce 

1^  teaspoon  paprika  1  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  mixed  with  dry  seasonings,  and 
pour  on  gradually  the  milk.  Add  Kornlet,  egg  slightly 
beaten,  and  Worcestershire  Sauce.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Martin's  Specialty 

)4  tablespoon  onion  (finely  chopped)  Stock 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  egg  yolk 

1  cup  chopped  cooked  chicken  or  veal  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  Lettuce 

Cook  onion  in  butter  three  minutes.  Add  meat  and 
bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  stock,  and  add  egg  yolk  and 
seasonings.  Wrap  in  lettuce  leaves,  allowing  two  table- 
spoons mixture  to  each  portion.  Tie  in  cheese-cloth  and 
steam.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  pour  around  Tomato 
Sauce. 

Sv^eetbread  Ramequins 
Clean  and  parboil  a  sweetbread  and  cut  in  cubes.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and 
pour  on  gradually  one  cup  chicken  stock.  Reheat  sweet- 
bread in  sauce  and  add  one-fourth  cup  heavy  cream  and 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  beef  extract.  Season  with  salt, 
paprika,  and  lemon  juice.  Fill  ramequin  dishes,  cove" 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Sweetbread  k  la  Mont  Vert 

Parboil  a  pair  of  sweetbreads,  and  gash.  Decorate  in 
gashes  with  truffles  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  slice  in  fancy 
shapes.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  slices 
onion,  six  slices  carrot,  and  sweetbreads ;  fry  five  minutes. 
Four  off  butter,  and  add  one-fourth  cup  brown  stock  and 


372  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

two  tablespoons  Sherry  wine.  Cook  in  oven  twenty-five 
minutes,  basting  often  until  well  glazed.  Serve  in  nests 
of  peas,  and  pour  around  Mushroom  Sauce. 

Nests.  Drain  and  rinse  one  can  peas,  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Add  three  tablespoons  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling-point,  and  shape  in  nests,  using 
pastry  bag  and  tube^ 

Mushroom  Sauce.  Clean  three  large  .  mushroom  caps, 
cut  in  halves  crosswise,  then  in  slices.  Saute  in  two  table- 
spoons butter  five  minutes.  Dredge  with  one  tablespoon 
flour,  and  add  one  cup  cream  and  liquor  left  in  pan  in  which 
sweetbreads  were  cooked.     Cook  two  minutes. 

Sweetbread  in  Peppers 

Parboil  sweetbread,  cool,  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  there 
should  be  one  cup.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup  chic- 
ken stock;  then  add  two  tablespoons  heavy  cream,  and 
one-third  cup  mushroom  caps  broken  in  small  pieces.  Season 
with  salt,  paprika,  and  "Worcestershire  Sauce.  Cut  a  slice 
from  stem  end  of  six  peppers,  remove  seeds,  and  parboil 
peppers  five  minutes.  Cool,  fill,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Break  stems  of  mush- 
rooms, cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  a  few  drops  onion  juice, 
two  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  water 
drained  from  mushroom  stems,  and  enough  chicken  stock  to 
make  one  cup.  Add  one-fourth  cup  heavy  cream,  and  season 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Pour  sauce  around  peppers.  When 
parboiling  peppers  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda  to  water. 

Cutlets  of  Chicken 

Remove  fillets  from  two  chickens;  for  directions,  see 
page  245.  Make'  six  parallel  slanting  incisions  in  each 
mignon  fillet  and  insert  in  each  a  slice  of  truffle,  having  the 
part  of  truffle  exposed  cut  in  points  on  edge.  Arrange  small 
fillets  on  large  fillets.  Garnish  with  truffles  cut  in  small 
shapes,  and  Chicken  Force-meat  forced  through  a  pastry 
bag  and  tube.     Place  in  a  greased  pan,  add  oue-third  cup 


ENTREES  873 

White  Stock,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  with  Supreme  or  Be'chamel 
Sauce. 

Fillets  of  Game 

Remove  skin  from  breasts  of  three  partridges.  Cut  off 
breasts,  leaving  wing  joints  attached.  Separate  large  from 
mignon  fillets.  Make  five  parallel  slanting  incisions  in  each 
mignon  fillet,  and  insert  in  each  a  slice  of  trufile,  having 
part  of  truffle  exposed  cut  in  points  on  edge.  Beginning 
at  outer  edge  of  large  fillets  make  deep  cuts,  nearly  sepa- 
rating fillets  in  two  parts,  and  stuff  with  Chicken  Force- 
meat I  or  II.  Arrange  small  fillets  on  large  fillets.  Place 
in  a  greased  baking-pan,  brush  over  with  butter,  add  one 
tablespoon  Madeira  wine  and  two  tablespoons  mushroom 
liquor.  Cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  twelve  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  with  Supreme  Sauce. 

Chicken  Cutlets 

Remove  fillets  from  two  chiclcens;  for  directions,  see 
page  245.  Dip  each  in  thick  cream,  roll  in  flour,  and  saute 
in  larcl  thiee  minutes.  Place  in  a  pan,  dot  over, with  butter, 
and  bake  ten  minutes.  Serve  with  White  Sauce  I,  to  which 
is  added  one  tablespoon  meat  extract. 

Russian  Cutlets 

Cover  bottom  of  cutlet  moulds  with  Russian  Pilaf  and 
cover  Pilaf  with  Chicken  Force-meat  II  (see  p.  150),  dou- 
bling the  recipe  and  omitting  nutmeg.  Set  moulds  in  pan  of 
hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  from  moulds  to  serving 
dish,  surround  with  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce,  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Russian  Pilaf.  Wash  one-half  cup  rice.  Mix  one  cup 
highly  seasoned  chicken  stock  with  three-fourths  cup  stewed 
and  strained  tomato,  and  heat  to  boiling-point.  Add  rice, 
and  steam  until  rice  is  soft.  Add  two  tablespoons  butter, 
stirring  lightly  with  a  fork  that  kernels  may  not  be  broken, 
and  season  with  salt 


874  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Brov^n  Mushroom  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  1|^  cups  brown  stock 

1  slice  carrot  %  lb-  mushrooms 

1  slice  onion  1  cup  cold  water 

1  tablespoon  lean  raw  1  teaspoon  beef  extract 

ham,  finely  chopped  Salt 

6  tablespoons  flour  Pepper 

Cook  butter  with  vegetables  and  ham  until  brown,  add 
flour,  and  when  well  browned  add  stock,  gradually,  then 
strain.  Clean  mushroom  stems,  break  in  pieces,  cover  with 
water,  and  cook  slowly  until  stock  is  reduced  to  one-third 
cup.  Strain,  and  add  to  sauce  with  beef  extract  and  season- 
ings. Just  before  serving  add  mushroom  caps  peeled,  cut 
in  slices  lengthwise,  and  sauted  in  butter  five  minutes. 

Chicken  k  la  McDonald 

1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  3  tablespoons  butter 

in  strips  3  tablespoons  flour 

3  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  \}4.  cups  scalded  milt 

in  one-third  inch  slices  Salt 

1  truflSe  cut  in  strips  Pepper 

Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  chicken, 
potatoes,  and  traffic,  and,  as  soon  as  heated,  add  seasoning. 

Chicken  Mousse 
Make  a  chicken  force-meat  of  one-half  the  breast  of  a  raw 
chicken  pounded  and  forced  through  a  puree  strainer,  the 
white  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  one-half  cup  heavy  cream, 
and  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Add  three-fourths 
cup  cooked  white  chicken  meat  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  the 
white  of  an  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  one-half  cup  heavy  cream 
beaten  until  stiff.  Decorate  a  buttered  mould  with  truffles, 
turn  in  mixture,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  to  platter,  and  pout 
around  Cream  or  Bechamel  Sauce. 

Fillets  of  Chicken,  Sauce  Suprdme 

Remove  fillets  from  three  chickens,  leaving  wing  joint  and 
a  piece  of  bone  attached  to  each  fillet     Resei*ve  mignon 


Russian  Cutlets.  —  Page  S7S, 


Dbesdek  Patties.  —  Page  S80, 


376  BOSTON   COOKING -SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Breast  of  Quail  LucuUus 

Remove  breasts  with  bone  from  six  quail,  lard,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes,  basting  every  five  minutes  with 
rich  brown  stock,  that  breasts  may  have  a  glazed  appear- 
ance. Mould  corn  meal  or  hominy  mush  in  cone  shape; 
when  firm  remove  from  mould  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Arrange  breasts  on  cone  around  base, 
and  make  six  nests  of  mashed  seasoned  sweet  potato 
around  base  of  cone  at  equal  distances,  using  a  pastry  bag 
and  rose  tube.  Fill  nests  with  creamed  mushrooms  and 
sweetbread.  Garnish  between  nests  with  toasted  bread 
points,  the  tips  of  which  have  been  brushed  with  white  of 
egg,  then  dipped  in  finely  chopped  parsley.  Insert  a  stab 
frill  in  each  nest  and  one  in  top  of  cone. 

Serve  with  one  and  one-half  cups  rich  brown  sauce  sea- 
soned with  tomato  catsup  and  mashed  sweet  potato.  A 
small  amount  of  the  sweet  potato  gives  a  suggestion  of 
chestnuts. 

Pan  Broiled  Lamb  Chops  a  la  Lucullus 

Pan  broil  lamb  chops  and  garnish  same  as  Breast  of  Quail 
Lucullus. 

Chickens'  Livers  en  Brochette 

Cut  each  liver  in  four  pieces.  Alternate  pieces  of  liver 
and  pieces  of  thinly  sliced  bacon  on  skewers,  allowing  one 
liver  and  five  pieces  of  bacon  for  each  skewer.  Balance 
skewers  in  upright  positions  on  rack  in  dripping-pan.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  bacon  is  crisp.  Serve  garnished  with 
watercress. 

Chestnuts  en  Casserole 

Remove  shells  from  three  cups  chestnuts,  put  in  a  casse- 
role dish,  and  pour  over  three  cups  highly  seasoned  chicken 
stock.  Cover,  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  three  hours ;  then 
thicken  chicken  stock  with  two  tablespoons  butter  and  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  flour  cooked  together.  Send  to 
table  in  casserole  (iisb. 


ENTRJ^ES  87^ 

Cheese  Fondue 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs  y^  teaspoon  salt 
^  lb.  mild  cheese,  cut  in  small             Yolks  3  eggs 

pieces  Whites  3  eggs 

Mix  first  five  ingredients,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until 
lemon-colored.  Cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff.  Pour  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cheese  Soufn6 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

3  tablespoons  flour  3^  cup  grated  Old  English  or 
y^  cup  scalded  milk  Young  America  cheese 
y^  teaspoon  salt  Yolks  3  eggs 

Whites  3  eggs 

Melt  batter,  add  flour,  and  when  well-mixed  add  gradu- 
ally scalded  milk.  Then  add  salt,  cayenne,  and  cheese. 
Remove  from  fire ;  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  lemon- 
colored.  Cool  mixture,  and  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve 
at  once. 

Ramequins  SouSl^s 

Bake  Cheese  Souflfle  mixture  in  ramequin  dishes.  Serve 
for  a  course  in  a  dinner. 

Cheese  Balls 

\y^  cups  grated  mild  cheese  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  flour  Whites  3  eggs 

y^  teaspoon  salt  Cracker  dust 

Mix  cheese  with  flour  and  seasonings.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  until  stiff,  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Shape  in  small 
balls,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.     Serve  with  salad  course. 

Compote  of  Rice  with  Peaches 
Wash  two-thirds  cup   rice,  add  one   cup   boiling  water, 
and  steam  until  rice  has  absorbed  water ;  then  add  one  and 


878  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

one-third  cups  hot  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-fourth 
cup  sugar.  Cook  until  rice  is  soft.  Turn  into  a  slightly 
buttered  round  shallow  mould.  When  shaped,  remove  from 
mould  to  serving  dish,  and  arrange  on  top  sections  of  cooked 
peaches  drained  from  their  syrup  and  dipped  in  macaroon 
dust.  Garnish  between  sections  with  candied  cherries  and 
angelica  cut  in  leaf-shapes.  Angelica  may  be  softened  by 
dipping  in  hot  water.  Color  peach  syrup  with  fruit  red,  and 
pour  around  mould. 

Compote  of  Rice  and  Pears 

Cook  and  mould  rice  as  for  Compote  of  Rice  with  Peaches. 
Arrange  on  top  quarters  of  cooked  pears,  and  pour  around 
pear  syrup. 

Croustades  of  Bread 

Cut  stale  bread  in  two  inch  slices,  and  slices  in  diamonds, 
squares,  or  circles.  Eemove  centres,  leaving  cases.  .  Fry  in 
deep  fat  or  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  and  brown  in 
oven.     Fill  with  creamed  vegetables,  fish,  or  meat. 

Rice  Croustades 

Wash  one  cup  rice,  and  steam  in  White  Stock.  Cool, 
and  mix  with  three-fourths  cup  Thick  White  Sauce,  to  which 
has  been  added  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  slight  grating  of 
nutmegs  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper.  Spread  mixture  in  buttered  pan  two  inches  thick, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  place  weight  on  top.  Let 
stand  until  cold.  Turn  from  pan,  cut  in  rounds,  remove 
centres,  leaving  cases ;  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.     Fill  with  creamed  fish. 

SouiII§  au  Rhum 

Yolks  2  eggs  1  tablespoon  rum 

^  cup  powdered  sugar  Whites  4  eggs 

Few  grains  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  lemon-colored.  Add  sugar,  salt, 
and  rum.  Cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff 
and  dry.  Butter  a  hot  omelet  pan,  pour  in  one-half  mixture, 
brown   underneath,  fold  gradually,  turn  on  a  hot  serving 


ENTREES  379 

dish,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Cook  remaining 
mixture  in  same  way.  Souffle  au  Rhum  should  be  slightly 
underdone  inside.  At  gentlemen's  dinners  rum  is  sometimes 
poured  around  souffle  and  lighted  when  sent  to  table. 

Omelet  Soufil^ 

Yolks  2  eggs  )4.  teaspoon  vanilla 

1^  cup  powdered  sugar  Whites  4  eggs 

Few  grains  salt 

Prepare  same  as  Souffle  au  Rhum.  '  Mound  three- fourths 
of  mixture  on  a  slightly  buttered  platter.  Decorate  mound 
with  remaining  mixture  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and 
tube.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  ten  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Patties 

Patty  shells  are  filled  with  Creamed  Oysters,  Oysters  in 
Brown  Sauce,  Creamed  Chicken,  Creamed  Chicken  and 
Mushrooms,  or  Creamed  Sweetbreads.  They  are  arranged 
on  a  folded  napkin,  and  are  served  for  a  course  at  dinner 
or  luncheon. 

Bouch^es 

Small  pastry  shells  filled  with  creamed  meat  are  called 
bouchees. 

Vol-au-vents 

Vol-au-vents  are  filled  same  as  patty  shells. 

Rissoles 

Roll  puff  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  thickness,  and  cut  in 
rounds.  Place  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  seasoned  meat 
moistened  with  Thick  White  Sauce  on  each  round.  Brush 
each  piece  with  cold  water  half-way  round  close  to  edge. 
Fold  like  a  turnover,  and  press  edges  together.  Dip  in  ^^^ 
slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with  one  tablespoon  water.  Roll 
in  gelatine,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain.  Granulated  gelatine 
cannot  be  used. 

Filling  for  Rissoles.  Mix  one-half  cup  finely  chopped 
cold  cooked   chicken  with   one-fourth  cup   finely  chopped 


380  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

cooked  ham.     Moisten  with  Thick  White  Sauce,  and  season 
with  salt  and  cayenne. 

Cigarettes  a  la  Prince  Henry- 
Roll  puff  paste  very  thin,  and  spread  with  Chicken  Force- 
meat. Roll  like  a  jelly  roll,  and  cut  in  pieces  four  inches 
long  and  a  little  larger  round  than  a  cigarette.  Brush  over 
with  egg,  roll  in  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  Arrange  log-cabin  fashion  on  a  folded  doily,  and 
serve  while  hot. 

Zigaras  k  la  Russe 

Make  and  fry  same  as  Cigarettes  a  la  Prince  Henry,  using 
cheese  mixture  in  place  of  Chicken  Force-meat.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  four  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on 
gradually  one-half  cup  milk,  then  add  one  tablespoon  heavy 
cream,  one  egg  yolk,  and  one-third  cup  grated  cheese.  Sea- 
son highly  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Cool  before  spreading  on 
paste. 

Dresden  Patties 

Cut  stale  bread  in  two-inch  slices,  shape  with  a  round 
cutter  three  inches  in  diameter,  and  remove  centres,  making 
cases.  Dip  cases  in  egg,  slightly  beaten,  diluted  with  milk 
and  seasoned  with  salt,  allowing  two  tablespoons  milk  to 
each  egg.  When  bread  is  thoroughly  soaked,  drain,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat.     Fill  with  any  mixture  suitable  for  patty  cases. 

Russian  Fatties 

1  pint  oysters  }4  tablespoon  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  butter  ^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

4  3^  tablespoons  flour  ^        Yolks  2  eggs 

^  cup  chicken  stock  1  tablespoon  grated  horseradish 

}^  cup  cream  2  tablespoons  capers 

Salt  and  pepper 

Parboil  oysters,  drain,  and  reserve  liquor;  there  should  be 
one-half  cup.  Make  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  stock,  03^ster 
liquor,  and  cream ;  add  yolks  of  eggs,  seasonings,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  oysters,  and  as  soon  as  oysters 
are  heated,  fill  patty  shells. 


ENTREES  381 

Cheese  Souffl6  with  Pastry 

2  eggs  K  cup  grated  Parmesan 

^  cup  thick  cream  cheese 

%,  cup  Swiss  cheese,  cut  Salt  and  pepper 

in  small  dice  Few  grains  cayenne 

^  cup  grated  American  cheese  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

Add  eggs  to  cream  and  beat  slightly,  then  add  cheese  and 
seasonings.  Line  the  sides  of  ramequin  dishes  with  strips 
of  puff  paste.  Fill  dishes  with  mixture  until  two-thirds  full. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  I 

Lamb  Rissoles  a  rindienne 

Eoll  puff  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick  and  shape,  using  cir- 
cular cutters  of  different  sizes.  On  the  centres  of  smaller 
pieces  put  one  tablespoon  prepared  lamb  mixture,  wet  edges, 
cover  with  large  pieces,  press  edges  firmly  together,  prick 
upper  paste  in  several  places,  brush  over  with  yolk  of  q^% 
diluted  with  one  teaspoon  cold  water,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Lamb  Filling.  Cook  three  tablespoons  butter,  with  a  few 
drops  onion  juice,  until  well  browned,  add  one-fourth  cup 
flour,  and  brown  butter  and  flour,  then  add  one  cup  lamb 
stock.  Season  highly  with  salt,  paprika,  and  curry  powder. 
To  one-half  the  sauce,  add  two-thirds  cup  cold  roast  lamb 
cut  in  one-third  inch  cubes.  Add  stock  to  remaining  sauce, 
and  pour  around  rissoles  just  before  sending  to  table. 

Quail  Pies 

6  quails  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

6  slices  carrot  ^  teaspoon  peppercorns 

Stalk  of  celery  Flour 

2  slices  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Sprig  of  parsley  Sherry  wine 

Remove  breasts  and  legs  from  birds,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in  butter.  To  but- 
ter in  pan  add  vegetables  and  peppercorns,  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Separate  backs  of  birds  in  pieces,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  vegetables,  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Drain 
stock  from  vegetables,  and  thicken  with  flour  diluted  with 
enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily.     Season  with  salt,  pepper, 


382  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  wiue.  If  not  rich  enough,  add  more  butter.  Allow  one 
bird  to  each  individual  dish,  sauce  to  make  sufficiently  moist, 
and  cover  with  plain  or  puff  paste,  in  which  make  two  inci- 
sions, through  which  the  legs  of  the  bird  should  extend. 

Aspic  Jelly 

Carrot  1  ^  .  ,  ,  ,  ^  cup  white  or  Madeira  wine 

Onion    1 2  tablespoons  each,       (  i,^^  gelatine 

Celery  J        ^^^  ^^  ^^^^^  1  quart  White  Stock  for 
2  sprigs  parsley  vegetables  and  white 

2  sprigs  thyme  meat,  or 

1  sprig  savory  1  quart  Brown  Stock  for 

2  cloves  dark  meat 
1^  teaspoon  peppercorns  Juice  1  lemon 

1  bay  leaf  Whites  3  eggs 

Aspic  jelly  is  always  made  with  meat  stock,  and  is  princi- 
pally used  in  elaborate  entrees  where  fish,  chicken,  game,  or 
vegetables  are  to  be  served  moulded  in  jelly.  In  making 
Aspic  Jelly,  use  as  much  liquid  as  the  pan  which  is  to  con- 
tain moulded  dish  will  hold. 

Put  vegetables,  seasonings,  and  wine  in  a  saucepan ; 
cook  eight  minutes,  and  strain,  reserving  liquid.  Add  gela- 
tine to  stock,  then  add  lemon  juice  and  strained  liquid. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  and  whites  of  eggs  slightly 
beaten.  Add  slowly  to  remaining  mixture,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  boiling-point  is  reached.  Place  on  back  of 
range  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
double  cheese-cloth  placed  over  a  fine  wire  strainer,  or 
through  a  jelly  bag. 

Tomatoes  in   Aspic 

Peel  six  small  firm  tomatoes,  and  remove  pulp,  having 
opening  in  tops  as  small  as  possible.  Sprinkle  insides  with 
salt,  invert,  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Fill  with  vegeta- 
ble or  chicken  salad.  Cover  tops  with  Mayonnaise  to  which 
has  been  added  a.  small  quantity  of  dissolved  gelatine,  and 
garnish  with  capers  and  sliced  pickles.  Place  a  pan  in  ice- 
water,  cover  bottom  with  aspic  jelly  mixture,  and  let  stand 


ENTREES  383 

until  jelly  is  firm.  Arrange  tomatoes  on  jelly  garnished  side 
down.  Add  more  aspic  jelly  mixture,  let  stand  until  firm, 
and  so  continue  until  all  is  used.  Chill  thoroughly,  turn  on 
a  serving  dish,  and  garnish  around  base  with  parsley. 

Stufifed  Olives  in  Aspic 

Stone  olives,  using  an  olive  stoner,  and  fill  cavities  thus 
made  with  green  butter.  Place  small  Dario  moulds  in  pan  of 
ice-water,  and  pour  in  aspic  jelly  mixture  (see  p.  382)  one' 
fourth  inch  deep.  When  firm  put  an  olive  in  each  mould 
(keeping  olives  in  place  by  means  of  small  wooden  skewers) 
and  add  aspic  by  spoonfuls  until  moulds  are  filled.  Chill 
thoroughly,  remove  to  circular  slices  of  liver  sausage,  garnish 
wath  green  butter  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  yolks 
of  '•  hard-boiled  "  eggs  forced  through  a  strainer,  and  red  pep- 
pers cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Green  Butter.  Mix  yolk  one  "  hard-boiled  "  egg,  two  table- 
spoons butter,  one  sprig  parsley,  one  sprig  tarragon,  one 
small  shallot,  one-half  teaspoon  anchovy  paste,  one  teaspoon 
capers,  and  one  teaspoon  chopped  gherkins,  and  pound  in  a 
mortar ;  then  rub  through  a  very  fine  sieve.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  few  drops  vinegar. 

Tongue  in  Aspic 

Cook  a  tongue  according  to  directions  on  page  210.  After 
removing  skin  and  roots,  run  a  skewer  through  tip  of  tongue 
and  fleshy  part,  thus  keeping  tongue  in  shape.  When  cool, 
remove  skewer.  Put  a  round  pan  in  ice-water,  cover  bottom 
with  brown  aspic,  and  when  firm  decorate  with  cooked  car- 
rot, turnip,  beet  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  parsley.  Cover 
with  aspic  jelly  mixture,  adding  it  by  spoonfuls  so  as  not  to 
disarrange  vegetables.  When  this  layer  of  mixture  is  firm, 
put  in  tongue,  adding  gradually  remaining  mixture  as  in  To- 
matoes in  Aspic. 

Birds  in  Aspic 

Clean,  bone,  stuff,  and  truss  a  bird,  then  steam  over  body 
bones  or  roastc     If  roasted,  do  not  dredge  with  flour.     Put 


384  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

a  pan  in  ice-water,  cover  bottom  with  aspic  jelly  mixture, 
and  when  firm  garnish  with  truffles  and  egg  custard  thinly 
sliced  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  The  smaller  the  shapes 
the  more  elaborate  may  be  the  designs.  When  garnishing 
with  small  shapes,  pieces  are  so  difficult  to  handle  that 
they  should  be  taken  on  the  pointed  end  of  a  larding-needle, 
and  placed  as  desired  on  jelly.  Add  aspic  mixture  by 
spoonfuls,  that  designs  may  not  be  disturbed.  When  mix- 
ture is  added,  and  firm  to  the  depth  of  three-fourths  inch, 
place  in  the  bird,  breast  down.  If  sides  of  mould  are  to 
be  decorated,  dip  pieces  in  jelly  and  they  will  cling  to  pan. 
Add  remaining  mixture  gradually  as  in  Tomatoes  in  Aspic. 
Small  birds,  chicken,  capon,  or  turkey,  may  be  put  in 
aspic. 

Egg  Custard  for  Decorating 

Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  two  eggs.  Beat  yolks 
slightly,  add  two  tablespoons  milk  and  few  grains  salt. 
Strain  into  a  buttered  cup,  put  on  a  saucepan,  surround 
with  boiling  water  to  one-half  depth  of  cup,  cover,  put  on 
back  of  range,  and  steam  until  custard  is  firm.  Beat 
whites  slightly,  add  few  grains  salt,  and  cook  as  yolks. 
Cool,  turn  from  cups,  cut  in  thin  slices,  then  in  desired 
shapes. 

Stuffing  for  Chicken  in  Aspic 

Chop  finely  breast  and  meat  from  second  joints  of  an  un- 
cooked chicken,  or  one  pound  of  uncooked  lean  veal.  Add 
one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  hot  stock  to  moisten,  salt, 
pepper,  celery  salt,  cayenne,  lemon  juice,  and  one  egg 
slightly  beaten.  In  stuffing  boned  chicken,  stuff  body,  legs, 
and  wings,  being  careful  that  too  much  stuffing  is  not  used, 
as  an  allowance  must  be  made  for  the  swelling  of  cracker 
crumbs. 

Spring  Mousse 

Chop  three-fourths  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  and 
pound  in  a  mortar.  Add  gradually  one-half  cup  heavy 
cream,  and  force  mixture  through  puree  strainer.     Add 


entr:^es  t  385 

one-half  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  dissolved  in  three 
tablespoons  White  Stock.  Add  another  one-half  cup  heavy 
cream  and  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  horseradish 
powder.  Pour  jelly  into  small  moulds  one-third  inch  deep, 
using  lemon  Sauterne,  or  aspic.  When  firm,  fill  moulds 
with  veal  mixture  and  set  aside  to  chill.  Remove  from 
moulds  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Chaud-froid  of  Eggs 

Cut  six  "hard-boiled"  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise  and 
remove  yolks.  Mix  one-third  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  finely 
chopped,  two  tablespoons  cold  cooked  ham  finely  chopped, 
two  tablespoons  chopped  raw  mushroom  caps,  one-half  table- 
spoon choppod  truffles,  and  yolks  of  four  of  the  eggs  rubbed 
through  a  sieve.  Moisten  with  Spanish  Sauce  and  refill 
whites  with  mixture.  Mask  eggs  with  Spanish  Sauce,  gar- 
nish with  truffles,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  brush  over  with 
aspic.     Arrange  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  cress. 

Spanish  Sauce.  Cook  one  and  one-half  cups  canned  to- 
matoes fifteen  minutes  with  one-fourth  onion,  sprig  of  pars- 
ley, bit  of  bay  leaf,  six  cloves,  one-third  teaspoon  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne; 
then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Beat  yolks  three  eggs  slightly, 
and  add,  gradually,  three  tablespoons  olive  oil.  Combine 
mixtures  and  cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
one  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in  three-fourths, 
tablespoon  each  tarragon  vinegar  and  cold  water.  Strain, 
and  cool. 

Jellied  Vegetables 

Soak  one  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  in  one-fourth  cup 
cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  one  cup  boiling  water ;  then  add 
one-fourth  cup,  each,  sugar  and  vinegar,  two  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Strain,  cool,  and  when 
beginning  to  stiffen,  add  one  cup  celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 
one-half  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage,  and  one  and  one-half 
canned  pimentoes  cut  in  small  pieces.  Turn  into  a  mould 
and  chill.  Remove  from  mould  and  arrange  around  jelly  thin 
slices  of  cold  cooked  meat  overlapping  one  another.  Garnisb 
'vrith  celery  tips. 


886  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Mayonnaise  of  Mackerel 
Clean  two  medium-sized  mackerel,  put  in  baking-dish  with 
one-third  cup  each  water,  cider  vinegar,  and  tarragon  vine- 
gar, twelve  cloves,  one  teaspoon  each  peppercorns  and  salt, 
and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Cover  with  buttered  paper  and  cook 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Arrange  on  serving  dish,  remove  skin, 
cool,  and  mask  with  Mayonnaise  thickened  with  gelatine. 
Let  stand  until  thoroughly  chilled,  and  garnish  with  sliced 
cucumbers,  lemon  baskets  filled  with  Mayonnaise  sprinkled 
with  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Chaud-froid  of  Chicken 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  granulated  gel- 

3  tablespoons  flour  atine  dissolved  in  one 

1  cup  White  Stock  tablespoon  hot  water 
Yolk  one  egg                                Aspic  jelly 

2  tablespoons  cream  Truffles 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  6  pieces  cooked  chicken, 

Salt  and  pepper  shaped  in  form  of  cutlets 

Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  stock;  add  egg  yolk 
diluted  with  cream,  lemon  juice,  salt  aud  pepper;  then  add 
dissolved  gelatine.  Dip  chicken  in  sauce  which  has  been 
allowed  to  cool.  When  chicken  has  cooled,  garnish  upper 
side  with  truflfles  cut  in  shapes.  Brush  over  with  aspic  jelly 
mixture,  and  chill.  Arrange  a  bed  of  lettuce ;  in  centre  pile 
►cold  cooked  asparagus  tips  or  celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 
marinated  with  French  Dressing,  and  place  chicken  at  base 
of  salad. 

Moulded   Salmon,  Cucumber  Sauce 

1  can  salmon  Tolks  2  eggs 

3^  tablespoon  salt  1}^  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1)4  tablespoons  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

3^  tablespoon  flour  )^  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  mustard  ^  tablespoon  granulated 
Few  grains  cayenne  gelatine 

2  tablespoons  cold  water 

Remove  salmon  from  can,  rinse  thoroughly  with  hot  water, 
and  separate  in  flakes.     Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks,, 

ImU^t,  milk,  and  Tiaegar.    Cook  over  boiliBg  water,  stl'rniig 


Chaud-froid  of  Eggs.  —  Page  385. 


Capon  in  Aspic  garnished  with  cooked  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs 

CUT  IN  fancy  shapes,  PISTACHIO  NUTS,  AND  TRUFFLES. Page  384' 


Haevard  Pudding  served  with  Crushed  Berries  and  Whipped 
Cream.  —  Page  JfiO. 


^flR,  W^' 


Snowballs   garnished   with    Strawberries   and   served   with 
Crushed  Strawberries  and  Whipped  Cream.  —  Fage  40L 


ENTRIES  88T 

constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Add  gelatine  soaked  in 
cold  water.  Strain,  and  add  to  salmon.  Fill  individual 
mould,  chill,  and  serve  with 

Cucumber  Sauce  II.  Beat  one-half  cup^heavy  cream  until 
stiff,  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  pepper,  and 
gradually  two  tablespoons  vinegar ;  then  add  one  cucumber, 
pared,  chopped,  and  drained  through  cheese  cloth. 

Moulded  Chicken,  Sauterne  Jelly- 
Cover  a  four-pound  fowl  with  two  quarts  cold  water,  and 
add  four  slices  carrot,  one  onion  stuck  with  eight  cloves,  two 
stalks  celery,  bit  of  bay  leaf,  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns, 
and  one  tablespoon  salt.  Bring  quickly  to  boiling-point,  and 
let  simmer  until  meat  is  tender.  Remove  meat  from  bones, 
and  finely  chop.  Reduce  stock  to  three  fourths  cup,  cool, 
and. remove  fat.  Soak  one  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine  in 
one  teaspoon  cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  stock  which  has 
been  reheated.  Add  to  meat,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
celery  salt,  lemon  juice,  and  onion  juice.  Pack  solidly  into 
a  slightly  buttered  one-pound  baking  powder  tin,  and  chill. 
Remove  from  tin,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  arrange  around 
Sauterne  Jelly,  beaten  with  a  fork  until  light. 

When  making  Sauterne  Jelly  (see  p.  420)  to  serve  with 
meat,  use  but  three  tablespoons  sugar. 

Lenox  Chicken 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  1}^  teaspoons  sugar 
^  cup  hot  ciiicken  stock  1  teaspoon  mustard 
^  cup  heavy  cream                             ^  teaspoon  pepper 

Ij^  cups  cold  cooked  chicken,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

cut  in  dice  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

^  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  ^  cup  hot  cream 

2  tablespoons  cold  water  1}^  tablespoons  butter 
Yolks  2  eggs  Whites  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  }4  ^^P  heavy  cream 

2  cups  finely  chopped  celery 

Dissolve  one  tablespoon  gelatine  in  chicken  stock  and 
strain.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken  beat  until  frothy, 
and  add  thr.ee-fourths  cup  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff. 


388  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  chicken  dice.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  turn  into 
individual  moulds,  and  chill.  Soak  remaining  gelatine  in 
cold  water,  dissolve  by  standing  over  hot  water,  then  strain. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  and  add  salt,  sugar,  mustard, 
lemon  juice,  vinegar,  and  hot  cream.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  mixture  thickens,  add  butter  and  strained  gelatine. 
Add  mixture,  gradually,  to  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and 
when  cold,  fold  in  heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff,  and  celery. 
Remove  chicken  from  mould,  surround  with  sauce,  and  gar- 
nish with  celery  tips. 

Rum  Cakes 

Shape  Brioche  dough  in  the  form  of  large  biscuits  and  put 
into  buttered  individual  tin  moulds,  having  moulds  two-thirds 
full ;  cover,  and  let  rise  to  fill  moulds.  Bake  twenty-five 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  from  moulds  and  dip 
in  Rum  Sauce.  Arrange  on  a  dish  and  pour  remaining  sauce 
around  cakes. 

Rum  Sauce 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

^  cup  rum  or  wine 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  five  minutes ; 
then  add  rum  or  wine. 

nates 

Shape  Brioche  dough  in  sticks  similar  to  Bread  Sticks. 
Place  on  a  buttered  sheet,  cover,  and  let  rise  fifteen  min- 
utes. Brush  over  with  white  of  one  egg  slightly  beaten  and 
diluted  with  one-half  tablespoon  cold  water.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  bake  ten  minutes.  These  are  delicious 
served  with  coffee  or  chocolate. 

Baba  Cakes 

To  one  and  one-half  cups  Brioche  dough  add  one-third 
cup  each  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces,  currants,  and 
citron  thinly  sliced,  previously  soaked  In  Maraschino  for 
one  hour.  Shape,  let  rise,  and  bake  same  as  Rum  Cakes. 
Dip  in  sauce  made  same  as  Rum  Sauce,  substituting  Maras- 
chino in  place  of  rum. 


ENTREES  389 

Baba  Cakes  with  Apricots 

1%  cups  flour  K  cup  butter 

.    1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  4  eggs 

^  cup  lukewarm  water  ^  cup  sugar 
3^  teaspoon  salt 

Make  sponge  of  one-half  cup  flour  and  dissolved  yeast 
cake  ;  cover  and  let  rise.  Mix  remaining  flour  with  butter, 
two  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt.  Beat  thoroughly,  and  add,  while 
beating,  remaining  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  then  beat  until  mix- 
ture is  perfectly  smooth.  As  soon  as  sponge  has  doubled 
its  bulk,  combine  mixtures,  beat  thoroughly,  and  half  fill 
buttered  individual  tins.  Let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Eemove  from  tins,  cut  a  circular  piece  from  top  of 
each,  and  scoop  out  a  small  quantity  of  the  inside.  Fill 
centres  thus  made  with  Apricot  Marmalade,  replace  circular 
pieces,  and  serve  with  Wine  Sauce  (see  p.  409). 


390  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XXIII 
HOT   PUDDINGS 

Rice  Pudding 

4  cups  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

1^  cup  rice  K  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  y^  lemon 

Wash  rice,  mix  ingredients,  and  pour  into  buttered 
pudding-dish ;  bake  three  hours  in  very  slow  oven,  stirring 
three  times  during  first  hour  of  baking  to  prevent  rice  from 
settling. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding 

4  cups  milk  )4,  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  rice  •  j^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y^  Clip  molasses  1  tablespoon  butter 

Wash  rice,  mix  and  bake  same  as  Rice  Pudding.  At  last 
stirring,  add  butter. 

Indian  Pudding 

5  cups  scalded  milk  %  ^^P  molasses 
y^  cup  Indian  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  ginger 

Pour  milk  slowly  on  meal,  cook  in  double  boiler  twenty 
minutes,  add  molasses,  salt,  and  ginger;  pour  into  buttered 
pudding-dish  and  bake  two  hours  in  slow  oven;  serve  with 
cream.  •  If  baked  too  rapidly  it  will  not  whey.  Ginger  may 
be  omitted. 

Cerealine  Pudding 

4  cups  scalded  milk  %  cup  molasses 

2  cups  cerealine  1>^  teaspoons  salt 

1)4.  tablespoons  butter 

Pour  milk  on  cerealine,  add  remaining  ingredients,  pour 
into  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 
Serve  with  cream. 


HOT    PUDDINGS  391 

Newton  Tapioca 

5  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca  %  cup  molasses 

4  cups  scalded  milk  3  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  Indian  meal  1}^  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  milk 

Soak  tapioca  two  hours  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Pour 
scalded  milk  over  Indian  meal  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
ten  minutes.  Add  tapioca  drained  from  water,  molasses, 
butter  and  salt ;  turn  into  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  pour 
over  remaining  milk,  but  do  not  stir.  Bake  one  and  one- 
fourth  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Apple  Tapioca 

%  cup  pearl  or  i^  cup  minute  tapioca     %  teaspoon  salt 
Cold  water  7  sour  apples 

2>^  cups  boiling  water  %  cup  sugar 

Soak  tapioca  one  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover,  drain,  add 
boiling  water  and  salt ;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  transpar- 
ent. Core  and  pare  apples,  arrange  in  buttered  pudding- 
dish,  fill  cavities  with  sugar,  pour  over  tapioca,  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  apples  are  soft.  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream  or  Cream  Sauce  I.  Minute  Tapioca  requires  no 
soaking. 

Tapioca  Custard  Pudding 
4  cups  scalded  milk  i^  cup  sugar 

^  cup  pearl  or  i^  cup  minute  taj^ioca     1  teaspoon  salt 
3  eggs  1  tablespoon  butter 

Soak  tapioca  one  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover,  drain,  add 
to  milk,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  thirty  minutes  ;  beat  eggs 
slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt,  pour  on  gradually  hot  mixture, 
turn  into  buttered  pudding-dish,  add  butter,  bake  thirty  min- 
utes in  slow  oven. 

Peach  Tapioca 

1  can  peaches  Boiling  water 

J^  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  tapioca  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Drain  peaches,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  let  stand 
one  hour ;  soak  tapioca  one  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover ;  to 


392  BOSTOH  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

peach  syrup  add  enough  boiliog  water  to  make  three  cups  -, 
heat  to  boiling-point,  add  tapioca  drained  from  cold  water, 
sugar,  and  salt ;  then  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  transpar- 
ent. Line  a  mould  or  pudding-dish  with  peaches  cut  in  quar- 
ters, fill  with  tapioca,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty 
minutes ;  cool  slightly,  turn  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  Cream 
Sauce  I. 

Corn  Pudding 

2  cups  popped  corn,  finely  pounded      %  cup  brown  sugar 

3  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 
3  eggs,  slightly  beaten                            ^  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  milk,  pour  over  corn,  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Add 
remaining  ingredients,  turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  until  firm.     Serve  with  cream,  or  maple  syrup. 

Scalloped  Apples 

1  small.baker's  stale  loaf        ^  cup  sugar 

^  cup  butter  •  3^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  quart  sliced  apples  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  }4  lemon 

Cut  loaf  in  halves,  remove  soft  part,  and  crumb  by  rubbing 
through  a  colander;  melt  butter  and  stir  in  lightly  with 
fork;  cover  bottom  of  buttered  pudding-dish  with  crumbs 
and  spread  over  one-half  the  apples,  sprinkle  with  one-half 
sugar,  nutmeg,  lemon  juice,  and  rind  mixed  together ;  repeat 
cover  with  remaining  crumbs,  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Cover  at  first  to  prevent  crumbs  browning  too 
rapidly.     Sen-e  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Bread  Pudding     * 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

1  quart  scalded  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

^  cup  melted  butter  )^  teaspoon  spice 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  set  aside  until  cool ;  add  sugar, 
butter,  eggs  slightly  beaten,  salt,  and  flavoring  ;  bake  one 
hour  in  buttered  pudding-dish  in  slow  oven ;  serve  with 
Vanilla  Sauce.  In  preparing  bread  crumbs  for  puddings 
avoid  using  outside  crusts.  With  a  coarse  grater  there  need 
be  but  little  waste. 


HOT    PUDDINGS  893 

Cracker  Custard  Pudding 

Make   same    as   Bread    Pudding,    using    two-thirds    cup 
cracker  crumbs  in  place  of  bread  crumbs ;  after  baking,  cover , 
with  meringue  made  of   whites  two   eggs,   one-fourth  cup 
powdered  sugar,  and  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice  j  return  to 
oven  to  cook  meringue. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding 

1  small  baker's  stale  loaf  ^  cup  sugar 
Butter  1^  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  1  quart  milk 

Remove  end  crusts  from  bread,  cut  loaf  in  one-half  inch 
slices,  spread  each  slice  generously  with  butter;  arrange 
in  buttered  pudding-dish,  buttered  side  down.  Beat  eggs 
slightly,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  milk;  strain,  and  pour  over 
bread;  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Bake  one  hour  in  slow 
oven,  covering  the  first  half-hour  of  baking.  The  top  of 
pudding  should  be  well  browned.  Serve  with  Hard  or 
Creamy  Sauce.  Three-fourths  cup  raisins,  parboiled  in 
boiling  water  to  cover  and  seeded,  may  be  sprinkled 
between  layers  of  bread. 

Bread  and  Butter  Apple  Pudding 

Cover  bottom  of  a  shallow  baking-dish  with  apple  sauce. 
Cut  stale  bread  in  one- third  inch  slices,  spread  with  softened 
butter,  remove  crusts,  and  cut  in  triangular-shaped  pieces; 
then  arrange  closely  together  over  apple.  Sprinkle  gener- 
ously with  sugar,  to  which  is  added  a  few  drops  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  with  cream. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  %  cup  sugar 

4  cups  scalded  milk  2  eggs 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate    y^  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  bread  in  milk  thirty  minutes ;  melt  chocolate  in  sauce- 
pan placed  over  hot  water,  add  one-half  sugar  and  enough 
milk  taken  from  bread  and  milk  to  make  of  consistency  to 
pour;  add  to  mixture  with  remaining  sugar,  salt,  vanilla, 


394  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  eggs  slightly- "bseaten ;  turn  into  buttered  pudding-dish 
and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  Hard  or 
Cream  Sauce  I. 

Mock  Indian  Pudding 

^  small  loaf  baker's  3)^  cups  milk 

entire-wheat  bread  y^  cup  molasses 

Butter 

Remove  crusts  from  bread  and  cut  into  five  slices  of  uni- 
form thickness.  Spread  generously  with  butter,  arrange  in 
baking-dish,  pour  over  three  cups  of  milk  and  molasses. 
Bake  from  two  to  three  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven,  stirring 
three  times  during  the  first  hour  of  baking,  then  add  remain- 
ing milk.     Serve  with  cream  or  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Bangor  Pudding 

^K  c"Ps  cracker  crumbs  %  cup  molasses 

Boiling  water  1  ^^^ 

2  cups  milk  1  cup  raisins 

Moisten  cracker  crumbs  with  boiling  water,  and  let  stand 
until  cool.  Add  milk,  molasses,  egg  slightly  beaten,  and 
raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding mould,  and  steam  eight  hours.  Let  stand  in  mould  to 
cool.     Serve  cold  with  Cream  Sauce  II. 

Steamed  Lemon  Pudding 

8  small  slices  stale  bread  3  tablespoons  su|;^ar 

Lemon  mixture  2  eggs 

1  cup  milk  Grated  rind  1  lemon 

y^  teaspoon  salt 

Spread  bread  with  lemon  mixture,  and  arrange  in  buttered 
pudding  mould.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  salt,  and 
milk ;  strain,  add  lemon  rind,  and  pour  mixture  over  bread. 
Cover,  set  in  pan  of. hot  water,  and  bake  one  hour. 

Lemon  Mixture.  Cook  three  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  one  lemon,  and  one-fourth  cup  butter  two  min- 
utes. Add  one  cup  sugar  and  three  eggs  slightly  beaten; 
cook  ontll  mixture  thickens,  cool,  and  add  one  tablespoon 
brandy. 


HOT    PUDDINGS 

Cottage  Pudding 
^  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  2)^  cups  flour 

1  egg  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  egg  well 
beaten;  mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt;  add 
alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture;  turn  into  buttered 
cake-pan;  bake  thirty-five  minutes.  Serve  with  Vanilla 
or  Hard  Sauce. 

Strawberry  Cottage  Pudding 

y^  cup  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1^  cups  flour 

1  Qgg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  same  as  Cottage  Pudding,  and  bake  twenty-five 
minutes  in  shallow  pan;  cut  in  squares  and  serve  with 
strawberries  (sprinkled  with  sugar  and  slightly  mashed) 
and  Cream  Sauce  I.  Sliced  peaches  may  be  used  in  place 
of  strawberries. 

Orange  Pufifa 

^  cup  butter  %  cup  miJk 

1  cup  sugar  \%  cups  flour 

2  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  same  as  Cottage  Pudding,  and  bake  in  buttered 
individual  tins.     Serve  with  Orange  Sauce. 

Chocolate  Pudding 

}^  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

Yolks  2  eggs  \%  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

%  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

13^  cups  flour  >^  tea-spoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  one~balf  the  sugar  gradually. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon- colored,  and  add, 
gradually,  remaining  sugar.  Combine  mixtures,  and  add 
milk  alternately  with  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder  and  salt;  then  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff, 
mdted  chocolate,  and  vanilla.     Bake  in  an  angel-cake  p&n, 


896  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

remove  from  pan,  cool,  fill  the  centre  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored,  and  pour  around. 

Chocolate  Sauce.  Boil  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
water,  and  a  few  grains  cream-of-tartar  until  of  the  con- 
sistency of  a  thin  syrup.  Melt  one  and  one-half  squares 
chocolate  and  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  syrup.  Cool  slightly, 
and  flavor  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Custard  Souffle 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  scalded  milk 

^  cup  flour  4  eggs 

yi  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  gradually  hot  milk.  Bring  to 
boiling-point  and  pour  on  to  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick 
and  lemon-colored,  and  mixed  with  sugar  and  salt ;  cool,  and 
cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Turn 
into  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  from  thirty  to  thirty-five 
minutes  in  slow  oven ;  take  from  oven  and  serv^e  at  once,  — 
if  not  served  immediately  it  is  sure  to  fall ;  serve  with 
Creamy  or  Foamy  Sauce. 

Apricot  Soufa§ 

Drain  and  reserve  syrup  from  one  can  apricots  and  cut 
fruit  into  quarters,  then  put  closely  together  on  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking-dish.  Pour  over  Custard  Souflfle  mixture. 
Bake  from  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Serve  with  apricot  sj^rup  and  whipped  cream  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  vanilla  ice  cream.  Canned 
peaches  may  be  used  in  place  of  apricots. 

Lemon  SoufH^ 

Yolks  4  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  and  juice  1  lemon  Whites  4  eggs 

Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add  sugar 
gradually  and  continue  beating,  then  add  lemon  rind  and 
juice.  Cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  dry; 
turn  into  buttered  pudding-dish,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  and 
bake  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes.  Serve  with  or  without 
sauce. 


HOT    PUDDINGS  n  397 


Chocolate  SouSl^ 

2  tablespoons  butter  }4  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

^  cup  milk  3  eggs 

1}^  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  }^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  milk ;  cook  until  boiling-point  is  reached. 
Melt  chocolate  in  a  small  saucepan  placed  over  hot  water, 
add  sugar  and  water,  and  stir  until  smooth.  Combine  mix- 
tures, and  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten ;  cool.  Fold  in 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  add  vanilla.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty- 
five  minutes.     Serve  with  Cream  Sauce  I. 

Mocha  Souffle 

3  tablespoons  butter  }4  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  bread  flour  >^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  boiled  coffee  (Mocha)  4  eggs 

}^  cup  cream  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Make  and  bake  same  as  Chocolate  Souffle.  Serve  with 
Mocha  Sauce.  Mix  yolks  two  eggs,  one- fourth  cup 
sugar,  and  a  few  grains  salt ;  then  add  gradually  one-half 
cup  Mocha  coffee  infusion.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mix- 
ture thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Strain,  cool,  and  fold  in 
one  cup  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Souffle 

^  cup  fruit  pulp,  peach,  Whites  3  eggs 

apricot,  or  quince  Sugar 

Few  grains  salt 

Rub  fruit  through  sieve ;  if  canned  fruit  is  used,  first  drain 
from  syrup.  Heat,  and  sweeten  if  needed  ;  beat  whites  of 
eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  hot  fruit  pulp,  and  salt,  and 
continue  beating ;  turn  into  buttered  and  sugared  individual 
moulds,  having  them  three-fourths  full ;  set  moulds  in  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm,  which  may 
be  determined  by  pressing  with  finger;  serve  with  Sabyon 
Sauce. 


398  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Spanish  Souffld 

^  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  sugar 

y^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  3  eggs 

1  cup  milk  )^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter,  add  crumbs,  cook  until  slightly  browned,  stir- 
ring often ;  add  milk  and  sugar,  cook  twenty  minutes  in 
double  boiler ;  remove  from  fire,  add  unbeaten  yolks  of  eggs, 
then  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
flavor.     Bake  same  as  Fruit  Souffle. 

Chestnut  Souffld 
\^  cup  sugar  1  cup  chestnut  puree 

2  tablespoons  flour  3^  cup  milk 

Whites  3  eggs 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  chestnuts  and  milk  gradually; 
cook  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  beat  whites  of  eggs 
until  stiff,  and  cut  and  fold  into  mixture.  Bake  same  as 
Fruit  Souffle ;  serve  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Chocolate  Rice  Meringue 

2  cups  milk  1  square  melted  chocolate 

^  cup  rice  j^  teaspoon  vanilla 

y^  teaspoon  salt  %.  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  tablespoon  butter  Whites  two  eggs 

y^  cup  sugar  %  cup  heavy  cream 

Scald  milk,  add  rice  and  salt,  and  cook  until  rice  is  soft. 
Add  butter,  sugar,  chocolate,  vanilla,  and  raisins.  Cut  and 
fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  cream, 
beaten  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  six  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and 
one-half  teaspoon  vanilla ;  then  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder  \  cup  milk 

}4.  teaspoon  salt  4  apples  cut  in  eighths 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  ;  work  in  butter  with  tips  of 
fingers,  add  milk  gradually,  mixing  with  a  knife ;  toss  on 


HOT    PUDDINGS  399 

floured  board,  pat  and  roll  out,  place  apples  on  middle  of 
dough,  and  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  sugar  mixed  with 
one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  nutmeg;  bring  dough 
around  apples  and  carefully  lift  into  buttered  mould  or  five- 
pound  lard  pail ;  or  apples  may  be  sprinkled  over  dough,  and 
dough  rolled  like  a  jelly  roll ;  cover  closely,  and  steam  one 
hour  and  twenty  minutes;  serve  with  Vanilla  or  Cold  Sauce. 
Twice  the  number  of  apples  may  be  sprinkled  with  sugar 
and  cooked  until  soft  in  granite  kettle  placed  on  top  of 
range,  covered  with  dough,  rolled  size  to  fit  in  kettle,  then 
kettle  covered  tightly,  and  dough  steamed  fifteen  minutes. 
When  turned  on  dish  for  serving,  apples  will  be  on  top. 

Steamed  Blueberry  Pudding 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  butter  same  as 
for  Steamed  Apple  Pudding.  Add  one  cup  each  of  milk, 
and  blueberries  rolled  in  flour ;  turn  into  buttered  mould 
and  steam  one  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with  Creamy 
Sauce. 

Steamed  Cranberry  Pudding 

5^  cup  butter  3 >^  cups  flour 

i  cup  sugar  1)^  tablespoons  baking  powder 

3  eggs  ,  )4,  cup  milk 

\)4,  cups  cranberries 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  eggs  well 
beaten.  Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add 
alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture,  stir  in  berries,  turn  into 
buttered  mould,  cover,  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve  with 
thin  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  autmeg. 

Ginger  Pudding 

y^  cup  butter  3>^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  sugar  ^i  teaspoon  salt 

1  %^g  2  teaspoons  ginger 

2>^  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

Cream  the  butter.,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  egg  well 
beaten ;  mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients ;  add  alternately  with 
milk  to  first  mixture.  Turn  into  buttered  mould,  cover,  and 
steam  two  hours  ;  serve  with  Vanilla  Sauce. 


400  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Harvard  Pudding 

%  cup  butter  3)^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

>-2  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2}4  cups  flour  1  egg 

1  cup  milk 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  butter  with  tips 
of  fingers  ;  beat  egg,  add  milk,  and  combine  mixtures  ;  turn 
into  buttered  mould,  cover,  and  steam  two  hours ;  serve  with 
warm  Apple  Sauce  and  Hard  Sauce. 

Apple  Sauce.  Pick  over  and  wash  dried  apples,  soak 
over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover ;  cook  until  soft ;  sweeten, 
and  flavor  with  lemon  juice. 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding 
3  tablespoons  butter  2}-^  cups  flour 

^  cup  sugar  4)^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  2}4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  cup  milk  1^  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  egg  well 
beaten.  Mix  and  sift  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt, 
and  add  alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture,  then  add 
chocolate,  melted.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould.  Cover, 
and  steam  two  hours.     Serve  with 

Cream  Sauce 

^  cup  butter  }4  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  )^  cup  heavy  cream 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  vanilla,  and  cream 
beaten  until  stiff. 

Swiss  Pudding 

1^  cup  butter  Grated  rind  one  lemon 

J^  cup  flour  5  eggs 

2  cups  milk  )^  cup  powdered  sugar 
Cream  the  butter,  add  flour  gradually ;    scald  milk  with 

lemon  rind,  add  to  first  mixture,  and  cook  five  minutes  in 
double  boiler.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon- 
colored,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  add  to  cooked  mixture ; 
cool,  and  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.     Turn 


HOT    PUDDINGS  401 

into  buttered  mould,  cover,  and  steam  one  and  one-fourth 
hours;  while  steaming,  be  sure  water  surrounds  mould  to 
half  its  depth,  and  never  reaches  a  lower  temperature  than 
the  boiling-point. 

Snowballs 

%  cup  butter  23^  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  Z%,  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk  Whites  4  eggs 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  milk,  and  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder;  then  add  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Steam  thirty-five  minutes  in  buttered 
cups;  serve  with, preserved  fruit,  quince  marmalade,  or 
strawberry  sauce. 

Grraham  Pudding 

^  cup  butter  \%  cups  Graham  flour 

y^  cup  molasses  ^  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  milk  -1  teaspoon  salt 

1  ^gg  1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut 

in  pieces 

Melt  butter,  add  molasses,  milk,  egg  well  beaten,  dry 
ingredients  mixed  and  sifted,  and  raisins;  turn  into  but- 
tered mould,  cover,  and  steam  two  and  one-half  hours. 
Serve  with  Wine  Sauce.  Dates  or  figs  cut  in  small  pieces 
may  be  used  in  place  of  raisins. 

St.   James  Pudding 

3  tablespoons  butter  Salt        \ 

%  cup  molasses  Clove       I 

%  cup  milk  Allspice  j  ^  teaspoon  each 

\yi  cups  flour  Nutmeg  J 

}^  teaspoon  soda  %  lb-  dates,  stoned  and  cut 

in  pieces 

Mix  and  steam  same  as  Graham  Pudding.  Serve  with 
Wine  Sauce.  A  simple,  delicious  pudding  without  egg. 
Puddings  may  be  steamed  in  buttered  one-pound  baking- 
powder  boxes,  providing  they  do  not  leak,  and  are  attrac- 
tive in  shape  and  easy  to  serve. 

26 


402  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Suet  Pudding 

1  cup  finely  chopped  suet  1)^  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  molasses  Ginger       1 

1  cup  milk  Clove  l^  teaspoon  each 

3  cups  flour  Nutmeg     I 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  molasses  and  milk  to 
suet;  combine  mixtures.  Turn  into  buttered  mould,  cover, 
and  steam  three  hours  ;  serve  with  Sterling  Sauce.  Raisins 
and  currants  may  be  added. 

Thanksgiving  Pudding  I 

4  cups  scalded  milk  i^  Cup  melted  butter 
1%  cups  rolled  crackers                         ^  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs  13^  cups  raisins 

Pour  milk  over  crackers  and  let  stand  until  cool;  add 
sugar,  eggs  slightly  beaten,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  butter;  par- 
boil raisins  until  soft,  by  cooking  in  boiling  water  to  cover ; 
seed,  and  add  to  mixture ;  turn  into  buttered  pudding-dish 
and  bake  slowly  two  and  one-half  hours,  stirring  after  first 
half -hour  to  prevent  raisins  from  settling  ;  serve  with  Brandy 
Sauce. 

Thanksgiving  Pudding  II 

}4  cup  suet  }4  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

^  lb.  figs,  finely  chopped  )^  cup  English  walnut  meats 

2}4  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  }4  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut 

^  cup  milk  in  pieces 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt  4  eggs 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Chop  suet  and  work  with  the  hand  until  creamy,  then  add 
figs.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  add  eggs  well  beaten, 
sugar,  salt,  and  spices.  Combine  mixtures,  add  nut  meats 
and  raisins  dredged  with  flour.  Sprinkle  over  baking 
powder  and  beat  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould, 
steam  three  hours,  and  serve  with  Yellow  Sauce  II  (see 
p.  407),  flavored  with  brandy. 


HOT    PUDDINGS  408 

Hunters*  Pudding 

1  cup  finely  chopped  suet  Clove        \ 

1  cup  molasses  Mace        l>^  teaspoon  each 

1  cup  milk  Allspice  J 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  soda  IH  cups  raisins 

1}4  teaspoons  salt  2  tablespoons  flour 

Mix  same  as  Suet  Pudding.  Stone,  cut,  and  flour  raisins, 
and  add  to  mixture.     Then  steam. 

French  Fruit  Pudding 

1  cup  finely  chopped  suet  }4  teaspoon  clove 

1  cup  molasses  X  teaspoon  salt 

]  cup  sour  milk  1>^  cups  raisins,  seeded 

IX  teaspoons  soda  and  chopped 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  .  %  cup  currants 

^H  c^PS  flour 

Mrs.  Carrie  M.  Dearborn 

Add  molasses  and  sour  milk  to  suet ;  add  two  cups  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  soda,  salt,  and  spices ;  add  fruit 
mixed  with  remaining  flour.  Turn  into  buttered  mould, 
cover,  and  steam  four  hours.     Serve  with  Sterling  Sauce. 

Fig  Pudding  I  % 

3  oz.  beef  suet  %  cup  milk 

1^  lb.  figs,  finely  chopped  2  eggs 

2K  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  1  cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Chop  suet,  and  work  with  the  hands  until  creamy,  then 
add  figs.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  add  eggs  well  beaten, 
sugar,  and  salt.  Combine  mixtures,  turn  into  a  buttered 
mould,  steam  three  hours.     Serve  with  Yellow  Sauce  I  or  II. 

Fig  Pudding  II 

^  lb.  suet  1^  lb.  brown  sugar 

}4  lb.  figs  (finely  chopped)  ^  lb.  bread  crumbs 

1  large  sour  apple  (cored,  ^  cup  milk 

pared,  and  chopped)  2  eggs 
3  oz.  flour 

Cream  the  suet,  and  add  figs,  apple,  and  sugar.  Pour 
milk  over  bread  crumbs,  and  add  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten; 


404  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

combine  mixtures,  add  flour  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff.  Turn  into  buttered  pudding  mould,  and  steam  four 
hours.     Serve  with  Lemon  Sauce  III. 

English  Plum  Pudding  I 

%  lb.  stale  bread  crumbs  2  oz.  finely  cut  citron 

1  cup  scalded  milk  %  lb.  suet 

>^  lb.  sugar  i^  cup  wine  and  brandy  mixed 

4  eggs  y^  grated  nutmeg 

y^  lb.  raisins,  seeded,  cut  \  teaspoon  cinnamon 

in  pieces,  and  floured  )/^  teaspoon  clove 

>^  lb.  currants  y^  teaspoon  mace 

3^  lb.  finely  chopped  figs  1>^  teaspoons  salt 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  let  stand  until  cool,  add 
sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  raisins,  currants,  figs,  and 
citron;  chop  suet,  and  cream  by  using  the  hand;  combine 
mixtures,  then  add  wine,  brandy,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  clove, 
mace,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  buttered 
mould,  cover,  and  steam  six  hours. 

English  Plum  Pudding  II 

6  ozs.  flour  1  cup  molasses 

6  ozs.  stale  bread  crumbs  3  ozs.  candied  orange  peel, 

%_  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and  finely  cut 

cut  in  pieces  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

^  lb.  currants  1  teaspoon  mace 

^  lb.  suet,  finely  chopped  6  eggs,  well  beaten 

10  ozs.  sugar  2  teaspoons  salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  turn  into  a  thickly  floured 
square  of  unbleached  cotton  cloth.  Tie  securely,  leaving 
some  space  to  allow  the  pudding  to  swell,  and  plunge  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water.  Cook  five  hours,  allowing  pudding 
to  be  immersed  in  water  during  the  entire  cooking.  Serve 
with  Hard  and  Liquid  Sauce. 

Hard  Sauce.  Cream  one-third  cup  butter;  add  grad- 
ually one  cup  brown  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  brandy, 
drop  by  drop.  Force  through  a  pastry  bag  with  rose  tube» 
and  garnish  with  green  leaves  and  candied  cherries. 

Liquid  Sauc^.     Mix  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  table" 


HOT    PUDDINGS  406 

spoon  corn-starch,  and  a  few  grains  salt.  Add  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup  boiling  water,  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  one  tablespoon  lemon 
juice  and  two  tablespoons  brandy ;  then  color  with  fruit 
red. 


406  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 


CHAPTER   XXIV 
PUDDING   SAUCES 

Lemon  Sauce  I 

%  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  butter 

^  cup  water  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  five  minutes; 
remove  from  fire ;   add  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

Lemon  Sauce  II 

}4  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  boiling  water  \}4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  corn-starch  or  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

1^  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  corn-starch,  add  water  gradually,  stirring 
constantly ;  boil  five  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  add  butter, 
lemon  juice,  and  nutmeg. 

Lemon  Sauce  III 

%  cup  butter  3^  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Yolks  3  eggs  Few  gratings  lemon  rind 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  yolks  of  eggs, 
slightly  beaten  ;  then  add  water,  and  cook  over  boiling  water 
until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  range,  add  lemon 
juice  and  rind.     Serve  with  Apple  Pudding  or  Popovers. 

Vanilla  Sauce 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Sauce  II,  using  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
in  place  of  lemon  juice  and  nutmeg. 


PUDDING    SAUCES  407 

Molasses  Sauce 

i  cup  molasses  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or 

13^  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Boil  molasses  and  butter  five  minutes ;  remove  from  fire 
and  add  lemon  juice. 

Cream  Sauce  I 

^  cup  thick  cream  )^  cup  powdered  sugar 

1^  cup  milk  j^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  cream  and  milk,   beat  until  stiff,  using  egg-beater; 
add  sugar  and  vanilla. 

Cream  Sauce  II 
1  egg  }4  cup  thick  cream 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1^  cup  milk 


^  teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  white  of  egg  until  stifif ;  add  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten, 
and  sugar  gradually;  dilute  cream  with  milk,  beat  until 
stiff,  combine  mixtures,  and  flavor. 

Yellow  Sauce  I 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

1  cup  sugar  >2  teaspoon  vanilla  and 

1  teaspoon  brandy 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light,  add  sugar  gradually  and 
continue  beating ;    then  flavor. 

Yellow  Sauce  II 
2  eggs  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

3  tablespoons  wine 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick,  add  one-half  the  sugar  grad- 
ually ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  remaining 
sugar ;  combine  mixtures,  and  add  wine. 

Orange  Sauce 

Whites  3  eggs  Juice  and  rind  2  oranges 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  Juice  1  lemon 

Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  continue 
beating ;  add  rind  and  fruit  juices. 


408  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

%  Strawberry  Sauce 

}{  cup  butter  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

^  cup  strawberries  White  1  egg 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  strawberries.     Beat  until  fruit  is  mashed. 

Creamy  Sauce  I 

}^  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  milk 

^  cup  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  wine 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  milk  and  wine 
drop  by  drop.  If  liquids  are  added  too  fast  the  sauce  will 
have  a  curdled  appearance. 

Creamy  Sauce  II 

Use  same  proportions  as  given  in  recipe  I.  If  not  care- 
ful in  adding  liquids,  it  will  curdle;  but  this  will  make  no 
difference,  as  the  sauce  is  to  be  warmed  over  hot  water.  By 
careful  watching  and  constant  stirring,  the  ingredients  will 
be  perfectly  blended ;  it  should  be  creamy  in  consistency. 

Foamy  Sauce  I 

)^  cup  butter  1  egg 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  wine 

Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  sugar,  egg  well  beaten, 
and  wine ;  beat  while  heating  over  hot  water. 

Foamy  Sauce  II 

Whites  2  eggs  ^  cup  hot  milk 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  until  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  continue 
beating;  add  milk  and  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Sauce 

2  cups  milk  -  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

1)4  tablespoons  corn-starch  2  eggs 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  one  and  three-fourths  cups  milk,  add  corn-starch 
diluted   with  remaining  milk,   and  cook   eight  minutes  in 


I»U1>DING    SAUCES  409 

double  boiler;  melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  four 
tablespoons  sugar  and  hot  water,  stir  until  smooth,  then 
add  to  cooked  mixture  ;  beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add 
gradually  powdered  sugar  and  continue  beating,  then  add 
unbeaten  yolks,  and  stir  into  cooked  mixture ;  cook  one 
minute,  add  vanilla,  and  cool  before  serving. 

Sabyon  Sauce 

Grated  rind  and  juice  %  lemon  y^  cup  sugar 

%  cup  white  wine  or  2  eggs 

^  cup  Sherry 

Mix  lemon,  wine,  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs  ;  stir  vigorously 
over  fire  until  it  thickens,  using  a  wire  whisk ;  pour  on  to 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Hard  Sauce 

y^  cup  butter  y^  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  flavoring. 

Sterling  Sauce 

y^  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  wine 

4  tablespoons  cream  or  milk 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  graduall}^,  and  milk  and 
flavoring  drop  by  drop  to  prevent  separation. 

Wine  Sauce 
%  cup  butter  3  tablespoons  Sherry  or 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  Madeira  wine 

Slight  grating  nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  wine  slowly ; 
pile  on  glass  dish,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg. 

Brandy  Sauce 

^  cup  butter  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

2  tablespoon  brandy  %  cup  milk  or  cream 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  brandy  very 
slowly,  well  beaten  yolks,  and  milk  or  cream.     Cook  over 


410  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

hot  water  until  it  thickens  as  a  custard,  pour  on  to  beaten 
whites. 

Caramel  Brandy  Sauce 

Make  same  as  Brandy  Sauce,  substituting  brown  sugar  in 
place  of  powdered  sugar. 

Apricot  Sauce 

^  cup  apricot  pulp  ^  cup  heavy  cream 

Sugar 

Drain  canned  apricots  from  their  syrup,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Beat  cream  until  stiff,  add  to  apricot  pulp,  and 
sweeten  to  taste.     Sei've  with  German  toast. 


OOLD    DESSERTS  411 


CHAPTER  XXV 

COLD  DESSERTS 

Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange 
f^  cup  Irish  moss  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  cups  milk  1)^  teaspoons  vanilla 

Soak  moss  fifteen  minutes  in  cold  watei;  to  cover,  drain, 
pick  over,  and  add  to  milk;  cook  in  double  boiler  thirty 
minutes ;  the  milk  will  seem  but  little  thicker  than  when  put 
on  to  cook,  but  if  cooked  longer  blanc-mange  will  be  too 
stiff.  Add  salt,  strain,  flavor,  re-strain,  and  fill  individual 
moulds  previously  dipped  in  cold  water;  chill,  turn  on  glass 
dish,  surround  with  thin  slices  of  banana,  and  place  a  slice 
on  each  mould.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Chocolate  Blanc-Mange 

Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange  flavored  with  chocolate.  Melt 
one  and  one-half  squares  unsweetened  chocolate,  add  one- 
fourth  cup  sugar  and  one-third  cup  boiling  water,  stir  until 
perfectly  smooth,  adding  to  milk  just  before  taking  from  fire- 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Rebecca  Pudding 

4  cups  scalded  milk  )^  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  corn-starch  )^  cup  cold  milk 

"^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  3  eggs 

Mix  corn-starch,  sugar,  and  salt,  dilute  with  cold  milk, 
add  to  scalded  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thick- 
ens, afterwards  occasionally ;  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
flavoring  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stifl',  mix  thoroughly, 
mould,  chill,  and  serve  with  Yellow  Sauce  I  or  11. 


412  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Moulded  Snow 

Make  same  as  Rebecca  Pudding,  and  serve  with  Chocolate 
Sauce, 

Chocolate  Cream 

2  cups  scalded  milk  %  cup  cold  milk 

5  tablespoons  corn-starch     l^^o  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 
%  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  hot  water 

^  teaspoon  salt  Whites  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  corn-starch,  sugar,  and  salt,  dilute  with  cold  milk, 
add  to  scalded  milk,  and  cook  over  hot  w^ater  ten  minutes, 
stirring  constantly  until  thickened ;  melt  chocolate,  a(fd  hot 
water,  stir  until  smooth,  and  add  to  cooked  mixture  ;  add 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  vanilla.  Mould,  chili,  and 
serve  with  cream. 

Pineapple  Pudding 

2^  cups  scalded  milk  }^  cup  sugar 

^  cup  cold  milk  i^  teaspoon  salt 

3^  cup  corn -starch  %  can  grated  pineapple 

Whites  3  eggs. 

Follow  directions  for  Rebecca  Pudding,  and  add  pineapple 
just  before  moulding.  Fill  individual  moulds,  previously 
dipped  in  cold  water.     Serve  with  cream. 

Caramel  Junket 

2  cups  milk  Few  grains  salt 

^cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  boiling  water  Whipped  cream,  sweetened 

1  junket  tablet  and  flavored 

Chopped  nut  meats 

Heat  milk  until  lukewarm.  Caramelize  sugar,  add  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until-syrup  is  reduced  to  one-third  cup.  Cool, 
and  add  milk  slowly  to  syrup.  Reduce  junket  tablet  to  pow- 
der, using  a  small  mallet,  add  to  mixture,  with  salt  and  va- 
nilla. Turn  into  a  glass  dish,  let  stand  in  warm  place  until 
set,  then  chill.  Cover  with  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts. 


W 


COLD    DESSERTS  413 


Boiled  Custard 
2  cups  scalded  milk  }^  cup  sugar 

Yolks  3  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 


teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt;  stir  constantly 
while  adding  gradually  hot  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  con- 
tinue stirring  until  mixture  thickens  and  a  coating  is  formed 
on  the  spoon,  strain  immediately  ;  chill  and  flavor.  If  cooked 
too  long  the  custard  will  curdle  ;  should  this  happen,  by 
using  an  egg-beater  it  may  be  restored  to  a  smooth  con- 
sistency, but  custard  will  not  be  as  thick.  Eggs  should 
be  beaten  slightly  for  custard,  that  it  may  be  of  smooth, 
thick  consistency.  To  prevent  scum  from  forming,  cover 
with  a  perforated  tin.  When  eggs  are  scarce,  use  yolks  two 
eggs  and  one-half  tablespoon  corn-starch. 

Tipsy  Pudding 

Flavor  Boiled  Custard  with  Sherry  wine,  and  pour  over 
slices  of  stale  sponge  cake;  cover  with  Cream  Sauce  I 
or  II. 

Peach  Custard 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  stale  cake  and  sections  of 
canned  peaches  in  glass  dish  and  pour  over  Boiled  Custard. 
Bananas  may  be  used  instead  of  peaches ;  it  is  then  called 
Banana  Custard. 

Orange  Custard 

Arrange  slices  of  sweet  oranges  in  glass  dish,  pour  over 
them  Boiled  Custard  ;  chill,  and  cover  with  Meringue  I. 

Apple  Meringue  ^- 

Use  Meringue  I  and  pile  lightly  on  baked  apples,  brown  in 
oven,  cool,  and  serve  with  Boiled  Custard.  Canned  peaches, 
drained  from  their  liquor,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Apple  Sno"V7 

Whites  3  eggs  K  c"P  apple  pulp 

Powdered  sugar. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  four  sour  apples,  steam  until  soft, 
and  rub  through  sieve ;  there  should  be  three-fourths  cup 


414  BOSTON  COOKIKG-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

apple  pulp.  Beat  on  a  platter  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff 
(using  wire  whisk),  add  gradually  apple  sweetened  to  taste, 
and  continue  beating.  Pile  lightly  on  glass  dish,  chill,  and 
serve  with  Boiled  Custard. 

Prune  "Whip 

%  lb.  prunes  %  cup  sugar 

Whites  5  eggs  %  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes,  then  soak  several  hours  in 
cold  water  to  cover ;  cook  in  same  water  until  soft ;  remove 
stones  and  rub  prunes  through  a  strainer,  add  sugar,  and 
cook  five  minutes  ;  the  mixture  should  be  of  the  consistency 
of  marmalade.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  prune 
mixture  gradually  when  cold,  and  lemon  juice.  Pile  lightly 
on  buttered  pudding-dish,  bake  twenty  minutes  in  slow  oven. 
Serve  cold  with  Boiled  Custard. 

Raspberry  Whip 

1}^  cups  raspberries  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

White  1  egg 

Put  ingredients  in  bowl  and  beat  with  wire  whisk  until 
stiff  enough  to  hold  in  shape ;  about  thirty  minutes  will  be 
required  for  beating.  Pile  lightly  on  dish,  chill,  surround 
with  lady  fingers,  and  serve  with  Boiled  Custard. 

Strav/ berry  Whip  may  be  prepared  in  same  way. 

Baked  Custard 

4  cups  scalded  milk  }4  cup  sugar 

4  to  6  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

•p^  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt,  pour  on  slowly 
scalded  milk;  strain  in  buttered  mould,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until 
firm,  which  may  be-  readily  determined  by  running  a  silver 
knife  through  custard;  if  knife  comes  out  clean,  custard  is 
done.  During  baking,  care  must  be  taken  that  water  sur- 
rounding mould  does  not  reach  boiling-point,  or  custard  will 
whey.  Always  bear  in  mind  that  eggs  and  milk  in  com- 
bination must  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature.     For  cup  cua- 


COLD    DESSERTS  415 

tards  allow  four  eggs  to  four  cups  milk ;  for  large  moulded 
custard,  six  eggs ;  if  less  eggs  are  used  custard  is  liable  to 
crack  when  turned  on  a  serving  dish. 

Caramel  Custard 

4  cups  scalded  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

5  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

14  cup  sugar 

Put  sugar  in  omelet  pan,  stir  constantly  over  hot  part  of 
range  until  melted  to  a  syrup  of  light  brown  color.  Add 
gradually  to  milk,  being  careful  that  milk  does  not  bubble 
up  and  go  over,  as  is  liable  on  account  of  high  temperature 
of  sugar.  As  soon  as  sugar  is  melted  in  milk,  add  mixture 
gradually  to  eggs  slightly  beaten ;  add  salt  and  flavoring, 
then  strain  in  buttered  mould.  Bake  as  custard.  Chill,  and 
serve  with  Caramel  Sauce. 

Caramel  Sauce 

}4  cup  sugar  }4  cup  boiling  water 

liliss  Parloa 

Melt  sugar  as  for  Caramel  Custard,  add  water,  and  boil 
ten  minutes  ;  cool  before  serving. 

Coffee  Custard 

2  cups  milk  K  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  ground  coffee  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  34  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  milk  with  coffee,  and  strain.  Beat  eggs  slightly; 

add   sugar,   salt,    vanilla,    and    milk.  Strain   into   buttered 

individual  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until 
firm. 

Tapiioca  Cream 

y^  cup  pearl  tapioca  or  1  j^  table-  2  eggs 

spoons  minute  tapioca  %  cup  sugar             « 

2  cups  scalded  milk  34  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pick  over  tapioca  and  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water  to 
cover,  drain,  add  to  milk,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
tapioca  is  transparent.     Add  half  the  sugar  to  milk  and 


416  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

remainder  to  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten,  and  salt.  Combine 
by  pouring  hot  mixture  slowly  on  egg  mixture,  return  to 
double  boiler,  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from 
range  and  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Chill  and 
flavor. 

Norwegian  Prune  Pudding 

%  lb.  prunes  =  22  prunes  1  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon 

2  cups  cold  water  \y^  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar  3^  cup  corn-starch 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes,  then  soak  one  hour  in  cold 
water,  and  boil  until  soft  in  same  water.  Obtain  meat  from 
stones  and  add  to  prunes  and  water;  then  add  sugar,  cinna- 
mon, boiling  water,  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Dilute  corn- 
starch with  enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily,  add  to  prune 
mixture,  and  cook  live  minutes.  Remove  cinnamon,  add  lemon 
juice,  mould,  then  chill,  and  serve  with  cream. 

Nut  Prune  Souffle 

Follow  recipe  for  Norwegian  Prune  Pudding,  then  add 
whites  two  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  one-half  cup  walnut  meats 
broken  in  pieces. 

Apples  in  Bloom 

Select  eight  red  apples,  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft, 
turning  them  often.  Have  water  half  surround  apples.  Re- 
move skins  carefully,  that  the  red  color  may  remain,  and 
arrange  on  serving  dish.  To  the  water  add  one  cup  sugar, 
grated  rind  one-half  lemon,  and  juice  one  orange;  simmer 
until  reduced  to  one  cup.  Cool,  and  pour  over  apples.  Serve 
with  Cream  Sauce  I  or  II. 

Neapolitan  Baskets 

•  Bake  sponge  cake- in  gem  pans,  cool,  and  remove  centres. 
Fill  with  Cream  Sauce  I,  flavoring  half  the  sauce  with  choco- 
late. Melt  chocolate,  dilute  with  hot  water,  cool,  and  add 
Cream  Sauce  slowly  to  chocolate.  Garnish  with  candied 
cherries  and  angelica  and  insert  strips  of  angelica  to  repre- 
sent handles. 


COLD    DESSERTS  417 

"Wine  Cream 

Arrange  lady  fingers  or  slices  of  sponge  cake  in  a  dish, 
pour  over  cream  made  as  follows :  Mix  one-third  cup  sugar, 
grated  rind  and  juice  one-half  lemon,  one-fourth  cup  Sherry 
wine,  and  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  place  over  fire  and  stir  vigor- 
ously with  wire  whisk  until  it  thickens  and  is  frothy,  then 
pour  over  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  continue  beating. 

Orange  Salad 
Arrange  layers  of  sliced  oranges,  sprinkling  each  layer 
with  powdered  sugar  and  shredded  cocoauut.     Sliced  oranges 
when  served  alone  should  not  stand  long  after  slicing,  as 
they  are  apt  to  become  bitter. 

Fruit  Salad  I 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  shredded  pineapple,  sliced 
bananas,  and  sliced  oranges,  sprinkling  each  layer  with 
powdered  sugar.     Chill  before  serving. 

To  Shred  Pineapple.  Pare  and  cut  out  eyes,  pick  off 
small  pieces  with  a  silver  fork,  continuing  until  all  soft  part 
is  removed.  To  Slice  Oranges.  Remove  skin  and  white 
covering,  slice  lengthwise  that  the  tough  centre  may  not  be 
served :  seeds  should  be  removed. 

Fruit  Salad  II 
Pare  a  pineapple  and  cut  in  one-quarter  inch  slices,  remove 
hard  centres,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  set  aside  one 
hour  in  a  cool  place  ;  drain,  spread  on  serving  dish,  arrange 
a  circle  of  thin  slices  of  banana  on  each  piece,  nearly  to  the 
edge,  pile  strawberries  in  centre,  pour  over  syrup  drained 
from  pineapple,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  with 
or  without  Cream  Sauce. 

Fruit  Salad  with  Wine  Dressing 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  sliced  fruit,  using  pineapples, 
bananas,  oranges,  and  grapes ;  pour  over  all  Wine  Dressing, 
and  let  stand  one  hour  in  a  cold  place. 

Wine  Dressing 

Mix  one-half  cup  sugar,  one- third  cup  Sherry  wine,  and  two 
tablespoons  Madeira. 


418  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 

Cream  Whips 

Sweeten  thin  cream,  flavor  with  vanilla,  brandy,  or  wine, 
then  whip ;  half  fill  frappe  glasses  with  any  preserve,  pile 
on  lightly  the  whip. 

Saut§d  Fears  "w^ith  Chocolate  Sauce 

Pare  four  Bartlett  pears,  cut  in  fourths  lengthwise,  and 
saute  in  butter  until  browned.  Canned  pears  drained  from 
their  syrup  may  be  used  in  place  of  fresh  fruit.  Arrange  in 
serving  dish  and  pour  over 

Chocolate  Sauce.  Cook  two  ounces  sweet  chocolate,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  and  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk  in 
double  boiler  five  minutes  ;  then  add  one  teaspoon  arrow- 
root mixed  with  one-fourth  cup  cream  and  a  few  grains  salt, 
and  cook  ten  minutes.  Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter,  add  one-fourth  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  cook  until 
well  caramelized,  stirring  constantly.  Add  to  first  mixture, 
and  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.     Chill  thoroughly. 

Lemon  Jelly 

^  box  gelatine  or  i^  cup  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  granulated  2)^  cups  boiling  water 

gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

%  cup  lemon  juice 

Soak  gelatine  twenty  minutes  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in 
boiling  water,  strain,  and  add  to  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 
Turn  into  mould,  and  chill. 

Orange  Jelly 

%  box  gelatine  or  \%  cups  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  sugar 

gelatine  \%  cups  orange  juice 

%  cup  cold  water  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
,  Make  same  as  Lemon  Jelly. 

To  Remove  Juice  from  Oranges.  Cut  fruit  in  halves 
crosswise,  remove  with  spoon  pulp  and  juice  from  sections, 
and  strain  through  double  cheese-cloth;  or  use  a  glass 
lemon  squeezerc 


LD    DESSERTS  419 


lamquat  Jelly 

1)4  cups  kumquat  juice  1}4  tablespoons  Orange  Cura9oa 

3^  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine 

}^  cup  Sauterne  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

Few  grains  salt 

Wipe  three-fourths  box  kumquats,  cut  in  slices,  add  cold 
water  to  cover,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point,  and  cook  slowly 
one-half  hour ;  then  strain ;  there  should  be  one  and  one- 
half  cups  juice.  Add  sugar,  wine,  and  cura9oa.  Soak  gela- 
tme  in  cold  water,  and  add  to  first  mixture  heated  to  boiling- 
point  ;  then  add  salt.  Strain,  turn  into  individual  mould, 
and  chill.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  halves 
of  kumquats,  cooked  in  syrup  until  soft,  drained,  and  rolled 
in  sugar. 

Cofifee  Jelly 

)^  box  gelatine  or  )^  cup  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  boiling  water 

gelatine  3^  cup  sugar 

2  cups  boiled  coffee 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Jelly.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Cider  Jelly 

1^  box  gelatine  or  3^  cup  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  boiling  water 

gelatine  2  cups  cider 
Sugar 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Jelly. 

Wine  Jelly  I 

X  box  gelatine  or  1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  Sherry  or  Madeira 

gelatine  wine 

}^  cup  cold  water  3^  cup  orange  juice 

1^  cups  boiling  water  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Soak  gelatine  twenty  minutes  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in 
boiling  water;  add  sugar,  wine,  orange  juice,  and  lemon 
juice ;  strain,  mould,  and  chill.  If  a  stronger  jelly  is  desired, 
use  additional  wine  in  place  of  orange  juice. 


420  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  Jik'   BOOK 


# 


"Wine  Jelly 

%  box  gelatine  or  i^  cup  Sherry  wine 

2)^  tablespoons  granulated  2  tablespoons  brandy 

gelatine  Kirsch 

%  cup  cold  water  y^  cup  orange  juice 

\%  cups  boiling  water  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  sugar  Fruit  red 

Soak  gelatine  twenty  minutes  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in 
hot  water,  add  sugar,  fruit  juices,  Sherry,  brandy,  and 
enough  Kirsch  to  make  one  cup  of  strong  liquor,  then  color 
with  fruit  red.  Strain,  mould,  and  chill.  Serve  with  or 
without  Cream  Sauce  I. 

Russian  Jelly 

1^  box  gelantino  or  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  gi  ^    Jated 
gelatine 

•    ^  cup  cold  water  3^  cup  orange  juice 

\%  tablespoons  lemon  juico 

Make  same  as  other  jellies,  cool  slightly,  and  beat  until 
frothy  and  firm  enough  to  mould.  Turn  into  mould  and 
chill. 

Jelly  in  Glasses 

Use  recipe  for  Wine  or  Eussian  Jelly.  Fill  Apollinaris 
glasses  three-fourths  full,  reserving  one-fourth  of  the  mix- 
ture, which,  after  cooling,  is  to  be  beaten  until  frothy  (using 
a  Dover  egg-beater)  and  placed  on  top  of  jelly  in  glasses 
which  represents  freshly  drawn  lager  beer.  This  is  a  most 
attractive  way  of  serving  jelly  to  one  who  is  ill. 

Sauterne  Jelly 

Soak  two  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  in  one-half  cup 
cold  water,  and  dissolve  in  one  and  one-half  cups  boiling 
water.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups  Sauterne,  three  table- 
spoons lemon  juice,  and  one  cup  sugar.  Color  with  leaf 
green,  strain  into  a  shallow  pan,  chill,  and  cut  in  inch 
cubes. 


^ 


LD    DESSERTS  421 


%    Jellied  Prunes 

^  lb.  prunes  3^  box  gelatine  or 

2  cups  cold  water  2}^  tablespoons  granulated 

Boiling  water  gelatine 

3^  cup  cold  water  1  cup  sugar 

^  cup  lemon  juice 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  soak  prunes  for  several  hours  in  two 
cups  cold  water,  and  cook  in  same  water  until  soft;  remove 
prunes ;  stone,  and  cut  in  quarters.  To  prune  water  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  two  cups.  Soak  gelatine 
in  half-cup  cold  water,  dissolve  in  hot  liquid,  add  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  then  strain,  add  prunes,  mould,  and  chill. 
Stir  twice  while  cooling  to  prevent  prunes  from  settling. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Jellied  "Walnuts 

1^  box  gelatine  or  )^  cup  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  granulated  ^  cup  sugar 

gelatine  3^  cup  Sherry  wine 

^  cup  cold  water  }4  cup  orange  juice 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Make  same  as  other  jellies  and  cover  bottom  of  shallow 
pan  with  one-half  the  mixture.  When  nearly  firm,  place 
over  it,  one  inch  apart,  halves  of  English  walnuts.  Cover 
with  remaining  mixture.  Chill,  and  cut  in  squares.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Apricot  and  "Wine  Jelly 

}4  box  gelatine  or  1  cup  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  apricot  juice 

gelatine  1  cup  wine 

}^  cup  cold  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Garnish  individual  moulds  with  halves  of  canned  apricots, 
fill  with  mixture  made  same  as  for  other  jellies,  and  chilL 
Arrange  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream     • 
jfprced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 


422  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

*  Sno"wr  Pudding  I 

%  box  gelatine  or  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

^  cup  cold  water  i^  cup  lemon  juice 

Whites  3  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add 
sugar  and  lemon  juice,  strain,  and  set  aside  in  cool  place ; 
occasionally  stir  mixture,  and  when  quite  thick,  beat  with 
wire  spoon  or  whisk  until  frothy ;  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  and  continue  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 
Mould,  or  pile  by  spoonfuls  on  glass  dish  ;  serve  cold  with 
Boiled  Custard.  A  very  attractive  dish  may  be  prepared  by 
coloring  half  the  mixture  with  fruit  red. 

Snow  Pudding  II 

Beat  whites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff,  add  one-half  tablespoon 
granulated  gelatine  dissolved  in  three  tablespoons  boiling 
water,  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed,  add  one-fourth  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Pile  lightly  on  dish,  serve  with  Boiled  Custard. 

Amber  Pudding 

Make  as  Snow  Pudding  I,  using  cider  instead  of  boiling 
water,  and  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water  to  dissolve  gelatine, 
omitting  lemon  juice,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Toasted  Marshmallows 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine        Whites  3  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water  1)^  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  Macaroons 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar,  and  as  soon 
as  dissolved  set  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  of  ice-water ; 
then  add  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  mixture 
thickens.  Turn  into  a  shallow  pan,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  let  stand  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Remove  from 
pan  and  cut  in  pieces  the  size  and  shape  of  marshmallows ; 
then  roll  in  macaroons  which  h  ^ve  been  dried  and  rolled. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


Toasted  Marsh  mallows.  —  Page  4tt, 


Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding.  —  Page  430, 


Charlotte  Russe.  —  Page  4^7o 


riWIiiim'Ti'i  i   n  ni 


Orange  Trifle  garnished  with  Whipped  Cream,  Candied 
Orange  Peel,  and  Blossoms.  —  Page  4^7. 


COLD   DESSERTS  423 

Pudding  k  la  Mac§doine 

Make  fruit  or  wine  jelly  mixture.  Place  a  mould  in  pan 
of  ice-water,  pour  in  mixtirre  one-half  inch  deep ;  when  firm, 
decorate  with  slices  of  banana  from  which  radiate  thin  strips 
of  figs  (seed  side  down),  cover  fruit,  adding  mixture  by 
spoonfuls  lest  the  fruit  be  disarranged.  When  firm,  add 
more  fruit  and  mixture ;  repeat  until  all  is  used,  each  time 
allowing  mixture  to  stiffen  before  fruit  is  added.  In 
preparing  this  dish  various  fruits  may  be  used :  oranges, 
bananas,  dates,  figs,  and  English  walnuts.  Serve  with 
Cream  Sauce  I. 

Fruit  Chartreuse 

Make  fruit  or  wine  jelly  mixture.  Place  a  mould  in  pan  of 
ice-water,  pour  in  mixture  one-half  inch  deep;  when  firm, 
decorate  wit^.  candied  cherries  and  angelica ;  add  by  spoon- 
fuls more  mi  <:ture  to  cover  fruit ;  when  this  is  firrm,  place  a 
smaller  mould  in  centre  on  jelly,  and  fill  with  ice-water. 
Pour  gradually  remaining  jelly  mixture  between  moulds; 
when  firm,  invert  to  empty  smaller  mould  of  ice-water;  then 
pour  in  some  tepid  water;  let  stand  a  few  seconds,  when 
small  mould  may  easily  be  removed.  Fill  space  thus  made 
with  fresh  sweetened  fruit,  using  shr'  ided  pineapple,  sliced 
bananas,  and  strawberries. 

Spanish  Cream 

1^  box  gelatine  or  Yolk  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  granulated  ^  cup  sugar  (scant) 

gelatine  J^  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

Whites  3  eggs  3  tablespoons  wine 

Scald  milk  with  gelatine,  add  sugar,  pour  slowly  on  yolks 
of  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  thickened,  stirring  constantly  ;  remove  from  range,  add 
salt,  flavoring,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into 
individual  moulds,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill ;  serve 
with  cream.  More  gelatine  will  be  required  if  large  moulds 
are  used. 


424  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK   BOOK 

Coffee  Souffl§ 
1}^  cups  coffee  infusion  }£  teaspoon  salt 

}4  cup  milk  3  eggs 

^  cup  sugar  }^  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine 

Mix  coffee  infusion,  milk,  one-half  of  the  sugar  and  gela« 
tine,  and  heat  in  double  boiler.  Add  remaining  sugar,  salt, 
and  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten  ;  cook  until  mixture  thick- 
ens, remove  from  range,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff  and  vanilla.     Mould,  chill,  and  serve  with  cream. 

Columbian  Pudding 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  fancy  mould  with  Wine  Jelly.  Line 
the  upper  part  of  mould  with  figs,  cut  in  halves  cross-wise, 
which  have  been  soaked  in  jelly,  having  seed  side  next  to 
mould.  Fill  centre  with  Spanish  Cream;  chill,  and  turn  on 
a  serving  dish.     Garnish  with  cubes  of  Wine  Jelly. 

Macaroon  Cream 

^  box  gelatine  or  Yolks  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  granulated  )^  cup  sugar 

gelatine  3^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  cold  water  %  cup  pounded  macaroons 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  3  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Make  custard  of  milk,  yolks 
of  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt ;  add  gelatine,  and  strain  into  pan 
set  in  ice-water.  Add  macaroons  and  flavoring,  stirring 
until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  mould,  chill,  and  serve  garnished  with  macaroons. 

Cold  Cabinet  Pudding 

^  box  gelatine  or  K  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  3^  teaspoon  salt 
^  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  brandy 
Yolks  3  eggs  5  lady  fingers 

6  macaroons 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  add  to  custard  made  of 
milk,   eggs,  sugar,   salt;  strain,   cool  slightly,   and   flavor. 


COLD   DESSERTS  425 

Place  a  mould  in  pan  of  ice-water,  decorate  with  candied 
cherries  and  angelica,  cover  with  mixture,  added  carefully 
by  spoonfuls  ;  when  firm,  add  layer  of  lady  fingers  (first 
soaked  in  custard),  then  layer  of  macaroons  (also  soaked 
in  custard)  ;  repeat,  care  being  taken  that  each  layer  is 
firm  before  another  is  added.  Garnish,  and  serve  with 
Cream  Sauce  I  and  candied  cherries. 

Mont  Blanc 
Remove  shells  from  three  cups  French  chestnuts,  cook  in 
small  quantity  of  boiling  water  until  soft,  when  there  will  be 
no  water  remaining.  Mash,  sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  moisten  with  hot  milk ;  cook  two  minutes.  Rub 
through  strainer,  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla,  Kirsch  or  Maras- 
chino. Pile  in  form  of  pyramid,  cover  with  Cream  Sauce  I, 
garnish  base  with  Cream  Sauce  I  forced  through  pastry  bag 

and  tube. 

French  Chef 

Cr§me  auz  Fruits 

1^  box  gelatine  or  Whites  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  )4  pi°*  thick  cream 

1^  cup  cold  water  3^3  cup  milk 

}^  cup  scalded  milk  34  ^^P  cooked  prunes, 

^1^  cup  sugar  cut  in  pieces 

%  cup  chopped  figs 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  scalded  milk,  and 
add  sugar.  Strain  in  pan  set  in  ice-water,  stir  constantly, 
and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  cream  (diluted  with  milk  and  beaten),  prunes,  and  figs. 
Mould  and  chill. 

To  TVhip  Cream 

Thin  and  heavy  cream  are  both  used  in  making  and  gar- 
nishing desserts. 

Heavy  cream  is  bought  in  half-pint,  pint,  and  quart  glass 
jars,  and  usually  retails  at  sixty  cents  per  quart;  thin  or 
strawberry  cream  comes  in  glass  jars  or  may  be  bought  in 
bulk,  and  usually  retails  for  thirty  cents  per  quart.  Heavy 
cream  is  very  rich  ;  for  which  reason,  when  whipped  without 


426  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

being  diluted,  it  is  employed  as  a  garnish ;  even  when  so 
used,  it  is  gcHerally  diluted  with  one-fourth  to  one-third  its 
bulk  in  milk ;  when  used  in  combination  with  other  ingredients 
for  making  desserts,  it  is  diluted  from  one-half  to  two-thh-ds 
its  bulk  in  milk.  Thin  cream  is  whipped  without-  being 
diluted.  Cream  should  be  thoroughly  chilled  for  whipping. 
Turn  cream  to  be  whipped  into  a  bowl  (care  being  taken  not 
to  select  too  large  a  bowl),  and  set  in  pan  of  crushed  ice, 
to  which  water  is  added  that  cream  may  b,e  quickly  chilled ; 
without  addition  of  water,  cream  will  not  be  so  thoroughly 
chilled. 

For  whipping  heavy  cream  undiluted,  or  diluted  with  one- 
third  or  less  its  bulk  in  milk,  use  Dover  egg-beater ;  un- 
diluted heavy  cream  if  beaten  a  moment  too  long  will  come 
to  butter.  Heavy  cream  diluted,  whipped,  sweetened,  and 
flavored,  is  often  served  with  puddings,  and  called  Cream 
Sauce. 

Thin  cream  is  whipped  by  using  a  whip  churn,  as  is  heavy 
cream  when  diluted  with  one-half  to  two-thirds  its  bulk  in 
milk.  Place  churn  in  bowl  containing  cream,  hold  down 
cover. with  left  hand,  with  right  hand  work  dasher  with  quick 
downward  and  slow  upward  motions;  avoid  raising  dasher 
too  high  in  cylinder,  thus  escaping  spattering  of  cream. 
The  first  whip  which  appears  should  be  stirred  into  cream, 
as  air  bubbles  are  too  large  and  will  break ;  second  whip 
should  be  removed  by  spoonfuls  to  a  strainer,  strainer 
to  be  placed  in  a  pan,  as  some  cream  will  drain  through. 
The  first  cream  which  drains  through  may  be  turned  into 
bowl  to  be  rewhipped,  and  continue  whipping  as  long  as 
possible. 

There  will  be  some  cream  left  in  bowl  which  does  not 
come  above  perforations  in  whip  churn,  and  cannot  be 
whipped.  Cream  which  rem.ains  may  be  scalded  and  used 
to  dissolve  gelatine  when  making  desserts  which  require 
gelatine.  Cream  should  treble  its  bulk  in  whipping.  By 
following  these  directions  one  need  have  no  difficulty,  if 
cream  is  of  right  consistency ;  always  bearing  in  mind  heavy 
cream  must  be  whipped  with  an  egg-beater  ;  thin  cream  must 
be  whipped  with  a  churn. 


COLD   DESSERTS  427 

Charlotte  Russe 
}^  box  gelatine  or  y^  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  tablespoon    granulated  Whip  from  3i^  cups  thin 

gelatine  cream 

^  cup  cold  water  Ij^  teaspoons  vanilla 

y^  cup  scalded  cream  6  lady  fingers 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  scalded  cream, 
Btrain  into  a  bowl,  and  add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Set  bowl  in 
pan  of  ice-water  and  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  fold  in  whip  from  cream,  adding  one-third 
at  a  time.  Should,  gelatine  mixture  become  too  thick,  melt 
over  hot  water,  and  again  cool  before  adding  whip.  Trim 
ends  and  sides  of  lady  fingers,  place  around  inside  of  a 
mould,  crust  side  out,  one-half  inch  apart.  Turn  in  mixture, 
and  chill.  Serve  garnished  with  cubes  of  Wine  Jelly.  Char- 
lotte Russe  is  sometimes  made  in  individual  moulds ;  these 
are  often  garnished  on  top  with  some  of  mixture  forced  through 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Individual  moulds  are  frequently 
lined  with  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake  cut  to  fit  moulds. 

Orange  Trifle 

^  box  gelatine  or  1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  orange  juice 

gelatine  Grated  rind  1  orange 

y^  cup  cold  water  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1^  cup  boiling  water  Whip  from  3j^  cups  cream 

Make  same  as  Charlotte  Russe,  and  mould;  or  make 
orange  jelly,  color  with  fruit  red,  and  cover  bottom  of 
mould  one-half  inch  deep;  chill,  and  when  firm  fiU  with 
Orange  Trifle  mixture.  Cool  remaining  jelly  in  shallow  pan, 
cut  in  cubes,  and  garnish  base  of  mould. 

Banana  Cantaloupe 
}4.  box  gelatine  or  %  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine         4  bananas,  mashed  pulp 
3^  cup  cold  water  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Whites  2  eggs  Whip   from   Sj^   cups 

1^  cup  powdered  sugar  cream 

^  cup  scalded  cream  12  lady  fingers 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  beat  whites  of  eggs  slightly, 
add  powdered  sugar,  and  gradually  hot  cream,  cook  over 


428  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

hot  water  until  it  thickens ;  add  soaked  gelatine  and  remain* 
ing  sugar,  strain  into  a  pan  set  in  ice-water,  add  bananas 
and  lemon  juice,  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in 
whip  from  cream.  Line  a  melon  mould  with  lady  fingers 
trimmed  to  just  fit  sections  of  mould,  turn  in  the  mixture, 
spread  evenly,  and  chill. 

Chocolate  Charlotte 

^'  box  gelatine  or  1)^  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  tablespoon  granulated  3  tablespoons  hot  water 

gelatine  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

3^  cup  cold  water  Whip  from  o  cups  cream 

y^  cup  scalded  cream  1  teaspoon  vanilla" 

6  lady  fingers 

Melt  chocolate  by  placing  in  a  small  saucepan  set  in  a 
larger  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  add  half  the  sugar,  dilute 
with  boiling  water,  and  add  to  gelatine  mixture  while  hot. 
Proceed  same  as  in  recipe  for  Charlotte  Russe. 

Caramel  Charlotte  Russe 

^  box  gelatine  or  y^  cup  sugar,  caramelized 

1  tablespoon  granulated  ^  cup  powdered  sugar 

gelatine  \%  teaspoons  vanilla 

^  cup  cold  water  Whip  from  Z%  cups  cream 

)^cup  scalded  cream  6  lady  fingers 

Make  same  as  Charlotte  Russe,  adding  caramelized  sugar 
to  scalded  cream  before  putting  into  gelatine  mixture. 

Burnt  Almond  Charlotte 

%  box  gelatine  or  %  cup  sugar,  caramelized 

2  tablespoons  granulated  ^  cup  blanched  and  finely 

gelatine  chopped  almonds 

%  cup  cold  water   ■  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  scalded  milk  Whip  from  3>^  cups  cream 

%  cup  sugar  6  lady  fingers 

Make  same  as  Caramel  Charlotte  Russe,  adding  nuts  before 
folding  in  cream. 


COLD   DESSERTS  429 


Ginger  Cream 

1^  box  gelatine  or  Few  grains  salt 

1  tablespoon  granulated  1  tablespoon  wine 

gelatine  %  tablespoon  brandy 

y^  cup  cold  water  2  tablespoons  ginger  syrup 

1  cup  milk  ^  cup  Canton  ginger,  cut  in 
Yolks  2  eggs   .       '  pieces 

3^  cup  sugar  Whip  from  2 j^  cups  cream 

Soak  gelatine,  and  add  to  custard  made  of  milk,  eggs, 
sugar,  and  salt.  Strain,  chill  in  pan  of  ice- water,  add  fla- 
vorings, and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  fold  in  whip  from 
cream. 

Orange  Charlotte 

"%  box  gelatine  or  1  cup  sugar 

\y^  tablespoons  granulated  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

gelatine  1  cup  orange  juice  and  pulp 

1^  cup  cold  water  Whites  3  eggs 

y^  cup  boiling  water  Whip  from  2  cups  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water, 
strain,  and  add  sugar,  lemon  juice,  orange  juice,  and  pulp. 
Chill  in  pan  of  ice-water ;  when  quite  thick,  beat  with  wire 
spoon  or  whisk  until  frothy,  then  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  and  fold  in  cream.  Line  a  mould  with  sections  oi 
oranges,  turn  in  mixture,  smooth  evenly,  and  chill. 

Strawberry  Sponge 

y^  box  gelatine  or  1  cup  sugar 

\y  tablespoons  granulated  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

gelatine  1  cup  strawberry  juice 

y^  cup  cold  water  Whites  3  eggs 

y^  cup  boiling  water  Whip  from  3  cups  cream 

Make  same  as  Orange  Charlotte. 

Orange  Baskets 

Cut  two  pieces  from  each  orange,  leaving  what  remains  in 
shape  of  basket  with  handle,  remove  pulp  from  baskets  and 
pieces,  and  keep  baskets  in  ice-water  until  ready  to  fill. 


430  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

From  orange   juice   make  orange   jelly  with  which   to  fill 
t  baskets.     Serve  garnished  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Orange  Jelly  in  Ambush 

Cut  oranges  in  halves  lengthwise,  remove  pulp  and  juice. 
With  juice  make  Orange  Jelly  to  fill  half  the  pieces.  Fill 
remaining  pieces  with  Charlotte  Russe  mixture.  When  both 
are  firm,  put  together  in  pairs  and  tie  together  with  narrow 
white  ribbon. 

Bavarian  Cream  (Quick) 

%  lemon,  grated  rind  and  2  eggs 

juice  1  teaspoon  granulated 

y^  cup  white  wine  *  gelatine 

y^  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

*  ■  ^ 

Mix  lemon,  wine,  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs;  stir  vigor- 
ously over  fire  until  mixture  thickens,  add  gelatine  soaked 
in  water,  then  pour  over  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Set  in 
pan  of  ice-water  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  hold  its 
shape.  Turn  into  a  mould  lined  with  lady  fingers,  and  chill. 
Orange  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  wine,  and  the  cream 
served  in  orange  baskets. 

Strav;rberry  Bavarian  Cream 

Line  a  mould  with  large,  fresh  strawberries  cut  in  halves, 
fill  with  Charlotte  Russe  mixture. 

Pineapple  Bavarian  Cream 

%  box  gelatine  or  1  can  grated  pineapple 

2  tablespoons  granulated  %  ^^V  sugar 

gelatine  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  cup  cold  water  Whip  from  3  cups  cream 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Heat  pineapple,  add  sugar^ 
iemon  juice,  and  soaked  gelatine;  chill  in  pan  of  ice-water, 
stirring  constantly  ;- when  it  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  whip 
from  cream,  mould,  and  chill. 

Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding 

Place  mould  in  pan  of  ice-water  and  pour  fn  Wine  Jelly  11 
one-half  inch  deep.     When  firm,  decorate  with  candied  cher 


COLD   DESSERTS  431 

ries  and  angelica,  proceed  as  for  Fruit  Chartreuse,  filling  the 
centre  with  Charlotte  Russe  mixture  or  Fruit  Cream.  # 

Fruit  Cream 

Peel  four  bananas,  mash,  and  rnb  through  a  sieve ;  add 
pulp  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
one  tablespoon  Sherry  wine,  two-thirds  cup  powdered  sugar, 
and  one  and  one-fourth  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  one- fourth  cup  boiling  water.  Cool  in  ice-water, 
stirring  constantly,  and  fold  in  whip  from  two  cups  cream. 

Ivory  Cream 

j^  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  4  tablespoons  powdered 

1  tablespoon  cold  water  sugar 

2  tablespoons  boiling  water  ^3  tablespoons  Madeira 

3  cups  cream  wine 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  and 
add  sugar  and  wine.  Strain  into  a  bowl,  set  in  pan  of  ice- 
water,  and  beat  until  mixture  thickens  slightly.  Add  to 
mixture  whip  from  cream,  and  beat  until  mixture  is  thick 
enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Mould  and  chill.  Garnish  with 
Sauterne  Jelly. 

Pudding  ^  I'Adrea 

2  cups  thin  cream  Whites  4  eggs 

1/^  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  3  tablespoons  Sherry 

2  tablespoons  cold  water  iy4  tablespoons  Sauterne 

%  cup  sugar  Sauterne  jelly  mixture 

Make  one-half  recipe  for  Sauterne  Jelly  (see  p.  420), 
allowing  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine. 
Color  one-half  green  and  one-half  red.  Fill  sections  of  a 
fancy  mould  alternately  with  green  and  red  jelly.  In  the 
green  jelly  mould  pistachio  nuts  cut  in  quarters;  in  red 
jelly  glaced  cherries  cut  in  quarters. 

Scald  cream,  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water,  and  sugar. 
When  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  whites  oi  e^'"«yb.^ten 
until  stiff.     Set  in  pan  of  ice-water,  and  stir  occasib^aiiy^  until 
mixture  thickens;  then  add  flav^ing  and  turn  into  mould 
Chill  thoroughly  and  remove  from  mould.      v 


432  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


French  Easter  Cream 

1^  cup  raisins  1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine 

^  cup  brandy  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

2  cups  cream  Maraschino^ 

%  cup  sugar  Slow  gin       \  ^  cup  each 

Yolks  3  eggs  Brandy         J 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Seed  raisins,  add  brandy,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
raisins  are  soft.  Make  a  custard  of  cream,  sugar,  Qg^  yolks 
and  salt.  Remove  from  range,  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold 
water.  Strain,  cool  slightly,  add  flavorings,  stir  until  mixture 
thickens,  then  add  raisins.  Mould  and  chill.  Remove  from 
mould,  and  garnish  with  Sauterne  Jelly  (colored  violet),  cut 
in  cubes,  and  fresh  violets. 

Marshmallow  Pudding  k  la  Stanley 

y^  pound  marshm allows  ^  cup  candied  cherries 

1  cup  heavy  cream  %  cup  English  walnut  meats 

1^  teaspoon  vanilla  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Soak  cherries  in  rum  to  cover  one  hour,  then  cut  in  pieces. 
Cut  walnut  meats  and  marshmallows  in  small  pieces.  Whip 
cream,  add  sugar  and  vanilla,  fold  in  remaining  ingredients. 
Mould  and  chill. 


ICES,   ICE   CEEAMSj  ETC.  433 


CHAPTER  XXVI 
ICES,  ICE  CREAMS,  AND  OTHER  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

ICES  and  other  frozen  dishes  comprise  the  most  popular 
desserts.  Hygienically  speaking,  they  cannot  be  recom- 
mended for  the  final  course  of  a  dinner,  as  cold  mixtures 
reduce  the  temperature  of  the  stomach,  thus  retarding  diges- 
tion until  the  normal  temperature  is  again  reached.  But 
how  cooling,  refreshing,  and  nourishing,  when  properly  taken, 
and  of  what  inestimable  value  in  the  sick  room ! 

Frozen  dishes  include  :  — 

Water  Ice,  —  fruit  juice  sweetened,  diluted  with  water,  and 
frozen. 

Sherbet,  —  water  ice  to  which  is  added  a  small  quantity  of 
dissolved  gelatine  or  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

JFrapp^,  —  water  ice  frozen  to  consistency  of  mush ;  in 
freezing,  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ice  being  used  to  make  it 
granular. 

Punch,  —  water  ice  to  which  is  added  spirit  and  spice. 

Sorbet,  —  strictly  speaking,  frozen  punch;  the  name  ia 
often  given  to  a  water  ice  where  several  kinds  of  fruit  are 
used. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream,  —  thin  cream,  sweetened,  flavored, 
and  frozen. 

Plain  Ice  Cream,  —  custard  foundation,  thin  cream,  and 
flavoring. 

Mousse,  —  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  sweetened, 
flavored,  placed  in  a  mould,  packed  in  salt  and  ice  (using 
two  parts  crushed  ice  to  one  part  salt),  and  allowed  to  stand 
three  hours ;  or  whip  from  thin  cream  may  be  used  folded 
into  mixture  containing  small  quantity  of  gelatine. 


434  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


HoTTv  to  Freeze  Desserts 

The  prejudice  of  thinking  a  frozen  dessert  diflScult  to  pre- 
pare has  long  since  been  overcome.  With  ice  cream  freezer, 
burlap  bag,  wooden  mallet  or  axe,  small  saucepan,  sufficient 
ice  and  coarse  rock  salt,  the  process  neither  takes  much  time 
nor  patience.  Snow  may  be  used  instead  of  ice;  if  not 
readily  acted  on  by  salt,  pour  in  one  cup  cold  water.  Crush 
ice  finely  by  placing  in  bag  and  giving  a  few  blows  with 
mallet  or  broad  side  of  axe ;  if  there  are  any  coarse  pieces, 
remove  them.  Place  can  containing  mixture  to  be  frozen  in 
wooden  tub,  cover,  and  adjust  top.  Turn  crank  to  make 
sure  can  fits  in  socket.  Allow  three  level  measures  ice  to 
one  of  salt,  and  repeat  until  ice  and  salt  come  to  top  of  can, 
packing  solidly,  using  handle  of  mallet  to  force  it  down.  If 
only  small  quantity  is  to  be  frozen,  the  ice  and  salt  need 
come  only  a  little  higher  in  the  tub  than  mixture  to  be  frozen. 
These  are  found  the  best  proportions  of  ice  and  salt  to 
insure  smooth,  fine-grained  cream,  sherbet,  or  water  ice, 
while  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ice  are  used  for  freezing  f rappe. 
If  a  larger  proportion  of  salt  is  used,  mixture  will  freeze  in 
shorter  time  and  be  of  granular  consistency,  which  is  desirable 
only  for  frappe. 

The  mixture  increases  in  bulk  during  freezing,  so  the  can 
should  never  be  more  than  three-fourths  filled;  by  over- 
crowding can,  cream  will  be  made  coarse-grained.  Turn  the 
crank  slowly  and  steadily  to  expose  as  large  surface  of  mix- 
ture as  possible  to  ice  and  salt.  After  frozen  to  a  mush,  the 
crank  may  be  turned  more  rapidly,  adding  more  ice  and  salt 
if  needed  ;  never  draw  off  salt  water  until  mixture  is  frozen, 
unless  there  is  possibility  of  its  getting  into  the  can,  for  salt 
water  is  what  effects  freezing ;  until  ice  melts,  no  change 
will  take  place.  After  freezing  is  accomplished,  draw  off 
water,  remove  dasher,  and  with  spoon  pack  solidly.  Put 
cork  in  opening  of  cover,  then  put  on  cover.  Re-pack 
freezer,  using  four  measures  ice  to  one  of  salt.  Place  over 
top  newspapers  or  piece  of  carpet ;  when  serving  time  comes, 
remove  can,  wipe  carefully,  and  place  in  vessel  of  cool  water ; 
let  stand  one  minute,  remove  cover,  and  run  a  knife  around 


I0B8,   ICE  CBEAMS,   ETC.  435 

edge  of  cream,  invert  can  on  serving  dish,  and  frozen  mix- 
ture will  slip  out.  Should  there  be  any  difficulty,  a  cloth 
wrung  out  of  hot  water,  passed  over  can,  will  aid  in  removing 
mixture. 

To  Line  a  Mould 

Allow  mould  to  stand  in  salt  and  ice  until  well  chilled. 
Remove  cover,  put  in  mixture  by  spoonfuls,  and  spread  with 
back  of  spoon  or  a  case  knife  evenly  three-quarters  inch 
thick. 

To  Mould  Frozen  Mixtures 

When  frozen  mixtures  are  to  be  bricked  or  moulded ,  avoid 
freezing  too  hard.  Pack  mixture  solidly  in  moulds  and  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  buttered  side  up.  Have  moulds  so  well 
filled  that  mixture  is  forced  down  sides  of  mould  when  cover 
is  pressed  down.  Re-pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  four  parts 
ice  to  one  part  salt.  If  these  directions  are  carefully  fol- 
lowed, one  may  feel  no  fear  that  salt  water  will  enter  cream, 
even  though  moulds  be  immersed  in  salt  water. 

Lemon  Ice 

4  cups  water  2  cups  sugar 

%  cup  lemon  juice 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  five  minutes ; 
add  lemon  juice;  cool,  strain,  and  freeze.  See  directions 
for  freezing,  page  434. 

Cup  St.  Jacques 

Serve  Lemon  Ice  in  champagne  glasses.  Put  three-fourths 
teaspoon  Maraschino  in  each  glass,  and  garnish  with  bananas 
cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  and  slices  cut  in  quarters,  can- 
died cherries  cut  in  halves,  Malaga  grapes  from  which  skins 
and  seeds  have  been  removed,  and  angelica  cut  in  strips. 

Orange  Ice 

4  cups  water  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

2  cups  sugar  Grated  rind  of  two 

2  cups  orange  juice  oranges 

Make  syrup  as  for  Lemon  Ice ;  add  fruit  juice  and  grated 
rind  ;  cool,  strain,  and  freeze. 


436  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Maraschino  Ice 

Prepare  Orange  Ice  mixture,  freeze  to  a  mush,  flavor  with 
Maraschino,  and  finish  freezing.     Serve  in  frappe  glasses. 

Pomegranate  Ice 
Same  as  Orange  Ice,  made  from  blood  oranges. 

Raspberry  Ice  I 

4  cups  water  2  cups  raspberry  juice 

1  %  cups  sugar  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Make  a  syrup  as  for  Lemon  Ice,  cool,  add  raspberries 
mashed,  and  squeezed  through  double  cheese-cloth,  and  lemon 
juice ;  strain  and  freeze. 

Raspberry  Ice  II 

1  quart  raspberries  1  cup  water 

1  cup  sugar  Lemon  juice 

Sprinkle  raspberries  with  sugar,  cover,  and  let  stand  two 
hours.  Mash,  squeeze  through  cheese-cloth,  add  water  and 
lemon  juice  to  taste,  then  freeze.  Raspberry  ice  prepared 
in  this  way  retains  the  natural  color  of  the  fruit. 

Stravrberry  Ice  I 
4  cups  water  2  cups  strawberry  juice 

\%  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Raspberry  Ice  I. 

Straw^berry  Ice  II 

1  quart  box  strawberries  1  cup  water 

1  cup  sugar  Lemon  juice 
Make  same  as  Raspberry  Ice  II. 

Currant  Ice 

4  cups  water  \%  cups  sugar 

2  cups  currant  juice 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Raspberry  Ice  I. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Ice 

4  cups  water  %  cup  raspberry  juice 

\yi  cups  sugar  Ij^  cups  currant  juice 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Raspberry  Ice  I. 


ICES,   ICE   CREAMS,   ETC.  437 

Crgme  de  Menthe  Ice 

4  cups  water  y^  ^^P  Crdme  de  Menthe  cordial 

1  cup  sugar  Green  coloring 

Make  a  syrup  as  for  Lemon  Ice,  add  cordial  and  coloring; 
strain  and  freeze. 

Icebergs 

Dissolve  two  cups  sugar  in  three  cups  boiling  water ;  cool, 
add  three-fourths  cup  lemon  juice,  color  with  leaf  green,  and 
freeze.  Serve  in  champagne  glasses.  Put  one  teaspoon 
creme  de  menthe  in  each  glass,  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  nut  meats,  using  almonds,  filberts,  pecans,  and  wal- 
nuts in  equal  proportions.  These  may  be  used  after  the 
roast  and  before  the  game. 

Canton  Snerbet 

4  cups  water  ^  lb.  Canton  ginger 

1  cup  sugar  i^  cup  orange  juice 


cup  lemon  juice 


Cut  ginger  in  small  pieces,  add  water  and  sugar,  boil 
fifteen  minutes;  add  fruit  juice,  cool,  strain,  and  freeze. 
To  be  used  in  place  of  punch  at  a  course  dinner.  This 
quantity  is  enough  to  serve  twelve  persons. 

Milk  Sherbet 

4  cups  milk  1)4,  cups  sugar 

Juice  3  lemons 

Mix  juice  and  sugar,  stirring  constantly  while  slowly  add- 
ing milk ;  if  added  too  rapidly  mixture  will  have  a  curdled 
appearance,  which  is  unsightly,  but  will  not  affect  the 
quality  of  sherbet;  freeze  and  serve. 

Frozen  Chocolate  Tvith  "Whipped  Cream 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

3  cups  rich  milk 

Scald  milk.  Melt  chocolate  in  small  saucepan  placed 
over  hot  water,  add  one-half  the  sugar,  salt,  and  gradually 


438  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

boiling  water.  Boil  five  minutes,  add  to  scalded  milk  with 
remaining  sugar.  Cool,  freeze,  and  serve  in  glasses.  Gar- 
nish with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla. 

Pineapple  Frapp^ 
2  cups  water  2  cups  ice-water 

1  cup  sugar  1  cau  grated  pineapple  or 

Juice  3  lemons  1  pineapple  shredded 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  fifteen  minutes ; 
add  pineapple  and  lemon  juice ;  cool,  strain,  add  ice-water, 
and  freeze  to  a  mush,  using  equal  parts  ice  and  salt.  If 
fresh  fruit  is  used,  more  sugar  will  be  required. 

Pineapple  Sorbet 

2  cups  water  1}4  cups  orange  juice 

2  cups  sugar  3^  cup  lemon  juice 

1  can  grated  pineapple  or  •  1  quart  Appollinaris 

1  pineapple  shredded 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Pineapple  Frappe. 

'  Sicilian  Sorbet 

1  can  peaches  2  cups  orange  juice 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Press  peaches  through  a  sieve,  add  sugar  and  fruit  juices. 
Freeze  and  serve. 

Italian  Sorbet 
4  cups  water  1}4  cups  grape  fruit  juice 

2  cups  sugar  }4  cup  lemon  juice 
1)4  cups  orange  juice                ^  cup  wine 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Pineapple  Frappe. 

Apricot  Sorbet 

1  can  apricots  J4  cup  wine 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

1  pint  cream 

Drain  apricots,  and  add  to  syrup  the  pulp  rubbed  through 
a  sieve.  Add  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon  juice.  Freeze  to  a 
mush,  then  fold  in  the  whip  obtained  from  cream.  Let  stand 
one  and  one-half  hours,  and  serve  in  glasses. 


ICES,  lOB  CBBAMS,  Era  489 

Cadi  Frapp6 
White  1  egg  J4  cup  ground  coffee 

)4  cup  cold  water  4  cups  boiling  water 

,  1  cup  sugar 

Beat  white  of  egg  slightly,  add  cold  water,  and  mix  with 
coffee ;  turn  into  scalded  coffee-pot,  add  boiling  water,  and 
let  boil  one  minute ;  place  on  back  of  range  ten  minutes ; 
strain,  add  sugar,  cool,  and  freeze  same  as  Pineapple 
Frappe.  Serve  in  frappe  glasses,  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored. 

Cranberry  Frapp^ 

1  quart  cranberries  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  water  Juice  2  lemons 

Cook  cranberries  and  water  eight  minutes ;  then  force 
through  a  sieve.  Add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  and  freeze 
to  a  mush,  using  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt. 

Grape  Frapp^ 

4  cups  water  2  cups  grape  juice 

2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  orange  juice 

^  cup  lemon  juice 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Pineapple  Frappd 

Pomona  Frapp^ 
1J4  cups  sugar  1  quart  sweet  cider 

4  cups  water  2  cups  orange  juice 

^  cup  lemon  juice 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  twenty  minutes. 
Add  cider,  orange  juice,  and  lemon  juice.  Cool,  strain,  and 
freeze  to  a  mush. 

Clam  Frapp^ 
20  clams  )^  cup  cold  water 

Wash  clams  thoroughly,  changing  water  several  times ; 
put  in  stewpan  with  cold  water,  cover  closely,  and  steam 
until  ahells  open.  Strain  the  liquor,  cool,  and  freeze  to  » 
muBh. 


440  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Frozen  Cranberries 

4  cups  cranberries  2^  cups  sugar 

1}^  cups  boiling  water 

Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries,  add  water  and  sugar, 
and  cook  ten  minutes,  skimming  during  the  cooking.  Rub 
through  a  sieve,  cool,  and  pour  into  one-pound  baking- 
powder  boxes.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and 
let  stand  four  hours.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  mixture  to 
fill  two  boxes,  add  water  to  make  up  the  desired  quantity. 
Serve  as  a  substitute  for  cranberry  sauce  or  jelly. 

Frozen  Apricots 

1  can  apricots  1}^  cups  sugar 

Water 

Drain  apricots,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  To  the  syrup 
add  enough  water  to  make  four  cups,  and  cook  with  sugar 
five  minutes  ;  strain,  add  apricots,  cool,  and  freeze.  Peaches 
may  be  used  instead  of  apricots.  To  make  a  richer  dessert, 
add  the  whip  from  two  cups  cream  when  frozen  to  a  mush, 
and  continue  freezing. 

Pineapple  Cream 

2  cups  water  1  can  grated  pineapple 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  cream 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  fifteen  minutes ; 
strain,  cool,  add  pineapple,  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Fold 
in  whip  from  cream ;  let  stand  thirty  minutes  before  serving. 
Serve  in  frappe  glasses  and  garnish  with  candied  pineapple. 

Cardinal  Punch 

4  cups  water  3^  cup  lemon  juice 

2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  brandy 
^  cup  orange  juice  ^  cup  Cura^oa 

>^  cup  tea  infusion 

Make  syrup  as  for  Lemon  Ice,  add  fruit  juice  and  tea, 
freeze  to  a  mush ;  add  strong  liquors  and  continue  freezing 
Serve  in  frappd  glasses. 


ICES,   ICE  CREAMS,  ETC.  441 

Punch  Hollandaise 

4  cups  water  Rind  one  lemon 

1%  cups  sugar  1  can  grated  pineapple 

^  cup  lemon  juice  ^  cup  brandy 

2  tablespoons  gin 

Cook  sugar,  water,  and  lemon  rind  fifteen  minutes,  add 
lemon  juice  and  pineapple,  cool,  strain,  freeze  to  a  mush,  add 
strong  liquors,  and  continue  freezing.  Serve  in  f rappe  glasses 
on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

Victoria  Punch 

33^  cups  water  Grated  rind  two  oranges 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  angelica  wine 

}4  cup  lemon  juice  1  cup  cider 

}4  cup  orange  juice  1}^  tablespoons  gin 

Prepare  same  as  Cardinal  Punch ;  strain  before  freezing,  to 
remove  orange  rind. 

Lenox  Punch 

2  cups  water  1  cup  orange  juice 

^  cup  sugar  }^  cup  lemon  juice 

^  tumbler  currant  jelly  2  bottles  ginger  ale 

Ice  }{  cup  brandy 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  jelly,  and,  as  soon  as  dissolved,  add  a  piece  of  ice  to 
cool  mixture ;  then  add  fruit  juices,  ale,  and  brandy.  Color 
red,  freeze  to  a  mush,  serve  in  glasses,  and  insert  in  each 
glass  a  small  sprig  of  holly  with  berries. 

German  Punch 

2  cups  water  1  cup  sugar 

1^  cups  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  lemon 

3  apples,  cored,  pared,  and  juice 

chopped  Piece  ginger  root 

3  tablespoons  Maraschino 

Mix  ingredients,  except  cordial,  and  cook  thirty-five  min- 
utes. Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  Maraschino,  and  freeze  to  a 
mush. 


M2  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Xiondon  Sherbet 
2  cups  sugar  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  cups  water  1  cup  fruit  syrup 

^  cup  seeded  and  finely  cut      ^  grated  nutmeg 
raisins  ^  cup  port  wine 

^  cup  orange  juice  Whites  3  eggs 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar  ten  minutes ;  pour 
over  raisins,  cool,  and  add  fruit  syrup  and  nutmeg ;  freeze 
to  a  mush,  then  add  wine  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and 
continue  freezing.  Serve  in  glasses.  Fruit  syrup  may  be 
used  which  has  been  left  from  canned  peaches,  pears,  or 
strawberries. 

Roman  Punch 
4  cups  water  }4  cup  orange  juice 

2  cups  sugar  }4  cup  tea  infusion 

)4  cup  lemon  juice  ^  cup  rum 

Prepare  and  freeze  same  as  Cardinal  Punch. 

Coup  Sicilienne 

1  shredded  pineapple        2  tablespoons  Maraschino 
3  oranges  (pulp)  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

3  bananas  sliced  Few  grains  salt 

Powdered  sugar 

Mix  ingredients,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  chill.  Serve  in 
champagne  glasses  having  glasses  two-thirds  full.  Cover 
fruit  to  fill  glasses  with  Strawberry  Ice  II.  and  garnish  with 
strawberries  and  angelica. 

Coup  a  I'Ananas 

Cut  canned  sliced  pineapple  in  pieces,  pour  over  pineapple 
syrup  to  which  is  added  Orange  Curacoa,  allowing  one-half 
as  much  syrup  as  fruit,  cover  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Fill 
champagne  glasses  one-third  full,  add  vanilla  ice  cream  to 
fill  glasses,  and  garnish  with  candied  cherries  and  candied 
pineapple  cut  in  pieces. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  I  (Philadelphia) 

1  quart  thin  cream  ^  cup  sugar 

li^  tablespoons  vanilla 

Mix  ingredienUy  and  freeze. 


Coup  Siciliekne.     Coup  a  l'Akakas.  —  Page  44^- 


Coffee  Ice  Cream  served  in  half  of  Cantaloupe.  —  Page  44 
Vakilla  Ice  Cream  served  in  half  of  Cantaloupe  with 
Fruit  Garnish.  —  Page  44^' 


BoMBE  Glacee.  —  Page  4^2. 


■     ^  iiri  ;['iiiiMiiipTOg#|j',u|ii.r '       fj 


L 


J  UKJKJET  IcK  Cr£Am  WITH  Peaches.  —  Page 


ICES,  ICE  CBEAMS,   ETC.  443 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  qaart  thin  cream 

2  tablespoons  vanilla 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  and  salt,  add  eg^  slightly  beaten,  and 
milk  gradually  ;  cook  over  hot  water  twenty  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  at  first ;  should  custard  have  curdled  appearance, 
it  will  disappear  in  freezing.  When  cool,  add  cream  and 
flavoring ;  strain  and  freeze. 

Chocolate  Sauce  I 

(To  be  served  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream) 
13^2  cups  water  1  tablespoon  arrowroot 

^  cup  sugar  }£  ^^V  cold  water 

6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate        Few  grains  salt 


teaspoon  vanilla 


Boil  water  and  sugar  five  minutes.  Mix  chocolate  with 
arrowroot  to  which  water  has  been  added.  Combine  mix- 
tures, add  salt,  and  boil  three  minutes.  Flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  serve  hot. 

Chocolate  Sauce  II 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate        1  tablespoon  butter 
1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  boiling  water 

}^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate ;  add  butter,  and  pour  on  gradually  water. 
Bring  to  boiling-point,  add  sugar,  and  let  boil  five  minutes, 
cool  slightly,  and  add  vanilla. 

Coffee  Sauce 

(To  be  served  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream) 
1)^  cups  milk  }4  cup  sugar 

}4  cup  ground  coffee  ^  tablespoon  arrowroot 

Few  grains  salt 

Scald  milk  with  coffee,  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Mix 
remaining  ingredients,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  infu- 
sion which  has  been  strained.  Cook  five  minutes,  and  serve 
hot. 


444  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  Croquettes 

Shape  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  in  individual  moulds,  roll  in 
macaroon  dust  made  by  pounding  and  sifting  dry  macaroons. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  I 

1  quart  thin  cream  1^  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  or 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  prepared  cocoa 
Few  grains  salt  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate,  and  dilute  with  hot  water  to  pour  easily, 
add  to  cream;  then  add  sugar,  salt,  and  flavoring,  and 
freeze. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  II 

Use  recipe  for  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II.  Melt  two  squares 
Baker's  chocolate,  by  placing  in  a  small  saucepan  set  in  a 
larger  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  pour  hot  custard  slowly 
on  chocolate ;  then  cool  before  adding  cream. 

Stra-wberry  Ice  Cream  I 

3  gjnts  thin  cream  2  cups  sugar 

2  l?]^es  berries  Few  grains  salt 

Wash  and  hull  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover,  and  let 
stand '^wo  hours.  Mash,  and  squeeze  through  cheese-cloth; 
then  add  salt.  Freeze  cream  to  the  consistency  of  a  mush, 
add  gradually  fruit  juice,  and  finish  freezing.  Rich  Jersey 
milk  may  be  substituted  for  cream. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  II 

8  pints  thin  cream  1^  cups  sugar 

2  boxes  strawberries  2  cups  milk 

Ij^  tablespoons  arrowroot 

Wash  and  hull  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  let  stand 
one  hour,  mash,  and  rub  through  strainer.  Scald  one 
and  one-half  cups  milk;  dilute  arrowroot  with  remaining 
milk,  add  to  hot  milk,  and  cook  ten  minutes  in  double 
boiler;  cool,  add  cream,  freeze  to  a  mush,  add  fruit,  and 
finish  freezing. 


ICES,   ICE  CREAMS,  ETC.  446 


Orange  Ice  Cream 

1  cup  heavy  cream  2  cups  orange  juice 

1  cup  thin  cream  Sugar 

Add  cream  slowly  to  orange  juice,  sweeten  to  taste,  and 
freeze.  Serve  with  canned  strawberries  or  fresh  fruit 
mashed  and  sweetened. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream 

3  pints  cream  %  ^^P  sugar 

1  can  grated  pineapple 

Add  pineapple  to  cream,  let  stand  thirty  minutes  ;  strain, 
add  sugar,  and  freeze. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  1^  cups  sugar 

\%,  cups  milk  34  teaspoon  salt 

3^  cup  Mocha  coffee  Yolks  4  eggs 

Scald  milk  with  coffee,  add  one  cup  sugar ;  mix  egg  j'olks 
slightly  beaten  with  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  and  salt;  combine 
mixtures,  cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened,  add'^e  cup 
cream,  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  twenty-five  Liinutes  ; 
cool,  add  remaining  cream,  and  strain  through  doubk  cheese- 
cloth; freeze.  Coffee  Ice  Cream  may  be  served  with  Maras- 
chino cherries  or  in  halves  of  cantaloupes. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  1  Q^g% 

2  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 
13^  cups  sugar  )^  teaspoon  salt 

13^  tablespoons  vanilla 

Prepare  same  as  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II,  using  one-half 
sugar  in  custard ;  remaining  half  caramelize,  and  add  slowly 
to  hot  custard.     See  Caramelization  of  Sugar,  page  586. 

Burnt  Almond  Ice  Cream 

It  is  made  same  as  Caramel  Ice  Cream,  with  the  addition 
of  one  cup  Snely  chopped  blanched  almonds. 


446  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 


Brown  Bread  Ice  Cream 

3  pints  cream  ^  cup  sugar 

IX  cups  dried  brown  %  teaspoon  salt 

bread  crumbs 

Soak  crumbs  in  one  quart  cream,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes, 
rub  through  sieve,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  remaining  cream ; 
then  freeze. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream 

Make  custard  as  for  Vanillla  Ice  Cream  II,  add  one  quart 
cream,  one  tablespoon  vanilla,  and  one  cup  hickory  nut  or 
English  walnut  meats  finely  chopped. 

Burnt  "Walnut  Bisque 

2  cups  scalded  milk  %  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 
Yolks  3  eggs  1  cup  heavy  cream 

1  cup  sugar  %  tablespoon  vanilla 

Few  grains  salt 

Make  custard  of  milk,  eggs,  one-third  of  the  sugar,  and 
salt.  Caramelize  remaining  sugar,  add  nut  meats,  and  turn 
into  a  slightly  buttered  pan.  Cool,  pound,  and  pass  through 
a  puree  strainer.  Add  to  custard,  cool,  then  add  one  cup 
heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  vanilla.  Freeze  and 
mould. 

Praline  Ice  Cream 

3  pints  cream  1  cup  Jordan  almonds 
\y^  cups  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Blanch  almonds  cut  in  pieces  crosswise,  and  bake  in  a 
shallow  pan  until  well  browned,  shaking  pan  frequently ; 
then  finely  chop.  Caramelize  one-half  of  the  sugar,  and  add 
slowly  to  two  cups  of  the  cream  scalded.  As  soon  as  sugar 
is  melted,  add  nuts,  remaining  sugar,  and  salt.  Cool,  add 
remaining  cream,  and  freeze.  A  few  grains  salt  is  always  an 
improvement  to  any  ice  cream  mixture. 


ICES,  ICE  CKEAMS,  ETO.  447 

Macaroon  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  macaroons  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Dry,  pound,  and  measure  macaroons  ;  add  to  cream,  sugar, 
and  vanilla,  then  freeze. 

Banana  Ice  Cream 
1  quart  cream  1%  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

4  bananas  1  cup  sugar 

A  few  grains  salt 

Remove  skins  and  scrape  bananas,  then  force  through 
a  sieve  ;   add  remaining  ingredients  ;  then  freeze. 

Ginger  Ice  Cream 

To  recipe  for  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II,  using  one-half 
quantity  vanilla,  add  one-half  cup  Canton  ginger  cut  in 
small  pieces,  three  tablespoons  ginger  syrup,  and  two  table- 
spoons Sherry  wine  ;  then  freeze. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream 

prepare  same  as  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  II,  using  for  flavoring 
one  tablespoon  vanilla  and  one  teaspoon  almond  extract; 
color  with  Burnett's  Leaf  Green. 

Pistachio  Bisque 

To  Pistachio  Ice  Cream  add  one-half  cup  each  of  pounded 
macaroons,  chopped  almonds,  and  peanuts.  Mould,  and 
serve  with  or  without  Claret  Sauce. 

Fig  Ice  Cream 

3  cups  milk  1  lb.  figs,  finely  chopped 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  heavy  cream 

Yolks  5  eggs  Whites  5  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  brandy 

Make  custard  of  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  milk ;  strain, 
add  figs,  cool,  and  flavor.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff  and  he«vy  crehm  be&ten  until  stiff ;  freeze  and  mould. 


448  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Junket  Ice  Cream  with  Peaches 

4  cups  lukewarm  milk  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

1  cup  heavy  cream  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

13=^  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

%  teaspoon  salt  Green  Coloring 

\}4  Junket  Tablets  1  can  peaches 

Mix  first  four  ingredients,  and  add  junket  tablets 
dissolved  in  cold  water.  Turn  into  a  pudding-dish  and 
let  stand  until  set.  Add  flavoring  and  coloring.  Freeze, 
mould,  and  serve  garnished  with  halves  of  peaches, 
filling  cavities  with  halves  of  blanched  almonds.  Turn 
peaches  into  a  saucepan,  add  one-third  cup  sugar,  and 
cook  slowly  until  syrup  is  thick.  Cool  before  garnishing 
ice  cream. 

Violet  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  %  cup  Yvette  Cordial 

^  cup  sugar  1  small  bunch  violets 

Few  grains  salt  Violet  coloring 

Mix  first  four  ingredients.  Remove  stems  from  violets, 
and  pound  violets  in  a  mortar  until  well  macerated,  then 
strain  through  cheese-cloth.  Add  extract  to  first  mixture ; 
oolor,  freeze,  and  mould.  Serve  garnished  with  fresh  or 
eandied  violets  ;  the  light  purple  cultivated  violets  should  be 
used  and  the  result  will  be  most  gratifying. 

Neapolitan  or  Harlequin  Ice  Cream 
Two  kinds  of  ice  cream  and  an  ice  moulded  in  a  brick. 

Baked  Alaska 

Whites  6  eggs  2  quart  brick  of  ice  cream 

6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  Thin  sheet  sponge  cake 

Make  meringue  of  eggs  and  sugar  as  in  Meringue  I, 
cover  a  board  with  white  paper,  lay  on  sponge  cake,  turn 
ice  cream  on  cake  (which  should  extend  one-half  inch  be- 
yond cream),  cover  with  meringue,  and  spread  smoothly. 
Place  on  oven  grate  and  brown  quickly  in  hot  oven.  The 
board,  paper,  cake,  and  meringue  are  poor  conductors  of 


ICES,   ICB  CREAMS,   ETC.  449 

heat,  and  prevent  the  cream  from  melting.     Slip  from  paper 
on  ice  cream  platter. 

Pudding  Glac6 

2  cups  milk  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  raisins  1  quart  thin  cream 

1  cup  sugar  %  ^^V  almonds 

1  Q^^  %  cup  candied  pineapple 

1  tablespoon  flour  3^  cup  Canton  ginger 

3  tablespoons  wine 

Scald  raisins  in  milk  fifteen  minutes,  strain,  make  custard 
of  milk,  egg,  sugar,  flour,  and  salt ;  strain,  cool,  add  pine- 
apple, ginger  cut  in  small  pieces,  nuts  finely  chopped, 
wine,  and  cream  ;  then  freeze.  The  raisins  should  be  rinsed 
and  saved  for  a  pudding. 

Frozen  Pudding  I 

2)^  cups  milk  1  cup  heavy  cream 

1  cup  sugar  >^  cup  rum 

%  teaspoonful  salt  1  cup  candied  fruit,  cherries,  pine- 

2  eggs  apples,  pears,  and  apricots 

Cut  fruit  in  small  pieces,  and  soak  two  or  three  hours 
in  brandy  to  cover,  which  prevents  fruit  from  freezing; 
make  a  custard  of  milk,  sugar,  salt,  and  eggs;  strain,  cool, 
add  cream  and  rum,  then  freeze.  Fill  a  brick  mould  with 
alternate  layers  of  the  cream  and  fruit;  pack  in  salt  and 
ice  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

Frozen  Pudding  II 

1  quart  cream  ^  cup  rum 

^  cup  sugar  1  cup  candied  fruit 

8  lady  fingers 

Cut  fruit  in  pieces,  and  soak  several  hours  in  brandy  to 
cover.  Mix  cream,  sugar,  and  rum,  then  freeze.  Line  a 
two-quart  melon  mould  with  lady  fingers,  crust  side  down ; 
fill  with  alternate  layers  of  the  cream  and  fruit,  cover,  pack 
in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Brandied  peaches 
cut  in  pieces,  with  some  of  their  syrup  added,  greatly 
improve  the  pudding. 

St 


460  BOSTON  OOOKING-SCHOOli  COOK  BOOK 

Frosen  Tom  and  Jerry 

2  cups  milk  3^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  sugar  2%  cups  cream 

Yolks  6  eggs  2  tablespoons  rum 

1  tablespoon  brandy 

Make  a  custard  of  first  four  ingredients;  strain,  cool,  add 
cream,  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Add  rum  and  brandy,  and 
finish  the  freezing. 

University  Pudding 

Prepare  same  as  Frozen  Tom  and  Jerry.  Freeze  to  a  mush, 
add  one  cup  mixed  fruit  which  has  been  soaked  in  brandy 
to  cover  for  twelve  hours,  using  glace  cherries.  Sultana 
raisins,  sliced  citron,  and  candied  pineapple;  then  finish 
freezing.  Serve  in  small  beer  jugs,  and  garnish  with  cream, 
whipped,  sweetened,  and  flavored. 

Covington  Cream 

%  cup  sugar  ^         i^  cup  rum 

%  cup  Formosa  tea  infusion  1  quart  cream 

Mix  ingredients,  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Serve  in  frappe 
glasses. 

Delmonico  Ice  Crean^  with  Angel  Food 

2  cups  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  sugar  2)^  cups  thin  cream 

Yolks  7  eggs  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  lemon 

Make  custard  of  milk,  sugar,  eggs,  and  salt;  cool,  strain, 
and  flavor ;  whip  cream,  remove  whip  ;  there  should  be  two 
quarts;  add  to  custard,  and  freeze.  Serve  plain  or  with 
Angel  Food. 

Angel  Food 

Whites  3  eggs  -  1  quart  cream  whip 

}^  cup  powdered  sugar  \%  teaspoons  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  until  stiff,  fold  in  sugar,  cream  whip,  and 
flavoring;  line  a  mould  with  Delmonico  Ice  Cream,  fill  with 
the  mixture,  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  two 


]tGES,  ICE  CBEAMS,  ETC.  451 

Manhattan  Pudding 

1%  cups  orange  juice  1  pint  heavy  cream 

1^  cup  lemon  juice  V^  cup  powdered  sugar 

Sugar  >^  tablespoon  vauilla 

^  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

Mix  fruit  juices  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Turn  mixture  in 
brick  mould.  Whip  cream,  and  add  sugar,  vanilla,  and  nut 
meats ;  pour  over  the  first  mixture  to  overflow  mould  ;  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  fit  on  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and 
let  stand  three  hours. 

Sultana  Roll  -with  Claret  Sauce 

Line  one-pound  baking-powder  boxes  with  Pistachio  Ice 
Cream ;  sprinkle  with  Sultana  raisins  which  have  been  soaked 
one  hour  in  brandy ;  fill  centres  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream  or 
whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla ;  cover 
with  Pistachio  Ice  Cream;  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let 
stand  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Claret  Sauce 
1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  water 

^  cup  claret 

Boil  sugar  and  water  eight  minutes;  cool  slightly,  and 
add  claret. 

Angel  Parfait 
1  cup  sugar  Whites  3  eggs 

%  cup  water  1  pint  heavy  cream 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped 
from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  slowly  on  the  beaten  whites  of 
eggs,  and  continue  the  beating  until  mixture  is  cool.  Add 
cream  beaten  until  stiff,  and  vanilla ;  then  freeze. 

Caf^  Parfait 

1  cup  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  Mocha  coffee  1  cup  sugar 

Yolks  3  eggs  3  cups  thin  cream 

Scald  milk  ¥rith  coffee,  and  add  one-half  the  sugar ;  with- 
out Btrainlng,  use  thia  mixture  for  makiux  eustard,  with 


452  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

eggs,  salt,  and  remainiog  sugar ;  add  one  cup  cream  and  let 
stand  thirty  minutes ;  cool,  strain  through  double  cheese- 
cloth, add  remaining  cream,  and  freeze.  Line  a  mould,  fill 
with  Italian  Meringue,  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using 
two  parts  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt,  and  let  stand 
three  hours. 

Italian  Meringue 

%  cup  sugar  Whites  3  eggs 

)^  cup  water  1  cup  thin  cream 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  or  y^  tablespoon  vanilla 
y^  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water ;  pour  slowly  on 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  continue  beating.  Place  in  pan 
of  ice- water,  and  beat  until  cold ;  dissolve  gelatine  in  small 
quantity  boiling  water;  strain  into  mixture;  whip  cream, 
fold  in  whip,  and  flavor. 

Bombe  Glac^e 

Line  a  mould  with  sherbet  or  water  ice;  fill  with  ice 
cream  or  thin  Charlotte  Russe  mixture ;  cover,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  The  mould  may  be  lined 
with  ice  cream.  Pomegranate  or  Raspberry  Ice  and  Vanilla 
or  Macaroon  Ice  Cream  make  a  good  combination. 

Noisette  Bomb 

Strawberry  Ice  I  %  cup  hot  caramel  syrup 

%  cup  sugar  Yolks  4  eggs 

y^  cup  chopped  blanched  \%  cups  heavy  cream 

filberts  %  tablespoon  vanilla 

Few  grains  salt 

Caramelize  sugar,  add  nut  meats,  turn  into  a  buttered 
pan,  cool,  then  pound  in  mortar  and  put  through  a  puree 
strainer.  Beat  egg-  yolks  until  thick,  add  gradually  caramel 
syrup,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens ; 
then  beat  until  cold.  Fold  in  cream  beaten  until  stiff.  Then 
add  prepared  nut  meats,  vanilla,  and  salt.  Line  melon 
mould  with  ice,  turn  in  mixture,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and 
let  stand  three  hours. 


ICES,   ICE  CREAMS,  ETC.  46S 

Nesselrode  Pudding 
8  cups  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

1)^  cups  sugar  1  pint  thin  cream 

Yolks  5  eggs  )^  cup  pineapple  syrup 

1)4,  cups  prepared  French  chestnuts 

Make  custard  of  first  four  ingredients,  strain,  cool,  add 
cream,  pineapple  syrup,  and  chestnuts;  then  freeze.  To 
prepare  chestnuts,  shell,  cook  in  boiling  water  until  soft, 
and  force  through  a  strainer.  Line  a  two-quart  melon  mould 
with  part  of  mixture ;  to  remainder  add  one-half  cup  candied 
fruit  cut  in  small  pieces,  one-quarter  cup  Sultana  raisins, 
and  eight  chestnuts  broken  in  pieces,  first  soaked  several 
hours  in  Maraschino  syrup.  Fill  mould,  cover,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  Maraschino  syrup. 

Pistachio  Fruit  Ice  Cream  i 

3  cups  milk  1)^  cups  chestnut  purde 

\%  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Yolks  5  eggs  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

%  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  glace  fruits 

1  pint  heavy  cream  Maraschino 

Green  coloring 
Make  a  custard  of  first  four  ingredients,  strain,  cool ;  add 
cream,  chestnut  puree,  flavoring,  and  glace  fruit  cut  in  pieces 
and  previously  soaked  in  Maraschino  three  hours.  Color 
with  leaf  green;  freeze,  mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and 
let  stand  two  hours.     Serve  with  ,^m^ 

Fruit  Sauce.  Drain  syrup  from  a  pint  jar  oippRbed 
strawberry,  raspberry,  or  pineapple,  heat  to  boiling-point, 
thicken  slightly  with  arrowroot,  and  color  with  fruit  red. 

Nougat  Ice  Cream 

3  cups  milk  Whites  5  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup,  each,  pistachio,  filbert,  Eng- 

Yolks  5  eggs  lish  walnut,  and  almond  meats 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

V4.  cups  heavy  cream  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Make  a  custard  of  first  four  ingredients,  strain,  and  cool. 
Add  heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff*,  whites  of  eggs  beaten 


454  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

until  stifif,  nut  meats  finely  chopped,  and   flavoring;    then 
freeze. 

Orange  Pekoe  Ice  Cream 

2  cups  milk  Yolks  4  eggs 

3  tablespoons  Orange  Pekoe  tea         34  teaspoon  salt 

1^  cups  sugar  Grated  rind  1  orange 

1  pint  heavy  cream 

Scald  milk  to  which  tea  had  been  added,  and  let  stand 
five  minutes.  Add  sugar,  and  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten,  and 
cook  until  mixture  thickens.  Strain,  add  remaining  ingre- 
dients, freeze,  and  mould.  Serve  garnished  with  Candied 
Orange  Peel  (p.  547). 

Orange  Delicious 
2  cups  sugar  1  cup  cream 

1  cup  water  Yolks  two  eggs 

2  cups  orange  juice  1  cup  heavy  cream 

^  cup  shredded  candied  orange  peel 

Boil  sugar  and  water  eight  minutes,  then  add  orange  juice. 
Scald  cream,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  and  cook  over  hot  water 
until  mixture  thickens.  Cool,  add  to  first  mixture  with 
heavy  cream  beaten  stiff.  Freeze  ;  when  nearly  frozen,  add 
orange  peel.  Line  a  melon  mould  with  Orange  Ice,  fill  with 
Orange  Delicious,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  one 
and  one-half  hours. 

Stra-wberry  Mousse 
1  quart  thin  cream  )^  box  gelatine  (scant)  or 

1  box  strawberries  1)^  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

3  tablespoons  hot  water 

Wash  and  hull  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  let  stand 
one  hour;  mash,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve;  add  gelatine 
soaked  in  cold  and  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Set  in  pan 
of  ice-water  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  then  fold  in 
whip  from  cream,  put  in  mould,  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice, 
and  let  stand  four  hours.  Raspberries  may  be  used  in  place 
of  strawberries. 

Coffee  Mousse 

Make  same  as  Strawberry  Mousse,  using  one  cup  boiled 
coffee  in  place  of  fruit  juice. 


ICES,   ICE  CREAMS,   ETOo  455 

Pineapple  Mousse 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine    2  tablespoons  lemon  Juice 
^  cup  cold  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  pineapple  syrup  1  quart  cream 

Heat  one  can  pineapple,  and  drain.  To  one  cup  of  the 
syrup,  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water,  lemon  juice,  and 
sugar.  Strain  and  cool.  As  mixture  thickens,  fold  in  the 
whip  from  cream.  Mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let 
stand  four  hours. 

Chocolate  Mousse 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate     3  tablespoons  boiling  water 
%  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  cream  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

X  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine   1  quart  cream 

Melt  chocolate,  add  powdered  sugar,  and  gradually  one 
cup  cream.  Stir  over  fire  until  boiling-point  is  reached,  then 
add  gelatine  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  sugar,  and  vanilla. 
Strain  mixture  into  a  bowl,  set  in  a  pan  of  ice-water,  stir 
constantly  until  mixture  thickens,  then  fold  in  the  whip  from 
remaining  cream.  Mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let 
stand  four  hours. 

Maple  Farfait 

4  eggs  1  cup  hot  maple  syrup 

1  pint  thick  cream 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  and  pour  on  slowly  maple  syrup.  Cook 
until  mixture  thickens,  cool,  and  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff. 
Mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  three  hours. 

Mousse  Marron 

1  quart  vanilla  ice  cream  1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine 

%  cup  sugar  \%  cups  prepared  French  chestnuts 

%  cup  water  1  pint  cream 

Whites  two  eggs  %  tablespoon  vanilla 

Cook  sugar  and  water  five  minutes,  pour  on  to  beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  dissolve  gelatine  in  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons boiling  water,  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Set  in  a  pan 
of  ice-water,  and  stir  until  cold ;  add  chestnuts,  and  fold  in 
whip  from  cream  and  yanilla.     Line  a  mould  with  ice  cream, 


456  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  fill  with  mixture ;  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let 
stand  three  hours. 

Cardinal  Mousse,  V7ith  Iced  Maderia  Sauce 

Line  a  mould  with  Pomegranate  Ice ;  fill  with  Italian 
Meringue  made  of  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup 
hot  water,  whites  two  eggs,  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
granulated  *  gelatine  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  boiling 
water.  Beat  until  cold^  and  fold  in  whip  from  two  cups 
cream ;  flavor  with  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  cover,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  and  let  stand  three  hours. 

Iced  Madeira  Sauce 

^  cup  orange  juice  }^  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1  cup  boiling  water 

}4  cup  Madeira  wine  Whites  2  eggs 

Freeze  fruit  juice  and  wine  ;  boil  sugar  and  water,  pour  on 
slowly  to  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  set  in  pan  of  salted  ice-water, 
and  stir  until  cold.     Add  to  frozen  mixture. 

Cocoanut  Naples,  Sauterne  Sauce 
Shape  vanilla  ice  cream  in  individual  moulds,  and  roll  in 
shredded  cocoanut ;  serve  with 

Sauterne  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  Sauterne 

^  cup  water  Green  coloring 

Make  same  as  Claret  Sauce,  and  color  with  leaf  green. 

Ice  k  la  Margot 

Serve  vanilla  ice  cream  in  champagne  glasses.  Cover  ice 
cream  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  flavored  with  pistachio, 
and  tinted  very  light  green.  Garnish  with  pistachio  nuts  or 
Malaga  grapes  cut-  in  halves. 

Coup  auz  Marrons 

Break  marron  glace  in  pieces,  flavor  with  rum,  cover,  and 
let  stand  one  hour.  Put  in  champagne  glasses,  allowing  one 
and  one-half  marrons  to  each  glass,  cover  with  vanilla  ice 


ICES,  ICE   CREAMS,    ETC.  457 

cream,   and   garnish  with  whipped   cream,   sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla,  and  candied  rose  leaves. 

Plombifere  Glac^ 

Cover  the  bottom  of  small  paper  cases  with  vanilla  ice 
cream,  sprinkle  ice  cream  with  marron  glace  broken  in  pieces, 
arrange  lady  fingers  at  equal  distances,  and  allow  them  to 
extend  one  inch  above  cases.  Pile  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored,  in  the  centre  and  garnish  with  marron  glace 
and  candied  violets  or  glace  cherries. 

Demi-glace  aux  Fraises 

Line  a  brick  mould  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  put  in  layer  of 
lady  fingers,  and  fill  the  centre  with  preserved  strawberries 
or  large  fresh  fruit  cut  in  halves ;  cover  with  ice  cream,  pack 
in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  one  hour.  For  ice  cream,  make 
custard  of  two  and  one-half  cups  milk,  yolks  four  eggs,  one 
cup  sugar,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt ;  strain,  cool,  add 
one  cup  heavy  cream  and  one  tablespoon  vanilla;  then 
freeze. 

Mazarine 

Bake  Brioche  in  a  Charlotte  Russe  mould  or  individual 
tins,  cool,  cut  a  slice  from  top  of  cake  or  cakes,  and  remove 
centre  or  centres,  leaving  a  wall  or  walls  one-half  inch  thick. 
Fill  with  rich  Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  invert  on  serving  dish, 
and  pour  over 

Apricot  Marmalade.  Drain  one  can  apricots  and  force 
the  fruit  through  a  strainer.  Cook  syrup  until  sufficiently 
reduced  to  add  to  fruit,  and  make  of  consistency  of  mar- 
malade. Add  a  few  drops  lemon  juice  and  sugar  if  neces- 
sary. Decorate  top  with  halves  of  apricots,  glace  cherries, 
and  whipped  cream. 

Flowering  Ice  Cream 

Line  two  and  one-half  inch  flower-pots  with  paraflSne  paper. 
Fill  with  ice  cream,  cover  cream  with  grated  vanilla  chocolate 
to  represent  earth,  and  insert  a  flower  in  each. 


468  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Concord  Cream 
1  pint  cream  Lemon  or  fresh  lime  juice 

1)^  cups  grape  juice  %  cup  heavy  cream 

y^  cup  sugar  Pistachio  nuts,  finely  chopped 

Mix  cream,  grape  juice,  and  sugar.  Add  lemon  or  lime 
juice  to  taste.  Freeze,  and  serve  in  glasses.  Garnish  with 
heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff,  sweetened,  and  flavored. 
Sprinkle  cream  with  nuts. 

German  Ice  Cream 

Mix  one  and  one- fourth  cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour, 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add  two  eggs  slightly  beaten 
and  two  cups  scalded  milk.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  mix- 
ture thickens,  then  add  two  squares  melted  chocolate,  and 
cool.  Add  three  cups  cream  and  one  tablespoon  vanilla. 
Strain  and  freeze.  Just  before  serving  add  three  cups 
zweiback  dried  and  broken  in  small  pieces. 

Frozen  Orange  SoufElfe 

\y^  cups  orange  juice  Xy^  teaspoons  granulated  gelatine 

\%  cups  sugar  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  2>^  cups  cream 

Yolks  5  eggs  Candied  orange  peel 

Pistachio  nuts 

Mix  fruit  juice,  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Cook  over 
boiling  water  until  mixture  thickens ;  then  add  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water.  Cool,  freeze  to  a  mush,  add  whip 
from  cream,  and  continue  freezing.  Mould,  and  serve  gar- 
nished with  candied  orange  peel  and  pistachio  nuts. 

Biscuit  Tortoni  in  Boxes 

1  cup  dried  macaroons,  ^  cup  sugar 

finely  crushed  3^  cup  sherry 

2  cups  thin  cream  1  pint  heavy  cream 

Soak  macaroons  in  thin  cream  one  hour,  add  sugar,  wine, 
and  freeze  to  a  mush;  then  add  heavy  cream  beaten  stiff. 
Mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

Trim  lady  fingers,  arrange  on  plate  in  form  of  box. 
Keep  in  place  with  ribbon  one-half  inch  wide,  and  fasten  at 


ICES,  ICE  CREAMS,  ETC.  459 

one  corner  by  tying  ribbon  in  a  bow.  Garnish  opposite 
corner  with  flowers  of  same  color  as  ribbon.  Remove  ice 
cream  from  brick,  cut  a  slice  three-fourths  inch  thick,  and 
place  it  in  box. 

Frozen  Souffle  Glace 

4  eggs  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Grated  rind  1  lemon  %  cup  Madeira  wine 

%  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

%  cup  heavy  cream 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  ;  add  lemon  juice,  grated  rind, 
wine,  sugar,  and  salt;  cook  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  when  well 
mixed,  set  in  a  pan  of  ice-water  to  cool,  stirring  occasionally. 
Beat  cream  until  stiff,  and  add.  Fill  small  paper  cases  with 
mixture,  cover  with  macaroon  dust,  and  set  in  a  tin  mould 
with  tight-fitting  cover.  Pack  mould  in  salt  and  ice,  and  let 
stand  two  hours. 

Frozen  Plum  Pudding 

2  cups  milk  2)^  cups  cream 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  candied  fruit 

Yolks  6  eggs  )4,  cup  almonds,  blanched 

y^  teaspoon  salt  and  chopped 

^  cup  sherry  %  cup  Sultana  raisins 

%  cup  pounded  macaroons 

Make  custard  of  milk,  one-half  the  sugar,  ^g^  yolks,  and 
salt.  Caramelize  the  remaining  sugar  and  add.  Strain, 
cool,  add  remaining  ingredients,  freeze,  and  mould.  If  a 
baked  ice  cream  is  desired,  use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue, 
Baked  Alaska  (see  p.  448). 

Frozen  Charlotte  Glac6 

Mould  ice  cream  in  brick  form  or  one-half  pound  baking- 
powder  boxes.  Remove  from  mould  or  moulds,  and  surround 
with  lady  fingers,  trimmed  to  come  to  top  of  cream.  Cover 
top  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  and  pipe 
cream  between  lady  fingers.  Baking-powder  boxes  are  used 
when  individual  serrice  is  desired,  the  cream  being  cat  ia 
halves  crosswwe. 


460  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER   XXVII 
PASTRY 

PASTRY  cannot  be  easily  excluded  from  the  menu  of 
the  New  Englander.  Who  can  dream  of  a  Thanks- 
giving dinner  without  a  pie!  The  last  decade  has  done 
much  to  remove  pies  from  the  daily  bill  of  fare,  and  in 
their  place  are  found  delicate  puddings  and  seasonable 
fruits. 

If  pastry  is  to  be  served,  have  it  of  the  best,  —  light,  flaky, 
and  tender. 

To  pastry  belongs,  1st,  Puff  Paste  ;  2d,  Plain  Paste. 

Puff  paste,  which  to  many  seems  so  difficult  of  preparation, 
is  rarely  attempted  by  any  except  professionals.  As  a  mat- 
ter of  fact,  one  who  lias  never  handled  a  rolling-pin  is  less 
liable  to  fail,  under  the  guidance  of  a  good  teacher,  than  an 
old  cook,  who  finds  it  difficult  to  overcome  the  bad  habit  of 
using  too  much  force  in  rolling.  It  is  necessary  to  work 
rapidly  and  with  a  light  touch.  A  cold  room  is  of  great 
advantage. 

For  making  pastry,  pastry  flour  and  the  best  shortenings, 
thoroughly  chilled,  are  essential.  Its  lightness  depends  on 
the  amount  of  air  enclosed  and  expansion  of  that  air  in  bak- 
ing. The  flakiness  depends  upon  kind  and  amount  of 
shortening  used.  Lard  makes  more  tender  crust  than  but- 
ter, but  lacks  flavor  which  butter  gives.  Puff  paste  is 
usually  shortened  with  butter,  though  some  chefs  prefer 
beef  suet.  Eggs  and  ice  were  formerly  used,  but  are  not 
essentials. 

Butter  should  be  washed  if  pastry  is  to  be  of  the  best,  so 
as  to  remove  salt  and  buttermilk,  thus  making  it  of  a  waxy 
consistency,  easy  to  handle. 


Utensils  and  Mateuials  for  the  making  or  Puff  Paste. 
Page  46I. 


Calve  Tarts.  — Pa^«  479, 


Patties  garnished  with  pastry  rings  and  parsley.  —  Page  4-(^2. 


Ekolish  Miat  Ph.  —  Page  tX8, 


PASTRY  461 

Rules  for  "Washing  Butter.  Scald  and  chill  an  earthen 
bowl.  Heat  palms  of  hands  in  hot  water,  and  chill  in  cold 
water.  By  following  these  directions,  butter  will  not  adhere 
to  bowl  nor  hands.  Wash  butter  in  bowl  by  squeezing  with 
hands  until  soft  and  waxy,  placing  bowl  under  a  cold-water 
faucet  and  allowing  water  to  run.  A  small  amount  of  butter 
may  be  washed  by  using  a  wooden  spoon  in  place  of  the 
hands. 

For  rolling  paste,  use  a  smooth  wooden  board,  and  wooden 
rolling-pin  with  handles. 

Puff  paste  should  be  used  for  vol-au-vents,  patties,  ris- 
soles, bouchees,  cheese  straws,  tarts,  etc.  It  may  be  used 
for  rims  and  upper  crusts  of  pies,  but  never  for  lower  crusts. 
Plain  paste  may  be  used  where  pastry  is  needed,  except  for 
vol-au-vents  and  patties. 

Puff  Paste 

1  pound  butter        1  pound  pastry  floar  or  14  ozs.  bread  flour 

Cold  water 

Wash  the  butter,  pat  and  fold  until  no  water  flies.  Re- 
serve two  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  shape  remainder  into  a 
circular  piece  one-half  inch  thick,  and  put  on  floured  board. 
Work  two  tablespoons  of  butter  into  flour  with  the  tips  of 
fingers  of  the  right  hand.  Moisten  to  a  dough  with  cold 
water,  turn  on  slightly  floured  board,  and  knead  five  minutes. 
Cover  with  towel,  and  let  stand  five  minutes. 

Pat  and  roll  one-fourth  inch  thick,  keeping  paste  a  little 
wider  than  long,  and  corners  square.  If  this  cannot  be  ac- 
complished with  rolling-pin,  draw  into  shape  with  fingers. 
Place  butter  on  centre  of  lower  half  of  paste.  Cover  butter 
by  folding  upper  half  of  paste  over  it.  Press  edges  firmly, 
to  enclose  as  much  air  as  possible. 

Fold  right  side  of  paste  over  enclosed  butter,  the  left  side 
under  enclosed  butter.  Turn  paste  half-way  round,  cover, 
and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Pat,  and  roll  one-fourth  inch 
thick,  having  paste  longer  than  wide,  lifting  often  to  prevent 
paste  from  sticking,  and  dredging  board  slightly  with  flour 
when  necessary.  Fold  from  ends  towards  centre,  making 
three  layers.     Cover,  and  let  stand  five  minutes.     Repeat 


462  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

twice,  turniDg  paste  half-way  round  each  time  before  rolling. 
After  fourth  rolling,  fold  from  ends  to  centre,  and  double, 
making  four  layers.  Put  in  cold  place  to  chill ;  if  outside 
temperature  is  not  sufficiently  cold,  fold  paste  in  a  towel,  put 
in  a  dripping-pan,  and  place  between  dripping  pans  of  crushed 
ice.  If  paste  is  to  be  kept  for  several  days,  wrap  in  a  nap- 
kin, put  in  tin  pail  and  cover  tightly,  then  put  in  cold  place ; 
if  in  ice  box,  do  not  allow  pail  to  come  in  direct  contact  with 
ice. 

To  Bake  Puff  Paste 

Baking  of  puff  paste  requires  as  much  care  and  judgment 
as  making.  After  shaping,  chill  thoroughly  before  baking. 
Puff  paste  requires  hot  oven,  greatest  heat  coming  from  the 
bottom,  that  the  paste  may  properly  rise.  While  rising  it  is 
often  necessary  to  decrease  the  heat  by  lifting  covers  or 
opening  the  check  to  stove.  Turn  frequently,  that  it  may 
rise  evenly.  When  it  has  risen  its  full  height,  slip  a  pan 
under  the  sheet  on  which  paste  is  baking  to  prevent  burning 
on  the  bottom.  Puff  paste  should  be  baked  on  a  tin  sheet 
covered  with  a  double  thickness  of  brown  paper,  or  dripping- 
pan  may  be  used,  lined  with  brown  paper.  The  temperature 
for  baking  of  patties  should  be  about  the  same  as  for  raised 
biscuit ;  vol-au-vents  require  less  heat,  and  are  covered  for 
first  half-hour  to  prevent  scorching  on  top. 

Patty  Shells 

Koll  puff  paste  one-quarter  inch  thick,  shape  with  a  patty 
cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour ;  remove  centres  from  one-half 
the  rounds  with  smaller  cutter.  Brush  over  with  cold  water 
the  larger  pieces  near  the  edge,  and  fit  on  rings,  pressing 
lightly.  Place  in  towel  between  pans  of  crushed  ice,  and 
chill  until  paste  is  stiff;  if  cold  weather,  chill  out  of  doors. 
Place  on  iron  or  tin  sheet  covered  with  brown  paper,  and 
bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven.  The  shells  should  rise 
their  full  height  and  begin  to  brown  in  twelve  to  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  continue  browning,  and  finish  baking  in  twenty- five 
minutes.  Pieces  cut  from  centre  of  rings  of  patties  may  be 
baked  and  used  for  patty  covers 5  or  put  together,  rolled,  and 


PASTKY  468 

cut  for  uiiders.     Trimmings  from  puff  paste  should  be  care- 
fully laid  on  top  of  each  other,  patted,  and  rolled  out. 

Vol-au- vents 

Roll  puff  paste  one-third  inch  thick,  mark  an  oval  on  past* 
with  cutter  or  mould,  and  cut  out  with  sharp  knife,  first 
dipped  in  flour.  Brush  over  near  the  edge  with  cold  water, 
put  on  a  rim  three-fourths  inch  wide,  press  lightly,  chilly  and 
bake.  Vol-au-vents  require  for  baking  forty-five  minutes  to 
one  hour.  During  the  first  half-hour  they  should  be  covered^ 
watched  carefully,  and  frequently  turned.  The  paste  cut 
from  centre  of  rim  should  be  rolled  one-quarter  inch  thick, 
shaped  same  size  as  before  rolling,  chilled,  baked,  and  used 
for  cover  to  the  Vol- au- vent. 

Quick  Puff  Paste 

1  cup  bread  flour       "  Cold  water 

1  tablespoon  lard  %  cup  butter 

Work  lard  into  flour,  first  using  knife  then  tips  of  fingers. 
Moisten  to  a  dough  with  cold  water,  pat,  and  roll  out  same 
as  Puff  Paste.  Dot  paste  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  using 
one-third  the  quantity.  Dredge  with  flour,  fold  from  ends 
toward  centre,  then  double,  making  four  layers.  Pat,  and 
roll  out.  Eepeat  until  butter  is  used.  Roll,  shape,  chill,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Plain  Paste 

1*^  cups  flour  y^  cup  butter 

^  cup  lard  %  teaspoon  salt. 

Cold  water 

Wash  butter,  pat,  and  form  in  circular  piece.  Add  salt 
to  flour,  and  work  in  lard  with  tips  of  fingers  or  case  knife. 
Moisten  to  dough  with  cold  water ;  ice-water  is  not  an  essen- 
tial, but  is  desirable  in  summer.  Toss  on  board  dredged 
sparingly  with  flour,  pat,  and  roll  out ;  fold  in  butter  as  for 
puff  paste,  pat,  and  roll  out.  Fold  so  as  to  make  three  lay- 
ers, turn  half-way  round,  pat,  and  roll  out;  repeat.  The 
pastry  may  be  used  at  once ;  if  not,  fold  in  cheese-cloth,  put 
in  eoYered  tin,  ftnd  keep  in  cold  place,  but  neyer  in  direct 


464  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

contact  with  ice.     Plain  paste,  requires   a  moderate   oven. 
This  is  superior  paste- 
Chopped  Paste 
2  cups  flour  ^  cup  butter 

2  tablespoons  lard  %  teaspoon  salt 

Cold  water 

Wash  butter.  Mix  salt  with  flour,  put  in  chopping  tray, 
add  lard  and  butter,  and  chop  until  well  mixed.  Moisten  to 
a  dough  with  cold  water.  Toss  on  floured  cloth  (Magic 
Cover),  pat,  and  roll  out.  Fold  so  as  to  make  three  layers, 
turn  half-way  round,  pat,  and  roll  out;  repeat.  Should  the 
butter  be  too  hard,  it  will  not  mix  readily  with  the  flour,  in 
which  case  the  result  will  be  a  tough  crust.  Omit  lard,  and 
use  all  butter,  if  preferred. 

Quick  Paste 

\]4  cups  flour  1^  cup  lard,  crisco,  or 

%^  teaspoon  salt  cottolene 

Cold  water 

Mix  salt  with  flour,  cut  in  shortening  with  knife.  Moisten 
to  dough  with  cold  water.  Toss  on  floured  board,  pat,  roll 
out,  and  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Use  one-third  cup  of  short- 
ening if  a  richer  paste  is  desired. 

Paste  with  Lard 

\)4.  cups  flour  y^  cup  lard 

y^  teaspoon  salt  Cold  water 

Mix  salt  with  flour.  Reserve  one  and  one-fourth  table- 
spoons lard,  work  in  remainder  to  flour,  using  tips  of  fingers 
or  a  case  knife.  Moisten  to  a  dough  with  water.  Toss  on 
a  floured  board,  pat,  and  roll  out.  Spread  with  one  table- 
spoon reserved  lard,  dredge  with  flour,  roll  up  like  a  jelly 
roll,  pat,  and  roll  out ;  again  roll  up.  Cut  from  the  end  of 
roll  a  piece  large  enough  to  line  a  pie  plate.  Pat  and  roll 
out,  keeping  the  paste  as  circular  in  form  as  possible.  With 
care  and  experience  there  need  be  no  trimmings.  Worked- 
over  pastry  is  never  as  satisfactory.  The  remaining  one- 
fourth  tablespoon  lard  is  used  to  dot  over  upper  crust  of  pie 


PASTRY  466 

just  before  sending  to  oven;  this  gives  the  pie  a  flaky 
appearance.  Ice-water  has  a  similar  effect.  If  milk  is 
brushed  over  the  pie  it  has  a  glazed  appearance.  This 
quantity  of  paste  will  make  one  pie  with  two  crusts  and  a 
few  puffs,  or  two  pies  with  one  crust  where  the  rim  is  built 
up  and  fluted. 

Entire  Wheat  Paste 

1  cup  fine  Entire  Wheat  Flour  3  tablespoons  lard 

%  cup  pastry  flour  i^  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  Cold  water 

Make  same  as  Plain  Paste.  Roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in 
thickness,  cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces,  bake,  cool,  brush  over 
with  slightly  beaten  white  one  egg  diluted  with  one  teaspoon 
cold  water,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nut  meat  seasoned 
with  salt.  Return  to  oven  to  slightly  brown  nut  meats. 
Serve  with  salad  course. 

Quality  Paste 

2  cups  flour  ^  cup  butter 

^  cup  lard  Ice  water 

Put  flour  in  bowl,  add  lard,  and  cut  it  in  with  knife.  When 
finely  chopped  add  water  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough,  using 
as  little  as  possible.  Cut  the  butter  into  the  dough  leaving 
it  in  rather  coarse  pieces.  Chill  in  icebox  for  several  hours 
or  over  night.  Place  ball  of  paste  on  floured  cloth,  pat  and 
roll  out.  Fold  so  as  to  make  three  layers,  turn  half  way 
round,  pat  and  roll  out.  Pat,  roll  and  fold  four  times,  shape 
and  bake  at  once  in  hot  oven. 


466  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 
PIES 

PASTE  for  pies  should  be  one-fourth  inch  thick  and 
rolled  a  little  larger  than  the  plate  to  allow  for  shrink- 
ing. In  dividing  paste  for  pies,  allow  more  for  upper  than 
under  crusts.  Always  perforate  upper  crusts  that  steam 
may  escape.  Some  make  a  design,  others  pierce  with  a 
large  fork. 

Flat  rims  for  pies  should  be  cut  in  strips  three-fourths 
inch  wide.  Under  crusts  should  be  brushed  with  cold  water 
before  putting  on  rims,  and  rims  slightly  fulled,  otherwise 
they  will  shrink  from  edge  of  plate.  The  pastry-jagger,  a 
simple  device  for  cutting  paste,  makes  rims  with  fluted 
edges. 

Pies  requiring  two  crusts  sometimes  have  a  rim  between 
the  crusts.  This  is  mostly  confined  to  mince  pieces,  where 
there  is  little  danger  of  juice  escaping.  Sometimes  a  rim 
is  placed  over  upper  crust.  Where  two  pieces  of  paste 
are  put  together,  the  under  piece  should  always  be  brushed 
with  cold  water,  the  upper  piece  placed  over,  and  the  two 
pressed  lightly  together ;  otherwise  they  will  separate  during 
baking. 

When  juicy  fruit  is  used  for  filling  pies,  some  of  the 
juices  are  apt  to  escape  during  baking.  As  a  precaution, 
bind  with  a  strip  of  cotton  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water 
and  cut  one  inch  w^ide  and  long  enough  to  encircle  the 
plate.  Squash,  pumpkin,  and  custard  pies  are  much  less 
care  during  baking  when  bound.  Where  cooked  fruits  are 
used  for  filling,  it  is  desirable  to  bake  crusts  separately. 
This  is  best  accomplished  by  covering  an  inverted  deep 
pie  plate  with  paste  and  baking  for  under  crust.  Prick 
with  a  fork  before  baking.     Slip  from  plate,  and  fill.    For 


PIES  467 

npper  crusts,  roll  a  piece  of  paste  a  little  larger  than  the 
pie  plate,  prick,  and  bake  on  a  tin  sheet. 

For  baking  pies,  eight-inch  perforated  tin  plates  are 
used.  They  may  be  bought  shallow  or  deep.  By  the  use 
of  such  plates  the  under  crust  is  well  cooked.  Pastry 
should  be  thoroughly  baked  and  well  browned.  Pies  re- 
quire from  thirty-five  to  forty-five  minutes  for  baking. 
Never  grease  a  pie  plate ;  good  pastry  greases  its  own  tin. 
Slip  pies,  when  slightly  cooled,  to  earthen  plates. 

Apple  Pie  I 

4  or  5  sour  apples  ^  teaspoon  salt 

}^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Few  gratings  lemon  rind 

Line  pie  plate  with  paste.  Pare,  core,  and  cut  the  apples 
into  eighths,  put  row  around  plate  one-half  inch  from  edge, 
and  work  towards  centre  until  plate  is  covered;  then  pile 
on  remainder.  Mix  sugar,  nutmeg,  salt,  lemon  juice,  and 
grated  rind,  and  sprinkle  over  apples.  Dot  over  with 
butter.  Wet  edges  of  under  crust,  cover  with  upper  crust, 
and  press  edges  together. 

Bake  forty  to  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  A 
very  good  pie  may  be  made  without  butter,  lemon  juice,  and 
grated  rind.  Cinnamon  may  be  substituted  for  nutmeg. 
Evaporated  apples  may  be  used  in  place  of  fresh  fruit.  If 
used,  they  should  be  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water. 

Apple  Pie  II 

Use  same  ingredients  as  for  Apple  Pie  I.  Place  in  small 
earthen  baking-dish  and  add  hot  water  to  prevent  apples 
from  burning.  Cover  closely,  and  bake  three  hours  in  very 
slow  oven,  when  apples  will  be  a  dark  red  color.  Brown 
sugar  may  be  used  instead  of  white  sugar,  a  little  more 
being  required.     Cool,  and  bake  between  two  crusts. 

Blackberry  Pie 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  and  one-half  cups  berries.  Stew 
until  soft  with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning.     Add  sugar 


468  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

to  taste,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt.  Line  plate  with 
paste,  put  on  a  rim,  fill  with  berries  (which  have  been 
cooled)  ;  arrange  six  strips  pastry  across  the  top,  cut  same 
width  as  rim  ;  put  on  an  upper  rim.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

Blueberry  Pie 

2}4  cups  berries  %  cup  sugar 

Flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

Line  a  deep  plate  with  Plain  Paste,  fill  with  berries 
slightly  dredged  with  flour;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  salt, 
cover,  and  bake  forty-five  to  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  For  sweetening,  some  prefer  to  use  one-third  molas- 
ses, the  remaining  two- thirds  to  be  sugar.  Six  green  grapes 
(from  which  seeds  have  been  removed)  cut  in  small  pieces 
much  improve  the  flavor,  particularly  where  huckleberries 
are  used  in  place  of  blueberries. 

Cranberry  Pie 

1}4  cups  cranberries  i^  cup  water 

^  cup  sugar 

Put  ingredients  in  saucepan  in  order  given,  and  cook  ten 
minutes ;  cool,  and  bake  in  one  crust,  with  a  rim,  and  strips 
across  the  top. 

Currant  Pie 

1  cup  currants  3^  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  eg^  yolks 

2  tablespoons  water 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten 
and  diluted  with  water.  Wash  currants,  drain,  remove 
stems,  then  measure ;  add  to  first  mixture  and  bake  in  one 
crust;  cool,  and  coyer  with  Meringue  I.  Cook  in  slow  oven 
until  delicately  browned. 

Cream  Fie 

Bake  three  crusts  on  separate  pie  plates.  Put  together 
with  Gream  Filling  and  dust  over  with  powdered  sugar.    If 


PIES  469 

allowed  to  stand  after  filling  for  any  length  of  time,  the 
pastry  will  soften. 

Custard  Fie 

2  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1>^  cups  milk 

Few  gratings  nutmeg 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  milk.  Line  plate 
with  paste,  and  build  up  a  fluted  rim.  Strain  in  the  mix- 
ture and  sprinkle  with  few  gratings  nutmeg.  Bake  in  quick 
oven  at  first  to  set  rim,  decrease  the  heat  afterwards,  as 
egg  and  milk  in  combination  need  to  be  cooked  at  low 
temperature. 

Date  Pie 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

%  pound  sugar  dates  J^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  gratings  nutmeg 

Cook  dates  with  milk  twenty  minutes  in  top  of  double 
boiler.  Strain,  and  rub  through  sieve,  then  add  eggs  and 
salt.     Bake  same  as  Custard  Pie. 

Lemon  Pie  I 

%  cup  chopped  apple  i^  cup  rolled  common  crackers 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  beaten  egg  Grated  rind  1  lemon 

1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  bake  with  two  cras..s. 

Lemon  Pie  II 

%  cup  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

^  cup  boiling  water  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  corn-starch  Grated  rind  1  lemon 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  corn-starch,  flour,  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Cook  two  minutes,  add  butter,  egg  yolks, 
and  rind  and  juice  of  lemon.  Line  plate  with  paste  same  as 
for  Custard  Pie.  Turn  in  mixture  which  has  been  cooled,  and 
bake  until  pastry  is  well  browned.  Cool  slightly,  and  cover 
with  Meringue  I ;  then  return  to  oven  and  bake  meringua 


470  BOSTON  COOKING-SOHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Lemon  Fie  IH 

Yolks  4  eggs  1^  cups  milk 

6  tablespoons  sugar  Whites  4  eggs 

Few  grains  salt  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  lemon 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  salt,  grated  rind 
of  lemon,  and  milk.  Line  plate  with  paste  as  for  Custard 
Pie.  Pour  in  mixture.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  set. 
Remove  from  oven,  cool  slightly,  and  cover  with  Meringue 
III  (see  p.  480)  made  of  whites  of  eggs,  powdered  sugar, 
and  lemon  juice. 

Lemon  Pie  IV 

3  eggs  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

%  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  %,  lemon 

2  tablespoons  water 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice,  grated  rind, 
and  water.  Bake  in  one  crust  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cool 
slightly,  cover  with  Meringue  II,  then  return  to  oven  and 
bake  meringue. 

Lemon  Pie  V 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  tablespoon  melted 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  butter 

Yolks  2  eggs  *     Whites  2  eggs 

Few  grains  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  lemon  juice,  ^gg  yolks  slightly 
beaten,  milk,  butter,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  salt. 
Bake  in  one  crust,  and  cover  with  meringue  or  not,  as 
desired. 

Mince   Pies 

Mince  pies  should  be  always  baked  with  two  crusts. 
For  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  pies,  Puff  Paste  is  often 
used  for  rims  and  upper  crusts,  but  is  never  satisfactory 
when  used  for  under  crusts. 


PIX8 


471 


4  lbs.  lean  beef 

2  lbs.  beef  suet 
Baldwin  apples 

3  quinces 

3  lbs.  sugar 
2  cups  molasses 
2  quarts  cider 

4  lbs.  raisins,  seeded 

and  cut  in  pieces 


Mince  Fie  Meat  I 

3  lbs.  currants 

%  lb.  finely  cut  citron 

1  quart  cooking  brandy 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon  and  mace 

1  tablespoon  powdered  clove 

2  grated  nutmegs 
1  teaspoon  pepper 
Salt  to  taste 


Cover  meat  and  suet  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
tender,  cool  in  water  in  which  they  are  cooked ;  the  suet 
will  rise  to  top,  forming  a  cake  of  fat,  which  may  be  easily 
removed.  Finely  chop  meat,  and  add  it  to  twice  the 
amount  of  finely  chopped  apples.  The  apples  should  be 
quartered,  cored,  and  pared,  previous  to  chopping,  or  skins 
may  be  left  on,  which  is  not  an  objection  if  apples  are  finely 
chopped.  Add  quinces  finely  chopped,  sugar,  molasses, 
cider,  raisins,  currants,  and  citron ;  also  suet,  and  stock  in 
which  meat  and  suet  were  cooked,  reduced  to  one  and  one- 
half  cups.  Heat  gradually,  stir  occasionally,  and  cook 
slowly  two  hours;  then  add  brandy  and  spices. 

Mince  Pie  Meat  II 


6  cups  chopped  cooked  beef 

^>^  cups  chopped  suet 

1%  cups  chopped  apples 

3  cups  cider 

/-^  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  molasses 

5  cups  sugar 

^  lb.  citron,  finely  chopped 

2\^  cups  whole  raisins 

1)^  cups  raisins,  finely  chopped 

Salt 


oons 


Juice  2  lemons 
Juice  2  oranges 

1  tablespoon  mace 
Cinnamon]  ^  ,  . , 
Clove  2  tablesp. 

Allspice     j         ^^^^ 

2  nutmegs  grated 

2  tablespoons  lemon  extract 
1  teaspoon  almond  extract 
1/^  cups  brandy 

3  cups  liquor  in  which  beef 

was  cooked 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  except  brandy,  and 
let  simmer  one  and  one-half  hours ;  then  add  brandy  and 
shavings  from  the  rind  of  the  lemons  and  oranges. 


472  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

English  Mince  Meat  • 

5  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  5  lbs.  currants 

5  lbs.  suet  "I  5  lbs.  light  brown  sugar 

5  lbs.  apples  finely  %  teaspoon  mace 

4  lbs.  citron  I     chopped  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

\%  lbs.  blanched  2)^  cups  brandy 
almonds         j 

Cook  raisins,  suet,  apples,  citron,  currants,  and  sugar 
slowly  for  one  and  one-half  hours ;  then  add  almonds^  spices, 
and  brandy. 

Mince  Meat  (without  Alcoholic  Liquor) 
Mix  together  one  cup  chopped  apple,  one-half  cup  raisins 
seeded  and  chopped,  one-half  cup  currants,  one-fourth  cup 
butter,  one  tablespoon  molasses,  one  tablespoon  boiled  cider, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon 
cloves,  one-half  nutmeg  grated,  one  salt-spoon  of  mace,  and 
one  teaspoon  salt.  Add  enough  stock  in  which  meat  was 
cooked  to  moisten ;  heat  gradually  to  boiling-point,  and 
simmer  one  hour;  then  add  one  cup  chopped  meat  and  two 
tablespoons  Barberry  Jelly.     Cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Mock  Mince  Fie 

4  common  crackers,  rolled  1   cup   raisins,  seeded  and 
\%  cups  sugar  chopped 

1  cup  molasses  3^  cup  butter 

y^  cup  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  2  eggs  well  beaten 
Spices 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  adding  spices  to  taste. 
Bake  between  crusts.     This  quantity  will  make  two  pies. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

Mix  one  cup  cranberries  cut  in  halves,  one-half  cup 
raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces,  three-fourths  cup  sugar, 
and  one  tablespoon  flour.  Dot  over  with  one  teaspoon 
butter.     Bake  between  crusts. 

Peach  Pie 

Remove  skins  from  peaches.  This  may  be  done  easily 
after  allowing  peaches  to  stand  in  boiling  water  one  minute. 


PIES  47S 

Cut  in  eighths,  cook  until  soft  with  enough  water  to  prevent 
burning ;  sweeten  to  taste.  Cool,  and  fill  crust  previously 
baked.  Cover  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored. 
Fresh  strawberries,  cut  in  halves,  slightly  mashed  and 
sweetened,  are  attractively  served  in  a  pastry  case. 

Prune  Pie 

y^  lb.  prunes  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%,  cup  sugar  (scant)  \%  teaspoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Wash  prunes  and  soak  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 
Cook  in  same  water  until  soft.  Remove  stones,  cut  prunes 
in  quarters,  and  mix  with  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Reduce 
liquor  to  one  and  one-half  tablespoons.  Line  plate  with 
paste,  cover  with  prunes,  pour  over  liquor,  dot  over  with 
butter,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  on  an  upper  crust  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Rhubarb  Pie  « 

\%  cups  rhubarb  1  ^gg 

%  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

Skin  and  cut  stalks  of  rhubarb  in  half -inch  pieces  before 
measuring.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  and  Qgg  \  add  to  rhubarb  and 
bake  between  crusts.  Many  prefer  to  scald  rhubarb  before 
using ;  if  so  prepared,  losing  some  of  its  acidity,  less  sugar 
is  required. 

Squash  Pie  I 

13^  cups  steamed  and  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ginger, 

strained  squash  nutmeg,  or 

^  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

^  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

%  cup  milk 

Mix  sugar,  salt,  and  spice  or  extract,  add  squash,  eg^ 
slightly  beaten,  and  milk  gradually.  Bake  in  one  crust,  fol- 
lowing directions  for  Custard  Pie.  If  a  richer  pie  is  desired, 
use  one  cup  squash,  one-half  cup  each  of  milk  and  cream, 
and  an  additional  egg  yolk. 

1 


474  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Squash  Pie  II 

1  cup  squash,  steamed  4  tablespoons  brandy 

and  strained  Cinnamon  ?  ,  ,  , 

-     •     ,  ^T  ^  r  1  teaspoon  each 

1  cup  heavy  cream  Nutmeg     >  ^ 

1  cup  sugar  Ginger        )  _  .  ,  , 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten  Salt  {  ^  *«^^P°°"  «^^^ 

1^  teaspoon  mace 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  puff  paste.  Brush  over  paste 
with  white  of  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  sprinkle  with  stale 
bread  crumbs;  fill,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve 
warm. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

\y^  cups  steamed  and  }4  teaspoon  ginger 

strained  pumpkin  %  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  brown  sugar  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1%  cups  milk 

}^  cup  cream 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  bake  in  one  crust- 


Cheese  StrawSo  —  Page  476, 


CocoANiTT  Tk  X  C  A  KF.s.  ~  Page  477. 


Fbuit  Baskets.  —  Page  479- 


Lemok  Tartijets.       l*(ioe  479. 


PASTRY  DESSERTS  475 


CHAPTER   XXIX 

PASTRY  DESSERTS 

Banbury  Tarts 
1  cup  raisins  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  cracker 

Juice  and  grated  rind  1  lemon 

STONE  and  chop  raisins,  add  sugar,  egg  slightly  beaten, 
cracker  finely  rolled,  and  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Roll 
pastry  one-eighth  inch  thick,  and  cut  pieces  three  and  one- 
half  inches  long  by  three  inches  wide.  Put  two  teaspoons  of 
mixture  on  each  piece.  Moisten  edge  with  cold  water  half- 
way round,  fold  over,  press  edges  together  with  three-tined 
fork,  first  dipped  in  flour.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  slow 
oven. 

Cheese  Cakes 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Juice  and  grated  rind  one  lemon 

1  cup  sour  milk  ^  cup  almonds,  blanched  and 
1  cup  sugar  chopped 

Yolks  4  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Scald  sweet  and  sour  milk,  strain  through  cheese  cloth. 
To  curd  add  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  lemon,  and 
salt.  Line  patty  pans  with  paste,  fill  with  mixture,  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds.  Bake  until  mixture  is  firm 
to  the  touch. 

Cheese  Stra^vs 

Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one-fourth  inch  thick,  sprinkle  one- 
half  with  grated  cheese  to  which  has  been  added  few  grains 
of  salt  and  cayenne.  Fold,  press  edges  firmly  together,  fold 
again,  pat,  and  roll  out  one-fourth  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  with 
cheese  and  proceed  as  before  ;  repeat  twice.    Cut  in  strips  five 


476  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK   BOOK 

ioches  long  and  one-fourth  inch  wide.  Bake  eight  minutes 
in  hot  oven.  Parmesan  cheese,  or  equal  parts  of  Parmesan 
and  Edam  cheese,  may  be  used.  Cheese  straws  are  piled  log 
cabin  fashion  and  sers^ed  with  cheese  or  salad  course. 

Condes 

Whites  2  eggs  2  oz.  almonds,  blanched  and 

%  cup  powdered  sugar  finely  chopped 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  then 
almonds.  Roll  paste,  and  cut  in  strips  three  and  one-half 
inches  long  by  one  and  one-half  inches  wide.  Spread 
with  mixture;  avoid  having  it  come  close  to  edge.  Dust 
with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. 

Galattes 

Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick.  Shape  with 
an  oblong  cutter  three  and  one-half  inches  long  by  one  and 
three-fourths  inches  wide.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg 
and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
A  lady-finger  cutter  may  be  used  with  satisfaction,  but  is 
more  diflScult  to  procure. 

Cream  Horns 

Roll  puff  paste  in  a  long  rectangular  piece,  one-eighth  inch 
thick.  Cut  in  strips  three-fourths  inch  wide.  Roll  paste 
over  wooden  forms  bought  for  the  purpose,  having  edges 
overlap.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  well  puffed  and  slightly 
browned.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg  slightly  beaten, 
diluted  with  one  teaspoon  water,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Return  to  oven  and  finish  cooking,  and  remove  from  forms. 
When  cold,  mi  with  Cream  Filling  or  whipped  cream 
sweetened  and  flavored. 

Florentine  Meringue 
Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick  ;  cut  a  piece 
ten  inches  long  by  seven  inches  wide ;  place  on  a  sheet,  wet 
edges,  and  put  on  a  half-inch  rim.  Prick  with  fork  six 
times,  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Cool,  and  spread  with  jam, 
cover  with  Meringue  II,  and  almonds  blanched  and  shredded} 
eprinkle  with  powdered  §ugar  and  bake. 


PASTRY  DESSERTS  477 

Cocoanut  Tea  Cakes 
Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness. 
Shape  with  a  lady-finger  cutter  and  bake  on  a  tin  sheet  in  a 
hot  oven.  When  nearly  done  remove  from  oven,  cool 
slightly,  brush  over  with  beaten  white  of  egg,  sprinkle 
with  shredded  cocoanut,  and  return  to  oven  to  finish  the 
cooking. 

Napoleons 

Bake  three  sheets  of  pastry,  pricking  before  baking.  Put 
between  the  sheets  Cream  Filling  ;  spread  top  with  Con- 
fectioner's Frosting,  sprinkle  with  pistachio  nuts  blanched 
and  chopped,  crease  in  pieces  about  two  and  one-half  by  four 
inches,  and  cut  with  sharp  knife. 

Orange  Sticks 

Cut  puff  or  plain  paste  rolled  one-eighth  inch  thick  in  strips 
five  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide,  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Put 
together  in  pairs,  with  Orange  Filling  between. 

Lemon  Sticks 

Lemon  Sticks  may  be  made  in  same  manner  as  Orange 
Sticks,  using  Lemon  Filling. 

Palm  Leaves 

Roll  remnants  of  puff  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick ;  sprinkle 
one-half  surface  with  powdered  sugar,  fold,  press  edges  to- 
gether, pat  and  roll  out,  using  sugar  fo.'  dredging  board ; 
repeat  three  times.  After  the  last  rolling  fold  four  times. 
The  pastry  should  be  in  long  strip  one  and  one-half  inches 
wide.  From  the  end,  cut  pieces  one  inch  wide;  place  on 
baking-sheet,  broad  side  down,  one  inch  apart,  and  separate 
layers  of  pastry  at  one  end  to  suggest  a  leaf.  Bake  eight 
minutes  in  hot  oven ;  these  will  spread  while  baking. 

Raspberry  Puffs 

Roll  plain  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  pieces 
four  by  three  and  one-half  inches.  Put  one-half  tablespoon 
raspberry  jam  on  centre  of  lower  half  of  each  piece,  wet 


478  BOSTON  COOKINQ-SOHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

edges  half-way  around,  fold,  press  edges  firmly  together, 
prick  tops,  place  on  sheet,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in 
hot  oven. 

Tarts 

Roll  pufif  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick.  Shape  with  a 
fluted  round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour;  with  a  smaller 
cutter  remove  centres  from  half  the  pieces,  leaving  rings 
one-half  inch  wide.  Brush  with  cold  water  the  larger  pieces 
near  the  edge;  fit  on  rings,  pressing  lightly.  Chill  thor- 
oughly, and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  hot  oven.  By  brushing 
tops  of  rings  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  water,  they  will  have  a  glazed  appearance.  Cool, 
and  fill  with  jam  or  jelly. 

Polish  Tartlets 
Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick,  and  cut 
in  two  and  one-half  inch  squares ;  wet  the  corners,  fold 
toward  the  centre,  and  press  lightly ;  bake  on  a  sheet ;  when 
cool,  press  down  the  centres  and  fill,  using  two-thirds 
quince  marmalade  and  one-third  currant  jelly. 

Almond  Tartlets 

Line  patty  pans  with  puff  or  plain  paste,  fill  with  the 
following  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

Blanch  and  finely  chop  one-third  pound  Jordan  almonds. 
Add  two  tablespoons  cracker  rolled  and  sifted,  three  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one-third  teaspoon 
salt,  two  cups  milk,  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Peach  Crusts 
Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick,  cut  in 
two  and  one-half  inch  squares,  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Cool, 
press  down  the  centres,  and  arrange  on  each  one-half  a 
canned  peach  drained  from  syrup  and  heated  in  oven. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  put  brandy  in  each 
cavity.     Light  just  before  sending  to  table. 

Malaga  Boats 
Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one- eighth  inch  thick,  line  Indi- 
Tidual  boat-fihaped  tins,  prick,  and  half  flU  witk  rice  or  barley 


MBBINGUES  479 

to  keep  pastry  in  desired  shape.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Re- 
move from  tins  and  cover  bottom  of  boats  with  marmalade, 
and  on  marmalade  arrange  three  or  four  malaga  grapes 
cooked  in  syrup  five  minutes.  For  the  syrup  boil  one -half 
cup,  each,  sugar  and  water,  five  minutes. 

Calve  Tarts 

Roll  pufF  or  plain  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick,  and  cut  in 
rounds  of  correct  size  to  cover  inverted  circular  tins.  Cover 
tins  with  paste,  prick  several  times,  and  bake  until  delicately 
browned.  Place  one-half  a  canned  peach  in  each  case  and 
fill  each  cavity  with  one-half  a  blanched  Jordan  almond. 

Fruit  Baskets 

Bake  plain  paste  over  inverted  patty  pans.  Roll  paste 
one-eighth  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  strips  one-fourth  inch  wide. 
Twist  strips  in  pairs  and  bake  over  a  one- fourth  pound 
baking-powder  box,  thus  making  handles.  Fill  cases  with 
sliced  peaches  sprinkled  generously  with  sugar,  insert  han- 
dles, garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  peach  leaves.  Straw- 
berries, raspberries,  or  other  fruit  may  be  used  in  place  of 
peaches. 

Lemon  Tartlets       ' 
Bake   plain   paste   over   inverted   patty  pan.      Fill  with 
Lemon  Pie  II  mixture,  cover  with  Meringue  II,  and  bake 
until  meringue  is  delicately  browned. 

MERINGUES 

For  Pies,  Puddings,  and  Desserts 

Eggs  for  meringues  should  be  thoroughly  chilled,  and 
beaten  with  silver  fork,  wire  spoon,  or  whisk.  Where  sev- 
eral eggs  are  needed,  much  time  is  saved  by  using  a  whisk. 
Meringues  on  pies,  puddings,  or  desserts  may  be  spread 
evenly,  spread  and  piled  in  the  centre,  put  on  lightly  by 
spoonfuls,  or  spread  evenly  with  part  of  the  mixture,  the 
remainder  being  forced  througii  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Meringues  I  and  III  should  be  baked  fifteen  minutes  in 
slow  oven.     Meringue  II  should  be  cooked  eight  minutes 


480  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

in  moderate  oven;  if  removed  from  oven  before  cooked, 
the  eggs  will  liquefy  and  meringue  settle;  if  cooked  too 
long,  meringue  is  tough. 

Meringue  I 

Whites  2  eggs  %  tablespoon  lemon  juice  or 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue 
beating,  then  add  flavoring. 

Meringue  H 
Whites  3  eggs  i^  teaspoon  lemon  extract  or 

73^  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  y^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  four  tablespoons  sugar  gradu- 
ally, and  beat  vigorously  ;  fold  in  remaining  sugar,  and  add 
flavoring.     Cook  eight  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Meringue  III 
Whites  4  eggs  Jg  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Put  whites  of  eggs  and  sugar  in  bowl,  beat  mixture  until 
stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape,  add  lemon  juice  drop  by  drop, 
continuing  the  beating.  It  will  take  thirty  minutes  to  beat 
mixture  sufficiently  stiff  to  hold  its  shape,  but  when  baked 
it  makes  a  most  "delicious  meringue. 

Meringues  Glacees,  or  Kisses 
Whites  4  eggs  1)4  cups  powdered  sugar  or 

y^  teaspoon  vanilla  1  cup  fine  granulated 

Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  gradually  two-thirds  of  sugar, 
and  continue  beating  until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape ;  fold 
in  remaining  sugar,  and  add  flavoring.  Shape  with  a  spoon 
or  pastry  bag  and  tube  on  wet  board  covered  with  letter 
paper.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  very  slow  oven,  remove 
from  paper,  and  put  together  in  pairs,  or  if  intending  to  fill 
with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream  remove  soft  part  with 
Bpoon  and  place  meringues  in  oven  to  dry. 

Nut  Meringues 
To  Meringue    Glacee   mixture   add   chopped   nut   meat; 
almonds,  English  walnuts,  or  hickory  nuts  are  preferred. 


MERINGUES  481 

Shape  by  dropping  mixture  from  tip  of  spoon  in  small  piles 
one-half  inch  apart,  or  by  using  pastry  bag  and  tube. 
Sprinkle  with  nut  meat,  and  bake. 

Meringues  (Mushrooms) 

Shape  Meringue  Glacee  mixture  in  rounds  the  size  of 
mushroom  caps,  using  pastry  bag  and  tube ;  sprinkle  with 
grated  chocolate.  Shape  stems  like  mushroom  stems.  Bake, 
remove  from  paper,  and  place  caps  on  stems. 

Meringues  Panach^es 

Fill  Meringues  Glacees  with  ice  cream,  or  ice  cream  and 
water  ice.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream  forced  through 
pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  candied  cherries. 

Creole  Kisses 

%  lb.  Jordan  almonds  Whites  4  eggs 

3.^  cup  boiling  water  V/^  cups  powdered  sugar 

1^  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

1^  teaspoon  salt 

Blanch  almonds,  finely  shred  one-half  of  them,  and  dry 
slowly  in  oven.  Put  water  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  and  as 
soon  as  boiling-point  is  reached,  add  remaining  almonds, 
and  cook  until  the  syrup  is  of  a  golden  brown  color.  Turn 
into  a  pan,  cool,  and  finely  pounjd  in  mortar.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  sugar,  then  vanilla,  almonds, 
and  salt.  Shape,  sprinkle  with  shredded  almonds,  sift  sugar 
over  them,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  twenty- five  minutes. 


31 


482  BOSTON   COOKINO-SCHOOLi  COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XXX 
GINGERBREADS,   COOKIES,   AND  WAFERS 

Hot  Water  Gingerbread 
1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

y^  cup  boiling  water  \y^  teaspoons  ginger 

23^  cups  flour  .  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Add  water  to  molasses.  Mix  and  silt  dry  ingredients, 
combine  mixtures,  add  butter,  and  beat  vigorously.  Pour 
into  a  buttered  shallow  pan,  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Chicken  fat  tried  out  and  clarified 
furnishes  an  excellent  shortening,  and  may  be  used  in  place 
of  butter. 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread 

1  cup  molasses  1^  teaspoons  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  ginger 

23^  cups  flour  1^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  melted  butter 

Mix  soda  with  sour  milk  and  add  to  molasses.  Sift  to- 
gether remaining  dry  ingredients,  combine  mixtures,  add 
butter,  and  beat  vigorously.  Pour  into  a  buttered  shallow 
pan,  and  bake  tw^enty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Soft  Molasses  Gingerbread 
1  cup  molasses  1  Qg^ 

y^  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

\%  teaspoons  soda  2  teaspoons  ginger 

%  cup  sour  milk  3-2  teaspoon  salt 

Put  butter  and  molasses  in  saucepan  and  cook  until  boil- 
ing-point is  reached.  Remove  from  fire,  add  soda,  and  beat 
vigorously.  Then  add  milk,  egg  well  beaten,  and  remain- 
ing ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.     Bake  fifteen  minutes  in 


GINGERBREADS,   COOKIES,   AND   WAFERS         483 

buttered  small  tin  pans,  having  pans  two-thirds  filled  with 

mixture. 

Cambridge  Gingerbread 
}{  cup  butter  1}^  teaspoons  soda 

%  cup  boiling  water  }^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  ginger 
2^  cups  flour                                   3€  teaspoon  ctove 

Melt  butter  in  water,  add  molasses,  egg  well  beaten,  and 
dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.  Bake  in  a  buttered  shal- 
low pan. 

Soft  Sugar  Gingerbread 

2  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1^  cu'^°  jiour  1}^  teaspoons  ginger 

^  cup  thin  cream 

Beat  eggs  until  light,  and  add  sugar  gradually.  Mix  and 
sift  dry  ingredients,  and  add  alternately  with  cream  to  first 
mixture.  Turn  into  a  buttered  cake  pari,  and  bake  thirty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Gossamer  Gingerbread 

3^  cup  butter  }^  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

1  egg  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  yellow  ginger 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  egg  well 
beaten.  Add  milk,  and  dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted. 
Spread  in  a  buttered  dripping-pan  as  thinly  as  possible,  using 
the  back  of  mixing-spoon.  Bake  thirty  minutes.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  cut  in  small  squares  or  diamonds  before 
removing  from  pan. 

Fairy  Gingerbread 

}£  cup  butter  X  cnp  milk 

i  cup  light  brown  sugar  1%  cups  bread  flour 

2  teaspoons  ginger 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  milk  very 
slowly.     Mix  and  sift  flour  and  ginger,  and  combine  mix- 


484  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

tures.  Spread  very  thinly  with  a  broad,  long-bladed  knife 
on  a  buttered,  inverted  dripping-pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Cut  in  squares  before  removing  from  pan.  Watch 
carefully  and  turn  pan  frequently  during  baking,  that  all 
may  be  evenly  cooked.  If  mixture  around  edge  of  pan  is 
cooked  before  that  in  the  centre,  pan  should  be  removed 
from  oven,  cooked  part  cut  off,  and  remainder  returned  to 
oven  to  finish  cooking. 

Hard  Sugar  Gingerbread 

%  cup  butter  5  cups  flour 

1%  cups  sugar  %  tablespoon  baking  powder 

^  cup  milk  1%  teaspoons  salt 

%  tablespoon  ginger 

Cream  the  butter^  add  sugar  gradually,  milk,  and  dry  in- 
gredients mixed  and  sifted.  Put  some  of  mixture  on  an 
inverted  dripping-pan  and  roll  as  thinly  as  possible  to  cover 
pan.  Mark  dough  with  a  coarse  grater.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Before  removing  from 
pan,  cut  in  strips  four  and  one-half  inches  long  by  one  and 
one-half  inches  wide. 

Christmas  English  Gingerbread 

1  lb.  flour  1  tablespoon  ginger 

3^  lb.  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  Molasses 

Mix  flour^  sugar,  ginger,  and  salt.  Work  in  butter,  using 
tips  of  fingers,  and  add  just  enough  molasses  to  hold  ingre- 
dients together.  Let  stand  over  night  to  get  thoroughly 
chilled.     Roll  very  thin,  shape,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Card  Gingerbread 

%  cup  butter  1%  cups  flour 

%  cup  brown  sugar  %  tablespoon  ginger 

1  egg  \  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  molasses  %  teaspoon  soda 

3^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg  well  beaten, 
molasses,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  ginger,  salt,  soda, 


GINGERBREADS,    COOKIES,   AND   WAFERS         485 

and  cinnamon.     Chill ,  roll  in  sheets  to  one-fourth  inch  in 
thickness,  bake  on  a  buttered  sheet,  and  cut  in  squares. 

"Walnut  Molasses  Bars 

^  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

^  cup  lard  %  tablespoon  ginger 

^  cup  boiling  water  i^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1^  cup  brown  sugar  3^  teaspoon  clove 

3^  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda  Chopped  walnut  meat 

Pour  water  over  butter  and  lard,  then  add  sugar,  molasses 
mixed  with  soda,  flour,  salt,  and  spices.  Chill  thoroughly, 
roll  one-fourth  inch  thick,  cut  in  strips  three  and  one-half 
inches  long  by  one  and  one-half  inches  wide.  Sprinkle  with 
nut  meat  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

Ginger  Snaps 

1  cup  molasses  }4  teaspoon  soda 

}^  cup  shortening  1  tablespoon  ginger 

33=^  cups  flour  1}^  teaspoons  salt 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling-point  and  pour  over  shortening. 
Add  dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.  Chill  thoroughly. 
Toss  one-fourth  of  mixture  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  as 
thinly  as  possible ;  shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  first 
dipped  in  flour.  Place  near  together  on  a  buttered  sheet 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Gather  up  the  trimmings 
and  roll  with  another  portion  of  dough.  During  rolling,  the 
bowl  containing  mixture  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  or 
it  will  be  necessary  to  add  more  flour  to  dough,  which  makes 
cookies  hard  rather  than  crisp  and  short. 

Molasses  Cookies 

1  cup  molasses  1  tablespoon  ginger 

)4  cup  shortening,  butter  1  tablespoon  soda 

and  lard  mixed  2  tablespoons  warm  milk 

23^  cups  bread  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling-point,  add  shortening,  ginger, 
soda  dissolved  in  warm  milk,  salt,  and  flour.  Proceed  as 
for  Ginger  Snaps. 


486  BOSTOH  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Soft  Molasses  Cookies 

1  cup  molasses  %  cup  shortening,  melted 

1^  teaspoons  soda  2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 
Flour 

Add  soda  to  molasses  and  beat  thoroughly;  add  milk, 
shortening,  ginger,  salt,  and  flour.  Enough  flour  must  be 
used  to  make  mixture  of  right  consistency  to  drop  easily 
from  spoon.  Let  stand  several  hours  in  a  cold  place  to 
thoroughly  chill.  Toss  one-half  mixtij^e  at  a  time  on 
slightly  floured  board  and  roll  lightly  to  one-fourth  inch 
thickness.  Shape  with  a  round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour. 
Bake  on  a  buttered  sheet. 

Spice  Cookies 

%  cup  molasses  2  cups  flour 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  soda 

\%  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

\%  tablespoons  lard  %  teaspoon  clove 

1  tablespoon  milk  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling-point.  Add  sugar,  shortening, 
and  milk.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  and  add  to  first 
mixture.  Chill  thoroughly,  and  proceed  as  with  Ginger 
Snaps. 

Scotoli  "Wafers 

1  cup  fine  oatmeal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  Rolled  Oats  %  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  flour  1^  cup  butter  or  lard 
3^  cup  sugar  y^  cup  hot  water 

Mix  first  six  ingredients.  Melt  shortening  in  water  and 
add  to  first  mixture.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat,  and  roll 
as  thinly  as  possible. «  Shape  with  a  cutter,  or  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  in  strips.  Bake  on  a  buttered  sheet  in  a  slow 
oven.  These  are  well  adapted  for  children's  luncheons,  and 
are  much  enjoyed  by  the  convalescent,  taken  with  a  glass  of 
milk. 


6INGBRBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND   WAFERS  487 


Oatmeal  Cookies 

1  egg  }i  cup  fine  oatmeal 

%  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

^  cup  thin  cream  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1^  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  until  light,  add  sugar,  cream,  and  milk;  then 
add  oatmeal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt,  mixed  and 
sifted.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  roll,  cut  in  shape,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Scottish  Fancies 

1  egg  1  cup  rolled  oats 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

J^  tablespoon  melted  butter  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  until  light,  add  gradually  sugar,  and  then  stir 
in  remaining  ingredients.  Drop  mixture  by  teaspoonfuls  on 
a  thoroughly  greased  inverted  dripping-pan  one  inch  apart. 
Spread  into  circular  shape  with  a  case  knife  first  dipped  in 
cold  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  delicately 
browned.  To  give  variety  use  two-thirds  cup  rolled  oats 
and  fill  cup  with  shredded  cocoanut. 

Vanilla  Wafers 
^  cup  butter  and  lard  in  ^  cup  milk 

equal  proportions  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  t%'g  %.  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten,  milk,  and 
vanilla.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  first  mix- 
ture.    Proceed  as  with  Ginger  Snaps. 

Cream  Cookies 
y^  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  yellow  ginger 
)^  cup  thin  cream                      Flour  to  roll 

Mix  and  bake  i^ame  as  Vanilla  Wafers. 


488  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Imperial  Cookies 

}4.  cup  butter  2)4,  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  %  teaspoon  lemon  extract 
1  tablespoon  milk  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Mix  and  bake  same  as  Vanilla  Wafers. 

Hermits 

y^  cup  butter  y^  cup  raisins,  stoned  and  cut 
%  cup  sugar  in  small  pieces 

1  ^^^^  y^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  milk  )^  teaspoon  clove 
\\  cups  flour  ]/^  teaspoon  mace 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder       3^^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  raisins,  egg 
well  beaten,  and  milk.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and 
add  to  first  mixture.  KoU  mixture  a  little  thicker  than  for 
Vanilla  Wafers. 

Rich  Cookies 

%  cup  butter  ^  cup  flour 

y^  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  Qig'g  well  beaten  Raisins,  nuts,  or  citron 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  Q^^'g,  flour,  and 
vanilla.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  in  small  portions  on  but- 
tered sheet  two  inches  apart.  Spread  thinly  with  a  knife 
first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Put  four  Sultana  raisins  on  each 
cookie,  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in  strips,  or  citron  cut  in 
small  pieces. 

Jelly  Jumbles 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  Qgg  Flour 

%  teaspoon  soda  Currant  jelly 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  ^gg  well  beaten, 
soda  mixed  with  milk,  salt  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Chill  and  shape,  using  a  round  cutter.  On  the  centres  of 
one-half  the  pieces  put  currant  jelly.  Make  three  small 
openings  in  remaining  halves,  using  a  thimble,  and  put  pieces 


Rich  Cookies.  —  Page 


RbTAL  Fans.  — Pa^«  489. 


Chocolate  Cakes   {Page  491)   and  Crescents   {Page  534). 


Meringues.  —  Page  48O. 


GINGERBREADS,   COOKIES,   AND   WAFERS         489 

together.     Press  edges  slightly,  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot 
oven,  that  jumbles  may  keep  in  good  shape. 

Royal  Fans 

Mix  and  sift  two  cups  flour  and  one-half  cup  brown  sugar. 
Wash  three-fourths  cup  butter  and  work  into  first  mixture, 
using  tips  of  fingers.  Roll  to  one-third  inch  in  thickness, 
shape  with  a  fluted  round  cutter  five  inches  in  diameter. 
Cut  each  piece  in  quarters  and  crease  with  the  dull  edge  of  a 
case  knife  to  represent  folds  of  a  fan.  Brush  over  with 
yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  three-fourths  teaspoon  water.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 

Boston  Cookies 

1  cup  butter  j^  teaspoon  salt 

1}^  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  eggs  ■  1  cup  chopped  nut  meat, 

1  teaspoon  soda  hickory  or  English  walnut 
1}4  tablespoons  hot  water  ^  cup  currants 

3)^  cups  flour  ^  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

chopped 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  eggs  well 
beaten.  Add  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  one-half  the 
flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt  and  cinnamon;  then  add 
nut  meat,  fruit,  and  remaining  flour.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
one  inch  apart  on  a  buttered  sheet,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Cookies 

2  eggs  }4  ^^V  shredded  cocoanut 
1  cup  sugar  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  thick  cream  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  sugar  gradually,  cocoanut, 
cream,  and  flour"  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Chill  thoroughly,  toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat,  and 
roll  one-half  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  roll  one- 
fourth  inch  thick,  and  shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  first 
dipped  in  flour.  Bake  on  a  buttered  sheet  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


490  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Peanut  Cookies 

2  tablespoons  butter  l^  teaspoon  salt 

>^  cup  sugar  %,  cup  flour 

1  Qgg  2  teaspoons  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder       %  c^P  finely  chopped  peanuts 
%  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  and  egg  well  beaten.  Mix 
and  sift  baking  powder,  salt,  and  flour ;  add  to  first  mixture ; 
then  add  milk,  peanuts,  and  lemon  juice.  Drop  from  a  tea- 
spoon on  a  buttered  sheet  one  inch  apart,  and  place  one- 
half  peanut  on  top  of  each.  Bake  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven.  This  recipe  will  make  twenty-four  cookies. 
One  pint  peanuts  when  shelled  should  yield  one-half  cup. 

Almond  Cookies 

%  cup  butter  y^  tablespoon  cinnamon 

1  ^gg  Clove      >  %  tablespoon 

y^  cup  almonds,  blanched  Nutmeg  \  each 

and  finely  chopped  Grated  rind  y^  lemon 

%  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  brandy 
2  cups  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  Qg%  well  beaten,  almonds,  sugar, 
brandy,  and  spices  mixed  and  sifted  with  flour.  Roll  mix- 
ture to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  shape  with  a  round 
cutter  first  dipped  in  flour,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Nut  Cookies 

Yolks  2  eggs  Whites  2  eggs 

1  cup  brown  sugar  6  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  chopped  nut  meats  Few  grains  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add 
sugar  gradually,  nut  meats,  whites  of  ^^g  beaten  until  stiff, 
and  flour  mixed  with  salt.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on 
buttered  sheet,  spread,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Seed  Cakes 

Follow  recipe  for  Cocoanut  Cream  Cookies  (see  p.  489), 
using  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  caraway  seeds  in  place 
of  cocoanut. 


€H[NGE1RBR1SADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFEKS         491 

Chocolate  Cookies 
y^  cup  butter  2  ozs.  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  cup  sugar  2>^  cups  flour  (scant) 

1  Qgg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1^  teaspoon  salt  >4  cup  milk 

Cream  the  batter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg  well  beaten, 
salt,  and  chocolate  melted.  Beat  well,  and  add  flour  mixed 
and  sifted  with  baking  powder  alternately  with  milk.  Chill, 
roll  very  thin,  then  shape  with  a  small  cutter,  first  dipped  in 
flour,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

German  Chocolate  Cookies 
2  eggs  Grated  rind  ^  lemon 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1)^  cups  almonds,  blanched 

2  bars  German  chocolate  and  chopped 
^  teaspoon  cinnamon                      1  cup  flour 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  until  light,  add  sugar,  gradually,  and  continue 
the  beating:  then  add  chocolate,  grated,  and  remaining 
ingredients.  Drop  from  .tip  of  spoon  on  a  buttered  sheet, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Fruit  Cookies 
^  cup  butter  1  egg 

%  cup  sugar  %,  cup  nut  meats,  finely  chopped 

2  tablespoons. grated  chocolate       %  <^up  seeded  raisins,  finely 
1  tablespoon  sugar  chopped 

1  tablespoon  boiling  water  1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  sugar,  gradually.  Melt  choco- 
late, add  remaining  sugar  and  water,  and  cook  one  minute. 
Combine  mixtures,  and  add  remaining  ingredients.  Chill, 
shape,  and  bake  same  as  Chocolate  Cookies. 

Chocolate  Cakes 

3  eggs  3  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

y^  cup  butter  1  cap  stale  bread  crumbs 

3^  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  flour 

Beat  eggs  until  light.  Cream  the  batter,  add  sugar,  oom- 
bsiM)  xoixtnreA,  th^^n  add  chocolate  melted,  bread  cnunbOji 


492  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

and  flour.  Spread  mixture  in  a  shallow  buttered  pan  and 
baka  in  a  slow  oven.  Shape  with  a  tiny  biscuit-cutter  and 
put  together  in  pairs  with  White  Mountain  Cream  (see  p.  528) 
between  and  on  top. 

ITeuremburghs 

2  eggs  ^  teaspoon  clove 

%  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  orange  peel,  finely 

%^  cup  flour  cut 

y^  teaspoon  salt  Grated  rind  y^  lemon 

y^  teaspoon  cinnamon  ^  cup  Jordan  almonds 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff,  and  add  sugar 
gradually,  continuing  the  beating.  Then  add  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt  and  spices, 
orange  peel,  and  lemon  rind.  Blanch  almonds,  cut  in  small 
pieces  crosswise,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  well  browned. 
Fold  into  the  mixture,  and  drop  by^  spoonfuls  on  a  sheet 
dredged  with  corn-siarch  and  powdered  sugar  in  equal  pro- 
portions.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sand  Tarts 

« 

%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  White  1  ^gg 

1  egg  Blanched  almonds 

\\  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  ^gg  well 
beaten ;  then  add  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder.  Chill,  toss  one-half  mixture  on  a  floured  board, 
and  roll  one-eighth  inch  thick.  Shape  with  a  doughnut 
cutter.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg,  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon.  Split  almonds,  and  arrange 
three  halves  on  each  at  equal  distances.  Place  on  a  but- 
tered sheet,  and  bake  eight  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

Swedish  Wafers 

%  cup  butter  5  ozs.  flour 

y^  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs  Shredded  almonds 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  slightly 
beaten,    flour,    and  flavoring.     Droo   by   spoonfuls  on  an 


GINGERBREADS,   COOKIES,  AND   WAFERS         493 

inverted  buttered  dripping-pan.  Spread  very  thinly,  using 
a  knife,  in  circular  shapes  about  three  inches  in  diameter. 
Sprinkle  with  almonds,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Remove 
from  pan,  and  shape  at  once  over  the  handle  of  a  wooden 
spoon. 

Marguerites  I 

2  eggs  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar  y^  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  flour  1  cup  pecan  nut  meats,  cut 

in  small  pieces 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  and  add  remaining  ingredients  in  the 
order  given.  Fill  small  buttered  tins  two-thirds  full  of 
mixture,  and  place  pecan  nut  meat  on  each.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Marguerites  H 

\%  cups  sugar  2  tablespoons  shredded  cocoanut 

%  cup  water  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

5  marsh  mallows  1  cup  English  walnut  meats 

Whites  2  eggs  Sal  tines 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  will  thread.  Remove 
to  back  of  range  and  add  marshmallows  cut  in  pit^ces. 
Pour  onto  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff;  then  add 
cocoanut,  vanilla,  and  nut  meats.  Spread  saltines  with 
mixture  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 

Kornettes 

%  cup  finely  chopped  popped  corn  ^^  teaspoon  salt 

X  tablespoon  soft  butter  i^  teaspoon  vanilla 

White  1  egg  Blanched  and  chopped 
y^  cup  sugar  almonds 

Candied  cherries 

Add  butter  to  corn.  Beat  egg  white  until  stiff,  and  add 
sugar  gradually,  continiHng  the  beating.  Combine  mix- 
tures ;  then  add  salt  and  vanilla.  Drop  mixture  from  tip  of 
spoon  on  a  well  buttered  sheet,  one  inch  apart.  Shape  in 
circular  form  with  case  knife  first  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Sprinkle  with  almonds  and  place  a  piece  of  candied  cherry 
on  the  centre  of  each.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately 
browaedi 


494  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOI.  COOK  BOOK 

Rolled  "Wafers 

yi  cup  butter  i^  cup  milk 

1^  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  bread  flour 

^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  milk  drop  by 
drop;  then  add  flour  and  flavoring.  Spread  very  thinly 
with  a  broad,  loug-bladed  knife  on  a  buttered  inverted  drip- 
ping-pan. Crease  in  three-inch  squares,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  until  delicately  browned.  Place  pan  on  back  of  range, 
cut  squares  apart  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  roll  while  warm  in 
tubular  or  cornucopia  shape.  If  squares  become  too  brittle 
to  roll,  place  in  oven  to  soften.  If  rolled  tubular  shape,  tie 
in  bunches  with  narrow  ribbon.  These  are  very  attractive, 
and  may  be  served  with  sherbet,  ice  cream,  or  chocolate.  If 
rolled  cornucopia  shape,  they  may  be  filled  with  whipped 
cream  just  before  sending  to  table.  Colored  wafers  may  be 
made  from  this  mixture  by  adding  leaf  green  or  fruit  red. 
If  colored  green,  flavor  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  almond  and 
three-fourths  teaspoon  vanilla.  If  colored  pink,  flavor  with 
rose.  Colored  wafers  must  be  baked  in  a  very  slow  oven 
and  turned  frequently,  otherwise  they  will  not  be  of  the 
uniform  color  that  is  desired. 

Almond  "Wafers 

Before  baking  Rolled  Wafers,  sprinkle  with  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped.  Other  nut  meats  or  shredded  cocoa- 
nut  may  be  used  in  place  of  almonds. 

English  Rolled  "Wafers  I  (Brandy  "Wafers) 

j^  cup  molasses  1  cup  flour  (scant) 

^  cup  butter  %  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  ginger 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling-point,  add  butter,  then  slowly, 
stirring  constantly,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  ginger  and 
sugar.  Drop  small  portions  from  tip  of  spoon  on  a  buttered 
inverted  dripping-pan  two  inches  apart.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven,  cool  slightly,  remove  from  pan,  and  roll  over  handle 
of  wooden  spoon. 


English  Rolled  Wafers  I-II.  —  Page 


MAKauERiTES  I.  —  Page  49$, 


Mocha  Cakes.  —  Page  518. 


Small  Eclairs.  —  Page  519. 


IcK  C»KAM  Cake   {Page  517)   with  Nut  Caramel  Fhostino. 
Page  6  SO. 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS         495 

English  Rolled  "Wafers  H 

To  English  Rolled  Wafers  I,  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
rolled  oats. 

Kut  Bars 

2  tablespoons  brown  y^  cup  fiour 

sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  English  walnut 
^  cup  boiling  water  meat,  finely  chopped 

y^  cup  brown  sugar  Halves  of  walnuts  or  almonds 

Caramelize  two  tablespoons  sugar,  add  butter  and  water, 
and  boil  two  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  remaining 
sugar,  flour  mixed  with  salt,  and  walnut  meat.  Spread  as 
Rolled  Wafers,  crease  in  two-inch  squares,  and  decorate  with 
nut  meats.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  and  remove  from  pan  at 
once. 

Nut  Macaroons 

White  1  Qgg  1  cup  pecan  nut  meats 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  sugar.  Fold  in  nut  meats,  finely  chopped 
and  sprinkled  with  salt.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon,  one  inch 
apart,  on  a  buttered  sheet,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  un- 
til delicately  browned. 

Brownies 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

1^  cup  melted  butter  %  cup  flour 

1  egg,  unbeaten  %  cup  walnut  meats,  cut  in 

2  squares  unsweetened  choc-  pieces 

olate,  melted 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Line  a  seven-inch  square 
pan  with  parafllne  paper.  Spread  mixture  evenly  in  pan 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  As  soon  $is  taken  from  oven  turn 
from  pan,  remove  paper,  and  cut  cake  in  strips,  using  a 
sharp  knife.  If  these  directions  are  not  followed  paper  will 
cling  to  cake,  and  it  will  be  impossible  to  cut  it  in  shapely 
pieces. 


496  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Card  Cakes 

j^  cup  butter  Jordan  almonds 

1  cup  powdered  sugar        1  tablespoon  breakfast  cocoa 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  flour  ^  teaspoon  powdered  cinnamon 

)^  teaspoon  salt  }^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Shredded  cocoanut 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  eggs  well  beaten,  flour,  and 
salt.  Spread  mixture  on  bottom  of  a  buttered  inverted 
dripping-pan,  decorate  with  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in 
strips,  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  Cut  in  desired  shape,  using 
heart,  spade,  and  diamond  shaped  cutters  before  removing 
from  pan.  To  give  variety,  divide  mixture  in  halves.  To 
one-half  add  sugar,  cocoa,  cinnamon,  and  vanilla,  then  spread 
on  pan  and  sprinkle  with  shredded  cocoanut. 


% 


CAKisi  497 


CHAPTER  XXXI 
CAKE 

THE  mixing  and  baking  of  cake  requires  more  care  and 
judgment  than  any  other  branch  of  cookery ;  notwith- 
standing, it  seems  the  one  most  frequently  attempted  by  the 
inexperienced. 

Two  kinds  of  cake  mixtures  are  considered :  — 

I.  Without  butter.     Example :  Sponge  Cakes. 

II.  With  butter.     Examples  :  Cup  and  Pound  Cakes. 

In  cake  making  (1)  the  best  ingredients  are  essential ;  (2) 
great  care  must  be  taken  in  measuring  and  combining  in- 
gredients ;  (3)  pans  must  be  properly  prepared ;  (4)  oven 
heat  must  be  regulated,  and  cake  watched  during  baking. 

Best  tub  butter,  fine  granulated  sugar,  fresh  eggs,  and 
pastry  flour  are  essentials  for  good  cake.  Coarse  granulated 
sugar,  bought  by  so  many,  if  used  in  cake  making,  gives  a 
coarse  texture  and  hard  crust.  Pastry  flour  contains  more 
starch  and  less  gluten  than  bread  flour,  therefore  makes  a 
lighter,  more  tender  cake.  If  bread  flour  must  be  used, 
allow  two  tablespoons  less  for  each  cup  than  the  recipe  calls 
for.  Flour  differs  greatly  in  thickening  properties ;  for 
this  reason  it  is  always  well  when  using  from  a  new  bag  to 
try  a  small  cake,  as  the  amount  of  flour  given  may  not 
make  the  pe^rfect  loaf.  In  winter,  cake  may  be  made  of  less 
flour  than  in  summer. 

Before  attempting  to  mix  cake,  study  How  to  Measure 
(p.  25)  and  How  to  Combine  Ingredients  (p.  26). 

Look  at  the  fire,  and  replenish  by  sprinkling  on  a  small 
quantity  of  coal  if  there  is  not  sufficient  heat  to  effect  the 
baking. 


498  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

To  Mix  Sponge  Cake.  Separate  yolks  from  whites  of 
eggs.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon -colored,  using  an 
egg-beater;  add  sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating; 
then  add  flavoring.  Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  dry,  —  when 
they  will  fly  from  the  beater,  —  and  add  to  the  first  mixture. 
Mix  and  sift  flour  with  salt,  and  cut  and  fold  in  at  the  last. 
If  mixture  is  beaten  after  the  addition  of  flour,  much  of  the 
work  already  done  of  enclosing  a  large  amount  of  air  will 
be  undone  by  breaking  air  bubbles.  These  rules  apply  to  a 
mixture  where  baking  powder  is  not  employed. 

To  Mix  Butter  Cakes.  An  earthen  bowl  should  always 
be  used  for  mixing  cake,  and  a  wooden  cake-spoon  with  slits 
lightens  the  labor.  Measure  dry  ingredients,  and  mix  and 
sift  baking  powder  and  spices,  if  used,  with  flour.  Count 
out  number  of  eggs  required,  breaking  each  separately  that 
there  may  be  no  loss  should  a  stale  egg  chance  to  be  found 
in  the  number,  separating  yolks  from  whites  if  rule  so  speci- 
fies. Measure  butter,  then  liquid.  Having  everything  in 
readiness,  the  mixing  may  be  quickly  accomplished.  If  but- 
ter is  very  hard,  by  allowing  it  to  stand  a  short  time  in  a 
warm  room  it  is  measured  and  creamed  much  easier.  If 
time  cannot  be  allowed  for  this  to  be  done,  warm  bowl  by 
pouring  in  some  hot  water,  letting  stand  one  minute,  then 
emptying  and  wiping  dry.  Avoid  overheating  bowl,  as  but- 
ter will  become  oily  rather  than  creamy.  Put  butter  in  bowl, 
and  cream  by  working  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  soft  and 
of  a  creamy  consistency  ;  then  add  sugar  gradually,  and  con- 
tinue beating.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  or  whole  eggs  beaten 
until  light,  liquid,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
'powder;  or  liquid  and  flour  may  be  added  alternately. 
When  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  are  beaten  separately,  whites 
are  usually  added  at  the  last,  as  is  the  case  when  whites  of 
eggs  alone  are  used.  A  cake  can  be  made  fine-grained  only 
by  long  beating,  although  light  and  delicate  with  a  small 
amount  of  beating.  Never  stir  cake  after  the  final  beating, 
remembering  that  beating  motion  should  always  be  the  last 
used.  Fruit,  when  added  to  cake,  is  usually  floured  to  pre- 
vent its  settling  to  the  bottom.  This  is  not  necessary  if  it  is 
Added  directly  after  the  sugar,  which  is  desirable  in  all  dark 


CAKE  ' 49^ 

cakes.  If  a  light  fruit  cake  is  made,  fruit  added  in  this  way 
discolors  the  loaf.  Citron  is  first  cut  in  thin  slices,  then  in 
strips,  floured,  and  put  in  between  layers  of  cake  mixtures. 
Raisins  are  seeded  and  cut,  rather  than  chopped.  •  To  seed 
raisins,  wet  tips  of  fingers  in  a  cup  of  warm  water.  Then 
break  skins  with  fingers  or  cut  with  a  vegetable  knife ;  re- 
move seeds,  and  put  in  cup  of  water.  This  is  better  than 
covering  raisins  with  warm  water;  if  this  be  done,  water 
clings  to  fruit,  and  when  dredged  with  flour  a  pasty  mass  is 
formed  on  the  outside.  Washed  currants,  put  up  in  pack- 
ages, are  quite  free  from  stems  and  foreign  substances,  and 
need  only  picking  over  and  rolling  in  flour.  Currants  bought 
in  bulk  need  thorough  cleaning.  First  roll  in  flour,  which 
helps  to  start  dirt;  wash  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  spread  to 
dry ;  then  roll  again  in  flour  before  using. 

To  Butter  and  Fill  Pans.  Grease  pans  with  melted  fat, 
applying  the  same  with  a  butter  brush.  If  butter  is  used, 
put  in  a  small  saucepan  and  place  on  back  of  range ;  when 
melted,  salt  will  settle  to  the  bottom;  butter  is  then  called 
clarified.  Just  before  putting  in  mixture,  dredge  pans  thor- 
oughly with  flour,  invert,  and  shake  pan  to  remove  all  super- 
fluous flour,  leaving  only  a  thin  coating  w^hich  adheres  to 
butter.  This  gives  to  cake  a  smooth  under  surface,  which  is 
especially  desirable  if  cake  is  to  be  frosted.  Pans  may  be 
lined  vrith  paper.  If  this  is  done,  paper  should  just  cover 
bottom  of  pan  and  project  over  sides.  Then  ends  of  pan 
and  paper  are  buttered. 

In  filling  pans,  have  the  mixture  come  well  to  the  corners 
and  sides  of  pans,  leaving  a  slight  depression  in  the  centre, 
and  when  baked  the  cake  will  be  perfectly  flat  on  top.  Cake 
pans  should  be  filled  nearly  two-thirds  full  if  cake  is  expected 
to  rise  to  top  of  pan. 

To  Bake  Cake.  The  baking  of  cake  is  more  critical  than 
the  mixing.  Many  a  well- mixed  cake  has  been  spoiled  in 
the  baking.  No  oven  thermometer  has  yet  proved  practical, 
and  although  many  teachers  of  cookery  have  given  oven 
tests,  experience  alone  has  proved  the  most  reliable  teacher. 
In  baking  cake,  divide  the  time  required  into  quarters.  Dur- 
ing the  first  quarter  the  mixture  should  begin  tc  rise  j  second^ 


600  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

quarter,  continue  rising  and  begin  tx)  brown ;  third  quarter, 
continue  browning ;  fourth  quarter,  finish  baking  and  shrink 
from  pan.  If  oven  is  too  hot,  open  check  aad  raise  back 
covers,  or  leave  oven  door  ajar.  It  is  sometimes  necessary 
to  cover  cake  with  brown  paper;  there  is,  however,  danger 
of  cake  adhering  to  paper.  Cake  should  be  often  looked  at 
during  baking,  and  providing  oven  door  is  opened  and  closed 
carefully,  there  is  no  danger  of  this  causing  cake  to  fall. 
Cake  should  not  be  moved  in  oven  until  it  has  risen  its  full 
height;  after  this  it  is  usually  desirable  to  move  it  that  it 
may  be  evenly  browned.  Cake  when  done  shrinks  from  the 
pan,  and  in  most  cases  this  is  a  sufficient  test ;  however,  in 
pound  cakes  this  rule  does  not  apply.  Pound  and  rich  fruit 
cakes  are  tested  by  pressing  surface  with  tip  of  finger.  If 
cake  feels  firm  to  touch  and  follows  finger  back  into  place, 
it  is  safe  to  remove  it  from  the  oven.  When  baking  cake 
arrange  to  have  nothing  else  in  the  oven,  and  place  loaf  or 
loaves  as  near  the  centre  of  oven  as  possible.  If  placed  close 
to  fire  box,  one  side  of  loaf  is  apt  to  become  burned  before 
sufficiently  risen  to  turn.  If  cake  is  put  in  too  slow  an  oven, 
it  often  rises  over  sides  of  pan  and  is  of  very  coarse  texture ; 
if  put  in  too  hot  an  oven,  it  browns  on  top  before  sufficiently 
risen,  and  in  its  attempt  to  rise  breaks  through  the  crust, 
thus  making  an  unsightly  loaf.  Cake  will  also  crack  on  top 
if  too  much  flour  has  been  used.  The  oven  should  be  kept 
at  as  nearly  uniform  temperature  as  possible.  Small  and 
layer  cakes  require  a  hotter  oven  than  loaf  cakes. 

To  Remove  Cake  From  Pans.  Remove  cake  from  pans 
as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  oven,  by  inverting -pan  on  a 
wire  cake  cooler,  or  on  a  board  covered  with  a  piece  of  old 
linen.  If  cake  is  inclined  to  stick,  do  not  hurry  it  from  pan, 
but  loosen  with  knife  around  edges,  and  rest  pan  on  its  four 
sides  successively;  thus  by  its  own  weight  cake  may  be 
helped  out. 

To  Frost  Cake.  Where  cooked  frostings  are  used,  it 
makes  but  little  difference  whether  they  are  spread  on  hot 
or  cold  cake.  Where  uncooked  frostings  are  used,  it  is  best 
to  have  the  c^ke  slightly  warm,  with  the  exception  of  Con- 
fectioners' Frosting,  where  boiling  water  is  employed. 


CAKE  601 

0 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  2  eggs  Whites  two  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

^  cup  hot  water  or  milk  1%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

y^  teaspoon  lemon  extract  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add 
one-half  the  sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating ;  then 
add  water,  remaining  sugar,  lemon  extract,  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  until  stiff,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  bak- 
ing powder  and  salt.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven  in  a  buttered  and  floured  shallow  pan. 

Clieap  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  3  eggs  1  >a  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  i^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  hot  water  Whites  3  eggs 

1  cup  flour  2  teaspoons  vinegar 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add 
sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating ;  then  add  water,  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  vinegar.  Bake  thirty-five 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  in  a  buttered  and  floured  cake 
pan. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  4  eggs  Flour 

1  cup  sugar  Ij^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  %  teaspoon  salt 

1%  tablespoons  com -starch  Whites  4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Beat  yoiks  of  eggs  and  water  until  thick  and  lemon- 
colored,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  beat  tw&^*minutes.  Put 
corn-starch  in  a  cup  and  fill  cup  with  flour.  Mix  and  sift 
corn- starch  and  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  add 
to  first  mixture.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  flavoring.  Bake  thirty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  This  is  aa  excellent  mixture  to  use  for 
whipped  cream  pies  or  to  bake  in  an  angel  cake  pan. 


502  BOSTOI^  COOIONG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Petit  Four 

Follow  recipe  for  Cream  Sponge  Cake.  Bake  in  a  shallow  i 
pan,  cool,  and  shape-,  using  a  small  round  cutter.  Split,  and 
remove  a  small  portion  of  cake  from  the  centre  of  each 
piece.  Fill  cavities  of  one-half  the  pieces  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored,  cover  with  remaining  pieces, 
and  press  firmly  together.  Nuts  or  glace  fruits  cut  in  pieces 
may  be  added  to  cream.  Melt  fondant,  color,  and  flavor  to 
taste.  Dip  cakes  in  fondant,  decorate  tops  with  pistachio 
nuts,  violets,  or  glace  cherries,  and  place  each  in  a  paper 
case. 

Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  6  eggs  Grated  rind  one-half  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  6  eggs 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  cup  flour 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add  sugar  * 
gradually,  and  continue  beating,  using  egg-beater.  Add 
lemon  juice,  rind,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and 
dry.  When  whites  are  partially  mixed  with  yolks,  remove 
beater,  and  carefully  cut  and  fold  in  flour  mixed  and  sifted 
with  salt.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven,  in  an  angel  cake 
pan  or  deep  narrow  pan. 

Genuine  sponge  cake  contains  no  rising  properties,  but  is 
made  light  by  the  quantity  of  air  beaten  into  both  yolks  and 
whites  of  eggs,  and  the  expansion  of  that  air  in  baking.  It 
requires  a  slow  oven.  All  so-called  sponge  cakes  which  have 
the  addition  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  or  baking  powder 
require  same  oven  temperature  as  butter  cakes.  When 
failures  are  made  in  Sunshine  and  Angel  Cake,  they  are 
usually  traced  to  baking  in  too  slow  an  oven,  and  removing 
from  oven  before  thoroughly  cooked. 

Sunshine  Cake 
Whites  10  eggs  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

\%  cups  powdered  sugar  1  cup  flour 

Yolks  6  eggs  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, and  continue  beating ;  then  add  yolka  of  eggs  beaten 


OAKB  508 

until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and  extract.  Cut  and  fold 
in  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  fiftj^ 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  in  an  angel-cake  pan. 

Mocha  Cake 

• 

To  one-half  recipe  for  Sunshine  Cake  add  one-half  cup 
English  walnut  meats  broken  in  pieces.  Bake  in  a  medium- 
sized  angel-cake  pan;  cool,  split,  and  fill  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  coffee  essence.  Cover 
top  with  Confectioners*  Frosting,  flavored  with  coffee  essence,  ^ 

Angel  Cake 

Whites  8  eggs  %  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar        ^^  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vauilla 

.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  frothy ;  add  cream  of  tartar,  and 
continue  beating  until  eggs  are  stiff ;  then  add  sugar  grad- 
ually. Fold  in  flour  mixed  with  salt  and  sifted  four  times, 
and  add  vanilla.  Bake  forty-five  to  fifty  minutes  in  an 
unbuttered  angel-cake  pan.  After  cake  has  risen  and  begins 
to  brown,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper. 

Moonshine  Cake 

Whites  10  eggs  Yolks  7  eggs 

^  teaspoon  salt  1%  cups  sugar 

%  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

1  cup  pastry  flour 

Add  salt  to  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  light.  Sift  in 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff.  Beat  yolks  of  Qgg^ 
until  thick  and  lemon  colored  and  add  two  heaping  table- 
spoons beaten  whites.  To  remaining  whites  add  gradually 
sugar  measured  after  five  siftings.  Add  almond  extract 
and  combine  mixtures.  Cut  and  fold  in  flour,  measured 
after  five  siftings.  Bake  in  angel-cake  pan,  first  dipped  in 
cold  water,  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour.  Have  a  pan  of  hot 
water  in  oven  during  the  baking.     Cover  with 

Maraschino  Frosting.  Follow  recipe  for  Ice  Cream  Frost- 
ing (see  p.  528),  adding  to  sugar  one-half  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  and  flavor  with  maraschino.  Sprinkle  with  almonds 
blanched,  shredded,  and  baked  until  delicately  browned. 


604  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Lady  Fingers 

.^    Whites  3  eggs  }4  cup  flour 

^  cup  powdered  sugar  i^  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  2  eggs  )^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, and  continue  beating.  Then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  ahd  flavoring.  Cut  and  fold 
in  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt.  Shape  four  and  one-half 
inches  long  and  one  inch  wide  on  a  tin  sheet  covered  with 
unbuttered  paper,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  eight  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Remove  from  paper  with  a  knife.  Lady  Fingers  are 
much  used  for  lining  moulds  that  are  to  be  filled  with 
whipped  cream  mixtures.  They  are  often  served  with 
frozen  desserts,  and  sometimes  put  together  in  pairs  with  a 
thin  coating  of  whipped  cream  between,  when  they  are 
attractive  for  children's  parties. 

Sponge  Drops 

Drop  Lady  Finger  mixture  from  tip  of  spoon  on  unbut- 
tered -paper.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  eight 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Almond  Tart 

4  eggs  J4  cup  Jordan  almonds,  blanched 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  finely  chopped 

1^  cup  grated  chocolate       1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
^  cup  cracker  dust 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lem'on-colored ;  add 
sugar  gradually,  then  fold  in  white  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff 
and  dry.  Add  chocolate,  almonds,  baking  powder,  and 
cracker  dust.  Bake  in  a  round  pan.  Cool,  split,  and  put 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  between  and  on 
top.  Garnish  with  angelica  and  candied  cherries.  This 
makes  a  most  attractive  dessert  when  baked  in  individual 
tins.  As  soon  as  cool,  remove  centres,  and  fill  with  whipped 
cream,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag. 


CAKB  "  605 

JeUy  RoU 
8  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

%  tablespoon  milk  1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Beat  ^g%  until  light,  add  sugar  gradually,  milk,  floui 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  then  butter. 
Line  the  bottom  of  a  dripping-pan  with  paper ;  butter  paper 
and  sides  of  pan.  Cover  bottom  of  pan  with  mixture,  and 
spread  evenly.  Bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Take  from  oven  and  turn  on  a  paper  sprinkled  with  powdered 
sugar.  Quickly  remove  paper,  and  cut  off  a  thin  strip  from 
sides  and  ends  of  cake.  Spread  with  jelly  or  jam  which  has 
been  beaten  to  consistency  to  spread  easily,  and  roll.  After 
cake  has  been  rolled,  roll  paper  around  cake  that  it  may 
better  keep  in  shape.  The  work  must  be  done  quickly,  or 
cake  will  crack  in  rolling. 

Election  Cake 

%  cup  butter  8  finely  chopped  figs 

1  cup  bread  dough  *  V^  cups  flour 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  cup  sour  milk  i^  teaspoon  clove 

Jy^  cup  raisins  seeded,  and  ^  teaspoon  mace 

cut  in  pieces  3^  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Work  butter  into  dough,  using  the  hand.  Add  egg  well 
beaten,  sugar,  milk,  fruit  dredged  with  two  tablespoons 
flour,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  remaining  ingredients. 
Put  into  a  well-buttered  bread  pan,  cover,  and  let  rise  one 
and  one-fourth  hours.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Cover  with  Boiled  Milk  Frosting. 

One  Egg  Cake 

^  cup  of  butter  %  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  \}4.  cups  flour 

1  ^^;g  2%,  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  ^g^  well 
beaten.    Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder,  add  alter- 


506  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

nately  with  milk  to  first  mixture.     Bake  thirty  minutes  in 
a  shallow  pan.     Spread  with  Chocolate  Prosting. 

Cbocolate  Cake  I 

)^  cup  butter  1%  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2)^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  small  eggs  2  ozs.  chocolate,  melted 
%  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  then  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Add 
milk,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Then  add  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Bake  forty 
minutes  in  a  shallow  cake  pan. 

Chocolate  Cake  II 

.    ^  cup  butter  34  teaspoon  soda 

1%  cups  sugar  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

%  cup  milk  Whites  5  eggs 

2^  cups  flour  2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate, 

grated 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,  milk,  and  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs,  and  add  to  first  mixture  ;  then  add  chocolate,  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Chocolate  Marshmallow  Cake 

Follow  receipe  for  Chocolate  Cake  11.  As  soon  as  cake 
is  removed  from  pan,  cover  bottom  with  marshmallows 
pulled  apart  with  tips  of  fingers,  but  not  quite  separated  into 
halves.  The  exposed  soft  surface  will  quickly  adhere  to  hot 
cake.    Pour  over  Chocolate  Fudge  Frosting. 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 

^  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1}4  cups  powdered  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  eg^  2  squares  chocolate,  melted 

1  cup  milk  y^  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  cups  bread  flour  %  cup  almonds,  blanched 

and  shredded 
Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  and  egg  unbeaten ;  when  well  mixed,  add  two-thirds 


CAKE  507 

milk,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baKing  powder,  and 
vanilla.  To  melted  chocolate  add  one-third  cup  powdered 
sugar,  place  on  range,  add  gradually  remaining  milk,  and 
cook  until  smooth.  Cool  slightly,  and  add  to  cake  mixture. 
Bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in  round  layer  cake  pans. 
Put  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake  White  Mountain 
Cream  sprinkled  with  almonds. 

Chocolate  Dominoes 

%  cup  pecan  nut  meat  %,  cup  dates 

y^  cup  English  walnut  meat  Grated  rind  1  orange 

%  cup  figs  1  tablespoon  orange  juice 

1  square  chocolate,  melted 

Mix  nut  meats,  figs,  and  dates,  and  force  through  a 
meat  chopper,  or  chop  finely.  Add  remaining  ingredients, 
toss  on  a  board  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar,  and  roll  to 
one-third  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  in  domino  shapes,  spread 
thinly  with  melted  unsweetened  chocolate,  and  decorate 
with  small  pieces  blanched  almonds  to  imitate  dominoes. 

Cream  Pie  I 

y^  cup  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  \%  cups  flour 

2  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2)^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  as  One  Egg  Cake.  Bake  in  round  layer  cake  pans. 
Put  Cream  Filling  between  layers  and  sprinkle  top  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Cream  Pie  II 

Make  as  Cream  Pie  I,  using  French  Cream  Filling  in 
place  of  Cream  Filling. 

Cocoanut  Pie 

Mix  and  bake  same  as  Cream  Pie.  Put  Cocoanut  Filling 
between  layers  and  on  top. 

"Washington  Pie 

Mix  and  bake  same  as  Cream  Pie.  Put  raspberry  jam  or 
jelly  between  layers  and  sprinkle  top  with  powdered  sugar. 


608  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chocolate  Pie 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  milk 

X  cup  sugar  V/^  cups  flour 

1  Qgg  *     2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  bake  same  as  Cream  Fie.  Split  layers,  and 
spread  between  and  on  top  of  each  a  thin  layer  of  Chocolate 
Frosting. 

Orange  Cake 
^  cup  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  \%  cups  flour 

2  eggs  *  ^%  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten, 

and  milk.  Then  add  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  a  thin  slieet  in  a  dripping-pan.  Cut  in 
halves,  spread  one-half  with  Orange  Filling.  Put  over 
other  half,  and  cover  with  Orange  Frosting. 

Quick  Cake 

3^  cup  soft  butter  1^  cups  flour 

\y^  cups  brown  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^  cup  milk  y^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

%  Ih.  dates,  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces 

Put  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  beat  all  together  for  three 
minutes,  using  a  wooden  cake  spoon.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
and  floured  cake  pan  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes.  If  direc- 
tions are  followed  this  makes  a  most  satisfactory  cake ; 
but  if  ingredients  are  added  separately  it  will  not  prove 
a  success. 

Boston  Favorite  Cake 

^  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  3>^  cups  flour 

4  eggs  '  %  teaspoon  salt 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  beaten  until 
light,  then  milk  and  flour  mjxed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder.  This  recipe  makes  two  loaves,  or  one-half  the 
mixture  may  be  baked  iu  individual  tins. 


CAKB  609 

Cream  Cake 

2  eggs  23^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  thin  cream  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1^  cups  flour  ^  teaspoon  mace 

y^  teaspoon  ginger 

Put  unbeaten  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  sugar  and  cream,  and 

beat  vigorously.     Mix  and  sift  remaining  ingredients,  then 

add  to  first  mixture.     Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  shallow  cake 

pan. 

Currant  Cake 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Yolk  1  ^gg  1  cup  currants  mixed  with 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  eggs  and  Qg% 
yolk  well  beaten.  Then  add  milk,  flour  mixed  and  sifted 
with  baking  powder,  and  currants.  Bake  forty  minutes  in 
buttered  and  floured  cake  pan. 

Citron  Cake 

%  lb.  butter  %  lb.  flour 

%  lb.  sugar  1  tablespoon  brandy 

3  eggs  1  cup  citron,  thinly  sliced, 


cup  milk  then  cut  in  strips 


\%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  milk,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  and  add  to  first 
mixture,  then  add  brandy  and  citron.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  one  hour. 

Velvet  Cake 

%  cup  batter  \%  cups  flour 

13^  cups  sugar  %  cup  corn-starch 

Yolks  4  eggs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  cold  water  Whites  4  eggs 

%  cup  almonds,  blanched,  and  shredded 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  and   water.     Mix   and  sift  flour,  corn-starch,  and 


510  BOSTON  COOKTKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

baking  powder,  and  add  to  first  mixture ;  then  add  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  After  putting  in  pan,  cover  with 
almonds  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  forty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

"Walnut  Cake 

%  cup  butter  1/^  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2^^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yolks  3  eggs  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  milk  %^  cup  walnut   meat,   broken 

1^  teaspoon  salt  in  pieces 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Bake  forty-five  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  White  Mountain  Cream, 
crease  in  squares,  and  put  one-half  walnut  on  each  square. 

Spanish  Cake 

%  cup  butter  \\  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Yolks  2  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y^  cup  milk  Whites  2  eggs 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Bake  in  shallow  tins  and 
spread  between  and  on  top  Caramel  Frosting. 

Cup  Cakes 

%  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  3^  cups  flour 

4  eggs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

J^  teaspoon  mace 

Put  butter  and  sugar  in  a  bowl,  and  stir  until  well  mixed ; 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  milk,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted 
with  baking  powder  and  mace.  Bake  in  individual  tins. 
Covei#with  Chocolate  Frosting. 

Cinnamon  Cakes 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  j)^  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  and  bake  in  individual 
butteiied  cake  tins. 


CAKE  611 

Almond  Cakes 
)i  cup  butter  2  eggs 

^  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour  . 

3^  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  in  pieces 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  bake  in  individual 
cake  pans. 

Brownies 

^  cup  butter      •  1  egg,  well  beaten 

}{  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  bread  flour 

1^  cup  Porto  Rico  molasses         1  cup  pecan  meat,  cut  in  pieces 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Bake  in  small  shallow 
fancy  cake  tins,  garnishing  top  of  each  cake  with  one-half 
pecan. 

Chocolate  Sponge 
)4  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^  cup  prepared  powdered  cocoa  i^  teaspoon  clove 

3  eggs  }^  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter:  add  cocoa,  yolks  of  eggs' well  beaten, 
sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon  and  clove,  and  water.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  add  to  first  mixture  alternately  with 
flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Bake  in  small 
tins  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Devil's  Food  Cake  I 
^  cup  butter  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  )^  teaspoon  salt 
Yolks  4  eggs  Whites  4  eggs 

1  cup  milk  4  squares  chocolate 

2%  cups  flour  1^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  gradually  one-half  the  sugar. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and  add 
gradually  remaining  sugar.  Combine*  mixtures,  and  add 
alternately  milk  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder  afid  salt;  then  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
chocolate  melted,  and  vanilla.  Bake  forty-five  to  fifty  min- 
utes in  an  angel  cake  pan.  Cover  with  White  Mountain 
Cream  (see  p.  528). 


612  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Devil's  Food  Cake  II 

4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate        ^  cup  sugar 
%_  cup  sugar  )^  cup  sour  milk 

%  cup  sweet  milk  1  q%% 

Yolk  1  Qgg  \%  cups  flour 

^  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  soda 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  one-half  cup  sugar, 
and  gradually  sweet  milk ;  then  add  yolk  of  egg,  and  cook 
until  mixture  thickens.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Cream  the  but- 
ter, add  gradually  one-half  cup  sugar,  egg  well  beaten,  sour 
milk,  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  soda.  Combine  mix- 
tures and  add  vanilla.  Bake  in  shallow  cake  pans,  and  put 
between  and  on  top  boiled  frosting.  Add  to  filling  one- 
fourth  cup  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces,  if  desired* 

Chocolate  Vienna  Cake 

^  cup  butter  \}4.  cups  flour 

%  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yolks  5  eggs  Whites  5  eggs 

4  squares  Baker^s  chocolate  Apricot  or  Orange  Marmalade 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  bake  in  small  tins. 
Remove  from  tins,  cool,  take  out  a  small  portion  of  cake 
from  the  centre  of  each,  and  fill  cavity  with  marmalade. 
Cover  tops  of  cake  with  Marshmallow  Frosting  or  Chocolate 
Frosting  IV. 

Chocolate  Fruit  Cake 

y^  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  y^  cup  candied  cherries 

^  cup  breakfast  cocoa  y^  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 
Yolks  3  eggs  cut  in  pieces 

3^  cup  cold  water  \%  tablespoons  brandy 

1)^  cups  bread  flour  ^  cup  walnut  meats,  cut 
3  teaspoons  baking  in  pieces 

powder  Whites  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cover  fruit  with  brandy  and  let  stand  several  hours.  Mix 
ingredients  in  order  given,  and  bake  in  deep  cake  pan  fifty 
minutes.     Cover  with  White  Mountain  Cream,  and  as 


CAKE  513 

as  frosting  is  set,  spread  as  thinly  as  possible  with  melted 
chocolate. 

Ribbon  Cake 

%  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  sugar  ^  teaspoon  mace 

Yolks  4  eggs  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  milk  y^  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

3K  cups  flour  cut  in  pieces 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  Y^  cup  figs,  finely  chopped 

Whites  4  eggs  1  tablespoon  molasses 

Mix  first  seven  ingredients  in  order  given.  Bake  two- 
thirds  of  the  mixture  in  two  layer-cake  pans.  To  the  remain- 
der add  spices,  fruit,  and  molasses,  and  bake  in  a  layer-cake 
pan.  Put  layers  together  with  jelly  (apple  usually  being 
preferred,  as  it  has  less  flavor),  having  the  dark  layer  in  the 
centre. 

Golden  Spice  Cake 

%  cup  butter  2)^  cups  flour 

%  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  soda 

Yolks  4  eggs  ]4.  teaspoon  clove 

%  cup  molasses  ^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

^  cup  milk  Few  grains  cayenne 
Few  gratings  lemon  rind 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg  and  yolks  of 
eggs  well  beaten,  molasses,  milk,  flour,  mixed  and  sifted 
with  spices,  cayenne,  and  lemon  rind.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  one  hour,  and  cover  with  White  Mountain  Cream  (see 
p.  528). 

Walnut  Mocha  Cake 

%  cup  butter  1^  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2)^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

}^  cup  coffee  infusion  Whites  3  eggs 

%  cup  walnut  meats,  broken  in  pieces 

Follow  directions  for  mixing  butter  cake  mixtures.  Cover 
with  Confectioners'  Frosting,  using  cream,  and  flavoring  with 
vanilla. 


514 


BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Birthday  Cake 


%  cup  butter 

1)^  cups  brown  sugar 

Yolks  2  eggs 

^  cup  milk 

2^  cups  flour 

8j^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  orange  extract 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


2  tablespoons  Sherry 
^  cup  raisins,  seeded 

and  cut  in  pieces 
y^  cup  walnut  meats, 

cut  in  pieces 
y^  cup  currants 
2  tablespoons  candied 

orange  peel,  finely  cut 


Whites  2  eggs 

Follow  directions  for  making  butter-cake  mixtures.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  and  floured  angel  cake  pan  in  a  slow  oven  one 
and  one-quarter  hours.  Cover  with  Ornamental  Frosting 
(see  p.  532). 

Rich  Coffee  Cake 


1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs 

2  tablespoons  molasses 
1  cup  cold  boiled  coffee 
3^  cups  flour 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


%  teaspoon  clove 

%  teaspoon  mace 

%  teaspoon  allspice 

^  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

cut  in  pieces 
%  cup  currants 
y^  cup  citron,  thinly  sliced 

and  cut  in  strips 


2  tablespoons  brandy 

Follow  directions  for  making  butter-cake  mixtures.    Bake 
in  deep  cake  pans. 


Nut  Spice  Cake 


%  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

y^  cup  molasses 

Yolks  4  eggs 

1  cup  sour  milk 

2%  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


%  teaspoon  clove 

y^  nutmeg,  grated 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut 

in  pieces 
y^  cup  currants 
y^  cup  English  walnut  meats, 

cut  m  pieces 
\y^  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given.     This  recipe  makes 
two  loaveSo 


CAKE  615 


Dark  Fruit  Cake 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs 

%  cup  brown  sugar  %  cup  milk 

^  cup  jaisins,  seeded  and  2  cups  flour 

cut  in  pieces  %  teaspoon  soda 

^  cup  currants  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

%  cup  citron,  thinly  sliced  %  teaspoon  allspice 

and  cut  in  strips  %  teaspoon  mace 

%  cup  molasses  }4.  teaspoon  clove 


teaspoon  lemon  extract 


Follow  directions  for  mixing  butter  cake  mixtures.  Bake 
in  deep  cake  pans  one  and  one-quarter  hours. 

Nut  Cakes 

Meat  from  1  lb.  pecans  ^  cup  flour 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar  Whites  6  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pound  nut  meat  and  mix  with  sugar  and  flour.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  first  mixture  and  vanilla. 
Drop  from  tip  of  tablespoon  (allowing  one  spoonful  for  each 
cake)  on  a  tin  sheet  covered  with  buttered  paper.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sncw  Cake 

^  cup  butter  2^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

\%  cups  flour  ^  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  Bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  deep  narrow  pan. 

Lily  Cake 

1^  cup  butter  2%,  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  3  eggs 

%  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

W  <^^P^  f^ya  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes. 


616  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Corn-starch  Cake 

1  cup  butter  4)^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  5  eggs 

1  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

1  cup  corn-starch  }4  teaspoon  almond  extract 

2  cups  flour 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  This  mixture 
makes  two  loaves. 

Prune  Almond  Cake 

Bake  one-half  Corn-starch  Cake  mixture  in  a  dripping- 
pan.  Cut  in  two  crosswise,  spread  between  layers  Prune 
Almond  Filling,  and  cover  top  with  White  Mountain  Cream. 

Prune  Almond  Filling.  To  one-half  the  recipe  for  White 
Mountain  Cream  add  eight  soft  prunes  stoned  and  cut  in 
pieces,  and  one-fourth  cup  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in 
pieces. 

Marshmallow  Cake 

^  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1}^  cups  sugar  ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

%  cup  milk  Whites  5  eggs 

2  cups  flour  ■  ^                     1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  Bake  in  shallow 
pans,  and  put  Marshmallow  Cream  between  the  layers  and 
on  the  top. 

Pig  Eclair 

1^  cup  butter  (scant)  1%  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk  Whites  4  eggs 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.     Bake  in  shallow^ 
pans,  put  between  layers  Fig  Filling,  and  sprinkle  top  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Banana  Cake 

Mix  and  bake  Fig  ^Eclair  mixture;  put  between  layers 
White  Mountain  Cream  covered  with  thin  slices  of  banana, 
and  frost  the  top.     This  should  be  eaten  the  day  it  is  made. 


CAKE  .  617 


Bride's  Cake 

%  cup  butter  %  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

\%  cups  sugar       2%  cups  flour         ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Whites  six  eggs  %  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  Bake  forty-five  to 
fifty  minutes  in  deep,  narrow  pans.  Cover  with  white 
frosting. 

Ice  Cream  Cake 

1^  cup  butter        1  cup  milk  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  flour  Whites  4  eggs 

Vanilla 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  Bake  in  layers, 
and  put  between  layers  and  on  top  Ice  Cream  Frosting. 

Light  Fruit  Cake 

To  Fig  iSclair  mixture  add  one-half  cup  raisins  seeded 
and  cut  in  pieces,  two  ounces  citron  thinly  sliced  and  cut  in 
strips,  and  one-third  cup  walnut  meat  cut  in  pieces.  In 
making  mixture,  reserve  one  tablespoon  flour  to  use  for 
dredging  fruit. 

'White  Nut  Cake 

^  cup  butter         '^  cup  milk        %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

\y^  cups  sugar      2%  cups  flour     3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Whites  8  eggs  1  cup  walnut  meat  cut  in  pieces 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  butter  cakes.  This  mixture 
makes  two  loaves. 

Golden  Cake 

%  cup  butter        Yolks  5  eggs  %  cup  flour 

y^  cup  sugar         3€  cup  milk  \%  teaspoons  baking 

1  teaspoon  orange  extract  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  yolks  of  egg8 
beaten  until  thick  and  lemon- colored,  and  extract.  Mix  and 
sift  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  add  alternately  with  milk 
to  first  mixture.  Omit  orange  extract,  add  one-half  cup  nut 
meat  cut  iu  small  pieces,  and  bake  in  individual  tins. 


618  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Mocha  Cakes 

Bake  a  sponge  cake  mixture  in  sheets.  Shape  in  small 
rounds,  and  cut  in  three  layers.  Put  layers  together  with  a 
thin  coating  of  frosting.  Spread  frosting  around  sides  and 
roll  in  shredded  cocoanut.  Ornament  top  with  frosting 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  using  the  rose  tube. 
Begin  at  centre  of  top  and  coil  frosting  around  until  surface 
is  covered.     Garnish  centre  of  top  with  a  candied  cherry. 

Frosting.  Wash  one-third  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  pow- 
dered sugar  gradually,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Then  add  one 
cup  Cream  Filling  which  has  been  cooled.  Flavor  with  one- 
half  teaspoon  vanilla  and  one  and  one-half  squares  melted 
chocolate. 

This  frosting  is  sometimes  colored  pink,  yellow,  green,  or 
lavender,  and  flavored  with  rose,  vanilla,  or  a  combination 
of  almond  and  vanilla.  Large  Mocba  Cakes  are  baked  in 
two  round  layer  cake  tins,  each  cake  being  cut  in  two  layers. 
Layers  are  put  together  as  small  cakes.  The  top  is  spread 
smoothly  with  frosting,  then  ornamented  with  large  pieces 
of  candied  fruits  arranged  in  a  design,  and  frosting  forced 
through  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Cream  Cakes 

^  cup  butter  4  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  flour 

Pour  butter  and  water  in  saucepan  and  place  on  front  of 
range.  As  soon  as  boiling-point  is  reached,  add  flour  all  at 
once,  and  stir  vigorously.  Kemove  from  fire  as  soon  as 
mixed,  and  add  unbeaten  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating,  until 
thoroughly  mixed,  betWeen  the  addition  of  eggs.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  sheet,  one  and  one-half  inches  apart, 
shaping  with  handle  of  spoon  as  nearly  circular  as  possible, 
having  mixture  slightly  piled  in  centre.  Bake  thirty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  a  cut  in  each 
large  enough  to  admit  of  Cream  Filling.  This  recipe  makes 
eighteen  small  cream  cakes.  For  flavoring  cream  filling  use 
lemon  extract.  If  cream  cakes  are  removed  from  oven 
before  being  thoroughly  cooked,  they  will  fall.     If  in  doubt. 


CAKE  519 

take  one  from  oven,  and  if  it  does  not  fall,  this  is  sufficient 
proof  that  others  are  cooked. 

French  Cream  Cakes 

Fill  Cream  Cakes  with  Cream  Sauce  I. 

French  Strawberry  Cream  Cakes 

Shape  cream  cake  mixture  oblong,  making  twelve  cakes. 
Split,  and  fill  with  Strawberry  Cream  Filling. 

Eclairs 

Shape  cream  cake  mixture  four  and  one-half  inches  long 
by  one  inch  wide,  by  forcing  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 
Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Split,  and  fill 
with  vanilla,  coffee,  or  chocolate  cream  filling.  Frost  with 
Confectioners'  Frosting  to  which  is  added  one-third  cup 
melted  Fondant,  dipping  top  of  eclairs  in  frosting  while  it  is 
hot. 

Lemon  Queens 

^  lb.  butter  Yolks  4  eggs 

%  lb.  sugar  5  ozs.  flour 

Grated  rind  1  lemon  ^  teaspoon  salt 

%  tablespoon  lemon  juice  3^  teaspoon  soda  (scant) 

Whites  4  eggs 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  continue 
beating.  Then  add  grated  rind,  lemon  juice,  and  yolks  of 
eggs  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored.  Mix  and  sift 
soda,  salt,  and  flour;  add  to  first  mixture  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes  in  small  tins. 

Queen  Cake  jl 

%  cup  butter  Whites  6  eggs 

2  cups  flour  (scant)  IJ^  cups  powdered  sugar 

^  teaspoon  soda  \%  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  flour  gradually,  mixed  and  sifted 
with  soda,  then  add  lemon  juice.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until 
stiff;  add  sugar  gradually,  and  combine  the  mixtures.  Bake 
fifty  minutes  in  a  long  shallow  pan.  Cover  with  Opera  Cara- 
mel Frosting, 


620  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOBL 

Pound  Cake 

1  lb.  butter  Whites  10  eggs 

1  lb.  sugar  1  lb.  flour 

Yolks  10  eggs  %  teaspoon  mace 

2  tablespoons  brandy 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beat- 
ing; then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon- 
colored,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry,  flour, 
mace,  and  brandy.  Beat  vigorously  five  minutes.  Bake  in 
a  deep  pan  one  and  one-fourth  hours  in  a  slow  oven  ;  or  if  to 
be  used  for  fancy  ornamented  cakes,  bake  thirty  to  thirty- 
five  minutes  in  a  dripping-pan. 

Ne^v^  York  Gingerbread 

1  cup  butter  (scant)  5  eggs 

\%  cups  flour  \%  cups  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  yellow  ginger  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter,  and  add  flour  gradually,  mixed  and 
sifted  with  ginger.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until  thick 
and  lemon-colored,  and  add  sugar  gradually.  Combine  mix- 
tures, add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  sift  over 
baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  a  buttered  deep 
cake  pan,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

New^port  Pound  Cake 

Make  same  as  New  York  Gingerbread,  omitting  ginger, 
and  substituting  one  teaspoon  vanilla  extract. 

Christmas  Cakes 

Bake  Newport  Pound  Cake  in  golden-rod  pans,  cut  in 
fourths  crosswise,  spread  with  Ice  Cream  Frosting,  and  gar» 
nish  with  green  leaves,  made  from  ornamental  frosting,  and 
round  red  candies  to  imitate  berries. 

Ginger  Pound  Cakes 

Cream  one-half  pound  butter  and  add  gradually  one-half 
pound  sugar,  continuing  the  beating.  Add  three-fourths 
pound  flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder  alternately  with  four  eggs   beaten  until  thick   and 


CAKE  621 

lemon-colored ;  then  add  one-half  pound  Canton  ginger  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Bake  in  small  buttered  and  floured  individual 
ciake  pans  in  a  slow  oven.  Cover  with  White  Mountain 
Cream  (see  p.  528). 

Molasses  Found  Cake 

^  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  soda 

^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  %  teaspoon  allspice 

%  cup  milk  J^  teaspoon  clove 

%  cup  molasses  ^  teaspoon  mace 

2}'^  cups  flour  %  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

cut  in  pieces 
%  cup  citron,  thinly  sliced  and  cut  in  strips 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  milk  and  molasses.  Mix  and  sift  flour  with  soda  and 
spices,  and  add  to  first  mixture,  then  add  fruit.  Bake  in 
small  buttered  tins  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  This  recipe  makes  twenty-four  little 
cakes. 

English  Fruit  Cake 

1  lb.  butter  2  tablespoons  milk  * 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar  3  lbs.  currants 

9  eggs  2  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and 

1  lb.  flour  finely  chopped 

2  teaspoons  mace  %  lb.  almonds,  blanched  and 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon  shredded 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  lb.  citron,  thinly  sliced  and 

cut  in  strips 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly.  Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs;  beat  yolks 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  whites  until  stiff  and  dry,  and 
add  to  first  mixture.  Then  add  milk,  fruit,  nuts,  and  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  mace,  cinnamon,  and  soda.  Put  in 
buttered  deep  pans,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  steam  three 
hours,  and  bake  one  and  one  half  hours  in  a  slow  oven, 
or  bake  four  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven.  Rich  fruit  cake 
is  always  more  satisfactory  when  done  if  the  cooking  is 
accomplished  by  steaming. 


522  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Wedding  Cake  I 

1  lb.  butter  K  teaspoon  clove 

1  lb.  sugar  3  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and 

12  eggs  cut  in  pieces 

1  lb.  flour  1  lb.  currants 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  1  lb.  citron,  thinly  sliced 
IN'utmeg^  and  cut  in  strips 
Allspice  [^  teaspoon  ^  j^  ^^^^  ^^^^j^  chopped 

Mace      )         ^^^^  ^  cup  brandy 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs,  beat  yolks  untir  thick 
and  lemon- colored,  whites  until  stiff  and  dry,  and  add  to  first 
mixture.  Add  flour  (excepting  one-third  cup,  which  should 
be  reserved  to  dredge  fruit)  mixed  and  sifted  with  spices, 
brandy,  and  lemon  juice.  Then  add  fruit,  except  citron, 
dredged  with  reserved  flour.  Dredge  citron  with  flour  and 
put  in  layers  between  cake  mixture  when  putting  in  the  pan. 
Bake  same  as  English  Fruit  Cake. 

Wedding  Cake  II 

1  lb.  butter  8  lbs.  raisins,  seeded  and  cut 
1  lb.  brown  sugar  in  pieces 

12  eggs  2  lbs.  Sultana  raisins 

1  cup  molasses  1}^  lbs.  citron,  thinly  sliced 
1  lb.  flour  and  cut  in  strips 

4  teaspoons  cinnamon  1  lb.  currants 

4  teaspoons  allspice  ^  preserved  lemon  rind 

1}^  teaspoons  mace  }^  preserved  orange  rind 

1  nutmeg,  grated  1  cup  brandy 

^  teaspoon  soda  4  squares  chocolate,  melted 
1  tablespoon  hot  water 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs,  and  beat  yolks  until 
thick  and  lemon-colored.  Add  to  first  mixture,  then  add 
flour  (excepting  one  third  cup,  which  should  be  reserved  to 
dredge  fruit),  mixed  and  sifted  with  spices,  fruit  dredged 
with  flour,  lemon  rind  and  orange  rind  finely  chopped,  brandy. 
chocolate,  and  whites  of  eggB  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry. 


CAKE 

Just  before  putting  into  pans,  add  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water.  Cover  pans  with  buttered  paper,  and  steam  four 
hours.  Finish  cooking  by  leaving  in  a  warm  oven  over 
niffbt. 


Imperia] 

L  Cake 

1^  lb.  butter 

1^  lb.  raisins,  seeded  and 

%  lb.  sugar 

cut  in  pieces 

Yolks  5  eggs 

%  cup  walnut  meat,  broken 

Whites  5  eggs 

in  pieces 

Grated  rind  >|  lemon 

%  lb.  flour 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

^  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  same  as  Pound  Cake, 

adding  raisins  dredged  with 

dour,  and  nuts  at  the  last 

624  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER  XXXII 
CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS 

Cream  Filling 

%  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

y^  cup  flour  2  cups  scalded  milk 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

%  teaspoon  lemon  extract 
Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  pour 
on  gradually  scalded  milk.     Cook  fifteen  minutes  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened,  afterwards  occa- 
sionally.    Cool  and  flavor. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling 

Put  one  and  one-fourth  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 
in  a  saucepan  and  ♦^elt  over  hot  water.  Add  to  Cream 
Filling,  using  in  making  one  cup  sugar  in  place  of  seven- 
eighths  cup. 

Coffee  Cream  Filling 

Scald  milk  with  two  tablespoons  ground  coffee,  strain, 
and  make  same  as  Cream  Filling. 

French  Cream  Filling 

%  cup  thick  cream  i^  cup  powdered  sugar 

^  cup  milk  White  one  egg 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dilute  cream  with  milk  and  beat  until  stiff,  using  Dover 
egg-beater.  Add  sugar,  white  of  ^gg  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
vanilla. 

-  Strawberry  Filling 
1  cup  thick  cream  White  1  ^gg 

y^  cup  sugar  ^  cup  strawberries 

%  teaspoon  vanilla^ 

Beat  cream  until  stiff,  using  Dover  egg-beater,  add  sugar, 
white  of  egg  beaten  until  stiff,  strawberries  mashed,  and 
*Yanilla. 


CAKE  FILLINGS   AND   FROSTINGS  525 

Lemon  Filling 

1  cup  sugar  >^  cup  lemon  juice 

2)^  tablespoons  flour  1  egg 

Grated  riud  2  lemons  1  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  grated  rind,  lemon  juice,  and 
egg  slightly  beaten.  Put  butter  in  saucepan ;  when  melted, 
add  mixture,  and  stir  constantly  until  boiling-point  is 
reached.  Care  must  be  taken  that  mixture  does  not  ad- 
here to  bottom  of  saucepan.     Cool  before  spreading. 

Orange  Filling 

%  cup  sugar  )^  cup  orange  juice 

23^  tablespoons  flour  y^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Grated  rind  %  orange  1  ^^g  slightly  beaten. 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cook  ten  minutes  in 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.     Cool  before  spreading. 


Chocolate  Filling 

itened  chocolate 
1  cup  powdered  sugar  Yolk  1  ^gg 


2%  squares  unsweetened  chocolate         3  tablespoons  milk       j^ 


%  teaspoon  vanilla^  \     ^ 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  one-half  the  sugar,  and 
milk ;  add  remaining  sugar,  and  yolk  of  egg ;  then  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly  at  first, 
that  mixture  may  be  perfectly  smooth.  Cool  slightly,  flavor, 
and  spread. 

Nut  or    Fruit  Filling 

To  White  Mountain  Cream  add  chopped  walnuts,  almonds, 
figs,  dates,  or  raisins,  separately  or  in  combination. 

Cocoanut  Filling 
Whites  2  eggs  Fresh  grated  cpcoanut 

Powdered  sugar 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  on  a  platter  with  a  fork  until  stiff. 
Add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  spread.     Spread  over  cake, 
Sprinkle  thickly  with  cocoanut.     Use  for  layer  Cftke^  having 
filling  between  and  j)n  top. 


526  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Lemon  Cocoanut  Cream 

Juice  and  grated  rind  1  lemon  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

Mix  lemon  juice  and  rind  with  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs 
slightly  beaten ;  cook  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
constantly;  then  add  cocoanut.  Cool,  and  use  as  a  filling 
for  Corn-starch  Cake,  or  any  cake  made  from  the  whites 
of  eggs. 

Fig  Filling 

%  lb.  figs,  finely  chopped  y^  cup  boiling  water 

y^  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick  enough  to  spread.  Spread  while  hot. 
Figs  may  be  chopped  quickly  by  forcing  through  a  meat 
chopper,  stirring  occasionally. 

Marshmallow  Paste 

^  cup  sugar  ^  lb.  marshmallows 

^  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

%  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  sugar  and  milk  in  a  saucepan,  heat  slowly  to  boiling- 
point  without  stirring,  and  boil  six  minutes.  Break  marsh- 
mallows  in  pieces  and  melt  in  double  boiler,  add  hot  water, 
and  cook  until  mixture  is  smooth,  then  add  hot  syrup  grad- 
ually, stirring  constantly.  Beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread, 
then  add  vanilla.  This  may  be  used  for  both  filling  and 
frosting. 

Pistachio  Paste 

To  Marshmallow  Paste  add  a  few  drops  extract  of  almond, 
one-third  cup  pistachio  nuts  blanched  and  chopped,  and 
leaf  green  to  color.-    Use  same  as  Marshmallow  Paste. 

Prune  Almond  Filling 

To  White  Mountain  Cream  (see  p.  528)  add  one-half  cui^ 
selected  prunes,  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces,  and  one-third  ciqP^ 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped. 


CAKE  FILLINGS   AND   FR0STING8  627 

Confectioners'  Frosting 

2  tablespoons  boiling  water  Confectioners'  sugar 

or  cream  Flavoring 

To  liquid  add  enough  sifted  sugar  to  make  of  right  con* 
Bistency  to  spread;  then  add  flavoring.  Fresh  fruit  juice 
may  be  used  in  place  of  boiling  water.  This  is  a  most 
satisfactory  frosting,  and  is  both  easily  and  quickly  made. 

Orange  Frosting 

Grated  rind  1  orange  1  tablespoon  orange  juice 

1  teaspoon  brandy  Yolk  1  egg 

Yy  teaspoon  lemon  juice  Confectioners'  sugar 

Add  rind  to  brandy  and  fruit  juices ;  let  stand  fifteen 
minutes.  Strain,  and  add  gradually  to  yolk  of  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Stir  in  confectioners'  sugar  until  of  right  con- 
sistency to  spread. 

Gelatine  Frosting 
2j^  tablespoons  boiling  water  ^  cup  confectioners' 

%  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine  sugar 

3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  boiling  water. '  Add  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing and  beat  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread.  Crease  in 
squares  when  slightly  hardened. 

Plain  Frosting 
White  1  egg  1^  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

2  teaspoons  cold  water  i^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
^  cup  confectioners'  sugar 

Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff ;  add  water  and  sugar.  Beat 
thoroughly,  then  add  flavoring.  Use  more  sugar  if  needed. 
Spread  with  a  broad-bladed  knife. 

Chocolate  Frosting  I 

\%  squares  chocolate  Yolk  1  egg 

y^  cup  scalded  cream  %  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Few  grains  salt  Confectioners'  sugar 

y^  teaspoon  vanilla 

.^   Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  cream  gradually,  salt, 
^jj^lk  of  egg,  and  butter.     Stir  in  confectioners'  sugar  until  of 
right  consistency  to  spread;  then  add  flavoring. 


528  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chocolate  Frosting  II 

1^  cups  sugar  4  squares  chocolate,  melted 

^  cup  hot  water  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  su^ar  and  water^  without  stirring,  until  syrup  will 
thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  syrup  grad- 
ually on  melted  chocolate,  and  continue  beating  until  of  right 
consistency  to  spread ;  then  add  flavoring. 

Chocolate  Frosting  III 

2  squares  chocolate  5  tablespoons  hot  water 

1  teaspoon  butter  Confectioners'  sugar 

^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  over  boiling  water,  add  butter  and  hot 
water.  Cool,  and  add  sugar  to  make  of  right  consistency  to 
spread.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

White  Mountain  Cream 

1  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

3^  cup  cold  water  y^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

White  1  Qgg 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  and  stir  to  prevent 
sugar  from  adhering  to  saucepan;  heat  gradually  to  boiling- 
point,  and  boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon  or  tines  of  silver  fork.  Pour 
syrup  gradually  on  beaten  white  of  egg,  beating  mixture 
constantly,  and  continue  beating  until  of  right  consistency 
to  spread ;  then  add  flavoring  and  pour  over  cake,  spreading 
evenly  with  back  of  spoon.  Crease  as  soon  as  firm.  If  not 
beaten  long  enough,  frosting  will  run  ;  if  beaten  too  long,  it 
will  not  be  smooth.  Frosting  beaten  too  long  may  be  im- 
proved by  adding  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  boiling 
water.  This  frosting  is  soft  inside,  and  has  a  glossy  surface. 
If  frosting  is  to  be  ornamented  with  nuts  or  candied  cherries, 
place  them  on  frosting  as  soon  as  spread. 

Ice  Cream  Frosting 

\%  cups  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

y^  cup  water  ^  teaspoon  vanilla  m 

Follow  directions  for  White  Mountain  Cream. 


t 


CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FEOSTINGS  .  529 

Boiled  Frosting 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  water  Whites  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  or  y^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Make  same  as  White  Mountain  Cream.  This  frosting,  on 
account  of  the  larger  quantity  of  egg,  does  not  stiffen  so 
quickly  as  White  Mountain  Cream,  therefore  is  more  success- 
fully made  by  the  inexperienced. 

Boiled  Chocolate  Frosting 

To  White  Mountain  Cream  or  Boiled  Frosting  add  one  and 
one  half  squares  melted  chocolate  as  soon  as  syrup  is  added 
to  whites  of  eggs. 

Brown  Frosting 

Make  same  as  Boiled  Frosting,  using  brown  sugar  in  place 
of  white  sugar. 

Maple  Sugar  Frosting 

1  lb.  soft  maple  sugar        %  cup  boiling  water  Whites  2  eggs 

Break  sugar  in  small  pieces,  put  in  saucepan  with  boiling 
water,  and  stir  occasionally  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil 
without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from 
tip  of  spoon.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on  beaten  whites,  beat- 
ing mixture  constantly,  and  continue  beating  until  of  right 
consistency  to  spread. 

Cream  Maple  Sugar  Frosting 

1  lb.  soft  maple  sugar  1  cup  cream 

Break  sugar  in  small  pieces,  put  in  saucepan  with  cream, 
and  stir  occasionally  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  without 
stirring  until  a  ball  can  be  formed  when  mixture  is  tried  in 
cold  water.     Beat  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Milk  Frosting 

\%  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

%  cup  milk  ^  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  Put  butter  in  saucepan ;   when  melted,   add   sugar   and 
lilk.     Stir,  to  be  siire  that  sugar  does  not  adhere  to  sauce- 

34 


630  .  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

pan,  heat  to  boiling-point,  and  boil  without  stirring  thir- 
teen minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  and  beat  until  of  right 
consistency  to  spread  ;  then  add  flavoring  and  pour  over 
cake,  spreading  evenly  with  back  of  spoon.  Crease  as 
soon  as  firm. 

Carazael  Frosting  I 

Make  same  as  Milk  Frostmg,  adding  one  and  one-half 
squares  melted  chocolate  as  soon  as  boiling-point  is  reached, 
and  flavoring  with  one-eighth  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Caramel  Frostmg  II 

1}^  cups  sugar  '  }4  cup  butter 

^  cup  grated  maple  sugar  %  cup  cream 

Mix  ingredients  and  boil  thirteen  minutes.  Beat  until  of 
right  consistency  to  spread. 

Nut  Caramel  Frosting 

1^  cups  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1^  cup  water  J^  cup  Enghsh  walnut 

1^  cup  white  sugar  meats,  broken  in  pieces 

Whites  2  eggs 

Boil  sugar  and  water  as  for  White  Mountain  Cream.  Pour 
gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
and  continue  the  beating  until  mixture  is  nearly  cool.  Set 
,pan  containing  mixture  in  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  cook 
over  range,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  becomes  gran- 
ular around  edge  of  pan.  Remove  from  pan  of  hot  water 
and  beat,  using  a  spoon,  until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape. 
Add  nuts  and  vanilla,  pour  on  cake,  and  spread  with  back  of 
spoon,  leaving  a  rough  surface. 

Opera  Caramel  Frosting 

1J4  cups  brown  sugar  ^  cup  thin  cream 

^  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  ingredients  together  in  a  smooth  granite  saucepan 
until  a  ball  can  be  formed  when  mixture  is  tried  in  col 
water.     It  takes   about   forty  minutes   for   boiling.      Be! 
until  of  right  consistency  to  spread. 


CAKE   FILLINGS  AND  FROSTING S  531 

Chocolate  Fudge  Frosting 

^  \.%  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  salt 

1^  cup  unsweetened  powdered  cocoa         ^  cup  milk 
IM  c^ps  confectioners'  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter,  add  cocoa,  sugar,  salt,  and  milk.  Heat  to 
boiling-point,  and  boil  about  eight  minutes.  Remove  from 
fire  and  beat  until  creamy.    Add  vanilla  and  pour  over  cake. 

Mocha  Frosting 
^  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  breakfast  cocoa 

\y^  cups  confectioners'  sugar  Coffee  infusion 

Cream  butter,  and  add  sugar  gradually,  continuing  the 
beating ;  then  add  cocoa  and  coffee  infusion,  drop  by 
drop,  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread  or  force  through 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Fondant  Icing 

The  mixture  in  which  small  cakes  are  dipped  for  icing  is 
fondant,  the  recipe  for  which  may  be  found  in  chapter  on 
Confections.     Cakes  for  dipping  must  first  be  glazed. 

To  Glaze  Cakes.  Beat  white  of  one  Qgg  slightly,  and  add 
one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar.  Apply  with  a  brush  to  top 
and  sides  of  cakes.  After  glazing,  cakes  should  stand  over 
night  before  dipping. 

To  Dip  Cakes.  Melt  fondant  over  hot  water,  and  color 
and  flavor  as  desired.  Stir,  to  prevent  crust  from  forming 
on  top.  Take  cake  to  be  dipped  on  a  three- tined  fork  and 
lower  in  fondant  three-fourths  the  depth  of  cake.  Remove 
from  fondant,  invert,  and  slip  from  fork  to  a  board.  Deco- 
rate with  ornamental  frosting  and  nut  meat,  candied  cherries, 
angelica,  or  candied  violets.  For  small  ornamented  cakes, 
pound  cake  mixture  is  baked  a  little  more  than  one  inch 
thick  in  shallow  pans,  and  when  cool  cut  in  squares,  dia- 
monds, triangles,  circles,  crescents,  etc. 

Marshmallow  Frosting 

Melt  one  cup  white  fondant;  add  the  white  of  one  egg 
^aten  until  stiff,  and  stir  over  the  fire  two  minutes.     Re- 
>ve  from  range,   and  beat  until  of  right  consistency  to 
spread.    Flavor  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  water  white  vanilla. 


532  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

This  is  a  most  delicious  frosting  for  chocolate  cake,  but  will 
never  spread  perfectly  smooth. 

Ornamental  Frosting  I 
2  cups  suger  Whites  3  eggs 

1  cup  water  ^  3€  teaspoon  tartaric  acid 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  when  dropped  from  tip 
of  spoon  forms  a  long  thread.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beating  constantly;  then  add  acid 
and  continue  beating.  When  stiff  enough  to  spread,  put  a 
thin  coating  over  cake.  Beat  remaining  frosting  until  cold 
and  stiff  enough  to  keep  in  shape  after  being  forced  through 
a  pastry  tube.  After  first  coating  on  cake  has  hardened, 
cover  with  a  thicker  layer,  and  crease  for  cutting.  If  frost- 
ing is  too  stiff  to  spread  smoothly,  thin  with  a  few  drops  of 
water.  With  a  pastry  bag  and  variety  of  tubes,  cake  may 
be  ornamented  as  desired. 

Ornamental  Prosting  H 

Whites  3  eggs  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Confectioners'  sugar,  sifted 

Put  eggs  in  a  large  bowl,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar,  and 
beat  three  minutes,  using  a  perforated  wooden  spoon.  Re- 
peat until  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  are  used.  Add 
lemon  juice  gradually,  as  mixture  thickens.  Continue  add- 
ing sugar  by  spoonfuls,  and  beating  until  frosting  is  stiff 
enough  to  spread.  This  may  be  determined  by  taking  up 
some  of  mixture  on  back  of  spoon,  and  with  a  case  knife 
making  a  cut  through  mixture ;  if  knife  makes  a  clean  cut 
and  frosting  remains  parted,  it  is  of  right  consistency. 
Spread  cake  thinly  with  frosting ;  when  this  has  hardened, 
put  on  a  thicker  layer,  having  mixture  somewhat  stiffer  than 
first  coating,  and  then  crease  for  cutting.  To  remaining 
frosting  add  enough  more  sugar,  that  frosting  may  keep  in 
shape  after  being  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

With  a  pastry  bag  and  variety  of  tubes,  cake  may  be 
ornamented  as  desj»*ed. 


Cake  Frosted  for  St.  Valentine's  Day  for  the  use 
OP  Mocha  Frosting.  —  Page  531. 


Obkamkktal  Frosted  Cam.  —  Page  6St. 


Dipped  Walnuts.  —  Page 


BowBOKS.  —  Page  S4S„ 


FANCY   CAKES   AND   CONFECTIONS  583 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 
FANCY  CAKES   AND   CONFECTIONS 

ALMOND  paste  for  making  macaroons  and  small  fancy 
cakes  may  be  bought  of  dealers  who  keep  confectioners' 
supplies,  although  sometimes  a  resident  baker  or  confectioner 
will  sell  a  small  quantity.  Almond  paste  is  put  up  in  five- 
pound  tin  pails,  and  retails  for  one  and  one-half  dollars  per 
pail.  During  the  cold  weather  it  will  keep  after  being  opened 
for  a  long  time. 

Macaroons 

%  lb.  almond  paste  Whites  3  eggs 

%  lb.  powdered  sugar 

Work  together  almond  paste  and  sugar  on  a  smooth  board 
or  marble  slab.  Then  add  whites  of  eggs  gradually,  and 
work  until  mixture  is  perfectly  smooth.  Confectioners  at 
first  use  the  hand,  afterwards  a  palette  knife,  which  is  not 
only  of  use  for  mixing  but  for  keeping  board  clean.  Shape, 
using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  on  a  tin  sheet  covered  with 
buttered  paper,  one-half  inch  apart ;  or  drop  mixture  from 
tip  of  spoon  in  small  piles.  Macaroon  mixture  is  stiff  enough 
to  hold  its  shape,  but  in  baking  spreads.  Bake  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  If  liked  soft,  they  should 
be  slightly  baked.  After  removing  from  oven,  invert  paper, 
and  wet  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water,  when  macaroons 
will  easily  slip  off. 

Almond  Macaroons 

Jjk  Sprinkle  Macaroons,  before  baking,  with  almonds  blanched 
and  shredded,  or  chopped. 


634  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Crescents 

%  lb.  almond  paste  Almonds,  blanched  and 

2  ozs.  confectioners'  sugar  finely  chopped 

White  1  small  Q%g 

Mix  same  as  Macaroons.  Shape  mixture,  which  is  quite 
soft,  in  a  long  roll.  Cut  pieces  from  roll  three- fourths  inch 
long.  Roll  each  separately  in  chopped  nuts,  at  the  same 
time  shaping  to  form  a  crescent.  Bake  twenty  minutes  on  a 
buttered  tin  sheet  in  a  slow  oven.  Cool,  and  frost  with  Con- 
fectioners' Frosting,  made  thin  enough  to  apply  with  a  brush, 
and  flavored  with  lemon  juice  until  quite  acid.  Other  nuts 
may  be  used  in  place  of  almonds. 

Cinnamon  Bars 

10  ozs.  almond  paste  White  1  %g% 

5  ozs.  confectioners'  sugar  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mix  same  as  Macaroons.  Dredge  a  board  with  sugar, 
knead  mixture  slightly,  and  shape  in  a  long  roll.  Pat,  and 
roll  one-fourth  inch  thick,  using  a  rolling-pin.  After  rolling 
the  piece  should  be  four  inches  wide.  Spread  with  frosting 
made  of  white  of  one  ^'g^  and  two-thirds  cup  confectioners* 
sugar  beaten  together  until  stiff  enough  to  spread.  Cut  in 
strips  four  inches  long  by  three-fourths  inch  wide.  This  must 
be  quickly  done,  as  a  crust  soon  forms  over  frosting.  To 
accomplish  this,  use  two  knives,  one  placed  through  mixture 
where  dividing  line  is  to  be  made,  and  the  other  used  to 
make  a  clean  sharp  cut  on  both  sides  of  first  knife.  Knives 
should  be  kept  clean  by  wiping  on  a  damp  cloth.  Remove 
strips  as  soon  as  cut,  to  a  tin  sheet,  greased  with  lard  and 
then  floured.  Bake  twenty  minutes  on  centre  grate  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Horseshoes 

Use  Cinnamon  Bar  mixture.  Cover  with  frosting  colored 
with  fruit  red.  Cut  in  strips  six  inches  long  by  one-half 
inch  wide.  As  soon  as  cut,  shape  quickly,  at  the  same  time 
carefully,  in  form  of  horseshoes.  Bake  same  as  Cinnamon 
Bars.  When  cool,  make  eight  dots  with  chocolate  frosting^ 
to  represent  nails. 


F4N0Y  CAKES  AND  CONFECTIONS  635 

Cocoanut  Cakes  I 

%  lb.  fresh  grated  cocoanut  6  ozs.  sugar  and  glucose, 

Whites  \%  eggs  using  one  mixing-spoon 

glucose 

German  Confectioner 

Cook  cocoanut,  sugar,  and  glucose  in  double  boiler  until 
mixture  clings  to  spoon,  add  whites  of  eggs,  stir  vigorously, 
and  cook  until  mixture  feels  sticky  when  tried  between  the 
fingers.  Spread  in  a  wet  pan,  cover  with  wet  paper,  and 
chill  on  ice.  Shape  in  small  balls,  first  dipping  hands  in  cold 
water.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven  on  a  tin  sheet 
greased  with  white  wax. 

Cocoanut  Cakes  II 

1  lb.  fresh  grated  cocoanut  %  lb.  sugar 

Whites  2  eggs 

Cook,  shape,  and  bake  same  as  Cocoanut  Cakes  I. 

Stuffed  Dates  I 

Make  a  cut  the  entire  length  of  dates  and  remove  stones. 
Fill  cavities  with  castanea  nuts,  English  walnuts,  or  blanched 
almonds,  and  shape  in  original  form.  Roll  in  granulated 
sugar.  Pile  in  rows  on  a  small  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 
If  castanea  nuts  are  used,  mth  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the 
brown  skin  which  lies  next  to  shell. 

Stuffed  Dates  II 

Remove  stones  from  dates  and  fill  cavities  with  Neufchdtel 
cheese. 

Salted  Almonds  I 

Blanch  one-fourth  pound  Jordan  almonds  and  dry  on  a 
towel.  Put  one-third  cup  olive  oil  in  a  very  small  sauce- 
pan. When  hot,  put  in  one-fourth  of  the  almonds  and  fry 
until  delicately  browned,  stirring  to  keep  almonds  constantly 
m  motion.  Remove  with  a  spoon  or  small  skimmer,  taking 
Tip  as  little  oil  as  possible.  Drain  ^on  brown  paper  and 
sprinkle  with  salt;  repeat  until  all  are  fried.    It  may  be 


636  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

necessary  to  remove  some  of  the  salt  by  wiping  Duts  with  a 
napkin. 

Salted  Almonds  II 

Prepare  almonds  as  for  Salted  Almonds  I.  Fry  in  one- 
third  cup  fat,  using  half  lard  and  half  clarified  butter  or  all 
cocoanut  butter.     Drain,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Salted  Peanuts 

In  buying  peanuts  for  salting,  get  those  which  have  not 
been  roasted.  Remove  skins  and  fry  same  as  Salted 
Almonds  I  or  II. 

Salted  Pecans 

Shelled  pecans  may  be  bought  by  the  pound,  which  is 
much  tTie  best  way  when  used  for  salting,  as  it  is  difficult  to 
remove  the  nut  meat  without  breaking.  Fry  same  as  salted 
Almonds  I  or  II.  Care  must  be  taken  that  they  do  not  re- 
main in  fat  too  long;  having  a  dark  skin,  color  does  not 
determine  when  they  are  sufficiently  cooked. 

Parisian  Svtreets 

1  lb.  figs  1  lb.  English  walnut  meat 

1  lb.  dates  Confectioners'  sugar 

Pick  over  and  remove  stems  from  figs  and  stones  from 
dates.  Mix  fruit  with  walnut  meat,  and  force  through  a 
meat-chopper.  Work,  using  the  hands,  on  a  board  dredged 
with  confectioners'  sugar,  until  well  blended.  Roll  to  one- 
fourth  inch  thickness,  using  confectioners'  sugar  for  dredg- 
ing board  and  pin.  Shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  first 
dipped  in  sugar,  or  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  in  three-fourth 
inch  squares.  Roll  each  piece  in  confectioners*  sugar,  and 
shake  to  remove  superfluous  sugar.  Pack  in  layers  in  a  tin 
box,  putting  paper  between  each  layer.  These  confections 
may  be  used  at  dinner  in  place  of  bonbons  or  ginger  chips. 
A  combination  of  nut  meat  (walnut,  almond,  and  filbert) 
may  be  used  in  equal  proportions.  ^ 


CONFECTIONS  637 

Sugared  Popped  Corn 

2  quarts  popped  com  2  cups  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  ]4,  cup  water 

Put  butter  in  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  sugar  and 
water.  Bring  to  boiling-point,  and  let  boil  sixteen  minutes. 
Pour  over  corn,  and  stir  until  every  kernel  is  well  coated 
with  sugar. 

Corn  Balls 

5  quarts  popped  corn         %  cup  white  corn  syrup 

2  cups  sugar  i^  teaspoon,  each,  salt  and  vinegar 

1)^  cups  water  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  corn  syrup  without  stirring  until 
thermometer  registers  260°  F.  ;  then  add  remaining  ingre- 
dients and  let  boil  to  264°  F.  Have  corn  in  a  large  pan, 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  syrup,  using  a  spoon  all  of  the 
time  to  turn  corn  that  it  may  be  evenly  coated.  Make 
into  balls,  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  until  brittle. 

Molasses  Candy 

2  cups  Porto  Rico  molasses  3  tablespoons  butter 
%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

An  iron  kettle  with  a  rounding  bottom  (Scotch  kettle)  oi 
copper  kettle  is  best  for  candy  making.  If  one  has  no  cop- 
per kettle,  a  granite  kettle  is  best  for  sugar  candies. 

Put  butter  in  kettle,  place^bver  fire,  and  when  melted,  add 
molasses  and  sugar.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  During 
the  first  of  the  boiling  stirring  is  unnecessary,  but  when 
nearly  cooked,  it  should  be  constantly  stirred.  Boil  until, 
when  tried  in  cold  water,  mixture  will  become  brittle.  Add 
vinegar  just  before  taking  from  fire.  Pour  into  a  well  but- 
tered pan.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  until  porous 
and  light-colored,  allowing  candy  Ho  come  in  contact  with 
tips  of  fingers  and  thumbs,  not  to  be  squeezed  in  the  hand. 
Cut  in  small  pieces,  using  large  shears  or  a  sharp  knife,  and 
then  arrange  on  slightly  buttered  plates  to  cool. 
Velvet  Molasses  Candy 

1  cup  molasses  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

3  cups  sugar  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
1  cup  boiling  water  >^  cup  melted  butter 

K  teaspoon  soda 


538  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Put  first  four  ingredients  in  kettle  placed  over  front  of 
range.  As  soon  as  boiling-point  is  reached,  add  cream  of 
tartar.  Boil  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  mixture  will 
become  brittle.  Stir  constantly  during  last  part  of  cooking 
When  nearly  done,  add.  btitter  and  soda.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered pan  and  pull  same  as  Molasses  Candy.  Wliile  pulling, 
add  one  teaspoon  vanilla,'^  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  extract, 
few  drops  pil  of  peppermint,  or  few  drops  oil  of  wintergreen. 

Buttercups 

2  cups  molasses  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  ijup  sugar  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
%  cvi^  boiliog  water                    Fondant  flavored  with  vanilla 

Boil  ingredients  (except  fondant)  until,  when  tried  in  cold 
water,  a  firm  ball  may  be  formed  in  the  fingers,  not  stirring 
until  the  last  few  minutes  of  cooking.  Pour  on  a  buttered 
platter,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  until  light- 
colored.  Shape  on  a  floured  board,  having  strip  wide  enough 
to  enclose  a  roll  of  fondant  one  inch  in  diameter.  Place 
fondant  on  candy,  bring  edges  of  candy  together,  and  press 
firmly  over  fondant.  With  botfi  hands  pull  candy  into  a 
long  strip.  Cut  in  small  pieces ;  each  piece  will  consist  of 
fondant  encircled  with  molasses  candy.  Care  must  be  taken 
that  candy  is  not  cooked  too  long,  as  it  should  be  soft  rather 
than  brittle.  0, 

Vinegar  Candy 

2  cups  sugar  %  cnp  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Put  butter  into  kettle  ;  when  melted,  add  sugpr  a.  i  v^inegar. 
Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  afterwards  occa  lonaliy.  Boil 
until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  mixture  will  become  brittle. 
Turn  on  a  buttered  .platter  to  cool.  Pull,  and  cut  same  ap 
Molasses  Candy. 

Ice  Cream  Candy 

3  cups  sugar  %  cup  boiling  water 
^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar           ^  tablespoon  vinegar 


CONFECTIONS  639 

Boil  ingredients  together  without  stimng,  until,  when  tried 
in  cold  water,  mixture  will  become  brittle.  Turn  on  a  well 
buttered  platter  to  cool.  As  edges  cool,  fold  towards  centre. 
As  soon  as  it  can  be  handled,  pull  until  white  and  glossy. 
While  pulling,  flavor  as  desired,  using  vanilla,  orange  ex- 
tract, coffee  extract,  oil  of  sassafras,  or  melted  chocolate. 
Cut  in  sticks  or  small  pieces. 

Butter  Scotch 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

^  cup  molasses  2  tablespoons  boiling  water 

1^  cup  butter 

Boil  ingredients  together  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water, 
mixture  will  become  brittle.  Turn  into  a  well  buttered  pan  ; 
when  slightly  cool,  mark  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  in 
squares.  This  candy  is  much  improved  by  cooking  a  small 
piece  of  vanilla  bean  with  other  ingredients. 

Butter  Taffy 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  water 
y^  cup  molasses                                J^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  3^  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Boil  first  five  ingredients  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water 
mixture  will  become  brittle^  When  nearly  done,  add  butter, 
and  just  before  turning  into  pan,  vanilla.  Cool,  and  mark 
in  squares. 

Horehound  Candy 

^  pouf      ixich  pressed  2  cups  boiling  water 

tio     joi  id  3  cups  sugar 

}^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Pour  boiling  water  over  horehound  which  has  been  sep- 
arated in  pieces ;  let  stand  one  minute,  then  strain  through 
double  cheese-cloth.  Put  into  a  granite  kettle  with  remain- 
ing ingredients,  and  boil  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  mix- 
ture will  become  brittle.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool 
slightly,  then  mark  in  small  squares.  Small  square  packages 
of  horehound  may  be  bought  for  five  cents. 


540  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chocolate  Caramels 

2}4  tablespoons  butter         %  cup  milk 

2  cups  molasses  3  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  butter  into  kettle ;  when  melted,  add  molasses, 
sugar,  and  milk.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  when 
boiling-point  is  reached,  add  chocolate,  stirring  constantly 
until  chocolate  is  melted.  Boil  until,  when  tried  in  cold 
water,  a  firm  ball  may  be  formed  in  the  fingers.  Add 
vanilla  just  after  taking  from  fire.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
pan,  cool,  and  mark  in  small  squares. 

Nut  Chocolate  Caramels 

To  Chocolate  Caramels  add  the  meat  from  one  pound 
English  walnuts  broken  in  pieces,  or  one-half  pound  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped. 

Rich  Chocolate  Caramels 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  molasses 

1^  cup  milk  4  squares  chocolate 

}^  cup  sugar  1  cup  walnut  meats,  broken 

in  pieces 
2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Put  butter  in  saucepan  and  wilen  melted  add  milk,  sugar 
and  molasses.  When  boiling-point  is  reached  add  chocolate, 
and  cook  until  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water,  stirring 
occasionally  to  prevent  mixture  from  adhering  to  pan.  Re- 
move from  fire,  beat  three  minutes,  add  nut  meats  and 
vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pan.  When  cold  cut  in 
squares  and  wrap  in  paraffine  paper. 

Peanut  Nougat 
1  lb.  sugar"  1  quart  peanuts 

Shell,  remove  skins,  and  finely  chop  peanuts.  Sprinkle 
with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Put  sugar  in  a  perfectly 
smooth  granite  saucepan,  place  on  range,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  melted  to  a  syrup,  taking  care  to  keep  sugar 
from  sides  of  pan.     Add  nut  meat,  pour  at  once  into  a 


CONFECTIONS  541 

warm  buttered  tin,  and  mark  in  small  squares.     If  sugar 

is  not  removed  from  range  as  soon  as  melted,  it  will  quickly 

caramelize. 

Nut  Bar 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  shallow  pan  with  one 
and  one-third  cnps  nut  meat  (castaneas,  English  walnuts, 
or  almonds)  cut  in  quarters.  Pour  over  one  pound  sugar, 
melted  as  for  Peanut  Nougat.     Mark  in  bars. 

French  Nougat 

^  lb.  confectioners'  sugar  ^  lb.  almonds,  blanched 

and  finely  chopped 
Confectioners'  chocolate 

Put  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  place  on  range,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  melted ;  add  almonds,  and  pour  on  an  oiled 
marble.  Fold  mixture  as  it  spreads  with  a  broad-bladed 
knife,  keeping  it  constantly  in  motion.  Divide  in  four 
parts,  and  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle  shape  in  long 
rolls  about  one-third  inch  in  diameter,  keeping  rolls  in 
motion  until  almost  cold.  When  cold,  snap  in  pieces  one 
and  one-half  inches  long.  This  is  done  by  holding  roll 
at  point  to  be  snapped  over  the  sharp  edge  of  a  broad- 
bladed  knife  and  snapping.  Melt  confectioners'  chocolate 
over  hot  water,  beat  with  a  fork  until  light  and  smooth, 
and  when  slightly  cooled  dip  pieces  in  chocolate  and  with 
a  two-tined  fork  or  bonboH"  dipper  remove  from  chocolate 
to  oiled  paper,  drawing  dipper  through  top  of  each  the  en- 
tire length,  thus  leaving  a  ridge.  Chocolate  best  adapted 
for  dipping  bonbons  and  confections  must  be  bought  where 
confectioners'  supplies  are  kept. 

Nougatine  Drops 

Drop  French  Nougat  mixture  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon 
on  an  oiled  marble  very  soon  after  taking  from  fire.  These 
drops  have  a  rough  surface.  When  cold,  dip  in  melted 
conf  eel  loners*  chocolate. 

Wintergreen  "Wafers 

1  oz.  gum  tragacanth  Confectioners*  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  Oil  of  wintergreen 


642  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

Soak  gum  tragacanth  in  water  twenty-four  hours  and 
rub  through  a  fine  wire  sieve ;  add  enough  confectioners* 
sugar  to  knead.  Flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  winter- 
green.  If  liked  pink,  color  with  fruit  red.  Roll  until 
very  thin  dn  a  board  or  marble  dredged  with  sugar. 
Shape  with  a  small  round  cutter  or  cut  in  three-fourths 
inch  squares.  Spread  wafers,  cover,  and  let  stand  until 
dry  and  brittle.  This  mixture  may  be  flavored  with  oil 
of  lemon,  clove,  sassafras,  etc.,  and  colored  as  desired. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy 

\}^  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  butter 

}^  cup  milk  y^  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

}/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  butter  into  granite  saucepan  ;  when  melted,  add  sugar 
and  milk,  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Heat  to  boiliug- 
point,  and  boU  twelve  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  cocoa- 
nut  and  vanilla,  and  beat  until  creamy  and  mixture  begins 
to  sugar  slightly  around  edge  of  saucepan.  Pour  at  once 
into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly,  and  mark  in  squares. 
One-half  cup  nut  meat,  broken  in  pieces,  may  be  used  in 
place  of  cocoanut. 

Chocolate  Cream  Candy 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

^  cup  milk  2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  butter  into  granite  saucepan ;  when  melted,  add  sugar 
and  milk.  Heat  to  boiling-point;  then  add  chocolate,  and 
stir  constantly  until  chocolate  is  melted.  Boil  thirteen  min- 
utes,  remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla,  and  beat  until  creamy 
and  mixture  begins  to  sugar  slightly  around  edge  of  sauce- 
pan. Pour  at  once  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly,  and 
mark  in  squares.  Omit  vanilla,  if  desired,  and  add,  while 
cooking,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Maple  Sugar  Candy 

1  lb.  soft  maple  sugar  ^  cup  boiling  water 

%  cup  thin  cream  %  cup  English  walnut  or  pecan 

meat,  cut  in  pieces 


CONFECTIONS  543 

Break  sugar  in  pieces;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  cream 
and  water.  Bring  to  boiling-poiLt,  and  boil  until  a  soft  ball 
IS  formed  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  beat 
until  creamy,  add  nut  meat,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  tin. 
Cool  slightly,  and  mark  in  squares. 

Sultana  Caramels 

2  cups  sugar  2  squares  chocolate 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  cup  molasses  ^  cup  English  walnut  or  hickory 

^  cup  butter  nut  meat,  cut  in  pieces 

2  tablespoons  Sultana  raisins 

Put  butter  into  a  saucepan  ;  when  melted,  add  sugar,  milk, 
and  molasses.  Heat  to  boiling-point,  and  boil  seven  minutes. 
Add  chocolate,  and  stir  until  chocolate  is  melted ;  then  boil 
seven  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  until  creamy, 
add  nuts,  raisins,  and  vanilla,  and  pour  at  once  into  a  but- 
tered tin.  Cool  slightly,  and  mark  in  squares.  The  nut 
meats  and  raisins  may  be  omitted. 

Pralines 

1%  cups  powdered  sugar  2  cups  hickory  nut  or  peean 

1  cup  maple  syrup  meat,  cut  in  pieces 

y^  cup  cream 

Boil  first  three  ingredients  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water, 
a  soft  ball  may  be  formed.  Remove  from  fire,  and  beat 
until  of  a  creamy  consistency ;  add  nuts,  and  drop  from  tip 
of  spoon  in  small  piles  on  buttered  paper,  or  mixture  may 
be  poured  into  a  buttered  tin  and  cut  in  squares,  using 
ft  sharp  knife. 

Creamed  "Walnuts 

White  1  ^^^g  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  tablespoon  cold  water  1  lb.  confectioners'  sugar 

English  walnuts 

Put  Q^g^  water,  and  vanilla  in  a  bowl,  and  beat  until  well 
blended.  Add  sugar  gradually  until  stiff  enough  to  knead. 
Shape  in  balls,  flatten,  and  place  halves  of  walnuts  opposite 


544  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

each  other  on  each  piece.     Sometimes  all  the  sugar  will  not 
be  required. 

Peppermints 

1)4  cups  sugar  }4  cup  boiling  water 

6  drops  oil  peppermint 

Put  sugar  and  water  into  a  granite  saucepan  and  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  ten  minutes  ;  remove  from  fire,  add 
peppermint,  and  beat  until  of  right  consistency.  Drop  from 
tip  of  spoon  on  slightly  buttered  paper. 

BOILED   SUGAR   FOR   CONFECTIONS 

Eleven  tests  are  considered  for  boiling  sugar :  — 

Small  thread,  215°  F.  The  feather,  232© 

Large  thread,  217°  Soft  ball,       238° 

Pearl,  220°  Hardball,      248<> 

Large  pearl,     222°  Small  crack,  290° 

The  blow,        230°  Crack,  310° 

Caramel,  350° 

Fondant,  the  basis  of  all  French  candy,  is  made  of  sugar 
and  water  boiled  together  (with  a  small  quantity  of  cream 
of  tartar  to  prevent  sugar  from  granulating)  to  soft  ball,  238° 
F.  The  professional  confectioner  is  able  to  decide  when 
syrup  has  boiled  to  the  right  temperature  by  sound  while 
boiling,  and  by  testing  in  cold  water;  these  tests  at  first 
seem  somewhat  difficult  to  the-  amateur,  but  only  a  little 
experience  is  necessary  to  make  fondant  successfully.  A 
sugar  thermometer  is  often  employed,  and  proves  valuable, 
as  by  its  use  one  need  not  exercise  his  judgment. 

"White  Fondant 

2}^  lbs.  sugar  1}^  cups  hot  water 

)^  "teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  ingredients  into  a  smooth  granite  stewpan.  Stir, 
place  on  range,  and  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point.  Boil 
without  stirring  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  a  soft  ball 
may  be  formed  that  will  just  keep  in  shape,  which  is  238°  F. 
After  a  few  minutes'  boiling,  sugar  will  adhere  to  sides  of 


CONFECTIONS  645 

kettle ;  this  should  be  washed  off  with  the  hand  firsl 
dipped  in  cold  water.  Have  a  pan  of  cold  water  near  at 
hand,  dip  hand  in  cold  water,  then  quickly  wash  off  a  small 
part  of  the  sugar  with  tips  of  fingers,  and  repeat  until  all 
sugar  adhering  to  side  of  saucepan  is  removed.  If  this  is 
quickly  done,  there  is  no  danger  of  burning  the  fingers. 
Pour  slowly  on  a  slightly  oiled  marble  slab.  Let  stand  a  few 
minutes  to  cool,  but  not  long  enough  to  become  hard  around 
the  edge.  Scrape  fondant  with  chopping  knife  to  one  end  of 
marble,  and  work  with  a  wooden  spatula  until  white  and 
creamy.  It  will  quickly  change  from  this  consistency,  and 
begin  to  lump,  when  it  sh:>uld  be  kneaded  with  the  hands 
until  perfectly  smooth. 

Put  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  oiled  paper  to  exclude  air, 
that  a  crust  may  not  form  on  top,  and  l,et  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  A  large  oiled  platter  and  wooden  spoon  may  be  used 
in  place  of  marble  slab  and  spatula.  Always  make  fondant 
on  a  clear  day,  as  a  damp,  heavy  atmcwjpD^re  has  an  unfa- 
vorable effect  on  the  boiling  of  sugar. 

Cofifee  Fondant 
23^  lbs.  sugar  3€  cup  ground  coffee 

1)4  cups  cold  water  34  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  water  and  coffee  in  saucepan,  and  heat  to  boiling- 
point.  Strain  through  double  cheese-cloth ;  then  add  sugar 
and  cream  of  tartar.   Boil,  and  work  same  as  White  Fondawt- 

Maple  Fondant 

1^  lbs.  maple  sugar  1  cup  hot  water 

1}^  lbs.  sugar  3^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Break  maple  sugar  in  pieces  and  add  to  remaining  ingre* 
dients.     Boil,  and  work  same  as  White  Fondant. 

Bonbons 

The  centres  of  bonbons  are  made  of  fondant  shaped  in 
small  balls.  If  White  Fondant  is  used,  flavor  as  desired,  — 
vanilla  being  usually  preferred.  For  cocoanut  centres,  work 
as  much  shredded  coacoanut  as  possible  into  a  small  quantity 

35 


646  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

of  fondant;  for  nut  centres,  surround  pieces  of  nut  meat  with 
fondant,  using  just  enough  to  cover.  French  candied  cher- 
ries are  often  used  in  tills  way.  Allow  balls  to  stand  over 
night,  and  dip  the  following  day. 

To  Dip  Bonbons.  Put  fondant  in  saucepan,  and  melt 
over  hot  water;  color  and  flavor  as  desired.  In  coloring 
fondant,  dip  a  small  wooden  skewer  in  coloring  paste,  take 
up  a  small  quantity,  and  dip  skewer  in  fondant.  If  care  is 
not  taken,  the  color  is  apt  to  be  too  intense.  During  dipping, 
keep  fondant  over  hot  water  that  it  may  be  kept  of  right 
consistency.  For  dipping,  use  a  two-tined  fork  or  confec- 
tioners' bonbon  dipper.  Drop  centres  in  fondant  one  at  a 
time,  stir  until  covered,  remove  from  fondant,  put  on  oiled 
paper,  and  bring  end  of  dipper  over  the  top  of  bonbon,  thus 
leaving  a  tail-piece  which  shows  that  bonbons  have  been 
hand  dipped.  Stir  fondant  between  dippings  to  prevent  a 
crust  from  forming. 

Cream  Mints 

Melt  fondant  over  hot  water,  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of 
oil  of  peppermint,  wintergreen,  clove,  cinnamon,  or  orange, 
and  color  if  desired.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  oiled  paper. 
Confectioners  use  rubber  moulds  for  shaping  cream  mints; 
but  these  are  expensive  for  home  use,  unless  one  is  to  make 
mints  in  large  quantities. 

Rose  Cream  Mints 

1)4  cups  sugar  White  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  white  corn  syrup      4  drops  oil  wintergreen 

^  cup  water  Pink  coloring 

Put  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water  into  a  smooth  granite 
saucepan,  heat  gradually  to  boiling-point,  and  boil  without 
stirring  until  syrup  will  spin  along  thread  (238°  F.).  Pour 
slowly  on  to  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  and  beat  until  mixture 
will  hold  its  shape.  Add  flavoring  and  coloring.  Force  on 
to  an  oiled  paper,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  rose  tube.  The 
work  must  be  done  quickly. 


CONFECTIONS  64T 

Cream  Nut  Bars 

Melt  fondant  and  flavor,  stir  in  any  kind  of  nut  meat,  cut 
in  pieces.  Turn  in  an  oiled  pan,  cool,  and  cut  in  bars  with 
a  sharp  knife.     Maple  Fondant  is  delicious  with  nuts. 

Dipped  "Walnuts 

Melt  fondant  and  flavor.  Dip  halves  of  walnuts  as  bon- 
bon centres  are  dipped.  Halves  of  pecan  or  whole  blanched 
almonds  may  be  similarly  dipped. 

Tutti-Frutti  Candy- 
Fill  an  oiled  border-mould  with  three  layers  of  meltdd 
fondant.  Have  bottom  layer  maple,  well  mixed  with  Eng- 
lish walnut  meat;  the  second  layer  colored  pink,  flavored 
with  rose,  and  mixed  with  candied  cherries  cut  in  quarters 
and  figs  finely  chopped ;  the  third  layer  white,  flavored  witj^ 
vanilla,  mixed  with  nuts,  candied  cherries  cut  in  quarters, 
and  candied  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cover  moul<J 
with  oiled  paper,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Remove  froii 
mould,  and  place  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  lace  pape 
napkin.    Fill  centre  with  Bonbons  and  Glace  Nuts. 

Glace  Nuts 
2  cups  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

%  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  ' 

Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  saucepan,  stir,  place  OQ 
range,  and  heat  to  boiling-point.  Boil  without  stirring  until 
syrup  begins  to  discolor,  which  is  310°  F.  Wash  off  suga| 
which  adheres  to  sides  of  saucepan,  as  in  making  fondant. 
Remove  saucepan  from  fire,  and  place  in  larger  pan  of  cole 
water  to  instantly  stop  boiling.  Remove  from  cold  watei 
and  place  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  during  dipping.  Take 
nuts  separately  on  a  long  pin,  dip  in  syrup  to  cover,  remove 
from  syrup,  and  place  on  oiled  paper. 

Glac6  Fruits 

For  Glac^  Fruits,  grapes,  strawberries,  sections  of  man- 
darins and  oranges,  and  candied  cherries  are  most  common^ 


648  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


» 


used.  Take  grapes  separately  from  clusters,  leaving  a  short 
stem  on  each  grape.  Dip  in  syrup  made  as  for  Glace  Nuts, 
holding  by  stem  with  pincers.  Remove  to  oiled  paper.  Glace 
fruits  keep  but  a  day,  and  should  only  be  attempted  in  cold 
ani  clear  weather. 

Candied  Orange  Peel 

Remove  peel  from  four  thin-skinned  oranges  in  quarters. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling-point,  and  cook 
slowly  until  soft.  Drain,  remove  white  portion,  using  a 
spon,  and  cut  yellow  portion  in  thin  strips,  using  scissors. 
Eoil  one-half  cup  water  and  one  cup  sugar  until  syrup  will 
tlread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Cook  strips  in 
sjrup  five  minutes,  drain,  and  coat  with  fine  granulated  sugar. 

Spun  Sugar 

2  lbs.  sugar  2  cups  boiling  water 

^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  saucepan.  Boil  without  stir- 
lipg  until  syrup  begins  to  discolor,  which  is  300°  F.  Wash 
0  sugar  which  adheres  to  sides  of  saucepan,  as  in  making 
f5)ndant.  Remove  saucepan  from  fire,  and  place  in  a  larger 
p^n  of  cold  water  to  instantly  stop  boiling.  Remove  from 
old  water,  and  place  in  saucepan  of  hot  water.  Place  two 
)roomstick-handles  over  backs  of  chairs,  and  spread  paper 
m  the  floor  under  them.  When  syrup  is  slightly  cooled, 
Dut  dipper  in  syrup,  remove  from  syrup,  and  shake  quickly 
back  and  forth  over  broomhandles.  Carefully  take  off  spun 
jugar  as  soon  as  formed,  and  shape  in  nests,  or  pile  lightly 
on  a  cold  dish.  Syrup  may  be  colored  if  desired.  Spun 
Sugar  is  served  around  bricks  or  moulds  of  frozen  creams 
and  ices. 

Dippers  for  spinning  sugar  are  made  of  coarse  wires; 
about  twenty  wires,  ten  inches  long,  are  put  in  a  bundle,  and 
fastened  with  wire  coiled  round  and  round  to  form  a  handle. 


Cream  Mixts.  —  Page  640- 


Caxoied  Oeanoe  Peel. —  Page  647^ 


Bread  and  Butter  Folds.  —  Page  549, 


Noisette  Sandwiches.  —  Page  552. 


SANDWICHES  AKD  CANAPES  649 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 
SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES 

IN  preparing  bread  for  sandwiches,  cut  slices  as  thinly  as 
possible,  and  remove  crusts.  If  butter  is  used,  cream 
the  butter,  and  spread  bread  before  cutting  from  loaf. 
Spread  half  the  slices  with  mixture  to  be  used  for  filling, 
cover  with  remaining  pieces,  and  cut  in  squares,  oblongs,  or 
triangles.  If  sandwiches  are  shaped  with  round  or  fancy 
cutters,  bread  should  be  shaped  before  spreading,  that  there 
may  be  no  waste  of  butter.  Sandwiches  which  are  prepared 
several  hours  before  serving-time  may  be  kept  fresh  and 
moist  by  wrapping  in  a  napkin  wrung  as  dry  as  possible  out 
of  hot  water,  and  keeping  in  a  cool  place.  Paraffine  paper 
is  often  used  for  the  same  purpose.  Bread  for  sandwiches 
cuts  better  when  a  day  old.  Serve  sandwiches  piled  on  a 
plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

Rolled  Bread 

Cut  fresh  bread,  while  still  warm,  in  as  thin  slices  as  pos- 
sible, using  a  very  sharp  knife.  Spread  evenly  with  butter 
which  has  been  creamed.  Roll  slices  separately,  and  tie 
each  with  baby  ribbon. 

Bread  and  Butter  Folds 

Remove  end  slice  from  bread.  Spread  end  of  loaf  spar- 
ingly and  evenly  with  butter  which  has  been  creamed.  Cut 
off  as  thin  a  slice  as  possible.  Repeat  until  the  number  of 
slices  required  are  prepared.  Remove  crusts,  put  together 
in  pairs,  and  cut  in  squares,  oblongs,  or  triangles.  Use 
white,  entire  wheat,  Graham,  or  brown  bread.  Three  layer 
sandwiches  are  attractive  when  made  of  entire  wheat  bread 
between  white  slices. 


550  BOSTON  COOKTKG-SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 

Lettuce  Sand'wiches 

Put  fresh,  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  washed  and  thoroughly 
dried,  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  prepared  as  for 
Bread  and  Butter  Folds,  having  a  teaspoon  of  Mayonnaise 
on  each  leaf. 

Egg  Sandwiches 

Chop  finely  the  whites  of  ^'hard-boiled"  eggs;  force  the 
yolks  through  a  strainer  or  potato  ricer.  Mix  yolks  and 
whites,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  nioisten  with  May- 
onnaise or  Cream  Salad  Dressing.  Spread  mixture  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  prepared  as  for  Bread  and 
Butter  Folds. 

Sardine  Sandwiches 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  sardines,  and  mash  to  a 
paste.  Add  to  an  equal  quantity  of  yolks  of  *'  hard-boiled  '* 
eggs  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne, 
and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice ;  moisten  with  olive  oil  or 
melted  butter.  Spread  mixture  between  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered bread  prepared  as  for  Bread  and  Butter  Folds. 

Sliced  Ham  Sandw^iches 

Slice  cold  boiled  ham  as  thinly  as  possible.  Put  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  prepared  as  for  Bread  and 
Butter  Folds. 

Chopped  Ham  Sandwiches 

Finely  chop  cold  boiled  ham,  and  moisten  with  Sauce 
Tartare.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  pre- 
pared as  for  Bread  and  Butter  Folds. 

Anchovy  Sandwiches 

Rub  the  yolks  of  "  hard-boiled  eggs  "  to  a  paste.  Moisten 
with  soft  butter  and  season  with  anchovy  sauce.  Spread 
mixture  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  prepared  as 
for  Bread  and  Butter  Folds. 

Chicken  Sandwiches 

Chop  cold  boiled  chicken,  and  moisten  with  Mayonnaise  or 
Cream  Salad  Dressing ;  or  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 


SANDWICHES   AND   CANAPifes  551 

moisten  with >  rich  chicken  stock.     Prepare  as  other  sand- 
wiches. 

Lobster  Sandw^iches 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell,  and  chop.  Season  with 
salt,  cayenne,  made  mustard,  and  lemon  juice;  or  moisten 
with  any  salad  dressing.  Spread  mixture  on  a  crisp  lettuce 
leaf,  and  prepare  as  other  sandwiches. 

Lobster  Sandwiches  k  la  Boulevard 
Mix  an  equal  quantity  of  finelj^  chopped  lobster  meat  and 
the  yolks  of  "hard  boiled"  eggs  forced  through  a  sieve. 
Moisten  with  melted  butter,  and  season  with  German  mus- 
tard, beef  extract  diluted  with  a  very  small  quantity  of 
boiling  water,  and  salt.  Spread  mixture  between  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread,  remove  crusts,  and  cut  into  fancy 
shapes.  A  small  quantity  of  lobster  meat  is  most  success- 
fully utilized  in  this  way. 

Oyster  Sandwiches 

Arrange  fried  oysters  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  allowing  two 
oysters  for  each  leaf,  and  one  leaf  for  each  sandwich.  Pre- 
pare as  other  sandwiches. 

Nut  and  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Mix  equal  parts  of  grated  Gruyere  cheese  and  chopped 
English  walnut  meat;  then  season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 
Prepare  as  other  sandwiches. 

Cheese  and  Anchovy  Sandwiches 

Cream  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  add  one- fourth  cup 
jT'-ated  Young  America  Cheese  and  one  teaspoon  vinegar. 
Season  with  salt,  paprika,  mustard,  and  anchovy  sauce. 
Spread  mixture  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

"Windsor  Sandwiches 

Cream  one- third  cup  butter,  and  add  one-half  cup  each  of 
finely  chopped  cold  boiled  ham  and  cold  boiled  chicken. 
Season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Spread  mixture  between 
thin  slices  of  bread. 


552  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Club  Sandwiches 

Arrange  on  slices  of  bread  thin  slices  of  cooked  bacon ; 
cover  with  slices  of  cold  roast  chicken,  and  cover  chicken 
with  Mayonnaise  Dressing.     Cover  with  slices  of  bread,   j 

Ginger  Sandwiches 

Cut  preserved  Canton  ginger  in  very  thin  slices.  Prepare 
as  other  sandwiches. 

Fruit  Sandwiches 

Remove  stems  and  finely  chop  figs ;  add  a  small  quantity 
of  water,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  a  paste  is  formed,  then 
add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cool  mixture,  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread ;  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
peanuts  and  cover  with  pieces  of  buttered  bread. 

Brow^n  Bread  Sandwiches 

Brown  Bread  to  be  used  for  sandwiches  is  best  steamed 
in  one-pound  baking-powder  boxes.  Spread  and  cut  bread 
as  for  other  sandwiches.  Put  between  layers  finely  chopped 
peanuts  seasoned  with  salt;  or  grated  cheese  mixed  with 
chopped  English  walnut  meat  seasoned  with  salt. 

Noisette  Sandwiches 

Use  one-half  recipe  for  Milk  and  Water  Bread  made  with 
entire  vrheat  flour  (see  p.  54),  and  add  two  tablespoons 
molasses  and  one  cup  English  walnut  meats  or  pecan  nut 
oroken  in  small  pieces.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  slice 
as  thinly  as  possible,  spread  sparingly  and  evenly  with 
butter,  and  put  between  slices  orange  marmalade.  Remove 
crusts,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  garnish  with  nut  meats. 

Colonial  Sandwiches 

Make  one-half  the  recipe  for  Milk  and  Water  Bread  (see 
p.  54),  using  entire-wheat  flour,  and  adding  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  molasses,  and  after  the  first  rising  adding, 
while  kneading,  one-half  cup,  each,  candied  orange  peel 
finely  cut  and  pecan  nut  meats  broken  in  pieces.     Put  into 


SANDWICHES   AND   CANAPES  653 

buttered  one-pound  baking-powder  tins  until  one-third  full; 
let  rise  and  bake.     Cool,  and  make  into  sandwiches. 

German  Sandw^iches 

Use  Zweiback  (see  p.  61).  Spread  slices,  thinly  cut, 
with  jelly  or  marmalade,  and  sprinkle  with  finely  cut  English 
walnut  meats.  Cover  with  thinly  cut  slices  and  remove 
crusts. 

Russian  Sand-wiches 

Spread  zephyrettes  with  thin  slices  of  Neufch^tel  cheese, 
cover  with  finely  chopped  olives  moistened  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing.     Place  a  zephyrette  over  each  and  press  together. 

Jelly  Sandwiches 

Spread  zephyrettes  with  quince  jelly  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  English  walnut  meat.  Place  a  zephyrette  over 
each  and  press  together. 

Cheese  "Wafers 

Sprinkle  zephyrettes  with  grated  cheese  mixed  with  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne.  Put  on  a  sheet  and  bake  until  the 
cheese  melts. 

Canapes 

Canapes  are  made  by  cutting  bread  in  slices  one-fourth 
inch  thick,  and  cutting  slices  in  strips  four  inches  long  by 
one  and  one-half  inches  wide,  or  in  circular  pieces.  Then 
bread  is  toasted,  fried  in  deep  fat,  or  buttered  and  browned 
in  the  oven,  and  covered  with  a  seasoned  mixture  of  eggs, 
cheese,  fish,  or  meat,  separately  or  in  combination.  Canapes 
are  served  hot  or  cold,  and  used  in  place  of  oysters  at  a 
dinner  or  luncheon.  At  a  gentleman's  dinner  they  are 
served  with  a  glass  of  Sherry  before  entering  the  dining- 
room. 

Cheese  Canapes  I 

Toast  circular  pieces  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  a  thick  layer 
of  grated  cheese  seasoned  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Place  on 
a  tin  sheet  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted     Serve  at  once. 


654  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cheese  Canapes  II 

Spread  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  with  French 
Mustard,  then  proceed  as  for  Cheese  Canapes  I. 

Sardine  Canapes 

Spread  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  with  sardines 
(from  which  bones  have  been  removed)  rubbed  to  a  paste, 
with  a  small  quantity  of  creamed  butter  and  seasoned  with 
Worcestershire  Sauce  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Place  in 
the  centre  of  each  a  stuffed  olive,  made  by  removing  stone 
and  filling  cavity  with  sardine  mixture.  Around  each 
arrange  a  border  of  the  finely  chopped  whites  of  "  hard- 
boiled  "  eggs. 

Lobster  Canap§3 

Finely  chop  lobster  meat  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
yolks  of  "hard-boiled  "  eggs  forced  through  a  sieve.  Moisten 
with  melted  butter  and  heavy  cream,  using  equal  parts,  and 
season  highly  with  salt,  cayenne,  German  mustard  and  beef 
extract.  Spread  on  sauted  circular  slices  of  bread  and  gar- 
nish with  rings  cut  from  whites  of  "hard-boiled  "  eggs,  yolks 
of  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs,  and  lobster  coral  forced  through  a 
sieve. 

Canapes  Martha 

Beat  yolk  one  egg^  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
cream,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pap- 
rika, one- fourth  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce,  and  a  few 
grains  cayenne ;  then  add  one-fourth  pound  cheese  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  cook  until  smooth,  stirring  constantly. 
Spread  on  sauted  slices  of  bread,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and 
cover  with  finely  chopped  lobster  meat  held  together  with  a 
thick  sauce  made  of  Chicken  Stock  or  cream,  garnish  with 
rings  of  whites  of  "hard-boiled"  eggs,  yolks  of  "hard- 
boiled  "  eggs,  and"  lobster  coral  forced  through  a  strainer, 
and  rings  of  olives. 

Anchovy  Canapes 

Spread  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  with  Anchovy 
Butter.    Chop  separately  yolks  and  whites  of  "  hard-boiled  " 


Lobster  Canape.  —  Page  664^ 


CUirAPi  Ma^tika.  —Pcffe  SS^ 


fiJMiiiiii^^  Jiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'iiiiii'*** 


M 


Jelly  Bag  and  other  t^tecessary  utensils  for  jelly  making. 
Page  573. 


Marmalades,  Jam,  and  Jellies,  with  PARArriNE  to  melt  for 

COVERING,   PAPER    CUT   FOR    COVERS,    GUMMED    LABELS,   AND 

Library  Paste.  —  Paget  574  to  ^77, 


SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES  655 

eggs.  Cover  canapes  by  quarters  with  egg,  alternatiug 
yolks  and  whites.  Divide  yolks  from  whites  with  ancho- 
vies split  in  two  lengthwise,  and  pipe  around  a  border  of 
Anchovy  Butter,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Cheese  and  Olive  Canapes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth  inch  slices.  Shape  with 
a  small  oblong  cutter  with  rounded  corners.  Cream  butter, 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  soft  cheese,  and  work  until  smooth ; 
then  season  with  salt.  Spread  on  bread  and  garnish  with  a 
one-fourth  inch  border  of  finely  chopped  olives  and  a  piece 
of  red  or  green  pepper  cut  in  fancy  shape,  in  centre  of 
each.  To  be  served  in  place  of  sandwiches  on  a  plate 
covered  with  a  doiley. 

Canapes  Lorenzo 

Toast  slices  of  bread  cut  in  shape  of  horseshoes.  Cream 
two  tablespoons  butter,  and  add  one  teaspoon  white  of  egg. 
Spread  slices  of  bread,  rounding  with  Crab  Mixture,  cover 
with  creamed  butter,  sprinkle  with  cheese,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Serve  on  a  napkin,  ends  towards  centre  of  dish,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Crab  Mixture.  Finely  chop  crab  meat,  season  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  then  moisten  with 
Thick  White  Sauce.  Lobster  meat  may  be  used  in  place 
of  crab  meat. 

Algonquin  Canapes 

Fry  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  three  table- 
spoons butter,  and  one-third  cup  chopped  mushroom  caps 
five  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  two-thirds 
cup  cream.  Cook  until  mixture  thickens,  then  add  one  cup 
finnan  haddie  (soaked  in  lukewarm  water  to  cover  forty-five 
minutes,  then  separated  into  flakes),  two  tablespoons  grated 
cheese,  and  yolks  two  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Season  with 
salt  and  cayenne  and  pile  on  circular  pieces  of  toasted 
bread.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  then  with  buttered, 
Boft  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  browned. 
Serve  at  once. 


556  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 


CHAPTER   XXXV 
RECIPES  FOR  THE  CHAFING-DISH 

THE  chafing-dish,  which,  within  the  last  few  years,  has 
gained  so  much  favor,  is  by  no  means  a  utensil  of 
modern  invention.  It  finds  its  place  on  the  breakfast 
table,  when  the  eggs  may  be  cooked  to  suit  the  most 
fastidious ;  on  the  luncheon  table,  when  a  dainty  hot  dish 
may  be  prepared  to  serve  in  place  of  the  so-oft-seen  cold 
meat;  but  it  is  made  of  greatest  use  for  the  cooking  of 
late  suppers,  and  always  seems  to  accompany  hospitality 
and  good  cheer. 

It  is  appreciated  and  enjoyed  by  the  housekeeper  who 
does  her  own  work,  or  has  but  one  maid,  as  well  as  by  the 
society  girl  who,  by  its  use,  first  gains  a  taste  for  the  art  of 
cooking.  The  simple  tin  chafing-dishes  may  be  bought  for 
as  small  a  sum  as  ninety  cents,  while  the  elaborate  silver 
ones  command  as  high  a  price  as  one  hundred  dollars.  Very 
attractive  dishes  are  made  of  granite  ware,  nickel,  or  copper. 
The  latest  patterns  have  the  lamp  with  a  screw  adjustment 
to  regulate  the  flame,  and  a  metal  tray  on  which  to  set  dish, 
that  it  may  be  moved  if  necessary  while  hot,  without  danger 
of  burnt  fingers,  and  that  it  may  not  injure  the  polished 
table. 

A  chafing-dish  has  two  pans,  the  under  one  for  holding 
hot  water,  the  upper  one  with  long  handle  for  holding  food 
to  be  cooked.  A  blazer  differs  from  a  chafing-dish,  inas- 
much as  it  has  no  hot-water  pan. 

Wood  alcohol,  which  is  much  lower  in  price  than  high-proof 
spirits,  is  generally  used  in  chafing-dishes. 


RECIPES  FOR   THE   CHAFING-DISH  557 

List  of  dishes  previously  given  that  may  be  prepared  on 
the  Chafing-Dish :  — 

German  Toast  Buttered  Lobster 

Dropped  Eggs  Creamed  Lobster 

Eggs  a  la  Finnoise  Broiled  Meat  Cakes 

Eggs  k  la  Suisse  Salmi  of  Lamb 

Scrambled  Eggs  Creamed  Sweetbreads 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Sauted  Sweetbreads 

Tomato  Sauce  Chickens*  Livers  with 
Scrambled  Eggs  with  Madeira  Sauce 

Anchovy  Toast  Chickens'  Livers  with 
Buttered  Eggs  Curry 

Buttered  Eggs  with  Sauted  Chickens'  Livers 

Tomatoes  Creamed  Chicken 

Curried  Eggs  Chicken  and  Oysters  k  la 
French  Omelet  Metropole 

Spanish  Omelet  Stewed  Mushrooms 

Creamed  Fish  Sauted  Mushrooms 

Halibut  k  la  Rarebit  Mushrooms  k  la  Sabine 

Creamed  Oysters  Souffle  au  Rhum 

Scrambled  Eggs  "w^ith  Sweetbreads 

4  eggs  3-2  cup  milk 

}4  teaspoon  salt  1  sweetbread,  parboiled  and 

}^  teaspoon  pepper  cut  in  dice 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  using  a  silver  folk,  add  salt,  pep- 
per, milk,  and  sweetbread.  Put  butter  in  hot  chafing-dish; 
when  melted,  pour  in  the  mixture.  Cook  until  of  creamy 
consistency,  constantly  stirring  and  scraping  from  bottom 
of  the  pan. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Calfs  Brains 

Follow  recipe  for  Scrambled  Eggs  with  Sweetbreads,  using 
calf's  brains  in  place  of  sweetbreads. 

To  Prepare  Calf's  Brains.  Soak  one  hour  in  cold  water 
to  cover.  Remove  membrane,  and  parboil  twenty  minutes 
in  boiling,  salted,  acidulated  water.  Drain,  put  in  cold 
water ;  as  soon  as  cold,  drain  again,  and  separate  in  smali 
pieces. 


658  BOSTON  COOKINO-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cheese  Omelet 

2  eggs  %  tablespoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  grated  cheese 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  one-half  teaspoon  melted  butter, 
salt,  cayenne,  and  cheese.  Melt  remaining  butter,  add 
mixture,  and  cook  until  firm,  without  stirring.  Roll,  and 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Serve  with  Graham  bread 
sandwiches. 

Eggs  au  Beurre  Noir 

Butter  Pepper 

Salt  4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vinegar 

Put  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  hot  chafing-dish;  when 
melted,  slip  in  carefully  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  whites  are  firm.  Re- 
move to  a  hot  platter,  care  being  taken  not  to  break  yolks. 
In  same  dish  brown  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  vinegar, 
and  pour  over  eggs. 

Eggs  k  la  Caracas 

2  ozs.  smoked  dried  beef  Few  grains  cinnamon 

1  cup  tomatoes  Few  grains  cayenne 

1^  cup  grated  cheese  2  tablespoons  butter 

Few  drops  onion  juice  3  eggs 

Pick  over  beef  and  chop  finely,  add  tomatoes,  cheese, 
onion  juice,  cinnamon,  and  cayenne.  Melt  butter,  add 
mixture,  and  when  heated,  add  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook 
until  eggs  are  of  creamy  consistency,  stirring  and  scraping 
from  bottom  of  pan. 

Union  Grill 

Clean  one  pint  of  oysters  and  drain  off  all  the  liquor 
possible.  Put  oysters  in  chafing-dish,  and  as  liquor  flows 
from  oysters,  remove  with  a  spoon,  and  so  continue  until 
oysters  are  plump.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add 
two  tablespoons  butter.     Serve  ou  zephyrettes. 


BECIPES  FOK  THE  CHAFING-DISH  659 

Oysters  k  la  D'Uxelles 

i  pint  oysters  }^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  chopped  mush-  }£  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

rooms  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  egg  yolk 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  tablespoon  Sherry  wine 

Clean  oysters,  heat  to  boiling-point,  and  drain.  Re- 
serve liquor  and  strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheese- 
cloth ;  tliere  should  be  three-fourths  cup.  Cook  butter 
and  mushrooms  five  minutes,  add  flour,  and  oyster  liquor 
gradually ;  then  cook  three  minutes.  Add  seasonings, 
oysters,  egg,  and  Sherry  wine.  Serve  on  zephyrettes  or 
pieces  of  toasted  bread. 

Oysters  k  la  Thorndike 

1  pint  oysters  Few  grains  cayenne 

,     2  tablespoons  butter  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

^  teaspoon  salt  }^  cup  thin  cream 

Yolks  2  eggs  •' 

Clean  and  drain  oysters.  Melt  butter,  add  oysters,  and 
cook  until  oysters  are  plump.  Then  add  seasonings,  cream, 
and  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten.  Cook  until  sauce  is  slightly 
thickened,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  on  zephyrettes  or 
pieces  of  toasted  bread. 

Jack's  Oyster  Ragout 

Parboil  fresh  honeycomb  tripe,  and  cut  in  three-fourths 
inch  pieces ;  there  should  be  one  cup.  Add .  an  equal 
quantity  of  small  boiled  onions,  and  twice  the  quantity  of 
raw  oysters  which  have  been  previously  cleaned.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  four  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on 
gradually  while  stirring  constantly  one  and  one-half  cups  thin 
cream.  Add  tripe,  onion,  and  oysters.  When  thoroughly 
heated  add  yolks  two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  season  highly 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika.  Serve  on  pieces  toasted 
bread. 


560  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Lobster  k  la  Delmonico 

2  lb.  lobster  Few  grains  cayenne 

^  cup  butter  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

^  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  thin  cream 

1^  teaspoon  salt  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

Remove  lobster  meat  f  '>m  shell  and  cut  in  small  cubes. 
Melt  butter,  add  flour,  seasonings,  and  cream  gradually. 
Add  lobster,  andji.when  heated,  add  egg  yolks  and  wine. 

Lobster  d  la  Newburg 

2  lb.  lobster  Slight  grating  jiutmeg 
^  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  Sherry 
}^  teaspoon  salt                            1  tablespoon  brandy 
Few  grains  cayenne                    3^  cup  thin  cream 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Remove  lobster  meat  from  shell  and  cut  in  slices.  Melt 
butter,  add  lobster,  and  cook  three  minutes.  Add  season- 
ings and  wine,  cook  one  minute,  then  add  cream  and  ^^olks 
of  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Stir  until  thickened.  Serve  with 
toast  or  Puff  Paste  Points. 

Clams  d.  la  Newburg 
1  pint  clams  '  3  tablespoons  Sherry  or 

3  tablespoons  butter  Madeira  wine 
)^  teaspoon  salt  }-£  cup  thin  cream 
Few  grains  cayenne                  Yolks  3  eggs 

Clean  clams,  remove  soft  parts,  and  finely  chop  hard  parts. 
Melt  butter,  add  chopped  clams,  seasonings,  and  wine.  Cook 
eight  minutes,  add  soft  part  of  clams,  and  cream.  Cook  two 
minutes,  then  add  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten,  diluted  with 
some  of  the  hot  sauce. 

Shrimps  k  la  Newburg 

1  pint  shrimps  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  flour 

)4  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  cream  * 

Few  grains  cayenne  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

Clean  shrimps  and  cook  three  minutes  in  two  tablespoons 
butter.     Add  salt,  cayenpe,  and  lemon  juice,  and  cook  one 


BECIPES  FOR  THE  CHAFING-DISH  561 

minute.  Remove  shrimps,  and  put  remaining  butter  in 
chafing-dish,  add  flour  and  cream ;  when  thickened,  add 
yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  shrimps,  and  wine.  Serve 
with  toast  or  Puff  Paste  Points. 

Fish  k  la  Provengale 

3^  cup  Sautter  Yolks  4  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs 

23^  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  Anchovy  sauce 

2  cups  milk  2  cups  cold  boiled  flaked  fish 

Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Mash  yolks 
of  eggs  and  mix  with  Anchovy  essence,  add  to  sauce, 
then  add  fish.  Serve  as  soon  as  heated.  Serve  on  pieces 
of  toasted  Graham  bread. 

Grilled  Sardines 

Drain  twelve  sardines  and  cook  in  a  chafing-dish  until 
heated,  turning  frequently.  Place  on  small  oblong  pieces 
of  dry  toast,  and  serve  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  or  Lemon 
Butter. 

Sardines  with  Anchovy  Sauce 

Drain  twelve  sardines  and  cook  in  a  chafing-dish  until 
heated,  turning  frequently.  Remove  from  chafing-dish. 
Make  one  cup  Brown  Sauce  with  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons sardine  oil,  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  one  cup 
Brown  Stock.  Season  with  anchovy  sauce.  Reheat  sar- 
dines in  sauce.  Serve  with  Brown  Bread  Sandwiches,  hav- 
ing a  slice  of  cucumber  marinated  with  French  Dressing 
between  sliqps  of  bread. 

Creamed  Seirdinea 

Drain  from  oil  one  small  box  sardines,  remove  backbones 
from  fish,  then  mash.  Melt  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add 
one-fourth  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  one  cup  cream. 
When  thoroughly  heated  add  two  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  finely 
chopped,  the  sardines,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika  to  taste* 
Serve  on  pieces  of  toasted  bread.  • 

80 


562  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

"Welsh  Rarebit  I 

1  tablespoon  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  corn-starch  ^  teaspoon  mustard 

3^  cup  thin  cream  Few  grains  cayenne 

y^  lb.  soft  mild  cheese  Toast  or  wafer  crackers 
cut  in  small  pieces 

Melt  butter,  add  corn-starch,  and  stir  until  well  mixed, 
then  add  cream  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  and 
cook  two  minutes.  Add  cheese,  and  stir  until  cheese  is 
meited.  Season,  and  serve  on  zephyrettes  or  bread  toasted 
on  one  side,  rarebit  being  poured  over  untoasted  side. 
Much  of  the  success  of  a  rarebit  depends  upon  the  quality 
of  the  cheese.  A  rarebit  should  be  smooth  and  of  a  creamy 
consistency,  never  stringy. 

"Welsh  Rarebit  II 

1  tablespoon  butter  ^  teaspoon  mustard 

y^  lb.  soft  mild  cheese,  Few  grains  cayenne 

cut  in  small  pieces  K  ^^  )4  cup  ale  or 
^  teaspoon  salt  lager  beer 

legg 

Put  butter  in  chafing-dish,  and  when  melted,  add  cheese 
and  seasonings ;  as  cheese  melts,  add  ale  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly ;  then  egg  slightly  beaten.  Serve  same 
as  Welsh  Rarebit  I. 

Oyster  Rarebit 

1  cup  oysters  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 
}^  lb.  soft  mild  cheese,  2  eggs 

cut  in  small  pieces 

Clean,  parboil,  and  drain  oysters,  reserving  liquor;  then 
remove  and  discard  tough  muscle.  Melt  butter,  add  cheese 
and  seasonings ;  as  cheese  melts,  add  gradually  oyster  liquor, 
and  eggs  slightly  beaten.  As  soon  as  mixture  is  smooth* 
add  soft  part  of  oysters.  Serve  on  unsweetened  wafer 
crackers  or  bread  toasted  on  one  side,  rarebit  being  poured 
over  untoasted  side. 


EECIPES  FOR   THE   CHAFING-DISH  563 


Tomato  Rarebit 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  cups  finely  cut  cheese 

%  cup  thin  cream  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

%  cup  stewed  and  Salt 

strained  tomatoes  Mustard 
Cayenne 

Put  butter  in  chafing-dish ;  when  melted,  add  flour. 
Pour  on,  gradually,  cream,  and  as  soon  as  mixture  thick- 
ens add  tomatoes  mixed  with  soda ;  then  add  cheese,  eggs, 
and  seasonings  to  taste.  Serve,  as  soon  as  cheese  has 
melted,  on  Graham  Toast. 

English  Monkey 
1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  ^  cup  soft  mild  cheese, 

1  cup  milk  cut  in  small  pieces 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  egg 

}4,  teaspoon  salt 
Few  grains  cayenne 

Soak  bread  crumbs  fifteen  minutes  in  milk.  Melt  butter, 
add  cheese,  and  when  cheese  has  melted,  add  soaked  crumbs, 
egg  slightly  beaten,  and  seasonings.  Cook  three  minutes, 
and  pour  over  toasted  crackers  which  have  been  spread 
sparingly  with  butter. 

Breaded  Tongue  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Cut  cold  boiled  corned  tongue  in  slices  one-third  inch  thick. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and 
saute  in  butter.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  I. 

Scotch  "Woodcock 

4  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  1  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  )^  teaspoon  salt 

1%  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 

Anchovy  sauce 

Make  a  thin  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk,  and  sea- 
sonings ;  add  eggs  finely  chopped,  and  season  with  anchovy 
sauce.     Sei-ve  same  as  Welsh  Rarobit  I. 


564  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Shredded  Ham  v^ith  Currant  Jelly  Sauce 

%  tablespoon  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

3^  cup  currant  jelly  ^  cup  Sherry  wine 

1  cup  cold  cooked  ham,  cut  in  small  strips 

Put  butter  and  currant  jelly  into  the  chafing-dish.  As 
soon  as  melted,  add  cayenne,  wine,  and  ham ;  simmer  five 
minutes. 

Venison  Cutlets  with  Apples 

Wipe,  core,  and  cut  four  apples  in  one-fourth  inch  slices. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  add  one-third  cup  Port 
wine  ;  cover,  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Drain,  and  saufce 
in  butter.  Cut  a  slice  of  venison  one-half  inch  thick  in  cut- 
lets. Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  three  or  four 
minutes  in  a  hot  chafing-dish,  using  just  enough  butter  to 
prevent  sticking.  Remove  from  dish;  then  melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  wine  drained  from  apples,  and  twelve 
candied  cherries  cut  in  halves.  Reheat  cutlets  in  sauce,  and 
serve  with  apples. 

Mutton  with  Currant  Jelly  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  Brown  Stock 

2  tablespoons  flour  y^  cup  currant  jelly 

^  teaspoon  salt  \%  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

Few  grains  pepper  6  slices  cold  cooked  mutton 

Brown  the  butter,  add  flour,  seasonings,  and  stock,  grad- 
ually;  then  add  jelly,  and  when  melted,  add  mutton.  When 
meat  is  heated,  add  wine.  If  mutton  gravy  is  at  hand,  use 
instead  of  making  a  Brown  Sauce. 

Minced  Mutton 

2  cups  chopped  cooked  mutton  Salt 

Yolks  6  "  hard-boiled  "  eggs  Cayenne 

%^  teaspoon  mixed  mustard  1  cup  of  cream 
)/^  cup  wine 

Mash  the  yolks,  and  season  with  mustard,  salt,  and  cay- 
enne. Add  cream  and  mutton.  When  thoroughly  heated 
add  wine.    Serve  on  toast 


RECIPES  FOR  THE  CHAFING-DISH  665 


Devilled  Bone^ 

2  tablespoons  butter  Drumsticks,  second  joints,  and 
1  tablespoon  Chili  Sauce  wings  of  a  cooked  chicken 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  Salt 

Sauce  Pepper 

1  tablespoon  Walnut  Catsup  Flour 

1  teaspoon  made  mustard  Cup  hot  stock 

Few  grains  cayenne  Finely  chopped  parsley 

Melt  butter,  and  add  Chili  Sauce,  Worcestershire  Sauce, 
Walnut  Catsup,  mustard,  and  cayenne.  Cut  four  small 
gashes  in  each  piece  of  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  cook  in  the  seasoned  butter 
until  well  browned.  Pour  on  stock,  simmer  five  minutes, 
and  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

Devilled  Almonds 

2  ozs.  blanched  and  shredded  2  tablespoons  chopped  pickles 

almonds  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

Butter  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  Chutney  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  cayenne 

Fry  almonds  until  well  browned,  using  enough  butter  to 
prevent  almonds  from  burning.  Mix  remaining  ingredients, 
pour  over  nuts,  and  serve  as  soon  as  thoroughly  heated. 
Serve  with  oysters. 

Devilled  Chestnuts 

Shell  one  cup  chestnuts,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  fry  until 
well  browned,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent  chestnuts  from 
burning.     Season  with  Tabasco  Sauce  or  few  grains  paprika. 

Fruit  Canapes 

Make  German  Toast  in  circular  pieces,  cover  with  stewed 
prunes,  figs,  or  jam.     Serve  with  Cream  Sauce  L 

Peach  Canapes 

Saute  circular  pieces  of  sponge  cake  in  butter  until  deli- 
cately browned.     Drain  canned  peaches,  sprinkle  with  pow- 


566  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

dered  sugar,  few  drops  lemon  juice,  and  slight  grating 
nutmeg.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  peaches,  and 
when  heated,  serve  on  cake. 

rig  Cups 

y^  lb.  washed  figs  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Chopped  salted  almonds  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

^  cup  wine 

Stuff  figs  with  almonds.  Put  sugar,  lemon,  juice,  and 
wine  in  chafing-dish ;  when  heated,  add  figs,  cover,  and  cook 
until  figs  are  tender,  turning  and  basting  often.  Serve  with 
Lady  Fingers. 


FEUITS:    FRESH,   PRESERVED,  AND   CANNED      567 


"      CHAPTER  XXXVI 
FRUITS:  FRESH,  PRESERVED,   AND   CANNED 

FRUITS  are  usually  at  their  best  when  served  ripe  and 
in  season;  however,  a  few  cannot  be  taken  in  their 
raw  state,  and  still  others  are  rendered  more  easy  of  diges- 
tion by  cooking.  The  methods  employed  are  stewing  and. 
baking.  Fruit  should  be  cooked  in  earthen  or  granite  ware 
utensils,  and  silver  or  wooden  spoons  should  be  employed 
for  stirring.  It  must  be  remembered  that  all  fruits  contain 
one  or  more  acids,  and  when  exposed  to  air  and  brought  in 
contact  with  an  iron  or  tin  surface,  a  poisonous  compound 
may  be  formed. 

How  to  Prepare  Strawberries  for  Serving 

1.  Pick  over  strawberries,  place  in  colander,  pour  over 
cold  water,  drain  thoroughly,  hull,  and  turn  into  dish.  Serve 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cream. 

2.  Pick  over  selected  strawberries,  place  in  colander,  pour 
over  cold  water,  and  drain  thoroughly.  Press  powdered 
sugar  into  cordial  glasses.  Remove  from  glasses  on  centres 
of  fruit  plates.  Arrange  twelve  berries  around  each  mound 
of  sugar.  Berries  served  in  this  way  should  not  be 
hulled. 

How  to  Prepare  Cantaloupes  and  Muskmelons  for  Serving 

Canteloupes  and  muskmelons  should  be-  very  ripe  and 
thoroughly  chilled  in  ice  box  before  being  prepared  for 
serving.  Wipe  melons,  —  if  small,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise ;  if 
larger,  cut  in  sections,  and  remove  seeds  and  stringy  portion. 
If  one-half  is  served  as  a  portion,  put  in  cavity  one  table- 
spoon crushed  ice.     Serve  with  salt  or  powdered  sugar. 


568  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

How  to  Prepare  Grapes  for  Serving 

Put  bunches  in  colander  and  pour  over  cold  water,  drain, 
chill,  and  arrange  on  serving  dish.  Imperfect  grapes,  as 
well  as  those  under-ripe  or  over-ripe,  should  be  removed. 
Garnish  with  grape  leaves,  if  at  hand. 

"Ways  of  Preparing  Oranges  for  Serving 

1.  Wipe  orange  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise.  Place  one- 
half  on  a  fruit  plate,  having  an  orange  spoon  or  teaspoon  on 
plate  at  right  of  fruit. 

2.  Peel  an  orange  and  remove  as  much  of  the  white  por- 
tion as  possible.  Remove  pulp  by  sections,  which  may  be 
accomplished  by  using  a  sharp  knife  and  cutting  pulp  from 
tough  portion  first  on  one  side  of  section,  then  on  the  other. 
Should  there  be  any  white  portion  of  skin  remaining  on  pulp 
it  should  be  cut  off.  Arrange  sections  on  glass  dish  or  fruit 
plate.     If  the  orange  is  a  seeded  one,  remove  seeds. 

3.  Remove  peel  from  an  orange  in  such  a  way  that  there 
remains  a  one-half  inch  band  of  peel  equal  distance  from 
stem  and  blossom  end.  Cut  band,  separate  sections,  and 
arrange  around  a  mould  of  sugar. 

How  to  Prepare  Grape  Fruit  for  Serving 

Wipe  grape  fruit  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise.  With  a 
small,  sharp-pointed  knife  make  a  cut  separating  pulp  from 
skin  around  entire  circumference  ;  then  make  cuts  separating 
pulp  from  tough  portion  which  divides  fruit  into  sections. 
Remove  tough  portion  in  one  piece,  which  may  be  accom- 
plished by  one  cutting  with  scissors  at  stem  or  blossom  end 
close  to  skin.  Sprinkle  fruit  pulp  left  in  grape  fruit  skin 
generously  with  sugar.  Let  stand  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
very  cold.  Place  on  fruit  plate  and  garnish  with  a  candied 
cherry. 

Grape  Fruit  w^ith  Sherry 

Prepare  grape  fruit  for  serving,  add  to  each  portion  one 
tablespoon  Sherry  wine,  and  let  stand  one  hour  in  ice  box  or 
cold  place. 


FKUITS:    FRESH,   PRESERVED,   AND   CANNED      669 

Grape  Fruit  with  Apricot  Brandy. 

Prepare  grape  fruit  for  serving  and  add  to  each  portion 
one-half  tablespoon  apricot  brandy. 

Grape  Fruit  with  Sloe  Gin 

Prepare  grape  fruit  for  serving  and  add  to  each  portion 
one-half  tablespoon  sloe  gin. 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Eemove  pulp  from  grape  fruit,  and  mix  with  shredded 
pineapple,  bananas  cut  in  slices  and  slices  cut  in  quarters, 
and  strawberries  cut  in  halves,  using  half  as  much  pine- 
apple and  banana  as  grape  fruit,  and  allowing  four  straw- 
berries to  each  serve.  There  should  be  two  cups  fruit. 
Pour  over  a  dressing  made  of  one-third  cup  Sherry  wine, 
three  tablespoons  apricot  brandy,  one-half  cup  sugar,  and  a 
few  grains  salt.  Chill  thoroughly,  serve  in  double  cocktail 
glasses,  and  garnish  with  candied  cherries  and  leaves. 

Baked  Apples 

Wipe  and  core  sour  apples.  Put  in  a  baking-dish,  and  fill 
cavities  with  sugar  and  spice.  Allow  one-half  cup  sugar 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  to  eight  apples. 
If  nutmeg  is  used,  a  few  drops  lemon  juice  and  few  gratings 
from  rind  of  lemon  to  each  apple  is  an  improvement.  Cover 
bottom  of  dish  with  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  soft,  basting  often  with  syrup  in  dish.  Serve  hot  or 
cold  with  cream.  Many  prefer  to  pare  apples  before  bak- 
ing. When  this  is  done,  core  before  paring,  that  fruit  may 
keep  in  shape.  In  the  fall,  when  apples  are  at  their  best, 
do  not  add  spices  to  apples,  as  their  flavor  cannot  be  im- 
proved; but  towards  spring  they  become  somewhat  taste- 
less, and  spice  is  an  improvement. 

Baked  Sweet  Apples 
Wipe  and  core  eight  sweet  apples.     Put  in  a  baking-dish, 
and    fill   cavities   with    sugar,   allowing   one-third   cup,    or 
sweeten  with  molasses.    Add  two-thirds  cup  boiling  water. 


570  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cover,  and  bake  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  adding  more 
water  if  necessary. 

Apple  Sauce 

Wipe,  quarter,  core,  and  pare  eight  sour  apples.  Make  a 
syrup  by  boiling  seven  minutes  one  cup  sugar  and  one  cup 
water  with  thin  shaving  from  rind  of  a  lemon.  Remove 
lemon,  add  enough  apples  to  cover  bottom  of  saucepan, 
watch  carefully  during  cooking,  and  remove  as  soon  as  soft. 
Continue  until  all  are  cooked.  Strain  remaining  syrup  over 
apples. 

Spiced  Apple  Sauce 

Wipe,  quarter,  core,  and  pare  eight  sour  apples.  Put  in 
a  saucepan,  sprinkle  with  one  cup  sugar,  add  eight  cloves, 
and  enough  water  to  prevent  apples  from  burning.  Cook  to 
a  mush,  stirring  occasionally. 

Apple  Ginger 

Wipe,  quarter,  core,  pare,  and  chop  sour  apples;  there 
should  be  two  and  one-half  pounds.  Put  in  a  stewpan 
and  add  one  and  one-half  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  juice 
and  rind  of  one  and  one-half  lemons,  one-half  ounce  ginger 
root,  a  few  grains  salt,  and  enough  water  to  prevent  apples 
from  burning.  Cover,  and  cook  slowly  four  hours,  adding 
water  as  necessary.  Apple  Ginger  may  be  kept  for  several 
weeks. 

Apple  Porcupine 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  eight  minutes  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  cups  water.  Wipe,  core, 
and  pare  eight  apples.  Put  apples  in  syrup  as  soon  as  pared, 
that  they  may  not  discolor.  Cook  until  soft,  occasionally 
skimming  syrup  during  cooking.  Apples  cook  better  cov- 
ered with  the  syrup;  therefore  it  is  better  to  use  a  deep 
saucepan  and  have  two  cookings.  Drain  apples  from  syrup, 
cool,  fill  cavities  with  jelly,  marmalade,  or  preserved  fruit, 
and  stick  apples  with  almonds  blanched  and  split  in  halves 
lengthwise.     Serve  with  Cream  Sauce  I. 


FRUITS:    FRESH,   PRESERVED,   AND  CANNED      571 

Baked  Bananas  I 

Remove  skins  from  six  bananas  and  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise. Put  in  a  shallow  granite  pan  or  on  an  old  platter. 
Mix  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-third  cup  sugar, 
and  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Baste  bananas  with  one- 
half  the  mixture.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven, 
basting  during  baking  with  remaining  mixture. 

Baked  Bananas  II 

Arrange  bananas  in  a  shallow  pan,  cover,  and  bake  until 
skins  become  very  dark  in  color.  Remove  from  skins,  and 
serve  hot  sprinkled  with  sugar. 

Sauted  Bananas 

Remove  skins  from  bananas,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and 
again  cut  in  halves  crosswise.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  saute 
in  clarified  butter.  Drain,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

Baked  Peaches 

Peel,  cut  in  halves,  and  remove  stones  from  six  peaches. 
Place  in  a  shallow  granite  pan.  Fill  each  cavity  with  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  butter,  few  drops  lemon 
juice,  and  a  slight  grating  nutmeg.  Cook  twenty  minutes, 
and  serve  on  circular  pieces  of  buttered  dry  toast. 

Baked  Pears 

Wipe,  quarter,  and  core  pears.  Put  in  a  deep  pudding- 
dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  or  add  a  small  quantity  of  molas- 
ses, then  add  water  to  prevent  pears  from  burning.  Cover, 
and  cook  two  or  three  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven.  Small 
pears  may  be  baked  whole.  Seckel  pears  are  delicious 
when  baked. 

Baked  Quinces 
Wipe,  quarter,  core,  and  pare  eight  quinces.     Put  in  a 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  add  one 
and  one-half  cups  water,  cover,  and  cook  until  soft  in  a  slow 
pven.     Quinces  require  a  long  time  for  cookiug. 


572  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Pick  over  and  wash  three  cups  cranberries.  Put  in  a 
dtewpan,  add  one  and  one-fourth  cups  sugar  and  one  cup 
boiling  water,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Care  must  be  taken 
that  they  do  not  boil  over.    Skim  and  cool. 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Pick  over  and  wash  four  cups  cranberries.  Put  in  a  stew- 
pan  With  two  cups  boiling  water,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  two  cups  sugar,  and  cook  five 
minutes.     Turn  into  a  mould  or  glasses. 

Stevred  Prunes 

Wash  and  pick  over  prunes.     Put  in  a  saucepan,  cover 

.  with  cold  water,  and  soak  two  hours ;  then  cook  until  soft 

in  same  water.     When  nearly  cooked,  add  sugar  or  molasses 

to  sweeten.     Many  prefer  the  addition  of  a  small  quantity  of 

lemon  juice. 

Rhubarb  Sauce 

Peel  and  cut  rhubarb  in  one-inch  pieces.  Put  in  a  sauce- 
pan, sprinkle  generously  with  sugar,  and  add  enough  water 
to  prevent  rhubarb  from  burning.  Rhubarb  contains  such  a 
large  percentage  of  water  that  but  little  additional  water  is 
needed.  Cook  until  soft.  If  rhubarb  is  covered  with  boil- 
ing water,  allowed  to  stand  fiv§  minutes,  then  drained  and 
cooked,  less  sugar  will  be  required.  Rhubarb  is  sometimes 
baked  in  an  earthen  pudding-dish.  If  baked  slowly  for  a 
long  time  it  has  a  rich  red  color. 


JELLIES 

Jellies  am  made  of  cooked  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  in  nearly 
all  cases  the  proportions  being  equal.  Where  failures  occur, 
they  may  usually  be  traced  to  4he  use  of  too  ripe  fruit. 

To  Prepare  Glasses  for  Jelly.  Wash  glasses  alid  put  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  watef ;  place  ou  range,  and  heat  water  grjtd- 


JELLIES  678 

ually  to  boiling-point.  Remove  glasses,  and  drain.  Place 
glasses  while  filling  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water. 

To  Cover  Jelly  Glasses.  Cut  letter  paper  in  circular 
pieces  just  to  fit  in  top  of  glasses.  Dip  in  brandy,  and  cover 
jelly.  Put  on  tin  covers  or  circular  pieces  of  paper  cut 
larger  than  the  glasses,  and  fastened  securely  over  the  edge 
with  mucilage.  Some  prefer  to  cover  jelly  with  melted 
paraffine  then  to  adjust  covers. 

To  Make  a  Jelly  Bag.  Fold  two  opposite  corners  of  a  piece 
of  cotton  and  wool  flannel  three-fourths  yard  long.  Sew  up 
in  the  form  of  a  cornucopia,  rounding  at  the  end.  Fell  the 
seam  to  make  more  secure.  Bind  the  top  with  tape,  and  fur- 
nish with  two  or  three  heavy  loops  by  which  it  may  be  hung. 

Apple  Jelly 

Wipe  apples,  remove  stem  and  blossom  ends,  and  cut  in 
quarters.  Put  in  a  granite  or  porcelain-lined  preserving  ket- 
tle, and  add  cold  water  to  come  nearly  to  top  of  apples. 
Cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  apples  are  soft ;  mash,  and 
drain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Avoid  squeezing  apples,  which 
makes  jelly  cloudy.  Then  allow  juice  to  drip  through  a 
double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth  or  a  jelly  bag.  Boil  twenty 
minutes,  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar ;  boil 
five  minutes,  skim,  and  turn  in  glasses.  Put  in  a  sunny  win- 
dow, and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Cover,  and  keep  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  Porter  apples  make  a  delicious  flavored 
jelh'.  If  apples  are  pared,  a  much  lighter  jelly  may  be 
made.     Gravenitein  apples  make  a  very  spicy  jelly. 

To  Heat  Sugar.  Put  in  a  granite  dish,  place  in  oven, 
leaving  oven  door  ajar,  and  stir  occasionally. 

Quince  Jelly 

Follow  recipe  for  Apple  Jelly,  using  quinces  in  place  of 
apples,  and  removing  seeds  from  fruit..  Quince  parings  are 
often  used  for  jelly,  the  better  part  of  the  frujt  being  us^d 
for  canning. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly 

Follow  recipe  for  Apple  Jelly,  leaving  apples  whole  instead 
of  cutting  in  quarters. 


674        BOSTON  cooKma-scHooL  cook  book 

Currant  Jelly 

Currants  are  in  the  best  condition  for  making  jelly  between 
June  twenty-eighth  and  July  third,  and  should  not  be  picked 
directly  after  a  rain.  Cherry  currants  make  the  best  jelly. 
Equal  proportions  of  red  and  white  currants  are  considered 
desirable,  and  make  a  lighter  colored  jelly. 

Pick  over  currants,  but  do  not  remove  stems ;  wash  and 
drain.  Mash  a  few  in  the  bottom  of  a  preserving  kettle, 
using  a  wooden  potato  masher ;  so  continue  until  berries  are 
used.  Cook  slowly  until  currants  look  white.  Strain  through 
a  course  strainer,  then  allow  juice  to  drop  through  a  double 
thickness  of  cheese-cloth  or  a  jelly  bag.  Measure,  bring  to 
boiling-point,  and  boil  five  minutes ;  add  an  equal  measure 
of  heated  sugar,  boil  three  minutes,  skim,  and  pour  into 
glasses.  Place  in  a  sunny  window,  and  let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours.     Cover,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly 

Follow  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly,  using  equal  parts  of  cur- 
rants and  raspberries. 

Blackberry  Jelly 

Follow  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly,  using  blackberries  in  place 
of  currants. 

Raspberry  Jelly 

Follow  recipe  for  Currant  Jelly,  using  raspberries  in  place 
of  currants.  Raspberry  Jelly  is  the  most  critical  to  make, 
and  should  not  be  attempted  if  fruit  is  thoroughly  ripe,  or  if 
it  has  been  long  picked. 

Barberry  Jelly 

Barberry  Jelly  is  firmer  and  of  better  color  if  made  from 
fruit  picked  before  the  frost  comes,  while  some  of  the  berries 
are  still  green.  Malie  same  as  Currant  Jelly,  allowing  one 
cup  water  to  one  peck  barberries. 

Grape  Jelly 

Grapes  should  be  picked  over,  washed,  and  stems  removed 
before  putting  into  a  preserving  kettle.     Heat  to  boiling- 


JAMS  675 

point,  mash,   and  boil  thirty  minutes;  then  proceed  as  for 
Currant  Jelly.     Wild  grapes  make  the  best  jelly. 

Green  Grape  Jelly 

Grapes  should  be  picked  when  just  beginning  to  turn. 
Make  same  as  Grape  Jelly. 

Venison  Jelly 

1  peck  wild  grapes  Whole  cloves      "j  ^  cup 

1  quart  vinegar  Stick  cinnamon  /     each 

6  pounds  sugar 

Put  first  four  ingredients  into  a  preserving  kettle,  heat 
slowly  to  the  boiling-point,  and  cook  until  grapes  are  soft. 
Strain  through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth  or  a  jelly 
bag,  and  boil  liquid  twenty  minutes;  then  add  sugar  heated, 
and  boil  five  minutes.     Turn  into  glasses. 

Damson  Jelly 

Wipe  and  pick  over  damsons ;  then  prick  several  time« 
with  a  large  pin.  Make  same  as  Currant  Jelly,  using  thre^- 
fourths  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  juice. 


JAMS 

Raspberries  and  blackberries  are  the  fruits  most  often  em 
ployed  for  making  jams,  and  require  equal  weight  of  sugai 
and  fruit. 

Raspberry  Jam 

Pick  over  raspberries.  Mash  a  few  in  the  bottom  of  a 
preserving  kettle,  using  a  wooden  potato  masher,  and  so 
continue  until  the  fruit  is  used.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling- 
point,  and  add  gradually  an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar. 
Cook  slowly  forty-five  minutes.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  oi 
tumblers. 

Blackberry*  Jam 

Follow  recipe  for  Raspberry  Jam,  using  blackberries  in 
place  of  raspberries. 


576  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

MARMALADES 

Marmalades  are  made  of  the  pulp  and  juice  of  fruits  with 
sugar. 

Grape  Marmalade 

Pick  over,  wash,  drain,  and  remove  stems  from  grapes. 
Separate  pulp  from  skins.  Put  pulp  in  preserving  kettle. 
Heat  to  boiling-point,  and  cook  slowly  until  seeds  separate 
from  pulp  ;  then  rub  through  a  hair  sieve.  Return  to  kettle 
with  skins,  add  an  equal  measure  of  sugar,  and  cook  slowly 
thirty  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Put 
in  a  stone  jar  or  tumblers. 

Quince  Marmalade 

Wipe  quinces,  remove  blossom  ends,  cut  in  quarters,  re- 
move seeds  ;  then  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  preserving 
kettle,  and  add  enough  water  to  nearly  cover.  Cook  slowly 
until  soft.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  add  three-fourths 
its  measure  of  heated  sugar.  Cook  slowly  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.     Put  in  tumblers. 

Orange  Marmalade  I 

Select  sour,  smooth-skinned  oranges.  Weigh  oranges, 
and  allow  three-fourths  their  weight  in  cut  sugar.  Remove 
peel  from  oranges  in  quarters.  Cook  peel  until  soft  in 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover;  drain,  remove  white  part 
from  peel  by  scraping  it  with  a  spoon.  Cut  thin  yellow  rind 
in  strips,  using  a  pair  of  scissors.  This  is  more  quickly 
accomplished  by  cutting  through  two  or  three  pieces  at  a 
time.  Divide  oranges  in  sections,  remove  seeds  and  tough 
part  of  the  skin.  Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  heat  to 
boiling-point,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  cook  slowly  one 
hour;  add  rind,  and  cook  one  hour  longer.  Turn  into 
glasses. 

Orange  Marmalade  II 

Slice  nine  oranges  and  six  lemons  crosswise  with  a  sharp 
knife  as  thinly  as  possible,  remove  seeds,  and  put  in  a  pre- 


a 


d> 


-i 


Utensils  necessary  for  canning.  —  Page  577. 


Cakkkd  ¥uvm.  —  Page  S79. 


^j^^m^^^W^-''*'^'^''"'^^^'^T~ny^^'^m:m^»mmi> 


KeD   i*EPPERS   BEING   PREPARED   FOR   CANXIXG.  —  Page   5S1. 


Pickles  ready  for  serving   {Page  584).     Crock  for  keeping 

PiCKLESo 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  677 

serving  kettle  with  four  quarts  water.  Cover,  and  let  stand 
thirty-six  hours ;  then  boil  for  two  hours,  add  eight  pounds 
sugar,  and  boil  one  hour  longer. 

Orange  and  Rhubarb  Marmalade 

Remove  peel  in  quarters  from  eight  oranges  and  prepare 
as  for  Orange  Marmalade.  Divide  oranges  in  sections, 
remove  seeds  and  tough  part  of  skin.  Put  into  a  preserving 
kettle,  add  five  pounds  rhubarb,  skinned  and  cut  in  one-half 
inch  pieces.  Heat  to  boiling-point,  and  boil  one-half  hour; 
then  add  four  pounds  cut  sugar  and  cut  rind.  Cook  slowly 
two  hours.     Turn  into  glasses. 

Quince  Honey- 
Pare  and  grate  five  large  quinces.  To  one  pint  boiling 
water  add  five  pounds  sugar.  Stir  over  fire  until  sugar  is 
dissolved,  add  quince,  and  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Turn  into  glasses.  When  cold  it  should  be  about  the  color 
and  consistency  of  honey. 

CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 

Preserving  fruit  is  cooking  it  with  from  three-fourths  to  its 
whole  weight  of  sugar.  By  so  doing,  much  of  the  natural 
flavor  of  the  fruit  is  destroyed ;  therefore  canning  is  usually 
preferred  to  preserving. 

Canning  fruit  is  preserving  sterilized  fruit  in  sterilized  air- 
tight jars,  the  sugar  being  added  to  give  sweetness.  Fruits 
may  be  canned  without  sugar  if  perfectly  sterilized,  that  is, 
freed  from  all  germ  life. 

Directions  for  Canning 

Fruit  for  canning  should  be  fresh,  firm,  of  good  quality, 
and  not  over-ripe ;  if  over-ripe,  some  of  the  spores  may  sur- 
vive the  boiling,  then  fermentation  will  take  place  in  a  short 
time. 

For  canning  fruit,  allow  one-third  its  weight  in  sugar, 
and  two  and  one-half  to  three  cups  water  to  each  pound  of 
sugar.     Boil  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes  to  make  a  thin 

37 


578  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

syrup ;  then  cook  a  small  quantity  of  the  fruit  at  a  time  in 
the  syrup ;  by  so  doing,  fruit  may  be  kept  in  perfect  shape. 
Hard  fruits,  like  pineapple  and  quince,  are  cooked  in  boiling 
water  until  nearly  soft,  then  put  in  syrup  to  finish  cooking. 
Sterilized  jars  are  then  filled  with  fruit,  and  enough  syrup 
added  to  overflow  jars.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  syrup,  add 
boiling  water,  as  jars  must  be  filled  to  overflow.  Introduce 
a  spoon  between  fruit  and  jar,  that  air  bubbles  may  rise  to 
the  top  and  break ;  then  quickly  put  on  rubbers  and  screw 
on  sterilized  covers^  Let  stand  until  cold,  again  screw  cov- 
ers, being  sure  this  time  that  jars  are  air-tight.  While  filling 
jars,  place  them  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water. 

To  Sterilize  Jars 

Wash  jars  and  fill  with  cold  water.  Set  in  a  kettle  on  a 
trivet,  and  surround  with  cold  water.  Heat  gradually  to 
boiling-point,  remove  from  water,  empty,  and  fill  while  hot. 
Put  covers  in  hot  water  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Dip  rub- 
ber bands  in  hot  water,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  stand. 
New  rubbers  should  be  used  each  season,  and  care  must  be 
taken  that  rims  of  covers  are  not  bent,  as  jars  cannot  then 
be  hermetically  sealed. 

Canned  Porter  Apples 

Wipe,  quarter,  core,  and  pare  Porter  apples,  then  weigh. 
Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  for  ten  minutes  one- third  their 
weight  in  sugar  with  water,  allowing  two  and  one-half 
cups  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Cook  apples  in  syrup  until 
soft,  doing  a  few  at  a  time.  Fill  jars,  following  Directions 
for  Canning. 

Canned  Peaches 

Wipe  peaches  and  put  in  boiling  water,  allowing  them  to 
stand  just  long  enough  to  easily  loosen  skins.  Remove  skins 
and  cook  fruit  at  once,  that  it  may  not  discolor,  following 
Directions  for  Canning.  Some  prefer  to  pare  peaches, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  morning 
drain,  add  water  to  fruit  syrup,  bring  to  boiling-point,  and 
then  cook  fruit.  Peaches  may  be  cut  in  halves,  or  smaller 
pieces  if  desired. 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  679 

Camied  Pears 

Wipe  and  pare  fruit.  Cook  whole  with  stems  left  on,  or 
remove  stems,  cut  in  quarters,  and  core.  Follow  Directions 
for  Canning.  A  small  piece  of  ginger  root  or  a  few  slicings 
of  lemon  rind  may  be  cooked  with  syrup.  Bartlett  pears  are 
the  best  for  canning. 

Canned  Pineapples 

Remove  skin  and  eyes  from  pineapples  ;  then  cut  in  half- 
inch  slices,  and  slices  in  cubes,  at  the  same  time  discarding 
the  core.  Follow  Directions  for  Canning.  Pineapples  may  be 
shredded  and  cooked  in  one-half  their  weight  of  sugar  with- 
out water,  and  then  put  in  jars.  When  put  up  in  this  way 
they  are  useful  for  the  making  of  sherbets  and  fancy  des- 
serts. 

Canned  Quinces 

Wipe,  quarter,  core,  and  pare  quinces.  Follow  Directions 
for  Canning.  Quinces  may  be  cooked  with  an  equal  weight 
of  sweet  apples  wiped,  quartered,  cored,  and  paired  ;  in  this 
case  use  no  extra  sugar  for  apples. 

Canned  Cherries 

Use  large  white  or  red  cherries.  Wash,  remove  stems, 
then  follow  Directions  for  Canning. 

Canned  Huckleberries 

Pick  over  and  wash  berries,  then  put  in  a  preserving  ket- 
tle with  a  small  quantity  of  water  to  prevent  berries  from 
burning.  Cook  until  soft,  stirring  occasionally,  and  put 
in  jars.  No  sugar  is  required,  but  a  sprinkling  of  salt  is 
an  agreeable  addition. 

Canned  Rhubarb 

Pare  rhubarb  and  cut  in  one-inch  pieces.  Pack  in  a  jar, 
put  under  cold  water  faucet,  and  let  water  run  twenty  min- 
utes, then  screw  on  cover.  Rhubarb  canned  in  this  way  has 
often  been  known  to  keep  a  year. 


580  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Canned  Tomatoes 

Wipe  tomatoes,  cover  with  boilins:  water,  and  let  stand 
until  skins  may  be  easily  removed.  Cut  in  pieces  and  cook 
until  thoroughly  scalded ;  skim  often  during  cooking.  Fill 
jars,  following  directions  given. 

Damson  Preserves 

Wipe  damsons  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  wrung  out 
of  cold  water,  and  prick  each  fruit  five  or  six  times,  using 
a  large  needle ;  then  weigh.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  three- 
fourths  their  weight  in  sugar  with  water,  allowing  one  cup  to 
each  pound  of  sugar.  As  soon  as  syrup  reaches  boiling- 
point,  skim,  and  add  plums,  a  few  afc  a  time,  that  fruit  may 
better  keep  in  shape  during  cooking.  Cook  until  soft.  It  is 
well  to  use  two  kettles,  that  work  may  be  more  quickly  done, 
and  syrup  need  not  cook  too  long  a  time.  Put  into  glass  or 
stone  jars. 

Strawberry  Preserves 

Pick  over,  wash,  drain,  and  hull  strawberries  ;  then  weigh. 
Fill  glass  jars  with  berries.  Make  a  syrup  same  as  for 
Damson  Preserve,  cooking  the  syrup  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
syrup  to  overflow  jars ;  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  when  fruit 
will  have  shrunk,  and  more  fruit  must  be  added  to  fill  jars. 
Screw  on  covers,  put  on  a  trivet  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water, 
heat  water  to  boiling-point,  and  keep  just  below  boiling-point 
one  hour. 

Raspberries  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

Fear  Chips 

8  lbs.  pears  )^  lb.  Canton  ginger 

4  lbs.  sugar    .  4  lemons 

Wipe  pears,  remove  stems,  quarter,  and  core;  then  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Add  sugar  and  ginger,  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  lemons  cut  in  small  pieces,  re- 
jecting seeds,  and  cook  slowly  three  hours.  Put  into  a  stone 
jar. 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  681 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Preserve 

6  lbs.  currants  6  lbs.  sugar 

8  quarts  raspberries 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  drain  currants.  Put  into  a  preserv- 
ing kettle,  adding  a  few  at  a  time,  and  mash.  Cook  one 
hour,  strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth.  Re- 
turn to  kettle,  add  sugar,  heat  to  boiling-point,  and  cook 
slowly  twenty  minutes.  Add  one  quart  raspberries  when 
syrup  again  reaches  boiling-point,  skim  out  raspberries,  put 
in  jar,  and  repeat  until  raspberries  are  used.  Fill  jars  to 
overflowing  with  syrup,  and  screw  on  tops. 

Brandied  Peaches 

1  peck  peaches  Half  their  weight  in  sugar 

1  quart  high-proof  alcohol  or  brandy 

Remove  skins  from  peaches,  and  put  alternate  layers  of 
peaches  and  sugar  in  a  stone  jar ;  then  add  alcohol.  Cover 
closely,  having  a  heavy  piece  of  cloth  under  cover  of  jar. 

Tutti-Prutti 

Put  one  pint  brandy  into  a  stone  jar,  add  the  various 
fruits  as  they  come  into  market ;  to  each  quart  of  fruit  add 
the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  and  stir  the  mixture  each  morn- 
ing until  all  the  fruit  has  been  added.  Raspberries,  straw- 
berries, apricots,  peaches,  cherries,  and  pineapples  are  the 
best  to  use. 

Canned  Red  Peppers 

Wash  one  peck  red  peppers,  cut  a  slice  from  stem  end  of 
each,  and  remove  seeds  ;  then  cut  in  thin  strips  by  working 
around  and  around  the  peppers,  using  scissors  or  a  sharp 
vegetable  knife.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  two 
minutes,  drain,  and  plunge  into  ice- water.  Let  stand  ten 
jniuutes,  again  drain,  and  pack  solidly  into  pint  glass  jars. 
Poll  one  quart  vinegar  and  two  cups  sugar  fifteen  minutes. 
Pour  over  peppers  to  overflow  jars,  cover,  aod  keep  in  a  ggici 
place.  -      - 


582  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Preserved  Melon  Rind 

Pare  and  cut  in  strips  the  rind  of  ripe  melons.  Soak 
in  alum  water  to  cover,  allowing  two  teaspoons  powdered 
alum  to  each  quart  of  water.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling- 
point  and  cook  slowly  ten  minutes.  Drain,  cover  with  ice- 
water,  and  let  stand  two  hours  ;  again  drain,  and  dry  between 
towels.  Weigh,  allow  one  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit,  and  one  cup  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  ten  minutes.  Add  melon  rind,  and  cook  until 
tender.  Remove  rind  to  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  with  syrup. 
Two  lemons  cut  in  slices  may  be  cooked  ten  minutes  in  the 
syrup. 

Tomato  Preserve 

1  lb  yellow  pear  tomatoes  2  ozs.  preserved  Canton  ginger 

1  lb.  sugar  2  lemons 

Wipe  tomatoes,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  stand 
until  skins  may  be  easily  removed.  Add  sugar,  cover, 
and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  syrup 
and  boil  until  quite  thick ;  skim,  then  add  tomatoes,  gin- 
ger, and  lemons  which  have  been  sliced  and  the  seeds  re- 
moved.    Cook  until  tomatoes  have  a  clarified  appearance. 


PICKLING 

Pickling  is  preserving  in  any  salt  or  acid  liquor. 

Spiced  Currants 

7  lbs.  currants  3  tablespoons  cinnamon 

5  lbs.  brown  sugar  3  tablespoons  clove 

1  pint  vinegar 

Pick  over  currants,  wash,  drain,  and  remove  stems.  Put 
in  a  preserving  kettle,  add  sugar,  vinegar,  and  spices  tied 
in  a  piece  of  muslin.  Heat  to  boiling-point,  and  cook  slowly 
one  and  one-half  hours.  Store  in  a  stone  jar  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place.  Spiced  currants  are  a  delicious  accompaniment 
to  cold  meat- 


PICKLlNa  683 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

}i  peck  peaches  1  pint  vinegar 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  oz.  stick  cinnamon 

Cloves 

Boil  sugar,  vinegar,  and  cinnamon  twenty  minutes.  Dip 
peaches  quickly  in  hot  water,  then  rub  off  the  fur  with  a 
towel.  Stick  each  peach  with  four  cloves.  Put  into  syrup, 
and  cook  until  soft,  using  one-half  peaches  at  a  time. 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears 

Follow  recipe  for  Sweet  Pickled  Peaches,  using  pears  in 
place  of  peaches. 

Beet  Relish 

1  cup  chopped  cold  cooked  beets     2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
3  tablespoons   grated  horserad-     2  teaspoons  powdered  sugar 
ish  root  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Canned  beets  may  be 
used  in  place  of  fresh  ones,  and  bottled  horseradish  if  of 
strong  flavor  and  well  drained.  This  is  delicious  served 
with  cold  meat  or  fish. 

Celery  Relish 

1%  cups  chopped  celery  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  powdered  sugar      %  teaspoon  mustard 
^  cup  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Cover  and  let  stand  in 
a  cold  place  one  and  one-half  hours.  Drain  off  the  liquid 
before  serving.  When  preparing  celery  include  some  of 
the  small  tender  leaves. 

Tomato  and  Celery  Relish 
1  onion  \  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  large  green  pepper  2. tablespoons  sugar 

1  large  bunch  celery  /  u^^^  ^/i  2  allspice  berries 

2}4  cups  canned  or  fresh    ^^^pped  ^  ^^^  vinegar 

tomatoes  J 

Mix  ingredients,  heat  gradually  to  the  boiling-point,  and 
cook  slowly  one  and  one-half  hours.  Cayenne  or  mustard 
may  be  added  if  liked  more  highly  seasoned. 


584  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Chili  Sauce 

12  medium-sized  iipe  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  pepper,  finely  chopped  2  teaspoons  clove 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2  cups  vinegar  2  teaspoons  allspice 

3  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  grated  nutmeg 

Peel  tomatoes  and  slice.  Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  w^ith 
remaining  ingredients.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling-point,  and 
cook  slowly  two  and  one-half  hours. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle 

8  pinte  tomatoes,  peeled  4  tablespoons  salt 

and  chopped  6  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  chopped  celery  6  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

4  tablespoons  chopped  red  %  teaspoon  clove 

pepper  y^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  tablespoons  chopped  onion      1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 
2  cups  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  and 
cover.  This  uncooked  mixture  must  stand  a  week  before 
using,  but  may  be  kept  a  year. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickle 

Cut  cucumbers  in  halves  lengthwise.  Cover  with  alum' 
water,  allowing  two  teaspoons  powdered  alum  to  each  quart 
of  water.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling-point,  then  let  stand  on 
back  of  range  two  hours.  Eemove  from  alum  water  and 
chill  in  ice-water.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  five  minutes  two 
pounds  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  with  two  tablespoons  each 
of  whole  cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin. 
Add  cucumbers  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Remove  cucumbers 
to  a  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  the  syrup.  Scald  syrup  three 
successive  mornings,  and  return  to  cucumbers. 

Unripe  Cucumber  Pickles  (Gherkins) 

Wipe  four  quarts  small  unripe  cucumbers.  Put  in  a  stone 
jar  and  add  one  cup  salt  dissolved  in  two  quarts  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  three  days.  Drain  cucumbers  from 
brine,  bring  brine  to  boiling-point,  pour  over  cucumbers,  and 


PICKLING  685 

again  let  stand  three  days  ;  repeat.  Drain,  wipe  cucumbers, 
and  pour  over  one  gallon  boiling  water  in  which  one  table- 
spoon alum  has  been  dissolved.  Let  stand  six  hours,  then 
drain  from  alum  water.  Cook  cucumbers  ten  minutes,  a  few 
at  a  time,  in  one -fourth  the  following  mixture  heated  to  the 
boiling-point  and  boiled  ten  minutes :  — 

1  gallon  vinegar  2  sticks  cinnamon 

4  red  peppers  2  tablespoons  allspice  berries 

2  tablespoons  cloves 

Strain  remaining  liquor  over  pickles  which  have  been  put 
in  a  stone  jar. 

Chopped  Pickles 

4  quarts  chopped  green  tomatoes  3  teaspoons  allspice 

%  cup  salt  3  teaspoons  cloves 

2  teaspoons  pepper  }^  cup  white  mustard  seed 

3  teaspoons  mustard  4  green  peppers,  sliced 
3  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  chopped  onions 

2  quarts  vinegar 

Add  salt  to  tomatoes,  cover,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
and  drain.  Add  spices  to  vinegar,  and  heat  to  boiling- 
point;  then  add  tomatoes,  peppers,  and  onions,  bring  to 
boiling-point,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  after  boiling-point 
is  reached.  Store  in  a  stone  jar  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place. 


Spanish  Pickles 

1  peck  green  tomatoes,  i^  oz.  peppercorns 

thinly  sliced  i^  cup  brown  mustard  seed 

4  onions,  thinly  sliced  1  lb.  brown  sugar 

1  cup  salt  4  green  peppers,  finely 
%  oz.  cloves  chopped 

j^  oz.  allspice  berries  Cider  vinegar 

Sprinkle  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes  and  onions  with  salt, 
and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  put  in 
a  preserving  kettle,  adding  remaining  ingredients,  using 
enough  vinegar  to  cover  all.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling-point 
and  boil  one-half  hour. 


586  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 


Chow-Chow 

2  quarts  small  green  tomatoes  ^  lb.  mustard  seed 
12  small  cucumbers  2  oz.  turmeric 

3  red  peppers  ^  )^  oz.  allspice 

1  cauliflower  %  oz.  pepper 

2  bunches  celery  y^  oz.  clove 

1  pint  small  onions  Salt 

2  quarts  string  beans  1  gallon  vinegar 

Prepare  vegetables  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  with 
salt,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  and  drain.  Heat  vinegar 
and  spices  to  boiling-point,  add  vegetables,  and  cook  until 
soft. 

Pickled   Onions 

Peel  small  white  onions,  cover  with  brine,  allowing  one  and 
one-half  cups  salt  to  two  quarts  boiling  water,  and  let  stand 
two  days;  drain,  and  cover  with  more  brine  ;  let  stand  two 
days,  and  again  drain.  Make  more  brine  and  heat  to  boil- 
ing-point ;  put  in  onions  and  boil  three  minutes.  Put  in  jars, 
interspersing  with  bits  of  mace,  white  peppercorns,  cloves, 
bits  of  bay  leaf,  and  slices  of  red  pepper.  Fill  j'lrs  to  over- 
flow with  vinegar  scalded  with  sugar,  allowing  one  cup  sugar 
to  one  gallon  vinegar.     Cork  while  hot. 


c 


HELPFUL   HINTS   FOR   THE   YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPER      587 


CHAPTER  XXXVn 

HELPFXTL  HINTS  FOR  TEE  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER 

To  Scald  Milk.  Put  in  top  of  double  boiler,  having 
water  boiling  in  under  part.  Cover,  and  let  stand  on  top  of 
range  until  milk  around  edge  of  double  boiler  has  a  bead- 
like appearance. 

For  Buttered  Cracker  Crumbs,  allow  from  one-fourth  to 
one-third  cup  melted  butter  to  each  cup  of  crumbs.  Stir 
lightly  with  a  fork  in  mixing,  that  crumbs  may  be  evenly 
coated  and  light  rather  than  compact. 

To  Cream  Butter.  Put  in  a  bowl  and  work  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  soft  and  of  creamy  consistency.  Should  butter- 
milk exude  from  butter  it  should  be  poured  off. 

To  Extract  Juice  from  Onion.  Cut  a  slice  from  root  end 
of  onion,  draw  back  the  skin,  and  press  onion  on  a  coarse 
grater,  working  with  a  rotary  motion. 

To  Chop  Parsley.  ^^emove  leaves  from  parsley.  If 
parsley  is  wet,  first  dry  in  a  towel.  Gather  parsley  between 
thumb  and  fingers  and  press  compactly.  With  a  sharp 
vegetable  knife  cut  through  and  through.  Agaiu  gather  in 
fingers  and  recut,  so  continuing  until  parsley  is  finely  cut. 

To  Caramelize  Sugar.  Put  in  a  smooth  granite  saucepan 
or  omelet  pan,  place  over  hot  part  of  range,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  melted  and  of  the  color  of  maple  syrup.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  prevent  sugar  from  adhering  to  sides  of 
pan  or  spoon. 

To  Make  Caramel.  Continue  the  caramelization  of  sugar 
until  syrup  is  quite  brown  and  a  whitish  smoke  arises  from 


588  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

it.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  boiling  water,  and  simmer 
until  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick  syrup.  Of  use  in  coloring 
soups,  sauces,  etc. 

Acidulated  Water  is  water  to  which  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  is  added.  One  tablespoon  of  the  acid  is  allowed  to 
one  quart  water. 

To  Blanch  Almonds.  Cover  Jordan  almonds  with  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  two  minutes  ;  drain,  put  into  cold  water, 
and  rub  off  the  skins.     Dry  between  towels. 

To  Shred  Almonds.  Cut  blanched  almonds  in  thin  strips 
lengthwise  of  the  nut. 

Macaroon  Dust.     Dry  macaroons  pounded  and  sifted. 

To  Shell  Chestnuts.  Cut  a  half- inch  gash  on  flat  sides 
and  put  in  an  omelet  pan,  allowing  one-half  teaspoon  butter 
to  each  cup  chestnuts.  Shake  over  range  until  butter  is 
melted.  Put  in  oven  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven,  and  with  a  small  knife  take  off  shells.  By  this 
method  shelling  and  blanching  is  accomplished  at  the  same 
time,  as  skins  adhere  to  shells. 

riavoring  Extracts  and  "Wine  should  be  added  if  possible 
to  a  mixture  when  cold.  If  added  while  mixture  is  hot, 
much  of  the  goodness  passes  off  with  the  steam. 

Meat  Glaze.     Four  quarts  stock  reduced  to  one  cup. 

Mixed  Mustard.  Mix  two  tablespoons  mustard  and  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  add  hot  water  gradually  until  of  the  con- 
sistency of  a  thick  paste.  Vinegar  may  be  used  in  place  of 
water. 

To  Prevent  Salt  from  Lumping.  Mix  with  corn-starch, 
allowing  one  teaspoon  corn-starch  to  six  teaspoons  salt. 

To  Wash  Carafes.  Half  fill  with  hot  soapsuds,  to  which 
is  added  one  teaspoon  washing  soda.  Put  in  newspaper  torn 
in  small  pieces.  Let  stand  one-half  hour,  occasionally  shak- 
ing. Empty,  rinse  with  hot  water,  drain,  wipe  outside,  and 
let  stand  to  dry  inside. 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOR  THE  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER   589 

After  Broiling  or  Frying,  if  any  fat  has  spattered  on  range, 
wipe  surface  at  once  with  newspaper. 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains.  Pour  boiling  water  over  stained 
surface,  having  it  fall  from  a  distance  of  three  feet.  This 
is  a  much  better  way  than  dipping  staii#  in  and  out  of  hot 
water;  or  wring  articles  out  of  cdd  water  and  hang" out  of 
doors  on  a  frosty  night. 

To  Remove  Stains  of  Claret  "Wine.  As  soon  as  claret 
is  spilt,  cover  spot  with  salt.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes, 
then  rinse  in  cold  water. 

To  Clean  Graniteware  where  mixtures  have  been  cooked 
or  burned  on.  Half  fill  with  cold  water,  add  washing  soda, 
heat  water  gradually  to  boiling-point,  then  empty,  when  dish 
may  be  easily  washed.  Any  soap-powder  may  be  used  in 
place  of  washing  soda. 

To  "Wash  Mirrors  and  "Windo-ws.  Rub  over  with  chamois 
skin  wrung  out  of  warm  water,  then  wipe  with  a  piece  of  dry 
chamois  skin.     This  method  saves  much  strength. 

To  Remove  "White  Spots  from  Furniture.  Dip  a  cloth 
in  hot  water  nearly  to  boiling-point.  Place  over  spot,  remove 
quickly,  and  rub  over  spot  with  a  dry  cloth.  Repeat  if  spot 
is  not  removed.  Alcohol  or  camphor  quickly  applied  may 
be  used. 

Tumblers  which  have  contained  milk  should  be  first  rinsed 
in  cold  water  before  washing  in  hot  water. 

To  keep  a  Sink  Drain  free  from  grease,  pour  down  once 
a  Y'eek  at  night  one-half  can  potash  dissolved  in  one  quart 
water. 

Should  Sink  Drain  chance  to  get  choked,  pour  into  sink 
one-fourth  pound  copperas  dissolved  in  two  quarts  boiling 
water.  If  this  is  not  efficacious,  repeat  before  sending  for  a 
plumber. 

Never  put  Knives  with  ivory  handles  iu  welter.  Hot  water 
causes  them  to  crack  and  discolor, 


590  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

To  prevent  Glassware  from  being  easily  broken,  put  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water,  heat  gradually  until  water  has  reached 
boiling-point.  Set  aside  ;  when  water  is  cold  take  out  glass. 
This  is  a  most  desirable  way  to  toughen  lamp  chimneys. 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots.  Cold  water  and  Ivory  Soap 
will  remove  grease  spots  from  cotton  and  woollen  fabrics. 
Castilian  Cream  is  useful  for  black  woollen  goods,  but  leaves 
a  light  ring  on  delicately  colored  goods.  Ether  is  always  sure 
and  safe  to  use. 

To  Remove  Iron  Rust.  Saturate  spot  with  lemon  juice, 
then  cover  with  salt.  Let  stand  in  the  sun  for  several  hours; 
or  a  solution  of  hydrochloric  acid  may  be  used. 

Iron  Rust  may  be  removed  from  delicate  fabrics  by  cov- 
ering spot  thickly  with  cream  of  tartar,  then  twisting  cloth 
to  keep  cream  of  tartar  over  spot ;  put  in  a  saucepan  of  cold 
water,  and  heat  water  gradually  to  boiling-point. 

To  Remove  Grass  Stains  from  cotton  goods,  wash  in 
alcohol. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains.  Wash  in  a  solution  of  hydro- 
chloric acid,  and  rinse  in  ammonia  water.  Wet  the  spot 
with  warm  water,  put  on  Sapolio,  rub  gently  between  the 
hands,  and  generally  the  spot  will  disappear. 

Cut  Glass  should  be  washed  and  rinsed  in  water  that  is 
not  very  hot  and  of  same  temperature. 

In  Sweeping  Carpets,  keep  broom  close  to  floor  and  work 
with  the  grain  of  the  carpet.  Occasionally  turn  broom  that 
it  may  wear  evenly. 

Tie  Strands  of  a  New  Broom  closely  together,  put  into 
a  pail  of  boiling  water,  and  soak  two  hours.  Dry  thoroughly 
before  using. 

Never  wash  the  inside  of  Tea  or  Coffee  Pots  with  soap- 
suds. If  granite  or  agate  ware  is  used,  and  becomes  badly 
discolored,  nearly  fill  pot  with  cold  water,  add  one  table- 
spoon borax,  and  heat  gradually  until  water  reaches^  the  boil- 


HELPFUL  HINTS  FOB  THE  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPER   591 

iDg-point.     Rinse  with  hot  water,  wipe,  and  keep  on  back  of 
range  until  perfectly  dry. 

Never  put  cogs  of  an  Egg-beater  in  water. 

Never  wash  Bread  Boards  in  a  sink.  Scrub  with  grain  of 
wood,  using  a  small  brush. 

Before  using  a  new  Iron  Kettle,  grease  inside  and  outside, 
and  let  stand  forty -eight  hours  ;  then  wash  in  hot  water  in 
which  a  large  lump  of  cooking  soda  has  been  dissolved. 

To  clean  a  Copper  Boiler,  use  Putz  Pomade  Cream.  Ap- 
ply with  a  woollen  cloth  when  boiler  is  warm,  not  hot ;  then 
rub  off  with  second  woollen  cloth  and  polish  with  flannel  or 
chamois.  If  badly  tarnished,  use  oxalic  acid.  Faucets  and 
brasses  are  treated  in  the  same  way. 

A  bottle  containing  Oxalic  Acid  should  be  marked  poison, 
and  kept  on  a  high  shelf. 

To  keep  an  Ice  Chest  in  good  condition,  wash  thoroughly 
once  a  week  with  cold  or  lukewarm  water  in  which  washing 
soda  has  been  dissolved.  If  by  chance  anything  is  spilt  in 
an  ice  chest,  it  should  be  wiped  off  at  once. 

Milk  and  butter  very  quickly  absorb  odors,  and  if  in  ice 
chest  with  other  foods,  should  be  kept  closely  covered. 

Hard  "Wood  Floors  and  Furniture  may  be  polished  by 
using  a  small  quantity  of  kerosene  oil  applied  with  a  woollen 
cloth,  then  rubbing  with  a  clean  woollen  cloth.  A  very  good 
furniture  polish  is  made  by  using  equal  parts  linseed  oil  and 
turpentine. 

Polish  for  Hard  "Wood  Floors.  Use  one  part  beeswax 
to  two  parts  turpentine.  Put  in  saucepan  on  range,  and 
when  wax  is  dissolved  a  paste  will  be  formed. 

To  clean  Piano  Keys,  rub  over  with  alcohol. 

To  remove  old  Tea  and  Coffee  Stains,  wet  spot  with  cold 
water,  cover  with  glycerine,  and  let  stand  two  or  three  hours. 
Then  wash  with  cold  water  and  hard  soap.  Repeat  if 
necessary. 


0 


592  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Before  Sweeping  Old  Carpets,  sprinkle  with  pieces  of 
newspaper  wrung  out  of  water.  After  sweeping,  wipe  over 
with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  a  weak  solution  of  ammonia  water, 
which  seems  to  brighten  colors. 

Piatt's  Chloride  is  one  of  the  best  Disinfectants.  Chloride 
of  lime  is  a  valuable  disinfectant,  and  much  cheaper  than 
Piatt's  Chloride. 

Listerine  is  an  excellent  disinfectant  to  use  for  the  mouth 
and  throat. 

To  Make  a  Pastry  Bag.  Fold  a  twelve-inch  square  of 
rubber  cloth  from  two  opposite  corners.  Sew  edges  together, 
forming  a  triangular  bag.  Cut  off  point  to  make  opening 
large  enough  to  insert  a  tin  pastry  tube.  A  set  comprising 
bag  and  twelve  adjustable  tubes  may  be  bought  for  two  and 
one-half  dollars. 

Smoked  Ceilings  may  be  cleaned  by  washing  with  cloths 
wrung  out  of  water  in  which  a  small  piece  of  washing  soda 
has  been  dissolved. 

For  a  Burn  apply  equal  parts  of  white  of  egg  and  olive 
oil  mixed  together,  then  cover  with  a  piece  of  old  linen ;  if 
applied  at  once  no  blister  will  form.  Or  apply  at  once  cook- 
ing soda,  then  cover  with  cloth  and  keep  the  same  wet  with 
cold  water.    This  takes  out  the  pain  and  prevents  blistering. 

Curtain  and  Portiere  Poles  allow  the  hangings  to  slip 
easily  if  rubbed  with  hard  soap.  This  is  much  better  than 
greasing. 

Creaking  Doors  and  Drawers  should  be  treated  in  the 
same  way. 

To  Remove  Dust  from  Rattan  Furniture  use  a  painter's 
small  brush. 


SUITABLE  COMBINATIONS  FOR   SERYING  693 

CHAPTER   XXXVIII 
SUITABLE   COMBINATIONS   FOR   SERVING 

Breakfast  Menus  i 

Oranges 

Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Spider  Com  Cake  Breakfast  Bacon 

CofEee 


Halves  of  Grape  Fruit 
Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream  Eggs  h.  la  Buckingham 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Apple  Sauce  Griddle  Cakes,  Maple  Syrup 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Brown  Bread  Toast  Doughnuts  Boiled  Eggs 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Dates 

Fried  Sausages         Creamed  Potatoes         Queen  Muffins 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Strawberry  Shortcakes 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Blueberry  Muffins  Boiled  Eggs 

Coffee 


594  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Rye  Muffins  Broiled  Liver  Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Coffee 


Fried  Hominy,  Maple  Syrup  Raised  Biscuits 

Sliced  Peaches 

Coffee 


Halves  of  Canteloupes 

Dried  Beef  in  Cream  Pop-overs 

Coffee 

Raspberries  Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

German  Toast 

Coffee 


Iced  Currants  Foamy  Omelet  Sauted  Potatoes 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins 

Coffee 


Watermelon  Slices 
Scrambled  Eggs  Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

Coffee 


Blackberries 

Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Breakfast  Bacon  Hashed  Browned  Potatoes 

Buttered  Toast 

Coffee 


Grapes  Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomatoes  Cornmeal  Muffins 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Stewed  Prunes  Brioche  Cakes 

Coffee 


SUITABLE   COMBINATIONS  FOR   SERVING  595 

Baked  Apples  Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Chickens'  Livers  Popovers  Coffee 


Sliced  Bananas  Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

French  Omelet  Raised  Hominy  Muffins 

Coffee 


Oranges 
Salt  Codfish  Hash  Golden  Corn  Cake  Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 
Minced  Lamb  on  Toast  Crullers  Coffee 


Baked  Bananas  Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Boiled  Eggs  Brown  Bread  Cream  Toast 

Coffee 


Halves  of  Grape  Fruit 
Breakfast  Bacon  Creamed  Potatoes  Graham  Gems 

Coffee 


Oranges  Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Dried  Beef  with  Cream  Rye  Muffins  Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Stewed  Prunes  Dropped  Eggs  on  Toast 

Coffee 


Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 
Waffles  Apple  Sauce  Coffee 


Luncheon  Menus 

Grilled  Sardines 
Baked  Apples  with  Cream  Rolls  Sponge  Cakq 

Cocoa 


696  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Creamed  Chicken 

Celery  Rolls 

Grapes  and  Apples 

Tea 


Lamb  Croquettes 

Dressed  Lettuce  Baking- Powder  Biscuit 

Gingerbread  Cheese 

Tea 


Split  Pea  Soup  Crisp  Crackers 

Egg  Salad  Entire  Wheat  Bread 

Oranges 
Cocoa 


Cold  Sliced  Meat  Cheese  Fondue 

Bread  and  Butter 

Sliced  Peaches  Cookies 

Old  Grist  Mill  Coffee 


Broiled  Ham  Scalloped  Potatoes 

Brown  Bread  and  Butter 
Sliced  Oranges  Wafers 


Scalloped  Oysters 

Rolls 

Dressed  Celery 

Polish  Tartlets 

Tea 

Salmi  of  Lamb  Olives 

Bread  and  Butter 
Cake  Chocolate 


Oyster  Stew 
Oyster  Crackers  or  Dry  Toast 
Pickles 
Cream  Whips  Lady  Fingers 


698  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Cold  Sliced  Corned  Beef 
Corn  k  la  Southern 
Entire  Wheat  Bread  and  Butter  ~ 

Grapes  and  Pears 


Dinner  Menus 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Roast  Beef  Franconia  Potatoes  Yorkshire  Pudding 

Macaroni  with  Cheese  Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad 

Chocolate  Cream 

Cafe  Noir 


Tomato  Soup 

Baked  Fish  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Shadow  Potatoes  Cole  Slaw 

Fig  Pudding 

Crackers  Cheese  Cafe  Noir 


Potato  Soup 

Boiled  Fowl  Egg  Sauce  Boiled  Rice  Mashed  Turnips 

Celory  Vegetable  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding 


Macaroni  Soup 

Fricassee  of  Lamb  Riced  Potatoes  Stewed  Tomatoes 

String  Bean  and  Radish  Salad 

Fruit  and  Nuts 


Duchess  Soup 

Fried  Fillets  of  Halibut  Shredded  Potatoes  Hot  Slaw 

Beefsteak  Pie 

Msh  Moss  Blanc- Mange  with 

Vanilla  Wafers 


SUITABLE  COMBINATIONS  FOR   SERVING  699 

Kornlet  Soup 

Maryland  Chicken  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Cauliflower  Cranberry  Sauce 

Dressed  Lettuce  Polish  Tartlets 

Cafe  Noir 


Vegetable  Soup 

Veal  Cutlets  Horseradish  Mashed  Potatoes 

Cream  of  Lima  Beans  Dressed  Celery 

Cerealine  Pudding 


St.  Germain  Soup 

Beefsteak  with  Oyster  Blanket  Stuffed  Potatoes  Spinach 

Pineapple  Pudding  Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Cafe  Noir 


White  Soup 

Boiled  Salmon         Egg  Sauce         Boiled  Potatoes  Green  Peas 

Cucumbers 

Strawberries  and  cream  Cake 


Tomato  Soup  without  Stock 
Braised  Beef  Horseradish  Sauce  Scalloped  Potatoes 

Squash 
Baked  Indian  Pudding  Cafd  Noir 


Bisque  Soup 

Broiled  Shad  Chartreuse  Potatoes  Asparagus  on  Toast 

Cucumber  and  Lettuce  Salad 

Prune  Whip  Custard  Sauce 


Cream  of  Pea  Soup 

Boiled  Mutton  Caper  Sauce  Mashed  Potatoes 

Turkish  Pilaf 

Graham  Pudding  Fruit  and  Nuts 


600  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 

Turkish  Soup 
Lamb  Chops  French  Fried  Potatoes  Apple  Fritters 

Beet  Greens 
■      Caramel  Custard  Cafe  Noir 


Irish  Stew  with  Dumplings 

Fish  Croquettes  Dinner  Rolls  Radishes 

Custard  Souffle  Creamy  Sauce 

Crackers  Cheese 


Black  Bean  Soup 

Halibut  h  la  Creole  Potatoes  en  Surprise 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Swiss  Pudding  Cafe  Noir 


Cream  of  Clam  Soup 

Fried  Chicken  Boiled  Potatoes 

Sliced  Tomatoes  Shell  Beans 

Peach  Short- Cake  Crackers  and  Cheese 


Cream  of  Lima  Bean  Soup 

Roast  Duck  Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Rice  Croquettes  with  Currant  Jelly 

Grapes  Pears 

Crackers  Cheese  Cafe  Noir 


Chicken  Soup 

Broiled  Sword  Fish  Cucumber  Sauce 

Baked  New  Potatoes  Sugared  Beets 

Strawberry  Cottage  Pudding 

Iced  Coffee 


1^ 

Oh 
I 
3 


C5i 


A  FULL  COtTRSE  DINNER  601 

Menu  for  New  England  Thanksgiving  Dinner 

Oyster  Soup  Crisp  Crackers 

Celery  Salted  Almonds 

Roast  Stuffed  Turkey       Giblet  Gravy  Cranberry  Jelly 

Mashed  Potatoes      Onions  in  Cream  Turnips 

Chicken  Pie 
Thanksgiving  Pudding  Sterling  Sauce 

Mince,  Apple,  and  Squash  Pie 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  Fancy  Cakes 

Fruit  Nuts  and  Raisins  Bonbons 

Crackers  Cheese  Cafe  Noir 


Menu  for  Christmas  Dinner 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Consomm6  Bread  Sticks 

Olives  Celery  Salted  Pecans 

Roast  Goose  Potato  Stuffing  Apple  Sauce 

Duchess  Potatoes  Cream  of  Lima  Beans 

Chicken  Croquettes  with  Green  Peas 

Dressed  Lettuce  with  Cheese  Straws 

English  Plum  Pudding  Brandy  Sauce 

Frozen  Pudding  Assorted  Cake  Bonbons 

Crackers  Cheese  Cafe  Noir 


A  Full  Course  Dinner 

First  Course 

Little  Neck  Clams  or  Bluepoints,  with  brown-bread  sandr 
wiches.  Sometimes  canapes  are  used  in  place  of  either.  For 
a  gentleman's  dinner,  canapes  accompanied  with  Sherry  wine 
are  frequently  served  before  guests  enter  the  dining-room. 

Second  Course 

Clear  soup,  with  bread  sticks,  small  rolls,  or  crisp  crackers. 
Where  two  soups  are  served,  one  may  be  a  cream  soup. 
Cream  soups  are  served  with  croutons.  Radishes,  celery,  or 
olives  are  passed  after  the  soup.  Salted  almonds  may  be 
passed  between  any  of  the  courses. 


602  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Third  Course 
Bouchees  or  rissoles.     The  filling  to  be  of  light  meat. 

Fourth  Course 
Fish,  baked,  boiled,  or  fried.     Cole  slaw,  dressed  cucum- 
bers, or  tomatoes  accompany  this  course;  with   fried  fish 
potatoes  are  often  served. 

Fifth  Course 
Roast  saddle  of  venison  or  mutton,  spring  lamb,  or  fillet 
of  beef ;  potatoes  and  one  other  vegetable. 

Sixth  Course 
Entree,  made  of  light  meat  or  fish. 

Seventh  Course 

A  vegetable.  Mushrooms,  cauliflower,  asparagus,  or  arti- 
chokes are  served. 

Eighth  Course 

Punch  or  cheese  course.  Punch,  when  served,  always 
precedes  the  game  course. 

Ninth  Course 
Game,  with  vegetable  salad,  usually  lettuce  or  celery;  or 
cheese  sticks  may  be  served  with  the  salad,  and  game  omitted. 

Tenth  Course 
Dessert,  usually  cold. 

Eleventh  Course 
Frozen  dessert  and   fancy  cakes.     Bonbons  are  passed 
after  this  course. 

Twelfth  Course 

Cracker,  cheese,  and  cafe  noir.  Cafe  noir  is  frequently 
served  in  the  drawing  and  smoking  rooms  after  the  dinner. 

Where  wines  and  liquors  are  served,  the  first  course  is  not 
usually  accompanied  by  either ;  but  if  desired,  Sauterne  or 
other  white  wine  may  be  used. 

With  soup,  serve  Sherry ;  with  fish,  white  wine ;  with 
game,  Claret  j  with  roast  and  other  courses,  Champagne, 


MENUS   FOR    FULL  COURSE    DINNERS  603 

After  serving  xafe  noir  in  drawing-room,  pass  pony  of 
brandy  for  men,  sweet  liqueur  (Chartreuse,  Benedictine,  or 
Parfait  d'Amour)  for  women ;  then  Creme  de  Menthe  for  all. 

After  a  short  time  Apollinaris  should  be  passed.  White 
wines  should  be  served  cool;  Sherry  should  be  as  near  the 
temperature  of  the  room  in  which  it  is  served  as  possible. 
Champagne  should  be  served  very  cold  by  allowing  it  to 
remain  in  salt  and  ice  at  least  one-half  hour  before  dinner 
time.  Claret,  served  without  cooling,  and  as  it  contains  so 
small  amount  of  alchohol,  is  not  good  the  day  after  opening. 

For  a  simpler  dinner,  the  third,  seventh,  eighth,  and  tenth 
courses,  and  the  game  in  the  ninth  course,  may  be  omitted. 

For  a  home  dinner,  it  is  always  desirable  to  serve  for  first 
course  a  soup;  second  course,  meat  or  fish,  with  potatoes 
and  two  other  vegetables ;  third  course,  a  vegetable  salad, 
with  French  dressing ;  fourth  course,  dessert ;  fifth  course, 
crackers,  cheese,  and  cafe  noir. 

At  a  ladies'  luncheon  the  courses  are  as  many  as  at  a 
small  dinner.  In  winter,  grape  fruit  is  sometimes  served 
in  place  of  oysters;  in  summer,  selected  strawberries  in 
small  Swedish  Timbale  cases. 

Menus  for  Full  Course  Dinners 

Blue  Points 

Consommd  k  la  Royal 

Olives  Celery  Salted  Almonds 

Swedish  Timbales  with  Chicken  and  Mushrooms 

Fried  Smelts  Sauce  Tartare  Dressed  Cucumbers 

Saddle  of  Mutton  Currant  Jelly  Sauce 

Potatoes  Brabant  '      Brussels  Sprouts 

Supreme  of  Chicken 

Mushrooms  k  la  Sabine 

Canton  Sherbet 

Canvasback  Duck  Olive  Sauce 

Farina  Cakes  with  Jelly 

Celery  Salad 

Apricot  and  Wine  Jelly 

JCes^elrode  Pudding  Rolled  Wafers  Parisian  Sweets 

Crackers  Cheese 

Cafe  Noir 


504  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 

Little  Neck  Clams 

Consomme  au  Parmesan 

Olives  Salted  Pecans 

Bouch^es 

Fillets  of  Halibut  k  la  Poulette  with  Mayonnaise 

Tomatoes  Delmonico  Potatoes  String  Beans 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef  with  Horseradish  Sauce 

Glazed  Sweetbreads 

Artichokes  with  Bechamel  Sauce 

Sorbet 

Broiled  Quail  with  Lettuce  and  Celery  Salad 

Banana  Cantaloupe 

Sultana  Roll  with  Claret  Sauce 

Cinnamon  Bars  Lady  Fingers  Bonbons 

Crackers  Cheese 

Caffe  Noir 


Anchovy  Canapds 
Julienne  Soup 
Olives  Celery  Ginger  Chips 

Oyster  and  Macaroni  Croquettes 

Stuffed  Fillets  of  Halibut,  French  HoUandaise  Sauce 

Tomato  Jelly  Spring  Lamb  Potato  Fritters 

Asparagus  Tips  with  HoUandaise  Sauce 

Chaud-froid  of  Chicken 

Cr^me  de  Menthe  Ice 

l,arded  Grouse  Bread  Sauce  Lettuce  and  Radish  Salad 

Mont  Blanc 
Bombe  Glacee        Sponge  Drops       Almond  Crescents       Bonbons 
Crackers  Cheese 

Caf6  Noir 


GLOSSARY 


Accolade  de  perdreaux.  Brace  of 
partridge. 

Agneau.    Lamb. 

Agra  dolce  (sour  sweet).  An  Italian 
sauce  served  with  meat. 

A  la,  au,  aux.  With  or  dressed  in  a 
certain  style. 

AUemande  {a  la).    In  German  style. 

Ambrosia.  Food  for  the  gods.  Often 
applied  to  a  fruit  salad. 

Americaine  (a  P).    In  American  style. 

Ancienne  (h  P).    In  old  style. 

Angelica.  A  plant,  the  stalks  of  which 
are  preserved  and  used  for  decorating 
moulds. 

Asafetida.  A  gum  resin.  Its  taste  is 
bitter  and  sub-acrid,  and  by  the  Asiatics 
it  is  used  regularly  as  a  condiment. 

Asj)erges.    Asparagus. 

Au  gratin.    With  browned  crumbs. 

Aurora  sauce.  A  white  saucb  to  which 
lolbster  butter  is  added. 

Avena.    Oats. 

Bdba  Cakes.  Cakes  baked  in  small 
moulds ;  made  from  a  yeast  dough  mix- 
ture to  which  is  added  butter,  sugar, 
eggs,  raisins,  and  almonds.  Served  as  a 
pudding  with  hot  sauce. 

Bain-Marie.  A  vessel  of  any  kind  con- 
taining heated  water,  in  which  other 
vessels  are  placed  in  order  to  -keep  their 
contents  heated. 

Bannocks.  Scottish  cakes  made  of  bar- 
ley or  oatmeal,  cooked  on  a  griddle. 

Bards.  Slices  of  pork  or  bacon  to  lay 
on  the  breast  of  game  for  cooking. 

Basil.    A  pot  herb. 

Bay  leaves.  Leaves  from  a  species  of 
laurel. 

Bearnaise  {h  la).    In  Swiss  style. 

BSarnaise  sauce.  Named  from  Bear- 
naise, Swiss  home  of  Henry  IV. 

Bechamel  (A  la).  With  sauce  made  of 
chicken  stock  and  milk  or  cream. 

Beignet.    Fritter. 

Beurre  noir.    Black  butter. 

BitcuU    Glad.     Small   cakes    of    ice 


Bisque.  A  soup  actually  made  froBft 
shellfish;  or  an  ice  cream  to  which  ia 
added  finely  chopped  ruts. 

Blanch  (tc).    To  whiten. 

Blanquette  White  meat  in  cream 
sauce. 

BcBuf  braisS.    Braised  beef. 

Bmuf  h,  la  jardiniere.  Braised  beel 
with  vegetables. 

Bombe  gtacee.  Moulded  ice  cream  and 
ice,  or  two  kinds  of  ice  cream.  Outside 
of  one  kind,  filling  of  another. 

Bouch&cs  Litei-ally,  mouthful.  Small 
patties. 

Bouquet  of  herbs.  A  sprig  each  of 
thyme,  savory,  marjoram,  and  parsley. 

Bourgeoise  (a la).     In  family  style. 

Bretonne  sauce.  A  stock  sauce  in 
which  chopped  parsley  is  served. 

CafS  nolr.    Black  coffee. 

Cervelles  de  veau.    Calf's  brains. 

Chartreuse.  A  mould  of  aspic  in 
which  there  are  vegetables ;  a  meat  prep- 
aration iilling  the  centre  of  the  mould. 
Used  to  denote  anything  concealed. 

Chateaubrumd.  A  cut  from  the  cen- 
tre of  a  fillet  of  beef. 

Chaud-froid.  Literally,  hot  cold.  In 
cookery  a  jellied  sauce. 

Chou-fieur.    Cauliflower. 

Chutney.    An  East  India  sweet  pickle. 

Civet.    A  game  stew. 

Compotes.  Fruits  stewed  in  syrup  and 
kept  in  original  shape. 

Consomme  de  volaille.    Chicken  soup. 

Cotelettes.    Cutlets. 

Court  bouillon.  A  highly  seasoned 
liquor  in  which  to  cook  fish. 

CrSole  (h,la).    With  tomatoes. 

Croute  au  pot.  A  brown  soup  poured 
over  small  pieces  of  toast. 

Curry  powder.  A  yellow  powder  of 
which  the  principal  fingredient  is  tur- 
meric.   Used  largely  in  India. 

De,d\    Of. 

Devilled.    Highly  seasoned. 

Dinde  farcie.    Stuffed  turksy. 


606 


BOSTON  COOKING- SCHOOIi  COOK  BOOK 


IHnde  sauce  cSleri.  Turkey  with  celery 
sauce. 

^cossaise  {h  P).    In  Scottish  style. 
En  bellevue.    In  Aspic  jelly.     Applied 
to  meats. 
En  coquilles.    In  shells. 
En  papillotes.    In  papers. 
Eperlans  frits.    Fried  smelts. 
Espagnole  sauce.    A  rich  brown  sauce. 

Farci-e.    Stuffed. 

FUlet  de  bceuf  piquS.  Larded  fillet  of 
beef. 

Flammandc  (i  la).    In  Holland  style, 

Foie  de  veau  grille.     Broiled  liver. 

Fondue.  A  dish  prepared  of  cheese 
and  eggs. 

Fraises.    Strawberries. 

FrappL    Semi-frozen. 

Fricassee  de  poulei.  Fricassee  of 
chicken. 

Froviage.    Cheese. 

Gateau.    Cake. 

GeUe.    Jelly. 

Oenevoise  (h  la).    In  Swiss  style. 

Glace.    Iced  or  glossed  over. 

Grilled.    Broiled. 

Hachis  de  hoeuf.    Beef  hash. 

Hoe  cakes.  Cakes  made  of  white  com 
meal,  salt,  and  boiling  water ,  cooked  on 
a  griddle. 

Homard.    Lobster. 

Hors-d^oeuvres.     Side  dishes. 

HuUres  en  coquille.    Oysters  in  shell. 

Huitres  /rites.    Fried  oysters. 

Itatienne  {h  V).    In  Italian  style. 

Jambonfroid.    Cold  ham. 
Jardiniere.    Mixed  vegetables. 

Kirschwassett  Liqueur  made  from 
cherry  juice. 

Kuchen.    German  for  cake. 

Kummel.  Liqueur  flavored  with  cumin 
and  caraway  seed. 

LaU.    Milk. 
Laitue.    Lettuce. 

Langue  de  bceuf  h  Vicariate.  Pickled 
tongue. 

Macaroni  au  fromage.    Macaroni  with 


MacSdoine.    A  mixture  of  several  kinds 
si.TegetaMeR. 


Maigre.  A  vegetable  soup  without 
stock. 

Maiire  d^ hotel.    Head  steward. 

Mango.  A  fruit  of  the  "West  Indies, 
Florida,  and  Mexico. 

Mango  pickles.  Stuffed  and  pickled 
young  melons  and  cucumbers. 

Maraschino.     A  cordial. 

Marrons.     Chestnuts. 

Menu.    A  bill  of  fare. 

Moru.     Salt  cod. 

Noel.     Christmas. 
Noir.    Blacl^. 
NouUles.    Noodles. 
Noyau.    A  cordial. 

(Eufsfarcis.     Stuffed  eggs. 

CEufs  poches.    Poached  eggs. 

Omelette  aux  fines  herbes.  Omelet  with 
fine  herbs. 

Omelette  aux  champignons.  Omelet 
with  mushrooms. 

Pain.     Bread. 

Panade.  Bread  and  milk  cooked  to  a 
paste. 

Pate  de  biftecks.     Beefsteak  pie. 

Pate  de  fois  gras.  A  paste  made  of 
fatted  geese  livers. 

Pigeonneaux.    Squabs. 

Pois.    Peas. 

Pommes.    Apples. 

Pomm^s  de  terre.    Potatoes. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Pone  cakes.  A  cake  made  in  the  South, 
baked  in  the  oven. 

Potage.     Soup 

Poulets  sautes.    Fried  chicken. 

Queues  deboeuf.    Ox-tails. 

RagotLt.-   A  highly  seasoned  meat  dish. 
R^chauffis.     Warmed  over  dishes. 
Removes.      The    roasts    or    principal 
dishes. 
Ris  de  veau.    Sweetbreads. 

Salade  de  laitue.    Lettuce  salad. 
Salade  de  legumes.     Vegetable  salad. 
Salpicon.      Highly    seasoned     minced 
meat  mixed  with  a  thick  sauce. 
Selle  de  venaison.    Saddle  of  venison. 
Sippets.     English  for  croQtons. 
SoufflL    Literally,  puffed  up. 
Soup  ft  Vognon.    Onion  soup. 
Sucres.    Sweets. 

Twrte  aux  pommes.    Apple  pie. 

Tourte.    A  tart. 

Trout  saumonSe.    Salmon  trout« 


MISS    FARMER'S 

SCHOOL    OF    COOKERY 

Huntington  Chambers 
30  Huntington  Avenue,  Boston,  Mass. 

ANNOUNCEMENT  OF  COURSES 

The  aim  of  this  School  is  to  afford  such  instruction  as  will 
elevate  cookery  to  its  proper  place  as  a  science  and  an  art. 
The  courses  are  so  arranged,  combining  the  practical  and 
the  theoretical,  that  the  knowledge  gained  may  be  applied 
to  daily  living.  The  needs  of  the  body  are  not  forgotten. 
The  classification,  composition,  and  nutritive  value  of  foods 
are  considered.  The  correct  proportion  of  each  of  the  food- 
principles  necessary  for  a  day's  ration,  for  those  of  different 
age,  sex,  and  occupation,  is  emphasized,  thus  enabling  the 
pupil  to  arrange  well-balanced  dietaries.  Attention  is  paid 
to  the  selection  of  supplies  with  reference  to  economy  and 
utility,  thus  tending  to  develop  an  interest  in  marketing  and 
accounts 

CLASS  LESSONS   IN  COOKERY 
FIRST  COURSE 

One  lesson  weekly,  for  ten  consecutive  weeks,  from  9  a.  m. 
to  12.30  p.  M.  Eight  pupils  constitute  a  class.  Terms: 
$16,50,  payable   on   first  lesson.     Class   served   at   close  of 


608 


BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


lesson  to  food  prepared.  Previous  to  each  lesson  a  talk  will 
be  given  on  food-principles,  food-products  and  their  dietetia 
value,  illustrated  by  charts  and  blackboard  drawings. 


First  Lesson 

How  to  Use  a  Gas  Kange 
Breakfast  Cereal 
Baked  Apples 
Creamed  Chicken 
Boiled  Potatoes 
Potato  Border 
Dry  Toast 
Milk  Toast 
Boiled  Coffee 


Second  Lesson 

Making  and  Care  of  Fire 
How  to  Use  a  Coal  Range 
Corn  Soup  with  Popped  Com 
Corned  Beef  Plash 
Boiled  Eggs 
Dropped  Eggs 
Pineapple  Pudding 
Custard  Sauce 
Filtered  Coffee 


Third  Lesson 

Mixing  and  Baking  Water  Bread 

Tomato  Soup  without  Stock 

Crisp  Crackers 

Boiled  Fish 

Egg  Sauce 

Steamed  Potatoes 

Baked  Custard 

Caramel  Custard 

Caramel  Sauce 

Chocolate 


Fourth  Lesson 

Mixing  and  Baking  Milk  and 

Water  Bread 
Celery  Soup 

Pan-Broiled  Lamb  Chops 
Potatoes  au  Gratin 
Turkish  Pilaf 
Newton  Tapioca  Pudding 
Apples  in  Bloom 
Peanut  Cookies 


Fifth  Lesson 

Mixing  and  Baking  Entire  Wheat 

Bread 
Appledore  Soup 
CroCitons 
Hamburg  Steak 
Maitre  d'Hotel  Potatoes 
Baked  Macaroni 
Scalloped  Oysters 
St.  James  Pudding 
Hard  Sauce 


Sixth  Lesson 

Fish  Chowder 

Broiled  Oysters 

Cole  Slaw 

Breakfast  Bacon 

Omelet 

Golden  Corn  Cake 

Norwegian  Prune  Pudding 

Ginger  Snaps 


Seventh  Lesson 

Mixing  and  Baking  Graham  Bread 
Making  and  Clearing  Brown  Soup 

Stock 
Boast  Beef 


Eighth  Lesson 

Vegetable  Soup 
Boston  Brown  Bread 
Fish  Balls 
JriedFiah 


SCHOOL   OF  COOKERY 


609 


Yorkshire  Pudding 
Franconia  Potatoes 
Spinach 
Cheese  Salad 
Frozen  Chocolate 
Whipped  Cream 


Ninth  Lesson 


Scotch  Broth 
Broiled  Scrod 
Potato  Balls 
Egg  Salad 
Boiled  Dressing 
Graham  Muffins 
Cheese  Straws 
Lemon  Tartlets 
Apple  Puffs 


Shredded  Potatoes 

Tomato  and  Horseradish  Salad 

Custard  Souffle 

Creamy  Sauce 

Gingerbread 

Tenth  Lesson 

Chicken  Fricassee 
Rice  Croquettes 
Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 
Baking-Powder  Biscuit 
Apple  Fritters 
Orange  Ice 
Lily  Cake 
White  Mountain  Cream 


SECOND   COURSE 
Terms :  $18.00 


First  Lesson 

Sliced  Oranges 

Cereal  with  Dates 

Scrambled  Eggs  (country  style) 

Pan-Broiled  Ham 

Creamed  Codfish  with  Cheese 

Baked  Potatoes 

Popovers 

Entire  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes  with 

Maple  Syrup 
Boiled  Coffee 

Third  Lesson 

St,  Germain  Soup 

Bread  Sticks 

Baked  Fish  with   Hollandaise 

Sauce 
Lattice  Potatoes 
Cabbage  and  Celery  Salad 
Cream  Dressing 
Steamed  Fig  Pudding 
Yellow  Saao« 


Second  Lesson 

Oyster  Soup 
Fricassee  of  Lamb 
French  Fried  Potatoes 
Corn  a  la  Southern 
Parker  House  Rolls 
Potato  Salad 
Apricot  Shortcake 
Cold  Cabinet  Pudding 


Fourth  Lesson 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

Broiled  Porterhouse  Steak  witlf- 

Bernaise  Sauce 
Lyonnaise  Potatoes 
Quaker  Biscuit 
Oysters  and  Macaroni 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream 
Chocolate  Sauce 
Boiled  Wafers 


610 


BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Fifth  Lesson 

Roast  Chicken 

Potatoes  Baked  in  Half  Shells 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Fish  Croquettes 

Charlotte  Russe 

Lady  Fingers  ^ 

Cafe  Noir 


Sixth  Lesson 

White  Soup 
Chicken  Croquettes 
Creamed  Peas 
Banana  Fritters 
Lobster  Salad 
Mayonnaise  Dressing 
Croustades  of  Savory  Oysters 
Macedoine  Pudding 
Gossamer  Gingerbread 


Seventh  Lesson 

Bouillon 
Fried  Smelts 
Sauce  Tartare 
Luncheon  Rolls 
Chicken  Salad 
Milk  Sherbet 
Walnut  Cake 
Confectioners'  Frosting 
Chocolate 
Whipped  Cream 

Ninth  Lesson 

Clam  Soup 
Larded  Fillet  of  Beef 
Mushroom  Sauce 
Potatoes  en  Surprise 
Devilled  Tomatoes 
Twin  Mountain  MuflSns 
Squash  Pie 
Orange  Sticks 


Eighth  Lesson 

Stuffed  Leg  of  Lamb 

Currant  Jelly 

Sauce 

Anna  Potatoes 

Lima  Beans 

Cheese  Souffle 

Raised  Hominy  Muffins 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

Coffee  Souffle' 

Salted  Almonds 

Te7ith  Lesson 

Fried  Scallops 
Maryland  Chicken 
Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 
Rice  Timbales 
Corn  Fritters 
Fruit  Salad 
Macaroon  Ice  Cream 
Sponge  Cake 


THIRD   COURSE 


Terms:  $21.00 


First  Lesson 

Cream  of  Mushroom  Soup 
Fried  Oysters 
Philadelphia  Relish 
Beef  Tenderloins 


Second  Lessor: 

Royal  Sonp 
Smelts  k  la  Meniere 
Crown  of  Lamb 
Currant  Mint  Sauce 
iSrabant  Pot&toos 


aCHOOL  OF  COOKERY 


611 


Creamed  Brussels  Sprouts 
Dinner  Rolls 
Pomona  Frappe 
Ginger  Cream 

Third  Lesson 

Tomato  Bouillon  with  Oystera 
Moulded  Salmon 
Cucumber  Sauce 
Larded  Grouse 
Bread  Sauce 
Farina  Cakes  with  Jelly 
Orange  Mint  Salad 
Flowering  Ice  Cream 
Sunshine  Cake 


Swedish  Bolls 

Cheese  and  Currant  Salad 

Cup  St.  Jacques 


Fourth.  Lesson 

Cream  of  Scallop  Soup 
Fillets  of  Chicken  Halibut 
Horseradish  Sauce 
Potato  Nests 
Maryland  Croquettes 
Wine  Jelly 
Orange  Delicious 
Coffee 


Fifth  Lesson 

Puff  Paste 

Oyster  Patties 

Chicken   and   Mushroom    Vol-au- 

Vent 
Cigarettes  a  la  Prince  Henry 
Zwieback 
Sorbet 


Sixth  Lesson 

Consommd 
Harlequin  Slices 
Baked  Live  Lobster 
Devilled  Sauce 
Braised  Ox  Joints 
French  Fried  Onions 
French  Rolls 
Salad  Chififonade 
Almond  Tart 


Seventh  Lesson 

Lobster  Soup 

Bread  Sticks 

Chicken  k  la  Stanley 

Sweet  Potatoes  (Georgian  style) 

Sweetbread  Timbales 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Chocolate  Souffle 

Whipped  Cream 

Ninth  Lesson 

Tapioca  Wine  Soup 
Venison  Steak  with  Chestnuts 
Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 
Grape  Fruit  and  Pepper  Salad 
Cheese  Croquettes 
Orange  Pekoe  Ice  Cream 
Creole  Kisseg 


Eighth  Lesson 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Calf's  Liver  Stuffed  and  Larded 

Cauliflower  a  la  Huntington 

Lettuce  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Cheese  Balls 

Frozen  Pudding 

Angel  Cake 

Tenth  Lesson 

Asparagus  Soup 
Planked  Haddock 
Stuffed  Clams 
Lamb  Chops  a  la  Marseilles 
Hongroise  Potatoes 
Creamed  Mushrooms 
Caf^  Parfait 
Salted  Pecans 


612 


BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


COURSE  IN   CHAFING-DISH  COOKERY, 
SALADS   AND   DESSERTS 

One  lesson  weekly  for  ten  consecutive  weeks,  from  2  to 
6  P.M.     Terms:  $18.00 


First  Lesson 

Scrambled  Eggs  (Creole  style) 

Chicken  a  la  McDonald 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 

Tomato  Ciboulettes 

Salad  Rolls 

Quick  Bavarian  Cream 

Coffee 


Second  Lesson 

Salt  Codfish  with  Cream 

Mignon  Fillets  of  Beef  with  Cherrj 

Sauce 
Mushrooms  k  la  Sabine 
Waldorf  Salad 
Baking-Powder  Biscuit 
Brown  Bread  and   Cucumber  Sand 

wiches 
Junket  Ice  Cream  with  Peaches 


Third  Lesson 

Oysters  a  la  Duxelle 
Salmi  of  Duck 
Macaroni  a  la  Rarebit 
Devilled  Almonds 
Rye  Bread  Sandwiches 
Sultana  Roll 
Claret  Sauce 

Fifth  Lesson 

Finnan  Haddie  a  la  Delmonico 

Sauted  Sweetbreads 

Asparagus  Tips 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Lettuce  and  Radish  Salad 

Brioche 

Fudge 

Mazarine 


Fourth  Lesson 

Fish  a  la  Proven  9  ale 

Sauted  Chickens'  Livers 

English  Monkey 

Sweetbread  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Quick  Rolls 

Meringues  Panache 

Sixth  Lesson 

Shrimp  Wiggle 
Breast  of  Grouse 
Saute  Chasseur 
Grilled  Sweet  Potatoes 
Welsh  Rarebit 
Cheese  and  Olive  Salad 
Date  Bread 
Baked  Alaska 


Seventh  Lesson    ^ 

Lobster  and  Oyster  RagoUt 

Shad  Roe  with  Celery 

Curried  Vegetables 

Dressed  Lettuce 

Crackers  and  Cheese  with  Bar-le- 

Duc  Currants 
Orange  Trifle 


Eighth  Lesson 

Union  Grill 
Devilled  Crabs 
Venison  Steak 
Cumberland  Sauce 
Monte  Carlo  Salad 
Club  Sandwiches 
Salted  Nuts 
Cafe  Frappe 
Whipped  Cream 


SCHOOL   OF  COOKERY 


613 


Ninth  Lesson 

Lamb  Chops 
Orange  Mint  Sauce 
Sauted  Bananas 
Croustades  of  Peas 
Lettuce  and  Cucumber  Salad 
French  Rusks 
Fig  Cups 
Hollandaise  Punch 


Tenth  Lesson 

Spanish  Omelet 

Kippered  Herring 

Chickens'  Livers  en  Brochette 

Hot  Potato  Salad 

Entire  Wheat  Rolls 

Sultana  Caramels 

Frozen  Apricots 


§ 


TABLE   SERVICE   COURSE 


One  lesson  weekly  for  ten  consecutive  weeks,  from  2  to 
4.30  p.m.  Eight  pupils  constitute  a  class.  Terms:  $15.00, 
payable  on  fourth  lesson.  Arranged  to  meet  the  needs  of 
the  young  housekeeper  as  well  as  the  waitress. 


First  Lesson 

Care  of  Dining  Room 
Directions  for  Sweeping  and 

Dusting 
Arrangement  of  Furniture 
Polishing  Dining  Table 
Care  of  Hard  Wood  Floors 

Cutting  of  Bread 

Toast 

Butter  Balls 

Boiled  Coffee 


Second  Lesson 

Pantry  and  Ice  Box 

Arrangement 

Care  of 
Dishes 

Washing  and  Wiping 
Care  of  Sink,  Dish  Cloths,  Dish 

Wipers,  and  Silver  Towels 
Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Rolled  Bread 
Boiled  and  Dropped  Eggs 
Breakfast  Cocoa 


Third  Lesson 

Laying  Breakfast  Table 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Care  of  Silver 
Lettuce  Sandwiches 
Nut  and  Cheese  Sandwiches 
Filtered  Coffee 


Fourth  Lesson 

Laying  Breakfast  Table 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Illustrate  Serving  of  Breakfast 

Clearing  of  Table 
Care  of  China  and  Glass 
Anchovy  Sandwiches 
Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 
Russian  Tea 
Iced  Tea 


614 


BOSTON  COOKING- SCHOOL   COOK  BOOK 


Fifth  Lesson     * 

Laying  Luncheon  Table  (without 
cloth) 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Care  of  Cutlery  and  Brass 
Noisette  Sandwiches 
Russian  Sandwiches 
Reception  Cocoa 
Brandy  Cocoa 


Sixth  Lesson 

Laying  Luncheon  Table  (with 
cloth) 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Illustrate  Serving  of  Luncheon 

Clearing  of  Table 
Care  of  Lamps 
Chicken  Sandwiches 
Windsor  Sandwiches 
Chocolate  I,  II 


Seventh  Lesson 

Laying  Dinner  Table 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Care  and  Laundering  of  Table 

Linen 
French  Dressing 
Dressed  Lettuce 
Egg  Salad  I 
Hindoo  Salad 
Lenten  Salad 
Lemonade 
Fruit  Punch 


Eighth  Lesson. 

Laying  Dinner  Table 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Illustrate  Serving  of  Dinner 

Clearing  of  Table 
Carving 

Cream  Dressing 
Egg  Salad  II 
Nut  and  Celery  Salad 
Russian  Salad 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  I,  II 
Cafe  Noir 


Ninth  Lesson 

Laying  Table  for  Formal  Dinner 

Sideboard 

Serving  Table 
Illustrate  Serving  of  Dinner 

Clearing  of  Table 
Mayonnaise  Dressing 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  III 
Malaga  Salad 
Brazilian  Salad 
Cucumber  Cups  with  Lettuce 
Stuffed  Peppers 
Sauterne  Cup 
Claret  Cup 


Tenth  Lesson 

Laying  Table  for  Reception 
Cream  Mayonnaise  Dressing 
Lobster  and  Celery  Salad 
Chicken  Salad 

Sweetbread  Salad  ' 

Moulded  Salmon,  Cucumber 

Sauce 
Serving    Table   "Waters    and    Alco* 

holic  Beverages 


SCHOOL  OF   COOKERY 


615 


COUESE   IN   INVALID   COOKERY 

Arranged  for  Nurses'  Training  Classes.  The  specialty  of 
the  School.  One  lesson  weekly  for  ten  consecutive  weeks, 
by  appointment.  Eight  pupils  constitute  a  class.  Terms : 
$65.00,  or  ^50.00  and  travelling  expenses  if  given  at 
hospital. 

First  Lesson  Second  Lesson 


Chemical  Composition  of  Body 
Food,  Illustrate  and  Define 

Why  Necessary 
Cookery,  Define 

Why  Necessary 
Water  Supply 
Sandwiches 
Cold  Beverages 

Third  Lesson 

Food,     Correct    Proportions    for 

Well-balanced  Dietaries 
Starch,  Composition 

Sources 

Food  Value 

How  Affected  by  Cooking 
Cereals 
Fruits 

Fifth  Lesson 

Proteids 

Composition 

Sources 

Food  Value 

How  Affected  by  Cooking 
Eggs 

Egg  Desserts 
Wafers 

Seventh  Lesson 

Fish  Classification 

Food  Value 

Digestibility 
Broiled  and  Boiled  Fish 
Oysters 
Clams 
Potatoes 


Foods,  Classification 

Relation  each  Class  Bears  to  the 
Body 
Milk  Supply 
Dry  Toast 
Buttered  Toast 
Hot  Beverages 


Fourth  Lesson 

Starch  (continued) 

Combustion 

How  to  use  a  Gas  Range 
Making  and  Care  of  Fire 

Milk  Toast 
Cream  Soups 
Vegetables 

Sixth  Lesson 

Fermentation 
Bread  Making  and  Baking 
Proteids  (continued) 
Beef  Extracts 

Teas 

BaUs 
Broths 
Stews 

Eighth  Lesson 

Gelatin 

Souices 

Food  Value 

How  Affected  by  Cooking 
Beefsteak 
Lamb  Chops 
Macaroni 
Jellies 


616  BOSTON  COOKIKG-SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK 


Ninth  Lesson 

Tenth  Lesson 

Fats  and  Oils 

Alcohol 

Chemistry  of  Freezing 

Uses 

Boning  Birds 

Food  Value 

Salads 

Chicken 

Sherbets 

Sweetbreads 

Sponge  Cake 

Ice  Creams 

Lady  Fingers 

MARKETING   COURSE 

One  lesson  weekly,  for  five  consecutive  weeks,  from  2  to 
4.30  P.M.  Four  to  six  constitute  a  class.  Terms:  $6.00. 
Instruction  given  by  charts,  cuts,  and  visits  to  market. 


SPECIAL   LESSONS 
Given  by  appointment.    Terms  :  $2.50.    Materials  extra. 

DEMONSTRATION   LECTURES 

Wednesdays  at  10  a.  m.  and  7.45  p.  m.  Extending  from 
the  first  Wednesday  in  November  until  the  middle  of 
April. 

Tickets   for  Morning  Course,   ten   lectures,  with 

reserved  seat $6.00 

Single  admission .65 

Tickets  for   Evening   Course,   ten   lectures,    with 

reserved  seat 4.00 

Single  admission •  .35 


Other  classes  listed  in  bulletin  which  will  be  sent  on  request. 


INDEX 


Acid,  Acetic,  12. 

Butyric,  8. 

C4tric,  13. 

Malic,  12. 

Oleic,  8. 

Oxalic,  13. 

Palmitic,  8. 

Pectic,  7. 

Pectose,  7. 

Stearic,  8. 

Tannic,  13. 

Tartaric,  12. 
Acidulated  Water,  587. 
Aerated  Bread,  53. 
After-Dlnner  Coffee,  Black,  or  Caf6 

Noir,  38. 
Air,  17. 

Albumen,  2,  191. 
Algonquin  Canapes,  555. 
Allemande  Sauce,  266. 
Allspice,  14, 
Almond  Cakes,  511. 

Cookies,  490. 

Macaroons,  533. 

Omelet,  108. 

Soup,  125. 

Tart,  504. 

Tartlets,  478. 
Almonds,  Devilled,  565. 

how  to  Blanch,  587. 

how  to  Shred,  587. 

Mock,  146. 

Salted,  I,  535. 

Salted,  II,  536. 
Amber  Pudding,  422. 
Anchovies,  27. 
Anchovy  Butter,  273. 

Canap6s,  554. 

Sandwiches,  550. 

Sauce,  274. 
Angel  Cake,  503. 

Food,  450. 

Parfait,  451. 
Apple  Fritters  I,  349. 

Fritters  II.  349. 

Fritters  III,  349. 

Ginger,  570. 

Jelly,  573. 

Meringue,  413. 

Pie  I,  467. 

Pie  II,  467. 

Porcupine,  570. 

Pudding,  Steamed,  398. 

Sauce,  570. 


Apple  Sauce,  Spiced,  570. 

Snow,  413. 

Tapioca,  391. 
Apples,  Baked,  569. 

Baked,  Sweet,  569. 

in  Bloom,  416. 

Porter,  Canned,  578. 

Scalloped,  392. 
Appledore  Soup,  138. 
Apricot  and  Wine  Jelly,  421. 

Sorbet,  438. 

Souffle,  396. 
Apricots,  Frozen,  440. 
Arrowroot,  6. 

Bermuda,  6. 
Artichoke  Bottoms,  284. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  136.    ' 
Artichokes,  283. 

Boiled,  283. 

Fried,  283. 

Stuffed,  284. 
Asparagus,  284. 

a  la  Hollandaise,  285. 

Boiled,  284. 

in  Crusts,  285. 

in  White  Sauce,  284. 

on  Toast,  284. 

Salad,  329. 

Soup,  123. 
Aspic,  Birds  in,  383. 

Individual  Chicken  Salads  in, 
345. 

Jelly,  382. 

Stuffed  Olives  in,  383. 

Stuffing  for  Chicken  in,  384. 

Tomatoes  in,  382. 

Tongue  in,  383. 
Aurora  Sauce,  169. 


Baba  Cakes,  388. 

with  Apricots,  889. 
Bacon  I,  208. 

II,  208. 

and  Liver,  207. 

Breakfast,  236. 

Chicken  Livers  with,  253. 

Oysters  with,  184. 

Sweetbreads  and,  234. 
Baked  Alaska,  448. 

Apples,  569. 

Apples,  Sweet,  569. 

Bananas  I,  571. 

Bananas  II,  571. 


618 


INDEX 


Baked  Peaches,  571. 

Pears,  571. 

Potatoes,  310. 

Potatoes  in  Half  Shell,  312, 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  317. 

Quinces,  571. 
Baking,  20. 
Baking  Powder,  52. 

Biscuit  I,  70. 

Biscuit  II,  71. 
Banana  Cake,  516. 

Cantaloupe,  427. 

Croquettes,  354. 

Custard,  413. 

Fritters  I,  349. 

Fritters  II,  350. 

Ice  Cream,  447. 

Salad,  338. 
Bananas,  Baked,  I,  571. 

Baked,  II.  571. 

Sauted,  571. 
Banbury  Tarts,  475. 
Bangor  Pudding,  394. 
Barbecued  Ham,  237. 
Barberry  Jelly,  574. 
Baskets,  Cucumber,  328. 

Fruit,  479. 

Neapolitan,  416. 

Orange,  429. 
Bass,  Baked  Fillets  of,  169. 
Batter  I,  348. 

II,  348. 

III,  348. 

IV,  348. 

V,  349. 
Eggs  in,  101. 

Batters  and  Fritters,  348. 
Bavarian  Cream,  Pineapple,  430. 

Quick,  430. 

Strawberry,  430. 
Bean  Soup,  Baked,  135. 

Black,  135. 

Cream  of  Lima,  136. 

String,  126. 
Beans,  285. 

Boston  Baked,  238. 

Fritter,  148. 

Lima,  Cream  of,  285. 

Shell,  285. 

String,  285. 
B^arnaise  Sauce,  98. 
Bechamel  Sauce,  271. 

Yellow,  271. 
Beef,  191-193. 

a  la  Mode,  204. 

and  Rice  Croquettes,  359. 

Braised,  204. 

Cannelon  of,  201. 

Chateaubriand   of,    200. 

Corned,  206. 

Corned,  Hash,  213. 

Corned,     Hash     with     Beets, 
213. 

Corned,  How  to  Boil,  206. 

Cottage  Pie,  212. 

Cutlets     of     Tenderloin     with 
Chestnut  Pur6e,  199. 


Beef,  Divisions  and  Way  of  Cook- 
ing Side  of,  193. 

Dried  with  Cream,  213. 

Fillet,  Larded,  203. 

Fillets,  Broiled,  198. 

Fillets,  Cherry  Sauce,  199. 

Fillets  of,  a  la  Moelle,  199. 

Fillets,  with  Stuffed  Mushroom 
Caps,  200. 

Fillet  with  Vegetables,  203. 

Flank,  Pressed,  205. 

Hamburg  Steaks,  200. 

Meat  Cakes,  Broiled,  200. 

Mignon  Fillets  of.  Sauted  with 
Sauce  Trianon,  199. 

Other  Parts  of  Creature  used 
for  Food,  194. 

Porterhouse    Steak   with   Bor- 
delaise  Sauce,  196. 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Mush- 
room Sauce,  196. 

Porterhouse  Steak  with  Tomato 
and  Mushroom  Sauce,  196. 

Rbast,  201. 

Roast,  Gravy,  202. 

Roast,  how  to  Carve,  202. 

Roast,  Mexican  Sauce,  212. 

Roast,  Yorkshire  Pudding,  202. 

Stew  with  Dumplings,  205. 

Ways  of  Warming  over,  212. 
Beefsteak  a  la  Chiron,  197. 

a  la  Henriette.  197. 

a  la  Mirabeau,  197. 

a  la  Victor  Hugo,  197. 

Broiled,  195. 

Pie,  212. 

Planked,  198. 

to  Broil,  196. 

with    Maltre    d'Hotel    Butter, 
196. 

with  Oyster  Blanket,  198. 
Beet  Greens,   Boiled,  294. 
Beet  Relish,  583. 
Beets,  Boiled,  286. 

Corned  Beef  Hash  with,  213. 

Harvard,  286. 

Pickled,  286. 

Sour  Sauce,  286. 

Sugared,  286. 
Belgian  Hare  a  la  Maryland,  260. 

Sour  Cream  Sauce,  260. 
Bercy  Sauce,  172. 
Berkshire  Muffins,  75. 

Salad  in  Boxes,  345. 
Berry  Muffins,  I,  72. 

Muffins  II,  72. 
Beverages,  32-41.    Use  of,  32. 

Fruit,  42-45. 
Birds  in  Aspic,  383. 

on  Canapes,  375. 

to  Bone,  24. 

to  Dress  for  Broiling,  244. 
Birthday  Cake,  514. 
Biscuit,  70. 

Baking  Powder,  I,  70. 

Baking  Powder,  II,  71. 

Emergency,  71. 


INDEX 


619 


Biscuit,  Maryland,  77. 

Pin  Wheel,  71. 

Rye,  56. 

Squash,  67. 
Biscuit  Tortoni  in  Boxes,  458. 
Bisque,  Burnt  Walnut,  446. 

Clam  and  Tomato,  132. 

Ice  Cream,  446. 

Lobster,  133. 

Mock,  140. 

Oyster,  133. 
Bisques,  110. 
Blackberry  Jam,  575. 

Jelly,  574. 

Pie,  467. 
Blanc-Mange,  Chocolate,  411. 

Irish  Moss,  411. 
Blueberry  Pie,  468. 

Pudding,  Steamed,  399. 
Bluefish,  153. 

a  ritalienne,  165. 

Baked,  165. 

Breslin,  Baked,  165. 
Boiled  Dinner,  206. 

Dressing  I,  324. 

Dressing  II,  325. 

Frosting,  529. 
Bolivia  Salad,  330. 
Bombe  Glacee,  452. 
Bonbons,  545. 

to  Dip,  546. 
Boning,  24. 
Bordelaise  Sauce,  196. 
Bortchock  Consomm6,  129. 

Soup,  116. 
Boston  Baked  Beans,  238. 

Brown  Bread,  57. 

Cookies,  489. 

Favorite  Cake,  508. 
Bouch^es,  379. 
Bouillon,  109,  114. 

Clam,  129. 

Iced,  114. 

Tomato,  with  Oysters,  114. 
Braising,  22. 
Brandied  Peaches,  581. 
Brandy  Sauce,  409. 
Brandy  Wafers,  494. 
Brazilian  Salad,  340. 
Bread,  46. 

Aerated,  53. 

and  Butter  Folds,  549. 

and  Butter  Pudding,  393. 
>         and  Butter  Pudding  (Apple), 
393. 

Baking,  Care  of,  after,  52. 

Baking  of,  51. 

Boards,    590. 

Boston  Brown,   57. 

Date,  57. 

Dough,  how  to  Shape,  50. 

Efntire  Wheat,  55. 

Entire  Wheat  and  Flour,  55. 

Fermented,  50. 

for  Garnishing,  69. 

German  Caraway,  55. 

German  CofiEee,  62. 


Bread,  Graiam,  56. 

Graham,  Steamed,  58. 

Griddle  Cakes,  79. 

Indian,  58. 

Making  of,  50. 

Milk  and  Water,  54. 

New  England  Brown,  58. 

Omelet,  106. 

Pudding,  392. 

Pulled,  146. 

Rolled,  549. 

Rolled  Oats,  56. 

Rye,  57. 

Salad  Sticks,  60. 

Sauce,  276. 

Stale,  Uses  for,  69. 

Sticks,  59. 

Swedish,  63. 

Swedish  Tea  Braid,  64. 

Swedish  Tea  Ring,  I,  64. 

Swedish  Tea  Ring,  II,  64. 

Third,  56. 

Unfermented,  52. 

Water,  54. 
Breaded     Tongue     with     Tomato 

Sauce,  563. 
Breakfast  Cakes,  70. 

Menus,  592-594. 

Puffs,  77. 
Breast  of  Quail,  Lucullus,  376. 
Brewis,  69. 
Bride's  Cake,  517. 
Brioche  (Coffee  Cakes),  62. 
Broiling,  19. 
Broom,  Care  of,  589. 
Broth,  Scotch,  221. 
Brown  Bread  Ice  Cream,  446. 

Bread  Milk  Toast,  68. 

Bread  Sandwiches,  552. 

Frosting,  529. 

Sauce  I,  267. 

Sauce  II  (Espagnole),  268. 

Sauce,  Mushroom,  I,  268. 

Sauce,  Mushroom,  II,  268,  363, 
374. 
Brownies,  495,  511. 
Brussels  Sprouts,  286. 

Sprouts  in  White  Sauce,  287. 

Sprouts,  Scalloped,  287. 
Buckwheat  Cakes,  79. 
Bunuelos,  362. 
Buns,  65. 

Hot  Cross,  65. 
Burns,  Remedy  for,  591. 
Burnt  Almond  Charlotte,  428. 

Almond  Ice  Cream,  445. 

Walnut  Bisque  Ice  Cream,  446. 
Butter,  10. 

Anchovy,  273. 

Clarified,  499. 

Cocoanut,  8. 

Composition  of,  10. 

Cups,  538.  , 

Drawn,  Sauce,  267. 

Green,  383. 

Lemon,  181. 

Lobster,  273. 


620 


INDEX 


Butter,  Maltre  d'HStel,  273. 

Rules  for  Washing,   461. 

Scotch,  539. 

Taflfy,  539. 

to  Cream,  586. 
Butterine,  8,  11. 

Cabbage,  287. 

Boiled,  287. 

Cole-Slaw,  288. 

Escalloped,  287. 

German,  288. 

Hot  Slaw,  288. 
Cabinet  Pudding,  424. 
Caf6  au  Lait,  38. 
Cafe  Prapp6,  439. 

Noir,  38. 

Parfait,  451. 
Caffeine,  35. 
Cake,  497-523. 

Angel,  503. 

Baking  of,  499. 

Banana,  516. 

Birthday,  514. 

Boston  Favorite,  508. 

Bride's,  517. 

Butter,  to  Mix,  498. 

Chocolate,  I,  506. 

Chocolate,  II,  506. 

Chocolate  Fruit,  512. 

Chocolate  Marshmallow,  506. 

Chocolate  Nougat,  506. 

Chocolate  Sponge,  511. 

Chocolate  Vienna,  512. 

Citron,  509. 

Coffee,  Rich,  514. 

Corn-starch,  516. 

Cream,  509. 

Cup,  510. 

Currant,  509. 

Devil's  Food,  I,  511. 

Devil's  Food,  II,  512. 

Election,  505. 

Fig  Eclair,  516. 

Fillings  and  Frostings  for,  524- 
532 

Frosting  of,  500. 

Fruit,  Dark,  515. 

Fruit,  English,  521. 

Fruit,  Light,  517. 

Golden,  517. 

Golden  Spice,  513. 

Ice  Cream,  517. 

Imperial,  523. 

Jelly  Roll,  505. 

Lady  Fingers,  504. 

Lily,  515. 

Marshmallow,  516. 

Mocha,  503. 

Mocha,  Walnut,  513. 

Molasses  Pound,  520. 

Moonshine,  503. 

Newport  Pound,  520. 

Nut,  515. 

Nut,  Spice,  514. 

Nut,  White,  517. 

One  Bgg,  505. 


Cake,  Orange,  508. 

Pans,  to  Prepare,  499. 

Pans,  Removing  from,  500. 

Pound,  520. 

Prune  Almond,  516. 

Queen,  519. 

Quick,  508. 

Ribbon,  513. 

Snow,  515. 

Spanish,  510. 

Sponge,  502. 

Sponge,  Cheap,  501. 

Sponge,  Cream,  501. 

Sponge,  Hot  Water,  501. 

Sunshine,  502. 

Velvet,  509. 

Walnut,  510. 

Wedding,  I,  522. 

Wedding,  II,  522. 
Cakes,  Almond,  511. 

Almond  Tart,  504. 

Baba,  388. 

Baba,  with  Apricots,  389. 

Breakfast,  70. 

Brownies,  495,  511. 

Card,  496. 

Chocolate,  491. 

Chocolate  Dominoes,  507. 

Christmas,  520. 

Cinnamon,  510. 

Cinnamon  Bars,  534. 

Cocoanut  I,  535. 

Cocoanut  II,  535. 

Cocoanut  Tea,  477. 

Coffee  (Brioche),  62. 

Cream,  518. 

Cream,  French,  519. 

Cream,     French      Strawberry, 
519. 

Crescents,  534. 

Dipping  of,  531. 

Drop,  Fried,  81. 

Eclairs,  519. 

Ginger  Pound,  520. 

Glazing  of,  531. 

Griddle,  78. 

Horseshoes,  534. 

Lemon  Queens,  519. 

Macaroons,  533. 

Macaroons,  Almond,  533. 

Macaroons,  Nut,  495. 

Marguerites  I,  493. 

Marguerites  II,  493. 

Mocha,  518. 

Neuremburghs,   492. 

Nut,  515. 

Nut  Bars,  495. 

Petit  Four,  502. 

Royal  Fans,  489. 

Rum,  388. 

Rye  Drop,  81. 

Sponge  Drops,  504. 
Calf's  Brains,  to  Prepare,  557. 

Brains   with    Scrambled   Egga, 
557 

Brains  Fritters,  354. 

Head  ft  la  Terrapin,  210. 


DsTDEX 


621 


Calf's  Heart,  211. 

Liver,  Stuffed  and  Larded,  208. 
Calve  Tarts,  479. 
Calves'  Tongues,  210. 

Tongues,  Sauce  Piquante,  210. 
Canapes,  549. 

Algonquin,  555. 

Anchovy,  554. 
Cheese,  I,  553. 
Cheese,  II,  554. 
Cheese  and  Olive,  555. 

Fruit,  565. 

Lobster,  554. 

Lorenzo,  555. 

Martha,  554. 

Peach,  565. 

Sardine,  554. 
Candied  Orange  Peel,  547. 
Cane  Sugar  or  Sucrose,  6. 
Cannelon  of  Beef,  201. 
Canning  and  Preserving,  577. 

Directions  for,  577. 

Jars,  to  Sterilize,  578. 
Cantaloupe,  how  to  Serve,  569. 

Banana,  427. 
Canton  Sherbet,  437. 
Caper  Sauce,  267. 
Capers,  14. 
Capon,  240. 

Boiled,  vs^ith  Cauliflower  Sauce, 
246. 
Capsicum  (Cayenne  Pepper),  13. 
Carafes,  how  to  Wash,  587. 
Caramel,  7. 

Brandy  Sauce,  410. 

Charlotte  Russe,  428. 

Custard,  415. 

Frosting  I,  530. 

Frosting  II,  530. 

Ice  Cream,  445. 

Junket,  412. 

Nut  Frosting,  530. 

Opera  Frosting,  530. 

Sauce,  415. 

to  Make,  586. 
Caramels,  Sultana,  543. 
Carbohydrates,  2. 
Carbon-Dioxide,  6. 
Card  Cakes,  496. 

Cardinal  Mousse  with  Iced  Madeira 
Sauce,  456. 

Punch,  440. 
Carpets,  Sweeping  of,  589,  591. 
Carrots,  288. 

and  Peas,  288. 

Poulette  Sauce,  288. 
Casein,  2. 

Vegetable,  2. 
Casserole  of  Chestnuts,  376. 

of  Lamb.  220. 

of  Rice  and  Meat,  224. 
Cassia.  13. 
Cauliflower,  289. 

a  la  Hollandaise,  289. 

ft  la  Huntington,  289. 

ft  la  Parmesan,  280. 

au  Gratin,  280. 


Cauliflower,  Creamed,  289. 
Fritters,  350. 

Sauce,  276. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  125. 
Caviare,  155. 

Cayenne,  13. 
Cecils  with  Tomato  Sauce,  213. 
Ceiling,  Smoked,  how  to  Clean,  591. 
Celery,  290. 

and  Cabbage  Salad,  329. 

Dressed,  329. 

Fried,  350. 

Fried,  with  Tomato  Sauce,  290. 

in  White  Sauce,   590. 

Relish,  583. 

Sauce,  272. 

Soup  I,  136  ;   IT,  137. 
Soup,  Cream  of,  123. 
Cellulose,  7. 
Cereal  with  Fruit,  87. 
Cerealine  Pudding,  390. 
Cereals,  85. 

Composition  of,  85. 

Table  for  Cooking,  86. 
Chafing-Dish,  556. 

Breaded  Tongue  with  Tomato 
Sauce,  563. 

Cheese  Omelet,  558. 

Clams  ft  la  Newburg,  560. 

Creamed  Sardines,  561. 

Devilled  Almonds,  565. 

Devilled  Bones,  565. 

Devilled  Chestnuts,  565. 

Eggs  ft  la  Caracas,  558. 

Eggs  au  Beurre  Noir,  558. 

English  Monkey,  563. 

Fig  Cups,  566. 

Fish  ft  la  Provengale,  561. 

Fruit  Canapes,  565. 

Grilled  Sardines,  561. 

Jack's  Oyster  Ragout,  559. 

List  of  Dishes  for,  557. 

Lobster  ft  la  Delmonico,  560. 

Lobster  ft  la  Newburg,  560. 

Minced  Mutton,  564. 

Mutton     with     Currant    Jelly 
Sauce,  564. 

Oyster  Rarebit,  562. 

Oysters  ft  la  D'Uxelles,  559. 

Oysters  ft  la  Thorndike,  559. 

Peach  Canapes,  565. 

Sardines  with  Anchovy  Sauce, 
561. 

Scotch  Woodcocfc,  563. 

Scrambled    Eggs    with    Calf's 
Brains,  557. 

Scrambled    Eggs    with    Sweet- 
breads, 557. 

Shredded   Ham   with   Currant 
.Telly  Sauce,  564. 

Shrimps  ft  la  Newburg,  560. 

Tomato  Rarebit,  563. 

Union  Grill,  558. 

Venison   Cutlets   with   Apples^ 
564. 

Welsh  Rarebit  I,  562. 

Welsh  Rarebit  II,  562. 


622 


INDEX 


Chambery  Potatoes,  311. 
Champagne  Punch,  44. 

Sauce,  269. 
Charlotte,  Burnt  Almond,  428. 

Chocolate,  428. 

Glace  (Frozen)   459. 

Orange,  429. 

Russe,  427. 

Russe,  Caramel,  428. 
Chaud-frold  of  Chicken,  385. 

of  Eggs,  386. 
Cheese,  11. 

and      Anchovy       Sandwiches, 
551 

and  Currant  Salad,  337. 

and  Olive  Canapes,  555. 

and  Olive  Salad,  337. 

Balls,  377. 

Cakes,  475, 

Canapes  I,  553. 

Canapes  II,  554. 

Composition  of,  11. 

Croquettes,  355. 

Fondue,  377. 

Gnocchi  Sl  la  Romaine,  352. 

Milk,  11. 

Milk  and  Cream,  12. 

Omelet,  558. 

Salad,  337. 

Souffle,  377. 

Souffle  with  Pastry,  381. 

Sticks,  145. 

Straws,  475. 

Various  Kinds  of,  11. 

Wafers,  553. 
Cherries,  Canned,  579. 
Cherry   Fritters,  Maraschino  Sauce, 

351. 
Chestnut  Croquettes,  355. 

Gravy,  255. 

Puree  of,  126,  292. 

Roulettes,  355. 

Souffle,  398. 
Chestnuts,  292. 

Baked,  292. 

Devilled,  565. 

en  Casserole,  376. 

how  to  Shell,  587. 
Chiccory  or  Endive,  290. 
Chicken  k  la  McDonald,  374. 

a  la  Merango,  250. 

a  la  Providence,  246. 

a  la  Stanley,  246. 

and      Mushroom      Croquettes, 
360. 

and  Oyster  Salad,  346. 

and   Oysters  a  Ja  M6tropole, 
261. 

Baked,  250. 

Blanketed,  249. 

Blanquette  of,  262. 

Braised,  248. 

Breslin  Potted,  252. 

Broiled,  245. 

Chartreuse,  263. 

Chaud-froid  of,  3S6. 

Creamea,  261. 


Chicken,     Creamed,     with     Mush« 
rooms,  261. 

Creamed  with  Potato  Border, 
261. 

Croquettes  I,  360. 

Croquettes  II,  360. 

Curry,  252. 

Cutlets,  373. 

Cutlets  of,  372. 

en  Casserole,  252. 

Fillet,  to,  245. 

Fillet,  Large,  245. 

Fillet,  Mignon,  245. 

Fillets     of.     Sauce     Supreme, 
374. 

Force-meat  I,  149. 

Force-meat  II,  150,  375. 

Fricassee,  248. 

Fried,  249. 

Fried,  Southern  Style,  2i9. 

Gravy,   248. 

Gumbo,  251. 

Hollandaise,  263. 

in  Baskets,  261. 

Jellied,  253. 

Lenox,  387. 

Livers  en  Brochette,  376. 

Sauted,  253. 

with  Bacon,  253. 

with  Curry,  254. 

with  Madeira  Sauce,  253. 

Luncheon,  261, 

Maryland,  249. 

Moulded,  Sauterne  Jelly,  387. 

Mousse,  374. 

Pie,  251. 

Planked,  250. 

Roast,  247. 

Salad  Dressing,  325. 

Salad  I,  344. 

Salad  II,  344, 

Salad,    Individual,    in    Aspic^ 
345, 

Sandwiches,  550. 

Scalloped,   262. 

Souffle,  262, 

Soup,  120. 

Soup  with  Wine,  118. 

Stew,  251. 

Stewed  with  Onions,  246o 

Stuffing  I,  247. 

Stuffing  II,  247. 

Supreme  of,  367. 

Timbales  I,  365. 

Timbales  II,  366. 

Timbales  III,  366. 
Chiffonade  Salad,  333. 
Chili  Con  Carni,  246. 
Chili  Sauce,  583. 
Chocolate,  39. 
Chocolate  I,  41. 

II,  41. 

III,  41. 

Blare-Mange,  411. 
Bread  Pudding,  393. 
Cake  I,  506. 

Cake  II,  506. 


INDEX 


623 


Chocolate  Cakes,  491. 

Caramels,  539. 

Caramels,  Nut,  540. 

Caramels,  Rich,  540. 

Charlotte,  428. 

Cookies,  491. 

Cream,  412. 

Cream  Candy,  542. 

Cream  Filling,  524. 

Dominoes,  507. 

Filling,  525. 

Fritters    with    Vanilla    Sauce, 
353. 

Frosting  I,  527. 

Frosting  II,  528. 

Frosting,  Boiled,  529. 

Frozen,  with  Whipped  Cream, 
437. 

Fruit  Cake.  512. 

Fudge  Frosting,  531. 

Ice  Cream  I,  444  ;    II,  444. 

Marshmallow  Cake,  506. 

Mousse,  455. 

Nougat  Cake,  506. 

Pie,  508. 

Pudding,  395. 

Pudding,  Steamed,  400. 

Rice  Meringue,  398. 

Sauce,  408,  418,  443. 

Souffle,  397. 

Sponge  Cake,  511. 

Vienna  Cake,  512. 
Chondrin,  191. 
Chopped  Paste,  464. 

Pickles,  584. 
Chops,  Lamb,  a  la  Castillane,  216. 

a,  la  Marseilles,  216. 

a  la  Signora,  216. 

en  Papillote,  217. 

French,  215. 

Kidney,  214. 

Mutton,  Breaded,  216. 

Mutton,  Broiled,  215. 

Pan-broiled,  215. 

Pan-broiled,  a  la  Lucullus,  376. 

Rib,  214. 

Pork,  with  Apples,  236. 

Veal,  Bavarian,  227. 
Chow-Chow.  585. 
Chowder,  Clam,  143. 

Connecticut,  142. 

Corn,  141. 

Pish,  142. 

German,  144. 

Lobster,  144. 

Rhode  Island,  143. 
Chowders,  141-144. 
Christmas  Cakes,  520. 

Dinner,  Menu  for,  600. 
Cider  Jelly,  419. 

Punch,  45. 
Cigarettes  a  la  Prince  Henry,  380. 
Cinnamon,  13. 

Bars,  534. 

Cakes,  510. 
Citron  Cake,  506. 
Clam  and  Chicken  Frapp6,  132. 


Clam  and  Oyster  Soup,  131. 

and  Tomato  Bisque,  132. 

Bouillon,  129. 

Chowder,  143. 

Force-meat,  149. 

Frapp^,  439. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  132. 

Soup  with  Poached  Eggs,  131. 
Clams,  156. 

a  la  Grand  Union,  186. 

a  la  Newburg,  560. 

Fricassee  of,  164. 

Fritters,  354. 

Little  Neck,  185. 

Roasted,  185. 

Steamed,  185. 

Stuffed,  370. 

Union  League,  185.    , 
Claret  Consomme,  129. 

Cup,  45. 

Punch,  42. 

Wine,    to    Remove    Stains    ot^ 
588. 
Clove,  13. 
Club  French  Dressing,  324. 

Sandwiches,  552. 
Cocktail,  Fruit,  569. 

Lobster,  186. 

Oyster,  I,  180. 

Oyster,  II,  180. 

Oyster,  III,  180. 
Cocoa,  39. 

Brandy,  41. 

Breakfast,  40. 

Cracked,  40- 

Reception,  ^1. 

Shells,  40. 
Cocoanut  Butter,  8. 

Cakes  I,  535. 

Cakes  II,  535. 

Cream  Candy,  542. 

Cream  Cookies,  489. 

Filling,  525. 

Naples,  Sauterne  Sauce,  456. 

Pie,  507. 

Tea  Cakes,  477. 
Cod,  152. 

Baked,    with    Oyster    Stuffing, 
165. 

Liver  Oil,  152. 

Scalloped,  177. 

Steaks,  Fried,  173. 
Codfish,  Salt,  Creamed,  178. 

Hash,  178. 
Coffee,  35. 

After-dinner,  38. 

Boiled,  37. 

Buying  of,  36. 

Cake,  Rich.  514. 

Cakes  (Brioche),  62. 

Cream  Filling,  524. 

Custard,  415. 

Filtered,  37. 

Fondant,  545. 

for  One,  38. 

Fritters,  Coffee  Cream  Sauce, 
S53. 


624 


INDEX 


Coffee  Ice  Cream,  445. 

Ice  Cream,   in  half  of  Canta- 
loupe, 445. 

Jelly,  419. 

Mousse,  454, 

Pot  of.  Small,  38. 

Rolls,  63. 

Sauce,  443. 

Souffle,  434. 

Vienna,  38. 
Colbert  Consomm^,  128. 
Collagen,  191. 
Colonial  Sandwiches,  552. 
Columbian  Pudding,  424. 
Compote  of  Rice  witii  Peaches,  377. 

of  Rice  with  Pears,  378. 
Concord  Cream,  458. 
Condes,  476. 
Condiments,  14. 
Confections  and  Frostings,  527. 

Bonbons,  545. 

Bonbons,  to  Dip,  546. 

Buttercups,  538. 

Butter  Scotch,  539. 

Butter  Taffy,  539. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  539. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  Nut,  540. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  Rich,  540. 

Chocolate  Cream  Candy,  542. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy,  542. 

Cream  Mints,  546. 

Cream  Nut  Bars,  546. 

Creamed  Walnuts,  543. 

Dipped  Walnuts,  546. 

Fondant,  544. 

Fondant,  Coffee,  545. 

Fondant,  Maple,  545. 

Fondant,  White,  544. 

French  Nougat,  541. 

Glac6  Fruits,  547. 

Glac6  Nuts,  547. 

Horehound  Candy,  539. 

Ice  Cream  Candy,  538. 

Molasses  Candy,  537. 

Molasses  Velvet  Candy,  537. 

Nougatine  Drops,  541. 

Nut  Bar,  540. 

Parisian  Sweets,  536. 

Peanut  Nougat,  540. 

Peppermints,  544. 

Spun  Sugar,  547. 

Sugared  Popped  Corn,  537. 

Sultana  Caramels,  543. 

Tutti-Frutti  Candy,  546. 

Vinegar  Candy,  538. 

Wintergreen  Wafers,  541. 
Consomme,  109,  128.- 

a  la  Royal,  128. 

au  Parmesan,  128. 

aux  pates,  129. 

Bortchock,  J29. 

Clam,  132. 

Claret,  129. 

Colbert,  128. 

d'Orleans,  129. 

Princess,  129. 

vitti  Ye^etablei,  129. 


Cookery,  15. 
Cookies,  Almond,  490. 

Boston,  489. 

Chocolate,  491. 

Chocolate  Fruit,  491. 

Cocoanut  Cream,  489. 

Cream,  487. 

German  Chocolate,  491. 

Ginger  Snaps,  485. 

Hermits,  488. 

Imperial,  488. 

Jelly  Jumbles,  488. 

Molasses,  485. 

Molasses,  Soft,  486. 

Nut,  490. 

Oatmeal,  487. 

Peanut,  490. 

Rich,  488. 

Sand  Tarts,  492. 

Seed  Cakes,  490. 

Spice,  486. 

Walnut  Molasses  Bars,  485. 
Copper  Boiler,  to  Clean,  590. 
Corn  a  la  Southern,  291. 

Balls,  537. 

Cake,  Golden,   75. 

Cake,  Rice,   76. 

Cake,  Spider,  76. 

Cake,   Sweetened  with  Molas 
ses,   75. 

Cake,  White,   175. 

Cake,  White.  Meal,  76. 

Chowder,  141. 

Fritters,  291. 

Green,  291 ;  Boiled,  291. 

Griddle  Cakes,  78. 

Meal  Gems,  74. 

Meal  Mush,  88. 

Oysters,  291. 

Pudding,  392. 

Soup,  137. 

Starch,  6. 

Starch  Cake,  516. 

Succotash,  291. 
Corned  Beef  Hash,  213. 

Beef  Hash  with  Beets,  213. 
Cottage  Cheese  I,  336. 

Cheese  II,  337. 

Pudding,  395. 
Coup  a  I'Ananas,  442. 

au  Marrons,  456. 

Sicilienne,  442. 
Covington  Cream,  450. 
Crab  and  Tomato  Salad,  343. 

Apple  Jelly,  573. 

Meat,  Indienne,  368. 

Meat,  Terrapin  Style,  370. 

Soup,  126. 
Crabs,  158. 

Devilled,  368. 

Mock,  371. 

Soft-shelled,  174. 

to  Clean,  174. 
Cracker  and  Cheese  Salad,  336. 
Cracker  Crumbs   (Buttered),  586. 

Custard  Pudding,  393. 
Crackers  an^  Cheese,  145. 


INDEX 


625 


Crackers,  Crisp,  145. 

SoufQed,  145. 
Cranberry  Frappe,  439. 

Jelly,  572. 

Pie,  468. 

Pudding,   Steamed,  399. 

Sauce,  572. 
Cranberries,  Frozen,  440. 
Cream,  Bavarian   (Quick),  420. 

Cake,  509. 

Cakes,  518. 
Cakes,  Frencti,  519. 
Cakes,     Frencli     Strawberry, 
519. 

Cookies,  487. 

Dressing  I,  324  ;  II,  324. 

Filling,  524. 

French  Easter,  432.  • 

Fruit,  431. 

Ginger,  429. 

Heavy,  425. 

Horns,  476, 

Ivory,  431. 

Mints,  546. 

Nut  Bars,  546. 

of  Tartar,  53. 

Pie,  468. 

Pineapple,  440. 
Pineapple  Bavarian,  430. 
Rose  Mints,  546. 
Sauce,  266. 
Sauce  I,  407. 
Sauce  II.  407. 
Scones,  70. 
Spanish,  423. 

Strawberry  Bavarian,  430. 
Tapioca,  415. 
Toast,  68. 
to  Whip,  425. 
Whips,  418. 
Creamed  Walnuts,  543. 
Creamy  Sauce  I,  408. 

Sauce  II,  408. 
Crgme  aux  Fruits,  425. 
Crgme  de  Menthe  Ice,  437. 
Creole  Sauce,  278. 
Crescents,  534. 
Cromesquis  a  la  Russe,  369. 
Croquettes,  354. 
Banana,  354. 
Beef  and  Rice,  359. 
Cheese,  355. 
Chestnut,  355. 
Chicken  I,  360. 
Chicken  II,  360. 
Chicken  and  Mushroom,  360. 
Egg,  104. 
Fish,   177. 
Lamb,  359. 
Lenten,  355. 
Lincoln,  361. 
Lobster,  358. 
Maryland,  360. 
Oyster  and  Macaroni,  357. 
Potato,  316. 
Potato,  French,  316. 
Poteto,  Sweet,  318 


Croquettes,     Rice     and     Tomato, 
356. 

Rice,  Sweet,  356. 

Rice,  with  Jelly,  356. 

Salmon,  358. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  444. 

Veal,  359. 
Croustades  of  Bread,  378. 

of  Rice,  378. 
Croatons  (Duchess  Crusts),  145. 
Crullers,  83. 
Crustaceans,  156. 
Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad,  328. 

Cups  with  Lettuce,  328. 

Pickle,  Ripe,  583. 

Pickles,  Unripe,  584. 

Salad,  328. 
Cucumber  Sauce  I,  272. 

Sauce  II,  272,  387. 

Soup,  125. 
Cucumbers,  292. 

Boiled,  292. 

Fried,  292. 

Sliced,  292. 

Stuffed,  293. 
Cumberland  Sauce,  259. 
Cup  Cake,  510. 

St.  Jacques,  435. 
Currant  and  Raspberry  Jelly,  574. 

and  Raspberry  Preserve,  581. 

Cake,  509. 

Ice,  436. 

Jelly,  574. 

Jelly  Sauce,  276. 

Mint  Sauce,  219. 

Pie,  468. 
Currants,  Spiced,  582. 
Curried  Eggs  I,  101. 

Eggs  II,  101. 

Potatoes,  321. 

Vegetables,  307. 
Curry,  Chicken,  252. 

Dressing,  324. 

India,  229. 

Lobster,  187. 

Mutton,  220. 
Curtain  and  Porti&re  Poles,  how  to 

Slip  Easily,  591. 
Custard,  Baked,  414. 

Banana,  413. 

Boiled,  413. 

Caramel,  415. 

Chicken,  147. 

Coffee,  415. 

Egg,  146. 

Egg,  for  Decorating,  384. 

Orange,  413. 

Peach.  413. 

Pie,  469. 

Royal,  147. 

Souffle,  396. 
Cutlets,  Chicken,  373. 

Lobster,  358. 

of  Chicken,  372. 

of  Sweetbreads  ft  la  Victoria, 
361. 

RuseUn.  878. 


626 


IKDBX 


Cutlets,  Salmon,  358. 

Tenderloin,  with  Chestnut  Pu- 
ree, 199. 
Veal,  226. 
with  Asparagus  Tips,  234. 


Damson  Jelly,  575. 

Preserves,  580. 
Dandelions,  294. 
Date  Bread,  57. 

Pie,  4G9. 
Dates,  Stuffed,  I,  535. 

Stuffed,  II,  535. 
De  John's  Salad,  340. 
Delmonico  Ice  Cream,  with  Angel 
Food,  450. 

Potatoes,  319. 
Demi-glaee  aux  Fraises,  457. 
Desserts,  Cold,  411-429. 
Devil's  Food  Cake  I,  511. 
Devil's  Food  Cake  II,  512. 
Devilled  Almonds,  565. 

Bones,  565. 

Chestnuts,  565. 

Crabs,  368. 

Oysters,  368. 

Scallops,  369. 
Dextrine,  5. 
Dextrose,  6. 
Dinner.  Boiled,  206. 

Menus.  597-603. 
Dipped  Walnuts,  546. 
Disinfectants,  591. 
Doors    and    Drawers,    to    Prevent 

Creaking  of,  591. 
Doughnuts  I,  82. 

II,  82. 

III,  83. 
Raised,  81. 

Doughs,  50. 

Dover  Egg-beater,  Care  of,  590. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  267. 

Dresden  Patties,  380. 

Drop  Cakes,  Fried,  81. 

Cakes,  Rye,  81. 
Dropped  Eggs  (Poached),  95. 
Dry  Toast,  67. 
Duchess  Potatoes,  312. 

Soup,  121. 
Duck,  241. 

Braised,  257. 

Peanut  Stuffing  for,  257. 

Roasted,  257. 

Salmi  of,  264. 

Varieties  of,  241. 
Dumplings,  205. 
Dutch  Apple  Cake,  64." 


East  India  Salad,  337. 
Eclairs,  519. 
Eels,  152. 

Fried,  174. 
Egg  Balls  I,  14C. 

Balls  II.  146. 

Croquettes,  104. 


Egg  Custard,  146. 

Custard   for   Decorating,    146. 
384. 

Farci  I,  103. 

Farci  II,  103. 

Salad  I,  336. 

Salad  II,  336. 

Sandwiches,  550. 

Sauce  I,  267. 

Sauce  II,  267. 

Souffle,  103. 

Timbales,  104. 
Eggplant,  Fried,  I,  293. 

Fried,  II,  293. 

Scalloped,  294. 

Stuffed,  293. 
Eggs,  94. 

k  la  Benedict,   97. 
h  la  Buckingham,  99. 

a  la  Caracas,  558. 
a  la  Commodore,  97. 
a  la  Finuoise,  96. 
k  la  Goldenrod,  100. 
a  la  Juliette,  104. 
a  la  Lee,  97. 
Si  la  Livingston,  99. 
S,  la  Parisienne,  104. 
a  la  Sidney,  102. 
a  la  Suisse,  96. 
a  la  Turk,  99. 
au  Beurre  Noir,  558. 
au  Gratin,  100. 
Baked  or  Shirred,  97. 
Boiled,  95. 
Buttered,  99. 

Buttered,  with  Tomatoes,  100. 
Chaud-froid  of,  385. 
Composition  of,  95. 
Curried,  I,  101. 
Curried,  II,  101. 
Dropped,  95. 
•      Freshness   of,   how    to    Deter* 
i  mine,  95. 

Fried,  100. 
Ham  and,  237. 
Huntington,  102. 
in  Batter,  101. 
Keeping,  Ways  of,  95. 
Lucanian,  103. 
Mornay,  105. 
Planked,  95. 
Poached,  a  la  Reine,  96. 
Poached,  a  la  Tripe,  97. 
Poached,  w-ith  Clam  Soup,  131. 
Poached,     with     Sauce    Bear- 

naise,  98. 
Scalloped,  101. 
Scrambled,  98. 

Scrambled,  Country  Style,  99. 
Scrambled,       with      Anchovy 

Toast,  99. 
Scrambled,  with  Calf's  Brains, 

557. 
Scrambled,  with   Sweetbreads, 

557. 
Scrambled,       with       Tomato 
Baac%  98. 


DHDEX 


627 


Eggs,  Shirred,  97. 

Stuffed,  102, 

Stuffed,  in  a  Nest,  102. 

Suzette,  96. 

Waldorf  Style,  98. 

withi  Spinach  a  la  Martin,  107. 
Election  Cake,  505. 
Emergency  Biscuit,  71. 
Endive,  290. 
English  Fruit  Cake,  521. 

Meat  Pie,  472. 

Monkey,  563. 

Plum  Pudding  I,  404. 

Plum  Pudding  II,  404. 
Entire  Wheat  Paste,  465. 
Entrees,  348-389. 

Apple  Fritters  I,  349. 

Apple  Fritters  II,  349. 

Apple  J^ritters  III,  349. 

Aspic  Jelly,  382. 

Baba  Cakes,  388. 

Baba     Cakes     with     Apricots, 
389. 

Banana  Croquettes,  354. 

Banana  Fritters  I,  349. 

Banana  Fritters  II,  350. 

Beef  and  Rice  Croquettes,  359. 

Birds  in  Aspic,  383. 

Birds  on  Canapes,  375. 

Bouchees,  379. 

Breast  of  Quail  Lucullus,  376. 

Bunuelos,  362. 

Calf's  Brain  Fritters,  354. 

Cauliflower  Fritters,  350. 

Chaud-froid  of  Chicken,  385. 

Chaud-froid  of  Eggs,  386. 

Cheese  Balls,  377. 

Cheese  Cro(iuettes,  355. 

Cheese  Fondue,  377. 

Cheese  Souffle,  377. 

Cheese    Souffle    with    Pastry, 
381. 

Cherry    Fritters,    Maraschino 
Sauce,  351. 

Chestnut  Croquettes,  355. 

Chestnut  Roulettes,  355. 

Chicken  a  la  McDonald,  374. 

Chicken    and    Mushroom    Cro- 
quettes, 360. 

Chicken  Croquettes  I,  360. 

Chicken  Croquf^ttes  II,  360. 

Chicken  Cutlets,  373. 

Chicken  in  Aspic.  383. 

Chicken,  Lenox,  387. 

Chicken  Livers  en   Brochette, 
376. 

Chicken  Mousse,  374. 

Chicken  Timbales  I.  365. 

Chicken  Timbales  II.  366. 

Chicken  Timbales  III,  366. 

Chocolate  Fritters  with  Vanilla 
Sauce.  353. 

Cigarettes  h  la  Prince  Henry, 
380. 

Clam  Fritters,  354. 

Coffee  Fritters,  Coffee  Cream 
Sauce,  363. 


Entries,    Compote    of    Rice    with 

Peaches,  377. 
Compote  of  Rice  with  Pears 

378. 
Crab  Meat,  Indienne,  368. 
Crab    Meat,    Terrapin     Style, 

370. 
Cromesquis  h.  la  Russe,  369. 
Croustades  of  Bread,  378. 
Cutlets  of  Chicken,  372. 
Cutlets   of    Sweetbreads   a    la 

Victoria,  361. 
Devilled  Crabs,  368. 
Devilled  Oysters,  368. 
Devilled  Scallops,  369. 
Egg   Custard   for    Decorating, 

384. 
Epigrams  of  Sweetbread,  361. 
Farina  Cakes  with  .lelly,  352. 
Fillets  of  Chicken,  374. 
Fillets  of  Game,  373. 
Fltltes,  388. 
Fried  Celery,  350.  • 
Fruit  Fritters,  350. 
Gnocchi  a  la  Romaine,  352. 
Halibut  Marguerites,  369. 
Halibut  Timbales  I,  364. 
Halibut  Timbales  II,  364. 
Ham  Timbales,  366. 
Jellied  Vegetables,  385. 
Lamb  Chops,  Pan  Broiled,  a  la 

Lucullus,  376. 
Lamb  Croquettes,  359. 
Leuten  Croquettes,  355. 
Lincoln  Croquettes,  361. 
Lobster  Cream  I,  365. 
Lobster  Cream  II,  365. 
Lobster  Croquettes,  358. 
Lobster  Cutlets,  358. 
Lobster  Timbales  I,  364. 
Lobster  Timbales  II,  364. 
Macaroni  Timbales,  363. 
Martin's  Specialty,  371. 
Maryland  Croquettes,  360. 
Mavonnaise  of  Mackerel,  386. 
Mock  Crabs,  371. 
Moulded      Chicken,      Sauterne 

Jelly,  387. 
Moulded     Salmon,     Cucumber 

Sauce,  386. 
Olives,  Stuffed,  in  Aspic,  383. 
Omelet  Souffle,  379. 
Orange  Fritters,  350. 
Oyster     and     Macaroni     Cro- 
quettes, 357. 
Oyster    Crabs   a   la   Newburg, 

357. 
Oyster    Crabs,     Bouch6es    of, 

369. 
Oyster  Crabs,  Fried,  369. 
Oysters  a  la  Somerset,  357. 
Patties.  379. 
Patties,  Dresden,  380. 
Patties.  Russian,  380. 
Pimento  Timbales,  363. 
Quail  Pies,  381. 
Queen  Fritters,  352. 


628 


INDEX 


Entrees,  Ramequins  SoufHes,  377. 
Rice   and   Tomato   Croquettes, 

356. 
Rice  Croquettes,   Sweet,  356, 
Rice    Croquettes    with    Jelly, 

356. 
Rice  Croustades,  378. 
Rice  Timbales,  363. 
Rissoles,  379. 
Rissoles  of  Lamb,  i\  Tlndienne, 

381 
Rum  Cakes,  388. 
Russian  Cutlets,  373. 
Salmon  Croquettes,  358. 
Salmon  Cutlets,  358. 
Sardines  Fried  in  Batter,  351. 
Shad  Roe  with  Celery,  370. 
Souffle  au  Rhum,  378. 
Spaghetti   Timbales.   363. 
Sponge  Fritters,  353. 
Spring   Mousse,   384. 
Strawberry  Baskets,  362. 
StufiEed  Clams,  370. 
Stuffing?  for  Chicken  in  Aspic, 

384. 
Swedish  Timbales,  362. 
Sweetbread   h   la   Mont   Vert, 
.    371. 
Sweetbread      and      Mushroom 

Timbales,  366. 
Sweetbread   in  Peppers,   372. 
Sweetbread  Mousse,   367. 
Sweetbread  Ramequins,  371. 
Tomato  Fritters,  351. 
Tomatoes  in  Aspic,  382. 
Tongue  in  Aspic,  383. 
Veal  Croquettes,  359. 
Vol-au-vents,    379. 
Zigaras  a.  la  Russe,  380. 
Espagnole  Sauce  (Brown)  II,  268. 

Fadges,  77. 

Fancy  Cakes  and  Confections,  533- 

548. 
Farina  Cakes  with  Jelly,  352. 

Soup,  120. 
^at,  8. 

for  Frying,  test,  21. 

Margarin,   8. 

Olein   (Liquid),  8. 

Palmitin    (Semi-Solid),  8. 

Stearin   (Solid),  8. 

Suet,  8. 

to  Clarify,  21. 

to  Try  Out,  21. 
Fats  and  Oils,  8. 
Fermentation,  49. 

Acetic,  49. 

Alcoholic,  49. 

Lactic,  49. 
■A       Fermented  Bread,  50. 
*        Fibrin,  2,  191. 

Figaro  Sauce,  275. 
Vig  Cups,  566. 

F-clair  Cake,  516. 

FilHng,  526. 

Ice  Cream,  447. 

Pudding  I,  403, 


Fig  Pudding  II,  403. 
Fillet,  Chicken  to,  245. 

of  Beef.  Larded,  283. 
Fillets  of  Bass  or  Halibut,  Baked, 
169. 

of  Beef,  a  la  Moelle,  199. 

of  Beef,  Broiled,  198. 

of  Beef,  Cherry  Sauce,  199. 

of  Beef(Mignon),  Sauted,  with 
Sauce  Figaro,  199. 

of  Beef  (Mignon),  Sauted,  with 
Sauce  Trianon,  199. 

of    Beef    with    StufEed    Mush- 
room  Caps,  250. 

of  Beef  with  Vegetables,  203. 

of  Fish,  a  la  Bement,  171. 

of  Game,  373. 

of      Haddock,      White      Wine 
Sauce,  170. 

of  Halibut,  a  la  Poul^tte,  170. 

of  Halibut  with  Brown  Sauce, 
169. 
Filling,  Chocolate,  525. 

Chocolate  Cream,  525. 

Cocoanut,  525. 

Cocoanut,  Lemon  Cream,  526. 

Cream,  524, 

Cream,  Coffee,  524. 

Cream,  French,  524. 

Fig,  526. 

Lamb,  381. 

Lemon,  525. 

Lobster  and  Oyster,  188. 

Marshmallow  Paste,  526, 

Nut  or  Fruit,  525. 

Orange,  525. 

Pistachio  Paste,  526. 

Prune  Almond,  526. 

Strawberry,  524. 
Finiste  Sauce,  279. 
Finnan  Iladdie,  152. 

a  la  Delmonico,  179. 

Baked,  179. 

Broiled,  179. 
Fire,  16. 

how  to  Build,  17. 
Fish,  151. 
I         a  la  Crgme,  176. 

a  la  Provengal,  561. 

and  Egg  Croquettes,  177. 

Balls,  178. 

Blue  (Pomatomidae),   158. 

Chowder,  142. 

Cod,  152. 

Composition  of,  161. 

Cooked  in  Boiling  Water,  160. 

Cooking,  to  Prepare  for,  159. 

Cooking,  Ways  of,  160. 

Croquettes,  177. 

Eels,  152. 

Finnan  Haddie,  152. 

Flounder,  153. 

Force  Meat  I.  148. 

Force  Meat  II,  149. 

Freshness    of,    to    Determine, 
151. 

Fried,    Russian    Style,    Mush- 
room Sauce,  174. 


INDEX 


629 


Haddock,  152. 

Halibut  (Pleuronectldae),  152. 

Hash,  177. 

Herring,   155. 

Herring,  Kippered,  179. 

Macljerel,   154. 

Mackerel,  Snapping,  153. 

Mackerel,  Spanish,  154. 

Perch,  152. 

Salad,  with  Cucumbers,  343. 

Salmon,  154. 

Salt,  152. 

Sardines,  27. 

Shad,  Jack,  154. 

Shad,  Roe,  154. 

Smelts,  153. 

Sole,  153. 

Stock,  109. 

Stock,  Soups  with,  129, 

Stuffing  I,  164. 

Stuffing  II,  165. 

Sword,  152. 

Table     Showing     Composition 
of,  161. 

to  Bake,  161. 

to  Bone,  160. 

to  Broil,  161. 

to  Clean,  159. 

to  Fillet,  160. 

to  Fry,  161. 

to  Skin,  159. 

Trout,  153. 

Turban  of,  176. 

Turbot,  153. 

Ways   of  Using  Remnants   of 
Cooked,  176. 

White,  153. 

White  and  Oily,'  152. 
Five  o'clock  Tea,  34. 
Flavoring  Extracts,  14. 

Extracts  and  Wine,  587. 
Florentine  Meringue,  476. 
Flounder,  Fried  Fillets,  173. 
Flour,  46. 

Entire  Wheat,  49. 

Gluten,  49. 

Graham,  47. 

Wheat,  47. 
Flowering  Ice  Cream,  457. 
Fmtes,  388. 
Foamy  Sauce  I,  408. 

Sauce  II,  408. 
Fondant, 

Coffee,  545. 

Icing,  531. 

Maple,  545. 

White,  544. 
Food,  1. 

Carbohydrates,  2. 

Fats  and  Oils,  2,  8. 

Inorganic,  1. 

Organic,  1. 

Proportions  of,  Correct,  2. 

Proteid,  1,  2. 

Ration.  Daily  Average,  3. 

Salts,  5. 

Water,  2,  4. 
Force-meat, 

Chicken,  I,  149. 


Force-meat,  Chicken,  II,  150. 

Clam,  149. 

Fish',  I,  148. 

Fish,  II,  149. 

Oyster,  149. 

Salmon,  149. 
Fowl,  Boiled,  245. 

to  Cut  up,  245. 

to  Truss,  244. 
Frappe,  433. 

Cafe,  439. 

Clam,  439. 

Clam  and  Chicken,  132. 

Cranberry,  439. 

Grape,  439. 

Pineapple,  438. 
French  Cream  Filling,  524. 

Dressing,  323. 

Easter  Cream,  432. 

Fried  Onions,  296. 

Fruit  Pudding,  403. 

Nougat,  541. 

Omelet,  107. 

Rusks,  61. 
Fricasseeing,  22. 
Fricassee  of  Clams,  146. 

of    Lobster    and    MushroomSr 
188. 

of  Oysters,  181. 
Fried  Celery,  350. 

Chicken,  249. 

Chicken,        Southern       Style, 
249. 

Fish,     Russian     Style,    Mush- 
room Sauce,  174. 

Lobster,  184. 

Oysters,  184. 

Oysters  in  Batter,  184. 

Oysters,    Philadelphia    Relish, 
185. 

Scallops,  186. 

Smelts,  173. 
Fritter  Beans,  148. 
Fritters,  Apple,  I.  349. 

Apple,  IT.  349. 

Apple,  III,  349. 

Banana,  I,  349. 

Banana,  II,  350. 

Calf's  Brains,  354. 

Cauliflower,  350. 

Cherry,      Maraschino      Sauce, 
351. 

Chocolate,  with  Vanilla  Sauce, 
353. 

Clara,  354. 

Coffee,     with     Coffee     Cream 
Sauce,  353. 

Corn,  291. 

Fruit,  350. 

Orange,  350. 

Parsnip,  297. 

Queen,  352. 

Salsify,  296. 

Sponge,  353. 

Tomato,  351. 
Frogs,  159. 

Flind  Legs,  175. 
Frostings,  524-532. 

Boiled,  529. 


630 


INDEX 


Frostings,  Brown,  529. 

Caramel,  I,  530. 

Caramel,  II,  530. 

Caramel  Nut,  530. 

Caramel,  Opera,  530. 

Chocolate,  I,  527. 

Chocolate,  II,  528. 

Chocolate,   III,   528. 

Chocolate,  Boiled,  529. 

Chocolate  Fudge,  531. 

Confectioners',  527. 

Fondant  Icing,  531. 

Gelatine,  527. 

Ice  Cream,  528. 

Maple  Sugar,  529. 

Maple  Sugar  Cream,  529. 

Marshmallow,  531. 

Milk,  529. 

Mocha,  518,  531. 

Orange,  527. 

Ornamental,  I,  582. 

Ornamental,   II,  532. 

Plain,  527. 

White  Mountain  Cream,  528. 
Frozen  Apricots,  440. 

Chocolate,        with       Whipped 
Cream,  457. 

Cranberries,  440. 

Orange  Souffle,  458. 

Plum  Pudding,  459. 

Souffle  Glac6,  459. 

Tom  and  Jerry,  450. 
Fruit  Beverages,  42-45. 

Cake,  Dark,  515. 

Cake,  English,  521. 

Cake,  Light,  517. 

Canapes,  565. 

Chartreuse,  423. 

Cocktails,  569. 

Cream,  431. 

Fritters,  350. 

Pudding,  403. 

Punch  I,  43. 

Punch  II.  43. 

Punch  III,  43. 

Punch  IV,  43. 

Rolls,  71. 

Salad  I,  417. 

Salad  II,  417. 

Salad,  French,  339. 

Salad,    with    Wine    Dressing, 
417. 

Sandwiches,  552. 

Shortcake,  84. 

Souffle,  397. 

Stains,  to  Remove,  588. 
Fruits,  12,  567. 

Canning    and    Preserving    of, 
577. 

Glac6,  547. 
Fuel,  16. 

Kinds  of,  16. 
Full     Course    Dinner,     Menu    for, 
600. 

Dinners,  Menu  for,  602. 
Furniture,  to  Remove  White  Spots 
from,  588. 

and  Floors,  to  Polish,  590. 


Galattes,  476. 
Game,  Fillets  of,  373. 

Salad,  340. 
Gelatin,  191. 
Gelatine  Frosting,  527. 
Gems,  Corn  Meal,  74. 

Hominy,  74. 

Rye,  74. 
German  Chowder,  144. 

CofEee  Bread,  62. 

Punch,  441. 

Salad  Dressing,  325. 

Sandwiches,  553. 

Toast,  69. 
Giblet  Gravy,  248. 
Giblets,  to  Clean,  244. 
Ginger,  13. 

Varieties  of,  13. 
Gingerbread,  Cambridge,  483. 

Card,  484. 

Christmas,  English,  484. 

Fairy,  483. 

Gossamer,  483. 

Hot  Water,  482. 

Molasses,  Soft,  482. 

New  York,  520. 

Sour  Milk,  482. 

Sugar,  Hard,  484. 

Sugar,  Soft,  483. 
Gingerbreads,  Cookies,  and  Wafers, 

482. 
Ginger  Cream,  429. 

Ice  Cream,  447. 

Pound  Cakes,  520. 

Pudding,  .399. 

Punch,  44. 

Sandwiches,  552. 

Snaps,  485. 
Glac6  Fruits,  547. 

Nuts,  547. 
Glass,  Cut,  Care  of,  589. 
Glassware,    to    Prevent    Breaking, 

589. 
Glazed  Onions,  296. 
Glossary,  605. 
Glucose  (Grape  Sugar),  6. 
Gluten,  2.  49. 

Glycogen  (Animal  Starch),  6,  155. 
Gnocchi  h  la  Romaine,  352. 
Golden  Cake,  517. 

Corn  Cake,  75. 

Spice  Cake,  513. 
Goose,    Roast,    with    Potato    StuflC- 
ing,  256. 

Stuffing  for  (Chestnut),  256. 

to  Truss,  257. 
Graham  Bread,  56. 

Bread,  Steamed,  58. 

Muffins  I,  73. 

Muffins  II,  73. 

Pop-overs,  77. 

Pudding,  401. 
Granite  Ware,  to  Clean,  588. 
Grape  Frappe,  439. 
Grape    Fruit    and    Celery     Salad, 
341. 

how   to   prepare   for    Serving, 
568. 

with  Apricot  Brandy,  569. 


INDEX 


631 


Grape  Fruit  with  Sherry,  568. 

with  Sloe  Gin,  569. 
Grape  Jelly,  574. 

Jelly  (Green),  575. 

Marmalade,  576. 

Sugar  (Glucose),  6. 
Grapes,  how  to  Prepare  for  Serv- 
ing, 568. 
Grass  Stains,  to  Remove,  589. 
Gravy,  248. 

Chestnut,  255. 

Giblet,  248. 

Roast  Beef,  202. 

Turkey,  255. 
Grease  Spots,  to  Remove,  589. 
Green  Butter,  383. 
Greens,  294. 

Beet,  Boiled,  294. 

Dandelion,  294. 
Griddle  Cakes,  78. 

Bread,  79. 

Buckwheat,  79. 

Corn,  78. 

Entire  Wheat,  78. 

Rice,  I,  79. 

Rice,  II,  79. 

Sour  Milk,  78. 

Sweet  Milk,  78. 
Grilled  Muffins,  66. 

Sardines,  561. 
Grouse   (Prairie  Chicken),  242. 

Breast    of.     Saute     Chasseur, 
258. 

Larded,  258. 
Gum  Arabic,  7. 

Tragacanth,  7. 


Haddock,  152. 

Baked,    with    Oyster    Stuffing, 

166. 
Baked,  with  Stuffing,  164. 
Boiled,  162. 
Fillets  of.  White  Wine  Sauce, 

170. 
Hsemaglobin,  192. 
Planked,  168. 
Halibut  a  la  Martin,  171. 
a  la  Poulette,  170. 
a  la  Rarebit,  171. 
au  Lit,  172. 
Baked,    with    Lobster    Sauce, 

166. 
Baked,    with    Tomato    Sauce, 

166. 
Chicken,  Broiled,  163. 
Chicken,  Sandwiches  of,  172. 
Fillets,  Baked,  169. 
Fillets,  Fried,  173. 
Fillets     with     Brown     Sauce, 

169. 
HoUenden,  167. 
Little   (Turbot),  153. 
Marguerites,  369. 
Soup,  137. 
Steamed,  with  Silesian  Sauce, 

163. 
Timbales  I,  364. 
Timbales  II.  364. 


Ham  and  Eggs,  Fried,  237. 

Barbecued,  237. 

Boiled,  237. 

Broiled,  237. 

Roast,  with  Champagne  Sauce, 
237. 

Sandwiches   (Chopped),  550. 

Sandwiches   (Sliced),  550. 

Shredded,  with  Current  Jelly 
Sauce,  564. 

Timbales,  366. 

Westphalian,  238. 
Hamburg  Steak,  200. 
Hard  Sauce,  409. 

Wood  Floors,  to  Polish,   590. 
Hare,  Belgian,  a  la  Maryland,  260. 

Belgian,  Sour  Cream  Sauce,  260. 
Harlequin  Ice  Cream,  448. 

Slices,  147. 
Harvard  Pudding,  400. 

Beets,  286. 

Salad,  347. 
Hasb,  Corned  Beef,  213. 

Corned  Beef,  with  Beets,  213. 

Salted  Codfish,  178. 
Hearts,    Stuffed    with    Vegetables, 

211. 
Helpful     Hints     for     the     Young 

Housekeeper,  586. 
Hermits,  488. 
Herring,  155. 
Hindoo  Salad,  333. 
Hollandaise  Punch,  441. 

Sauce  I,  274. 

Sauce  II,  274. 
HoJlenden  Halibut,  167. 
Hominy,  Fried,  88. 

Gems,  74. 

Muffins  (Raised),  66. 
Honey,  Quince,  577. 
Horehound  Candy,  539. 
Horse-radish,  14. 

Hollandaise  Sauce,  274. 

Sauce  I.  275. 

Sauce  II,  275. 
Horseshoes,  534. 
Hot  Cross  Buns,  65. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce,  278. 

Puddings,  390-405. 

Tartare  Sauce,  277. 
Huckleberries,  Canned,  579. 
Hungarian  Salad,  339. 
Hunter's  Pudding,  403. 
Hygienic  Soup,  120. 


Ice  Chest,  Care  of,  590. 
Ice  Cream,  433. 

Banana,  447. 

Bisque,  446. 

Brown  Bread,  446. 

Burnt  Almond,  445. 

Caramel,  445. 

Chocolate,  I,  444. 

Chocolate,  II,  444. 

Coffee,  445. 

Concord  Cream,  458. 

Covington  Cream,  450. 

Croquettes,  Vanilla,  444. 


632 


INDEX 


Ice  Cream,  Fig,  447. 

Freeze,  how  to,  434. 

Frozen     Chocolate,     with 
Whipped  Cream,  437. 

Frozen  Plum  Pudding,  459. 

Frozen  Pudding  I,  449. 

Frozen  Pudding  II,  449. 

Frozen  Tom  and  Jerry,  450. 

German,  458. 

Ginger,  447. 

Junket,  with  Peaches,  448. 

Macaroon,  447. 

Mould,  how  to,  435. 

Mould,  how  to  Line,  435. 

Neapolitan  or  Harlequin,  448. 

Nougat,  453. 

Orange,  445. 

Orange  Pekoe,  454. 

Philadelphia,  433. 

Pineapple,  445. 

Pineapple    (Cream),   440. 

Pistachio,  447. 

Pistachio  Bisque,   447. 

Pistachio  Fruit,  453. 

Plain,  433. 

Praline,  446. 

Pudding  Glace,  449. 

Strawberry,  I,  444. 

Strawberry,  II,  444. 

Vanilla,  I,  442. 

Vanilla,  II,  443. 
Ice  Creams  and  Ices,  Fancy,  435- 
459. 

Angel  Parfait,  451. 

Baked  Alaska,  448. 

Biscuit  Tortoni,  in  Boxes,  458. 

Bombe  Glace,  452. 

Burnt  Walnut  Bisque,  446. 

Cafe  Parfait,  451. 

Cardinal     Mousse,     Iced     Ma- 
deira Sauce,  456. 

Chocolate  Mousse,  455. 

Cocoanut      Naples,      Sauterne 
Sauce,  456. 

Coffee  Mousse.  454. 

Delmonico  Cream,  with  Angel 
Food,   450. 

Demi-Glace  aux  Fraises,  457. 

Flowering  Ice  Cream,  457. 

Frozen  Charlotte  Glacee,  459. 

Frozen  Orange  Souffle,  458. 

Frozen  Soufflee  Glace,  459. 

Ice  a  la  Margot,  456. 

Icebergs,  437. 

Manhattan  Pudding,  451. 

Maple  Parfait,  455. 

Maraschino  Ice,  436. 

Mazarine,   457. 

Mousse  Marron,  455. 

Nesselrode  Pudding.  453. 

Noisette  Bombe,  452. 

Orange  Delicious,  454. 

Pineapple  Mousse,  455. 

Plombi&re  Glace,  457. 

Strawberry  Mousse,   454. 

Sultana     Roll,     with     Claret 
Sauce,  451. 

University   Pudding,   450. 

Violet  Ice  Cream,  448. 


Ice  Cream  Cake,  517. 
Ice  Cream  Candy,  538. 
Ice  Cream  Frosting,  528. 
Ices,  433. 

Crgme  de  Menthe,  437. 

Cup  St.  Jacques,  435. 

Currant,  436. 

Frappe,  433. 

Lemon,  435. 

Maraschino,  436. 

Orange,  435. 

Pomegranate,  436. 

Punch,  433. 

Punch,  Cardinal,  440. 

Punch,  German,  441. 

Punch,  riollandaise,  440. 

Punch,  Lenox,  441. 

Punch,  Roman,  442. 

Punch,  Victoria,  441. 

Raspberry,  I,  436. 

Raspberry,  II,  436. 

Raspberry  and  Currant,  436. 

Sherbet,  433. 

Sherbet,  Canton,  437. 

Sherbet,  London,  442. 

Sherbet,  Milk,  437. 

Sorbet,  433. 

Sorbet,  Apricot,  438, 

Sorbet,  Italian,  438. 

Sorbet,  Pineapple,  438. 

Sorbet,  Sicilian,  438. 

Strawberry,  I,  436. 

Strawberry,  II,  436. 

Water,  433. 
Imperial  Cake,  523. 

Cookies,  488. 

Soup,  122. 

Sticks,  145. 
India  Curry,  229. 

East,  Salad,  337. 
Indian  Bread,  58. 

Pudding,  390. 

Pudding,  Mock,  394. 
Ingredients,  Measuring,  25. 

to  Beat,  26. 

to  Combine,  26. 

to  Cut  and  Fold,  26. 

to  Stir,  26. 
Inkstains,  to  Remove,  589. 
Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange,  411. 
Irish       Stew,      with      Dumplings, 

205. 
Iron      Kettle      (New),      Care     of, 

590. 
Iron  Rust,  to  Remove,  589. 
Italian   Meringue,   452. 

Sorbet,  4.38. 
Ivory  Cream,  431. 


Jack's  Oyster  Ragout,  559. 
Jam,  Blackberry,  575. 

Raspberry,  575. 
Jams,  575. 
Jellied  Chicken,  253. 

Prunes,  421. 

Vegetables,  385. 

Walnuts,  421. 
Jellies,  572. 


INDEX 


633 


Jelly,  Apple,  573. 

Apricot  and  Wine,  421. 

Aspic,  382. 

Bag,  to  Make,  573. 

Barberry,  574. 

Blackberry,  574. 

Cider,  419. 

Coffee,  419. 

'Crab  Apple,  573. 

Cranberry,  572. 

Currant,  574. 

Currant  and  Raspberry,  574. 

Damson,  575. 

Glasses,  in,  420. 

Glasses,  to  Cover,  573. 

Glasses,  to  Prepare,  573. 

Grape,  574. 

Grape,  Green,  575. 

Jumbles,  488. 

Kumquat,  419. 

Lemon,  418. 

Omelet,  106. 

Orange,  418. 

Orange,  in  Ambush,  430. 

Quince,  573. 

Raspberry,  574. 

Roll,  505. 

Russian,  420. 

Sandwiches,  553. 

Sauterue,  420. 

Venison,  575. 

Wine,  I,  419. 

Wine,  II,  420. 
Julienne  Soup,  116. 
Junket,  Caramel,  412. 

Ice     Cream,     with     Peaches, 
448. 


Kidney  Rolls,  223. 
Kidneys,  Lambs',  I,  222. 

Lambs',  II,  222. 

Veal,  a  la  Canfield,  231. 

Veal,  Broiled,  231. 
Knives,  Care  of,  588. 
Knofli,  92. 
Kohl-rabi,  280. 
Kola  Nut,  39. 
Kornettes,  493. 
Kornlet  Soup,  138. 
Kumquat  Jelly,  419. 


Lactose  (Milk  Sugar),  6. 
Lady  Fingers,  504. 
Lamb,  214. 

Barbecued,  224. 

Blanquette  of,  223. 

Breast  of,  225. 

Bretonne,  218. 

Casserole  of,  220. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and,  224. 

Chops,  Broiled,  215. 

Chops,  Pan  Broiled,  a  la  Lu- 
cullus.  376. 

Croquettes,  359. 

Crown  of,  219. 

Divisions  of,  214. 

Filling,  381. 


Lamb,    Fricassee  of,   with    Brown 
Gravy,  221. 

Kidneys  I,  222. 

Kidneys  II,  222. 

Leg  of,  215. 

Minced  on  Toast,  223. 

RechaufiEe  of,  224. 

Rissoles,  a.  I'Indienne,  381. 

Roast,  218. 

Saddle    of    I'Estragon    Sauce. 
219. 

Salmi  of,  224. 

Scalloped,  223. 

Stock,  109. 

Yearling,  214. 
Lard,  8. 
Larding,  23. 
Lattice  Potatoes,  314. 
Leek  and  Potato  Soup,  139. 
Leeks  on  Toast,  295. 
Legumen,  2. 
Legumens,  281. 
Lemonade,  42. 

Pineapple,  42. 
Lemon  Butter,  273. 

Cocoanut  Cream,  526. 

Filling,  525. 

Ice,  435. 

Jelly,  418. 

Pie  I,  469. 

Pie  II,  469. 

Pie  III,  470. 

Pie  IV,  470. 

Pie  V,  470. 

Pudding,  Steamed,  394. 

Queens,  519. 

Sauce  I,  406. 

Sauce  II,  406. 

Sauce  III,  406. 

Souffle,  396. 

Sticks,  477. 

Tartlets,  479. 
Lenox  Punch,  441. 
Lenten  Croquettes,  355. 
Lenten  Salad,  336. 
Lettuce,  294. 

and  Cucumber  Salad,  327. 

and  Radish  Salad,  327. 

and  Tomato  Salad,  3^8. 

Dressed,  327. 

Salad,  331. 

Sandwiches,  550. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  124. 
Levulose  (Fruit  Sugar),  6. 
Lily  Cake,  515. 
Lime  Water,  10. 
Lincoln  Croquettes,  361. 
Listerine,  591. 
Liver  and  Bacon,  207. 

Braised,  208. 

Broiled,  207. 

Calf's,     Stuffed    and    Larded, 
208. 
Livers,  Chickens',  with  Bacon,  255, 

Chickens',  with  Curry,  254. 

Chickens',  Sauted,  253. 
Lobster,  156. 

a  I'Am^ricaine,  190. 

&  la  Delmonico,  560. 


634 


INDEX 


Lobster  &  la  Muisset,  190. 

a  la  Newburg,  560. 

and  Musbrooms,  Fricassee  of, 
188. 

and  Oyster  Filling,  188. 

and  Oyster  Ragout,  188. 

Bisque,  133. 

Butter,  273. 

Buttered,  187. 

Canapg,  554. 

Chowder,  144. 

Cocktail,  186. 

Cream  I,  365. 

Cream  II,  365. 

Croquettes,  358. 

Curried,  187. 

Cutlets,  358. 

Devilled,  187. 

Farci,  187. 

Fried,  186. 

Live,  Baked,  189. 

Live,  en  Brochette,  190. 

Live,  to  Broil,  189. 

Live,  to  Split,  189. 

Plain,  186. 

Salad  I,  342. 

Salad  II,  342. 

Salad  III,  342. 

Sandwicbes,  55. 

Sandwicbes    a    la    Boulevard, 
551 

Sauce*  I,  274. 

Sauce  II.  275. 

Sauce  III,  173. 

Scalloped,  187. 

Stuffed,  a  la  B^cbamel,  189. 

Timbales  I,  364. 

Timbales  II,  364. 

to  Open,  157. 

to  Select,  157. 
Loin  or  Kidney  Cbops,  214. 
London  Sberbet,  442. 
Luncbeon  Menus,  594-597. 

Rolls,  61. 

Macaroni,  85. 

a  la  Milanaise,  92. 

ft  ritalienne,  91. 

Baked,  91. 

Baked,  witb  Cbeese,  91. 

Boiled,  90. 

Italian  Style,  91. 

Oysters  and,  183. 

Soup,  114. 

Timbales,  363. 

witb  Tomato  Sauce,  91. 

witb  Wbite  Sauce,  90. 
Macaroon  Cream,  424. 

Dust,  to  Prepare^  587 

Ice  Cream,  447. 
Macaroons,  533. 

Almond,  533. 

Nut,  495. 
Mace,  14. 
Mac6doine,  Pudding  a  la,  423. 

of   Vegetables,   a   la  Poulette, 
308. 

Salad.  331. 
Mackerel,  Baked,  167. 


Mackerel,  Mayonnaise  of,  386. 
Madeira  Sauce,  Iced,  456. 
Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter,' 273,  312. 

d'Hotel  Potatoes,  312. 
Malaga  Boats,  478. 

Salad,  339. 
Manhattan  Pudding,  451. 
Maple  Fondant,  545. 

Parfait,  455. 

Sugar  Candy,  542. 

Sugar  Cream  Frosting,  529. 

Sugar  Frosting,  529. 
Maraschino  Ice,  436. 
Margarin,  8. 
Marguerites  I,  493. 

II,  493. 
Marinate,  bow  to,  323. 
Marmalades,  576. 

Grape,  576. 

Orange  I,  576;  II,  576. 

Orange  and  Rhubarb,  577. 

Quince,  576. 
Marrow  Bone,  8. 
Marsbmallow  Cake,  516. 

Frosting,   531. 

Paste,  526. 

Pudding  a  la  Stanley,  432. 
Marsbmallows,  Toasted,  422. 
Martin's  Specialty,  371. 
Maryland  Biscuit,  77. 

Chicken,  249. 

Croquettes,  360. 
Mayonnaise  Dressing  I,  326. 

Dressing  II,  326. 

Dressing  (Cream),  327 

Green,  327. 

Hot,  278. 

of  Mackerel,  386. 

Potato,  327. 

Ravigote,  344. 

Red,  327. 

Tomato,  336. 
Mazarine,  457. 
Measure,  bow  to,  25. 
Measuring  Butter,  Lard,  etc.,  25. 

Dry  Ingredients,  25. 

Liquids,  25. 
Meat,  191. 

Composition  of,  195. 

Effect     of     Temperature     on 
Cooking  of,  194. 

Glaze,  587. 

Table     Showing     Composition 
of,  195. 
Melon  Rind,  Preserved,  582. 
Melons,  bow  to  Prepare,  for  Serv- 
ing, 567. 
Menus  for  Breakfast,  Lunches,  and 

Dinners,  592-603. 
Meringue,  Apple,  413. 

Creole  Kisses.  481. 

Florentine,  476. 

Glac^es  or  Kisses,  480. 

I,  480. 

II,  480. 

III,  480. 
Italian,  452. 
Musbrooms,  481. 
Nut,  480. 


INDEX 


635 


Meringue  Panach^es,  481. 

Peach,  413. 
Meringues  for  Pies,  Puddings,  and 

Desserts,  479-481. 
Mexican  Jelly  Salad,  witli  Tomato 

Mayonnaise,  335. 
Milk,  9. 

and  Water  Bread,  54. 

Composition  of,  9, 

Condensed,  9. 

Frosting,  529. 

Malted,  9. 

Sherbet,  437. 

to  Scald,  586. 

Toast  I,  68. 

Toast  II,  68. 

why  it  Sours,  9. 
Mince  Meat,  English,  472. 

Meat   (without  Alcoholic  Liq- 
uor), 472. 

Meat  I,  471;  11,471. 

Pie,  Mock,  472. 

Pies,  470. 
Mineral  Matter,  192. 

Waters,  4. 
Mint  .Julep,  42. 

Sauce,  276. 
Mints  Cream.  546. 
Minuten  Fleisch,  228. 
Mirrors   and    Windows,    to    Wash, 

588. 
Mocha  Cake,  503. 

Cakes,  518. 

Cakes,  Walnut,  513. 

Frosting.  518,  531. 

Souffle,  397. 
Mock  Almonds,  146. 

Bisque  Soup,  140. 

Cherry  Pie,  472. 

Crabs.  371. 

Indian  Pudding,  394. 

Mince  Pie,  472. 

Terrapin,  262. 

Turtle  Soup,  127. 
Moisture.  15. 
Molasses  Candy.  537. 

Candy,  Velvet,  537. 

Cookies,  485. 

Cookies.  Soft,  186. 

Pound  Cake,  520. 

Sauce.  407. 
Mollusks.  Bivalve,  155. 
Mont  Blanc,  425. 
Monte  Carlo  Salad,  341. 
Moonshine  Cake.  503. 
Moulded   Chicken,    Sauterne   Jelly, 
387. 

Fish,  Normandy  Sauce,  170. 

Salmon,  Cucumber  Sauce,  386. 

Snow,  412. 

Russian  Salad,  335. 
Mousse.  433. 

Cardinal,   with   Iced   Madeira 
Sauce,  456. 

Chicken.  374. 

Chocolate,  455. 

Coffee,  454. 

Marron,  455. 

jpiaeapple.  455. 


Mousse,  Spring,  384. 

Strawberry,  454. 

Sweetbread,  367. 
Mucilage,  7. 
Muffins,  Berkshire,  75. 

Berry  I  (without  Eggs),  72. 

Berry  II,  72. 

Graham  I,  73. 

Graham  II,  73. 

Grilled,  66. 

Health  Food,  67, 

Hominy,  66. 

Imperial,  67. 

Oatmeal,  73. 

Oatmeal,  Raised,  66. 

One  Egg,  I,  72. 

One  Egg   II,  72. 

Queen  of,  73. 

Raised,  65. 

Rice,  73. 

Rice,  Raised,  66. 

Rye,  I,  74. 

Rye,  II,  74. 

Twin  Mountain,  71. 

Zante,  77. 
Mulligatawny  Soup,  127. 
Mush,  Corn  Meal,  Fried,  88. 

Hominy,  Fried,  88. 

Oatmeal,  with  Apples,  87. 
Mushes,  Fried,  87. 
Mushroom  Caps,  Stuffed,  200,  250. 

Sauce,  Brown,  I,  268. 

Sauce,  Brown,  II,  268. 

Soup,  124. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  124. 
Mushrooms,  282. 

a  I'Algonquin,  306. 

a  la  Sabine,  305. 

Allamande,  306. 

Baked,  in  Cream,  305. 

Broiled,  305. 

Sauted,  305. 

Stewed,  304. 

Stewed,  in  Cream,  304. 

Stuffed,  306. 

Under  Glass  I,  306. 

Under  Glass  II,  307. 
Mussels,  155. 
Mustard,  13. 

how  to  Mix,  587. 
Mutton,  215. 

Broth,  Scotch,  221. 

Chops,  215. 

Chops,  a  la  Slgnora.  216. 

Chops,  Breaded,  216. 

Chops,  Pan-broiled,  215. 

Curry,  220. 

Cutlets,  a  la  Maintenon,  217. 

English.  Southdown,  214. 

Flavor  of.  214. 

Leg,  Boiled,  217, 

Leg.  Braised,  218. 

Minced.  564. 

Myosin,  191. 

Saddle  of,  to  Carve,  219. 

Saddle  of,  with  Currant  Jelly 
Sauce,  219. 

Saddle  of,   with   Mint  Sauce, 
219. 


636 


INDEX 


Mutton,  Warning  over,  Ways  of, 
223. 
with  Currant  Jelly  Sauce,  564. 

Napoleons,  477. 
Neapolitan  Baskets,  416. 

or  Harlequin  Ice  Cream,  448. 
Nesselrode  Pudding,  453. 
Neufchatel  Salad  I,  337. 

Salad  II,  33T. 
Neuremburghs,  492. 
New  England  Brown  Bread,  58. 
New  York  Ginger  Bread,  520. 
Newport  Pound  Cake,  520. 
Newton  Tapioca,  391. 
Nile  Salad,  345. 
Noisette  Bomb,  452. 

Sandwiches,  552. 
Noodle  Shells,  198. 
Noodles,  147. 
Normandy  Sauce,  171. 
Norwegian  Prune  Pudding,  416. 
Nougat  Ice  Cream,  453. 
Nougatine  Drops.  541. 
Nut  and  Celery  Salad  T,  338. 

and  Celery  Salad  II,  338. 

and  Cheese  Sandwiches,  551. 

Bar,  540. 

Bars,  495. 

Cake,  Spice,  514. 

Cake,  White,  517. 

Cakes,  515. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  540. 

Cookies,  490. 

Macaroons.  495. 

or  Fruit  Filling,  525. 

Prune  Soufflg,  416. 

Salad,  338. 
Nutmeg.  14. 
Nuts,  Glac6,  547. 

Oatmeal  Cookies,  487. 

Muffins,  73. 

Muffins  (Raised),  66. 
Oil,  Animal,  8. 

Cod  Liver,  8,  152. 

Dressing  I,  325. 

Dressing  II,  326. 

in  Egg  Yolk,  8. 
Oils,  Essential,  where  Found,  8. 

Fixed,  where  Found,  8. 

Vegetable,  where  Found,  8. 
Okra,  280,  281. 
Oleomargarine,  8. 
i)llve  and  Almond  Sauce,  272. 

Sauce,  268. 
Omelet,     Almond,     with     Caramel 
Sauce,  108. 

Bread,  106. 

Cheese,  558. 

French,  107. 

Jelly.  106. 

Orange,  106. 

Oyster,  106. 

Plain,  105. 

Rich,  108. 

Robespierre,  108. 

Souffle,  379. 

gpaiiisb,  107. 


Omelet,  to  Fold  and  Turn,  106. 

with  Crofltons,   107. 

with  Meat  or  Vegetables,  106. 
Omelets,  105. 
One  Egg  Cake,  505. 
Onions,  295. 

Boiled,  295. 

French  Fried,  296. 

Fried,  296. 

Glazed,  296. 

in  Cream,  295. 

Juice,  to  Extract,  586. 

Pickled,  585. 

Scalloped,  295. 

Stuffed,  290. 
Opera  Caramel  Frosting,  530. 
Orangeade,  42. 

Orange    and   Rhubarb   Marmalade^ 
577. 

Baskets,  420. 

Cake,  508. 

Charlotte,  429. 

Custard,  413. 

Delicious,   454. 

Filling,  525. 

Fritters,  350. 

Frosting,  527. 

Ice,  435. 

Ice  Cream,  445. 

Jelly,  418. 

.Telly  in  Ambush,  430. 

Marmalade  I,  576. 

Marmalade  II,  57C. 

Mint  Salad,  339. 

Omelet,  106. 

Peel    (Candied),  547. 

Pekoe  Ice  Cream,  454. 

Puffs,  395. 

Salad,  338,  417. 

Sauce,  269. 

Sauce  (Pudding),  407. 

Sticks,  477. 

Trifle,  427. 
Oranges,    Ways   of    Preparing   foi 

Serying,  568. 
Ornamental  Frosting  I,  532. 

Frosting  II,  532. 
Ossein,  191. 

Ox  Joints.  Braised,  211. 
Oxalic  Acid,  Care  with,  590. 
Oxtail  Soup.  117. 
Oyster  and  Grape  Fruit  Salad,  344. 

and  Macaroni  Croquettes,  357. 

Bisque,  133. 

Cocktail  I,  180. 

Cocktail  II,  180. 

Cocktail  III.  180. 

Crabs •&  la  Newburg,  357. 

Crabs,  Bouch6es  of,  369. 

Crabs,  Fried,  369. 

Force-meat,  149. 

Gumbo,  131. 

Omelet,  106. 

Plant  (Salsify),  Creamed,  296. 

Rarebit,  562. 

Sandwiches,  551. 

Sauce,  272. 

Soup,  130. 

Soup,  Amster<3ai»  Style,  130, 


INDEX 


637 


Oyster  Soup,  French,  130. 

Stew,  129, 

Stuffing,  166. 

Toast,  183. 
Oysters,  155. 

a  la  Astor,  182. 

a  la  Ballard,  181. 

a  la  D'Uxelles,  559. 

a  la  Somerset,  357. 

a  la  Thorndike,  559. 

and  Bacon,  184. 

and  Macaroni,  183. 

Broiled,  183. 

Creamed,   182. 

Devilled,   .368. 

Fancy  Roast,  181. 

Fricassee  of,  181. 

Fried.  184. 

Fried  in  Batter,   184. 

Fried,  Piiiladelphia  Relish,  185. 

in  Brown   Sauce,   182. 

on    Half    Shell,    179. 

Panned,  181. 

Raw,   179. 

Roasted,   180. 

Sauted,  184. 

Savory,  182. 

Scalloped,   183. 

to  Block  Ice  for,  180. 

to  Clean,  156. 

to  Open,  156. 

Palm  Leaves,  477. 
Parfait,   Angel,   451. 

Cafe,   451. 

Maple,  455. 
Parisian   French   Dressing,   323. 

Sweets,  536. 
Parker  House  Rolls,  58. 
Parmesan,  Cousommg.  128. 

Pate  a  Choux,  l28. 
Parsley,  to  Chop,  586. 
Parsnip  Fritters,  297. 
Parsnips,  297. 

with  Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  297. 
Partridge,  241. 
Paste,  Chopped,  464. 

Entire  Wheat,  465. 

Plain,   460,  463. 

PuflP,   460,   461. 

Quality,  465. 

guick,  46.3. 

Quick  Puflf,  463. 

with  Lard,  464. 
Pastry.  460. 

Bag,  to  Make,  501. 

Desserts,  475-479. 
Pate  a  Choux,  148. 

a  Choux.  Parmesan,  148. 
pates,  Consomm6  aux,  129. 
Patties,  379. 

Dresden,   .380. 

Russian,  380. 
Patty  Shells,  462. 
Pea  Soup,  137. 

Soup,  Split,  138. 

Timbales,  298. 
Peas,  297. 

Boiled,  297. 


Peas,  Creamed,  298. 
Peach  Canapes,  565. 

Crusts,  478. 

Custard,  413. 

Pie,  472. 

Tapioca,  391. 
Peaches,  Baked,  571. 

Brandied,  581. 

Canned,  578, 

Pickled,  Sweet,  583. 
Peanut  Cookies,  490. 

Nougat,  540. 
Peanuts,  Salted,  536. 
Pear  Chips,  580. 

Salad,  340. 
Pears,  Baked,  571. 

Canned,  576, 

Pickled,  Sweet,  583. 
Pecans,  Salted,  536. 
Pectic  Acid,  7. 
Pectin,  7. 
Pectose,  7. 
Pectosic  Acid,  7. 
Pepper,  Black,  13, 

Cayenne  Capsicum,  13. 

White,  13, 
Pepper  and  Grape  Fruit  Salad,  340, 
Peppercorns,  13, 
Peppermints,  544, 
Peppers,  Red,  Canned,  581. 

Stuffed,  I,  298. 

Stuffed,  II,  298. 

Sweetbreads  in,  372. 
Persillade  Potatoes,  313. 
Petit  Four,  502, 

Pepper  Pot,  127. 
Philadelphia  Ice  Cream,  433. 
Piano  Keys,  to  Clean,  590. 
Pickled  Onions,  585. 
Pickles,  Chopped,  584. 

Cucumber,  Ripe,  583. 

Cucumber,  Unripe,  584. 

Spanish,  585. 

Tomato,  Ripe,  583. 
Pickling,  582. 
Pies,  466-474. 

Apple,  I,  467. 

Apple,  II,  467. 

Beefsteak,  212. 

Blackberry,  467. 

Blueberry,  468. 

Chicken,  251. 

Chocolate,  508. 

Cocoanut,  507, 

Cottage,  212. 

Cranberry,  468. 

Cream,  468. 

Cream,  I,  507. 

Cream,  II,  507. 

Currant,  468. 

Custard,  469. 

Date,  469. 

Lemon,  I,  469. 

Lemon,  II,  469. 

Lemon,  III,  470. 

Lemon,  IV,  470. 

Lemon,  V,  470. 

Mince,  470. 

MiDce  Meat.  I,  471*. 


§38 


INDBX 


Pies,  Mince  Meat,  IT,  471. 

Mince  Meat,  English,  472. 

Mince    Meat     (wittiout    Alco- 
holic Liquet),  472. 

Mocl£  Cherry,  472. 

Mock  Mince,  472. 

Peach,  472. 

Prune,  473. 

Pumpkin,  474. 

Rhubarb,  473. 

Squash,  I,  473. 

Squash,  II,  474. 

Washington,  507. 
Pigeons,  241. 

Potted,  258. 

Stuffing  for,  259. 
Pigs'  Feet,  Broiled,  238. 

Feet,  Fried,  238. 
Pilaf,  Turkish,  I,  89. 

Turkish,  II,  89. 

Turkish,  III,  89. 

Russian,  90,  373. 
Pimento   (Allspice)    14. 

Timbales,  363. 
Pineapple  Bavarian  Cream,  430. 

Cream,  440. 

Frapp^,  438. 

Ice  Cream,  445. 

Lemonade,  42. 

Mousse,  455. 

Pudding,  412. 

Sorbet,  438. 
Pineapples,  Canned,  579. 
Pin  Wheel  Biscuit,  71. 
Piquante  Sauce,  268. 
Pistachio  Bisque,  447. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream,  453. 

Ice  Cream,  447. 

Paste,  526. 
Plain  Frosting,  527. 

Paste,  463. 
Planked  Beefsteak,  198. 

Chicken,  250. 

Eggs,  100. 

Haddock,  168. 

Shad  or  White  Fish,  167. 

Shad,  with  Creamed  Roe,  168. 
Plombi6re  Glace,  457. 
Plover,  242. 

Broiled  or  Roasted,  258. 
Poached  Eggs  h  la  Reine,  96. 

a  la  Tripe.  97. 

with  Clam  Soup,  131. 

with  Sauce  Bearnaise,  98. 
Polish  for  Hard  Wood  Floors,  590. 

Tartlets,  478. 
Pomegranate  Ice,  436. 
Pomona  Frapp^,  439. 
Pompano    Broiled    with    Fricassee 

of  Clams,  164. 
Poor  Man's  Pudding,  390. 
Pop-overs,  76. 

Graham,  77. 
Popped  Corn,  Sugared,  537. 
Pork.  235. 

Chops,  236. 

Chops,  with  Fried  Apples,  236. 

Roast,  236. 

Salt,  Fried  with  Codfish,  236. 


Pork,  Tenderloins  with  Sweet  Pota« 

toes,  236. 
Porter  Apples,  Canned,  578. 
Portiere  Poles,  how  to  Slip  Easily, 

591. 
Port  Wine  Sauce,  277. 
Potage  a  la  Reine,  121. 
Potato  and  Celery  Salad,  330. 

Apples.  317. 

Balls,  313. 

Balls,  Fried,  315. 

Balls,  Sweet,  318. 

Border,  311. 

Cakes,  319. 

Croquettes,  316. 

Croquettes,  French,  316. 

Curls,  816. 

Fritters,  316. 

Marbles,  315. 

Mayonnaise,  327. 

Nests,  314. 

Omelet,  311. 

Salad  I,  329. 

Salad  II,  330. 

Salad,  Hot,  330. 

Soup,  138. 

Soup,  Swiss,  139. 

Stuffing,  256. 
Potatoes  a  I'Antlers,  319. 

a  la  Hollandaise,  311. 

Anna,  313. 

au  Gratin,  319. 

Baked,  310. 

Baked  in  Half  Shell,  312. 

Boiled,  310. 

Brabant,  313. 

Chambery,  311. 

Chartreuse,  320. 

Composition  of,  309. 

Creamed,  319. 

Curried,  321. 

Delraonico,  319. 

Duchess,  312. 

en  Surprise,  317. 

Franconia,  312. 

French  Fried,  315. 

Hashed  Brown,  319. 

Hongroise,  313. 

Lattice,  314. 

liyonnaise,  I,  320. 

Lyonnaise.  II,  320. 

Maltre  d'Hotel,  312. 

Mashed,  311. 

Oak  Hill,  320. 

O'Brion,  315. 

Persillade,  313. 

Riced,  310. 

Sauted,  320. 

Scalloped,  311. 

Shadow,  Saratoga  Chips,  314. 

Shredded,  314. 

Somerset  Style,  315. 

Sweet,  310. 

Sweet,  au  Gratin,  318. 

Sweet,  Baked,  317. 

Sweet,  Balls,  318. 

Sweet,  Boiled,  317. 

Sweet,  Croquettes.  318. 

Sweet,  en  Brochette,  318. 


INDEX 


639 


Potatoes,    Sweet,    Georgian    Style, 
318. 
Sweet,  Glazed,  318. 
Sweet,  Mashed,  317. 
Sweet,  Southern  Style,  317, 
Sweet,  Warmed  over,  319. 
Sweet,  with  Pork  Tenderloins, 
236. 

White,  309. 
Poulette  Sauce,  308. 
Poultry  and  Game,  240-264. 

Giblets,  to  clean,  244. 

to  Cut  up,  243. 

to  Dress  and  Clean,  242. 

to  Select,  242. 

to  Stufif,  244. 

to  Truss,  244. 

Ways  of  Warming  over,  261. 
Pound  Cake,  520. 
Praline  Ice  Cream,  446. 
Pralines.  543. 

Preserved  Melon  Rind,  582. 
Preserving  Fruits,   577. 
Preserving,  Ways  of,  26. 

by  Antiseptics,  27, 

Canning,  26. 

Drying,  27. 

Evaporation,  27. 

Exclusion  of  Air,  26. 

Freezing,  26. 

Pickling,  27. 

Refrigeration,  26. 

Salting,  27. 

Smoking,  27. 

Sugar,  26. 
Pressed  Beef  Flank,  205. 
Prune  Almond  Cake,  516. 

Almond  Filling,  516,  526. 

Norwegian  Pudding,  416. 

Pie,  473. 

Whip,  414. 
Prunes,  Jellied,  421. 

Stewed,  572. 
Pudding  a  I'Adrea,  431. 

a  la  Macedoine,  423. 

Amber,  422. 

Apple,  Bread  and  Butter,  393. 

Apple,  Steamed,  308, 

Apple  Tapioca,  301,  • 

Apricot  Souffle,  396, 

Bangor,  394. 

Blueberry,   Steamed,   399. 

Bread,  392. 

Bread  and  Butter,  393. 

Cabinet,  424. 

Cerealine,  390. 

Chestnut   Souffle,  398. 

Chocolate,  395. 

Chocolate  Bread,  393. 

Chocolate  Rice  Meringue,  398, 

Chocolate  Souffle,  397. 

Chocolate,  Steamed,  400. 

Cold  Cabinet,  424. 

Columbian,  424. 

Corn,  392. 

Cottage,  395. 

Cracker  Custard,  393. 

Cranberry,  Steamed,  399. 

Custard  Souffle,  396. 


Pudding,  English  Plum,  I,  404. 

English  Plum,  II,  404. 

Fig,  I,  403;   II,  403. 

French  Easter,  432. 

French  Fruit,  403. 

Frozen,  I,  449;    II,  449. 

Fruit  Souffle,  397. 

Ginger,  399. 

Glace,  449. 

Graham,  401. 

Harvard,  400. 

Hunter's,  403. 

Indian,  390. 

Lemon  Souffle,  396. 

Lemon  Steamed,  394. 

Marshmallow    a    la    Stanley, 
432. 

Marshmallows,  Toasted,  422. 

Mocha  Souffle,  397, 

Mock  Indian,  394. 

Moulded  Snow,  412. 

Nesselrode,  453, 

Newton  Tapioca,  391, 

Norwegian  Prune,  416. 

Orange  Puffs,  395. 

Peach  Tapioca,  391. 

Pears  Sauted,  Chocolate  Sauca 
418. 

Pineapple,  412. 

Poor  Man's,  390, 

Rebecca,  411. 

Rice,  390. 

Royal  DiDlomatic,  430. 

Scalloped  Apples,  392. 

Snow,  I,  422  ;   II,  422. 

Snowballs,  401. 

Spanish  Souffle,  398. 

St.  .Tames,  401. 

Strawberry  Cottage,  395. 

Suet,  402. 

Swiss,  400. 

Tapioca  Custard,  391. 

Thanksgiving,  I,  402. 

Thanksgiving,  II,  402. 

Tipsy,  413. 
Pudding  Sauces,  406-410. 
Puddings,  Hot,  390-405. 
Puff  Paste,  461. 

Paste,  to  Bake,  462. 
Puffs,  Breakfast,  77. 

Orange,  395. 

Raspberry.  477. 
Pulled  Bread,  146. 
Pumpkin  Pie,  474. 
Pumpkins,  300. 
Punch,  433. 

Cardinal,  440. 

Champagne,  44. 

Cider,  45. 

Claret,  42. 

Club,  44. 

Fruit,  I,  43. 

Fruit,  II,  43. 

Fruit,  HI,  43. 

Fruit,  IV,  43. 

German,  441. 

Ginger,  44. 

Hollandaise,  441. 

Lenox,  441. 


640 


INDEX 


Punch,  Roman,  442. 

Victoria,  441. 
Purges,  109. 

QUAHAUGS,   156. 
Quail,  240,  241. 

Breast  of,  Lucullus,  376. 

Broiled,  258. 

Pies,  381. 

Roast,  258. 
Queen  Cake,  519. 

Fritters,  352. 

Muffins  of,  73. 
Quenelles,  150. 
Quick  Cake.  508. 

Paste,  464. 

Puff  Paste,  463. 
Quince  Honey,  577. 

.Telly,  573. 

Marmalade,  576. 
Quinces,  Baked,  571. 

Canned,  579. 

Radishes,  299. 
Raised  Doughnuts,  81. 

Hominy  Muffins,  66. 

Oatmeal  Muffins,  66. 

Rice  Muffins,  66. 

Waffles,  81. 
Ramequins  Souffles,  377. 

Sweetbreads  of,   371. 
Range,  Care  of,  after  Frying,  588, 

Set  and  Portable,  17. 
Rarebit,  Oyster,  562. 

Tomato,  563. 

Welsh,  I.  562. 

Welsh,  II,  562. 
Raspberry  and  Currant  Ice.  436. 

and  Currant  Preserve,  581. 

Ice  I,  436. 

Ice  II,  436. 

.Tarn,  575. 

.Telly,  574. 

Puffs,  477. 

Whip,. 414. 
Rattan  Furniture,  to  Remove  Dust 

from,  591. 
Ravioli,  92. 
Rebecca  Pudding.  411. 
Red  Peppers,  Canned,  581. 
Reptiles,  159. 

Frogs,  159. 

Terrapin,  159. 
Rhode  Island  Chowder,  143. 
Rhubarb,  Canned,  579. 

Pie,  473. 

Sauce,  572. 
Ribbon  Cake,  513. 
Rice,  a  la  Riston,  89.. 

and  Meat,  Casserole  of,  224. 

and  Tomato  Croquettes,  356. 

Boiled,  88. 

Compote  of.  with  Peaches,  377. 

Compote  of,   with   Pears,   378. 

Croquettes,   Sweet.   356. 

Croquettes  with  Jelly,  356. 

Croustades  of.   378. 

Griddle  Cakes  1,  79. 

Qriddl«  CakM  II,  78. 


Rice  Muffins,  73. 

Muffins,  Raised,  66. 

Pudding,  390. 

Sauce,  276. 

Steamed,  88. 

Timbales,  363. 

to  Wash,  88. 

WafBes,  80. 

with  Cheese,  89. 
Riced  Potatoes,  310. 
Rissoles,  379. 

Filling  for,  379. 

Lamb  of,  a  I'Indienne,  381 
Rissoto  Creole,  90. 
Roasted  Oysters,  180. 
Roasting,  20. 
Rolls,  Coffee,  63. 

Fruit,  71. 

Kidney,  223. 

Luncheon,  61. 

Parker  House,  58. 

Salad  or  Dinner,  59. 

Swedish,  60. 

Sweet  French,  60. 
Roman  Punch,  442. 
Roulettes,  Chestnut,  355. 
Royal  Custard,  147, 
Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding,  430. 
Royal  Fans,  489. 
Royal  Soup,  121. 
Rules  for  Testing  Fat  for  Frying, 

21. 
Rum  Cakes,  with  Rum  Sauce,  388. 
Rusks,  French,  61. 

Zweiback,  61. 
Russian  Cutlets,  373. 

Jelly,  420. 

Patties,  380. 

Pilaf,  90. 

Salad,  331. 

Salad,  Moulded,  335. 

Sandwiches,  553. 

Sauce,  278, 

Tea,  34. 
Rye  Biscuit,  56, 

Bread,  57. 

Drop  Cakes,  81. 

Flakes,  86, 
•  Gems,  74. 

Muffins  I,  74. 

Muffins  II,  74. 

Sabyon  Sauce,  409. 
Saddle  of  Lamb,  I'Estragnon  Sauce, 
219. 

of  Mutton,  with  Currant  Mint 
Sauce,  219. 
Sago,  6. 

Soup  with  Veal,  122. 
Salad  a  la  Russe,  324. 

Asparagus.  329. 

Banana.  338. 

Berkshire,  in  Boxes,  345. 

Bolivia.  330. 

Brazilian,  340. 

Celery  and  Cabbage.  329. 

Celery,  Dressed,  329, 

Cheese,  337. 

Clieeae  and  Currant,  337. 


INDEX 


641 


Salad,  Cheese  and  Olive,  337. 
Chicken,  I,  344. 
Chicken,  II,  344. 
Chicken  and  Oyster,  346. 
Chicken,  Individual,  in  Aspic, 

345. 
Chicken,  Lenox,  387. 
ChifEonade,  333. 
Corn,  329. 

Cottage  Cheese,  I,  336. 
Cottage  Cheese,  II,  336. 
Crab  and  Tomato,  343. 
Cracker  and  Cheese,  336. 
Cucumber,  328. 
Cucumber  Baskets,  328. 
Cucumber  Cups  with  Lettuce, 

328. 
Cucumber  with'  Tomato,  328. 
De  .Johns,  340. 
East  India,  337. 
Egg,  I,  336. 
Egg,  II,  336. 

Fish,  with  Cucumbers,  343. 
Fruit,  I,  417. 
Fruit,  n,  417. 
Fruit,  French,  339. 
Fruit,  with  Wine  Dressing,  417. 
Game,  340. 

Grape  Fruit  and  Celery,  341. 
Harvard,  347. 
Hindoo,  333. 
Hungarian,  339. 
Lenten,  336. 
Lettuce,  331. 

Lettuce  and  Cucumber,  327. 
Lettuce  and  Radish,  327. 
Lettuce  and  Tomato,  328. 
Lettuce,  Dressed,  327. 
Lobster,  I,  342. 
Lobster,  II,  342. 
Lobster,  III.  342. 
Macedoine,  331. 
Malaga,  339. 
Mexican    .Telly    with    Tomato 

Mayonnaise,   336. 
Monte  Carlo,  341. 
Neufchatel,  I,  337. 
Neufchatel,  II,  337. 
Nile,  345. 
Nut,  338. 

Nut  and  Celery,  I,  338. 
Nut  and  Celery,  II,  338. 
Orange,  338,  417. 
Orange  Mint.  339. 
Oyster  and  Grape  Fruit,  344. 
Pear,  340. 

Pepper  and  Grape  Fruit,  340. 
Potato,  I,  330. 
Potato,  II,  330. 
Potato  and  Celery,  330. 
Potato,  Hot,  330. 
Rolls  or  Dinner,  59. 
Russian,  331. 
Russian,  Moulded,  335. 
Salmon,  341. 

Salmon,  h  la  Martin,  344. 
Sardine,  341. 
Scallop  and  Tomato,  343. 
Shrimp,  341. 


Salad,  Spinach,  335. 

Sticks,  60. 

String  Bean,  329. 

Sweetbread  and  Celery,  347. 

Sweetbread  and  Cucumber,   I. 
346. 

Sweetbread  and  Cucumber,  II, 
346. 

Swiss,  345. 

Tomato  and  Cheese,  334. 

Tomato  and  Cucumber,  333. 

Tomato  and  Horseradish,  332. 

Tomato  and  Watercress,  333. 

Tomato  Ciboulettes,  333. 

Tomato,  Frozen,  334. 

Tomato  Jelly,  334. 

Tomato,  Stuffed,  I,  332. 

Tomato,  Stuffed,  II,  332. 

Tomato,  Stuffed,  German  Style, 
332 

Tomato,    Stuffed    with    Pine- 
apple, 332. 

Waldorf,  339. 

Watercress  and  Cucumber,  328. 

Watercress,  Dressed,  328. 

Wiersbicks,  333. 
Salad  Dressing,  Boiled,  I,  324. 

Boiled,  II,  325. 

Chicken,  325. 

Club  French,  324. 

Cream,  I,  324. 

Cream,  II,  324. 

Curry,  324. 

French,  323. 

German,  325. 

Mayonnaise  I,  326. 

Mayonnaise  II,  326. 

Mayonnaise  Cream,  327. 

Oil,  I,  325. 

Oil,  II,  326. 

Parisian  French,  323. 
Salad  Dressings,  322. 
Salads,  322. 

Salmon,    a    la    Martin,    RavIgOte 
Mayonnaise,  344. 

Boiled.  162. 

Box,  177. 

Croquettes,  358. 

Cutlets,  358. 

Force-Meat,  149. 

Moulded,      Cucumber      Sauce, 
386. 

Salad,  341. 

Soup,  141. 
Salsify    (Oyster  Plant),   Creamed, 
296. 

Fritters,  296. 
Salt,  to  Prevent  Lumping,  587. 
Salted  Almonds  I,  535. 

Almonds  II,  536. 

Peanuts,  536. 

Pecans,  536. 
Salts,  5. 
Sandwiches,  549. 

Anchovy,  550. 

Bfead  and  Butter  Folds,  549. 

Brown  Bread,  552. 

Cheese  and  Anchovy,  551. 

Cheese  Wafer,  553. 


41 


642 


INDEX 


Sandwiches,  Chicken,  550. 

Chicken,  Halibut  of,  172. 

Club,  552. 

Colonial,  552. 

Egg,  550. 

Fruit,  552. 

German,  553. 

Ginger,  552. 

Ham,  Chopped,  550. 

Ham,  Sliced,  550. 

Jelly,  553. 

Lettuce,  550. 

Lobster,  551. 

Lobster,  a  la  Boulevard,  551. 

Noisette,  552. 

Nut  and  Cheese,  550. 

Oyster,  551. 

Rolled  Bread,  549. 

Russian,  553. 

Sardine,  550. 

Windsor,  551. 
Saratoga  Chips,  314. 
Sardine  Canapes,  554. 

Creamed,  561. 

Salad,  341. 

Sandwiches,  550. 
Sardines  Fried  in  Batter,  351. 

Grilled,  561. 

with  Anchovy  Sauce,  561. 
Sauce  h  I'ltalienne,  269. 

Allemande,  266. 

Anchovy,   274. 

Anchovy  Butter,  273. 

Apple,  570. 

Apple,  Spiced,  570. 
.  Aurora,  169. 

Bearnaise,  98,  275. 

Bechamel,  271. 

Bechamel,   Yellow,   271. 

Bercy,  172. 

Bordelaise,  196 

Bread,  276. 

Brown,  I.  267. 

Brown,  II   (Espagnole),  268. 

Brown   (Mushroom),  I,  268. 

Brown    (Mushroom),    II,    268, 
363. 

Caper,  267. 

Cauliflower,  276. 

Celery,  272. 

Champagne,  269. 

Cherry,  199. 

Chestnut.  260. 

Chili.  583. 

Cranberry,  272. 

Cream,  266. 

Creole,  278. 

Cucumber,  I.  272. 

Cucumber,  II,  272,  387. 

Cumberland,  259. 

Currant  .Telly,  276. 

Currant  Mint,  219. 

Drawn  Butter,  267. 

Egg,  I,  267. 

Egg,  II,  267.  • 

Espagnole,  200. 

I'Estragnon,  219. 

Figaro,  275. 

Finlste,  270. 


Sauce,  Hollandaise,  I,  274. 

Hollandaise,  II,  274. 

Horseradish,  I,  275. 

Horseradish,  II,  275. 

Horseradish  Hollandaise,  274. 

Hot  Mayonnaise,  278. 

Hot  Tartare,  277. 

Lemon  Butter,  273. 

Lobster,  I,  274. 

Lobster,  II,  275. 

Lobster,  III,  171. 

Lobster  Butter,   273. 

Maitre  d'HOtel   Butter,   273. 

Mint,  276. 

Normandy,  171. 

Olive,  268. 

Olive  and  Almond,  272. 

Orange,  269. 

Oyster,  272. 

Piquante,  268. 

Port  Wine,  277. 

Pou'.ette,    308. 

Rhubarb,  572. 

Rice,  276. 

Russian,  278. 

Shrimp,  267. 

Silesian,  163. 

Soubise,  267. 

Sour  Cream,  260. 

Spanish,  271,  385. 

Supreme,  273,  375. 

Tartar,  273. 

Tartare,  277. 

Tomato,     I,     without     Stock, 
269. 

Tomato,  II,  270. 

Tomato,  III,  270. 

Tomato  and  Mushroom,  270. 

Tomato  Cream,  271. 

Trianon,  275. 

Tyrolienne,  278. 

Veloute,  266. 

Victor  Hugo,  197.      .^ 

Vinaigrette.  277. 

White,  I,  266. 

White,  II,  266. 

White,  Thick.  266. 

White,  Thin,  266. 
Sauces,  Fish  and  Meat,  265. 
Sauces,  Pudding,  406-410. 

Apricot,  410. 

Brandy,  409. 

Caramel  Brandy,  410. 

Chocolate,  396,  408,  418,  443. 

Coffee,  443. 

Cream,  I.  407. 

Cream,  II.  407. 

Creamy,  I,  408. 

Creamy,  II.  408. 

Currant  Jelly,  574. 

Foamy,  I.  408. 

Foamy,  II,  408. 

Fruit,  453. 

Hard,  404,  409. 

Lemon,  I.  406. 

Lemon,  II,  406. 

Lemon,  III,  406. 

Liquids,  404. 

Madeira,  Iced.  456. 

Maraschino,  351. 


INDEX 


643 


Sauces,  Pudding  (continued). 

Mocha,  o97. 

Molasses,  407. 

Orange,  407. 

Rum,  388. 

Sabyon,  409. 

Sterling,  409. 

Strawberry,  408. 

Vanilla,  406. 

Wine,  409. 

Yellow,  I,  407  ;   II,  407. 
Sausages,  238. 
Sauted  Bananas,  571. 

Fillets  of  Beef,  a  la  Moelle,  199. 

Fillets  of  Beef,  Cherry  Sauce, 
199. 

Fillets  of  Beef,  Stuffed  Mush- 
room Caps,  200. 

Mignon  BMllets  of  Beef,  Figaro 
Sauce,   199. 

Mignon  Fillets  of  Beef,  Tria- 
non Sauce,  199. 

Pears,  Chocolate  Sauce,  418. 
Sauteing,  22. 
Sauterne  Cup,  45. 

Jelly,  420. 
Savory  Oysters,  182. 
Scallop  and  Tomato  Salad,  343. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  133. 

Stew,  130. 
Scallops,  156. 

Devilled.  369. 

Fried,  180. 
Scones,  Cream,  70. 
Scotch  Broth,  221. 

Soup,  117. 

Wafers,  486. 

Woodcock,  563. 
Scottish  Fancies,  487. 
Scrambled  Eggs,  98. 

Country  Style,  99. 

with  Anchovy  Toast,  99. 

with  Calf's  Brains,  557. 

with  Sweetbreads,  557. 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  98. 
Scrod,  Broiled,  163. 
Seed  Cakes,  490. 
Shad,  154. 

Planked,  167. 

Planked,    with    Creamed    Roe, 
168. 

Roe,   Baked,   169. 

Roe,  Broiled,  1^3. 

Roe,  Fried,  174.      ' 

Roe,  with  Celery,  370. 
Shellfish,  Bivalve  Mollusks,  155. 

Clams,  156. 

Crabs,  158. 

Crustaceans,  156. 

Lobsters,  156. 

Oyster  Crabs,  158. 

Oysters,   155. 

Scallops,  156. 

Shrimps,  158. 
Sherbet,  433. 

Lorldon.  442. 

Milk.  437. 
Short  Cake,  Fruit.  84. 

Strawberry,  I,  8.^ 


Shor^  Cake,  Strawberry,  II,  84, 

Strawberry,  Rich,  84. 
Shrimp  Salad,  341. 

Sauce,  267. 
Shrimps,  158. 

a  la  Newburg,  560. 
Sicilian  Sorbet,  438. 
Silesian,  163. 
Sink  Drain,  Care  of,  588. 
Smelts,  153. 

a  la  Langtry,  169. 

a  la  Meniere,  173. 

Baked  and  Stuffed,  168. 

Fried,  173. 

Fried  and  Stuffed,  174. 
Snowballs,  401. 

Cake,  515. 

Pudding  I,  422. 

Pudding  II,  422. 
Soda  Bicarbonate,  52. 
Sodium  Chloride,  5,  192. 
Sole  a  la  Bercy,  172. 
Sorbet,  433. 
Soubise  Sauce,  267. 
Souffle,  Apricot,  396. 

au  Rhum,  378. 

Cheese,  377. 

Chestnut,  398. 

Chicken,  262. 

Chocolate,  397. 

Coffee,  424. 

Custard,  396. 

Egg,  103. 

Frozen,  Glace,  459. 

Froain  Orange,  458. 

FruWr397. 

Lemon,  396. 

Mocha,  397. 

Nut  Prune.  416. 

Omelet,  379. 

Ramequins,  377. 

Spanish,  398. 

Vegetable,  307. 
Scuffled  Crackers,  145. 
Soups,  109. 

a  la  Soubise,  126. 

Almond,  125. 

Appledore,  138. 

Artichoke,  Cream  of,  136. 

Asparagus,  123. 

Bean,  Baked,  135. 

Bean,  Black,  135. 

Bean,  String,  126. 

Binding  of,  113. 

Bisque,  Mock,  141. 

Bisques,  110, 

Bortchock,  116. 

Bouillon,  109-114. 

Bouillon,  Clam,  129. 

Bouillon,  Iced,  114. 

Bouillon,    Tomato,    with    OySi 
ters,  114. 

Cauliflower,  Cream  of,  125. 

Celery,  I.  136. 

Celery,  II,  137. 

Celerv.  Cream  of.  123. 

Chestnut  Purge,  126. 

Chicken,  120. 

Chicken,  with  Wine,  118. 


644 


INDEX 


Soups  (continued). 

Clam  and  Oyster,  131. 
Clam  and  Tomato  Bisque,  132. 
Clam  and  Chicken  Frapp6, 132. 
Clam,  Cream  of,  132. 
Clam,  with  Poached  Eggs,  131, 
Clearing  of,  112. 
Consomme,  109,  128. 
Consomm6  k  la  Royal,  128. 
Consomm6  au  Parmesan,  128. 
Consomme  aux  Pates,  129. 
Consommg,  Bortchock,  129. 
Consomme,  Clam,  132. 
Consomme,  Claret,  129. 
Consomme  Colbert,  128. 
Consomme  d'Orleans,  129. 
Consomme  Princess,  129. 
Consomme     with    Vegetables, 

129. 
Corn,  137. 
Crab,  126. 
Cream,  109. 
Creole,  115. 
Cucumber,  125. 
Dinner,  116. 
Duchess,  121. 
Garnishings  and  Force-meats, 

145-150. 
Farina,  120. 
French  White,  119. 
Halibut,  137. 
Hygienic,  120. 
Imperial,  122. 
Julienne,  116. 
Kornlet,  138. 
Leek  and  Potato,  139. 
Lettuce,  Cream  of,  124. 
Lima  Beans,  Cream  of,  136. 
Lobster  Bisque,  133. 
Macaroni,  114. 
Making,  110. 
Mock  Turtle,  127. 
Mulligatawny,  127. 
Mushroom,  124. 
Mushroom,  Cream  of,  124. 
Ox-tail,  117. 
Oyster,  130. 

Oyster,  Amsterdam  Style,  130. 
Oyster,  French,  130. 
Oyster,  Gumbo,  131. 
Pea,  137. 
Pea,  Split,  138. 
Philadelphia  Pepper  Pot,  127. 
Potage  a  la  Reine,  121. 
Potato,  138. 
Potato,  Swiss,  139. 
Purees,  109. 
Royal,  121. 
Salmon,  141. 
Scallop,  Cream  oT,  133. 
Scotch,  117. 
Spinach,  123. 
Spring,  120. 
Squash,.  141. 
St.  Germain,  122. 
Stock,   Brown,    109-113. 
Stock,  Lamb,  109. 
Stock,  White,  109. 
Stock,  White,  I,  118. 


Soups  (continued). 

Stock,  White,  II,  118. 

Stock,  White,  III,  118. 

Tapioca  Wine,  141. 

Tomato,  140. 

Tomato,  Cream  of,  140. 

Tomato,  with  Stock,  115. 

Turkey,   120. 

Turkish,   115. 

Veal  and  Sago,  122. 

Vegetable,  139. 

Watercress,  Cream  of,  124. 

White,  119. 

with  Fish  Stock,  129-134. 

with  Meat  Stock,   113-129. 

without  Stock,   135-141. 
Sour  Cream  Sauce,  260. 
Spaghetti,  92. 

Timbales,  363. 
Spanish  Cake,  510. 

Cream,  423. 

Omelet,  107. 

Pickles,  585. 

Sauce,  271. 

Sauce,  for  Salmi  of  Duck,  264. 

Souffle,  398. 
Spice  Cookies,  486. 
Spiced  Currants,  582. 
Spinach,  299. 

k  la  Bechamel,  300. 

Boiled,  299. 

French  Style,  300. 

Puree  of,  300. 

Salad,  335. 

Soup,  123. 
Sponge  Cake,  502. 

Cake,  Cheap,  501. 

Cake,  Chocolate,  511. 

Cake,  Cream,  501. 

Cake,  Hot- Water,  501. 

Drops,  504. 

Fritters,  353. 

Strawberry,  429. 
Spring  Mousse,  384. 
Spun  Sugar,  548. 
Squash,  300. 

Biscuits,  67. 

Hubbard,  300. 

Marrow,  300. 

Pie  I,  473 

Pie  II,  474. 

Soup,   141. 

Summer,  Boiled,  301. 

Summer,  Fried,  I,  301. 

Summer,  Fried,  II,  301. 

Turban,  300. 

Winter,  Baked,  I.  301. 

Winter,  Baked,  II,  .301. 

Winter.  Boiled,  301. 

Winter,  Steamed,  301. 
Starch,  5. 

Corn,  6. 

Dextrine,  5. 

Dextrose,  6. 

Glycogen,  6. 

Test  for,  5. 
Sterling  Sauce,  409. 
Stew,  Beef,  with  Dumplings.  205. 

Irish,  with  Dumplings,  221. 


INDEX 


645 


stew,  Oyster,  129. 

Scallop,  130. 
Stewed  Prunes,  572, 
Stewing,  19. 
St.  Germain  Soup,  122. 
Sticks,  Bread,  50. 

Cheese,  145. 

Imperial   (in  Rings),  145. 

Salad,  60. 
St.  James  Pudding,  401. 
Strawberries,  Ilow  to  Prepare,  for 

Serving,  567. 
Strawberry  Baskets,  362. 

Bavarian  Cream,  430. 

Cottage  Pudding,  395. 

Filling,  524. 

Ice  I,  436. 

Ice  II,  436. 

Ice  Cream  I,  444. 

Ice  Cream  II,  444. 

Mousse,  454. 

Preserves,  580. 

Sauce,  408. 

Short  Cake  I,  83. 

Short  Cake  II,  84. 

Short  Cake,  Rich,  84. 

Sponge,  429. 

Whip,  414. 
String  Bean  Salad,  329. 
String  Bean  Soup,  126. 
Stuffed  Clams,  370. 

Dates  I,  535. 

Dates  II,  535. 

Peppers  I,  298. 

Peppers  II,  298. 

Tomato  Salad  I,  332. 

Tomato  Salad,  II,  332. 

Tomato  Salad,  German  Style, 
332. 

Tomatoes,  303. 
Stuffing  I,  247. 

II,  247. 

Chestnut,  255. 

Chestnut,  for  Goose,  256. 

Fish,  I,  164. 

Fish,  II,  165. 

for  Chicken  in  Aspic,  384. 

for  Mutton,  218. 

for  Potted  Pigeons,  259. 

for  Smelts,  108. 

Oyster,  166. 

Oyster,  for  Turkey,  255. 
■    Peanut,  for  Duck,  257. 

Potato,  for  Goose,  256. 

Poultry,   244. 

Turkey,  Swedish  Style,  255. 
Succotash,  291. 
Sucrose,  6. 
Suet,  8,  192. 

Pudding,  402. 
Sugar,  6. 

Barley,  7. 

Boiled,  for  Confections,  544. 

Cane  (Sucrose),  6. 

Changes  in  Cooking  of,  7. 

Composition  of,  6. 

Fruit  (Diabetin),  6, 

Fruit  (Lcvulose),  6. 

Grape  (Glucose),  Q. 


Sugar,  Milk  (Lactose),  6. 

Spun,  548. 

to  Caramelize,  586. 

to  Heat,  573. 
Sugared  Popped  Corn,  537. 
Suitable  Combinations  for  Serving. 

592. 
Sultana  Caramels,  543. 

Roll,  with  Claret  Sauce,  451. 
Sunshine  Cake,  502. 
Supreme  of  Chicken,  367. 

Sauce,  273. 
Swedish  Bread,  63. 

Rolls,  60. 

Tea  Braid,  64. 

Tea  Ring  I,  64. 

Tea  Ring  II,  64. 

Timbales,  362. 

Wafers,  492. 
Sweetbreads,  232. 

a  la  Mont  Vert,  371. 

a  la  Napoli,  233. 

a  la  Poulette,  233. 

and  Bacon,  234. 

and  Celery  Salad,  347. 

and  Cucumber  Salad  I,  346. 

and  Cucumber  Salad  II,  346. 

and  Mushroom  Timbales,  366. 

Broiled,  232. 

Country  Style,  233. 

Creamed,  233. 

Creamed,  and  Chicken,  233. 

Cutlets  of,  a  la  Victoria,  361. 

Cutlets  with  Asparagus  Tips, 
2.34. 

Epigrams  of,  361. 

Eugenie,  Braised,  234. 

in  Peppers,  372. 

Larded,  233. 

Mousse,   367. 

Ramequins,  371. 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  234. 
Sweet  Pickled  Peaches,  583. 

Pickled  Pears,  583. 
Swiss  Pudding,  400. 

Salad,  345. 
Swordfish,  Broiled,  163. 

Tables,  Composition  of  Cereals,  85, 

Composition  of  Fish,  161. 

Composition  of  Meats,  195. 

Composition  of  Vegetables,  280, 

for  Boiling  Sugar  for  Confec- 
tions, 544. 

for  Cooking  Cereals,  86. 

of  Measures  and  Weights,  27, 

Time  for  Cooking,  28-31. 
Tapioca,  6. 

Apple,  Pudding,  391. 

Cream,  415. 

Custard  Pudding,   3dl. 

Newton,  Pudding,  391. 

Peach,  Pudding,  391. 

Wine  Soup,  141. 
Tartar  Sauce,  273. 
Tartare  Sauce,  277. 
Tartlets,  Almond,  478. 

Lemon,  479. 

Polisti,  478» 


646 


INDEX 


Tarts,  478. 

Banbury,  475. 

Calv6,  479. 
Tea    32 

'  and  Coffee  Pots,  Care  of,  589. 

and  Coffee  Stains,  to  Remove, 
590. 

Black,  32. 

De  John's,  34. 

Five  o'cloclj,  34.. 

Green,  32. 

Iced,  34. 

Maliing  of,  34. 

Russian,  34. 

Wellesley,  34. 
Terrapin,  159,  175. 

a  la  Baltimore,  175. 

a  la  Marvland,  175. 

Calf's  Head,  a  la,  210. 

Mock,  262. 

to  Cook,  175. 

Washington,  176. 
Thanksgiving    Dinner,    Menu    for, 
600. 

Pudding  I,  402. 

Pudding  II,  402. 
Theine,  33. 
Theobromine,  40. 
Third  Bread,  56. 
Timbale  Iron,  to  Heat,  362. 
Timbales,  Chicken,  I,  365. 

Chicken,  II,  366. 

Chicken,  III,  366. 

Egg,  104.        ^ 

Forming  of,  ii62. 

Halibut,  I,  364. 

Halibut,  II,  364. 

Ham,  366. 

Lobster,  I,  364. 

Lobster,  II,  364. 

Macaroni,  363. 

Pea,  298. 

Pimento,  363. 

Rice,  363. 

Spaghetti,  363. 

Swedish,  362. 

Sweetbread     and     Mushroom, 
366. 
Tipsy  Pudding,  413. 
Toast,  Brown  Bread,  Milk,  68. 

Cream,  68. 

Cream,  Tomato,  68. 

Dry.  67. 

German.  69. 

Milk,  I,  68  ;  II,  68. 

Oyster,  183. 

Water,  68. 
Toasted  Marshmallows,  422. 
Toasted  Salt  Fish,  178. 
Tomato  and  Celery  Relish,  583. 
and  Cheese  Salad,  334. 
and  Cucumber  Salad,  333. 

and  Horseradish  Salad,   332, 

and  Mushroom  Sauce,  270. 

and  Watercress  Salad,  333. 

Bouillon  with  Oysters,  114. 

Ciboulettes,  333. 
Cream   Sauce,  271. 
Cream  Toast,  68. 
Fritters,  351. 


Tomato  Jelly  Salad,  334. 

Pickle,  Ripe,  583. 

Preserve,  582. 

Rarebit,  563. 

Salad,  Frozen,  334. 

Sauce  I,  without  Stock,  269. 

Sauce  II,  270. 

-Sauce  III,  270. 

Soup,  140. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  140. 

Soup,  with  Stock,  115. 
Tomatoes,  302.  , 

a  la  Creme,  302. 

Baked,  I,  303. 

Baked,  II,  303. 

Broiled,  302. 

Canned,  580. 

Devilled,  303. 

in  Aspic,  382. 

Scalloped,  302. 

Sliced,  302. 

Stewed,  302. 

Stuffed,  303. 

Stuffed  with  Pineapple,  332. 
Tongue,  Boiled,  207. 

Braised,  207. 

Breaded,  with  Tomato  Sauce, 
563. 

Calves',  210. 

Calves',  Sauce  Piquante,  210. 

in  Aspic,  383. 
Trianon  Sauce,  275. 
Tripe,  a  la  Creole,  210. 

a  la  Provenqale,  210. 

Batter  for,  209. 

Batter,  in,  209. 

Broiled,  209. 

Lyonnaise,  209. 

Where  Found,  192. 
Truffles,  283. 
Tumblers,  Care  of,  588. 
Turbot.  Little   (see  Halibut),  153. 
Turkey,  241. 

Boiled,  254. 

Gravy,  255. 

Minced,  263. 

Roast,  254. 

Roast,  with  Chestnut  Stuffing, 
255. 

Roast,    with    Oyster    Stuffing, 
255. 

Roast,   Scalloped,  263. 

Roast,   Soup,   120. 

Roast,  Swedish  Style,  Stuffing, 
255. 

to  Carve,  255, 

with  Chestnut  Gravy,  255. 
Turkish  Pilaf  I,  89. 

Pilaf  II,  89. 

Pilaf  III,  89. 

Soup,  115. 
Turnips,  304. 

Creamed,  304. 

Croquettes.  304. 

Mashed,  304. 
Tutti-Frutti,  581. 

Candy,  346. 
Twin  Mountain  Muffins,  71. 
Tyrolienne  Sauce,  278. 


INDEX 


647 


Unfermented  Bread,  56. 

Grape  Juice,  44. 
Union  Grill,  558. 
University  Pudding,  450. 
Uses  for  Stale  Bread,  69. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  I,  442. 

Croquettes    (Ice  Cream),   444. 

Ice  Cream  II,  443. 

Sauce,  406. 

Wafers,  487. 
Veal,  226. 

and  Sago  Soup,  122. 

Birds,  229. 

Blanquette  of,  231. 

Braised  Shoulder  of,  228. 

Chops,  Bavarian,  227. 

Croquettes,   359. 

Cutlets,    with    Brown    Sauce, 
226. 

English,  Meat  Pie,  228. 

Fricandeau,  229. 

Fricassee  of,  227. 

India  Curry,  229. 

Loaf  I,  230. 

Loaf  II,  230. 

Loin  of,  Jardini&re,  228. 

Minced,  on  Toast,  231. 

Minuten  Fleisch,  228. 

Ragout  of,  231. 

Roast,  229. 
Vegetable  Acids  and  Where  Found, 
12. 

Souffle,  307. 

Soup,  139. 
Vegetables,  280. 

a  la  Poulette,  308. 

Care  of,  281. 

Composition  of,  280. 

Cooking  of,  282. 

Curried,  307. 
Veloute  Sauce,  266. 
Velvet  Cake,  509. 

Candy,  Molasses,  537. 
Venison,  241. 

Cutlets,  260. 

Cutlets  with  Apples,  564. 

Jelly,  575. 

Roast  Leg  of,  260. 

Saddle  of,  260. 

Steak,  Broiled,  259. 

Steak,  Chestnut  Sauce,  259. 
Steak,      Sauted,      Cumberland 
Sauce,  2.59. 
Victor  Hugo  Sauce,  197. 
Victoria  Punch,  44i. 
Vinaigrette  Sauce,  277. 
Vinegar,  14. 
Vinegar  Candy,  538. 
Violet  Ice  Cream,  448. 
Virginia  Waffles,  80. 
Vol-au-vents,  379,  463. 
Wafers,  Almond.  494. 

Brandy,  494. 
English  Rolled,  L  494. 
English  Rolled,  II,  495. 
Kornettes,  493. 
Rolled,  404. 
Scotch,  486. 


Wafer,  Scottish  Fancies,  487. 

Swedish,  492. 

Vanilla,  487. 
Waffles,  80. 

Raised,  81. 

Rice,  80. 

Virginia,  80. 

with  Boiled  Cider,  80. 
Waldorf  Salad,  339. 
Walnut  Cake,  510. 
Walnuts,  Creamed,  543. 

Dipped,  546. 

Jellied,  421. 
Warming  over  Beef,  212, 

over  Fish,  176. 

over  Mutton  and  Lamb,  223. 

over  Potatoes,  319. 

over  Poultry  and  Game,  261. 

over  Veal,  231. 
Washington  Pie,  507. 
Water,  4,  192. 

Acidulated,  587. 

Alkaline  and  Mineral,  4. 

Apollinaris,  4. 

Boiled,  4. 

Distilled,  4. 

Hard,  4. 

Ice,  433. 

Lime,  10. 

Lithia,  4. 

Poland,  4. 

Saline,  4. 

Seltzer,  4. 

Soda,  4. 

Soft,  4. 

Sulphur,  4. 

Temperature  of,  4. 

Toast,  68. 

Vichy,  4. 
Watercress    and    Cucumber    Salad, 
328. 

Dressed,  328. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  124. 
Ways  of  Baking,  20. 

of  Boiling,  18. 

of  Boning,  24. 

of  Braising,  22. 

of  Cooking,  18. 

of  Cooking  Fish,  160. 

of  Egging  and  Crumbing,  22. 

of  Fricasseeing,  22. 

of  Frying,  20. 

of  Larding,  23. 

of  Preparing  Food  for   Cook- 
ing, 22. 

of  Roasting,  20. 

of  Sauteing,  22. 

of  Stewing,  19. 
Wedding  Cake  I.  522. 

Cake  II,  522. 
Welsh  Rarebit  I,  562. 

Rarebit  II,  562. 
Wheat,  47. 

Processes  of  Milling,  47. 
White  Bait  Garnish,  148. 

Corn  Cake,  75. 

Corn  Meal  Cake,  76. 

Fish,  153. 

Fish,  Planked,  167. 


648 


INDEX 


White  Fondant,  544. 

Mountain  Cream,  528. 

Nut  Cake,  517. 

Sauce  I,  200. 

Sauce  II,  266. 

Sauce,  Thiclc,  for  Cutlets  and 
Croquettes,  266. 

Sauce,  Thin,  266. 

Soup,  119. 

Soup,  French,  119. 

Soup  Stock,  109. 

Soup  Stock  I,  118. 

Soup  Stock  II,  118. 

Soup  Stock  III,  118. 
Wiersbick's  Salad,  333. 
Windsor   Sandwiches,  551. 


Wine  Cream,  417. 

Dressing, 

.Jelly  I,  419. 

.Telly  II,  420. 

Sauce,  409. 
Wintergreen  Wafers,  541. 

Yeast,  49. 

Fermentation,  49. 

Plant,  50. 
Yellow  Sauce  I,  407. 

Sauce  II,  40.7. 

Sauce,  Bechamel,  271. 
Yorkshire  Pudding,  202. 

ZiGAEAS  A  LA  RUSSE,  380. 


"  THOROUGHLY  RELIABLE 


Jf    THE  BEST  RESULTS  ARE  OBTAINED 
X  BY  USING 

Baker's 
Chocolate 


X 


3C 

a 
x 

s 


X 


Registered 
U.  S.  rat.  Office 


(Blue  Wrapper,  Yellow  Label) 

In  making  Cakes,  Pies»  Puddings, 
Frosting,  Ice  Cream,  Sauces, 
Fudges,  Hot  and  Cold  Drinks 

For  more  than  136  years  this 
chocolate  has  been  the  standard 
for  purity,  delicacy  of  flavor 
and  uniform  quality. 

57  Highest  Awards  in  Europe  and  America 

The  trade-mark,  "La  Belle  Chocolatiere," 
on  every  genuine  package.  A  beautifully 
illustrated  booklet  of  new  recipes  for 
Home  Made  Candies  and  Dainty  Dishes 
sent  free.     Drop  a  Postal  to 


Waiter  Baker  &  Co.  Ltd. 


Established  1780 


DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


aaXaaXaaaiKaXaaaaaAi^ 


Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 


■^ 


The  prudent 

housewife  avoids 

substitutes  made  of 


^<^//>^-^ 


alum  or  phosphate,  and  uses 

ROHAL 

BAKING 


,#■ 


Absolutely  Pure 

Made  from  Cream  of  Tartar  A 
derived  from  grapes         ^ 


^^^ 


FOSS' 

Pure  Flavoring 

Extracts 

r FRUITS  IN  LIQUID  FORM) 


Highest  Aivard,  Gold  Medal,  li 
Mass.   Charitable  Mechanic 
dissociation. 

Recommended  by 
L.  B.  Allyn,  Chemist 
Westfield  Board  of  Health 


These  extracts  are  used  and  recommended  at 
Miss  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery.  Isn't  this 
sufficient? 


Fruit  from  which  Foss'  Pure  Extract 
Lemon  is  made 


Fruit  from  which  Foss'  Pure  Extract 
Orange  is  made 


Schlotterbeck   &   Foss  Co. 

PORTLAND,  MAINE 
SOLD  BT  ALL  FIRST-CLASS  GROCERS 


Have  You  Tried  the  New 
Dessert? 


iksserts 


p 


o 


mm 


"IT 
TASTES 
GOOD" 


10<f    VANILLA    lp<t 

PREPARED  BY 

THE  JUNKET  FOLKS 

ChcHanseitslabomtory;  little  Ialls.NY. 


IT  LOOKS  GOOD  IT  TASTES  GOOD  IT  IS  GOOD 

Six  Flavors  :    Lemon,    Orange,    Vanilla, 
Almond,    Chocolate,    Raspberry 

Makes  a  delicious  dessert  or  a  smooth,  velvety  ice  cream 

Made  by 

THE  JUNKET  FOLKS 

CttR.  HANSEN'S  LABORATORY 
LITTLE  FALLS  ::  ::  ::  NEW  YORK 


"Choisa"  Ceylon  Tea 


I -lb.  Canisters 
70  Cents 

IjM 

K-lb.  Canisters 

l^^s 

40  Cents 

i^^^H 

We  trwite  comparison  Tviih  other  Teas  of  the  same  or 
higher  price 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 


Cor.  Tremont  and  Beacon  Streets  ) 


Copley  Square 
Coolidge  Corner 


I 


BOSTON 


BROOKLINE 


Veuve  Chaffard 
Pure  Olive  Oil 

Bottled  in  France 
in  Honest  bottles 


Full  Quarts 
Full  Pints. 
Full  Half-pints 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON 

Sole   Agents   for   the   United   States   and 
Canada 


A  Variety  for  Every  Occasion 


Biscuits 


THE  QUALITY  BISCUITS 
OF  AMERICA 


Over  400  Varieties— including 

Takhoma  Biscuit 

The  ideal  Sandwich  Cracker 

Golden  Flakes 

A  delightful  Pastry  Biscuit 
AT  ALL  LEADING  GROCERS 


JopsE-Y^iUBS  Biscuit (ompany 

Bakers  of  Sunshine  Biscuits 
BOSTON  NEW  YORK 


Chase  &  Sanborn's 
Teas  and  Coffees 
have  been  depend- 
able for  more  than 
fifty  years. 

Chase  &  Sanborn 

The  largest  Tea  and  Coffee 
Merchants  in  Amcric  a 

In  sealed,  air-tight 
packages 


^ing  3lrtl)ur 


We  do  not  claim  that  King  Arthur 
Flour  will  perform  MIRACLES,  but  we 
do  assert  that  you  will  get  better  results 
and  will  gain  a  larger  vision  of  the  pos- 
sibilities of  bread  making  if  you  use  it 


Absolutely  pure,  unbleached,  and  the  highest 

grade  possible  to  produce.     Why 

not  be  supremely  sure  ? 


Sands,  Taylor  &  Wood  Co. 

Boston,  Providence,  and  Worcester 


Would  You  Like  This  Recipe  Book? 

Contains  about  half  a  hundred  recipes  for  a  variety  of 
breads,  rolls,  buns,  muffins,  and  other  good  things  to  eat.  If 
you're  interested  in  baking,  write  for  a  copy  — free  on  request. 

THE  FLEISCHMANN  COMPANY 

701  Washington  Street  New  York,  N.  Y. 


CHOICE 

Ibouse  dfurni8bino6 

FOREIGN  and  DOMESTIC. 

TWrOULDS  of  Copper,  Tin  and  China.  Casse- 
roles, Salad  or  Lettuce  Crispers,  Mayonnaise 
Blenders.  Cook's  Knives,  Pallet  Knives,  Holly 
Cooking  Spoons.  Cutters  for  Vegetables,  Pastry, 
etc.  Ramikens,  Mushroom  Dishes,  Fireless 
Cookers,  Plate  'Warmers,  Breakfast  'Warmers. 
Coffee  Machines. 

HAQIC  COVERS  FOR  PASTRY 


Brushes 
Wooden  Ware 
Tin  Ware 


Aluminum  Ware 
Copper  Ware 
Enamel  Ware 


Fireplace    Furnishings,  Andirons,  Fenders,    Fire 
Sets,  Brushes,  and  Bellows. 

Institution,  Hotel,  and  Hospital  Supplies. 


B.  F.  MACY 

FORMERLY  OF 

F.  A.   WALKER  &  CO. 

The  Oldest  Kitchen  Furnishing  Store 
in  New  England. 

Importer—  Wholesale— Retail 

410  Boylston  St. 

203  Providence  St.    Near  Berkeley 

BOSTON,  MASS. 


i^jp^ 


%JiaS>^  \  Nolf  Do/^^'J^aX 


%^€ 


RECOMMENDED  and  USED  by 

Miss  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer 

and  many  others  interested  in 

PURE  FOODS 


•KftSOIsUTEty 


The  Best  Results 

can  only  be  obtained  when  the  Best 
Ingredients  are  used 

SLADE'S 

SPICES 

and  Specialties  are  best  and  most 
economical  to  use. 

The  International  Cooks  and  Pastry 
Cooks  Association  certifies  "We  use 
and  recommend  for  use  Slade's  Spices. 
We  find  them  superior  to  all  others." 

Prof.  AUyn  of  Westfield  has  certi- 
fied that  Slade's  Spices  and  Specialties 
are  absolutely  pure  and  excellent. 

Dr.  H.  W.  Wiley  approves  Slade^s 
Spices. 

INSIST  UPON  SLADE'S 
D.  &  L.  Slade  Co.,  Boston 


'pure' 

Extra  stboNC 
^f' LAV  OR  INC 


MISS  FARMER'S 
SCHOOL  OF  COOKERY 

THIRTY  HUNTINGTON  AVENUE 

BOSTON 
MASSACHUSETTS 

m 

Practise  Classes  in  all  branches  of  Cookery 

Table  Service  Courses 

Marketing  Courses 

Courses  in  Invalid  Cookery  arranged 
for  Nurses'  Training  Classes 

Demonstration  Lectures  given  before 
Women's  Clubs 

Special  Lessons 
El 

Prospectus  on  application 

m 

MISS  ALICE  BRADLEY,  Principal 


The  Boston  Cooking  School  uses  and  recommends  these  goods 

li)m'  M-g  3ellle$ 

ARE  PRONOUNCED  BY  A 
SCOTCH  EXPERT,  WHO  IS 
ACQUAINTED  WITH 
THE  PRODUCT  OF  ALL 
COUNTRIES,     TO     BE 

"Cfte  finest  in  m  mm" 

They  contain  no  Starch  Paste,  Gelatine 
or  Glue  Stock  for  stiffening.  No  Glu- 
cose or  *' Grape  Sugar"  for  "filling." 
No  Chemicals  for  coloring.  No  Pre- 
servatives to  prevent  fermentation.  They 
are  not  made  of  Refuse  Canning  Stock, — cores  and  skins, — 
but  of  Pure  Fruit  Juice,  true  to  name,  and  best  Refined  Sugar, 
and  Nothing  Else. 

males'..,* 

HOME  MADE 

Pre$eri)e$ 

are  made  from 
THE  best  TABLE 
FRUIT,  IN  ITS 

most  PERFECT 
CONDITION,    AND 

BEST  REFINED 
SUGARS 

/  use  no  bleaching  process  to  make  green  fruit  look  ivell. 

They  contain  no  coloring  matter  or  chemical  preservatives. 
They  are  ABSOLUTELY  PURE. 

«<Purity  in  materials,""  perfect  condition  in  fruit,"  "scrupulous 
care  in  their  preparation,"  have  made  them  the  world  over  The 
Standard    of    Excellence. 

IF  YOUR  GROCER  DOES  NOT  KEEP 
MY  GOODS,  SEND  FOR  PRICE  LIST  TO 

George  €.  males,  ncmon  gemrc,  mass. 


Dover  Sanitary  Sink  Pail 

WITH  STRAINING  COVER 

PATENTED  FEB.  22,  I916 


SPECIAL  FEATURES 

Feature  No.  i.  The  Cover  is  dished  or  funnel  shaped, 
with  suitable  perforations  for  straining  tea,  coffee,  in 
fact  separating  any  solids  from  liquids,  thereby  pre- 
venting all  waste  and  dirt  collecting  in  the  sink  and 
stopping  up  the  waste  pipes.  Simply  pour  through 
the  Cover  when  open  and  after  draining  close  Cover, 
and  all  solids  fall  back  into  Pail.  While  no  odor 
arises  from  the  Pail,  sufficient  air  is  admitted  through 
the  ventilation  holes  to  prevent  mould  and  decay. 

Feature  No.  2.  A  very  strong  and  practical  hinge  pre- 
venting Cover  from  breaking  off. 

Feature  No.  3.  A  handle  to  facilitate  the  raising  of  the 
Cover,  while  at  the  same  time  it  forms  a  strong  stop 
or  back  support  to  hold  the  Cover  horizontal  when 
used  as  a  strainer. 

GALVANIZED 

No.  5.   53^  qts.,  75  cents  each 
9"  diameter  by  7%"  high 

TRADE  DISCOUNT  ON  APPLICATION 

If  your  Dealer  does -not  have  it  on  sale,  send  us  75  cents  and  we 
will  forward  you  one,  transportation  paid. 

Dover  Stamping  and  Manufacturing  Co. 

380  PUTNAM  AVE.,   CAMBRIDGE,  MASS. 


^■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■^^^ 

I      The  Modern  Kitchen 

■  The  sanitary  kitchen  demands  above  all  a  sanitary  refrigerator 
J  arranged  to  be  iced  from  the  outside.  On  its  good  qualities 
I  depends  the  health  of  your  entire  family.     If  it  is  damp, 

■  foul  smelling  and  germ  producing  it  may  cause  serious  illness. 

I  McCRAY  Sanitary  Refrigerators 

I  are  used  in  the  most  exacting,  modern  diet-kitchen.    They  are  [used  by 

I  the  Pure  Food  Testing  Laboratories  of  the  United  States  Government 

m  and  also  in  use  in  Miss  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery. 

M  Call  or  telephone  us,  and  we  shall  gladly  furnish  you  with  additional 

B  information   regarding   McCray    refrigerators.     Send   for   our   catalog 

I  No.  92  describing  residence  refrigerators. 

I  McCray  Refrigerator  Company 

I  407  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

m  Telephone,  Back  Bay  5J40 

■  General  Office  and  Factory,  Kendallville,  Ind. 


r; 


k, 
% 


mti|ii3 


MIXING 
BOTTLE 

FOR  FRENCH  DRESSING 

A  beautiful  and  useful  example  of 
the  Glass  Engraver's  Art 

FILL  with  vinegar  to  the  line 
marked  **Vinegar";  add  oil 
to  the  line  marked^'Oil";  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  shake.  The 
resulting  French  Dressing  will 
be  perfect  and  it  will  keep  perfectly  until  the 
last  drop  is  used. 

This  charming  piece  of  crystal  art  is  seven  and  one-half  inches 
high  and  copper-wheel  engraved.  Made  in  shapes  and  designs 
ranging  in  price  from  $2.00  to  $6.00  and  sold  by  the  better  class 
of  dealers  in  most  cities. 

Write  today  for  our  handsomely  illustrated  book 
of  Gifts  in  Glass,  Cut,  Engraved,  and  Silver 
Mounted.     It   will   be   sent  free    on     request. 

T.    G.    HAWKES    &   CO. 

Corning,  New  York 


HAWKES 


For  Cooking  —  For  the  Table 


Choose 
California's 

Oranges  and  Lemons 


^Oranges 


Health" 


SUNKIST  Oranges  are  sound,  fully  ripe,  and  uniformly  good.  Only 
well-grown  oranges  with  good  keeping  qualities  are  packed  under 

that  name.   You  will  find  them  always  the  extra  choice  grade  of  the 

California  crop.  Sunkist 
are  practically  seedless 
and  full  of  delicious,  fla- 
vory  juice.  Sunkist  Or- 
anges are  the  universal 
choite  of  careful  house- 
wives and  chefs  every- 
where. Their  good 
quality  will  appeal  to 
you  particularly  for  use 
in  desserts,  salads,  short- 
cakes, and  for  table  use. 
Sunkist  come  in  several 
sizes  and  sell  at  varying 
prices.  Theycost  no  more 
than  ordinary  kinds. 
California  Sunkist  Lemons  are  uniformly  good.  They  are  fresh- 
picked  in  California  every  day  and  their  skins  are  clean  and  waxy. 

Use  them  for  garnishing 

and  with  tea.   Use  their 

juice  in  place  of  vinegar 

in  salads;  use  them  on 

fish,   and  .for   flavoring 

lemon    pie     and     cake. 

There  are  da'ly  uses  for 

these    uniformly    good, 

practically  seedless  lem- 
ons. They  make  house- 
keeping easier  in  a  score 

of  ways. 
When  you  buy  Sunkist 

Oranges  or  Lemons,  In 

box,   half-box  or  dozen 

quantities,  see  that  they 

are  delivered  to  y^u  in 

the    crisp    white   tissue 

wrappers  stamped  with  the  name  "Sunkist 

assurance  of  uniformly  good  quality. 

CALIFORNIA   FRUIT  GROWERS'  EXCHANGE 

A  Co-operative,  Non-profit  Organization  of  Sooo  Growers    Los  Angeles,  California 


"Lemons  for  Usefulness^* 

That  name  is  your 


WORKS    ON    COOKERY 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL,  COOK 
BOOK 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.  New  revised  edi- 
tion, with  130  illustrations.      i2mo.     %\.'^o  net. 

Miss  Farmer's  cook  book  is  undoubtedly  the  most  practical  and  serviceable 
work  of  its  kind.  This  new  edition  contains  125  additional  recipes  introduced 
in  logical  order,  making  in  all  21 17  thoroughly  tested  recipes,  from  the  simple 
and  economical  to  the  elaborate  and  expensive.  130  new  illustrations  in  half- 
tone have  been  introduced. 

The  best  cook  book  on  the  market.  — Woman's  World,  New  York. 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.  With  6  colored 
plates  and  over  200  illustrations  in  half-tone.  i2mo. 
^1.60  net, 

A  wealth  of  new  material,  the  result  of  experiments  in  the  author's  class- 
rooms, makes  this  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  "Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book."  Contains  over  eight  hundred  receipes  upon  all 
branches,  including  many  new  and  important  dishes. 

CHAFING  DISH  POSSIBILITIES 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.   i6mo.  $1.00  net. 

There  have  been  many  volumes  of  chafing  dish  recipes,  but  none  which  is 
more  appropriately  adapted  for  the  breakfast  or  lunch  table,  or  for  small  con- 
genial parties.     Every  feature  is  distinctly  new.  —  Boston  Herald. 

FOOD  AND   COOKERY   FOR  THE    SICK 
AND  CONVALESCENT 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.  With  sixty  illus- 
trations.    300  pages.    i2mo.    Cloth.    ^1.60  net. 

An  invaluable  book  for  those  whose  duty  it  is  to  care  for  the  sick,  and  of 
equal  importance  to  those  who  see  in  correct  feeding  the  way  of  preventing 
much  of  the  illness  about  us. 

A  real  cyclopedia  of  invalid  cookery.  —  The  Watchman,  Boston. 


LITTLE,  BROWN,  &  COMPANY,  I^^^^SS 


Make  your  cocoanut  dishes 
the  Dromedary  Way 

The  Dromedary  Way  is  the  quickest,  easiest 
and  most  economical  way.  None  of  the  labor 
and  all  of  the  flavor! 

Just  remove  cap  from  "Ever-Sealed"  package 
and  pour  out  the  moist  shreds  of  Dromedary 
Cocoanut,  every  bit  as  delicious  and  full 
flavored  as  if  just  grated  in  your  home.  No 
waste  because  first  rich  flavor  is  retained  until 
the  last  shred  is  used. 

THE    HILLS    BROTHERS    CO. 

Dept.  AA,  375  Washington  Street,  New  York 

Each  package  of 
Dromedary  Cocoanut 

contains  a  written 

guarantee  insuring  its 

freshness  and   goodness 

This  Cocoanut 

received  Gold  Medals, 

highest  awards  at 

San  Francisco 

and 

San  Diego  Expositions 


UlllUIfi 


MAGIC  COVERS 

for 
ROLLING  PIN  £^  BREAD  BOARD 


Magic 
Covers  are 
great  saving  of  time, 
strength,  and  material,  and 
are  neat,   durable,  and  effectual. 
By  their  use,  the  softest  dough  can  be 
handled    without    the    slightest    possibility    of 
sticking  to  moulding  board  or  rolling  pin.      One  set 
will  last  for  years  and  they  will  save  many  times  their  cost 
in  material  alone.     They  are  highly  recommended  by 
the  leading  schools  of  Domestic  Science.      Miss 
Farmer  says:    *'I  consider  Magic  Covers  a 
necessity  in  every  up-to-date  kitchen. 
They    are  used  in  all  my  class 
rooms     and     are    recom- 
mended in  special,  class 
and    demonstra- 
tion work." 


70  CENTS    THE   SET 

POSTPAID 


MAGIC  COVER  CO.,  Corinna,  Maine 


SILVA 
PUTZ 

A  perfect  Cream  Paste  Silver 
Polish.  The  modem,  up-to- 
date  cleaner  for  GOLD,  SIL- 
VER and  CUT  GLASS. 

Economical — Effective—' 
Harmless 

Absolutely  safe  to  use  on 
finest  Gold,  Silver,  and  Pre- 
cious Stones.  There  are  many 
Imitations.  Do  not  be  im- 
posed upon  by  taking  inferior 
brands.  Look  for  the  Red 
Cross  designs.  They  pro- 
tect you. 

American  Metal  Polish  Co. 


MEYERS' 

PUTZ 

CREAM 

A  white  liquid  metal  polish. 
For  cleaning  BRASS,  COP- 
PER, NICKEL,  ALUMI- 
NUM, ANDIRONS,  and 
AUTO  TRIMMINGS  Is 
unsurpassed. 

A  high-grade  polish,  free 
from  grit  and  acid.  Eco- 
nomical and  gives  a  quick, 
lasting  polish. 

There  is  no  other  so  good. 


Important  to  all  Mothers  of  Infants 

Where  there  is  a  baby,  Stork  Sheeting  is  not  a  luxury  but 
an  absolute  necessity,  because  it  promotes  comfort  for  the 
baby  and  is  a  great  labor  saver  for  the  mother. 


WATER-PROOF 


is  the  only  fabric  to  use  where  a  waterproof  fabric  is  required.  It  is  white,  soft, 
light,  pliable  and  durable.  Stork  Sheeting  is  easily  cleaned,  wiping  with 
warm  water  and  castile  soapsuds,  and  after  drying,  dusting  with  a  good  borated 
talcum  powder  makes  it  as  good  as  new. 

Stork    sheeting   is    absolutely   free 
from  rubber. 

For"  sale  by  all  first-class  Dry  Goods 
Dealers,  in  two  weights  and  widths. 

Send  for  illustrated    catalogues    of   our 
products,  of  interest  to  all  mothers. 


THE  STORK  COMPANY 

72  Broad  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 
Dept.  FB 


jST 


Lewandos 

AMERICAS  GREATEST 

Cleansers        Dyers        Launderers 


ESTABLISHED  1829 


BOSTON  SHOPS 

17  TEMPLE  PLACE         284  BOYLSTON  STREET 
248  HUNTINGTON  AVENUE 

LOCAL  DELIVERIES  BY  OUR  OWN  TRUCKS 
OTHER  SHOPS 


BROOKLINE  MASS 

I J 10  Beacon  Street 
CAMBRIDGE  MASS 

1274  Massachusetts  Avenue 
FITCHBURG  MASS  570  Main  Street 
FALL  RIVER  MASS  197  Bank  Street 
LOWELL  MASS  37  Merrimac  Square 
LYNN  MASS  22  Munroe  Street 

MALDEN  MASS        30  Pleasant  Street 
SALEM  MASS  187  Essex  Street 

SPRINGFIELD  MASS 

294  Bridge  Street 
WATERTOWN  MASS  I  Galen  Street 
WORCESTER   MASS 

J  Pleasant  Street 
WALTHAM   MASS  193  Moody  Street 


NEW   YORK 

348  Madison  Avenue  (near  41st  Street) 
801  Madison  Avenue  (near  67th  Street) 
ALBANY  N  Y  75  North  Pearl  Street 
PHILADELPHIA  SHOP 

1633  Chestnut  Street 
PROVIDENCE  R   I 

137  Mathewson  Street 
NEWPORT  R  I  231  Thames  Street 
PORTLAND  MAINE 
529  Congress  Street  (with  Rines  Bros.) 
BRIDGEPORT  CONN  213  State  Street 
NEW  HAVEN  CONN  123  Church  Street 
WATERBURY   CONN 

24  East  Main  Street 
HARTFORD  CONN      32  Pratt  Street 


TELEPHONE    IN    ALL    SHOPS 


"You  Can  Rely  On  Lewandos" 


^  ®  w   -  w   ^ 

t>  ®  5  ©  1^ 


ass's  H*s  c 

^JSr-xHcSdJ      r« 


PAGE  &  SHAW 

The  Candy  of  Excellence 

Is  made  ^th  the  in- 
tention tKat  it  shall 
advertise  itself.  Except 
for  a  few  small  adver- 
tisements like  tKis,  all 
the  advertising  money- 
is  put  into  the  quality 
of  the  candy.  That  is 
why  Pa^e  &  Shaw  is 
well  known  though 
seldom  advertised. 

What  you  say  about  our  candy  is 
our  real  advertisement. 


K  ARO  on  griddle  cakes  and  waffles  always 
makes  a  hit  with  the  children,  and  as  the  prac- 
tical housewife  knows,  that  is  only  one  of  the 
many  uses  for  this  famous  Syrup. 

Try  K ARO  as  a  spread  for  bread— for 
home  candy  making,  and  in  cooking  where- 
ever  a  pure  sweetening  is  required. 

The  CORN  PRODUCTS  COOK  BOOK 

contains  many  proven  recipes— send  for  your 
copy  to-day ;  free  upon  request. 


Com  Products  Refining  Company 

17  Battery  Place,  New  York 


Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 

is  first  in  Quality,  Quantity,  and  Economy,  and 


The  Yellow  Package 


KNOX 

CpARKLIM/: 

CHARtE's"'B.  KNOX  CC 


■f: 


N 


is  put  up  in  two  packages.  No.  1  Plain  Spar- 
kling and  No.  3  Sparkling  Acidulated.  The 
Plain  Sparkling  is  the  Yellow  package,  and  is 
the  original  unflavored,  unsweetened  gelatine. 
The  Sparkling  Acidulated  is  the  Blue  pack- 
age. Both  packages  contain  two  envelopes  of 
Sparkling  Granulated  Gelatine,  and  an  en- 
velope containing  a  tablet  of  vegetable  color- 
ing and  make  the  same  quantity — four  pints 
of  jelly.  The  only  difference  between  the  two 
packages  is  that  the  Acidulated  package  con- 
ains  an  extra  envelope  of  Lemon  Flavoring 
which  takes  the  place  of  lemon  juice  and  af- 
fords the  housewife  a  ready  prepared  flavoring. 
This  flavoring  is  not  mixed  with  the  gelatine, 
but  packed  in  a  separate  envelope,  thus  leav- 
ing it  to  the  housekeep>er  to  use  it  or  not,  as  she  desires.  The  Acidulated  is 
called  the  "Busy  Housekeeper 's "  package,  because  the  jelly  is  so  easily  and 
quickly  made.  All  that  is  added  is  water  and  sugar,  and  the  dessert  is  ready 
to  mold.  €|  Gelatine  Dishes  are  taking  an  important  part  in  dietetics,  and 
physicians  are  ordering  them  very  largely  in  the  diet  of  their  patients.  The 
careful  practitioner,  however,  recommends  only  a  wholesome,  colorless,  odor- 
less, and  tasteless  gelatine,  which  is  found  in 

Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 

and 

Knox  Acidulated  Gelatine 


The  Blue  Package 


A  great  sunlit  factory  equipped  with  espe- 
cially designed  machinery  does  all  the  work 
of  Knox  Gelatine  —  hands  never  touch  it  until 
the  housewife  herself  opens  the  package. 
Each  package  is  guaranteed  to  please  or 
money  refunded. 

Knox  Gelatine  is  used  and  endorsed  by 
Miss  Fannie  M.  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery 

Send  for  our  FREE  recipe  book  "Dainty 
Desserts  for  Dainty  People "  showing  how 
to  use  Knox  Gelatine  in  making  Desserts, 
Salads,  Jellies,  Puddings,  Ice  Creams, 
Sherbets,   Candies,  etc. 

Charles  B.  Knox  Gelatine  Co.,  Inc.,  Johnstown,  N.  Y. 


OLD  GRIST  MILL 


HEALTH  FOODS 

Old  Grist  Mill  Flour  of  the  EntireWheat 

Used  by  the  best  cooks  for  Health  Bread.  Bolted  so  as  to 
take  out  coarser  particles. 

Old  Grist  Mill  Wheat  Meal 

Ground  on  stone  mills.  All  of  the  healthful  properties  of 
the  wheat  preserved. 

Old  Grist  Mill  Rye  Flakes 

Made  from  Selected  Rye  Grain.  The  natural  laxative 
qualities  of  Rye  make  this  a  very  desirable  Health  Food  — 
besides  making  a  delicious  breakfast. 

Old  Grist  Mill  Rolled  Wheat 

Made  from  the  Best  White  Winter  Wheat.  It  combines 
all  the  virtues  of  the  whole  wheat  and  our  method  of  pre- 
paring same  makes  it  a  delicious  Breakfast  Food.  - 

Old  Grist  Mill  Wheat  Coffee 

When  coffee  hurts  you,  give  it  up  and  drink  the  OLD 
GRIST  MILL.  For  20  years  the  best  coffee  substitute  on 
the  market  —  flavor  as  good  as  the  best  coffee  without  the 
after  effects.      Try  it.      Send  for  free  sample. 


POTTER  &  WRIGHTINGTON 
BOSTON 


Have  you  ever  made  Ivory  Soap  Paste? 

(,  M    'HERE  are  many  purposes  for  which  it  is  unequaled  and  it  is 
/    the  most  economical  and  convenient  way  to  use  Ivory  Soap  for 
general  cleaning-  and  laundry  work. 

With  Ivory  Soap  Paste  you  can  clean  leather  and  other  materials  which  should  not  be 
touched  by  soap  suds.  And  it  is  much  more  effective  than  bar  soap  for  such  things  as  furni- 
ture, marble  and  porcelain  bathroom  fixtures,  metal  ware,  woodwork,  gilt  frames  and  rugs. 

The  advantages  of  using  the  paste  where  the  cake  might  answer  the  purpose  are:  The  paste 
makes  rich  thick  suds  that  cleanse  thoroughly.  It  makes  suds  quickly,  saving  time.  The 
suds  can  be  made  with  lukewarm  as  well  as  hot  water  where  heat  would  injure  the  article  to 
be  cleaned.     And  the  paste  goes  farther  than  bar  soap. 

You  will  find  the  recipe  for  making  Ivory  Soap  paste  on  the  inside  of  the 
wrapper  and  also  in  the  booklet  "Unusual  Uses  of  Ivory  Soap".  This 
booklet  contains  over  100  tested  recipes  for  tlie  safe  cleaning  of  just  the 
things  that  ordinarily  cause  the  most  trouble.  You  may  have  a  copy  post- 
paid by  return  mail  if  you  will  send  your  name  and  address  to  The  Procter  A 
Gamble  Co..  -Dept.  BC.  Cincinnati.  O. 


IVORY  SOAP 


99^%  PURE 


»t  rL©AtS 


"foill^r?^^}:^^  RESOURCES  LIBRARY 


LOANTERl^Pir^^^^^^^^C 


7  DAYS 


mDG^642-253 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 


DUE  AS  STAMPFn  RCI  r^yy 


f  E6  t  3  1998 
f^EC'D  BIOS 


fWV^6'98-J0All 


--.oooo^^^^^^^^ 


