Class  JZ2i   I 
Book^B^? 

Copyright^0 

COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


Bread  Maying 


AND 


Bread  Baling 


Embracing  Selections  in  'Pastry, 

General  Cooking,  Canning,  Preserving,  Pickling, 

Jelly  Making  and  Candy  Making 


JHCinnfe  E.  {Brothers 


MINNEAPOLIS 
1915 


Copyrighted 

1915 

By  the  Author 


,•' 


JAN  18  1916 
©CI.A420394 


£ 


4 


Prefi 


ace 


&fP*  HE  RECIPES  contained  in  this  booklet,  are  nut  in- 

tlL  tended  for  the  graduate  of  culinary  art,  or  the  one 
Mho  plies  domestic  science  on  a  scientific  principle. 

This  little  book  in  its  simple  and  unpretentious  way  is 
dedicated  to  the  Housewife  who  is  dealing  with  the  per- 
plexities of  preparing  the  meals. 

Its  aim  is  to  help  the  one  whose  larder  is  not  always 
provisioned  with  a  great  variety  of  fancy  groceries,  as  well 
as,  the  cue  whose  training-  for  this  duty  is  unfortunately 
limited.  The  author  contributes  a  few  recipes  that  are 
original,  but  in  the  main,  old  recipes  written  anew,  im- 
proved upon  and  simplified,  is  all  that  is  claimed  herein. 

It  is  hoped  and  believed,  that  this  book  will  be  of 
some  assistance,  and  lighten  the  burden  of  the  one  who 
makes  the  home — the  Faithful   Household   Cook. 


«.$_  *>»   «&   -^    a^,  *^*A* 


£4? 


<£  <^  ^/»  •*&   ^  %r 


A  Tribute  to  the  Worlds  Heroine 


The    li'orld    is-    always    praising 

All    the  great   folk    of   the   time- 
The    poets    and    musicians,    and 

The    ministers   sublime; 
But    the    earth's  greatest    heroine 

They    never    east    a    look; 
I'll  tell  you   she   is,   at  once — 

The    blessed    household    cook. 


We    hear    a    lot    of    lauding    for 

The   man   zvho   goes   to  war, 
The    artist    and    the    sculptor, 

The    poet    and    his    lore, 
I  lh     lawyer    and    iuz'cnter,    and 

The    author's    famous    book; 
But    zee    never    hear    a    zeord    about 

The    blessed    household    cook. 


Perhaps   you    think   she    isn't   zvorth 

The  praise   that  I  would  give; 
But,  without  her  ceaseless  kindness 

Tray,    how    long    would   you    live? 
W  e    all    would    soon    expire,    if 

Of  food   zee    ne'er   partook; 
So.    /    raise    my    hat    in    honor    of 

The    blessed    household    c,ook. 

She    saves    the    lives    of    thousands. 

By    her    duties    every    day. 
Though   she    does    it   in    a   simple 

.  lud   unnoticed,   quiet  way. 
But  when   I  am  an   author. 

I    shall   surely    write    a    book 
About    the    queen    of   womankind — 

The    zeorthy    household    cook. 

ALICE  M.  JONES. 
(In  Farm  and  Home). 


U  at 


|       CWMMF. 


y  41 


':    J 


BREAK 

A^PER 

%m.mm 

mm 

12 

V    VU~*  1         ■  7> 

__» 

... 

BREAK 

BOLLS 

ORB'JGATED 

■ 

13 

1REAK 

•  ««!«. 

m-W 

s 

LOUR 

aiN 

AND 
S.CKER 


# 


mwmmm. 


Courtesy    Washburn    Crosby   Co. 
SECTIONAL  VIEW  OP  SIMPLIFIED  FLOUR  MILL 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING        9 

(1)  Scales,  for  weighing  wheat  as  it  is  received. 

(2)  Receiving   separator,  for  separating  other  kinds  of  .seeds 

from  wheat. 

(3)  Storage  bins,  for  reserve  supply  of  wheat   in   advance  of 

mill   requirements. 
(A)     Mill  separator,  for  further  separating  foreign  seeds  from 
wheat. 

(5)  Scourer,  for  removing  dust  from  wheat   kernels. 

(6)  Cockle  cylinder,  for  removing  all  round  seeds. 

(7)  Wheat  washer,  for  thoroughly  cleansing  the  wheal. 

(8)  Wheat   dryer,   for  drying  wheat  after  washing. 

(9)  1st   break   rolls,   for   rupturing   bran,   enabling    bran    and 

germ  to  be  separated  from  interior. 

(10)  1st   break   scalpel',   for   sifting   middlings   through    bolting 

cloth  to  separate  from  bran. 

(11)  2nd    break    rolls,    for    further     loosening     the     middlings 

from  bran. 
(12;     2nd   break  scalper  for  separating  more  middlings  from  bran. 
(13)     3rd  bread  rolls,  for  further  loosening  middlings  From  bran. 
14)      3rd   break   scalper,   lor   final    separation  of   middlings   from 

bran. 
(3'5)      Bran  duster,   for  dusting  low  grade  Hour  from   bran. 

(16)  Bran   Inn,    for   packing   bran    for   shipment. 

(17)  Grading  reel,  for  separating  middlings  by  sifting  through 

various  silzes  of  bolting   cloth. 
(1  Si     Dust    collector   and   purifier,    for    cleaning    and    purifying 
middlings  by  air  and  sifting. 

(19)  Smooth   rolls,    for    grinding   purified    middlings    very    tine 

to   flour. 

(20)  Flour  bolter,    for  sifting   fiour    from  purified    middlings. 

(21)  2nd    reduction    rolls,    for    further    grinding    of    purified 

middlings. 

(22)  Flour  bolter,  for  separating  Hour  from  purified   middlings 

of  second  grading. 

(23)  Flour  bin   and  packer,  for  packing  flour  for  shipment. 
(24  i     Elevator,  for  raising  products  to  the  various  machines. 


'W 


I— H 


I— I 

O 

< 

5? 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  11 


Bread 


Bread  the  staff  of  life,  by  common  consent,  occupies  first 
place  as  an  article  of  food,  in  all  homes,  by  all  peoples  of  the 
•ivilized  and  much  of  the  uncivilized  world. 

Bread  dates  back  before  the  beginning"  of  history. 

Tlie  scriptures  in  early  Bible  times  frequently  mention 
bread,  also  unleavened  bread  of  the  Jews  used  in  the  Passover. 

In  Genesis  18:6  we  read:  "Abraham  hastened  into  the  teni. 
into  Sarah,  and  said,  "Make  ready  quickly  three  measures  of 
fine  meal,  knead  it,  and  bake  cakes  upon  the  hearth." 

History  tells  ns  of  the  ancient  Egyptians,  who  knew  the 
art  of  bread  making,  of  the  Greeks  and  Romans  who  had  many 
bakeries,  and  bread  and  cakes  Avere  made  in  great  variety. 

in  the  Chaldean  ruins  well  built  ovens,  and  perfect  grinding 
stones  for  reducing  grain  are  found.  The  earliest  bread  makers 
were  the  Lakedwellers  that  inhabited  Switzerland  in  the  Stone- 
age.     Loaves  baked  on  hot  stones  were  found. 

Perhaps  the  earliest  record  of  the  grinding  of  grain  and 
bread  made  from  it,  comes  from  China.  The  Chinese  were 
bread  makers  4500  years  ago.  Judging  from  what  we  read  of 
it  the  bread  question  is  an  old   one. 

Leavened  bread  as  far  as  the  leavening  is  concerned  is 
made  the  same  to-day  as  it  was  in  early  times.  Fermented  or 
sour  dough,  as  it  is  commonly  called,  is  the  leavening  used. 

Sour   dough    is    made    by   taking   a    small   portion   of   dough 

-  say  three   or  four  ounces  from  a  baking      -  and  putting  it 

away    until    the    next    baking    day.    then    mixing   it    with    fresh 

dough.     "11   will  leaven  the  whole  lump."     Bread  made  in  this 

way  usually  has  a  sour  taste. 

For  a  long  time  bread  making  has  been  considered  an  art, 
and   it   may  be  added  that   to  make   a   good  wholesome   loaf  of 


12  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

bread  is  the  greatest  of  household  arts.  A  baking  of  nicely 
browned,  plum]),  loaves  of  bread,  always  challenges  attention 
and  is  always  admired.  Some  authorities  on  domestic  ar1 
claim  that  to  be  successful  in  bread  making,  one  must  know 
the  chemistry  of  yeast  and  flour,  in  fact,  bread  making  in  all 
its  scientific  principles. 

This  booklet  does  not  treat  on  the  chemistry  of  bread  mak- 
ing, but  on  the  most  simple,  practical,  successful  home  methods, 
it  is  desirable,  though  not  necessary,  that  one  who  bakes  under- 
stands something  about  flour  as  well  as  yeast. 

It  is  now  nearly  three  hundred  years  since  yeast  was  first 
used,  and  while  our  ancestors  made  a  good  palatable  bread  it 
was  not  until  recent  years  that  the  art  of  bread  making  at- 
tained any  degree  of  perfection,  this.  <d  course,  is  largely  made 
possible  by  the  modern  method  of  milling  wheat  and  making 
flour.  All  brands  of  patent  process  flour,  made  from  spring 
wheat,  is  standard  and  the  best   lor  bread  making. 

By  spring  wheat  is  meant,  wheat  sown  in  the  spring.  It  is 
chiefly  grown  in  the  Northwestern  States  and  Canada.  Flour 
•>l  this  wheat  is  generally  called  "Hard  Wheat  Flour."  It  i« 
rich  in  gluten  and  is  the  most  perfect  bread  Hour.  It  is  of  a 
creamy  color,  not  white  or  grey  in  color,  which  indicates  a 
poor  flour.  Winter  wheat  is  a  soft  wheat,  and  is  grown  in  all 
parts  of  the  U.  S.  principally  the  western,  southern  and  eastern 
states.  Flour  made  from  winter  wheat  is  called  "Soft  Wheal 
Flour*'  and  is  used  in  breads,  pastry,  and  macaroni,  it  con- 
tains less  gluten,  but  is  rich  in  starch.  The  best  Hour,  perhaps 
in  all  the  world,  is  made  in  Minneapolis,  and  is  shipped  to  all 
parts  of  America  and  many  foreign  countries.  The  leading 
brands  are  Occident,  Gold  Medal,  Ceresota,  and  Pillsibury's 
Best. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  13 


Bread-Making 


Dry  Yeast. 


[nto  a  eup  of  hike  warm  water,  put  a  teaspoon  of  sugar 
and  one  and  a  half  cakes  oi'  yeast.  Let  soak  at  least  one  hour. 
Have  prepared'  two  cups  of  finely  mashed  potatoes,  turn  on 
them  a  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  in  a  heaping-  table- 
spoon of  flour,  stir  well  and  1ft  batter  cool.  Add  eup  of  yeast, 
beat  well,  cover  and  let  stand  until  morning. 

Sponge. 

To  three  pints  of  warm  water,  add  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  hatter,  stir  in  the  yeast  prepared  the  night  before  which 
v  ill  now  make  a  medium  batter.  Beat  thoroughly  for  five  or 
six  minutes.  Cover,  set  in  a  warm  place  out  of  draught  to 
vise,  which  under  ordinary  conditions  will  be  light  in  one  and 
one  half  to  two  hours. 

Kneading. 

A  bread  mixer  may  be  used,  but  if  tin'  kneading  is  done  *>" 
hand,  begin  mixing  with  a  heavy  spoon,  sift  in  one  sifter  of 
Hour,  stir,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  Lard,  more  flour 
and  heaping  tablespoon  of  salt.  Stir  and  add  flour  gradually 
;nitil  dough  becomes  too  stiff  to  use  the  spoon.  Remove  to 
floured  kneading  board,  or  finish  kneading  in  the  bread  pan 
which  is  now  done  by  hand.  Sift  in  flour  gradually,  knead 
steadily.  Remove  all  particles  of  dough  from  sides  ami  bottom 
of  pan.  Knead  for  twenty  minutes  or  more.  When  in  right 
condition  dough  will  be  elastic,  and  spongy,  and  will  not  lie 
inclined  to  stick  to  the  hands.  When  kneading  is  done  there 
should  be  no  flour  left  in  the  pan.  Cover  first  with  bread  pan 
cover,  then  with  table  cloth,  or  better,  a  cloth   for  the  purpose. 


1 4  RHEA  J )  MAKINGAND  BE  K AD  B AK I N  G 


Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  out  of  hot  or  cold  draughts. 
It  should  be  light  in  two  to  three  hours.  Temperature  of  room 
should  he  72  to  80  degrees. 

Putting  into  loaves. 

Grease  the  baking  pans  well,  use  the  sheet  iron  or  iron 
enamel  ware,  as  they  are  better  bakers.  For  a  single  loaf,  take 
about  two  pounds1  of  dough,  and  about  one  and  one  half  pounds. 
when  double  loaves  are  baked  in  a  pan.  Mould  each  into  shape 
and  place  in  pan.  Brush  top  with  lard  or  butter  and  set  to 
rise  in  even  temperature,  cover  with  light  cloth. 

Under  favorable  conditions  the  bread  will  be  up  and  double 
its  size,  in  three  fourths  of  an  hour,  sometimes  less. 

Baking. 

Put  the  bread  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  bake  until  nicely 
browned  over  top,  which  will  take  fifteen  minutes,  then  reduce 
the  heat  about  one  half;  to  prevent  scorching  during  the  latter 
part  of  baking,  place  a  sheet  of  brown  or  white  paper  over  the 
bread.  Bake  one  hour.  Remove  from  pans,  place  on  cloth  to 
cool.     Brush  lightly  while  hot  with  butter. 

If  bread  raises  too  long  it  will  be  porous  and  dry.  If  it  is 
very  slow  in  rising  it  will  be  dry,  or  tough,  soggy,  and  inclined 
to  be  sour. 

Olive  oil  can  be  used  in  bread  in  place  of  lard  or  other 
shortening,  it  is  much  better ;  use  it  h\  the  same  quantity  or  a 
little  less. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  15 

BREAD. 

Compressed  Yeast. 

Dissolve  2  cakes  of  compressed  yeast  in  half  cup  of  luke 
warm  water;  rice  or  mash  3  or  4  medium  sized  boiled  potatoes 
Miid  add  heaping-  tablespoon  flour,  put  this  into  bread  pan  and 
turn  in  one  quart  boiling  water  and  beat  up  well.  When  cooled 
to  luke  warm,  turn  in  yeast  and  stir  in  enoitgh  flour  to  make 
a  medium  batter,  beat  briskly  a  few  minutes  and  set  away  in 
warm  place   to   rise. 

Dough. 

When  light  add  seme  Hour,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  lard, 
stirring  briskly,  one  tablespoon  salt  and  more  Hour.  When  too 
stiff  to  stir  with  spoon,  finish  by  hand,  kneading  until  dough  is 
spongy  and  elastic.     Let  rise  and  finish  in  the  usual  way. 

NUT  BREAD. 

Nut  bread  is  made  much  the  same  as  other  bread,  only  dif- 
fering in  the  proportion  of  ingredients,  and  the  addition  of 
nut  meats. 

Yeast. 

Place  in  a  cup  of  luke  warm  water  IV.  cakes  dry  yeast  and 
1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  soak  1  hour.  To  1  cup  of  mashed  pota- 
toes, add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  stir  and 
when  cool  add  yeast,  mix  well  and  let  set  over  night  in  a  warm 
place. 

Sponge. 

Add  to  the  yeast  1  quart  of  luke  warm  water  and  flour  to 
make  a  sponge  batter,  cover  and  set  away  to  rise.  When  light 
add  1  to  V/n  <-ups  sugar  Va  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  to  iy2  cups 
mil  meats  and  knead  as  other  bread,  adding  flour  as  needed. 


16  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

On  baking  day  a  few  loaves  of  graham  bread  can  be  made 
conveniently  by  making  more  bread  sponge,  using  an  extia 
yeast  cake'  and  more  moisture.  For  graham  bread  take  J 
quart  of  bread  sponge,  \',  to  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  /2  cup 
shortening,  1  heaping  teaspoon  salt  and  equal  amounts  of  flour 
and  graham  flour,  sift  in  as  long  as  the  batter  can  be  stirred 
with 'heavy  spoon;  beat  briskly  and  set  to  raise. 

When  light  put  in  greased  pans,  and  when  light  again  baice 
■m   quick   oven,  reducing  heat   in    10  or  (15  minutes. 
Wholewheat    Hour  may   be   used  instead   of   graham. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

;.., up  brown  sugar  1  cup  corn  meal 

1/2  cup  molasses  1  cup  graham  or  rye 

9       p-cr«  1  CllP  ft°Ur 

ips  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 


2    CT_ 

cla  1  teaspoon  salt 

Steam   ^  to  4  hours 


^   teaspoon  soda 


BROWN  BREAD   STEAMED. 

V,  cup  sugar  1   cup  seedless  raisin, 

1  cup  molasses  2  cups  corn  meal 
i/2  teaspoon  soda                             a  cup  flour 

2  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  cups  milk  "I  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  hot  shortening 
Mix    ingredients    in    order   named,    with   raisins    dredged    i* 
flour  and  hot  shortening  last,     Turn  in  greased  mold  and  steam 
aboul  4  hours. 


BRLAD  MA  KIN  (i  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


17 


BROWN  BREAD,  BAKED. 


]  2  cup  brown  sugar 
2  eup  molasses 

1  eup  raisins 

2  cups  sour  milk 

1   cup  flour 


2  cups  graham  Hour 

2  tablespoons  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  soda 
1    effo- 


Work  sugar,  shortening  and  molasses  together,  add  beaten 
egg,  and  sour  milk  with  soda  dissolved  in  it.  Stir  in  Hour,  salt 
and  graham  and  lastly  the  raisins  dredged  in  Hour.  Beat  well 
and  turn  in   greased   pans  and   let   rise  one  hour  before  baking. 


RYE  BREAD. 


Yeast. 


Japong-e. 


1  cake  dry  yeast 
1  teaspoon  sugar 
Y-2  cup  warm  water 

Soak   half  hour 


:;  cups  warm  water 

Rye  Hour  to  make  batter 

Cup   dissolved    yeast 

Stir  well  and  let  rise. 


Dough. 

2  nips  warm   water 
•  '>  cups  Hour 
1   tablespoon    salt 
|  ..  eup  lard 

Rye  Hour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  knead  thoroughly  and  han- 
dle dough  roughly  by  striking  or  pounding  with  hands.  Let 
rise.  Mould  into  loaves,  brush  top  with  white  of  egg  and  water. 
Let   rise  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 


18  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

PARKER   HOUSE   ROLLS. 

Eponge. 

Dissolve  one  cake  dry  yeast  in  V2  cup  Luke  warm  water. 
Add  teaspoon  sugar  and  let  stand  half  an  hour.  Scald  3  pint 
of  milk,  when  eool  add  cup  yeast  and  flour  to  make  a  medium 
biatter,  cover  and  let  rise. 

Dough. 

To  the  sponge  stir  in  2  or  3  tablespoons  sugar,  piece  buttei 
the  size  of  an  egg  melted  or  softened.  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
gradually  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  kneading  when 
dough  becomes  too  stiff  to  stir  with  spoon.  Let  rise,  knead 
down  and  let  rise  again. 

Rolls. 

Flatten  out  the  dough  to  about  '  ^  inch  in  thickness.  Cut 
round  or  oval,  brush  tops  lightly  with  melted  butter  and  creas< 
tli rough  center  with  back  of  knife,  fold,  and  press  edges  to- 
gether. Put  in  baking  pan  with  space  between.  Let  rise;  bake 
about   20  minutes  in   quick   oven. 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 


2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons   baking-powder 

V2  CLlP  shortening  $4  cup  milk  or  water. 

Salt. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  the  shortening,  then  tie 
milk  or  water.  Use  a  fork,  spoon  or  the  hands  but  do  not 
knead.  As  quickly  as  possible  place  the  soft  dough  on  a  floured 
hoard.  Roll  lightly  to  14  inch  in  thickness,  use  biscuit  "cutter. 
Bake   15  to  20  minutes. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  19 

MUFFINS. 

2  cups  flour  2  rounding  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  eggs  2  rounding  teaspoons  shortening 

1  eup  milk  1    rounding  teaspoon  sugar 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  milk,  then  stir  in  the  mixed  and 
sifted  dry  ingredients,  now  turn  in  the  melted  shortening, 
which  should  be  hot,  stir  until  well  mixed.  Turn  at  once  into 
gem  irons  or  muffin  pans  that  are  well  greased  and  smoking 
hot.     Fill  pans  half  full.     Bake  15  to  20  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

1  L.  eup  Hour  2  eggs 

1V<  cup  graham  flour  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking-powder 

1%  CUP  milk  2  rounding  teaspoons  shortening 

xh  cup  sugar  Sail 

Proceed  as  with  muffins. 

SOUR  MILK  GEMS. 

1  pint  sour  milk  Flour,  Salt 

1   teaspoon  soda  Shortening 

Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water.  Add  to  sour  milk,  or  butter- 
milk may  he  used.     Stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  medium  hatter. 

MINNEAPOLIS  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

2  enps  corn  meal  1    eup  sour  milk 

1    cup  flour  1    scant  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  boiled  pumpkin  1   scant  teaspoon  salt 

;ii    nip  sugar  1/2  teaspoon   cinnamon 

•'■ ,    cup  boiling  water  4  teaspoons  baking-powder 

1   or  2  eggs. 
Pour  the   boiling   water   over  the   corn    meal,  stir,  add   sugar 
and   pumpkin.     Then   the   sour   milk   with    soda    dissolved    in    it, 
flour  sifted  with   the  baking  powder,   the  beaten    eggs   and   sea- 
soning.    Beat  briskly,  turn  into  a  buttered  tin,  bake. 


20  BRHAD  MAKING  AND  BRKAD  BAKING 


Pointers  for  Pastry 

For  fancy  cakes  and  pastry,  use  pastry  flour,  if  it  ran  be 
had,  the  cake  will   be  lighter,  and  the  piecrust   more  flakey. 

Good  housekeepers,  however,  use  a  good  grade  of  bread 
flour,  for  bread,  cake,  and  genera]  baking  purposes,  with  never 
a  failure.  Two  points  essential  in  cake  making,  are  attention 
and  preparation.  To  be  prepared  the  working  utensils  should 
be  clean  and  within  reach.  The  materials  used  in  the  cake 
should  be  of  the  best  quality.  Your  attention  should  not  be 
interrupted  by  any  other  work.  Speed  in  stirring  up  a  cake 
adds  to  its  success. 

I'se  fresh  sweet  butter,  fresh  eggs,  good  baking-powder,  and 
a   good   brand   of  flavoring  extracts. 

The  genera]  ride  for  mixing  a  butter  cake  or  any  cake  made 
with  butter  is  as  follows: — 

('ream  the  hotter,  and  when  beaten  light,  gradually  add  the 
sugar,  beating  briskly  until  creamy.  The  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  should  now  be  added,  beat  well  and  add  the  flavoring 
extracts.  Sift  Hour  (mixed  with  baking-powder  and  salt) 
several  times.  Add  Hour  and  liquid  alternately,  and  when 
well  beaten,  fold  in  the  lightly  beaten  whites  of  egos,  and 
then   the   fruit,  if  any  is  used. 

FOR  CAKES  WITHOUT  BUTTER. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  very  light.  Add  sugar  slowly,  beat- 
ing until  spongy.  Add  the  flavoring  and  what  liquid  may  be 
used. 

The  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  folded  in  alternately 
with  the  Hour,  which  has  been  mixed  with  baking-powder  arid 
salt,   and    sifted    several    times. 


BREAD  MAKING    iND  BREAD  BAKJNG  21 


Baling  and  Helps 

Have  a  moderate  oven  for  baking  sponge  and   angel  cakes. 

Have  a  hot  oven  for  baking  cookies  and  layer  cakes. 

Have   a   moderate   oven   for   baking   loaf,   pound,    and   fruit 
cakes. 

The    pans    for    baking    medium    sized    loaf    cakes    should    be 
greased  and  dusted  with  flour. 

The    pans   for    baking   large    loaf,    pound,     and    fruit     cakes 
should  lie  lined  with  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  greased  paper. 

The  batter  should  be  spread  evenly  when  turned  into  bak- 
ing tin. 

To   test    in    baking  a  cake,   pierce  the  center  with   a   broom 
splint,  if  il    comes  out  dry  and   (dean  the  cake  is  done. 

To  Test  the  Oven. 

A  moderately  heated  oven  will  scorch  a  piece  of  white  paper 

to  ;i   light  brown  in  five  minutes. 

A  hot  oven  will  scorch  it  to  a  dark  brown  in  five  minutes. 

Sift    flour    once    before    it    is    measured,    then    add    baking- 
powder  and   salt,   and  sift  2   or   3  times  more. 

All  measurements  are  level  unless  otherwise  mentioned. 


22  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Standard  Measuring  Cup 

1  eup  flour  equals yA  pound 

1  cup  sugar  equals   i/£>  pound 

*1  cup  butter  solid  equals    y,   pound 

1  cuip  liquid  equals  ...    . y2  pound 

1  cup  liquid  equals    yL>   pint 

1  cup  liquid  equals 2  gills 

1  cup  liquid  equals -1  wineglasses 

1  cup  liquid  equals 16  tablespoons 

4  saltspoons    equals    1    teaspoon 

2 — 3  teaspoons  equals 1  tablespoon 

3  tablespoons  equals il  oz.  flour 

2  tablespoons  equals 1  oz.  liquid 

2-  tablespoons  equals 1  oz.  butter 

iy2— 2  tablespoons  equals 1   oz.  sugar 

Level  measurements. 


BBEAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  23 


COFFEE  CAKE. 


1   quart  bread  sponge,  flour        \/2  cup  raisins 

-  i  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

V2  cup  butter  Nutmeg  and  salt 

Add  some  flour  to  sponge,  stir  in  sugar,  butter,  raisins,  ami 
other  ingredients  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  by 
kneading.  Let  rise,  when  light  flatten  out  in  baking  tins, 
brush  top  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cin- 
namon :  h't   rise  and  bake. 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  quarl  of  bread  sponge,  or  make  a  sponge  of  1  cake  of 
dry  yeast,  1  pint  sealded  and  eooled  milk,  or  1  pint  water. 
After  rising,  add  flour  and  knead  ;  let  rise,  when  light  work  in 
'•  i  cup  sugar  and  i/o  cup  butter  creamed  together,  and  2  or  3 
beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg  and  a 
few  raisins  if  liked.  Flatten  out  in  shallow  baking  tins  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Let 
rise  and  bake. 


24  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKI\<; 

DEUTCHER  KAFFEE  KUOHEN. 

Yeast. 

1  cake  dry  yeast,   1    teaspoon   sugar,   ' L.  cup  hike  warm  water. 

Soak   half  hour. 

Sponge. 

To  V/2  pints  scalded  milk,  cooled,  add  dissolved  yeast  and 
flour  to  make  a  medium  battel".     Let   rise. 

Dough. 

Stir  in  some  flour,  mixed  with  about  2  cups  combined  rai- 
sins, currants  and  nutmeats;  ^  cup  butter  creamed  with  \L/i 
cups  sugar,  beat  well,  adding  Hour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  3 
or  4  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  '4  teaspoon  nutmeg. 
Beat.  10  to  15   minutes. 

Have  tins  about  2  inches  deep  and  till  half  full,  sprinkle  top 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Let  rise,  and  bake  z/^  to  1  hour  in 
moderate    oven. 


BRKAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  25 


Cufa 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

134  lb.  sugar  1    cup  black  Aval  nuts 

1   lb.  butter  1/2  lb.  citron 

1  lb.  Hour  i    teaspoons  baking-powdi 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  lb.  sultana  raisins  1   teaspoon  cloves 

1  lb.  currants  l/2  cup  molasses 

1   lb.  chopped   dales  8  to  10  eggs 

Salt  juice  of  3  oranges. 

:  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of 
(  ggs  and  the  Hour  sifted  with  the  baking-powder.  Stir  in  the 
fruit,  molasses  and  spices.  The  citron  may  be  sliced  very  thin 
or  run  through  a  food  chopper;  add  the  orange  juice.  Fold  in 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  bake  3  to  4  hours  in  long,  nar- 
row and  deep  aluminum  pan  that  has  been  buttered  and 
floured. 

Bake    on    oven    grate    with    moderate    heat,    after    one    hour 
reduce  heat. 

DARK  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  lb.  sugar  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  lb.  Hour  1  ciip  black  walnut  meats 

1  lb.  butter  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  11).  currants  •  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

V2  lb.  citron  -  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  Ihs.  raisins  .2  ground  nutmegs 
10  eggs  1   teaspoon  soda 

Juice    2   or   3   lemons. 


26  BREAD  .MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

LIGHT  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1   lb.   sugar  21/-  cups  Hour 

i.'2  lb.  butter  !    cup  milk 

1   lb.  Sultana  raisins  2  cups  black  walnuts 

;/,  lb.  citron  2  cups  eoeoanut. 

1/2  lb.  figs  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Whites  of  (i  or  8  eggs. 

POUND   CAKE. 

1    lb.  sugar  1   lb.  flour 

1    lb.   butter  1   11).  eggs   (10) 

Almond  of  vanilla. 

Cream  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  also  the  butter 
with  part  of  the  Hour,  when  this  is  done  combine  the  two 
mixtures  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  10  eggs, 
flavor.     Bake  as  a  loaf. 

SILVER  CAKE   OR  SEAFOAM  CAKE. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  2  cups  pastry  flour 

]   cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

1    cup  corn  starch  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Whites  of  six  eggs  1  teaspoon   Almond  extract 

GOLD  CAKE  OR  SUNSHINE  CAKE. 


2  cups  sugar  I   teaspoon  cream  tartar 

2J/2  cups  flour  V2,  teaspoon  soda 

1   cup  milk  2  teaspoons   vanilla 

1  cup  butter  Yolks  of  11   eggs 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  27 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE. 

1  cup  sour  cream  V2  teaspoon  soda 

D/2  cup  flour  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  2  esrsrs.     Halt. 
Bake  as  layer  or  loaf  cake. 

This  makes  a  nice  spice  cake  by  omitting-  vanilla  and  adding 
1  o  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  yL>  teaspoon  cinnamon.  y2  teaspoon 
nutmeg. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 

:>  eggs  2  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons   baking-powder 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  cup  hot  water 

%  teaspoon  salt. 
Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  then  together. 
Beat  in  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  flour  sifted  with  salt  and 
baking-powder.  When  well  beaten  add  the  flavoring  and  the 
cup  of  hot  water,  mixing  quickly,  turn  into  buttered  and  heat- 
ed pan.  bake. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Bea1  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Add  one  cup  sugar,  beat  until 
creamy,  add  three  tablespoons  water.  Place  in  a  cup  one  and 
one  half  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  one  teaspoon  baking-pow- 
der and  till  with  flour,  sift  twice,  combine  the  two  mixtures, 
beat  well,  stir  in  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  cogs.  Bake  about  thirty 
1  ninnies 

SPICE  CAKE. 

1    rup  sugar  l/o  teaspoon  nutmeg 
!  -j   eup  butter  1    teaspoon  cinnamon 

1    cup  sour  milk  1 L  teaspoon  cloves 

'4   teaspoon  soda  j/4   cup  black  walnut  meats 

1  cup  sweet  milk  chopped 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  2  cups  flour 


28  BftEAD  MAKING  AM)  BREAD  BAKING 

WEDDING   CAKE. 

1   ll).  or  2  cups  sugar  1   teaspoon  nutmeg 

1   lb.   butter  1    teaspoon  cinnamon 

1   lb.  flour  i  _,  teaspoon  mace 

1   seeded  raisins  2  cups  blanched  almonds 

1   lb.  currants  1   cup  black  walnut  meats 
1  lb.  bleached   Sultana  raisins     3  oranges  (juice) 

1   lb.  figs  or  dates  1   lemon  (juice  and  grated  rind) 

1  o  lb.  citron,   candied  8  to  10  eggs 

'  2  lb.  orange  or  lemon,  candied 

Cream  butter  with  part  of  sugar,  and  yolks  of  eggs  with 
balance  of  sugar.  Combine  the  two  mixtures,  add  orange  juice, 
.mated  rind  and  juice  of  lemon,  and  all  the  flour  except  part  of 
a  cup  in  which  mix  the  spices,  and  dredge  the  small  fruits  that 
have  been  previously  prepared.  Stir  and  add  the  chopped  nut 
meats,  citron  and  orange  peel  cut  or  chipped  thin.  Mix  well 
and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  This  may  be 
baked  in  one  or  two  oblong  pans,  which  should  be  lined  with 
three  thicknesses  of  buttered  paper. 

Like  any  fruit  cake  it  is  much  better  baked  two  or  three 
weeks  before  used. 


No.  1.     LAYER  OR  WHITE  CAKE. 


2  cups  sugar  Whites  of  8  eggs 
•v.!   cup  butter  3  j   cup  milk 

3  cups  flour  Voteaspoon  lemon  extract 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Vo  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk  and  extracts,  mix  bak- 
ing powder  with  flour  and  sift  several  times,  stir  it  in  alter- 
nately with  the  beaten  whites,  stirring  always  one  way,  and  beat 
well.     Bake  in  buttered  and  floured  cake  tin. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  29 

No.  2.     LAYER  OR  WHITE  CAKE. 

2  cups   sugar  3  cups  flour 

^   cup  butter  2U  teaspoons  baking-  powder 

1   cup  milk  5  eggs 

vanilla        salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk  slowly,  then  Hour  sifted 
with  baking  powder.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
•  idding  the  flavoring.  Bake  in  layers  or  loaf.  Good  with 
banana   or  any   frail  tilling 


BIRTHDAY  CAKE. 


A    very  good   birthday  cake  for  children  may  be  made  from 

1  his  recipe  :■ — 

2  cups  sugar  1    heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 
::1:.  cups  flour                            1   tablespoon  ground  mace 

4   cup  milk  }/»  teaspoon  salt 

2/>,  cup  butter  3  eggs 

("ream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  yolks  well  beaten,  mix  the 
dry. ingredients,  seive  3  or  4  times  and  add  to  the  creamed  mix- 
ture with  the  milk,  stir  well,  then  fold  in  the   frothy  whites  of 

3  eggs. 

Bake  as  layer  cake,  or  if  made  in  loaf  cake,  line  deep  cake 
tin  with  buttered  paper,  then  turn  in  layer  of  batter,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  figs  and  black  walnut  meats,  turn  in  more  batter, 
then  more  figs  and  nut  meats  as  before,  tin  should  be  about  2/i> 
full.  Bake  in  slow  oven  about  40  minutes.  Frost  with  cream 
frosting-   decorate   with   candies. 


30  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


GINGER  CAKES 

1   cup  brown  sugar  1    teaspoon  ginger 

1   cup  light  New  Orleans  molasses  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

1   cup  sour  cream  1   teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda  i .,  eup  nut  meats   (or) 

2  eggs  1    rllp  raisins 
2  cups  flour 

Bake  as  drop  calces  or  loaf  cake. 


JELLY  ROLL  CAKE. 

1  !L.  cup  sugar  1       cup  milk 

2  eggs  2       cups  flour 

V2     cup  butter  :>,       teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream    butler   and   slowly  add  sugar,   then   the   well   beaten 
eggs,  add  some  Hour  after  being  sifted  with  baking  powder,  then 
a  part  of  milk  and  flour  alternately  until  all  is  stirred  in.    Beat 
briskly.     Bake  in  thin  layers  in  large  shallow  tins.     Spread  wit! 
eurranl  jelly  and  roll. 


GINGER  BREAD. 

3  cups  Hour  2  teaspoons  ginger 

1    cup   molasses  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

;  2   ''Up  blown  sugar  1    teaspoon  saleratus 

1  [.  cup  shortening  :>  eggs 

1    eup  water  Salt 

1    cup  raisins 

Mix  together  sugar,  shortening,  molasses,  ginger,  cinnamon 
and  salt.  Add  the  water  bot.  with  sab  rat  us  dissolved  in  it. 
Add  flour  stirring  until  quite  smooth,  stir  in  raisins  and  the  well 
beaten  eggs.    Bake  slowty. 


URKAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


31 


GINGER   COOKIES 


1  cup  brown  sugar 

1   cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  cup  butter 

2  eggs 

y<>  cup  milk 


1  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  ginger 

1   teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  2  teaspoon  salt 


Hour  to  make  a  soft   dough,  roll  out  quickly  ami   bake  in   a 
moderate  oven. 


GINGER  COOKIES. 


Beat  1  cui)  butter,  */£  cup  sugar,  2  cups  molasses  until  well 
mixed.  Dissolve  2  teaspoons  soda  in  4  tablespoons  of  hot  water. 
Stir  it  into  1  cup  sour  milk.  Add  milk  to  above  mixture  with 
1  teaspoon  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  ground  (doves 
and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  (if  wanted),  mix.  Stir  in  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  roll  out  thi'n.  Bake  in  floured  tins  in 
moderate  oven.  These  cookies  will  keep  nicely  for  a  week  it 
kept  in  a  stone  crock. 


MOLASSES  COOKIES. 


2  cups  molasses 
1  cup  milk  or  water 
H  cup  shortening 


1    teaspoon  soda 
1   teaspoon  salt 
Flour 


Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  hot  water,  stir  it  into  molasses.  Add 
milk,  lard  and  seasoning,  then  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough 
Cut  and  bake  on  floured  tin  in  quick  oven. 


32  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

1/4  cups  sugar  y2  teaspoon  baking-powder 

1       cup  butter  1       teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  milk  14  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  Flour 

Cream  the  butter  then  add  the  sugar  and  the  well  beaten 
eggs  and  the  other  ingredients,  beating  well.  Sift  in  Hour  enough 
to  make  a  dough  to  roll  out.     Bake  in  quick  oven. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

1   cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

1   cup  shortening  ]   teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  cloves 

-/•2.  (<tlP  sugar  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  cups  flour  3  eggs 

1  heaping  cup  raisins. 

Heal  milk,  sugar  and  shortening.  Stir  in  seasoning.  Then 
molasses  with  soda  that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
next  the  flour  with  raisins,  and  last  the  eggs  that  have  been 
well  beaten.  Bake  30  to  40  minutes  in  ordinary  oblong  baking 
tin. 

ROCKS. 


1        cup  sugar  1  1  '2  cups  flour 

VA  cup  butter  2  eggs,  salt 

1       teaspoon  cloves  ]  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  heaping  cup  of  nut  meats  ami  raisins  chopped;  or  in  place 
of  raisins,  chopped  dates. 


KREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  33 

SUGAR  CAKES. 

1   cup  powdered  sugar  2  eggs 

1    eup  flour  Vanilla 

1   teaspoon  baking  powder  Pinch  of  salt 

Heat  the  eggs  well  and  add  the  sugar  and  beat  very  light. 
Sift  in  the  flour  while  heating  steadily.  Add  flavoring  if  desired. 
Drop  from  a  small  spoon  on  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  moderat 

oven. 

CHEESE   CAKES. 


Mix  as  for  pie  crust,  1  cup  Hour,  -t  tablespoons  melted  Lard, 
a  little  salt  and  2  heaping  tablespoons  grated  cheese;  to  moisten, 
add  a  little  water. 

Roll  nut  and  cut  into  any  shape  or  size  desired.  Make  a 
filling  by  mixing  1  eup  grated  eheese  and  yolk  of  1  egg.  Put  a 
heaping  teaspoon  full  in  the  center  of  each  piece  of  crust. 
sprinkle  with  a  dash  of  peprika.  and  a  few  bits  of  butter, 
moisten  the  edges  of  crust.  Lay  on  the  upper  crust  pressing 
the  edges  together.     Bake  until  browned. 


DOUGHNUTS. 


1    cup  sugar  1    egg 

1    eup  sour  milk  1    teaspoon  soda 

flour         sail  nutmeg 

.Mix  sugar  and  egg,  add  a.  tablespoon  of  melted  shortening 
lit'  the  sour  milk  has  no  cream)  ;  stir  in  the  milk  with  seasoning 
and  21/-  to  3  cups  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 


34  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BRKAD  BAKING 


DOUGHNUTS. 

1   cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk  1   teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  1/9  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Cream  the  sugar  and  melted  butter  in  a  mixing  howl,  stir  in 
the  well  beaten  egg;  nutmeg,  .salt,  then  the  milk ;  mix  and  sift 
tlu-  baking-powder  and  flour  and  stir  in  the  Hour  or  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  in  sheet  about  one-third  of  an  inch 
in  thickness  and  cut  as  desired. 

Have  lard  for  frying  at  the  right  temperature;  it  should  not 
he  smoking  hot; — drop  a  small  piece  of  bread  in  the  frying  fat, 
and  if  it  browns  in  %  of  a  minute,  the  heat  is  aboul  right  for 
frying  doughnuts. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  35 


Cake  Fillings  and  Frostings 


CREAM  FILLING. 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  Hour  1/2  cup  cream 

2  eggs,  pinch  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  and  salt.  Stir  the  well  beaten  eggs  into 
milk  and  cream.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  10  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  beat  a  few  minutes 
adding  the  vanilla. 

Beating  will  make  it  light. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

y$   cup  sugar  1    egg 

yi  cup  water  1  teaspoon  butter 

1   tablespoon  cornstarch 

-Juice  and  grated  rind  of  V2  lemon.  Put  water,  part  of  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  in  double  boiler  and  heat  to  boiling 
point,  stir  in  balance  of  sugar  mixed  with  corn  starch,  boil  10 
minutes.    Add  egg,  well  beaten,  and  butter.    Beat  a  few  minutes. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  AND  BANANA  FILLING. 

Spread  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream  between  the 
layers  of  cake  and  on  top.  adding  sliced  bananas. 


36  BRKAJ)  MAKING  AND  BRKA1)  BAKING  '        j 

FIG  FILLING. 

1  lb.  figs  1  cup  sugar 

IVo  cups  water  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Chop  figs  fine  and  cook  in  water  until  tender.  Add  sugar 
and  cook  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread,  stir  in  the 
vanilla. 

CARAMEL  FILLING. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  1    tablespoon  butter 

^2  cup  milk 

Mix  ingredients  and  boil  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when 
a  little  is  dropped  in  cold  water.     Spread  warm. 

ORANGE  FILLING. 

}i  cup  sugar  I  egg 

1   tablespoon  cornstarch  1  teaspoon  butter 

Juice  of  1  orange  and  V*  lemon,  with  water  combined  to 
make  a  scant  cupful.     Make  like  lemon  filling. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

:^       squares  Bakers  chocolate       1   teaspoon  butter 

iy2  cups  powdered  sugar  1   egg 

4       tablespoons  milk  1     teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  yolk,  stir  it  into  milk,  add  sugar.  Now  melt  the 
chocolate  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  the  mixture  and  butter  to 
it.  Oook  until  smooth  and  thick.  Add  vanilla  and  let  cool. 
This  can  be  used  for  filling  and  frosting. 

BANANA  FILLING. 

Spread   the  layers  with  '-ream  filling  and  add  sliced   banana, 


BREAD  MAKING   1ND  BREAD  BAKING  37 

BANANA-CREAM  FILLING. 

Four  tablespoons  cream;  .stir  in  powdered  sugar  to  make  a 
soft  paste,  with  a  tablespoon  of  vanilla  added.  Spread  filling 
between  layers  and  on  top  of  rake,  with  sliced  bananas. 

CREAM  FROSTING. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar.  5  tablespoons  cream. 

Lemon  or  almond  flavoring. 

Mix  sugar  and  cream,  place  over  slow  heat,  stir  until  begins 
to  boil,  boil  five  minutes.  Add  flavoring  and  stir  or  beat  until 
it  becomes  creamy,  fake  must  be  quite  warm  when  frosting  is 
spread  on. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 


1  cup  sugar  White  1  egg 

2  table  spoons  Karo  V2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

o  tablespoons  water  12  drops  to  %  teaspoon  almond 

Add  the  sugar  to  water,  ami  Karo,  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Turn  syrup  slowly  on  the  light 
beaten  white  of  egg,  beating  briskly;  add  flavoring. 

BOILED  ICING. 

.1   cup  sugar  White  1  egg 

4  tablespoons  water  Flavor 

Dissolve  sugar  in  water  and  boil  until  the  soft  ball  stage, 
turn  in  slowly  the  light  beaten  white  of  egg,  beating  briskly 
and  add  flavoring.     Spread  on  the  cold  cake. 


3S  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

¥4  cup  shortening  l  teaspoon  salt 

}i  cup  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  shortening  which  should  be  part 
butter,  and  the  milk.  Mix  as  for  baking  powder  biscuits. 
Divide  dough  and  roll  out  one  half  inch  in  thickness.  Place  in 
large  flat  pan  and  butter  the  top  which  is  to  prevent  upper 
layer  sticking;  roll  out  other  dough  and  place  on  top  of  first. 
Bake  in  quick  oven.  When  done  raise  upper  crust  carefully  and 
spread  lower  portion  with  crushed  and  sweetened  strawberries. 
Replace  upper  crust  and  spread  it  Avith  fruit  same  as  lower  pairt. 
Before  straAvberries  are  added,  dot  liberally  with  butter. 
Serve  warm. 

VANILLA   ICE   CREAM. 

2  quarts  millk  1  pint  cream 
K-  cup  flour                                      4  to  6  eggs 

x/2  teaspoon  salt  ]  tablespoon  vanilla 

3  cups  sugar     , 

Put  three  pints  of  milk  in  double  boiler  and  heat,  make  a 
thickening  of  the  flour  and  one  pint  of  milk,  add  salt  and  turn 
it  into  heated  milk  in  double  boiler,  stir  and  cook  20  to  30 
minutes.  Stir  in  sugar  and  let  cool.  Beat  eggs  separately, 
add  yolks  to  pint  of  cream  and  turn  it  into  custard,  then  the 
vanilla  and  the  beaten  Avhites.  Turn  all  into  gallon  freezer  and 
freeze 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

2  quarts  milk  4  eggs 

3  cups  sugar  5  lemons 

Beat  eggs  separately,  add  part  of  sugar  to  the  yolks  and  beat 
more,  turning  it  in  milk  with  rest  of  sugar  and  stir  in  the 
beaten  AA'hites.  Turn  freezer  and  freeze  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  .     Now  add  the  Lemon  juice  and  finish  freezing-. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING"  39 


Puddings 

ENGLISH   PLUM  PUDDING. 

y-2  pound  suet,  1  pound  equal  parts  of  candied  citron,  lemon 
and  orange  peel,  which  with  the  suet  may  be  run  through  S 
food  chopper.  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  seeded  raisins  chopped  and 
1  cup  Sultana  raisins,  washed,  and  [loured.  %  cup  black  wal- 
nuts, or  blanched  almonds  chopped,  2  cups  crumbed  dry  bread, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  Y2  teaspoon  cloves, 
1 ::  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sugar. 

The  pudding  will  have  a  finer  flavor  if  the  above  ingredient? 
are  mixed  and  kept  in  a  cool  place  for  several  days  before  it  is 
made.  To  finish  add  1  cup  flour,  iy2  cups  milk.  4  beaten  eggs. 
After  mixing  well,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  with  a  little  of  the 
grated  rind  may  be  added. 

Steam  about  4  hours,  the  cover  must  not  be  raised  during 
the  first   iy%  hours  of  steaming. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet  1    lb.   raisins 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  '4  lb.  citron 

1  2  eup  sugar  '4  lb.  cherries 

1  2  cup  nn+  meats  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

I    cup  milk  '-teaspoon  cloves 

1    cup  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  salt 

1    cnp  flour  -\  teaspoons  baking-powder. 

4  eggs. 
Bea1   eggs,  add  sugar,  and  suet  that  has  been  measured  with- 
out  pressing   down    in   eup,   milk    and   bread   crumbs,    (generous 
measure  of  brown  sugar)   and  the   fruit.     Now  add   flour  sifted 
with  baking-powder  and  seasoning. 
Steam  constantly  four  hours. 


40  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD- BAKING 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

2  quarts  scalded  milk  U>  cup  flour 

2  eggs  1  cup  molasses 

:!  i  cup  sugar  •'■ ,  cup  raisins 

1    cup  corn  meal  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  L.  cup  cold  milk  -teaspoon  each 

Ginger  and  cinnamon. 

Stir  into  two  quarts  scalded  milk  one  cup  coin  meal,  bring 
to  boiling  point,  With  two  well  beaten  eggs,  add  ^  CUP  sugar, 
1  2  cup  molasses  and  J/2  cup  Hour,  the  ginger  and  einnaanon,  2 
teaspoons  salt  and  ]/\.  cup  Sultana  raisins.  To  this  mixture  add 
the  cornmeal  batter  and  stir  until  smooth.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
pan  and  bake  one  hour.  Then  stir  in  '  _.  cup  cold  milk,  bake  1 ' - 
to  2  hours  longer. 

Serve  with  lemon  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

CORN  MEAL  PUDDING. 


1    quart  milk  1    vgg 

y2  cup  corn  meal  ] .  _.  teaspoon  ginger 

cup  Hour  '-  2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  j>  cup  sugar  iy2  teaspoon  salt 

1A  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

1    Cup  suet  Juice  of  ^  lemon  and 
'  |  cup  molasses  the  grated  rind. 

Bring  milk  to  boiling  point,  stir  in  corn  meal.  Boil  10  to  15 
minutes  on  range,  stirring  steadily,  so  as  not  to  scorch,  or  boil  20 
minutes  in  double  boiler.  Let  cool  stir  in  seasonings,  suet  and 
other  ingredients,  Hour  and  baking-powder  last,  iSlteam  steadily 
•  !  hours  or  more.  Do  not  remove  the  cover  during  the  first  .2 
hours  of  cooking. 

1^4  cups  brown  sugar  may  be  substituted  for  the  '4  cup 
molassesi  and  "%  cup  sugar.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  41 

RHUBARB  PUDDING. 

J  Vz  cup  sugar  '  j  cup  cocoanut 

1/2  cup  butter  1   teaspoon  lemon 

2  cups  rhubarb  4  eggs 

1    eup  bread  crumbs  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  ;)<\(\  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
beat  light.  Stir  in  one  eup  of  bread,  cracker  or  calve  crumbs. 
two  cups  stewed  rhubarb,  the  cocoanut  and  lemon  extract,  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Fold  iu  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs. 
Steam  2  to  2)  i  hours. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

.")  apples  !  j    teaspoon  nutmeg 

3  cups  bread  crumbs  1    teaspoon  cinnamon 
1   cup  sugar                                      1/2  lemon. 

t>  tablespoons  melted  butter  Water. 

Peel,  core  and  chop  fine  5  medium  sized  apples:  mix  melted 
butter  with  bread  crumbs  and  spices.  Place  ai  layer  of  crumbs 
in  a  buttered  dish,  then  a  layer  of  apples  with  part  of  the  sugar 
sprinkled  over,  tben  another  layer  of  crumbs,  apples,  sugar  and 
finish  with  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Turn  lemon  juice  over 
top  with  a  few  tablespoons  of  water  to  moisten,  the  grated  rmd 
of  ',  a  lemon  may  be  added  also.  Bake  in  slow  oven  30  to  40 
minutes  with  pan  covered  part  of  time. 

Serve  with  any  sauce. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Crumb  a  pound  of  dry  bread.  Wash  Vi>  lb-  currants.  Wash 
and  chop  1  lb.  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  Sultana  raisins.  %  lb. 
of  mixed  nut  meats  chopped,  the  major  portion  to  be  blanched 
almonds  and  black  walnuts,  with  some  pistashio  nuts  and  pine 
kernels.  V2  lb.  citron  chopped  fine  or  ground.  1  scant  cup  of 
chopped  candied  or  preserved  cherries. 

Add  21/i>  cups  sugar  and  juice  of  3  lemons  and  stir.  Mix  in 
V2  enp  melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  4  or  5  weU  beaten 
eggs      Steam  as  a  plum  pudding.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 


42  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKINC 


CROWS  NEST. 

Two  cups  Hour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking- 
powder.  Mix  and  seive  twice.  '  Rub  in  a  piece  of  butter  size  of 
walnut.  Stir  in  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter  or  soft  dough.  Have 
baking  tin  ready  half  filled  with  sliced  apples,  over  which  has 
been  sprinkled  a  cup  of  sugar,  some  butter  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Pour  in  the  batter  and  spread  evenly  over  apples 
Bake  in  quick  oven.     Serve  with  lemon  saiice. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA. 

Add  one  cup  tapioca  and  a  teaspoon  salt  to  a  generous  quart 
of  hot  water,  cook  until  clear;  remove  from  stove  and  stir  in 
one  cup  sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla.  Have  prepared  six  ap- 
ples, peeled,  quartered  and  cooked  with  1  to  iy2  cups  sugar 
and  as  little  water  as  will  cook  them;  when  done  turn  into 
dish  alternately  with  the  cooked  tapioca.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Ileal  one  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  when  hot  stir  in  1 
cup  minute  tapioca  and  a  teaspoon  salt,  cook  10  minutes,  remove 
from  heat.  Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  beat  more ; 
turn  the  beaten  eggs  into  the  cooked  tapioca  and  stir  well  add- 
ing one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Serve  hot  or  cold  witb  sweetened 
cream. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

Boil  one  cup  rice.  Beat  three  eggs,  add  to  them  one  cup 
sugar  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt.  One 
half  cup  each  coeoanut  and  raisins,  half  teaspoon  vanilla  and  a 
little  melted  butter,  if  you  wish.  Stir  in  the  boiled  rice  and  bake 
three-fourth  hour  in  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  sauce  or  cream. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  43 


Fruit  Salads 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

4  apples,  3  oranges,  3  bananas,  1  cup  pineapple,  1  cup  dates, 
or  T/_>  cup  candied  cherries,  all  cut  in  small  pieces  or  diced,  'A: 
cup  chopped  black  walnut  meats;  V2  fiup  chopped  cocoanut  may 
be  added,  or  not. 

Serve  with   a   salad  dressing  and  whipped  cream. 

APPLE  SALAD. 

Six  apples.  3  or  4  nicely  ripened  bananas,  2  cups  dates.  Cut 
apples  in  small  pieces,  slice  bananas,  wash,  pit  and  cut  dates  in 
rwo  or  three  pieces1.  Any  other  fruit  may  be  added  if  desired. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  prepared  as  follows:  Whip  one  pint 
of  cream,  add  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  one-half  tea- 
■uDOii  vanilla. 

Pom-  one-half  of  cream  over  salad  and  mix:  the  balance  oi 
cream  to  be  used  by  placing  a  spoonful  on  each  individual  dish 
of  salad  as  it  is  served,  or  if  served  in  salad  bowl  spread  whip- 
ped cream  over  fruit. 

TUTTI  FRUITI  SALAD. 

I1-  cups  stewed  prunes  sweetened     1  cup  orange 

1  cup  pineapple  diced  4  diced  apples 

2  dozen  marsh  mallows  quartered     1  pint  whipped  cream. 

( "ook  prunes  quite  rich,  when  cold  pit  and  quarter  them.  Dice 
the  pineapple,  and  if  fresh,  place  in  a  bowl  with  the  diced 
orange,  and  sprinkle  with  l->  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  let  stand 
about  an  hour.     Then  add  to  the  prunes  with  the  marshmallows 


44  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

and  diced  apples  last.  Sweeten  to  taste.  A  half  cup  of  nut  meats 
may  be  added  if  liked,  black  walnuts  or  pecans  are  best.  Pine- 
apple may  be  omitted  or  substitute  some  other  fruit.  Mix  in  part 
of  whipped  cream,  and  balance  spread  over  top;  or,  if  served 
individually,   place   a   spoonful   on  each   serving. 

WHIPPED  CREAM 

One  pint   sweet   cream  whipped  stiff.     Stir   in   1   tablespoon 
powdered  sugar  and  y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 


BREAD  MAKIM;  AND  BREAD  BAKING  4,3 


Pies 

PIE  CRUST 

This  recipe  will  make  upper  and  lower  crusts  for  three  pies. 
One  cuip  lard,  three  cups  of  unsifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  mix  dry  ingredients  and 
sift  twice.  Add  shortening,  mix  thoroughly  by  rubbing — briskly 
between  the  hands  and  fingers. 

Bring  a  portion  of  the  dough  to  one  side  of  bowl  and  moisten 
with  cold  water.  Roll  out  on  a  board  that  has  been  floured 
slightly.     Add  water  to  remainder  of  dough  as  soon  as  needed. 

PIE  CRUST. 

Mix  and  sift  2  cups  flour,  1 '  ^  teaspoons  salt,  ( -  teaspoor 
baking-powder  into  mixing  bowl;  add  two-third  cup  of  lard  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  a  fork,  now  work  lightly  and  briskly  be- 
tween tlic  hands  until  it  looks  mealy,  do  not  press  the  dough 
together  or  the  tendency  will  be  to  toughen  the  crust. 

Add  two-third  cuip  cold  water  and  mix  and  bring  dough  to- 
gether with  fork.  Place  on  an  evenly  floured  board  and  roll 
out  very  thin,  then  fold  the  long  way,  folding  one  end  over  to 
the  center  of  the  sheet,  then  bring  the  other  mid  over  and  meet 
in  the  center.  Xow  make  one  fold  the  other  way.  and  you  will 
have  four  folds  or  layers:  this  adds  to  making  the  crust  flakey. 
To  further  add  to  the  flakiness  of  the  crust,  cover  the  paste  just 
made  with  a  napkin  and  place  in  the  refrigerator  or  a  cool  place 
to  chill:  this  can  be  done  very  conveniently  while  the  filling  is 
being  prepared.     To  roll  foe  the  pi*'  tins,  take  the  cooled  paste 


46  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

and  cut  in  pieces  according  to  the  number  of  crusts  desired, 
and  roll.  Avoid  mixing-  scraps  with  the  fresh  paste.  All  in- 
gredients and  utensils  used  in  making  pie  crust  should  be  as 
cold  as  possible.  The  mixing  bow]  should  be  cold,  the  lard  and 
flour  chilled  and  water  ice  cold,  and  the  hands  use  no  more  than 
necessary. 

APPLE  PIE. 

Kill  a  pie  crust  with  sliced  apples  a  little  more  than  level 
full,  for  a  medium  sized  pie,  take  a  cup  of  sugar*,  add  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  fiour,  mix  well,  or  sift  over  the  apples,  add  bits  01 
butter,  and  eight  or  ten  whole  cloves  for  seasoning.  Cover  with 
upper  crust  and  bake  for  30  to  40  minutes  in  hot  oven,  reducing 
heat  after  12  to  15  minutes. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

Fill  a.  pic  (Must  barely  full  of  pitted  sour  cherries,  IV2  CUPS 
sugar,  2  rounding  teaspoons  of  flour,  sifted  with  the  sugar  into 
The  pie,  butter  to  suit  taste.  Moisten  edges  with  water,  and 
cover  with  nipper  crust.  Bake  30  to  40  minutes  in  hot  overt, 
reducing  heat  after  12  to  15  minutes. 

MOCK   CHERRY   PIE. 

One  cup  of  cranberries,  stewed  and  worked  through  a  col- 
ander, V/A  cups  sugar,  1  cup  of  boiled  Sultana  raisins,  1  heaping 
teaspoon  of  flour  mixed  with  sugar,  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Mix 
nil   and   bake   with  two   crusts. 

RAISIN  PIE 

Two  cups  of  boiled  seedless  raisins,  :;  t  eup  sugar  with  heaping 
teaspoon  of  flour,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  butter.  Put 
raisins  in  crust,  spread  on  sugar,  add  lemon,  juice  and  grated 
rind,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  add  upper  crust. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  47 


LEMON  PIE. 

Filling  for  two  pies.  Use  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  white 
of  one,  beat  well;  add  one  cup  of  milk,  y$  cup  melted  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  add  to  this  mixture  two  cups  sugar  and  four  table- 
spoons of  flour,  that  have  been  mixed  and  sifted  twice.  When 
it  is  well  beaten,  stir  in  six  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice.  Now 
heal  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  that  you  have  left  and  add  them 
to  the  filling,  and  turn  into  unbaked  crusts  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


LEMON  PIE. 


Beat  yolks  of  three  eggs,  stir  in  gradually  1  cup  of  sugar, 
then  add  a  small  lump  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind;  dissolve  1  tablespoon  of 
starch  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  this  to  mixture  and  turn  into 
i\  double-boiler;  stir  steadily  and  pour  in  1*4  cups  of  hot  water 
and  boil  about  5  minutes.  Turn  into  a,  baked  crust,  and  use  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  for  frosting.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


MINCE  PIE. 

Take  mince  meat  if  fresh  made,  sufficient  to  fill  a.  pie  tin, 
lined  with  pie  paste  or  crust,  level  full.  If  mince  meat  has  been 
made  some  time,  put  in  sauce  pan  amount  required,  heat, 
moisten  ii  nee<-tfsairy,  use  cider,  jelly  or  liquid  from  any  sweet 
pickle  without  onwn,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter. 

When  well  heated  and  seasoned  fill  pie  crust,  add  upper 
crust,  put  in  hot  oven  at  once.  Reduce  heat  as  soon  as  crust 
begins  to  brown,  bake  in   all   30  minutes. 


4S       BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

CREAM  PIE. 

2  cups  mill?  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  1    tablespoon  cornstarch 
::  i  cup  sugar                                      Butter  size  of  walnut 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Take  the  o  yolks,  beat  light,  add  milk,  sugar,  butter  and 
salt  and  place  in  double  boiler.  Moisten  cornstarch  and  whip 
into  the  hot  ingredients.  Boil  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  add 
vanilla.  Beat  the  three  whites  to  stiff  froth,  add  a  tablespoon 
of  powdered  sugar. 

Kill  baked  crust  and  spread  the  whites  over  smoothly,  brown 
<  arefully  in  hot  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 


Melt  one  square  of  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  add  ingredients 

as  for  cream  pie,  also  frost  and  bake  as  cream  pie. 


COCOANUT  PIE. 

Prepare  the  filling  as  for  cream  pie,  adding  ^  cup  of  fresh 
grated  or  shredded  cocoannt.  Frost,  sprinkle  top  with  cocoanut 
and  brown  as  cream  pie. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

l"  2  cups  milk  :]  eggs 

1  ■  cup  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

Pinch  salt. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar,  add  milk,  vanilla  and  salt.  Bake  in  an 
unbaked  crust. 


BR£AD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  49 


50  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


♦      BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKTNG  51 


52  BREAD  MAKING  AM)  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKTNG  53 


54       BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  55 


bC  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  57 


58  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  59 


60  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  61 


t>2  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAR  IN*, 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  63 


64  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AM)  BREAD  BAKING  65 


Mince  Meats 

MTNCE  MEAT. 

2  lbs.  beef  1   teaspoon  cloves 

1   lb.  suet  ]   teaspoon  cinnamon 

1    lb.  citron  2  teaspoon  salt 

1   It),  raisins  '-teaspoon  pepper 

1   lb.  seeded  raisins  ]   peck  apples 

1    Hi.  seedless  raisins  6  oranges 

1   11).  currants  4  lemons 

i    lb.  brown  sugar  Sugar 

1  4  Hi.  candied  lemon  Sweet  eider 

;  ;  lb.  candied  orange 

Boil  the  beef  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  while  cooking; 
run  it  through  the  food  chopper,  also  the  siiet  unless  it  can  1)-' 
chopped  in  a  chopping  howl,  which  is  much  better.  The  citron, 
orange,  and  lemon  peel  should  be  run  through  the  food  chopper. 
Prepare  the  currants  and  raisins  by  washing  well,  and  the  latter 
may  be  chopped. 

Mix  all  together.  Prepare  the  apples,  they  should  be  chopped 
and  added  to  the  mixture  at  once,  followed  with  the  lemon  and 
orange  juice,  and  the  outside  grating  of  a  lemon  and  orange 
Add  brown  sugar  and  spices.  !'se  sweet  eider  to  moisten  if  it. 
can  be  had.  The  liquid  from  sweet  peach,  pear  or  crabapple 
pickles  is  very  good,  odds  and  ends  in  jelly  can  be  used  to 
good  advantage.  In  case  vinegar  is  used  in  mince  meat  it  is 
best  not  to  use  lemon  juice.  Mix  all  ingredients  and  add  granu- 
lated sugar  to  sweeten,  set  on  range,  cook  one  to  two  hours,  do 
no1  scorch.  A  quantity  can  be  made  up  and  used  as  needed;  it 
will  keep  as  long  as  the  weather  is  cool.  Cold  mince  meat  can  be 
heated  and  added  to  when  wanted.  Sometimes  more  apples, 
sugar  or  moisture  are  Deeded. 


66  HliKAl)  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Miscellaneous  Cooking 


BOILED  RICE. 

In  many  countries,  rice  is  the  chief  article  of  food.  More  rice 
is  used  than  any  other  grain,  with  the  possible  exception  of 
wheat. 

in  southern  states  rice  is  as  commonly  used,  as  the  potato 
in  the  north.  There  are  but  few  varieties  or  grades  of  rice  in 
our  markets.  Jap  head  rice,  a  high  grade,  and  Carolina  head 
rice,  with  the  cheaper  grades,  are  the  kinds  we  use.  Wild  rice 
can  also  be  had,  il   is  used  principally  in  soups. 

Rice  should  be  washed  in  several  waters.  When  the  water 
does  not  turn  milky  the  rice  is  clean.  Plenty  of  water  should 
be  used  in  cooking,  and  it  must  be  boiling  hot  when  the  rice  is 
not  in. 

To  one  cup  of  idee,  which  will  make  a  medium  mess,  have 
two  quarts  of  water  boiling  and  salted.  Drop  rice  slowly  into 
water,  which  should  be  kept  boiling,  and  boil  steadily  until  grains 
are  soft,  which  usually  takes  25  minutes.  Do  not  stir  the  rice 
but  try  bottom  of  kettle  with  fork,  to  scrape  loose  any  kernels 
that  may  begin  to  stick. 

A' hen  rice  is  done  it  may  be  drained  through  a  colander,  then 
put  back  in  kettle,  or  if  there  is  not  a  great  deal  of  water  on 
1h"  rice  il  need  not  be  drained.  Add  cup  of  milk  and  set  hack 
on   range  to  keep   hot. 


BREAD  MAKING   AND  BREAD  BAKING  61 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

Prepare  the  turkey  in  the  usual  way  for  roasting.  Put  in 
roaster  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  using  hands  to 
rub  seasoning  into  flesh  both  inside  and  out.  Stuff  the  fowl 
with  the  dressing  that  should  be  prepared  and  ready.  Close  up 
the  opening  by  stitching  or  covering  witli  a,  while  cloth  and 
hasting  it  fast. 

Roast  from  3  to  4  hours  according  to  size  and  age  of  fowl. 
Lift  turkey  from  pan  and  if  there  is  an  abundance  of  urease. 
turn  off  some  and  make  brown  gravy. 

TURKEY  DRESSING. 

Put  the  giblets  of  the  fowl  through  a  meat  chopper,  season 
and  cook  until  tender.  Soak  a  two  quart  pan  of  dry  bread 
; -rusts  in  cold  water,  drain  and  add  the  giblets  to  the  moistened 
Lread.  Fry  and  brown  in  butter  3  or  4  onions  and  add  to  the 
dressing,  with  some  butter  and  season  to  taste,  with  salt,  pep- 
per, celery  and  sage.  Mix  well,  set  on  range  in  a  pan  and 
,\  hen  well  heated,  stuff  the  fowl. 

BEEF  POT  ROAST. 

Prepare  a  five  pound  roast  of  the  round,  rump  or  shoulder 
by  washing,  drying  and  flouring  it.  Use  a  round  bottom  iron 
kettle  if  you  have  one,  set  it  on  the  tire  with  about  four  ounces 
<>f  suet  cut  in  fine  pieces. 

When  suet  is  well  fried  out,  put  in  the  meat  and  roast  until 
browned  on  all  sides:  cul  a  small  onion  in  two  and  add  it  to 
The  roast  with  boiling  water  to  cover. 

Cook  until  tender,  if  more  water  is  needed  add  some.  Allow 
meat  to  brown  down  before  removing  from  kettle;  when  done 
remove  from  kettle  and  use  grease  for  brown   gravy. 


68  BREAD  .MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

BROWN  GRAVY. 

I  se  the  grease  from  a  pot  roast  for  brown  gravy.  It  there 
is  more  grease  than  needed,  take  out  some.  '  _>  to  %  cup  is  suf- 
ficient. Have  kettle  with  grease  frying  hot.  add  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  Hour,  stir  while  browning,  add  three  cups  cold 
water,  cook  and  stir  until  well  thickened.     Season  to  taste. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

One  3  to  5  Lbs.  beeJ  shank  2  cups  chopped  cabbag 

3  to  6  tablespoons  barley  1    cup  chopped  carrots 

1    cup  chopped  rutabaga  or  turnips       2  chopped  onions. 

Cook  soup  bone  a  Hew  hours  and  skim,  add  vegetables  time 
required  for  cooking  varies  in  order  named,  rutabagas,  carrot;-, 
cabbage,  turnips,  onions,  etc.  l>oil  pearled  barley  in  separate 
water  and  add.  15  or  20  minutes  before  soup  is  done.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  a  Pew  celery  leaves  may  be  added  to  flavor. 

CREAM  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Strain  one  can  tomatoes  through  a  sieve.  Add  '4  teaspoon 
soda,  bring  to  a  boil  and  skim,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Scald  two  quarts  of  milk  and  add  with  a  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs  to  the  tomato  and  serve. 

MINNEAPOLIS  BAKED  BEANS. 

3  cups  Navy   be'ans  1    teaspoon  salt 

I.  oz.  salt  pork.  3   tablespoons  sugar 

1   teaspoon  table  mustard  Few  dashes  pepper 

One   onion   size  of  walnut. 

Wash  beans,  and  put  them  with  all  ingredients  in  half  gallon 
jar      Fill  jar  with  cold  water;  bake  6  to  8  hours  or  all  night. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING       69 
BAKED  BEANS. 

3  cups  Navy  beans  1   teaspoon  table  mustard 

1 4  to  l/2  lb.  salt  pork  2  or  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1   teaspoon  ground   mustard  ]    teaspoon  salt,  little  pepp<  r. 

Soak  beans  ove]  night,  drain  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Boi] 
one  minute,  drain.  Put  in  half  gallon  jar  with  pork  and  season- 
ings, cover  with  water.  Halve  5  to  8  hours,  add  hot  water  as 
the  beans  become  dry. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

.  stew  the  chicken  in  plenty  of  water,  there  should  be  a  quart 
or  more  of  gravy  when  done.  'Pake  chicken  from  kettle.  Leave 
gravy  and  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  tiour  to  thicken. 

When  cool  remove  meal  from  bones  and  place  in  a  baking- 
nan,  that  has  been  lined  with  rich  biscuit  crust  about  one-third 
inch  thick.  When  well  tilled,  pour  over  the  meat  a  cup  or  two 
of  the  thickened  gravy,  balance  can  be  used  for  other  purposes. 

Place  an  upper  crust,  well  perforated,  on  the  meat  pie  and 
bake.  Serve  hot.  A  pound  or  two  of  stewed  veal  mixed  with 
the  chicken  is  cheaper,  but  the  difference  in  taste  will  hardly  be 
noticed. 

PRESSED    VEAL. 

;$  lbs.  to  5  lbs.  veal  S'chives 

1   lb.  salt  pork  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cook  the  meat  and  season  while  cooking.  When  done  take 
from  liquid,  cool, 'remove  bones  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  cut  a 
small  quanty  of  schives  in  short  lengths,  and  mix  with  the  meat. 
Warm  the  liquid  that  meat  was  cooked  in  and  add  it  to  the 
meat,  turn  all  in  a  pan  to  mold.     Slice  cold. 


in  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

VEAL  LOAF. 

2  Lbs.   vea)  ■  '>  eggs 

1  lb.  beet'  J/2  lb.  bread  crumbs 

1  lb.  salt  pork  1   teaspoon  sail 

1  onion  Pepper. 

Put  meal  through  a  meal  chopper  and  add  seasoning,  and  the 
chopped  onion  if  desired.  Moisten  the  bread  crumbs  in  milk, 
and  add  with  the  well  beaten  eggs  to  the  meat  and  mix  well, 
adding  one  half  cup  milk  to  prevent  the  loaf  being  dry.  Form 
into  loaf  and  hake  2!/2  hours  in  roaster.  May  be  served  hot 
or  cold. 

MEAT  LOAF  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Prepare  a  meal  Loaf,  and  when  baked,  remove  to  a  hot 
platter  and  set  in  a  warm  place. 

Work  the  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve. 
Add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  Hour,  dissolved  in  one-half  cup 
of  water,  and  salt   and  pepper  to   taste. 

Turn  sauce  into  pan  that  meal  was  removed  from  and  cook 
about  ten  minutes,  stirring  well  from  the  bottom.  Pour  sauce 
over  the    meal    loaf,   garnish  with    parsley.      Serve  hot. 

MEAT  LOAF. 

2  lb.  round  steak  3  eggs 

1    lb.  fresh  pork  '-  teaspoon  sage 

%     Jh.  dry  bread,  crumbed  1   teaspoon   salt 

3  medium  sized    onions  Pepper 

Put  meat  through  meat  chopper,  and  mix  in  the  seasonings. 
Moisten  the  bread  crumbs  in  milk  or  water  and  add  with  the 
chopped  onions  to  the  meat.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  form 
tin'  mixture  into  a   loaf  and  place  in  a   roaster. 

Turn  in  a  little  water.  Bake  two  hours.  Tins  is  very  fine, 
not   expensive,  and  will  serve  a  do/en  adults. 


BREAD  MAKING   AND  BREAD  BAKING  71 

BROWN  FRICASSEED  CHICKEN. 

<  lit  every  joint  separate,  the  back  in  two  pieces,  the  breast 
in  two  pieces,  and  dip  them  in  Hour,  place  in  hot  melted  butter 
in  roaster,  salt,  pepper  and  one  onion  sliced.  Let  roast  for  20 
minutes  or  half  hour,  then  pour  a  little  hoi  water  on  and  roast 
until  tender.  Remove  chicken  from  pan.  make  brown  gravy 
and  pour  over  or  serve  separate. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN  WITH  BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

Cut  a  chicken  up  small.  15oil  until  tender;  make  a  thicken- 
ing of  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  dissolved  in  water. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  butter  will  not  be  needed  un- 
less chicken  is  loan.  Break  biscuit  in  half,  dip  in  I  he  hot  gravy 
and  lay  on  hot  platter.  Arrange  chicken  on  same  platter,  pour 
over  plenty  of  gravy.     Serve  at   once. 

STEW   WITH    BAKING   POWDER   BISCUITS. 

pare  a  good  veal  slew,  and  set  it  on  to  cook  in  plenty 
of  water;  after  cooking  some  time,  season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  generous  piece  of  butter.  Veal  should  cook  2%  to 
3  hours.  When  stew  is  done  add  two  heaping  tahlespoons  flour 
dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  lei  simmer  a  little  longer.  Remove 
meal  horn  kettle  to  hot  platter.  Split  biscuits  while  hot  and  dip 
them   into  hoi   gravy,   place  on   philter  and  serve  al   once. 

STEW  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

Mutton,  veal  or  chicken  are  usually  used  with  dumplings. 
The  dumplings  should  be  prepared  when  meal  is  done.  Make 
a  very  soft  dough  with  two  cups  flour,  sifted  with  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder  and  a  little  sail  in  it:  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
with  milk  to  make  a  dough  that  will  drop  from  a  tablespoon. 
Remove  part  of  meal  from  keltic  if  necessary.  Then  with  a 
tablespoon   cut  the  dough    from  the  mixing  bowl   and  drop  into 


7:>       BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

kettle,  dip  spoon  in  liquid  each  time  which  will  prevent  dough 
sticking,  finish  as  quickly  as  possible  and  cover,  at  once. 

Slew  should  be  boiling  when  dumplings  are  put  in  and 
should  I, oil  20  minutes  without  uncovering.  Serve  hot  on  platter 
with  meat. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Fresh  fish  after  being  cleaned,  should  be  washed  thoroughly 
in  cold  water  slightly  salted,  and  left  in  salted  water  until  used. 

Place  whole  fish  in  baking  pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
inside  and  out.  rubbing  in  seasoning  well  with  the  hands.  Dot 
with  few  pieces  of  butter  and  hake  moderately  half  an  hour,  then 
add  cup  hot  water,  and  one  or  two  sliced  onions,  and  hake  one 
or  two  hours  longer,  according  to  size  of  fish,  basting  frequently. 

If  fish  is  lean,  he  more  generous  with  butter  in  baking.  Re- 
move to  hot  platter  just  before  serving. 

SCALLOPED  FISH. 

Bone  and  flake  any  cold  fish,  place  in  baking  dish,  alternate 
rolled  crackers  and  fish,  adding  some  butter  and  seasoning, 
moisten  with  milk,  turn  over  fop  a  cup  .or  two  of  white  sauce 
and  then  bake. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  OYSTERS. 

!/>  lb.  spaghetti  1    pint   oysters 

1    can  corn  2  cups  broken  crackers 

•'i  tablespoons  butter  1   pint  milk 

Salt  and   pepper 

Boil  spaghetti  in  usual  way,  turn  into  colander  to  drain 
then  pour  over  it  one  or  two  cups  of  cold  water,  which  will  pre- 
venl   its  sticking  together. 

When  drained,  place  with  other  ingredients  in  Layers,  in 
baking  dish.     Add  milk,  butter  and  season  to  suit.     Bake 


BKEAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  Ti 

SPANISH  SPAGHETTI. 

1  package  spaghetti  V2  lb-"  pork  steak 

V  2   H>.   beefsteak  5  onions 

1   can  tomatoes 

Break  up  the  spaghetti  in  small  pieces  and  drop  into  salted 
boiling  water:  there  must  be  plenty  of  water,  about  3  quarts,  to 
prevent  spaghetti  from  sticking  together. 

Boil  steady  30  minutes.  Turn  into  a  colander  to  drain, 
when  drained,  put  into  baking  dish  and  add  can  of  tomatoes. 
The  best  meat  to  use  is  round  steak,  and  pork  shoulder  which 
should  be  run  through  a   meat   chopper. 

Mix,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  until  browned. 
Prepare  medium  sized  onions,  cut  fine,  season  and  fry  until 
browned;  add  onions  and  meat  to  spaghetti.  Add  a  little  more 
salt  and  pepper  and  scant  half  teaspoon  paprika.  Bake  one- 
half  hour;  in  case  of  baking  dry  add  a  small  amount  of  hot  water 
This  dish  will  serve  10  to  12  people. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  TOMATOES. 

Break  one-half  package  of  spaghetti  into  short  pieces,  and 
drop  into  boiling  salted  water.  Boil  20  minutes,  drain,  turn 
into  baking  dish,  add  one-half  can  tomatoes  and  mix.  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  salt  and  paprika. 

Bake  30  minutes  in  slow  oven.  One-half  cup  grated  cheese,. 
with  a  small  onion  chopped   Hue.  may  be  added  to  this  dish. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE. 

Break  a  pound  package  of  macaroni  in  small  pieces,  drop 
into  boiling  salted  water,  boil  until  soft,  drain  through  a  colandei 
and  turn  a  cup  or  two  of  cold  water  over  it.  When  drained  put 
into  baking  dish,  add  milk  until  nearly  covered.  Spread  on 
about  one-fourth  pound  grated  cheese,  some  salt,  butter  and 
paprika  to  suit  taste.  Bake  in  slow  oven  30  to  40  minutes,. 
covered   part   of  time  to  prevent   baking  dry. 


74  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKINCJ 

CREAMETTES  AND  CHEESE. 

Prepare  a  package  of  creamettes  the  same  as  macaroni,  cook- 
ing about  15  minutes,  and  place  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  2 
or  •'!  cups  of  white  sauce,  and  one  cup  grated  cheese  and  season. 
Bake  30  to  45  minutes. 

CREAMED  SALMON. 

Prepare  a  can  of  red  salmon  by  removing  hones  and  skin; 
break  in  pieces  suitable  for  serving  and  lay  on  a  platter.  For 
the  gravy  take  a  pint  of  milk,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
or  a  little  more,  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  dissolved 
in  a  little  water. 

Heat  milk,  add  butter,  thickening  and  seasoning,  cook  slow- 
ly until  thickened,  and  pour  over  salmon  on  platter,  add  a  few 
dashes  of  paprika,  serve  hot. 

SALMON  BUTTER  GRAVY. 

Prepare  can  salmon  on  platter,  se1  in  oven  to  warm;  braid 
together  in  sauce  pan  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  flour  and 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  add  boiling  water  (about  l1/.  cups)  stir- 
ring steadily,  boil  a  few  minutes:  the  gravy  should  be  spongy 
when  done.    Turn  over  salmon,  serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  SALMON. 

Prepare  a  can  of  red  salmon  by  removing  bones  and  skin;  or 
boil  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  fresh  salmon,  when  cold,  flake. 
Butter  baking  dish  and  put  in  Layer  of  rolled  crackers,  and  then 
layer  of  flaked  salmon,  with  pieces  of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper; 
repeat  with  oilier  layers  until  pan  is  full,  add  milk  lo  thoroughly 
moisten. 

It  is  well  to  set  pan  aside  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  add 
more  milk"  if  needed.     Bake  slowly  one  hour. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING       75 
SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

.1    pint  oysters  l  •_>   lb.   crackers 

.Milk  i<»  moisten  Butter  size  of  ;ui  egg 

Pepper  and  salt 
Crush  crackers  by  rolling  with  rolling  pin;  place  layer  in 
baking  dish,  follow  with  layer  of  oysters  and  so  on  till  all  ingredi- 
ents are  used,  add  butter  in  small  pieces,  with  seasoning,  add 
milk  to  moisten  well  or  cover  ingredients.  Bake  until  nicely 
browned. 

SCALLOPED  CORN. 

1   can  sweet  corn  '  L>  lb.  crackers 

Milk  to  moisten  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Salt  ami  pepper. 
Roll  crackers,  place  ingredients  in  layers  in  baking  pan,  add 
butter    and    seasonings,     moisten    with    milk,    bake    till    nicely 
browned. 

CREAMED  CORN. 

i  one  can  of  coin  in  stew  pan.  add  one  heaping  teaspoon 
ot  floor  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper  to 
taste  and  a  piece  of  butter,  '  •_.  to  1  cup  of  milk,  boil  a  few 
minutes. 

CREAMED  PEAS. 

Creamed  peas,  beans  ami  asparagus  may  he  prepared  like 
'•learned    corn. 

SUCCOTASH. 

§  ;.k  on.'  cup  lima  beans  over  night.  Boil  until  tender,  drain, 
and  cool  with  cold  water  and  remove  skins,  put  on  to  boil  again 
in  water  to  cove)'.  Cook'  about  one-half  hour,  add  one  can  corn, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  boil  slowly  a  few  minutes 
longer.     Canned  lima  beans  mav  be  used  instead  of  dry  ones. 


76  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Take  one  can  of  tomatoes  or  same  amount  of  fresh  ones, 
and  place  in  stew  pan  and  put  on  to  heat,  add  heaping  teaspoon 
of  sugar.  V2  teaspoon  of  salt,  some  pepper,  a  Lump  of  butter  tin- 
size  of  a  walnut,  and  about  2  cups  of  dry  bread  or  crackers, 
broken  in   pieces,  cook  slowly  a   few  minutes. 

BOILED  BEETS. 

Boil  medium  sized  beets  whole,  without  cutting  or  bruising 
the  skin.  When  done  peel  and  slice  and  keep  warm,  serve  hot 
with  vinegar  sauce. 

VINEGAR  SAUCE. 

y2  cup  vinegar  %   cup  sugar 

1  cup  hot  water  2  teaspoons  Hour 

1  tablespoon  butter 
Mix  flour  and  sugar  and  pinch   of  salt,  stir  in  the  vinegar 
and  cook  until  clear.     Add  tablespoon  butter  and  cup  hot  water, 
stir  and  pour  over  sliced  beets. 

CREAMED   CARROTS. 

Peel  carrots  as  thin  as  possible,  cut  in  small  pieces,  wash 
and  put  on  to  boil  in  hot  water.     Cook  until  tender. 

Dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a  little  water  and  stir  it 
in  with  a  half  cup  of  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Cook  slowly  a  few  minutes  longer. 

BAKED  STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  neatly  an  opening  in  the  stem  ends  of  medium  ripe 
firm  tomatoes,  saving  piece  cut  out  to  be  replaced  for  cover. 
Scrape  out  center  of  tomatoes  carefully,  and  place  pulp  in  sieve 
and  rub  through.  Crumb  amount  of  dry  bread  desired,  chop 
some  celery  xcry  tine,  mix  with  bread  crumbs;  to  this  add  some 
minced  cooked  meat  of  any  kind,  season  with  salt,  pepper  ami 
butter.  Moisten  with  the  strained  tomato,  mix  and  -€1!  the 
tomato  shells,  bake  30  minutes. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING       77 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

i  ut  tops  from  green  peppers,  scrape  out  insides  and  soak 
peppers  in  salted  water  for  a  few  hours.  Remove,  drain  and 
stuff  with  bread  erwmbs  and  cold  cooked  meat  minced,  chopped 
celery  and  onion  moistened  with  water,  seasoned  with  butter, 
salt   and  pepper,     Bake   10  minutes. 

MASHED  RUTABAGA. 

Select  rutabagas  thai  are  round,  smooth,  and  free  from 
toots:  peel  and  cut  in  thin  strips  or  slices,  put  on  to  boil  in  hot 
water.  Cook  until  tender,  drain,  season  with  sail  and  pepper 
and  a  piece  of  butter;  mash  well  and  serve. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

Select  medium  sized  smooth  turnips,  wash  and  cook  without 
I  eeling.  When  well  done,  drain  and  peel,  put  into  dish  and 
mash,  reason  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter.     Serve  hot. 

BAKED  SWEET   POTATOES. 

6  sweel   potatoes 
~2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  2  lemon,  butter,  salt 

Boil  six  medium  sized  sweel  potatoes,  one  for  each  person 
is  sufficient;  when  done,  peel  and  slice  lengthwise,  in  three  pieces. 
Place  layer  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  add 
;i  small  lump  of  butter  cut  in  pieces,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  with 
rind  if  liked,  add  pinch  of  salt.     Bake  until  slightly  browned. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 

Six  sliced  ripe  bananas,  1  cup  of  sugar.  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Place  in  baking  dish  with  sugar 
between  each,  layer,  turn  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice  over  top. 
sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of  sail,  and  part  of  grated  rind  of  lemon 
if  liked.     Bake  a  light  brown. 


78  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

CHILI  CON  CARNE. 

i1/^  lb.  round  steak  i   tablespoon   salt 

Y2  cup  suet  fat  1  teaspoon  paprika 

4  onions  1   tablespoon  of  vinegar 

1  can  tomatoes  2y2  cups  water 

1  quart  cooked  brown  beans 
■  Grind  round  steak  in  meat  chopper,  and  fry  brown  in  one- 
half  cup  of  suet  fat.  Strain  one  can  of  tomatoes,  and  put  them 
into  stew  pan.  and  add  the  meat,  with  four  medium  sized  onions 
chopped  fine,  and  the  seasoning,  salt,  paprika  and  vinegar.  Stir 
and  mix  well.  Cook  one-half  to  one  hour  on  slow  fire.  Add  the 
water  and  brown  or  kidney  beans  and  cook  or  simmer  on  slow 
fire  one  hour  longer. 

NOODLES. 

Noodles  are  to  the  Germans  what  macaroni  and  spaghetti 
are  to  Italians,  made  in  much  the  same  way  and  put  up  in  pack- 
ages and  sold  by  dealers.  Noodles  can  be  made  at  home  and 
usually  are  much  better  than  factory  made. 

This  recipe  will  make  a  small  mess,  using  part  water  is  for 
economy  only,  using  the  yolks  give  the  noodles  a  nice  color. 

Two  eggs  or  4  yolks  of  eggs  or  2  yolks  with  2  tablespoons 
water  mixed  well  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  flour  slowly  by 
sifting  and  mixing  with  spoon.  When  dough  is  quite  stiff  remove 
to  floured  moulding  board  and  work  in  more  flour.  The  dough 
should  be  rather  dry  or  very  stiff. 

Roll  out  very  thin  using  no  flour.  Roll  up  the  sheet  of  paste 
like  a  jelly  roll,  and  cut  very  thin.    Cook  about  15  or  20  minutes. 

NOODLES  AND  CHEESE. 

Use  as  many  noodles  as  desired,  add  a  few  cracker  crumbs, 
grated  cheese,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  milk  enough  to  cover. 
Bake  one-half  hour. 


BRKAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  70 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

Halve  hard  boiled  eggs  and  remove  the  yolks  and  press  them 
through  a  ricer  or  mash  finely.  Add  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Mix 
enough  salad  dressing  to  make  a  paste.  Refill  the  halved  whites. 
Serve  cold. 

EGGS  AND  CURRY  SAUCE. 

Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as  needed,  halve  them  and  place  on 
a  platter  flat  side  down,  pour  around  them  eurry  sauce  and 
serve  hot. 

SALMON  SLAW. 

1    can  salmon  Y2  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  qt.  chopped  cabbage  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  chopped  celery  Use  salad  dressing  to  moisten 

CREAM  SLAW. 

1   qt.  chopped  cabbage  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1   cup  chopped  celery  y2  teaspoon  pepper 

y2  cup  vinegar  U>  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  to  moisten. 

BEET  SLAW. 

(i   boiled  beets  chopped  fine  2  cups  red  cabbage  chopped  fine 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg  melted,  pour  over  the  beets  and 
cabbage,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  y2  cup  of  horse- 
radish, 2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Serve 
on  a  loll  nee  leaf. 


80  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD,  BAKING 

POTATO  SALAD. 

1    dozen  boiled  potatoes  1    pimento,  pepper  and  salt 

1    small  Bermuda  onion  2  cups  salad  dressing 

Small  bunch  of  chives  or  fresh  onion  tops 

Slice  cold  potatoes  and  a  small  onion,  if  wanted,  cut  chives 
ur  onion  tops  in  small  bits,  and  the  pimento  cut  in  small  pieces 
A  few  hard  boiled  eggs  may  be  sliced  and  added  if  desired.  Add 
salad  dressing  and  seasoning  in  layers  or  mix. 

CA2BAGE  SALAD. 

Shred  sweet,  tender  cabbage  as  fine  as  possible,  and  to  about 
two  quarts  add  one  small  pimento  and  a  small  amount  of  chives 
-°ut  tine.      Add  salad  dressing. 

RED  SALAD. 

1    quart  \-c(\  cabbage  1    pint  chopped  boiled  beets 

1  u  glass  horseradish  Pepper  and  salt 

Chop  cabba'ge  and  beets  separately,  add  horseradish,  pepper 
and  salt  and  mix. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

2  yolks  of  eggs  :;  i   teaspoon  salt 
x^2  teaspoon  mustard                          A  pinch  pepper 

1 ' ...  cups  olive  oil 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 

Have  all  utensils  and  ingredients  as  cold  as  possible.  Mix 
dry  ingredients  and  egg  yolks  in  a  bowl,  add  a  few  drops  of  vine- 
gar and  stir  until  smooth,  some  favor  a  silver  fork,  others  a  Dover 
beater,  either  way  the  stirring  must  be  steady  and  constant  ;  add 
oil  drop  by  drop  to  the  mixture  as  it  becomes  thick  add  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  to  thin.  ( Jontinue  si  irring  and  adding  oil  and 
lemon   juice  as  required  until  all  is  used. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  81 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1    cup   i- ream  1   teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  ]  •_>  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

2  tablespoons  sugar  •'!  tablespoons  vinegar 
2  tablespoons  butter 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Heat  cream  in  double  boiler.  Add  flour  dissolved  in  water. 
stir  steadily,  add  sugar,  cook  five  minutes,  partly  cool,  add  butter 
and  seasoning,  then  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs;  when  cool 
stir  in  vinegar. 

•lis  dressing  can  be  used  on  fruit  or  vegetable  salads. 
CHICKEN  SALAD. 

3   cups  cubed  chicken  !  :j   cup  broken  mil   meals 

2  e    ps  cubed  celery  2  cups  mayonnaise  dressing 

12  chopped  olives 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

1  at  the  waste  Leaves  from  head  lettuce,  halve  small  heads 
and  quarter  large  ones  as  desired.  Serve  on  individual  plates 
with  two  tablespoons  salad  dressing  on  each. 

SLICED  CUCUMBERS  (German  Style). 

Slice  very  thin  3  three -fourths  grown  cucumbers,  put  in  a 
china  dish,  sprinkle  on  1  tablespoon  salt  and  mix  well.  Let  stand 
an  hour  or  two.  Now  drain  and  press  out  with  the  hands  all 
the  brine  thai  is  possible,  put  hack  in  dish,  add  about  l/o  cup 
ijream,  a  few  dashes  pepper,  mix  slightly,  and  turn  on  1  to  ■> 
i  ablespoons  vinegar. 


82  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

6  eggs  :>  tablespoons  sugar 

D/2  teaspoons  mustard  '  •_»  eup  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  salt  l,4  eup  butter 

1   tablespoon  flour  1V2  cups  hot  water 

Bea1  eggs  very  light,  add  vinegar  and  beat  more,  dissolve 
mustard  in  water  and  add  it.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add  them 
i  nd  heat  well.  Set  on  range  in  double  boiler,  add  about  IV2  cups 
hot  water,  stir  constantly  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat, 
stir  in  butter  and  cool.  This  dressing  will  keep  if  kept  in  a  coo] 
place;  to  thin  stir  in  sweet  cream. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

-<j   boiled    potatoes  1  can  red  salmon 

!/>  Bermuda  onion 
Small  amount  of  chives  chopped  fine.  Salad  dressing  Slice 
eold  boiled  potatoes.  Place  layer  in  salad  dish.  Dot  liberally 
with  flaked  salmon.  Spread  over  this  part  of  salad  dressing, 
now  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  a  layer  of  salmon,  finishing 
with  a  generous  amount  of  dressing  and  finely  cut  chives  sprinkled 
on  top.     Do  not  mix. 

TABLE  MUSTARD. 

'4  tablespoons  mustard  J    eup  vinegar 

1    tablespoon  sugar  1    egg         Pinch  salt 

Mix  mustard  and  sugar.  Add  the  egg  and  beat  well,  turn  in 
the  vinegaf  slowly,  beating  briskly  until  smooth.  Add  salt,  set 
over  a  slow  fire,  stir  and  cook  about  five  minutes. 

CURRY   SAUCE. 

Cul  two  large  onions  fine,  fry  soft  in  butter.  Mix  a  table- 
spoon of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  a  pinch  of  ginger  and 
a  little  salt,  add  to  fried  onions,  mix  and  continue  frying,  adding 
slowly  a  cup  of  cold  water  or  meat  stock,  stirring  until  it  boils 
and  thickens. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  83 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  tablespoon  of 
floor,  when  well  blended,  turn  in  1 V2  cups  cold  milk  and  cook  until 
smooth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  while  cooking. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one-halt 
teaspoon  of  Lemon  extract,  one  cup  hot  water. 

Beat  egg  lightly,  braid  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  egg 
and  extract  and  beat  briskly.  Water  should  be  added  at  the  last 
minute  just  before  serving.  It  must  not  be  allowed  to  cook  any 
after  water  is  added  ! 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

1    cup  sugar  "2  teaspoons  cornstarch 

lVo  cups  water  1    lemon  (juice) 

Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch  well  together,  add  juice  of  1  lemon, 
pinch  of  salt,  pour  on  l1/;  cups  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  clear. 


84  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Sandwiches 


VEAL  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  or  grind  cold  veal,  mix  with  salad  dressing  and  spread 
on  buttered  bread  with  leaf  of  lettuce. 

The  following  combinations  make  very  good  fillings  for  sand- 
wiches. Chopped  olives  and  pickles  with  salad  dressing.  Minced 
ham  with  salad  dressing.  Minced  or  ground  beef  with  salad  dress- 
ing, with  or  without  chopped  pickles  or  pimentoes. 

BLUE  LABEL  CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Warm    and    soften   Blue   Label   cheese   in    a   double    boiler 
Spread  sandwiches  with  butter  then  with  the  softened  chees< 
A    bat'  of  lettuce   and  a   little  minced  pimento   may  be  used  if 
desired. 

OLIVES  AND  PIMENTO  SANDWICHES. 

(hop  olives  Hue  with  a  feAv  nut  meats  if  desired,  add  salad 
dressing  and  spread  on  buttered  bread,  with  minced  pimento  ami 
leaf  of  lei tuce. 

NUT  SANDWICHES. 

('hop  any  kind  of  nut  meats  and  mix  with  salad  dressing  to 
make  a  paste.  Butter  the  sandwich,  then  a  layer  of  the  filling 
with  a  leaf  of  lettuce. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  85 

RAISIN  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  about  equal  parts  of  raisins  and  nuts  and  add  salad 
dressing.    Spread  the  sandwiches,  using  leaf  of  lettuce  if  desired. 

EGG  WITH  PIMENTO  SANDWICHES. 

Grind  or  mash  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  salad  dressing  to 
moisten,  spread  lower  slice  with  mixture  and  minced  pimento. 
On  the  upper  slice  spread  the  plain  salad  dressing  with  a  leaf  of 
lettuce. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

To  finely  chopped  peanuts,  add  thick  salad  dressing  and 
spread  on  buttered  bread  with  leaf  of  lettuce. 


««        .         BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKI.\'(! 


Candy 


DIVINITY. 

'_'  cups  sugar  !/2  cup  corn  syrup 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  i/4  cup  water 

2  drops  extraei  almond  2  ^\  hil  «*s  of  eggs 

Add  to  the  half  cup  of  syrup  water  to  make  cup  three-fourths 
full,  turn  this  with  sugar  into  sauce  pan,  heat  slowly,  stirring 
until  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved,  hoi]  steady  without  stirring 
until  a  spoonful  dropped  into  -oh]  water  will  form  a  soft 
ball.  Remove  from  range  but  do  not  disturb  syrup.  Beat  whites 
of  two  eggs,  which  should  be  strictly  fresh,  to  a  stiff  froth  on  a 
platter  or  open  china  dish. 

Now  with  the  assistance  of  some  one  the  syrup  should  be 
added:  taking  the  sauce  pan  by  the  handle,  begin  pouring  syrup 
into  the  beaten  whites,  which  should  be  beaten  briskly  all  the  time 
Let  syrup  chain  from  sauce  pan  freely  without  scraping:  then 
add  flavoring  and  if  you  wish  some  nut  meats,  black  walnuts  are 
best.  Beat  steadily,  giving  it  your  attention  as  the  setting  point 
comes  very  suddenly,  an  indication  of  when  it  is  beaten  enough 
is  when  the  candy  begins  to  pull  heavily  on  the  fork,  then  it  should 
be  turned  quickly  on  a  buttered  tin.  It  should  harden  in  a  short 
1  ime. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

"_'  cups  sugar  Va  CUP  butter 

'A/4  cup  good  molasses  1  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 
Put  all  in  kettle  except  vanilla,  boil  briskly  until   the  hard 
ball   stage:   add  vanilla,   turn   in  shallow   buttered   pan.   make  a 
thin  sheet  not   more  than  one-third  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  when 
cool  break  in  pieces. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING        *        87 

PANOCHE. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  '  -  cup  cream 

2  tablespoons  butter  '  -  cup  nutmeats 

Vanilla  or  almond  flavor 
Pin   sugar,   butter  and  cream  in  sauce  pan,  and  stir  while 
heating;  cook  to  the  soft    ball   stage,  take  from  heat  and  beat, 
add   the   nut   meats   and    flavoring,   if   any.      When    it    begins   to 
thicken  turn  out   in  buttered  tin. 

FUDGE. 

2  cups  sugar  1    square  chocolate 

1    cup  milk  and  cream  1    tablespoon  butter 

(  ream  of  tartar 
Cook   sugar  and   milk,   add  chocolate,   cream  of  tartar  and 
I. idler,  cook  to  soft  ball  stage,  cool  on  platter,  then  heal  adding 
flavoring,  cut  when   eold. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Fondant:  In  a  granite  sauce-pan.  put  4  cups  cane  granulated 
sugar.  '  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  ;;4  cup  boiling  water,  set 
over  brisk  and  steady  heat,  stir  until  well  dissolved,  but  not  after 
syrup  begins  to  boil.  With  a  damp  cloth  remove  all  sugar  that 
may  stick  to  inside  of  sauce-pan! 

Avoil  snaking  or  moving  the  boiling  syrup  as  it  grains  easily. 
Boil  until  the  soft  ball  stage,  take  from  heat,  turn  into  bowl,  do 
•id  vera pf.  let  cool  until  it  will  not  burn  to  touch,  stir  steadily 
until  creamy  white;  turn  into  buttered  dish  to  harden. 

Creams:    Soften  fondant  by  heating  in  a  double-boiler,  shape 

as  desired  and  coat  with  melted  chocolate. 

Melted  Chocolate:  Put  unsweetened  chocolate  into  a  double 
boiler:  beat  very  slowly,  never  to  the  scalding  point  or  chocolate 
will  turn  gray.    Keep  lukewarm  while  coating. 


8S  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Uncooked  Fondant:  Mix  equal  amounts  of  whites  oi  eggs 
and  water,  add  powdered  sugar  enough  to  make  a  fondant  that 
will  mold  into  any  form  or  shape  desired;  place  on  waxed  paper 
to  harden,  which  will  take  from  six  to  twelve  hours.  Coal  with 
melted  ehocolate. 

Uncooked  Fondant:  Mix  1  cup  sweet  cream  with  enough 
powdered  sugar  lo  make  a  stiff  paste,  using  vanilla  or  almond 
flavoring  to  suit.  Roll  or  form  into  any  shapes  desired.  Use 
powdered  sugar  to  prevent  sticking  to  fingers;  place  on  waxed 
paper  to  harden.     Coat  with  melted  ehocolate. 

STUFFED  DATES. 

Clean  some  good  whole  dates.  Make  an  opening  in  the  side 
of  each  date  and  remove  the  pit.  Fill  opening  with  fondant  that 
is  not  very  hard.  Press  opening  in  date  together  and  roll  in  fine 
.-'ii  gar. 

MAPLE  FUDGE. 

2  cups  cane  granulated  sugar      '12  ('"P  maple  syrup  or  sugas 
2  cups  rich  milk  1  teaspoon   butter 

Vs  CUP  cocoa  nut 
Put  sugar,  milk  and  maple  syrup  or  sugar  into  sauce-pan  and 
heat,  stirring  until  dissolved,  cook  until  the  soft  ball  stage  and 
remove  from  fire,  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  beat  until  creamy; 
add  half  cup  chopped  cocoanut  or  a  cup  of  black  walnut  meats, 
turn  into  buttered  tins  and  mark  off. 

MAPLE   CANDY. 

2  cups  maple  sugar  (1  lb.)  ■"■  1   cup  black  walnut  meat.-, 

'•' \    cup   cream  V4   cup   water 

Cook  and  make  the  same  as  maple  fudge. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  89 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  best  molasses 

Vi  cup  butter 

Boil  until  it  will  form  a  firm  mass  or  ball  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.    Cool  and  pull  until  light  colored  and  creamy. 


90  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Pickles  and  Catsup 

PICCALILLI. 

is  large  green  tomatoes  -  cups  finely  cut  celery 

'2  quarts  finely  chopped  cabbage     1  quarl  vinegar 
4  green  peppers  1   cup  sugar 

1  i;i blespoon  mustard  seed 
Chop  tomatoes  and  peppers  fine  and  mix  V-^  cup  salt,  put  in 
muslin  bag  and  drain  over  night;  put  into  stone  jar  mixed  with 
cabbage  and  celery,  add  mustard  seed,  boil  vinegar  with  sugar  a 
few  minutes,  Let  cool,  turn  over  the  pickle.  This  pickle  will  keep 
much  better  if  pu1  in  Mason  jars  and  sealed. 

SWEET  PEACH  PICKLE. 

For  seven  pounds  of  peaches  peeled,  pitted  and  halved,  take 
■\l/2  to  -IV2  pounds  of  sugar  and  iy2  pints  of  vinegar.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  vinegar  for  about  10  minutes  with  3  or  4  sticks  of 
cinnamon  and  2  tablespoons  of  cloves,  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.  Now 
add  the  peaches,  hod  slowly  until  they  are  clear  or  a  fork  will 
pierce  them  easily,  skim  if  necessary.  Time  for  boiling  should 
lake  at  least  one-half  hour,  though  care  must  he  taken  that  they 
do  not  boil  to  pieces.  Remove  peaches  from  syrup,  then  put  them 
in  jars  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them,  which  may  he  strained  if 
wanted  clear. 

SWEET  PEAR  PICKLES. 

SWEET  CRAB  APPLE  PICKLES. 

Pear  pickles  may  he  made  the  same  as  peach  pickles.  Crab 
.ipples  should  he  steamed  slowly  until  skins  are  broken;  then 
put  fruit  iido  prepared  syrup  and  boil  slowly  until  tender,  put  in 
jars,  turn  on  syrup  which  can  be  drained  off  in  a  few  days  am! 
reheated  and  put  back  on  the  pickles,  this  adds  to  the  flavor  of 
the  pickles  ami  they  keep  better. 


BREAD  MAKING    VND  BREAD  BAKING  91 

CATSUP. 

1   peel?  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  sail 

•")  large  onions  1   tablespoon  whole  closes 

1   cup  sugar  1   tablespoon  celery  seed 

1  pint  vinegar  V2  teaspoon  paprika 

1    tablespoon  pepper 

("ut  out  stem  ends  and  dark  spots  of  firm,  ripened  tomatoes, 
but  do  not  peel;  peel  the  onions,  and  slice  very  thin,  add  to 
tomatoes  and  cook  until  soft,  strain  and  set  on  slow  fire  with 
cloves  and  celery  seed  tied  in  loose  muslin  bag,  boil  down  about 
one-half.  Add  sugar,  vinegar,  seasoning  and  balance  of  spices, 
and  boil  10  minutes  longer.  Take  out  spice  bag  and  seal  in 
bottles  or  jars. 

CATSUP. 

1    gallon  strained  tomatoes  8  tablespoons  mustard 

1  cup  sugar  14  teaspoon  red  pepper 
4  tablespoons  salt  1   pint  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  white  pepper 

Cook  slowly  until  it  thickens.    Seal  in  bottles  or  jars. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

(i  qts.  green  sliced  tomatoes        4  sticks  cinnamon 
10   medium  sized  onions  2   teaspoons  cloves 

2  red  peppers  I    tablespoon  mustard 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

1  qt.  vinegar 
Slice  the  tomatoes  and  mix  in  a  cup  of  salt,  let  set  over  night, 
drain  and  press  out  the  brine,  put  into  jars  in  alternate  layers. 
with  sliced  onions  and  sliced  peppers;  adding  mustard  seed  and 
celery  seed.  Cook  vinegar  and  sugar  with  stick  cinnamon  and 
cloves  (tied  in  muslin  bag),  10  minutes,  and  turn  while  hot  over 
the  pickles.  In  a  few  days  drain  off  the  liquid  and  boil  30  min- 
utes. Repeat  2  or  3  times  at  intervals  of  a  few  days,  boiling 
liquid  about   10  minutes  each  time. 


!i2  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

TOMATO  RELISH. 

I  )ne  peek  tomatoes  not  too  ripe,  seeded.  Three  green  peppers 
seeded,  and  lour  onions,  chop  fine  and  add  ^  cup  salt.  Drain 
over  night  in  muslin  bag.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes  two  quarts 
vinegar  with  two  pounds  sugar,  let  cool.  Put  drained  vegetables 
in  two  gallon  jar;  add  one  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  and  two 
bunches  of  celery  chopped  fine,  use  very  sharp  chopper.  Pour 
over  the  mixture  the  cold  sweetened  vinegar,  cover.  It  will  be 
ready  to  use  in  a  few  days. 

DILL  PICKLES. 

Medium  sized  cucumbers 

1  pint  salt,  2  to  2V2  gal-  water 

Dill  and  grape  leaves 
Wash  cucumbers,  place  a  layer  of  grape  leaves  in  bottom  of 
jar  or  keg,  put  in  layer  of  cucumbers  with  head  or  two  of  dill, 
more  grape  leaves,  cucumbers  and  dill,  until  container  is  full. 
Heat  water  to  boiling  point,  stir  in  salt  and  let  cool;  pour  oyer 
cucumbers  until  covered.  Weight  these  down  with  a  china  plate 
turned  upside  down  with  weight  on  it.  In  about  a  week,  drain  off 
brine,  heat  to  boiling  point,  cool,  and  turn  back  on  pickles. 

WATERMELON  PICKLES. 

Peel  firm  watermelon  rinds,  and  remove  the  pink  pulp  from 
the  inside;  cut  in  suitable  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt,  using  a  cup  to 
two  gallons  of  prepared  rind,  put  in  stone  jar  or  crock,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  set  over  night.  Drain  off  the  brine  and  cook 
in  fiesh  water  until  tender,  drain  well;  then  add  a  syrup  made 
in  the  following  proportions:  6  to  8  cups  sugar  to  3  to  -i  cups 
vinegar,  with  3  sticks  cinnamon  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  cloves 
tied  in  a  muslin  sack.  After  this  syrup  has  cooked  10  minutes, 
combine  with  rinds  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes;  put  into  jars. 
In  a  day  or  two  turn  off  syrup,  reheat  and  pour  over  pickles  while 
hot.    Cover  and  set  awav. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  93 

CHILI   SAUCE. 

_!4   large  ripe  tomatoes  '1  tablespoons  sail 

8   large  onions  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

6  cups  vinegar  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

4  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon   pepper 

2  cups  celery  cut  fine  '  -  teaspoon  paprika 
2  medium  sized  red  peppers  1    teaspoon  ground  cloves 

Chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  red  peppers;  put  into  kettle  with 
celery  cut  fine.  Add  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices.  Cook  slowly 
2  or  3  hours. 

CHOW  CHOW. 


1  peck  green  tomatoes  4  onions  1  bunch  celery 
!  lb.  cabbage  6  medium  sized  cucumbers 
5  g]  i  en  peppers  |  -  cup  salt 

1  hop  vegetables,  after  seeding  the  peppers  and  tomatoes  and 
peeling  the  cucumbers,  mix  in  the  salt,  set  aside  for  a  few  hours, 
pul  in  sack  and  drain  over  night.  Put  into  jars.  Put  3  pints  of 
cider  vinegar  into  kettle  and  boil  a  few  minutes  with  2  or  3  cups 
brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  pepper,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed  and 

2  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  turn  onto  vegetables  boiling  hot. 
Turn  off  and  reheat  the  vinegar  2  or  3  times  at  intervals  of  a  few 
days. 

OIL  PICKLES. 

til  100  small  cucumbers  in  slices  with  peelings  on.  Sprinkle 
with  sail  and  let  stand  three  hours;  then  slice  three  pints  of  small 
white  onions  in  water,  add  a  Lump  of  alum  size  of  a  nutmeg,  dis- 
solve the  alum  in  hot  water;  Drain  and  add  3  ounces  of  ground 
pep]  v  and  3  ounces  of  celery  seed.  3  ounces  of  mustard,  one  pint 
of  <■  oil,  and  cover  with  cold   vinegar. 


94  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

SALT  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Carefully  pick  cucumbers  3  to  4  inches  in  length,  cutting  the 
stem  instead  of  breaking  off  the  cucumbers,  do  not  bruise,  wash 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  a  day.  Make  a  brine  that  will  bear  an 
egg  or  potato,  boil  and  skim,  when  co.ol  pour  over  cucumbers 
that  have  been  closely  packed  in  a  jar  or  keg.  Keep  pickles 
weighted  down  and  covered  with  brine. 

To  freshen,  soak  in  fresh  water  for  a  day  or  two.  changing 
i  lie  water  two  or  three  times,  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  alum  added 
to  the  water  while  freshening  will  make  the  pickles  firm 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Prepare  the  cucumbers  as  for  salt  cucumber  pickle-,  only 
using  a  smaller  size.  Place  in  the  jar  or  keg  a  layer  of  wild  grape 
leaves,  fresh  picked,  about  an  inch  deep,  then  a  layer  of  encum- 
bers, alternating  until  jar  is  filled;  cover  with  a  layer  of  grape 
leaves,  then  cover  all  with  brine,  made  with  one  cup  salt,  %  cup 
vinegar  to  3  or  4  quarts  of  water.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and  in 
;J  or  4  weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use.  These  pickles  do  not 
keep  very  Ioul;-. 

SAUERKRAUT. 

Everybody  likes  sauerkraut.  There  should  he  a  jar  or  keg 
of  a  few  gallons  or  more  in  every  cellar;  it  is  both  healthy  and. 
nourishing.  If  5  to  10  gallons  are  to  be  made,  select  a  large  jar. 
but  if  a  keg  or  barrel  is  to  be  used,  select  one  that  has  had  cider 
(>]•  vinegar  in  it  and  scald  it  out  well. 

Remove  outer  leaves  from  cabbage  and  cut  each  head  in  two 
in  center,  remove  the  heart  and  shred  with  kraut  cutter.  If  kraut 
is  made  without  a  cutter  use  a  large  sharp  knife,  cut  into  the 
cabbage  as  far  as  the  center  and  shred  in  that  way.  cutting  as 
fine  as  possible. 

Drop  the  shredded  cabbage  into  the  jar  or  keg  as  fast  as  it 
is  cut.  and  when  there  are  three  or  four  inches  sprinkle  in  a  hand- 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  95 

ful  of  salt,  and  tamp  it  well,  for  this  purpose  use  a  stick  three  or 
four  inches  in  diameter,  with  a  square  end.  Put  in  more  cabbage, 
;i  handful  or  two  of  salt  and  tamp  again,  when  it  is  tamped  enough 
the  brine  will  begin  to  show. 

Repeat  until  job  is  complete.  A  little  sugar  added  improves 
the  flavor.  A  pint  to  a  pint  and  a  half  of  salt  is  about  the  rule; 
too  much  salt  will  delay  the  kraut  in  curing,  but  it  will  keep 
longer,  if  there  is  not  enough  salt  it  will  cure  quickly  but  will  not 
keep  as  long. 

Always  keep  the  kraul  weighted  down,  so  thai  the  brine  will 
cover  it  at  all  times.  There  will  be  plenty  of  brine  if  the  shredded 
cabbage  is  properly  tamped.  Kraut  will  be  ready  for  use  in  about 
three  weeks,  unless  too  much  salt  is  used  or  it  is  kept  in  too  cold 
a  place.  If  made  in  cold  weather  it  is  best  to  se1  the  kraut  in  a 
moderately  warm  place  for  the  first  three  weeks:  then  place  in  a 
cool  place. 


96  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Canning  Fruits  and  Vegetables 


In  canning  i'ruil  and  vegetables,  proper  sterilization  must  be 
the  rule,  in  both  the  material  to  be  canned,  and  the  jars  or  con- 
tainers. By  sterilization  is  meant  to  heat  to  212°  or  the  boiling 
poinl  for  water,  and  kept  at  that  heat  for  a  certain  time,  to  kill 
any  bacteria  or  mold  that  may  infest  the  articles  to  be  canned. 
Fruits  generally  are  sterilized  much  quicker  than  vegetables,  some 
of  which  need  boiling  at  a  much  higher  temperature  and  for  a 
longer  time.  \n  canning  do  not  use  tin  or  chipped  enamel  uten- 
sils in  cooking  the  fruit  or  vegetables.  In  preparing  and  handling, 
use  silver  spoons,  forks  and  knives. 

Sweet  corn  is  considered  the  most  difficult  of  all  vegetables 
to  can,  and  tomatoes  the  least  difficult.  Canning  sweet  corn  is 
nade  quite  simple  in  the  following: 

EXTRACTS  FROM  BULLETIN  NO.  521, 
UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE. 

Canning  Recipes. 


TOMATOES. 

Grade  for  ripeness,  size,  and  quality.  Scald  to  loosen  skins. 
Dip  in  cold  water,  remove  skins,  pack  whole.  Fill  with  tomatoes 
only  and  add  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  to  each  quart.  Place 
rubber  and  partially  seal.  Sterilize  22  minutes  in  hot  water  hath, 
18  minutes  in  water-seal  outfit,  15  minutes  under  5  -pounds  of 
steam  or  10  minutes  in  pressure  cooker.  Remove  jars,  tighten 
covers,  test    joints  and  invert  to  cool. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  9, 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Cjiji  fresh,  sound  berries  same  day  picked.  Hull  (twist 
berries  off  hull),  place  in  strainer,  pour  hot  water  over  to  cleanse. 
Pack  in  jar  without  crushing.  Pour  hot  syrup  over  berries  to 
top.  Place  rubber  and  top,  partially  tighten.  Sterilize  12  minutes 
in  hot  water  bath.  6  minutes  under  5  pounds  of  steam,  8  minutes 
in  water-seal  outfit,  or  5  minutes  in  pressure  cooker. 
(Syrup:     IV2  (lts-  sugar  to  1  qt.  water  boiled  to  medium  thick.) 

SWEET  CORN  (On  the  Cob). 

Blanch  in  boiling  water  10  or  15  minutes,  according  to  ripe- 
ness, size  and  freshness;  plunge  in  cold  water.  Pack,  alternating 
butts  and  tips,  add  just  a  little  boiling  water  and  1  level  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  to  each  quart.  Place  rubber  and  top  and  partially 
tighten.  Process  180  to  240  minutes  in  hot  water  bath,  iy2  hours 
in  water-seal  outfit,  60  minutes  under  5  pounds  of  steam,  or  40 
minutes  in  pressure  cooker.  Remove  jars,  tighten  covers,  invert, 
and  eool.     (Pleat  up  for  table  use  in  steamer,  not  in  hot  water.) 

SWEET  CORN  (Off  the  Cob). 

►Same  as  above,  except  cut  from  ear  after  blanching.  Pack 
and  fill  jars  with  boiling  water,  adding  1  level  teaspoonful  salt 
to  each  pint.    Proceed  as  above. 

PEAS— BEANS. 

Blanch  5  to  10  minutes  in  boiling  water;  plunge  in  cold  water. 
Pack  and  add  boiling  water  and  1  level  teaspoonful  salt. to  each 
pint,  place  rubber  and  top,  then  partially  tighten  top.  Process 
1 V2  hours  in  hot  water  bath,  1  hour  in  water-seal,  1  hour  under 
5  pounds  of  steam,  or  45  minutes  in  pressure  cooker. 


98 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE. 


Time  Table  for  Canning1. 


To  be  followed  in  the  use  of  the  four  different  types  of  port- 
able home  canners.  For  altitude  of  4,000  feet  or  more  above  sea 
level,  add  about  25%  time  to  this  schedule.  This  is  a  supplement 
to  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  521.  By  following  the  general  instruc- 
tions of  bulletin  recipes,  and  this  time  table,  you  will  have  the 
information  necessary  for  canning  all  kinds  of  fruit  and  vege- 
tables. 

Home  made  Steam-  Pressure 

lint  water  Water-seal  pressure  cooker 

bath  outfits  outfits  cooker  5    lbs.              10  lbs. 

at  212o  214o  or  more  or  more 

Products    to   lie   canned.                            Minutes  Minutes  .Minutes  Minutes 

Apples,  whole  or  sliced.  .  20  15  10  6 

Apricots  15  12  12  6 

Asparagus    60  60  45  35 

Peas,  Beans,  Okra 90  60  60  45 

Blackberries    12  10  6  3 

Cherries,  Peaches 15  12  10  5 

Corn  (without  acids) ....  210  180  60  40 

Grapes,  Pears,  Plums....  15  15  10  6 

Huckleberries   10  8  6  3 

Beets,  Turnips,  etc 90  75  60  40 

Pineapple    30  25  10  10 

Raspberries   '. ....  15  12  8  5 

Sauerkraut    50  50  40  25 

Strawberries   12  8  6  5 

Tomatoes   22  18  15  10 

Grape  Juice 15  15  10  5 

Quince  30  25  15  10 

Pumpkin  and  Squash.  ...  60  60  45  35 

Chicken,  Beef 250  240  180  40 

Rhubarb 15  15  10  5 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING       99 
CANNED  TOMATOES. 

Select  firm,  ripe,  large  tomatoes.  Scald  and  peel,  slice 
through  the  center  the  flat  way,  place  one-half  in  the  palm  of 
the  hand  and  press  by  closing  the  hand  gradually  forcing  the 
seeds  out.  which  should  be  put  in  a  bowl,  cut  the  halves  into 
smaller  pieces  and  drop  into  preserving  kettle;  drain  the  juice 
from  the  seeds  through  a  seive  and  add  to  the  fruit  in  the  kettle, 
with  a  teaspoon  salt  to  each  3  or  4  pints  of  fruit;  heat  slowly, 
stirring  from  the  bottom,  skim  and  boil  slowly  5  to  8  minutes,  seal. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES. 

To  wash  strawberries,  or  any  other  berry  that  is  inclined  to 
be  gritty,  place  berries  in  a  basin  and  cover  well  with  water,  use 
hands  to  remove  them  from  the  water  to  another  pan,  and  wash 
again  if  necessary.  After  strawberries  are  washed  and  drained, 
hull  them  if  you  choose;  then  place  them  in  a  granite  pan; 
.sprinkle  over  them  or  dredge  with  one  cup  of  sugar  to  two 
quarts  of  berries.  Let  stand  a  few  hours  or  over  night  in  a  cool 
place. 

Then  fill  fruit  jars  with  the  berries,  pressing  them  down 
somewhat  as  you  put  them  in,  but  do  not  crush  them.  Take  the 
juice  drained  from  berries,  add  two  cups  sugar  to  each  cup  juice, 
set  on  range  and  heat  clowly,  boil  5  minutes.  Set  jars  with  fruit 
on  a  wooden  or  wire  rack  in  a  boiler,  with  covers  on  loosely 
without  rubber  rings,  and  fill  with  water  until  jars  are  half  sun- 
merged. 

Boil  5  to  8  minutes  after  water  begins  to  boil.  Take  jars 
from  boiler,  fill  them  with  hot  syrup,  and  set  back  in  boiler,  and 
boil  5  to  10  minutes  longer,  take  out  and  seal.  There  usually  is 
syrup  enough  to  fill  jars,  sometimes  more.  When  not  enough 
make  a  little  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  This  method  of  canning 
keeps  the  berries  whole,  and  preserves  them  in  their  own  juice. 

Raspberries,  currants,  pitted  sour  cherries,  and  blackberries 
may  be  canned  by  the  same  method.  If  bubbles  should  appear 
in  the  cans  or  jars,  after  fruit  cools,  it  should  not  be  regarded  as 
anything  serious,  as  they  generally  disappear  in  a  day  or  two. 


100  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

CANNED  SOUR  CHERRIES. 

Pit  and  cut  cherries  in  two,  put  in  preserving  kettle,  add 
%  CUP  °f  sugar  to  each  cup  of  cherries,  stir  and  heat  slowly.  Cook 
slowly  about  20  minutes.     Skim  and  seal  in  glass  jars. 

CANNED   PLUMS. 

Wash  one  peck  of  plums.  Put  them  into  preserving  kettle, 
cover  with  cold  water;  add  *4  teaspoon  soda,  heat  -slowly  to 
boiling  point.  As  soon  as  plums  begin  to  burst  remove  from 
stove  and  drain,  when  cool  pit  them  or  they  may  be  canned 
whole.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  water  to  three  cups  sugar;  drop 
plums  into  this  and  heat  slowly  and  skim. 

Add  more  sugar,  as  the  fruit  heats  the  amount  of  syrup 
increases  but  gets  thinner.  To  can  plums  use  about  3  cups  of 
sugar  to  4  cups  of  fruit.     Simmer  !/2  to  %  hour. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

Make  a  syrup  of  6  cups  sugar  and  3  cups  water;  peel,  pit  and 
halve  2%  to  3  dozen  peaches,  rinse  them  in  cold  water-,  drain 
and  drop  in  the  hot  syrup,  which  should  be  skimmed  when 
necessary.  To  bring  out  the  flavor  of  peaches  they  should  cook 
slowly.     Simmer  V2  to  1  hour. 

Remove  from  the  hot  syrup  with  a  fork,  a  piece  at  a  time, 
and  put  into  hot  sterilized  jars,  fill  about  %  full,  strain  and  fill 
each  jar  with  the  hot  syrup,  seal.  If  there  should  not  be  enough 
syrup  to  fill  the  last  jar,  a  little  can  be  quickly  made  with  hot 
water  vand  sugar. 

CANNED    PEARS. 

Add  6  cups  sugar  to  3  cups  water  in  the  preserving  kettle, 
boil  5  minutes.  Peel,  halve,  core  and  rinse  as  quickly  as  con- 
venient as  many  pears  as  will  cook  in  the  syrup,  cook  slowly  until 
tender,  till  into  hot  jars  as  quickly  as  possible,  using  fork.  When 
filled  to  the  amount  required,  strain  in  and  fill  with  boiling  hot 
s\ nip,  seal. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  101 

CANNED  APRICOTS. 

Use  the  same  method  in  canning  apricots  as  for  peaches, 
using  a  little  more  sugar  and  a  little  less  water  for  the  syrup. 
They  may  be  peeled  or  canned  with  skins  on,  and  may  be  pitted 
and  halved,  or  left  whole. 

CANNED  CRAB  APPLES. 

In  the  preserving  kettle  make  a  syrup  of  6  cups  sugar  to  3 
cups  water.  After  boiling  5  minutes  drop  in  as  much  of  the 
prepared  fruit  as  will  cook  in  the  syrup,  cook  very  slowly  so  as 
to  keep  the  fruit  as  whole  as  possible.  When  cooked  through, 
remove  by  stem  and  place  in  heated  jars,  fill  jars  with  hot  syrup 
Miid  seal.  In  preparing  crab  apples  to  can  remove  the  remains 
of  blossoms,  leave  stems  on,  and  wash. 

A  few  cloves  dropped  in  the  syrup  while  the  crab  apples 
are  cooking,  improves  the  flavor ;  they  should  be  taken  out 
before  the  fruit  is  put  in  the  jars. 


102  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Conserves 


PINEAPPLE  CONSERVE. 

One  pint  oi'  pineapple,  canned  or  fresh,  shredded  or  cut  into 
small  pieces;  one  cup  of  bleached  Sultana  raisins,  Larger  ones 
cut  in  two;  one-half  to  three-fourths  cup  of  chopped  black  wal- 
nut, butternut,  or  pecan  meats ;  one-fourth  cup  of  orange  con- 
serve, two  cups  sugar,  or  one  and  one-half  cups,  if  canned  pine- 
apple is  used;  put  all  in  sauce  pan,  add  a  little  water,  stir,  heat 
slowly  to  boiling  point,  boil  slowly  for  one  hour  or  until  syrup  is 
thick. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE. 

Two  cnps  stewed  rhubarb,  sweetened  with  two  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  Sultana  raisins,  one-half  cup  chopped  black  walnut 
meats,  one-fourth  cup  orange  conserve,  or  cherry  juice.  Boil 
slowly  one  hour  or  until  thick. 

CHERRY    CONSERVE. 

2  cups  pitted  sour  cherries 

21/2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  Sultana  raisins  chopped 

Y2  cup  black  walnut  meats  chopped 

1  orange  (pulp  and  juice) 

GRAPE  CONSERVE. 

To  two  cups  of  seeded  Concord  grapes  add  a  little  cold 
water  and  boil  until  skins  are  tender.  Add  two  and  one-fourth 
cups  sugar,  one  cup  Sultana  raisins,  one-half  cup  black  walnut 
meats,  one-fourth  cup  orange  conserve.  Boil  slowly  one  hour  or 
until  thick. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  103 

TOMATO    CONSERVE. 

Two  cups  tomatoes  that  have  been  peeled,  seeded  and  cut 
in  small  pieces;  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point,  add  two  cups  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  cup  Sultana  raisins,  one-third 
cup  orange  conserve  or  lemon  juice,  one-half  cup  black  walnut 
meats.    Boil  slowly  one  hour  or  until  thick. 

ORANGE  CONSERVE. 

8  oranges 
•  !   lemons 
2  grapefruit 

Select  clear  rind  fruit,  slice  off  ends  and  peel  carefully,  cut 
orange  and  lemon  peel  in  pieces  %  inch  wide  and  %  inch  long, 
put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water,  cook  20  minutes,  drain,  and  repeat 
the  cooking. 

Prepare  the  grapefruit  rinds  in  a  similar  way,  cooking  u. 
three  waters;  drain  and  combine  the  two  lots,  measure,  and  for 
each  cup  of  rind  take  a  cup  of  sugar,  make  a  very  thick  syrup. 
skim  and  turn  in  the  cooked  rind;  now  cut  up  the  peeled  fruit 
removing  seeds  and  white  tissue  as  far  as  possible,  measure  and 
with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  add  it  to  the  above  and  cook 
until  thickened.  Put  in  glasses  or  fruit  jars  and  cover  with 
sealing  wax. 

Black  walnut  meats  may  be  added  just  before  the  cooking 
is   finished,  if  desired. 

ORANGE   MARMALADE. 

Slice  thin  6  oranges.  3  lemons  and  grapefruit.  Add  pint  of 
water  to  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  let  set  over  night.  Cook  about 
20  minutes,  then  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  and  cook  until 
it  jells  or  thickens.     Put  in  glasses  and  seal. 


104  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

QUINCE  APPLE  PRESERVES. 

For  quince  and  apple  preserves,  use  about  one  dozen  quince 
to  one  peck  of  apples;  peel,  core  and  cut  quinces  in  eighths,  put 
in  preserving  kettle,  cover  with  water  as  quickly  as  possible, 
then  set  on  to  cook.  When  a  fork  will  easily  pierce  them,  set 
back  on  range  to  simmer.  Add  sugar  enough  to  make  a  rich 
syrup,  cook  slowly  an  hour  or  two  after  sugar  is  added.  Peel, 
core  and  quarter  Tallman  sweet  apples. 

Remove  quince  from  syrup,  put  apples  in  and  cook  until 
tender,  return  quince  to  kettle,  mix  carefully  and  let  simmer 
until  of  a  rich,  deep,  red  color,  put  in  fruit  jars  and  seal  while 
hot. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  105 


Directions  for  Jelly  Maying 


CURRANT  JELLY. 

Select  currants  that  are  half  ripened  and  freshly  picked  dur- 
ing sunshine  and  warm  weather  if  possible.  Pick  from  stems, 
wash  and  put  into  preserving  kettle.  Add  a  little  water  to  keep 
fruit  from  scorching,  say  half  a  cup  to  each  quart  of  fruit.  Heat 
slowly  until  heated  thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil.  Mash  well,  use 
a  wooden  masher  and  turn  into  a  jell  bag  to  drain;  let  drain 
without  pressing  until  it  stops  dripping. 

Measure  juice  and  strain  through  a  linen  cloth  and  put  in 
sauce  pan  to  boil;  heat  slowly.  If  gas  is  used  better  have  an  as- 
bestos mat  under  sauce  pan. 

"While  juice  is  heating,  place  %  amount  of  cane  granulated 
sugar  in  a  pan.  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat,  let  it  heat  slowly, 
almost  to  the  point  of  scorching,  and  have  it  ready  at  the  moment 
it  is  needed.  Boil  juice  about  20  minutes,  rather  a  little  less 
than  more.  Skim  when  necessary.  Add  the  hot  sugar,  stirring 
gently  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  skim  carefully.  Begin  testing 
by  taking  a  teaspoon  of  the  juice  and  putting  it  into  a  saucer  to 
cool ;  if  cooked  enough  it  will  start  to  congeal  almost  at  once 
and  while  it  is  still  warm,  if  it  does  not  set,  test  again  allowing 
a  minute  or  two  between  tests,  boiling  very  slowly  all  the  time. 
When  ready  for  the  glasses  it  can  be  strained  again,  a  very  diffi- 
cult task  in  most  cases,  but  it  gives  a  perfectly  clear  jelly. 
When  turning  the  hot  jelly  into  the  glasses,  they  need  not  be 
hot  to  prevent  breaking,  if  a  teaspoon  is  placed  in  the  glass 
while  jelly  is  poured  in. 


106      BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

CURRANT  RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

For  currant  raspberry  jelly,  use  one-third  currant  and  two- 
thirds  raspberry  juice  with  three-fourths  amount  of  sugar  and 
proceed  as  with  currant  jelly. 

CURRANT  STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 


Use  one-fourth  currant  and  three-fourths  strawberry  juice, 
with  three-fourths  amount  of  sugar,  and  proceed  as  with  currant 
jelly. 


GOOSEBERRY  JELLY. 


Prepare  unripened  gooseberries;  put  them  into  sauce  pan, 
add  water  until  it  can  be  seen  rising  in  the  pan  under  the  fruit. 
Set  on  the  range  to  heat  slowly,  do  not  boil,  when  fruit  begins 
to  break  open  remove  from  range,  mash  and  put  in  jell  bag  to 
drain.  Strain  juice  through  muslin  and  measure,  put  in  sauce 
pan  and  boil  steadily.  Skim  carefully,  heat  au  equal  amount  of 
sugar  and  proceed  as  with  other  jelly. 


MINT  JELLY. 


Proceed  as  with  crabapple  jelly,  selecting  fruit  that  is* 
green  or  light  colored  skin.  Boil  juice  with  three-fourths  amount 
(or  a  little  more)  of  cane  granulated  sugar.  Just  before  cooking 
is  finished  drop  in  a  sprig  or  5  or  6  leaves  of  mint  for  mint  flavor, 
and  4  to  8  drops  of  vegetable  green  to  each  pint  of  jelly.  The 
coloring  is  for  looks  only  and  can  be  omitted. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  107 

CRABAPPLE  JELLY. 

Pull  grown,  unripened,  transcendent  crabs  are  best  for  jelly, 
quarter,  core  and  cut  out  dark  spots.  Set  on  to  boil  in  water 
that  does  not  quite  cover  the  fruit,  boil  slowly  until  fruit  is 
quite  soft,  which  usually  takes  20  minutes  to  half  hour,  turn  in 
jell  bag  and  drain.  Proceed  as  with  other  jelly,  using  about 
three-fourths  amount  of  sugar. 

PLUM  CRABAPPLE  JELLY. 

Equal  parts  ot  plum  and  erabapple  juice  make  a  very  nice 
jelly.     Make  as  erabapple  jelly;  using  a,n  equal  amount  of  sugar. 

i 
CRANBERRY  MOULDS. 

Put  cranberries  on  to  cook  in  cold  water  to  barely  cover 
them;  eook  until  soft:  strain  through  fine  colander,  and  add  an 
equal  amount  of  sugar,  and  cook  as  a  marmalade  or  jelly.  Turn 
into  jelly  moulds  and  let  cool. 


108  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Baling  Powder  and  Extracts 


BAKING  POWDER  NO.  1. 

Mix  and  sift  several  times,  6  ounces  bicarbonate  of  soda.  4 
ounces  tartaric  acid  and  6  ounces  corn  starch;  use  the  usual 
amount  in  baking. 

BAKING  POWDER  NO.  2. 

One  teaspoon  soda  and  two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar, 
mixed   and   sifted   well    with    eaieh    two   cups   flour,    gives    good 

results. 

VANILLA  EX.  NO.  1. 

Cut  fine  one  ounce  of  fresh  vanilla  beans,  dredge  thoroughly 
with  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar,  put  in  a  pint  fruit  jar,  and 
add  V2  cup  water  and  ] />  pint  deodorized  strong  alcohol;  cover 
and  set  in  warm   place  for  2  weeks,  stir  or  shake  occasionally. 

VANILLA  EXTRACT  NO.  2. 

Cut  line  4  fresh  vanilla  beans,  put  into  jar  or  bottle  and 
add  one-half  pint  deodorized  alcohol ;  set  ten  days  and  it  will 
be  ready  for  use. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  109 

VANILLA  EXTRACT  NO.  3. 

This  extract  is  generally  used  at  soda  fountains,  and  can 
be  used  for  all  purposes. 

Cut  fine  one  oz.  vanilla  beans  and  one  oz.  Tonka  beans, 
dredge  in  four  oz.  sugar,  put  into  a  quart  jar  or  bottle  and 
turn  on  ten  oz.  deodorized  alcohol,  let  stand  a  few  days,  then 
add  one  dram  Vanillin  and  six  oz.  water. 

LEMON  EXTRACT  NO.  1. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  the  rinds  of  two  lemons,  put  in  a  pint 
fruit  jar  with  half  cup  deodorized  strong  alcohol,  cover  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  for  one  week.  '  Into  another  pint  jar,  put 
the  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  half  cup  deodorized  strong  alcohol 
and  two  drams  of  fresh  oil  of  lemon;  to  this  mixture,  strain 
in  the  preparation  from  the  other  jar,  stir,  and  extract  is  ready 
for  use. 

LEMON  EXTRACT  NO.  2. 

Put  into  a  pint  fruit  jar  one-half  pint  deodorized  alcohol, 
one  ounce  uil  of  lemon,  four  tablespoons  water,  stir,  and  add 
enough  alcohol  to  fill  jar;  use  the  usual  amount  of  this  extract. 

BLANCHED  ALMONDS. 

Pour  boiling  hot  water  over  shelle  almonds,  let  stand  a 
minute  or  two  and  the  skins  can  be  peeled  off;  drop  into  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes;  drain  and  dry. 

For  salted  almonds  dredge  blanched  almonds  in  melted 
butter,  put  in  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  brown  slightly  in  oven. 


110  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Griddle  Calces  and  Fritters 


GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking- 
powder  and  one  teaspoon  salt,  stir  in  milk  or  milk  and  water 
to  make  a  thin  batter,  stir  in  one  or  two  beaten  eggs;  melt  a 
rounding  tablespoon  of  shortening  and  add  it  frying  hot  to  the 
batter  just  before  baking. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES,  SOUR  MILK. 

To  each  cup  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  add  one  scant   tea 
spoon  soda  (level  measurement)  dissolved  in  water;  stir  in  flour 
to  make  a  thin  batter,  add  salt  and  one  or  two  beaten  eggs.     A 
little  corn  meal  mixed  in  flour  makes  the  cakes   much  better. 

Stir  in  a  little  hot  shortening  just  before  baking. 

Do  not  turn  cakes  more  than  once  while  baking. 

BUCKWHEAT   CAKES. 

Soak  onedialf  cake  of  dry  yeast  in  half  cup  hike  warm 
water,  with  teaspoon  sugar.  Stir  into  one  pint  of  fresh  milk, 
(or  milk  and  water),  buckwheat  flour  with  part  white  flour  to 
make  a  medium  batter.  When  yeast  cake  is  well  soaked,  add 
to  batter,  stir  well,  set  away  to  rise  until  morning.  Stir  in  pinch 
of  soda,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  if  thinning  is  necessary  use  milh;. 
bake  on  hot  griddle,  do  not  turn  cakes  until  under  side  is 
sufficiently  baked. 

If  any  batter  is  left  over  set  it  aside  until  evening,  stir  in 
flour  and  milk  as  the  night  before,  but  no  yeast  is  needed,  set 
over  night  and  in  the  morning  add  pinch  of  soda,  teaspoon  salt 
and  bake. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING      HI 


Croquettes  and  Waffles 


CORN  FRITTERS. 

1   cup  flour  J   cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking-  powder  1   tablespoon  shortening 

Y2  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

!/2  can  corn. 
Make  a  batter  after  mixing  and  sifting  the  dry  ingredients. 
Drain  the  corn,  turn  liquid  into  cup,  if  there  is  not  a  half 
cup  of  it.  turn  in  milk  to  make  half  full,  stir  it  into  Hour,  then 
the  corn,  shortening  and  the  eggs.  Have  fat  frying  hot;  cut 
dough  with  tablespoon  and  drop  into  fat;  care  should  be  taken 
that  fritters  are  cooked  through;  take  from  fat  with  wire  spoon, 
drain  and  serve  hot. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Drain  the  oysters  and  parboil  one  minute,  and  let  drain ; 
make  the  hatter  as  for  corn  fritters  using  half  milk  and  half 
liquid  drained  from  the  oysters;  stir  oysters  into  batter  and  fry 
in  hot  fat. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Slice  apples  quite  thin,  stir  into  fritter  batter  and  fry  in 
hot  fat,  drain  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  serve  hot. 


112  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

1  cup  flour  3  bananas 

1  teaspoon  baking-  powder  1/3  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
*4  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift:  mash  or  rice  the  bananas 
and  alternating  with  the  milk,  mix  with  the  flour;  stir  in  lemon 
juice,  and  the  lightly  beaten  eggs.  Use  tablespoon  and  drop 
into  hot  fat:  drain  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar;  serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Yx  lb.  cold  chicken  x/'-i  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  pepper 

2  teaspoons  Hour  2  eggs 

VL'  cap  milk  bread  crumbs 

Mix  butter  and  flour  and  sot  on  the  range,  when  cooked 
stir  in  milk,  then  the  finely  minced  chicken  and  seasonings,  let 
cool  and  stir  in  one  well  beaten  egg. 

A  little  finely  chopped  celery  or  onion  juice  may  be  added 
if  liked. 

Shape  in  forms  about  the  size  of  a  thumb;  dip  into  egg, 
well  beaten  with  a  little  milk  added  to  it,  and  then  roll  in  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs. 

Fry  in  hot  fat  like  doughnuts,  using  a  wire  spoon  instead 
of   fork,  drain  and  serve  hot. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Veal  Or  any  kind  of  cold  meat  may  be  made  into  croquettes. 
They  are  prepared  like  chicken  croquettes. 


BKEAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  113 

WAFFLES. 

2  cups  flour  lvj   cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking-  powder  3  eggs 

V2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  shortening. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  stir  in  the  milk  with  the  beat- 
en yolks,  then  the  melted  shortening,  and  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs. 

Waffle  irons  should  be  hot  and  well  greaased. 

The  batter  for  waffles  should  be  a  little  thinner  than  usual- 
ly for  griddle  cakes,  and  should  be  well  beaten  when  milk  is 
added. 

Serve  hot  with  syrup. 


1.14      BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


CULINARY  TERMS 
Not  Always  Understood. 
Bouilon — A  clear  soup;  usually,  made  from  beef;  a  beef  tea. 

Braise — To  dredge  meat  with  flour,  and  brown,  preparitory 
for  the  final  roasting  or  stewing.  To  stew  meat  with  vegetables, 
and  then  hake.  Meat  covered  with  a  mixture  and  baked  or 
roasted. 

Canning — Fruits,  vegetables  and  meats  sterilized  by  cooking, 
and  sealed  while  hot  in  tin  cans  or  glass  jars. 

Conserves — A  combination  of  fruits  cooked  with  an  equal 
amount  of  sugar,  to  the  consistency  of  jelly,  sometimes  nut 
meats  are  added. 

Consumme — A  clear  rich  bouillon,  or  meat  broth  boiled 
down. 

Croquettes — Minced  meat  etc.  shaped  into  balls,  coated  with 
eggs  and  bread  crumbs  and  fried  in  deep  fat. 

.  .  .Croutons — Pieces  of  bread   cut    in   desired  shapes  and   fried 
in  hot  butter  or  other  fat. 

Fondant — The  body  or  foundation  of  most  cream  candies ; 
sugar  and  water  boiled  by  prescribed  rules. 

Forcemeat — Finely  chopped  meat,  or  different  kinds  of  meat ; 
usually   used  for  stuffing. 

Fricassee — Chicken,  small  fowl,  rabbit  or  veal,  cut  suitable 
for  serving,  and  stewed  :  it  is  served  with  gravy. 

Marmalade — A  combination  of  fruits;  usually  the  pulp  and 
rinds,  cooked  with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  until  it  jellies. 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  115 

Meringue — The  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  troth,  sweetened 
and  flavored,  used  for  frosting  pies,  puddings,  etc. 

Preserves — Efcuit  cooked  with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar. 

Pot   Pourri — A  stew  of  different   kinds   of  meat:    sometimes 
includes  vegetables. 

Puree — A  soup,  thickened  with  the  strained  pulp  of  cooked 

vegetables ;  usually  beans  or  peas. 

Ragout — A  highly  seasoned  stew  of  meat,  similar  to  a  pot 
pourri. 

Saute — Fish  or  meat  fried  in  very  little  fat. 

Souffle — A  light,  Huffy  omelet,  made  of  the  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  light,  seasoned  and  usually  sweetened;  baked  or  fried. 

Tartare — An    uncooked    sauce,    very    sharp,    used    on    meats. 

Tutti    Frutti — A    combination    of    different    kinds    of   fruit; 
chopped  as  for  salad. 


116  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


THE    FIRST   THANKSGIVING 

Thanksgiving  day,  Christmas  and  New  Year's  day  are  holi- 
days for  Divine  worship,  thanksgiving  and  festivities,  the  former 
is  an  American  holiday  of  New  England  origin,  and  dates  from 
the  year  following  the  landing  of  the  Pilgrims  at  Plymouth 
Rock  in  1620.  Some  writers  disagree  as  to  this  heing  the  first 
Thanksgiving  day,  holding  that  as  there  is  no  record  to  show 
that  any  religious  services  were  held,  and  as  the  festivities  ex- 
tended over  a  period  of  from  three  to  six  days  in  the  open,  it 
can  only  be  regarded  as  a  public  festival.  However,  after  a 
prosperous  summer,  and  the  gathering  of  a  good  harvest  on 
which  so  much  depended,  the  colony,  that  now  had  been  reduced 
by  death,  to  less  than  three  score,  decided  to  hold  a  period  of 
thanksgiving  and  festivities,  to  which  all  were  bidden,  includ- 
ing an  Indian  chief  and  ninty  of  his  tribe;  all  told  146  persons. 
To  help  provide  for  the  feast  Governor  Braddock  sent  out  four 
hunters  into  the  forest  to  bring  in  wild  fowl  of  which  they  ob- 
tained an  abundance. 

History  does  not  tell  us  upon  what  day  this  feast  began, 
or  in  what  month  it  was  held,  but  it  probably  took  place  in  the 
last  days  of  October  or  in  November,  before  the  weather  be- 
came too  chilly  for  outdoor  feasting. 

"We  are  told  that  roast  wild  turkey  and  other  wild  fowl  and 
venison  was  served  in  great  plenty,  also  pilmpkin  pie,  copy? 
bread,  vegetables  and  Indian  pudding;  apples  were  unknown 
to  the  Pilgrims,  and  cranberry  sauce, — there  is  nothing  said 
about  it,  though  the  colony  located  near,  where  is  now  the  fam- 
ous Cape  Cod  cranberry  marshes. 

The  next  thanksgiving  record  says,  was  held  on  Feb.  22,  1623, 
this  without  festivities,  followed  the  arrival  of  other  Pilgrim^ 
among  them  friends  and  relatives  of  the  colonists,  this  ship  also 
brought  supplies  which  were  sorely  needed- 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  117 

The  summer  of  1622  was  not  prosperous  and  the  winter  fol- 
lowed with  disaster,  distress,  sickness  and  famine,  and  in  the 
spring  of  1623  after  the  crops  had  well  started  a  drought 
threatened  their  entire   destruction. 

Early  in  July  a  whole  day  was  given  to  fasting  and  prayer, 
that  rain  Avould  come  to  save  their  crops.  There  followed  a 
plentiful  rainfall  that  revived  the  fields  and  also  the  spirits  of 
the  colony,  and  in  gratitude  thereof  a  day  of  thanksgiving  was 
ordered  and  observed — July  30,  1623. 

Some  writers  claim  this  was  the  second  Thanksgiving  oif  the 
Pilgrims,  others  the  third,  then  again  it  is  claimed  that  this 
was  the  first  harvest  thanksgiving.  In  colonial  times  there  was 
no  set  day  for  this  holida}',  it  usually  followed  some  important 
event  such  as  the  arrival  of  relatives  and  new  colonists  from 
the  mother  country,  or  a  victory  over  the  Indians  or  a  period 
of  peace  with  them.  A  bountiful  harvest  always  called  for  the 
appointment  of  a  day  of  thanks,  and  this  led  to  the  observance 
of  Thanksgiving  in  the  autumn  ats  the  customary  time. 

In  1863  President  Lincoln  proclaimed  the  last  Thursday  in 
November  as  a  day  of  thanksgiving  in  all  the  land,  and  this 
has  been  followed  annually  by  the  President  since.  The  day  is 
a  national  holiday ;  and  is  a  legal  holiday  in  all  the  states,  with 
the  possible  exception  of  one  or  two. 

Thanksgiving  is  the  great  American  feast  day,  it  is  observed 
in  all  parts  of  the  country,  in  the  island  possessions  and  by 
Americans  in  foreign  countries,  it  is  a  day  of  family  reunions, 
visiting  and  recreation,  much  the  same  as  when  the  day  was 
first  observed,  though  under  far  different  conditions. 

When  the  contented  housewife  of  today  sets  to  preparing 
her  next  Thanksgiving  dinner,  let  her  recall  the  story  of  the 
first  holiday  and  perchance  it  may  be  on  the  anniversary  of 
that  first  Thanksgiving,  prepared  by  a  small  group  of  homesick 
women  in  a  strange  land  in  thait  long  ago. 


118  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKIXH 


PREPARING    THE    THANKSGIVING    DINNER. 

The  preparation  of  the  Thanksgiving-  dinner  should  be  be- 
gun the  day  before,  so  that  all  of  the  work  will  not  fall  to  the 
forenoon  of  the  holiday. 

The  turkey  or  fowl  that  is  to  be  used  can  be  roasted  in  ad- 
vance and  set  back  in  the  oven  the  next  morning',  it  will  heat 
through  in  an  hour  or  two ;  it  should  be  basted  frequently  while 
heating. 

A  more  satisfactory  way  is  to  make  the  fowl  ready  for  the 
roaster,  then  set  it  in  a  cool  place  over  night,  in  the  morning 
make  the  dressing ;  if  it  is  to  be  oyster  dressing,  fry  one  onion 
until  browned,  mix  with  other  ingredients  in  the  usual  way,  mix. 
in  the  raw  oysters  last,  and  stuff  the  fowl ;  nse  a  covered  roaster- 

When  done  remove  fowl  from  pan  and  also  part  of  grease, 
then  make  brown  gravy  with  grease  and  dregs  left  in  pan. 

Plum  pudding  should  be  made  several  days  in  advance,  and 
steamed  an  hour  or  two  before  serving,  it  is  best  with  un- 
cooked lemon  sauce. 

Mince  pie  is  equally  as  good  made  in  advance  and  reheated 
lor  serving.     Pumpkin  pie  is  very  good  served  cold. 

Cranberry  moulds  can  be  made  several  days  before  they  are 
needed,  and  should  not  be  forgotten  as  they  always  go  with  a 
Thanksgiving  dinner,  as  do  mashed  rutabagas.  Mashed  potatoes 
are  by  no  means  the  least  task  in  preparing  a  dinner;  boil 
briskly,  well  covered  with  water,  drain,  set  on  edge  of  stove  for 
a  minute  or  two  uncovered,  salt,  then  mash  well,  add  half  cup 
sweet  milk,  stir  briskly  with  masher  or  heavy  spoon  until  snow 
white;  take  up  in  warmed  vegetable  dish,  dot  top  with  small  bits 
of  butter  and  then  sprinkle  with  a  few  dashes  of  peprika. 

The  menu  on  the  following  page  is  in  greater  variety  than 
needed;    sop    can    be    omitted,    one    vegetable   is   enough,    celery 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  119 

and  olives  are  very  nice,  sweet  pickles  such  as  peach  or  melon, 
should  be  served  rather  than  sour  pickles. 

For  dessert — Plum  pudding  and  sauce  is  sufficient,  possibly 
one  variety  of  pie;  fruit  and  nuts  need  not  be  served  unless  in 
place  of  something  else. 

The  salad  should  be  fresh  made ;  for  a  cabbage  salad,  chop 
the  cabbage  very  fine  or  use  a  food  chopper,  which  some  like 
better;  use  a  good  rich  dressing. 


120  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


MENU 

Thanksgiving  or  Christmas 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Roast  Turkey  Oyster-  Dressing 

Brown  Gravy 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Mashed  Rutabagas  Corn 

Cranberrry  Moulds 

Celery  Olives 

Fruit  Salad 

Minee   Pie  Pumpkin  Pie 

Coffee 
Fruit  Cluster  Raisins  Nuts 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  121 


Christmas  Menu 

Consumine 

Roast  Turkey  Onion  Dressing 

Brown  Gra.vy 

Mashed  Potatoes  Mashed  Rutabagas 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Baked    Sweet  Potatoes,   Southern   Style 

Celery  Olives 

Rolls  Cabbage  Salad 

Plum  Pudding  Lemon  Sauce 

Mince  Pie 

Coffee 


122  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  123 


124  BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING  125 


126 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


INDEX 


Almonds,     Blanched 109 

Apricots,     canned 101 

Baking  Powder  No.   1 108 

Baking  Powder  No.  2 ,. .  . .  108 

Bananas,     baked 77 

Beans,   baked 68 

Beans,     baked 69 

Beans,   canned 97 

Beef    pot    roast 67 

Beets,     boiled 76 

Biscuit,     baking    powder     18 

Bread,     baked     brown 17 

Bread,    Boston    brown 16 

Bread,    compressed    yeast     13 

Bread,     dry     yeast 13 

Bread,    ginger 30 

Bread,     Graham     16 

Bread,      nut 15 

Bread,    rye 17 

Bread,     Steamed     brown 16 

Cake,    birthday 29 

Cake,     coffee 23 

Cake,    coffee    23 

Cake,    dark    fruit 25 

Cake,     fruit 25 

Cake,    ginger 30 

Cake,      gold 26 

Cake,    jelly    roll 30 

Cake,    layer 29 

Cake,   light    fruit    26 

(Cake,     molasses 32 

Cake,    pound 26 

Cake,    silver 26 

Cake,    sour    cream 27 


Cake,     spice 27 

Cake,     sponge 27 

Cake,     sponge 27 

Cake,    wedding    28 

Cake,    white 28 

Cakes,    buckwheat    110 

Cakes,    cheese 30 

Cakes,     griddle 110 

Cakes,    griddle,    sour    milk 110 

Cakes,    sugar 30 

Candy,     butter     scotch 86 

Candy,     divinity 86 

Candy,    chocolate    creams 88 

Candy,    chocolate    creams 87 

Candy,    chocolate    creams 88 

Candy,     fudge 87 

Candy,      maple 88 

Candy,    maple    fudge 88 

Candy,     molasses 89 

Candy,    panoche 87 

Candy,    stuffed    dates 88 

Canning   fruits   &  vegetables....  96 

Carrots,      cream 76 

Catsup    91 

Catsup    91 

Cherries,      canned 100 

Chili    con    carne 78 

Chili     sauce 93 

Chicken,    brown    fricasseed 71 

Chicken     fricasseed 71 

Chow    I  chow 93 

Christmas     menu 121 

Conserve,      cherry 102 

Conserve,    grape 102 

Conserve,     orange 103 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


127 


Conserve,     pineapple 102 

Conserve,     rhubarb 102 

Conserve,     tomato 103 

Corn,     canned 97 

Corn,    creamed 75 

Corn,     scalloped 75 

Cookies,     ginger 31 

Cookies,     ginger 31 

Cookies,    molasses 31 

Cookies,     rocks 32 

Cookies,     sugar 32 

Cream,    whipped 44 

Crabapples,      canned 101 

Cranberry    moulds 107 

Creamettes     and     cheese 74 

Croquettes,     chicken 112 

Croquettes,    veal 112 

Cucumbers,    sliced 81 

Culinary      Terms 114 

Doughnuts      34 

Doughnuts,     sour     milk 33 

Eggs,   curry   sauce 79 

Eggs,     deviled 79 

Filling,    banana    36 

billing,  banana  and   cream 37 

Filling,  banana  &  whipped  cream  35 

Filling,    chocolate    . 36 

Filling,   cream    35 

Filling,    fig     36 

■Filling,    lemon 35 

Filling,     orange     36 

Fish,    baked,     72 

Fish,   scalloped    72 

Fritters,    apple     112 

Fritters,    banana     112 

Fritters,    corn    Ill 

Fritters,    oyster     Ill 

Frosting,     boiled 37 

Frosting,     cream     37 

Gems,    Graham     19 

Gems,    sour   milk    19 

Gravy,    brown     68 

Tee    cream,    vanilla 38 

Tee    cream,    sherbet 38 


Icing,     boiled     37 

Jelly,    currant     105 

Jelly,    currant-raspberry     106 

Jelly,    currant-strawberry    106 

Jelly,    gooseberry    106 

Jelly,     mint     106 

Jelly,     crabapple     107 

Jelly,   plum-crabapple    107 

Johnny-cake      19 

Kaffee    Kuchen     24 

Lemon    Extract   No.    1 109 

Lemon    Extract    No.    2    109 

Macaroni    and    cheese 73 

Marmalade,    orange     103 

Mayonnaise   dressing    80 

Measuring  cup    22 

Meat     Joaf     70 

Meat   loaf,    tomato    sauce 70 

Mince    meat    65 

Muffins      19 

Mustard,     table     82 

Noodles      78 

Noodles  and  cheese    78 

Oysters,    scalloped    75 

Pastry    pointers    20 

Peaches,    canned     100 

Pears,   canned    100 

Peas,    canned     97 

Peas,     creamed     75 

Peppers,    stuffed     77 

Picca-liili       90 

Pickles,    crabapple    90 

Pickles,    cucumber     94 

Pickles,    dill     92 

Pickles,    oil     93 

Pickles,    peach     90 

Pickles,    pear     90 

Pickles,     salt    cucumbers     94 

Pickles,     tomato     91 

Pickles,    watermelon    92 

Pie,    apple     46 

Pie,    cherry     46 

Pie,     chicken     69 

Pie,     chocolate     48 


128 


BREAD  MAKING  AND  BREAD  BAKING 


Pie,    cocoanut    48 

Pie,    cream    48 

Pie     crust     45 

Pie     crust     45 

Pie,    custard    48 

Pie,    lemon     47 

Pie,    lemon     47 

Pie,    mince     47 

Pie,    mock    cherry 46 

Pie,     raisin     46 

Plums,     canned     100 

Potatoes,    baked    sweet 77 

Pudding,    apple   tapioca 42 

Pudding,    Brown    Betty 41 

Pudding,    corn    meal 40 

Pudding    crows    nest 42 

Pudding,    fruit    41 

Pudding,     Indian      40 

Pudding,    plum    39 

Pudding,    rhubard    41 

Pudding,     rice     42 

Pudding,     suet     39 

Pudding,    tapioca    42 

Quince-apple    preserves     104 

Rice,    boiled     66 

Rolls     18 

Rutabaga,    mashed     77 

Salad,    apple    43 

Salad,    cabbage    80 

Salad,    chicken    81 

Salad,    cucumber    81 

Salad    dressing     82 

Salad    dressing,    cream    81 

Salad    dressing,    mayonnaise    ...  80 

Salad,    fruit     43 

Salad,     lettuce     81 

Salad,    potato    80 

Salad,    red    80 

Salad,    salmon     82 

Salad,    tutti    frutti .  43 

Salmon,    canned    74 

Salmon,    butter    gravy    74 

Salmon,    scalloped    74 

Sandwiches,    cheese     84 


Sandwiches,    egg    and    pimento.     85 

Sandwiches,    nut     84 

Sandwiches,     olive     84 

Sandwiches,    peanut    85 

Sandwiches,    raisin    85 

Sandwiches,    veal     84 

Sauce,    curry    82 

Sauce,    lemon    83 

Sauce,    lemon    83 

Sauce,     vinegar 76 

Sauce,    white     83 

Sauer    Kraut     94 

Slaw,    beet    79 

Slaw,     cream     79 

Slaw,    salmon    79 

Soup,    vegetable    68 

Soup,    cream    tomato    68 

Short    cake,    strawberry    38 

Spaghetti,    Spanish     73 

Spaghetti    &    tomatoes     73 

Spaghetti   &   oysters    72 

Stew    and    biscuits    71 

Stew    and   dumplings    71 

Strawberries,    canned     97 

Strawberries,  canned  home  method   99 

Succotash    75 

Thanksgiving    dinner,    preparing  118 

Thanksgiving,    the   first    116 

Thanksgiving    menu     120 

Time    table    for   canning 98 

Tomato    relish     92 

Tomatoes,   canned    96 

Tomatoes,  canned  home  method    99 

Tomatoes,    stewed     76 

Tomatoes,     stuffed     76 

Turkey    dressing    67 

Turkey,     roast     67 

Turnips,    mashed     77 

Vanilla    Extract    No.    1 108 

Vanilla    Extract    No.   2 108 

Vanilla    Extract    No.   3 109 

Veal    loaf     70 

Veal,     pressed     69 

Waffles     113 


