TX  715 
.B849 
Copy   1 


Brockton 
Hospital  Cook  Book 

910 


Class  rX2i5__ 


Copyright  N". 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


910  EDITION 


The  Brockton  Hospital 
COOK  BOOK 


"Better  than  the  Best." 

CONTAINS  OVER  SIX  HUNDRED  VALUABLE  LOCAL  COOKING 
RECIPES  NOT  IN  THE  1906  EDITION. 

PUBLISHED  BY 

The  Brockton  Hospital  Ladies'  Aid  Association 

1910. 


Copyright,  1909,  by  Geo.  Clarence  Holmes. 
All  rights  reserved. 


^ 


I'n  tbr  many  f^rn^s  nf  tlir 
if  I  MnuktsMi  i^ospital  aui»  nf 
^■^  thr  t^os^Ual  ICa^trs'  Aiii 
Arisurtatimt.  uil^n  haitp  an  luuMy 
rrii^tmt^rb  tn  our  a^Tprala  auii 
afisiatri  in  tuuumrrahlr  lnaya 
sinrr  uur  nrijauisatiou.  this  bmiU 
iii  mniit  yratrfulhi  ^r^tratrlI.  until 
tlir  bnpr  that  tbr  fiiturr  mail  br 
ruru  brttrr  than  tbr  past. 


©CU2o27G8 


Ys  EDITOR  SAYS 


I  HE  first  part  of  the  Brockton  Hospital  Cook  Book, 
1906  Edition,  we  believe,  was  the  best  publication  of 
the  kind  ever  issued  in  New  England.  The  success  of 
that  publication  has  led  to  the  issuance  of  this  1910 
Edition,  which  is  substantially  entirely  separate  and 
distinct,  so  far  as  the  recipes  are  concerned,  from  the 
first  part,  and  we  feel  confident  that  those  who  pur- 
chase this  book  will  be  satisfied  that  nothing  better  in  the  cook  book 
line  was  ever  issued  in  Plymouth  County. 

The  members  of  the  Ladies'  Aid  of  the  Brockton  Hospital  have 
put  in  a  great  deal  of  work  in  an  endeavor  to  provide  the  cooks  with  a 
book  that  shall  not  only  be  of  untold  value  to  them,  but  shall  be  of 
financial  value  to  the  Brockton  Hospital.  Every  cent  received  for  the 
first  thousand  books  goes  directly  to  the  treasury  of  the  Ladies'  Aid, 
and  that  means  that  every  cent  goes  to  the  benefit  of  the  Hospital 
itself. 

The  Brockton  Hospital  is  an  institution  established  and  conducted 
for  the  benefit  of  all  the  people  of  Brockton,  regardless  of  age,  race, 
sex  or  color,  and  the  sale  of  this  book  is  meant  to  help  along  this  phil- 
anthropic object. 

There  is  not  one  cent  paid  to  any  person  who  asks  you  to  buy  this 
book  for  the  benefit  of  the  Brockton  Hospital,  and  so  we  ask  you  to 
remember  that  the  one  who  is  trying  to  sell  you  this  book  is  trying  to 
help  along  a  good  cause,  and  that  the  only  pay  she  gets  is  the  con- 
sciousness of  a  good  work  for  a  good  cause  conscientiously  performed. 
We  are  pleased  to  be  able  to  assist  in  the  production  of  so  excel- 
cellent  a  cook  book  for  so  worthy  a  cause,  and  if  anyone  purchasing 
this  book  is  not  fully  satisfied  that  she  gets  more  than  the  worth  of  her 
money,  the  book  can  be  returned,  and  the  entire  amount  paid  for  it 
will  be  refunded  without  question. 

It  is  always  a  pleasure  to  help  along  a  good  cause,  and  the  Brock- 
ton Hospital  is  certainly  that.  What  little  work  the  editor  has  done 
has  been  to  help  along  the  cause,  whether  it  should  or  should  not 
rebound  to  his  personal  benefit. 

Ye  editor,  per  G.  C.  H. 


You  will  find  the  above  label  on 
the  outside  cover  of  every  new  novel 
as  soon  as  it  is  published. 

We  buy  all  the  new  fiction.  All 
the  most  popular  books  we  buy  in 
liberal  quantities,  and  do  not  confine 
ourselves  to  one  or  two  copies. 

We  loan  our  books  at  a  flat  rate  of 
two  cents  a  day,  no  book  to  be  kept 
out  over  twenty  days. 

If  you  want  a  novel  that  does  not 
happen  to  be  on  the  shelf,  you  can 
leave  your  name  for  it,  and  as  soon  as 
it  comes  in,  we  will  charge  it  to  you, 
and  notify  you  by  telephone  or  by 
mail. 

We  pay  a  great  deal  of  attention  to 
our  library  business,  and  mean  to  run 
the  best  and  most  up-to-date  circulat- 
ing library  in  the  State.  We  are  al- 
ways open  to  suggestions  for  the  bene- 
fit of  our  customers. 

If  you  want  to  read  all  the  best  and 
latest  novels,  come  and  see  us  at 

58  Main  St.,  Enterprise  Building. 


T 

I 

S 

I 

s 

u 
o 

L 
M 
E 


58  Main  St.        [[ 
Enterprise  Bdg.   [L 


CONTENTS 


Recipes  from  the  White  House,  Beacon  Hill 

and  the  City  Hall 

9 

Bread           ..... 

11 

Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes 

17 

Eggs            ..... 

26 

Soups     ..... 

31 

Fish  and  Shell  Fish 

36 

Meat      ..... 

45 

Poultry        ..... 

54 

Vegetables        .... 

59 

Salads          ..... 

67 

Sauces  for  Meats,  Fish,  etc.    . 

84 

Entrees       ..... 

89 

Puddings          .... 

95 

Pudding  Sauces      .... 

110 

Cold  Desserts  .... 

114 

Ices,  Ice  Cream,  etc. 

125 

Pies       ..... 

133 

Gingerbread,  Doughnuts,  Cookies,  etc.    . 

140 

Cake 

149 

Confectionery         .... 

169 

Chafing  Dish  Dainties 

181 

Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Jellies 

188 

Sandwiches      .            .            .            . 

204 

Left-Overs              .            .            .            . 

215 

Beverages        .... 

222 

Treatment  for  Emergencies 

226 

Suggestions  for  the  Sick  and  Convalescent 

231 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures   . 

.   .              238 

CASH  vs.  CREDIT 

EARS  ago,  when  Brockton  was  a  small  unpretentious 
town,  when  all  its  merchants  knew  all  of  their  customers 
personally,  the  size  of  their  families,  and  their  financial 
condition,  and  their  moral  characters,  such  a  thing  as  a 
strictly  cash  store  was  practically  unknown.  At  that 
time  individual  sales  were  larger,  the  price  was  higher, 
and  the  customer  was  given  practically  his  own  time  in 
which  to  pay  the  bill.  As  Brockton  has  grown  larger,  its 
population  has  changed  somewhat,  until  it  is  practically 
impossible  for  any  large  dealer  to  be  well  acquainted  with 
all  of  his  customers.  One  result  of  this  has  been  the 
establishment  of  cash  stores,  where  the  individuality  of 
the  customer  counts  but  little,  where  his  credit  is  not  questioned,  as 
the  method  of  doing  business  requii'es  spot  cash. 

The  size  of  these  cash  stores  and  the  amount  of  business  which 
they  do,  shows  conclusively  that  the  people  believe  they  can  get  more 
for  the  same  money  by  paying  cash  than  they  can  by  receiving  credit. 
There  are  reasons  for  all  this,  and  reasons  why  a  man  who  sells  for 
cash  can  sell  cheaper,  or  give  more  for  the  money  than  can  the  man 
who  gives  credit.  Admitting  that  every  customer  pays  his  bill  some- 
time, it  is  plain  to  every  one  that  the  length  of  time  taken  in  which  to 
pay  the  bill  costs  just  so  much  interest  money,  and  that  interest 
money,  generally,  in  a  business  the  size  of  the  This  is  Holmes'  Coal 
Business  would  amount  to  some  thousands  of  dollars  in  a  year.  In 
addition  to  this,  giving  credit  requires  additional  office  help,  and  addi- 
tional expense  in  keeping  the  accounts,  so  that  it  is  only  a  fair  propo- 
sition that  the  man  who  gets  credit  should  pay  twenty-five  cents  a  ton 
more  for  coal  than  the  man  who  pays  spot  cash,  and  this  is  based  on  the 
assumption  (sometimes  incorrect)  that  every  one  who  gets  trusted 
will  pay  his  bill. 

For  a  great  many  years  we  have  adhered  very  closely  to  the  spot 
cash  principle  of  doing  the  coal  business,  and  for  the  purpose  of  expe- 
diting business,  we  have  habitually  given  some  little  souvenir  to  all 
customers  who  pay  cash  at  the  time  they  order  their  coal.  These 
souvenirs,  as  a  general  thing,  cost  us  much  less  than  the  actual  cost 
would  be  of  opening  an  account  with  a  customer.  Many  and  useful 
things  which  we  give,  or  have  been  giving,  are  lead  pencils,  court 
plaster,  pocket  mirrors,  packs  of  needles,  envelope  openers  and  rules, 
book  marks,  and  sometimes  even  coal  hods  and  cook  books. 

On  all  of  these  things  will  be  found  words  of  good  advice  as  to  the 
proper  place  to  purchase  coal.  The  plan  seems  to  meet  with  general 
favor,  as  shown  by  our  steadily  increasing  trade.  Our  platform  is 
expressed  in  the  words,  "A  Square  Deal." 

We  mean  to  deliver  the  best  coal  that  money  will  buy  at  the  low- 
est price  at  which  a  fair  profit  can  be  obtained,  and  any  coal  not  per- 
fectly satisfactory^will  be  promptly  takenout  [and  replaced  by  other 


coal  or  the  money. 


THIS  IS  HOLMES',  58  Main  St. 


The  Brockton  Hospital 

Is  not  a  private  institution,  but  belongs  equally  to  all  the  people,  and 
it  is  managed  and  directed  by  a  band  of  public-spirited  men  and 
women  who  get  absolutely  nothing  out  of  it  but  the  satisfaction  of 
having  done  their  best  to  save  life  and  relieve  suffering.  The  more 
liberal  the  monied  people  are,  the  more  lives  can  be  saved  and  more 
suffering  relieved. 

The  Hospital  Ladies'  Aid  Association  is  the  most  valuable  single 
adjunct  of  the  Hospital,  and  every  cent  that  goes  into  the  Associa- 
tion's treasury,  whether  from  the  sale  of  cook  books  or  other  sources, 
goes  directly  to  the  benefit  of  the  Hospital.  The  sale  of  the  1906 
Cook  Book  netted  the  treasury  over  $450,  and  it  is  hoped  that  this,  the 
1910  edition,  will  be  still  more  successful. 

Too  much  praise  cannot  be  given  Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt  and  her  de- 
voted band  of  fellow  workers  on  this  little  book.  No  one;  who  has 
not  had  experience,  has  any  idea  of  the  vast  quantity  of  work 
demanded  for  the  proper  production  of  a  work  of  this  kind,  and  every 
purchaser  of  this  book  is  helping  along  the  good  cause.  A  public 
institution,  privately  managed,  should  be  absolutely  free  of  all  taint 
of  inefficiency,  graft,  incompetency  and  favoritism,  and  if  anything 
appearing  like  that  should  come  to  your  attention  make  it  your  busi- 
ness to  report  it,  and  in  that  way  do  your  part  to  help  along  the  good 
work  that  is  the  only  aim  and  object  of 

The  Brockton  Hospital 


Looking    Backward 


N  page  four  of  the  1906  Cook  Book  appeared  a  fairly 
flattering  picture  of  the  man  who  was  the  cause  of 
the  existence  of  the  Brockton  Hospital,  as  well  as  of 
the  Hospital  Cook  Book,  and  as  he  never  means  to 
turn  his  back  on  any  friend,  worthy  object  or  person, 
the  above  picture  is  produced  in  order  that  you  may 
see  the  back  of  his  head,  whether  you  see  what  is  in 
or  not.  TT  is  an  unusual  picture,  and  he  does  unusual  and  often 
unpopular  things  in  a  way  that  seems  his  very  own.  He  sells  coal, 
hay,  grain,  poultry  suplies,  post  cards,  stationery,  reading  matter, 
postage  stamps,  etc.,  because  he  has  to  live,  and  these  things  bring  in 
the  wherewithal.  Confidentially,  he  is  an  impractical  sort  of  a  chap, 
by  nature  a  theorist  and  dreamer.  He  wants  money  enough  to  live 
in  comfort,  but  has  not  the  slightest  desire  to  be  what  is  usually 
called  rich.  He  believes  in  an  aristocracy  of  brains,  not  of  money  and 
arrogance.  Funny  sort  of  a  chap,  anyway,  but  he  wants  your  trade 
in  his  several  lines,  and  his  thousands  of  customers  say  that  he  is  a 
good  man  to  tie  to. 

8 


The  Brockton  Hospital  Cook  Book. 

A  White  House  Recipe. 

GINGERBREAD  CAKE. 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  flour;  two  ounces  ground  ginger; 
one-half  pound  brown  sugar;  three-fourths  pound  orange  peel, 
cut  small ;  two  pounds  treacle  or  golden  syrup ;  6  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  ;  one  pound  butter. 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar  and  spices  together.  Then  melt  the 
treacle  and  beat  up  the  eggs  and  mix  all  well  together. 
Cream  the  butter  and  add  to  it  the  other  ingredients ;  stir  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  beat  all  well  together  for 
a  few  minutes,  put  into  pan,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three 
hours.     Half  this  quantity  makes  a  good  sized  cake. 

— Mrs.   William  Howard  Tqft. 

A  Beacon.  Hill  Recipe. 

RECIPE  FOR  COOKING  A  VIRGINIA  OR 
KENTUCKY  HAM. 

Select  carefully  a  small  Virginia  or  Kentucky  ham.  Put 
the  ham  in  cold  water  and  soak  all  night.  In  the  morning, 
put  the  ham  in  a  kettle  filled  with  cold  water.  Place  the 
kettle  on  stove  and  it  will  take  an  hour  to  boil.  Then  let  it 
simmer  five  or  six  hours.  Let  the  ham  cool  in  the  water  it 
boils  in.  Then  skin  the  ham  and  trim  off  some  of  the  fat. 
Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  sugar,  and  stick  in  a 
dozen  or  more  cloves.  .  Brown  in  the  oven. 

— Afrs.  Eben  S.  Draper. 

A  City  Hall  Recipe. 

COURTBOUILLON. 

Take  three  or  four  nice  slices  of  halibut.  Make  a  sauce  by 
putting  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  the  stew  pan,  and  when 
it  is  hot,  stir  in  gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Add 
one    chopped   onion,   six  tomatoes   (chopped),  one  chopped 


bunch  of  parsley,  one  clove  of  garlic,  a  sprig  of  sweet  basil 
and  a  sprig-  of  thyme,  all  chopped  very  fine.  When  it  browns 
nicely  without  burning,  pour  in  about  two  pints  of  water,  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Rub  the  fish  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  boiling  vinegar.  Put  the  fish, 
slice  by  slice,  into  the  pan  and  let  it  simmer  for  about  half  an 
hour,  or  until  the  flesh  begins  to  be  soft.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire,  take  out  of  the  pan,  and  lay  the  slices  in  a  dish.  Pour 
the  gravy  over  the  fish,  and  serve  with  garnishes  of  sliced 
lemon. — Mrs.  John  S.  Kent. 


^  Our  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin  Coal  is  better  for  the 
cook  stove  than  anything 
in  the  Brockton  market, 
except  Franklin.  We  never 
claimed  it  to  be  better  than 
Franklin.  We  never  claimed 
anything  for  our  coals  but 
the  truth,  and  our  lady 
customers  say  w^e  did  not 
put  it  half  strong  enough. 
^  We  have  all  other  kinds 
of  coal,  and  we  sell  them 
clean  and  free  from  stone 
or  slate. 

This  is  Holmes'  Corp. 

58  Main  St.      Enterprise  BIdg.     , 

}  ,  j 


M- 


Bread. 

WHITE  BREAD. 

Grate  one  medium  size  raw  potato.  Pour  boiling  water  over 
it  and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed  when  it  will  become  thick 
and  starchy.  It  will  be  about  one  pint.  Have  one  pint  of  milk 
scalding  hot,  add  to  the  potato ;  to  this  mixture  add  one  large 
spoonful  sugar ;  salt,  and  one-third  cup  shortening.  When  suf- 
ficiently cool  add  two  yeast  cakes.  Sift  in  bread  flour  until  a 
stiff  batter  is  formed.  Cover  and  place  where  it  is  warm.  Let 
stand  until  it  is  soft  and  spongy,  about  three  hours.  Stir  down 
and  add  flour  enough  to  handle  easily.  Let  rise  again,  about 
two  hours.  Then  mould  in  pans.  Let  stand  until  light.  Bake 
slowly.  Two  loaves  and  pan  of  biscuit.  This  is  a  day  bread 
mixed  at  nine  o'clock. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

Right  Coal,  Right  Price,  Right  Treatment,  or  Money  Back  at  Holmes'. 

WHITE  BREAD. 
(One  Loaf). 
One  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled;  one  tablespoon  butter 
melted  in  the  hot  milk ;  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  level  table- 
spoon sugar,  one-fourth  yeast  cake,  about  four  cups  of  flour. 
Measure  the  milk  after  scalding;  add  the  butter,  sugar  and 
salt.  When  cool  add  the  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
one-fourth  cup  lukewarm  water.  Then  stir  in  the  flour  grad- 
ually. When  it  is  well  mixed  and  does  not  adhere  to  sides  of 
the  bowl,  turn  onto  the  board  lightly  floured,  and  knead  until 
small  white  blisters  appear  on  the  surface.  Cover  closely  and 
set  it  out  of  a  draft.  In  the  morning  it  should  have  doubled 
in  bulk ;  if  so,  cut  through  and  through  and  turn  with  a  knife, 
cover  and  let  rise  until  light.  Shape  into  loaf,  put  into  pan, 
cover  and  let  rise  to  top  of  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about 
forty-five  minutes. 

Right  Coal,  Right  Price,  Right  Treatment,  or  Money  Back  at  Holmes'. 


To  make  one  loaf  of  day  bread,  mix  in  the  morning  same 
quantities  as  above,  but  instead  of  one-fourth  dissolve  one 
whole  yeast  cake  in  one-fourth  cup  lukewarm  water,  then  pro- 
ceed as  above. — Nellie  Lyons. 

OAT  MEAL  BREAD  (Good). 

Two  and  one-half  cups  rolled  oats  cooked, 
Two  and  one-half  level  tablespoons  lard, 
Two  and  one-half  dessertspoons  salt. 
One  and  one-fourth  yeast  cakes, 
One  and  one-fourth  cups  molasses. 
Three-fourths  teaspoon  baking  soda, 
Two  and  one-half  quarts  flour. 

G.  B.  Beattie. 

Best  Postcard  Views  of  Brockton  at  Holmes'.  58  Main  St. 

OATMEAL  BREAD. 

One  cup  rolled  oats ;  add  two  cups  boiling  water ;  let  stand 
one  hour.  Then  add  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one  yeast  cake,  one  and  one-half  cups  warm  water.  Add 
bread  flour  enough  to  make  it  very  stiff.  Put  in  quite  deep, 
narrow  pans.  Let  rise  until  light,  and  bake. — Mrs.  Bligh  Tel- 
fer. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Four  cups  graham  flour ;  four  cups  white  flour ;  one  tea- 
spoon salt ;  three  tablespoonfuls  molasses ;  one  tablespoonful 
lard;  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  warm  water.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  warm  water,  not  too  stiff;  let  rise;  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Twomey. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Two  cups  graham  flour ;  one  cup  white  flour ;  one-half  cup 
molasses ;  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk ;  one  teaspoon  soda ; 
little  salt.     Makes  one  loaf. — Mrs.  F.  S.  Johnson. 

Best  Postcard   Views  of   Broci<ton   at   Holmes',   58   Main   St. 
12 


GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two  cups 
white  flour,  four  cups  graham  flour,  one-fourth  cup  lukewarm 
water,  one-fourth  yeast  cake,  two  teaspoons  salt.  Mix  milk, 
molasses  and  salt.  When  lukewarm  add  dissolved  yeast  cake ; 
sifted  white  and  graham  flour.  Beat  well  and  rise  to  nearly 
double  its  bulk,  beat  again  and  put  in  buttered  bread  pans  or 
shape  like  biscuit,  let  rise  and  bake  in  oven  cooler  than  for 
white  bread.  Loaves,  one  and  one-fourth  hours ;  biscuit,  thirty 
minutes. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wade. 

Best  Postcard  Views  of  Brockton  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Sift  one  quart  of  graham  flour,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt; 
beat  one  teaspoon  soda  in  one  cup  molasses  until  it  becomes 
yellow.  Then  pour  on  flour;  one  pint  milk,  beat  well.  Cover 
pans  with  paper  while  baking.  This  quantity  makes  four 
loaves  which  look  like  dark  cake. — Mrs.  Ellen  Mullins. 

BROWN   BREAD  Cand  Method  of  Baking). 

One  pint  rye  meal,  one  pint  fine  corn  meal,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  small  cup  molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  salt.  Mix 
quite  soft  with  water  or  part  milk.  Butter  well  a  tin  such  as 
holds  one  pound  coffee.  Pour  in  mixture,  set  in  a  lard  pail 
of  larger  size,  cover  both  tightly,  filling  space  between  the  two 
with  hot  water,  and  bake  from  noon  until  six  o'clock.  It  will 
need  no  attention  if  kept  closely  covered. — Mrs.  L.  W.  Puffer. 

Best  Postcard  Views  of   Broci<ton   at  Holmes',  58   Main  St. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  corn  meal,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two  cups  sour 
milk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  soda,  one  cup  graham  flour, 
one  cup  rye  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt.  Put  soda 
through  a  fine  sieve,  add  to  dry  ingredients  and  sift  again. 
Add  molasses  and  sour  milk.  Beat  well.  Pour  in  buttered 
mould,  steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wade. 

13 


BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cupfuls  corn  meal,  one  cupful  rye  meal,  three  cupfuls 
sour  milk,  one-half  cupful  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  soda,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Steam  four  hours,  bake  ten  minutes. — Mrs. 
Charles  Tully. 

If  You   Want   Hay,   Grain   and    Straw   Satisfaction,    0    Holmes. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

One  cup  corn  meal,  two  cups  shredded  wheat  crumbs,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  one  tea- 
spoon cold  water ;  one  cup  molasses,  two  cups  milk ;  steam 
three  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Merritt. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  entire  wheat,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup 
milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  cup  seedless  raisins,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  soda;  steam  three  hours  if  in  a  loaf; 
steam  two  hours  if  in  cups. — Mrs.  John  W.  Simmons. 

NUT  BREAD. 

Four  cups  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  table- 
spoons sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  cups  chopped 
walnuts,  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  or 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  in  loaf  and  let  rise  one- 
half  hour.  Bake  slowly  one  hour.  Use  as  other  bread. — Mrs. 
R.  D.  Poole. 

If   You   Want   Hay,   Grain   and   Straw   Satisfaction,   C    Holmes. 


TmSISftOLMES 

STORE-  58  MAIN  ST.  OFFICE: 


14 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


15 


Who  Burns  HOLMES' 
Soft  Shamokin  Coal? 

0r  We  never  sold  coal  that  gave  such  universal 
^      satisfaction  for  the  cook  stove  as  our  Special 

-U  Soft  Shamokin  does,  and  a  customer  who 
tries  it  once  is  usually  more  enthusiastic  over  its 
merits  than  we  dare  to  be.  If  we  made  as  strong 
claims  for  it  as  our  customers  do,  we  might  be 
charged  with  misrepresenting  our  goods  in  order  to 
make  a  sale.  We  positively  guarantee  our  coals 
(all  of  them)  to  be  exactly  as  represented  or  money 
refunded.  ^  If  you  get  any  coal  of  us  and  it  does 
not  seem  to  be  the  right  kind  to  use  in  your  par- 
ticular stove,  we  will  willingly  change  it  for  you. 
^  We  believe  that  "a  pleased  customer  is  the  best 
advertisement,"  and  as  we  also  believe  in  adver- 
tising, we  try  our  hardest  to  get  "the  best  adver- 
tisement." ^  Ask  any  of  the  hundreds  of  ladies 
who  use  our  Special  Shamokin,  or  any  of  the  hun- 
dreds of  others  who  have  bought  other  kinds  of 
coal  of  us  if  they  are  not  "pleased  customers." 
^  Take  no  substitute.  There  is  nothing,  at  the 
price,  "just  as  good"  as  our  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin Coal.  ^  We  do  not  advertise  our  other  coals 
extensively,  but  we  have  them,  and  warrant  them 
to  be  first-class  in  every  respect.  ^  We  sell  for 
cash.  It  costs  nothing  to  collect  our  bills.  The 
money  saved  in  this  way  we  pay  out  to  make  our 
coal  clean  and  free  from  stone  and  slate. 

^  Don't  you  know  this  from  your  own 
experience? 


i6 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 
Two  cups  scalded  milk,  three  tablespoons  butter,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one 
and  one-fourth  cups  lukewarm  water,  use  almost  five  and  one- 
half  cups  flour.  Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk;  when 
lukewarm  add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  three  cups  flour.  Beat 
thoroughly,  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  and  add  enough  flour 
to  knead  (it  will  take  about  two  and  one-half  cups).  Let 
rise  again.  Toss  on  lightly  floured  board,  knead,  pat  and  roll 
out  to  one-third  inch  thickness.  Shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter 
first  dipped  in  flour.  Dip  the  handle  of  a  case  knife  in  flour 
and  with  it  make  a  crease  through  the  middle  of  each  piece; 
brush  over  one-half  of  each  piece  with  melted  butter,  fold  and 
press  edges  together.  Place  in  a  greased  pan,  one  inch  apart. 
Cover,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twelve  to  fifteen  min- 
uts. — Mrs.  Walter  Bradford. 

p.  O.  station  4,  58   Main  St.,   Does   More   Post  Office   Business  Than  Any 
Town  in  the  State. 

SALLY  LUNN. 
Scald  one  cup  milk  and  pour  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  butter  and  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  When  luke- 
warm, add  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water, 
three  well  beaten  eggs  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiflf  batter ; 
let  rise  until  very  light.  Pour  into  buttered  muflin  tins,  let 
rise  again  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Harrison. 

POTATO  BISCUIT. 
Two  cups  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  lard,  a  little  salt,  one 
good  cup  mashed  potato,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder.    Mix 
with  half  milk  and  half  water.     Bake  in  a  large  pan  so  they 
won't  touch  one  another. —  (C.) 

p.   O.   Station   4,  58   Main   St.,    Does   More   Post   Office   Business   Than   Any 
Town  in  the  State. 

17 


SALAD  ROLLS. 

Dissolve  three  yeast  cakes  in  one  cup  lukewarm  water,  add 
one  pint  milk  scalded  and  cooled,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  two  teaspoons  sugar.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough  and  knead  one-half  hour,  using  as  little 
flour  as  possible  in  kneading.  Then  without  waiting  for  it  to 
rise,  divide  into  equal  parts  for  small  rolls  and  shape  into  balls 
and  then  into  finger  rolls,  or  press  a  small  knife  handle  through 
the  middle,  making  cleft  rolls ;  put  the  rolls  into  pan,  cover 
with  a  cloth  and  let  rise  about  forty-five  minutes,  then  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  twenty  to  forty  minutes  according  to  size.  Do 
not  stop  kneading  until  the  time  is  up  or  let  the  dough  stand 
before  shaping.  Do  not  disturb  the  dough  while  rising.  The 
idea  is  to  make  the  dough  light  quickly.  In  less  than  two 
hours  you  will  have  nice  light  rolls,  with  no  trace  of  yeast.  The 
crust  will  look  hard  but  will  be  light  and  tender. — Mrs.  C.  C. 
Merritt. 

Bring    Your    Cash    With    Your    Coal    Order    and    Get    a    Useful    Present    at 
58   Main   St.     This    is   Holmes'. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS. 

Scald  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  and  place  in  a  mixing 
bowl  with  one-half  cup  sugar;  when  lukewarm  (not  hot)  add 
one-half  yeast  cake  which  has  been  softened  in  two  tablespoons 
warm  water ;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  the  batter  is  double  its  bulk, 
cream  in  two  tablespoons  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg,  one-half  cup 
currants,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  knead.  Knead  five 
minutes  and  let  rise  again.  Then  mould  into  round  biscuits 
and  gash  a  cross  on  the  top  of  each.  When  well  risen,  bake 
twenty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  This  will  make  twenty 
buns,  and  they  are  delicious.  In  the  old  countries  the  "Hot 
Cross  Bun"  is  the  favorite  bread  eaten  on  Good  Friday. — 
Mary  Sullivan — Jerusalem. 

Bring    Your   Cash   With    Your   Coal    Order   and    Get    a    Useful    Present   at 
58   Main   St.     This    Is   Holmes'. 


FINE  BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 
One  quart  flour,  one  pint  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,   three   tablespoonfuls   lard,   even   teaspoonful   salt. — 
Mrs.  W.  F.  Hyatt. 

Bring    Your   Cash   With   Your   Coal    Order   and    Get   a    Useful    Present   at 
58   Main  St.     This  is  Holmes'. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 
One  quart  flour,  measured  after  sifting;  one  even  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  three  rounding  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  sift  all 
together  two  or  three  times.  Rub  in  one  large  tablespoonful 
butter  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  until  as  fine  as  meal ;  add  milk 
gradually  to  make  a  soft  dough,  it  will  take  nearly  if  not  quite 
a  pint;  when  just  stiff  enough  to  be  handled,  turn  it  on  to  a 
well  floured  board;  toss  with  a  knife  until  well  floured;  pat 
it  with  a  rolling  pin  but  do  not  roll  it,  and  when  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  cut  into  rounds  and  bake  at  once  in  a  hot  oven. — 
Mrs.  J.  I.  Merritt. 

PUFF  BALL  MUFFINS. 
One  well  beaten  tgg,  one  dessertspoonful  sugar,  pinch  of 
salt,  one  cup  milk ;  add  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  beat  until 
bubbles  arise;  add  three  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Pour  into  hot  buttered  gem  pans. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Vining. 

Bring    Your   Cash   With   Your   Coal    Order   and   Get   a    Useful    Present   at 
58   Main   St.     This   is   Holmes'. 

MUFFINS. 
One  egg,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar  sifted  into  one  and  one-half  cups  flour. 
Bake  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven.  This  recipe  makes  eight 
muffins. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Lynch. 

RYE  MUFFINS. 
One  rounding  cup  rye  meal,  one  rounding  cup  pastry  flour, 
one  rounding  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  egg,  one  level  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  and  one-eighth  cups  milk.     Sift  meal,  flour, 


baking  powder  and  salt  together ;  add  milk  and  one  egg  well 
beaten ;  beat  all  together  until  light.  Put  in  muffin  pans,  bake 
in  a  hot  oven.  This  will  make  twelve  muffins. — Margaret 
Lyons, 

BRAKFAST  GEMS. 
One  egg,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter, 
two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs,  add 
sugar,  butter  and  one  cup  milk ;  lastly  flour  and  baking  powder 
sifted  together;  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
George  M.  Hart. 

Rich   and    Poor,   All    Used   Alike,   58   Main    St.     This    Is    Holmes'. 

POPOVERS  (fine) 
Beat  two  eggs  without  separating  whites  and  yolks,  until 
light;  add  two  cups  milk,  then  continue  beating  with  an  egg 
beater  while  two  cups  of  sifted  flour  sifted  again  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt  are  gradually  beaten  into  the  liquid  mixture. 
Butter  an  iron  muffin  pan,  one  with  round  cups  preferred, 
and  put  a  level  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  each  cup.  Then  turn 
in  the  batter,  filling  the  cups  two-thirds  full.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  thirty-five  minutes.  This  recipe  makes  about 
twelve  large  popovers. — Mary  Westberg. 

POPOVERS. 
One  cup  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  seven-eighths  cup 
milk,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  melted  butter.  Mix  salt 
and  flour ;  add  milk  gradually ;  add  egg,  beaten  until  light,  and 
butter  which  has  been  melted.  Then  beat  two  minutes,  turn 
into  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  twenty-five  to  thirty-five  minutes 
in  hot  oven.  Iron  gem  pans  are  best  for  popovers. — Mrs. 
H.  T.  Rhoades. 

Rich   and   Poor,  All    Used  Alike,  58   Main   St.     This   Is   Holmes'. 

CORN  BREAD. 
One  cup  granulated  Indian  meal,  four  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon- 
ful baking  powder,  a  little  salt.     Bake  in  a  buttered  pan. — 
Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Holland. 


BREAKFAST  CORN  CAKE. 
One  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  Indian  meal,  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  tea- 
spoons cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  Minnie  Wade  Rogers. 

CORN  CAKE. 

One  egg,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  one 
cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  large  cup  white 
flour,  three-fourths  cup  Indian  meal,  one  full  teaspoon  baking 
powder. — Mrs.  Annie  McCarthy. 

Rich  and   Poor,  All    Used  Alike,  58   Main  St.     This   Is   Holmes'. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

One  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  salt,  one  cup  flour,  level  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  a  very  heaping  tablespoonful  corn 
meal,  one-half  cup  milk.  Mix  flour,  corn  meal,  sugar,  salt  and 
baking  powder  thoroughly ;  beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk  and  stir 
into  dry  mixture.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  quick  oven. — 
—Mrs.  S.  H.  Eaton. 

WHITE  CORN  MEAL  CAKES. 

One  cup  granulated  white  corn  meal,  add  salt  and  a  Httle 
soda  as  large  as  a  pea.  Then  partially  scald  the  meal  with  boil- 
ing water.  Then  add  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  two  of  flour, 
a  small  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  wet  it  up  with  milk. 
Have  your  fat  about  one-half  inch  deep  in  the  frying  pan  and 
drop  in  by  spoonfuls,  turning  quickly  and  often.  Have  dough 
rather  stiff. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Cook-Whitman. 

Rich   and    Poor,   Ail    Used   Alike,   58   Main    St.     This    Is    Holmes'. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Two  cups  cold  boiled  rice,  broken  with  a  fork ;  one  and  one- 
half  cups  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  milk  or  more  if  bread  is 
dry;  three  unbeaten  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  dessert- 
spoon sugar.  Brown  nicely  in  buttered  frying  pan. — Mrs. 
H.  E.  Merritt. 


COFFEE  CAKES. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses, one-half  cup  strong  coffee,  one  cup  raisins  (chopped), 
two  cups  pastry  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  nutmeg,  clove  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  small 
tins.  Will  make  fourteen  or  sixteen  cakes. — Mrs.  W.  H. 
Poole. 

VIRGINIA  WAFFLES. 

One  cup  white  corn  meal,  two  cups  boiling  water,  one  cup 
milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one-fourth  cup  melted  butter,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  three 
teaspoons  baking  powder. — Annie  E.  Wade. 

Hay,  Grain  and  Poultry  Supplies  at  Holmes'  Ames  St.  Office. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

One  cup  buckwheat  flour,  one  level  tablespoon  sugar,  one- 
half  level  teaspoon  salt,  two  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk.  Small  cakes  and  serve  with 
butter  (softened)  and  maple  syrup. — Mrs.    W.  H.  Poole. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Take  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  required.  Toast  them  light- 
ly and  butter;  pile  on  plate.  Put  one  quart  of  fresh  milk  in 
spider  and  heat  quite  hot.  Take  each  slice  of  buttered  toast, 
dip  in  hot  milk  for  a  minute,  removing  without  breaking  to 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Thicken  the  remaining  milk 
with  a  little  corn  starch  to  the  consistency  of  gravy,  add  a  little 
salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  and  pour  over  toast.  If  needed  add 
a  little  more  milk  to  the  spider  after  dipping  toast.  Serve  im- 
mediately.— Mrs.  E.  C.  Cahoon. 

Hay,   Grain   and   Poultry  Supplies   at   Holmes'   Ames  St.   Office. 

BROWN  BREAD  TOAST. 

Cut  stale  brown  bread  into  slices  and  toast,  taking  care  not 
to  scorch  it.  Butter  liberally  and  sent  hot  to  table. — Ahina 
Lyons. 


STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

One  full  pint  pastry  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoon  soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  shortening  well 
rubbed  in ;  mix  with  milk ;  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  two  cakes, 
when  done  spread  over  with  butter. 

Filling. — Two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  pint  strawberries,  one 
cup  cream.  I  think  the  canned  strawberries  are  equally  as 
good. — Mrs.  T.  Gushing. 

Hay,   Grain   and   Poultry  Supplies  at   Holmes'   Ames  St.   Office. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  OMELET. 

Crush  one  shredded  wheat  biscuit  and  add  to  it  one  egg 
beaten  and  a  little  milk,  enough  to  moisten  the  whole ;  a  very 
little  salt  and  one-half  teaspoon  sugar.  When  thoroughly 
mixed  and  soft  spread  on  a  buttered  frying  pan  and  brown 
both  sides  of  the  cake.  This  quantity  serves  one  person. — Mrs. 
L.  H.  Shaw. 

DAD'S  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One-half  cup  of  Indian  meal,  pinch  of  salt,  very  small  pinch 
of  soda,  one  tablespoon  of  molasses.  Pour  hot,  but  not  boil- 
ing water  in  until  you  get  a  thin  batter,  add  about  two  table- 
spoons of  flour,  thin  out  with  milk  to  the  right  consistency 
and  fry. — D.  C.  Holmes. 

Hay,  Grain  and  Poultry  Supplies  at  Holmes'  Ames  St.  Office. 

NANTUCKET  CORN  MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Take  one  cup  corn  meal  and  two  cups  of  white  flour,  and 
add  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  fairly  thick  batter,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  beat  until 
very  light.  Let  stand  over  night.  Just  before  frying,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  sweet  milk,  and  one 
or  two  eggs  ;  beat  again  thoroughly,  and  if  too  thick,  use 
more  sweet  milk  to  thin  batter.  Rub  the  griddle  with  a  piece 
of  salt  pork,  when  it  is  hot,  and  fry  at  once. 

— Mary  B.  Nesbitt,  Nantucket. 
23 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


24 


All  these  are 
Kickers ! 


58 


Most  hotel  patrons. 

Most  school  patrons. 

Most  railroad  patrons. 

Most  telegraph  patrons. 

All  street  car  patrons. 

All  newspaper  patrons  and  reporters. 

All  base  ball  cranks  and  preachers. 

All  traveling  men  and  poets. 

Some  cooks. 

Some  disappointed  politicians  and  lovers. 

Some  labor  agitators  and  women 

suffragists. 
Most  old  maids  and  all  old  bachelors. 
Most  drinkers  and  all  "reformed  drinkers. " 
All  minority  parties  and  reform  bodies 

and  all  those  who  refuse  to  reform. 
Most  mistresses  of  hired  girls,    and    all 

hired  girls  who  are  not  given 

Holmes'  Special  Soft  Shamokin  Coal 

to  cook  with. 


-^r  Telephone 

(XI  ii    uyL»  Connection. 

25 


Eggs. 

OMELET. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three  together 
with  one  teaspoon  corn  starch,  a  httle  salt  and  pepper,  one- 
fourth  cup  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk.  Put  into 
a  well  buttered  frying  pan  and  cook  a  light  brown.  When 
ready  to  take  up,  beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  stiff  and 
spread  it  on,  then  fold  the  omelet  over  and  serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Thome. 

Peanut   Coal — Holmes'   Special — a    Money   Saver. 

POACHED  EGGS. 
Boil  one  pint  milk.  While  boiling,  beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth ; 
just  before  milk  begins  to  boil  add  one-half  tablespoon  butter 
and  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  stir  into  it.  Then  pour  in  the 
eggs,  stir  gently  until  it  thickens,  not  more  than  two  minutes. 
Take  from  stove  and  continue  to  stir  half  a  minute,  then  pour 
over  two  or  three  slices  of  toasted  bread,  which  have  been  pre- 
viously spread  with  butter.  Very  nice  for  breakfast. — Mrs. 
Georgianna  Jordan. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  CREAMED  SALMON. 
Stamp  out  four  rounds  of  bread  an  inch  thick;  remove  the 
centers,  leaving  a  case  with  a  narrow  rim.  Brush  over  the 
outside  of  the  cases  with  melted  butter  and  brown  them  in  the 
oven.  Fill  with  canned  salmon,  flaked  and  heated  in  a  cupful 
of  cream  sauce.  Dispose  a  poached  tgg  about  salmon. 
Serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  G.  F. 
Jordan. 

Peanut   Coal — Holmes'   Special — a    Money   Saver. 

HARD  BOILED  EGGS. 
Put  eggs  in  a  sauce  pan,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let 
stand  on  part  of  the  range  where  they  will  keep  just  below 
boiling  point  for  twenty  minutes.    This  will  make  the  yolk  dry 
and  mealy. — Mrs.  Mae  Simpson. 

26 


EGGS  A  LA  SUISSE. 
Cover  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  two  ounces  fresh  butter. 
Cover  with  grated  cheese.  Break  eight  eggs  carefully  and  put 
little  paprika  and  salt  on  each.  Add  a  little  cream  and  cover 
eggs  with  two  ounces  grated  cheese.  Brown  in  hot  oven  about 
twenty  minutes. — Inez  M.  R.  Hill. 

Peanut  Coal — Holmes'  Special — a   Money  Saver. 

EGGS  A  LA  CREME. 
Eight  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  cup  white  sauce,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  fine  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Slice  six  of 
the  eggs  and  put  them  in  a  pudding  dish  with  the  white  sauce. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  other  two  eggs  through  a  sieve ;  mix  them 
with  the  bread  crumbs  and  sprinkle  them  over  the  top  of  the 
dish.  Put  bits  of  butter  here  and  there.  Garnish  the  dish 
around  the  sides  with  points  of  buttered  toast  and  the  extra 
whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  rings.  Set  the  dish  in  the  oven  until 
browned  on  top. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

DELICATE  EGG. 
Separate  white  from  yolk  of  a  perfectly  fresh  egg,  being 
careful  not  to  break  yolk.  Salt  white  and  beat  very  stiff  and 
put  in  a  buttered  cup ;  set  cup  in  hot  water  in  oven ;  cover  and 
leave  until  just  set,  about  a  minute  I  think.  Turn  out  on  slice 
of  thin,  hot  toast. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Lawrence. 

Peanut  Coal — Holmes'  Special — a   Money  Saver. 

BEST  OMELET  EVER  MADE. 
Four  eggs,  beating  yolks  separately ;  dissolve  four  teaspoon- 
fuls  flour  in  little  milk;  stir  into  egg.  Scald  one  teacup  milk, 
adding  a  small  teaspoon  butter  and  mix  all  together ;  then  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  whole.  Take  the  milk  to 
dissolve  flour  from  the  cupful.  Butter  spider  and  when  edges 
are  set  and  puffed  in  center,  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Cheese, 
ham,  chicken,  etc.  minced  fine  to  fold  in. — Mrs.  Minnie  Wade 
Rogers. 

27 


PRESERVING  EGGS. 

(From  the  United  States  Agricultural  Department.) 
Fill  an  earthern  or  water-tight  wooden  vessel  with  eggs.  To 
one  part  of  water  glass,  also  known  as  soluble  glass,  and  sili- 
cate of  soda,  add  ten  parts  of  tepid  water,  stirring  the  water 
thoroughly  and  slowly  into  the  water  glass.  When  the  result- 
ant mixture  is  cold,  pour  it  gently  over  the  eggs,  using  suffi- 
cient to  immerse  them.  Three  pints  of  water  glass  and  thirty 
pints  or  fifteen  quarts  wili  generally  cover  fifty  dozen  of  eggs. 
Keep  the  vessel  well  covered  and  in  a  cool  place. — Copied  by 
Mrs.  L.  H.  Shaw. 


Uarnuma 


was  thirty  feet  long,  if  you  let  Bamum  tell  it.  When 
called  to  account,  he  used  to  say  that  the  snake 
measured  fifteen  feet  from  head  to  tail,  and  fifteen 
more  from  tail  back  to  head.  Do  not  judge  the  dead 
show  man  hastily.  There  are  many  business  men 
today  who  think  that  if  one-half  they  tell  is  the  truth, 
they  are  doing  well. 

i[[  We  want  to  talk  Stationery  to  you,  and  we  do  not 
claim  gold  dollars  for  forty  cents.  We  might  claim 
that  our  2  5 -cent  box  papers  were  worth  half-a- 
dollar,  but  they  are  simply  the  best  we  can  possibly 
buy  to  sell  for  a  quarter. 

^  Our  new  1  5-cent  paper  would  be  "sold  at  a  great 
sacrifice"  if  it  was  in  some  stores,  but  we  bought  it  to 
sell  for  I  5  cents,  and  when  you  see  it  you  will  see 
the  value,  h  is  the  best  we  ever  had  for  the  price. 
^  Our  1 0-cent  box  papers,  24  sheets  of  paper  and 
24  envelopes,  are  the  best  in  the  city.  "A  pleased 
customer  is  the  best  advertisement."     We  can  please 


you  at 


58  MAIN  ST. 


28 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


29 


OAL  in  Paper  Bags 
with  the  hod  printed 
on  them. 


THIS  is  the  COAL  that  costs  you 
nothing  if  not  perfectly  satisfactory. 
Your  grocer  will  take  your  name 
cind  pay  you  back   your   money.     We 
protect  him. 

^  This  coal  is  Holmes'  Special  Shamo- 
kin,  that  sells  for  75  cents  a  ton  more  thein 
other  bag  coals,  and  gives  better  satis- 
faction. This  is  the  coal  that  is  all  stove 
size  in  the  bags  marked  "S";  all  No.  I 
Shamokin  Nut  in  the  bags  marked  "N"; 
and  vs^e  have  a  bag  printed  in  red  ink 
and  marked  "P"  that  sells  for  2  cents  less 
and  contains  our  popular  Peemut  Coal. 
^  We  do  not  mix  the  sizes  to  make 
money.  Ask  your  grocer  for  this  coal, 
and  you  may  be  sure  to  get  just  w^hat 
you  pay  for. 


3° 


Soups. 

PUREE  OF  CANNED  SALMON. 

Remove  the  oil,  bones  and  skin  from  one-half  can  salmon ; 
chop  the  salmon  very  fine.  Boil  one  quart  milk;  melt  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  stir  into  it  two  level  tablespoon fuls  flour ; 
add  the  hot  milk  to  this  in  small  quantities  blending  each  time, 
until  perfectly  smooth ;  add  the  salmon  and  when  heated  it  is 
ready  to  serve. — Hannah  A.  Hale. 

Diaries,  Almanacs  and  All   Kinds  of  Reading   Matter  at  Holmes'. 

CORN   PUREE. 

One  can  corn,  one  pint  boiling  water,  one  pint  milk,  one  slice 
onion,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  salt,  very 
little  pepper.  Chop  the  corn,  add  water  and  simmer  twenty 
minutes ;  rub  through  a  sieve ;  scald  milk  with  onion,  remove 
onion  and  add  milk  to  corn.  Bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together.    Add  salt  and  pepper. — M.  G.  Weston. 

TOMATO  BISQUE  SOUP. 

One  pint  can  of  tomato,  one  pint  milk,  scalded  separately ; 
thicken  milk  with  one  teaspoon  corn  starch ;  put  together  and 
strain;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  add  a  little  sugar 
if  desired. — Mrs.  L.  F.  Gurney. 

Diaries,   Almanacs   and   All    Kinds  of    Reading    Matter   at    Holmes'. 

DELICATE  SOUP. 

Cook  two  onions  thinly  sliced  in  one-fourth  cup  of  butter 
ten  minutes;  add  one  quart  chicken  stock,  cook  slowly  thirty 
minutes ;  strain ;  thicken  with  two  and  one-half  level  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  one 
cup  cream  or  rich  milk ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  just 
before  sending  to  table  add  one  tablespoonful  finely  chopped 
green  peppers. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

3.1 


PEANUT  SOUP. 
Take  two  tablespoonfuls  peanut  butter  and  one  tablespoon 
flour,  cream  together  and  pour  slowly  over  this  one  pint  boil- 
ing water;  stir  constantly  to  keep  smooth.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Add  to  this  one  pint  scalded  milk.  If  too  thick 
add  more  hot  water.  Serve  immediately  with  croutons  or 
crackers.    To  be  made  of  home  made  butter. — Mary  Packard. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP. 
Take  two  quarts  of  chicken  stock  for  foundation.  Boil  one 
pint  of  milk ;  chop  one  cupful  celery  fine ;  add  to  chicken  stock 
with  two  onions ;  boil  thirty  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  black 
and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Strain  and  thicken  with  Roux. 
To  make  a  Roux,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  melt ;  then  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour;  add  this  to  the  boiling  milk,  then  the 
strained  chicken  stock. — Mrs.  Ellis  B.  Holmes. 

Right  Coal,  Right  Price,  Right  Treatment,  or  IVIoney  Baci<  at  Holmes'. 

CELERY   SOUP. 

One  head  celery,  one  pint  water,  one  pint  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful chopped  onion,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pep- 
per. Wash  and  scrape  celery,  cut  into  half  inch  pieces,  cook 
in  one  pint  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Cook  the  onion 
with  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  ten  minutes,  add  to  the  celery. 
Rub  all  through  a  strainer  and  put  on  to  boil  again ;  cook  but- 
ter and  flour  together  and  stir  into  boiling  soup.  Add  salt  and 
pepper,  boil  five  minutes,  then  strain  into  the  tureen. — Inez 
M.  R.  Hill. 

PARSNIP  STEW. 

Boil  one-half  pound  fat  and  lean  pork  two  hours,  having 
plenty  of  water.  Clean  three  parsnips  and  cut  in  quite  thin 
slices,  one  onion  of  good  size;  add  these  to  the  boiling  pork 
and  simmer  for  one  hour;  add  a  quart  bowl  of  potatoes  cut 
in  quite  small  pieces  and  cooked  until  thoroughly  done. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  celery  salt. — Mrs.  W.  H. 
Poole. 

32 


PEA  SOUP. 

One  cup  dried  split  peas  soaked  in  cold  water  three  hours; 
drain  and  put  on  to  boil  in  two  and  one-half  quarts  water  and 
one  onion  and  a  ham  bone.  Cook  until  soft  and  rub  through 
sieve.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  celery  salt  also  if  desired. 
This  makes  a  good  porridge.  If  a  soup  is  desired  dilute  with 
milk  or  cream. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

Right  Coal,  Right  Price,  Right  Treatment,  or  Money  Back  at  Holmes'. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  one  pint  of  water,  two  tablespoons 
Scotch  oatmeal,  scant  teaspoon  sugar  and  pinch  of  salt;  let 
it  boil  together  a  long  time.  Take  off  and  strain,  add  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — 
Mrs.  Allie  V.  Packard. 


ZZ 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


34 


■     1  • 


ELxpenence 

has  demonstrated  that  our  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin  Coal  in  the  cook  stove  is  not  an 


Experiment. 


It  is  a  fuel  of  assured  value,  and  has 
the  endorsement  of 


EiXperts 


in  the  science  of  cooking.    They  agree  that  its 
qualities  as  a  cooking  fuel  are  something 

Extraordinary 

not  merely  because  it  is  clean  and  free 
from  stone  and  slate,  but  it  is  also 

Excellent 

coal  to  kindle  quick,  and  hold 
fire  well.     The 

Expense 

of  housekeeping  is  reduced  by^  buying  coal  at 
58  MAIN  STREET. 


35 


Fish  and  Shell  Fish. 

HADDOCK  A  LA  RAREBIT. 

One  cup  milk  or  thin  cream,  one-half  cup  flour,  two  cups 
shredded  cheese,  two  teaspoons  mustard,  pinch  salt,  one  table- 
spoon butter.  Heat  the  milk,  add  flour,  salt  and  mustard,  sifted 
together.  Stir  until  thick  and  smooth,  then  add  cheese  and  but- 
ter. Have  haddock  (four  and  one-half  or  five  lbs.)  split  down 
back,  bone  removed.  Lay  on  a  buttered  platter.  Spread  the 
dressing  over  and  bake  until  a  rich  brown  in  gas  oven.  Serve 
on  same  platter. — Eloise  D.  Harris,  Melrose. 

Cribbage  Boards,  Playing  Cards,  etc.,  at  Holmes'. 

BAKED  HALIBUT. 

Two  pounds  halibut  steaks.  Make  poultry  dressing,  put 
between  slices,  press  together  in  shape  of  loaf;  stand  on  the 
edge  and  cover  with  dressing.  Skewer  on  very  thin  slices  of 
salt  pork,  with  wooden  toothpicks,  removed  when  baked ;  add 
one-quarter  cup  water  and  bake  one  hour.  Take  from  the 
pan,  add  one  cup  cream  to  contents  of  pan,  stir  and  cook  two 
minutes  on  top  of  stove ;  pour  over  the  fish  when  ready  to 
serve. — Mrs.  E.  W.  McAllister. 

Cribbage  Boards,  Playing  Cards,  etc.,  at  Holmes'. 

BAKED  HALIBUT  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Clean  two  pounds  halibut,  put  in  baking  pan,  pour  around 
half  the  sauce,  bake  forty  minutes,  basting  often. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Two  cups  tomatoes,  one  cup  water,  one 
slice  onion,  three  cloves,  one-half  tablespoon  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons butter,  three  tablespoons  flour,  three-fourths  teaspoon 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  tomato,  water,  onion 
and  cloves  together  for  twenty  minutes ;  then  add  sugar,  but- 
ter, flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  ten  minutes  more.  Strain. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Hall. 

36 


BAKED  HALIBUT. 
Take  two  pounds  of  halibut,  fill  with  stuffing  made  as  fol- 
lows :  Three  crackers  pounded  fine,  one  egg,  one  pint  milk,  one 
ounce  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Bake  one  hour. — 
Mrs.  S.  E.  Stedman. 

Cribbage  Boards,  Playing  Cards,  etc.,  at  Holmes'. 

FILLET  OF  HALIBUT. 

Dress  fish  and  cut  in  fillets.  Melt  one-fourth  cup  butter, 
add  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Dip  fil- 
lets in  mixture,  dredge  with  flour  and  bake  twelve  minutes. 
Serve  with  Allemande  Sauce. 

Allemande  Sauce. — Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  stock  or  milk,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Just  before  serving  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs. — Maria  W.  Howard. 

SALMON  LOAF. 

One  can  salmon  (flaked),  four  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  bread  crumbs,  dry  and 
fine,  pepper,  salt.     Steam  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Sauce. — Make  a  white  sauce  of  milk  thickened  with  corn 
starch;  add  one  well  beaten  egg  and  liquor  from  can  of 
salmon. — B.  O.  G. 

Cribbage  Boards,  Playing  Cards,  etc.,  at  Holmes'. 

TURBAN  OF  FISH. 

Take  two  pounds  of  halibut,  cod  or  haddock,  boil  twenty 
minutes  in  salted  water  to  which  one  tablespoonful  vinegar 
has  been  added.  Let  fish  get  cold  and  separate  into  flakes. 
Into  a  double  boiler  put  one  quart  milk  and  a  small  onion 
sliced ;  scald  milk  and  remove  onion ;  melt  one-half  cup  butter, 
add  one-half  cup  flour,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
celery  salt  and  pepper;  add  hot  milk  gradually,  then  add  two 
eggs  well  beaten.    Put  a  layer  of  fish  on  buttered  dish,  sprinkle 

37 


with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  sauce ;  continue  until  sauce 
and  fish  are  used,  having  sauce  last;  cover  with  buttered 
cracker  crumbs  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 
— Mrs.  A.  Wesley  Stetson. 

BAKED    SWORDFISH. 

Take  two  pounds  of  fish  (have  cut  in  a  thick  piece).  But- 
ter an  agate  pan  and  put  in  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
flour  and  little  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  good  hot  oven 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Just  before  taking  from  the  pan, 
pour  over  one  cup  nice  cream. — Mrs.  Orrin  Joslyn. 

Coal    Promptly    Delivered   When    Promised    at    Holmes'. 

FRIED  EELS,   CAPE  COD   STYLE    (Delicious). 

After  an  eel  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned  and  finned,  cut  in 
short  pieces  about  one  and  one-half  inches  long,  so  as  to  hide 
the  shape.  Fry  out  two  fair-sized  slices  of  fat  pork,  for  an 
ordinary  spider,  then  place  the  eels  in  the  fat  in  the  spider  and 
season  with  salt  and  cover  closely;  let  them  cook  very  slowly 
(just  simmer)  until  tender.  Then  place  directly  over  the  fire, 
take  the  cover  off  the  eels  and  fry  brown  quickly. — Mrs.  Zenas 
W.  Lewis. 

Coal   Promptly   Delivered   When    Promised   at   Holmes'. 

FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Choose  a  thick  fish.  Put  in  a  saucepan,  flesh  side  down ; 
cover  this  with  cold  water  and  set  it  to  cook  on  the  back  of  the 
range.  After  it  has  set  half  an  hour,  draw  it  to  a  hotter  part 
of  range  and  gradually  heat  the  water  to  the  simmering  point. 
Let  simmer  five  or  ten  minutes,  then  drain  fish  carefully.  Then 
separate  the  fish  into  flakes,  discarding  skin  and  bones.  For 
each  cup  of  fish  prepare  one  cup  cream  sauce;  i.  e.,  melt  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  cook  in  it  two  level  tablespoons  flour, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  gradually 
add  one  cup  milk.    Reheat  the  fish  in  the  sauce.    Put  the  fish 

38 


and  sauce  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  in  alternate  layers,  hav- 
ing the  last  layer  of  sauce.  Cover  with  cracker  crumbs  (two- 
thirds  a  cup  to  one-quarter  cup  butter)  mixed  with  melted 
butter,  and  set  into  a  hot  oven  to  brown  the  crumbs. — Mrs.  W. 
T.  Lewis. 

Coal   Promptly   Delivered   When   Promised   at  Holmes'. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

One-half  peck  clams  or  one  quart  from  the  shells.  Boil  them 
in  one  pint  of  water  until  they  open  easily.  Remove  heads, 
then  separate  and  chop  the  hard  portion  very  fine.  Fry  three 
slices  of  fat  pork,  adding  when  thoroughly  fried,  one  large 
onion  cut  in  slices,  being  careful  not  to  burn  the  onion.  Peel 
and  cut  very  thin  one  quart  of  potatoes  (after  being  sliced) 
and  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  until  quite  tender.  Take 
the  water  in  which  the  clams  were  boiled,  put  in  kettle,  add 
potatoes,  clams  which  have  been  prepared,  onion  with  fat,  add- 
ing pepper,  salt  if  necessary.  Have  broth  enough  to  more  than 
cover  the  whole  mixture,  then  let  it  simmer  slowly.  Break 
in  some  crackers.  When  about  ready  to  serve,  add  as  much 
milk  as  you  please,  one  pint  at  least. — M.  G.  Weston. 

Coal   Promptly   Delivered   When    Promised   at   Holmes'. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

One  quart  raw  clams,  one  quart  milk,  one  quart  sliced 
potatoes.  Separate  the  two  parts  of  the  clams,  chopping  the 
rims  and  squeezing  out  the  black  in  the  stomachs.  Fry  four 
or  five  slices  of  pork  and  after  taking  out  the  crisp  slices  of 
pork  from  the  fat,  add  to  the  fat  one  quart  of  hot  water,  the 
stomachs  of  the  clams  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  this 
mixture  until  potatoes  are  nearly  done;  then  add  the  chopped 
rims,  the  quart  of  milk  and  what  clam  water  you  have.  Strain 
the  clam  water  through  a  cloth  and  just  bring  the  whole  to  a 
boil.  Dip  crackers  (in  halves)  in  cold  water,  then  put  into  the 
chowder  before  serving. — Mrs.  L.  H.  Shaw. 

39 


SCALLOP  CHOWDER. 
Wash  one  quart  of  scallops  in  one-half  pint  of  water.  Re- 
move scallops  and  strain  liquor  through  cheese  cloth.  Melt 
one-quarter  cup  butter,  add  one  onion  cut  in  thin  slices ;  stir 
and  cook  until  well  browned ;  add  one  cup  water  and  cook  five 
minutes;  strain  this  into  the  scallop  broth  and  heat  to  boiling 
point.  Add  one  pint  sliced  potatoes  that  have  been  boiled  in 
water  to  cover  five  minutes  and  drained,  and  cook  until  the 
potatoes  are  tender;  add  the  scallops  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Cook  one-quarter  cup  flour  in  one-quarter  cup  butter,  stir  this 
into  one-quart  hot  milk;  add  this  to  above  mixture  when  scal- 
lops are  cooked. — Mrs.  T.  A.  Hopkins. 

Money  Back  if  Not  Satisfied,  and   No  Excuses  at   Holmes'. 

RECIPE  FOR  TWENTY  GALLONS  CLAM 
CHOWDER. 
Four  pounds  fat  pork,  four  quarts  onions,  five  gallons  pota- 
toes cut  in  dice,  five  gallons  water,  five  gallons  milk,  three  gal- 
lons clams,  two  pounds  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  I  use 
cayenne  pepper.  I  fry  my  pork  and  onions  the  day  before. 
Fry  out  the  pork  and  then  fry  the  onions  until  corn  color. 
When  I  make  my  chowder  I  put  on  the  five  gallons  of  water; 
when  it  boils  I  add  potatoes,  pork  and  onions,  also  all  the  clam 
water  that  comes  with  the  clams.  When  potatoes  are  half 
done,  add  the  clam  rims  after  being  put  through  the  meat 
chopper,  and  when  two-thirds  done,  add  the  soft  portion  of 
the  clams.  When  potatoes  are  thoroughly  done,  add  milk  and 
let  it  boil  up  twice.  Stir  it  constantly  after  milk  is  added.  I 
make  mine  in  a  farmer's  boiler.  When  done  and  removed 
from  the  fire,  add  the  butter.  This  is  enough  for  i6o  people, 
allowing  one  pint  for  each  person. — Clara  H.  Bartlett. 

Money  Back  if  Not  Satisfied,  and   No  Excuses  at  Holmes'. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 
Take  small  pieces  of  pork,  let  fry  in  bottom  of  kettle ;  then 
remove  pork  scraps  and  add  two  or  three  small  onions,  letting 
these  cook  until  quite  soft.     Next  add  about  one-half  as  much 

40 


water  as  wanted  when  done,  and  potatoes  which  have  been 
previously  pared  and  sHced;  when  nearly  done,  add  fish  which 
has  been  fixed  as  follows :  Cook  the  fish  in  as  little  water  as 
possible,  letting  the  water  boil  up  once ;  remove  from  stove 
and  take  out  all  bones ;  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  and  add  cream  or  milk  to  suit. — Mrs.  Richard 
A.  Snow. 

CLAM  CAKES. 

One  quart  raw  clams,  prepare  by  squeezing  out  the  black 
part  of  the  clam,  then  chopping  the  rims.  To  the  clams  thus 
prepared,  add  two  cups  of  wetting  (milk  and  clam  water), 
eight  butter  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  egg,  one  large  cup  sifted 
flour,  two  dessertspoons  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  two  full  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Fry  in  spider  with  good  supply  of  fat  in  shape 
of  griddle  cakes. — Mrs.  L.  H.  Shaw. 

Money  Back  If  Not  Satisfied,  and  No  Excuses  at  Holmes'. 

QUAHAUG  FRITTERS. 

Take  twelve  good-sized  quahaugs,  take  from  the  shell  and 
chop  rather  fine.  Add  two  boiled  potatoes  after  mashing  fine ; 
two  eggs,  and  flour  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon.  Fry  in  nice 
fat  and  drain  on  paper  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Julia  Joslyn. 

OYSTER   COCKTAILS. 

One  quart  best  oysters,  one  bottle  horseradish,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  Halford  or  Worcestershire 
sauce,  juice  of  two  lemons,  few  drops  of  Tobasco  sauce.  Will 
serve  six  or  eight  persons. — Mrs.  George  Howard. 

Money  Back  if  Not  Satisfied,  and  No  Excuses  at  Holmes'. 

FRIED  SCALLOPS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  scallops,  let  stand  two  minutes, 
drain  thoroughly;  put  between  two  towels  and  dry.  Season 
fine  cracker  crumbs  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  the  scallops  in 
the  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  eggs  to  which  has  been  added  one 

41 


tablespoonful  of  water,  and  again  in  crumbs.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  frying  basket  with  the  scallops  (do  not  heap  them), 
fry  in  deep  hot  fat  until  brown.  Serve  at  once.  Tartar  sauce 
can  be  served  with  them. — Mrs.  Marcus  Hall. 

Diaries,  Almanacs  and  All   Kinds  of   Reading   Matter  at  Holmes'. 

FRIED    OYSTERS     WITH     CREAM     HORSERADISH 

SAUCE. 
Free  the  oysters  from  all  shells,  wipe  each  one  carefully 
till  it  is  quite  dry,  then  sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
set  away  for  an  hour  or  more.  Take  out,  roll  in  very  fine 
cracker  Tumbs  then  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  again  in  fine 
crumbs  and  drop  into  boiling  fat  to  brown  quickly. 

Horseradish  Sauce. — For  the  horseradish  sauce  take  three 
level  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish  root,  one  tablespoonful 
vinegar,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  cayenne ;  mix 
these  ingredients  together  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  thick 
cream  beaten  stiff. — Mrs.  Addie  Joslyn. 

Diaries,  Almanacs  and  All   Kinds  of  Reading  Matter  at  Holmes'. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

One  pint  oysters ;  roll  the  necessary  quantity  of  cracker 
crumbs,  soak  them  in  milk  until  soft.  Season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  the  soft  crumbs  on  bottom  of  bak- 
ing dish,  a  layer  of  mixture  until  dish  is  filled,  having  crumbs 
last ;  dot  pieces  of  butter  over  top.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  bake  until  brown  in  a  hot  oven. — Clara  H.  Bart- 
lett. 


[THIS  IS  holmes; 

ST.  -STORE-  58MAIN  ST.  OFFICE-  SIT 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


43 


When  You  are  Hungry 
What  Do  You  Eat? 

^  If  you  are  very  hungry,  you  eat  anything  eatable 
you  can  reach.  You  prefer  good  food  well  cooked, 
though,  don't  you? 

When  Your  Stove  Gets  Hungry 
What  Does  It  Eat  ? 

^  It  eats  what  you  put  in  it,  but  it  can't  eat  stone 
and  dirt.  Holmes'  Coals  are  to  your  stove  what 
good,  well  cooked  food  is  to  you,  and  they  will  help 
make  your  own  food  well  cooked. 
^  *'A  pleased  customer  is  the  best  advertisement." 
Holmes'  Coals  please. 

58  Main  St.,  Enterprise  Bldg. 


oooooooooooo   ^"^    O  ^"^    O   """^   o  ^^   o 


o         o         o         o         o  oo         o         o  o         o         o  ^"^  o  ^"^  o  ^^  o  ^^  o 

44 


Meat. 

BOILED  MUTTON— CAPER  SAUCE. 
Use  the  upper  half  of  leg  of  mutton.  Put  over  fire  in  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  it,  with  one  tablespoon  salt  and  a  small  red 
pepper ;  boil  gently  two  hours,  or  until  tender.  Caper  sauce  is 
made  by  thickening  one  pint  boiling  milk  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water  and  strained ;  add  one 
tablespoonful  capers ;  serve  hot  over  the  mutton.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Subscriptions    for    Any    Paper    or    IVIagazine    as    Low    as    the    Lowest,    at 
Hoimes',  58   iVIain   St. 

BEEF  TENDERLOIN,  MILANAISE. 
Place  tenderloin  in  pan  with  slice  of  fat  pork  over  and  under 
it ;  put  into  pan  one  onion  peeled,  one  carrot  and  one  green  pep- 
per with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  all.  Bake  slowly  one 
hour.  Meantime  boil  one-half  package  spaghetti  in  salted 
water  twelve  minutes ;  then  drain  and  let  stand  in  cold  water. 
For  sauce,  brown  together  two  teaspoonfuls  flour  and  butter 
and  gradually  mix  with  one  pint  of  gravy  from  the  meat,  and 
add  the  spaghetti.  Slice  the  tenderloin,  put  sauce  over  it  and 
serve  immediately. 

Subscriptions    for    Any    Paper    or    Magazine    as    Low    as    the    Lowest,    at 
Holmes',  58   IVIain   St. 

BRAISED  FILLET  OF  BEEF. 
Select  a  fresh  beef  tenderloin,  large  or  small  according  to 
party  to  be  served.  Wipe  well  with  dry  towel,  place  in  baking 
pan  with  a  little  hot  water.  Chop  one  onion,  one  tomato,  one 
green  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  the  meat,  pinch  of  white  pep- 
per, one  teaspoon  salt.  Roast  in  medium  oven  forty-five  min- 
utes, keeping  a  little  water  in  pan  to  avoid  meat  becoming  too 
dry.  Make  sauce  as  follows :  Strain  liquor  from  baking  pan, 
add  one  pint  stock  or  water,  take  ofif  grease  with  ladle ;  add 
one  can  champignons   (mushrooms),  thicken  with  one  table- 

45 


spoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  little  cold  water.  Slice  the  fillet 
in  portions  and  turn  sauce  over  same.  Serve  hot  with  parsley 
garniture. 

These  three  recipes  were  contributed  by  Herbert  L.  Aldridge, 
Chef,  Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey. 

Poker  Chips,   Dice  and   Playing  Cards  at  Holmes'. 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

Four  to  six  pounds  from  the  middle  or  face  of  the  rump,  the 
vein  or  the  round.  Wipe  with  a  clean,  wet  cloth.  Sear  all 
over  by  placing  in  a  hot  frying  pan  and  turning  until  all  the 
surface  is  browned.  Put  in  a  kettle  with  one  cup  of  water  and 
place  it  where  it  will  keep  just  below  the  boiling  point.  Do 
not  let  the  water  boil  entirely  away,  but  add  only  enough  to 
keep  the  meat  from  burning.  Have  the  cover  fit  closely  to 
keep  in  the  steam.  Cook  until  very  tender,  but  do  not  let  it 
break.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  The  meat  when  cold  is  delicious, 
cut  in  quarter  inch  slices  and  sauted  in  hot  butter. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Thome. 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 

A  square  of  beef  cut  from  the  round,  brown  it  in  some  of  its 
fat  in  a  frying  pan,  on  all  sides.  Then  add  two  full  cups  of 
hot  water,  cover  closely  and  set  in  the  oven  and  cook  slowly 
until  the  meat  is  almost  ready  to  fall  apart.  There  should  be 
only  enough  water  for  a  gravy  when  the  meat  is  done.  Season 
the  gravy  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  desired  it  may  be  thick- 
ened a  little.  This  makes  tough  meat  tender  and  palatable. 
Ham  can  be  used  the  same  way. — Mrs.  L.  F.  Gtirney. 

Poker  Chips,   Dice  and   Playing  Cards  at  Holmes'. 

MEAT  LOAF. 
Two  pounds  raw  beef  (rump  or  round),  one-half  pound  raw 
pork  (chops),  two  small  onions,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  egg, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  pepper,  one-half  cup  rolled  crackers, 
two  tablespoonfuls  tomato.  Put  meat  and  onion  through  meat 
chopper,  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  together  into  a 
loaf  and  bake  one  hour,  basting  frequently. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Chis- 
holm. 

46 


BEEF  LOAF. 
One  pound  hamburg  steak,  one-half  pound  pork  sausage, 
one  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  two  eggs,  two  cups  milk, 
one  large  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  a  nutmeg.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  bake  in  bread  pan  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
— Mrs.  Clara  M.  Folger. 

MEAT  LOAF. 
Two  pounds  beef  or  veal,  hamburged;  one-quarter  pound 
salt  pork  or  suet,  hamburged ;  two  small  onions  chopped  fine, 
one  cup  crackers  rolled  very  fine;  salt;  two  eggs  beaten  welt; 
one  teaspoonful  turkey  seasoning;  one  cup  milk;  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour, — Mrs.  G.  E.  Boiling,  Mrs.  B.  O.  Gibbs. 
E.  A.  F. 

Poker  Chips,   Dice  and    Piaying   Cards  at   Holmes'. 

VEAL  LOAF. 
Take  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  veal  from  the  leg  and 
chop  it  very  fine ;  add  six  powdered  crackers,  one-half  pound 
of  salt  pork  chopped  fine  and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Season- 
ing with  one  tablespoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  black  pepper, 
one-half  teaspoonful  allspice,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground 
clove,  one-half  small  onion  chopped  fine ;  sage  or  sweet  mar- 
joram may  be  used  instead  of  onion  if  preferred.  Knead  all 
this  together  and  make  into  a  loaf  and  place  on  a  tin  sheet. 
Beat  one  tgg  and  pour  it  over  the  loaf;  put  bits  of  butter  on 
top  and  sift  over  it  one-half  pound  of  cracker  crumbs.  Take 
one-half  teacup  of  hot  water,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  nutmeg,  and  with  this  baste  the  loaf  three  or  four  times  while 
baking.  Bake  two  hours.  When  cold  cut  in  thin  slices  and 
serve  for  either  breakfast  or  tea. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Monk. 

Poker  Chips,   Dice  and    Piaying   Cards  at   Holmes'. 

BRAISED  BEEF. 

Six  thin   slices   fat    pork,    one    onion,    one    and    one-half 

pounds  round  steak  (cut  thick),  salt  and  pepper,  one  heaping 

tablespoonful  flour.     Fry  out  pork,  add  sliced  onion  and  fry 

a  delicate  brown.    Remove  onion.    Cut  steak  into  pieces  about 

47 


one  and  one-half  inches  square  and  fry  a  nice  brown  on  all 
sides ;  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  sprinkle  over  all  the 
flour,  stir  well  and  pour  over  boiling  water  enough  to  cover, 
and  cook  slowly  until  meat  is  tender  (about  three  hours). 
Add  water  if  it  boils  away  too  rapidly. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Sweetland. 

Holmes  Has  Coal  That  Will  Suit  You  for  All  Purposes. 

HAMBURG  STEAK. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  bottom  of  round,  one-quarter 
pound  kidney  suet,  run  through  meat  grinder  (medium  knife). 
Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Make  into  small  cakes  and  cook 
in  hot  spider  with  a  little  pork  fat.  Serve  with  brown  gravy, 
tomato  or  onion  sauce. 

Onion  Sauce. — Boil  until  tender  three  or  four  onions.  Drain 
and  pass  through  sieve ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir 
in  one  dessertspoon  flour  and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  spider 
after  removing  the  cakes  to  a  hot  platter.  Let  sauce  come  to 
a  boil  and  pour  over  cakes. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

PRESSED  VEAL. 
Boil  a  shin  of  veal  in  four  quarts  of  water  until  the  bones 
can  be  taken  out  and  the  water  is  nearly  boiled  away.  Chop 
meat  fine.  Season  with  powdered  mace,  pepper  and  salt;  add 
two  crackers  pounded  and  sifted  and  parsley  cut  small.  Mix 
well  together  with  the  water  that  remains  in  the  kettle,  and  put 
into  a  bowl  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  As  you  fill  the 
bowl  add  slices  of  two  or  three  hard  boiled  eggs ;  cover  thei' 
bowl  with  a  plate ;  set  a  weight  upon  it  and  let  stand  until  next 
day. — Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Monk. 

Holmes  Has  Ccal  That  Will  Suit  You  for  All   Purposes. 

VEAL  OYSTERS. 
Take  a  medium  thick  slice  of  veal  steak  and  cut  into  rounds 
the  size  of  an  oyster.  Season  well  and  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  fine  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  frying  basket  and  immerse  in 
hot  fat.  The  veal  may  be  cooked  a  little  before  preparing  as 
otherwise  the  "oysters"  may  brown  before  the  meat  is 
thoroughly  cooked.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 
— Mrs.  R.  Hogg,  Jr. 

48 


LAMB  TERRAPIN. 
Two  cups  cold  lamb  cut  into  dice,  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon 
Worcestershire  sauce,  one  cup  stock  or  gravy  or  meat  extract 
or  water,  one-quarter  cup  cream,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  sherry  if  liked.  Make  a  sauce  by  blending  but- 
ter, flour  and  mustard,  adding  the  stock,  cream  and  sauce  and 
cooking  five  minutes  after  it  boils.  Put  in  next  the  yolks  of 
eggs  rubbed  through  a  sieve  and  the  meat.  Heat  gently,  add 
whites  of  eggs  cut  small,  season  and  serve  on  toast. — Mrs. 
Heman  Eldridge. 

Holmes  Has  Coal  That  Will  Suit  You  for  All   Purposes. 

SOUTHERN  BAKED  TRIPE. 
Cut  tripe  in  squares  and  spread  over  with  bread  and  onion 
dressing.  Roll  up  and  fasten  with  toothpicks;  dredge  with 
flour  and  spread  with  a  little  soft  butter.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
over  one-half  hour,  basting  frequently  with  butter  and  hot 
water.  Garnish  with  lemon  slices  and  pass  melted  butter  with 
a  dash  of  paprika  added.  Fresh  tripe  should  always  be  used 
as  the  pickled  destroys  the  delicate  flavor. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Garvin. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 
Cut  cold  boiled  tripe  in  pieces  three  inches  square  and  lay 
them  for  one-half  hour  in  one  tablespoon  olive  oil,  two  table- 
spoons vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.    Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  hot  pork  fat  or  butter. — Mrs.  M.  Smith. 

Holmes  Has  Coal  Tliat  Will  Suit  You  for  All   Purposes. 

SHREWSBURY  SAUSAGE. 
Chop  fine  one-quarter  pound  beef,  same  of  veal,  one-half 
pound  lean  pork  and  same  of  bacon.  Season  lightly  with  pep- 
per and  salt  and  a  little  powdered  sage.  Press  closely  in  a 
straight-sided  pan.  Boil  two  cups  of  yellow  split  peas  until 
they  can  be  put  through  a  colander.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  put  the  mixture  in  a 
pudding  dish  buttered.  Slice  meat  mixture  in  half-inch  slices 
and  lay  over  peas.  Bake  in  hot  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Serve  with  tart  apple  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Garvin. 

49 


PORK  CHOPS,  SOUTHERN  STYLE. 

Select  nice  meaty  chops  and  spread  the  following  dressing 
on  them,  add  a  Httle  water  and  bake  one  hour  or  more. 

Dressing. — One  cup  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
one  egg,  poultry  seasoning,  salt  and  pepper.  Veal  steak  or 
cutlets  can  be  used  instead  of  pork  chops  if  desired. — Mrs.  W. 
D.  Lockhart. 

BAKED  BEEF  STEW. 

Two  pounds  leg  beef  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  large  carrot, 
one  onion,  one  cup  peas,  one  teaspoonful  minute  tapioca,  one 
teaspoonful  bread  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoon  vinegar,  three 
cloves,  pinch  of  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper ;  slice  vegetables,  pack 
in  layers,  cover  with  cold  water,  cover  tightly  and  bake  two 
and  one-half  or  three  hours. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Lockhart. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  Money  Back,  at  Holmes' 

BEEFSTEAK  PIE. 
Cut  up  rump  or  flank  steak  into  strips  two  inches  long  and 
about  an  inch  wide.  Stew  them  with  the  bone  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  until  partly  cooked.  Have  one-half 
dozen  cold  potatoes  sliced ;  line  a  baking  dish  with  pie  paste ; 
put  in  a  layer  of  the  meat  with  salt,  pepper,  sliced  onions,  then 
sliced  potatoes  with  bits  of  butter  dotted  over  them,  then  the 
steak  alternated  with  layers  of  potatoes  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Add  gravy  or  broth,  having  first  thickened  it  with  brown  flour. 
Cover  with  a  top  crust,  making  a  slit  in  the  middle.  Brush  a 
little  beaten  egg  over  it  and  bake  until  quite  brown.  Very  nice 
for  tea. — Mrs.  N.  P.  Appleton. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  IVloney  Back,  at  Holmes' 

TO  ROAST  BEEF. 
Sprinkle  bottom  of  dripping  pan  with  flour  and  pepper ;  two 
or  three  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  then  place  meat  on  the  pork; 
sprinkle  flour  and  pepper  on  top  of  the  meat  and  spread  thin 
slices  of  pork.  Put  into  a  hot  oven  to  sear  the  outside.  Then 
add  boiling  water  and  baste  and  bake.  Serve  hot.  The  gravy 
may  need  a  little  thickening. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

5° 


KIDNEY  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 
Cut  in  small  pieces  a  fresh  kidney  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  When 
almost  done  add  to  it  a  sliced  onion,  one-half  cup  tomatoes 
and  a  slice  of  ham.  Let  all  fry  together  and  when  done  add 
teaspoonful  flour,  piece  of  red  pepper  and  teaspoonful  chopped 
garlic  and  parsley.  Thin  with  a  little  water;  season  with  salt 
and  let  boil  a  few  minutes  when  it  is  done. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Kent. 

FRIED  RABBIT. 
Soak  in  salt  and  water  from  two  to  four  hours.    Parboil  un- 
til tender.     Fry  in  butter  until  brown;   add   salt   and   pepper 
while  frying. — Mrs.  S.  E.  Keith. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  Money  Back,  at  Holmes' 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  BIG  SANDY. 
One  pound  pork  chops,  package  of  spaghetti,  three  medium 
sized  onions,  three  peppers,  green  or  ripe  as  you  choose.  Fry 
the  chops  after  cutting  them  in  small  pieces,  then  add  the  onion 
sliced,  fry  until  tender  but  not  brown ;  add  one  can  tomatoes 
and  simmer  until  the  pork  is  well  done.  Chop  the  peppers  (re- 
move the  seeds)  and  add  to  this.  Cook  the  spaghetti  in  salted 
water  until  tender ;  pour  cold  water  over  it  and  drain  well ; 
then  add  to  the  other  things  and  stand  where  it  will  keep  warm, 
but  not  cook  any  more. — P.  W.  H. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  iVioney  Back,  at  Holmes' 

AMERICAN  CHOP  SUEY. 
Have  cooked  one-half  cup  macaroni  and  one-quarter  cup 
rice.  Fry  two  slices  of  fat  pork  and  one  large  onion  sliced; 
then  add  one  pint  of  tomato,  one  pound  of  hamburg  steak,  the 
cooked  rice  and  macaroni ;  mix  well  and  cook  until  done. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Senter. 


MBYpURE     riEAN 
^AGSlEERlESStOAL 


51 


You   Can   Cook   Best  with   Holmes'   Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


52 


OUR  BOW 

I 

OUR  BUSINESS 

I 

OUR  BELIEF 

I 

OUR  FACILITIES 

I 

OUR  Mono 

I 

OUR  DESIRE 

I 

OUR  SIGNS 

I 


is  hereby  repeated  to  the  readers 
of  the  Hospital  Cook  Book.  We 
wish  you  contiaued  prosperity  and 


is  the  sale  (and  prompt  and  careful 
delivery)  of  first-class  clean  coal 
of  all  kinds. 


is  that   people  who  once  give  us 
their  coal  orders  will  never  regret  it. 


are  of  the  best  for  the  purchase, 
storing  and  deliverj'  of  coal  war- 
ranted to  be  as  represented. 


is  "a  pleased  customer  is  the  best 
advertisement,"  and  we  please  our 
customers. 


is  the  extension  of  our  business  to 
just  about  double  its  present 
dimensions. 


are  at  58  Main  St.,  64-70  Ames 
St.,  a  third  is  on  Plain  St.,  and  the 
fourth  on  Perkins  Ave.,  and  they 
all  read  "THIS  IS  HOLMES'." 


53 


Poultry. 

MOCK  TURKEY. 

Have  the  bone  removed  from  a  fresh  shoulder  of  pork. 
Make  a  stufiing  of  two  cups  crumbs  (either  bread  or  cracker), 
one  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  poultry  seasoning,  one  table- 
spoon butter.  Add  hot  water  to  make  right  consistency.  Use 
an  onion  if  liked.  Fill  the  cavity  with  the  stuffing ;  sew  up  as 
you  would  a  turkey.  Sprinkle  flour  over  it  and  three  table- 
spoons celery  salt.  Add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  hot  water ; 
bake  three  or  four  hours  according  to  size. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Mc- 
Allister. 

BRAISED  FOWL. 

Draw,  singe  and  prepare  the  fowl  as  for  roasting.  Saute 
(brown)  the  fowl  on  all  sides  in  a  frying  pan  containing  about 
four  tablespoons  bacon  or  salt  pork  fat;  add  two  cups  water, 
a  small  carrot  and  an  onion  sliced,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley and  a  bay  leaf.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point,  cover  and  set  in 
the  oven.  When  cooked,  strain  the  liquid,  remove  the  fat  and 
thicken  with  flour  cooked  together  (two  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter, one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  cup  of  the  liquid, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  salt  if  needed,  few  grains  pepper)  ;  a 
little  tomato  puree  improves  it.  The  sauce  may  be  poured  over 
the  fowl  or  served  separate.  The  length  of  time  for  cooking 
depends  on  age  of  fowl.  Cook  a  fowl  a  year  old  from  two  to 
three  hours  or  until  tender. — Mrs.  IV.  B.  Baldwin. 

No  Order  Too  Large  or  Too  Small  for  Prompt  and   Careful  Attention   at 

Holmes'. 

JAMBALAYA  OF  CHICKEN. 
Cut  in  pieces  a  young  chicken  and  slices  of  raw  ham.  Fry 
the  whole  in  hot  lard  and  set  aside.  In  the  same  lard  fry  an 
onion  and  a  tomato ;  when  nearly  done  add  one  cupful  rice,  the 
chicken  and  ham  and  let  all  fry  together,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  enough  water  to  cover  the  whole  and  let  boil  slowly  until 
done.  Season  with  strong  pepper,  bay  leaves,  chopped  pars- 
ley and  thyme.  When  cooked  let  dry  a  little  and  serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  J.  S.  Kent. 

54 


CHICKEN  TERRAPIN. 

From  one  well  boiled  chicken  separate  all  the  meat  from  the 
bones  and  skin  and  cut  and  shred  it  in  small  pieces,  mincing 
it  finely.  Season  the  meat  with  mace,  red  pepper  and  salt  and 
cover  it  with  new  milk  or  milk  and  cream  and  let  it  stand  and 
simmer  before  boiling.  When  at  a  boil  stir  in  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut  or  egg  in  which  has  been  rubbed  a  little  flour  and 
just  before  dishing  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed 
smoothly  with  a  little  sherry  wine.  Add  also  a  glass  of  wine ; 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  R.  R.  Shippen. 

No  Order  Too  Large  or  Too  Small  for  Prompt  and   Careful  Attention   at 

Holmes'. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE. 

Boil  the  chicken  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  until  tender, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  off  the  liquor,  and  to  one 
pint  add  three  tablespoonfuls  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  tgg.  When  the  flour  is  cooked, 
pour  in  a  gill  of  cream  or  milk,  and  when  simmering  add  yolk 
of  one  egg  well  beaten.  Pour  over  chicken  on  platter.  Very 
nice. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Hart. 

No  Order  Too  Large  or  Too  Small  for  Prompt  and   Careful  Attention   at 

Holmes'. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  fowl  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  till  very  tender. 
Remove  the  skin,  pick  the  meat  apart  and  mix  dark  and  light 
together.  Remove  the  fat  from  the  liquor  and  season  the  liquor 
highly  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Boil  down  to  one 
cupful  and  then  mix  with  the  chopped  meat.  Butter  a  mould 
and  decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  with  slices  of  hard  boiled 
eggs ;  pack  the  meat  into  the  mould  and  set  away  to  cool  with 
a  weight  on  the  meat.    Turn  out  and  slice. — Mrs.  N.  G.  Hunt. 

No  Order  Too  Large  or  Too  Small  for  Prompt  and  Careful  Attention  at 

Holmes'. 

55 


JELLIED  FOWL  OR  CHICKEN. 

Cook  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bone.  Chop  meat  fine. 
Have  ready  one  tablespoonful  granulated  gelatine  softened  in 
a  little  cold  water.  Dissolve  in  one  pint  of  the  water  the  fowl 
was  boiled  in,  which  must  be  boiling.  Add  one-half  grated 
onion,  pinch  of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  or  season  to 
taste.  Pour  over  the  chopped  chicken  and  put  in  bread  pan 
which  has  been  lined  with  oiled  paper.  Set  aside  to  become 
cold.    Slice  thinly  and  serve. — Mrs.  B.  J.  Fuller. 


<^^  '^^'^rP'  •<i?'  •<2?="^S^'/S^  •.£7"<i5''^5='  '.27  •<:?7.,:-7.,:2:7  •.i?"^2^"^?^  '^:Z'£^-^  ^^ 


m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
h 
h 


m 


m 
m 
m 


Put  It  On  the  Slate. 
What? 

The  blame  for  clinkers,  clogged  up  stoves, 
ashes  to  sift,  etc. 

Have  you  seen  those  piles  [of  slate  in 
Holmes'  coal  yard  ? 

There  is  slate  in  all  coal. 

The  man  who  sells  the  purest  coal  will 
have  the  most  slate  on  hand.  We 
carefully  pick  out  the  slate  by  hand 
before  we  weigh  the  coal.  It  costs 
us  money,  but  it  saves  you  more  if 
you  buy  at  58  Main  Street. 

THIS  IS  HOLMES'  Corp. 


w 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


57 


Ask  Your 
Grocer  for  a 
BAG  OF  COAL 
with  the  Hod 
on  it. 


— ^  HE  highest  priced  coal  (ex- 
1  cept  Franklin)  that  is  sold 
in  Brockton  is  HOLMES' 
SPECIAL  SOFT  SHAMO- 
KIN  STOVE,  and  it  is  as 
high  in  quality  as  it  is  in 
price.  It  is  thoroughly  re- 
liable in  every  way,  and  warranted 
superior  to  anything  in  the  market 
(except  Franklin),  and  that  is  the 
coal  we  are  putting  up  in  paper  bags 
for  grocers  to  sell. 

^Your  grocer  will  refund  the  money  for  any 
bag  of  our  coal  not  perfectly  satisfactory  and  as 
represented,  and  you  can  keep  the  coal. 

A  Trial  Will  Convince  You. 


58 


Vegetables. 

SPAGHETTI. 
Break  spaghetti  into  boiling  salted  water,  cook  thirty  min- 
utes, drain  in  colander.  Into  a  well  buttered  baking  dish,  place 
a  layer  of  spaghetti,  layer  of  minced  onion,  layer  of  tomatoes, 
over  these  grated  cheese,  pieces  of  butter,  dash  paprika.  Re- 
peat layers  until  dish  is  full ;  over  all  scatter  buttered  cracker 
crumbs,  more  grated  cheese;  bake  in  oven  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Tinkham. 

p.  O.   station  4,  58   Main   St.,    Does   More   Post  Office   Business  Tlian   Any 
Town  in  the  State. 

SPAGHETTI    OR    MACARONI    WITH    TOMATO 
SAUCE. 

One-half  pound  spaghetti,  one  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup. 
Take  one-half  pound  spaghetti,  put  into  boiling  salted  water 
and  cook  twenty  minutes ;  put  into  colander  and  pour  cold 
water  over  it  (drain).  Take  one  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup 
and  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  spaghetti  and  boil  three  minutes. 
Put  into  serving  dish  and  grate  over  it  a  little  cheese,  or  serve 
without  the  cheese  if  one  does  not  care  for  it. — Mrs.  F.  A. 
Sweetland. 

p.  O.  Station  4,  58  Main  St.,   Does   More  Post  Office   Business  Than  Any 
Town  In  the  State. 

GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  six  ears  of  new  and  tender  com,  leaving 
as  much  of  the  hull  on  as  possible.  Chop  fine  half  of  green 
pepper,  a  little  grated  onion  and  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  up 
fine ;  add  these  to  the  com.  When  the  whole  has  come  to  the 
boiling  point,  let  simmer  about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  reduced 
somewhat.  Add  meanwhile  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
sugar  and  just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  two  teaspoonfuls 
butter. — Mrs.  Florence  Kennedy. 

59 


STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Cut  tops  of  six  green  peppers  nearly  off  and  remove  seeds. 
Chop  fine  three  medium  sized  tomatoes,  or  use  one-half  cup 
tomato  pulp  from  can.  Add  one-half  cup  finely  chopped  ham 
and  chicken,  one-half  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  two  teaspoonfuls 
finely  chopped  onion,  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Heat  mixture  in  one  tablespoon- 
ful  olive  oil  and  fill  peppers.  Place  peppers  closely  together  in 
baking  pan,  pour  in  one  cup  boiHng  water  and  bake  twenty 
minutes.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

Have  You  Tried  Shamokin  Coal  in  "The  Bag  With  the  Hod  On,"  at  Your 

Grocer's? 

CARROTS. 

Scrape  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Peel 
and  cut  in  cubes.  For  one  pint,  put  one  tablespoon  butter  in 
pan  with  one-half  teaspoon  sugar  and  salt,  one  teaspoon  lemon 
juice  and  pepper.  Toss  the  carrot  in  this  until  hot  and  the  but- 
ter absorbed. — Mrs.  E.  W.  McAllister 

EASY   ESCALLOPED   TOMATO. 

One  can  tomato,  one  package  Uneeda  biscuit,  salt,  pepper 
and  butter.  Roll  crackers  fine,  stir  into  tomato.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  dot  with  lumps  of  butter.  Bake  one-half 
hour  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  E.  F.  O'Neil. 

Have  You  Tried  Shamokin  Coal   in  "The  Bag  With  the  Hod  On,"  at  Your 

Grocer's? 

BUTTERED  BEETS. 

Boil  three  or  four  medium  sized  beets.  When  boiled  drop 
into  cold  water  and  slip  off  the  skins.  Put  in  a  wooden  tray  and 
chop  them  quite  coarse.  Return  to  a  hot  saucepan,  add  level 
teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  one-quarter  cup  butter. 
Stir  the  beets  over  and  over  in  the  butter  until  it  is  melted. 
Serve  in  a  hot  dish. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Senter. 

60 


CREAMED  POTATOES. 

For  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces,  use 
one-half  cup  milk,  a  few  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  until  the  milk  is  absorbed  and 
thickened  by  the  bread  and  potatoes.  When  ready  to  serve, 
add  some  finely  chopped  parsley. — A.  M.  H. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES. 

To  two  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  add  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  yolks  of  three  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Shape,  using  pastry  bag  and  tube,  in  forms  of  pyramids,  leaves, 
roses,  etc.  Brush  over  with  beaten  egg  diluted  with  one  tea- 
spoon water  and  brown  in  hot  oven. — Hannah  A.  Hale. 

Have  You  Tried  Shamokin  Coal  in  "The  Bag  With  the  Hod  On,"  at  Your 

Grocer's? 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  slice  enough  potatoes  to  make  three  pints.  Cover 
with  water  that  is  boiling  and  salted,  bring  quickly  to  the  boil- 
ing point.  After  boiling  about  three  minutes,  drain,  rinse  in 
cold  water  and  drain  again.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  for  serving 
(that  has  been  well  buttered)  a  layer  of  potatoes  and  sprinkle 
with  salt,  add  bits  of  butter  here  and  there,  also  a  few  shavings 
of  onion  and  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley.  Continue  the  lay- 
ers until  the  dish  is  loosely  filled ;  then  pour  in  milk  to  come 
to  the  top  of  the  dish.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  W.  B. 
Baldmin. 

Have  You  Tried  ShamoI<in  Coal   in  "The  Bag  With  the  Hod  On,"  at  Your 

Grocer's? 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT. 

Remove  the  interior  of  a  large  egg  plant  with  a  silver  knife, 
leaving  a  shell  about  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Mix  the  pieces 
of  egg  plant  with  an  onion  cut  up  fine,  cover  with  water  and 
cook  until  tender ;  mix  with  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  the  shell  and  bake  in  quite  hot  oven.  Do  not  cook  until 
the  shell  shrivels. — Mrs.  C.  C.  E. 

6i 


BERMUDA  ONIONS  STUFFED. 

Remove  the  center  from  the  onions  after  peeling  them,  leav- 
ing only  a  sufficiently  thick  shell  to  hold  the  dressing.  Fill  the 
centers  vi^ith  minced  veal  or  chicken  or  combination  of  meats 
at  hand;  season  the  meat  highly  with  salt,  pepper  and  other 
condiments  if  liked.  Cover  tops  with  bread  crumbs  and  put 
a  generous  piece  of  butter  on  each.  Place  in  a  buttered  baking 
pan  and  turn  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake  until  onion  is 
tender. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Shamokin,    Best    Cook    Stove    Coal    In    Brockton    at 
Any  Price.     58  Main  St. 

PEAS  AND  CARROTS. 

Equal  quantities  of  green  peas  and  carrots.  The  carrots  cut 
in  small  cubes.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Have  quite  a  little  water  left  in  them  when  done  and  thicken 
with  flour  to  a  thin  sauce. — A.  M.  H. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Cook  one-half  cup  rice  in  two  cups  brown  stock  until  tender ; 
add  one-quarter  cup  melted  butter,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice, 
one  tablespoon  tomato  catsup  and  salt  and  pepper.  Take  seeds 
from  peppers,  fill  with  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs.     Bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. — Maria  W.  Howard. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Shamokin,    Best    Cook   Stove    Coal    in    Brockton    at 
Any  Price.     58  Main  St. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Select  sweet  peppers  of  equal  size,  cut  off  the  stem  end  and 
with  a  teaspoon  handle  remove  the  seeds.  Put  the  peppers  into 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Make  a  stuffing  with 
softened  bread  crumbs,  minced  meat  of  any  kind,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Put  them  in  a 
baking  pan  with  stock  about  one  inch  deep  in  the  pan ;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  half  an  hour,  remove  to  platter  and  pour  a 
little  stock  over. — Alice  Hamblett. 

62 


SWEET  POTATO  WITH  ORANGE. 

Parboil  potatoes,  peel  and  cut  in  cubes  until  you  have  about 
three  pints.  Put  layer  in  buttered  baking  dish,  add  to  each 
layer  three  heaping  teaspoons  sugar,  nutmeg,  grated  orange 
rind  (yellow  only)  and  lumps  of  butter.  Add  another  layer 
of  potato,  season;  continue  until  dish  is  filled.  Add  juice  of 
four  oranges.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  (Note:  Pour  juice  in  at  one  side,  using  small  pitcher, 
so  as  not  to  disturb  top  layer). — Mrs.  E.  F.  O'Neil. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Shamokin,    Best    Cook    Stove    Coal    In    Brockton    at 
Any  Price.     58  Main  St. 

A  NICE  WAY  TO  PREPARE  CABBAGE. 

Take  one  or  two  pounds  of  cabbage,  partly  cover  with  water 
and  cook  until  tender,  but  not  too  soft.  Pour  off  water  and 
add  a  generous  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
about  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar.  Cut  up  the  cabbage  into 
quite  small  pieces.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Szveetland. 

BROILED  TOMATOES. 

Wipe  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise ;  cut  off  a  thin  slice  from 
rounding  part  of  each  half;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip 
in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again ;  put  on  a 
buttered  broiler  and  broil  eight  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Hamb- 
lett. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Shamokin,    Best   Cook   Stove    Coal    in    Brockton    at 
Any  Price.     58  Main  St. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

Put  two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes  in  a  spider,  add  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  one  saltspoonful  pepper.  Stir 
until  very  hot.  Take  from  fire  and  stir  in  carefully  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  into  a  baking  dish  and  brown 
in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Thome. 

63 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  WITH  BUTTER. 
Cook  the  sprouts  in  salted  water  until  they  are  tender,  then 
drain  well,  drying  them  with  a  clean  cloth  somewhat.  Brown 
in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  into  this  stir  the 
sprouts,  letting  them  heat  and  brown  a  little  if  they  will.  Put 
them  in  a  dish,  when  hot  sprinkle  lightly  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  send  to  table. — Mrs.  J.  Q.  Ford. 

PARISIAN  POTATOES. 
Small  round  balls  cut  from  raw  potatoes  boiled  until  done 
and  browned  in  butter  in  frying  pan. — H.  L.  Aldridge. 


W^\W^ 


mm 


I-  ^Mm 
?  mm 

f      i:r/]>  !7/i\ 


mm 
mm 
mm 

■lfA"'l<A\l 


You  want  of  coal  is  to 
burn,  and  to  burn  up 
clean.  You  don't  want 
a  lot  of  ashes  and  cinders 
to  bother  over;  and  the 
coal  that  goes  to  ashes 
and  cinders  does  not  give  WMM.. 
as  much  heat  as  the  coal 
that  burns  up  clean. 
^  Our  Special  Soft 
Shamokin  is  pure  coal 
— no  slate,  no  cinders, 
and  but  a  small  propor- 
tion goes  to  ashes.  It 
burns  up  clean.  Ask 
anybody  but  HOLMES 
about  it. 


■^^^\''^^\ 

mm\ 

•/^A\'(/i'AI' 


64 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


65 


The  Western  Union  Tele- 
graph operator  who  told  the 
following  story  should  take  a 
position  with  one  of  the  New 
York  papers  and  talk  up  its 
circulation : 

"I  was  out  hunting  the  other 
day  and  I  saw  a  fine  woodpecker 
on  a  tree,  and  just  as  I  raised 
my  gun  to  shoot,  it  rapped  on 
the  tree,  "stop."  I  lowered 
my  gun  in  astonishment,  and 
the  bird  began  to  rap  again ; 
and,  with  the  precision  of  an 
old  operator,  it  told  me  not  to 
spend  my  time  tramping 
through  the  woods  in  search  of 
pleasure,  but  to  go  home  and 
order  some  of  Holmes'  Special 
Soft  Shamokin  Coal  for  the 
cook  stove  and  make  my  wife 
happy.  I  took  the  advice ;  it 
paid  both  me  and  the  bird." 

Puck  Amended. 


66 


Salads. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Two  cups  chicken  meat  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  cups  celery 
also  cut  in  small  pieces ;  marinate  with  French  dressing.  Chill. 
Arrange  in  salad  dish  and  cover  with  mayonnaise.  Decorate 
with  hard-cooked  eggs  cut  in  slices  (capers  if  you  like). — Mrs. 
W.  H.  Wade. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Mix  two  cups  lobster  meat  with  four  hard-cooked  eggs 
chopped  fine.  Marinate  (or  sprinkle)  with  French  dressing; 
drain  and  add  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce,  gar- 
nish with  chopped  olives  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
chives. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wade. 

Our  Coal   Keeps  Cooks  Good-Natured.     This  Is  Holmes'. 

MANHATTAN  SALAD. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  cold  chicken  cut  fine  (not  chopped) 
celery,  apples,  and  nuts ;  mix  and  add  mayonnaise  dressing ;  to 
this  if  liked  can  be  added  chopped  red  peppers,  olives  or 
capers.  The  pimentoes  that  come  in  tins  are  best. — Mrs.  Alice 
M.  Howard. 

PEAR  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  e^g  slightly,  add  one-half  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice  and  one-half  tablespoon  water.  Drain  carefully 
canned  pears.  Take  each  one  and  dip  into  the  white  of  &gg, 
then  roll  in  English  walnut  meats  chopped  fine.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Mary  L.  Wade. 

Our  Coal   Keeps  Cooks  Good-Natured.     This  Is  Holmes'. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 
Cut  two  bananas  into  slices  crosswise,  four  oranges  cut  into 
small  pieces,  one  small  pineapple  picked  into  small  piecees 
with  a  fork,  one-half  cup  nut  meats.  Marinate  with  three 
tablespoons  olive  oil,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  of 
paprika  and  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Serve  with  cream 
dressing. 

67 


Cream  Dressing. — Whip  one-half  cup  heavy  cream,  add  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  salt  and  one-half  tablespoon  sugar;  add  two 
tablespoons  lemon  juice  very  slowly. — Mrs.  Mary  L.  Wade. 

People's  Wood  Yard  Gives  Work  to  the  Poor  and  Wood  to  Widows. 
Order  at  58   Main   St. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

One-half  pound  blanched  almonds  chopped  very  fine,  four 
oranges  pared  and  sliced,  one  can  pineapple  chopped  fine,  three 
bananas  or  peaches,  pears,  French  cherries,  strawberries  or 
other  fruit,  in  Hke  proportions;  alternate  the  layers  of  fruit 
with  powdered  sugar  and  reserve  the  almonds  for  the  top 
layer ;  then  add  the  following  dressing  and  chill. 

Dressing. — One-half  cup  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoons 
sherry  and  two  tablespoons  of  liquor,  preferably,  maraschino. 
Cranberries  can  be  used  instead  of  strawberries  if  stewed  until 
quite  soft  with  a  good  deal  of  sugar;  grated  cocoanut  can  be 
used  instead  of  almonds. — Mrs.  Eva  Gibbs. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  the  bananas  lengthwise ;  roll  in  finely  chopped 
peanuts ;  lay  on  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  salad  dressing  over 
each  leaf. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Hallett. 

People's  Wood  Yard   Gives  Work  to  the   Poor  and  Wood  to  Widows. 
Order  at  58   Main   St. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

Pare  and  eye  a  small  pineapple ;  cut  it  in  slices  almost  an 
inch  thick,  then  into  dice.  Wash  and  cut  fine  an  equal  amount 
of  well  blanched  celery.  To  one  cup  of  salad  dressing  add  one- 
half  cup  of  stiffly  whipped  cream  and  mix  lightly  together. 
Stir  a  little  more  than  half  of  this  with  the  mixed  pineapple 
and  celery.  Heap  on  a  dish,  spread  the  remainder  of  the  dress- 
ing over  the  top.  Garnish  with  salted  pecans  and  blanched 
celery  tips. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Keith. 

68 


ENGLISH  WALNUT  SALAD. 

Place  choice  English  walnut  meats  in  a  salad  dish  on  a  bed 
of  minced  oranges,  sprinkle  lightly  with  pure  olive  oil  and  set 
aside  for  several  hours.  Wash  and  pick  over  crisp  watercress, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the  fruit  and  nut  mixture 
and  serve  as  cold  as  possible. — Mrs.  B.  O.  Gibbs. 

People's  Wood  Yard  Gives  Work  to  the   Poor  and  Wood  to  Widows. 
Order  at  58  Main   St. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Make  ball  of  chopped  walnuts  and  cream  cheese;  place  on 
slice  of  "Taka"  pineapple ;  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  French 
dressing. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Tinkhant. 

BANANA  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

To  one-half  cup  water  add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  boil  five 
or  six  minutes;  to  this  add  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon  and 
boil  two  or  three  minutes;  choose  small,  ripe  bananas;  peel 
them,  remove  the  coarse  threads  or  better  still,  scrape  them 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Roll  the  bananas  in  the  cold  syrup  and 
then  in  chopped  nuts,  covering  them  completely  with  the  syrup 
and  nuts.  Use  either  English  walnuts  or  pecans.  Serve  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Put  a  little  dressing  on  each  and 
sprinkle  with  small  pieces  of  candied  cherries.  Use  (Mrs. 
Mary  L.  Wade's)   Cream  Dressing. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

People's  Wood  Yard   Gives  Work  to  the   Poor  and  Wood  to  Widows. 
Order  at  58   Main   St. 

GRAPE  SALAD. 

Cut  large  w^hite  grapes  in  halves  and  remove  the  seeds.  To 
each  pint  of  this  allow  a  pint  of  the  pulp  of  shaddocks  (grape 
fruit)  ;  cut  into  halves,  and  with  a  spoon  take  out  the  pulp  in 
good  sized  pieces ;  remove  the  seeds.  Mix  this  with  green 
mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  game.  This  is  also  ex- 
ceedingly nice  with  broiled  chicken. — /.  M.  Appleton. 

69 


FRUIT  SALAD. 

Two  oranges  cut  fine,  one  banana  cut  fine,  one  pound  white 
grapes  (seeded),  one  cup  nuts,  three  sticks  celery  cut  fine, 
three  apples.  Serve  with  boiled  dressing.  Three  or  four 
cherries  on  the  dressing  makes  it  very  attractive. — Mrs.  IV.  E. 
Bryant. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Wash  and  drain  shrimps  and  mix  with  half  their  bulk  of 
cut  celery,  also  olives  or  capers  as  desired.  Use  any  good 
dressing  and  serve  in  border  of  tomato  jelly. — Mrs.  R.  W. 
Dow. 

All  the  New  Novels,  2  Cents  a   Day,  at  Holmes'   Library,  at  58  Main   St. 

MAYONNAISE  OF  CELERY  AND  SHRIMPS. 

Boil  two  dozens  of  nice  shrimps ;  peel  when  cold  and  set 
aside.  Take  the  yolks  of  three  boiled  eggs,  mash  them  well 
with  a  spoonful  each  butter,  oil,  vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Add  the  chopped  whites,  a  bunch  of  celery  cut  in 
strips  and  a  spoonful  of  sliced  pickles.  Pour  the  whole  on 
the  shrimps  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve. — Mrs. 
John  S.  Kent. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD. 

Cook  one-half  can  tomatoes,  two  cloves,  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  paprika ;  cook  fifteen  min- 
utes, strain;  add  four  teaspoons  of  dissolved  gelatine;  pour 
into  individual  moulds  and  chill.  When  cold  remove  from 
moulds,  garnish  with  lettuce  and  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  J.  T. 
Bullivant. 

All   the  New  Novels,  2  Cents  a  Day,  at  Holmes'   Library,  at  58   IVIain   St. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 
Peel  and  chill  six  firm  tomatoes  and  cut  in  halves ;  remove 
the  seeds.  To  one  cup  of  whipped  cream  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  each  of  lemon  juice  and  prepared  horseradish ;  also  sea- 
soning of  salt,  paprika,  and  mustard.  Place  tomatoes  on  let- 
tuce leaves  and  heap  dressing  on  each  slightly. — Mrs.  E.  H. 
Keith. 

70 


TOMATO  SALAD  WITH  CREAM. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  in  rather  thick  slices  into  the  salad  bowl. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  set  away  to  chill. 
Just  before  serving  put  over  them  some  whipped  cream  with 
chopped  olives  stirred  through  it  in  place  of  mayonnaise ; 
serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  The  change  from  mayonnaise 
to  cream  is  a  pleasant  one. — Mrs.  Veronica  Eldredge. 

All   the   New   Novels,  2  Cents   a   Day,   at   Holmes'    Library,   at  58   Main    St. 

HUNGARIAN  POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  small  potatoes,  slice  thin;  to  every  pint  of  potatoes 
mince  one  small  onion,  one  pickled  beet,  one  fresh  cucumber 
sliced,  four  sardines,  one  large  spoonful  minced  boiled  ham, 
one  Dutch  herring.  Mix  all  together  and  serve  with  a  good 
dressing. — Mrs.  H.  F.  Gibbs. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Chop  very  fine  one-half  a  small,  young  and  mild  onion; 
this  should  be  as  fine  as  if  it  had  been  grated.  Cut  six  cold 
boiled  potatoes  into  small  cubes  of  the  same  size  (less  than 
one-half  inch  in  diameter).  Mix  the  potato  and  onion  with 
five  or  six  tablespoonfuls  of  oil.  Mix  very  thoroughly,  turning 
the  potato  over  and  over,  and  adding  more  oil,  if  needed  to 
make  each  piece  of  potato  glisten  with  oil.  Then  add  three 
or  four  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  at  a  time,  mixing 
in  each  before  the  next  is  added.  Put  mixture  into  a  salad 
bowl,  shaping  it  into  a  firm  mound.  Then  cover  or  mask  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  (I  use  Durkee's  salad  dressings  in  pref- 
erence to  my  own).  With  capers,  sliced  olives  or  chopped 
lettuce  divide  the  mound  into  six  sections.  Fill  in  these  with 
cooked  sifted  yolks  of  eggs,  chopped  whites  of  eggs  and 
chopped  beets.  Set  a  tuft  of  lettuce  hearts  in  the  top.  One- 
half  a  green  pepper  pod  chopped  very  fine  can  be  mixed  with 
the  onion. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

All   the   New   Novels,  2  Cents   a   Day,   at   Holmes'    Library,   at  58   Main    St. 

71 


POTATO  SALAD. 

Chop  four  cold  boiled  potatoes,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two 

or  three  slices  of  beets,  one-half  raw  onion.  Add  dressing, — 
Mrs.,].  A.M. 

TOMATO  JELLY  AND  NUT  SALAD. 
Soak  one-half  box  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  one  can  tomatoes,  season  highly, 
boil  and  strain,  adding  enough  hot  water  if  necessary,  to  make 
three  cupfuls.  In  this,  while  boiling,  dissolve  the  gelatine. 
Turn  out  into  two  small  moulds  to  give  a  cuplike  form.  When 
cold  place  on  lettuce  leaves,  fill  with  sliced  celery  and  broken 
pecans  or  walnut  meats  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs. 
H.  A.  Hamhlett. 

You  Can  Cook  Best  With  Holmes'  Coal. 

CHEESE  SALAD. 
Rub  one-fourth  pound  Roquefort  cheese  to  a  paste,  add 
olive  oil  until  the  mixture  has  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Thin  with  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar.     Serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs. 
H.  A.  Hamhlett. 

CHICKEN  AND  NUT  SALAD. 
Cut  into  dice  enough  white  meat  of  chicken  to  make  two 
cupfuls;  add  two-thirds  cup  broken  English  walnut  meats, 
moisten  with  French  dressing;  let  stand  one  or  more  hours; 
then  drain,  add  one  and  one-third  cup  finely  cut  celery,  mix 
with  mayonnaise  dressing;  serve  on  bed  of  lettuce  leaves 
and  garnish  with  halves  of  nut  meats. — Lizzie  D.  Gibbs, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

You  Can  Cook  Best  With  Holmes'  Coal. 

BEET  SALAD. 
Boil  four  medium  sized  beets.  When  cold  chop  fine,  add 
half  as  much  chopped  cabbage  as  you  have  beets  and  horse- 
radish to  make  it  taste  quite  hot.  Pour  a  salad  dressing  over 
the  mixture  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  No  rule  can  be  given 
for  the  amount  of  horseradish  as  it  is  much  stronger  some- 
times than  others. — Mrs.  Amanda  T.  Perkins. 

72 


SWISS  SALAD. 
Mix  one  cup  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  in  cubes,  one  cucum- 
ber pared  and  cut  in  cubes,  one  cup  chopped  English  walnut 
meats  and  one  cup  French  peas.  Marinate  with  French  dress- 
ing, arrange  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs.  H.  T.  Rhoades. 

SWEETBREAD  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 
Mix  equal  parts  of  parboiled  sweetbeads  cut  in  one-half 
inch  cubes  and  celery  finely  cut.     Moisten  with  cream  dress- 
ing and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  H.  T.  Rhoades. 

You  Can  Cook  Best  With  Holmes'  Coal. 

HAM  SALAD. 

One  cup  chopped  ham,  two-thirds  cup  chopped  potatoes, 
two  large  stalks  celery  cut  very  fine,  two  small  onions  cut 
very  fine.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  any  nice  dressing. — Maude 
Sisson,  Fall  River,  Mass. 

HAM  SALAD. 

Dice  one  pint  cold  boiled  ham;  same  quantity  of  firm  white 
cabbage  shaved ;  chop  fine  two  small  cucumber  pickles  and 
two  pickled  beets  or  onions.  On  salad  platter  arrange  a  bed 
of  cabbage,  put  ham  in  center  and  sprinkle  with  cucumber 
and  onions ;  pour  over  a  good  dressing,  strong  of  mustard. — 
Mrs.  E.  H.  Keith. 

SPINACH  SALAD. 

Cook  one-half  peck  spinach,  drain  well  and  chop  fine,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  vinegar.  Chill  and  turn  out 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce.  Cover  with  a  nice  dressing. — Mrs.  Hozv- 
ard  M.  Dow. 

You  Can  Cook  Best  With  Holmes'  Coal. 

COMBINATION  SALAD. 
Mix  with  a  scant  cup  each  of  cut  celery,  cucumber,  tomato, 
apple,  a  few  spoonfuls  each  of  green  peppers  without  seeds 
and  horseradish  and  young  onions.     Serve  on  lettuce  with  a 
good  dressing. — Mrs.  S.  Elliott  Keith. 

73 


RUSSIAN  SALAD. 
Four  good  sized  cold  potatoes  cut  small,  two  tablespoonfuls 
string  beans  or  more,  two  tablespoonfuls  peas,  celery  if  in 
season,  one-half  cucumber,  one  small  onion  cut  fine,  two  me- 
dium sized  tomatoes  sliced  thin.  Mix  well  with  dressing 
spread  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  beets.  Any  kind 
of  vegetable  can  be  used  as  you  may  happen  to  have. — Mrs. 
B.  O.  Gibbs. 

Only  One   Price  for  Any  One  Thing   at   Holmes',   58   Main   St.     Your   Baby 
Can   Buy  as  Cheap  as  You   Can. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD. 
Take  crisp  lettuce  leaves  (four  are  plenty),  arrange  them 
in  roses,  put  one  large  spoonful  of  cold  string  beans  in  each 
rose.  Cover  with  a  cream  salad  dressing  and  dot  all  over 
with  little  squares  of  boiled  beets.  Set  on  ice  until  ready  to 
serve. — Emma  Nolan. 

BREAKFAST  SALAD. 
Scald  two  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  them,  put  them  in  cold  water 
or  fine  ice  to  become  cold;  drain,  and  either  slice  or  divide 
into  sections ;  peel  and  slice  very  thin  one  cucumber ;  line  a 
salad  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  add  the  tomatoes  and  cu- 
cumber and  one  teaspoonful  finely  chopped  parsley  with  a  few 
blades  chives ;  if  possible  add  a  few  green  leaves  of  tarragon ; 
pour  over  all  a  plain  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Henry  F.  Gibbs, 
Chartley,  Mass. 

Only  One  Price  for  Any  One  Thing  at  Holmes',  58   Main  St.     Your   Baby 
Can   Buy  as  Cheap  as  You  Can. 

HERRING  SALAD. 
Soak  two  salt  herrings  over  night ;  wash,  remove  bones  and 
chop;  one  cup  cold  meat,  two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  three 
medium  sized  apples,  two  beets,  two  small  onions.  Chop  not 
too  fine,  first  separately,  then  together.  Mix,  add  pepper,  vin- 
egar and  cream  to  taste ;  place  in  salad  dish  and  ornament  the 
top  with  alternate  strips  of  chopped  beets,  chopped  yolks  of 
eggs,  chopped  whites  of  eggs,  then  beets  again,  etc. — Signi 
Akra. 

74 


INTERSTATE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Twelve  portions.  Three  Florida  navel  oranges,  six  Dela- 
ware peaches,  one-half  box  Massachusetts  strawberries,  one- 
half  small  California  pineapple,  one-half  pint  Maine  corn. 
To  prepare  fruit ;  peel  oranges  and  slice  very  thin  crosswise ; 
peel  and  cut  in  quarters  the  peaches;  hull  and  wash  straw- 
berries ;  cut  off  the  outside  of  pineapple  and  cut  in  small  cubes 
lengthwise.  Whip  the  cream  with  a  little  milk  added ;  when 
stiff  add  one  cup  powdered  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  va- 
nilla extract.  Arrange  fruit  in  glass  salad  bowl  artistically 
and  turn  over  same  the  following  sauce ;  mix  thoroughly  to- 
gether one  tablespoon  cornstarch  and  one  cup  granulated 
sugar ;  turn  over  same  one-half  pint  boiling  water,  and  stirring 
one  way,  cook  five  minutes ;  flavor  with  wine  or  extract ;  when 
cool  turn  over  salad.  Garnish  top  with  whipped  cream.  Set 
on  table  with  glass  service.  This  salad  if  carefully  made  is 
very  tasty  and  pretty. 

Only  One  Price  for  Any  One  Thing  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St.     Your  Baby 
Can   Buy  as  Ciieap  as  You   Can. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

One-half  pound  English  walnuts,  four  large  sound  apples, 
one  small  bunch  white  celery,  one  head  lettuce,  two  table- 
spoons mayonnaise.  Wash  celery  and  lettuce  thoroughly; 
peel  and  cut  apples  into  one-fourth  inch  dice ;  cut  celery  into 
thin  slices  crosswise;  place  in  bowl  and  mix  well  with  the 
mayonnaise.  Place  this  portion  of  salad  upon  the  leaves  of 
the  heart  of  the  lettuce  in  salad  bowl  and  sprinkle  the  walnuts 
(chopped  fine)  over  the  top.  Serve  very  cold  as  soon  as 
made  with  toasted  butter  thins.  This  salad  turns  a  reddish 
color  if  let  stand  over  half  a  day  on  account  of  the  apples.  All 
salads  are  more  satisfactory  if  made  shortly  before  wanted  for 
table. 

Only  One  Price  for  Any  One  Thing  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St.     Your   Baby 
Can   Buy  as  Cheap  as  You  Can. 

75 


"MARION"  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Will  serve  twelve  persons.  Four  sound  bananas,  one-half 
pound  English  walnuts,  one-half  pint  orange  mayonnaise,  one 
head  lettuce.  Make  orange  mayonnaise  as  follows:  yolks  of 
two  fresh  eggs,  dust  of  dry  mustard,  one-fourth  saltspoon 
fine  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar;  stir  well  together  with  wooden 
spoon ;  add  one-half  pint  olive  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  as 
fast  as  it  emulsifies  (becomes  thick)  ;  add  few  drops  of  juice 
from  one  sour  orange ;  continue  until  you  have  used  the  oil 
and  juice  of  the  orange ;  if  mayonnaise  is  too  heavy  drop  in 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  white  vinegar.  Always  stir 
same  way  in  making  mayonnaise. 

Chop  walnuts  very  fine;  peel  and  cut  bananas  into  three 
equal  portions  each ;  roll  lightly  in  mayonnaise,  then  in  the 
chopped  walnuts.  Serve  on  hearts  of  lettuce  on  glass  plates. 
Garnish  with  lovers'  knots  made  from  long  narrow  strips  of 
the  orange  peel. 

Fountain    Pen    Headquarters.      Every    Pen    Warranted    as    Represented    at 
58   Main   St.     This   Is   Holmes'. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD— AMERICAN  GARDEN 
Will  serve  twelve  people.  One  head  fresh  lettuce,  six  to- 
matoes, three  cucumbers,  small  bunch  watercress,  one-half 
pint  French  peas,  one-half  pint  Marinate  (French  dressing). 
Place  enough  lettuce  leaves  to  cover  sides  and  bottom  of  salad 
dish ;  alternately  place  slices  of  tomatoes  and  cucumbers 
around  the  sides,  each  slice  of  cucumber  half  lapping  the  to- 
mato, etc. ;  cut  off  stems  from  watercress  and  place  loosely  in 
center ;  over  all  thinly  strew  the  peas ;  dress  all  with  generous 
portion  of  Marinate.  Make  this  salad  large  or  small  accord- 
ing to  number  served.  The  lettuce  must  be  crisp ;  an  easy  way 
to  secure  same  is  to  wash  carefully  each  leaf  in  cold  water, 
and  shake  water  off;  let  stand  one  hour  in  cool  place.  Have 
all  vegetables  cold. 

— These  four  recipes  contributed  by  Herbert  L.  Aldridge, 
Chef,  Atlantic  City,  Nezv  Jersey. 

Fountain    Pen    Headquarters.      Every    Pen    Warranted    as    Represented    at 
58   IVIain   St.     Tliis    Is   Holmes'. 

76 


SALAD  DRESSING. 
One-half  cup  vinegar,  let  boil ;  two  eggs,  beaten  separately ; 
one-half  cup  milk;  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  two  dessertspoons 
sugar;  one  teaspoon  mustard  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Mix  all  together  and  put  in  boiling  vinegar  and  stir  over  fire 
until  thick  as  good  cream.  Remove  and  add  butter  size  of 
large  egg.    This  makes  a  pint. — Mrs.  Robbins. 

Fountain    Pen    Headquarters.      Every   Pen    Warranted   as    Represented    at 
58   Main   St.     Tliis    Is   Holmes'. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 
Four  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  cup  milk, 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  sugar;  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one- 
half  cup  vinegar,  dash  of  red  pepper.  Mix  butter  flour  sugar, 
and  mustard,  cook  in  double  boiler;  add  milk,  then  eggs 
and  last  vinegar;  cook  until  like  custard.  When  cold  and 
ready  to  serve  add  one  cup  whipped  cream. — M.  A.  F. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
Three  eggs,  one-third  cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons  oil  (or 
two  of  butter  and  two  of  oil),  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  vinegar, 
one  dessertspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  mustard,  pepper  to  taste. 
Beat  all  together  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 
This  will  keep  a  long  time.  The  addition  of  a  little  whipped 
cream  just  before  using  makes  it  much  nicer. 

Fountain    Pen    Headquarters.      Every   Pen    Warranted   as    Represented    at 
58   Main   St.     This   Is   Holmes'. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
One-half  cup  butter  (scant),  one-half  cup  vinegar.    Put  on 
the  stove ;  when  hot  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one  tablespoon  mustard,  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  mixed. 
Then  thin  with  milk  as  wanted,  (good) — Stella  Gibbs. 

SALAD  DRESSING  WITHOUT  OIL. 
One-half  tablespoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoon  sugar, 
pinch    cayenne,    pinch    of    mustard,     one-half    tablespoonful 
flour.     Mix  dry  ingredients  together  first,  then  add  yolks  of 

77 


two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one-half  tablespoon  butter,  three- 
fourths  cup  milk  or  cream,  one-half  tablespoon  vinegar.  Cook 
slowly  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. — Sara  E.  Hatch. 

'Uf    You    Want    the    Best,    We'll    Do    the    Rest,"    If    You    Order    Coal    at 

58   Main   St. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Cream  together  one-fourth  cup  butter  or  more  and  three 
large  tablespoons  sugar ;  stir  with  this  the  following :  one 
heaping  teaspoon  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon cayenne  and  one  large  tablespoon  flour.  Stir  three  eggs 
beaten  Hght  with  the  above  in  a  double  boiler.  Then  add 
to  this  one  cup  vinegar  and  one  cup  milk,  a  little  of  each  alter- 
nately, stirring  all  the  while ;  if  vinegar  is  very  strong,  use 
one-half  cup  vinegar  and  one-half  cup  water  instead  of  one 
cup  vinegar.    Cook  until  it  thickens. 

Cut  raw  apples  and  celery  in  dice  and  mix  with  the  dress- 
ing. I  often  cut  up  a  few  walnuts  and  add  to  it.  If  grapes 
are  in  season,  they  make  a  pretty  and  delicious  addition  cut 
in  halves  and  laid  over  the  top  of  each  portion  after  it  is 
placed  on  the  lettuce  leaves. — Miss  L.  M.  Whitney. 

SALAD  DRESSING  WITHOUT  OIL. 
One  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  table- 
spoonful  dry  mustard,  two  teaspoons  flour;  mix  all  to- 
gether, add  two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  five  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one-half  cup  vinegar.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  as  thick  as  cream. 
— Mrs.  Ella  Mullins. 

"If    You    Want    the    Best,    We'll    Do    the    Rest,"    If    You    Order    Coal    at 

58    Main    St. 

SMALL  SALAD  DRESSING  (For  Three  People). 
One-fourth  cup  vinegar  put  on  stove  to  heat;  add  a  piece 
of  butter  size  of  a  walnut;  mix  two  tablespoons  sugar  and 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  one  tgg  together 
and  add  vinegar  slowly.  Cook  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Hamblett. 

78 


SALAD  DRESSING. 
Three  eggs  beaten  together,  six  tablespoons  milk,  four  ta- 
blespoons melted  butter,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  one  cup  cider  vinegar.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  ten  minutes ;  will  keep  six  months. — Mrs. 
Fred  S.  Merrill 

"If    You    Want    the    Best,    We'll    Do    the    Rest,"    If    You    Order    Coal    at 

58   Main   St. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
One  tablespoon  mustard,  one-half  tablespoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoon sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  melted 
butter,  one  cup  vinegar.  First  mix  together  mustard,  salt  and 
sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Add  the  butter,  beating  all 
the  time.  Next  add  milk  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth ; 
last  add  the  vinegar.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  is  as 
thick  as  cream. — Miss  Elisabeth  Saxton,  Mrs.  Heman  El- 
dredge,  Mrs.  J.  A.  M. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 
Two  level  tablespoons  mustard,  three  level  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch. 
Dissolve  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  turn  in  enough 
boiling  water  to  make  thick  paste ;  pour  into  this  one-third 
cup  melted  butter,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  coffee  cup  milk, 
one  cup  vinegar.  Boil  in  double  boiler.  This  will  make  one 
quart. — Mrs.  B.  O.  Gibbs. 

"if    You    Want    the    Best,    We'll    Do    the    Rest,"    if    You    Order    Coal    at 

58   Main   St. 

POTATO  SALAD  DRESSING. 
One-half  tablespoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  few  grains  cayenne,  one-half 
tablespoon  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  one-fourth  cup 
vinegar;  mix  dry  ingredients,  add  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beat- 
en, butter,  milk,  and  vinegar  very  slowly.  Cook  until  it 
thickens  and  set  off  to  cool. — Mrs.  Heman  Eldredge. 

79 


FRENCH  DRESSING. 
One  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pep- 
per, few  grains  cayenne,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  six 
tablespoons  oil,  three  tablespoons  vinegar.  Rub  bowl  with 
onion,  mix  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne ;  add  paprika,  oil  and  vin- 
egar; stir  with  a  piece  of  ice,  taking  it  out  after  ingredients 
are  well  blended. — Annie  L.  Wade. 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING  (For  Two  People). 
Beat  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg  to  a  froth;  add  a  mustard- 
spoon  of  mustard  and  two  tablespoons  salad  oil,  pouring  in  a 
few  drops  at  a  time ;  add  one-half  tablespoon  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  one  teaspoon  sugar  if  liked. — C.  F.  M. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 
Have  utensils  and  materials  cold  before  commencing  to 
make  the  dressing.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  lemon- 
colored  and  thick;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  paprika,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one  teaspoon- 
ful sugar.  Then  beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  or  part 
vinegar  and  part  lemon  juice;  when  this  is  smooth  beat  in  one- 
half  teaspoonful  olive  oil  and  continue  beating  in  the  oil,  in- 
creasing the  quantity  to  a  teaspoonful  and  finally  to  a  table- 
spoonful  until  a  pint  has  been  used.  Use  a  Dover  egg  beater 
or  a  silver  fork,  and  beat  vigorously  all  of  the  time.  Cover 
with  a  saucer  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  use.  Be 
sure  and  beat  all  of  the  acid  into  the  eggs  at  first  or  the  oil 
cannot  be  added  in  the  quantities  given.  If  the  directions  are 
followed  carefully,  there  can  be  no  failure.  Mustard  and 
sugar  can  be  omitted. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Mcrritt. 


-STORE-  58  MAIN  ST.  OFFICE- 


80 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


You    Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


82 


44^**^% 


# 


'^**#^ 
^t-        #' 


-# 


.^k 


!•# 


AVE  You  EVER 

Tried  Special  Soft 
Shamokin  Coal  in 
Your  Cook  Stove? 


.#######%###^%j 


There  is  no  guess  work  about 
this  coal.  Customers  say  it  is  the 
freest,  brightest  and  best  coal  sold 
anywhere  for  the  money. 

It  isn't  easy  to  judge  coal — you 
must  burn  it  and  watch  it  carefully 
before  you  know  it  is  an  economical 
kind — unless  you  know  the  man 
you  deal  with. 

A  business  that  has  been  running 
for  thirty -six  years ;  a  business  so 
near  to  the  kitchen  as  the  coal  busi- 
ness must  have  a  reputation. 

Do  you  know  the  reputation  of 
Holmes'  coal  yard.  Did  you  ever 
hear  of  any  double  dealing  or  de- 
ceit there  ?  If  you  did,  don't  trade 
there  If  you  do  trade  with  Holmes, 
you  will  get  good  coal,  prompt  de- 
livery,   and    satisfaction  or  money 

back.         58  MAIN  STREET 


83 


Sauces  for  Meats,  FisK,  Etc. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

One  pint  stock,  two  tablespoonfuls  minced  onion,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper,  one  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice. 

Fry  onion  in  the  butter  five  minutes,  being  careful  that  it 
does  not  burn ;  add  the  dry  flour  and  stir  well ;  add  the  stock 
a  little  at  a  time  and  stir  rapidly  as  it  thickens  until  perfectly 
smooth ;  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  simmer  five  minutes  and 
strain  to  remove  the  onion. — E.  J.  M. 

Right    Coal,    Quantity,    Quality,    Price    and    Delivery,    at    Holmes'. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 
One  cup  mayonnaise  dressing,  one  tablespoonful  chopped 
pickles,  one  tablespoonful  capers,  one  tablespoonful  chopped 
parsley,  one-half  teaspoon  onion  juice.  Mix  all  together  care- 
fully with  dressing  before  using.  Olives  may  be  used  in  place 
of  pickles. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Crittenden. 

SAUCE  FOR  CHOPPED  BEETS. 
Put  into  saucepan  one-half   (scant)   cup  vinegar   (not  too 
sour),  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  good  sized  piece  of  butter, 
one  teaspoon  flour  in  a  little  water.     Let  come  to  a  boil  and 
serve  hot  with  the  cooked  beets. — Mrs.  Galen  K.  Tyler. 

Right    Coal,    Quantity,    Quality,    Price    and    Delivery,    at    Holmes'. 

RAW  CABBAGE  SAUCE. 
Two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
two  teaspoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  cup  vin- 
egar, one-half  cup  hot  water.  Beat  eggs  and  all  together ;  add 
the  hot  water.  Set  it  into  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it 
thickens  a  little.  When  cold,  pour  it  over  a  small  cabbage 
which  has  been  cut  fine. — Mrs.  L.  B.  Cash. 

84 


EGG  SAUCE. 
One-third  cup  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour  (level), 
one  and  one-half  cups  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  pepper;  add  two  hard  boiled  eggs  which  have 
been  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  slices.  For  baked  or  boiled  fish. 
— Mrs.  A.  W.  Stetson. 

THICK  WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  CUTLETS  OR 
CROQUETTES. 
Four  level  tablespoonfuls  flour,  two  level  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  one  cup  hot  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of 
pepper.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan  until  it  bubbles;  add  the 
flour,  salt  and  pepper;  mix  until  smooth;  then  pour  the  hot 
milk  in  gradually,  stirring  and  beating  each  time.  Cook  until 
it  thickens. — Mrs.  Mae  Simpson. 

Right   Coal,    Quantity,    Quality,    Price    and    Delivery,    at    Holmes'. 

FISH  SAUCE. 
One  cup  milk,  one  tgg,  one  level  tablespoonful  cornstarch, 
two  level  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  teaspoonful  catsup,  pinch 
cayenne  pepper.     Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens,  stirr- 
ing constantly. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Smith. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 
Two  level  tablespoonfuls  flour,  two  level  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter, one  cup  hot  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  pepper. 
Melt  butter  in  saucepan  until  it  bubbles;  add  the  flour,  salt 
and  pepper.  Mix  until  smooth,  then  pour  the  hot  milk  in 
gradually,  stirring  and  beating  each  time.  Cook  until  it  thick- 
ens.— Mrs.  Mary  Packard. 

Right    Coal,    Quantity,    Quality,    Price    and    Delivery,    at    Holmes'. 

VIRGINIA  STUFFING  FOR  ROAST  DUCK. 

To  two  cups  mashed  potatoes  seasoned  for  table,  add  one 
cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  sausage  meat  fried  lightly  and 
broken  with  a  fork,  one  beaten  tgg,  one-half  onion  grated  and 
one-half  teaspoon  sage. 

Before  stuffing  birds,  rub  them  inside  and  out  with  a  cut 
lemon. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Garvin. 

85 


BREAD  STUFFING  FOR  FISH. 
Take  a  quart  bowl  of  stale  bread  crumbs.  Soak  in  cold 
water,  when  soft  press  out  water;  add  one-half  cup  chopped 
suet,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  one  egg,  a  small  onion  chopped 
fine,  or  if  preferred  minced  parsley.  This  makes  stuffing  for 
two  small  or  one  large  fish. — Mrs.  Charles  Tully. 


You    Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


87 


M  11  Our  Special  Soft  Shamokin 
^1  Coal  is  pretty  nearly  perfect 
^J  for  the  cook  stove ;  that  is,  it 
is  coal  and  nothing  but  coal,  good 
coal,  without  stone  or  slate;  it  all 
bums,  leaves  few  ashes,  no  clinkers. 
^  Franklin  Coal  is  soft,  easily  melts  and 
forms  clinkers.  Our  Soft  Shamokin  does 
not,  and  it  costs  less.  Try  our  Soft  Shamo- 
kin and  you  will  be  "a  pleeised  customer," 
and  our  "best  advertisement." 
THIS  IS  HOLMES'  58  MAIN  ST. 


88 


Entrees. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

One-half  pound  of  chicken  chopped  fine  and  seasoned  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  celery  salt,  one- 
fourth  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  saltspoon  white  pepper, 
few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Make  one  pint  very  thick  cream 
sauce ;  when  thick  add  one  beaten  egg  and  mix  the  sauce  with 
the  chicken,  using  only  enough  to  make  it  soft  as  can  be  han- 
dled. Spread  on  a  shallow  plate  to  cool;  shape  in  rolls;  roll 
in  fine  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Drain  and  serve  with  a  thin  cream  sauce. — Mrs.  Clara  H, 
Bartlett 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  one  pint  of  oysters  fine ;  beat  one  egg  and  add  to 
the  oysters,  then  the  liquor.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Thicken  with  cracker  crumbs 
until  it  can  be  moulded  into  cakes.  Fry  in  hot  butter  a  deli- 
cate brown.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemons  and  serve 
hot.— Mr.y.  W.  H.  Poole. 

stationery,  Pens,  Pencils,   Ink  and  Postage  Stamps  at  Holmes'. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES. 
Into  rapidly  boiling  salted  water,  cook  one  cup  of  macaroni 
broken  into  half  inch  lengths,  until  tender.  Drain  and  rinse 
in  cold  water  and  dry  by  spreading  on  a  towel.  Make  a  sauce 
of  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  three  level  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika,  one  cup  milk 
or  tomato  puree.  Add  to  this  the  macaroni,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls grated  cheese  (American  or  Parmesan),  and  if  you  have 
it  one-fourth  cup  cooked  ham  or  tongue  chopped  fine.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  shallow  pan  to  cool ;  when  cool 
shape  in  triangles,  roll  in  grated  cheese,  dip  in  beaten  egg  di- 
luted with  one  tablespoonful  cold  water,  then  roll  in  sifted 
bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  These  may  be  served  with 
tomato  sauce. — Martha  Buckley. 

89 


SWEET  CORN  CROQUETTES. 
Scrape  the  corn  from  a  dozen  ears,  season  well  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  into  it  stir  two  chopped  green  peppers  that  hav^e 
been  fried  a  little  in  butter.  Stir  into  the  corn  the  beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs  and  then  enough  flour  to  make  it  of  a  consistency 
that  will  permit  of  its  being  shaped  into  croquettes.  Roll  these 
in  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  then  in  flour  and  drop  into  hot  fat  to 
brown.  — Mrs.  Addie  Joslyn. 

A   Big  Nickel's  Worth,   Holmes'  Peerless  Lead   Pencil. 

POTATO    CROQUETTES. 

One  and  one-half  pint  mashed  potato ;  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, celery  salt,  onion  juice;  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Shape,  roll 
in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry.  They  want 
to  stand  until  cold  after  they  are  shaped,  before  you  fry. — 
Mrs.  Julia  Joslyn. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

One  can  sweet  corn,  one  cup  pastry  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pap- 
rika, two  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  added  separately. 
Drop  small  spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  into  deep,  hot  fat  and 
cook  until  a  rich  brown. — Mrs.  IV.  H.  Poole. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 
One  egg,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
little  salt,  one-half  cup  bread  flour,  (may  need  a  little  more 
flour).  Pare  apples,  cut  out  cores ;  cut  apples  around  in  slices  ; 
dip  in  batter,  then  fry  in  hot  fat  as  you  would  doughnuts.  To 
be  eaten  with  meat. — A.  S.  K. 

A   Big   Nickel's  Worth,  Holmes'  Peerless  Lead   Pencil. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 
Two  cups  lobster  meat,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains 
cayenne,  few  gratings  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  One  cup  white  sauce  made 
by  melting  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  three- 
fourths  cup  milk ;  stir  well.  Mix  in  order  given  and  cool. 
Shape  in  cutlet  form,  dip  in  dried  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep 
fat  until  a  golden  brown. — Mrs.  Ralph  D.  Poole. 


CORN  TIMBALLS. 
Two  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  green  corn. 
Pour  into  buttered  cups  and  set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 
Bake,  serve  on  hot  platter. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Hart. 

SCALLOPED  CRACKER  AND  CHEESE. 
Split  and  butter  well,  enough  crackers  to  half  fill  a  baking 
dish.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  grated  cheese  and  cover  with 
cold  milk ;  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  more 
milk,  butter  and  cheese  and  one  egg  well  beaten.  Bake  an 
hour.— Mrs.  G.  M.  Hart. 

BAKED  ONIONS  IN  RAMEKINS. 
Peel  and  parboil  twelve  medium  onions,  drain,  chop.  Melt 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  cream  or  chicken 
stock,  four  tablespoonfuls  finely  chopped  parsley,  four  table- 
spoons soft  bread  crumbs.  Boil  five  minutes,  add  one  egg 
well  beaten  and  the  chopped  onion ;  cool  slightly,  add  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  add  more  seasoning  if  needed,  and  bake 
in  buttered  ramekins  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  immediately. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wade. 

A   Big   Nickel's  Wortln,   Holmes'  Peerless  Lead   Pencil. 

TURKISH  DOUSMA. 

Cut  tender  summer  squash  in  half-inch  slices,  crosswise. 
Place  a  layer  of  these  in  a  deep,  broad,  baking  dish ;  cover 
each  slice  with  finely  chopped  beef  or  lamb,  raw,  and  a  sprin- 
kle of  salt  pork,  or  any  fat  preferred ;  add  to  each  slice  of  to- 
mato, season  well  with  chopped  onion,  red  pepper  and  salt ; 
lastly  add  another  slice  of  squash.  Then  pour  enough  boiling 
water  around  them  to  come  to  the  upper  layer  of  squash,  start 
boiling  on  the  stove,  then  bake  for  two  hours. 

Remove  the  portions  of  dousma  to  a  large  chop  plate,  slight- 
ly thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  pour  over  them  and  serve  hot. 

This  is  very  nice  for  supper  or  luncheon,  and  may  be  pre- 
pared with  egg  plant  or  large  cucumbers  instead  of  summer 
squash. — Jean  R.  Puffer. 

9^ 


DEVILED  SCALLOPS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  one  pint  scallops  and  let  them  stand 
three  minutes,  drain,  cut  into  quarters.  Make  a  cup  of  sauce 
with  one-half  cup  chicken  stock,  one-half  cup  thin  cream,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  three  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  a  generous  seasoning  of 
cayenne.  Add  two  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  the  scallops.  Pour 
into  ramekins  or  scallop  shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  until  brown. — Mrs.  Mary  L.  Wade, 

RICE  AND  CHEESE  BALLS. 

Mix  well  together  two  cups  soft  steamed  rice,  one  beaten 
tgg,  one-half  cup  grated  cheese,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-half  saltspoon  grated  nutmeg. 
Form  into  small  cylinders,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. — Mrs.  Belle  W.  Miller. 

f^t/»e^t/»c^t/»«^t/»c^t*f^f»f^l»f^f^  ^  ef/»  fv?»  cf/»  cf/*  €$/»€>!/» 
^^^     .       r-  .  ^ 

Holmes  I  An  Expert        I 
Cook  says:-  J^ 


•^  '^  -r  -r  f  -r  'sr 

•t*  58  Main  St.  t 

f\t»  ENTERPRISE  BLDG.  ^ 

fffft/f  ^^f^l»l^l»f^t/^^^t^f^v»  csw  ff»  ff*  f\v»  cff  fftevpi 


'  'There  are  many  kinds  of 
coal  and  several  kinds  of 
coal  dealers,  but  I  have 
found  that  I  can  get  better 
coal,  cleaner  coal,  and  get  it 
more  promptly  of  Holmes, 
at  58  Main  Street,  than  any- 
where I  ever  traded. ' ' 

This  is  what  we  mean 
when  we  say:— "^  pleased 
customer  is  the  best  adver- 
tisement. ' ' 


92 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


93 


me  Reporter  s 


Id 


ea. 


They  were  sitting  in  the  parlor, 
Where  the  light  was  low  and  dim  ; 

She  seemed  very  well  contented, 
And  no  murmur  came  from  him. 

"George,"  she  asked,  "are  you  reporting 

For  that  horrid  paper  yet  ? 
It  is  shameful  how  they  publish 

All  the  scandal  they  can  get." 

"No,  my  love,"  he  jinswered  softly. 

And  he  winked  unto  himself, 
"I  have  left."  (In  fact,  that  morning 

They  had  laid  him  on  the  shelf.) 

"But,"  he  said,  as  he  hugged  her  closer. 

She  returning  the  caress, 
"Just  at  present  I  am  working 

For  the  Associated  Press." 

They  burn  Holmes'  Special  Soft 
Shamokin  Coal  now. 


94 


Puddings. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Soak  one  cup  bread  crumbs  in  two  cups  milk ;  melt  two 
squares  chocolate,  add  three  tablespoons  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  milk ;  cook  over  steam  two  minutes ;  add  bread  and  milk, 
two  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  sugar  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Creamy  Sauce  for  Same : — Cream  one-third  cup  butter,  add 
one  cup  powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  cream  and  one  tea- 
spoon extract. — Maria  W.  Hotvard. 

Subscriptions    for    Any    Paper    or    Magazine    as    Low    as    the    Lowest,    at 
Holmes',  58   IVIain   St. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING. 

Six  medium  sized  potatoes  boiled  and  pressed  through 
sieve,  one  tablespoonful  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  Heat  one  quart  milk  and  pour  on  to  the  potato 
and  spices ;  lastly  beat  three  eggs  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Butter  the  dish  well  and  bake  one  hour. 

Sauce  for  Same : — One  cup  sugar  rubbed  with  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg  to  a  cream,  and  one-half  lemon,  juice  and  rind 
grated. — R.  R.  Skippen. 

Subscriptions    for    Any    Paper    or    Magazine    as    Low    as    the    Lowest,    at 
Holmes',  58   Main   St. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  butter,  creamed ;  one  tablespoon  sugar,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon 
saleratus,  one  cup  strawberry  preserves.  Put  in  mould  and 
steam  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Sauce  for  Same: — Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  one  cup 
sugar;  one  egg  beaten;  one-half  cup  strawberry  preserves.^— 
Mrs.  W.  P.  Chisholm. 

95 


SNOW  BALLS. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  one  cup  sugar,  beat  well; 
then  add  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs ;  mix  two  tablespoon fuls 
of  baking  powder  with  two  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  add  alter- 
nately with  one  cup  milk.  Fill  cups  half  full,  steam  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes;  roll  in  powdered  sugar;  serve  with  creamy 
sauce. — Mrs.  Stina  Johnson. 

This  Is  Holmes',  58  Main  St.,  the  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod. 

CUP  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter, 
one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cloves,  a  grating  of 
nutmeg,  one-half  cup  raisins,  same  of  currants,  one  pint  pas- 
try flour.  Put  soda  in  molasses,  heat  until  light  colored ; 
add  butter,  sour  milk,  flour  to  which  spices  have  been  added, 
then  fruit.  Fill  cups  half  full.  Steam  one  hour. — Mrs.  J.  I. 
Merritt. 

STEAMED   CHOCOLATE   PUDDING. 

One  ^^g,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour, 
one  square  melted  chocolate.  Steam  one  hour. — Mrs.  L.  F. 
Gurney. 

This  Is  Holmes',  58  Main  St.,  the  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING  AND  METHOD  OF 
COOKING. 

Into  one  cup  molasses  stir  seven  tablespoonfuls  sifted  In- 
dian meal.  Fill  spider  two-thirds  full  of  milk;  when  it  ap- 
proaches boiling,  stir  in  meal  and  molasses,  boil  until  it  thick- 
ens, stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Set  aside  to  cool; 
add  milk  to  make  two  quarts,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  egg  and  one  egg',  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Butter  well  a 
baking  pan,  pour  in  mixture  and  set  it  in  a  similar  pan  of 
larger  size  containing  hot  water.     Bake  from  eight  A.  M.  till 

96 


six  P.  M.,  keeping  closely  covered.  After  baking  half  an 
hour,  fill  pan  with  cold  milk  but  do  not  stir.  If  care  is  taken 
to  keep  closely  covered  and  sufficient  water  is  put  in,  it  will 
need  no  attention  till  done. — Mrs.  L.  W.  Puffer. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  molasses,  three 
level  tablespoons  flour,  three  level  tablespoons  Indian  meal. 
Scald  milk  in  double  boiler;  mix  the  other  ingredients  to- 
gether and  add  to  the  milk;  stir  briskly  about  two  minutes, 
then  pour  into  pudding  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  hot 
oven.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  N.  E.  Sullivcm. 

This  Is  Holmes',  58  Main  St.,  the  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Two  quarts  milk,  one  cup  Indian  meal,  one  handful  rye 
meal,  one  and  one-half  cups  molasses,  little  salt ;  scald  half 
the  milk,  mix  the  other  with  meal  and  molasses;  stir  into  the 
scalded  milk,  let  it  cook  until  it  thickens,  then  add  two  eggs, 
a  piece  of  butter  and  nutmeg.  Bake  very  slowly  from  two 
to  three  hours. — Mrs.  Z.  G.  Marston. 

MOCK  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Two  slices  of  white  bread,  buttered  well ;  one-half  cup 
molasses,  one  tgg,  one  quart  milk.  Bake  in  a  slow  fire  one 
and  one-half  hours.  To  be  eaten  with  cream.  Nice. — Mrs. 
D.  K.  Carpenter. 

This  Is  Holmes',  58  Main  St.,  the  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod. 

DATE  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  flour,  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  stoned 
dates  chopped ;  mix  with  milk ;  boil  one  and  one-half  hour. 
To  be  eaten  with  a  nice  warm  sauce. — Mrs.  D.  K.  Carpenter. 

97 


FRUIT  PUFFS. 

One  pint  sifted  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  pure 
baking  powder  and  a  little  salt ;  make  into  a  soft  batter,  with 
milk.  Put  into  well  greased  cups  a  spoonful  of  batter,  then 
one  of  strawberries  (or  any  other  fruit  preferred),  then  an- 
other of  batter.  Steam  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  sauce. 
— Mrs.  Belcher  Holhrook. 

THE    Place  to   See  AM   That's   New    in    Postcards,   58    Main    St. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

One  pint  milk,  and  one-half  cup  meal ;  boil  until  thick.  Add 
one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  a  little  salt,  one 
pint  cold  milk.  Bake  in  slow  oven  for  three  hours. — Mrs. 
Jennie  Ford. 

INDIAN  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Three  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  over  night,  one  quart 
milk,  two  tablespoons  Indian  meal,  one  &gg,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  one  cup  molasses,  little  salt  and  cinnamon ;  cook  all 
together  until  thick;  add  one  cup  cold  milk;  bake  one  hour. 
— £^^01  Copp. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  squares 
of  Baker's  chocolate,  a  little  salt,  one  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  cornstarch ;  cook  all  together  in  a  double  boiler ; 
put  into  a  dish.  Beat  whites  of  eggs,  add  one-half  cup  sugar, 
a  little  vanilla.  Spread  over  top  of  pudding. — Mrs.  Burton 
Chase. 

THE    Place   to   See  All   That's    New    in    Postcards,   58    Main    St. 

APPLE  GINGERBREAD  PUDDING. 

Put  thick  layer  of  sliced  apple  in  baking  pan ;  season  with 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  salt ;  over  the  apples  pour  a  gingerbread 
made  as  follows :  Three-quarters  cup  molasses,  one  and  one- 
half  mixing  spoons  melted  butter,  a  little  ginger,  one  saltspoon 

98 


salt,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one-quarter  cup  boiling  water,  one- 
quarter  cup  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

Sauce  for  Pudding. — One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  little  salt. 
Beat  together.  Pour  over  one  cup  boiling  water. — Mrs.  Jen- 
nie Ford. 

THE    Place  to   See  All   That's   New    in    Postcards,   58   Main    St. 

TAPIOCA   PUDDING. 

Stir  two  tablespoonfuls  minute  tapioca  with  one  quart  milk 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  double  boiler;  to  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  add  one  cup  sugar  and  two  small  tablespoonfuls  of 
cornstarch,  a  little  salt  and  cook  until  quite  thick.  Cool  and 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  put  over  the  top. — Mrs.  A.  C. 
Hayward. 

WHITE  HOUSE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  dry  cake  crumbs,  one  cup  molasses,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  a  little  salt 
and  nutmeg.     Steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  D.  M.  Rycm. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  one  pint  water,  one  pint  bread  crumbs, 
one-third  cup  molasses,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  salt  and  spices 
to  taste,  one  cup  raisins,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Put  all  to- 
gether on  stove  for  a  thorough  scald,  then  add  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  Bake  four  or  five  hours  in  earthern  dish  covered. 
This  is  delicious. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Pooh. 

THE    Place   to   See   All   That's    New    in    Postcards,   58    Main    St. 

CUP  CUSTARDS. 

Beat  three  eggs  with  a  pinch  of  salt ;  add  six  level  table- 
spoonfuls sugar ;  beat  to  a  froth ;  flavor  with  orange,  vanilla 
or  lemon.  Stir  into  this  one  quart  of  milk ;  fill  cups  and  set 
in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  oven  of  moderate  heat.  This 
rule  makes  six  cups  custard. — Hilda  Johnson. 

99 


SNOW  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  three  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold 
water ;  pour  over  it  one  pint  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
little  salt,  then  add  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Steam  over  tea  kettle  ten  minutes. 

Sauce. — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  and  flavor. — Mrs.  F.  S.  Johnson. 

Please  Your  Cook  V^lth  the   Best  Coal.     This   Is  Holmes'. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one  egg, 
one  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
salt. 

Chocolate  Sauce. — One  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  cocoa,  one 
tablespoon  cornstarch.  Mix  all  together,  dry  and  stir  into 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiling  water;  boil  well,  then  add 
one  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  salt  and  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla. — Mrs.  Edith  G.  O'Hayre. 

ORIGINAL  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 
One-half  cup  pearl  tapioca,  two  cups  cold  water,  one  table- 
spoon sugar,  salt,  nutmeg,  one-half  egg,  one  cup  milk.  Take 
tapioca,  add  salt,  pour  over  it  two  cups  cold  water  and  soak 
about  two  hours,  then  cook  slowly  until  clear.  Beat  one  egg 
thoroughly,  take  one-half  of  it,  put  into  tumbler  and  fill  with 
milk.  Put  into  pudding  dish,  add  sugar,  and  pour  the  cooked 
tapioca  into  it ;  stir  well  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it.  Bake 
about  an  hour.  Serve  with  maple  syrup  or  milk  or  cream  and 
sugar. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Sweetland. 

Please  Your  Cook  With  the   Best  Coal.     This   Is  Holmes'. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  PUDDING. 
Four  graham  crackers  soaked  in  one  pint  milk;  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  salt,  piece  of  butter  size  of  small 
egg.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  with  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar  and  serve 
as  sauce. — B.  K.  P. 


PEACH  PUDDING. 

Have  twelve  half  peaches  spread  out  with  sugar  in  the  hol- 
lows. Rub  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  into  one  pint  flour 
sifted  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt.  Beat  one  egg  very  light,  stir  into  one  scant  cupful 
milk  and  mix  this  gradually  with  the  prepared  flour,  beating 
well  at  the  last.  Pour  this  into  a  pan  large  enough  to  allow 
the  fruit  to  be  spread  out  and  the  batter  about  one  inch  thick; 
bake  half  an  hour  in  quick  oven;  serve  with  cream.  Very 
nice. — Frances  Keith. 

Please  Your  Cook  With  the  Best  Coal.     This   Is  Holmes'. 

GRANDMA'S  CRACKER  PUDDING. 

Soak  eight  large  Boston  crackers  in  three  pints  of  milk; 
boil  one-half  pound  raisins  till  soft.  Beat  together  three  eggs, 
six  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one-half  nutmeg  grated  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Butter  a  paper  and  place  in  bottom  of  a  pail; 
put  in  a  layer  of  crackers,  some  raisins  and  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  the  egg  mixture  and  repeat  until  it  is  all  used; 
pour  on  top  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  cover  and  steam  three 
hours. 

Foamy  Sauce: — Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  until  foamy, 
but  not  dry ;  add  one  cup  sugar  and  beat  well ;  add  one  cup 
boiling  milk  and  juice  of  one  lemon. — Mrs.  Elijah  A.  Keith. 

Please  Your  Cook  With  the   Best  Coal.     This   Is  Holmes'. 

CRACKER  PUDDING. 

Take  one-half  dozen  common  crackers,  halve  them  and  soak 
in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Then  put  in  baking  pan,  not  let- 
ting them  touch  each  other,  and  drop  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
each.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  drop 
raspberry  jam  on  each  and  serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Sauce: — One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  beaten  very  light;  then 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  hot  milk  and  little  vanilla. — Gladys 
W.  Tdber. 


DELICIOUS  CRACKER  PUDDING  WITH 
RASPBERRIES. 

One  large  teacupful  cracker  crumbs,  one  quart  milk,  one 
spoonful  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  whole 
egg  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  adding  a 
little  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done 
spread  over  the  top,  while  hot,  one  pint  well  sugared  rasp- 
berries ;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  very  stiflf  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  extract  or  what- 
ever flavor  one  prefers.  Spread  this  over  the  berries  and  bake 
a  light  brown.  Serve  with  fruit  sauce  made  of  raspberries. — 
Mrs.  James  F.  Sullivan. 

If  You  Want  the   Best  Fountain   Pen   Satisfaction,  C.   Holmes,  58  Main   St. 

ENGLISH  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  spice  to  taste ;  bread 
should  be  browned  in  oven  first. 

Sauce : — One  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  but- 
ter, one  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water.  Rub  butter 
and  sugar  together  until  creamed  and  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg ; 
place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  if  sugar  does  not 
dissolve  readily,  keep  the  bowl  in  a  hot  place  until  all 
is  smooth,  stirring  constantly.  The  sauce  should  be  rich,  yel- 
low syrup  when  finished.  Turn  it  into  a  serving  bowl  and 
place  on  top  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  which  must  be  stirred 
into  the  sauce  after  the  latter  is  on  the  table.  Flavor  to  taste. 
— Mrs.  C.  H.  Spaulding. 

If  You   Want  the   Best   Fountain    Pen   Satisfaction,   C.   Holmes,  58   Main   St. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
clove,  one  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour,  one  cup  raisins. 
Steam  three  hours. — iV.  B.  Caszirll. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  two-thirds  cup  raisins,  two-thirds 
cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  molasses,  one  cup  milk, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  clove,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Steam  two  or  three  hours. — 
Mrs.  Jessie  Thomas. 

If  You   Want  the   Best   Fountain   Pen   Satisfaction,   C.   Holmes,  58   IN^ain   St. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

One  cup  finely  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  suet,  one 
cup  molasses,  one  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cas- 
sia, one  teaspoon  clove,  little  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  milk,  salt.  Steam  three  hours.  Very  necessary  to 
keep  water  boiling. 

Sauce  for  Pudding: — One-half  pint  cream  whipped,  two 
eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  sugar ;  mix  whipped  cream  and 
eggs  together,  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  Hem  an  Eldredge. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  milk,  one  cup  berries,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla.    Steam  one-half  hour  in  cups. — Sara  E.  Hatch. 

If  You  Want  the   Best  Fountain   Pen  Satisfaction,   C.   Holmes,  58   Main   St. 

WEDDING  PUDDING. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  butter, 
four  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one 
egg,  nutmeg,  fruit,  salt.     Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce : — One  pint  hot  water,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  lemon. 
Boil  until  it  thickens. 

Hard  Sauce: — One  cup  frosting  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
white  of  one  egg.    Mix  until  smooth. — Mrs.  Dudley. 

103 


VEGETABLE  PLUM  PUDDING. 
One  cup  grated  carrot,  one  cup  grated  potato,  one-half  cup 
suet,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  molasses  (or  one  cup  molasses  in  place  of  molasses 
and  sugar),  one  cup  currants,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  clove,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon allspice.     Steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  A.    Thompson. 

Holmes'    Trade    Mark,    the    Filled    Hod,    Stands    for    Quality    and    Square 

Dealing, 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

Two-thirds  cup  pork  chopped  fine,  one  cup  molasses,  one 

cup  milk,  one  cup  raisins  chopped,  two  and  one-half  cups 

flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  one  teaspoon  saleratus ;  spice  to 

taste.    Steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Pratt,  E.  Bridge-mater. 

STEAMED  BREAD  PUDDING. 
Two  cups  chopped  bread,  one  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  soda  in  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one 
teaspoonful  melted  buiter,  one  egg,  spice,  salt.     Steam  three 
hours. — vS".  Shaw. 

Holmes'    Trade    IVlartc,    the    Filled    Hod,    Stands   for    Quality    and    Square 

Dealing. 

FUDGE  CAKE  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM. 
(A  Nice  Dessert.) 

Beat  one-half  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually  beat  in — 

One  cup  sugar. 

The  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs, 

Three  squares  of  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water. 

One-half  cup  molasses. 

One-half  cup  sour  milk. 

One-half  cup  hot  water,  and  then 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  pastry  flour  sifted  again 
with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  soda. 

Bake  in  a  hot,  well  buttered  muffin  pan,  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

104 


CHOCOLATE  CRUMBS. 
Mix  together  one  and  one-half  cups  soft  bread  crumbs 
(taken  from  bread  about  two  or  three  days  old),  one  and  one- 
half  squares  of  chocolate  cut  into  small  pieces,  two  tablespoons 
sugar  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt.  Set  into  a  moderate  oven, 
stir  frequently.  When  chocolate  is  melted  and  the  crumbs 
are  well  covered,  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Sprinkle  chopped 
pistachio  nuts  or  almonds  on  the  cream. — Mrs.  Mary  L.  Wade. 

Holmes'    Trade    Mark,    the    Filled    Hod,    Stands    for    Quality    and    Square 

Dealing. 

CRACKER  PUDDING   (Good). 
Nine  common  crackers, 
Three  eggs. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  white  sugar, 
One-fourth  cup  molasses. 
One- fourth  cup  butter. 
One-half  teaspoon  salt, 
Two  teaspoons  mixed  spices, 
Two  cups  raisins, 
One  cup  currants. 

Three  apples  chopped,  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 
About  one  cup  of  milk. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  slowly,  stirring  occasionally  at 
first. — Miss  Mary  H.  Nugent. 

Holmes'    Trade    Mark,    the    Filled    Hod,    Stands    for    Quality    and    Square 

Dealing. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDING    (Fine). 
Four  eggs, 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  sugar, 
One  and  three-fourths  cups  milk. 
Three  and  one-half  squares  chocolate  grated, 
Three  and  one-half  cups  flour. 
Five  and  one-fourth  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Steam  two  hours. 

— Miss  Mary  H.  Nugent. 

105 


OLD  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  best  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  two 
and  one-half  pounds  dark  brown  sugar,  three  pounds  raisins 
(seeded),  three  pounds  currants,  two  pounds  citron  (do  not 
cut  too  fine),  one-half  pound  blanched  almonds  (chopped), 
seven  teacups  flour,  two  teacups  molasses,  two  teaspoons 
saleratus,  two  lemons,  chop  rind  fine,  squeeze  in  the  juice, 
one  dessertspoonful  of  the  following  spices:  cloves, 
cinnamon,  a  level  desertspoonful  of  ginger;  one  small  nut- 
meg and  ten  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  brandy;  add  just  enough 
water  to  have  a  very  stiff  dough,  one  large  dessertspoonful  of 
salt. 

This  quantity  will  make  four  very  large  puddings  that  will 
take  ten  hours  to  boil.  Half,  or  even  a  quarter,  will  be  enough 
for  a  small  family,  but  do  not  diminish  the  time  in  boiling. 
Keep  pudding  covered  while  boiling.  Use  plenty  of  water 
and  on  no  account  let  water  stop  boiling  while  cooking  the 
pudding.  Serve  with  any  rich  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  Wesley  Stet- 
son. 

STEAMED  PLUM   PUDDING. 

Ten  crackers  rolled,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup 
water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg, 
cinnamon  and  clove,  one  quart  of  milk.  Soak  rolled  crackers 
in  the  cup  of  water,  add  spices  and  salt  to  sugar.  Add  this  to 
the  crackers  and  mix  well ;  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Steam  four 
hours  in  an  uncovered  dish,  stirring  often  to  prevent  raisins 
from  settling.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

Sauce  for  Above. — Cream  together  one  cup  sugar,  a  scant 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  one  well  beaten  Qgg,  and  boiling 
water  to  make  quite  thin,  flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
— Mrs.  Sarah  Tucker. 


RABYDURE     fLEAN 
fteSlEERlESSVOAL 

io6 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


107 


You    Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


1 08 


The         ^ 

Question  • 

Is  not  whether  you  are  doing  well 
or  badly  with  the  coal  you  are  now 
using,  but  whether  you  are  doing 
as  well  as  you  might. 

The    old    proverb,    "a    rolling 
stone  gathers   no    moss,"  may  be 
well   off-set    with    "a   setting    hen 
never  gets  fat." 

Perhaps  you  have  never  tried 
our   Special   Soft  Shamokin  Coal 
for  your  cook  stove.     It  is  a  coal 
that  was,  perhaps,  not  known  when 
you  went  to  housekeeping,  but  it 
is  giving   the    greatest   satisfaction 
here  and  now.     Wouldn't  it  pay 
you  to  try  some? 

58  MAIN  STREET 

****#% 
##*#** 
##*##% 

#* 
** 
#* 

#%*#*%* 
*#**#%* 
#%###*# 

WOLMES/ 

109 


Pudding  Sauces. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE. 
One  cup  sugar  added  to  one-half  box  hulled  strawberries; 
add  enough  water  to  cover  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Serve  in- 
dividual portions  of  vanilla  ice  cream  in  tall-stemmed  glasses 
and  pour  over  the  sauce  from  pitcher  or  bowl. — Mrs.  L.  F. 
Gurney. 

Get  Your  P.  O.  Stamps  and  Money  Orders  at  58  Main  St.    This  Is  Holmes'. 

FRENCH  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Wet  two  rounding  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  cold  water; 
stir  until  smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Stir  this  into  one  cup 
boiling  water;  cook  ten  minutes;  set  away  until  cold.  With 
the  hand  cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  one  cupful  sugar  until 
light  and  white.  Combine  mixtures;  mix  thoroughly,  flavor 
with  vanilla. — Nellie  Lyons. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Blend  one  large  tablespoon  butter  with    one    small    table- 
spoonful  pastry  flour;  add  boiling    water    to   make    a    thick 
cream ;  cool  and  add  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar.     Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

COLD  ORANGE  SAUCE. 
Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  fine 
granulated  sugar;  then  stir  in  the  grated  rind  of  one-half  an 
orange,  and  the  juice  of  one;  stir  until  all  the  orange  juice 
is  absorbed ;  sprinkle  a  little  mace  over  sauce  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  Wallace  A.  Smith. 

Get  Your  P.  O.  Stamps  and  Money  Orders  at  58  Main  St.    This  Is  Holmes'. 

HARD  SAUCE. 
Beat  one-half  cup  butter  to  a  cream ;  then  slowly  beat  in 
one  cup  sugar.    When  light  and  white  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
white  of  one  egg ;  add  this  slowly.    Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs. 
T.  A.  Hopkins. 


SNOWDRIFT  SAUCE. 
Rub  one-quarter  cup  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  warm  bowl ;  add 
gradually  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar;  then  add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  your  favorite  extract  or  a  little  mace.  Pile  it 
lightly  on  a  small  fancy  dish.  Set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 
— Mrs.  Jennie  Jefferson. 

Get  Your  P.  O.  Stamps  and  Money  Orders  at  58  Main  St.    This  Is  Holmes'. 

FOAMY  SAUCE. 

Whites  of  two  eggs ;  one  cup  powdered  sugar ;  one-half  cup 
hot  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add 
sugar  gradually  and  continue  beating;  add  milk  and  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Hall. 

FOAMY  SAUCE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored; 
add  slowly  one-quarter  cup  sugar;  beat  until  light.  Into  this 
mixture  stir  three  tablespoonfuls  hot  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  your  favorite  flavor.  Now  fold  in  the 
stififly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. — Kittie  Connolly. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Cream  one-half  cup  butter  and  one  cup  powdered  or  fine 
granulated  sugar;  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat.     Lastly  add 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff;  flavor. — Mrs.  D.  W.  Field. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Two  cups  milk,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  sugar,  salt;  mix   above    and  put    in   double 
boiler;  when  heated,  add  one  tablespoonful    flour    wet    with 
milk.    Cook  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  Alfred  H  aught  on. 

Get  Your  P.  O.  Stamps  and  Money  Orders  at  58  Main  St.     Tills  Is  Holmes'. 

CURLED  BUTTER. 
Make  pyramid  or  other  form  of  butter.  Through  coarse 
sieve  push  small  pieces  of  butter,  take  them  off  the  under 
side  of  sieve  with  knife  and  cover  the  form  already  made. 
Pretty  for  fairs  or  festivals. — Ada  A.  Brewster,  Kingston, 
Mass. 


You   Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


D    [=][=]   C 


What 

Skilled  Cooks 
Prefer. 

Ask  the  woman  who  does 
her  own  work,  the  hired  girl, 
or  the  professional  cook,  why 
they  are  now  using  Shamokin 
Coal.  They  will  tell  you  that 
it  is  because  it  is  pure  coal,  that 
it  is  clean,  that  it  kindles  quickly, 
makes  a  hot  fire,  can  always  be 
depended  on,  and  contains  so 
little  waste  that  it  doesn't  pay 
to  sift  the  ashes. 

It  is  economical.  It  takes  less 
coal  to  do  the  same  v/ork,  and 
it  gives  perfect  results  in  the 
kitchen. 

THIS  IS  HOLMES'  Corp. 
58  MAIN  ST. 


©' 


□    !=!!: 


113 


Cold  Desserts. 

PECHE  MELBA. 
Choose  large,  fair  peaches;  peel  and  cut  in  halves,  remov- 
ing the  stones.  Take  as  many  rounds  of  sponge  cake  as  there 
are  halves  of  peaches ;  cover  each  round  with  a  rich  fruit 
juice,  such  as  pineapple  (sugar  can  be  added  to  canned  pine- 
apple juice  and  cooked  down  to  a  syrup)  and  place  a  half 
of  peach  on  each  round  of  cake ;  fill  the  cavities  of  the  peaches 
with  a  rich  vanilla  ice  cream  with  bits  of  cherries  on  top.  A 
Melba  sauce  comes  in  bottles  for  Peche  Melba. — Mrs.  John 
Q.  Ford. 

If  You  Want  Your  Coal   Prompt  and  When   Promised,    Buy  of  Holmes. 

COFFEE  SPANISH  CREAM. 
Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  boiled  coffee,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one-third  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  granulated 
gelatine  and  heat  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  add  one-third  cup  sugar  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt; 
add  to  first  mixture  and  cook  until  thickened.  Remove  from 
range,  add  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  one-half 
teaspoon  vanilla;  turn  into  individual  moulds,  first  dipped  in 
cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar  and  thin 
cream. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Stedman. 

If  You  Want  Your  Coal   Prompt  and  When   Promised,    Buy  of  Holmes. 

STRAWBERRY  CREAM  CAKES. 
Melt  one-half  cup  butter  in  one  cupful  boiling  water,  with 
one  teaspoonful  salt  added ;  then  add  a  rounding  cupful  sifted 
flour,  stirring  until  the  mixture  rolls  into  a  ball,  leaving  the 
sides  of  the  saucepan ;  when  cool,  turn  into  a  mixing  bowl  and 
beat  in,  one  at  a  time,  four  eggs ;  when  well  mixed  drop  in 
tablespoonfuls  on  a  buttered  baking  pan,  some  distance  apart. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven ;  the  cakes  should  be 
a  pretty  golden  brown  when  removed  from  the  oven.  Let 
cool  and  fill  with  a  cream  made  from  strawberries.     Press  the 

114 


berries  through  a  sieve,  add  to  one  cupful  of  the  pulp  one  cup- 
ful rich  cream  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Beat  until  the  mix- 
ture is  a  thick  stiff  cream  and  fill  the  cakes  by  slitting  an 
opening  on  one  side  of  each  cake  and  filling  with  the  cream. 
The  quantity  mentioned  will  fill  fourteen  cakes. — Mrs.  Wal- 
lace Smith. 

If  You  Want  Your  Coal  Prompt  and  When  Promised,   Buy  of  Holmes. 

TAPIOCA  ICE. 

Soak  one  and  one-half  cups  tapioca  over  night.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  transparent ;  add  one  cup  sugar ;  peel  and 
mince  fine  one  juicy  pineapple.  When  cool  add  together  and 
set  on  ice.  Serve  with  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  D. 
M.  Feeney. 

STRAWBERRY  DESSERT. 

One-half  pound  marshmallows  cut  in  fine  pieces ;  one  box 
strawberries  mashed  and  sweetened ;  one-half  pint  cream 
whipped  stiff,  slightly  sweetened.  Mix  together  and  set  on 
ice  until  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

FLUFFY  RUFFLES. 
One  package  raspberry  Jell-O  prepared  by  directions  on 
package.  When  it  begins  to  harden,  add  one-half  pint 
whipped  cream  and  one  can  (ten  cents)  cocktail  pineapple 
which  has  been  chopped  fine  and  cooked  ten  minutes  with  one- 
half  cup  sugar;  put  in  mould  and  chill. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Elliott. 

If  You  Want  Your  Coal   Prompt  and  When   Promised,   Buy  of  Holmes. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 
Heat  one  and  one-half  cups  coffee,  one-half  cup  milk  and 
one-half  box  gelatine  in  a  double  boiler.  When  gelatine  is 
dissolved,  add  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  yolks  of 
three  eggs  beaten  together.  Cook  all  together  until  it  thickens, 
then  remove  from  fire  and  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
stiff  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  mould  and  chill.  Serve 
with  cream,  plain  or  whipped.  The  above  recipe  is  very  nice 
if  water  and  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon  is  used  in  place  of 
coffee,  and  may  be  eaten  without  cream. — Mrs.  Kate  L. 
Weaver. 

"5 


PINEAPPLE  FLIP. 

One  can  sliced  pineapple,  one  lemon,  one-half  box  Swamp- 
scott  gelatine,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  pint  cream,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  white  of  one  egg.  Soak  gelatine  in  one  cup 
water  five  minutes,  add  juice  of  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and 
sugar;  let  come  to  a  boil,  strain,  set  away  to  jell.  Whip  cream, 
add  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt  and  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  and  gel- 
atine. Beat  thoroughly  before  adding  pineapple;  set  away 
to  chill.    Beat  again  before  serving. — M.  J.  Erskine. 

Holmes  Sells  Best  Horse,  Cow  and   Poultry  Feed  at  Lowest  Prices, 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

One-third  box  gelatine,  put  in  two-thirds  quart  milk;  let 
soak  one  hour.  Put  into  a  dish  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  then 
add  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  two-thirds  cup  sugar ;  let  come  to 
a  boil.  Take  off  stove  and  add  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth ;  add  a  little  salt  and  vanilla. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Feeley. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  marshmallows  cut  in  quarters,  one  cup  wal- 
nuts cut  up ;  one-quarter  cup  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  cream 
and  one-quarter  cup  milk;  beat  sugar,  cream  and  milk  to- 
gether, but  not  too  stiff.  Add  candied  cherries.  Arrange 
mixture  in  layers  and  chill  on  ice  one  hour  before  serving. 
Pretty  served  in  sherbet  glasses  with  cherries  on  top. — Mrs. 
Ralph  D.  Poole. 

Holmes  Sells  Best  Horse,  Cow  and   Poultry  Feed  at  Lowest  Prices. 

DISH  OF  SNOW. 

Soak  one-half  cup  gelatine,  add  one  pint  boiling  water; 
when  cool  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  juice 
of  one  lemon;  beat  one  hour;  put  it  in  a  mould.  Scald  one 
pint  milk,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon cornstarch,  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  cool  put  the 
snow  in  a  glass  dish,  put  the  custard  around  it.  Very  nice. 
— Mrs.  Dudley. 

ii6 


PINEAPPLE  GELATINE. 
One-half  box  Minute  gelatine,  three  cups  boiling  water,  one 
cup  pineapple  juice,  two  cups  sugar,  one  can  sliced  pineapple 
chopped  fine ;  one-half  pint  cream  whipped.    Beat  all  together 
when  the  gelatine  is  partly  set. — Mrs.  Delia  F.  Chamberlain. 

Holmes  Sells  Best  Horse,  Cow  and  Poultry  Feed  at  Lowest  Prices. 

RICE  BLANC  MANGE. 
Into  a  double  boiler  put  three  cupfuls  milk,  pinch  of  salt 
and  scant  one-half  cup  rice  which  has  been  thoroughly 
washed;  cook  this  until  the  milk  is  entirely  absorbed;  then 
add  one-third  box  gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  in  cold 
water.  As  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  one  wine-glass  of  orange 
juice,  with  finally  one-half  pint  cream  whipped  stiff.  Turn 
mixture  into  a  wetted  mould  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  until 
needed.     Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Will  T.  Lewis. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 
Fresh  soft  marshmallows  cut  in  halves;  cover  bottom  of 
dish;  then  layer  of  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces,  then  a  layer 
of  whipped  cream  with  just  a  little  salt  and  sugar  in  it.  Re- 
peat until  dish  is  full  as  you  wish.  If  using  fruit  in  natural 
state,  cut  up  and  cover  with  sugar  and  let  stand  a  while  be- 
fore using.  This  is  a  delicious  dessert  if  one  likes  pineapple. 
— Mrs.  J.  A.  Thurston. 

Holmes  Sells  Best  Horse,  Cow  and  Poultry  Feed  at  Lowest  Prices. 

SNOWBALL  CUSTARD. 
Soak  one-half  package  gelatine  in  one  teacupful  cold  water 
one  hour;  add  one  pint  boiling  water,  stir  until  the  gelatine  is 
all  dissolved.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  put  two  teacupfuls  sugar  into  the  gelatine  water  first, 
then  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  vanilla 
extract  or  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Whip  it 
some  time  until  it  is  all  stiff  and  cold.  Dip  some  small  dishes 
in  cold  water  and  fill  them  and  set  in   a  cold   place;   make   a 

117 


boiled  custard  of  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
pint  milk  and  flavor  with  vanilla  extract.  Now  after  the 
meringue  in  the  glasses  has  stood  about  five  hours,  turn  them 
out  in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  the  custard  around  the  base. — 
Mrs.  J.  F.  Mclntyre. 

A  Self-Filling,  Non-Leakable  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes'. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Take  one-half  box  gelatine,  soak  in  one-half  pint  cold  water ; 
when  dissolved  pour  over  one-half  pint  boiling  water,  add 
juice  of  two  lemons  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  to  a  stifif  froth  with  one-half  cup  sugar  and  pour 
into  gelatine,  stirring  a  little.     Cool  in  a  mould. 

Custard. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one  cup  sugar, 
little  salt;  boil  the  milk,  add  eggs,  sugar  and  flavor. — Mrs. 
George  B.  Holland. 

DATE  TORTE  (German). 
Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  walnuts,  one  cup  dates, 
one  tablespoon  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs 
very  light,  add  sugar;  chop  nut  meats,  cut  dates  in  small 
pieces ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  will  rise  up  very  light 
and  fall  to  about  half  its  thickness  while  in  oven.  Serve  cold 
with  cream. — K.  L.  W. 

A  Self-Filling,  Non-Leal<abie  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes'. 

COFFEE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 
One-half  box  gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one  pint 
cream,  one  pint  milk,  four  eggs  (yolks),  four  eggs  (whites), 
one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla,  one-quarter  cup  black  coffee.  Soak  the  gelatine  in 
the  cold  water,  chill  and  beat  the  cream  with  an  egg  beate,r 
and  set  it  on  ice.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler  and  heat  to  boiling 
point ;  beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar  and  salt ;  pour  hot  milk 
on  to  the  mixture,  stir  thoroughly  and  return  to  double  boiler 
and  cook  two  or  three  minutes  or  just  enough  to  scald  the 

ii8 


egg;  stir  constantly,  add  the  soaked  gelatine,  and  when  dis- 
solved pour  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  add 
vanilla.  Set  into  a  pan  of  ice  water.  Stir  well  and  when 
slightly  thickened  add  the  cold  black  coffee  and  then  the 
cream;  keep  stirring;  when  stiff  enough  to  drop,  pour  into  a 
mould  wet  in  cold  water.  One-half  the  rule  will  make  almost, 
if  not  quite,  a  quart  mould.  Set  on  ice  until  cold;  unmould 
and  put  in  dish;  surround  with  whipped  cream  and  dot  with 
candied  cherries  cut  in  bits. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

A  Self-Filling,  Non-Leakable  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes'. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 

One-quarter  pound  marshmallows ;  cut  them  in  four  pieces ; 
one-half  pint  cream  beaten  stiff,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  tablespoonful  chopped  cherries, 
flavor  with  vanilla;  add  marshmallows  and  chill.  "Cherries 
au  marasquin"  preferred,  S.  S.  Pierce  brand. — Mrs.  James  M. 
Cunningham. 

COFFEE  TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Put  one  pint  of  breakfast  coffee  over  the  fire  in  a  double 
boiler,  the  coffee  left  from  breakfast  will  do  if  it  was  poured 
from  the  grounds  before  it  was  taken  to  the  breakfast  room ; 
when  hot  add  three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  Slade's  tapioca  and 
cook  until  the  tapioca  is  transparent;  beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  add  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  beat  again ;  dilute  with  a  little  of  the  hot  tapioca  and  stir 
into  the  contents  of  the  double  boiler;  when  the  mixture  has 
thickened  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve 
with  cream  very  cold. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Condon. 

A  Self-Filling,  Non-Leakable  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes'. 

PINEAPPLE  TRIFLE. 
One-half  can  grated  pineapple,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  cook 
together ;  dissolve  one-half  package  of  any  flavor  Jell-O  in  one- 
half  pint  boiling  water ;  then  add  the  pineapple,  sugar  and  juice 
of  half  an  orange  to  the  Jell-O  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  it 
begins  to  thicken  add  one-half  pint  cream  whipped  stiff.  Stir 
thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  mould  to  harden. — E.  F.  W. 

119 


BANANA  AND  TAPIOCA  CHARLOTTE. 
Cook  one-third  cup  Slade's  tapioca  in  one  pint  boiling  water 
until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  transparent;  add  one  cup 
banana  pulp  (three  or  four  bananas  peeled  and  pressed 
through  a  potato  ricer  or  sieve),  one-quarter  cup  lemon  juice 
and  one  cup  sugar ;  when  the  mixture  is  thoroughly  scalded 
remove  it  from  the  fire  and  fold  into  it  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Line  a  glass  serving  dish  with  lady  fingers  or 
macaroons  and  turn  the  mixture  into  it;  take  one-quarter  cup 
milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cup  thick 
cream  and  beat  until  stiff,  with  an  egg  beater.  Use  the  cream 
as  a  garnish  for  the  top  of  the  charlotte.  A  pastry  bag  and 
rose  tube  will  be  found  convenient  in  garnishing  with  whip- 
ped cream. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Condon. 

Holmes'  Peerless  Coal   Pleases  Particular  People. 

AMBER  CLEAR  COFFEE  JELLY. 
Soak  one  envelope  "Plymouth  Rock  White  Phosphated  Gel- 
atine" in  one  cup  cold  water  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  pints  of  hot 
coffee  made  in  this  way: — Break  one  egg  into  a  cup,  hold  it 
under  cold  water  faucet  and  beat,  letting  water  drop  until  there 
is  about  as  much  water  as  tgg.  Then  measure  three  large 
tablespoonfuls  coffee  and  mix  with  enough  of  the  tgg  to 
moisten  thoroughly  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes;  then  pour 
enough  boiling  water  on  for  the  desired  quantity.  Let  boil 
three  minutes ;  then  shake  a  tiny  bit  of  salt  in  the  pot  and  dash 
in  a  little  cold  water,  and  after  standing  ten  minutes  pour 
through  a  bit  of  cheesecloth  on  to  the  gelatine  and  sugar. 
Cool  in  a  mould.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Kate  L. 
Weaver. 

Holmes'   Peerless  Coal   Pleases   Particular  People. 

ORANGE  CHARLOTTE. 
One-third  box  gelatine,  one-third  cup  cold  water,  one-third 
cup  boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup 
orange  juice  and  pulp,  whites  of  three  eggs.    Soak  the  gelatine 


in  cold  water  until  soft;  add  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and 
lemon  juice;  strain  and  add  the  orange  juice  and  pulp  and  a 
little  of  the  grated  rind.  Cool  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  when 
it  begins  to  harden,  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  beat  together  till  stiff  enough  to  drop.  Pour  into  the 
mould.  Whipped  cream  may  be  piled  on  the  top  after  remov- 
ing from  the  mould.  One  cup  chopped  nut  meats  added  with 
juice  and  pulp  of  the  orange  is  very  nice. — Mrs.  Lucius  Leach, 

Holmes'   Peerless  Coal   Pleases   Particular  People. 

PINEAPPLE  SOUFFLE. 
To  one  large  cup  grated  pineapple  add  three-quarters  cup 
sugar,  the  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon  and  cook  until  reduced 
and  thick.  To  the  whites  of  five  eggs  add  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar,  beat  until  dry,  then  beat  gradually  into 
the  cold  pineapple  mixture.  Turn  into  a  two  quart  melon 
mould  that  has  been  well  buttered  and  dredged  with  sugar.  Set 
into  a  dish  on  several  folds  of  paper,  surround  with  boiling 
water  and  let  cook  about  one-half  hour.  The  water  must  not 
boil  during  the  cooking.  Turn  from  the  mould,  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Harrison. 

STRAWBERRY  WHIP. 
Take  one  and  one-quarter  cups  strawberries  and  one  cup 
white  sugar  (powdered  is  best)  and  the  white  of  one  egg. 
Mash  or  squeeze  the  berries  through  one  of  the  wire  potato 
mashers.  Then  beat  the  berries,  sugar  and  white  of  egg  until 
stiff  enough  to  hold  in  shape. — Nellie  Lyons. 

Holmes'   Peerless  Coal   Pleases   Particular   People. 

CODDLED  APPLES. 
Pare  and  core  a  dozen  best  apples.  Set  in  kettle  not 
crowded.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls  cold  water,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  butter,  one  teacup  sugar,  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. Stew  until  tender.  Let  remain  in  kettle  until  cold. 
Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Charles  Tully. 


LEMON  JELLY.' 

Soak  one-half  box  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water 
twenty  minutes ;  pour  over  two  and  one-half  cups  boiling 
water;  add  one  cup  sugar  and  one-hdf  cup  lemon  juice;  strain 
and  pour  into  mould. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Gibbs. 


e 


What  a  virtue  there 
is  in  pure  COAL. 
~^  There  should  be 
nothing  in  coal  but  coal. 
Coal  should  burn,  resolve 
itself  into  heat  and  ashes. 
Our  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin  Coal  bums;  kindles 
quickly ;  makes  a  hot  fire ; 
holds  fire  well,  and  all 
burns  to  ashes.  It  doesn't 
pay  to  sift  the  ashes,  be- 
cause there  is  no  coal  in 
them.  This  saves  time  and 
money  and  avoids  a  dirty, 
disagreeable  job. 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


123 


R' 

n 


ABYDURE     riEAN 
'AGSIEERLESSLOAL 


31 


tm  thncntmn  rnttatata 


in  knntutng  fn^rg- 
tl|ttt5  about  BomFtl|tnj9 
unh  Homjftlytng  about 
?tt^rytt|tuj5. 

The  something  that  you  need  to 
know  about  coal  for  the  cook  stove 
(if  you  haven't  already  learned  it)  is 
that  our  Special  Soft  Shamokin  Stove 
Coal  cannot  be  excelled  as  a  fuel  for 
cooking  stoves.  Ask  the  opinion  of 
any  lady  who  ever  used  it. 

THIS  IS  HOLMES'  Corp. 

58  MAIN  ST.  ENTERPRISE  BLDG. 


t ABYDURE     riEAN 
AGSlEERlESStOAL 


124 


Ices,  Ice  Cream,  E^tc. 

PLAIN  ICE  CREAM. 
One  pint  milk,  one  pint  cream,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  two 
scant  tablespoons  flour,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  flavoring.  Boil  the  milk  and  cream,  reserving  one-quarter 
cup  milk.  Mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt  thoroughly.  Beat  the 
eggs  until  light,  add  the  cold  milk  and  sugar  mixture,  and 
when  well  mixed  add  the  boiling  milk.  Turn  back  into  the 
double  boiler  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Stir  constantly  until 
smooth,  and  after  that  occasionally.  Strain  through  a  gravy 
strainer,  add  more  sugar  if  needed,  and  when  cold  add  the 
flavoring.  Freeze  as  usual.  To  above  add  just  before  freez- 
ing, from  one  to  two  tablespoonfuls  vanilla  according  to 
strength,  and  you  have  vanilla  ice  cream. — Mrs.  B.  L.  Simp- 
son. 

Postcard  Albums,  All   Prices,   at  Holmes'. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE. 
Mash  one  box  strawberries  through  a  fine  sieve ;  add  one 
cup  powdered  sugar.  Stir  on  ice  until  very  cold ;  add  one  pint 
thick  cream  beaten  with  a  Dover  egg  beater ;  put  in  mould,  set 
in  pail  of  ice  and  salt  (equal  quantities)  and  stand  three  hours 
without  stirring.  Serve  in  slices  or  in  pretty  glasses. — Mrs. 
C.  C.  Merritt. 

Postcard  Albums,   Ail   Prices,  at  Holmes'. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE. 
One  pint  thick  cream,  two-thirds  cup  powdered  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  black  coffee ;  beat  this  mixture  until  it  is  solid  to  the 
bottom  of  the  bowl.  Turn  into  a  mould  lined  with  paper;  fill 
the  mould  to  overflow.  Spread  a  paper  over  the  top  of  the 
cream ;  fit  the  cover  in  place,  and  pack  in  equal  measures  of 
ice  and  salt.  Let  stand  between  two  and  three  hours.  Serve 
in  slices  or  in  tall  glasses  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on 
top. — Mrs.  Walter  Bradford. 

I2S 


MAPLE  PARFAIT. 
One  pint  thick  cream,  one-half  pint  maple  syrup.    Beat  stiff 
and  put  in  mould.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  of  equal  quantities,  for 
three  hours. — Jennie  Jefferson. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 
One  quart  milk,  one  pint  sugar,  juice  of  three  lemeons.    Mix 
sugar  and  lemon  juice;  add  milk,  and    freeze    at    once. — M. 
A.  C. 

Holmes  Doesn't  Claim  His  Coal  to  Be  the  Best  on  Earth.     H^s  Customers 
Make  the  Claim,  and  He  Admits  It's  True. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 
Boil  one  quart  water  and  one  pint  sugar  rapidly  for  twenty 
minutes,  add  one  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine  that  has  been 
dissolved  in  one-quarter  cup  of  cold  water  and  strain  into  a 
large  pitcher.  When  cold  add  one  scant  pint  of  orange  juice, 
also  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  freeze.  If  the  freezer  is  turned 
rapidly  and  continuously  until  the  mixture  is  hard,  the  result 
will  be  a  smooth  ice,  creamy  in  texture. — Mrs.  Nora  Buckley. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 
One  can  pineapple  or  one  pint  of  fresh  fruit,  one  pint  sugar 
(scant),  one  pint  boiling  water  turned  on  the  sugar  to  dis- 
solve it;  one  tablespoonful  gelatine  dissolved  in  one-half  cup 
boiling  water.  When  dissolved  add  this  to  the  sugar  and 
water.  Cut  the  eyes  from  the  fruit  and  chop  it  very  fine ;  add 
this  to  the  juice  from  the  can.  If  fresh  pineapple  is  used,  it 
must  be  chopped  and  covered  with  sugar  over  night  to  extract 
the  juice. — Mrs.  Granfville  Hunt. 

Holmes  Doesn't  Claim  His  Coal  to  Be  the  Best  on  Earth.     His  Customers 
Make  the  Claim,  and   He  Admits  It's  True. 

MAPLE  ICE  CREAM. 
One  cup  thick  maple  syrup,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  boils ;  strain  and  set  to 
cool ;  beat  one  pint  of  cream,  add  the  beaten   whites   of   four 
eggs ;  add  the  syrup  and  freeze. — E.  F.  IV. 

126 


BANANA  ICE  CREAM. 
Peel  six  ripe  bananas,  split  and  remove  the  seeds  and  dark 
portion  in  the  centre ;  rub  the  pulp  through  a  sieve ;  add  to  it 
two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  one  saltspoonful  salt.  Heat 
one  quart  of  thin  cream  in  a  double  boiler  until  scalding  hot; 
melt  one  cup  sugar  in  it,  and  when  cold  combine  mixtures  and 
freeze. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Baldwin,  Jr. 

Holmes  Doesn't  Claim  His  Coal  to  Be  the  Best  on   Earth.     His  Customers 
Make  the  Claim,  and  He  Admits  It's  True. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 
Sprinkle  two  cups  sugar  over  two  quarts  of  strawberries; 
mash  them  and  let  them  stand  half  an  hour  or  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Turn  the  berries  into  a  large  square  of  cheese 
cloth  which  has  been  placed  over  a  bowl.  Gather  up  the  edges 
of  the  cloth,  twist  them  and  squeeze  as  long  as  any  juice  or 
pulp  will  come.  Then  empty  the  pulp  and  seeds  left  in  the 
cloth  into  a  pan  and  pour  on  gradually  about  one  pint  milk; 
mix  it  well  with  the  pulp,  until  the  pulp  is  separated  from  the 
seeds.  Squeeze  again  until  perfectly  dry.  There  should  be 
nothing  left  in  the  cloth  save  a  ball  of  seeds.  The  pulp  will 
thicken  the  milk,  and  it  is  much  nicer  than  the  juice  alone. 
Add  to  this  pulpy  juice  as  much  cream  as  you  may  have,  from 
one  cup  to  three  pints,  and  sugar  to  make  it  very  sweet.  This 
cream  should  be  scalded  and  cooled.  Freeze  as  usual.  This 
is  a  great  improvement  over  that  made  by  simply  mashing  the 
fruit,  where  the  presence  of  the  seeds  is  objectionable. — Mrs. 
F.  A.  Besse. 

Holmes  Doesn't  Claim  His  Coal  to  Be  the  Best  on  Earth.     His  Customers 
Mal<e  the  Claim,  and   He  Admits  It's  True. 

FROZEN  PUDDING  (Excellent). 
Two  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch  boiled  in  one  quart  of  milk  in 
double  boiler  one  hour;  before  taking  from  the  stove  add  one 
pint  sugar,  four  eggs  well  beaten.  When  cold  add  one  quart 
milk  and  a  jar  of  cream ;  ten  cents'  worth  candied  cherries  and 
ten  cents'  worth  candied  pineapple  soaked  in  rum  over  night. 
Freeze. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Bryant. 

127 


ICED  BISCUITS. 

Boil  together  one  cup  sugar  and  one-quarter  cup  water  five 
minutes.  Pour  onto  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
cook  until  thickened.  Beat  until  cold,  add  one  pint  stiffly 
beaten  cream,  one  tablespoonful  vanilla,  one  teaspoon  almond 
extract,  and  color  pale  green ;  then  add  one-quarter  pound 
chopped  pistachio  nuts.  Beat  until  stiff  one  cup  cream,  add 
one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  one 
cup  strawberry  puree.  Half  fill  a  brick  mould  with  first  mix- 
ture, completely  fill  with  second  mixture,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  pack  in  equal  parts,  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  three 
hours.  Remove  from  mould  and  serve  with  sugar  wafers. — 
Mrs.  J.  Q.  Ford, 

Free  Lead  Pencils  to  All  Cash  With  Order  Coal  Customers  at  58  Main  St 

COFFEE  FRAPPE. 

To  one  quart  of  strong  and  very  clear  coffee  chilled,  add 
three-quarters  cup  sugar  and  turn  into  a  freezer  packed  as  for 
ice  cream.  Turn  the  crank  until  the  mixture  is  half  frozen. 
Serve  in  sherbet  cups,  either  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 
— Ada  S.  Lewis. 

CAFE  FRAPPE. 

Three  cups  coffee,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cream,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  salt.  Freeze  to  consistency  of  mush.  Serve 
in  glasses  with  whipped  cream  on  top. — Ruth  Rogers. 

Free  Lead  Pencils  to  All  Cash  With  Order  Coal  Customers  at  58  Main  St. 

BISCUIT  TORTONI. 

To  fill  three  quart  freezer,  allow  one  quart  cream,  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla,  one-half  pound  French  cherries  or  candied,  one 
dozen  macaroons  chopped,  one  cup  almonds  chopped  after 
being  blanched.  Whip  cream  and  stand  on  ice  until 
needed ;  separate  eggs  and  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  yolks 
to  smooth  cream ;  boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  syrup 

128 


will  form  a  hair ;  pour  syrup  slowly  over  beaten  whites,  whisk- 
ing rapidly  all  of  the  time ;  add  yolks  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
for  ten  minutes,  stirring.  Stand  aside  to  become  cool.  Soak 
cherries  in  sherry  wine ;  add  cherries,  almonds  and  macaroons 
to  cold  mixture,  which  should  be  thick;  then  stir  in  whipped 
cream  and  lastly  vanilla.  Put  in  melon  mould  and  pack  in  ice 
and  salt  from  four  to  six  hours. — Mrs.  Heman  Eldredge. 

Free  Lead  Pencils  to  All  Cash  With  Order  Coal  Customers  at  553  Main  St. 

PISTACHIO  ICE  CREAM. 
One  quart  thin  cream,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  vanilla,  one  teaspoon  almond  extract ;  color  Burnett's 
Leaf  Green  or  Spinach. 

SULTANA  ROLL. 

Line  one  pound  baking  powder  boxes  with  pistachio  ice 
cream ;  sprinkle  with  sultana  raisins  which  have  been  soaked 
in  brandy  one  hour.  Fill  centres  with  beaten  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla;  cover  with  pistachio  cream;  pack 
in  equal  quantities  of  ice  and  salt  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Serve  with 

Claret  Sauce. — Boil  one  cupful  sugar  with  one-quarter  cup- 
ful water  eight  minutes ;  cool  slightly  and  add  one-third  cup 
claret. — Clara  H.  Bartlett. 

Free  Lead  Pencils  to  All  Cash  With  Order  Coal  Customers  at  58  Main  St. 

FLUFFY  RUFFLES  ICE  CREAM. 
For  twenty-four  portions.  One  quart  milk,  one  pint  heavy 
cream,  two  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  ex- 
tract, one-half  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  two  teaspoons 
powdered  gelatine.  Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler  with  the 
sugar  and  gelatine ;  then  stir  fifteen  minutes ;  take  from  fire, 
add  extracts,  cool,  then  add  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and 
cream ;  freeze  as  usual  for  any  ice  cream ;  serve  in  cone  shapes 
with,  a  crushed  strawberry  on  the  top.  Accompany  with  lady 
fingers.     Use  glass  service. — Herbert  L.  Aldridge. 

129 


GRAPE  FRUIT  SHERBET— GOLF  CLUB. 
For  thirty-two  portions  or  two  gallons.  One  gallon  boil- 
ing water,  sixteen  small,  smooth  grape  fruit,  six  pounds  gran- 
ulated sugar,  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Cut  fruit  in  equal  halves, 
being  careful  to  preserve  the  shells ;  scoop  out  the  pulp  and 
juice  into  colander,  set  over  bowl  and  squeeze  or  press  all  juice 
into  bowl.  Add  the  sugar  to  boiling  water,  boil  thirty  minutes, 
cool  and  add  the  fruit  juice  and  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Freeze  as  for  any  ice  cream,  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  freezer  used,  and  let  stand  at  least  two  hours  before 
serving.  Serve  in  the  half  shells  accompanied  by  Nabisco 
wafers.  Orange  sherbet  may  be  made  same  way  with  twelve 
oranges  and  four  lemons  instead  of  grape  fruit.  Serve  in 
oransfe  shells. — Herbert  L.  Aldrido-e. 


130 


You   Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


131 


ai> 


^ 


aD 


^ 


A  Pound  of 

According  to  some  statistically  inclined 
person,  has  within  it  dynamic  power 
equivalent  to  the  work  of  one  man  for 
one  day — three  tons  representing  20 
years  of  hard  work.  The  coal  must, 
of  course,  be  skilfully  used. 

You  cannot  throw  any  kind  of  coal 
into  any  kind  of  a  stove  and  get  the 
greatest  benefit.  The  woman  who 
gets  the  best  results  out  of  a  ton  of 
coal  can  save  money  by  using  Holmes' 
Special  Soft  Shamokin  for  cooking. 
Have  you  tried  it?       jg  jyj^jpj  gj^ 


C|?^ 


^ 


132 


Pies. 

TARTS. 
Beat  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  lard,  white  of  one 
egg,  one  teaspoon  sugar  together  until  creamy;  then  add 
five  tablespoonfuls  cold  water;  into  one  cup  flour  mix  one 
good  teaspoonful  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful  salt ;  add 
this  to  first  mixture  and  as  much  more  flour  as  it  requires  to 
knead.  Pat  and  roll  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds  with  a 
small  cookie  cutter.  With  a  thimble  or  small  end  of  a  pastry 
tube,  cut  out  six  small  rounds  from  half  of  the  rounds.  Put 
the  rounds  with  holes  in  them  on  the  plain  rounds  and  bake. 
When  cold  separate  and  spread  plain  rounds  with  raspberry 
jam  (or  any  other  jam  or  jelly)  and  replace  round  with  the 
holes. — Clara  H.  Bartlett. 

A    Better,    Purer    Coal    for   the    Cook    Stove    Than    Holmes'    Special    Soft 
Shamokin  Never  Came  Out  of  the  Ground. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

Pastry: — One  cup  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard,  one  level 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  enough  cold  water  to 
make  a  stiff  dough. 

Filling: — One  quart  cranberries,  cook  and  strain;  add  two 
cups  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Line  plate  as  for  custard  pie ;  bake 
with  one  crust. 

Frosting. — Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add 
two  tablespoons  of  fine  sugar,  put  in  oven  and  brown. — Mrs. 
Alice  O.  Hamblett. 

A    Better,    Purer    Coal    for    the    Cook    Stove    Than    Holmes'    Special    Soft 
Shamokin  Never  Came  Out  of  the  Ground. 

FIG  PIES. 
One  pound  figs  chopped  fine  and  boiled  in  enough  water 
to  cover  until  soft;  one-half  pound  raisins,  chopped,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg.    This  makes  three 
pies. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Bryant. 


FIG  PIE. 
Chop  one  pound  figs  and  stew  until  soft  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover;  chop  one-half  pound  raisins,  add  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one 
egg,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  in  two  crusts.  This 
makes  three  pies. — Mrs.  D.  K.  Carpenter. 

Best  Self- Filling  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes',  58  IMaIn  St. 

SQUASH  PIE. 
Cream  together  one  tablespoonful  butter  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar ;  add  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  tablespoonful 
maple  syrup,  one-half  cup  sifted  squash,  cinnamon  and  ginger 
to  taste ;  one  pint  rich  milk. — Mrs.  Marcus  Hall. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

One  can  squash,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon  'beaten  to- 
gether ;  pinch  of  salt,  four  eggs,  one  quart  and  one-half  pint 
milk,  one-half  tablespoon  flour;  beat  up  in  a  little  milk  one 
cracker  rolled  fine.  This  makes  four  pies. — Mrs.  Margaret 
Doherty. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

One  cup  cranberries,  one-half  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  piece  of 
butter.— Mr.y.  7.  N.  Ellis. 

Best  Self-Filling  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes',  58  IVIain   St. 

CREAM  PIE. 
Line  a  deep  plate  with  a  good  paste,  pricking  it  in  several 
places  with  a  fork  to  let  the  air  out  and  prevent  blisters.  Bake 
a  delicate  brown.  Put  one  cup  milk  in  a  double  boiler  to  scald. 
Stir  together  one-half  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, small  half  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  cold  milk  and  the 
yolks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Add  the  mixture  to  the  milk 
when  it  boils.  Stir  until  it  thickens  and  cook  for  a  few  min- 
utes ;  then  flavor  with  vanilla.  Fill  crust  with  mixture.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
sugar  and  spread  on  top  of  the  pie,  then  brown  in  oven. — Mrs. 
F.  B.  Leonard. 

134 


RHUBARB  PIE. 
Mix  two  cups  of  rhubarb    cut   in    small    pieces    with    one 
cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Use 
whites  of  eggs  for  frosting. — Mrs.  G.  R.  Washburn. 

LEMON  PIE. 
One  cup  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  flour  mixed  together 
dry;  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
one  cup  water,  one  tablespoonful  milk  in  the  water.  Bake  with 
one  crust  and  frost  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Skinner. 

Best  Self-Filling  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

LEMON  PIE. 
Cut  a  slice  of  bread  one  inch  thick  from  a  loaf  of  bread  and 
trim  off  the  crust,  using  only  the  soft  part.  Place  this  in  a 
bowl,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of 
a  small  o^gg  and  one  cup  of  boiUng  water.  Beat  until  smooth, 
then  add  one  cup  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lem- 
on, and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  all  together 
and  pour  into  deep  pie  plate  lined  with  a  rich  crust.  When 
done,  cool  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Put  them  on  a  large  dinner  plate,  beat  with  a  silver 
knife  until  stiflf  and  dry;  beat  in  one-half  tablespoon  lemon 
juice,  add  slowly  three  level  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar 
(powdered  is  better)  ;  beat  until  stiff,  flavor  with  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  or  vanilla.  Pour  over  top  of  pie.  Set  in  a  moderate 
oven  on  an  inverted  pan  and  let  it  brown,  which  will  be  in  ten 
minutes. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

Best  Self-Filling  Fountain  Pen  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

EXCELLENT  LEMON  PIE. 
Rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  two  large 
dessertspoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  two  large  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Bake  crust  first,  then  cook  the  lemon  mixture  in  dou- 
ble boiler.  When  cold  put  into  the  crust ;  then  beat  the  whites 
with  two  spoonfuls  sugar  and  put  on  top  of  pie  and  brown  in 
the  oven. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Fletcher. 

^3S 


LEMON  PIE. 
One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour  stirred  well  together ; 
pour  over  one  and  one-half  cups  boiling  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  the  lumps  disappear;  add  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  large  or  two  small  lemons, 
three  eggs  well  beaten.  To  be  made  with  two  crusts.  This 
is  excellent. — Mrs.  James  P.  Donovan. 

Length  of  Public  Service  Is  the  Best  Guarantee  of  Good  Faith  and 
Business  Integrity,  This  Is  Holmes'  Coal  Business;  Has  Been  Under 
the  Present  Management  Since  1873. 

LEMON  PIE. 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  one  teaspoon  melted 
butter,  one  cup  milk,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  added 
last.  Bake  with  one  crust  in  rather  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Wm.  H. 
Cook,  Whitman,  Mrs.  Margaret  Doherty. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  reserving  whites  for  frosting;  two 
tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  one  and  one-third  cups  sugar, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  cups  milk,  pinch  of 
salt.    Bake  with  one  rich  crust. 

Frosting: — Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar;  after  pie  is  baked,  cover  with  frosting 
and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  T.  Gushing. 

Length  of  Public  Service  Is  the  Best  Guarantee  of  Good  Faith  and 
Business  Integrity.  This  Is  Holmes'  Coal  Business;  Has  Been  Under 
the  Present  Management  Since  1873. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE. 
Two  quarts  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  scald  and  drain  off; 
one  cup  suet  chopped,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one  half  cup 
vinegar,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  one-half  pound  raisins,  one- 
half  teaspoon  clove,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Put  on  stove  and  cook.  This  makes  four  pies. — Mrs.  Allie  V. 
Packard. 

136 


PRUNE  PIE. 

Line  a  plate  with  a  rich  paste ;  turn  into  it  one  pint  of 
stewed  and  sifted  prunes,  sweetened  slightly.  Beat  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  fine  soft  bread  crumbs  and  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  well  beaten.  Add  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Spread  this  mixture  over  the  prunes  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. — Mrs.  Mae  E.  Simpson. 

Length  of  Public  Service  Is  the  Best  Guarantee  of  Good  Faith  and 
Business  Integrity.  This  Is  Holmes'  Coal  Business;  Has  Been  Under 
the  Present  Management  Since  1873. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Three  bowls  of  chopped  meat,  six  bowls  of  chopped  apples ; 
if  there  is  a  little  more  apple,  put  it  in,  it  will  no  no  harm; 
two  bowls  of  sugar,  one  bowl  molasses,  one  bowl  boiled  cider 
or  vinegar,  one  bowl  of  good  strong  coffee  and  be  sure  and 
put  in  the  liquor  the  meat  was  boiled  in,  and  most  if  not  all  of 
the  fat ;  also  one  level  dessertspoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  all- 
spice, cinnamon  and  mace;  grate  one  whole  nutmeg;  juice  and 
rind  of  one  lemon  or  one  tablespoon  of  essence  of  lemon ;  one 
bowl  each  of  currants  and  seeded  raisins. — Mrs.  S.  H.  Eaton. 

Length  of  Public  Service  Is  the  Best  Guarantee  of  Good  Faith  and 
Business  Integiity.  This  Is  Holmes'  Coal  Business;  Has  Been  Under 
the  Present  Management  Since  1873. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Four  pounds  lean  corned  beef,  one  peck  of  apples,  two 
pounds  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one-half  pound  citron, 
one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
cloves,  one  teaspoon  salt,  three  cups  sugar,  one  quart  sweet 
cider,  one  small  piece  of  orange  peel,  one  small  piece  of  lemon 
peel ;  add  two  cups  chopped  apple  to  one  cup  chopped  meat 
and  chop  raisins,  currants,  citron,  lemon  and  orange  peel; 
adding  the  spices.  Cook  slowly  four  or  five  hours  and  bottle. 
This  meat  will  keep  for  years. — Mrs.  Catherine  Hayes. 

137 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


138 


2^11?  n  ftgfi  Qvnm 
Jtltl  0tt  tljtatte  all 
Oloal  tutu  bt  nixkt ! 

^  A  good  appearance  counts 
for  something. 

^  Good  performance  counts 
for  more. 

^  Bright  clean  coal  that  bums 
splendidly  will  make  any 
cook  happy. 

^  We  try  to  make  people 
happy. 

^  Our  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin  Coal  will  help  do  it. 
^  No  sifting  of  ashes,  little 
dirt,  and  less  slate. 


139 


Gingerbread,  Doughnuts,  Cookies,  £tc. 

DELICIOUS  GINGERBREAD. 
One  cup  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses, 
four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  even  teaspoon  salt,  one 
dessertspoonful  cinnamon,  and  one  teaspoon  of  mixed  spices. 
Stir  and  rub  well  together,  then  add  one  egg  well  beaten  and 
one  cup  real  sour  milk.  Then  sift  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda 
with  two  cups  flour  and  sift  it  into  the  other  mixture  and  beat 
about  two  minutes.  Turn  it  into  a  nine  by  nine  inch  tin,  sprin- 
kle sugar  over  the  top  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  This  makes  a  nice  dessert  served  with  cottage  or  cream 
cheese,  unsalted  butter  balls  or  thick  cream. — Mrs.  M.  E. 
Mowry. 

Husbands  Never  Make  Mistakes  When  They  Order  Their  Coal  of  Holmes, 
Regardless   of   Their   Wife's   Opinion    of   Them   on    Other    Matters. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 
Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
sifted  into  three  cups  flour ;  one  tablespoon  yellow  ginger, 
salt.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  After  it  is  removed  from  the 
oven,  sift  sugar  on  top. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Gray. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 
Stir  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  butter  or  lard,  one-fourth  cup 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  cooking  molasses,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  one-half  teaspoon  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Beat  all  thoroughly  together,  then  add  two  small  eggs  or  one 
large  one,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately.  Beat  into 
this  one  cup  sifted  flour,  then  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  water,  one  more  cup  sifted  flour.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifty  minutes.  Sour  milk  makes  it 
lighter. — Mrs.  L.  Crocker. 

Husbands  Never  Make  Mistakes  When  They  Order  Their  Coal  of  Holmes, 
Regardless   of   Their   Wife's   Opinion    of   Them   on    Other    Matters. 

140 


GINGERBREAD. 

One  Qgg,  one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  ginger,  one  tea- 
spoon cinnamon  (scant),  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  cup  hot 
water,  pinch  of  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  flour  to  make  a 
batter. — Mrs.  Lena  M.  Shcmf. 

MOLASSES  DROP  CAKES. 

One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  one  cup  hot  water,  one  egg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  four  cups  flour. 
Makes  twenty-four. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Wood. 

Husbands  Never  Make  Mistakes  When  They  Order  Their  Coal  of  Holmes 
Regardless  of  Their  Wife's  Opinion   of  Them  on    Other   Matters. 

EASY  COOKIES. 
Two  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  seven-eighths 
cup  sour  milk,  four  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  two-thirds  teaspoon 
soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  nutmeg,  one  cup 
chopped  raisins,  one  cup  walnuts.  Mix  as  for  cookies  and 
spread  in  a  large  cooking  pan  in  one  sheet ;  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  quite  a  quick  oven ;  let  the  cake  cool 
and  cut  in  small  squares.  Fine  for  children. — Mrs.  E.  H. 
Keith. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup 
sour  milk,  one  level  teaspoonful  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  vanilla 
and  orange  extract. — Mrs.  I.  B.  Shaw. 

Husbands  Never  Make  Mistakes  When  They  Order  Their  Coal  of  Holmes, 
Regardless   of   Their   Wife's   Opinion    of   Them   on    Other    Matters. 

SUGAR   COOKIES. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  butter, 
three  cups  pastry  flour,  four  eggs,  mace,  vanilla,  one  teaspoon- 
ful cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda ;  add  more  flour 
and  roll  very  thin.    Very  nice. — Mrs.  W.  H.  French. 

141 


SUGAR  COOKIES. 
One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour. 
— Mrs.  D.  K.  Carpenter. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 
One-half  cup  butter  and  one-half  cup  sugar  creamed;  two 
tablespoons  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  soda,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract, 
one  teaspoon  carraway  seeds;  flour  to  roll  very  thin.  Pastry 
flour  is  used. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Gray. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Write  With  or  On,  0  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

RICH  JUMBLES. 
One  and  one-half  cups  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  milk,  a  little  mace,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda,  flour  to  make  into  a  soft  dough;  roll  out  and 
cut  with  a  small  doughnut  cutter,  not  too  thin ;  delicious ;  will 
keep  indefinitely. — Eloise  D.  Harris,  Melrose. 

SURPRISE  COOKIES. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  milk, 
two  eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  flour  to 
roll. 

One  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup  sugar; 
cook  these  until  soft;  then  chop  and  let  cool. 

Cut  out  the  cookies  and  spread  thinly  with  the  raisins,  then 
put  one  on  top ;  pinch  together ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs. 
George  Howard. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Write  With  or  On,  C  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

CREAM  COOKIES. 
Two-thirds  cup  sour  cream,  add  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
soda  to  cream ;  one-half  cup  butter,  one  large  cup  sugar,  one 
tgg,  a  little    salt,    pastry    flour.      Mix   thick  enough  to   roll. 
Vanilla  if  liked. — Mrs.  Jessie  Thomas. 

142 


HERMITS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
chopped  raisins,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar, 
one  teaspoon  saleratus,  one  teaspoon  clove,  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg; dissolve  soda  in  one-half  cup  milk.  Flour  to  handle; 
after  rolling  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Hot  oven. — Mrs.  George 
A.  Monk. 

HERMITS  (Very  Nice). 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon 
clove,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg,  two  cups  raisins  chopped 
very  fine.    Flour  to  roll. — Mrs.  Galen  K.  Tyler. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Write  With  or  On,  0  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

SURPRISE  COOKIES. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lard  mixed  with  salt, 
nutmeg  and  extract,  one-half  cup  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve 
one-half  teaspoon  soda.   Flour  not  too  stiff. 

Filling: — One  cup  chopped  raisins  (seeded),  one-half  cup 
cold  water,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  salt.  Boil 
until  smooth  and  thick. — Mrs.  Bertram  F.  Fales,  Attleboro. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 
One  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  butter,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
teaspoonful  soda,  one  teasponful  vanilla,  a  little  salt  and  flour 
enough  to  roll  thin. — Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Cook,  Whitman. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Write  With  or  On,  C  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 
One  and  one-third  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one- 
third  cup  lard,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar  (level),  one  full  teaspoon  soda,  salt,  vanilla 
or  any  flavor  you  like ;  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll ;  car- 
raway  seeds  in  a  part  if  you  like. — Mrs.  Fred  Park. 

143 


MOLASSES  COOKIES. 
One  egg,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
shortening  (one-half  butter  and  one-half  lard),  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  flour  to  roll ;  roll  thin. 
— Mrs.  Fred  Park. 

FINE  MOLASSES  COOKIES. 
Two  cups  molasses,  one  heaping  teaspoon  soda  beaten  into 
molasses;  one  cup  soft  lard,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  six  cups  pastry  flour;  use  all  the  flour.     Roll 
very  thin  and  bake  quickly. — Marion  Thatcher  Rankin. 

The    Husband    Should    Be    a    Silent    Partner    in    the    Domestic    Firm.      The 
Wife   Uses  the  Coai,  Wants  the   Best,   and   This   Is   Holmes'. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 
Cream  together  one-half  cup  butter  and  one  tablespoonful 
lard;  add  one  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  two  ounces  chocolate  melted ;  then  add  one 
well  beaten  egg  and  one-half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  milk;  stir  in  two  and  one-half  cups  flour;  roll 
thin  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  Edith  G.  O'Hayre. 

OATMEAL  WAFERS. 
Two  cups  quaker  oats,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  well  beaten, 
one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  almond  flavoring.  Bake  on  buttered  and  floured 
tins  in  a  moderate  oven,  one  small  teaspoon  to  a  cooky. — 
Jennie  L.  Palmer. 

The    Husband    Should    Be    a    Silent    Partner    in    the    Domestic    Firm.      The 
Wife   Uses   the  Coal,  Wants  the    Best,   and   This   Is   Holmes'. 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 
One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  butter, 
one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  ginger ;  one-half  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants. 
Mix  soft  as  can  be  rolled.  Will  keep  several  months. — Eleanor 
Belcher,  Holhrook. 

144 


POTATO  DOUGHNUTS. 

Three  large  potatoes  mashed,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one 
cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  ginger,  a  little  salt,  two  eggs 
beat  in  a  cup,  then  fill  cup  with  milk;  one  heaping  teaspoon 
baking  powder.     Flour  enough  to  roll. — "C." 

GRANDMA  MINZY'S  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  egg,  one  scant  cup  flour,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg, 
bread  flour  enough  to  handle. — Ella  Minzy. 

The    Husband    Should    Be    a    Silent    Partner    in    the    Domestic    Firm.     The 
Wife   Uses  the  Coal,  Wants  the   Best,   and   This   Is  Holmes'. 

DOUGHNUTS    (Fine). 

Dissolve  one  cup  sugar  in  one  cup  rich  milk  (I  use  the  top 
of  a  jar)  ;  now  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  one  level  teaspoonful 
salt;  into  a  teacup  of  flour  mix  two  level  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  add  this  to  first  mixture,  then  add  enough  more  flour 
to  roll. — Mrs.  Florence  Kennedy. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  a  little  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  salt,  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Bread  flour  enough 
to  roll. — Mrs.  Walter  Bradford. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  add  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla,  a  little  nutmeg  and  salt,  beat  well ;  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour. 
I  use  one-half  pastry  and  one-half  bread  flour,  from  three  to 
four  cups.    Do  not  mix  too  stiff. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Knight. 

The    Husband   Should    Be   a   Silent   Partner   in    the    Domestic    Firm.     The 
Wife   Uses  the  Coal,  Wants  the    Best,   and   This   Is   Holmes'. 


LADY  FINGERS. 

Beat  to  a  cream  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one-half  pound  powdered 
sugar;  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  lightly  mix  in  one-fourth 
pound  sifted  flour;  quickly  mix  these  two  batters  together. 
Place  in  heavy  paper  cone  and  squeeze  out  upon  buttered  tin 
in  four-inch  lengths.  Bake  until  a  light  brown  in  moderate 
oven.  Dust  with  powdered  sugar.  This  recipe  makes  good 
sponge  cake  if  baked  in  thin  cakes. — Herbert  L.  Aldridge. 

WAUWINET  CAKES. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  light  brown  sugar,  one  scant  cup  of 
butter,  two  eggs  beaten  ;  scant  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
one-third  cup  of  boiling  water,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  chop- 
ped raisins,  one  cup  crushed  nuts.  Bake  in  regular  cookie 
pans. — James  Backus,  Nantucket. 


r 


^1 


II  IE 


Ell IE 


t^^ 


r 
] 

L 


i 


^^lE 


LQi-i-ii 11= 


31 II 


=11  If 


1 


I 


146 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


M7 


Do  You  Buy 
Coal  of  Holmes? 

If  you  don't,  read  what  we 
have  to  say: 

^  Coal  is  worth  more  clean  than  dirty, 
for  there  is  less  for  the  ash  heap. 
^  Coal  handled  by  underpaiid,  over- 
worked men  will  be  full  of  dirt,  stone 
and  slate. 

^  Good  men,  well  treated  and  well 
paid,  will  deliver  clean  coal  in  a  satis- 
factory manner. 

^  Regular  Shamokin  Coal  is  very 
liable  to  be  slaty,  and  needs  careful 
picking  before  delivery.  Our  Special 
Soft  Shamokin  is  all  hand  picked. 
^  Our  men  work  for  our  interest  (and 
yours)  and  are  careful  to  pick  out  the 
slate  and  refuse  matter. 
^  If  you  buy  coal  of  us  and  are  not 
suited,  let  us  know,  and  we  will  ex- 
change it  for  other  coal  or  money. 
We  want  your  trade  and  will  try  to 
please  you,  for  we  believe  in  adver- 
tising, and  "a  pleased  customer  is  the 
best  advertisement." 


Cake. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  five  eggs,  one-half 
cup  milk,  four  cups  flour,  two  level  teaspoons  soda,  four  level 
teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

Cream  half  the  sugar  with  butter ;  beat  the  remaining  sugar 
with  yolks  of  eggs  and  sift  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  twice 
through  the  flour.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  with  butter 
and  sugar.  Add  milk  and  flour,  then  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiflf.  Flavor  half  the  mixture  with  rose.  Into  the  other  half 
add  one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  clove  each,  one  grated  nut- 
meg, flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  almond.  Bake  in  four 
layers,  two  white  and  two  dark. 

Makes  Cooking  Easy,  and  the  Cook  Happy.     Holmes'  Coal. 

Filling : — One  cup  raisins,  chopped  fine ;  one-half  of  a  citron 
shredded  thin ;  one  small  cocoanut  grated,  three-fourths  pound 
almonds  blanched.  Make  an  ordinary  boiled  icing  and  into  it 
beat  the  first  three  and  spread  between  layers.  Have  the  top 
layer  of  cake  a  white  one,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
stick  the  almonds  in  porcupine  style. 

The  cup  for  measuring  is  an  ordinary  coffee  cup. 

(This  recipe  came  from  Baltimore  and  is  said  to  be  the 
original  Lady  Baltimore  Cake.) — Mrs.  M.  E.  Merritt. 

Makes  Cooking  Easy,  and  the  Cook  Happy.     Holmes'  Coal. 

LADY    BALTIMORE    CAKE    (Owen  Wister). 

Eight  eggs,  whites  only ;  four  cups  flour,  two  cups  sugar, 
one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  pint  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  two  teaspoons  almond  extract;  bake  in  three  layers. 

Icing  to  put  Between: — Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  one 
and  one-half  gills  boiling  water.  Boil  ten  minutes ;  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  tartaric  acid  to  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs; 

149 


pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  and  beat  hard.  Add  two  cups 
chopped  raisins,  and  two  cups  walnuts.  Duplicate  the  above 
for  frosting  top  and  sides,  leaving  out  raisins  and  nuts. — Mrs. 
Pro  dor,  Newtonville. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one  cup  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs,  two  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  rose  water. 

Filling : — Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  boiling 
water;  cook  until  threads;  pour  on  to  beaten  whites  of  three 
eggs;  then  add  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  pecan  nuts, 
five  figs  cut  into  thin  strips. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Merritt,  N ewtonville. 

A  Square  Deal  and  a  Living   Profit  at  53  Main  St.     This   Is  Holmes'. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE. 

Silver  Cake: — Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites 
of  eight  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
saleratus  (dissolve  in  milk),  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  two 
and  one-half  cups  pastry  flour,  salt  and  almond  flavoring. 

Gold  Cake : — Beat  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  three- 
fourths  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  sal- 
eratus (dissolve  in  milk),  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  two 
cups  pastry  flour,  pinch  of  salt  and  orange  flavoring. — Mrs. 
George  A.  Monk. 

A  Square  Deal  and  a   Living   Profit  at  58  Main  St.     This  Is  Holmes'. 

POUND  CAKE. 
Two-thirds  cup  butter  and  one  cup  sugar  creamed  together; 
add  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat  until  light ;  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one  scant  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  sifted  together; 
add  little  of  sifted  flour  to  mixture,  beat ;  then  one  tablespoon 
of  milk ;  add  alternately  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the 
flour,  part  at  a  time.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  or 
forty  minutes.    Frost  with  chocolate. — Mrs.  Charles  Fuller. 

150 


RANDOLPH  POUND  CAKE. 
Beat  one  cup  butter  with  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  to  a 
cream ;  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  sift  together 
two  cups  flour  and  one  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  add 
to  the  cake  mixture  alternately  with  one-half  cup  milk;  then 
add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  four  eggs  and  beat  thor- 
oughly.— Mrs.  Allie  V.  Packard. 

A  Square  Deal  and  a  Living  Profit  at  58  Main  St.     This   Is  Holmes'. 

RELIABLE  CAKE. 
Five  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  four  cups  flour,  one  cup  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one 
cup  milk. — Mrs.  D.  K.  Carpenter. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  one  cup  fine  granulated  sugar,  one  level  cup 
pastry  flour  measured  before  sifting ;  then  sift  four  times ; 
grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice. 
Break  eggs  carefully,  yolks  in  the  mixing  bowl,  whites  in  a 
deep  pint  bowl ;  first,  without  fail,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  beat 
whites  until  stiff  enough  to  invert  bowl ;  then  beat  one-half 
cup  sugar,  little  by  little,  in  the  whites  and  set  away  in  a  cool 
place. 

Next  beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored  (ten  min- 
utes) ;  add  one-half  cup  sugar  slowly,  stir  into  yolks  the  grated 
lemon  peel  and  lemon  juice;  toss  white  with  yellow  and  cut 
and  fold  until  blended.  Add  one-half  of  flour,  cut  and  fold 
it  in  as  quickly  as  possible ;  then  the  other  half  in  the  same 
way;  do  not  beat;  Bake  in  a  large  tube  pan  or  shallow  tin; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  bake  twenty  minutes  before  opening 
door.  If  baked  in  a  gas  range,  as  soon  as  you  are  ready  to 
beat  the  eggs,  turn  on  one  oven  burner ;  when  cake  is  ready  to 
put  in,  turn  off  nearly  one-half  of  gas  and  put  asbestos  under 
the  pan ;  as  soon  as  cake  shows  the  slightest  sign  of  shrinking 
from  pan  it  is  done.    Time,  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes. 

A  Square  Deal  and  a   Living   Profit  at  58  IVIain  St.     This   Is  Holmes'. 


For  a  smaller  cake,  use  four  eggs,  one  level  cup  flour, 
measured  after  sifting,  and  sift  four  times  more ;  one  cup 
sugar,  grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon,  one  large  spoonful  juice, 
one  tablespoonful  water;  proceed  as  above.  Bake  about  one- 
half  hour. 

I  use  egg  whips  for  beating  eggs  and  a  wooden  spoon  for 
cutting  and  folding. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

Satisfaction  or  Money  Back  on  Anything  Bought  at  Hotines'. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 
Five  eggs,  yolks  beaten  first;  then  one  cup  sugar;  beat  the 
five  whites  stiflf  and  beat  in  with  yolks ;    one  even  cup  flour 
folded  in,  salt  and  flavor  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Skinner. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  one 
cup  sugar  and  beat  well;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  cold  water, 
one  teaspoon  extract ;  mix  one  scant  cup  flour  with  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  cornstarch  (measured  level),  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  add  to  the  first  mixture;  add  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs.     Bake  in  a  shallow  tin. 

SPONGE  CAKE, 
One  cup  sugar,  three  eggs;  beat  sugar  and  yolks  together; 
then  add  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water  and  one  teaspoon  lem- 
on extract;  beat  well,  then  add  one  cup  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  and  lastly  the  whites  well  beaten.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Fletcher,  Mrs.  Rufus 
P.  Keith. 

Satisfaction  or  Money  Back  on  Anything   Bought  at  Holmes' 

ANGEL  CAKE. 
The  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  then  beat  in  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar.  Give  a  good  beating;  then  fold  in  just 
one-fourth  cup  of  potato  flour  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar  sifted  together;  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Bake  in  an 
angel  cake  tin,  without  greasing  the  tin,  about  thirty  minutes. 
— Mrs.  J.  P.  Donovan. 


SPONGE  CAKE, 

Take  the  yolks  of  the  six  eggs  left  from  the  angel  cake  and 
one  whole  egg;  beat  well;  then  add  one  cup  sugar  and  beat 
again.  One-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  ex- 
tract; then  add  one-fourth  cup  potato  flour  and  three-fourths 
cup  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda,  all  sifted  together.  Last  add  three-fourths  cup  of  new 
milk  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes.  Do  not  have  oven  too 
hot. — Mrs.  James  P.  Donovan. 

Satisfaction  or  Money  Back  on  Anything  Bought  at  Ho'mes' 

POTATO  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  beat  half  an  hour;  add  one  cup  sugar,  beat  a 
little  more;  flavor  with  vanilla;  add  a  pinch  of  salt;  sift  in 
one-half  cup  potato  flour  and  scant  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
Bake  slowly  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  Do  not  flour  the 
pan. — Mrs.  S.  Elliot  Keith. 

SPONGE  CAKE, 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  one-half  cup  scalded  milk,  one  teaspoon  extract; 
add  scalded  milk  just  before  putting  into  pan.  Bake  one-half 
hour. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Feeley. 

Satisfaction  or  Money  Back  on  Anything  Bought  at  Holmes'. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  beat  in  gradually  one  and  one- 
half  cups  granulated  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  one-half  cup  of  juice.  Mix 
together  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  pastry  flour,  one-half  cup 
cornstarch  and  two  rounded  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Stir 
this  into  first  mixture,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  nut  meats  (blanched  almonds  are  fine),  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  J.  I.  Merritt. 

153 


ORANGE  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  five  eggs  and  two  cups  sugar  beaten  together,  one- 
half  cup  cold  water,  juice  and  rind  of  one  orange,  two  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten 
stiff;  bake  in  square  pans  and  layers. 

Filling. — Beat  white  of  one  tgg,  add  juice  and  rind  of  one 
orange  and  confectionery  sugar  to  make  stiff  as  desirable. — 
Mrs.  F.  B.  Gardner. 

Watches  Free  to  New  Coal   Customers  When  They  Have  Paid  for  Three 
Tons  of  Coal   at  Holmes'. 

ORANGE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Cream  one  cup  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  butter,  add  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  baking  powder.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  fill  with  white 
frosting;  put  frosting  on  top  and  cover  with  pieces  of  orange. 
— Mrs.  F.  Ernest  Mackie. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one-half  cup  cold  coffee,  two  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  mace,  cloves  and  one  table- 
spoon cinnamon. — Mrs.  N.  E.  Sullivan. 

Watches  Free  to  New  Coal   Customers  When  They  Have  Paid  for  Three 
Tons  of  Coal   at  Holmes'. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half 
cup  coffee,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cassia,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  cur- 
rants. Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  molas- 
ses, first  warming  it  slightly,  and  the  spices ;  beat  these  very 
hard  until  light,  stir  in  the  whipped  yolks,  coffee,  flour  and  the 
whites,  then  the  saleratus,  water,  and  last  stir  in  the  fruit 
dredged  in  flour. — Mrs.  Granville  Hunt. 

154 


SPICE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one-third  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  molas- 
ses, one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of 
clove,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to 
a  cream,  then  beat  in  the  yolks,  then  the  whites  and  spices,  add 
the  molasses,  flour,  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  well ;  add  one-half 
cup  chopped  raisins  or  other  fruit  if  wanted. — Mrs.  Annie  L. 
Tryon. 

Watches  Free  to  New  Coal   Customers  When  They  Have  Paid  for  Three 
Tons  of   Coal   at   Holmes'. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  one-quarter  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  To  one-third  of  this  mixture 
add  one  tablespoonful  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  spices  and 
one  cup  fruit. — Miss  Sadie  Connor. 

NONQUIT  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon 
saleratus,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  three  cups  flour,  one 
cup  milk. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Skinner. 

Watches  Free  to  New  Coal  Customers  When  They  Have  Paid  for  Three 
Tons  of   Coal   at  Holmes'. 

NUT  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour  (pastry),  one  teaspoon  soda, 
two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  cup 
chopped  nuts.  One  very  large  cake  or  two  small  ones. — Mrs. 
W.  E.  Bryant. 

I5S 


WALNUT  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one 
cup  milk,  three  and  one-quarter  cups  flour,  three  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  three-quarters  cup  walnuts,  chopped 
fine,  whites  of  four  eggs ;  mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and 
bake  in  deep  cake  pans. 

Frosting. — One  and  one-half  cups  confectioners'  sugar^ 
sifted,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  extract, 
enough  hot  milk  to  make  of  consistency  to  spread,  crease  in 
squares  and  put  one  walnut  on  each  square. — Mrs.  Minnie 
Daley. 

Douglas  Lehigh  Coal,  "Best  by  Any  Test."     This  Is  Holmes'. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  three  egg  yolks  and  two 
whites,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one 
and  one-half  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three-quarters  cup 
broken  walnuts.  Bake  in  a  sheet  forty-five  minutes  and  cover 
the  top  with  frosting. 

Frosting. — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one  egg 
white,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla ;  boil  sugar  and  water  till  it 
threads,  then  pour  slowly  into  beaten  white  of  egg.  Beat  till 
cool,  flavor  and  spread. — Mrs.  J.  V.  Richards. 

NUT  CAKE. 
Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  but- 
ter, one-half  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  cup  meats  of  any 
kind  of  nuts. — Miss  Elizabeth  Saxton. 

Douglas  Lehigh  Coal,  "Best  by  Any  Test."     This  Is  Holmes'. 

BROWNSTONE  FRONT  CAKE. 
Two  squares  chocolate  grated,  one-half  cup  milk,  yolk  of 
one  egg',  stir  and  cook  until  the  consistency  of  custard,  stir- 
ring constantly;  add  one  tablespoonful  butter;  when  cool,  add 

156 


one-half  cup  milk  with  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  it,  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  pastry  flour,  one  teaspoonful  va- 
nilla and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Frosting. — One  and  one-half  cups  confectioners'  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  butter  creamed;  add  one  tablespoonful  milk  and 
flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  L.  F.  Gurney. 

Douglas  Lehigh  Coal,  "Best  by  Any  Test."     This  Is  Holmes'. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  three  eggs, 
butter  size  of  a  large  egg,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  save  the  whites  until 
last  thing  and  add  after  flour  is  mixed  in,  then  milk  with  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  the  milk,  then  flour. 

Chocolate  Filling  for  Cake. — Two  and  one-half  or  three 
lengths  of  chocolate,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  two  tablespoons  milk.  Melt  chocolate,  add  sugar,  milk 
and  egg.  Bake  in  two  tins  and  spread  while  hot. — Mrs.  E.  C. 
Brady. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  walnut  meats, 
one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda. — Mrs. 
Jennie  Ford. 

Douglas  Lehigh  Coal,  "Best  by  Any  Test."     This  Is  Holmes'. 

BROWNSTONE  FRONT  CAKE. 

One  egg  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  square  choco- 
late, cook  in  saucepan  until  it  thickens ;  when  cool  add  one  cup 
sugar  and  one-half  cup  milk;  add  one-half  teaspoon  soda  to 
milk  and  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  after  it  is  sifted  and  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  two 
round  tins. 

Filling. — Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter ; 
cream  together;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  milk  and  flavor  to 
taste. — M.  A.  F. 

157 


BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
One-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
cocoa  (or  two  squares  chocolate)  ;  beat  the  above  mixture  to- 
gether five  minutes  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Cream  one-half  cup 
butter  and  one  cup  brown  sugar,  two  egg  yolks  well  beaten, 
then  add  boiled  mixture,  beat,  then  alternately  add  one-half 
cup  milk  and  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 
in  milk,  salt  and  vanilla.  Then  add  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff.    Bake  forty  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Knight. 

All  the  Latest  and  Best  In  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
One-half  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  squares  choco- 
late (or  three  tablespoons  cocoa),  yolk  of  one  egg;  cook  until 
creamy,  then  remove  and  beat  a  little,  then  cool.  When  cool 
add  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  (creamed),  one-half 
cup  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour.     Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  W.  H.  French. 

WELLESLEY  FUDGE  CAKE. 

Cream  together  two-thirds  cup  butter  with  one  cup  sugar, 
then  add  one  cup  milk,  one-quarter  cup  grated  chocolate,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  walnuts,  two  beaten  eggs,  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour  sifted  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  good  oven.  When  cold,  cover  with  frosting  made  as 
follows : 

Frosting. — Put  into  a  saucepan  one-half  tablespoon  butter, 
one-half  cup  unsweetened  chocolate,  one  and  one-quarter  cups 
powdered  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons vanilla.    Boil  eight  minutes. — Grace  B.  Beattie. 

All  the  Latest  and  Best  In  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
One  and  one-half  squares  chocolate  (melted),  one-half  cup 
butter  creamed  with  one  cup  sugar  and  chocolate,  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  saleratus,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Laztrence. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sour  milk  into  which  dissolve  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups 
pastry  flour,  three  squares  melted  chocolate,  three  eggs. — Mrs. 
F.  B.  Gardner. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  good  teaspoon ful  baking 
powder,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour  sifted  three  times,  one 
teaspoonful  butter,  two  squares  chocolate ;  melt  butter  and 
chocolate  together. — Mrs.  Donald  C.  Blair. 

All  the  Latest  and  Best  in  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  creamed,  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  and  add  three  squares  melted  chocolate,  one 
cup  sour  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  soda  in  two  cups  pastry 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Frosting. — One  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  and  one-quarter 
cups  water;  boil  until  it  threads;  beat  the  white  of  one  egg 
with  one-quarter  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  until  stiff,  then 
pour  the  syrup  over  the  egg,  beating  all  the  while. — Mrs.  W. 
E.  Bryant. 

All  the  Latest  and  Best  in  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

POTATO  TORTE  CAKE  (German). 
One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  riced  potato,  two  cups 
flour,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  cup  grated  chocolate,  four  eggs, 
one-half  pound  sweet  almonds.  Put  cold  boiled  potato  through 
a  ricer,  pour  boiling  water  over  almonds,  let  stand  a  few 
moments,  then  remove  the  skins  and  chop  fine.  Measure  flour 
after  sifting  and  sift  again  with  the  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter  and  gradually  beat  in  sugar,  then  chocolate,  then  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  next  the  milk,  flour  mixture,  almonds  and  last 
the  beaten  whites  dry.  Bake  two  hours  in  a  medium  oven. 
Boil  potatoes  day  before.  One-half  this  recipe  makes  a  good- 
sized  cake.  Other  nuts  can  be  used.  This  cake  will  keep  for 
a  long  time  and  should  not  be  used  as  soon  as  baked. — Mrs. 
Kate  L.  Weaver. 

1 59 


TOM  AND  JERRY  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups 
flour,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  baking  powder ;  flavor  with 
with  vanilla,  divide  in  two  portions.  To  one  half  add  one  cup 
raisins,  one  cup  currants,  one  teaspoon  each  of  clove,  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg  and  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  molasses.  This 
makes  two  loaves.  Put  fruit  part  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and 
light  on  top ;  bake  together  in  oven  for  about  an  hour. — Han- 
nah A.  Hale. 

About    100    Grocers    Sell    Holmes'    Special    Soft    Shamokin    Coai     in    the 
Paper  "Bag  With  the   Hod  On." 

DARK  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Three  pounds  seeded  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound 
citron,  two  cups  butter,  three  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  molas- 
ses, one  cup  milk,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  nutmeg,  clove,  cin- 
namon, five  cups  sifted  flour.  Makes  three  large  loaves.  Bake 
slowly  one  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

DARK  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  raisins 
(seeded  and  chopped),  one  cup  currants,  one-half  cup  citron 
thinly  sliced  and  cut  in  strips,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice,  one  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  one-quarter  teaspoon  mace,  one-half  teaspoon 
cloves.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  together,  add 
molasses,  then  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  well  with  flour  the 
cream  of  tartar  and  spices,  dissolve  soda  in  a  very  little  water, 
add  to  first  mixture,  then  add  milk  and  flour  alternately,  and 
lastly  add  fruit,  stirring  in  well. — Mrs.  J.  V.  Richards. 

About    100    Grocers    Sell     Holmes'    Special    Soft    Shamokin    Coal     In    the 
Paper  "Bag  With  the   Hod  On." 

l6o 


VIRGINIA  FRUIT  CAKE. 
One-half  cup  butter,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  three  eggs, 
one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  nut- 
meg, one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup 
raisins,  one-half  cup  citron,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoon  cloves,  two  tablespoonfuls  brandy,  one-half  table- 
spoon grated  lemon  rind.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  when 
creamy,  add  eggs  and  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  angel  cake 
pan  about  two  hours. — Annie  E.  Wade. 

About    100    Grocers    Sell     Holmes'    Special    Soft    Shamokin    Coal     in    the 
Paper  "Bag  With  the   Hod  On." 

FRUIT  CAKE. 
One  cup  sugar,  not  quite  a  cup  molasses,  one  cup  shortening, 
two  eggs,  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  soda,  three-quarters  cup  wetting  (milk  and 
water),  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  small  piece 
chopped  citron.  Flour  enough  to  make  thick.  This  makes  two 
loaves. — Mrs.  John  Stewart. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 
One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one-half 
cup  milk,  three  tablespoons  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  mace,  one  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice,  one  cup  currants, 
one  and  one-half  cups  raisins,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour. — 
Joan  L.  Clifford. 

About    100    Grocers    Sell    Holmes'    Special    Soft    Shamokin    Coal     In    ihe 
Paper  "Bag  With  the   Hod  On." 

EXCELLENT  FRUIT  CAKE. 
One  cup  butter,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  two  pounds  raisins,  one-half  pound  currants, 
one-quarter  pound  citron,  one  nutmeg.  Will  keep  moist  two 
months.    Makes  two  loaves. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Keith. 

i6i 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  each  of  brown  sugar,  butter,  molasses  and 
milk,  one  egg,  two  cupfuls  flour,  two  cups  raisins,  one-quarter 
pound  citron,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, cloves  and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  S.  Elliott  Keith. 

The  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod  Means  Coal  Satisfaction. 

FAVORITE  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup 
milk,  three  cups  flour  (sift  flour  before  measuring),  two  tea- 
spoons Cleveland's  baking  powder;  beat  hard  five  minutes, 
flavor. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Brady. 

TEDDY'S  CAKE  (Good). 

Cream  together  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  butter,  break 
into  this  one  egg  and  beat  all  together ;  sift  one  cup  flour,  then 
add  pinch  of  salt  and  good  full  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and 
one-third  cup  cornstarch,  and  sift  all  together  again.  Use  one- 
half  cup  milk  and  another  egg;  now  add  a  little  milk,  a  little 
of  the  flour  and  the  other  egg,  beating  each  in  thoroughly  as 
you  use  them  until  all  is  gone.  Bake  in  a  loaf  about  forty  or 
forty-five  minutes,  in  a  moderate  oven. — Pauline  Beveridge. 

The  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod  l^eans  Coal  Satisfaction. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE  (Good). 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  egg,  three  cups 
blueberries,  one  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour, 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Rub 
butter  and  sugar  together.  Break  egg  upon  the  mixture  and 
beat  thoroughly,  then  add  the  milk,  next  the  flour  in  which  has 
been  mixed  the  nutmeg  and  baking  powder.  Beat  quickly  and 
stir  in  the  berries  very  gently.  Bake  in  rather  hot  oven  for 
thirty-five  minutes. — Miss  Mary  H.  Nugent. 

162 


HOT  MILK  CAKE. 
Two  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  then  to- 
gether), add  one  cup  sugar  and  beat  with  a  spoon  five  minutes, 
one  cup  flour  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  in  it,  salt 
and  a  few  drops  lemon  extract,  one-half  cup  quite  hot  milk 
with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  melted  in  it  added 
last ;  mix  well  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Nice  with  ice  cream. — 
Mrs.  Fred  Park. 

The  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod  Means  Coal  Satisfaction. 

SURPRISE  CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  pastry  flour  and  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder  and  sift  together  into  mixing  bowl ;  melt  one- 
quarter  cup  butter  and  break  into  it  two  eggs,  then  fill  cup  with 
milk  and  add  this  to  the  flour  mixture ;  beat  well.  This  makes 
a  fine  Washington  pie. — Mrs.  Allie  V.  Packard,  Mrs.  Annie 
McCarthy. 

CHEAP  PLAIN  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  lemon  flavoring.  This  makes  a  nice  jelly 
cake,  two  layers. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Skinner. 

TUMBLER  CAKE. 
One-quarter  tumbler  butter  melted,  two  eggs,  fill  tumbler 
with  milk,  pour  into  one  and  one-quarter  tumblers  flour,  one 
tumbler  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  mix  all  to- 
gether and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — G.  M.  Brooks. 

The  Sign  of  the  Filled  Hod  Means  Coal  Satisfaction. 

SOUR  MILK  CAKE. 
One  tablespoonful  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar  (creamed  with 
butter),  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  clove,  one-half  teaspoon  saleratus  dissolved  in 
one  cup  sour  milk,  two  cups  flour  (entire  wheat),  one-half  cup 
raisins  (cut  in  two),  one-half  cup  chopped  English  walnuts. — 
Mrs.  H.  E.  Merritt. 

163 


PLAIN  CAKE  WITHOUT  MILK. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
water,  one  and  three-quarters  cups  flour,  three  even  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  any  flavor  desired. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Stedmcm. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Read,  C  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

EGOLESS  LAYER  CAKE  OR  WASHINGTON  PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  pinch  salt,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  flour,  a  little  of  all 
kinds  of  spices  (spices  can  be  omitted).  Bake  in  two  layers 
in  hot  oven. 

Cocoa  Frosting. — Add  to  one  cup  powdered  sugar  three 
tablespoons  of  sweet  cream  (or  milk)  and  mix  well ;  add  one 
tablespoon  cocoa  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla  extract,  then 
spread.  This  frosting  will  not  crack  when  cut. — Mrs.  Mary 
Packard. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  and  three-quarters  cups  sugar,  one  cup  but- 
ter, one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  raisins  chopped 
fine,  three  cups  pastry  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  This  makes  one 
large  cake  or  two  small  ones. — Mrs.  Donald  C.  Blair. 

CORA  BELLE'S  WHITE  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  butter  (scant),  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
two  and  three-quarters  cups  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Sullivan. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Read,  0  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

SAUSAGE  CAKE. 

Scant  one-half  cup  sausage  fat,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  currants 
(citron  if  you  like  it),  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  tea- 

164 


spoon  nutmeg,  one-quarter  teaspoon  clove,  two  cups  pastry 
flour ;  mix  well  the  fat  and  sugar,  then  add  sour  milk,  then  the 
soda  dissolved  in  one  teaspoon  of  warm  water,  then  the  flour 
and  lastly  the  fruit  well  floured. — Mrs.  Z.  G.  Marston. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Read,  C  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

ORANGE  CREAM  PIE. 

One  orange  grated,  butter  one-half  size  of  an  ^gg,  one  cup 
sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Cream. — Two  cups  milk,  two  tablespoon  fuls  flour,  two  eggs, 
two-thirds  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt;  stir  the  flour  and  sugar  to- 
gether dry,  add  the  eggs  and  stir  into  the  milk  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil ;  cook  a  little  and  then  add  the  juice  of  the  orange. — 
Mrs.  J.  A.  Condon. 

LEMON  ICING. 

One-half  pound  pulverized  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one-half  lemon,  three  teaspoonfuls  sweet  cream;  stir  the 
sugar  in  lemon,  then  add  cream  and  stir  until  smooth. — Mrs. 
N.  P.  Appleton. 

If  You  Want  Anything  to  Read,  C  Holmes,  58  Main  St. 

CAKE  FILLING. 

One-quarter  pound  walnuts  chopped,  one-half  cup  sultana 
raisins,  one-quarter  pound  figs ;  cover  figs  with  boiling  water, 
let  stand  five  minutes,  drain.  To  one  coffee  cup  confectioners' 
sugar  add  three  tablespoons  milk ;  beat  thoroughly,  add  to  first 
mixture.  A  rich  moist  filling  that  will  keep  well. — Mrs.  A.  C. 
Gibbs. 


[Abydure:    tlean 

MGSICERLESStOAL 


■65 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


1 66 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 


Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


167 


\a/E  want  your  trade 
"  ^  and  tKink  we  can 
suil:  you.  ^  The  best"^ 
pure,  clean  COALS^*^ 
prompt]/  delivered  at 
low  prices  should  do  it. 


D 


•ABYpURE     fLEAN 
lAGSlEERLESSvOAL 


ENTERPRISE  BUILDING 
58  MAIN  ST. 


1 68 


Confectionery. 

"All  that's  sweet  was  made  but  to  be  lost 
when  sweetest." — Moore. 

The  whole  "trick"  of  candy  making  depends  upon  the  boil- 
ing of  the  syrup.  The  directions  here  given  are  absolutely  re- 
liable, but  you  may  fail  of  results  the  first  time  in  following 
them.  Select  only  clear  days  for  candy  making,  dampness  be- 
ing fatal  to  the  best  results. 

If  You  Want   Hay,  Grain   and  Straw  Satisfactloi.,   C   Holmes. 

FONDANT. 
Into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan  put  one  pound  granulated 
sugar,  one  cup  water  and  one-third  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar; 
stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  touch  not,  only  to  carefully 
wipe  off  the  crystals  as  they  form  on  the  sides  of  the  pan,  or  to 
very  gently  remove  any  scum  that  may  collect.  At  the  end  of 
ten  minutes  begin  testing  by  dipping  a  spoon  into  a  bowl  of 
ice  water,  then  gently  taking  out  a  little  syrup  and  returning 
to  the  water.  As  soon  as  you  can  form  a  soft  ball  it  is  done. 
Remove  from  fire  and  turn  on  to  a  buttered  platter  to  cool. 
As  soon  as  you  can  bear  your  finger  in  it,  with  comfort,  begin 
to  stir  with  a  wooden  cake  beater,  until  a  milk  white  creamy 
mass  is  formed  too  thick  to  stir.  Now  knead  until  it  is  pliable 
and  smooth,  when  it  can  be  put  into  a  bowl  and  covered  with 
a  damp  cloth  for  future  use.  As  you  use  it,  work  in  any  flavor 
you  like. — Mrs.  Proctor,  N ewtonville ;  Mrs.  A.  W.  Knight. 

If  You   Want   Hay,   Grain   and   Straw   Satisfaction,   C    Holmes. 

SULTANA  CANDY. 
One-quarter  cup  butter  melted  in  saucepan;  when  melted 
add  one-quarter  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  cups 
sugar.  Boil  seven  minutes,  add  two  squares  chocolate,  stir  un- 
til melted,  boil  five  minutes  longer;  do  not  stir  while  boiling. 
Beat  until  creamy,  add  one-half  cup  broken  walnut  meats,  one- 
quarter  cup  sultana  raisins,  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cut 
in  squares. — Mrs.  Kenneth  McLeod. 

169 


COCOANUT  CANDY. 
Two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  water ;  boil  six  minutes  over 
quick  fire.     Stir  in  grated  or  dessicated  cocoanut  and  remove 
from  fire ;  turn  in  to  pan  and  mark  in  bars  when  partly  cooled. 
— Mrs.  Kenneth  McLcod. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  milk;  boil  until 
sugars  on  side  of  pan ;  when  nearly  done,  add  one  cup  grated 
cocoanut  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat 
until  creamy.  Turn  into  buttered  pan  and  mark  into  squares 
when  partly  cold. — Anna  H.  Haviland. 

We   Please   Customers   at   Holmes',   58   Main   St. 

ALMOND  CANDY. 

Boil  one  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  water,  without  stirring, 
until  amber  color;  just  before  taking  from  stove,  add  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  one  cup  almonds.  Pour 
in  buttered  pan  and  cut  in  squares. — Anna  H.  Haviland. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Pour  one  cup  white  sugar  into  a  spider  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  turns  brown  and  lumps,  then  melt  to  a  syrup.  When 
in  this  state,  turn  in  a  quart  of  peanuts,  chopped  fine,  and 
poiT  into  buttered  pan.  Cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  Norman  W. 
Sampson. 

KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  until  very  stiff,  fold  in  one  cup 
confectioners'  sugar,  drop  on  oiled  paper  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Knight. 

V^e   Please   Customers  at   Holmes',   58   Main   St. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 
Boil  one  cup  brown  sugar  and  two  cups  molasses  for  ten 
minutes,  add  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one-quarter  cup  butter 
and  one-half  pound  of  grated  chocolate.  Boil  twenty  minutes 
longer,  pour  into  buttered  tins  and  mark  in  squares  when  cool. 
— Mrs.  A.  W.  Knight. 

170 


DIVINITY  CANDY. 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  maple  syrup,  one- 
half  cup  hot  water,  one-quarter  pound  English  walnuts 
chopped,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Boil  sugar,  syrup 
and  water  until  you  can  pinch  it  into  a  ball  when  dropped  in 
cold  water,  then  set  it  back  on  stove  until  the  bubbling  stops. 
Pour  over  the  eggs,  stirring.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen,  put 
nuts  in  and  stir  until  it  can  be  dropped  from  a  spoon  without 
spreading.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  or  waxed  paper. — Mrs. 
Norman  W.  Sampson. 

We   Please   Customers  at   Holmes',  58   Main   St. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE. 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one-half 
cup  Karo  syrup.  Boil  until  it  will  spin  a  thread  that  is  brittle, 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Beat  into  it  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Add  one  pound  English  walnuts  or  three-quarters 
cup  will  do  (cut  up),  just  before  it  is  ready  to  turn  into  pans. 
— Mrs.  Richard  Holmes,  Plymouth;  Mrs.  M.  Ella  Merritt, 
Newtonville;  Mrs.  Joseph  A.  Webber. 

DOUBLE  FUDGE. 

First  Layer. — ^Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  rich 
milk,  two  squares  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water; 
take  off  the  fire  and  beat  until  it  grains ;  turn  into  pan. 

Second  Layer. — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  milk;  boil 
to  the  soft  ball  stage,  add  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  cup  nut 
meats,  one  teaspoon  vanilla ;  beat  until  creamy  and  turn  over 
the  first  layer. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Merritt. 

We    Please   Customers   at    Holmes',   58    Main    St. 

WHITE  FRUIT  FUDGE. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  rich  milk;  boil  to  the 
soft  ball  stage ;  take  off  fire ;  add  one  teaspoon  butter  and  the 
fruit;  beat  and  turn  into  pans. 

Fruit  Mixture. — Nut  meats,  dates,  figs,  raisins ;  one  cup  in 
all,  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  Proctor,  Newtonville. 

171 


FRUIT  FUDGE. 
Two  cups  confectioners'  sugar,  one-half  cup  water ;  boil  five 
minutes,  pour  into  platter  and  let  stand  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  stir  with  spoon  until  stiff ;  knead  with  hands  into 
loaf.  Mix  well  into  the  above  fondant,  chopped  raisins,  figs, 
dates  and  candied  cherries;  chopped  walnuts  and  pecans  may 
be  used  in  place  of  the  fruits.  Grated  cocoanut  is  also  nice 
added  to  the  fondant. — Nettie  L.  Haviland. 

The  Cook  Stove  Will  Suit  You  if  You  Burn  Holmes'  Goal. 

HARLEQUIN  FUDGE. 
Two  cups  confectioners'  sugar,  one-half  cup  water ;  boil  five 
minutes;  pour  into  a  platter  and  let  stand  until  it  begins  to 
thicken ;  stir  with  spoon  until  stiff ;  knead  with  hands  into  loaf. 
To  one-third  of  the  above,  add  pink  sugar  and  flavor  with 
strawberry,  chocolate  to  another  portion,  leaving  the  other 
third  white.  Place  one  on  top  of  other,  roll  out  in  layers,  cut 
through  in  cubes. — Nettie  L.  Haviland. 

FUDGE. 
Two  cups  sugar,  butter  size  of  tgg,  not  quite  one  cup  milk, 
two  and  one-half  squares  chocolate ;  boil  about  fifteen  minutes 
or  until  it  crumbles  around  the  edge  of  pan;  one  teaspoonful 
vanilla ;  stir  some  minutes  until  it  begins  to  harden.  Pour  in  a 
buttered  pan  and  cool. — Helen  Mclntyre. 

The  Cook  Stove  Will  Suit  You  if  You   Burn  Holmes'  Coal. 

MAPLE  FUDGE. 
Into  a  saucepan  put  one  cup  maple  sugar,  one  cup  granu- 
lated sugar  and  one  cup  cream  or  top  of  bottle  of  milk;  put 
over  fire,  let  stand  on  cool  part  of  range  until  sugar  dissolves, 
then  stir  gently  occasionally  and  cook  rapidly  until  a  soft  ball 
is  formed  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  without  disturbing  it  until 
the  heat  has  almost  left  it,  then  beat  until  it  thickens  and 
grains  slightly. — Lena  B.  Kennedy. 

172 


WALNUT  FUDGE. 
One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  white  sugar,  one-quarter 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  small  teaspoon  butter,  one  small  pinch 
cream  of  tartar,  one  small  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. 
Boil  sugar,  milk,  butter  together  for  six  minutes,  then  add  the 
cream  of  tartar  and  flavoring,  adding  the  last  thing,  one  and 
one-half  cups  chopped  walnuts.  Stir  about  eight  minutes  and 
put  in  pan.  Mark  into  squares  before  it  hardens. — Mrs.  J.  T. 
Clifford. 

The  Cook  Stove  Will  Suit  You  if  You   Burn  Holmes'  Coal. 

FRUIT  CANDY. 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  granulated  sugar, 
one-half  cup  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter;  boil  eight  to  ten 
minutes;  take  from  fire  and  add  one  cup  walnut  meats,  one- 
half  cup  sultana  raisins;  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  H.  R. 
Prouty. 

ORANGE  CREAMS. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  graulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk; 
boil  two  or  three  minutes ;  take  from  fire,  add  grated  rind  of 
orange,  one  teaspoonful  orange  extract,  beat  until  creamy; 
drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  on  paraffine  paper,  with  running, 
— Mrs.  H.  R.  Prouty. 

The  Cook  Stove  Will  Suit  You  if  You   Burn  Holmes'  Coal. 

SEA  FOAM  CANDY. 
Put  three  cupfuls  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  water 
and  one  tablespoonful  vinegar  into  a  saucepan.  Heat  gradu- 
ally to  boiling,  stirring  only  until  sugar  is  dissolved ;  then  boil 
without  stirring  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  tested  in  cold 
water.  Remove  at  once  from  fire,  and  when  the  syrup  stops 
bubbling,  pour  gradually  into  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  beating  constantly.  Continue  the  beating  until  the  mix- 
ture will  hold  its  shape,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and 
one  cupful  walnuts  cut  in  pieces.  Drop  in  small  rough  shaped 
mounds  on  buttered  paper.  It  is  nice  for  icing  for  cake  also. 
— Mrs.  Allie  V.  Packard. 

173 


CREAM  PEPPERMINTS. 
One  cup  white  sugar,  one-eighth  cup  milk  and  water  mixed, 
one  teaspoon  extract  peppermint,  one  small  pinch  cream  of 
tartar,  one  teaspoon  butter.  Boil  sugar,  butter,  milk  and  water 
together  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and 
flavoring,  stir  about  ten  minutes  and  drop  quickly  on  buttered 
paper. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Clifford. 

For  Satisfactory    Fountain    Pen    Ink,   C.   Holmes,   58    Main   St. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

Boil  together  one  cup  water  and  two  cups  sugar  for  ten 
minutes.  Then  drop  a  little  in  ice  water ;  if  it  will  form  a  soft 
ball  when  rolled  between  the  fingers,  it  is  cooked  enough ;  stir 
in  one  teaspoon  extract  of  peppermint ;  when  cool  pour  in  bowl 
and  beat ;  then  drop  on  buttered  plates.  Flavor. — Mrs.  W.  A. 
Deane. 

BALTIMORE  CARAMELS. 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound 
Baker's  chocolate  broken  in  bits,  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon 
butter ;  mix  together  and  stir  constantly  until  it  grains  and 
hardens,  usually  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Deane. 

LEMON  DROPS. 
One  cup  powdered  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of  lemon, 
water  enough  to  dissolve ;  boil  until  crisp  when  dropped  in 
water.    Drop  in  buttered  plates. — Mrs.  Etta  Deane. 

For   Satisfactory    Fountain    Pen    Ink,    0.    Holmes,    58    Main    St. 

NUT  TAFFY. 
Three  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk,  one- 
quarter  cup  molasses,  one  cup  cocoanut  or  walnuts,  two  heap- 
ing dessertspoonfuls  of  cocoa,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  two 
teaspoons  vanilla  stirred  in  when  taken  from  the  fire.  Boil 
fifteen  or  eighteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. — Mrs.  H.  C. 
Vining. 

174 


HEAVENLY  HASH. 

This  candy  is  made  in  three  layers. 

First  Layer. — Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  three-quarters 
cup  milk ;  boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  stir  in  a  piece  of 
butter  as  large  as  an  English  walnut  (after  removing  from  the 
fire),  a  little  vanilla,  three-quarters  cup  walnuts  cut  fine;  stir 
about  three  minutes,  pour  into  tin. 

Second  Layer. — Two  cups  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  milk, 
two  squares  Baker's  chocolate.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold 
water,  butter  and  vanilla  as  above,  stir  three  minutes  and  pour 
on  to  the  first  layer. 

Third  Layer. — Third  layer  is  like  the  first,  except  add 
candied  cherries  to  mixture  instead  of  nuts.  Cut  in  bars  when 
cool. — Mrs.  Proctor,  Newtonville. 

For  Satisfactory    Fountain    Pen    Ink,   C.   Holmes,   58    Main   St. 

CREAM  CANDY. 
One  pound  powdered  sugar,  one-third  cup  melted  butter, 
two  tablespoons  milk,  two  tablespoons  cocoa,  vanilla;  roll  out 
with  rolling  pin  and  cut  in  sugar. — Elsie  K.  Fanning. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 
Blanch  one-half  pound  dry  and  spread  on  a  pan,  put  a  large 
spoon  butter  with  them  and  stir  them  up  until  all  are  a  little 
greasy,  then  put  them  in  the  oven  until  they  are  pale  yellow, 
not  brown;  then  sift  a  spoonful  of  fine  salt  over  them  while 
hot;  shake  well;  when  cold,  gently  sift  the  superfluous  salt 
from  them.  If  they  are  not  very  dry  when  put  in  oven  they 
will  not  be  crisp. — Rosella  Bohian. 

For  Satisfactory    Fountain    Pen    Ink,   C.   Holmes,   58   Main   St. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Four  tablespoons  gelatine   (even)   and  sixteen  tablespoons 

water ;  put  gelatine  in  the  water  to  dissolve ;  when  dissolved 

place  on  front  of  the  stove  until  hot,  but  not  boiling ;  when  hot 

dissolve  three  cups  sugar  in  gelatine,  one  cup  at  a  time ;  be  sure 

»7S 


that  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved ;  remove  from  fire  and  beat  until 
it  is  white  and  creamy;  beat  as  long  as  possible  (usually  it  re- 
quires thirty  minutes)  with  a  spoon;  then  add  one  cup  nut 
meats  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla ;  then  beat  as  long  as  pos- 
sible with  a  fork.  Pour  into  pans,  place  near  fire  and  a  crust 
will  form,  or  let  stand  over  night  and  cut  in  squares ;  do  not 
attempt  to  cut  until  the  crust  is  formed.  After  crust  is  formed, 
turn  candy  crust-side  down  and  let  crust  on  other  side. — K. 
L.  W. 

Nothing   Better  Than   Holmes'  Coal  at  Any  Price. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDY. 

One  coffee  cup  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one  large 
spoonful  vinegar,  two-thirds  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  boil 
twenty-five  minutes  without  stirring ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  when 
almost  cold  pull  it  near  the  stove  and  it  will  be  white. — Corinne 
E.  Broimie. 

SUGAR  CANDY. 

Three-quarters  cup  vinegar  and  water,  equal  parts,  one  cup 
sugar;  let  it  boil  gently  in  a  shallow  pan  until  brittle  when 
tried  in  water.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling.  Pull  as  soon  as  it 
can  be  worked. — Corinne  E.  Broimve. 

SOUR  CREAM  CANDY. 

One  cup  sour  cream,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  piece  of  butter, 
one  cup  walnuts  chopped ;  boil  eight  minutes  and  stir  a  long 
time  after  taking  from  stove. — Elsie  K.  Fanning. 

Nothing    Better  Than    Holmes'   Coal   at  Any   Price. 

PENUCHIE. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  milk,  butter  size 
of  an  tgg;  cook  until  when  dropped  in  water  it  will  form  a  soft 
ball;  a  little  vanilla,  one  quart  peanuts,  three-quarters  cup 
seeded  raisins,  chop  in  meat  chopper,  stir  in  quickly. — Mrs. 
Marcus  Russell,  West  Hanover. 

176 


PUFFED  RICE  BRITTLE. 
Boil  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one  tea- 
spoon vinegar;  boil  five  minutes,  add  two  tablespoons  mo- 
lasses, butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  boil  until  it  becomes  hard  when 
dropped  in  cold  water;  stir  in  one-half  package  puffed  rice 
previously  warmed;  spread  on  dish  to  cool. — Ada  L.  Poole. 

Nothing   Better  Than  Holmes'  Coal  at  Any  Price. 

WALNUT  CREAMS. 
Two  and  one-half  cups  coffee  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream, 
butter  size  of  a  walnut ;  cook  it  until  it  strings ;  take  from  fire 
and  stir  in  one-half  pound  chopped  walnuts. — Elsie  M.  Orcutt. 

WALNUT  CREAMS  No.  2. 
One  and  one-half  cups  confectioners'  sugar  sifted,  white  of 
one  egg  and  an  equal  quantity  of  water ;  stir  sugar  into  water 
and  white  of  egg  until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  mould ;  put  a  little 
ball  of  cream  on  half  a  walnut,  place  other  half  on  the  other 
side,  roll  in  sugar. — Elsie  M.  Orcutt. 


No  great  business  can  be  built 
that  has  not  for  its  foundation 
what  Lincoln  called  the  Common 
People.  Mr.  Dana  says  there 
are  no  classes  in  this  free  Repub- 
lic, yet  everybody  knows  what  is 
meant  by  the  Middle  Class. 

It  means  about  nine  persons 
in  every  ten — yes,  ninety-nine  in 
every  hundred. 

That  is  where  our  special  Soft 
Shamokin  Coal  gets  its  support. 
It  is  in  touch  with  the  popular 
heart.  It  pleases  the  common 
people.  We  know  this  and  so 
we  advertise  it,  for  "a  pleased 
customer  is  the  best  advertise- 
ment" for  This  is  Holmes'  Corp. 


177 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


178 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


179 


i^/lx 
ft-2Mi 

ft-2MJ 


r/i.>; 


READY  TO 

WORK 

24  HOURS 

A  DAY 

365 

DAYS 

AYEAR 

THE 

PAE 


EMT 
rOUNTAIN 
PEN 


(2^ 


FOR   SALE   BY 


IlllSlSifflfiSl 

'§^^  CORP.  ^^T^ 

ii??^    58  MAIN  STREET  plf 

ivia    A     1  A 11  I—         1       f      •  yr''^!i 

SkS  And  All  rirst-classotationera.  i>~j.< 


m 

W 


CKafing  Dish  Dainties. 

DEVILLED  OYSTERS. 

One  pint  oysters,  one  cup  cream,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  pepper.  Drain 
and  slightly  chop  the  oysters.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  stir 
quickly  until  well  mixed,  add  hot  cream,  yolks  of  eggs  and 
seasoning,  and  add  to  the  oysters. — Inez  M.  R.  Hill. 

Free    Use   of   Tables   and    Writing    l^aterlals   for    Postcard    Customers    at 
58  Main  St.     You  Can  Get  Your  Stamps  Here  as  Cheap  as  Elsewliere. 

RAREBIT. 

Grate  or  cut  into  small  pieces  one  pound  of  rich  cream 
cheese.  Add  to  this  one  even  cupful  of  milk  (or  milk  and 
cream  combined),  one  small  teaspoonful  of  mustard  dissolved 
in  a  little  of  the  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  good  pinch 
of  cayenne.  Stir  this  together  in  the  chafing  dish  or  double 
boiler  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Then  add  one  tablespoon 
butter,  and  one  rounding  teaspoonful  flour  which  has  been 
thoroughly  dissolved  in  one-quarter  cup  of  milk.  When  the 
rarebit  has  commenced  to  thicken  a  little,  add  one  egg  beaten 
well.  Do  not  cook  too  long  after  the  egg  is  added.  Stir  all 
the  time  rarebit  is  over  the  fire.  This  is  also  very  good  made 
of  sage  cheese. — Sue  E.  Baldwin. 

Free    Use   of   Tables    and    Writing    Materials   for    Postcard    Customers    zt 
58  Mai/i  St.     You  Can  Get  Your  Stamps  Here  as  Cheap  as  Elsewhere. 

SCOTCH   WOOD-COCK. 

One  can  asparagus  tips,  drained ;  six  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut 
up ;  one  pint  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  dash  red  pepper,  salt, 
one  tablespoon  cornstarch,  made  into  a  cream  gravy  in  double 
boiler.  Add  asparagus  and  hard  boiled  eggs.  Heat  thoroughly 
and  serve  on  toasted  bread  (toast  on  one  side). — Mrs.  Ralph 
Poole. 


OYSTERS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

Thirty  oysters,  one  pint  cream,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon- 
ful  white  pepper,  three  grates  of  nutmeg.  Cook  together  the 
butter  and  flour;  add  the  cream,  stirring  constantly;  when  it 
boils  put  in  the  oysters  and  cook  about  four  minutes,  when 
they  are  plump,  season  and  serve  on  toast  or  crackers. — Ada 
S.  Lewis. 

Coal  In  Paper  Bags  "With  the  Hod  On,"  Sold  by  Grocers,   Is  Warranted 
Satisfactory   by  This   Is   Holmes. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER. 

One  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  cream,  meat  of  a  large  lobster, 
two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  juice  of  a  lemon.  Heat  the  milk  to 
boiling  and  thicken  with  the  flour  and  butter.  Mince  the 
lobster  with  a  sharp  knife,  never  chop  it;  stir  it  into  the  milk 
and  let  it  become  well  heated,  add  to  it  the  raw  cream,  stir  it 
up  once  and  take  from  the  fire;  season,  add  lemon  juice  and 
serve. — Mrs  W.  T.  Lewis. 

Coal  In   Paper  Bags  "With  the  Hod  On,"  Sold  by  Grocers,   Is  Warranted 
Satisfactory   by  This   Is   Holmes. 

SHRIMP  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

Fresh  or  canned  shrimp  may  be  used.  If  canned,  one  can. 
Cook  in  one  tablespoonful  butter  three  minutes,  adding  one- 
half  teasponful  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  and  a  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice.  Set  this  one  side  and  make  a  sauce  by  melting 
one-half  tablespoon  of  butter,  adding  to  this  one-half  teaspoon 
flour,  one-half  cup  cream  stirred  into  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Return  the  shrimp  for  a  moment  to  the  sauce  and  flavor  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  sherry  and  a  sprinkling  of  nutmeg,  if  this 
is  liked.  Serve  with  toast  points  or  points  of  pastry.  Lob- 
sters, oysters  and  clams  are  all  excellent  cooked  this  way. — 
Miss  Elisabeth  Saxton. 

182 


CREAMED  SHRIMPS. 

One  can  shrimp,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  flour,  one  pint  milk,  one  scant  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little 
cayenne.  Cook  together  the  butter  and  flour,  add  the  milk  and 
cook  until  the  sauce  is  smooth ;  put  in  the  shrimps  and  simmer 
until  they  are  heated  through.  Season  and  serve. — Mary  L. 
Buckley. 

Coal  In   Paper  Bags  "With  the  Hod  On,"  Sold  by  Grocers,   Is  Warranted 
Satisfactory  by  This   Is  Holmes. 

BEEF  MINCE. 

Have  a  pound  of  beef  from  the  round  minced  very  fine  and 
free  it  from  all  sinews  and  stringy  bits.  Heat  in  the  blazer  two 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  put  in  the  meat  and  one  tablespoonful 
onion  juice.  Stir  for  three  or  four  minutes  or  until  the  meat 
is  heated  through,  add  salt,  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  serve. — Mrs.  Mae  Simpson. 

CREAMED  SALMON. 
Two  hours  before  it  is  needed  turn  the  contents  of  a  can  of 
salmon  out  upon  a  platter,  pick  it  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  remove 
all  bits  of  bone  or  skin  and  drain  off  the  liquid.  When  you  are 
ready  to  prepare  the  dish,  cook  together  in  the  chafing  dish 
over  hot  water  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  when  they  bubble  put  in  one  cupful  milk  and  stir  until 
you  have  a  smooth  white  sauce.  To  this  add  the  salmon,  stir- 
ring constantly;  season  with  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
three  dashes  of  red  pepper ;  when  the  fish  is  thoroughly  heated, 
add  to  it  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Any  kind  of  fish  may  be 
used  the  same  way. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Besse. 

Coal  In   Paper  Bags  "With  the  Hod  On,"  Sold  by  Grocers,   Is  Warranted 
Satisfactory  by  This   Is  Holmes. 

EGGS  WITH  CHEESE. 

Five  eggs,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  dry  grated  cheese. 
Parmesan  or  old  English  cheese  is  best  for  this.  One  table- 
spoonful butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 

183 


per.  Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  the  cheese,  the  salt  and  pepper; 
have  the  butter  melted  in  the  blazer;  turn  in  the  eggs  and  stir 
until  thick  and  smooth.  Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. — Martha 
Buckley. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  three- 
quarters  cup  thin  cream,  three-quarters  cup  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes,  one-eighth  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  finely 
cut  cheese,  two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  salt,  mustard,  cayenne. 
Put  butter  in  chafing  dish ;  when  melted  add  flour,  pour  on 
gradually  cream,  and  as  soon  as  mixture  thickens  add  toma- 
toes mixed  with  soda,  then  add  cheese,  eggs  and  seasoning  to 
taste.    Serve  on  toast. — Sue  E.  Baldwin. 

Anything  You  Vy/ant  to  Read  You  Can  Get  at  58  Main  St.     If  We  Haven't 
Got   It,  We'll   Get   It,  and    Be  Glad   to. 

ENGLISH  MONKEY. 

One  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  one-half  cup  soft  mild  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  one 
egg,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  cayenne.  Soak  bread 
crumbs  fifteen  minutes  in  milk;  melt  butter,  add  cheese,  and 
wnen  melted  add  soaked  crumbs,  the  egg  shghtly  beat(n  ard 
seasonmgs.  Cook  three  minutes  and  pour  over  toasted  crack- 
ers spread  with  butter. — Mrs.  H.  T.  Rhodes. 

Anything  You  Want  to  Read  You  Can  Get  at  58  Main  St.     If  We  Haven't 
Got  It,  We'll   Get  It,  and   Be  Glad  to. 

SAVORY  LOBSTER. 

Put  into  the  chafing  dish  one  heaping  tablespoonful  butter, 
one  saltspoonful  dry  mustard,  as  much  salt,  and  a  couple  of 
dashes  of  pepper ;  stir  in  the  lobster  next.  The  meat  of  one 
large  or  two  small  ones  may  be  used,  or  the  contents  of  a  can. 
When  it  is  smoking  hot,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Cook 
a  minute  longer  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

184 


CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

One  pint  oysters,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  cream,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoon  butter,  one  and  one-half  tablespoon  entire 
wheat  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pap- 
rika. Remove  all  bits  of  shell.  Prepare  a  sauce  by  blend- 
ing in  the  blazer  the  butter,  flour,  salt  and  paprika ;  then  add 
the  milk  and  cream  and  stir  until  thick  and  smooth ;  then  cook 
the  oysters  until  plump ;  add  to  sauce  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
Joseph  Belcher,  Holbrook. 

Anything  You  Want  to  Read  You  Can  Get  at  58  Main  St.     If  We  Haven't 
Got  It,  We'll  Get  It,  and   Be  Glad  to. 

VENETIAN   EGG. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  one 
pint  can  tomato,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  three  tablespoons 
cheese  cut  fine,  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  three  eggs.  Fry 
onion  in  butter,  then  add  other  ingredients  in  order  men- 
tioned. Break  the  yolks  of  eggs,  but  do  not  beat ;  drop  them 
in  and  cook  a  minute  with  cover  on  before  stirring.  Serve  on 
crackers. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Chisholm. 

CHEESE  FONDU. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  fresh  milk,  one  cup  fine 
bread  crumbs,  two  cups  grated  cheese,  one  saltspoon  dry  must- 
ard, cayenne,  two  eggs.  Put  butter  in  chafing  dish ;  when 
melted  add  milk,  bread  crumbs,  cheese  and  mustard ;  season 
with  cayenne.  Stir  constantly  and  add,  just  before  serving,  the 
two  eggs  beaten  light. — Eleanor  Belcher,  Holbrook. 

Anything  You  Want  to  Read  You  Cart  Get  at  58  Main  St.     If  We  Haven't 
Got  It,  We'll  Get  It,  and   Be  Glad  to. 


TmsisnoLinES 

STORE-  58  MAIN  ST.  OFFICE: 

i8S 


You    Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


i86 


^[ 


^[^f^ 


T 
H 
I 

S 

I 

s 

H 
O 

L 

M 

E 

S'juj 

I 


^[n|[S][n][Sl[n][^ 

m    58  MAIN  STREET   [H 


IHi 


Some 
Merchants 

Make  people  believe  that  gold  dollars 
can  be  bought  for  90  cents,  but  we 
haven't  that  faculty. 
^  OUR  object  is  to  attract  trade 
and  have  our  goods  and  prices  prove 
the  truth  of  every  claim  we  make. 
^  We  buy  the  best  coal  that  is 
mined.  We  take  special  pains  to 
pick  out  by  hand  all  the  slate  we  can 
find.  We  deliver  it  promptly,  and 
just  when  promised.  We  sell  at  the 
lowest  cash  price.  We  want  your 
trade,  and  will  do  our  level  best  to 
deserve  it. 

ENTERPRISE  BLDG. 


llpD 


3^1 


[p]   58  MAIN  STREET  [□] 
^[d][S1[d]1^][dI[57 


llli 


T 

H 

I 

S 

I 

s 

H 
O 
L 
M 

E 

yi  s' 
0 


187 


Pickles,  Relishes  and  Jellies. 

WINTER  PICKLE. 
One  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped,  one    pint    cooked    beets 
chopped,  one  cup  horse  radish,  one  cup  sugar,  four  teaspoons 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper.    Cover  with  hot  vinegar. — Mrs. 
Lena  I,  Hoyt. 

You  Will  Find  the  Best  There  is  In  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

PEPPER  RELISH. 
Four  quarts  green  tomatoes,  four  large  onions,  three  red 
peppers,  three  green  peppers,  chop  very  fine,  a  large  handful 
salt ;  drain  very  dry,  then  add  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon black  pepper,  one  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoon 
ground  allspice,  one-half  pint  mustard  seed,  one-quarter  pint 
celery  seed.  Pour  over  this  three  pints  boiling  vinegar.  Then 
put  in  jar  or  bottle  (I  boil  the  clove  and  allspice  in  a  cheese- 
cloth bag). — Grace  Tribou. 

A  RELISH. 
Eighteen  green  tomatoes  chopped  not  too  fine,  twelve  pickled 
limes  chopped,  two  pounds  granulated  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one 
cup  vinegar,  one  piece  stick  cinnamon,  ten  whole  cloves.    Sim- 
mer four  hours,  then  bottle. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Wood. 

You  Will  Find  the  Best  There  Is  In  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  Main  St. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Chop  fine  six  onions,  six  cucumbers,  one  head  cauliflower, 
one-half  a  small  cabbage,  one-half  peck  green  tomatoes  and 
two  small  red  peppers  from  which  remove  the  seeds;  sprinkle 
with  a  scant  one-half  cup  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning,  drain,  add  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon 
mustard  seed,  two  teaspoons  celery  seed,  two  cups  white  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  pepper  and  cider  vinegar  enough  to  cover  the 
whole.  Put  in  agate  or  porcelain  lined  kettle,  boil  about  half 
an  hour.     Seal  while  hot  in  glass  jars. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Holmes. 

i88 


DUTCH  CHOW-CHOW. 
Two  quarts  green  tomatoes  sliced  and  sprinkled  with  salt; 
let  them  set  over  night.  In  the  morning  chop  them  with  six 
green  peppers,  one  quart  silver  onions  (whole),  one  quart 
cucumber  pickles  sliced,  one  head  cauliflower  broken  and 
scalded  three  minutes,  two  quarts  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar,  four 
tablespoons  mustard  seed.  Mix  one-half  cup  mustard  and  two 
tablespoons  flour  with  cold  vinegar  and  stir  into  the  pickle. 
Cook  until  done. — Mrs.  W.  T.  Cottle. 

You  Will   Find  the  Best  There  Is  in  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  IVIain  St. 

GERMAN  CHOW-CHOW. 

One  quart  onions,  one  quart  green  peppers,  one  quart  green 
tomatoes,  one  cabbage  (four  pounds),  one  cauliflower,  one 
quart  pickles  (do  not  cook  the  pickles).  Chop  fine,  add  one 
cup  salt,  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  half  an  hour,  drain  dry. 

Paste. — One  tablespoon  mustard,  two  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  tablespoon  tumeric ;  take  one  cup  of 
vinegar  and  mix  with  paste ;  boil  two  quarts  of  vinegar  and 
add  to  paste ;  stir  well,  but  do  not  let  it  thicken,  pour  over  dry 
mixture  and  bottle. — Annie  Mitchell. 

PICALILLI. 
One  peck  green  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  add  one  cup  salt; 
stand  over  night  and  drain  in  the  morning;  two  ounces  mus- 
tard seed,  one  ouncf.  clove,  one  ounce  allspice  (clove  and  all- 
spice in  a  bag),  one-half  dozen  green  peppers,  one-half  dozen 
onions,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar.  Cook 
two  hours. — Grace  Trihou. 

You  Will   Find  the  Best  There  Is  in  Postcards  at  Holmes',  58  IVIain  St. 

PICALILLI. 

To  every  two  pecks  of  green  tomatoes  use  the  following: 
One  quart  onions,  three  large  peppers,  one  gallon  vinegar,  one 
pound  sugar,  two  ounces  whole  clove,  two  ounces  allspice,  two 
ounces  stick  cinnamon  (tie  up  in  a  cloth  the  clove,  allspice  and 

189 


cinnamon),  two  ounces  mustard  seed,  two  ounces  celery  seed. 
Dice  the  tomatoes  and  onions.  Salt  them  and  let  stand  over 
night;  in  the  morning  drain  and  cook. — Stella  Gibbs. 

SWEET  PICKLE. 
One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  one  small  cup  salt ;  sprinkle 
and  let  set  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  chop ;  add 
one  quart  vinegar  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  add 
three  pints  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon 
allspice,  one  tablespoon  clove,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  two 
pounds  sugar,  one-half  pound  white  mustard  seed.  Boil  all 
together  for  half  an  hour. — Mrs.  W.  T.  Cottle. 

Holmes'   Peanut  Coal   In   Paper   Bags  "With   the   Hod   On,"   Only  12  cents, 
at  Your  Grocer's. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE. 
One  pint  green  tomatoes,  cut  in  one  inch  thick  squares ; 
sprinkle  with  one  cup  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  in 
the  morning  and  add  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  quart  vine- 
gar; boil  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and  throw  vinegar  and  water 
away.  Take  two  and  one-half  pounds  sugar,  two  and  one-half 
quarts  vinegar  (not  too  sour),  two  quarts  celery  cut  fine,  two 
quarts  small  onions,  six  red  peppers  cut  fine,  two  tablespoons 
each  of  whole  cloves,  allspice,  white  mustard  seed,  celery  seed 
and  cassia  buds  or  bark.  Put  on  fire  and  let  come  to  boil,  then 
add  the  tomato  and  cook  fifteen  minutes ;  be  careful  and  not 
cook  too  much. — Mrs.  Galen  K.  Tyler. 

Holmes'    Peanut  Coal   in    Paper   Bags   "With   the   Hod   On,"   Only  12  cents, 
at  Your  Grocer's. 

CHUTNEY  SAUCE. 
Six  pounds  apples,  peel,  core  and  chop  fine ;  six  green  to- 
matoes, three-quarters  pound  onions,  one-half  pound  raisins, 
six  green  peppers,  all  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  brown  sugar, 
one  quart  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  salt,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  mustard  seed.    Simmer  until  soft. — Mrs.  Ella  Foley. 

igo 


TOMATO  SOY. 
Peel  and  slice  one  peck  ripe  tomatoes  and  eight  onions; 
sprinkle  one  cup  salt  over  it  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  and  add  two  quarts  vinegar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  ginger,  ground  mustard,  clove  and  allspice,  one- 
quarter  tablespoon  cayenne.  Boil  slowly  two  hours.  When 
nearly  done,  add  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one-quarter  pound 
mustard  seed.  Bottle  hot.  Serve  with  cold  meat. — Mrs.  H. 
C.  Vining. 

Holmes'  Peanut  Coal  In   Paper  Bags  "With  the  Hod  On,"  Only  12  cents, 
at  Your  Grocer's. 

WHITE  HOUSE  MUSTARD. 

One  egg,  one  cup  vinegar,  three  level  tablespoonfuls  mus- 
tard, one  level  tablespoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon salt ;  mix  the  dry  ingredients  together ;  then  add  the  well 
beaten  egg,  and  when  well  blended,  add  to  the  vinegar  while 
hot,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  Carrie  E. 
Harlow. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Wash  and  cut  up  two  quarts  tomatoes;  boil  until  tender, 
then  strain  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  one  table- 
spoon salt,  two  cups  vinegar,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  red  pepper.  Boil  until  as  thick  as  you  like  it. — Adrs. 
Etta  O.  Randall. 

PICKLED  RED  PEPPER. 

Cut  up  pepper  after  removing  seeds,  into  strips,  put  in  quart 
jars,  then  add  one  dessertspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar ;  then 
fill  jar  with  cold  vinegar  and  seal. — Mrs.  Heman  Eldredge. 

Holmes'   Peanut  Coal   in    Paper   Bags  "With   the   Hod   On,"   Only  12  cents, 
at  Your  Grocer's. 

PICKLED  PRUNES. 

Wash  two  pounds  of  prunes  in  two  waters  and  then  soak 

in  clean  fresh  water  for  twelve  hours.    Turn  off  all  the  water 

except  about  one-half  cup,  put  this  with    the    prunes   into   a 

crock,  cover  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold  water;  bring  the  water  to 

191 


a  boil  slowly  and  keep  this  up  until  the  prunes  are  smoking 
hot  and  soft,  but  not  broken.  A  pint  of  vinegar  in  which  has 
been  dissolved  one  pound  of  sugar ;  put  over  the  fire  with  one- 
half  ounce  each  of  whole  cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  broken 
into  bits ;  some  think  the  pickle  improved  by  the  addition  of 
one-half  teaspoon  ginger ;  this  is  a  matter  of  taste.  Let  the 
vinegar  boil  up  once ;  put  in  the  prunes  and  cook  gently  for 
five  minutes  after  the  boil  begins  again  and  seal  in  hot  jars. 
They  will  be  eatable  in  about  a  month. — M.  E.  Mowry. 

If  We  Do  Not  Back  Up  Every  One  of  Our  Claims,  Kick,  at  58  Main  St. 

SPICED   PICKLED   PRUNES. 

Four  pounds  prunes  soaked  twenty- four  hours ;  two  pounds 
sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, one-quarter  ounce  ginger.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar  and 
spices  together  for  ten  minutes ;  add  prunes ;  boil  all  together 
until  syrup  is  clear  and  prunes  are  tender. — Mrs.  E.  W. 
Wood. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Five  pounds  currants,  four  pounds  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
clove  and  cinnamon,  one  pint  vinegar.  Boil  two  hours,  then 
put  in  jars. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Sampson,  Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 
Make  quite  a  salt  brine  and  let  the  onions  stand  in  it  over 
night.     In  the  morning  take  out  the  onions  and  cover  with 
white  vinegar.    Let  it  come  to  a  boil.    Put  in  a  little  white  pep- 
per.   Bottle  while  hot. — Susie  A.  Sampson. 

If  We  Do  Not  Back  Up  Every  One  of  Our  Claims,  Kick,  at  58  Mai"  St. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 
Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  two  large  onions,  two  ripe  pep- 
pers, two  tablespoons  salt,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoon  clove,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice,  four  cups  vinegar, 
two  cups  sugar.  Boil  slowly  two  hours. — Mrs.  Leon  Little- 
Held,  Annie  Mitchell,  Mrs.  A.  E.  Packard,  Mrs.  Kate  L. 
Weaver. 

192 


RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Place  a  layer  of  grape  leaves  and  twigs  in  the  bottom 
of  stone  jar,  then  a  layer  of  very  ripe  and  hard  tomatoes ;  con- 
tinue until  required  amount  is  obtained ;  tomatoes  may  be  add- 
ed each  day  as  they  ripen.  Make  a  weak  brine  of  one  table- 
spoon salt  to  one  gallon  water;  cover  with  plate  to  keep  them 
well  under  water.  In  four  weeks  a  fine  pickle  will  be  ready 
which  will  keep  all  winter. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Packard. 

If  We  Do  Not  Back  Up  Every  One  of  Our  Claims,  Kick,  at  58  Main  St. 

SPICED  PEARS. 

One-half  peck  pears,  one  quart  vinegar,  two  pounds  sugar, 
two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  ground  clove,  one  nut- 
meg. Cook  until  a  broom  corn  will  go  through  them.  Put 
spice  in  a  bag,  as  it  looks  much  nicer. — Grace  Tribou. 

CITRON  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Cut  and  pare  the  citron,  discard  the  soft  center  and  cut  into 
slices  one-half  to  three-quarters  inch  thick.  Boil  one  ounce 
alum  in  one  gallon  water;  pour  on  the  citron  and  allow  it  to 
stand  several  hours  on  the  back  of  stove.  Drain  and  put  into 
cold  water;  when  cold,  drain  and  cook  one-half  hour  (or  until 
tender)  in  the  following  syrup  which  you  have  already  pre- 
pared. To  eight  pounds  of  fruit  allow  four  pounds  best 
brown  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  cup  whole  mixed  spices ; 
allspice,  cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  (less  of  the  cloves  than  of 
others).  Put  spices  in  a  bag  and  boil  with  vinegar  and  sugar 
and  skim  well. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Keith. 

If  We  Do  Not  Back  Up  Every  One  of  Our  Giaims,  Kick,  at  58  r\/iain  St. 

PICKLED  BEETS. 

One  quart  vinegar,  two  cups  sugar;  have  it  boiling  hot;  fill 
jar  with  hot  boiled  beets  (small  ones  are  the  best)  ;  then  pour 
in  the  hot  vinegar  and  seal  tight. — Lizzie  Hunt,  Short  Falls, 
N.H. 

193 


CHILI  SAUCE  WITHOUT  SPICE. 
Six  large  ripe  tomatoes,  one  good  sized  onion,  two  green 
peppers  chopped,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  salt, 
one  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  water ;  boil  slowly  one  and  one- 
half  hours. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Burns,  Plymouth. 

Do  You    Use    Holmes'    Kitchen    Racks? 

SWEET  PICKLED  CHERRIES. 
Choose  large,  firm  cherries,  and  wipe  each  one  carefully; 
remove  the  stems.  For  ten  pounds  of  cherries  allow  seven 
pounds  granulated  sugar,  three  pints  vinegar  and  three  gills 
of  water.  Put  sugar,  vinegar  and  water  in  a  preserving  kettle 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  Skim  this  syrup  and  drop  in  the  cherries. 
Cook  very  slowly  until  the  cherries  are  very  tender,  but  not 
broken.  Remove  the  fruit  with  a  perforated  spoon  and  pack 
in  heated  jars;  then  boil  the  syrup  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
thick;  fill  the  jars  with  this  and  seal. — Anna  L.  Mozv^ry. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 
Seven  pounds  peaches,  four  pounds  sugar,  one  quart  vin- 
egar ;  stick  two  cloves  in  each  peach ;  boil  vinegar  and  sugar 
with  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon ;  add  fruit  and  cook  until  tender ; 
remove  fruit  and  boil  syrup  down  one-half.  Can. — Mrs.  A.  C. 
Gibbs. 

Do  You    Use   Holmes'    Kitchen    Racks? 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 
One  quart  pickles  cut  in  cubes ;  one  quart  small  green  to- 
matoes, one  quart  small  onions,  one  head  cauliflower,  four 
green  peppers  cut  fine.  Make  a  brine  of  four  quarts  of  water 
and  one  pint  salt;  let  soak  twenty-four  hours;  then  heat  just 
enough  to  scald ;  turn  into  a  colander  to  drain.  Mix  one  cup 
flour,  six  tablespoons  ground  mustard  and  one  tablespoon 
tumeric  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste; 
add  one  cup  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in 
all ;  boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  pickles 
and  cook  until  heated  through. — Stella  Gibbs. 

194 


MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

One  cauliflower,  two  large  bunches  of  celery,  one  quart 
silver  skin  onions,  one  quart  green  tomatoes,  one  white  cab- 
bage, three  green  peppers,  two  quarts  vinegar,  one-quarter 
pound  mustard,  one  cup  flour,  one  coffee  cup  sugar,  one-half 
teacup  salt,  one  ounce  celery  seed  and  one-quarter  ounce  of 
tumeric.  Chop  cabbage  and  onions ;  cut  the  tops  off  the  cauli- 
flower and  chop  the  stalks  fine ;  boil  the  tomatoes,  stalks  of 
cauliflower  and  peppers  in  a  little  water  until  tender;  drain 
oft'  water  and  mix  with  cabbage,  etc.  Chop  the  tomatoes  and 
peppers  and  cut  celery  in  small  pieces.  Boil  vinegar,  mix  flour, 
mustard,  tumeric,  sugar  and  salt  with  water  like  thin  griddle 
cakes ;  mix  into  the  boiling  vinegar,  cooking  until  thick.  Then 
put  in  vegetables  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Put  in  jars.  This  is 
fine. — Mrs.  Carrie  E.  Harlow. 

Do  You   Use   Holmes'    Kitchen   Racks? 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

Five  quarts  vinegar,  four  level  cups  sugar,  one  level  cup 
mustard,  one  heaping  cupful  flour,  two  ounces  tumeric.  Mix 
dry  ingredients  and  moisten  with  cold  vinegar.  Stir  this  into 
boiling  vinegar,  and  boil  until  thick  (about  five  minutes).  Stir 
constantly.  Use  any  vegetable  except  cabbage ;  onions, 
cucumbers,  green  tomatoes,  cauliflower,  green  peppers,  string 
beans,  limes,  etc.  Prepare  vegetables  and  let  stand  in  weak 
brine  twenty-four  hours.  Cook  a  little  in  same  brine,  drain, 
add  paste  and  pack  in  jars  or  pots. — Mrs.  E.  F.  O'Neill. 

Do   You    Use    Holmes'    Kitchen    Ractcs? 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

One  and  one-half  pecks  ripe  tomatoes,  two  cups  vinegar, 
three  tablespoons  salt,  one  cup  sugar,  one  level  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, one-quarter  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  three  hours. 
— Grace  Tribou. 

195 


FRED  McLAUTHLEN'S  TARTAR  SAUCE. 
Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  pinch  of  pep- 
per, pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one 
pint  of  salad  oil,  pickles.  Mix  mustard,  pepper,  and  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  then  turn  in  slowly  the  oil,  and  beat  to  a  paste. 
Then  beat  in  sugar,  salt,  and  lemon  juice,  also.  Cut  up 
pickles  last. 

TO  TEST  JELLIES. 

A  good  and  quick  way  to  test  jelly  to  see  if  it  is  done,  is  to 
drop  a  little  into  a  glass  of  cold  water  (ice  water  if  possible), 
and  if  it  falls  to  the  bottom  immediately  the  jelly  is  done. — 
Mrs.  A.  Morton  Packard. 

Over  4,000  People  Buy  Their  Coal  of  Holmes,  58  Main  St.     Why? 

CURRANT  JELLY. 
Bruise  and  squeeze  the  currants  until  all  the  juice  is  out  of 
them,  and  strain  through  flannel.  Put  the  juice  on  to  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes;  strain  again  and  measure,  allowing  the  same 
measure  of  sugar.  Put  juice  on  to  boil  again  and  when  it 
thickens,  add  sugar  and  boil  live  minutes.  Remove  scum  and 
pour  into  glasses. — Annie  Mitchell. 

SPICED  CRAB  APPLE  JELLY. 
Quarter  and  wash  the  apples ;  cover  them  with  water ;  cook 
until  tender;  strain  through  a  cheesecloth.  Put  back  into 
kettle,  add  vinegar  to  taste,  a  small  handful  of  cloves  and  stick 
of  cinnamon  tied  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth.  Boil  twenty  min- 
utes ;  to  each  cup  of  juice  add  one  cup  sugar  that  has  been 
heated  in  oven;  add  this  to  juice  and  boil  five  minutes;  skim 
and  pour  into  tumblers. — Mrs.  Mae  E.  Simpson. 

Over  4,000  People  Buy  Their  Coal  of  Holmes,  58  Main  St.     Why? 

BEACH  PLUM  JELLY. 
Wash  plums,  put  in  kettle  and  cover  with  water.  Cook  until 
very  tender;  drain  through  jelly  bag;  add  a  bowl  of  sugar  to 
each  bowl  of  juice  and  cook  until  it  will  jelly  when  cool,  which 
can  be  determined  only  by  trying  in  small  quantity. — C.  E. 
Byrnes,  Plymouth. 

196 


PINEAPPLE  PRESERVE. 

Shred  pineapple  with  silver  fork;  to  one  bowl  of  apple  add 
two-thirds  bowl  sugar;  sprinkle  in  layers  and  let  stand  over 
night ;  add  one  cup  water  and  cook  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  Mabel 
H.  Fisher. 

Over  4,000  People  Buy  Their  Coal  of  Holmes,  58  Main  St.     Why? 

CONSERVE. 

Eight  quarts  grapes  after  being  picked  from  stem ;  prepare 
as  for  jelly;  to  three  and  one-half  pints  juice  add  four  oranges; 
chop  pulp  and  rind;  add  sugar  to  equal  amounts  of  both;  two 
pounds  seedless  raisins  steamed  twenty  minutes.  Boil  grape 
juice  and  oranges  twenty  minutes ;  add  sugar  and  raisins ;  boil 
all  together  five  minutes. — Frances  M.  Gibbs. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

Put  in  jars  one  cup  sugar,  then  fill  jars  with  peaches  which 
have  skins  removed,  leaving  a  few  to  each  jar  with  stones  in ; 
fill  jars  with  cold  water  and  set  in  boiler  with  cold  water  cover- 
ing one-half  of  jar;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  cook  twenty  min- 
utes ;  remove  covers  and  fill  with  boiling  water.  Seal. — Mrs. 
Mabel  H.  Fisher. 

Over  4,000  People  Buy  Their  Coal  of  Holmes,  58  Main  St.     Why? 

GRAPE  PRESERVE. 

Pick  over  and  mash  grapes ;  slip  pulp  from  skin ;  cook  skins 
in  water  to  cover  and  pulp  in  its  own  juice  in  another  kettle, 
until  soft  and  free  from  seeds.  Rub  pulp  through  a  fine  sieve 
and  when  skins  are  boiled  nearly  dry,  add  to  pulp.  Measure 
and  allow  equal  measure  of  sugar ;  put  the  fruit  on  to  boil  and 
cook  twenty  minutes,  stirring  often ;  then  add  one-quarter  of 
sugar  and  boil  five  minutes  longer ;  add  rest  of  sugar  and  boil 
again  until  skins  are  tender. — Annie  Mitchell. 

197 


PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE. 
After  removing  the  skin  and  eyes  from  the  pineapple,  grate 
the  pulp  from  the  core ;  weigh  pulp  and  juice  and  to  each 
pound  allow  from  three-quarters  to  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon;  let  the  pineapple  simmer  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  scalded ;  then  add  the  sugar  which  has  been 
heated  in  the  oven,  and  the  lemon  juice,  and  cook  until  when 
tried  on  a  cold  saucer  no  watery  liquid  separates  from  it.  Put 
in  tumblers  and  cover  as  jelly. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

Get  Your  Diary  at  Holmes'  Before  You   Keep  It,  and  Then   Keep  It  After 

You   Get  It. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 
One  peck  quince  parings  and  four  whole  quinces  cut  up 
small;  cover  with  water  and  let  stand  over  night;  in  morning 
cook  slowly  until  soft,  but  not  mushy;  drain  in  jelly  bag;  to 
one  cup  syrup  add  one  cup  sugar ;  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes ; 
skim  and  put  in  glasses. — Mrs.  A.  H. 

TRANSPARENT  ORANGE  MARMALADE. 
Six  California  oranges,  three  lemons;  cut  the  oranges  in 
very  thin  slices,  but  do  not  peel  them;  peel  the  lemons,  cut 
them  in  wheels  and  mix  with  the  oranges.  Measure  and  add 
three  times  as  much  cold  water  as  fruit ;  then  let  stand  till  next 
day.  The  next  day  cook  until  the  bits  of  orange  peel  feel  soft 
between  the  thumb  and  finger;  let  stand  until  another  day. 
The  third  day  measure  again ;  add  equal  amount  of  sugar  and 
boil  until  the  juice  jellies.     Put  in  tumblers. — Jennie  Howard. 

Get  Your  Diary  at  Holmes'   Before  You   Keep  It,  and  Then   Keep  It  After 

You   Get  It. 

ORANGE    MARMALADE. 
Six  oranges  and  three  lemons ;  slice  very  thin ;  soak  thirty- 
six  hours  in  three  quarts  water ;  let  simmer  two  hours ;  add  six 
pounds    sugar    and    cook    one    hour. — Mrs.    Arthur    Morse, 
Plymouth. 

198 


ORANGE    MARMALADE. 

One  dozen  oranges,  six  lemons ;  cut  the  peel  into  shreds 
(with  shears)  ;  cover  peel  with  water  and  let  stand  all  night; 
pour  off  water  in  the  morning,  add  pulp  and  peel  to  seven  pints 
water,  and  boil  down  to  half  quantity ;  add  eight  pounds  sugar 
and  boil  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  Francis  H.  Erskine. 

Get  Your  Diary  at  Holmes'   Before  You   Keep  It,  and  Then   Keep  It  After 

You  Get  It. 

MARMALADE. 

Slice  very  fine  one  grape  fruit,  one  orange,  one  lemon.  Take 
three  times  as  much  water  as  you  have  fruit;  let  stand  over 
night;  in  the  morning  put  on  the  stove,  let  boil  hard  for  ten 
minutes ;  let  stand  over  another  night ;  in  the  morning  take  as 
much  sugar  as  you  have  water  and  fruit;  cook  until  it  jellies, 
or  two  and  one-half  hours.  Dip  into  tumblers. — Mrs.  Galen 
K.  Tyler. 

APPLE  AND  CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Quarter  and  wash  the  apples,  leaving  in  cores ;  add  one- 
third  as  much  cranberies  as  you  have  apple ;  add  the  juice  of 
one  or  two  lemons,  according  to  quantity ;  some  thin  shav- 
ings of  lemon  peel ;  cok  all  together  until  tender.  Strain 
through  a  cheese  cloth  or  jelly  bag,  letting  it  drip  over 
night.  To  each  cup  of  juice  allow  one  cup  sugar.  Put  juice 
on  range ;  let  boil  twenty  minutes ;  add  sugar  which  has 
been  heated  in  the  oven,  and  boil  five  minutes.  This  makes 
a  delicate  jelly. —  Mrs.  R.  R.  Ship  pen. 

Get  Your  Diary  at  Holmes'   Before  You   Keep  It,  and  Then   Keep  It  After 

You   Get  It. 

CURRANT  AND  RASPBERRY  PRESERVE. 

Use  one-third  currants  and  two-thirds  raspberries;  about 
three-quarters  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit;  cook  a 
few  moments.    Very  nice  with  meat. — Mrs.  Abby  Savage. 

199 


CURRANT  JELLY. 
Put  currants  in  kettle  with  one  cup  water ;  cook  gently  until 
fruit  turns  white;  strain  carefully;  to  one  pint  juice  add  one 
pound  sugar ;  cook  thirty  minutes ;  strain  and  set  in  sun. — Mrs. 
F.  M.  Gibbs. 

stationery,  Pens,  Pencils,  Ink  and  Postage  Stamps  at  Holmes'. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY. 
Wash  the  apples  and  remove  the  blossom  end ;  cut  in  small 
pieces,  but  do  not  peel  or  core  as  the  skins  and  seeds  improve 
the  quality  and  color  of  jelly.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook 
gently  until  soft.  When  apples  are  soft  and  liquid  red.  pour 
into  jelly  bag  and  let  drip  over  night ;  in  morning  boil  juice  ten 
minutes,  then  strain  again  and  measure.  Allow  one-half  pound 
sugar  to  one  pint  juice ;  boil  again  until  it  thickens ;  skim  and 
pour  into  glasses. — A.  H.  Mitchell. 

CURRANT  PRESERVE. 
Five  pounds  stemmed  currants,  five  pounds  sugar,  five  large 
oranges  peeled  and  cut  into  bits ;  two  and  one-half  pounds 
seedless  raisins;  mix;  boil  thirty  minutes.     Seal  while  hot. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE. 
To  one-quarter  pound  butter  add  one  pound  loaf  sugar 
broken  in  small  bits,  six  eggs  (leaving  out  two  whites),  juice 
of  three  lemons  with  their  rinds  grated ;  put  in  pan,  simmer 
till  sugar  is  dissolved  and  begins  to  thicken  like  honey.  When 
cool  put  in  jars.  Will  keep  seven  years. — Ada  A.  Brewster, 
Kingston,  Mass. 

stationery,  Pens,  Pencils,  Ink  and  Postage  Stamps  at  Holmes'. 

QUINCE  HONEY. 
One  generous  cup  sugar,  one  scant  cup  water;  boil  briskly 
twenty  minutes ;  pare  and  grate  one  large  quince ;  add  to  syrup 
and  boil  five  minutes  more ;  this  makes  two  glasses.    Delicious 
with  griddle  cakes. — Mary  J.  Erskine. 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with   Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


You    Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


202 


y» 


IF 


«!>£. 


t^  Ij    IF      drenching      rains,     gusty 
^J      showers  and   dribbling  squalls 

-li  were  airy  myths;  if  the  jovial 
sun  and  spright[x  winds  would  fra- 
ternize with  our  coal  piles  by  day 
and  night;  if  a  scarcity  of  coal  in  the 
busiest  season  of  the  year  was  an 
imaginary  grievance  and  not  a  pitiless 
reality;  if  evolution  was  the  tap-root 
of  our  coal  mines,  and  coal  developed 
into  just  the  grades  and  sizes  most 
in  demand;  if  customers  would  art- 
lessly surrender  their  opinion  of  what 
they  think  they  must  have — their 
undoubted  right — and  accept  what 
we  can  make  the  best  profit  on,  then 
could 

"We  eat  the  lotus  of  the  Nile 
And  drink  the  poppies  of  Cathay 

^  As  it  is,  we  try  hard   to  sell   the 

best  coal  in  the  market  for  the  lowest 

price,  and  suit  all  tastes.   We  believe 

a  pleased   customer  is  the  best  ad- 


203 


Sandwiches. 

SARDINE  CANAPES. 

Six  sardines,  remove  skins,  bones,  heads  and  tails.  Yolks 
of  two  hard  boiled  eggs.  Rub  sardines  and  egg  yolks  to  a 
paste,  adding  gradually  one  tablespoonful  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  crackers 
or  rounds  of  bread  for  canapes. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Hoyt. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Shamokin    Suits.      Money    Back    If    Not   as    Repre- 
sented, at  58   Main  St. 

CHEESE  CANAPES. 

Allow  three  eggs  to  remain  in  water  at  boiling  point  for 
forty-five  minutes.  When  cold,  remove  yolks  and  cream  with 
three  Neufchatel  cheeses,  one  tablespoon  softened  butter  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  rich  milk;  add  paprika  and  salt 
to  taste  while  creaming.  Chop  twelve  olives  and  the  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Add  to  the  mixture.  Spread  on  crackers  as 
canapes.  This  mixture  is  very  nice  used  as  filling  for  brown 
bread  sandwiches. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Hoyt. 

PRUNE  CANAPES. 

Saute  rounds  of  bread  in  butter ;  add  one  cup  of  prune  puree 
and  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Serve  on  bread  and  garnish 
with  beaten  cream. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Bidlivant. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft    Shamokin    Suits.      Money    Back    if    Not    as    Repre- 
sented,  at  58   Main   St. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

With  a  cake  cutter,  cut  slices  of  bread  round ;  cover  with 
unsweetened  cream ;  mash  some  peanuts  fine  and  sprinkle 
thickly  over  the  cream. — Mrs.  Anna  L.  Mowry. 

204 


LETTUCE  SANDWICHES. 
Take  the  white  part  of  lettuce,  wash  and  wipe  perfectly  dry 
and  chill.  Have  ready  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  remove  the 
yolks,  put  them  through  sieve  and  rub  to  perfectly  smooth 
paste  with  four  tablespoonfuls  very  thick  cream.  Add  one- 
half  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  stir  in  about  four  table- 
spoonfuls  whipped  cream.  Season  with  a  little  red  pepper; 
add  one  teaspoonful  salt;  cover  slices  of  bread  with  leaves  of 
lettuce ;  then  put  on  a  goodly  quantity  of  dressing ;  cover  with 
another  slice  of  bread.  This  may  be  served  in  squares  or  long 
narrow  pieces. — Mary  L.  Buckley. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Shamokin    Suits.      Money    Back    If    Not   as    Repre- 
sented, at  58   Main  St. 

RUSSIAN  SANDWICHES. 

Spread  slices  of  bread  with  Neufchatel  cheese.  Free  olives 
from  stones  and  chop  quite  fine.  Make  a  boiled  dressing  as 
follows :  Into  a  double  boiler  put  one  teaspoon  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  six  teaspoons  vinegar,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  of  mustard,  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  stir  this  to- 
gether, add  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  cook  until  it  thickens; 
add  as  much  of  the  chopped  olives  to  this  dressing  as  you  de- 
sire and  put  this  filling  between  the  slices  of  bread  and  cheese. 
Each  slice  of  bread  is  spread  with  the  cheese. — Mrs.  Geo.  R. 
Washburn. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Butter  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
mixed  with  chutney,  sprinkled  with  the  chopped  whites  of  hard 
boiled  eggs,  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. — Martha  Buckley. 

Holmes'    Special    Soft   Sliamokin    Suits.      IVIoney    Back    if    Not   as    Repre- 
sented,  at  58   IVlain   St. 

MUTTON  CLUB  SANDWICH. 
With  a  cake  cutter,  cut  brown  bread  into  rounds.     Chop 
one-half  pound  cold  boiled  mutton  quite  fine;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  olive  oil,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,   one  saltspoonful 

205 


paprika.  Peel  four  or  five  quite  solid  tomatoes ;  cut  them  into 
slices  and  push  out  seeds.  Put  a  slice  of  tomato  on  top  of  a 
round  of  bread ;  fill  the  space  from  which  you  have  taken  the 
seeds  with  the  mutton  mixture ;  put  on  top  of  the  tomato  a 
lettuce  leaf  and  in  the  centre  of  that  one  teaspoonful  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Good  for  lunch  on  a  warm  day. — Mary  West- 
berg. 

Brockton  Souvenir  Postcards.     Over  200  Views  at  Holmes'. 

HOME  MADE  PEANUT  BUTTER. 
Take  three  quarts  of  good  roasted  peanuts,  which  can  be 
bought  at  the  stands  for  twenty-five  cents.  Remove  the  out- 
side shell  and  skin,  using  only  the  white  part  and  nothing  else. 
First  put  them  through  the  coarsest  then  through  the  finest 
chopper.  It  heats,  and  requires  patience  to  get  it  through  the 
second  time.  Press  it  firmly  into  tumblers  immediately  before 
it  gets  cold.  It  will  be  as  smooth  as  any  butter  and  tastes  un- 
like that  which  you  buy,  also  more  expensive.  Fine  on  butter 
thins  or  Uneeda  biscuit.  I  use  the  "New  Connecticut  Food 
Chopper." — Mary  Packard. 

SARDINE  AND  HERB  BUTTER  FOR  SANDWICHES. 
Wash  six  or  eight  Norwegian  sardines,  split,  remove  the 
bones  and  mash  fine.  Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add 
one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  one-half  teaspoon  minced  tara- 
gon,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  and 
the  sardines.  Rub  together  until  thoroughly  blended. — Mrs. 
Mary  L.  Wade. 

Brockton  Souvenir  Postcards.     Over  200  View^s  at  Holmes'. 

LOBSTER  MAYONNAISE  SANDWICH. 

Into  one-half  cupful  of  finely  minced  lobster,  stir  two  table- 
spoonfuls  mayonnaise  dressing;  season  to  taste  with  cayenne 
and  salt,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  if  it  seems  to  be  needed.  Se- 
lect bread  a  day  old  for  the  purpose,  butter  it  light  on  the  loaf 
and  cut  very  thin. — S.  Edna  Baldzvin. 

206 


PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 
Reduce  peanuts  to  a  powder  and  stir  in  mayonnaise  mixed 
with  cream  cheese  and  spread  between  crackers  or  slices  of 
thin  buttered  brown  bread. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Holmes. 

Brockton  Souvenir  Postcards.     Over  200  Views  at  Holmes'. 

CELERY  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 
Put  four  eggs  into  warm  water;  bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  keep  there  without  boiling  for  fifteen  minutes.  Take  the 
white  portion  from  one  head  of  celery,  wash  and  chop  it  very 
fine.  Remove  the  shells  from  the  hard  boiled  eggs  and  either 
chop  them  very  fine  or  put  through  a  vegetable  press,  and 
mix  with  them  the  celery ;  add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt  and 
a  dash  of  pepper.  Butter  the  bread  before  you  cut  it  from  the 
loaf.  After  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity  cut,  put  over  each 
slice  a  layer  of  the  mixed  egg  and  celery;  put  right  in  the 
centre  of  this  one  teaspoonful  mayonnaise  dressing.  Put  two 
slices  together  and  press  them  lightly.  Trim  off  the  crusts, 
and  cut  the  sandwiches  into  pieces  about  two  inches  wide  and 
the  length  of  the  slices. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Besse. 

CELERY  SANDWICHES. 
Mix  one  cup  of  tender  celery  stalks,  one-quarter  cup  each  of 
English  walnuts  and  olives  chopped  fine ;  moisten  with  mayon- 
naise dressing  and  spread  between  slices  of  brown  bread  cut 
in  rounds  with  a  cooky  cutter. — Mrs.  A.   Wesley  Stetson. 

MACAROON  SANDWICH. 
Press  together  two  very  fresh  macaroons  with  a  liberal  layer 
of  cream  cheese  between.    A  nice  five-o'clock-tea  sandwich. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Senter. 

Brockcton  Souvenir  Postcards.     Over  200  Views  at  Holmes'. 

BAKED  BEAN  SANDWICH. 
Press  one-half  cup  cold  baked  beans  through  a  sieve,  add  one 
tablespoon  tomato  catsup,   one-half  teaspoon   made   mustard, 
and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.    Place  between  slices  of  brown 
bread  or  whole  wheat  bread. — Mrs.  E.  F.  O'Neil. 

207 


ONION  SANDWICH. 

One  cup  finely  cut  onion;  cover  with  strong  salt  water  for 
three  hours ;  drain  and  mix  with  a  good  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  with  a  generous  supply 
of  the  mixture  between.    Very  delicious. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Taylor. 

All  North- Bound  Cars  Stop  In   Front  of  58  Main  St. 

GERMAN  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  rye  bread,  butter  before  you  take  them 
from  the  loaf.  Spread  each  slice  with  a  thin  layer  of  limburger 
cheese ;  cut  bologna  sausage  into  the  thinnest  possible  slices ; 
cover  the  cheese  with  the  sliced  sausage ;  then  cover  with  an- 
other slice  of  bread ;  press  the  two  together ;  do  not  remove 
the  crusts.  Rye  bread  can  be  bought  at  the  Swedish  bakeries. 
— Mrs.  Walter  Bradford. 

DEVILLED  SANDWICH. 

Chop  one-quarter  pound  of  cold  boiled  tongue  very  fine ; 
add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  a  dash  of  red  pepper, 
one  teaspoonful  Worcestershire  sauce  and  one  saltspoonful 
of  paprika ;  mix  and  add  the  hard  boiled  yolks  of  three  eggs 
that  have  been  pressed  through  a  sieve.  Put  this  between  thin 
slices  of  bread  and  butter. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Mowry. 

All  North- Bound  Cars  Stop  In   Front  of  58  Main  St. 

CREAM  OF  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Take  sufficient  white  meat  of  chicken  to  make  one-half  cup ; 
chop  and  pound  it;  reduce  it  to  a  paste.  Put  one  teaspoonful 
granulated  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water;  then 
stand  it  over  the  fire  until  it  has  dissolved.  Whip  one-half  pint 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  the  gelatine  to  the  chicken ;  add  one 
teaspoonful  grated  horse-radish  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Stir  this  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  carefully  the  cream 
and  stand  it  away  until  very  cold.  When  ready  to  make  the 
sandwiches,  butter  the  bread  and  cut  the  slices  a  little  thicker 

208 


than  the  usual  slices  for  sandwiches.  Cover  each  slice  with 
this  cream  mixture ;  trim  off  the  crusts  or  cut  sandwiches  into 
fancy  shapes.  Garnish  the  top  with  olives  cut  into  rings.  In 
the  centre  of  each  sandwich  make  just  a  little  mound  of  capers ; 
each  sandwich  may  be  garnished  in  a  different  way.  Little 
pieces  of  celery,  with  the  white  top  attached,  also  make  a  pretty 
garnish.  These  sandwiches  are  not  covered  with  a  second  slice 
of  bread. — Mrs.  Veronica  Eldredge. 

All  North- Bound  Cars  Stop  In   Front  of  58  Main  St. 

COLD  BEEF  SANDWICH. 

Take  the  remains  of  cold  roasted  beef  and  chop  very  fine; 
put  it  into  a  bowl.  For  each  one-half  pint  of  meat  take  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  tomato  catsup,  one  tea- 
spoonful  Worcestershire  sauce  and  one  teaspoonful  melted 
butter.  Mix  this  well  together  and  put  between  slices  of  bread 
thinly  buttered.  Whole  wheat  bread  may  be  used. — Mrs. 
Stina  Johnson. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  fine  one-quarter  pound  soft  American  cheese,  put  into 
a  saucepan ;  add  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg  beaten  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  cream;  one  saltspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  and 
one-half  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Stir  the  cheese  over 
the  fire  until  it  is  thoroughly  melted ;  take  from  fire  and  when 
cool  spread  it  between  the  slices  of  bread. — Ada  S.  Lezms. 

All   North- Bound   Cars  Stop  in    Front  of  58   Main   St. 

CHEESE  AND  NUT  SANDWICH  FILLING. 

Mix  to  a  paste  one-half  cupful  of  pot  cheese,  one  teaspoon- 
ful soft  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  thick  cream  and  a  seasoning 
of  salt  and  pepper.  Add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  finely 
chopped  English  walnut  meats. — Mrs.  J.  I.  Merritt. 

209 


WORKMAN'S  CHEESE  SANDWICH. 
Cut  slices  of  brown  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Do  not 
remove  the  crusts.  Take  one-half  pint  cottage  cheese,  press 
it  through  a  sieve ;  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  thick  cream. 
Beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Spread  each  slice  of  bread 
thickly  with  the  cheese  mixture ;  then  put  a  very  thin  slice  of 
white  bread  on  top  of  the  cheese  and  put  the  sandwich  to- 
gether. Have  the  outside  brown  bread,  with  a  layer  of  cheese 
on  each,  and  between  the  layers  of  cheese  a  slice  of  white 
bread. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Merritt. 

Holmes'  Peanut  Coal.     Nothing  Like  It  for  Economy.     58  Main  St. 

SPANISH  PEPPERS  AND  CREAM  CHEESE 
SANDWICH. 
One  cheese,  two    Spanish    peppers    finely    chopped;    add 
enough  of  the  liquid  to  moisten.     Spread  between  thin  layers 
of  bread  or  crackers. — Miss  Elizabeth  Biddlccome. 

CELERY  SANDWICHES. 
■  Mix  together  one  cup  finely  chopped  celery  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  chopped  apples.      Moisten    with    mayonnaise    and 
spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  white  bread. — Mrs.    E.    F. 
O'Ncil. 

SANDWICH  MIXTURE. 
A  nice  sandwich  mixture  calls  for  chopped  preserved  ginger 
and  pecan  nut  meats,  finely  cut  orange  peel,  ginger  syrup  and 
vinegar;    spread    between    slices   of   buttered    bread    or    thin 
crackers. — Rosa  L.  Minor. 

Holmes'  Peanut  Coal.     Nothing  Like  It  for  Economy.     58  IVlain  St. 

DRESSING  FOR  SANDWICHES. 
One-half  pound  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  dry  mus- 
tard mixed  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the  yolk  of 
one  tgg\  mix  all  together  and  when  cold  spread  on  the  bread 
like  butter,  before  adding  the  meat.  Enough  for  thirty  sand- 
wiches.— Mrs.  E.  Clinton  Andrews. 


FRUIT  CHEESE  FOR  SANDWICHES. 

One  pound  figs,  one  pound  dates,  one  pound  raisins,  one-half 
pound  walnut  meats,  one-half  pound  pecan  meats,  one-half 
pound  almond  meats  one-fourth  pound  Brazilian  nut  meats. 
Grind  fine  and  add  a  little  salt.  Pack  in  glass.  This  makes  a 
large  quantity. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Poole. 

Holmes'  Peanut  Coal.     Nothing  Like  It  for  Economy.     58  Main  St. 

BROWN  BREAD  SANDWICHES. 

Take  thin  slices  of  brown  bread  and  spread  with  the  follow- 
ing mixture :  Roquefort  cheese,  a  piece  as  large  as  a  good 
sized  egg;  to  that  add  a  teaspoon  butter,  beat  until  creamy; 
then  add  one  teaspoon  of  Halford  sauce  and  one  tablespoon 
port  wine.    Beat  the  whole  well. — Mrs.  Alice  M.  Hozvard. 

BRIDGE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  brown  bread  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  very 
thinly  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts.  Cut  cream 
cheese  in  slices  the  same  thickness  as  the  bread  and  put  be- 
tween it.  The  sandwiches  can  be  cut  in  any  form  desired. — 
Mrs.  F.  E.  Harrison. 

Holmes'  Peanut  Coal.     Nothing  Like  It  for  Economy.     58  Main  St. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Eight  eggs  boiled  fifteen  minutes ;  when  cool,  shell  and  chop 
fine ;  then  add  one-fourth  pound  melted  butter,  salad  dressing 
enough  to  make  the  mixture  soft  and  moist ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

Salad  Dressing: — Four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoon 
mixed  mustard,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  eight  table- 
spoons sharp  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  pepper,  one  table- 
spoon sugar;  cook  until  it  thickens.  Thin  with  cream  when 
cool. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Park. 


HAM  SANDWICHES. 

One  egg,  one-fourth  saltspoon  cayenne  pepper,  one  small 
teaspoon  mustard,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
four  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt ;  beat  tgg 
thoroughly,  add  pepper,  mustard  and  sugar;  melt  butter  and 
add  that  with  the  vinegar.  Stir  thoroughly  together,  put  in 
small  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it  thickens ;  cool  it,  and  if 
too  thick  to  run  add  a  little  milk  until  it  is  of  the  consistency 
of  cream.  Chop  ham  fine  and  mix  with  the  dressing. — Mrs. 
R.  B.  Grover. 


What  is  a  Sr*^ 
^  Syllogism  ? 

A  syllogism  is  a  logical  state- 
ment, divided  into  these  parts; 
major  premise,  minor  premise 
and  conclusion. 

here:  is  one: 

Major  Premise.— The  best  coal 
is  the  cheapest. 

Minor  Premise. — Holmes'  coals, 
being  pure  and  clean,  are  "best." 
Conclusion.  —  Buying  Holmes' 
coals  is  profitable  and"cheapest." 
"A  pleased  customer  is  the  best 
advertisement,"  and  Holmes' 
customers  are  pleased. 

58  MAIN  STREET 


^^S^^^^S^B^^^^^* 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


213 


214 


Left-Overs. 

JAPANESE  ROLL. 
Make  a  rich  baking  powder  biscuit  dough  and  roll  out  one- 
fourth  inch  in  thickness.  Chop  cold  cooked  beef  and  spread 
on  the  dough ;  put  bits  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  sprinkling 
of  flour  in  the  meat.  Roll  up  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 
— Mrs.  Abby  Savage. 

Good  Luck  With  Your  Cooking  If  You  Use  Hoimes'  Coal. 

BEAN  LOAF. 

One  pint  baked  beans,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and 
salt,  small  piece  of  butter,  one  cup  stewed  tomatoes.  Butter 
bread  tin  and  line  with  crumbs,  pour  in  mixture  and  bake  one 
hour. 

Tomato  Sauce : — Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  tablespoon 
flour,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  pint  strained  tomatoes;  melt 
butter,  add  flour,  then  sugar  and  last  tomato  juice ;  let  it  come 
to  a  boil.    Pour  over  loaf. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Hart. 

HAM  NEWBURG. 
Slice  bread  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  cut  a  circular  piece 
from  each  slice ;  toast  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides.  Mix  finely 
minced  ham  with  enough  hot  milk  to  moisten ;  season  with 
cayenne  and  mustard  and  spread  on  toast.  Cover  thickly  with 
grated  cheese  and  place  in  hot  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted. 
Serve  at  once  on  a  platter. — Mrs.  L.  R.  R. 

Good  Luck  With  Your  Cooking  If  You  Use  Holmes'  Coal. 

BAKED  HAM  AND  POTATO  MINCE. 
Mix  one  pint  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  one-half  pint  new 
milk  and  one  beaten  tgg ;  then  one-half  pint  cold  minced  ham. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  until  just  beginning  to  brown; 
then  sprinkle  the  top  with  a  little  grated  cheese  and  return  to 
the  oven  for  five  or  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  Savage. 

215 


LEFT  OVERS. 

Bacon  and  eggs  that  have  been  left  from  a  previous  meal 
may  be  chopped  fine,  adding  a  little  cold  potato  and  a  little  of 
the  bacon  gravy  if  any  is  left.  Mix  and  m.ake  in  small  balls, 
roll  in  raw  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  spider.  Fry  a 
light  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  hot.  Very  appetizing. — 
M.  E.  E. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  Money  Back,  at  Holmes' 

POLATINA. 

One  cup  stewed  tomatoes  and  the  gravy  left  from  roast 
beef.  Let  them  boil  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Slice 
two  onions,  fry  in  butter  until  soft  and  yellow.  Cut  cold  roast 
beef  in  very  thin  slices.  Have  a  platter  hot :  lay  beef  on  it, 
pour  over  the  sauce  and  garnish  with  the  onions. — E.  A.  F. 

REMNANT  OF  ROAST  BEEF. 

Have  thin  slices  of  beef;  lay  in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Then  a  layer  of  raw  potatoes 
sprinkled  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  with  gravy  or 
stock  and  small  pieces  of  butter  scattered  on  top.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  from  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours.  Cover  with  plate 
the  last  hour  in  oven. — Mrs.  P.  J.  Lynch. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  Money  Back,  at  Holmes' 

TONGUE  TOAST. 

Cold  boiled  tongue,  mince  fine,  mix  with  cream.  To  every 
one-half  pint  of  the  mixture  allow  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Place  over  fire,  simmer  a  minute  or  two.  Have  ready 
toasted  bread  buttered — on  hot  dish — pour  mixture  over,  serve 
hot. 

Caledonian  Cream : — Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  spoons  loaf 
sugar,  two  spoons  raspberry  jam,  two  spoons  currant  jelly ; 
beat  together  with  silver  spoon  till  spoon  stands  upright.  Serve 
with  tongue  toast. — Ada  A.  Breivster,  Kingston. 

2  i6 


LEFT  OVERS. 

A  nice  way  to  use  odd  bits  of  meat  of  any  kind.  Cut  small, 
put  in  a  buttered  dish  with  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  layer  of 
meat,  layer  of  tomato ;  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter.  Moisten 
with  water  or  gravy.    Bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. — E.  A.  F. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Earth  or  Money  Back,  at  Holmes' 

ESCALLOPED  TURKEY. 

Line  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  crumbs;  put  alternate 
layers  of  half-inch  bits  of  cold  turkey,  stuffing  and  gravy; 
cover  with  crumbs  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  or  use  white  sauce 
and  crumbs  in  place  of  gravy  and  stuffing.  Chicken  with 
cooked  rice ;  veal  with  spaghetti ;  mutton  with  oysters ;  any  of 
above  combinations  may  be  prepared  in  like  manner. — Mrs. 
E.  W.  McAllister. 

ESCALLOPED  HAM. 

Two  cups  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  cup  ham,  chopped  fine; 
three  cups  milk,  butter,  pepper,  a  very  little  salt.  Butter  a  bak- 
ing dish,  put  in  layer  of  crumbs,  then  add  bits  of  butter,  salt, 
plenty  of  pepper;  then  a  layer  of  the  ham  and  continue  until 
dish  is  full,  having  last  layer  of  crumbs.  Pour  over  all  the 
milk  and  let  stand  an  hour  or  longer  to  moisten.  The  success 
of  this  depends  on  its  being  moist,  and  very  highly  seasoned 
with  butter  and  pepper.  Have  ham  about  two  parts  lean  to 
one  of  fat.    Bake  about  an  hour. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Sweetland. 

Wirt  Fountain  Pens,  Warranted  Best  on  Eartli  or  IVIoney  Bacl<,  at  Hoimes' 

BEEF  SMOTHERED  IN  TOMATO. 

Cut  an  onion  fine  and  fry  slowly  in  one  tablespoonful  butter. 
Add  one  pint  strained  tomato,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon 
pepper,  one  tablespoon  vinegar  and  one  pound  of  beef  (either 
cooked  or  uncooked)  cut  in  small  pieces.  Simmer  very  slowly 
until  beef  is  tender. — E.  A.  F. 

217 


LEFT  OVERS  OF  VEAL. 

Mince  fine  small  bits  of  cold  veal ;  season  with  salt,  a  bit  of 
butter  and  pepper ;  mix  cold  mashed  potatoes  with  flour  enough 
to  roll;  roll  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  cooky  cutter; 
put  a  spoonful  of  veal  on  each  round  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 
— Mrs.  G.  IV.  Fearing. 

All   the   New   Novels,  2  Cents   a   Day,   at   Holmes'    Library,   at  58   Main   St. 

'  MEAT  SOUFFLE. 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  dashes  of  white 
pepper  and  gradually  one  pint  milk,  stirring  steadily;  when 
boiling  after  the  milk  has  been  added,  stir  in  one-half  cupful 
stale  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  onion  juice;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  one 
pint  cold  meat  chopped  fine  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten.  Then  fold  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  dry ; 
pour  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven,  in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  about  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Serve  immediately  with  tomato  sauce. — Florence  Ken- 
nedy. 

All  the   New   Novels,  2  Cents  a   Day,  at  Holmes'   Library,   at  58   Main   St. 

MEAT  SOUFFLE. 

Make  one  cup  of  cream  sauce  and  season  with  chopped  pars- 
ley and  onion  juice.  Stir  one  cup  of  chopped  meat  (chicken, 
veal  or  lamb)  into  the  sauce.  When  hot,  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs ;  cook  one  minute  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
cool  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish 
about  twenty  minutes.  If  for  lunch,  serve  with  mushroom 
sauce. 

Mushroom  Sauce: — To  one  cup  brown  sauce  add  one- 
fourth  can  mushrooms,  drained,  rinsed  and  cut  in  small  slices. 
— Mrs.  Charles  Bragdon. 

2l8 


HOT  SPICED  BEEF. 
Cut  dried  beef  into  small  pieces  (any  shape),  prepare  spiced 
vinegar  as  for  fruit.    Steam  the  beef  in  the  vinegar  about  one 
hour.     Serve  hot  on  wafers.    This  is  fine. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Fear- 
ing. 


If  You 
Want  Me 

to,  I  can  show  you  or  any 
other  lady,  a  positive  and 
successful  way  to 

Increase  Your 
Spending  Money. 

"A  penny  saved  is  a 
penny  earned,"  and  if  I 
can  sell  you  a  dollar's 
worth  of  coal  that  will  go 
farther  than  any  dollar's 
worth  you  ever  had,  you 
should  give  me  a  chance. 
Our  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin  COAL  is  above  all 
things  an  economical,  sat- 
isfactory coal  for  the  cook 


stove. 


Holmes' 


58  Main  St.     Enterprise  BIdg. 


HOLMES' 


You   Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


Do  You 
Subscribes^^?^> 

for  any  Papers  or  Magazines? 

If  you  do,  we  would  like  to  have  a 
chance  to  do  business  with  you.  We 
think  we  can  save  you  money. 

We  mean  in  every  instance  to  have 
our  prices  the  lowest  you  can  get  any- 
where, whether  for  single  publications 
or  combinations. 

Give  us  a  chance  to  quote  prices, 
and  so  keep  your  trade  at  home  with 
people  you  know. 

Our  News  Stand  was  started  in 
1 878,  and  there  is  nothing  published 
that  we  will  not  willingly  supply. 

This  Is  Holmes*  Corp. 

ENTERPRISE  BUILDING 
58  MAIN  STREET 

A 

^'Sip 

Beverages. 

COFFEE. 

Break  one  egg  into  a  cup  and  beat  into  it  its  own  bulk  of  cold 
water,  dripping  slowly  from  faucet.  Beat  rapidly  and  it  will 
be  smooth  and  creamy.  Use  coffee  of  medium  fineness,  not 
pulverized,  allowing  one  rounding  tablespoonful  for  each  per- 
son. Moisten  thoroughly  with  egg  mixture  and  put  in  coffee 
pot.  Pour  freshly  boiled  water  on  coffee  and  set  pot  on  stove 
where  it  will  steep  and  come  to  a  boil  very  gradually, 
letting  it  boil  one  or  two  minutes.  Remove  from  stove  and 
settle  with  a  slight  shake  of  salt  bottle  and  a  dash  of  cold 
water.  Place  where  it  will  keep  hot  until  wanted. — W.  R. 
Worthing. 

We   Please   Particular   People.     This   Is   Holmes',   58   Main   St. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Pick  over  three  quarts  of  berries ;  put  half  in  jar,  add  one 
pint  cider  vinegar,  cover  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth ;  pour  liquor 
thus  obtained  over  remaining  berries,  cover  and  let  stand  the 
same  as  before.  Again  strain  through  a  double  cheesecloth. 
To  each  cup  of  juice  add  one-half  pound  sugar.  Heat  grad- 
ually until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  twenty  minutes;  bottle 
and  cork.  Dilute  with  iced  water  for  serving. — Mrs.  Kate  L. 
Weaver. 

We   Please   Particular   People.     This    Is   Holmes',   58   Main   St. 

WILD  CHERRY  JUICE. 

Cook  wild  cherries  in  water  to  cover  until  soft;  strain 
through  cheesecloth ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  heat  to  boiling  point 
and  bottle.    Good  in  sickness. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Bartlett. 


GRAPE  JUICE. 

Take  nice  grapes  (Concord  preferred),  stem  them  and  put 
in  an  earthen  jar  or  agate  pot,  with  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  Heat  slowly  until  the  grapes  are  thoroughly  cooked; 
then  drain  through  a  jelly  bag  for  several  hours;  do  not 
squeeze.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  one  pound  granulated 
sugar.  Then  heat  until  hot,  but  do  not  boil.  Can  or  bottle 
while  hot  and  seal. — Mrs.  J.  P.  Stedman. 

We   Please   Particular  People.     This   Is   Holmes',  58   Main   St. 

EXCELLENT  LEMONADE. 

Two  quarts  water,  three  cups  sugar  (boiled  twenty  min- 
utes) ;  when  cold  add  one-half  can  grated  pineapple,  two 
bananas,  three  oranges,  eight  lemons;  let  stand  five  or  six 
hours;  then  strain  and  serve  with  chopped  ice. — Mrs.  W.  E. 
Bryant. 


TtW/lTw'J/: 
Ti\'J/lTtvM 


AVE  Been  in  the  COAL    wm^ 
Business  36  Years — 


Should  know  something  about  it.  Believe  we  do.  Constant 
study,  a  watchful  eye  for  any  improvements  in  coal  or  methods  of 
handling  it,  a  good  name,  made  years  ago,  and  a  determination  to 
keep  it.-THlS  IS  HOLMES',  Enterprise  Bldg.,  58  Main  St. 

We  hire  the  best  men  to  do  our  work,  and  pay  the  highest 
prices — we  buy  the  best  coal  in  the  market  at  bottom  prices. 
Good  labor,  well  paid,  produces  better  and  cleaner  coal  than  can 
be  obtained  in  any  other  way.  We  believe  that 
"a  plecised  customer  is  the  best  advertisement."  Any 
and  all  mistakes  or  complciints  are  promptly  attended 
to.  If  you  don't  know  about  our  coals,  perhaps  it 
would  pay  you  to  try  a  little  of  our  Special  Soft 
Shamokin  Coal  for  the  cook  stove. 


iW'yl.lW'^li 


223 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


224 


J|J;|*'l5JiJJj||J;*|**jJ|J\JJ*|^ 


iJJJ 


*** 


YV/E  thought  we  were  doing  it  when 
''  we  advertised  our  Special  Soft 
Shamokin  Coal,  but  when  we  com- 
menced to  hear  from  the  ladies  who  were 
using  that  excellent  coal,  we  found  we  had 
not  half  told  it.  We  never  cleiimed  it  to  be 
superior  to  Franklin,  although  we  know  it 
has  some  advantages.  Our  lady  customers 
seem  to  be  unanimous  in  thinking  it  is 
pretty  nearly  perfect  for  the  cook  stove, 
and  it  is  almost  slateless  too.  If  you  have 
never  used  our  coal,  ask  some  of  these 
ladies  about  it,  for  "a  pleased  customer  is 
the  best  advertisement"  for 

This  Is  Holmes' 

5S  Main  St.  Enterprise  BIdg. 


i  Tell  the  Truth  || 


115 
.51.5 
1.55 


?^^*J??*^*^*?^?*?***J*55;**** 


225 


Treatment  for  £mergencies. 

BURNS. 

Treatment:  If  your  own  clothes  catch  fire  lie  down  on  the 
floor  and  roll,  keeping  your  mouth  shut.  If  you  see  another 
person  in  danger,  throw  her  down  (it  is  usually  a  woman), 
wrapping  her  in  shawl,  rug,  or  any  woolen  thing  at  hand,  to 
stifle  the  flames,  keeping  the  fire  from  the  face.  The  great 
danger  is  that  of  inhaling  the  flames. 

In  the  treatment  of  burns  or  scalds  the  first  object  is  to 
exclude  the  air.  A  simple  method  of  doing  this  is  to  apply 
a  wet  cloth,  and  sprinkle  freely  with  common  baking  soda. 
If  burns  are  severe,  send  for  a  doctor  at  once.  Burns  by 
strong  acids  are  treated  the  same,  further  action  of  the  acid 
being  prevented  by  bathing  with  alkaline  solution,  as  of  soda, 
ammonia,  or  common  earth. 

The    Best   in    Brockton    View    Postcards   at    Holmes',   58    Main    St. 

CONVULSIONS. 
Place  patient  on  back  with  head  slightly  raised.  Loosen 
any  tight  clothing  and  allow  free  supply  of  air.  See  that  he 
does  not  hurt  himself.  Place  something  (a  piece  of  wood, 
lead  pencil  or  handkerchief)  between  teeth,  keeping  him  from 
biting  his  tongue.  If  a  child,  place  in  a  warm  bath  with  cold 
applications  to  head. 

ERUPTION  FROM  POISON  IVY,  OAK,  ETC 
Sooth  by  applications  of  Listerine  or  solution  of  common 
baking  soda. 

The    Best    in    Brocl<ton    View    Postcards    at    Holmes',    58    IVIain    St. 

FAINTING. 
Fainting  is  caused  by  insufficient  supply  of  blood  to  the 
brain.  Treatment :  Place  patient  flat  on  back,  head  lower  than 
feet.  Loosen  clothing  around  throat  and  upper  part  of  body, 
allowing  free  access  of  air.  Sprinkle  water  on  face  or  apply 
smelling  salts  to  stimulate  breathing. 

226 


FOREIGN  BODY  IN  WINDPIPE. 
This  will  usually  be  dislodged  by  the  coughing  which  its 
presence  excites.  A  blow  on  the  back  between  the  shoulders, 
will  be  of  use  if  a  person  is  choking.  A  child  may  be  held  up 
by  the  feet,  head  down,  while  a  succession  of  blows  are  ad- 
ministered between  the  shoulders.  This  will  seldom  fail  to  dis- 
lodge the  foreign  body  unless  it  has  been  sucked  below  the  air 
passages. 

The    Best   in    Brockton    View   Postcards   at    Holmes',   58    Main    St. 

HEMORRHAGE  FROM  NOSE. 
If  bleeding  is  severe,  a  doctor  should  be  sent  for  at  once. 
In  the  meantime,  open  windows  and  undo  tight  clothing  from 
neck.  Do  not  allow  patient  to  hang  head  over  basin,  but  place 
patient  on  chair  or  couch  in  position  of  repose.  Raise  arms, 
stretching  to  full  extent  above  and  rather  behind  head.  Apply 
cold  wet  sponge  or  towel,  or  lump  of  ice,  to  back  of  neck,  and 
also  another  sponge,  towel  or  piece  of  ice  over  forehead  at  root 
of  nose.  If  this  does  not  stop  bleeding  and  the  doctor  has  not 
arrived,  take  a  piece  of  handkerchief  or  soft  cloth  and,  wrap- 
ping it  up  tightly,  push  it  into  the  bleeding  nostril. 

HEMORRHAGE  OR  RUPTURE  OF  VARICOSE 
VEINS. 
Pressure  should  be  made  below  the  bleeding  point;  cold  or 
heat  applied  and  limb  elevated. 

Tfie    Best   In    Broci<ton    View    Postcards   at    Holmes',   58    i\^ain    St. 

POISONS. 
Treatment:  On  all  occasions  send  for  a  doctor  at  once.  An 
emetic  always  on  hand  is  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  or  mustard  in 
a  cup  of  warm  water,  repeated  every  fifteen  minutes  until  vom- 
iting occurs.  Do  not  give  an  emetic  when  there  are  stains  on 
the  lips.  These  are  caused  by  acids  whose  action  is  so  rapid 
that  the  tissues  would  be  injured  long  before  an  emetic  could 
be  given.    Give  instead,  castor  or  salad  oil, 

227 


In  carbolic  acid  poisoning  give  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  epsom  salts  or  plenty  of  milk  or  milk  and  lime  water. 
Keep  quiet. 

In  corrosive  poisoning  give  white  of  egg  or  plenty  of  milk, 
followed  by  an  emetic. 

SPRAINS. 

Soak  injured  part  in  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  for  one- 
half  hour ;  then  apply  moist  bandage,  keeping  the  part  elevated 
and  at  rest. 

We   Please   Particular   People.     This   Is   Holmes',   58   Main   St. 

FOR  SIMPLE  CUTS  OR  BRUISES. 

Cleanse  parts  with  soap  and  water,  and  irrigate  with  clean, 
warm  water,  or  it  may  be  soaked  in  creolin  solution  made  by 
adding  one  teaspoon  of  creolin  to  one  quart  of  water.  Wrap 
in  clean  linen  or  cotton  cloth.  If  inflammation  follows  go  to 
the  doctor  at  once. 

— Compiled  at  the  Brockton  Hospital. — 


228 


You   Can    Cook    Best  with    Holmes'    Peerless   Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


229 


Why  Holmes  Sells 

For  CASH 

We  propose  to  show  you  in  a  few 
words  why  we  can  sell  you  your  coal  for 
cash  and  sell  you  for  less  money  than  any- 

#*#*#%- 

#*#%%# 
#*#### 

one  can  who  gives  you  credit,  even  amount- 
mg  to  one  week.     In  the  first  place — any 
sale  that  has  to  go  on  the  book  requires  a 

*##%*% 
##*### 

new  leaf  or  a  new  card  in  our  loose  leeif 
or  card  ledger.     This  leaf  or  card  costs 
something  over  a  cent;  clerical  help  costs 

*%*### 
♦##**# 

in  the  vicinity  of  two  cents,  while  30  days' 
interest  on  a  ton  of  coal,  costing,  we  will 
say,  $8.00,  would  be  4  cents    A  statement 

#%###* 
##***%' 
##**#% 
**#*%% 

sent  the  first  of  the  month,  under  a  two-cent 
stamp,  would  cost  3  cents  more,  a  total  of 
ten  cents.     On    the    assumption  that  one 
person  in  a  hundred  should  fail  to  pay  his 
bill;  that    would    be  a  loss  of  $8.00,  or 
substantially  8  cents  to  be    added  to  the 

** 

** 

#%**#^ 
##***% 

cost    of    the    coal    sold    to    every    credit 
customer,  thus   making  an  expense  of   18 
cents  a  ton,  without  taking  into  considera- 

** 
** 

####** 
#*###% 

tion  the  additional  interest  on  the  account 
run  over  30  days,  or  the  cost  of  the  col- 
lector to  look  after  the  account. 

** 
** 

*%##** 
#*#*** 

This  being  true,  it  is  very  easy  to  see 
why  anyone  selling  coal  on  credit  would 
be  obliged  to  charge  you  at  least  25  cents 

** 

** 

#*#%*# 
##**#* 

a  ton  more  for  coal  than  the  cash  price,  in 
order  to  receive  coal  of  somewhere  near 
equal  value,  and  in  order  for  the  dealer  to 

** 
** 

****** 

receive  a  living  profit. 

Moral  of  this  is,  buy  your  coal  for 
CASH,  and  buy  it  from 

** 
** 

****** 
****** 

HOLMES 

** 

****** 
****** 

** 
** 

************** 

****** 

************** 

** 

■ 

230 


Suggestions  for  the  Sick  and 
Convalescent. 

LIQUID  DIET. 

Liquid  diet  consists  entirely  of  liquids,  viz: — milk,  malted 
milk,  meat  broths,  beef  tea,  beef  juice,  oyster  broth,  clam 
water,  albumen  water,  albuminized  milk,  orange  albumen,  bar- 
ley water,  rice  water,  eggnog,  tea  and  coffee.  Of  these,  milk 
is  the  most  valuable. 

The  taste  of  milk  may  be  altered  by  heating,  or  by  the  addi- 
tion of  salt,  pepper,  ginger  ale,  coffee,  chocolate  or  seltzer. 

For  making  cold  beverages  the  water  should  be  freshly 
drawn ;  for  hot,  freshly  boiled. 

Fruit  beverages  should  be  served  ice  cold.  Syrup  is  a  bet- 
ter sweetener  than  sugar.  It  is  made  of  sugar  one  cup,  water 
one  cup.  Mix  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Boil  twelve  minutes. 
Bottle  and  cool. 

The  change  from  liquids  to  light  diet  should  be  made  grad- 
ually. Wine  or  fruit  jellies  are  palatable  and  nutritious.  After 
jellies,  a  bit  of  water  or  milk  toast,  then  an  egg,  a  little  soup 
or  pudding  until  the  person  is  able  to  take  anything  in  the  list. 

All  the  New  Novels,  2  Cents  a  Day,  at  Holmes'   Library,  at  58   Main   St 

LIGHT  DIET. 

Light  diet  consists  of  all  the  liquid  diets,  and  in  addition 
fruits,  as  grapes,  oranges  or  grape  fruit;  porridge  of  farina, 
wheat  germ  or  white  com  meal ;  soft-boiled  or  poached  eggs ; 
dry,  water,  milk  or  cream  toast;  soups  as  celery,  mock  bisque 
and  chicken;  light  puddings,  custards,  jellies,  ices  and  creams. 
For  dinner  a  meat  ball  or  a  small  bit  of  beef  steak  or  chop  and 
baked  potato. 

All  the  New  Novels,  2  Cents  a  Day,  at  Holmes'   Library,  at  58   Main   St. 

231 


CONVALESCENT  DIET. 

Convalescent  diet  includes  the  liquid  and  light  diet,  and  in 
addition  all  easily  digested  and  nutritious  food.  Game,  veni- 
son, beef,  mutton  and  chicken ;  eggs  in  all  ways,  as  soft  cooked, 
scrambled,  etc. ;  well  baked  or  creamed  potatoes,  celery,  gra- 
ham bread,  gems,  and  all  well  made  bread,  and  good  cake. 

Some  foods  to  avoid  are:  Pastry,  badly  made  cake,  pork, 
veal,  any  highly  seasoned  meat  dishes  made  with  gravy ;  all 
kinds  of  fried  foods  and  heavy  puddings. 

Liquid  Diet. 

BEEF  JUICE 

Place  half  a  pound  of  lean,  juicy  beef  on  a  broiler  over  a 
clear,  hot  fire  and  heat  it  through.  Press  out  the  juice  with 
a  lemon  sqeezer  into  a  hot  cup,  add  salt,  and  serve  with  toast 
or  crackers. 

In  making  beef  tea  or  beef  juice  the  best  cuts  are  the  top 
of  the  round,  the  back  and  middle  of  the  rump,  as  they  contain 
the  most  and  best  flavored  juice. 

This    Is   Holmes'    Main   Office,   58    Main   St. 

BEEF  TEA. 
Take  a  pound  of  round  steak,  remove  all  the  fat  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  jar  and  fill  with  cold  water. 
Cover  closely  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour. 
Place  jar  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  simmer  gently  two  hours. 
Strain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

This    is   Holmes'    IVlaIn    Office,   58    (Vlain   St. 

CLAM  BROTH. 
Wash  and  scrub  one  dozen  clams.  Cook  in  a  covered  ket- 
tle with  one  tablespoonful  of  water  until  shells  open.  Remove 
clams  from  shells  also  sacks  and  heads  from  clams.  Chop 
fine.  Add  clam  juice  and  one-half  pint  of  water.  Let  simmer 
thirty  minutes.  Strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheese 
cloth.  Reheat  and  add  walnut  of  butter  (this  may  be  omit- 
ted).    One-half  cup  of  hot  milk.     Strain  and  serve. 

232 


ALBUMENIZED    MILK. 

White  of  one  egg,  one  cup  milk.  Place  the  egg  and  milk  in 
a  covered  glass  jar  and  shake  until  the  ingredients  are  thor- 
oughly blended.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Serve  imme- 
diately. The  juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  with  cracked  ice, 
may  be  used  instead  of  milk. 

This   Is  Holmes'   Main   Office,  58   Main  St. 

EGGNOG. 

One  egg,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  few 
grains  of  salt,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  or  a  slight  grating  of 
nutmeg.  Separate  egg ;  beat  yolk  well.  Add  salt ;  add  flavor- 
ing and  half  of  sugar.  Beat  until  light.  Beat  white  until  stiff ; 
then  add  other  half  of  sugar.  Beat  one-half  of  beaten  white 
into  yolk.  Mix  with  milk.  Put  in  a  glass.  Put  remaining 
half  of  white  on  the  top  and  serve.  (Add  as  flavoring,  coffee 
or  fruit  juices.) 

BARLEY  WATER. 

Wash  thoroughly  two  tablespoons  of  pearl  barley  in  cold 
w^ater.  Add  two  quarts  boiling  water,  boil  until  reduced  to 
one  quart,  stirring  frequently.  Strain,  add  juice  of  lemon 
and  sweeten  if  desired. 

Barley  contains  mucilage,  and  is  soothing  and  refreshing 
in  fevers  and  gastric  inflammations. 

Rice  water  made  in  the  same  manner  is  easily  digested  and 
almost  wholly  assimilated. 

This   Is  Holmes'   Main   Office,  58   Main  St. 

FLOUR  BALL. 

(For  use  in  Diarrhoea  and  Dysentery.) 
Boil  a  quantity  of  flour  in  a  bag  twelve  hours ;   take  from 
water  and  remove  cloth ;  dry  in  a  warm  oven.    Grate  the  flour 
and  use  in  making  gruel. 

233 


Light  Diet. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

Gelatin,  one  teaspoon ;  cold  water,  one  tablespoon ;  toma- 
toes, three-fourths  cup  scant ;  small  piece  onion ;  small  piece 
bay  leaf;  one  clove;  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt. 

Cook  tomatoes  with  seasoning  ten  minutes.  Soak  the  gel- 
atin in  the  cold  water.  Strain  the  tomatoes.  Add  eight  table- 
spoons of  the  liquid  to  the  gelatin.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Pour 
into  a  mould.  When  set,  turn  out  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Serve 
with  any  salad  dressing. 

Established    In    1873    and    Doing    More    Business    Every    Year.      Do    You 
Know    Why?      Try,    and    C. 

MINT  ICE. 
Bruise   one   or   two  sprigs  of   fresh  mint  and  steep  fifteen 
minutes  in  one-half  cup  of  lemon  juice.  Strain.    Boil  together 
one  cup  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar  ten  minutes,  and  add  to 
lemon  juice  with  three  cups  cold  water.    Freeze  to  a  mush. 

COOKED  EGG  FOR  AN  INVALID 
Take  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  drop  egg  in  water  and  set 

on  back  of  stove  (where  water  will  not  even  simmer)   from 

seven  to  ten  minutes. 

An  egg  cooked  in  this  way  is  easily  digested,  as  the  white 

is  not  cooked  too  much  and  the  yolk  is  also  cooked. 

Established    In    1873    and     Doing     More     Business    Every    Year.       Do    You 
Know   Why?     Try,   and    C. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP  (Individual) 
Three-eighths  cup  strained  tomatoes  (one-eighth  can)  ;soda; 
one-half  tablespoon  butter ;  one  tablespoon  flour ;  salt  and  pep- 
per (to  taste)  ;  one-half  cup  milk  (heated). 

When  the  strained  tomato  is  hot  add  to  it  a  very  small 
amount  of  soda,  and  when  the  effervesence  ceases,  the  tomato 
may  be  added  to  the  white  sauce,  which  has  been  prepared  in 
the  usual  manner.  Season  and  serve  immediately  with  crou- 
tons or  crisped  crackers. 

234 


BROTH  WITH  EGG. 
Beat  egg  in  bowl.     Pour  on  gradually  three-fourths  cup  of 
hot  broth.     Serve  at  once,  or  after  adding  egg  cook  over  hot 
water  until  it  thickens.     Serve  immediately  or  it  will  curdle. 

MILK  SHERBET. 
One  cup  milk;  one-half  cup  sugar;    juice  of  one  lemon. 
Freeze  the  milk  and  sugar ;  add  strained  lemon  juice  and  freeze 
again. 

Established    In    1873    and    Doing    More    Business    Every    Year.      Do    You 
Know   Why?     Try,   and   C. 

RAW  BEEF  SANDWICHES. 
Prepare  bread  as  for  bread  and  butter  sandwiches.    Spread 
one-half  the  pieces  with  scraped  beef  generously  seasoned  with 
salt  and  a  small  amount  of  pepper.     Serve  on  a  doily. 
— Compiled  at  the  Brockton  Hospital  for  the  Ladies'  Aid 
Association. 

Dainties  for  Diabetics. 

CHEESE  CUSTARD. 

One  egg;  two  tablespoons  cold  water;  four  tablespoons 
cream ;  one  tablespoon  butter ;  one  tablespoon  grated  cheese ; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Beat  egg  slightly;  add  other  ingredients  in  order  named. 
Pour  into  mould  and  bake ;  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  in  moder- 
ate oven  until  firm. 

Established    In    1873    and    Doing    More    Business    Every    Year.      Do    You 
Know   Why?     Try,   and    C. 

GLUTEN  WAFERS 

Cream,  four  tablespoons;  gluten  flour,  one-half  cup;  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon. 

Make  stiff  dough  of  flour,  cream  and  salt.  Knead  well. 
Roll  until  as  thin  as  paper.  Cut  into  desired  shape  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  six  minutes.  If  desired  two  tablespoons  of 
chopped  nuts  may  be  added. 


NUT  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD. 
Mix  Neufdiatel  cheese  with  small  quantity  of  cream.    Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.      Roll  in  balls  the  size  of  a  robin's 
egg.    Press  one-half  a  walnut  on  opposite  sides  of  ball.   Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

— Compiled  at  the  Brockton  Hospital  for  the  Ladies'  Aid 
Association. 


"Dear  Mary,  do  tell  me  how 
you  manage  to  keep  such  a 
nice  fire  in  your  cook  stove  all 
the  time  on  a  single  hod  of 
coal  a  day  ?  " 

"Why,  Alice,  I  simply  use 
Holmes'  Special  Soft  Shamo- 
kin  Coal,  and,  as  it  is  all  coal, 
there  is  but  a  small  quantity  of 
ashes  to  throw  away,  and  no 
dirt  and  stone,  or  clinkers. 
Why  don't  you  try  it?  They 
sell  it  at 

58  MAIN  ST. 


236 


You    Can    Cook    Best   with    Holmes'    Peerless    Coal. 
Write  Your  New  Recipes  Here. 


237 


Table  of  Weights  and 

Measures. 

1  tablespoonful 

4  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid,    . 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  material, 

1  tablespoonful 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid,        .     1 

wine-glass,  or  J  cup 

16  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid. 

1  cup 

12  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  material. 

1  cup 

4  cups  of  liquid. 

.     1  quart 

4  cups  of  flour,   .... 

1  pound,  or  1  quart 

1  cup  of  butter. 

.  J  pound 

2  cups  of  granulated  dry  sugar. 

.   1  pound 

2J  cups  of  pulverized  dry  sugar. 

.    1  pound 

1  round  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

.    1  ounce 

1  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

2  oz.,  or  J  cup 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 

.  2  ounces 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  dry  sugar,     .        .    1  ounce 

2  round  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

.    1  ounce 

1  pint  of  granulated  dry  sugar, 

.   1  pound 

238 


H 


OLMES'  Recipe  for 
Good  Business. 


After  more  than  a  third  of  a  century  in  the 
retail  coal  business  in  Brockton,  we  feel  qualified 
to  offer  a  good  recipe  for  conducting  a  more  or 
less  successful  business ;  but  in  trying  this  recipe 
you  must  use  judgment  as  you  would  in  the  others 
in  this  book. 

Take  a  liberal  quantity  of  honesty,  industry, 
courage,  chstfacter,  experience,  and  determination; 
mix  them  thoroughly,  and  add  such  money  as 
you  happen  to  have.  It  is  not  advisable  to  de- 
pend too  much  upon  the  money,  but  the  others 
are  essential.  Get  a  good  location,  and  let  your 
prospective  customers  know  all  about  it.  Be 
honest  in  all  your  dealings — don't  try  to  be  sharp 
— it  may  take  longer  to  arrive,  but  it  is  sure  to  pay 
eventually.  Make  your  word  as  good  as  your 
bond.  if  you  make  a  mistake,  acknowledge  it 
like  a  man,  and  people  will  have  confidence  in 
you  when  you  correct  it.  Put  enough  profit  in 
your  sales  to  give  you  an  honest  living ;  treat  all 
people  alike,  and  as  you  would  like  to  be  treated 
were  the  conditions  reversed.  Don't  put  in  any 
lying,  under  any  circumstances — it  won't  pay  in 
the  end.  Treat  those  who  work  for  you  like 
human  beings,  and  pay  them  such  wages  as  you 
would  need  if  conditions  were  reversed ;  then 
they  will  work  for  your  interest,  and  make  friends 
for  you.  If  you  don't  have  success  in  following 
this  recipe,  it  is  not  the  fault  of 
Yours  truly, 


This  is  one  of  the  few  recipes  that  is  practi- 
cally duplicated  from  the  1906  edition,  but  we 
believe  it  cannot  be  improved  upon. 


239 


DEC     8 


DEC,  b  ,1309 


