.Butt  Family 
Favorites 


Mf/liom  Meet/ Act 


Home  of 
William  Thomas  &  Mary  Eliza  Butt 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

LYRASIS  members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/buttfamilyfavoriOOunse 


EB 


El 


A  Collection  of  Recipes  by 

Mary  Eliza  Butt 

and 

Her  nine  children 

And  her  fourteen  grandchildren 


Copyright  ©  2001 
Cookbooks  by  Morris  Press 

All  rights  reserved.  Reproduction  in  whole  or  in 
part  without  written  permission  is  prohibited. 


Printed  in  the  U.S.A.  by 


caohboohs 

by  morris  press 


P.O.  Box  2110  •  Kearney,  NE  68848 


For  information  on  having  your  cookbook  printed,  write  for 
our  FREE  information  packet  or  call  Toil-Free  at  1-800-445-6621 


ES 


ES 


37497-gs       1 


Wysssssssssssssssssssssssm 


This  cookbook  is  dedicated  to  the  memory  of  William 
Thomas  Butt  and  Mary  Eliza  Flanagan  Butt  and  their  son 
and  eight  daughters.  A  family  to  be  remembered  for  their 
values  and  dedication  to  their  children,  community  and 
church. 

A  special  thank  you  to  all  the  family  members  that  con- 
tributed recipes.  There  are  many  favorites  included  that  are 
now  special  dishes  of  grandchildren  and  great-grandchil- 
dren. While  some  recipes  do  not  have  complete  instruc- 
tions or  ingredients,  they  are  written  as  handed  down  to 
their  families.  We  hope  that  future  generations  will  continue 
to  use  the  special  "Butt  Family  Favorites." 


m  izzzzzzzzzzzzzzzszzzzzzza  m 


ffllt-frW-S-frg-frW-W-W-S-S-S-S-S-Mp 


•Jmxru  Sllza  Flanagan/  &Butt 


ffl  TZZZZZZSZZ2ZZZZZSZZZZZ22&  ffl 


37497-gs       3 


Wysssssssssssssssssssssss^ 


William  £/7ioma&  vfiutt 

William  Thomas  Butt  was  born  on  February  20,  1877  in 
Princess  Anne  County.  He  was  known  to  his  friends  as 
"Willie."  He  had  three  sisters,  Poca,  who  lived  to  be  old, 
India  who  died  in  middle  age  from  cancer,  and  Lois  who 
died  as  a  child.  He  also  had  two  brothers,  Eugene,  who  out- 
lived him,  and  Millard,  who  died  in  his  teens  from  tubercu- 
losis. 

Willie  had  many  talents  and  he  liked  building  things.  He 
built  all  the  buildings  on  the  farm,  including  the  barn  and 
stables.  He  also  built  a  horse-drawn  sleigh  for  hauling  fer- 
tilizer, grain,  and  produce.  Probably  one  of  his  greatest 
accomplishments  was  building  a  pea-picker  for  harvesting 
soy  beans.  It  was  shared  with  the  surrounding  farms  at  har- 
vest time. 

Willie  was  a  truck  farmer.  He  sold  produce  at  the  market 
in  Norfolk,  and  in  the  summer,  he  made  weekly  trips  in  his 
pick-up  truck  to  the  cottage  line  at  Virginia  Beach. 

He  was  very  active  in  Nimmo  Methodist  Church  and 
was  a  steward  for  over  30  years.  Willie  and  the  children 
attended  church  every  Sunday. 

Every  Christmas  he  would  buy  a  large  round  of  rat 
cheese,  Royal  lunch  crackers,  a  bushel  of  oysters,  a  wood- 
en bucket  of  mincemeat,  and  a  bushel  of  apples  for  his  fam- 
ily. 

In  September  of  1936  there  was  a  terrible  hurricane. 
The  stables  blew  down  and  Willie  tried  to  save  his  horses. 
A  sheet  of  heavy  metal  corrugated  roofing  hit  him  on  his 
head  and  that  night  he  lost  consciousness.  He  died  3  days 
later. 


ffl  EZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ2Z2ZZZ2L  ffl 


37497-gs        4 


Mwsssssssssssssssssssssssm 


Mary  Eliza  Flanagan  was  born  on  December  18,  1878 
in  the  West  Neck  section  of  Princess  Anne  County.  She 
was  known  to  her  friends  as  "Liza."  She  had  a  sister,  Odie, 
for  whom  her  daughter  Odie  was  named  and  one  brother, 
Moses. 

She  loved  flowers  and  had  a  garden  filled  with  holly- 
hocks, zinnias,  asters,  tuberoses,  lilacs,  roses,  daffodils, 
hyacinths,  mock  orange,  and  sweet  shrub. 

She  was  very  creative  and  talented.  She  made  all  of  her 
children's  clothes  and  even  their  underwear.  She  had 
rheumatism  in  one  knee  and  when  it  was  too  painful  for  her 
to  pedal  her  sewing  machine,  the  children  would  pedal  it  for 
her.  She  was  also  a  very  good  cook.  She  was  always  busy 
canning,  preserving,  and  cooking. 

Liza  not  only  loved  her  children  but  when  they  were 
grown  and  married  she  would  often  take  up  for  their  spous- 
es. She  was  devoted  to  her  grandchildren  and  if  they  mis- 
behaved she  said  it  was  because  they  were  hungry  or 
sleepy. 

When  she  became  ill  her  children  took  turns  spending 
the  nights  with  her.  She  died  on  October  3,  1958  from  ure- 
mic poisoning  at  the  age  of  79. 


^wssssssssssssssssssssssnm 


37497-gs       5 


MWSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS'AM 


^2za  <&cttJMi& 

William  Thomas  Butt  and  Mary  Eliza  Flanagan  were 
married  on  December  7,  1898.  They  lived  in  a  Dutch 
Colonial  home  on  London  Bridge  Road.  The  house  still 
stands  and  is  known  today  as  London  Bridge  Hunt  Club. 

All  nine  of  their  children  were  born  in  this  house.  Their 
marriage  was  a  true  partnership  all  the  way.  They  never 
argued,  or  even  raised  their  voices  to  each  other  or  to  their 
children. 

The  whole  family  worked  in  some  manner  about  the 
farm.  They  would  shell  butter  beans,  lima  beans,  and  black- 
eyed  peas,  pick  strawberries,  watermelon,  and  can- 
taloupes. There  were  lots  of  farm  animals,  chickens,  ducks, 
geese,  sheep,  cows,  horses,  dogs,  and  cats. 

There  were  often  Sunday  School  Picnics  that  were  fun 
for  the  whole  family.  The  children  would  save  their  money 
all  summer  and  take  it,  tied  in  the  corner  of  a  handkerchief, 
to  ride  all  the  rides  at  Seaside  Park. 

Willie  and  Liza  were  devout  Christians.  Often  on 
Sundays  the  preacher's  family  would  eat  with  them. 
Besides  going  to  Sunday  School  and  Church  on  Sunday, 
there  was  no  card  playing,  sewing,  or  paper  cutting. 

Willie  and  Liza  did  not  leave  much  in  worldly  goods  but 
a  legacy  much  more  valuable.  They  taught  their  children 
that  the  fleeting  joys  that  money  can  afford  are  not  to  be 
compared  with  the  real  happiness  that  comes  from  within — 
from  loving  and  caring  for  each  other,  not  only  family,  but 
any  of  God's  children. 


ffl  WSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSl  ffl 


William  Thomas  BUTT  (20  Feb.  1877-23  Sep.  1936) 

&  Mary  Eliza  FLANAGAN  (18  Dec.  1878-3  Oct.  1958) 
m.  7  Dec.  1898 


Millard  Clarence  "Brother"  BUTT  (29  Aug  1900-17  Oct  1979) 

&  Edith  Hope  McKENNEY  (8  Aug  1902-5  May  1980) 
m.  24  Dec  1924 


Eva  Gladys  "Auntie"  BUTT  (25  Mar  1903  -  5  Jun  1987) 

&  Herman  Whitehurst  "Uncle"  SIMMONS  (21  Jun  1891  -22  May  1982) 
m.  21  Oct  1925 


Willie  Mae  BUTT  (12  Jul  1905  -  21  Feb  1967) 

&  George  Scott  BROWN  (12  Nov  1900  -  7  Apr  1984) 
m.  11  Feb  1925 


Pattie  Estelle  BUTT  (6  Mar  1909-12  Jul  1996) 

&  Herman  Ray  "Thuggett"  BONNEY  (12  Jun  1905-15  Feb  1989) 
m.  4  Nov  1936 


Odie  Adelia  BUTT  (17  Jan  1911-28  Dec  1988) 

&  Sidney  Severn  KELLAM  (6  Jul  1903  -  30  Dec  1986) 
m.  21  Jan  1933 


Ruby  Mildred  BUTT  (11  Dec  1913  -) 

&  Frank  Lee  FENTRESS  (4  May  1909  -) 
m.  24   Nov  1937 


Mary  Virginia  BUTT  (2  May  1916  -) 

&  Garfield  SHAFER  Jr.  (15  Jun  1914  -  15  Feb  1984) 
m.  26  Dec  1938 


Louise  Johnston  BUTT  (5  Jul  1918-23  Mar  1998) 

&  Ragan  Bradshaw  PULLEY  (30  Nov  1917  -) 
m.  6  Jun  1945 


Ruth  BUTT  (14  Sep  1920  - ) 

&  Leslie  Ray  WATSON  (6  Aug  1915  -  17  Sept  1948) 
M.  22  Aug  1945 


37497-gs       7 


WWSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSyJM 


(copied  from  Auntie's  composition  book  dated  1924) 

Long  may  you  live,  happy  may  you  be,  loved  by  all — best 
by  me. 


Love  many,  trust  few — always  paddle  your  own  canoe. 

Where  you  are,  I'd  like  to  be — wish  a  stamp  would  carry 
me. 

Honey  in  the  cup,  sugar  in  the  bowl,  I  can't  help  from  loving 
you  to  save  my  soul. 

Eva  is  my  name,  single  is  my  life,  happy  will  be  the  man 
who  gets  me  for  his  wife. 

Lock  up  your  heart  in  a  little  tin  trunk,  and  look  for  the  fel- 
low who  never  gets  drunk. 

All  I  want  in  this  creation  is  some  pretty  boy  with  a  fine  plan- 
tation. 

He's  teaching  her  arithmetic — He  says  that's  his  mission 
He  kissed  her  once  and  said  "that's  addition."  As  he  added 
smack  by  smack  in  silent  satisfaction,  she  sweetly  gave  his 


ffl  1SZZZ2ZZZZ2ZZZZZZZZSZZ2Z2L  ffl 


Mwsssssssssssssssssssssssm 


kisses  back,  and  said  "now  that's  subtraction."  He  kissed 
her  and  she  kissed  him  without  any  exclamation,  and  they 
both  smiled  and  said  "that's  multiplication."  But  Dad 
appeared  upon  the  scene  and  made  a  quick  decision  —  He 
kicked  the  lad  3  blocks  away  and  said  "now  that's  long  divi- 
sion". 

When  this  you  see,  remember  me  and  cut  it  in  your  heart, 
"Don't  let  the  advice  of  any  girl  cause  you  and  me  to  part. 

Wait  for  me,  and  me  alone — please  wait  until  I've  grown. 

Love  is  like  a  little  bird  that  flies  from  tree  to  tree, 
when  you  find  another  girl,  you  think  no  more  of  me. 

Your  are  a  darling,  you  are  a  daisy, 
you  are  the  one  that  sets  me  crazy. 

Roses  are  red,  pansies  are  yellow,  I'll  be  your  girl 
if  you'll  be  my  fellow. 

The  trees  of  the  forest  may  perish, 
the  flowers  of  the  valley  decay 
but  let  our  friendship  last  forever 
while  all  earthly  things  pass  away 

When  rocks  and  hills  divide  us,  many  miles  apart —  when 
others  have  your  company,  remember  it  is  you  who  have 
my  heart. 


a  TZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ  ffl 


37497-gs       9 


MwssssssssssssssssssssssaM 


<yYlece&  &uNefe/ieu>& 


Front  Row:  Mary  Robinson  Shafer  Meeks,  Susan  Brown 
Flanagan,  Sara  Shafer  Hetzler,  Lou  Pulley,  Betty  Anne 
Kellam  Huey,  Les  Watson,  Verna  Brown  Leonard,  Jane 
Kellam  Eilertsen,  Mary  Anne  Brown  Simmons. 

Back  Row:  Larry  Pulley,  Scott  Brown,  Lee  Fentress,  Billy 
Fentress,  Ragan  Pulley 


ffl  T22ZZZZZZZZ2ZZZZZZZZZZZZ21  ffl 


37497-gs        10 


Wsssssssssssssssssssssssssm 


mwssssssssssssssssssssssAm 


37497-gs   1 1 


ffll  @8@g@@@g@@g@@g@@@@@g@@g8  Iffi 


£7a6/&  of (j(mtent& 

Appetizers  &  Beverages  1-4 

Soups,  Salads 

&  Vegetables 5-20 

Main  Dishes 

&  Casseroles 21-32 

Breads  &  Rolls 33-38 

Pies,  Pastry 

&  Desserts 39-48 

Cakes,  Cookies 

&Candy 49-70 

Canning,  Preserving 

&  This  &  That 71-76 

Index 


3  @g@§g@@g@g@@@@@gg@§§@@g@  BE 


37497-gs       12 


Appet 


izcf. 


overages 


Butt  Family  Crest 


37497-|b-1a 


Helpful  Hints 


•  You  won't  need  sugar  with  your  tea  if  you  drink  jasmine  tea  or  any 
of  the  lighter-bodied  varieties,  like  Formosa  Oolong,  which  have 
their  own  natural  sweetness.  They  are  fine  for  sugarless  iced  tea,  too. 

•  Calorie-free  club  soda  adds  sparkle  to  iced  fruit  juices,  makes  them 
go  further  and  reduces  calories  per  portion. 

•  For  tea  flavoring,  dissolve  old-fashioned  lemon  drops  or  hard  mint 
candy  in  your  tea.  They  melt  quickly  and  keep  the  tea  brisk! 

•  Most  diets  call  for  8  ounces  of  milk  and  4  ounces  of  fruit  juice.  Check 
your  glassware.  Having  the  exact  size  glass  ensures  the  correct 
serving  amount. 

•  Make  your  own  spiced  tea  or  cider.  Place  orange  peels,  whole 
cloves,  and  cinnamon  sticks  in  a  6-inch  square  piece  of  cheesecloth. 
Gather  the  corners  and  tie  with  a  string.  Steep  in  hot  cider  or  tea  for 
10  minutes  or  longer  if  you  want  a  stronger  flavor. 

•  Always  chill  juices  or  sodas  before  adding  to  beverage  recipes. 

•  To  cool  your  punch,  float  an  ice  ring  made  from  the  punch  rather 
than  using  ice  cubes.  Not  only  is  this  more  decorative,  but  it  also 
inhibits  melting  and  diluting. 

•  Place  fresh  or  dried  mint  in  the  bottom  of  a  cup  of  hot  chocolate  for 
a  cool  and  refreshing  taste. 

•  One  lemon  yields  about  Va  cup  juice;  one  orange  yields  about  1/3  cup 
juice.  This  is  helpful  in  making  fresh  orange  juice  or  lemonade! 

•  Never  boil  coffee;  it  brings  out  the  acid  and  causes  a  bitter  taste. 
Store  ground  coffee  in  the  refrigerator  or  freezer  to  keep  it  fresh. 

•  Always  use  COLD  water  for  electric  drip  coffee  makers.  Use  1  to  2 
tablespoons  ground  coffee  for  each  cup  of  water. 

•  Seeds  and  nuts,  both  shelled  and  unshelled,  keep  best  and  longest 
when  stored  in  the  freezer.  Unshelled  nuts  crack  more  easily  when 
frozen.  Nuts  and  seeds  can  be  used  directly  from  the  freezer. 

•  Cheeses  should  be  served  at  room  temperature,  approximately  70°. 


37497-jb-1a 


Appetizers  &  Beverages 

Artichoke  spread 

2  cans  artichoke  hearts,  mashed 

1  c.  Parmesan  cheese 

1  c.  Hellmann's  mayonnaise 

Mix  together.  Heat  in  350°  oven  30  minutes. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Cheese  sall 

2  (6-oz.)  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

2  (5-oz.)  jars  sharp  cheddar  cheese  spread 
1  (5-oz.)  jar  blue  cheese  spread 

3  T.  wine  vinegar 
Dash  garlic  salt 

1  c.  finely  chopped  nuts 

Allow  cheese  to  soften,  mix  all  except  nuts  and  place  in  refrigerator  to 
harden.  Remove  and  roll  in  chopped  nuts. 

Louise  Butt  Pulley 


Clam  pip 

1  (3-oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

2  tsp.  grated  onion 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

3  or  4  drops  hot  pepper  sauce 
1A  tsp.  salt 

1  can  minced  clams 

Mix  together  all  ingredients.  Serve  with  chips. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Appetizers  &  Beverages 


Curry  dip 

1  c.  mayonnaise 
1  tsp.  grated  onion 
1  tsp.  horseradish 
1  tsp.  tarragon  vinegar 
Vz  tsp.  curry  powder 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  chill.  Good  with  raw  vegetables. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Piquant  cheese 

1/2  bottle  Heinz  chili  sauce 
1  lb.  sharp  cheese,  grated 
1  sm.  onion,  grated  (or  less) 
1  green  pepper,  grated  (or  less) 
Mayonnaise,  for  spreading  consistency 

Combine  above  ingredients  and  chill. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Raw  vegetable  sandwich  spread 

1  c.  celery,  diced 

1  onion,  diced 

2  sm.  carrots,  diced 

V2  green  pepper,  diced  or  grated 
1  diced  cucumber 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  c.  mayonnaise 

1  env.  Knox  gelatin 

Soak  gelatin  in  little  cold  water  then  melt  over  hot  water.  Mix  all  together. 
Add  gelatin  and  put  in  refrigerator.  When  ready  to  use,  eyread  on  bread. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


Spinach  sandwiches 

1  c.  sour  cream  (not  low-fat) 

1  c.  mayonna'i&e 

1  c.  sliced  water  chestnuts 

1  (10-oz.)  pkg.  frozen  chopped  spinach 

1  (1.4  oz.)  Knorr's  vegetable  soup  mix 

Thaw  and  squeeze  water  from  spinach.  Put  all  in  food  processor,  liquid 
first.  Touch  start  button  3  or  4  times  for  short  periods.  Don't  mix  any 
longer  than  necessary  to  chop  everything  well.  Spread  on  Fepperldqe 
Farm  very  thin  white  or  whole-wheat  bread. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Dried  eeef  canapes 

1  tsp.  minced  onion 
1  T.  butter 

Cook  until  tender.  Add: 

1  (21/2-oz.)  jar  dried  beef 
1  (3-oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

Spread  on  rye  wafers. 

Les  &  Lou  Watson 


Holiday  cheese  sall 

2  (&-oz.)  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

1  (8V2-OZ.)  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

2  c.  chopped  pecans 
2  T.  chopped  onion 

1  T.  seasoned  salt 

1A  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

Pecans,  parsley,  and  red  cherries,  for  garnish 

Soften  cream  cheese  and  carefully  stir  in  pineapple,  pecans,  qreen  pepper, 
onion  and  seasoned  salt.  Chill  well.  Form  into  ball  and  roll  In  pecans. 
Garnish  with  red  cherries  and  parsley.  Serve  with  crackers. 

Jane  Kellam  Eilertsen 


Appetizers  &  Beverages 


Nuts  &  bolts 

1  box  Cherries 
1  box  Corn  Chex 
1  box  Rice  Chex 
1  box  Wheat  Chex 

1  Ig.  can  salted  nuts  (pecans) 

2  sticks  margarine 

3  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 
2  T.  onion  salt 

2  T.  garlic  salt 
2  T.  celery  salt 

Melt  margarine  in  par  and  add  sauce  ard  seasoning  salts.  Pour  over 
mixed  cereal  and  bake  at  300°  for  1  hour;  stir  every  15  to  20  minutes. 

Les  &  Lou  Watson 


Cranberry  punch 

3  c.  sugar 

3  c.  water 

3  c.  lemonade  (1  Ig.  or  2  sm.  cans) 

3  c.  orangeade 

2  c.  pineapple  juice 

2  qt.  ginger  ale 

2  bottles  cranberry  juice 

Soil  sugar  and  water,  then  add  other  ingredients.  Refrigerate. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 

Recipe  Favorites 


onps9  oalach 
Vegetaoles 


Pattie  West  Flanagan  Whitehurst 

1859-1928 


37497-jb-2s 


Helpful  Hints 

Fresh  lemon  juice  will  remove  onion  scent  from  hands. 

To  save  money,  pour  all  leftover  vegetables  and  water  in  which  they 
are  cooked  into  a  freezer  container.  When  full,  add  tomato  juice  and 
seasoning  to  create  a  "free"  soup. 

Three  large  stalks  of  celery,  chopped  and  added  to  about  two  cups 
of  beans  (navy,  brown,  pinto,  etc.),  will  make  them  easier  to  digest. 

When  cooking  vegetables  that  grow  above  ground,  the  rule  of  thumb 
is  to  boil  them  without  a  cover. 

A  lump  of  sugar  added  to  water  when  cooking  greens  helps  vegeta- 
bles retain  their  fresh  color. 

Never  soak  vegetables  after  slicing;  they  will  lose  much  of  their  nutri- 
tional value. 

Fresh  vegetables  require  little  seasoning  or  cooking.  If  the  vegetable 
is  old,  dress  it  up  with  sauces  or  seasoning. 

To  quickly  bake  potatoes,  place  them  in  boiling  water  for  10  to  15 
minutes.  Pierce  their  skins  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  preheated  oven. 

To  cut  down  on  odors  when  cooking  cabbage,  cauliflower,  etc.,  add 
a  little  vinegar  to  the  cooking  water. 

To  avoid  tears  when  cutting  onions,  try  cutting  them  under  cold  run- 
ning water  or  briefly  placing  them  in  the  freezer  before  cutting. 

A  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  added  to  potatoes  before  draining  will 
make  them  extra  white  when  mashed. 

To  avoid  toughened  beans  or  corn,  add  salt  midway  through  cooking. 

For  an  easy  no-mess  side  dish,  try  grilling  your  vegetables  along 
with  your  meat. 

To  dress  up  buttered,  cooked  vegetables,  sprinkle  them  with  toast- 
ed sesame  seeds,  toasted  chopped  nuts,  canned  french-fried 
onions  or  slightly  crushed  seasoned  croutons. 


37497-jb-2s 


Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables 

Baked  potato  soup 

4  Ig.  baking  potatoes 

Vz  c.  butter  or  margarine 

1/2  c.  flour 

6  c.  milk 

3A  tsp.  salt 

Vz  tsp.  pepper 

4  green  onions 

12  slices  bacon,  cooked,  crumbled  &  divided 

11/4  c.  shredded  cheddar  cheese 

1  (3-oz.)  ctn.  sour  cream 

Wash  potatoes  and  prick,  several  times  with  fork.  Bake  at  400°  for  1 
hour  or  until  done.  Let  cool.  Cut  potatoes  in  half  lengthwise;  scoop  out 
pulp  and  set  aside.  Discard  skins.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan  over  low 
heat;  add  flour,  stirring  until  smooth.  Cook  1  minute  stirring  constantly. 
Gradually  add  milk;  cook  over  medium  heat  until  mixture  is  thickened  and 
bubbly.  Add  potato  pulp,  salt,  pepper,  2  tablespoons  green  onions,  V2  cup 
bacon  and  1  cup  cheese.  Cook  until  heated  and  stir  in  sour  cream.  Add 
extra  milk  if  necessary  for  desired  consistency.  Serve  with  remaining 
onions,  bacon  and  cheese. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Bean  soup 

1  lb.  dried  great  northern  beans 

1  ham  hock  or  1  pkg.  sliced  ham  hock 

2  c.  cut-up  celery 
2  c.  cut-up  onion 

1  Ig.  can  or  2  sm.  cans  whole  peeled  tomatoes,  cut-up 

Soak  beans  overnight  covered  with  water.  Next  day,  put  ham  hock  in  2 
quarts  water.  Let  cook  a  little  while.  Next,  add  beans.  Let  cook  IV2  hours. 
Add  celery,  tomatoes  and  onions.  Let  cook  another  hour.  Add  pinch  of 
sugar.  May  have  to  cook  longer.  Beans  should  be  soft. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables 


Lemon  jello  deluxe  salad 

1  lg.  pkg.  lemon  Jello 

1  c.  boiling  water 

1  lg.  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  can  lemon  pie  filling 

Pour  boiling  water  over  Jello  and  stir  until  dissolved  completely.  Add 
pineapple  and  pie  filling. 

Note:  For  a  firmer  salad,  add  V2  package  plain  gelatin  to  Jello  before  dis- 
solving. 

Mary  I3utt  Shafer 


Party  salad 

1  sm.  pkg.  lemon  Jello 

1  sm.  pkg.  lime  Jello 

2  c.  hot  water 

1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  c.  cottage  cheese 

1  c.  nuts 

1  (No.  2)  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  lg.  carrot,  grated 

1  tsp.  horseradish 

V3  c.  light  cream  or  evaporated  milk 

Mix  Jello  and  hot  water.  Let  cool.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Refrigerate 
several  hours. 

Ruby  F3utt  Fentress 


Frozen  fruit  salad 

V2  pt.  mayonnaise 

4  T.  confectioners'  sugar 

2  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

1  can  fruits  for  salad,  drained 

V2  pt.  cream,  whipped  until  stiff 

12  maraschino  cherries,  cut  in  half 

Mix  mayonnaise,  sugar  and  cream  cheese  until  smooth,  add  fruit  and 
cherries  and  fold  in  whipped  cream.  Line  refrigerator  trays  with  waxed 
paper.  Four  in  mixture  and  freeze  until  firm. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Orange  congealed  salad 

1  sm.  pkg.  cream  cheese 
V2  c.  mayonnaise 

blend  well  and  add: 

2  boxes  lemon  Jello,  dissolved  in  2  c.  hot  water 

3  oranges,  peeled  and  cut  up 
1  orange  peel,  grated 

1  sm.  can  crushed  pineapple 

Four  into  Pyrex  pan  and  refrigerate. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Pineapple  salad 

2  c.  crushed  pineapple 

1  c.  grated  New  York  state  cheese 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  whipping  cream,  whipped  before 

2  T.  gelatin 
1/2  c.  nuts 

Melt  gelatin  in  a  little  cold  water.  Heat  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and  sugar; 
add  gelatin  while  hot  and  let  cool.  Add  grated  cheese,  nuts  and  whipping 
cream.  Let  set  in  ice  box  until  congealed. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


3749701  Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables 


Fresh  fruit  dressing 

1  sm.  ctn.  sour  cream 

Vz  c.  4X  sugar 

Grated  rind  of  lemon  and  orange 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  and  refrigerate. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Dressing  for  spinach  salad 

1  c.  salad  oil 

3A  c.  sugar 

V2  c.  ketchup 

1A  tsp.  salt 

Va  c.  vinegar 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  med.  onion,  chopped 

Mix  together  in  blender.  Will  keep  refrigerated  for  a  long  time. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Apricot  salad 

1  (15-oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple,  don't  drain 
1  (6-oz.)  pkg.  apricot  gelatin 
1  c.  hot  water 

1  (6-oz.)  pkg.  softened  cream  cheese 

2  env.  whipped  topping 
1  c.  celery,  chopped 

1  c.  chopped  nuts 

Mix  pineapple,  gelatin  and  water  and  cook  10  minutes.  Cool  slightly.  Add 
cream  cheese.  Chill  until  partly  set.  Make  up  whipped  topping  and  fold  in 
celery  and  nuts.  Add  to  gelatin  mixture.  Chill  until  set. 

Betty  Anne  Kellam  Huey 


a 


Lemon  jello  salad 

3  pkgs.  lemon  Jello 

3  c.  hot  water 

3  c.  cold  water 

Miniature  marshmallows 

3  Ig.  bananas 

1  (No.  2)  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained  (save  juice) 

Make  Jello,  refrigerate  and  let  set  until  syrupy.  Add  bananas  and  pine- 
apple. Pour  into  a  9  x  12  x  2-inch  pan.  Cover  with  miniature  marshmallows; 
refrigerate  until  firm.  Add  topping  and  refrigerate  at  least  1  hour. 

Topping: 

V2  c.  sugar 

V2  c.  pineapple  juice 

1  T.  flour 

1  egg,  well-beaten 

1  T.  butter 

1/2  c.  whipping  cream 

Mix  sugar,  juice,  flour  and  egg  in  saucepan  and  cook  until  thick.  Remove 
from  heat,  add  butter  and  cool.  When  sauce  is  cold,  whip  cream  and  fold 
Into  eauce.  Spread  over  firm  Jello. 

Mary  Anne  drown  Simmons 


Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables 


Pasta  salad 


1  (12-oz.)  pkg.  angel  hair  pasta,  broken  up 
1/2  lb.  zucchini,  sliced  thin  and  quartered 
1A  lb.  green  beans,  cut  bite-size 
V3  c.  sliced  black  olives 

1  c.  cocktail  tomatoes,  quartered 

2  green  onions,  chopped 

Dressing: 

1A  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

74  c.  white  wine  vinegar  or  tarragon  vinegar 

2/3  c.  olive  oil 

2  T.  water 

1  pkg.  Good  Seasons  Italian  dressing  mix 

Cook  zucchini  and  snaps  in  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Rinse  in  cold 
water.  Cook  pasta  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Combine  zucchini,  beans,  olives 
and  onlone  with  pasta.  Mix  dressing  ingredients,  pour  over  pasta  and 
toss.  Best  if  allowed  to  marinate  overnight.  Recipe  can  be  doubled.  Add 
tomatoes  before  serving  cooked  chicken  or  seafood  can  be  added. 

Betty  Anne  Kellam  Huey 


Shrimp  aspic 

2  pkgs.  lemon  gelatin 

4  c.  tomato  juice 

1  T.  dry  mustard 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  c.  sliced  stuffed  olives 

11/2  lbs.  sm.  shrimp,  cooked  and  cut  in  half 

1/2  tsp.  red  pepper 

1  tsp.  salt 

IV2  c.  chopped  celery 

Mayonnaise 

Follow  directions  to  make  gelatin  using  tomato  juice  Instead  of  water. 
Add  the  remaining  Ingredients.  Mix  and  pour  in  mold.  Refrigerate  until 
congealed.  Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


10 


Tomato  aspic 

4  c.  tomato  juice 

3  T.  lemon  juice 

2  T.  powdered  sugar 

4  T.  plain  gelatin,  soaked  in  V2  c.  cold  water 
3it  of  bay  leaf 

1/2  c.  mild  vinegar 
1  tsp.  salt 

Heat  1  cup  tomato  juice  with  sugar;  salt  and  bay  leaf.  Add  soaked  gelatin 
and  stir  until  it  dissolves;  strain.  Add  remaining  tomato  juice,  lemon 
juice  and  vinegar.  Fill  2- pint  ring  molds.  Refrigerate.  Serve  with  lettuce 
and  mayonnaise. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Cucumber  aspic 

4  unpeeled  cucumbers,  grated  and  drained 
1  med.  onion,  grated 
1  c.  vinegar 

1  tsp.  salt 
Pinch  of  pepper 

2  env.  gelatin 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  V2  cup  cold  water.  Bring  2  cups  water  to  boil;  add 
gelatin  and  let  cool.  Add  other  ingredients.  Chill. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables  11 


Posh  squash 

2  lbs.  yellow  squash,  sliced 

2  eggs 

1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  sm.  onion,  chopped 

1A  green  pepper 

1  c.  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  squash  until  just  tender.  Drain  well.  Seat  eggs  well  and  add  all 
ingredients  to  eggs.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Dot  with  butter  or 
top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


5QUASH  CASSEROLE 

3  lbs.  yellow  squash 

2  med.  onions,  chopped 

2  carrots,  sliced 

V2  pt.  sour  cream 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  sm.  jar  pimentos,  chopped 

1  pkg.  herb  seasoned  stuffing  mix 

1  stick  butter,  melted 

Cook  the  squash,  onions,  and  carrots  in  a  small  amount  of  salted  water 
and  drain.  Combine  with  sour  cream,  soup,  salted  water  and  drain.  Combine 
with  sour  cream,  soup  and  pimentos.  Add  butter  to  herb  stuffing.  Layer 
squash  mixture  alternately  with  stuffing  mix  in  casserole  dish  beginning 
and  ending  with  herb  stuffing.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  (Halves 
easily  for  smaller  family.) 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


12 


Broccoli  casserole 

2  boxes  frozen  broccoli  or  fresh  broccoli 

8  oz.  Velveeta  cheese 

24  Ritz  crackers 

1  stick  margarine,  melted 

Steam  broccoli  then  place  in  baking  dish.  Chop  cheese  into  small  pieces 
and  place  over  broccoli;  crumble  crackere  over  cheese  and  pour  melted 
margarine  over  the  crackers.  Bake  at  350°  approximately  25  minutes 
or  until  bubbly. 

Scott  and  Lynda  3rown 


Broccoli  casserole 

2  pkgs.  chopped  broccoU 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

3/4  c.  mayonnaise 

1  c.  grated  sharp  cheese 

2  T.  chopped  or\\or\ 

2  slightly  beaten  eggs 
Cracker  crumbs 

Cook  broccoli  as  directed;  combine  soup,  mayonnaise,  cheese,  onion  and 
eggs.  Add  broccoli,  dot  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Harvard  eeets 

2  cans  beets  (some  juice) 

1  c.  sugar 

2/3  c.  vinegar 

1  T.  butter  or  margarine 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1/2  T.  cornstarch 

Combine  sugar,  vinegar  and  juice  from  beets  together  and  simmer  20  to 
30  minutes.  Add  beets,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  cook  15 
minutes.  Thicken  with  1  to  2  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


6oup,  5a lads  &  Vegetables  13 


Cauliflower  eake 


1  Ig.  cauliflower,  cut  into  florets 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

3  c.  water 

1/3  c.  margarine,  melted 

1  T.  sugar 

V2  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  pepper 

1  c.  round  buttery  cracker  crumbs 

IV2  c.  (6  oz.)  shredded  cheddar  cheese,  divided 

1  med.  onion,  chopped 

Vz  c.  chopped  green  bell  pepper 

1  (16-oz.)  can  whole  tomatoes,  undrained  and  chopped 

Combine  first  3  ingredients  in  a  large  saucepan;  bring  to  a  boil.  Cover, 
reduce  heat  and  cook  5  minutes  or  until  tender;  drain.  Set  aside.  Combine 
margarine  and  next  4  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl;  stir  in  cauliflower,  1  cup 
cheese,  onion,  pepper  and  tomatoes.  Spoon  Into  lightly  greased  9  x  13-inch 
baking  dish  and  bake  at  350°  for  35  minutes.  Add  remaining  Vz  cup 
cheese  and  bake  5  additional  minutes. 

Scott  and  Lynda  E3rcwn 


French  onion  casserole 

4  to  6  med.  onions,  sliced 

4  T.  butter 

2  T.  flour 

Dash  pepper 

3A  c.  beef  bouillon 

'A  c.  dry  sherry 

2  slices  toast,  buttered  and  cubed 
Vz  c.  shredded  Swiss  cheese 

3  T.  Parmesan  cheese 

Melt  butter.  Cook  onions  in  butter  until  soft.  Stir  in  flour  and  pepper. 
Add  liquids.  Cook  until  thick  and  bubbly.  Put  in  greased  1 -quart  casserole. 
Sprinkle  with  toast  and  cheeses.  Bake  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Larry  and  Penny  Pulley 


14 


CrUNCHY  C0LE5LAW 

2  pkgs.  Ramen  noodles  (chicken  or  beef),  broken  up 
1  c.  slivered  almonds 
1  pkg.  cabbage  coleslaw 

1  bunch  green  onions,  chopped 

Brown  noodles  and  almonds  on  cookie  sheet  for  7  minutes  at  400°. 
Combine  cabbage  and  onions;  add  dressing. 

Dressing: 

V2  c.  oil 

V3  c.  vinegar 

V2  c.  sugar 

2  pkgs.  flavoring  from  Ramen  r\ood\ee 

Add  noodlee  and  almonds  as  close  to  serving  time  as  possible  for  maxi- 
mum "crunchiness". 

Sara  Shafer  Hetzler 


Golden  corn  fritters 

3  eggs,  separated 

2  T.  milk 

V2  tsp.  salt 

2  T.  flour 

1  (1-lb.  1-oz.)  can  cream-style  corn 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Combine  milk,  flour  and  salt 
to  make  smooth  paste.  Blend  into  beaten  egg  yolks.  Stir  in  corn.  Beat 
egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  Gently  fold  in  corn  mixture.  Drop  by 
tablespoons  on  hot  buttered  griddle.  Cook  over  medium  to  low  heat 
until  golden  brown.  Turn  and  brown  on  other  side.  Serve  hot.  Makes  50 
(2-inch)  fritters. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Soup,  5alads  &  Vegetables  15 


Corn  pupping 

3  eggs,  beaten 

2  c.  milk 
1/2  c.  milk 
Vz  c.  sugar 

1  can  cream-style  corn 

3  level  T.  cornstarch 

Grease  baking  dish  with  oleo.  Mix  above  Ingredients  together.  Bake  1  hour 
15  minutes  at  350°. 

Millard  "Brother"  &  Edith  Butt 


Celery  crunch 

4  c.  celery,  cut  into  1-in.  pieces 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

74  c.  diced  pimento 

6  oz.  mushrooms,  drained  and  chopped 

1  (5-oz.)  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 
74  c.  toasted,  slivered  almonds 

2  tsp.  melted  butter 

1/2  c.  soft  bread  crumbs 

Cook  celery  in  small  amount  of  boiling  water  until  crisp  (about  &  minutes) 
and  drain  well.  Add  sliced  water  chestnuts,  mushrooms,  condensed  soup 
and  pimentos.  Toss  bread  crumbs  and  almonds  in  melted  butter  and 
sprinkle  over  celery  mixture  in  casserole  dish.  Bake  350°  for  25  to  35 
minutes  until  bubbly  hot.  Serves  6. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


DlLLEP  CARROTS 

2  (10  oz.)  frozen  whole  carrots 
1  tsp.  sugar 

1  T.  butter  or  margarine 

2  tsp.  dried  dill  weed 

Cook  carrots  according  to  package  instructions  adding  sugar  to  water. 
Drain  well,  add  butter  and  dill  weed.  Toss  until  coated. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


16 


Marinated  carrots 

5  c.  carrots,  sliced  thin  crosswise 

1  sweet  onion,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  c.  sugar 

3A  c.  vinegar 

1/2  scant  c.  cooking  oil 

1  can  tomato  soup 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tsp.  prepared  mustard 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Peel  and  cook  carrots  until  tender.  Drain  carrots  and  put  in  large  bowl. 
Mix  remaining  ingredients  and  pour  over  carrots.  Refrigerate  for  at  least 
12  hours. 

Susan  drown  Flanagan 


Macaroni  and  cheese  casserole 

1  (8-oz.)  pkg.  elbow  macaroni 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  c.  med.  cheddar  cheese 
1  c.  sour  cream 

1/2  c.  chopped  onion 
5alt  and  pepper 
Potato  chips 

Cook  macaroni  and  drain.  Combine  all  ingredients  except  potato  chips. 
Pour  into  greased  casserole;  cover  with  crushed  potato  chips.  Do  not 
cover.  F3ake  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 

Mary  Anne  Drown  Simmons 


Soup,  5a lads  &  Vegetables  17 


Potato  casserole 

24  oz.  Ore  \da  hash  browns 

1  pt.  (2  c.)  sour  cream 

2  c.  grated  cheddar  cheese 
3A  stick  margarine 

1  tsp.  salt 
V2  tsp.  pepper 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
V2  c.  chopped  on\or\ 

2  tsp.  parsley 

Mix  together  above  ingredients.  Spread  in  large  buttered  casserole.  Bake 
350°  for  45  minutes.  Can  be  made  ahead  and  frozen. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Bull  heap  potatoes 

Potatoes 
Onions 

Green  peppers 
Vegetable  oil 
Salt  and  pepper 
Texas  Pete 
Bacon  bits 
Paprika 
Cheese 

In  Pyrex  dish  cut  potatoes  and  onlone  in  chunks.  Sprinkle  with  remaining 
ingredients  and  toss  to  coat  potatoes.  Bake  375°  for  about  45  minutes 
or  until  potatoes  are  done.  Remove  from  oven  and  add  shredded  cheese 
on  top.  Return  to  oven  to  melt  cheese. 

Lee  &  Ruby  Fentress 


13 


Orange  glazed  sweet  potatoes 

3o\\  sweet  potatoes,  remove  skins,  cut  in  serving  pieces,  pour  sauce 
over  and  bake 

Sauce: 

2  T.  grated  orange  rind 
1  T.  cornstarch 

1/3  c.  white  sugar 
V2  c.  brown  sugar 
1  c.  orange  juice 

3  T.  margarine 

Combine  above  in  saucepan.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Serve 
warm. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Sweet  potato  casserole 

3  c.  mashed  sweet  potatoes 
12/3  c.  sugar 

4  eggs,  well-beaten 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  lemon 
1  tsp.  nutmeg 
1  tsp.  cinnamon 
Dash  of  salt 
2Va  c.  milk 
1  stick  butter 
1  c.  coconut,  opt. 

Combine  mashed  potatoes,  sugar,  eggs,  vanilla,  lemon  and  seasonings. 
Add  milk  in  small  amounts.  Pour  into  casserole  greased  with  a  pat  of 
butter.  Dot  top  with  remaining  butter.  3ake  400°  until  firm  and  brown. 
One  cup  coconut  can  be  used  with  milk. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables  19 


Recipe  Favorites 


20 


iVLain  JDisJke 
asseroles 


Mary  Eliza  Flanagan  Butt 

12/18/1878-10/03/1958 


37497-jb-3m 


Helpful  Hints 


When  preparing  a  casserole,  make  an  additional  batch  to  freeze.  It 
makes  a  great  emergency  meal  when  unexpected  guests  arrive. 
Just  take  the  casserole  from  the  freezer  and  bake  it  in  the  oven. 

To  keep  hot  oil  from  splattering,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  or  flour  in  the  pan 
before  frying. 

Never  overcook  foods  that  are  to  be  frozen.  Foods  will  finish  cook- 
ing when  reheated.  Don't  refreeze  cooked  thawed  foods. 

A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  added  to  simmering  rice  will  keep  the 
grains  separated. 

Green  pepper  may  change  the  flavor  of  frozen  casseroles.  Clove, 
garlic  and  pepper  flavors  get  stronger  when  they  are  frozen,  while 
sage,  onion  and  salt  get  milder. 

Don't  freeze  cooked  egg  whites;  they  become  tough. 

Spray  your  grill  with  vegetable  oil  to  prevent  sticking. 

Instant  potatoes  are  a  good  stew  thickener. 

When  freezing  foods,  label  each  container  with  its  contents  and  the 
date  it  was  put  into  the  freezer.  Store  at  0°.  Always  use  frozen 
cooked  foods  within  one  to  two  months. 

Store  dried  pasta,  rice  (except  brown  rice)  and  whole  grains  in  tight- 
ly covered  containers  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Always  refrigerate  brown 
rice,  and  refrigerate  or  freeze  grains  if  they  will  not  be  used  with- 
in five  months. 

Glazed  pottery,  earthenware,  glass,  metal  -  all  can  be  used  for 
casseroles.  Many  of  these  casserole  containers  come  in  bright  col- 
ors and  pleasing  designs  to  complement  your  tableware.  The  type  of 
container  you  use  makes  very  little  difference,  as  long  as  it  is  heat- 
proof. 

Souffle  dishes  are  designed  with  straight  sides  to  help  your  souffle 
climb  to  magnificent  heights.  Ramekins  are  good  for  serving  individ- 
ual casseroles. 

To  keep  boiled  lasagna  noodles  from  sticking  together  as  they  cool, 
keep  the  noodles  separate  by  draping  them  over  the  rim  of  a  pot. 


Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles 

Chili 

1  lb.  hamburger 

1  Ig.  can  tomato  juice 

Vz  c.  ketchup 

1  green  pepper 

2  onions 

2  T.  chili  powder 
2  T.  hot  sauce 

1  T.  red  pepper 

2  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 
Salt  and  pepper 

3  cans  kidney  beans 

Saute  onions  and  green  pepper.  Fry  hamburger  until  red  is  gone.  Combine 
with  rest  of  ingredients  and  cook  V/z  hours.  Thicken  with  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  water. 

Pattie  Butt  F3onney 


Dutch  meat  loaf 

IV2  lbs.  ground  beef 
1  c.  bread  crumbs 
1  sm.  onion 

1  egg,  beaten 
11/2  tsp.  salt 
Vs  tsp.  pepper 

Vz  can  tomato  sauce 

Mix  above  ingredients  and  form  into  loaf.  Place  in  shallow  pan.  Combine 
the  following: 

Vz  can  tomato  sauce 
3A  c.  water 

2  T.  prepared  mustard 
2  T.  vinegar 

2  T.  brown  sugar 

Four  over  meat  loaf.  Baste  often.  Cook  11A  hour  at  350°. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  drown 


Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles  21 


BURRITO  3AKE 

1  c.  Bisquick 

1A  c.  water 

1  (16-oz.)  can  refried  beans 

1  lb.  ground  beef,  cooked  and  drained 

1  c.  thick  taco  salsa 

V/z  c.  shredded  cheddar  cheese 

Greaee  10  x  11/2-inch  pie  plate.  Mix  Bisquick,  water  and  beans.  Spread  in 
pie  plate.  Layer  remaining  ingredients  on  bean  mixture.  Sake  30  minutes  at 
375°.  Serve  with  sour  cream  and  chopped  tomato  ar\d  lettuce  if  desired. 

Sara  Shafer  Hetzler 


Eggplant  and  hamburger  casserole 

1  med.  eggplant,  sliced 
1  lb.  lean  hamburger 
V2  lb.  cheese 
1  onion,  chopped 
Salt  and  pepper 

Salt  and  pepper  eggplant  and  Vz  onion,  cook  until  tender,  then  drain. 
Salt  and  pepper  hamburger  and  Vz  onion;  cook  until  pink  is  gone.  In  a  7 
x  11-inch  Pyrex,  layer  hamburger,  thinly  sliced  cheese  and  eggplant  mixture. 
Sprinkle  top  generously  with  cracker  crumbs.  3ake  until  crumbs  begin  to 
brown  about  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Susan  drown  Flanagan 


22 


Barbecued  beef 

21/2  to  3  lbs.  bottom  round  or  31/2  lbs.  bone  in  chuck  roast 

Cook  beef  in  water  until  it  pulls  apart  easily  (2  to  2Vz  hours).  Tear  beef 
into  small  pieces  (4  cups).  Set  aside. 

1A  c.  vinegar 

11A  c.  juice  from  cooked  meat 

1A  c.  brown  sugar 

4  tsp.  mustard 

1  tsp.  salt 

1A  tsp.  pepper 

2  onions,  chopped 
V2  c.  margarine 

Simmer  vinegar  through  margarine  20  minutes  then  add  the  following 
and  simmer  45  minutes  longer. 

4  c.  cooked  beef  (torn  into  small  pieces) 

1  c.  catsup 

2  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Make  at  least  1  day  ahead.  This  recipe  may  be  doubled,  tripled  or  quadru- 
pled. If  cooking  larger  amount  you  do  not  need  as  much  sauce. 

Jane  Kellam  Eilertsen 


3eef  barbecue 

3  lbs.  beef  roast  (Inexpensive  cut;  I  use  boneless  chuck  roast) 

3A  bottle  chili  sauce 

IV2  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 

3  T.  brown  sugar 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  or  2  onions,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

Cover  beef  with  water.  Cook  slowly  until  the  beef  can  be  shredded  with  a 
fork.  Water  will  evaporate.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Cook  slowly  until 
mixture  is  thickened  and  is  of  serving  consistency. 

Verna  3rown  Leonard 


Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles  23 


Magic  stew 

2  lbs.  stew  beef 

1  env.  onion  soup  mix 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

1  can  whole  mushrooms 

1/2  c.  white  wine  or  dry  sherry 

V2  c.  water 

Toss  together.  Place  in  covered  casserole.  E3ake  325°  for  3  hours.  Serve 
over  rice  or  noodles. 

Mary  Robinson  Shafer  Meeks 


SHOYU  POT  ROAST  3EEF 


5-lb.  chuck  roast 

2  onions,  sliced 

V2  c.  oil 

V2  c.  soy  sauce 

2  cloves  garlic,  crushed 

2  T.  vinegar 

V2  c.  sugar 

1  T.  ginger,  crushed 

Salt  and  pepper 

1  to  2  c.  water 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  meat  and  water.  Pour  mix  over  meat  and  let 
stand  overnight  in  refrigerator,  turning  occasionally.  Dredge  meat  in  flour; 
brown  on  all  sides.  Add  1  to  2  cups  water  and  soy  sauce  mix.  Cook  slowly, 
about  3  hours. 

Verna  Brown  Leonard 


24 


London  eroil  marinade 

2  tsp.  salt 
1  tsp.  pepper 
V2  tsp.  basil 
1/2  tsp.  rosemary 

1  onion,  chopped 

2  T.  wine  vinegar 
4  T.  salad  oil 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  pour  over  meat  in  a  shallow  glass  pan.  Pierce 
meat  and  turn.  Marinate  anywhere  from  1  hour  to  5  hours,  depending  on 
how  strong  a  flavor  you  want. 

Billy  &  Alice  Fentress 


Italian  casserole 

V/z  lbs.  ground  beef,  browned  with  1  onion,  cut  up 

1  pkg.  flat  medium  noodlee,  boil  in  salt  water  until  medium  done 

Mix  and  add: 

2  cans  tomato  soup 

1  can  whole  kernel  corn 
1  can  whole  mushrooms 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  well;  put  in  casserole  and  grate  sharp  cheese  generously  on  top.  Bake 
at  350°  for  about  40  minutes  with  cover  and  10  minutes  without  cover. 
Serve  hot. 

Mary  F3utt  Shafer 


Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles  25 


Chicken  cranberry  layers 

Layer  1: 

1  env.  plain  gelatin,  soften  in  1A  c.  cold  water,  dissolve  over  hot 
water 

Add: 

1  (1-lb.)  can  (2  c.)  whole  cranberry  sauce 
1  (9-oz.)  can  (1  c.)  crushed  pineapple 
1/2  c.  broken  nuts 
1  T.  lemon  juice 

Pour  into  9  x  9  x  2-inch  or  10  x  6  x  11/2-inch  baking  dish.  Chill  until  firm. 

Layer  2: 

1  env.  plain  gelatin,  soften  in  1A  c.  cold  water,  dissolve  over  hot 
water 

Blend  in: 

1  c.  mayonnaise 

1/2  c.  water 

3  T.  lemon  juice 

1  tsp.  salt 

Add: 

2  c.  diced  chicken 
V2  c.  diced  celery 

Pour  oyer  first  layer.  Chill  until  firm.  Cut  into  squares  to  serve. 

Mary  3utt  Shafer 


26 


Hot  chicken  salad 

3  c.  diced  cooked  chicken 
VA  c.  diced  celery 
V2  c.  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  c.  mayonnaise 

1  c.  shredded  almonds 

2  hard-cooked  eggs,  mashed 

IV2  tsp.  salt  and  pepper,  combined 
Top  with  potato  chips 

Bake  425°  for  20  minutes. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


Easy  chicken  a  la  king 

1  c.  chopped,  cooked  chicken 

1  (10-oz.)  can  cream  of  chicken  soup,  undiluted 

1/4  c.  milk  (I  use  less) 

1  (2-oz.)  jar  diced  pimento,  drained 

1  (4-oz.)  can  whole  mushrooms,  drained 

V2  tsp.  salt 

Ve  tsp.  pepper 

Chow  mein  noodles  or  hot  cooked  rice 

Combine  first  7  ingredients  in  heavy  saucepan.  Cook  over  low  heat  10 
minutes,  stirring  often.  Serve  over  noodles  or  rice  or  whatever. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Chicken  casserole 


2  c.  cooked  chicken,  cut  up 

1  c.  celery 

1  onion 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

1  can  chicken  broth  or  1  bouillon  cube  mixed  with  1  c.  water 

1  med.  can  chow  mein  noodles 

1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts 

Saute  celery  and  onion.  Mix  with  other  ingredients.  Bake  at  350°  for  25 
to  30  minutes. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Main  Pishes  &  Casseroles  27 


Curried  turkey  casserole 

5m.  amount  fat  from  turkey  stock  or  Crisco 

1  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

1  c.  chopped  onions 

1  c.  chopped  celery 

V/z  c.  uncooked  rice 

4  c.  turkey  stock 

3  c.  cubed  turkey 

1  T.  curry 

Salt 

Pepper 

Silvered  almonds  for  topping 

In  large  frying  skillet  put  fat  from  turkey  stock  or  Orleco.  Saute  pepper, 
onion  and  celery-,  add  rice,  stock  and  turkey.  As  the  rice  cooks  it  will  get 
dry  and  you  will  have  to  use  more  stock  or  water.  Cook,  stirring  often 
until  rice  is  thoroughly  cooked,  season  with  curry,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Pour  in  baking  dish,  top  with  slivered  almonds,  bake  until  heated 
thoroughly.  Use  Imagination  and  taste. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


Barbecue  sauce  for  chicken 

1  c.  water 

3  T.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  T.  vinegar 
1  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  Tabasco  sauce 
1A  c.  lemon  juice 

1  c.  ketchup 

2  T.  brown  sugar 
V2  tsp.  mustard 

1/2  c.  chopped  celery 
1  med.  onion,  chopped 

Mix  all  ingredients,  simmer  10  minutes,  then  pour  over  chicken  that  has 
been  browned.  Bake  at  350°  basting  often. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


26 


Party  chicken 

Skin  and  bone  &  chicken  breast  halves.  Wrap  each  in  a  strip  of  bacon. 
Place  in  baking  dish  on  a  bed  of  dried  beef  (1  package).  Mix  Vz  pint  of 
sour  cream  and  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup.  Pour  over  chicken  and 
bake  at  275°  for  2  hours.  Gravy  is  good  over  rice.  Sprinkle  top  with  paprika. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Chicken  and  rice 

1  cut-up  frying  chicken  or  chicken  pieces 
1  c.  uncooked  rice  (not  Minute  Rice) 
1  pkg.  or\\or\  soup  mix 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  c.  water 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  rice,  soup  mix,  soup,  water,  salt  and  pepper  together  and  pour  Into 
9  x  13-inch  casserole.  Wash  salt  and  pepper  chicken  and  lay  on  top  of 
mixture.  Cover  and  bake  2  hours  350°. 

Mary  Anne  Brown  Simmons 


Red  simmered  chicken 

4  chicken  breasts 

V3  c.  soy  sauce 

V3  c.  sherry 

3  T.  brown  sugar 

2/3  c.  water 

IV2  c.  celery,  sliced  diagonally 

11/2  c.  scallions,  sliced  diagonally 

Bring  chicken,  soy  sauce,  sherry,  water  and  sugar  to  a  boil.  Cover  and 
simmer  30  minutes.  Cool  chicken,  cut  in  pieces  and  replace  in  liquid.  Add 
vegetables.  Cook  uncovered  for  15  minutes.  Vegetables  are  crunchy.  Serve 
on  crisp  noodles  or  rice. 

Verna  Brown  Leonard 


Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles  29 


Savory  crescent  turkey  squares 

(Excellent  use  of  leftover  turkey) 

1  (3-oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese,  softened 
3  T.  butter,  melted 

2  c.  cooked,  cubed  turkey  or  2  (5-oz.)  cans  boned  turkey 
1A  tsp.  salt 

1/e  tsp.  pepper 

2  T.  milk 

1  T.  chopped  chives  or  onions 

1  T.  chopped  pimento,  if  desired 

1  (&-oz.)  can  Pillsbury  refrigerated  quick  crescent  or  Italian  flavor 

crescent  dinner  rolls 
3A  c.  seasoned  croutons,  crushed 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  In  medium  bowl,  blend  cream  cheese  and  2  table- 
spoons butter  or  margarine  (reserve  1  tablespoon)  until  smooth.  Add  the 
next  6  ingredients;  mix  well.  Separate  crescent  dough  into  4  rectangles, 
firmly  press  perforations  to  seal.  Spoon  Vz  cup  meat  mixture  onto  center 
of  each  rectangle.  Pull  four  cornere  of  dough  to  top  center  of  meat 
mixture,  twist  slightly  and  seal  edges.  E3rush  tops  with  reserved  1  table- 
spoon butter.  Dip  in  crouton  crumbs.  Bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet 
20  to  25  minutes  until  golden  brown.  Makes  4  sandwiches.  (These  freeze 
exceptionally  well.) 

Larry  and  Fenny  Pulley 

5WEET  AND  SOUR  CHICKEN 

1  or  2  T.  oil 

1  lb.  chicken  breast 

1  \q.  onion,  cut  lengthwise  in  strips  and  halved 

2  bell  peppers,  any  color,  cut  into  1-in.  squares 
1  c.  ketchup 

1  (151/4-oz.)  can  chunk  pineapple  in  its  own  juice 
V2  c.  brown  sugar,  packed 

Cut  chicken  Into  bite-size  chunks.  Stir  fry  in  oil  over  very  high  heat,  5  to 
7  minutes  until  browned.  Remove  chicken  from  pan;  set  aside.  Add  onion 
and  bell  peppere  to  pan  and  stir  fry  2  to  3  minutes  until  onions  are 
translucent.  Add  ketchup,  brown  sugar  and  can  of  pineapple  with  its  juice. 
Add  chicken  back  to  pot.  Heat  through.  Serve  over  rice. 

Larry  and  Fenny  Pulley 


30 


Grilled  pork  tenderloin 

1  to  2  pork  tenderloins 
zfa  c.  Italian  dressing 
1/3  c.  teriyaki  sauce 

Slice  pork  tenderloins  diagonally  about  3A  inch  to  1  inch  thick.  Place  meat 
in  plastic  or  glass  dish.  Mix  together  Italian  dressing  and  teriyaki  sauce 
and  pour  over  pork.  Marinate  1  to  3  hours.  Grill  until  done. 

Billy  &  Alice  Fentress 


Southern  eareecue  crockpot  recipe 

7  to  3  lbs.  fresh  picnic  (make  sure  it  will  fit  into  your  crockpot) 
2  T.  salt 
1  T.  sugar 
Pepper  to  taste 
11A  c.  vinegar 

Trim  skin  and  fat  from  picnic.  Add  all  ingredients  to  crockpot  and  cook 
for  12  hours  or  overnight.  In  the  morning,  pour  juice  Into  separate  bowl, 
pull  bones  out  of  meat  (watch  for  small  bones).  Mince  now  or  later.  Cool 
meat  and  juice  separately  In  fridge.  Skim  fat  off  gelled  liquid.  Combine  2 
cups  of  defatted,  gelled  liquid  with  the  meat  and  put  back  Into  the 
crockpot.  Add  1  tablespoon  crushed  red  pepper.  Recipe  can  be  altered  to 
taste  by  adding  either  1  cup  of  Masterpiece  Smokey  or  Sauer's  sauce 
(vinegar  based)  or  more  of  the  gelled  liquid.  Experiment  to  suit  your  taste. 
Cook  in  crockpot  1  hour  more  on  low. 

Larry  &  Penny  Pulley 


37497-01  Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles  31 


Sausage  and  egg  casserole 

1  lb.  sausage,  crumbled  and  cooked 
6  eggs 

2  c.  milk 

1  tsp.  salt 

3  slices  white  bread,  cubed 
1  c.  grated  cneddar  cheese 
1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

Layer  bread,  sausage  and  cheese.  Mix  remaining  ingredients  and  pour  on 
top.  Let  stand  overnight  in  refrigerator.  Bake  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Verna  drown  Leonard 


Mary's  saked  cras 

1  lb.  crabmeat 

2  eggs,  beaten 

1  c.  mayonnaise 
Dash  of  hot  sauce 
Juice  of  1  lemon 
Butter 

Mix  eggs,  mayonnaise  and  seasoning.  Fold  in  crab  meat.  Put  in  greased 
baking  dish.  Dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Scalloped  oysters 

1  qt.  oysters  with  liquor 

1A  lb.  butter 

3  c.  cracker  crumbs  (saltines) 

Use  a  6  x  10-inch  baking  dish.  Put  in  layers  of  cracker  crumbs,  oysters 
and  dots  of  butter.  When  finished,  pour  oyster  liquor  over  it.  Cot  generously 
with  butter.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  to  35  minutes.  Serves  6  to  S>. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


32 


ureacis 


i 


.©. 


37497-jb-4b 


Helpful  Hints 


Over-ripe  bananas  can  be  peeled  and  frozen  in  a  plastic  container 
until  it's  time  to  bake  bread  or  cake. 

When  baking  bread,  a  small  dish  of  water  in  the  oven  will  help  keep 
the  crust  from  getting  too  hard  or  brown. 

Use  shortening,  not  margarine  or  oil,  to  grease  pans,  as  margarine 
and  oil  absorb  more  readily  into  the  dough  or  batter  (especially  bread). 

Use  a  metal  ice  tray  divider  to  cut  biscuits  in  a  hurry.  Press  into  the 
dough,  and  biscuits  will  separate  at  dividing  lines  when  baked. 

To  make  self-rising  flour,  mix  4  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  salt  and  2 
tablespoons  baking  powder,  and  store  in  a  tightly  covered  container. 

Hot  water  kills  yeast.  One  way  to  tell  the  correct  temperature  is  to 
pour  the  water  over  your  forearm.  If  you  cannot  feel  either  hot  or 
cold,  the  temperature  is  just  right. 

When  in  doubt,  always  sift  flour  before  measuring. 

When  baking  in  a  glass  pan,  reduce  the  oven  temperature  by  25°. 

When  baking  bread,  you  get  a  finer  texture  if  you  use  milk.  Water 
makes  a  coarser  bread. 

If  your  biscuits  are  dry  it  could  be  from  too  much  handling,  or  the 
oven  temperature  may  not  have  been  hot  enough. 

Nut  breads  are  better  if  stored  24  hours  before  serving. 

To  make  bread  crumbs,  toast  the  heels  of  bread  and  chop  in  a 
blender  or  food  processor. 

Cracked  eggs  should  only  be  used  in  dishes  that  are  thoroughly 
cooked;  they  may  contain  bacteria. 

The  freshness  of  eggs  can  be  tested  by  placing  them  in  a  large  bowl 
of  cold  water;  if  they  float,  do  not  use  them. 

For  a  quick,  low-fat  crunchy  topping  for  muffins,  sprinkle  the  tops 
with  Grape-Nuts  cereal  before  baking. 


37497-jb-4b 


Breads  &  Rolls 

Apple  eread 

1  c\t.  apples 

1  c.  sugar 

2/3  c.  water 

1  c.  flour  or  less 

Cinnamon  and  butter 

Mary  Eliza  Flanagan  Butt  "Granny1 


Virginia  egg  sread 

2  c.  sweet  milk 
1  tsp.  salt 
7/&  c.  cornmeal 
1  c.  water 

1  T.  butter 

2  T.  sugar 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately 

Stir  together  in  saucepan  all  ingredients  except  eggs.  Place  on  fire,  stir 
until  mixture  thickens  slightly  then  add  egg  yolks  and  stir  until  fairly 
thick.  Take  from  fire,  fold  in  egg  whites.  Put  in  well-greased  baking  pan. 
Bake  about  20  minutes  in  400°  oven. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  drown 


Breads  &  Rolls  33 


Spoonbread 

1/2  c.  plain  flour,  sifted 

V3  c.  corn  meal 

2  T.  sugar 

1  c.  boiling  water 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  c.  milk 

1  heaping  T.  shortening 

Melted  butter 

Combine  flour,  cornmeal  and  sugar.  Scald  with  boiling  water,  stirring  fast 
to  avoid  lumps.  Add  egg  and  milk.  Melt  shortening  in  pan  and  pour  in  the 
mixture.  Cook  30  minutes  at  400°.  Brush  with  butter  while  hot.  Serves 
6  to  3. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


Banana  nut  sread 

1  c.  sugar 

V2  c.  light  brown  sugar,  packed 

2  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  eggs 

4  T.  sour  milk 
4  ripe  bananas,  mashed 
V2  c.  chopped  pecans 
1  stick  margarine,  melted 

Put  all  ingredients  in  bowl.  Add  melted  margarine  last  and  stir  only  until 
ingredients  are  blended.  Line  bottoms  of  2  medium-sized  (<31/2  x  41/2  x 
21/2-inch)  loaf  pans  with  waxed  paper.  Divide  batter  ar\d  pour  into  loaf 
pans.  Bake  at  325°  for  45  to  50  minutes. 

Lou  Pulley 


34  37497-01 


Blueberry  muffins 

13A  c.  Bisquick  (regular  or  reduced-fat) 

1/3  c.  sugar 

1  egg 

3A  c.  milk 

1  T.  margarine,  melted 

3A  c.  fresh  blueberries 

Mix  first  5  ingredients  together.  Fold  in  blueberries.  Fill  baking  cups  2fe 
full.  Bake  at  400°  for  12  to  15  minutes.  Makes  1  dozen. 

Lou  Pulley 


Oatmeal  eread 

Pour  2  cups  boiling  water  over  1  cup  rolled  oats.  Let  stand  V2  hour, 
dissolve  2  packages  yeast  in  Vz  cup  lukewarm  water.  Add  to  oats  21/2 
teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  soft  Gutter  and  Vz  cup  honey.  Add  yeast. 
Add  6  cups  flour.  Stir  in  first  2  cups;  knead  in  last  2  cups.  Let  rise  until 
doubled.  Cut  down  and  put  in  2  greased  loaf  pans.  Let  rise  1  hour.  Place 
in  oven  4  inches  from  bottom.  Bake  at  325°  for  50  minutes. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Dumplings 

(Pastry) 

2  T.  Crisco 
1  c.  flour 
5a  It 

Make  up  with  ice  water  to  desired  consistency.  Roll  out;  cut  2  to  3  inches 
long.  Drop  in  boiling  stock. 

Louise  Butt  Pulley 


37497-01  Breads  &  Rolls  35 


Refrigerator  bran  muffins 

1  (15-oz.)  box  wheat  bran  flakes  cereal  with  raisins 
5  c.  all-purpose  flour 

3  c.  sugar 
5  tsp.  soda 

2  tsp.  salt 

4  eggs,  beaten 
1  qt.  buttermilk 
1  c.  shortening 

Combine  first  5  ingredients;  make  a  well  in  center  of  mixture.  Add  eggs, 
buttermilk  and  shortening  stirring  enough  to  moisten  dry  ingredients. 
Cover  and  store  in  refrigerator  until  ready  to  make  as  long  as  5  to  6 
weeks.  When  ready  to  bake,  epoon  batter  into  greased  muffin  tins,  filling 
2/3  full.  Bake  at  350°  for  20  minutes. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Cheese  biscuits 

V2  lb.  grated  sharp  cheddar  cheese 

2  c.  Rice  Krispies  cereal 

2  c.  flour 

2  sticks  margarine 

V2  tsp.  red  pepper 

V2  tsp.  salt 

Melt  margarine,  add  cheese  and  mix  well.  Add  flour  and  seasonings;  add 
Rice  Krispies  last.  Make  into  balls,  flatten  slightly  and  cook  on  ungreased 
cookie  sheet  at  325°  about  15  minute  or  until  browr). 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


36 


Sweet  potato  3\ecu\re 

2  c.  sweet  potatoes,  mashed 
2/3  c.  melted  shortening 

3  T.  or  almost  V2  c.  sugar 
2  T.  Pet  milk 

2  c.  self-rising  flour  or  plain  flour  and  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  potatoes,  sugar,  milk  and  shortening.  Then  add  flour.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Knead.  Pinch  off  and  shape  into  biscuits.  Bake  at  450°  for  20  minutes. 

Millard  "Brother"  &  Edith  Butt 


Sweet  potato  biscuits 

2  c.  warm  mashed,  cooked  sweet  potatoes 

V3  c.  oil 

5-c.  pkg.  3isquick  mix 

2  heaping  tsp.  baking  powder 

3A  c.  sugar 

Combine  potatoes,  oil  and  sugar.  Add  biscuit  mix  and  baking  powder  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Roll  out  on  lightly  floured  surface  into  1/2-inch  thickness. 
Cut  into  rounds.  Arrange  on  qreaeed  baking  sheet.  Bake  at  400°  for 
about  10  minutes.  Makes  3  dozen  large  or  6  dozen  small  biscuits. 

Susan  3rown  Flanagan 


Sweet  potato  rolls 


2  c.  cooked  sweet  potatoes,  mashed 

1  c.  sugar 

V3  c.  shortening 

V3  c.  warm  water 

2/3  tsp.  salt 

1  Ig.  egg  or  2  sm.  eggs 

1  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  warm  water 

6  to  7  c.  sifted  plain  flour  to  make  proper  consistency  to  knead 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Knead.  Let  rise;  then  make  into  rolls  and  let  rise  again. 
Bake  at  400°  about  20  minutes.  Dough  will  keep  in  refrigerator  for  at 
least  a  week. 

Patie  Butt  Bonney 


Breads  &  Rolls  37 


Ice  box  rolls-granny's  recipe 

Vz  c.  sugar 

V3  c.  shortening 

2  eggs 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes 

1  c.  potato  water 

1  tsp.  salt 

71/2  c.  flour 

1  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  Vz  c.  warm  water 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening  well.  Add  egg,  potatoes,  yeast  and  2  cups 
flour;  beat  well.  Add  flour  and  potato  water  a  little  at  a  time.  Let  rise. 
Make  rolls  and  let  them  rise.  Bake  at  350°.  Dough  can  be  kept  in  icebox 
for  several  days  and  make  as  many  rolls  as  needed. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


OKIE'S  oyster  dressing 

3  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  salt 
Pepper 

4  tsp.  baking  powder 
3  eggs 

Ouster  liquid 

Gravy  drippings  from  turkey 

1  c.  oil 

V/z  c.  diced  celery 

1  o\t.  oysters,  drained 

Mix  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  baking  powder.  Add  eggs,  oyster  liquid  and 
gravy  drippings.  This  should  have  the  consistency  of  muffin  batter.  Have 
skillet  on  medium  heat,  using  Vz  cup  of  oil.  Add  batter  and  let  cook  about 
\0  minutes.  By  this  time,  the  batter  will  take  a  bread-like  consistency. 
Add  cereal  and  drained  oysters.  Mix  thoroughly  and  continue  cooking, 
stirring  often  to  keep  from  burning.  After  adding  the  above,  add  remaining 
oil.  Cooking  time  is  about  V/z  hours.  As  it  is  stirred  often,  it  will  take  on 
a  golden  brown  crispy  texture. 

Odle  Butt  Kellam 


36 


D 


ies,  irastiy 
Uesserts 


Maiy  Eliza  and  Aunt  Odie 


37497-jb-5p 


Helpful  Hints 


Egg  whites  need  to  be  at  room  temperature  for  greater  volume  when 
whipped.  Remember  this  when  making  meringue. 

When  preparing  several  batches  of  pie  dough,  roll  dough  out 
between  sheets  of  plastic  wrap.  Stack  the  discs  in  a  pizza  box,  and 
keep  the  box  in  the  freezer.  Next  time  you're  making  pie,  pull  out  the 
required  crusts. 

Place  your  pie  plate  on  a  cake  stand  when  placing  the  pie  dough  in 
it  and  fluting  the  edges.  The  cake  stand  will  make  it  easier  to  turn 
the  pie  plate,  and  you  won't  have  to  stoop  over. 

Many  kitchen  utensils  can  be  used  to  make  decorative  pie  edges. 
For  a  scalloped  edge,  use  a  spoon.  Crosshatched  and  herringbone 
patterns  are  achieved  with  a  fork.  For  a  sharply  pointed  effect,  use 
a  can  opener  to  cut  out  points  around  the  rim. 

Dipping  strawberries  in  chocolate?  Stick  toothpicks  into  the  stem 
end  of  the  berry.  Coat  the  berries  with  chocolate,  shaking  off  any 
excess.  Turn  the  berries  upside  down  and  stick  the  toothpick  into  a 
block  of  styrofoam  until  the  chocolate  is  set.  The  finished  berries  will 
have  chocolate  with  no  flat  spots.  Another  easy  solution  is  to  place 
dipped  berries  dipped-side  up  in  the  holes  of  an  egg  carton. 

Keep  strawberries  fresh  for  up  to  ten  days  by  refrigerating  them 
(unwashed)  in  an  airtight  container  between  layers  of  paper  towels. 

When  grating  citrus  peel,  bits  of  peel  are  often  stuck  in  the  holes  of 
the  grater.  Rather  than  waste  the  peel,  you  can  easily  brush  it  off  by 
using  a  clean  toothbrush. 

To  core  a  pear,  slice  the  pear  in  half  lengthwise.  Use  a  melon  bailer 
to  cut  out  the  central  core,  using  a  circular  motion.  Draw  the  melon 
bailer  to  the  top  of  the  pear,  removing  the  interior  stem  as  you  go. 

When  cutting  up  dried  fruit,  it  sometimes  sticks  to  the  blade  of  the 
knife.  To  prevent  this  problem,  coat  the  blade  of  your  knife  with  a  thin 
film  of  vegetable  spray  before  cutting. 

Cutting  dessert  bars  is  easier  if  you  score  the  bars  as  soon  as  the 
pan  comes  out  of  the  oven.  When  the  bars  cool,  cut  along  the 
scored  lines. 

When  cutting  butter  into  flour  for  pastry  dough,  the  process  is  made 
easier  if  you  cut  the  butter  into  small  pieces  before  adding  it  to  the  flour. 


37497-jb-5p 


Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts 

Chocolate  meringue  pie-granny 

RECIPE 

2  c.  milk 

2  sq.  baking  chocolate 

1  c.  sugar 

2  heaping  T.  cornstarch 
2  eggs,  separated 

1  tsp.  vanilla 
1  T.  butter 
Baked  pie  shell 

In  top  of  double  boiler,  cook  milk,  chocolate  and  sugar  until  hot,  stirring 
constantly.  When  chocolate  is  melted,  mix  egg  yolks  and  cornstarch  with 
enough  water  to  make  a  paste  and  add  to  hot  mixture.  Stir  until  it  comes 
to  a  boil  and  is  smooth.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  vanilla  and  butter. 
Pour  into  baked  pie  shell  and  use  egg  whites  for  meringue,  drown  in 
300°  oven. 

Odle  Butt  Kellam 


Easy  cheese  cake  pie 

1  (8  oz.)  cream  cheese,  softened 

1/2  c.  sour  cream 

Vz  c.  sugar 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  (4  oz.)  Cool  Whip 

1  Qraham  cracker  cruet 

1  can  cherry  pie  filling 

Beat  cheese  until  smooth.  Gradually  beat  in  sugar.  Blend  in  sour  cream 
and  vanilla.  Fold  in  whipped  topping.  Put  in  graham  cracker  cruet  and 
chill  at  least  3  hours.  Top  with  cherry  pie  filling. 

Louise  Butt  Pulley 


Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts  39 


Pineapple  icebox  pie 

1  lg.  (20-oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple 
1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk 
1A  c.  lemon  juice 
1  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  lg.  (6-oz.)  ctn.  Cool  Whip 

2  graham  cracker  pie  crusts 

f3ake  pie  crusts  about  3  minutes.  Mix  ingredients  together  and  put  in 
graham  cracker  cruet.  Sprinkle  with  additional  graham  cracker  crumbs 
if  desired,  Refrigerate. 

Pattie  Butt  E3onney 


Hawaiian  pie 

1  lg.  can  crushed  pineapple  (do  not  drain) 

1  c.  sugar 
4  T.  flour 

2  bananas,  sliced 

V2  c.  chopped  nuts  (walnuts) 
1  c.  flaked  coconut 

1  lg.  ctn.  prepared  whipped  topping 

2  pie  shells,  baked 

Mix  pineapple,  sugar  and  flour.  Cook  until  thick.  Cool.  Slice  bananas  into 
pie  shells.  Sprinkle  nuts  over  bananas.  Add  coconut  to  pineapple  mixture 
and  let  cool.  Four  over  nuts  and  bananas.  Cover  with  prepared  whipped 
topping.  Refrigerate. 

Mary  Robinson  Shafer  Meeks 


40 


Coconut  custard  pie 

6  eggs 
21A  c.  sugar 

1  qt.  milk,  plain  or  evaporated 
Pinch  salt 

2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  ctn.  coconut 


Put  in  uncooked  pie  crust.  Bake  at  425°  for  10  minutes  and  350°  for 
30  minutes.  Makes  2  pies. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  drown 


Sweet  potato  pie 

4  eggs 

4  c.  cooked,  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

11/2  c.  white  sugar 

1/2  c.  brown  sugar 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  c.  evaporated  milk 
2  unbaked  pie  shells 

Heat  oven  to  400°.  Beat  eggs  and  mix  in  sweet  potatoes,  both  sugars, 
cinnamon,  salt,  vanilla  and  evaporated  milk.  Pour  into  pie  shells.  Bake  15 
minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  350°  and  bake  about  40  minutes  or  until 
knife  inserted  comes  out  clean.  Serve  topped  with  whipped  cream  or 
whipped  topping. 

Susan  drown  ?\anaqan 


Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts  41 


Southern  strawberry  pie 

3A  c.  sugar 
2  T.  cornstarch 

2  T.  light  corn  syrup 
1  c.  water 

3  T.  strawberry  gelatin 

1  ert.  fresh  strawberries 
1  (9-in.)  baked  pie  shell 

Combine  sugar,  cornstarch,  corn  syrup  and  water  in  a  saucepan;  bring 
to  boil.  Cook  stirring  constantly  until  clear  and  thickened.  Add  gelatin, 
stirring  until  dissolved.  Cool.  Place  strawberries  in  pie  shell;  pour  in  gelatin 
mixture.  Chill  until  firm;  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


5TRAW3ERRY  PIE 

1  (9-in.)  pie  shell,  cooked  (Mix  2  T.  sugar  and  1  tsp.  water.  Brush  pie 
shell,  put  bake  in  oven  and  heat.  Fill  with  fresh  strawberries,  about 
2  c.) 

3  T.  cornstarch 

V/z  c.  sugar 

1/2  c.  water 

1  c.  strawberries 

Mix  well.  Cook  until  thick,  remove  from  stove  and  beat.  Pour  over  fresh 
berries.  Top  with  whipped  cream. 

Od\e  Butt  Kellam 


42 


Peach  pie 

6  med.  peaches,  peeled  and  halved 

Va  c.  butter 

3A  c.  sugar 

1/3  c.  flour 

4  T.  water 

Cinnamon 

9-in.  pie  shell 

Mix  butter,  sugar  and  flour.  Sprinkle  half  on  pie  crust.  Place  peaches  cut 
side  down  on  crust.  Sprinkle  with  spices  and  water,  then  the  remainder 
of  sugar  mixture.  Bake  10  minutes  at  400°.  Reduce  to  350°  for  35 
minutes.  Makes  large  pie. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Apple  cobbler 

1  stick  margarine 

1  c.  sugar 

2/3  c.  milk 

1  c.  flour 

3  tsp.  baking  powder 

Vanilla,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 

Nuts 

3  c.  apples  (5  or  6) 

Melt  margarine  in  pan.  Mix  flour,  sugar,  milk  and  baking  powder.  Pour  over 
melted  butter  then  pour  in  the  nuts  and  apples.  Don't  mix.  Bake  at  350° 
about  45  minutes. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


Deep  pish  apple  crisp 

Prepare  firm  tart  apples  by  peeling  and  slicing  like  for  a  regular  pie. 
Arrange  in  de&p  dish  enough  to  fill  dish.  Beat  2  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar. 
Add  2  tablespoons  melted  margarine  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  well. 
Fold  in  1  cup  plain  flour.  Mix  well.  Spread  mixture  over  apples  and  bake 
at  350°  until  apples  are  done  and  top  Is  crisp  {about  45  minutes).  Serve 
with  ice  cream  or  Cool  Whip. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


3749701  Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts  43 


Official  cobbler  of  the  Virginia  peach 
festival 

6  T.  butter  or  margarine 

2  c.  self-rising  flour 

2  c.  sugar 

172  c.  milk 

8>  c.  peaches,  peeled  and  chopped 

Melt  butter  and  pour  into  a  metal  9  x  13-inch  pan.  Mix  flour,  sugar  and 
milk  and  pour  over  melted  butter.  Pour  peaches  on  top  of  batter.  DO 
NOT  STIR.  Bake  at  450°  for  the  first  30  minutes.  Then  turn  the  tempera- 
ture down  to  375°  and  bake  until  golden  brown.  (Use  a  toothpick  or  cake 
teeter  to  check  doneness.  If  you  like  your  cobbler  well  done,  make  sure 
the  toothpick  is  clean  when  removed  from  the  crust.  If  you  like  a  moist 
cobbler,  take  it  out  earlier.)  Watch  carefully  not  to  overcook  the  top  of 
crust.  You  may  need  to  put  aluminum  foil  over  cobbler  so  crust  won't 
get  too  brown. 

Note:  This  recipe  can  be  altered  to  any  fruit  by  eliminating  the  peaches 
and  adding  2  cans  of  any  pie  filling. 

Larry  &  Penny  Pulley 


Fruit  cobbler 

1  stick  butter 

1  c.  milk 

1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  self-rising  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  (No.  2)  can  fruit  or  2  c.  fresh  peaches 

Melt  butter  in  pan.  Make  a  dough  with  the  milk,  sugar,  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Stir  the  dough  in  the  butter,  then  pour  the  fruit  on  top.  Bake 
50  minutes  at  350°. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


44 


Pecan  sars 

1  stick  butter 

1  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs 

1  (6-oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

1  c.  nuts 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk 

Use  3  x  10-inch  pan.  Sprinkle  crumbs  over  melted  butter  and  let  stand 
until  absorbed.  Sprinkle  chocolate  oyer  next.  Then  sprinkle  nuts.  Pour  can 
of  milk  over  all,  spreading  without  pressing  down.  Bake  at  350°  for  30 
minutes.  Turn  off  oven  and  leave  in  oven  10  minutes  more.  Cool  and  cut 
In  squares. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


Lemon  fluff 

Vanilla  wafer  crumbs 
1  pkg.  lemon  Jello 
Juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons 
3  T.  sugar 

Dissolve  Jello  in  3A  cup  water.  Add  juice  and  rind  of  lemons  and  sugar. 
Let  cool.  Chill  tall  can  of  Pet  milk  in  refrigerator  tray  and  whip.  Fold  In 
Jello  mixture.  Line  pan  with  vanilla  wafer  crumbs  and  top  with  same.  Chill 
in  refrigerator. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  3rown 


Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts  45 


Lemon  chess  squares 

Vz  c.  butter  or  margarine,  softened 

1  c.  flour 

Va  c.  confectioners'  sugar 

Cream  butter,  add  flour  and  sugar.  Mix  well.  Pat  in  greased  9  x  SHnch 
pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  2.0  minutes. 

Topping: 

2  eggs 

1  c.  sugar 

2  T.  flour 

72  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  T.  lemon  juice 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Beat  together.  Pour  over  baked  bottom  while  still  warm.  Bake  at 
325°  for  25  minutes.  Cool  on  rack.  Sprinkle  with  confectioners' 
sugar.  Cut  into  squares. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Lemon  curd 

Juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons 
3A  stick  margarine  or  butter 
3  eggs,  well  beaten 
1  c.  sugar 

Mix  above  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler  until  thickened.  Straining  helps 
take  out  bits  of  egg,  if  necessary.  Thickens  more  when  cool.  Refrigerate. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


46 


Pineapple  angel  dessert 

1  Ig.  angel  food  cake 

1  (20-oz.)  can  undra'med  crushed  pineapple 

1  T.  lemon  juice 

2  eggs 

1A  c.  butter  or  o\eo 

3A  c.  sugar 

2  T.  cornstarch 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  c.  nuts,  opt. 

1/2  c.  Angel  Flake  coconut 

1  (9-oz.)  ctn.  Cool  Whip 

Break  cake  into  small  pieces  and  put  aside.  Heat  pineapple  and  lemon 
juice  to  boiling.  Beat  eggs;  add  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Pour  into  hot 
pineapple  and  bring  to  boll.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  butter,  nuts  and 
vanilla.  In  9  x  13-inch  pan,  layer  Vz  cake,  then  ]/z  filling  and  repeat.  Chill 
in  refrigerator.  When  cold,  epread  with  Cool  Whip  and  sprinkle  with  coconut. 
Refrigerate.  Cut  Into  squares  to  serve. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Baked  rice  custard 

2  c.  milk 

3  eggs 

V2  c.  sugar 
1  c.  cooked  rice 
1A  c.  raisins 
1  tsp.  vanilla 
1A  tsp.  nutmeg 

Scald  milk  over  medium  heat.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  mix  slowly. 
Add  scalded  milk,  cooked  rice,  vanilla  and  raisins.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg. 
Bake  at  325°  for  50  to  60  minutes  until  firm. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts  47 


Boiled  custard 


3  eggs 
1  c\t.  milk 
V2  c.  sugar 
Vanilla 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  coats  a  silver  epoon,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  vanilla. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  drown 


Chocolate  fondue 

1  (6>-oz.)  box  semi-sweet  chocolate 
V3  c.  half-and-half 
6  T.  brandy 

Good  with  fruit. 

Lee  &  Lou  Watson 


Recipe  Favorites 


46 


v^aJk' 


es9  cookies 


aiioy 


Front:  Louise,  Mary  &  Ruth   standing:  Odie, 
Ruby,  Willie  Mae,  Mama,  Eva,  Pattie  &  Brother 


37497-jb-6c 


Helpful  Hints 


•  Push  animal  shaped  cookie  cutters  lightly  into  icing  on  cakes  or  cup- 
cakes. Fill  depressed  outlines  with  chocolate  icing  or  decorating 
confections. 

•  Fill  flat  bottomed  ice  cream  cones  half  full  with  cake  batter  and  bake. 
Top  with  icing  and  decorating  confections. 

•  Marshmallows  can  be  used  for  candle  holders  on  cakes. 

•  To  keep  the  cake  plate  clean  while  frosting,  slide  6-inch  strips  of 
waxed  paper  under  each  side  of  the  cake.  Once  the  cake  is  frosted 
and  the  frosting  is  set,  pull  the  strips  away  leaving  a  clean  plate. 

•  When  decorating  a  cake  with  chocolate,  you  can  make  a  quick  dec- 
orating tube.  Put  chocolate  in  a  heat-safe  zipper-lock  plastic  bag. 
Immerse  in  simmering  water  until  the  chocolate  is  melted.  Snip  off 
the  tip  of  one  corner,  and  you  can  squeeze  the  chocolate  out  of  the 
bag. 

•  Professionally  decorated  cakes  have  a  silky,  molten  look.  To  get  that 
appearance,  frost  your  cake  as  usual,  then  use  a  hair  dryer  to  blow- 
dry  the  surface.  The  slight  melting  of  the  frosting  will  give  it  that  lus- 
trous appearance. 

•  To  ensure  that  you  have  equal  amounts  of  batter  in  each  pan  when 
making  a  layered  cake,  use  a  kitchen  scale  to  measure  the  weight. 

•  To  make  cookie  crumbs  for  your  recipes,  put  cookies  into  a  plastic 
bag  and  run  a  rolling  pin  back  and  forth  until  they  are  the  right  size. 

•  To  decorate  cookies  with  chocolate,  place  cookies  on  a  rack  over 
waxed  paper.  Dip  the  tines  of  a  fork  with  chocolate,  and  wave  the 
fork  gently  back  and  forth  making  wavy  lines. 

•  A  gadget  that  works  well  for  decorating  sugar  cookies  is  an  empty 
plastic  thread  spool.  Simply  press  the  spool  into  the  dough,  imprint- 
ing a  pretty  flower  design. 

•  Some  holiday  cookies  require  an  indent  on  top  to  fill  with  jam  or 
chocolate.  Use  the  rounded  end  of  a  honey  dipper  to  make  the  indent. 

•  When  a  recipe  calls  for  packed  brown  sugar,  fill  the  correct  size 
measuring  cup  with  the  sugar,  and  then  use  the  next  smaller  size 
cup  to  pack  the  brown  sugar  into  its  cup. 

37497-jb-6c 


Cakee,  Cookies  &  Candy 

4  LAYER  CAKE 

1  c.  butter 

2  c.  sugar 

3  c.  flour  (plain) 

4  eggs 

1  c.  milk 

2  level  tsp.  baking  powder 
Vanilla 

Salt 

Bake  at  350°  in  4  layers  for  15  to  20  minutes;  test  frequently. 
Chocolate  Cake  Filling: 

3  c.  sugar 

3  sq.  chocolate 
1  c.  Pet  milk 
V2  c.  Ka ro  syrup 
Dash  of  salt 
Vanilla 

Boil  until  can  pick  up  small  amount  in  cold  water.  Beat  all  the  time  while 
cooking  and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Cakee,  Cookies  &  Candy  49 


Apricot  nectar  cake 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  lemon  supreme  cake  mix 

3A  c.  Crisco  oil 

1  c.  apricot  nectar  juice 

4  eggs 

V2  c.  sugar 

Mix  all  ingredients;  beat  well.  Pour  in  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  and 
bake  at  350°  for  1  hour. 

Icing: 

1  c.  confectioners'  sugar 
Juice  of  1  lemon 

Drizzle  over  hot  cake. 

Pattie  Butt  Sonney 


Fresh  apple  cake 

1  c.  vegetable  oil 
3  eggs 

2  c.  sugar 

3  c.  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 
V2  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  chopped  nuts 

3  c.  apples,  diced 

3\end  first  4  ingredients  then  add  remaining  Ingredients.  Then  mix  In  3 
cups  fresh  diced  apples  and  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Cook  IV2  hours  at  325° 
in  a  greased  tube  pan.  You  may  add  1  cup  raisins  and  1  cup  Angel  Flake 
coconut  if  desired. 

Pattie  Butt  3onney 


50 


Banana  split  cake 

2  c.  graham  cracker  crumbs 

1  stick  margarine,  melted 

2  sticks  margarine,  softened 
2  c.  confectioners'  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

5  bananas,  sliced  lengthwise 

1  (No.  2)  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 
1  Ig.  ctn.  prepared  whipped  topping 
V2  c.  chopped  nuts 

6  maraschino  cherries,  chopped 

Combine  crumbs  and  1  stick  margarine.  Line  9  x  13-inch  pan  with  crust. 
Combine  2  sticks  margarine,  sugar,  eggs  and  vanilla.  Beat  at  high  speed 
not  less  than  15  minutes.  Spread  over  crust.  Slice  bananas  over  top  of 
this.  Spread  pineapple  over  bananas.  Spread  whipped  topping  over  top. 
Sprinkle  with  nuts  and  cherries.  Cover  and  refrigerate  for  24  hours. 

Pattie  Butt  P3onney 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  51 


Brandy  nut  cake 

1  lb.  butter 

4  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1A  tsp.  salt 

6  eggs,  separated 

1  lb.  (2  c.)  sugar 

2  lbs.  white  raisins 
73  c.  citron  slivered 
Vs  c.  orange  peel 

1  lb.  broken  pecans 

2 fa  c.  brandy 

V3  c.  black  molasses 

Set  V2  cup  flour  aside  to  dredge  fruit.  Cream  butter  and  flour  with  hands, 
adding  flour  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat  egg 
yolks  and  sugar  together  until  fluffy.  Seat  egg  whites  until  stiff  then  fold 
into  yolk  and  sugar  mixture.  Place  Vz  cup  flour  in  paper  bag  with  nuts, 
raisins,  citron  and  oranqe  peel.  Shake  well  until  covered  with  flour.  Add 
fruit  and  nuts  to  batter  then  add  brandy  and  molasses.  Pour  in  2  well- 
greased  tube  pans.  (I  use  3  loaf  pans.)  Bake  in  250°  oven  for  V/z  hours. 
Smaller  cakes  should  be  watched  after  first  hour.  (I  line  pans  with  paper.) 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Brown  sugar  pound  cake 

1  c.  butter 

Vz  c.  Crisco 

1  c.  white  sugar 

1  box  light  brown  sugar 

5  eggs 

1  c.  milk 

3  c.  cake  flour  (measure  first),  sifted 

V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  nuts 

Bake  at  325°  for  1V2  hours. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  drown 


52 


Chocolate  cherry  cake 

1  pkg.  fudge  cake  mix  (or  devil's  food) 
1  can  cherry  pie  filling 

1  tsp.  almond  extract 

2  eggs 

Preheat  oven  to  350°.  Grease  and  flour  15  x  10-inch  jelly-roll  pan  or  9 
x  13-inch  pan.  In  large  bowl,  combine  above  4  ingredients.  Stir  by  hand 
until  well  mixed.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes. 

Frosting: 

1  c.  sugar 

5  T.  butter  or  oleo 

1/3  c.  milk 

1  (6-oz.)  pkg.  semi-sweet  chocolate  pieces 

In  small  saucepan,  mix  sugar,  butter  and  milk.  Boil  1  minute,  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  chocolate  bits  until  smooth.  Pour 
over  cake. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


RUTH'S  C0C0NUT/50UR  CREAM  CAKE 

1  pkg.  butter-flavored  cake  mix 

2  c.  sugar 

1  (16  oz.)  sour  cream 

1  (12-oz.)  pkg.  frozen  coconut,  thawed 

V/z  c.  thawed  whipped  topping 

Prepare  cake  mix  according  to  directions.  Make  2  (8>-inch)  layers.  When 
cool,  split  to  make  4  layers.  Combine  sugar,  sour  cream  and  coconut, 
blending  well.  Chill.  Reserve  1  cup  sour  cream  mixture  for  frosting.  Spread 
remainder  between  layers  of  cake.  Combine  reserved  sour  cream  mixture 
and  whipped  topping;  blend  until  smooth.  Spread  on  top  and  sides  of 
cake.  Seal  cake  in  an  airtight  container  or  cover  with  Reynolds  Wrap  and 
refrigerate  for  2  to  3  days  before  serving.  Cake  is  very  moist. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


3/497  01  Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  53 


Coconut  slack  walnut  pound  cake 

2  c.  sugar 

1  c.  salad  oil 
4  eggs,  beaten 

3  c.  all-purpose  flour 
V2  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  soda 

V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  buttermilk 

1  c.  black  walnuts 

1  c.  flaked  coconut 

2  tsp.  coconut  extract 

Combine  sugar,  oil  and  eggs.  Beat  well.  Combine  dry  ingredients,  add  to 
sugar  mixture  alternately  with  buttermilk,  beating  well  after  each  addition. 
Stir  in  coconut,  nuts  and  flavoring.  Four  batter  into  a  well-greased  and 
floured  10-inch  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour  5  minutes.  Pour  hot 
coconut  syrup  over  hot  cake.  Allow  cake  to  remain  in  pan  4  hours  to 
absorb  syrup. 

Coconut  Syrup: 

1  c.  sugar 
V2  c.  water 

2  T.  butter 

1  tsp.  coconut  extract 

Combine  sugar,  water  and  butter  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil;  boil  5 
minutes.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  flavoring. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  &rown 


54 


Gingerbread 


1  c.  molasses 

1  c.  sugar 

2  eggs 

2/3  c.  shortening 

1  c.  sour  milk 

2  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  c'mnamon 

1  tsp.  ginger 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  boiling  water,  added  to  above  mixture 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  eggs  and  cream  well.  Add  spices  and 
mix.  Slowly  add  molasses.  Alternately  add  sour  milk  and  flour  to  mixture, 
beating  well  after  each  addition.  Add  boiling  water  and  stir.  Bake  at  350° 
for  40  minutes.  Serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  55 


Fruit  cake 

1  lb.  butter 

1  doz.  eggs 
V/z  lbs.  sugar 
IV2  lbs.  flour 

2  boxes  seeded  raisins 

2  boxes  seedless  raisins 

2  boxes  currants 

2  pkgs.  dates 

1  lb.  pineapple 

1  lb.  cherries 

V2  lb.  citron 

Watermelon  rind 

Figs  1  pt.  1  pkg. 

1  cjt.  E5  walnuts 

1  cjt.  E  walnuts 

1  e|t.  pecans 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  T.  vanilla 

1  T.  lemon 

Makes  15  to  16  pounds. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


56 


Manor  plain  cake 

V2  lbs.  butter 

2  c.  sugar 

6  eggs  (save  2  whites  or  use  4  whole  eggs) 

3  c.  cake  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  c.  milk 
Vanilla 

Cook  300°  for  1  hour  20  minutes.  Open  oven  door  after  1  hour. 

Icing: 

2  egg  whites 
IV2  c.  sugar 

5  T.  cold  water 
1  T.  Karo  syrup 
Vanilla 


Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  57 


Hummingbird  cake 

3  c.  all-purpose  flour 

2  c.  sugar 
1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  soda 

1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 

3  eggs,  beaten 
f/2  c.  salad  oil 

11/2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1  (6-oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple,  undrained 

2  c.  chopped  nuts 

2  c.  chopped  bananas 

Combine  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs  and  oil,  stir  dry  ingredients  until 
moistened.  DO  NOT  BEAT.  Stir  in  vanilla,  pineapple,  1  cup  nuts  and  bananas. 
Cook  in  3  layers  at  350°  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Cool  in  pans  10  minutes. 
Remove  from  pans  and  cool  completely.  Spread  frosting  between  layers 
and  on  top.  Sprinkle  1  cup  nuts  on  top. 

Cream  Cheese  Frosting: 

1  (8-oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 
V2  c.  butter  or  margarine 
1  (16  oz.)  10X  sugar 
1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Mix  softened  cream  cheese  and  butter,  add  other  ingredients  and  beat 
until  smooth. 

Pattie  Butt  Bonney 


55 


Pound  cake 

Vz  lb.  butter 

12/3  c.  sugar 

2  c.  cake  flour,  sifted 

5  eggs,  well  beaten 

'A  tsp.  baking  powder 

1/3  tsp.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

1/2  tsp.  almond  flavoring 

Cream  together  \?\Atter  and  sugar.  Add  other  ingredients  and  beat  well. 
Bake  in  well-greased  tube  pan  at  325°  for  1  hour  15  minutes. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


Orange  blossoms 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  yellow  cake  mix  (mix  according  to  directions  on 
box) 

Bake  in  small  muffin  tins  putting  1  teaepoon  batter  in  each  tin.  Bake  at 
350°  for  25  to  30  minutes.  While  hot,  dip  in  following  mixture: 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar 

Juice  and  rind  of  2  oranges 

Juice  of  2  lemons  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  59 


Prune  cake 

1  scant  c.  Wesson  oil 

2  c.  sugar 

3  eggs 

1  c.  sour  milk  (1  c.  sweet  milk  and  1  tsp.  vinegar;  let  stand  15  min.) 

2  c.  flour 

2  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  tsp.  ground  cloves 

2  tsp.  allspice 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tsp.  soda 

V2  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  cooked  prunes 

1  c.  broken  pecans 

Cream  oil  and  sugar.  Add  eggs.  Mix  well  and  add  milk  slowly.  Add  flour 
that  has  been  sifted  together  with  spices,  soda  and  salt.  Add  prunes 
and  nuts.  Line  tube  pan  at  bottom.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour  20  minutes. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Pineapple  upside  down  cake 

1/2  c.  butter,  melted  in  frying  pan 

1  c.  brown  sugar 

1  Ig.  can  crushed  pineapple,  reserve  juice 

Cook  together  5  minutes. 

Cake: 

3  egg  yolks 

1  c.  white  sugar 

5  T.  pineapple  juice 

1  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

To  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  sugar  and  pineapple  juice.  Add  flour, 
baking  powder  and  fold  in  3  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  cake  mixture 
over  pineapple  mixture  and  bake  at  475°  for  45  minutes. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


60 


Pump  cake 

2  c.  fruit 

1  (20  oz.)  crushed  pineapple 

1  box  yellow  or  white  cake  mix 

1  c.  chopped  pecans 

2  sticks  margarine,  melted 

Put  in  this  order  in  9  x  13-inch  pan.  E3ake  at  375°  for  45  minutes. 

Susan  E>rown  Flanagan 


Yummy  chocolate  syrup  cake 

V2  c.  margarine 

1  c.  sugar 

4  eggs 

1  c.  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  (1-lb.)  can  chocolate  syrup 

Cream  margarine  with  sugar;  beat  in  eggs.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  vanilla  and  syrup.  Turn 
Into  greased,  floured  9  x  13-inch  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  30  minutes.  Let 
cool  on  rack  while  preparing  \c\nq.  Four  hot  Icing  over  cake  and  let  cool 
completely.  Cut  in  squares. 

Icing: 

1  c.  sugar 

Vz>  c.  evaporated  milk 

V2  c.  butter 

V2  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips 

Place  sugar,  milk  and  butter  in  saucepan  and  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  chocolate  chips  and  blend  until  melted. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  61 


Waldorf  astoria  cake 

Vz  c.  butter 

2  c.  white  sugar 

4  s^.  chocolate,  melted 

2  eggs,  beaten 

2  c.  flour 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  tsp.  salt 

11/2  c.  milk 

2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  c.  pecans 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  chocolate  and  eggs.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt;  add  alternately  with  milk  and  vanilla.  Add  pecane.  Bake  in  tube 
pan  at  350°  for  45  minutes. 

Icing: 

V2  c.  butter 

2  sq.  chocolate 
1  egg 

Pinch  salt 

1  c.  nuts 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

V/2  c.  powdered  sugar 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate.  Add  beaten  egg,  salt,  vanilla,  lemon  juice  and 
sugar.  Mix  in  nuts  or  sprinkle  on  top. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


62 


Strawberry  angel  food  cake 

1  Ig.  angel  food  cake 

2  (3-oz.)  pkgs.  strawberry  Jello 
2  c.  hot  water 

2  pkgs.  frozen  strawberries,  sliced 
Whipped  topping 

Dissolve  Jello  in  hot  water,  add  sliced  strawberries.  Mix  with  cake  that 
has  been  broken  in  small  pieces,  spoon  into  bundt  pan  or  spring-form  pan 
and  chill  3  to  4  hours  or  overnight.  Dip  in  hot  water  and  invert  on  cake 
plate.  Cover  top  and  sides  with  whipped  topping  or  serve  with  ice  cream. 

Ruth  Butt  Watson 


Almond  cookies 

2/3  c.  sugar 

1  lb.  butter 

4  c.  sifted  flour 

Vz  lb.  unblanched  almonds,  ground 

Mix  well  with  fingers.  Leave  in  refrigerator  several  hours.  Remove  and  allow 
dough  to  reach  room  temperature.  Roll  flat  and  cut  with  cookie  cutter. 
Bake  on  ungreased  sheet  at  300°  until  brown.  Sprinkle  with  confectioners' 
sugar  while  warm. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Chocolate  cookies 

3A  stick  butter 

2  (6-oz.)  pkgs.  semi-sweet  chocolate  chips 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  condensed  milk 

1  c.  chopped  pecans 

1  c.  unsifted  flour 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Drop  on 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350°  for  10  minutes.  Yields  30  cookies. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  63 


Brown  sugar  chews 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar 
4  eggs 

2  c.  3\sc\u\ck 
2  tsp.  vanilla 
1  c.  pecans 

Bake  in  9  x  13-inch  greased  pan  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 

Verna  Brown  Leonard 


Chocolate  'n  oat  sars 

1  c.  unsifted  flour 

1  c.  quick  cooking  oats 

3/4  c.  firmly  packed  light  brown  sugar 

V2  c.  butter,  softened 

1  (14-oz.)  can  Eagle  Brand  sweetened  condensed  milk  (NOT 

evaporated  milk) 
1  c.  chopped  nuts 
1  (6-oz.)  pkg.  (1  c.)  Nestle  Toll  House  semi-sweet  morsels 

Preheat  oven  to  350°  (325°  for  glass);  in  bowl,  combine  flour,  oats  brown 
sugar  and  butter.  Mix  well.  Reserving  V2  cup,  press  remaining  oat  mixture 
on  bottom  of  9  x  13-inch  baking  pan.  Bake  10  minutes.  Pour  sweetened 
condensed  milk  evenly  over  crust.  Sprinkle  with  nuts  and  Nestle  Toll  House 
morsels.  Top  with  remaining  oat  mixture;  press  down.  Bake  25  to  30 
minutes  or  until  lightly  browned.  Cool.  Store  covered  at  room  temperature. 

Larry  &  Penny  Pulley 


Cookie  ears 

Line  a  greased  cookie  sheet  with  saltine  crackers.  In  a  pan,  melt  2  sticks 
of  butter  and  add  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  boil  3  minutes.  Pour  butter 
mixture  over  crackers.  Bake  at  400°  for  5  minutes.  Sprinkle  immediately 
upon  removing  the  pan  from  the  oven  with  1  cup  semi-sweet  chocolate 
chips  and  1  cup  butterscotch  chips.  Allow  to  soften,  then  epread  like 
icing.  Freeze.  Break  a\part.  Store  in  freezer. 

Larry  &  Penny  Pulley 


64 


Ice  box  cookies 

1  lb.  margarine,  softened 

21/2  c.  sugar 

3  eggs,  beaten 

1  T.  light  corn  syrup 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

51/2  c.  flour 

1  c.  raisins 

1  c.  broken  nuts 

Cream  margarine  and  sugar;  add  eggs,  syrup  and  vanilla.  Add  salt,  soda, 
powder  and  1  cup  flour.  Then  add  remainder  of  flour  with  raisins  and  nuts. 
Knead  with  hands  until  smooth.  Form  into  rolls,  roll  in  waxed  paper  and 
store  in  refrigerator  overnight.  When  ready  to  bake,  slice  thin  knife.  Bake 
at  375°  for  10  to  15  minutes. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Family  tea  cookies 

1  c.  (2  sticks)  butter,  room  temperature 
V2  c.  confectioners'  sugar 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

2  c.  flour 

1  c.  chopped  pecans 

Preheat  oven  to  325°.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  vanilla,  flour  and 
nuts.  Poll  into  balls.  Chill.  Bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet  20  minutes 
or  until  slightly  browned.  While  still  warm,  roll  in  confectioners'  sugar. 
Yield:  4  to  5  dozen. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  65 


White  chocolate  cookies 

1  c.  white  chocolate,  melt  in  double  boiler 
Add: 

1  c.  unsalted  peanuts 

2  c.  sm.  stick  pretzels,  broken  in  pieces 

Drop  by  ice  tea  spoon  on  waxed  paper.  When  cold,  put  in  tin. 

Odie  Butt  Kellam 


Snickerdoodles 

1  c.  soft  shortening 
V/2  c.  sugar 

2  eggs 

23A  c.  sifted  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  c\x\r\arr\or\ 
2  T.  sugar 

Blend  together  shortening,  sugar  and  eggs.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients 
and  add  to  created  mixture.  Roll  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts.  Roll  balls 
in  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixture.  Place  balls  2  inches  apart  on  ungreased 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  in  preheated  400°  oven  for  b  to  10  minutes.  Remove 
to  cool. 

Ruby  Butt  Fentress 


66 


L0UI5EJ5  3R0WNIES 

2  c.  flour 
2  c.  sugar 
1  stick  butter 
1/2  c.  shortening 
4  T.  cream 
4  T.  cocoa 

1  c.  water 

1/2  c.  buttermilk 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
1  tsp.  soda 

Sift  flour  and  sugar.  Set  aside.  Mix  in  saucepan  butter,  shortening,  cream, 
cocoa  and  water.  Bring  to  boil  and  mix  well.  Combine  with  sugar-flour 
mixture.  Add  buttermilk,  eggs,  soda,  cinnamon  and  vanilla.  Four  Into 
qreaeed  13  x  12  x  1-inch  pan.  Bake  at  400°  for  20  minutes  or  375°  for 
15  minutes. 

Icing: 

1  stick  margarine 

4  T.  cocoa 

6  T.  milk 

1  box  confectioners'  sugar 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  nut  meats 

Mix  margarine,  cocoa  and  milk.  Bring  to  boil;  remove  from  heat  and  add 
sugar,  vanilla,  salt  and  nuts.  Spread  over  hot  brownies. 

rlaqan  Pulley 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  67 


Bourdon  jets 

3  lbs.  10X  sugar 

1A  stick  butter 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  c.  bourbon 

1  c.  pecan  halves 

1  box  unsweetened  chocolate  (8>  squares) 

Vz  cake  paraffin  wax 

Mix  first  4  ingredients  with  hands;  should  be  very  stiff.  Add  nuts  last. 
Roll  into  balls  and  place  on  waxed  paper.  Let  stand  in  cool  place  or 
refrigerate.  They  should  be  very  firm  before  you  dip  them.  Mix  chocolate 
and  paraffin  wax  In  double  boiler.  Stir  until  melted.  Dip  bourbon  balls 
in  hot  chocolate;  let  drain  on  waxed  paper.  Keep  In  a  very  cool  place 
or  refrigerate. 

Odle  Butt  Kellam 


Chocolate  mint  party  squares 

1  pkg.  reg.-size  brownie  mix 
2nd  layer: 

2  c.  confectioners'  sugar 
2  T.  creme  de  menthe 

Vz  c.  o\eo  or  butter 

3rd  layer: 

1  c.  semi-sweet  chocolate  bits 
6  T.  oleo  or  butter 

Mix  brownies  according  to  package  instructions.  Spread  in  9  x  13-inch 
pan.  Bake  in  preheated  oven  at  350°  for  15  minutes.  Cool.  Beat  together 
confectioners'  sugar,  liqueur  and  V2  cup  oleo.  Spread  like  icing  over  brown- 
ies; chill  thoroughly.  In  double  boiler,  melt  chocolate  bits  with  6  tablespoons 
oleo.  Spread  over  icing  layer.  Refrigerate  until  set.  Cut  in  IWinch  squares. 
Can  be  frozen. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


68 


Chocolate  seafoam 


Vz  cake  chocolate 

1  c.  water 

V/z  lbs.  brown  sugar 

1  egg  white,  beaten 

1/2  c.  nuts 

Vanilla 

Dissolve  chocolate  in  water  and  brown  sugar.  Cook  until  it  forme  a  rather 
hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Four  gradually  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  egg. 
Add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  drop  on  qreaeed  paper. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Divinity  candy 

2  c.  sugar 

Vz  c.  Karo  syrup 

Vz  c.  water 

White  of  1  egg 

Va  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

1  T.  vanilla 

E3oil  sugar,  syrup,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  until  it  spins  a  long  thread. 
Kemove  from  fire,  cool  1  minute  and  pour  slowly  over  stiffly  beaten  egg 
white  beating  constantly;  add  vanilla.  F3eat  to  consistency  to  drop. 

Eva  F3utt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy  69 


Fudge 

3  c.  sugar 

3  e<\.  chocolate 

Melt  together  over  medium  heat. 

V2  c.  dark  Karo 

1  c.  Pet  milk 

2  lumps  butter 
2/z>  c.  nuts 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Boil  chocolate,  sugar,  Karo  and  milk  4  or  5  minutes  or  until  soft-ball 
stage.  Remove  from  heat.  Put  pan  in  cold  water.  Add  butter  and  vanilla. 
Beat  until  spreading  consistency;  adding  nuts  last. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Pull  candy 

3  c.  sugar 
1  c.  vinegar 
Pinch  cream  of  tartar 

Cook  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water  (290°).  Get  a  partner  and 
pull  back  and  forth  until  stiff.  Cut  in  pieces. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Meringue  kisses 

1  c.  sugar,  sifted 

2  egg  whites  plus  Vs  tsp.  salt 

Whip  until  stiff.  Add  sugar  very  slowly  whipping  constantly;  add  V2  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  Vz  teaspoon  lemon  rind.  Fold  in  1  cup  chopped  pecans. 
Drop  by  teaspoon  on  waxed  paper.  Cook  at  225°  for  20  minutes.  Remove 
while  hot. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


70 


■aiunimg,  irreserviii^ 
Tkis  <&  TTiaf 


«  '\P  £L 


Mary  Eliza  Butt 


37497-jb-7t 


Helpful  Hints 


•  To  refinish  antiques  or  revitalize  wood,  use  equal  parts  of  linseed  oil, 
white  vinegar  and  turpentine.  Rub  into  the  furniture  or  wood  with  a 
soft  cloth  and  lots  of  elbow  grease. 

•  To  stop  the  ants  in  your  pantry,  seal  off  cracks  where  they  are  enter- 
ing with  putty  or  petroleum  jelly.  Also,  try  sprinkling  red  pepper  on 
floors  and  counter  tops. 

•  To  fix  sticking  sliding  doors,  windows  and  drawers,  rub  wax  along 
their  tracks. 

•  To  make  a  simple  polish  for  copper  bottom  cookware,  mix  equal 
parts  of  flour  and  salt  with  vinegar  to  create  a  paste.  Store  the  paste 
in  the  refrigerator. 

•  Applying  baking  soda  on  a  damp  sponge  will  remove  starch  deposits 
from  an  iron.  Make  sure  the  iron  is  cold  and  unplugged. 

•  Remove  stale  odors  in  the  wash  by  adding  baking  soda. 

•  To  clean  Teflon™,  combine  1  cup  water,  2  tablespoons  baking  soda 
and  1/2  cup  liquid  bleach.  Boil  in  stained  pan  for  5  to  10  minutes  or 
until  the  stain  disappears.  Wash,  rinse,  dry  and  condition  with  oil 
before  using  the  pan  again. 

•  Corning  Ware  can  be  cleaned  by  filling  it  with  water  and  dropping  in 
two  denture  cleaning  tablets.   Let  stand  for  30  to  45  minutes. 

•  A  little  instant  coffee  will  work  wonders  on  your  wood  furniture.  Just 
make  a  thick  paste  from  instant  coffee  and  a  little  water,  and  rub  it 
into  the  nicks  and  scratches  on  your  dark  wood  furniture.  You'll  be 
amazed  at  how  new  and  beautiful  those  pieces  will  look. 

•  For  a  clogged  shower  head,  boil  it  for  15  minutes  in  a  mixture  of  Vi 
cup  vinegar  and  1  quart  water. 

•  For  a  spicy  aroma,  toss  dried  orange  or  lemon  rinds  into  the  fire- 
place. 

•  Tin  coffee  cans  make  excellent  freezer  containers  for  cookies. 

•  Add  raw  rice  to  the  salt  shaker  to  keep  the  salt  free-flowing. 

•  Ice  cubes  will  help  sharpen  garbage  disposal  blades. 

37497-jb-7t 


Canning,  Preserving,  This  &  That 

Strawberry  jam 

4  c.  crushed  berries 
4  c.  sugar 

Boil  rapidly  for  20  minutes.  Add  1  tablespoon  vinegar;  boil  5  minutes 
longer.  Put  in  jars  and  seal. 

Eva  Butt  Simmons  "Auntie" 


Strawberry  preserves 

2  crt.  berries,  capped  and  washed 

Scald  in  boiling  water  and  leave  in  2  minutes.  Drain  berries  in  colander 
for  5  minutes.  Pour  berries  in  large  pot  and  add  4  cups  sugar.  Bring  to 
hard  boil  and  boil  for  2  to  3  minutes  (some  berries  have  more  juice  than 
others).  Pull  pan  aside  and  add  2  more  cups  of  sugar.  Boil  hard  for  5  or 
7  minutes  depending  on  stiffness  you  like.  Skin  off  foam  while  boiling-,  pour 
Into  a  shallow  pan  and  let  stand  overnight.  Put  up  cold  in  cold  jars  and 
seal  with  wax. 

Willie  Mae  Butt  Brown 


Canning,  Preserving,  This  &  That  71 


Bread  and  gutter  pickles 

4  art.  thinly  sliced  unpeeled  cucumbers  {about  16) 
6  or  8>  onions,  thinly  sliced  {about  6  c.) 

2  green  peppere,  thinly  sliced  (about  12/3  c.) 

3  cloves  garlic 
1/3  c.  salt 

5  c.  sugar 
3  c.  vinegar 

2  T.  mustard  seed 
IV2  tsp.  turmeric 
IV2  tsp.  celery  seed 

Combine  cucumbers,  onions,  green  pepper  and  garlic.  Add  salt,  cover  with 
cracked  ice  and  mix  thoroughly.  Let  stand  3  hours.  Drain  well;  remove 
garlic.  Combine  sugar,  vinegar,  mustard  seed,  turmeric  and  celery  seed. 
Heat  slowly  and  stir  in  dissolved  sugar.  Pour  over  cucumber  mixture  and 
heat  just  to  boiling.  Fill  hot  sterilized  jars  to  within  V2  inch  of  top;  tighten 
lids.  Makes  &  pints.  Ready  to  eat  after  4  or  5  days. 

Verna  Brown  Leonard 


Sweet  pickles 

7  lbs.  cucumbers 

1  c.  pickling  lime 

5  lbs.  sugar 

1  qt.  vinegar 

V2  pkg.  pickling  spices  (2-oz.  jar) 

1st  day:  Wash  and  slice  cucumbers.  Cover  and  soak  in  lime  water  for  24 
hours.  2nd  say:  Drain.  Rinse  in  cold  water.  Drain  well.  Soak  in  vinegar, 
sugar  and  spices  for  12  to  15  hours.  3rd  day:  Cook  slowly  for  20  minutes 
after  starting  to  boil.  Seal  in  jars.  (I  put  spices  in  cheesecloth.) 

Mary  Anne  3rown  Simmons 


72 


Watermelon  pickles 

1  Ig.  watermelon 

C\ear\  and  peel  rind  of  1  large  watermelon  (approximately  1S>  to  20  cups 
rind).  Cut  in  strips  or  bite-size  pieces.  Rinse,  then  cover  with  water  and 
parboil  until  tender  when  pierced  with  fork.  Drain.  Bring  to  boil: 

7  c.  sugar 

2  c.  white  vinegar 
1A  tsp.  oil  or  cloves 

1/2  tsp.  oil  of  cinnamon 

Pour  over  rind.  Let  stand  12  hours.  First  morning:  Drain  off  syrup,  heat 
and  pour  over  rind.  Second  morning:  Repeat  process.  Third  morning: 

Heat  rind  and  syrup  together  and  put  In  jars. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 


Canning,  Preserving,  This  &  That  73 


Granny's  home  freezer  ice  cream 

5  c.  sugar 

Dash  salt 

3  (\t.  fresh  whole  milk 

9  to  10  fresh  eggs 

3  heaping  T.  cornstarch 

3  Ig.  cans  evaporated  milk 

2  T.  pure  vanilla  extract 

Over  medium  to  medium-high  heat,  set  up  double  boiler  by  placing  a  large 
pot  into  another  pot  containing  water.  Remove  the  smaller  pot  and  into 
it  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Stir  mixture  to  dissolve  sugar.  Return 
to  double  boiler  and  stir  occasionally.  Beat  eggs  and  cornstarch  together. 

Hint:  Use  blender  on  "stir"  cycle.  Add  egg  mixture  to  the  warm  milk 
mixture,  stirring  continuously.  Stir  mixture  over  heat  occasionally  until 
slightly  thickened.  This  should  take  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Remove  from 
heat  and  strain  mixture  through  a  sieve  into  the  freezer  can.  Add  canned 
evaporated  milk  to  fill  to  not  more  than  1  inch  from  top  of  the  can.  Let 
the  mixture  cool.  This  can  be  hastened  in  the  refrigerator.  When  cooled, 
add  vanilla. 

Variations:  Chocolate:  Delete  1  can  of  milk  and  the  vanilla.  Add  1  can 
chocolate  syrup.  You  may  desire  to  add  vanilla  anyway,  if  so  only  1 
tablespoon.  Fruit:  Delete  2  cans  of  milk  and  vanilla.  Add  smashed,  sweet- 
ened fruit  and  1  drop  of  almond  extract. 

Mary  Anne  Drown  Simmons 


74 


Vanilla  ice  cream 

2  o\t.  milk 

2  c.  sugar 
Pash  salt 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  Milk 
V2  pt.  whipping  cream 

3  T.  flour 

6  eggs,  beaten 
3  T.  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  then  add  a  little  milk  to  make  a  paste.  Scald 
the  rest  of  the  milk  then  add  paste  mixture.  Let  cook  about  5  minutes, 
stirring  continually.  Mix  a  little  hot  mixture  with  beaten  eggs  and  return 
to  stove.  Cook  until  it  coats  a  spoon.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to 
use,  add  vanilla,  Eagle  3rand  milk  and  whipped  cream.  Makes  4  to  5  quarts. 

Mary  Butt  Shafer 

Recipe  favorites 


Canning,  Preserving,  This  &  That  75 


Recipe  Favorites 


76 


INDEX  OF  RECIPES 


Appetizers  &  Beverages 


Main  Dishes  &  Casseroles 


ARTICHOKE  SPREAD 

1 

CHEESE  BALL 

1 

CLAM  DIP 

1 

CRANBERRY  PUNCH 

4 

CURRY  DIP 

2 

DRIED  BEEF  CANAPES 

3 

HOLIDAY  CHEESE  BALL 

3 

NUTS  &  BOLTS 

4 

PIQUANT  CHEESE 

2 

RAW  VEGETABLE  SANDWICH 

SPREAD 

2 

SPINACH  SANDWICHES 

3 

Soup,  Salads  &  Vegetables 


APRICOT  SALAD 

8 

BAKED  POTATO  SOUP 

5 

BEAN  SOUP 

5 

BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

13 

BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

13 

BULL  HEAD  POTATOES 

18 

CAULIFLOWER  BAKE 

14 

CELERY  CRUNCH 

16 

CORN  PUDDING 

16 

CRUNCHY  COLESLAW 

15 

CUCUMBER  ASPIC 

11 

DILLED  CARROTS 

16 

DRESSING  FOR  SPINACH 

SALAD 

8 

FRENCH  ONION  CASSEROLE 

14 

FRESH  FRUIT  DRESSING 

8 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

7 

GOLDEN  CORN  FRITTERS 

15 

HARVARD  BEETS 

13 

LEMON  JELLO  DELUXE  SALAD 

6 

LEMON  JELLO  SALAD 

9 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

CASSEROLE 

17 

MARINATED  CARROTS 

17 

ORANGE  CONGEALED  SALAD 

7 

ORANGE  GLAZED  SWEET 

POTATOES 

19 

PARTY  SALAD 

6 

PASTA  SALAD 

10 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

7 

POSH  SQUASH 

12 

POTATO  CASSEROLE 

18 

SHRIMP  ASPIC 

10 

SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

12 

SWEET  POTATO  CASSEROLE 

19 

TOMATO  ASPIC 

11 

BARBECUE  SAUCE  FOR 

CHICKEN  28 

BARBECUED  BEEF  23 

BEEF  BARBECUE  23 

BURRITO  BAKE  22 

CHICKEN  AND  RICE  29 

CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  27 
CHICKEN  CRANBERRY 

LAYERS  26 

CHILI  21 
CURRIED  TURKEY 

CASSEROLE  28 

DUTCH  MEAT  LOAF  21 

EASY  CHICKEN  A  LA  KING  27 
EGGPLANT  AND  HAMBURGER 

CASSEROLE  22 

GRILLED  PORK  TENDERLOIN  31 

HOT  CHICKEN  SALAD  27 

ITALIAN  CASSEROLE  25 

LONDON  BROIL  MARINADE  25 

MAGIC  STEW  24 

MARY'S  BAKED  CRAB  32 

PARTY  CHICKEN  29 

RED  SIMMERED  CHICKEN  29 
SAUSAGE  AND  EGG 

CASSEROLE  32 
SAVORY  CRESCENT  TURKEY 

SQUARES  30 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS  32 

SHOYU  POT  ROAST  BEEF  24 
SOUTHERN  BARBECUE 

CROCKPOT  RECIPE  31 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  CHICKEN  30 

Breads  &  Rolls 

APPLE  BREAD  33 

BANANA  NUT  BREAD  34 

BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS  35 

CHEESE  BISCUITS  36 

DUMPLINGS  35 
ICE  BOX  ROLLS-GRANNY'S 

RECIPE  38 

OATMEAL  BREAD  35 

ODIE'S  OYSTER  DRESSING  38 
REFRIGERATOR  BRAN 

MUFFINS  36 

SPOONBREAD  34 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS  37 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS  37 

SWEET  POTATO  ROLLS  37 

VIRGINIA  EGG  BREAD  33 


Pies,  Pastries  &  Desserts 

APPLE  COBBLER  43 
BAKED  RICE  CUSTARD  47 
BOILED  CUSTARD  48 
CHOCOLATE  FONDUE  48 
CHOCOLATE  MERINGUE  PIE- 
GRANNY'S  RECIPE  39 
COCONUT  CUSTARD  PIE  41 
DEEP  DISH  APPLE  CRISP  43 
EASY  CHEESE  CAKE  PIE  39 
FRUIT  COBBLER  44 
HAWAIIAN  PIE  40 
LEMON  CHESS  SQUARES  46 
LEMON  CURD  46 
LEMON  FLUFF  45 
OFFICIAL  COBBLER  OF  THE 

VIRGINIA  PEACH  FESTIVAL  44 

PEACH  PIE  43 

PECAN  BARS  45 

PINEAPPLE  ANGEL  DESSERT  47 

PINEAPPLE  ICEBOX  PIE  40 

SOUTHERN  STRAWBERRY  PIE  42 

STRAWBERRY  PIE  42 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE  41 

Cakes,  Cookies  &  Candy 


PINEAPPLE  UPSIDE  DOWN 

CAKE  60 

POUND  CAKE  59 

PRUNE  CAKE  60 

PULL  CANDY  70 
RUTH'S  COCONUT/SOUR 

CREAM  CAKE  53 

SNICKERDOODLES  66 
STRAWBERRY  ANGEL  FOOD 

CAKE  63 

WALDORF  ASTORIA  CAKE  62 

WHITE  CHOCOLATE  COOKIES  66 
YUMMY  CHOCOLATE  SYRUP 

CAKE  61 

Canning,  Preserving,  This  & 
That 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER 

PICKLES  72 
GRANNY'S  HOME  FREEZER 

ICE  CREAM  74 

STRAWBERRY  JAM  71 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES  71 

SWEET  PICKLES  72 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  75 

WATERMELON  PICKLES  73 


ALMOND  COOKIES 

63 

APRICOT  NECTAR  CAKE 

50 

BANANA  SPLIT  CAKE 

51 

BOURBON  JETS 

68 

BRANDY  NUT  CAKE 

52 

BROWN  SUGAR  CHEWS 

64 

BROWN  SUGAR  POUND  CAKE 

52 

CHOCOLATE  CHERRY  CAKE 

53 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

63 

CHOCOLATE  MINT  PARTY 

SQUARES 

68 

CHOCOLATE  'N  OAT  BARS 

64 

CHOCOLATE  SEAFOAM 

69 

COCONUT  BLACK  WALNUT 

POUND  CAKE 

54 

COOKIE  BARS 

64 

DIVINITY  CANDY 

69 

DUMP  CAKE 

61 

FAMILY  TEA  COOKIES 

65 

4  LAYER  CAKE 

49 

FRESH  APPLE  CAKE 

50 

FRUIT  CAKE 

56 

FUDGE 

70 

GINGERBREAD 

55 

HUMMINGBIRD  CAKE 

58 

ICE  BOX  COOKIES 

65 

LOUISE'S  BROWNIES 

67 

MANOR  PLAIN  CAKE 

57 

MERINGUE  KISSES 

70 

ORANGE  BLOSSOMS 

59 

«  s  «. 


Cooking  <Tips 


1 .  After  stewing  a  chicken, 
cool  in  broth  before  cutting 
into  chunks;  it  will  have  twice 
the  flavor. 

2.  To  slice  meat  into  thin  strips,  as  for  stir- 
fry  dishes,  partially  freeze  it  so  it  will 
slice  more  easily. 

3.  A  roast  with  the  bone  in  will  cook  faster 
than  a  boneless  roast.  The  bone  carries 
the  heat  to  the  inside  more  quickly. 

4.  When  making  a  roast,  place  dry  onion 
soup  mix  in  the  bottom  of  your  roaster 
pan.  After  removing  the  roast,  add  1 
can  of  mushroom  soup  and  you  will 
have  a  good  brown  gravy. 

5.  For  a  juicier  hamburger,  add  cold 
water  to  the  beef  before  grilling  (V2  cup 
to  1  pound  of  meat). 

6.  To  freeze  meatballs,  place  them  on  a 
cookie  sheet  until  frozen.  Place  in 
plastic  bags.  They  will  stay  separated 
so  that  you  may  remove  as  many  as 
you  want. 

7.  To  keep  cauliflower  white  while  cook- 
ing, add  a  little  milk  to  the  water. 

8.  When  boiling  corn,  add  sugar  to  the 
water  instead  of  salt.  Salt  will  toughen 
the  corn. 

9.  To  ripen  tomatoes,  put  them  in  a 
brown  paper  bag  in  a  dark  pantry,  and 
they  will  ripen  overnight. 

10.  To  keep  celery  crisp,  stand  it  upright 
in  a  pitcher  of  cold,  salted  water  and 
refrigerate. 


11.  When  cooking  cabbage, 
place  a  small  tin  cup  or 
can  half  full  of  vinegar 
the  stove  near  the  cabbage.  It 
will  absorb  the  odor. 

12.  Potatoes  soaked  in  salt  water  for  20 
minutes  before  baking  will  bake  more 
rapidly. 

13.  Let  raw  potatoes  stand  in  cold  water 
for  at  least  a  half-hour  before  frying  in 
order  to  improve  the  crispness  of 
French-fried  potatoes.  Dry  potatoes 
thoroughly  before  adding  to  oil. 

14.  Use  greased  muffin  tins  as  molds 
when  baking  stuffed  green  peppers. 

1 5.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  in  the  water 
will  whiten  boiled  potatoes. 

16.  Buy  mushrooms  before  they  "open." 
When  stems  and  caps  are  attached 
firmly,  mushrooms  are  truly  fresh. 

17.  Do  not  use  metal  bowls  when  mixing 
salads.  Use  wood,  glass  or  china. 

18.  Lettuce  keeps  better  if  you  store  it  in 
the  refrigerator  without  washing  it. 
Keep  the  leaves  dry.  Wash  lettuce  the 
day  you  are  going  to  use  it. 

19.  Do  not  use  soda  to  keep  vegetables 
green.  It  destroys  Vitamin  C. 

20.  Do  not  despair  if  you  oversalt  gravy. 
Stir  in  some  instant  mashed  potatoes 
to  repair  the  damage.  Just  add  a  little 
more  liquid  in  order  to  offset  the 
thickening. 


Copyright©  1999 
Cookbooks  by  Morris  Press 


Jierbs  &>  Spices 


Acquaint  yourself  with  herbs  and  spices.  Add  in 
small  amounts,  V*  teaspoon  for  every  4  servings.  Crush 
dried  herbs  or  snip  fresh  ones  before  using.  Use  3  times  more 
fresh  herbs  if  substituting  fresh  for  dried. 


Basil  Sweet,  warm  flavor  with  an  aromatic  odor.  Use  whole  or 

ground.  Good  with  lamb,  fish,  roast,  stews,  ground  beef, 
vegetables,  dressing  and  omelets. 

Bay  Leaves    Pungent  flavor.  Use  whole  leaf  but  remove  before  serving. 
Good  in  vegetable  dishes,  seafood,  stews  and  pickles. 

Caraway         Spicy  taste  and  aromatic  smell.  Use  in  cakes,  breads, 
soups,  cheese  and  sauerkraut. 

Chives  Sweet,  mild  flavor  like  that  of  onion.  Excellent  in  salads, 

fish,  soups  and  potatoes. 

Cilantro  Use  fresh.  Excellent  in  salads,  fish,  chicken,  rice,  beans 

and  Mexican  dishes. 

Curry  Spices  are  combined  to  proper  proportions  to  give  a  distinct 

Powder  flavor  to  meat,  poultry,  fish  and  vegetables. 


Dill 


Both  seeds  and  leaves  are  flavorful.  Leaves  may  be  used 
as  a  garnish  or  cooked  with  fish,  soup,  dressings,  pota- 
toes and  beans.  Leaves  or  the  whole  plant  may  be  used 
to  flavor  pickles. 


Fennel  Sweet,  hot  flavor.  Both  seeds  and  leaves  are  used.  Use 

in  small  quantities  in  pies  and  baked  goods.  Leaves  can 
be  boiled  with  fish. 


Ginger  A  pungent  root,  this  aromatic  spice  is  sold  fresh,  dried  or 

ground.  Use  in  pickles,  preserves,  cakes,  cookies,  soups 
and  meat  dishes. 


Merbs  6*  Spices 


Marjoram  May  be  used  both  dried  or  green.  Use  to  flavor  fish,  poultry, 
omelets,  lamb,  stew,  stuffing  and  tomato  juice. 

Mint  Aromatic  with  a  cool  flavor.  Excellent  in  beverages,  fish, 

lamb,  cheese,  soup,  peas,  carrots,  and  fruit  desserts. 

Oregano  Strong,  aromatic  odor.  Use  whole  or  ground  in  tomato 
juice,  fish,  eggs,  pizza,  omelets,  chili,  stew,  gravy,  poultry 
and  vegetables. 

Paprika  A  bright  red  pepper,  this  spice  is  used  in  meat,  vegetables 

and  soups  or  as  a  garnish  for  potatoes,  salads  or  eggs. 

Parsley  Best  when  used  fresh,  but  can  be  used  dried  as  a  garnish 

or  as  a  seasoning.  Try  in  fish,  omelets,  soup,  meat,  stuffing 
and  mixed  greens. 

Rosemary  Very  aromatic.  Can  be  used  fresh  or  dried.  Season  fish, 
stuffing,  beef,  lamb,  poultry,  onions,  eggs,  bread  and 
potatoes.  Great  in  dressings. 

Saffron  Orange-yellow  in  color,  this  spice  flavors  or  colors  foods. 

Use  in  soup,  chicken,  rice  and  breads. 

Sage  Use  fresh  or  dried.  The  flowers  are  sometimes  used  in 

salads.  May  be  used  in  tomato  juice,  fish,  omelets,  beef, 
poultry,  stuffing,  cheese  spreads  and  breads. 

Tarragon  Leaves  have  a  pungent,  hot  taste.  Use  to  flavor  sauces, 
salads,  fish,  poultry,  tomatoes,  eggs,  green  beans,  carrots 
and  dressings. 

Thyme  Sprinkle  leaves  on  fish  or  poultry  before  broiling  or  baking. 

Throw  a  few  sprigs  directly  on  coals  shortly  before  meat 
is  finished  grilling. 


Op    Vakng  breads 

Hints  for  Baking  Breads 

WF    1 .  Kneading  dough  for  30  sec-      5.  Small  amounts  of  leftover  corn 
^  onds  after  mixing   improves  the  may  be  added  to  pancake  batter 

texture  of  baking  powder  biscuits.  for  variety. 


2.  Instead  of  shortening,  use  cooking  or 
salad  oil  in  waffles  and  hot  cakes. 

3.  When  bread  is  baking,  a  small  dish  of 
water  in  the  oven  will  help  keep  the  crust 
from  hardening. 

4.  Dip  a  spoon  in  hot  water  to  measure 
shortening,  butter,  etc.,  and  the  fat  will 
slip  out  more  easily. 


6.  To  make  bread  crumbs,  use  the  fine  cutter 
of  a  food  grinder  and  tie  a  large  paper 
bag  over  the  spout  in  order  to  prevent 
flying  crumbs. 

7.  When  you  are  doing  any  sort  of  baking, 
you  get  better  results  if  you  remember  to 
preheat  your  cookie  sheet,  muffin  tins  or 
cake  pans. 


Rules  for  Use  of  Leavening  Agents 

1 .  In  simple  flour  mixtures,  use  2  tea-  3.  To  substitute  soda  and  an  acid  for  bak- 
spoons  baking  powder  to  leaven  1  cup  ing  powder,  divide  the  amount  of  baking 
flour.  Reduce  this  amount  V2  teaspoon  powder  by  4.  Take  that  as  your  measure 
for  each  egg  used.                                           and  add  acid  according  to  rule  2. 

2.  To  1  teaspoon  soda  use  2  1/4  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar,  2  cups  freshly  soured 
milk,  or  1  cup  molasses. 


Proportions  of  Baking  Powder  to  Flour 

biscuits to  1  cup  flour  use  1  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

cake  with  oil   to  1  cup  flour  use  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

muffins  to  1  cup  flour  use  1  V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

popovers    to  1  cup  flour  use  1  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

waffles  to  1  cup  flour  use  1  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

Proportions  of  Liquid  to  Flour 

drop  batter to  1  cup  liquid  use  2  to  2  V2  cups  flour 

pour  batter to  1  cup  liquid  use  1  cup  flour 

soft  dough  to  1  cup  liquid  use  3  to  3  V2  cups  flour 

stiff  dough  to  1  cup  liquid  use  4  cups  flour 


Time  and  Temperature  Chart 

Breads  Minutes  Temperature 

biscuits 12  -  15 400°  -  450° 

cornbread 25  -  30 400°  -  425° 

gingerbread 40  -  50 350°  -  370° 

loaf  50  -  60 350°  -  400° 

nut  bread 50  -  75 350° 

popovers 30  -  40 425°  -  450° 

rolls 20  -  30 400°  -  450° 


ing 


Perfect 

Cookie  dough  that  is  to  be 
rolled  is  much  easier  to  handle 
after  it  has  been  refrigerated  for  10  to  30 
minutes.  This  keeps  the  dough  from  stick- 
ing, even  though  it  may  be  soft.  If  not  done, 
the  soft  dough  may  require  more  flour  and 
too  much  flour  makes  cookies  hard  and 
brittle.  Place  on  a  floured  board  only  as 
much  dough  as  can  be  easily  managed. 


Cookies 

Flour  the  rolling  pin  slightly  and 
roll  lightly  to  desired  thickness. 
Cut  shapes  close  together  and  add  trim- 
mings to  dough  that  needs  to  be  rolled. 
Place  pans  or  sheets  in  upper  third  of 
oven.  Watch  cookies  carefully  while  baking 
in  order  to  avoid  burned  edges.  When 
sprinkling  sugar  on  cookies,  try  putting  it 
into  a  salt  shaker  in  order  to  save  time. 


Perfect  Pies 

1.  Pie  crust  will  be  better  and  easier  to 
make  if  all  the  ingredients  are  cool. 

2.  The  lower  crust  should  be  placed  in  the 
pan  so  that  it  covers  the  surface  smoothly. 
Air  pockets  beneath  the  surface  will  push 
the  crust  out  of  shape  while  baking. 

3.  Folding  the  top  crust  over  the  lower 
crust  before  crimping  will  keep  juices  in 
the  pie. 

4.  In  making  custard  pie,  bake  at  a  high 
temperature  for  about  ten  minutes  to 
prevent  a  soggy  crust.  Then  finish  baking 
at  a  low  temperature. 

5.  When  making  cream  pie,  sprinkle  crust 
with  powdered  sugar  in  order  to  prevent 
it  from  becoming  soggy. 


Perfect  Cakes 

1.  Fill  cake  pans  two-thirds  full  and  spread 
batter  into  corners  and  sides,  leaving  a 
slight  hollow  in  the  center. 

2.  Cake  is  done  when  it  shrinks  from  the 
sides  of  the  pan  or  if  it  springs  back 
when  touched  lightly  with  the  finger. 

3.  After  removing  a  cake  from  the  oven, 
place  it  on  a  rack  for  about  five  minutes. 
Then,  the  sides  should  be  loosened  and 
the  cake  turned  out  on  a  rack  in  order  to 
finish  cooling. 

4.  Do  not  frost  cakes  until  thoroughly  cool. 

5.  Icing  will  remain  where  you  put  it  if  you 
sprinkle  cake  with  powdered  sugar  first. 


Time  and  Temperature  Chart 

Dessert  Time  Temperature 

butter  cake,  layer 20-40  min 380°  -  400° 

butter  cake,  loaf 40-60  min 360°  -  400° 

cake,  angel , 50-60  min 300°  -  360° 

cake,  fruit  3-4  hrs 275°  -  325° 

cake,  sponge  40-60  min 300°  -  350° 

cookies,  molasses  18-20  min 350°  -  375° 

cookies,  thin 10-12  min 380°  -  390° 

cream  puffs 45-60  min 300°  -  350° 

meringue  40-60  min 250°  -  300° 

pie  crust 20-40  min 400°  -  500° 


Vegetables 
6*  HFruits 


Vegetable  Cooking  Method  Time 

artichokes boiled  40  min. 

steamed 45-60  min. 

asparagus  tips boiled 10-15  min. 

beans,  lima boiled 20-40  min. 

steamed  60  min. 

beans,  string  boiled 15-35  min. 

steamed  60  min. 

beets,  old boiled  or  steamed 1-2  hours 

beets,  young  with  skin boiled  30  min. 

steamed  60  min. 

baked 70-90  min. 

broccoli,  flowerets  boiled 5-10  min. 

broccoli,  stems boiled 20-30  min. 

brussels  sprouts boiled 20-30  min. 

cabbage,  chopped boiled 10-20  min. 

steamed  25  min. 

carrots,  cut  across boiled 8-10  min. 

steamed  40  min. 

cauliflower,  flowerets boiled 8-10  min. 

cauliflower,  stem  down boiled 20-30  min. 

corn,  green,  tender  boiled 5-10  min. 

steamed  15  min. 

baked  20  min. 

corn  on  the  cob boiled 8-10  min. 

steamed  15  min. 

eggplant,  whole boiled  30  min. 

steamed  40  min. 

baked  45  min. 

parsnips boiled 25-40  min. 

steamed  60  min. 

baked 60-75  min. 

peas,  green  boiled  or  steamed  5-15  min. 

potatoes boiled 20-40  min. 

steamed  60  min. 

baked 45-60  min. 

pumpkin  or  squash  boiled 20-40  min. 

steamed  45  min. 

baked  60  min. 

tomatoes  boiled 5-15  min. 

turnips  boiled 25-40  min. 


Drying  Time  Table 

Fruit  Sugar  or  Honey  Cooking  Time 

apricots  Va  c.  for  each  cup  of  fruit about  40  min. 

figs 1  T.  for  each  cup  of  fruit  about  30  min. 

peaches 1/4  c.  for  each  cup  of  fruit about  45  min. 

prunes 2  T.  for  each  cup  of  fruit  about  45  min. 


S^HFri 


Buying  Fresh  Vegetables 

Artichokes:  Look  for  compact,  tightly 
closed  heads  with  green,  clean-looking 
leaves.  Avoid  those  with  leaves  that  are 
brown  or  separated. 

Asparagus:  Stalks  should  be  tender  and 
firm;  tips  should  be  close  and  compact. 
Choose  the  stalks  with  very  little  white;  they 
are  more  tender.  Use  asparagus  soon 
because  it  toughens  rapidly. 

Beans,  Snap:  Those  with  small  seeds 
inside  the  pods  are  best.  Avoid  beans  with 
dry-looking  pods. 

Broccoli,  Brussels  Sprouts  and 
Cauliflower:  Flower  clusters  on  broccoli 
and  cauliflower  should  be  tight  and  close 
together.  Brussels  sprouts  should  be  firm 
and  compact.  Smudgy,  dirty  spots  may 
indicate  pests  or  disease. 

Cabbage  and  Head  Lettuce:  Choose 
heads  that  are  heavy  for  their  size.  Avoid 
cabbage  with  worm  holes  and  lettuce  with 
discoloration  or  soft  rot. 

Cucumbers:  Choose  long,  slender  cucum- 
bers for  best  quality.  May  be  dark  or  medium 
green,  but  yellow  ones  are  undesirable. 

Mushrooms:  Caps  should  be  closed 
around  the  stems.  Avoid  black  or  brown  gills. 

Peas  and  Lima  Beans:  Select  pods  that 
are  well-filled  but  not  bulging.  Avoid  dried, 
spotted,  yellow,  or  flabby  pods. 


Buying  Fresh  Fruits 

Bananas:  Skin  should  be  free  of  bruises 
and  black  or  brown  spots.  Purchase  them 
green  and  allow  them  to  ripen  at  home  at 
room  temperature. 

Berries:  Select  plump,  solid  berries  with 
good  color.  Avoid  stained  containers  which 
indicate  wet  or  leaky  berries.  Berries  with 
clinging  caps,  such  as  blackberries  and 
raspberries,  may  be  unripe.  Strawberries 
without  caps  may  be  overripe. 

Melons:  In  cantaloupes,  thick,  close  netting 
on  the  rind  indicates  best  quality.  Canta- 
loupes are  ripe  when  the  stem  scar  is 
smooth  and  the  space  between  the  netting 
is  yellow  or  yellow-green.  They  are  best 
when  fully  ripe  with  fruity  odor. 

Honeydews  are  ripe  when  rind  has  creamy 
to  yellowish  color  and  velvety  texture. 
Immature  honeydews  are  whitish-green. 

Ripe  watermelons  have  some  yellow  color 
on  one  side.  If  melons  are  white  or  pale 
green  on  one  side,  they  are  not  ripe. 

Oranges,  Grapefruit  and  Lemons:  Choose 
those  heavy  for  their  size.  Smoother,  thinner 
skins  usually  indicate  more  juice.  Most  skin 
markings  do  not  affect  quality.  Oranges 
with  a  slight  greenish  tinge  may  be  just  as 
ripe  as  fully  colored  ones.  Light  or  greenish- 
yellow  lemons  are  more  tart  than  deep  yellow 
ones.  Avoid  citrus  fruits  showing  withered, 
sunken  or  soft  areas. 


Napkin  folding 


-it$:-  -Wt"  ~W*'---*m 


General  Tips: 

Use  well-starched  linen  napkins  if  possible.  For  more  complicated 
24-inch  napkins  work  best.  Practice  the  folds  with  newspapers 
Children  can  help.  Once  they  learn  the  folds,  they  will  have  fun! 


Sfiield 


Easy  fold.  Elegant  with  monogram  in  corner. 


Instructions: 

1 .  Fold  into  quarter  size.  If 
monogrammed,  ornate 
corner  should  face  down. 

2.  Turn  up  folded  corner 
three-quarters. 

3.  Overlap  right  side  and  left 
side  points. 

4.  Turn  over;  adjust  sides  so 
that  they  are  even,  single 
point  in  center. 

5.  Place  point  up  or  down 
on  plate,  or  left  of  plate. 


^Rosette 

Elegant  on  plate. 


Instructions: 

1 .  Fold  left  and  right  edges  to 
center,  leaving  V2"  opening 
along  center. 

2.  Pleat  firmly  from  top  edge  to 
bottom  edge.  Sharpen  edges 
with  hot  iron. 

3.  Pinch  center  together.  If 
necessary,  use  small  piece 
of  pipe  cleaner  to  secure 
and  top  with  single  flower. 

4.  Spread  out  rosette. 


U 


2     f 


'$m  ■■■0S-"'~:tm~';.i&: 


SNapfiin  folding 


Candle 


Easy  to  do;  can  be  decorated. 


Instructions: 

1.  Fold  into  triangle,  point  at  top. 

2.  Turn  lower  edge  up  1". 

3.  Turn  over,  folded  edge  down. 

4.  Roll  tightly  from  left  to  right. 

5.  Tuck  in  corner.  Stand  upright. 


Tan 


Pretty  in  napkin  ring  or  on  plate. 


Instructions: 

1 .  Fold  top  and  bottom  edges  to  center 

2.  Fold  top  and  bottom  edges  to  center 
a  second  time. 

3.  Pleat  firmly  from  the  left  edge. 
Sharpen  edges  with  hot  iron. 

4.  Spread  out  fan.  Balance  flat 
folds  of  each  side  on  table. 
Well-starched  napkins  will 
hold  shape. 


f\->  ■■■ 


3   W 


Lily 


Effective  and  pretty  on  table. 


Instructions: 


Fold  napkin  into  quarters. 

Fold  into  triangle,  closed 

corner  to  open  points. 

Turn  two  points  over  to  other 

side.  (Two  points  are  on 

either  side  of  closed  point.) 

Pleat. 

Place  closed  end  in  glass. 

Pull  down  two  points  on 

each  side  and  shape. 


Measurements 
&  Substitutions 


Measurements 

a  pinch Ve  teaspoon  or  less 

3  teaspoons  1  tablespoon 

4  tablespoons 1At  cup 

8  tablespoons V2  cup 

12  tablespoons 3/4  cup 

16  tablespoons 1  cup 

2  cups 1  pint 

4  cups  1  quart 

4  quarts  1  gallon 

8  quarts 1  peck 

4  pecks  1  bushel 

16  ounces 1  pound 

32  ounces  1  quart 

1  ounce  liquid 2  tablespoons 

8  ounces  liquid 1  cup 

Use  standard  measuring  spoons  and  cups. 
All  measurements  are  level. 


Substitutions 

Ingredient  Quantity  Substitute 

baking  powder 1  teaspoon  Va  tsp.  baking  soda  plus 

1/2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 
catsup  or  chili  sauce  1  cup 1  c.  tomato  sauce  plus  V2  c.  sugar  and 

2  T.  vinegar  (for  use  in  cooking) 

chocolate 1  square  (1  oz.) 3  or  4  T.  cocoa  plus  1  T.  butter 

cornstarch  1  tablespoon 2  T.  flour  or  2  tsp.  quick-cooking  tapioca 

cracker  crumbs  3/4  cup 1  c.  bread  crumbs 

dates  1  lb 1  1/2  c.  dates,  pitted  and  cut 

dry  mustard 1  teaspoon  1  T.  prepared  mustard 

flour,  self-rising 1  cup 1  c.  all-purpose  flour,  V2  tsp. 

salt,  and  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

herbs,  fresh  1  tablespoon 1  tsp.  dried  herbs 

milk,  sour 1  cup 1  T.  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  plus  sweet 

milk  to  make  1  c.  (let  stand  5  minutes) 

whole 1  cup V2  c.  evaporated  milk  plus  V2  c.  water 

min.  marshmallows  10  1  Ig.  marshmallow 

onion,  fresh  1  small 1  T.  instant  minced  onion,  rehydrated 

sugar,  brown  1/2  cup 2  T.  molasses  in  V2  c.  granulated  sugar 

powdered 1  cup 1  0  granulated  sugar  plus  1  tsp.  cornstarch 

tomato  juice 1  cup V2  c.  tomato  sauce  plus  V2  c.  water 

When  substituting  cocoa  for  chocolate  in  cakes,  the  amount  of  flour  must 
be  reduced.  Brown  and  white  sugars  usually  can  be  interchanged. 


cjuiMilency  Chart 


Food  Quantity  Yield 

apple 1  medium  1  cup 

banana,  mashed 1  medium 1/3  cup 

bread 1  Vz  slices 1  cup  soft  crumbs 

bread 1  slice Va  cup  fine,  dry  crumbs 

butter 1  stick  or  Va  pound 1/2  cup 

cheese,  American,  cubed 1  pound  2  2/3  cups 

American,  grated  1  pound 5  cups 

cream  cheese 3-ounce  package 6  2/3  tablespoons 

chocolate,  bitter 1  square  1  ounce 

cocoa  1  pound 4  cups 

coconut 1  1/2  pound  package 2  2/3  cups 

coffee,  ground 1  pound 5  cups 

cornmeal 1  pound 3  cups 

cornstarch 1  pound 3  cups 

crackers,  graham  14  squares 1  cup  fine  crumbs 

saltine 28  crackers 1  cup  fine  crumbs 

egg 4-5  whole 1  cup 

whites 8-10 1  cup 

yolks 10-12 1  cup 

evaporated  milk 1  cup 3  cups  whipped 

flour,  cake,  sifted 1  pound 4  Vz  cups 

rye 1  pound 5  cups 

white,  sifted 1  pound 4  cups 

white,  unsifted 1  pound 3  3/a  cups 

gelatin,  flavored 3  Va  ounces V2  cup 

unflavored Va  ounce  1  tablespoon 

lemon  1  medium  3  tablespoon  juice 

marshmallows 16 Va  pound 

noodles,  cooked 8-ounce  package 7  cups 

uncooked  4  ounces  (1  Vz  cups) 2-3  cups  cooked 

macaroni,  cooked 8-ounce  package 6  cups 

macaroni,  uncooked 4  ounces  (1  Va  cups)  2  Va  cups  cooked 

spaghetti,  uncooked 7  ounces 4  cups  cooked 

nuts,  chopped Va  pound 1  cup 

almonds  1  pound 3  V2  cups 

walnuts,  broken  1  pound 3  cups 

walnuts,  unshelled  1  pound 1  V2  to  1  3/4  cups 

onion 1  medium V2  cup 

orange 3-4  medium 1  cup  juice 

raisins 1  pound 3  V2  cups 

rice,  brown  1  cup 4  cups  cooked 

converted 1  cup  3  Vz  cups  cooked 

regular  1  cup 3  cups  cooked 

wild 1  cup 4  cups  cooked 

sugar,  brown 1  pound 2  1/2  cups 

powdered 1  pound 3  Vz  cups 

white 1  pound 2  cups 

vanilla  wafers  22 1  cup  fine  crumbs 

zwieback,  crumbled  4 1  cups 


HFood  Quantities 

For  Large  Servings 


25  Servings  50  Servings  100  Servings 

Beverages: 

coffee 1/2  pound  and 1  pound  and  2  pounds  and 

1  1/2  gallons  water  3  gallons  water  6  gallons  water 

lemonade 10-15  lemons  and  20-30  lemons  and 40-60  lemons  and 

1  V2  gallons  water  3  gallons  water  6  gallons  water 

tea V12  pound  and  1/6  pound  and 1/3  pound  and 

1  V2  gallons  water  3  gallons  water  6  gallons  water 

Desserts: 

layered  cake 1  12"  cake  3  10"  cakes 6  10"  cakes 

sheet  cake 1  10"  x  12"  cake 1  12"  x  20"  cake  2  12"  x  20"  cakes 

watermelon  37  V2  pounds 75  pounds 150  pounds 

whipping  cream 3/4  pint 1  V2  to  2  pints 3-4  pints 


Ice  cream: 

brick 

bulk  


.3  Va  quarts 6  V2  quarts  13  quarts 

.2  Va  quarts 4  V2  quarts  or  9  quarts  or 

1  Va  gallons  2  V2  gallons 


Meat,  poultry  or  fish: 

fish 13  pounds 25  pounds 50  pounds 

fish,  fillets  or  steak 7  V2  pounds 15  pounds 30  pounds 

hamburger 9  pounds 18  pounds 35  pounds 

turkey  or  chicken 13  pounds 25  to  35  pounds  50  to  75  pounds 

wieners  (beef)  6  V2  pounds 13  pounds 25  pounds 

Salads,  casseroles: 

baked  beans  3/4  gallon 1  Va  gallons 2  V2  gallons 

jello  salad 3/4  gallon 1  Va  gallons 2  V2  gallons 

potato  salad 4  Va  quarts 2  Va  gallons 4  1/2  gallons 

scalloped  potatoes 4  V2  quarts  or 9  quarts  or 18  quarts 

1  12"  x  20"  pan               2  Va  gallons  4  V2  gallons 

spaghetti  1  Va  gallons  2  V2  gallons 5  gallons 

Sandwiches: 

bread 50  slices  or 100  slices  or 200  slices  or 

3  1 -pound  loaves  6  1 -pound  loaves         12  1 -pound  loaves 

butter V2  pound 1  pound 2  pounds 

lettuce  1  V2  heads 3  heads 6  heads 

mayonnaise 1  cup 2  cups 4  cups 

mixed  filling 

meat,  eggs,  fish  1  V2  quarts 3  quarts 6  quarts 

jam,  jelly 1  quart  2  quarts 4  quarts 


Microwave  Jiints 


1 .  Place  an  open  box  of 
hardened  brown  sugar  in 
the  microwave  oven  with  1 
cup   hot  water.  Microwave  on 
high  for  1  V2  to  2  minutes  for  V2 
pound  or  2  to  3  minutes  for  1  pound. 

2.  Soften  hard  ice  cream  by  microwaving 
at  30%  power.  One  pint  will  take  15  to 
30  seconds;  one  quart,  30-45  seconds; 
and  one-half  gallon,  45-60  seconds. 

3.  To  melt  chocolate,  place  V2  pound  in 
glass  bowl  or  measuring  cup.  Melt  un- 
covered at  50%  power  for  3-4  minutes; 
stir  after  2  minutes. 

4.  Soften  one  8-ounce  package  of  cream 
cheese  by  microwaving  at  30%  power 
for  2  to  2  V2  minutes.  One  3-ounce 
package  of  cream  cheese  will  soften  in 
1  V2  to  2  minutes. 

5.  A  4  V2  ounce  carton  of  whipped  top- 
ping will  thaw  in  1  minute  on  the  defrost 
setting.  Whipped  topping  should  be 
slightly  firm  in  the  center,  but  it  will 
blend  well  when  stirred.  Do  not  over 
thaw! 


1 1 .  Nuts  will   be  easier  to 
shell  if  you  place  2  cups 
nuts  in  a  1 -quart  casserole 
with  1  cup  of  water.  Cook  for  4 
to  5  minutes  and  the  nutmeats  will 
slip  out  whole  after  cracking  the  shell. 

12.  Stamp  collectors  can  place  a  few  drops 
of  water  on  a  stamp  to  remove  it  from  an 
envelope.  Heat  in  the  microwave  for  20 
seconds,  and  the  stamp  will  come  off. 

13.  Using  a  round  dish  instead  of  a  square 
one  eliminates  overcooked  corners  in 
baking  cakes. 

14.  Sprinkle  a  layer  of  medium,  finely 
chopped  walnuts  evenly  onto  the  bottom 
and  side  of  a  ring  pan  or  bundt  cake 
pan  to  enhances  the  looks  and  eating 
quality.  Pour  in  batter  and  microwave 
as  recipe  directs. 

15.  Do  not  salt  foods  on  the  surface  as  it 
causes  dehydration  and  toughens  food. 
Salt  after  you  remove  from  the  oven 
unless  the  recipe  calls  for  using  salt  in 
the  mixture. 


6.  Soften  jello  that  has  set  up  too  hard  - 
perhaps  you  were  to  chill  it  until  slightly 
thickened  and  forgot  it.  Heat  on  a  low 
power  setting  for  a  very  short  time. 

7.  Heat  hot  packs.  A  wet  fingertip  towel 
will  take  about  25  seconds.  It  depends 
on  the  temperature  of  the  water  used 
to  wet  the  towel. 

8.  To  scald  milk,  cook  1  cup  for  2  to  2  V2 
minutes,  stirring  once  each  minute. 

9.  To  make  dry  bread  crumbs,  cut  6  slices 
of  bread  into  1/2-inch  cubes.  Microwave 
in  3-quart  casserole  6-7  minutes,  or 
until  dry,  stirring  after  3  minutes.  Crush 
in  blender. 

10.  Refresh  stale  potato  chips,  crackers  or 
other  snacks  of  such  type  by  putting  a 
plateful  in  the  microwave  for  30-45 
seconds.  Let  stand  for  1  minute  to  crisp. 
Cereals  can  also  be  crisped. 


16.  Heat  left-over  custard  and  use  it  as 
frosting  for  a  cake. 

17.  Melt  marshmallow  cream.  Half  of  a 
7-ounce  jar  will  melt  in  35-40  seconds 
on  high.  Stir  to  blend. 

18.  To  toast  coconut,  spread  V2  cup 
coconut  in  a  pie  plate  and  cook  for  3-4 
minutes,  stirring  every  30  seconds 
after  2  minutes.  Watch  closely,  as  it 
quickly  browns. 

19.  To  melt  crystallized  honey,  heat 
uncovered  jar  on  high  for  30-45  sec- 
onds. If  jar  is  large,  repeat. 

20.  One  stick  of  butter  or  margarine  will 
soften  in  1  minute  when  microwaved  at 
20%  power. 


m 

Beverages 

apple  juice,  6  oz 90 

coffee  (black) 0 

cola  type,  12  oz 115 

cranberry  juice,  6  oz 115 

ginger  ale,  12  oz 115 

grape  juice,  (prepared  from 

frozen  concentrate),  6  oz 142 

lemonade,  (prepared  from 

frozen  concentrate),  6  oz 85 

milk,  protein  fortified,  1  c 105 

skim,  1  c 90 

whole,  1  c 160 

orange  juice,  6  oz 85 

pineapple  juice,  unsweetened,  6  oz 95 

root  beer,  12  oz 150 

tonic  (quinine  water)  12  oz 132 

Breads 

cornbread,  1  sm.  square  130 

dumplings,  1  med 70 

French  toast,  1  slice 135 

melba  toast,  1  slice  25 

muffins,  blueberry,  1  muffin  110 

bran,  1  muffin 106 

corn,  1  muffin 125 

English,  1  muffin  280 

pancakes,  1  (4-in.) 60 

pumpernickel,  1  slice 75 

rye,  1  slice 60 

waffle,  1  216 

white,  1  slice 60-70 

wholewheat,  1  slice 55-65 

Cereals 

cornflakes,  1  c 105 

cream  of  wheat,  1  c 120 

oatmeal,  1  c 148 

riceflakes,  1  c 105 

shredded  wheat,  1  biscuit  100 

sugar  krisps,  3/4  c 110 


Crackers 

graham,  1  cracker 15-30 

rye  crisp,  1  cracker 35 

saltine,  1  cracker 17-20 

wheat  thins,  1  cracker  9 

Dairy  Products 

butter  or  margarine,  1  T. 100 

cheese,  American,  1  oz 100 

camembert,  1  oz 85 

cheddar,  1  oz 115 

cottage  cheese,  1  oz 30 

mozzarella,  1  oz 90 

parmesan,  1  oz 130 

ricotta,  1  oz 50 

roquefort,  1  oz 105 

Swiss,  1  oz 105 

cream,  light,  1  T.   30 

heavy,  1  T.  55 

sour,  1  T.  45 

hot  chocolate,  with  milk,  1  c 277 

milk  chocolate,  1  oz 145-155 

yogurt 

made  w/ whole  milk,  1  c 150-165 

made  w/ skimmed  milk,  1  c 125 

Eggs 

fried,  1  Ig 100 

poached  or  boiled,  1  Ig 75-80 

scrambled  or  in  omelet,  1  Ig 110-130 


Fish  and  Seafood 

bass,  4  oz 105 

salmon,  broiled  or  baked,  3  oz 155 

sardines,  canned  in  oil,  3  oz 170 

trout,  fried,  3  V2  oz 220 

tuna,  in  oil,  3  oz 170 

in  water,  3  oz 110 


s^ 


Calorie  Counter 


Fruits 

apple,  1  med 80-100 

applesauce,  sweetened,  V2  c 90-115 

unsweetened,  V2  c 50 

banana,  1  med 85 

blueberries,  V2  c 45 

cantaloupe,  V2  c 24 

cherries  (pitted),  raw,  V2  c 40 

grapefruit,  V2  med 55 

grapes,  V2  c 35-55 

honeydew,  V2  c 55 

mango,  1  med 90 

orange,  1  med 65-75 

peach,  1  med 35 

pear,  1  med 60-100 

pineapple,  fresh,  1/2  c 40 

canned  in  syrup,  V2  c 95 

plum,  1  med 30 

strawberries,  fresh,  1/2  c 30 

frozen  and  sweetened,  V2  c 120-140 

tangerine,  1  Ig 39 

watermelon,  1/2  c 42 


Meat  and  Poultry 

beef,  ground  (lean),  3  oz 185 

roast,  3  oz 185 

chicken,  broiled,  3  oz 115 

lamb  chop  (lean),  3  oz 175-200 

steak,  sirloin,  3  oz 175 

tenderloin,  3  oz 174 

top  round,  3  oz 162 

turkey,  dark  meat,  3  oz 175 

white  meat,  3  oz 150 

veal,  cutlet,  3  oz 156 

roast,  3  oz 76 


Nuts 

almonds,  2  T.  105 

cashews,  2T.  100 

peanuts,  2  T. 105 

peanut  butter,  1  T. 95 

pecans,  2T.  95 

pistachios,  2T.  92 

walnuts,  2T.  80 


Pasta 

macaroni  or  spaghetti, 

cooked,  3A  c 115 


Salad  Dressings 

blue  cheese,  1  T. 70 

French,  1  T. 65 

Italian,  1  T.  80 

mayonnaise,  1  T. 100 

olive  oil,  1  T.  124 

Russian,  1  T. 70 

salad  oil,  1  T. 120 


Soups 

bean,  1  c 130-180 

beef  noodle,  1  c 70 

bouillon  and  consomme,  1  c 30 

chicken  noodle,  1  c 65 

chicken  with  rice,  1  c 50 

minestrone,  1  c 80-150 

split  pea,  1  c 145-170 

tomato  with  milk,  1  c 170 

vegetable,  1  c 80-100 


Vegetables 

asparagus,  1  c 35 

broccoli,  cooked,  V2  c 25 

cabbage,  cooked,  V2  c 15-20 

carrots,  cooked,  V2  c 25-30 

cauliflower,  1/2  c 10-15 

corn  (kernels),  V2  c 70 

green  beans,  1  c 30 

lettuce,  shredded,  V2  c 5 

mushrooms,  canned,  V2  c 20 

onions,  cooked,  V2  c 30 

peas,  cooked,  V2  c 60 

potato,  baked,  1  med 90 

chips,  8-10 100 

mashed,  w/milk  &  butter,  1  0  ..200-300 

spinach,  1  c 40 

tomato,  raw,  1  med 25 

cooked,  V2  c 30 


Cooking  rZerms 


Au    gratin:    Topped    with 

crumbs  and/or  cheese   and 

browned  in  oven  or  under  broiler. 


Au  jus:   Served  in  its  own  juices. 

Baste:  To  moisten  foods  during  cooking 
with  pan  drippings  or  special  sauce  in 
order  to  add  flavor  and  prevent  drying. 

Bisque:  A  thick  cream  soup. 

Blanch:  To  immerse  in  rapidly  boiling  water 
and  allow  to  cook  slightly. 

Cream:  To  soften  a  fat,  especially  butter,  by 
beating  it  at  room  temperature.  Butter  and 
sugar  are  often  creamed  together,  making 
a  smooth,  soft  paste. 

Crimp:  To  seal  the  edges  of  a  two-crust  pie 
either  by  pinching  them  at  intervals  with  the 
fingers  or  by  pressing  them  together  with 
the  tines  of  a  fork. 

Crudites:  An  assortment  of  raw  vegetables 
(i.e.  carrots,  broccoli,  celery,  mushrooms) 
that  is  served  as  an  hors  d'oeuvre,  often 
accompanied  by  a  dip. 

Degrease:  To  remove  fat  from  the  surface 
of  stews,  soups,  or  stock.  Usually  cooled  in 
the  refrigerator  so  that  fat  hardens  and  is 
easily  removed. 

Dredge:  To  coat  lightly  with  flour,  corn- 
meal,  etc. 

Entree:  The  main  course. 

Fold:  To  incorporate  a  delicate  substance, 
such  as  whipped  cream  or  beaten  egg 
whites,  into  another  substance  without 
releasing  air  bubbles.  A  spatula  is  used  to 
gently  bring  part  of  the  mixture  from  the 
bottom  of  the  bowl  to  the  top.  The  process 
is  repeated,  while  slowly  rotating  the  bowl, 
until  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  blended. 

Glaze:  To  cover  with  a  glossy  coating,  such 
as  a  melted  and  somewhat  diluted  jelly  for 
fruit  desserts. 


Julienne:    To  cut  vegeta 
bles,  fruits,  or  cheeses  into 
match-shaped  slivers. 


Marinate:  To  allow  food  to  stand  in  a  liquid 
in  order  to  tenderize  or  to  add  flavor. 


Meuniere: 

in  butter. 


Dredged  with  flour  and  sauteed 


Mince:  To  chop  food  into  very  small  pieces. 

Parboil:  To  boil  until  partially  cooked;  to 
blanch.  Usually  final  cooking  in  a  seasoned 
sauce  follows  this  procedure. 

Pare:  To  remove  the  outermost  skin  of  a 
fruit  or  vegetable. 

Poach:  To  cook  gently  in  hot  liquid  kept 
just  below  the  boiling  point. 

Puree:  To  mash  foods  by  hand  by  rubbing 
through  a  sieve  or  food  mill,  or  by  whirling 
in  a  blender  or  food  processor  until  per- 
fectly smooth. 

Refresh:  To  run  cold  water  over  food  that 
has  been  parboiled  in  order  to  stop  the 
cooking  process  quickly. 

Saute:  To  cook  and/or  brown  food  in  a 
small  quantity  of  hot  shortening. 

Scald:  To  heat  to  just  below  the  boiling 
point,  when  tiny  bubbles  appear  at  the 
edge  of  the  saucepan. 

Simmer:  To  cook  in  liquid  just  below  the 
boiling  point.  The  surface  of  the  liquid 
should  be  barely  moving,  broken  from  time 
to  time  by  slowly  rising  bubbles. 

Steep:  To  let  food  stand  in  hot  liquid  in 
order  to  extract  or  to  enhance  flavor,  like  tea 
in  hot  water  or  poached  fruit  in  sugar  syrup. 

Toss:  To  combine  ingredients  with  a  re- 
peated lifting  motion. 

Whip:  To  beat  rapidly  in  order  to  incorpo- 
rate air  and  produce  expansion,  as  in 
heavy  cream  or  egg  whites. 


o 


iSSS"  °*n  Cookbook 


ft 


We  have  the  right  ingredients,.. 

Churches,  schools,  organizations,  and  families  can 
preserve  their  favorite  recipes  by  publishing  a 
\  personalized  cookbook.  Cookbooks  make  a  great 
fundraiser  because  they  are  easy  to  sell  and  highly 
profitable.  Looking  for  a  unique  keepsake?  Our  low  cost 
makes  cookbooks  affordable.  "You  supply  the  recipes  and 
we'll  do  the  rest!""  Cookbooks  by  Morris  Press  has  65  years 
of  experience  and  an  easy  step-by-step  program  offering: 


200  minimum  order; 
as  low  as  $1.65/book. 

Fast  delivery,  90  days  to 
pay,  and  guaranteed  sales! 


Soft  cover,  hardback,  or 
3-ring  style  cookbooks. 

Many  free  features 
and  options. 


Mail  the  postage  paid  card,  or  for  faster  service: 

*  Visit  our  web  site  at  www.morriscookbooks.com 

*  Call  us  at  1-800-445-6621,  ext.  CB 


Discover  the  right  ingredients 
for  a  really  great  cookbook. 


Complete  the  information 
below,  mail  this  card,  and 
we'll  send  you  our  FREE 
Guide  to  Publishing  Your 
Own  Cookbook. 


^coDhboohs 

>  by  morris  press 


3212E.  Hwy30 
Kearney,  NE  68847 
800-445-6621 


* 


Organization 

Address 

Citv 
Phone  ( 

) 

State 

Zip 

Publish  Your  Own  Cookbook 


Cookbooks  by  Morris  Press  has  the  right  ingredients  to  make  a 
really  great  cookbook.  "You  supply  the  recipes  and  we'll  do  the 
rest!" ™  Write  us,  call  us,  or  contact  us  at  our  web  site,  and  we'll  send 
you  our  FREE  step-by-step  Guide  to  Publishing  Your  Own  Cookbook. 
It's  so  easy. 

Several  ways  to  contact  us: 

*  Return  the  postage  paid  reply  card  from  the  other  side 

*  Order  from  our  web  site  at  www.morriscookbooks.com 

*  Call  us  at  1-800-445-6621,  ext.  CB 


NO  POSTAGE 

NECESSARY 

IF  MAILED 

IN  THE 

UNITED  STATES 


BUSINESS   REPLY  MAIL 

FIRST-CLASS  MAIL        PERMIT  NO.  36       KEARNEY,  NE 


POSTAGE  WILL  BE  PAID  BY  ADDRESSEE 

Cookbooks  by  Morris  Press 
P.O.  Box  2110 
Kearney,  NE  68848-9985 


II. . I. . 1. 1. . I. . Lll. . 1. 1. 1. . I, I. , I. .LI, LI, I, I 


GCDhbODhS 

by  morris  press 

P.O.  Box  2110  •  Kearney,  NE  68848 


