CAKES 


UC-NRLF 


%  ALE 


?m 


n 


7 


EDWARDSPENCER 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

DAVIS 


IN  MEMORY  OF 
HARRY  MONTEFIORE  GOLDBERG 

PRESENTED   BY 
Josa  Goldberg 


/ 


tr^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/cakesandaledisseOOspenrich 


THE  "EVERYDAY" 
SERIES 

Edited  by  Gertrude  Paul 

Each  book  contains  a  Recipe  for  every  day  in  the 
year,  including  February  29th.  In  crown  8vo,  strongly 
bound,  Is.  net  each. 

The  Everyday  Vegetable  Book.  ByF.K. 

The  Everyday  Soup  Book.         By  G.  P. 

The    Everyday    Economical   Cookery 
Book.  By  A.  T.  K. 

The  Everyday  Pudding  Book.    By  F.  K. 

"  If  you  want  a  tasty  recipe  for  every  day  in  the  year,  you  can 
do  nothing  better  than  purchase  a  copy  of  the  '  Everyday  Pudding 
Book.'  "—Referee. 

The  Everyday  Savoury  Book.   By 

Marte  Worth. 
"  Nothing  could  be  clearer."— ScAoo^  Guardian. 


Diners  a  Deux.     By  S.  Beach  Chester. 

Author  of"  Anomalies  of  English  Law,"  etc.   Crown 

8vo,  5s.  net. 

Diners  k  Deux  is  a  delightful  piece  of  work,  written  by  a  man  of 

the  world  who  has  studied  life  from  an  exceptionally  advantageous 

point  of  view  in  different  parts  of  the  continent  during  several 

decades,  and  is  full  of  good  stories  drawn  from  very  wide  experience. 

Paul's  Simplicode. 

Crown  8vo,  cloth,  is.  net. 
A  simple  and  thoroughly  practical  and  efl5cient  code 
for  the  use  of  Travellers,  Tourists,  Business  Men, 
Colonial  Emigrants,  Lawyers,  and  the  general  public. 
Everyone  should  use  this,  the  cheapest  code  book  pub- 
lished in  English.     A  sentence  in  a  word. 

LONDON:     STANLEY    PAUL    &    CO. 
31,  Essex  Street,  Strand,  W.C. 


The 

Books  Everyone  Wants 


The    Diner's-Out    Vade   Mecum.      A 

Pocket     "What's    What"    on     the    Manners    and 
Customs  of  Society  Functions, etc., etc.     By  Alfked 
H.  Miles.     Author  of  "The  New  Standard  Elocu- 
tionist," etc.     In  fcap.  8vo  (6i  by  3J),  cloth  bound, 
round  corners,  is.  6d.  net.     Leather,  2s.  net. 
Intended  to  help  the  diffident  and  inexperienced  at  Dinners,  Teas, 
At  Homes,  Receptions,  Balls  and  Suppers,  with  hints  on  Etiquette, 
Dress,  After-Dinner  Speaking,  Story-Telling,  Toasts  and  Sentiments. 

The  Laughter  Lover's  Vade  Mecum. 

Comprising  one  thousand  Good  Stories,  Jokes, 
Epigrams,  and  Verses.  In  fcap.  8vo  (6 J  x  3J),  cloth 
bound,  round  comers,  is.  6d.  net.     Leather,  2s.  net. 

Whoever  wishes  to  secure  a  reoertoire  of  amusing  stories  and  smart 
sayings  to  be  retailed  for  the  delight  of  his  family  and  friends,  cau- 
not  possibly  do  better  than  get  "  The  Laughter  Lover's  Vade 
Mecum";  and  those  who  seek  relief  from  wopries,  little  and  big. 
should  take  advantage  of  the  same  advice. 

My  Own  Reciter.      By  Alfred  H.  Miles. 
Author   of   "  The   Diner's-Out  Vade   Mecum,"  etc. 
Crown  8vo,  is,  net. 
"The  Ballads  have  colour,  warmth  and  movement.     Mr.  Miles  is 
a  poet  of  the  people." — Bookman. 

Cole's  Fun   Doctor.— First  Series.     One 
of  the  two  funniest  books  in  the  world.  By  E.W.  Cole. 
384  pp.,  crown  8vo,  cloth,  2s.  6d. 
The  mission  of  mirth  is  well  understood.    "  Laugh  and  Grow  Fat  " 

is  a  common  proverb,  and  the  healthiness  of  humour  goes  without 

saying. 

Cole's  Fun  Doctor — Second  Series.    The 
other  of  the  two  funniest  books  in  the  world.     By 
E.  W.  Cole.    440  pp.,  crown  8vo,  cloth,  2s.  6d. 
Dr.  Blues  had  an  extensive  practice  until  the  Fun  Doctor  set  up  in 

opposi;ion,  but  now  Fun  Doctors  are  in  requisition  everywhere. 

LONDON:    STANLEY    PAUL    &    CO. 
31,  Essex  Street,  Strand,  W.C. 


CAKES    AND    ALB 


BY    THE     SAME    AUTHOR 

THE  FLOWING  BOWL 

A  TREATISE    ON   DRINKS    OF    ALL    KINDS 

AND    OF    ALL    PERIODS,    INTERSPERSED 

WITH    SUNDRY  ANECDOTES  AND 

REMINISCENCES 

BY 

EDWARD     SPENCER 

('NATHANIEL   GUBBINS') 

Author  of  "Cakes  and  Ale,"  etc. 
Crown  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  2/6  net, 

SECOND     EDITION. 

With  cover  design  by  the  late  Phil  May. 


"  The  Flowing  Bowl  "  overflows  with  good 
cheer.  In  the  happy  style  that  enlivens  its 
companion  volume,  "  Cakes  and  Ale,"  the 
author  gives  a  history  of  drinks  and  their 
use,  interspersed  with  innumerable  recipes 
for  drinks  new  and  old,  dug  out  of  records 
of  ancient  days,  or  set  down  anew. 

London:    STANLEY    PAUL    &    CO. 
31,  Essex  Street,  Strand,  W.C. 


CAKES    &    ALE 

A     DISSERTATION     ON     BANQUETS 


INTERSPERSED   WITH  VARIOUS   RECIPES, 
MORE    OR    LESS    ORIGINAL,    AND 
ANECDOTES,  MAINLY  VERACIOUS 


BY 

EDWARD     SPENCER^  p^^i. 

('NATHAMIKL  GUBBINS')  V^of^j     f «iUja^<£    5p«l 

AUTHOR  OF    "the   FLOWING   BOWL,"    BTC. 


FOURTH    EDITION 

!■   / 

STANLEY    PAUL    &    CO. 
31,  Essex  Street,  Strand,  W.C 


/ 


/  / 

LI1$1^ARY 

SJHiVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 


First  printed  April  1 897 
Reprinted  May  1897 
Cheap  Edition  February  1900 
Reprinted  1913 


TO   THE    MODERN    LUCULLU8 

JOHN  CORLETT 

flLANDEST  OF  HOSTS,  BEST  OF  TRENCHERMIJI 

I  DEDICATE 

(without  any  SORT  OF  PERMISSION) 

THIS  BOOK 


PREFACE 

A  LONG  time  ago,  an  estimable  lady  fell  at  the 
feet  of  an  habitual  publisher,  and  prayed  unto 
him  : — 

"  Give,  oh  !  give  me  the  subject  of  a  book  for 
which  the  world  has  a  need,  and  I  will  write  it 
for  you." 

"  Are  you  an  author,  madam  ?  "  asked  the 
publisher,  motioning  his  visitor  to  a  seat. 

"  No,  sir,"  was  the  proud  reply,  "  I  am  a  poet." 

"  Ah  !  "  said  the  great  man.  "  I  am  afraid 
there  is  no  immediate  worldly  need  of  a  poet.  If 
you  could  only  write  a  good  cookery  book,  now  !  " 

The  story  goes  on  to  relate  how  the  poetess, 
not  rebuffed  in  the  least,  started  on  the  requisite 
culinary  work,  directly  she  got  home  ;  pawned 
her  jewels  to  purchase  postage  stamps,  and  wrote 
far  and  wide  for  recipes,  which  in  course  of  time 
she  obtained,  by  the  hundredweight.  Other 
recipes  she  "  conveyed "  from  ancient  works  oi 
gastronomy,  and  in  a  year  or  two  the  magnum  opu 
was  given  to  the  world  ;  the  lady's  share  in  the 


X  CAKES  AND  ALE 

profits  giving  her  "adequate  provision  for  the 
remainder  of  her  life."  We  are  not  told,  but  it 
is  presumable,  that  the  publisher  received  a  little 
adequate  provision  too. 

History  occasionally  repeats  itself;  and  the 
history  of  the  present  v^ork  begins  in  very  much 
the  same  vv^ay.  Whether  it  vv^ill  finish  in  an 
equally  satisfactory  manner  is  problematical.  I  do 
not  possess  much  of  the  divine  afflatus  myself; 
but  there  has  ever  lurked  writhin  me  some  sort 
of  ambition  to  w^rite  a  book — something  held 
together  by  "tree  calf,"  "half  morocco,"  or 
"  boards "  ;  something  that  might  find  its  way 
into  the  hearts  and  homes  of  an  enlightened 
public  ;  something  which  will  give  some  of  my 
young  fi-iends  ample  opportunity  for  criticism. 
In  the  exercise  of  my  profession  I  have  written 
leagues  of  descriptive  "  copy  " — mostly  lies  and 
racing  selections, — but  up  to  now  there  has  been 
no  urgent  demand  for  a  book  of  any  sort  from 
this  pen.  For  years  my  ambition  has  remained 
ungratified.  Publishers — as  a  rule,  the  most  faint- 
hearted and  least  speculative  of  mankind — have 
held  aloof.  And  whatever  suggestions  I  might 
make  were  rejected,  with  determination,  if  not 
with  contumely. 

At  length  came  the  hour,  and  the  man  ;  the 
introduction  to  a  publisher  with  an  eye  for 
budding  and  hitherto  misdirected  talent. 

"  Do  you  care,  sir,"  I  inquired  at  the  outset,' 


PREFACE  xt 

"  to  undertake  the  dissemination  of  a  bulky  work 
on  Political  Economy  ?  " 

"Frankly,  sir,  I  do  not,"  was  the  reply. 
Then  I  tried  him  with  various  subjects — social 
reform,  the  drama,  bimetallism,  the  ethics  of 
starting  prices,  the  advantages  of  motor  cars  in 
African  warfare,  natural  history,  the  martyrdom 
of  Ananias,  practical  horticulture,  military  law, 
and  dogs  ;  until  he  took  down  an  old  duck-gun 
from  a  peg  over  the  mantelpiece,  and  assumed  a 
threatening  attitude. 

Peace  having  been  restored,  the  self-repetition 
of  history  recommenced. 

"  I  can  do  with  a  good,  bold,  brilliant,  lightly 
treated,  exhaustive  work  on  Gastronomy,"  said 
the  publisher,  "  you  are  well  acquainted  with  the 
subject,  I  believe  ?  " 

"  Fm  a  bit  of  a  parlour  cook,  if  that's  what 
you  mean,"  was  my  humble  reply.  "  At  a  salad, 
a  grill,  an  anchovy  toast,  or  a  cooling  and  cun- 
ningly compounded  cup,  I  can  be  underwritten 
at  ordinary  rates.  But  I  could  no  more  cook  a 
haunch  of  venison,  or  even  boil  a  rabbit,  or  make 
an  economical  Christmas  pudding,  than  I  could 
sail  a  boat  in  a  nor'-easter  ;  and  Madam  Cook 
would  certainly  eject  me  from  her  kitchen,  with 
a  clout  attached  to  the  hem  of  my  dinner  jacket, 
inside  five  minutes." 

Eventually  it  was  decided  that  I  should  com- 
mence this  book. 


xii  CAKES  AND  ALE 

"  What  I  want,"  said  the  publisher,  "  is  a 
series  of  essays  on  food,  a  few  anecdotes  of  stirring 
adventure — you  have  a  fine  flow  of  imagination, 
I  understand — and  a  few  useful,  but  uncommon 
recipes.  But  plenty  of  plums  in  the  book,  my 
dear  sir,  plenty  of  plums." 

"  But,  suppose  my  own  supply  of  plums  should 
not  hold  out,  what  am  I  to  do  ?  " 

"  What  do  you  do — what  does  the  cook  do, 
when  the  plums  for  her  pudding  run  short  ?  Get 
some  more  ;  the  Museum,  my  dear  sir,  the  great 
storehouse  of  national  literature,  is  free  to  all 
whose  character  is  above  the  normal  standard. " 
When  your  memory  and  imagination  fail,  try  the 
British  Museum.  You  know  what  is  a  mightier 
factor  than  both  sword  and  pen  ?  Precisely  so. 
And  remember  that  in  replenishing  your  store 
from  the  works  of  those  who  have  gone  before, 
you  are  only  following  in  their  footsteps.  I  only 
bar  Sydney  Smith  and  Charles  Lamb.  Let  me 
have  the  script  by  Christmas — d'you  smoke  ? — 
mind  the  step — good  morning." 

In  this  way,  gentle  reader,  were  the  trenches 
dug,  the  saps  laid  for  the  attack  of  the  great  work. 
The  bulk  of  it  is  original,  and  the  adventures  in 
which  the  writer  has  taken  part  are  absolutely 
true.  About  some  of  the  others  I  would  not  be 
so  positive.  Some  of  the  recipes  have  previously 
figured  in  the  pages  of  the  Sporting  Times^  the 
Lady's  Pictorial^  and  the  Man  of  the  World^  to 


PREFACE  xiii 

the  proprietors  of  which  journals  I  hereby  express 
my  kindly  thanks  for  permission  to  revive  them. 
Many  of  the  recipes  are  original ;  some  are  my 
ow^n  ;  others  have  been  sent  in  by  relatives,  and 
friends  of  my  youth  ;  others  have  been  adapted 
for  modern  requirements  from  works  of  great 
antiquity  ;  whilst  others  again — I  am  nothing  if 
not  candid — have  been  "  conveyed  **  from  the 
works  of  more  modern  writers,  who  in  their  turn 
had  borrowed  them  from  the  works  of  their 
ancestors.  There  is  nothing  new  under  the  sun  ; 
and  there  are  but  few  absolute  novelties  which 
are  subjected  to  the  heat  of  the  kitchen  fire. 

If  the  style  of  the  work  be  faulty,  the  reason — 
not  the  excuse — is  that  the  style  is  innate,  and 
not  modelled  upon  anybody  else's  style.  The 
language  I  have  endeavoured  to  make  as  plain, 
homely,  and  vigorous  as  is  the  food  advocated.  If 
the  criticisms  on  foreign  cookery  should  offend 
the  talented  chef^  I  have  the  satisfaction  of  know- 
ing that,  as  I  have  forsworn  his  works,  he  will 
be  unable  to  retaliate  with  poison.  And  if  the 
criticism?  on  the  modern  English  methods  of 
preparing  tood  should  attract  the  attention  of  the 
home  caterer,  he  may  possibly  be  induced  to  give 
his  steam-chest  and  his  gas-range  a  rest,  and  put 
the  roast  beef  of  Old  England  on  his  table, 
occasionally ;  though  I  have  only  the  very  faintest 
hopes  that  he  will  do  so.  For  the  monster  eating- 
houses  and  mammoth  hotels  of  to-day  are  for  the 


xiv  CAKES  AND  ALE 

most  part  "  run  "  by  companies  and  syndicates  ; 
and  the  company  within  the  dining-room  suffer 
occasionally,  in  order  that  dividends  may  be 
possible  after  payment  has  been  made  for  the 
elaborate,  and  wholly  unnecessary,  furniture,  and 
decorations.  Wholesome  food  is  usually  sufficient 
for  the  ordinary  British  appetite,  without  such 
surroundings  as  marble  pillars,  Etruscan  vases, 
nude  figures,  gilding,  and  looking-glasses,  which 
only  serve  to  distract  attention  from  the  banquet. 
It  is  with  many  a  sigh  that  I  recall  the  good  old- 
fashioned  inn,  where  the  guest  really  received  a 
warm  welcome.  Nowadays,  the  warmest  part  of 
that  welcome  is  usually  the  bill. 

It  is  related  of  the  wittiest  man  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  my  late  friend  Mr.  Henry  J. 
Byron,  that,  upon  one  occasion,  whilst  walking 
home  with  a  brother  dramatist,  after  the  first 
performance  of  his  comedy,  which  had  failed  to 
please  the  audience,  Byron  shed  tears. 

"  How  is  this  ?  "  inquired  his  friend.  "  The 
failure  of  my  play  appears  to  affect  you  strangely." 

"  I  was  only  weeping,"  was  the  reply,  "  because 
I  was  afraid  you'd  set  to  work,  and  write  another." 

But  there  need  be  no  tears  shed  on  any  page 
of  this  food  book.  For  I  am  not  going  to 
"  write  another." 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  I 

BREAKFAST 

Formal  or  informal  ? — An  eccentric  old  gentleman — ^The  ancient 
Britons — Breakfast  in  the  days  of  Good  {^ueen  Bess — A 
few  tea  statistics — Garraway's — Something  about  coffee — 
Brandy  for  breakfast — The  evolution  of  the  stafFof  life — 
Free  Trade — The  cheap  loaf,  and  no  cash  to  buy  it    Pages  1-9 


CHAPTER   II 

BREAKFAST  [continued) 

Country-house  life — An  Englishwoman  at  her  best — Guests' 
comforts — What  tO  eat  at  the  first  meal — ^A  few  choice 
recipes — A  noble  grill-sauce — The  poor  outcast — Appetising 
dishes — Hotel  "  worries  " — The  old  regime  and  the  new — 
"No  cheques"  J  no  soles,  and  "whitings  is  hofF" — A 
halibut  steak — Skilly  and  oakum — Breakfast  out  of  the 
rates 10-21 


XVI  CAKES  AND  ALE 

CHAPTER   III 

BREAKFAST   [continued) 

Bonnie  Scotland — Parritch  an'  cream — Fin'an  haddies — A  knife 
on  the  ocean  wave — A  la  Francois — In  the  gorgeous  East — 
Cbota  ha%rt — English  as  she  is  spoke — Dak  bungalow  fare — 
Some  quaint  dishes — Breakfast  with  "  my  tutor  " — A  Don's 
absence  of  mind Pages  22-33 


CHAPTER  IV 

LUNCHEON 

Why  lunch? — Sir  Henry  Thompson  on  overdoing  it — The  child- 
ren's dinner — City  lunches — "Ye  Olde  Cheshyre  Cheese" 
— Doctor  Johnson — Ye  pudding — A  great  fall  in  food — A 
snipe  pudding — Skirt,  not  rumpsteak — Lancashire  hot-pot — 
A  Cape  "  brady " 34-43 

CHAPTER   V 

LUNCH  EON — ( continued) 

Shooting  luncheons — Cold  tea  and  a  crust — Clear  turtle — Such 
larks  ! — ^Jugged  duck  and  oysters — Woodcock  pie — Hunting 
luncheons — Pie  crusts — The  true  Yorkshire  pie — Race- 
course luncheons — Suggestions  to  caterers — The  "Jolly 
Sandboys  "  stew — Various  recipes — A  race-course  sandwich — 
Angels'  pie — "Suffolk  pride  " — Devilled  larks — A  light  lunch 
in  the  Himalayas        ......         44-58 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER   VI 


DINNER 

Origin — Early  dinners — The  noble  Romans — "  Vitellius  the 
Glutton  " — Origin  of  haggis — The  Saxons — Highland  hospi- 
tality— The  French  invasion — Waterloo  avenged — The  bad 
fairy  "  Ala  " — Comparisons — -The  English  cook  or  the  foreign 
food  torturer? — Plain  or  flowery — Fresh  fish  and  the  flavour 
wrapped  up — George  Augustus  Sala — Doctor  Johnson 
again Pages  59-72 


CHAPTER   VII 
DINNER  {continued) 

Imitation — Dear  Lady  Thistlebrain — Try  it  on  the  dog — 
Criminality  of  the  English  caterer — The  stove,  the  stink, 
the  steamer — Roasting  v.  baking — False  economy — Dirty 
ovens — Frills  and  fingers — Time  over  dinner — A  long- 
winded  Bishop — Corned  beef      ....         73-81 

CHAPTER  VIII 
DINNER    {continued) 

A  merry  Christmas — Bin  F — A  Nuel  banquet — Watercress— 
How  Royalty  fares — The  Tsar — Bouillabaisse — Tourr.edos — 
Bisque — Vol-au-vent — Bre  sale — Chinese  banquets — A  fixed 
bayonet — Bcmardin  Salmi — The  duck -squeezer — American 
cookery — "Borston"  beans — He  couldn't  eat  beef  82-96 
B 


xviii  CAKES  AND  ALE 

CHAPTER   IX 

DINNER   [continued) 

French  soup — A  regimental  dinner — A  city  banquet — Baksheesh — 
Aboard  ship — An  ideal  dinner — Cod's  liver — Sleeping  in  the 
kitchen — A  fr'tcandeau — Regimental  messes  —  Peter  the 
Great — ^Napoleon  the  Great — Victoria — The  Iron  Duke — 
Mushrooms — A  medical  opinion — A  North  Pole  banquet — 
Dogs  as  food — Plain  unvarnished  fare — The  Kent  Road 
cookery — More  beans  than  bacon         .         .     Pages  97-110 

CHAPTER   X 

VEGETABLES 

Use  and  abuse  of  the  potato — Its  eccentricities — Its  origin  — 
Hawkins,  not  Raleigh,  introduced  it  into  England — With  or 
without  the  "jacket"? — Don't  let  it  be  a-la-t6 — Benevol- 
ence and  large-heartedness  of  the  cabbage  family — Pease  on 
earth — Pythagoras  on  the  bean — "  Giving  him  beans  " — 
*'  Haricot  "  a  misnomer — "  Borston  "  beans — Frijoles — The 
carrot — Crecy  soup — The  Prince  of  "Wales — The  Black 
Prince  and  the  King  of  Bohemia  .         •         ,     lii-izz 

CHAPTER   XI 

VEGETABLES   [continued) 

The  brief  lives  of  the  best — A  vegetable  with  a  pedigree — 
Argenteuil — The  Elysian  Fields — The  tomato  the  emblem  of 
love — "Neeps" — Spinach — "Stomach -brush" — The  savoury 
tear-provoker — Invaluable  for  wasp-stings — Celery  merely 
cultivated  "smallage" — The  '■'- Afium'" — The  parsnip — O 
Jerusalem ! — The  golden  sunflower — How  to  get  pheasants — 
A  vegetarian  banquet — "  Swelling  wisibly  "  .      123-133 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER   XII 

CURRIES 

Different  modes  of  manufacture — The  "native"  fraud — "That 
man's  family  " — The  French  kari — A  Parsee  curry — "  The 
oyster  in  the  sauce  " — Ingredients — Malay  curry — Locusts — 
When  to  serve — What  to  curry — Prawn  curry — Dry  curry, 
champion  recipe — Rice — The  Bombay  duck     Pages  134-146 


CHAPTER   Xni 

SALADS 

Nebuchadnezzar  v.  Sydney  Smith — Salt? — No  salad-bowl- 
French  origin — Apocryphal  story  of  Francatelli — Salads  and 
salads — Water-cress  and  dirty  water — Salad-maker  born 
not  made — Lobster  salad — Lettuce,  Wipe  or  wash? — • 
Mayonnaise — Potato  salad — Tomato  ditto — Celery  ditto— 
A  memorable  ditto 147-157 


CHAPTER   XIV 

SALADS    AND    CONDIMENIS 

Roman  salad — Italian  ditto — Various  other  salads — bauce  for 
cold  mutton — Chutnine — Raw  chutnec — Horse-radish  sauce 
— Christopher  North's  sauce — How  to  serve  a  mackerel— 
Sauce  Tartare — Ditto  for  sucking  pig — Delights  of  making 
Samhal — A  new  language    .         .         .         .         ,158-169 


CAKES  AND  ALE 


CHAPTER   XV 

SUPPER 

Cleopatra's  supper — Oysters — Danger  in  the  Aden  bivalve — 
Oyster  stew — Ball  suppers — Pretty  dishes — The  Taj  Mahal — 
Aspic — Bloater  paste  and  whipped  cream — Ladies'  recipes 
— Cookery  colleges — Tripe — Smothered  in  onions — North 
Riding  fashion — An  hotel  supper — Lord  Tomnoddy  at  the 
"  Magpie  and  Stump "      ....     Pages  170-180 


CHAPTER   XVI 

SUPPER  {continued) 

Old  supper-houses — The  Early  Closing  Act — Evans's — Cremornc 
Gardens — "  The  Albion  " — Parlour  cookery — Kidneys  fried 
in  the  fire-shovel — The  true  way  to  grill  a  bone — "  Cannie 
Carle" — My  lady's  bower — Kidney  dumplings — A  Middle- 
ham  supper — Steaks  cut  from  a  colt  by  brother  to  "  Strafford" 
out  of  sister  to  "  Bird  on  the  Wing  "  .         ,         .     i8i-iqi 

CHAPTER   XVn 

"  CAMPING    OUT  " 

The  ups  and  downs  of  life — Stirring  adventures — Marching  on  to 
glory — Shooting  in  the  tropics — Pepj>er-pot — With  the 
Rajah  Sahib — Goat-sacrifices  at  breakfast  time — Simla  to 
Cashmere — Manners  and  customs  of  Thibet — Burmah — No 
place  to  get  fat  in — Insects — Voracity  of  the  natives — 
Snakes — Sport  in  the  Jungle — Loaded  for  snipe,  sure  to 
meet  tiger — ^With  the  gippos — No  baked  hedgehog — Cheap 
mi'.k  .  192-205 


CONTENTS  ^""^ 

CHAPTER   XVIII 

COMPOUND   DRINKS 

Derivation  of  punch — "  Five  " — The  "  milk  "  brand — The  best 
materials — Various  other  punches — Bischoft"  or  Bishop — 
"  Halo  "  punch — Toddy — The  toddy  tree  of  India — Flip — 
A  "  peg" — John  Collins — Out  of  the  guard-room 

Fa^es  206-218 

CHAPTER   XIX 

CUPS    AND    CORDIALS 

Five  recipes  for  claret  cup — Balaclava  cup — Orgeat — Ascot  cup — 
Stout  and  champagne — Shandy-gaff  for  millionaires — Ale 
cup — Cobblers  which  will  stick  to  the  last — Home  Ruler — 
Cherry  brandy — Sloe  gin — Home-made,  if  possible — A  new 
industry — Apricot  brandy  —  Highland  cordial  —  Bitters — 
Jumping-powder — Orange  brandy — "  Mandiagora  " — "  Sleep 
rock  thy  brain  !  " 219-231 

CHAPTER   XX 

THE    DAYLIGHT    DRINK 

Evil  effects  of  dram-drinking — The  "  Gin-crawl  " — Abstinence  in 
H.M.  service — City  manners  and  customs — Useless  to  argue 
with  the  soaker — Cocktails — Pet  names  for  drams — The 
free  lunch  system — Fancy  mixtures — Why  no  cassis  ? — Good 
advice  like  water  on  a  duck's  back      .         .         .     232-245 


xxii  CAKES  AND  ALE 

CHAPTER   XXI 

GASTRONOMY    IN    FICTION    AND    DRAMA 

Thomas  Carlyle — Thackeray — Harrison  Ainsworth — Sir  Walter 
Scott — Miss  Braddon — Marie  Corelli — F.C.Philips — Black- 
more — Charles  Dickens — Pkkivkk  reeking  with  alcohol — 
Brandy  and  oysters — Little  Dorr'it — Great  Expectatiom — 
Micawber  as  a  punch-maker — David  Cnpferficld — "  Practic- 
able "  food  on  the  stage — "Johnny"  Toole's  story  of  Tiny 
Tim  and  the  goose Pages  246-259 

CHAPTER   XXn 

RESTORATIVES 

William  of  Normandy — A  *'  head  "  wind  at  sea — Beware  the 
druggist — Pick-me-ups  of  all  sorts  and  conditions — Anchovy 
toast  for  the  invalid — A  small  bottle — Straight  talks  to 
fanatics — Total  abstinence  as  bad  as  the  other  thing — 
Moderation  in  all  matters — Wisely  and  slow — Ca>pe  diem — 
But  have  a  thought  for  the  morrow     .         .         .     260-274 


CHAPTER    I 


BREAKFAST 


"  The  day  breaks  slow,  but  e'en  must  man  break-fast." 

formal  or  informal? — An  eccentric  old  gentleman  —  The 
ancient  Britons  —  Breakfast  in  the  days  of  Good  ^ueen 
Bess — A  few  tea  statistics — *' Garraway's  "  —  Something 
about  coffee — Brandy  for  breakfast — The  evolution  of  the 
staff  of  life — Free  Trade — The  cheap  loaf,  and  no  cash  to 
buy  it. 

This  is  a  very  serious  subject.  The  first  meal 
of  the  day  has  exercised  more  influence  over 
history  than  many  people  may  be  aware  of.  It 
is  not  easy  to  preserve  an  equal  mind  or  keep  a 
stiff  upper  lip  upon  an  empty  stomach  ;  and  in- 
digestible food -stuffs  have  probably  lost  more 
battles  than  sore  feet  and  bad  ammunition.  It 
is  an  incontestable  fact  that  the  great  Napoleon 
lost  the  battles  of  Borodino  and  Leipsic  through 
eating  too  fast. 

When  good  digestion  waits  on  appetite,  great 
men  are  less  liable  to  commit  mistakes — and  a 
mistake  in  a  great  man  is  a  crime — than  when 
dyspepsia  has  marked  them  for  her  own  ;  and 
this  rule  appHes  to  all  men. 

There  should  be  no  hurry  or  formality  about 


3  CAKES  AND  ALE 

breakfast.  Your  punctual  host  and  hostess  may 
be  all  very  well  from  their  own  point  of  view  ; 
but  black  looks  and  sarcastic  welcomings  are  an 
abomination  to  the  guest  who  may  have  overslept 
himself  or  herself,  and  who  fails  to  say,  "  Good- 
morning"  just  on  the  stroke  of  nine  o'clock. 
Far  be  it  from  the  author's  wish  to  decry  the 
system  of  family  prayers,  although  the  spectacle 
of  the  full  strength  of  the  domestic  company, 
from  the  stern-featured  housekeeper,  or  the  chief 
lady's-maid  (the  housekeeper  is  frequently  too 
grand,  or  too  much  cumbered  with  other  duties 
to  attend  public  worship),  to  the  diminutive  page- 
boy, standing  all  in  a  row,  facing  the  cups  and 
saucers,  is  occasionally  more  provocative  of  mirth 
than  reverence.  But  too  much  law  and  order 
about  fast-breaking  is  to  be  deplored. 

"  I'm  not  very  punctual,  I'm  afraid.  Sir  John," 
I  once  heard  a  very  charming  lady  observe  to  her 
host,  as  she  took  her  seat  at  the  table,  exactly  ten 
minutes  after  the  line  of  menials  had  filed  out. 

"On  the  contrary.  Lady  V "  returned  the 

master  of  the  house,  with  a  cast-iron  smile,  "  you 
are  punctual  in  your  unpunctuality  ;  for  you  have 
missed  prayers  by  the  sixth  part  of  one  hour, 
every  morning  since  you  came."  Now  what 
should  be  done  to  a  host  like  that  ? 

In  the  long  ago  I  was  favoured  with  the 
acquaintance  of  an  elderly  gentleman  of  property, 
a  most  estimable,  though  eccentric,  man.  And 
he  invariably  breakfasted  with  his  hat  on.  It  did 
not  matter  if  ladies  were  present  or  not.  Down 
he  would  sit,  opposite  the  ham  and  eggs — or 
whatever   dish   it   might   chance   to  be — with  a 


BREAKFAST  3 

white  hat,  with  mourning  band  attached,  sur- 
mounting his  fine  head.  We  used  to  think  the 
presence  of  the  hat  was  owing  to  partial  baldness  ; 
but,  as  he  never  wore  it  at  luncheon  or  dinner, 
that  idea  was  abandoned.  In  fact,  he  pleaded  that 
the  hat  kept  his  thoughts  in  ;  and  as  after  break- 
fast he  was  closeted  with  his  steward,  or  agent, 
or  stud-groom,  or  keeper,  for  several  hours,  he 
doubtless  let  loose  some  of  those  thoughts  to  one 
or  the  other.  At  all  events  we  never  saw  him 
again  till  luncheon,  unless  there  was  any  hunt- 
ing or  shooting  to  be  done. 

This  same  old  gentleman  once  rehearsed  his 
own  funeral  on  the  carriage  drive  outside,  and 
stage-managed  the  solemn  ceremony  from  his 
study  window.  An  under-gardener  pushed  a 
wheelbarrow,  containing  a  box  of  choice  cuttings, 
to  represent  the  body  ;  and  the  butler  posed  as 
chief  mourner.  And  when  anybody  went 
wrong,  or  the  pall-bearers — six  grooms — failed  to 
keep  in  step,  the  master  would  throw  up  the 
window-sash,  and  roar — 

"  Begin  again  !  " 

But  this  is  wandering  from  the  subject.  Let 
us  try  back. 

Having  made  wide  search  amongst  old  and 
musty  manuscripts,  I  can  find  no  record  of  a 
bill-of-fare  of  the  first  meal  of  the  ancient 
Britons.  Our  blue  forefathers,  in  all  probability, 
but  seldom  assisted  at  any  such  smart  function  as 
a  wedding-breakfast,  or  even  a  hunting  one  ; 
for  the  simple  reason  that  it  was  a  case  with 
them  of,  "no  hunt,  no  breakfast."  Unless  one 
or  other  had  killed  the  deer,  or  the  wild-boar,  or 


4  CAKES  AND  ALE 

some  other  living  thing  to  furnish  the  refection 
the  feast  was  a  Barmecide  one,  and  much  as  we 
have  heard  of  the  strength  and  hardiness  of  our 
blue  forefathers,  many  of  them  must  have  died  of 
sheer  starvation.  For  they  had  no  weapons  but 
clubs,  and  rough  cut  flints,  with  which  to  kill 
the  beasts  of  the  country — who  were,  however, 
occasionally  lured  into  pitfalls  ;  and  as  to  fish, 
unless  they  "  tickled  "  them,  the  denizens  of  the 
streams  must  have  had  an  easy  time  of  it.  They 
had  sheep,  but  these  were  valuable  chiefly  on 
account  of  their  wool ;  as  used  to  be  the  case  in 
Australia,  ere  the  tinned  meat  trade  was  estab- 
lished. Most  of  the  fruits  and  vegetables  which 
we  enjoy  to-day  were  introduced  into  Britain 
by  the  Romans.  Snipe  and  woodcock  and  (in 
the  north)  grouse  may  have  been  bagged,  as  well 
as  hares.  But  these  poor  savages  knew  not 
rabbits  by  sight,  nor  indeed,  much  of  the  feathered 
fowl  which  their  more  favoured  descendants  are 
in  the  habit  of  shooting,  or  otherwise  destroying, 
for  food.  The  ancient  Britons  knew  not  bacon 
and  eggs,  nor  the  toothsome  kipper,  nor  yet  the 
marmalade  of  Dundee.  As  for  bread,  it  was  not 
invented  in  any  shape  or  form  until  much  later ; 
and  its  primitive  state  was  a  tough  paste  of  flour, 
water,  and  (occasionally)  milk — something  like 
the  "  damper "  of  the  Australian  bush,  or  the 
unleavened  chupati  which  the  poorer  classes  in 
Hindustan  put  up  with,  after  baking  it,  at  the 
present  day. 

The  hardy,  independent  Saxon,  had  a  much 
better  time  of  it,  in  the  way  of  meat  and  drink. 
But  with  supper  forming  the  chief  meal  of  the 


BREAKFAST  5 

day,  his  breakfast  was  a  simple,  though  plentiful 
one,  and  consisted  chiefly  of  venison  pasty  and 
the  flesh  of  goats,  washed  down  with  ale,  or 
mead. 

"A  free  breakfast-table  of  Elizabeth's  time," 
says  an  old  authority,  "or  even  during  the  more 
recent  reign  of  Charles  II.,  would  contrast  oddly 
with  our  modern  morning  meal.  There  were 
meats,  hot  and  cold  j  beef  and  brawn,  and  boar's 
head,  the  venison  pasty,  and  the 

Wardon  Pie 

of  west  country  pears.  There  was  hot  bread, 
too,  and  sundry  '  cates '  which  would  now  be 
strange  to  our  eyes.  But  to  wash  down  these 
substantial  viands  there  was  little  save  ale.  The 
most  delicate  lady  could  procure  no  more  suitable 
beverage  than  the  blood  of  John  Barleycorn. 
The  most  fretful  invalid  had  to  be  content 
with  a  mug  of  small  beer,  stirred  up  with  a  sprig 
of  rosemary.  Wine,  hippocras,  and  methegHn 
were  potations  for  supper-time,  not  for  breakfast, 
and  beer  reigned  supreme.  None  but  home  pro- 
ductions figured  on  the  board  of  our  ancestors. 
Not  for  them  were  seas  traversed,  or  tropical 
shores  visited,  as  for  us.  Yemen  and  Ceylon, 
Assam  and  Cathay,  Cuba  and  Peru,  did  not  send 
daily  tribute  to  their  tables,  and  the  very  names 
of  tea  and  coffee,  of  cocoa  and  chocolate,  were 
to  them  unknown.  The  dethronement  of  ale, 
subsequent  on  the  introduction  of  these  eastern 
products,  is  one  of^he  most  marked  events  which 
have  severed  the  social  life  of  the  present  day  from 
that  of  the  past." 


6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

With  the  exception  of  the  Warden  pie  and 
the  "  cates,"  the  above  bill-of-fare  would  probably 
satisfy  the  cravings  of  the  ordinary  "Johnny"  of 
to-day,  who  has  heard  the  chimes  at  midnight, 
and  would  sooner  face  a  charging  tiger  than 
drink  tea  or  coffee  with  his  first  meal,  which, 
alas  !  but  too  often  consists  of  a  hot -pickle 
sandwich  and  a  "brandy  and  soda,"  with  not 
quite  all  the  soda  in.  But  just  imagine  the  fine 
lady  of  to-day  with  a  large  tankard  of  Burton 
ale  facing  her  at  the  breakfast- table, 

which  is  said  to  have  been  introduced  into  China 
by  Djarma,  a  native  of  India,  about  a.d.  500, 
was  not  familiar  in  Europe  until  the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  century.  And  it  was  not  until  1657, 
when  Garraway  opened  a  tea-house  in  Exchange 
Alley,  that  Londoners  began  tea-drinking  as  an 
experiment.     In  1662  Pepys  writes  — 

"  Home,  and  there  find  my  wife  making  of 
tea" — two  years  before,  he  called  it  "tee  (a 
China  drink)" — "a  drink  which  Mr.  Felling  the 
Pothicary  tells  her  is  good  for  her  cold  and 
defluxions." 

In  1740  the  price  of  tea  ranged  from  7s.  to 
24s.  per  lb.  In  1725,  370,323  lbs.  were  drunk 
in  England,  and  in  1890,  194,008,000.  In 
1840  the  duty  was  2s.  2\d.  per  lb.;  in  1858 
IS.  5d.  per  lb.  ;  and  in  1890  4d.  per  lb. 

I 'he  seed  of 

The  Coffee-Tree^ 
which,  when   roasted,  ground,  and  mixed   with 
water,  and  unmixed  with  horse-beans,  dandelion- 


BREAKFAST  7 

root,  or  road-scrapings,  forms  a  most  agreeable 
beverage  to  those  who  can  digest  it,  was  not 
known  to  the  Greeks  or  Romans,  but  has  been 
used  in  Abyssinia  and  along  the  north-east  coast 
of  Africa  almost  as  long  as  those  parts  have  been 
populated.  Here,  in  merry  England,  where 
cofFee  was  not  introduced  until  the  eighteenth 
century,  it  was  at  first  used  but  sparingly,  untii 
it  almost  entirely  took  the  place  of  chocolate, 
which  was  the  favoured  beverage  of  the  duchesses 
and  fine  madams  who  minced  and  flirted,  and 
plotted,  during  the  reign  of  the  Merry  Monarch, 
fifty  years  or  so  before.  The  march  of  know- 
ledge has  taught  the  thrifty  housewife  of  to-day 
to  roast  her  own  cofFee,  instead  of  purchasing  it 
in  that  form  from  the  retail  shopkeeper,  who,  as 
a  rule,  under-roasts  the  berry,  in  order  to  "  keep 
the  weight  in."  But  do  not  blame  him  too 
freely,  for  he  is  occasionally  a  Poor  Law  Guardian, 
and  has  to  "  keep  pace  with  the  Stores." 

During  the  Georgian  era,  the  hard-drinking 
epoch,  breakfast  far  too  often  consisted  chiefly 
of  French  brandy  ;  and  the  first  meal  was,  in 
consequence,  not  altogether  a  happy  or  whole- 
some one,  nor  conducive  to  the  close  study  of 
serious  subjects. 

The  history  of 

The  Staff  of  Life^ 

would  require  a  much  larger  volume  than  this, 
all  to  itself.  That  the  evolution  of  bread-making 
has  been  very  gradual  admits  of  no  denial ;  and 

^  It  is  incorrect  to  speak  of  bread  as  the  sole  "  staff  of  life." 
Eggs,  milk,  cheese,  potatoes,  and  some  other  vegetables,  supply 


8  CAKES  AND  ALE 

as  late  as  the  Tudor  and  Stuart  periods  the  art 
was  still  in  its  infancy.  The  quality  of  the 
bread  consumed  was  a  test  of  social  standing. 
Thus,  whilst  the  haut  monde^  the  height  of 
society,  lords  and  dukes,  with  countesses  and 
dames  of  high  degree,  were  in  the  habit  of 
consuming  delicate  manchets,  made  of  the  finest 
wheaten  flour,  of  snowy  purity,  the  middle  classes 
had  to  content  themselves  with  white  loaves  of 
inferior  quality.  To  the  journeyman  and  the 
'prentice  (who  had  to  endure,  with  patience,  the 
buffets  of  master  and  mistress)  was  meted  out 
coarse  but  wholesome  brown  bread,  made  from 
an  admixture  of  wheat  and  barley  flour  ;  whilst 
the  agricultural  labourer  staved  off  starvation 
with  loaves  made  from  rye,  occasionally  mixed 
with  red  wheat  or  barley.     The  introduction  of 

Free  Trade 

— by  no  means  an  unmixed  blessing — has  changed 
all  this ;  and  the  working-classes,  with  their  wives 
and  families,  can,  when  out  of  the  workhouse,  in 
the  intervals  between  "strikes,"  enjoy  the  same 
quality  of  bread,  that  "  cheap  loaf  "  which  appears 
on  the  table  of  the  wicked  squire  and  the  all- 
devouring  parson.  In  Yorkshire,  at  the  present  day, 
almost  the  worst  thing  that  can  be  urged  against 
a  woman  is  that  she  "  canna  mak'  a  bit  o'  bread." 
"Just  look,"  wrote  an  enthusiastic  Free  Trader, 
a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,"  at  the  immense  change 

between  them  far  more  phosphoric  acid  than  is  to  be  got  from 
bread,  either  white  or  brown.  And  a  man  could  support 
existence  on  "  beer  and  baccy  "  as  well  as  he  could  do  so  on  bread 
alone. 


BREAKFAST  9 

that  has  latterly  taken  place  in  the  food  of  the 
English  peasantry.  Rye  bread  and  pease-pudding 
exchanged  for  wheaten  loaves.  A  startling 
change,  but  not  greatly  different  from  what  has 
occurred  in  France,  where,  with  the  abuses  of 
the  Bourbon  rule,  an  end  was  put  to  the  semi- 
starvation  of  French  tillers  of  the  soil.  Black 
bread  is  now  almost  as  much  a  rarity  in  France 
as  on  our  side  of  the  Channel ;  while  barley  in 
Wales,  oats  in  Scotland,  and  the  potato  in  Ireland, 
are  no  longer  the  food-staples  that  they  were." 

I  have  no  wish  for  anything  of  a  contentious 
nature  to  appear  in  this  volume  ;  but  may  deliver, 
with  regard  to  the  above,  the  opmion  that  pease- 
pudding  is  by  no  means  despicable  fare,  when 
associated  with  a  boiled  leg  of  pork  ;  and  I  may 
add  that  too  many  of  the  English  peasantry, 
nowadays,  have  been  reduced,  by  this  same  Free 
Trade,  to  a  diet  of  no  bread  at  all,  in  place  of 
wheaten,  or  any  other  loaves. 

Wedding  breakfasts,  with  the  formal  speeches, 
and  cutting  of  the  cake,  have  gone  out  of  fashion, 
and  the  subject  of  the  British  breakfast  of  to-day 
demands  a  new  chapter. 


CHAPTER   II 

BREAKFAST  [continued) 

"Sit  down  and  feed,  and  welcome  to  our  table." 

Country-house  life — An  Englishwoman  at  her  best  —  Guests' 
comforts — What  to  eat  at  the  first  meal — A  few  choice 
recipes — A  noble  grill-sauce — The  poor  outcast — Appetising 
dishes — Hotel  "worries" — The  old  regime  and  the  new — 
"No  cheques";  no  soles,  and  "whitings  is  hoft" — A 
halibut  steak — Skilly  and  oakum  —  Breakfast  out  of  the 
rates. 

By  far  the  pleasantest  meal  of  the  day  at  a  large 
country-house  is  breakfast.  You  will  be  staying 
there,  most  likely,  an  you  be  a  man,  for  hunting 
or  shooting — it  being  one  of  the  eccentric  dis- 
pensations of  the  great  goddess  Fashion  that 
country-houses  should  be  guestless,  and  often 
ownerless,  during  that  season  of  the  year  when 
nature  looks  at  her  loveliest.  An  you  be  a 
woman,  you  will  be  staying  there  for  the  especial 
benefit  of  your  daughter  ;  for  flirting — or  for 
the  more  serious  purpose  of  riveting  the  fetters 
of  the  fervid  youth  who  may  have  been  taken 
captive  during  the  London  season — for  romping, 
and  probably  shooting  and  hunting,  too  ;  for  lovely 


BREAKFAST  ii 

woman  up-to-date  takes  but  little  account  of  such 
frivolities  as  Berlin  wool-work,  piano-practice, 
or  drives,  well  wrapped-up,  in  a  close  carriage, 
to  pay  calls  with  her  hostess.  As  for  going  out 
with  the  "  guns,"  or  meeting  the  sterner  sex  at 
luncheon  in  the  keeper's  cottage,  or  the  specially- 
erected  pavi'.ion,  the  darlings  are  not  content, 
nowadays,  unless  they  can  use  dapper  little 
breechloaders,  specially  made  for  them,  and  some 
of  them  are  far  from  bad  shots. 

Yes,  'tis  a  pleasant  function,  breakfast  at  the 
Castle,  the  Park,  or  the  Grange.  But,  as  observed 
in  the  last  chapter,  there  must  be  no  undue 
punctuality,  no  black  looks  at  late  arrivals,  no 
sarcastic  allusions  to  late  hours,  nor  inane  chafF 
from  the  other  guests  about  the  wine  cup  or  the 
whisky  cup,  which  may  have  been  drained  in  the 
smoking-room,  during  the  small  hours. 

Her  ladyship  looks  divine,  or  at  all  events 
regal,  as  she  presides  at  what  our  American 
cousins  would  call  the  "  business  end "  of  the 
long  table,  whilst  our  host,  a  healthy,  jolly- 
looking,  "hard-bitten"  man  of  fifty,  faces  her. 
His  bright  keen  eye  denotes  the  sportsman,  and 
he  can  shoot  as  straight  as  ever,  whilst  no  fence 
is  too  high,  too  wide,  nor  too  deep  for  him. 
Sprinkled  about,  at  either  side  of  the  table, 
amongst  the  red  and  black  coats,  or  shooting 
jackets  of  varied  hues — with  a  vacancy  here  and 
there,  for  «  Algie  "  and  «  Bill,"  and  the  "  Angel," 
who  have  not  yet  put  in  appearance  —  arc 
smart,  fresh-looking  women,  young,  and  "well- 
preserved,"  and  matronly,  some  in  tailor-made 
frocks,  and  some  in  the  silks  and  velvets  suited 
c 


1*  CAKES  AND  ALE 

for  those  of  riper  age,  and  some  in  exquisitely- 
fitting  habits.  It  is  at  the  breakfast-table  that  the 
Englishwoman  can  defy  all  foreign  competition  ; 
and  you  are  inclined  to  frown,  or  even  say  things 
under  your  breath,  when  that  mincing,  wicked- 
looking  little  Marquise^  all  frills,  and  ribbons, 
and  lace,  and  smiles,  and  Ess  Bouquet,  in  the 
latest  creation  of  the  first  man-milliner  of  Paris, 
trips  into  the  room  in  slippers  two  sizes  too 
small  for  her,  and  salutes  the  company  at  large  in 
broken  English.  For  the  contrast  is  somewhat 
trying,  and  you  wonder  why  on  earth  some 
women  will  smother  themselves  with  scents  and 
cosmetiques^  and  raddle  their  cheeks  and  wear 
diamonds  so  early  in  the  morning  ;  and  you  lose 
all  sense  of  the  undoubted  fascination  of  the 
Marquise  in  speculating  as  to  what  manner  of 
"  strong  woman  "  her  femme  de  chamhre  must  be 
who  can  compress  a  22-inch  waist  into  an  18- 
inch  corset. 

There  should,  of  course,  be  separate  tea  and 
coffee  equipments  for  most  of  the  guests — at  all 
events  for  the  sluggards.  The  massive  silver 
urn  certainly  lends  a  tone  to  the  breakfast-table, 
and  looks  "comfortable-like."  But  it  would  be 
criminally  cruel  to  satisfy  the  thirst  of  the  multi- 
tude out  of  the  same  tea-pot  or  cofFee-pot ;  and 
the  sluggard  will  not  love  his  hostess  if  she  pours 
forth  "husband*s  tea,"  merely  because  he  is  a 
sluggard.  And  remember  that  the  hand  which 
has  held  two  by  honours,  or  a  "  straight  flush  " 
the  night  before,  is  occasionally  too  shaky  to  pass 
tea-cups.  No.  Do  not  spare  your  servants,  my 
lord,  or  my  lady.     Your  guests  must  be  "well 


BREAKFAST  13 

done,"  or  they  will  miss  your  "  rocketing " 
pheasants,  or  fail  to  go  fast  enough  at  that  brook 
with  the  rotten  banks. 

"  The  English,"  said  an  eminent  alien,  "  have 
only  one  sauce."  This  is  a  scandalous  libel  -,  but 
as  it  was  said  a  long  time  ago  it  doesn't  matter. 
It  would  be  much  truer  to  say  that  the  English 
have  only  one  breakfast-dish,  and  its  name  is 

Eggs  and  Bacon. 

Pardon,  I  should  have  written  two ;  and  the 
second  is  ham  and  eggs.  A  new-laid  egg — 
poached,  not  fried,  an  ye  love  me,  O  Betsy,  best 
of  cooks — and  a  rasher  of  home-cured  hog  are 
both  excellent  things  in  their  way  ;  but,  like  a 
partridge,  a  mother-in-law,  and  a  baby,  it  is  quite 
possible  to  have  too  much  of  them.  The 
English  hostess — I  do  not  refer  to  the  typical 
''her  ladyship,"  of  whom  I  have  written  above, 
but  to  the  average  hostess — certainly  launches 
out  occasionally  in  the  direction  of  assorted  fish, 
kidneys,  sausages,  and  chops,  but  the  staple  food 
upon  which  we  are  asked  to  break  our  fast  is, 
undoubtedly,  eggs  and  bacon. 

The  great  question  of  what  to  eat  at  the  first 
meal  depends  greatly  upon  whether  you  sit  down 
to  it  directly  you  emerge  from  your  bedroom,  or 
whether  you  have  indulged  in  any  sort  of  exercise 
in  the  interim.  After  two  or  three  hours 
"amateur  touting"  on  such  a  place  as  New- 
market Heath,  the  sportsman  is  ready  for  any 
sort  of  food,  from  a  dish  of  liver  and  bacon  to  a 
good,  thick  fat  chop,  or  an  underdone  steak.  I 
have  even  attacked  cold  stewed  eels  (!)  upon  an 


14.  CAKES  AND  ALE 

occasion  when  the  pangs  of  hunger  would  have 
justified  my  eating  the  tom-cat,  and  the  land- 
lady as  well.  But  chops  and  steaks  are  not  to  be 
commended  to  furnish  forth  the  ordinary  break- 
fast-table. I  am  coming  to  the  hotel  breakfast 
presently,  so  will  say  nothing  about  fried  fish 
just  yet.  But  here  follows  a  list  of  a  few  of  what 
may  be  called 

Allmjuahle  Breakfast  Dishes 

Mushrooms  (done  plainly  in  front  of  the  fire), 
sausages  (toasted),  scrambled  eggs  on  toast, 
curried  eggs,  fish  balls,  kidneys,  savoury  omelette. 
Porridge  may  be  useful  for  growing  boys  and 
briefless  barristers,  but  this  chapter  is  not  written 
solely  in  their  interests.  Above  all,  do  not,  oh  ! 
do  not,  forget  the  grill,  or  broil.  This  should  be 
the  feature  of  the  breakfast.  Such  simple  recipes 
as  those  for  the  manufacture  of  fish  balls  or 
omelettes  or  curried  eggs — though  I  shall  have 
plenty  to  say  about  curries  later  on — need  not  be 
given  here  ;  but  the  following,  for  a  grill-sauce, 
will  be  found  invaluable,  especially  for  the 
"  sluggard." 

Gubhins  Sauce 

The  legs  and  wings  of  fowl,  turkey,  pheasant, 
partridge,  or  moor-hen  should  only  be  used.  Have 
these  scored  across  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  divided 
at  the  joints.  And  when  your  grill  is  taken,  "  hot 
as  hot,"  but  not  hurnt,  from  the  fire,  have  poured 
over  it  the  following  sauce.  Be  very  particular 
that  your  cook  pours  it  over  the  grill  just  before  it 
is  served  up.  And  it  is  of  the  most  vital  importance 
that  the  sauce  should  be  made,  and  well  mixed,  on 


BREAKFAST  15 

a  plate  over  hot  water — for  instance,  a  slop-basin 
should  be  filled  with  boiling  water  and  a  plate 
placed  atop. 

Melt  on  the  plate  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  walnut.  Stir  into  it,  when  melted,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  made  mustard,  then  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  vinegar,  half  that  quantity  of  tarragon  vinegar, 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  cream — Devonshire  or 
English.  Season  with  salt,  black  pepper,  and 
cayenne,  according  to  the  (presumed)  tastes  and 
requirements  of  the  breakfasters. 

Let  your  sideboard — it  is  assumed  that  you 
have  a  sideboard — sigh  and  lament  its  hard  lot, 
under  its  load  of  cold  joints,  game,  and  pies, 
— I  am  still  harping  on  the  country-house  ;  and 
if  you  have  a  York  ham  in  cut,  it  should  be 
flanked  by  a  Westphalian  ditto.  For  the  blend 
is  a  good  one.  And  remember  that  no  York 
ham  under  2olb.  in  weight  is  worth  cutting. 
You  need  not  put  it  all  on  the  board  at  once. 
A  capital  adjunct  to  the  breakfast-table,  too,  is  a 
reindeer's  tongue,  which,  as  you  see  it  hung  up  in 
the  shops,  looks  more  like  a  policeman's  truncheon 
in  active  employment  than  anything  else ;  but 
when  well  soaked  and  then  properly  treated  in 
the  boiling,  is  very  tasty,  and  will  melt  like 
marrow  in  the  mouth. 

A  simple,  excellent  August  breakfast  can  be 
made  from  a  dish  of  freshly-caught  trout,  the  legs 
and  back  of  a  cold  grouse,  which  has  been  roasted, 
not  baked,  and 

A  Large  Peach, 

But   what  of  the   wretched   bachelor,   as    he 


i6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

enters  his  one  sitting-room,  in  his  humble  lodg- 
ing ?  He  may  have  heard  the  chimes  at  mid- 
night, in  some  gay  and  festive  quarter,  or,  like 
some  other  wretched  bachelors,  he  may  have 
been  engaged  in  the  composition  of  romances 
for  some  exacting  editor,  until  the  smallish 
hours.  Poor  outcast  !  what  sort  of  appetite  will 
he  have  for  the  rusty  rasher,  or  the  shop  egg,  the 
smoked  haddock,  or  the  "  Billingsgate  pheasant," 
which  his  landlady  will  presently  send  up,  to- 
gether with  her  little  account,  for  his  refection  ? 
Well,  here  is  a  much  more  tasty  dish  than  any 
of  the  above ;  and  if  he  be  "square"  with  Mrs. 
Bangham,  that  lady  will  possibly  not  object  to 
her  "gal"  cooking  the  different  ingredients 
before  she  starts  at  the  wash-tub.  But  let  not 
the  wretched  bachelor  suffer  the  "gal"  to  mix 
them. 

I  first  met  this  dish  in  Calcutta  during  the 
two  months  of  (alleged)  cold  weather  which 
prevail  during  the  year. 

Calcutta  Jumble. 

A  few  fried  fillets  of  white  fish  (sole,  or  plaice — 
sole  for  choice),  placed  on  the  top  of  some  boiled 
rice,  in  a  soup  plate.  Pour  over  them  the  yolks  of 
two  boiled  eggs,  and  mix  in  one  green  chili,  chopped 
fine.     Salt  to  taste. 

"  Another  way  :  " 

Mix  with  the  rice  the  following  ingredients  : — 

The  yolks  of  two  r/jzv  eggs,  one  table-spoonful 

anchovy  sauce,  one  small  teaspoonful  curry  powder 

(raw),  a  sprinkling  of  cayenne,  a  little  salt,  and  one 

green   chili   chopped   fine.     Each   ingredient   to   be 


BREAKFAST  17 

added  separately,  and  the  eggs  and  curry  powder  to 
be  stirred  into  the  rice  with  a  fork.  Fillets  of  sole 
to  be  served  atop. 

How  many  cooks  in  this  England  of  ours  can 
cook  rice  properly  ?  Without  pausing  for  a 
reply,  I  append  the  recipe,  which  should  be 
pasted  on  the  wall  of  every  kitchen.  The  many 
cookery  books  which  I  have  read  give  elaborate 
directions  for  the  performance  of  what  is  a  very 
simple  duty.     Here  it  is,  in  a  few  lines — 

To  cook  Rice  for  Curry ^  etc. 
Soak  a  sufficiency  of  rice  in  cold  water  for  two 
hours.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  and  pop  the  rice  into 
boiling  water.  Let  it  boil — "  gallop  "  is,  I  believe, 
the  word  used  in  most  kitchens — for  not  quite  ten 
minutes  (or  until  the  rice  is  tender),  then  strain  oiF 
the  water  through  a  sieve,  and  dash  a  little  cold 
water  over  the  rice,  to  separate  the  grains. 

Here  is  another  most  appetising  breakfast 
dish  for  the  springtime — 

Asparagus  with  Eggs. 
Cut  up  two  dozen  (or  so)  heads  of  cooked 
asparagus  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  in  a  stewpan 
with  the  well -beaten  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs. 
Flavour  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  freely.  Add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  (one  of  these 
should  be  kept  in  every  kitchen  as  a  pattern),  and 
keep  on  stirring  for  a  couple  of  minutes  or  so. 
Serve  on  delicately-toasted  bread. 

Jn  Hotel  Breakfast, 
What  memories  do  these  words  conjure  up  of 
a  snug  coffee-room,  hung  with  hunting  prints. 


iS  CAKES  AND  ALE 

and  portraits  of  Derby  winners,  and  churches, 
and  well-hung  game ;  with  its  oak  panellings, 
easy  arm-chairs,  blazing  fire,  snowy  naperies, 
and  bright  silver.  The  cheery  host,  with  well- 
lined  paunch,  and  fat,  wheezy  voice,  which 
wishes  you  good-morning,  and  hopes  you  have 
passed  a  comfortable  night  between  the  lavender- 
scented  sheets.  The  fatherly  interest  which 
"  William,"  the  grey  -  headed  waiter,  takes  in 
you — stranger  or  habitue — and  the  more  than 
fatherly  interest  which  you  take  in  the  good 
cheer,  from  home-made  "  sassingers  "  to  new-laid 
eggs,  and  heather  honey,  not  forgetting  a  slice 
out  of  the  mammoth  York  ham,  beneath  whose 
weight  the  old  sideboard  absolutely  grunts. 

Heigho  !  we,  or  they,  have  changed  all  that. 
The  poet  who  found  his  "  warmest  welcome  in 
an  inn  "  was,  naturally  enough,  writing  of  his 
own  time.  I  don't  like  fault-finding,  but  must 
needs  declare  that  the  "warmest"  part  of  an 
inn  welcome  to  be  found  nowadays  is  the  bill. 
As  long  as  you  pay  it  (or  have  plenty  of  luggage 
to  leave  behind  in  default),  and  make  yourself 
agreeable  to  the  fair  and  haughty  bookkeeper 
(if  it's  a  "she")  who  allots  you  your  bedroom, 
and  bullies  the  pageboy,  nobody  in  the  modern 
inn  cares  particularly  what  becomes  of  you.  You 
lose  your  individuality,  and  become  "  Number 
325."  Instead  of  welcome,  distrust  lurks,  large, 
on  the  very  threshold. 

"iVd?  Cheques  Accepted^' 

is  frequently  the  first  announcement  to  catch  the 
eye  of  the  incoming  guest  j  and  although  you 


BREAKFAST  19 

cannot  help  admiring  the  marble  pillars,  the  oak 
carving,  the  gilding,  the  mirrors,  and  the  electric 
light,  an  uncomfortable  feeling  comes  over  you 
at  meal  times,  to  the  effect  that  the  cost  of  the 
decorations,  or  much  of  it,  is  taken  out  of  the 
food. 

"  Waiter,"  you  ask,  as  soon  as  your  eyes  and 
ears  get  accustomed  to  the  incessant  bustle  of 
the  cofFee-room,  and  your  nostrils  to  the  savour 
of  last  night's  soup,  "  vi^hat  can  I  have  for 
breakfast  ? " 

"What  would  you  like,  sir  ?  " 

"I  should  Hke  a  grilled  sole,  to  begin  w^ith.** 

"  Very  sorry,  sir,  soles  is  hofF — get  you  a  nice 
chop  or  steak." 

"Can't  manage  either  so  early  in  the  day. 
Got  any  w^hitings  ?  " 

"Afraid  we're  out  of  whitings,  sir,  but  I'll 
see." 

Eventually,  after  suggesting  sundry  delicacies, 
all  of  which  are  either  "hoflF,"  or  unknown  to 
the  waiter,  you  settle  down  to  the  consumption 
of  two  fried  and  shrivelled  shop  eggs,  on  an 
island  of  Chicago  ham,  floating  in  an  iEgean  Sea 
of  grease  and  hot  water  ;  whilst  a  half  quartern 
loaf,  a  cruet-stand  the  size  of  a  cathedral,  a 
rackful  of  toast  of  the  "  Zebra  "  brand,  and  about 
two  gallons  of  (alleged)  coffee,  are  dumped  down 
in  succession  in  front  of  you. 

There  are,  of  course,  some  hostelries  where 
they  "do"  you  better  than  this,  but  my  ex- 
perience of  hotel  breakfasts  at  this  end  of  the 
nineteenth  century  has  not  been  encouraging, 
either  to  appetite  or  temper  ;  and  I  do  vow  and 


ao  CAKES  AND  ALE 

protest  that  the  above  picture  is  not  too  highly 
coloured. 

The  toothsome,  necessary  bloater  is  not  often 
to  be  met  with  on  the  hotel's  bill-of-fare  j  but, 
if  soft  roed — use  no  other — it  will  repay  perusal. 
Toast  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  in  front  of  a  clear  fire, 
and  just  before  done  split  it  up  the  back,  and  put 
a  piece  of  butter  on  it.  The  roe  should  be  well 
plumped,  and  of  the  consistency  of  Devonshire 
cream.  A  grilled  sole  for  breakfast  is  preferable 
to  a  fried  one,  principally  because  it  is  by  no 
means  impossible  that  the  fried  sole  be  second- 
hand, or  as  the  French  call  it  rechauffe.  And 
why,  unless  directions  to  the  contrary  be  given, 
is  the  modest  whiting  invariably  placed,  tail  in 
mouth,  on  the  frying  pan  ?  A  grilled  whiting 
— assassinate  your  cook  an  she  (or  he)  scorches 
it — is  one  of  the  noblest  works  of  the  kitchen,  and 
its  exterior  should  be  of  a  golden  brown  colour. 

Do  not  forget  to  order  sausages  for  breakfast  if 
you  are  staying  at  Newmarket  ;  there  is  less 
bread  in  them  than  in  the  Metropolitan  brand. 
And  when  in  Lincoln  attempt  a 

Halibut  Steak^ 

of  which  you  may  not  have  previously  heard. 
The  halibut  should,  previous  to  grilling  or  frying 
in  salad  oil^  be  placed  on  a  shallow  dish  and 
sprinkled  with  salt.  Then  the  dish  should  be 
half  filled  with  water,  which  must  not  cover  the 
salt.  Leave  the  fish  to  soak  for  an  hour,  then 
cut  into  slices,  nearly  an  inch  thick,  without 
removing  the  skin.  Sprinkle  some  lemon  juice 
and  cayenne  over  the  steaks  before  serving. 


BREAKFAST  21 

If  you  wish  to  preserve  an  even  mind,  and  be 
at  peace  with  the  world,  a  visit  to 

The  Hotel  Parish 

is  not  to  be  recommended.  The  Irish  stew  at 
dinner  is  not  bad  in  its  way,  though  coarse,  and 
too  Hberally  endowed  with  fat.  But  the  break- 
fasts !  Boiled  oatmeal  and  water,  with  salt  in 
the  mess,  and  a  chunk  of  stale  brown  bread  to 
eat  therewith,  do  not  constitute  an  altogether 
satisfactory  meal,  the  first  thing  in  the  morning  ; 
and  it  is  hardly  calculated  to  inspire  him  with 
much  pride  in  his  work,  when  the  guest  is  placed 
subsequently  before  his  "  task  "  of  unbroken  flints 
or  tarred  rope. 


CHAPTER   III 
BREAKFAST  [continued) 

**  There's  nought  in  the  Highlands  but  syboes  and  leeks, 
And  lang-leggit  callants  gaun  wanting  the  breeks." 

Bonnie  Scotland — Parritch  an'  cream — Fin'an  baddies — A  knife 
on  the  ocean  wave — vf  la  Fran^ais — In  the  gorgeous  East 
— C/wta  kazri — English  as  she  is  spoke — Dak  bungalow  fare 
— Some  quaint  dishes  —  Breakfast  with  "my  tutor" — A 
Don's  absence  of  mind. 

For  a  "warm  welcome"  commend  me  to  Bonnie 
Scotland.  Though  hard  of  head  and  "  sae  fu*  o' 
learning  "  that  they  are  "  owre  deeficult  to  con- 
veence,  ye  ken,"  these  rugged  Caledonians  be 
tender  of  heart,  and  philanthropic  to  a  degree. 
Hech,  sirs  !  but  *tis  the  braw  time  ye'll  hae,  gin 
ye  trapese  the  Highlands,  an'  the  Lowlands  as 
well  for  the  matter  o*  that — in  search  o*  guid 
refreshment  for  body  an*  soul. 

Even  that  surly  lexicographer,  Doctor  Samuel 
Johnson  (who,  by  the  way,  claimed  the  same 
city  for  his  birthplace  as  does  the  writer),  who 
could  not  be  induced  to  recognise  the  merits  of 
Scotch   scenery,  and    preferred    Fleet    Street    to 


BREAKFAST  as 

the  Trossachs,  extolled  the  luxury  vf  a  Scotch 
breakfast  above  that  of  all  other  countiies.  And 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  who  never  enthused  much  about 
meat  and  drink,  is  responsible  in  Waverley  for 
a  passage  calculated  to  make  the  mouths  of  most 
people  w^ater  : 

"  He  found  Miss  Bradwardine  presiding  over 
the  tea  and  coffee,  the  table  loaded  with  warm 
bread,  both  of  flour,  oatmeal,  and  barley  meal,  in 
the  shape  of  loaves,  cakes,  biscuits,  and  other 
varieties,  together  with  eggs,  reindeer  ham, 
mutton  and  beef  ditto,  smoked  salmon,  and 
many  other  delicacies.  A  mess  of  oatmeal 
porridge,  flanked  by  a  silver  jug  which  held  an 
equal  mixture  of  cream  and  buttermilk,  was 
placed  for  the  Baron's  share  of  the  repast." 

"And,"  as  Mr.  Samuel  Weller  would  have 
observed,  "  a  wery  good  idea  of  a  breakfast,  too." 

A  beef-ham  sounds  like  a  "  large  order  "  for 
breakfast,  even  when  we  come  to  consider  that 
the  Scotch  "  beastie,"  in  Sir  Walter  Scott's  time, 
was  wanting  in  "  beam "  and  stature.  I  have 
seen  and  partaken  of  a  ham  cut  from  a  Yorkshire 
pig,  and  weighing  52  lbs.  j  but  even  a  Scotch 
beef- ham  must  have  topped  that  weight  con- 
siderably. Fortunately  the  sideboards  of  those 
times  were  substantial  of  build. 

Missing  from  the  above  bill-of-fare  is  the 
haddock. 

The  FirCan  Haddie^ 

a  bird  which  at  that  period  had  probably  not  been 
invented.  But  the  modern  Scottish  breakfast- 
table  is  not  properly  furnished  without  it.     The 


H  CAKES  AND  ALE 

genuine  "  Fin'an "  is  known  by  its  appetising 
savour  and  by  its  colour — a  creamy  yellow,  which 
is  totally  distinct  from  the  Vandyke  browny  hue 
of  the  haddock  which  is  creosoted  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  the  Blackfriars  Road,  London,  S.E. 
"Strip  off  the  skin,"  says  the  recipe  in  one  cookery 
book,  "and  broil  before  the  fire  or  over  a  quick 
clear  one."  Another  way — my  way^  is  not  to 
strip  off  the  skin  and  to  steam  your  baddies. 
Place  them  in  a  dish  which  has  been  previously 
heated.  Throw  boiling  water  on  them,  and 
cover  closely  with  a  plate ;  place  on  a  hot  stove, 
and  in  from  lo  to  15  minutes  the  Fin'ans  will 
be  accomplished.  Drain,  and  serve  hot  as  hot, 
buttered,  with  a  sprinkling  of  cayenne,  and,  may- 
be, a  dash  of  Worcester  sauce. 

Salmon  is  naturally  a  welcome  guest  at  the 
table  of  the  land  of  his  birth,  served  fresh  when 
in  season,  and  smoked  or  kippered  at  all  times. 

A  Salmon  Steak 

with  the  "  curd "  between  the  flakes,  placed 
within  a  coat  of  virgin-white  paper  (oiled)  and 
grilled  for  15  minutes  or  so,  is  an  excellent 
breakfast  dish.  A  fry  of  small  troutlets,  a  ditto 
of  the  deer's  interior  economy— Af^w.  When  up 
at  the  death  of  a  hunted  stag,  always  beg  or 
annex  a  portion  of  his  liver — are  also  common 
dishes  at  the  first  me^l  ^crved  by  the"gudewife"; 
and  I  once  met  a  cold  haggis  at  9.30  a.m.  But 
this,  I  rather  fancy,  was  "a  wee  bit  joke  "  at  my 
expense.  Anyhow  I  shall  have  plenty  to  say 
about  the  "  great  chieftain  o*  the  puddin'  race  " 
in  a  later  chapter. 


BREAKFAST  15 

Off  to  Gold-land! 

Those  that  go  down  to  the  sea  in  ships,  and 
can  summon  up  sufficient  presence  of  mind  to 
go  down  to  the  saloon  at  meal  times,  have  far 
from  a  bad  time  of  it.  Living  was  certainly 
better  on  the  ocean  wave  in  the  days  when  live- 
stock was  kept  on  board,  and  slaughtered  as 
required  ;  for  the  effect  of  keeping  beef,  pork, 
and  mutton  in  a  refrigerating  chamber  for  any 
length  of  time  is  to  destroy  the  flavour,  and 
to  render  beef  indistinguishable  from  the  flesh  of 
the  hog,  and  mutton  as  tasteless  as  infantine  pap. 
But  the  ship's  galley  does  its  little  utmost ;  and 
the  saloon  passenger,  on  his  way  to  the  other  side 
of  the  equator,  may  regale  himself  with  such  a 
breakfast  as  the  following,  which  is  taken  from 
the  steward's  book  of  a  vessel  belonging  to  the 
Union  Line  : — 

Porridge,  fillets  of  haddock  with  fine  herbs,  mutton 
chops  and  chip  potatoes,  savoury  omelet,  bacon  on 
toast,  minced  collops,  curry  and  rice,  fruit,  rolls, 
toast,  etc.,  tea  and  coffee. 

Cannot  my  readers  imagine  a  steward  entering 
the  state-room  of  the  voyager  who  has  succumbed 
to  the  wiles,  and  eccentricities  of  the  Bay  of 
Biscay,  with  the  observation:  "Won't  you  get 
up  to  breakfast,  sir  ? — I've  reserved  a  beautiful  fat 
chop,  with  chips,  o'  purpose  for  you,  sir." 

And  the  lot  of  the  third-class  passenger  who 
is  conveyed  from  his  native  land  to  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  for  what  Mr.  Montague  Tigg  would 
have  called  "the  ridiculous  sum  of"  ^16  :  16s., 


16  CAKES  AND  ALE 

is  no  such  hard  one,  seeing  that  he  is  allotted  a 
"  bunk  "  in  a  compact,  t'lough  comfortable  cabin, 
and  may  break  his  fast  on  the  following  substan- 
tial meal : — 

Porridge,  Yarmouth  bloaters,  potatoes,  American 
hash,  grilled  mutton,  bread  and  butter,  tea  or  coffee. 

An  American  breakfast  is  as  variegated  (and  I 
fear  I  must  add,  as  indigestible)  as  a  Scotch  one  ; 
and  included  in  the  bill  of  fare  are  as  many,  or 
more,  varieties  of  bread  and  cake  as  are  to  be 
found  in  the  land  o'  shortbread.  The  writer  has, 
in  New  York,  started  the  morning  meal  with 
oysters,  run  the  gamut  of  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl, 
and  wound  up  with  buckwheat  cakes,  which  are 
brought  on  in  relays,  buttered  and  smoking  hot, 
and  can  be  eaten  with  or  without  golden  syrup. 
Bnt^  a3  business  begins  early  in  New  York  and 
other  large  cities,  scant  attention  is  paid  to  the 
first  meal  by  the  merchant  and  the  speculator, 
who  are  wont  to  "  gallop  "  through  breakfast  and 
luncheon,  and  to  put  in  their  "  best  work "  at 
dinner. 

A  Mediterranean  Breakfast 

is  not  lacking  in  poetry  ;  and  the  jaded  denizen 
of  Malta  can  enjoy  red  mullet  (the  "woodcock 
of  the  sea "  )  freshly  taken  from  the  tideless 
ocean,  and  strawberries  in  perfection,  at  his  first 
meal,  whilst  seated,  maybe,  next  to  some  dreamy- 
eyed  hourly  who  coos  soft  nothings  into  his  ear, 
at  intervals.  The  wines  of  Italy  go  best  with 
this  sort  of  repast,  which  is  generally  eaten  with 
"  spoons." 


BREAKFAST  %-j 

In  fair  France,  breakfast,  or  the  dejeuner  a  la 
fourchette^  is  not  served  until  noon,  or  thereabouts. 
CofFee  or  chocolate,  with  fancy  bread  and  butter, 
is  on  hand  as  soon  as  you  wake  ;  and  I  have 
heard  that  for  the  roysterer  and  the  p't'it  creve 
there  be  such  liquors  as  cognac^  cura^oa^  and 
chartreuse  verte  provided  at  the  first  meal,  so 
that  nerves  can  be  strung  together  and  headaches 
alleviated  before  the  "  associated "  breakfast  at 
mid-day.  In  the  country,  at  the  chateau  of 
Monsieur  et  Madame^  the  groom-of-the-chambers, 
or  maitre  d'hotel^  as  he  is  designated,  knocks  at 
your  bedroom  door  at  about  8.30. 

"Who's  there?" 

"  Good-morning,  M^sieu.  Will  M^sieu  partake 
of  the  chocolate  or  of  the  cafi-au-lait^  or  of  the 
tea  ? " 

Upon  ordinary  occasions,  M'*steu  will  partake  of 
the  chocolat — if  he  be  of  French  extraction  ; 
whilst  the  EngHsh  visitor  will  partake  of  the 
cafe-au-latt — tea-making  in  France  being  still  in 
its  infancy.  And  if  M^sieu  has  gazed  too  long  on 
the  wine  of  the  country,  overnight,  he  will  occa- 
sionally— reprobate  that  he  is — partake  instead  of 
the  vieux  cognac^  diluted  from  the  syphon.  And 
M^steu  never  sees  his  host  or  hostess  till  the 
"  assembly  "  sounds  for  the  mid-day  meal. 

I  have  alluded,  just  above,  to  French  tea- 
making.  There  was  a  time  when  tea,  with  our 
lively  neighbours,  was  as  scarce  a  commodity  as 
snakes  in  Iceland  or  rum  punch  in  Holloway 
Castle.  Then  the  thin  end  of  the  wedge  was 
introduced,  and  the  English  visitor  was  invited  to 
partake  of  a  cup  of  what  was  called  (by  courtesy) 


tg  CAKES  AND  ALE 

M/,  which  had  been  concocted  expressly  for  her 
or  him.  And  tea  a  la  Fran^aise  used  to  be 
made  somewhat  after  this  fashion.  The  cup  was 
half- filled  with  milk,  sugar  a  discretion  being 
added.  A  little  silver  sieve  was  next  placed  over  the 
cup,  and  from  a  jug  sufficient  hot  water,  in  which 
had  been  previously  left  to  soak  some  half-dozen 
leaf-fragments  of  green  tea,  to  fill  the  cup,  was 
poured  forth.  In  fact  the  visitor  was  invited  to 
drink  a  very  nasty  compound  indeed,  something 
like  the  "wish"  tea  with  which  the  school- 
mistress used  to  regale  her  victims  —  milk  and 
water,  and  "  wish-you-may-get  "  tea  !  But  they 
have  changed  all  that  across  the  Channel,  and 
five  o'clock  tea  is  one  of  the  most  fashionable 
functions  of  the  day,  with  the  beau  monde ;  a 
favourite  invitation  of  the  society  hel/e  of  the  Jin  de 
siecle  being  :   "  Voulez-vous  fivoclocquer  avec  moi  ?  " 

The  dejeuner  usually  begins  with  a  consomme^  a 
thin,  clear,  soup,  not  quite  adapted  to  stave  ofi 
the  pangs  of  hunger  by  itself,  but  grateful  enough 
by  way  of  a  commencement.  Then  follows  an 
array  of  dishes  containing  fish  and  fowl  of  sorts, 
with  the  inevitable  cotelettes  a  la  somebody-or- 
other,  not  forgetting  an  omelette — a  mess  which 
the  French  cook  alone  knows  how  to  concoct  to 
perfection.  The  meal  is  usually  washed  down 
with  some  sort  of  claret ;  and  a  subsequent  cafe^ 
with  the  accustomed  chasse ;  whilst  the  welcome 
cigarette  is  not  "  defended,"  even  in  the  mansions 
of  the  great. 

There  is  more  than  one  way  of  making  coffee, 
that  of  the  lodging-house  "  general,"  and  of  the 
street- stall    dispenser^   during    the    small  hours, 


BREAKFAST  29 

being  amongst  the  least  commendable.  Without 
posing  as  an  infallible  manufacturer  of  the  re- 
freshing (though  indigestible,  to  many  people) 
beverage,  I  would  urge  that  it  be  made  from 
freshly-roasted  seed,  ground  just  before  wanted. 
Then  heat  the  ground  coffee  in  the  oven,  and 
place  upon  the  perforated  bottom  of  the  upper 
compartment  of  a  cafeture^  put  the  strainer  on 
It,  and  pour  in  boiling  water,  gradually.  "  The 
Duke"  in  Genevieve  de  Brabant  used  to  warble 
as  part  of  a  song  in  praise  of  tea  — 

And  'tis  also  most  important 

That  you  should  not  spare  the  tea. 

So  is  it  of  equal  importance  that  you  should 
not  spare  the  coffee.  There  are  more  elaborate 
ways  of  making  coffee  ;  but  none  that  the  writer 
has  tried  are  in  front  of  the  old  cafetiere^  if  the 
simple  directions  given  above  be  carried  out  in 
their  entirety. 

As  in  France,  sojourners  (for  their  sins)  jn 
the  burning  plains  of  Ind  have  their  first  break- 
fast, or  diota  hazri^  at  an  early  hour,  whilst  the 
breakfast  proper — usually  described  in  Lower 
Bengal,  Madras,  and  Bombay  as  "  tiffin  " — comf/S 
later  on.     For 

Chota  Hazri 

(literally  "little  breakfast")  —  which  is  scii^ed 
either  at  the  Mess-house,  the  public  Bath,  or  in 
one's  own  bungalow,  beneath  the  verandah — 
poached  eggs  on  toast  are  de  rtgueur^  whilst  I  have 
met  such  additions  as  unda  ishcamble  (scrambled 
eggs),   potato  cake,  and    (naughty,   naughty  !  ) 


30  CAKES  AND  ALE 

anchovy  toast.  Tea  or  coffee  are  always  drunk 
with  this  meal.  "  Always,"  have  I  written  ? 
Alas  !  In  my  mind's  eye  I  can  see  the  poor 
Indian  vainly  trying  to  stop  the  too-free  flow  of 
the  Belati  pant  (Hterally  "Europe  water")  by 
thrusting  a  dusky  thumb  into  the  neck  of  the 
just-opened  bottle,  and  in  my  mind's  ear  can  I 
catch  the  blasphemous  observation  of  the  subaltern 
as  he  remarks  to  his  slave  that  he  does  not  require, 
in  his  morning's  "livener,"  the  additional  flavour 
jf  Mahommedan  flesh,  and  the  "  hubble-bubble  " 
pipe,  the  tobacco  in  which  may  have  been 
stirred  by  the  same  thumb  that  morning. 

"  CoflFee  shop  "  is  a  favourite  function,  during 
the  march  of  a  regiment  in  India,  at  least  it  used 
to  be  in  the  olden  time,  before  troops  were 
conveyed  by  railway.  Dhoolies  (roughly  made 
palanquins)  laden  with  meat  and  drink  were 
sent  on  half  way,  overnight ;  and  grateful  indeed 
was  the  cup  of  tea,  or  coffee,  or  the  "  peg " 
which  was  poured  forth  for  the  weary  warrior 
who  had  been  "tramping  it"  or  in  the  saddle 
since  2  a.m.  or  some  such  unearthly  hour,  in 
order  that  the  column  might  reach  the  new 
camping-ground  before  the  sun  was  high  in  the 
heavens.  It  was  at  "coffee-shop"  that  "chaff" 
reigned  supreme,  and  speculations  as  to  what  the 
shooting  would  be  like  at  the  next  place  were 
indulged  in.  And  when  that  shooting  was  likely 
to  fake  the  form  of  long  men,  armed  with  long 
guns,  and  long  knives,  the  viands,  which  con- 
sisted for  the  most  part  of  toast,  biscuits,  poached 
eggs,  and  unda  bakum  (eggs  and  bacon),  were 
devoured  with  appetites  all  the  keener  for  the 


BREAKFAST  31 

prospect  in  view.  It  is  in  troublous  times,  be 
it  further  observed,  that  the  Hindustan  khit  \z 
seen  at  his  best.  On  the  field  of  battle  itself  I 
have  known  cofFee  and  boiled  eggs — or  even  a 
grilled  fowl — produced  by  the  fearless  and  devoted 
nokhur^  from,  apparently,  nowhere  at  all. 

At  the  Indian  breakfast  proper,  all  sorts  ot 
viands  are  consumed  j  from  the  curried  prawns 
and  Europe  provisions  (which  arrive  in  an  her- 
metically sealed  condition  per  s.s.  Nomattawot)^ 
to  the  rooster  who  heralds  your  arrival  at  the 
dak  bungalow,  with  much  crowing,  and  who 
within  half  an  hour  of  your  advent  has  been 
successively  chased  into  a  corner,  beheaded, 
plucked,  and  served  up  for  your  refection  in  a 
scorched  state.  I  have  breakfasted  off  such 
assorted  food  as  curried  locusts,  boiled  leg  of 
mutton,  fried  snipe,  Europe  sausages.  Iron  ishtoo 
(Irish  stew),  vilolif{ve2\  olives,  and  more  correctly 
a  dinner  dish),  kidney  toast — chopped  sheep s 
kidneys,  highly  seasoned  with  pepper,  lime-juice, 
and  Worcester  sauce,  very  appetising — parrot 
pie,  eggs  and  bacon,  omelette  (which  might  also 
have  been  used  to  patch  ammunition  boots  with), 
sardines,  fried  fish  (mind  the  bones  of  the  Asiatic 
fish),  bifishtake  (beef  steak),  goat  chops,  curries 
of  all  sorts,  hashed  venison,  and  roast  peafowl, 
ditto  quail,  ditto  pretty  nearly  everything  that 
flies,  cold  buffalo  hump,  grilled  sheep's  tail  (a 
bit  bilious),  hermetically -sealed  herring,  turtle 
fins,  Guava  jelly,  preserved  mango,  home-made 
cake,  and  many  other  things  which  have  escaped 
memory.  I  am  coming  to  the  "  curry  "  part  of 
the  entertainment  later  on   in   the  volume,  but 


3a  CAKES  AND  ALE 

may  remark  that  it  is  preferable  when  eaten  in 
the  middle  of  the  day.  My  own  experience  was 
that  few  people  touched  turry  when  served  in 
its  normal  place  at  dinner — as  a  course  of  itself — 
just  before  the  sweets. 

"  Breakfast  with  my  tutor  !  "  What  happy 
memories  of  boyhood  do  not  the  words  conjure 
up,  of  the  usually  stern,  unbending  preceptor 
pouring  out  the  coffee,  and  helping  the  sausages 
and  mashed  potatoes — we  always  had  what  is 
now  known  as  "  saus  and  mash  "  at  my  tutor's — 
and  the  fatherly  air  with  which  he  would  remind 
the  juvenile  glutton,  who  had  seated  himself  just 
opposite  the  apricot  jam,  and  was  improving  the 
occasion,  that  eleven  o'clock  school  would  be  in 
full  swing  in  half  an  hour,  and  that  the  brain 
•  and,  by  process  of  reasoning,  the  stomach)  could 
not  be  in  too  good  working-order  for  the  fervid 
young  student  of  Herodotus.  The  ordinary 
breakfast  of  the  "  lower  boy  "  at  Eton  used  to  be 
of  a  very  uncertain  pattern.  Indeed,  what  with 
"fagging,"  the  preparation  of  his  lord-and- 
master's  breakfast,  the  preparation  of  "  pupil- 
room  "  work,  and  agile  and  acute  scouts  ever  on 
the  alert  to  pilfer  his  roll  and  pat  of  butter,  that 
boy  was  lucky  if  he  got  any  breakfast  at  all.  If 
he  possessed  capital,  or  credit,  he  might  certainly 
stave  off  starvation  at  "  Brown's,"  with  buttered 
buns  and  pickled  salmon  ;  or  at  "  Webber's,"  or 
"the  Wall,"  with  three-cornered  jam  tarts,  or 
a  "  strawberry  mess " ;  but  Smith  minor^  and 
Jones  minimus  as  often  as  not,  went  breakfastless 
to  second  school. 

At  the  University,  breakfast  with  "  the  Head  " 


BREAKFAST  33 

or  any  other  "Don"  was  a  rather  solemn  function. 
The  table  well  and  plentifully  laid,  and  the  host 
hospitality  itself,  but  occasionally,  nay,  frequently, 
occupied  with  other  thoughts.  A  departed 
friend  used  to  tell  a  story  of  a  breakfast  of  this 
description.  He  was  shaken  warmly  by  the 
hand  by  his  host,  who  afterwards  lapsed  into 
silence.  My  friend,  to  "  force  the  running," 
ventured  on  the  observation — 

"It's  a  remarkably  fine  morning,  sir,  is  it 
not  ?  " 

No  reply  came.  In  fact,  the  great  man*s 
thoughts  were  so  preoccupied  with  Greek  roots, 
and  other  defunct  horrors,  that  he  spoke  not  a 
word  during  breakfast.  But  when,  an  hour  or 
so  afterwards,  the  time  came  for  his  guest  to  take 
leave,  the  "  Head "  shook  him  by  the  hand 
warmly  once  more,  and  remarked  abstractedly — 

"D'you  know,  Mr.  Johnson,  I  don't  think 
that  was  a  particularly  original  remark  of  yours?  " 


CHAPTER   IV 

LUNCHEON 

"  Tis  a  custom 
More  honoured  in  the  breach  than  the  observance." 

Why  lunch? — Sir  Henry  Thompson  on  overdoing  it  —  The 
children's  dinner — City  lunches — Ye  Olde  Cheshyre  Cheese 
— Doctor  Johnson — Ye  pudding — A  great  fall  in  food — 
A  snipe  pudding — Skirt,  not  rumpsteak — Lancashire  hot 
pot— A  Cape  "  brady." 

"'More  honoured  in  the  breach,'  do  you  say, 
Mr.  Author  ?  "  I  fancy  I  hear  some  reader  in- 
quire. "  Are  these  your  sentiments  ?  Do  you 
really  mean  them  ?  '*  Well,  perhaps,  they  ought 
to  be  qualified.  Unless  a  man  breakfast  very 
early,  and  dine  very  late,  he  cannot  do  himself 
much  good  by  eating  a  square  meal  at  1.30  or 
2.0  P.M.  There  can  be  no  question  but  that 
v/hilst  thousands  of  the  Heges  —  despite  soup- 
kitchens,  workhouses,  and  gaols  —  perish  of 
absolute  starvation,  as  many  of  their  more  fortu- 
nate brethren  perish,  in  the  course  of  time,  from 
gluttony,  from  falling  down  (sometimes  literally) 
and  worshipping  the  Belly-god. 


LUiNCHEON 


35 


Years  ago  Sir  Henry  Thompson  observed  to  a 
friend  of  the  writer's  : 

"  Most  men  who  seek  my  advice  are  suffering 
under  one  of  two  great  evils — eating  too  much 
good  food,  or  drinking  too  much  bad  hquor  ;  and 
occasionally  they  suffer  under  both  evils." 

"This  luncheon,"  writes  OHver  Wendell 
Holmes,  "  is  a  very  convenient  affair  ;  it  does 
not  require  any  special  dress  ;  it  is  informal  j 
and  can  be  light  or  heavy  as  one  chooses." 

The  American  —  the  male  American  at  all 
events — takes  far  more  count  of  luncheon  than 
of  breakfast. 

But  in  many  cases  luncheon  and  early  dinner 
are  synonymous  terms.  Take  the  family 
luncheon,  for  instance,  of  the  middle  classes, 
where  mother,  governess,  and  little  ones  all 
assemble  in  front  of  the  roast  and  boiled,  at  the 
principal  meal  of  the  day,  and  the  more  or  less 
snowy  tablecloth  is  duly  anointed  with  gravy 
by  "poor  baby,"  in  her  high  chair,  and  the 
youngest  but  one  is  slapped  at  intervals  by  his 
instructress,  for  using  his  knife  for  the  peas — 
at  the  risk  of  enlarging  his  mouth — or  for 
swallowing  the  stones  of  the  cherries  which 
have  been  dealt  him,  or  her,  from  the  tart. 
This  is  not  the  sort  of  meal  for  the  male  friend 
of  the  family  to  "  drop  in  "  at,  if  he  value  the 
lappels  of  his  new  frock-coat,  and  be  given  to 
blushing.  For  children  have  not  only  an  evil 
habit  of  "  pawing "  the  visitor  with  jammy 
fingers,  ^  but  occasionally  narrate  somewhat 
"  risky  "  anecdotes.  And  a  child's  ideas  of 
the    Christian    religion,    nay,  of    the    Creator 


36  CAKES  AND  ALE 

himself,  are  occasionally  more  quaint  than 
reverent. 

"Ma,  dear,"  once  lisped  a  sweet  little  thing 
of  six,  "  what  doth  God  have  for  hith  dinner  ?  " 

"S-sh-sh,  my  child!"  replied  the  horrified 
mother,  "you  must  not  ask  such  dreadful 
questions.  God  doesn't  want  any  dinner,  re- 
member that." 

"  Oh-h-h  !  "  continued  the  unabashed  and 
dissatisfied  enfant  terrible.  And,  after  a  pause, 
"  then  I  thuppose  he  hath  an  egg  with  hith  tea." 

In  a  country-house,  of  course,  but  few  of  the 
male  guests  turn  up  at  the  domestic  luncheon, 
being  otherwise  engaged  in  killing  something, 
or  in  trying  to  kill  something,  or  in  that  sport 
which  is  but  partially  understood  out  of  Great 
Britain — the  pursuit  of  an  evil-savoured  animal 
who  is  practically  worthless  to  civilisation  after 
his  capture  and  death. 

It  is  in  "the  City"  that  vile  man,  perhaps, 
puts  in  his  best  work  as  an  eater  of  luncheons. 
Some  city  men  there  be,  of  course  —  poor, 
wretched,  half-starved  clerks,  whose  state  nobody 
ever  seems  to  attempt  to  ameliorate  —  whose 
mid-day  refections  are  not  such  as  would  have 
earned  a  meed  of  commendation  from  the  late 
Vitellius,  or  from  the  late  Colonel  North.  For 
said  refections  but  seldom  consist  of  more  im- 
portant items  than  a  thick  slice  of  bread  and  a 
stale  bloater  ;  or  possibly  a  home-made  sandwich 
of  bread  and  Dutch  cheese — the  whole  washed 
down  with  a  tumbler  of  milk,  or  more  often  a 
tumbler  of  the  fluid  supplied  by  the  New  River 
Company.     During  the  winter  months  a  penny- 


LUNCHEON  37 

worth  of  roasted  chestnuts  supplies  a  filling, 
though  indigestible  meal  to  many  a  man 
whose  employer  is  swilling  turtle  at  Birch's  or 
at  the  big  house  in  Leadenhall  Street,  and 
who  is  compelled,  by  the  exigencies  of  custom, 
to  wear  a  decent  black  coat  and  some  sort  of 
tall  hat  when  on  his  way  to  and  from 
"  business." 

But  the  more  fortunate  citizens — how  do  they 
"  do  themselves  "  at  luncheon  ?  For  some  there 
is  the  cheap  soup-house,  or  the  chop-and-steak 
house  reviled  of  Dickens,  and  but  kittle  changed 
since  the  time  of  the  great  novelist.  Then,  for 
the  "  gilt-edged  "  division  there  is 

Birch's, 

the  little  green  house  which,  although  now 
"run"  by  those  eminent  caterers,  Messrs.  Ring 
and  Brymer,  is  still  known  by  the  name  of  the 
old  Alderman  who  deserved  so  well  of  his 
fellow  citizens,  and  who,  whilst  a  cordon  bleu  of 
some  celebrity,  had  also  a  pretty  taste  as  a  play- 
wright. The  old  house  has  not  changed  one 
jot,  either  in  appearance,  customs,  or  fare.  At 
the  little  counter  on  the  ground  floor  may  be 
obtained  the  same  cheesecakes,  tartlets,  baked 
custards,  and  calfVfoot  jellies  which  delighted 
our  grandfathers,  and  the  same  brand  of  Scottish 
whisky.  Upstairs,  in  the  soup-rooms,  some  of 
the  tables  are  covered  with  damask  tablecloths, 
whilst  at  others  a  small  square  of  napery  but 
partially  obscures  the  view  of  the  well-polished 
mahogany. 


ii  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Turtle  Soup 

is  still  served  on  silver  plates,  w^hilst  the  cheaper 
juices  of  the  bullock,  the  calf,  and  the  pea, 
"with  the  usual  trimmings,"  repose  temporarily 
on  china  or  earthenware.  Pates^  whether  of 
oyster,  lobster,  chicken,  or  veal-and-ham,  are  still 
in  favour  with  habitue  and  chance  customer 
alike,  and  no  wonder,  for  these  are  something 
like  pates.  The  "  filling  "  is  kept  hot  like  the 
soups,  in  huge  stewpans,  on  the  range,  and  when 
required  is  ladled  out  into  a  plate,  and  furnished 
with  top  and  bottom  crust — and  such  crust, 
flaky  and  light  to  a  degree  ;  and  how  different 
to  the  confectioner's  or  railway-refreshment  pate^ 
which,  when  an  orifice  be  made  in  the  covering 
v/ith  a  pickaxe,  reveals  nothing  more  appetising 
than  what  appear  to  be  four  small  cubes  of  frost- 
bitten indiarubber,  with  a  portion  or  two  of 
candle  end. 

A  more  advanced  meal  is  served  in  Leadenhall 
Street,  at 

«  The  Ship  and  Turtle^'' 

said  to  be  the  oldest  tavern  in  London,  and 
which  has  been  more  than  once  swept  and 
garnished,  and  reformed  altogether,  since  its 
establishment  during  the  reign  of  King  Richard 
II.  But  they  could  have  known  but  little  about 
the  superior  advantages  offered  by  the  turtle  as 
a  life-sustainer,  in  those  days  ;  whereas  at  the 
present  day  some  hundreds  of  the  succulent 
reptiles  die  the  death  on  the  premises,  within  a 
month,  in  order  that  city  companies,  and  stock- 
brokers,   and    merchants    of   sorts,    and    mining 


LUNCHEON  39 

millionaires,  and  bicycle  makers,  and  other 
estimable  people,  may  dine  and  lunch. 

Then  there  are  the  numerous  clubs,  not  for- 
getting one  almost  at  the  very  door  of  "The 
House,"  where  the  2000  odd  (some  of  them  very 
odd)  members  are  regaled  on  the  fat  of  the  land 
in  general,  and  of  the  turtle  in  particular,  day  by 
day  ;  and  that  mammoth  underground  palace  the 
"  ralmerston,"  where  any  kind  of  banquet  can  be 
served  up  at  a  few  minutes'  notice,  and  where 
"  special  Greek  dishes "  are  provided  for  the 
gamblers  in  wheat  and  other  cereals,  at  the 
adjacent  "  Baltic."  There  be  also  other  eating- 
houses,  far  too  numerous  to  mention,  but  most 
of  them  worth  a  visit. 

A  "  filling  "  sort  of  luncheon  is  a  portion  of  a 

Cheshire  Cheese  Pudding, 

A  little  way  up  a  gloomy  court  on  the  north 
side  of  Fleet  Street — a  neighbourhood  which 
reeks  of  printers'  ink,  bookmakers'  "runners," 
tipsters,  habitual  borrowers  of  small  pieces  of 
silver,  and  that  "  warm  "  smell  of  burning  paste 
and  molten  lead  which  indicates  the  "  foundry  " 
in  a  printing  works — is  situated  this  ancient 
hostelry.  It  is  claimed  for  the  "Cheese"  that 
it  was  the  tavern  most  frequented  by  Dr. 
Samuel  Johnson.  Mr.  C.  Redding,  in  his  Fifty 
Tears'  Recollections^  Literary  and  Personal,^ 
published  in  1858,  says:    "I  often  dined  at  the 

"  Cheshire  Cheese^'* 

Johnson  and  his  friends,  I  was  informed,  used  to 
do  the  same,  and  I  was  told  I  should  see  indi- 


40  CAKES  AND  ALE 

viduals  who  had  met  them  there.  This  I  found 
to  be  correct.  The  company  was  more  select 
than  in  later  times,  but  there  are  Fleet  Street 
tradesmen  who  well  remembered  both  Johnson 
and  Goldsmith  in  this  place  of  entertainment." 

Few  Americans  who  visit  our  metropolis  go 
away  without  making  a  pilgrimage  to  this  ancient 
hostelry,  where,  upstairs,  "  Doctor  Johnson's 
Chair "  is  on  view ;  and  many  visitors  carry 
away  mementoes  of  the  house,  in  the  shape  of 
pewter  measures,  the  oaken  platters  upon  which 
these  are  placed,  and  even  samples  of  the  long 
"  churchwarden  "  pipes,  smoked  by  habitues  after 
their  evening  chops  or  steaks. 

Te  Puddingy 

which  is  served  on  Wednesdays  and  Saturdays, 
at  1.30  and  6.0,  is  a  formidable-looking  object, 
and  its  savour  reaches  even  into  the  uttermost 
parts  of  Great  Grub  Street.  As  large,  more  or 
less,  as  the  dome  of  St.  Paul's,  that  pudding  is 
stuffed  with  steak,  kidney,  oysters,  mushrooms, 
and  larks.  The  irreverent  call  these  last  named 
sparrows,  but  we  know  better.  This  pudding 
takes  [on  dit)  17^  hours  in  the  boiling,  and  the 
"  bottom  crust "  would  have  delighted  the  hearts 
of  Johnson,  Boswell,  and  Co.,  in  whose  days  the 
savoury  dish  was  not.  The  writer  once  witnessed 
a  catastrophe  at  the  "  Cheshire  Cheese,"  com- 
pared to  which  the  burning  of  Moscow  or  the 
bombardment  of  Alexandria  were  mere  trifles. 
1.30  on  Saturday  afternoon  had  arrived,  and  the 
oaken  benches  in  the  refectory  were  filled  to 
repletion  with  expectant  pudding-eaters.      Bur- 


LUNCHEON  41 

gesses  of  the  City  of  London  were  there — good, 
"warm,"  round-bellied  men,  with  ploughboys' 
appetites — and  journalists,  and  advertising  agents, 
and  "  resting  "  actors,  and  magistrates'  clerks,  and 
barristers  from  the  Temple,  and  well-to-do 
tradesmen.  Sherry  and  gin  and  bitters  and  other 
adventitious  aids  (?)  to  appetite  had  been  done 
justice  to,  and  the  arrival  of  the  "procession" 
— it  takes  three  men  and  a  boy  to  carry  the  pi}ce 
de  resistance  from  the  kitchen  to  the  dining-room 
— was  anxiously  awaited.  And  then,  of  a  sudden 
we  heard  a  loud  crash  !  followed  by  a  feminine 
shriek,  and  an  unwhispered  Saxon  oath.  "  Tom" 
the  waiter  had  slipped,  released  his  hold,  and  the 
pudding  had  fallen  downstairs  !  It  was  a  sight 
ever  to  be  remembered — steak,  larks,  oysters, 
"  delicious  gravy,"  running  in  a  torrent  into 
Wine  Office  Court.  The  expectant  diners 
(many  of  them  lunchers)  stood  up  and  gazed 
upon  the  wreck  of  their  hopes,  and  then  filed, 
silently  and  sadly,  outside.  Such  a  catastrophe 
had  not  been  known  in  Brainland  since  the 
Great  Fire. 

Puddings  of  all  sorts  are,  in  fact,  favourite 
autumn  and  winter  luncheon  dishes  in  London, 
and  the  man  who  can  "  come  twice  "  at  such  a 
"  dream  "  as  the  following,  between  the  hours  of 
one  and  three,  can  hardly  be  in  devouring  trim  for 
his  evening  meal  till  very  late.     It  is  a 

Snipe  Pudding, 

A  tkin  slice  of  beef-skirt,^  seasoned  with  pepper 

*  In  most   recipes  for  puddings  or  pies,  rump  steak  is  given. 
But  this  is  a  mistake,  as  the  tendency  of  that  part  of  the  ox  is  to 


4^  CAKES  AND  ALE 

and  salt,  at  the  bottom  ot  the  basin  ;  then  three 
snipes  beheaded  and  befooted,  and  with  gizzards 
extracted.  Leave  the  liver  and  heart  in,  an  you 
value  your  life.  Cover  up  with  paste,  and  boil  (or 
steam)  for  two-and-a-half  hours.  For  stockbrokers 
and  bookmakers,  mushrooms  and  truffles  are  some- 
times placed  within  this  pudding  ;  but  it  is  better 
without — according  to  the  writer's  notion. 

Most  of  the  fowls  of  the  air  may  be  treated  in 
the  same  way.  And  when  eating  cold  grouse  for 
luncheon  try  (if  you  can  get  it)  a  fruit  salad 
therewith.  You  will  find  preserved  peaches, 
apricots,  and  cherries  in  syrup,  harmonise  well 
with  cold  brown  game. 

Lancashire  Hot- Pot 

is  a  savoury  dish  indeed  ;  but  I  know  of  but  one 
eating-house  in  London  where  you  can  get 
anything  like  it.     Here  is  the  recipe — 

Place  a  layer  of  mutton  cutlets,  with  most  of  the 
fat  and  tails  trimmed  off,  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep 
earthenware  stewpan.  Then  a  layer  of  chopped 
sheep's  kidneys,  an  onion  cut  into  thin  slices,  half- 
a-dozen  oysters,  and  some  sliced  potatoes.  Sprinkle 
over  these  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  curry  powder.  Then  start  again  with  cutlets,  and 
keep  on  adding  layers  of  the  different  ingredients  until 
the  dish  be  full.  Whole  potatoes  atop  of  all,  and 
pour  in  the  oyster  liquor  and  some  good  gravy. 
More  gravy  just  before  the  dish  is  ready  to  serve. 

harden^  when  subjected  to  the  process  of  boiling  or  baking. 
Besides  the  skirt — the  thick  skirt — there  be  tit-bits  to  be  cut  from 
around  the  shoulder. 


LUNCHEON  45 

Not  too  fierce  an  oven,  just  fierce  enough  to  brown 
the  top  potatoes. 

In  making  this  succulent  concoction  you  can 
add  to,  or  substitute  for,  the  mutton  cutlets 
pretty  nearly  any  sort  of  flesh  or  fowl.  I  have 
met  rabbit,  goose,  larks,  turkey,  and  (frequently) 
beef  therein  ;  but,  believe  me,  the  simple, 
harmless,  necessary,  toothsome  cutlet  makes  the 
best  lining. 

In  the  Cape  Colony,  and  even  as  high  up  as 
Rhodesia,  I  have  met  with  a  dish  called  a  Brady^ 
which  is  worthy  of  mention  here.  It  is  made  in 
the  same  way  as  the  familiar  Irish  stew;  but 
instead  of  potatoes  tomatoes  are  used. 


CHAPTER  V 

LUNCHEON — (continued) 

**  He  couldn't  hit  a  haystack  !  ♦* 

Shooting  luncheons — Cold  tea  and  a  crust — Clear  turtle — Such 
larks  ! — ^Jugged  duck  and  oysters — Woodcock  pie — Hunt- 
ing luncheons — Pie  crusts — The  true  Yorkshire  pie — Race- 
course luncheons — Suggestions  to  caterers — The  "Jolly 
Sand  boys  "  stew — Various  recipes — A  race-course  sandwich 
—Angels'  pie— "Suffolk  pride  "—Devilled  larks— A  light 
lunch  in  the  Himalayas. 

There  is  no  meal  which  has  become  more 
"  expanded  "  than  a  shooting  luncheon.  A  crust 
of  bread  with  cheese,  or  a  few  biscuits,  and  a 
flask  of  sherry  sufliced  for  our  forebears,  who,  de- 
spite inferior  weapons  and  ammunition,  managed 
to  "bring  'em  down  "  quite  as  effectually  as  do 
the  shootists  of  this  period.  Most  certainly  and 
decidedly,  a  heavy  luncheon  is  a  mistake  if  you 
want  to  "  shoot  clean  "  afterwards.  And  bear  this 
in  mind,  all  ye  "  Johnnies "  who  rail  at  your 
host's  champagne  and  turtle,  after  luncheon,  in  a 
comfortable  pavilion  in  the  midst  of  a  pheasant 
battue^  and  whose  very  beaters  would  turn  up 


LUNCHEON 


45 


their  noses  at  a  pork  pie  and  a  glass  of  old  ale, 
that  there  is  nothing  so  good  to  shoot  upon  as 
cold  tea,  unless  it  be  cold  cofFee.  I  have  tried 
both,  and  for  a  shooting  luncheon  par  excellence 
commend  me  to  a  crust  and  a  pint  of  cold  tea, 
eaten  whilst  sitting  beneath  the  shelter  of  an 
unpleached  hedge,  against  the  formal  spread  which 
commences  with  a  consomme^  and  finishes  with 
guinea  peaches,  and  liqueurs  of  rare  cura^oa. 
Of  course,  it  is  assumed  that  the  shooter  wishes 
to  make  a  bag. 

But  as,  fortunately  for  trade,  everybody  does 
not  share  my  views,  it  will  be  as  well  to  append 
a  few  dishes  suitable  to  a  scratch  meal  of  this  sort. 

First  of  all  let  it  be  said  that  a 

Roast  Loin  of  Pork^ 

washed  down  with  sweet  champagne,  is  not 
altogether  to  be  commended.  I  have  nothing  to 
urge  against  roast  pork,  on  ordinary  occasions,  or 
champagne  either  ;  but  a  woodcock  takes  a  lot  of 
hitting. 

Such  a  pudding  as  was  sketched  in  the 
preceding  chapter  is  allowable,  as  is  also  the 
Lancashire  Hot-Pot. 

Shepherd's  Pie^ 

i.e.  minced  meat  beneath  a  mattress  of  mashed 
potatoes,  with  lots  of  gravy  in  the  dish,  baked,  is 
an  economical  dish,  but  a  tasty  one  ;  and  I  have 
never  known  much  left  for  the  beaters.  Rabbit 
Pie,  or  Pudding,  will  stop  a  gap  most  eiFectually, 
and 


+6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Plover  Pudding 

— the  very  name  brings  water  to  the  lips — is 
entitled  to  the  highest  commendation. 

This  is  the  favourite  dish  at  the  shooting 
luncheons  of  a  u^ell- known  Royal  Duke,  and 
when  upon  one  occasion  the  discovery  was  made 
that  through  some  misunderstanding  said  pud- 
ding had  been  devoured  to  the  very  bones,  by  the 
loaders^  the — well,  "the  band  played,"  as  they 
say  out  West.  And  a  stirring  tune  did  that 
band  play  too. 

Such  Larks  / 

Stuff  a  dozen  larks  with  a  forcemeat  made  from 
their  own  livers  chopped,  a  little  shallot,  parsley, 
yolk  of  egg,  salt,  bread  crumbs,  and  one  green  chili 
chopped  and  divided  amongst  the  twelve.  Brown  in 
a  stewpan,  and  then  stew  gently  in  a  good  gravy  to 
which  has  been  added  a  glass  of  burgundy. 

This  is  a  plat  fit  for  an  emperor,  and  there  will 
be  no  subsequent  danger  of  his  hitting  a  beater 
or  a  dog.     Another  dainty  of  home  invention  is 

yugged  Duck  with  Oysters. 

Cut  the  fleshy  parts  of  your  waddler  into  neat 
joints,  and  having  browned  them  place  in  a  jar  with 
nine  oysters  and  some  good  gravy  partly  made  from 
the  giblets.  Close  the  mouth  of  the  jar,  and  stand 
it  in  boiling  water  for  rather  more  than  an  hour. 
Add  the  strained  liquor  of  the  oysters  and  a  little 
more  gravy,  and  turn  the  concoction  into  a  deep 
silver  dish  with  a  spirit  lamp  beneath.  Wild  duck 
can  be  jugged  in  the  same  way,  but  without  the 
addition  of  the  bivalves ;  and  a  mixture  of  port  wine 


LUNCHEON  47 

and  Worcester  sauce  should  be  poured  in,  with  a 
squeeze  of  lemon  juice  and  cayenne,  just  before 
serving. 

Another  dish  which  will  be  round  "grateful 
and  comforting  "  is  an  old  grouse — the  older  the 
tastier.  StufF  him  with  a  Spanish  onion,  add  a 
little  gravy  and  seasoning,  and  stew  him  till  the 
flesh  leaves  the  bones.  All  these  stews,  or 
"jugs"  should  be  served  on  dishes  kept  hot  by 
lighted  spirit  beneath  them.  This  is  most 
important. 

A  Woodcock  Pie 

will  be  found  extremely  palatable  at  any  shoot- 
ing luncheon,  although  more  freq^uently  to  be 
met  with  on  the  sideboards  of  the  great  and 
wealthy.  In  fact,  at  Christmas  time,  'tis  a  pie 
which  is  specially  concocted  in  the  royal  kitchen 
at  Windsor  Castle,  to  adorn  Her  Most  Gracious 
Majesty's  board  at  Osborne,  together  with  the 
time-honoured  baron  of  specially  fed  beef.  This 
last  named  joint  hardly  meets  my  views  as  part 
of  a  breakfast  menu;  but  here  is  the  recipe  for 
the  woodcock  pie. 

Bone  four  woodcocks — 1  don't  mean  take  them 
off  the  hooks  when  the  gentleman  is  not  in  his  shop, 
but  tell  your  cook  to  take  the  bones  out  of  one 
you've  shot  yourself — put  bones  and  trimmings  into 
a  saucepan  with  one  shallot,  one  small  onion,  and  a 
sprig  of  thyme,  cover  them  with  some  good  stock, 
and  let  this  gravy  simmer  awhile.  Take  the  giz- 
zards away  from  the  heart  and  liver,  pound,  and  mix 
these  with  some  good  veal  forcemeat.  Place  the 
woodcocks,  skin  downwards,  on  a  board  ;  spread  over 


48  CAKES  AND  ALE 

each  two  layers  of  forcemeat,  with  a  layer  of  sliced 
truffles  in  between  the  two.  Make  your  crust, 
either  in  a  mould,  or  with  the  hands,  put  a  layer  of 
forcemeat  at  the  bottom,  then  two  woodcocks,  then 
a  layer  of  truffles,  then  the  other  two  woodcocks, 
another  layer  of  truffles,  and  a  top  layer  of  force- 
meat, and  some  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon.  Cover  the 
pie,  leaving  a  hole  for  the  gravy,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  After  taking  out  pour  in  the 
gravy,  then  close  the  orifice  and  let  the  pie  get  cold 
before  serving. 

N.B. — It  will  stimulate  the  digging  industry  if  one 
or  two  whole  truffles  have  been  hidden  away  in  the 
recesses  of  the  pie. 

Another  good  pie  I  have  met  with — in  the 
north  country  —  was  lined  with  portions  of 
grouse  and  black  game  (no  bones),  with  here 
and  there  half  a  hard-boiled  egg.  Nothing  else 
except  the  necessary  seasoning. 

With  regard  to 

Hunting  Luncheons 

it  cannot  be  said  that  your  Nimrod  is  nearly  as 
well  catered  for  as  is  the  "Gun."  For,  as  a 
rule,  the  first-named,  if  he  be  really  keen  on  the 
sport  of  kings  has  to  content  himself,  during  the 
interval  of  a  "check,"  with  the  contents  of  a 
sandwich-case,  and  a  flask,  which  may  contain 
either  brown  sherry  or  brandy  and  water — or 
possibly  something  still  more  seductive.  I  have 
heard  of  flasks  which  held  milk  punch,  but  the 
experience  is  by  no  means  a  familiar  one.  If 
your  Nimrod  be  given  to  "  macadamisins;," 
instead  of  riding;  the  line,  or  if  he  sicken  of  the 


LUNCHEON  49 

business  altogether  before  hounds  throw  off,  he 
can  usually  "  cadge "  a  lunch  at  some  house  in 
the  neighbourhood,  even  though  it  may  only 
"run  to"  bread  and  cheese — or,  possibly,  a 
wedge  of  a  home-made  pork-pie  -with  a  glass, 
or  mug,  of  nut  brown  ale.  Not  that  all  ale  is 
"nut  brown,"  but  *tis  an  epithet  which  likes 
me  well.  Would  it  were  possible  to  give  practical 
hints  here  as  to  the  true  way  to  manufacture  a 
pork-pie  !  To  make  the  attempt  would,  I  fear, 
only  serve  to  invite  disaster ;  for  the  art  of 
pork-pie  making,  like  that  of  the  poet,  or  the 
playactor,  should  be  born  within  us.  In  large 
households  in  the  midland  counties  (wherein 
doth  flourish  the  pig  tart)  there  is,  as  a  rule,  but 
one  qualified  pie-maker — who  is  incapable  of  any 
other  culinary  feat  whatever.  I  have  even  been 
told  that  it  requires  "  special  hands "  to  make 
the  crust  of  the  proper  consistency  ;  and  having 
tasted  crusts  and  crusts,  I  can  impHcitly  believe 
this  statement.  Here  is  a  recipe  for  a  veritable 
savoury 

Tor k shire  Pie, 

Bone  a  goose  and  a  large  fowl.  Fill  the  latter 
with  the  following  stuffing  : — minced  ham,  veal, 
suet,  onion,  sweet  herbs,  lemon  peel,  mixed  spices, 
goose-liver,  cayenne,  and  salt,  worked  into  a  paste 
with  the  yolks  oJf  two  eggs.  Sew  up  the  fowl,  truss 
it,  and  stew  it  with  the  goose  for  twenty  minutes  in 
some  good  beef  and  giblet  stock,  with  a  small  glass 
of  sherry,  in  a  close  stewpan.  Then  put  the  fowl 
inside  the  goose,  and  place  the  goose  within  a  pic- 
mould  which  has  been  lined  with  good  hot-water 
paste.     Let  the  goose  rest  on  a  cushion  of  stuffing, 


50  CAKES  AND  ALE 

and  in  the  middle  of  the  liquor  in  which  he  has 
been  stewed.  Surround  him  in  the  pie  with  slices 
of  parboiled  tongue  and  chunks  of  semi-cooked 
pheasant,  partridge,  and  hare,  filling  in  the  vacancies 
with  more  stuffing,  put  a  layer  of  butter  atop,  roof 
in  the  pie  with  paste,  bake  for  three  hours,  and  eat 
either  hot  or  cold — the  latter  for  choice. 

For  a  skating  luncheon 

Irish  Stew 

is  the  recognised   entree^  served   in   soup-plates, 
and  washed  down  with  hot  spiced  ale. 
In  the  way  of 

Race-course  Luncheons 

our  caterers  have  made  giant  strides  in  the  last 
dozen  years.  A  member  of  a  large  firm  once 
told  me  that  it  was  "  out  of  the  question  "  to 
supply  joints,  chops,  and  steaks  in  the  dining- 
rooms  of  a  grand  stand,  distant  far  from  his  base 
of  operations,  London.  "Impossible,  my  dear 
sir !  we  couldn't  do  it  without  incurring  a 
ruinous  loss."  But  the  whirHgig  of  time  has 
proved  this  feat  to  be  not  only  possible,  but  one 
which  has  led  to  the  best  results  for  all  concerned. 
In  the  matter  of  chops  and  steaks  I  hope  to  see 
further  reforms  introduced.  These  succulent 
dainties,  it  cannot  be  too  widely  known,  are  not 
at  their  best  unless  cut  fresh  from  loin  or  rump, 
just  before  being  placed  on  the  gridiron.  The 
longer  a  cut  chop  (raw)  is  kept  the  more  of  its 
virtue  is  lost.  It  might,  possibly,  cause  a  little 
extra  delay,  and  a  little  extra  expense,  to  send 


LUNCHEON  51 

ofF  loins  and  rumps  from  the  butcher's  shop, 
instead  of  ready-cut  portions,  but  the  experiment 
would  answer,  in  the  long  run.  The  same  rule, 
of  course,  should  apply  to  restaurants  and  grill- 
rooms all  over  the  world. 

During  the  autumn  and  winter  months, 
racecourse  caterers  seem  to  have  but  one 
idea  of  warm  comforting  food  for  their 
customers,  and  the  name  of  that  idea  is  Irish 
stew.  This  is  no  doubt  an  appetising  dish, 
but  might  be  varied  occasionally  for  the 
benefit  of  the  habitual  follower  of  the  sport 
of  kings.  Why  not  pea-soup,  jugged  hare 
(hares  are  cheap  enough),  hotpot,  Scotch  broth, 
mullagatawny,  hotch-potch,  stewed  or  curried 
rabbit,  with  rice,  shepherd's  pie,  haricot  oxtails, 
sheep's  head  broth  (Scotch  fashion),  and  hare 
soup  !  What  is  the  matter  with  the  world- 
renowned  stew  of  which  we  read  in  The  Old 
Curiosity  Shop — the  supper  provided  by  the  land- 
lord of  the  "Jolly  Sandboys  "  for  the  itinerant 
showmen  ?     Here  it  is  again  : 

"  *  It's  a  stew  of  tripe,'  said  the  landlord,  smack- 
ing his  lips,  *  and  cowheel,'  smacking  them  again, 
*  and  bacon,'  smacking  them  once  more,  *  and 
steak,'  smacking  them  for  the  fourth  time,  *and 
peas,  cauliflowers,  new  potatoes,  and  sparrowgrass, 
all  working  up  together  in  one  delicious  gravy.' 
Having  come  to  the  climax,  he  smacked  his  lips  a 
great  many  times,  and  taking  a  long  hearty  sniff  of 
the  fragrance  that  was  hovering  about,  put  on  the 
cover  again  with  the  air  of  one  whose  toils  on  earth 
were  over. 

" '  At  what  time  will  it  be  ready  ? '   asked  Mr. 


5«  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Codlin  faintly.  *  It'll  be  done  to  a  turn,'  said  the 
landlord,  looking  up  at  the  clock,  *  at  twenty-two 
minutes  before  eleven.' 

"*Then,'  said  Mr.  Codlin,  'fetch  me  a  pint  of 
warm  ale,  and  don't  let  nobody  bring  into  the  room 
even  so  much  as  a  biscuit  till  the  time  arrives.' " 

And  I  do  vow  and  protest  that  the  above 
passage  has  caused  much  more  smacking  of  lips 
than  the  most  expensive,  savoury  menu  ever 
thought  out.  True,  sparrowgrass  and  new 
potatoes,  and  any  peas  but  dried  or  tinned  ones 
are  not  as  a  rule  at  their  best  in  the  same  season 
as  tripe  ;  but  why  not  dried  peas,  and  old  potatoes, 
and  rice,  and  curry  powder,  and  onions — Charles 
Dickens  forgot  the  onions — with,  maybe,  a 
modicum  of  old  ale  added,  for  "  body  " — in  this 
stew,  on  a  cold  day  at  Sandown  or  Kempton  ? 
Toujours  Irish  stew,  like  toujours  mother-in-law, 
is  apt  to  pall  upon  the  palate  ;  especially  if  not 
fresh  made.  And  frost  occasionally  interferes 
with  the  best-laid  plans  of  a  race-course  caterer. 

"  I  don't  mind  a  postponed  meeting,"  once 
observed  one  of  the  "  readiest "  of  bookmakers  ; 
"  but  what  I  cannot  stand  is  postponed  Irish  stew." 

Than  a  good  bowl  of 

Scotch  Broth^ 

what  could  be  more  grateful,  or  less  expensive  ? 

Shin  of  beef,  pearl  barley,  cabbages,  leeks,  tur- 
nips, carrots,  dried  peas  (of  course  soaked  overnight), 
and  water — "all  working  up  together  in  one  de- 
licious gravy." 

Also 


LUNCHEON  53 

Hotch  Potch, 

With  the  addition  of  cutlets  from  the  best 
end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  the  same  recipe  as  the 
above  will  serve  for  this  dish,  w^hich  it  must  be 
remembered  should  be  more  of  a  "  stodge  "  than 
a  broth. 

There  are  more  ways  than  one  of  making  a 
"  hot-pot."  The  recipe  given  above  would  hardly 
suit  the  views  of  any  caterer  who  wishes  to  make 
a  living  for  himself ;  but  it  can  be  done  on  the 
cheap.  The  old  lady  whose  dying  husband  was 
ordered  by  the  doctor  oysters  and  champagne, 
procured  whelks  and  ginger  beer  for  the  patient, 
instead,  on  the  score  of  economy.  Then  why 
not  make  your  hot-pot  with  mussels  instead  of 
oysters  ?  Or  why  add  any  sort  of  mollusc  ?  In 
the  certain  knowledge  that  these  be  invaluable 
hints  to  race-course  caterers,  I  offer  them  with  all 
consideration  and  respect. 

The  writer  well  remembers  the  time  when  the 
refreshments  on  Newmarket  Heath  at  race-time 
were  dispensed  from  a  booth,  which  stood  almost 
adjoining  the  "  Birdcage."  Said  refreshments 
were  rough,  but  satisfying,  and  consisted  of  thick 
sandwiches,  cheese,  and  bread,  with  "thumb- 
pieces  "  (or  "  thumbers  "  )  of  beef,  mutton,  and 
pork,  which  the  luncher  was  privileged  to  cut 
with  his  own  clasp-knife.  Said  "thumbers" 
seem  to  have  gone  out  of  favour  with  the 
aristocracy  of  the  Turf;  but  the  true  racing 
or  coursing  sandwich  still  forms  part  of  the 
impedimenta  of  many  a  cash  -  bookmaker,  of  his 
clerk,  and  of  many  a  "Httle"  backer.      'Tis  a 


54  CAKES  AND  ALE 

solid,  satisfying  sandwich,  and  is  just  the  sort 
of  nourishment  for  a  hard  worker  on  a  bitter 
November  day.  Let  your  steak  be  grilling, 
whilst  you  are  enjoying  your  breakfast — some 
prefer  the  ox- portion  fried,  for  these  simple 
speculators  have  strange  tastes — then  take  the 
steak  ofF  the  fire  and  place  it,  all  hot,  between 
two  thick  slices  of  bread.  The  sandwich  will 
require  several  paper  wrappings,  if  you  value  the 
purity  of  your  pocket-linings.  And  when  eaten 
cold,  the  juices  of  the  meat  will  be  found  to 
have  irrigated  the  bread,  with  more  or  less 
"  delicious  gravy."  And,  as  Sam  Weller  ought 
to  have  said,  "  it*s  the  gravy  as  does  it." 

"  But  what  about  the  swells  ?  "  I  fancy  I 
hear  somebody  asking,  "  Is  my  Lord  Tomnoddy, 
or  the  Duke  of  Earlswood  to  be  compelled  to 
satisfy  his  hunger,  on  a  race-course,  with  tripe 
and  fat  bacon  ?  Are  you  really  advising  those 
dapper-looking,  tailor-made  ladies  on  yonder  drag 
to  insert  their  delicate  teeth  in  a  sandwich  which 
would  have  puzzled  Gargantua  to  masticate  ?  " 
Not  at  all,  my  good  sir,  or  madam.  The  well- 
appointed  coach  should  be  well-appointed  within 
and  without.  Of  course  the  luncheon  it  contains 
will  differ  materially  according  to  the  season  of 
the  year.  This  is  the  sort  of  meal  I  will  provide, 
an  you  will  deign  to  visit  the  Arabian  tent 
behind  my  coach,  at  Ascot : 

Lobster  mayonnaise,  salmon  cutlets  with 
Tartar  sauce  [iced\  curried  prawns  [iced)^  lobster 
cutlets,  chaud-froid  of  quails,  foie  gras  in  aspic, 
prawns  in  ditto,  plovers*  eggs  in  ditto,  galantine 
of  chicken,  York  ham,  sweets  various,  including 


LUNCHEON  55 

iced  gooseberry  fool  j  and,  as  the  piece  de  re- 
sistance^ an 

AngeVs  Pie, 

Many  people  would  call  this  a  pigeon  pie,  for  in 
good  sooth  there  be  pigeons  in  it ;  but  'tis  a  pie 
worthy  of  a  brighter  sphere  than  this. 

Six  plump  young  pigeons,  trimmed  ot  all  super- 
fluous matter,  including  pinions  and  below  the 
thighs.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stuff  these 
pigeons  with  foie  gras,  and  quartered  truffles,  and 
fill  up  the  pie  with  plovers'  eggs  and  some  good 
force-meat.  Make  a  good  gravy  from  the  super- 
fluous parts  of  the  birds,  and  some  calf's  head  stock 
to  which  has  been  added  about  half  a  wine-glassful 
of  old  Madeira,  with  some  lemon-juice  and  cayenne. 
See  that  your  paste  be  light  and  flaky,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  three  hours.  Pour  in  more 
gravy  just  before  taking  out,  and  let  the  pie  get 
cold. 

This  is  a  concoction  which  will  make  you 
back  all  the  winners  j  whilst  no  heiress  who 
nibbles  at  it  would  refuse  you  her  hand  and 
heart  afterwards. 

This  is  another  sort  of 

Pigeon  Pie 

which  is  best  served  hot,  and  is  more  suited  to 
the  dining-room  than  the  race-course. 

Line  a  pie  dish  with  veal  force-meat,  very  highly 
seasoned,  about  an  inch  thick.  Place  on  it  some 
thin  slices  of  tat  bacon,  three  Bordeaux  pigeons 
(trimmed)  in  halves,  a  veal  sweetbread  in  slices,  an 


56  CAKES  AND  ALE 

ox  palate,  boiled  and  cut  up  into  dice,  a  dozen 
asparagus  tops,  a  few  button  mushrooms  (the  large 
ones  would  give  the  interior  of  the  pie  a  bad  colour) 
and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Cover  with  force-meat, 
and  bake  for  three  hours.  Some  good  veal  gravy- 
should  be  served  with   this,  which  I  have   named 

Suffolk  Pride, 

It  is  a  remarkable  fact  in  natural  history  that 
English  pigeons  are  at  their  best  just  at  the 
time  when  the  young  rooks  leave  the  shelter  of 
their  nests.  Therefore  have  I  written,  in  the 
above  recipe,  "  Bordeaux  "  pigeons. 

Here  is  a  quaint  old  eighteenth-century  recipe, 
which  comes  from  Northumberland,  and  is  given 
verbatim^  for  a 

Goose  Pie. 

Bone  a  goose,  a  turkey,  a  hare,  and  a  brace  of 
grouse  ;  skin  it,  and  cut  oft  all  the  outside  pieces — 
I  mean  of  the  tongue,  after  boiling  it — lay  the  goose, 
for  the  outside  a  few  pieces  of  hare  ;  then  lay  in  the 
turkey,  the  grouse,  and  the  remainder  of  the  tongue 
and  hare.  Season  highly  between  each  layer  with 
pepper  and  salt,  mace  and  cayenne,  and  put  it 
together,  and  draw  it  close  with  a  needle  and  thread. 
Take  20  lbs.  of  flour,  put  5  lbs.  of  butter  into  a 
pan  with  some  water,  let  it  boil,  pour  it  among  the 
flour,  stir  it  with  a  knife,  then  work  it  with  your 
hands  till  quite  stiff.  Let  it  stand  before  the  fire 
for  half  an  hour,  then  raise  your  pie  and  set  it  to 
cool ;  then  finish  it,  put  in  the  meat,  close  the  pie, 
and  set  it  in  a  cold  place.  Ornament  according 
to  your  taste,  bandage  it  with  calico  dipped  in  fat. 
Let  it  stand  all  night  before  baking.  It  will  take  a 
long  time  to  bake.     The  oven  must  be  pretty  hot 


LUNCHEON  57 

for  the  first  four  hours,  and  then  allowed  to  slacken. 
To  know  when  it  is  enough,  raise  one  of  the  orna- 
ments, and  with  a  fork  try  if  the  meat  is  tender. 
If  it  is  hard  the  pie  must  be  put  in  again  for  two 
hours  more.  After  it  comes  out  of  the  oven  fill  up 
with  strong  stock,  well  seasoned,  or  with  clarified 
butter.     All  standing  pies  made  in  this  way. 

Verily,  in  the  eighteenth  century  they  must 
have  had  considerably  more  surplus  cash  and 
time,  and  rather  more  angelic  cooks  than  their 
descendants  ! 

During  cold  weather  the  interior  of  the  coach 
should  be  well  filled  with  earthenware  vessels 
containing  such  provender  as  hot-pot,  hare  soup, 
mullagatawney,  lobster  a  V America ine^  curried 
rabbit,  devilled  larks — with  thew^^/nV/ for  heating 
these.  Such  cold  viands  as  game  pie,  pressed 
beef,  boar's  hta.dy /oie  gras  (truffled),  plain  truffles 
(to  be  steamed  and  served  with  buttered  toast) 
anchovies,  etc.  The  larks  should  be  smothered 
with  a  paste  made  from  a  mixture  of  mustard, 
Chili  vinegar,  and  a  little  anchovy  paste,  and  kept 
closely  covered  up.  After  heating,  add  cayenne 
to  taste. 

Gourmets  interested  in  menus  may  like  to 
know  what  were  the  first  dejeuners  partaken  of  by 
the  Tsar  on  his  arrival  in  Paris  in  October  1869. 

On  the  first  day  he  had  huitres,  consomme, 
ceufs  a  la  Parisienne,  filet  de  boeuf,  pommes  de 
terre,  Nesselrode  sauce,  chocolat. 

Next  day  he  ate  huitres,  consomme,  oeufs 
Dauphine,  rougets,  noisettes  d'agneau  marechal, 
pommes  de  terre,  cailles  a  la  Bohemienne, 
poires  Bar-Ie-Duc. 


58  CAKES  AND  ALE 

The  writer  can  recall  some  colossal  luncheons 
partaken  of  at  dear,  naughty  Simla,  in  the  long 
ago,  when  a  hill  station  in  India  was,  if  anything, 
livelier  than  at  the  present  day,  and  furnished  plenty 
of  food  for  both  mind  and  body.  Our  host  was 
the  genial  proprietor  of  a  weekly  journal,  to 
which  most  of  his  guests  contributed,  after  their 
lights  ;  "  sport  and  the  drama "  falling  to  the 
present  writer's  share.  Most  of  the  food  at 
those  luncheons  had  been  specially  imported  from 
Europe  ;  and  although  the  whitebait  tasted  more 
of  the  hermetical  sealing  than  of  the  Thames 
mud,  most  of  the  other  items  were  succulent 
enough.  There  were  turtle  soup,  and  turtle  fins  ; 
highly  seasoned  pates  of  sorts  ;  and  the  native 
khansama  had  added  several  dishes  of  his  own 
providing  and  invention.  A  young  florican 
(bustard)  is  by  no  means  a  bad  bird,  well  roasted 
and  basted  ;  and  though  the  eternal  vilolif  (veal 
olives)  were  usually  sent  away  untasted,  his  snipe 
puddings  were  excellent.  What  was  called 
picheese  (twenty-five  years  old)  brandy,  from  the 
atelier  of  Messrs.  Justerini  and  Brooks,  was  served 
after  the  coffee  j  and  those  luncheon  parties  seldom 
broke  up  until  it  was  time  to  dress  for  dinner. 
In  fact,  our  memories  were  not  often  keen  as 
to  anything  which  occurred  after  the  coffee, 
and  many  *^'  strange  things  happened "  in  con- 
sequence ;  although  as  they  have  no  particular 
connection  with  high -class  cookery,  they  need 
not  be  alluded  to  in  this  chapter. 

But,  as  observed  before,  1  am  of  opinion  that 
luncheon,  except  under  certain  circumstances,  is 
a  mistake. 


CHAPTER   VI 


DINNER 

**  Some  hae  meat  and  canna  eat, 
And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it  j 
But  we  can  eat  and  we  hae  meat, 
And  sae  the  Lord  be  thankit." 

Origin  —  Early  dinners  —  The  noble  Romans  —  "VitelHus  the 
Glutton" — Origin  of  haggis — The  Saxons — Highland  hospi- 
tality— The  French  invasion — Waterloo  avenged — The  bad 
fairy  "yf/a" — Comparisons — The  English  cook  or  the  foreign 
food  torturer  ? — Plain  or  flowery — Fresh  fish  and  the  flavour 
wrapped  up — George  Augustus  Sala — Doctor  Johnson  again. 

It  is  somewhat  humiliating  to  reflect  that  wc 
Britons  owe  the  art  of  dining  to  our  first  con- 
querors the  Romans — a  smooth-faced  race  of 
voluptuaries  whose  idea  of  a  bonne  bouche  took 
the  form  of  a  dormouse  stewed  in  honey  and 
sprinkled  with  poppy-seed.  But  it  was  not 
until  the  Normans  had  fairly  established  them- 
selves and  their  cookery,  that  the  sturdy  Saxon 
submitted  himself  to  be  educated  by  the  foreign 
food-spoiler  ;  and  at  a  later  period  the  frequent 
invasions  of  France  by  Britain — when  money 
was  "  tight "  in  the  little  island  —  were  un- 
F 


6o  CAKES  AND  ALE 

doubtedly  responsible  for  the  commencement 
of  the  system  of  "  decorating "  food  which  so 
largely  obtains  to-day. 

The  name  "dinner"  is  said  —  although  it 
seems  incredible  that  words  should  have  become 
so  corrupted — to  be  a  corruption  of  dix  heures^ 
the  time  at  which  (a.m.),  in  the  old  Norman 
days,  the  meal  was  usually  partaken  of  j  and  the 
time  at  which  (p.m.),  in  later  years,  when  none  of 
the  guests  ever  knew  the  hour,  in  that  loose-and- 
careless  period,  the  meal  was  occasionally  par- 
taken of  at  Limmer's  and  at  Lane's,  in  London 
town.  Froissart,  in  one  of  his  works,  mentions 
having  waited  upon  the  Duke  of  Lancaster  at 
5  P.M.,  "  after  his  Grace  had  supped  "  ;  and  it  is 
certain  that  during  the  reigns  of  Francis  L  and 
Louis  XIL  of  France,  the  world  of  fashion  was 
accustomed  to  dine  long  before  the  sun  had 
arrived  at  the  meridian,  and  to  sup  at  what  we 
now  call  "afternoon  tea  time."  Louis  XIV. 
did  not  dine  till  twelve  ;  and  his  contemporaries, 
Oliver  Cromwell  and  the  Merry  Monarch,  sat 
down  to  the  principal  meal  at  one.  In  1700, 
two  was  the  fashionable  time;  and  in  1751  we 
read  that  the  Duchess  of  Somerset's  hour  for 
dinner  was  three.  The  hour  for  putting  the 
soup  on  the  table  kept  on  advancing,  until,  after 
Waterloo,  it  became  almost  a  penal  offence  to 
dine  before  six  ;  and  so  to  the  end  of  the  century, 
when  we  sit  down  to  a  sumptuous  repast  at  a 
time  when  farm -labourers  and  artisans  are  either 
snug  between  the  blankets,  or  engaged  in  their 
final  wrangle  at  the  "Blue  Pig." 

The   Romans   in   the  time  of  Cicero   had  a 


DINNER  61 

light  breakfast  at  3.30  a.m.,  lunched  at  noon, 
and  attacked  the  coena  at  periods  varying  between 
3  and  7  P.M. — according  to  the  season  of  the 
year.  They  commenced  the  first  course  with 
eggs,  and  each  noble  Roman  was  supposed  to 
clear  his  palate  with  an  apple  at  the  conclusion 
of  the  third  course.  "A  banquet  with  Vitellius," 
we  read,  "was  no  light  and  simple  repast. 
Leagues  of  sea  and  miles  of  forest  had  been  swept 
to  furnish  the  mere  groundwork  of  the  entertain- 
ment. Hardy  fishermen  had  spent  their  nights 
on  the  heaving  wave,  that  the  giant  turbot  might 
flap  its  snowy  flakes  on  the  Emperor's  table, 
broader  than  its  broad  dish  of  gold.  Many  a 
swelling  hill,  clad  in  the  dark  oak  coppice,  had 
echoed  to  ringing  shout  of  hunter  and  deep- 
mouthed  bay  of  hound,  ere  the  wild  boar  yielded 
his  grim  life,  by  the  morass,  and  the  dark  grisly 
carcase  was  drawn  ofF  to  provide  a  standing  dish 
that  was  only  meant  to  gratify  the  eye.  Even 
the  peacock  roasted  in  its  feathers  was  too  gross 
a  dainty  " — especially  the  feather  part,  we  should 
think — "for  epicures  who  studied  the  art  of  gastro- 
nomy under  Caesar  j  and  that  taste  would  have 
been  considered  rustic  in  the  extreme  which 
could  partake  of  more  than  the  mere  fumes  and 
savour  of  so  substantial  a  dish.  A  thousand 
nightingales  had  been  trapped  and  killed,  indeed, 
for  this  one  supper,  but  brains  and  tongues  were 
all  they  contributed  to  the  banquet ;  while  even 
the  wing  of  a  roasted  hare  would  have  been 
considered  far  too  coarse  and  common  food  for 
the  imperial  table."  Talk  about  a  beanfeast  I 
According  to  Suetonius  (whose  name  suggests 


62  Cakes  and  ale 

"dufF")  the  villain  Nero  was  accustomed  to  dine 
in  a  superb  apartment,  surrounded  with  mechani- 
cal scenery,  which  could  be  "  shifted "  with 
every  course.  The  suppers  of  "Vitellius  the 
Glutton  "  cost,  on  the  average,  more  than  ^^4000 
a-piece  —  which  reads  like  a  "  Kaffir  Circus  " 
dinner  at  the  Savoy — and  the  celebrated  feast  to 
which  he  invited  his  brother  was  down  in  the 
bill  for  ^40,350.  Now  a-nights  we  don't  spend 
as  much  on  a  dinner,  even  when  we  invite  other 
people's  wives.  "  It  consisted  " — I  always  think 
of  Little  Dombey  and  the  dinner  at  Doctor 
Blimber's,  on  reading  these  facts  —  "of  two 
thousand  different  dishes  of  fish,  and  seven 
thousand  of  fowls,  with  other  equally  numerous 
meats." 

"  Sharp  -  biting  salads,"  salted  herrings,  and 
pickled  anchovies,  were  served,  as  hors  d'oeuvres 
during  the  first  course  of  a  Roman  banquet,  to 
stimulate  the  hunger  which  the  rest  of  the  meal 
would  satisfy  ;  but  although  Vitellius  was, 
according  to  history,  "  a  whale  on  "  oysters,  they 
do  not  appear  to  have  been  eaten  as  a  whet  to 
appetite.  And  it  was  the  duty  of  one,  or  more, 
of  the  Emperor's  "  freedmen  "  to  taste  every  dish 
before  his  imperial  master,  in  case  poison  might 
lurk  therein.  A  garland  of  flowers  around  the 
brows  was  the  regular  wear  for  a  guest  at  a 
"swagger"  dinner  party  in  ancient  Rome-,  and, 
the  eating  part  over,  said  garland  was  usually 
tilted  back  on  the  head,  the  while  he  who  had 
dined  disposed  himself  in  an  easy  attitude  on  his 
ivory  couch,  and  proffered  his  cup  to  be  filled 
by  the  solicitous  slave.      Then  commenced  the 


DINNER  63 

"  big  drink."  But  it  must  be  remembered  that 
although  the  subsequent  display  of  fireworks  was 
provided  from  lively  Early  Christians,  in  tar 
overcoats;  these  Romans  drank  the  pure,  un- 
adulterated juice  of  the  grape,  freely  mixed  with 
water  ;  so  that  headaches  i'  th'  morn  were  not 
de  rigueur^  nor  did  the  subsequent  massacres  and 
other  diversions  in  the  Amphitheatre  cause  any 
feeHngs  of  "jumpiness." 

The  Roman  bill-of-fare,  however,  does  not 
commend  itself  to  all  British  epicures,  one  of 
whom  wrote,  in  a  convivial  song — 

"  Old  Lucullus,  they  say. 
Forty  cooks  had  each  day. 

And  Vitellius's  meals  cost  a  million  j 
But  I  like  what  is  good, 
When  or  where  be  my  food, 

In  a  chop-house  or  royal  pavilion. 

At  all  feasts  (if  enough) 

I  most  heartily  stuff. 
And  a  song  at  my  heart  alike  rushes. 

Though  I've  not  fed  my  lungs 

Upon  nightingales*  tongues, 
Nor  the  brains  of  goldfinches  and  thrushes.** 

My  pen  loves  to  linger  long  over  the  gastro- 
nomies of  those  shaven  voluptuaries,  the  ancient 
Italians  ;  and  my  Caledonian  readers  will  forgive 
the  old  tales  when  it  is  further  set  forth  that  the 
Romans  introduced,  amongst  other  things, 

Haggis 

into  Bonnie  Scotland.  Yes,  the  poet*s  "great 
chieftain  o'  the  puddin'  race "  is  but  an  Italian 


<4  CAKES  AND  ALE 

dish  after  all.  The  Apician  pork  haggis  ^  was  a 
boiled  pig's  stomach  filled  with  fry  and  brains, 
raw  eggs,  and  pine  apples  beaten  to  a  pulp,  and 
seasoned  with  liquamen.  For  although  some  of 
the  Romans*  tastes  savoured  of  refinement,  many 
of  them  were  "  absolutely  beastly."  The  idea  of 
pig's  fry  and  pineapples  mixed  is  horrible  enough  ; 
but  take  a  look  into  the  constitution  ef  this 
liquamen^  and  wonder  no  longer  that  Gibbons 
wrote  his  Decline  and  Fall  with  so  much  feeling 
and  gusto.  This  sauce  was  obtained  from  the 
intestines,  gills,  and  blood  of  fishes,  great  and 
small,  stirred  together  with  salt,  and  exposed  in 
an  open  vat  in  the  sun,  until  the  compound 
became  putrid.  When  putrefaction  had  done 
its  work,  wine  and  spices  were  added  to  the 
hell-broth,  which  was  subsequently  strained  and 
sent  into  the  Roman  market.  This  liquamen 
was  manufactured  in  Greece,  and  not  one  of  all 
the  poets  of  sunny  Italy  seems  to  have  satirised 
the  "  made-in-Greece  "  custom,  which  in  those 
days  must  have  been  almost  as  obnoxious  as  the 
"made -in -Germany"  or  the  " made-in- White- 
chapel  "  scare  of  to-day. 

The  usual  farinaceous  ingredient  of  the 
Roman  haggis  was  frumenty,  but  frequently 
no    grain    whatever    was    applied  ;    and    instead 

^  The  cannie  Scot,  however,  never  made  his  haggis  from  any- 
thing belonging  to  the  pij.  The  dislike  of  the  Scots  to  pork 
dates  from  very  long  ago,  as  we  read  in  a  note  to  Sir  Walter 
Scott's  JVaverley.  King  "Jamie"  carried  this  prejudiceto  England, 
an<i  is  known  to  have  abhorred  perk  almost  as  much  as  he  did 
tobacco.  His  proposed  banquet  to  the  "  Deil "  consisted  of  a 
loin  of  pork,  a  poll  (or  head)  of  ling,  with  a  pipe  of  tobacco  for 
digestion. 


DINNER  65 

of  mincing  the  ingredients,  as  do  the  Scots, 
the  ancients  pounded  them  in  a  mortar,  well 
moistened  with  liquamen^  until  reduced  to  pulp. 
We  are  further  told  in  history  that  a  Roman 
gladiator  was  capable,  after  playing  with  eggs, 
fish,  nightingales'  tongues,  dormice,  and  haggis, 
of  finishing  a  wild  boar  at  a  sitting.  But  as 
the  old  lady  remarked  of  the  great  tragedy,  this 
happened  a  long  time  ago,  so  let's  hope  it  isn't 
true. 

The  Saxon  dining -table  was  oblong,  and 
rounded  at  the  ends.  The  cloth  was  crimson, 
with  broad  gilt  edgings  hanging  low  beneath 
the  table,  and,  it  is  to  be  feared,  often  soiled  by 
the  dirty  boots  of  the  guests,  who  sat  on  chairs 
with  covered  backs,  the  counterfeit  presentments 
of  which  are  still  to  be  seen  in  the  Tottenham 
Court  Road.  The  food  consisted  of  fish,  fowls, 
beef,  mutton,  venison,  and  pork  —  wild  and 
domestic — either  boiled,  baked,  or  broiled,  and 
handed  to  the  company  by  the  attendants  on 
small  spies,  A  favourite  "  fish  joint  "  of  the  old 
Saxon  was  a  cut  out  of  the  middle  of  a  porpoise  ; 
and  bread  of  the  finest  wheaten  flour  reposed  in 
two  silver  baskets  at  each  end  of  the  table,  above 
the  salt,  the  retainers  having  to  content  them- 
selves with  coarser  "  household  "  out  of  a  wooden 
cradle.  Almost  the  only  vegetable  in  use  amongst 
the  Saxons  was  kalewort,  although  the  Romans 
had  brought  over  many  others,  years  before ; 
but  hatred  of  anything  foreign  was  more 
rampant  in  early  Saxon  days  than  at  present. 
Forks  were  not  introduced  into  England  until 
during  the  reign  of  King  "Jamie"  :  so  that  our 


66  CAKES  AND  ALE 

ancestors  had  perforce  to  "  thumb  "  their  victuals. 
The  fair  Queen  Elizabeth  (like  much  more 
modern  monarchs)  was  accustomed  to  raise  to 
her  mouth  with  her  virgin  fingers  a  turkey  leg 
and  gnaw  it.  But  even  in  the  earliest  days  of 
the  thirteenth  century,  each  person  was  provided 
with  a  small  silver  basin  and  two  flowered  napkins 
of  the  finest  linen,  for  finger-washing  and  wiping 
purposes.  Grapes,  figs,  nuts,  apples,  pears,  and 
almonds,  constituted  a  Saxon  dessert;  and  in 
the  reign  of  Edward  III.  an  Act  of  Parliament 
was  passed,  forbidding  any  man  or  woman  to 
be  served  with  more  than  two  courses,  unless  on 
high  days  and  holidays,  when  each  was  entitled 
to  three. 

Here  is  the  bill  for  the  ingredients  of  a  big  dinner 
provided  by  a  City  Company  in  the  fifteenth 
century  :  "  Two  loins  of  veal  and  two  loins  of 
mutton,  IS.  4d. ;  one  loin  of  beef,  ^d.  ;  one  dozen 
pigeons  and  12  rabbits,  gd. ;  one  pig  and  one 
capon,  IS. ;  one  goose  and  lOO  eggs,  is.  oj^d.  ; 
one  leg  of  mutton,  2jd. ;  two  gallons  of  sack, 
IS.  4d. ;  eight  gallons  of  strong  ale,  is.  6d. ; 
total,  7s.  6d."  Alas  !  In  these  advanced  days 
the  goose  alone  would  cost  more  than  the 
"  demmed  total." 

Cedric  the  Saxon's  dining  table,  described  in 
Ivanho£y  was  of  a  much  simpler  description  than 
the  one  noted  above  ;  and  the  fare  also.  But 
there  was  no  lack  of  assorted  liquors — old  wine 
and  ale,  good  mead  and  cider,  rich  morat  (a  mixture 
of  honey  and  mulberry  juice,  a  somewhat  gouty 
beverage,  probably),  and  odoriferous  pigment — 
which   was    composed   of    highly- spiced   wine, 


DINNER  67 

sweetened  with  honey.  The  Virgin  Queen,  at 
a  later  epoch,  was  catered  for  more  delicately  ; 
and  we  read  that  she  detested  all  coarse  meats, 
evil  smells,  and  strong  wines.  During  the 
Georgian  era  coarse  meats  and  strong  wines 
were  by  no  means  out  of  favour  ;  and  Highland 
banquets  especially  were  Gargantuan  feasts,  to 
be  read  of  with  awe.  The  dinner  given  by 
Fergus  Maclvor,  in  honour  of  Captain  Waverley, 
consisted  of  dishes  of  fish  and  game,  carefully 
dressed,  at  the  upper  end  of  the  table,  immediately 
under  the  eye  of  the  English  stranger.  "  Lower 
down  stood  immense  clumsy  joints  of  beef,"  says 
the  gifted  author,  "which,  but  for  the  absence 
of  pork,  abhorred  in  the  Highlands,  resembled 
the  rude  festivity  of  the  banquet  of  Penelope's 
suitors.  But  the  central  dish  was  a  yearling  lamb, 
called  a  "hog  in  har'st,"  roasted  whole.  It  was 
set  upon  its  legs,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley  in  its 
mouth,  and  was  probably  exhibited  in  that  form 
to  gratify  the  pride  of  the  cook,  who  piqued 
himself  more  on  the  plenty  than  the  elegance 
of  his  master's  table.  The  sides  of  this  poor 
animal" — the  lamb,  not  the  cook,  we  suppose  is 
meant — "  were  fiercely  attacked  by  the  clansmen, 
some  with  dirks,  others  with  the  knives  worn  in 
the  same  sheath  as  the  dagger,  so  that  it  was 
soon  rendered  a  mangled  and  rueful  spectacle." 

A  spectacle  which  reminds  the  writer  of  a 
dinner  table  at  the  Royal  Military  College, 
Sandhurst,  in  the  early  sixties. 

"Lower  down,"  continues  Sir  Walter,  "the 
victuals  seemed  of  yet  coarser  quality,  though 
sufficiently  abundant.     Broth,  onions,  cheese,  and 


68  CAKES  AND  ALE 

the  fragments  of  the  feast,  regaled  the  sons  of 
Ivor,  who  feasted  in  the  open  air." 

The  funeral  baked  meats  used  after  the  inter- 
ment of  the  chief  of  the  Clan  Quhele  (described 
in  The  Fair  Maid  of  Perth)  were  also  on  a  very 
extensive  scale,  and  were,  like  the  other  meal, 
"  digested "  with  pailfuls  of  usquebaugh,  for 
which  no  Highland  head  that  supported  a  bonnet 
was  ever  "  the  waur  i'  th'  morn."  And  the 
custom  of  placing  bagpipers  behind  the  chairs 
of  the  guests,  after  they  have  well  drunk, 
which  is  still  observed  in  Highland  regiments, 
was  probably  introduced  by  the  aforesaid 
Fergus  Maclvor,  who  really  ought  to  have 
known  better. 

And  so  the  years  rolled  on  ;  and  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  nineteenth  century,  old  Eng- 
land, instead  of  enjoying  the  blessings  of  universal 
peace,  such  as  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  of  Chris- 
tianity might  have  taught  us  to  expect,  found 
herself  involved  in  rather  more  warfare  than 
was  good  for  trade,  or  anything  else.  The  first 
"  innings  "  of  the  Corsican  usurper  was  a  short 
but  merry  one ;  the  second  saw  him  finally 
"stumped."  And  from  that  period  dates  the 
"  avenging  of  Waterloo  "  which  we  have  suffered 
in  silence  for  so  long.  The  immigration  of 
aliens  commenced,  and  in  the  tight  little  island 
were  deposited  a  large  assortment  of  the  poison- 
ous seeds  of  alien  cookery  which  had  never 
exactly  flourished  before.  The  combat  between 
the  Roast  Beef  of  old  England  and  the  bad  fairy 
"  Ala^^  with  her  attendant  sprites  Grease,  Vinegar, 
and  Garlic,  commenced  j  a  combat  which  at  the 


DINNER  69 

end  of  the  nineteenth  century  looked  excessively 
like  terminating  in  favour  of  the  fairy. 

It  has  been  repeatedly  urged  against  my  former 
gastronomic  w^ritings  that  they  are  unjustly 
severe  on  French  cookery ;  that  far  greater 
minds  than  mine  own  have  expressed  unqualified 
approval  thereof ;  that  I  know  absolutely  nothing 
about  the  subject  ;  and  that  my  avowed  hatred 
of  our  lively  neighbours  and  their  works  is  so 
ferocious  as  to  become  ridiculous.  These  state- 
ments are  not  altogether  fair  to  myself.  I  have 
no  "  avowed  hatred  "  of  our  lively  neighbours  ; 
in  fact,  upon  one  occasion  on  returning  from  the 
celebration  of  the  Grand  Prix,  I  saw  a  vision  of 

but  that  is  a  different  anecdote.     My  lash 

has  never  embraced  the  entire  batter ie  de  cuisine 
of  the  chef^  and  there  be  many  French  plats 
which  are  agreeable  to  the  palate,  as  long  as  we 
are  satisfied  that  the  materiel  of  which  they  are 
composed  is  sound,  wholesome,  and  of  the  best 
quality.  It  is  the  cheap  restaurateur  who  should 
be  improved  out  of  England.  I  was  years  ago 
inveigled  into  visiting  the  kitchen  of  one  of  these 

grease-and-garlic  shops,  and but  the  memory 

is  too  terrible  for  language.  And  will  anybody 
advance  the  statement  that  a  basin  of  the  tortue 
claire  of  the  average  <:A^  deserves  to  be  mentioned 
in  the  same  breath  with  a  plate  of  clear  turtle  at 
Birch's  or  Painter's  ?  or  that  good  genuine 
English  soup,  whether  ox-tail,  mock-turtle,  pea, 
oyster,  or  Palestine,  is  not  to  be  preferred  to  the 
French  puree^  or  to  their  teakettle  broth  flavoured 
with  carrots,  cabbages,  and  onions,  and  dignified 
by  the  name  of  consomme  F 


70  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Then  let  us  tackle  the  subject  of  fish.  Would 
you  treat  a  salmon  in  the  British  way,  or  smother 
him  with  thick  brown  gravy,  fried  onions,  garlic, 
mushrooms,  inferior  claret,  oysters,  sugar,  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  en  Matelote^  or  mince  him  fine 
to  make  a  ridiculous  mousse  ?  Similarly  with  the 
honest,  manly  sole  ;  would  you  fry  or  grill  him 
plain,  or  bake  him  in  a  coat  of  rich  white  sauce, 
onion  juice,  mussel  ditto,  and  white  wine,  or 
cider,  a  la  Normande ;  or  cover  him  with  toasted 
cheese  a  la  Cardinal  P 

The  fairy  ^^j^Ia"  is  likewise  responsible  for 
the  clothing  of  purely  English  food  in  French 
disguises.  Thus  a  leg  of  mutton  becomes  a 
gigoty  a  pheasant  (for  its  transgressions  in 
eating  the  poor  farmer's  barley)  a  faisan^  and  is 
charged  for  at  special  rates  in  the  bill ;  whilst 
the  nearest  to  a  beefsteak  our  lively  neighbours 
can  get  is  a  portion  of  beef  with  the  fibre 
smashed  by  a  wooden  mallet,  surmounted  by  an 
exceedingly  bilious-looking  compound  like  axle- 
grease,  and  called  a  Chateaubriand  -,  and  curry 
becomes  under  the  new  regime^  hart. 

Undoubtedly,  the  principal  reason  for  serving 
food  smothered  in  made-gravies  lies  in  the  in- 
feriority of  the  food.  Few  judges  will  credit 
France  with  the  possession  of  better  butcher's- 
meat — with  the  exception  of  veal — than  the 
perfidious  island,  which  is  so  near  in  the  matter 
of  distance,  and  yet  so  far  in  the  matter  of 
custom.  And  it  is  an  established  fact  that  the 
fish  of  Paris  is  not  as  fresh  as  the  fish  of  London. 
Hence  the  sole  Normande^  the  sole  au  gratin^ 
and  the  sole  smothered  in  toasted  cheese.     But 


DINNER  ^1 

when  we  islanders  are  charged  at  least  four  times 
as  much  for  the  inferior  article,  in  its  foreign 
cloak,  as  for  the  home  article  in  its  native 
majesty,  I  think  the  time  has  come  to  protest. 
It  is  possible  to  get  an  excellent  dinner  at  any 
of  the  "Gordon"  hotels,  at  the  "Savoy,"  the 
^*  Cecil,"  and  at  some  other  noted  food-houses — 
more  especially  at  Romano's — by  paying  a  stiff 
price  for  it ;  out  it  is  due  to  a  shameful  lack  of 
enterprise  on  the  part  of  English  caterers  that  a 
well-cooked  English  dinner  is  becoming  more 
difficult  to  procure,  year  after  year.  There  be 
three  purely  British  dishes  which  are  always  "hoff" 
before  all  others  on  the  programme  of  club,  hotel, 
or  eating-house  j  and  these  are,  Irish  stew,  liver- 
and-bacon,  and  tripe-and-onions.  Yet  hardly  a 
week  passes  without  a  new  diner  Paris  ten 
making  its  appearance  in  the  advertisement 
columns  of  the  newspapers  ;  whilst  the  cheap- 
and-nasty  table  d'hote^  with  its  six  or  seven 
courses  and  its  Spanish  claret,  has  simply  throttled 
the  Roast  Beef  of  Old  England. 

"Sir,"  said  Dr.  Johnson,  after  examining  a 
French  menu^  "  my  brain  is  obfuscated  after  the 
perusal  of  this  heterogeneous  conglomeration  of 
bastard  English  ill-spelt,  and  a  foreign  tongue. 
I  prithee  bid  thy  knaves  bring  me  a  dish  of 
hog's  puddings,  a  slice  or  two  from  the  upper 
cut  of  a  well-roasted  sirloin,  and  two  apple- 
dumplings." 

"William,"  said  George  Augustus  Sala  to 
the  old  waiter  at  the  "Cheshire  Cheese,"  "I've 
had  nothing  fit  to  eat  for  three  months  j  get  me 
a  point  steak,  for  God's  sake  !  " 


72  CAKES  AND  ALE 

The  great  lauder  of  foreign  cookery  had  only 
that  day  returned  from  a  special  mission  to  France, 
to  "  write  up  "  the  works  of  the  cordon  bleu  for 
the  benefit  of  us  benighted  Englishmen.  No 
man  in  the  wide  wide  world  knew  so  much,  or 
could  write  so  much,  on  the  subject  of  and  in 
praise  of  the  fairy  "  Jla^^  as  George  Sala  ;  and 
probably  no  man  in  the  wide  wide  world  so  little 
appreciated  her  efforts. 

But  how  has  it  come  about  that  the  fairy 
"  Ala  "  has  gained  such  headway  in  this  island  of 
ours  ?  The  answer  must  commence  another 
chapter. 


CHAPTER    VII 
DINNER  [continued) 

"  It  is  the  cause  !  " 

Imitation — Dear  Lady  Thistlebrain — Try  it  on  the  dog — 
Criminality  of  the  English  Caterer — The  stove,  the  stink, 
the  steamer — Roasting  -v.  Baking — False  Economy — Dirty 
ovens — Frills  and  fingers — Time  over  Dinner — A  long- 
winded  Bishop — Corned  beef. 

Now  for  the  cause,  alluded  to  at  the  end  of  the 
last  chapter. 

Imprimis^  the  French  invasion  is  due  to  the 
universal  craze  for  imitation,  which  may  be  the 
sincerest  form  of  flattery,  but  which  frequently 
leads  to  bad  results.  For  years  past  the  fair  sex 
of  Great  Britain  have  been  looking  to  Paris  for 
fashion  in  dress,  as  well  as  in  cookery ;  whilst 
the  other  sex  have  long  held  the  mistaken  notion 
that  "they  manage  things  better  in  France." 
The  idea  that  France  is  the  only  country  cap- 
able of  clothing  the  outer  and  the  inner  man, 
artistically,  has  taken  deep  root.  Thus,  if  the 
Duchess  of  Dulverton  import,  regardless  of 
expense,  a  divine  creation  in  bonnets  from  the 


^4  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Rue  de  Castigllone,  and  air  the  same  in  church, 
it  is  good  odds  that  Httle  Mrs.  Stokes,  of  the 
Talbot  Road,  Bayswater,  will  have  had  the 
chapeau  copied,  at  about  one-twentieth  of  the 
original  cost,  by  the  next  Sabbath  day.  Dear 
Lady  Thistlebrain,  who  has  such  taste  (since  she 
quitted  the  family  mangle  in  Little  Toke  Street, 
Lambeth,  for  two  mansions,  a  castle,  and  a  deer 
park),  and  with  whom  money  is  no  object,  pays 
her  chef  the  wages  of  an  ambassador,  and  every- 
body raves  over  her  dinners.  Mrs.  Potter  of 
Maida  Vale  sets  her  "gal"  (who  studied  higher 
gastronomy,  together  with  the  piano,  and  flower- 
painting  on  satin,  at  the  Board  School)  to  work 
on  similar  menus — with,  on  the  whole,  disastrous 
results.  The  London  society  and  fashion  journals 
encourage  this  snobbish  idea  by  quoting  menus^ 
most  of  them  ridiculous.  Amongst  the  middle 
classes  the  custom  of  giving  dinner  parties  at 
hotels  has  for  some  time  past  been  spreading,  partly 
to  save  trouble,  and  partly  to  save  the  brain  of  the 
domestic  cook  ;  so  that  instead  of  sitting  down  to 
a  plain  dinner,  with,  maybe,  an  entree  or  two  sent 
in  by  the  local  confectioner — around  the  family 
mahogany  tree,  all  may  be  fanciful  decoration, 
and  not  half  enough  to  eat,  electric  light,  and 
a  la  with  attendance  charged  in  the  bill. 

The  only  way  to  stop  this  sort  of  thing  is  to 
bring  the  system  into  ridicule,  to  try  it  on  the 
groundlings.  A  fair  leader  of  ton^  late  in  the 
sixties,  appeared  one  morning  in  the  haunts  of 
fashion,  her  shapely  shoulders  covered  with  a  cape 
of  finest  Russian  sables,  to  the  general  admiration 
and  envy  of  all  her  compeers.     Thereupon,  what 


DINNER  75 

did  her  dearest  friend  and  (of  course)  most  deadly 
rival  do  ?  Get  a  similar  cape,  or  one  of  finer 
quality  ?  Not  a  bit  of  it.  She  drove  ofF,  then  and 
there,  to  her  furriers,  and  had  her  coachman  and 
footman  fitted  with  similar  capes,  in  (of  course) 
cheaper  material ;  and,  when  next  afternoon  she 
took  the  air  in  the  park,  in  her  perfectly  appointed 
landau,  her  fur-clad  menials  created  something 
like  a  panic  in  the  camp  of  her  enemy,  whilst  fur 
capes  for  fair  leaders  of  "  ton^''  were,  like  hashed 
venison  at  a  City  luncheon,  very  soon  "  hofF." 

It  is  extremely  probable  that,  could  it  be 
arranged  to  feed  our  starving  poor,  beneath  the 
public  gaze,  on  soles  Normandes^  cotelettes  a  la 
Reform^  and  salmi  de  gihier  truffi ;  to  feast  our 
workhouse  children  on  bisque  d'^ecrevisses  and 
Ananas  a  la  Creole^  the  upper  classes  of  Great 
Britain  would  soon  revert  to  plain  roast  and 
boiled. 

But  after  all  it  is  the  English  caterer  who  is 
chiefly  to  blame  for  his  own  undoing.  How  is 
it  that  in  what  may  be  called  the  "  food  streets  " 
of  the  metropolis  the  foreign  food-supplier  should 
outnumber  the  purveyor  of  the  Roast  Beef  of  Old 
England  in  the  proportion  of  fifty  to  one  ? 
Simply  because  the  Roast  Beef  of  Old  England 
has  become  almost  as  extinct  as  the  Dodo.  There 
are  but  few  English  kitchens,  at  this  end  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  in  the  which  meat  is  roasted 
in  front  of  the  fire. 

In  order  to  save  the  cost  of  fuel,  most  English 
(save  the  mark  !)  cooking  is  now  performed  by 
gas  or  steam  ;  and  at  many  large  establishments 
the  food,  whether  fish,  flesh,  fowl,  vegetables  or 


76  CAKES  AND  ALE 

pastry,  all  goes,  in  a  raw  state,  into  a  species  of 
chest  of  drawers  made  of  block-tin,  in  which 
receptacle  the  daily  luncheons,  dinners,  and 
suppers  are  steamed  and  robbed  of  all  flavour, 
save  that  of  hot  tin.  The  pity  of  it  !  Better, 
far  better  for  mankind  the  a  la  system  than 
to  be  gradually  "  steamed  "  into  the  tomb  ! 

It  is  alleged  that  as  good  results  in  the  way  of 
roasting  can  be  got  from  an  oven  as  from  the 
spit.  But  that  oven  must  be  ventilated — with 
both  an  inlet  and  an  outlet  ventilator,  for  one 
will  not  act  without  the  other.  It  is  also 
advisable  that  said  oven  should  be  cleaned  out 
occasionally  ;  for  a  hot  oven  with  no  joint  therein 
will  emit  odours  anything  but  agreeable,  if  not 
attended  to  ;  and  it  is  not  too  sweeping  a  state- 
ment to  say  that  the  majority  of  ovens  in  busy 
kitchens  are  foul.  The  system  of  steaming  food 
(the  alleged  "  roasts  "  being  subsequently  browned 
in  an  oven)  is  of  comparatively  recent  date  ;  but 
the  oven  as  a  roaster  was  the  invention  of  one 
Count  Rumford,  at  the  beginning  of  the  nine- 
teenth century.  In  one  of  his  lectures  on  oven- 
roasting,  this  nobleman  remarked  that  he  despaired 
of  getting  any  Englishman  to  believe  his  words ; 
so  that  he  was  evidently  confronted  with  plenty 
of  prejudice,  which  it  is  devoutly  to  be  prayed 
still  exists  in  English  homes.  For  I  do  vow  and 
protest  that  the  oven  odours  which  pervade  the 
neighbourhood  of  the  Strand,  London,  at  midday, 
are  by  no  means  calculated  to  whet  the  appetite 
of  the  would-be  luncher  or  diner.  This  is  what 
such  an  authority  as  Mr.  Buckmaster  wrote  on 
the  subject  of  the  spit  versus  the  oven  : 


DINNER  77 

"  I  believe  I  am  regarded  as  a  sort  of  heretic  on  the 
question  of  roasting  meat.  My  opinion  is  that  the 
essential  condition  of  good  roasting  is  constant  bast- 
ing, and  this  the  meat  is  not  likely  to  have  when  shut 
up  in  an  iron  box  ;  and  what  is  not  easily  done  is 
easily  neglected." 

In  this  connection  there  are  more  he^'etics 
than  Mr.  Buckmaster.  But  if  during  my  life- 
time the  days  of  burning  heretics  should  be 
revived,  I  shall  certainly  move  the  Court  of 
Criminal  Appeal  in  favour  of  being  roasted  or 
grilled  before,  or  over,  the  fire,  instead  of  being 
deprived  of  my  natural  juices  in  an  iron  box. 

Some  few  "  roast "  houses  are  still  in  existence 
in  London,  but  they  be  few  and  far  between  ; 
and  since  Mr.  Cooper  gave  up  the  "Albion," 
nearly  opposite  the  stage- door  of  Drury  Lane 
Theatre,  the  lover  of  good,  wholesome,  English 
food  has  lost  one  old-fashioned  tavern  in  the 
which  he  was  certain  of  enjoying  such  food. 

It  has  been  repeatedly  urged  in  favour  of 
French  cookery  that  it  is  so  economical.  But 
economy  in  the  preparation  of  food  is  by  no 
means  an  unmixed  blessing.  I  do  not  believe 
that  much  sole-leather  is  used  up  in  the  ordinary 
ragout,  or  salmi ;  but  many  of  us  who  can  afford 
more  expensive  joints  have  a  prejudice  against 
"  scrags " ;  whilst  the  tails  of  mutton  chops 
frequently  have  a  tainted  flavour,  and  the  drum- 
sticks and  backs  of  fowls  are  only  fit  to  grill,  or 
boil  down  into  gravy.  And  it  is  not  only  the 
alien  who  is  economical  in  his  preparation  of  the 
banquet.  Many  of  the  dwellers  in  the  highways 
and   byeways  of  our  great   metropolis   will  boil 


78  CAKES  AND  ALE 

down  the  outer  skin  of  a  ham,  and  place  a  portion 
thereof,  together  with  such  scraps  as  may  also  be 
purchased,  at  a  penny  or  twopence  the  plateful, 
at  the  ham  and  beef  emporium,  with  maybe  a 
"block  ornament"  or  two  from  the'^ butcher's, 
in  a  pie  dish,  with  a  superstructure  of  potatoes, 
and  have  the  "  scrap  pie  "  cooked  at  the  baker's  for 
the  Sunday  dinner.  Poor  wretches  !  Not  much 
"waste"  goes  on  in  such  households.  But  I 
have  known  the  "  gal "  who  tortured  the  food  in 
a  cheap  lodging-house  throw  away  the  water 
in  which  a  joint  had  just  been  boiled,  but  whether 
this  was  from  sheer  ignorance,  or  "  cussedness," 
or  the  desire  to  save  herself  any  future  labour  in 
the  concoction  of  soup,  deponent  sayeth  not.  By 
the  way,  it' is  in  the  matter  of  soup  that  the 
tastes  of  the  British  and  French  peasantry  differ 
so  materially.  Unless  he  or  she  be  absolutely 
starving,  it  is  next  to  impossible  to  get  one  of  the 
groundlings  of  old  England  to  attempt  a  basin  of 
soup.  And  when  they  do  attempt  the  same,  it 
has  been  already  made  for  them.  The  Scotch, 
who  are  born  cooks,  know  much  better  than  this  ; 
6ut  do  not,  O  reader,  if  at  all  thin  of  skin,  or 
/efined  of  ear,  listen  too  attentively  to  the  thanks 
which  a  denizen  of  the  "  disthressful  counthry  " 
will  bestow  upon  you  for  a  "  dhirty  bowl  o'  bone- 
juice." 

How  many  modern  diners,  we  wonder,  know 
the  original  object  of  placing  frills  around  the 
shank  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  mutton,  a  ham, 
the  shins  of  a  fowl,  or  the  bone  of  a  cutlet  ? 
Fingers  were  made  before — and  a  long  time 
before  —  forks.     In   the  seventeenth  century — 


DINNER  79 

prior  to  which  epoch  not  much  nicety  was 
observed  in  carving,  or  eating  —  we  read  that 
"  English  gentlewomen  were  instructed  by  school- 
mistresses and  professors  of  etiquette  as  to  the 
ways  in  which  it  behoved  them  to  carve  joints. 
That  she  might  be  able  to  grasp  a  roasted  chicken 
without  greasing  her  left  hand,  the  gentle  house- 
wife was  careful  to  trim  its  foot  and  the  lower 
part  of  its  legs  with  cut  paper.  The  paper  frill 
which  may  still  be  seen  round  the  bony  point 
and  small  end  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  is  a  memorial 
of  the  fashion  in  which  joints  were  dressed  for  the 
dainty  hands  of  lady-carvers,  in  time  prior  to  the 
introduction  of  the  carving-fork,  an  implement 
that  was  not  in  universal  use  so  late  as  the 
Commonwealth." 

How  long  we  should  sit  over  the  dinner-table 
is  a  matter  of  controversy.  At  the  commence- 
ment of  the  nineteenth  century,  in  the  hard- 
drinking  times,  our  forefathers  were  loth  indeed 
to  quit  the  table.  But  the  fairer  portion  of  the 
guests  were  accustomed  to  adjourn  early,  for  tea 
and  scandal  in  the  withdrawing-room,  the  while 
their  lords  sat  and  quarrelled  over  their  port,  with 
locked  doors  ;  and  where  they  fell  there  they 
frequentl^l^  passed  the  night.  The  editor  of  the 
Almanack  des  Gourmands  wrote  :  ''  Five  hours  at 
table  are  a  reasonable  latitude  to  allow  in  the  case 
of  a  large  party  and  recondite  cheer."  But  the 
worthy  Grimod  de  la  Reymiere,  the  editor  afore- 
said, lived  at  a  period  when  dinner  was  not  served 
as  late  as  8.30  p.m.  There  is  a  legend  of  an 
Archbishop  of  York  "  who  sat  three  entire  years 
at  dinner."     But  this  is  one  of  those  tales  which 


So  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Specially  suited  the  dull,  brandy-sodden  brains  of 
our  ancestors.  The  facts  are  simply  as  follows  : — 
the  archbishop  had  just  sat  down  to  dinner  at 
noon  when  an  Italian  priest  called.  Hearing  that 
the  dignitary  was  sitting  at  meat  the  priest  whiled 
away  an  hour  in  looking  at  the  minster,  and 
called  again,  but  was  again  "  repelled  by  the 
porter."  Twice  more  that  afternoon  did  the 
surly  porter  repel  the  Italian,  and  at  the  fourth 
visit  "  the  porter,  in  a  heate,  answered  never  a 
worde,  and  churlishlie  did  shutte  the  gates  upon 
him."  Then  the  discomfited  ItaHan  returned  to 
Rome  ;  and  three  years  later,  encountering  an 
EngHshman  in  the  Eternal  City,  who  declared 
himself  right  well  known  to  His  Grace  of  York, 
the  Italian,  all  smiles,  inquired  :  "  I  pray  you, 
good  sir,  hath  that  archbishop  finished  dinner 
yet  ?  "  Hence  the  story,  which  was  doubtless 
originally  told  by  a  fly- fisher. 

It  is  not  a  little  singular  that  with  increasing 
civilisation,  a  gong,  which  is  of  barbaric,  or  semi- 
barbaric  origin,  should  be  the  means  usually  em- 
ployed to  summon  us  to  the  dinner-table.  In 
days  of  yore  the  horn,  or  cornet,  was  blown  as 
the  signal.  Alexander  Dumas  tells  us  that  "at 
the  period  when  noon  was  the  dinner  hour,  the 
horn  or  cornet  [le  cor)  was  used  in  great  houses 
to  announce  dinner.  Hence  came  an  expression 
which  has  been  lost ;  they  used  to  say  cornet  (or 
trumpet)  the  dinner  {cornez  le  diner). ^^  And  we 
are  asked  to  believe  that  to  this  practice  "  corned  " 
beef  owes  its  derivation.  "  In  days  when  inferior 
people  ate  little  meat  in  the  winter  months  save 
salted  beef,  the  more  usual  form  of  the  order  was 


DINNER  8x 

cornez  le  bceuf^  or  'corn  the  beef.*  Richardson 
errs  egregiously  when  he  insists  that  corned  beef 
derived  its  distinguishing  epithet  from  the  grains 
or  corns  of  salt  with  which  it  was  pickled. 
Corned  beef  is  trumpeted  beef,  or  as  we  should 
nowadays  say,  dinner-bell  beef." 

Well — "I  hae  ma  doots,"  as  the  Scotsman 
said.  I  am  not  so  sure  that  Richardson  erred 
egregiously.  But  after  all,  as  long  as  the  beef  be 
good,  and  can  be  carved  without  the  aid  of  pick 
and  spade,  what  does  it  matter  l  Let  us  to 
dinner  ! 


CHAPTER  VIII 
DINNER  {continued) 

"  The  strong  table  groans 
Beneath  the  smoking  sirloin  stretched  immense.** 

A  merry  Christmas — Bin  F — A  Noel  banquet — Watercress- 
How  Royalty  fares — The  Tsar — Bouillabaisse — Tournedos — 
Bisque — Vol-au-vent — Pre  sale- — Chinese  banquets — A  fixed 
bayonet — Bernardin  salmi — The  duck-squeezer — American 
cookery — "  Borston  "  beans — He  couldn't  eat  beef. 

A  Christmas  dinner  in  the  early  Victorian  era  ! 
^elle  fete  magnifique  I  The  man  who  did  not 
keep  Christmas  in  a  fitting  manner  in  those  days 
was  not  thought  much  of.  "  Dines  by  himself 
at  the  club  on  Christmas  day  !  "  was  tiie  way 
the  late  Mr.  George  Payne  of  sporting  memory, 
summed  up  a  certain  middle-aged  recluse,  with 
heaps  of  money,  who,  although  he  had  two 
estates  in  the  country,  preferred  to  live  in  two 
small  rooms  in  St.  James's  Place,  S.W.,  and  to 
take  his  meals  at  "  Arthur's." 

And  how  we  boys  (not  to  mention  the  little 
lasses  in  white  frocks  and  black  mittens)  used  to 
overeat  oiirselves,  on  such  occasions,  with  no  f^ar 


DINNER  83 

of  pill,  draught,  or  "staying  in,"  before  our 
eyes  ! 

The  writer  has  in  his  mind's  eye  a  good 
specimen  of  such  an  old-fashioned  dinner,  as 
served  in  the  fifties.  It  was  pretty  much  the 
same  feast  every  Christmas.  We  commenced 
with  some  sort  of  clear  soup,  with  meat  in  it. 
Then  came  a  codfish,  crimped — the  head  of  that 
household  would  have  as  soon  thought  of  eating 
a  sole  au  vin  hlanc  as  of  putting  before  his  family 
an  uncrimped  cod — with  plenty  of  liver,  oyster 
sauce,  and  pickled  walnuts ;  and  at  the  other  end 
of  the  table  was  a  dish  of  fried  smelts.  Entrees  ? 
Had  any  of  the  diners  asked  for  an  entrie^  his  or 
her  exit  from  the  room  would  have  been  a  some- 
what rapid  one.  A  noble  sirloin  of  Scotch  beef 
faced  a  boiled  turkey  anointed  with  celery  sauce; 
and  then  appeared  the  blazing  pudding,  and  the 
mince-pies.  For  the  next  course,  a  dish  of 
toasted  (or  rather  stewed)  cheese,  home-made 
and  full  of  richness,  was  handed  round,  with  dry 
toast,  the  bearer  of  which  was  closely  pursued  by 
a  varlet  carrying  a  huge  double-handed  vessel  of 
hot  spiced-ale,  bobbing  or  floating  about  in  the 
which  were  roasted  crab -apples  and  sippets  of 
toast ;  and  it  was  de  rigueur  for  each  of  those 
who  sat  at  meat  to  extract  a  sippet,  to  eat  with 
the  cheese. 

How  the  old  retainer,  grey  and  plethoric  with 
service,  loved  us  boys,  and  how  he  would 
manoeuvre  to  obtain  for  us  the  tit-bits !  A  favoured 
servitor  was  "Joseph"  ;  and  though  my  revered 
progenitor  was  ostensibly  the  head  of  the  house, 
he  would,  on  occasion,  "  run  a  bad  second  "  to 


84  CAKES  AND  ALE 

"Joseph."  Memory  is  still  keen  of  a  certain 
chilly  evening  in  September,  when  the  ladies 
had  retired  to  the  drawing-room,  and  the  male 
guests  were  invited  to  be  seated  at  the  small 
table  which  had  been  wheeled  close  to  the 
replenished  fire. 

"Joseph,"  said  the  dear  old  man,  "bring  us  a 
bottle  or  two  of  the  yellow  seal — you  know — 
Bin  F." 

The  servitor  drew  near  to  his  master,  and  in  a 
stage  whisper  exclaimed : 

"  You  can't  afFord  it,  sir  !  ** 

"  What's  that  ? "  roared  the  indignant  old 
man. 

"  You  can't  afFord  it,  sir — Hawthornden's  won 
th'  Leger  !  " 

«  Good  Gad  !  "  A  pause— and  then,  "  Well, 
never  mind,  Joseph,  we'll  have  up  the  yellow 
seal,  all  the  same." 

One  of  the  writer's  last  Christmas  dinners  was 
partaken  of  in  a  sweet  little  house  in  Mayfair  ; 
and  affords  somewhat  of  a  contrast  with  the 
meal  quoted  above.  We  took  our  appetites  away 
with  a  salad  composed  of  anchovies,  capers, 
truffles,  and  other  things,  a  Russian  sardine  or 
two,  and  rolls  and  butter.  Thence  we  drifted 
into  Bouillabaisse  (a  tasty  but  bile  -  provoking 
broth),  toyed  with  some  filets  de  sole  a  la 
Parisienne  (good  but  greasy),  and  disposed  of  a 
tourmdos^  with  a  nice  fat  oyster  atop,  apiece  [et 
parlez-moi  d^fa  I).  Then  came  some  dickey- 
birds  sur  canape — alleged  to  be  snipe,  but  destitute 
of  flavour,  save  that  of  the  tin  they  had  been 
spoiled  in,  and  of  the  "canopy."     An  alien  cook 


DINNER  85 

can  not  cook  game,  whatever  choice  confections 
he  may  turn  out — at  least  that  is  the  experience 
of  the  writer.  We  had  cressons^  of  course,  with 
the  birds  ;  though  how  water-cress  can  possibly 
assimilate  with  the  flesh  of  a  snipe  is  questionable. 
"  Water-creases "  are  all  very  well  at  tea  in 
the  arbour,  but  don't  go  smoothly  with  any 
sort  of  fowl  J  and  to  put  such  rank  stuff  into 
a  salad — as  my  hostess's  cook  did — is  absolutely 
criminal. 

To  continue  the  Mayfair  banquet,  the  salad 
was  followed  by  a  souffiee  a  la  Noel  (which  re- 
minded some  of  the  more  imaginative  of  our 
party  of  the  festive  season),  some  cheese  straws, 
and  the  customary  ices,  coffee,  and  liqueurs. 
On  the  whole,  not  a  bad  meal  ;  but  what  would 
old  Father  Christmas  have  said  thereto  ?  What 
would  my  revered  progenitor  have  remarked, 
had  he  been  allowed  to  revisit  the  glimpses  of 
the  moon  }  He  did  not  love  our  lively  neigh- 
bours ;  and,  upon  the  only  occasion  on  which  he 
was  inveigled  across  the  Channel,  took  especial 
care  to  recross  it  the  very  next  day,  lest,  through 
circumstances   not    under    his    own    control,   he 

might  come  to  be  "buried  amongst  these  d d 

French  !  " 

The  following  menu  may  give  some  idea  as  to 
how 

Royalty 

entertains  its  guests.  Said  menu^  as  will  be  seen, 
is  comparatively  simple,  and  many  of  the  dishes 
are  French  only  in  name  : — 


86  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Huitres 

Consomme  aux  ceufs  poches 
Bisque  d'ecrevisses 

Turbot,  sauce  d'homard 
Fillets  de  saumon  a  I'lndienne 


Vol-au-vent  Financi^re 
Mauviettes  sur  le  Nid 

Selle  dc  mouton  de  Galles  rotie 
Poulardes  k  TEstragon 

Faisans 
Becassines  sur  croute 


Chouxfleur  au  gratin 


Plum  Pudding 
Bavarois  aux  abricots 


Glace  k  la  Mocha 

Truly  a  pattern  dinner,  this  ;  and  'twould  be 
sheer  impertinence  to  comment  thereon,  beyond 
remarking  that  English  dishes  should,  in  common 
fairness,  be  called  by  English  names. 

Her  Imperial  Majesty  the  Tsaritza,  on  the 
night  of  her  arrival  at  Darmstadt,  in  October 
1896,  sat  down,  together  with  her  august  husband, 
to  the  following  simple  meal ; — 


DINNER  87 

Consomme  de  Volaille     Cronstades  d'ecrevisses 


Filet  de  Turbot  h.  la  Joinville 


Cimier  de  Chevreuil 
[A  haunch  of  Roebuck  is  far  to  be  desired  above 
the  same  quarter  of  the  red  deer]. 


Terrine  de  Perdreaux 


Ponche  Royale 


Poularde  de  Metz 


Choux  de  Bruxelles 


Bavarois  aux  Abricots 


Glaces  Panachees 

The  partiality  of  crowned  heads  towards 
"  Bavarois  aux  Abricots  " — "  Bavarois  "  is  simply 
Bavarian  cheese,  a  superior  sort  of  blanc  mange — 
is  proverbial.  And  the  above  repast  was  served 
on  priceless  Meissen  china  and  silver.  The 
only  remarks  I  will  make  upon  the  above  menu 
are  that  it  is  quite  possible  that  the  capon  may 
have  come  from  Metz,  though  not  very  probable. 
French  cooks  name  their  meat  and  poultry  in 
the  most  reckless  fashion.  For  instance,  owing 
to  this  /eckless  nomenclature  the  ^belief  has 
grown  that  the  best  ducks  come  from  Rouen. 
Nothing  of  the  sort.  There  are  just  as  good 
ducks  raised  at  West  Hartlepool  as  at  Rouen. 
"  Rouen  "  in  the  bill-of-fare  is  simply  a  corrup- 


88  CAKES  AND  ALE 

tion  of  "roan  "  ;  and  a  "roan  duck  "  is  a  quacker 
who  has  assumed  (through  crossing)  the  reddish 
plumage  of  the  wild  bird.  As  for  (alleged)  Surrey 
fowls,  most  of  them  come  from  Heathiield  in 
Sussex,  whence  ^142,000  worth  were  sent  in 
1896. 

Let  us  enquire  into  the  composition  of  some 
of  the  high-sounding  plats^  served  up  by  the 
average  chef. 

Bouillabaisse, — Of  it  Thackeray  sang — 

"  This  Bouillabaisse  a  noble  dish  is — 
A  sort  of  soup,  or  broth,  or  brew, 

Or  hotch-potch  of  all  sorts  of  fishes 
That  Greenwich  never  could  outdo  : 

Green  herbs,  red  peppers,  mussels,  saffron, 

Soles,  onions,  garlic,  roach,  and  dace  ; 

All  these  you  eat  at  Terre's  tavern, 
In  that  one  dish  of  Bouillabaisse." 

Avoid  eels  and  herrings  in  this  concoction  as 
too  oily.  Soles,  mullet,  John  Dory,  v^rhiting, 
flounders,  perch,  roach,  and  mussels  will  blend 
well,  and  allow  half  a  pound  of  fish  for  each 
person.  For  every  pound  of  fish  put  in  the 
stewpan  a  pint  of  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  salad  oil.  If 
there  be  four  partakers,  add  two  sHced  onions, 
two  cloves,  two  bay-leaves,  two  leeks  (the  white 
part  only,  chopped),  four  cloves  of  garlic,  a 
table-spoonful  chopped  parsley,  a  good  squeeze 
of  lemon  juice,  half  an  ounce  of  chopped  capsi- 
cums, a  teaspoonful  (or  more  ad  lib.)  of  saffron, 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  the  chopped  fish  in 
all  this,  and   boil  for  half  an  hour.      Let   the 


DINNER  89 

mixture  "  gallop "  and  strain  into  a  tureen  with 
sippets,  and  the  fish  served  separately. 

Tournedos — No  relation  to  tornado,  and  you 
won't  find  the  word  in  any  Gallic  dictionary. 
A  tournedos  is  a  thin  collop  of  beef,  steeped  in 
a  marinade  for  twenty-four  hours  (personally  I 
prefer  it  without  the  aid  of  the  marine)  and  fried 
lightly.  Turn  it  but  once.  The  oyster  atop  is 
simply  scalded.      Try  this  dish. 

Bisque. — In  the  seventeenth  century  this  was 
made  from  pigeons  by  the  poor  barbarians  who 
knew  not  the  gentle  lobster,  nor  the  confiding 
crayfish.  Heat  up  to  boiling-point  a  Mirepoix 
of  white  wine.     You  don't  know  what  a 

Mirepoix 

is  ?  Simply  a  taggot  of  vegetables,  named  after 
a  notorious  cuckold  of  noble  birth  in  the  time 
of  Louis  XV.  Two  carrots,  two  onions,  two 
shalots,  two  bay-leaves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  a 
clove  of  garlic.  Mince  very  small,  with  half  a 
pound  of  fat  bacon,  half  a  pound  of  raw  ham, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  butter.  Add  a 
sufficiency  of  white  wine.  In  this  mixture 
cook  two  dozen  crayfish  for  twenty  minutes, 
continually  tossing  them  about  till  red,  when 
take  them  out  to  cool.  Shell  them,  all  but  the 
claws,  which  should  be  pounded  in  a  mortar  and 
mixed  with  butter.  The  flesh  of  the  tails  is 
reserved  to  be  put  in  the  soup  at  the  last  minute ; 
the  body-flesh  goes  back  into  the  mirepoix^  to 
which  two  quarts  of  broth  are  now  added.  Add 
the  pounded  shells  to  the  soup,  simmer  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  strain,  heat  up,  add  a  piece  of 


90  CAKES  AND  ALE 

butter,  the  tails,  a  seasoning  of  cayenne,  and  a 
few  quenelles  of  whiting. 

Vol-au-vent  Financiere, — This  always  reminds 
me  of  the  fearful  threat  hurled  by  the  waiter  in 
the  "  Bab  Ballads  "  at  his  flighty  sweetheart : 

**  Flirtez  toujours,  ma  belle,  si  tu  oses, 
Je  me  vengerai  ainsi,  ma  ch^re  : 
Je  lui  dirai  d'quoi  on  compose 
Vol-au-vent  \  la  Financiere  !  " 

Make  your  crust — light  as  air,  and  flaky  as  snow, 
an  you  value  your  situation — and  fill  with  button 
mushrooms,  truffles,  cock's-combs,  quenelles  of  chicken, 
and  sweetbread,  all  chopped,  seasoned,  and  moistened 
with  a  butter  sauce.  Brown  gravy  is  objection- 
able. Garnish  the  Vol  with  fried  parsley,  which 
which  goes  well  with  most  luxuries  of  this  sort. 

There  are  some  words  which  occur  frequently 
in  French  cookery  which,  to  the  ordinary  per- 
fidious Briton,  are  cruelly  misleading.  For 
years  I  was  under  the  impression  that  Brillat 
Savarin  was  a  species  of  filleted  fish  (brill)  in  a 
rich  gravy,  instead  of  a  French  magistrate,  who 
treated  gastronomy  poetically,  and  always  ate  his 
food  too  fast.  And  only  within  the  last  decade 
have  I  discovered  what  a 

Pre  Sale 

really  means.  Literally,  it  is  "salt  meadow,  or 
marsh."  It  is  said  that  sheep  fed  on  a  salt  marsh 
make  excellent  mutton  ;  but  is  it  not  about  time 
for  Britannia,  the  alleged  pride  of  the  ocean,  and 
ruler  of  its  billows,  to  put  her  foot  down  and 
protest  against  a  leg  of  "prime   Down" — but 


DINNER  91 

recently  landed  from  the  Antipodes  —  being 
described  on  the  card  as  a  Gigot  de  pre  sale  ? 

The  meals,  like  the  ways,  of  the  "  Heathen 
Chinee "  are  peculiar.  Some  of  his  food,  to 
quote  poor  Corney  Grain,  is  ''absolutely  beastly." 

Li  Hung  Chang 

was  welcomed  to  Carlton  House  Terrace,  London, 
with  a  dinner,  in  twelve  courses,  the  following 
being  the  principal  items:  —  Roast  duck,  roast 
pork  and  raspberry  jam,  followed  by  dressed 
cucumber.  Shrimps  were  devoured,  armour  and 
all,  with  leeks,  gherkins,  and  mushrooms.  A 
couple  of  young  chickens  preserved  in  wine  and 
vinegar,  with  green  peas,  a  puree  of  pigeon's  legs 
followed  by  an  assortment  of  sour  jellies.  The 
banquet  concluded  with  sponge  cakes  and  tea. 
In  his  own  land  the 

Chinaman^ s  Evening  Repast 

is  much  more  variegated  than  the  above.  It  is 
almost  as  long  as  a  Chinese  drama,  and  includes 
melon  seeds,  bitter  almonds,  bamboo  sprouts, 
jelly-fish,  cucumber,  roast  duck,  chicken  stewed 
in  spirit  dregs,^  peas,  prawns,  sausages,  scalleons, 
fish-brawn,  pork  chops,  plum  blossoms,  oranges, 
bird*s-nest  soup,  pigeons'  eggs  in  bean  curd — the 
eggs  being  "  postponed  "  ones — fungus,  shrimps, 
macerated  fish-fins,  ham  in  flour,  ham  in  honey, 
turnip  cakes,  roast  sucking-pig,  fish  maws,  roast 

^  This  dish  must  somewhat  resemble  the  "Fixed  Bayonet," 
which  at  one  time  was  the  favourite  tit-bit  of  "  Tommy  Atkins," 
when  quartered  in  India.  It  consisted  of  a  fowl,  stuffed  with 
green  chilis,  and  boiled  in  rum.  The  fowl  was  picked  to  the 
bones,  and  the  soldier  wound  up  with  the  soup.  Very  tasty  ! 
H 


9*  CAKES  AND  ALE 

mutton,  wild  ducks'  feet,  water  chestnuts,  egg 
rolls,  lily  seeds,  stewed  mushrooms,  dressed  crab 
with  jam,  chrysanthemum  pasties,  heche-de-mer^ 
and  pigs'  feet  in  honey.  Can  it  be  wondered  at 
that  this  nation  should  have  been  brought  to  its 
knees  by  gallant  little  Japan  ? 

The  Englishman  in  China 

has  not  a  particularly  good  time  of  it,  in  the 
gastronomic  way,  and  H.M.  forces  in  Hong 
Kong  are  largely  dependent  on  Shanghai  for 
supplies.  There  is  "plenty  pig"  all  over  the 
land  ;  but  the  dairy-fed  pork  of  old  England  is 
preferable.  And  the  way  "this  little  pig  goes 
to  market "  savours  so  strongly  of  the  most 
refined  cruelty  that  a  branch  of  the  R.S.P.C.A. 
would  have  the  busiest  of  times  of  it  over  yonder. 
Reverting  to  French  cookery,  here  is  an 
appetising  dish,  called  a 

Bernardin  Salmi, 

It  should  be  prepared  in  the  dining-room,  before 
the  eyes  of  the  guests  j  and  Grimod  de  la 
Reyniere  (to  whom  the  recipe  was  given  by  the 
prior  of  an  abbey  of  Bernardin  monks)  recom- 
mends that  the  salmi  should  be  conveyed  to  the 
mouth  with  a  fork,  for  fear  of  devouring  one's 
fingers,  should  they  touch  the  sauce. 

Take  three  woodcocks,  underdone,  and  cut  them 
into  neat  portions.  On  a  silver  dish  bruise  the 
livers  and  trails,  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of 
four  (?)  lemons,  and  grate  over  them  a  little  of  the 
thin  rind.  Add  the  portions  of  woodcock,  seasoned 
with  salt,  and — according  to  the  prior — mixed  spices 


DINNER  93 

and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  French  mustard ;  but  the 
writer  would  substitute  cayenne  seul :  over  all  half 
a  wine-glass  of  sherry  ;  and  then  put  the  dish  over 
a  spirit  lamp.  When  the  mixture  is  nearly  boiling, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil,  blow  out  the  light, 
and  stir  well.  Four  lemons  are  mentioned  in  this 
recipe,  as  at  the  time  it  was  written  lemons  were 
very  small  when  "  cocks  "  were  "  in."  7wo  imported 
lemons  (or  limes)  will  amply  suffice  nowadays. 

A  Salmi  of  Wild  Duck 

can  be  made  almost  in  the  same  way,  but  here 
the  aid  of  that  modern  instrument  the  Duck- 
Squeezer  is  necessary. 

Cut  the  best  of  the  meat  in  slices,  off  a  lightly- 
roasted  wild-duck,  after  brought  to  table  ;  break  up 
the  carcase  and  place  in  a  species  of  mill  (silver) 
called  a  "duck-squeezer,"  which  possesses  a  spout 
through  which  the  richness  of  the  animal  escapes, 
after  being  squeezed.  Make  a  gravy  of  this  liquor, 
in  a  silver  dish  (with  a  spirit  lamp  beneath),  added 
to  a  small  pat  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a 
table-spoonful  of  Worcester  sauce,  with  cayenne  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  half  a  wine-glassful  of  port  wine. 
Warm  the  meat  through  in  this  gravy,  which  mus 
not  boil. 

Of  course  these  two  last-named  dishes  are  only 
intended  for  bachelor- parties.  Lovely  woman 
must  not  be  kept  waiting  for  "  duck-squeezers  " 
or  anything  else. 

The  Jesuits 

introduced  the  turkey  into  Europe,  of  which 
feat  the  Jesuits  need  not  boast  too  much  j  for  to 


94  CAKK6  AND  ALE 

some  minds  there  be  many  better  edible  birds ;  and 
the  "  gobbler  "  requires,  when  roasted  or  boiled, 
plenty  of  seasoning  to  make  him  palatable.  The 
French  stuiF  him  in  his  roasted  state,  with 
truffles,  fat  forcemeat,  or  chestnuts,  and  invariably 
"  bard  "  the  bird — "  bard  "  is  old  English  as  well 
as  old  French — with  fat  bacon.  The  French 
turkey  is  also  frequently  brazed,  with  an  abundant 
mirepoix  made  with  what  their  cooks  call 
"Madere,"  but  which  is  really  Marsala.  It  is 
only  we  English  who  boil  the  "  gobbler,"  and 
stuff  him  (or  her,  for  it  is  the  hen  who  usually 
goes  into  the  pot)  with  oysters,  or  forcemeat, 
with  celery  sauce.  Probably  the  best  parts  of 
the  turkey  are  his  legs,  when  grilled  for  breakfast, 
and  smothered  with  the  sauce  mentioned  in  one 
of  the  chapters  on  "  Breakfast "  ;  and 

Pulled  Turkey 

makes  an  agreeable  luncheon -dish,  or  entrh  at 
dinner,  the  breast-meat  being  pulled  off  the  bone 
with  a  fork,  and  fricasseed,  surrounded  in  the  dish 
by  the  grilled  thighs  and  pinions. 

Who  introduced  the  turkey  into  America 
deponent  sayeth  not.  Probably,  like  Topsy, 
it  "  growed "  there.  Anyhow  the  bird  is  so 
familiar  a  table-companion  in  the  States,  that 
Americans,  when  on  tour  in  Europe,  light  very 
shy  of  him.  "Tukkey,  sah,  cranberry  sarce," 
used  to  be  the  stereotyped  reply  of  the  black 
waiter  when  interrogated  on  the  subject  of  the 
bill  of  fare. 

Coloured  Help 

is,  however,    gradually    being   ousted    (together 


DINNER  95 

with  sulphur  matches)  from  the  big  hotels  in 
New  York,  where  white  waiting  and  white  food 
are  coming  into,  or  have  come  into,  regular  use. 
In  fact,  with  the  occasional  addition  of  one  or 
other  of  such  special  dishes  as  terrapin,  soft-shell 
crab,  clam  chowder,  and  the  everlasting  pork 
and  beans,  a  dinner  in  New  York  diiFers  very 
little  at  the  time  of  writing  (1897)  from  one  in 
London.     The  taste  for 

Clam  Chowder 

is  an  acquired  one,  nor  will  stewed  tortoise  ever 
rank  with  thick  turtle  in  British  estimation, 
although  'tis  not  the  same  tortoise  which  is  used  in 
London  households  to  break  the  coals  with.     A 

Canvass-back  Duck^ 

if  eaten  in  the  land  of  his  birth,  is  decidedly  the 
most  delicately-flavoured  of  all  the  "Quack" 
family.  His  favourite  food  is  said  to  be  wild 
celery,  and  his  favoured  haunts  the  neighbourhood 
of  Chesapeake  Bay,  from  whose  waters  comes 
the  much  prized  "  diamond -back "  terrapin, 
which  is  sold  at  the  rate  of  50$  or  60S  the  dozen. 
The  canvass-back  duck,  however,  suffers  in  trans- 
portation ;  in  fact,  the  tendency  of  the  ice-house 
aboard  ship  is  to  rob  all  food  of  its  flavour. 
But  however  good  be  the  living  in 

New  Tork  City 

— where  the  hotels  are  the  best  in  the  world,  and 
whose  Mr.  Delmonico  can  give  points  to  all 
sorts  and  conditions  of  food  caterers — it  is  "a 
"bit  rough "  in  the  provinces.     There  is  a  story 


9(5  CAKES  AND  ALE 

told  of  a  young  actor,  on  tour,  who  "struck" 
a  small  town  out  West,  and  put  up  at  a  small 
inn.  In  the  course  of  time  dinner  was  served, 
and  the  landlord  waited  at  table.  The  principal 
cover  was  removed,  disclosing  a  fine  joint  of 
coarsish,  indifFerently-coolced  beef.  Our  young 
actor  was  strangely  moved  at  the  sight. 

"  What  ?  "  he  cried.  "  Beef  again  ?  This  is 
horrible  !  I've  seen  no  other  food  for  months, 
and  Vm  sick  and  tired  of  it.     I  can't  eat  beef." 

Whereupon  his  host  whipped  out  a  huge 
"  six-shooter  "  revolver,  and  covering  the  recalci- 
trant beef-eater,  coolly  remarked  : 

"  Guess  you  kin  !  " 

But  I  don't  believe  that  story,  any  more  than 
I  believe  the  anecdote  of  the  cowboys  and  the 
daylight  let  through  the  visitor  who  couldn't  eat 
beans. 


CHAPTER   IX 
DINNER   [continued) 

"The  combat  deepens.     On  ye  brave, 
The  cordon  bleu,  and  then  the  grave  ! 
Wave,  landlord  !  all  thy  menus  wave. 
And  charge  with  all  thy  devilry  ! " 

French  soup — A  regimental  dinner — A  city  banquet — Baksheesh — 
Aboard  ship — An  ideal  dinner — Cod's  liver — Sleeping  in  the 
kitchen — A  fiicandeau  —  Regimental  messes  —  Peter  the 
Great — Napoleon  the  Great — Victoria — The  Iron  Duke — 
Mushrooms — A  medical  opinion — A  North  Pole  banquet — 
Dogs  as  food — Plain  unvarnished  fare — The  Kent  Road 
cookery — More  beans  than  bacon. 

"  What's  in  a  name  ?  "  inquired  the  love-sick 
Juliet.  "  What .?  "  echoes  the  bad  fairy  "  Ala'' 
After  all  the  fuss  made  by  the  French  over  their 
soups,  we  might  expect  more  variety  than  is 
given  us.  If  it  be  true  that  we  English  have  only 
one  sauce,  it  is  equally  true  that  our  lively  neigh- 
bours have  only  one  soup — and  that  one  is  a  broth. 
It  is  known  to  the  frequenters  of  restaurants 
under  at  least  eleven  different  na.mes  :  ^Brunoise^ 
Jardiniere^    Printanier^    Chiffonadey    Macedoine^ 


98  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Julienne^  Fauhonne^  Paysanne^  Flamande^  Mlton- 
nage^  Croute  au  Pot^  and,  as  Sam  Weller  would 
say,  "  It's  the  flavouring  as  does  it."  It  is  simply 
bouillon^  plain  broth,  and  weak  at  that.  The 
addition  of  a  cabbage,  or  a  leek,  or  a  common 
or  beggar's  crust,  will  change  a  potage  a  la 
yard'in'iere  into  a  Croute  au  Pot^  and  vice  versa. 
Great  is  "  Ma "  j  and  five  hundred  per  cent  is 
her  profit ! 

The  amount  of  money  lavished  by  diners- 
about  upon  the  productions  of  the  alien  chef 
would  be  ludicrous  to  consider,  were  not  the 
extravagance  absolutely  criminal.  The  writer 
has  partaken  of  about  the  most  expensive  dinner — 
English  for  the  most  part,  with  French  names  to 
the  dishes — that  could  be  put  on  the  table,  the 
charge  being  (including  wines)  one  guinea  per 
mouth.  Another  banquet,  given  by  a  gay  youth 
who  had  acquired  a  large  sum  through  ruining 
somebody  else  on  the  Stock  Exchange — the  meal 
positively  reeking  of  Ala — was  charged  for  by 
the  hotel  manager  at  the  rate  of  sixteen  pounds  per 
head,  also  including  wines.  I  was  told  afterwards, 
though  I  am  still  sceptical  as  to  the  veracity  of 
the  statement,  that  the  flowers  on  the  table  at 
that  banquet  cost  alone  more  than  ;f  75.  And 
only  on  the  previous  Sunday,  our  host's  father 
—  a  just  nobleman  and  a  God-fearing  —  had 
delivered  a  lecture,  at  a  popular  institution,  on 
"Thrift." 

Here  follows  the  menu  of  the  above-mentioned 
guinea  meal, 


DINNER 


99 


A  Regimental  Dinner^ 
held  at  a  well-known  city  house. 

Vim.  Hon  (fCEuvrei. 

Crevettes.     Thon  Marine. 
Radis. 


Maderc. 


Ponche  Glace. 


Schloss  Johannisbcrg. 


Amontillado. 


Champagne. 

Piper  Heidsieck,  1884. 

Boll  et  Cie.,  1884. 
Burgundy. 

Romanee,  1855. 


Port,  1851. 

Claret. 

Chateau  Leoville. 

Liqueurs. 


Beurre. 


Potages, 
Tortuf  Claire  et  Lice. 
Gras  de  Tortue  Vert. 

Relcves  de  Tortue. 
Ailerons  aux  fines  Herbes. 
Cotelettes  a  la  Perigueux. 

Poisxns. 

Souche  de  Saumon. 

Turbot  au  Vin  Blanc. 

Blanchaille  Nature  et  Karl. 

Entrees. 

Supreme  de  Ris  de  Veau  a  la  Princessc. 

Aspic  de  Homard. 

Releves. 

Venaison,  Sauce  Groseille. 

York  Ham  au  Champagne. 

Poulardes  a  I'Estragon. 


Asperges.     Haricots  Verts. 
Pommes  Rissoliees. 

Rot. 
Canetons  de  Rouen. 

Entremets. 

Ananas  a  la  Creole.  Patisserie  Parisienne. 

Gelecs  Panachees. 

Glace. 
Souffles  aux  Praises. 

Dessert,  etc. 


And  some  of  the  younger  officers  complained 
bitterly  at  having  to  pay  ^^i  :  is.  for  the  privilege 
of"  larking"  over  such  a  course  ! 


tod  CAKES  AND  AL^ 

There  are  only  three  faults  I  can  find  in  the 
above  programme  :  ( i )  Confusion  to  the  man 
who  expects  the  British  Army  to  swallow  green 
fat  in  French.  (2)  Whitebait  is  far  too  delicately 
flavoured  a  fowl  to  curry.  (3)  Too  much  eating 
and  drinking. 

City  Dinners 

are  for  the  most  part  an  infliction  (or  aflliction) 
on  the  diner.  With  more  than  fourscore  sitting 
at  meat,  the  miracle  of  the  loaves  and  fishes  is 
repeated — with,  frequently,  the  fish  left  out. 

''  I  give  you  my  word,  dear  old  chappie,"  once 
exclaimed  a  gilded  youth  who  had  been  assisting 
at  one  of  these  functions,  to  the  writer,  "  all  I 
could  get  hold  of,  during  the  struggle,  was  an 
orange  and  a  cold  plate  ! " 

The  great  and  powerful  system  of 

Baksheesh^ 
of  course,  enters  largely  into  these  public  enter- 
tainments ;  and  the  man  who  omits  to  fee  the 
waiter  in  advance,  as  a  rule,  "  gets  left."  Book- 
makers and  others  who  go  racing  are  the 
greatest  sinners  in  this  respect.  A  well-known 
magnate  of  the  betting-ring  (1896)  invariably, 
after  arriving  at  an  hotel,  hunts  up  the  chefy  and 
sheds  upon  him  a  "  fiver,"  or  a  "  tenner,"  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  house,  and  the  repute  of  its 
cookery.  And  that  metallician  and  his  party 
are  not  likely  to  starve  during  their  stay, 
whatever  may  be  the  fate  of  those  who  omit  to 
"  remember  "  the  Commissariat  Department.  I 
have  seen  the  same  bookmaker  carry,  with  his  own 
hands,  the  remains  of  a  great  dish  of  "  Hot-pot  " 


DINNER  i6l 

into  the  dining-room  of  his  neighbours,  who  had 
been  ringing  for  a  waiter,  and  clamouring  for 
food  for  the  best  part  of  an  hour,  without  effect. 
The  same  system  prevails  aboard  ship  ;  and 
the  passenger  who  has  not  propitiated  the  head 
steward  at  the  commencement  of  the  voyage 
will  not  fare  sumptuously.  The  steamship  com- 
panies may  deny  this  statement  ^  but  'tis  true 
nevertheless. 

Dinner  Afloat, 

Here  is  an  average  dinner-card  during  a  life 
on  the  ocean  wave  : 

Julienne  soup,  boiled  salmon  with  shrimp  sauce, 
roast  beef  and  Yorkshire  pudding,  jugged  hare, 
French  beans  a  la  Maitre  d^Hotel,  chicken  curry, 
roast  turkey  with  puree  of  chestnuts,  fanchouettes 
(what  are  they  ? ),  sausage  rolls,  greengage  tarts, 
plum-puddings,  lemon -jellies,  biscuits  and  cheese, 
fruit,  coffiM*, 

Plenty  of  variety  here,  though  some  epicures 
might  resent  the  presence  of  a  sausage-roll  (the 
common  or  railway-station  bag  of  mystery)  on 
the  dinner  table.  But  since  the  carriage  of  Hve 
stock  aboard  passenger  ships  has  been  abandoned, 
the  living  is  not  nearly  as  good  ;  for,  as  before 
observed,  the  tendency  of  the  ice-house  is  to 
make  all  flesh  taste  alike.  Civilisation  has, 
doubtless,  done  wonders  for  us  ;  but  most  people 
prefer  mutton  to  have  a  flavour  distinct  from 
that  of  beef. 

^y  Ideal  Dinner 

was  partaken  of  in  a  little  old-fashioned  hostelry 


102  CAKES  AND  ALE 

(at  the  west  end  of  London),  whose  name  the 
concentrated  efforts  of  all  the  wild  horses  in  the 
world  would  not  extract.  Familiarity  breeds 
contempt,  and  publicity  oft  kills  that  which 
is  brought  to  light.  Our  host  was  a  wine- 
merchant  in  a  large  way  of  business. 

"  I  can  only  promise  you  plain  food,  good  sirs," 
he  mentioned,  in  advance — "no  foreign  kick- 
shaws ',  but  everything  done  to  a  turn." 

Six  of  us  started  with  clear  turtle,  followed  by 
a  thick  wedge  out  of  the  middle  of  a  patriarchal 
codfish,  with  plenty  of  liver.  And  here  a  pause 
must  be  made.  In  not  one  cookery-book  known 
to  mankind  can  be  found  a  recipe  for  cooking  the 

Liver  of  a  Cod, 

Of  course  it  should  not  be  cooked  with  the  fish, 
but  in  a  separate  vessel.  The  writer  once  went 
the  rounds  of  the  kitchens  to  obtain  information 
on  this  point. 

"  'Bout  half-an-hour,"  said  one  cook,  a  "  hard- 
bitten "  looking  food-spoiler. 

"  Ma  foi !  I  cook  not  at  all  the  liver  of  the 
cod,"  said  an  unshorn  son  of  Normandy.  "  He 
is  for  the  malade  only." 

AfteJ^'  asking  a  number  of  questions,  and  a 
journey  literally  "  round  the  town,"  the  deduction 
made  from  the  various  answers  was  that  a  piece 
of  liver  enough  for  six  people  would  take  eight- 
een minutes,  after  being  placed  in  boiling  water. 

To  continue  with  our  dinner.  No  sauce 
with  the  oysters,  but  these  simply  scalded  in 
their  own  liquor.  Then  came  on  a  monster 
steak,  an  inch  thick,  cut  from  the  rump  immedi- 


DINNER  103 

ately  before  being  placed  on  the  gridiron.  And 
here  a  word  on  the  grilling  of  a  steak.  We 
English  place  it  nearer  the  fire  than  do  our 
lively  neighbours,  whose  grills  do  not,  in  conse- 
quence, present  that  firm  surface  which  is  the 
charm  of  an  English  steak.  The -late  Mr. 
Godfrey  Turner  of  the  Daily  Telegraph  (who 
was  almost  as  great  an  authority  as  Mr.  Sala 
on  gastronomies)  once  observed  to  the  writer, 
"Never  turn  your  steak,  or  chop,  more  than 
once."  Though  by  no  means  a  disciple  of 
Ala^  he  was  evidently  a  believer  in  the  French 
method  of  grilling,  which  leaves  a  sodden,  flabby 
surface  on  the  meat.  The  French  cook  only 
turns  a  steak  once  j  but  if  he  had  his  gridiron  as 
close  to  the  fire  as  his  English  rival,  the  chef 
would  inevitably  cremate  his  morgeau  (Tbceuf.  I 
take  it  that  in  grilling,  as  in  roasting,  the  meat 
should,  in  the  first  instance,  almost  touch  the 
glowing  embers. 

We  had  nothing  but  horse-radish  with  our 
steak,  which  was  succeeded  by  golden  plovers 
(about  the  best  bird  that  flies)  and  marrow 
bones.  And  a  dig  into  a  ripe  Stilton  concluded 
a  banquet  which  we  would  not  have  exchanged 
for  the  best  efforts  of  FrancatelH  himself. 

Yes — despite  the  efforts  of  the  bad  fairy  Jla^ 
the  English  method  of  cooking  good  food — if 
deftly  and  properly  employed — is  a  long  way  the 
better  method,  •  Unfortunately,  through  the  fault 
of  the  English  themselves,  this  method  is  but 
seldom  employed  deftly  or  properly.  And  at  a 
cheap  English  eating-house  the  kitchen  is  usu- 
ally as  dirty  and  malodorous  as  at  an  inexpensive 


I04  CAKES  AND  ALE 

foreign  restaurant.  As  both  invariably  serve  as 
sleeping  apartments  during  the  silent  watches  of 
the  night,  this  is,  perhaps,  not  altogether  to  be 
wondered  at. 

But  there  is  one  plat  in  the  French  cookery 
book  w^hich  is  not  to  be  sneered  at,  or  even  con- 
demned vv^ith  faint  praise.  A  properly-dressed 
fricandeau  is  a  dainty  morsel  indeed.  In  fact  the 
word  fricand  means,  in  English,  "dainty." 
Here  is  the  recipe  of  the  celebrated  Gouffe  for 
the  Fricandeau  : 

Three  pounds  of  veal  fillet,  trimmed,  and  larded 
with  fat  bacon.  Put  in  the  glazing  stewpan  the 
trimmings,  two  ounces  of  sliced  carrot,  two  ditto 
onion,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  the  fricandeau  on 
the  top  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  broth  ;  boil  the  broth 
till  it  is  reduced  and  becomes  thick  and  yellow  ; 
add  a  pint  and  a  half  more  broth,  and  simmer  for  an 
hour  and  a  quarter  —  the  stewpan  half  covered 
Then  close  the  stewpan  and  put  live  coals  on  the 
top.  Baste  the  fricandeau  with  the  gravy — pre- 
sumably after  the  removal  of  the  dead  coals — every 
four  minutes  till  it  is  sufficiently  glazed  ;  then  take 
it  out  and  place  on  a  dish.  Strain  the  gravy,  skim 
off  the  fat,  and  pour  over  the  meat.  It  may  be 
added  that  a  spirit  lamp  beneath  the  dish  is  (or 
should  be)  de  rigueur. 

In  their  clubs,  those  (alleged)  "  gilded  saloons 
of  profligacy  and  debauchery,  favoured  of  the 
aristocracy,"  men,  as  a  rule  dine  wisely,  and  well, 
and,  moreover,  cheaply.  The  extravagant  diner- 
out,  with  his  crude  views  on  the  eternal  fitness 
of  things,  selects  an  hotel,  or  restaurant,  in  the 
whichj  although  the  food  may  be  of  the  worst 


DINNER  los 

quality,  and  the  cookery  of  the  greasiest,  the 
charges  are  certain  to  be  on  the  millionaire  scale. 
For  bad  dinners,  like  bad  lodgings,  are  invariably 
the  dearest. 

At  the  Mess-Table 

of  the  British  officer  there  is  not  much  riot  or 
extravagance  nov^adays,  and  the  food  is  but  in- 
differently well  cooked  ;  though  there  was  a 
time  when  the  youngest  cornet  would  turn  up 
his  nose  at  anything  commoner  than  a  "special 
cuvee  "  of  champagne,  and  would  unite  with  his 
fellows  in  the  "bear -fight"  which  invariably 
concluded  a  "guest  night,"  and  during  which 
the  messman,  or  one  of  his  myrmidons,  was 
occasionally  placed  atop  of  the  ante-room  fire. 
And  there  was  one  messman  who  even  preferred 
that  mode  of  treatment  to  being  lectured  by  his 
colonel.  Said  officer  was  starchy,  punctilious, 
and  long-winded,  and  upon  one  occasion,  when 
the  chaplain  to  the  garrison  was  his  guest  at 
dinner,  addressed  the  terrified  servant  somewhat 
after  this  wise  : 

"Mr.  Messman — I  have  this  evening  bidden 
to  our  feast  this  eminent  divine,  who  prayeth 
daily  that  we  may  receive  the  fruits  of  the  earth 
in  due  season  ;  to  which  I,  an  humble  layman, 
am  in  the  habit  of  responding  :  'We  beseech  thee 
to  hear  us,  good  Lord.'  Mr.  Messman,  don't 
let  me  see  those  d~ d  figs  on  the  table  again." 

At  a  military  guest-night  in  India,  a  turkey 
and  a  "  Europe  "  ham  are — or  were — de  rigueur 
at  table  j  and  on  the  whole  the  warrior  fares 
well,  if  the  khansamah  do  not  attempt  luxuries. 


io6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

His  chicken  cutlets  are  not  despicable,  and  we 
can  even  forgive  the  repetition  of  the  vilolif^  but 
his  bifisteakishtoo  (stevi^ed  steak)  is  usually  too 
highly-spiced  for  the  European  palate.  Later  in 
the  evening,  however,  he  will  come  out  strong 
with  duvlebone^  and  grilled  sardines  in  curlpapers. 
The  presence  of  the  bagpipes,  in  the  mess-room 
of  a  Highland  regiment,  when  men  have  well 
drunk,  is  cruelly  unkind — to  the  Saxon  guest  at 
all  events.  The  bagpipe  is  doubtless  a  melodious 
instrument  (to  trained  ears),  but  its  melodies  are 
apt  to  "hum  i'  th'  head  o'er  muckle  ye  ken," 
after  a  course  of  haggis  washed  down  with 
sparkHng  wines  and  old  port. 

"Tell    me   what    a   man   eats,"   said    Brillat 
Savarin,  "  and  Til  tell  you  what  he  is." 


Peter  the  Great 

did  not  like  the  presence  of  "listening  lacqueys" 
in  the  dining-room.  Peter's  favourite  dinner  was, 
like  himself,  peculiar :  "  A  soup,  with  four  cabbages 
in  it ;  gruel ;  pig,  with  sour  cream  for  sauce ;  cold 
roast  meat  with  pickled  cucumbers  or  salad  ; 
lemons  and  lamprey,  salt  meat,  ham,  and  Limburg 
cheese." 

"Lemons  and  lamprey"  must  have  had  a 
roughish  seat,  atop  of  pig  and  sour  cream.  I 
once  tasted  lampreys — only  once.  It  was  in 
Worcestershire,  and  said  lampreys  were  stewed 
(I  fancy)  in  burgundy,  and  served  in  a  small 
tureen — en  casserole^  our  lively  neighbours  would 
have  called  the  production,  which  was  grateful, 
but  much  embarrassed  with  richness. 


fioHberg,  Bowen  d;  Co. 


DINNER  107 

Napoleon  the  Great^ 

whose  tastes  were  simple,  is  said  to  have  preferred 
a  broiled  breast  of  mutton  to  any  other  dinner- 
dish.  Napoleon  III.,  however,  encouraged  ex- 
travagance of  living ;  and  Zola  tells  us  in  Le 
Debacle  that  the  unfortunate  emperor,  ill  as  he 
was,  used  to  sit  down  to  so  many  courses  of  rich 
foods  every  night  until  "the  downfall"  arrived 
at  Sedan,  and  that  a  train  of  cooks  and  scullions 
with  (literally)  a  ^^ batterie^'^  de  cuisiney  was 
attached  to  his  staff. 

Her  Majesty 
Queen  Victoria's  dinner-table  is  invariably  graced 
with  a  cold  sirloin  of  beef,  amongst  other  joints  ; 
and  the  same  simple  fare  has  satisfied  the  aspira- 
tions and  gratified  the  palate  of  full  many  a 
celebrity.     The  great 

Duke  of  Wellington 
was    partial    to   a   well-made    Irish    stew;    and 
nothing  delighted  Charles  Dickens  more  than  a 
slice  out  of  the  breast  of  a  hot  roast-goose. 

A  word  about  the  mushroom.  Although  said 
to  be  of  enormous  value  in  sauces  and  ragouts,  I 
shall  always  maintain  that  the  mushroom  is  best 
when  eaten  all  by  his  quaint  self.  His  flavour  is 
so  dehcate  that  'tis  pitiful  to  mix  him  with  fish, 
flesh,  or  fowl — more  especially  the  first- named. 
I  have  seen  mushrooms  and  bacon  cooked 
together,  and  I  have  seen  beaf- steak  (cut  into 
small  pieces)  and  bacon  cooked  together, 
and  it  was  with  some  difliculty  that  my  Irish 
host  got  me  but  of  the  kitchen.  If  ever  I  am 
I 


io8  CAKES  AND  ALE 

hanged,  it  will  be  for  killing  a  cook.  Above 
all  never  eat  mushrooms  which  you  have  not 
seen  in  their  uncooked  state.  The  mushroom, 
like  the  truffle,  loses  more  flavour  the  longer  he 
is  kept ;  and  to  "  postpone  "  either  is  fatal. 

"  The  plainer  the  meal  the  longer  the  life." 
Thus  an  eminent  physician — already  mentioned 
in  these  pages.  "We  begin  with  soup,  and 
perhaps  a  glass  of  cold  punch,  to  be  followed  by 
a  piece  of  turbot,  or  a  slice  of  salmon  with 
lobster  sauce  ;  and  while  the  venison  or  South- 
down is  getting  ready,  we  toy  with  a  piece  of 
sweetbread,  and  mellow  it  with  a  bumper  of 
Madeira.  No  sooner  is  the  mutton  or  venison 
disposed  of,  with  its  never- failing  accompani- 
ments of  jelly  and  vegetables,  than  we  set  the 
whole  of  it  in  a  ferment  with  champagne,  and 
drown  it  with  hock  and  sauterne.  These  are 
quickly  followed  by  the  wing  and  breast  of  a 
partridge,  or  a  bit  of  pheasant  or  wild  duck  ;  and 
when  the  stomach  is  all  on  fire  with  excitement, 
we  cool  it  for  an  instant  with  a  piece  of  iced 
pudding,  and  then  immediately  lash  it  into  a  fury 
with  undiluted  alcohol  in  the  form  of  cognac 
or  a  strong  liqueur ;  after  which  there  comes 
a  spoonful  or  so  of  jelly  as  an  emollient,  a  morsel 
of  ripe  Stilton  as  a  digestant,  a  piquant  salad  to 
whet  the  appetite  for  wine,  and  a  glass  of  old  port 
to  persuade  the  stomach,  if  it  can,  into  quietness. 
All  these  are  more  leisurely  succeeded  by  dessert, 
with  its  baked  meats,  its  fruits,  and  its  strong 
drinks,  to  be  afterwards  muddled  with  coffee, 
and  complicated  into  a  rare  mixture  with  tea, 
floating  with  the  richest  creaiii/' 


DINNER  109 

Hoity,  toity  !  And  not  a  word  about  a  French 
pldt^  or  even  a  curry,  either  !  But  we  must 
remember  that  this  diatribe  comes  from  a  gentle- 
man who  has  laid  down  the  theory  that  cold 
water  is  not  only  the  cheapest  of  beverages,  but 
the  best.  Exception,  too,  may  be  taken  to  the 
statement  that  a  "  piquant  salad "  whets  the 
appetite  for  wine.  I  had  always  imagined  that  a 
salad — and,  indeed,  anything  with  vinegar  in  its 
composition — rather  spoilt  the  human  palate  for 
wine  than  otherwise.  And  what  sort  of  "  baked 
meats  "  are  usually  served  with  desert  ? 

How  the  Poor  Live. 

An  esteemed  friend  who  has  seen  better  days, 
sends  word  how  to  dine  a  man,  his  wife,  and 
three  children  for  y^d.     He  heads  his  letter 

The  Kent  Road  Cookery, 

A  stew  is  prepared  with  the  following  ingredi- 
ents :  lib.  bullock's  cheek  (3id.),  i  pint  white 
beans  (id.),  i  pint  lentils  (id.),  pot-herbs  (id.), 
2  lb.  potatoes  (id.) — Total  7^d. 

When  he  has  friends,  the  banquet  is  more 
expensive  :  i  lb.  bullock's  cheek  (3^d.),  i  lb. 
cow-heel  (2^d.),  \  lb.  leg  of  beef  (3d.),  i  pint 
white  beans  (2d.),  i  pint  lentils  (id.),  pot-herbs 
(id.),  5  lb.  potatoes  (2d.) — total  is.  3d. 

As  we  never  know  what  may  happen,  the 
above  menus  may  come  in  useful. 

Doctor  Hansen's  Banquet 
on  the  ice-flo^',  to  celebrate  his  failure  to  discover 
the  Pole,  was  simple  enough,  at  all  events.     But 


no  CAKES  AND  ALE 

it  would  hardly  commend  itself  to  the  fin  de 
sieclr  "Johnny.'  There  was  raw  gull  in  it,  by 
way  of  a  full-flavoured  combination  ot  poisson 
and  entree ;  there  was  meat  chocolate  in  it,  and 
peli  —  I  should  say,  pemmican.  There  were 
pancakes,  made  of  oatmeal  and  dog's  blood, 
fried  in  seal's  blubber.  And  I  rather  fancy  the 
releve  was  Chien  au  nature.  For  in  his  most 
interesting  work.  Across  Greenland^  Doctor 
Nansen  has  inserted  the  statement  that  the 
man  who  turns  his  nose  up  at  raw  dog  for 
dinner  is  unfit  for  an  Arctic  expedition.  For 
my  own  poor  part,  I  would  take  my  chance 
with  a  Porterhouse  steak,  cut  from  a  Polar  bear. 

Prison  Fare. 

Another  simple  meal.  Any  visitor  to  one 
of  H.M.  penitentiaries  may  have  noticed  in 
the  cells  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  "  beans 
and  bacon"  may  be  substituted  for  meat,  for 
the  convicts'  dinners,  on  certain  days.  "Beans 
and  bacon"  sounds  rural,  if  not  absolutely  bucolic. 
"  Fancy  giving  such  good  food  to  the  wretches ! " 
once  exclaimed  a  lady  visitor.  But  those  who 
have  sampled  the  said  "  beans  and  bacon "  say 
that  it  is  hardly  to  be  preferred  to  the  six  ounces 
of  Australian  dingo  or  the  coarse  suet -duff 
(plumless)  which  furnish  the  ordinary  prison 
dinner.  For  the  table-spoonful  of  pappy  beans 
with  which  the  captive  staves  off  starvation  are 
of  the  genus  "  haricot "  ;  and  the  parallelogram 
of  salted  hog's-flesh  which  accompanies  the  beans 
does  not  exceed,  in  size,  the  ordinary  railway 
ticket. 


CHAPTER   X 


VEGETABLES 

"  Herbs  and  other  country  messes, 
Which  the  neat-handed  Phyllis  dresses." 

U«e  and  abuse  of  the  potato — Its  eccentricities — Its  origin — 
Hawkins,  not  Raleigh,  introduced  it  into  England — With  or 
without  the  "jacket"? — Don't  let  it  be  a-Ia-ed — Benevol- 
ence and  large-heartedness  of  the  cabbage  family — Peas  on 
earth  —  Pythagoras  on  the  bean — "Giving  him  beans" — 
"  Haricot  "  a  misnomer — "  Borston  "  beans — Frijoles — The 
carrot — Crecy  soup — The  Prince  of  Wales — The  Black 
Prince  and  the  King  of  Bohemia. 

Item,  the  Potato,  earth-apple,  murphy,  or  spud  ; 
the  most  useful,  as  well  as  the  most  exasperating 
gift  of  a  bountiful  Providence.  Those  inclined  to 
obesity  may  skip  the  greater  part  of  this  chapter. 
You  can  employ  a  potato  for  almost  anything. 
It  comes  in  very  handy  for  the  manufacture  of 
starch,  .sugar,  Irish  stew,  Scotcb  whisky,  and 
Colorado  beetles.  Cut  it  in  half,  and  with  one 
half  you  restore  an  old  master,  and  with  the  other 
drive  the  cat  from  the  back  garden.  More  deadly 
battles  have  been  waged  over  the  proper  way  to 
cook  a  potato,  than  over  a  parish  boundary,  or 
an  Irish  eviction.     Strong-headed  men  hurl  the 


112  CAKES  AND  ALE 

spud  high  in  air,  and  receive  and  fracture  it  on 
their  frontal  bones  ;  whilst  a  juggler  like  Paul 
CinquevalH  can  do  what  he  likes  with  it.  Worn 
inside  the  pocket,  it  is  an  infallible  cure  for 
chronic  rheumatism,  fits,  and  tubercular  menin- 
gitis. Worn  inside  the  body  it  will  convert  a 
living  skeleton  into  a  Daniel  Lambert.  Plant 
potatoes  in  a  game  district,  and  if  they  come  up 
you  will  find  that  after  the  haulms  have  withered 
you  can  capture  all  your  rich  neighbour's  pheas- 
ants, and  half  the  partridges  in  the  country.  A 
nicely-baked  potato,  deftly  placed  beneath  the 
root  of  his  tail,  will  make  the  worst  "jibber"  in 
the  world  travel ;  whilst,  when  combined  with 
buttermilk,  and  a  modicum  of  meal,  the  earth- 
apple  has  been  known  to  nourish  millions  of  the 
rising  generation,  and  to  give  them  sufficient 
strength  and  courage  to  owe  their  back  rents, 
and  accuracy  of  aim  for  exterminating  the  brutal 
owner  of  the  soil. 

The  waiter,  bless  ye  !  the  harmless,  flat-footed 
waiter,  doesn't  know  all  this.  Potatoes  to  him  are 
simply  2d.  or  3d.  in  the  little  account,  according 
to  whether  they  be  "  biled,  mash,  or  soty  "  ;  and 
if  questioned  as  to  the  natural  history  of  the 
floury  tuber,  he  would  probably  assume  an  air  of 
injured  innocence,  and  assure  you  that  during  his 
reign  of  "thirty-five  year,  man  and  boy,"  that 
establishment  had  "never  'ad  no  complaints." 

The  potato  is  most  eccentric  in  disposition, 
and  its  cultivator  should  know  by  heart  the 
beautiful  ode  of  Horace  which  commences 

Aequam  memento  rebus  in  arduis  .  .  . 


VEGETABLES  113 

The  experiences  of  the  writer  as  a  potato 
grower  have  been  somewhat  mixed,  and  oc- 
casionally like  the  following  : — Set  your  snow- 
flakes  in  deeply  -  trenched,  heavily  -  manured 
ground,  a  foot  apart.  In  due  time  you  will  get 
a  really  fine  crop  of  groundsel,  charlock,  and 
slugs,  with  enough  bind-weed  to  strangle  the  sea- 
serpent.  Clear  all  this  rubbish  off,  and  after  a 
week  or  two  the  eye  will  be  gladdened  with  the 
sight  of  the  delicate  green  leaf  of  the  tuber  peep- 
ing through  the  soil.  Slow  music.  Enter  the 
Earl  of  Frost.  No  ;  they  will  not  all  be  cut  ofF. 
You  will  get  one  tciber.  Peel  it  carefully,  and 
place  it  in  the  pig-stye — the  peeling  spoils  the 
quality  of  the  pork.  Throw  the  peeling  away — 
on  the  bed  in  which  you  have  sown  annuals  for 
choice — and  in  the  late  Spring  you  will  have  a 
row  of  potatoes  which  will  do  you  credit. 

But  this  is  frivolous.  The  origin  of  the 
potato  is  doubtful ;  but  that  it  was  used  by  the 
ancients,  in  warfare,  is  tolerably  certain.  Long 
before  the  Spaniards  reached  the  New  World  it 
was  cultivated  largely  by  the  Incas  ;  and  it  was 
the  Spaniards  who  brought  the  tuber  to  Europe,  in 
the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  century.  It  was 
brought  to  England  from  Virginia  by  Sir  John 
Hawkins  in  1563  j  and  again  in  1586  by  Sir 
Francis  Drake,  to  whom,  as  the  introducer  of 
the  potato,  a  statue  was  erected  at  OfFenburg,  in 
Baden,  in  1853.  In  schools  and  other  haunts  of 
ignorance,  the  credit  for  the  introduction  of  the 
tuber  used  to  be  and  is  (I  believe)  still  given  to 
Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  who  has  been  wrongly 
accredited  with  as  many  "good  things"  as  have 


114  CAKES  AND  ALE 

been  Theodore  Hook  or  Sidney  Smith.  And  I 
may  mention  en  parenthese,  that  I  don't  entirely 
believe  that  cloak  story.  For  many  years  the 
tuber  was  known  in  England  as  the  "Batata" — 
overhaul  your  Lorna  Doone-^znA  in  France,  until 
the  close  cf  the  eighteenth  century,  the  earth  apple 
was  looked  upon  with  suspicion,  as  the  cause  of 
leprosy  and  assorted  fevers  j  just  as  the  tomato, 
at  the  close  of  the  more  civilised  nineteenth 
century,  is  said  by  the  vulgar  and  swine-headed 
to  breed  cancer. 

Now  then,  With  or  without  the  jacket  ?  And 
the  reader  who  imagines  that  I  am  going  to 
answer  the  question  has  too  much  imagination. 
As  the  old  butler  in  Wilkie  Collins's  The  Moonstone 
observes,  there  is  much  to  be  said  on  both  sides. 
Personally  I  lean  to  the  "  no-jacket "  side,  unless 
the  tuber  be  baked  ;  and  I  would  make  it  penal 
to  serve  a  potato  in  any  other  way  than  boiled, 
steamed,  or  baked.^  The  bad  fairy  Ala  should 
have  no  hand  in  its  manipulation  ;  and  there  be 
few  aesthetic  eaters  who  would  not  prefer  the  old- 
fashioned  "  ball  of  flour  "  to  slices  of  the  sodden 
article  swimming  in  a  bath  of  grease  and  parsley, 
and  called  a  Saute,  The  horrible  concoction 
yclept  "preserved  potatoes,"  which  used  to  be 
served  out  aboard  sailing  vessels,  after  the  passen- 
gers had  eaten  all  the  real  articles,  and  which 
tasted  like  bad  pease-pudding  dressed  with  furni- 
ture polish,  is,  happily,  deceased.  And  the  best 
potatoes,  the  same  breed  which  our  fathers  and 
our  forefathers  munched  in  the  Covent  Garden 

*  Kidney  potatoes  should  always  be  boiled,  as  steaming  makes 
them  more  "  waxy." 


VEGETABLES  115 

"Cave  of  Harmony," grow, I  am  credibly  informed, 
in  Jermyn  Street.  Moreover  if  you  wish  to  spoil 
a  dish  of  good  spuds,  there  is  no  surer  way  than 
by  leaving  on  the  dish -cover.  So  much  for 
boihng  'em — or  steaming  'em. 

The  Cabbage  is  a  fine,  friendly  fellow,  who 
make?  himself  at  home,  and  generally  useful,  in 
the  garden  ;  whilst  his  great  heart  swells,  and 
swells,  in  the  full  knowledge  that  he  is  doing  his 
level  best  to  please  all.  Though  cut  down  in 
the  springtime  of  his  youth,  his  benevolence  is  so 
great  that  he  will  sprout  again  from  his  headless 
trunk,  if  required,  and  given  time  for  reflection. 
The  Romans  introduced  him  into  Great  Britain, 
but  there  was  a  sort  of  cow-cabbage  in  the  island 
before  that  time  which  our  blue  forefathers  used 
to  devour  with  their  bacon,  and  steaks,  in  a  raw 
state. 

"The  most  evolved  and  final  variety  of  the 
cabbage,"  writes  a  savant^  "  is  the  Cauliflower, 
in  which  the  vegetative  surplus  becomes  poured 
into  the  flowering  head,  of  which  the  flowering  is 
more  or  less  checked  ;  the  inflorescence  becoming 
a  dense  corymb  instead  of  an  open  panicle,  and 
the  majority  of  the  flowers  aborting  " — the  head 
gardener  usually  tells  you  all  this  in  the  Scottish 
language — "so  as  to  become  incapable  of  pro- 
ducing seed.  Let  a  specially  vegetative  cabbage 
repeat  the  excessive  development  of  its  leaf  paren- 
chyma, and  v/e  have  the  wrinkled  and  .glistered 
Savoy,  of  which  the  hardy  constitution,  but  com- 
parative coarseness,  become  also  more  intelligible  ; 
again  a  specially  vegetative  cauliflower  gives  us 
an    easily    grown    and    hardy    winter    variety. 


ii6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Broccoli" — Broccilo  in  Costerese — "from  which, 
and  not  from  the  ordinary  cauliflower,  a  sprouting 
variety  arises  in  turn." 

In  Jersey  the  cabbage -stalks  are  dried,  var- 
nished, and  used  as  spars  for  thatched  roofs,  as 
also  for  the  correction  of  the  youthful  population. 
Cook  all  varieties  of  the  cabbage  in  water  already 
at  the  boil,  with  a  little  salt  and  soda  in  it.  The 
French  sprinkle  cheese  on  a  cauliflower,  to  make 
it  more  tasty,  and  it  then  becomes 

Choufleur  au  Grat'in, 

Remove  the  green  leaves,  and  underboil  your 
cauliflower.  Pour  over  it  some  butter  sauce  in 
which  have  been  mixed  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese 
— half  Gruyere  and  half  Parmesan.  Powder  with 
bread  crumbs,  or  raspings,  and  with  more  grated 
cheese.  Lastly,  pour  over  it  a  teaspoonful  of  oiled 
butter.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  till  the 
surface  is  a  golden  brown,  which  should  be  in  from 
ten  to  fifteen  mmutes.     Serve  in  same  dish. 

Vegetarians  should  be  particularly  careful  to 
soak  every  description  of  cabbage  in  salt  and 
water  before  cooking.  Otherwise  the  vegetarians 
will  probably  eat  a  considerable  portion  of  animal 
food. 

Here  occurs  an  opportunity  for  the  recipe  for 
an  elegant  dish,  which  the  French  call  Perdrix 
aux  Choux^  which  is  simply 

Partridge  Stewed  with  Cabbage^  etc, 

A  brace  of  birds  browned  in  the  stewpan  with 
butter  or  good  dripping,  and  a  portion  of  a  hand  of 
pickled  pork  in  small  pieces,  some  chopped  onion 


VEGETABLES  117 

and  a  clove  or  two.  Add  some  broth,  two  carrots 
(chopped),  a  bay-leaf,  and  a  chopped  sausage  or  two. 
Then  add  a  Savoy  cabbage,  cut  into  quarters,  and 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Let  all  simmer 
together  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  drain  the 
cabbage,  and  place  it,  squashed  down,  on  a  dish. 
Arrange  the  birds  in  the  middle,  surround  them 
with  the  pieces  of  pork  and  sausage,  and  pour  over 
all  the  liquor  from  the  stew. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish,  and  savours  more  of 
Teutonic  than  of  French  cooking.  But  you 
mustn't  tell  a  Frenchman  this,  if  he  be  bigger 
than  yourself. 

The  toothsome  Pea  has  been  cultivated  in 
the  East  from  time  immemorial,  though  the 
ancient  Greeks  and  Romans  do  not  appear  to 
have  had  knowledge  of  such  a  dainty.  Had 
Vitellius  known  the  virtues  of  duck  and  green 
peas  he  would  probably  have  not  been  so  wrapt  up 
in  his  favourite  dormice,  stuffed  with  poppy-seed 
and  stewed  in  honey.  The  ancient  Egyptians 
knew  all  about  the  little  pulse,  and  not  one  of 
the  leaders  of  society  was  mummified  without  a 
pod  or  two  being  placed  amongst  his  wrappings. 
And  after  thousand  of  years  said  peas,  when 
sown,  have  been  known  to  germinate.  The 
mummy  pea-plant,  however,  but  seldom  bears 
fruit.  Our  idiotic  ancestors,  the  ancient  Britons, 
knew  nothing  about  peas,  nor  do  any  of  their 
descendants  appear  to  have  troubled  about  the 
vegetable  before  the  reign  of  the  Virgin  Queen. 
Then  they  were  imported  from  Holland,  together 
with  schnapps,  cura^oa,  and  other  things,  and 
no  "swagger"  banquet  was  held  without  a  dish 


If 8  CAKES  AND  ALE 

of  "fresh -shelled  'uns,"  which  were  accounted 
"  fit  dainties  for  ladies,  they  came  so  far  and  cost 
so  dear."  In  England  up-to-date  peas  are 
frequently  accompanied  by  pigeon  pie  at  table  ; 
the  dove  family  being  especially  partial  co  the 
little  pulse,  either  when  attached  to  the  haulm, 
in  the  garden,  or  in  a  dried  state.  So  that  the 
crafty  husbandman,  who  possesses  a  shot  gun, 
frequently  gathereth  both  pea  and  pigeon.  A 
chalky  soil  is  especially  favourable  to  pea  cultiva- 
tion J  and  deal  sawdust  sprinkled  well  over  the 
rows  immediately  after  the  setting  of  the  seed 
will  frustrate  the  knavish  tricks  of  the  field 
mouse,  who  also  likes  peas.  The  man  who 
discovered  the  affinity  between  mint  and  this 
vegetable  ought  to  have  received  a  gold  medal, 
and  I  would  gladly  attend  the  execution  of  the 
caitifF  who  invented  the  tinned  peas  which  we 
get  at  the  foreign  restaurants,  at  three  times  the 
price  of  the  Engfish  article. 

Here  is  a  good  simple  recipe  for  Pea  Soup, 
made  from  the  dried  article  : 

Soak  a  quart  of  split  peas  in  rain-water  tor  twelve 
hours.  Put  them  in  the  pot  with  one  carrot,  one 
onion,  one  leek,  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley  (all  chopped), 
one  pound  of  streaky  bacon,  and  three  quarts  of  the 
liquor  in  which  either  beef,  mutton,  pork,  or  poultry- 
may  have  been  boiled.  Boil  for  nearly  three  hours, 
remove  the  bacon,  and  strain  the  soup  through  a 
tammy.  Heat  up,  and  serve  with  dried  mint,  and 
small  cubes  of  fat  bacon  fried  crisp. 

Green-Pea  Soup  is  made  in  precisely  the 
same  way ;  but  the  peas  will  not  need  soaking 


VEGETABLES  119 

beforehand,  and   thrifty  housewives   put   in  the 
shells  as  well. 

Harmless  and  nutritious  a  vegetable  as  the 
Bean  would  appear  to  be,  it  did  not  altogether 
find  favour  with  the  ancients.  Pythagoras,  who 
had  quaint  ideas  on  the  subject  of  the  human 
soul,  forbade  his  disciples  to  eat  beans,  because 
they  were  generated  in  the  foul  ooze  out  of 
which  man  was  created.  Lucian,  who  had  a 
vivid  imagination,  describes  a  philosopher  in 
Hades  who  was  particularly  hard  on  the  bean, 
to  eat  which  he  declared  was  as  great  a  crime 
as  to  eat  one's  father's  head.  And  yet  Lucian 
was  accounted  a  man  of  common  sense  in  his 
time.  The  Romans  only  ate  beans  at  funerals, 
being  under  the  idea  that  the  souls  of  the  dead 
abode  in  the  vegetable.  According  to  tradition, 
the  "  caller  herrin' "  hawked  in  the  streets  of 
Edinburgh  were  once  known  as  "  lives  o'  men," 
from  the  risks  run  by  the  fishermen.  And  the 
Romans  introduced  the  bean  into  England  by  way 
of  cheering  up  our  blue  forefathers.  In  the  Roman 
festival  of  Lemuralia,  the  father  of  the  family  was 
accustomed  to  throw  black  beans  over  his  head, 
whilst  repeating  an  incantation.  This  ceremony 
probably  inspired  Lucian's  philosopher  —  for 
whom,  however,  every  allowance  should  be  made, 
when  we  come  to  consider  his  place  of  ':esidence 
— with  his  jaundiced  views  of  the  Faba  vulgaris. 
Curiously  enough,  amongst  the  vulgar  folk,  at  the 
present  day,  there  would  seem  to  be  some  sort  of 
prejudice  against  the  vegetable  ;  or  why  should 
"  I'll  give  him  beans "  be  a  synonymous  threat 
with  "  I'll  do  him  all  the  mischief  I  can  ?  " 


I20  CAKES  AND  ALE 

There  is  plenty  of  nourishment  in  a  bean  ; 
that  is  the  opinion  of  the  entire  medical  faculty. 
And  whilst  beans  and  bacon  make  a  favourite 
summer  repast  for  the  farm  -  labourer  and  his 
family,  the  dish  is  also  (at  the  commencement 
of  the  bean  season)  to  be  met  with  at  the  tables 
of  the  wealthy.  The  aroma  of  the  flower  of  the 
broad  bean  was  once  compared,  in  one  of  John 
Leech's  studies  in  Punchy  to  "  the  most  delicious 
'air  oil,"  but,  apart  from  this  fragrance,  there  is  but 
little  sentiment  about  the  Faba  vulgaris.  A  much 
more  graceful  vegetable  is  the  Phaseolus  vulgaris^ 
the  kidney,  or,  as  the  idiotic  French  call  it,  the 
haricot  bean.  It  is  just  as  sensible  to  call  a  leg 
of  Welsh  mutton  a  pre  sale^  or  salt  meadow. 
No  well-behaved  hashed  venison  introduces 
himself  to  our  notice  unless  accompanied  by  a 
dish  of  kidney  beans.  And  few  people  in  Europe 
besides  Frenchmen  and  convicts  eat  the  dried 
seeds  of  this  form  of  bean,  which  is  frequently 
sown  in  suburban  gardens  to  form  a  fence  to 
keep  out  cats.  But  the  suburban  cat  knows  a 
trick  worth  a  dozen  of  that  one  ;  and  no  bean 
that  was  ever  born  will  arrest  his  progress,  or 
turn  him  from  his  evil  ways.  It  is  criminal  to 
smother  the  kidney  bean  with  melted  butter  at 
table.  A  little  oil,  vinegar,  and  pepper  agree 
with  him  much  better. 

In  the  great  continent  of  America,  the  kidney- 
bean  seed,  dried,  is  freely  partaken  of.  Pork  and 
"  Borston  "  beans,  in  fact,  form  the  national  dish, 
and  right  good  it  is.  But  do  not  attempt  any 
violent  exercise  after  eating  the  same.  The 
Mexicans   are   the   largest   bean -eaters   in    the 


VEGETABLES  lai 

world.  They  fry  the  vegetables  in  oil  or  stew 
them  with  peppers  and  onions,  and  these  frijoles 
form  the  principal  sustenance  of  the  lower  orders. 
An  English  "  bean  feast "  (Vulg.  beano)  is  a  feast 
at  which  no  beans,  and  not  many  other  things,  are 
eaten.  The  intelligent  foreigner  may  take  it  that 
beano  simply  means  the  worship  of  Bacchus. 

With  the  exception  of  the  onion  there  is  no 
more  useful  aid  to  cookery  of  all  sorts  than  the 
lowly  carrot,  which  was  introduced  into  England 
— no,  not  by  the  Romans — from  Holland,  in  the 
sixteenth  century.  And  the  ladies  who  attended 
the  court  of  Charles  I.  were  in  the  habit  of  wear- 
ing carrot  leaves  in  the  hair,  and  on  their  court 
robes,  instead  of  feathers.  A  similar  fashion 
might  be  revived  at  the  present  epoch,  with 
advantage  to  the  banking  account  of  vile  man. 

As  the  Flemish  gardeners  brought  over  the 
roots,  we  should  not  despise  carrots  cooked  in  the 
Flemish  way.  Simmer  some  young  carrots  in 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  cream  (or 
milk  and  yolk  of  eggs),  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a 
little  chopped  parsley. 

H.R.H.  the  Prince  of  Wales,  according  to 
report,  invariably  eats  carrot  soup  on  the  26th  of 
August.  The  French  call  it  "  Cr^cy  "  soup, 
because  their  best  carrots  grow  there  ;  and  Crecy 
it  may  be  remembered  was  also  the  scene  of  a 
great  battle,  when  one  Englishman  proved  better 
than  five  Frenchmen.  In  this  battle  the  Black 
Prince  performed  prodigies  of  valour,  afterwards 
assuming  the  crest  of  the  late  Bohemian  King — 
three  ostrich  feathers  (surely  these  should  be 
parrot  tops  ?)  with  the  motto  "  Jch  Dien^'' 


iM  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Crecy  Soup, 

Place  a  mirepoix  of  white  wine  in  the  pot,  and 
put  a  quantity  of  sliced  carrots  atop.  -  Moisten  with 
broth,  and  keep  simmering  till  the  carrots  are  done. 
Then  pour  into  a  mortar,  pound,  and  pass  through 
a  tammy.  Thin  it  with  more  broth,  sweeten  in 
the  proportion  of  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar  to  two 
gallons  of  soup  ;  heat  up,  pop  a  little  butter  in  at  the 
finish,  and  in  serving  it  add  either  small  cubes  of  fried 
bread,  or  rice  boiled  as  for  curry  (see  page  145). 


CHAPTER   XI 

VEGETABLES — [continued) 

"Earth's  simple  fruits  ;  we  all  enjoy  them. 
Then  why  with  sauces  rich  alloy  them  ?  " 

The  brief  lives  of  the  best — A  vegetable  with  a  pedigree — 
Argenteuil— The  Elysian  Fields — The  tomato  the  emblem  of 
love — "  Neeps  " — Spinach — "  Stomach- brush" — The  savoury 
tear-provoker — Invaluable  for  wasp-stings — Celery  merely 
cultivated  "  smallage  " — The  "  Apium  " — The  parsnip — O 
Jerusalem  ! — The  golden  sunflower — How  to  get  pheasants — 
A  vegetarian  banquet — "  Swelling  wisibly." 

It  is  one  of  the  most  exasperating  laws  and 
ordinations  of  Nature  that  the  nicest  things  shall 
last  the  shortest  time.  "Whom  the  gods  love 
die  young,"  is  an  ancient  proverb  ;  and  the  pro- 
duce of  the  garden  which  is  most  agreeable  to 
man  invariably  gives  out  too  soon.  Look  at  peas. 
Every  gardener  of  worth  puts  in  the  seed  so  that 
you  may  get  the  different  rows  of  marrow-fats  and 
telephones  and  ne  plus  ultras  in  "  succession  "  ; 
and  up  they  all  come,  at  one  and  the  same  time, 
whilst,  if  you  fail  to  pick  them  all  at  once,  the 
combined  efforts  of  mildew  and  the  sun  will  soon 

K 


124  CAKES  AND  ALE 

save  you  the  labour  of  picking  them  at  all.  Look 
at  strawberries  ;  and  why  can't  they  stay  in  our 
midst  all  the  year  round,  like  the  various  members 
of  the  cabbage  family  ? 

Then  look  at  Asparagus.  The  gardener 
who  could  persuade  the  heads  of  this  department 
to  pop  up  in  succession,  from  January  to 
December  would  earn  more  money  than  the 
Prime  Minister.  The  favourite  vegetable  of  the 
ancient  Romans  was  introduced  by  them,  with 
their  accustomed  unselfishness,  into  Britain,  where 
it  has  since  flourished — more  particularly  in  the 
alluvial  soil  of  the  Thames  valley  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Mortlake  and  Richmond,  ground  which 
is  also  especially  favourable  to  the  growth  of 
celery.  In  an  ancient  work  called  De  Re  Rustica^ 
Cato  the  Elder,  who  was  born  234  B.C.,  has  much 
to  say — far  more,  indeed,  than  I  can  translate 
without  the  aid  of  a  dictionary  or  "  crib  " — about 
the  virtues  and  proper  cultivation  of  asparagus  ; 
and  Pliny,  another  noble  Roman,  devotes  several 
chapters  of  his  Natural  History  (published  at  the 
commencement  of  the  Christian  era)  to  the  same 
subject.  "  Of  all  the  productions  of  your  garden  " 
says  this  Mr.  Pliny, "  your  chief  care  will  be  your 
asparagus."  And  the  cheerful  and  sanguine 
householder  of  to-day  who  sows  his  asparagus, 
and  expects  to  get  it  "  while  he  waits  "  has  ample 
consolation  for  disappointment  in  the  reflection 
that  his  labours  will  benefit  posterity,  if  not  the 
next  tenant. 

The  foreigners  can  beat  us  for  size,  in  the 
matter  of  asparagus  ;  but  ours  is  a  long  way  in 
front  for  flavour.      In   France  the  vegetable  is 


VEGETABLES  115 

very  largely  grown  at  Argenteuil  on  the  Seine,  a 
district  which  has  also  produced,  and  still  produces, 
a  wine  which  is  almost  as  dangerous  to  man 
as  hydrocyanic  acid,  and  which  was  invariably 
served  in  the  restaurants,  after  the  sitting  had  been 
a  lengthy  one,  no  matter  what  special  brand 
might  have  been  ordered.  English  hosts  play  the 
same  game  with  their  "  military "  ports  and 
inferior  sherries.  The  Argenteuil  asparagus  is 
now  grown  between  the  vines — at  least  1000 
acres  are  in  cultivation — whence  the  peculiar  flavour 
which,  however  grateful  it  may  be  to  Frenchmen, 
is  somewhat  sickly  and  not  to  be  compared  with 
that  of  the  "  little  gentleman  in  Green,"  nearly 
the  whole  of  whom  we  English  can  consume 
with  safety  to  digestion. 

According  to  Greek  mythology,  asparagus 
grew  in  the  Elysian  fields  ;  but  whether  the 
blessed  took  oil  and  vinegar  with  it,  or  the  "  bill- 
sticker's  paste,'*  so  favoured  in  middle -class 
kitchens  of  to-day,  there  is  no  record.  It  goes 
best,  however,  with  a  plain  salad  dressing — a 
"  spot  "  of  mustard  worked  into  a  table-spoonful 
of  oil,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar, 
with  pepper  and  salt  ad  lib. 

Asparagus  is  no  longer  known  in  the  British 
pharmacopoeia,  but  the  French  make  large  medi- 
cinal use  of  its  root,  which  is  supposed  to  still 
the  action  of  the  heart,  like  foxglove,  and  to  act 
as  a  preventive  of  calcuH.  In  cooking  the 
vegetable,  tie  in  small  bundles,  which  should  be 
stood  on  end  in  the  saucepan,  so  that  the  delicate 
heads  should  be  steamed^  and  not  touched  by  the 
boiling    water.     Many   cooks   will    contest    this 


126  CAKES  AND  ALE 

point  i  which,  however,  does  not  admit  of  argu- 
ment. 

There  was  once  a  discussion  in  a  well-known 
hostelry,  as  to  whether  the 

Tomato 

was  a  fruit  or  a  vegetable.  Eventually  the  head- 
waiter  was  invited  to  solve  the  great  question. 
He  did  so  on  the  spot. 

"  Tumarter,  sir  ?  Tumarter's  a  hextra." 
And  as  a  "hextra"  it  has  never  since  that 
period  ceased  to  be  regarded.  A  native  of  South 
America,  the  plant  was  introduced  into  Europe 
by  the  Spaniards,  late  in  the  sixteenth  century, 
and  the  English  got  it  in  1596.  Still  until  a 
quarter  of  a  century  ago  the  tomato  has  not  been 
largely  cultivated,  save  by  the  market  gardener  ; 
in  fact  in  private  gardens  it  was  conspicuous  by 
its  absence.  Those  who  eat  it  do  not  invariably 
succumb  to  cancer  ;  and  the  dyspeptic  should 
always  keep  it  on  the  premises.  As  the  tomato 
is  also  known  as  the  "  love-apple,"  a  great  point 
was  missed  by  our  old  friend  Sergeant  Buzfuz, 
in  the  celebrated  Bardell  v.  Pickwick  trial,  when 
referring  to  the  postscript,  "chops,  and  tomato 
sauce."     Possibly   Charles   Dickens  was  not  an 

authority  on  veget I  beg  pardon,  "  hextras." 

Here  is  a  French  recipe  for 

Tomate  au  Gratin  : 

Cut  open  the  tops  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Pass 
it  through  a  sieve,  to  clear  away  the  pips,  and  mix 
with  it  either  a  modicum  of  butter,  or  oil,  some 
chopped   shalot  and    garlic,   with    pepper   and   salt. 


VEGETABLES  127 

Simmer  the  mixture  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
stir  in  some  bread-crumbs,  previously  soaked  in  broth, 
and  some  yolks  of  egg.  When  cold,  fill  the  tomato 
skins  with  the  mixture,  shake  some  fine  bread  rasp- 
ings over  each,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  for  ten  or 
twelve  minutes. 

The 

Turnip 

is  not,  as  might  be  sometimes  imagined,  entirely 
composed  of  compressed  deal  splinters,  but  is  a 
vegetable  v^^hich  was  cultivated  in  India  long 
before  the  Britons  got  it.  The  Scotch  call 
turnips  "  neeps  "  ;  but  the  Scotch  w^ill  do  any- 
thing. Probably  no  member  of  the  vegetable 
family  is  so  great  a  favourite  w^ith  the  insect 
pests  sent  on  earth  by  an  all -wise  Providence 
to  prevent  mankind  having  too  much  to  eat. 
But  see  that  you  get  a  few  turnips  to  cook  when 
there  is  roast  duck  for  dinner. 

Spinach 

was  introduced  into  Spain  by  the  Arabs,  and  as 
neither  nation  possessed  at  that  time,  at  all 
events,  the  attribute  of  extra- cleanliness,  they 
must  have  eaten  a  great  deal  of  "  matter  in  the 
wrong  place,"  otherwise  known  as  dirt.  For  if 
ever  there  was  a  vegetable  the  preparation  of 
which  for  table  would  justify  any  cook  in  giving 
notice  to  leave,  it  is  spinach. 

The  Germans  have  nick-named  it  "stomach- 
brush,"  and  there  is  no  plant  growing  which 
conduces  more  to  the  health  of  man.  But  there 
has  been  more  trouble  over  the  proper  way  to 


i2«  CAKES  AND  ALE 

serve  it  at  table  than  over  Armenia.  The  French 
chop  up  their  epinards  and  mix  butter,  or  gravy, 
with  the  mess.  Many  English,  on  the  other 
hand,  prefer  the  leaves  cooked  whole.  It  is  all 
a  matter  of  taste. 

But  I  seem  to  scent  a  soft,  sweet  fragrance 
in  the  air,  a  homely  and  health -giving  reek, 
which  warns  me  that  I  have  too  long  neglected 
to  touch  upon  the  many  virtues  of  the 

Onion. 
Indigenous  to  India  in  the  form  of 

Garlic 

(or  gar-leek^  the  original  onion),  the  Egyptians 
got  hold  of  the  tear-provoker  and  cultivated  it 
2000  years  before  the  Christian  era.  So  that 
few  of  the  mortals  of  whom  we  have  ever  read 
can  have  been  ignorant  of  the  uses  of  the  onion, 
or  gar -leek.  But  knowledge  and  practice  have 
enabled  modern  gardeners  to  produce  larger  bulbs 
than  even  the  most  imaginative  of  the  ancients 
can  have  dreamt  of.  To  mention  all  the  uses 
to  which  the  onion  is  put  in  the  kitchen  would 
be  to  write  a  book  too  weighty  for  any  known 
motive  power  to  convey  to  the  British  Museum  ; 
but  it  may  be  briefly  observed  of  the  juice  of 
the  Cepa  that  it  is  invaluable  for  almost  any 
purpose,  from  flavouring  a  dish  fit  to  set  before 
a  king,  to  the  alleviation  of  the  inflammation 
caused  by  the  poison  -  bearing  needle  which  the 
restless  wasp  keeps  for  use  within  his,  or  her,  tail. 
In  fact,  the  inhabited  portion  of  the  globe  had 
better  be  without  noses  than  without  onions. 


VEGETABLES  129 

Like  the  tomato,  Celery  is  a  "  hextra  " — and 
a  very  important  one.  If  you  buy  the  heads  at 
half-a-crown  per  hundred  and  sell  them  at  three- 
pence a  portion,  it  will  not  exercise  your  calcu- 
lating powers  to  discover  the  profits  which  can 
be  made  out  of  this  simple  root.  Celery  is 
simply  cultivated  "  smallage  "  ;  a  weed  which 
has  existed  in  Britain  since  the  age  of  ice.  It 
was  the  Italians  who  made  the  discovery  that 
educated  smallage  would  become  celery  ;  and  it 
is  worthy  of  note  that  their  forefathers,  the 
conquerors  of  the  world,  with  the  Greeks,  seem 
to  have  known  "  no  touch  of  it " — as  a  relish,  at 
all  events  ;  though  some  writers  will  have  it  that 
the  "Apium,"  with  which  the  victors  at  the 
Isthmian  and  other  games  were  crowned  was 
not  parsley  but  the  leaf  of  the  celery  plant.  But 
what  does  it  matter  ?  Celery  is  invaluable  as  a 
flavourer,  and  when  properly  cultivated,  and  not 
stringy,  a  most  delightful  and  satisfactory  sub- 
stance to  bite.  In  fact  a  pretty  woman  never 
shows  to  more  advantage  than  when  nibbling  a 
crisp,  "  short "  head  of  celery  —  provided  she 
possess  pretty  teeth. 

With  boiled  turkey,  or  ditto  pheasant,  celery 
sauce  is  de  rigueur ;  and  it  should  be  flavoured 
slightly  with  sHces  of  onion,  an  ounce  of  butter 
being  allowed  to  every  head  of  celery.  The 
French  are  fond  of  it  stewed  ;  and  as  long  as  the 
flavour  of  the  gravy,  or  jus^  does  not  disguise  the 
flavour  of  the  celery,  it  is  excellent  when  thus 
treated.  Its  merits  in  a  salad  will  be  touched 
upon  in  another  chapter. 

The  Parsnip  is  a  native  of  England,  where 


130  CAKES  AND  ALE 

it  is  chiefly  used  to  make  an  inferior  kind  of 
spirit,  or  a  dreadful  brand  of  wine.  Otherwise 
few  people  would  trouble  to  cultivate  the  parsnip  ; 
for  we  can't  be  having  boiled  pork  or  salt 
fish  for  dinner  every  day.  The  Vegetable 
Marrow  is  a  member  of  the  pumpkin  family  and 
is  a  comparatively  tasteless  occupant  of  the 
garden,  its  appearance  in  which  heralds  the 
departure  of  summer.  In  the  suburbs,  if  you 
want  to  annoy  the  people  next  door,  you  cannot 
do  better  than  put  in  a  marrow  plant  or  two. 
If  they  come  to  anything,  and  get  plenty  of 
water,  they  will  crawl  all  over  your  neighbour's 
premises  ;  and  unless  he  is  fond  of  the  breed, 
and  cuts  and  cooks  them,  they  make  him  mad. 
The  frugal  housewife,  blessed  with  a  large 
family,  makes  jam  of  the  surplus  marrows  ;  but 
I  prefer  a  conserve  of  apricot,  gooseberry,  or 
greengage.  Another  purpose  to  which  to  put 
this  vegetable  is — 

Scoop  out  the  seeds,  after  cutting  it  in  half^ 
lengthways.  Fill  the  space  with  minced  veal 
(cooked),  small  cubes  of  bacon,  and  plenty  of  season- 
ing— some  people  add  the  yoke  of  an  egg — put  on 
the  other  half  marrow,  and  bake  for  half-an-hour. 

This  Baked  Marrow  is  a  cheap  and  homely 
dish  which,  like  many  another  savoury  dish, 
seldom  finds  its  way  to  the  rich  man's  dining- 
room. 

The  Artichoke  is  a  species  of  thistle ;  and 
the  man  who  pays  the  usual  high-toned  restaurant 
prices  for  the  pleasure  of  eating  such  insipid 
food,  is  an — never  mind  what.     Boil  the  thing 


VEGETABLES  131 

in  salt  and  water,  and  dip  the  ends  of  the  leaves 
in  oil  and  vinegar,  or  Holland  sauce,  before 
eating.  Then  you  will  enjoy  the  really  fine 
flavour  of  the — oil  and  vinegar,  or  Holland 
sauce. 

The  so-called  Jerusalem  Artichoke  is 
really  a  species  of  sunflower.  Its  tuber  is  not  a 
universal  favourite,  though  it  possesses  far  from  a 
coarse  flavour.  The  plant  has  nothing  whatever 
to  do  with  Jerusalem,  and  never  had.  Put  a 
tuber  or  two  into  your  garden,  and  you  will 
have  Jerusalem  artichokes  as  long  as  you  live  on 
those  premises.  For  the  vegetable  will  stay  with 
you  as  long  as  the  gout,  or  the  rate-gatherer. 
Pheasants  are  particularly  partial  to  this  sort  of 
crop. 

By  far  the  best  vegetable  production  of  the 
gorgeous  East  is  the 

Brtnjal 

'Tis  oval  in  shape,  and  about  the  size  of  a  hen's 
egg,  the  surface  being  purple  in  colour.  It  is 
usually  cut  in  twain  and  done  "  on  the  grating  "  ; 
I  have  met  something  very  like  the  hrinjal  in 
Covent  Garden  ;  but  can  find  no  record  of  the 
vegetable's  pedigree  in  any  book. 

Although  there  are  still  many  vegetarian 
restaurants  in  our  large  towns,  the  prejudice 
against  animal  food  is,  happily,  dying  out ;  and 
if  ridicule  could  kill,  we  should  not  hear  much 
more  of  the  "cranks"  who  with  delightful 
inconsistency,  would  spurn  a  collop  of  beef, 
and  gorge  themselves  on  milk,  in  every  shape 
and   form.     If  milk,  butter,  and   cheese   be  not 


132  CAKES  AND  ALE 

animal  food  I  should  like  to  know  what  is? 
And  it  is  as  reasonable  to  ask  a  man  to  sustain 
life  on  dried  peas  and  mushrooms  as  to  feed  a 
tiger  on  cabbages. 

Once,  and  only  once,  has  the  writer  attempted  a 

Vegetarian  Banquet, 

It  was  savoury  enough ;  and  possessed  the 
additional  merit  of  being  cheap.  Decidedly 
"  filling  at  the  price  "  was  that  meal.  We — I 
had  a  messmate  —  commenced  with  (alleged) 
Scotch  broth  —  which  consisted  principally  of 
dried  peas,  pearl  barley,  and  oatmeal — and  a  large 
slice  of  really  excellent  brown  bread  was  served, 
to  each,  with  this  broth.  Thereupon  followed  a 
savoury  stew  of  onions  and  tomatoes,  relieved  by 
a  "savoury  pie,"  apparently  made  from  potatoes, 
leeks,  bread  crumbs,  butter,  and  "postponed" 
mushrooms.  We  had  "gone  straight"  up  to  now, 
but  both  shied  a  bit  at  the  maccaroni  and  grated 
cheese.  We  had  two  bottles  of  ginger  beer 
apiece,  with  this  dinner,  which  cost  less  than 
three  shillings  for  the  two,  after  the  dapper  little 
waitress  had  been  feed.  On  leaving,  we  both 
agreed  to  visit  that  cleanly  and  well-ordered 
little  house  again,  if  only  from  motives  of 
economy  ;  but  within  half  an  hour  that  pro- 
gramme was  changed. 

Like  the  old  lady  at  the  tea-drinking,  I 
commenced  to  "  swell  wisibly  " ;  and  so  did  my 
companion. 

"Mon  alive  !  "  he  gasped.  "  I  feel  just  for  all 
the  wor-rld   like  a  captive  balloon,  or  a  puffy- 


VEGETABLES 


133 


dunter — that's  a  puffing   whale,  ye   ken.      Til 
veesit  yon  onion-hoose  nae  mair  i'  ma  life  !  " 

And  I  think  it  cost  us  something  like  half  a 
sovereign  in  old  brandy  to  neutralise  the  effects 
of  that  vegetarian  banquet. 


CHAPTER    XII 


CURRIES 

"  Thou  com'st  in  such  a  questionable  shape 
That  I  will  speak  to  thee." 

Different  modes  of  manufacture — The  "native"  fraud — "That 
man's  family  " — The  French  kari — A  Parsee  curry — "  The 
oyster  in  the  sauce  " — Ingredients — Malay  curry — Locusts — 
When  to  serve — What  to  curry — Prawn  curry — Dry  curry, 
a  champion  recipe — Rice — The  Bombay  duck. 

The  poor  Indian  grinds  his  coriander  seeds,  green 
ginger,  and  other  ingredients  between  two  large 
flat  stones  ;  taking  a  whiff  at  the  family  "  hubble- 
bubble"  pipe  at  intervals.  The  frugal  British 
housewife  purchases  (alleged)  curry  powder  in 
the  warehouse  of  Italy — where  it  may  have  lived 
on,  like  Claudian,  "  through  the  centuries  " — 
stirs  a  spoonful  or  two  into  the  hashed  mutton, 
surrounds  it  with  a  wall  of  clammy  rice,  and  calls 
it  Benares  Curry,  made  from  the  recipe  of  a 
very  dear  uncle  who  met  his  death  while  tiger- 
shooting.  A.nd  you  will  be  in  the  minority  if 
you  do  not  cut  this  savoury  meat  with  a  knife, 
and  eat  potatoes,  and  very  often  cabbage,  with 


CURRIES  135 

it.  The  far-seeing  eating-house  keeper  corrals  a 
Lascar  or  a  discharged  Mehtar  into  the  firm, 
gives  him  his  board,  a  pound  a  month,  and  a 
clean  puggaree  and  Kurnmerhund  daily,  and  "stars  " 
him  in  the  bill  as  an  "  Indian  chef^  fresh  from  the 
Chowringhee  Club,  Calcutta."  And  it  is  part 
of  the  duties  of  this  Oriental — supposed  by  the 
unwary  to  be  at  least  a  prince  in  his  native  land 
— to  hand  the  portions  of  curry,  w^hich  he  may 
or  may  not  have  concocted,  to  the  appreciative 
guests,  who  enjoy  the  repast  all  the  more  from 
having  the  scent  of  the  Hooghly  brought  across 
the  footlights.  I  was  once  sadly  and  solemnly 
reproved  by  the  head  waiter  of  a  very  "  swagger  " 
establishment  indeed  for  sending  away,  after  one 
little  taste,  the  (alleged)  curry  which  had  been 
handed  me  by  an  exile  from  Ind,  in  snow-white 
raiment. 

"You  really  ought  to  have  eaten  that,  sir," 
said  the  waiter, "  for  that  man's  family  have  been 
celebrated  curry-makers  for  generations." 

I  smole  a  broad  smile.  In  the  Land  of  the 
Moguls  the  very  babies  who  roll  in  the  dust 
know  the  secret  of  curry -making.  But  that 
"  that  man "  had  had  any  hand  in  the  horrible 
concoction  placed  before  me  I  still  resolutely 
decline  to  believe.  And  how  can  a  man  be 
cook  and  waiter  at  the  same  time  ?  The  "  native 
curry-maker,"  depend  on  it,  is  more  or  less  of  a 
fraud  ;  and  his  aid  is  only  invoked  as  an  excuse 
for  overcharging. 

At  the  Oriental  Club  are  served,  or  used  to  be 
served,  really  excellent  curries,  assorted  ;  for  as 
there  be  more  ways  than  one  of  killing  a  cat,  so 


n6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

are  there  more  curries  than  one.  The  French 
turn  out  a  horrible  mixture,  with  parsley  and 
mushrooms  in  it,  which  they  call  kari ;  it  is 
called  by  a  still  worse  name  on  the  Boulevards, 
and  the  children  of  our  lively  neighbours  are 
frequently  threatened  with  it  by  their  nurses. 

On  the  whole,  the  East  Indian  method  is  the 
best ;  and  the  most  philanthropic  curry  I  ever 
tasted  was  one  which  my  own  Khtt?nughar  had 
just  prepared,  with  infinite  pains,  for  his  own 
consumption.  The  poor  heathen  had  prospected 
a  feast,  as  it  was  one  of  his  numerous  "  big 
days "  ;  so,  despising  the  homely  dhal^  on  the 
which,  with  a  plate  of  rice  and  a  modicum  of 
rancid  butter,  he  was  wont  to  sustain  existence, 
he  had  manufactured  a  savoury  mess  of  pottage, 
the  looks  of  which  gratified  me.  So,  at  the  risk 
of  starting  another  Mutiny,  it  was  ordained  that 
the  slave  should  serve  the  refection  at  the  table 
of  the  "  protector  of  the  poor."  And  a  pukkha 
curry  it  was,  too.  Another  dish  of  native 
manufacture  with  which  the  writer  became 
acquainted  was  a 

Parsee  Curry, 

The  eminent  firm  of  Jehangeer  on  one  occasion 
presented  a  petition  to  the  commanding-officer 
that  they  might  be  allowed  to  supply  a  special 
curry  to  the  mess  one  guest-night.  The  request 
was  probably  made  as  an  inducement  to  some  of 
the  young  officers  to  pay  a  little  on  account  of 
their  "  owings "  to  the  firm  ;  but  it  is  to  be 
feared  that  no  special  vote  of  thanks  followed  the 
sampling  of  that  special  curry.     It  was  a  curry  I 


CURRIES  137 

I  tasted  it  for  a  week  (as  the  Frenchman  did 
the  soup  of  Swindon)  ;  and  the  Parsee  chef 
must  have  upset  the  entire  contents  of  the  spice- 
box  into  it.  I  never  felt  more  like  murder  than 
when  the  hotel  cook  in  Manchester  put  nutmeg 
in  the  oyster  sauce  ;  but  after  that  curry,  the 
strangling  of  the  entire  firm  of  Jehangeer  would, 
in  our  cantonments,  at  all  events,  have  been 
brought  in  "justifiable  homicide." 

"  Oyster  sauce  "  recalls  a  quaint  simile  I  once 
heard  a  bookmaker  make  use  of.  He  was  talking 
of  one  of  his  aristocratic  debtors,  whom  he  de- 
scribed as  sure  to  pay  up,  if  you  could  only  get 
hold  of  him.  "  But  mark  you,"  continued  the 
layer  of  odds,  "he's  just  about  as  easy  to  get 
hold  of  as  the  oyster  in  the  sauce^  at  one  of  our 
moonicipal  banquets  ! "  But  return  we  to  our 
coriander  seeds.  There  is  absolutely  no  reason 
why  the  frugal  housewife  in  this  country  should 
not  make  her  own  curry  powder  from  day  to 
day,  as  it  may  be  required.  Here  is  an  average 
Indian  recipe  ;  but  it  must  be  remembered  that 
in  the  gorgeous  East  tastes  vary  as  much  as 
elsewhere,  and  that  Bengal,  Bombay,  Madras 
(including  Burmah),  Ceylon,  and  the  Straits 
Settlements,  have  all  different  methods  of  pre- 
paring a  curry. 

A  few  coriander  and  cumin  seeds — according  to 
taste — eight  peppercorns,  a  small  piece  of  turmeric, 
and  one  dried  chili,  all  pounded  together. 

When  making  the  curry  mixture,  take  a  piece  of 
the  heart  of  a  cabbage,  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  ;  chop 
it  fine  and  add  one  sour  apple  in  thin  slices  the  size 
of  a  Keswick  codlin,  the  juice  of  a  medium-sized 


138  CAKES  AND  ALE 

lemon,  a  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  above  curry  powder.  Mix  all  well 
together  ;  then  take  six  medium-sized  onions  which 
have  been  chopped  small  and  fried  a  delicate  brown, 
a  clove  of  garlic,  also  chopped  small,  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  two  ounces  of  flour,  and  one  pint  of 
beef  gravy.  Boil  up  this  lot  (which  commences 
with  the  onions),  and  when  boiling  stir  in  the  rest  of 
the  mixture.  Let  it  all  simmer  down,  and  then 
add  the  solid  part  of  the  curry,  i.e.  the  meat,  cut 
in  portions  not  larger  than  two  inches  square. 

Remember,  O  frugal  housewife,  that  the 
turmeric  portion  of  the  entertainment  should  be 
added  with  a  niggard  hand.  "Too  much  tur- 
meric" is  the  fault  which  is  found  with  most 
curries  made  in  England.  I  remember,  when  a 
boy,  that  there  was  an  idea  rooted  in  my  mind 
that  curries  were  made  with  Doctor  Gregory's 
Powder,  an  unsavoury  drug  with  which  we  were 
periodically  regaled  by  the  head  nurse  ;  and  there 
was  always  a  fierce  conflict  at  the  dinner-table 
when  the  bill-of-fare  included  this  (as  we  supposed) 
physic-al  terror.  But  it  was  simply  the  taste  of 
turmeric  to  which  we  took  exception. 

What  is  Turmeric  ?  A  plant  in  cultivation 
all  over  India,  whose  tubers  yield  a  deep  yellow 
powder  of  a  resinous  nature.  This  resinous 
powder  is  sold  in  lumps,  and  is  largely  used  for 
adulterating  mustard  ;  just  as  inferior  anchovy 
sauce  is  principally  composed  of  Armenian  Bole, 
the  deep  red  powder  with  which  the  actor  makes 
up  his  countenance.  Turmeric  is  also  used 
medicinally  in  Hindustan,  but  not  this  side  of 
Suez,  although   in   chemistry  it   affords    an    in- 


CURRIES  139 

fallible  test  for  the  presence  of  alkalies.  The 
Coriander  has  become  naturalised  in  parts  of 
England,  but  is  more  used  on  the  Continent. 
Our  confectioners  put  the  seeds  in  cakes  and 
buns,  also  comfits,  and  in  Germany,  Norway, 
Sweden,  and  (I  fancy)  Russia,  they  figure  in 
household  bread.  In  the  south  of  England, 
coriander  and  caraway  seeds  are  sown  side  by 
side,  and  crops  of  each  are  obtained  in  alternate 
years.  The  coriander  seed,  too,  is  largely  used 
with  that  of  the  caraway  and  the  cumin,  for 
making  the  liqueur  known  as  Kummel. 

Cumin  is  mentioned  in  Scripture  as  something 
particularly  nice.  The  seeds  are  sweet-savoured, 
something  like  those  of  the  caraway,  but  more 
potent.  In  Germany  they  put  them  into  bread, 
and  the  Dutch  use  them  to  flavour  their  cheeses. 
The  seeds  we  get  in  England  come  principally 
from  Sicily  ^nd  Malta. 

And  now  that  my  readers  know  all  about  the 
ingredients  of  curry-powder — it  is  assumed  that 
no  analysis  of  the  chili,  the  ginger-root,  or  the 
peppercorn,  is  needed — let  them  emulate  the  pupils 
of  Mr.  Wackford  Squeers,  and  "  go  and  do  it." 

Another  Recipe  for  curry-powder  includes 
fenugreek,  cardamoms,  allspice,  and  cloves  ;  but 
I  verily  believe  that  this  was  the  powder  used  in 
that  abominable  Parsee  hell-broth,  above  alluded 
to,  so  it  should  be  cautiously  approached,  if  at  all. 
"  Fenugreek "  sounds  evil ;  and  I  should  say  a 
curry  compounded  of  the  above  ingredients 
would  taste  like  a  "Number  One"  pick-me-up. 
Yet  another  recipe  (Doctor  Kitchener's) 
specifies  six  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  five  ounces 


140  CAKES  AND  ALE 

of  turmeric  [ower  muckle^  Pth  of  ope  en  ion)  two 
ounces  each  of  black  pepper  and  mustard  seed 
{ochone  !\  half  an  ounce  of  cumin  seed,  half  an 
ounce  of  cinnamon  {donner  und  hlit%en!\  and 
one  ounce  of  lesser  cardamoms.  All  these  things 
are  to  be  placed  in  a  cool  oven,  kept  therein  one 
night,  and  pounded  in  a  marble  mortar  next 
morning,  preparatory  to  being  rubbed  through  a 
sieve.  "  Kitchener  "  sounds  like  a  good  cooking 
name  ;  but,  with  all  due  respect,  I  am  not  going 
to  recommend  his  curry-powder. 

A  Malay  curry  is  made  with  blanched 
almonds,  which  should  be  fried  in  butter  till 
hghtly  browned.  Then  pound  them  to  a  paste 
with  a  sliced  onion  and  some  thin  lemon-rind. 
Curry  powder  and  gravy  are  added,  and  a  small 
quantity  of  cream.  The  Malays  curry  all  sorts 
of  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl,  including  the  young 
shoots  of  the  bamboo — and  nice  tender,  succulent 
morsels  they  are.  At  a  hotel  overlooking  the 
harbour  of  Point  de  Galle,  Ceylon,  "run,"  at 
the  time  of  the  writer's  visit,  by  a  most  convivial 
and  enterprising  Yankee,  a  cunning  concocter  of 
all  sorts  of  "  slings  "  and  "  cocktails,"  there  used 
to  be  quite  a  plethora  of  curries  in  the  bill-of-fare. 
But  for  a  prawn  curry  there  is  no  place  like  the 
City  of  Palaces.  And  the  reason  for  this  super- 
excellence  is  that  the  prawns — but  that  story  had, 
perhaps,  best  remain  untold. 

Curried  Locusts  formed  one  of  the  most 
eccentric  dishes  ever  tasted  by  the  writer.  There 
had  come  upon  us  that  day  a  plague  of  these  all- 
devouring  insects.  A  few  billions  called  on  us, 
in  our  kitchen  gardens,  in  passing  j  and  whilst 


Curries  ui 

they  ate  up  every  green  thing — including  the 
newly-painted  wheelbarrow,  and  the  regimental 
standard,  which  had  been  incautiously  left  out  of 
doors  —  our  faithful  blacks  managed  to  capture 
several  impis  of  the  marauding  scuts,  in  revenge  ; 
and  the  mess-cook  made  a  right  savoury  plat  of 
their  hind-quarters. 

It  is  criminal  to  serve  curry  during  the  entree 
period  of  dinner.  And  it  is  worse  form  still  to 
hand  it  round  after  gooseberry  tart  and  cream, 
and  trifle,  as  I  have  seen  done  at  one  great  house. 
In  the  land  of  its  birth,  the  spicy  pottage  invari- 
ably precedes  the  sweets.  Nubbee  Bux  marches 
solemnly  round  with  the  mixture,  in  a  deep  dish, 
and  is  succeeded  by  Ram  Lai  with  the  rice. 
And  in  the  Madras  Presidency,  where  dry  curry 
is  served  as  well  as  the  other  brand,  there  is  a 
procession  of  three  brown  attendants.  Highly- 
seasoned  dishes  at  the  commencement  of  a  long 
meal  are  a  mistake  ;  and  this  is  one  of  the  reasons 
why  I  prefer  the  middle  cut  of  a  plain-boiled 
Tay  salmon,  or  the  tit-bit  of  a  lordly  turbot,  or 
a  flake  or  two  of  a  Grimsby  cod,  to  a  sole 
Normande^  or  a  red  mullet  stewed  with  garlic, 
mushrooms,  and  inferior  claret.  I  have  even  met 
homard  a  V Americaine^  during  the  fish  course,  at 
the  special  request  of  a  well-known  Duke.  The 
soup,  too,  eaten  at  a  large  dinner  should  be  as 
plain  as  possible  ;  the  edge  being  fairly  taken  ofF 
the  appetite  by  such  concoctions  as  bisque^  bouilla- 
baisse^ and  mulligatawny — all  savoury  and  tasty 
dishes,  but  each  a  meal  in  itself.  Then  I  main- 
tain that  to  curry  whitebait  is  wrong  ;  partly 
because  curry  should  on  no  account   be  served 


H*  CAKES  AND  ALE 

before  roast  and  boiled,  and  partly  because  the 
flavour  of  the  whitebait  is  too  delicate  for  the 
fish  to  be  clad  in  spices  and  onions.  The  lesson 
which  all  dinner-givers  ought  to  have  learnt  from 
the  Ancient  Romans — the  first  people  on  record 
who  went  in  for  aesthetic  cookery — is  that  highly- 
seasoned  and  well-peppered  dishes  should  figure 
at  the  end,  and  not  the  commencement  of  a 
banquet.  Here  follows  a  list  of  some  of  the 
productions  of  Nature  which  it  is  allowable  to 
curry. 

What  to  Curry, 

TuRBOT.     Sole.     Cod. 

Lobster.  Crayfish.  Prawns, — but  not  the  so- 
called  "Dublin  Prawn,"  which  is  delicious  when 
eaten  plain  boiled,  but  no  good  in  a  curry. 

Whelks.^     Oysters.     Scallops. 

Mutton.  Veal.  Pork.  Calf's  Head.  Ox  Palate. 
Tripe.^ 

Eggs.  Chicken.  Rabbit  (the  "  bunny  "  lends  itself 
better  than  anything  else  to  this  method  of  cooking). 
Pease.  Kidney  Beans. ^  Vegetable  Marrow. 
Carrots.  Parsnips.  Bamboo  Shoots.  Locust 
Legs. 

A  mistaken  notion  has  prevailed  for  some  time 
amongst  men  and  women  who  write  books,  that 
the  Indian  curry  mixture  is  almost  red-hot  to  the 
taste.  As  a  matter  of  fact  it  is  of  a  far  milder 
nature  than  many  I  have  tasted  "  on  this  side." 
Also  the  Anglo-Indian  does  not  sustain  life 
entirely  on  food  flavoured  with  turmeric  and  garlic. 
In    fact,    during   a  stay   of  seven  years  in   the 

*  Doubtful  starters. 


CURRIES  143 

gorgeous  East,  the  writer's  experience  was  that 
not  one  in  ten  touched  curry  at  the  dinner  table. 
At  second  breakfast — otherwise  known  as  "tiffin" 
— it  was  a  favoured  dish  ;  but  the  stuff  prepared 
for  the  meal  of  the  day — or  the  bulk  thereof — 
usually  went  to  gratify  the  voracious  appetite  of 
the  ^^  mehters^"*  the  Hindus  who  swept  out  the 
mess-rooms,  and  whose  lowness  of  "caste" 
allowed  them  to  eat  "  anything."  An  eccentric 
meal  was  the  mehter's  dinner.  Into  the  empty 
preserved-meat  tin  which  he  brought  round  to 
the  back  door  I  have  seen  emptied  such  assorted 
pahulwn  as  mock  turtle  soup,  lobster  salad,  plum 
pudding  and  custard,  curry,  and  (of  course),  the 
surplus  vilolif'y  and  in  a  few  seconds  he  was 
squatting  on  his  heels,  and  spading  into  the 
mixture  with  both  hands. 

In  the  Bengal  Presidency  cocoanut  is  freely 
used  with  a  curry  dressing  ;  and  as  some  men  have 
as  great  a  horror  of  this  addition,  as  of  oil  in  a 
salad,  it  is  as  w^ell  to  consult  the  tastes  of  your 
guests  beforehand. 

A  Prawn  Curry  I  have  seen  made  in 
Calcutta  as  follows,  the  proportions  of  spices, 
etc.,  being  specially  written  down  by  a  munshi  : — 

Pound  and  mix  one  table-spoonful  of  coriander 
seed,  one  table-spoonful  of  poppy  seed,  a  salt-spoonful 
of  turmeric,  half  a  salt-spoonful  of  cumin  seed,  a  pinch 
of  ground  cinnamon,  a  ditto  of  ground  nutmeg,  a  small 
lump  of  ginger,  and  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
this  with  butter,  add  two  sliced  onions,  and  fry  till 
lightly  browned.  Add  the  prawns,  shelled,  and  pour 
in  the  milk  of  a  cocoanut.  Simmer  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  add  some  lime  juice. 


144  CAKES  AND  ALE 

But  the  champion  of  curries  ever  sampled  by 
the  writer  was  a  dry  curry — a  decided  improve- 
ment on  those  usually  served  in  the  Madras 
Presidency — and  the  recipe  (which  has  been 
already  published  in  the  Sporting  Times  and 
Lady^s  Pictorial)^  only  came  into  the  writer's 
possession  some  years  after  he  had  quitted  the 
land  of  temples. 

Dry  Curry, 

I  lb.  of  meat  (mutton,  fowl,  or  white  fish). 
I  lb.  of  onions. 

1  clove  of  garlic. 

2  ounces  of  butter. 

I  dessert-spoonful  of  curry  powder. 

I  dessert-spoonful  of  curry  paste. 

I  dessert-spoonful  of  chutnee  (or  tamarind  pre- 
serve, according  to  taste). 

A  very  little  casareep,  which  is  a  condiment  (only 
obtainable  at  a  few  London  shops)  made  from  the  juice 
of  the  bitter  cassava,  or  manioc  root.  Casareep  is  the 
basis  of  that  favourite  West  Indian  dish  "  Pepper-pot." 

Salt  to  taste. 

A  good  squeeze  of  lemon  juice. 

First  brown  the  onions  in  the  butter,  and  then 
dry  them.  Add  the  garlic,  which  must  be  mashed 
to  a  pulp  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  Then  mix  the 
powder,  paste,  chutnee,  and  casareep  into  a  thin  paste 
with  the  lemon  juice.  Mash  the  dried  onions  into 
this,  and  let  all  cook  gently  till  thoroughly  mixed. 
Then  add  the  meat,  cut  into  small  cubes,  and  let  all 
simmer  very  gently  for  three  hours.  This  sounds  a 
long  time,  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  recipe 
is  for  a  dry  curry  ;  and  when  served  there  should  be 
no  liquid  about  it. 

'Tis    a    troublesome    dish    to    prepare ;     but, 


CURRIES  145 

judging  from  the  flattering  communications 
received  by  the  writer,  the  Heges  would  seem  to 
Hke  it.  And  the  mixture  had  better  be  cooked 
in  a  double  or  porridge-saucepan,  to  prevent  any 
"  catching." 

Already,  in  one  of  the  breakfast  chapters,  has 
the  subject  of  the  preparation  of  rice,  to  be  served 
with  curry,  been  touched  upon  ;  but  there  will 
be  no  harm  done  in  giving  the  directions  again. 

Rice  for  Curry 

Soak  a  sufficiency  of  rice  in  cold  water  until  by 
repeated  strainings  all  the  dirt  is  separated  from  it. 
Then  put  the  rice  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
"gallop"  for  nine  or  ten  minutes — no  longer.  Strain 
the  water  off  through  a  colander,  and  dash  a  little 
cold  water  over  the  rice  to  separate  the  grains.  Put 
in  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 

A  simple  enough  recipe,  surely  ?  So  let  us 
hear  no  more  complaints  of  stodgy,  clammy, 
"  puddingy  "  rice.  Most  of  the  cookery  books 
give  far  more  elaborate  directions,  but  the  above 
is  the  method  usually  pursued  by  the  poor  brown 
heathen  himself. 

Soyer*s  recipe  resembles  the  above  ;  but,  after 
draining  the  water  from  the  cooked  rice,  it  is  re- 
placed in  the  saucepan,  the  interior  of  which  has 
in  the  interim  been  anointed  with  butter.  The 
saucepan  is  then  placed  either  near  the  fire  (not 
on  it),  or  in  a  slow  oven,  for  the  rice  to  swell. 

Another  way: 

After  washing  the  rice,  throw  it  into  plenty  of 
boiling  water — in  the  proportion  of  six  pints  of  water 


146  CAKES  AND  ALE 

to  one  pound  of  rice.  Boil  it  for  five  minutes,  and 
skim  it;  then  add  a  wine-glassful  of  milk  for  every 
half  pound  of  rice,  and  continue  boiling  for  five 
minutes  longer.  Strain  the  water  off  through  a 
colander,  and  put  it  dry  into  the  pot,  on  the  corner 
of  the  stove,  pouring  over  the  rice  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  which  has  been  melted  in  a  table-spoonful  of 
the  hot  milk  and  water  in  which  the  rice  was  boiled. 
Add  salt,  and  stir  the  rice  for  five  minutes  more. 

The  decayed  denizen  of  the  ocean,  dried  to  the 
consistency  of  biscuit,  and  known  in  Hindustan 
as  a  Bombay  Duck,  which  is  frequently  eaten 
with  curry,  "over  yonder,"  does  not  find  much 
favour,  this  side  of  Port  Said,  although  I  have 
met  the  fowl  in  certain  city  restaurants.  The 
addition  is  not  looked  upon  with  any  particular 
favour  by  the  writer. 

"  I  have  yet  to  learn  "  once  observed  that  great 
and  good  man,  the  late  Doctor  Joseph  Pope,^  to 
the  writer,  in  a  discussion  on  "  postponed " 
game,  "  that  it  is  a  good  thing  to  put  corruption 
into  the  human  stomach." 

^  Formerly  Assistant-Surgeon  Royal  Artillery.  A  celebrated 
lecturer  on  "The  Inner  Man,"  and  author  of  Number  One, 
arm'  How  to  rake  Care  of  Him^  etc. 


CHAPTER   XIII 


SALADS 

**  O  green  and  glorious,  O  herbaceous  meat ! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Back,  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul. 
And  dip  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl !  " 

Nebuchadnezzar  v.  Sydney  Smith — Salt? — No  salad-bowl — French 
origin — Apocryphal  story  of  Francatelli — Salads  and  salads 
— Water-cress  and  dirty  water — Salad-maker  born  not  made 
— Lobster  salad — Lettuce,  Wipe  or  wash  ? — Mayonnaise — 
Potato  salad — Tomato  ditto — Celery  ditto — A  memorable 
ditto. 

If  Sydney  Smith  had  only  possessed  the  experience 
of  old  King  Nebuchadnezzar,  after  he  had  been 
"  turned  out  to  grass,"  the  witty  prebend  might 
not  have  waxed  quite  so  enthusiastic  on  the 
subject  of  "herbaceous  meat."  Still  the  subject 
is  a  vast  and  important  one,  in  its  connection 
with  gastronomy,  and  lends  itself  to  poetry  far 
easier  than  doth  the  little  sucking  pig,  upon 
whom  Charles  Lamb  expended  so  great  and 
unnecessary  a  wealth  of  language. 

But   look  at    the   terse,   perfunctory,  and   far 
from  satisfactory   manner   in    which    the   Ency- 


14?  CAKES  AND  ALE 

clopadia  attacks  the  subject.  "Salad,"  we  read, 
"  is  the  tef m  given  to  a  preparation  of  raw  herbs 
for  food.  It  derives  its  name  from  the  fact  that 
salt  is  one  of  the  chief  ingredients  used  in  dressing 
a  salad."  This  statement  is  not  only  misleading 
but  startling  ;  for  in  the  "  dressing  "  of  a  salad  it 
would  be  the  act  of  a  lunatic  to  make  salt  the 
"  chief  ingredient." 

Long  before  they  had  learnt  the  art  of  dress- 
ing the  herbs,  our  ancestors  partook  of  cresses 
(assorted),  celery,  and  lettuces,  after  being  soaked 
in  water  for  a  considerable  period  ;  and  they 
dipped  the  raw  herbs  into  salt  before  consuming 
them.  In  fact,  in  many  a  cheap  eating-house 
of  to-day,  the  term  "  salad  "  means  plain  lettuce, 
or  cress,  or  possibly  both,  absolutely  undressed — 
in  a  state  of  nature,  plus  plenty  of  dirty  water. 
Even  the  English  cook  of  the  end  of  the  nine- 
teenth century  cannot  rid  himself,  or  herself,  of 
the  idea  that  lettuce,  like  water-cress,  knows  the 
running  brook,  or  the  peaceful  pond,  as  its 
natural  element.  And  thirty  years  before  the 
end  of  that  century,  a  salad  bowl  was  absolutely 
unknown  in  nine-tenths  of  the  eating-houses  of 
Great  Britain. 

There  is  no  use  in  blinking  the  fact  that  it 
is  to  our  lively  neighbours  that  we  owe  the 
introduction  of  the  salad  proper.  Often  as  the 
writer  has  been  compelled,  in  these  pages,  to 
inveigh  against  the  torturing  of  good  fish  and 
flesh  by  the  alien  cook,  and  the  high  prices 
charged  for  its  endowment  with  an  alien  flavour, 
let  that  writer  (figuratively)  place  a  crown  of 
endive,  tipped  with  baby  onions,  upon  the  brows 


SALADS  149 

of  the  philanthropist  who  dressed  the  first  salad, 
and  gave  the  recipe  to  the  world.  That  recipe 
has,  of  course,  been  improved  upon  ;  and  although 
the  savant  who  writes  in  the  Encylop^dia  pro- 
claims that  "salad  has  always  been  a  favourite 
food  with  civilised  nations,  and  has  varied  very 
little  in  its  composition,"  the  accuracy  of  both 
statements  is  open  to  question. 

"  Every  art,"  observes  another  writer,  "  has  its 
monstrosities  ;  gastronomy  has  not  been  behind- 
hand ;  and  though  he  must  be  a  bold  man  who 
will  venture  to  blaspheme  the  elegancies  of 
French  cookery,  there  comes  a  time  to  every 
Englishman  who  may  have  wandered  into  a 
mistaken  admiration  of  sophisticated  messes, 
when  he  longs  for  the  simple  diet  of  his  native 
land,  and  vows  that  the  best  cookery  in  the 
world,  and  that  which  satisfies  the  most  refined 
epicureanism,  sets  up  for  its  ideal — plainness  of 
good  food,  and  the  cultivation  of  natural  tastes." 

And  yet  the  French  have  taught  us,  or  tried  to 
teach  us,  how  to  prepare  a  dish  of  raw  herbs,  in 
the  simplest  way  in  the  world  ! 

"Now  a  salad,"  says  the  same  writer,  "is 
simplicity  itself,  and  here  is  a  marvel— it  is  the 
crowning  grace  of  a  French  dinner,  while,  on  the 
other  hand,  it  is  little  understood  and  villainously 
treated  at  English  tables."  Ahem  !  I  would 
qualify  that  last  statement.  At  some  English 
tables  I  have  tasted  salads  compared  with  which 
the  happiest  effort  of  the  ^/f^  deserves  not  to  be 
mentioned  in  the  same  garlic-laden  breath.  And 
"garlic- laden  breath"  naturally  reminds  me  of 
the  story  of  Francatelli — of  which  anecdote  I  do 


I50  CAKES  AND  ALE 

not  believe  one  word,  by  the  way.  It  was  said 
of  Franc,  whilst  chef  2X  the  Reform  Club,  that 
his  salads  were  such  masterpieces,  such  things  of 
beauty,  that  one  of  the  members  questioned  him 
on  the  subject. 

"  How  do  you  manage  to  introduce  such  a 
dehcious  flavour  into  your  salads  ?  " 

"  Ah  !  that  should  be  my  secret,"  was  the 
reply.  "  But  I  will  tell  him  to  you.  After  I  have 
made  all  my  preparations,  and  the  green  food  is 
mixed  with  the  dressing,  I  chew  a  little  clove  of 
garlic  between  my  teeth — so — and  then  breathe 
gently  over  the  whole." 

But,  as  observed  before,  I  do  not  believe  that 
garlic  story. 

O  salad,  what  monstrosities  are  perpetrated  in 
thy  name  !  Let  the  genteel  boarding-house 
cook-maid,  the  young  lady  who  has  studied 
harmony  and  the  higher  mathematics  at  the 
Board  School,  spread  herself  over  the  subject  ; 
and  then  invite  the  angels  to  inspect  the  matter, 
and  weep  !  For  this  is  the  sort  of  "  harmony  " 
which  the  "paying  guest,"  who  can  appreciate 
the  advantages  of  young  and  musical  society,  an 
airy  front  bed-chamber,  and  a  bicycle  room,  is  ex- 
pected to  enthuse  over  at  the  table  d'hote:  a  melange 
of  herbs  and  roots,  including  water-cress  and  giant 
radishes,  swimming  in  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and 
oil,  and  a  large  proportion  of  the  water  in  which 
the  ingredients  have  been  soaking  for  hours — said 
ingredients  being  minced  small,  Hke  veal  collops, 
with  a  steel  knife.  And  the  same  salad,  the  very 
identical  horror,  obtrudes  itself  on  the  table  at 
other  genteel  establishments  than  boarding-houses. 


SALADS  151 

For  they  be  "mostly  fools"  who  people  the 
civilised  world. 

Let  it  be  laid  down  as  a  golden  rule,  that  the 
concoction  of  a  salad  should  never,  or  hardly  ever, 
be  entrusted  to  the  tender  mercies  of  the  British 
serving-maid.  For  the  salad-maker,  like  the  poet, 
is  born,  not  made  ;  and  the  divine  afflatus — I 
don't  mean  garlic  —  is  as  essential  in  the  one  as 
in  the  other.  We  will  take  the  simple  mixture, 
what  is  commonly  known  as  the 

French  Salad^ 

first.  This  is  either  composed,  in  the  matter  of 
herbs,  of  lettuce,  chopped  taragon,  chervil,  and 
chives  ;  or  of  endive,  with,  "  lurking  in  the  bowl," 
a  chapon^  or  crust  of  bread  on  which  a  clove  of 
garlic  has  been  rubbed.  But  the  waiter,  an  he 
be  discreet,  will  ask  the  customer  beforehand  if 
he  prefer  that  the  chapon  be  omitted.  The  dress- 
ing is  simplicity  itself: 

Within  the  bowl  of  a  table-spoon  are  placed,  in 
succession,  a  spot  of  made  mustard,  and  a  sprinkling 
of  black  pepper  and  salt.  The  bowl  is  filled  up  with 
vinegar,  and  with  a  fork  in  the  other  hand  the  waiter 
stirs  quickly  the  mustard,  etc.,  afterwards  emptying 
the  contents  of  the  spoon  over  the  green-stuff.  Then 
the  spoon  is  refilled — either  twice  or  thrice,  ad  lib. — 
with  Lucca  oil,  which  is  also  poured  over  the  salad. 
Then  the  final  mixing  takes  place,  in  the  salad  bowl. 

But  there  be  many  and  elaborate  ways  of  salad- 
making.     Here  is  the  writer's  idea  of  a 

Lobster  Salad 
for  half-a-dozen  guests  : 


t52  CAKES  ANt)  Alt 

In  a  soup  plate,  mix  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  —  boiled  for  thirty  minutes,  and  afterwards 
thrown  into  cold  water — into  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  a  table-spoonful  ot 
plain  vinegar,  added  drop  by  drop.  Keep  on  stirring, 
and  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  a  few 
drops  of  essence  of  anchovies,  a  teaspoonful  {not 
heaped')  of  salt,  about  the  same  quantity  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne.  [The  tendency 
of  black  pepper  is  to  make  a  salad  gritty,  which  is 
an  abomination.]  Lastly,  add,  drop  by  drop,  three 
table -spoonfuls  of  oil.  Pour  this  dressing  (which 
should  be  in  a  continual  state  of  stir)  into  your  salad 
bowl.  Add  the  pickings  of  a  hen  lobster  cut  into 
dice,  and  atop  of  the  lobster,  lettuces  which  have 
been  shred  with  clean  fingers,  or  with  ivory  forks  ; 
a  little  endive  may  be  added,  with  a  slice  or  two 
of  beetroot  ;  but  no  onion  (or  very  little)  in  a 
lobster  salad.  A  few  shreds  of  anchovy  may  be 
placed  atop  ;  with  beetroot  cut  into  shapes,  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  the  coral  of  the  lobster,  for  the 
sake  of  effect ;  but  seek  not,  O  student,  to  achieve 
prettiness  of  effect  to  the  detriment  of  practical 
utility.  I  need  hardly  add  that  the  sooner  after  its 
manufacture  a  salad  is  eaten,  the  better  will  be  its 
flavour.  And  the  solid  ingredients  should  only  be 
mixed  with  the  dressing  at  the  very  last  moment  ; 
otherwise  a  sodden,  flabby  effect  will  be  produced, 
which  is  neither  pleasing  to  the  eye,  nor  calculated 
to  promote  good  digestion. 

I  am  perfectly  aware  that  the  above  is  not  a 
strict  Mayonnaise  dressing,  in  which  the  egg 
yolks  should  be  raw,  instead  of  cooked.  But, 
like  the  Scotsman,  I  have  "  tried  baith,"  and  pre- 
fer my  own  way,  which  more  resembles  the 
sauce  Tartare^  than  the  Mayonnaise  of  our  lively 


SALAt)S  153 

neighbours,  who,  by  the  way,  merely  wipe,  in- 
stead of  wash,  their  lettuces  and  endive,  to 
preserve,  as  they  say,  the  flavour.  Of  course 
this  is  a  matter  of  taste,  but  the  writer  must  own 
to  a  preference  for  the  baptised  article,  which  must, 
however,  on  no  account  be  left  to  soak,  but  be 
simply  freed  from  dirt,  grit,  and — other  things. 

What  is  the  origin  of  the  word  "Mayon- 
naise "  ?  No  two  Frenchmen  will  give  you  the 
same  answer.  "  Of  or  belonging  to  Mayonne  '* 
would  seem  to  be  the  meaning  of  the  word  ;  but 
then  there  is  no  such  place  as  Mayonne  in  the 
whole  of  France.  Grimod  de  la  Reyniere  main- 
tained that  the  proper  word  was  "  Bayonnaise," 
meaning  a  native  of  Bayonne,  on  the  Spanish 
frontier.  Afterwards  Grimod,  who  was  a 
resourceful  man,  got  hold  of  another  idea,  and 
said  that  the  word  was  probably  "Mahonnaise," 
and  so  named  in  honour  of  Marshal  Richelieu's 
capture  of  the  stronghold  of  Mahon^  in  the 
island  of  Minorca.  But  what  h^d  this  victory 
got  to  do  with  a  salad  dressing  ?  What  was  the 
connection  of  raw  eggs  and  tarragon  vinegar  with 
Marshal  Richelieu  ?  Then  up  came  another 
cook,  in  the  person  of  Careme,  who  established 
it  as  an  absolute  certainty  that  the  genuine  word 
was  "  Magnonnaise,"  from  the  word  "  manier^'' 
to  manipulate.  But  as  nobody  would  stand  this 
definition  for  long,  a  fresh  search  had  to  be 
made  ;  and  this  time  an  old  Provencal  verb  was 
dug  up — mahonner^  or  more  correctly  maghonner^ 
t-o  worry  or  fatigue.  And  this  is  now  said 
by  purists  to  be  the  source  of  Mayonnaise — 
"something  worried,"    or    fatigued.     And    the 


154  CAKES  AND  ALE 

reason  for  the  gender  of  the  noun  is  said  to  be 
that  in  ancient  times  lovely  woman  was  accus- 
tomed to  manipulate  the  salad  with  her  own  fair 
fingers.  In  the  time  of  Rousseau,  the  phrase 
retourner  la  salade  avec  les  doigts  was  used  to 
describe  a  woman  as  being  still  young  and 
beautiful ;  just  as  in  Yorkshire  at  the  present 
time,  "  she  canna  mak'  a  bit  o'  bread  "  is  used  to 
describe  a  woman  who  is  of  no  possible  use  in  the 
house.  So  a  Mayonnaise  or  a  Mahonnaise — I  care 
not  which  be  the  correct  spelling — was  a  young 
lady  who  "  fatigued  "  the  salad.  More  shame  to 
the  gallants  of  the  day,  who  allowed  "  fatigue  " 
to  be  associated  with  youth  and  beauty  ! 

But  can  it  possibly  matter  what  the  word 
means,  when  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  savoury  ; 
and  so  deftly  blended  that  no  one  flavour 
predominates  ?  And  herein  lies  the  secret  or 
every  mixture  used  for  the  refreshment  of  the 
inner  man  and  woman  ;  whether  it  be  a  soup, 
a  curry,  a  trifle,  a  punch,  or  a  cup — no  one 
ingredient  should  be  of  more  weight  or  im- 
portance than  another.  And  that  was  the  secret 
of  the  "  delicious  gravy  "  furnished  by  the  cele- 
brated stew  at  the  "Jolly  Farmers,"  in  The 
Old  Curiosity  Shop  of  Charles  Dickens. 

Mayonnaise  (we  will  drop  for  the  nonce, 
the  other  spelHng)  is  made  thus  : 

In  the  proportions  of  two  egg  yolks  to  half  a 
pint  of  Lucca  oil,  and  a  small  wine-glassful  of  tarragon 
vinegar.  Work  the  yolks  smooth  in  a  basin,  with  a 
seasoning  of  pepper  (cayenne  for  choice),  salt,  and 
— according  to  the  writer's  views  —  sifted  sugar. 
Then  a  few  drops  of  oil,  and   fewer  of  vinegar ; 


SALADS  155 

stirring  the  mixture  all  the  time,  from  right  to  left, 
with  a  wooden,  or  ivory,  spoon.  In  good  truth  'tis 
a  "  fatiguing  "  task  ;  and  as  in  very  hot  weather  the 
sauce  is  liable  to  decompose,  or  "  curdle,"  before  the 
finishing  touches  are  put  to  it,  it  may  be  made  over 
ice. 

"  Stir,  sisters,  stir. 
Stir  with  care  !  '* 

is  the  motto  for  the  Afayonnaise-mlxer.  And 
in  many  cases  her  only  reward  consists  in  the 
knowledge  that  through  her  art  and  patience 
she  has  helped  to  make  the  sojourn  of  others 
in  this  vale  of  tears  less  tearful  and  monotonous. 
"  Onion  atoms "  should  "  lurk  within  the 
bowl,"  on  nearly  every  occasion,  and  as  for  a 
potato  salad — don't  be  afraid,  I'm  not  going  to 
quote  any  more  Sydney  Smith,  so  don't  get 
loading  your  guns — well,  here  is  the  proper  way 
to  make  it. 

Potato  Salad. 

Cut  nine  or  ten  average-sized  kidney  potatoes 
(cooked)  into  slices,  half  an  inch  thick,  put  them  in 
a  salad  bowl,  and  pour  over  them,  after  mixing,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  tarra- 
gon vinegar,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of  minced 
parsley,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  onions  chopped  very 
fine,  with  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Shredded 
anchovies  may  be  added,  although  it  is  preferable 
without ;  and  this  salad  should  be  made  a  couple  of 
hours  or  so  before  partaken  of. 

The  German  recipe  for  a  potato  salad  is  too 
nasty  to  quote  -,  and  their  Herring  Salad, 
although  said  to  be  a  valuable  restorative  of  nerve 


156  CAKES  AND  ALE 

power,  by  no  means  presents  an  attractive  ap- 
pearance, when  served  at  table.  Far  more  to 
the  mind  and  palate  of  the  average  epicure  is  a 

Tomato  Salad, 
This  is  the  author's  recipe : 

Four  large  tomatoes  and  one  Spanish  onion,  cut 
mto  thin  slices.  Mix  a  spot  of  mustard,  a  little 
white  pepper  and  salt,  with  vinegar,  in  a  table-spoon, 
pour  it  over  the  love  apples,  etc.,  and  then  add  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  oil.  Mix  well,  and  then  sprinkle 
over  the  mixture  a  few  drops  of  Lea  and  Perrins's 
Worcester  Sauce.  For  the  fair  sex,  the  last  part  of 
the  programme  may  be  omitted,  but  on  no  account 
leave  out  the  breath  of  sunny  Spain.  And  mark 
this  well.  The  man,  or  woman,  who  mixes  tomatoes 
with  lettuces,  or  endives,  in  the  bowl,  is  hereby 
sentenced  to  translate  the  whole  of  this  book  into 
Court  English. 

Celery  Salad. 

An  excellent  winter  salad  is  made  with  beetroot 
and  celery,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  served — with  or 
without  onions — either  with  a  mayonnaise  sauce,  or 
with  a  plain  cream  sauce  :  to  every  table-spoonful  of 
cream  add  a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  a  little 
sugar,  and  a  suspicion  of  cayenne.  This  salad  looks 
best  served  in  alternate  slices  of  beet  and  celery,  on 
a  flat  silver  dish,  around  the  sauce. 

J  Gentleman  Salad  Maker. 

Although  in  the  metropoHs  it  is  still  custom- 
ary, in  middle-class  households,  to  hire  "outside 
help"  on  the  occasion  of  a  dinner-party,  we  ha^'c 


SALADS 


157 


not  heard  for  some  time  of  a  salad-dresser  who 
makes  house-to-house  visitations  in  the  exer- 
cise of  his  profession.  But,  at  the  end  of  the 
1 8th  century,  the  Chevaher  d'Allignac,  who 
had  escaped  from  Paris  to  London  in  the  evil 
days  of  the  Revolution,  made  a  fortune  in  this 
way.  He  was  paid  at  the  rate  of  ^5  a  salad,  and 
naturally,  soon  started  his  own  carriage,  "in 
order  that  he  might  pass  quickly  from  house  to 
house,  during  the  dining  hours  of  the  aristo- 
cracy." High  as  the  fee  may  appear  to  be,  it  is 
impossible  to  measure  the  width  of  the  gulf 
which  lies  between  the  salad  as  made  by  a  lover 
of  the  art,  and  the  kitchen-wench  ;  and  a  perfect 
salad  is,  like  a  perfect  curry,  "  far  above  rubies." 

A  Memorable  Salad 

was  once  served  in  my  own  mansion.  The 
dxef^  who  understood  these  matters  well,  when 
her  hair  was  free  from  vine  leaves,  had  been 
celebrating  her  birthday  or  some  other  festival ; 
and  had  mixed  the  dressing  with  Colza  oil.  Her 
funeral  was  largely  attended. 


CHAPTER   XIV 

SALADS    AND    CONDIMENTS 

"  Epicurean  cooks 
Sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce  his  appetite." 

Roman  salad — Italian  ditto — Various  other  salads — Sauce  for 
cold  mutton — Chutnine — Raw  chutnee — Horse-radish  sauce 
— Christopher  North's  sauce — How  to  serve  a  mackerel — 
Sauce  Tartare — Ditto  for  sucking  pig — Delights  of  making 
Sambal — ^A  new  language. 

It  has,  I  hope,  been  made  sufficiently  clear  that 
neither  water-cress  nor  radishes  should  figure  in  a 
dressed  salad  ;  from  the  which  I  would  also  exclude 
such  "  small  deer  "  as  mustard  and  cress.  There 
is,  however,  no  black  mark  against  the  narrow- 
leaved  Corn  Salad  plant,  or  "  lamb's  lettuce  "  ; 
and  its  great  advantage  is  that  it  can  be  grown 
almost  anywhere  during  the  winter  months,  when 
lettuces  have  to  be  "  coddled,"  and  thereby  robbed 
of  most  of  their  flavour. 

Instead  of  yolk  of  egg,  in  a  dressing,  cheese  may 
be  used,  with  good  results,  either  cream  cheese — not 
the  poor  stuff  made  on  straws,  but  what  are  known  as 
"napkin,"  or  "New  Forest"  cheeses — or  Cheddar. 


SALADS  AND  CONDIMENTS  159 

Squash  it  well  up  with  oil  and  vinegar,  and  do  not 
use  too  much.  A  piece  of  cheese  the  size  of  an 
average  lump  of  sugar  will  be  ample,  and  will  lend 
a  most  agreeable  flavour  to  the  mixture. 

Roman  Salad 

Lucullus  and  Co. — or  rather  their  cooks — 
had  much  to  learn  in  the  preparation  of  the 
"  herbaceous  meat "  which  delighted  Sydney 
Smith.  The  Romans  cultivated  endive  ;  this 
was  washed  free  from  "matter  in  the  wrong 
place,"  chopped  small — absolutely  fatal  to  the 
taste — anointed  with  oil  and  liquamen^  topped  up 
with  chopped  onions,  and  further  ornamented 
with  honey  and  vinegar.  But  before  finding 
fault  with  the  conquerors  of  the  world  for  mixing 
honey  with  a  salad,  it  should  be  remembered  that 
they  knew  not "  fine  Demerara,"  nor  "  best  lump," 
nor  even  the  beet  sugar  which  can  be  made  at 
home.  Still  I  should  not  set  a  Roman  salad 
before  my  creditors,  if  I  wanted  them  to  have 
"  patience."  An  offer  of  the  very  smallest  dividend 
would  be  preferable. 

Italian  Salad, 

The  merry  Italian  has  improved  considerably 
upon  the  herbaceous  treat  (I  rather  prefer  "  treat  " 
to  "meat")  of  his  ancestors  ;  though  he  is  far 
too  fond  of  mixing  flesh-meat  of  all  sorts  with  his 
dressed  herbs,  and  his  boiled  vegetables.  Two 
cold  potatoes  and  half  a  medium  sized  beet  sliced, 
mixed  with  boiled  celery  and  Brussels  sprouts, 
form  a  common  salad  in  the  sunny  South  ;  the 
dressing  being  usually  oil  and  vinegar,  occasionally 


i6o  CAKES  AND  ALE 

oil  seule^  and  sometimes  a  Tar  tare  sauce.  Stoned 
olives  are  usually  placed  atop  of  the  mess,  which 
includes  fragments  of  chicken,  or  veal  and  ham. 

Russian  Salad, 

This  is  a  difficult  task  to  build  up  ;  for  a  sort 
of  Cleopatra's  Needle,  or  pyramid,  of  cooked 
vegetables,  herbs,  pickles,  etc.,  has  to  be  erected 
on  a  flat  dish.  Carrots,  turnips,  green  peas, 
asparagus,  French  beans,  beetroot,  capers,  pickled 
cucumbers,  and  horse-radish,  form  the  soHd 
matter  of  which  the  pyramid  is  built. 

Lay  a  stratum  on  the  dish,  and  anoint  the  stratum 
with  Tartare  sauce.  Each  layer  must  be  similarly 
anointed,  and  must  be  of  less  circumference  than  the 
one  underneath,  till  the  top  layer  consists  of  one 
caper.  Garnish  with  bombs  of  caviare,  sliced  lemon, 
crayfish,  olives,  and  salted  cucumber  ;  and  then  give 
the  salad  to  the  policeman  on  fixed-point  duty.  At 
least,  if  you  take  my  advice. 

Anchovy  Salad, 

This  is  usually  eaten  at  the  commencement 
of  dinner,  as  a  hors  d^oeuvre. 

Some  shreds  ot  anchovy  should  be  arranged 
"criss-cross"  in  a  flat  glass  dish.  Surround  it  with 
small  heaps  of  chopped  trufiles,  yolk  and  white  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  capers,  and  a  stoned  olive  or  two. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  with  a  little  Chili 
vinegar,  and  twice  the  quantity  of  oil. 

The  mixture  is  said  to  be  invaluable  as  an 
appetiser  ;  but  the  modest  oyster  on  the  deep 
shell — if  he  has  not  been  fattened  at  the  bolt-hole 
of  the  main  sewer — is  to  be  preferred. 


SALADS  AND  CONDIMENTS  i6i 

Cooked  vegetables,  for  salad  purposes,  are  not, 
nor  will  they  ever  be,  popular  in  England,  Nine 
out  of  ten  Britains  will  eat  the  "  one  sauce " 
with  asparagus,  in  preference  to  the  oiled  butter, 
or  plain  salad  dressing,  of  mustard,  vinegar, 
pepper,  salt,  and  oil  ;  whilst  'tis  almost  hopeless 
to  attempt  to  dissuade  madame  the  cook  from 
smothering  her  cauliflowers  with  liquefied  paste, 
before  sending  them  to  table.  Many  a  wild  weed 
which  foreign  nations  snatch  greedily  from  the 
soil,  prior  to  dressing  it,  is  passed  by  with  scorn 
by  our  islanders,  including  the  dandelion,  which 
is  a  favourite  of  our  Hvely  neighbours,  for  salad 
purposes,  and  is  doubtless  highly  beneficial  to  the 
human  liver.  So  is  the  cauliflower ;  and  an 
eminent  medical  authority  once  gave  out  that  the 
man  who  ate  a  parboiled  cauliflower,  as  a  salad, 
every  other  day,  need  never  send  for  a  doctor. 
Which  sounds  rather  like  fouling  his  own  nest. 

Fruit  Salad, 

This  is  simply  a  French  compote  of  cherries, 
green  almonds,  pears,  limes,  peaches,  apricots  in 
syrup  slightly  flavoured  with  ginger  ;  and  goes 
excellent  well  with  any  cold  brown  game.    Try  it. 

Orange  Salad. 

Peel  your  orange,  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices. 
Arrange  these  in  a  glass  dish,  and  sugar  them  well. 
Then  pour  over  them  a  glass  of  sherry,  a  glass  of 
brandy,  and  a  glass  of  maraschino. 

Orange  Sauce. 
Cold    mutton,  according    to   my    notions,  is 


1 62  CAKES  AND  ALE 

"absolutely  beastly,"  to  the  palate.  More  happy 
homes  have  been  broken  up  by  this  simple  dish 
than  by  the  entire  army  of  Europe.  And  'tis 
a  dish  which  should  never  be  allowed  to  wander 
outside  the  servants'  hall.  The  superior  domestics 
who  take  their  meals  in  the  steward's  room,  would 
certainly  rise  in  a  body,  and  protest  against  the 
indignity  of  a  cold  leg,  or  shoulder.  As  for  a 
cold  loin  —  but  the  idea  is  too  awful.  Still, 
brightened  up  by  the  following  condiment,  cold 
mutton  will  go  down  smoothly,  and  even  grate- 
fully : — 

Rub  off  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  two  oranges  on 
four  lumps  of  sugar.  Put  these  into  a  bowl,  and 
pour  in  a  wine-glass  of  port,  a  quarter  pint  of  dis- 
solved red -currant  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
mustard — don't  be  frightened,  it's  all  right — a  finely- 
minced  shallot,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  some  more 
thin  orange  rind.  Mix  well.  When  heated  up, 
strain  and  bottle  off. 

But  amateur  sauces  should,  on  the  whole,  be 
discouraged.  The  writer  has  tasted  dozens  of 
imitations  of  Lea  and  Perrins's  "  inimitable,"  and 
it  is  still  inimitable,  and  unapproachable.  It  is  the 
same  with  chutnee.  You  can  get  anything  in 
that  line  you  want  at  Stembridge's,  close  to 
Leicester  Square,  to  whom  the  writer  is  indebted 
for  some  valuable  hints.  But  here  is  a  recipe 
for  a  mixture  of  chutnee  and  pickle,  which  must 
have  been  written  a  long  time  ago  ;  for  the  two 
operations  are  transposed.  For  instance,  the 
07iions  should  be  dealt  with  first. 


SALADS  AND  CONDIMENTS  163 

Chutnine. 

Ten  or  twelve  large  apples,  peeled  and  cored,  put 
in  an  earthenware  jar,  with  a  little  vinegar  (on  no 
account  use  water)  in  the  oven.  Let  them  remain 
till  in  a  pulp,  then  take  out,  and  add  half  an  ounce 
of  curry  powder,  one  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  half  a 
pound  of  stoned  raisins,  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound 
moist  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper,  one 
table-spoonful  salt.  Take  four  large  onions  {this 
should  be  do?ie  jirst\  chop  very  line,  and  put  them  in 
a  jar  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  vinegar.  Cork  tightly 
and  let  them  remain  a  week.  Then  add  the  rest 
of  the  ingredients,  after  mixing  them  well  together. 
Cork  tightly,  and  the  chutnine  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  a  month.  It  improves,  however,  by  keeping 
for  a  year  or  so. 

R.aw  Chutnee 

is  another  aid  to  the  consumption  of  cold  meat, 
and  I  have  also  seen  it  used  as  an  accom- 
paniment to  curry,  but  do  not  recommend  the 
mixture. 

One  large  tomato,  one  smaller  Spanish  onion,  one 
green  chili,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice.  Pulp 
the  tomato  ;  don't  try  to  extract  the  seeds,  for  life 
is  too  short  for  that  operation.  Chop  the  onion  and 
the  chili  very  fine,  and  mix  the  lot  up  with  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  the  same  quantity  of  sifted  sugar. 

I  know  plenty  of  men  who  would  break  up 
their  homes  (after  serving  the  furniture  in  the 
same  way)  and  emigrate ;  who  would  go  on 
strike,  were  roast  beef  to  be  served  at  the  dinner- 
table  unaccompanied  by  horse-radish  sauce.  But 
this  is  a  relish  for  the  national  dish  which  is 
frequently  overlooked. 


i64  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Horse-radish  Sauce. 

Grate  a  young  root  as  fine  as  you  can.  It  is 
perhaps  needless  to  add  that  the  fresher  the  horse- 
radish the  better.  No  vegetables  taste  as  well 
as  those  grown  in  your  own  garden,  and  gathered, 
or  dug  up,  just  before  wanted.  And  the  horse- 
radish, like  the  Jerusalem  artichoke,  comes  to 
stay.  When  once  he  gets  a  footing  in  your 
garden  you  will  never  dislodge  him  j  nor  will 
you  want  to.     Very  well,  then  : 

Having  grated  your  horse,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  cream — English  or  Devonshire — a  dessert-spoonful 
of  sifted  sugar,  half  that  quantity  of  salt,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  together,  and,  if  for 
hot  meat,  heat  in  the  oven,  taking  care  that  the 
mixture  does  not  curdle.  Many  people  use  oil 
instead  of  cream,  and  mix  grated  orange  rind  with 
the  sauce.  The  Germans  do  not  use  oil,  but  either 
make  the  relish  with  cream,  or  hard-boiled  yolk  of 
egg.  Horse-radish  sauce  for  hot  meat  may  also  be 
heated  by  pouring  it  into  a  jar,  and  standing  the 
jar  in  boiling  water — "jugging  it"  in  fact. 

Celery  Sauce^ 

for  boiled  pheasant,  or  turkey,  is  made  thus : 

Two  or  three  heads  of  celery,  sliced  thin,  put 
into  a  saucepan  with  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and 
salt,  a  dust  of  white  pepper,  and  two  or  three  ounces 
of  butter.  Stew  your  celery  slowly  till  it  becomes 
pulpy,  but  not  brown^  add  two  or  three  ounces  of  flour, 
and  a  good  half- pint  of  milk,  or  cream.  Let  it 
simmer  twenty  minutes,  and  then  rub  the  mixture 
through  a  sieve. 


SALADS  AND  CONDIMENTS  165 

The  carp  as  an  item  or  food  is,  according  to 
my  ideas,  a  fraud.  He  tastes  principally  of  the 
mud  in  which  he  has  been  wallowing  until 
dragged  out  by  the  angler.  The  ancients  loved 
a  dish  of  carp,  and  yet  they  knew  not  the  only 
sauce  to  make  him  at  all  palatable. 

Sauce  for  Carp, 

One  ounce  of  butter,  a  quarter  pint  of  good  beef 
gravy,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  a  quarter  pint 
of  cream  and  two  anchovies  chopped  very  small. 
Mix  over  the  fire,  stir  well  till  boiling,  then  take  off, 
add  a  little  Worcester  sauce,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon, 
just  before  serving. 

Christopher  North's  Sauce, 

This  is  a  very  old  recipe.  Put  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  sifted  sugar,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  and  rather 
more  than  that  quantity  of  cayenne,  into  a  jar.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  add,  gradually,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
Harvey's  sauce,  a  dessert -spoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  a  table-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  large 
glass  of  port.  Place  the  jar  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  remain  till  the  mixture  is  very  hot, 
but  not  boiling.  If  bottled  directly  after  made,  the 
sauce  will  keep  for  a  week,  and  may  be  used  for 
duck,  goose,  pork,  or  (Christopher  adds)  "  any  broil." 
But  there  is  but  one  broil  sauce,  the  Gubbins  Sauce, 
already  mentioned  in  this  work. 

Sauce  for  Hare. 

What  a  piece  of  work  is  a  hare  !  And  what 
a  piece  of  work  it  is  to  cook  him  in  a  laudable 
fashion  ! 

Crumble  some  bread — a  handful   or  so — soak  it 


1 66  CAKES  AND  ALE 

in  port  wine,  heat  over  the  fire  with  a  small  lump 
of  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  red-currant  jelly,  a 
little  salt,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  Chili  vinegar. 
Serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Mackerel  is  a  fish  but  seldom  seen  at  the  tables 
of  the  great.  And  yet  'tis  tasty  eating,  if  his 
Joseph's  coat  be  bright  and  shining  when  you 
purchase  him.  When  stale  he  is  dangerous  to 
life  itself.  And  he  prefers  to  gratify  the  human 
palate  when  accompanied  by 

Gooseberry  Sauce^ 

which  is  made  by  simply  boiling  a  few  green  goose- 
berries, rubbing  them  through  a  sieve,  and  adding  a 
little  butter  and  a  suspicion  of  ginger.  Then  heat 
up.  "A  wine-glassful  of  sorrel  or  spinach-juice," 
observes  one  authority,  "is  a  decided  improvement." 
H'm.  I've  tried  both,  and  prefer  the  gooseberries 
unadorned  with  spinach  liquor. 

Now  for  a  sauce  which  is  deservedly  popular 
all  over  the  world,  and  which  is  equally  at  home 
as  a  salad  dressing,  as  a  covering  for  a  steak  off  a 
fresh-run  salmon,  or  a  portion  of  fried  eel;  the 
luscious,  the  invigorating 

Sauce  Tartare^ 

so  called  because  no  tallow- eating  Tartar  was 
ever  known  to  taste  thereof.  I  have  already 
given  a  pretty  good  recipe  for  its  manufacture, 
in  previous  salad-dressing  instructions,  where  the 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  are  used.  But  chopped 
chervil,  shallots,  and  (occasionally)  gherkins,  are 
added  to  the  Tartare  arrangement ;  and  frequently 


SALADS  AND  CONDIMENTS  167 

the  surface  is  adorned  with  capers,  stoned  olives, 
and  shredded  anchovies. 

In  the  chapters  devoted  to  dinners,  no  mention 
has  been  made  of  the  sucking  pig,  beloved  of 
Charles  Lamb.^  This  hardened  oflender  should 
be  devoured  with 

Currant  Sauce: 

Boil  an  ounce  of  currants,  after  washing  them 
and  picking  out  the  tacks,  dead  flies,  etc.,  in  half  a 
pint  of  water,  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  over 
them  a  cupful  of  finely  grated  crumbs.  Let  them 
soak  well,  then  beat  up  with  a  fork,  and  stir  in  about 
a  gill  of  oiled  butter.  Add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the 
brown  gravy  made  for  the  pig,  a  glass  of  port,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  the  sauce  well  over  the  fire.  It 
is  also  occasionally  served  with  roast  venison  ;  but 
not  in  the  mansions  of  my  friends. 

What  is  sauce  for  Madame  Goose  is  said  to 

1  "  Of  all  the  delicacies  in  the  whole  mundus  edibiih  I  will 
maintain  it  to  be  the  most  delicate — -princeps  obson'torum.  I  speak 
not  of  your  grown  porkers — things  between  pig  and  pork — those 
hobbydehoys  j  but  a  young  and  tender  suckling,  under  a  moon 
old,  guiltless  as  yet  of  the  sty,  with  no  original  speck  of  the  amor 
immundltlae,  the  hereditary  failing  of  the  first  parents,  yet  manifest 
— his  voice  as  yet  not  broken,  but  something  between  a  childish 
treble  and  a  grumble — the  mild  forerunner  or  praeludium  of  a 
grunt.  He  must  be  toasted.  I  am  not  ignorant  that  our 
ancestors  ate  them  seethed,  or  boiled — but  what  a  sacrifice  of  the 
exterior  tegument  ! 

"  His  sauce  should  be  considered.  Decidedly  a  few  bread- 
crumbs, done  up  with  his  liver  and  brains,  and  a  dash  of  mild 
sage.  But  banish,  dear  Mrs.  Cook,  I  beseech  you,  the  whole 
onion  tribe.  Barbecue  your  whole  hogs  to  your  palate,  steep 
them  in  shalots,  stuff"  them  out  with  plantations  of  the  rank  and 
guilty  garlic — you  cannot  poison  them,  or  make  them  stronger 
than  they  are  j  but  consider,  he  is  a  weakling — a  flower."— 
Lamb  on  Pig. 


1 68  CAKES  AND  ALE 

be  sauce  for  Old  Man  Gander.  Never  mind 
about  that,  however.  The  parents  of  young 
Master  Goose,  w^ith  whom  alone  I  am  going  to 
deal,  have,  like  the  flowers  which  bloom  in  the 
spring,  absolutely  nothing  to  do  with  the  case. 
This  is  the  best 

Sauce  for  the  Goose 
known  to  civilisation  : 

Put  two  ounces  of  green  sage  leaves  into  a  jar  with 
an  ounce  of  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  a 
minced  shallot,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  ditto  of 
cayenne,  and  a  pint  of  claret.  Let  this  soak  for  a 
fortnight,  then  pour  off  the  liquid  into  a  tureen  ; 
or  boil  with  some  good  gravy.  This  sauce  will  keep 
for  a  week  or  two,  bottled  and  well  corked  up. 

And  now,  having  given  directions  for  the 
manufacture  of  sundry  "cloyless  sauces" — with 
only  one  of  the  number  having  any  connection 
with  Jla^  and  that  one  a  sauce  of  world-wide 
reputation,  I  will  conclude  this  chapter  with  a 
little  fancy  work.  It  is  not  probable  that  many 
who  do  me  the  honour  to  skim  through  these 
humble,  faultily-written,  but  heartfelt  gastronomic 
hints  are  personally  acquainted  with  the  cloyless 

Sambal^ 

who  is  a  lady  of  dusky  origin.  But  let  us  quit 
metaphor,  and  direct  the  gardener  to 

Cut  the  finest  and  straightest  cucumber  in  his 
crystal  palace.  Cut  both  ends  off,  and  divide  the 
remainder  into  two-inch  lengths.  Peel  these,  and 
let  them  repose  in  salt  to  draw  out  the  water,  which 


SALADS  AND  CONDIMENTS  169 

is  the  indigestible  part  of  the  cucumber.  ^  Then 
take  each  length,  in  succession,  and  with  a  very 
sharp  knife — a  penknife  is  best  for  the  purpose — 
pare  it  from  surface  to  centre,  until  it  has  become 
one  long,  curly  shred.  Curl  it  up  tight,  so  that  it 
may  resemble  in  form  the  spring  of  a  Waterbury 
watch.  Cut  the  length  through  from  end  to  end, 
until  you  have  made  numerous  long  thin  shreds. 
Treat  each  length  in  the  same  way,  and  place  in  a 
glass  dish.  Add  three  green  chilies,  chopped  fine, 
a  few  chopped  spring  onions,  and  some  tiny  shreds 
of  the  Blue  Fish  of  Java.  Having  performed  a  fish- 
less  pilgrimage  in  search  of  this  curiosity,  you  will 
naturally  fall  back  upon  the  common  or  Italian 
anchovy,  which,  after  extracting  the  brine  and  bones, 
and  cleansing,  chop  fine.  Pour  a  little  vinegar  over 
the  mixture. 

"  Sambal  "  will  be  found  a  delicious  accompani- 
ment to  curry — when  served  on  a  salad  plate — 
or  to  almost  any  description  of  cold  meat  and 
cheese.  It  is  only  fair  to  add,  however,  that  the 
task  of  making  the  relish  is  arduous  and  exasper- 
ating to  a  degree  ;  and  that  the  woman  who 
makes  it  —  no  male  Christian  in  the  world  is 
possessed  of  a  tithe  of  the  necessary  patience, 
now  that  Job  and  Robert  Bruce  are  no  more — 
should  have  the  apartment  to  herself.  For  the 
labour  is  calculated  to  teach  an  entirely  new 
language  to  the  manufacturer. 


CHAPTER    KV 


SUPPER 

"  We  are  such  stuff 
As  dreams  are  made  of." 

Cleopatra's  supper  —  Oysters  —  Danger  in  the  Aden  bivalve- 
Oyster  stew — Ball  suppers — Pretty  dishes — The  Tuj  Mahal 
— Aspic — Bloater  paste  and  whipped  cream — Ladies'  recipes 
— Cookery  colleges — Tripe — Smothered  in  onions — North 
Riding  fashion — ^An  hotel  supper — Lord  Tomnoddy  at  the 
"  Magpie  and  Stump." 

That  cruel  and  catlike  courtesan,  Cleopatra,  is 
alleged  to  have  given  the  most  expensive  supper 
on  record,  and  to  have  disposed  of  the  bonne  louche 
herself,  in  the  shape  of  a  pearl,  valued  at  the 
equivalent  of  ^250,000,  dissolved  in  vinegar  of 
extra  strength.  Such  a  sum  is  rather  more  than 
is  paid  for  a  supper  at  the  Savoy,  or  the  Cecil, 
or  the  Metropole,  in  these  more  practical  times, 
when  pearls  are  to  be  had  cheaper  ;  and  there  is 
probably  about  as  much  truth  in  this  pearl  story 
as  in  a  great  many  others  of  the  same  period.  I 
have  heard  of  a  fair  declassee  leader  of  fashion  at 
Monte  Carlo,  who  commanded  that  her  major 
domo  should   be    put    to    death    for   not    having 


SUPPER  171 

telegraphed  to  Paris  for  peaches,  for  a  special 
dinner  ;  but  the  woman  who  could  melt  a  pearl 

in  vinegar,  and  then  drink halte  la  !     Perhaps 

the  pearl  was  displayed  in  the  deep  shell  of  the 
oyster  of  which  the  "  noble  curtesan  '*  partook  ? 
We  know  how  Mark  Antony's  countrymen  valued 
the  succulent  bivalve  ;  and  probably  an  oyster 
feast  at  Wady  Haifa  or  Dongola  was  a  common 
function  long  before  London  knew  a  "  Scott's," 
a  "  Pimm's,"  or  a  "  Sweeting's." 

Thanks  partly  to  the  "typhoid  scare,"  but 
principally  to  the  prohibitive  price,  the  "native" 
industry  of  Britain  has  been,  at  the  latter  end 
of  the  nineteenth  century,  by  no  means  active, 
although  in  the  illustrated  annuals  Uncle  John 
still  brings  with  him  a  barrel  of  the  luscious 
bivalves,  in  addition  to  assorted  toys  for  the 
children,  when  he  arrives  in  the  midst  of  a 
snow-storm  at  the  old  hall  on  Christmas  Eve. 
But  Uncle  John,  that  good  fairy  of  our  youth, 
when  Charles  Dickens  invented  the  "festive 
season,"  and  the  very  atmosphere  reeked  of 
goose-stuffing,  resides,  for  the  most  part,  "in 
Sheffield,"  in  these  practical  days,  when  sentiment 
and  goodwill  to  relatives  are  rap-idly  giving  place 
to  matters  of  fact,  motor  cars,  and  mammoth 
rates. 

The  Asiatic  oyster  is  not  altogether  commend- 
able, his  chief  merit  consisting  in  his  size.  Once 
whilst  paying  a  flying  visit  to  the  city  of  Kurachi, 
I  ordered  a  dozen  oysters  at  the  principal  hotel. 
Then  I  went  out  to  inspect  the  lions.  On  my 
return  I  could  hardly  push  my  way  into  the 
cofFee-room.     It  was  full  of  oyster  !     There  was 


I7Z  CAKES  AND  ALE 

no  room  for  anything  else.  In  fact  one  Kurachi 
oyster  is  a  meal  for  four  full-grown  men. 

More  tragic  still  was  my  experience  of  the 
bivalves  procurable  at  Aden — which  cinder-heap 
I  have  always  considered  to  be  a  foretaste  of  even 
hotter  things  below.  Instead  of  living  on  coal- 
dust  (as  might  naturally  be  expected)  the  Aden 
oyster  appears  to  do  himself  particularly  well  on 
some  preparation  of  copper.  The  only  time  I 
tasted  him,  the  after  consequences  very  nearly 
prevented  my  ever  tasting  anything  else,  on 
this  sphere.  And  it  was  only  the  comfort 
administered  by  the  steward  of  my  cabin  which 
got  me  round. 

"Ah  !  "  said  that  functionary,  as  he  looked  in 
to  see  whether  I  would  take  hot  pickled  pork 
or  roast  goose  for  dinner.  "  The  last  time  we 
touched  at  Aden,  there  was  two  gents  'ad  'ysters. 
One  of  'em  died  the  same  night,  and  the  other 
nex'  mornin'." 

I  laughed  so  much  that  the  poison  left  my 
system. 

Yet  still  we  eat  oysters — the  Sans  Bacilles 
brand,  for  choice.  And  if  we  can  only  persuade 
the  young  gentleman  who  opens  the  bivalves  to 
refrain  from  washing  the  grit  off  each  in  the  tub 
of  dirty  water  behind  the  bar,  so  much  the  better. 
And  above  all,  the  bivalves  should  be  opened  on 
the  deep  shell,  so  as  to  conserve  some  of  the  juice  ; 
for  it  is  advisable  to  get  as  much  of  the  bivalve 
as  we  can  for  the  money.  Every  time  I  crunch 
the  bones  of  a  lark  I  feel  that  I  am  devouring  an 
oratorio,  in  the  way  of  song  ;  and  whilst  the 
bivalve  is  sliding  down  the  "  red  lane  "  it  may 


SUPPER  173 

be  as  well  to  reflect  that  "  there  slips  away 
fourpence  "  ;  or,  as  the  Scotsman  had  it,  "  bang 
went  saxpence  ! " 

In  connection  with  Mr.  Bob  Sawyer's  supper 
party  in  Pickwick^  it  may  be  recollected  that  "  the 
man  to  whom  the  order  for  the  oysters  had  been 
sent  had  not  been  told  to  open  them  ;  it  is  a  very 
difficult  thing  to  open  an  oyster  with  a  limp  knife 
or  a  two-pronged  fork  :  and  very  little  was  done 
in  this  way." 

And  in  one's  own  house,  unless  there  be  an 
adept  at  oyster-opening  present,  the  simplest  way 
to  treat  the  bivalve  is  the  following.  It  should 
be  remembered  that  a  badly-opened  oyster  will 
resemble  in  flavour  a  slug  on  a  gravel  walk. 
So  roast  him,  good  friends,  in  his  own  fortress. 

Oysters  in  their  own  Juice, 

With  the  tongs  place  half-a-dozen  oysters,  mouths 
outwards,  between  the  red-hot  coals  of  the  parlour 
or  dining-room  fire — the  deep  shell  must  be  at  the 
bottom — and  the  oysters  will  be  cooked  in  a  few 
minutes,  or  when  the  shells  gape  wide.  Pull  them 
out  with  the  tongs,  and  insert  a  fresh  batch.  No 
pepper,  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice  is  necessary  as  an 
adjunct ;  and  the  oyster  never  tastes  better. 

At  most  eating-houses, 

Scalloped  Oysters 

taste  of  nothing  but  scorched  bread-crumbs ;  and 
the  reason  is  obvious,  for  there  is  but  little  else 
in  the  scallop  shell.     Natives  only  should  be  used. 

Open  and  beard  two  dozen,  and  cut  each  bivalve 


174  CAKES  AND  ALE 

in  half.  Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan, 
and  mix  into  it  the  same  allowance  of  flour,  the 
strained  oyster  liquor,  a  teacupful  of  cream,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  and  a  pinch  of 
cayenne — death  to  the  caitiff  who  adds  nutmeg — 
and  stir  the  sauce  well  over  the  fire.  Take  it  off, 
and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice.  Put  in  the  oysters,  and  stir  the 
whole  over  a  gentle  fire  for  five  minutes.  Put  the 
mixture  in  the  shells,  grate  bread-crumbs  over,  place  a 
small  piece  of  butter  atop,  and  bake  in  a  Dutch  oven 
before  a  clear  fire  until  the  crumbs  are  lightly  browned, 
which  should  be  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Oyster  Stew 

is  thoroughly  understood  in  New  York  City. 
On  this  side,  the  dish  does  not  meet  with  any 
particular  favour,  although  no  supper-table  is 
properly  furnished  without  it. 

Open  two  dozen  oysters,  and  take  the  beards  off. 
Put  the  oysters  into  a  basin  and  squeeze  over  them 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Put  the  beards  and  the 
strained  liquor  into  a  saucepan  with  half  a  blade  of 
mace,  half  a  dozen  peppercorns  ground,  a  little  grated 
lemon  rind,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Simmer  gently 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  strain  the  liquid,  thicken  it 
with  a  little  butter  and  flour,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
(or  a  teacupful)  of  cream,  and  stir  over  the  fire  till 
quite  smooth.  Then  put  in  the  oysters,  and  let 
them  warm  through — they  must  not  boil.  Serve  in 
a  soup  tureen,  and  little  cubes  of  bread  fried  in  bacon 
grease  may  be  served  with  the  stew,  as  with  pea-soup. 

Be  very  careful  to  whose  care  you  entrust 
your  barrel,  or  bag,  of  oysters,  after  you  have  got 


SUPPER  175 

them  home.  A  consignment  or  the  writer's 
were,  on  one  memorable  and  bitter  cold  Christ- 
mas Eve,  consigned  to  the  back  dairy,  by  Matilda 
Anne.  Result — frostbite,  gapes,  dissolution, 
disappointment,  disagreeable  language. 

Ball  Suppers. 

More  hard  cash  is  wasted  on  these  than  even 
on  ball  dresses,  which  is  saying  a  great  deal.  The 
alien  caterer,  or  charcutier^  is  chiefly  to  blame 
for  this  ;  for  he  it  is  who  has  taught  the  British 
matron  to  wrap  up  wholesome  food  in  coats  of 
grease,  inlaid  with  foreign  substances,  to  destroy 
its  flavour,  and  to  bestow  upon  it  an  outward 
semblance  other  than  its  own.  There  was 
handed  unto  me,  only  the  other  evening,  what  I 
at  first  imagined  to  be  a  small  section  of  the 
celebrated  Taj  Mahal  at  Agra,  the  magnificent 
mausoleum  of  the  Emperor  Shah  Jehan.  Refer- 
ence to  the  bill-of-fare  established  the  fact  that  I 
was  merely  sampling  a  galantine  of  turkey, 
smothered  in  some  white  glazy  grease,  inlaid 
with  chopped  carrot,  green  peas,  truffles,  and 
other  things.  And  the  marble  column  (also 
inlaid)  which  might  have  belonged  to  King 
Solomon's  Temple,  at  the  top  of  the  table,  turned 
out  to  be  a  Tay  salmon,  decorated  a  la  mode  de 
charcutter^  and  tasting  principally  of  garlic.  A 
shriek  from  a  fair  neighbour  caused  me  to  turn 
my  head  in  her  direction  j  and  it  took  some 
little  time  to  discover,  and  to  convince  her,  that 
the  item  on  her  plate  was  not  a  mouse,  too 
frightened  to  move,  but  some  preparation  of  the 
liver  of  a  goose,  in  "  aspic." 


176  CAKES  AND  ALE 

This  said  Aspic — which  has  no  connection 
with  the  asp  which  the  fair  Cleopatra  kept  on 
the  premises,  although  a  great  French  lexico- 
grapher says  that  aspic  is  so  called  because  it  is 
as  cold  as  a  snake — is  invaluable  in  the  numerous 
"  schools  of  cookery "  in  the  which  British 
females  are  educated  according  to  the  teaching 
of  the  bad  fairy  Ala,  The  cold  chicken  and 
ham  which  delighted  our  ancestors  at  the  supper- 
table — what  has  become  of  them  ?  Yonder,  my 
dear  sir,  is  the  fowl,  in  neat  portions,  minced, 
and  made  to  represent  fragments  of  the  almond 
rock  which  deHghted  us  whilst  in  the  nursery. 
The  ham  has  become  a  ridiculous  mousse^  placed 
in  little  accordion-pleated  receptacles  of  snow- 
white  paper ;  and  those  are  not  poached  eggs 
atop,  either,  but  dabs  of  whipped  cream  with  a 
preserved  apricot  in  the  centre. 

It  was  only  the  other  day  that  I  read  in  a 
journal  written  by  ladies  for  ladies,  of  a  dainty 
dish  for  luncheon  or  supper  :  croutons  smeared 
with  bloater  paste  and  surmounted  with  whipped 
cream  ;  and  in  the  same  paper  was  a  recipe  for 
stuffing  a  fresh  herring  with  mushrooms,  parsley, 
yolk  of  egg,  onion,  and  its  own  soft  roe.  I  am 
of  opinion  that  it  was  a  bad  day  for  the  male 
Briton  when  the  gudewife,  with  her  gude- 
daughter,  and  her  gude  cook,  abandoned  the 
gude  roast  and  boiled,  in  favour  of  the  works  of 
the  all-powerful  Ala. 

And  now  let  us  proceed  to  discuss  the  most 
homely  supper  of  all,  and  when  I  mention  the 
magic  word 


SUPPER  177 

Tripe 

there  be  few  of  my  readers  who  will  not  at  once 
allow  that  it  is  not  only  the  most  homely  of 
food,  but  forms  an  ideal  supper.  This  doctrine 
had  not  got  in  its  work,  however,  in  the  'sixties, 
at  about  which  period  the  man  who  avowed 
himself  an  habitual  tripe-eater  must  have  been 
possessed  of  a  considerable  amount  of  nerve. 
Some  of  the  supper-houses  served  it — such  as 
the  Albion,  the  Coal  Hole,  and  more  particu- 
larly, "  Noalces's,"  the  familiar  name  for  the  old 
Opera  Tavern  which  used  to  face  the  Royal 
ItaHan  Opera  House,  in  Bow  Street,  Covent 
Garden.  But  the  more  genteel  food-emporiums 
fought  shy  of  tripe  until  within  three  decades  of  the 
close  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Then  it  began 
to  figure  on  the  supper  bills,  in  out-of-the-way 
corners  ;  until  supper-eaters  in  general  discovered 
that  this  was  not  only  an  exceedingly  cheap,  but 
a  very  nourishing  article  of  food,  which  did  not 
require  any  special  divine  aid  to  digest.  Then 
the  price  of  tripe  went  up  75  per  cent  on  the 
programmes.  Then  the  most  popular  burlesque 
artiste  of  any  age  put  the  stamp  of  approval  upon 
the  new  supper-dish,  and  tripe-dressing  became 
as  lucrative  a  profession  as  gold-crushing. 

There  is  a  legend  afloat  of  an  eminent  actor 
— poor  "  Ned  "  Sothern,  I  fancy,  as  "  Johnny  " 
Toole  would  never  have  done  such  a  thing — 
who  bade  some  of  his  friends  and  acquaintance 
to  supper,  and  regaled  them  on  sundry  rolls 
of  house  flannel,  smothered  with  the  orthodox 
onion    sauce.       But     that     is     another     story. 


178  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Practical  jokes  should  find  no  place  in  this 
volume,  which  is  written  to  benefit,  and  not 
alarm,  posterity.  Therefore  let  us  discuss  the 
problem 

How  to  Cook  Tripe, 

Ask  for  "double-tripe,"  and  see  that  the  dresser 
gives  it  you  nice  and  white.  Wash  it,  cut  into 
portions,  and  place  in  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water, 
boiling  fast.  Remove  the  saucepan  from  the  hottest 
part  of  the  fire,  and  let  the  tripe  keep  just  on  the 
boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  with  whole 
onions  and  onion  sauce — in  this  work  you  will  not 
be  told  how  to  manufacture  onion  sauce  —  and 
baked  potatoes  should  always  accompany  this  dish  to 
table. 

Some  people  like  their  tripe  cut  into  strips 
rolled  up  and  tied  with  cotton,  before  being 
placed  in  the  saucepan  ;  but  there  is  really  no 
necessity  to  take  this  further  trouble.  And  if 
the  cook  should  forget  to  remove  the  cotton  before 
serving,  you  might  get  your  tongues  tied  in 
knots.  In  the  North  Riding  of  Yorkshire, 
some  of  the  farmers*  wives  egg-and-bread- 
crumb  fillets  of  tripe,  and  fry  them  in  the  drip 
of  thick  rashers  of  ham  which  have  been  fried 
previously.  The  ham  is  served  in  the  centre 
of  the  dish,  with  the  fillets  around  the  pig-pieces. 
This  is  said  to  be  an  excellent  dish,  but  1 
prefer  my  tripe  smothered  in  onions,  like  the 
timid  "bunny." 

Edmund  Yates,  in  his  "Reminiscences,"  de- 
scribes "  nice,  cosy,  Httle  suppers,"  of  which  in  his 
early  youth  he  used  to  partake,  at  the  house  of  his 
maternal  grandfather,  in  Kentish  Town.     "  He 


SUPPER  179 

dined  at  two  o'clock,"  observed  the  late  pro- 
prietor of  the  World^  "and  had  the  most  de- 
lightful suppers  at  nine  ;  suppers  of  sprats,  or 
kidneys,  or  tripe  and  onions  ;  with  foaming 
porter  and  hot  grog  afterwards." 

I  cannot  share  the  enthusiasm  possessed  by- 
some  people  for  Sprats,  as  an  article  of  diet. 
When  very  "full-blown,"  the  little  fish  make 
an  excellent  fertiliser  for  Marshal  Niel  roses  j 
but  as  "  winter  whitebait,"  or  sardines  they  are 
hardly  up  to  "  Derby  form." 

Sprats  are  not  much  encouraged  at  the 
fashionable  hotels  ;  and  when  tripe  is  brought 
•to  table,  which  is  but  rarely,  that  food  is  nearly 
always  filleted,  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley, 
and  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

This  is  the  sort  of  supper  which  is  provided  in 
the  "  gilt-edged  "  caravanserais  of  the  metropolis, 
the  following  being  a  verbatim  copy  of  a  bill  of 
fare  at  the  Hotel  Cecil : — 

SouPER,  55. 

Consomme  Riche  en  tasses. 

Laitances  Frites,  Villeroy. 

C6te  de  Mouton  aux  Haricots  Verts. 

Chaudfroid  dc  Mauviettes.     Strasbourg  evisie. 

Salade. 

Biscuit  Cecil. 

A  lady-like  repast  this  ;  and  upon  the  whole, 
not  dear.  But  roast  loin  of  mutton  hardly 
sounds  tasty  enough  for  a  meal  partaken  of 
somewhere  about  the  stroke  of  midnight.  Still, 
such  a  supper  is  by  no  means  calculated  to 
"murder  sleep."     Upon  the  other  hand  it  is  a 


i8o  CAKES  AND  ALE 

little  difficult  to  credit  the  fact  that  the  whole  of 
the  party  invited  by  "  My  Lord  Tomnoddy  "  to 
refresh  themselves  at  the  "Magpie  and  Stump," 
including  the  noble  host  himself,  should  have 
slumbered  peacefully,  with  a  noisy  crowd  in  the 
street,  after  a  supper  which  consisted  of 

"  Cold  fowl  and  cigars, 
Pickled  onions  in  jars, 
Welsh  rabbits  and  kidneys, 
Rare  work  for  the  jaws.'* 


CHAPTER    XVI 


SUPPER  [continued) 

"  To  feed  were  best  at  home ; 
From  thence  the  sauce  to  meat  is  ceremony  ; 
Meeting  were  bare  without  it." 

Old  supper-houses — The  Early  Closing  Act — Evans's — Cremorne 
Gardens — The  "  Albion  " — Parlour  cookery — Kidneys  fried 
in  the  fire-shovel — The  true  way  to  grill  a  bone — "  Cannie 
Carle  " — My  lady's  bovver — Kidney  dumplings — A  Middle- 
ham  supper — Steaks  cut  from  a  colt  by  brother  to  "  Strafford  " 
out  of  sister  to  "  Bird  on  the  Wing." 

The  Early  Closing  Act  of  1872  had  a  disastrous 
effect  upon  the  old  London  supper  -  houses. 
What  Mr.  John  Hollingshead  never  tired  of 
calling  the  " slap-me-and-put-me-to-bed  law" 
rang  the  knell  of  many  a  licensed  tavern,  well- 
conducted,  where  plain,  well -cooked  food  and 
sound  liquor  were  to  be  obtained  by  men  who 
would  have  astonished  their  respective  couches 
had  they  sought  them  before  the  small  hours. 

Evans*s, 

The  "  Cave  of  Harmony  "  or  Thackeray  was 
a  different  place  to  the  "  Evans's  "  of  my  youth- 


i?2  CAKES  AND  ALE 

fill  days.  Like  the  younger  Newcome,  I  was 
taken  there  in  the  first  instance,  by  the  author 
of  my  being.  But  Captain  Costigan  was  con- 
spicuous by  his  absence;  and  "Sam  Hall"  was 
mn  est.  I  noted  well  the  abnormal  size  of  the 
broiled  kidneys,  and  in  my  ignorance  of  anatomy, 
imagined  that  Evans's  sheep  must  be  subjected 
to  somewhat  the  same  process — the  "ordeal  by 
fire"  —  as  the  Strasbourg  geese.  And  the 
potatoes — zounds,  sirs  !  What  potatoes  !  "  Shall  I 
turn  it  out,  sir  ?  "  inquired  the  attentive  waiter  ; 
and,  as  he  seized  the  tuber,  enveloped  in  the  snow- 
white  napkin,  broke  it  in  two,  and  ejected  a 
floury  pyramid  upon  my  plate,  I  would,  had  I 
known  of  such  a  decoration  in  those  days,  have 
gladly  recommended  that  attendant  for  the  Dis- 
tinguished Service  order.  In  the  course  of  many 
visits  I  never  saw  any  supper  commodity  served 
here  besides  chops,  steaks,  kidneys,  welsh-rarebits, 
poached  eggs,  and  (I  think)  sausages  ;  and  the 
earliest  impression  made  upon  a  youthful  memory 
was  the  air  of  extreme  confidence  which  pervaded 
the  place.  We  certainly  "remembered"  the 
waiter  ;  but  not  even  a  potato  was  paid  for  until 
we  encountered  the  head  functionary  at  the  exit 
door  ;  and  his  peculiar  ideas  of  arithmetic  would 
have  givfin  Bishop  Colenso  a  succession  of  fits. 

Who  *'  Evans "  was,  we  neither  knew  nor 
cared.  "Paddy"  Green,  with  his  chronic 
smile,  was  enough  for  us  ;  as  he  proffered  his 
ever-ready  snufF-box,  inquired  after  our  relatives 
— "  Paddy,"  like  "  Spanky  "  at  Eton,  knew  every- 
body— and  implored  silence  whilst  the  quintette 
Integer  Vitte  was  being  sung  by  the  choir.     We 


SUPPER  183 

used  to  venerate  that  quintette  far  more  than  any 
music  we  ever  heard  in  church,  and  I  am  certain 
"  Paddy "  Green  would  have  backed  his  little 
pack  of  choristers — who,  according  to  the  general 
belief,  passed  the  hours  of  daylight  in  waking  the 
echoes  of  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  or  Westminster 
Abbey,  and  therefore,  at  Evans's,  always  looked 
a  bit  stale  and  sleepy — against  any  choir  in  the 
world.  As  for  Harry  Sidney,  the  fat,  jolly-looking 
gentleman  who  was  wont  to  string  together  the 
topics  of  the  day  and  reproduce  them,  fresh  as 
rolls,  set  to  music,  we  could  never  hear  enough 
of  him  ;  and  I  wish  I  had  now  some  of  the  half- 
crowns  which  in  the  past  were  bestowed  upon 
Herr  Von  Joel,  the  indifferent  siffieur^  who  was 
"permanently  retained  upon  the  premises,"  and 
who  was  always  going  to  take  a  benefit  the 
following  week. 

"Kidneys  and  'armony" — that  was  the  old 
programme  in  the  "  Cave."  And  then  the  march 
of  time  killed  poor  old  Paddy,  and  another 
management  reigned.  Gradually  the  "lady 
element "  was  introduced,  and  a  portion  of  the  hall 
was  set  apart  for  the  mixed  assembly.  And  then 
came  trouble,  and,  finally,  disestablishment.  And 
for  some  time  before  the  closing  of  the  Cave  as 
a  place  of  entertainment,  it  was  customary  to 
remove  the  fine  old  pictures  (what  became  of 
them,  I  wonder),  from  the  walls,  at  "'Varsity 
Boat  Race  "  time.  For  the  undergraduate  of  those 
days  was  nothing  if  not  rowdy.  Youth  will  have 
its  fling  ;  and  at  Evans's  the  fling  took  the  form 
of  tumblers.  Well  do  I  recollect  a  fight  in  "  the 
old  style  "  in  the  very  part  of  the  "  Cave  "  where 


i84  CAKES  AND  ALE 

eminent  barristers,  actors,  and  other  wits  of  a 
past  age,  used  to  congregate.  The  premier  boxer 
of  Cambridge  University  had  been  exercising  his 
undoubted  talents  as  a  breaker  of  glass,  during 
the  evening,  and  at  length  the  overwrought 
manager  obliged  him  with  an  opponent  worthy  of 
his  fists  in  the  person  of  a  waiter  who  could  also 
put  up  his  fists.  Several  rounds  were  fought, 
strictly  according  to  the  rules  of  the  Prize  Ring, 
and  in  the  result,  whilst  the  waiter  had  sustained 
considerable  damage  to  his  ribs,  the  "  Cambridge 
gent "  had  two  very  fine  black  eyes.  Well  do  I 
remember  that  "mill,"  also  the  waiter,  who 
afterwards  became  an  habitual  follower  of  the 
turf. 

If  Cremorne  introduced  the  fashion  of  "  long 
drinks,"  sodas,  and  et  ceteras,  the  suppers  served 
in  the  old  gardens  had  not  much  to  recommend 
them.  A  slice  or  two  of  cold  beef,  or  a  leg 
of  a  chicken,  with  some  particularly  salt  ham, 
formed  the  average  fare  ;  but  those  who  possessed 
their  souls  with  patience  occasionally  saw  some- 
thing hot,  in  the  way  of  food — chiefly  cutlets. 
The  great  virtue  of  the  cutlet  is  that  it  can  be 
reheated  ;  and  one  dish  not  infrequently  did 
duty  for  more  than  one  party.  The  rejected 
portion,  in  fact,  would  "  reappear  "  as  often  as  a 
retiring  actor.  "  I  know  them  salmon  cutlets," 
the  waiter  in  Pink  Dominoes  used  to  observe,  "as 
well  as  I  know  my  own  mother  !  "  In  fact, 
Cremorne,  like  the  "  night  houses  "  of  old,  was 
not  an  ideal  place  to  sup  at. 

But,  per  contra^  the  "  Albion  "  was.  Until 
the  enforcement  of  the  "slap-me-and-put-me-to- 


SUPPER  185 

bed  "  policy  there  was  no  more  justly  celebrated 
house  of  entertainment  than  the  one  which 
almost  faced  the  stage  door  of  Drury  Lane 
theatre,  in  Great  Russell  Street.  One  of  the 
brothers  Cooper — another  kept  the  Rainbow  in 
Fleet  Street — retired  on  a  fortune  made  here, 
simply  by  pursuing  the  policy  of  giving  his 
customers  the  best  of  everything.  And  a  rare, 
Bohemian  stamp  of  customers  he  had,  too — a 
nice,  large-hearted,  open-handed  lot  of  actors, 
successful  and  otherwise,  dramatic  critics  ditto, 
and  ditto  journalists,  also  variegated  in  degree  -, 
with  the  usual,  necessary,  leavening  of  the 
"  City  "  element.  The  custom  of  the  fair  sex 
was  not  encouraged  at  the  old  tavern  ;  though 
in  a  room  on  the  first  floor  they  were  per- 
mitted to  sup,  if  in  "  the  profession  *'  and  accom- 
panied by  males,  whose  manners  and  customs 
could  be  vouched  for.  In  winter  time,  assorted 
grills,  of  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl,  were  served  as 
supper  dishes  ;  whilst  tripe  was  the  staple  food. 
Welsh  rarebits,  too,  were  in  immense  demand. 
And  I  think  it  was  here  that  I  devoured,  with 
no  fear  of  the  future  before  my  plate,  a 

Buck  Rarebit. 

During  the  silent  watches  of  the  rest  of  the 
morning,  bile  and  dyspepsia  fought  heroically  for 
my  soul  J  and  yet  the  little  animal  is  easy  enough 
to  prepare,  being  nothing  grander  than  a  Welsh 
rarebit,  with  a  poached  egg  atop.  But  the  little 
tins  (silver,  like  the  forks  and  spoons,  until  the 
greed  and  forgetfulness  of  mankind  necessitated 
the  substitution  of  electro- plate)  which  the  Hebes 


i86  CAKES  AND  ALE 

at  the  "  Old  Cheshire  Cheese  "  fill  with  fragments 
of  the  hostelry's  godfather — subsequently  to  be 
stewed  in  good  old  ale — are  less  harmful  to  the 
interior  of  the  human  diaphragm, 

A  favourite  Albion  supper -dish  during  the 
summer  months  was 

LamVs  Head  and  Mince. 

I  have  preserved  the  recipe,  a  gift  from  one 
of  the  waiters — but  whether  Ponsford,  Taylor, 
or  "Shakespeare"  (so-called  because  he  bore  not 
the  faintest  resemblance  to  the  immortal  bard)  I 
forget — and  here  it  is  : 

The  head  should  be  scalded,  scraped,  and  well 
washed.  Don't  have  it  singed,  in  the  Scottish 
fashion,  as  lamb's  wool  is  not  nice  to  eat.  Then 
put  it,  with  the  liver  (the  sweetbread  was  chopped  up 
with  the  brain,  I  fancy),  into  a  stewpan,  with  a 
Spanish  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
a  little  thyme,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  bay  leaf,  some 
crushed  peppercorns,  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
half  a  gallon  of  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  up,  skim, 
and  then  simmer  for  an  hour.  Divide  the  head, 
take  out  the  tongue  and  brain,  and  dry  the  rest  of 
the  head  in  a  cloth.  Mince  the  liver  and  tongue, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  in  the 
original  gravy  (thickened)  for  half-an-hour.  Brush 
the  two  head-halves  with  yolk  of  egg,  grate  bread 
crumbs  over,  and  bake  in  oven.  The  brain  and 
sweetbread  to  be  chopped  and  made  into  cakes,  fried, 
and  then  placed  in  the  dish  around  the  head-halves. 

Ah  me  !  The  old  tavern,  after  falling  into 
bad  ways,  entertaining  "  extra  -  ladies  "  and 
ruined    gamesters,    has    been    closed    for    years. 


SUPPER  187 

The  ground  floor  was  a  potato  warehouse  the 
last  time  I  passed  the  place.  And  it  should  be 
mentioned  that  the  actors,  journaHsts,  etc.,  who, 
in  the  'seventies,  possessed  smaller  means,  or  more 
modest  ambitions,  were  in  the  habit  of  supping 
— on  supping  days — at  a  cheaper  haunt  in  the 
Strand,  off  (alleged)  roast  goose.  But,  according 
to  one  Joseph  Eldred,  a  comedian  of  some  note 
and  shirt-cuff,  the  meat  which  was  apportioned 
to  us  here  was,  in  reality,  always  bullock's  heart, 
sliced,  and  with  a  liberal  allowance  of  sage  and 
onions.  "  It's  the  seasoning  as  does  it,"  observed 
Mr.  Samuel  Weller. 

Then  there  was  another  Bohemian  house  of 
call,  and  supper  place,  in  those  nights — the 
"  Occidental,"  once  known  as  the  "  Coal  Hole," 
where,  around  a  large,  beautifully  polished  ma- 
hogany table,  many  of  the  wits  of  the  town — 
"  Harry  "  Leigh  and  "  Tom  "  Purnell  were  two 
of  the  inveterates — sat,  and  devoured  Welsh 
rarebits,  and  other  things.  The  house,  too, 
could  accommodate  not  a  few  lodgers  ;  and  one 
of  its  great  charms  was  that  nobody  cared  a 
button  what  time  you  retired  to  your  couch,  or 
what  time  you  ordered  breakfast.  In  these 
matters,  the  Occidental  resembled  the  "Lim- 
mer's"  of  the  "Billy  Duff"  era,  and  the 
"  Lane's  "  of  my  own  dear  subaltern  days. 

Parlour  Cookery. 

It  was  after  the  last-named  days  that,  whilst 
on  tour  with  various  dramatic  combinations — 
more  from  necessity  than  art,  as  far  as  I  was 
concerned  —  that   the   first  principles  of  parlour 


1 88  CAKES  AND  ALE 

cookery  became  impregnated  in  mine  under- 
standing. We  were  not  all  "stars,"  although 
we  did  our  best.  Salaries  were  (according  to 
the  advertisements)  "low  but  sure";  and  (ac- 
cording to  experiences)  by  no  means  as  sure  as 
death,  or  taxes.  The  "spectre"  did  not  invari- 
ably assume  his  "  martial  stalk,"  of  a  Saturday  ; 
and  cheap  provincial  lodgings  do  not  hold  out 
any  extra  inducement  in  the  way  of  cookery. 
So,  whilst  we  endured  the  efforts  of  the  good 
landlady  at  the  early  dinner,  some  of  us  deter- 
mined to  dish  up  our  own  suppers.  For  the  true 
artist  never  really  feels  (or  never  used  to  feel,  at 
all  events)  like  "picking  a  bit"  until  merely 
commercial  folks  have  gone  to  bed. 

Many  a  time  and  oft,  with  the  aid  of  a  cigar 
box  (empty,  of  course),  a  couple  of  books,  and 
an  arrangement  of  plates,  have  I  prepared  a 
savoury  supper  of  mushrooms,  toasted  cheese, 
or  a  kebob  of  larks,  or  other  small  fowl,  in  front 
of  the  fire.  More  than  once  have  I  received 
notice  to  quit  the  next  morning  for  grilling 
kidneys  on  the  perforated  portion  of  a  handsome 
and  costly  steel  fire-shovel.  And  by  the  time  I  had 
become  sufficiently  advanced  in  culinary  science 
to  stew  tripe  and  onions,  in  an  enamel-lined 
saucepan,  the  property  of  the  "  responsible  gent," 
we  began  to  give  ourselves  airs.  Landladies* 
ideas  on  the  subject  of  supper  for  "  theatricals," 
it  may  be  mentioned,  seldom  soared  above  yeast 
dumplings.  And  few  of  us  liked  the  name, 
even,  of  yeast  dumplings. 

But  perhaps  the  champion  effort  of  all  was 
when   I   was   sojourning    in   the   good   city  of 


SUPPER  189 

Carlisle — known  to  its  inhabitants  by  the  pet 
name  of  "  Cannie  Carle."  A  good  lady  was,  for 
her  sins,  providing  us  with  board  and  lodging,  in 
return  for  (promised)  cash.  My  then  companion 
was  a  merry  youth  who  afterwards  achieved  fame 
by  writing  the  very  funniest  and  one  of  the  most 
successful  of  three-act  farces  that  was  ever  placed 
upon  the  stage.  Now  there  is  not  much  the 
matter  with  a  good  joint  of  ribs  of  beef,  roasted  to 
a  turn.  But  when  that  beef  is  placed  on  the  table 
hot  for  the  Sunday  dinner,  and  cold  at  every 
succeeding  meal  until  finished  up,  one's  appetite 
for  the  flesh  of  the  ox  begins  to  slacken.  So  we 
determined  on  the  Wednesday  night  to  "  strike  " 
for  a  tripe  supper. 

"  Indeed,"  protested  the  good  landlady,  "  ye'U 
get  nae  tripe  in  this  hoose,  cannie  men.  Hae  ye 
no'  got  guid  beef,  the  noo  ?  " 

Late  that  night  we  had  grilled  bones  for 
supper  ;  not  the  ordinary 

Grilled  Bones 

which  you  get  in  an  eating  house,  but  a  vastly 
superior  article.  We,  or  rather  my  messmate,  cut 
a  rib  from  oflF  the  aforementioned  beef,  scored  the 
flesh  across,  and  placed  the  bone  in  the  centre  of  a 
beautifully  clear  fire  which  had  been  specially 
prepared.  It  was  placed  there  by  means  of  the 
tongs — a  weapon  of  inestimable  value  in  Parlour 
Cookery — and  withdrawn  by  the  same  medium. 
Some  of  the  black  wanted  scraping  off  the  surface 
of  the  meat,  but  the  grill  was  a  perfect  dream. 
The  GuBBiNS  Sauce,  already  mentioned  in  this 
volume,  had  not  at  that  time  been  invented  ;  but 


I90  CAKES  AND  ALE 

as  I  was  never  without  a  bottle  of  Tapp  Sauce — 
invaluable  for  Parlour  Cookery  ;  you  can  get  it  at 
Stembridge's — we  had  plenty  of  relish.  Then 
we  severed  another  rib  from  the  carcase,  and 
served  it  in  the  same  manner.  For  it  was  winter 
time  and  we  had  wearied  of  frigid  ox. 

Next  morning  the  landlady's  face  was  a  study.  I 
rather  think  that  after  some  conversation,  we  propi- 
tiated her  with  an  order  for  two  for  the  dress  circle ; 
but  it  is  certain  that  we  had  tripe  that  evening. 

An  ideal  supper  in  miladi's  boudoir  is  associated, 
in  the  writer's  mind,  with  rose-coloured  draperies, 
dainty  china,  a  cosy  fire,  a  hberal  display  of 
lingerie^  a  strong  perfume  of  heHotrope  and  orris 
root — and  miladi  herself.  When  next  she  invites 
her  friends,  she  will  kindly  order  the  following 
repast  to  be  spread  : — 

Clear  soup,  in  cups. 

Fillets  of  soles  Parisienne, 

Chaudfroid  of  Quails. 

Barded  sweetbreads. 

Perigord  pat6. 

By  way  of  contrast,  let  me  quote  a  typical 
supper-dish  which  the  "  poor  player "  used  to 
order,  when  he  could  afford  it. 

Kidney  Dumpling, 

Cut  a  large  Spanish  onion  in  half.  Take  out  the 
heart,  and  substitute  a  sheep's  kidney,  cut  into  four. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  join  the  two  halves, 
and  enclose  in  a  paste.  Bake  on  a  buttered  tin,  in 
a  moderate  oven,  for  about  an  hour. 

N.B. — Be  sure  the  cook  bakes  this  dumpling,  as  it 
is  not  nice  boiled. 


SUPPER  191 

An  artistic  friend  who  at  one  time  of  his  life 
resided  near  the  great  horse- training  centre  of 
Middleham,  in  Yorkshire,  gave  a  steak  supper  at 
the  principal  inn,  to  some  of  the  stable  attendants. 
The  fare  was  highly  approved  of. 

"  Best  Scotch  beef  I  ever  put  tooth  into  !  " 
observed  the  "  head  lad "  at  old  Tom  Lawson's 
stables. 

"  Ah  !  "  returned  the  host,  who  was  a  bit  of 
a  wag,  "  your  beef  was  cut  from  a  colt  of  Lord 
Glasgow's  that  was  thought  highly  of  at  one  time; 
and  he  was  shot  the  day  before  yesterday." 

And  it  was  so.  For  Lord  Glasgow  never  sold 
nor  gave  away  a  horse,  but  had  all  his  "  failures  " 
shot. 

And  then  a  great  cry  went  up  for  brown 
brandy. 


CHAPTER    XVll 


'"''CAMPING    OUT 

"  Thou  didst  eat  strange  flesh. 
Which  some  did  die  to  look  on." 

The  ups  and  downs  of  life — Stirring  adventures — Marching  on  to 
glory — Shooting  in  the  tropics — Pepper-pot — With  the 
Rajah  Sahib — Goat-sacrifices  at  breakfast  time — Simla  to 
Cashmere — Manners  and  customs  of  Thibet — Burmah — No 
place  to  get  fat  in — Insects — Voracity  of  the  natives — 
Snakes — Sport  in  the  Jungle — Loaded  for  snipe,  sure  to  meet 
tiger — With  the  gippos — No  baked  hedgehog — Cheap  milk. 

1'he  intelligent  reader  may  have  gathered  from 
some  of  the  foregoing  pages  that  the  experiences 
of  the  writer  have  been  of  a  variegated  nature. 
As  an  habitual  follower  of  the  Turf  once 
observed : 

"  When  we're  rich  we  rides  in  chaises, 
And  when  we're  broke  we  walks  like ** 


Never  mind  what.  It  was  an  evil  man  who  said 
it,  but  he  was  a  philosopher.  Dinner  in  the 
gilded  saloon  one  day,  on  the  next  no  dinner  at 
all,  and  the  key  of  the  street.     Such  is  life  ! 

Those  experiences  do  not  embrace  a  mortal 


"CAMPING  OUT"  193 

combat  with  a  "  grizzly  "  in  the  Rockies,  nor  a 
tramp  through  a  miasma-laden  forest  in  Darkest 
Africa,  with  nothing  better  to  eat  than  poisonous 
fung'i^  assorted  grasses,  red  ants,  and  dwarfs  ;  nor 
yet  a  bull  fight.  But  they  include  roughing  it 
in  the  bush,  on  underdone  bread  and  scorched 
kangaroo,  a  tramp  from  Benares  to  the  frontier 
of  British  India,  another  tramp  or  two  some  way 
beyond  that  frontier,  a  dreadful  journey  across 
the  eternal  snows  of  the  Himalayas,  a  day's  shoot- 
ing in  the  Khyber  Pass,  a  railway  accident  in 
Middlesex,  a  mad  elephant  (he  had  killed  seven 
men,  one  of  them  blind)  hunt  at  Thayet  Myoo, 
in  British  Burmah,  a  fine  snake  anecdote  or  two, 
a  night  at  Cambridge  with  an  escaped  lunatic,  a 
tiger  story  (of  course),  and  a  capture  for  debt  by 
an  officer  of  the  Sheriff  of  Pegu,  with  no  other 
clothing  on  his  body  than  a  short  jacket  of  gaily 
coloured  silk,  and  a  loin  cloth.  My  Hfe's  history 
is  never  likely  to  be  written — chiefly  through 
sheer  laziness  on  my  own  part,  and  the  absence 
of  the  gambling  instinct  on  that  of  the  average 
publisher — but  like  the  brown  gentleman  who 
smothered  his  wife,  I  have  "seen  things." 

In  this  chapter  no  allusion  will  be  made  to 
"  up  river  "  delights,  the  only  idea  of  "  camping 
out "  which  is  properly  understood  by  the 
majority  of  "  up  to  date  "  young  men  and  maidens ; 
for  this  theme  has  been  already  treated,  most 
comically  and  delightfully,  by  Mr.  Jerome,  in  the 
funniest  book  I  ever  read.  My  own  camping 
experiences  have  been  for  the  most  part  in  foreign 
lands,  though  I  have  seen  the  sun  rise,  whilst 
reclining  beneath  the  Royal  trees  in  St.  James's 


194  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Park  ;  and  as  this  book  is  supposed  to  deal  with 
gastronomy,  rather  than  adventure,  a  brief  sketch 
of  camp  life  must  suffice. 

On  the  march  !  What  a  time  those  who 
"served  the  Widdy'* — by  which  disrespectful 
term,  our  revered  Sovereign  was  not  known  in 
those  days — used  to  have  before  the  continent  of 
India  had  been  intersected  by  the  railroad  !  The 
absence  of  one's  proper  quantum  of  rest,  the  forced 
marches  over  kutcha  (imperfectly  made)  bye- 
roads,  the  sudden  changes  of  temperature,  raids 
of  the  native  thief,  the  troubles  with  "  bobbery  " 
camels,  the  still  more  exasperating  behaviour  of 
the  bail-wallahs  (bullock -drivers),  the  awful 
responsibiHties  of  the  officer- on -baggage -guard, 
on  active  duty,  often  in  the  saddle  for  fifteen 
hours  at  a  stretch,  the  absolutely  necessary  cattle- 
raids,  by  the  roadside — all  these  things  are  well 
known  to  those  who  have  undergone  them,  but 
are  far  too  long  "another  story"  to  be  related 
here.  As  for  the  food  partaken  of  during  a 
march  with  the  regiment,  the  bill-of-fare  differed 
but  little  from  that  of  the  cantonments  ;  but  the 
officer  who  spent  a  brief  holiday  in  a  shooting 
expedition  had  to  "  rough  it "  in  more  ways  than 
one. 

There  was  plenty  of  game  all  over  the  con- 
tinent in  my  youthful  days,  and  the  average  shot 
need  not  have  lacked  a  dinner,  even  if  he  had  not 
brought  with  him  a  consignment  of  "  Europe  " 
provisions.  English  bread  was  lacking,  certainly, 
and  biscuits,  native  or  otherwise — "otherwise" 
for  choice,  as  the  bazaar  article  tasted  principally 
of  pin-cushions  and  the  smoke  of  dried  and  Hghted 


"CAMPING  OUT"  195 

cow -dung — or  the  ordinary  chupattt^  the  flat, 
unleavened  cake,  which  the  poor  Indian  manu- 
factures for  his  own  consumption.  Cold  tea  is 
by  far  the  best  liquid  to  carry — or  rather  to  have 
carried  for  you — whilst  actually  shooting;  but 
the  weary  sportsman  will  require  something 
more  exciting,  and  more  poetical,  on  his  return 
to  camp.     As  for  solid  fare  it  was  usually 

Pepper-pot 

for  dinner,  day  by  day.  We  called  it  Pepper- 
pot — that  is  to  say,  although  it  differed  somewhat 
from  the  West  Indian  concoction  of  that  name, 
for  which  the  following  is  the  recipe  : — 

Put  the  remains  of  any  cold  flesh  or  fowl  into  a 
saucepan,  and  cover  with  casaripe — which  has  been 
already  described  in  the  Curry  chapter  as  extract  of 
Manioc  root.     Heat  up  the  stew  and  serve. 

Our  pepper-pot  was  usually  made  in  a  gipsy- 
kettle,  suspended  from  a  tripod.  The  foundation 
of  the  stew  was  always  a  tin  of  some  kind  of 
soup.  Then  a  few  goat  chops — mutton  is  bad 
to  buy  out  in  the  jungle — and  then  any  bird  or 
beast  that  may  have  been  shot,  divided  into 
fragments.  I  have  frequently  made  a  stew  of 
this  sort,  with  so  many  ingredients  in  it  that  the 
flavour  when  served  out  at  table — or  on  the 
bullock-trunk  which  often  did  duty  for  a  table — 
would  have  beaten  the  wit  of  man  to  describe. 
There  was  hare  soup  "intil't"  (as  the  Scotsman 
said  to  the  late  Prince  Consort),  and  a  collop  or 
two  of  buffalo -beef,  with  snipe,  quails,  and 
junffle-fowl.     There  were  half  the  neck  of  an 


196  CAKES  AND  ALE 

antelope  and  a  few  sliced  onions  lurking  within 
the  bow!.  And  there  were  potatoes  "intil't," 
and  plenty  cf  pepper  and  salt.  And  for  lack  of 
casarine  /^e  flavoured  the  savoury  mess  with 
mango  chutnee  and  Tapp  sauce.  And  if  any 
cook,  English  or  foreign,  can  concoct  a  more 
worthy  dish  than  this,  or  more  grateful  to  the 
palate,  said  cook  can  come  my  way. 

The  old  dak  gharry  method  of  travelling  in 
India  may  well  come  under  the  head  of  Camping 
Out.  In  the  hot  weather  we  usually  progressed 
— or  got  emptied  into  a  ditch — or  collided  with 
something  else,  during  the  comparative  "  coolth  " 
of  the  night ;  resting  (which  in  Hindustan 
usually  means  perspiring  and  calling  the  country 
names)  all  day  at  one  or  other  of  the  dak  bunga- 
lows provided  by  a  benevolent  Government  for 
the  use  of  the  wandering  sahih.  The  larder  at 
one  of  those  rest-houses  was  seldom  well  filled. 
Although  the  khansamah  who  prostrated  himself 
in  the  sand  at  your  approach  would  delare  that 
he  was  prepared  to  supply  everything  which  the 
protector -of- the- poor  might  deign  to  order,  it 
would  be  found  on  further  inquiry  that  the 
khansamah  had,  like  the  Player  Oueen  in  Hamlet, 
protested  too  much — that  he  was  a  natural 
romancer.  And  his  "everything"  usually  re- 
solved itself  into  a  "  spatch-cock,"  manufactured 
from  the  spectral  rooster,  who  had  heralded  the 
approach  of  the  sahibs  caravan. 

A  Rajah's 

ideas  of  hospitality  are  massive.  Labouring  under 
the  belief  that  the  white  sahib  when  not  eating 


«CAMPlNO  OUT*'  197 

must  necessarily  be  drinking,  the  commissariat 
arrangements  of  Rajah dom  are  on  a  colossal  scale 
— for  the  chief  benefit  of  his  major  domo.  I 
might  have  bathed  in  dry  champagne,  had  the 
idea  been  pleasing,  whilst  staying  with  a  certain 
genial  prince,  known  to  irreverent  British  sub- 
alterns as  "  Old  Coppertail " ;  whilst  the  bedroom 
furniture  was  on  the  same  liberal  scale.  True, 
I  lay  on  an  ordinary  native  charpoy^  which  might 
have  been  bought  in  the  bazaar  for  a  few  annas, 
but  there  was  a  grand  piano  in  one  corner  of  the 
apartment,  and  a  buhl  cabinet  containing  rare 
china  in  another.  There  was  a  coloured  print 
of  the  Governor- General  over  the  doorway,  and 
an  oil  painting  of  the  Judgment  of  Solomon  over 
the  mantelshelf.  And  on  a  table  within  easy 
reach  of  the  bed  was  a  silver-plated  dinner 
service,  decked  with  fruits  and  sweetmeats,  and 
tins  of  salmon,  and  pots  of  Guava  jelly  and  mixed 
pickles,  and  two  tumblers,  each  of  which  would 
have  easily  held  a  week -old  baby.  And  there 
was  a  case  of  champagne  beneath  that  table,  with 
every  appliance  for  cutting  wires  and  extracting 
the  corks. 

Another  time  the  writer  formed  one  of  a  small 
party  invited  to  share  the  hospitality  of  a  potentate, 
whose  estate  lay  on  the  snowy  side  of  Simla.  The 
fleecy  element,  however,  was  not  in  evidence  in 
June,  the  month  of  our  visit,  although  towards 
December  Simla  herself  is  usually  wrapt  in  the 
white  mantle,  and  garrisoned  by  monkeys,  who 
have  fled  from  the  land  of  ice.  Tents  had  been 
erected  for  us  in  a  barren -looking  valley,  some- 
what   famous,    however,   for    the    cultivation   of 


198  CAKES  AND  ALE 

potatoes.  There  was  an  annual  celebration  of 
some  sort,  the  day  after  our  arrival,  and  for  break- 
fast that  morning  an  al  fresco  meal  had  been 
prepared  for  us,  almost  within  whispering  distance 
of  an  heathen  temple.  And  it  was  a  breakfast ! 
There  was  a  turkey  stuffed  with  a  fowl,  to  make 
the  breast  larger,  and  there  was  a  "Europe" 
ham.  A  tin  of  lobster,  a  bottle  of  pickled 
walnuts,  a  dreadful  concoction,  alleged  to  be  an 
omelette,  but  looking  more  like  the  sole  of  a 
tennis  shoe,  potatoes,  boiled  eggs,  a  dish  of  Irish 
stew,  a  fry  of  small  fish,  a  weird-looking  curry, 
a  young  goat  roasted  whole,  and  a  plum  pudding  ! 
The  tea  had  hardly  been  poured  out — Kus- 
sowlee  beer,  Epps's  cocoa,  and  (of  course) 
champagne,  and  John  Exshaw's  brandy  were  also 
on  tap — when  a  gentleman  with  very  little  on 
proceeded  to  decapitate  a  goat  at  the  foot  of  the 
temple  steps.  This  was  somewhat  startling, 
but  when  the  (presumed)  high-priest  chopped 
off  the  head  of  another  bleating  victim,  our  meal 
was  interrupted.  The  executions  had  been 
carried  out  in  very  simple  fashion.  First,  the 
priest  sprinkled  a  little  water  on  the  neck  of  the 
victim  (who  was  held  in  position  by  an  assistant), 
and  then  retired  up  the  steps.  Then,  brandish- 
ing a  small  sickle,  he  rushed  back,  and  in  an 
instant  off  went  the  head,  which  was  promptly 
carried,  reeking  with  gore,  within  the  temple. 
But  if,  as  happened  more  than  once,  the  head 
was  not  sliced  off  at  the  initial  attempt,  it  was 
left  on  the  ground  when  decapitation  had  been 
at  length  effected.  The  deity  inside  was  evi- 
dently a  bit  particular  I 


"CAMPING  OUT"  199 

Nine  goats  had  been  sacrificed,  ere  our 
remonstrances  were  attended  to  ;  and  we  were 
allowed  to  pursue  our  meal  in  peace.  But  I 
don't  think  anybody  had  goat  for  breakfast  that 
morning. 

Later  on,  the  fun  of  the  fair  commenced,  and 
the  paharis^  or  hill  men,  trooped  in  from  miles 
round,  with  their  sisters,  cousins,  and  aunts. 
Their  wives,  we  imagined,  were  too  busily 
occupied  in  carrying  their  accustomed  loads  of 
timber  to  and  fro.  Your  Himalayan  delights  in 
a  fair,  and  the  numerous  swings  and  roundabouts 
were  all  well  patronised  ;  whilst  the  jugglers,  and 
the  snake  charmers — in  many  instances  it  was 
difficult  to  tell  at  a  glance  which  was  charmer 
and  which  snake — were  all  well  patronised. 
Later  on,  when  the  lamps  had  been  lit,  a  hurra 
natch  was  started,  and  the  BengaH  Baboos  who 
had  come  all  the  way  from  Simla  in  dhoolies  to 
be  present  at  this,  applauded  vigorously.  And 
our  host  being  in  constant  dread  lest  we  should 
starve  to  death  or  expire  of  thirst,  never  tired  of 
bidding  us  to  a  succession  of  banquets  at  which 
we  simply  went  through  the  forms  of  eating,  to 
please  him.  And  just  when  we  began  to  get 
sleepy  these  simple  hill  folks  commenced  to  dance 
amongst  themselves.  They  were  just  a  little 
monotonous,  their  choregraphic  efforts.  Parties 
of  men  linked  arms  and  sidled  around  fires  of 
logs,  singing  songs  of  their  mountain  homes  the 
while.  And  as  they  were  evidently  determined 
to  make  a  night  of  it,  sleep  for  those  who  under- 
stood not  the  game,  with  their  tents  close  handy, 
was  out  of  the  question.    And  when,  as  soon  as  we 


200  CAKES  AND  ALE 

could  take  our  departure  decently  and  decorously, 
we  started  up  the  hill  again,  those  doleful 
monotonous  dances  were  still  in  progress,  al- 
though the  fires  were  out,  and  the  voices  de- 
cidedly husky.  A  native  of  the  Himalayas  is 
nothing  if  not  energetic — in  his  own  interests  be 
it  understood. 

A  few  months  later  I  formed  one  of  a  small 
party  who  embarked  on  a  more  important 
expedition  than  the  last  named,  although  we 
traversed  the  same  road.  It  is  a  journey  which 
has  frequently  been  made  since,  from  Simla  to 
Cashmere,  going  as  far  into  the  land  of  the 
Great  Llama  as  the  inhabitants  will  allow  the 
stranger  to  do — which  is  not  very  far  j  but,  in 
the  early  sixties  there  were  but  few  white  men  who 
had  even  skirted  Thibet.  In  the  afternoon  of 
life,  when  stirring  the  fire  has  become  prefer- 
able to  stirring  adventure,  it  seems  (to  the 
writer  at  all  events)  very  like  an  attempt  at 
self-slaughter  to  have  travelled  so  many  hundreds 
of  miles  along  narrow  goatpaths,  with  a  khud 
(precipice)  of  thousands  of  feet  on  one  side  or 
the  other ;  picking  one's  way,  if  on  foot,  over 
the  frequent  avalanche  (or  "land  slip,"  as  we 
called  it  in  those  days)  of  shale  or  granite;  or 
if  carried  in  a  dhoolie — which  is  simply  a  ham- 
mock attached  by  straps  to  a  bamboo  pole — 
running  the  risk  of  being  propelled  over  a 
precipice  by  your  heathen  carriers.  It  is  not  the 
pleasantest  of  sensations  to  cross  a  mountain 
torrent  by  means  of  a  frail  bridge  (called  a.jhuia) 
of  ropes  made  from  twigs,  and  stretched  many 
feet  above  the  torrent  itself,  nor  to  "  weather  " 


"CAMPING  OUT"  201 

a  corner,  whilst  clinging  tooth  and  nail  to  the 
face  of  a  clifF.  And  when  there  is  any  riding  to 
be  done,  most  people  would  prefer  a  hill  pony  to 
a  yak^  the  native  ox  of  Thibet.  By  far  the  best 
part  of  a  yak  is  his  beautiful  silky,  fleecy  tail, 
which  is  largely  used  in  Hindustan,  by  de- 
pendants of  governors  -  general,  commanders-in- 
chief,  and  other  mighty  ones,  for  the  discomfiture 
of  the  frequent  fly.  A  very  little  equestrian 
exercise  on  the  back  of  a  yak  goes  a  long  way  ; 
and  if  given  my  choice,  I  would  sooner  ride  a 
stumbling  cab-horse  in  a  saddle  with  spikes  in 
it. 

But  those  days  were  our  salad  ones  ;  we  were 
not  only  "green  of  judgment,"  but  admirers  of 
the  beautiful,  and  reckless  of  danger.  But  it 
was  decidedly  "roughing  it."  As  it  is  advisable 
to  traverse  that  track  as  lightly  laden  as  possible, 
we  took  but  few  "  Europe  "  provisions  with  us, 
depending  upon  the  villages,  for  the  most  part, 
for  our  supplies.  We  usually  managed  to  buy 
a  little  flour,  wherewith  to  make  the  inevit- 
able chupati^  and  at  some  of  the  co-operative 
stores  en  route^  we  obtained  mutton  of  fair 
flavour.  We  did  not  know  in  those  days  that 
flesh  exposed  to  the  air,  in  the  higher  ranges  of 
the  Himalayas,  will  not  putrefy,  else  we  should 
nave  doubtless  made  a  species  of  biltong  of  the 
surplus  meat,  to  carry  with  us  in  case  of  any 
famine  about.  So  "  short  commons  "  frequently 
formed  the  bill  of  fare.  Our  little  stock  of 
brandy  was  carefully  husbanded,  against  illness  ; 
and,  judging  from  the  subsequent  histories  of  two 
of  the    party,   this   was   the    most    miraculous 


202  CAKES  AND  ALE 

feature  of  the  expedition.  For  liquid  refresh- 
ment we  had  neat  water,  and  the  a  la  mode  cle 
Thibet.  Doctor  Nan  sen,  in  his  book  on  the 
crossing  of  Greenland,  inveighs  strongly  against 
the  use  of  alcohol  in  an  Arctic  expedition  ;  but 
I  confess  that  the  first  time  I  tasted  Thibet  tea 
I  would  have  given  both  my  ears  for  a  soda  and 
brandy.  I'he  raw  tea  was  compressed  into  the 
shape  of  a  brick,  with  the  aid  of — we  did  not 
inquire  what ;  its  infusion  was  drunk,  either 
cold  or  lukewarm,  flavoured  with  salt,  and  a 
small  lump  of  butter  which  in  any  civilised 
police  court  would  have  gained  the  vendor  a 
month's  imprisonment  without  the  option  of  a 
fine. 

The  people  of  the  district  were  in  the  habit 
of  gorging  themselves  with  flesh  when  they 
could  get  it ;  and  polyandry  was  another  of  their 
pleasant  customs.  We  saw  one  lady  who  was 
married  to  three  brothers,  but  di-d  not  boast  of 
it.  Thibet  is  probably  the  most  priest-ridden 
country  in  the  world,  and  ought  to  be  the  most 
religious;  for  the  natives  can  grind  out  their 
prayers,  on  wheels,  at  short  intervals,  in  pretty 
much  the  same  way  as  we  grind  our  coffee  in 
dear  old  England. 

But  we  reached  the  promised  land  at  last ; 
and  here  at  least  there  was  no  lack  of  food  and 
drink.  Meat  was  cheap  in  those  days  ;  and  one 
of  the  party,  without  any  bargaining  whatever, 
purchased  a  sheep  for  eight  annas,  or  one  shilling 
sterling.  Mutton  is  not  quite  as  cheap  at  the 
time  of  writing  this  book  (1897),  ^  beheve  ;  but 
in   the   long  ago   there   were   but    few   English 


"CAMPING  OUT"  ±03 

visitors  to  the  land  of  Lalla  Rookh,  and  those 
who  did  go  had  to  obtain  permission  of  the 
Rajah,  through  the  British  Resident. 

With  improved  transit,  and  a  railroad  from 
Rangoon  to  Mandalay,  matters  gastronomic 
may  be  better  in  British  Burmah  nowadays  j  but 
in  the  course  of  an  almost  world-wide  experience 
I  have  never  enjoyed  food  less  than  in  Pagoda- 
land  during  the  sixties.  And  as  a  Burmese  built 
house  was  not  a  whit  more  comfortable  than  a 
tent,  and  far  less  waterproof,  this  subject  may 
well  be  included  in  the  chapter  headed  "  Camp- 
ing Out."  Fruits  there  were,  varied  and  plenti- 
ful ;  and  if  you  only  planted  the  crown  of  a  pine- 
apple in  your  compound  one  evening  you  would 
probably  find  a  decent-sized  pine-apple  above 
ground  next — well,  next  week.  At  least  so 
they  told  me  when  I  arrived  in  the  country. 
This  fruit,  in  fact,  was  so  plentiful  that  we  used 
to  peel  the  pines,  and  gnaw  them,  just  like  a  school- 
boy would  gnaw  the  ordinary  variety  of  apple. 
But  we  had  no  mutton — not  up  the  country, 
that  is  to  say  ;  and  we  were  entirely  dependent 
upon  Madras  for  potatoes.  Therefore,  as  there 
was  only  a  steamer  once  a  month  from  Madras 
to  Rangoon,  which  invariably  missed  the 
Irrawaddy  monthly  mail-boat,  we  "  exiles  "  had 
to  content  ourselves  with  yams,  or  the  abomin- 
able "  preserved  "  earth-apple.  The  insects  of 
the  air  wrestled  with  us  at  the  mess-table,  for 
food ;  and  the  man  who  d,id  not  swallow  an 
evil -tasting  fly  of  some  sort  in  his  soup  was 
lucky.'     As  for  the  food  of  the  Burman  himself, 

^  Our  then  commanding  officer  was  noted  for  his   powers   of 


ao4  CAKES  AND  ALE 

"absolutely  beastly"  was  no  name  for  it. 
Strips  of  cat-fish  the  colour  of  beef  were  served 
at  his  marriage  feasts  ;  and  he  was  especially 
fond  of  a  condiment  the  name  of  which  was 
pronounced  nuppee — although  that  is  probably 
not  the  correct  spelling,  and  I  never  studied 
the  language  of  that  country — which  was  con- 
cocted from  a  smaller  description  of  fish,  buried 
in  the  earth  until  decomposition  had  triumphed, 
and  then  mashed  up  with  ghee  (clarified — and 
"postponed" — butter).  There  was,  certainly, 
plenty  of  shooting  to  be  obtained  in  the  district  j 
but,  as  it  rained  in  torrents  for  nine  months  in 
every  year,  the  shooter  required  a  considerable 
amount  of  nerve,  and,  in  addition  to  a  Boyton 
suit,  case-hardened  lungs  and  throat.  And, 
singularly  enough,  it  was  an  established  fact  that 
if  loaded  for  snipe  you  invariably  met  a  tiger,  or 
something  else  with  sharp  teeth,  and  vice  versa. 
Also,  you  were  exceptionally  fortunate  if  you 
did  not  step  upon  one  of  the  venomous  snakes  of 
the  country,  of  whom  the  hamadryad's  bite  was 
said  to  be  fatal  within  five  minutes.  I  had 
omitted  to  mention  that  snake  is  also  a  favourite 
food  of  the  Burman  j  and  as  I  seldom  went  home 
of  an  evening  without  finding  a  rat-snake  or  two 
in  the  verandah,  or  the  arm-chair,  the  natives  had 
snake  for  breakfast,  most  days.  The  rat-snake 
is,  however,  quite  harmless  to  life. 

I  have  "camped  out"  in   England  once  or 

self-control.  I  once  noticed  him  leave  the  table  hurriedly,  and 
retire  to  the  verandah.  After  an  interval  he  returned,  and 
apologised  to  the  President.  Our  revered  chief  had  only  swal- 
lowed a  flying  bug.     And  he  never  even  used  a  big  D. 


"CAMPING  OUT"  lijs 

twice  ;  once  with  a  select  circle  of  gipsies,  the 
night  before  the  Derby.  I  wished  merely  to 
study  character  ;  and,  after  giving  them  a  few 
words  of  the  Romany  dialect,  and  a  good  deal  of 
tobacco,  I  was  admitted  into  their  confidences. 
But  the  experience  gained  was  not  altogether 
pleasing,  nor  yet  edifying  ;  nor  did  we  have 
baked  hedgehog  for  supper.  In  fact  I  have 
never  yet  met  the  "gippo"  (most  of  them  keep 
fowls)  who  will  own  to  having  tasted  this  bonne 
houche  of  the  descriptive  writer.  Possibly  this 
is  on  account  of  the  scarcity  of  the  hedgehog. 
"Tea-kettle  broth"  —  bread  sopped  in  water, 
with  a  little  salt  and  dripping  to  flavour  the  soup 
— on  the  other  hand,  figures  on  most  of  the 
gipsy  menus.  And  upon  one  occasion,  very 
early  in  the  morning,  another  wanderer  and  the 
writer  obtained  much-needed  liquid  refreshment 
by  milking  the  yield  of  a  Jersey  cow  into  each 
other's  mouths,  alternately.  But  this  was  a  long 
time  ago,  and  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Bagshot 
Heath,  and  it  was  somebody  else's  cow ;  so  let 
no  more  be  said  about  it. 

I  fear  this  chapter  is  not  calculated  to  make 
many  mouths  water.  In  fact  what  in  the  world 
has  brought  it  into  the  midst  of  a  work  on  gas- 
tronomy I  am  at  a  loss  to  make  out.  However 
here  it  is. 


CHAPTER   XVIII 

COMPOUND    DRINKS 

"  Flow  wine  !     Smile  woman  ! 
And  the  universe  is  consoled." 

Derivation  of  punch— "  Five  "—The  "milk"  brand— The  best 
materials — Various  other  punches  —  Bischoff  or  Bishop — 
"  Halo  "  punch— Toddy— The  toddy  tree  of  India— Flip— 
A  "  peg  " — John  Collins — Out  of  the  guard-room. 

The  subject  of  Punch  is  such  an  important 
one  that  it  may  be  placed  first  on  the  list  of 
dainty  beverages  which  can  be  made  by  the  art 
or  application  of  man  or  woman. 

First,  let  us  take  the  origin  of  the  word. 
Doctor  Kitchener,  an  acknowledged  authority, 
during  his  lifetime,  on  all  matters  connected 'with 
eating  and  drinking,  has  laid  it  down  that  punch 
is  of  West  Indian  origin,  and  that  the  word  when 
translated,  means  "five"j  because  there  be  five 
ingredients  necessary  in  the  concoction  of  the 
beverage.  But  Doctor  Kitchener  and  his  dis- 
ciples (of  whom  there  be  many)  may  go  to  the 
bottom  of  the  cookery  class  ;  for  although  from 
the  large  connection  which  rum  and  limes  have 


COMPOUND  DRINKS  207 

with  the  mixture,  there  would  seem  to  be  a  West 
Indian  flavour  about  it ;  the  word  "five,"  when 
translated  into  West  Indianese,  is  nothing  like 
"punch."  Having  satisfied  themselves  that  this  is  a 
fact,  modern  authorities  have  tried  the  East  Indies 
for  the  source  of  the  name,  and  have  discovered 
that  panch  in  Hindustani  really  does  mean  "five." 
"  Therefore,"  says  one  modern  authority,  "  it  is 
named  punch  from  the  five  ingredients  which 
compose  it — (i)  spirit,  (2)  acid,  (3)  spice,  (4) 
sugar,  (5)  water."  Another  modern  authority 
calls  punch  "  a  beverage  introduced  into  England 
from  India,  and  so  called  from  being  usually 
made  of  five  (Hindi,  panch)  ingredients — arrack, 
tea,  sugar,  water,  and  lemon  juice."  This  sounds 
far  more  like  an  East  Indian  concoction  than  the 
other  ;  but  at  the  same  time  punch — during  the 
latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  at  all  events 
— was  as  rare  a  drink  in  Hindustan  as  bhang  in 
Great  Britain.  The  panch  theory  is  an  ingeni- 
ous one,  but  there  are  plenty  of  other  combina- 
tions (both  liquid  and  solid)  of  five  to  which  the 
word  punch  is  never  applied  ;  and  about  the  last 
beverage  recommended  by  the  faculty  for  the 
consumption  of  the  sojourner  in  the  land  of  the 
Great  Mogul,  would,  I  should  think,  be  the  en- 
trancing, seductive  one  which  we  Britons  know 
under  the  name  of  punch.  Moreover  it  is  not 
every  punch-concoctor  who  uses  five  ingredients. 
In  the  minds  of  some — youthful  members  of  the 
Stock  Exchange,  for  the  most  part — water  is  an 
altogether  unnecessary  addition  to  the  alcoholic 
mixture  which  is  known  by  the  above  name. 
And  what  manner  of  man  would  add  spice  to 


20?  CAKES  AND  ALE 

that  delight  of  old  Ireland,  "a  jug  o'  punch  ?" 
On  the  other  hand,  in  many  recipes,  there  are 
more  than  five  ingredients  used. 

But  after  all,  the  origin  of  the  name  is  of  but 
secondary  importance,  as  long  as  you  can  make 
punch.  Therefore,  we  will  commence  with  a 
few  recipes  for 

Milk  Punch. 

I.  Three  bottles  of  rum. 

The  most  delicately-flavoured  rum  is  the  "Liquid 
Sunshine  '*  brand. 

One  bottle  of  sherry. 

1 3  lbs  of  loaf-sugar. 

The  rind  of  six  lemons,  and  the  juice  of  twelve. 

One  quart  of  boiling  skimmed  milk. 

Mix  together,  let  the  mixture  stand  eight  days, 
stirring  it  each  day.  Strain  and  bottle,  and  let  it 
stand  three  months.  Then  re-bottle,  and  let  the 
bottles  lie  on  their  sides  in  the  cellar  for  two  years, 
to  mature.  The  flavour  will  be  much  better  than 
if  drunk  after  the  first  period  of  three  months. 

It  is  not  everybody,  however,  who  would  care 
to  wait  two  years,  three  months,  and  eight  days 
for  the  result  of  his  efforts  in  punch-making. 
Therefore  another  recipe  may  be  appended  ;  and 
in  this  one  no  '•  close  time  "  is  laid  down  for  the 
consumption  of  the  mixture. 

z.  Put  into  a  bottle  of  rum  or  brandy  the  thinly- 
pared  rinds  of  three  Seville  oranges,  and  three  lemons. 
Cork  tightly  for  two  days.  Rub  off  on  2  lbs  of  lump 
sugar  the  rinds  of  six  lemons,  squeeze  the  juice  from 
the  whole  of  the  fruit  over  the  2  lbs  of  sugar,  add 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  one  of  boiling  milk, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  and  mix  all  thoroughly 


COMPOUND  DRINKS  209 

well  together  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Pour  in 
the  rum  or  brandy,  stir,  and  strain  till  clear  ;  bottle 
closely. 

There  is  more  than  one  objection  to  this 
recipe,  (i)  Rum,  and  not  brandy  (by  itself), 
should  be  used  for  milk  punch.  (2)  There  is  an 
"  intolerable  amount "  of  water  ;  and  (3)  the  nut- 
meg had  better  remain  in  the  spice-box. 

3.  Cut  off  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  four  lemons 
and  a  Seville  orange,  taking  care  not  to  include  even 
a  fragment  of  the  white  rind,  and  place  in  a  basin. 
Pour  in  one  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  and  let  it  stand, 
covered  over,  twelve  hours.  Then  strain,  and  mix 
with  it  one  pint  of  lemon  juice,  and  two  pints  of 
cold  water,  in  which  one  pound  of  sugar-candy  has 
been  dissolved ;  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  froth,  three  pints  more  of  rum,  one  pint  of 
madeira,  one  pint  of  strong  green  tea,  and  a  large 
wine-glassful  of  maraschino.  Mix  thoroughly,  and 
pour  over  all  one  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Let  the 
punch  stand  a  little  while,  then  strain  through  a 
jelly-bag,  and  either  use  at  once,  or  bottle  off. 

Here  let  it  be  added,  lest  the  precept  be  for- 
gotten, that  the 

Very  best  Materials 

are  absolutely  necessary  for  the  manufacture  of 
punch,  as  of  other  compound  drinks.  In  the 
above  recipe  for  instance  by  "  madeira,"  is  meant 
"Rare  Old  East  Indian,"  and  not  marsala, 
which  wine,  in  French  kitchens,  is  invariably 
used  as  the  equivalent  of  madeira.  There  must 
be  no  inferior  sherry,  Gladstone  claret,  cheap 
champagne,  nor  potato-brandy,  used  for  any  of 


210  CAKES  AND  ALE 

my  recipes,  or  I  will  not  be  responsible  for  the 
flavour  of  the  beverage.  The  following  is  the 
best  idea  of  a  milk  punch  known  to  the  writer : — 

4.  Over  the  yellow  rind  of  four  lemons  and  one 
Seville  orange,  pour  one  pint  of  rum.  Let  it  stand, 
covered  over,  for  twelve  hours.  Strain  and  mix  in 
two  pints  more  of  rum,  one  pint  of  brandy, 
one  pint  of  sherry,  half-a-pint  of  lemon  juice, 
the  expressed  juice  of  a  peeled  pine-apple,  one 
pint  of  green  tea,  one  pound  of  sugar  dissolved  in 
one  quart  of  boiling  water,  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  up,  one  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Mix  well,  let 
it  cool,  and  then  strain  through  a  jelly- bag,  and 
bottle  off. 

This  punch  is  calculated  to  make  the  epicure 
forget  that  he  has  just  been  partaking  of  conger- 
eel  broth  instead  of  clear  turtle. 

Cambridge  Milk  Punch, 

This  a  fairly  good  boys'  beverage,  there  being 
absolutely  "  no  offence  in't."  Put  the  rind  of  half 
a  lemon  (small)  into  one  pint  of  new  milk,  with 
twelve  lumps  of  sugar.  Boil  very  slowly  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the 
iemon  rind,  and  mix  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  which 
has  been  previously  blended  with  one  table-spoonful 
of  cold  milk,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  brandy,  and  four 
of  rum.  Whisk  all  together,  and  when  the  mixture 
is  frothed,  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Oxford  Punch, 

There  is  no  milk  in  this  mixture,  which 
sounds  like  "  for'ard  on  !  "  for  the  undergraduate 
who  for  the  first  time  samples  it. 


COMPOUND  DRINKS  211 

Rub  off  the  yellow  rind  of  three  lemons  with 
half-a-pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  the  result  into  a 
large  jug,  with  the  yellow  rind  of  one  Seville  orange, 
the  juice  of  three  Seville  oranges  and  eight  lemons, 
and  one  pint  of  liquefied  calf's-foot  jelly.  '  Mix 
thoroughly,  then  pour  over  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  and  set  the  jug  on  the  hob  for  thirty  minutes. 
Strain  the  mixtttre  into  a  punch-bowl,  and  when 
cool  acki  one  small  bottle  of  capillaire  (an  infusion 
of  maiclenha-**  ^'rn,  flavoured  with  sugar  and  orange- 
flower  water)  ;  one  pint  of  brandy,  one  pint  of  rum, 
half-a-pint  of  dry  sherry,  and  one  quart  of  orange 
shrub — a  mixture  of  orange-peel,  juice,  sugar,  and 
rum. 

After  drinking  this,  the  young  student  will 
be  in  a  fit  state  to  sally  forth,  with  his  fellows, 
and  "  draw "  a  Dean,  or  drown  an  amateur 
journalist. 

I  have  a  very  old  recipe,  in  MS.,  for 
"  BischofF,"  which  I  take  to  be  the  original 
of  the  better  known  beverage  called  "  Bishop,"  for 
the  manufacture  of  which  I  have  also  directions. 
For  the  sake  of  comparison  I  give  the  two. 

Bischoff. 

Cut  into  four  parts  each,  three  Seville  oranges, 
and  slightly  score  the  rinds  across  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Roast  the  quarters  lightly  before  a  slow  fire, 
and  put  them  into  a  bowl  with  two  bottles  of  claret, 
with  a  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Infuse  this 
mixture  over  a  slow  heat  for  five  or  six  hours,  then 
pass  it  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  sweeten.  It  may  be 
drunk  hot  or  cold,  but  in  any  case  must  never  be 
allowed  to  boil. 


2IZ  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Bishop, 

Two  drachmas  each  of  cloves,  mace,  ginger, 
cinnamon,  and  allspice,  boiled  in  half-a-pint  of 
water  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain.  Put  a  bottle  of 
port  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  the  spiced 
infusion,  and  a  lemon  stuck  with  six  cloves.  Whilst 
this  is  heating  gradually — it  must  not  boil — take 
four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  with  the  lumps  grate 
off  the  outer  rind  of  a  lemon  into  a  punch-bowl. 
Add  the  sugar,  and  juice,  and  the  hot  wine,  etc.  Add 
another  bottle  of  port,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

I  am  prepared  to  lay  a  shade  of  odds  on  the 
"op"  against  the  "off." 

Another  old  recipe  has  been  quoted  in  some 
of  my  earlier  public  efforts,  under  different  names. 
I  have  improved  considerably  upon  the  propor- 
tion of  the  ingredients,  and  now  hand  the 
whole  back,  under  the  name  of 

Halo  Punch. 
With  a  quarter  pound  of  loaf  sugar  rub  off  the 
outer  rind  of  one  lemon  and  two  Seville  oranges.  Put 
rind  and  sugar  into  a  large  punch-bowl  with  the 
juice  and  pulp,  mix  the  sugar  well  with  the  juice 
and  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  till  cold. 
Add  half-a-pint  of  pine-apple  syrup,  one  pint  of 
strong  green  tea,  a  claret-glassful  of  maraschino,  a 
smaller  glassful  of  noyeau,  half-a-pint  of  white  rum, 
one  pint  of  brandy,  and  one  bottle  of  champagne. 
Strain  and  serve,  having,  if  necessary,  added  more 
sugar. 

Note  well  the  proportions.  This  is  the  same 
beverage  which  some  Cleveland  friends  of  mine, 
having   read    the    recipe,   thought  boiling  would 


COMPOUND  DRINKS  213 

improve.      The    result  was — well,  a    consider- 
able amount  of  chaos. 

Glasgow  Punch. 

The  following  is  from  Peter's  Letters  to  his 
Kinsfolk^  and  is  from  the  pen  of  John  Gibson 
Lockhart : — 

The  sugar  being  melted  with  a  little  cold  water, 
the  artist  squeezed  about  a  dozen  lemons  through  a 
wooden  strainer,  and  then  poured  in  water  enough 
almost  to  fill  the  bowl.  In  this  state  the  liquor  goes 
by  the  name  of  sherbet,  and  a  few  of  the  connoisseurs 
in  his  immediate  neighbourhood  were  requested  to 
give  their  opinion  of  it — for  in  the  mixing  of  the 
sherbet  lies,  according  to  the  Glasgow  creed,  at  least 
one-half  of  the  whole  battle.  This  being  approved 
of  by  an  audible  smack  from  the  lips  of  the  umpires, 
the  rum  was  added  to  the  beverage,  I  suppose,  in 
something  about  the  proportion  from  one  to  seven. 

Does  this  mean  one  of  sherbet  and  seven  of 
rum,  or  the  converse  ? 

Last  of  all,  the  maker  cut  a  few  limes,  and  run- 
ning each  section  rapidly  round  the  rim  of  his  bowl, 
squeezed  in  enough  of  this  more  delicate  acid  to 
flavour  the  whole  composition.  In  this  consists  the 
true  tour-de-maitre  of  the  punch-maker. 

Well,  possibly  \  but  it  seems  a  plainish  sort  of 
punch  ;  and  unless  the  rum  be  allowed  to  pre- 
ponderate, most  of  us  would  be  inclined  to  call 
the  mixture  lemonade.  And  I  do  not  believe 
that  since  Glasgow  has  been  a  city  its  citizens 
ever  drank  much  of  that. 

A  few  more  punches,  and  then  an  anecdote. 


tH  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Ale  Punch. 

One  quart  of  mild  ale  in  a  bowl,  add  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brown  sherry,  the  same  quantity  of  old 
brandy,  a  table-spoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  the  peel  and 
juice  of  one  lemon,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  an  ice- 
berg. 

N.B. — Do  not  insert  old  ale,  by  mistake.  And 
for  my  own  part,  I  think  it  a  mistake  to  mix  John 
Barleycorn  with  wine  (except  champagne)  and  spirits. 

Barhadoes  Punch* 

A  table-spoonful  of  raspberry  syrup,  a  ditto  of  sifted 
sugar,  a  wine-glassful  of  water,  double  that  quantity 
of  brandy,  half  a  wine-glassful  of  guava  jelly,  liquid, 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  two  slices  of  orange,  one 
slice  of  pine-apple,  in  a  long  tumbler.  Ice  and  shake 
well  and  drink  through  straws. 

Curafoa  Punch, 

Put  into  a  large  tumbler  one  table-spoonful  of 
sifted  sugar,  one  wine-glassful  of  brandy,  the  same 
quantity  of  water,  half  a  wine-glassful  of  Jamaica 
rum,  a  wine-glassful  of  cura9oa,  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  ;  fill  the  tumbler  with  crushed  ice,  shake, 
and  drink  through  straws. 

Grassot  Punch. 

This  has  nothing  to  do  with  warm  asparagus,  so 
have  no  fear.  It  is  simply  another  big -tumbler 
mixture,  of  one  wine-glassful  of  brandy,  a  liqueur- 
glassful  of  cura9oa,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  one  of  syrup  of  strawberries,  one 
wine-glassful  of  water,  and  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon  ; 
fill  up  the  tumbler  with  crushed  ice,  shake,  and  put 
slices  of  ripe  apricots  atop.     Drink  how  you  like. 


COMPOUND  DRINKS  21  ^ 

Most  of  the  above  are  hot-weather  beverages, 
and  the  great  beauty  of  some  of  them  will  be 
found  in  the  small  quantity  of  water  in  the  mix- 
ture. Here  is  a  punch  which  may  be  drunk  in 
any  weather,  and  either  hot  or  cold. 

Regent  Punch, 

Pour  into  a  bowl  a  wine-glassful  of  champagne, 
the  same  quantities  of  hock,  cura9oa,  rum,  and 
madeira.  Mix  well,  and  add  a  pint  of  boiling  tea, 
sweetened.     Stir  well  and  serve. 

Apropos  of  the  derivation  of  "punch,"  I  was 
unaware  until  quite  recently  that  Messrs.  Brad- 
bury's &  Agnew's  little  paper  had  any  connection 
therewith.  But  I  was  assured  by  one  who  knew 
all  about  it,  that  such  was  the  case. 

"  What  ?  "  I  exclaimed.  "  How  can  the 
London  Charivari  possibly  have  anything  to  do 
with  this  most  seductive  of  beverages  ?  " 

"  My  dear  fellow,"  was  the  reply,  "  have  you 
never  heard  of  Mark  Lemon  ?  " 

I  turned  to  smite  him  hip  and  thigh  ;  but  the 
jester  had  fled. 

And  now  a  word  or  two  as  to  "Toddy." 
One  of  the  authorities  quoted  in  the  punch 
difficulty  declares  that  toddy  is  also  an  Indian 
drink.  So  it  is.  But  that  drink  no  more 
resembles  what  is  known  in  more  civilised  lands 
as  toddy  than  I  resemble  the  late  king  Solomon. 
The  palm-sap  which  the  poor  Indian  distils  into 
arrack  and  occasionally  drinks  in  its  natural  state 
for  breakfast  after  risking  his  neck  in  climbing 
trees  to  get  it,  can  surely  have  no  connection 
with  hot  whisky  and  water  ?  iYet  the  authority 


ai6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

says  so  ;  but  he  had  best  be  careful  ere  he  pro- 
mulgates his  theory  in  the  presence  of  Scotsmen 
and  others  who  possess  special  toddy- glasses. 
This  is  how  I  make 

IVlnsky    Toddy. 

The  Irish  call  this  whisky  punch.  But  do  not 
let  us  wrangle  over  the  name.  Into  an  ordinary- 
sized  tumbler  which  has  been  warmed,  put  one 
average  lump  of  sugar,  a  ring  of  thin  lemon  peel,  and 
a  silver  tea-spoon.  Fill  the  tumbler  one  quarter 
full  of  water  as  near  boiling  point  as  possible.  Cover 
over  until  the  sugar  be  dissolved  and  peel  be  infused. 
Then  add  one  wine-glassful — not  a  small  one — of  the 
best  whisky  you  can  find — the  "  Pollok  "  brand,  and 
the  "R.B."  are  both  excellent.  Then  drink  the 
toddy,  or  punch ;  for  should  you  attempt  to  add  any 
more  water  you  will  incur  the  lifelong  contempt  of 
every  Irishman  or  Scotsman  who  may  be  in  the 
same  room.  If  Irish  whisky  be  used,  of  course  you 
will  select  "John  Jameson." 

'Twixt  ale-flip  and  egg-flip  there  is  not  much 
more  difi^erence  than  'twixt  tweedledum  and  tweedle- 
dee.  Both  are  equally  "more-ish"  on  a  cold  evening ; 
and  no  Christmas  eve  is  complete  without  a  jug  of 
one  or  the  other. 

Ale-flip, 

Pour  into  a  saucepan  three  pints  of  mild  ale,  one 
table-spoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  clove, 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter;  and  bring  the  liquor  to 
a  boil.  Beat  up  in  a  basin  the  white  of  one  egg  and 
the  yolks  of  two,  mixed  with  about  a  wine-glassful  of 
cold  ale.  Mix  all  together  in  the  saucepan,  then 
pour  into  a  jug,  and  thence  into  another  jug,  from  a 
height,  for  some  minutes,  to  froth  the  flip  thoroughly  • 
but  do  not  Jet  it  get  cold. 


COMPOUND  DRINKS  117 

Heat  one  pint  of  ale,  and  pour  into  a  jug.  Add 
two  eggs,  beaten  with  three  ounces  of  sugar,  and 
pour  the  mixture  from  one  jug  to  the  other,  as  in 
the  preceding  recipe.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  and 
ginger  over  the  flip  before  serving. 

Were  I  to  ask  What  is 

J  PegP 

I  should  probably  be  told  that  a  peg  was  some- 
thing to  hang  something  or  somebody  else  on,  or 
that  it  was  something  to  be  driven  through  or  into 
something  else.  And  the  latter  would  be  the  more 
correct  answer,  for  at  the  time  of  my  sojourn  in 
the  great  continent  of  India,  a  peg  meant  a 
large  brandy-and-soda.  At  that  time  whisky 
was  but  little  known  in  Punkahland,  and  was 
only  used  high  up  in  the  Punjaub  during  the 
"cold  weather" — and  it  is  cold  occasionally  in 
that  region,  where  for  some  months  they  are 
enabled  to  make  ice — but  that  is  une  autre  histoire. 
Rum  I  once  tasted  at  Simla,  and  gin  will  be 
dealt  with  presently.  But  since  the  visit  of 
H.R.H.  the  Prince  of  Wales,  a  peg  has  always 
signified  a  w/^/j-fv-and-soda.  And  yet  we  have 
not  heard  of  any  particular  decrease  in  the  death- 
rate.  Despite  what  those  who  have  only  stayed 
a  month  or  two  in  the  country  have  committed 
to  print,  alcohol  is  not  more  fatal  in  a  tropical 
country  than  a  temperate  one.  But  you  must 
not  overdo  your  alcohol.  I  have  seen  a  gay 
young  spark,  a  fine  soldier,  and  over  six  feet  io 
height,  drink  eight  pegs  of  a  morning,  ere  he  got 


2i8  CAKES  AND  ALE 

out  of  bed.  There  was  no  such  thing  as  a  "  split 
soda  " — or  a  split  brandy  either — in  those  days. 
We  buried  him  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal  just  after  a 
cyclone,  on  our  way  home. 

By  the  way,  the  real  meaning  of  "  peg  "  was 
said  to  be  the  peg,  or  nail,  driven  into  the  coffin 
of  the  drinker  every  time  he  partook.  And  the 
coffin  of  many  an  Anglo-Indian  of  my  acquaint- 
ance was  all  nails.     A 

yohn  Collins 

is  simply  a  gin-sling  with  a  little  cura^oa  in  it. 
That  is  to  say,  soda-water,  a  slice  of  lemon, 
cura^oa — and  gin.  But  by  alt^ering  the  pro- 
portions this  can  be  made  a  very  dangerous  potion 
indeed.  The  officers  of  a  certain  regiment — 
which  shall  be  nameless — were  in  the  habit  of 
putting  this  potion  on  tap,  after  dinner  on  a 
guest  night.  It  was  a  point  of  honour  in  those 
evil,  though  poetical,  times,  to  send  no  guest 
empty  away,  and  more  than  one  of  those  enter- 
tained by  this  regiment  used  to  complain  next 
morning  at  breakfast — a  peg,  or  a  swizzle,  and  a 
hot  pickle  sandwich — of  the  escape  of  "  Private 
John  Collins  "  from  the  regimental  guard-room. 
For  towards  dawn  there  would  not  be  much 
soda-water  in  that  potion  —  which  was  usually 
served  hot  at  that  hour. 


CHAPTER   XIX 

CUPS    AND    CORDIALS 


Can  any  mortal  mixture 

Breathe  such  divine,  enchanting  ravishment  ?  ** 


"  The  evil  that  men  do  lives  after  them.  " 

Five  recipes  for  claret  cup — Balaclava  cup — Orgeat — Ascot  cup- 
Stout  and  champagne — Shandy-gafF  for  millionaires  —  Ale 
cup — Cobblers  which  will  stick  to  the  last — Home  Ruler — 
Cherry  brandy — Sloe  gin — Home-made,  if  possible — A  new 
industry — Apricot  brandy  —  Highland  cordial  —  Bitters  — 
Jumping-powder — Orange  brandy — "Mandragora  " — "  Sleep 
rock  thy  brain  !  " 

I  SUPPOSE  there  are  almost  as  many  recipes  for 
claret  cup  as  for  a  cold  in  the  head.  And  of 
the  many  it  is  probable  that  the  greater  propor- 
tion will  produce  a  cup  which  will  neither  cheer 
nor  inebriate  ;  for  the  simple  reason  that  nobody, 
who  was  not  inebriated  already,  would  be  phy- 
sically capable  of  drinking  enough  of  it.     Let  us 

first  of  all  take  the  late  Mr.  Donald's  recipe  for 
0 


120  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Claret  Cup  : 

A.    I  bottle  claret. 

1  wine-glassful  fine  pale  brandy. 
\  do.  chartreuse  yellow. 
J           do.  cura9oa. 

\  do.  maraschino. 

2  bottles  soda  or  seltzer.^ 

I  lemon,  cut  in  thin  slices. 

A  few  sprigs  of  borage  ;  not  much. 

Ice  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Here  is  a  less  expensive  recipe  : 

B,  Put  into  a  bowl  the  rind  of  one  lemon  pared 
very  thin,  add  some  sifted  sugar,  and  pour  over  it  a 
wine-glassful  of  sherry  ;  then  add  a  bottle  of  claret, 
more  sugar  to  taste,  a  sprig  of  verbena,  one  bottle  of 
aerated  water,  and  a  grated  nutmeg  ;  strain  and  ice 
it  well. 

Once  more  let  the  fact  be  emphasised  that  the 
better  the  wine,  spirit,  etc.,  the  better  the  cup. 

Here  is  a  good  cup  for  Ascot,  when  the  sun 
is  shining,  and  you  are  entertaining  the  fair  sex. 

C  Put  in  a  large  bowl  three  bottles  of  claret  (St. 
Estephe  is  the  stamp  of  wine),  a  wine-glassful  (large) 
of  cura^oa,  a  pint  of  dry  sherry,  half  a  pint  of  old 
brandy,  a  large  wine-glassful  of  raspberry  syrup,  three 
oranges  and  one  lemon  cut  into  slices ;  add  a  few 
sprigs  of  borage  and  a  little  cucumber  rind,  two 
bottles  of  seltzer  water,  and  three  bottles  of  Stretton 
water.     Mix  well,  and  sweeten.     Let  it  stand  for  an 

^  An  fejtcellent  aerated  water  and  a  natural  one,  is  obtained 
from  springs  in  the  valley  beneatli  the  Long  Mynd,  near  Church 
Stretton,  in  Shropshire.  In  fact,  the  Stretton  waters  deserve  to 
be  widely  known,  and  are  superior  to  most  of  the  foreign  ones 


CUPS  AND  CORDIALS  zii 

hour,  and  then  strain.    Put  in  a  large  block  of  ice,  and 
a  few  whole  strawberries.     Serve  in  small  tumblers. 

Another  way  and  a  simpler  : 

D.  Pour  into  a  large  jug  one  bottle  of  claret,  add 
two  wine-glassfuls  of  sherry,  and  half  a  glass  of  maras- 
chino. Add  a  few  sliced  nectarines,  or  peaches,  and 
sugar  to  taste  (about  a  table-spoonful  and  a  half). 
Let  it  stand  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  put  in  a 
sprig  of  borage.  Just  before  using  add  one  bottle  of 
Stretton  water,  and  a  large  piece  of  ice. 

My  ideal  claret  cup : 

E.  2  bottles  Pontet  Canet. 
2  wine-glassfuls  old  brandy. 
I  wine-glassful  cura^oa. 

1  pint  bottle  sparkling  moselle, 

2  bottles  aerated  water. 

A  sprig  or  two  of  borage,  and  a  little  lemon  peel. 
Sugar  ad  lib, :  one  cup  will  not  require  much. 
Add  the  moselle  and  popwater  just  before  using  ; 
then  put  in  a  large  block  of  ice. 

Those  who  have  never  tried  can  have  no  idea 
of  the  zest  which  a  small  proportion  of  moselle 
lends  to  a  claret  cup. 

My  earliest  recollection  of  a  cup  dates  from  old 
cricketing  days  beneath  "  Henry's  holy  shade," 
on  "  a  match  day  " — as  poor  old  "  Spanky  "  used 
to  phrase  it ;  a  day  on  which  that  prince  of 
philosophers  and  confectioners  sold  his  wares  for 
cash  only.  Not  that  he  had  anything  to  do 
with  the  compounding  of  the 

Cider  Cup. 
Toast  a  slice  of  bread  and  put  it  at  the  bottom  of 


lit  CAKES  AND  ALE 

a.  large  jug.  Grate  over  the  toast  nearly  half  a  small 
nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  ginger.  Add  a  little  thin 
lemon  rind,  and  six  lumps  of  sugar.  Then  add  two 
wine-glasses  of  sherry,  and  (if  for  adults)  one  of  brandy. 
(If  for  boys  the  brandy  in  the  sherry  will  suffice.) 
Add  also  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  two  bottles  of 
lively  water,  and  (last  of  all)  three  pints  of  cider. 
Mix  well,  pop  in  a  few  sprigs  of  borage,  and  a  block 
or  two  of  ice. 

Remember  once  more  that  the  purer  the 
cider  the  better  will  be  the  cup.  There  is  an 
infinity  of  bad  cider  in  the  market.  There  used 
to  be  a  prejudice  against  the  fermented  juice  of 
the  apple  for  all  who  have  gouty  tendencies  ; 
but  as  a  "  toe-martyr  "  myself,  I  can  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  harmlessness  of  the  "  natural " 
Norfolk  cider  made  at  Attleborough,  in  the  which 
is  no  touch  of  Podagra. 

For  a  good 

Champagne  Cup 

vide  Claret  Cup  J.  Substituting  the  "  sparkling  " 
for  the  "ruby,"  the  ingredients  are  precisely  the 
same. 

A  nice,  harmless  beverage,  suitable  for  a  tennis 
party,  or  to  accompany  the  "  light  refreshments  " 
served  at  a  "  Cinderella  "  dance,  or  at  the  "  break- 
ing-up  "  party  at  a  ladies'  school,  is 

Chablis  Cup. 

Dissolve  four  or  five  lumps  of  sugar  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  put  it  into  a  bowl  with 
a  very  thin  sJ'ce  of  lemon  rind  ;  let  it  stand  for  half- 
an-hour,  then  add  a  bottle  of  chablis,  a  sprig  of  ver- 
bena, a  wine-glassful   of  sherry,  and  half-a-pint  of 


CUPS  AND  CORDIALS  223 

water.  Mix  well,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  for 
a  while,  then  strain,  add  a  bottle  of  seltzer  water,  a 
few  strawberries  or  raspberries,  and  a  block  of  ice. 
Serve  in  small  glasses. 

Balaclava  Cup, 

"  Claret  to  right  of  'em, 
'  Simpkin '  to  left  of  'cm- 
Cup  worth  a  hundred  !  " 

Get  a  large  bowl,  to  represent  the  Valley — which 
only  the  more  rabid  abstainer  would  call  the  "  Valley 
of  Death."  You  will  next  require  a  small  detach- 
ment of  thin  lemon  rind,  about  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
sifted  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  half  a 
cucumber,  cut  into  thin  slices,  with  the  peel  on. 
Let  all  these  ingredients  skirmish  about  within  the 
bowl  ;  then  bring  up  your  heavy  cavalry  in  the  shape 
of  two  bottles  of  Chateau  something,  and  one  of  the 
best  champ:igne  you  have  got.  Last  of  all,  unmask 
your  soda-water  battery ;  two  bottles  will  be  sufficient. 
Ice,  and  serve  in  tumblers. 

Crimean  Cup, 

This  is  a  very  serious  affair.  So  was  the  w^ar. 
The  cup,  however,  leads  to  more  favourable 
results,  and  does  not,  like  the  campaign,  leave  a 
bitter  taste  in  the  mouth.  Here  are  the  in- 
gredients : 

One  quart  of  syrup  of  orgeat  (to  make  this  vide 
next  recipe),  one  pint  and  a  half  of  old  brandy,  half 
a  pint  of  maraschino,  one  pint  of  old  rum,  two  large 
and  one  small  bottles  of  champagne,  three  bottles  of 
Seltzer-water,  half-a-pound  of  sifted  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  five  lemons.  Peel  the  lemons,  and  put  the 
thin  rind  in  a  mortar,  with  the  sugar.     Pound  them 


ZZ4  CAK-ES  AND  ALE 

well,  and  scrape  the  result  with  a  silver  spoon  into 
a  large  bowl.  Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons, 
add  the  seltzer  water,  and  stir  till  the  sugar  is  quite 
dissolved.  Then  add  the  orgeat,  and  whip  the 
mixture  well  with  a  whisk,  so  as  to  whiten  it.  Add 
the  maraschino,  rum,  and  brandy,  and  strain  the  whole 
into  another  bowl.  Just  before  the  cup  is  required, 
put  in  the  champagne,  and  stir  vigorously  with  a 
punch  ladle.  The  champagne  should  be  well  iced, 
as  no  apparent  ice  is  allowable  in  this  mixture. 

Orgeat. 

Blanch  and  pound  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  almonds,  and  thirty  bitter  almonds,  in  one 
table-spoonful  of  water.  Stir  in  by  degrees  two  pints 
of  water  and  three  pints  of  milk.  Strain  the  mixture 
through  a  cloth.  Dissolve  half-a-pound  of  loaf 
sugar  in  one  pint  of  water.  Boil  and  skim  well,  and 
then  mix  with  the  almond  water.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  and  half-a-pint  of 
old  brandy.  Be  careful  to  boil  the  eau  sucre  well,  as 
this  concoction  must  not  be  too  watery. 

Ascot  Cup. 

Odds  can  be  laid  freely  on  this  ;  and  the  host 
should  stay  away  from  the  temptations  of  the 
betting-ring,  on  purpose  to  make  it.  And — 
parenthetically  be  it  observed — the  man  who  has 
no  soul  for  cup-making  should  never  entertain  at 
a  race  meeting.  The  servants  will  have  other 
things  to  attend  to  ;  and  even  if  they  have  not 
it  should  be  remembered  that  a  cup,  or  punch, 
like  a  salad,  should  always,  if  possible,  be  mixed 
by  some  one  who  is  going  to  partake  of  the 
same. 


CUPS  AND  CORDIALS  zi^ 

Dissolve  six  ounces  of  sugar  in  half-a-pint  of 
boiling  water  ;  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  one 
pint  of  old  brandy,  a  wine-glassful  of  cherry  brandy, 
a  wine-glassful  of  maraschino,  half  a  wine-glassful  of 
yellow  chartreuse,  two  bottles  of  champagne.  All 
these  should  be  mixed  in  a  large  silver  bowl  Add 
a  few  sprigs  of  borage,  a  few  slices  of  lemon,  half-a- 
dozen  strawberries,  half-a-dozen  brandied  cherries, 
and  three  bottles  of  seltzer  water.  Put  the  bowl, 
having  first  covered  it  over,  into  the  refrigerator  for 
one  hour,  and  before  serving,  put  a  small  iceberg 
into  the  mixture,  which  should  be  served  in  little 
tumblers. 

How  many  people,  I  wonder,  are  aware  that 

Champagne  and  Guinness^  Stout 

make  one  of  the  best  combinations  possible .? 
You  may  search  the  wide  wide  world  for  a 
cookery  book  which  will  give  this  information  ; 
but  the  mixture  is  both  grateful  and  strengthen- 
ing, and  is,  moreover,  far  to  be  preferred  to  what 
is  known  as 

Rich  Mans  Shandy  Gaf^ 

which  is  a  mixture  of  champagne  and  ale.  The 
old  Irishman  said  that  the  "  blackgyard  "  should 
never  be  placed  atop  of  the  "  gintleman,"  intend- 
ing to  convey  the  advice  that  ale  should  not 
be  placed  on  the  top  of  champagne.  But  the 
"  black  draught "  indicated  just  above  is  well 
worth  attention.  It  should  be  drunk  out  of  a 
pewter  tankard,  and  is  specially  recommended 
as  a  between-the-acts  refresher  for  the  amateur 
actor. 


226  CAKES  AND  ALE 

^le  Cup, 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  a  round  of  hot 
toast  ;  lay  on  it  a  thin  piece  of  the  rind,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  pounded  sugar,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
and  a  sprig  of  balm.  Pour  over  these  one  glass  of 
brandy,  two  glasses  of  sherry,  and  three  pints  of  mild 
ale.  Do  not  allow  the  balm  to  remain  in  the 
mixture  many  minutes. 

One  of  the  daintiest  of  beverages  is  a 

Moselle  Cup, 

Ingredients  :  One  bottle  of  moselle.  One  glass 
of  brandy.  Four  or  five  thin  slices  of  pine-apple. 
The  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  cut  very  thin.  Ice  ;  and 
sugar  ad  lib.  Just  before  using  add  one  bottle  of 
sparkling  water. 

Sherry  Cobbler 

although  a  popular  drink  in  America,  is  but  little 
known  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic.  Place  in  a  soda- 
water  tumbler  two  wine-glassfuls  of  sherry,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  and  two  or  three  slices  of 
orange.  Fill  the  tumbler  with  crushed  ice,  and  shake 
well.     Drink  through  straws. 

Champagne  Cobbler, 

Put  into  a  large  tumbler  one  table -spoonful  of 
sifted  sugar,  with  a  thin  paring  of  lemon  and  orange 
peel  ;  fill  the  tumbler  one-third  full  of  crushed  ice, 
and  the  remainder  with  champagne.  Shake,  and 
ornament  with  a  slice  of  lemon,  and  a  strawberry  or 
two.     Drink  through  straws. 


CUPS  AND  CORDIALS  a»7 

Home  Ruler, 

This  was  a  favourite  drink  at  the  bars  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  during  the  reign  of  the 
Uncrowned  King.  It  was  concocted  of  the  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  little  sugar  added,  then 
a  tumbler  of  hot  milk  taken  gradually  into  the 
mixture,  and  last  of  all  a  large  wine-glassful  of  "  J.  J." 
whisky. 

Cordials, 

In  treating  of  cordials,  it  is  most  advisable  that 
they  be  home  made.  The  bulk  of  the  cherry 
brandy,  ginger  brandy,  etc.,  which  is  sold  over 
the  counter  is  made  with  inferior  brandy  5  and 
frequently  the  operation  of  blending  the  virtue  of 
the  fruit  with  the  spirit  has  been  hurried. 

We  will  commence  with  the  discussion  of  the 
favourite  cordial  of  all, 

Cherry  Brandy, 

This  can  either  be  made  from  Black  Gean 
cherries,  or  Morellas,  but  the  latter  are  better  for 
the  purpose.  Every  pound  of  cherries  will  require 
one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  one  pint 
of  the  best  brandy.  The  cherries,  with  the  sugar 
well  mixed  with  them,  should  be  placed  in  wide- 
mouthed  bottles,  filled  up  with  brandy ;  and  if  the 
fruit  be  previously  pricked,  the  mixture  will  be 
ready  in  a  month.  But  a  better  blend  is  procured 
if  the  cherries  are  untouched,  and  this  principle  holds 
good  with  all  fruit  treated  in  this  way,  and  left 
corked  for  at  least  three  months. 

Sloe  Gin, 

For  years  the  sloe,  which  is  the  fruit  of  the 
black-thorn,  was  used  in  England  for  no  other 


lis  CAKES  AiSfD  ALE 

purpose  than  the  manufacture  of  British  Port. 
But  at  this  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the 
pubHc  have  been,  and  are,  taking  kindly  to  the 
cordial,  which  for  a  long  time  had  been  despised 
as  an  "  auld  wife's  drink."  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
it  is  just  as  tasty,  and  almost  as  luscious  as  cherry 
brandy.  But  since  sloe  gin  became  fashionable, 
it  has  become  almost  impossible  for  dwellers 
within  twenty  or  thirty  miles  of  London  to  make 
the  cordial  at  home.  For  sloes  fetch  something 
like  sixpence  or  sevenpence  a  pound  in  the  market  j 
and  in  consequence  the  hedgerows  are  "  raided  " 
by  the  (otherwise)  unemployed,  the  fruit  being 
usually  picked  before  the  proper  time,  i.e.  when 
the  frost  has  been  on  it.  The  manufacture  of  sloe 
gin  is  as  simple  as  that  of  cherry  brandy. 

All  that  IS  necessary  to  be  done  is  to  allow  i 
lb.  of  sugar  (white)  to  i  lb.  of  sloes.  Half  fill 
a  bottle — which  need  not  necessarily  be  a  wide- 
mouthed  one — with  sugared  fruit,  and  "top  up" 
with  gin.  If  the  sloes  have  been  pricked,  the  liquor 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  or  three  months ;  but 
c^o  not  hurry  it. 

In  a  year's  time  the  gin  will  havfe  eaten  all  the 
goodness  out  of  the  unpricked  fruit,  and  it  is  in 
this  gradual  blending  that  the  secret  (as  before 
observed)  of  making  these  cordials  Hes.  As  a 
rule,  if  you  call  for  sloe  gin  at  a  licensed  house  of 
entertainment,  you  will  get  a  ruby -coloured 
Hquid,  tasting  principally  of  gin — and  not  good 
gin  "at  that"  This  is  because  the  making  has 
been  hurried.  Properly  matured  sloe  gin  should 
be  the  colour  of  full-bodied  port  wine. 


CUPS  AND  CORDIALS  229 

Apricot  Brandy. 

This  is  a  cordial  which  is  but  seldom  met  with 
in  this  country.  To  every  pound  of  fruit  (which 
should  not  be  quite  ripe)  allow  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar.  Put  the  apricots  into  a  preserving-pan, 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  Let  them 
boil  up,  and  then  simmer  gently  until  tender. 
Remove  the  skins.  Clarify  and  boil  the  sugar,  then 
pour  it  over  the  fruit.  Let  it  remain  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  put  the  apricots  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles,  and  fill  them  up  with  syrup  and  brandy, 
half  and  half.  Cork  them  tightly,  with  the  tops  of 
corks  sealed.  This  apricot  brandy  should  be  pre- 
pared in  the  month  of  July,  and  kept  twelve  months 
before  using. 

Highland  Cordial, 

Here  is  another  rare  old  recipe.  Ingredients, 
one  pint  of  white  currants,  stripped  of  their  stalks, 
the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  essence 
of  ginger,  and  one  bottle  of  old  Scotch  whisky. 
Let  the  mixture  stand  for  forty-eight  hours,  and 
then  strain  through  a  hair  sieve.  Add  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  which  will  take  at  least  a  day  to  thoroughly 
dissolve.  Then  bottle  off,  and  cork  well.  It  will 
be  ready  for  use  in  three  months,  but  will  keen 
longer. 

Bitters, 

One  ounce  of  Seville  orange-peel,  half  an  ounce 
of  gentian  root,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cardamoms. 
Husk  the  cardamoms,  and  crush  them  with  the 
gentian  root.  Put  them  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle, 
and  cover  with  brandy  or  whisky.  Let  the  mixture 
remain  for  twelve  days,  then  strain,  and  bottle  off 
for  use,  after  adding  one  ounce  of  lavender  drops. 


Z30  CAKES  AND  ALE 


Ginger  Brandy, 

Bruise  slightly  two  pounds  of  black  currants, 
and  mix  them  with  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  ground 
ginger.  Pour  over  them  one  bottle  and  a  half  of 
best  brandy,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  for  two  days. 
Strain  off  the  liquid,  and  add  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
which  has  been  boiled  to  a  syrup  in  a  little  water. 
Bottle  and  cork  closely. 

^^  Jumping  Powder^ 

comes  in  very  handy,  on  a  raw  morning,  after 
you  have  ridden  a  dozen  miles  or  so  to  a 
lawn  meet.  "  No  breakfast,  thanks,  just  a  wee 
nip,  that's  all."  And  the  ever  ready  butler  hands 
round  the  tray.  If  you  are  wise,  you  will  declare 
on 


Orange  Brandy 


which,  as  a  rule,  is  well  worth  sampling,  in  a 
house  important  enough  to  entertain  hunting 
men.  And  orange  brandy  "goes"  much  better 
than  any  other  liqueur,  or  cordial,  before  noon. 

It  should  be  made  in  the  month  of  March. 
Take  the  thin  rinds  of  six  Seville  oranges,  and  put 
them  into  a  stone  jar,  with  half-a-pint  of  the  strained 
juice,  and  two  quarts  of  good  old  brandy.  Let  it 
remain  three  days,  then  add  one  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  loaf  sugar — broken,  not  pounded — and  stir  till 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Let  the  liquor  stand  a  day, 
strain  it  through  paper  till  quite  clear,  pour  into 
bottles,  and  cork  tightly.  The  longer  it  is  kept  the 
better. 


CUPS  AND  CORDIALS  231 


Mandragora. 

"  Can't  sleep."  Eh  ?  What !  not  after  a  dry 
chapter  on  Hquids  ?  Drink  this,  and  you  will 
not  require  any  rocking. 

Simmer  haif-a-pint  of  old  ale,  and  just  as  it  is 
about  to  boil  pour  it  into  a  tumbler,  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  over  it,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  moist 
sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy.  Good 
night,  Hamlet ! 


CHAPTER    XX 

THE    DAYLIGHT    DRINK 

"  Something  too  much  of  this." 
"  A  nipping  and  an  eager  air." 

Evil  effects  of  dram-drinking — The  "  Gin-crawl " — Abstinence 
in  H.M.  service — City  manners  and  customs — Useless  to 
argue  with  the  soaker — Cocktails — Pet  names  for  drams — 
The  free  lunch  system — Fancy  mixtures — Why  no  Cassis  ? 
— Good  advice  like  water  on  a  duck's  back. 

Whilst  holding  the  same  opinion  as  the  epicure 
who  declared  that  good  eating  required  good  drink- 
ing, there  is  no  question  but  that  there  should 
be  a  limit  to  both.  There  is,  as  Shakespeare 
told  us,  a  tide  in  the  affairs  of  man,  so  why  should 
there  not  be  in  this  particular  affair  ?  Why 
should  it  be  only  ebb  tide  during  the  few  hours 
that  the  man  is  wrapped  in  the  arms  of  a 
Bacchanalian  Morpheus,  either  in  bed  or  in 
custody  ?  The  abuse  of  good  liquor  is  surely  as 
criminal  a  folly  as  the  abstention  therefrom  ;  and 
the  man  who  mixes  his  liquors  injudiciously 
/acks  that  refinement  of  taste  and  understanding 


THE  DAYLIGHT  DRINK  233 

which  is  necessary  for  the  appreciation  of  a  good 
deal  of  this  book,  or  indeed  of  any  other  useful 
volume.  Our  grandfathers  swore  terribly,  and 
drank  deep ;  but  their  fun  did  not  commence 
until  after  dinner.  And  they  drank,  for  the 
most  part,  the  best  of  ale,  and  such  port  wine  as 
is  not  to  be  had  in  these  days  of  free  trade 
(which  is  only  an  euphemism  for  adulteration) 
and  motor  cars.  Although  mine  own  teeth  are, 
periodically,  set  on  edge  by  the  juice  of  the  grape 
consumed  by  an  ancestor  or  two  ;  although  the 
gout  within  me  is  an  heritage  from  the  three-, 
aye !  and  four-,  bottle  era,  I  respect  mine  ancestors, 
in  that  they  knew  not  "  gin  and  bitters."  The 
baleful  habit  of  alcoholising  the  inner  sinner  be- 
tween meal  times,  the  pernicious  habit  of  dram- 
drinking,  or  "nipping,"  from  early  morn  till 
dewy  eve,  was  not  introduced  into  our  cities 
until  the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century 
had  set  in.  "  Brandy-and-soda,"  at  first  only  used 
as  a  "  livener  " — and  a  deadly  livener  it  is — was 
unknown  during  the  early  Victorian  era  ;  and 
the  "  gin-crawl,"  that  interminable  slouch  around 
the  hostelries,  is  a  rank  growth  of  modernity. 

The  "nipping  habit"  came  to  us,  with  other 
pernicious  "notions,"  from  across  the  Atlantic 
Ocean.  It  was  Brother  Jonathan  who  established 
the  bar  system  ;  and  although  for  the  most  part, 
throughout  Great  Britain,  the  alcohol  is  dis- 
pensed by  young  ladies  with  fine  eyes  and  a 
great  deal  of  adventitious  hair,  and  the  "  bar- 
keep,"  with  his  big  watch  chain,  and  his  "  guns," 
placed  within  easy  reach,  for  quick-shooting 
jaloon   practice,  is   unknown  on  this  side,   the 


234  CAKES  AND  ALE 

hurt  of  the  system  (to  employ  an  Americanism) 
"gets  there  just  the  same."  There  is  not  the 
same  amount  of  carousing  in  the  British  army 
as  in  the  days  when  I  was  a  "  gilded  popinjay  " 
(in  the  language  of  Mr.  John  Burns  ;  "a  five- 
and-twopenny  assassin,"  in  the  words  of  some- 
body else).  In  those  days  the  use  of  alcohol,  if 
not  absolutely  encouraged  for  the  use  of  the 
subaltern,  was  winked  at  by  his  superiors,  as 
long  as  the  subalterns  were  not  on  duty,  or  on 
the  line  of  march — and  I  don't  know  so  much 
about  the  line  of  march,  eithe.  But  with  any 
orderly  or  responsible  duty  to  be  done,  the 
beverage  of  heroes  was  not  admired.  "  Now 
mind,"  once  observed  our  revered  colonel,  in  the 
ante-room,  after  dinner,  "  none  of  you  young 
officers  get  seeing  snakes  and  things,  or  otherwise 
rendering  yourselves  unfit  for  service  ;  or  Fll  try 

the  lot  of  you  by  court  martial,  I  will,  by ." 

Here  the  adjutant  let  the  regimental  bible  drop 
with  a  bang.  Tea  is  the  favourite  ante-room 
refreshment  nowadays,  when  the  officer,  young 
or  old,  is  always  either  on  duty,  or  at  school. 
And  the  education  of  the  modern  warrior  is  never 
completed. 

But  the  civilian  —  sing  ho!  the  wicked 
civilian — is  a  reveller,  and  a  winebibber,  for  the 
most  part.  Very  little  business  is  transacted 
except  over  what  is  called  "a  friendly  glass." 
"  I  want  seven  hundred  an'  forty-five  from  you, 
old  chappie,"  says  Reggie  de  Beers  of  the  "House," 
on  settHng  day.  "Right,"  replies  his  friend 
young  "  Berthas  "  :  "  toss  you  double  or  quits. 
Down  with  it  ! "     And  it  would  be  a  cold  day 


THE  DAYLIGHT  DRINK  235 

were  not  a  magnum  or  two  of  "  the  Boy  "  to  be 
opened  over  the  transaction.  The  cheap  eating- 
house  keeper  who  has  spent  his  morning  at  the 
"market,"  cheapening  a  couple  of  pigs,  or  a  dozen 
scraggy  fowls,  will  have  spent  double  the  money 
he  has  saved  in  the  bargain,  in  rum  and  six- 
penny ale,  ere  he  gets  home  again  ;  and  even  a 
wholesale  deal  in  evening  journals,  between  two 
youths  in  the  street,  requires  to  be  "  wetted." 
Very  sad  is  it  not  ?  But,  as  anything  which  I 
— who  am  popularly  supposed  to  be  something 
resembling  a  roysterer,  but  who  am  in  reality  one 
of  the  most  discreet  of  those  who  enjoy  life — can 
write  is  not  likely  to  work  a  change  in  the 
system  which  obtains  amongst  English-speaking 
nations,  perhaps  the  sooner  I  get  on  with  the 
programme  the  better.  Later  on  I  may  revert 
to  the  subject. 

Amongst  daylight  (and  midnight,  for  the 
matter  of  that)  drinks,  the  Cocktail,  that 
fascinating  importation  from  Dollarland,  holds  a 
prominent  place.  This  is  a  concoction  for 
which,  with  American  bars  all  over  the  Metro- 
polis, the  cockney  does  not  really  require  any 
recipe.  But  as  I  trust  to  have  some  country 
readers,  a  few  directions  may  be  appended. 

Brandy  Cocktail, 

One  wine-glassful  of  old  brandy,  six  drops  of 
angostura  bitters,  and  twenty  drops  of  cura^oa,  in 
a  small  tumbler — all  cocktails  should  be  made  in 
a  small  silver  tumbler — shake,  and  pour  into  glass 
tumbler,  then  fill  up  with  crushed  ice.  Put  a  shred 
of  lemon  peel  atop. 


»36  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Champagne  Cocktail. 

One  teaspoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  ten  drops  of 
angostura  bitters,  a  small  slice  of  pine-apple,  and  a 
shred  of  lemon  peel.  Strain  into  glass  tumbler,  add 
crushed  ice,  and  as  much  champagne  as  the  tumbler 
will  hold.     Mix  with  a  spoon. 

Bengal  Cocktail. 

Fill  tumbler  half  full  of  crushed  ice.  Add  thirty- 
drops  of  maraschino,  one  table-spoonful  of  pine-apple 
syrup,  thirty  drops  of  cura9oa,  six  drops  of  angostura 
bitters,  one  wine-glassful  of  old  brandy.  Stir,  and 
put  a  shred  of  lemon  peel  atop. 

Milford  Cocktail. 

(Dedicated  to  Mr.  Jersey.) 
Put  into  a  half-pint  tumbler  a  couple  of  lumps 
of  best  ice,  one  teaspoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  orange  bitters,  half  a  wine-glassful  of 
brandy.  Top  up  with  bottled  cider,  and  mix  with 
a  spoon.  Serve  with  a  strawberry,  and  a  sprig  of 
verbena  atop. 

Manhattan  Cocktail. 

Half  a  wine-glassful  of  vermouth  (Italian),  hair 
a  wine-glassful  of  rye  whisky  (according  to  the 
American  recipe,  though,  personally,  I  prefer  Scotch), 
ten  drops  of  angostura  bitters,  and  six  drops  of 
cura9oa.  Add  ice,  shake  well,  and  strain.  Put  a 
shred  of  lemon  peel  atop. 

Turn  Turn  Cocktail. 

Break  the  yolk  of  a  new-laid  egg  into  a  small 
tumbler,  and  put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  on  it. 
Then  six  drops  of  angostura  bitters,  a  wine-glassful 


THE  DAYLIGHT  DRINK  237 

of  sherry,  and  half  a  wine-glassful  of  brandy.  Shake 
all  well  together,  and  strain.  Dust  a  very  little 
cinnamon  over  the  top. 

Gin  Cocktail. 

Ten  drops  of  angostura  bitters,  one  wine-glassful 
of  gin,  ten  drops  of  cura9oa,  one  shred  of  lemon 
peel.     Fill  up  with  ice,  shake,  and  strain. 

Newport  Cocktail. 

Put  two  lumps  of  ice  and  a  small  s/ke  of  lemon 
into  the  tumbler,  add  six  drops  of  angostura  bitters, 
half  a  wine-glassful  of  noyau,  and  a  wine-glassful  of 
brandy.     Stir  well,  and  serve  with  peel  atop. 

Saratoga  Cocktail. 

This  is  a  more  important  affair,  and  requires  a 
large  tumbler  for  the  initial  stage.  One  teaspoonful 
of  pine-apple  syrup,  ten  drops  of  angostura  bitters, 
one  teaspoonful  of  maraschino,  and  a  wine-glassful  of 
old  brandy.  Nearly  fill  the  tumbler  with  crushed 
ice,  and  shake  well.  Then  place  a  couple  of  straw- 
berries in  a  small  tumbler,  strain  the  liquid  on  them, 
put  in  a  strip  of  lemon  peel,  and  top  up  with 
champagne. 

Whisky  Cocktail. 

Put  into  a  small  tumbler  ten  drops  of  angostura 
bitters,  and  one  wine-glassful  of  Scotch  whisky.  Fill 
the  tumbler  with  crushed  ice,  shake  well,  strain 
into  a  large  wine-glass,  and  place  a  strip  of  peel 
atop. 

But  the  ordinary  British  "  bar-cuddler  " — ^as 
he  is  called  in  the  slang  of  the  day — recks  not  of 
cocktails,  nor,  indeed,  of  Columbian  combinations 


238  CAKES  AND  ALE 

of  any  sort.  He  has  his  own  particular  "  vanity," 
and  frequently  a  pet  name  for  it.  "Gin-and- 
angry-story"  (angostura),  "  slow-and-old  "  (sloe- 
gin  and  Old  Tom),  "pony  o'  Burton,  please 
miss,"  are  a  few  of  the  demands  the  attentive 
listener  may  hear  given.  Orange-gin,  gin-and- 
orange-gin,  gin-and-sherry  (O  bile  where  is  thy 
sting  ?  ),  are  favourite  midday  "  refreshers  "  ;  and 
I  have  heard  a  well-known  barrister  call  for 
"a  split  Worcester"  (a  small  wine-glassful  of 
Worcester  sauce  with  a  split  soda),  without  a 
smile  on  his  expressive  countenance.  "  Small  lem. 
and  a  dash  "  is  a  favourite  summer  beverage,  and, 
withal,  a  harmless  one,  consisting  of  a  small 
bottle  of  lemonade  with  about  an  eighth  of  a 
pint  of  bitter  ale  added  thereto.  In  one  old- 
fashioned  hostelry  I  wot  of — the  same  in  which 
the  chair  of  the  late  Doctor  Samuel  Johnson  is 
on  view — customers  who  require  to  be  stimulated 
with  gin  call  for  "rack,"  and  Irish  whisky  is 
known  by  none  other  name  than  "  Cork."  The 
habitual  "  bar-cuddler "  usually  rubs  his  hands 
violently  together,  as  he  requests  a  little  attention 
from  the  presiding  Hebe  ;  and  affects  a  sort  of 
shocked  surprise  at  the  presence  on  the  scene  of 
any  one  of  his  friends  or  acquaintances.  He  is 
well-up,  too,  in  the  slang  phraseology  of  the  day, 
which  he  will  ride  to  death  on  every  available 
opportunity.  Full  well  do  I  remember  him  in 
the  "  How's  your  poor  feet  ?  "  era  ;  and  it  seems 
but  yesterday  that  he  was  informing  the  company 
in  assertive  tones,  "  Now  we  shant  be  long  !  " 
The  "  free  lunch  "  idea  of  the  Yankees  is  only 
thoroughly  carried  out  in  the  "  North  Countree^" 


THE  DAYLIGHT  DRINK  139 

where,  at  the  best  hotels,  there  is  often  a  great 
bowl  of  soup,  or  a  dish  of  jugged  hare,  or  of 
Irish  stew,  pro  bono  publico;  and  by  publico  is 
implied  the  hotel  directorate  as  well  as  the 
customers.  In  London,  however,  the  free  lunch 
seldom  soars  above  salted  almonds,  coffee  beans, 
cloves,  with  biscuits  and  American  cheese.  But 
at  most  refreshment-houses  is  to  be  obtained  for 
cash  some  sort  of  a  restorative  sandwich,  or  bonne 
bouche^  in  the  which  anchovies  and  hard-boiled 
eggs  play  leading  parts ;  and  amongst  other  re- 
storative food,  I  have  noticed  that  parallelograms 
of  cold  Welsh  rarebit  are  exceedingly  popular 
amongst  wine-travellers  and  advertisement-agents. 
The  genius  who  propounded  the  statement  that 
"there  is  nothing  Hke  leather"  could  surely 
never  have  sampled  a  cold  Welsh  rarebit ! 

Bosom  Caresser, 

Put  into  a  small  tumbler  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry, 
half  a  wine-glassful  of  old  brandy,  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  two  grains  of  cayenne 
pepper  ;  add  crushed  ice,  shake  well,  strain,  and 
dust  over  with  nutmeg  and  cinnamon. 

A  Nicobine^ 

(or  "  Knickerbein  "  as  I  have  seen  it  spelt),  used 
to  be  a  favourite  "short"  drink  in  Malta,  and 
consisted  of  the  yolk  of  an  egg  (intact)  in  a 
wine-glass  with  layers  of  cura^oa,  maraschino, 
and  green  chartreuse  ;  the  liquors  not  allowed  to 
mix  with  one  another.  The  "knickerbein" 
recipe   differs  materially  from  this,  as  brandy  is 


240  CAKES  ANU  ALE 

substituted  for  chartreuse,  and  the  ingredients 
are  shaken  up  and  strained,  the  white  of  the  egg 
being  whisked  and  placed  atop.  But,  either  way, 
you  will  get  a  good,  bile -provoking  mixture. 
In  the 

West  Indies^ 

if  you  thirst  for  a  rum  and  milk,  cocoa-nut  milk 
is  the  "only  wear";  and  a  very  delicious  potion 
it  is.  A  favourite  mixture  in  Jamaica  was  the 
juice  of  a  "  star  "  apple,  the  juice  of  an  orange, 
a  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  and  a  dust  of  nutmeg. 
I  never  heard  a  name  given  to  this. 

BulPs  Milk. 

This  is  a  comforting  drink  for  summer  or 
winter.  During  the  latter  season,  instead  of 
adding  ice,  the  mixture  may  be  heated. 

One  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  a  large  tumbler,  half- 
a-pint  of  milk,  half  a  wine-glassful  of  rum,  a  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy  ;  add  ice,  shake  well,  strain,  and 
powder  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

Fairy  Kiss. 

Put  into  a  small  tumbler  the  juice  of  a  quarter  of 
lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  wine-glassful  each  of  the  follow- 
ing : — Vanilla  syrup,  cura^oa,  yellow  chartreuse, 
brandy.     Add  ice,  shake,  and  strain. 

Flash  of  Lightning, 

One-third  of  a  wine-glassful  each  of  the  following, 
in  a  small  tumbler  : — Raspberry  syrup,  cura9oa, 
brandy,  and  three  drops  of  angostura  bitters.  Add 
ice,  shake  and  strain. 


THE  Daylight  brink:  241 

Flip  Flap, 

One  wine-glassful  of  milk  in  a  small  tumbler,  one 
well-beaten  egg,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  wine-glassful  of 
port.  Ice,  shake,  strain,  and  sprinkle  with  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg. 

Maiden's  Blush, 

Half  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry  in  a  small  tumbler,  a 
quarter  of  a  wine-glassful  of  strawberry  syrup,  and  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Add  ice,  and  a  little  raspberry 
syrup.     Shake,  and  drink  through  straws. 

J  thole  Brose 

is  compounded,  according  to  a  favourite  author, 
in  the  following  manner  : — 

"  Upon  virgin  honeycombs  you  pour,  according 
to  their  amount,  the  oldest  French  brandy  and  the 
most  indisputable  Scotch  whisky  in  equal  pro- 
portions. You  allow  this  goodly  mixture  to  stand 
for  days  in  a  large  pipkin  in  a  cool  place,  and  it  is 
then  strained  and  ready  for  drinking.  Epicures 
drop  into  the  jug,  by  way  of  imparting  artistic 
finish,  a  small  fragment  of  the  honeycomb  itself. 
This  I  deprecate." 

Tiger's  Milk. 

Small  tumbler.  Half  a  wine-glassful  each  of  cider 
and  Irish  whisky,  a  wine-glassful  of  peach  brandy. 
Beat  up  separately  the  white  of  an  egg  with  a  little 
sugar,  and  add  this.  Fill  up  the  tumbler  with  ice  ; 
shake,  and  strain.  Add  half  a  tumbler  of  milk,  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  atop. 

Wyndham, 
Large  tumbler.     Equal  quantities  (a  liqueur  glass 


24-2  CAKES  AND  ALE 

of  each)  of  maraschino,  cura9oa,  brandy,  with  a  little 
orange  peel,  and  sugar.  Add  a  glass  of  champagne, 
and  a  small  bottle  of  seltzer  water.  Ice,  and  mix 
well  together.     Stir  with  a  spoon. 

Happy  Eliza. 

Put  into  a  skillet  twelve  fresh  dried  figs  cut  open, 
four  apples  cut  into  slices  without  peeling,  and  half 
a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  broken  small.  Add  two  quarts 
of  water,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  strain  through  a 
— where's  the  brandy  ?  Stop  !  I've  turned  over 
two  leaves,  and  got  amongst  the  Temperance  Drinks. 
Rein  back  ! 

Mint  Julep, 

This,  properly  made,  is  the  most  delicious  of  all 
American  beverages.  It  is  mixed  in  a  large  tumbler, 
in  the  which  are  placed,  first  of  all,  two  and  a  half 
table  -  spoonfuls  of  water,  one  table  -  spoonful  of 
sugar  (crushed),  and  two  or  three  sprigs  of  mint, 
which  should  be  pressed,  with  a  spoon  or  crusher, 
into  the  sugar  and  water  to  extract  the  flavour. 
Add  two  wine-glassfuls  of  old  brandy  —  now  we 
shan*t  be  long — fill  up  with  powdered  ice,  shake 
well,  get  the  mint  to  the  top  of  the  tumbler,  stalks 
down,  and  put  a  few  strawberries  and  slices  of 
orange  atop.  Shake  in  a  little  rum,  last  of  all, 
and  drink  through  straws. 

Possets. 

(An  eighteenth-century  recipe.) 

"Take  three  gills  of  sweet  cream,  a  grated  rind 
of  lemon,  and  juice  thereof,  three-quarters  of  a  pint 
of  sack  or  Rhenish  wine.  Sweeten  to  your  taste 
with  loaf  sugar,  then  beat  in  a  bowl  with  a  whisk 


THE  DAYLIGHT  DRINK  243 

for  one  hour,  and  fill  your  glasses  and  drink  to  the 
king." 

We  are  tolerably  loyal  in  this  our  time  j  still 
it  is  problematical  if  there  exist  man  or  woman 
in  Merry  England,  in  our  day  who  would  whisk 
a  mixture  for  sixty  minutes  by  the  clock,  even 
with  the  prospect  of  drinking  to  the  reigning 
monarch. 

Brandy  Sour, 

This  is  simplicity  itself.  A  tea-spoonful  of  sifted 
sugar  in  a  small  tumbler,  a  little  lemon  rind  and 
juice,  one  wine-glassful  of  brandy.  Fill  nearly  up 
with  crushed  ice,  shake  and  strain.  Whisky  Sour  is 
merely  Scotch  whisky  treated  in  the  same  kind, 
open-handed  manner,  with  the  addition  of  a  few 
drops  of  raspberry  syrup. 

Blue  Blazer. 

Don't  be  frightened ;  there  is  absolutely  no 
danger.  Put  into  a  silver  mug,  or  jug,  previously 
heated,  two  wine-glassfuls  of  overproof  (or  proof) 
Scotch  whisky,  and  one  wine-glassful  oi  boiling  water. 
Set  the  liquor  on  fire,  and  pass  the  blazing  liquor 
into  another  mug,  also  well  heated.  Pass  to  and 
fro,  and  serve  in  a  tumbler,  with  a  lump  of  sugar 
and  a  little  thin  lemon  peel.  Be  very  particular  not 
to  drop  any  of  the  blazer  on  the  cat,  or  the  hearth- 
rug, or  the  youngest  child.  This  drink  would,  T 
should  think,  have  satisfied  the  aspirations  of  Mr. 
Daniel  2^ilp. 

One  of  the  most  wholesome  of  all  "re- 
freshers," is  a  simple  liquor,  distilled  from  black- 
currants, and  known  to  our  lively  neighbours 
as 


244  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Cassts, 

This  syrup  can  be  obtained  in  the  humblest 
cabaret  in  France  ;  but  we  have  to  thank  the 
eccentric  and  illogical  ways  of  our  Customs 
Department  for  its  absence  from  most  of  our  own 
wine  lists.  The  duty  is  so  prohibitive — being 
half  as  much  again  as  that  levied  on  Frenr,h 
brandy —  that  it  would  pay  nobody  but  said 
Customs  Department  to  import  it  into  England  ; 
and  yet  the  amount  of  alcohol  contained  in  cassis 
is  infinitesimal.  Strange  to  say  nobody  has  ever 
started  a  cassis  still  on  this  side.  One  would 
imagine  that  the  process  would  be  simplicity 
itself  J  as  the  liquor  is  nothing  but  cold  black- 
currant tea,  with  a  suspicion  of  alcohol  in  it. 

Sligo  Slop, 

This  is  an  Irish  delight.  The  juice  of  ten 
lemons,  strained,  ten  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar, 
one  quart  of  John  Jameson's  oldest  and  best  whisky, 
and  two  port  wine-glassfuls  of  cura9oa,  all  mixed  to- 
gether. Let  the  mixture  stand  for  a  day  or  two, 
and  then  bottle.  This  should  be  drunk  neat,  in 
liqueur -glasses,  and  is  said  to  be  most  effectual 
"jumping-powder."  It  certainly  reads  conducive  to 
timber-topping. 

Take  it  altogether  the  daylight  drink  is  a 
mistake.  It  is  simply  ruin  to  appetite  j  it  is 
more  expensive  than  those  who  indulge  therein 
are  aware  of  at  the  time.  It  ruins  the  nerves, 
sooner  or  later  ;  it  is  not  conducive  to  business, 
unless  for  those  whose  heads  are  especially  hard  ; 
and  it  spoils  the  palate  for  the  good  wine  which 


THE  DAYLIGHT  DRINK  245 

is  poured  forth  later  on.     The  precept  cannot  be 
too  widely  laid  down,  too  fully  known  : 

Do  not  drink  between  Meals  ! 

Better,  far  better  the  three-bottle-trick  of  our 
ancestors,  than  the  "  gin-crawl "  of  to-day. 


CHAPTER    XXI 

GASTRONOMY    IN    FICTION    AND    DRAMA 

"  Let  me  not  burst  in  ignorance.  " 
"  A  chiel's  amang  ye,  taking  notes." 

Thomas  Carlyle — Thackeray — Harrison  Ains worth — Sir  Walter 
Scott— Miss  Brad<Jon— Marie  Corelli— F.  C.  Philips— Black- 
more — Charles  Dickens — Pickiuick  reeking  with  alcohol 
— Brandy  and  oysters — Little  Dorrit — Great  Expectations — 
Micawber  as  a  punch-maker — David  Cv^perjield — "  Prac- 
ticable" food  on  the  stage — "Johnny"  Toole's  story  of  Tiny 
Tim  and  the  goose. 

Considering  the  number  of  books  which  have 
been  published  during  the  nineteenth  century,  it  is 
astonishing  how  few  of  them  deal  with  eating 
and  drinking.  We  read  of  a  banquet  or  two, 
certainly,  in  the  works  of  the  divine  William, 
but  no  particulars  as  to  the  cuisine  are  entered 
into.  "  Cold  Banquo  "  hardly  sounds  appetising. 
Thomas  Carlyle  was  a  notorious  dyspeptic,  so  it 
is  no  cause  for  wonderment  that  he  did  not 
bequeath  to  posterity  the  recipes  for  a  dainty 
dish  or  two,  or  a  good  Derby  Day  "  Cup." 
Thackeray  understood  but  little  about  cookery. 


GASTRONOMY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  247 

nor  was  Whyte  Melville  much  better  versed  in 
the  mysteries  of  the  kitchen.  Harrison  Ains- 
w^orth  touched  lightly  on  gastronomy  occa- 
sionally, w^hilst  Charles  Lamb,  Sydney  Smith, 
and  others  (blessings  light  on  the  man  who  in- 
vented the  phrase  "and  others")  delighted 
therein.  Miss  Braddon  has  slurred  it  over 
hitherto,  and  Marie  Corelli  scorns  all  mention 
of  any  refreshment  but  absinthe — a  weird  Hquid 
which  is  altogether  absent  from  these  pages.  In 
the  lighter  novels  of  Mr.  F.  C.  Philips,  there  is 
but  little  mention  of  solid  food  except  devilled 
caviare,  which  s6unds  nasty  ;  but  most  of  Mr. 
Philips's  men,  and  all  his  women,  drink  to  excess — 
principally  champagne,  brandy,  and  green  char- 
treuse. And  one  of  his  heroines  is  a  firm 
behever  in  the  merits  of  cognac  as  a  "  settler  "  of 
champagne. 

According  to  Mr.  R.  D.  Blackmore,  the  natives 
of  Exmoor  did  themselves  particularly  well,  in  the 
seventeenth  century.  In  that  most  delightful 
romance  Lorna  Doone  is  a  description  of  a  meal 
set  before  Tom  Faggus,  the  celebrated  highway- 
man, by  the  Ridd  family,  at  Plover's  Barrows  : — 

"A  few  oysters  first,  and  then  dried  salmon,  and 
then  ham  and  eggs,  done  in  small  curled  rashers, 
and  then  a  few  collops  of  venison  toasted,  and  next 
a  little  cold  roast  pig,  and  a  woodcock  on  toast  to 
finish  with." 

This  meal  was  washed  down  with  home- 
brewed ale,  followed  by  Schiedam  and  hot  water. 

One  man,  and  one  man  alone,  who  has  left 
his  name  printed  deep  on  the  sands  of  time 
as  a  writer,  thoroug;hly  revelled  in  the  mighty 


248  CAKES  AND  ALE 

subjects  of  eating  and  drinking.  Need  his  name 
be  mentioned  ?  What  is,  after  all,  the  great 
secret  of  the  popularity  of 

Charles  Dickens 

as  a  novelist  ?  His  broad,  generous  views  on  the 
subject  of  meals,  as  expressed  through  the 
mouths  of  most  of  the  characters  in  his  works  ; 
as  also  the  homely  nature  of  such  meals,  and 
the  good  and  great  deeds  to  which  they  led. 
I  once  laid  myself  out  to  count  the  number  of 
times  that  alcoholic  refreshment  is  mentioned 
in  some  of  the  principal  works  of  the  great 
author  ;  and  the  record,  for  Pickwick  alone,  was 
sufficient  to  sweep  from  the  surface  of  the  earth, 
with  its  fiery  breath,  the  entire  Blue  Ribbon 
Army.  Mr.  Pickwick  was  what  would  be 
called  nowadays  a  "  moderate  drinker."  That  is 
to  say,  he  seldom  neglected  an  "excuse  for  a 
lotion,"  nor  did  he  despise  the  "  daylight  drink." 
But  we  only  read  of  his  being  overcome  by  his 
potations  on  two  occasions  ;  after  the  cricket 
dinner  at  Muggleton,  and  after  the  shooting 
luncheon  on  Captain  Boldwig's  ground.  And 
upon  the  latter  occasion  I  am  convinced  that  the 
hot  sun  had  far  more  to  do  with  his  temporary 
obfuscation  than  the  cold  punch.  Bob  Sawyer 
and  Ben  Allen  were  by  no  means  exaggerated 
types  of  the  medical  students  of  the  time.  The 
"  deputy  sawbones  "  of  to-day  writes  pamphlets, 
drinks  coffee,  and  pays  his  landlady  every 
Saturday.  And  it  was  a  happy  touch  of  Dickens 
to  make  Sawyer  and  Allen  eat  oysters,  and  wash 
them  down  with  neat  brandy,  before  breakfast. 


GASTRONOMY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  249 

I  have  known  medical  students,  aye  !  and  full- 
blown surgeons  too,  who  would  commit  equally 
daring  acts ;  although  I  doubt  much  if  they 
would  have  shone  at  the  breakfast-table  after- 
WLrds,  or  on  the  ice  later  in  the  day.  For  the 
effect  exercised  by  brandy  on  oysters  is  pretty 
well  known  to  science. 

Breathes  there  a  man  with  soul  so  dead  as  not 
to  appreciate  the  delights  of  Dingley  Dell  ?  Free 
trade  and  other  horrors  have  combined  to  crush 
the  British  yeoman  of  to-day  ;  but  we  none  the 
less  delight  to  read  of  him  as  he  was,  and  I  do 
not  know  a  better  cure  for  an  attack  of "  blue 
devils  " — or  should  it  be  "  black  dog  ?  " — than  a 
good  dose  of  Dingley  Dell.  The  wholesale 
manner  in  which  Mr.  Wardle  takes  possession 
of  the  Pickwickians — only  one  of  whom  he 
knows  intimately  —  for  purposes  of  entertain- 
ment, is  especially  delightful,  and  worthy  of 
imitation  ;  and  I  can  only  regret  the  absence 
of  a  good,  cunningly  -  mixed  "  cup "  at  the 
picnic  after  the  Chatham  review.  The  wine 
drunk  at  this  picnic  would  seem  to  have  been 
sherry  ;  as  there  was  not  such  a  glut  of  "  the 
sparkling"  in  those  good  old  times.  And  the 
prompt  way  in  which  "  Emma'*  is  commanded 
to  "  bring  out  the  cherry  brandy,"  before  his 
guests  have  been  two  minutes  in  the  house, 
bespeaks  the  character  of  dear  old  Wardle  in 
once.  "  The  Leathern  Bottle,"  a  charming  old- 
world  hostelry  in  that  picturesque  country  lying 
between  Rochester  and  Cobham,  would  hardly 
have  been  in  existence  now,  let  alone  doing  a 
roaring  trade,  but  for  the  publication   of  Pick^ 


»50  CAKES  AND  ALE 

wick;  and  the  notion  of  the  obese  Tupman 
solacing  himself  for  blighted  hopes  and  taking 
his  leave  of  the  world  on  a  diet  of  roast  fowl 
bacon,  ale,  etc.,  is  unique.  The  bill-of-fare  at 
the  aforementioned  shooting  luncheon  might 
not,  perhaps,  satisfy  the  aspirations  of  Sir  Mota 
Kerr,  or  some  other  nouveau  r'lche  of  to-day,  but 
there  was  plenty  to  eat  and  drink.  Here  is  the 
list,  in  Mr.  Samuel  Weller's  own  words  : 

"  Weal  pie,  tongue  :  a  wery  good  thing  when 
it  ain't  a  woman's  :  bread,  knuckle  o'  ham,  reg'lar 
picter,  cold  beef  in  slices  ;  wery  good.  What's 
in  them  stone  jars,  young  touch-and-go  ?  " 

"Beer  in  this  one,"  replied  the  boy,  taking 
from  his  shoulder  a  couple  of  large  stone  bottles, 
fastened  together  by  a  leathern  strap,  "cold  punch 
in  t'other." 

"And  a  wery  good  notion  of  a  lunch  it  is, 
take  it  altogether,"  said  Mr.  Weller. 

Possibly  ;  though  cold  beef  in  slices  would  be 
apt  to  get  rather  dryer  than  was  desirable  on  a 
warm  day.  And  milk  punch  hardly  seems  the 
sort  of  tipple  to  encourage  accuracy  of  aim. 

Mrs.  Bardell's  notion  of  a  nice  little  supper 
we  gather  from  the  same  immortal  work,  was  "a 
couple  of  sets  of  pettitoes  and  some  toasted  cheese." 
The  pettitoes  were  presumably  simmered  in  milk, 
and  the  cheese  was,  undoubtedly,  "  browning  away 
most  delightfully  in  a  little  Dutch  oven  in  front  of 
the  fire."  Most  of  us  will  smack  our  lips  after  this 
description  ;  though  details  are  lacking  as  to  the 
contents  of  the  "  black  bottle  "  which  was  pro- 
duced from  "a  small  closet."  But  amongst  students 
of  Pickwick^  "  Old  Tom  "  is  a  hot  favourite. 


GASTRONOxVIY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  251 

The  Deputy  Shepherd's  particular  "vanity" 
appears  to  have  been  buttered  toast  and  reeking 
hot  pine-apple  rum  and  water,  v^^hich  sounds  like 
swimming-in-the-head  i  and  going  straight 
through  the  book,  we  next  pause  at  the  de- 
scription of  the  supper  given  by  the  medical 
students,  at  their  lodgings  in  the  Borough,  to 
the  Pickwickians. 

"  The  man  to  whom  the  order  for  the  oysters 
had  been  sent  had  not  been  told  to  open  them  ; 
it  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  open  an  oyster  with 
a  limp  knife  or  a  two-pronged  fork  ;  and  very 
little  was  done  in  this  way.  Very  little  of  the 
beef  was  done  either;  and  the  ham  (which  was 
from  the  German-sausage  shop  round  the  corner) 
was  in  a  similar  predicament.  However,  there 
was  plenty  of  porter  in  a  tin  can  ;  and  the  cheese 
went  a  great  way,  for  it  was  very  strong." 

Probably  the  oysters  had  not  been  paid  for  in 
advance,  and  the  man  imagined  that  they  would 
be  returned  upon  his  hands  none  the  worse.  For 
at  that  time — as  has  been  remarked  before,  in 
this  volume  on  gastronomy — the  knowledge  that 
an  oyster  baked  in  his  own  shells,  in  the  middle 
of  a  clear  fire,  is  an  appetising  dish,  does  not 
appear  to  have  been  universal. 

It  is  questionable  if  a  supper  consisting  of  a 
boiled  leg  of  mutton  "with  the  usual  trimmings" 
would  have  satisfied  the  taste  of  the  "  gentleman's 
gentleman"  of  to-day,  who  is  a  hypercritic,  if 
anything  ;  but  let  that  supper  be  taken  as  read. 
Also  let  it  be  noted  that  the  appetite  of  the 
redoubtable  Pickwick  never  seems  to  have  failed 

him,  even  in  the  sponging-house — five  to  one 

s 


ZS2  CAKES  AND  ALE 

can  be  betted  that  those  chops  werc/ried — or  in 
the  Fleet  Prison  itself.  And  mention  of  thrs 
establishment  recalls  the  extravagant  folly  of  Job 
Trotter  (who  of  all  men  ought  to  have  know^n 
better)  in  purchasing  "a  small  piece  of  raw^  loin 
of  mutton  "  for  the  refection  of  himself  and  ruined 
master;  v^^hen  for  the  same  money  he  could  surely 
have  obtained  a  sufficiency  of  bullock's  cheek  or 
liver,  potatoes,  and  onions,  to  provide  dinner  for 
three  days.  Fide  the  "  Kent  Road  Cookery,"  in 
one  of  my  earlier  chapters.  The  description  of 
the  journeys  from  Bristol  to  Birmingham,  and 
back  to  London,  absolutely  reeks  v^^ith  food  and 
alcohol ;  and  it  has  always  smacked  of  the  mys- 
terious to  myself  how  Sam  Weller,  a  pure  Cock- 
ney, could  have  known  so  much  of  the  capacities 
of  the  various  hostelries  on  the  road.  Evidently 
his  knowledge  of  other  places  besides  London  was 
"  peculiar."  Last  scene  of  all  in  Pickwick  requir- 
ing mention  here,  is  the  refection  given  to  Mr. 
Solomon  Pell  in  honour  of  the  proving  of  the 
late  Dame  Weller's  last  will  and  testament. 
"  Porter,  cold  beef,  and  oysters,"  were  some  of  the 
incidents  of  that  meal,  and  we  read  that  "  the 
coachman  with  the  hoarse  voice  took  an  imperial 
pint  of  vinegar  with  his  oysters,  without  betray- 
ing the  least  emotion." 

It  is  also  set  down  that  brandy  and  water,  as 
usual  in  this  history,  followed  the  oysters  ;  but 
we  are  not  told  if  any  of  those  coachmen  ever 
handled  the  ribbons  again,  or  if  Mr.  Solomon 
Pell  spent  his  declining  days  in  the  infirmary. 

In  fact,  there  are  not  many  chapters  in  Charles 
Dickens'  works  in  which  the  knife  and  fork  do 


GASTRONOMY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  253 

not  play  prominent  parts.  The  food  is,  for  the 
most  part,  simple  and  homely  ;  the  seed  sown  in 
England  by  the  fairy  Jla  had  hardly  begun 
to  germinate  at  the  time  the  novels  were  written. 
Still  there  is,  naturally,  a  suspicion  of  Jla  at  the 
very  commencement  of  Little  Dorrit^  the  scene 
being  laid  in  the  Marseilles  prison,  where  Monsieur 
Rigaud  feasts  off  Lyons  sausage,  veal  in  savoury 
jelly,  white  bread,  strachino  cheese,  and  good 
claret,  the  while  his  humble  companion,  Signor 
John  Baptist,  has  to  content  himself  with  stale 
bread,  through  reverses  at  gambling  with  his 
fellow  prisoner.  After  that,  there  is  no  mention 
of  a  "  square  meal "  until  we  get  to  Mr.  Casby's, 
the  "  Patriarch."  "  Everything  about  the  patri- 
archal household,"  we  are  told,  "  promoted  quiet 
digestion "  j  and  the  dinner  mentioned  began 
with  "  some  soup,  some  fried  soles,  a  butter-boat 
of  shrimp  sauce,  and  a  dish  of  potatoes."  Rare 
old  Casby  !  "  Mutton,  a  steak,  and  an  apple 
pie" — and  presumably  cheese — furnished  the 
more  solid  portion  of  the  banquet,  which  appears 
to  have  been  washed  down  with  porter  and  sherry 
wine,  and  enlivened  by  the  inconsequent  remarks 
of  "Mr.  F.'s  Aunt." 

In  Great  Expectations  occurs  the  celebrated 
banquet  at  the  Chateau  Gargery  on  Christmas 
Day,  consisting  of  a  leg  of  pickled  pork  and 
greens,  a  pair  of  roast  stuffed  fowls,  a  handsome 
mince  pie,  and  a  plum-pudding.  The  absence 
of  the  savoury  pork- pie,  and  the  presence  of 
tar- water  in  the  brandy  are  incidents  at  that 
banquet  familiar  enough  to  Sir  Frank  Lockwood, 
Q.C.,  M.P.,  and  other  close  students  of  Dickens, 


254  CAKES  AND  ALE 

whose  favourite  dinner-dish  would  appear  to  have 
been  a  fowl,  stuffed  or  otherwise,  roast  or  boiled. 

In  Oliver  Twist  we  get  casual  mention  of 
oysters,  sheep's  heads,  and  a  rabbit  pie,  with 
plenty  of  alcohol ;  but  the  bill  of  fare,  on  the 
whole,  is  not  an  appetising  one.  The  meat  and 
drink  at  the  Maypole  Hotel,  in  Barnahy  Rudge^ 
would  appear  to  have  been  deservedly  popular ; 
and  the  description  of  Gabriel  Varden's  breakfast 
is  calculated  to  bring  water  to  the  most  callous 
mouth  : 

"Over  and  above  the  ordinary  tea  equipage 
the  board  creaked  beneath  the  weight  of  a  jolly 
round  of  beef,  a  ham  of  the  first  magnitude,  and 
sundry  towers  of  buttered  Yorkshire  cake,  piled 
slice  upon  slice  in  most  alluring  order.  There 
was  also  a  goodly  jug  of  well- browned  clay, 
fashioned  into  the  form  of  an  old  gentleman  not 
by  any  means  unlike  the  locksmith,  atop  of  whose 
bald  head  was  a  fine  white  froth  answering  to  his 
wig,  indicative,  beyond  dispute,  of  sparkling  home 
brewed  ale.  But  better  than  fair  home-brewed, 
or  Yorkshire  cake,  or  ham,  or  beef,  or  anything  to 
eat  or  drink  that  earth  or  air  or  water  can  supply, 
there  sat,  presiding  over  all,  the  locksmith's  rosy 
daughter,  before  whose  dark  eyes  even  beef  grew 
insignificant,  and  malt  became  as  nothing." 

Ah-h-h  ! 

There  is  not  much  eating  in  A  Tale  of  Two 
Cities;  but  an  intolerable  amount  of  assorted 
"sack."  In  Sketches  by  Bo%  we  learn  that 
Dickens  had  no  great  opinion  of  public  dinners, 
and  that  oysters  were,  at  that  period,  occasionally 
opened  by  the  fair  sex.     There  is  a  nice  flavour 


GASTRONOMY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  255 

of  fowl  and  old  Madeira  about  Do?nbey  and  Son, 
and  the  description  of  the  dinner  at  Doctor 
Blimber's  establishment  for  young  gentlemen  is 
worth  requoting  : 

"There  was  some  nice  soup  ;  also  roast  meat, 
boiled  meat,  vegetables,  pie,  and  cheese."  [  Cheese 
at  a  small  boys'  school  !]  "  Every  young  gentle- 
man had  a  massive  silver  fork  and  a  napkin  ;  and 
all  the  arrangements  were  stately  and  handsome. 
In  particular  there  was  a  butler  in  a  blue  coat  and 
bright  buttons"  [surely  this  was  a  footman?] 
"who  gave  quite  a  winey  flavour  to  the  table 
beer,  he  poured  it  out  so  superbly." 

Dinner  at  Mrs.  Jellyby's  in  Bleak  House  is 
one  of  the  funniest  and  most  delightful  incidents 
in  the  book,  especially  the  attendance.  "The 
young  woman  with  the  flannel  bandage  waited^ 
and  dropped  everything  on  the  table  wherever  it 
happened  to  go,  and  never  moved  it  again  until 
she  put  it  on  the  stairs.  Tne  person  I  had  seen 
in  pattens  (who  I  suppose  to  have  been  the  cook) 
frequently  came  and  skirmished  with  her  at  the 
door,  and  there  appeared  to  be  ill-will  between 
them."  The  dinner  given  by  Mr.  Guppy  at 
the  "  Slap  Bang  "  dining  house  is  another  feature 
of  this  book — veal  and  ham,  and  French  beans, 
summer  cabbage,  pots  of  half-and-half,  marrow 
puddings,  "three  Cheshires "  and  "three  small 
rums."  Of  the  items  in  this  list,  the  marrow 
pudding  seems  to  be  as  extinct — in  London,  at  all 
events — as  the  dodo.  It  appears  to  be  a  mixture 
of  bread,  pounded  almonds,  cream,  eggs,  lemon 
peel,  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  marrow  j  and  sounds 
nice. 


2s6  CAKES  AND  ALE 

.  David  Copperfield's  dinner  in  his  Buck- 
rngham  Street  chambers  was  an  event  vi^ith  a 
disastrous  termination.  "It  was  a  remarkable 
want  of  forethought  on  the  part  of  the  ironmonger 
who  had  made  Mrs.  Crupp's  kitchen  fireplace, 
that  it  was  capable  of  cooking  nothing  but  chops 
and  mashed  potatoes.  As  to  a  fish-kettle,  Mrs. 
Crupp  said  '  Well !  would  I  only  come  and  look 
at  the  range  ?  She  couldn't  say  fairer  than  that. 
Would  I  come  and  look  at  it  ? '  As  I  should  not 
have  been  much  the  wiser  if  I  had  looked  at  it 
I  said  never  rnind  fish.  But  Mrs.  Crupp  said, 
'  Don't  say  that  j  oysters  was  in,  and  why  not 
them  ? '  So  that  was  settled.  Mrs.  Crupp  then 
said  '  What  she  would  recommend  would  be  this. 
A  pair  of  hot  roast  fowls — from  the  pastry  cook's ; 
a  dish  of  stewed  beef,  with  vegetables — from  the 
pastry  cook's  j  two  little  corner  things,  as  a  raised 
pie  and  a  dish  of  kidneys — from  the  pastry  cook's ; 
a  tart,  and  (if  I  liked)  a  shape  of  jelly — from  the 
pastry  cook's.  This,'  Mrs.  Crupp  said,  'would 
leave  her  at  full  liberty  to  concentrate  her  mind 
on  the  potatoes,  and  to  serve  up  the  cheese  and 
celery  as  she  could  wish  to  see  it  done.' " 

Then  blessings  on  thee,  Micawber,  most 
charming  of  characters  in  fiction,  mightiest  of 
punch-brewers  !  The  only  feult  I  have  to  find 
with  the  novel  of  David  Copperfield  is  that  we 
don't  get  enough  of  Micawber.  The  same 
fault,  however,  could  hardly  be  said  to  lie  in  the 
play;  for  if  ever  there  was  a  "fat"  part,  it  is 
Wilkins  Micawber, 

Martin  Chuzziewit  bubbles  over  with  eating 
and  drinking  ;    and  "  Todgers "  has  become  as 


GASTRONOMY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  I57 

proverbial  as  Hamlet.  In  Nicholas  Nickleby^  too, 
we  find  plenty  of  mention  of  solids  and  liquids  ; 
and  as  a  poor  stroller  myself  at  one  time,  it 
has  always  struck  me  that  "  business  "  could  not 
have  been  so  very  bad,  after  all,  in  the  Crummies 
Combination  j  for  the  manager,  at  all  events, 
seems  to  have  fared  particularly  well.  Last  on 
the  list  comes  The  Old  Curiosity  Shop^  with  the 
celebrated  stew  at  the  "Jolly  Sandboys,"  the 
ingredients  in  which  have  already  been  quoted  by 
the  present  writer.  With  regard  to  this  stew 
all  that  I  have  to  remark  is  that  I  should  have 
substituted  an  ox-kidney  for  the  tripe,  and  left 
out  the  "  sparrowgrass,"  the  flavour  of  which 
would  be  quite  lost  in  the  crowd  of  ingredients. 
But  there !  who  can  cavil  at  such  a  feast  ? 
"Fetch  me  a  pint  of  warm  ale,  and  don't  let 
nobody  bring  into  the  room  even  so  much  as  a 
biscuit  till  the  time  arrives." 

Codlin  may  not  have  been  "the  friend"  j  but  he 
was  certainly  the  judge  of  the  "  Punch  "  party. 

In  this  realistic  age,  meals  on  the  stage  have  to 
be  provided  from  high-class  hotels  or  restaurants  ; 
and  this  is,  probably,  the  chief  reason  why  there 
is  so  little  eating  and  drinking  introduced  into 
the  modern  drama.  Gone  are  the  nights  of 
the  banquet  of  pasteboard  poultry,  "  property " 
pine-apples,  and  gilded  flagons  containing  nothing 
more  sustaining  than  the  atmosphere  of  coal-gas. 
Not  much  faith  is  placed  in  the  comic  scenes  of 
a  pantomime  nowadays  ;  or  it  is  probable  that 
the  clown  would  purloin  real  York  hams,  and 
stuff  Wall's  sausages  into  the  pockets  of  his 
ample  pants.     Champagne  is  champagne  under 


258  CAKES  AND  ALE 

the  present  regime  of  raised  prices,  raised  salaries, 
raised  everything  ;  and  it  is  not  so  long  since  1 
overheard  an  actor-manager  chide  a  vi^aiter  from 
a  fashionable  restaurant,  for  forgetting  the 
Soubise  sauce,  when  he  brought  the  cutlets. 

In  my  acting  days  we  usually  had  canvas 
fowls,  stuffed  with  sawdust,  when  we  revelled 
on  the  stage ;  or,  if  business  had  been  particularly 
good,  the  poultry  was  made  from  breakfast  rolls, 
with  pieces  skewered  on,  to  represent  the  limbs. 
And  the  potables — Gadzooks  !  What  horrible 
concoctions  have  found  their  way  down  this 
unsuspecting  throttle  !  Sherry  was  invariably  re- 
presented by  cold  tea,  which  is  palatable  enough 
if  home-made,  under  careful  superintendence, 
but,  drawn  in  the  property-master's  den,  usually 
tasted  of  glue.  Ginger  beer,  at  three-farthings 
for  two  bottles,  poured  into  tumblers  containing 
portions  of  a  seidlitz-powder,  always  did  duty 
for  champagne  ;  and  as  for  port  or  claret — well, 
I  quite  thought  I  had  swallowed  the  deadliest  of 
poisons  one  night,  until  assured  it  was  only  the 
cold  leavings  of  the  stage-door-keeper's  coffee  ! 

The  story  of  Tiny  Tim  who  ate  the  goose 
is  a  pretty  famiHar  one  in  stage  circles.  When 
playing  Bob  Cratchit,  in  The  Christmas  Carol  at 
the  Adelphi,  under  Mr.  Benjamin  Webster's 
management,  Mr.  J.  L.  Toole  had  to  carve  a  real 
goose  and  a  "  practicable  "  plum-pudding  during 
the  run  of  that  piece,  forty  nights.  And  the 
little  girl  who  played  Tiny  Tim  used  to  finish 
her  portions  of  goose  and  pudding  with  such 
amazing  celerity  that  Mr.  Toole  became  quite 
alarmed  on  her  account. 


GASTRONOMY  IN  FICTION  AND  DRAMA  259 

"'I  don*t  like  it,'  I  said,"  writes  dear  friend 
"Johnny,"  in  his  Reminiscences;  "'I  can't 
conceive  where  a  poor,  delicate  little  thing  like 
that  puts  the  food.  Besides,  although  I  like  the 
children  to  enjoy  a  treat' — and  how  they  kept 
on  enjoying  it  for  forty  nights  was  a  mystery, 
for  I  got  into  such  a  condition  that  if  I  dined 
at  a  friend's  house,  and  goose  was  on  the  table, 
I  regarded  it  as  a  personal  affront — I  said,  re- 
ferring to  Tiny  Tim,  '  I  don't  like  greediness  ; 
and  it  is  additionally  repulsive  in  a  refined- 
looking,  deHcate  Httle  thing  like  this  ;  besides, 
it  destroys  the  sentiment  of  the  situation — and 
when  I,  as  Bob,  ought  to  feel  most  pathetic,  I 
am  always  wondering  where  the  goose  and  the 
pudding  are,  or  whether  anything  serious  in  the 
way  of  a  fit  will  happen  to  Tiny  Tim  before 
the  audience,  in  consequence  of  her  unnatural 
gorging  ! '  Mrs.  Mellon  laughed  at  me  at  first, 
but  eventually  we  decided  to  watch  Tiny  Tim 
together. 

"We  watched  as  well  as  we  could,  and  the 
moment  Tiny  Tim  was  seated,  and  began  to 
eat,  we  observed  a  curious  shuffling  movement 
at  the  stage-fireplace,  and  everything  that  I  had 
given  her,  goose  and  potatoes,  and  apple-sauce 
disappeared  behind  the  sham  stove,  the  child 
pretending  to  eat  as  heartily  as  ever  from  the 
empty  plate.  When  the  performance  was  over, 
Mrs.  Mellon  and  myself  asked  the  little  girl 
what  became  of  the  food  she  did  not  eat,  and, 
after  a  little  hesitation,  she  confessed  that  her 
little  sister  (I  should  mention  that  they  were 
the  children  of  one  of  the  scene-shifters)  waited 


26o  CAKES  AND  ALE 

on  the  other  side  of  the  fireplace  for  the  supplies, 
and  then  the  whole  family  enjoyed  a  hearty 
supper  every  night. 

"  Dickens  was  very  much  interested  in  the 
incident.  When  I  had  finished,  he  smiled  a 
little  sadly,  I  thought,  and  then,  shaking  me  by 
the  hand,  he  said,  '  Ah  !  you  ought  to  have  given 
her  the  whole  goose.' " 


CHAPTER   XXII 


RESTORATIVES 

"  Raze  out  the  written  troubles  of  the  brain, 
And  with  some  antibilious  antidote 
Cleanse  the  stuff'd  bosom  of  that  perilous  stuff 
Which  weighs  upon  the  soul." 

William  of  Normandy — A  "  head  "  wind  at  sea — Beware  the 
druggist — Pick-me-ups  of  all  sorts  and  conditions — Anchovy 
toast  for  the  invalid — A  small  bottle — Straight  talks  to 
fanatics  —  Total  abstinence  as  bad  as  the  other  thing — 
Moderation  in  all  things — wisely  and  slow — Carpe  diem — 
But  have  a  thought  for  the  morrow. 

"I  CARE  not,"  observed  William  of  Normandy 
to  his  quartermaster- general,  on  the  morning 
after  the  revelry  which  followed  the  Battle  of 
Hastings,  "  who  makes  these  barbarians'  wines  ; 
send  me  the  man  who  can  remove  the  beehive 
from  my  overwrought  brain." 

This  remark  is  not  to  be  found  in  Macaulay's 
History  of  England ;  but  learned  authorities  who 
have  read  the  original  MS.  in  Early  Norman, 
make  no  doubt  as  to  the  correct  translation. 

"  It  is  excellent,"  as  the  poet  says,  "  to  have 
a  giant's   thirst ;   but  it  is   tyrannous  to  use  it 


262  CAKES  AND  ALE 

like  a  giant."  And  not  only  "  tyrannous  "  but 
short-sighted.  For  the  law  of  compensation  is 
one  of  the  first  edicts  of  Nature.  The  same 
beneficent  hand  which  provides  the  simple  fruits 
of  the  earth  for  the  delectation  of  man,  furnishes 
also  the  slug  and  the  wasp,  to  see  that  he  doesn't 
get  too  much.  Our  friend  the  dog  is  deprived 
of  the  power  of  articulation,  but  he  has  a  tail 
which  can  be  wagged  at  the  speed  of  600  revolu- 
tions to  the  minute.  And  the  man  who  overtaxes 
the  powers  of  his  inner  mechanism  during  the 
hours  of  darkness  is  certain  to  feel  the  effects,  to 
be  smitten  of  conscience,  and  troubled  of  brain, 
when  he  awakes,  a  few  hours  later  on.  As  this 
is  not  a  medical  treatise  it  would  be  out  of  place 
to  analyse  at  length  the  abominable  habit  which 
the  human  brain  and  stomach  have  acquired,  of 
acting  and  reacting  on  each  other  ;  suffice  it  to 
say  that  there  is  no  surer  sign  of  the  weakness 
and  helplessness  of  poor,  frail,  sinful,  fallen 
humanity  than  the  obstinacy  with  which  so 
many  of  us  will,  for  the  sake  of  an  hour  or  two's 
revelry,  boldly  bid  for  five  times  the  amount  of 
misery  and  remorse.  And  this  more  especially 
applies  to  a  life  on  the  ocean  wave.  The 
midshipmite  who  over-estimates  his  swallowing 
capacity  is  no  longer  "  mast  -  headed "  next 
morning ;  but  the  writer  has  experienced  a 
cyclone  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  ere  the  effects  of 
a  birthday  party  on  the  previous  night  had  been 
surmounted  ;  and  the  effects  of  "  mast-heading  " 
could  hardly  have  been  less  desirable.  In  that 
most  delightful  work  for  the  young,  Dana's  Two 
years  before  the  Masty  we  read  : 


KE3TORATIVES  t6'i 

"  Our  forecastle,  as  usual  after  a  liberty-day,  was 
a  scene  of  tumult  all  night  long,  from  the  drunken 
ones.  They  had  just  got  to  sleep  toward  morn- 
ing, when  they  were  turned  up  with  the  rest, 
and  kept  at  work  all  day  in  the  water,  carrying 
hides,  their  heads  aching  so  that  they  could 
hardly  stand.     This  is  sailors'  pleasure." 

Dana  himself  was  ordered  up  aloft,  to  reef 
"  torpsles,"  on  his  first  morning  at  sea  ;  and  he 
had  probably  had  some  sort  of  a  farewell  carouse, 
'ere  quitting  Boston.  And  the  present  writer 
upon  one  occasion — such  is  the  irony  of  fate — 
was  told  off  to  indite  a  leading  article  on  "  Tem- 
perance "  for  an  evening  journal,  within  a  very  few 
hours  of  the  termination  of  a  "  Derby  "  banquet. 

But  how  shall  we  alleviate  the  pangs  ?  How 
make  that  dreadful  "  day  after  "  endurable  enough 
to  cause  us  to  ofFer  up  thanks  for  being  still  allowed 
to  live  ?     Come,  the  panacea,  good  doctor  ! 

First  of  all,  then,  avoid  the  chemist  and  his 
works.  I  mean  no  disrespect  to  my  good  friend 
Sainsbury,  or  his  "Number  One  rick-me-up," 
whose  corpse-reviving  claims  are  indisputable ; 
but  at  the  same  time  the  habitual  swallower  of 
drugs  does  not  lead  the  happiest  life.  I  once 
knew  a  young  subaltern  who  had  an  account 
presented  to  him  by  the  cashier  of  the  firm  of 
Peake  and  Allen,  of  the  great  continent  of  India, 
for  nearly  300  rupees ;  and  the  items  in  said  account 
were  entirely  chloric  ether,  extract  of  cardamoms 
— with  the  other  component  parts  of  a  high-class 
restorative,  and  interest.  Saddening  !  The  next 
thing  to  avoid,  the  first  thing  in  the  morning, 
is   soda-water,  whether  diluted   with   brandy  or 


z64  CAKES  AND  ALE 

whisky.  The  "  peg "  may  be  all  very  well  as 
an  occasional  potation,  but,  believe  one  who  has 
tried  most  compounds,  'tis  a  precious  poor 
"  livener."  On  the  contrary,  although  a  beaker 
of  the  straw-coloured  (or  occasionally,  mahogany- 
coloured)  fluid  may  seem  to  steady  the  nerves  for 
the  time  being,  that  effect  is  by  no  means  lasting. 
But  the  same  panacea  will  not  do  in  every 
case.  If  the  patient  be  sufficiently  convalescent 
to  digest  a 

Doctor 

(I  do  not  mean  a  M.R.C.S.)  his  state  must  be  far 
from  hopeless.  A  "Doctor"  is  a  mixture  of 
beaten  raw  egg — not  forgetting  the  white,  which 
is  of  even  more  value  than  the  yolk  to  the 
invalid — brandy,  a  little  sifted  sugar,  and  new 
milk.  But  many  devotees  of  Bacchus  could  as 
soon  swallow  rum-and-oysters,  in  bed.  And  do 
not  let  us  blame  Bacchus  unduly  for  the  matutinal 
trouble.  The  fairy  Ala  has  probably  had  a 
lot  to  do  with  that  trouble.  A  "Doctor"  can 
be  made  with  sherry  or  whisky,  instead  of  brandy ; 
and  many  stockbrokers'  clerks,  sporting  journal- 
ists, and  other  millionaires  prefer  a 

Surgeon-Major^ 

who  appears  in  the  form  of  a  large  tumbler  con- 
taining a  couple  of  eggs  beaten,  and  filled  to  the 
brim  with  the  wine  of  the  champagne  district. 

A  Scorcher 

is  made  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  squeezed 
into  a  large  wine-glass  ;  add  a  liqueur-glassful  of 


RESTORATIVES  265 

old  brandy,  or  Hollands,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne. 
Mix  well,  and  do  not  allow  any  lemon-pips  to 
remain  in  the  glass. 

Prairie  Oyster, 

This  is  an  American  importation.  There  is 
a  legend  to  the  effect  that  one  of  a  hunting  party 
fell  sick  unto  death,  on  the  boundless  prairie  of 
Texas,  and  clamoured  for  oysters.  Now  the 
close  and  cautious  bivalve  no  more  thrives  in  a 
blue  grass  country  than  he  possesses  the  ability 
to  walk  up  stairs,  or  make  a  starting-price  book. 
So  one  of  the  party,  an  inventive  genius,  cudgelled 
his  brains  for  a  substitute.  He  found  some 
prairie  hen's  eggs,  and  administered  the  unbroken 
yolks  thereof,  one  at  a  time,  in  a  wine-glass  con- 
taining a  tea-spoonful  of  vinegar.  He  shook  the 
pepper-castor  over  the  yolks  and  added  a  pinch 
of  salt.  The  patient  recovered.  The  march  of 
science  has  improved  on  this  recipe.  Instead  of 
despoiling  the  prarie  hen,  the  epicure  now  looks 
to  Madame  Gobble  for  a  turkey  tgg.     And  a 

Worcester  Oyster 

is  turned  out  ready  made,  by  simply  substituting 
a  tea-spoonful  of  Lea  and  Perrins'  most  excellent 
sauce  for  vinegar. 

Brazil  Relish. 

This  is,  I  am  assured,  a  much-admired  restorative 
in  Brazil,  and  the  regions  bordering  on  the  River 
Plate.  It  does  not  sound  exactly  the  sort  of 
stimulant  to  take  after  a  "bump  supper,"  or  a 
"  Kaffir "  entertainment,  but  here  it  is  :    Into  a 


266  CAKES  AND  ALE 

wine-glass  half  full  of  cura^oa  pop  the  unbroken 
yolk  of  a  bantam's  egg.  Fill  the  glass  up  with 
maraschino.  According  to  my  notion,  a  good 
cup  of  hot,  strong  tea  would  be  equally  effectual, 
as  an  emetic,  and  withal  cheaper.  But  they 
certainly  take  the  mixture  as  a  pick-me-up  in 
Brazil. 

Port-flip 

is  a  favourite  stimulant  with  our  American 
cousins.  Beat  up  an  egg  in  a  tumbler — if  you 
have  no  metal  vessels  to  shake  it  in,  the  shortest 
way  is  to  put  a  clean  white  card,  or  a  saucer,  over 
the  mouth  of  the  tumbler,  and  shake — then  add 
a  little  sugar,  a  glass  of  port,  and  some  pounded 
ice.  Strain  before  drinking.  Leaving  out  the 
ice  and  the  straining,  this  is  exactly  the  same 
"  refresher  "  which  the  friends  of  a  criminal,  who 
had  served  his  term  of  incarceration  in  one  of 
H.M.  gaols,  were  in  the  habit  of  providing  for 
him  ;  and  when  the  Cold  Bath  Fields  Prison  was 
a  going  concern,  there  was  a  small  hostelry  hard 
by,  in  which,  on  a  Monday  morning,  the  con- 
sumption of  port  wine  (fruity)  and  eggs  ("shop 
'uns,"  every  one)  was  considerable.  This  on  the 
word  of  an  ex-warder,  who  subsequently  became 
a  stage-door  keeper. 

One  of  the  most  unsatisfactory  effects  of  good 
living  is  that  the  demon  invoked  over-night  does 
not  always  assume  the  same  shape  in  your 
waking  hours.  Many  sufferers  will  feel  a  loath- 
ing for  any  sort  of  food  or  drink,  except  cold 
water.  "The  capting,"  observed  the  soldier- 
servant  to  a  visitor  (this  is  an  old  story),  "ain't 


RESTORATIVES  267 

very  well  this  morning,  sir  ;  he've  just  drunk  his 
bath,  and  gone  to  bed  again."  And  on  the  other 
hand,  I  have  known  the  over-indulger  absolutely 
ravenous  for  his  breakfast.  "Brandy  and  soda, 
no,  dear  old  chappie  ;  as  many  eggs  as  they  can 
poach  in  five  minutes,  a  thick  rasher  of  York 
ham,  two  muffins,  and  about  a  gallon  and  a  half 
of  hot  coffee — that's  what  I  feel  like."  Medical 
men  will  be  able  to  explain  those  symptoms  in  the 
roysterer,  who  had  probably  eaten  and  drunk 
quite  as  much  over-night  as  the  "  capting."  For 
the  roysterer  with  a  shy  appetite  there  are  few 
things  more  valuable  than  an 

Anchvuy  Toast, 

The  concoction  of  this  belongs  to  bedroom 
cookery,  unless  the  sitting-room  adjoins  the  sleep- 
ing apartment.  For  the  patient  will  probably  be 
too  faint  of  heart  to  wish  to  meet  his  fellow-men 
and  women  downstairs,  so  early.  The  mixture 
must  be  made  over  hot  water.  Nearly  fill  a  slop- 
basin  with  the  boiling  element,  and  place  a  soup- 
plate  over  it.  In  the  plate  melt  a  pat  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Then  having  beaten  up  a 
raw  egg,  stir  it  in.  When  thoroughly  incorpor- 
ated with  the  butter  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
essence  of  anchovies.  Cayenne  ad  lib.  Then 
let  delicately-browned  crisp  toast  be  brought,  hot 
from  the  fire.  Soak  this  in  the  mixture,  and 
eat  as  quickly  as  you  can.  The  above  propor- 
tions must  be  increased  if  more  than  one  patient 
clamours  for  anchovy  toast ;  and  this  recipe  is  of 
no  use  for  a  dinner,  or  luncheon  toast ;  remember 
that.     After  the  meal  is  finished  turn  in  between 


268  CAKES  AND  ALE 

the  sheets  again  for  an  hour ;  then  order  a 
"  Doctor,"  or  a  "  Surgeon-Major  "  to  be  brought 
to  the  bedside.  In  another  twenty  minutes  the 
patient  will  be  ready  for  his  tub  (with  the  chill 
off,  if  he  be  past  thirty,  and  has  any  wisdom,  or 
liver,  left  within  him).  After  dressing,  if  he  live 
in  London  and  there  be  any  trace  of  brain-rack 
remaining,  let  him  take  a  brisk  walk  to  his  hair- 
dresser's, having  his  boots  cleaned  en  route.  This 
is  most  important,  whether  they  be  clean  or  dirty  ; 
for  the  action  of  a  pair  of  briskly-directed  brushes 
over  the  feet  will  often  remove  the  most  distress- 
ing of  headaches.  Arrived  at  the  perruquier's,  let 
the  patient  direct  him  to  rub  eau  de  Cologne^  or 
some  other  perfumed  spirit,  into  the  o'er-taxed 
cranium,  and  to  squirt  assorted  essences  over  the 
distorted  countenance.  A  good  hard  brush,  and 
a  dab  of  bay  rum  on  the  temples  will  complete 
the  cure  ;  the  roysterer  will  then  be  ready  to  face 
his  employer,  or  the  maiden  aunt  from  whom  he 
may  have  expectations. 

If  the  flavour  of  the  anchovy  be  disagreeable, 
let  the  patient  try  the  following  toast,  which  is 
similar  to  that  used  with  wildfowl :  Melt  a  pat 
of  butter  over  hot  water,  stir  in  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  Worcester  sauce,  the  same  quantity  of  orange 
juice,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  about  half  a  wine- 
glassful  of  old  port.  Soak  the  toast  in  this  mixture. 
The  virtues  of  old  port  as  a  restorative  cannot  be 
too  widely  known. 

St.  Mark's  Pick-me-up. 

The  following  recipe  was  given  to  the  writer 
by  a  member  of  an  old  Venetian  family. 


RESTORATIVES  269 

Ten  drops  of  angostura  in  a  liqueur- glass, 
filled  up  with  orange  bitters.  One  wine-glassful 
of  old  brandy,  one  ditto  cold  water,  one  liqueur- 
glassful  of  cura^oa,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Mix  well  together.  I  have  not  yet  tried  this, 
which  reads  rather  acid. 

For  an 

Overtrained 

athlete,  who  may  not  take  kindly  to  his  rations, 
there  is  no  better  cure  than  the  lean  of  an  under- 
done chop  {not  blue  inside)  hot  from  the  fire,  on  a 
hot  plate,  with  a  glass  of  port  poured  over.     A 

Hot-pickle  Sandwich 

should  be  made  of  two  thin  slices  of  crisp  toast 
(no  butter)  with  chopped  West  Indian  pickles  in 
between.     And  for  a 

Devilled  Biscuit 

select  the  plain  cheese  biscuit,  heat  in  the  oven, 
and  then  spread  over  it  a  paste  composed  of  finely- 
pounded  lobster  worked  up  with  butter,  made 
mustard,  ground  ginger,  cayenne,  salt,  chili 
vinegar,  and  (if  liked)  a  little  curry  powder. 
Reheat  the  biscuit  for  a  minute  or  two,  and 
then  deal  with  it.  Both  the  last-named  restora- 
tives will  be  found  valuable  ( ? )  liver  tonics  ;  and 
to  save  future  worry  the  patient  had  better 
calculate,  at  the  same  time,  the  amount  of  Estate 
Duty  which  will  have  to  be  paid  out  of  his 
personalty,  and  secure  a  nice  dry  corner,  out  of 
the  draught,  for  his  place  of  sepulture.     A 


270  CAKES  AND  ALE 

Working-Man's  Livener^ 

(and  by  "working-man"  the  gentleman  whose 
work  consists  principally  in  debating  in  taverns  is 
intended)  is  usually  a  hair  of  the  dog  that  bit 
him  over- night ;  and  in  some  instances  where 
doubt  may  exist  as  to  the  particular  "  tufter  "  of 
the  pack  which  found  the  working-man  out, 
the  livener  will  be  a  miscellaneous  one.  For 
solid  food,  this  brand  of  labourer  will  usually 
select  an  uncooked  red -herring,  which  he  will 
divide  into  swallow-portions  with  his  clasp-knife, 
after  borrowing  the  pepper-castor  from  the  tavern 
counter.  And  as  new  rum  mixed  with  four- 
penny  ale  occasionally  enters  into  the  over-night's 
programme  of  the  horny  -  handed  one,  he  is 
frequently  very  thirsty  indeed  before  the  hour  of 
noon. 

I  have  seen  a  journalist  suck  half  a  lemon, 
previously  well  besprinkled  with  cayenne,  prior  to 
commencing  his  matutinal  "scratch."  But  rum 
and  milk  form,  I  believe,  the  favourite  livener 
throughout  the  district  which  lies  between  the 
Adelphi  Theatre  and  St.  Paul's  Cathedral.  And, 
according  to  Doctor  Edward  Smith  (the  chief 
English  authority  on  dietetics),  rum  and  milk 
form  the  most  powerful  restorative  known  to 
science.  With  all  due  respect  to  Doctor  Smith 
I  am  prepared  to  back  another  restorative,  com- 
monly known  as  "  a  small  bottle  "  ;  which  means 
a  pint  of  champagne.  I  have  prescribed  this 
many  a  time,  and  seldom  known  it  fail.  In  case 
of  partial  failure  repeat  the  dose.  A  valuable  if 
seldom-employed  restorative  is  made  with 


RESTORATIVES  ^^x 

Bovril 

as  one  of  the  ingredients.  Make  half-a-pint  of 
beef-tea  in  a  tumbler  with  this  extract.  Put  the 
tumbler  in  a  refrigerator  for  an  hour,  then  add  a 
liqueur-glassful  of  old  brandy,  with  just  a  dust  of 
cayenne.  This  is  one  of  the  very  best  pick-me- 
ups  known  to  the  faculty.     A 

Swizzle^ 

for  recuperative  purposes  is  made  with  the  follow- 
ing ingredients  : — a  wine-glassful  of  Hollands,  a 
liqueur-glassful  of  cura^oa,  three  drops  of  angos- 
tura  bitters,  a  little  sugar,  and  half  a  small  bottle 
of  seltzer-water.  Churn  up  the  mixture  with  a 
swizzle-stick,  which  can  be  easily  made  with  the 
assistance  of  a  short  length  of  cane  (the  ordinary 
school-treat  brand)  a  piece  of  cork,  a  bit  of  string, 
and  a  pocket  knife. 

A  very  extraordinary  pick-me-up  is  mentioned 
by  Mr.  F.  C.  Philips,  in  one  of  his  novels,  and 
consists  of  equal  parts  of  brandy  and  chili  vinegar 
in  a  large  wine-glass.  Such  a  mixture  would,  in 
all  probability,  corrode  sheet-iron.  I  am  afraid 
that  writers  of  romance  occasionally  borrow  a 
little  from  imagination. 

The  most  effectual  restorative  for  the  total 
abstainer  is  unquestionably,  old  brandy.  It 
should  be  remembered  that  a  rich,  heavy  dinner 
is  not  bound  to  digest  within  the  human  frame, 
if  washed  down  with  tea,  or  aerated  beverages. 
In  fact,  from  the  personal  appearances  of  many 
worthy  teetotallers  I  have  known  digestion  can- 
not be  their  strong  suit.     Then  many  abstainers 


272  CAKES  AND  ALE 

only  abstain  in  public,  for  the  sake  of  example. 
And  within  the  locked  cupboard  of  the  study 
lurks  a  certain  black  bottle,  which  does  not 
contain  Kopps's  ale.  Therefore  I  repeat  that 
the  most  effectual  restorative  for  the  total  abstainer 
— whether  as  a  direct  change,  or  as  a  hair  of  the 
dog — is  brandy. 

Our  ancestors  cooled  their  coppers  with  small 
ale,  and  enjoyed  a  subsequent  sluice  at  the  pump  in 
the  yard ;  these  methods  are  still  pursued  by  stable- 
helpers  and  such  like.  A  good  walk  acts  benefi- 
cially sometimes.  Eat  or  drink  nothing  at  all, 
but  try  and  do  five  miles  along  the  turnpike  road 
within  the  hour.  Many  habitual  roysterers  hunt 
the  next  morning,  with  heads  opening  and  shut- 
ting alternately,  until  the  fox  breaks  covert,  when 
misery  of  all  sorts  at  once  takes  to  itself  wings. 
And  I  have  heard  a  gallant  warrior,  whilst  engaged 
in  a  Polo  match  on  York  Knavesmire,  protest  that 
he  could  distinctly  see  two  Polo  balls.  But  he 
was  not  in  such  bad  case  as  the  eminent  jockey 
who  declined  to  ride  a  horse  in  a  hood  and 
blinkers,  because  "one  of  us  must  see,  and  I'm 
hanged  if  /  can  !  "  It  was  the  same  jockey  who, 
upon  being  remonstrated  with  for  taking  up  his 
whip  at  the  final  bend,  when  his  horse  was 
winning  easily,  replied  :  "  whip  be  bio  wed  !  it 
was  my  balance  pole  :  I  should  have  fell  ofF  with- 
out it  I  " 

Straight  Talks. 

In  the  lowest  depth  there  is  a  lower  depth, 
which  not  only  threatens  to  devour,  but  which 
will  infallibly  devour  the  too-persistent  roysterer. 


RESTORATIVES  ±73 

For  such  I  labour  not.  The  seer  of  visions,  the 
would-be  strangler  of  serpents,  the  baffled  rat- 
hunter,  and  other  victims  to  the  over-estimation 
of  human  capacity  will  get  no  assistance,  beyond 
infinite  pity,  from  the  mind  which  guides  this 
pen.  The  dog  will  return  to  his  own  vomit ;  the 
wilful  abuser  of  the  goods  sent  by  a  bountiful 
Providence  is  past  praying  for.  But  to  others 
who  are  on  the  point  of  crossing  the  Rubicon  of 
good  discretion  I  would  urge  that  there  will 
assuredly  come  a  time  when  the  pick-me-up 
will  lose  its  virtue,  and  will  fail  to  chase  the 
sorrow  from  the  brow,  to  minister  to  the  dis- 
eased mind.  Throughout  this  book  I  have 
endeavoured  to  preach  the  doctrine  of  moderation 
in  enjoyment.  Meat  and  drink  are,  like  fire, 
very  good  servants,  but  the  most  oppressive  and 
exacting  of  slave-drivers.  Therefore  enjoy  the 
sweets  of  life,  whilst  ye  can  ;  but  as  civilised 
beings,  as  gentlemen,  and  not  as  swine.  For 
here  is  a  motto  which  applies  to  eating  and 
drinking  even  more  than  to  other  privileges 
which  we  enjoy  : 

"  Wisely,  and  slow  ; 
They  stumble  who  run  fast ! " 

A  resort  to  extremes  is  always  to  be  deprecated, 
and  many  sensible  men  hold  the  total  abstainer 
in  contempt,  unless  he  abstain  simply  and  solely 
because  a  moderate  use  of  "  beer  znd  baccy " 
makes  him  ill ;  and  this  man  is  indeed  a  rarity. 
The  teetotaller  is  either  a  creature  with  no  will- 
power in  his  composition,  a  Pharisee,  who  thanks 
Providence   that   he  is  not  as   other   men,  or  a 


274  CAKES  AND  ALE 

lunatic.  There  can  be  no  special  virtue  in 
"swearing  ofF"  good  food  and  good  liquor; 
whether  for  the  sake  of  example,  or  for  the  sake 
of  ascending  a  special  pinnacle  and  posing  to 
the  world  as  the  incarnation  of  perfection  and 
hoHness.  In  the  parable,  the  Publican  was 
"justified"  rather  than  the  Pharisee,  because  the 
former  had  the  more  common  sense,  and  knew 
that   if  he  set   up  as    immaculate  and  without 

uile  he  was  deceiving  himself  and  nobody  else. 

ut  here  on  earth,  in  the  nineteenth  century, 
the  Publican  stands  a  very  poor  chance  with  the 
Pharisee,  whether  the  last-named  assume  the 
garb  of  "  Social  Purity,"  or  "  Vigilance,"  or  the 
sombre  raiment  of  the  policeman.  This  is  not 
right.  This  is  altogether  wrong.  The  total 
abstainer,  the  rabid  jackass  who  denies  himself — 
or  claims  that  he  does  so — the  juice  of  the  grape, 
and  drinks  the  horrible,  flatulent,  concoctions 
known  as  "temperance  beverages,"  is  just  as 
great  a  sinner  against  common  sense  as  that 
rabid  jackass  the  habitual  glutton,  or  drunkard, 
who,  in  abusing  the  good  things  of  life — the 
gifts  which  are  given  us  to  enjoy — is  putting 
together  a  rod  of  rattlesnakes  for  his  own  back. 

There  is  nothing  picturesque  about  drunken- 
ness ;  and  there  is  still  less  of  manliness  therein. 
There  is  plenty  of  excuse  for  the  careless,  happy- 
go-lucky,  casual  over-estimater,  who  revels,  on 
festive  occasions,  with  his  boon  companions. 
'Tis  a  poor  heart  that  never  rejoices ;  and 
wedding-feasts,  celebrations  of  famous  victories, 
birthday  parties,  and  Christmas  festivities  have 
been,  and  will  continue  to  be,  held  by  high  and 


RESTORATIVES  275 

low,  from  the  earliest  times.  But  there  is  no 
excuse,  but  only  pity  and  disgust,  for  the  sot 
who  sits  and  soaks — or,  worse  still,  stands  and 
soaks — in  the  tavern  day  after  day,  and  carries 
the  brandy-bottle  to  bed  with  him.  I  have  lived 
through  two-thirds  of  the  years  allotted  to  man, 
and  have  never  yet  met  the  man  who  has  done 
himself,  or  anybody  else,  any  good  by  eating  or 
drinking  to  excess.  Nor  is  the  man  who  has 
benefited  himself,  or  society,  through  scorning 
and  viHfying  good  cheer,  a  familiar  sight  in  our 
midst.  "Keep  in  the  middle  of  the  road,"  is 
the  rule  to  be  observed  ;  and  there  is  no  earthly 
reason  why  the  man  who  may  have  applied  "hot 
and  rebellious  liquors  "  to  his  blood,  as  a  youth, 
should  not  enjoy  that  "  lusty  winter  "  of  old  age, 
"frosty  but  kindly,"  provided  those  warm  and 
warhke  liquors  have  been  applied  in  moderation. 
I  will  conclude  this  sermon  with  part  of  a 
verse  of  the  poet  Dryden's  imitation  of  the 
twenty-ninth  Ode  of  Horace,  though  its  heathen 
carpe  diem  sentiments  should  be  qualified  by  a 
special  caution  as  to  the  possible  ill  effects  of 
bidding  too  fierce  a  defiance  to  the  "  reaction 
day." 

**  Happy  the  man,  and  happy  he  alone, 
He  who  can  call  to-day  his  own  ; 
He  who,  secure  within,  can  say  ; — 
To-morrow,  do  thy  worst,  I've  liv'd  to-day  !  " 


INDEX 


"^V  the  fairy,  68 
"Albion,"  the,  "^j 
Alexander  Dumas,  80 
Allowable  breakfast-dishes,  14 
Almanack    da    Gourmands,    79, 

184 
Anchovy  toast,  267 
Angel's  pie,  55 
Apiumy  the,  129 
Apricot  brandy,  229 
Artichoke,  the,  130 

Jerusalem,  131 
Ascot  luncheon,  54 
Asparagus,  124 

with  eggs,  17 
Aspic,  176 
Athole  brose,  241 

Baksheesh,  ioo 
Ball  suppers,  175 
Banquet,  a  vegetarian,  132 
"  Beano,"  a,  121 
Beans,  119 

"Borston,"  120 
Beef,  "  can't  eat,"  96 
Bernardin  salmi,  a,  92 
Birch's,  37 
Bhchoff^  2 1 1 
Biscuit,  a  devilled,  269 
Bishop,  212 


Bisque,  89 
Bitters,  229 

Blackmore,  R.  D.,  247 
Blue  blazer,  243 
Bombay  duck,  a,  146 
Bones,  grilled,  189 
Bosom  caresser,  a,  239 
Bouillabaisse,  88 
Bovril,  271 
Braddon,  Miss,  247 
Brandy,  apricot,  229 

cherry,  227 

ginger,  230 

orange,  230 

sour,  243 
Brazil  relish,  265 
Breakfast, allowable  dishes  at,  14 

French,  27 

Indian,  31 

Mediterranean,  26 

with  "my  tutor,"  32 
Brillat  Savarin,  106 
Brinjal,  the,  131 
Broth,  Scotch,  52 
Buckmaster,  jj 
Bull's  milk,  240 
Burmah,  food  in,  203 
Burns,  John,  234 

Cabbage,  the,  115 


278 


CAKES  AND  ALE 


Calcutta  jumble,  16 
"Cannie  Carle,"  189 
Canvass-back  duck,  a,  95 
Carlton  House  Terrace,  91 
Carlyle,  Thomas,  246 
Carrot,  the,  121 
Cassis,  244 
Cauliflower,  the,  115 
Cedric  the  Saxon,  66 
Celery,  129 

sauce,  164 
Champagne  and  stout,  225 
Charles  Dickens,  52,  248 
Chateaubj-'iandy  a,  70 
Chef,  Indian,  135 
"  Cheshire  Cheese,"  the,  39 

pudding,  39 
Chinaman's  meal,  a,  91 
Chops,  50 
Chota  Hazri,  29 
Choufleur  au  gratin,  116 
Chowringhee  Club,  the,  135 
Christmas  dinner,  a,  82 
Chutnee,  raw,  163 
Chutnine,  163 
Cinquevalli,  Paul,  112 
City  dinners,  100 
Clam  chowder,  95 
Cleopatra,  170 
"Coal-hole,"  the,  187 
Cobbler,  champagne,  226 

sherry,  226 
Cocktail,  Bengal,  236 

brandy,  235 

champagne,  236 

gin,  237 

Manhattan,  236 

Milford,  236 

Newport,  237 

Saratoga,  237 

whisky,  237 

Yum  Yum,  236 
Cod  liver,  102. 
Coffee  tree,  the,  7 
Cold  mutton,  162 


Collins,  John,  218 
Coloured  help,  94 
Corelli,  Marie,  247 
Cow,  milking  a,  205 
Crecy  soup,  122 
Cremorne  Gardens,  184 
Cup,  ale,  226 

Ascot,  224 

Balaclava,  223 

Chablis,  222 

champagne,  222 

cider,  221 

claret,  220 

Crimean,  223 

Moselle,  226 
Curry,  Benares,  134 

dry  Madras,  144 

locust,  140 

Malay,  140 

Parsee,  136 

powder,  139 

Prawn,  143 

rice  for,  17,  145 

what  to,  142 

when  served,  141 
Cyclone,  a,  262 

Dana,  263 
Delmonico,  95 
Devilled  biscuit,  a,  269 
Dickens,  Charles,  52,  248 
Dingley  Dell,  249 
Dinner,  afloat.  10 1 

city,  100 

Christmas,  82 

an  ideal,  loi 
Doctor,  a,  264 

Samuel  Johnson,  71 
Donald,  220 
Duck,  Bombay,  146 

canvass- back,  95 

jugged,  with  oysters,  46 

Rouen,  87 

-squeezer,  93 
Dumas,  Alexander,  80 


INDEX 


279 


Dumpling,  kidney,  190 

Early  Christians,  63 

Closing  Act,  181 
Eggs  and  bacon,  13 
Elizabeth,  (^ueen,  66 
Englishman  in  China,  the,  92 
Evans's,  181 

Fairy  "^/fl,"  the,  68 

kiss,  a,  240 
Fergus  Maclvor,  67 
Fin'an  haddie,  23 
Fixed  bayonet,  a,  91 
Flash  of  lightning,  a,  240 
Flip,  ale-,  216 

egg-,  217 

-flap,  241 
Fowls,  Surrey,  88 
Free  trade,  8 
French  soup,  97 
Frkandeau,  a,  104 

Garlic,  128 
Gin,  sloe,  227 
Ginger  brandy,  230 
Glasgow,  the  late  Lord,  191 
Goats,  sacrifice  of,  198 
Goose  pie,  56 
Gordon  hotels,  71 
Green,  "Paddy,"  182 
Greenland,  across,  no 
Grilled  bones,  189 
Grouse  pie,  48 
Gubbins  sauce,  14 

Haggis,  63 
Halibut  steak,  a,  20 
Happy  Eliza,  242 
Hawkins,  Sir  John,  113 
Hawthornden,  84 
Help,  coloured,  94 
Highland  cordial,  229 
HoUingshead,  John,  181 
Home  Ruler,  227 


Horatius  Flaccus,  112 
Horse-radish  sauce,  164 

steaks,  igi 
Hotch  potch,  53 
Hotel  breakfasts,  17 

"Parish,"  21 
Hot-pot,  Lancashire,  42 
Hunting  luncheons,  48 

Indian  breakfasts,  31 
Irish  stew,  50 

James  I.,  King,  64 

Japan,  92 

Jesuits,  the,  93 

Johnson,  Doctor,  71 

John  Collins,  218 

"Jolly  Sandboys,"  the,  51 

"Joseph,"  83 

Jugged  duck  with  oysters,  46 

Jumping  powder,  230 

Kent  Road  Cookery,  the,  109 
Kidney  dumpling,  190 

in  fire-shovel,  188 
King  James  I.,  64 
Kiss,  a  fairy,  240 
Kitchener,  Doctor,  139 
Knickerbein,  a,  239 

Lamb,  Charles,  146 
Lamb's  head  and  mince,  186 
Lampreys,  106 
Lancashire  hot-pot,  42 
Large  peach,  a,  15 
Larks,  such,  46 
Lightning,  a  flash  of,  240 
Li  Hung  Chang,  91 
Liver,  cod's,  102 
Lorna  Doom,  247 
Louis  XII.,  60 

XIV.,  60 
Lucian,  119 
Luncheon,  Ascot,  54 

race-course,  50 


28o 


CAKES  AND  ALE 


Luncheon,  Simla,  58 

Macaulay,  Lord,  261 
Maa'ere,  94 
Maiden's  blush,  241 
Majesty,  Her,  107 
Mandragora,  231 
Marrow,  vegetable,  130 
Marsala,  94 
Mayfair,  85 
Mayonnaise,  153 
Mediterranean  breakfast,  a,  26 
Mess-table,  the,  105 
Miladi's  boudoir,  190 
Milk,  bull's,  240 
Mint  julep,  242 
M'lrepoix,  a,  89 
Mutton,  cold,  162 

Nansen's  banquet  on  the  ice,  109 
Napoleon  the  Great,  107 
Nero,  62 

New  York  City,  95 
Nipping  habit,  the,  233 
"No  cheques  accepted,"  18 

Off  to  Gold-land,  25 
"Old  Coppertail,"  197 
Onion,  the,  128 
Orange  brandy,  230 

sauce,  161 
Orgeat,  224 
Out  West,  96 
Oven,  the,  76 
Overtrained,  269 
Oysters,  Aden,  172 

in  their  own  juice,  173 

Kurachi,  171 

prairie,  265 

sauce,  137 

scalloped,  173 

stewed,  174 

Worcester,  265 

"  Paddy"  Green,  182 


Parsnip,  the,  129 
Parlour  cookery,  187 
Payne,  George,  82 
Peake  and  Allen,  263 
"Peg,"  a,  217 
Pepper-pot,  195 
Pease,  117 
Pea  soup,  118 
Peter  the  Great,  106 
Physician,  an  eminent,  108 
Pick-me-up,  "Number  One,' 
263 

St.  Mark's,  268 
Pickles,  hot,  269 
Pie,  angel's,  55 

goose,  56 

grouse,  48 

pigeon,  55 

pork,  49 

Wardon,  5 

woodcock,  47 

Yorkshire,  49 
Poor,  how  they  live,  109 
Pope,  Doctor  Joseph,  146 
Possets,  242 
Pork,  roast,  45 
Potato,  the,  iii 

salad,  155 
Port-flip,  266 
Powder,  jumping,  230 
Pre  sale,  a,  90 
Prison  fare,  no 
"Property"  food,  258 
Pudding,  Cheshire  cheese,  39 

plover,  46 

rabbit,  45 

snipe,  41 
Pulled  turkey,  94 
Punch,  206 

ale,  214 

Barbadoes,  214 

Cambridge,  210 

Curagoa,  214 

Grassot,  214 

Glasgow,  213 


INDEX 


28l 


Punch,  Halo,  212 
milk,  208 
Oxford,  210 
Regent,  215 

Queen  Elizabeth,  66 

Rabbit  pie,  45 
Race-course  luncheons,  50 

sandwich,  53 
Rajah's  hospitality,  a,  196 
Raleigh,  Sir  Walter,  113 
Rat  snakes,  204 
Regimental  dinner,  a,  99 
Rice  for  curry,  17,  145 
Richardson,  81 
Roasting,  76 
Romans,  the,  59 
Royalty,  85 
Rouen  ducks,  87 

Salad,  anchovy,  160 

a  memorable,  157 

boarding-house,  150 

celery,  156 

cheese  in,  158 

corn,  158 

Francatelli's,  150 

French,  151 

fruit,  161 

herring,  155 

Italian,  159 

lobster,  151 

maker,  a  gentleman-,  156 

orange,  161 

potato,  155 

Roman,  159 

Russian,  160 

tomato,  156 
Salads,  147 

Sala,  George  Augustus,  ji 
Salmi  Bernardiriy  92 

of  wild-duck,  93 
Salmon  steak,  24 
Sandhurst  R.  M.  C,  67 


Sandwich,  a  race-course,  53 
Sambal,  168 
St.  Leger,  the,  84 
Sauce,  carp,  165 

celery,  164 

Christopher  North's,  165 

currant,  167 

goose,  168 

gooseberry,  166 

Gubbins,  14 

hare,  165 

horse-radish,  164 

orange,  16 1 

oyster,  137 

Tapp,  190 

Tar  tare,  166 
Savarin,  Brillat,  90 
Saxon  dining-table,  a,  65 
Scorcher,  a,  264 
Scott,  Sir  Walter,  67 
Scalloped  oysters,  173 
Scotch  broth,  52 
Shandy  gaff",  rich  man's,  225 
Shepherd's  pie,  45 
Ship  and  Turtle,  the,  38 
Sidney,  Harry,  183 
Simla,  luncheon  at,  58 

to  Cashmere,  200 
Sligo  slop,  244 
Sloe  gin,  227 
Smith,  Sydney,  147 
Snipe  pudding,  41 
Soup,  French,  97 
"Spanky,"  182 
Spinach,  127 
Sprats,  179 
Staff'  of  life,  the,  7 
Steaks,  50 

salmon,  24 

thoroughbred  horse,  191 
Steam-chest,  the,  76 
!  Stew,  Irish,  50 
I      "Jolly  Sandboys,"  51 
I      oyster,  174 
I  Stout  and  champagne,  225 


282 


CAKES  AND  ALE 


Straight  talks,  272 
Suetonius,  6i 
Suffolk  pride,  56 
Such  larks,  46 
Supper,  Hotel  Cecil,  179 

ball,  175 
Surgeon-major,  a,  264 
Surrey  fowls,  88 
Swizzle,  a,  271 

Tapp  sauce,  190 
Tartar  sauce,  166 
Tea,  6 

a  la  Franc ahe,  28 
Thibet,  200 
Thumb-piece,  53 
Tiger's  milk,  241 
Toddy,  215 

whisky,  216 
Tomato,  the,  126 
Tomnoddy,  Lord,  180 
Toole,  John  Lawrence,  258 
Tournedos,  a,  89 
Tripe,  177 

how  to  cook,  178 
Tsar,  the,  57 
Tsaritza,  the,  86 


Turkey,  the,  94 

pulled,  94 
Turmeric,  139 
Turnip,  127 
Turner,  Godfrey,  103 

Vegetarian  banquet,  a,  132 
Vitellius,  61 
yol-au-Vent Jinanciere,  90 

Waiter,  the,  112 
Warden  pie,  a,  5 
Wellington,  Duke  of,  107 
West  Indies,  the,  240 
West,  out,  96 
Whisky,  sour,  243 
Wild-duck,  salmi  of,  93 
William  the  Conqueror,  261 
Woodcock  pie,  47 
Working  man,  the,  270 
Wyndham,  241 


Yates,     Edmund's 

cences,  178 
York,  New,  95 
Yorkshire  pie,  49 


Reminis- 


THE    END 


mhjlbb,  son,  and  compt.,  limited, 

printers, 

fakenham  and  london. 


Telephone— 6659  Gerrard  3 1 ,  Essex  Street, 

Telegraphic  Address— Gucien,  London  London,  England 

Cable  Code— Paul's  Simplicode  1914—1915 

STANLEY  PAUL  &  CO.'S 

LIST  of  NEW  BOOKS 

***  Previous  Lists  Cancelled 
A    GREAT    LITERARY    DISCOVERY 


JULIETTE      DROUET'S        LOVE-LETTERS      TO 
VICTOR  HUGO 

Edited  with  a  Biography  of  Juliette  Drouet  by  Louis 

Guimbaud  ;  translated  by  Lady  Theodora  Davidson. 

Demy  8vo ,  cloth  gilt,  with  many  illustrations,    10/6 

net. 
What  is  described  as  the  most  fascinating  and  notable  human 
document  seen  for  many  years  has  recently  been  discovered  in  Paris 
by  a  distinguished  French  author,  whose  work  has  received  the  crown 
of  the  Academy.  This  writer,  after  ten  years'  patient  work,  has 
brought  to  light  a  collection  of  letters  written  by  Juliette  Drouet  to 
Victor  Hugo. 

The  story  of  Juliette's  love  for  the  great  French  novelist  is  one  of  the 
most  romantic  in  history.  Becoming  devotedly  attached  to  him  when 
he  first  noticed  her  playing  a  humble  part  in  "  Lucrezia  Borgia,"  she 
followed  him  in  his  exile  to  Brussels,  Guernsey  and  Jersey,  where  she 
inspired  some  of  his  greatest  poems.  To  console  herself  whenever  he 
was  absent,  she  wrote  down  "  everything  that  came  into  her  head, 
everything  that  caused  her  heart  to  beat."  These  are  not  ordinary 
love-letters,  but  "  scribbles,"  as  Juliette  herself  called  them,  thrown 
upon  paper  hour  after  hour,  cast  into  a  corner  without  being  read  over, 
and  secured  by  the  lover  at  each  of  his  visits,  as  so  many  trophies  of 
passion. 

These  letters  were  written  so  constantly  that  they  number  in  all  as 
many  as  15,000,  and  of  these  a  careful  selection  has  been  made  for 
publication.  M.  Louis  Guimbaud,  who  is  responsible  for  the  discovery 
of  the  letters,  has  added  an  extremely  interesting  biographical  study  of 
Juliette  and  her  relations  with  Victor  Hugo.  The  book,  which  is 
illustrated  by  a  remarkable  series  of  illustrations  from  the  Victor 
Hugo  Museum,  contains  many  of  the  most  tender  and  passionate 
love-letters  ever  written. 


LIFE  AND  LETTERS  IN  THE  ITALIAN  RENAIS- 
SANCE 

By  Christopher  Hare,  author  of  ' '  Men  and  Women  of 
the  Italian  Reformation,"  etc. 

Demy  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  illustrated,  12/6  net. 
In  this  author's  previous  books  on  the  Renaissance,  he  has  told  the 
story  of  Illustrious  Ladies,  of  Emperors  and  Kings,  Popes  and  Warriors, 
as  makers  of  history  in  Italy  and  other  lands.  The  present  work  is 
concerned  with  a  finer  and  more  enthralling  subject :  the  lives  of  writers 
and  thinkers  as  contrasted  with  the  mere  pomp  and  splendour  of  the 
time.  The  Poet,  the  Humanist,  the  Historian,  the  Diplomatist,  and 
the  Letter- writer,  from  Lorenzo  the  Magnificent  to  ^lachiavelli  and 
Baldassare  Castiglione,  are  treated  in  turn,  in  a  bright,  illuminating 
narrative. 

THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF  QUEEN  ADELAIDE 

By  Mary  F.  Sandars,  Author  of  ' '  Princess  and  Queen 

of  England,"  etc. 
Demy  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  with  many  rare  illustrations,  16/-  net. 
The  wife  of  William  IV.  came  as  a  foreigner  to  be  Queen  of  England, 
and  found  herself  surrounded  by  difficult  and  trying  circumstances, 
both  political  and  domestic.  In  dread  of  an  impending  revolution 
she  exerted  all  her  influence  on  the  side  of  peace,  and  by  this  and  the 
purity  of  her  life  and  aims  she  earned  the  title  of  "  Good  Queen 
Adelaide." 

THE  MARTYR  OF  LOVE  :    The  Life  of  Louise  de 

LA    VaLLIERE 

By  Claude  Ferval,   with  an  introduction   by   Jean 

Richepin  ;  translated  by  Sidney  Dark. 
Demy  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  illustrated,  16/-  net. 
No  more  poignant  account  of  the  romance  of  Louise  de  la  Valliere 
has  ever  been  written  than  this  by  Claude  Ferval,  the  well-known 
French  romantic  writer.  In  its  always  interesting  setting  of  the  gay, 
intriguing  court  at  Fontainebleau,  it  tells  in  delightful,  sympathetic 
language  the  story  of  the  first  mistress  of  Louis  XIV.  It  is  at  once  a 
vivid  historical  study  and  a  passionate  romance. 

IMPERIAL    AMERICA 

By  J.  M.  Kennedy,  Author  of  "  Tory  Democracy,"  etc. 

Demy  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  illustrated,  12/6  net. 
Thoughtfully  and  lucidly,  Mr.  J.  M.  Kennedy,  who  is  a  well-known 
authority  on  international  affairs,  describes  the  "  imperialistic " 
attitude  of  the  United  States  in  their  relation  to  the  European  Powers 
and  especially  to  Great  Britain.  The  history  of  the  States  is  traced 
in  this  light,  the  objects  of  the  Monroe  Doctrine  are  explained,  and  a 
description  is  given  of  the  working  of  the  U.S.A.  home  politics.  The 
book  is  essentially  up-to-date  in  its  assignment  of  the  place  of  the 
United  States  in  European  controversies. 


IRELAND  :   Vital  Hour. 

<fediiq'By  Arthur  Lynch,  M.P.,  Author  of  "  Modern  Authors  : 

A  Review  and  Forecast,"  "Approaches  :    The  Poor 

Scholar's  Quest  of  a  Mecca,"  "  Our  Poets,"  "Human 

ij  Documents,"    "  Prince    Azreel,"    "  Psychology  :  "A 

^"  New  System,"  "  Purpose  and  Evolution,"  "  Sonnets 

of  the  Banner  and  the  Star,"  etc.,  etc. 

In  Demy  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  10/6  net. 

Here,  at  length,  is  a  fearless  and  illuminating  book,  written  with 
inside  knowledge  of  Irish  politics.  The  author  has  had  opportunity 
given  to  few  of  possessing  essential  knowledge  of  Irish  organisations . 
He  writes,  however,  less  as  an  historian  than  as  an  engineer.  He  has 
entered  upon  the  work  in  that  rare  spirit  of  patriotism  which  seeks  the 
weaknesses  and  the  strength  of  the  materials  of  which  the  Irish  nation 
of  the  future  must  be  built.  He  tests  the  materials  remorselessly, 
cutting  down  beneath  surface-show  till  he  finds  sound  substance. 

Animated  as  he  is  by  hope  for  Ireland  he  discards  flattery  and 
flummery,  and  some  of  his  criticisms  of  the  existing  state  of  affairs, 
particularly  the  influence  of  the  clergy  in  politics,  will  produce  a  deep 
impression,  and  perhaps  provoke  fierce  rejoinders.  These  remarks 
apply  not  to  the  priests  only,  but  to  their  Orange  confreres.  His  fer- 
vent desire  is  to  see  religious  strife  and  bigotry  eliminated  from  Irish 
public  life. 

On  the  whole  the  book  is  both  conciliatory  and  unifying,  and  the  true 
way  of  Ireland's  concord  with  England  is  pointed  out.  While  daringly 
thrusting  his  hand  into  the  furnace  of  burning  questions  of  the  day,  the 
author  has  written  in  an  easy,  discursive  style,  lightening  the  pages  by 
humourous  touches,  after  the  manner  of  his  "  Human  Documents,"  or 
by  graphic  personal  descriptions  of  famous  men — such  as  Parnell, 
Davitt  and  Synge — whom  he  has  encountered  in  his  career.  He  prefers 
to  illustrate  a  point  by  anecdote  rather  than  belabour  it  by  an  argument. 

One  of  the  chapters  is  in  part  Autobiograpical ;  another  chapter  speaks 
of  Parliament,  with  piquant  notes  of  irony  ;  a  fresh  and  lively  dis- 
cussion of  Irish  Literature  illustrates  the  author's  characteristic  style  of 
uttering  deep  sayings  in  a  light  mood  ;  whilst  another  chapter,  deal- 
ing with  the  Irish  in  America,  will  be  read  with  peculiar  interest  at  the 
present  time. 

Altogether  an  original,  bold,  sincere,  and,  above  all,  upbuilding  book. 

MARCHING    SONGS. 

A  pocket  book  for  our  soldiers. 

In  cloth  limp,  6d,  net. 
"  A  merry  heart  goes  all  the  day — your  sad  tires  in  a  mile-a."  Every 
soldier  knows  that  without  the  rousing  song  each  mile  grows  longer  and 
longer.  The  object  of  this  little  handbook  of  melody  is  to  help  our 
weary  warriors  on  their  way.  Songs  which  they  sang  as  boys,  and  still 
sing  as  men,  are  here  collected — songs  with  stirring  tunes,  swinging 
choruses,  and  all  in  correct  time  for  marching.  There  is  nothing  to 
learn  ;  half  the  men  in  a  Company  would  already  know  both  the  words 
and  music  of  most,  and  the  book  is  but  a  peg  for  the  memory.  To  suit  all, 
the  tunes  are  given  in  the  old,  and  in  the  tonic-sol-fa  notation. 

8 


THE   PRINCESS   MATHILDE  BONAPARTE 

By  Philip  W.  Sergeant,  Author  of  "  The  Last  Empress 
of  the  French,"  etc. 

Demy  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  fully  illustrated,  16/-  net. 
Princess  Mathilde  Bonaparte,  the  niece  of  the  great  Emperor,  died 
only  ten  years  ago.  She  was  the  first  serious  passion  of  her  cousin,  the 
Emperor^Napoleon  III,  and  she  might  have  been,  if  she  had  wished, 
Empress  of  the  French,  Instead,  she  preferred  to  rule  for  half  a 
century  over  a  salon  in  Paris,  where,  although  not  without  fault,  she 
was  known  as  "  the  good  princess." 

JEJIOM  JUNGLE  TO  ZOO 

"/      By  Ellen  Velvin,   F.Z.S.,   Author  of   "Behind  the 

Scenes  with  Wild  Animals,'*  etc. 

Large   crown   Svo,    cloth  gilt,   with    many  remarkable 

photographs,  6/-  net. 
A  fascinatmg  record  of  the  many  adventures  to  which  wild  animals 
and  their  keepers  are  subject  from  the  time  the  animals  are  captured 
until  their  final  lodgment  in  Zoo  or  menagerie.  The  author  has  studied 
wild  animals  for  sixteen  years,  and  writes  from  personal  knowledge. 
The  book  is  full  of  exciting  stories  and  good  descriptions  of  the  methods 
of  capture,  transportation  and  caging  of  savage  animals,  together 
with  accounts  of  their  tricks,  training,  and  escapes  from  captivity. 

THE  ADMIRABLE  PAINTER :     A  study  of  Leonardo 
da  Vinci 
By  A.  J.  Anderson,  Author  of  *'  The  Romance  of  Era 
Filippo  Lippi,*'  "  His  Magnificence,*'  etc. 
Demy  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  fully  illustrated,  10/6  net. 
In  this  book  we  find  Leonardo  da  Vinci  to  have  been  no  absorbed, 
religious  painter,  but  a  man  closely  allied  to  every  movement  of  the 
brilliant  age  in  which  he  lived.     Leonardo  jotted  down  his  thoughts  in 
his  notebooks  and  elaborated  them  with  his  brush,  in  the  modelling 
of  clay,  or  in  the  planning  of  canals,  earthworks  and  flying-machines. 
These  notebooks  form  the  groundwork  of  Mr.  Anderson's  fascinating 
study,  which  gives  us  a  better  understanding  of  Leonardo,  the  man,  as 
well  as  the  painter,  than  was  possible  before. 

WOMEN  OF  THE  REVOLUTIONARY  ERA 

By  Lieut. -Col.  Andrew  C.  P.  Haggard,  D.S.O.,  Author 

of  "  Remarkable  Women  of  France,  1431—1749,"  etc. 

Demy  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  fully  illustrated,  16/-  net. 

Lleut.-Col.   Haggard   has    many    times    proved    that    history    can 

bie  made  as  fascinating  as  fiction.      Here  he  deals  with    the   women 

whose  more  or  less  erratic  careers  influenced,  by  their  love  of  display, 

the  outbreak  which  culminated  in  the  Reign  of  Terror.    Most  of  them 

lived  til)  after  the  beginning  of  the  Revolution,  and  some,  like  Marie 

Antoinette,  Th6roigne  de  M^ricourt  and  Madame  Roland,  were  sucked 

down  in  the  maelstrom  which  their  own  actions  had  intensified. 

4 


THE  MEMOIRS  OF  THE  DUKE  de  ST.  SIMON 

Newly  translated  and  edited  by  Francis  Arkwright. 

»  In  six  volumes,  demy  8t;o,  handsomely  hound  in  cloth 

«'  gilt,  with  illustrations  in  photogravure,   10/6  net  each 

volume.  (Volumes  I.  and  II.  are  now  ready.) 
"'  No  historian  has  ever  succeeded  in  placing  scenes  and  persons  so 
vividly  before  the  eyes  of  his  readers  as  did  tlie  Duke  de  St.  Simon. 
He  was  a  born  observer  ;  his  curiosity  was  insatiable  ;  he  had  a  keen 
insight  into  character  ;  he  knew  everybody,  and  has  a  hundred  anec- 
dotes to  relate  of  the  men  and  women  he  describes.  He  had  a  singular 
knack  of  acquiring  the  confidential  friendship  of  men  in  high  office, 
from  whom  he  learnt  details  of  important  state  affairs.  For  a  brief 
while  he  served  as  a  soldier.  Afterwards  his  life  was  passed  at  the 
Court  of  Louis  XIV,  where  he  won  the  affectionate  intimacy  of  the 
Duke  of  Orleans  and  the  Duke  of  Burgundy.  St.  Simon's  famous 
Memoirs  have  recently  been  much  neglected  in  England,  owing  to  the 
mass  of  unnecessary  detail  overshadowing  the  marvellously  fascinating 
chronicle  beneath.  In  this  edition,  however,  they  have  been  carefully 
edited  and  should  have  an  extraordinarily  wide  reception. 

BY  THE  WATERS  OF  GERMANY 

By  Norma  Lorimer,  Author  of  "  A  Wife  out  of  Egypt," 
etc.     With  a  Preface  by  Douglas  Sladen. 
.^,  Demy   8vo,  cloth  gilt,  with  a  coloured  frontispiece  and 

16  other  illustrations  by  Margaret  Thomas  and  Erna 
i^  Michel,  12/6  net. 

'  This  fascinating  travel-book  describes  the  land  of  the  Rhine  and  the 
Black  Forest,  at  the  present  time  so  much  the  centre  of  public  interest. 
The  natural  and  architectural  beauties  of  Germany  are  too  supreme 
for  even  the  sternest  German-hater  to  deny  ;  and  this  book  describes 
them  and  the  land  around  them  well.  But  apart  from  the  love-story 
which  Miss  Lorimer  has  weaved  into  the  book,  a  particularly  great 
interest  attaches  to  her  description  of  the  home  life  of  the  men  who, 
since  she  saw  them,  have  deserved  and  received  the  condemnation  of 
the  whole  civilized  world. 

BY  THE  WATERS  OF  SICILY 

By  Norma  Lorimer,  Author  of  "By  the  Waters  of 
,^,  Germany,"  etc. 

New  and   Cheaper    Edition,     reset    from    new    type, 
Large   Crown   Svo,    cloth  gilt,  with  a  coloured  frontis- 
piece and  16  other  illustrations,  6/-. 
This  book,  the  predecessor  of  "  By  the  Waters  of  Germany,"  was 
called  at  the  time  of  its  original  publication  "  one  of  the  most  original 
books  of  travel  ever  published."     It  had  at  once  a  big  success,  but  for 
some  time  it  has  been  quite  out  of  print.     Full  of  the  vivid  colour  of 
Sicilian  life,  it  is  a  delightfully  picturesque  volume,  half  travel-book, 
half  story  ;   and  there  is  a  sparkle  in  it,  for  the  author  writes  as  if  glad 
to  be  alive  in  her  gorgeously  beautiful  surroundings. 

5 


THL    ESSEX    LIBRARY  f 

In  large  crown  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  illustrated,  5/-  net. 

"  The  Essex  Library  is  exceedingly  well  produced, 
especially  when  the  low  price  is  taken  into  considera- 
tion, and  of  a  format  at  once  convenient  and  digni- 
fied."— Bookman  • 

FEODOR  DOSTOIEFFSKY  :    A  Great  Russian  Realist. 

By  J,  A.  T.  Lloyd    Author  of  "  Two  Russian  Reformers,"    etc. 
2nd  Edition. 
**  A  critical  and  appreciative  biography  that  will  be  welcomed  by  all 
lovers  of  literature.     There  is  a  fascination  that  cannot  be  resisted  in 
its  pages." — Newcastle  Chronicle. 

THE  LIFE  OF  CESARE  BORGIA. 

By  Rafael  Sabatini,   Author  of  "  Torquemada  and  the  Spanish 
Inquisition,"  etc.     3rd  Edition. 
"  Mr.   Sabatini  has   a  lively  and  vigorous  style  which   imparts   a 
freshness  to  his  narrative,  and  the  story  of  Cesare  Borgia's  short  but 
varied    career    proves    as    entertaining    as    it    is    informing." 

— Daily  Telegraph. 

HONORS  DE  BALZAC  :    His  Life  and  Writings. 

By  Mary  F.  Sandars,  with  an  Introduction  by  W.  L.  Courtney, 
LL.D.     2nd  Edition. 
"  Excellent.     An  accurate,  complete,  intelligible  life  of  Balzac.     The 
one  book  of  its  kind  in  Europe." — Mr.  Tighe  Hopkins,  in  the  Daily 
Chronicle. 

THE    CINEMA    BOOKS 

In  crown  4to,  on  art  paper,  1/-  net  each. 

SHAKESPEARE'S  "  HAMLET "  :  The  story  of  the  Play  Con- 
cisely Told.  With  55  photographs  of  Sir  J.  Forbes-Robertson 
and  his  Company,  taken  from  the  Cinematograph  Film. 

THE  LIFE  AND  REIGN  OF  VICTORIA  THE  GOOD. 

By  May  Wynne,   Author  of  "  Henry  of  Navarre,"  etc.     With 

54  pictures  reproduced  from  the    Cinematograph   film  "  Sixty 

Years  a  Queen. 
A  great  patriotic  and  historical  interest   attaches  to   this   book. 

The  54   excellent  illustrations  show  all  the  principal  events  in 

British  History  from  1837-1900. 

THE  OLD  WOOD  CARVER. 

A  story  invented  by  the  late  Sir  Hubert  von  Herkomer,  R.A., 
and  told  by  J.  Saxon  Mills.  With  55  illustrations  reproduced 
from  the  Cinematograph  Film,  in  which  Sir  Hubert  von  Herk- 
omer played  the  name  part. 

6 


THE   NEW   FRANCE,   Being  a  History  from  the 

ACCESSION     OF     LOUIS     PhILIPPE     IN      1830     TO      THE 

Revolution  of  1848,  with  Appendices 
By  Alexandre  Dumas.     Translated  into  English,  with 

an  introduction  and  notes  by  R.  S.  Garnett. 
In  two  volumes,   Demy  Svo,   cloth  gilt,   profusely  illus- 
trated with  a  rare  portrait  of  Dumas  and  other  pictures 
after  famous  artists.     24/-  net. 

The  map  of  Europe  is  about  to  be  altered.  Before  long  we  shall  be 
engaged  in  the  marking  out.  This  we  can  hardly  follow  with  success 
unless  we  possess  an  intelligent  knowledge  of  the  history  of  our  Allies. 
It  is  a  curious  fact  that  the  present  generation  is  always  ignorant  of 
the  history  of  that  which  preceded  it.  Everyone  or  nearly  everyone  has 
read  a  history — Carlyle's  or  some  other — of  the  French  Revolution  of 
1789  to  1800  ;  very  few  seem  versed  in  what  followed  and  culminated 
in  the  revolution  of  1848,  which  was  the  continuation  of  the  first. 

Both  revolutions  resulted  from  an  idea — the  idea  of  the  people.  In 
1789  the  people  destroyed  servitude,  ignorance,  privilege,  monarchical 
despotism  ;  in  1848  they  thrust  aside  representation  by  the  few  and  a 
Monarchy  which  served  its  own  interests  to  the  prejudice  of  the  country. 
It  is  impossible  to  understand  the  French  Republic  of  to-day  unless 
the  struggle  in  1848  be  studied  :  for  every  profound  revolution  is 
an  evolution. 

A  man  of  genius,  the  author  of  the  most  essentially  French  book, 
both  in  its  subject  and  treatment,  that  exists  (its  name  is  The  Three 
Musketeers)  took  part  in  this  second  revolution,  and  having  taken  part 
in  it,  he  wrote  its  history.  Only  instead  of  calling  his  book  what  it  was 
— a  history  of  France  for  eighteen  years — that  is  to  say  from  the 
accession  of  Louis  Philippe  in  1830  to  his  abdication  in  1848 — he  called 
it  The  Last  King  of  the  French.  An  unfortunate  title,  truly,  for  while 
the  book  was  yet  a  new  one  the  "  last  King"  was  succeeded  by  a  man 
who,  having  been  elected  President,  made  himself  Emperor.  It  will 
easily  be  understood  that  a  book  with  such  a  title  by  a  republican  was 
not  likely  to  be  approved  by  the  severe  censorship  of  the  Second 
Empire.  And,  in  fact,  no  new  edition  of  the  book  has  appeared  for 
sixty  years,  although  its  republican  author  was  Alexandre  Dumas. 

During  the  present  war  the  Germans  have  twice  marched  over  his 
grave  at  Villers  Cotterets,  near  Soissons,  where  he  sleeps  with  his  brave 
father  General  Alexandre  Dumas.  The  first  march  was  en  route  for 
Paris  ;  the  second  was  before  the  pursuit  of  our  own  and  the  French 
armies,  and  while  these  events  were  taking  place  the  first  translation  of 
his  long  neglected  book  was  being  printed  in  London.  Hahent  sua  fata 
tihelli. 

Written  when  the  fame  of  its  brilliant  author  was  at  its  height,  this 
book  will  be  found  eminently  characteristic  of  him.  Although  a 
history  composed  with  scrupulous  fidelity  to  facts,  it  is  as  amusing  as  a 
romance.  Wittily  written,  and  abounding  in  life  and  colour,  the  long 
narrative  takes  the  reader  into  the  battlefield,  the  Court  and  the  Hotel 
de  Ville  with  equal  success.  Dumas,  who  in  his  early  days  occupied  a 
desk  in  the  prince's  bureaux,  but  who  resigned  it  when  the  Due 
d'Orleans  became  King  of  the  French,  relates  much  which  it  is  curious 
to  read  at  the  present  time.  To  his  text,  as  originally  published,  are 
added  as  Appendices  some  papers  from  his  pen  relating  to  the  history 
of  the  time,  which  are  unknown  in  England. 

7 


WAR  MEDALS  AND  THEIR  HISTORY 

^-      By    W.    Augustus    Steward,     Officier    d'Academie, 
Author  of  "From  the  Breasts  of  the  Brave,"  etc. 

Demy  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  profusely  illustrated,  12/6  net. 

Mr.  Steward  weaves  into  the  romance  and  history  of  the  War  Medal 
technical  explanations  of  great  interest  to  the  student  and  collector 
as  well  as  to  the  general  reader.  From  the  inception  of  the  War  or 
Special  Service  Medal,  he  takes  his  readers  through  its  history  to  the 
present  day,  explaining  at  the  same  time  the  differences  between  the 
bonii-fide  and  the  fraudulent. 

WHO'S  WHO  IN  AMERICA,  1914-1915 

Edited  by  Albert  Nelson  Marquis. 
7i  X  5},  cloth  gilt,  3,000  pages,  21/-  net. 

A  biographical  dictionary  of  20,000  notable  living  men  and  women 
of  the  United  States.  The  American  Who's  Who,  a  biennial  publica- 
tion now  in  its  eighth  edition,  should  have  its  place  on  the  reference 
shelves  of  all  business  offices,  clubs,  hotels,  newspaper  offices,  public 
libraries,  and  similar  institutions. 

THE  CURE  FOR  POVERTY 

By  John  Calvin  Brown. 
Crown  Svo,  cloth  gilt,  5/-  net. 

Mr.  John  Calvin  Brown,  after  many  years  of  heavy  commercial 
experience  in  England,  in  the  United  States,  and  on  the  Continent, 
reviews  the  most  burning  National  reforms  of  the  British  Empire  and 
of  the  United  States.  This  narrative  is  made  good  reading  even  for 
the  non-student  of  national  and  industrial  affairs  by  the  very  large 
number  of  apposite  stories  interspersed  among  the  plain  arguments  of 
the  book,  so  that  from  cover  to  cover  it  reads  like  a  most  clearly  in- 
structive, yet  spicily  humorous,  after-dinner  speech. 

SHORT  CUTS  TO  FIRST  AID 

By  a  Metropolitan  Police  Surgeon  attached  to  the  Royal 
Army  Medical  Corps. 

reap  %vo  (6J  X  ^),  Id.  net. 

At  this  particular  time  when  thousands  of  active  men  have  been 
suddenly  uprooted  from  their  normal  life  to  serve  as  soldiers,  special 
constables,  and  in  other  corps,  the  need  is  strongly  felt  for  this  book 
of  Short  Cuts  to  First  Aid.  It  is  not  intended  for  students  or  experts, 
but  for  the  man  who  wants  to  be  ready  to  help  those  around  him,  and 
even,  if  necessary,  to  apply  bandages  to  minor  injuries  on  himself. 
England  is  training  men  to-day  at  double-quick  time,  and  this  book 
will  give  all  the  necessary  information  without  redundant  words  or 
waste  of  time. 

8 


CROQUET 

By  the  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Tollemache. 

Demy  8vo,  cloth  gill,  with  100  photographs  and  a  large 
coloured  plan  of  the  court,  10/6  net. 
This  work,  intended  both  for  the  novice  and  for  the  skilled  player, 
explains  in  clear  language  the  various  methods,  styles  and  shots  found 
after  careful  thought  and  practical  experiences  to  have  the  best  results. 
It  is  thoroughly  up-to-date,  and  includes,  besides  good  advice  on  the 
subject  of  "  breaks,"  a  treatise  on  the  Either  Ball  Game,  explaining 
how  to  play  it. 

THE    JOLLY    DUCHESS:     Harriot,    Duchess    of 
St.  Albans.     Fifty  Years'  Record  of  Stage  and 
Society  (1787-1837) 
By  Charles  E.  Pearce,  Author  of  "  Polly  Peachum," 

etc. 
Demy  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  fully  illustrated,  16/-  net. 
Mr.  Charles  E.  Pearce  tells  in  a  lively,  anecdotal  style  the  story  of 
Harriot  Mellon,  who  played  merry,  hoydenish  parts  before  the  foot- 
lights a  hundred  years  ago,  until  her  fortunes  were  suddenly  changed 
by  her  amazing  marriage  to  Thomas  Coutts,  the  banker  prince,  who 
died  a  few  years  later,  leaving  her  a  gigantic  fortune.  She  then 
married  the  Duke  of  St.  Albans. 

SIR  HERBERT  TREE  AND  THE  MODERN 
THEATRE  :    A  Discursive  Biography 
By  Sidney  Dark,  Author  of  ' '  The  Man  Who  Would 
not  be  King,"  etc. 

Demy  8ya,  cloth  gilt,  fully  illustrated,  10/6  net. 
Mr.  Sidney  Dark,  the  well-known  literary  and  dramatic  critic,  has 
written  a  fascinating  character-study  of  Sir  Herbert  Tree  both  as  actor 
and  as  man,  and  he  has  used  the  striking  personality  of  his  subject  as 
a  text  for  a  comprehensive  survey  and  criticism  of  the  modern 
English  stage  and  its  present  tendencies.  Mr.  Dark's  opinions  have 
always  been  distinctive  and  individual,  and  his  new  book  is  outspoken, 
witty,  and  brilliantly  expressed. 

THE  MASTER  PROBLEM 

By   James  Marchant,   F.R.S.   Ed.,   Author  of   "  Dr. 
Paton,"  and  editor  of  "  Prevention,"  etc.     With  an 
Introduction  by  the  Rev.  F.  B.  Meyer,  D.D. 
Crown  8vo,  cloth  gilt,  5/-  net. 
This  book  deals  with  the  social  evil,  its  causes  and  its  remedies. 
Necessarily,  the  writer  is  compelled  to  present  many  aspects  of  the 
case,  and  to  describe  persons  and  scenes  which  he  has  encountered, 
as  Director  of  the  National  Council  of  Public  Morals,  in  America,  India, 
Europe,  the  Colonies,  etc.  ;  the  overruling  object  of  the  book,  however, 
is  the  more  difficult  and  more  useful  task  of  discovering  the  root  causes 
of  this  vice  and  of  suggesting  lasting  remedies. 


THE  MARIE  TEMPEST  BIRTHDAY  BOOK 

Giving  an  extract  for  each  day  of  the  year  from  the 

various  parts  played  by  Aliss  Marie  Tempest. 
Demy  18 wo,  cloth  gilt,  with  an  introductory  appreciation 
and  9  portraits  in  photogravure,  1/6  net. 
Miss  Marie  Tempest  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most  popular  actresses 
of  the  English  stage.    She  has  created  for  herself  a  distinctive  character, 
into  which  is  weaved  much  of  her  own  personality,  and  the  charm  of 
that  personality  is  illustrated  by  these  happy  quotations  from  the 
parts  she  has  played.      The  illustrations,  show  her  at  various  periods 
in  her  theatrical  career,  while   the   introductory  appreciation  by  Mr. 
Sidney  Dark  is  especially  illuminating. 

A  GARLAND  OF  VERSE  FOR  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

Edited  by  Alfred  H.  Miles. 
q}j     Handsome  cloth  gilt,  2/6  net. 

A  collection  of  verse  for  children.  The  pieces,  selected  from  a  wide 
field,  are  graded  to  suit  age  and  classified  to  facilitate  reference,  and 
many  new  pieces  are  included  to  help  nature-study  and  interest 
children  in  collateral  studies.  Never  before  has  an  attempt  been 
made  to  cover  in  one  volume  such  a  wide  range  of  pieces  at  so  small 
a  price. 

THIS  IS  MY  BIRTHDAY 

By  Anita  Bartle.     With  an  introduction  by  Israel 

Zangwill. 
Handsomely  hound,  gilt  and  gilt  top,  766  pages,  2/6  net. 
Also  in  various  leather  bindings. 
This  is  a  unique  volume,  being  a  birthday-book  of  the  great,  living 
and  dead,  whether  poets,  arists,  philosophers,  statesmen,  warriors,  or 
novelists.     A  page  of  beautiful  and  characteristic  quotations  is  appro- 
priated to  each  name,  and  the  page  opposite  is  left  blank  for  the  filling 
in  of  new  names.     Everyone  likes  to  know  the  famous  people  who  were 
born  on  their  natal  day,  and  few  will  refuse  to  add  their  signatures  to 
such  a  birthday  book  as  this.      Mr.  Zangwill  hfis  written  a  charming 
introduction  to  the  book,  and  there  is  a  complete  index. 

STORIES  OF  THE  KAISER  AND  HIS  ANCESTORS 

By  Clare  Jerrold,  Author  of  "  The  Early  Court  of 
Queen  Victoria,"  and  "  The  Married  Life  of  Queen 
Victoria  "  etc. 
Crown  %vo,  cloth  gilt,  with  portraits,  2/6  net ;    paper,  2/- 
net. 
In  this  book  Mrs.  Clare  Jerrold  presents  in  anecdotal  fashion  in- 
cidents both  tragic  and  comic  in  the  career  of  the  Kaiser  Wilhelm 
and   his  ancestors.     The  frank  and   fearless  fashion  in  which    Mrs. 
Jerrold  has  dealt  with  events  in  her  earlier  books  will  pique  curiosity 
as  to  this  new  work,  in  wliich  she  shows  the  Kaiser  as  an  extraordinary 
example  of  heredity — most  of  his  wildest  vagaries  being  foreshadowed 
in  the  lives  and  doings  of  his  forebears. 

12 


A  NEW  SERIES  OF  RECITERS 

96   pages   large   4to,   double-columns,   clear  type  on  good 
paper,   handsome  cover  design  in  three  colours,   6d.  net. 
Also  in  cloth,   1/-  net. 

THE  FIRST  FAVOURITE  RECITER 

Edited  by  Alfred  H.  Miles.  Valuable  Copyright  and 
other  Pieces  by  Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  Sir  Edwin 
Arnold,  Austin  Dobson,  Sir  W.  S.  Gilbert,  Edmund 
Gosse,  Lord  Lytton,  Coulson  Kernahan,  Campbell 
Rae -Brown,  Tom  Gallon,  Artemus  Ward,  and  other 
Poets,  wits,  and  Humorists. 

Mr.  Miles'  successes  in  the  reciter  world  are  without  parallel.  Since 
he  took  the  field  in  1882  with  his  Al  Series,  he  has  been  continually 
scoring,  reaching  the  boundary  of  civilisation  with  every  hit.  For 
nearly  30  years  he  has  played  a  famous  game,  and  his  score  to  date  is 
a  million  odd,  not  out  I  The  secret  is,  he  captains  such  wonderful 
elevens,  and  places  them  with  so  much  advantage  in  the  field.  Who 
could  not  win  with  such  teams  as  those  named  above.  ? 

Uniform  with  the  above  in  Style  and  Price  V  ""l^^^^ 

THE  UP-TO-DATE  RECITER  T 

Edited  by  Alfred  H.  Miles.  Valuable  Copyright  and 
other  Pieces  by  great  Authors,  including  Hall  Caine, 
Sir  A.  Conan  Doyle,  Robert  Buchanan,  William 
Morris,  Christina  Rossetti,  Lord  Tennyson,  Robert 
Browning,  Mark  Twain,  Bret  Harte,  Max  Adeler,  and 
other  Poets  and  Humorists. 

*'  An  ideal  gift  for  your  girls  and  youths  for  Christmas.     It  is  just  as 
admirable  a  production  for  grown-ups,  and  many  a  pleasant  hour  in  the 
cold  evenings  can  be  spent  by  the  fire  with  '  The  Up-to-date  Reciter.* 
— Star. 

"  A  very  handy  collection  of  recitations  has  been  gathered  here  by 
Mr.  Alfred  H.  Miles.  The  Editor  has  aimed  at  including  poems  and 
prose  pieces  which  are  not  usually  to  be  found  in  volumes  of  recitations, 
as  well  as  a  few  of  the  old  favourites  .  .  .  The  grave  and  gay 
occasions  are  equally  well  provided  for.  A  sign  of  the  times  is  here,  too, 
shown  by  the  inclusion  of  such  pieces  as  '  Woman  and  Work  '  and 
*  Woman,'  both  from  the  chivalrous  pen  of  the  Editor." — The  Bookman, 

'*  A  marvellous  production  for  sixpence,  excellent  in  every  respect.'* 
— Colonial  Bookseller, 


BALLADS  OF  BRAVE  WOMEN.    Records  of  the 
Heroic  in  Thought,  Action  and  Endurance. 
By  Alfred  H.  Miles  and  other  writers. 
Large  crown  8vo,  red  limp,  1/-  net ;    cloth,  gilt,  1/6  net\ 
paste  grain,  gilt  (boxed),  3/-  net ;  Persian  yapp,  gilt  top 
(boxed),  4/-  net. 
"  Ballads  of  Brave  Women  "  is  a  collection  of  Poems  suitable  for 
recitation  at  women's  meetings  and  at  gatherings  and  entertainments 
of  a  more  general  character .    It s  aim  is  to  celebrate  the  bravery  of  women 
as  shown  in  the  pages  of  history,  on  the  field  of  war,  in  the  battle  of 
life,  in  the  cause  of  freedom,  in  the  service  of  humanity,  and  in  the 
face  of  death. 

The  subjects  dealt  with  embrace  Loyalty,  Patriotism,  In  War,  In 
Domestic  Life,  For  Love,  Self-Sacrifice,  For  Liberty,  Labour,  In 
Danger,  For  Honour,  The  Care  of  the  Sick,  In  Face  of  Death,  etc.,  by 
a  selection  of  the  world's  greatest  writers,  and  edited  by  Alfred  H. 
Miles. 

"  The  attention  which  everything  appertaining  to  the  woman's 
movement  is  just  now  receiving  has  induced  Mr.  Alfred  H.  Miles  to 
collect  and  edit  these  '  Ballads  of  Brave  Women.'  He  has  made  an 
excellent  choice,  and  produced  a  useful  record  of  tributes  to  woman's 
heroism  in  thought,  action  and  endurance." — Pall  Mall  Gazette. 

MY  OWN  RECITER 

Alfred  H.  Miles.  Original  Poems,  Ballads  and 
Stories  in  Verse,  Lyrical  and  Dramatic,  for  Reading 
and  Recitation.     Crown  Svo,  1/-  net. 

DRAWING-ROOM   ENTERTAINMENTS 

A  book  of  new  and  original   Monologues,   Duologues, 

Dialogues,  and  Playlets  for  Home  and  Platform  use. 

By  Catherine  Evelyn,  Clare  Shirley,  Robert  Overton, 

and  other  writers.     Edited  by  Alfred  H.   Miles. 

In  crown  Svo,  red  limp,  1/-  net ;    cloth  gilt,  1/6  net ; 

:^^        paste  grain,  gilt  (boxed),  3/-  net;    Persian  yapp,  gilt 

(boxed),  4/-  net. 

Extract  from  Editor''s  preface,  **  The  want  of  a  collection  of  short 

pieces  for  home  use,  which,  while  worthy  of  professional  representation 

shall  not  be  too  exacting  for  amateur  rendering,  and  shall  be  well 

within  the  limits  of  drawing-room  resources,  has  often  been  pressed 

upon  the  Editor,  and  the  difficulty  of  securing  such  pieces  has  alone 

delayed  his  issue  of  a  collection. 

**  Performances  may  be  given  in  drawing-rooms,  school  rooms,  and 
lecture  halls,  privately  or  for  charitable  purposes  unconditionally, 
except  that  the  authorship  and  source  must  be  acknowledged  on  any 
printed  programmes  that  may  be  issued,  but  permission  must  be 
previously  secured  from  the  Editor,  who,  in  the  interests  of  his  con- 
tributors reserves  all  dramatic  rights  for  their  performance  in  theatres 
and  music  halls  or  by  professionals  for  professional  purposes." 

16 


A    New    Series    of    Books    for   Boys    and    Girls 
by  ALFRED  H.  MILES. 

Editor  of   the    famous   "52  Stories"  Series. 

"  Alfred  H.  Miles  is  always  a  safe  guide  where  boys'  reading  is 
concerned. — Daily  Chronicle, 

"      ...     the   healthy   atmosphere   which   characterises   all   the 
books  of  Alfred  H.  Miles. — Lady's  Pictorial. 

In  large  crown  8vo,  handsome  cloth  gilt,  384  pages,  fully  illustrated,  Bl- 
each volume. 

THE  SWEEP  OF  THE  SWORD. 

A  Battle  Book  for  Boys.  Dedicated  by  special  permission  to 
Field-Marshall  Earl  Roberts,  V.C.  With  a  photogravure  frontis- 
piece, full-page  illustrations  of  world-famous  battle  pictures, 
printed  on  art  paper,  and  other  illustrations  in  the  text. 
Truth  :  "  Truly  a  stupendous  volume,  and  there  is  quality  as  well  as 
quantity  to  recommend  it." 

IN  THE  LION'S  MOUTH  : 

Fierce  Fights  with  Wild  men,  Wild  Animals  and  Wild  Nature. 
By  Clive  Fenn,  Theodore  Roosevelt,  Frank  R.  Stockton,  Ena 
Fitzgerald,   F.   W.   Calkins,   Rowland  Thomas  and  other  writers. 

WHERE  DUTY  CALLS  OR  DANGER : 

Records  of  Courage  and  Adventure  for  Girls.  By  Evelyn 
Everett-Green,  Grace  Stebbing,  Margaret  E.  Sangster,  Ena 
Fitzgerald,   E.  W.  Tomson,  F.  W.  Calkins  and  other  writers. 

'TWIXT  LIFE  AND  DEATH  on  Sea  and  Shore. 

A  Book  for  Boys. 

HEROINES  OF  THE  HOME  and  the  World  of  Duty. 

A  Book  for  Girls. 

A  BOOK  OF  BRAVE  BOYS  All  the  World  Over. 

A  BOOK  OF  BRAVE  GIRLS  At  Home  and  Abroad 

IN    THE   TEETH  OF  ADVENTURE  Up  and  Down 
the  World. 


THE  BOY'S  BOOK  of  Sports,  Pastimes,  Hobbies  and 
Amusements 

By  E.  Keble  Chatterton.    For  boys  of  the  ages  of  ten  to  seven- 
teen.    Illustrated.     Cloth  gilt,  5s. 
*'  It  is  something  in  the  nature  of  a  boy's  encyclopaedia — in  the 
brightest  sense  of  the  word." — The  Observer. 


THE  A.B.C.    SERIES 

In  Large  Crown  Svo,  each  volume  very  fully  illustrated 
in  half-tone  and  line,  price  6s.  net  each. 

THE  A.B.C.  OF  HERALDRY 

By   Guy  Cadogan  Rothery,   Author   of   "  Symbols, 

Emblems    and    Devices,"     etc.  ;     With     over     274 

illustrations  in  line  and  half-tone. 

This  book  traces  the  evolution  of  heraldry  from  its  origin  in  ancient 

tribal  totemism,  through  the  feudal  system,  subordinating  to  some 

extent,  the  purely  technical  details  to  the  romantic,  sociological  and 

artistic  aspects.      Nevertheless,  to  those  who  desire  a  handy  reference 

book  on  the  subject,  giving  information  readily  without  dullness,  it 

will  be  as  useful  as  it  will  be  to  those  who  only  seek  a  description  of  a 

subject  wrapped  in  history  and  romance. 

THE  A.B.C.  OF  THE  ENGLISH  CATHEDRALS 

By  W.  F.  Taylor,  Author  of  "The  Charterhouse  of 

London,"  etc.  ;    with  over  120  photographs  by  the 

Author. 

This  book,  including  both  an  historical  section  and  a  descriptive 

itinerary  to  each  cathedral,  deals  with  its  subject  broadly,  yet  with 

sufficient  detail  to  make  both  an  effective  guide-book  on  the  spot  and  a 

readable  record  for  study.     The  numerous  photographs  by  the  author, 

while   illustrating  the   essential   points   of  the   architecture,   portray 

excellently  the  beauty  of  the  old  buildings. 

TJLE  A.B.C.  OF  CHURCH  ARCHITECTURE 

'^'     By    Sidney    Heath,    Author    of     "Our     Homeland 
Churches,"  etc.  ;   with  60  pages  of  illustrations  from 
photographs  and  drawings. 
While  explaining  clearly  every  feature  of  the  different  architectural 
styles,  this  book  also  shows  in  what  way  historical,  religious  and  socio- 
logical events  and  ideas  influenced  the  theories  of  building  in  the 
different  centuries.     To  those  interested  in  architecture,  there  is  a 
constant  fascination  in  the  evolution  of  one  style  from  another,  and 
Mr.  Heath  has  put  many  illuminating  suggestions  into  his  book. 

THE  A.B.C.  OF  INDIAN  ART 

By  J.  F.  Blacker,  Author  of  "  The  A.B.C.  of  Japanese 
Art,"  etc.  ;  richly  illustrated. 
A  complete  survey  of  the  art  of  India,  forming  a  companion  volume 
to  "  The  A.B.C.  of  Japanese  Art."  Palaces,  temples,  and  tombs 
represent  the  architecture  ;  armour,  musical  instruments,  jewellery 
and  metal  work,  show  the  craftsmanship  ;  paintings  and  carvings  in 
wood  and  marble  are  carefully  dealt  with,  while  idols  in  stone,  wood, 
and  bronze  speak  of  the  inspiration  of  religion. 


THE  A.B.C.  DICTIONARY  OF  ARTISTS 

By  Frank  Rutter,  Curator  of  the  Leeds  Art  Gallery, 
a/'vT  and  Author  of  "  Rossetti/'  "  Whistler,"  etc.  ;  with 
many  illustrations. 
A  handy  work  of  reference,  containing  full  biographical  and  critical 
information  about  all  the  more  distinguished  painters,  sculptors, 
etchers,  black  and  white  draughtsmen,  etc.,  from  the  time  of  Giotto  to 
the  present  day.  The  book  is  profusely  illustrated,  a  special  feature 
being  made  of  portraits  of  famous  artists  painted  by  themselves. 

THE  A.B.C.  OF  MODERN  PROSE  QUOTATIONS  : 
From  Blake  to  Bergson. 
By   HoLBROOK  Jackson,   Author  of  "  Great  English 
Novelists,"  etc. 
At  once  a  fascinating  anthology  of  one  of  the  most  brilliant  centuries 
of  history,  and  a  useful  reference  volume, 

THE  A.B.C.  ABOUT  COLLECTING 

By  Sir  James  Yoxall,  M.P.     Third  Edition.       Fully 
illustrated. 
"  A  beginner  cannot  well  have  a  better  guide." — Outlook,      ^  ^^%»jr 

THE  A.B.C.  OF  JAPANESE  ART 

By  J.  F.  Blacker,  Author  of  "The  A.B.C.  of  Indian 
Art,"  etc.  ;   with  250  illustrations. 
*'  Valuable  information  ;    rich  in  beautiful  illustrations." 

— Dundee  Courier, 

THE  A.B.C.  OF  ARTISTIC  PHOTOGRAPHY 

By    A.    J.    Anderson.     Third   edition.     With    photo- 
gravure plates,  half-tone  and  line  illustrations. 
"  Profusely  illustrated  and  cleverly  written  :    well  worth  studying." 

— Manchester  Courier. 

THE    A.B.C.    OF    COLLECTING    OLD    ENGLISH 
POTTERY 

By  J.  F.  Blacker,  with  432  illustrations. 
"  Mr.  Blacker's  pages  are  full  of  knowledge." — Bookman. 

THE    A.B.C.    OF    COLLECTING    OLD    ENGLISH 
CHINA 

By  J.  F.  Blacker,  Author  of  ''  The  A.B.C.  of  Indian 
Art,"  etc.  ;  with  numerous  line  and  64  pp.  half-tone 
illustrations.  ,, 

*•  What  to  look  for,  how  to  know  it,  and  what  to  avoid. 

— Daily  Express. 

21 


New  Six  Shilling  Novels — continued 

FANTOMAS 

By  Pierre  Souvestre  and  Marcel  Allain. 

The  authors  of  "  Fantomas  "  have  created  a  character  that  catches 
the  imagination  of  the  world.  To  find  Fantomas,  "  the  genius  of 
crime,"  to  know  whether  he  is  an  individual  or  the  directing  spirit  of 
a  highly  organised  company,  is  the  life-work  of  a  detective,  Juve,  a 
character  possessing  as  much  actuality  as  Sherlock  Holmes  or  Le  Coq, 
or  any  of  the  famous  figures  in  the  fictional  annals  of  crime.  And 
when  these  two  men  are  set  against  each  other  — Fantomas  with 
his  daring  aud  his  cleverly  planned  and  executed  criminal 
operations,  and  Juve  with  his  deductive  reasoning  and  his 
dogged,  silent,  weasel-like  pursuit  of  the  man  whom  it  is  his  fixed 
intention  to  run  down — we  have  a  story  of  imaginative  ingenuity  and 
strength  that  will  rank  with  the  best  achievements  of  Gaboriau. 

SCHOOL   FOR   LOVERS 

By  E.  B.  DE  Rend  ON  ^•^^^'mT**. 

Love-making  as  an  art  is  the  theme  of  this  novel  in  which  the  Latin 
spirit  is  revealed  in  its  relation  to  the  sexes.  With  scarcely  an  ex- 
ception, this  particular  expression  of  the  Latin  spirit  in  novels  is  only 
known  to  English  readers  through  the  medium  of  translations,  but  in 
a  "  School  for  Lovers  "  we  have  a  novel  written  in  English  by  a  Latin 
on  a  vital  human  question — one  as  old  as  the  first  man  and  woman, 
and  as  perennially  new  as  the  dawn  of  To-Day.  Seeing  that  the  bonds 
of  brotherhood  between  the  Anglo-Saxon  and  the  Latin  races  grow 
daily  more  close,  is  being  more  and  more  deeply  realised  in  the  storm 
and  stress  of  the  world  struggle  into  which  we  have  been  plunged  by 
an  unscrupulous  foe,  the  author  is  convinced  that  all  Anglo-Saxons 
will  feel  more  and  more  inclined  to  open  their  hearts  to  this  Latin 
spirit  as  manifested  in  sex  relations  ;  that  at  least  they  will  perceive 
that,  though  sometimes  too  frank  in  expression,  none  the  less  is  it 
essentially  good-hearted,  chivalrous  and  spiritual.  Love  Romantic 
is  the  Latin's  watchword,  not  Love  Sentimental.  The  latter  form  of 
love  is,  more  often  than  not,  tainted  with  hypocrisy,  and  is  at  bottom 
hard  and  self-seeking  and  brutal.  In  a  "  School  for  Lovers  "  the 
course  of  a  Love  Romantic  is  traced  to  its  happy  ending. 

THE  WOMAN  WHO  LOOKED  BACK 

By  M.  Hamilton,  Author  of  "  Cut  Laurels,"  "  Mrs. 
Brett,"  etc. 

This  novel  tells  of  a  husband  and  wife  who  love  each  other  deeply 
but  quite  undemonstratively  until  an  unexpected  discovery  opens  a 
way  for  deceit  to  come  between.  This  is  a  story  that  will  make  a  strong 
appeal  to  women,  for  it  is  written  with  deep  insight  into  character 
and  the  power  of  emotion. 

24 


New  Six  Shilling  Novels — continued 

CONCERNING  A  VOW 

By  Rhoda  Broughton,  Author  of  "  Cometh  Up  as  a 
Flower,"  "  Between  Two  Stools/'  etc. 
Threads  of  comedy  and  tragedy  are  delightfully  mingled  in  this  new 
novel  by  Miss  Rhoda  Broughton,  who  still  stands  alone  amongst 
English  novelists  for  her  own  especial  qualities.  "  Concerning  a  Vow," 
the  story  of  a  girl  who  has  vowed  never  to  marry  the  man  she  adores, 
is  rich  with  Miss  Broughton's  inexhaustible  vivacity,  and  will  delight 
her  immense  company  of  readers  by  its  humour  and  freshness. 

THE  GATES  OF  DOOM 

By  Rafael  Sabatini,  Author  of  "  The  StrolHng  Saint," 
"  The  Lion's  Skin,"  etc. 
A  romance  of  love.  loyalty  and  intrigue  in  the  days  of  George  I. 
A  mystery  surrounds  an  agent  of  the  exiled  Stuarts,  whose  adventures 
are  described  with  a  dash  that  makes  the  book  memorable  among 
modern  historical  novels.  The  story  moves  swiftly,  the  rush  and 
turmoil  of  events  being  interwoven  with  a  love  story  as  sweet  and 
romantic  as  any  that  Mr.  Sabatini  has  yet  given  us. 

THE  FLUTE  OF  ARCADY 

By  Kate  Horn,  Author  of  "  Frivole,"  etc. 
A  lightly  written  story  of  a  young  couple  who  conspire  together  to 
secure  their  own  happiness  by  bringing  romance  into  the  lives  of  their 
unwilling  guardians.  The  scene  is  laid  chiefly  in  Paris  and  Versailles, 
where  the  heroine,  Nina  Menzies  has  been  brought  up  in  a  convent. 
The  secret  of  Miss  Kate  Horn's  popularity  is  the  brightness  and  humour 
of  her  clever  character-drawing. 

ORANGE    LILY 

By  L.  T.  Meade,  Author  of  *'  Elizabeth's  Prisoner," 
"  The  Passion  of  Kathleen  Duveen,"  "  Ruffles,"  etc. 
A  fascinating  Irish  girl,  who  has  led  a  happy-go-lucky  life  on  her 
father's  estate,  with  little  feminine  supervision,  is  placed  under  the 
care  of  her  match-making  aunt,  who  succeeds  in  marrying  her  secretly 
to  the  heir  to  a  large  property.  Her  father  has  other  views,  and 
complications  ensue.  Irish  wit  and  humour  abound,  and  many 
amusing  situations  occur  before  the  happy  conclusion. 

TAINTED  GOLD 

By  H.  Noel  Williams,  Author  of  "A  Ten  Pound 
Penalty,"  "Five  Fair  Sisters,"  etc. 
Gerald  Carthew,  a  young  barrister,  suddenly  finds  himself  the 
subject  of  a  conspiracy  which  repeatedly  threatens  his  life.  While 
the  net  is  drawn  closely  round  him  he  succeeds  in  tracing  the  motive  of 
the  conspirators,  and  in  a  long  series  of  thrilling  adventures  wins  his 
way  to  safety.  The  reader  will  follow  with  fixed  attention  the  gradual 
elucidation  of  this  clever  mystery,  culminating  as  it  does  in  a  startling 
denoument. 

25 


New  Six  Shilling  Novels — continued 

MISS  BILLY 

By  Eleanor  H.  Porter,  Author  of  "Pollyana  .  .  . 
The  Glad  Book,"  etc. 
"  Billy  "  is  an  impulsive,  warm-hearted  girl  of  eighteen  who  quite 
unknowingly  upsets  the  quiet  and  dignity  of  a  household  of  three 
bachelors,  whose  life  had  hitherto  been  strictly  ordinary  and  unevent- 
ful. The  story  has  many  amusing  situations  and  a  refreshing  romance 
which  endears  Billy,  as  well  as  her  three  crusty,  but  good-hearted 
friends,  to  the  reader.  There  is  an  immense  fascination  about  the 
brightness  of  the  story.     It  is  a  book  with  a  sparkle. 

RODING  RECTORY 

By  Archibald  Marshall,  Author  of  "  Exton  Manor," 
"The  Honour  of  the  Clintons,"  etc. 
**  Roding  Rectory,"  with  its  view  of  life  in  a  small  English  country 
town,  is  undoubtedly  Mr.  Marshall's  best  novel,  and  will  even  bear 
comparison  with  the  "  Barchester  "  Series  of  Anthony  Trollope.  It 
presents  a  most  dramatic  situation  in  Dr.  French's  defence  against  the 
antagonism  of  the  truculent  Gosset  and  the  scheming  Miss  Budd  in 
bringing  to  light  a  fault  of  the  Rector's  youth  and  promoting  a  cam- 
paign of  jealousy  against  him. 

THE  DOUBLE  HOUSE 

By  E.  Everett-Green,  Author  of  "  Barbed  Wire," 
"  Clive  Lorimer's  Marriage,"  etc. 
An  old,  rambling  manor-house  in  Somersetshire,  is  shared  by  Colonel 
Colquhoun,  who  has  resigned  his  commission  after  being  wrongly 
suspected  of  murder,  and  the  beautiful  Lois  Enderby.  The  two  soon 
become  attached,  but  each  is  involved  in  a  net  of  mystery,  and  not 
until  these  have  been  unravelled  can  they  reach  happiness  together. 

A  "  WATER-FLY'S  "  WOOING  :  A  Drama  of  Black 

and  White  Marriages 

By  Annesley  Kenealy,  Author  of  "  Thus  Saith  Mrs. 
Grundy,"  "  The  Poodle -Woman,"  etc. 

The  novels  of  INIiss  Annesley  KeneaJy  have  always  a  good  deal  of 
thought  behind  them,  and  are  founded  on  subjects  of  considerable 
moment.  In  "  A  '  Water-Fly's  '  Wooing,"  she  has  written  a  vigorous 
tale  of  intense  human  interest.  As  the  sub-title  implies  it  deals  with 
the  ever-present  race  problem,  and  presents  it  in  a  way  that  will  make 
a  wide  appeal. 

SWORD  AND  CROSS 

By  Silas  K.  Hocking,  Author  of  "  Her  Benny,"  etc. 
"  Sword  and  Cross  "  is  the  story  of  a  brilliant  young  minster  who 
takes  a  firm  stand  upon  a  matter  of  public  enthusiasm.  His  congregation 
falls  away,  his  acquaintances  publicly  shun  him,  he  is  hooted  in  the 
streets,  and  his  windows  are  stoned  by  the  mob.  The  story  is  one  of  the 
most  enthralling  that  this  popular  novelist  has  ever  written. 


New  Six  Shilling  Novels — continued 

THE  UNDYING  RACE  .    iIIT 

By  Rene  Milan. 

Ren6  Milan  is  a  French  torpedo-boat  commander,  at  present 
serving  in  the  Flying  Corps  of  the  French  navy.  Like  his  brother 
officer,  "  Pierre  Loti,"  he  wields  the  pen  as  well  as  the  sword.  His 
novel  "  The  Undying  Race,"  which  has  had  a  splendid  success  in 
France,  is  based  on  the  survival  of  a  family  from  very  early  Tartar 
days  down  to  quite  modern  times.  The  story  is  unhesitatingly  recom- 
mended as  a  book  of  wonderful  interest  and  originality. 

LITTLE  MADAME  CLAUDE 

By  Hamilton  Drummond,  Author  of  *'  Shoes  of  Gold," 
:.  "The  Winds  of  God,"  etc. 

This  story  centres  round  the  struggle  between  a  man  and  a  woman 
for  possession  of  Little  Madame  Claude,  the  daughter  of  Louis  XII.  of 
France  and  Anne  of  Brittany.  She  is  the  prize  of  a  deep  political 
intrigue  which,  although  waged  in  secret,  goes  keenly  and  bitterly  to 
its  end. 

PASSION  AND  FAITH 

By  Dorothea  Gerard,  Author  of  "  The  City  of 
Enticement,"  "  The  Waters  of  Lethe,"  etc. 
This  vivid  story  depicts  the  conflict  between  passion  and  faith  in 
the  soul  of  Marion  Escott,  a  generous  but  headstrong  woman  whose 
love  for  the  man  she  should  marry  is  challenged  by  the  tribunal  of  her 
faith.  The  struggle  wages  with  varying  fortunes  down  to  the  issue, 
which  is  reached  with  this  author's  usual  sympathy  and  strength. 

THE  SAILS  OF  LIFE  ^irr  0> 

By  Cecil  Adair,  Author  of  "  Gabriers  Garden,"  etc. 

This  novel  tells  the  life-story  of  a  young  clergyman  in  an  East  End 
parish,  who  works  on  lines  of  his  own  and  finds  a  lack  of  sympathy 
from  those  outside.  A  young  cousin,  Molly  Rutland,  comes  to  take  a 
deep  interest  in  his  work,  but  he  goes  abroad  and  there  meets  the 
woman  of  his  love.  He  finds,  however,  that  she  cannot  share  his  life 
in  East  London,  and  so  his  love-problem  is  worked  out. 

LADY  VARLEY 

By  Derek  Vane,  Author  of  **  The  Secret  Door,"  etc. 

f  A  character  study  of  two  men  and  two  women  brought  together  in 
a  lonely  country  house  by  the  mysterious  death  of  another  man  in  a 
London  flat.  Among  them  is  hidden  the  secret  of  the  mystery,  and  the 
reader  is  kept  on  the  tip-toe  of  expectation  as  one  after  another  is 
threatened  with  exposure.     A  good,  animated  story. 

27 


New  Six  Shilling  Novels — continued 

THE  INK-SLINGER 

By  "  Rita,"  Author  of  "  Jill— All-Alone/'  ''  A  Grey 
Life,'"  etc.,  etc. 
"  Rita's  "  hero,  "the  Ink-slinger,"  is  an  erratic  genius,  trying  hard  to 
make  a  living  by  his  pen  for  the  support  of  a  patient  child,  crippled  by 
bis  own  action.  His  struggles  with  a  besetting  temptation.,  his  mis- 
fortunes, his  adoration  for  the  "  good  genius  "  of  his  life,  and  his  final 
conquest  and  happiness,  are  described  in  a  novel  of  intense  interest. 

THE|HERO  OF  URBINO 

By  May  Wynne,   Author  of  "The   Silent   Captain*?' 
"  The  Destiny  of  Claude,"  etc. 

A  tale  of  the  Duchy  of  Montselto  early  in  the  sixteenth  century, 
when  Cesare  Borgia  exercised  all  the  craft  for  which  he  was  famous  to 
wrest  this  rich  state  from  its  hereditary  princes.  The  adventures  of 
the  Duke  Grindobaldo  in  escaping  with  only  two  companions  to  safety, 
together  with  a  romantic  love-story,  form  the  theme  of  a  novel  set 
in  one  of  the  most  turbulent  and  brilliant  periods  of  Italian  history. 

A  GENTLEWOMAN  OF  FRANCE 

By  Rene  Boylesve,  Author  of  "  A  House  on  the  Hill," 
etc. 
This  story,  although  quite  unlike  the  typical  French  novel,  was 
crowned  by  the  Academy  and  attained  great  popularity  on  the  Con- 
tinent. It  is  the  story  of  a  young  woman  who  makes  a  marriage  of 
convenience  and  then,  meeting  the  man  whom  she  would  have  wished 
to  make  her  husband,  stands  firm  in  all  trials  and  temptations.  In 
simple,  direct  fashion  she  tells  her  story,  and  it  rings  extraordinarily 
true. 

THE  CREEPING  TIDES 

By  Kate  Jordan. 

The  scene  of  "  The  Creeping  Tides  "  is  laid  in  a  quiet,  old-built 
**  backwater  "  in  one  of  the  busiest  parts  of  a  foreign  city.  An  English 
soldier,  concealing  a  shattered  reputation,  meets  a  young  girl  also 
harassed  by  dread  of  detection,  and  this  strong  and  appealing  novel 
tells  how  together  they  face  the  creeping  tides  of  exposure  and  reach 
peace  and  safety. 

THE  GREAT  MIRACLE  .j    ,..  , 

By  J.  P.  Vanewords.  ^    ^. 

The  hero  of  this  novel  becomes  possessed  of  a  spell,  wliich  confers 
on  its  holder  immunity  from  death,  pain  or  restraint.  The  effect  of 
this  phenomenon  on  his  puzzled  contemporaries  in  the  twentieth 
century,  and  how  a  reluctant  and  incredulous  world  treated  it,  are 
described  in  a  story  of  adventure  which  leads  through  prison,  law-court, 
battleship,  and  palace  to  its  denoument. 


New  Six  Shilling  Novels — continued 

THE  HOUSE  OF  MANY  MIRRORS 

By  Violet  Hunt,  Author  of  "The  Doll,"  "The 
Celebrity's  Daughter,"  etc. 
Alfred  Pleydell,  a  charming  and  artistic  person  with  very  little 
capacity  for  earning  money,  marries  against  the  wishes  of  his  uncle,  a 
millionaire  collector  of  old  furniture  and  antique  mirrors,  and  finds 
himself  disinherited.  How  Rosamund,  his  wife,  by  what  amounts  to 
effacing  herself,  succeeds  in  gaining  for  her  husband  his  uncle's  in- 
heritance and  the  House  of  Many  Mirrors  is  the  theme  of  Miss  Violet 
Hunt's  new  story. 

THISTLES  :   A  Study  of  the  Artistic  Temperament 
By  CoRALiE  Stanton  and  Heath  Hosken,  Authors  of 
"The  Swelling  of  Jordan,"  etc. 
A  strong  dramatic  novel  of  modern  life,  in  which  mysterious  Chinese 
conspirators  lead  the  way  through  a  maze  of  exciting  incidents.     The 
adventures  of  the  hero,  threatened,  captured,  and  escaping,  will  be 
followed  with  zest  by  all  lovers  of  a  thrilling  story.     These  popular 
collaborators  are  here  at  their  best  in  a  novel  full  of  rapid  action. 

ON   DESERT   ALTARS 

""        Norma  Lorimer,  Author  of  "  A  Wife  out  of  Egypt,"  etc. 

Miss  Lorimer,  with  characteristic  courage  and  delicacy,  has  tackled 
another  elemental  problem.  A  woman  finds  that  the  only  way  to  get 
the  husband  whom  she  adores  out  of  the  swamps  of  the  Gold  Coast, 
which  are  killing  him  with  fever,  and  to  find  him  work  by  her  side  in 
London,  is  to  receive  for  a  few  weeks  the  visits  of  a  great  financier,  who 
is  passionately  fond  of  her,  but  whom  she  detests.  The  husband  comes 
home  and  recovers  his  health,  but  eventually  discovers  what  his  wife 
has  done. 

Once  more  Miss  Lorimer  has  given  us  a  very  human  woman  wrestling 
with  her  longing  for  a  larger  life. 

THE  HOUR  OF  CONFLICT 
u       By  A.  Hamilton  Gibbs. 

The  love-story  of  Everard,  a  young  Oxonian,  and  a  pretty  French 
girl,  Toinette,  in  a  delightful  little  French  watering-place.  It  is 
admirably  written,  it  shows  a  real  knowledge  of  life  and  human  nature, 
and  it  contains  several  studies  of  character  of  unusual  excellence.  It 
is  a  clever  piece  of  work,  which  may  be  described  as  "  a  story  of  passion, 
remorse,  and  atonement." 

A  WIFE  OUT  OF  EGYPT 

By  Norma  Lorimer,  Author  of  "  The  Second  Woman," 
"  By  The  Waters  of  Germany,"  etc. 
A  beautiful  and  gifted  girl,  half  English,  half-Syrian,  after  education 
in  England  returns  to  Egypt  and  finds  that  she — as  a  Syrian — has  no 
social  status.  She  is  soon  in  conflict  with  her  very  English  soldier 
lover,  whose  place  is  afterwards  taken  by  a  man  less  squeamish  in 
matters  merely  social. 

A  thoroughly  good  Egyptian  romance. 


ONE   SHILLING   NET   NOVELS 

In  Crown  Svo,  illustrated  wrappers,  1/  -  net  each. 

THE  CONSORT  (4th  edition),  by  Mrs.  Everard  Cotes  (Sara  Jeanbttb  Duncan). 
THE  CAREER  OF  BEAUTY  DARLING  (13th  edition),  by  Dolf  Wyixardb. 

THE    WOMAN-HUNTER  (5th  edition),  by  Arabella  Kenealy. 

BETWEEN    TWO    STOOLS  (6th  edition),  by  Rhoda  Broughton. 

THE  THREE  ANARCHISTS  (7th  ediUon),  by  Mrs.  Stepney  Rawson. 


the;  widow — To  Say  Nothing  of  the  Man  (3rd  edition)      Helen  Rowland 
THOROUGHBRED  (2nd  edition)  Francis  Dodsvvorth 

THE  SPEI.I.  OF  THE  JUNGI^E  (2nd  edition)  Alice  Perrin 

THE  SINS  OF  SOCIETY  (Drury  I^ne  Novels)  (2nd  edition)         Cecil  Raleigh 
THE  MARRIAGES  OF  MAYFAIR  (ditto)  (2nd  edition)       E  Keble  Chatterton 


A  TEN  POUND  PENAI^TY  (2nd  edition) 

A  PROFESSIONAI,  RIDER  (2nd  edition) 

THE  DEVII,  IN  I^ONDON  (2nd  edition) 

FATAI,  THIRTEEN  (2nd  edition) 

BROTHER  ROGUE  AND  BROTHER  SAINT 

THE  DEATH  GAIMBLE 

THE  MYSTERY  OF  ROGER  BUXI.OCK 

BARDEI<YS,  THE  MAGNIFICENT  (4th  edition) 

BHI.ICKS  (2nd  edition) 

THE  CABINET  MINISTER'S  WIFE 

THE  DREAM— AND  THE  WOMAN  (2nd  edition) 

THE  GARDEN  OF  I,IFE  (2nd  edition) 

DR.  PHIIyl^IPS  :    A  Maida-Vale  Idyll  (3rd  edition) 

TROPICAL  TAI.es   (8th  edition) 

A  BABE  IN  BOHEMIA  (12th  edition) 

YOUNG  NICK  AND  OI.D  NICK  (3rd  edition) 

THE  CHEERFUI,  KNAVE  (5th  edition) 

THE  MYSTERY  OF  REDMARSH  FARM  (3rd  edition) 

THE  ARTISTIC  TEMPERAMENT  (4th  edition) 

IN  FEAR  OF  A  THRONE  (3rd  edition) 

THE  RIDING  MASTER  (7th  edition) 

IKYING    I.IPS  (5th  edition) 

THE  RED  FI,EUR-DE-IvYS  (2nd  edition) 

THE    PERFIDIOUS    WEI.SHMAN    (10th    edition) 

AMERICA— THROUGH  ENGI^ISH  EYES  (2nd  edition) 

THE  UNSPEAKABI^E  SCOT  (117th  thousand) 

I,OVEI/Y  WOMAN  (98th  thousand) 


H.  Noel  Williams 

Mrs.  Edward  Kennard 

Geo.  R.  Sims 

William  Le  Queux 

Tom  Gallon 

Geo.  R.  Sims 

Tom  Gallon 

Rafael  Sabatini 

A.  St.  John  Adcock 

Geo.  R.  Sims 

Tom  Gallon 

Kate  Horn 

Frank  Danby 

Dolf  Wyllarde 

Frank  Danby 

S.  R.  Crockett 

E.  Keble  Howard 

Archibald  Marshall 

Jane  Wardlb 

R.  Andom 

Dolf  Wyllardb 

William  I,e  Queux 

May  Wynne 

"  Draig  Glas  " 

"  Rita  " 

T.  W.  H.  Croslanb 

T.  W.  H.  Crosland 


sa 


Stanley  Paul's  "Cleartype"  Sixpenny  Series 

In  large  Demy  8vOj  with  Pictorial  Cover, 


158 

154 
153 
152 
151 
150 
149 

148 

146 

145 

144 

143 

142 

141 

140 

139 

138 

67 

66 

65 

64 

63 

62 

61 

60 

59 

58 

57 

56 

55 

54 

53 

52 

51 

50 

49 

48 

47 

46 

45 

44 


SIDELIGHTS  ON  THE  COURT  OF  FRANCE 

Lieut  .-Col.  Andrew  C.  P.  Haggard,  d.s.o. 


THE  SNAKE  GIRL 

THE  FREE  MARRIAGE 

CLIVE    LORIMER'S    MARRIAGE 

THE    DESTINY    OF    CLAUDE 

THE  LADY  OF  THE  BUNGALOW 

BROTHER    ROGUE    AND    BROTHER 


THE    CHEERFUL    KNAVE 

MAGGIE    OF    MARGATE 

SUSAN    AND    THE    DUKE 

THE    DEVIL    IN    LONDON 

ALL    SORTS 

RUFFLES 

THE    WHITE    OWL 

THE    DOLL 

DR.    PHILLIPS 

THAT    IS    TO    SAY— 

MY    LORD    CONCEIT 

ASENATH    OF    THE    FORD 

FAUSTINE 

CORINNA 

THE    LAIRD    O'    COCKPEN 

THE    CITY    OF    ENTICEMENT 

EXOTIC    MARTHA 

HONOUR'S    FETTERS 

TOLD    IN    THE    TWILIGHT 

GOLDEN  DESTINY 

LOVE,    THE    CONQUEROR 

ENA'S    COURTSHIP 

A  LOVER  AT  LARGE 

BY    THE    WATER'S    EDGE 

THE    LION'S    SKIN 

MULBERRIES    OF    DAPHNE 

SPELL    OF    THE    JUNGLE 

REVENGE 

LONG    HAND 

SECOND    ELOPEMENT 


THE 

THE 

RED 

THE 

THE 

THE    MYSTERY    OF    ROGER 

EDELWEISS 

ONLY    AN    ACTRESS 

THE    APPLE    OF    EDEN 


Charles  E.  Pearce 

Keighley  Snowden 

E.  Everett-Green 

May     Wynne 

E.  Everett- Green 

SAINT 

Tom  Gallon 

Keble  Howard 

Gabrielle  Wodnil 

Kate  Horn 

Geo.  R.  Sims 

DoLF  Wyllarde 

L.  T.  Meade 

Kate  Horn 

Violet  Hunt 

Frank  Danby 

"  Rita 

"  Rita 

"  Rita 

"  Rita 

'  Rita 

"  Rita 

Dorothea  Gerard 

Dorothea  Gerard 

May  Wynne 

P.  Quinton  Ray 

P.  Quinton  Ray 

P.  Quinton  Ray 

P.  Quinton  Ray 

P.  Quinton  Ray 

P.  Quinton  Ray 

Rafael  Sabatini 

Kate  Horn 

Alice  Perrin 

Charles    E.  Pearce 

Sir  William  Magnay 

Flowerdew 


BULLOCK        Tom  Gallon 

"  Rita  " 

"  Rita  " 

E.  Temple  Thurston 


{List  continued  on  next  page]. 


81 


Stanley  Paul's  "Cleartype"   Sixpenny    Series — (con.) 
In  large  Demy  8vo,  with  Pictorial  Covers. 

[List  continued  from  previous  page], 

42  THE   DREAM— AND    THE    WOMAN                     Tom  Gallon 

41  LOVE    BESIEGED                                            Charles  E.  Pearce 

40  A    BENEDICK    IN    ARCADY                   Halliwell  Sutcliffe 

39  THE    JUSTICE    OF    THE    KING            Hamilton  Drummond 

38  THE    MAN    IN    POSSESSION                                            "Rita" 

37  A    WILL    IN    A    WELL                                   E.  Everett-Green 

36  EDWARD    AND    I    AND    MRS.    HONEYBUN 

Kate  Horn 

35  PRISCILLA    OF    THE    GOOD    INTENT 

Halliwell  Sutcliffe 

34  FATAL    THIRTEEN                                         William  Le  Queux 

33  A    STRUGGLE    FOR    A    RING                       Charlotte  Brame 

32  A    SHADOWED    LIFE                                        Charlotte  Brame 

31  THE    MYSTERY    OF    COLDE    FELL           Charlotte  Brame 

30  A    WOMAN'S    ERROR                                       Charlotte  Brame 

29  CLARIBEL'S    LOVE    STORY                           Charlotte  Bra»ie 

28  AT    THE    ELEVENTH    HOUR                       Charlotte  Brame 

27  LOVE'S    MASK                                    Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

26  THE    WOOING    OF    ROSE             Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

25  WHITE    ABBEY                                 Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

24  HEART    OF    HIS    HEART                               Madame  Albanesi 

23  THE    WONDER    OF    LOVE                            Madame  Albanesi 

22  CO-HEIRESS                                                         E.  Everett-Green 

21  THE  EVOLUTION   OF   KATHARINE     E.  Temple  Thurston 

20  THE    LOVE    OF    HIS    LIFE          Effie  A.     laide  Rowlands 

19  A    CHARITY    GIRL                          Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

18  THE    HOUSE    OF    SUNSHINE     Effif    Vdelaide  Rowlands 

17  DARE    AND    DO                                Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

16  BENEATH    A    SPELL                      Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

15  THE  MAN  SHE  MARRIED            Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

14  THE    MISTRESS    OF    THE    FARM 

Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

13  LITTLE    LADY    CHARLES            Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

12  A    SPLENDID    DESTINY                Effie  Adelaide  Rowlands 

11  CORNELIUS                                       Mrs.  Henry  de  la  Pasture 

10  TRAFFIC                                                           E.  Temple  Thurston 

9  ST.    ELMO                                                 Augusta  Evans  Wilson 

8  INDISCRETIONS                                                   Cosmo  Hamilton 

7  THE    TRICKSTER                                                      G.   B.    Burgin 

6  THE    CITY    OF    THE    GOLDEN    GATE 

E.  Everett-Green 

5  SHOES    OF    GOLD                                        Hamilton  Drummond 

4  THE    ADVENTURES    OF    A    PRETTY    WOMAN                  .^ 

Florence  Warden 

3  TROUBLED    WATERS                                               Headon  Hill 

2  THE    HUMAN    BOY    AGAIN                              Eden  Philpotts 

1  STOLEN   HONEY                                    Ada  &  DvPMiv  James 


■A  ^- 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW 


RENEWED  BOOKS  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  IMMEDIATE 
RECALL 


LIBRARY,  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  DAVIS 

Book  Slip-70m-9,'65(F715l84)458 


N2  403163 

Mott,   E.S, 
Cakes  &  ale. 


TX731 
m6 

1913 


LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 

DAVIS 


