'yKP|AW 


)dAJX.   U<:^^    Mui^, 


(qOa^S  c^      ^  UuS^ 


BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
LIBRARY 


(Take,  (Lanb^ 

anb 

Culinary  (Trinkks. 


'7X  (tontfianlon  to 
>S>^at  to  (Took  ttit6  How  to  (Took  'it. 


(Mrs.   W.  A.  Johnson.) 

'!!^ut!)or  of 
"^M  to  (Took  aii6  3fow  to  Cook  3t;* 


I  '  'T 


1912 


PENTECOSTAL  PUBLISHING  CO. 
PUBLISHERS. 
LOUISVILLE.   K.Tf. 


COPyRIQHTED  1912   BY 

MRS     W.  A.  JOHNSON 

PARIS,    KY. 


^l)e  !Sook« 


vJ*  q5*  *^  <«5^ 

Thi8  little  book  is  a  companion  to  '"What  to  Cook 
and  How  to  Cook  It."  For  the  sake  of  convenience 
some  general  rules  and  proportions  are  given.  A  few  re- 
ceipts will  be  found  in  the  first  four  or  five  chapters  to 
serve  as  a  guide  in  utilizing  the  general  information 
•under  the  head  of  ^''Culinary  Crincles.'' 

The  receipts  for  cake  decorations  and  candy  are  full 
and  explicit,  made  plain  enough  for  the  most  inex- 
perienced to  attempt  and  succeed  \vith. 


T)e6lcate6  to 
ytiy!  Mlol^er  anb  "2)au3^ter5» 


(Tulinar^  (Trinkks. 

^^%  t^f  x^i  ^* 

'Culinary  Cxinkleg  consist  in  shaping,  cooking  to  a 
nicety,  arranging  and  garnishing,  observing  always  the 
best  way  to  serve  in  order  to  please  the  eye  and  invite 
the  appetite.  Trimming  of  joints  of  meaits  and  chops. 
Croquettes,  cutlets  and!  etc.,  evenly  and  uniformly 
shaped.  Moulding  of  loaves  of  bread,  shaping  rolls, 
biscuits,  sticks,  twists  and  crescents,  making  them  not 
tco  large  or  too  small  but  of  uniform  size  and  shape, 
serving  on  a  plate,  dish  or  platter  to  suit  the  article 
served,  cooking  vegetables  to  retain  as  far  as  possible 
their  natural  shape  and  color.  Congealed  dishes  mould- 
ed in  pretty  attractive  forms  and  served  with  a  gar- 
nish that  blends  well  in  appearance  and  taste,  and  so 
on  through  th^  whole  catalogue  of  dishes,  observing  al- 
ways the  beauty  and  attractiveness  of  the  cutting,  shap- 
ing, cooking,  garnishing  and  serving.  With  the  use 
of  a  good  cook  book  giving  explicit  directions  of  how 
to  prepare  food  and  right  proportions  that  can  be  ap- 
plied to  all  food  materials,  a  table  of  weights  and 
measures,  a  list  of  garnishes  under  each  chapter,  one 
chould  be  able  to  find  a  wide  field  for  artistic  work. 

With  a  little  experience,  one  thing  suggests  another 
until  you  no  longer  depend  upon  any  one  particular 
form,  shape  or  garnish  but  individuality  will  soon  be 
developed  and  the  work  become  fascinatiing  and  exhaus- 
tive. 


(Tontents 

^w  ^*  ^?*  ^» 

CHAPTER  I. 

(Pages  7-28.) 

Garnishes,  and  how  to  use  them. 
Table  of  Weights  and  Measures. 

CHAPTER  II. 

(Pages  29-46.) 

Soups — Breads  to  be  served  with  soup. 
Fish,  Egg  and  Cheese  Dishes. 

CHAPTER  III. 

(Pages  47-64.) 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Entrees. 
Sauces. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

(Pages  65-82.) 

Breads  and  Sandwiches  for  Afternoon  Teas. 
Way  of  Preparing  Butter. 

CHAPTER  V. 

(Pages  83-96.) 

Salads. 


CONTENTS, 
CHAPTER  VL 

(Pages  97-108. 

Pastry. 
CHAPTER  VII. 

(Pages  109-134.) 

Hot  and  Cold  Deserts. 
Ices  and  Eeceptacles  for  Ices. 

CHAPTER  Yin. 

(Pages  135-162.) 

Cake. 
CHAPTER  IX. 

(Pages  163-184.) 

Icings  and  Cake  Decorations. 
CHAPTER  X. 

(Pages  185-217.) 

Candy  and  Confections. 
INDEX. 

(Pages  219-223.) 


CE AFTER  7. 

Garnishes  and  how  to  use  them. 
Table  of  "Weights  and  Measures. 


CHAPTER  I. 


Garnishes. 


Shell    Fish,    Lobster,   Crab. 
Liat    of  Garnishes   for   Meats 

with  Suggestions  for  Using. 
Potatoes   as   a  Garnish. 
Eice  as  a  Garnish. 
Pastry   Bag  and   Tube. 
Timbal     Shells     or     Fontage 

Cups. 
Pastry  Crullers. 
Pastry  Shells. 
Glaze. 
Garnishes  for  Cold  Meats. 


Some  of  the  Ways  of  Using 

Aspic  as  a  Garnish. 
Quick  Aspic. 
To   Clarify   Aspic. 
To  Mould  Jelly. 
To   Unmould   Jelly. 
Garnishes  for  Salads. 
Garnishes  for  Congealed   and 

Frozen  Desserts. 
Table  of  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures. 
Table    of   Proportions. 
Bakiag. 


TCist  of  <5arnlsbc5  for  IFisi)  wlt^ 
Suggestlorts  for  Kslng* 


^^^^ 

Parsley, 

Lemons, 

Watercress, 

Olives, 

Lettuce, 

Pickles, 

Mayonnaise, 

CaperSj 

Sauces, 

Cucumbers, 

Aspic, 

Pimentos, 

Ice, 

Potatoes. 

Parsley  and  Watercress  can  always  be  used  in 
bunches,  or  borders,  or  chopped  and  sprinkled  over  the 
dish.  Lettuce  shredded,  or  the  heart  leaves  of  the  head 
itttuce  used  to  surround,  or  placed  on  the  dish  to  suit 
the  style  of  the  dish  or  the  shape  of  the  fish. 

Mayonnaise  is  used  to  cover  or  masque  the  fish,  or 
poured  around  the  dish,  or  made  quite  stiff  and  pressed 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  into  shapes. 

Aspic  is  moulded  in  fancy  shapes  or  chopped.  See 
fancy  moulding,  etc.,  page  19. 

Ice  moulded  in  oblongs  or  squares  with  center  re- 
moved with  hot  iron  is  an  attractive  way  to  serve  raw 
oysters.    A  mound  or  border  of  shaved  ice  is  refreshing. 

Lemons  cut  in  slices  plain,  or  Vandyke  ed,ge,  and 
dipped  in  chopped  parsley.    Little  baskets  can  be  cut 

9 


10  Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrlnHcs. 

from  ■them  and  used,  filled  and  arranged  to  surround 
a  salad. 

Pickles,  olives  and  capers  are  all  used  in  garnish- 
ing fish  most  frequently  mixed  in  a  ma3'onnai&e  dress- 
ing. 

Cucumbers  are  cut  into  slices  or  made  into  boats  or 
small  rounds,  cut  from  them  by  the  use  of  a  very  small 
vegetable  cutter  and  miade  to  resemble  peas  and  when 
the  fish  is  masqued  in  mayonnaise  or  a  heavy  cream 
sauce  they  are  sprinkled  over  the  top. 

Pimentos  are  used  to  garnish  a  mould  in  which  a 
fish  is  cooked  or  fitted  into  small  moulds  and  filled  with 
a  fish  mixture  or  chopped  and  mixed  with  the  dressings 
cr  cut  into  fancy  shapes  and  arranged  over  the  fish. 
Potatoes  are  used  in  such  a  variety  of  ways  for  so 
many  dishes  they  require  a  chapter  to  themselves.  See 
page  14. 

Shell  Fisli,  Lobster,  Crah. 

'When  oysters  are  to  be  served  raw  the  small  varieties 
are  better  and  are  generally  served  on  the  half  shell, 
wafers  or  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  and  different 
varieties  of  catsups  are  served  with  them  and  the  gar- 
nish is  cracked  ice,  celery  and  lemon. 

Fried  oysters  are  garnished  with  lemon  and  parsley 
and  served  with  tomato  catsup  or  tobasco  sauce.  Grated 
horseradish  and  celery  are  also  served  with  them. 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinl-les.  11 

Little  neck  clams  oan  be  broiled  or  fried  the  same  as 
oysters. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs  are  broiled  or  fried  in  the  same 
way  as  oysters  and  served  in  their  shell  or  on  a  folded 
napkin.  Lemon  and  parsley  are  tho  garnishes  gen- 
erally used. 

Lobster  furnishes  its  own  garnish — the  claw  and 
coral  producing  the  best  effects. 


TClst  of  <5anilsl)es  for  !5tteat5  wit^ 
Suggestions  for  Ksing^ 


^^^^ 

Lardoons, 

I^ettuce, 

Croutons, 

Watercress, 

ToaBt  Points, 

Lemons, 

Eggs, 
Mushrooms, 

Pastry   Crullers, 
Timbal  Shelly 

ISpaghetti, 

Macaroni, 

Potatoes, 

Peas, 

Pice, 

Beets, 

Pastry  Shells, 
Jelly, 
Glaze, 
Sauces, 
Paper  Frills. 

Parsley, 

Fancy  Skewers. 

Lean  pieces  and  joints  of  meats  are  made  attractive 
and  more  palatable  by  larding,  putting  the  lardoons  in 
rows  of  fanciful  designs.  Croutons  are  used  as  a  sup- 
]>ort  for  cutlets,  chops,  croquettes,  etc.,  and  are  cut 
from  loaves  of  bread — or  made  into  form  from  rice 
and  potatoes  and  other  vegetables. 

Toast  points  are  pieces  of  hread  cut  into  triangles 
and  toasted  and  used  effectively  around  a  dish  of  fried 
or  broiled  meats;  especially  when  a  sauce  or  gravy  is 
used  in  combination.    Eggs  boiled  hard,  cut  into  thirds 

12 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes.  13 

or  quarters.  The  whites  cut  into  rings  or  chopped  or 
cut  intx)  petal-shaped  pieces;  the  yolks  pressed  through 
a  ricer  and  combined  witli  the  whites  give  a  number 
of  pretty  garnishes. 

Mushrooms  are  broiled  and  served  with  chicken, 
gweet  breads,  croquettes  and  other  meats,  or  boiled, 
chopped  and  served  in  sauces. 

Spaghetti  is  cooked  in  boiling  water  in  long  pieces, 
taken  from  the  water,  cooled  and  coiled  around  the  in- 
side of  greased  moulds  and  the  mould  filled  with  a 
creamed  dish,  chicken,  oysters  or  veal.  It  is  also  an 
accompaniment  to  meats.  Veal  cutlets  with  tomato 
sauce  and  spaghetti  is  attractive. 

Macaroni  is  used  in  much  the  same  way  as  spaghetti. 
It  can  be  cut  in  one-fourth  inch  pieces  and  placed  in 
a  well  buttered  mould  to  represent  honeycomb,  then 
filled  with  creamed  mixture  and  steamed. 

Peag  are  boiled,  mashed  through  a  sieve,  seasoned  and 
pressed  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  They  can  also 
be  used  effectively,  left  whole  and  moulded  'with  Aspic. 

Beets,  carrots  and  other  vegetables  can  be  cut  into 
shapes  or  cut  around  with  a  garnishing  knife  to  re- 
semble fluted  cups  and  stuck  through  with  ornamen- 
tal skewers.  The  greens  such,  as  parsley,  watercress,  let- 
tuce, etc.,  always  give  an  attractive  appearance  to  a 
dish.    A  little  green  is  refreshing  and  appetizing. 

Lemon  sliced  and  dipped  in  chopped  parsley  served 
as  a  garnish  to  broile,d  steak  is  pleasing.  Gravies  and 
sauces  should  be  poured  into  the  dish  and  the  meat 


14:  Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrMIes. 

placed  in  the  center.    Do  not  pour  them  over  the  meat 
it  spoils  the  appearance  of  the  dish. 

'Paper  frills  are  used  around  the  bone  of  chops,  ham, 
etc.,  and  add  very  much  to  their  appearance.  They 
can  be  made  at  home  or  bought  ready  for  us«. 

Potato  eg  as  a  Garnish, 

Irish  potatoes  can  be  cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways, 
boiled,  baked  or  friedi  and  served  with  any  kind  of 
meat.  In  order  to  have  them  dry  and  mealy  they 
should  be  put  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  in  an  un- 
covered vessel,  taken  from  the  water  as  soon  as  tender, 
and  thoroughly  drained.  If  they  are  to  be  used  as 
a  puree,  they  should  be  pressed  through  a  fine  sieve 
or  vegetable  press.  (Seasoned  with  a  little  cream,  but- 
ter and  salt  and  beaten  till  very  light.  In  making  little 
cups,  baskets  or  forms  to  be  used  as  a  receptacle  for 
vegetables,  the  yolk  of  egg  is  added  in  proportion  of  one 
egg  to  a  pint  of  potatoes  as  they  will  lose  their  forir 
when  cooked  the  second  time.  When  pressed  through  a 
vegetable  ricer,  they  form  pretty  borders  around  a  dish. 
They  are  m^ost  attractive  when  pressed  through  a  pastry 
bag  and  tube  which  can  be  done  in  a  great  variety  of 
way5.  Potatoes  for  frying  are  cut  into  straws,  balls  of 
different  sizes,  curls  and  thin  slices,  dropped  in  cold 
water  until  crisp.  Dry  between  towels  or  take  from 
tlie  water  and  expose  to  the  air  a  short  time,  fry  in 
smoking  fat.  They  are  especially  acceptable  as  an  ac- 
companiment to  broiled  meats. 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  15 

Bice  as  a  Garnish. 

Eice  cooked  in  a  quantity  of  salted  boiling  water, 
drained  as  soon  as  tender,  put  in  the  oven  to  dry  ia 
order  to  have  each  grain  stand  alone  and  separate, 
makes  a  beautiful  garnish  to  meats.  Mixed  with  a 
little  cream  and  ^^g  rolled  into  balls  and  fried,  makes 
a  good  dish  in  itself  and  also  serves  as  a  garnish. 
Moulded  in  small  rounds,  the  center  removed  and  the 
cavity  filled  with  creamed  yeal  or  chicken  or  vegetables 
gives  variety  and  attractiveness.  Line  a  brick  mould 
with  boiled  rice,  fill  in  with  creamed  meat  or  macaroni 
and  cheese  or  creamed  oysters.  Unmould  and  serve  with 
a  sauce  that  blends.  Little  rice  cakes  made  as  rice 
balls  and  browned  in  buttex,  make  a  garnish  for  curried 
chicken  and  other  meats.  Eice  can  be  used  acceptably 
to  garnish  many  congealed  dishes;  also  for  small  drop 
cakes.  Sprinkle  uncooked  rice  over  the  tops  just  be- 
fore putting  in  the  stove  and  bake  until  brown.  Puffed 
rice  is  especially  good  for  these  little  cakes. 

Pastry  Bag  and  Tube. 

Pastry  bags  are  made  of  both  rubber-cloth  and  can- 
vas. They  can  be  'bought  for  twenty  to  thirty  cents  each, 
or  they  can  be  made  at  home  by  cutting  the  material  in 
cornucopia  shape  and  stitching  .together,  cutting  an  op- 
ening at  the  end  to  fi't  the  tube  you  desire  to  use.  Eub- 
ber-cloth  bags  are  better  for  icings,  meringues,  whipped 
cream  and  cold  mixtures;  the  canvas  ones  for  hot  mix- 


16  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJdes. 

iiues,  as  potatoes,  peas^  purees.  The  tubes  are  bougbt  in 
different  sizes  and  shapes  both  in  tin  and  brass.  Whole 
sets  of  different  sizes  and  stj^e  of  openings  with  a 
rubber  bag  and  a  nozzle  can  be  bought  which  give  great 
variety.  These  are  more  expensive.  Single  tubes  are 
only  ten  cents  each  and  two  or  three  are  generally 
enough  to  give  variety  in  size  and  shape.  Pastry  bags 
and  tubes  can  be  used  more  frequently  and  more  effec- 
tively than  any  form  of  garnish. 

Tinibal  Shells  or  Pontage  Cups. 

Make  a  batter  of  thre-e-fourths  cup  of  flour,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  add  two-thirds  cup  of  sweet  milk  and 
one  egg  slightly  beaiten,  strain,  dip  a  hot  tinibal  iron 
into  the  batter  and  fry  the  mixture  which  clings  to  the 
iron  in  smoking  hot  fat,  deep  enough  to  cover.  Fill  with 
peas,  m'Ushrooms,  oysters,  or  sweet  breads,  use  as  a  gar- 
nish around  meat  or  as  an  entree. 

Pastry  Crullers. 

One  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  &gg  slightly 
beaten,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Use  any  shaped  cruller  iron. 
Dip  the  hot  iron  in  batter^  then  into  smoking  hot  fat 
deep  enough  to  cover  and  knock  from  the  iron  and 
continue  this  until  all  the  batter  is  consumed.  Use  as  a 
garnish  for  broiled  chicken,  quail  or  squab. 

Pastry  Shells. 

€ut  -small  rounds  from  pastr}^  rolled  very  thin,  fit 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrMIes.  17 

tliemi  over  fancy  shaped  tin  moulds  and  bake.    Fill  with 
a  tart  jelly,  use  as  a  garnish  for  fowls. 

Glaze, 

Boil  clear  sto€k  until  it  is  reduced  to  one-half.  If 
necessary  add  a  little  gelatine.  If  veal  stock  is  used 
it  is  not;  necessary  to  add  gelatine  but  if  veal  and  beef 
are  used  add  one  full  tablespoon  to  each  quart  of  stock. 
Glaze  is  used  in  brushing  over  cold  meats  and  for  bast- 
ing. It  gives  a  smooth  and  polished  surface  to  meats. 
It  is  often  added  to  sauces  to  give  richness  and  flavor. 
Put  in  a  closed  jar  and  it  will  keep  some  time. 


^arnis^es  for  (Told  Mleats* 

t^*  f^i  ^^  ^^ 

The  garnishes  for  cold  meats  are  almost  limitless. 
Aspic  is  more  used  than  any  other  garnish  as  it  gives 
such  yariety. 

In  the  hands  of  an  expert  the  most  beautiful  designs 
in  iiowers,  formed  by  the  use  of  different  vegetables, 
eggs^  pickles,  olives,  capers,  etc.,  can  be  made.  In  the 
hands  of  an  inexperienced  person,  simple  and  beautiful 
effects  can  be  produced 

QoTiie  of  the  Ways  of  Using  Aspic  as  a  Garnish. 

Mould  in  flat  shallow  pans,  turn  out  on  a  damp  cloth, 
cut  in  squares,  diamonds  or  fanciful  shapes  by  the  use 
of  different  shaped  cutters.  Chopped  aspic  makes  a 
beautiful  border,  also  aspic  moulded  in  border  moulds 
with  the  meat  placed  in  the  center.  Moulded  in  individ. 
ual  moulds  and  before  removing  from  the  mould  cut  out 
the  center,  leaving  space  enough  to  fill  with  a  salad 
or  minced  creamed  meat  is  also  acceptable. 

QuicTc  Aspic. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  cold  water 
for  one-half  to  one  hour,  if  granulated  gelatine  is  used, 

18 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes.  19 

one-half  hour  is  long  enough,  if  s"h.redded,  soak  one  hour. 
Put  in  a  saucepan  two  cups  of  cold  water  or  chicken 
liquor,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  one  thin  slice  of  onion,  one- 
fourth  cup  each  of  chopped  celery  and  carrot,  a  piece 
of  bay  leaf,  three  or  four  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  heef  ex- 
tract dissolved  in  one  cup  of  hot  water.  Cook  thinty  or 
forty  minutes.  Strain  over  the  gelatine  and  add  the 
luice  of  one  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  per- 
fectly cold,  clarify.  The  liquor  in  which  a  fowl  is  boiled! 
can  be  used  to  make  a  very  satisfactory  light  colored 
aspic  for  garnishing  salads  and  cold  meats.  When  there 
is  no  stock  on  hand  a  very  saitisfactor}'-  quick  aspic  can 
be  made  by  using  beef  extract  that  comes  in  jars. 

To  Clarify  Aspic, 

If  there  is  any  grease,  remove  ever}-  particle,  break 
with  two  or  three  strokes  -of  beater,  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  (if  small  use  three),  break  the  shells  and  add  two 
quarts  of  cold  jelly.  Cook  over  a  hot  fire,  stirring  all  the 
while,  until  it  boils.  Let  it  boil  four  or  five  minutes, 
stand  ten  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  If  not 
perfectly  clear,  strain  the  second  time. 

To  Mould  Jelly. 

Fill  the  mould  with  ice  water  and  when  ready  for 
use  pour  the  water  out  and  set  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice. 
Pour  in  the  jelly,  cover  over  with  top,  .set  in  a  cool  place 
until  firm.    If  some  veofetables  or  other  form  of  garnish 


20  Calr,  Candy  and  Cidinary  CrinJdes. 

is  'to  be  used  with  it,  pour  only  a  small  quantinty  of  jelly 
into  the  mould  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen  put  the  fruit, 
vegetables  or  the  garnish  to  be  used  on  the  jelly,  and  put 
in  a  small  quantity  of  jelly  that  is  cooled  enough  not  to 
melt  the  jelly  in  the  mould.  'When  this  begins  to  hard- 
en add  more  garnisih,  then  jelly,  and  so  on  until  the 
mould  is  full. 

If  some  particular  form  or  design  is  to  be  carried  out 
in  moulding^  the  mould  should  be  well  coated  with  jelly 
by  pouring  in  a  small  quantity  turning  the  mould  and 
tipping  it  from'  side  to  side,  until  every  part  of  the 
mould  has  a  thin  coating  of  the  jelly. 

Place  the  mould  in  the  pan  of  ice,  so  it  will  set  firm 
and  level,  then  proceed  with  the  arramging  of  garnish, 
by  the  use  of  cooked  vegetable,  cut  into  shapes.  Pickled 
beets,  hard  boiled  eggs,  truffler  pickles,  olives  and  pars. 
ley.  A  number  of  beautiful  gamishings  can  be  made, 
by  using  eggs.  Cut  the  whites  in  petal  shapes;  by  the 
use  of  a  small  skewer,  they  can  be  arranged  in  the 
coated  mould  to  form  a  daisy,  the  yellow  cut  into  a 
small  round  furnishes  the  center,  and  parsley,  the 
leaves.  An  attractive  border  can  be  made  in  a  round 
mould,  a  spray  or  single  flower  in  other  shaped  moulds. 
Star  and  diamond  shapes  are  easy  and  effective^  made 
with  peas  and  beets.  In  making  these  it  is  well  after 
coating  the  mould  to  dip  each,  vegetable  as  it  is  used 
in  jelly,  cold  enough  to  ad'here  and  that  fastens  itself 
when  it  is  placed  in  position.  After  the  design  is 
formed  in  this  way,  add  more  jelly,  a  little  at  a  time. 


Calie^  Candy  and  Culinarij  Cnnl-Jes.  21 

v.iili  a  spoon  to  keep  in  shape  until  the  mould  is  filled. 
If  side  decorations  are  to  be  nsed,  th«y  are  put  on  after 
the  mould  is  filled.  Coat  the  pieces  by  dipping  in  soft- 
ened Jelly  and  then  putting  them  in  place. 

To  Unmoiild  Jelly, 

Hare  a  vessel  filled  with  hot  water  deep  enough  to 
cover  the  mould.  Immerse  the  mould,  completely  cover- 
ing it  for  a  moment;  have  a  soft,  dry  cloth  ready  and 
wipe  off  the  mould  and  catch  any  water  clinging  to  it. 
Turn  the  platter  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  over  the 
mould  and  the  jelly  will  slip  out.  If  it  has  any  liquid 
surrounding,  wipe  at  once  with  a  dry  cloth  as  it  will 
cause  the  jelly  to  melt  if  allowed  to  remain. 


ff^^^^^p^c::^ 


(Barnisljes  for  Salads* 

^  .JS  ^  ^ 

Lettuce^  parsley,  watercress  and  celerj^  tops.  Rad- 
ishes, beets,  turnips,  apples,  green  and  red  peppers,  cu- 
cumbers, pickles,  olives,  lemons,  aspic,  eggs  all  can  be 
made  into  beautiful  garnishings.  Lemons  cut  into 
slices  and  dipped  in  chopped  parsley  or  cut  into  basKets 
and  filled  with  a  suitable  accompaniment.  Cucumbers 
can  be  made  into  boats  or  cut  with  a  tiny  round  cutter, 
the  size  of  a  pea,  and  sprinkled  over  a  fish  salad,  or 
sliced  into  round's  and  laid  on  a  border  of  cracked  ice. 

Pickled  beets  cut  into  fancy  shapes  with  cutters  cr 
a  fluted  garnishing  knife,  made  into  little  fluted  cups  by 
ecooping  out  th  ecenter,  are  attractive  as  a  garnish  and 
can  be  used  effectively  as  a  receptacle  for  individual 
ealads.  Turnips  are  used  in  <the  same  way.  Eed  apples, 
green  and  red  peppers  are  also  used  for  this  purpose. 

Scoop  out  the  center  of  apples  with  a  round  vege- 
table cutter  and  use  the  balls  cut  to  mix  with  the  salad. 

Green  and  red  peppers  should  have  the  stem  end  cut 
off  and  the  seeds  and  partitions  removed,  filled  with 
salad  and  served  on  lettuce.  The  little  heart  leaves  of 
lettuce  can  be  arranged  with  the  peppers  to  resemble 
tulips  and  little  green  cups  with  yellow  handles.  Ead- 
ishes  make  an  attractive  garnish  by  cutting  to  represent 
flowers. 

22 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes.  23 

Nasturtiums  are  one  of  the  simplest  and  most  ef- 
fective of  all  garnishes  and'  suitable  for  almost  any 
sala-d. 

Eggs  are  used  in  a  variety  of  forms,  boiled  hard' 
and  chopped,  and  pressed  through  a  vegetable  press; 
the  whites  cut  into  petal  shapes  and  daisies  formed 
from  them',  the  yellows  serving  as  a  center.  When 
poached  or  steamed  in  little  fancy  moulds,  they  make 
an  attractive  garnish.  They  can  be  cut  into  slices  of 
different  sizes  and  shapes,  also  made  into  little  basket 
shapes. 

Curled  celery  forms  a  pretty  garnish  for  a  number 
of  salads  and  combined  with  potato  balls  and  other  vege- 
tables, very  ornamental  dishes  can  be  made. 

Aspic  can  be  moulded  in  small  forms  or  in  square, 
deep  pans  and  cut  into  shapes  or  moulded  in  border 
moulds,  and  the  center  filled  with  salad  or  chopped  fine 
and  used  around  a  mould  of  salad.  See  page  19  for 
moulding  and  making  Aspic. 


<&arni5l)e5  for  (Tongeakd  anb   J^vozdn 

desserts. 

CT*  t^  C(^  c5* 

Whipped  Cream,  Meringue  Kisses, 

Flowers,  Gratedi  'Cocoaniit, 

Paper  Mats,  ^^  ^^'^^^'' 

Candiy  Baskets, 
Fresh  and  Can-  g^^^^  g^^^^^ 

died  Fruits,  ^,^^^  ^^^  gi^^^^ 

Xuts,  Leaf 

Nothing  is  so  acceptable  and  attractive  for  a  garnish 
to  congealed  dishes,  particularly  the  sweet  ones  as 
whipped  cream.  If  it  is  to  be  sweetened  and  flavored 
or  colored,  do  it  after  it  is  whipped. 

It  should  be  old  enough  to  have  body.  Set  in  ice 
water  or  in  a  vessel  surrounded  by  ice,  and  whipped 
with  a  wire  whip,  until  perfectly  stiff;  allow  to  stand 
an  hour  or  two,  so  if  there  is  any  milk,  it  will  settle 
at  the  bottom.  Put  the  cream  into  a  pastry  bag  and 
press  into  shape.  It  can  be  made  into  forms  and  de- 
signs, flowers,  etc.,  according  to  the  style  of  the  dish, 
upon  which  it  is  served  the  shape  of  the  mould  and 
the  skill  of  the  one  using  it. 

Fruits  cut  into  quarters,  rounds  and  pretty  shapes 
make  an  effective  garnish  for  some  cold  dishes.  Flowers 

24 


Cake^  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJcles.  25 

and  leaves  are  always  pretty.  Spun  sugar  is  attractive. 
Moulding  and  shaping  of  a  congealed  dish,  have  as  much 
to  do  with  the  appearance  of  the  dish,  as  the  ingredients 
used  in  making  have  to  do  with  the  taste. 

Lace  paper  mats  are  for  the  bottom  of  plates  or  plat- 
ters ;  pistachino  nuts,  blanched  and  chopped  are  sprink- 
led over.  Candied  cherries  and  other  candied  fruit,  cut 
into  shapes  and  arranged  in  the  mould  with  the  jelly, 
are  very  effective.  Indeed  it  is  difficult  to  limit  the 
garnishes  and  fancy  moulding  of  congealed  dishes. 

Use  the  few  suggestions  made  here  and  wonderful 
possibilities  will  be  revealed  upon  entering  into  the 
work. 


^able  of  X^eig^ts  anb  ^ea^ures* 

Ib  measuring,  use  cups  holding  one-half  pint  divided 
into  fourths  and  thirds.  Always  sift  flour,  meal  and 
sugar  before  measuring.  In  using  the  receipts  in  this 
book  if  the  garnish  is  not  given,  refer  to  the  chapter 
of  garnishing  under  the  head  it  comes.  Xone  of  the 
receipts  in  "What  to  Cook,  and  How  to  Cook  It,"  are 
repeated  in  this  book  except  in  a  few  instances. 

Twelve  level  tablespoons  of  dry  matterial=ione  cup. 

Two  cups  of  butter = one  pound. 

Four  cups  of  flour  ■=  one  pound. 

Two  and  one4ialf  cups  of  granulated  sugar=  one  pound. 

Three  cups  of  powdered  sugar  ^^  one  pound. 

Three  cups  of  meal  =  one  pound 

Two  cups  of  chopped  meat  =  one  pound. 

Nine  large  or  ten  small  eggs=  one  pound. 

One  rounding  tablespoon  butter  ==  one  ounce. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  ==  one  ounce. 

One  rounding  tablespoon  flour  =  one  ounce. 

Tahle  of  Proportions. 

One  scant  cup  of  liquid  to  three  cups  of  flour  for  bread. 
One  cup  of  liquid  to  two  cups  of  flour  for  muffins. 

26 


Cal-c,  Candy  and  CuVinary  Crinl'Ies.  27 

One  cup  of  liquid  to  one  cup  of  flour  for  batter. 
One-half  cup  of  yeast  or  one-fourth  cake  of  compressed 

yeast  to  one  pint  of  liquid. 
One  level  teaspoon  of  soda  to  two  full  teaspoons  cream 

of  tartar  to  one  quart  of  flour. 
One  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  to  one  cup  of  flour. 
One  level  teaspoon  of  soda  to  one  pint  of  sour  milk. 
One  level  teaspoon  of  soda  to  one  pint  of  molasses. 
One  and  one-founth  teaspoons  of  salt  to  one  quart  of 

custard. 
One  teaspoon  of  extract  to  one  quart  of  custard. 
Five  to  eight  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk  for  custard. 
Three  to  four  eggs  to  one  pint  of  milk  for  custard. 
Two  ounces  of  gelatine  to  one  and  three-fourth  quarts 

of  liquid. 
Four  heaping  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  or  arrowroot 

.  to  one  quart  of  milk  for  a  solid  custard. 
One-half  the  proportions  for  a  thin  custard. 

Balcing, 

Loaf  Bread  forty  to  sixty  minutes. 

Biscuits  ten  to  twenty  minutes. 

Eolls  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Layer  Oake  twenty  to  thirty-five  minutes. 

Mould  Cake,  forty-five  minutes  to  two  hours. 

Mould  Fruit  Cake  two  to  four  hours. 

Custards  forty  to  sixty  minutes. 


CHAPTER  11. 

Soups. 

Bread  Served  with  Soup. 

Fish,  Egg  and  Cheese  Dishes, 


CHAPTER  II. 


Soup. 


Soup  Stock  made  from  Bone. 
To  Clarify   Stock  made  from 

Bone. 
Consomme. 

Consomme  a  la  New  Orleans. 
Pancake    for    Consomme. 
Spaghetti  Consomme. 
Cream   Corn    Soup 
Chicken    Bisque. 
Breads  Served  with  Soups. 
Oysters   in   Peppers. 
Creamed  Oysters  with  Cheese 
Oysters    in    Ramekins. 
Oyster  Saute. 

Spaghetti       Croustade      with 
Creamed  Oysters. 
Oyster   Loaf. 
Creamed  Oysters. 
Ovster  Short  Cake. 
Fresh   Cutlet. 
Fish  and  Nut  Timbal. 


Fish  Pimento  Timbal. 

Egg  Timbal   No.  1. 

Egg  Timbal  No.  2. 

Eggs     in   Nests  of     Creamed 

Chicken. 
Caramel   and   Nut  Omlet. 
Yjgg   Soufflee. 
Cheese   Sauce. 
Parisienue  Eggs. 
Eggs  in   a   Border  of  Rice. 
Eggs  a  la  Turk. 
Cheese   Custard. 
Cheese  Souffiee. 
Cheese  Fondu. 
A  Nice  Cheese  Dish. 
Cheese   Wafers. 
Italienne   Cheese    Wafers. 
Scalloped  Cheese. 
Scrambled   Cheese  and   Eggs. 
Cream  Cheesp   Timbal. 
Cheese  Eclaires. 


Soups* 

^W   ^^V   ^*    i^t 

Soup  Stocli  Made  from  Bone. 

Fill  your  stock  pot  one-lialf  full  of  fresh  beef  and 
veal  bones.  Cover  well  with  cold  water  and  bring 
gently  to  a  boil.  As  soon  as  the  skum  begins  to  rise, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  cold  water  and  skim  well.  Con- 
tinue to  skim  until  the  stock  is  freed  from  the  skum 
but  leave  the  fat  in  the  stock.  Add  salt  to  taste, 
twelve  black  pepper  cones,  two  medium  sized  carrots, 
a  little  parsley,  a  medium  sized  onion,  O'ue-fourth 
stick  of  celery,  a  bunch  of  herbs  (bay  leaf,  thyme  and 
marjoram)  and  stick  four  cloves  in  onion.  Simmer 
together  for  three  or  four  hours,  strain  well  and  set 
aside  until  perfectly  cold.     When  ready  to  use,  clarify. 

To  Clarify  Stoch  Made  from  Bone. 

Use  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  each  quart  of  stock 
and  one-half  pound  of  lean  meat  chopped  fine  or  rue 
through  a  meat  grinder.  Season  more  highly  if  neces- 
sary and  cook  until  it  comes  gently  to  a  boil,  boil  10  or 
15  mJnutes  stirring  every  now  and  then.  Add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  cold  water,  let  stand  for  five  minutes  and 
?  train. 

31 


32  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes. 

To  Clarify  Stock  Made  From  Meat, 

To  each  quart  of  coldi  stock  add  tlio  whites  of  two 
eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Stir  con'stantly  until  it  boils, 
boil  two  or  three  minutes  then  add  one-fourth  cup  of 
cold  water.    Let  stand  a  few  minutes  and  sitrain. 

Consomme, 

'Cut  7  lbs.  of  beef  from  the  round,  and  the  meat, 
from  the  knuckles  of  veal  into  small  pieces ;  put  two  ta. 
blespoons  of  butter  in  the  soup  pot  with  the  meat  and 
brown  well.  Add  a  little  water,  cook  until  the  water 
is  a  rich  brown;  add  five  quarts  oi  cold  water  and  let  it 
simmer  for  five  or  six  hours,  then  add  the  seasonings 
and  vegetables.  Carrots  and  celery.  One  full  tablespoon 
of  salt,  ten  or  twelve  pepper  corns,  five  or  six  cloves 
a  small  onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  marjoram,  a  bi-t  of 
bay  leaf,  simmer  one  hour.  Strain  and  cool  quickly  and 
let  stand  in  an  uncovered  vessel.  T\lien  cold  remove  the 
cake  of  grease  that  forms  on  the  top.  Browning  the 
meat  first  gives  color  and  not  having  bone  the  soup 
should  be  clear.  If  you  desire  a  very  clear  and  spark- 
ling soup,  clarify  according  to  direction  for  clarifying 
stock. 

Consomme  A-La  -New  Orleans. 

Cut  carrots,  turnips  and  cucumbers  with  a  french 
pa-cutter.  Cover  with  clear  water  and  boil  until  ten- 
der.    Make  a  pancake  and  cut  in  shreds.     Add  vege- 


Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlcles.  33 

tables  with  a  little  shredded  lettuce  and  pancake  to  ckar 
soup.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

Pancake  for  Consomme. 

Mix  one  whole  egg,  three  tablespoons  of  milk,  one 
tablespoon  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake 
on  a  greased  griddle. 

Spaghetti  Consomme. 

Make  a  clear  soup  and  just  before  serving  put  with 
it  plain  boiled  spaghetti  cut  into  strips  and  some 
rounds  of  savory  custard.  Add  a  few  leaves  of  chervil 
or  sour  grass,  or  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  The 
spaghetti  should!  be  cookedi  in  boiling,  salted  water 
for  three-fourths  of  an  hour  and  let  stand  in  cold  water 
until  ready  for  use. 

Savory  Custa/rd. 

Four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  parnie- 
scn  preferred,  four  tablespoons  of  cream,  pinch  of 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  all  together  and  divide 
into  two  parts.  Color  one  part  with  a  little  red  color- 
ing^ pour  into  buttered  molds  andl  steam  until  firm. 
Turn  out  and  when  cold  cut  into  .shapes  and  put  in  soup. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup. 

Cook  one  can  of  corn  with  three  cups  of  water  for 
fifteen  minutes,  strain  and  mash  through  a  sieve,  cook 
two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two  table- 
spoons of    flour  and  the  strained    eorn,  cook  until  it 


34  Cal^e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinldcs, 

thickens,  add  one  cuj)  of  hot  cream,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Chicken  Bisque. 

Cook  two  tahlespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  two 
tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir  until  blended,  pour  on 
gradually  three  cups  of  chicken  stock  and  one  cup  of 
rich  milk.  When  it  begins  to  'thicken  add  one  cup  of 
ground  cooked  chicken  and  cook  until  it  thickens  to  the 
proper  consistency,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put 
three  tablespoon9  of  whipped  cream  in  the  bottom  of 
bowl  and  pour  the  bisque  onto  it. 

Breads  Served  With  Soup. 

Cut  lightbread  in  slices  one  inch  thick,  cut  off  crust 
edges  and  cut  in  strips  one  inch  wide.  Brush  over  with 
butter  and  toast  a  light  brown.  Stack  on  a  plate  log 
cabin  style. 

Bread  cut  into  rounds  or  triangles,  buttered  and 
stacked  buttered  sides  together,  and  served  as  a  sand- 
wich. Bread  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  squares  or  triangles 
and  toasted  or  fried  or  served  as  croutons  sprinkled  over 
the  top  of  the  soup  or  served  in  a  bread  tray  and  passed 
with  it.  Yeast  bread  made  into  slender  rolls  and  fing- 
ers and  baked  in  bread  ^tock  pans  are  pretty  and  at- 
tractive. Wafers,  reception  flakes,  and  salted  crackers 
pre  served  with  soup  and  should  be  heated  a  moment  be- 
fore serving. 


t5*  t^5*  «^*  «(5* 

Oysters  in  Peppers, 

Cut  the  stem  end  from  sweet  'bell  peppers  of  uniform 
size  (not  too  large).  Eemove  seed  and  parboil  ten  min- 
utes. Fill  with  creamed  oysters,  cover  with  the  stem  of 
peppers^  stand  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  enough  stock  or 
water  in  dish  to  prevent  burning,  about  one-half  cup  to 
six  or  eight  medium  sized  peppers  and  bake  until  the 
peppers  are  tender  but  do  not  let  them  lose  their  shape. 

Creamed  Oysters  With  Cheese. 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler  one  rounding  tablespoon  of 
butter.  When  melted  add  two  tablespoons  of  grated 
Edam  or  other  cream  cheese.  When  melted  and  smooth 
add  one-third  cup  of  tomato  catsup  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  one-half  cup  of 
cream  and  the  meat  of  a  crab  cut  very  fine ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  when  creamy  and  quite  hot  add  one- 
half  pint  of  sm.all  oystCTs  (blue  points  are  especially 
nice)  cook  until  the  edges  curl.  Serve  at  once  on  hot 
buttered  toast. 

Oysters  in  Ramehins. 

Dip  small  rounds  of  toast  in  oyster  liquor;  fit  them 
in  the  bottom  of  ramekins.     Put  in  as  many  oysters  as 

35 


26  Cal^e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes. 

they  will  hold,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  top  and  bake  until  the  oysters  begin 
to  crinkle.    'Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

Oyster  Saute. 

Steam  large  oysters  a  few  minutes,  dry  between  tow- 
els, dip  in  salted  crumbs,  then  in  mayonnaise  or  cooked 
salad  dressing,  then  in  crumbs  and  saute  in  butter  until 
they  are  brown.  Serve  with  slices  of  lemon  dipped  in 
chopped  parsley. 

Spaghetti  Crustades  'WitJi  Creamed  Oysters, 

Break  one-half  pound  of  spaghetti  into  very  small 
pieces.  Wash  well  and  cook  in  enough  boiling  salt  wa- 
ter to  cover.  Cook  until  very  tender.  Melt  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  one-half,  level  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  cook.  Add  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  drop  of  onion  juice,  continue 
to  cook  until  thick.  Add  spaghetti  and  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoon  of  grated 
cheese.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  well-buttered,  deep, 
square,  pan.  Cover  with  buttered  paper,  put  under  a 
weight.  TMien  cold  turn  out  and  cut  into  rounds  or 
squares,  dip  in  ^gg  and  'Crumbs  and  ivy  in  hot  fat.  Cut 
cut  the  centers  and  fill  with  creamed  oysters. 

Oyster  Loaf. 

Cut  the  crust  from  a  loaf  of  bread,  cut  out  the  center 
one-half  inch  from  the  edge,  cutting  almost  through  the 


CaliS,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldefi.  37 

loaf.     Brush  over  with  butter  and  toast  a  light  brown, 
fill  with  creamed  oysters. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

'Scald  one  pint  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until  the 
edges  curl,  drain  and  reserve  the  liquor.  Cook  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  until  it  bubbles,  add  two  rounding  ta- 
ble-spoons of  flour,  pour  in  the  liquor  and  one  cup  of 
fresh  milk,  cook  until  it  thickens,  .season  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  IMove  to  the  side  of  the 
stove  and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  bea'ten,  stir 
until  thick,  add  oysters  and  serve. 

Oyster  Shortcake. 

Boll  plain  paste  quite  thin,  fit  over  an  inverted  baking 
dish  and  bake.  Cut  a  plain  piece  for  the  top  and  bake 
on  a  sheet.  Prepare  oysters  a-la-France  (What  to  Cook 
And  How  To  Cook  It,  page  36).  Eemove  the  pastry 
from  the  inverted  dish  and  put  on  a  flat  platter.  Fill 
with  oyster  mixture,  put  pastry  top  on  and  serve  as  or- 
dinary meat  pie.  The  top  can  be  made  very  ornamental 
by  cutting  leaves  or  fancy  shapes  from  pastry,  moisten 
with  cold  water  around  the  edge  of  top  crust  and  lay 
the  leaves  on,  overlapping  each  other  and  bake  together. 
Individual  shortcakes  can  be  made  the  same  way  by  the 
use  of  small  tin  moulds,  cooking  the  shells  on  inverted 
moulds,  the  tops  separately  on  baking  sheets,  and  filling 
the  shells  with  oyster  mixture  and  placing  the  tops  over 
just  before  serving. 


38  CaJ:e,  Candy  and  CvJlnani  Crinlcles. 

Fish  Cutlets. 

Chop  fine  two  pounds  of  some  good  baking  uncooked 
white  fish,  add  one-half  cup  of  pounded,  blanched  al- 
monds, one-half  teaspoon  of  salt^  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
white  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  the  whites  of  two- 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  one  cup  of  cream  whipped  very 
stiff.  Butter  cutlet  onoulds  and  steam  twenty  minutes ; 
unmould  and  serve  with  salad  creami  dressing  No.  1, 
page 

Fish  and  Nut  Timhdl. 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs  in  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  ten  or  fiften  minutes,  add  one-half  cup  of 
ground  nuts  (almonds  or  pecans),  one-half  cup  of 
ground,  cooked  fish,  and  two  eggs-,  beaten  light.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  small  timbal  moulds  with 
strips  of  pimento,  fill  with  mixture  and  steam  until  firm 
to  the  touch,  about  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.  Un- 
mould and  serve  ^dth  a  cream  sauce. 

Fish  Timhal. 

To  two  cups  of  cold,  cooked  fish,  ground,  add  three- 
fourths  cup  of  cream  sauce,  well  seasoned  and  beat  the 
mixture  until  very  light;  add  two  egga  well  beaten. 
Butter  timbal  moulds,  pour  in  the  fish  mixture,  set  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water,  cover  over  and  cook  in  the  oven  or  oii 
top  of  the  stove  until  firm  to  the  touch  Serve  with  any 
one  of  the  sauces,  used  for  fish. 


Calc,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinlJcs.  39 

Fish  Finhento  Timhal. 

Line  moiilds  with  whole  pimentos  or  strips,  or  cut  into 
fancy  .shapes.  Fill  with  fish  timbal  mixtnre.  Cook  in  hot 
water  covered:  over  and  serve  with  cream  or  fish  sauce. 

Egg  Timhal  No.  1. 

Beat  together  until  well  blended  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  four  eggs.  Season  with  a  dash  each  of  Avhite  and 
cayenne  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one  tea- 
spoon of  chopped*  parsley,  one  teaspoon  salt,  add  one  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  pour  intO'  buttered  cups  or  moulds,  set  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  centers  are  firm,  serve 
with  a  tomato  sauce. 

Egg  Timhal  No.  2. 

Make  a  sauce  of  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and 
flour  and  one  cup  of  milk ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
cool;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  to  the  sauce  and  beat 
two  or  three  minutes,  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and 
'dry  and  fold  them  in.  Grease  timbal  moulds  or  cups 
well  with  butter,  fill  them  half  full  of  the  mixture,  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  lined  with  several  layers  of  paper, 
and  bake  until  firm  to  the  touch.  .Serve  with  (tomato, 
cream  or  'cheese  sauce. 

Eggs  in  Xcsfs  of  Creamed  CMclcen. 

Mix  one  cup  of  ground,  cooked  chicken  and  three- 
fourths  cup  of  bread  crumbs  with  one  Qgg  slightly  beat- 


40  Cal'e,  Candy  and  CnJinary  Crinkles. 

en,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 
Cock  three  eggs  hard  for  forty-five  minutes  in  water  just 
below  the  boiling  point.  'V\lien  cool  remove  the  shell  and 
rub  over  with  flour.  Divide  the  chicken  mixture  in 
portions,  wrap  each  portion  around  an  egg,  being  care- 
ful to  keep  the  shape  of  egg,  dust  over  with  flour  and 
brown  in  butter,  cut  into  halves  across,  cut  off  a  little 
of  the  end  so  they  will  stand  firm.  Serve  on  rounds  of 
toast  with  cream  sauce  or  pour  a  tomato  sauce  in  dish 
and  set  the  nests  in  the  sauce. 

Caramel  and  Nut  Omelet. 

Make  a  caramel  sauce  by  putting  one  cup  of  white  su- 
gar in  an  omelet  pan,  when  melted  add  one-half  cup 
or  miore  of  water  and  boil  until  a  thick  syrup.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs  until  very  light;  add 
three  tablespoons  of  caramel  to  the  yolks  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  fold  in  the  whites.  Melt  one  level  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  om.elet  pan,  cover  the  bottom  with  blanched^ 
split  almonds.  Pour  in  the  omelet  and  cook  on  not  too 
liot  a  stove  until  it  has  cooked  brown  on  the  bottom  and 
has  risen  until  light;  set  inside  oven  and  brown,  turn 
on  hot  platter  and  pour  around  the  remaining  caramel 
sauce. 

Egg  Soufflee. 

To  one  cup  of  heavy  cream  sauce,  add  while  the  sauce 
is  still  warm,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Fold 
in  the  whites  stiffly  beaten;  fill  timbal  cups  half  full  of 


Col:e,  Candy  and  Culiyiary  Crinl-les.  41 

mixture,  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven;  do  not 
cover  over  the  top.  Unmould  and  serve  with  cream 
sauce,  with  whipped  cream  added,  or  it  can  be  served 
with  a  cheese  sauce. 

Cheese  Sauce. 

To  one  cup  of  thin  cream  sauce,  add  just  before  serv- 
ing one  full  tablespoon  of  cheese;  cook  over  hot  water 

until  melted. 

Pa/riseinne  Eggs. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  into  rather  thin  slices  and  sea- 
son with  paprica,  salt,  chopped  parsley  and  a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice.  Dip  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  But- 
ter well  a  baking  dish  and  line  it  with  sliced  tomatoes 
seasoned  the  same  way  as  the  eggs.  Cover  them  over 
with  a  cream  sauce,  put  in  a  layer  of  eggs,  then  the 
sauce,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  making  the  last 
layer  of  sauce  ornamental  by  forcing  through  a  star- 
shaped  tube.  Garnish  around  the  edge  of  the  dish  with 
potato  balls  made  from  boiled,  mashed,  seasoned  Irish 
potatoes  with  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg  added.  Brush  over 
with  butter  and  set  in  the  stove  until  thoroughly  heated. 

Sauce  For  Above  Dish, 

Add  to  two  cups  of  heavy  cream  sauce  two  full  table- 
spoons of  Parmesan  cheese,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  each  of  French 
and  English  mustard  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 


42  CaJce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUcs. 

Eggs  in  a  Border  of  Rice. 

Chop  hard  boiled  eggs  and  pour  over  them  one  cup  of 
white  sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  one  cup  of  Edam 
cheese  highly  saesoned  with  cayenne  pepper.  Seire  in 
a  border  of  rice.    See  Cook  Book,  page  T8. 

Egg  A-La-TurJc. 

Boil  eggs  in  their  shells  until  hard.  When  cool  rt- 
move  the  shells  and  cut  in  half.  Eemove  the  yolks  and 
mash  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  ^lix  with 
it  some  finely  chopped  nuts  and  chicken,  and  fill  the 
whites  with  this  mixture.  Put  in  shape  by  pressing  the 
halves  together  well.  Eoll  in  crumbs,  egg,  then  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat.    Serve  with  a  nut  sauce. 

Cheese  Custard. 

One  rounding  tablespoon  of  flour,  two  of  grated 
cheese,  one  and  one-half  of  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Mix  all  together 
with  one-third  cup  of  milk.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils  then  add  two  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream.  Stack 
on  a  plate  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Cheese  Souffles, 

To  one  cup  of  heavy,  well-seasoned  cream  sauce  add 
one-half  cup  of  grated  American  cheese.  Eemove  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
fold  in  the  well-beaiten  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
mold  twentv  m.inutes. 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  CiiUnarij  CrinUes.  43 

Cheese  Fondu. 

Make  a  heavy  cream  sauce  of  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, two  full  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  two  cups  of  milk 
or  cream.  Cook  the  butter,  add  flour  then  the  milk, 
Tery  gradually  stirring  all  the  while.  When  quite 
thick  add  four  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  pepper  and 
salt.  WTien  cold  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  beat  in 
well.  Then  fold  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Cook  in  a 
baking  dish  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  inside  the  oven, 
until  firm.  Serve  with  or  without  a  poulette  sauce  with 
mushrooms. 

A  Nice  Cheese  Dish. 

Butter  slices  of  toast  well,  and  line  the  bottom  of 
baking  dish  with  them.  Sprinkle  well  with  grated 
cheese,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  with  four 
well-beaten  eggs,  three  cups  of  milk,  pour  over  bread" 
and  cheese  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  WTien  done  gar- 
nish around  the  edge  with  toast  points. 

Cheese  Wafers. 

Mix  one  cup  of  grated  cheese,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
yolk  of  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  together.  Work 
with  this  all  the  flour  it  will  take  and  knead  until 
smooth.  Put  in  a  cool  place  for  several  hours,  roll  thin, 
rut  into  wafers  and  bake  quickly. 

Italienne  Cheese  Wafers. 

Eub  into  one  full  cup  of  flour  two  level  tablespoons  of 

butter,  one  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese,  Parmesan  pre- 


44  Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes. 

ferred,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  Mix  with  cream  into  a  dry  stilf 
paste,  roll  out,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  cut  into  fancy 
shapes  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Bake  a  deli- 
cate brown.  Garnish  each  one  with  the  following  mix- 
ture, using  a  star-shaped  opening: 

Take  a  small  bunch  of  parsley,  a  teaspoon  of  chopped 
onion,  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  one- fourth  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one-half  cup  of 
water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  press  and  pound  thin  with  a 
scant  tablespoon  of  French  capers,  four  hard  boilp'^ 
yolks  of  eggs,  one-fourth  pound  of  fresh  butter,  table- 
spoon of  olive  oil,  eight  honed  sardines  or  a  teaspoon  of 
anchovy  paste.     Color  with  a  little  leaf  green  coloring. 

FinTc  Butter. 

Mix  with  one-fourth  pound  of  butter,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  beef  extract,  two  teaspoons  of  olive  oil,  a  dash 
of  paprica.    Color  pink  with  damask  rose  fruit  coloring. 

White  Butter. 

Work  one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  butter  until  smooth, 
add  a  dash  of  red  pepper.  Put  all  three  butters  into  a 
pastry  bag  together  and  press  a  small  portion  of  mix- 
lure  on  each  wafer,  using  star-shaped  tube. 

Scalloped  Cheese. 

Cut  the  crust  edges  from  slices  of  bread,  butter  well 
and  cut  into  dice,  put  layer  of  dice  in  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  generously  with  grated  cheese   (Ameri<:an  or 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinliles.  45 

Parmesan),  dust  over  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper, 
fill  the  dish  alternating  bread  and  cheese.  Beat  one 
egg  until  light  and  put  into  a  cup,  using  enough  sweet 
milk  to  fill  the  cup,  pour  this  over  the  mixture,  sprinkle 
{he  top  with  bread  dice.  Bake  until  a  light  brown, 
abouit  twenty  minutes. 

Scrambled  Eggs  and  Cheese. 

Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  skillet  and  break  six 
eggs,  add  one  cup  of  cheese,  cut  into  dice,  a  sprinkle 
of  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  with  a  fork  until  the  eggs  be- 
come a  creamy  mass,  put  on  a  platter,  garnish  with  a 
bit  of  parsley. 

Cream  Cheese  Timhals, 

Two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of  thick  cream,  one  onnx^e 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  dash  of  paprica,  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Mix  all  together  and  pour  into  well  buttered 
timbal  moulds.  Put  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  with  several 
rows  of  thick  paper  in  bottom  of  pan.  Cook  inside 
the  oven  until  firm.  Turn  out  and  dip  in  flour,  ^'^g 
and  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Fry  a  delicate  brown  in  smok- 
ing fat.     Serve  with  a  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Cheese  Timhals. 

Six  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  four  tablespoons  of 
cream,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Cook  over  fire  until  dis- 
solved. 


46  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlxlcs. 

Cheese  Edaires. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  one  cup  of  water,  four  table- 
spoons of  butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  good 
pinch  of  salt.  Let  this  boil,  then  mix  in  five  level  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Cook  on  a  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes 
istirring  all  the  while.  Remove  from  the  stove  and 
when  it  begins  to  cool  add  slowly  three  whole  eggs  and 
beat  hard,  until  smooth.  Add  two  rounding  tablespoons 
of  grated  cheese.  Put  the  paste  in  a  bag  with  a  plain 
round  tube  and  force  it  on  to  a  greased  baking  sheet 
into  lengths  three  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide.  Brush 
over  with  the  whole  beaten  up  egg.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twenty  of  twenty-five  minutes.  Eemove,  split  and 
fill  with  cheese  custard. 


CHAPTER  III. 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Entrees. 
Sauces. 


CHAPTER  III. 
Meat  and   Vegetable  Entrees. 


Beet  with   Tomatoes. 
Grilled    Beef    witli    Capsicum 

Sauce. 
Capsicum  Sauce. 
Beef  Cutlets  witli  Vegetables. 
Baked   Liver. 
Croustades      of      Ham      with 

Cheese. 
Brain   Timbals 
Brain   Cutlets. 
Brain   and  Chicken   Patties. 
Maryland    Chicken    Puding. 
South    Carolina    Chicken. 
Casserole  of  Chicken. 
Chicken   a   la   King   No.    1. 


Bernaise  Sauce. 
Chicken   a   la   King   No.  2. 
Chicken  a  la  King  2>o.  3. 
Chicken  Cutlets  with  Garnish 

of  Peas  and  Potatoes. 
Imperial    Cream    Chicken. 
Chicken  and  Oyster  Timbal. 
Chicken    and    Nut    Timbal. 
Meat    and    Nut    Croquettes, 
Sweet    Bread    Ramekin. 
Pepper  Soufflee. 
Creamed    Cauliflower. 
Scalloped   Tomatoes. 
Croustade   of  Asparagus. 
Savory    Rechaufee. 


Sauces. 


VThite  Cream  Sauce. 
Sauce    for    Vegetables. 
Brown   Sauce   No.   1. 
Brown  Sauce  No.  2. 
Tomato    Sauce. 
Sauce  for  Fish   No.  1. 


Sauce  for  Fish  No. 
Bernaise   Sauce. 
Hollandaise  Sauce. 
Poulette   Sauce. 
Alemonde  Sauce. 


Sweet  Sauces  for  Puddings  and  Other  Desserts. 


Foamy    Sauce. 

Solid  or  Hard   Sauce. 

Fruit  Sauce. 


Marshmallow   Sauce. 
Sunshine  Sauce. 


yticat  anb  Vegetable     £n trees, 

t^W  i^t  ^T*  Q^* 

Beef  with  Tomatoes, 

Cut  small  rounds  from  steak  or  roast  and  saute  in  but- 
ter. Take  thickly  sliced  tomatoes  and  bits  of  fat  or 
suet  and  heat  together.  Serve  the  rounds  in  a  fiat  dish 
with  a  little  glaze  rubbed  over  the  top  and  a  piece  of 
tomato  and  suet  on  top.  Also  work  some  butter  with 
a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  and  onion  juice,  if  de- 
sired, into  a  little  flat  cake,  cut  small  rounds  from  it 
and  place  one  on  each  round  of  beef.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Grilled  Beef  with  Capsicum  Sauce. 

Select  a  nice  rump  steak,  season  with  onion  juice, 
pepper  and  salt,  rub  over  with  melted  butter  and  broil 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Eub  over  with  glaze  and 
serve  with  capsicum  sauce. 

Capsicum  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar,  one  tablespoon 
of  glaze,  two-thirds  cup  of  brown  sauce,  two  sliced 
tomatoes,  the  seeds  from  a  capsicum,  a  dessert  spoon 
each  of  French  and  English  mustard,  a  teaspoon  of 
chutney,  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and 
add  two  chopped  capsicums  after  removing  the  seeds. 

49 


50  Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes. 

Beef  Cutlets  with  Vegetables. 

Cut  rounds  from  fillet  of  beef.  Broil,  serve  on  rounds 
cf  toast  with  a  spoonful  of  asparagus  tips  or  green 
peas. 

Balced  Liver. 

Season  well  some  lardoons  with  chopped  onions,  rec! 
and  hlack  pepper,  allspice  and  salt.  Lard  a  liver  mak- 
ing it  attractive  in  appearance.  Dust  over  with  flour, 
put  in  a  skillet  one-half  full  of  boiling  water.  Bake 
until  tender  and  brown. 

Croustades  of  Ham  ivith  Cheese. 

To  one  cupful  of  grated  or  chopped  boiled  ham  add 
two  tablespoons  each  of  cream  and  grated  American 
cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  rounds  from 
slices  of  bread  one  inch  thick;  fry  in  hot  fat  or  saute 
in  butter,  spread  them  with  ham  and  cheese  mixture, 
sprinkle  over  with  grated  cheese,  cook  in  a  hot  oven 
until  cheese  is  melted  and  browned  slightly. 

Brain  Tirribals. 

Parboil  one  set  of  calf  brains  and  mmce  fine.  Blanch 
and  chop  twelve  almonds  fine  and  mix  with  brains. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  white  of  five  eggs 
very  stiff  and  fold  into  the  mixture.  Butter  some  small 
molds  well  and  fill  one-half  full.  Steam  until  firm  to 
the  touch.  XJnmould  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce  with 
a  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce  added. 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  CiiVinarij  Crinl'les.  -"1 

Brain  Cutlets. 

Parboil  brains.  Mix  with  a  heavy  cream  sauce. 
WTien  cold  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  and 
fry  a  delicate  brown. 

Brain  and  ChicJcen  Patties. 

Parboil  brains,  chop  fine  and  mix  with  them  an 
equal  portion  of  ground  cooked  chicken,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  ad'd  enough  slightly  beaten  egg  to 
hold  mixture  together.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smok- 
ing hot  fat.     Serve  piping  hot  on  folded  napkin. 

Maryland  CJiichen  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour. 
One-half  cup  of  butter. 
Three  eggs. 

Three  cups  of  new  milk. 
One  broiling  sized  chicken. 
Cut  the  chicken   and    season   for  frying.     Make   a 
light  batter  of  the  above  ingredients.     Pour  the  batter 
into  a  baking  dish   and  lay  the  chicken  through  the 
batter. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  an  open  baking  dish. 

Louisville. 

South  Carolina  ChicJcen. 

Cut  and  prepare  chicken  for  frying.  Poll  in  egg, 
then  in  crumJjs  that  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Put  the  chicken  in  a  baking  dish  wdth  a  tea- 


52  Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinTcles. 

spoon  of  butter  on  each  piece  of  chicken.  Bake  until 
tender  and  brown.  Serve  with  small  green  peppers 
stuffed  with  peas. 

Casserole  of  Chicken. 

Pick  and  singe  a  nice  fat  chicken,  truss  as  for  brais- 
ing, rub  over  with  butter  and  put  in  a  casserole  wiui 
one  and  one-half  pints  of  well  seasoned  stock  made  from 
game  or  poultry  bones.  A  little  bacon  in  the  stock  is 
an  addition.  Two  wine  glasses  of  sherry  mixed  with 
a  tablespoon  of  arrow-root,  and  a  teaspoon  of  glaze.  A 
bunch  of  herbs,  a  little  onion,  one  or  two  fresh  mush- 
rooms (if  you  have  them)  all  tied  together  in  a  piece  of 
muslin.  Cook  for  thirty  or  forty  minutes  basting  fre- 
quently. Add  more  stock  if  necessary.  Eemove  muslin 
'bag.    Strain  off  <the  fat  and  serve  in  casserole. 

Chichen  a  la  King  No.  1. 

Cut  in  squares  one-half  dozen  fresh,  white  mush- 
rooms, cut  one  medium-size  green  pepper  into  small 
dice,  cook  both  together  in  butter  until  tender. 
Add  the  breast  of  tenderly  cooked  chicken,  cut 
into  one-half  inch  squares,  moisten  with  one-half  cup 
of  rich  cream  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Add  two  cups 
of  bernaise  sauce,  cook  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil. 

Bemaise  Sauce. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  three  small  onions  chopped,  six 
pepper  cones,  one  bay  leaf,  a  small  sprig  of  thyme; 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  53 

moisten  with  one-fourth  cup  of  white  wine  and  one- 
fourth  cup  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Cook  until  almost  dry, 
add  one  tablespoon  of  thick  cream  and  the  yolks  of 
three  raw  eggs,  cook  over  hot  water  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  then  add  three  tablespoons  of  butter  aud  stir 
constantly  until  well  blended.  Season  with  salt^  cayenne 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  strain  and  add  one  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley. 

The  Seelbach,  Louisville,  Ky. 

Chid' en  a  la  King  No.  2. 

Cut  a  chicken  that  has  been  boiled  until  tender  into 
strips  or  cubes.  Parboil  one  set  of  svreet  breads  and 
pull  to  pieces,  cook  one  small  can  of  trufHes  and  one 
of  mushrooms  in  butter  until  tender.  Make  a  sauce 
of  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  of  flour  and  one-half 
cup  each  of  stock  and  cream,  season  and  pour  over 
the  chicken,  sweet  breads,  truffles  and  mushrooms. 
Serve  on  toast  and  garnish  with  strips  of  green  peppers 
and  pimentos. 

Chicken  A  La  King  No.  3. 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  saucepan  and  cook 
with  it  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion,  one-half  dozen 
fresh  mushrooms,  cut  in  pieces  and  one  tablespoon  of 
chopped  pimentos,  add  one  cup  of  sweet  cream  an" 
boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
stirring  all  (the  while  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  add 
three  cups  of  diced  chicken ;  a  little  Madeira  wine  is  an 
improvement.     Serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 


54  Cal-e^  Candy  and  Cidinai-y  Crinldes. 

C1iicl-en  Cutlets  with  Garnish  of  Peas  and  Potatoes. 

Use  receipt  for  chicken  cutlets  on  page  108  of  ^^Wliat 
to  Cook  and  Hovv^  to  Cook  If  or  use  chicken  croquette 
receipt,  shaping  as  cutlets,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and 
crumbs^  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Garnish  around  edge  with 
a  pipiiig  of  potatoes,  prepared  as  for  a  garnish  (page 
68  in  Cook  Book).  Put  small  green  French  peas,  pre- 
viously cooked  and  seasoned,  in  center  with  a  bit  of 
parsley  as  a  garnish. 

Imperial  Cream  Chichen. 

Butter  well  cutlet  molds  and  fill  with  creamed  chick- 
ed. Cook  over  hot  water  until  firm.  Turn  out  and 
cover  over  vrith  a  heavy  cream  sauce.  Place  a  large 
crouton  in  the  center  of  dish,  put  boiled  potatoes,  well 
mashed  and  creamed,  around  to  form  a  border.  Stand 
the  cutlets  around  the  crouton  and  press  a  puree  of 
peas  between  each  cutlet,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 
Place  a  fancy  skewer  in  top  of  crouton. 

Chiclcen  and  Oyster  Timlal. 

To  two  cups  of  ground,  cooked  chicken  (using  white 
meat  only),  add  three-fourths  cup  of  well  seasoned 
sauce,  and  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Steam  one-half  pint  of 
oysters,  drain  well.  Grease  timbal  m^oulds  of  plain  or 
fancy  shape,  tin  or  porcelain,  half  fill  them  with  chick- 
en mixture,  make  depressions  in  the  center,  pushing 
the  mixture  around  the  sides  of  mould  until  it  reaches 
nearly  to  the  top.     Drop  an  oyster  in  the  center  and 


Calte,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  55 

cover  well  with  the  chicken  mixture,  filling  the  mould. 
Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  cover  over  with  tin  top. 
Cook  until  firm  to  the  touch.  Serve  with  cream  gauee 
with  chopped  steamed  oyeters  added. 

Chicken  and  Nut  Timhal.  . 

Use  receipt  for  chicken  and  oyster  timhal,  substitu- 
ting nuts  (chopped  almonds,  pecans,  or  hickory  nuts) 
for  oysters.  Cook  in  the  same  way  and  serve  with 
plain  cream  sauce  or  nuts  can  be  added.  If  the  light 
and  dark  meat  is  used  in  making  timbal  or  all  dark 
m.eat,  use  Brown  'Sauce  ]^o.  1  or  No.  2  with  it.  Peas 
or  mushrooms  can  be  used  in  the  place  of  nuts.  If 
peas  are  used  serve  peas  with  the  timbal :  if  mushrooms, 
add  some  of  them  to  the  sauce  used. 

Meat  and  Nut  Croquettes. 

To  one  cup  of  ground  meat  add  one  full  tablespoon 
of  finely  chopped  almonds  (other  nuts  can  be  used), 
stir  into  this  one  unbeaten  Qgg,  season,  put  over  hot 
water  and  cook  until  the  e^^g  is  cooked,  cool,  shape,  roll 
in  crumbs,  ^gg  and  crumbs  and  fry  a  delicate  brovm. 

Swed  Bread  Eamehin. 

Make  a  sauce  of  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  ane 
tablespoon  of  flour,  add  two  cups  of  chicken  stock,  cook 
until  it  thickens,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  with 
one  cup  of  rich  milk  or  light  cream,  and  cook  over 
hot  water  until  it  thickens.     Season  with  salt,  cayenne 


56  Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes. 

and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Pour  over  sweet  breads 
that  have  been  boiled  and  cut  in  pieces.  Put  mix- 
ture in  ramekins.  Sprinkle  over  the  top  buttered 
crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

Pepper  Soujflee. 

Parboil  six  medium  sized  sweet  green  peppers,  grind 
or  chop  fine,  add  the  grated  corn  from  six  medium 
sized  ears  of  corn,  one-fourth  cup  of  heavy  cream  and 
one  tablespoon  (scant)  of  tomato  sauce,  add  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  slightly  beaten,  season  with  salt  and  fold 
in  stiffy  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Cook  in  buttered  tim- 
bal  moulds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  firm,  about  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  tom^ato  or  other 
sauce. 

Creamed  Cauliflower. 

Cook  head  of  cauliflower  by  boiling  in  an  uncovered 
vessel  until  tender,  drain  and  pour  on  a  cream  dressing 
m.ade  as  follows:  Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  and 
one  full  tablespoon  of  flour  together.  Add  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs  beaten  light  and  two  cups  of  warm  milk 
Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
one  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  milk,  cream  or  stock.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  one-half  of  it  in  a  bak- 
ing dish.     Set  six  or  eight  small  firm  tomatoes  in  the 


Cal-c,  Candy  and  Culinanj  CrinMes. 

sauce,  pour  the  rest  of  sauce  over  the  top,  sprinkle  over 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 

Cronstade  of  Asparagus. 

Cut  the  crust  edges  from  a  loaf  of  bread ;  cut  at  in- 
tervals small  pieces  one-fourth  inch  wide  from  the  sides 
and  ends,  cut  out  the  center  leaving  an  edge  thre-e- 
fourtli  of  an  inch  wide  around,  toast,  brush  over  with 
butter  and  fill  the  small  cuts  at  the  side  with  chopped 
parsley,  fill  the  loaf  with  cooked  asparagus  tips,  serve 
with  a  cream  sauce  that  has  had  the  yolk  of  an  egg  idd- 
ed. 

Savorij  I^ecliaufee, 

Use  any  cold  meat  cut  into  dice  and  mix  with  it  the 
following  sauce :  Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  one  cup  of  stock  and  one  cup  of 
cream..  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Separate  the  yolks 
from  three  hard  boiled  eggs  and  press  through  a  sieve 
and  add  to  the  sauce. 

Serve  the  mixture  on  rounds  of  toast  with,  the  whites 
of  egg  chopped  fine  and  sprinkled  over.  Any  cooked 
meat  or  a  combination  of  meats  with  mushrooms  add- 
ed can  be  used  in  this  way. 

■Chicken,  veal  and  sweet  breads  are  especially  nice. 


5 


duces* 

t^     C^      (£?•     C^ 


Butter  and  flour  cooked  together  is  called  a  roux 
and  form  the  basis  of  most  sauces ;  to  this  base  is  added 
the  seasoning  to  suit  the  dish  with  which  it  is  to  be 
served;  if  it  is  to  be  used  with  meats,  vegetables,  spices 
and  herbs  are  added ;  for  entrees,  sauce  made  from  stock, 
white  or  brown;  for  vegetables,  cream  sauce  with  eggs. 
For  fish,  the  same  sauce  with  lemon  juice,  vinegar  or 
some  piquant  catsup  added. 

Sauces  greatly  improve  the  dish  they  accompany 
and  are  easily  made. 

Brown  sauce  requires  long,  slow  cooking  to  blend  the 
flavors;  if  vegetable  flavor  is  desired,  chop  and  fry 
them  in  the  butter  to  be  used  in  making  the  sauce; 
if  the  butter  should  rise  to  the  top,  add  a  little  more 
liquid  and  stir  until  it  boils  when  it  will  become 
smooth.  In  making  roux,  the  sam.e  proportion  of  butter 
and  flour  is  used.  If  more  butter  is  required,  add  in 
small  bits  at  a  time,  after  the  other  ingredients  are 
put  in.  The  simplest  sauce  made  and  the  one  more 
frequently  used  is  the  white  or  cream  rumpp.. 

58 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  uUnaryq  Crinkles.  59 

White  Cream  Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk  or  cream.  Cook  the  butter  until  it 
bubbles,  add  flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  add  milk 
gradually  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Stock  can  be  used  instead  of  milk,  or 
half  stock  and  half  milk.  A  very  good  sauce  can  be 
made  using  water  and  yolk  of  one  egg  added  but  not  al- 
lowed to  boil  afiterwards.  Different  seasonings  can  be 
added  which  give  a  variety  to  the  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Vegetables. 

Use  the  proportions  of  butter  and  flour  for  cream 
sauce  and  add  one  cup  of  water  in  which  vegetables 
were  cooked.  Add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Brown  Sauce  No.  1. 

Cook  one  tablespoon  of  butter  until  it  bubbles,  add 
one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  cook  until  quite  browTi,  add 
one  cup  of  milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  strain  if  necessary. 

Brown  Sauce  No.  2. 

Put  one  tablespoon  each  of  celery,  onion  and  carrot 
cut  into  small  pieces,  into  a  saucepan,  with  one  table- 
spoon of  butter  (the  butter  to  be  used  in  making  the 
sauce),  cook  slowly  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Add 
one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  cook  until  brown.    Then  add 


60  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJdcs. 

one  cup  of  stock,  cook  until  it  thickens,  strain  and  sea- 
son; cItj  'herbs  can  be  added  with  the  vegetables  and 
milk  used,  instead  of  stock  or  half  stock  and  half  milk. 
The  proportion  of  vegetables  used  is  determined  by  the 
taste  of  the  person  using  it.  More  or  less  of  any  one  of 
the  vegetables,  or  other  vegetables  can  be  added,  or  sub- 
stituted; parsley,  bayleaf,  thyme  and  marjoram,  and 
g-ummer  savory  are  the  herbs  used.  Spices  are  often  used 
and  are  an  addition  when  served  with  certain  meats. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Cook  one  can  of  tomatoes  with  a  slice  of  onion,  a 
sprig  of  parsley  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf  for  ten  or  twelve 
minutes;  strain,  cook  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  until  it  bubbles,  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour 
f  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  add  the  strained  tomatoes 
and  cook.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Sauce  for  Fish  No.  1. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  cook  until  it  bubbles,  add 
one  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  add  one  and 
one-half  cup  of  white  stock  (chicken  or  fish)  and  stir  un- 
til it  begins  to  thicken,  add  just  before  removing  from 
the  fire  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  slightly  beaten,  season, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  when  slightly  cool,  add  one 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice. 

Sauce  for  Fish,  No.  2. 

Use  mayonnaise  dressing,  made  with  one-half  tarragon 
vinegar  and  one-half  lemon  juice.     Add  one  teaspoon 


Cal'G^  Candy  and  Culinary  rinUes.  61 

each  of  chopped  olives,  pickles  and  capers.  Enfold 
whipped  cream,  one-half  cup  of  cream  to  one  cup  of 
mayonnaise. 

Bernaise  Sauce. 

Cook  one-half  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  little  chopped 
onion  together  until  it  is  reduced  one-half.  Add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  very  slowly.  V7hen  it  thickens  add 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  each  cf  clarified  butter 
and  oil,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  peppor  and  salt.  Servo 
with  fish  and  tenderloin  cutlets. 

HoUandaise  Sauce. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  and  beat  well  together.  Season  with  the 
juice  of  one-half  lemon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  cayenne.  Add  slowly  one  cup  of  hot  water  and 
cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  all  the  whili2  until  thick. 
Do  not  let  it  boiL     Serve  as  soon  as  made. 

PcuIeUe  Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
chicken  stock,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  yolk  of  one  egg 
slightly  beaten. 

Ahmonde  Sauce. 

Make  a  white  sauce  and  just  before  removing  from 
the  fire  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  one-half 
cup  of  milk  or  cream.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken 
ih.en  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  well,  adding  a  dash 
cf  nutmeg  and  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 


Sweet  Sauces  for  "puiftlngs  artb 

Ot^er  Ti)e55ert5* 

Ci^*   C^*   fe?*   5^* 

Foamy  Sauce 

Beat  the  white  and  yolk  of  one  egg  separately  until 
yery  light.  Add  one-fourth  cup  of  pulverized  sugar 
to  yolks,  and  beat  well.  One-fourth  cup  to  the  whites. 
Combine  the  two,  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  sherry 
wine.    Fold  in  one  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Solid  or  Hard  Sauce. 

Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  until  light,  add  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  beat  hard  until  very  light,  flavor  with  vanil- 
la, almond  ,  wine  or  other  flavoring.  Put  in  a  cool  place 
to  harden  and  fold  in  the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  stiff. 
If  color  is  wanted,  use  the  yolk  of  egg  beaten  in  with 
the  butter  and  sugar. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

To  one  cup  of  fruit  juice  add  sugar  enough  to  sweet- 
en. Dissolve  one  level  tablespoon  of  arrow-root  in  two 
tablespoons  of  water.  Heat  the  fruit  juice  and  add  the 
arrow-root  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Juice  extracted 
from  fresh  fruit  the  syrup  drained  from  canned  fruits, 

62 


Cal'c,  Candy  and  Culinary  CiinJcIes.  63 

or  a  eorn'bination  of  fruit  juices  can  be  used.     Some 
finely  chopped  fruit  added  to  the  sauce  is  an  addition. 

Marshmallow  Sauce, 

Cook  ono  cup  of  granulated  sugar  in  a  skillet  until 
melted,  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  to 
a  syrup;  pour  it  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.  Melt  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  Marshmallows 
ovGT  hot  water  and  pour  into  the  sauce,  or  cut  them  up 
fine  and  add  to  the  sauce  while  hot.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla. 

Sunshine  Sauce. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  light.  Two  cups  of 
sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  water  boiled  together;  just 
before  it  reaches  the  thread  stage,  pour  one-third  of 
it  slowly  over  the  yolks  beating  all  the  while.  Cook 
syrup  to  thread  stage  and  pour  the  -second  third  over 
eggs,  beating  constantly.  The  remaining  third  cook 
to  alm.ost  the  caramel  stage  and  pour  all  of  it  at  once 
over  eggs  and  beat  nard.  Con»tinue  to  beat  until  creamy, 
flavor  with  orange,  vanilla  or  sherry.  Combine  whipped 
cream  and  use  for  plum  pudding  or  ice  cream.  This 
sauce  ccn^bined  with  very  stiff  icing,  makes  a  delicious 
fillins"  for  cake. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Breads  and  Sandwiches  for  Afternoon  Teas. 
Ways  of  Preparing  Butter. 


CHAPTER  IV. 


Brearls    ancl    Sandwiches    for   Afternoon    Teas. 


y«ast  Bread. 
Quick   Yeast. 
Yeast  Foam. 
Water  Bread  No.  1. 
Water  Bread  No.  2. 
Plain    White   Loaf. 
Y'east   Biscuit. 
To  Make  the  Yeast. 
Luncheon  Rolls. 
German    Coft'ee   Bread. 
English   Muffins. 
Salt  Rising   No.  1. 
Salt  Rising  No.  2. 


Oat  Meal  Brown  Bread. 

Quick    Graham    Bread. 

Nut    Bread    No.    1. 

Nut  Bread  No.  2. 

Nut  Bread  No.  3. 

Potato  Scones. 

Scones  No.  1. 

Cones  No.  2. 

Quick  Sally  Liino. 

Sally  Luna. 

Rice  and   Nut  Muffins. 

Bice  Muffins. 

Ways  of  Preparing  Butter. 


Sandwiches. 


Bread   and   Butter   Crisps. 
Bread   and   Butter  Loaf. 
White      and      Brown      Bread 

Sandwiches. 
Rolled  Sandwich. 


Dream  Sandvrich. 
Tomato    Sandwich. 
Pate-De-Fois-Gras. 
Sandwich  Fillings. 


'jbvcab  anb  San6wict)e5  for  ^Vftcrttoon 

Oeas. 

J*  ^  s  -J^ 
Yeasi  Bread. 

In  making  yeast  bread  there  are  three  things  to  be 
considered,  time,  quantity,  temperature.  The  temper- 
ature for  obtaining  the  best  results  is  from  75  to  80 
degrees,  this  hovrever  is  governed  by  the  quantity  of 
yeast  used  and  the  time  to  be  used  in  making.  Vrhen 
the  bread  is  made  over  night  or  in  the  morning  for  the 
evening  meal,  use  a  smaller  quantity  of  yeast  than 
■when  four  of  five  hours  are  required  for  making.  The 
yeast  life  is  killed  at  a  moist  heat  of  140  degrees  F. 
or  a  dry  heat  of  212  degrees  F.,  it  will  survive  freezing 
at  32  degrees  F.  and  placed  under  favorable  conditions 
again  will  grow  and  thrive.  The  receipts  given  in  this 
chapter  are  to  be  made  in  four  to  six  hours,  if  more 
tim.e  is  neec^ed  use  less  yeast  or  let  the  bread  rise  in  a 
cooler  temperature  50  to  60  degrees.  Always  brush 
over  tops  of  the  bread  or  rolls  vvith  lard  or  butter  or 
if  wanted  a  glazed  appearance,  sweet  milk  mixed  with 
the  yolk  of  an  ^^^  added,  or  beat  one  egg  until  blended, 
add  water  and  brush  over  with  this;  for  buns,  rusks, 
coffee  bread  use  milk  with  a  little  sugar  dissolved  in 
it,  then  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top.     Coffee  bread  ia 

67 


68  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinhles. 

often  served  with  raisins  and  nmts  added  to  batter,  and 
cinnamon,  sugar  and  butter  made  into  a  paste  and 
spread  over.  The  top  can  be  made  ornamental  by 
pressing  split  almonds  and  other  nuts  into  the  cinna- 
mon paste  in  some  design. 

Quiclc  Yeast. 

One  cup  of  boiled  Irish  potatoes  mashed,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one  full  tablespoon  of  salt,  one 
cake  of  yeast  and  three  pints  of  lukewarm  water.  Let 
stand  in  a  warm  place  until  it  is  filled  with  air  bubbles, 
use  enough  of  this  liquid  to  mix  the  quantity  of  flour 
you  desire  to  make  into  bread.  This  same  receipt  cati 
be  used  and  a  heavy  sponge  m^ade  by  using  less  water. 

Yemt  Foam. 

Peel  four  or  five  good  sized  potatoes  and  boil  them 
with  three-fourths  cup  of  loose  hops  tied  in  a  muslin 
bag.  Cover  them  well  with  water  and  cook  until  the 
potatoes  are  tender.  Drain  and  reserve  the  water. 
Mash  the  potatoes  and  return  them  to  the  water  and 
mix  them  well  together.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  flour, 
one-fourth  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  full  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  add  enough  flour 
to  make  a  thin  batter.  TMien  lukewarm  add  one-half 
yeast  cake.  Mix  well  and  place  in  a  stone  jar.  Set  in 
a  warm  place  for  twelve  hours.  Stir  it  tv>-o  or  three 
times  during  that  time.  Set  in  a  cool  place.  Use  one 
cup  of  this  to  one  quart  of  flour  in  making  bread. 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes.  69 

Water  Bread  No.  1. 

Pour  over  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  scant  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
two  cups  of  warm  water,  add  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolv- 
ed in  one-fourth  eup  of  lukewarm  water,  stir  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  'hatter  and  beat  eight  or  ten 
minutes.  Put  in  a  bread  bowl,  eover  over  well  to  exclude 
the  air,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  it  has 
doubled  its  bulk,  heat  again  a  few  minutes.  Shape  into 
loaves,  filling  the  pan  half  full,  brush  over  the  top 
with  pastry  brush  dipped  in  water.  Cover,  let  rise  until 
light.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven,  fifty  or  sixty  min- 
utes 

Water  Bread  No.  2. 

This  is  the  simplest  bread  made  and  is  very  satis- 
factory. Does  not  require  kneading  or  beating  and  only 
one  rising  and  takes  just  two  and  one-half  or  three 
hours  for  making  and  baking.  Dissolve  one  and  one- 
half  yeast  cakes  in  one-third  cup  of  warm  water  and 
add  it  to  four  cups  of  warm  water  and  one  tablespoon 
of  salt,  warm  eight  cups  flour  and  add  the  liquid  to 
the  flour.  If  this  quantity  of  flour  is  not  sufficient  to 
m.ake  a  soft  dough  use  a  little  more,  knead  just  enough 
to  make  smooth.  Shape  into  loaves,  grease  the  pan 
in  which  it  is  to  be  baked.  Grease  over  the  top  of 
bread,  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  about  one  and  one- 
half  hours,  bake  one  hour. 


70  CoJce,  Candy  and  Cidxnary  Crinl'hs. 

Plain  White  Louf. 

One-half  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  butter,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one 
cup  each  of  water  and  milk,  one  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  or  one  cup  of  liquid  yeast.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  butter,  lard,  sugar  and  salt,  add  milk.  Vvlien  cool 
add  the  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of  luke- 
warm water  or  one  cup  of  liquid  yeast,  stir  in  enougli 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  knead  until  light  and  elas- 
tic. Put  in  a  bowl,  grease  over  the  top  with  softened 
or  melted  lard,  cover  well,  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  un- 
til it  has  doubled  its  bulk,  cut  down,  rise  again,  shape 
into  loaves,  grease  over  top,  let  rise  and  bake  forty-five  or 
fifty  minutes. 

Yeast  Biscuit, 

Five  cups  of  flour,  one  and  thre-fourths  cups  of  but- 
ter or  sour  milk,  one  -teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
sugar  and  one  large  tablespoon  of  lard,  one-half  cup  of 
yeast,  three-fourths  teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix  with  one-half 
of  the  flour  the  lard,  sugar,  s^lt,  milk  and  yeast.  Set 
in  a  warm  place  for  seven  or  eight  hours,  then  beat  in 
the  soda,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  flour;  knead  well,  roll 
out,  cut  into  shape,  brush  over  the  top  with  melted  but- 
ter; let  rise  about  thirty  minutes  and  bake  quickly. 

To  Male  the  Yeast. 

Mix  with  two  cups  of  boiled  mashed  potatoes  one-half 
Clip  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-cup  of  flour; 


Cake,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinldes. 

beat  well  togetlier  and  add  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
one  cup  of  warm  water.  Put  in  a  glas  jar,  cover  'tight 
and  set  in  a  warm  place.    It  will  rise  in  one  hour. 

Luncheon  Bolls. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  hutter  and  lard  m.ixed,  one  cup 
of  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  of  s^alt,  one  cup  of  warm  milk, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  cup  of  lukew^arm  water.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place,  when  very  light  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
d-ough,  knead  only  until  smooth,  grease  over  the  top. 
Cover  closely,  set  in  a  warm  place  and  let  rise  until 
it  has  doubled  its  bulk,  roll  out,  cut  into  rounds,  grease 
over  top,  fold  together  pressing  the  edges  closely,  grease 
over  top,  put  in  baking  pan  one  inch  apart,  let  rise  un- 
til very  light  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  ISTuts  or  raisins  or  both  can  be  added  to 
this  bread  when  the  last  flour  is  put  in. 

German  Coffee  Bread. 

Make  a  sponge  of  one  cup  of  lukewarm  milk,  one- 
half  yeast  cake,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour, 
let  rise  until  light  in  warm  place.  Add  one  cup  of 
■butter  melted,  four  eggs  beaten  together  until  light,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  flour  to  make  a  very  soft  dough. 
Let  rise  until  light  or  until  it  has  doubled  its  bulk, 
shap3  into  rolls,  or  rounds  or  fit  into  muffin  rings 
cr  squares  or  round  cake  pans;  let  rise  again,  spread 


72  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJcles. 

over  the  top  with  melted  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamoD 
mixed  together  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

English  Muffins. 

Scald  two  cups  of  milk,  pour  it  over  one-half  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cool  and 
add  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of  luke- 
warm water,  add  one  egg  beaten  light  and  two  cups 
of  flour,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  very  light 
place  in  rings  on  a  greased  griddle  and  set  on  back  of 
stove  for  twenty  minutes.  Move  griddle  to  a  hot  part  of 
stove  and  cook  the  muffins  until  brown  on  one  side,  turn 
and  brown  the  other,  split  and  toast. 

Salt  Fiising  No.  1. 

Bcald  one  cup  of  fresh  sweet  milk.  While  milk  is 
warm  add  two  full  tablespoons  of  unsifted  meal.  Cover 
well  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Tlie 
next  morning  add  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  soda  and 
salt,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  warm  water 
with  flour  enough  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter.  Set 
to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  risen  make  into  a 
dough  with  three  quarts  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of 
salt,  two  full  tablespoons  of  lard  and  equal  parts  of 
warm  water  and  milk.  Let  it  rise  until  light.  Knead 
well  and  make  into  loaves.    Let  rise  anc!  bake. 

(Mrs.  Pioberc  Parker.) 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinanj  Crinkles.  73 

Salt  Rising  No.  2. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  one  medium  sized  potato.  Sprin- 
kle over  it  one  full  tabl-espoon  of  unsifted  meal,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Pour 
over  this  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cover  well  and 
Jet  stand  over  night  in  a  warm  place.  The  next  morn- 
ing strain  and  add  to  the  w^ater  flour  enough  to  make 
a  light  sponge.  Add  also  a  pinch  of  soda  and  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Set  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water.  When 
it  rises  make  into  a  dough  using  three  quarts  of  flour, 
three  rounding  tablespoons  of  lard  and  warm  water  and 
milk.  Knead  w^ell  and  shape  into  loaves.  Let  rise  and 
bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

(Mrs.  John  Howell.) 

Oat  Meal  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  of  graham  flour,  three-fourths  cup  of  corn 
meal,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  two  cups  of  Quaker  oats, 
one  slightly  rounded  teaspoon  of  soda,  three-fourth  cup 
of  molasses,  two  cups  of  sour  milk.  Mix  drv  ingredi- 
ents, add  molasses  and  milk;  steam  two  hours  in  a 
buttered  mould. 

QuicJc  Graham  Bread. 

Two  cups  of  graham  and  one  cup  of  white  flour,  one- 
third  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  three  slightly 
rounding  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Mix  with  one 
and  one-thirdl  cups  of  sweet  milk,  bake  in  a  loaf  pan 


74  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  CrinUcs. 

foxty-five  minutes;  a  cup  of  nuts  or  dates  can  be  added 
if  desired. 

Nut  Bread  No,  1. 

Mix  one  cupful  of  lukewarm  mush,  one-fourth 
of  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  table- 
spoon of  butter;  then  add  one-rourth  of  a  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  one-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  luke- 
warm water  and  flour  to  knead.  Cover  and  let  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  cut  down,  toss  on  a  floured 
board  and  knead,  incorporating  during  the  kneading 
one  cupful  of  English  walnut  meats  cut  in  pieces. 
Shape  in  a  loaf,  put  in  buttered  bread  pans,  let  rise 
again  and  bake  fifty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Nut  Bread  No.  2. 

One  egg,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  five  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  full 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one 
cup  of  chopped  nuts,  pecans,  English  walnuts  or  hickory 
nuts.  Sift  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  to- 
gether, add  the  nuts,  beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  milk, 
mix  with  dry  ingredients  into  a  soft  dough.  Bake  in 
a  greased  mould  sixty  minutes ;  raisins  can  be  added  to 
bread  instead  of  nuts  of  one-half  cup  of  each. 

Nut  Bread  No.  3. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sugar, 
two    slightly    rounding    teaspoons    of   baking    powder, 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  75 

three-fourth  cup  of  nuts,  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  on*^- 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  as  No.  2, 
let  stand  in  pan  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  bakinr;, 
bake  forty  minutes. 

Xut  bread  can  be  cooked  in  muffin  rings  and  served 
hot  with  chocolate,  coffee  or  tea. 

Potato  Scorns. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  boiled, 
mashed  Irish  potatoes,  one-third  cup  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  three  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Mix  all  together  and  make  into  a  soft  dough 
with  one  egg  well  beaten  and  one-fourth  cup  of  milk, 
cut  into  rounds,  score  across  the  top;  bake  in  a  quick 
m^en  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  split  and  butter.  This 
receipt  can  he  divided  into  three  parts  and  filled  into 
ronnd  deep  pans,  or  cut  into  sm'aller  rounds  and  served 
as  individual  scones  and  are  especially  nice  to  serve  with 
tea,  coffee  or  chocolate. 

Scones  No.  1. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  two  level  teaspoons  of  baking 

powder,  sifted  together  several  times  vrith  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  put  into  this  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  mix 
with  enough  sweet  milk  to  bind  together.  Eoll  out, 
cut  into  rounds  and  bake  quickly.  One-half  cup  of 
raisins  can  be  added  if  desired.  Split  and  butter  while 
hot. 


76  Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUcs. 

Scones  No.  2. 

Three-foiirtlis  of  a  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  two 
unbeaten  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  two  cups  of 
flour,  two  cups  of  dry  oat  meal,  one  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, salt,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  nuts.  Mix  as 
cake,  bake  in  rounds,  split  and  butter  while  hot. 

Quiclc  Sally  Lunn. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separatel}^  three  tablespoons  of  su- 
gar, four  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.    Salt. 

Sally  Lnnn. 

One  ^gg,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of 
iugar,  three  tablespoons  of  yeast,  four  cups  of  flour. 
Mix  with  sweet  milk  or  creami  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Let  rise  twice.  Bake  in  round  shallow  pans  or  muf- 
fin rings.    Salt. 

Bice  and  Nut  Muffins. 

One  cup  of  boiled  rice,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  four  tablespoons  of  melted  but- 
ter, one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  two 


Calr,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinliles.  7T 

full  teaspoons  of  baking  povvder,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  one-third  cup  of  chopped  pecans.  Bake  in 
hot  greased  muffin  irons  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. 

Rice  Muffins, 

Two  cups  of  sifted  meal,  one  cup  of  boiled  rice,  two 
cups  of  butter  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  scant  tablespoon  of  salt,  two 
eggs  slightly  beaten.    Bake  in  hot  muffin,  irons. 

Ways  of  Preparing  Butter. 

Soften  the  butter  and  whip  until  light.  Insert  g 
star-shape  tube  into  a  rubber  cloth  bag,  put  in  the  but- 
ter and  press  it  into  little  rosettes.  Drop  them  in  ice 
water  until  ready  to  serve,  or  shape  into  w^.vy  oblongs 
one  and  one-half  inches  long.  Grooved  paddles  make 
pretty  shapes.  Wash  butter  well  and  when  cold,  roll 
a  small  quantity  between  paddles,  making  rounds  or 
oblongs.  There  are  different  utensils  on  the  market. 
with  directions  for  making  shells  and  pretty  shaved 
pieces. 


0^ 


-JS  J-S  S  v^ 

The  bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  fine  grain  and 
tender  and  a  day  or  two  old.  The  butter  creamed  or 
w^hipped  until  light  and  soft  enough  to  spread.  Cut 
the  bread  into  slices  and  then  shape^  butter  and 
spread  with  the  fillings  to  be  used.  Wrap  in  a  nap- 
kin, dipped  in  cold  water  and  wrung  dry.  Put  in 
a  cool  place.  They  can  be  cut  in  a  variety  of  shapes 
and  filled  witli  a  number  of  fillings,  stacking  some- 
times two,  three  or  four  slices  together  with  a  different 
filling  between  each  one  and  using  different  kinds  of 
bread  for  each  layer. 

Bread  and  Bntter  Crisps. 

Cut  the  cnists  from  a  square  loaf  of  fresh  baker's 
bread,  butter  on  end  of  loaf  and  cut  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible. Eoll  tight  and  pin  with  toothpick.  Bake  in 
oven  until  brown,  remove  toothpick.  One  loaf  will 
make  a  number  of  crisps. 

Bread  and  Butter  Loaf. 

'Cut  the  slices  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick  length- 
ways from  a  loaf  of  bread,  spread  both  sides  gener- 
ously with   softened  butter,   press   buttered  sides  to- 

78 


CaJce,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  79 

gether  until  the  loaf  is  its  original  size,  trim  off  the 
crust  edges,  put  on  a  platter  and  cover  with  another, 
pressing  slices  well  together.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and 
slice  as  you  would  .*  brick  layer  cake.  Brown  and 
white  bread  can  be  used  alternating  the  colors  and  the 
loaf  can  be  made  quite  ornamental  by  cutting  with  a 
tiny  round  or  other  shape  cutter  pieces  from  the  top 
of  the  loaf  and  inserting  stuffed  olives  or  pimento  cut 
into  the  same  shape  as  cutter,  add  a  bit  of  parsley 
before  the  olive  is  inserted,  the  olive  holding  it 
in  place  gives  a  pretty  effect.  Serve  on  oblong  platter 
with  a  border  of  shredded  lettuce. 

White  and  Brown  Bread  SandvAch. 

Cut  bread  into  thin  rounds,  spread  with  butter  and 
press  together  alternating  colors.  Different  fillings 
can  be  used  between  each  slice  which  gives  variety. 

Boiled  Sandwich. 

Use  bread  as  fresh  as  you  can  cut  well,  trim  off 
crust  edge,  spread  with  butter,  roll  on  wet  cloth. 
Slender  pieces  of  celery  cut  an  inch  or  more  longer 
than  the  slice  of  bread  and  the  ends  cut  in  small  strips 
and  placed  in  ice  water  to  curl,  wiped  dry  and  rolled 
into  bread  is  pretty  and  good. 


80  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlies. 

Dream  Sandwiches. 

Slice  white  bread'  quite  thin,  cut  in  shape,  spread 
with  cream  cheese,  press  together,  dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

Tomato  Sandwiches. 

Cut  bread  in  rounds,  spread  with  softened  butter. 
Put  a  slice  of  tomato,  sprinkled  over  with  shredded 
green  peppers,  tarragon  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt,  be- 
tween two  slices  and  press  together. 

Pate-De-Fois-Gras. 

Boil  twelve  chicken  livers.  Mash  to  a  pulp.  Add  a 
little  onion  juice,  four  or  five  drops  of  tobasco  sauce, 
yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter, 
vinegar  to  moisten  to  a  stiff  paste.  Fnr^i  into  a  loaf 
and  slice  when  cold.    Xice  for  sandwiches. 


Sart6wlcl)    •fillings* 

%£,-^  t^^  ^Z^  c^* 

Sandwicli  fillings  should  be  chopped  or  ground  and 
mixed  with  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressings.  There  are 
some  exceptions  to  this  where  slices  of  fruits  or  meats 
are  to  be  used.  The  dressing  or  mayonnaise  then  is 
spread  on  the  bread. 

Tomato  jelly  see  "What  to  Cook"  page  238,  moulded 
in  baking  powder  cans  and  sliced,  butter  bread  on  bo^th 
sides  and  put  slice  of  jelly  between. 

Chopped  Aspic  and  nuts. 
Chicken  and  nuts. 
Celery,  ot  celery  and  nutb- 
Shredded  green  peppers  and  chopped  almonds. 
American  Cheese  and  pimentos. 

Keufchatel  and  Philadelphia  cheese  with  nuts  and  pim- 
entos added. 
Pate-de-Fois-Gras. 
Cavair. 

Chopped  candied  fruits. 
Marmalades. 
Crystallized  ginger. 
Crystallized  orange  and  lemon  peel. 
Nuts,  dates  and  figs  ground  together. 

All  of  these  and  many  more  are  used  and  combined 
81 


82  Cal^e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes. 

to  suit  the  taste ;  a  little  chopped  celery  or  lettuce  is  an 
improvement  -to  almost  any  one  of  them. 

Any  cooked  meat  or  a  combination  of  meats,  with 
mushrooms  added,  can  be  used  in  this  way;  chicken, 
veal  and  sweet  breads  are  especially  nice. 


CHAPTER  \ 

Salads. 


CHAPTER  V. 


Salads. 


Salad    Dressing   No.    1. 

SSalad   Dressing   No.   2. 

Salad  Dressing   No.   3. 

Mustard  Mayonnaise. 

Marine    Dressing. 

French  Dressing. 

Fruit   Salad   Dressing, 

Mayonnaise. 

Jelly   Mayonnaise. 

Cliieken    Salad. 

Chicken   and   Nut  Salad. 

Sweet  Bread  and  Cucumber 
Salad. 

Tomato    and    Cheese    Salad. 

Frozen    Tomato   Salad. 

Celery  and  Nut  Salad. 

Celerv  and  Grape  Fruit 
Salad. 

Moulded  Pineapple  and  Cu- 
cumber Salad. 

Cheese  Salad. 


June  Apple  Salad  en  surprise 
bluffed  Tomato  Salad. 
Tomato    Pineapple    Salad. 
Tomato   and   Cheese    Salad. 
Bermuda   Salad. 
Asparagus  Salad. 
Green     Pepper     and     Cheese 

Salad. 
Fish   and  Pimento  Salad. 
Pineapple  and   Cheese. 
Cream  Cheese  and  Nut  Salad 
Jelly  for  Moulding  and  Gar- 

nishinc:  Fruit  Salads. 
Fruit  Salad. 

Grape    Fruit    Salad   No.   1. 
Grape   Fruit   Salad    No.   2. 
Marshmallow   Salad. 
Pineapple  Salad  with  Jelly. 
Fruit    Salad    with    a   Garnish 

of  Chopped  Jelly. 


Salads* 

Since  salads  can  be  used  in  each  day's  menu  the  year 
round,  it  is  desirable  to  have  a  variety  and  this  is  ob- 
tained by  different  combinations.  A  number  are  given 
with  some  suggestions  which  will  suggest  others. 

Lettuce  forma  the  foundation  for  nearly  all  salads. 
It  should  be  washed  in  cold  water  to  free  from  dust 
and  any  insect  which  is  sometimes  found.  Let  it  stand 
in  ice  water  until  crisp.  Shake  well  and  dry  in  a 
cloth  or  hang  in  a  wire  basket.  After  crisping  it,  if 
kept  in  a  cool  place  it  will  remain  crisp  for  some- 
time.   Celery  is  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Prepare  all  articles  for  salad  and  keep  th^em  in  a  cool 
place  and  combine  wdth  the  dressings  when  ready  for 
use. 

Salad  Dressing  No.  1. 

The  yolks  of  six  eggs  or  three  whole  eggs.  One  tea^ 
spoon  each  of  sugar,  salt  and  mustard,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon of  cayenne  pepper,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar.  Beat 
the  eggs,  add  -seasonings,  butter  and  cream,  add  vinegar 
last.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  VvTien  cold 
and  just  before  using,   fold   in  one  cup   of  whipped 

85 


86  Cal-c,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes. 

cream.     One-half  cup  of  oil  can  be  added  to  this  dress- 
ing when  cold,  but  if  oil  is  used,  leave  out  the  butter. 

Salad  Dressing  No.  2. 

Mix  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  mustard,  one 
egg  slightly  beaten,  one-fourth  cup  of  cream,  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens.  When 
cold  add  two  tablespoons  of  oil  and  one  cup  of  whipped 
cream. 

Salad  Dressing  No.  3. 

Two  cnps  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cup  of  oil,  six 
tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  one-fourth  cup  of  sherry, 
one-fourth  cup  of  brandy.  Mix  the  sugar  and  oil  to- 
gether, add  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  wine  and  brandy 
over  a  few  lumps  of  loaf  sugar  and  burn  it,  then  add 
to  the  dressing. 

Mustard  Mayonnmse. 

Two  tablespoons  of  mixed  French  mustard,  two  tea- 
spoons of  vinegar,  one-third  cup  of  oil,  one  teaspoon 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Marine  Dressing. 

One  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  table-spoon 
of  tomato  catsup,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  three 
tablespoons  of  oil,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste. 


CaJce,  Candy  and  Cnlinarij  CrinJdcs.  87 

French  Dressing. 

Mix  three  tablespoons  of  oil  and  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper  together;  stir 
until  it  becomes  a  little  thickened,  then  add  one  table- 
spoon of  vinegar  and  stir  until  it  thickens  and  assumes 
a  whitish  color.  Tarragon  vinegar  can  be  used  with  the 
wine,  or  cider  vinegar  and  gives  a  nice  flavor. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  to  this,  add  one 
teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  each 
of  mustard  and  paprika.  Put  in  double  boiler  two 
slightly  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  add  to  them  very  slowly, 
beating  constantly  four  tablespoons  of  plain  or  Tarra- 
gon vinegar,  and  cook  until  thick.  Eemove  from  fire 
and  add  butter  and  seasoning  and  beat  thoroughly.  Let 
get  perfectly  cold  and  when  ready  to  serve,  beat  in  the 
whip  from  three-fourths  cup  of  heavy  cream. 

Mrs.  Rutledge. 

MayQunaise. 

Mix  with  the  yolk  of  one  Qg^  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  or  paprika,  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon of  mustard  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Add 
very  slowly,  one  cupful  of  oil,  alternating  with  three 
tablespoons  of  lemon  juice.  Have  the  bowl  in  which  you 
mix  it  very  cold.  Vinegar  can  be  used  instead  of  lemon 
juice  or  half  and  half.     Som.e  prefer  the  e.gg  yolks 


88  Cake,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinllcs. 

cooked  and  mashed  fine  or  use  two  egg  yolks,  one 
cooked  and  one  uncooked.  Made  in  this  way  it  is  less 
apt  to  curdle.  This  dressing  is  made  more  delicate 
and  delicious  by  enfolding  one  cup  of  whipped  cream. 
If  a  colored  mayonnaise  is  wanted,  add  a  little  fruit 
coloring  <to  it. 

Jelly  Mayonnojise. 

The  proportions  are  the  same  as  the  above  receipt 
and  made  in  the  same  way  using  one  cup  of  liquid  aspic 
for  the  foundation  instead  of  the  yolks  of  eggs. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Chicken  to  be  used  for  salad  should  be  cooked  m 
salted  boiling  water  with  a  little  vinegar  added  and 
cooked  until  perfectly  tender,  ^^^len  cold,  pull  from 
the  bones  and  use  the  white  meat  only.  The  dirk 
meat  is  good  for  creamed  chicken,  timbals,  croquettes, 
etc.  Cut  the  meat  into  cubes,  not  too  small,  add  one- 
third  as  much  celery,  crisped  and  cut  in  same  size 
pieces  as  chicken.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
vinegar.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  or  cooked  <alad  dres^ 
ing  with  whipped  cream,  enfolded;  hard  boiled  oggs, 
i.uts  and  peppers  can  all  be  added  to  give  variety  to 
this  salad,  and  it  can  be  served  in  a  variety  of  ways.  A 
Y€iy  pretty  way  is  to  mould  aspic  with  bits  of  pimento 
in  a  border  monld.  Unmould  and  fill  the  center  with 
the  salad. 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  89 

Chid- en  and  Nut  Salad 

Cook  and  cut  the  white  meat  of  chickei  into  cube?, 
ad  5  one-third  as  much  celery  and  on3  mp  of  almonds 
blanched  and  toasted  a  delicate  brown.  Cut  a  g^^een 
bell  pepper  in  shreds  and  add.  Mix  all  \vith  mayonnaise 
or  salad  dressing.  Serve  in  a  round  on  platter  and 
form  a  border  of  triangular  pieces  cut  from  a  sheet  of 
aspic,  or  whip  cream  yery  stiff  and  put  in  a  pastry 
bag  with  star-shaped  tube  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
the  cream  pressed  through  the  tuba. 

Siueet  Bread  and  Cucumher  Salad. 

Boil  sweet  breads  until  tender;  remove  fibers,  when 
cold  cut  into  dice.  Mix  with  them  equal  parts  of 
cekry  and  one-third  as  much  cucumber  cut  in  pieces. 
Pour  on  French  dressing;  sen'e  in  small  rounds  of 
aspic  with  center  removed,  or  lemon  jelly  cups,  made 
by  moulding  jelly  in  small  round  moulds,  remove  cen- 
ter, unmould  and  fill  the  cavity  with  the  salad 

Tomato  and  Cheese  Salad. 

Peel  medium  sized  tomatoes,  cut  off  a  slice  from 
the  stem  end,  sprinkle  over  with  sugar,  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  a  teaspoon  of  salad  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
set  the  tomato  fi.at  side  up.  Mix  salad  dressing 
with  Philadelphia  cream  of  Neufchatel  cheese,  to  soften 
^'ell.  Put  in  a  pastr}^  bag  with  rose  point  tube  and 
press  a  rose  on  each  tomato. 


90  Calie,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlles. 

Frozen  Tomato  Salad. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  six  large  peeled  tomatoes.  Add 
one-fourth  as  much  finely  cut  celery,  one  large  cucum- 
ber cut  fine,  one  green  pepper  chopped,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  minced  onion,  one-half  teaspoon  of  grated 
horseradish,  one  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  pa- 
prica  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  with  one  cup  of  salad 
dressing  No.  1  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Serve  in  tomato  shells  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Celery  and  Nut  Salad. 

Cut  celery  into  shreds  one  inch  or  more  long,  and 
quite  thin,  add  blanched  almonds  slightly  toasted, 
mix  with  salad  dressing  No.  2.  Aspic  can  be  added 
to  this  and  is  delicious. 

Celery  and  Grape  Fruit  Salad, 

Shred  the  celery  as  for  above  receipt.  Add  grape 
fruit  pulled  from  the  skin  and  broken  into  pieces.  Mix 
with  salad  dressing  No.  3. 

Moulded  Pineapple  and  Cucumber  Salad. 

One  can  of  pineapple  and  one  cucumber  cut  into 
cubes,  three-fourths  cup  of  lemon  Juice,  one  cup  of  su- 
gar, three-fourths  box  of  gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine 
in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water.     Boil  lemon,  pineapple 


Cal'c,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  91 

juice  and  sugar  for  five  minutes  and  pour  over  the 
gelatine.  When  cool  and  'beginning  to  stiffen  add 
chopped  fruits.  Pack  in  a  mould,  unmould  and  serve 
with  salad  dressing. 

Cheese  Salad. 

Soak  two  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of 
water,  dissolve  in  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water.  When 
cool  and  beginning  to  set,  beat  into  this  one-half  cup 
of  whipped  cream,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup 
of  grated  cheese,  one-fourth  cup  of  chopped  olives,  one- 
fourth  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  three  or  four  drops  of  To- 
basco  sauce,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  ground  mustard 
Mould  in  baking  powder  cans,  unmould  and  slice.  Nice 
for  sandwiches. 

June  Apple  Salad — en-surprise. 

Remove  the  shells  ^rom  nara  boiled  eggs  while  hot 
9^d  press  into  apple  shapes  by  holding  them  between 
the  thumb  and  first  finger,  pressing  them  gradually  and 
carefully  to  prevent  breaking.  Chill  and  paint  them 
over  by  the  use  of  a  camel  hair  brush  dipped  in  water 
colored  with  a  little  fruit  red,  or  they  can  be  striped 
with  the  green,  running  the  two  colors  together  in 
a  way  to  resemble  exactly  a  June  apple.  Insert  a 
clove  in  blossom  end.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mavonnaise. 


92  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrlnliJes. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad, 

Peel  medium  sized  tomatoes,  cut  a  slice  from  stem 
end;  remove  seed  and  pulp,  drain  well.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  fill  with  cucumber  cut  in  pieces  and 
mixed  with  chopped  celery.  Moisten  with  salad  dress- 
ing or  mayonnaise. 

Tomato  Pineapple  Salad. 

Prepare  tomatoes  as  for  above  receipt  and  fill  with 
pineapple,  cut  in  pieces  with  English  walnuts  or  pecan 
meats.    Moisten  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

Tomato  cmd  Cheese  Salad. 

iScoop  out  center  of  tomatoes,  drain,  sprinkle  with 
gait,  fill  the  cavity  with  equal  parts  of  Eoquefort  and 
Neufchatel  cheese  work  together  and  moistened  with 
French  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French 
dressing  poured  over. 

Bermuda.  Salad. 

Peel  and  ehill  medium  sized  tomatoes,  cut  five  or  &ix 

parallel  cuts  equal  distances  apart,  crosswise  of  the 
tomato.  In  diese  cuts  fit  in  a  slice  of  Bermuda  onion. 
Serve  with  a  French  or  salad  dressing  on  lettuce. 

Asparagus  Salad. 
'Cut  rings  one-half  inch  wide  from  pimentos  or  green 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinl'le^.  93 

sweet  peppers  and  run  three  or  four  stalks  of  asparagus 
through.  Serye  on  lettuce  with  French  dressing  or 
salad  cream. 

Green  Pepper  and  Cheese  Salad. 

Cut  off  the  stem  end  of  green  peppers,  cut  out  parti- 
tions and  remove  seed.  Stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour, 
drain,  fill  with  ^eufchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream  cheese 
softened  with  salad  dressing.  Press  the  cheese  in 
closely  and  put  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour  or  two. 

Cut  in  one-half  inch  slices  and  serve  as  a  garnish 
for  other  salads  or  serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dress- 
ing.   Pimentos  can  be  filled  and  used  the  same  way. 

Fish  and  Pimento  Salad. 

Fit  pimentos  into  small  porcelain  or  tin  moulds;  fill 
with  creamed  fish.  Stand  in  a  pan  of  water.  Cover 
over  the  top  and  cook  on  top  of  the  stove  until  firm. 
Remove  when  cold  from  the  moulds.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  tartar  sauce  or  with  mayonnaise,  with 
chopped  pickle  and  olives  added. 

Pineapple  and  Cheese. 

Serve  rounds  of  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise.  Soften  neufchatel  cheese  wdth  salad  dress- 
ing and  mix  in  some  chopped  pecans.  Shape  in  balls 
and  roll  in  chopped  nuts  and  serve  one  on  each  plate. 


94  Cal'e,  Candy  a/t?  Cunnanj  Crinkles. 

Cream  Cheese  and  Nut  Salad. 

Soften  cream  cheese  and  season  with  mayonnaise 
dressing,  add  chopped  pimentos  and  nuts.  EoU  in  bal's 
and  then  in  nuts  or  press  into  little  moulds ;  unmould 
and  seiTe  on  lettuce  with  any  dressing  desired. 

Jelly  for  Moulding  and  Garnishing  Fruit  Salads. 

Use  three  cups  of  fruit  juices.  Juice  of  one  or  two 
lemons  as  fruit  requires,  one  cup  of  sugar  unless  your 
fruit  juices  are  canned  and  previously  sweetened  and  in 
that  case  use  less  sugar.  One  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
one  box  of  gelatine.  Pour  one-half  cup  of  cold  water 
over  gelatine,  and  let  stand  until  softened,  then  pour 
over  boiling  water  and  dissolve^  add  to  fruit  juices 
and  strain.  If  it  is  to  be  moulded  pour  into  chilled 
molds  or  put  in  deep  square  pans  and  when  congealed 
cut  into  cubes  or  any  shape  desired.  Fruit  salad  is 
often  served  in  a  border  of  jelly  or  mould  jelly 
in  small  molds  and  stand  around  a  mound  of  salad. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Orange,  pineapple,  grape  fruit,  apples,  grape  and 
other  fruits  are  used  in  combination  with  nuts  and 
celery.  Marsohino  and  Creme-de-Minthe  chenies  are 
also  used.  Prepare  the  fruit  and  set  in  a  colander  to 
drain  several  hours  before  using.  Use  the  juices  in 
making  jelly  or  they  can  be  used  in  making  drinks  or 


Cal-e,  Candij  and  Cuh'nanj  Crinldes.  95 

frozen  desserts,  or  made  into  sauces  to  serve  with  fro- 
zen puddings.  Never  mix  a  fruit  salad  with  dressing 
until  ready  for  use.  Mix  very  lightly  with  a  fork. 
Whipped  cream  is  always  an  addition  to  fruit  salads, 
either  used  in  the  dressings  or  as  a  garnish  for  them. 

Grape  Frtdt  Salad  No,  1. 

Cut  grape  fruit  in  half,  cut  out  center.  Vandyke 
the  edges,  loosen  the  partitions  and  mix  with  them 
Malaga  or  Tokay  grapes.  Mix  with  s^alad  dressing 
Xo.  3.  Press  whipped  cream  through  a  tube  in  the  top 
of  each  half. 

Grape  Fruit  Salad  No,  2. 

Free  grape  fruit  from  partitions  and  pull  in  pieces. 
Mix  with  blanched  dried  out  almonds  and  creme-de- 
minthe  cherries.  Allow  eight  or  ten  cherries  to  each 
grapefruit.  Do  not  mix  with  dressing  until  ready  to 
serve.  Use  salad  cream  No.  2.  Serve  in  a  border  of 
chopped  green  jell}^,  flavored  with  creme-de-minthe,  or 
mould  the  jelly  in  a  border  mould,  moulding  in  some 
of  the  green  cherries  and  serve  the  salad  in  the  center. 

lilarshmaUow  Salad. 

One  cup  of  shelled  pecans,  one-third  of  a  pound  of 
marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  one-half  pound  of  malaga 
grapes  seeded.  One-half  can  of  pineapple  sliced.  Mix 
with  the  following  dressing: 

One- fourth  teaspoon  of  mustard,  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  juice  of  one  lemon.     Cook  over 


96  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes. 

hot  water,  until  it  thickens,  add  salt  to  taste.     When 
cold  fold  in  one  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Pineapple  Salad  with  Jelly. 

Make  a  jelly  from  the  syrup  drained  from  a  caa  c-f 
pineapple,  by  soaking  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one- 
half  cup  of  cold  water  and  dissolving  in  one-half  cup 
of  boiling  water,  add  the  pineapple  syrup,  the  juice  and 
shaved  peel  of  one  lemon  and  sugar  enough  to  sweeten, 
put  on  stove  and  heat  to  boiling  point.  Fill  a  mould 
one-third  full  of  jelly  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen, 
arrange  pieces  of  pineapple  that  have  been  cut  in  cubes 
or  quarters  in  the  jelly,  fill  with  more  jelly  and  more 
pineapple  until  the  mould  is  full.  When  it  stiffens  un- 
mould  on  plate.  Garnish  around  the  dish  with  leaves 
of  head  lettuce  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  with  whip- 
ped cream  enfolded.  If  the  jelly  is  moulded  in  a  rn^ 
or  border  mould  fill  the  center  with  mayonnaise  and 
chopped  pineapple. 

Fruit  Salad  with  a  Garnish  of  Chopped  Jelly. 

Cut  in  pieces  four  oranges,  and  one  can  of  pineapple 
Cut  in  half,  twelve  or  fifteen  marschino  cherries  and 
one-half  pound  of  malaga  grapes.  Put  in  a,,colander 
to  drain.  Make  a  jelly  from  the  juices  of  fruit  used 
and  the  marschino  syrup  from  a  small  bottle  of  cherries. 
Mix  the  fruit  with  salad  cream  No.  1  or  No.  2.  Place 
on  a  large  chop  dish,  chop  the  jelly  very  fine  and  make 
a  border  around.  Garnish  on  top  of  mound  with  whip- 
ped cream. 


CHAPTER  VL 

Pastry. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


Pastry. 


Puff  Paste  No.  1. 

Puff  Paste  No.  2. 

Patty   Shells. 

Vol-au-Vents. 

Rissoles. 

Plain  Pie  Crust. 

Pastry   Shells. 

Tartletite  Paste. 

Potato   Ci-ust   for    Dumplings 

and  Cobblers. 
Meringue  for  Pies. 
Chocolate  Pie. 


Rhubarb    Plo. 

Caramel   Pie. 

Buttermilk  Custard  Pie. 

Cranberry   Pie. 

Cream  Currant  Pie, 

Cream  Pie  No.  1. 

Cream  Pie  No.  2. 

Orange  Pie. 

Banbury  Tarts. 

Filling  for   Pastry    Shells. 

English  Brambles. 

Philadelphia  Cocoanut  Pie. 


Puff  paste  is  used  in  making  vol-au-vents,  rissoles, 
and  patty  sliells.  Other  pastr}^  dishes  can  be  made 
very  ornamental  by  the  use  of  cutters  of  fancy 
f hapes ;  placing  them  as  borders  on  rounds  of  pastry,  to 
be  used  as  covers  for  meat  pies.  The  proportion  for 
making  puff  paste  is  half  as  much  butter  as  flour  made 
into  a  rather  stiff  dough  with  ice  water  a  little  salted. 
The  butter  is  folded  in,  in  a  way  to  enfold  air  which 
gives  lightness  to  the  paste.  In  making  pastry  have  in- 
gredients cold  and  m^ake  in  a  cool  place,  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Puif  Paste  No.  1. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  tea- 
gpoon  of  salt ;  use  water  enough  to  make  a  rather  stiff 
dough.  AVash  the  butter  well  and  put  a  rounding 
tablespoonful  in  the  flour.  Shape  the  other  in  a  square 
cake  and  wrap  it  in  a  napkin  and  put  it  in  a  cool 
place.  Mix  the  tablespoon  of  butter  with  the  flour,  with 
the  tips  of  the  fingers,  working  it  to  a  rather  stiff 
dough  with  about  one- third  of  a  cup  of  ice  water  and 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Knead  until  smooth.  Eoll  out  an 
oblong  piece,  twice  as  long  as  wide.  Put  the  cake  of 
butter  in  the  center,  fold  the  sides  and  tiien  the  ends 

99 


100  Calve,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes. 

of  the  paste  over  the  butter.  Let  it  stand  ten  minutes. 
Turn  the  paste  half  around.  EoU  with  rolling  pin  into 
an  oblong  piece  with  light,  quick  strokes.  Fold  the 
ends  to  the  center  and  then  fold  together.  Turn  and 
roll  as  before.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  between  each 
rolling.  It  should  be  rolled  five  or  six  times,  then  cut 
into  shapes,  chilled  and  baked  in  a  hot  oven. 

Puff  Paste  No.  2. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  butter,  the  juice  of 
one  small  lemon,  yolk  of  one  egg^  about  one-half  cup 
of  cold  water.  Put  lemon  juice,  water  and  egg  together, 
mix  one-half  cup  of  butter  in  with  flour,  make  into 
a  rather  stiff  dough  with  the  liquid',  fold  in  the  re- 
maining butter. 

Patty  Shells. 

Eoll  puff  paste  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with 
any  desired  shaped  paitty  cutters.  The  pieces  are  put 
together,  the  top  one  having  a  small  piece  cut  from 
the  center.  This  piece  should  be  baked  separately  and 
used  as  the  top  after  the  shells  are  filled.  These  shells 
are  generally  made  round,  but  hearts,  diamonds,  cres- 
cents and  other  shapes  are  sometimes  used.  They  should 
be  thoroughly  chilled  before  baking,  and  should  be 
baked  on  double  manilla  paper,  on  baking  sheets  or 
in  shallow  baking  pans. 


Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinlcUs.  101 

Vol-au-Yents. 

Eoll  puff  paste  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in 
rounds,  the  size  desired.  Put  two  or  more  layers.  Cut 
out  the  centers  of  two  top  layers  (if  three  layers  are 
used).  Bake  the  pieces  that  come  from  the  centers 
for  tops  to  vol-au-vents ;  chill  thoroughly  aiift  oaKO 
sbout  thirty-five  or  forty  minutes.  Fill  the  centers 
with  mushrooms,  sweet>bread3,  oysters,  creamed  chicken 
cr  anything  desired.  Pie  pans  are  generally  used  to 
cut  vol-al-vents. 

Eissoles. 

Eoll  puff  paste  quite  thin;  wet  it  about  three  inches 
from  the  edge  and  place  upon  it  little  balls  of  cream- 
ed chicken  about  three  inches  apart.  Lap  over  the 
edge  of  the  paste,  covering  the  balls.  Press  down  all 
around,  cut  with  a  scalloped  cutter  into  half  circles,  dip 
in  deep  fat  and  fry  until  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  on 
a  folded  napkin. 

Plain  Pie  Crust. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half 
to  three-fourths  cup  of  lard,  and  butter  mixed,  or  all 
lard.  Mix  lard  in  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Make 
into  a  stiff  dough  with  ice  water.  If  the  dough  is  tof> 
stiff  it  will  not  roll  well,  will  break  easily  and  is  dif- 
ficult to  handle,  if  too  soft  it  will  be  equally  hard  to 
shape  and  be  tough  as  too  much  water  will  make  it 


10^  Cake^  Candy  and  Culin-ary  CrinMes. 

tough.  In  cold  weather  use  three-fourths  cup  of  short- 
ening, in  warm  weather  use  one-half  cup.  The  lard 
can  be  worked  into  the  dough  and  the  butter  spread 
on  lightly  and  rolled  and  folded  in  which  gives  a  very 
flaky  crust — pastry  should  be  rolled  very  thin  and 
fitted  over  inverted  pans,  thus  insuring  a  well  baked 
crust.  There  are  some  pies  that  must  have  the  mix- 
tnre  cooked  with  the  crust,  but  when  they  can  be  cook- 
ed separately  andi  combined  while  hot  it  is  much  better. 

Pastry  Shells. 

Eoll  plain  paste  very  thin,  cut  into  rounds  and  fit 
over  small,  plain  or  fluted  moulds.  Cut  narrow  strips 
one-half  inch  or  more  wide  with  a  pastry  jagger.  Wet 
around  the  edge  of  pastry  rounds  with  a  little  cold 
water  and  place  strip  around  the  water  holding  them 
in  place.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  remove  from  moulds 
and  fill  with  creamed  mixture,  or  small  rounds  can 
be  filled  into  fluted  muffin  irons  and  baked,  remove 
and  fill  with  a  red  tart  jelly  to  garnish  broiled  chicken 
and  game. 

Tartlette  Paste. 

One  cup  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Make  into  a  stiii 
paste  with  ice  water.  Fit  into  shells  and  cook.  Fill  with 
fruit  sweetened  and  cooked  until  tender  and  thickened 
with  arrow  root.    Cherries,  apricots,  prunes  and  peaches, 


Cal'C,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlcles.  103 

all  make  nice  tarts  and  with  the  use  of  almonds  and  oth- 
er nuts  can  be  made  very  ornamental.  Any  cream  or  cus- 
tard mixture  can  also  be  used  in  these  shells  and  me- 
ringue pressed  through  a  tube  to  garnish  them. 

Potato  Crust  for  Dumplings  and  Cobblers. 

Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  two  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Work  into 
this  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  one-half  cup  of  lard 
and  one  cup  of  cold,  mashed  Irish  potatoes.  Make  into 
a  rather  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk.  Handle  as  little 
as  possible,  roll  and  cut  into  rounds  for  dumplings,  fill- 
ing each  round  with  the  mixture  and  press  the  edges 
well  together.  Or  use  for  cofobler,  fitting  into  baking 
pan  and  baking  the  pastry  and  fruit  separately  and  then 
combining. 

Meringue  for  Pies. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  and  beat  into  them 
Tery  gradually  and  slowly  two  level  tablespoons  of 
granulated  or  pulverized  sugar  to  each  white  of  egg.  If 
the  eggs  are  'beaten  very  stiff  at  first  .and  the  sugar  beatt- 
en  in  slowly  enough  you  can  use  your  meringue  to 
make  designs  by  pressing  through  a  tube.  For  this  it 
should  stand  alone  and  be  stiff  enough  to  cut  with  a 
knife.    Cook  in  a  slow  oven. 

Chocolate  Pie 

Stir  together  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk, 


104  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinarij  Crinkles. 

one  and  one-lialf  (tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick 
and  smooth.  Cook  crust  over  inverted  pan  and  combine 
with  mixture  while  hot.    Cover  with  whipped  cream. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

Stew  one  pint  of  rhubarb  cut  into  pieces  w^ith  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  enough  water  to  cover  well.  When 
it  begins  to  get  tender,  add  two  tablespoons  of  arrow 
root  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Eemove  from  fire  and  beat 
well.  Cook  betwen  crusts.  All  fruit  pies  are  better 
thickened  with  arrow  root. 

Caramel  Pie. 

Three  cups  of  light  brown  sxigar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
three  eggs  beaten  separately.  Fit  paste  in  pie  pan, 
put  a  piece  of  paper  over  and  fill  with  rice  or  some 
cereal  and  partially  bake.  Eemove  cereal,  brush  over 
w4th  white  of  an  Qgg,  fill  with  caramel  mixture  and 
finish  baking. 

Caramel  Pie, 

Three  -^ggs,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  of 
flour.    Beat  all  together  and  bake  with  crust. 


Cal'c,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  105 

Butter  Milk  Custard  Pie. 

Mix  four  yolk  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  with  two 
cups  of  sugar  and  beat  well.  Add  one  full  tablespoon 
of  meal  and  one  of  flour  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  a* 
soda,  one  cup  of  butter  milk,  one-fourth  cup  of  butter, 
and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Pour  in  crusts  and  bake, 
or  bake  crusts  over  inverted  pie  pans,  cook  the  custard 
and  combine  while  hot.  Use  (the  three  remaining  whites 
of  eggs  for  meringue. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  O'Ver  one  cup  of 
cranberries,  cut  in  half,  one-half  cup  of  raisins,  cut  in 
half,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  full  tablespoon  of  flour, 
season  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cook  between 
crust. 

Mrs.  Loomis. 

Cream  Currant  Pie. 

One  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Cook  between 
crust3. 

Mrs.  Loomis. 

Cream  Pie  No.  1. 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  the 

yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  ad  r^ne  cup 
of  sour  cream,  beat  well,  add  a  scant  one-half  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon;  stir  in  one-half  cup  of 


106  Calte,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJdes. 

raisins  chopped  fine.  Use  the  two  whites  of  eggs  for 
meringue.  -Cook  the  mixture  and  pastry  together.  Cool 
slightly,  spread  the  meringue  over  or  put  into  pastry 
bag  with  tube  and  press  into  waves  around  the  pie. 

Mrs.  Barksdale. 

Cream  Pie  No.  2. 

Beat  together  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  and  one- 
jjalf  cups  of  sugar,  five  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  flour  or 
corn  starch  and  one  cup  of  cream.  Cook  mixture  over 
hot  water.  Cook  pastry  on  inverted  pans;  combine 
while  hot  and  put  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown 
slightly. 

Orange  Pie. 

Pour  one  cup  of  scalded  milk  over  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  sugai 
beaten  together.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick, 
then  add  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  the  juice  and  the 
grated  rind  of  one-half  orange.  Cook  crust  and  com- 
bine.   Use  whites  for  meringue. 

Banbury  Tarts. 

'Cnt  small  rounds  from  pastry,  fill  with  one  pound 
of  figs,  onehalf  cup  of  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  water, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Cook  the  mix- 
ture, fill  rounds,  shape  aJid  bake  like  turnover  pies. 

Mrs.  Loomis. 


Ca'ke,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinhles.  107 

Filling  for  Pastry  Shells, 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  cream 

together  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  pulverized  almonds 
and  four  tablespoons  of  pulverized  macaroons,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.     Fold  in  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 

English  Brambles. 

Cut  plain  paste  or  scraps  of  puff  paste  in  small 
circles.  Mis  one  pound  of  raisins  chopped 
line,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two 
eggs  beaten  light,  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  medium 
sized  lemons.  Put  a  spoonful  in  the  center  of  each 
round,  fold  over  and  pinch  edges  together,  and  bake 
like  turnovers. 

Philadelphia  Cocoanut  Pie. 

Six  heaping  tablespoons  of  freshly  grated  cocoanut, 
one-half  scant  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  rose  water,  one  tahlespoon  of 
orange  juice,  whites  of  six  eggs.  Cream  the  butter, 
add  the  sugar,  rose  water  and  orange  juice.  Beat  the 
eggs  light  and  fold  in,  alternating  with  the  cocoanut. 
Line  a  piepan  with  a  thin  pie  paste,  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes 


CHAPTER  VII, 

Hot  and  Cold  Desserts. 
Ic-es  and  Eeceptaeles  for  Ices. 


CHAPTER    VIT. 


Hot  and  Cold  Desserts. 


Rice  Pudding. 
tSponge  Pudding. 
Rice   and   Marsiimallow   Pud- 
ding. 
Ginger   Pudding. 
Potato   and    Nut   Pudding. 
Maccaroon   Pudding. 
Individual   Fruit  Puddings, 
Prune   Soufflee. 
Kut   PufEs. 

Rice  and  Fruit  Croquettes. 
Fruit  Croquettes. 
Plum    Pudding    Croquettes. 
Date  Pudding. 
Bavarian    Sponge    Pudding. 
Imperial   Jelly. 
Wine  Jelly. 
Pistascliio    Cream. 


Almond    Bavarian. 

St.  Augustine  Timbal. 

Paste   for    Timbal. 

Spun  Sugar. 

Duchess  Jelly. 

Snow    Flake    Jelly. 

Individual   Charlotte   No.  1. 

Individual   Charlotte  No.  2. 

Charlotte    Filling-. 

Sunshine  Charlotte. 

Orange    Cake    Border    Served 

with  Orange  Glace. 
Meringue  Border. 
Meringue  Squares. 
Cream   Meringue. 
Marshmallow    Glace. 
Marshmallow    Pudding. 
Stuffed  Peaches. 


Ices  and  Receptacles  for  Ices. 


Plain   Ice  Cream. 
Fruit  Sherbet. 
Milk   Sherbet. 
Cranberry    Sherbet. 
Creme  de   Minthe  Sherbet. 
Fruit  Cups. 
Pineapple   Glace. 
Peach  Melba. 
Marshmallow    Parfait. 
Angel    and    Nut    Parfait. 
Nongatine    Crenm. 
Frozen    Whipped    Cream, 
Frozen    Pudding. 
Frozen  Yvatermelon. 


Receptacles  for  Ices. 

Spun    Sugar   Nests. 

Ice  Cups  No.  1. 

Ice  Cups   No.   2. 

Marshmallow    Baskets. 

Cake     Rounds      for      Serving 

Ices. 
Cake    Baskets. 
Candy   Baskets   No.  1. 
Candy    Baskets    No.    2. 
Candy  Baskets  No.  3. 
Almond      Paste     for     Lining 

Moulds. 
Jelly  Cuds. 


IKot  an6  dolb    iDesserts. 

fe^   C^T*   ^(5^   <^5* 

i^tc^e  Pudding. 
One-third  cup  of  rice,  wash  well,  one  scant  cup  of  su- 
gar, pinch  of  salt,  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  two  and 
one-half  hours  stirring  now  and  then  from  the  bottom 
to  prevent  rice  sticking. 

Sponge  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
hajf  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  five  eggs.  Cook 
flour  and  milk,  pour  it  over  the  butter  and  sugar.  AYhen 
cold,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten 
whites.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  and 
bake  about  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  with  a«  hard  sauce. 
All  custards  are  more  delicate  baked  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  with  several  layers  of  paper  in  the  bottom. 

Bice  and  Marslimallow  Pudding. 

One-half  cup  of  rice,  four  cups  of  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  raisins,  one  teaspoon  of  va- 
nilla, one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  the  rice  and  milk 
together  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  rice  is  tender.  Mix 

111 


112  Cake,  Candy  and  CuUnm-y  Crinhles-, 

in  the  other  ingredients,  put  in  an  earthenTrare  baking 
dish  and  bake  a  few  minutes.  Cover  over  the  top  with 
marshmallows  and  brown.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Ginger  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  butter  milk,  one  level  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  five  eggs  beaten  together,  one  teaspoon 
of  allspice,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon 
of  ginger,  five  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  and 
gerve  with  caramel  sauce. 

Potato  and  Xut  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  t^vo  cups  of  sugar 
together  until  light,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one-fourth  cup  of  whiskey,  one  cup  of  cold  boiled 
Irish  potatoes,  one  cup  of  rye  bread  crumbs,  dried  and 
ground  or  grated,  one  cup  of  nuts  and  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  six 
eggs;  bake  in  layer  pans  or  a  mould  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  foamy  sauce. 

Macaroon  Pudding. 

Soak  eighteen  macaroons  in  one  cup  of  sherry  wine 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  beat  four  eggs  together 
until  light,  add  four  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  almonds  blanched  and  ground.  Two  cups  of 
milk  andi  one  cup  of  staje  sponge  cake  crumbs,  or  one 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes.  113 

cup  of  toasted  bread  crumbs,  flavored  witli  one  teaspoon 
of  almond  extract.  Butter  a  pudding  mould,  line 
with  macaroons,  fill  with  the  mixture;  place  the 
rem.aining  macaroons  over  the  top  of  pudding.  Set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  ba^ke  until  firm  to  the  touch. 
Serve  with  wine  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Individual  Fruit  Puddings. 

Make  hot  water  s^ponge  cake  page  —  and  bake  in 
pans  one  and  three-fourths  or  two  inches  deep;  cut 
in  three  inch  squares;  split  and  fill  with  fruit  cut  in 
pieces  or  whole  according  to  the  fruit  used,  sprinkle 
over  fruit  with  sugar,  a  k3'e'r  of  fruit  then  cake  and 
so  on  making  as  high  as  you  like.  Two  layers  are 
generally  high  enough;  cover  over  with  meringue. 
Spread  on  all  sides,  put  some  meringue  in  pastry  bag 
with  star  tube  and  ornament  over  top  and  sides,  set 
ir  the  oven  to  brown  and  serve  with  fruit  juice  sweet- 
ened and  cooked  to  a  syrup.  When  cold  enfold  whipped 
cream.  They  can  be  served  with  plain  whipped  cream 
or  any  sauce  desired.  Oranges,  pineapple,  peaches, 
strawberries  and  raspberries  can  all  be  used  for  the  pud- 
dings and  use  with  them  the  sauce  best  suited  to  the 
fruit  used  in  m^aking  pudding. 

Prune  Souflee. 

Stew  one-half  pound  of  prunes  until  tender,  mash 
and  strain,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  light  and  add 


114  Cale,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes. 

one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  again.  Mix  with  strain- 
ed prunes,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the 
eggs,  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes,  the 
prunes  can  he  stewed  and  chopped  instead  of  strain- 
ing. Other  fruits  can  be  used  in  the  place  of 
prunes  and  the  quantity  of  sugar  used  according  as 
the  fruit  requires. 

Nut  Puffs. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  and  add  two 
tablespoons  of  cream,  and  one  cup  of  ground  and 
pounded  almonds  or  chestnuts.  One  tablespoon  of 
sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  sherry,  also  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Mix  all  well  together,  place  over  hot  water  and 
cook  a  minute  or  two.  Cool  and  add  the  istiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  shape  in  rounds  or  oblongs,  dip 
in  eggy  then  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve 
while  quite  hot. 

Eioe  and  Fruit  Croquettes. 

Cook  one-half  cup  of  rice  in  two  cups  of  milk  in 
double  boiler  until  rice  is  tender  and  soft;  add  before 
removing  from  the  fire  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and 
one  egg  beaten  until  light.  Eemove  from  fire  and  add 
one-half  cup  (or  more  if  liked)  of  candied  chopped 
fruits,  cherries,  pineapple,  lemon  and  orange  peel; 
pour  into  shallow  buttered  pans.  When  quite  cold 
and  firm,  cut  in  strips  three  and  one-half  inches  wide. 


Calce,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinl-Jes.  115 

dip  in  Qgg  and  then  in  crumbg  and  saute  in  butter, 
drain  on  brown  paper  and  dust  over  with  pulverized 
sugar. 

Fruit  Croquettes. 

Drain  and  chill  well  slices  of  pineapple  or  oranges 
without  peeling  them ;  sprinkle  them  over  with  powder- 
ed sugar,  dip  in  Qgg  then  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
hot  fat.  Serve  with  a  fruit  sauce,  made  from  the 
juice  of  fruit  used  with  a  little  sugar  and  arrow  root 
added,  boil  together  until  clear. 

Plum  Pudding  Croquettes. 

Shape  moist  plum  pudding  or  fruit  cake  into  oblongs 
or  cut  into  small  squares;  dip  in  iigg  then  in  stale 
cake  crumbs,  fry  a  delicate  brown,  serve  with  wi'^'* 
sauce  with  whipped  cream  enfolded. 

Date  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar  together  until  light;  beat  the  whites  of  two  Qggi 
light,  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  mix 
one  cup  of  nuts  and  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour 
and  one  cup  of  chopped  dates  together  and  add  to  yolks 
and  sugar,  add  whites  and  baking  powder,  grease  and 
flour  a  pan,  fill  with  mixture  and  bake  thirty-five  min- 
utes. Let  it  remain  in  pan  until  cold.  Serve  witn 
whipped  cream,  flavored  and  sweetened. 

Miss  Hunt. 


116  CaJ.e,  C Cindy  and  Culinary  CrinMcs. 

Bavarian  Sponge  Pudding.  . 

Bake  angel  or  yellow  sponge  cake  in  rounrl  sTiallcw 
pans,  make  a  plain  fruit  or  chocolate  bavarian  and 
mould  in  same  sized  pans.  Unmould  when  cold  and 
stack  with  cake,  alternating  cake  and  bavarian.  Cover 
over  with  whipped  cream,  eprinkle  with  nuts  or  chop- 
ped fruits.  Serve  on  large  platter  with  lace  paper 
mait. 

Imperial  Jelly. 

Line  a  fancy  mould  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick  with 
wine  jelly,  then  coat  it  all  over  w^ith  split  almonds. 
Set  these  to  shape  vrith  more  jelly.  Line  the  mould 
one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  with  pistaschio  cream^  and 
let  this  set,  then  fill  th-e  mould  with  bavarian,  when 
ready  for  use,  unmould  on  lace  paper  mat. 

Wine  Jelly. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  one-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  the 
juice  from  two  lemons  and  peel  from  one,  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  four  cloves  and  the  shell  and  whites  of  two 
egg^.  Beat  all  tagether  and  pour  over  three  cups  boil- 
ing water  and  package  of  gelatine,  that  has  been  soak- 
ed in  one  cup  of  cold  water,  let  it  boil  a  minute  or 
two,  let  stand  a  few  minutes  and  strain  twice  through 
a  jelly  bag.    When  cool  add  one  cup  of  wine. 


Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  117 

Pistaschio  Cream^ 

Pound  together  one-half  cup  of  blanched  pistaschio 
nuts,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  full  tablespoon  of  su- 
gar, one  tear>poon  of  vanilla,  bring  to  the  boil  and 
add  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine,  that  has  been  soaked 
in  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water.  Pour  this  over  the 
yolkg  of  three  eggg  and  cook  until  it  thickens,  add  a 
little  rose  or  orange  water  if  desired.  Strain  and  when 
cool,  add  one  cup  of  whipped  cream  and  color  a  deli- 


cate green. 


Almond  Bavarian. 


Bake  one-fourth  pound  of  ground  almonds  a  deep 
brown.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  one  cup  of  thick 
cream  and  two  full  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  3ne  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Bring  to  a  boil,  set  over  hot  water 
and  let  it  infuse  for  fifteen  or  tvrenty  minutes,  add  one 
tablespoon  of  gelatine  .so:aked  in  cold  water  until  dis- 
solved. Pour  custard  over  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten 
and  cooked  until  it  thickens,  strain,  when  cold  add  one 
Clip  of  whipped  cream,  one  tablespoon  of  Z\Iaraschino 
wine,  and  tv/o  tablespoons  of  brandy. 

St.  Angtistine  Timhal. 

Prepare  some  paste  a.s  below  and  while  it  is  quite 
hot,  line  timbal  mould  that  has  been  well  oiled.  When 
cold,  remove  from  the  mould  and  fill  with  bavarian 
cream  cr  any  congealed  cream  in  layers  of  two  or  three 
colors.     Garnish  the  top  with  whipped  cream,  pressed 


118  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinl'les. 


>'Vr^#^««fc^>  *« 


through  a  tube.  Dip  strips  of  angeliqua,  grapes,  almonds 
or  cherries,  any  or  all  of  these  in  syrup  cooked  to  th€ 
caramel  stage  and  cool  on  oiled  slab.  Dip  them  so 
slender  pieces  of  the  candy  will  cling  to  them  in  threads 
Reveral  inches  long.  Place  them  now  and  then  in  the 
whipped  cream,  as  a  garnish.  Put  a  twist  of  spun  sugar 
around  the  mould. 

Paste  for  Timhal. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  one-half  pound  of  pulverized  su- 
gar, one-half  pound  of  ground  almonds,  three  table- 
spoons of  brandy,  one  tablespoon  of  strained  lemon 
juice.  Color  a  delicate  pink  with  liquid  fruit  coloring, 
stir  over  the  fire  about  seven  minutes,  mould  while  hot. 

Spun  Sugar. 

One-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  water  enough  to  dis- 
solve, cook  until  it  begins  to  color.  Dip  a  fork  into  the 
BjTuip  and  whip  across  a  greased  rolling  pin.  Eemove 
and  shape  at  once  before  it  becomes  too  brittle. 

Duchess  Jelly. 

Flavor  lemon  jelly  with  kirsch  or  noyau.  \Yhen  it 
begins  to  -thicken,  add  chopped  pistasehio  nuts. 

Snow  Flake  Jelly. 
Make  a  lemon  or  wine  jelly  and  when  it  begins  to 


Cal-c,  Caridy  and  Culinary  CrinUes  119 

thicken,  stir  into  it  grated  cocoanut  that  has  been  dried 
in  the  oven.  Mould  in  a  round  or  oblong  mould  and 
garnish  with  -whipped  cream  pressed  through  a  tube,  or 
before  unmoulding  cut  out  the  center  and  fill  with 
oranges  out  in  pieces  and  grated  cocoanut.  Pile  whip- 
ped cream  'on  top  and  sprinkle  the  cream  with  cocoanut. 

Individual  Charlotte  Xo.  1. 

Cook  sponge  cake  in  small  moulds.  Cut  off  a  slice 
from  the  top.  Scoop  out  the  center  and  fill  with  any 
charlotte,  plain  or  fruit,  fit  the  slice  cut  of!  on  to  the 
top  and  ice  all  over  vdth  chocolate,  cream  caramel, 
plain  wfhite  icing  or  any  icing  desired.  Serve  in  nests 
of  whipped  cream. 

Individual  Charlotte  No,  2. 

Mix  one-half  quantity  of  orange  cake  receipt,  and 
bake  in  small  deep  tins.  Cut  out  centers.  Frost  over 
with  golden  icing  and  fill  with  charlotte  filling. 

Charlotte  Filling, 

Soak  one  scant  teaspoon  of  gelatine  in  one  tablespoon 
of  cold  water,  dissolve  in  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water. 
When  cool  pour  it  into  one  cup  of  cream  whipped  very 
stiff.  Add  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  six  m.ar?hmallows 
chopped  very  fine,  eight  or  nine  candied  cherries  cut 
into  small  piece?,  four  rolled  macaroons  and  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla. 


120  Cdke^  Candy  mid  Culinary  CrinMes. 

Sunshine  Charlotte, 

Use  receipt  for  Sunshine  Cake  Nos.  1,  2  or  3.    When 

cool  cut  ont  the  center.     Fill  with  cream  whipped  very 
stiff,  flavored  and  sweetened. 

Orange  Cale  Border  Served  ivith  Orange  Glace. 

Bake  orange  cake  in  border  mould,  ice  over  with 
golden  filling,  (iSee  page  165),  fill  the  center  with  an 
orange  sherbet  made  with  two  cups  of  orange  juice, 
one-half  cup  of  lemon  juice,  two  cups  of  sugar,  and  one 
cup  of  water.  Freeze  ver}-  stiff  and  when  ready  to  use, 
fold  in  one  cup  of  very  stiff  whipped  cream.  This  can 
be  made  very  ornamental  (by  placing  some  whipped 
cream  in  a  paper  tube  and  cut  a  rose  petal  opening,  gar- 
nish around  the  sides  in  festoons,  caught  up  with  a  full 
bLowm  rose. 

MeHngtm  Border. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  large  eggs  or  four  small 
ones  until  very  stiff.  Add  very  gradually  seven-eigthths 
cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  then  fold  in  one-third  cup  of  sugar. 

Line  a  baking  sheet  with  manilla  paper  and  draw 
on  it  a  round  about  the  size  of  a  breakfast  plate.  Put 
the  meringue  in  a  p.astry  bag,  using  a  star-shaped  tube, 
follow  the  round  with  the  tube  making  a  wavy  border. 
'With  (the  rest   of  the  mixture   make   small   roses   or 


Cal'B^  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinlcles.  121 

kisses ;  cook  in  a  very  slow  oven  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 
When  cool  run  a  spatula  under,  remove  from  the  paper. 
Have  a  round  of  cake  (angel  food  is  nice  for  this^^ 
and  ice  over  using  icing  No.  1.  Put  meringue  border 
on  this  and  use  the  kisses  to  garnish  around  the  side  of 
cake  or  on  top  of  border  by  fastening  'them  with  a  little 
icing.  This  can  be  made  very  ornamental  by  using  two 
rings,  a  plain  one  for  the  bottom  and  a  more  elaborate 
one  for  the  itop,  fasten  them  together  with  icing.  Fill 
with  a  charlotte  or  any  frozen  mixture.  Nougatine 
cream  is  very  delicious  to  sen'e  with  it.  If  the  double 
border  is  used,  do  not  use  the  cake  for  foundation. 

Meringue  Squares. 

S-hape  meringue  mixture  on  ungreased  paper  through 
a  tube  to  form  a  four  inch  solid  square.  Shape  others 
to  form  the  same  sized  (holliow  square,  making  it  orna- 
mental. Cook  in  a  very  slow  oven.  When  cool  remove 
from  paper  and  stack  with  sweetened  and  flavored 
whipped  cream,  placing  the  hollow  square  on  top  and 
pressing  it  into  the  cream  so  the  cream  will  come  up 
through  the  openings 

Cream  Meringue. 

Use  the  above  mixture  and  shape  into  wavy  oblongp. 
Bake  slowly;  when  done,  remove  from  the  paper.  Break 
the  smooth  sides  in  and  fill  with  whipped  cream  or 
cream  and  sherbet,  frozen  pudding  or  any  ice.     Press 


122  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinl'les. 

two  together,  tie  with  ribbon  and  a  spray  .of  some  flow- 
er. If  holly  is  used  tie  with  red  ribbon.  Lily  of  the 
valley,  jonquils,  violets  ar-e  all  beautiful^  and  use  with 
them  the  color  of  ribbon  to  suit  the  flower. 

Marshmallow  Glace, 

Cover  one-half  pound  of  marshmallows  with  one  pint 
of  heavy  cream.  Put  in  a  cool  place  and  let  stand  until 
the  cream  has  dissolved  the  marshmallow. 
Stir  them  now  and  then  as  the  marshmallows  are 
light  and  rise  to  the  top.  Serve  in  tall  stem  glasses 
with  a  garnish  of  chopped  cherries  or  toasted  shredded 
almonds,  sprinkled  over  the  top. 

Marshmallow  Pudding, 

Soak  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  one-half 
cup  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  in  one-half  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  very  stiff;  when 
fthe  gelatine  cools  add  to  the  eggs  a  little  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing al  Ithe  while.  Beat  in  gradually  one  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Flavor.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen  color  in 
two  or  more  colors,  mould  in  layers  and  serve  with 
whipped  ccream.  Fruits  or  nuts  or  both  can  be  added 
and  is  an  addition.  Moulded  in  a  brick  mould  it  resem- 
bles Neapolitan  cream,  is  easily  served  and  can  be  pret- 
tily garnished.  It  can  be  moulded  in  individual  moulds, 
or  in  square  cake  pans  two  inches    deep    and  cut  into 


iJaJce,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinhles.  123 

squares  or  triangles;  by  the  use  o-f  fancy  shaped  cutters, 
it  can  be  made  into  any  shape,  and  a  border  of  whipped 
cream  pressed  through  a  tube  made  around  it. 

Stuffed  Peaches. 

Cut  large  firm  peaches  in  half,  remove  seed  and  fill 
the  cavity  with  chopped  marshmallows  and  blanched, 
shredded  almonds,  press  together  and  serve  with  whip- 
ped cream.  This  makes  a  delicious  salad  served  with 
mayonnaise  with  whipped  cream,  enfolded. 


6 


^ 


"3ces  ax{.h  Receptacles  for  Ifces* 

^  .JS  c^  ^ 

PlcUn  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of 
pulverized  sugar,  one  full  teaspoon  of  gelatine.  Beat 
the  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light,  add  the  gelatine 
that  has  been  soahed  in  one  tablespoon  of  cold  vrater 
and  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water;  whip 
cream  slightly  and  fold  in,  flavor  and  freeze. 

Fruit  Sherbet. 

Miake  a  syrup  by  boiling  two  cups  of  water,  two  and 
one-half  cups  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange 
together  for  fifteen  minutes.  Chill  and  add  one  can  of 
grated  pineapple,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  orange  juice, 
one-third  cup  of  lemon  juice  and  one  cup  of  syrup  from 
a  can  of  apricots.  Add  one  quart  of  hydrox  or  apolli- 
naris  water,  and  freeze. 

MilJc  Sherbet 

'Make  a  heavy  custard  of  four  cups  of  milk,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  and  itwo  tablespoons  of  flour  or  arrow-root, 
and  one  cup  of  sugar.    "WHien  it  begins  to  cool  fold  in 

124 


Calce^  Cmidy  and  Cnlinary  Crinl-Ies.  125 

the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Freeze  to  a  mush,  then  add  the 
juice  of  six  lemons.  Grate  the  peel  from  one  lemon  and 
I>oiir  one  quart  of  boiling  water  over  the  hulls  of  lemons, 
boil  a  few  minutes  and  add  the  strained  water  to  cus- 
tard and  finish  the  freezing. 

Cranberry  Sherbet. 

Make  a  lemon  sherbet  of  four  cups  of  water  and  two 
cups  of  sugar  boiled  to  a  syrup,  add  one-half  cup  of  lemon 
juice  and  the  pulp,  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cooked 
strained  cranberry.  This  is  nice  to  serve  with  game  or 
fowl. 

Creme  de  Minthe  Sherbet. 

Make  a  lemon  sherbet  and  add  one-half  cup  of  Creme 
de  Minthe  syrup  from  a  bottle  of  cherries  or  one  table- 
spoon of  essence  of  peppermint.  When  half  frozen  add 
fifteen  Creme  de  Minthe  cherries  chopped  fine.  Serve 
in  tail-stem.med  glasses  with  toasted  almonds  chopped 
fine  and  cherries  cut  into  small  pieces  sprinkled  over 
the  top.  One  cup  of  whipped  cream  can  be  stirred  into 
the  sherbet  when  half  frozen  and  is  an  improvement. 

Fruit  Cups. 

Fill  a  stone  jar  with  pineapple,  cut  into  cubes, 
oranges  cut  in  pieces,  maraschino  cherries,  cuit  in  halves, 
and  pour  over  them  the  juice  drained  from  the  fruit 


126  Cale,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles. 

made  into  syrup.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt,  until  half 
frozen,  fill  ice  cups  or  put  in  tall-stemmed  sherbet  glass- 
es. Set  on  a  small  plate  with  lace  paper  mat.  Grarnish 
the  stem  of  glass  with  small  green  vine  twisted  around. 
A  ispoon  of  whipped  cream  in  the  top  of  glass  with  a 
cherry  chopped  over  is  pretty. 

Pineapple  Glace. 

Whip,  sweeten  and  flavor  heavy  cream,  pack  in  round 
cans,  (baking  powder  can  will  do)  seal  well  with  lard 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  two  hours.  Unmould  and  cut 
in  rounds,  place  on  each  round  a  slice  of  pineapple, 
drained  and  chilled.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  syrup  made 
from  the  pineapple  juice  and  marschino  syrup,  decorate 
over  the  top  with  maraschino  cherries — the  cream  can  loe 
colored  in  two  or  more  colors  and  chopped  fruits  and 
nuts  added. 

Peach  Melha. 

Cut  sponge  cake  in  rounds,  spread  with  ice  cream,  or 
use  a  slice  of  brick  cream.  Put  one-half  of  a  large 
peach  on  top  of  cream.  Pour  over  a  rich  raspberry 
syrup.  Press  a  flower  of  whipped  cream  on  top  by  the 
use  of  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Marshmallow  Parfait, 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  three-fourths  cup 
of  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of  water  boiled  to  thread 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrMles.  127 

stage.  Pour  (this  over  the  whites  of  eggs,  beating  all 
the  while.  WTien  it  begins  to  cool  add  one-fourth  pound 
of  chopped  marshmallows.  Beat  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  and  add  the  whip  from  two  cups  of  cream. 
Pour  in  a  mould  and  seal  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for 
four  hours.  It  can  be  moulded  in  a  round  mould,  and 
served  as  a  crown  for  orange  ice. 

Angel  and  Nut  Parfait. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  onehalf  cup  of  water,  cooked  until 
it  makes  a  soft  ball.  Pour  slowly  over  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Flavor.  Fold  in  four  cups  of 
cream  whipped.  Add  two  cupg,  more  or  less  of  ground 
nuts.  Put  in  a  mould,  seal  ,and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for 
four  hours. 

Nougatine  Cream. 

Sweeten  two  quarts  of  cream  with  one  cup  of  sugar. 
Pour  into  this  the  liquor  from  one  one-pint  bottle  of 
creme-de-menth  cherries.  Freeze  to  a  mush  and  add  the 
chopped  cherries,  one-fourth  pound  of  chopped  marsh- 
m^allows  and  one  cup  of  chopped  almonds.  Variety  can 
be  given  by  using  maraschino  syrup  and  cherries  and 
chopped  pecans  instead  oi  almonds  and  creme-de-menth e 
cherries. 

Frozen  Whipped  Cream. 

Whip  cream  ver}-  stiff,  sweeten,  flavor  and  color  if 
desired,  pack  in  moulds,  alternating  colors  and  flavor- 


128  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes. 

ings.  Fruits,  noits  and  different  flavorings  and  colors 
can  be  used,  and  packed  in  irregular  layers  giving  a  va- 
riet)\  Baking  powder  and  coca  cans  make  good  moulds 
for  packing,  are  easily  frozen  and  can  be  cut  in  good 
shapes  for  serving. 


'o* 


Frozen  Pudding. 

Cover  one  cup  of  mixed  chopped  fruits,  candied  pine- 
apple, cherries  and  citron  with  sherry  wine  and  let 
stand  two  hours.  Pooir  over  one  tablespoon  of  granu- 
lated! gelatine,  two  tablespoons  of  cold  water  and  let 
stand  twenty  minutes,  dissolve  with  two  tablespoons  of 
boiling  water.  Melt  one  ounce  of  chocolate,  add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  .sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  of  milk;  cook 
until  well  blended,  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  va- 
nilla and  cool.  "Whip  three  cups  of  cream  and  beat  int3 
it  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  va- 
nilla and  the  dissolved  gelatine.  Divide  the  cream  into 
two  portions,  add  the  drained  fruit  to  one  and  die  cho- 
colate mixture  with  three  dried  crushed  maccaroons  and 
one-half  cup  of  delicately  browned  chopped  almonds  to 
the  other.  Chill  a  mould  and  drop  the  mixture  in^  in 
irregular  laj'ers  alternating  them.  Seal  well  and  pack 
in  ice  'and  salt  four  hours. 

Frozen  Watermelon. 

Make  one  quart  of  pistaschio  cream,  color  light  green 
and  freeze  to  a  mush.     Freeze  one  quart  of  lemonade. 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJcles.  129 

whip  one  cup  of  cream  and  color  a  delicate  pink  and 
Eweeten,  soak  one-half  cup  of  sultana  raisins  in  a  little 
wine  one  hour.  Set  a  melon  mould  in  a  pan  of  ice  wa- 
ter, line  with  an  inch  or  more  of  pistaschio  cream,  then 
cover  this  well  with  frozen  lemonade,  arrange  raisins 
in  rows  to  resemhle  the  seed  of  melon.  Fill  with  the 
whipped  cream,  cover  all  over  with  more  pistachio 
cream,  cover  on  the  top  with  greased  paper,  greased 
side  up,  fit  the  top  on  well  and  seal  around  with  softened 
lard.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  two  and  one-half  hours. 

Individiml  Ices. 

Mould  cream  in  brick  moulds,  cut  in  slices,  cut  from 
slices  fancy  shapes,  hearts,  clubs,  diamonds,  crescents,  or 
use  any  shaped  cutter  desired.  Whip  cream  very  stiff, 
flavor  and  sweeten  and  color  if  preferred.  Garnish 
through  tube  and  pastry  bag  around  the  shapes.  Serve 
on  lace  paper  mats  or  in  nests  of  spun  sugar. 


i^^  t^f  ^7*  c^* 


!J\eceptacle5  for  "3ccs. 

c5*  di^*  ^^  ^^ 

Fill  a  square  or  oblong  mould  with  water,  pack  in 
ice  and  salt  until  it  has  frozen  an  inch  or  more  at  bot- 
tom and  sides.  Pour  out  the  unfrozen  water,  unmould 
and  fill  with  ice  cream  balls,  dipped  in  cocoanut. 

A  square  of  ice  cut  the  size  wanted  can  be  used  by 
burning  the  center  of  square  with  a  hot  iron.  Serve  on 
a  folded  napkin  to  absorb  the  melting  ice. 

Bi^iin  Sugar  Nests. 

Coil  spun  sugar  into  nests  and  place  moulded  ice 
in  center.  They  can  be  bought  at  confections  or  made 
at  home,  but  are  troublesome  where  many  are  wanted. 

Ice  Cups   No.  1. 

Set  tumblers  in  a  tub  of  ice  and  salt,  surround  them 
with  ice  and  salt,  fill  the  tumblers  with  fruit  syrup, 
ooYer  the  tub  with  a  cloth;  leave  until  it  has  frozen 
the  syrup  one-eighth  of  an  inche  thick  around  the  sides 
of  the  glass.     Pour  out  the  unfrozen  s}Tup^  set  the 

130 


Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes.  131 

tumblers  again  in  ice  a  few  moments.  When  ready  to 
?erve  unmould  and  fill  carefully  with  nut  or  fruit 
cream  or  any  frozen  dessert. 

Ice  Cups  No.  2. 

Fill  the  moulds  imitating  wine  glasses  or  any  pretty 
ehape,  with  water,  cover  securely,  pack  in  pounded  ice 
and  a  little  salt.  When  the  water  has  frozen  sufficiently 
to  take  the  form  of  the  mould,  pour  out  the  unfrozen 
water  and  serve  the  cups  on  a  small  plate  with  a  fancy 
mat  or  doily;  fill  stacked  up  high  with  a  frozen  sher- 
bet, plain  or  fruit.  Each  cup  can  be  made  a  different 
color,  and  is  a  very  attractive  way  of  serving  ices. 

Marshmallow  Baskets, 

Use  receipt  for  marshmallows  on  page  213.  Oil 
seme  small  round  or  oblong  moulds,  dust  over  lightly 
Avith  corn  starch  and  fill  with  marshmallow  mixture  be- 
fore it  becomes  too  stiff  to  pour.  Let  stand  until  stiff. 
It  will  take  several  hours.  Cut  out  the  center  leaving 
one-third  of  an  inch  margin  in  which  to  place  a  handle. 
Eemove  from  the  moulds,  insert  handles  made  of  wire, 
wrapped  with  very  narrow  ribbon,  whit©  or  colored, 
and  finished  with  a  tiny  bow  at  the  end's.  Decorate  the 
ddeg  and  edge  by  the  use  of  pastry  tube  and  bag  and 
in  any  design  that  suit?  the  fancy.     Fill  with  charlotte 


132  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlcles. 

msse,  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  creaim  or  a  frozen 
dessert.  Xougatine  cream  is  especially  good  with  this — 
see  page  127. 

If  the  moulds  used  are  very  small,  the  baskets  can 
be  filled  with  candies  or  nuts  and  served  as  bon-bons. 
If  larger  moulds  are  used  they  are  served  as  recepta- 
cles for  ices,  creams,  etc. 

Cal-e  Bounds  for  Serving  Ices. 

Cook  plain  white  cake  in  sheets  about  one  or  one  and 
one-half  inches  thick.  Cut  in  rounds  about  four  inches 
across.  Cut  out  centers,  ice  with  white  or  caramel  ic- 
ing, decorate  through  a  tube.  Fill  centers  with  cream, 
sherbert  or  charlotte  rus.se.     Serve  on  lace  paper  mat^. 

Cal'B  Basil  ets. 

Use  the  rounds  as  above  and  insert  covered  wires  or 
cover  the  wire  with  baby  ribbon  and  then  insert.  Or 
bake  orange  cake  and  plain  white  cake  in  small  moulds, 
cut  out  the  center,  invert  and  ice  w^ith  golden  filling  or 
any  colored  icing.  Insert  wire  for  handles.  Decorat3 
with  icing  pressed  through  a  tube,  fill  with  cream,  sher- 
bet or  charlotte.  Beautiful  baskets  can  be  m.ade  from 
cake  baked  in  pans  two  and  one-half  inches  deep  and 
cuft  in  shapes,  oblongs  or  rounds  or  squares.  Cut  out 
centers,  ice  over.  Use  small  round  tube  and  lattice  the 
sides  with  any  colored  icing.  Insert  handles  and  dec- 
orate with  tube. 


Cal'e^  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crlnldes.  133 

Candy  Baskets  No.  1. 

Four  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water, 
cook  until  it  boils.  Add  one  full  teaspoon  of  glucose 
and  four  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Cook  until  it  pops 
when  tried  in  cold  water,  and  pour  in  rounds  on  oiled 
slab.  When  it  begins  to  cool,  shape  over  tumblers  or 
fancy  moulds.     Decorate  v/ith  decorative  icino:  throuo-h 

"  O  CI 

tube  to  suit  the  taste.    Color  just  before  removing  from 
fire  by  adding  a  few  drops  of  fruit  coloring. 

Candy  BasJcets  No.  2. 

Use  the  above  recipe  leaving  out  the  glucose. 

Candy  Baskets  No.  3. 

Use  the  above  recipe.  Pour  on  oiled  slab  and  when 
it  is  cool  enough  to  handle  at  all  pull  until  it  is  very 
light.  Pull  off  small  pieces  and  stretch  over  moulds  or 
glasses.  These  are  beautiful  and  look  like  satin  and 
are  called  satin  baskets.  If  different  colors  are  wanted 
add  coloring  after  it  is  poured  out  and  then  pull  it  in. 

Almond  Paste  for  Lhiing  Moulds. 

Put  in  stewpan  one-half  pound  of  lump  sugar,  one- 
half  pound  of  ground  almonds,  three  tablespoons  of 
brandy,  one  teaspoon  of  strained  lemon  juice.  Color  or 
Qot  to  suit  taste.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  seven  or  eight 
minutes.  Line  oiled  moulds  with  pa^te  and  fill  with 
any  desired  filling.  Unmould  when  cold.  Small  fancy 
hon-bon  mocilds  can  be  used  lined  with  paste  and  filled 


134  CcJ:e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes. 

with  a  fondant  and  makes  a  delicionjs  confection  or 
larger  moulds  used  and  when  unmoulded  filled  with  a 
frozen  dessert  and  set  in  a  nest  oi  spun  sugar. 

Jelly  Cups, 

Make  a  fruit  or  wine  jelly  and  mould  in  round  cups 
two  and  one-half  or  three  inches  deep,  cut  out  the 
center  using  a  grape  fruit  knife.  Unmould  and  fill 
with  ice  cream  or  frozen  pudding.  Lemon  or  wine 
jelly  with  a  little  gold  or  silver  leaf  added  when  it  be- 
gins to  stiffen,  make  a  very  beautiful  and  brilliant 
jelly  cup,  the  leaf  comes  in  small  sheets  and  while  ex- 
pensive, requires  a  very  small  quantity  in  making  the 
jelly;  it  is  put  in  tiny  little  bits,  scattered  through  the 
jelly.  Gold  leaf  or  snowflake  jelly  can  be  moulded  in 
square  pans  one  and  one-half  to  two  inches  deep.  Un- 
mould on  a  wet  cloth,  cut  in  small  squares  or  rounds, 
cut  out  the  center;  for  gold  leaf  rounds  use  any  kind 
of  ice  in  center  and  chop  the  pieces  taken  from  the 
center  very  fine  and  sprinkle  over  top  of  cream;  snow- 
flake  jelly  rounds  are  attractive.  Pip  from  the  f:'eezer 
by  the  use  of  round  dipper  made  for  the  purpose, 
balls  of  cream,  drop  them  in  a  bowl  of  grated  cocoanut, 
place  in  the  center  of  rounds. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Cake. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


Cake. 


Things  to  be  rem-embered  iu 
mixing   and   baking   caKe. 

How  to  Mix  and  Bake  Fruit 
Cake. 

How  to  Mix  and  Bake  Augel 
Food    and    Spouge    Cake. 

Plain   White   Cake   No.   1. 

Plain  White  Cake  No.  2. 

Layer  Cake  No.  1. 

Layer   Cake    No.   2. 

Nut  Layer  Cake. 

Fruit  Layer  Cake. 

Cup    Cake. 

Potato  Cake  No.  1. 

Potato    Cake    No.    2. 

Orange  Cake. 

Filling    for    Orange    Cake. 

Chocolate   Caramel    Cake. 

Chocolate    Fudge    Cake. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Lady   Baltimore. 

Date  Cake. 

Date  Loaf. 


Cocoanu't  Cake. 

Snow  Balls. 

Spice  Cake   No.   1. 

Spice  Cake  No.  2. 

Spiced    Ginger   Cake. 

Boiled   llaisin   Cake. 

Jam   Fruit   Cake. 

Nut  Cake. 

Hazel   Nut   Cake. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Angel    Marshmallow    Cake. 

Angel   Food   Cake. 

Angel    Cake     with      Nut    and 

Whipped    Cream   Filling. 
Pome-de-Terres. 
Cocoanut  Puffs. 
Nut  Puffs. 

Hot   Water   Sponge  Cake. 
Yellow   Sponge  Cake. 
Sunshine    Cake    No.    1. 
Sunshine  Cake  No.  2. 
Sunshine  Cake  No.  3. 
Lady   Finger  Cake. 


German  Cakes. 


German  Cookies. 
Almond   Cake. 
Pepper  Nuts. 


Apple  Sauce  Cake. 
Brod   Kuchen. 


Doughnuts,   Wafers,    Tea   and   Little   Drop   Cakes. 


Doughnuts. 

Roiled  Wafers  No.  1. 

Rolled  Wafers  No.  2. 

Ginger   Wafers. 

Love  Wafers. 

Vanities. 

Tea  Cakes  No.  1. 

Tea  Cakes  No.  2. 

Sand    Tarts. 

Rocks. 


Oat  Meal   Cakes   No.  1. 
Oat  Meal  Cakes  No.  2. 
Honey  Tea  Cakes. 
Little   Drop   Cakes. 
Columl)ia  Drop   Cakes. 
New    Enghind    Drop    Cakes. 
Almond  Drop  Cake. 
Mock  Macaroons. 
Cocoanut   Macaroons. 
Brownies. 


Cake, 

t^f  ^^  ^7*  5^* 

The  chapter  on  how  to  mix  and  bake  cake  is  so  ex- 
plicit in  '"What  to  Cook  and  How  to  Cook  It/'  it  is  un- 
necessary in  this  volume  to  do  more  than  give  the 
things  to  be  remembered  with  some  general  directions. 
The  proportions  and  way  of  mixing  are  given  in  the  fol- 
lowing receipts,  the  change  in  mixing  now  and  th-en 
come  from  the  change  in  the  proportions. 

Things  to  he  remembered  in  mixing  and  hahing  cake. 

Always  sift  the  flour  and  sugar  before  measuring. 
Use  light  colored  butter^  rich  yellow  butter  does  not  make 
good  cake,  it  is  too  oily.  If  yellow  butter  must  be  used, 
bleach  by  washing  well  with  cold  water,  in  summer 
use  ice  water.     Pour  off  wat^er  and  add  lemon  juice. 

For  delicate  cake  where  butter  is  used,  line  the  bot- 
toms of  the  pans  with  oiled  paper,  or  manilla  paper 
brushed  over  with  lard.  For  muffin  or  little  mould 
cakes,  grease  the  pans  and  dust  lightly  wi^h  flour.  Bake 
with  an  increasing  heat;  avoid  having  the  oven  hot  at 
first. 

When  cake  rises  too  high  in  the  middle  too  much 
flour  has  been  used ;  when  it  cracks,  too  much  heat. 

137 


138  Cake,  Canchj  and  Cnlvnary  CrhiTcIes. 

Use  a  round  bottom  porcelain  bowl  and  woodea 
slotted  spoon  for  mixing. 

In  very  cold  weather  warm  the  bowl  in  which  you 
mix  the  cake,  also  the  flour  and  sugar.  Use  a  good 
quality  of  fine  granulated  sugar  and  winter  wheat 
flour  is  preferable. 

In  putting  batter  in  pans  allow  from  one-half  to 
three  inches  for  rising.  Allow  space  according  to  the 
size  of  cake  and  shape  of  pans. 

Layer  cakes  are  cooked  from  twenty  to  thrit}'-five 
minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  layers. 
Mould  cakes  from  forty  minutes  to  two  hours. 

Do  not  remove  mould  cakes  from  pan  until  cold. 

In  mixing  fruit  cake,  prepare  the  browned  flour, 
nuts  .and  fruit  before  beginning  to  make  the  cake.  See 
"What  to  Cook  and  How  to  Cook  It."    Page  159. 

Xever  stir  or  beat  sponge  or  angel  food  cake  batter. 

If  your  oven  cooks  too  quickly  for  cakes  and  pud- 
dings wrap  grea.sed  paper  around  the  moulds  or  pans. 

In  making  chocolate  glaze  melt  the  chocolate  and 
add  to  glaze  when  cool,  it  will  cloude  if  added  while 
hot. 

In  cutting  small  cakes  from  .sheet,  dip  your  knife 
in  warm  water  first  and  in  cutting  rounds  or  crescenits 
ice  or  glaze  over  before  cutting. 

How  to  Mix  and  Bake  Fruit  Cake. 

■Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  then  the  lightly  beaten 
yolks  of  QggS:,  sift  the  spices,  raising  material  and  flour 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinhles.  139 

together  and  add  next,  unless  molasses  is  used;  in  that 
case,  the  molasses  first,  then  the  flour,  etc.  Bea# 
the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff  and  stir  in,  add  the  nuts 
and  fruit  last.  If  brandy  or  wine  is  used,  add  just 
before  the  fruits  and  nuts  are  stirred  in. 

Put  the  batter  or  mixture  into  a  pan  or  mould, 
large  enough  to  allow  two  or  three  inches  for  the  rising. 
Set  this  into  a  pan  deep  enough  to  hold  several  inches 
of  water;  have  the  water  hot  and  put  in  a  rather  slow 
oven.  Cover  over  the  top  of  cake  mould  with  tin  top. 
Set  a  pan  of  hot  water  on  upper  grate.  Cook  in  this 
way  until  the  cake  has  risen  to  the  top  of  pan;  re- 
move the  top  and  continue  the  cooking  until  the  cake 
is  done  but  not  browned.  Take  pan  of  water  from 
upper  grate  and  cook  until  the  cake  browns. 

Cakeg  can  be  cooked  without  the  hot  water,  but  are 
much  more  moist  and  tender  cooked  in  this  way.  Leave 
in  the  pan  until  perfectly  cold.  Eun  a  spatula  around 
the  sides  of  pan  and  then  invert  the  pan  and  the  cake 
will  slip  out.  Cook  from  three  to  four  hours  accord- 
ing to  size  of  cake  and  the  quantity  of  fruit  used. 

How  to  Mix  and  Bal'e  Angel  Food  and  Sponge  Calce. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  light,  add  cream  of 
tartar  and  continue  the  beating  until  the  eggs  are  very 
stiff.  Beat  in  the  sugar  lightly,  add  the  flavoring  and 
fold  in  the  flour  as  lightly  as  possible.  aSTever  stir  or 
beat  the  batter,  it  breaks  the  enfolded  air  and  the  bat- 
ter falls  and  the  cake  will  be  touorh.    Bake  in  unorreas- 


140  Cal'e,  Candy  and,  Culinary  Crinlile^. 

ed  pans  in  a.  moderate  oven  and  witli  an  increasing  heat. 
If  nuts  or  fruits  are  used^  add  with  the  sugar. 

Sponge  cake  is  mixed  and  baked  very  much  in  t"^-" 
game  way  as  angel  food^  generally  adding  the  sugar  to 
the  yolks  of  eggs  and  beating  together  until  light ;,  the 
flour  is  folded  in  last,  then  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
(add  rising  material,  with  flour  if  any  is  used)  ;  the 
flavoring  is  added  with  yolks  and  sugar.  There  are 
some  variations  in  mixing  sponge  cake,  but  these  are 
the  general  rules. 

Plain  White  CsiJce  No,  1. 

One  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  siigar,  one  cup  of 
milk  or  water,  five  cups  of  flour,  two  full  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  whites  of  twelve  eggs.  Cream  the  but- 
•ter  and  add  the  flour,  alternating  with  milk.  Put  baking 
powder  in  the  last  cup  of  flour.  Beat  the  whites  very 
etifl,  add  sugar  gradually.  Combine  the  two  mixtures, 
adding  a  little  at  a  time.  Bake  in  a  mould  or  in  layer 
cake  pans.  This  is  a  delicious,  fine  grained  cake  and  is 
especially  good  for  baking  in  large  sheets  to  cut  into 
small  cakes.  Have  a  pan  made  twelve  by  fourteen  inches 
and  one  and  three-foorths  inches  deep;  line  the  pan  with 
greased  paper  and  cook  forty  to  fifty  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven  at  first,  then  increase  the  heat.  Turn  out  at  once 
when  done  on  a  folded  cloth,  let  stand  until  cold.  Trim 
and  cut  into  shape. 


Calie^  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJdes.  141 

Plwin  ]yhite  Calce  No,  z. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  butter,  two  and  one-haif 
cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
of  soda,  one  level  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Dis- 
solve in  one  tablespoon  of  hot  water  or  one  tablespoon 
whiskey  or  sherry  wine.  Mix  as  above  recipe.  Bake  in  a 
mould  with  stem.  Line  with  paper  and  grease  well. 
Bake  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours,  in  a  very  slow  oven 
at  firfst.  Cover  over  the  top  of  mould  with  greased  pa- 
per, put  a  pan  of  water  on  upper  grate,  leave  the  cover 
on  until  the  cake  has  risen  to  the  top  of  the  pan;  re- 
move the  greased  paper  and  continue  to  bake  it  until  it 
begins  to  brown,  then  take  the  pan  of  water  from  upper 
grate  and  finish  the  cooking,  always  observing  the  rule 
of  increasing  heat.      The  whites  of  fourteen  eggs. 

Layer  Cake  No.  1. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  or  water, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  eight  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  well  together,  al- 
ternate milk  and  flour,  adding  the  baking  powder  to 
the  last  cup  of  flour.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  last.  Bake  in  layer  cake  pans,  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes. 

Layer  Cake  No.  2. 

One-half     cup     of    butter,  two  cups  of     sugar,  two 


142  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinhles. 

and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla  or  one-half  teaspoon  of  almond  ex- 
tract. 

Nvi  Layer  Cttke. 

One-half  cup  of  hutter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
chopped  nuts,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  the 
whites  of  seven  eggs.  Fill  wdth  seafoam  icing  with 
nuts  added. 

Fruit  Layer  Cake. 

Three-fourths  cup  of  'butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  of  seeded 
c-'hopped  raisins  and  dates  mixed. 

Cup  Calce. 

Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups  of  sugar, 
add  one-half  cup  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten, 
thre«  cups  of  flour,  two  full  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der, the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  gem 
pans  or  in  layer  pans  or  in  a  mould. 

Potato  Cake  No.  1. 
Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  grannla- 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldcs.  143 

led  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cup 
of  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  one  and  one-half  cnps  of 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one  ar.d  one- 
half  cups  of  chopped  nuts,  four  eggs,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon, 
one  nutmeg. 

Potato  Cahe  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
potato,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  nutmeg, 
one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  cocoa  dissolved  in  three  teaspoons  of  hot 
water,  four  eggs. 

Orange  Cahe. 

Two  whole  eggs,  the  yolks  of  six,  three-fourths  cup 
of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
four  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoon  of  orange  juice,  and  the  grated  rind  of 
one-half  orange.  Follow  the  rules  for  mixing  and  bak- 
ing. 

Filling  for  Orange  C^he. 

'Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat  into  it  three-fourths 
cup  of  powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  melted 
biitter.     Dissolve  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  corn  starch 


144  Cake,  Candy  and  CuUnury  Crinldes. 

in  one-balf  cup  of  cold  water.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Then  add  the  above 
mixture  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Flavor  with  one- 
third  cup  of  orange  juice  and  one  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice.     Spread  betw^een  cakes  when  cold. 

Chocolate  Caram>el  Cahe. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  eg^^,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one-third  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Put  on  the  stove  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and 
one-half  cup  of  chocolate,  stir  until  dissolved  and  then 
stir  into  it  one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Boil  all  together  and  when  cool  flavor  with  vanilla. 
While  this  is  cooling,  beat  up  the  first  part  of  cake, 
add  the  chocolate  custard,  bake  in  layer  cake  pans  and 
fill  with  caramel,  chocolate  or  plain  white  icing. 

Chocolate  Fudge  Cake, 

One-half  cup  of  butt-er,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three- 
fourths  cups  of  flour,  two  squares  of  unsweetened  cho- 
colate, two  eggs  beaten  until  light,  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla;,  bake  in  shallow  pans  twenty  minutes. 

Miss  Alexaxdee. 

Chocolate  Cahe, 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
three-fourths  cup  of  butter  or  sour  milk,  one-half  cup 


■sr- 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  145 

of  boiling  water,  one  full  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  cups 
of  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half  cake  of  chocolate,  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Mix  soda  with  grated  chocolate 
and  pour  over  the  boiling  water,  let  stand  while  mix- 
ing cake;  bake  in  a  mould,  pan  with  stem.  Eemo^e 
when  cold,  cover  over  with  white  icing  No.  1.  When 
this  cools,  cover  with  a  caramel  or  chocolate  icing.  Fill 
the  center  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored 
with  chopped  almonds  enfolded,  or  it  can  be  cooked 
in  layer  pans  and  filled  with  a  layer  each  of  white  and 
chocolate  icing.  Fruits  and  nuts  can  be  added  to  the 
cake  batter.    Bake  in  a  loaf  pan  and  serve  without  icing. 

Lady  Baltimore. 

Three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cup  of  Su- 
gar, one-half  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  whites  of  six  eggs  and  one 
teaspoon  of  almond  extract.  Follow  directions  for  mix- 
ing, bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  the  following  icing: 

Soak  one-half  pound  of  seeded  chopped  raisins  and 
one-half  po'und  of  chopped  English  walnut  meats  in  one 
cup  of  sherry  for  one  hour.  ]\Iake  a  plain  white  icing  and 
flavor  with  rose  water  or  vanilla.  Mix  the  raisins  and 
nuts  with  a  small  portion  of  icing  and  spread  between 
cakes.  Spread  top  and  sides  with  plain  icing  or  reserve 
some  of  the  raisins  and  nuts  and  mix  in  with  icing 
and  spread. 


146  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinlcJes. 

Date  Cake. 

Cream  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter  until  soft  and 
add  one  and  one-third  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  eggs, 
cne-half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of 
flour,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  a  little  nutmeg  .and 
one-half  pound  of  dates,  stoned  and  chopped,  cne 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  all  the  ingredients 
together  until  light,  line  and  grease  a  shallow  pan, 
bake  forty  or  forty-five  minutes.  Eemove  from  pan,  cut 
in  squares  and  sprinkle  over  with  pulverized  su^ar.  One- 
half  cup  of  nuts  can  be  added  to  this  receipt  if  de- 
sired. 

Bate  Loaf. 

One  pound  of  seeded  dates,  one  pound  of  English 
Va,lnuts,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  four  eggs.  Seed  the  dates  and 
press  into  shape,  add  nuts;  sift  the  flour,  sugar^  salt 
and  baking  powder  together  and  mix  with  the  dates 
and  nuts,  beat  eggs  separately  and  work  the  yolk  with 
the  cake  mixture  ,stir  in  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  greased 
and  floured  shallow  pan  one  hour.  When  cold  re- 
move from  pan  and  cut  in  slender,  oblong  pieces. 
Stack  on  plate,  log  cabin  style. 

Cocoo/nut  Cake. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and 


Calte,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes.  147 

one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  po-wder,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  full  cup  of 
grated  cocoanut,  one-half  pound  of  blanched  shredded 
almonds,  one-fourth  pound  of  shredded  criton.  Mix 
and  bake  according  to  rules  for  mixing  and  baking 
loaf  cake.     Cook  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Snow  Balls. 

One-third  cup  buftter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  corn  starch,  two  teaspoons  oi 
baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  whites  of  foui 
eggs.  Steam  in  buttered  moulds  or  jelly  tumblers  with 
tin  tops  for  one^half  hour.  Eoll  in  pulverized  sugar, 
or  ice  over  and  roll  in  grated  cocoanut. 

Spke  Cal'e  No.  1. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der, six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  of  mace,  cinnamon  and 
allspice. 

Spice  Cahe  No.  2. 

One-half  pound  of  flour,  one*half  pound  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  six  ounces  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one-half  glass  of 
sherry  w4ne,  three  eggs,  one-tablespoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon and  allspice,  one-fourth  tablespoon  of  cloves,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  .soda.     Cream  butter  with  one-half  of 


148  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinhles. 

the  sugar,  beat  yolks  with,  other  one-half  and  mix  the 
two,  add  flour  into  which  the  spices  have  been  sifted, 
then  the  whites  well  beaten,  then  the  molasses  and  wine; 
lastly  the  buttermilk  into  which  the  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved. Bake  in  layers  and  fill  with  white  boiled  icing 
with  one-half  cuj)  of  pecans  and  raisins,  or  cook  in  loaf 
pan. 

Mississippi. 
Spiced  Gingier  Cake, 

One  cup  each  of  butter,  sugar  and  molasses,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  tea&poon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cup 
of  sour  cream,  one-half  grated  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon  if  desired. 

Boiled  Raisin  Cahe. 

Cover  one  and  one-half  cups  of  seeded  raisins  with 
boiling  water  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Cream 
ihree-fourths  cup  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  of  but- 
ter together,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one- 
half  cup  of  the  raisin  water  and  one  egg  beaten  lightly 
but  not  separated.  One  teaspoon  of  soda  should  be 
sifted  in  the  flour.  Add  one  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  the  raisins  well  dredged  with  flour, 
hake  thirty  or  forty  minutes. 

Jam  Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  or  white  su- 
gar, four  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  jam,  two  cups  of 


Calie,  Candy  and  Cnlinary  CrMIes,  149 

raisins,  if  desired,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  in  last  cup  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  cream,  one  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  a  little  nutmeg,  six  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Nut  Calce. 

Seven  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  butter,  two 
cups  of  .sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  of  raisins,  two  nutmegs,  one  tablespoon  of  cin- 
namon, two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  cups  of 
mixed  nuts  chopped,  one  wine  glass  of  whiskey.  Bake 
two  hours. 

Hazel  Nut  Cake. 

One-half  pound  of  hazel  nut  kernels,  one  cup  of  ground 
or  chopped  almonds,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
eight  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  crumbs,  flavor. 
Cook  slowly. 

Mrs.  Isaac  Price. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound 
of  browned  flour,  one  tablespoon  each  of  allspice  and 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg  and  cloves, 
twelve  eggs,  four  pounds  of  raisins,  one^half  pound  of 
citron,  one-fourth  pound  each  of  candied  orange  and 
lemon  peel,  onenhalf  poundt  each  of  crystallized  cherries 
and  pineapple,  one  pound  of  almonds  cut  fine  and  soaked 


150  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cnlinary  Crinlles. 

over  night  in  one-half  cnp  of  rose  water,  one  pound 
of  pecans,  one  glass  of  grape  jelly,  one-half  glass  of 
blackberry  cordial.  Cut  fruit  in  small  piec-es  and  soak 
over  night  in  one  cup  of  good  whiskey  or  brandy.  Fol- 
low directions  for  mixing  fruit  cake  andi  stir  into  the 
batter  just  before  putting  in  the  fruit,  one  square  of 
melted  chocolate  (about  two  teaspoonsfull),  bake  four 
hours. 

Angel  Mwshmallow  Cake, 

Whites  of  thirteen  eggs  beaten  one-half.  Then  add 
one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very 
stiff.  Sift  in  gradually  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of 
sugar,  flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  fold  in  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour  previously  sifted  several 
times.  Bake  in  layer  cake  pans  about  twenty  minutes. 
^Tien  cool  fill  with  marshmallow  frosting.  Ornament 
the  top  with  marshmallow,  cut  in  triangles. 

Angel  Food  Cake. 

The  whites  of  eleven  large  or  twelve  small  eggs  oeat- 
en  stiff,  one  and  one-half  scant  cups  of  flour,  one  and 
three-fourtlis  cup  of  STigar,  one  scant  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar,  following  above  directions  for  mixing  and 
baking. 

Angel  Cake  ivith  Nut  and  Whipped  Cream  Filling. 

Make  angel  food  and  bake  in  layers,  or  bake  in 
mcii]d  and  split.     Whip  cream  very  stiff,  sweeten  and 


Cal'c,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinltles.  151 

flavor  to  taste  and  add  chopped  almonds;  put  between 
layers;  it  can  be  iced  with  marshmallow  icing  if  de- 
sired and  nuts  sprinkled  over. 

Pome-de~Terres. 

Cook  angel  food  cake  in  square  pans  two  inches 
deep,  break  in  irregular  pieces,  dip  in  plain  white  icing, 
sprinkle  over  with  cinnamon.  Angel  food  baked  in 
loaf  pans  can  be  used  the  same  way,  but  layer  pans 
make  a  larger  yield  and  are  easier  to  break  into  the 
size  pieces  desired. 

CGcoin^it  Fuffs. 

Prepare  angel  food  as  for  the  above  receipt,  dip  in 
white  icing  and  drop  into  a  bowl  of  grated  fresh 
cocoanut.     Coat  them  well  with  cocoanut. 

Nut  Puffs, 

Use  angel  food  as  above,  coat  over  with  icing  and  roll 
in  cihopped  nuts. 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  two  rounding  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder.  Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  together, 
until  light,  pour  on  boiling  water,  add  the  flour  and 


153  Cal^e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes. 

baking  powder,  fold  in  the  v/liites  beaten  stiff.  Bake 
in  ungreased  pans  lined  witli  paper,  either  in  layers 
or  mould. 

Yellow  Sponge  Cake. 

Twelve  ^ggi>y  the  weight  of  ten  eggs  in  sugar  and  of 
six  eggs  in  flour,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  salt- 
spoon  of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  separately  until  very 
light,  add  sugar  to  yolks  then  the  juice  and  rind  of 
lemon  and  the  salt.  Fold  in  the  whites  and  then  the 
flour.  Bake  in  layers  or  a  mould  in  an  ungreased  pan 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Bake  fifty  or  sixty  minutes. 

Virginia. 

Sunshine  Cake  No.  1. 

Whites  of  seven  large  or  eight  small  eggs,  the  yolks 
of  six,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  cup  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately  until  very  light.  When  the  whites  are  half 
beaten,  add  the  cream  of  tartar.  Fold  the  sugar  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  then  the  yolks,  then  the  flour. 
Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

Sunshine  Cake  No.  2. 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  yolks  of  four,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  flavor  to  taste.  Mix 
as  Sunshine  Xo.  1.  A  pinch  of  salt  added  to  the 
whites  before  beating,  stiffens  the  albumen  and  makes 


Cahe^  Candij  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  153 

the  €ggs  whip  quicker  and  stand  better.    Bake  thirt}'-five 
or  forty  minutes. 

Sunshine  Cake  No.  3. 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  yolks  of  five,  one  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-third  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  flavoring  to  taste.  One  cup  of  flo-ur,  mix 
as  Sunshine  No.  1. 

Lady  Finger  Cake. 

Six  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  one-half  lemon 
an(3  grated  peel  of  one,  six  lady  fingers.  Beat  yolks 
and  sugar  together  until  light,  add  lemon  juice  and 
peel,  add  lady  fingers  crumbled  or  grated  fine,  fold 
in  the  whites,  bake  slowly  in  shallow  round  mould. 

Mrs.  Isaac  Price. 


t^  ^*  c^  ^w 


(Btvman  (Takes. 

i^  K^  k3^  i^ 

German  Cookies. 

Two  pounds  of  strained  honey  or  one  quart  of  ma- 
ple syrup,  one  pound  of  light  brown  sugar,  three- 
fourths  pound  stale  sponge  cake  crumbs,  one-half 
ounce  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  gill  of  whiskey,  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-half 
ounce  of  allspice,  one  nutmeg,  one  tablespoon  Carde- 
man  seed.  One  pound  of  almonds  cut  fine,  one  pound 
of  citron  and  orange  peel,  two  and  one-half  pounds 
of  flour.  Warm  syrup  and  sugar  together,  then  cool 
and  add  soda  and  spices,  etc.,  lastly  flour  and  mix 
well,  roll  thin. 

Almond  Cake,  -"- 

One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  pound  of  al- 
monds chopped  fine  and  roasted.  Four  eggs,  one  pound 
of  citron,  one  teaspoon  eaA  of  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  or  more  cups  of 
flour,  roll  out,  cut  and  cook  quickly. 

154 


c 


Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes.  155 

Pepper  Nuts, 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  four  eggs, 
two  pinches  of  cloves,  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  cin- 
namon, eleven  white  pepper  cones  ground,  grated  peel 
of  one  lemon,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  roll 
into  little  balls;  leave  until  dry,  if  possible  over  night, 
turn  over  and  leave  until  dry.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

'Apple  Sauce  Cake, 

Two  cups  of  unsweetened  apple  sauce,  two  cups  of 
white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  raisins, 
one  cup  of  currants,  citron  and  almonds,  if  you  like. 
Four  cups  of  flour,  one  'teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
one-third  cup  of  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  as  fruit  cake  in 
moderate  oven. 

Brod  Kuchen. 

'Stir  two  whole  eggs  and  yolks  of  six  eggs,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  almonds,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  citron;  stir  until  very  light,  add 
juice  of  one-fourth  of  lemon,  one-half  glass  of  sherry 
wine;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  stiff  and  mix  alternate- 
ly with  mixture  with  one-half  cup  of  rye  bread  crumbs 
ground  fine. 


iDouQ^nuts,  Wafers,  "Cea  anb    Cittle 
"!2)rop  Cakes. 

t^*  e^*  ^^  CT* 

Doughnuts, 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  six  level 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
JRoll  out  in  shape  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Sprinkle  over 
with  pulverized  sugar. 

Rolled  Wafers  No.  1. 

Three  eggs,  one  full  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  cups  of  flour.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  whites  beaten  stiff  then  flour.  Have  wa- 
fer irons  hot,  grease  well,  put  a  small  spoonful  on 
iron,  cook  o,uickly  and  roll  while  hot  into  rounds  or  into 
<?ornucopia  shape.  Or  they  can  be  shaped  over  timbal 
m.oulds  into  baskets  and  used  as  receptacles  for  cream, 
charlotte,  etc. 

Rolled  Wafers  No  2. 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  powdered 
156 


Calve,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes.  157 

gugar,  one-fourth  cup  of  milk,  seven-eighths  cup  of 
flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cook  in  wafer 
irons  and  roll  while  hot. 

Ginger  Wafers. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
of  ginger.  Warm  the  butter  and  sugar  slightly  and 
cream  together,  add  milk,  ginger  and  flour.  Butter 
a  baking  sheet.  Spread  batter  on  very  thin  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Cut  into  squares  or  rounds  while 
hot.     Cut  hole  in  center  and  string  several  together. 

Love  Wafers. 

One  egg  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Work  iruto  this  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Eoll  as  thin  as  possible.  Cut  into  rounds.  Put 
into  boiling  lard,  turn  over  and  take  out.  Sprinkle  with 
pulverized  sugar. 

% 

Vanities. 

Work  into  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  salted  and 
beaten,  enough  flour  to  roll  out.  Roll  very  thin  and 
cut  into  three  inch  squares.  Fold  three  cornered  and 
over  again.  Make  an  incision  half  way  between  points. 
Fry  in  hot  fat.     Sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar. 

Mrs.  Morsran. 


158  Cake,  Candy  a7id  Culinary  Criiihles. 

Tea  Cake  No,  1. 

Tliree  eggs,  three  ewps  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  one  cup  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
thin,  bake  in  a  niod'erate  oven  a  delicate  brown.  Sprin- 
kle granulated  sugar  over  them  just  before  putting  in 
the  oven. 

After  the  cakes  are  rolled,  ready  for  baiking,  sprinkle 
over  puffed  rice  and  bake  until  brown. 

Tea  Cake  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
flavor,  one  cup  of  pecans,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one-half 
teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  cloves  allspice  and  cinnamon, 
one  scant  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  five  tablespoons 
of  cold  water.  As  little  flour  as  possible  to  make  a 
dough  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Eoll  thin,  cut  and  bake 
quickly. 

Sand  Tar  Is. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cnp  •^^ 
of  butter,  two  yolks  and  one  white  of  egg.  Flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  cream  butter  and  su- 
gar together,  add  the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites,  add  just  enough  flour  to  roll;  roll  quite 
thin,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  a  delicate  brown.  Sprinkle 
granulated  .sugar  over  them  just  before  putting  in  the 
oven. 


Cal^c,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinWes.  159 

Bocks. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  but- 
ter; cream  together.  Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  of  cloves,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  walnuts, 
one-half  pound  of  seeded  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of  hot  water.  DrO'p 
on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Oat  Meal  Cakes  No,  1. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  bitter  al- 
mond, three  and  one-half  cups  of  quaker  oats,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  on  greased  baking 
sheet  and  remove  while  hot. 

Oat  Meal  Calces  No.  2. 

<',  One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one^half  cup- 
""  ful  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  pack- 
age of  oatmeal,  one  nutmeg,  grated,  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  ginger,  same  of  cinnamon  and  half  as  much  of 
cloves,  and  flour  to  make  as  soft  a  dough  as  can  b^ 
handled,  as  the  less  flour  used  the  crisper  they  will 
be  when  baked.  Make  a  ball  about  as  large  as  a  wal- 
nut, roll  in  the  hands,  then  flatten  as  thin  as  possible. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  a  rich  golden  brown.  A  cup- 
ful of  raisins  or  half  a  cupful  of  chopped  nut  meats 
or  both,  are  an  improvement. 


160  CoJce,  Candij  and  Cvlinarij  Crinldes. 

Honey  Tea  Cakes. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of  softened  but- 
ter, mix  together,  make  into  a  dough  with  one-fourth 
cup  of  molasses^  one  cup  of  strained  honey^  one-fourth 
cup  of  water  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  soda,  bake 
on  greased  baking  sheets. 

Little  Drop  Calces. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  two  eggs.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  then  milk, 
the  unbeaten  eggs,  flour  and  baking  powder.  Drop 
in  small  rounds  two  inches  apart  on  ungreased  baking 
sheets.  Cook  quickly.  This  receipt  can  be  divided  into 
several  parts,  and-  different  colorings,  flavorings,  nuts 
and  fruits,  candied  orange  peel,  cocoanut,  chocolate, 
citron,  spice  and  ginger  can  be  added  giving  a  great 
variety. 

Columlia  Drop  Cakes. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  three  cups  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons 
of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  allspice,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one 
poun<i  of  seeded,  chopped  dates,  one  pound  of  chopped 
nuts.  Do  not  beat  the  eggs.  Bake  on  ungreased  sheets 
two  or  three  inches  apart. 


Cale^  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes.  161 

New  England  Drop  Cakes. 

Creami  one  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  of 
boiling  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  a  scant 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  cloves,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  mace,  jlix 
one  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour  with  one  cup  of 
chopped  (not  too  fine)  nuts,  one  cup  of  raisins  or  one- 
half  cup  each  of  raisins  and  currants.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  drop  on  greased  baking  sheet,  one  inch 
and  a  half  apart. 

Almond  Drop  Cake. 

'Cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar  together  until  light,  add  one-half  cup  of  sweel: 
milk,  itwo  eggs  unbeaten  and  three  cups  of  flour  with 
one  teaspon  of  baking  powder  added.  Beat  all  well  to- 
gether and  add  one  pound  of  chopped  almonds.  Drop 
:'^^^^  on  ungreased  pans  in  small  rounds,  cook  quickly.  One 
~  ^\  tablespoon  of  -cinnamon  can  be  added  if  desired,  and 
brown  sugar  used  instead  of  white. 

Moch  Macaroons. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  light  (but  not  stiff) 
and  add  gradually  beating  all  the  w^hile  two  cups  of 
browTi  sugar,  that  has  been  rolled  well  so  there  will 
be  no  lumps,  fold  in  two  cups  of  finely  chopped  pc- 


162  Cdke^  Candy  and  Cidlnary  CrinMes. 

can  meats.     Drop  on  buttered  baking  sheet,  two  inches 
apart  and  in  a  slow  oven,  cook  until  a  delicate  brown. 

Cocoanut  Macaroons. 

'Grate  one  medium  sized  cocoanut  and  mix  with  two 
cups  of  sugar.  Set  in  a  warm  oven  to  dry.  When 
cool  stir  into  it  the  whites  of  two  unbeaten  eggs.  Drop 
in  small  rounds  on  ungreased  paper.  Put  one  split 
almond  on  each.  Cook  in  a  very  slow  oven  until  a 
Hght  brown. 

Brownies. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  two 
eggs  beaten  together,  add  one-half  cup  of  flour,  three 
squares  of  melted  chocolate  and  one  cup  of  nuts  chop- 
ped. Line  a  pan  with  paper  and  grease  well,  put  in 
the  cake  and  cook  about  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
when  cold  and  cut  in  slenjder  piece. 

Miss  Susan  Morton. 


i^^  t^i  ^w  ^7* 


^^ 


CE AFTER  IX. 
Ices  and  Cake  Decorations. 


s. 


CHAPTER  IX. 


Icings. 


Directions  for   Making. 

Directions  for  Icing  Calie. 

Directions  for  Cutting',  Dip- 
ping and  Icing  Small  or 
Individual    Cakes. 

Tubes    Made    from    Paper. 

Flower   Decorations. 

How  to  Dip  Cake  in  Fondant 

I'lair.  White  Icing  No.  1. 

Plain    White    Icing    No.    2. 

Plain    White    Icing    No.   3. 

Decorative  Icing  No.  1. 

Decorative  Icing  No.  2, 

i>ecorative    Icing    No.    3. 

Decorative   Icing   No.   4. 

Decorative    Icing    No.    5. 

Cocoanut    Icing. 

Marshmallow    Icing    No.    1. 

Marshmallow    Icing    No.    2. 

Marshmallow    Filling. 

Marshmallow  and  Caramel 
Filling. 

Fondant    or    Candy    Icing. 

Golden    Icing. 

Cream   Caramel. 


Caramel   Icing. 

Prauline    Icing. 

Prauline   Filling. 

Maple    Syrup    Icing. 

Peafoam   Icing. 

Chocolate    Icing. 

Soft    Chocolate    Filling. 

'Chocolate    Frosting. 

Mocha    Frosting. 

Vienna    Chocolate    Icing. 

Vienna   Vanilla    Icing. 

Cream  Filling. 

Almond   Filling    No.   1. 

Almond  Filling  No.  2. 

Fruit  Custard  Filling  No.  1. 

Fruit  Custard   Filling   No.  2. 

Fruit    Icing. 

Sunshine   Filling. 

Divinity    Icing. 

Glaze  for  Covering  Cakes. 

Almond  Pasite  to  spread  on 
Cakes. 

To  Combine  doings  and  Fill- 
ings with  Cake. 


3cln3  anb  (Take  iDecoratlons. 

^^  f^  t^  t^ 

Directions  for  Making. 

The  proportions  of  sugar  and  egg  differ  according 
to  (the  kind  of  icing  you  desire,  a  soft  creamy  one 
or  one  that  hardens  quickly.  The  way  the  syrup  is 
poured  on  the  egg — the  degree  to  which  it  is  cooked 
and  the  way  the  e.ggs  are  beaten,  all  have  to  do  with  the 
quality  of  icing.  Some  icings  require  the  eggs  to 
be  beaten  very  stiff,  others  only  until  light  and  some 
not  at  all. 

The  sugar  is  generally  cooked  to  the  soft  ball  or 
thread  stage.  When  it  spins  a  hair  from  the  point 
of  a  spoon,  or  can  be  rolled  between  the  fingers  to 
form  a  soft  ball,  it  is  ready  to  pour  over  the  eggs. 

The  best  quality  of  cane  sugar  should  be  used,  as 
much  of  the  success  of  the  icing  depends  upon  the 
ouality  of  sugar. 

The  syrup  should  be  poured  on  the  eggs  very  slowly 
in  a  very  fine  stream;  it  then  cooks  the  eggs  with  a 
small  degree  of  heat  and  the  icing  ig  made  creamy. 
When  the  syrup  is  poured  on  rapidly  the  eggs  ar^"* 
cooked  too  quickly  and  the  icing  becomes  hard  and 
sometimes  grainy,  and   often  falls  from   the  cake  in 

165 


166  Cake,  Cmidy  and  Cnlinary  Crinlles. 

flakes.  If  the  syrup  should  cook  a  d€*gree  or  two  too 
much,  add!  a  spoonful  of  hot  water  to  it  before  pour- 
ing over  the  eggs.  A  drop  or  two  of  lemon  juice,  a 
pinch  of  creami  of  tartar  added  to  the  egg  will  cut 
the  grain  of  sugar  and  render  the  icing  creamy. 

If  after  beating  the  icing  until  cold  it  does  not 
cream,  put  it  over  (not  in)  a  vessel  of  boiling  water 
and  cook  a  few  minutes  beating  all  the  while.  When 
it  is  heated  through,  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat 
until  cool,  when  it  will  cream. 

Directions  for  Icing  Cake. 

If  you  are  icing  a  white  cake,  trim  off  the  crust  be- 
fore spreading  the  icing.  If  the  crust  should  be  hard 
cover  cake  over  with  a  damp  cloth  which  will  soften 
the  crust  when  it  can  be  trimmed  easily.  A  layer 
cake  should  be  cut  into  shape  before  the  icing  is 
spread.  Use  a  spatula  for  spreading.  Pile  the  icing 
thick  enough  in  center  of  cake  to  cover  top  and  sides. 
If  in  icing  a  la^'er  cake  the  icing  should  not  be  quite 
firm  enough  to  hold  the  layers  together  well,  stick  a 
skewer  in  the  center.  This  will  prevent  them  from 
slipping,  when  the  icing  is  set  it  can  be  removed. 

Dvrections  for  Cutting,  Dipping  and  Icing  Small  or 
Individual  Cakes. 

Individual  cakes  are  made  from  plain  cake,  either 
white,  yellow,  fruit  or  nut  cake  mixtures   couked   in 


C(d-(\  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldcs.  167 

square  pans  from  three-fourths  to  one  and  one-fourth 
inches  deep.  When  cold  trim  off  the  crust  and  cut  into 
any  desired  shape.  Diamonds,  triangles  and  squares 
can  be  cut,  using  a  sharp  knife  without  any  waste  of 
cake.  Round  and  fancy  cutters  are  used  to  give  va- 
riety. There  is  some  waste,  but  the  scraps  can  be 
utilized  in  making  custards  and  puddings.  Little 
cakes  can  also  be  cooked  in  moulds  bought  for  the 
purpose  in  a  variety  of  shapes,  if  these  are  used  the 
crust  is  not  trimmed  off.  Small  cakes  can  be  either 
dipped  in  fondant  or  icings  by  the  use  of  a  skewer,  or 
icing  can  be  spread  on  with  a  spatula.  Dipping  is 
much  easier  and  more  satisfactory. 

In  ornamenting  small  cakes,  simple  decorations  can 
he  made  by  the  use  of  candied  fruits,  nuts,  cherries 
and  pineapple  chopped  fine  and  sprinkled  over  them. 
Pistachio  nuts,  chopped  almond's  blanched  and  split 
and  put  on  to  represent  daisies  with  a  hit  of  raisin  in 
the  center;  little  candies  and  angelique  can  be  used  to 
give  variety.  Cocoanut  grated  can  also  be  used  to  make 
snow  balls,  but  the  greatest  variety  and  most  artistic  re- 
sults are  ohtained  by  the  use  of  pastry  bags  and  tubes. 
I'he  bags  are  made  of  rubber  cloth,  which  can  be 
bought  for  sixty  or  seventy-five  cents  per  yard.  One- 
third  of  a  yard  will  make  three  or  four  bags.  The 
tubes  of  tin  or  brass  can  be  bought  in  any  shape  or 
size.  Sets  of  twelve  tubes,  one  nozzle  and  one  bag 
costs  one  dollar  and  a  half  and  are  used  with  great 
convenience  as  different  tubes  can  be  used  with  only  one 


168  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidlnary  Crinl-lcs. 

bag  by  unsorewing  one  tube  from  the  nozzle  and  insert- 
ing another.  Conventional  designs,  flowers,  fruits  and 
figures  can  all  be  made  by  the  use  of  the  itubes  and  dec- 
orative icing.  The  leaf,  round  and  rose  tubes;  are  the 
most  used  as  they  make  the  largest  variety  of  flowers. 
'The  leaf  tube  is  used  for  making  ro&es,  violets,  lilies, 
sweetpeas  and  daisies.  The  star-shape  makes  carna- 
tions, chrysanthemums  and  etheT  flowers;  the  plain, 
round  tube  is  used  for  stems  O'f  flowers,  side  decorations, 
forget-me-nots,  lily  of  the  valley  and  bow  knots. 

Tubes  Made  from  Paper, 

Get  a  good  quality  of  bond  paper,  size  eight  by  ten 
and  fold  into  cornucopia  shape,  pin  together  near  the 
point  and  cut  the  point  'to  suit  the  kind  of  flower  or 
design  to  be  made.  By  cutting  a  piece  from  the  end 
of  tube  the  shape  of  the  letter  V,  the  leaf  tube  is  formed 
from  which  so  many  flowers  are  made.  Increasing  or  de- 
creasing the-  size  of  the  cut  both  in  length  and  breadtth, 
the  size  and  shape  of  the  flower  petals  ca.n  be  secured. 
Two  small  cuts,  the  same  shape  side  by  side,  give  the 
star  tube  from  which  chrysanthemums  and  carnations 
are  made.  The  stem  tube  is  made  by  simply  cutting 
a  bit  from  the  end  of  the  tube,  the  amount  cut,  'depend- 
ing upon  the  size  of  opening  desired. 

Flower  Decorations, 

Use  decorative  icing  No.  1  or  2. 
Cii.t   cake   into   shapes   and   fasten    them   to    small 


Calc,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinMes.  169 

pieces  of  cardboardi  by  the  use  of  a  little  icing.  Spread 
them  over  smoothly  and  evenly  with  the  icing,  use 
a  tube  with  small  round  opening  and  make  the  side 
decoration  which  can  be  done  in  white  or  colors  and 
in  almost  any  design.  I>i*aw  some  simple  pattern  on 
a  piece  of  paper  and  copy  them  on  the  cake,  embroid- 
ery patterns  can  be  copied  or  used  as  a  guide.  Divid* 
the  icing  into  as  many  portions  as  colors  to  be  used  and 
mix  the  color  paste  in  a  small  portion  of  the  icing  and 
then  lightly  fold  this  into  the  full  portion.  Put  ithe 
mixtures  in  small  plates  or  porcelain  or  china  bowls, 
cover  over  with  oiled  paper  as  a  crust  will  form  over 
them  if  exposed  to  the  air.  Have  all  the  colors  and 
tubes  ready  before  beginning  the  work;  fill  with  icing, 
folding  the  top  of  tube  in  a  way  to  prevent  the  icing 
from  coming  out  of  the  tube.  The  tube  con- 
taining the  green  icing  is  first  used  to  form  the  stems 
of  flowers,  then  take  the  tube  with  the  flower-cut  end 
and  hold  the  point  so  it  will  barely  touch  the  cake 
and  press  gently,  not  moving  the  tube  until  you  have 
pressed  out  the  size  of  the  petal  you  desire.  Stop 
the  pressing  as  soon  as  the  petal  is  formed  and  lift 
the  tube,  continue  to  make  the  petal?  of  flowers  in  thi? 
way,  arranging  them  in  proper  places  to  form  the 
ghape  of  the  fl^ower;  leaves  and  bow-knot  are  put  on 
last. 

Forms  of  some  flowers  and  fruits  are  made  by  adding 
X  X  X  X  sugar  to  a  portion  of  the  icing  until  it  is  firm 
and    working    it    until   it    is  as    pliable     as    putty; 


170  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrlnUes. 

(c]or  to  suit  the  flower.  Take  a  small  portion  in  the 
hands  and  shape.  Morning  glories,  jonquils  and  fruits 
are  niad€  -in  ithis  way;  with  a  little  practice  they  can 
be  made  so  natural  one  can  scarcely  believe  them  to  be 
artificial. 

Eow  to  Dip  Cake  in  Fonda/nt 

The  receipt  for  fondant  with  directions  for  making 
is  on  page  193. 

Put  a  small  quantity  in  a  double  boiler  and  melt 
over  hot  water,  stirring  all  the  while.  Stick  a  small 
skewer  in  the  cake  and  dip  into  the  fondant.  Keep  the 
fondant  over  hot  water,  all  during  the  dipping  and  if 
it  becomes  too  stiff  thin  with  a  small  quantity  of 
&yrup  made  by  cooking  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half 
cur)  of  water  together  fifteen  minutes. 

In  flavoring  fondant  use  only  a  few  drops  at  a  time 
a?  it  takes  very  little  liquid  to  dilute  it  and  it  may 
become  too  thin.  In  this  case  add  a  little  more  fond- 
ant. It  can  be  colored  and  flavored  \^ith  different  fruit 
colorings  and  flavorings  and  give  great  variety. 

Plain  White  Icing  No,  1. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of 
water,  whites  of  two  eggs.  Put  the  sngar  and  water 
on  and  cook  until  it  hairs.  Pour  in  a  fine  stream  very 
slowly  on  to  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  If  your 
syrup  is  not  sufficiently  done  put  icing  over,  not  in 


Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  171 

hot  water  and  continue  to  beat  and  cook  until  it 
creams.  If  your  syrup  is  cooked  too  much,  add  a  little 
hot  water  to  it  before  pouring  on  the  egg.  A  drop 
or  two  of  lemon  juice  or  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 
will  remedy  it  also. 

Plain  Whiie  Icing  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  white  of  one 
egg,  beat  the  egg  until  light,  not  stiff,  cook  sugar  and 
water  until  it  hairs,  pour  on  to  egg  very  slowly,  beating 
all  the  while. 

Plain  White  Icing  No.  3. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water.  Cook  to- 
gether until  it  hairs,  pour  over  the  unbeaten  white  of  one 
egg.  Beat  until  creamy.  This  is  a  good  receipt  for 
icing  individual  cakes.  Put  a  cake  on  a  flat  paddle, 
pour  a  spoon  of  icing  on  and  use  a  spatula  to  spread. 
The  icing  dries  quickly  and  makes  a  gloss  while  the 
inside  keeps  creamy  and  soft. 

Decorative  Icing  No.  1. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water.  Cook  un- 
til it  hairs.  Pour  over  the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten 
about  half,  pouring  in  a  small  fine  stream.  Beat  un- 
til it  begins  to  cool  then  add  one  teasipoon  of  lemon 


172  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinTcIes. 

juice  and  continue  to  beat.  It  shouldi  be  very  white 
and  creamy  and  stand  perfectly  stiff.  If  it  should  not 
do  this  after  adding  the  lemon  juice,  add  a  pinch  of 
tartaric  acid. 

Decorative  Icing  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water.  Cook  un- 
til it  drops  heavy  from  tlie  spoon.  Pour  slowly  over 
tlie  whites  of  two  €'ggs,  beaten  very  stiff.  Put  this 
over  hot  water  and  when  the  wat^r  begins  to  boil,  add 
one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  or  a  pinch  of  tartaric 
acid.  Continue  to  beat  and  cook  until  the  icing  stands 
alone  and  tastes  creamy.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
fold  in  the  flavoring  and  continue  the  folding  until 
the  icing  begins  to  cool.  This  is  a  beautiful  and  de- 
licious icing  and  if  kept  covered  with  oiled  paper  will 
keep  in  a  creamy  state  for  an  indefinite  time.  It  can 
be  miacle  in  large  quantities  and  kept  on  hands;  do  not 
beat  it  after  it  is  done,  but  fold  over  and  over  until  cool. 

Decorative  Icing  No.  3. 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  stiff.  Beat  into  it 
slowly,  enough  pulverized  sugar  to  make  stiff  enough 
to  stand  in  points  from  a  spoon.  Add  a  teaspoon  of 
Jemon  juic-e,  alternating  it  with  the  sugar. 

Decoraiive  Idng  No.  4. 

TJ«e  the  same  ingredients  and  proportions  as  No.  3. 


Cal-p^  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlclcs.  173 

Add  the  sugar  gradually,  alternating  with  lemon  juice, 
to  the  unbeaten  white  of  egg.  Nos.  3  and  4  icings 
are  used  for  decorating  mints,  candy  baskets,  bonbons, 
and  so  forth. 

Decorative  Icing  No.  5. 

Adldl  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  citric  acid  'to  the  whites 
of  threes  eggs  and  beat  until  stiff.  Cook  three  cups  of 
sugar  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water  together  un- 
til it  hairs;  pour  very  slowly  in  a  fine  stream  over  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  beating  all  fthe  while,  continue  to 
beat  until  it  is  cool  and  stands  alone. 

Cocoanut  Icing, 

Use  plain  white  icing,  'stir  freshly  grated'  co'coanut  in. 
Sprinkle  over  the  tops  and  sides  while  the  icing  is 
moist  andi  the  cocoanut  adheres  well  without  any 
trouble. 

MarslimaUow  Icing  Xo.  1. 

Put  one  pound  of  marshmallows  and  one-half  cup 
of  water  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  until  melted.  Add 
one-third  cup  or  more  of  orange  juice  and  one-half 
oup  of  chopped  fruits  and  nuts.  Eemove  from  the  fire 
and  beat  until  co-ld.  Spread  between  cakes  and  ice  over 
the  top  with  plain  white  icing. 

Marshmdllon}  Icing  No.  2. 

Use  white  icing,  and  just  before  spreading  it  on 
the  cake,  melt  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  marshmallows 


174  Cal^e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinfcles. 

by  putting  three  tablespoons  of  hot  water  over  them 
and  set  in  vessel  off  hot  water,  beat  nntil  cold.  Pour  the 
melted  marshmallow  into  the  icing,  spread  between 
and  over  the  tops  and  sides  of  cake,  and  ornament 
the  top  wiith  marshmallows  cut  in  halves  and  quarters. 

Marslinmllow  Filling, 

iSoak  one  level  tablespoon  of  granulated  gelatine  in 
one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water  twenty  minutes,  dissolve 
in  one-fourth  cup  of  boiling  water,  beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  stiff  and  beat  into  them  the  dissolved  gela- 
tine, pouring  it  in  gradually,  beat  in  three-fourths  cup 
of  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  any  desired  extract 
or  liquor;  color  or  not  to  suit  the  taste,  fruits  and 
nuts  can  be  added  if  desired.  "When,  nearly  stiff ^  pour 
in  shallow  pans  the  size  of  cake  on  which  it  is  to  be 
U'sed,  unmould  and  stack  with  cake,  alternating  eake 
and  filling. 

MwrshmaUmv  and  Caramel  Filling. 

Four  cups  of  white  sugar,  and  one  cup  of  cream.  Put 
three  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  cream  on  to  cook 
in  a  vessel  and  at  the  siame  time  melt  in  a  hot  skillet 
the  remaining  cup  of  sugar;  as  soon  ag  melted  pour 
into  the  cream  and  sugar,  cook  for  two  or  three  min- 
utes. Eemove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  it  begins 
to  cool.  Add  one  cup  of  chopped  marshmallows  and 
beat  until  creamy. 


'"'^'/^.  Can  fly  nv'f  CvHiinni  Crinl-Jes.  175 

Fondant  or  Candy  Icing. 

Melt  over  hot  water  chocolate  creams  ar  any  kind  of 
candy  made  from  fondant.  To  one  pound  add  one-half 
cnp  of  sweet  cream.  Stir  all  the  time  it  is  melting. 
Spread  between  and  over  cake. 

Golden  Icing. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  light.  Cook  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  sugar  with  two-thirds  cup  of  water 
until  it  hairs.  Pour  it  over  the  eggs  slowly,  beating 
all  the  while,  until  it  thickens  enough  to  spread. 
Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  orange  juice  and  a  little 
grated  orange  peel. 

Cream  Caramel. 

Three  cups  of  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
cream  or  rich  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  cook 
stirring  all  the  while  (as  it  burns  easily)  until  it  maKes 
a  soft  jelly  vrhen  tried  in  a  saucer.  This  receipt  is  used 
for  dipping  small  cakes,  covering  angel  food  and  can  be 
colored  to  suit  the  occasion;  is  also  used  for  dipping 
marshmallows,  fruit  balls,  and  so  forth. 

Caramel  Icing. 

Three  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-third 
cups  of  water.  Cook  until  it  drops  heavy  from  the 
spoon,     ilelt  one-third  cup  of  sugar  and  pour  into  the 


17G  Calie^  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles. 

above.  Cook  until  it  threads.  Pour  slowly  over  the 
whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  yeij  stiff.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  creamy,  beating  all  the  while.  Add  chop- 
ped toasted  almonds  to  a  part  of  the  icing  and  spread 
between  cakes.  Cover  over  the  cake  with  the  rest. 
Decorate  through  a  tube  and  garnish  with  Jonquils 
and  violets  made  from  decorative  icing. 

Prauline  Icing. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  three  egg^. 
Cook  two  cups  of  the  sugar  in  three-fourths  cup  of  water 
until  it  drops  heavy  from  the  spoon.  Melt  one-half 
remaining  cup  of  .sugar  and  pour  into  the  syrup.  Cook 
until  it  hairs,  pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs,  spread  beijween  and  cover  the  cake. 

PrmdiiM  Filling, 

Two  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
granulated,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoons 
of  maple  syrup,  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  milk 
and  sugar  together  until  it  boils,  add  the  maple  syrup, 
cook  until  it  creams  when  tried  in  saucer,  add  the  but- 
ter and  beat  until  cool. 

Maple  Syrup  Icing, 

'Boil  two  cups  of  thick  maple  syrup  until  it  hairs, 
pour  it  over  slowly,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
f'dd  two  or  three  drops  of  bitter  almond  and  one-half 


Calc,  Candy  and  Cidinarij  Crinldes. 

teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Set  the  bowl  of  icing  over 
boiling  water  and  beat  for  five  minutes  having  the 
water  boiling  all  the  while.  Eemove  and  continue  io 
beat  until  it  begins  to  cream  when  it  is  ready  to  spread. 

Seafoam  loing. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  a  rich  yellow  brown,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  water,  the  white  of  one  egg.  Cook  sugar 
and  water  together  until  it  hairs.  Pour  over  the 
white  of  the  egg  beaten  stiff.  Beat  until  creamy, 
spread  over  and  between  cake.  Chopped  nuts  can  be 
added  and  is  an  improvement. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Use  white  icing  No.  2  and  while  still  warm,  add 
one-fourth  of  -a  cake  of  chocolate.     Beat  until  creamy. 

Soft  Chocolate  Filling. 

Two  cupg  of  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  tvro-thirds  of  a  cake  of  Baker's 
Chocolate.  Mix  the  sugar  and  eggs  and  add  the  milk 
gradually.  Add  one  full  teaspoon  of  butter,  then  add 
chocolate  last.  Cook  over  hot  wa.ter  until  it  thickens. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Frosting. 

Three  -cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  wa- 
ter, one-half  cake  of  chocolate,  one  cup  of  butter,  one 


178  Cal-e^  Candy  and  CiiUnary  Crinldes. 

teaspoon  of  yanilla.  Grate  the  chocolate  and  mix  with 
the  sugar,  add  the  water  and  cook  until  it  threads. 
Pour  it  slowly  over  the  butter,  beating  all  the  while, 
add  vanilla  and  continue  to  beat  until  thick  enough  to 
spread.    One  cup  of  cream  can  be  used  instead  of  butter. 

Mocha  Frosting. 

Wash  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  creamy.  Add  one 
cup  of  cream  filling  made  of  one  cupful  of  milk,  one 
egg^  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  (scant),  one-fourth  cup- 
ful flour  (scant)  and  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Flavor 
with  one-fourth  cup  of  strong  black  coffee. 

Vienna  Chocolate  Icing. 

Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  pulverized  sugar,  beat  until  light,  add  one-half  cake 
or  one-fourth  pound  of  unsweetened  grated  chocolate 
and  one  tablespoon  of  black  coffee  and  one  tablespoon 
of  brandy,  beat  all  together  until  creamy  and  light 

Vienna  Vanilla  Icing. 

Cream  one  cup  of  butter  with  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  pulverized  sugar  and  o-ne-half  tablespoon  of  mars- 
chino  or  other  liquor  and  teaspoon  of  vanilla  until 
creamy  and  light.  Divide  into  two  portions,  mix  with 
one,  two  tablespoons  of  powdered  chocolate,  put  the  two 
portions  together  in  a  pastry  bag  with  fancy  tube  and 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlks.  179 

the  two  colors  blend  in  pressing  and  can  be  used  effec- 

tiveJy. 

Cream  Filling. 

Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  pow- 
dered sugar  together  until  very  light,  flavor  with 
rum,  sherry  or  any  extract  and  thin  with  cream  to  the 
consistency  to  spread. 

Almond  Filling  No.  1. 

^Vhip  one  cup  of  sour  cream  until  quite  stiff,  add 
one  cup  of  susfar,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  stir  in  one-half 
pound  of  blanched,  chopped,  baked  almonds. 

Almond  Filling  No.  2. 

Make  a  custard  of  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  cnp 
of  sugar,  one  egg  slightly  beaten,  one  tablespoon  of 
flour,  one-half  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  ground 
fine.  Cook  custard  until  quite  thick,  add  alm.onds  and 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

Fruit  Custard  Filling  No.  1. 

Make  a  custard  of  two  cups  of  milk,  one  tablespoon 
of  corn  starch,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  until  quite  thick;  re- 
move from  fire  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  cool,  then 
add  one  cup  of  fruits,  candied  pineapple  and  cherries, 
orange,  lem^on  or  grape  fruit  peel. 


180  Calcc^  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes. 

Fruit  Custard  Filling  No.  2. 

Cook  over  hot  water  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one-'half 
cup  of  butter,  when  blended,  add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs 
and  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon,  stirring  all  the  v/hile. 
Vv  h-en  it  begins  to  thicken  add  one  cup  each  of  chop- 
ped walnut  and  pecan  meats,  one^half  cup  of  cocoanut 
and  one  cup  of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped.  Flavor 
with  lemon  juice  or  sherry  wine. 

Fruit  Icing. 

Use  any  one  of  the  plain  white  icings  and  add  fruits 
and  nuts  and  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste.  Hickory  nuts, 
pecans,  almonds,  hazel  nuts,  pistachio  nuts  and  Eng- 
lish walnuts  are  all  used  singly  or  combined  with  each 
other  or  with  fruits.  Candled  pineapple,  cherries,  green 
gage  plums,  apricots  are  used  singly  or  combined  with 
each  other  and  wdth  nuts.  Crystallized  lemon,  orange, 
grape  fruit  peel,  and  citron  are  also  used  and  give  a 
delightful  flavor;  figs,  nuts  and  dates  ground  together 
and  mixed  into  a  soft  paste  with  a  custard  or  icing  is 
good. 

Sunshine  Filling. 

Sunshine  sauce  mixed  with  very-  stiff  whipped  cream. 
is  suitable  for  sponge  or  angel  food  cake.    See  sauces. 

Di/oinity  Icing. 

Three  full  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
of  glucose  or  corn  syrup,  whites  of  three  eggs.  Cook  two 


CaltC,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crlnlhs.  181 

Clips  of  sugar  and  'three-fourths  cup  of  water  together 
until  it  hairs.  Cook  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup 
of  water  and  two  spoons  o:f  glucose  together  until  it 
hairs.  Pour  the  first  mixture  over  the  stiffly  beateTi 
"whites  beating  constantly,  while  the  second  mixture  is 
cooking.  Then  pour  the  second  mixture  over,  beating 
constantly.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  when  it  begins  to 
cream  add  chopped  nuts  or  fruits  or  both  if  desired. 
Spread  between  cakes,  ice  on  top  with  plain  white 
icing.     Xuts  and  fruits  can  be  omitted  if  desired. 

Glaze  for  Covering  Cakes. 

Two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  four  tablespoons  of 
marsachino  or  other  juices,  two  tablespoons  of  warm 
water.  Stir  over  hot  water  until  warm,  not  hot,  spread 
on  cake.     Color  any  desired  coloring. 

Almond  Paste  to  Spread  on  Calces. 

Two  cups  of  ground  almonds,  two  and  one-half  cups 
of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  taespoon  of  vanilla.  Mix 
into  a  stiff  paste  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 


"Co  (Tombine  3cings  atib   jHlUnss 
>i{?ltb  (Take. 

{^%   ^^%   5^W  f^^ 

Plain  wliite  iciiig  is  suitable  to  be  used  with  any  cake 
and  can  be  combined  with  any  other  icing  or  filling. 

White  layer  cake  stacked  with  alternate  layers  of  fruit 
or  nut  cakes  and  put  together  with  white  icing  Xo.  1 
■and  covered  over  with  melted  chocolate  or  with  a  choco- 
late filling  is  attractive  to  look  at  and  good  to  the  taste. 

Chocolate  cake  mixture,  plain  or  with  fruits  and  nuts 
added,  filled  with  a  plain  white  icing  and  covered  with 
a  coating  of  melted  chocolate  is  popular. 

A  layer  of  plain  white  and  one  of  nut  cake  filled  with 
seafoam  icing.  Fill  a  plain  white  cake  with  fruit  cus- 
tard No.  2. 

Yellow  sponge  cake  with  golden  or  marshmallow 
filling. 

Angel  food  with  cream  caramel  filling. 

Angel  food  or  yellow  sponge  with  sunshine  filling,  or 
use  both  angel  and  sponge  alternating  the  layers. 

Angel  or  sponge  filled  with  either  of  the  sour  cream 
fillings,  or  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream. 

182 


Cal'C,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes.  183 

Sponge  cake  baked  in  round  mould  with  stem,  iced 
over  witli  white  or  goklen  icing  and  the  center  filled 
with  sunshine  sauce  with  whipped  cream  added,  and  th<; 
sidee  decorated  through  a  tube  with  whipped  cream. 

Alternate  layers  of  plain  white  cake  and  yellow  sponge 
with  an  almond  cream  filling.  Orange  cake  with  a  layer 
of  white  icing  and  then  a  yellow  one.  Cover  over  top 
and  sides  with  white  and  then  yellow  or  the  order  of 
colors  reversed. 


"W 


CHAPTER  X. 

Candy  and  Confections. 


CHAPTER   X. 


Candy. 


Useful  Tools  for  Making  Can- 
dy. 

Important  Things  to  Know 
and  Remember  in  Making 
Candy. 

Starcli    Boxes. 

Chocolate   Coating. 

Directions  for  Making  Candy. 

Fondant. 

Suggestions  in  Coloring,  Fla- 
voring and  Shaping  Bon- 
bons. 

How  to  Dip  in   Fondant. 

Fondant  for  Minits. 

Jlint   Drops. 

Arabian  Fondant. 

Plain    White   Candy. 

Cream   Candy    No.   1. 

Cream  Candy  No.  2. 

Ornamental    Pulled    Candy. 

Marshmallow   Fudge   No.   1. 

Marshraallow   Fudge   No.   2. 

Marshmallow   Fudge  No.   3. 

Seafoam    Fudge. 

College  Fudge. 

Chocolate  Fudge  with  Fruit. 

Cocoa    Fudge. 

Oriental    Fudge. 

Russian  Fudge. 

Divinity  No.  1, 

Divinity  No.  2. 

Cream   Nut  Candy. 

Seafoam   Cream. 

Nougat    Loaf. 

Fruit  Nougat. 

Nougatines. 

Praulines  No.  1. 

Praulines  No.  2. 


New  Orleans  Praulines. 

Patience. 

Patience  Nougat. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  1. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  2. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  3. 

Cream    Caramels    No.    4. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  5. 

Chocolate    Caramels    No.    1. 

Chocolate  Caramels  No.  2. 

Chocolate  Drops. 

Cocoanut    Caramels. 

Candy    Pudding    No.   1. 

Candy  Pudding  No.  2. 

Cracker  Jack. 

Hard   Nut  Candy. 

Glace  Nuts  and  Fruit. 

Woodland   Delights. 

Peanut   Nougat. 

Nougat  Wafers. 

Nougat. 

Nougat  for  Moulding. 

Sugared   Almonds. 

Burnt   Almonds. 

Almond  Paste  for  Moulding. 

Marshmallows   No.   1. 

Marshmallows    No.    2. 

Marshmallow    Mints. 

•Caramel   Marshmallows. 

Marshmallow  Baskets  No.  1. 

Pigs  in   Blankets. 

Pome-de-Terres. 

Fruit  Paste. 

Fruit  Puffs. 

Decorative    Mints. 

Stuffed  Dates  and  Figs. 

Crytallized  Fruit  Peel. 

Fruit  Coloring. 


(tanb'2  anb  (Tonfections. 

^%  ^v  ^5*  <^^ 

In  makix,^'  candy  the  most  important  thing  is  to 
know  just  when  it  is  cooked  to  the  proper  stage.  This 
can  he  clone  to  the  exaot  degree  by  the  use  of  a  su- 
gar thermometer.  There  are  a  number  of  terms  used 
by  confectioners  to  express  ithe  degree  of  cooking  such 
as  small  and  large  thread,  the  blow,  the  feather,  and  so 
forth,  but  only  three  degrees  are  necessar}'  in  making  all 
candies. 

Soft  ball  236-238;  hard  ball  246-248;  crack  290-310. 

Caramel  is  when  it  has  cooked  until  it  is  quite  brown 
and  recfisters  345-350.  A  little  experience  with  the 
use  of  the  thermometer  will  enable  one  to  determine 
to  the  exact  degree  the  candy  is  to  be  cooked.  Set  the 
thermom.eter  into  the  boiling  candy  and  after  it  begins 
to  boil  in  thick  bubbles,  watch  it  closely  and  when  it 
has  reached  the  proper  degree,  remove  the  candy  at 
once  and  put  the  thermometer  in  hot  water — wash  well 
and  hang  ready  for  the  next  using. 

Useful  Tools  for  Making  C(mdy. 

A  granite  or  porcelain  kettle  or  saucepan  is  the  best 
utensil  for  cooking  candy  unless  a  small  copper  kettle 

187 


ISS  Cale,  Candy  and  CuJinanj  Crinklrs. 

can  be  found,  but  they  are  seldom  made  in  small  sizes. 

A  wooden  spoon  is  best  (to  stir  the  candy  with  as 
the  handle  does  not  get  hot  when  left  in  the  boiling 
sj^rup. 

A  thermometer  is  useful  but  not  necessary,  it  gives 
the  exact  degree  of  cooking  and  takes  away  the  un- 
certainity  of  knowing  jusit  when  it  is  cooked  enough. 

A  ma.rble  slab  for  cooling,  cools  quickly,  is  smooth 
and  easily  cleaned  and  wdiile  not  necessary  is  very  de- 
sirable. 

A  fondant  kneader  which  is  a  broad  piece  of  metal 
much  like  a  wall  paper  scraper,  has  a  wooden  handle 
and  facilitates  the  work.  A  wooden  paddle  is  a  good 
substitute.  A  double  boiler  fo'r  melting  fondant  and 
chocolate  and  for  dipping  bonbons  is  ne•cessar}^ 

A  funnel  shaped  'tin  utensil  with  small  opening  at 
end  with  a  round  'wooden  stick  to  fit  the  opening  is  a 
great  convenience  for  dropping  fondant  in  shapes  in 
starch  boxes  and  for  shaping  mints,  and  are  called  fon- 
dant droppers. 

An  iron  hook  screwed  into  the  wall  at  a  convenient 
distance  for  pulling  candy  .  and  a  pair  of  buckskin 
gloves  facilitates  the  pulling  and  preserves  the  hands, 
especially  when  candy  is  cooked  to  a  very  high  degree. 

Iron  bars  three-fourths  of  an  inch  square  and  eigh- 
teen or  twenty  inches  long,  placed  on  a  marble  slab 
for  confining  caramels  is  a  great  help,  but  square  tin 
or  granite  pans  are  used  successfully. 

Lipping  wire  is  a  small  'tool  for  dipping  bonbons, 


Cal-e,  Candij  and  Culinary  Crinld'es.  189 

fruits^  and  so  forth,  in  fondant  and  can  be  boiiglit  at 
confectioners  supply  lioiises  and  is  a  necessary  article. 

A  small  pair  of  scales  for  weighing  sugar  and 
glucose. 

A  sharp,  strong  pair  of  scissors  for  cutting  pulled 
candy  and  a  heavy  strong  sharp  knife  for  cutting  cara- 
mels. 

Waxed  paper  is  very  convenient  and  for  some  can- 
dies necessary;  keep  a  supply  on  hand  as  it  is  useful 
in  other  cooking.  Oiled  paper  for  wrapping  caramels 
and  other  candies  can  be  bought,  cut  ready  for  wrap- 
ping or  bought  in  sheets  and  folded  and  cut  to  suit 
the  size  of  candy. 

Important  Things  to  Ernow  and  Be  member  in  Making 
Candy. 

In  pulling  candy  where  glcveg  are  used,  grease  them 
lightly  at  first  and  duet  with  flour  or  corn  starch,  if 
gloves  are  not  used,  dip  the  hands  now  and  then  in 
cold  water. 

Always  grease  the  slab  or  dish  for  fondant  or  pulled 
candies  and  oil  is  much  better  than  butter,  sprinkle 
fondant  over  with  a  little  water  which  makes  it  less 
liable  to  grain. 

White  oil  cloth  stretched  tight  over  a  thin  board, 
which  can  be  moved  easily  is  a  nice  arrangement  for 
placing  candies  dipped  in  chocolate. 

Xuts  to  be  cracked  can  much  more  easily  be  re- 
moved from   the   shell   without   breakinor  if  the^*   are 


190  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinanj  Crinkles. 

soaked  first  in  cold  water  for  several  hours.  Crack 
pecans  on  the  side  that  doeis  not  have  the  vein.  When 
nuts  are  to  be  broken  and  not  chopped  fine,  use 
a  large  knife,  put  nuts  on  a  table  or  flat  surface, 
rest  the  point  of  the  knife  on  table  and  with  left 
hand  raise  the  handle  up  and  down  with  the  right, 
chopping  a  few  at  a  time.  Wooden  bowls  with  chop- 
per is  beat  where  nuts  are  wanted  to  be  chopped  very 
fine. 

In  cooking  candy  with  cream  or  milk,  have  the  kettle 
large  enough  to  allow  for  boiling  up. 

When  receipts  call  for  weights  and  no  scales  aT9 
convenient,  remember  two  cups  of  sugar  is  one  pound 
and  two  cups  of  glucose  is  one  and  one-half  pounds. 
The  proportion  of  water  for  sugar  is  about  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  water  to  two  cups  of  sugar. 

In  dipping  chocolate  use  plenty  of  chocolate  and 
have  it  almost  cool  before  dipping. 

In  making  candy  where  cream  is  used,  heat  quickly 
.as  long  slow  cooking  is  apt  to  make  the  candy  curdle. 

Always  istir  candy  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

If  fondant  should  grain  it  can  have  a  little  water  ad- 
ded and  cooked  over,  but  is  never  as  nice.  It  is  better 
to  use  it  for  a  foundation  in  making  other  candies. 

Sta/rch  Boxes. 

Starch  boxes  can  be  made  of  wood,  tin  or  granite, 
and  in  any  size.  Granite  pans  t^^elve  or  fourteen 
inches    square    and   one    to    one    and    one-half   inches 


Cal'C,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes.  191 

deep  make  good  boxes.  Sift  them  full  of  corn  starch. 
and  smooth  lightly  over  the  top.  Moulds  of  different 
shapes  and  sizes  can  be  made  or  bought,  and  when 
iglued  to  a  narrow  thin  strip  of  wood  or  paste  board 
an  inch  or  more  apart,  heavy  indentations  can  easily 
be  made  by  pressing  the  moulds  lightly  iruto  the  starch. 
Have  the  strip  a  little  longer  than  the  box  so  the 
ends  will  extend  beyond  either  side;  fill  the  box  with 
indentations.  Melt  the  fondant,  put  it  into  the  dipper 
having  a  small  round  stick  to  aid  in  dropping  the 
fondant  into  the  moulds  and  to  prevent  the  fondant 
running  too  fast. 

^loulds  can  easily  be  made  by  cutting  potatoes,  car- 
rots or  turnips  into  the  shapes  desired  and  pressing 
them  into  the  starch,  remove  and  fill  with  plaster  of 
Paris  mixed  t^vith  water  to  a  stiff  paste.  "WTien  these 
harden  they  can  be  removed  and  glued  to  (the  strips 
of  wood  and  used  when  needed. 

Chocolate  Coating. 

Use  chocolate  made  for  this  purpose.  It  comes  in 
the  bitter  and  sweet.  In  order  to  have  the 
chocolate  glossy  and  keep  its  gloss,  there  must  be 
plent}'  chocolate  to  work  with.  Put  a  pound  in  a 
double  boiler  and  melt  with  as  little  heat  as  possible. 
Stir  all  the  time  until  melted.  Do  not  allow  any 
water  to  boil  into  it  as  it  makes  the  chocolate  dull. 
Pour  on  a  platter  or  marble  slab  and  work  with  tlie 
hands,  until  it  begins  to  cool.     Drop  the  center  into 


192  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinanj  CrinUcs, 

the  chocolate.  Coat  it  well  by  turning  it  over  and  over. 
Take  up  between  the  (thumb  a^d  finger  and  rub  oi! 
any  surplus  chocolate  there  is,  or  in  other  words,  make 
them  smooth  and  evenly  coated.  Place  on  an  oiled 
slab  or  boards  covered  with  oil  cloth.  Stretch  and  tack 
the  oil  cloth  on  well.  Place  the  drops  on  and 
set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  The  chocolate  ithat 
hardens  on  the  platter  and  becomes  too  stiff  to  use 
forms  a  foundation  on  which  to  pour  more  chocolate 
and  when  the  coating  is  all  done,  take  all  of  the  cho- 
colate left,  return  to  <the  double  boiler  and  save  for 
the  next  coating.  There  is  no  waste  whatever  to  it, 
but  economy  in  using  a  large  quantity  as  the  work 
can  be  done  so  m.uch  more  easily  and  quickly. 

Directions  for  Mahing  Candy. 

In  receipt  where  the  sugar  is  to  be  mixed  with  wa- 
ter use  cold  water.  Put  over  a  hot  5.re  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

Wash  the  grains  from  the  sides  of  the  kettle  witli  a 
gmall  brush,  dipped  in  water,  cover  over  until  it  be- 
gins to  boil,  as  the  steam  encased  will  help  dissolve 
the  sugar  that  clings  to  the  sides  of  kettle.  Take  off 
the  top  and  cook  rapidly.  Candy  is  less  liable  to  grain 
if  cooked  quickly.  This  applies  to  all  candies,  but 
especially  when  water  only  is  used  in  mixing  In  mak- 
ing caramels  or  candies  where  butter,  milk,  cream  or 
molasses  are  used  the  cooking  cannot  be  done  quite  so 
rapidly,  as  too  much  heat  will  'be  apt  to  scorch  or  burn. 


Cal'c,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinldes.  193 

They  should  be  stirred  gently  during  the  whole  process 
of  cooking  to  prevent  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle. 

Fondant. 

As  fondant  keeps  well  packed  in  stone  jars  and  is 
much  easier  to  make  when  made  in  large  quantities, 
^he  formula  will  be  given  so  it  can  be  divided  when 
a  small  quantity  is  wanteds  and  doubled,  where  a 
very  large  batch  is  desired.  Mix  itogether  five  cups  of 
granulated  sugar^  two  cups  of  cold  vv^ater,  put  on  the 
fctove  and  stir  constantly  until  thoroughly  dissolved. 
Wash  down  the  sides  of  the  kettle  with  a  small  pastry 
brush  dipped  in  hot  water,  keep  the  sides  of  the  kettle 
cleaned  of  any  grains  of  sugar  that  form.  Cover  over 
and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  remove  the  cover  and  add 
one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cream  'of  tartar.  Cook  to  the 
soft  ball  stage.  If  a  thermometer  is  used,  cook  to  238. 
Pour  on  marble,  slightly  oiled,  use  olive  oil,  not  but^ 
ter.  When  cool,  begin  to  work  from  the  outer  edge 
toward  the  center,  using  the  fondant  kneader.  If  a 
platter  is  used,  make  a  small  quantity,  cool  as  quickly 
as  possible  and  work  with  a  wooden  spoon.  When  it 
begins  to  cream,  'knead  v\'ell  until  smooth.  Put  in  a 
bowl  or  stone  jar.  Cover  ever  with  a  damp  cloth  and 
set  in  a  cool  place.  It  is  better  to  stand  a  day  or  two 
before  using.  A  little  cold  water  sprinkled  over  the 
top  helps  to  keep  the  fondant  from  graining.  It  should 
be  a  mass  of  pure  white  cream,  looking  like  lard.    It 


19-i  Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinUes. 

should  be  so  firm  you  can  cut  it  with  a  knife,  and 
should  melt  in  the  mouth,  leaving  absolutely  no  grain. 
If  there  is  a  grain,  it  has  either  been  stirred  while 
boiling,  shaken  while  cooking,  or  stirred  before  it  was 
cool  enough.  This  candy  can  be  made  into  balls  and 
Tolled  in  chopped  nuts,  or  covered  with  chocolate,  nuts 
worked  into  it  and  cut  in  squares;  it  can  be  colored 
with  different  fruit  coloring;  cinnamon  is  used  to  roll 
oblong  pieces  making  potatoes.  Eoll  in  cocoanut  for 
cocoanut  balls.  There  are  many  ways  of  using  fond- 
ant. It  is  the  foundation  of  all  French  candies.  Candy 
pudding  can  be  made  by  adding  fruits  and  nuts  and 
making  into  shapes. 

Suggestions  in   Coloring,  Flavoring  and  Shaping 
Bonbons. 

Fondant  can  ibe  ooloied  pink,  green,  yellow,  violet  or 
any  color  desired,  flavoring  added  to  suit  the  color  or 
one's  taste,  finiits  and  nuts  added  and  shaped  with  the 
hands,  or  the  fondant  melted  and  poured  from  a  dropper 
into  starch  boxes  and  made  into  fancy  shapes.  If  'the 
bonbons  are  colored  pink,  use  rose  as  a  flavor,  if  green 
use  pistachio,  almond  or  mint,  if  lavender  use  violet  or 
vanilla,  use  orange  or  lemon  extract  for  the  yellow ;  these 
are  only  suggestions,  one's  own  taste  in>ust  he  consulted 
as  to  color,  flavor  and  shape. 

Chopped  candied  fruits,  cherries,  pineapple,  green- 
gage pluins  and  apric-ots  are  all  used  to  mix  with  bon- 
bons, also  candied'  orange,  lemon  and  grape  fruit  peel. 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Criiikles.  195 

Cr}'stallized  vioilets  and'  rose  leaves  make  an  effective 
garnish  as  do  pistachio  nuts,  ahnouds,  pecans,  English 
walnuts  and  cocoanut. 

Figs,  dates  and  nuts  ground  together,  made  into 
eliape,  and  dipped  in  fondant  make  a  delicious  confec- 
tion, as  does  divinity,  fudges,  caramels  or  nougats. 

Almonds  blanched  and'  toasted.,  dipped  first  in 
fondant  and  then  chocolate  coated  are  good.  Any  of  the 
bonhons  can  be  twice  dipped,  first  in  fondant  or  cream 
■caramel  and  then  chocolate  coated. 

How  to  Dip  in  Fondant 

Put  the  fondant  in  a  double  boiler  and  set  over  hot 
-v^^ater,  add  a  small  quantity  of  water  if  too  stiff. 
Stir  now  and  then,  when  it  melts,  throw  in  a 
bonbon  and  lift  out  wath  the  wire  used  for  the  p'ur- 
pose.  Dry  on  heavy  waxed  paper.  Continue  this  till 
all  are  dipped.  If  the  fondant  should  get  cool  and  too 
stiff  put  again  over  hot  water.  This  can  be  colored 
pink,  green  or  any  desired  color.  Melt  with  a  small  de- 
gree of  heat. 

Fondant  for  Mints. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  two  drops  of 
acetic  acid,  stir  until  dissolved.  Cook  to  the  soft 
ball  stage.  Pour  on  slab  which  has  been  wet  with  cold 
water.  \Yhen  cool  work  with  spatula  until  it  creams. 
Melt  over  hot  water,  add  mint  essence  and  drop  on 
waxed  paper. 


196  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cnlinary  Crmldes. 

Mint  Drops. 

Boil  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  of  water  for  eight 
minutes  .  Add  one-fourtli  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 
^nd  two  drops  of  mint  essence  or  oil  of  peppermint. 
Put  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  beat  until  creamy.  Drop 
with  a  spoon  on  oiled  slab.  Color  to  suit  taste  and  add 
grated  cocoanut  if  desired. 

Arabian  Fondant 

Pour  one-half  cup  of  water  over  two  cups  of  sugar, 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  After  it 
starts  to  boil^  boil  six  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
pour  on  oiled  slab  or  platiter.  When  slightly  cooled, 
.stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  creamy  and  white,  dust 
thick  with  confectioners  sugar  and  knead  until  smooth ; 
put  in  stone  jar.  Cover  over  and  ripen  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Make  into  creams  adding  nuts,  dates,  fruits 
and  fig8. 

PJai7i  White  Candy. 

Pour  over  three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pin  c 
of  water,  put  on  the  stove  and  stir  until  dissoslved; 
add  a  pinch  of  soda,  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  a 
teaspoon  of  butter;  eoK)k  'Over  a  quick  fire.  Have  a 
itumbler  of  cold  water,  and  when  the  candy  begins  to 
cook  in  large  bubbles,  put  a  teaspoon  of  it  in  the  wa- 
ter, and  if  it  becomes  hard  and  cracks  on  the  side  of 
tumbler,  pour  at  once  on  a  greased  slab  or  flat  china 


Calic^  Candy  and  Culinary  Cnnldes.  197 

dish.  Vriieii  it  begins  to  harden  so  that  it  makes  a  dent 
when  pressed  by  the  finger,  gather  it  all  in  a  lump  and 
pull  unitil  it  gets  light  and  creamy;  pull  the  flavoring 
into  it  and  make  it  into  long,  thin  strips  and  cut  into 
one  or  two  inche  pieces.  By  the  use  -of  fruit  coloring, 
tills  candy  can  be  made  any  desired  color  by  putting  in 
the  coloring  after  the  candy  has  been  pulled  white. 
Continue  to  pull  until  the  coloring  hasi  been  uniform- 
ly mixed  through. 

When  cold  and  firm  put  in  a  tin  box  and  cover  tight 
and  it  will  become  creamy  and  melting.  This  candy 
can  be  flavored  with  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  pepper- 
mint. Pulled  into  long  slender  pieces  and  cut  into 
chips,  and  colored  with  delicate  green,  pink  and  laven- 
der, and  is  "v^ry  attractive. 

Cream  Candy  No.  1. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one  full  tea- 
spoon of  butter,  one  slightly  rounding  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder;  cook  as  plain  white  candy  and  pull  un- 
til light,  flavor  and  cut  in  pieces. 

Cream  Candy  No.  2. 

Five  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  until  diss'olved,  boil  and  skim 
well.  Cook  until  it  cracks  on  the  side  of  a  glass  when 
tried  in  ice  water.  Just  before  removins:  from  the 
stove,  add  one  cup  of  cream,  pouring  in  very  slowly 


198  €ake.  Candy  and  CtiUnary  CrMles. 

€0  that  the  boiling  is  not  distuAed.  Continue  to  cook 
until  it  cracks  hard  on  the  side  of  glass.  Pour  on  an  oiled 
^lab.  When  cool  pull  and  flavor.  Cut  in  pieces  and 
wrap  in  oiled  paper. 

Ornamental  Pulled  Candy. 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  water.  Cook  over  a  hot  fire 
very  quickly  until  it  pops,  when  poured  in  a  glass  of 
ice  water.  Pour  in  ungreased  plates,  let  stand  a  few 
minuses,  then  pour  on  to  a  marble  slab.  Pull  while 
quite  hot  over  the  fire  until  it  is  hard  and  begins  to 
break.  Pull  into  as  long  and  thin  strips  as  possible 
and  coil  and  .shape  to  suit  the  taste.  If  coloring  is 
used,  pour  in  just  before  removing  from  the  fire.  This 
candy  can  be  used  for  a  garnish  or  center  piece  and  is 
very  ornamental. 

MarshmaJlow  Fudge  No.  2. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  four  tablespoons  of  grated 
ehocolat-e.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball,  add  fifteen 
or  twenty  marshmallows,  stir  hard  umtil  melted,  pour 
into  buttered  tins  and  cut  when  cold. 

Marshmallow  Fudge  No,  1. 

Two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream, 

one-half  pound  of  chocolate,  one  tablespoon  of  butter. 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  CrinUes.  199 

one-half  pound  of  pecans,  one-lialf  pound  of  marsh- 
mallows.  Cook  sugar  ^cream  and  chocolate  together 
until  soft  ball.  Cut  marshmallows  into  pieces  and 
put  on  a  dish  and  spread  with  nuts  on  top.  Add  but- 
ter to  candy  and  stir  until  thick.  Pour  over  nuts  and 
m^arshmallows  while  it  is  warm  enough  to  melt  marsh- 
mallows. 

MarshmaUow  Fudge  No.  3. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  rich  milk 
or  cream,  heat  together  and  add  two  squares  of  Baker's 
chocolate  and  boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  add 
one  full  teaspoon  of  buttCT  and  just  before  it  is  doue, 
begin  to  add  marshmallows  beating  the  mixture  well, 
continue  to  add  marshmallows,  after  the  fudge  is  done, 
until  you  have  added  one-half  pound.  Pour  in  greased 
tins,  cool  and  cut  in  squares. 

Seafoam  Fudge, 

Three  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Boil  until  soft  ball 
stage,  pour  over  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  flavor 
and  add  nuts  when  it  begins  to  cool.     Cut  in  squares. 

College  Fudge, 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
fourth  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  cream. 
Put  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  dissolved,  then  add  t 


200  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  CrinMes. 

tlie  mixture  one-fourtli  of  a  cup  of  melited'  butter, 
cook  after  it  begins  to  boil  tvvo  or  three  minutes,  stirr- 
ing all  the  while.  Then  add  two  squares  of  Baker's 
unsweetened  chocolate  gratied.  Boil  five  minutes  long- 
er, stirring  rapidly  at  first  and  afterwards  more  slow- 
ly, remove  from  the  fire,  add  one  (teaspoon  of  vanilla 
and  continue  to  stir  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pans  and  set  in  a  cool  place.     Mark  in  squares. 

Chocolate  Fudge  With  Fruit. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  each  of  molasses, 
milk  and  butter,  mix  all  together  and  boil  seven  min- 
utes. Add  one-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate  and  boil 
seven  minutes  longer.  Add  two  tablespoons  each  of 
chopped  figs  and  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  English  wal- 
nuts and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  pouT  in  greased  pans. 

Cocoa  Fudge. 

Cook  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  full 
teaspoon  of  butter  and  two  heaping  tablespoons  of 
cocoa  together,  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball,  add  one  cup 
of  grated  cocoanut  and  cook  two  minutes.  Pour  in 
greased  pans,  cut  in  squares  when  cool. 

Oriental  Fudge. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-fourth 
cup  of  strained  honey.  Wliite  of  one  Qgg)  boil  the 
milk  and  sugar  two  minutes;  add  honey  and  boil  to 


Calce,  Candy  and  Cidinary  CrinMes.  201 

soft  ball  'Scage;  pour  one-half  of  it  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Return  the  other  half,  and 
boil  to  hard  ball  stage.  Pour  into  first  mixture  and 
beat  until  it  stiffins,  pour  in  shallow  pans  and  cut  in 
cubes.    Fruits  and  nuts  can  be  added. 

Russian  Fudge. 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cold  water, 
one  box  of  gelatine,  one-half  cup  of  hot  water.  Juice 
and  rind  of  one  orange,  juice  only  of  one  lemon.  Tvv^o 
tablespoons  of  whiskey,  one-half  pound  of  blanched 
chopped  almonds  and  walnuts.  Soak  gelatine  in  coid 
Vi'ater,  dissolve  in  hot,  add  sugar  and  cook  ten  minutes 
add  orange  and  lemon  juice  and  cook  ten  minutes, 
add  nuts  and  whiskey  and  boil  up  once.  Mould  in 
pans.  Cut  in  squares  and  dust  over  with  pulverized 
sugaio 

Divinity  No.  1. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
Corn  syrup,  and  one-half  cup  of  water.  Boil  until 
brittle.  Pour  slowly  into  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
egg^,  l^eat  well.  "Wlien  it  begins  to  stiiien  add  one-half 
cup  of  mits,  pour  into  pans  and  cut  in  squares. 

Divinity  No.  2. 

Three  cups  of  sugar  ,two- thirds  cup  of  water,  one 
cup  of  thick  table  syrup.     Cook  until  it  hairs-    In  an- 


202  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinldes. 

other  ves&el  cook  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of 
water  to  hard  ball  stage.  Add  the  first  mixture  gradu- 
ally to  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff  then  add 
the  second  and  beat  until  cold. 

Cream  Nut  Candy. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one-half  cup 
of  com  syrup.  Cook  until  it  hairs  and  then  pour 
over  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaften  stiff.  Flavor  and 
add  one  cup  of  shelled  almoDds.  When  cold,  cut  iir 
fiquareis. 

Seafoam  Cream. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  water  to  moisten, 
white  of  one  egg.    Proceed  as  above  receipt. 

Nougat  Loaf. 

Syrup  N'o.  1,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  syrup  Xo.  2,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  three  table- 
spoons of  glucose.  Whites  of  three  eggs.  Cook  syrup 
No.  1  urutil  it  threads  and  pour  on  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Cook  syrup  No.  2  until  it  is  brittle  when 
tried  in  cold  water.  Add  to  mixture  No.  1.  When  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  add  nuts  and  fruits,  pour  in  greased 
pans  or  pans  lined  with  oiled  paper. 


Cal'C,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinkles.  203 

Fruit  Nougat. 

Moisten  fo-ur  cups  of  sugar  with  one  tablespoon  of 
vinegar  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  and  cook  un- 
til almost  hard  but  not  brittle.  Beat  well  and  add  one 
cup  €ac4i  of  citron,  figs,  raisins  and  candied  orange  peel 
and  nuts  if  desired.  Pour  on  a  wet  cloth  and  roll  up 
like  a  sponge  roll  and  cut  in  slices  when  cold  or  mould 
in  cans  or  fancy  moulds,  and  slice. 

Nougatines, 

Melit  two  cups  of  sugar,  remove  from  fire  and  add 
a  teaspoon  of  butter,  one-fourth  teaspo'on  of  sai-,  a 
little  lemon  juice,  three-fourths  pound  of  ground  al- 
monds. Stir  well,  pour  out,  flatten^  cut  in  pieces  and 
cover  with  chocolate. 

PrauUnes  No,  1. 

One  and  seven-eighths  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one 
cup  of  maple  syrup,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  two  cups 
of  hickory  nuts  or  pecans.  Cook  sugar,  maple  and 
cream  together  until  makes  a  soft  jelly  when  tried  in 
saucer.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  nuts. 
Shape  in  balls. 

PrauUnes  No.  %. 

Three  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet 

milk.     Put  on  the  stove  together  and  when  it  boils, 


204  Oake,  Candy  and  Cnlinary  Crinkles. 

add  three  tablespoons  of  maple  syrup  and  co'ok  ito  the 
eoft  ball  stage.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire, 
add  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  nuts, 
beat  well  or  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  nuts  just 
before  it  creams.  Shape  in  balls  and  roll  in  nuts  or 
not  (to  suit  the  taste.  Or  you  can  pour  in  pans  and 
cut  in  squares. 

I^ew  Orleans  PrauUnes, 

Cook  three  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one  cup  of 
milk  and  one  teaspoon  of  butter  together  until  it 
creams  when  tried  in  a  saucer.  Add  all  the  pecans, 
the  candy  will  take.  Pour  in  small  rounds  on  oiled 
Blab. 

Patience, 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two  cups  of  rich 
milk,  one  tablespoon  of  buitter,  one  cup  of  nuts  or 
more  if  desired.  Melt  one  cup  of  sugar,  stir  into  it 
one  cup  of  milk.  Wlien  dissolved  put  in  the  rest  of 
sugar  and  milk.  Cook  until  it  becomes  creamy  when 
tried  in  a  saucer.  Eemove  from  the  fire,  cool,  beat 
well  and  pour  in  a  gi'eased  pan.    Cut  in  squares. 

Patience  Nougat, 

Uise  (the  above  receipt,  leaving  out  the  nuts.  Pour 
it  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  press 
through  a  tube  into  fancy  shapes. 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinarij  CrinWes.  205 

Cream  Caramels  No.  1. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Cook  until  it  is  thick,  beat  until  creamy, 
pour  in  a  greased  pan,  cut  in  squares. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  2. 

Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  cream,  one  (tablespoon  of  butter,  two  tablespoons 
of  flour.  Cream  the  butter  and  Hour  together,  then 
mix  in  the  'other  ingredients.  Cook  until  it  makes  a 
soft  ball,  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour  in  pans  and 
cut  in  squares. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  3. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  cream,  two  and  one-half 
cups  of  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  one  tablespoon  or 
more  of  burnt  .sugar.  Cook  the  sugar,  milk  and  cream 
until  quite  thick.  Try  in  a  saucer  and  if  when  cool 
it  becomes  quite  creamy,  put  in  the  flavoring  and  pour 
on  a  platter  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  \York  with 
a  spatula  until  it  begins  to  cream,  pour  on  a  greased 
slab  and  confine  with  bars. 

Or  pour  in  deep  pans,  cut  in  squares  or  shape  in  balls 
and  roll  in  chopped  nuts. 

Cream  Caramel  No.  4. 
Four  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  glucose  and  four  cups 


206  Cake,  Candy  and  Culinary  Crinlcles. 

of  cream;  put  sugar,  glucose  and  two  cups  of  cream 
on  ithe  fire  and  stir  constantly,  cook  until  when 
dropped  in  cold  water  it  can  be  taken  between  the 
fingers  and  shaped  into  a  soft  ball,  then  add  one  cup 
of  cream  gradually  as  not  to  disturb  the  boiling.  Cook 
to  the  same  consistency,  then  add  remaining  cream 
and  cook  until  it  forms  a  good  firm  ball  or  registers 
246-248.  Flavor,  and  if  nuts  are  to  he  used  add  after 
it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  stir  them  in  well  and  pour  in 
greased  pans  or  if  bars  are  used  arrange  on  slab  and 
fit  them  to  the  size  of  the  batch  of  candy.  When 
quite  cool  remove  from  pans  or  remove  the  bars  and 
cut  with  a  sharp  knife.  Wrap  and  put  in  tin  boxes ;  in 
cutting  caramels  never  push  (the  knife  hard,  but  cut 
with  a  sliding  movement,  pressing  through  the  batch 
and  from  you  with  the  same  movement,  this  gives  a 
clean  cut  edge.  In  warm  or  diamp  weather  they  will 
lose  their  shape  unless  they  are  wrapped. 

Cream  Caramels  No.  5. 

Four  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  cream,  one  scant 
tablespoon  of  glucose,  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar;  cook 
all  together,  stirring  rapidly  at  first  and  afterwards 
more  slowly  during  tthe  whole  process  of  cooking.  Cook 
until  it  makes  a  rather  firm  ball  when  tried  in  water 
or  if  thermometer  is  used  cook  to  240.  Pour  on  slab. 
Do  not  grease  the  slab  or  dish,  but  moisten  with  cold 
water.    When  lukewarm,  add  flavoring  and  work  as  for 


Cal'C,  Candy  and  CuUnarij  Crinlcles.  207 

fondant.  When  it  gets  stiff  from  working^  cover  over 
with  a  wet  cloth  and  put  a  dry  one  on  top  of  the  wet,  let 
stand  several  hours  or  longer.  This  candy  can  be  shap- 
ed for  caramels  or  in  any  wiay  as  it  is  quite  pliable 
and  soft. 

Line  a  pan  with  waxed  paper  and  press  the  candy 
into  it,  cover  over  with  paper,  let  stand  some  hours 
and  cut  into  caramels.  Make  some  into  balls  and  ob- 
longs, roll  in  cinnamon  or  dip  in  chocolate.  Fruits 
and  nuts  can  be  add  andi  made  into  bonbons  and 
dipped  or  not  m  fondant.  Candy  pudding  or  rolls  are 
made  from  this  candy  by  working  in  fruits  and  nuts 
and  pressing  into  moulds  or  shaping  with  the  hands 
into  a  long  round  two  or  three  inches  thick  and  cover- 
ing with  cinnamon  or  chocolate,  cutting  in  slices  when 
needed.  In  boxing  candy  pudding  always  wrap  in 
oiled  paper  as  it  keeps  fresh  much  longer  and  prevents 
the  other  candies  in  the  box  from  mashing  it  and 
spoiling  the  shape. 

In  making  caramels  two  kinds  can  be  moulded  to- 
gether. Make  batches  at  the  same  time  in  the  same 
quantity  and  pour  one  on  top  of  the  other ;  one  kind  of 
nuts  and  flavorings  added  to  one  and  a  different  kind  to 
the  other.  M.arshmallow  mixture  is  sometimes  put 
between  tv/o  layers.    This  is  pretty  and  very  good. 

Chocolate  Caramels  No.  1. 

One  cup  each  of  white  -and  brown  sugar,  one-half 
cup   of  molasses,   one  tablespoon  of  glucose,   one   cup 


208  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJdes. 

of  milk,  one  cup  of  grated  chocolate.  Cook  until  it 
hardens  when  tried  in  water.  Pour  in  greased  pans; 
cut  when  cold  in  squares. 

CJiocoIate  Caramels  No.  2. 

Use  receipt  for  cream  caramels  Xo.  4  and  add  just 
after  pouring  in  the  last  cream  one-half  cake  of  Baker's 
unsweetened  chocolate  and  cook  a  degree  or  two  lower 
than  vanilla  caramels.    Nuits  can  abo  be  added  to  these. 

Chocolate  Drops. 

Cook  fondant  to  a  little  lower  degree  than  for  ordi- 
nary use.  Beat  until  creamy,  add  .a  little  sweet  cream, 
roll  in  balls,  dip  in  melted  chocolate. 

Cocoanut  Caramels. 

Two  and  one-fourth  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  glucose,  or  corn  syrup^  one-half  cup  of  butter  and 
two  small  cocoanuts  or  one  large  one.  Put  sugar,  glucose 
(and  enough  water  to  dissolve  it  (about  three-fourths  of  a 
cup)  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  dissolved,  then  add  the 
butter  and  cocoanut  and  stir  constantly  until  it  has 
cooked  dry,  or  when  tried  in  water  it  makes  a  firm 
ball,  pour  on  greased  slab.  When  cool  or  nearly  so, 
gather  into  a  lump  and  press  out  as  smooth  as  possible. 
Poll  into  one-half  inch  square  cake,  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  sprinkle  over  with  granulated  sugar  or  dip 
in  chocolate  or  fondant 


Calr,  Candy  and  Cidinanj  Crinldes.  209 

Candy  Pudding  No.  1. 

Five  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of 
very  light  syrup,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  cream.  Water  enough  to 
dissolve.  Cook  until  it  creams  when  tried  in  a  saucer. 
Fut  in  ORO  pound  of  ground  almonds,  one-fourth  pound 
of  chopped  figs,  one  pound  of  raisins.  Stir  well,  ro- 
move  from  the  fire,  and  beat  hard  until  it  begins  to 
cream.  EoU  in  a  damp  cloth.  AVhen  cold  and  firm,  cut 
in  pieces. 


Candy  Pudding  No,  2,    sj 


Cook  six  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  water,  tAvo  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one  full  tea- 
spoon 'of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  of  soda  together  until  it  cracks  on  the 
gide  of  glass  when  tried  in  cold  water  or  to  24G  if  ther- 
momeiter  is  used.  Pour  on  oiled  slab,  when  cool,  pull 
until  light  and  white,  flavoT,  and  pull  until  the  flavor- 
ing is  blended  well.  Pull  and  work  into  this  one  full 
cup  of  coooanut,  one-half  cup  each  of  chopped  almonds, 
pecans  and  raisins,  knead  with  the, hands  until  it  be- 
gins to  cream.  Line  a  mould  or  dish  with  cloth  dipped 
in  cold  water  and  wrung  dry,  fill  with  pudding,  let 
stand  until  ready  for  use.  Sprinkle  cinnamon  over  and 
cut  in  slices,  or  cover  over  with  melted  chocolate,  which 
keeps  the  candy  fresh  and  moist  much  longer.  Figs,  can- 
died cherries,  pineapple,  pistaschio  and  other  nuts  can 


210  Cal'e,  Candy  and  Culinary  Cnnliles. 

be  used,  or  leave  out  the  fruits  and  add  only  al- 
monds. It  can  be  colored  in  two  or  more  colors  and 
moulded  in  layers.  It  is  pliable  and  can  be  made  into 
shapes  as  fondant  and  by  many  considered  much  better 
than  the  fondant. 

Cracl-er  Jacl\ 

Boil  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  each 
or  sorghum  molasses  and  water,  a  pinch  of  soda,  .salt 
and  cream  of  tartar  to  gether  to  the  crack  stage.  Pour 
into  this  (two  cups  of  shelled  peanuts  and  two  cups  of 
puffed  rice.  Stir  wxll  and  pour  on  slab  and  roll  out, 
break  in  pieces.  Miss  Paxton. 

Hard  Nut  Candy. 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Cook  to  a  golden  brown^  pour 
in  rounds  on  oiled  slab,  or  fill  small  moulds,  which  have 
been  previously  well  oiled,  and  filled  with  nuts. 

Glace  Nuts  and  Fruit. 

Cook  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  or  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  with  one  cup  of  water  .and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar  together  to  290  or  to  the 
crack  stage  or  it  can  be  cooked  to  310  and  add  when 
removed  from  the  fire  four  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Use 
(the  same  tool  used  in  dipping  bonbons  in  fondant. 
Coat  the  nuts  well  and  lay  on  a  sheet  of  tin  as  they 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  Crinldes.  211 

will  not  stick  to  tin  at  all.  Candied  fniits  are  dippea 
the  same  way,  cherries^  pieces  of  pineapple,  plums  and 
apricots.  When  oranges  are  dipped  they  must  be  di- 
viced  in  seotions,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  thin 
skin  surrounding  them  a.s  this  prevents  the  juice  from 
coming  through  and  spoiling  the  candy.  In  dipping 
grapes,  tokay  or  malaga  (are  the  ones  generally  used) ; 
break  from  the  bunch  leaving  a  little  of  the  stem. 

Woodland  Delights, 

Cook  three  cups  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  glu- 
cose together  to  290  degrees.  Eemove  from  the  fire,  add 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  -a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon 
of  lemon  juice.  Stir  well  and  add  three  cups  of  nuti 
broken  in  pieces,  stirring  in  quickly.  Break  in  imall 
pieces. 

Peanut  Nougat. 

Melt  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  in  iron  skillet, 
have  ready  one  quart  of  shelled  peanuts  with  skins  re- 
moved and  chopped  fine.  Add  to  melted  sugar  and 
pour  in  well  greased  square  pans.  Mark  at  once  into 
squares,  cool  and  break  into  pieces. 

Nougat  Wafers. 

"Melt  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  witli  one  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  juice  in  a  hot  skillet,  add  when  melted 
one  cup  of  blanched   (dried  in  the  oven)   chopped  al' 


212  Cal-e^  Candy  and  Culinary  Cr'inl'Us. 

monds.  Stir  in  lightly  and  pour  in  a  well  greased 
pan,  press  evenly  and  cut  before  it  gets  (too  hard  into 
small  squares.  Cook  the  sugar  until  it  begins  to  color 
before  adding  the  almonds.  Cut  some  in  tiny  squares 
or  oblongs  and  coat  with  chocolate. 

Nougat. 

Put  two  and  one-half  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one 
teblespoon  of  lemon  juice  in  a  skillet  and  melt  and 
cook  to  a  light  straw  color,  add  one  cup  of  finely  chop- 
ped almonds  that  have  been  dried  in  the  oven  but  not 
browned.  Stir  just  enough  to  mix,  as  much  stirriEf; 
will  make  it  .sugar,  pour  on  oiled  slab,  rub  over  with 
one-half  lemon  and  cut  while  hot. 

Nougat  for  Moulding. 

Cook  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  with  one-half  cup 
of  water  until  it  begins  to  color  or  to  the  caramel  stage, 
add  four  or  five  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  one-half  cup  of 
hot,  dried  chopped  almonds.  Cut  while  warm  in  pieces 
and  fit  into  or  over  oiled  moulds,  loosen  while  still  warm, 
but  leave  in  or  over  moulds  until  ready  for  use.  Bowls, 
cups,  tumblers  or  china  moulds  in  fancy  shapes  can  all 
be  used  to  mould  the  nougat  and  furnish  beautiful 
receptacles  for  glace  fruits  land  bonbons. 

.Sugared  Almonds. 
Cook  one  cup  of  sugar  with  one-half  cup  of 


Calce,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinJdes.  213 

until  it  reaches  the  soft  ball  stage,  add  ithree-fourths 
cup  of  blanched  almonds ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir 
until  the  almonds  are  well  covered  with  the  sugar; 
turn  them  out;  cook  another  cup  of  sugar  in  the  same 
way,  add  'the  almonds  and  give  them  a  second  coating 
of  sugar;  turn  out  before  they  lump  together  and  let 
dry. 

Burnt  Almonds. 

Melt  brown  or  white  sugar,  add  a  little  water  and 
cook  two  or  three  minutes,  add  as  many  almonds  as  the 
sugar  will  take;  istir  them  until  the  .sugar  granulates; 
turn  out  and  separate. 

Almond  Paste  for  Moulding. 

Mix  one-half  pound  of  loaf  sugar  and  one-half  pound 
of  ground  almonds  (ground  very  fine),  three  tablespoons 
of  brandy  and  one  tablespoon  of  strained  lemon  juice, 
cock  about  seven  minutes.  It  is  pliable  and  can  be 
fitted  into  oiled  moulds.  Small  double  candy  moulds, 
walnut  and  other  shapes  are  good.  Line  the  moulds 
v.'ith  paste  and  fill  with  fondant,  plain  or  with  fruits 
and  nuts  added  or  with  one  of  the  divinity  mixtures  or 
marshmallows. 

Marsh  mallows  No.  1. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold 
waiter  until  soft,  add  one-half  cup  of  water  to  one  cup 


214:  Cale,  Candy  and  CuUnanj  Crinl-les. 

cf  sugar  and  cook  until  dissolved,  add  tliis  to  gelatine. 
let  cool  slightly,  add  a  pinch,  of  salt  and  flavoring  and 
whip  until  quite  stiff.  Dust  square  pans  an  inch  deep 
with  pulverized  .sugar,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  dust 
over  the  (top  with  sugar.  When  .stiff  turn,  out  and  cut 
in  squares;  roll  in  sugar.  Coloring  can  be  added  if  de- 
fiired. 

Marslimalloius  No.  2. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of 
cold  water,  cook  two  cups  of  sugar  with  three-fourths 
cup  of  w^ater  until  it  hairs,  pour  over  gelatine,  beat 
hard  until  it  begins  to  whiten,  add  (the  beaten  whites 
of  't^vo  eggs  and  continue  to  beat  until  quite  stiff. 
Melted  chocolate,  chopped  nuts  and  fruits  can  be  added. 
When  it  begins  (to  stiffen,  pour  in  pans  dusted  with 
sugar  as  the  above  receipt. 

Marshmallow  Mints. 

Melt  fondant  over  hot  water,  color  and  flavor  with 
peppermint.  Dip  marshmallow  in  the  fondant  and  put 
on  oiled  paper  or  slab  to  dr}' ;  two  or  more  colors  served 
together  make  attractive  bonbons. 

Caramel  Marshmallows. 

Make  cream  caramel  icing,  see  page  177;  beat  un- 
til creamy,  dip  marshmallows  in  the  mixture  when  it 
be.o-ins  to  cool. 


CoJce,  Caiichj  and  Culinary  CrMIcs.  215 

Marshmallow  Baskets  No.  1. 

Dip  marshmallows  in  fondant  (see  melting  fondant 
pacre  197.)  Shape  small,  cohered  wire  as  handle  and 
«tick  into  the  marshmallows  to  resemble  a  basket.  Cover 
handle  with  icing,  using  a  snLa.ll  round  tnbe.  Decorate 
the  sides  to  look  like  basket  platting,  fill  with  little 
flowers  made  with  small  tube  'and  dilTerent  colored 
icings.  Lily  of  the  valley  and  forget-m.e-nots  make  the 
daintest  flowers  for  them  and  they  are  m.ade  with  the 
Bmall  round  tube. 

Pigs  in  Blaiikeis. 

Cut  marshmallows  in  half,  flatten  small  pieces  of 
cream  or  chocolate  caramel  mJxtiire,  roll  around  the 
miarshraallow,  leaving  a  little  of  the  marshmallow  at 
each  end  exposed. 

Pome-de-Terres. 

Roll  fondant  or  one  of  the  candy  pudding  mixtures 
in  small  oblong  rounds  and  roll  in  pulverized  cinna- 
mon. Stick  small  pieces  of  desecated  cocoanut  in,  to 
resemble  the  eye  of  the  potato. 

Fruit  Paste, 

Grind  togsther  figs,  raisins,  dates  and  nuts  in  equal 
proportions.  Work  with  the  hands  until  well  blended, 
roll   in  balls,   dip  in  fondant,  then   in   chocolate,   or 


216  Cal-e,  Candy  and  Cidinary  CrinTcIes. 

sprinkled  over  marble  slab  with  pulverized  sugar,  roll 
the  fruit  in  a  sheet  an  inch,  more  or  less,  thick,  cut 
in  .squares  and  dip  in  either  fondarut  or  chocolate  or 
both. 

Fruit  Puffs. 

One-half  dozen  marshmallows,  one-half  cup  of  honey, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  whites  of  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  each  of  candied  cherries  and  pineapple  and 
one  cup  of  nut  meats.  Cook  sugar  and  water  until  dis- 
solved, add  honey  and  boil  to  firm  ball  stage,  add  marsh- 
mallows  and  remove  from  fire.  Cover  over  and  let  stand 
five  minutes,  then  stir  quickly  until  raarshmallows  are 
blended.  Pour  this  over  the  sitiffly  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  harden.  Add  the  fruit 
and  nuts,  pour  in  pan,  cut  into  squares  and  dust  with 
pulverized  sugar. 

Meringue  Caramel  Bombons. 

Shape  cream  meringue  mixture  through  tube  into 
tiny  little  roses,  cook  a  delicate  brown,  dip  in  cream 
caramel  icing  or  in  fondant. 

Decorative  Mints. 

Make  'Or  buy  mints  in  different  colors  and  shapes. 
Confectioners  will  make  them  any  shape  and  color. 
Follow  directions  for  decorating  little  cakes  using  very 

sm.all  tubes. 


Cal-e,  Candy  and  Culinary  CrinlJes.  217 

Stuffed  Dates  and  Figs. 

Soak  large  firmi  dates  in  wine  or  soften  in  hot  wa- 
ter, remove  seed  and  fill  with  marshmallow,  divinity, 
fondant  plain  or  with  fruits,  or  fill  with  nuts  alone, 
roll  in  granulated  sugar.  Bottled  figs  are  drained 
and  stuffed  in  (the  same  way,  or  they  can  be  filled 
with  fruit  marshmallow  and  served  as  a  dessert  with 
whipped  cream. 

Crystallized  Fruit  Peel. 

•Cut  the  peel  into  strips,  hoil  one-half  hour  in  enough 
water  to  cover  well;  pour  off  water  and  add  water  -to 
cover  and  boil  one-half  hour,  pour  off  water  and  cook 
one  cup  of  sugar  'and  one-half  cup  water  to  each  cup  of 
peel.  Put  all  on  together  and  cook  dry  or  until  the 
syrup  is  cooked  up.  Spread  out,  'coveir  with  granulated 
sugar  and  dry.     Pack  in  boxes. 

Fruit  Coloring. 
In  coloring  cake,  candy,  icings,  confections,  etc.,  use 
Burnett's  paste,  except  in  the  leaf  green,  and  for  that 
use  Knapp's.  Burnett's  come  in  two  sized  jars  retailing 
for  fifteen  to  thirty-five  cents  a  jar.  The  colors 
ordinarily  used  are  golden  yellow,  damask  ro,se,  violet 
and  leaf  green.  It  takes  a  very  small  quantity  of  paste 
to  color  la  very  large  quantity  of  mixture,  so  it  is 
important  to  use  too  little  at  first  rather  than  too 
much.  WTiat  will  adhere  to  the  point  of  a  small  skewer 
will  color  a  quant  of  liquid  or  a  pint  of  solid  mixture. 
Avoid  having  too  deep  coloring. 


Un5ex* 


Almond,  bavarian,  117. 
Almonds,    burnt,    213. 
Almond      paste      for      lining 

moulds,    133. 
Almond    paste  for    moulding, 

213. 
Almond    paste    to    spread    on 

cakes,    181. 
Almonds,    sugared,   212. 
Aspic,    quick,    IS. 
Aspic,  to  clarify,  19. 

B 

Baking,   27. 

Banbury    tarts,    106. 

Beef   cutlets   with   Vegetables 

50. 
Beef    grilled    with    Capsicum 

Sauce,   49. 
Beef  with  tomatoes,  49. 
Bernaise    sauce.    52. 
Biscuit,   yeast,  70. 
Brain   cutlets,  51. 
Brain   and   chicken   patties  51 
Brain    timbals,   50. 
Bread.    German    coffee.    71. 
Bread,    nut    No.   1,    74. 
Bread,     nut     No.    2,     74. 
Bread,   nut.    No.   3.   74. 
Bread,   oatmeal   brown,  73. 
Bread,  plain  white  loaf.  70. 
Bread,   quick  graham,  73. 
Bread,    salt   rising.   No.   1,   72. 
Bread,   salt   rising,   No.   2,   73. 
Bread   served  with  soup,  34. 
Bread,  water  No.  1,  69. 
Bread,    v.-ater    No.    2,    69. 
Bread,    yeast,   67. 
Brod    Kuchen.    1.55. 
Brownies.    162. 
Butter,  pink,  44. 
Butter,  ways  of  preparing  77. 
Butter,  white,  44. 


Cake,    almond,   1.54, 
Cake,    Angel    food.    1-50. 
Cake,    Angel    with     nut    and 

whipped   cream   filling,   1.50. 
Cake.   Angel   marshmallow, 

150. 


Cake,  apple  sauce,  155. 
(Cake    baskets      for      serviag 

ices,   132. 
Cake,   boiled   raisin,  148. 
Cake,   border   orange,  120. 
Cake,    chocohi'te,    144. 
Cake,  chocolate  caramel,  144. 
Cake,    chocolate   fudge,    144. 
Cake,  cocoanut,  146. 
Cake,  cups.  142. 
"Cake,    date,    146. 
■Cake,  fruit,  149. 
Cake,    fruit    laver,   142. 
Cake,  fruit  jam,  148. 
Cake,    hazel    nut.    149. 
iCake,    hot   water    sponge   1.51. 
Cake,   how   to    mix   and   bake 

137. 
Cake,    how   to   mix   and   bake 

Angel  food,  139. 
Cake,  how  to  dip  in  fandant, 

17U. 
Cake,   Lady   Baltimore,   145. 
Cake,  Lady  fing'er,  153. 
Cake,    laver    No.    1,    141. 
Cake,  laver.  No.  2,  141. 
Cake,  litit.i.e  drop,  160. 
Cake,  little  drop  almonds  161. 
Cake,    little    drop,    Columbia, 

160. 
€ake,    little   drop,    New   Eng- 
land,   161. 
Cake,    nut,    149. 
Cake,    nut   layer,   142. 
Cake,  oatmeal  No.  1.  159. 
Cake,  oatmeal.  No.  2,  159. 
Cake,,    orange,    143. 
Cake,  plain  white  No.  1,  140. 
Cake,   plain  white.   No.  2.  141. 
Cake,    potato.    No.    1.    142. 
Cake,  potato  No.  2,  143. 
Cake,    rounds      for      serving 

ices,   132. 
Cake    snovN'balls,    147. 
Cake,   spice,   No.   1,   147. 
Cake,   fepice   No.   2,   147.     , 
Cake,    spiced    ginger,    148. 
Cake,  sunshine  No.  1.  152. 
Cake,   sunshine  No.  2,  152. 
Cake,  .sunshine   No.  3.  1.53. 
Cake,    tea.    No.    1.    158. 
Cake,  ;tea  No.  2,  158. 
Cake,  tea  honey,  160. 


219 


220 


Index. 


Cake,    yeQlow  sponge,   152. 

Cake,  candy  and  confections, 
187. 

Candy   baskets  No.  1,  133. 

Candy    baskets    No.    2,    133. 

Candy  baskets  No.  3,  133. 

Candy,   cream   No.    1,    197. 

Candy,  cream   No.   2,   197. 

Candy,  cream   nut  202. 

Candy,    directions   for   mak- 
ing,   192. 

Candy,   hard   nut,   210. 

Candy,    important    things    to 
know  about,  189, 

Candy,  ornamental  pulled  198. 

Candy,  plain  white,  196. 

Candy,  pudding  No.  1,  209. 

Candy    puding   No.   2,   209. 

Candy,    seafoam    cream    202. 

Candy,  useful   tools  for  mak- 
ing, 187. 

Caramels,    cream    No.    1,    205. 

Caramels,  cream  No.  2,  205. 

Caramels,  cream  No.  3,  205. 

Caramels,  cream  No.  4,  205. 

Caramels,  cream  No.  5,  206. 

Caramels,    chocolate     No.     1, 
207. 

Caramels,    chocolate      No.     2, 
208. 

Caramels,    cocoanut,    208. 

Charlotte,  individuals     No.  1, 
119. 

Charlotte,    individuals    No.    2, 
119. 

Ohartotite,  sunshine,  120. 

Cheese    custard,    42. 

Cheese  eclaire,  46. 

Cheese    fondu,    43. 

Cheese,  scalloped,  44. 

Cheese  soufflee,  42. 

Cheese    timbal    cream,    45. 

Cheese  wafers,  43. 

Cheese    wafers    Italienne,    43, 

Cheese     dish,    a    nice,    43. 

Chicken-a-la-King    No.    1,    52. 

rhieken-a-la-King    No.    2,    53. 

Chicken-a-la-King    No.    3,    53. 

Chicken  and  nut  timbal,  .55. 

Chicken    and    oysters    timbal, 
54. 

Chicken  bisque,  84. 

Chicken    casserole,    52. 

Chicken  cutlets,  54. 

Chicken,   imperial   cream,  54. 

Chicken,  South  Carolina,  51. 

Chocolate  drops,  208. 


Chocolate  coatinig",  191. 
Cocoanut   puffs,   151. 
Consomme,   32. 
Consomme-a-la   New   Orleans, 

32. 
Consomme    spaghetti,    33. 
Cracker   jack,   210. 
Cream,     frozen     waitermelon, 

128. 
Cream,  frozen  whipped,  127. 
Cream,    nougatine,    127. 
Cream,    pistachio,    117. 
Creamed   cauliflower,   56. 
Crisps,  bread  and  butter,  78. 
Croquette,  plum  pudding,  115 
Croquettes,  meat  and  nut,  55. 
Croquette,  fruit,  115. 
Croquette,  rice  and  fruit,  114. 
Croustade  of  asparagus,  57. 
Croustade  of  ham  with  cheese 

50. 
Crysitallized  fruit  peel,  217. 
Custard,   savory,  33. 

D 

Date   cake,   146. 

Date   loaf,   146. 

Directions  for  making  cake, 
16.5. 

Directions  for  cutting,  dip- 
ping and  icing  small  indi- 
vidual  cakes,  166. 

Directions  for  icing  cake,  166. 

Divinitv    No.    1,    201. 

Divinity  No.  2.  201. 

Doughnuts,   156. 

E 

Egg  soufflee,  40. 

Egg    timbal    No.    1,   39. 

Egg  timbal  No.  2,  39. 

Eggs-a-la-Turk,    42. 

Eggs  in  a  border  of.  rice,  42. 

Eggs  in  nests  of  cream  chick- 
en,   39. 

E.irgs,    Parisienne,   41. 

Eggs,  scrambled  and  cheese, 
45. 

English  brambles,  107. 


Filling,   almond   No.  1,  179. 
Filling,    almond    No.   2,   179. 
Filling,    charlotte.    119. 
Filling,    cream,    179. 
Filling,   fruit   No.   1.  179. 
Filling,  fruit  No.  2,  180. 


Index. 


231 


Fii'iu^  for  pastrj'-'shells.  107, 

Fining-,    marsiimallow,    174. 
Filling,      marsilimnllow      and 
caramel,   174. 

Filling,    prauline,    176. 

Fiiliug  for    sandvi-iches,   81. 

Filling,   soft   chocolate,  177. 

Filling,    sunsliine,    ISO. 

Filling  for  orange  cake,  143. 

Fish    cutsets,    38. 

Fish    timbals,    38. 

Fish   and   nut   timbafl,  38. 

Fisih   pimento   timbal,   39. 

Flavoring   and    shaping   bon- 
bons,   194. 

Flower  decorations,  168. 

Fondant,    193. 

Fondant,    Arabian,   196. 

Fondant  for   mints,   195. 

Fondant,  how  to  dip,  195. 

Fondant,  suggestions  in  col- 
oring, 194.  • 

Fruit   cups,   125. 

Fruit  coloring,  217. 

Fruit    paste,   215. 

Fruit  puffs,  216. 

Fudge,   cocoa,   200. 

Fudge,    college.    199. 

Fudsre,    chocoilate   with    fruit, 
200. 

Fudge,   marshmallow     No.   1, 
198. 

Fudee,    marshmallow    No.    2, 
198. 

Fudge,    marshmallow    No.    3, 
199. 

Fudge,  oriental,  200. 

Fudge,    Russian,   201. 

Fudge,  seafoam,  199. 

G 

Garnish  for  cold  meat,  18. 
Garnish   for     congealed     and 

frozen    dessertsT   24. 
Garnish  for  fish,  9. 
Garnish  for  meat,  12. 
Garnish  for  salad,  22. 
German  cookies,  154. 
Glace,  nuts  and  fruit,  210. 
Glace,   pineappQe.  126. 
Glaze,   17. 
Glaze  for  covering  cake,  181. 


Ice   cream,    plain,    124. 
Ice   cups   No.   1,   130. 
lee  cups  No.  2,  131. 


Icing,  caramel,  175. 

Icing,  chocolate,   177. 

Icing,  cocoanut,    17-3. 

Icing,  cream    caramel,    175. 

Icing,  decorative  No.   1,   171. 

Icing,  decorative    No.    2,    172, 

Icing,  decorative   No.   3,  172. 

Icing,  decorative  No.  4,   172. 

Icing,  decorative  No.  5,  173. 

Icing,  direction    for    making, 

165. 

Icing,  divinity,   180. 

Icing,  fondant  or  candy,  175. 

'Icing,  fruit,    180. 

Icing,  golden,  175. 

Icing,  maple    syrup,    176. 

Icing,  marshmallow      No.    1, 

173. 

Iciing,  marshmallow      No.    2, 

173. 

Icing,  plain  white  No.  1,  170. 

Icing,  plain  white  No.  2,  171. 

Icing,  plain  white   No.  3,   .172. 

Icing,  prauline,   176. 

Icing,  soafoam,  177. 

Icing,  Vienna    chocolate,    178. 

Icing,  Vienna    vanilla,    178. 


Jelly  cups,  134. 
Jelly,   duchess,   118. 
Jelly    for   molding    and    gar- 
nishing   fruit    sala.ds,    94. 
Jelly,    imperial,    116. 
Jelly,    snow    flake.    117. 
Jelly,    to    mold,    19. 
Jelly,    unmould,    21. 
Jelly,    wine,    116. 


Lobster,  shell  fish,  crahs,  10. 
Luncheon   rolls,   71. 
Liver,  baked,  50. 

M 

Macaroons,  cocoanut,  162. 
Macaroons,  mock,  161. 
Marshmallows   No.  1,  213. 
Marshmallows   No.  2,   214. 
MarshmaLlow    baskets    No.    1, 

215. 
Marshmallow,    caramel,    214. 
Marshmallow,  glace,  122. 
]Marshmallov»'  mints,  214. 
Marshmallow    pudding,    122. 
Maryland     chicken     pudding", 

51. 


^22 


Index. 


Mayonnaise,   87. 
Mayonnaise,   jellly,   88. 
Mayonnaise,   mustard,   86. 
Marine    dressing,   86. 
Meringue   border,    120. 
Meringue    earamer      bonbons, 

216. 
Meringue  for  pies,  103. 
Meringue    squares,    121. 
Meringues,   cream,   121. 
Mint  drops,   196. 
Mints,   decorated,  216. 
Muffins,  English,  72. 
Muffins,    rice,    77. 
Muffins,   rice   and   nut,  76. 
Nougatines,  203. 
Nut  puffs,  114-151. 

N 
Nougat,   212. 

Nougat  for  moulding,  212. 
Nougat,  fruit,  203. 
Nougat  loaf,  202. 
Nougat,  patience,  204. 
Nougat,  peanut,  211. 

O 

Omelet,  caramel  and  nuts,  40. 

Orange  cake  corder  witli  or- 
ange glace,  120. 

Oysters,   creamed,  37. 

Oysters  creamed  with  cheese, 
35. 

Oysters  in   peppers,  35. 

Oyster  in   ramekins,  35. 

Oyster  loaf,  36. 

Oyster,   saute,   36. 

Oyster   shortcake,   37. 


Pie,  cranberry,  105. 

Pie,    cream    No.   1,    105. 

Pie,  cream  No.  2,  106. 

Pie,   cream   currant,   105. 

Pie,    chocolate,    103. 

Pie,    orange,   106. 

Pie,    Philadelphia      cocoanut, 

107. 
Pie,    rhubarb,   104. 
Pigs   in    blankets,    21.5. 
Plain   pie  crust,  101. 
Pome   (le  terres   (candy),  215. 
Pome   de   terres    (cakei,   151. 
Potatoes    as    a   garnish,   14. 
Potato  crust    for  dumplings, 

103. 
Praulines   No.   1,   203. 
Praulines  No.  2,   205. 
Praulines,    New   Orleans,   204. 
Prune  soufflee,  113. 
Pudding,     Bavarian     sponge, 

116. 
Pudding,    date,  115. 
Pudding,   ginger,  112. 
Pudding,  frozen.  128. 
Pudding,  individual  fruit,  113. 
Pudding,   macaroon,  112. 
Pudding,    Maryland    chicken, 

51. 
Pudding,  plum,  115. 
Pudding,  potato  and  nut,  112. 
Pudding,   rice.  111. 
Pudding,  rice  and  marshmal- 

low.    111. 
Pudding,   sponge,  111- 
Puff    paste    No.    1,   99. 
Puff  Paste  No.  2,  100. 


Pancake   for  consomme,  33. 

Parfait,  angel   and  nut,  127. 

Parfait,    marshmallow,    126. 

Paste  for  timbal.  118. 

Paste,   tartlette,   102. 

Pastry,  99. 

Pastry  bags  and  tubes,  15. 

Pastry    crullers.    16. 

Pastry   shells,   16-102. 

Pate   de   Foi^   Gras,  80. 

Patience,   204. 

Patty  shels,  100. 

Peach  melba,  126. 

Pepper  nuts,  155. 

Pepper  soufflee,  56. 

Pie,    buttermilk    custard,   105. 

Pie,    caramel,    104. 

Pie,  caramel,  104. 


Receptacles  for  ices,   124. 
Rice  as  a   garnish,   15. 
Rissoles,    101. 
Rocks,   159. 

S 
Salad,    asparagus,   92. 
Salad,    Bermuda,    92. 
Salad,  celery  and  grape  fruit 

90. 
Salad,  celery  and  nut,  90. 
Salad,  cheese,  91. 
Salad,    chicken,    88. 
Salad,  ohicken  and  nut,  89. 
Salad,  creani  cheese  and  nut, 

94. 
Salad,   fish  and  pimento.  93. 
Salad,    frozen    tomato,    90. 
Salad,  fruit,  94. 


Index, 


223 


Salad,   fruit  with    a   garnisb 

of  chopped  jelly,  96. 
Salad,   grape   fruit   No.   1,   95. 
Salad,   grape   fruit    No.   2,   95. 
Salad,      green      pepper      and 

cheese,  93. 
Salad,  June  apple  en-surprise 

91. 
Salad,    marshmallow,    95. 
Salad,      moulded  '    pineapple 

and    cucumber,    90. 
Salad,    pineapple   and   cheese, 

93. 
Salad,   pineapple     with   jelly, 

96. 
Salad,   stuffed  tomato,  92. 
Salad,    sweet    bread    and    cu- 
cumber,  89. 
Salad,  tomato  and  cheese,  89. 
Salad,    tomato    pineapple,   92. 
Salad    dressing   No,   1,   85. 
Salad    dressing    No.    2.    86. 
Salad   dressing   No.  3,   86. 
Salad   dressing,   French,  87. 
Salad     dressing,     fruit,     87. 
Salad   dressing.   Marine,  86. 
Sally    lunn,    76. 
Sally   lunn,  quick,   76. 
Sand   tarts,  158. 
Sandwiches,    78. 
Sandwiches,  bread  and  butter 

loaf,    78. 
Sandwiches,    dream,    80. 
Sandwich    fillings,    81. 
Sandwich,  rolled,  79. 
Sandwich,    tomato,    80. 
Sandwich,    v»'hite    and    brown 

bread,  79. 
Sauce,  almond.  61. 
Sauce,   bernaise.  61. 
Sauce,   brown,    No.   1,   59. 
Sauce,  brown   No.  2,  59, 
Sauce,   cheese,   41. 
Sauce  for  cheese  timbal,  45. 
Sauce,    foamy,    62. 
Sauce  for  fish  No.  1,  60. 
Sauce  for  fish   No.   2,  60. 
Sauce    for   vegetables,    59. 
Sauce,    fruit,    62. 
Sauce,  hollandaise,  61. 
Sauce,  marshmallow,  63. 
Sauce,    ppulette,   61. 
Snuce,   solid    or  hard,  62. 
Snuce,  sunshine,  63. 
Snuce,   tomato,  60. 
Sauce,  white  cream,  59, 


Sauce,  capsicum,  49. 

Savory  Rechaufee,  57. 

Scalloped  tomatoes  56. 

Scones  No.  1,  75. 

Scones  No.  2,  76. 

Scones,    potato,   75. 

Shell   fish,   lobster  crabs,   19. 

Sherbet,  cranberry,  12b. 

Sherbet,  creme  de  minthe,  125 

Sherbet,   fruit,   124. 

Sherbet,  milk,  124. 

Some  ways  of  using  aspic  as 

a  garnish,  18. 
Soup  stock   made  from  bone, 

31. 
Soup  stock,  to  clarify,  31. 
Spun    sugar   nests,   1.30. 
Spaghetti      croustades      v.itli 

creamed  oysters,  36. 
Starch  boxes,  190. 
Sweet   bread   ramekins,  55. 
Stuffed   dates  and  figs,  217. 
Stuffed   peaches,  123. 


Table  of  proportions,  26. 

Table  of  weights  and  meas- 
ures, 26. 

Tarts,    sand,   138. 

Tarts,  banbury,  106. 

Timbal   shells.  16. 

Timbal,  St.  Augustine,  117. 

To  combine  icing  and  filling 
\\ith    cake,    182. 

To    make    yeast,    70. 

Tubes  made  from  paper,  168. 


Vanities,  157. 
Vol-au-veuts,   101. 

W 

Wafers,    ginger,    157. 
Wafers,   love,   157. 
Wafers,  nougat,  211. 
Wafers,    rolled    No.    1,    156. 
Wafers,    rolled    No.    2,    156. 
Woodland  delights,  211. 


Yeast,  quick,  68. 
Yeast  foam,  68. 


ci        U 


H-'iO 


h 


yy 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

lllllllllllllllillillll 

3  9999  06561  023  8 


