S  S: 


s'~Z 


§  CALIFORNIA  § 


^ 


p.         .  A'^ 


(^ 


•?'^ 


Jl|^ 


BY 


^S, 


#j  Ladies  of  California. .. 

^ ^ 


^a/z   aA«/Z   azoZ   Hue   liif   Ltaad  alane. 


I 


an   trancisco: 

Bruce's  Printing  House,  535  Sacramento  Street. 
—.•1872:— 


HAYITES  ^  LAWTOIT, 


IMPORTERS    or 


FINE  TEENCH 

CHINA 

DtNNEH 


T  15    A  fil 


AKEBICAN 

AND 

ilass  Ware, 
PEENOH 

FINE 
Table  Cutlery 

ETC. 


MARKET    STREET 

UNDER   GRAND   HOTEL. 


EDGAR  BISHOP. 


A.  S.  PETERSON. 


L.  W.  PALMER. 


ISTXTCLETJS/ 


$$$$IO$>    %    C 


♦ 


Mm 


'a 


€a  t^ceie/mn/d 


^AN     j^RANCISCO 
BRUCE 'S  PRINT. 


s    ^ 


'^. 


CALIFORNIA  § 

9 


(? 


aa 


BY 


■S  Ladies  of  California.  ^ 


\^ 


jflaiL   kkaJl   not  LliLe   kif  klead  aiane. 


ji 


^  COPYRlGHr-: 

m  tranctHca:  V%^^ — "-'o? 


I 


Bruce's  Printing  House,  535  Sacramento  Street. 
— :i872:— 


A^ 


^ 


e^ 


h"^ 


The  object  in  compiling  this  work,  has  been  to 
obtain  a  collection  of  reliable  recipes.  The  par- 
ties fronl  whom  they  have  been  received,  are  per- 
sonally known  to  the  compilers,  and  they  vouch  for 
their  correctness  and  practicability.  Appreciating 
the  assistance  rendered  us  by  the  ladies  of  the  First 
Congregational  Church,  to  them  this  work  is  re- 
spectfully dedicated. 


Dishes  for  Breakfast  or  Luncheon ! 


In  order  to  secure  good  bread,  the  best  of  flour 
sliould  be  used,  even  at  a  greater  cost.  New  flour 
or  meal  is  best.  To  make  good  bread,  it  must  be 
thoroughly  kneaded.  The  oven  must  be  hot  when 
the  bread  is  first  put  in  and  then  tempered  accord- 
ng  to  judgment. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES 


MUFFINS  ^  Mrs.  C. 
1  cup  of  sugar,  |  do.  butter,  J  do.  yeast,  1  quart  of 
milk,  4  eggs,  flour   sufficient   to   make   a   stiff  batter. 
When  risen   lightly,  bake  in  rings  or  gem  pans.      Bake 
quickly. 

QUICK  MUFFINS— Mrs.  C. 

1  quart  of  flour,  1  tablespoon,  heaped  of  butter,  2  tea- 
spoons of  yeast-powder,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  eggs, 
a  little  salt,  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  soft  batter  (nearly 
a  pint).     Bake  the  same  as  above. 


MUFFINS— Mrs.  S. 

3  tea  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  yeast  powder,  a  little 
salt,  3  or  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter — milk 
for  a  thick  batter. 


BREAKFAST  DISHES  i 

BREAKFAST  CREAM  CAKES. 

1  pint  of  cream,  3  eggs,  a  little  salt,  flour  (sufficient 
for  a  good  batter),  about  3  cups.  Bake  the  same  as  the 
former,  in  a  quick  oven, 

BREAKFAST  CAKE. 

2  cups  of  flour,  1  do.  of  milk,  ^  do.  of  sugar,  2  eggf^^, 
1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  do.  of  cream  of  tartar. 


FRENCH  ROLLS. 

'  3  cups  of  flour,  1  of  milk,  1  of  water.  Stir  in  the 
flour  gradually,  beat  briskly  about  five  minutes.  Put  a 
piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  pea  into  each  mold,  fill  f 
full. 

FRENCH  ROLLS  —  Mrs.  W. 

i|  pints  of  raised  bread,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  white 
sugar,  1  teacup  of  flour,  ^  teaspoon  of  soda.  Let  it  stand 
in  the  pan  till  thoroughly  risen. 

RYE    BISCUIT— Mrs,  C, 
A  little  more  than  a  pint  of  rye;  the  remainder  of  the 
quart  of  flour;    buiLer  nearly  as  large  as  an  egg;  two 
teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar;    one  of  soda;  mix  with 
milk,  quite  soft,  and  bake  immediately. 


CORN       BREAD, 

{  FROM  A  COLORED  COOK.) 

1  pint  of  meal,  J  do.  of  flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of 
cream  of  tartar,  1  of  soda,  (not  heaped),  1  pint  of  milk, 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

AUNTY'S  BANNOCK. 
1  pint  of  meal,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  of  water,  5  eggs, 
a  little  salt;  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,   scald  the   meal 
with  the  water,  and  add  the  eggs  while  hot.      Bake  an 
hour. 


8  BREAKFAST  DISHES 

WAFFLES— Mrs.  H. 
1  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little 
salt,  flour  sufficient  for  a  batter  to  pour.  Bake  in  waffle- 
irons  or  on  a  griddle. 

POTATO  CAKES  —  Mrs.  S. 
Boil  12  potatoes,  mash  tliem,  add  salt,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  well  mixed;  then  add  1  pint  of  flour,  roll  thin 
and  fry  on  a  griddle;  cut  in  small  cakes. 

YEAL  LOAF,  FOR  LUNCHEON.— Splendid. 
3  ibs  veal  cutlets  and  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork,  chopped 
together,  very  fine,  (uncooked);  1  teacup  of  cracker 
crumbs,  moistened  with  a  little  water,  1  egg,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Bake  IJ  hours,  and  slice  when  cold. 
Add  savory  or  sage,  if  you  like,  when  mixing. 

OMELET.— Mrs.  C.  Harrison  St. 
4  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and  white  separately;  one  table 
spoon  of  flour;  one  teaspoon  of  salt;  one  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter;  add  nearly  a  cup  of  milk;  pour  all,  except 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  into  a  pail,  stand  it  on  the  stove 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  when  it  commences  to  thicken 
add  the  whites,  stirring  gradually;  after  a  few  moments 
pour  in  a  dish,  set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

POP-OVEBS—Mrs.  0.  Bush  St. 
3  eggs,  3  cups  of  milk,  3  do.  flour;  bake  in  cups  half 
filled,  or  gem  pans,  a  little  salt. 

GREEN  CORN  CAKES.— 76iV? 
1  pint  of  grated  corn,  3  tea  cups  of  milk,  1  do.  of  flour 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  egg,  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Fry  in  small  cakes  on  a  griddle. 


EGG  OMELET  —  Mrs.  S. 
4  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  a  little 


BREAKFAST  DISHES  ^ 

salt,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.     Fry  in  hot  butter. 
Turn  only  one-half  on  to  the  other. 

HAM    TOAST  — Nice. 
I  ft)  of  lean  ham,  chopped  fine;  beat  well  the  yokes  of 
3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  of 
cream,  or  good  milk;   stir  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens; 
spread  on  hot  toast. 

BANNOCK  —  Mrs.  H.C.M.  Mason  St. 
1  pint  of  meal,  scalded,  with  nearly  3  pints  of  milk,  a 
small  cup  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt;  bake  nearly 
two  hours. 


BROWN  BREAD  — Mrs.  C. 

3  cups  of  Indian  meal,  3  of  Graham  flour  or  Rye,  as 
you  like  best,  1  cup  of  molasses,  a  little  salt,  a  small 
teaspoon  of  soda,  1  quart  of  boiling  water.  Mix  and  boil 
in  a  tin  steamer  four  hours. 

RYE  AND  INDIAN  LOAF. 

3J  cups  of  Indian  meal,  2  cups  of  Rye  meal,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  salt;  boil  steadily 
and  gently  4  hours  in  a  steamer. 

CORN  CAKE  —  Mrs.  T. 

1  pint  of  corn  meal,  mixed  with  ^  pint  of  flour,  2 
teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  1  of  soda,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  1  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs. 

HOT  CAKES. 

4  cups  of  sour  milk,  J  teaspoon  of  soda  to  each  cup, 
a  little  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  (beat  well). 

AUNTY'S  BROWN  BREAD  —  Splendid. 

2  cups  of  Indian  or  com  meal  (coff'ee  cup),  3  do.  of 
Graham  flour,  1  do.  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  even-full  of 


10  .  BREAKFAST  DISHES 

dry  soda,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  milk,  add  one  quart 
(beer  measure)  of  cold  milk,  a  little  salt.  Pour  into 
your  steam  kettle,  and  steam  2 J  hours;  then  put  in  a 
moderately-heated  oven  and  bake  IJ  hours.  Then  turn 
over  the  kettle  and  bake  another  1|  hours;  follow  close- 
ly the  recipe,  and  you  will  have  a  nice  loaf. 


STRAWBERRY  SHORT   CAKE  — Mrs.  C. 

1  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  1  of  soda, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  mix  Avith  milk,  soft,  and  bake 
quickly,  split,  butter  and  fill  plentifully  with  berries  and 
sugar. 

JUMP-UP  —  Mrs.  C.  Harrison  St. 
1  cup  of  milk,  1  of  flour,  1  egg.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 


PARKER-HOUSE  ROLLS  —  Mrs.  G.  Mason  St. 
Scald  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  milk;  let  it  stand 
till  cold,  2  quarts  of  flour;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of 
the  flour.  After  rubbing  into  the  flour  a  tablespoon  of 
lard  or  butter,  then  add  J  teacup  of  yeast,  a  little  sugar 
and  salt  and  the  milk  cover  with  the  flour.  Let  it  stand 
until  morning,  then  work  until  smooth.  When  it  is  light 
roll  out  and  cut  with  a  pint  pail  cover;  rub  it  over  with 
a  little  butter  and  cup-over  like  a  turnover;  then  let 
them  rise  and  bake  20  minutes.  Splendid;  never  fail 
if  the  directions  are  followed. 


CORN  MEAL  CAKES. 

1  pint  of  corn  meal,  1  quart  of  sour  milk,  4  eggs,  well 
beaten,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  soda  sufficient  to 
sweeten  the  milk;  mix  all  well  together  and  bake  in 
pans.     The  eggs  must  be  well  beaten. 


PASTRY  AHD  PIES 


Pastry  should  be  used  as  soon  as  made,  as  it  is  better 
firesh  than  after  being  kept  a  day  or  two. 

For  a  good  common  pie-crusty  allow  half  a  pound  of 
shortening  to  a  pound  of  flour.  Pie-crust  looks  nicer 
made  of  lard;  but  tastes  better  half  butter. 

Rub  one-half  of  your  shortening,  well,  with  two-thirds 
of  your  flour,  adding  a  little  salt;  then  add  sufficient 
cold  water  to  make  it  sufficiently  moist  to  roll  out;  spread 
on  the  reserve  shortening  as  you  roll  it  out,  sprinkling 
on  the  reserved  flour. 


PIES 


GROUND   RICE   PIE. 


Soak  4  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  rice  in  milk,  cook  a 
few  min¥ites  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water;  cool,  and 
then  add  4  or  5  eggs;  bake  in  a  crust.  The  whites  of 
3  eggs  may  be  reserved  for  frosting,  if  desired. 


LEMON   PIE. 

1  cup  of  milk,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  corn-starch, 
heaped;  2  eggs,  1  lemon;  squeeze  the  juice;  grate  a 
little  of  the  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  sepa- 
rately, add  the  sugar,  juice  and  grated  peel,  then  the 
other  ingredients,  reserving  the  whites  for  frosting. 


LEMON    PIE. 

1  lemon,  grate  the  peel,  squeeze  the  juice,  2  eggs, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  beaten  up  in  J 
tumbler  of  water.     The  whites  for  frosting. 


PIES  13 

LEMON  TAHTS. 

1  large  lemon,  two  eggs,  butter,  half  an  egg  in  size; 
1  coffee-cup  of  sugar.  Squeeze  the  juice,  grate  a  little 
of  the  peel;  add  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beat  well.  Cook  it 
in  a  pail  standing  in  boiling  w^ater,  letting  it  cook  till  it 
thickens,  about  twenty  minutes,  stirring  it  constantly. 
Let  it  cool  a  little  before  filling  the  tarts.  If  the  lemon 
is  very  juicy,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour. 

CRACKER  PIE  —Mrs.  H. 
3  Boston  crackers,  well  broken;  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  water;  juice  and  grated  peel  of  1  lemon.     Bake  in  a 
crust. 


SUMMER  MINCE  PIES,  WITHOUT  MEAT. 
4  pounded  crackers,  IJ  cups  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses, 
1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  water 
small  piece  of  butter,  spices  without  stint. 

LEMON  PIE  —  Mrs.  B.,  Van  Mess  Ave. 
Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  squeeze  the  juice  in- 
to it.  Pound  1  soda-cracker  and  mix  with  IJ  cups  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  water  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat 
the  Avhites  and  eight  or  ten  spoonfuls  of  sugar  together. 
Bake  without  top  crust,  but  spread  the  frosting  over  the 
top,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

APPLE   TARTS  — Mrs.  F.  Ellis  St. 
Stew  and  strain  the  apples.     Take  eight  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  the  apple,  eight  of  sugar,  eight  of  beaten  eggs, 
four  of  melted  butter,  two  of  milk,  a  little  W'ine  and 
nutmeg.     Bake  in  tarts;  no  top  crust. 

APPLE  PIE. 
Peel  the  apples,  slice  them  thin,  sprinkle  sugar  over 
them,  grate  on  lenjon  peel  or  nutmeg,  a  small  piece  of 
butter  on  the  top  of  each  pie. 


14  PIES 

WHORTLEBERRY  OR  BLACKBERRY  PIE. 

MR3.  C,    ELLIS  ST. 

Fill  the  dish  not  quite  even  full,  and  to  each  pie  of  the 
size  of  a  soup-plate,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Dredge  a  very  little  flour  over  the  fruit,  before  you  lay 
on  the  upper  crust. 


RHUBARB   PIE. 

Take  the  tender  stalks  of  the  rhubarb,  strip  off  the 
skin  and  cut  the  stalks  into  thin  slices;  line  the  plates 
with  pie-crust,  then  pour  in  the  rhubarb  with  a  thick 
layer  of  sugar  to  each  layer  of  rhubarb.  A  little  grated 
lemon-peel  improves  the  pie.  Cover  the  pie  with  a  crust. 
Rhubarb  pies  should  be  baked  about  an  hour  in  a  slow 
oven. 


LEMON  TARTS  — Mrs.  A.L.S.  Bush  St. 
Grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  juice  of  one  lemon,  piece 
of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  egg — sugar  to  taste.     Sim- 
mer all  together  till  thick.     Bake  puffs,  and  fill  while 
hot.     Makes  30  tarts. 


ORANGE  PIES  — Mrs.  L.  J.  LarkinSt. 
The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  oranges,  six  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  flour,  IJ  cups  of  milk, 
stir  together  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Mix  the  above 
and  fill  the  plates,  having  a  nice  under-crust.  Beat  the 
whites  of  six  eggs  with  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and 
after  baking  the  pies  pour  the  frosting  over  the  top  and 
set  them  again  in  the  oven  to  brown. 


puDDmes M& 


Pudding  Bags  should  be  made  of  thick,  close 
sheeting  to  exclude  the  air.  Before  using  them, 
they  should  be  wrung  out  in  hot  water,  then  thor- 
oughly floured  on  the  inside.  In  tying,  leave  room 
to  swell.  A  plate  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  pre- 
vents the  bag  from  burning.  Keep  the  pudding 
covered  with  water  and  do  not  let  it  stop  boiling. 
If  necessary,  fill  up  the  pot  with  hot,  but  never 
cold  water. 


.^.^.^.^.^..^.^..^. 


BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING  —  Mrs.  T.  Cal.  St. 
2  quarts  of  milk,  IJ  tea  cups  of  corn  meal.  Put  | 
of  the  milk  on  to  boil,  when  boiling  stir  in  the  corn 
meal,  then  take  it  from  the  fire^  and  add  the  cold  milk 
and  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Sweeten  \vitli  sugar  and 
molasses  to  taste;  add  J  teacup  of  chopped  suet  and  1 
teaspoon  of  ginger.     Bake  slowly,  IJ  hours. 


PLUM  PUDDING  — Mrs.  H. 

1^  pints  of  powdered  crackers,  or  bread  crumbs;  6 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  pints  of  milk,  ^Doured  boiling  on 
the  bread;  3  eggs,  J  cup  of  butter,  1  lb  of  raisins,  1 
Avine-glass  of  wine  or  brandy.  If  you  wish  to  serve 
with  sauce,  use  less  sugar  and  butter. 


PUDDING  SAUCE. 
2  cups  of  sugar,  i  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  one  eggy  all 
well  beaten  together,  add  1  cup  of  boiling  w^ater,  stirr- 
ing gradually.     When  cool,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
•froth. 


PUDDINGS  17 

THE  QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS~Mrs.  S.  Yernon  Place. 
1  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  grated  rind  of  1  lem- 
on, a  piece  of  butter  tlie  size  of  an  egg,  bake  until  done 
but  not  watery,  about  |  of  an  hour.  When  done,  spread 
over  the  top  jelly  or  preserve;  beat  the  whites  to 
a  froth  with  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon  ; 
set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Pour  the  whites  on  the  top 
before  placing  in  the  oven. 

TAPIOCA  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Take  as  many  apples  as  will  set  in  your  dish,  say  7 
good-sized  ones;  core  them,  boil  1  cup  of  tapioca  in  1 
quart  of  water  until  thoroughly  dissolved;  about  one 
hour,  add  ^  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little 
butter  and  nutmeg.  Pour  over  the  apples  when  they 
are  well  cooked,  set  away  to  cool.  Eat  with  sugar  and 
cream  or  sugar  and  butter. 

SNOW  PUDDING  — Nice  for  Luncheon. 

Soak  J  box  of  gelatine  in  ^  pint  of  cold  water,  set  it 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  till  all  dissolved,  add  J  pint  of 
boiling  water  and  just  before  it  hardens,  beat  well  with 
the  whites  of  2  eggs,  1 J  cups  of  sugar  and  a  little  lemon 
extract  or  juice. 

The  custard  for  the  same,  is  made  :  1  pint  of  milk, 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  |  of  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla;  mould  the  gelatin  and  pour  the  custard  around 
it  when  ready  for  the  table. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM  PUDDING— Mrs.  C.  Ellis  St. 

Cover  3  tablespoons  of  tapioca  with  water,  and  let  it 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  boil  it  15  or  20 
minutes  in  one  quart  of  milk,  with  a  little  salt.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  ^nd  add 
to  the  other;  let  it  just  boil,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 


18  PUDDINGS 

cool,  add  the  whites  of  the  egg^,  beaten  to  a  froth,  stirr- 
ed in  and  flavored.     Eaten  cold. 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING~Mrs.  H. 

Boil  1  quart  of  milk.  While  boiling  add  2  ounces  of 
chocolate,  scraped  fine  and  then  remove  from  the  fire. 
While  cooling,  beat  six  eg^s,  reserving  the  whites  of  3. 
Stir  the  eggs  into  the  milk,  add  butter,  the  size  of  a 
nutmeg  and  sugar  to  the  taste.  When  baked,  beat  the 
3  whites  to  a  froth  with  a  little  sugar.  Pour  over  for 
frosting  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 


CUSTARDS,  TO  TURN  OUT— Mrs.  S. 
Mix  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  pint  of 
new  milk,  J  ounce  of  dissolved  isinglass,  sweeten  with 
sugar  and  boil  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens.  Pour  into 
a  dish  and  stir  it  till  a  little  cooler,  then  pour  it  into 
cups,  to  turn  out  when  cold.  Add  flavor  as  you  like  to 
the  eggs. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

IJ  cups  of  sour  milk,  I  spoonful  of  soda,  1  of  molass- 
es, 1  cup  of  sugar,  suet,  raisins,  spices  and  flour  to  make 
a  stiff"  batter.     Steam  3  hours. 


BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

2  quarts  of  milk,  1  pint  of  meal.  Boil  the  milk,  stir 
in  the  meal  gradually.  Take  it  from  the  fire,  add  2  or 
3  eggs,  sugar  and  syrup  to  the  taste,  pretty  sweet.  If 
whey  is  desired,  reserve  a  part  of  the  milk  and  add  it 
cold.    Bake  in  a  well-buttered  dish  2  or  3  hours. 


BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 
Take  one  pint  of  milk  less  than  above,  and  use  4  or 
6  eggs.    Boil  in  a  cloth  2  or  3  hours.    To  be  eaten  with 
butter. 


PUDDINGS  19 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING  —  Mrs.  P. 

3  tablespoons  of  Indian  meal  to  1  quart  of  milk,  sweet- 
en well  with  molasses,  mix  the  meal  and  molasses 
together  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk,  add  1  cup  of 
cold  milk  for  whey. 

PUFF  PUDDING  —  Mrs  B.  Cal.  St. 
1  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  4  eggs.  Bake  20 
minutes.    To  be  eaten  immediately  with  cold  sauce. 

POOR-MAN'S  PUDDING— Mrs.  B.  Cal.  St. 

4  cups  of  flour,  1  do  of  milk,  1  do  of  chopped  suet,  1 
do  of  molasses,  1  do  of  raisins,  citron  and  currants.  If 
you  wish,  J  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water; 
boil  3  hours.     To  be  eaten  with  hot  sauce. 


BOILED-EGG  PUDDING. 
8  eggs,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  of  flour.     Boil  1  hour. 

A  NICE  RICE  PUDDING  —  Mrs.  S. 
1  quart  of  milk,  1  cup  of  rice,  a  little  salt.  Let  them 
boil  until  soft.  Take  it  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  a  small  piece  of  butter;  sweeten  to  the  taste. 
Put  it  into  a  dish,  take  the  whites  and  1  cup  of  sugar; 
beat  well.  Pour  over  the  top,  and  brown  in  the  oven; 
flavor  as  you  like. 

AMHERST  PUDDING  —  Mrs.  T. 
4  cups  of  'flour,  I  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  milk  (sour 
preferable),  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  do  of  chopped 
suet,  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  spice  to  the  taste.     Steam  3 
hours. 

PLAIN,  BUT  NICE  PUDDING. 
1  eg^,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2i  tablespoons  of  melted  but- 
ter, 1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  pint  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of 
cream  of  tartar,  1  of  soda.     Bake  30  minutes.     Eaten 
with  sauce. 


20  PUDDINGS 

SPONGE  PUDDING— Mrs.  D. 

1  cup  of  sifted  flour,  |  cup  of  sugar,  J  cup  of  butter, 
6  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk;  wet  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the 
milk,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  cooking  a  little. 
Then  add  the  butter  and  sugar.  When  cool  add  the 
eggs,  beaten  separately.  Set  the  dish  in  scalding  water 
and  bake  an  hour.  Serve  with  a  cold  or  hot  sauce.  I 
prefer  cold. 

NEW-ENGLAND  CORN  PUDDING- Mrs.  C. 

Take  2  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  well  filled,  but 
young.  Grate  or  pound  the  corn,  add  2  pounded  crack- 
ers, 1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a 
little  salt.  Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 
Serve  with  butter. 

'  BERRY  PUDDING  —  Ibid, 
Make  a  paste  as  for  pies,  but  not  as  short.  Roll  it  out 
on  a  floured  cloth,  lay  it  in  a  large  bowl  and  pour  in  the 
berries.  Close  it  up  carefully,  tie  it  up  and  boil  it  two 
hours.  (A  saucer  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  prevents 
burning).  Serve  with  a  hot  sauce.  Very  nice;  try  it 
with  blackberries. 

GELATINE   PUDDING  —  Mrs.  W. 

One-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine,  J  pint  of  cold  water, 
let  it  stand  an  hour,  add  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water. 
When  dissolved,  add  three  lemons  and  two  cups  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  only 
one.  Strain  into  a  dish  to  cool.  The  custard  from  the 
same  is  made  from  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  1  pint  of 
milk,  one  cup  of  sugar;  make  a  soft  custard  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Just  before  using,  cut  the  jelly  into  squares 
and  place  in  a  glass  dish.  Pour  over  the  custard,  beat 
the  whites  to  a  froth,  with  a  little  sugar,  and  pour  over 
the  top. 


PUDDINGS  21 

PUFFS  —  Mrs.  W.  O'Farrell  St. 
Three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt, 
one  tumbler  of  milk,  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

SUET  PUDDING-  Mrs.  B.  Van  Ness  Ave. 
2  cups  of  suet,  3  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  yeast  powder,  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  a 
little  sugar,  spice  and  fruit.     To  be  eaten  with  a  sauce. 
Boil  three  hours. 

TROY  PUDDING  — Mrs.  F.  Ellis  St. 

One  cup  of  suet,  one  of  molasses,  one  of  milk,  one  of 
raisins,  three  of  flour,  yeast  powder.    Boil  three  hours. 


GAKEIS 


In  making  cake,  accuracy  in  proportioning  the 
ingredients  is  necessary.  The  cake  should  be  put 
into  the  oven  as  soon  as  made.  The  oven  being 
already  hot,  and  ready  for  it.  The  eggs  must  be 
fresh  and  the  butter  good. 

Do  not  beat  the  eggs  or  butter  in  tin,  as  the  cold- 
ness of  the  latter  prevents  the  lightness  of  the  cake. 
To  ascertain  if  the  cake  is  sufficiently  done,  use  a 
straw,  if  it  comes  out  the  least  moist,  let  the  cake 
remain  in  the  oven  longer. 


0-A.ece:h 


POUND  CAKE  — Mrs.  H. 

1  ft)  of  sugar,  J  ft)  of  butter,  10  ounces  of  flour,  8  eggs. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  then  sift  in  the  flour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


SPONGE    CAKE. 
1  ft)  of  sugar,  I  ft)  ^of  flour,  8  eggs.     Beat  the  yolks 
very  light,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  well  together.    Then 
add  the  well-beaten  whites  and  the  other  ingredients. 

PLUM    CAKE. 
1  ft)  of  flour,   I  ft)  of  butter,   |  ft)  currants,  |  ft)  of 
sugar,  1  ft)  of  raisins,  2  ounces  of  citron,  6  eggs,  1  gill 
of  brandy,  1  nutmeg;  cloves,  if  you  like. 


BLACK  CAKE. 

IJ  cups  of  sugar,  1}  do.  of  molasses.  1  large  cup  of 
butter,  5  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs,  2  nutmegs,  1  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  1  do.  of  mace,  1  do.  of  cloves,  1  do.  of  soda, 
2  ft)  of  raisins. 


24  PUDDINGS 

COOKIES— Mrs.  C.   Ellis  St. 
3  cups  of  sugar,  1  of  butter,  §  cup  of  water,  3  eggs, 
2  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder.     Flour  sufficient  to  roll 
out,  quite  soft. 

SUGAR  AND   MOLASSES   COOKY. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  |  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  2 
large  spoons  of  lard,  1  egg,  salt  and  nutmeg,  1  large 
spoon  of  dissolved  soda. 

HUCKLEBERRY   CAKE  (Good). 
1  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  butter,  2  quarts  of  flour, 
with  4  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt,  one  quart 
of  berries.     Mix  with  cold  milk  about  as  stiff  as  pound 
cake,  and  bake  quickly  in  square  tins. 

-     CRULLERS  —  Mrs.  C. 

5  eggs,  ten  spoons  of  sugar,  (tablespoons),  7  of  melted 
butter,  1  teaspoon  even-full  of  dry  soda,  dissolved  in  1 
cup  nearly,  full  of  milk. 

CRULLERS  —  Mrs.   C.  Ellis  St. 
5    eggs,  5  spoons  of  melted  butter,  8   of  sugar,  2  of 
water,  1  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  nutmeg;  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

JUMBLES. 
1  cup  of  butter,  5  cups  of  flour,  2  of  sugar,  4  eggs, 
J  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda. 

TIPSEY  CAKE.  (Prime) 
Cut  in  halves  1  loaf  of  sponge   cake;  place  in   two 
glass  dishes,  stick  it  full  of  blanched  raisins,  quartered. 
Wet  the  cake  with  wine,  drop  jelly  about  it,  then  have 
ready  a  nice  custard  and  pour  over  it. 

DOUGHNUTS  —  Mrs.  C.  Harrison  St. 
1  quart  of  flour,  1  tea-cup  of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of 


PUDDINGS  25 

cream  of  tartar,  1  of  soda,  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of 
a  walnut;  wet  up  with  sweet  milk;  put  the  butter  into 
the  warm  milk, 

COOKIES— Mrs.  0.  Bush  St. 
2  cups  of  sugar,  5  do.  of  fl:)ur,  4  tablespoons  of  milk, 
2  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter,  caraway  seed. 

OINGER  BREA.D  — Mrs.  0, 

-    i  quart  of  flour,  1  pint  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  butter, 
1  do.  of  milk,  2  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 

ELEGANT  PLAIN    CAKE  —  Mrs.  W.B.S.Bush  St. 
Four  eggs,  three  cups  (not  heaped),  of  sugar,  half  cup 
milk,  filled  with  watar,  and  a  little  soda  (not  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonfal),  and  a  fall  tea  spoonful  of  yeast  powder; 
four  level  cups  of  sifted  flour, 

PINT  CAKE.  — Mrs.  0. 

1  pint  of  raised  dough,  2  tei-cups  of  sugar,  1  do.  of 
butter,  3  eggs,  1  teispoon  of  soda,  1  tablespoonful  of 
mace  and  cinnamon  mixed,  1  ft)  of  raisins. 


MOUNTAIN   CAKE  —  Mrs,  B.  Cal.  St 
1  lb  of  sugar,  1  lb  of  flour,  J  lb  of  butter,  6  eggs,  1 
teacup   of  sweet  milk,    3   teaspoons  of  yeast  powder. 
Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

MOLASSES  CAKE  —  Mrs.  E.  Mason  St. 

Two  cups  of  dried  apples,  soaked  over  night, 
chopped  and  boiled  an  hour  in  two  cups  of  New 
O.  molasses  ;  when  cool,  add  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice  and  nutmeg,  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 


26  C  A  K  E  & 

PLAIN   DOUGHNUTS  —  Mrs.  B.  Cal.  St, 
1    cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter.     Allspice  for  flavoring. 


BELMONT    CAKE  —  Mrs,  P.  Bush  Sf . 
4  eggs,  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk^  1  do,  of 
butter,  5  cups  of  floury  1  ib  of  raisins,  boiled  5  minutes 
and  used  cold;  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  1  of  cin- 
namon, 1  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg.     Baked  m  two  loaves.* 

JELLY  CAKE  —  Mrs.  J.  2nd.  St. 
1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  J  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  f 
cup  milky  J  teaspoonful  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  milk; 
1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  mixed  in  the  flour,  a  little 
nutmeg.  Bake  in  shallow  jelly-cake  tins  and  spread 
with  jelly.     This  makes  one  large  cake, 

CUSTARD  CAKE  —  Mrs.  S,  Yernon  Place, 

1  heaped  cup  of  flour,  1  of  sugar,  3. eggs,  1  table 
spoon  of  milk,  IJ  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt. 
Filling  for  the  same ;  1  cup  of  sugar,  |  cup  of  flour,  2 
eggs,  a  pint  of  milk — ^boil  the  milk  as  for  custards,  then 
add  the  other  ingredients,  well  beaten;  while  hot,  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla.    Make  two  cakes,  split  them,  to  fill. 

BLACK  CAKE  — Good. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses^  5  cups  of  flour,  1 
do.  of  butter,  1  of  milk  or  cream,  1  lb  of  raisins,  5  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  of  soda,  J  pound  of  citron,  all  kinds  of  spices. 

COCOANUT  CAKE  —  Mrs.  C. 
1  ib  of  grated  cocoanut,  1  pound  of  sugar,  J  Sb  of  but- 
ter, 6  eggs,  J  ft)  of  flour. 


CAKES  27 

LEMON   CAKE. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  |  do  of  butter,  3  eggs,  beat  the  yolks 
separately,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  of  cream 
tartar,  grated  rind  of  lemon. 

BLACK  CAKE  —  Mrs.  T. 
IJ  cups  of  sugar,  1 J  cups  of  molasses,  1  of  Butter,  5  of 
flour,  4  eggs,.  2  nutmegs,  1  teaspoon  of  mace,  IJ  of  cloves, 
1  of  soda,  2  R)  of  raisins.     (Very  nice) 


MOLASSES  POUND  CAKE  —  Mrs.  T. 
1  cup  of  sugar,  |  of  butter,  4  eggs,  2  cups  of  molasses, 
1  do. of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  in  a  little  water,  1  glass 
of  wine  or   brandy,  1  nutmeg,  5   cups   of  flour,    well 
beaten.     Good. 

FRUIT  CAKE  —  Mrs.  T. 
3  cups  damp  brown  sugar,  4  eggs,  the  white  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  2  cups  of  butter,  beat  to  a  cream,  1  lb 
of  raisins,  J  pound  of  currants,  J  do.  citron,  i  tumbler  of 
whisky,  1  large  spoon  of  soda,  4  cups  of  flour.  Bake 
slowly  and  well,  and  plenty  of  spice. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  of  molasses,  J  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
coffee,  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  saleratus,  dis- 
solved.    Spice  as  you  like. 

QUEENS'  CAKE— Mrs.  T.  California  St. 
3  cups  of  sugar,  4  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  milk,  5  eggs,  3  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder. 

FROSTING  FOR  CAKES— Mrs.  C. 
Allow  for  the  white  of  1  egg,  9  heaping  teaspoons  of 
refined  sugar  and  1  of  nice  Poland  starch,  both  powdered 
and  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve.    Beat  the  white  to  a  stiff 


28  CAKES 

froth,  tlien  stir  in  the  sugar,  gradually,  stirring  constant- 
ly 5  minutes,  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Before  icing, 
dredge  the  cake  with  flour,  and  then  wipe  it  ojff.  Lay 
the  frosting  on  the  cake  with  a  knife;  after  it  is  drawn 
from  the  oven,  smooth  it  over  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to 
dry;  allow  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  for  two  common-sized 
loaves.  The  cake  will  look  better  to  be  iced  twice. 
Put  on  the  first  soon  after  the  cake  is  taken  from  the 
oven.  The  second,  put  on  the  next  day.  Before  cut- 
ting an  iced  cake,  cut  the  frosting  first  by  itself,  by  press- 
ing the  back  of  the  knife  across  the  cake,  to  prevent  the 
breaking  of  the  icing. 

GOLD  CAKE  —  Mrs.  W.  O'Farrell  St. 
IJ  cups  of  sugar,  J  cup  of  butter,  2J  flour,  J  of  milk, 
yolks  of  4  eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  ^  teaspoon   cream 
tartar,  J  teaspoon  of  soda. 


SILVER  CAK'E:  — Ibid. 
The  same  as  the  Gold  Cake,  only  using  the  whites  of 
4  eggs,  instead  of  the  yolks. 

COOKIES  —  Mrs.  T.  2nd.  St. 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  egg, 

1  teaspoonfal  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  tartar;  or,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder,  if  the  milk  is  sweet. 
Spices  to  taste. 

CORNSTARCH   CAKE  — Mrs.  W.    of  Alameda. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  |  of  a  cup  of  butter,  the  whites  of  7 
eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  corn-starch,  1  cup  of  milk, 

2  spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  of  soda,  flavoring. 

PLUM   CAKE— Good. 
^2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  |  cup  of  butter,  J  cup  of  milk, 


CAKES  29 

3  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast  powder, 
cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  3  cups  of  raisins,  piece  of  cit- 
ron and  a  little  brandy. 

CAKE — Mrs.  B.  Van  Ness  Avenue. 
1  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  |  cup  of  butter, 
5  eggs,  a  little  sour  milk  and  soda. 

BRIDE'S   CAKE. 

1  Jb  of  sugar,  6  ounces  of  butter,  |  of  a  pound  of  flour 
whites  of  16  eggs,  well  beaten. 


GINGER  SNAPS— Mrs.  S.  of  Watsonville. 
J  cup  of  brown  sugar,  |  cup  of  molasses,  not  quite  J 
cup  of  Avater,!  ^^p  of  shortening,  1  teaspoonful  saleratus, 
dissolved  in  the  water,  cinnamon,  a  very  little   ginger. 


MOLASSES   GINGERBREAD— Mrs.  W.  Alameda. 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, 1  cup  of  sour  milk,  3  eggs.  4  cups  of  flour,  1 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  tablespoon  of  soda. 


FRUIT  CAKE— Splendid. 
Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter;  wash,  if  salt, 
and  work  to  a  cream.  Then  work  with  one  and  a  half 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  add  fourteen  eggs,  two  at  a  time, 
a  wine  glass  of  good  brandy,  mace,  nutmeg,  cloves,  all- 
spice and  cinnamon.  Then  work  IJ  pounds  of  flour  in 
as  light  as  possible,  and  then  fruit.  Two  pounds  of  cur- 
rants, one  pound  of  citron,  three  pounds  of  seeded  rais- 
ins. Bake  three  or  four  hours,  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. 

RAILROAD    CAKE. 

IJ  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  J  cup  of  sour-milk, 
2  eggs,  small  piece  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar,  and  J  of  soda,  lemon. 


30  CAKES 

QUEENS'  CAKE— Mrs.  M.  Mason  St. 
One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  scant;  one- 
half  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  two  tea-spoons  of  yeast 
powder,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  spice  as  you  please. 

BARNARD  CAKE— Mrs.  F.  Ellis  St. 
One  cup  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar,  four  of 
flour,  one  of  milk,  four  eggs,  yeast  powder. 


CREAM  CAKES— Mrs.  F.  Ellis  St. 
1  cup  sugar,  1|  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  2  spoonfuls  cold 
water,  1  spoonful   yeast  powder. 

CREAM. 

1  pt.  milk,  2  spoonfuls  corn  starch,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of 
sugar,  flavoring. 

CUP  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs 
i  cup  of  milk,  a  little  soda. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 
4  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,   2  cups  of  sugar,  even  full ; 
beat  separately  the  whites  and  the  yolks,  then  beat 
together,  then  stir  in  the  flour  and  without  delay  put  it 
into  the  oven;  well  beaten  before  adding  the  flour 

CALICO  CAKE  —  Mrs.  O. 
3  cups  of  sugar,  IJ  butter,  6  eggs,  |  of  milk,  J  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  1  of  cream  of  tartar,  4  cups  of  flour. 
Make  the  dark  part  Avitli  brown  sugar.  1  teaspoon  each 
of  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  1  nutmeg,  J  fb  of  currants . 
Make  the  light  part  with  white  sugar  and  the  whites  of 
the  eggs.  When  put  into  the  pans,  put  1  spoonful  of 
the  dark,  and  1  of  light,  alternately. 


'^1  €  A  K  E  S 

MOLASSES  CAKE, 
3  cups  of  molasses.,  2  teaspoons  of  soda,  1  cup  of 
butter,  1  do.  of  water,  4  eggs,  6  eups  of  flour. 

SALT-PORK    CAKE— Mrs.  H. 

1  pound  of  pork,  chopped  very  fine,  1  cup  of  warm 
i:v^ater,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of 
soda,  4  eggs,  spice,  raisins  and  citron. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE— Mrs.  A.L,S.  Busli  St, 

CAKE. 

3  cups  of  flour,  2  of  sugar,  |  eup  of  T3utter,  IJ  cups 
of  milk,  3  eggs,  I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  J  of  soda, 

CREAM  FOR  THE  ABOVE. 

Orate  3  bars  of  chocolate,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  corn- 
starcli  or  floui*,  1  eup  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste;  set  it 
on  the  stove  and  stir  till  thick,  and  spread  between  the 
cake.     Bake  the  cake  in  thin  cake  pans. 

CRULLERS— Mrs.  S.  Nantucket. 
3  eggs,  6  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  of  melted  butter,  2  of 
milk,  yeast  powder. 


FLUHMEEY  AND  PEESEEVES 


Porcelain  Kettles  should  be  used  for  preserves, 
to  the  exclusion  of  ail  others,  and  always  a  wooden 
spoon-  It  is  not  economy  to  use  too  sparingly  of 
sugar,  as  jellies  will  not  congeal  without  sufficient 
<sugar,  and  also  when  preserves  commence  to  spoil 
they  cannot  be  rendered  eatable.  Small  jars  are 
better  than  large  ones,  as  frequent  exposure  to  the 
air  will  spoil  the  fruit.  After  pouring  your  pre 
serves  into  your  jars,  put  several  layers  of  paper 
over  the  top,  pouring  over  a  little  brandy. 


32  PLUMMERY  AND  PRESERVES. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  and  wash  the  currants,  drain  on  a  sieve;  squeeze 

out  the  juice  and  strain  it.     To  a  quart  of  juice,  add  a 

good  qiiart  of  sugar;  boil  smartly  20  minutes,  skimming 

carefully.     Let  the  juice  boil  before  adding  the  sugar. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Boil  the  fruit  to  a  perfect  jam;  take  an  eqrcul  weight 
of  sugar,  boil  down  thick,  add  cassia  buds,  pepper,  cloves 
and  allspice;  1  teaspoonful  to  every  pound  and  boil  a 
few  minutes  longer. 

TIN  COOKED  CURRANT  JELLY— Mrs.  S. 

Squeeze  the  currants  through  a  linen  bag.  To  a  pint 
of  juice,  add  1  pound  of  white  crushed  sugar.  Beat  it 
half-an-hour  with  a  wooden  spoon,  until  no  grains  of 
sugar  are  found  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Skim  and 
put  into  glasses. 

PINE-APPLE   MARMALADE. 

Pare  the  fruit  and  grate  fine.  To  1  pound  of  fruit  put 
1  pound  of  sugar.  Let  it  stand  a  night.  Boil  20  min- 
utes, skimming  carefully. 

APPLE   JELLY. 

Core  and  quarter  (not  pare)  tart  apples.  Cook  in  a 
little  more  water  than  will  cover  them  till  well  reduced. 
Strain,  acid  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  juice,  bail  20 
minutes  or  half-an-hour,  straining  carefully.  Slices  of 
lemon  and  a  little  Jamaica  ginger  may  be  cooked  with 

the  apples. 

WINE   JELLY. 

1  package  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  }  pint  of  cold 
water,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  10  large  spoons  of  sugar, 
1  coffee-cup  of  wnne,  then  pour  three  pints  of  boiling 
water  to  it;  strain  through  a  cloth  and  let  it  cool.  To 
be  made  the  day  before  you  wish  to  use  it. 

SPANISH  CREAM— Mrs.  P.  New  Bedford. 

Dissolve  1  box  of  gelatine  in  water,  sufficient  to  cover 
it;  boil  3  pints  of  milk;  take  it  from  the  fire  and  add  the 


FLUMMERY  AND   PRESERVES.  33 

gelatine,  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  9  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
beaten  together,  3  wine-glasses  of  wine  and  a  little 
vanilla  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth; 
stir  well  and  put  in  mould.  Put  the  gelatine  in  a  pan 
on  the  stove  and  let  it  dissolve  slowly. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  — Mrs.  A.L.S.  Bush  St. 

5  eggs,  yolks,  beaten  with  1  large  cup  of  sugar  and 
juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons.  Set  your  tin  pail,  in  which 
is  the  above  mixture,  into  a  kettle  of  hot  water  on  the 
stove  and  stir  till  it  bubbles;  then  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into  the  mass  and  dip 
into  custard  cups.  This  Avill  make  16  custards. 
ORANGE  CUSTARD— Mrs.  A.L.S.  Bush  St. 

5  eggs  beaten  with  2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  2  oranges 
rind  of  1  orange,  2  cups  of  milk,  fill  the  cups;  set  in  a 
pan  of  water  and  bake  half-an-hour. 

BOILED  CUP  CUSTARD  —  Mrs.  S. 

1  qaurt  of  milk;  when  boiling,  add  the  yolks  of  6  eggs, 
whites  of  four  with  6  spoons  of  sugar.  Scald  together, 
then  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  until  very  light;  pour 
boiling  water  over  them  to  cook  them,  and  then  cover 

the  custard. 

FLOATING  ISLANDS. 
The  whites  of  four  eggs,  (5  tablespoonfuls  of  fruit  jelly, 
beaten  to  a  froth.     Boil  the  yolks  in  one  quart  of  milk, 
sweeten  to  the  taste,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
in  J  teacup  of  boiling  water.     Let  it  boil  up  and  pour 
into  cups.     Drop  on  each  a  little  of  the  froth. 
ICE  CREAM. 
1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  J  pound  of  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch.     Mix  the  starch  with  a  little 
milk,  boil  the  quart  and  while  boiling  stir  in  the  starch, 
eggs  and  sugar,  well  beaten  together.  Cool  before  freez- 
ing. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

1  pint  of  cream  well  whipped,  6  ounces  of  powdered 


34  FLTJMMEIIY  AND  PRESERVES 

sugar,  juices  of  2  lemons,  two  glasses  of  wine,  mix,  add 
another  pint  of  cream,  stir  thoroughly.  Boil  2  ounces 
of  isinglass  with  4  cups  of  water,  till  reduced  one-half. 
When  luke-warm,  stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients,  and 
put  into  a  glass  dish  to  harden.     Flavoring  may  be 

used  for  wine. 

SUGAR  CANDY. 

1  quart  of  sugar,  J  pint  of  water.  When  boiling  add 
1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar;  boil  till  a  piece  rattles 
when  droj)ped  into  cold  water.  Flavor  and  pour  into 
pans  to  cool,  before  pulling. 

CAROMELS. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  of  molasses,  |  pound  of  chocolate, 
butter  the  size  of  a.  nutmeg,  a  little  milk.  Boil  20  min- 
utes.    Pour  into  pans  and  cut  in  squares. 

CHOCOLATE   BLANC  MANGE. 

One-half  an  ounce  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  half  a 
pint  of  water.  One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  chocolate  dis- 
solved in  hot  water;  three  pints  of  milk,  three  eggs, 
Boil  the  milk  and  chocolate  together,  stir  in  the  gelatine- 
cook  a  little  while;  cool  some  little  time,  add  the  eggs, 

and  mould. 

PLUM  BROTH. 

Boil  one  pound  of  raisins  gently  in  plenty  of  water, 
(about  four  quarts),  for  two  hours,  with  one  great  spoon- 
ful of  Indian  meal,  stirred  in  when  it  begins  to  boil. 
Make  a  thickening  of  flour  and  water,  grate  in  part  of  a 
nutmeg,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Add  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  a  little  wine,  if  preferred. 

Mrs.    D's   TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

One  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Boil  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  pail  set  in  hot  water.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
salt  into  the  tapioca,  and  stir  into  the  milk  and  boil  un- 
til it  thickens.     Turn  it  into  a  dish  and  stir  into  it  the 


FLUMMERY  AND  PRESERVES  35 

whites  of  three  eggs,  and  a  little  flavoring.    Set  it  away 
to  cool  and  then  it  is  ready  for  the  table. 

CORN  STARCH  MERINGUES— Mrs.  T.  Cal.  St. 
Three  pints  of  milk,  four  eggs,  three  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  corn-starch.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  re- 
serving a  little  cold  to  wet  up  the  corn-starch  with.  Beat 
the  yolks  and  a  coffee  cap  of  sugar  together,  and  when 
the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  and  eggs.  Let  it 
boil  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  it  into  a  dish;  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  pulverized  sugar,  spread  it  on  the  top 
and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

ISINGLASS  BLANC  MANGE. 

Two  ounces  of  isinglass,  three  pints  of  milk,  one-half 
pound  sugar,  lemon.     Boil  five  minutes. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  Russian  isinglass  in  a  cup  of  new 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  and  one  pound 
sugar  together;  whip  to  a  froth  one  pint  of  cream;  beat 
whites  of  twelve  eggs;  strain  isinglass  into  yolks,  add 
cream,  then  whites;  beat  all  together.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla; set  to  cool.  Line  dish  with  sponge  cake;  put  in 
the  cream;   set  to  cool  six  hours. 

SUGAR   KISSES  —  Mrs.  C.  Ellis  St. 

The  whites  of  two   eggs,  one-half  pound   of   sugar, 

lemon  or  vanilla.     Drop  on  buttered  Paper,  and  bake  a 

lio-ht  brown. 

COCOANUT    KISSES. 

One  cup  of  sugar  to  two  of  grated  cocoanut;    one 

tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  moisten  with  enough  white  of 

egg  to  make  it  stiff.     Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE  —  Mrs.  T.  Second  St. 
Wash  the  fruit  very  clean;   weigh.      Take  half  the 
fruit  and  grate,  the  other  half,  peel.     Put  the  parings 


36  FLUMMERY  AND  PEESERVES 

into  boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender.  In  the  mena- 
time  prepare  the  oranges.  All  you  want  is  tke  pulp  and 
juice;  the  cores,  seeds  and  all  skinny  parts  must  be  re- 
moved. Make  a  syrup,  (a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit);  clarify  with  white  of  an  egg.  Into  this  put 
the  parings,  which,  meanwliile,  with  scissors  you  have 
cut  in  narrow  strips,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
grated  rind,  pulp  and  juice  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 


Valuable  Miscellaneous  Recipes 

These  have  been  given  to  ns  by  our  friends,  with 
the  request  that  we  insert  them;  as  they  are  origin- 
al and  good,  we  do  so  with  much  pleasure. 


TEA. 

Be  sure  that  the  water  boils.  Scald  the  pot,  and  put  in 
a  tea-spoonful  for  each  person.  Upon  green  tea,  pour  a 
little  water,  and  allow  it  to  stand  two  or  three  minutes 
where  it  will  keep  hot;  then  fill  the  pot  from  the  tea- 
kettle. Green  tea  should  never  be  boiled,  and  it  is 
rendered  dead  by  being  steeped  long. 

Of  black  tea  the  same  measure  is  used;  the  pot  being 
filled  up  at  first,  and  set  immediately  upon  coals  or  a 
stove,  just  long  enough  to  boil  it.  Water  should  be 
added  to  the  tea-pot  from  the  tea-kettle;  never  fi-om 
the  water-pot,  as  in  that  case  it  cannot  be  boiling  hot. 
Black  and  green  tea  are  good  mixed. 
COFFEE. 

Put  a  large  coffee-cupful  into  a  pot  that  will  hold  three 
pints  of  water;  add  the  white  of  an  egg,  or  a  few  shav- 
ings of  isinglasS;  or  a  well  cleansed  and  ^ried  bit  of  fi^h 


VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.  37 

skin  of  the  size  of  a  ten  cent  piece.  Pour  upon  it  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  it  five  or  six  minutes.  Then  pour  a 
gill  from  the  spout,  in  order  to  remove  it,  and  pour  it 
back  into  the  pot.  Let  it  stand  eight  or  ten  minutes, 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil;  boiling  coffee  a 
great  while  makes  it  strong,  but  not  so  lively  or  agreea- 
ble. If  you  have  no  cream,  boil  a  sauce-pan  of  milk, 
and  after  pouring  it  into  the  pitcher,  stir  it  now  and 
then,  till  the  breakfast  is  ready,  that  the  cream  may  not 
separate  from  the  milk.  Make  coffee  stronger  or  weak- 
er, as  you  prefer,  by  using  a  larger  or  smaller  measure 

of  ground  coffee. 

COFFEE  MILK. 

Put  a  dessert-spoonful  of  ground  coffee  into  a  pint  of 
milk;  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  a  shaving  or  two 
of  isinglass;  then  let  it  stand  ten  minutes  and  pour  it 
off. 

COMMON  MODE  OF  MAKING  CHOCOLATE. 

Shave  fine  an  inch  of  a  cake  of  chocolate;  pour  on  it  a 
quart  of  boiling  water;  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  add  milk 
in  such  proportion  as  you  like,  and  boil  it  up  again. 

COCOA. 

Boil  two  large  spoonfuls  of  ground  cocoa  in  a  quart  of 
water  half  an  hour;  skim  off  the  oil,  pour  in  three  gills 
of  milk,  and  boil  it  up  again.  It  is  the  best  way  to 
make  it  the  day  before  it  is  used,  as  the  oily  substance 
can  be  more  perfectly  removed  when  the  cocoa  is  cold. 

SHELLS. 
Put  a  heaping  teacupful  to  a  quart  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  them  a  great  while.  Half  an  hour  will  do,  but  two 
or  three  hours  is  far  better.  Scald  milk  as  for  coffee. 
If  there  is  not  time  to  boil  shells  long  enough  before 
breakfast,  it  is  well  to  soak  them  over  night  and  boil 
them  in  the  same  water  in  the  morning. 


(MRS.  RS.  DIRECTIONS.) 

Three  pounds  of  bass,  or  any  white  fish;  boil  till 
tender;  then  remove  the  bones;  mince  it  fine; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  juice  and  part  of  the  rind 
of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  wine^  if  you  choose.  Take 
nearly  one  quart  of  milk  and  slice  two  onions  into 
it,  let  it  boil  until  the  onions  are  quite  soft.  Eub 
to  a  cream  two  large  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  nearly 
one- half  pound  of  butter,  turn  the  boiling  milk 
through  a  sieve  upon  it ;  boil  again,  taking  care  to 
stir  it  so  that  it  will  not  get  into  lumps.  Grate  a 
loaf  of  bread  (small  baker's  loaf).  Take  the  plat- 
ter, it  is  to  be  sent  to  the  table  on,  and  put  first  a 
layer  of  dressing  upon  the  dish,  then  fish,  repeating 
until  the  dish  is  filled  as  full  as  you  wish,  making 
the  top  dressing.  Then  put  the  crumbs  of  bread 
smoothly  on  the  top,  forming  an  oval  in  the  center- 

Wipe  the  edge  of  the  platter  so  that  nothing 
shall  brown  or  discolor  it.  Fill  a  bread  pan  with 
water,  put  the  platter  on  two  or  three  muffin  rings. 
Set  it  into  the  oven,  and  let  it  remain  until  it  is  a 
nice  brown  color,  say  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Then  place  the  platter  on  another  and  send  it  to 
the  table,  garnished  with  lemon  and  parsley  around 
the  dish. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

Cut  into  little  piece3,4  or  5  slices  of  fat  salt  pork;  fry 
out  the  fat;  put  in  1  or  2  onions,  chopiDed  fine,  and  fry 
with  the  pork  till  done  brown.  Cut  up  the  fish  in  small 
pieces,  put  into  the  boiler  with  considerable  water  aii4 


VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  IlECIPES  39 

boil  about  twenty  miimtes.  Thicken  with  flour  and 
Avater,  add  a  teacup  of  milk;  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per to  the  taste, 

CHICKEN   CHOWDER. 
Boil  the  chickens  till  tender,  then  put  in  the  pork 
and  onions,  thickening  and  seasoning  as  above. 

STRIPED   BASS, 

Disliked  by  many,  as  usually  cooked,  would  be  more 
generally  approved,  if  cooked  long  enough.  Three 
hours  are  required  to  boil  or  bake  a  large  bass. 


^' 


'WcOOKlQAlif^^^^^ 


^(  FROM  NANTUCKET ) 

Tie  up  the  brains  in  muslin,  with  sweet  herbs  ; 
put  them  into  the  pot  with  the  head  and  the  haslet, 
without  the  liver,  and  boil  two  hours,  keeping  it 
more  than  covered  with  water.  Put  in  the  liver 
for  the  last  hour.  When  nearly  done,  take  up  the 
brains  and  part  of  the  lights,  chop  them  up  with  a 
hard-boiled  egg,  add  a  little  butter,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  add  a  Uttle  of  the  broth,  strew  in  a 
little  flour  and  stew  it  up  a  little  to  make  a  nice 
sauce.  Take  up  the  rest  of  the  meat,  clean  it  from 
bones,  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  spread  over  the  sauce. 
Thicken  and  season  the  water  for  broth,  in  which 
an  onion  and  a  little  rice  have  been  boiled. 
CHICKEN    SALAD  —  Mrs.  K. 

Boil  the  chicken  until  it  will  drop  to  pieces.  Tear  it 
up  into  little  pieces.  Chop  some  lettuce  and  celery 
together,  and  mix  with  the  chicken.  Boil  the  water 
until  it  is  thick,  and  pour  it  over  the  whole.  Use  salad 
dressing  and  pour  over  it. 


40  VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 

CHICKEN  SALAD  —Mrs.  E.  Mason  St. 
Prepare  two  chickens  with  salad  and  celery  to  taste, 
and  cover  with  sliced  boiled  eggs.  Take  a  cup  of  vin- 
egar (not  too  strong),  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  and  heat,  boiling  hot.  Beat  four 
eggs,  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  mustard,  add  the  boiling  vinegar,  etc.  and  mix,  and 
pour  over  the  chicken  while  warm. 

ITALIAN  CHICKEN   SALAD  —  Mrs.  H. 

Make  a  dressing  in  the  proportion  of  the  yolks  of 
three  liard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  fine,  one  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  one  of  mustard  seed,  one  of  Cayenne  pepper,  one 
of  white  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and  two 
tablespooufuls  of  vinegar.  Simmer  this  dressing  over 
the  fire,  but  don't  let  it  boil.  Stir  constantly  while  over 
the  fire.  Then  take  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  white 
meat  of  cold  chicken  for  this  quantity  of  dressing.  Pull 
the  white  meat  into  small  flakes,  pile  it  up  in  a  dish, 
and  pour  the  dressing  on  it.  Take  two  heads  of  lettuce, 
cut  them  up  and  arrange  in  a  heap  around  the  chicken, 
heaped  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  on  the  top  of 
this  ridge,  place  the  whites  of  eggs,  cut  in  rings  and 
laid  in  the  form  of  a  chain.  A  portion  of  the  lettuce 
to  be  helped  with  each  plate  of  chicken. 

TOMATO   CATSUP  —  Mrs.  E.  Mason  St. 

Two  gallons  of  tomatoes,  skinned,  boiled  and  strained. 
One  quart  of  vinegar,  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  IJ 
tablespoonfuls  of  red  pepper,  2J  tablespoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  IJ  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice,  1  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard.      Boil  4  hours. 

PICKLED   QUINCE. 

Halve,  core  and  pare  the  fruit;  add  water  enough  to 
cook  them;  when  soft,  take  out  with  a  fork  and  drain. 
Take  half  the  weight  of   sugar,  put  into  the  water  and 


VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES  41 

boil  for  syrup.  Scald  one  quart  of  vinegar  Avitli  two 
ounces  of  cloves,  add  the  s^^rup  and  pour  all,  hot,  over 
the  quinces. 

PRESERVED   GREEN   TOMATOES. 

Wash  and  weigh  the  tomatoes,  cover  >Yith  water  and 
boil  until  broken.  Turn  away  the  water.  To  every 
pound  of  fruit,  take  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar; 
add  a  very  little  water  and  boil  until  very  thick.  Squeeze 
the  juice  of  lemons  into  it,  boil  the  peel  till  soft,  and 
slice  that  in;  add  preserved  ginger  root,  or  a  little  gin- 
ger tied  in  muslin. 

PICKLED   TOMATOES. 

Slice  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  over  them 
a  cup  of  salt  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Drain  off 
the  liquid,  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cloves,  whole;  two  of  allspice,  two  of  cinnamon,  eight 
green  peppers,  chopped  fine;  and,  if  you  like,  two  dozen 
onions,  and  chopped  cabbage.  Cover  with  strong  vin- 
egar; boil  fifteen  minutes,  cover  tightly  to  put  away. 


^^©§  To  Kemove  Skins  from  Pea^^^^^    g)@^ 

FOR   PRESErtVING  OR  CANNIXG. 

To  two  quarts  of  wood  ashes,  add  fi^ur  quarts  of 
soft  water,  place  in  an  iron  pot.  When  boiling 
throw  in  a  dozen  peaches ;  take  them  out  immedi- 
ately and  put  them  into  cold  water,  when  the  skin 
will  slip  oflf  without  any  trouble.  Put  the  peaches 
into  another  pan  of  cold  water,  remove  any  bits  of 
skin  from  the  ends  with  a  silver  knife.  Split  the 
peaches,  remove  the  pit,  and  they  are  ready  for  the 
kettle. 


42  VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 

CHILE  SAUCE  — Mrs.  A.L.S.  Bush  St. 
12  large  tomatoes,  pared,  2  large  onions,  4  long  green 
peppers,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
2  cups  vinegar.  The  tomatoes  should  be  ripe.  Chop 
onions  and  peppers  fine  and  put  all  together  in  a  kettle, 
and  let  them  simmer  about  two  hours. 

DEVILLED  CRAB  —  Mrs.  E.  Geary  St. 
Take  two  large-sized  crabs,  boil  them  about  twenty 
minutes,  remove  the  shell,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  cracker,  |  of  a  teaspoon  of  Cayenne  pepper, 
J  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  a  little  mustard,  J  of 
an  onion,  mince  very  fine,  add  milk  to  make  it  very 
moist.  Put  it  in  earthen  dishes,  sift  over  the  top  pow- 
dered cracker,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Some  prefer 
to  bake  it  in  the  shell.  They  must  be  scraped  before 
using. 

SCOLLOPED  OYSTERS  — J&id 

Lay  oysters  on  the  bottom  of  your  dish,  cover  them 
with  powdered  and  sifted  cracker,  a  little  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little  milk,  also  a  little  of  the 
liquid  of  the  oysters;  another  layer  of  the  oysters,  and 
so  alternating,  until  you  have  used  all  your  oysters, 
covering  the  whole  by  sifting  on  the  powdered  cracker. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

A   LEG   OF   LAMB,  FOR   LUNCHEON. 

MRS.  W.  PACIFIC  ST. 

Boil  a  leg  of  lamb  in  a  very  little  water;  with  salt  and 
pepper.  When  well  cooked,  make  a  dressing  of  one  egg, 
sifted  cracker,'a  small  piece  of  butter,  spread  it  over  the 
meat  and  brown  it  in  the  oven. 


ITK  AST 


(  MRS.  S.  BOSTON  ) 

Boil  five  or  six  potatoes,  and  mash;  mix  one  cof- 
fee-cup of  flour,  a  teacup  of  sugar,  little  salt,  to  a 


VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES  43 

thick  batter,  with  cold  water ;  mix  in  potatoes,  and 
add  kike-warm  water  enough  to  make  the  right  con- 
sistency. Rub  the  whole  through  the  sieve.  When 
hike-warm,  add  one-half  teacup  of  yeast. 

SALAD  DRESSING  —  Mrs.  A.W.  New  York. 

Rub  the  bottom  of  the  plate  with  garlic;  yolks  of  two 
raw  eggs,  stir  stiff  with  mustard;  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  tablespooiifuls  of  vinegar,  oil  to  taste;  stir  the 
whole,  alternating  with  the  oil  and  vinegar  for  about 
fifteen  minutes. 

SCRAMBLED    EGGS. 

Two  gTeat  spoonfuls  of  milk,  put  into  a  stew-pan. 
When  ready  to  boil,  add  six  eggs,  well-beaten.  When 
nearly  done,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt. 
Stir  quickly  all  the  time. 

FRIED    OYSTERS. 

Beat  2  eggs,  and  put  into  them  a  pounded  cracker. 
Dip  into  the  eggs  the  oysters,  separately,  and  then  fry 
them  until  they  are  brown. 


m^FM WMM,^ 

(  MRS.  C.  LAGUNA  ST.) 


To  every  gallon  of  juice,  two  pounds  of  white 
sugar  and  one  quart  of  water ;  strain,  and  put  in 
demi-john  or  keg  ;  fill  up  every  morning,  as  it  fer- 
ments and  runs  out,  and  in  the  course  of  ten  days, 
or  two  weeks,  cork  tight  and  cement.  Place  in  a 
cool  cellar,  and  in  the  course  of  ten  or  twelve 
months  will  be  fit  for  use. 


^  K@li  MOCSG 


-(  MRS.  T.  2ud.  ST.)- 


Six  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk,  ^  pint  brandy,  six 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  (use  judgment  however);  beat 


44  VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 

the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  beat  the  sugar 
into  the  yolks.     Beat  all  very  light. 


^^  CUM  FO?- ?OISC)]Srj)AK 

(  MRS,  A.L.S.  BUSH  ST.) 

Dissolve  1  ounce  of  gum-shellac  in  6  ounces  of 
sulphuric  ether;  cork  tightly  in  a  bottle.  Bathe 
the  surface,  where  the  irritation  or  eruption  appears, 
with  cold  water  and  wipe  dry,  then  apply  the  above 
solution.  The  ether  will  evaporate  in  one  minute, 
leaving  an  elastic  coating  of  gum,  completely  im- 
pervious to  the  air.  In  about  two  minutes  the  most 
distressing  case  of  oak  poison  can  be  relieved  entire- 
ly of  all  unpleasant  sensations.  As  the  coating 
cracks  or  peels  off,  apply  more  of  the  solution,  and 
in  twenty-four  hours  the  case  of  indescribable  suf- 
fering is  completely  healed. 


TERRAFIM 


(  MliS.  T.  SECOND  ST.) 

Three  or  four  are  plenty  for  eight  or  ten  persons. 
Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  into  which  you 
have  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  for  each  terrapin. 
Wash  the  live  terrapin  in  two  or  three  waters,  till 
they  are  perfectly  clean.  Throw  in  the  boiling  water 
and  cook  till  so  tender  that  you  can  easily  pull  off 
a  leg.  Take  them  out;  pull  off  the  top  shell,  remove 
the  sand  bag  and  gall  (very  carefully).  Cut  up  all 
the  rest  into  small  pieces,  keeping  all  to  cook  except 
the  skinny  portions  and  the  intestines.  Put  in  a  stew 
pan,  with  cooking  sherry  (a  small  tumbler  full  to  each 


VALUABLE  MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES  45 

terrapin).    To  every  terrapin,  allow  two  ounces  of 

butter  cut  in  pieces,  and  rolled  in  flour.    Season 

with  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  black  pepper.  Let 

this  all  come  to    a    boil,  then  just  before  serving? 

beat  up  the  yolks  of  as  many   eggs  as  you  have 

terrapin,  and  stir  in. 

♦-•-• — . 

5  PRESERVE  SEA^^ 

The  color  of  dried  sea- weeds  may  be  preserved  by 
brushing  them  carefully  with  the  following  solution. 
In  two-thirds  of  a  small  phial  of  turpentine,  dissolve 
two  or  three  small  lumps  of  Gum  Mastic. 

sPRiisra    _A.]srD    sxjm:m:er 


KEANE,  O'CONNOR  &  00. 

Have  just  received  a  complete  assortment  of 

HEW  my  0005$, 

Specially  imported  for  this  season's  trade. 

IN  THE 

Silk  &  Fancy  Dress  Departments, 

"Will  be  found  a  very  elegant  assortment  of  entirely 

NEW      MATERIALS. 

A  VISIT  IS  RESPECTFULLY  INVITED. 

107,   109  &   III    KEARNY    STREET. 


BRUCE  S  PRINT. 


yVlAR^  StACOM, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in 

No.  8  Montgomery  Street,  ZM  MMCISM. 

Always  on  hand,  the  latest  Style  of 

Hats,    !Boia.nets    and.    Flo-vs^ers. 

All  Kmm  OP  FEATHERa,  IAGE0,  $:iK,  $ATm  AND  VEIVET  RtBBON0. 

Latest  Style  of  Goods  received  by  every  Steamer. 
Straw  Bonnets  Cleaned  and  Pressed.      Bonnet  Frames  of  the  Latest  Shape. 


Shii*te  Made  to  Oi?de2»ji 

AT    15    NEW    MONTG-OMERY    STREET 

Grand  Hotel  Building,        -        ©^K)  [^BAKl©]©©©^ 

Is  prepared  to  make  Ge^itletnen  and  Boys'  Shirts,  Collars  and  Flannels 
to  order  at  Fair  living  prices. 

Her  xoork  is  a  better  recommendation  than  words;  she  tcould  therefore 
invite  heads  of  families  atid  all  tvho  wish  to  loear  well-made  and  good 
fitting  shirts,  etc.,  to  call  and  examine  samples  and  prices  before  pur- 
chasing elseichere. 

All  work  tnade  to  give  satisfactioti  before  leaving  the  store.    Repairitig 
done. 
No  -work  done  for  other  establishments. 

The  attention  of  gentlemen  is  iavited  to  the  new  style  of  evening 
dress  shirts. 
An  assortment  of  Gentlemen-s  Imported  Furnishing  Goods,  the 
best  in  market. 

15  NEW    MONTG-OMERY   STREET. 


Ijiadies''    Depository^ 

Nc.  15  NEW  MONTGOMERY  ST. 

Grand  Hotel,  -  -  ©z^KI  [F[^;^KI©[]©©©p 

lAOmS'  AND  CHtlOREN'S  UNDERCARMENTS 

Constantly  on  Hand  and  Made  to  Order. 

J^LAIN   AND  j^ANCY  j^EEDLEWORK    AND  ^MBROIDERY, 

Done  with  Neatness  and  Dispatch,  at  Reasonable  Rates. 
je®*"Wedding  Trosseaus  and  Infants'  V^ardrobes  got  up  in  elegant  Designs. -"©gl 
The  Patronage     of    the   benevolent   is   solicited. 

Bruce's  Printing  House,  Sac.  below  Montgomery. 


FOR  THE  VERY  BEST 

C3V-0    "I"0 

BEADLET  &  EULOFSON. 

Gallery  with  an   ELEVATOR. 

429  Montgomery  St.  -         iAA  IFlBzSiKl©llS©©= 

PIRST    PREMIUM   AND   SIL- 

1}  ver  Medal  awarded  at  Mechanics'  and  State 
Fairs,  1871,  for  best  Wax  Work.  Lessons  given 
in  the  above  in  all  its  branches.     Also,  natural 
flowers  perfectly  preserved  by 
MRS.  A.  O.  COOK,  304  Mason  Bt  n'r  OTarrell 


f    I 


ats, 


jftRCHITECT, 
315   MONTGOMERY   STREET, 
Room  No.  I.  Second  Floor, 
San   Francisco. 


TrrcoMB  St,  Williams, 

i 

DIAMONDS,  JEWELRY, 
StUVEB  A«0  SltVEn-PlATEO  WARE, 

240  Montgomery,  S.  E.  Cor.  Pine,  Up  Stairs. 

tV^A,.  SAH  FRAHCJSCO. 

Agents  for  the  HOWARD,   ELGIN  and  WALTHAM  Watches. 


Brace's  Printing  House,  Sacramento  Street, 
below  Montgomery. 


iSOLOMON   TESMORE,! 

DEALER  IN 

Af^O  ALL  KiSyOS  OF  SHELLFISH, 

Stalls  Nos.  57,  58  and  59  Oalifornia  Market, 

fl@-ENTRANCE  ON  PINE  STREET,  -  ©Z^[it][?K^K]©a©©@a 

rublic  or  Private  Parties.  Families,  Hotels  and  Restaurants  supplied 

at  SHORT  NOTICE.    Fresh  Baltimore  and  i  rauspLvnted  Oysters  and 

Salad  Dressmg.  the  finest  in  the  Market.     Oysters  cooked  and 

served  to  order.     LA-DIKS'  and  OENTLG.\IE\''S   Oyster 

Room  open  from  6  a.  m.  until  Midnight. 


T.  H.  HATCH  &  GO. 

<3-:EixrE::E?.-A-Xji 

COMMISSION  MEHCHilNTS 

FOR     THE     SALE     OF 

320    FRONT   STREET, 

Fresh  Butter  in  Rolls  and  Firkins,  Cheese  from  the  best  Dairies, 

Bacon  and  Hams,  Lard,  Cranberries,  Eastern  Butter 

cheese,  Eggs  and  Honey. 


For  Finely  Flavored  Sausages,  Hams, 
Bacon,  etc..  all  made  of  the  best  grain  fed 
pork,  go  to  K  F.  Bunker's  Stall, 74  and  75 
California  Market.  Mr.  Bunker's  club 
sausages,  for  flavor  and  delicacy,  equal 
any  ever  made  east  of  the  Sierras,  and  he 
cuts  up  nothing  but  first-class  meats. 

bruck's  print 


SEWING  MACHINE  SALES  for  1870. 


THE  SINGER  STILL  TRIUMPHANT ! 


Ill  1869  we  sold,  as  our  readers  will  remember, 
86,781  Machines;  but  we  sold  last  year  (1870), 
127,833  (one  hundred  and  twenty-seven  thou- 
sand, eight  hundred  and  thirty -three)  machines  I 
showing  an  excess  beyond  the  sales  of  1869,  of 
over  forty  thousand,  and,  as  shown  by  the  table 
below,  over  forty-four  thousand  machines  more 
than  any  other  company. 

The  reader  may  naturally  ask  whether  this  is 
mere  boasting;  in  answer  to  which  we  have  to 
say,  that  those  figures,  and  the  ones  given  below, 
are  from  sworn  returns  made  by  licensees  to  the 
receiver  appointed  by  the  owners  of  the  most 
valuable  sewing  machine  patents,  who  license 
the  companies  of  lesser  importance. 

In  1870  we 

Sold  over  the  Parham  Sewing  Machine  Co.  126.067     Machines. 

Sold  over  the  Finkle  &  Lyon  Manufacr'g    <'  125,413  *« 

Sold  over  the  Empire  Sewing  Machine         "  124r,273  <« 

Sold  over  the  ^^TNA  Sewing  Machine           "  122,027  " 

Sold  over  the  Gold  Medal   S.  M.                   "  118,921  " 

Sold  over  the  American  Button-Hole         "  113,260  " 

Sold  over  the  Florence  Sewing  Ma.              "  110,173  " 

Sold  over  the  Willcox  &  Girbs  S.  M.           "  98,943  " 

Sold  over  the  Weed  Sewing  Machine           '«  92,831  «' 

bold  over  the  Grover  &  Baker  S.  M.            "  70,431  '* 

Sold  over  the  Howe  Machin     Company,  52,677  " 

So:d  over  the  Wheeler  &  Wilson  Mfg.  Co.  44.625  •' 

139  Montgomery  otreet, 

Agents  for  the  Pacific  Ccast. 


BRTJCE'S  PRrNT. 


LIBRftRY  OF  CONGRESS 


Bowen  E 


0  014  487  717  2    # 


M 


^-. 


\  i:^>^ 


BRUCE'S  PEINT. 


Bowen's  Cream  Tarter. 


Glenfield's  Eng.  Starch. 


Bowen's  Liquid  Blueing. 


Procter  &  Gamble's  Extra  Family  Soap 
Full  Weight 


Bowen's  Assorted  Spices. 


Brace's  Printing  House,  535  Sac. 


