CALIFORNIA 
MEXICAN -SPANISH 
CGDK.BGDR. 


Berths  Hajjfl£r  G 


THE  LIBRARY 
OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


California 

Mexican-Spanish 

Cook  Book 


Selected 

Mexican  and  Spanish 
Recipes 


By 
Bertha  Haffner-Ginger 


This  book  is  dedicated  to  my  daughter,  nicknamed  Miss 
"Paprika"  by  our  pupils.  She  has  been  my  inspiration 
and  devoted  companion  through  all  the  years  of  my 
public  life. 

B.  H.  G. 


TO      MY      READERS 

An  announcement  that  my  lesson  for  the  day  would  be 
Spanish  dishes,  invariably  brought  record-breaking  crowds  in 
any  city  in  the  United  States,  and  a  demand  for  recipes  induced 
me  to  search  for  the  best  to  be  found. 

My  three  years'  stay  in  California  has  enabled  me  to  learn 
how  to  prepare  the  very  best  dishes  directly  from  the  natives, 
both  Mexican  and  Spanish. 

It  is  not  generally  known  that  Spanish  dishes  as  they  are 
known  in  California  are  really  Mexican  Indian  dishes.  Bread 
made  of  corn,  sauces  of  chile  peppers,  jerked  beef,  tor- 
tillas, enchiladas,  etc.,  are  unknown  in  Spain  as  native  foods; 
though  the  majority  of  Spanish  people  in  California  are  as  de- 
voted to  peppery  dishes  as  the  Mexicans  themselves,  and  as  the 
Mexicans  speak  Spanish,  the  foods  are  commonly  called  Spanish 
dishes. 

When  made  properly,  there  is  great  merit  in  this  class  of 
foods  and  I  have  endeavored  to  select  the  very  best  recipes, 
and  have  revised  them  into  correct  proportions  and  practical 
methods  of  preparation. 

Many  of  the  dishes  are  very  delicious  and  will  be  found  of 
great  value  for  luncheon,  entries,  and  a  zest  to  various  menus, 
and  especially  useful  to  those  who  desire  to  cater  to  the  public. 
Please  note  the  classification  of  sauces  and  dressings  which 
eliminates  a  repetition  of  the  same  sauce  in  different  dishes. 

Wishing  you  as  much  pleasure  in  the  preparation  and  serv- 
ing of  this  collection  of  recipes  as  I  have  had  in  compiling  them, 
I  am,  Very  sincerely  yours, 

BERTHA  HAFFNER-GINGER. 


THE  MISSION  OF  THE  OLD  PADRES  WAS  TO  MAKE  LIFE 
BRIGHTER    FOR    SUCH   AS    THESE 


REGULAR  SPANISH  DINNER 

60c 

Including  Table  Claret 

SOUP 

SALAD 

ENCHILADAS 

CARNE  CON  CHILI 

SPANISH  BEANS 

SPANISH  RICE 

FRUIT  AND  COFFEE 

Special  Spanish  Dinner 
$1.50  per  plate 


LISTA  DE  LOS  PLATOS 


(TABLE  D'HOTE) 


Ensalada  de  Frijoles 
[Pink  Bean  Salad] 


Sopa  de  Papas 
[Potato  Soup] 


Arroz  a  la  Creole  .->,-:^-" 
[Rice,  Spanish]     '"'"' 


Enchiladas  a  la  Brabo 


Enpanadas  de  Ternera,  Espagnol 
[Veal  Cutlet,  Spanish] 


Frijoles    Con  Carne  tip=^  sr* 

[Pink  Beans    with  Cheese]  v^-  -Vfc 


Dulce  de  Naranja 
[Orange  Pudding] 


Queso 
[Cheese] 


Galletas 
[Crackers]       :r^' 


&•¥&*&•»<  ^ 
fiJiil^ 

,  ''!$$££*'%*'• 
/;,  !"«55p!?&*' 
•Jj£rr*UJff •&-•'•-•  ^ 


Cafe   Negro 
[Black   Coffee] 


CABARET    DANCERS 
Case  Verdugo  Cafe,  Los  Angeles 


'Ensaladas  Esparto!' 

(Spanish  salads) 


Prepared  Vinegar  for  Spanish  Salad  Dressing 

Put  a  button  of  garlic,  large  slice  cucumber, 
slice  onion,  tablespoon  parsley,  tablespoon 
taragon  leaves,  or  two  tablespoons  taragon  vine- 
gar into  one  pint  cider  vinegar.  Bottle  and  let 
stand  several  days,  strain  and  keep  for  follow- 
ing salads  and  dressings. 

Especially  Prepared  Dressings 

Spanish  Dressing  No.  1 

Rul)  mixing  bowl  with  button  of  garlic,  break 
into  bowl  one  egg  yolk,  whip  stiff,  add  one- 
fourth  cup  best  olive  oil  slowly,  then  one-fourth* 
en])  lemon  .juice,  tablespoon  prepared  vinegar, 
teaspoon  sugar,  half  teaspoon  salt/,  tablespoon 
ureen  chile  pulp.  Very  fine. 


26  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Dressing  No.  2 

Six  tablespoons  of  best  olive  oil  in  bowl,  add 
gradually  three  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and  one 
of  prepared  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  brown  sugar, 
half  teaspoon  salt,  tablespoon  red  chile  pulp, 
stir  with  rotary  motion  until  a  thick  cream, 
serve  at  once  on  salad. 

Spanish  Salad  Dressing  No.  3 

Lemon  or  lime  juice.  Six  tablespoons  to 
three  of  olive  oil,  teaspoon  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  dash  red  pepper,  teaspoon  onion 
juice. 

Spanish  Salad,  Avacado  (Aligator  Pear) 

Peal  and  cut  in  half  pears,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  sugar  twenty  minutes  before  using,  then 
place  in  heart  of  small  crisp  lettuce  head,  pour 
over  Spanish  dressing  No.  3. 

I   JS& 


Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Select  six  fine  ripe  tomatoes;  remove  the 
hearts  carefully;  place  on  ice  until  chilled;  pare 
two  cucumbers  and  chop  them  finely;  mix  with 
tomato  pulp;  pour  over  a  half  cup  of  dressing- 
No.  3  and  fill  the  tomatoes.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  decorate  with  thinly  sliced  sweet 
peppers. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  27 

Spanish  Sweet  Pepper  Salad 

Remove  seed  and  fill  half  peppers  with 
chopped  cucumber  and  celery,  mixed  with  dress- 
ing No.  3,  garnish  with  pimiento  or  beets,  serve 
on  lettuce. 

Spanish  Bean  Salad 

One  cup  Spanish  beans  cooked  tender,  small 
pink  (canned  red  kidney  beans  will  do);  chop 
sweet  green  pepper,  one-fourth  cup,  tablespoon 
each  of  onion,  ripe  sweet  pepper,  parsley  and 
cucumber,  mix  with  beans,  serve  with  Spanish 
dressing  No.  1. 


Spanish  Tomato  and  Egg  Salad 

Peel  smooth  just  ripe  tomatoes,  slice  in  three 
slices  across,  place  on  lettuce  leaf,  put  border 
around  of  hard  boiled  whites  of  eggs,  stand 
hard  boiled  yolk  in  center,  pour  over  Spanish 
dressing  No.  1. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Scald  and  peel  large  tomatoes,  remove  center, 
mix  with  equal  parts  celery,  green  chile,  onions, 
fry  in  little  olive  oil  and  lemon  juice,  salt  to 
taste,  fill  tomatoes  teaspoon  Spanish  dressing 
No.  1,  sprinkle  little  chopped  parsley  and  grated 
cheese,  set  on  ice,  serve  on  lettuce. 


28         .  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  California  Ripe  Olive  Salad 

Remove  seed  from  ripe  olives,  fill  with  mix- 
ture of  cottage  cheese,  pimicnto,  salt,  paprika, 
parsley,  press  together,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf, 
cover  with  Spanish  dressing  No.  1. 

Spanish  Moulded  Salad 

Chop  enough  ripe  tomatoes  to  fill  a  cup,  half 
cup  cucumber,  one-fourth  cup  celery,  one-fourth 
cup  green  sweet  peppers,  tablespoon  onion,  one- 
half  teaspoon  chile  powder,  salt  to  taste.  Dis- 
solve one  tablespoon  gelatine  in  one  cup  tomato 
juice,  pour  over  above,  mix  and  mould,  when 
firm  cut  in  squares,  serve  with  Spanish  sauce 
Nos.  1  or  2  in  lettuce  leaf. 

Spanish  Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad 

Pare  and  chop  fine  one  good-sized  fresh  cu- 
cumber. Shred  sufficient  cabbage  to  make  one 
pint,  throw  in  cold  water  for  one  hour;  scald 
and  peal  one  good  sized  tomato  and  chop  fine. 
Remove  the  seeds  from  one  large  sweet  pepper, 
chop  and  mix  with  the  tomato.  When  ready 
to  serve  drain  and  dry  the  cabbage.  Put  into 
salad  bowl  a  layer  of  cabbage,  then  a  layer  of 
cucumber,  then  a  layer  of  tomato  and  a  layer  of 
pepper;  sprinkle  with  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice;  then  another  layer  of  cabbage  and  con- 
tinue until  all  the  material  is  used.  Serve  with 
dressing  No.  2. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  29 

Spanish  Cabbage  Salad 

Two  cups  shredded  cabbage  red  and  white 
mixed,  two  tablespoons  chopped  roasted  chest- 
nuts, two  of  pecans,  mix  with  dressing  No.  2  and 
serve  in  lettuce  cups. 

Rice  Salad 

A  cup  of  boiled  rice;  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  one  head  of  lettuce.  Arrange  on  platter, 
alternate  layers  of  rice,  shredded  lettuce  leaves, 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  dressing  No.  1. 
Over  the  top  layer  of  dressing  press  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  through  a  sieve  and  garnish  the  edges 
with,  a  layer  of  lettuce  leaves  and  radish  tulip. 
Chop  cress  and  cabbage,  equal  parts,  add  few 
minced  chives,  add  one-fourth  cup  cream  to 
one-half  cup  salad  dressing  No.  3  and  serve  over 
salad. 


OVEN  IN  PATIO.  RAMONA'S  MARRIAGE  PLACE 


OLD  SPANISH  KITCHEN  IN  CALIFORNIA 


INDIAN    OVENS 


Sopa  Espanol 

(Spanish  Soups) 


Sopa  de  Frijoles  (Bean  Soup) 

Cook  one  pint  pink  beans  in  two  quarts  beef 
stock  till  tender.  Add  one  cup  chopped  onions, 
two  green,  two  ripe  chiles  (fresh  or  canned) ,  one 
quart  canned  tomatoes,  two  tablespoons  chopped 
parsley.  Cook  all  thoroughly.  Drop  in  Spanish 
meat  balls  and  serve  with  Spanish  cheese 
fingers. 


Spanish  Meat  Balls 

Grind  soup  beef  very  fine.  Add  one  egg  to 
one  cup  meat,  salt,  little  onion  juice,  two  table- 
spoons soaked  bread,  make  into  very  small  balls, 
roll  in  crumbs,  fry,  drop  in  soup  just  before 
serving  and  sprinkle  each  ball  with  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  bits  of  pimiento  for  color 
effect. 


;}£  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Sopa  de  Papas  (Potato  Soup) 

Add  one  cup  mashed  potatoes  to  one  cup 
chicken,  veal  or  beef  stock,  one  cup  milk,  table- 
spoon butter,  salt,  one  bay  leaf,  tablespoon  flour 
to  thicken,  cook  and  strain,  cut  thinly  sliced 
bread,  round,  the  size  of  a  nickle,  butter  and 
toast,  make  little  pile  grated  yellow  cheese  on 
toast,  top  with  red  sweet  pepper,  pinch  of 
chopped  parsley  on  top.  Serve  hot. 


Spanish  Hot  Vegetable  Broth 

Make  broth  of  one  cup  cabbage,  one  cup  car- 
rots, one-half  cup  onions,  one  cup  garlic,  one-half 
cup  turnips,  one-half  cup  celery,  one-fourth  cup 
green  pepper.  Add  one  quart  canned  tomatoes, 
one  quart  clarified  meat  stock,  cook  thoroughly, 
strain,  serve  hot  with  spoonful  well  cooked  rice 
in  bowl.  For  vegetable  soup  leave  all  vege- 
tables in . 


Spanish  Fish  Chowder 

Fry  one-half  cup  salt  pork  cut'  into  small 
cubes,  one-half  cup  chopped  onion  to  light 
brown,  add  tablespoon  flour,  then  add  two  cups 
small  pieces  of  white  boneless  fish  meat,  brown 
slightly,  strain  two  cups  hot  milk,  one  cup  pre- 
pared Spanish  sauce,  salt  to  taste,  dash  of 
paprika,  (lams  or  oysters  may  be  used,  allow- 
ing only  one  minute  for  clams  or  oysters. 


MEXICAN  WOMAN  MAKING  TORTILLAS 

Y.  Y.  Perez,  Public  Bakery,  Sonora  Town,  Los  Angeles.  They 
refuse  to  make  them  any  other  way  and  take  the  same  pleasure 
in  making  a  perfectly  thin  and  round  tortilla  that  puffs  up 
nicely  while  cooking,  as  you  and  I  do  in  trying  to  make  a  beau- 
tiful loaf  of  bread.  Truly  the  heart  of  women  are  the  same  the 
world  over.  Deep  down,  no  matter  what  the  environment,  the 
desire  is  always  there,  to  be  "loaf  givers." 


Tortillas 


Modern  Way  to  Prepare  Corn  for  Tortilla  and 

Tamales 

Put  one  gallon  of  shelled  corn  in  enough  water 
to  cover;  dissolve  one-half  cup  lime  in  a  little 
water  and  add  to  cover;  boil  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes;  remove  from  fire,  pour  off  first  water 
and  add  fresh  cold  water;  rub  with  hand  to  re- 
move husk.  Rinse  in  another  water  and  it  is 
ready  to  grind.  Don't  wash  too  much  or  it  will 
not  be  pasty  enough  to  make  tortilla. 


Tortillas  No.  2 

Another  way  and  liked  best  by  some  people: 
Add  to  the  corn  dough  (masa)  rounding  table- 
spoon of  lard  to  four  cups  dough,  little  salt. 


Tortillas  No.  3 

Still  another  way :    Corn  meal  and  coarse  flour 
half  and  half  wet  to  stiff  dough,  saltj  and  lard. 


44  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Tortillas  No.  4 

But  the  best  to  my  taste  is  the  hominy  or  corn 
ground  into  a  smooth  paste,  three  cups  corn,  one 
of  flour,  two  tablespoons  melted  lard,  teaspoon 
salt,  cook  on  ungreased  iron,  have  ready  enough 
hot  salted  lard  to  dip  tortilla  in  just  before  you 
add  filling  to  make  Enchiladas.  When  flour  is 
used,  dough  may  be  rolled  out  on  a  board,  a  small 
pie  tin  placed  on  and  cut  round  the  edge  to  form 
cake ;  lift  up  with  pancake  turner. 


How  to  Shape  Tortillas 

Take  piece  of  dough  size  of  biscuit  and  press 
with  hand  into  cake  size  of  small  pie  plate,  toast 
on  top  of  stove  moderately  warm.  Do  not  brown. 


A  PLATE  OF  TORTILLA 


TACO 

Made  by  putting  chopped  cooked  beef  and  chile  sauce  in 
tortilla  made  of  meal  and  flour;  folded,  edges  sealed  together 
with  egg;  fried  in  deep  fat,  chile  sauce  served  over  it. 


INDIAN  WOMAN  BAKING  BREAD 


A  PUBLIC  BAKERY  IN  MEXICO 
Women  Making  Tortilla 


ENCHILADAS 


Enchiladas 


Enchiladas,  No.  1  (Very  fine) 

Make  Tortilla.  Chop  one  cup  onions  very 
fine,  slice  and  chop  one-half  cup  olives,  cook 
in  little  lard;  have  cup  grated  cheese  ready,  dip 
tortilla  in  hot  salted  lard,  dip  in  chile  sauce  No. 
1,  spread  with  grated  cheese,  put  in  center  table- 
spoonful  of  cooked  onions,  tablespoon  chopped 
hard-boiled  eggs,  two  tablespoons  chopped 
chicken,  six  seedless  raisins  soaked  in  claret, 
level  tablespoon  chopped  olives,  a  sprinkle  of 
cheese  and  fourth  cup  Chile  Sauce  No.  1,  fold 
both  sides,  one  over  the  other,  pour  Chile  Sauce 
No.  5  over  all,  put  tablespoon  cooked  onion  on 
center  of  top  of  each  and  several  large  pieces  of 
cheese  and  three  whole  olives.  Place  in  hot 
oven  till  cheese  is  melted,  serve  very  hot. 

Enchiladas  No.  2 

Use  green  chile  sauce  for  Enchiladas  No.  2, 
and  filling  of  beef  or  A^eal,  with  onion  or  coddled 
or  poached  egg  on  top  sprinkled  with  grated 
cheese,  spoonful  red  chile  sauce  dropped  in  spots 
for  color,  heat  till  cheese  melts. 


Chile  Pulp  and  Sauces  for  all 
Recipes 

Chile  peppers  are  the  base  of  all  Mexican  and 
Spanish  dishes,  and  I  have  simplified  the  various 
recipes  by  making  a  list  of  different  ways  to 
make  the  pepper  pulps  and  sauces.  Please  note 
that  they  are  numbered  and  named,  referred  to 
by  number  and  name  in  the  recipes.  Original 
way  to  prepare  chile  for  sauce  is  to  remove  seed 
and  toast  on  coals,  top  of  stove  or  in  oven,  till 
thep  puff  and  look  tender;  and  mash  through 
seive  or  colander;  add  water  or  tomatoes  for 
right  consistancy;  scalding  is  the  quickest. 

No.  1,  Red  Chile  Sauce,  for  Enchiladas  or 
Tamales,  etc. 

Split  red  chile  pepper,  remove  all  seeds  and 
veins,  soak  several  hours  in  water,  pour  off,  pour 
on  boiling  water,  pour  off  and  repeat  again,  the 
last,  water  just  enough  to  cover  peppers  when 
pressed  down.  Mash  in  this  water  and  press 
through  sieve,  melt  one-half  cup  pure  lard,  add 
heaping  tablespoon  flour,  brown  and  add  three 
cups  of  chile  pulp,  salt  to  taste,  cook  very  slowly 
half  hour. 


60  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

No.  2,  Green  Chile  Sauce  for  Enchiladas  or 
Tamales,  etc. 

Split,  remove  seeds  and  veins  from  green 
chiles  and  boil  in  little  hot  water  till  tender; 
mash,  press  through  sieve,  melt  one-fourth  cup 
lard,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  teaspoon  salt, 
brown  just  a  little,  add  three  cups  green  pulp, 
cook  slowlv  half  hour. 


Prepared  Spanish  Sauce 

Take  equal  parts  red  and  green  chile  peppers, 
same  amount  green  and  red  sweet  peppers,  split, 
remove  seed  from  all,  soak  in  water,  drain,  add 
enough  water  to  barely  cover,  boil  tender,  mash 
in  water,  press  through  seive,  heat  half  cup  olive 
oil,  fry  in  it  one-half  cup  onion,  one-half  parsley, 
three  garlic  buttons,  tablespoon  aregano,  two 
cups  raw  tomatoes,  six  cloves,  two  cups  of  the 
pepper  pulp,  salt  to  taste,  cook,  strain,  may  heat 
and  bottle  larger  quantities,  very  fine. 


Pickles  and  Relishes 


Spanish  Pickle 

Heat  quart  apple  vinegar,  add  tablespoon  salt, 
twenty  cloves,  two  tablespoons  aregano,  two  of 
cominos,  boil  five  minutes,  let  cool,  pour  over 
small  red  and  green  chiles  wild  tamatillos  (wild 
tomatoes)  and  put  up  in  jars. 


Green  Chile  Relish,  No.  1 

Remove  seed  and  veins  from  twelve  large 
green  chiles,  soak  over  night  in  water  with  lit- 
tle salt  in  it,  chop  and  measure  one  quart  green 
tomatoes,  chop  chiles,  one  cup  cucumber,  1  garlic 
button,  cook  altogether  until  a  pulp,  press 
through  sieve,  add  one-half  cup  lemon  or  lime 
juice,  tablespoon  salt.  Fine  over  cold  meats,  fish, 
oysters,  eggs,  croquettes,  roast  pork,  mix  with 
apple  sauce;  serve  on  fried  apple  fritters. 


Red  Chile  Relish,  No.  2 

]\Iake  same  as  green,  substitute  ripe  tomatoes 
and  red  chiles.  You  may  bottle,  seal  tightly  each 
sauce;  will  keep  indefinitely. 


Chile  Con  Carne 


Mexican  Red  Hot  Chile  Con  Carne 

To  each  cup  of  raw  or  cooked,  chopped  or 
ground  beef,  one-half  cup  lard  or  suet,  add  one 
cup  pulp  of  red  chile  pepper,  two  cups  beef  stock, 
salt,  cook  until  a  thick  sauce  is  formed,  serve 
with  frijoles. 


Chicken  Griblet  Chile 

Cook  chicken  jiblets  livers  and  hearts  tender 
in  small  amount  water;  chop  and  add  equal 
amount  chile  sauce  No.  1  or  2,  salt  to  taste, 
serve  on  Spanish  rice  put  in  dish,  sprinkle  with 
parmasan  cheese  or  Mexican  grated  cheese. 


Chile  Con  Carne  (Mild) 

Two  cups  cooked  chopped  beef,  one-half  cup 
green  chile  pulp,  one-half  cup  suet,  tablespoon 
lard,  one  cup  tomatoes,  one  button  garlic,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  onion.  Cook  until  thick,  serve 
with  frijoles. 


66  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Chile  Con  Game 

One-half  cup  chopepd  salt  pork,  one-half  cup 
suet,  add  one-half  cup  chopped  onion,  one  tea- 
spoon aregano,  one-half  teaspoon  safron,  fry  all 
together;  add  two  cups  cooked  ground  beef,  two 
cups  frijoles,  two  cups  red  chile  pulp,  one  cup 
water  or  three  cups  water  and  four  tablespoons 
chile  powder,  salt  to  taste  and  cook  forty  min- 
utes. 

Chicken  Chile 

Boil  a  fat  chicken  in  small  amount  water  with 
garlic  button,  or  slice  of  onion  to  flavor.  When 
tender  chop  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  heat  some 
of  the  chicken  fat  skimmed  from  the  liquor  and 
cut  from  chicken,  add  flour,  bit  of  onion,  add  one 
cup  green  chile  pulp,  two  cups  of  water  chicken 
was  boiled  in,  salt;  add  chopped  chicken,  stew 
few  minutes,  serve  on  Spanish  rice. 

Chile  Con  Carne 

Cook  beef,  veal  or  chicken  with  parsley,  car- 
rots, celery,  onions,  bay  leaf.  Let  it  cook  very 
slowly  until  tender,  then  cut  meat  into  small 
pieces,  strain  the  juice,  add  to  every  pint  one- 
half  cup  chile  pulp  and  one  cup  of  cooked  and 
mashed  •frijoles,  add  tablespoon  butter  or  lard, 
then  meat,  and  if  too  hot  add  cup  tomatoes,  cook 
few  minutes  longer. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 


Tamales 

Chop  one  pound  of  beef,  pork  or  chicken,  add 
a  little  chopped  tallow  or  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard  and  a  little  salt;  fry  in  a  pan  until  tender; 
chop  again  very  fine;  return  to  pan;  add  a  lit- 
tle warm  water  and  pulp  of  two  red  chiles;  stir 
and  fry  few  minutes.  Add  to  one  quart  of  corn- 
meal  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  lard,  and  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick 
dough.  Cut  off  about  one  inch  of  corn  husk  stalk 
ends  and  soak  in  hot  water  ten  minutes;  dry  and 
rub  over  with  hot  lard.  Put  a  layer  of  dough  on 
the  husk  about  four  inches  long,  one  and  one-half 
inches  wide  and  one-fourth  inch  thick;  along  the 
center  spread  two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  of  the  pre- 
pared meat;  roll  and  fold  the  small  end  of  the 
husk;  place  them  folded  end  down  in  a  strainer 
over  hot  water.  Cover  and  steam  several  hours. 
Serve  hot. 


Tamales 

Chicken  Tamales 

Soak  some  trimmed  corn  husk  (bought  in 
Mexican  stores)  for  several  hours  in  cold  water, 
then  boil  until  soft,  remove;  dry  on  cloth,  and 
rub  with  lard.  Cut  up  a  fat  chicken,  cook  until 
very  tender  in  just  enough  water'  to  leave  about 
four  cups.  Chop  up  cooked  chicken,  add  corn 
meal  or  masa  to  boiling  hot  chicken  broth  until 
a  thick  dough;  add  salt  to  taste,  one  tablespoon 
chile  powder,  or  chile  sauce  No.  1;  add  table- 
spoon of  lard  and  knead  all  together  until  light 
and  smooth.  Now  to  all  the  chicken  add  enough 
chile  sauce  No.  1  to  mix  thickly  together; 
add  about  one-fourth  cup  of  sliced  olives  and 
a  few  whole  ones  and  one-fourth  cup 
seedless  raisins,  and  a  few  whole  ones, 
salt  to  taste  and  cook  together  for  five  min- 
utes; spread  corn  dough  evenly  over  shuck  or 
husk  about  one-eighth  inch  thick.  In  center  of 
one  larger  husk  place  a  large  kitchen  spoonful  of 
chicken;  spread  over  this  one  tablespoonful  of 
dough;  place  another  husk  spread  with  dough; 
continue  placing  husk  around  on  all  sides  until 
about  ten  are  used.  Tie  ends  together  with  a 
strip  of  husk  and  place  on  end  in  a  colander  over 
boiling  water  for  two  or  three  hours,  or  place 
some  corn  husk  in  bottom  of  vessel,  pile  tamales 
on  top,  pour  in  about  a  quart  of  wat,er,  bring  to  a 
boil  and  steam  slowlv  for  three  or  four  hours. 


70  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Tamale  Pie 

Make  a  crust  of  two  cups  of  hot  water,  one-half 
cup  lard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  cormneal  to 
make  thick  dough.  Spread  on  bottom  and  sides 
of  pie  tin.  Mix  beef,  pork,  veal  or  chicken  with 
plenty  of  suet  for  shortening- — any  two  of  above 
meats  will  do — measure  two  cups  of  meat,  add 
two  tablespoons  of  cornmeal,  one-half  cup  <>i' 
chile  pulp,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  meat 
stock  or  water.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes,  fill  pic 
crust,  spread  more  dough  over  top.  Make  little 
balls  the  size  of  marbles  set  around  edge.  Pour 
a  little  melted  lard  over  the  top,  sprinkle  with 
chile  powder;  bake  about  thirty  minutes. 


Beef  Tamales 

Ground  beef  fried  in  lard  and  suet,  add  chile 
sauce  No.  2  and  cook  until  thick.  Prepare  corn- 
meal  or  masa  by  pouring  on  boiling  hot  water, 
salt  to  taste,  add  one  cup  of  lard  to  four  cups 
meal  or  masa,  add  few  olives  and  raisins  if  de- 
sired. Prepare  as  for  chicken  tamale  recipe. 
Steam.  Texas  tamales  made  as  above  with  olives 
and  raisins  left  out  and  spoonful  put  in  one  long 
shuck,  fold  ends  over  and  press  flat. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 


71 


Corn  Husk  and  Red  Chile 

There  are  firms  in  California  putting  up  a  spe- 
cially prepared  corn  meal  for  totrillas.  There 
are  chile  powders  and  canned  red  and  green  hot 
chile  peppers;  also  the  red  sweet  pepper,  called 
pimiento,  which  makes  it  possible  to  cook  Span- 
ish dishes  anvwhere. 


(Eggs  Cooked  Spanish) 


Spanish  Omelet  (Supreme) 

A  complete  lesson — Fry  a  strip  of  bacon  for 
each  diner;  remove  from  fat  and  keep  hot.  Cook 
until  tender,  in  the  fat,  one  tablespoon  minced 
onion  and  sliver  of  garlic  button  (young  green 
onion  is  best),  one  tablespoon  minced  green 
sweet  pepper,  same  of  canned  sweet  red  pepper 
(pimiento),  one  tablespoon  parsley,  four  sliced 
ripe  olives,  four  seedless  raisins,  six  mushrooms. 
Add  when  done,  level  teaspoon  flour,  then  add 
one  cup  tomato — raw  or  canned;  cook  few  min- 
utes, salt  to  taste,  add  one  teaspoon  chile  powder 
or  two  tablespoons  red  chile  sauce.  Use  the 
above  amount  for  every  two  eggs.  Keep  hot 
and  prepare  eggs  by  breaking  in  separate  bowl 
whites  and  yolk;  beat  yolk  first  very  stiff  till 
light  in  color,  add  tablespoon  water  to  each  yolk 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  Avhites  stiff, 
add  small  pinch  cream  tartar  while  whipping. 
Fold  three-fourths  of  the  whites  into  the  yolks- 
do  not  break  up  too  fine.  Have  hot  omelet  pan 
bottom  covered  well  with  lard  or  butter;  pour  in 


76  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

eggs ;  lower  fire  and  cook  slowly,  lifting  up  with 
spatula  at  different  places  to  let  raw  egg  to  bot- 
tom. When  nearly  done,  set  under  gas  broiler 
or  in  very  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until 
seared.  Remove,  and  with  spoon,  put  prepared 
filling  on  one-half  of  omelet,  fold  other  half  over, 
turn  out  on  a  hot  platter.  Put  rest  of  whipped 
whites  on  top  to  form  a  circular  crown  around 
edge.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  bits  of  butter;  set 
back  in  oven  and  brown  but  not  too  deeply.  Re- 
move; decorate  with  bits  or  strips  of  pemiento, 
sliced  olives,  parsley,  and  last,  the  strips  of  bacon 
and  triangles  of  toast.  A  simple  way,  not  so 
pretty  and  fluffy,  but  good,  is  to  mix  the  filling 
with  whipped  eggs;  cook,  fold  and  serve  hot. 


Spanish  Stuffed  Tomato  Omelet 

Soak  one  cup  bread  crumbs  in  one-half  cup 
boiling  milk,  add  tablespoon  butter,  salt,  pepper, 
teaspoon  onion  juice.  Remove  centers  from 
peeled  tomatoes,  stuff  with  bread  mixture,  place 
in  a  serving  platter,  bake  until  tender.  Whip 
one  egg  for  each  tomato  separately.  Add  table- 
spoon water  to  each  yolk,  salt,  chile  pepper,  tea- 
spoon butter  for  each  egg.  Pour  around  toma- 
toes to  come  to  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Serve  hot,  or  partly  fill  tomato  wit,h  bread  mix- 
ture, break  egg  on  top,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and 
bake.  Cut  tomatoes  out  in  squares  to  get  all  the 
egg,  and  serve  on  lettuce. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  77 

Eggs  in  Chile  Blankets 

Roll  a  long  piece  of  cheese  in  strips  of  chile 
peppers  roasted,  peeled  and  seeded,  fry  in  hot 
lard  and  serve  with  prepared  Spanish  sauce  on 
toast. 

Spanish  Sausage  Omelet 

Mix  level  tablespoon  fine  sausage,  tablespoon 
bread  crumbs  in  tablespoon  milk  for  each  egg, 
whip  yolks  of  as  many  eggs  as  needed,  little 
parsley,  salt  and  teaspoon  red  pepper  pulp,  or 
chile  powder;  add  white  of  egg  and  pour  into  hot 
greased  pan;  cook  slowly,  until  done.  Fold 
and  turn  out,  cover  with  Spanish  sauce.  Garnish 
with  lettuce  or  parsley. 

Spanish  Creamed  Eggs 

Boil  eggs  hard  fifteen  minutes,  shell,  cut 
lengthwise;  remove  yolk  (reserve  one  egg). 
Mash  yolk  and  add  to  each  a  teaspoon  of  thick 
white  sauce,  or  bread  cooked  smooth  in  milk; 
bits  of  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  paprika  and  finely 
minced  parsley.  Fill  white  of  eggs,  fasten  to- 
gether with  toothpicks;  roll  in  raw  egg  and 
bread  crumbs;  fry  in  deep  hot  olive  oil  or  other 
fat;  drain.  Remove  toothpicks  and  where  eggs 
are  put  together  separate  with  knife  and  sprin- 
kle center  with  little  crumbled  dry  yolk,  place 
on  toast.  Make  a  border  of  chopped  whites  cut 
in  rings.  Pour  hot  Spanish  sauce  partly  over 
and  around  egg;  garnish  with  parsley,  and  you 
have  a  delicious  dish  in  truly  Spanish  colors. 


78  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Mexican  Scrambled  Eggs  in  Chile 

Mix  one  tablespoon  green  cliile  pulp  to  each 
egg,  whipped  separately,  teaspoon  lard  or  but- 
ter, a  slice  garlic  or  teaspoon  onion  juice,  scram- 
ble quickly,  serve  on  toast,  garnish  with  spoon- 
ful red  chile  sauce  and  parsley. 

Pimiento  Egg 

Hard  boil  small  eggs,  shell,  salt,  put  each  in  a 
canned  pirniento  large  enough  to  close  end  with 
toothpick,  salt  well,  dip  in  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat, 
slice  in  half  lengthwise,  make  cup  white  sauce, 
add  tablespoon  green  chile  pulp,  serve  on  egg, 
good  and  pretty  Spanish  color  effect. 

Spanish  Eggs  in  Peppers 

Scald  large  sweet  peppers;  peel,  cut  in  half, 
remove  seeds,  half  fill  with  minced  onion  fried 
brown,  one  teaspoon  red  chile  sauce,  tablespoon 
tomato  sauce  or  catsup.  Break  one  egg  and 
scramble  and  pile  on  top.  Decorate  with  red 
chile  powder  and  parsley.  Or  break  egg  whole 
on  top  of  sauce  and  bake  in  oven. 

Spanish  Eggs,  Shirred 

Brown  in  a  teaspoon  of  butter  or  bacon  fat,  one 
teaspoon  of  minced  onion,  add  teaspoon  of  flour, 
salt  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  prepared  chile  sauce, 
one-fourth  cup  raw  tomato.  Cook  and  pour  into 
individual  baking  dish  and  break  egg  over  top. 
Set  in  oven  until  eggs  are  covered  with  a  film. 
Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve  hot. 


"Carne  Espanol 

(Spanish  Meats) 


Spanish  Steak  (Elegante) 

Slightly  grease  very  hot  skillet  Avith  olive  oil. 
Select  tender  steak,  sear  both  sides,  turning 
until  cooked  as  desired.  Make  ready  a  sauce  as 
follows:  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  of 
olive  oil  together,  add  tablespoon  onion,  one 
small  button  of  garlic,  one  tablespoon  parsley, 
one  green  sweet  pepper,  and  two  tablespoons 
chili  pulp.  When  well  browned,  add  tablespoon 
flour  and  brown,  add  one  can  prepared  tomato 
soup  or  two  cups  fresh  chopped  tomatoes,  cook 
five  minutes,  strain  and  pour  over  hot  steak. 
Garnish  with  mushrooms  and  ripe  olives 
browned  in  butter,  sprinkled  with  salt  and  chile 
pepper  and  sprigs  of  parsley,  or  if  cheese  is 
liked,  sprinkle  grated  yellow  cheese  over  steak 
and  sauce,  melt  in  oven,  serve  hot,  or  use  Span- 
ish prepared  sauce. 


82  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Steak  (Economical) 

Select  two  pounds  upper  round  steak,  sear  on 
hot  skillet  on  both  sides  till  crust  is  formed: 
then  one-half  cup  suet,  half  cup  hot  wa- 
ter, cover;  cook  slowly  half  hour,  add  salt  and 
pepper.  Fry  one  cup  chopped  onions  in  table- 
spoon lard  until  slightly  brown;  add  tablespoon 
flour,  can  tomatoes,  teaspoon  oregano,  two  table- 
spoons green  chile  pulp;  spread  over  steak,  cover 
and  cook  twenty  minutes  longer.  Place  on  serv- 
ing dish,  sprinkle  with  cheese,  set  in  oven  to  melt 
cheese  and  serve  hot. 


Flank  Steak,  Spanish 

Have  butcher  cris  cross  a  flank  steak.  Rub  into 
it  flour,  seasoned  with  salt  and  chile  powder,  not 
too  much,  spread  with  lard  or  melted  suet,  make 
a  filling  of  bread  crumbs,  tomato,  chile  pulp  or 
powder,  onion,  aregano,  bay  leaf,  salt,  roll  up  and 
tie.  Put  tablespoon  lard,  cup  tomato,  little  salt 
on  top,  cover  and  bake  two  or  three  hours  slowly. 

Spanish  Pork  Tenderloin  Cutlets 

Pound  tenderloin  out  flat;  cover  with  flour; 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  chili  powder.  Fry 
brown  in  hot  olive  oil  or  bacon  fat.  Place  tri- 
angles of  toast  in  center  of  platter,  arrange  cut- 
lets standing  around  toast.  Put  lettuce  cups 
around  outside  of  cutlets  and  fill  with  half  of 


MEXICAN- SPANISH    RECIPES  83 

peeled  tomato,  sprinkled  with  cooked  rice  and 
parsley,  salt  and  chile  powder,  or,  tomatoes 
stuffed  with  a  mixture  of  meat  and  rice,  seasoned 
\vith  salt,  chile  powder,  onion  and  butter.  Bake 
until  brown  on  top.  Garnish  with  parsley  and 
set  t  \viLi  <»f  parsley  in  center  of  toast. 

Mexican  Meat  Cakes 

Mix  pork  sausage  and  hamburger  equal  parts, 
to  two  cups  meat  add  one  cup  wet  bread,  add  one 
egg,  one-fourth  cup  onion,  teaspoon  salt,  table- 
spoon green  chile  pulp,  mix  and  make  into  cakes 
one  inch  thick,  put  one  cup  prepared  sauce  in  pan 
and  heat,  place  meat  in  sauce,  cover,  simmer  till 
done. 

Spanish  Meat  Cakes  (Delicious) 

Use  finely  ground  beef,  veal  or  chicken — raw 
or  cooked.  To  each  cup  meat,  add  one-half  cup 
wet  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  cup  chopped 
mushrooms,  browned  in  a  little  butter,  teaspoon 
onion  juice,  one-fourth  cup  white  sauce  and  salt 
to  taste.  Make  into  round  flat  cakes ;  fry  in  smal  1 
amount  olive  oil  and  butter,  until  brown;  make 
a  sauce  of  six  chopped  olives,  one-fourth  cup 
mushrooms,  tablespoon  onion,  tablespoon  flour  in 
tablespoon  each  of  olive  oil  and  butter;  add  salt 
and  paprika,  and  cup  of  fresh  or  canned  toma- 
toes, and  tablespoon  green  chile  pulp,  and  pour 
a  !•••  >und  meat  cakes.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  pars- 
lev. 


84  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Mexican  Meat  Dumplings 

Mix  one  cup  meat  raw  or  cooked,  add  one-half 
cup  chopped  bacon,  one-half  cup  tomatoes,  tea- 
spoon salt,  tablespoon  chile  pulp  or  chile  powder, 
mix  to 'thick  dough  with  corn  meal,  make  into 
balls  size  of  walnuts,  drop  in  salted  boiling  water 
and  tomatoes,  little  lard  and  corn  meal  to  thicken 
water  when  meat  is  done. 


Spanish  Beef  Stew 

Cut  one  pound  stew  beef  or  veal  in  small  two- 
inch  pieces,  flour  thickly  and  brown  in  table- 
spoon of  hot  suet;  add  one-half  cup  chopped  on- 
ion, one  bay  leaf,  four  cups  tomatoes;  cook  slowly 
until  meat  is  tender;  add  salt,  one  tablespoon 
chile  pulp;  one  cup  cold  boiled  potatoes — cut  in 
neat  squares.  When  potatoes  are  hot,  serve  on 
triangles  of  buttered  toast. 

Mexican  Chicken  Meat  Balls 

Two  cups  ground  chicken,  two  tablespoons 
finely  chopped  onion,  one-half  cup  tomato,  one- 
half  garlic  button,  two  tablespoons  chopped 
sweet  pepper,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  mint  leaves, 
one-half  teaspoon  aregano,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  three  tablespoons  corn  meal 
mush,  mix  together,  roll  in  flour,  make  into  balls, 
fry  in  deep  fat,  or  bake  in  oven,  serve  with  Span- 
ish sauce. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  85 

Spanish  Fish  Stew 

Cut  fish  in  three-inch  pieces,  salt  and  roll  in 
corn  meal.  Heat  tablespoon  bacon  fat  and  one 
of  olive  oil,  add  half  cup  sliced  onion,  fry  brown, 
add  fish  and  brown,  add  enough  tomato  to  barely 
cover  fish,  two  tablespoons  chile  sauce,  salt  to 
taste,  pinch  safron,  and  aregano;  cook  few  min- 
utes. Serve  on  platter.  Garnish  with  potato 
balls  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Spanish  Baked  Fish 

Make  a  filling  of  broad  crumbs  wet  with  one 
cup  of  tomatoes,  add  one  tablespoon  minced  on- 
ion, one  tablespoon  parsley,  one-half  cup  red  to- 
mato pulp,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  ten 
sliced  olives,  one-half  cup  seedless  raisins:  fill 
and  sew  up  fish.  Place  in  pan.  When  done,  re- 
move carefully  to  hot  platter  and  peel  off  skin. 
Pour  hot  prepared  Spanish  sauce  over  fish ;  gar- 
nish with  lemon  and  parsley.  Awfully  good. 

Spanish  Fried  Fish 

Salt  and  dip  Barracuda  or  any  tender  fish  in 
a  batter  made  of  egg,  flour,  milk  and  salt.  Fry 
in  deep  hot  olive  oil.  Serve  with  sauce  made  by 
browning  tablespoon  onion  in  tablespoon  olive 
oil,  adding  tablespoon  flour  and  browning,  then 
add  one  cup  tomatoes,  two  tablespoons  green  or 
red  chile  pulp,  salt;  cook  and  pour  across  center 
of  fish,  allowing  brown  crisp  ends  to  show.  Gar- 
nish with  slices  of  sweet  green  pepper,  lemon 
and  parsley. 


Mi  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Hash 

Put  a  layer  of  seasoned  whipped  potatoes  one 
inch  thick  in  a  shallow  baking  pan.  Another 
layer  of  finely  chopped  beef,  lamb,  veal,  fish,  or 
fowl;  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  lit- 
tle onion  browned  in  lard;  prepare  a  top  layer  of 
one  cup  onions,  one  green  and  one  sweet  red  pep- 
per, one  tablespoon  parsley,  teaspoon  chili  pow- 
der or  pulp,  salt,  tablespoon  flour — ;all  browned 
in  two  tablespoons  lard.  Add  one-half  can  toma- 
toes; cook  till  thick;  spread  over  meat  layer, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  bits  of  cheese  and 
bake.  Dainty  when  baked  in  individual  dishes. 

Spanish  Curry  Hash 

Brown  in  two  tablespoons  butter,  three  table- 
spoons chopped  onions,  one  cup  ground  meat,— 
one  or  more  kinds,  one  cup  tomatoes,  ten  sliced 
olives,  one  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  one 
chopped  green  sweet  pepper,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon curry  powder,  one  tablespoon  flour;  add 
cup  of  any  meat  stock  or  hot  water;  salt  to  taste; 
add  one  cups  cooked  rice;  alternate  in  layer  with 
hash.  Pour  little  butter  over  top  and  bake. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  hard  cooked 

egg. 

Spanish  Stewed  Rabbit 

( 1ut  and  roll  rabbit  in  meal  and  flour,  salt  and 
chile  powder,  fry  nice  brown,  cover  wilh  Span- 
ish sauce,  little  hot  water,  add  one-half  cup  rais- 
ins, stew  ten  minutes,  garnish  with  toast  and 
mint. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  87 

Spanish  Chicken  Stew 

Cut  up  tender  chicken,  salt  and  flour,  brown  in 
small  amount  of  olive  oil.  Keep  hot.  Add  ta- 
blespoon butter  to  oil  left  in  frying  pan ;  add  one1 
half  cup  onions,  one  small  clove  of  garlic,  ta- 
blespoon parsley,  two  tablespoons  flour;  brown 
all  together  and  add  two  cups  tomatoes,  two  ta- 
blespoons chile  pulp  and  one  teaspoon  sugar; 
cook  until  thick;  pour  over  chicken;  garnish  with 
buttered  toast  and  green  peas. 

Spanish  Style  Stuffed  Chicken 
Brown  a  fat  tender  chicken  in  a  small  amount 
of  lard  by  turning  over  and  over  for  a  few  min- 
utes. Make  a  dressing  of  two  cups  bread 
crumbs,  three  tablespoons  pulp  of  sweet  green 
peppers,  one  cup  tomatoes,  two  tablespoons 
chopped  onion,  one-half  cup  claret,  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  one-half  cup  sliced  onions,  one- 
half  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  teaspoon  white  pep- 
per, and  salt  to  taste.  Stuff  chicken  and  bake  in 
closed  pan  one  hour.  Make  gravy  of  drippings 
by  adding  flour,  mushroom  sauce  and  hot  water. 
Pour  over  chicken. 

Spanish  Baked  Chicken  En  Casserole 

Salt  a  tender  chicken,  rub  inside  and  out 
with  onion,  butter  and  flour.  Put  in  a  large  cas- 
serole. Pour  in  bottom  one  cup  hot  water,  one 
teaspoon  oregano;  add  can  mushrooms,  stems 
and  trimmings;  one  dozen  sliced  olives,  two  ta- 
blespoons green  Spanish  sauce,  and  one  chopped 


88  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

pimiento,  two  cups  tomatoes,  one  tablespoon 
butter  and  tablespoon  flour  to  thicken;  salt  to 
taste;  cover  and  cook  till  done;  add  cup  of  cream 
•arid  cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Dip  but- 
tered toast  in  sherry — enough  toast  for  each 
guest;  lay  on  top  of  chicken;  cover;  let  stand  few 
minutes.  Serve  from  casserole. 


Spanish  Dressing  for  Chicken  or  Turkey 

One  pint  of  cold  corn  bread,  one  cup  rich  chick- 
en or  turkey  broth,  one-half  cup  roasted  chopped 
chestnuts,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  hard- 
boiled  egg  minced,  one  teaspoon  black  pepper, 
three  tablespoons  red  chile  pulp,  one-fourth  cup 
minced  onion,  large  tablespoon  minced  parsley, 
one  egg  whipped  very  light,  salt  to  taste,  stuff 
turkey  or  chicken,  when  baked,  make  the  ordi- 
nary dressing  of  the  drippings  add  chile  sauce, 
to  serA^e  on  dressing. 


Spanish  Tripe 

In  three  tablespoons  butter,  fry  one-half  cup 
onion.  Cut  one  pound  tripe  into  narrow  strips; 
salt  and  roll  in  flour.  Add  one  tablespoon  flour 
to  fat  and  brown;  add  to  this  one  cup  tomato,  sea- 
son with  tablespoon  chile  powder  or  pulp,  one 
teaspoon  sugar.  Let  simmer  until  very  tender. 
Serve  hot. 


Frijoles 

(Spanish  Beans) 


How  to  Cook  Beans 

Soak  over  night,  put  in  fresh  water  in  the 
morning  and  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  soda  to 
each  quart  of  water,  boil  until  half  done,  drain 
and  add  more  boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender. 
Hoil  longer  when  they  are  to  be  mashed. 

Frijoles  (Bean)  Sauce 

Cook  red  Spanish  beans  tender,  put  in  pan 
with  hot  lard,  add  onions,  green  or  red  chile  pulp. 
salt,  brown  a  little  flour  with  it,  mash,  press 
through  sieve,  add  meat  stock  to  thin  for  sauce, 
serve  over  meat  or  whole  beans. 

Frijoles 

Soak  pink  or  kidney  beans  over  night,  boil  till 
tender  in  salted  water  with  pinch  soda.  Drain 
and  add  can  tomatoes,  pulp  of  three  red  and 
three  green  chile  peppers,  one-half  cup  onions 
Cried  in  bacon  fat,  salt  to  taste,  boil  slowly  till 
verv  soft. 


92  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Mashed  Baked  Beans 

Cook  pink  or  kidney  beans  in  salted  water 
with  pinch  of  soda  until  very  soft.  Drain  and 
mash,  fry  bacon  crisp,  remove  from  pan  and 
turn  beans  into  fat,  let  brown  and  turn  out  on 
hot  platter,  pour  hot  Spanish  sauce  over,  garnish 
with  bacon  and  parsley. 


Spanish  Beans  Au  Gratin 

Two  cups  of  well-cooked  beans,  drained  of  wa- 
ter— into  two  tablespoons  of  hot  lard,  two  ta- 
blespoons of  red  chile  pulp;  brown;  add  one-half 
cup  grated  cheese,  stir  until  melted.  Serve  pip- 
ing hot. 


Arroz  a  la  Espanol 

(Spanish  Rice) 


How  to  Cook  Rice 

Wash  rice  in  several  waters,  drain,  rub  be- 
tween towels  until  dry,  throw  the  rice  spoonful 
at  a  time,  one  cup  to  five  cups,  into  boiling  hot 
salted  water,  boil  hard  for  ten  minutes  then  slow- 
ly until  all  water  is  absorbed,  put  asbestos  mat 
under  vessel  and  do  not  stir;  grains  will  be  dry 
and  separate  from  each  other. 


Spanish  Rice — Mint  Flavor 

Heat  two  tablespoons  lard,  bacon  or  olive  oil, 
add  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  chile  powder,  pinch  of 
mint  leaves,  slightly  cook,  add  one  cup  rice  and 
stir  about  until  rice  begins  to  color,  add  four  cups 
hot  water,  cook  slowly  until  all  water  as  ab- 
sorbed. Pile  on  platter  and  cover  with  Spanish 
sauce.  * 


98  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Rice 

Fry  heaping  tablespoon  chipped  bacon,  add 
one  garlic,  stir,  cook  few  minutes,  add  one  cup 
washed  and  dried  rice,  one  can  tomatoes,  salt, 
add  one-half  cup  chile  pulp,  cook  slowly;  when 
about  dry,  add  meat  stock  or  hot  water  to  finish 
cooking,  but  just  enough  to  have  rice  dry  and 
grains  separated  when  done. 

Spanish  Rice  au  Gratin 

Boil  one  cup  rice  in  five  cups  water,  add  a  but- 
ton of  garlic,  teaspoon  salt;  when  done  remove 
garlic.  Drain  any  water  and  put  in  baking  ves- 
sel alternate  layers  of  rice,  Spanish  sauce  and 
cheese,  topping  with  sauce  and  cheese  on  top. 
Bake  until  hot  through  and  cheese  a  rich  brown. 


Green  Peppers  With  Rice 

Chop  two  tablespoons  onion,  two  tablespoons 
red  sweet  peppers,  two  tablespoons  green  sweet 
peppers  very  fine,  fry  until  tender  with  a  table- 
spoon chopped  salt  pork.  Add  two  cups  toma- 
toes, cook  and  add  tablespoon  chile  pepper,  salt, 
fill  green  sweet  peppers,  put  butter  on  top, 
sprinkle  of  brown  sugar,  lemon  juice;  bake. 


Spanish  Stuffed  Peppers 


Stuffed  Chile  Pepper 

Fry  chile  peppers  until  they  puff  under  skin; 
cool  and  peel ;  cut  out  stem,  and  with  a  spoon  re- 
move seed.  Prepare  a  mixture  of  any  kind  of 
meat,  to  a  cup  of  meat,  one  tablespoon  of  chopped 
onion,  one  clove  garlic,  one-half  cup  tomatoes, 
one-half  cup  of  sliced  olives,  one-fourth  raisins- 
chopped  very  fine.  Add  one  tablespoon  vinegar, 
and  cook  in  two  tablespoons  hot  lard;  cool  and 
fill  the  chile  peppers.  Beat  desired  number  of 
eggs  separately,  add  a  tablespoon  flour,  one  of 
milk  to  each  egg,  and  season  with  salt  and  red 
pepper.  Dip  chile  in  batter,  and  fry  brown  in  hot 
lard,  drain,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley ;  serve 
hot.  A  prepared  sauce  may  be  served  over  chile 
or  a  white  sauce  with  apple,  raisins,  peach  pre- 
serves or  marmalades  added  to  desired  taste. 
Delicious. 


104  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Stuffed  Sweet  Peppers 

Mix  one  cup  of  ground  meat,  any  kind,  with 
half  .cup  bread,  two  tablespoons  onion,  one-half 
cup  tomatoes,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half 
raisins,  cook  all  together  in  one  tablespoon  hot 
butter  for  a  few  minutes,  cool,  add  one  egg,  salt, 
chile  powder,  fill  large  sweet  pepper  that  has  all 
seed  removed,  set  close  together  and  fill  in  be- 
tween with  raw  tomato,  salt,  pinch  aregano  to 
reach  top  of  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  until  well  done  and  brown. 

Sweet  Spanish  Peppers  With  Sardines 

Roast  or  scald  and  peel  green  sweet  peppers, 
take  out  seed  and  veins,  mix  with  half  cup  vine- 
gar, half  cup  water,  add  one-half  garlic  button, 
one-half  teaspoon  aregano,  piece  of  cinnamon; 
soak  all  night.  Make  filling  of  one-half  cup  bread, 
tablespoon  onion,  one-half  cup  tomatoes,  table- 
spoon sliced  olives,  six  seedless  raisins,  drain 
peppers  and  fill.  Cover  with  melted  butter,  bread 
and  grated  cheese.  Bake  and  serve  hot. 

Spanish  Cheese  and  Pepper  Fritters 

Heat  and  peel  green  hot  or  sweet  peppers;  re- 
move seed  and  fill  with  salt  and  red  pepper,  mix- 
ture of  cheese  and  bread,  wet  in  tomato  juice- 
half  and  half — fasten  with  toothpicks;  dip  in 
egg  and  roll  in  bread;  fry  in  deep  fat;  serve  with 
Spanish  sauce  and  circle  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  105 

Chiles  Stuffed  With  Cheese 

Mix  half  cup  bread  wet  with  one-half  cup  to- 
matoes and  one-half  cup  Queso  Mexicano  (a 
Mexican  cheese),  tablespoon  onion,  one-half  but- 
ton garlic,  tablespoon  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  one- 
fourth  cup  sliced  olives,  mushroom  or  raisins 
chopped  and  fried  in  tablespoon  lard  until  ten- 
der. Add  the  bread  and  cheese,  when  cool,  stuff 
chiles,  dip  in  the  egg  batter  and  fry  in  deep  fat 
or  saute  in  butter.  To  be  eaten  hot  served  with 

or  wi  thout  sauce. 

» 

Spanish  Onion 

Grind  one  cup  raw  liver  to  a  pulp,  remove 
strings,  add  one  whipped  egg,  one  tablespoon  on- 
ion juice,  one-fourth  cup  cracker  crumbs  wet,  one 
and  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt; 
fill  boiled  onions  (centers  removed) ;  cover  with 
grated  cheese,  cover  and  cook  until  liver  is  firm. 
Remove  cover,  brown  slightly,  serve  with  a  pre- 
pared Spanish  sauce. 

Spanish  Onions 

Brown  two  tablespoons  of  flour  in  two  table- 
spoons butter;  add  two  tablespoons  chopped  on- 
ion, two  tablespoons  sliced  olives,  two  table- 
spoons raisins,  chopped  sour  pickle,  one  table- 
spoon parsley,  two  tablespoons  chopped  nuts, 
one-half  cup  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  cooked 
chicken,  pork  or  veal,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Fill 


106  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

onions  that  have  been  boiled  tender,  and  cen- 
ters removed — pile  high — put  large  lump  cheese 
on  top  and  bake.  Serve  Avith  sauce  made  of  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  two  ta- 
blespoons lemon  juice,  one-half  cup  water  and 
finely  chopped  parsley. 

Spanish  Stuffed  Potatoes 

Rub  lard  on  large  smooth  potatoes.  Bake  un- 
til soft;  cut  off  a  slice  and  cut  out  center  of  po- 
tatoes, add  tAvo  tablespoons  butter,  one  table- 
spoon of  finely  cut  parsley,  two  tablespoons* of 
pimiento — chopped — cucumber,  chopped — one- 
fourth  teaspoon  chile  powder,  two  tablespoons 
hot  milk,  one-half  whipped  egg;  beat  up  until 
light,  fill  potato,  shell.  Place  two  strips  of  bacon 
on  top,  set  in  oven  until  bacon  is  crisp.  Garnish 
with  stripe  of  pimiento  and  parsley. 

Mexican  Baked  Macaroni  or  Spaghetti 

Cook  and  drain  macaroni  or  spaghetti,  two 
cups  of  either;  heat  one-fourth  cup  olive  oil,  add 
clove  of  garlic  and  one-half  cup  chipped  dried 
beef,  cook  until  beef  curls,  add  tablespoon  flour, 
brown,  add  one-half  cup  chopped  mushrooms, 
two  tablespoons  green  chile  pulp,  one  large 
pimiento  chopped  fine,  add  two  cups  tomatoes, 
cook  all  together,  salt  to  taste,  mix  with  mac- 
caroni,  put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  grated 
Mexican  cheese  (Queso  Mexicano),  bake  till 
cheese  is  melted. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  107 

Galabasas  (Summer  Squash) 

Cook  round  summer  squash  in  salted  water  un- 
til tender;  remove  centers.  Mix  with  egg,  bread 
crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  salt  and  chile  powder. 
Fill  center  of  squash,  pile  high,  sprinkle  with 
cheese,  and  bits  of  butter;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Garnish  with  bits  of  red  chile  pepper  and 
chipped  parsley  mixed  with  a  little  hot  butter. 


Finis 

Spanish  Cheese  Fingers 

To  serve  with  all  salads.  Make  very  short  pie 
paste  with  butter,  salt;  roll  and  fold  several 
times,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  chile  pep- 
per; roll  it  into  paste  enough  to  make  it  stick, 
cut  in  strips,  bake  in  hot  oven,  tie  in  bunches 
with  red  ribbon,  garnish  with  sprig  of  parsley,  or 
cut  strips  of  bread;  cover  with  paste  of  melted 
cheese  and  chile  pepper,  toast  in  oven,  serve  with 
salads. 

.  Mexican  Sandwiches 

Remove  seeds  from  chiles,  green  and  red,  if 
canned,  chop  fine;  if  raw,  roast  or  scald  and  peel; 
first  fry  separately  in  a  little  butter,  salt  to  taste, 
little  lemon  juice,  don't  brown.  Spread  between 
layers  of  thickly  cut  white  and  brown  bread 
alternately,  with  one  slice  of  bread  but- 
tered and  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese; 
the  color  effect  is  pretty  when  cut  in  fancy 
shapes  and  served  on  crisp  lettuce  leaf,  or  mix 
red  and  green  chile  together ;  fry,  cool,  add  grated 
cheese,  spread  on  tortillas  that)  have  been  dipped 
in  hot  butter,  roll  lightly,  fasten  with  toothpick ; 
garnish  with  sprig  parsley;  serve  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 


HO  MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES 

Spanish  Brown  Cake 

Cream  two  cups  brown  sugar  with  one  cup 
butter,  pour  around  this  one  cup  sweet  or  sour 
milk,  whip  four  eggs  and  pour  on  top,  add  three 
cups  flour  with  three  teaspoons  baking  powder 
sifted  through,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  mix  and 
pour  into  baking  tins,  sprinkle  top  with  brown 
sugar,  ground  pecans  and  cinnamon  while  raw: 
bake  in  medium  oven.  Or  add  enough  flour  on 
rolling  board  to  make  a  soft  dough,  cut  into  large 
round  buns;  bake  and  spread  with  icing  made 
of  hot  water  and  brown  sugar  cooked  until  thick 
with  pecan  nuts  added. 


Spanish  Chocolate  Cake 

Get  the  Spanish  chocolate,  a  little  round  cake 
about  three  inches  across,  flavor  different  from 
other  chocolate.  Melt  two  cakes,  add  one-half 
cup  butter,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  beat  four  eggs 
separately,  mix  yolk  into  chocolate,  butter  and 
sugar,  beat  well,  pour  one  cup  milk  on  top,  the 
beaten  egg  Avhite  on  top  of  milk,  three  cups  flour 
with  two  tablespoons  baking  powder,  stir  all  to- 
gether, add  teaspoon  vanilla,  bake  in  loaf  or  lay- 
ers, make  icing  of  melted  chocolate  cake,  table- 
spoon butter,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  cook; 
when  cool  spread  on  cake  or  use  as  filling. 


MEXICAN-SPANISH    RECIPES  HI 

Mexican  Candy 

Two  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  wa- 
ter, teaspoon  butter,  cook  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  in  water,  put  pecan  nuts  in  bottom  of  but- 
tered saucers  and  pour  sugar  on  while  hot;  let 
cool  and  there  is  the  little  thin  round  cakes  one 
sees  on  the  street  sold  bv  Mexicans. 


A  TYPE  OF  SPANISH  WOMKN 


ANOTHER  TYPE  OF  SPANISH  WOMEN 


MRS.  HAFFNER-GINGER  IN   HER  KITCHEN 


MRS.  HAFFNER-G1NGER  GIVING  A  LESSON  IN  HOW 
TO  SET  A  TABLE 


List  of  Mexican  Supplies  in 
Mexican  Stores 


As  safron  (Safroin.  used    for    flavoring    meat    and    chile 

dishes. 
Ore^ano  (Mexican  sage),  used  for  flavoring  all  meat  and 

chile  dishes, 
('omiiios  (common  seed),  used  for  flavoring  all  meat  and 

chile  dishes. 
Cilantio  (Cariandos  seed),  used  for  flavoring  all  meat  and 

chile  dishes. 

Fri.joles  Colorado   (pink   lieansV 
Appelito  Marado  (a  blue  .Me.\ic;!ii  bean). 
Belotas  (Mexican  acorns). 
Pinones  (pine  nuts  ) . 

Maize  Blanco   (while  corn),  used  for  Mexican  dishes. 
Ojas  (corn  husk  for  Tamales). 

Queso  de  tina  (cheese  made  of  cactus  sweetened). 
Cueso  Mcxicano  (a  Mexican  cheese  . 
Panocha   (dark  cane  suirar  in  cone  shape  cakes). 
Piloncillo  (light  brown  cane  sutrar  in  cone  shape  cakes  . 
Chile  Colorado  (red  chile),  chile  sauce. 
Hide  tipinos  (small  round  red  chile  used  for  pepper  sauces. 
Pinole  corn  or  wheat  parched  ground  for  Mexican  drink, 

flavored  with   cinnamon   and   sweetened  with   sugar, 

mixed  with  milk  or  water. 
Xixlamal   Mexican  Corn   prepared  old  time  way.   ground 

in  mortars. 

Choriso   (Mexican  sausage  i. 

Jammiello  (Hamirello).  candy  made  of  pumpkin. 
Co.ieta   de   membrio.   preservs   made  of  quinces  and    Pa- 
nocha. 

Cojela   de  camote.  sweet  potatoes  and    panociia.   preserves. 
Tamarindo.  a  dried,  ('mil  in  soak  in  water  and  sweetened 

for  a   drink. 
Tomatillas    a  small  wild  irrecii  tomato. 


Classification  of  Recipes 


Page 

Spanish  Dinner 17 

Spanish    .Menu 21 

Ensaladas  Ivspanol   (Spanish  Salads) 2.~> 

Sopa  Kspanol  (Spanish  Soups) 37 

Tortillas 43 

Enchiladas .">,") 

Chili  Pulps  and  Sauces .">!) 

Pickles  and  Relishes 63 

Chili  ('on  Carne (>•"> 

Tamales  . 68 

Eggs,  Omelets,  Etc 75 

( 'arne  Espanol  (Spanish  .Meats) 81 

Frijoles  (Spanish  Beans  ) !)1 

Arro/  a  la  Espanol  (Spanish  Rice) 97 

Spanish  Stuffed  Peppers  and  Onions 103 

Spaghetti,  Macaroni 106 

Stuffed  Potatoes 106 

Summer  Squ:ish 107 

Spanish  ( 'heese  Fi Hirers 109 

.Mexican  Sandwiches 109 

Spanish  Brown  Cake 110 

Spanish   Chocolate   Cake 110 

Mexican  Candv  .  ,.111 


