Class  —L^/s s i 

Book      C  /^ 
Gop}iigIit};?__ 


COIPVRIGHT  DEPOSm 


The 

Calumet  Cook  Book 


Published  by 

CALUMET   BAKING   POWDER  CO. 

CHICAGO 


TXT  IS 
.Olii 


Copyrisht,  X'iXt 
CALUMET  BAKING  rOWDER  CO 


/ 


OCT  30  1916 
©CI,A4']6158 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

CANDIES 

I  submit  the  following  with  the  caution  that  damp 
or  sultry  weather  will  often  affect  the  making  of  candies. 
Sometimes  a  failure  due  to  these  weather  conditions  will 
discourage  the  amateur  candymaker.  Select,  there- 
fore, a  bright  day  for  your  first  attempt.  After  you  have 
made  certain  candies  once  or  twice  you  will  have  gained 
the  necessary  judgment  to  gauge  the  syrups. 

I  do  not  give  the  directions  for  use  of  a  thermometer, 
as  the  home  candymakers  are  very  seldom  provided 
with  one. 

Fondant  is  the  basis  for  chocolate  creams,  mint, 
sassafras  and  wintergreen  tablets  and  many  other 
candies. 

After  it  is  made  it  is  better  to  let  it  stand  twenty- 
four  hours  before  using.  Set  aside  in  a  bowl  and  cover 
with  a  piece  of  muslin. 

FONDANT  FOR  CANDIES 

MATERIALS : 

2  cupfuls  granulated  sugar     ^  cupful  water 
Some  confectioners  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Boil  the  granulated  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup 
will  spin  a  heavy  thread  when  dropped  into  ice  water. 

Carefully  pour  the  syrup  out  on  large  platter. 
When  cool  enough  to  bear  the  finger  in  it,  stir  the 
mixture  until  white  and  creamy.  Dust  the  bread 
board  or  the  platter  with  the  confectioners  sugar,  turn 
the  mixture  onto  it  and  knead  as  you  would  bread 
dough  until  it  is  smooth.  It  is  much  improved  by 
standing  24  hours.  To  do  this  place  in  a  bowl,  cover 
and  keep  in  cool  place. 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

CHOCOLATE    CREAMS 
To  make  the  chocolate  creams,  shape  the  fondant 
into  required  shapes  and  sizes,  let  stand  half  a  day, 
then  dip  them  into  melted  unsweetened  chocolate. 

PULLED    MOLASSES    CANDY 
MATERIALS : 

Yi  pint  molasses  3     tablespoons  vinegar 

1     pound  brown  sugar  Yz  teaspoon  soda 

Yz  pint  water  Y^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

PREPARATION: 

Put  molasses,  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  stir  the  ingredients  until  they  reach  the 
boiling  point,  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  until 
it  is  very  brittle  when  dropped  into  ice  water.  Stir 
occasionally  and  watch  carefully  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing. Now  add  the  butter  and  soda.  Pour  on  a 
greased  marble  slab  or  into  a  pan  and  when  sufficiently 
cool  to  handle  pull  until  light  in  color. 

Cut  in  desired  shapes. 

BUTTER    CUPS 

The  recipe  for  molasses  candy  may  be  made  into 
Butter  Cups.  Roll  the  candy  into  long  thin  strips,  fill 
the  center  with  nut  cheese  and  place  two  strips  to- 
gether and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  or  shears  into  the 
Butter  Cups. 

NUT  CHEESE 
MATERIALS : 

Ya,  pound  Brazil  nuts  Y2.  pound  figs 

Y^  pound  almonds  Y2.  pound  seeded  raisins 

Y2.  pound  pecans  Ya  pound  dates 

PREPARATION: 

Stone  the  dates,  blanch  the  almonds  and  Brazil 
nuts.  Put  all  through  the  food  grinder,  making  a  soft 
paste. 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

GLORIA   FUDGE 
MATERIALS: 

Yz  cup  Karo  or  corn  syrup     Water  enough  to  barely  dis- 
2     cups  granulated  sugar  solve  sugar 

Whites  of  2  eggs  ^  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION : 

Boil  the  syrup,  sugar  and  water  until  a  few  drops 
will  crack  in  ice  water.  Be  very  sure  that  it  reaches  this 
stage  before  removing  from  fire. 

Have  ready  a  well-chilled  crock  or  bowl  with  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  stiffly  beaten  with  the  Calumet 
Baking  Powder.  Pour  over  the  syrup  in  a  thin  stream, 
beating  all  the  time.  Beat  until  a  spoonful  of  the  mix- 
ture dropped  back  into  the  bowl  will  retain  its  shape 
on  the  surface  of  the  mixture.  Then  pour  quickly  into 
well  greased  shallow  pan  and  mark  off  in  sections. 
When  set,  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  square. 

Chopped  pecans  or  pistachio  nuts  may  be  added  at 
the  last  minute  before  turning  the  mixture  into  the  pan. 
When  properly  made,  it  has  a  porous  consistency  and 
the  surface  will  be  dry,  but  not  tough,  and  it  is  one  of 
the  most  delicious  of  homemade  candies. 

STUFFED   PRUNES 
(A  delicious  Confection) 

Select  from  a  saucepan  of  well  cooked  prunes  as 
many  perfect  unbroken  ones  as  desired.  Drain  them 
and  rinse  quickly  and  drain  again.  Place  them  in  a 
warm  oven  to  dry  off.  Remove  the  stones  and  fill  with 
the  following  mixture : 

Place  in  a  saucepan  one  cup  of  sugar  and  water  to 
dissolve.  Cook  till  the  syrup  will  form  soft  ball  in  ice 
water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  into  it  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  preserved  or  crystallized  ginger  which  has 
been  put  through  a  food  chopper.    Add  enough  chopped 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

pecans  to  fill  the  mixture.     Stuff  the  prunes  with  this 
and  roll  them  in  sugar. 

Fondant,  of  course,  is  better  to  use  for  the  stuffing 
if  a  supply  is  convenient.  But  as  it  takes  more  time  to 
prepare,  the  quickly  prepared  sugar  will  be  found  more 
convenient. 

STUFFED  DATES 

Prepare  the  dates  by  washing  dates  and  removing 
the  pits.    Then  proceed  as  with  Stuffed  Prunes. 

CANDIED  GRAPE  FRUIT  PEEL 

Cut  the  peel  in  quarter  sections.  Then  carefully  peel 
from  the  fruit.  Let  stand  over  night  in  cold  water,  to 
which  salt  is  added,  a  teaspoon  to  a  quart.  Weigh  the 
peel.  Cook  it  in  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Then 
drain. 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  equal  in  weight  to  the  peel 
and  a  half  cup  of  water  to  each  cup  of  sugar.  Skim  and 
put  in  the  peel.  Let  simmer  until  the  syrup  is  reduced. 
Then  cook,  and  very  gently  stir  until  the  peel  is  well 
coated  with  the  syrup.  Spread  the  peel  on  plates  to 
dry. 

ORANGE  STRAWS 
(A  Confection) 

The  skins  of  thick-skinned  oranges  are,  of  course, 
the  best  for  this  purpose. 

Remove  the  orange  skin  in  quarters,  cutting  from 
stem  to  blossom  end.  Cut  these  pieces  in  strips  about 
three-eighths  of  an  inch  in  the  center  and  tapering  at 
the  ends,  following  out  the  original  shape  of  the  section. 
Throw  these  strips  into  salted  water  and  boil  till  tender. 
The  proportion  of  salt  is  one  level  tablespoonful  to  one 
quart  of  water.  This  is  the  critical  point.  They  must 
not  be  soft  or  they  will  be  ruined.  They  must  be 
thoroughly  cooked,  and  yet  must  be  firm  enough  to  re- 
tain their  shape.     A  piece  when  held  up  in  the  hand 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

should  retain  its  shape  and  not  fall  limp.  The  salt  in 
the  water  removes  any  bitter  taste  from  the  inner  peel. 

Skim  from  the  water  into  a  colander.  Rinse  them  in 
cold  water,  drain  and  spread  on  a  towel  to  dry.  The 
drier  the  better. 

Make  a  thick  rich  syrup  of  granulated  sugar  and 
water  as  thick  as  you  can  without  candying.  Into  this 
drop  the  peel,  only  cooking  as  much  at  a  time  as  can  be 
taken  care  of.  When  the  peel  looks  clear  and  as  though 
well  saturated  with  the  syrup,  remove  with  a  skimmer 
and  drain  thoroughly. 

Roll  each  piece  in  powdered  sugar  and  set  on  a 
platter  to  dry.  In  an  hour  it  should  be  perfectly  firm 
and  hard.  It  will  be  necessary  to  add  sugar  to  the  syrup, 
as  the  moisture  from  the  peel  will  cook  out  into  it. 

These  are  delicious  to  serve  with  the  after-dinner 
coffee  or  as  a  bonbon. 

CANDY  FAIRIES 
MATERIALS; 

2  cups  granulated  sugar        1  cup  water 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  2  egg  whites 
PREPARATION : 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  forms  a 
heavy  thread.  Beat  the  egg  whites  very  stiff.  Pour  the 
syrup  over  the  eggs,  beating  all  the  time  until  a  beater 
full  will  retain  its  shape  on  the  surface  of  the  mass.  Then 
add  the  nuts  and  drop  in  spoonfuls  on  an  oiled  paper  or 
platter. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDY 
MATERIALS: 

2  cups  granulated  sugar      %  cup  water 

%  cup  vinegar  1  or  2  drops  of  flavoring 

2    teaspoons  glycerine 
PREPARATION : 

Boil  the  water,  sugar,  vinegar  and  glycerine  together 
until  some  dropped  in  ice  water  will  crack.  Take  from 
the  fire  and  when  ceased  bubbling  add  flavoring. 

9 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Pour  into  a  buttered  plate  and  when  cool  enough  for 
the  hands  pull  until  white. 

MAPLE  FAIRY  HASH 
MATERIALS: 

Yz  pound  maple  sugar  i/^  pound  brown  sugar 

1  cup  pecans  ^  cup  chopped  citron 
Yi  cup  chopped  figs  Yi  cup  seeded  raisins 
Yz  cup  water                             2     egg  whites 

PREPARATION: 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  till 
the  syrup  will  crack  in  ice  water. 

Beat  the  ^^^  whites  very  stiff  and  pour  the  syrup 
over  them  beating  continually,  until  when  dropped  it 
will  hold  its  shape. 

Have  the  fruit  and  nuts  prepared  beforehand  and 
add  them  to  the  mixture. 

Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  buttered  tin  or  paper  and 
allow  to  stand  until  the  outside  is  dry  enough  to  handle. 
This  is  a  very  easily  made  and  satisfactory  confection. 

PEANUT    SQUARES 
MATERIALS: 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  crushed  peanuts 
1  teaspoonful  salt 

PREPARATION: 

Heat  an  iron  frying  pan,  put  in  sugar,  stir  constantly 
until  melted.  Have  peanuts  thoroughly  warmed  in 
oven,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  add  to  the  melted  sugar. 
Pour  into  buttered  pan.    When  cooled  cut  into  squares. 

Other  nut  meats  may  be  used  instead  of  peanuts. 

TURKISH  NOUGATINE 
MATERIALS : 

1  package  gelatine  1  cup  mixed  chopped  nuts 

3  cups  granulated  sugar         Vanilla  flavor 
1  cup  cold  water 

PREPARATION: 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Heat  slowly  on 
your  gas  range.    Add  sugar  and  beat  to  white  cream. 

10 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  mix  thoroughly.    Turn  into 
wet  pan  to  cool.    When  cold  cut  into  squares. 

COCOANUT   KISSES 
MATERIALS : 

3     cups  granulated  sugar        ^  pound  fondant 

^  pound  shredded  1     cup  cold  water 

cocoanut  Vanilla  flavor 

PREPARATION : 

Place  sugar  and  water  in  vessel  on  your  gas  range, 
stir  constantly  until  syrup  begins  to  boil.  Add  cocoa- 
nut  and  continue  stirring.  Test  by  taking  a  little  syrup 
between  thumb  and  finger.  When  it  strings  it  is 
cooked  sufficiently.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  fondant ; 
stir  until  stiff  and  creamy.  Flavor  while  creaming. 
Drop  from  spoon  on  waxed  paper. 

CARAMELS 
MATERIALS : 

2     cups  granulated  sugar        Paraffine  the  size  of  a 
^  pound  glucose  hickory  nut 

1     pint  cream 

PREPARATION : 

Place  sugar,  giucose  and  one-half  pint  cream  in 
vessel.  Put  on  to  cook  and  stir  constantly  while  boil- 
ing until  soft  ball  forms  in  cold  water,  then  add  balance 
of  cream  and  the  paraffine.  Boil  as  before  until  a  firm 
ball  results  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
fire  and  stir  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  pour  out  on 
greased  platter  or  pan. 

To  make  chocolate  caramels  add  grated  chocolate  to 
syrup  to  give  desired  color  when  batch  is  finishing. 
For  strawberry  caramels  use  strawberry  flavor  and 
coloring  after  removing  from  fire.  Add  nuts  if  desired 
just  before  pouring  out  on  pan. 

11 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

AFTER   DINNER   MINTS 

MATERIALS : 

3    cups  granulated  sugar       1  cup  cold  water 
^  teaspoon  cream  of  XXXX  sugar 

tartar 

PREPARATION : 

Place  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  in  vessel 
to  boil.  After  syrup  comes  to  a  boil  let  it  cook  briskly 
for  twelve  minutes  or  to  275  degrees.  Pour  out  on 
greased  platter,  handle  as  little  and  as  carefully  as  pos- 
sible while  cooling.  When  cool,  pull  and  flavor  to  taste. 
Pull  into  narrow,  thin  strips,  cut  into  small  cubes.  Dust 
with  XXXX  sugar  and  leave  spread  out  one  hour. 
Place  in  air-tight  jar  and  let  season  ten  days. 

FRUIT   GUM   DROPS 

MATERIALS : 

2^  cups  granulated  sugar     1^  cups  fruit  pulp 
1^  cups  cold  water  Flavoring 

1       package  gelatine 

PREPARATION : 

Place  sugar  and  two-thirds  cup  of  water  in  vessel 
and  bring  to  boil.  Let  boil  five  minutes.  Add  fruit 
pulp,  let  simmer  until  thick  like  marmalade.  Add 
gelatine  previously  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  cold  water, 
and  boil  up  thoroughly.  Take  from  fire  and  let  cool 
and  add  flavoring.  Drop  from  spoon  on  waxed  paper. 
Let  stand  two  hours.  Roll  in  granulated  sugar,  let 
stand  one  hour,  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar  a  second 
time.    Let  season  two  days. 

Apricots,  plums,  apples,  grapes,  figs  or  prunes  may 
be  used  in  these  drops. 


12 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

SANDWICHES 

SANDWICH    HINTS 

Very  little  ingenuity  is  required  to  provide  a  variety 
of  sandwiches.  It  was  one  housewife's  boast  that  she 
could  serve  a  salad  every  day  of  the  year  and  have  no 
two  just  alike,  and  the  same  may  be  claimed  of  the 
sandwich. 

Supplying,  as  they  do,  both  nourishment  and  appe- 
tizer, the  housewife  should  perfect  herself  in  the  mak- 
ing of  dainty,  nutritious  sandwiches.  Standing  at  the 
head  in  the  list  of  foods,  bread  is  called  the  "staff  of 
life,"  but  it  is  falling  away  from  its  proper  place  in  the 
dietary. 

How  few  children  now  are  satisfied  with  a  piece 
of  bread  and  butter,  neglecting  it  at  the  table  and  re- 
fusing it  as  a  lunch  between  meals.  But  when  daintily 
arranged,  converted  into  sandwiches,  it  appeals  to  all 
and  is  truly  the  "staff  of  life." 

Sandwiches  may  be  made  with  such  a  variety  of  fill- 
ings. Meats,  nuts,  vegetables,  fruits,  eggs  and  cheese 
form  the  basis  for  much  variation.  Through  the  hot 
summer  months  meats  are  not  as  much  used  as  eggs  and 
cheese. 

Appearance  may  demand  the  trimming  off  of  the 
crusts  from  the  bread  slices,  but  it  is  a  wasteful  practice, 
as  the  crust  is  the  best  part  of  the  bread. 

Perhaps  the  following  recipes  will  give  a  hint  for 
variety. 

SANDWICHES  FOR  OUTINGS  AND 

CHILDREN'S  LUNCHES 

In  making  up  sandwiches  to  be  carried  to  picnics 
or  outings,  wrap  each  in  thin  waxed  paper.    This  can 

13 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

be  obtained  at  the  department  stores  and  is  prepared 
expressly  for  this  purpose.  Pack  them  closely  together 
and  lay  some  of  the  large  lettuce  leaves  between  to  fur- 
nish moisture  for  them.    Then  cover  all  with  a  napkin. 

PIMENTO  AND  EGG  SANDWICH 

Make  a  paste  of  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  and 
three  times  the  quantity  of  cream  cheese,  soften  with 
mayonnaise  dressing,  and  add  the  finely  chopped 
whites.  Spread  upon  rounds  of  bread,  sliced  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  in  the  center  of  each 
stuffed  olives  and  around  these  minced  pimentos.  Serve 
on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

CAVIAR  SANDWICH 

Have  some  thin  slices  of  rye  bread  spread  sparingly 
with  butter,  spread  with  caviar.  Serve  on  individual 
plates,  with  a  tablespoon  of  minced  onion  (mince  the 
onion  with  a  knife)  and  a  quarter  of  lemon  on  each 
plate.    A  knife  should  accompany  each  plate. 

ROSE   SANDWICHES 

Use  thin-sliced  bread.  Spread  with  a  very  little 
butter  (or  none)  adding  a  thin  layer  of  cream  cheese, 
then  stiff  raspberry  jam.  Cut  the  bread  from  each  cor- 
ner (diagonally)  across,  twice,  forming  triangles,  or 
with  cutters  in  rounds. 

CHERRY    SANDWICHES 

Mix  equal  parts  of  candied  or  Maraschino  cherries, 
and  chestnuts  which  have  been  boiled,  blanched,  and 
simmered  in  a  little  syrup  (letting  stand  in  this  until 
cold).  Spread  long  narrow  saltines  or  thin  bread  and 
butter  with  the  mixture;  placing  two  together  and,  if 

14 


THE       CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

bread  is  used,  cutting  diagonally  to  form  triangular 
sandwiches.  A  sprinkling  of  cress  will  add  piquancy  to 
the  flavor. 

WATERCRESS   SANDWICH 

Prepare  slices  of  fresh  white  bread  by  spreading 
with  soft  butter.  Mince  some  crisp  watercress,  sprinkle 
it  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  with  olive  or  peanut  oil  and 
then  with  vinegar. 

Toss  with  two  forks  until  all  of  the  leaves  are  sea- 
soned, spread  the  cress  evenly  over  the  slices  of  bread 
and  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Cut  each  slice  in 
halves. 

LETTUCE   SANDWICH 

Thin  oblong  slices  of  buttered  bread  with  a  filling 
of  lettuce  leaves  dipped  in  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
sprinkled  with  Parmesan  or  grated  cream  cheese. 

LETTUCE  SALAD   SANDWICH 

Shred  with  the  shears  some  nice  crisp  leaves  of  head 
lettuce.  Chop  fine  some  chives  or  the  green  tops  of 
onions.  Toss  the  two  together.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  very  little  powdered  sugar. 

Pour  over  the  greens  some  olive  oil,  enough  to  coat 
them  well.  Then  sprinkle  with  vinegar,  just  a  very 
little. 

Butter  slices  of  fresh  whole  wheat  bread  and  place 
each  two  together  with  the  lettuce  filling  between. 
Press  closely  together,  cut  in  three  strips. 

These  sandwiches  cannot  be  kept  fresh  long  and 
should  be  eaten  at  once  to  be  appetizing.  The  bread 
also  should  be  not  over  a  day  old. 

15 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

OLIVE   AND    NUT    SANDWICH 

Cut  and  butter  very  lightly  thin  slices  of  rye  bread. 
Chop  fine  some  pecan  or  walnut  meats  and  some  stuffed 
olives.  Have  twice  as  many  olives  as  nut  meats.  Com- 
bine with  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  the 
bread  with  the  mixture.  Press  two  slices  together,  hav- 
ing the  mixture  between  and  on  the  top.  Serve  on  a 
plate  lined  with  rounds  of  lettuce  leaves. 

RIBBON   SANDWICH 

Take  three  square  thin  slices  of  white  bread  and  two 
corresponding  slices  of  entire  wheat  bread.  Butter 
them  and  place  between  each  two  slices,  the  white  bread 
being  on  the  outside,  a  filling  made  of  egg  paste. 

Take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  crosswise  into  thin  slices, 
each  five,  three  white,  two  entire  wheat,  slices  of  bread 
cut  into  six  sandwiches.  Egg  paste  is  prepared  by 
creaming  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  and  add- 
ing two  tablespoons  of  salad  dressing  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste. 

CLUB   SANDWICH 

Three  slices  of  bread,  toasted  and  buttered  are  the 
basis  of  a  club  sandwich.  Remove  the  crusts.  Place  a 
lettuce  leaf  on  the  lower  slice  and  on  its  top  place  slices 
of  chicken  breast,  and  minced  green  pepper.  Then  put 
another  slice  of  toast  on  top  of  that  with  another  leaf 
of  lettuce  followed  by  thin  slices  of  broiled  breakfast 
bacon  topped  with  the  third  slice  of  toasted  bread.  Fin- 
ish the  sandvv^ich  with  thin  slices  (lengthwise)  of  small 
pickles  on  top  of  the  last  slice  of  toast.  The  toasted 
bread  and  the  bacon  should  be  hot. 

A  small  dill  pickle  sliced  in  five  thin  strips  almost 
to  the  stem  and  the  strips  spread  out  is  another  accom- 
paniment for  a  club  sandwich. 

16 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

SALAD   SANDWICH 

Mix  a  small  quantity  of  mayonnaise  dressing  with 
a  quantity  of  finely  minced  chicken  or  any  preferred 
meat.  Lay  the  salad  between  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and 
cover  with  thin  slices  of  white  bread. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  CHEESE 

(Sandwiches) 

The  fruit  and  nut  cheese  makes  a  sandwich  filling 
that  is  rich  in  nutrition,  is  most  palatable  and  just  the 
thing  for  the  picnic  basket. 

MATERIALS; 

Yz  pound  figs  1     pound  pecans 

Yi.  pound  raisins  1     pound  almonds 

Yz  pound  dates  ^  pound  Brazil  nuts 

Fruit  juice  of  oranges  and  lemons  or  grape  juice  to 
make  a  mixture  to  spread  easily. 
PREPARATION : 

Wash  the  figs  and  dates  and  stone  the  latter.  Blanch 
the  almonds.  Put  all  the  fruit  and  nuts  through  the 
food  chopper.  Mix  with  the  fruit  juice  until  easily 
spread. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  very  sparingly.  Spread 
the  cheese  between  two  slices.  Press  together  and  cut 
in  strips. 

CHEESE   SANDWICH 

With  a  firm  knife  combine  a  rich  cream  cheese  or 
fromage  de  Brie  with  one-third  as  much  butter.  When 
well  creamed  spread  on  thin  slices  of  rye  bread. 
Sprinkle  minced  green  pepper  over  the  cheese,  or  stuffed 
olives  in  slices.  Press  another  slice  to  this,  trim  the 
edges,  cut  once  through  the  center. 

17 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CHEESE   AND    NUT    SANDWICH 

Chop  pecan  or  hickory  nuts,  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  Neufchatel  cheese,  add  a  dash  of  paprika, 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread.  A 
heart  leaf  of  head  lettuce  dipped  in  French  dressing  is 
a  palatable  addition  placed  between  the  slices. 

EGG  MAYONNAISE  SANDWICH 

Hard  boil  sufficient  eggs,  drop  immediately  into  cold 
water  and  remove  the  shells.  Separate  the  yolks  from 
the  whites.  Put  the  whites  through  the  food  chopper 
first,  then  the  yolks.  Mix  with  enough  mayonnaise 
dressing  to  hold  together. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  the  egg 
mixture,  place  a  crisp  leaf  of  head  lettuce  on  it  and  then 
another  slice  of  bread. 

These  are  particularly  dainty  if,  after  putting  to- 
gether, they  are  cut  out  with  a  large  biscuit  cutter. 

GOLDEN   RULE   SPECIAL 

MATERIALS : 

Thin  slices  white  bread  cut     Finely  shredded  lettuce  or 

from  a  large  loaf.  green  pepper. 

Plain  Mayonnaise  or  some     Sliced  radishes 
Thousand  Island  Dress-    Sliced  tomatoes 
ing. 
PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  slices  of  bread  in  two.  On  every  other 
half  spread  the  dressing.  If  plain  Mayonnaise  is  used 
add  a  little  tomato  sauce.  Place  the  half  slices  of 
tomato  in  the  dressing,  sprinkle  with  the  shredded  let- 
tuce and  cover  with  the  other  half  slice  of  bread. 

Trim  the  edges  neatly.  Cut  slices  of  radishes  in 
two,  place  diagonally  across  each  sandwich,  alternat- 
ing the  position. 

Serve  with  curled  or  chilled  celery  hearts. 

18 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PRESERVING 

STERILIZATION 

This  means  the  proper  heat  applied  to  all  vessels, 
covers  and  rubber  rings  to  prevent  contamination  of 
the  contents  of  the  jars  or  cans. 

This  is  imperative  in  the  preservation  of  fruits  or 
vegetables,  when  the  first  named  preservatives  are  ab- 
sent, or  are  present  in  only  small  quantities,  viz:  cin- 
namon, sugar,  salt  and  vinegar. 

No  cooking,  partial  cooking,  and  thorough  cooking, 
represent  the  methods  of  preserving  fruits. 

STERILIZATION  IN   CANNING  VEGETABLES 

Sterilization  is  the  secret  of  successful  canning. 
Vegetables  differ  from  fruits  in  the  sterilization  process 
as  the  form  of  bacteria  which  are  peculiar  to  vegetables 
are  not  entirely  destroyed  in  one  process.  Long  con- 
tinued cooking  may  destroy  this  form  of  bacteria,  but 
in  the  longer  cooking  the  flavor  of  the  vegetable  may 
be  destroyed.   This  applies  particularly  to  tomatoes. 

The  market  supplies  canning  outfits  with  adequate 
directions.  For  the  needs  of  the  small  family,  covered 
kettles,  fireless  cookers  or  the  range  ovens  may  be  used. 
The  wash  boiler  is  as  good  as  anything  for  this  purpose, 
its  only  fault  being  its  awkward  depth. 

If  only  one  pint  cans  are  used,  the  simplest  method 
is  to  make  use  of  the  covered  roaster  and  the  range 
oven. 

Two  processes  are  recommended  in  sterilizing.  The 
first  process  and  the  most  reliable  is  to  boil  the  filled 
glass  jars  three  successive  days.  The  succeeding  days 
boil  one  hour,  bringing  to  the  boiling  point  gradually 
so  as  to  avoid  breakage  of  containers. 

For  canning  of  vegetables  the  glass  jars  with  glass 
covers  and  patent  clamps  are  most  efficient. 

19 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

The  reason  for  the  repeated  cooking  process  is  due 
to  the  presence  of  spores  from  which  the  bacteria  de- 
velop. Spores  may  not  be  killed  or  their  growth  ar- 
rested. It  is  claimed  that  only  when  they  have 
developed  into  bacteria,  and  the  bacteria  killed,  that 
they  are  entirely  eliminated.  The  spores  germinate 
over  night  and  the  second  boiling  kills  this  crop  before 
they  develop  resistent  spores.  The  third  day  cooking 
is  to  make  assurance  doubly  sure. 

A  second  method  of  canning  has  lately  sprung  into 
notice,  which  involves  a  more  complicated  and  less  sure 
method.  The  principle  rests  upon  eliminating  the 
danger  of  spores  by  sudden  plunge  from  extreme  heat 
to  extreme  cold,  and  for  exact  manipulation  would  re- 
quire the  patented  apparatus. 

PRESERVING    HINTS 

Acid  of  vinegar  is  a  preservative. 

Some  fruits  have  an  acid  similar  in  this  property  to 
vinegar. 

Pieplant  and  cranberries  may  be  put  up  in  sterilized 
jars  and  preserved  without  cooking.  The  water  should 
be  sterilized  and  then  cooled. 

Sugar  and  salt  are  preservatives  if  enough  of  either 
is  used. 

Among  spices  true  cinnamon  leads  in  preservative 
property. 

Avoid  the  use  of  special  preserving  compounds,  as 
they  are  sometimes  unsafe  and  always  unnecessary. 

Nothing  is  so  easy  and  effective  as  perfect  steriliza- 
tion. 

CANNING  VEGETABLES 

One  general  rule  must  be  observed  in  putting  up 
almost   all  vegetables,   viz:    Subjecting  them  to  the 

30 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

sterilization  process  at  least  twice  after  the  first  process, 
allowing  twenty-four  hours  to  elapse  between  processes. 

This  is  made  necessary  by  the  later  developments  of 
the  spores  of  some  bacteria. 

Bacteria  may  be  destroyed  in  the  first  process  but 
the  spores  may  not  and  consequently  must  be  given  time 
to  develop  and  then  subjected  to  sterilization. 

CHICAGO   HOT 

A  delicious  relish  requiring  no  cooking. 

MATERIALS: 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes, 

chopped  and  drained 
3  cups  chopped  celery 

2  cups  chopped  onions 

3  red  peppers,  chopped 
2  green  peppers,  chopped 

PREPARATION : 


1 
2 

V^ 

6 

2 


cup  mustard  seed 

cups  sugar 

cup  salt 

cups  cider  vinegar 

tablespoons  mixed  spices 


Put  the  materials  together  and  bottle  without  heat- 
ing. 

HARVARD  CHUTNEY— (Lucas) 
MATERIALS: 


12  large,  firm,  ripe  1 

tomatoes  ^ 

2  medium  sized  onions  34 

1  chili  pepper  1 
12  stalks  celery  1 

2  tablespoons  salt  1 
2  tablespoons  white 

mustard  seed 


teaspoon  celery  seed 
teaspoon  ground  mace 
teaspoon  ground  cloves 
teaspoon  cinnamon 
cup  vinegar 
cup  sugar 


PREPARATION: 

Chop  the  vegetables,  mix  with  ingredients  and  cook 
two  hours. 

Bottle  while  hot  and  seal. 


21 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

MUSTARD  PICKLES— (Lucas) 
MATERIALS: 

2  quarts  small  cucumbers     2    cups  brown  sugar 
2  quarts  small  onions  ^  cup  flour 

2  quarts  cauliflower  54  pound  mustard 

1  gallon  cider  vinegar  1     tablespoon  ground  ginger 

PREPARATION : 

Soak  the  cucumbers,  onions  and  cauliflower  in  weak 
brine  over  night. 

Boil  the  other  materials  and  add  one-half  ounce 
tumeric  powder,  three  teaspoons  curry  powder,  one 
ounce  celery  seed,  three  green  peppers  and  one  chili  pep- 
per. Drain  the  brine  from  the  other  materials  and  mix 
all  together. 

Will  make  about  eight  quarts. 

CORN  RELISH 
MATERIALS: 

1  dozen  ears  of  fresh,  2      tablespoons  cloves 

tender  corn  2      tablespoons  salt 

3  red  peppers  1%  cups  sugar 

1  cabbage  Vinegar  to  cover 

4  tablespoons  mustard 

seed 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  being  careful  not  to  cut 
so  close  as  to  have  pieces  of  the  cob. 

Chop  the  cabbage  and  peppers.  Cover  with  vinegar 
and  boil  one-half  hour.    Bottle  and  seal. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLES— (Lucas) 
MATERIALS: 

1  peck  tomatoes   (green)       Ginger  root,  whole  mace, 
1  cup  salt  cloves,  allspice  and  pep- 

1  cup  cinnamon  bark  pers  as  desired 

3  quarts  cider  vinegar  Tomatoes  should  be  about  an 

2  pounds  brown  sugar  inch  and  a  half  in  diam- 

3  red  pepper  pods  eter 

(in  strips) 
1  tablespoon  white  mus- 
tard seed 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Remove  a  thin  slice  from  the  blossom  end  of  the 
tomatoes  and  the  tough  parts  around  the  stem  end. 
Slice  and  sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  set  aside  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Stand  for  a  few  moments,  then  drain  again. 

Cook  the  other  materials  for  10  minutes,  putting  the 
spices  in  a  piece  of  muslin.  Add  the  tomatoes  and 
simmer  gently  one  hour.  Remove  the  spice  bag  before 
putting  away. 

This  makes  about  four  and  one-half  quarts. 

SHIRLEY   SAUCE 
MATERIALS: 

Yz  peck  ripe  tomatoes  2      tablespoons  salt 

5     medium  onions  3       cups  vinegar 

1    large  green  pepper  V/z  cups  sugar 

PREPARATION: 

Stew  and  strain  the  tomatoes.  Chop  the  onions  and 
green  peppers.  Put  the  materials  all  together,  and  cook 
until  of  the  required  consistency,  then  bottle. 

PINEAPPLE  VINEGAR 
Pineapple  parings  should  never  be  thrown  away  as 
there  is  no  finer  vinegar  in  the  world  in  flavor  and  color 
than  that  made  from  pineapples.  The  fruit  parings 
(fruit  may  also  be  added)  should  be  placed  in  crocks 
and  covered  with  water,  sugar  or  syrup  being  added  in 
quantity  according  to  the  condition  of  the  fruit,  and 
allowed  to  ferment  thoroughly.  When  this  has  been 
accomplished — ^watched  and  skimmed  meantime — the 
vinegar  must  be  strained  from  the  fruit  and  placed  in 
jars  or  bottles. 

CIDER  VINEGAR 

As  apples  are  used  in  the  kitchen,  boil  the  skins  and 
cores  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  sweeten  with  a  little 
molasses,  and  let  ferment. 

23 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Apples  which  are  not  keeping  well  may  be  boiled  and 
the  liquor  strained  off,  a  little  molasses  added,  and  let 
ferment.  With  crab  apples  reduce  the  pressed  juice  one- 
third,  then  treat  as  above. 

APPLE  VINEGAR 

To  one  gallon  apple  peelings  and  cores,  add  two  pails 
boiled  rain  water.  When  soured,  drain  and  to  each  gal- 
lon of  this  liquor  add  one  cup  molasses  and  a  piece  of 
brown  paper  and  two  dry  beans  or  two  kernels  of  corn, 
when  these  sprout,  the  fermentation  begins. 

In  making  vinegar  it  is  a  mistake  to  add  the 
"mother"  until  after  fermentation  is  over  as  the 
"mother"  will  prevent  fermentation. 

VINEGAR 

Vinegar  (Vin  aigre)  as  its  name  implies  was  made 
originally  from  sour  wine  in  which  the  alcoholic  fermen- 
tation had  been  changed  to  produce  acetic  acid. 

This  can  be  done  by  introducing  "mother"  of  vinegar. 
The  true  wine  vinegars  and  the  malt  vinegars  are  the 
safest  vinegars  to  buy.  Cider  vinegar  is  popular  on 
account  of  its  milder  fruity  flavor,  but  if  not  made  in  the 
home  is  apt  to  be  made  from  materials  that  are  distress- 
ingly unclean. 

In  France  and  Germany  pure  vinegar  is  understood 
to  be  made  from  wine,  while  in  England  vinegar  means 
malt  vinegar. 

Tarragon  vinegar  is  white  wine  vinegar  flavored 
with  the  leaves  of  tarragon.  It  is  used  most  frequently 
for  seasoning  sour  sauces  and  for  salad.  Either  the 
green  or  dried  leaves  may  be  used. 

PICKLING  IN  BRINE 

An  old  time  method  of  preserving  some  of  the 
vegetables  for  pickling  holds  very  good  now,  where 

24 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

large  families  or  numbers  have  to  be  provided  for,  and 
also  when  pressed  for  time  in  the  season  when  these 
varieties  are  being  marketed. 

In  the  former  case  there  is  quite  a  saving  of  vinegar 
and  seasonings  and  in  the  latter  it  provides  a  method 
of  preservation  until  more  time  can  be  devoted  to 
pickling. 

Among  the  vegetables  that  can  be  so  treated  are: 
cucumbers,  green  tomatoes,  green  peppers  and  string 
beans. 

Select  small  cucumbers,  small  tomatoes  and  young 
string  beans. 

Put  a  layer  of  salt  in  the  bottom  of  a  large  jar 
or  wooden  keg  and  then  the  vegetables  that  you  wish 
to  keep. 

The  salt  should  be  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Lay  in  layers  alternately  with  salt  on  top. 

Place  a  board  on  top  of  the  vegetable  and  pour 
around  some  water  to  dissolve  the  salt — about  one 
quart. 

A  small  piece  of  alum  will  assist  in  crisping  cucum- 
bers, but  has  no  preserving  quality.  Horseradish  will 
prevent  mold. 

Place  a  cloth  and  then  the  fitted  cover  of  the  vessel. 

When  wanted  for  use  take  out  what  is  required 
and  replace  covers  carefully. 

Soak  in  water  twenty-four  hours  and  then  use 
vinegar  and  spices  as  desired. 

Another  method  is  to  prepare  a  brine  strong  enough 
to  hold  up  an  egg,  pouring  it  over  the  vegetables  after 
the  vessel  has  been  filled. 

CUCUMBERS,   STRING   BEANS,   GREEN   AND 
RED   PEPPERS,  PICKLED   IN   BRINE 

Make  a  brine  of  boiling  water  and  coarse  salt  strong 
enough  to  float  a  fresh  egg.    Place  the  vegetables  to  be 

25 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

kept  in  stone  jars  or  half  gallon  mason  jars,  cover  with 
the  cold  brine.  When  using  stone  jars  it  will  be  found 
necessary  to  place  a  plate  inverted  over  the  vegetables 
to  hold  them  under  the  brine.  Cover  the  jars  but  seal- 
ing is  not  necessary. 

OLIVE  OIL  PICKLES— (Lucas) 
MATERIALS : 

Enough    small    cucumbers     5^  ounce  black  mustard  seed 
cut      cross-wise      into     ^  ounce  white  mustard  seed 
half  inch  slices  to  fill     ^  ounce  celery  seed 
half-gallon  jar  2     onions  chopped  fine,  cold 

Yz  cup  salt  vinegar 

1     cup  olive  oil 
PREPARATION: 

Sprinkle  the  salt  over  the  cucumbers  and  let  stand 
three  hours.    Drain  carefully. 

Put  the  materials  into  two  half-gallon  mason  jars 
in  layers,  alternating  with  the  cucumbers,  spices  and 
onions. 

Pour  over  the  remaining  oil  and  fill  with  cold  vine- 
gar. 

INDIA  RELISH 
MATERIALS: 

24  green  tomatoes  4  tablespoons  salt 

3  red  peppers  4  tablespoons  whole  mus- 

4  green  peppers  tard  seed 

8  large  onions  2  tablespoons  whole  celery 

8  cups  vinegar  seed 

4  cups  sugar 
PREPARATION: 

Chop  and  drain  the  tomatoes.     Chop  also  the  red 
peppers,  green  peppers  and  onions. 
Mix,  cook  and  bottle. 

GREEN   PEPPER   MANGOES 

Cut  green  peppers  in  halves  lengthwise  and  remove 
seeds  and  core.  Lay  halves  together  and  put  in  strong 
brine  for  thirty-six  hours. 

26 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Take  from  the  brine  and  rinse,  fill  each  half  with 
raw,  chopped,  spiced  cabbage.  Place  the  halves  to- 
gether and  tie  with  twine. 

Place  in  a  jar  close  together  and  cover  with  a  hot 
spiced  vinegar.  Pour  off  every  other  day  for  three  days 
without  disturbing  the  peppers,  and  heat  and  return  to 
the  jar. 

PICKLED   WALNUTS 
(Old  English  Recipe) 

The  walnuts  must  be  gathered  while  they  are  tender 
enough  to  run  the  darning  needle  through  them — 
thick  green  outer  rind  and  all. 

Place  them  in  stone  jars  and  cover  with  a  brine  made 
in  the  proportion  of  one  cup  of  salt  to  one  quart  of 
water.  Change  the  brine  every  day  for  three  days. 
Take  them  out,  rub  with  a  coarse  towel.  Lay  in  the 
sun  until  they  are  black,  if  so  desired,  if  not,  place  them 
in  cold  water  for  one-half  day.  Then  wipe  dry  and  fill 
jars  three-quarters  full.  To  each  quart  of  vinegar  allow 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  dozen  each  of  cloves,  pepper 
corns,  whole  allspice  and  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon. 

Boil  the  spices  in  the  vinegar,  ten  minutes,  then 
strain  out  the  spices  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  nuts. 

Drain  off  each  day  for  three  days,  scald  and  return. 
Cover  closely  and  allow  to  stand  a  month  to  acquire 
ripeness  of  flavor. 

FRUITS 

The  use  of  fruit  in  the  diet  is  necessary  for  many 
reasons,  chief  among  them  is  the  dietetic  balance  by 
reason  of  the  acids;  citric,  derived  from  citrus  fruits  as 
lemons,  oranges,  limes;  the  malic  from  apples,  etc. 

It  is  commonly  conceded  that  fruits  are  laxative, 
due  in  large  measure  to  the  salts  in  solution,  and  to  the 
ballast  supplied  by  the  cellulose  which  is  irritating  in 
character,  being  crude  fibre. 

27 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

The  pineapple  has  a  marked  effect  on  digestion  when 
eaten  raw.  Its  quaUty  is  such  that  the  juice  from  fresh 
pineapple  will  prevent  gelatine  from  jellying.  It  di- 
gests the  gelatine.  This  quality  is  destroyed  by  cook- 
ing. 

Small,  imperfect  or  over-ripe  fruit  should  be 
dropped  into  a  kettle  by  itself  and  either  used  for  jams 
or  for  fruit  syrup.  If  for  the  latter  mash  through  a 
strainer  or  ricer,  then  cook  with  sugar. 

Very  seldom  in  jelly  making  is  it  necessary  to  use 
fruit  juice  and  sugar  in  equal  parts. 

A  safe  rule  is  six  cups  of  juice  to  five  cups  of 
sugar. 

Cook  the  juice  twenty  minutes  before  adding  the 
warmed  sugar,  and  then  boil  about  five  minutes  after 
the  sugar  has  been  added. 

Too  long  cooking  of  sugar  with  acid  juice  converts 
the  sugar  into  levulose,  from  which  it  never  will  "jell." 

At  no  time  do  fruits  require  the  care  in  canning  that 
is  necessary  for  vegetables.  The  bacteria  peculiar  to 
fruits  is  such  that  the  boiling  point  reached  in  one 
process  will  entirely  eliminate  it.  Some  fruits,  as  cran- 
berries and  pieplant,  require  nothing  but  cooled,  boiled 
water  and  sterilized  cans  to  preserve  them. 

All  other  fruits  require  simple  packing  of  sterilizing 
cans  with  the  fruit  and  then  filling  to  brim  with  either 
hot  water  or  hot  syrup.  The  tops  are  put  in  place  with- 
out clamping.  The  cans  are  placed  in  a  kettle  or  boiler 
with  a  rack  covering  the  bottom.  Water  should  cover 
two-thirds  of  the  cans  or  jars.  Time  of  cooking  depends 
upon  variety  of  fruit. 

SUGAR  CRYSTALS  IN  JELLY 

The  sugar  crystals  in  jelly  are  formed  sometimes 
when  over-ripe  fruit  is  used.  The  trouble  often  arises 
with  grape  jelly. 

28 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PECTOSE 

Pectose  is  the  property  of  some  fruit  that  makes  it 
possible  to  manufacture  jelly. 

Pectose  is  found  in  larger  percentage  in  ripening 
fruit  than  in  the  over-ripe  fruit,  hence  the  desirability 
of  nearly  ripe  fruit  for  jelly.  In  the  process  of  ripen- 
ing the  pectose  is  changed  to  pectines. 

The  heat  in  cooking  changes  the  pectose  into  pectin. 

The  absence  of  pectose  in  some  fruits  and  berries 
may  be  supplied  by  use  of  apples,  which  contain  a  large 
percent  of  pectose. 

SUGAR   FOR  JELLY 

The  writer  has  not  observed  that  there  is  any  ap- 
preciable difference  between  cane  and  beet  sugar  in  the 
making  of  jelly.  It  is  conceded  that  the  actual  differ- 
ence in  saccharine  or  sweetening  property  is  two  per 
cent.  The  action  in  making  jelly  is  the  same,  as  they 
belong  to  the  same  group,  or  true  sugar. 

FRUIT   JELLY 

The  jellying  of  any  juice  depends  upon  the  pectose 
contained  in  the  fruit.  Pieplant  is  deficient,  hence  the 
difficulty  in  making  it  jell. 

But  let  me  put  you  on  to  a  trade  secret.  Do  you 
notice  the  labels  on  the  store  jelly  read  something  like 
this:  "The  contents  of  this  package  are  pure  juice  of 
strawberries  and  apples  and  cane  sugar"?  Which,  being 
interpreted,  means  that  the  package  labeled  "Straw- 
berry Jelly,"  in  compliance  with  the  Pure  Food  law, 
which  demands  that  the  ingredients  be  printed  on  the 
label,  is  not  pure  strawberry  jelly.  Strawberries  are  de- 
ficient also  in  that  property  of  fruit  known  as  pectose, 
and  apples,  which  are  generously  supplied  with  that 
property,  are  levied  upon  to  supply  this  want. 

29 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Apples,  no  matter  how  tasteless  the  variety,  can 
always  be  relied  upon  to  help  out  the  housekeeper  and 
manufacturer  alike  in  this  respect.  And  for  this  pur- 
pose use  the  insipid  apples  so  that  there  may  be  no  con- 
flict of  flavor.  Fruit  that  is  not  quite  ripe  is  richer  in 
pectose  than  entirely  ripened  fruit,  as  the  pectose  in 
the  ripening  process  is  changed  to  pectin  and  has  lost 
some  of  the  jellying  property.  In  the  absence  of  fresh 
apples  a  young  woman  has  advised  me  that  she  used 
evaporated  apples. 

But  remember  this,  first,  last  and  all  the  time,  that 
the  fruit  juices  must  be  well  cooked,  say  about  twenty 
minutes  or  more  before  adding  the  sugar,  which  should 
first  be  warmed  in  the  oven.  After  adding  sugar  and 
juice  has  returned  to  the  boiling  point,  five  minutes  boil- 
ing is  all  that  is  necessary  in  most  cases. 

The  piquant  delicacy  of  the  fruit  flavor  is  destroyed 
by  cooking  too  long  with  the  sugar,  and  with  a  very  acid 
juice  the  jellying  property  is  destroyed  by  the  turning 
of  the  sugar  in  long  cooking  with  an  acid  into  what  is 
technically  known  as  levulose.  The  sugar  once  turned 
to  levulose  is  deadly  sweet,  but  syrupy  in  its  consistency. 

RED    CURRANT   JELLY 

Pick  the  fruit  on  a  dry  day  before  the  currants  are 
quite  ripe.  Stem  them  and  scald  over  boiling  water  (in 
an  inner  vessel),  then  let  the  currants  remain  an  hour 
over  a  moderate  fire.  Crush  and  pour  into  a  jelly  bag 
and  let  drip  over  night.  Place  juice  in  preserving  kettle 
and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Skin,  and  when  just  at  a  boil 
stir  in  the  sugar,  having  measured  the  cold  juice  and 
allowing  for  each  full  pint  one  pound  sugar  (heated). 
This  should  jell  by  the  time  sugar  is  dissolved,  requir- 
ing never  more  than  five  minutes  active  boiling. 

Place  jelly  glasses  on  a  folded  wet  towel  to  fill  them. 

Another  precaution  against  breaking  is  to  place  a 

30 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

silver  spoon  in  the  glass  as  the  hot  syrup  is  poured  in. 
The  richness  of  this  jelly  may  be  reduced  and  a  more 
delicately  flavored  article  result  by  adding  strained  juice 
of  cooked  apples  or  apple  scraps  to  the  juice  of  the  cur- 
rants. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY 

Use  no  water.  Heat  berries  through  and  press  to 
extract  all  juice.  Strain  and  measure.  To  every  six 
cups  of  juice  measure  five  cups  of  sugar,  putting  the 
sugar  in  the  oven  to  warm.  When  the  juice  has  boiled 
five  minutes  add  the  sugar  and  cook  about  three  minutes 
more. 

PIEPLANT  JELLY 

For  about  every  two  pounds  of  pieplant  provide 
three  apples.  Stew  the  apples  with  the  skins  on,  after 
trimming  away  the  bad  spots.  Cut  up  the  pieplant  with 
a  large  pair  of  shears,  after  having  cleaned  it  well  with 
a  vegetable  brush,  without  stripping  off  the  outside. 

The  pieplant  cooks  soft  in  a  very  few  moments. 
Strain  first  through  a  fine  sieve.  Then  put  the  juice  in 
a  jelly  bag  and  drain  without  attempting  to  squeeze. 
The  pulp  left  in  the  sieve  can  be  used  for  pies,  as  there 
yet  remains  plenty  of  flavor,  and  may  be  canned  hot  for 
future  use  or  made  into  marmalade. 

Work  the  apples  after  stewing  tender,  through  the 
sieve  and  put  the  pulp  into  a  jelly  bag.  As  this  takes 
much  longer  than  the  pieplant  to  prepare,  this  may  be 
made  ready  some  time  before.  Combine  the  juices  of 
the  apples  and  pieplant  and  boil  steadily  for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Having  measured  the  juice,  add  an 
equal  amount  of  heated  sugar,  boil  for  about  five 
minutes.  Test  as  usual  and  when  ready  to  jell  pour 
into  jelly  glasses,  set  upon  a  wet  towel.  Do  not  cover 
and  seal  until  cooled. 

31 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BAR-LE-DUC  CURRANTS 
(Imitation  of  the  imported) 

Use  either  the  red  or  white  currants,  selecting  only 
the  large,  perfect  fruit. 

With  a  fine  invisible,  new  hairpin  remove  the  seeds. 
If  there  is  no  desire  to  take  that  trouble,  prick  each  one 
with  a  darning  needle. 

Heat,  mash  and  strain  all  of  the  small,  inferior  fruit, 
add  it  to  the  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  water  and 
strained  fruit  that  will  jell. 

Put  in  a  small  quantity  of  the  seeded  fruit  into  a  like 
measure  of  the  hot  syrup,  allow  to  boil  up.  Lift  care- 
fully into  glasses,  the  individual  glasses  being  preferable. 
Allow  to  stand  two  or  three  days  in  the  can.    Then  seal. 

SPICED    CURRANTS 

Make  a  jam  of  two  quarts  of  stemmed,  cleaned  cur- 
rants, six  cups  sugar,  two  cups  vinegar,  one  level  table- 
spoon each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one  level  teaspoon 
each  salt,  mace  and  ginger. 

Simmer  until  currants  are  shriveled  and  jam  is 
thick. 

Bottle  or  can. 

CITRON— (Berry) 
Citron  in  its  natural  state  is  almost  useless.  To 
preserve  for  home  use  or  market  it  must  be  dried  and 
this  should  be  done  just  before  the  fruit  reaches  ma- 
turity: while  still  green  yet  well  filled  out.  Quarter  it 
and  place  in  fresh  water  a  day  and  night.  Drain  and  re- 
place water  several  times,  then  boil  for  forty  minutes 
with  a  little  alum  and  handful  of  citron  leaves.  Drain 
from  this  and  boil  in  a  mild  syrup  forty  minutes  longer. 
At  the  end  of  this  time  add  sugar,  pound  for  pound 
(with  weight  of  citron).  Let  this  boil  for  five  or  six 
minutes,  then  remove  fruit  and  cook  syrup  until  thicker. 
Dip  the  fruit  in  it  again  and  boil  as  before,  and  once 

32 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

more  repeat  the  process  before  placing  the  citron  in  the 
sun  to  dry.  Fill  the  hollow  sides  with  sugar  and  let 
fruit  remain  in  the  hottest  sunshine  for  as  many  days  as 
required  to  dry  thoroughly,  filling  the  hollows  every 
few  days  with  sugar. 

CITRON   PRESERVES 

Make  a  heavy  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  three  parts 
sugar  and  one  part  water.  To  each  pound  of  sugar 
allow  two  thinly  sliced  lemons. 

Cut  the  citron  in  large  cubes  and  cook  in  the  syrup 
till  clear.  Remove  to  glass  jars.  Boil  the  syrup  about 
five  minutes  longer  and  pour  over  the  citron. 

This  makes  an  exceedingly  rich,  delicately  flavored 
preserve. 

PRESERVED  GOOSEBERRIES 
Make  a  strong  syrup,  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  a  pint 
of  water.  Pierce  gooseberries  in  several  places,  and 
put  them  in  the  syrup,  then  take  them  from  the  range 
and  let  the  gooseberries  remain  in  the  syrup  all  night. 
Repeat  twice,  reheat,  stopping  just  short  of  boiling 
point,  again  letting  berries  stand  over  night  in  syrup. 

While  still  cold  place  them  in  glass  jars  and  pour  the 
syrup  over  them.  Place  glass  jars  in  water.  Should 
the  berries  seem  to  be  cracking  before  the  water  boils, 
remove  the  jars  at  once  and  seal,  otherwise  let  stand 
until  water  is  at  boiling  point. 

APPLE  JELLY 

Wash  the  apples  carefully  as  the  skins  and  cores 
free  from  bad  spots  are  as  important  as  the  pulp  of  the 
apple. 

Peel  and  core  the  apple,  putting  all  that  is  good  of 
the  scraps  into  a  separate  preserving  kettle.  Add 
enough  water  to  each  kettle  to  half  cover  the  contents. 

Cook  until  tender.  Strain  the  juice  from  the  peel- 
ings and  cores  into  the  apple.       Put  the  apple  pulp 

33 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

through  a  sieve  or  fruit  press  and  then  into  a  jelly  bag. 
Allow  to  hang  and  drain  over  night.  Do  not  squeeze 
too  dry  as  the  remaining  pulp  makes  excellent  stock 
for  apple  pies  and  sauces  or  can  be  made  into  apple 
butter. 

To  every  six  cupfuls  of  juice  measure  five  cupfuls 
of  granulated  sugar.  Place  sugar  where  it  will  heat 
through  without  melting. 

Put  the  juice  in  a  wide  open  kettle  and  boil  rapidly 
about  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  heated  sugar  and  when 
the  syrup  has  again  come  to  the  boiling  point  allow 
to  cook  about  five  minutes. 

Take  a  spoonful  or  so  and  drop  onto  a  chilled  saucer 
to  try.  When  ready  to  jell  place  your  jelly  glasses  on 
folded  wet  towels.  To  further  safeguard  the  glasses 
it  is  well  to  place  a  silver  spoon  in  the  glass  before  pour- 
ing in  the  hot  jelly. 

Another  precaution  is  to  pour  only  a  few  spoon- 
fuls in  each  glass  at  first. 

Do  not  cover  until  cooled,  when  the  glasses  may 
be  covered  with  parafine  or  with  the  glass  covers. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY 

Crab  apples  may  be  made  into  jelly,  the  process 
being  the  same  as  with  apple  jelly. 

APPLE   BUTTER 

Take  the  pulp  remaining  from  the  apple  jelly,  add 
two-thirds  as  much  sugar  as  pulp  and  plenty  of  spices 
if  desired.  Add  sufficient  water  to  thin  to  consistency 
of  sauce.  Cook  until  thick,  which  requires  several  hours 
over  a  slow  fire.  Care  must  be  exercised  to  avoid 
scorching.  The  apple  butter  may  be  turned  into  pint 
economy  jars  and  sealed  as  usual. 
TO    PRESERVE   APPLES   AND    APPLE    PULP 

(Unsweetened) 

Add  sufficient  water  to  apples  or  apple  pulp  to  re- 
semble  apple    sauce.        Cook    until    thoroughly    well 

34 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Close  the  peach  with  tooth-picks  and  stock  two  or  three 
heated   through. 

Sterilize  and  heat  pint  Mason  jars  by  standing  in 
a  deep  pan  of  water  over  the  fire.  It  is  well  to  have  a 
rack  in  bottom  of  the  pan  to  prevent  the  glass  from 
breaking. 

Put  the  rubbers  in  place,  fill  the  jars  with  the  boil- 
ing hot  fruit.  If  the  pulp  has  cooked  quite  thick  it 
may  be  necessary  to  put  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
water  on  the  top  to  insure  no  open  spaces  between  the 
contents  and  the  cover.  Put  on  the  sterilized  covers, 
not  screwing  them  down  completely.  Cover  over  all 
and  allow  to  boil  rapidly  for  half  an  hour.  Then  fasten 
down  the  covers  and  remove  from  pan. 

This  is  an  economical  method  of  taking  care  of  the 
pulp  or  of  apples  for  pies.  The  flavor  is  much  better 
for  pie  or  sauce  making,  when  canned  with  sugar. 

PRESERVED   QUINCES 

Quinces  may  be  preserved  whole,  halved,  quartered, 
or  sliced  across  in  rings.  Cook  the  fruit  till  tender  in 
water  acidulated  with  citric  acid,  then  place  in  a  syrup 
made  with  one  part  of  water  to  three  of  sugar.  When 
at  boiling  point  let  remain  one  minute  if  cut;  if  whole, 
for  five  or  six  minutes,  then  fill  jars  and  seal  at  once. 
This  may  be  varied  with  apples,  or  by  other  fruits  as 
with  Quince  Marmalade. 

PEARS  PRESERVED  WITH   GINGER 
OR  LEMON 

Peel  and  quarter  pears,  weigh  and  allow  a  quarter 
pound  of  green  ginger  (scraped)  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 
Have  a  syrup  prepared  as  for  preserves  and  in  this  lay 
the  pears  and  ginger,  proceeding  as  with  preserves. 
Lemon  peel  may  be  used  instead  of  ginger. 

35 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BAKED  PRESERVED  PEARS 

Any  small,  hard  pears  may  be  baked  for  preserving 
with  the  best  results.  Place  in  layers  in  a  crock  with 
some  lemon  peel;  cover  with  water  and  molasses,  half 
and  half ;  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  all  night  and  bake 
all  next  day  in  a  slow  oven.  Longer  cooking  will  not 
impair  but  improve  if  done  slowly  enough.  The  fruit 
will  become  dark  red  in  color.  Cook  down  the  syrup; 
pour  over  the  pears  when  done  and  the  fruit  has  been 
placed  in  heated  jars. 

PEAR   CHIPS 

Wipe  and  stem  hard  pears.  To  four  pounds  allow 
three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  an  eighth  pound  green  gin- 
ger root  grated.  Slice  thin  in  bits  and  let  stand  twelve 
hours,  then  cook  with  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons, 
letting  come  slowly  to  a  boil  and  cooking  perhaps  three 
hours,  till  clear  and  thick. 

PICKLED   PEACHES 

For  sufficient  for  two-gallon  jar  use  twenty-five 
pounds  of  peaches  and  twelve  pounds  of  sugar.  (Rub 
the  fuzz  from  the  peaches  with  crash).  In  the  preserv- 
ing kettle  place  two  and  one  half  quarts  of  vinegar  with 
a  handful  of  stick  cinnamon,  gradually  adding  the  sugar 
until  all  is  dissolved  and  boiling.  Place  the  peaches,  a 
few  at  a  time,  in  this  and  when  they  are  done  skim  them 
out  and  place  in  a  stone  jar.  Boil  down  the  syrup  a 
little  longer,  then  pour  over  the  peaches  and  place  a 
weight  on  them.  In  three  days  pour  off  the  syrup  and 
boil  down  till  quite  thick.  The  peaches  will  by  this  time 
have  shrunk  so  that  they  will  easily  go  into  a  two- 
gallon  jar.  Pour  the  thick  syrup  over  them ;  place  plate 
on  top  and  tie  down  with  heavy  paper.  Cloves  may  be 
used  instead  of  cinnamon  or  a  mixture  of  spices  as  liked. 

36 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

PEACH    MANGO 
MATERIALS  : 

5%  dozen  free  stone  1  ounce  cassia  buds 

peaches  Cloves  and  stick  cinnamon 

1       ounce  coriander  seed  2%  quarts  vinegar  (strong) 

(slightly  broken)  %     quart  water 

1       ounce  celery  seed  2%  quarts  sugar 

1       ounce  white  mustard  %     pound  crystallized  ginger 

seed  (or  preserved) 

%    ounce  black  mustard 

seed 

PREPARATION: 

Rub  the  peaches  with  coarse  towel  or  brush.  To  re- 
move the  stones  make  a  small  incision  in  stem  end 
and  with  a  small,  slim  tweezers  pull  out  the  stone.  If 
tweezers  or  a  berry  huller  are  not  convenient,  make  an 
incision  from  end  to  end  on  one  side  of  the  peach  and 
draw  out  the  stone.  Fill  the  cavity  with  the  mixed 
seeds,  putting  in  each  peach  two  or  three  cassia  buds 
and  cloves.  Fill  the  opening  in  the  top  of  the  peaches 
with  a  chunk  of  the  ginger.  A  cheap  tin  teaspoon  with 
both  sides  bent  up  makes  a  convenient  scoop  with 
which  to  fill  them.  As  the  peaches  are  filled  pack 
closely,  without  jamming,  in  large  jars. 

Make  a  rich  syrup  of  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  water, 
adding  the  cinnamon  and  un-used  seeds. 

Pour  this  syrup  boiling  hot  over  the  peaches,  turn 
inverted  small  plate  over  the  peaches,  cover  the  jar. 

Pour  off  and  re-heat  the  syrup  three  successive  days. 

You  will  find  after  the  first  day  that  the  peaches  have 
shrunk  considerably,  leaving  an  over  abundance  of 
syrup,  which  may  be  utilized  in  pickling  green  tomatoes, 
crab  apples,  or  other  fruits. 

37 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

FRUITS   PRESERVED   IN    GRAPE   JUICE 
(Miss  Parloa) 

No  sugar  is  needed  when  fruits  are  put  up  in  grape 
juice.  Heat  grape  juice  till  reduced  one-third  (six 
quarts  reduced  to  four  quarts),  then  place  in  it  the  pre- 
pared fruit  (as  for  other  preserves).  Have  it  well  cov- 
ered with  juice  and  slowly  boil  till  the  fruit  is  translu- 
cent and  tender,  when  place  at  once  in  heated  jars  and 
seal. 

PEACH  BUTTER 

Pare,  stone  and  crush  very  ripe  peaches,  and  simmer 
in  boiled  cider  which  has  been  reduced  to  the  thickness 
of  molasses.  To  each  gallon  of  the  cider  (after  boiling) 
should  be  added  a  pound  of  sugar.  To  three  quarts  of 
the  peach  pulp  allow  a  pint  of  the  thick  cider  and  sugar. 
This  may  be  spiced  if  liked. 

PRESERVED   PLUMS 

With  the  common  wild  or  blue  plums  they  may  be 
steamed  or  dropped  for  a  minute  or  two  in  boiling  water 
to  loosen  the  skin,  which  may  then  be  easily  removed. 
After  this  proceed  as  with  other  preserves. 

With  small  plums  prick  the  skins  in  several  places 
with  a  large  needle  to  keep  them  from  bursting,  then 
place  in  layers  in  preserving  kettle,  allowing  same 
amount  of  sugar.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil  slowly;  take 
out  plums  with  skimmer ;  drain,  and  spread  on  plates  in 
sun.  Cook  down  the  syrup  slowly  for  half  an  hour, 
skimming  often;  place  plums  in  this  for  ten  minutes 
(boiling  them).  Drain  and  dry  as  before  and  when 
quite  cold  place  in  jars,  heated,  pouring  the  boiling 
syrup  over  the  fruit  and  sealing  at  once. 

BLACKBERRY  AND  CURRANT  JAM— No.  1 

Take  equal  weight  of  blackberries  and  currants,  add- 
ing pound  for  pound  of  sugar  (and  fruit) ;  no  water ; 

38 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

cooking  slowly  together  till  sugar  is  dissolved,  when 
boil  fast  for  thirty  minutes. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM— No.  2 
If  blackberries  alone  are  used  take  but  three-fourths 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit  and  proceed  as 
above. 

THE  PINEAPPLE 

A  great  mistake  is  often  made  in  peeling  this  fruit 
whole  by  attempting  to  remove  the  eyes  with  the  peel. 
The  pineapple  should  first  be  sliced  across,  rind  and  all, 
according  to  the  thickness  desired,  then  each  slice  taken 
in  turn,  in  the  left  hand,  held  with  the  rind  toward 
one  and  pared  with  the  right  hand  by  means  of  a  slim, 
sharp  knife,  inserting  point  and  peeling  downward, 
close  to  the  rind.  The  eyes  may  now  be  easily  and 
quickly  removed  with  none  of  the  usual  awkward  hack- 
ing and  loss  of  juice  attendant  upon  the  ordinary 
method. 

PRESERVED  PINEAPPLE  (Sliced  and  Cooked) 

Cut  in  slices,  then  pare  the  fruit,  placing  alternate 
layers  of  pineapple  and  sugar  (pound  for  pound)  in 
preserving  kettle.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  one-half 
cup  of  water,  pouring  this  in  after  fruit  is  placed  with 
sugar.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  then  take  out  the  slices 
and  spread  in  the  sun  on  dishes.  Meantime  gently  boil 
the  syrup  for  forty  minutes.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
place  pineapple  again  in  kettle  and  cook  all  together 
for  twenty  minutes.  Then  remove  the  fruit,  placing  it 
in  jars  and  pouring  on  it  the  boiling  syrup ;  seal  at  once. 

PRESERVED  PINEAPPLE  (Uncooked  and  Grated) 

In  the  northern  climate,  which  is  less  trying  to  pre- 
served fruits  than  the  extreme  south,  pineapple  may  be 
grated  and  preserved  uncooked  for  culinary  or  medic- 

39 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

inal  use.  Use  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
grated  fruit  and  let  stand  twelve  hours  in  covered  jar 
in  a  cold  place,  if  possible,  on  ice.  Then  place  in  jars 
which  have  been  thoroughly  sterilized.  As  an  addi- 
tional safeguard  the  tops  may  be  dipped  in  sealing  wax 
or  paraffin. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE  (Without  Sugar) 

Slice,  pare,  and  heat  thoroughly  the  ripe  pineapples 
to  be  canned.  When  boiling  remove  and  place  imme- 
diately in  sealed  jars. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE   (With  Sugar) 

Use  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
shredded  fruit  and  to  each  pint  of  sugar  one  teacup  of 
water.    Heat  through  and  when  boiling,  can. 

BLACKBERRY    CATSUP 
(Delicious  with  Game) 

Cook  berries,  strain  through  fine  sieve.  Do  not  use 
a  bag.  Measure  the  pulp  and  to  every  four  cups  add 
one-half  teaspoon  each  mace,  white  mustard  and  pep- 
per and  one  level  tablespoon  of  cinnamon.  Add  vinegar 
to  taste,  and  cook  until  of  right  consistency.  Bottle 
and  seal. 

CURRANT   CATSUP 

Wash  and  stem  the  currants,  retaining  all  fruit 
whether  very  ripe  or  green  and  undeveloped.  To  every 
half  gallon  of  fruit,  measure  one  quart  of  sugar  and  one 
pint  of  malt  vinegar.  Cook  until  reduced  to  thick  syrup. 
Strain  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  level  tablespoon  each 
of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  salt;  and  one  level  teaspoon 

40 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

each  of  mace  and  pepper.    Boil  ten  minutes.    Bottle  and 
seal. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE   (Not  bitter) 

One  dozen  oranges  and  four  lemons.  Shave  very 
thin,  using  all  except  the  center  pith  and  seeds.  Weigh 
the  fruit,  and  to  each  pound  add  three  pints  of  cold 
water.  Set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  put  on 
the  fire,  and  boil  gently  until  the  rind  is  tender.  Pour 
off  and  set  aside  till  the  next  day.  Weigh  and  to  each 
pound  of  material  add  one  full  pound  of  sugar.  Cook 
until  it  thickens,  then  pour  into  glasses.  One  dozen 
oranges  make  about  sixteen  pints  of  marmalade  and 
require  about  twelve  pounds  of  sugar. 

PINEAPPLE   MARMALADE 

Remove  the  skin  and  eyes  from  the  pineapple.  Then 
grate  the  pulp  from  the  hard  center.  Weigh  the  pulp 
with  the  juice.  Allow  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  the  pine- 
apple. Let  the  pineapple  simmer  over  the  fire  until  well 
scalded.  Then  add  the  lemon  juice.  Have  the  sugar 
heated  in  the  oven,  add  it  to  the  fruit  and  cook  until  no 
watery  liquid  separates  from  the  mass  when  tested  in 
a  cold  saucer. 

Store  as  jelly. 

GENUINE  SCOTCH  MARMALADE— (Copied) 

Take  an  equal  number  of  bitter  and  sweet  oranges 
and  to  each  dozen  allow  three  lemons.  Cut  the  fruit 
as  thin  as  possible,  a  mere  shaving.  Save  the  seeds, 
and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  a  cup  of  water. 

To  every  pint  of  fruit  add  one  pint  of  water.  Let 
this  stand  forty-eight  hours.     Then  boil  quickly  one 

41 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

hour.  Allow  it  to  stand  another  day.  Then  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  add  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Add  the  water  from  the  seeds.  Boil 
slowly  for  two  hours.    Put  away  in  glass  jars. 

TOMATO   MARMALADE 

MATERIALS: 

4  quarts  ripe  tomatoes  1  cup  raisins  (seeded) 

6  lemons  4  pints  granulated  sugar 

PREPARATION: 

Peel  and  slice  tomatoes.  Slice  lemons  very  thin. 
Put  the  materials  into  a  kettle  in  alternating  layers, 
cook  one  hour  and  then  simmer  slowly  balance  of  time, 
till  right  consistency. 

Put  up  like  jelly.  This  recipe  makes  about  two  and 
one-half  quarts. 


48 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

BEVERAGES 

COFFEE 

Explanatory : — Coffee  heads  the  list  of  desirable  bev- 
erages, being  the  most  extensively  used  of  any  food 
beverage  of  the  world. 

Green  Coffee  improves  with  age  under  proper  condi- 
tions. 

Roasted  Coffee  on  the  contrary  deteriorates. 

Roasted  and  Ground  Coffees,  like  most  of  our  food 
products,  were  for  years  badly  adulterated,  but  that 
condition  has  been  largely  changed  with  the  advent  of 
our  food  laws.  Our  greatest  protection  is  in  a  sealed 
package  with  the  manufacturers  name  on  the  label. 

COFFEE  CHAFF 

Coffee  processes  in  the  last  decade  have  disclosed 
the  means  of  eliminating  the  undesirable  chaff  to  which 
was  laid  the  only  real  objection  to  coffee  effects,  as  the 
chaff  contains  the  tannin,  the  effect  of  which,  in  coffee, 
has  been  considered  injurious. 

The  ordinary  grinding  process  of  a  decade  ago  has 
undergone  a  revolution  to  the  vast  improvement  of  cof- 
fee. The  better  grades  are  now  steel  cut  into  uniform 
size  instead  of  crushed  into  large  and  small  particles 
and  dust.  This  process  has  been  the  means  of  stan- 
dardizing coffee. 

Price  in  a  measure  determines  the  quality. 

COFFEE  ECONOMY 

It  is  economy  to  use  pulverized  coffee  of  high  grade 
rather  than  cheap  grade  coffee  coarsely  or  indifferently 
ground. 

43 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

GROUND  CHICORY 

is  an  improvement  to  cheap  or  inferior  coffee  so  long  as 
the  housewife  mixes  it  with  the  coffee  herself.  Not 
everyone  can  afford  to  purchase  high  priced  foods. 
Therefore,  we  advise  that  ground  chicory  root  (which 
resembles  ground  coffee)  can  be  purchased  of  tea  and 
coffee  merchants. 

METHOD: — Add  six  level  tablespoons  of  ground 
chicory  root  to  each  pound  of  ground  coffee,  mixing 
well.    Make  coffee  in  the  usual  way. 

COFFEE  PERCOLATORS 

These  standardize  the  coffee  to  be  served,  as  they 
compel  accurate  measurement. 

LEFT-OVER  COFFEE 

Good  coffee  may  be  kept  hot  for  some  time  provided 
the  grounds  are  removed ;  properly  made  coffee  may  be 
reheated  if  poured  off  the  grounds  before  setting  it 
away.  There  is  no  reason  why  a  housewife  who  would 
carefully  put  away  a  thimbleful  of  butter  left  on  a  plate 
should  throw  away  two  or  three  cups  of  left-over  coffee. 

METHOD : — Pour  the  coffee  from  the  grounds  and 
set  away.  When  coffee  is  prepared  for  the  following 
meal,  make  the  measure  less  by  the  amount  of  left-over 
coffee.  Make  coffee  in  usual  way.  Reheat  but  do  not 
boil  the  cold  coffee  and  when  the  regular  coffee  is  ready 
for  the  table  add  the  reheated  coffee  to  it. 

PERFECT  COFFEE 

Select  a  good  quality  of  coffee,  not  necessarily  the 
highest  priced.  Have  the  coffee  ground  fine  and  uni- 
form, steel  cut  preferred.  Supply  yourself  with  a  granite 
coffee  pot  with  a  white  lining  or  one  of  aluminum,  al- 
ways keeping  it  as  sweet  and  clean  as  your  dinner  plates. 

44 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

For  six  persons  place  six  rounding  tablespoons  of  coffee 
in  the  coffee  pot.  Pour  over  the  coffee  three  pints  (six 
cups)  of  boiled  water.  Place  over  a  gentle  flame  and 
simmer  five  minutes  after  reaching  the  boiling  point. 
Then  mix  about  two  teaspoons  of  egg  in  one-half  cup 
of  cold  water  and  pour  into  the  coffee  to  clear. 

To  secure  the  perfect  beverage  it  is  absolutely  nec- 
essary to  immerse  the  coffee  and  simmer  in  order  that 
the  essential  oil  and  flavor  of  the  berry  be  extracted. 
Some  particular  persons  heat  the  ground  coffee  slightly 
before  adding  the  water. 

Coffee  made  in  a  metal  vessel  and  permitted  to  stand 
forms  tannate  of  iron,  or  ink,  so  to  speak. 

CAFE  NOIR 
(After  Dinner  Coffee) 

After  dinner  coffee  is  stronger  and  richer  than  that 
made  for  the  breakfast  table,  and  is  served  clear,  al- 
though cream  may  be  passed  with  the  sugar. 

When  Cognac  or  Petit  Brule  is  served  with  the  after 
dinner  coffee,  cream  is  entirely  out  of  place. 

When  Cognac  is  served  with  the  black  coffee,  the 
loaf  or  domino  sugar  is  placed  in  the  spoon  over  the  cup 
of  coffee,  and  the  Cognac  is  poured  over  the  sugar  and 
a  lighted  match  touched  to  it.  When  burned  away,  the 
spoon  and  contents  are  dipped  into  the  cup.  This  car- 
amelizes the  sugar  and  when  added  to  the  coffee  imparts 
to  it  a  special  flavor  that  is  very  appropriate  after  a 
heavy  dinner. 

CREOLE    COFFEE 

A  popular  method  of  serving  coffee  has  come  to  us 
from  the  South. 

A  very  rich  black  coffee  is  prepared. 

The  tray  is  brought  to  the  table  holding  the  coffee 
urn  with  another  urn  of  boiling  milk.  With  these  are 
the  cut  loaf  or  domino  sugar  and  a  pitcher  of  cream. 

45 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

The  boiling  milk  is  first  poured  into  the  cup  and 
then  the  steaming  black  coffee.  The  proportion  is 
usually  one  part  boiling  milk  to  two  parts  coffee,  or 
about  half  as  much  milk  as  coffee.  Then  the  cream  is 
added  last.    Sugar  also  is  taken  if  desired. 

This  gives  a  delicious  coffee  almost  the  consistency 
of  cream. 

PETIT   BRULE 

Select  tough  skinned  oranges.  Cut  them  in  halves 
crosswise.  Loosen  the  pulp  from  the  skin  without 
breaking  the  skin,  turning  the  skin  inside  out. 

The  top  may  be  notched  in  small  Van-dyke  points, 
but  it  is  not  necessary. 

The  orange  shell  thus  formed  is  placed  inside  out  on 
a  small  plate.  A  small  stick  of  cinnamon  and  two  or 
three  cloves  are  placed  in  it  with  two  lumps  of  sugar 
and  placed  before  each  diner  when  the  black  coffee  is 
brought  to  the  table. 

Cognac  is  passed  and  enough  to  saturate,  but  not 
drown  the  sugar,  is  poured  over  the  sugar.  A  lighted 
match  is  then  touched  to  the  sugar. 

When  all  the  alcohol  is  burned  away  from  the 
brandy,  the  contents  of  the  orange  cup  are  turned  into 
the  black  coffee. 

The  little  ceremony  of  preparing  the  Petit  Brule  is 
a  charming  finish  to  a  social  dinner. 

TEA 

Scald  the  pot.  Remove  the  water,  and  put  in  a  level 
teaspoon  of  good  tea  to  each  cup  of  water.  Take  the 
water  at  its  first  boil.  Cover  the  pot  with  a  cozy  and 
stand  it  away  from  the  fire  for  five  minutes.  Stir  the 
tea  and  pour  at  once. 

The  ordinary  English  tea  cozy,  a  sort  of  padded  cap, 
is  to  be  recommended. 

46 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CAUTION: — Tea  must  not  be  made  over  the  fire, 
nor  should  it  be  made  in  a  metal  pot.  The  tannic  acid 
acts  on  the  metal,  destroys  the  flavor  of  the  tea  and 
makes  the  infusion  unwholesome. 

LEMON  WITH  BLACK  TEA  serves  a  certain 
dietetic  purpose.  "This  is  not  a  mere  fad  or  'foreign 
fashion,'  there  is  a  scientific  reason  beneath  the  surface. 
The  citric  acid  of  the  fruit  offsets  the  tannic  acid  of  the 
tea,  rendering  it  refreshing  and  wholesome.  It  is  need- 
less to  add  that  black  tea  be  used,  not  the  green  or 
mixed." — R.  M.  Fletcher  Berry. 

CHOCOLATE 

"To  make  one  quart  of  chocolate,  put  into  a  saucepan 
four  rounding  teaspoons  of  grated  chocolate.  Add  a 
half  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  while,  until 
the  mixture  reaches  boiling  point.    Boil  just  a  moment. 

Add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  and  three  round- 
ing tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
milk  is  very  hot.  Take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  heated 
chocolate  pot  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

In  the  absence  of  whipped  cream,  which  is  not  al- 
ways available,  a  marshmallow  is  placed  in  each  cup 
and  the  chocolate  poured  around  it. 

Plain  cream  is  passed  in  a  pitcher. 

The  chocolate  is  very  often  made  with  water  omit- 
ting the  milk  entirely." — R.  M.  Fletcher  Berry. 

COCOA— No.  1 

Cocoa  and  chocolate  contain  starch.  Both  should 
be  boiled. 

Allow  two  round  teaspoons  of  cocoa  to  each  pint 
of  liquid.  To  make  one  quart  put  four  round  teaspoons 
of  cocoa  in  a  double  boiler,  and  add  one  pint  of  hot  water. 
Stir  until  the  cocoa  is  melted  and  hot.    Then  add  one 

47 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

pint  of  boiling  water.  Beat  and  stir  rapidly  until  the 
water  in  the  under  boiler  again  reaches  the  boiling 
point. 

Turn  into  a  chocolate  pot  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

In  the  absence  of  whipped  cream,  which  is  not 
always  available,  place  a  marshmallow  in  each  cup. 
Pour  the  chocolate  around  it.  Pass  plain  cream  in  a 
pitcher. 

COCOA— No.  2 

To  make  one  quart  of  cocoa  put  into  a  saucepan  four 
rounding  teaspoons  of  cocoa.  Add  a  half  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  all  the  while,  until  the  mixture 
reaches  boiling  point.    Boil  just  a  moment. 

Add  one  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  and  three  round- 
ing tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  stir  constantly  until  the 
milk  is  very  hot.  Take  from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  heated 
chocolate  pot  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  or  pour 
over  a  marshmallow  in  each  cup. 

Both  chocolate  and  cocoa  may  be  flavored  with 
vanilla  if  desired. 

BEEF  TEA  (To  Serve) 

Beef  tea  or  beef  extract,  when  ready  to  serve,  may 
be  served  warm  or  iced  and  may  have  the  addition  of 
port  wine  or  diluted  with  cream  or  hot  water  and  sea- 
soned to  suit  the  taste. 

Properly  prepared  it  must  not  reach  over  110  de- 
grees Fahr.  or  the  juice,  being  like  the  white  of  an  egg, 
will  coagulate  and  harden  or  curdle.  This  is  undesir- 
able as  it  is  harder  to  digest  although  losing  none  of  its 
nutriment. 

Select  the  round  of  beef  as  the  meat  from  the  round 
contains  more  nutritive  juices. 

48 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BEEF  TEA— No.  1 
MATERIALS : 

1  pound  round  steak  Salt  to  taste 

PREPARATION : 

Trim  off  all  the  fat,  cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in 
fruit  jar  and  place  in  kettle  of  cold  water. 

Bring  to  very  near  the  boiling  point  and  hold  at  that 
heat  for  three  or  four  hours. 
Strain  and  salt  to  taste. 

BEEF  TEA— No.  2 

Lean  of  round  of  beef  cut  into  small  pieces  or  put 
through  the  food  chopper.  Barely  cover  with  cold 
water  and  allow  to  stand  one-half  hour. 

Place  on  the  back  of  range  or  in  warm  place  where 
the  juice  will  be  slowly  drawn  out.  Put  into  a  ricer 
and  squeeze  thoroughly.  Place  the  juice  in  a  cup  in 
warm  water  until  it  loses  its  bright  red  color. 

Keep  the  water  below  boiling  point. 

BEEF  TEA— No.  3 

Place  one  round  of  thick  round  steak  on  the  broiler 
for  ten  minutes,  turning  every  ten  seconds  to  prevent 
the  juice  escaping.  Remove  to  a  warm  platter  and  cut 
into  small  pieces. 

Put  into  fruit  press  or  ricer  and  extract  all  of  the 
juice.  Then  put  the  juice  or  extract  into  a  cup  and  this 
cup  into  a  dish  of  warm  water  until  it  is  the  right 
color.    Season  to  taste. 

BEEF  TEA   FRAPPE 

Ordinary  beef  tea  becomes  so  monotonous  to  the 
invalid  through  the  hot  summer  days,  when  even  the 
appetites  of  the  well  are  jaded,  this  f rappe  will  be  found 
very  grateful. 

To  one  cup  of  beef  tea  add  the  stiffly  beaten  white 
of  one  eggy  put  into  freezer  until  it  becomes  the  con- 

49 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

sistency  of  wet  snow.    This  should  be  made  in  the  glass 
freezer  if  possible. 

LEMONS   IN   DRINKS 

"When  one  is  forty  miles  from  a  lemon,  one  may  still 
have  'lemonade'  by  using  citric  acid  in  crystals  or  pul- 
verized, with  or  without  a  pure  lemon  tincture  as  flavor- 
ing. No  ill  effects  can  accrue  from  using  this  acid  in 
such  trifling  quantity  as  required  to  make  tart  a  drink 
or  pudding  sauce.  It  cannot  completely  take  the  place 
of  the  fruit  juice,  but  as  it  is  the  acid  found  in,  and 
taken  from  the  fruits  of  the  citrus  family,  it  can  be  sub- 
stituted, therefore,  if  necessary,  in  moderation  without 
harm." — R.  M.  Fletcher  Berry. 

NECTAR 

To  one  pint  of  unfermented  grape  juice  add  the  juice 
of  two  lemons  and  two  oranges,  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
one  quart  of  water.  When  mixed  add  a  sprig  or  two 
of  mint. 

EGG   PUNCH 
(Invalid  Punch) 

Into  an  iced  glass  put  one-quarter  cup  of  grape 
juice  with  an  equal  quantity  of  shaved  ice.  To  this  add 
the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  whip  in.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar. 

EGG   LEMONADE   WITH    SHERRY 

MATERIALS: 

4  lemons  2  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  Pinch  salt 

1  cup  sherry 

PREPARATION : 

Slice  the  lemons  very  thin  into  a  pitcher  with  the 
sugar.  Pour  over  three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Stand 
one  hour.     Strain  and  add  the  sherry.     Whip  up  the 

50 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

eggs,  separating  whites  from  the  yolks,  adding  the 
pinch  of  salt.  Whip  altogether  into  the  other  mixture. 
Place  in  refrigerator  until  chilled. 

CIDER  EGG  NOG 

To  one  egg  whipped,  then  slightly  sweetened  with 
sugar,  allow  one  glass  of  cider.  Sprinkle  with  grated 
nutmeg  and  serve  with  shaved  ice.    Or  serve  hot. 

APPLE  WATER 

"A  cooling  drink  in  fevers" 

Pare  and  core  three  large  juicy  pippins  and  slice 
them  into  a  pitcher  or  crock  with  the  grated  rind  of 
lemon.  On  this  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  then 
cover  close  and  let  stand  for  hours.  Strain  and  sweeten 
with  loaf  sugar. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  ICED  FRUIT 
BEVERAGES 

For  the  making  of  punches,  lemonades,  cold  or 
frapped  sweetened  beverages,  it  is  much  more  satis- 
factory to  boil  the  sugar  either  with  the  fruit  juice  or 
with  water  to  form  a  syrup.  Less  sugar  is  required 
and  a  better  flavor  is  secured. 

For  picnics  or  traveling  make  a  syrup  of  the  juice 
of  lemons  and  sugar.  This  can  be  carried  in  a  bottle 
and  is  always  ready  for  instant  use. 

FRUIT  MINT  JULEP— No.  1 

Boil  together  for  ten  minutes  three  pints  of  water 
and  one  pound  and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar.  Add  to 
this  one  packed  cup  of  chopped  mint  leaves.  Cover  and 
let  stand  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  and  cool.  Add  to 
this  the  strained  juice  of  one  dozen  lemons,  one  cup  and 

51 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

a  half  of  strained  orange  and  strawberry  juice  and  let 
all  stand  an  hour.  Pour  into  a  punch  bowl  containing 
a  large  piece  of  ice,  add  a  bottle  of  Apollinaris  and  gar- 
nish with  cherries  and  sprigs  of  mint. 

MINT  JULEP— No.  2 

To  the  juice  of  three  oranges  add  twelve  sprigs  of 
mint  which  have  been  chopped  and  bruised  to  a  pulp, 
add  powdered  sugar  or  syrup  of  granulated  sugar  suffi- 
cient to  sweeten.  Allow  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  strain. 

Throw  in  some  twisted  chips  of  lemon  and  orange 
peel  and  add  three  cups  of  plain  or  effervescent  water. 

If  this  is  to  be  served  in  glasses  with  chipped  ice,  use 
less  water  and  place  a  twisted  chip  of  lemon  and  orange 
peel  in  each  glass  instead  of  in  the  pitcher. 

ORANGE    PUNCH 
MATERIALS : 

4  oranges  1  pound  sugar 

1  lemon  Apollinaris 

PREPARATION : 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  from  two  oranges,  add  the 
gratings  to  the  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  water.  Stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  five  minutes  after  it 
reaches  the  boiling  point.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cold  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  oranges.  When 
ready  to  serve  turn  into  a  punch  bowl,  add  cracked  ice 
and  sufficient  Apollinaris  or  clear  water  to  make  pala- 
table, about  one  quart. 

DANDELION    CORDIAL 

MATERIALS: 

4  quarts  dandelion  bios-  4  pounds  white  sugar 

soms     without     the  3  oranges 

stems  2  lemons 

4  quarts  boiling  water  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

52 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Scald  the  blossoms  with  the  boiling  water;  allow 
to  stand  three  days,  squeeze  and  strain. 

Slice  the  oranges  and  lemons  very  thin,  put  all  of 
the  materials  together  in  a  stone  jar,  dissolving  the 
yeast  in  a  little  water.  Allow  to  stand  three  days. 
Strain  and  put  into  bottles  or  jugs  to  ferment. 

Leave  them  uncorked  and  keep  them  full  to  the  top 
so  that  the  froth  may  be  thrown  off.  To  keep  the  bot- 
tles or  jugs  full  add  cold  water  from  day  to  day.  In 
about  six  weeks  the  cordial  is  ready  to  bottle.  Drop 
two  or  three  raisins  in  each  bottle.    Cork  tightly. 

DOMESTIC    KIRSCHWASSER 

Pour  a  gallon  of  brandy  over  a  pound  of  garden  or 
wild  ripe  cherries  or  plums,  crushing  well  both  fruit 
and  kernels.  Add  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  let  stand 
five  weeks,  when  strain  and  bottle. 

PERRY 

Perry  bears  the  same  relation  to  pears  that  cider 
does  to  apples,  being  the  expressed  juice  of  the  fruit. 
Perry  may  be  made  from  the  ordinary  pear,  the  better 
one  of  the  windfalls  or  unsalable  "nubbins,"  but  there 
are  certain  varieties  known  in  general  as  "perry"  pears, 
grown  especially  for  this  purpose.  These  varieties  lack 
in  fragrance  and  edible  qualities,  being  vigorously 
harsh,  but  they  are  much  prized  in  Germany,  France, 
and  England,  where  numerous  perry  orchards  are  set 
out.  The  fermented  perry  is  considerably  superior  to 
cider  in  richness  and  sweetness.  It  contains  seven  per 
cent  of  alcohol  (Enc.  Brit.)  and  will  keep  in  casks  for 
three  years — when  bottled,  longer,  but  it  does  not  bear 
shipment  as  well  as  might  be  desired. 

S3 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

RED   CURRANT  WINE 

To  a  quart  each  of  currant  juice  and  sugar  allow  two 
quarts  of  water.  Pour  into  stone  jugs  and  allow  to  fer- 
ment, keeping  the  jug  full  so  that  the  froth  will  con- 
tinually bubble  over  until  fermentation  has  ceased. 

Strain  and  bottle. 

GOOSEBERRY    WINE 

Use  fully  grown  but  not  thoroughly  ripened  ber- 
ries, removing  blossoms  and  stems  and  bruising  fruit 
without  crushing  seeds  or  skins.  To  twenty  pounds 
of  berries  add  two  gallons  rain  water,  stirring  and 
mashing  fruit  until  it  is  cleared  from  the  skin.  Let 
stand  six  hours  then  strain  free  of  seeds  and  skins  and 
bring  resulting  juice  to  a  boil.  Have  dissolved  fifteen 
pounds  sugar  and  add  this  to  juice  as  it  heats.  Mean- 
time let  seeds  and  skins  be  soaking  in  a  gallon  of  water. 
When  the  sugar  and  first  liquor  are  at  boiling  point  add 
this  second  quantity,  strained.  Measure  it  all  and  add 
sufficient  water  to  bring  whole  quantity  up  to  five  gal- 
lons. Let  this  ferment  in  cask,  covering  bunghole  with 
cheese  cloth  and  allowing  room  for  fermentation. 
When  this  has  ceased,  stop  the  bung  and  let  wine  stand 
six  or  seven  months  before  using. 

RASPBERRY    CORDIAL 

Fill  stone  jar  with  ripe  berries;  cover  close  and  let 
stand  where  it  will  heat  gently  till  fruit  breaks  itself. 
Squeeze  juice  through  linen  bag  and  to  each  quart  allow 
one  pound  of  sugar.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil  and  skim 
well  till  scum  ceases  to  rise,  when  remove  from  stove 
and  put  again  through  linen  bag,  pouring  into  a  crock 
with  brandy  in  equal  proportion  to  juice.  Stir,  and 
when  cold  place  in  demijohn  and  cork  for  two  weeks, 
when,  if  not  clear,  filter,  then  bottle  and  seal. 

54 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE— No.  1 

Heat  the  thoroughly  ripe  grapes  slowly — in  a  double 
boiler  or  crock — on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  a  slow 
oven.  When  the  skins  are  tender  strain  through  cheese 
cloth  bag  without  squeezing.  When  juice  has  been  re- 
placed on  stove  and  is  at  boiling  point,  add  half  as  much 
sugar  as  juice.  Let  dissolve  perfectly  then  seal  while 
hot. 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE— No.  2 

Wash,  crush,  and  heat  the  fruit,  simmering  for  thirty 
minutes.  Crush  again,  strain,  and  squeeze  hard  through 
a  bag.  Replace  juice  on  stove,  boil  and  skim,  then 
add  one-fourth  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice, 
and  boil  about  six  minutes.  Fill  heated  bottles  and 
seal  at  once. 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE— No.  3 

(Without  Sugar) 

Mash,  heat,  and  press  grapes.  Have  bottles  ready 
on  a  false  wooden  bottom  in  a  large  boiler.  Fill  bot- 
tles with  the  cooled  juice,  pour  cold  water  in  the  boiler 
up  to  the  necks  of  the  bottles,  let  the  whole  heat,  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes.  As  the  juice  may  evaporate  the 
bottles  should  be  filled  up  from  one  special  bottle. 
Cork  and  seal  while  hot. 

UNFERMENTED  GRAPE  JUICE— No.  4 

(Without  Sugar) 

A  second  method  of  preserving  the  juice  without 
sugar  is  to  mash  the  fresh  grapes  before  heating  them. 
Strain  off  the  juice,  then  heat  to  boiling  point  as  above. 

55 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

RASPBERRY   ROYAL 

Use  four  quarts  of  best  berries.  Pour  over  them  one 
quart  cider  vinegar  and  add  one  pound  sugar,  mashing 
all  to  a  paste.  Let  stand  in  sun  four  hours,  when  strain 
off  juice  and  add  one  pint  brandy.    Bottle  and  seal. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL— No.  1 

Crush  and  strain  berries,  allowing  for  each  quart 
one-half  pound  sugar,  a  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and 
cinnamon  (powdered)  and  a  grated  nutmeg.  Boil  all 
together  fifteen  minutes;  cool,  and  for  each  quart  of 
syrup  add  one-half  pint  brandy.    Bottle. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL— No.  2 

To  three  pounds  uncooked  berries  allow  one  pound 
white  sugar  and  let  stand  twelve  hours.  Then  press 
and  strain,  adding  one-third  rum  or  brandy  and  allow- 
ing one  teaspoon  allspice  (powdered)  to  each  quart  of 
cordial.  It  must  be  bottled  some  time  before  it  is  fit 
for  use. 

ORIENTAL  PUNCH 
MATERIALS : 

1  ounce  Ceylon  or  India  1  teaspoon  of  rose  water 

tea  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  pounds  sugar  3  ripe  bananas 

6  lemons  1  pint  grape  juice 

2  oranges  3  quarts  Apollinaris 

1  pint  grated  pineapple 

1  teaspoon  bitter  almond 
extract 
PREPARATION : 

Put  the  tea  into  a  pitcher,  cover  with  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water,  cover  the  pitcher  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
strain.  Grate  the  yellow  rind  from  half  the  lemons  and 
oranges,  add  the  gratings  to  the  sugar.  Put  the  sugar 
in  a  saucepan,  add  the  tea  infusion,  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  bring  to  boiling  point. 

56 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

Strain  into  a  stone  or  glass  jar  and  stand  aside  over 
night.  Next  morning  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and 
oranges,  and  all  the  other  materials,  with  the  exception 
of  the  Apollinaris. 

When  ready  to  serve,  turn  this  into  a  punch  bowl 
over  a  good  sized  block  of  ice,  add  the  Apollinaris  water 
and  serve. 

This  may  be  varied  by  adding  a  bottle  of  ginger  ale 
instead  of  the  grape  juice. 

CURRANT   SHRUB 

Strain  currant  juice  and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  for 
each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  five  minutes,  then  stir  cool. 
Bottle  in  sterilized  bottles  and  seal,  or  cork.  Old- 
fashioned  proportion  is  one  tablespoon  to  each  glass  of 
water.  Another  shrub  calls  for  a  wineglass  of  brandy 
to  each  pint  of  syrup. 

GINGER    SHRUB 

This  is  an  old-time  hot  weather  drink  which  has 
undergone  as  many  changes  as  the  seasons. 

Tie  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  Jamaica  ground  ginger 
in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth.  Put  this  into  a  quart  of  cold 
water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  the  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  place  where  it  will  chill.  When  ready  to 
serve,  fill  punch  glasses,  in  which  have  been  placed  a 
small  chunk  of  ice,  a  bruised  sprig  of  mint,  a  stoned 
cherry  and  the  thin  twisted  chip  of  the  yellow  rind  of 
lemons. 

BAKED  LEMON  FOR  COLDS 
Bake  a  lemon  whole  till  thoroughly  tender  and  eat 
it  hot  with  sugar  just  before  retiring.  It  is  best  to  do 
without  the  evening  meal  and  to  fast  otherwise  as  far 
as  possible.  Also  drink  much  water.  This  should  be 
taken  three  nights  in  succession. 

67 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

RHUBARB  WINE 

The  rhubarb  wine  is  one  of  the  nicest  of  home-made 
wines  and  the  material  for  it  is  not  expensive. 

Break  up  and  run  through  food  chopper  eighteen 
pounds  of  rhubarb  and  place  it  in  a  large  stone  jar  with 
three  gallons  of  water.  Cover  it  and  let  it  stand  in  a 
cool  place  for  one  week,  stirring  once  a  day. 

Strain  it  over  twelve  pounds  of  granulated  sugar, 
put  into  open  jugs  or  large  bottles  keeping  full  to  over- 
flowing, until  fermentation  ceases.  Then  strain,  place 
in  keg  and  bung  tightly.  Keep  in  keg  for  about  nine 
months,  then  bottle. 

TEA   PUNCH 

Iced  tea  beverages  never  lose  their  favor  and,  if 
anything,  are  growing  in  popularity.  The  tea  punch  is 
easily  prepared  and  does  not  require  freezing. 

One  way  of  preparing  is  to  place  one  heaping  table- 
spoon of  a  mixed  tea,  usually  a  combination  of  Oolong 
and  Gunpowder,  in  a  heated  tea  urn  or  pitcher.  Pour 
over  it  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Let  remain  about  five 
minutes,  then  strain  and  add  sugar  to  sweeten  while  it 
is  still  hot.  Then  add  the  juice  of  one  or  two  lemons. 
Chill  and  add  a  pint  of  plain  or  carbonated  water. 

Place  shaved  ice  in  each  glass  and  pour  over  it  the 
chilled  beverage.  A  sprig  of  mint  or  a  section  of  lemon 
may  be  served. 

FLAXSEED   LEMONADE 

Another  old-fashioned  and  generally  effective 
remedy  for  colds  is  this  laxative  drink :  Pour  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  over  a  cup  of  flaxseed.  Add  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  sugar  to  taste.  Let  steep  in  covered  jug 
several  hours  and  drink  hot  just  before  retiring.  (This 
may  be  thinned  if  preferred). 

58 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

LEMON   FOR   HEADACHE 

The  juice  of  a  large  lemon  squeezed  into  a  small  cup 
of  strong,  black  coffee  (no  sugar)  will  often  prevent  or 
cure  a  headache. 


69 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 


VEGETABLES 

SPANISH  RICE— No.  1 

Put  one-half  cup  of  rice  in  a  frying  pan  with  two 
tablespoons  of  butter  or  cooking  oil,  and  one  small 
onion  sliced  thin.  Let  cook  a  short  time,  then  add  one- 
half  can  of  tomatoes  and  one-half  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Cook  slowly  until 
done,  adding  hot  water  or  soup  stock  if  too  dry. 

SPANISH  RICE— No.  2 

Fry  for  a  few  seconds  in  two  tablespoons  of  oil  one- 
half  cup  of  uncooked  rice,  add  a  small  chopped  onion 
and  a  clove  of  garlic,  one  cup  of  chopped  cold  veal, 
chicken  or  ham.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  sugar.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
slowly,  without  stirring.  When  rice  is  nearly  done,  re- 
move cover. 

SPANISH  RICE— No.  3 

Wash,  drain  and  dry  one-half  cup  of  rice.  Put  two 
tablespoons  of  oil  or  butter  into  a  saucepan  and  add 
the  rice.  Cook  till  browned.  Then  put  into  a  double 
cooker,  add  one  cup  of  water  and  cook  till  the  water  is 
absorbed.  Then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  hot  stewed 
tomatoes  and  cook  till  rice  is  tender.  Season  well  with 
salt  and  paprika. 

RICE   CURRY 

Hard  boil  and  chill  six  eggs.  Cook  in  rapidly  boiling, 
salted  water  one-half  cup  of  rice  to  one  quart  of  water. 
When  cooked  tender  drain  from  a  colander  and  allow 
boiling  water  to  run  through  it  for  a  moment. 

Place  in  a  warm  oven  to  dry  slightly.  While  the 
rice  is  cooking  put  two  tablespoons  of  oil  or  butter  into 

61 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

a  saucepan  with  a  medium  minced  onion  and  when 
browned  add  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder.  Then  two 
level  tablespoons  of  flour.  Pour  over  enough  of  the 
water  in  which  the  rice  was  cooked  to  make  a  creamy 
sauce.  Add  more  seasoning  if  necessary.  Place  the 
rice  in  a  mound  in  a  deep  hot  platter  and  arrange  the 
hard  boiled  eggs  in  quarters,  cut  lengthways,  around 
the  rice.  Pour  over  all  the  curry  and  sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley. 

RICE   CROQUETTES 
MATERIALS : 

2  cups  cold  boiled  rice  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour 

Salt  to  season  Bread  crumbs 

Cracker  meal  Dried  crushed  parsley  for 

Oil  or  drippings  for  frying  garnish 

2  eggs 
PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  foamy  and  mix  it 
with  the  rice,  season  with  the  salt  if  desired  and  add 
enough  bread  crumbs  to  bind  the  rice. 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  cracker  meal  and  if  the  cro- 
quettes are  not  to  be  served  as  a  sweet,  add  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  salt  to  the  cracker  meal. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  two  eggs  and  remaining  white 
till  broken.  Take  the  rice  mixture  by  tablespoons,  roll 
in  the  cracker  meal  to  shape  them  and  then  in  the  beaten 
egg,  then  back  again  in  the  cracker  meal.  If  frying 
them  on  a  pancake  griddle,  flatten  them  but  if  in  deep 
oil  or  fat,  shape  them  round  like  a  sausage.  A  fry 
basket  is  a  very  necessary  adjunct  to  the  fry  kettle. 

When  cooked  a  delicate  brown,  drop  on  paper  to 
absorb  any  excess  of  oil.    Sprinkle  with  parsley. 

RICE  LOAF  WITH  SAUCE  CREOLE 
Put  alternate  layers  of  cold  cooked  rice,  minced 
ham  and  bread  crumbs  in  a  ramekin  or  baking  dish. 
Beat  one  egg  slightly  and  stir  into  it  enough  milk  to 

62 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

moisten  the  contents  of  the  dish.  Set  it  in  a  dish  of 
shallow  water  and  bake  about  one-half  hour  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  drippings  or  oil  into  a  sauce- 
pan. Put  into  it  a  large  onion  and  two  green  peppers 
sliced.  Saute  and  add  two  cups  of  tomatoes  and  cook 
till  reduced.  Season  highly  with  paprika.  If  the  bak- 
ing dish  can  be  brought  to  the  table  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  rice,  but  if  not,  turn  it  out  onto  a  deep  platter  and 
surround  with  the  sauce  Creole. 

DEVILED  POTATOES 
MATERIALS : 

2  dozen  small  new  potatoes    54  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  mustard  1     teaspoon  salt 

2  heaping  tablespoons  but-    2    tablespoons  vinegar 

ter  2    egg  yolks 

1  cup  drippings  or  oil 

PREPARATION : 

Boil  the  potatoes  until  nearly  done.  Peel.  Heat  the 
drippings  in  a  frying  pan  and  fry  the  potatoes  until  they 
are  a  nice  golden  brown  color.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  add  the  pepper,  salt,  mustard  and  vinegar. 
Now  place  the  potatoes  in  the  saucepan  and  let  them 
simmer  three  minutes.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish.  Add  the 
eggs  to  the  sauce.    Pour  it  over  the  potatoes  and  serve. 

RICED   POTATOES 

Boil  the  potatoes  as  for  mashed  potatoes.  Ten  min- 
utes before  taking  from  the  fire  add  sufficient  salt  to 
the  water. 

When  cooked,  drain,  put  into  a  heated  ricer  and 
press  directly  into  a  hot  tureen.  Sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  minced  parsley.  Dot  with  butter.  Keep  hot  until 
time  to  serve. 

Riced  potatoes  are  nice  served  in  hot  ramekins. 

63 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MASHED  POTATOES 

Put  medium  sized  potatoes  over  to  boil  in  hot  water. 
When  cooked  drain  thoroughly.  Add  salt  and  butter 
to  season,  mash  and  add  as  much  hot  milk,  a  little  at 
a  time,  as  the  potatoes  will  take  up. 

Dish  into  a  hot  tureen,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
dot  with  butter.     Cover  and  send  to  the  table. 

SAVORY  POTATOES 

To  one  pint  of  mashed  potatoes  add  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk  and  salt  to  season.  Mix  in  three  level  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese,  place  in  buttered  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  dot  with  butter  and  bake 
brown. 

STUFFED   POTATOES 

Select  medium  potatoes.  Let  stand  in  warm  water 
a  few  moments  and  then  scrub  well  with  a  vegetable 
brush  and  bake. 

When  baked  cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  scoop 
out  the  inside,  mash,  adding  butter,  pepper,  salt  to  sea- 
son, and  as  much  hot  milk  as  they  will  stand. 

To  six  potatoes  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.  Refill  the  shells  with  the  potatoes,  dot  with  but- 
ter and  return  to  the  oven  ten  minutes. 

CARAMELIZED    SWEET    POTATOES 

MATERIALS: 

Cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes     Salt  and  cinnamon  to  season 
Yz  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

54  cup  hot  water 

PREPARATION: 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  shallow  pudding  dish  or 
casserole.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  quarters  lengthwise. 
Distribute  them  over  the  dish.  Mix  hot  water  and 
sugar  and  pour  over  the  potatoes,  dot  with  butter  and 

84 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

sprinkle  with  a  very  little  salt  and  generous  sprinkle 
of  cinnamon.    Place  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Maple  or  Karo  syrup  may  take  the  place  of  sugar 
and  water. 

ASPARAGUS  PIQUANTE 

After  trimming  the  asparagus  of  the  coarse  ends,  cut 
the  stalks  in  two  and  tie  together  in  bunches  easy  to 
handle.  Cook  until  tender  in  salted  water.  Drain  and 
remove  to  a  very  hot  dish. 

Have  prepared  some  time  before  a  dressing  made  in 
the  following  way.  Into  a  French  dressing  bottle  put 
one  level  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  a  generous 
portion  of  chili  powder,  one-quarter  of  level  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  four  tablespoons  of  olive 
oil  and  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Shake  well  for 
three  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  hot  asparagus.  To  be 
just  right  the  asparagus  must  be  piping  hot. 

Served  as  a  luncheon  or  supper  dish,  with  cold 
boiled  tongue  and  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  it  makes 
a  dainty  and  tempting  combination. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  A  BREAD  BOAT 

MATERIALS : 

1  pint  of  milk  Yolks  of  4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

1  stale  Vienna  loaf 

PREPARATION: 

Cleanse  the  asparagus  carefully  and  cut  into  inch 
pieces,  using  only  the  tender  portion  of  the  stalks.  Re- 
serve the  butts  and  the  water  in  which  the  tips  are 
cooked  for  soup,  or,  if  preferred,  cook  the  stalks  whole 
tied  in  bundles  and,  after  cooking  tender  (one-half 
hour)  in  salted  water,  drain  and  cut  off  the  tender  part 

65 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

of  the  stalks  into  inch  pieces,  rubbing  the  coarser  ends 
through  a  colander  into  the  water  and  setting  it  away 
for  future  use,  to  be  made  into  a  cream  of  asparagus. 

Hollow  out  the  center  of  the  loaf  to  form  a  boat  suffi- 
ciently large  to  hold  the  asparagus.  Brush  it  over  with 
butter  and  brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  add  to  them  slowly  the  hot  milk,  return  to  the 
boiler  and  cook  till  creamy.  Take  from  the  fire,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  the  butter.  Put  the 
asparagus  into  the  bread  boat  and  pour  over  it  the 
sauce.  Arrange  on  a  long  narrow  platter  and  send  to 
the  table  hot.  To  serve,  cut  through  the  boat,  helping 
a  slice  with  the  asparagus. 

ASPARAGUS  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE 

Cleanse  thoroughly  the  asparagus,  tie  into  bundles, 
boil  in  salted  water  and  drain,  put  on  a  platter  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Serve  very  cold  with  a  hot  sauce 
Hollandaise.  To  eat,  lift  each  piece  by  the  butt  with 
the  fingers,  dip  in  the  sauce  and  lift  to  the  mouth.  Eat 
only  the  tender  portion. 

SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE 
MATERIALS : 

2  tablespoons  butter  1     tablespoon  chopped  onion 

1  tablespoon  flour  ^  pint  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  tarragon  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

vinegar  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION: 

Put  the  onion  and  vinegar  over  the  fire  and  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  cool.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter 
together,  add  gradually  the  boiling  water,  strain  the 
vinegar  and  add.  Take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  gradu- 
ally the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Heat  very  gently  for  a  mo- 
ment, add  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and  strain  into 
a  sauce  boat. 

66 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BAKED  BEANS  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Soak  over  night  in  cold  water  one  pint  of  beans  with 
a  pinch  of  soda.  In  the  morning  drain,  rinse  and  put 
into  the  kettle  with  half  a  pound  of  bacon.  Cook  for 
about  one  hour  or  until  the  skin  of  the  bean  is  ready  to 
break,  which  test  can  be  made  by  taking  up  two  or 
three  and  pressing  off  the  skin  with  the  fork,  or  blow- 
ing upon  them  when,  if  they  are  sufficiently  cooked,  the 
skin  will  crack  and  curl  back.    They  must  not  be  soft. 

If  you  have  not  the  regulation  bean  pot  or  casserole, 
a  common  butter  jar  or  milk  crock  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose fully  as  well.  By  the  time  the  beans  are  ready  to 
remove  from  the  kettle,  the  water  should  be  just  suffi- 
cient to  cover  them.  Remove  from  the  kettle  with  a 
skimmer  ladle  and  put  into  the  bean  pot  or  jar.  Score 
the  rind  of  the  pork  and  bury  in  the  beans  until  only 
the  rind  is  visible. 

While  the  beans  are  cooking  put  over  the  fire  the 
contents  of  one  can  of  tomatoes,  or  its  equivalent  in 
fresh  ones,  with  a  minced  onion,  one  bay  leaf  and  a  sea- 
soning of  chili  powder.  Cook  twenty  minutes  and 
strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Add  one  level  tablespoon 
of  sugar  if  desired.  Put  this  with  the  liquor  from  which 
the  beans  were  taken,  season  with  salt  if  necessary  and 
pour  over  the  beans  in  the  jar.  Sprinkle  with  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  bake  slowly  from  four  to  six  hours. 

If  you  use  gas  or  gasoline  for  cooking  take  a  tip 
from  my  kitchen  economy.  In  the  absence  of  a  srnall 
oven,  place  a  brick  over  the  low  flame  of  the  gasoline 
stove  or  the  simmering  burner  of  the  gas  range.  On 
this  place  an  asbestos  mat  and  the  jar  of  beans.  Over 
this  turn  a  large  gallon  jar  or  iron  kettle.  This  arrange- 
ment makes  an  ideal  baker  at  small  expense.  Do  not 
attempt  to  finish  the  baked  beans  in  a  fireless  food 
cooker  without  the  supplementary  heated  arrangement 

67 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

of  bricks  or  other  heat  retainers.  If  you  have  a  good 
quality  of  tomato  or  cocktail  sauce  a  little  of  this  may 
be  put  into  the  beans  before  baking  instead  of  making 
a  special  sauce. 

CARAMELIZED   CARROTS 

Scrape  carrots  cut  in  sections  about  two  inches  long, 
then  into  strips  about  as  thick  as  a  lead  pencil.  Boil 
until  tender.  Drain  and  place  in  a  shallow  saucepan, 
cover  with  one  cup  of  vinegar,  three-quarters  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  dash  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
simmer  to  a  syrup.    Serve  hot. 

CARROTS   PIQUANTE 
MATERIALS: 

1  pint  carrots  Yz  cup  vinegar 

1  quart  water  54  ^^P  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  1     tablespoon  butter 

PREPARATION : 

Scrape  the  carrots  and  cut  them  in  sections  one  and 
one-half  inches  long.  Then  slice  them  lengthwise  one- 
fourth  or  an  inch  thick  and  then  in  strips  of  the  same 
thickness.  Add  the  water  and  salt  and  boil  until  tender. 
Drain  off  the  water,  add  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  butter 
and  cook  until  the  carrots  have  a  clear  appearance. 
Serve. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

To  prepare  macaroni,  spaghetti  or  vermicelli  for  any 
dish  it  is  necessary  to  first  drop  it  into  salted  boiling 
water  and  cook  at  a  rapid  boiling  point  from  twenty- 
five  to  thirty  minutes.  Then  turn  into  colander  or 
sieve  and  pour  cold  water  through  it.  This  blanches 
it. 

68 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BAKED  TOMATO  HASH 

Put  one-half  green  pepper  and  one  small  onion 
through  the  food  chopper.  Then  put  the  cold  meat 
through  it.  Have  ready  some  grated  bread.  Mix  the 
meat,  onion  and  pepper,  salt  and  season  to  taste.  Put 
a  layer  of  the  meat  mixture,  then  a  layer  of  canned 
tomatoes  or  fresh  ones  sliced  in  buttered  baking  dish. 
Then  follow  with  a  generous  sprinkle  of  bread  crumbs. 
Season  and  add  the  balance  of  the  meat  mixture  and 
some  more  tomatoes,  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning. 
Have  two  layers  of  each  and  about  two  cups  of  lightly 
packed  meat  and  one  cup  of  tomatoes.  Dot  the  top 
with  pieces  of  butter  or  a  generous  sprinkle  of  cheese. 
Bake  about  one-half  hour. 

TOMATO   FRITTERS 

Season  one  pint  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes 
with  half  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  one  tablespoon 
of  butter  creamed  with  equal  quantity  of  flour.  Stir 
until  thickened.  Remove  the  crusts  and  cut  in  two, 
slices  of  stale  bread.  Let  them  soak  for  a  moment  in 
the  mixture  covering  both  sides.  Fry  in  deep  fat  or 
oil.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve  hot  with  a  sprinkle  of 
powdered  sugar. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Simmer  twenty  minutes  one  can  of  tomatoes  with 
one  bay  leaf,  half  a  dozen  cloves  and  allspice,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  a  small  onion,  sliced,  and  a  green  pepper. 

Strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Put  two  tablespoons 
of  oil,  butter  or  butterine  into  a  saucepan,  stir  in  two 
level  tablespoons  of  flour,  then  add  the  strained  toma- 
toes. Cook  three  minutes  and  add  the  parboiled  maca- 
roni and  cook  a  few  minutes  more.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  paprika. 

68 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

GREEN  TOMATOES   SAUTE 

Select  medium  sized  green  tomatoes.  Wash  and 
cut  into  half  inch  slices  without  peeling. 

Dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs  that 
have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Saute  in 
butter  or  drippings. 

RIPE  TOMATOES  SAUTE 

Treat  the  same  as  the  green  tomatoes,  taking  care 
to  select  medium-sized  tomatoes  that  are  firm  and  solid. 

VEGETARIAN   CUTLETS 

Mash  three  large  hot  boiled  potatoes,  adding  butter 
seasoning  and  enough  hot  milk  to  slightly  moisten. 
Chop  fine  one  onion  and  fry  golden  brown  in  a  table- 
spoon of  cottolene  or  oil.  Boil  and  chop  fine  one  cupful 
each  of  carrots  and  turnips.  Combine  all  of  the  mate- 
rials and  season  highly.  Mold  into  cutlets.  Dip  each 
in  slightly  beaten  egg,  roll  in  powdered  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  a  rich  brown  in  deep  oil. 


70 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


DESSERTS 

RHUBARB  FANCIES 
MATERIALS : 

1     pound  rhubarb  1  cup  whipped  and  sweetened 

1     cup  sugar  cream 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  Whites  of  2  eggs 

1     tablespoon  granulated       Juice  of  1  orange 
gelatine  Orange  straws 

Rich  pastry 
PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  rhubarb  into  short  lengths  with  shears  and 
put  over  the  fire  to  cook  soft  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  the  orange  juice 
just  long  enough  before  removing  from  the  fire  to  heat 
it.  Add  the  tablespoon  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold 
water.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  with 
the  rotary  beater  whip  them  into  the  rhubarb.  Chill 
and  heap  into  the  patty  shells. 

To  make  the  patty  shells,  use  the  small  fluted  patty 
tins  and  turning  them  bottom  side  up,  cover  with  a  rich 
pastry  which  has  been  chilled,  rolled  out  an  inch  thick, 
buttered,  folded  again  and  rolled  to  the  thickness  of  a 
pie  crust.  Prick  these  well  before  putting  in  the  oven 
and  look  at  them  when  half  baked  to  prick  and  release 
any  air  that  may  spoil  their  shape.  When  baked  and 
cooled  fill  with  the  rhubarb.  Heap  the  whipped  cream 
over  each  and  stick  two  or  three  orange  straws  or  strips 
of  angelica  in  each. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL 

(An  English  Dish) 
Gooseberry  Fool  is  made  by  stewing  a  pint  of  goose- 
berries until  soft,  then  putting  them  through  a  sieve 
and  sweetening  the  pulp.  Make  cup  of  custard,  and 
when  it  is  cold  whip  the  gooseberries  into  it,  beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  very  stiff,  beat  them  into  the  mix- 
ture and  serve  cold. 

71 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

GELATINE   SURPRISE 

When  ice  cream  or  sherbets  are  among  the  left- 
overs and  it  is  not  convenient  to  again  freeze  them  do 
not  think  they  are  wasted. 

To  one  cup  of  melted  ice  cream  add  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  in  one-half 
cup  boiling  water.  As  it  chills  and  begins  to  thicken, 
stir  in  a  few  chopped  nuts  or  grated  macaroons.  Mold 
in  cups. 

To  serve,  turn  into  glass  dishes,  cover  with  shreds 
of  Maraschino  cherries.    Serve  with  cream. 

MACAROON   PUDDING 
MATERIALS : 

16  macaroons  4  level  tablespoons  flour 

3  eggs  1  level  tablespoon  corn  starch 

Some  sherry  1  cup  milk 

5  level  tablespoons  1  cup  sugar 

crushed  almonds  1  cup  cream 

PREPARATION: 

Soak  twelve  macaroons  in  some  sherry.  Roll  four 
to  a  powder.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  sugar,  milk, 
cream,  almonds,  starch,  flour  and  powdered  macaroons. 
Lastly  the  well  beaten  egg  whites. 

Put  the  mixture  into  a  pudding  dish,  place  the  wine- 
soaked  macaroons  on  the  top.  Set  the  pudding  dish  in 
a  shallow  dish  of  water  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PRUNE   JELLY 

Remove  the  stones  from  two  cups  of  stewed  prunes 
and  their  juice.  Heat  to  boiling,  add  sufficient  sugar  to 
make  quite  sweet.  Add  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  plain 
minute  gelatine.  Stir  until  dissolved  and  pour  into 
molds  to  chill. 

Use  either  the  individual  molds  and  surround  with 
whipped  cream  to  serve,  or  mold  in  hollow  round  mold 
and  turn  into  large  glass  dish,  filling  the  center  with 
whipped  cream. 

72 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

PRUNE  WHIP 
MATERIALS : 

Yz  pound  prunes  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Yz  cup  sugar  2  egg  whites 

PREPARATION : 

Soak  prunes  over  night.  Scrub  with  a  vegetable 
brush.  Put  on  to  cook  in  water  to  cover,  and  simmer 
slowly  until  well  cooked.  Work  through  a  puree  sieve. 
Beat  the  ^%z  whites  and  the  lemon  juice,  sugar  and 
prunes,  and  whip  until  very  stiff.  Serve  with  a  custard 
or  whipped  cream. 

Other  stewed  dried  fruits  may  be  served  in  the 
same  way. 

PRUNE   SOUFFLE 

Soak  prunes  over  night,  after  having  cleansed  them 
well  in  warm  water  and  removing  the  imperfect  fruit. 
Cook  the  fruit  several  hours  over  moderate  heat.  Take 
out  enough  of  the  broken  fruit  to  fill  one  cup.  Remove 
the  stones  and  put  through  a  colander.  Add  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar.  Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Turn 
into  a  baking  dish,  dust  the  top  with  powdered  sugar 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  six  to  ten  minutes.  Any 
other  fruit,  particularly  the  stewed  dried  fruits  may  be 
substituted  for  the  prunes. 

Serve  with  unsweetened  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Melt  one-half  square  of  chocolate,  add  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoons  of  hot  water 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  glossy. 

Then  add  to  it  half  a  cup  of  scalded  milk.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs.     Add  three  level  tablespoons  of 

73 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

sugar  and  dilute  with  the  hot  mixture.  Return  to  the 
saucepan  and  cook  until  the  mixture  coats  the  spoon. 
When  cold,  fold  in  half  a  cup  of  double  cream,  beaten 
solid  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract. 

LEMON   SAUCE 

This  sauce  is  the  basis  for  many  flavorings  and 
changes,  and  is  so  quickly  made  that  it  is  well  to  know 
how  easily  it  may  be  done.  Instead  of  creaming  the 
flour  and  butter  together  for  it,  mix  either  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  cornstarch  or  a  well  rounding  one  of 
flour  with  a  cup  or  granulated  sugar.  Put  this  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  pour  in  two 
cups  of  boiling  water.  Allow  this  to  boil  up  and  your 
sauce  is  ready  for  any  flavoring  you  prefer.  A  half 
of  a  lemon  sliced  is  an  ordinary  way  of  preparing  it. 

The  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  in 
will  change  it  to  a  foamy  sauce. 

Using  half  the  proportion  of  boiling  water  and  re- 
placing it  with  sherry  or  grape  juice  or  even  a  fruit 
juice,  makes  a  desirable  change. 

One  delightful  variation  of  this  sauce  is  to  cut  up 
bananas  very  fine  and  add  to  it  just  before  removing 
from  the  fire. 

HARD  SAUCE 

Cream  one-third  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar. 
When  very  white  and  curdled  looking,  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  one  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice.  Force  through  a  rose  tube  into  roses  or  twists, 
sprinkle  with  pistachio  nuts,  blanched  and  minced,  or 
with  shredded,  candied  or  Maraschino  cherries. 

Set  away  to  chill. 

74 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

WINE  SAUCE— No.  1 
MATERIALS : 

1  cup  butter  J^  cup  wine  (heated) 

2  cups  powdered  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time. 
Add  the  wine  gradually.    Place  in  a  dish  of  hot  water. 

WINE  SAUCE  (Foamy)--No.  2 
MATERIALS: 

1  cup  butter  5  tablespoons  sherry  or 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  brandy 

2  egg  whites  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

PREPARATION : 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  till  very  light  and 
foamy.  Add  one  egg  white  at  a  time,  beating  lightly, 
then  add  the  wine  and  hot  water.  Place  in  a  bowl  of 
hot  water. 

WINE  SAUCE,  FOAMY 
MATERIALS: 

%     cup  butter  1  tablespoon  sherry  or  brandy 

1%  cups  confectioners  3  tablespoons  hot  water 

sugar  2  egg  whites 

PREPARATION: 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  whip  up  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  whip  into  the  butter  and  sugar. 
Whip  in  the  sherry,  then  add  the  hot  water.  Set  bowl 
in  a  dish  of  hot  water. 

VIRGINIA  PUDDING 
MATERIALS: 

1    cup  preserves  ^  cup  flour 

1     cup  sugar  3    eggs 

5^  cup  butter  3    tablespoons  sour  cream 

%  teaspoon  soda  or  buttermilk 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  sugar,  soda  together  and  work  in  the 
butter.    Beat  the  eggs  and  then  add  them  to  the  butter- 

75 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

milk  and  flour.  Mix  in  the  preserves,  pour  into  a  well 
greased  pan  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
about  half  an  hour. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream.    This  pudding  may  be 
baked  in  individual  molds  or  ramekins. 

STEAMED  COLONIAL  INDIAN  PUDDING 


:erials  : 

1  cup  boiling  milk  or 

2 

eggs 

water 

1 

cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

1  cup  lightly  packed 

Vz 

cup  bread  flour 

chopped  suet 

1 

cup  raisms 

1  cup  cornmeal 

1 

level  teaspoon  of  cloves, 

3  level  teaspoons 

soda  and  salt 

cinnamon 

2 

tablespoons  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  milk  and  molasses  over  the  fire  in  a  double 
cooker,  when  they  are  boiling  hot,  stir  in  the  cup  of 
cornmeal,  set  aside,  allowing  the  dish  to  remain  over 
the  hot  water.  Stir  occasionally  while  mixing  the  other 
materials. 

Put  the  suet  into  a  mixing  bowl  with  the  sugar,  salt, 
white  flour  and  spices.  Then  stir  into  the  cooked  corn- 
meal the  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  water. 
Pour  this  into  the  mixing  bowl  and  stir  hard,  then  add 
the  beaten  eggs,  then  add  the  raisins.  Grease  the  pud- 
ding molds  and  fill  two-thirds  full.  Put  them  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  and  if  you  use  the  molds  with 
the  tube  in  the  center  and  divide  this  recipe  in  two  of 
them  it  will  require  one  and  one-half  hours  steady 
boiling. 

COLONIAL   INDIAN   PUDDING 
(Boiled  in  a  Bag) 

Use  the  preceding  recipe  and  instead  of  one-half  cup, 
use  one  full  cup  of  white  flour. 

76 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Dip  a  piece  of  muslin  into  boiling  water  then  flour 
well  and  lay  on  a  large  platter.  Turn  the  pudding  into 
this,  tie  it  up,  leaving  room  for  pudding  to  swell.  Set 
a  pie  tin  or  old  plate  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle;  pour 
in  boiling  water  and  place  the  pudding  in  it  and  cover. 
Boil  three  hours.  When  cooked,  plunge  for  an  instant 
in  cold  water. 

APPLE    PUDDING 
MATERIALS: 

Pared,  cored  and  quartered    Sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg 
apples  Stale  bread,  milk 

PREPARATION: 

Place  the  apples  in  shallow  greased  pudding  dish, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg.  Butter  the 
bread  and  soak  slightly  in  milk,  break  over  the  apples 
and  dust  lightly  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
with  dish  covered  for  the  first  fifteen  minutes. 

EATWELL   APPLE   DUMPLING 

MATERIALS:    (For  Pastry) 

3      cups  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

lYz  cups  milk  2  rounding  tablespoons 
3      teaspoons  Calimiet  shortening 

Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Work 
in  the  shortening  with  a  fork,  then  add  the  milk  and 
turn  onto  a  well  floured  board.  Roll  out  as  for  bis- 
cuits, brush  with  butter.  Peel  four  or  five  tart  apples, 
mince  them,  spreading  over  the  pastry.  Roll  up,  turn- 
ing toward  the  farther  edge,  dampen  this  edge  with 
water  so  that  it  will  adhere  to  the  roll.  Now  brush  the 
outside  of  the  roll  with  melted  shortening  and  slice  in 

77 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

one  inch  slices.  Place  in  deep  dripping  pan.  Pour  over 
the  sauce  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

These  dumplings  are  best  served  with  whipped 
cream  or  Hard  Sauce. 

SPICED    APPLE    PUDDING 

MATERIALS : 

2  eggs  2    cups  chopped  apples 

2  tablespoons  water  "%  cup  citron 

5  heaping  tablespoons  ^  cup  raisins 

sugar  Yz  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
2  cups  grated  bread  allspice  and  nutmeg 

crumbs 

PREPARATION : 

Turn  into  buttered  mold  and  bake  in  pan  containing 
shallow  water. 

ROLY  POLY  PUDDING 

Measure  bread  flour  into  a  mixing  bowl  and  half 
the  quantity  of  finely  chopped  suet.  Add  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  to  a  pint  (2  cups  of  flour).  Mix  with  just  barely 
enough  cold  water  to  combine  the  materials,  and  roll 
out.  Roll  a  half-inch  thick,  spread  over  this  either 
well-cleaned  raisins  or  currants.  A  heavy  jam,  fresh 
fruit,  pieplant  or  apples  may  be  used.  The  fruits  are 
usually  left  unsweetened.  Roll  up  as  you  would  a  jelly 
roll,  moistening  the  further  edge  so  that  it  will  adhere 
to  the  roll.  Prepare  a  pudding  bag,  as  long  as  you  in- 
tend to  have  the  roll.  Sewing  or  tying  up  the  ends. 
Dip  the  bag  in  hot  water  and  flour  well.  Put  in  the 
roll  and  tie  it  up,  allowing  room  for  the  pudding  to 
swell.  Set  a  pie  tin  or  old  plate  in  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle.  Pour  in  boiling  water  and  place  the  pudding 
in  it  and  cover.  Boil  three  hours.  When  cooked, 
plunge  for  an  instant  in  cold  water. 

One  word  of  caution  relative  to  putting  a  plate  or 

78 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

tin  in  the  kettle.  If  the  kettle  is  granite  do  not  place 
either  in  direct  contact  with  the  bottom,  as  the  enamel 
is  apt  to  break  off  from  the  kettle.  Place  a  couple  of 
skewers  or  anything  that  will  leave  a  space  between  the 
dish  and  the  bottom  of  the  kettle. 

Serve  with  any  rich  pudding  sauce. 

CHERRY   PUDDING 
MATERIALS: 

Yz  cup  butter  2    teaspoons  Calumet  Baking 

1  cup  sugar  Powder 

3  eggs  Yi  cup  milk 

V/i  cups  flour  1     pint  stoned  cherries 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  sugar  together. 
Work  the  butter  into  the  flour  with  a  fork  or  spatula, 
add  the  milk  without  stirring.  Beat  up  the  eggs  with- 
out separating  and  mix  thoroughly  and  add  the  cher- 
ries.   Steam  three  hours.    Serve  with  a  wine  sauce. 

APPLES   IN   BLOOM 

MATERIALS: 

6    apples  (very  red)  1  lemon  (juice  and  rind) 

Yz  cup  sugar  1  orange  (juice) 

PREPARATION: 

Select  red  apples,  Baldwin,  Mcintosh  Red  or 
Spitzenbergen  are  best.  Put  them  into  boiling  water, 
covering  them  about  half  way  up,  turning  them  often. 
When  tender  take  from  the  water  and  remove  the  skin 
carefully  that  the  apple  may  still  retain  all  of  the  red 
coloring.    Arrange  on  the  serving  dish. 

To  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked  add  the 

79 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

sugar  and  fruit  juices,  simmer  until  reduced  to  one  cup. 
Pour  over  the  apples. 

ST.   PATRICK   DESSERT 

Dissolve  one  package  of  lemon  jello  or  jellicon  in 
a  scant  pint  of  boiling  water.  Make  stems  about  as 
large  as  small  toothpicks  of  either  citron  or  angelica, 
press  them  into  the  opening  of  green  Maraschino  cher- 
ries. Lay  them  in  groups  of  three  in  the  bottom  of 
small  saucepan  or  jelly  mold  and  secure  them  in  place 
with  about  half  an  inch  depth  of  dissolved  gelatine. 
Allow  it  to  become  firm  before  adding  the  balance.  Set 
away  to  chill  for  two  hours. 

Unmold  when  ready  to  serve  and  surround  with 
whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened.  Sprinkle  blanched 
and  chopped  pistachio  nuts  over  the  whipped  cream. 

APRICOT  DESSERT— No.  1 

Take  the  juice  from  a  can  of  apricots,  add  water  to 
make  one  pint  and  put  over  to  boil.  When  it  has 
reached  the  boiling  point  add  a  package  of  lemon  jelli- 
con or  jello.  Place  a  half  of  apricot  in  the  cups  of  an 
egg  poacher  or  in  a  teacup  and  pour  around  enough  of 
the  cooled  jelly  to  just  cover  the  apricot.  Set  away  to 
harden. 

Prepare  large  rounds  of  any  kind  of  cake,  a  yellow 
sponge  preferred,  and  turn  onto  it  the  apricot  in  jelly. 
Surround  with  whipped  cream. 

APRICOT  DESSERT— No.  2 

To  one  cup  of  apricot  juice,  from  a  can  of  the  fruit, 
add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and  one-half  cup  of 

80 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  cookie  or  stale  bread  crumbs. 
Put  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler.  When  cooked  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  beat  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white 
of  the  egg. 

Cut  the  apricots  in  small  sections  and  add  to  the 
mixture.  Set  away  in  cups  or  ramekins  to  mold  and 
chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

APRICOT   MERINGUE 

Half  fill  a  buttered  pudding  mold  with  stewed  dried 
apricots,  first  draining  off  the  juice,  add  the  juice  to 
sufficient  milk  to  make  one  pint. 

Dilute  two  level  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  with  milk 
to  pour  and  cook  in  the  syrup  and  milk  ten  minutes. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  three  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  stir  into  the  hot  custard,  stir  while  the  egg 
cooks  a  little.  Then  add  a  level  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  pour  over  the  apricots.  Beat  the  egg  whites  until 
dry,  then  beat  in  gradually  three  level  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  either  an  orange  or  a 
lemon. 

Spread  upon  the  pudding  and  place  in  the  oven 
long  enough  to  cook  the  meringue. 

ORANGE   AND   PINEAPPLE   COMPOTE 

I  find  I  can  dispense  very  well  with  the  use  of  the 
pineapple  eyecutters.  Slice  the  pineapple  into  inch  or 
wider  slices.  Then  it  is  a  very  easy  matter  with  a  sharp 
vegetable  knife  to  remove  the  shell  and  eyes.  Do  not 
use  the  hard  center  core. 

If  possible,  use  a  long  stemmed  glass  berry  dish  in 
which  to  make  up  the  compote. 

81 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

Prepare  one-half  of  a  pineapple,  cutting  into  dice. 
Peel  and  remove  all  the  white  pith  from  two  oranges. 
Score  them  both  ways  across  and  then  slice  off  in  thin 
slices.  Put  the  fruits  together  and  sweeten  with  suffi- 
cient sugar. 

Place  two  cups  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler.  Mix 
well  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  flour  with  one-half  cup 
of  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  hot  milk.  Beat  slightly  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  with  three  tablespoons  of  cold  water 
and  stir  into  the  mixture.  Cook  till  thick  and  creamy. 
Then  arrange  the  fruit  and  the  custard  in  layers  in  the 
glass  dish,  beginning  with  the  fruit  and  having  a  layer 
of  the  custard  last. 

Put  the  whites  of  eggs  into  a  deep,  narrow  bowl  and 
beat  very  stiff  with  a  rotary  egg  beater,  add  three  level 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  If  convenient  drop 
three  or  four  crushed  currants  or  strawberries  in  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs.  If  not,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  or  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  to  make  the  egg  whites 
very  stiff,  and  a  grating  of  orange  peel  to  give  a  delicate 
tinge  of  color.  Drop  this  meringue  in  spoonfuls  over 
the  custard. 

This  is  a  dessert  that  has  no  equal  for  daintiness 
and  goodness. 

Other  combinations  of  fruits  may  be  used,  but  there 
is  something  particularly  inviting  in  a  combination  of 
pineapple  anid  orange. 

PINEAPPLE  WHIP 
MATERIALS: 

54    cup  sugar  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind 

1%  cup  water  Plain  gelatine  to  make  1  pint 

2      egg  whites  firm  gelatine 

5^     cup  preserved 

shredded  pineapple 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Heat  the  pineapple,  water  and  lemon  juice  together 
with  the  sugar.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold 
water  and  then  add  it  to  the  fruits.  When  cold  whip 
until  ready  to  harden. 

Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs.  Put 
into  wet  individual  molds  until  ready  to  serve. 

Serve  with  custard  sauce. 

EASTER  TRIFLE 

Make  a  cream  custard  of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one 
cup  of  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  two  tea- 
spoons of  flour.  Put  the  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  mix 
the  flour  and  sugar  and  add  to  the  milk.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  add  a  very  little  cold  milk,  then  add 
to  the  hot  milk.  Cook  till  creamy,  then  set  aside  until 
ready  to  serve. 

When  preparing  the  meal  beat  up  the  white  of  one 
egg  with  one  grated  sour  apple,  one-half  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Almost 
every  kitchen  equipment  contains  a  porcelain  or  stone- 
ware bowl  about  five  and  one-half  inches  across  the 
top  and  three  inches  deep.  Put  all  the  ingredients  for 
the  meringue  in  such  a  bowl  and  beat  with  a  rotary  egg 
beater  until  very  stiff — stiff  enough  so  that  the  bowl  can 
be  inverted  without  spilling  the  contents.  Put  this 
meringue  into  a  pastry  bag  or  cone  of  paper  and  force 
into  a  mound  around  a  small  plate.  Sprinkle  with 
blanched  and  minced  pistachio  nuts.  Fill  the  center 
with  the  cream  custard. 

A  flavoring  of  vanilla  may  be  added  to  the  custard 
after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  although  a  great  many 
particular  people  prefer  a  custard  without  flavoring  of 
any  kind.  A  cream  custard  will  lose  none  of  its  deli- 
cacy by  adding  a  very  little  flour,  arrowroot  or  corn- 

83 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

starch  and  will  have  the  desired  body  without  danger 
of  curdling.  The  cornstarch  or  flour  may  be  well  mixed 
with  the  sugar,  but  the  arrowroot  must  be  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water.  Use  any  one  of  them  very  spar- 
ingly. 

PLUM   TRIFLE 

Cooks  plums  slowly  till  soft  when  rub  through  sieve 
and  let  cool.  To  each  cup  of  pulp  add  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  a  little  sugar.  Drop  a 
spoonful  of  this  on  cups  two-thirds  full  of  a  simple 
custard,  letting  the  fruit  meringue  heap  up  well.  Serve 
cold. 

APPLE    AMBER 

Core,  peel,  and  chop  three-fourths  pound  of  apples. 
Mix  together  four  ounces  of  suet,  two  each  of  sugar  and 
flour,  a  little  nutmeg  and  grated  lemon  peel  and  two 
beaten  eggs.  Stir  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  well  but- 
tered mold  with  cloth  tied  tight  over  top.  Boil  three 
hours. 

APPLE  SNOW 

Apple  Snow  may  be  made  in  two  ways,  using  either 
the  cooked  or  uncooked  apples.  For  the  uncooked 
grate  a  medium  sized  tart  apple  (peeled,  grated,  and  set 
aside).  Whip  stiff  the  white  of  one  egg  with  a  pinch 
of  salt,  then  add,  gradually,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
beating  well  into  the  egg,  alternating  with  the  grated 
apple,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time,  till  all  the  apple  and 
sugar  are  used,  then  continue  to  whip  until  the  "snow" 
has  risen  to  at  least  a  pint  and  a  half  in  quantity,  for  it 
will  swell  surprisingly.  If  the  cooked  apple  is  used  ob- 
serve the  same  proportion,  the  white  of  one  egg  to  the 
pulp  of  one  apple.  Chopped  dates  or  nuts  may  be  added 
or  fresh,  grated  cocoanut.  The  "snow"  may  be  served 
as  it  is,  or  quickly  and  lightly  browned. 

84 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CHEESE  SHERBET 

(A  Culinary  Surprise) 
MATERIALS : 

34  pound  grated  cream  1  pint  whipped  cream 

cheese  Bar  le  Due  currants  or  very 

2    level  tablespoons  rich    cherry    or    currant 

powdered  sugar  jam 

PREPARATION : 

Add  the  grated  cheese  and  powdered  sugar  to  the 
whipped  cream,  place  in  a  freezer.  Freeze  and  serve  in 
crystal  sherbet  cups  with  a  teaspoon  of  jam  in  a  slight 
depression  of  the  frappe. 

NEAPOLITAN  PUDDING 

MATERIALS : 

1  quart  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

5  tablespoons  sugar  2  squares  chocolate 

4  heaping  tablespoons  Red  fruit  coloring 

flour  Canned  peaches  or  apricots  in 

halves 
PREPARATION: 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  mix  the  flour 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  beating  smooth  with  a  rotary 
egg  beater,  add  this  to  the  hot  milk  and  when  well 
cooked  divide  into  thirds.  To  one  portion  add  the 
chocolate  (melted),  to  another  portion  add  enough  of 
the  fruit  color  to  make  it  a  delicate  color.  Place  a  por- 
tion of  the  halved  fruit  in  the  bottom  of  each  individual 
mold,  dispose  of  blanc  mange  by  placing  a  spoonful  of 
each  color  in  each  mold.  Set  away  to  chill  and  serve 
with  a  custard  sauce. 

CIDER  JELLY 

To  one  pint  of  cider  allow  one  package  of  sweetened 
unflavored  gelatine.  Heat  cider  to  boiling  point  and 
pour  over  the  gelatine.  Cool  and  pour  into  individual 
molds,  when  firm  turn  out  and  serve  with  rich  cream. 

85 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

LIGHT  FRUIT  DESSERTS 

The  fresh  fruits  work  up  so  well  into  delicious  com- 
potes and  fruit  rolls  that  are  so  much  more  easily  made 
than  pies  and  so  much  more  digestible,  that  in  the  sum- 
mer season  pies  can  and  should  be  almost  entirely 
eliminated  from  the  menu. 

Pie  pastry  at  its  very  best  is  indigestible  for  the 
reason  that  the  starch  grains  are  coated  with  the  fat 
or  shortening  and  in  the  processes  of  digestion  the 
starch  is  taken  up  in  the  digestive  apparatus  and  acted 
upon  before  the  fats,  and  the  coating  around  these 
starch  particles  prevent  this  until  after  the  food  has 
passed  this  point.  This  forces  the  starch  into  the  intes- 
tines in  an  undigested  state. 

Then,  too,  at  that  season  of  the  year  fatty  foods  are 
not  desirable  or  necessary,  and  pie  pastry  properly 
made  is  just  exactly  one-third  fatty  substance. 

Pies,  therefore,  should  be  discarded  with  the  heavier 
meats  until  cold  and  strenuous  weather  makes  demands 
upon  the  system  that  only  these  richer  foods  can  sup- 
ply. 

A   STRAWBERRY   ROUND-A-LAY 

Someone  has  said  "that  possibly  God  could  have 
made  something  better  than  the  strawberry,  but  doubt- 
less he  never  did." 

The  strawberry  is  the  perfect  fruit.  When  they 
have  ripened  in  our  gardens,  says  Hommes,  "summer 
has  begun"  hardly  till  then,  and  they  mark  pretty 
nearly  the  true  astronomical  beginning  of  the  season. 

While  we  have  the  berry  in  the  market  from  Christ- 
mas on,  the  real  desire  for  them  does  not  come  until 
spring  is  turning  into  summer.     It  is  true,  unfortu- 

86 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

nately,  that  some  find  the  acid  of  the  berry  does  not 
agree  with  them,  but  these  are  only  exceptions  and 
they  have  been  recommended  to  persons  of  gouty  or 
bilious  tendency. 

STRAWBERRIES  EN  CASSEROLE 

Bake  in  a  small,  round  fluted  cake  pan  a  hot  water 
sponge  cake.  Have  ready  two  cups  of  berries  cut  in 
halves,  two  cups  of  sweetened  whipped  cream,  some 
powdered  sugar,  and  a  half  dozen  perfect  berries. 

Before  the  cake  is  chilled,  cut  off  the  top  about  an 
inch  thick  and  take  out  the  center  of  the  cake  with  a 
fork,  leaving  a  shell  in  which  to  put  the  berries,  first 
lining  it  thickly  with  some  of  the  whipped  crecim. 
Sprinkle  the  berries,  as  they  are  put  into  the  shell  with 
powdered  sugar.  Cover  with  the  top  of  the  cake  and 
heap  the  balance  of  the  whipped  cream  on  it. 

Distribute  the  whole  berries  over  the  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  QUEEN 
MATERIALS: 

1  quart  strawberries  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  of  gelatine  1  cup  of  thick  whipped 

(granulated)  cream 

Sponge  cake  cut  in  small        Whites  of  2  eggs 
dice 
PREPARATION : 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Crush 
and  strain  one-half  of  the  berries.  Bring  the  juice  with 
the  sugar  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  the  gelatine. 
When  partially  chilled,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 
and  whip  up  together.  Place  on  the  ice  until  needed. 
When  ready  to  serve,  line  a  glass  dish  with  a  layer 
of  the  diced  cake,  then  a  layer  of  the  gelatine.  Alternate 
until  the  dish  is  filled,  then  cover  the  dish  with  the 
sweetened  whipped  cream  and  scatter  the  balance  of 
the  berries  over  the  cream. 

87 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

STRAWBERRY    CUSTARD 
Stem  enough  perfect  berries  to  line  a  glass  dish. 
Cut  them  in  halves  and  arrange  them  so  that  while  lin- 
ing the  dish  they  do  not  fill  it,  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler.  Mix  a 
heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  with  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
and  stir  into  the  milk,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
add  a  little  cold  milk  or  water  and  stir  into  the  milk. 
Cook  until  creamy  and  slightly  thick.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  dozen 
crushed  berries  till  very  stiff.  Pour  the  custard  into 
the  glass  dish  without  breaking  down  the  lining  of  the 
berries. 

Drop  the  meringue  in  heaps  over  it.  This  is  one  of 
the  most  quickly  prepared,  delicious  strawberry  des- 
serts. 

STRAWBERRY  PATES 

A  novel  way  of  serving  the  strawberry  is  to  half  fill 
puff  pastry  shells  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  and 
fill  the  balance  with  berries.  Make  a  border  around 
the  edge  of  the  pate  shell  with  stiffly  whipped  cream  to 
which  a  few  drops  of  green  vegetable  coloring  has  been 
added. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 
All  measures  level  unless  otherwise  stated 
MATERIALS  FOR  PASTRY: 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

3  level  teaspoons  of  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  short- 

Calumet  Baking  ening,  either  lard,  butter. 

Powder  or  butterine 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  quart  of  berries 

1  cup  sugar  Butter,  whipped  cream 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  mix  in  the 
shortening  with  a  spatula  or  fork.    Add  enough  of  the 

88 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Divide  the  dough  in  two 
parts.  Roll  out  each  and  brush  with  butter,  place  one 
on  top  of  the  other  in  a  shallow  baking  tin  and  bake 
about  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Remove  from  the  pan  to  a  hot  chop  plate  or  large 
platter  and  take  off  the  upper  layer.  Spread  each  with 
butter. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  berries  and  cover  the  lower  layer 
with  them.  Place  the  top  and  cover  it  with  the  whipped 
cream.  A  few  perfect  berries  may  be  reserved  to  dis- 
tribute over  the  whipped  cream. 

If  plain  cream  is  to  be  used  instead  of  the  whipped 
cream,  powdered  sugar  may  be  sifted  lightly  over  the 
top  of  the  shortcake  and  the  cream  served  from  a 
pitcher. 

STRAWBERRY   SAUCE 

This  is  excellent  served  with  plain  boiled  rice,  or 
bread  puddings,  or  a  scarcely  sweetened  blanc  mange. 

Beat  together  one-third  cupful  of  butter  and  a  cup 
of  sugar  until  white  and  light.  Add  to  it  the  stiffly 
beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  a  cupful  of  crushed  berries. 
The  success  of  this  sauce  depends  upon  the  long 
beating. 

MARSHMALLOW   SAUCE 

MATERIALS: 

1     cup  sugar  1     tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Yz  cup  water  1     egg  white 

4    tablespoons  orange  %  pound  marshmallows 

juice 

PREPARATION: 

Soak  the  marshmallows  in  the  juice  of  lemon  and 
orange  juice  one-half  hour. 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  cooking  it 
about  five  minutes.  Add  the  marshmallows  with  the 
fruit  juices.  Beat  up  the  egg  white  very  stiff  and  dry 
and  whip  into  the  sauce. 

BERRIES   EN   MERINGUE 
(A  Novel  and  Attractive  Dish) 

MATERIALS : 

1  quart  of  berries  Sugar  to  serve 

6  slices  of  Angel  or  Bowl  of  meringue 

Sunshine  cake 

MATERIALS  FOR  SUNSHINE  CAKE: 

Yz  cup  of  sifted  pastry  10  level  tablespoons  granu- 

flour  lated  sugar 

4    egg  whites  3    egg  yolks 


Yz  level  teaspoon  of 
Calumet  Baking 
Powder 


PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring  and  once  after 
measuring.  Separate  the  eggs.  Beat  the  egg  yolks 
until  stifE  and  lemon  colored.  Whip  the  whites  until  the 
dish  can  be  inverted  without  spilling. 

Whip  the  sugar  into  the  ^^z  whites  and  then  whip 
in  the  beaten  egg  yolks.  When  thoroughly  whipped  in 
add  the  baking  powder,  whipping  lightly.  Then  fold 
in  the  flour. 

Pour  the  batter  into  a  small  loaf  pan,  a  round  pan 
with  tube  preferred.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
thirty  minutes.  Allow  to  cool  before  removing  from 
the  pan. 

MATERIAL  FOR  MERINGUE: 

Yz  cup  confectioners  sugar     Y^  cup  berries 
1     egg  white 

90 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION: 

Drop  the  egg  white  with  the  sugar  into  deep,  nar- 
row bowl  or  quart  cup.  Crush  the  berries  through  a 
sieve  into  the  cup.  Beat  with  a  rotary  egg  beater  until 
very  stiff.  Do  not  stop  beating  until  very  much  stiffer 
than  the  white  of  egg  would  become  if  beaten  alone. 
Have  all  materials  and  dish  very  cold. 

Just  before  time  to  serve  make  a  border  of  slices  of 
the  cake  about  two  inches  from  the  edge  of  the  glass 
plate  or  chop  plate.  Fill  the  center  with  berries.  Dis- 
tribute the  Meringue  in  a  rough  border  around  the 
cake.  Piped  through  a  pastry  bag  the  Meringue  will 
form  more  of  a  decoration  but  is  not  necessary. 

To  serve,  use  berry  spoon.  Unless  berries  are  very 
sour  no  other  sweetening  is  required. 

Peaches  pared  and  sliced  may  be  used  instead  of 
berries.  But  in  using  peaches  or  berries  which  are  not 
acid,  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  must  be  used  in  mak- 
ing the  Meringue. 

BERRY  BATTER  CUPS 

MATERIALS : 

Berries,  sugar  to  sweeten       2    teaspoons  butter  (round- 
Batter  :  ing) 
1  cup  flour                                %  cup  milk  (scant) 
1  egg                                          1     teaspoon   Calumet  Baking 

Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder,  work  in  the  butter 
with  a  fork,  beat  up  the  egg  to  which  add  the  milk  and 
beat  all  into  the  flour.  Butter  some  ramekins  or  patty 
pans,  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  batter,  then  a  spoonful  of 
crushed  fruit  and  sugar,  make  three  layers  of  batter 
and  two  layers  of  fruit.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Serve  with  either  plain  or  whipped  cream, 
unsweetened. 

91 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

If  a  sweet  or  custard  sauce  is  desired,  use  the  berries 
without  sugar. 

CURRANT  ROLL 

Wash  and  pick  over  enough  red  or  white  currants 
to  fill  a  cup  three  times.  Put  into  the  sifter  two  cups 
of  flour,  two  level  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  rounding 
teaspoons  of  Calumet  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  sift  twice,  work  in  with  a  fork  one  rounding  table- 
spoon of  butter  or  lard.  Moisten  the  flour  with  about 
one  cup  of  milk  till  a  stiff  dough  is  formed.  Roll  it  out 
about  one-half  inch  thick.  Spread  with  the  currants. 
Mix  one  cup  of  sugar  with  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  sprinkle  over  the  currants.  Dot  with  small 
pieces  of  butter.  Roll  the  pastry  from  you  over  and 
over  like  a  jelly  roll.  Moisten  the  further  side  with  a 
little  water  to  hold  it  to  a  roll.  Brush  the  roll  with  milk 
and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  about  fifty- 
five  minutes.  Cover  with  another  pan  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes. 

This  can  also  be  steamed  or  better  still,  cooked  in  a 
fireless  cooker  that  is  supplied  with  the  heated  plates  or 
bricks.  When  cut  open  the  juice  will  form  the  sauce 
in  which  to  serve  it. 


CUSTARD    SAUCE 

MATERIALS: 

1     cup  milk  1  teaspoon  flour  (heaping) 

J/^  cup  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

PREPARATION: 

Place  the  milk  in  a  double  cooker.    Mix  the  sugar 
and  flour  and  add  to  the  milk  and  cook  till  creamy. 

92 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


Then  add  the  egg  yolks  in  which  a  Httle  water  has 
been  mixed  to  prevent  their  becoming  stringy.  Allow 
to  cook  but  a  few  moments  after  the  egg  yolks  have 
been  added. 

A  half  teaspoon  of  vanilla  may  be  used  for  flavoring. 


CHOCOLATE  SYRUP 


MATERIALS: 


8  level  tablespoons  grated 

chocolate 
1  cup  hot  water 


8  tablespoons  sugar 
1  level  teaspoon  granulated 
gelatine 


PREPARATION: 

Boil  the  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water  for  five  minutes. 
Soak  the  gelatine  two  or  three  minutes  in  a  tablespoon 
of  cold  water  and  add  it  to  the  syrup.  Melt  the  choco- 
late in  a  double  boiler  or  in  a  saucepan  over  water. 
When  melted  pour  in  the  boiling  hot  syrup  and  stir 
until  well  mixed. 

This  syrup  is  served  with  ice  cream  and  pudding, 
and  is  very  rich.  If  desired  it  may  be  reduced  with 
boiling  water.  When  chilled  it  becomes  a  little  creamy, 
but  keeps  indefinitely. 


CARROT  PUDDING 


1 

lAl^S : 
cup  grated  potato 

Yz  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1 

cup  grated  carrots 

1     teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

1 

cup  seeded  raisins 

one  tablespoon  hot 

V^ 

cup  currants 

water 

V^ 

cup  suet 

1     egg 

1^4 

cups  flour  or  dry 

Yz  cup  molasses 

grated  bread  crumbs 

Flour  the  fruit  well.     Steam 

34 

cup  sugar 

3  hours. 

V^ 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

Serve  with  hard  sauce 

93 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

FROZEN   DAINTIES 

FREEZING 

Pour  the  chilled  cream  into  the  freezer.  Place  the 
freezer  in  the  pail  and  pack  with  ice  nearly  to  the  top. 
Sprinkle  coarse  salt  uniformly  on  the  ice  as  you  pack 
it  into  the  bucket.  Cover  and  fasten  the  can  and  turn 
it  slowy  until  it  becomes  difficult  to  turn.  Open  the 
can  and  remove  the  dasher.  Scrape  the  cream  from 
the  sides  of  the  can.  Mix  until  smooth,  close  the  can 
and  drain  off  the  brine.  Add  fresh  ice  and  salt,  cover- 
ing the  entire  can.  Wrap  a  blanket  around  the  freezer 
and  let  it  stand  two  hours.  In  very  hot  weather  renew 
the  salt  and  ice  three  times  and  keep  the  blanket  cold 
and  wet  with  the  brine  from  the  freezer. 

In  adding  fruit  to  the  creams,  (such  as  peaches, 
pineapples,  plums,  oranges  or  apricots),  it  must  be  cut 
into  small  dice,  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  allowed  to 
stand  two  hours. 

Berries  must  be  mashed,  sugared  and  mixed  with 
the  frozen  cream.  Always  thoroughly  chill  the  cream 
before  freezing  it.  It  is  then  smoother  and  the  chilling 
makes  it  freeze  more  rapidly  and  easily. 

CHERRY  ICE  CREAM 

Make  a  foundation  ice  cream  or  custard,  flavoring  it 
with  cherry  syrup,  cordial,  spiced  cherries.  Maraschino, 
or  other  form  of  preserved  cherries.  Use  a  few  of  the 
crushed  kernels  to  flavor. 

APRICOT  SHERBET 
MATERIALS : 

3    pints  water  1  pint  sugar 

Y/^  pint  lemon  juice  1  can  apricots  with  syrup 

95 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION  : 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pint  of  the  water,  sugar  and 
lemon  juice.  Put  the  apricots  through  a  coarse  sieve 
or  colander.  Chill  the  syrup,  put  all  the  materials  to- 
gether in  the  freezer. 

Serve  in  chilled  glasses.  The  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs  may  be  added  after  the  mixture  is  partially 
frozen. 

LIME    SHERBET 
MATERIALS : 

1  cup  lime  juice  1  tablespoon  gelatine 

2  cups  boiling  water  6  drops  extract  ginger  or 
2  oranges  (sliced)  mint 

1  cup  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Bring  to  boiling  point,  cool,  pour  into  freezer,  add- 
ing whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten.  Garnish  with 
cherries  or  sprig  of  mint. 

GRAPE   SHERBET 

Dissolve  one  cup  of  sugar  in  one  cup  of  hot  water; 
then  add  one-half  package  of  jelly  powder.  Chill  but 
do  not  allow  to  set  before  adding  to  one  pint  of  grape 
juice.  Freeze  and  when  like  snow  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
white  of  one  egg. 

SURPRISE  ICE 

Peel  and  chop  one  pint  of  ripe  peaches  and  add  to 
them  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water 
and  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs.  Do  not  beat  the 
eggs,  but  put  all  of  the  ingredients  together  into  the 
freezer. 

96 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

LEMON  GINGER  SHERBET 
MATERIALS: 

1  pound  sugar  1  cup  preserved  or  crystal- 
V/2  quarts  water  lized  ginger 

6  lemons 

PREPARATION : 

Grate  the  rind  from  three  of  the  lemons.  Place  the 
sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemons  with  one  cup  of 
water  over  the  fire  for  a  few  moments,  cut  the  ginger 
into  small  pieces.  Cool  and  strain  the  sugar  and  put 
all  the  materials  together  in  the  freezer. 

MINT  SHERBET 
MATERIALS : 

2  dozen  stalks  of  mint  5  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

PREPARATION : 

Mince  the  mint  leaves.  Place  two  cups  of  water,  the 
mint  leaves  and  juice  of  the  lemons  over  the  fire  to  make 
a  syrup.  Strain  the  syrup,  cool  it  and  add  balance  of 
the  water  and  freeze. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 
MATERIALS: 

1  can  grated  pineapple  1^^  quarts  water 

3  cups  sugar  1       ^easpoon  citric  acid 

4  egg  whites 

PREPARATION : 

Cook  the  pineapple,  citric  acid  and  sugar  till  sugar 
is  well  dissolved.  Cool  and  add  the  water  and  freeze. 
When  partially  frozen  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
whipped  till  very  foamy,  and  finish  freezing. 

97 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

This  recipe  will  fill  from  fifteen  to  twenty  sherbet 
cups. 

TEA   ICE 

A  refreshing  ice  for  luncheon  or  afternoon  tea  may 
be  made  from  a  fine  flavored  tea  sweetened  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  and  few  wisps  of  the  yellow  rind  added  and 
frozen  to  the  consistency  of  snow. 

COCOA    CREAM    SHERBET 

This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  of  punches,  served 
with  wafers  or  some  delicate  small  cakes,  it  constitutes 
a  refreshment  of  nourishing  as  well  as  cooling  quality. 

Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  sugar  with 
a  quarter  pound  of  cocoa,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
gradually  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth.  Then 
blend  with  three  pints  of  hot  milk,  add  a  stick  of  cin- 
namon and  cook  over  hot  water  for  ten  minutes.  Strain 
and  chill  and  begin  to  freeze.  When  like  mush  add  a 
meringue  made  of  egg  whites,  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  and  one-half  cup  of  thick  whipped  cream  and  fin- 
ish freezing. 

Serve  in  tall  sherbet  glasses,  with  a  rose  of  whipped 
cream  piped  on  the  top  with  a  rose  tubed  pastry  bag. 

PINEAPPLE   COCKTAIL 

Pare  one-half  of  a  ripe  pineapple  and  cut  in  dice, 
also  dice  three  oranges,  carefully  taking  out  all  of  the 
white  pulp.  Place  in  sherbet  cups,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  let  chill  for  an  hour.  Sprinkle  with  shaved  ice  and 
serve  immediately. 

GRAPE  COCKTAIL 

Take  equal  parts  of  Malaga  grapes  and  diced 
oranges.     Cut  the  grapes  lengthwise  and  remove  the 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

seeds.  Chill  until  ready  to  serve.  Then  dish  the  fruit 
into  glasses,  and  pour  over  it  the  following  mixture : 

Take  one-half  package  of  jellicon  or  jello,  dissolve  it 
in  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  mix  with  some  of  the 
fruit  juice,  chill  but  do  not  allow  it  to  harden. 

Place  a  sprig  of  mint  in  each  glass. 

A  fruit  cocktail  must  always  be  well  chilled  or  it 
fails  to  serve  its  appointed  office,  that  of  an  appetizer. 
A  delightful  addition  to  a  fruit  cocktail  that  finishes  a 
heavy  dinner  is  crushed  mint  leaves. 

LEMON  ICE 
MATERIALS: 

8  lemons  6  cups  sugar 

4  tablespoons  arrowroot         1  cup  whipping  cream 

8  cups  water 

PREPARATION: 

Bring  to  a  boil  about  half  of  the  water,  add  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  two  of 
them.  Boil  five  minutes  and  strain,  return  to  the  fire 
in  a  double  cooker  and  add  the  arrowroot  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water,  when  thickened,  remove  from  fire 
and  add  the  balance  of  the  water. 

Freeze  till  mushy,  then  add  the  cream  (whipped) 
and  finish. 

RASPBERRY  SHERBET 
MATERIALS : 

1  tablespoon  gelatin  3  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar  1  pint  Raspberry  juice  or 
Juice  of  2  lemons  preserves 

PREPARATION: 

Soak  the  gelatin  until  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Heat  one  cup  of  water  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over 
the  gelatin.  When  dissolved  add  the  sugar  to  the  hot 
mixture  so  as  to  dissolve  it  well.  Cool  the  mixture  and 
put  all  the  materials  together  into  the  freezer. 

99 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CREAM  OF  PEACH  SHERBET 

Scald  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  dissolving  in  it  a  cup  of 
sugar.  Let  simmer  eight  minutes,  then  cool,  adding 
to  it  when  cold  a  pint  of  peach  pulp  sweetened  and 
flavored.  When  half  frozen  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
whipped,  and  complete  the  freezing. 

ANGEL  FOOD  ICE  CREAM 

MATERIALS : 

Whites  of  4  eggs  y^  cup  sugar 

1  quart  whipped  cream  1    teaspoon  almond  extract 

PREPARATION: 

Beat  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Fold 
in  the  whipped  cream  and  the  flavoring  extract.  Line 
a  mold  with  Ice  Cream  and  fill  the  center  with  this  mix- 
ture. 

Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  it  stand  three  hours. 

DELMONICO   ICE   CREAM 
(An  old  favorite) 

MATERIALS  FOR  CUSTARD: 

2  cupfuls  milk  4  level  tablespoonfuls  flour 
1  cupful  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  7  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoonful  lemon 

PREPARATION: 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the  sugar 
and  flour  thoroughly  and  add  to  the  hot  milk,  beat  the 
yolks  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Add  flavoring.  Cool  and  add  it  to  2^  cupfuls  of  whip- 
ping cream  which  has  been  whipped. 

Place  in  a  freezer. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT 
MATERIALS: 

4  eggs  1  pint  whipping  cream 

1  cup  hot  maple  syrup 

100 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  egg-white  stiff,  drop  in  the  yolks  and  beat 
a  moment.  Pour  over  them  the  hot  maple  syrup,  beat- 
ing all  the  time.    Cool  and  add  the  whipped  cream. 

Place  in  a  mould.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice,  let  stand 
about  three  hours. 

CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE 
MATERIALS: 

3    squares  chocolate  3  tablespoonfuls  hot  water 

Yz  cupful  granulated  sugar  1  cupful  powdered  sugar 

1     cupful  milk  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

1     level  tablespoonful  1  quart  whipped  cream 
plain  gelatin 

PREPARATION: 

Make  a  custard  of  the  chocolate,  melted,  and  the 
granulated  sugar  with  the  milk. 

Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  the  hot  water  and  add  to 
the  mixture.  Cool,  then  fold  it  into  the  whipped 
cream,  adding  the  flavoring  and  powdered  sugar. 

Place  in  a  mould,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  allow  to 
stand  about  three  hours. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 

MATERIALS : 

1     pint  cream  1  pint  milk 

6     eggs  5  ounces  chocolate 

54  pound  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  extract 

PREPARATION : 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  the  cinnamon  extract. 
Make  and  cook  the  custard,  then  add  to  it  the  chocolate 
while  both  are  hot.  Cook,  chill  and  freeze  as  directed 
in  freezing. 

To  make  CARAMEL  CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 
omit  the  cinnamon  extract  and  use  instead  three  table- 
spoons of  the  prepared  caramel  syrup. 

101 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BURNT   ALMOND   ICE    CREAM 

MATERIALS: 

1  quart  cream  6  egg  whites 

1  pound  sugar  4  ounces  shelled  almonds 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

PREPARATION: 

Blanch  almonds,  brown  them  in  the  oven.  Pound 
to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  little  sugar  and  cream 
to  make  a  paste.  Mix  the  eggs,  sugar  and  cream,  add 
the  almond  paste.  Then  freeze  according  to  directions. 
Adding  a  tablespoon  of  caramel  will  produce  a  richer 
color. 

SHAMROCK  COCKTAIL 

Take  equal  parts  of  diced  pineapple  and  bananas, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar  and  chill.  If  desired,  a  little 
white  grape  juice  or  a  dash  of  sherry  may  be  added. 

Cut  green  maraschino  cherries  in  halves.  Arrange 
rounds  of  lettuce  leaves  in  tall  sherbet  glasses,  dis- 
tribute the  fruit  in  the  glasses  with  the  juice.  Place 
three  sections  of  the  green  maraschino  cherries  in  the 
center  of  each  glass  to  simulate  the  sprig  of  shamrock. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING 
MATERIALS: 

2  cups  cream  2  cups  sugar 
5     egg  yolks  1  pinch  salt 
Y-i  cup  Sultana  raisins            3  cups  milk 

Yz  cup  pineapple  syrup  1  pint  prepared  Italian 

1     cup  candied  fruits  chestnuts 

PREPARATION : 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  sugar,  eggs  and  salt, 
according  to  directions,  strain  and  cool.  Add  the  pine- 
apple syrup,  cream  and  chestnuts.  Then  freeze  as  di- 
rected. 

102 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Line  a  two-quart  mold  with  part  of  the  mixture  and 
to  the  remainder  add  one  cup  candied  fruits  minced, 
one-half  cup  Sultana  raisins  and  six  chestnuts  chopped. 
Fill  the  mold. 

Pack  in  ice  and  let  stand  three  hours. 

To  prepare  the  chestnuts  shell  and  boil  until  soft, 
then  pass  them  through  potato  ricer. 


103 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PASTRIES  AND  PIES 

PLAIN    PASTRY 

MATERIALS: 

1  level  cup  lard  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

3  level  cups  flour  Ice  water  to  make  soft  dough 

1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

PREPARATION: 

Select  the  very  best  open  kettle  rendered  lard  for 
pastry.  If  bread  flour  is  used,  great  care  must  be  taken 
that  lard  should  measure  fully  1/3  of  the  flour.  Mate- 
rials should  be  chilled,  either  before  or  after  the  mixing. 
Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  three  times. 
Work  in  the  shortening  with  a  fork  or  spatula,  roughly, 
leaving  the  shortening  in  flaky  lumps,  then  add  the  ice 
water,  still  using  a  fork  for  the  mixing.  Too  much 
water  makes  pie  pastry  shrink  but  on  the  other  hand  if 
not  enough  water  is  used  the  pastry  will  break  around 
the  edges  before  it  can  be  rolled  to  shape  the  pan. 

When  more  pastry  is  mixed  than  can  be  used,  place 
the  balance  in  a  cup  or  bowl  and  set  away  in  the  refriger- 
ator, and  when  ready  to  use  press  out  about  an  inch 
thick,  spread  with  lard  or  butterine,  fold  over  and  roll 
to  desired  shape.  When  a  very  flaky  top  crust  is  de- 
sired, treat  pastry  in  the  same  way. 

PUFF  PASTE 
MATERIALS : 

1  pound  sifted  pastry  flour     1  teaspoon  salt 
White  of  1  egg  1  pound  butter 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1  cup  ice  water 

PREPARATION: 

Put  the  butter  into  a  bowl  in  cold  water,  wash  or 
work  it  under  the  water  without  pressing  it  into  the 
bowl,  until  it  becomes  soft  and  elastic.    Take  off  a  piece 

105 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

the  size  of  a  large  hen's  egg,  form  the  remaining  quan- 
tity into  a  thin  sheet,  and  lay  it  on  a  piece  of  cheese 
cloth  on  ice. 

Put  the  flour  in  the  center  of  a  large  bowl,  make  a 
well  in  the  center,  put  in  the  piece  of  butter,  the  salt, 
sugar,  white  of  egg  and  half  the  water.  Begin  to  work 
in  the  flour,  and  as  the  dough  is  formed  add  a  little  more 
water  and  more  flour  until  you  have  a  dough  the  con- 
sistency of  bread  dough. 

Dust  the  board  with  flour  and  knead  the  dough 
until  it  is  soft  and  elastic,  keeping  your  hands  as  cool 
as  possible.  Cut  the  dough  into  halves,  roll  each  half 
out  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick.  Dry  the  butter  on 
the  cheese  cloth,  dust  it  with  flour  on  both  sides,  put  it 
on  one  sheet,  cover  it  with  the  other,  fastening  the  edges 
together,  and  roll  quickly  from  you,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  dough.  Fold  in  the  sides,  then  the  ends, 
turning  the  paste  around  so  that  the  folds  will  run  to 
and  from  you,  roll  from  you  and  again  fold  as  before. 
Place  on  a  dry  napkin,  then  on  a  dish  and  on  the  ice 
for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  roll  again,  having  the  fold 
in  the  same  position,  fold  and  roll  again.  Stand  it  on 
the  ice  for  another  fifteen  minutes.  Do  this  until  you 
have  given  it  six  rolls  or  turns.  Eight  will  make  it 
lighter,  if  you  know  how  to  roll,  but  if  it  is  your  first 
trial  six  will  be  quite  sufficient.  Wrap  it  in  a  dry  nap- 
kin, put  it  on  a  plate  and  in  the  refrigerator  over  night. 

PATE   SHELLS 

When  the  puff  paste  has  stood  twenty-four  hours, 
or  over  night,  roll  very  thin,  about  one-fourth  of  an 
inch,  cut  rounds  of  paste  with  small  fluted  cooky  cutter, 
three  rounds  or  more  for  each  pate. 

Make  a  mixture  of  one  egg  yolk  and  one-half  cup 
of  water,  brush  the  round  of  paste  with  this,  put  one  of 

106 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

the  circles  in  place,  brush  it  with  the  mixture,  then  add 
the  other  circle  and  brush  again. 

Place  in  refrigerator  to  chill  and  then  into  a  hot 
oven,  reducing  the  heat  after  ten  minutes.  Fill  with 
creamed  oysters,  sweetbreads  or  peas. 

BISMARCK   TARTS 

Cut  rounds  of  puff  paste  with  a  large  biscuit  or 
cookie  cutter.  Put  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  raspberry  or 
other  jam  in  the  center  of  each.  Brush  the  edge  with 
egg  and  water  mixture,  fold  over  so  that  the  edges  lay 
together.  Set  them  in  the  refrigerator  to  chill,  then  put 
into  a  hot  oven,  reducing  the  heat  after  ten  minutes. 

MINCE  MEAT 
MATERIALS: 

4       pounds  chopped  or  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  salt 

hamburg  beef  (raw)  2  pounds  chopped  suet 

3       pounds  sugar,  brown  3  pounds  seeded  raisins 

preferred  2  pounds  citron 

3      pounds  cleaned  cur-  1  ounce  or  4  tablespoons  each 

rants  of  mace,  nutmeg,  cloves 

1      pound  each  of  lemon  and  allspice 

and     orange     peel  3  gallons  of  peeled  and  quar- 

(candied)  tered  apples 
15^  ounces  cinnamon 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  4  lemons  and  oranges  may 
be  used.  Or  use  cider  to  moisten,  remembering  that 
the  apples  will  supply  a  great  deal  of  juice. 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  up  the  apples  reasonably  fine,  put  the  orange 
and  lemon  peel  through  the  food  chopper,  also  the  suet. 
Place  all  of  the  materials  in  the  kettle  except  the  suet 
and  citron  and  cook  until  the  apples  are  thoroughly 
cooked.  Slice  the  citron  in  about  inch  pieces,  this  can 
more  easily  be  accomplished  by  allowing  it  to  stand  in 
warm  water  for  ten  minutes. 

107 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  the  citron 
and  suet.  Brandy  or  wine  may  be  added  after  cooling 
or  may  be  used  at  the  time  of  pie  making. 

MOCK  MINCE  MEAT   (Vegetarian) 

MATERIALS : 

ZYz  quarts  green  tomatoes  2  pounds  raisins 

chopped  fine  1  pound  currants 

5  large  tart  apples  3  level  tablespoons  cinnamon 
2^  cups  of  cider  1  level  teaspoon  of  ground 

6  cups  sugar  mace 
2      level  tablespoons  each 

of  cloves  and  allspice 

PREPARATION: 

Cook  and  can.    This  will  make  six  quarts. 

MARTHA    WASHINGTON    PIE— No.  1 

MATERIALS  (for  cake  part)  : 

1  cup  sugar  1     teaspoon  flavoring  extract 
5  level  tablespoons  soft  or    2    cups  pastry  flour  sifted  be- 

melted  shortening  fore  measuring 

2  level  teaspoons  Calumet    Yz  cup  milk 

Baking  Powder  2    eggs 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  separate  the  eggs, 
placing  the  whites  in  the  mixing  bowl,  and  beat  very 
stiff  with  a  rotary  beater,  add  the  yolks  and  beat  again, 
then  the  sugar  and  shortening,  beating  sufficiently  to 
mix  well.  Add  the  milk  and  flour,  mix  well  and  add 
the  extract. 

Bake  in  well  greased  deep  pie  tins  and  after  baking 
remove  the  center  to  permit  of  filling  with  the  custard. 

The  better  way  is  to  fill  deepest  large  pie  tin  with 
the  mixture  about  half  full,  then  set  in  the  center  of 
that  a  pie  tin  about  an  inch  and  a  half  smaller  in  diam- 
eter which  has  been  well  greased  on  the  bottom,  thus 

108 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

leaving  a  depression  without  the  waste  or  necessity  of 
removing  the  center  after  baking.  Make  a  meringue  of 
the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar.  Fill  the  pie  with  the  filling,  cover 
with  the  meringue  and  decorate  it  with  shreds  of 
maraschino  cherries  sprinkled  over  the  surface. 

MARTHA    WASHINGTON    PIE    FILLING 

MATERIALS : 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

6  level  tablespoons  flour  2  cups  scalded  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Pinch  of  salt 

PREPARATION : 

Have  the  scalded  milk  in  the  upper  vessel  of  a 
double  boiler.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  and  stir  into 
the  milk.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  slightly  beaten 
and  the  salt.    Add  the  vanilla. 

MARTHA   WASHINGTON   PIE— No.  2 

Make  a  rich  soft  cookie  mixture.  Roll  out  as  for 
pie  crust  and  line  a  pie  tin.  Bake  and  when  cool  fill 
with  the  custard  filling  as  in  Martha  Washington  Pie, 
No.  1.  Finish  with  meringue  and  decorate  with  cher- 
ries. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE   PIE 

MATERIALS : 

2  oranges  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 
Yz     lemon  (juice  and  rind)     2  egg  yolks 

1^  cups  sugar  3  egg  whites 

1       cup  water  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Slice  the  half  lemon  and  one-half  of  an  orange  into 
a  small  saucepan  with  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  of  water.    Cook  like  a  marmalade. 

109 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  remaining  orange  and  a 
half,  mix  with  the  balance  of  the  sugar,  flour,  water  and 
two  egg  yolks,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick, 
then  add  the  marmalade.  Pour  into  two  baked  pastry 
shells.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  egg 
whites  and  powdered  sugar. 

A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  a  pinch  of  cream  of 
tartar,  will  make  the  meringue  finer  and  lighter. 

Sufficient  for  two  pies. 

RAISIN   PIE 

Raisin  pie  used  to  be  looked  upon  as  a  makeshift. 
Everything  else  failing,  groceries  not  delivered  and  the 
dinner  hour  approaching,  there  were  always  raisins  or 
dried  currants  in  the  larder,  from  which  to  make  a  pie. 
You  will  find  more  men,  especially  New  Englanders, 
speak  of  the  juicy  richness  of  mother's  raisin  pie.  And 
the  pioneers  can  look  back  to  the  time  when  the  more 
perishable  pie-stuffs  were  not  to  be  had  at  any  price. 

To  make  the  raisin  pie,  use  either  the  seeded  or 
seedless  raisins,  measure  two  cups  for  a  medium  pie. 
Rinse  them  well,  pour  over  them  just  enough  boiling 
water  to  barely  cover.  Allow  them  to  stand  where 
they  will  remain  just  below  the  boiling  point  and  puff 
up  well. 

Make  a  rich  pastry  to  cover  bottom  of  the  pie  pan 
and  for  a  latticed  top. 

To  one  cup  of  sugar  add  and  mix  well  one  heaping 
tablespoon  of  flour.  Add  this  to  the  raisins  and  pour 
into  the  pie  tin.  Dot  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter 
and  put  the  strips  for  the  lattice  cover  in  place,  moist- 
ening the  edge  of  the  pastry  to  make  the  ends  of  the 
strips  adhere.    Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  medium  oven. 

This  may  be  made  doubly  rich  by  serving  with  it 
ice  cream  or  whipped  cream  piped  over  it  just  before 
serving.    It  may  be  eaten  warm  or  cold. 

110 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 


In  preparing  the  pastry  for  the  lattice  top  it  will 
be  all  the  lighter  by  pressing  the  pastry  about  one-half 
inch  thick  and  buttering  it  as  you  would  a  piece  of 
bread  and  then  folding  it  over  from  each  side,  doubling 
it,  then  rolling  to  the  desired  thickness. 


RAISIN  PIE— No.  2 
MATERIALS : 

1  heaping  cup  raisins  1     cup  sugar 

Yz  cup  sour  cream  ^  cup  fine  bread  crumbs 

Water  to  scald  raisins  Rich  pastry 

PREPARATION : 

Scald  the  raisins  and  drain,  then  place  in  rich  pastry. 
Mix  the  sugar,  bread  crumbs  and  cream  and  pour  over 
the  raisins.  Cover  with  lattice  top,  bake  half  hour  in 
moderate  oven. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE 
MATERIALS : 

1     pint  cranberries  1     cup  sugar 

Yz  cup   seeded   raisins —  "%.  teaspoon  vanilla 

put  through  food  1     level  tablespoon  flour 
chopper  mixed  with  sugar 

PREPARATION: 

Cut  each  cranberry  in  two  and  place  them  over  the 
fire  with  as  little  water  as  possible.  Boil  but  a  moment 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  raisins,  sugar 
and  vanilla. 

Line  a  shallow  pie  tin  with  a  rich  pastry,  pour  in  the 
filling,  dot  with  a  little  butter  and  cover  with  either  a 
lattice  of  pastry  or  entirely. 

Ill 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Always  remember  to  moisten  the  rim  of  the  under 
pastry  before  pressing  the  upper  one  closely  to  it.  This 
precaution,  with  a  vent  in  the  upper  crust,  will  prevent 
the  juice  from  running  out  of  the  pie. 


KASE  KUCHEN  (Cheese  Pie) 
MATERIALS : 

4  eggs  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 

1  cup  sugar  lemon 

2  cups  cottage  cheese 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating,  add  the  sugar  and 
the  cheese,  which  has  been  rubbed  smooth  through  a 
sieve.  Then  add  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon.  This 
may  be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler  and  then  turned  into 
the  baked  pastry  shell,  and  is  the  better  way.  But  it 
may  be  put  into  the  unbaked  pastry  and  baked  one-half 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cooked  first  in  the  double  boiler,  it  may  also  serve 
as  a  filling  for  tarts,  in  which  case  a  maraschino  cherry 
should  be  placed  in  the  center  of  each. 

Sufficient  for  two  pies. 

CREAM  PIE 

Filling  for  one  pie 

MATERIALS : 

1%  cups  sweet  milk  2  egg  whites  (whipped) 

^2     cup  sugar  Vanilla  to  flavor 

ys     cup  flour  Pastry  for  1  pie 

2  teaspoons  butter 

112 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Cover  a  medium  size  pie  tin  with  rich  pastry  and 
bake.  Place  one  and  one-half  cups  milk  in  double 
boiler.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly  and  add  to 
hot  milk.  When  thickening,  add  the  egg  whites  and 
whip  in,  then  butter  and  flavoring. 

Pour  into  baked  pastry  when  slightly  cooled. 

This  is  much  nicer  than  putting  the  uncooked  filling 
into  the  unbaked  pastry  and  then  baking,  although  this 
is  often  done. 


CUSTARD    PIE 

MATERIALS: 

3  eggs  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour 

1  pint  sweet  milk  4  heaping  tablespoons  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  eggs  just  enough  to  blend  thoroughly,  add 
the  sugar,  then  the  flour.  Heat  the  milk  and  stir  in  the 
mixture.  Flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  a  raw  crust  until 
the  custard  is  set. 


LEMON  PIE 

Filling  for  one  pie 
MATERIALS: 

54  cup  granulated  sugar       1  heaping  tablespoon  flour  or 
^  cup  hot  water  1  thick  slice  of  bread 

1    lemon,  juice  and  rind       2  egg  yolks 

Pastry  shell 
113 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MERINGUE 

2  egg  whites  Few  drops  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar 

PREPARATION: 

Grate  the  lemon  and  reserve  half  of  the  grated  rind 
for  the  meringue. 

Mix  the  granulated  sugar  and  flour,  add  the  hot 
water  and  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
till  thickened.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  slightly  and  mix 
with  a  tablespoon  of  water  and  add  to  the  mixture. 

When  cooled  pour  into  the  baked  pastry  and  spread 
with  the  meringue. 

PREPARATION  OF  MERINGUE: 

Put  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  deep,  narrow  bowl 
and  beat  foamy  with  a  rotary  egg-beater.  Then  add 
one-half  level  teaspoon  of  CALUMET  Baking  Powder 
and  beat  till  stiff,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  very  thor- 
oughly. Place  under  broiler  flame  for  a  moment  or 
two  to  brown,  or  in  an  oven  with  good  top  heat. 


PIE-PLANT  PIE 

MATERIALS: 

2  cups  pie  plant  1  tablespoon  flour  (rounding) 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter   (level) 

Pastry 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  pie-plant  in  inch  long  pieces  after  washing, 
but  not  peeling.  Mix  the  sugar  and  flour.  Sprinkle 
over  the  pie-plant  in  layers  in  the  pastry.     Dot  with 

114 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

pieces  of  butter.  Moisten  the  edges  of  the  pastry  and 
press  down  the  edge  of  the  cover  well.  Make  openings 
for  steam  vent.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

FRUIT   PIES 

Apple,  green  tomato,  blueberry,  raspberry,  black- 
berry and  cranberry  pies  require  the  same  treatment 
as  pieplant  pie,  the  amount  of  sugar  depending  upon 
the  flavor  of  the  fruit.  The  rule  is  about  one  cupful 
of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  few 
dots  of  butter. 

Spice  may  or  may  not  be  used,  to  suit  the  taste. 

If  the  fruit  like  pieplant  or  cranberries  are  very  acid 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  may  be  sifted  with  the  sugar 
and  flour. 

The  blueberry  and  cranberry  pies  are  often  covered 
with  a  lattice  instead  of  an  entire  cover  of  pastry. 

DUTCH  APPLE  PIE 

Select  apples  which  will  quickly  cook  tender.  Line 
a  pie  tin  with  rich  pastry,  make  a  small  braid  or  twist 
of  pastry  to  border  the  pan.  Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon  with  1  cupful 
of  sugar.  Cut  the  apples  into  thick  slices  or  eighths. 
Arrange  them  overlapping  in  the  pastry  shell.  Sprinkle 
with  the  sugar,  dot  with  butter.  Cover  for  the  first 
15  minutes  and  bake  30  to  40  minutes. 

PINEAPPLE   PIE   FILLING 
MATERIALS : 

2    cups  shredded  pine-  "%,  cup  cream  (sweet  or  sour) 

apple  or  equivalent  in  Yz  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

fresh  fruit  1     level  tablespoon  butter 

1     cup  sugar  3    egg  yolks 

Yz  cup  flour 

115 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

This  filling  may  be  mixed  and  baked  in  either  an  un- 
covered pastry  or  with  lattice. 

It  may  be  cooked  in  a  saucepan  and  poured  when 
cold  into  a  baked  pastry  shell  or  into  tart  shells. 

The  egg  whites  may  be  made  into  a  Meringue  with 
three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  The  Meringue  can  then  be 
spread  over  the  pies  or  if  tarts  are  made  the  Meringue 
may  be  heaped  on  the  filling. 

SCOTCH   APPLE   TART 

MATERIALS : 

Pastry  1  cup  raisins,  (seeded) 

2  cups  stewed  apples  Sugar  to  sweeten 

Slivers  of  thin  rind  of 
lemon 

PREPARATION: 

Line  sides  of  tart  tins  or  ramekins  with  pastry,  half 
fill  with  combined  ingredients,  cover  with  pastry  and 
bake  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

APPLE   CUSTARD   PIE 

MATERIALS : 

1/4  cups  apple  sauce  2  heaping  tablespoons  bread 

1  cup  hot  milk  crumbs,   flavoring  of 
^     cup  sugar                                  lemon  or  spice,  baked 

2  eggs  pastry  shell 

PREPARATION: 

Heat  the  milk,  add  the  mixed  crumbs  and  sugar  and 
the  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten.  Whip  in  the  hot  apple 
sauce  and  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Cool  and  heap 
in  pastry  shell. 

116 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

CAKES 

AND  THEIR  PROCESS 

The  housewife  who  can  serve  to  her  family  and 
guests  dainty  and  rich  cakes  is  the  envy  of  her  less  for- 
tunate sisters,  and  perhaps  her  near  friend  will  ex- 
claim, "you  always  do  have  such  luck  with  your  cakes." 

Perhaps  luck  may  enter  into  the  work  once  in  a 
while,  and  sometimes  too,  a  clever  guess  may  be  made 
as  to  the  materials,  but  guesswork  spells  failure  more 
often  than  success. 

Neither  does  the  art  of  cake  making  consist  in  the 
possession  of  numerous  recipes.  It  depends  upon  cer- 
tain fundamental  rules  and  a  certain  knowledge  of  the 
application  of  heat.  Some  people  grasp  these  things 
intuitively,  while  others  have  to  give  more  thought  to 
the  subject. 

For  instance,  eggs  and  their  manipulation  are  one 
of  the  main  stumbling  blocks,  although  each  detail  of 
cake  making  is  important.  Eggs  contain  albumen,  which 
coagulates  at  about  130  degrees  Fahr.,  while  flour  has 
to  be  subjected  to  a  much  greater  heat  in  order  to  cook 
the  starch.  Therefore  it  will  readily  be  understood  that 
all  cakes  must  rise  to  their  full  extent  before  browning 
over  the  top  or  applying  heat  enough  to  cook  the  flour. 

A  quickly  effervescing  baking  powder  is  also  to  be 
avoided  in  the  making  of  cakes.  If  a  quickly  effer- 
vescing baking  powder  is  used,  it  should  be  held  back 
until  the  cake  is  ready  for  the  pan,  when  it  should  be 
beaten  in  thoroughly  and  the  batter  immediately  put 
into  the  pan  for  baking.  More  important  still  is  the 
proportion  of  baking  powder. 

Accuracy  in  measurement  of  all  materials  is  abso- 
lutely necessary.  Every  kitchen  should  be  provided 
with  one  or  two  of  the  glass  or  tin  measuring  cups  and 

117 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

with  them  this  accuracy  can  be  obtained.  Other  tools 
necessary  for  the  cake  making  are  the  egg  whip  for  the 
whites  of  the  egg  and  a  rotary  beater  for  the  yolks,  a 
wooden  spoon  with  slotted  bowl  for  the  creaming  of 
butter  and  sugar  and  mixing.  The  large  size  ordinary 
milk  crock  is  superior  to  any  other  mixing  bowl. 

For  the  baking  of  cakes  the  aluminum  pans  with  the 
tubes  are  a  little  better  than  those  without.  Do  not 
grease  the  sides  of  the  cake  pans.  Grease  the  bottom 
and  flour.  A  paper  is  necessary  for  fruit  loaf  cakes  and 
for  any  cake  baked  in  a  long  sheet.  Do  not  grease 
either  paper  or  pan,  unless  the  paper  does  not  entirely 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Then  grease  the  uncov- 
ered bottom  and  corners. 

Prepare  the  pans  first,  then  prepare  and  measure  all 
the  materials  before  beginning  the  mixing.  The  whites 
and  yolks  of  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  separately  unless 
the  recipe  specifically  directs  otherwise.  If  the  butter 
is  cold  and  hard,  warm  the  sugar  slightly  or  add  a 
couple  of  tablespoons  of  hot  water  to  the  sugar. 
Never  melt  the  butter.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly,  until  white  and  curdled. 

In  making  measurements,  level  off  the  cup  or  spoon 
with  a  knife.  The  proper  proportion  of  baking  powder 
is  one  level  teaspoon  for  each  level  cup  of  flour.  Cakes 
are  never  as  delicious  made  with  bread  flour  as  with 
winter  wheat  or  pastry  flour.  All  cake  recipes  presup- 
pose that  winter  wheat  flour  is  to  be  used.  Therefore, 
if  bread  flour  is  used,  the  measurement  must  be  one- 
fifth  less  as  bread  flour  takes  up  more  moisture,  or  sub- 
stitute for  one-third  of  the  flour  an  equal  amount  of 
corn  starch  or  rice  starch. 

HIGH   ALTITUDES 

Almost  all  cake  recipes  are  compounded  for  low 
altitude  and  the  amount  or  proportion  of  flour  depends 

118 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 


on  the  altitude.  For  instance,  a  cake  recipe  calling  for 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  in  ordinary  altitude  would 
in  Butte  or  Denver,  or  any  point  in  the  mountains,  re- 
quire three  cups,  about  one-fifth,  more  flour. 

Do  not  use  butter  for  greasing  the  pans,  as  there  is 
the  same  objection  to  it  as  in  all  other  forms  of  cook- 
ing, it  burns  too  easily.    Use  vegetable  oil  or  lard. 

Begin  the  baking  of  cakes  in  a  low  oven,  220  degrees 
Fahr.  As  soon  as  the  cake  batter  has  risen  to  its  full 
extent,  increase  the  heat  and  when  well  set  and  lightly 
browned,  reduce  the  heat  if  not  quite  baked. 

The  texture  of  a  cake  containing  many  eggs  may  be 
toughened  by  too  hot  an  oven,  just  the  same  as  a  puff 
omelet  is  spoiled  by  over  cooking. 

If  sour  milk  is  used,  neutralize  its  acid  with  the 
smallest  bit  of  soda  and  use  about  half  as  much  baking 
powder  as  with  sweet  milk. 

If  fruit  or  nuts  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  cake,  it 
shows  that  the  batter  is  too  thin. 

An  accurate  unit  of  measure  could  not  be  established 
for  unsifted  flour,  as  its  density  differs.  That  is  why  we 
always  say  sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring.  Then 
add  the  baking  powder  and  sift  two  or  three  times  to 
insure  the  perfect  mixing  of  the  two  materials. 

When  cakes  are  properly  mixed  and  the  materials 
proportioned,  there  is  no  danger  of  the  usual  activity 
around  the  house  disturbing  the  cake  or  causing  it  to  fall 
when  an  efficient  baking  powder,  Calumet,  is  used.  When 
many  egg  whites  are  required  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  added  to  the  whites  when  beaten  foamy  will  be  an 
advantage,  as  the  acid  has  the  property  of  keeping  the 
air  cells  intact.  This  is  particularly  desirable  in  the 
making  of  Meringues. 

A  cake  is  ready  to  take  from  the  oven  when  it  will 
spring  back  after  a  slight  pressure  of  the  finger. 

119 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Cakes  baked  in  shallow  or  layer  cake  pans  require 
about  one-fifth  more  flour  than  when  baked  in  loaf 
pans.  A  corresponding  proportion  of  baking  powder 
should  also  be  used. 

Before  the  advent  of  baking  powder,  cakes  were 
made  without  leavening  in  some  instances,  such  as  fruit 
cakes  and  pound  cakes,  but  the  digestive  habit  of  the 
people  is  different  from  that  of  sixty  years  ago,  we  now 
demand  that  bread  and  cake  mixtures  be  leavened  in 
order  that  the  digestive  process  is  not  overtaxed  as  it 
would  be  by  the  admission  of  heavy  cakes  and  breads. 

You  are  therefore  advised  that  when  some  of  the 
old-fashioned  fruit  cake  recipes  are  brought  out  for  use, 
that  you  add  soda  to  neutralize  the  acid  of  the  molasses, 
jellies  or  sour  milk  that  enter  into  their  composition. 
Do  not  perpetuate  such  a  dietetic  blunder  as  to  serve 
the  family  with  cakes  which  are  not  lightened  and  made 
digestible  with  a  good  quality  baking  powder. 

Use  of  soda  should  be  restricted  to  the  amxount 
necessary  to  neutralize  or  counteract  the  acid  of  the 
milk  or  molasses.  Please  understand  that  not  enough 
carbon  dioxide  would  be  thus  generated  to  leaven  the 
amount  of  flour  used  for  such  mixtures,  therefore,  it  is 
necessary  to  supply  the  carbon  dioxide  in  the  form  of 
baking  powder  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  level  tea- 
spoon to  each  cup  of  flour,  when  soda  is  used  to  correct 
the  acid  of  molasses  or  sour  milk. 

ADJUSTING  OVEN 

The  tendency  of  many  ovens  is  to  accumulate  too 
great  a  heat  in  the  upper  part.  It  is  sometimes  neces- 
sary to  place  a  shallow  pan  on  the  upper  rack  directly 
over  the  cake.  The  pan  need  not  have  any  water  in  it. 

Appearance  while  baking  is  guide  to  manipulating 
the  heat.    The  cake  should  look  raw  and  bubbly  over 

120 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

the  top  until  just  as  high  as  it  is  going  to  be,  then  in- 
crease the  heat  slightly.  The  last  ten  minutes  of  bak- 
ing, the  heat  is  usually  decreased. 

FISHER   VELVET  CAKE 
MATERIALS : 


2 

eggs 

ly^  cups  flour 

Vz 

cup  milk 

Yz     cup  sugar 

H 

cup  butter 

2      tablespoons  water 

IH 

level   teaspoons   Calu- 

3      drops  lemon  extract 

met  Baking  Powder 

3       drops  vanilla  extract 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring.  Measure  into 
the  sifter,  add  Calumet  and  sift  three  times;  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  until  frothy;  beat  the  Qgg  yolks 
until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  then  beat  them  well  into 
the  creamed  butter  and  sugar;  whip  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  until  stiff,  then  whip  into  the  mixture ;  pour  in  the 
milk  and  water,  sift  in  flour,  add  the  extract  and  beat 
all  until  smooth. 

Bake  in  small  loaf  pan,  forty-five  minutes,  allowing 
the  mixture  to  rise  as  high  as  it  will  before  browning 
over  the  top. 

If  baked  in  shallow  pan  or  in  layer  pans,  one-third 
cup  of  flour  should  be  added. 

SNOW  CAKE 
MATERIALS : 

2  egg  whites  lYz  cups  sifted  pastry  flour 
^  cup  butter  Yz     cup  sugar 

Yi  cup  milk  XYi  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

3  drops  extract  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  four  times.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  Qgg  whites  stiff  and  add  to 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk,  flour  and  extract 
and  beat  until  smooth. 

This  will  make  two  small  layers  or  one  small  loaf. 

121 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

BRIDE'S  CAKE 

(White  Delicate  Cake) 
MATERIALS : 

Whites  of  6  eggs  1^  cups  sugar 

3    cups  flour  Yz     cup  butter 

Ya,  cup  milk  ^     teaspoon  extract 

3    level    teaspoons    Calu- 
met Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

First  prepare  the  pan  by  greasing  the  bottom  and 
flouring.  Measure  the  flour  which  has  been  sifted  once, 
then  add  the  baking  powder  and  sift  four  times. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  until  very  stiff. 

Add  the  beaten  eggs  to  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar  and  mix  lightly,  then  add  milk,  flour  and  extract 
and  beat  vigorously. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  not  less  than  forty-five 
minutes. 

ONE   EGG   CAKE 
MATERIALS : 

1     egg  12/3  cups  sifted  flour 

Ya,  cup  butter  Yi     cup  sugar 

Yz  cup  milk  V/z  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

3     drops  flavoring  extract  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring  and  four  times 
after  adding  the  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  white  and  fluffy. 
Break  the  %^%  without  separating  into  the  creamed 
butter  and  sugar  and  beat  well. 

Then  add  the  milk,  flour  and  extract  and  beat  until 
smooth.  This  amount  will  make  two  small  layers  or 
one  small  loaf.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 
Will  also  make  one  dozen  drop  cakes  baked  in  deep  gem 
pans. 

132 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

DEVILS   FOOD 

MATERIALS:   (for  custard): 

2  level  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  level  teaspoons  allspice 

2  level  teaspoons  cloves  1  level  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  level  teaspoon  mace  2  squares  chocolate 

6  level  tablespoons  sugar  6  level  tablespoons  milk 

MATERIALS  (for  cake)  : 

2^  cups  sifted  flour  4       eggs 

54     cup  milk  1%  cups  sugar  (granulated) 

2^  level  teaspoons   Calu-      %     cup  butter 
met  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION : 

To  make  the  custard  put  the  broken  chocolate  into 
a  small  bowl  over  hot  water,  add  the  sugar,  spices  and 
milk.  Stir  until  smooth  when  set  aside  to  cool  while 
mixing  the  cake. 

Sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring.  Measure  into 
the  sifter,  add  the  CALUMET  and  sift  three  times. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  frothy.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  then 
beat  into  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  Whip  the  egg 
whites  stiff  and  add  lightly  to  the  mixture,  pour  in  the 
milk,  sift  in  the  flour  and  mix  until  smooth.  Then  beat 
the  custard  into  the  batter  until  thoroughly  mixed. 

This  cake  baked  in  a  loaf  pan  must  bake  about  forty 
to  forty-five  minutes  and  heat  must  be  regulated  so 
that  cake  will  rise  as  high  as  it  will  before  browning 
over  the  top. 

Baked  in  layer  pans  it  requires  one-half  cup  more  of 
flour  and  one-half  level  teaspoon  of  Calumet.  When 
baked  this  cake  is  very  smooth  and  rich.  If  baked  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  meringue  icing  in  which 
chopped  nuts,  raisins  and  figs  are  mixed  it  is  an  exceed- 
ingly rich  cake. 

123 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

HOT  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE 

MATERIALS : 

IY2  cups  flour  Y2  cup  hot  water 

1       cup  sugar  3     eggs 

V/z  level  teaspoons  Calu-  3     drops  flavoring  extract  or 
met  Baking  Powder  grated  rind  of  orange 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  four  or  five  times. 
Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored.  Whip  the  whites  until  stiff,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  whip  a  moment  more,  add  the  yolks  and  whip 
again. 

Sift  in  the  flour,  add  extract. 

Pour  the  hot  water  quickly  around  the  bowl  and  as 
quickly  whip  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  imme- 
diately into  greased  and  floured  pans. 

May  be  baked  in  layers  and  put  together  with 
whipped  cream  or  fruit  or  berry  meringue. 

This  will  make  one  medium  loaf  or  three  small 
layers. 


DATE 

CAKE 

MATERIALS ; 

34     cup  sugar  (brown) 

1       egg 

3^    cup  butter  (6  level 

lYi  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

tablespoons) 

Baking  Powder 

1^  cups  flour 

Y2     level  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yz     cup  milk 

and  nutmeg 

Y^     pound  stoned  dates 

cut  in  4  pieces 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  flour,  spices  and  Calumet  five  times.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Break  the  white  of  the  egg  into 
a  bowl  and  beat  very  stiff,  drop  in  the  yolk  and  beat 
three  minutes.  Add  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  pour  in 
the  milk  and  add  the  flour,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  dates.    Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  low  oven. 

124 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS   FOR   FRUIT   CAKES 

When  planning  to  make  fruit  cake  make  a  list  of 
all  materials  needed,  and  check  off  those  at  hand. 

Prepare  all  fruits,  nuts,  etc.,  the  day  before  mixing 
and  baking. 

To  prepare  citron,  lemon  and  orange  peel,  drop  them 
into  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes,  after  which  they  can 
be  easily  sliced  or  chopped. 

Cleanse  all  fruits  and  chop  or  slice  as  determined  by 
recipe,  the  day  previous.  Prepare  pan  by  fitting  with 
two  or  three  thicknesses  of  note  paper  or  heavy  wrap- 
ping paper.  Cut  the  paper  so  that  corners  of  pans  are 
not  crowded  with  paper.  Grease  the  pans  only  where 
the  paper  does  not  cover.    Do  not  grease  the  paper. 

The  mixing  of  the  cake  is  accomplished  the  same 
as  with  other  cakes.  Then  the  fruit  is  floured  and  added 
the  last  thing. 

To  bake  the  fruit  cake  place  the  pans  in  a  large  drip- 
ping pan  or  roaster.  Pour  cold  water  to  the  depth  of 
one  and  one-half  inches.  Do  not  allow  the  water  to 
entirely  dry  out  but  add  boiling  water  if  required. 
Bake  fruit  cake  from  two  to  three  hours,  depending 
upon  the  size.  The  oven  should  be  regulated  to  240 
degrees  Fahrenheit  for  the  first  hour,  and  increasing 
slightly  before  taking  cakes  from  the  oven.  Cover  each 
cake  loosely  until  half  an  hour  of  removing  from  the 
oven. 

Fruit  cakes  may  be  kept  indefinitely  if  thoroughly 
baked  and  kept  where  dampness  will  not  cause  mold. 

One  old-fashioned  precaution  was  to  sprinkle  cakes 
with  brandy. 

Brandy  was  used  in  place  of  sherry  or  grape  juice. 
However,  the  two  latter  ingredients  make  the  cake  less 
indigestible.  Whiskey  is  entirely  out  of  place  and 
ruinous  to  the  flavor. 

125 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 


A  good  heavy  covering  of  icing  tends  to  preserve 
fruit  cake  and  is  to  be  recommended. 


FRUIT   CAKE 


MATERIALS : 


1     cup  butter 

1     cup  sugar 

1     cup  cherries    crystal- 
lized or  maraschino 

1     cup  preserved  kum- 
quats,  drained 

1     cup  blanched  almonds, 
ground 

1     cup  hickory  nuts  or 
pecans 

Yz  cup  jelly,  currant  or 
plum 

3    cups  flour 


Yo,  cup  grape  juice  or  sherry 

Yz  pound  citron 

Yst  pound  each  lemon  and 

orange  peel 
2    level  teaspoons  cinnamon 
Y^  level  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Y^  level  teaspoon  mace 
^  level  teaspoon  allspice 
2     level  teaspoons  cocoa 
2    level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
Yz  level  teaspoon  soda 
6     eggs 


3     cups  raisins  (seedless) 
PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  cake  according  to  instructions  for  fruit 
cakes,  reserving  the  cherries  and  Kumquats  or  crys- 
talized  pineapple  until  the  batter  is  in  the  pans.  Then 
distribute  these  fruits  over  the  surface. 

With  a  silver  knife  press  them  into  the  batter 
evenly. 

This  recipe  will  make  about  seven  pounds  of  fruit 
cake. 

BLACK   FRUIT    CAKE 
MATERIALS : 


1  pound  butter 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins 
2     pounds  currants 

1    pound  orange  peel 
54  pound  citron 
Rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons 
1     cup  N.  O.  molasses 

1  pound  flour 

2  pounds  Sultana  raisins 
1  pound  granulated  sugar 
54  pound  lemon  peel 


2     squares  chocolate  (melted) 

10  eggs 

1     cup  brown  sherry  or  grape 
juice 
level  teaspoons  allspice 
level  teaspoons  cinnamon 
level  teaspoon  cloves 
level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
level  teaspoon  soda 


126 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  citron,  lemon  and  orange 
peel,  then  at  once  remove  the  lemon  and  orange  peel, 
squeezing  out  any  water  and  run  through  coarse  knife 
of  the  food  chopper.  Remove  citron  and  slice  thin  and 
cut  in  inch  pieces.  Then  using  an  additional  cup  of 
flour,  carefully  flour  the  raisins,  currants  and  citron. 
Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten 
without  separating,  molasses,  flour  in  which  baking 
powder  and  soda  have  been  sifted,  spices,  grape  juice 
and  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon  and  melted  chocolate. 
Then  add  the  fruit.  Steam  three  hours  and  remove  to  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour,  or  place  pan  in  shallow  pan 
of  water  in  moderate  oven  and  bake  two  hours,  cover- 
ing the  cakes  the  first  hour.    A  roaster  may  be  used. 

This  recipe  makes  about  fourteen  pounds. 

MINCED  FRUIT  CAKE 

Here  is  a  recipe  for  a  fruit  cake  that  will  keep  in- 
definitely and  is  much  more  economical  than  most  fruit 
cakes. 
MATERIALS : 

1     pound  raisins  3  level  teaspoons  Calumet 
1     pound  currants  Baking  Powder 

54  pound  candied  lemon  5  cups  pastry  flour 

peel  Yz  cup  pastry  flour 

Y/i,  pound  candied  orange  1  cup  N.  O.  molasses 

peel  2  cups  sugar 

Yz  pound  citron  2  cups  boiling  water 

1     pound  fat  salt  pork  1  cup  nut  meats 

4    level  teaspoons  nutmeg  4  eggs 
1     level  teaspoon  each 

soda,  cloves,  allspice 

and  mace 

PREPARATION : 

Cover  the  citron,  lemon  and  orange  peel  with  warm 
water  for  ten  minutes.  Take  out  the  citron  and  cut  with 
a  sharp  knife  in  inch  pieces,  sliced  thin.    Put  the  lemon 

127 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

and  orange  peel  through  the  food  chopper,  follow  with 
half  of  the  raisins  and  then  the  salt  pork,  freed  from 
lean  meat  and  skin. 

Put  all  the  materials  that  have  been  put  through  the 
food  chopper  into  a  mixing  bowl,  pour  over  these  the 
pint  of  boiling  water  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved, add  the  molasses,  sugar  and  spices.  Flour  the 
raisins,  currants  and  citron  with  the  one-half  cup  of 
flour.  Sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring,  then  meas- 
ure, add  the  Calumet  baking  powder  and  sift  three  times. 

Beat  up  the  eggs  without  separating  and  add  to  the 
mixture  in  the  mixing  bowl,  then  add  the  flour  and  stir 
hard.  Add  the  fruit  and  nuts.  This  mixture  is  suffi- 
cient for  two  large  cake  pans,  with  tubes,  such  as  the 
ten-egg  angel  cake  is  baked  in.  Do  not  attempt  to  bake 
this  in  a  large  pan  without  the  tube,  but  it  may  be  baked 
in  the  half-size  cake  tins  or  individual  bread  tins. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  to  bake  the  cake  slowly,  allow- 
ing it  to  rise  to  its  full  capacity  before  forming  a  crust 
over  the  top.    Bake  not  less  than  forty-five  minutes. 

GOLD  CAKE 
MATERIALS : 

2^2  cups  sifted  flour  ^-  level  teaspoon  orange 

154  cups  sugar  extract 

Y3     cup  butter  ^2  level  teaspoon  vanilla 

^     cup  milk  extract 

«H  level  teaspoons  Calu-  7     egg  yolks 
met  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour  and  Calumet  four  times.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  until  white  and  fluffy.  Beat  the  egg 
yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Whip  them  into 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  in  the  flour,  pour  in  the  milk, 
add  the  extract  and  beat  until  smooth.  Bake  in  low 
oven  forty-five  minutes. 

12s 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

NUTMEG   CAKE  (Layer) 
MATERIALS: 

Yz     cup  butter  2^  level  teaspoons  Calumet 
1       cup  sugar  Baking  Powder 

25^  cups  pastry  flour  1  level  teaspoon  nutmeg 

sifted  1  level  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^    cup  water  2  eggs 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  flour,  Calumet  and  spices  several  times.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  with  one  tablespoon  of  hot  water. 
Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the  whites  very  stiff  and  then 
drop  yolks  in  and  continue  beating  for  a  moment.  Whip 
them  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  water  and  flour 
and  beat  until  smooth.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Put  to- 
gether with  plain  icing,  and  cover  top  with  the  same. 
This  may  be  baked  in  gem  pans. 

If  baked  in  loaf  pan,  use  one-half  cup  of  flour  less, 
reducing  the  baking  powder  one-half  teaspoon. 

JELLY   ROLL 

MATERIALS : 

1       cup  sugar  V/z  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Yz     cup  butter  Baking  Powder 

254  cups  flour  (pastry)  1  teaspoon  flavoring  extract 

6  eggs 

PREPARATION: 

Prepare  two  pans  (about  7x14  inches),  or  one  pan 
twice  the  dimensions,  by  greasing  the  corners  only  and 
lining  the  bottom  of  each  with  ungreased  paper.  Sift 
the  flour  once  before  measuring.  Add  the  baking 
powder  to  the  flour  and  sift  four  times. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  white  and  curdled, 
add  the  well  beaten  eggs,  then  the  flour  and  the  extract. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  spread  half  of  the  batter  on  each 

129 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

pan.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  putting  one  pan  into  the 
oven  slightly  in  advance  of  the  other  so  as  to  have  the 
first  rolled  before  the  other  is  ready,  as  they  must  not 
be  allowed  to  cool  before  rolling. 

They  are  ready  to  take  from  the  oven  when  they  will 
spring  back  after  a  slight  pressure  of  the  finger  on  the 
center. 

While  baking,  place  your  jelly  in  readiness,  and  a 
thin  knife  or  spatula  with  which  to  spread  it.  Lay  a 
damp  towel  on  your  table,  and  just  before  removing 
your  cake  from  the  oven,  lay  a  dry  towel  over  the  damp 
one  and  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar. 

Turn  the  cake  onto  this  and  if  the  edges  have  become 
crisp  in  the  baking,  trim  them  with  a  sharp  knife,  then 
quickly  and  evenly  spread  the  jelly  very  thin.  Take 
the  end  of  the  upper  towel  near  you  and  holding  it  firmly 
roll  the  cake  over  and  over,  without  allowing  the  towel 
to  roll  with  it.  Allow  it  to  stand  five  minutes,  when  it 
will  be  ready  to  slice  or  lay  away. 

BURNT    LEATHER   CAKE 

MATERIALS  FOR  CARAMEL: 

2/^  cup  sugar  %  cup  boiling  water 

MATERIALS  FOR  CAKE: 

1%  cups  sugar  K  cup  butter 

3       cups  flour  54     cup  water 

3      eggs,  white  and  yolk      3    level  teaspoons  Calumet 


PREPARATION : 


Baking  Powder 


Make  a  caramel  of  the  sugar  by  putting  it  into  a 
small  steel  saucepan  and  browning  until  short  of  the 
burning  point,  then  dissolve  it  with  the  boiling  water 
and  stand  aside  until  required  for  the  cake. 

Measure  the  sifted  flour,  add  the  baking  powder  to 
it  and  sift  four  times. 

130 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  the  well  beaten 
egg  yolks  and  then  whip  in  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites. 

Pour  in  the  water,  add  half  of  the  caramel  (which 
should  measure  about  two  tablespoons)  add  the  flour 
and  beat  thoroughly. 

Pour  into  a  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  When  cool  cover  with  a  boiled  icing  to  which 
has  been  added  the  balance  of  the  caramel. 

ST.  PATRICK  CAKE 
MATERIALS : 

Whites  of  7  eggs  1^4  cups  granulated  sugar 

3     cups  of  pastry  flour  ^     cup  butter 

^  cup  milk  3       level  teaspoons  Calumet 
1     teaspoon  extract  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Prepare  first  a  large  round  cake  pan  with  a  tube  in 
the  center,  by  greasing  only  the  bottom  and  flouring  it. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  grease  the  sides. 

Sift  the  flour  and  measure  level  cupfuls,  add  the  bak- 
ing powder  and  sift  three  times. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  very  thoroughly,  beat 
the  whites  very  stiff.  Whip  the  whites  very  lightly  into 
the  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  To  this  mixture  add  the 
milk,  flavoring  and  flour  and  beat  thoroughly. 

Pour  into  the  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  not 
less  than  forty-five  minutes.  This  means  that  the  cake 
must  rise  to  its  full  capacity  before  allowing  it  to  brown 
over.  Allow  to  cool  slightly  before  taking  it  from  the 
pan. 

Cover  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake  with  meringue 
icing. 

Prepare  green  mint  cherries,  cutting  in  halves. 
Place  them  in  groups  of  three  to  simulate  shamrocks 

131 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

over  the  top  of  the  cake,  using  strips  of  citron  for  stems. 
In  place  of  the  cherries  blanched  pistachio  nuts  may  be 
cut  fine  and  sprinkled  over  the  top  and  sides  of  this 
cake. 

POUND    CAKE 

MATERIALS: 

1  pound  sugar  1     tablespoon  of  orange 
1  pound  flour  (pastry)  flower  or  rose  water 
Whites  of  12  eggs  Yx  cup  sherry- 
Yolks  of  9  eggs  1    level  teaspoon  Calumet 


Baking  Powder 


PREPARATION: 


Cream  the  butter,  then  add  the  sugar  gradually  and 
beat  until  white  and  curdled.  Beat  the  yolks  until 
thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  them  gradually  to  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  fifteen  minutes.  Sift 
the  flour  and  baking  powder  six  times  and  add  to  the 
mixture  a  little  at  a  time,  beat  five  minutes,  add  sherry 
and  rose  water  gradually,  beating  all  the  time.  Whip 
the  egg  whites  very  stiff,  then  add  them  lightly  to  the 
other  ingredients. 

Bake  in  a  pan  with  a  tube,  about  one  and  one-half 
hours,  not  allowing  it  to  brown  over  the  slightest  until 
as  high  in  the  pan  as  it  will  be.  This  is  a  rule  to  follow 
in  all  cake  making,  but  more  particularly  with  a  cake 
containing  so  many  eggs. 

QUICK   DROP    CAKES 
MATERIALS: 

6  level  tablespoons  soft  2  eggs 

butter  or  other  2  level  teaspoons  Calumet 
shortening  Baking  Powder 

2  cups  sifted  flour  Spices  or  flavoring  extract 
1  cup  milk  may  be  used 

132 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder.  Separate  the  eggs, 
placing  the  whites  in  the  mixing  bowl,  beat  very  stiff 
with  a  rotary  egg  beater,  add  the  egg  yolks  and  beat. 
Then  add  the  sugar  and  shortening.  Beat  enough  to 
mix  well.  Add  milk  and  flour,  spices  or  extract  and 
mix.  Fill  gem  pans  about  half  full  and  bake  about 
twenty  minutes.  These  cakes  are  very  dainty  served 
warm. 

When  cold  they  can  be  sliced  crosswise,  then 
toasted,  and  covered  with  an  icing  of  powdered  sugar 
and  chopped  pecans  or  maraschino  cherries  sprinkled 
over  the  top. 

HUCKLEBERRY   CAKE 
MATERIALS : 

%    cup  butter  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon 
%    cup  sugar  and  nutmeg 

1%  cups  flour  1  pint  berries  dredged  with 
%     cup  sweet  milk  flour 

1%  teaspoons  Calumet  1  egg 
Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Mix  cake  batter  as  usual.  Stir  the  berries  carefully 
in,  last.    Bake  in  moderate  oven.    Ice  with  plain  icing. 

JAM   CAKE— No.  1 
MATERIALS: 

1  cup  sugar  %  level  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  butter  1     level  teaspoon  Calumet 

2  cups  flour  Baking  Powder 

1     cup  rich  jam  3     tablespoons  buttermilk 

3  level  teaspoons  mixed       3    eggs 

spices 

PREPARATION: 

Mix  as  for  other  cakes,  adding  jam  last. 

This  may  be  baked  in  layers  by  adding  one-quarter 
cup  more  of  flour  and  put  together  with  plain  icing. 

133 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


JAM   CAKE— No.  2 


MATERIALS : 

1     cup  sugar 

34  cup  butter 

3     cups  flour 

54  cup  buttermilk 

1     cup  jam 

1     level  teaspoon  soda 

1 

1 

1 

level  teaspoon  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
level  teaspoon  cinnamon 
level  teaspoon  allspice 
level  teaspoon  mace 
level  teaspoon  cloves 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  as  for  other  cakes.  Add  jam  just  before  pour- 
ing cake  into  the  pans.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

NUT   GOLD   CAKE 
MATERIALS : 

Yolks  of  6  eggs  "Yz    cup  butter 

2^  cups  of  sifted  flour  1       cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

154  cups  sugar  ^     teaspoon  vanilla 

34     cup  milk  V/2  teaspoons  Calumet 

PREPARATION:  Baking  Powder 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  very  thoroughly,  add- 
ing a  tablespoon  of  hot  water  will  quicken  the  work,  as 
it  dissolves  the  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  until  lemon  col- 
ored, mix  with  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar  and  beat. 
Sift  the  flour  once  before  measuring,  then  add  the  bak- 
ing powder  and  sift  four  times.  Add  the  vanilla  to  the 
mixture,  then  the  flour  and  milk  and  beat  hard.  Flour 
the  nuts  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir  in. 

If  this  cake  is  baked  in  layers  one-half  cup  more  of 
flour  and  one-half  level  teaspoon  of  Calumet  is  required. 
If  baked  in  a  loaf  tin,  bake  about  forty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

LEMON   NOUGAT  CAKE 
MATERIALS :     (Custard) 

34  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

3    level  tablespoons  flour        1  egg 

2    tablespoons  water  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 


lemons 


134 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Make  a  custard  of  the  above  ingredients,  putting  the 
water,  lemon  juice  and  rind  with  the  butter  into  a  double 
cooker.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly  and  add, 
then  the  beaten  egg.  When  cooked  set  it  aside  to  cool 
and  while  cooling  prepare  the  cake  batter. 
MATERIALS :     (Cake) 

1     cup  sugar  2      eggs 

^  cup  butter  2^  cups  pastry  flour 

1     cup  milk  2%  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

1     cup  blanched  almonds  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  until  thick  and  mix  with  the  creamed  butter  and 
sugar.  Add  the  milk.  Sift  the  flour  once  before  meas- 
uring, add  the  baking  powder  and  sift  three  times,  add 
it  to  the  mixture  and  beat  well.  Now  add  the  custard, 
beat  thoroughly  and  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
stiffly  beaten  and  the  cup  of  almonds. 

This  may  be  baked  in  two  thick  layers  and  put  to- 
gether, with  a  plain  boiled  icing  in  which  one  cup  of 
chopped,  blanched  almonds  have  been  mixed,  or  baked 
in  a  loaf  and  covered  with  the  same  kind  of  icing. 

Bake  in  low  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

DRIED  APPLE  CAKE 
MATERIALS; 

1%  cups  dried  apples  2  eggs 

1%  cups  molasses  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

^     cup  raisins  (seeded)        1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 
ly^  cup  flour  Baking  Powder 

%    cup  butter  Spices  to  taste 

PREPARATION: 

Soak  the  apples  in  water  to  cover  over  night.  Drain, 
chop  fine  and  cook  in  molasses  till  tender,  then  add  the 
raisins  and  cook  a  few  moments  more  and  cool. 

When  cold  mix  in  well  beaten  eggs,  the  butter  and 
the  flour,  into  which  the  baking  powder  and  soda  have 
been  sifted,  add  the  spices. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

135 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

SMALL   CAKES,   COOKIES 

VELVET  TEA   BISCUIT 
MATERIALS : 

1     cup  sugar  2     level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Yz  cup  butter  Baking  Powder 

1     egg  Yz  cup  milk 

2    cups  bread  flour 
PREPARATION: 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  well 
beaten  ^g%,  then  the  milk,  and  sift  in  the  flour  and  bak- 
ing powder  together.  It  should  make  a  very  light 
dough,  but  if  too  soft  a  little  more  flour  may  be  added. 
Roll  out  on  a  well  floured  board  and  cut  out  with  a  bis- 
cuit cutter.    Place  close  together  in  shallow  biscuit  pan. 

Bake  about  ten  minutes  and  eat  hot. 


HERMITS 

(A  Drop  Cooky) 
MATERIALS : 

1       egg 

54     cup  brown  sugar 

Yz     cup  butterine 

V/i  cups  flour 

6       tablespoons  milk 

V/z  level  teaspoons  Calu- 

1     teaspoon  cinnamon 
Yz  teaspoon  cloves 
Yz  teaspoon  mace 
Yz  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Yz  cup  raisins 
Yz  cup  nut  meats 

met  Baking  Powder 
PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  materials  in  the  order  given  after  beating 
the  ^%g,  leaving  fruit  till  the  last.  Drop  on  to  greased 
pans  in  round  teaspoonfuls,  allowing  space  in  the  pan 
for  spreading.    Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

This  recipe  will  make  about  four  dozen. 

ENGLISH    ROCKS 
MATERIALS : 

2    cups  flour  1  cup  currants 

Y\  cup  sugar  6  level  tablespoons  shortening 

2    level  teaspoons  Calu-  Pinch  of  salt 

met  Baking  Powder  3  eggs 

137 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour  and  Calumet  four  times.  Work  in  the 
shortening  as  for  biscuits.  Add  the  sugar  and  then  the 
well  beaten  eggs.    Add  currants  last. 

Lift  rough  lumps  of  dough  with  a  fork  onto  well 
greased  pans.  They  should  look  rough  as  possible. 
Bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

ALMOND    WAFERS 
MATERIALS : 

Yz  cup  butter  ^  cup  blanched  and  chopped 

3/^  cup  bread  flour  almonds 

%  cup  sugar  2    eggs 

1     teaspoon  lemon  juice 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour  three  times.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  eggs,  beaten  without  separating,  the 
lemon  juice,  flour,  and  the  nuts.  Drop  onto  greased 
baking  sheets  or  bottom  of  dripping  pan.  Bake  a  very 
light  brown. 

MACAROONS 

In  order  to  cover  the  subject  thoroughly,  I  will  ex- 
plain the  most  satisfactory  method  of  blanching  al- 
monds. 

After  shelling  the  almonds,  pour  over  them  boiling 
water  to  completely  cover.  Allow  them  to  remain  not 
less  than  five  minutes.  Then  throw  them  into  a  coarse 
strainer  and  set  it  in  a  dish  of  cold  water.  All  that 
is  necessary  to  remove  the  skin  is  to  press  between  the 
thumb  and  finger.  Do  not  throw  the  skins  back  in  the 
dish  to  handle  over  again.  Drop  the  almonds  into  cold 
water  until  all  are  blanched,  and  then  drain  and  lay  on 
towel  to  dry. 

188 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MATERIALS : 

1/4  cups  blanched  Yz  cup  powdered  sugar 

almonds  Whites  of  3  eggs 

34     cup  granulated  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Put  the  almonds  through  the  finest  knife  of  the 
food  chopper.  They  should  come  out  of  the  food  chop- 
per in  a  paste. 

Have  the  ^%^  whites  in  a  glass  ready  to  use,  also  the 
sugars  measured.  Pour  about  a  quarter  of  the  granu- 
lated sugar  into  the  nut  paste  and  work  it  in  with  the 
hand,  much  as  butter  and  sugar  are  creamed  for  a 
cake.  Then  add  about  a  third  of  the  egg.  Add  the 
balance  of  the  sugar  and  the  eggs.  Then  last  of  all 
add  the  powdered  sugar. 

If  possible  use  large  baking  sheets  or  shallow  tins. 
Cut  to  barely  fit  them  sheets  of  writing  or  wrapping 
paper.    Do  not  grease  either  the  tins  or  the  paper. 

Make  a  cornucopia  of  wrapping  paper  doubled.  Put 
in  the  paste  and  drop  onto  the  paper  in  little  dabs  about 
the  size  of  a  large  nutmeg,  about  two  inches  apart. 
These  will  spread  as  soon  as  dropped.  This  quantity 
will  make  about  seven  dozen  macaroons.  They  must 
be  baked  in  a  medium  hot  oven  to  a  delicate  brown. 

If  you  have  observed  the  macaroons  made  by  the 
bakers,  you  will  have  seen  that  the  surface  has  a  broken, 
mottled  appearance.  When  taken  from  the  oven  place 
the  papers,  macaroon  side  down,  on  the  cake  board,  and 
lay  a  towel  wrung  from  cold  water  over  them.  This 
will  cause  them  to  sweat.  Then  with  a  knife  they  can 
be  easily  removed. 

If  made  according  to  the  directions  above  given, 
these  macaroons  will  have  the  same  appearance  as 
those  of  the  professionals,  but  are  much  more  tender. 
There  is  not  much  economy  in  making  them  at  home, 
but  a  daintier  article  is  the  result. 

139 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CARDAMON    CAKES 

MATERIALS : 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  ground  or  pow- 

3  heaping  tablespoons  dered  cardamon  seeds 

sugar  Oil  in  which  to  fry 

3  tablespoons  cream  Flour  to  roll  soft  dough 

1  tablespoon  brandy  or 

sherry 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating,  add  materials  in 
order  named.  Roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  in 
square  or  diamond  shape  with  pastry  wheel  about  three 
inches  square.  Drop  into  hot  oil,  watch  carefully,  as 
they  brown  rapidly. 

Do  not  roll  in  sugar. 

The  cardamon  seeds  may  be  obtained  at  the  drug- 
gists. 

Take  out  the  black  seeds  from  the  pods  and  crush 
them  fine. 

BERLIN  CAKES 

(Will  keep  indefinitely) 
MATERIALS : 

3  egg  yolks  (hard  boiled)  4  egg  whites  beaten 

4  egg  yolks  (uncooked)         1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

1  cup   confectioners  sugar  Baking  Powder 
6  cups  pastry  flour                  Granulated  sugar 

2  cups  butter 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  Calumet,  and  confectioners  sugar  four 
times.  Cream  the  cooked  egg  yolks  with  the  uncooked. 
Mix  the  butter  into  the  flour  as  though  for  biscuit.  Add 
the  egg  yolks  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  until  all  used. 

Roll  the  dough  in  small  pieces  about  one-half  inch 
thick,  cut  in  strips,  dip  in  the  beaten  egg  white,  roll  in 
the  granulated  sugar,  and  bake  in  low  oven  a  delicate 
brown. 

140 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

EGOLESS  COOKIES. 

MATERIALS : 

lYz  cups  buttermilk  or  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

sour  cream  1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 
1^  cups  sugar  Baking  Powder 

54    cup  margarine  or  4  cups  sifted  flour 
butter 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  soda  and  Calumet  very  thoroughly, 
mix  in  the  sugar  and  then  the  shortening. 

If  any  more  flour  is  necessary  add  it,  but  care  must 
be  taken  to  avoid  too  much  flour  in  the  cookies. 

Roll  out  a  scant  half  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  cut.  Bake  in  low  oven,  and  do  not  brown  too  much. 
The  cookies  may  be  finished  with  a  raisin  or  nut  meat 
before  putting  into  the  oven. 

PEANUT   COOKIES 

Make  the  Eggless  Cooky  mixture  and  add  one-half 
cup  of  blanched,  chopped  peanuts  that  have  previously 
been  roasted. 

RAISIN   COOKIES 

Make  the  Eggless  Cooky  mixture  and  add  one  cup 
of  seedless  raisins. 

MRS.  BURNSIDES'   COOKIES 

MATERIALS: 

1     cup  sour  cream  1  teaspoon  Calumet  Baking 

1  cup  butter  Powder 

2  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

2    eggs  Flour  to  mix  exceedingly 

Yz  teaspoon  soda  soft 

PREPARATION : 

Warm  the  butter,  cream  the  sugar  and  with  it  add 
the  other  ingredients.  Roll  this  and  cut  out  with  a 
fluted  cutter. 

141 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


GINGER   COOKIES 


MATERIALS 
1 
1 
1 


cup  sugar 
cup  shortening 
cup  molasses 

1  egg 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  ginger 
PREPARATION: 


1  teaspoon  soda  in  3  table- 
spoons water 

1  teaspoon  Calumet  Baking 
Powder 

Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough 


Sift  three  cups  of  flour  with  the  spices  and  Calu- 
met. Beat  the  egg  without  separating,  add  sugar, 
shortening,  molasses  and  flour,  and  enough  more  flour 
to  make  soft  dough.  Roll  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

SCOTCH    SHORT    BREAD 

MATERIALS: 

1  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  lard  1  egg 

1  cup  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  butter,  lard  and  sugar  together.  Add  the 
egg,  then  work  in  the  flour.  Roll  out  and  cut  in  shapes 
with  pastry  cutter.  Shape  the  edges  with  thumb  and 
finger. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven.  They  should  be  white  or 
very  light  brown  when  baked. 

There  are  many  recipes  for  short  bread,  some  in 
which  spice  is  used. 

MIDGETT'S    COOKIES 


MATERIALS : 

154  cups  sugar 

y^  cup  butter  or  margar- 
ine or  any  preferred 
shortening 

4      eggs 

6  tablespoons  milk 

2  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out 

142 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating  the  white  from 
the  yolk.    Add  them  to  the  milk. 

Sift  three  cups  of  flour  and  baking  powder  together. 
Work  in  the  shortening  and  sugar,  work  in  the  milk. 

More  flour  may  be  required  to  make  dough  of  right 
consistency  to  roll  out,  but  use  as  little  as  possible. 
Roll  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  small  cutter. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

SOFT   SUGAR   COOKIES 
MATERIALS: 

1  cup  sour  cream  2  eggs 

Yi  cup  water  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  butter  or  margarine 
PREPARATION: 

Beat  up  the  eggs  without  separating.  Have  the 
butter  or  margarine  soft  without  melting.  Beat  the 
sugar  into  the  eggs,  add  the  butter  and  mix  them.  Add 
the  cream,  water  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon 
of  hot  water  and  flour  to  make  very  soft  dough. 

Roll  thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  run  the  rolling 
pin  over  it  once,  then  cut  with  large  cutter. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MARGUERITES 
MATERIALS: 

Some  long,  narrow  wafer  1    level  tablespoon  lemon 
crackers  juice 

2  egg  whites  Yz  cup  cocoanut 

3  level  tablespoons  sugar  1    dozen  crystallized  cherries 
PREPARATION: 

Whip  the  white  of  the  eggs  foamy.  Then  add 
lemon  juice  and  whip  very  stiff.  Add  the  sugar  and 
whip  it  in  thoroughly.    Then  add  the  cocoanut. 

Heap  a  little  of  this  on  each  cracker,  sprinkle  with 
the  cherries  which  have  been  cut  into  strips. 

Put  into  a  very  low  oven  to  dry  and  slightly  brown. 

143 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  ICINGS 

COLD  ICING 

Take  two  cups  XXXX  sugar,  one  teaspoon  butter 
and  add  cream  or  condensed  milk  to  make  of  right 
consistency,  flavor  as  desired.  Two  tablespoons  cocoa 
may  be  added  to  make  it  a  chocolate  icing. 

MOCHA  ICING 

Take  two  cups  XXXX  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
two  tablespoons  cocoa  and  add  strong  coffee  to  make 
right  consistency;  flavor  with  three  drops  vanilla. 

MARSHMALLOW   ICING 

Take  two  cups  granulated  sugar  and  one-half  water, 
boil  eight  minutes.  Have  beaten  whites  of  two  large 
or  three  small  eggs  ready,  pouring  syrup  over  and  beat 
constantly.  As  mixture  stiffens  add  one  level  teaspoon 
Calumet  Baking  Powder. 

SIMPLE  CHOCOLATE  ICING 

Scald  there  tablespoons  milk,  add  three  tablespoons 
grated  chocolate  and  stir  thoroughly  until  chocolate  is 
dissolved.  Thicken  with  XXXX  sugar  to  desired  con- 
sistency.   Flavor  with  few  drops  vanilla. 

PLAIN   ICING 

This  is  the  simplest  form  of  icing  and  is  made  by 
beating  up  very  thoroughly  confectioners  sugar  dis- 
solved with  hot  water  or  hot  milk.  Allowing  it  to  stand 
an  hour  before  spreading  it,  improves  the  flavor. 

145 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

ORANGE  ICING 

MATERIALS: 

1     egg  white  2J/2  cups  confectioners  sugar 

y2  orange,  juice  and  rind 

PREPARATION : 

Break  the  white  of  an  ^^'g  into  a  bowl,  sift  in  the 
sugar;  grate  only  the  extreme  yellow  of  the  orange 
rind  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  and  beat  all  together  until 
thick  enough  to  spread. 

MOCHA   FILLING 

MATERIALS : 

1^  cups  powdered  sugar      1  egg  white 
6      level  tablespoons  but-     Mocha  extract 
ter  or  butterine 

PREPARATION : 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually.  When 
thoroughly  creamed  add  the  very  stiffly  beaten  ^gg 
white,  then  the  Mocha  extract  to  flavor  the  color. 

This  filling  colored  and  flavored  without  the  Mocha 
makes  a  most  delicious  and  dainty  filling,  covering  or 
decoration  for  large  or  small  cakes.  Piped  through  the 
various  pastry  tubes  or  paper  cornucopias  this  filling 
lends  itself  to  any  shape  or  color  scheme,  and  is  much 
used  in  the  French  pastries. 

MAPLE   SUGAR   ICING 

MATERIALS : 

1  cup  maple  sugar  1  egg  white 

4  tablespoons  water 

PREPARATION : 

Make  a  syrup  that  will  crack  in  ice  water.  Pour  it 
over  the  stiffly  beaten  ^%g  white,  beating  until  right  to 
spread. 

146 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

ADAM   AND    EVE    FILLING 

MATERIALS: 

2  tart  apples  1  cup  sugar 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  3  egg  yolks 

lemon  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs.  Peel 
and  mince  the  apples  into  the  lemon  juice.  Mix  all  of 
the  ingredients  and  place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  the  apples  are  tender. 

If  the  apples  have  bright  red  skins,  wash  but  do  not 
peel  them. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

MATERIALS : 

y^  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1     rounded  tablespoon  4  drops  vanilla 

flour  2  squares  chocolate 

1     egg  Pinch  of  salt 

PREPARATION: 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly  and  stir  into  the 
hot  milk  with  the  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  the  yolk  of  the  egg 
with  a  little  cold  milk  or  water  and  add  to  the  milk. 
Then  add  the  melted  chocolate  and  stir  till  cooked  to 
a  cream.  Beat  up  the  white  of  the  egg  very  stiff  and 
beat  well  into  the  mixture. 

BROWN   SUGAR   CARAMEL   FILLING— No.  1 

To  two  cups  brown  sugar  add  water  enough  to  dis- 
solve freely  or  about  three-quarters  cup  of  water  and  a 
heaping  teaspoon  of  butter.  Boil  until  the  syrup  will 
form  a  thread.  Take  from  the  fire  and  beat  until 
creamy  enough  to  spread  without  running.  Chopped 
nuts  may  be  added,  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

147 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

CARAMEL  FILLING— No.  2 
MATERIALS : 

2    cups  brown  sugar  2  eggs 

y^  cup  milk  Vanilla 

PREPARATION : 

Dissolve  the  sugar  with  the  milk.  Boil  slowly  until 
the  syrup  dropped  into  ice  water  will  crack.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately  until  very  stiff. 
Then  combine  them.  Gradually  pour  over  them  the  hot 
syrup,  beating  all  the  time.  Add  the  flavoring  and 
beat  until  cool  and  thick. 

CARAMEL  FILLING— No.  3 
MATERIALS : 

V/z  cups  brown  sugar  4  level  teaspoons  butter 

^     cup  sweet  milk 

PREPARATION : 

Cook  the  sugar  and  milk  until  the  syrup  will  form 
a  soft  ball  in  ice  water.  Add  the  butter.  Stir  until  firm 
enough  to  spread.  Do  not  cook  too  long  or  it  will  be- 
come hardened  when  spread. 

SOUR  CREAM  ICING 
MATERIALS : 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  cup  nut  meats 

1  cup  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Cook  the  cream  and  sugar  until  a  soft  ball  may  be 
formed.  Add  the  chopped  nut  meats  and  beat  until 
ready  to  spread. 

COCOA   MOCHA   FILLING 
MATERIALS : 

V/i.  cups  confectioners  3  level  tablespoons  cocoa 

sugar  6  drops  vanilla 

1       egg  white  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 


6      level  tablespoons 
butter 


148 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION: 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly,  add  the 
cocoa  and  continue  to  cream.  Whip  up  the  egg  white 
with  the  lemon  juice  and  beat  into  the  creamed  butter 
and  sugar.    Add  vanilla. 

SOUR  CREAM  FILLING 
MATERIALS : 

4  Ggg  yolks  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

PREPARATION: 

Cook  the  cream,  flour,  sugar  and  egg  yolks  together 
until  thick,  then  add  the  nuts. 

MERINGUE   ICING 
MATERIALS : 

V/2  cups  granulated  sugar    2     level  tablespoons  granu- 
%     cup  water  lated  sugar 

3      egg  whites  y^  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
PREPARATION : 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  first  portion  of  sugar  and  the 
water.  Cook  until  dropped  from  a  spoon  into  ice 
water  it  will  form  a  crystal  rope  brittle  enough  to 
crack. 

Whip  two  egg  whites  until  stiff,  then  whip  in  the 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  immediately  whip  in  the 
CALUMET  Baking  Powder. 

When  the  syrup  is  ready,  pour  slowly  over  the 
meringue,  whipping  up  lightly.  When  stiff  and  cool- 
ing, drop  in  the  extra  unbeaten  white  and  continue 
beating  till  right  consistency  to  spread. 

If  this  icing  is  made  on  a  bright  sunny  day,  all  of 
the  extra  egg  white  will  be  required,  but  in  damp,  heavy 
weather  about  one-half  only  may  be  required. 

This  icing  can  be  used  for  cake  decoration,  forming 
beautifully  into  flowers,  leaves,  etc. 

149 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 
MATERIALS : 

2^  cups  powdered  sugar      Hot  water  or  hot  clear  coffee 
2      squares  melted  choco-  to  dissolve 

late    or    ^    cup    of 
cocoa 
PREPARATION : 

Place  the  sugar  in  a  quart  bowl  or  cup.  Pour  just 
sufficient  hot  coffee  or  water  to  dissolve.  Beat  in  the 
melted  chocolate,  adding  more  water  or  coffee  until  of 
right  consistency  to  spread. 

FONDANT 

Few  housewives  know  the  value  of  the  fondant. 
This  is  one  of  the  many  "short  cuts"  with  which  I  ad- 
vise the  busy  housewife  to  fortify  against  the  unex- 
pected, and  to  reduce  kitchen  work  to  a  minimum. 

Let  me  counsel  the  beginner  not  to  be  discouraged 
if  the  fondant  is  not  just  right  the  first  time  or  two.  No 
matter  how  explicit  the  instructions  may  be,  atmos- 
pheric conditions  and  the  utensils  used  may  operate 
against  success.  A  certain  amount  of  judgment,  or  per- 
haps instinct  is  the  correct  name  for  that  quality  which 
is  necessary  for  success,  must  enter  into  the  work. 

The  recipe  for  fondant  may  be  increased  to  enable 
the  cook  to  have  a  supply  on  hand  for  emergencies. 
There  is  a  point  in  the  boiling  beyond  which  you  may 
not  go.  If  you  see,  after  cooling  and  kneading  as  per 
instructions,  that  it  is  not  just  right,  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan and  add  water  and  boil  again.  You  will  get  to 
know  after  one  or  two  trials  just  what  the  consistency 
must  be.  One  more  word  of  advice,  use  an  aluminum 
saucepan,  if  possible,  as  the  heat  is  more  evenly  dis- 
tributed than  in  a  granite  pan. 

This  fondant  is  in  general  use  as  the  cream  for  choco- 
late and  other  candies,  as  well  as  for  icing. 

150 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

FONDANT  ICING 

MATERIALS: 

1    pound  sugar  XXXX  confectioners  sugar 

Yz  cup  water  1  tablespoon  boiling  water 

PREPARATION: 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  will  spin 
a  heavy  thread  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Care- 
fully pour  the  syrup  out  on  a  large  platter.  When 
cool  enough  to  bear  your  finger  in  it,  stir  the  mixture 
rapidly  until  it  is  soft,  white  and  creamy.  Dust  your 
bread  board  with  XXXX  sugar,  turn  the  mixture  on 
it  and  knead  it  as  you  would  biscuit  dough  until  it  is 
very  soft  and  smooth.  Let  it  cool,  place  in  your  double 
boiler  and  melt,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Add  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water,  flavor  to  taste 
and  pour  over  the  cake  while  hot. 


CHERRY  ICING 

Allow  four  tablespoons  of  cherry  juice  to  one  cup 
of  granulated  sugar,  cooking  together  until  the  syrup 
threads.  Beat  this  into  the  stiffly  whipped  white  of 
an  egg. 


PINEAPPLE  CAKE  FILLING 
(Also  for  Tarts) 

MATERIALS: 

Yz  can  shredded  pineapple  1  tablespoon  butter 

^  cup  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

3    tablespoons  flour  2  egg  whites 
Yi  cup  cream 

151 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  together  one-half  can  shredded  pineapple  or  its 
equivalent  in  fresh  fruit,  three-fourths  cup  sugar  into 
which  two  level  tablespoons  of  flour  have  been  mixed, 
one-half  cup  cream,  one  level  tablespoon  butter,  and 
yolks  of  three  eggs  lightly  beaten.  Put  this  mixture 
into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  When  cooked 
add  the  very  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat 
well.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool  or  partially  so,  before 
spreading  on  cake. 


162 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


BAKING   POWDER   BREADS 

MARIAN'S  BREAD  CRUMB  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

MATERIALS : 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  1  or  2  eggs 

2  level  teaspoons  Calumet  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Baking  Powder  2  level  teaspoons  sugar 

3  level  tablespoons  melted 

shortening 

PREPARATION : 

DO  NOT  SOAK  THE  BREAD  CRUMBS.  Break 
the  egg  or  eggs  into  a  bowl  or  quart  cup  and  beat  a  mo- 
ment, add  all  of  the  ingredients  except  the  bread  crumbs, 
and  beat  smooth  with  the  egg  beater.  Then  add  the 
bread  and  enough  water  or  milk  to  thin  to  desired  con- 
sistency. By  the  addition  of  shortening  to  the  batter, 
the  greasing  of  the  griddle  is  avoided,  eliminating  the 
offensive  odor  of  burning  grease. 


DAINTY   DOUGHNUTS 

MATERIALS: 

1       egg  %     level  cup  of  sugar 

5^     cup  milk  1%  level  cups  flour 

ly^  level  teaspoons  Calu-       1      tablespoon  butter  or  oil  in 
met  Baking  Powder  which    the    doughnuts 

are  to  be  fried 

PREPARATION: 

Cooking  oil  in  which  to  fry;  a  wire  basket  with  a 
kettle  in  which  it  fits  is  a  great  convenience. 

Sift  the  flour  and  Calumet  three  times.  Beat  the 
eggs  well  and  add  sugar,  shortening  and  flour  and  mix. 

Enough  more  flour  may  have  to  be  added  to  make 
soft  dough,  only  stiff  enough  to  be  handled. 

153 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

With  the  Calumet  Baking  Powder  you  will  find  that 
the  doughnuts  may  all  be  cut  and  placed  on  the  board 
or  pans  and  all  ready  before  beginning  the  frying.  This 
does  away  with  the  many  steps  between  table  and  range. 

This  recipe  makes  about  three  and  one-half  dozen 
doughnuts. 

KINDERGARTEN    GINGER    BREAD 


MATERIALS : 

4    level  tablespoons  sugar 
4    level  tablespoons 

shortening 
Yz  level  teaspoon  soda 
1     level  teaspoon  ginger 
1     level  teaspoon 

cinnamon 

PREPARATION : 


I  egg 

4  level  tablespoons  molasses 
4  level  tablespoons  milk 
1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
1  level  cup  flour 


Break  the  egg  into  a  quart  cup  or  bowl  and  beat  for 
two  minutes  with  a  rotary  t^^  beater,  then  add  the 
materials,  in  the  order  named  and  beat  thoroughly. 

Drop  into  well  greased  gem  pans  or  into  cake  pans. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

These  are  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

This  recipe  makes  one  dozen  gems. 

BOSTON   BROWN   BREAD 


MATERIALS : 

Yz  cup  whole  wheat  or 
graham  flour 
cup  N.  O.  molasses 

egg 

teaspoon  salt 
cup  of  seedless  raisins 
may  be  added 

PREPAR^^TION: 

Beat  the  ^^'g  and  add  the  molasses,  milk  and  other 
ingredients.    Put  into  well  greased  brown  bread  cans, 


1 


^  cup  corn  meal  (yellow) 
Yz  cup  white  flour 
Ya  cup  sour  milk 
Yi  teaspoon  soda 
1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 
Baking  Powder 


154 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

cover  each  and  place  them  in  shallow  pan  with  about 
one  and  one-half  inch  of  water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  one  and  one-half  hours.  This  recipe  will  make 
one  large  loaf,  or  two  smaller  ones. 

PERFECT  CORN  BREAD 

(Northern) 
MATERIALS : 

1  cup  com  meal  (yellow)     Yz     cup  white  flour 
^  cups  milk  1       egg 

%    tablespoons  melted  1       tablespoon  sugar,  level 

shortening  V/z  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  whip  up  the  ^^% 
in  a  measuring  cup.  Stir  in  the  milk  and  pour  into  the 
other  ingredients.  Add  the  melted  shortening  and  mix 
thoroughly  by  cutting  batter  back  and  forth.  Pour  into 
baking  pan,  brush  the  top  with  melted  shortening  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

This  recipe  will  make  six  large  corn  meal  muffins 
or  corn  bread  sufficient  for  three  or  four  people. 

WAFFLES 
MATERIALS: 

2  cups  flour  V/z  cups  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar  Yt.    teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  oil  2      level  teaspoons  Calumet 

2  eggs  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION: 

Separate  the  eggs,  placing  the  whites  in  a  deep 
quart  bowl,  beat  very  stiff  with  rotary  beater,  then  add 
the  yolks  and  beat  again,  then  add  the  other  materials, 
and  mix  well,  using  the  rotary  beater  as  it  makes  the 
batter  entirely  smooth.  Bake  on  well  greased  hot 
waffle  irons,  pouring  in  about  a  tablespoon  to  each  sec- 
tion of  the  iron. 

Dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  hot. 

155 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

BUTTERMILK    BISCUIT 
MATERIALS : 

2  cups  bread  flour  1  cup  buttermilk 

1     teaspoon  salt  1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

Yz  teaspoon  soda,  level  Baking  Powder 

3  level  tablespoons 

shortening 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  and  one  level 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  in  with  a  fork  or  spatula  one 
rounding  tablespoon  of  shortening.  If  the  buttermilk 
is  not  very  sour  use  proportionately  less  soda.  One  cup 
of  milk,  more  or  less,  according  to  the  kind  of  flour  used, 
will  be  required  for  two  cups  of  flour.  Stir  in  the  milk 
with  the  fork  and  do  not  handle  the  dough  with  the 
hands  until  turned  onto  the  floured  board.  Roll  it  out 
about  one-half  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  medium  sized 
biscuit  cutter. 

Brush  the  tops  with  melted  shortening  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 

This  recipe  will  make  twenty-four  small  or  eighteen 
medium  biscuits. 

DAINTY  MUFFINS 
MATERIALS: 

3  cups  flour  4      level  teaspoons  Calumet 
1  teaspoon  salt  Baking  Powder 

4  tablespoons  melted  2      tablespoons  sugar 

shortening  V/2  cups  milk 

1  €gg 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  dry  materials,  add  the  milk,  into  which  the 
^^'g  beaten  slightly  is  added,  then  the  melted  shorten- 
ing. Mix  thoroughly  and  quickly,  cutting  the  dough 
back  and  forth.  Drop  into  deep  gem  pans.  Brush  the 
top  with  melted  shortening  and  bake  twenty-five  min- 

156 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

utes.  Half  of  this  recipe  may  be  dropped  as  usual  into 
the  gem  pan  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place  to  bake  the 
next  morning. 

This  recipe  makes  one  dozen  muffins. 

One  pan  of  six  muffins  may  be  placed  in  the  re- 
frigerator to  be  baked  and  served  hot  for  a  later  meal. 
Raisins  may  be  added  and  in  their  season,  one  cup  of 
blueberries  will  add  greatly  to  the  muffins. 

BRAN    BREAD 

The  following  recipe  for  a  health  bread  was  pre- 
scribed by  a  physician  for  a  patient  of  sedentary  habit. 
As  a  choice  between  bran  and  drugs,  the  bran  is  per- 
haps the  better  of  the  two. 
MATERIALS : 

3  cups  whole  wheat  flour  Buttermilk  to  make  soft  dough 

3  tablespoons  New  1  cup  bran 

Orleans  molasses  Pinch  of  salt 

1  level  teaspoon  soda  1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
PREPARATION : 

Stir  all  of  the  ingredients  together.  Bake  about 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  This  is 
usually  baked  in  a  Buster  Brown  tin  or  in  a  tea  or  coffee 
can,  that  will  leave  as  little  of  the  surface  exposed  to 
crust  over. 

I  would  prefer  to  make  this  entirely  of  unsifted  gra- 
ham flour,  as  the  amount  of  bran  would  be  about  the 
same.  The  chances  are  that  it  would  be  more  cleanly 
than  loose  bran  bought  at  a  feed  store. 

COLONIAL    BREAD 
(Whole  Wheat) 
MATERIALS: 

2  cups  whole  wheat  flour     1^  cups  sweet  milk 
4^  level  teaspoons  Calu-       1  cup  white  flour 

met  Baking  Powder       1  level  teaspoon  salt 
54  cup  broken  walnut  or        2  level  tablespoons  sugar 
pecan  meats 

157 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  dry  materials,  add  the  milk  and  mix  with  a 
knife.  Add  the  nut  meats.  Place  in  well  greased  bread 
pans.  Let  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  one  hour. 

When  in  the  oven  half  the  time,  one-half  hour,  turn 
the  pan  over.  Currants,  raisins  or  dates  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  nut  meats. 

TWIN  BISCUIT 

MATERIALS : 

2  cups  flour  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

3  level  teaspoons  Calumet    4  level  tablespoons  lard  or 

Baking  Powder  butterine 

Y/[  cup  milk,  more  or  less 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  Calumet  and  salt  three  or  four  times. 
Work  in  the  shortening  with  a  spatula  or  fork.  Then 
make  a  soft  dough  with  the  milk. 

This  recipe  makes  eighteen  twin  biscuit  cut  with 
medium  cutter. 

Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick.  Brush  generously  with 
some  melted  shortening.  Fold  over  and  run  the  rolling 
pin  over  the  dough  or  pat  lightly  together.  Cut  out 
with  a  fluted  cooky  cutter. 

Brush  tops  with  milk. 

Bake  ten  minutes  in  medium  hot  oven.  These  may 
be  prepared  some  hours  before  baking,  placed  in  the 
pans  and  kept  in  cool  place  until  ready  to  take  place  at 
table  when  they  may  be  put  into  the  oven. 

In  this  way  the  biscuit  may  be  served  piping  hot 
after  the  preliminary  or  first  course  is  disposed  of. 

Twin  biscuit  are  just  the  thing  for  individual  straw- 
berry shortcakes,  also  for  serving  with  chicken  fricasee, 
family  style. 

158 


THE       CALUMET 

COOK       BOOK 

DUTCH   APPLE   BREAD 

(American  Style) 
MATERIALS : 

2  cups  flour 
1  egg 

3  level  teaspoons  Calumet 

Baking  Powder 
5  tart  apples 
Cinnamon  and  sugar 

1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  heaping  tablespoon 

or  lard 

butter 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  all  of  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  egg  in 
measuring  cup  and  add  the  milk.  Work  the  shortening 
into  the  flour.  Make  a  soft  dough  with  the  egg  and 
milk. 

Roll  out  to  half  an  inch  thick  and  put  into  pan. 
Brush  the  top  with  shortening.  Core,  peel  and  slice  the 
apples,  cut  slices  into  halves  and  press  them  overlapping 
into  the  top  of  the  dough. 

Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar  and  dot  with  but- 
ter.   Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

MATERIALS : 

2  cups  flour  ^  cup  milk  (more  or  less) 

3  level  teaspoons  Calumet     4  level  tablespoons  lard  or 

Baking  Powder  butterine 

1  level  teaspoon  salt 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  Calumet  and  salt  three  or  four  times. 
Work  in  the  shortening  with  a  spatula  or  fork.  Then 
make  a  soft  dough  with  the  milk. 

Roll  out  half  of  the  dough  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick.  Fit  it  to  a  large  pie  pan.  Brush  over  the  top  with 
melted  shortening.  Roll  out  the  second  half  the  same 
and  place  on  the  first  half. 

Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

159 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Slip  the  shortcake  when  baked  onto  a  large  chop 
plate  or  platter.  With  a  long  knife  turn  the  upper  half 
onto  the  pan.  Butter  and  heap  with  sweetened  fruit, 
then  place  upper  half  over  the  fruit  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar. 

CALUMET   DUMPLINGS 

(To  Steam) 

MATERIALS: 

1     cup  sifted  flour  1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 

y^  level  teaspoon  salt  Baking  Powder 

Yi  cup  sweet  milk 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  Calumet  very  thoroughly. 
Add  the  milk  a  little  at  a  time  to  make  the  dough  the 
consistency  of  biscuit  dough.  These  may  be  steamed 
over  hot  water  or  dropped  into  the  soup  or  stew  as  pre- 
ferred. 

Take  the  dough  up  on  a  teaspoon  which  has  been 
in  cold  water. 

Do  not  allow  the  soup  to  boil  at  a  gallop  after  drop- 
ping in  the  dumplings  as  the  agitation  of  the  boiling 
would  cause  them  to  separate.  Keep  the  kettle  covered 
while  cooking  the  dumplings.  When  cooked  remove  at 
once  to  hot  tureen. 

BLUEBERRY   MUFFINS 

For  Blueberry  Muffins  use  recipe  for  either  "Quick 
Puff"  or  "Dainty  Muffins,"  and  add  one  cup  of  selected 
large  blueberries. 

CHERRY  MUFFINS 

Use  recipe  for  "Tea  Muffins,"  and  add  one  cup  of 
stoned  cherries. 

160 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

DATE  MUFFINS 

Use  recipe  for  "Tea  Muffins,"  add,  just  before  put- 
ting in  the  pans,  one-half  pound  stoned  dates  cut  into 
pieces. 

BACON  MUFFINS 

Use  recipe  for  "Dainty  Muffins,"  and  add  one  cup  of 
diced  bacon  which  has  been  crisped,  before  dropping 
batter  into  gem  pans. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  POCKET-BOOK  ROLLS 

MATERIALS : 

1%  cups  whole  wheat  flour  1  rounding  tablespoon 
1     cup  milk  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  level  teaspoons  Calumet 
%  cup  white  flour  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together, 
work  in  the  shortening  with  a  fork,  then  add  enough 
milk  to  make  dough  to  roll  out.  Roll  one-half  inch 
thick  and  cut  in  rounds  with  a  large  biscuit  cutter. 

Press  a  knife  handle  across  each  through  the  center, 
brush  with  the  egg  mixture  and  fold  over,  then  brush 
the  tops.  Do  not  crowd  into  the  pan.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  twenty  minutes. 

MAPLE  ROLLS 

MATERIALS: 

2  cups  flour  3    level  teaspoons  Calumet 
1  cup  milk  or  less  Baking  Powder 

1  tablespoon  shortening  1     teaspoon  salt 

(rounded)  %  pound  maple  sugar 

PREPARATION: 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Work  in  the 
shortening  with  a  fork  or  spatula  and  make  a  dough 
with  the  milk.     Roll  out  as  square  as  possible  and 

161 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

sprinkle  with  the  maple  sugar.  Brush  the  further  end 
with  water  and  roll  the  pastry  from  you  in  a  firm  roll. 
Brush  with  melted  shortening. 

Cut  off  in  half-inch  slices,  place  in  greased  and 
floured  pan  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

To  prevent  the  syrup  formed  by  the  sugar  from 
cooking  onto  the  pan,  the  recipe  for  pastry  may  be  in- 
creased one-third.  Roll  out  one-third  of  the  pastry  very 
thin  and  cut  rounds  from  it  to  cover  bottom  of  pan. 
Then  place  each  slice  of  the  roll  on  a  round.  This  looks 
fussy,  but  conserves  all  of  the  goodness  as  well  as  time 
and  energy  in  cleaning  baking  pan. 

QUICK   CURRANT   ROLLS 
(Very  fine) 

Make  a  pastry  as  instructed  for  maple  rolls.  Roll 
out  half  inch  thick,  cover  with  cleaned  currants  and  roll 
up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  into  half  inch  slices,  brush  with 
shortening  or  milk.  Bake  fifteen  minutes.  When  taken 
from  the  oven  spread  with  a  thin  mixture  or  powdered 
sugar  and  water. 

The  small  seedless  raisins  are  preferred  by  many 
instead  of  the  currants. 

QUICK  SWEDISH  TEA  ROLL 
MATERIALS : 

3      cups  flour  2      level  teaspoons  salt 

1%  cups  milk  4      level  tablespoons  lard 

454  level  teaspoons  Calu-       1^  cups  chopped  nut  meats 
met  Baking  Powder       Sugar 
PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  Calumet  four  times.  Work 
in  the  lard  with  a  spatula  or  fork  as  for  biscuit. 
Beat  the  egg  very  light  and  stir  into  the  milk.  Stir  this 
into  the  flour.  Roll  out  half  inch  thick,  rolling  in  long 
strip.  Brush  with  melted  shortening  and  sprinkle 
with  nut  meats. 

Roll  compactly,  bringing  the  ends  together.  Place 
on  biscuit  pan,  forming  a  circle.    With  a  pair  of  shears 

162 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

cut  slashes  one  inch  apart  as  for  slices,  cutting  half  way 
through.  Sprinkle  with  confectioners  sugar  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

QUICK   CINNAMON   ROLLS 

Make  pastry  as  for  Maple  Rolls.  Sprinkle  the  pastry 
with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon  in  place  of  the  maple 
sugar. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  ROLLS 

Make  pastry  as  for  Maple  Rolls.  Roll  out  one- 
half  inch  thick.  Spread  liberally  with  soft  butter  or 
margarine.  Sprinkle  over  this  one  and  one-half  cups 
brown  sugar  and  a  generous  dash  of  cinnamon. 

Moisten  the  further  side  with  milk  or  water.  Roll 
into  compact  roll.  Brush  the  roll  with  melted  shorten- 
ing. Cut  off  slice  one  inch  thick.  Place  them  together 
in  small  well  greased  pans,  a  shallow  loaf  tin  holding 
six  slices  being  preferable.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes,  beginning  with  a  low  oven  so  as  to 
enable  sugar  to  melt.  Do  not  allow  to  burn  around  the 
bottom. 

When  baked  turn  immediately  over  on  to  a  plate 
to  allow  them  to  come  out  like  a  loaf. 

QUICK  PUFF 
MATERIALS: 

154  cups  flour  2    level  teaspoons  Calumet 

1      cup  milk  Baking  Powder 

1      tablespoon  melted  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

shortening  2    eggs 
1       tablespoon  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  white  of  the  eggs  stiff  with  a  rotary  egg 
beater,  add  the  yolks  and  beat  again,  add  about  half 
the  flour  and  the  milk  and  beat  smooth.  Add  the  bal- 
ance of  the  flour  in  which  the  sugar,  salt  and  baking 
powder  have  been  sifted.  Drop  into  well  greased  gem 
pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

163 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

POPOVERS 

MATERIALS : 

3  eggs  2  cups  milk 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

PREPARATION: 

Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  add  the 
yolks  and  the  milk.  Sift  the  fiour  and  salt  together  and 
then  add  the  liquid,  gradually  beating  it  with  the  beater. 
Have  your  gem  pans  well  greased  and  hot,  fill  each  half 
full.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour.  Do 
not  bake  too  quickly  or  they  cannot  rise  sufficiently. 

SCOTCH  SCONES 

MATERIALS : 

2    cups  flour  1  level  teaspoon  Calumet 
Yz  cup  dried  currants  Baking  Powder 

1     cup  sour  cream  or  1  teaspoon  salt 

buttermilk  1  teaspoon  lard  (rounded) 
Yz  teaspoon  soda 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  soda  and  baking  powder.  Work 
in  the  lard  with  a  fork.  Make  a  soft  dough  with  the 
sour  cream  and  add  the  cleaned  currants. 

Divide  into  four  or  six  parts  and  form  large  biscuit 
shapes.  Press  a  knife  handle  each  way  across  each 
scone. 

Brush  with  a  mixture  of  egg  yolks  and  water.  Dust 
with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

DAINTY    CORN    BREAD 
(Custard  Corn  Bread) 
MATERIALS: 

1  cup  milk  1     cup  corn  meal 

1  cup  white  flour  1     pint  milk 

2  level  teaspoons  Calumet      ^  teaspoon  salt 

Baking  Powder  1     tablespoon  melted 

1  teaspoon  sugar  shortening 

2  eggs 

164 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  cornmeal,  salt,  baking  powder  and 
sugar.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  add  them  to  the  pint  of 
milk.  Stir  the  milk  with  the  shortening  into  the  flour. 
Then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white. 

Butter  a  bread  pan  well  and  pour  in  the  batter  about 
two  inches  thick.  Lastly  pour  the  cup  of  milk  into  the 
center  carefully  without  stirring. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes.  The 
center  will  be  soft. 

HOME-MADE  SELF-RISING  PANCAKE  FLOUR 

MATERIALS: 

3  cups  whole  wheat  flour      3  level  tablespoons  sugar 
2  cups  white  flour  3  level  tablespoons  Calumet 

1  cup  corn  meal  Baking  Powder 

1  level  tablespoon  salt 

PREPARATION: 

Mix  and  sift  all  of  these  materials  half  a  dozen  times. 
Put  into  Mason  jars  with  close  tops. 

When  wanted  for  use  mix  to  the  desired  consistency 
with  milk  or  water.  To  avoid  the  odor  of  a  smoking 
pancake  griddle  beat  into  the  batter  two  level  table- 
spoons of  soft  or  melted  shortening  to  each  cup  of  flour 
mixture  when  ready  to  bake  the  cakes.  No  grease  will 
be  required  on  the  griddle. 

If  desired  one  or  two  eggs  may  be  added. 

HOME-MADE   SELF-RISING  BUCKWHEAT 
GRIDDLE  CAKE  FLOUR 
MATERIALS : 

6  cups  Buckwheat  flour         3  level  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  white  flour  3  level  tablespoons  Calumet 
1  level  tablespoon  salt  Baking  Powder 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  materials  half  a  dozen  times  to  insure 
thorough  mixing.    Place  in  fruit  jars  with  tight  covers. 

165 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

When  ready  to  make  pancakes  take  what  may  be  re- 
quired and  mix  with  milk  or  milk  and  water. 

For  every  cup  of  pancake  flour  mix  two  level  table- 
spoons of  soft  or  melted  margarine  or  shortening  into 
the  batter.    Do  not  grease  the  griddle. 

WHOLE   WHEAT   MUFFINS 
MATERIALS : 

1      cup  white  flour  3  level  teaspoons  Calumet 
1%  cups  milk  or  milk  and  Baking  Powder 

water  3  tablespoons  melted 

1  teaspoon  salt  shortening 

2  cups  whole  wheat  2  eggs 

flour 
PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together. 
Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  milk  to  them  and  pour  into 
the  flour,  add  the  melted  shortening  and  stir  briskly 
back  and  forth.  Drop  into  deep  gem  pans,  brush  the 
tops  with  shortening  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty-five  minutes. 

GRAHAM    GEMS 

Proceed  the  same  as  for  whole  wheat  muffins,  using 
a  trifle  more  of  graham  flour,  and  be  sure  to  sift  the  flour 
to  take  the  coarse  bran  from  it. 

GINGER   BREAD 
MATERIALS: 

2    cups  flour  1     teaspoon  nutmeg 

^  cup  butter  or  shorten-       1     teaspoon  cinnamon 

ing  %  teaspoon  soda 

Yz  cup  molasses  1     teaspoon  Calumet  Baking 

%  cup  sugar  Powder 

^  cup  hot  water  2    eggs 

2    teaspoons  ginger 
PREPARATION : 

Put  the  molasses,  shortening,  sugar,  hot  water  and 
spices  into  a  saucepan  and  allow  to  boil  up.  Cool. 
Then  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  balance  of  ingre- 
dients.   Bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

166 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


YEAST   BREADS 

In  the  development  of  yeast  SUGAR  is  the  SPUR, 
SALT  the  BRIDLE. 

Necessary  conditions  for  the  propagation  of  the 
yeast    germ    are   warmth    and    moisture — product    is 

CO2  +CaH60. 

The  yeast  plant  thrives  on  sugar  and  starch  which 
is  in  the  flour.  As  it  develops  the  process  produces 
alcohol  and  a  lactic  acid — later  on  another  change  pro- 
duces acetic  fermentation  due  to  bacteria  and  known  as 
souring.  A  tiny  bit  of  soda  may  be  used  to  overcome 
this  tendency.  But  the  formation  of  acetic  acid  must 
be  regarded  as  an  accident  due  to  carelessness.  How- 
ever, the  tiny  bit  of  soda  will  do  no  harm. 

DISEASES  OF  BREAD 

Care  must  be  taken  to  insure  against  the  formation 
of  foreign  bacteria  by  a  sanitary  cleanliness  of  vessels 
and  coverings  with  which  doughs  are  surrounded.  The 
conditions  that  will  spoil  jellies  and  preserves  and  cause 
them  to  mould  will  produce  dangerous  conditions  in 
bread  and  flours.  Such  conditions  are  induced  by  dark 
and  damp  storage  places.  It  was  the  experience  of  one 
very  particular  housekeeper  that  moving  from  a  sixth 
floor  apartment  to  a  house  with  cellar  cupboards  in 
which  she  stored  her  jellies  that  the  jellies  which  had 
kept  perfectly  for  a  year  in  the  apartment  were,  inside 
of  eight  weeks,  covered  with  green  mould.  The  cellar 
and  cupboards  were  apparently  clean  but  not  sanitarily 
clean.  When  once  the  bread  utensils  are  infected  only 
a  thorough  overhauling  will  eradicate  the  fungus.  The 
common  disease  from  fungus  growth  develops  first  in 
the  center  of  the  loaf,  the  growth  (mycelium)  permeat- 
ing the  entire  loaf,  causing  a  stringy,  pasty  condition. 

167 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

COMPRESSED  YEAST  is  skimmed  from  fer- 
mented rye  mixed  with  starch  and  pressed.  Each  cake 
of  compressed  yeast  contains  fifty  billion  yeast  cells. 

Present  day  conditions  make  it  unnecessary  for  the 
housewife  to  use  home-made  yeast  as  the  compressed 
yeast  is  as  rapid  as  the  best  home-made  soft  yeast  and 
far  more  dependable. 

The  dry  yeasts  found  in  the  market  are  scientifically 
prepared  and  as  economical  as  those  made  at  home. 

The  manufactured  yeasts  are  standardized  as  to 
amount  of  leavening. 

The  home-made  yeasts  cannot  be  standardized. 

One  of  the  frequent  faults  in  bread  making  is  the 
use  of  too  much  yeast. 

In  making  rolls,  rusks  or  buns  in  which  eggs  and 
shortening  are  used,  start  the  dough  with  a  sponge. 

The  grain  will  be  finer  and  the  bread  whiter  if  well 
kneaded,  due  to  the  aeration  or  bringing  in  of  oxygen 
to  the  dough.  The  sponge  or  doughs  should  be  set 
away  in  a  warm  (75  degrees  Fahr.)  moist  place  until 
leavened  to  double  their  bulk. 

In  the  absence  of  the  proof-box  as  used  by  bakers  for 
bread  raising,  a  good  substitute  may  be  had  in  the  oven 
of  the  gas  range,  by  placing  a  dish  of  hot  water  under 
the  lower  shelf  or  rack  of  the  oven.  Understand,  the 
oven  is  not  to  be  heated  or  lighted.  A  cupboard  is  very 
easily  arranged  with  open  or  slatted  shelves  for  this 
purpose  where  no  gas  range  is  in  use. 

A  great  many  housewives  now  make  use  of  the  fire- 
less  cookers  for  setting  the  sponge  and  dough  to  rise, 
but  for  pans  of  bread  or  rolls  there  is  nothing  quite 
equal  to  the  proofing  cupboard,  as  it  insures  against 
drafts  and  does  away  with  the  covering  of  the  pans. 

A  large  crock  or  jar  is  to  be  preferred  for  the  setting 
of  sponges  or  doughs  as  the  stoneware  is  not  susceptible 
to  varyiucg  temperature. 

168 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

If  fresh  mashed  potatoes  are  not  at  hand  or  con- 
venient, one-half  cup  flour,  scalded  may  be  used.  In 
either  case  the  cooked  starch  supplies  the  proper  food 
and  conditions  to  promote  the  rapid  development  of 
the  yeast  plant. 

Make  this  the  basis  of  all  yeast  doughs,  whether 
recipes  call  for  it  or  not.  Less  yeast  is  required  and  a 
much  better  bread  or  roll  is  the  result. 

Knead  yeast  dough  until  it  is  full  of  small  bubbles, 
discernible  by  blisters  over  the  surface  of  the  dough. 

Set  to  rise  in  warm,  steamy  atmosphere  until  doubled 
in  bulk.  Roll  dough  should  not  be  mixed  as  stiff  as 
bread  dough. 

Sponges  must  not  be  allowed  to  stand  too  long. 

The  sponge  is  ready  to  mix  when  bubbles  gather  on 
the  surface  and  break  occasionally. 

THREE   MINUTE  YEAST   FORMULA 

This  is  something  new  and  is  used  by  some  of  the 
better"  class  chefs  and  bakers. 

MATERIALS: 

3  tablespoons  of  flour — pour  in  a  teacup  of  boiling 
water.  Cool  to  120  degrees  Fahr.  Add  1  teaspoon 
Malt  extract  and  ^  cake  dry  yeast. 

PREPARATION: 

Whip  for  one  minute  with  a  rotary  egg  beater,  cover 
and  place  where  warm  till  night,  then  set  bread  with  it. 

FOUR  HOUR  OR  LIGHTNING  BREAD 

Use  the  same  formula  as  for  plain  "White  Bread," 
with  two  cakes  of  yeast  instead  of  one. 

Mashed  potatoes  will  hasten  the  process  also. 

169 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


HEALTH   BREADS 
(Coarse  Flour  Breads) 

As  to  the  wholesomeness  of  health  breads,  author- 
ities differ.  Many  years  ago  health  faddists  made 
strong  claims  for  the  graham  and  other  coarse  flours, 
condemning  the  white  and  patent  flours  as  some  of  the 
breakfast  food  companies  are  still  doing. 

Graham  flour  has  for  its  principal  quality  the  outer 
covering  of  the  wheat  kernel  and  is  too  often  an  inferior 
flour  mixed  with  coarse  bran.  People  of  sedentary 
habits  and  sluggish  digestive  action  found  that  it  had  a 
direct  effect  upon  the  lower  intestine.  That  this  effect 
is  ultimately  good  is  a  question,  as  the  effect  is  brought 
about  by  the  irritation  of  the  bran  in  the  digestive 
channels,  causing  increased  peristaltic  action.  This  ex- 
traordinary peristaltic  action  may  have  the  effect  of 
hurrying  along  accompanying  foods,  preventing  their 
absorption  into  the  system,  and  carrying  them  off  as 
waste. 

Whole  wheat  flour  is  free  from  this  objectionable 
feature  of  the  graham  and  contains  more  of  the  phos- 
phates and  germ  of  wheat  than  the  patent  flours.  Made 
up  with  nuts  and  eaten  with  butter  it  forms  an  approxi- 
mately complete  food.  Many  persons  are  found  today 
using  the  same  arguments  against  patent  flour  that 
were  used  when  winter  wheat  was  the  only  white  bread 
flour  milled. 

Those  objections  do  not  obtain  against  the  bread 
flour  of  today.  We  have  in  the  Northern  spring  wheat 
flours  all  of  the  best  food  properties  contained  in  cereals. 

Yeast  in  the  process  of  fermentation  breaks  down 
starch  cells  and  destroys  to  a  very  small  degree  some  of 
the  nutriment  of  flour.  So,  also,  do  the  bleaching 
processes  which  have  been  and  are  the  subject  of  much 
discussion  and  litigation. 

170 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

From  time  immemorial  it  has  been  one  long  effort  on 
the  part  of  generations  of  housewives  and  caterers  to 
provide  the  whitest  bread  possible.  That  they  will 
now  indorse  the  unbleached  durum  flour  without  a 
strong  campaign  of  education  is  not  to  be  thought  of. 

Durum  wheat  undoubtedly  contains  more  nutritive 
elements  than  other  wheat,  but  if  digestive  habit  pre- 
vents its  complete  absorption  into  the  system  it  ceases 
to  be  of  nutritive  value.  Unless  durum  flour  is  manipu- 
lated in  the  latest  bread  machines  which  aerate  as  well 
as  mix  dough,  it  is  not  as  satisfactory  a  bread  flour  as 
its  nutritive  elements  would  warrant,  as  it  is  so  rich  in 
gluten  as  to  be  dense  in  texture  when  made  into  bread. 
Without  the  machines  spoken  of  some  measure  of  suc- 
cess can  be  obtained  in  its  manipulation  by  using  po- 
tatoes with  the  yeast  to  start  the  bread. 

The  yeast  plant  derives  its  best  nourishment  from 
starch  and  the  potatoes  supply  the  starch  that  this 
strong  gluten  flour  is  deficient  in.  In  the  average  fam- 
ily there  is  always  a  demand  for  well  baked  yeast 
breads.  The  claim  that  baking  powder  breads  are  more 
wholesome  than  yeast  breads  holds  good  in  the  use  of 
a  phosphate  baking  powder  which  in  a  measure  restores 
some  of  the  phosphates  which  are  lost  to  flour  by  the 
modern  milling  process. 

BAKING   BREAD 

Do  not  hurry  the  baking  of  breads.  Flour  is  largely 
starch  and  nature  has  made  the  digestion  of 
raw  or  uncooked  starch  difficult.  The  oven  heat 
should  be  moderate  to  begin  the  baking.  It  is  neces- 
sary for  the  heat  to  penetrate  the  loaf  before  forming  a 
crust.  It  is  also  well  to  know  that  if  the  loaf  of  yeast 
bread  is  not  thoroughly  cooked  in  the  center  so  that  the 
yeast  germ  is  killed,  that  given  the  warmth  and  moist- 

171 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

ure  of  the  stomach  it  will  resume  its  work  of  fermenta- 
tion sometimes  causing  serious  digestive  inconvenience. 

Place  bread  in  moderate  oven,  (280  degrees  Fahr.) 
increasing  the  heat  after  the  first  fifteen  minutes  and 
decreasing  it  the  last  fifteen  minutes  baking,  in  all  about 
forty-five  minutes. 

Remove  immediately  from  the  pans  when  baked. 
Allow  it  to  cool  before  placing  in  bread  cabinet. 

WHITE   BREAD 

(With  Compressed  Yeast) 
MATERIALS: 

3  quarts  flour  (wanned  Pinch  of  soda 

and  sifted  1  pint  milk 

1  pint  boiling  water  1  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  J4 
1  tablespoon  salt  cup  water 

1  heaping  tablespoon  lard  2  tablespoons  sugar 

or  butterine 

PREPARATICXN : 

Pour  the  boiling  water  into  the  milk  and  add  the 
sugar  and  one-third  of  the  flour.  By  the  time  the  flour 
is  well  beaten  in  the  temperature  will  be  right  for  the 
dissolved  yeast.  Add  it  and  beat  well,  set  in  warm  place 
for  half  an  hour,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour 
with  the  soda,  shortening  and  salt.  Knead  stiff  and  set 
away  till  doubled  in  bulk. 

It  may  be  kneaded  once  more  before  forming  into 
loaves.  There  is  a  little  more  satisfaction  in  individual 
loaves  rather  than  in  several  loaves  baked  in  one  pan. 

This  recipe  makes  four  or  five  loaves. 

If  one  cup  of  flour  is  scalded  and  added  to  the  sponge 
the  bread  will  be  ready  for  the  oven  in  less  time. 
Mashed  potato  has  the  same  effect. 

172 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

HEALTH   BREAD 
(With  Dates  and  Nuts) 

MATERIALS : 

1     cup  warm  wheat  or  J4  cup  lukewarm  water 

oatmeal  mush  ^  cup  walnut  meats 

54  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  dates,   stoned  and 
5^2  teaspoon  salt  cut  small 

1  tablespoon  shortening  Flour  to  knead 
^  cake  dry  yeast 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  mush,  sugar,  salt  and  shortening  and  dis- 
solved yeast.  Let  stand  one  hour  then  knead  stiff  with 
the  flour,  whole  wheat  or  white.  Let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  add  the  dates  and  nuts  and  mold  into 
loaves.  Let  stand  in  warm  steaming  place  to  double 
in  bulk.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ENTIRE   WHEAT   BREAD 

MATERIALS: 

4^  cups  entire  wheat  flour    1    teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  hot  milk  or  54  cup  lukewarm  water 

water  1     cake  compressed  yeast 

5      tablespoons  molasses 

PREPARATION : 

Make  a  well  in  the  center  of  the  whole  wheat  flour 
and  pour  in  the  scalding  milk  or  water,  stirring  in  very 
little  of  the  flour.  When  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast, 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  one-quarter  cup  of 
water,  and  the  other  materials.  Beat  well,  cover  to  rise 
to  double  its  bulk.  Beat  again,  turn  into  well  greased 
bread  pans  and  let  rise  again  to  not  quite  double  its 
bulk. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

173 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 
NORWEGIAN   RYE   BREAD 

MATERIALS : 

1  cake  yeast  1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cups  rye  flour  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  cups  graham  flour  3  medium  boiled  and  mashed 

1  cup  molasses  potatoes 

PREPARATION : 

Sift  the  flours,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Pour  and 
beat  in  well  as  much  hot  water  as  the  flour  will  take  up, 
making  a  stiff  batter.  Add  the  mashed  potatoes  and 
molasses,  allow  to  cool  to  temperate  heat  and  add  the 
yeast  cake.    Let  stand  over  night. 

In  the  morning  add  one  cup  of  milk  or  water  and 
enough  white  flour  to  make  it  right  consistency. 

Let  stand  till  double  its  bulk.  Shape  into  loaves,  let 
rise  and  then  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  and  one-quarter 
hours. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS 
(Emergency  Bread) 

The  origin  of  the  English  muffin  dates  back  to  the 
period  before  the  advent  into  the  home  of  ovens  or  con- 
venient baking  appliances  as  we  now  have. 

The  open  fireplace  furnished  the  only  cooking  con- 
venience in  most  houses.  In  fact  a  generation  or  two 
ago  very  few  had  the  brick  ovens  which  were  unwieldy 
at  best  for  a  small  baking,  and  the  custom  was  to  carry 
the  breads  to  the  baker's  to  have  them  baked. 

Therefore  the  muffin  which  could  be  put  over  the 
fireplace  to  bake  was  quite  a  common  article. 

They  are  baked  in  rings  about  four  and  one-half 
inches  in  diameter  and  one  inch  deep.  The  rings  are 
greased  and  placed  on  a  pancake  griddle  or  in  an  iron 
frying  pan. 

174 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

No  special  recipe  is  necessary.  A  very  light  bread 
batter  is  used,  that  is,  a  yeast  bread  batter,  or  soft 
dough.  If  the  dough  or  batter  has  been  disturbed  so 
as  to  lose  some  of  its  lightness,  allow  the  pan  to  set 
awhile  before  baking. 

They  may  be  baked  in  the  pan  over  a  low  blaze, 
covering  the  pan  and  turning  the  rings  when  baked 
half  through,  or  they  may  be  put  into  the  oven  and 
baked.    Time  required  about  twenty  minutes. 

TOASTED    ENGLISH    MUFFINS 

While  the  muffins  are  still  warm  they  are  split  open 
and  toasted. 

SALT-RISING    BREAD 

The  leavening  for  salt-rising  bread  is  established  by 
a  process  of  fermentation  which  is  set  up  in  the  flour 
and  water  or  flour  and  milk.  Bacteria  play  an  important 
part  in  this  process  and  the  yeast  plants  of  the  air  or  wild 
yeast  find  the  batter  a  good  medium  for  development. 

It  has  been  established,  too,  that  in  a  surgically 
clean  room  it  is  almost  impossible  to  produce  the  neces- 
sary ferment.  The  same  batter  placed  in  a  room  far 
from  clean  will  foam  up  in  a  short  time. 

Salt-rising  bread  requires  more  heat  while  in  the 
process  of  fermentation  and  a  much  longer  time  to  bake, 
than  yeast  breads. 

Stir  two  tablespoons  of  cornmeal  into  a  half  pint  of 
water  that  has  been  heated  to  130  degrees  Fahr.  Add 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  mix  well.  Make  this  in  a 
tall  pitcher,  cover  with  a  dish  and  stand  in  a  bowl.  Sur- 
round this  with  water  at  about  160  degrees  Fahr.  Keep 
over  night  in  a  warm  place. 

Then  warm  one  quart  of  milk  and  to  it  add  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  sufficient  warm  flour  to  make  a  heavy 
batter.     Add  the  emptyings  and   beat  five  minutes. 

175 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Cover  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  about  two  hours. 
Then  add  flour  to  make  a  very  soft  dough.  Knead  till 
smooth  and  elastic.    Divide  into  four  loaves. 

Place  each  in  individual  loaf  pan,  cover  with  a  towel, 
keep  in  warm  place.  When  light  bake  one  hour  in 
moderate  oven. 

BAKING   ROLLS 

Rolls  should  be  placed  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  reducing 
the  heat  after  ten  minutes.  Bake  usually  about  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes. 

Remove  from  pans  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven, 
and  cover  before  they  are  entirely  cooled,  so  as  to  retain 
their  proper  moisture. 

STANDARD    ROLL   DOUGH 

MATERIALS : 

2Y2  cups  water  or  milk  6     cups  flour 

or  both  ^2  cup  shortening 

y^    cup  sugar  1     cake  yeast 

2      eggs  2    mashed  potatoes  or  Yz  cup 
1      tablespoon  salt  flour  scalded 

PREPARATION : 

First  make  a  sponge  with  the  potatoes  or  scalded 
flour  and  the  sugar,  dissolved  yeast  and  enough  of  the 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  If  compressed  yeast  is  used 
the  sponge  will  be  ready  in  half  an  hour. 

Add  to  the  sponge  the  whites  and  one  yolk  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten  together  with  the  melted  shortening, 
salt  and  the  balance  of  the  flour.  Knead  well  about  five 
minutes,  return  to  bowl,  brush  top  with  shortening, 
cover  and  set  in  warm,  steamy  place  until  double  its 
bulk. 

The  dough  may  be  worked  down  again  without  tak- 
ing from  bowl,  or  it  may  then  be  made  into  desired 
form. 

176 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

The  extra  egg  yolk  is  reserved  to  mix  with  one- 
quarter  cup  of  water  or  milk  to  brush  the  tops  of  the 
rolls  before  putting  them  in  the  baking  oven. 

Of  flour  not  rich  in  gluten  more  than  six  cups  may 
be  required,  but  care  must  be  taken  to  have  the  roll 
dough  softer  than  for  bread. 

POPPY   SEED   BRAIDS 

Use  Standard  Roll  Dough  formula. 
PREPARATION: 

When  ready  for  the  pans,  break  off  pieces  of  the 
dough  the  size  of  a  small  egg.  Roll  into  finger  width 
strips,  about  five  inches  in  length.  When  these  are 
ready,  place  together  and  begin  to  braid  from  the  center, 
braid  to  one  end,  then  from  the  center  to  the  other  end. 
Brush  with  shortening  and  place  quite  far  apart  in  shal- 
low tins. 

When  ready  for  the  oven,  brush  with  the  egg  mix- 
ture and  sprinkle  plentifully  with  poppy  seed  and  then 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Bake  according  to  directions  for  baking  rolls. 

PECAN   ROLLS 
MATERIALS : 

Use  Roll  Dough  formula 
PREPARATIOiN: 

Roll  out  a  sheet  of  the  dough  to  one-half  inch  thick- 
ness. Brush  with  melted  shortening  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  pecans.  Roll  up  as  for  currant  rolls,  moisten- 
ing the  further  side  so  that  it  will  adhere  to  the  roll. 
Brush  the  outside  of  the  roll  with  shortening  and  cut 
into  one-half  inch  slices.  Set  each  on  end  in  well 
greased  shallow  pans.  Do  not  crowd  but  allow  to 
touch. 

When  light,  brush  with  egg  mixture  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  chopped  pecans. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

177 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

RAISIN  BUNS 
Make  the  Standard  Roll  dough.  Roll  out  square  as 
possible.  Brush  with  melted  shortening,  sprinkle  with 
seedless  raisins.  Roll  up  tightly  as  for  jelly  roll.  Cut 
into  inch  slices.  Arrange  in  deep,  well  greased  dripping 
pan.  When  nearly  doubled  in  bulk,  place  in  moderate 
oven.    Bake  thirty  minutes. 

SWEDISH  TEA  ROLL 
Make  Standard  Roll  dough.  Roll  out  one-half  inch 
thick,  twice  as  long  as  the  width.  Brush  with  melted 
shortening.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts,  and  roll  in  a 
compact  roll.  Bring  two  ends  together,  and  place  on  a 
greased  pan.  Then  with  a  pair  of  shears  make  incisions 
as  though  for  slices  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  cutting 
half  way  through.  Allow  to  rise.  Bake  thirty  minutes. 
Brush  with  a  mixture  of  confectioners  sugar  and  water. 

APFEL-KUCHEN 
MATERIALS : 

2^  cups  water  or  milk  6     cups  flour 

or  both  Yx  cup  shortening 

34     cup  water  1     cake  yeast 

2       eggs  2     mashed  potatoes  or  "%.  cup 
1       tablespoon  salt  flour  scalded 

PREPARATION: 

First  make  sponge  with  the  potatoes  or  scalded  flour 
and  the  sugar,  dissolved  yeast  and  enough  of  the  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  If  compressed  yeast  is  used  the 
sponge  will  be  ready  in  half  an  hour. 

Add  to  the  sponge  the  whites  and  one  yolk  of  the 
eggs  well  beaten  together  with  the  melted  shortening, 
salt  and  the  balance  of  the  flour.  Knead  well  about  five 
minutes,  return  to  bowl,  brush  top  with  shortening, 
cover  and  set  in  warm  steamy  place  until  double  its 
bulk. 

The  dough  may  be  worked  down  again  without  tak- 
ing from  bowl. 

178 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Roll  the  dough  out  about  one-half  inch  thick,  place 
in  pans,  brush  plentifully  with  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Core,  peel  and  cut  into  slices,  apples  that 
are  easily  cooked  tender.  Cut  the  slices  in  halves  and 
lay  them  closely  overlapping  over  the  dough.  Sprinkle 
again  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

When  light  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

KIRSCH-KUCHEN 
(Cherry  Bread) 
Make  the  same  as  Apfel-Kuchen,  using  pitted  cher- 
ries cut  in  halves  instead  of  apples  and  omit  the  cin- 
namon. 

SHAMROCKS 
MATERIALS : 

ZYz  cups  water  or  milk  6     cups  flour 

or  both  ^  cup  shortening 

3/^     cup  sugar  1     cake  yeast 

2       egg  whites  2     mashed  potatoes  or  Yi  cup 
1       tablespoon  salt  flour  scalded 

PREPARATION: 

First  make  a  sponge  with  the  potatoes  or  scalded 
flour  and  the  sugar,  dissolved  yeast  and  enough  of  the 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  If  compressed  yeast  is  used 
the  sponge  will  be  ready  in  half  an  hour. 

Add  to  the  sponge  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well 
beaten  and  the  melted  shortening,  salt  and  the  balance 
of  the  flour.  Knead  well  about  five  minutes,  return  to 
bowl,  brush  top  with  shortening,  cover  and  set  in 
warm,  steamy  place  until  double  its  bulk. 

The  dough  may  be  worked  down  again  without  tak- 
ing from  bowl. 

Mold  into  balls  of  dough  slightly  larger  than  wal- 
nuts, allowing  three  of  these  to  each  cup  of  well  greased 
gem  pans. 

Brush  the  palms  with  melted  shortening  and  deftly 
roll  each  ball  of  dough  between  the  palms,  dropping  into 

179 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

the  gem  pans.  Let  them  rise  in  warm,  steamy  place 
and  before  putting  in  the  oven,  brush  with  a  mixture  of 
egg  yolk  and  water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty 
minutes. 

Upon  taking  from  the  oven  brush  with  the  melted 
shortening. 

BOSTON  BUTTER  BUNS 

For  these  use  the  Shamrocks  formula 
PREPARATION : 

Break  off  a  large  piece  of  the  dough  and  roll  into 
long  heavy  rope,  cut  off  sizable  piece  for  buns,  flatten 
out  with  the  hands  and  place  a  small  teaspoon  of  butter 
in  the  center.  Fold  dough  into  it  and  shape  into  balls. 
Place  these  so  they  will  not  touch  in  a  shallow  pan. 
Let  rise  to  double  their  bulk,  brush  with  egg  mixture 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

When  properly  made  they  will  break  open  in  flaky 
layers. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS 

Make  the  dough  as  for  "Shamrocks."  Make  a  long 
thick  rope  of  the  dough  and  cut  off  pieces  as  for  large 
buns. 

Grease  each  one  well  and  place  in  dripping  pan  close 
but  not  crowded. 

Set  away  to  proof  or  rise;  do  not  allow  to  get  too 
light. 

When  ready  for  the  oven  make  an  incision  with  a 
sharp  knife  across  the  top  of  each  in  form  of  a  cross. 

Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Immediately  on  removing  from  the  oven  brush  with 
egg  wash,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  return  to 
the  oven  for  a  moment. 

These  buns  are  of  English  origin  and  it  was  an  old 
English  custom  to  peddle  them  on  the  streets  on  Ash 
Wednesday. 

180 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MEATS 

Protein  as  found  in  meat:  With  meat  prices  soar- 
ing, the  thrifty  housewife  looks  about  for  new  ways 
to  serve  cheaper  cuts.  This  is  well,  for  the  cheaper 
cuts,  be  it  known,  are  as  rich  in  nutritive  value  as  the 
expensive  cuts.  The  housewife  among  the  poorer 
classes  of  other  countries  seems  to  come  naturally  by 
the  principles  of  the  conservation  of  the  full  value  of 
food  products,  just  as  the  earnest  thinking  women  of 
this  country  are  coming  to  realize  the  significance  of 
this  problem. 

Although  a  common  article  of  diet,  little  is  known 
about  the  selection,  cooking  and  nutritive  value  of  the 
different  cuts  of  meat. 

As  a  rule,  round  steak  is  cut  too  thin,  thereby  los- 
ing much  of  the  juice  contained  in  it. 

Lean  of  meat  supplies  a  valuable  form  of  protein 
or  muscle  building  food. 

The  structure  of  meat  should  be  well  understood 
in  order  to  make  clear  the  science  of  properly  conserv- 
ing the  protein  and  gaining  full  food  value  for  expendi- 
ture, and  full  flavor  to  make  the  dish  palatable  and 
tasty. 

The  protein  is  found  in  large  proportion  in  the 
muscular  part  of  the  animal.  As  a  rule,  meat  must 
be  cut  across  the  grain  or  muscle.  This  peculiarity  of 
structure  makes  the  loss  of  protein  more  rapid  if  the 
meat  is  not  carefully  seared  to  prevent  its  loss. 

A  gentle  heat  is  necessary  to  break  down  and 
soften  the  tissue,  but  the  searing  process  must  first 
be  performed,  then  the  heat  reduced  until  cooking  is 
finished.  This  is  an  inexorable  rule  to  be  followed, 
except  when  making  beef  tea  or  soups. 

Meat  intended  for  beef  tea  and  soups  requires  just 
the  opposite  treatment  to  extract  the  juice. 

181 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

The  protein  of  meat  is  similar  in  its  property  to  the 
white  of  eggy  and  when  subjected  to  intense  heat  co- 
agulates or  hardens,  making  it  indigestible  as  well  as 
unpalatable.  This  coagulation  begins  at  about  130 
degrees  Fahr.,  therefore,  in  stewing  or  cooking  meat 
in  water,  learn  to  maintain  the  cooking  below  the  boil- 
ing or  bubbling  point  of  water,  which  in  this  altitude 
is  212  degrees. 

Meat  should  be  simmered,  not  boiled. 

To  the  housewife  who  uses  a  gas  range,  the  use 
of  the  small  simmering  burner  for  that  purpose,  with 
the  flame  turned  low,  is  recommended.  For  the  owner 
of  a  wood  or  coal  range,  it  is  a  very  easy  matter  to 
keep  the  kettle  at  the  right  point  of  heat  on  the  back 
of  the  range. 

To  prepare  a  pot  roast,  the  cook  formerly  put  the 
meat  into  a  kettle  of  hot  drippings,  turning  constantly 
until  seared  entirely  over  the  surface.  The  principle 
was  right,  but  not  everyone  cares  to  stand  over  the 
sputtering  grease.  A  little  easier  way  is  to  place  meat 
in  a  vessel  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water  in  which  a 
large  spoonful  of  salt  has  boiled,  as  this  increases  the 
heat  of  the  water. 

Boiling  salted  water  will  have  a  greater  heat  than 
boiling  unsalted  water. 

Oven  roasts  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way,  then 
placed  in  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  later  reducing 
heat  and  allowing  to  cook  at  the  lower  temperature. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH  (GULYAS) 
(A  choice  dish  of  mutton) 
MATERIALS: 

2    pounds  mutton  Parsley  to  garnish 

(cheaper  cuts)  3  medium  potatoes 

2    medium  onions  1  green  pepper 

5^  cup  drippings  or  1  cup  rich  milk  or  evaporated 

margarine  milk  reduced  slightly 

Salt  and  paprika  to  season 

182 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  drippings  in  a  deep  stew  kettle,  aluminum 
preferred;  slice  the  onions  and  green  pepper  into  it 
and  cook  briskly  for  ten  minutes.  Then  cut  the  meat 
into  pieces  about  the  size  of  an  egg  and  cook  until 
well  seared  over,  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Add  half  a  cup  of  hot  water;  cover  and  cook  until 
tender  over  simmering  burner  or  low  fire,  adding  water 
in  small  quantities  as  necessary. 

When  meat  is  tender,  place  the  potatoes,  which 
have  been  diced,  on  top  of  the  meat;  cover  again  and 
steam  until  tender,  but  not  too  soft. 

Then  add  the  milk,  salt  and  a  generous  seasonmg 
of  the  paprika.    Serve  garnished  with  minced  parsley. 

The  main  point  to  remember  is  to  keep  barely 
enough  water  on  the  meat  so  when  finally  the  milk 
is  added  there  is  no  water  remaining.  That  is  the  secret 
of  the  choice  flavor. 

Beef  or  veal  may  be  used,  taking  the  cheaper  cuts. 
But  the  Hungarians  use  mutton  in  making  this  dish, 
for  which  they  are  famous. 

MEXICAN  ROUND  STEAK 

Select  a  thick  steak  and  hack  with  a  sharp  knife, 
working  in  all  the  flour  possible.  Put  into  hot  skillet 
with  half  cup  of  drippings,  turning  until  well  seared. 
Pour  over  it  one  cup  of  water  and  a  covering  of  to- 
matoes, a  couple  of  medium  onions  minced  fine,  with 
a  minced  green  pepper.  Cook  for  about  one  hour. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cover  with  a  liberal  grat- 
ing of  cheese  and  slightly  brown.  This  method  con- 
serves all  of  the  meat  juices  and  provides  a  delicious 
gravy. 

188 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PROPER   METHOD    OF   BROILING   A    STEAK 
(Under  Gas  Broiler) 

Order  your  steak  two  inches  thick. 

Heat  the  broiler  by  lighting  the  burner  five  min- 
utes before  putting  the  steak  on  the  rack.  Prepare 
the  steak  by  cutting  away  all  superfluous  fat,  which 
has  a  tendency  to  scorch  and  fill  the  pan  with  drip- 
pings that  in  turn  may  catch  fire. 

Place  the  steak  as  close  to  the  flame  as  possible 
and  sear  over  quickly,  turning  two  or  three  times  dur- 
ing the  first  eight  or  ten  minutes,  then  reduce  the  heat 
and  place  the  steak  a  little  further  away  from  the  flame. 

In  turning  the  steak  be  careful  not  to  pierce  the 
lean  part  of  the  meat  with  the  fork,  as  that  will  release 
the  juice  and  make  the  meat  drier. 

Steak  two  inches  thick  requires  from  10  to  20 
minutes. 

Steak  an  inch  thick  requires  from  8  to  15  minutes 
to  broil.  Do  not  hurry  the  process  after  the  first  seven 
or  eight  minutes,  unless  your  steak  is  very  thin,  in 
which  case  it  will  be  finished  in  that  time. 

When  the  steak  to  be  broiled  is  not  large  enough 
to  cover  a  considerable  part  of  the  broiler,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  place  a  shallow  biscuit  or  pie  pan  directly  under 
the  rack  where  the  meat  is  placed,  in  this  way  retain- 
ing the  juice  and  drippings  in  one  place  and  lessening 
the  liability  of  the  drippings  catching  fire,  at  the  same 
time  conserving  the  juices  for  serving  with  the  steak. 

Do  not  attempt  to  broil  a  round  steak.  Its  texture 
is  such  that  the  heat  draws  out  the  juice  before  it  is 
seared.  The  steaks  to  broil  are:  sirloin,  tenderloin, 
porterhouse  and  club. 

From  an  exceptionally  prime  beef  a  nice  two  inch 
thick  cut  from  either  the  shoulder  or  chuck  or  from 
the  rump  is  suitable  for  broiling. 

184 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

Prepare  fresh  mushrooms  by  scrubbing  gently  with 
a  vegetable  brush.  Do  not  permit  them  to  soak  in 
the  water  but  drain  immediately. 

Place  some  drippings  in  a  saucepan.  Slice  the 
stems  and  caps,  reserving  three  perfect  caps  for  gar- 
nishing. Saute  all  of  the  mushrooms  about  five  to  ten 
minutes,  removing  the  three  caps  before  completing 
the  sauce.  Blend  four  level  tablespoons  of  flour  to 
each  pint  of  sauce  desired,  with  the  drippings  in  the 
pan,  drawing  the  mushrooms  to  one  side.  Add  stock 
or  hot  water  and  simmer  until  creamy.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  add  the  drippings  that  collect  in 
the  pan  under  the  broiling  steak. 

Fry  three  large  thick  slices  of  either  apple  or  green 
or  ripe  tomatoes.     Slice  a  stuffed  olive. 

Dish  the  steak  onto  a  heated  platter ;  pour  the  mush- 
room sauce  around  the  steak.  Place  the  three  slices 
of  tomato  and  over  each  slice  place  a  mushroom  cap 
and  the  slice  of  olive  over  the  cap. 

Bring  to  the  table  piping  hot. 

TO  BOIL  A  HAM 

Get  away  from  the  old  fashioned  notion  that  a  ham 
requires  soaking  over  night.  Cleanse  the  ham  properly, 
then  pour  over  a  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Cover  and 
put  on  the  simmering  burner  of  the  gas  range  or  on  the 
back  of  the  coal  stove  and  cook  until  tender  without 
allowing  to  boil  at  a  gallop.  The  ham  thus  cooked  will 
retain  all  the  meat  juices  and  can  cook  at  a  temperature 
of  175  degrees  Fahr. 

If  a  fireless  cooker  is  convenient,  allow  the  kettle  to 
remain  on  the  fire  fifteen  minutes  before  placing  in  the 
cooker.  If  hot  radiators  are  part  of  the  cooking  equip- 
ment, the  fifteen  minutes  on  the  range  are  not  neces- 
sary. 

185 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

TO  ROAST  A  HAM 
Remove  it  from  the  fireless  cooker,  place  in  a  roaster 
or  dripping  pan;  take  off  all  the  skin  and  surplus  fat; 
cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  brown 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  spices,  and  stick  cloves  over  the 
surface.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  about  thirty  to  forty- 
five  minutes. 

CIDER  SAUCE 
(To  serve  with  Baked  Ham) 
MATERIALS : 

1  pint  cider  Yz  cup  chopped  gherkins 

1  tablespoon  capers  3    tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  ham  fat  Yz  teaspoon  curry  powder 

from  kettle  1     teaspoon  whole  allspice 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  ham  fat  in  the  skillet;  add  curry  powder; 
allow  to  heat  thoroughly.  Then  add  the  flour,  follow- 
ing it  with  the  hot  cider  and  allspice.  Cook  until 
creamy. 

In  the  absence  of  cider,  hot  water  to  which  three 
tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  two  finely  grated  apples 
have  been  added,  may  be  substituted. 

RAISIN  SAUCE 
MATERIALS : 

Yz     cupful  raisins  2  level  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1/4  cupfuls  water  3  level  tablespoonfuls  butter 
^     teaspoonful  mace  or  or  drippings 

spice  Salt  to  season 

PREPARATION: 

Simmer  the  raisins  about  ten  minutes  in  the  water. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  blend  the  flour  and 
spice  with  it.  Turn  the  raisins  and  liquor  in  which 
they  were  simmered  into  the  saucepan  and  cook  until 
creamy. 

Serve  hot  with  roast  ham. 

186 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MEAT   LOAF— No.  1 
MATERIALS : 

3     pounds  lean  beef  1  teaspoon  salt 

^  pound  raw  ham  1  teaspoon  pepper 

2  eggs  well  beaten  3  tablespoons  milk 

3  soda  crackers  rolled  4  hard  boiled  eggs 

fine 

PREPARATION : 

Chop  the  beef  and  ham  very  fine,  then  add  the  salt, 
pepper  and  cracker  crumbs,  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  the 
milk.  Mix  all  these  together  perfectly,  grease  a  bread 
pan  thoroughly,  and  press  half  the  mixture  into  it 
firmly.  Trim  each  end  of  your  hard  boiled  eggs  so  as 
to  make  a  flat  surface,  then  put  them  on  top  of  the  mix- 
ture in  the  bread  pan,  placing  them  in  a  row,  end  to  end. 
Now  pack  on  top  the  balance  of  your  meat,  pressing  it 
down  firmly.  Cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one 
hour. 

Serve  either  hot  or  cold  in  slices. 

Minced  onion,  garlic  or  green  peppers  or  mixed 
herbs  add  much  to  the  flavor. 

MEAT    LOAF— No.  2 
MATERIALS: 

1  pound  uncooked  beef  1  cup  milk 

1  pound  uncooked  mutton    2  eggs 

3  cups  bread  crumbs  Seasoning  to  taste,  add  onions 

1  pound  fresh  lean  pork  or  garlic,  if  desired 

MATERIALS : 

Put  the  meats  through  the  food  chopper,  mix  with 
the  other  materials,  beating  the  eggs  slightly. 

Bake  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Care  should  be  taken  not  to  overcook  meat  loaf  as 
it  makes  it  dry. 

The  most  acceptable  seasoning  is  a  combination  of 
sage,  marjoram,  sweet  basil,  th5mie  and  summer  savory. 

187 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

MUTTON    CURRY 

MATERIALS : 

3  cups  of  mutton  from  the  2  medium  onions,  minced 

neck  cut  into  inch  1  quart  boiling  water 

cubes  2  sprigs  mint 

1  stalk  celery  3  tablespoons  each   margaine 
Minced  parsley  and  flour 

1  teaspoon  curry  powder  Salt  and  pepper 
Boiled  rice 

PREPARATION: 

Put  the  meat  over  a  gentle  fire  to  stew  or  simmer 
in  the  quart  of  water.  When  almost  tender  add  the 
minced  onion  and  half  a  dozen  leaves  of  the  mint.  Re- 
move when  tender  and  strain  the  liquor. 

Melt  the  margarine,  add  the  curry  powder,  let  saute 
about  three  minutes;  add  the  flour  and  the  strained 
liquor,  then  the  seasoning. 

Cook  until  creamy,  pour  it  over  the  meat  or  add 
the  meat  to  it.  Serve  either  in  a  border  or  around  a 
mound  of  cooked  rice.  The  mound  is  much  to  be  pre- 
ferred, as  in  this  way  the  rice  does  not  chill  and  the 
meat  and  curry  sauce  is  poured  around  it.  Sprinkle 
over  all  the  remaining  minced  mint  and  the  minced 
parsley. 

BRAISED    SOUP    MEAT 

Select  some  of  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  with  the 
bone  included;  for  instance,  rib  end  of  beef  or  oxtail. 

The  soup  meat,  if  properly  treated  for  soup  mak- 
ing, is  at  its  best  rather  tasteless  for  hashes,  etc. 

Try  this  method  of  braising  the  soup  meat  and 
serve  at  the  same  meal  at  which  the  soup  is  served. 

Half  an  hour  before  dinner  take  the  pieces  of  meat 
from  the  kettle,  drain,  roll  in  cracker  meal,  which  has 

188 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

been  seasoned  with  salt,  paprika  and  pepper,  place  in 
a  small  dripping  pan,  surround  with  half  a  can  of  to- 
matoes, a  small  onion  sliced  and  a  green  pepper  minced. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  frequently.  To  make  the 
dinner  complete,  serve  baked  potatoes.  The  meat  left 
over  can  be  used  for  hash  or  meat  pie,  and  has  a  good 
flavor. 

POT  PIES 

What  we  know  now  as  meat  or  pot  pies  originated 
with  the  meat  pie  covered  with  a  suet  pastry  and  cooked 
under  water  in  a  kettle. 

The  "Cousin  Jack  pasties"  of  the  Cornish  miners  of 
the  West  are  also  an  evolution  of  the  suet  meat  pie. 

Now,  instead  of  using  the  suet  pastry,  they  are  made 
with  shortening  and  baking  powder  and  baked  slowly 
in  up-to-date  gas  range  ovens.  I  have  seen  great  pans 
full  of  these  pasties  in  the  process  of  preparation  for  the 
miners'  lunch  or  dinner  buckets.  And  very  sensible 
they  are,  for  they  include  bread,  meat  and  vegetables  all 
in  one  handful.  I  have  often  thought  how  much  more 
sensible  for  some  of  these  little  folks*  school  lunches, 
rather  than  what  is  often  given  them. 

ENGLISH   PORK  PIES 
(No.  1) 

English  pork  pies  are  made  in  a  variety  of  ways,  the 
commonest  of  all  is  probably  the  individual  "pasty." 

Ordinary  pie  pastry  is  used  to  line  little  patty  pans. 
An  easy  and  quick  way  to  do  this  is  to  line  one  tin,  after 
rolling  out  the  paste.  Then  take  it  from  the  pan  to  use 
for  a  pattern  and  with  a  pastry  cutter  cut  out  as  many 
as  required  to  line  the  tins.  With  a  biscuit  cutter  of  the 
proper  size,  cut  out  tops  for  the  pies  that  will  just  meet 
the  edge  all  around.    Stew  until  tender  some  very  lean 

189 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

fresh  pork,  season  with  thyme,  minced  onions,  salt  and 
pepper.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  dice.  Thicken  the 
liquor  in  which  the  pork  was  cooked,  add  to  it  the  diced 
meat,  fill  each  patty  tin,  make  two  or  three  openings  in 
the  covers  and  put  them  in  place.    Brush  with  milk. 

Put  them  on  to  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  about 
thirty  minutes. 

ENGLISH   PORK  PIES 
(No.  2) 

Take  finger  length  strips  of  lean  fresh  pork,  roll 
them  in  flour  and  saute  in  very  little  of  the  fat,  trimmed 
from  the  pork.  Line  a  very  deep  pie  tin  or  a  pudding 
dish  with  pastry.  Put  in  a  layer  of  pork,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  mace.  Then  a  layer  of  sliced  tart 
apples. 

Have  prepared  some  sugar  and  flour  mixed  in  the 
proportion  of  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  to  one  of 
sugar.  Sprinkle  some  of  this  over  the  apples  with  a 
dusting  of  nutmeg. 

Fill  up  the  dish  with  alternate  layers.  Pour  in  suffi- 
cient cider  to  moisten  the  contents.  Dot  with  butter 
and  put  the  top  pastry  in  place.    Brush  with  milk. 

Bake  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

PAPRIKA   SCHNITZEL 

To  make  this  procure  one  round  of  thick  veal  steak. 
Cut  it  into  finger  length  strips  and  about  an  inch  thick. 
Place  in  the  frying  pan  about  three  tablespoons  of  oil 
or  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork.  Roll  the  strips  of 
veal  in  flour  and  saute  them  in  the  fat  or  oil.  Remove 
the  meat  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  -when  well 
mixed  pour  in  the  strained  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes 
and  add  a  small  onion  minced,  a  pinch  of  mace. 

190 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Return  the  meat  to  the  pan,  cover  closely,  and  sim- 
mer gently  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When  done 
remove  the  meat,  season  the  sauce  with  salt  and  a  gen- 
erous dash  of  paprika. 

Place  the  meat  on  a  hot  platter  and  strain  the  sauce 
over  it. 

PORK   CHEESE 
(Italian) 

MATERIALS: 

1  pound  fresh  pork  Seasoning  of  salt,  pepper, 

4  mushrooms,  chopped  minced  parsley  and  thyme 

Nutmeg,  grated 

PREPARATION: 

Chop  the  pork  rather  coarsely  and  mix  mushrooms 
and  seasoning  with  it.  Put  into  small  well  greased 
mold  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

When  cold  serve  in  slices. 

FRICATELLI 

MATERIALS : 

1  pound  fresh  pork  1  small  onion,  minced  fine 

Bread  crumbs  Salt,  sage  and  pepper  to 

season 

PREPARATION: 

Run  the  meat  through  the  food  grinder,  mix  with 
seasoning  and  bread  crumbs  to  form  little  pats.  Pan- 
broil  on  hot  griddle,  with  plenty  of  drippings.  Serve 
hot. 

SAUSAGE  RISSOLES 

MATERIALS : 

Yt.  pound  sausage  meat  Flour,  salt 

Mashed  potatoes 

191 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  mashed  potatoes  with  flour  so  that  they  can 
be  rolled  out. 

Roll  one-half  inch  thick  and  cut  with  large  biscuit 
cutter.  Place  in  layer  of  the  sausage,  fold  over  and 
pinch  edges  together.  Fry  in  hot  fat  till  a  nice  golden 
brown. 

NEAPOLITAN   BEEF 

Neapolitan  beef  provides  a  delectable  dish  from  a 
left  over  beef  or  broiled  steak.  The  rarer  the  roast  or 
steak,  the  better.  Cut  into  dice  about  two  cups  full,  put 
three  tablespoons  of  oil  or  drippings  into  the  frying 
pan  and  turn  in  the  beef.  Stir  until  slightly  browned. 
Then  add  one  minced  onion,  half  a  dozen  cloves,  a  few 
celery  seed,  a  sprinkle  of  dried  thyme  and  a  teaspoon  of 
dried  or  fresh  minced  parsley.  Add  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
soup  stock  or  gravy.  Simmer  fifteen  minutes,  then  add 
a  wine  glass  of  white  wine.  Serve  this  with  some 
freshly  boiled  rice. 

BROILED    TRIPE 

Cut  the  tripe  in  pieces  for  serving,  brush  these  with 
olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  roll  in  cracker  meal  or  bread  crumbs. 

Put  them  into  a  shallow  pan  under  the  broiler  fire, 
turning  constantly  until  browned  lightly.  Spread  with 
maitre  d'hotel  butter  or  with  tomato  sauce. 

CURRIED   TRIPE 

Cook  an  onion,  cut  in  rings,  in  one-quarter  cup  of 
drippings  or  shortening  until  yellow  and  softened,  add 
one  level  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  saute  and  add  a 
dash  of  paprika,  salt  and  two  level  tablespoons  flour. 
When  these  are  well  blended  with  the  drippings  add  a 
cup  of  white  stock  and  a  cup  of  milk,  or  in  the  absence 

192 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

of  the  stock  use  two  cups  of  milk,  and  cook  till  smooth. 
Cut  the  tripe  into  small  pieces  to  serve  and  add  them 
to  the  curry.  Let  stand  over  hot  water.  Finish  with  a 
tablespoon  or  two  of  lemon  juice. 

Curry  powder  must  always  be  sauted  in  oil  or  butter 
before  adding  it  to  any  dish.  This  brings  out  or  de- 
velops the  right  seasoning  quality. 

CREAMED    SWEETBREADS 

MATERIALS : 

1  pair  sweetbreads  1  pint  cream  sauce,  No.  1 

1  sliced  onion  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION: 

Blanch  the  sweetbreads  by  placing  for  thirty  min- 
utes in  cold  water.  Then  drop  into  boiling  salted  water 
and  simmer  one-half  hour.  Drop  into  cold  water  to 
blanch  or  place  under  cold  water  faucet.  Cut  into  small 
pieces,  discarding  all  dark  tissues  and  membranes. 
Have  the  cream  sauce  hot  and  add  the  sweetbreads  to 
it.  The  slice  of  onion  may  be  put  in  the  milk  in  mak- 
ing the  cream  sauce. 

When  the  sweetbreads  and  cream  sauce  are  com- 
bined, season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  in  pate 
shells,  or  timbale  cases. 

CROWN   ROAST  OF  LAMB 

This  crown  of  lamb  or  mutton  seems  to  naturally 
fit  in  to  the  meat  course  in  an  Easter  menu.  Procure 
from  the  meat  market  the  rack  of  lamb  or  mutton,  with 
the  chops  split  apart  at  the  base,  but  not  detached. 
The  chops  are  then  trimmed  or  "frenched,"  and  the  meat 
trimmed  away  is  rolled  down  to  the  eye  of  tender  meat. 

The  rack  is  split  apart  down  the  line  of  the  back- 
bone and  the  two  divisions  are  fastened  together  at  the 

193 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

ends,  with  the  chops  out,  to  form  a  circle.  Pin  brown 
paper  over  the  exposed  ends  of  the  chop  bones  or  ribs, 
so  that  they  will  not  become  too  brown  in  the  oven. 
Tie  or  truss  each  bone  so  as  to  keep  the  rib  bones  uni- 
formly apart,  one  from  the  other. 

Put  the  roast  thus  prepared  into  a  dripping  pan  and 
into  a  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  In  addition 
to  the  brown  paper  covering  for  the  ends  of  the  bones, 
invert  a  large  granite  saucepan  over  the  roast,  allow- 
ing it  to  rest  on  the  chop  ends.  After  it  has  been  in  the 
hot  oven  twenty  minutes,  season  it  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, add  a  little  hot  water  and  roast  about  an  hour  at 
a  reduced  heat. 

When  cooked,  fill  the  crown  with  steamed  brussels 
sprouts,  dressed  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Place 
French  chop  frills  on  each  chop  bone.  Serve  with  a 
mint  or  caper  sauce  in  sauce  boat. 

BRAISED  TONGUE   (Cider  Sauce) 

MATERIALS: 

Tongue,  either  smoked  or     ^    dozen    each    cloves,    all- 
pickled  in  brine  spice  and  bay  leaf  or  two 
1  pint  cider,  wine,  cham-      Cracker  meal  to  which  a  little 
pagne  or  sherry                    flour  has  been  added  and 

seasoned     with     salt     and 
pepper. 

PREPARATION: 

If  the  tongue  is  smoked,  soak  it  for  several  hours  in 
cold  water.  Cook  in  water  to  cover  without  rapid  boil- 
ing until  tender,  having  put  the  cloves,  allspice  and  bay 
leaf  in  the  water.  Remove  from  the  water  when  tender, 
dash  cold  water  over  it  and  remove  the  skin. 

Roll  or  coat  with  the  cracker  meal,  place  in  dripping 
pan  and  add  the  cider  and  some  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  tongue  was  cooked. 

194 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Baste  often  with  the  cider.  A  little  brown  sugar 
will  add  to  the  flavor  if  sprinkled  over  the  tongue  while 
in  the  oven.  Time  in  oven,  about  one-half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

If,  when  taken  from  the  oven,  the  cider  is  not  creamy 
for  the  sauce,  a  little  thickening  may  be  added,  but  do 
not  have  sauce  thick.  Two  or  three  minced  gherkins 
add  piquancy  to  the  sauce  for  some  tastes. 


SWEETBREADS   CREOLE 


MATERIALS ; 


1  pound  sweetbreads  2  tablespoons  of  flour 

(2  pairs)  1  egg 

2  oranges  1  green  pepper 

1     lemon  Salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to 
"%.  cup  butter  season,  parsley 

1     cup  boiling  water 


PREPARATION: 

Select  nice,  fresh  sweetbreads.  If  you  cannot  trust 
your  meat  man,  examine  them  to  ascertain  that  they 
are  perfectly  sweet.  Blanch  in  cold  water  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  drop  into  boiling  salted  water  and  sim- 
mer one-half  an  hour.  Put  into  cold  water,  then  drain 
and  with  a  sharp  knife  remove  all  fat  and  membrane, 
but  do  not  cut  into  very  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  them 
with  the  juice  of  one  orange  and  place  in  the  refrigera- 
tor for  two  hours.  Then  place  in  saucepan,  dredge  with 
flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  pieces  of 
butter  and  pour  over  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Then  add  the  orange  juice  in  which  the  sweetbreads 
were  marinaded  and  the  green  pepper  minced.  Place 
in  the  oven  till  nicely  browned,  basting  them  frequently. 
Serve  with  Cuban  Gravy. 

195 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CUBAN   GRAVY 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter.  Mix  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  the  juice  of 
one-half  orange,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  cup  boil- 
ing water.  To  this  add  one  egg,  well  beaten  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  the 
creamed  butter,  pour  around  sweetbreads  and  serve, 
after  garnishing  with  parsley  and  slices  of  orange. 

SWEETBREADS  A  LA  KING 

MATERIALS : 

1  pair  sweetbreads  %  cup  brown  sherry 

3  egg  yolks  Salt  and  dash  of  paprika  to 

3  level  tablespoons  butter  season  highly 

1  cup  cream 

PREPARATION : 

Prepare  and  parboil  the  sweetbreads  as  directed  for 
scrambled  sweetbreads.    Cut  into  small  pieces. 

Place  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  when  heated,  drop 
in  the  sweetbreads  and  toss  in  the  butter  till  well 
heated  through  then  add  the  sherry  and  simmer. 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  into  the  cream,  pour  into  sauce- 
pan and  allow  the  mixture  to  heat  slowly,  then  add  the 
seasoning. 

Serve  on  points  of  toast  which  have  been  dipped  in 
minced  parsley. 

SCRAMBLED   SWEETBREADS 

Blanch  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  by  dropping  into  cold 
water  for  one-half  an  hour.  Cook  them  thirty  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  water.  Remove  from  the  water  and 
allow  cold  water  to  run  over  them  for  a  few  minutes. 
Pick  them  to  pieces,  discarding  all  strings  or  mem- 
branes. 

196 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Break  six  eggs  and  separate  the  whites  from  the 
yolks.  Just  beat  the  yolks  enough  to  mix  with  six 
tablespoons  of  water  and  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  the  yolks  and  sweetbreads  to  the  egg  whites  and 
place  the  pan  over  a  dish  of  boiling  water  or  turn  the 
mixture  back  and  forth,  but  do  not  over  cook.  Turn 
onto  a  warm  platter  and  garnish  with  minced  green  pep- 
pers or  parsley. 

ROAST  CHICKEN 

If  the  roasting  pan  is  small  and  the  chicken  large 
you  will  succeed  very  well  with  it,  but  the  pan  must 
not  be  much  too  large  or  the  flesh  of  the  fowl  will  not  be 
kept  moist.  Long  before  the  double  roasting  pans  were 
thought  of,  iron  kettles  were  used  to  roast  chickens  in. 
The  fowl  was  prepared  and  placed  in  the  iron  kettle,  and 
covered  closely  and  put  into  a  hot  oven. 

Another  very  old-fashioned  method  of  preparing  a 
chicken  for  roasting  is  to  make  a  soft  dough  of  flour,  a 
little  baking  powder  and  water.  Roll  this  about  a 
quarter  inch  thick  and  blanket  the  fowl  completely. 
This  forms  a  coat  of  armor  that  prevents  the  juices  from 
drying  up  in  the  baking,  and  while  I  do  not  personally 
recommend  that  method,  there  are  many  very  excellent 
cooks  who  considered  it  the  very  best  method. 

The  covered  casseroles  of  stoneware,  or  stone  milk 
crocks,  are  ideal  vessels  in  which  to  roast  small  fowl. 
In  fact  nothing  can  equal  them  unless  it  is  the  fireless 
cooker  with  the  heated  plates. 

Only  ordinary  precaution  is  necessary  in  not  sud- 
denly exposing  the  casseroles  to  extremes  of  heat  or 
cold.  Putting  them  into  a  very  hot  oven  would  not 
break  them,  but  pouring  cold  water  on  them  when 
heated,  would. 

197 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Dress,  clean,  truss  and  stuff  the  chicken.  Dust  with 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  If  the  fowl  is  not  fat, 
lay  strips  of  nice  salt  pork  over  it,  and  keep  them  in 
place  with  toothpicks.  This  is  preferable  to  attempting 
to  lard  it,  and  answers  the  purpose  of  keeping  the  sur- 
face basted.  A  four  pound  chicken  requires  about  two 
hours  in  a  casserole,  or  tightly  covered  crock  in  a  hot 
oven. 

BREAD    STUFFING   FOR   CHICKEN 

Crumble  day  old  bread,  free  from  crust,  or  grate  in 
a  coarse  grater. 

Mince  very  fine  or  put  through  a  food  chopper  two 
green  peppers  and  two  medium  onions.  Season  the 
bread  crumbs  with  pepper,  salt,  sage  or  thyme  as  de- 
sired. Add  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  distributed  in 
small  pieces  through  the  dressing.  Moisten  with  a 
sprinkle  of  water,  not  enough  to  make  a  clammy,  sod- 
den mass,  not  even  enough  to  hold  the  ingredients  to- 
gether. Day  old  bread  requires  very  little  water,  some- 
times none. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

MATERIALS : 

2     cupfuls  chicken,  cooked  ^  green  pepper,  stripped 

1     cupful  milk  2     egg  yolks 

34  cupful  Sherry  wine  4    level  tablespoonfuls  butter 

Yz  cupful  mushrooms  Seasoning  of  salt  and  paprika 
1     red  pepper 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  cold  cooked  chicken  in  strips.  Put  the  but- 
ter into  the  saucepan  and  add  the  mushrooms.  If  fresh 
mushrooms,  cook  10  minutes,  if  canned  variety,  cook 
five  minutes.  Blend  the  flour  with  the  butter  and  mush- 
rooms, add  the  peppers  cut  in  strips. 

198 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Stir  the  egg  yolk  with  the  milk.  Add  the  Sherry 
to  the  sauce  pan  and  when  heated  stir  in  the  milk  and 
egg  mixture. 

Cook  until  creamy,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and 
keep  hot.    Add  seasoning  of  salt  and  paprika. 

CHILI   CON   CARNE 
(Pepper  with  Meat) 

MATERIALS: 

2  pounds  round  or  lean  %  cup  margarine  or  beef  drip- 
chuck  steak  or  mutton  pings 

2  pimientoes  or  large  Chili  %  can  tomatoes 

peppers  1     large  onion 

2  cups  rice  or  spaghetti  Garlic,  salt  and  pepper  or 
(cooked)  Creole  seasoning 

PREPARATION : 

Trim  meat  free  from  fat  and  gristle ;  cut  into  cubes 
size  of  an  egg;  roll  them  in  flour.  Place  a  stew  pan 
over  the  fire  and  put  into  it  the  drippings  and  onion 
and  when  hot  turn  in  the  meat  and  brown,  then  the 
tomatoes  and  sliced  pimientoes  and  cook  until  meat  is 
tender.  Make  a  border  of  the  cooked  rice  or  spaghetti 
either  on  a  chop  plate  or  platter.  Serve  the  chili  con 
carne  in  this  border.  Garnish  by  placing  half  slices  of 
lemon  and  rings  of  pimientoes,  alternately,  around  the 
border  of  rice. 


BAKED  HAM  SUPREME 

(Madeira  Sauce) 

MATERIALS: 

1  medium  sized  lean  ham      %  dozen  allspice 

1  pint  wine  Bay  leaves 

Handful  of  cloves  Cracker  meal  and  flour 

199 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Cleanse  the  ham  thoroughly  with  a  vegetable  brush 
and  soda,  rinse  every  particle  of  the  soda  from  the  ham. 
Plunge  into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  then  take 
from  this  water  and  put  over  to  cook  in  water  about 
175  degrees  Fahr.,  and  maintain  that  temperature  for 
about  five  hours.  Throw  the  allspice  and  about  one- 
half  dozen  cloves  and  bay  leaves  into  the  water.  Re- 
move and  without  allowing  the  ham  to  cool,  take  off  the 
skin  and  all  but  a  thin  strip  of  the  fat.  With  a  thin 
bladed  knife  take  off  the  smoked  surface  of  the  lean 
part.  Make  a  paste  of  cracker  meal  and  flour  in  equal 
proportions  and  some  fat  skimmed  from  the  kettle,  and 
cover  the  surface  of  the  ham  with  it.  Stick  the  remain- 
ing cloves  in  the  ham.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  with  the 
wine  or  cider,  and  a  cup  of  the  liquor  from  the  kettle. 
Baste  frequently  and  bake  until  browned  all  over. 

A  dash  of  Harvey  and  tomato  sauce,  and  just  before 
serving,  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  creamed  with  some 
of  the  fat  from  the  kettle,  completes  a  delicious  sauce. 
Champagne,  brown  sherry,  cider  or  grape  juice,  may  be 
used.  Bring  to  the  table  in  a  large  platter  in  a  bed  of 
water  cress  and  sprinkled  with  minced  parsley.  Trim 
the  meat  from  the  end  bone,  decorate  the  bone  with  a 
quill  of  paper,  or  tie  a  bunch  of  parsley  around  it. 

BRAWN 
MATERIALS : 

3  pounds  fresh  veal  Seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and 

2  pounds  fresh  pork  sage,  marjoram  and  thyme 

PREPARATION : 

Select  the  cheaper  cut  of  veal  stewing  meat,  the  same 
of  pork,  with  as  little  fat  as  possible.  Put  into  stew 
kettle  with  water  to  barely  cover  and  cook  until  tender. 
Do  not  boil  to  pieces. 

800 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

When  cooked,  drain  from  the  kettle,  take  out  the 
bones  and  chop  rather  coarse.    Add  seasoning. 

Return  to  the  liquor  and  cook  up  once,  then  dish  into 
a  cheese  cloth  sack,  set  this  into  a  bowl  or  dish,  place  a 
pan  or  plate  on  top  of  it,  and  heavy  weights  to  press. 
Three  of  the  ordinary  flat  irons  will  give  sufficient 
weight  to  compress.  This  may  be,  when  cold,  kept  in 
a  jar  of  slightly  salted  water  and  kept  a  week  or  two.  Is 
delicious  sliced  cold,  or  may  be  warmed  over. 

BRUNSWICK    STEW 

This  stew  is  the  chef  d'oeuvre  of  an  out-of-door 
feast  and  the  capsheaf  of  good  eating. 

Its  making  does  not  require  a  dainty  housewife  in  a 
white  apron  before  a  twentieth  century  gas  range.  A 
camp  fire  and  kettles  and  perhaps  a  chopping  bowl 
completes  all  the  equipment  necessary.  No  special 
culinary  ability  is  required,  nothing  but  a  discrimina- 
tion in  seasoning,  that  is  left  solely  to  the  genius  and 
judgment  of  the  cook.  And  is  there  a  man  to  be  found, 
who  does  not  think  he  can  season  a  dish  just  a  little  bet- 
ter than  any  woman  that  ever  lived? 

MATERIALS : 

A  four  or  five  pound  Butter 

chicken  2  cups  milk 

2  pounds  veal  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  quarts  tomatoes  Fresh  corn  and  tomatoes 
1  quart  corn  may  be  used 

PREPARATION: 

Green  corn  is  much  to  be  preferred.  The  kernels 
must  be  scored  and  the  ears  scraped.  Green  peppers 
and  a  pint  of  okra  are  desirable  additions. 

Singe,  draw  and  cut  up  the  chicken  at  the  joints. 
Cover  with  water  and  stew  till  tender,  then  take  the 
meat  from  the  bones  and  with  the  giblets  and  liver  chop 

201 


THE       CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

very  fine.  Return  it  to  the  kettle  and  add  all  of  the  in- 
gredients except  the  milk.  Cook  well  and  add  a  pinch 
of  soda.    Then  add  the  boiling  milk. 

HOT   TAMALES 

When  the  hostess  is  weary  of  sandwiches  and  her 
ingenuity  is  taxed,  let  her  surprise  and  please  her  folks 
with  tamales,  hot  or  cold.  Almost  any  meat  may  be 
used,  meat  that  is  not  fat,  mutton  or  veal  or  both  are 
better  than  beef,  but  of  course  chicken  leads  them  all. 
With  a  little  calculation  there  is  very  little  work  in- 
volved. 

The  reports  of  the  lengthy  process  of  making  them 
in  Mexico  leads  one  to  suppose  that  the  process  is  very 
elaborate.  The  Mexicans  have  to  grind  the  corn  to 
make  the  meal  in  the  most  primitive  fashion.  They  use 
what  is  called  a  "metata"  to  grind  the  paste  after  hav- 
ing soaked  the  dried  yellow  corn  in  lime  water.  This 
is  tedious  and  does  not  result  in  a  tamale  of  any  better 
quality  than  when  made  of  cornmeal.  The  only  diffi- 
culty may  be  in  obtaining  the  corn  husks.  But  if  im- 
possible to  secure  them,  take  instead  six-inch  squares 
of  cheese  cloth.  The  husks  are  much  to  be  preferred, 
yet  in  their  absence  the  cheese  cloth  will  answer. 

I  would  suggest  a  large  chicken  or  chickens.  Re- 
serve the  breast  meat  for  club  sandwiches  and  use  the 
dark  meat  for  the  tamales.  Split  the  chicken  down  the 
back  after  singeing  it.  Draw  and  cleanse  it.  Without 
dismembering  the  fowl  put  it  with  the  liver,  heart  and 
giblets  into  water  to  barely  cover  it.  If  it  is  an  old  hen 
add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  water.  Place  it  over  a  slow 
fire  so  that  it  will  cook  at  a  temperature  below  the  boil- 
ing point.  When  tender  remove  from  the  kettle  and 
allow  to  cool  sufficiently  to  handle. 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Disjoint  and  cut  all  pieces  into  inch  cubes  as  nearly 
as  possible.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  oil  from  the 
chicken  put  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  medium  sized  onion,  minced  fine,  and  red 
peppers  to  season.  Add  a  rounding  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  then  pour  in  about  three  cups  of  the  chicken  broth, 
cook  till  creamy,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika. 
Add  the  chicken  and  take  from  the  fire.  Do  not  cook 
the  chicken  too  much  as  it  must  not  be  stringy. 

While  the  chicken  is  cooking  scald  the  corn  husks 
and  boil  for  one-half  hour.  Then  rinse  in  cold  water. 
Cut  off  the  extreme  tapering  tips  and  cut  the  leaves 
from  the  stalks.  This  is  better  accomplished  with  the 
shears.  Cook  three  cups  of  cornmeal  thoroughly  and 
add  a  dash  of  salt,  as  for  mush. 

Place  two  broad  leaves  close  together  and  parallel, 
and  where  they  join  place  another,  to  make  a  close  cov- 
ering for  the  tamale  filling.  Spread  the  cornmeal  paste 
or  mush  about  a  quarter  to  half  an  inch  thick.  Put  a 
couple  of  spoonfuls  of  the  chicken  with  the  gravy  on 
this  paste,  and  put  a  stuffed  olive  and  a  couple  of  seeded 
raisins  in  each  one.  Gather  the  ends  of  the  husks  and 
fold  over  the  contents,  lapping  the  layer  of  paste  and 
the  husks.  Tie  each  end  securely.  Place  all  in  a 
steamer,  cover  closely  and  cook  one  hour. 

They  may  be  eaten  cold  or  reheated  by  steaming. 

To  serve,  place  them  on  a  platter,  snip  the  strings 
and  serve  them  as  they  are.  Each  person  can  unfold 
and  lay  aside  the  husks.  The  canned  pimento  may  be 
used  in  place  of  either  olives  or  raisins.  The  Mexicans 
often  mix  lard  or  suet  with  the  cornmeal  in  making  the 
paste. 

Should  corn  husks  be  out  of  the  question,  and 
small  squares  of  cheese  cloth  substituted,  lay  on  the 

203 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

paste  about  one-half  inch  thick,  and  when  ready  to 
serve  remove  the  wrapping.  If  the  tamale  is  to  be  eaten 
cold,  roll  it  in  a  leaf  of  lettuce. 

A  tamale  or  two  with  a  green  vegetable  salad  and 
some  thin  buttered  rye  bread  makes  a  most  substantial 
luncheon. 

CHICKEN  CREOLE 

MATERIALS : 

1  chicken  4  medium  potatoes 

3  tablespoons  oil  3  egg  yolks 

1  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  can  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  Creole 

2  red  chili  peppers  ^  teaspoon  pepper 
Flour  Creole  seasoning 
Bay  leaf 

PREPARATION: 

Prepare  a  tender  chicken  as  for  fricassee  by  separat- 
ing at  the  joints,  cutting  each  part  of  the  leg  in  two.  Cut 
the  breast  in  halves  lengthwise  and  then  each  half  in 
three  pieces.  Put  three  tablespoons  of  oil  into  a  kettle, 
add  one  large  onion  cut  fine  and  two  red  chilis.  Stir 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Roll  each  piece  of  chicken  in 
flour  and  brown  in  the  oil.  Pour  one  can  of  tomatoes 
and  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  chicken  into  the  kettle, 
add  a  bay  leaf  and  cook  till  tender,  about  one  hour. 

Pare  four  medium  potatoes,  cut  them  into  dice,  add 
them  to  the  chicken  and  cook  till  tender,  but  not  broken. 
Boil  another  potato  in  another  saucepan  and  put  it 
through  a  puree  sieve,  add  to  it  while  hot  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  a  level  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one  quarter  teaspoon  pepper,  and  Creole  season- 
ing. Place  this  in  a  hot  tureen.  Pour  over  it  the  con- 
tents of  the  kettle,  and  send  to  the  table.  This  takes  the 
place  of  both  soup  and  meat. 

204 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

Instead  of  the  potatoes,  plain  boiled  rice  may  be 
served,  making  a  mound  of  rice  in  the  center  of  the 
tureen. 

CHICKEN   CHILI 
MATERIALS : 

1  small  chicken  1     medium  onion 

5  medium  tomatoes  1     can  red  kidney  beans 

2  red  or  green  chili  y^  pound  salt  pork 

peppers 

PREPARATION: 

Singe  and  wipe  the  fowl  clean.  Split  down  the  back 
and  cleanse  it  well.  Unjoint  and  cut  away  the  breast 
meat  in  large  pieces.  Break  the  half  of  each  half  of  the 
back  in  two  pieces  and  the  neck  into  sections.  Divide 
each  joint  of  the  legs  in  two  pieces. 

Cut  the  pork  into  cubes  and  put  into  a  fry  pan. 
Saute  until  lightly  browned  then  turn  in  the  chicken, 
after  rolling  in  flour,  and  brown.  When  brown  add  the 
chili  pepper  and  onion  minced  fine.  Stir  around  for  a 
minute  or  two  and  add  the  tomatoes  and  one  cup  of 
hot  water. 

Simmer  gently  until  tender. 

Put  the  contents  of  the  can  of  beans  into  a  wire 
strainer  and  drain  off  the  liquor  which  may  be  reserved 
for  soup  stock. 

Before  removing  the  chicken  from  the  fire  add  the 
beans  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

If  the  chili  pepper  is  not  quite  hot  enough  use  more 
than  one-half  of  one  or  use  the  prepared  chili  powder, 
or  Creole  seasoning. 

MEXICAN   CHILI 
MATERIALS : 

2     pounds  uncooked  lean       Yz  can  tomatoes 

meat  (cheaper  cuts)       2     red  Chili  peppers 
y^  cup  drippings  or  Bay  leaf 

margarine  Flour 

1     large  onion  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

205 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Put  the  drippings  into  a  saucepan.  Roll  the  meat, 
which  has  been  diced,  in  the  flour,  and  fry  or  saute  in 
the  drippings,  until  each  piece  is  browned  all  over. 

Draw  the  meat  to  one  side  of  the  dish  and  put  the 
onion  and  peppers  into  the  drippings  to  cook  for  a  mo- 
ment. Add  all  of  the  other  materials,  and  cook  over  low 
flame  until  the  meat  is  tender. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish  cooked  in  the  fireless  cooker. 
If  the  oven  is  being  used,  this  dish  may  be  put  into  a 
casserole  or  butter  jar,  and  completed  in  the  oven. 

Cold  cooked  left  over  or  soup  meat  may  be  used  in 
which  case  thirty  to  forty  minutes  only  will  be  required. 

CHILI   CON   CARNE 


MATERIALS: 

2     pounds  round  or  chuck 

1     green  pepper 

steak 

Yz  can  tomatoes 

Yz  cup  margarine  or  beef 

1     medium  onion 

drippings 

1     cup  rice  or  spaghetti 

Yz  kidney  beans 

(cooked) 

1     pimento  or  large  chili 

Garlic,  salt  and  pepper  or 

pepper 

Creole  seasoning 

PREPARATION : 

Trim  steak  free  from  fat  and  gristle,  cut  into  cubes 
the  size  of  an  t,%^,  roll  them  in  flour.  Place  a  stew  pan 
over  the  fire  and  put  into  it  the  drippings,  and  when  hot 
turn  in  the  meat  and  brown,  do  not  allow  it  to  stew. 

Then  add  the  onion,  garlic,  pimento  and  pepper. 
Saute  a  few  moments. 

Turn  in  the  tomatoes  and  cook  slowly  until  the  meat 
is  tender.  Then  add  the  Creole  seasoning  and  salt  to 
taste.  Add  the  kidney  beans  so  as  to  have  them  heated 
through,  but  do  not  cook  the  beans  or  they  will  become 
mushy. 

Place  the  cooked  rice  or  spaghetti  in  border  on  one 
side  of  the  serving  platter.    Dish  the  chili. 

206 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Garnish  the  rice  with  rings  of  pimento.  Spaghetti 
may  be  substituted  for  the  kidney  beans.  When 
spaghetti,  egg  noodles,  or  any  of  the  Italian  pastes  take 
the  place  of  the  kidney  beans,  the  rice  may  be  omitted. 
Mutton,  veal  or  fresh  pork  which  is  not  too  fat  may  be 
used  in  preference  to  the  beef. 


207 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

SAUCES  FOR  MEAT  AND  FISH 

MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  AND  GRAVIES 

Meats  and  fish  require  sauces  and  gravies  to  con- 
form to  their  variety. 

With  beef  and  mutton  we  desire  a  gravy  that  has  a 
strong  flavor  of  the  meat,  which  is  distinctive.  With 
fowl  and  with  veal  we  require  milk  in  most  cases  in 
making  the  gravies  complete. 

Fish  as  a  rule  are  served  with  a  sauce  containing  no 
fishy  flavor  and  are  more  often  made  with  a  "soupcon" 
of  acid,  either  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

A  cream  sauce  or  "roux"  is  the  base  for  the  fish 
sauces.  For  the  city  dweller  it  will  be  found  that  the 
unsweetened  evaporated  milks  are  most  excellent,  and 
many  who  can  conveniently  provide  themselves  with  the 
fresh  cows'  milk,  prefer  a  good  brand  of  the  canned 
article,  for  their  cream  sauces  and  cream  soups  or 
purees. 

Cream  sauces  are  made  in  four  different  ways,  any 
one  of  which  may  be  used  to  suit  the  occasion.  In  two 
of  the  methods  butterine  or  butter  and  flour  are  used  in 
equal  quantities,  and  creamed  before  adding  to  the  hot 
milk,  or  adding  the  milk  to  the  butter  and  flour. 

In  the  third  method  the  butter  or  margarine  may 
be  omitted  or  half  the  usual  quantity  taken. 

The  other  sauce,  accompaniment  for  meat,  or  in  un- 
usual cases,  for  fish,  has  for  its  base  the  "Espagnole" 
or  brown  sauce,  a  grand  stock  sauce. 

At  best,  where  a  quantity  of  gravy  is  desired  and  the 
juices  of  the  meat  are  properly  conserved  in  cooking, 
there  is  not  enough  of  the  natural  juices  to  properly 
season  any  ordinary  quantity  of  gravy.    To  assist  this 

209 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

we  use  caramelized  sugar,  an  expedient  that  had  its 
origin  in  antiquity  but  yet  is  seldom  known  to  the  lay- 
cook. 

Browned  flour  has  been  resorted  to  but  does  not  ful- 
fill the  want. 

CARAMEL 

MATERIALS : 

Y-z  cup  granulated  sugar         Water  to  merely  dissolve 
Yi  cup  hot  water  sugar 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  sugar  with  the  water  to  dissolve  it  in  a 
shallow  steel  or  aluminum  fry  pan  of  small  size  for 
this  quantity  of  sugar.  Cook  to  syrup  and  allow  to 
slowly  brown  a  deep  color  evenly,  to  the  point  of  almost 
burning,  taking  care  to  avoid  burning  and  remember- 
ing also  that  the  syrup  will  continue  to  brown  after  re- 
moval from  the  fire,  due  to  the  heat  of  the  vessel. 

When  cooled  slightly  to  avoid  excessive  bubbling, 
add  the  cup  of  hot  water  and  return  to  gentle  heat  until 
syrup  is  dissolved. 

It  is  then  ready  for  immediate  use  or  may  be  placed 
in  a  wide  necked  bottle. 

This  caramel  is  used  for  both  flavor  and  color  for 
sauces,  gravies,  soups,  custards,  whipped  creams  and 
ices. 

SUBSTITUTE    CAPER   SAUCE 

An  excellent  substitute  for  capers  and  an  easily 
prepared  relish  may  be  made  by  cutting  small  cucumber 
pickles  into  tiny  cubes,  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  stirring 
into  hot  drawn  butter. 

Eat  with  fish  or  chops. 

210 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 


SAUCE  TARTARE 

This  is  made  by  adding  two  olives,  one  gherkin, 
one  tablespoon  capers,  and  one  of  parsley  chopped  fine, 
to  half  a  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 


MINT   SAUCE 

Pick  the  leaves  from  a  well-cleaned  bunch  of  mint. 
Chop  very  fine  and  pour  over  them  one-quarter  cup  boil- 
ing water.  Add  two  teaspoons  (level)  of  sugar,  cover 
closely,  and  let  stand  in  cool  place  one-half  an  hour. 
Then  add  a  dash  of  paprika,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt 
and  three  tablespoons  vinegar. 


ESPAGNOLE— Brown  Sauce 

The  base  for  the  Espagnole  may  be  furnished  by  the 
meat  in  preparation.  For  instance,  with  any  roast  the 
flour  may  be  mixed  in  the  pan  containing  the  drippings, 
and  the  liquor  from  the  meat  may  be  used,  or  water  in 
case  there  is  no  such  liquor.  Then  add,  with  other  sea- 
soning, enough  of  the  caramel,  see  page  210,  for  sea- 
soning and  color. 

An  excellent  seasoning  is  given  any  gravy  or  sauce, 
by  sauteing  a  few  thin  slices  of  onion  or  green  pepper 
in  a  little  oil  or  butter  and  then  adding  the  flour  and 
other  materials  and  seasonings. 

ROE  SAUCE 
MATERIALS: 

1     set  shad  roe  ^  teaspoon  ground  mace 

Yi.  cup  butter  or  drippings     6     tablespoons  madeira 
1     teaspoon  onion  juice  Salt  to  season 

211 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Separate  the  roe,  and  drop  into  boiling  hot  salted 
water  for  one-half  hour  and  keep  just  below  the  bubbling 
point.  Drain  and  remove  the  membrane  carefully.  Put 
the  butter  and  roe  into  a  double  cooker  with  the  other 
ingredients.    Stand  over  small  flame  until  well  blended. 

Serve  in  hot  sauce  boat. 

BROWN    CARAMEL   SAUCE 
WITH   MUSHROOMS 
MATERIALS: 

Yi  pound  mushrooms  1  pint  boiling  water 

1     tablespoon  granulated       2  level  tablespoons  flour 
sugar  Salt  and  pepper 

PREPARATION: 

Clean  and  prepare  the  mushrooms  by  slicing  about 
one-quarter  inch  thick.  Saute  in  the  butter,  or  better 
in  olive  oil.  Into  another  saucepan  throw  the  granu- 
lated sugar  and  place  where  it  will  caramelize,  adding 
one  pint  boiling  water.  Stir  into  the  mushrooms  the 
flour  and  add  the  boiling  caramel.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Pour  over  and  around  a  steak  on  a  warm  platter. 
Garnish  with  rounds  of  green  peppers  or  minced 
parsley. 

HORSERADISH   SAUCE— No.  1 

MATERIALS: 

Yz,  cup  horseradish  Yolk  of  1  egg 

Yi  cup  thick  cream  Salt 

1    tablespoon  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice 
PREPARATION : 

Add  the  salt  and  egg  to  the  horseradish  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Whip  the  cream  stiff  and  add  it  to  the 
horseradish  carefully,  add  gradually  the  vinegar  and 
send  at  once  to  the  table. 

812 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

If  the  horseradish  is  in  vinegar,  simply  press  it  per- 
fectly dry,  add  the  egg  and  salt,  mix  and  fold  in  at  the 
last  the  whipped  cream,  omitting  of  course,  the  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar. 

HORSERADISH   SAUCE— No.  2 
MATERIALS : 

1  cup  milk  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter 

1  heaping  tablespoon  flour     2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  horseradish 
PREPARATION : 

Put  the  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  cream  the  butter 
and  flour  and  stir  into  the  milk.  Cook  till  thick,  then 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  the  horseradish.  This  is  very 
quickly  and  easily  prepared  and  according  to  this  recipe 
quite  thick.  If  a  more  liquid  sauce  is  desired,  add  boil- 
ing milk  to  make  the  required  consistency. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE~No.  3 
Cream  together  one  heaping  teaspoon  each  of  flour 
and  butter.  Pour  over  three-quarter  cup  of  hot  water. 
Cook  till  creamy  and  add  one-half  cup  prepared  horse- 
radish or  heaping  tablespoon  freshly  grated  horseradish 
and  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

APPLE   SAUCE   WITH   HORSERADISH 

(A  Relish  with  Roast  Pork) 
Many  do  not  know  that  a  well  made  sauce  of  dried 
apples  is  often  preferred  to  the  sauce  of  fresh  apples  as 
a  relish  to  roast  pork,  duck  or  goose,  also  that  a  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  horseradish  drained  from  the  vinegar 
and  added  to  one  cup  of  either  kind  of  apple  sauce  will 
give  a  decided  relish  that  is  good. 

GOLDEN   ROD   SAUCE 
(To  serve  with  Creamed  Dried  Beef) 
MATERIALS : 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1  tablespoon  flour  Salt  and  paprika 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice       1  pint  milk 

213 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  hot  add  the 
creamed  butter  and  flour.  When  thoroughly  cooked 
add  the  lemon  juice,  salt  and  paprika. 

Put  the  eggs  through  a  ricer  or  food  chopper, 
whites  first  and  then  the  yolks.  Stir  the  whites  into 
the  cream  sauce.  Then  dispose  of  the  egg  yolks  over  the 
surface  in  combination  with  minced  parsley. 

Serve  as  an  entree,  or  luncheon  or  supper  dish. 

LEMON  EGG  SAUCE 
MATERIALS : 

Cream  sauce  3  eggs 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

PREPARATION: 

Make  a  sauce  as  directed  for  cream  sauce  No.  1,  add- 
ing pepper  to  season  and  juice  of  lemon.  Drop  hard 
boiled  eggs  into  cold  water.  Take  from  the  shells, 
separate  whites  from  yolks  and  either  mince  fine  or  put 
through  a  ricer. 

This  is  a  favorite  sauce  for  serving  with  salmon, 
halibut,  cod,  mackerel  and  occasionally  with  finnan 
haddie  (haddock). 

FISH  SAUCE 
MATERIALS : 

2     egg  yolks  Juice  of  %  lemon 

%  cup  hot  water  2  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1     tablespoon  minced  2  tablespoons    chopped 

parsley  pickles 

1     tablespoon  capers  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  egg  yolks,  add  the  oil,  lemon  juice  and  hot 
water.  Put  into  double  cooker  and  cook  till  creamy. 
Do  not  allow  to  cook  too  long  as  the  egg  will  curdle. 
Add  the  seasoning  and  some  mustard  if  desired.  Then 
add  the  other  materials. 

Dish  into  small  sauce  boat  and  serve  with  fish. 

214 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CREOLE  SAUCES 

There  is  a  wide  latitude  in  the  making  of  Creole 
sauces.  The  popular  conception  of  a  sauce  Creole  seems 
to  be  a  sauce,  the  predominating  feature  of  which  is 
pepper  and  resembling  our  tomato  sauces,  but  with  a 
much  higher  flavor  and  seasoning. 

But  there  are  Creole  sauces  made  with  the  juice  of 
oranges  and  lemons  and  seasoned  with  pepper,  parsley, 
etc. 

In  the  making  of  the  former  sauce,  different  peppers 
are  used,  the  chili  (pronounced  shee-lee)  pepper  is  the 
proper  one  to  use,  as  it  has  a  distinctive  property  of 
seasoning  without  the  intense  burning  sensation. 
Many,  particularly  those  who  cater  to  the  public,  think 
a  Creole  sauce  should  be  seasoned  so  highly  that  it  will 
destroy  all  sense  of  flavor,  but  this  should  be  avoided, 
both  from  a  dietetic  and  gastronomic  viewpoint. 

Chili  con  carne,  for  instance,  as  served  in  public 
places,  is  seasoned  so  heavily  with  cayenne  or  paprika 
as  to  destroy  all  flavor  of  the  other  ingredients,  thus 
depriving  the  dish  of  its  most  inviting  quality. 

Tomatoes,  garlic,  chili  peppers,  Creole  seasoning 
and  onion  form  the  base  of  most  Creole  sauces,  the 
proportions  and  ingredients  varying  according  to  in- 
dividual tastes  and  materials  on  hand. 

Creole  seasoning  is  a  preparation  of  New  Orleans 
origin  and  is  put  up  in  powdered  form. 

Chili  peppers  may  be  obtained  in  cans  under  the 
Spanish  name  of  pimientoes  and  these  cans  are  in  two 
sizes,  usually  at  a  shilling  for  the  small  and  twenty-five 
cents  for  the  larger  size.  These  pimientoes  are  more 
convenient  for  the  housewife,  as  they  are  ready  for 
use. 

The  dried  chili  peppers  are  somewhat  hotter  and  are 
a  nuisance  to  prepare  when  pressed  for  time.     Chilis 

215 


THE        CALUMET       COOK        BOOK 

may  be  prepared  in  a  quantity  and  dried  again,  and  are 
more  economical.  The  chili  powder  of  commerce  does 
not  quite  fill  the  place  of  the  home-prepared  chili.  To 
prepare  the  dried  chilis,  stew  them  until  tender  and 
then  rub  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  tough  skin  and 
seeds,  or  drop  into  cold  water  after  stewing  and  then 
cut  in  halves,  removing  the  seed  veins  and  scrape  off 
the  softened  pulp.  When  the  peppers  are  dry  they  do 
not  seem  to  have  very  much  pulp  but  after  cooking 
there  will  be  as  much  as  in  a  medium  tomato. 

Either  an  oil,  olive  or  cotton  seed,  or  a  dripping 
used  to  saute  (fry  in  shallow  fat).  The  onion,  is  the 
first  move  in  the  making  of  a  Creole  sauce,  but  always 
remember  that  to  properly  bring  out  the  right  flavor, 
the  onion,  must  like  the  mushroom,  be  first  sauted. 
Mushrooms  may  be  included  in  a  Creole  sauce,  also 
green  peppers.  Tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned,  are  always 
included.  A  slight  thickening  of  flour  creamed  with 
drippings  or  butter  is  often  desirable.  There,  of  course, 
can  be  no  hard  and  fast  rule  for  this  sauce,  but  follow- 
ing is  a  recipe  in  which  the  proper  formula  is  presented 
and  must  be  adhered  to  through  the  various  changes  of 
individual  preference  or  expediency. 

CREOLE   SAUCE 

MATERIALS: 

1  medium  onion  2  teaspoons  oil  or  butter 

1  clove,  garlic  Bay  leaf,  whole  allspice, 

1  pepper,  red  or  green  mace  or  cloves  for  sea- 

2  cups  tomato  soning 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  butter  in  saucepan,  add  minced  onions  and 
pepper;  saute  five  minutes,  turn  in  the  tomatoes  and 
seasoning  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 

A  sauce  Creole  is  very  seldom  strained  and  various 
combinations  of  seasoning  go  into  its  makeup.     To 

216 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

make  the  dish  more  peppery,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  paprika 
or  tobasco  sauce  may  be  added.  If  mushrooms  are  de- 
sired add  these  whether  bottled  or  fresh  to  the  onions 
and  saute  with  them. 

SAUCE  A  LA   BUCKINGHAM 

Put  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  into  a  double  boiler. 
Cream  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  flour  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  butter,  add  this  to  the  hot  milk  and  cook 
until  thick.  Mince  small  Gherkin  pickles,  one  green 
pepper,  sliced  stuffed  olives  and  some  parsley  and  add 
to  the  cream  sauce.  Lay  some  rounds  of  lettuce  leaves 
on  a  small  platter,  heap  the  sauce  in  the  center.  Stick 
two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley  into  the  mound.  This 
should  be  served  from  the  side  with  fish. 

GREEN    PEPPER    SAUCE 

Select  four  large  peppers,  throw  them  into  boiling 
water,  boil  rapidly  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  remove  the 
thin  skin,  cut  in  halves  and  take  out  the  ends.  Chop 
fine  and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  again, 
slightly  salted.  Cook  till  tender.  Drain  and  press 
through  a  colander,  return  them  to  the  saucepan,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  butter  creamed  with  one-half  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  four  tablespoons  of  cream.  Cook  till 
creamy. 

Use  no  more  water  than  necessary  in  boiling  the 
peppers.  Serve  this  puree  of  pepper  with  any  dishes  of 
fish  or  meat  loaf. 

SAUCE    HOLLANDAISE 

MATERIALS : 

2  tablespoons  butter  1     tablespoon  flour 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

1  bay  leaf  2    tablespoons  tarragon 
1  tablespoon   chopped  vinegar 

onion  Yi  pint  boiling  water 

217 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Put  the  bay  leaf  and  onion  in  the  vinegar,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  cool.  Cream  the  butter  and  flour 
together,  add  gradually  the  water,  stir  until  boiling, 
add  the  vinegar,  strained.  Take  from  the  fire,  stir  in 
gradually  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Heat  very  gently  just 
a  moment,  add  the  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and 
strain  at  once  into  a  sauce  boat. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  elegant  of  the  fish  sauces. 
Lemon  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  vinegar. 

DRAWN    BUTTER,    Unsweetened 

Explanatory: — This  sauce  forms  the  base  for  many 
seasonings  and  is  then  called  by  name  of  the  seasoning 
or  addition. 

MATERIALS : 

1  cup  hot  water  2  level  tablespoons  soft  butter 

2  level  tablespoons  flour  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 
PREPARATION : 

Heat  the  water  in  a  small  saucepan,  cream  the  butter 
and  flour  and  stir  into  the  hot  water  until  creamy.  Add 
seasoning. 

EGG   SAUCE 

This  is  a  Drawn  Butter  with  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
either  sliced  or  chopped  added  to  it  before  serving. 

ENGLISH  DRAWN   BUTTER 

Made  by  replacing  one-quarter  of  the  water  with 
vinegar  and  the  addition  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
just  before  serving. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

This  may  be  Drawn  Butter  with  a  goodly  addition 
of  plain  grated  or  bottled  horseradish. 

218 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 


CHEESE  SAUCE,  To  Serve  with  Fish 

Use  the  Drawn  Butter  recipe  with  a  very  strong 
grated  cheese  and  seasoning  of  paprika. 

DRAWN   BUTTER,   Sweetened 

Explanatory: — When  sweetened  fruit  juices  or 
jelly  are  available  they  may  displace  the  sugar  in  the 
following  recipe.  More  butter  may  also  be  added.  A 
few  thin  slices  of  lemon  are  frequently  added  to  make 
a  LEMON  PUDDING  SAUCE. 

DRAWN   BUTTER,  With  Sugar 
MATERIALS : 

1  cup  water  ^  cup  sugar 

2  level  tablespoons  flour        1     level  tablespoon  butter 

PREPARATION : 

Heat  the  water ;  mix  the  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly. 
Stir  into  the  hot  water  with  the  butter.  Cook  until 
creamy. 

CREAM   SAUCES 

Explanatory: — Cream  sauces  without  sugar  are  the 
base  for  any  wanted  seasoning  which  may  be  added  as 
desired,  such  as  lemon  juice,  peppers,  parsley,  eggs 
cooked  or  uncooked,  fish,  etc.,  and  are  used,  (1st)  for 
soups,  (2nd)  as  accompaniment  for  meats,  fish  and 
vegetable  dishes,  (3rd)  as  a  medium  for  croquettes  and 
timbales.    The  sauces  only  differ  as  to  consistency. 

CREAM  SAUCE,   (No.   1,  Thin) 
MATERIALS: 

1  cup  milk  54  teaspoon  salt 

1  level  tablespoon  butter        1    level  tablespoon  flour 

CREAM   SAUCE,    (No.   2,   Medium) 

MATERIALS: 

1  cup  milk  %    teaspoon  salt 

2  level  tablespoons  butter     2    level  tablespoons  flour 

219 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

CREAM    SAUCE,    (No.    3,   Thick) 

MATERIALS: 

1  cup  milk  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

4  level  tablespoons  butter    4  or  5  level  tablespoons  flour 
PREPARATION : 

There  are  three  ways  of  making  which  apply  to  all 
three  sauces.    The  butter  may  be  omitted  in  No.  1 : 

Method  No.  1: — Mix  the  flour  with  about  half  its 
bulk  of  milk,  beat  smooth  and  add  enough  more  to 
thin  sufficiently  to  add  to  the  hot  milk  without  lumps. 
Heat  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  mixture  with  the  butter 
and  salt.     Cook  until  creamy. 

Method  No.  2: — Warm  the  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
cream  in  the  flour,  add  the  milk  and  cook  until  creamy 
after  adding  salt. 

Method  No.  3: — Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler, 
cream  the  butter  and  flour  thoroughly,  then  stir  into 
the  milk  until  creamy.  Add  the  salt.  As  the  butter  dis- 
solves in  the  hot  milk  the  flour  is  taken  up. 

CREAM    SAUCES,    Sweetened 

Explanatory: — These  sauces  are  the  base  for  a 
variety  of  flavorings  and  combinations,  more  or  less 
flour  or  sweetening  may  be  used  or  the  sugar  may  be 
replaced  by  jelly  or  fruit  juices.  Eggs,  either  yolks  or 
whites,  may  be  added.  There  is  just  one  right  method 
of  cooking. 

CREAM   SAUCE,   With   Sugar 

MATERIALS : 

1  cup  hot  milk  ^  cup  sugar 

2  level  tablespoons  flour         1     level  tablespoon  butter 
PREPARATION  : 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly  and  stir  into  the  hot 

milk,  adding  the  butter.    Cook  until  creamy. 

220 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

SALADS   AND  RELISHES 

"Of  herbs  and  other  country  messes, 
Which  the  neat-handed  Phillis  dresses." 

Instinctively  the  accomplished  hostess  puts  forth  her 
best  effort  in  the  preparation  of  a  salad,  realizing  that 
this  is  the  true  test  of  culinary  competency. 

Before  going  into  the  detail  of  the  work  it  may  be 
well  to  submit  a  dietetic  caution  in  reference  to  salad 
materials  and  the  eating  thereof. 

All  salad  materials  in  the  nature  of  green  vegetables 
must  be  tender  and  fresh  as  possible  to  maintain  their 
digestibility.  Cooked  vegetables,  meats  and  fish  even 
in  small  quantities,  known  as  scraps,  may  be  used,  but 
these  must  not  be  mushy  or  stale.  Then,  too,  remember 
that  when  served  as  a  relish  with  hot  meats,  even 
though  in  a  separate  course,  a  salad  must  be  in  a  mod- 
erate quantity  and  composed  of  the  lighter,  most  di- 
gestible salad  materials.  In  such  instances  salads  are 
intended  to  supply  intestinal  ballast  and  mineral  salts. 
Green  vegetables  are  the  most  valuable  source  from 
which  this  supply  can  be  obtained. 

For  many  salads  the  plain  dressing  of  oil  and  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice  with  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  is 
to  be  preferred,  while  others  are  equally  good  with  the 
plain  dressing  or  the  richer  mayonnaise. 

For  those  who  do  not  like  the  oil  dressing  there  are 
quite  a  number  of  cooked  dressings. 

SALAD    PLANTS 

Explanatory : — The  salad  plants  are  classed  as  ideal 
ballast  in  the  dietary,  supplying  as  they  do  natural 
mineral  salts  and  volatile  oils  which  by  reason  of  form 
in  which  they  are  eaten,  do  not  lose  these  attributes  by 
cooking. 

221 


THE       CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

Salad  Plants  when  so  served  are  much  better  and 
more  appropriately  dressed  with  a  French  dressing  or 
in  some  cases  with  a  whipped  cream  dressing  rather 
than  the  heavier  cooked  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

They  are  kept  fresh  and  become  crisp  by  folding  in 
wet  towel  and  keeping  in  cool  place  or  near  ice.  If 
freshly  pulled  they  should  be  allowed  to  remain  in  wet 
towel  one  hour  more  or  less  before  serving. 

LETTUCE 

One  of  our  most  common  and  universal  salad  greens, 
is  by  the  aid  of  the  hot-house  and  gardeners,  seasonable 
the  year  through. 

Its  principal  use  is  in  salads,  but  it  is  sometimes 
cooked  and  served  like  spinach. 

The  hot-house  and  winter  lettuce  is  more  delicate  in 
flavor  than  that  grown  out-of-doors.  It  is  wholesome, 
cooling  and  palatable. 

It  is  too  delicate  to  serve  with  cooked  or  mayonnaise 
dressing,  and  will  not  remain  fresh  long  after  mixing 
with  any  dressing.  French  is  the  better  dressing  for  it. 
Many  prefer  it  sprinkled  with  salt  and  eaten  plain.  An- 
other favorite  way  of  serving  it  is  with  cream  and  a  little 
sprinkle  of  sugar. 

FRENCH   DRESSING 

It  is  almost  impossible  to  make  a  perfect  emulsion 
of  oil  and  vinegar  without  using  something  for  a  me- 
dium. In  the  mayonnaise  dressing  this  is  accomplished 
by  using  the  yolks  of  eggs.  There  are  salads  where  the 
use  of  a  mayonnaise  seems  out  of  place  and  the  French 
dressing  suits  the  palate. 

Do  not  expect  to  make  an  emulsion,  just  place  the 
ingredients  together  and  mix  and  pour  over  the  greens 
or  salad  vegetables.  Toss  them  with  a  couple  of  forks, 
and  the  oil  will  cling  to  the  vegetables  and  the  surplus 

222 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

vinegar  or  lemon  juice  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the 
dish.  Putting  the  yolk  of  the  egg  with  the  French 
dressing  is  an  expedient  to  hold  the  vinegar  and  oil  in 
emulsion,  but  may  not  always  be  advisable.  There  is 
no  hard  and  fast  rule  for  the  making  of  French  dressing. 
The  only  definite  rule  is  that  whenever  the  oil  floats,  too 
much  vinegar  has  been  added.  This  is  one  of  the  rules 
that  is  proven  more  in  the  exception  than  in  the  observ- 
ance. 

At  best  six  tablespoons  of  oil  will  require  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  but  one-half  as  much  vinegar  as 
oil  is  used  frequently  by  many  of  the  most  particular  of 
diners. 

METHOD : — The  materials  may  be  put  together  in 
a  bottle,  a  patent  stoppered  bottle  is  very  convenient 
for  this  purpose,  as  it  is  easily  cleaned,  and  can  be  placed 
in  the  ice  chamber  of  the  refrigerator  without  fear  of 
spilling  its  contents.  Put  the  materials  together,  any 
time  before  serving,  to  chill  and  when  salad  is  ready  to 
serve,  shake  well  and  pour  over  the  salad. 

If  a  "chaud-froid"  (hot  and  cold)  salad,  such  as  the 
asparagus  or  hot  greens,  is  desired,  add  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  uncooked,  to  the  materials  in  the  bottle  and  the 
separation  of  the  oil  from  the  vinegar  will  not  take  place 
when  poured  into  the  heated  dish. 

Worcestershire,  Harvey,  Walnut,  anchovy  or  to- 
basco  sauce  may  be  used  to  season  a  French  dressing. 
Or  an  aromatic  vinegar  may  be  used  instead  of  the  plain. 
Onion  juice  or  tomato  catsup  is  equally  in  favor  as  sea- 
soning. 

Rubbing  the  salad  dish  with  a  cut  clove  of  garlic  is 
a  popular  seasoning. 

Do  not,  of  course,  use  more  than  two  of  these  differ- 
ent seasonings  together,  and  they  may  all  be  omitted. 

Many  epicures  prefer  the  plain  French  dressing,  and 
insist  upon  mixing  it  at  the  table. 

223 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

The  epicure  mixes  the  salad  and  dressing  by  de- 
grees. To  do  this  easily,  sprinkle  over  the  salad  the 
pepper,  salt  and  any  other  seasoning.  Pour  over  the 
desired  quantity  of  oil.  Toss  and  turn  until  each  leaf  is 
seasoned.  Then  pour  over  the  desired  quantity  of  vine- 
gar and  toss  again  until  the  whole  is  evenly  distributed. 

In  preparing  the  salad  for  each  diner,  cut  the  lettuce 
v^rith  shears  and  have  everything  in  readiness. 

For  family  use  the  housewife  puts  the  salad  and 
dressing  all  together  and  serves  it  complete.  By  a  con- 
stant change  of  seasonings  a  variety  of  salads  may  be 
made  up  of  the  same  materials. 

Salads  should  hold  a  prominent  place  in  the  daily 
menu. 

The  green  vegetables  contain  the  salts  necessary  to 
the  well  being  of  our  systems.  The  oil  contributes  to  the 
heat  of  the  body  and  a  small  amount  of  acid  aids  in  the 
digestion  of  other  foods  and  lends  zest  to  the  meal. 

SEASONED  FRENCH  DRESSING 
MATERIALS: 

"%,  cup  of  olive  oil  1     teaspoon  powdered  sugar 

4    tablespoons  of  vinegar       1     tablespoon  chopped  onion 

1  tablespoon  chopped  2     tablespoons  rings  of  green 

parsley  onion  tops 

2  tablespoons  chopped  1     teaspoon  salt 

green  pepper  Y^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

3     drops  tobasco 
PREPARATION : 

Mix  these  ingredients  and  let  stand  an  hour  before 
using.  Mix  again  before  pouring  it  over  the  salad  mate- 
rials. 

GERMAN  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

MATERIALS: 

1     teaspoon  sugar  Yq,  cup  vinegar 

Yz  teaspoon  of  white  ^  cup  very  rich  sweet  cream 

pepper  (Sour  cream  is  preferred  by 

1     teaspoon  of  salt  many) 

224 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  cream  and  stir 
until  dissolved,  then  add  the  vinegar,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Never  add  the  salad  dressing  until  just  before 
serving.  It  is  well  to  press  gently  between  a  towel  or 
napkin  all  greens  which  have  been  chilled  in  ice  water, 
that  they  may  be  perfectly  dry  before  adding  the  dress- 
ing. When  the  salad  dressing  is  poured  over  the  wet 
salad  leaves,  it  is  diluted,  and  the  greater  part  falls  to 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  a  watery,  insipid  mixture. 

Evaporated  milk  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  cream 
in  this  dressing.  Use  one-third  as  much  vinegar  as 
evaporated  milk. 

SOUR    CREAM    SALAD    DRESSING 

One  cupful  of  thick  sour  cream,  one  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  three  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
one  of  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste,  mix  all  to- 
gether thoroughly. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

MATERIALS : 

2  egg  yolks,  uncooked  Vinegar 

2  egg  yolks,  cooked  Lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  of  sugar  Yz  pint  olive  oil 

1  teaspoon  white  pepper  1     teaspoon  mustard  if 

1  teaspoon  salt  desired 

PREPARATION  : 

The  easiest  and  quickest  method  of  mixing  this 
dressing  is  to  set  a  narrow,  deep  bowl  into  a  butter  jar 
containing  some  chipped  ice.  Have  the  oil  and  vinegar 
chilled.  For  mixing,  use  the  medium  size  rotary  egg 
beater.  With  a  fork  break  up  the  yolks  of  the  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  make  a  paste  of  them  with  the  uncooked 
yolks,  add  the  seasoning,  or  not  as  you  wish,  at  this 
time.    Put  the  rotary  beater  into  the  bowl,  pour  in  a 

225 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

couple  of  teaspoons  of  oil  and  begin  using  the  beater, 
adding  a  little  oil  at  a  time.  When  very  thick  and 
shiny  add  a  little  of  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  then 
more  oil  and  vinegar  until  the  mixture  is  stiff.  Just  be- 
fore time  to  serve,  the  mayonnaise  may  be  improved  by 
the  addition  of  one-half  cupful  of  whipped  cream  or 
the  very  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg. 

THOUSAND    ISLAND    DRESSING 

The  Thousand  Island  Dressing  is  made  up  of  ma- 
terials of  food  value,  containing  as  it  does — fat  and 
protein,  and  served  with  fresh  green  vegetables  or 
grape  fruit  with  plain  bread  or  rolls  and  butter,  makes 
a  complete  meal  of  digestive  and  nutritive  value. 
MATERIALS : 

1  cupful  Mayonnaise  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  minced 

dressing  fine 

3  tablespoonfuls  tomato         3  tablespoonfuls  chopped 

sauce  canned  pimentoes 

1  minced  green  pepper  3  minced  gherkin  pickles 

Capers  and  the  tiny  pearl  onions  may  be  added  or 
substituted  for  the  pickles. 
PREPARATION: 

Mix   all   of   these   materials   together.    Chill   well 
before  serving. 

Delicious  to  serve  with  plain  head  lettuce  or  crisped 
shredded  cabbage. 

COOKED   SALAD   DRESSING— No.  1 
MATERIALS : 

1     level  teaspoon  arrow  3     level  teaspoons  butter  or 

root  or  cornstarch  oil 

1     heaped  teaspoon  corn-       2    level  teaspoons  sugar 

starch  2     eggs 

y^  cup  water  K  c^P  whipped  cream 

Yz  cup  vinegar 
PREPARATION: 

There  are  occasions  to  use  a  cooked  dressing  that 
is  very  dainty  and  more  easily  prepared  and  is  particu- 

226 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

larly  nice  for  a  fruit  salad.  This  is  free  from  mustard 
or  seasoning  of  any  sort,  except  salt,  and  can  be  con- 
verted into  any  kind  of  dressing  preferred. 

Mix  a  level  teaspoon  of  arrowroot  or  a  well  rounded 
teaspoon  of  cornstarch  with  just  enough  cold  water  to 
dissolve. 

Put  one-half  cup  of  water  and  one-fourth  cup  of 
vinegar  into  the  double  cooker  with  a  dash  of  salt  and 
three  level  tablespoons  of  butter  or  olive  oil  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  the 
arrowroot.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  beat  in 
with  the  rotary  egg  beater  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of 
one  egg. 

Set  away  to  chill  thoroughly  and  then,  just  before 
serving,  beat  in  one-half  cup  of  whipped  cream  or  the 
other  egg  white  stiffly  beaten. 

COOKED   SALAD   DRESSING— No.  2 
MATERIALS : 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  1     teaspoon  of  mustard 

1     tablespoon  of  sugar  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper 

3    level  tablespoons  of  1    teaspoon  butter 

flour  1     cup  of  hot  milk 

14.  teaspoon  of  salt  %  cup  of  vinegar 

PREPARATION: 

Put  the  milk  into  the  double  boiler,  mix  the  dry  ma- 
terials with  the  egg  yolks  and  a  little  cold  milk  and  add 
to  the  hot  milk.  When  cooked,  beat  it  well  with  a  ro- 
tary beater,  adding  the  boiling  vinegar.  Put  away  to 
cool  and  just  before  serving  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs  or  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

COOKED   SALAD   DRESSING— No.  3 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  one-half  cup  of 
melted  butter,  add  one  cup  of  milk  or  cream  and  boil 
and  beat  until  smooth.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
well,  mix  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  with  just  enough 

227 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

vinegar  to  make  it  smooth  and  add  to  beaten  yolks,  then 
stir  in  the  balance  of  vinegar.  Mix  the  cold  mixture 
with  the  hot  and  boil  up  once,  stirring  constantly.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  carefully  fold  in. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  kept  in  a  cool  place 
this  will  keep  a  long  time. 

GERMAN    POTATO    SALAD 
MATERIALS : 

Boiled  potatoes  Parsley 

Lettuce  Thin  strips  of  bacon 

Green  peppers  Minced  onion 

Seasoning  Salad  dressing 

PREPARATION: 

Boil  the  desired  quantity  of  potatoes  with  the  jackets 
on ;  do  not  over  cook.  Remove  the  skins  and  chill.  Cut 
the  green  peppers  into  rounds  after  removing  the  seeds. 
Place  the  bacon  in  a  shallow  pan  under  the  broiler  fire 
and  quickly  brown  or  crisp,  then  cut  into  small  bits. 
Dice  the  potatoes  and  chill.  Place  the  potatoes  in  a 
large  crock  or  bowl  and  the  peppers,  onion,  minced 
parsley,  bacon,  and  pour  over  carefully  a  German  cream 
salad  dressing. 

Serve  on  rounds  of  lettuce  leaves. 

SPANISH  SALAD 
Chop  separately  and  very  fine  four  large  cucumbers, 
four  large  firm  tomatoes,  one  bunch  of  crisp  celery,  the 
crisp  centers  of  two  heads  of  head  lettuce,  and  three 
green  chili  peppers.  Mix  all  together,  add  one  table- 
spoon of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  two  or  three  drops  of  tobasco,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.    Chill  until  ready  to  serve. 

COMBINATION   SALAD 
Tomatoes  for  salad  are  much  better  pared  without 
first  scalding.    This  can  easily  be  accomplished  with  a 
sharp  knife.    Do  not  on  any  account  slice  the  tomatoes, 

228 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

unless  in  very  thick  slices.  There  is  nothing  much  more 
discouraging  than  to  try  to  convey  to  the  mouth  thinly 
sliced  tomato.  Cut  the  tomatoes  into  quarters  or 
eighths,  according  to  their  size,  from  stem  to  blossom 
end,  and  then  once  crosswise.  Cucumbers  may  be  sliced 
or  cut  into  small  cubes.  Do  not  make  the  ancient  mis- 
take of  putting  them  to  chill  and  soak  in  salted  water, 
as  the  salt  renders  the  cellulose  fiber  of  the  vegetable 
tough  and  less  palatable  or  digestible.  Put  some  head 
lettuce  in  ice  water  to  chill  and  crisp,  or  place  it  in  the 
fold  of  a  wet  towel  and  lay  in  the  ice  chamber  of  the 
refrigerator. 

For  this  salad  the  most  appropriate  dressing  is  the 
French.  A  convenient  way  of  preparing  this  is  to  put 
the  olive  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  a  dash  of  tobasco 
and  sugar  if  desired,  into  a  bottle  and  place  in  the  re- 
frigerator until  just  before  serving,  when  it  can  be 
taken  out  and  shaken  well  to  form  an  emulsion  of  the 
vinegar  and  oil.  By  doing  this  there  is  no  unnecessary 
hurry  at  the  last  moment.  Have  the  bowl  well  chilled 
from  which  the  salad  is  to  be  served.  Combine  the  ma- 
terials, cutting  the  lettuce  with  shears.  Pour  over  the 
dressing  and  toss  all  together  with  a  salad  fork  and 
spoon,  or  with  a  couple  of  forks.  Green  peppers  may 
be  added. 

SPINACH  AND  EGG  SALAD 

Wash  and  cleanse  the  spinach  until  it  is  entirely 
free  from  grit.  Place  in  a  tightly  covered  vessel,  season 
with  salt,  and  allow  to  cook  tender  in  its  own  liquor. 
Press  into  a  bowl  when  tender  and  put  away  in  the  re- 
frigerator to  chill.  Hard  boil  two  eggs,  separate  the 
whites  from  the  yolks  by  cutting  the  white  lengthwise 
into  quarters.  Mash  and  mix  the  yolks  with  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  the  mayonnaise  dressing.  Turn  the  mold 
of  spinach  into  the  salad  bowl.    Heap  the  yolks  on  the 

229 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

top,  arrange  the  sections  of  egg  whites  around  it.  Then 
circle  the  base  of  the  spinach  with  the  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. 

A   SAINT  PATRICK   SALAD 

Select  three  perfect  heads  of  head  lettuce,  remove 
the  withered  outside  leaves.  Open  up  the  heads,  very 
carefully,  removing  the  center  leaves,  thus  making  a 
perfect  cup.  Throw  them  all  into  the  ice  water  to  chill 
and  crisp. 

Make  a  mayonnaise  and  color  green  by  adding  the 
following : 

Chop  very  fine  sufficient  parsley  to  make  one  table- 
spoon. Put  it  into  a  bowl  and  rub  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  paste.  During  the  rubbing 
add  four  or  five  drops  of  alcohol.  Stir  this  into  the 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Cut  into  dice  two  medium  sized  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
mince  small  onion  fine  and  toss  in  with  the  potatoes,  cut 
fine  a  couple  of  sweet  green  peppers  after  removing  the 
seeds.  Sprinkle  the  potatoes,  onions  and  peppers  with 
a  little  vinegar  and  salt.  Just  before  serving  take  the 
lettuce  from  the  ice  water,  dry  carefully  on  a  soft  towel, 
arranging  the  three  heads  in  a  salad  bowl.  Shred  with 
the  shears  the  tender  inside  leaves  and  add  to  the  other 
vegetables.  Mix  with  the  green  mayonnaise  and  fill 
the  green  cups  with  the  mixture. 

This  is  a  very  effective  green  salad  to  serve  at  any 
time. 

TOMATO  en  TULIP 

Select  uniform  medium  tomatoes,  scald  them  to  re- 
move skin  and  chill. 

Divide  the  shell  into  eighths  almost  to  the  stem 
end,  draw  these  sections  back  from  the  center  pulp. 
Place  the  tomatoes  on  round  of  lettuce  and  fill  each 
center  with  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

i230 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CHICORY  AND  TOMATO  SALAD 

WITH  MUSHROOMS 
MATERIALS : 

1  head  of  chicory  ^  cup  of  olive  oil 

3  firm  ripe  tomatoes  3     tablespoons  vinegar 

1  sweet  green  pepper  1     scant  teaspoon  salt 

2  medium  mushrooms,  1     scant  teaspoon  sugar 

diced  Dash  of  pepper 

PREPARATION : 

Clean  and  lay  the  chicory  in  cold  water  to  crisp. 
Then  line  the  salad  dish  with  some  of  the  darker  green 
leaves.  Dry  the  balance  in  a  towel  and  cut  in  inch  pieces 
with  the  shears. 

Cut  the  tomatoes,  after  peeling,  in  about  eighths,  by 
cutting  in  halves  across  and  then  cutting  into  quarters 
the  other  way.  Take  out  the  seed  centers  from  the  pep- 
pers and  cut  into  rings. 

Add  the  diced  mushrooms.  Toss  all  of  the  salad  ma- 
terials together  lightly  and  pour  over  the  dressing  made 
by  mixing  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  oil  together  and 
then  stirring  in  the  vinegar. 

Transfer  to  the  salad  bowl. 

CHICKEN    SALAD 

An  old  fowl  may  be  used  for  salad.  Clean  and  pre- 
pare the  fowl  for  stewing,  but  do  not  separate  at  the 
joints;  after  having  singed  the  fowl  split  it  open  down 
the  back,  it  is  then  so  much  more  easily  cleaned.  If  the 
fowl  is  old  put  a  little  vinegar  into  the  water  in  which 
it  is  to  be  cooked  and  keep  the  water  just  below  the 
boiling  point.  A  bay  leaf  or  two  will  improve  the 
flavor  of  the  meat  for  some.  The  meat  of  the  chicken 
must  be  freed  from  skin  and  bones  and  if  you  desire 
a  white  salad  do  not  use  anything  but  the  breast  meat. 
Cut  this  up  into  small  dice.  Mince  fine  one  green  pep- 
per. Put  the  two  ingredients  together  and  marinate 
with  three  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  and  one  of  lemon 

231 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

juice  well  mixed.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place  for  a  couple 
of  hours. 

Cut  well  crisp  celery  into  very  small  pieces.  If  the 
flavor  of  onion  is  desired  cut  up  a  Bermuda  onion  very 
fine.  Mix  all  of  the  ingredients  together  and  add  either 
a  mayonnaise  or  cooked  salad  dressing.  Do  not  have 
the  mixture  sloppy  or  soft,  turn  into  a  deep  bowl  or 
vegetable  dish  to  mold  for  a  minute,  then  turn  into  a 
salad  bowl  lined  with  rounds  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Garnish  the  mound  of  salad  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
green  peppers  sliced  crosswise. 

GREEN   PEPPER   SALAD   HOLDERS 

A  nice  way  to  put  salads  in  a  lunch  box  is  to  use 
green  sweet  peppers.  Remove  the  seeds  after  cutting 
off  the  small  end  of  each  pepper  and  stuff  them  with  the 
salad. 

STUFFED   PEPPERS 
MATERIALS : 

6  large  sweet  peppers  1     teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  finely  chopped  1     tablespoon  butter 

cooked  meat  1     saltspoon  pepper 

1  good  sized  onion  ^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  peppers  into  halves,  crosswise,  remove  the 
seeds  and  cut  off  the  stem,  wash  them  in  cold  water. 
Mix  the  meat,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  half  of 
the  onion  grated.  Stuff  this  into  the  peppers,  stand 
them  in  a  baking  pan,  put  into  the  pan  the  remaining 
onion,  sliced,  the  butter  and  a  half  pint  of  water  or 
stock.  Bake  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting 
the  outside  of  the  peppers  every  ten  minutes.  Serve  as 
a  luncheon  or  supper  dish  or  as  an  entree  at  dinner. 

PICKLED   PARSLEY    (Rorer) 

Select  perfect  curly  heads  of  parsley.  Wash 
thoroughly  in  salt  water,  drain  and  shake  dry.    Put  into 

232 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

glass  jars  of  cold  vinegar;  to  each  quart  allow  one 
tablespoon  chopped  horseradish.  Cover  and  stand 
away  for  use. 

This  is  especially  nice  for  garnishing  when  parsley 
is  out  of  season. 

SPINACH    BLOCKS 


MATERIALS : 

Spinach 

Drop  of  tobasco 

1  egg 
Salt 

PREPARATION : 

After  thoroughly  cleaning,  cook  the  spinach  with- 
out other  water  than  clings  to  the  leaves. 

Cook  in  covered  vessel  over  moderate  heat,  drain 
and  chop  very  fine,  drain  again,  mash  and  mix  with  the 
beaten  eggy  tobasco  and  salt. 

Put  into  shallow  dish  and  put  this  dish  into  another 
of  hot  water.  Set  in  the  oven  till  well  set.  Cut  into  de- 
sired shapes  and  serve. 

Made  with  a  dash  of  lemon,  these  are  nice  to  serve 
with  a  fish  course. 

CABBAGE    SALAD 

Take  the  tender  white  center  from  a  head  of  cab- 
bage.   Shred  fine  and  crisp  in  ice  water. 

Make  a  cooked  dressing  of  three  eggs,  three  table- 
spoons of  butter,  five  of  tarragon,  one  teaspoon  of 
grated  horseradish  and  the  same  amount  of  mixed 
mustard  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt. 

Cook  over  hot  water  until  creamy,  when  cold  add 
an  equal  amount  of  whipped  cream  and  stir  into  one 
pint  of  the  shredded  cabbage  after  folding  it  in  a  napkin 
to  take  away  the  surplus  moisture.  To  this  add  a  cup 
of  pickled  beets. 

Fill  the  cabbage  shell  and  garnish  with  celery  plumes 
and  rings  of  beets. 

233 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

STUFFED  CELERY— A  Relish 

MATERIALS : 

1  dozen  stalks  celery  1  red  pimiento 

54  pound  cheese  Salad  dressing  or  thick  corn 

Yz  teaspoon  curry  powder         cream 

2  egg  yolks,  hard  boiled        Salt  and  paprika  to   season 

PREPARATION: 

Cleanse  and  lay  the  celery  in  a  wet  towel  on  the  ice 
for  an  hour  or  more  to  chill  and  crisp.  Make  a  soft  mix- 
ture of  all  of  the  materials.  If  some  cream  is  used  in- 
stead of  salad  dressing,  the  mixture  will  require  a  little 
more  seasoning. 

Wipe  each  stalk  dry  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 
Sprinkle  with  paprika  when  filled. 

The  stalks  should  then  be  cut  into  finger  lengths 
and  placed  on  cracked  ice  to  serve.  If  prepared  in  ad- 
vance of  the  meal,  return  after  filling  to  the  refrigera- 
tor without  the  cracked  ice. 

Do  not  cut  away  the  small  fresh  leaves  at  the  end 
of  the  inside  stalks  as  they  add  to  the  appearance  of  the 
dish. 

For  a  picnic  or  basket  lunch  place  two  stalks  with 
fillings  together  and  roll  each  two  in  wax  paper.  If 
no  ice  is  carried  with  the  lunch  an  ice  bag  may  be  filled 
and  wrapped  in  a  towel  and  laid  over  them. 

MINT  VEGETABLE  SALAD 

One  package  of  mint  (or  lemon)  Tryphosa,  three- 
fourths  pint  boiling  water,  one  teacup  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoon dry  mustard,  one  teaspoon  celery  salt;  when  be- 
ginning to  congeal  add  following  vegetables  chopped 
fine: 

1     onion  (J/i  cup  minced  chicken  can 

3  pimentoes  be  added  also  if  desired) 

1     green  pepper  Add  to  mint  jelly  and  congeal 

Yz  cup  shredded  cabbage        Serve  with  dressing  or  cold 

meats 
234 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


CABBAGE  AND   BEET  RELISH 


MATERIALS : 


quart  raw  cabbage, 

chopped 
quart  cooked  red  beets, 

chopped 
quart  vinegar 
cups  sugar 


1  cup  horseradish,  grated 

2  level  tablespoons  salt 
1     level  teaspoon  black 

pepper 
54  level  teaspoon  cayenne 
pepper 


PREPARATION: 

Heat  the  vinegar,  add  to  it  the  sugar,  salt  and  pep- 
pers. 

Toss  the  beets,  cabbage  and  horseradish  together 
in  large  bowl.  Fill  quart  or  two  quart  mason  jars  and 
pour  over  the  hot  vinegar. 

This  keeps  perfectly  without  sealing  and  is  a  relish 
out  of  the  ordinary. 

FRUIT   SALAD 
MATERIALS: 

1  cup  of  Malaga  grapes         3  oranges 
1  cup  of  walnuts  or  2  bananas 

pecans  Gelatin 

1  cup  of  celery  cut  in 
short  pieces 

PREPARATION: 

Seed  the  grapes  and  set  on  ice  while  preparing  the 
rest.  Dissolve  one-half  package  of  any  of  the  acidulated 
gelatines  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  adding  the  juice 
of  oranges. 

Peel  the  oranges  and  divide  into  lobes,  free  these 
from  pith  and  seeds  and  cut  each  piece  in  two  pieces. 

Remove  large  section  lengthwise  from  the  covering 
of  bananas,  draw  a  silver  knife  the  length  of  the  fruit, 
cutting  it  in  two  without  removing  from  the  covering. 
Cut  into  sections  about  one-half  inch,  add  this  to  the 
oranges,  also  the  celery,  grapes  and  the  nuts  which  have 
been  cut  in  small  pieces  but  not  chopped.  Add  the  dis- 
solved gelatin  which  should  be  cold  but  not  stiff. 

235 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Line  a  salad  bowl  with  fresh  crisp  leaves  of  head 
lettuce.  Mayonnaise  dressing  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  gelatin,  but  the  thought  of  mixing  it  with  fruit  is 
offensive  to  some. 

CHERRY  AND  FILBERT  SALAD 

Select  firm,  large,  red  cherries.  Stone  them  and  in- 
sert in  the  cavity  blanched  filberts.  Chill  and  serve  in 
tall  sherbet  glasses  with  gelatine  salad  dressing. 

PRUNES  AND  PECAN  SALAD 
Cook  prunes  according  to  previous  directions. 
Drain  and  chill  nice  perfect  fruit.  Remove  the  pits  and 
cut  each  prune  lengthwise  in  quarters.  Pour  over  them 
a  little  sherry  or  grape  juice  and  set  aside  in  the  re- 
frigerator. Cut  pecan  nut  meats  into  pieces  lengthwise. 
Make  a  French  dressing  of  three  tablespoons  of 
olive  oil  and  two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  a  dash  of 
salt  and  pepper.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  prunes 
and  nuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  roast  lamb  or 
veal,  lamb  chops  or  at  a  luncheon  with  bread  and  butter. 

APPLE    SALAD 

Select  very  large  red  apples,  allowing  half  an  apple 
for  each  person. 

Make  the  following  dressing  long  enough  before 
serving  that  it  may  be  well  chilled. 

DRESSING: 

Put  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix 
together  three  level  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  level 
tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  mustard 
and  salt.  Add  these  to  the  hot  milk,  and  then  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  or  milk. 
When  cooked  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  cook  a  few 
moments  and  then  set  away  to  chill.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  either  the  very  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg 
or  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

236 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Cut  one-half  cup  of  pecans  into  small  pieces,  do  not 
mince.  Prepare  three  apples  by  cutting  them  in  halves 
crosswise  and  taking  out  the  fruit  in  small  pieces,  cut- 
ting in  dice  and  dropping  into  water,  into  which  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  have  been  put.  Dip  each  apple  into 
the  water  once  or  twice  so  that  it  will  not  become  red. 
When  you  have  a  shell  in  which  to  serve  the  salad  you 
may  notch  the  tops  of  each  shell  into  points.  Then  allow 
the  apple  shells  to  remain  in  the  water  till  ready  to  fill 
them. 

Quarter  a  banana  lengthwise  and  then  cut  into  inch 
pieces.  Drain  the  apple  thoroughly  and  mix  with  the 
banana  and  nuts  and  just  before  serving  mix  with  the 
salad  dressing  and  heap  this  in  the  apple  cups.  Prepare 
small  six  or  seven  inch  plates  by  putting  a  border  half 
way  around  the  rim  of  the  plate  of  sliced  bananas,  allow- 
ing the  slices  to  just  overlap.  Set  the  apple  cup  in  the 
center  of  each  plate.  If  this  apple  salad  is  to  be  served 
at  a  luncheon  or  at  the  supper  table,  prepare  a  plate  of 
almond  wafers  to  serve  with  it. 

AMBROSIA    SALAD 

Cut  a  small  pineapple  into  thick  slices,  peel,  take  out 
the  eyes  and  divide  into  sections  two  oranges,  cut  each 
section  in  two,  boil  one  cup  of  sugar  in  water  enough  to 
dissolve  it,  add  it,  when  cool,  to  the  fruit.  Then  add  the 
following  ingredients: 

2  bananas,  sliced  1     cup  grated  cocoanut 

1  cup  maraschino  "%.  cup  brown  sherry  or 

cherries  grape  juice 

Serve  in  tall  sherbet  glasses  in  which  a  crisp  round 
of  lettuce  has  been  placed. 

GRAPE   FRUIT   SALADS 
Grape  fruit  may  be  served  in  several  forms  of  salad, 
but  in  all  cases  the  pulp  must  be  perfectly  separated 
from  the  white  "rag,"  as  the  slightest  particle  will  give 

237 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

a  bitter  taste.  Serve  the  fruit  on  young,  crisp  lettuce  or 
tender  cabbage-heart  with  French  dressing  or  mayon- 
naise. Chopped  celery  or  nuts  or  some  other  fruit,  as 
cherries  or  currants,  make  toothsome  additions.  A 
little  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  fruit  before  add- 
ing dressing. 

PINEAPPLE  CELERY  AND  NUT  SALAD 
To  a  cup  of  diced  pineapple,  add  one-half  cup  of  very 

thinly  sliced  celery  stalks,  one-half  cup  of  nut  meats  and 

one  sour  apple  diced. 

Mix  well  and  serve  on  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce,  with 

a  fruit  salad  dressing. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD 
Mix  one  cup  tart,  chopped  pineapple  with  a  shredded 
grape  fruit  and  half  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts  or  celery. 
Add  fresh,  or  some  form  of  preserved  cherries,  and 
serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  AND  TOMATO  SALAD     . 
(A  novel  combination) 
MATERIALS : 

1  grape  fruit  2  medium  sized  firm 

Mayonnaise  dressing  tomatoes 

Minced  parsley 
PREPARATION: 

Separate  the  grape  fruit  and  remove  all  of  the 
white  membrane,  cut  into  cubes.  Peel  the  tomatoes 
without  scalding.  Quarter  them,  and  then  cut  across 
into  eighths. 

Chill  the  grape  fruit  and  tomatoes  for  an  hour  in 
the  refrigerator,  combine  the  two  just  before  serving 
and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

GRAPE    FRUIT    AND    BERMUDAS 
MATERIALS : 

1  grape  fruit,  chilled  French  dressing 

1  small  Bermuda  onion 

238 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  grape  fruit  in  halves  and  carefully  remove 
lobes  of  fruit  free  from  the  "rag."  Cut  the  Bermuda 
onion  in  thin  slices.  Place  on  round  of  lettuce  leaf  and 
heap  with  the  grape  fruit,  pour  over  a  French  dressing. 

WATERMELON    SALAD 

Thoroughly  chill  a  ripe  watermelon.  Remove  the 
heart  and  cut  into  cubes. 

Cut  the  rim  of  one  of  the  halves  into  vandyke  points. 
Return  the  cubes  to  the  shell  and  cover  with  a  rich  fruit 
salad  dressing  to  which  has  been  added  some  candied 
ginger  shredded. 

KUMQUAT 

The  kumquat  is  a  delightful  fruit  salad  material,  as 
well  as  a  choice  table  fruit,  suitable  for  table  service 
au  naturel,  for  jellies,  sauces,  jams  or  candied  delicacies. 

FRUIT  SALAD   FLUFF 
MATERIALS : 

1  can  sliced  pineapple,  1     cupful  pecans 

diced  Yz  pound  marshmallows  cut 

1  can  Royal  Ann  cherries  into  quarters  with  shears 

MATERIALS  FOR  DRESSING: 

1  cupful  whipped  cream  and  a  custard  made  of  juice  of  1 
lemon,  2  egg  yolks,  Yz  teaspoonful  mustard,  ^  teaspoonful  salt. 

PREPARATION : 

Cook  the  lemon,  egg  yolks,  mustard  and  salt  in  a 
cup  over  hot  water.  Chill  and  just  before  serving  whip 
it  into  the  whipped  cream. 

Drain  the  fruits,  mix  with  marshmallows  and  nuts, 
stand  in  the  refrigerator  1  hour  before  serving  to  allow 
the  marshmallows  to  fluff  up.  Mix  with  the  dressing 
and  decorate  with  some  slivers  of  maraschino  cherries. 
Serve  in  tall  sherbets  lined  with  crisp  lettuce. 

239 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 


ENTREES,    LEFT   OVERS 

CHEESE   SOUFFLE 

MATERIALS : 

Yi  cup  grated  cheese  2  level  tablespoons  butter 

Yz  cup  milk  2  eggs  (small) 

2    level  tablespoons  flour       Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION : 

Put  the  butter  in  the  saucepan,  when  melted,  blend 
with  the  flour  without  browning.  Add  the  milk  and 
cook  till  thick,  then  add  the  grated  cheese,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  cool.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and 
whip  them  into  the  mixture.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff 
and  fold  them  in.  Turn  the  souffle  into  a  well  greased 
pan.  Set  the  pan  in  a  shallow  dish  of  hot  water  and 
place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  minutes.    Serve  at  once  as  it  soon  settles. 


SPANISH   SAUCE 

Saute  in  some  butter  or  oil  some  finely  sliced  onion 
and  green  pepper.  Add  one  tablespoon  (heaping)  of 
flour.  When  well  combined  add  two  cups  of  tomatoes 
and  one  of  water.  Cook  till  creamy  and  then  season 
with  salt  and  a  generous  sprinkling  of  chili  powder. 


ALMOND  SOUFFLE 
MATERIALS : 

2  eggs  (small)  Yz  cup    milk 

2  level  tablespoons  butter      Speck  of  salt 

2  level  tablespoons  flour        Whipped  cream 

4  level  tablespoons  sugar       Finely  chopped  blanched 


almonds 


241 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  combine  with  it 
the  flour  and  the  milk.  Cook  until  thick.  Cool,  add  the 
yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  the  sugar  and  salt  and  lastly 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

Put  the  mixture  into  well  greased  ramekins  or  cups. 
Let  them  stand  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  one-half  hour. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream  sprinkled  with  the 
almonds. 

LENTEN    LOAF 

Butter  a  mold  that  holds  about  one  pint.  Decorate 
the  sides  and  bottom  with  strips  of  cooked  green  pep- 
pers. Prepare  a  cream  sauce  by  putting  two  cups  of 
milk  into  a  double  boiler,  add  one  rounding  tablespoon 
of  butter  creamed  with  one  of  flour. 

To  half  this  add  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine 
and  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
Then  add  one-half  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Season 
well  and  turn  into  the  mold.  Set  the  mold  in  a  dish  of 
hot  water  and  bake  one-half  hour.  Turn  it  out  care- 
fully, when  cooked,  onto  a  warm  dish  lined  with  crous- 
tades  of  fried  bread.  Add  some  minced  parsley  to  bal- 
ance of  the  white  sauce,  heat  it  and  pour  around  mold. 

A  cup  of  cream  of  tomato  soup  left  over  from  a  pre- 
vious meal  may  be  used  for  the  basis  of  the  mold  and 
would  be  preferable  to  the  cream  sauce. 

CHEESE  FINGERS 

Grate  cheese  to  fill  one  cup.  Grate  dry  bread  to  half 
fill  one  cup.  Place  one  cup  of  milk  over  hot  water,  in  a 
saucepan  or  double  boiler.  When  hot  add  the  cheese, 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  or  paprika  and  one  level 
teaspoon  of  mustard.  When  thickened  whip  in  one 
beaten  egg  and  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  of  such  size 

242 


THE        CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

that  the  mixture  will  be  an  inch  in  depth.  Set  this  dish 
over  a  dish  of  hot  water  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 
When  cold  cut  in  finger  length  strips,  roll  in  beaten  egg 
and  then  in  cracker  meal  and  fry  in  deep  oil  in  a  fry 
basket.  Drain  on  paper.  Serve  with  bread  and  butter 
or  with  a  green  salad. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

Roll  puff  paste  about  one-half  inch  thick.  Cut  with 
a  pastry  cutter  into  strips  three-fourths  of  an  inch  wide 
and  five  or  six  inches  long.  Brush  with  egg  and  water. 
Sprinkle  with  a  strong  grated  cheese  and  paprika. 
Place  in  a  shallow  biscuit  tin  or  baking  sheet  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  These  are  much  superior  to  any  other 
cheese  straw.  If  desired,  these  may  be  made  in  two 
layers,  rolling  the  paste  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 

WELSH   RAREBIT 

A  Welsh  rarebit  is  never  made  without  ale  or  beer. 
The  several  combinations  of  cheese,  milk  and  eggs  are 
sometimes  misnamed  Welsh  rarebit  but  they  are 
properly  cheese  custards.  If  for  any  reason  you  do  not 
wish  to  use  ale  or  beer  in  making  a  rarebit,  refrain  also 
from  the  use  of  the  term. 

MATERIALS : 

^^  pound  rich  old  cheese        Salt,  paprika,  mustard  and 
%  loaf  of  5c  baker's  bread  clove  of  garlic 

1     pint  ale  or  beer 

PREPARATION: 

Rub  the  chafing  dish  with  clove  of  garlic.  Break 
up  the  cheese  and  put  into  the  dish  and  set  over  the  hot 
water  pan.  When  melted  add  the  crumbed  bread,  pour 
in  the  ale  and  add  the  seasoning.  Stir  till  cheese  is 
melted. 

A  dash  of  port  wine  or  sherry  gives  the  rarebit  a 
heavier  flavor,  which  is  preferred  by  some. 

243 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Serve  immediately  on  slices  of  toast  or  plain  white 
bread.  A  pinch  of  soda  is  recommended  with  new 
cheese  to  make  it  more  digestible. 

SPANISH   CHEESE 

Place  six  large  chili  peppers  in  a  hot  oven  and  blister 
them,  then  rub  off  the  outer  skin,  open  the  peppers  and 
take  out  the  seeds.  Wrap  each  one  around  a  thick  slice 
of  cream  cheese  and  fry  in  butter  or  oil.  Make  a  Span- 
ish gravy  of  six  tomatoes  or  their  equivalent  in  canned 
tomatoes,  one  red  chili  pepper,  one  clove  of  garlic,  small 
onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  all  together,  thoroughly, 
strain  and  thicken  the  juice  with  butter  and  flour 
creamed  together.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  fried  peppers  and  cheese.    Serve  very  hot. 

CHEESE  AND   TOMATO 

Fill  a  heated  platter  with  rounds  of  nicely  toasted 
bread.  Put  one  cup  of  tomatoes  through  the  puree 
sieve,  so  as  to  remove  the  seeds.  Rub  the  chafing  dish 
with  a  clove  of  garlic.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  the  pan  with 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rich  cheese,  broken  or  grated, 
and  one  cup  lightly  filled  with  bread  crumbs.  Season 
the  mixture  well,  add  a  pinch  of  soda  and  cook  until  the 
cheese  is  melted.  Pour  this  over  the  platter  of  toast. 
Serve  hot.  This  is  a  good  substitute  for  Welsh  rarebit 
and  much  better  for  the  family  table. 

CHEESE   PUDDING 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  soft  American  cheese.  Toast 
either  white  bread  or  light  rolls  sliced,  trim  the  edges 
and  place  some  of  them  in  a  pudding  dish.  Put  a  layer 
of  the  cheese  and  then  a  layer  of  toast,  having  the  last 
layer  of  toast,  which  last  layer  should  he  buttered.    As 

244 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

each  layer  of  cheese  is  put  into  the  dish,  season  it  with 
paprika  and  very  little  salt.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  a 
pint  of  warm  sweet  milk  and  pour  over  all.  Let  stand 
five  minutes  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CHEESE    BALLS 

Cheese  balls  made  from  cottage  cheese  are  dainty 
served  with  a  salad  and  sometimes  with  the  soup  course 
instead  of  olives. 

Served  with  the  soup  or  bouillon,  mix  the  cheese 
with  sufficient  cream  to  handle  and  add  chopped  olives, 
either  ripe  or  green,  add  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Shape  into  marbles  and  press  between  the  halves  of 
large  olives. 

With  a  salad  course  serve  the  cheese  balls  pressed 
between  halves  of  walnuts  or  pecans. 

STUFFED   PEPPERS   WITH   RICE 

Split  large  bell  peppers  in  halves  lengthwise,  remove 
the  seeds.  Season  cold  boiled  rice  with  tomato  sauce 
and  some  grated  cheese.  Fill  the  peppers  with  the  mix- 
ture, cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  season 
with  paprika. 

Place  close  together  in  a  saucepan  and  surround  with 
water  an  inch  deep.  Bake  one-half  hour,  basting  fre- 
quently. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS  WITH 
SPAGHETTI 

Drop  broken  spaghetti  into  boiling  salted  water. 
Boil  thirty  minutes.  Remove  to  colander  or  coarse 
sieve  and  stand  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  to  blanch,  then 
drain. 

Proceed  the  same  as  with  the  rice  in  the  preceding 
recipe. 

245 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


CORN    FRITTERS 


MATERIALS : 


Yz  can  canned  corn  1  scant  teaspoon  of  shortening 

2    eggs  Flour  to  make  very  thin  batter 

4    tablespoons  cream  or        2  level  teaspoons  baking 
milk  powder 

Salt  to  season 
PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  add  the  yolks 
and  beat  again.  Then  add  the  corn,  salt,  cream,  flour 
and  baking  powder.  Fry  in  plenty  of  oil  on  a  pancake 
griddle  or  frying  pan.  More  flour  would  be  required 
for  frying  in  deep  oil  or  fat.  If  corn  from  the  cob  is 
used,  double  the  quantity  of  milk  or  cream.  Serve  with 
fried  chicken,  Maryland  style. 

CHICKEN   PATES 

As  to  the  pate  shells,  much  depends  upon  where  they 
are  purchased.  There  is  on  the  market  a  substitute  for 
butter,  which  a  great  many  bakers  find  more  convenient 
in  making  up  great  quantities,  as  it  can  be  handled  in  a 
warm  room,  in  fact,  must  be,  as  it  has  something  the 
same  quality  as  beeswax.  Possessing  this  quality  it 
makes  a  flaky  but  tough  pate  shell. 

The  chicken  for  the  filling  is  best  prepared  by  split- 
ting down  the  back,  without  dismembering.  Cook  in 
water  just  to  cover.  Cover  tightly  and  place  in  warm 
water  over  a  slow  heat  and  cook  at  a  temperature  of 
about  175  degrees  Fahrenheit.  When  cooked  set  aside 
to  cool  before  preparing  for  the  sauce.  When  cooled 
take  the  meat  from  the  breast  and  cut  into  cubes.  Drain 
and  rinse  some  canned  or  bottled  mushrooms. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  rounding  tablespoon  each 
of  flour  and  butter  creamed  together  and  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  heat  the  milk  in  a  double  cooker,  add  the 

246 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

creamed  flour  and  butter,  and  cook  till  creamy.  Season 
with  salt  and  white  pepper  and  stir  in  the  diced  white 
meat  of  the  chicken  and  the  mushrooms.  The  daintiest 
garnish  is  dried  parsley  crushed  and  sprinkled  over  the 
patties  when  filled.  Serve  on  small  or  bread  and  butter 
plates. 

FISH   PATES 

Cut  slices  of  baker's  bread  one  and  a  half  inches 
thick.  Remove  the  crusts  and  the  greater  part  of  the 
center,  leaving  a  shell  with  the  sides  and  bottom  one- 
quarter  inch  thick.  Fry  a  medium  sized  onion  in  two 
tablespoons  of  oil,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flaked 
cold  cooked  fish.  Put  into  a  hot  oven  one-half  cup  of 
grated  stale  bread  until  slightly  browned. 

Add  these  to  the  fish  with  half  a  cup  of  milk,  season- 
ing of  salt,  paprika,  a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  one 
each  of  lemon  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add  two 
chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopping  the  whites  and 
yolks  separately.  Fill  the  bread  patties  with  this. 
Brush  the  bread  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over  them  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  bread 
is  browned.  Any  cold  cooked  meat  minced  fine  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  fish. 

PRUNE   CROQUETTES 

Prepare  some  very  fine  cracker  meal  by  drying  well 
in  the  oven  several  crackers.  Put  them  between  two 
napkins  or  folded  in  a  towel  and  roll  to  powder  with  a 
wooden  rolling  pin. 

Remove  pits  from  the  cooked  prunes,  make  a  pulp 
of  them  and  mix  in  an  egg  and  some  of  the  cracker  meal. 

Take  up  in  tablespoonfuls,  mold  into  shape  and  dip 
in  beaten  egg.  Roll  in  the  cracker  meal.  Drop  into  deep 
frying  oil.    Drain  on  soft  paper  and  serve  with  a  sauce 

247 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

made  of  the  syrup  of  the  prunes  to  which  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  an  orange  have  been  added. 

These  may  be  served  cold  or  hot,  though  the  latter 
is  preferable. 

BOUDINS 

MATERIALS: 

2     cups  minced  cold  roast  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

veal  Whites  of  three  eggs 

^  cup  cream  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 
1    level  tablespoon  butter 

PREPARATION: 

Beat  the  egg  whites  very  stiff,  melt  the  butter  and 
add  to  the  meat  with  the  seasoning,  gradually  add  the 
cream  and  then  the  eggs.  Fill  timbale  molds  two-thirds 
full,  place  in  pan  with  water  to  the  depth  of  one  inch 
around  the  molds!  Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  hot 
oven. 

SPANISH  LUNCHEON  DISH 

Put  one-half  cup  of  cottolene  or  cooking  oil  with  a 
clove  of  garlic  and  an  onion  sliced  fine  in  a  frying  pan. 
Fry  brown,  then  add  a  pound  of  cold  roast  meat  cut  in 
inch  pieces,  fry  brown,  then  add  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  a 
chili  pepper.  Boil  sticks  of  macaroni  in  salted  water 
twenty  minutes,  then  add  to  the  meat  with  a  cup  of  fresh 
mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  ready  to 
serve  cover  thickly  with  Parmesan  cheese.    Serve  hot. 

LUNCHEON  DISH 

Brush  a  baking  dish  with  melted  shortening.  Heap 
in  the  center  cold  meat  minced  fine,  if  a  little  cold  bacon 
or  ham  is  included  so  much  the  better,  surround  the 
meat,  almost  filling  the  dish,  with  either  cooked 
macaroni,  rice  or  cold  boiled  potatoes,  diced.    Pour  over 

248 


THE        CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

all  the  juice  of  the  tomatoes.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs 
and  saturate  with  some  gravy  or  rich  soup  stock.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  about  one-half  hour. 

RADISH  CURRY— With  Rice  and  Cold  Meat 
MATERIALS : 

Yi  cup  rice  2  green  onions 

6    radishes  1  level  teaspoon  curry  powder 

4     level  tablespoons  1  cup  cold  cooked  meat 

drippings  1  cup  hot  water  or  soup  stock 

2    level  tablespoons  flour       Salt  to  season 
PREPARATION: 

Put  the  rice  over  to  cook  in  two  cups  salted  boiling 
water.    Put  the  drippings  in  a  small  skillet.    Slice  the 
radishes  in  three  pieces  into   the  drippings  to  cook 
slowly,  till  wilted.    Draw  to  one  side  of  skillet  to  make 
room  to  put  the  curry  powder  into  the  drippings,  then 
put  in  the  sliced  onions.    After  a  minute  add  the  flour 
and  then  the  hot  water. 
Season  with  salt. 
When  cooked  up  add  the  meat. 
Serve  the  rice  on  one-half  of  a  small  deep  platter, 
put  the  meat  on  the  other  half. 

Decorate  with  slices  of  pimento  arranged  in  rings 
with  tiny  spray  of  parsley  in  the  center  of  each. 

FRIED  APPLES 

Wash,  core  and  halve,  from  stem  to  blossom  end, 
nice  red  apples  without  paring.  Cut  into  half  inch 
slices.  Fry  in  olive  or  cooking  oil  or  drippings  until 
golden  brown,  turning  with  pancake  turner.  Remove 
hot  platter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

APPLE   CROQUETTES 
MATERIALS: 

2  eggs  1  cup  tart  apple  sauce 

Bread  crumbs  Cooking  oil 

249 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION: 

Beat  one  egg,  add  to  the  apple  sauce  and  mix  with 
sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  mold  into  croquettes. 

Beat  up  the  other  egg,  dip  the  croquettes  into  it  and 
then  roll  in  cracker  meal  and  fry  in  deep  oil.  Serve 
with  some  fruit  syrup. 

TIMBALE   CASES 

MATERIALS: 

1     egg  yolk  1  teaspoon  of  sugar 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  cottolene  or  olive 

34  cup  flour  oil 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  small  kettle  of  frying  oil 


PREPARATION: 

Make  a  batter  of  the  materials.  Heat  the  kettle  of 
oil  and  place  the  timbale  iron  in  the  oil.  When  hot 
enough  dip  the  iron  in  the  batter  and  then  into  the  deep 
oil.  When  browned  invert  the  iron  before  taking  from 
the  kettle  so  as  to  permit  the  oil  to  drain  from  the  tim- 
bale cases.  Permit  the  weight  of  the  iron  to  rest  for  a 
moment  on  the  case,  thus  giving  it  a  flat  bottom.  If 
the  timbale  cases  show  a  tendency  to  stick  to  the  iron, 
the  iron  is  too  hot  and  very  likely  the  fat  also.  If  the 
batter  shows  a  tendency  to  slip  off  before  getting  it  into 
the  fat  the  iron  is  not  hot  enough. 

Garnish  the  cases  by  first  dipping  the  extreme  top 
into  foamy  egg  white  and  then  into  minced  parsley, 
being  careful  to  have  the  parsley  well  dried  before 
mincing. 

Place  the  timbale  cases  on  a  round  of  lettuce,  fill  as 
desired.  They  may  be  served  as  a  luncheon  dish  or  as 
an  entree. 

250 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CHESTNUT  CROQUETTES 

MATERIALS : 

1  cup  mashed  chestnuts        1  tablespoon  sugar 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sherry  or  grape 

2  teaspoons  butter  juice 
2    egg  yolks 

PREPARATION : 

Cook  the  chestnuts  and  when  soft  blanch  and  mash. 
Mix  the  other  ingredients  with  the  chestnuts  and  mold 
into  small  balls  or  rolls.  Dip  them  into  beaten  egg  yolk, 
roll  in  cracker  meal.  Drop  into  hot  oil  or  fat  and  fry 
delicate  brown.    Drain  and  lay  on  soft  paper. 

Serve  with  fish  course  or  as  an  entree. 

TOAST  OF  ARCADY 

French  Style 
MATERIALS: 

10  half  inch  slices  bread  1  tablespoon  water 

2    eggs  1  orange  (juice) 

2    tablespoons  sugar 
PREPARATION : 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  shallow  bowl,  beat  well  with 
a  rotary  beater,  add  the  sugar,  water,  orange  juice  and 
salt. 

Trim  the  bread  and  cut  each  slice  in  three  strips. 
Dip  into  the  mixture  quickly,  drain  and  fry  on  moderate 
griddle  with  plenty  of  drippings. 

Arrange  in  overlapping  row  on  serving  plate,  dust 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Served  as  a  luncheon  or  tea  toast  it  is  very  dainty. 

KLOP 

Heat  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and 
blend  with  it  two  level  tablespoons  of  flour.  Add  a  dash 
of  paprika  and  then  a  cup  of  boiling  milk.  Cook  till 
creamy.    Then  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  grated 

251 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

cheese  and  a  cup  of  flaked  cold  boiled  fish.  Stir  in  a 
well  beaten  egg  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Serve 
on  points  of  toast. 

SWEET    POTATO    PONE 

Wash,  peel  and  grate  small  sweet  potatoes,  measure 
two  and  one-half  cups  into  a  large  bowl,  into  this  stir 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  best  West  Indian  molasses, 
one-half  cup  of  butter  or  preferred  shortening,  (soft- 
ened but  not  oily),  one-half  cup  of  preserved  ginger, 
one-half  cup  of  orange  and  lemon  peel,  one-half  tea- 
spoon each  of  allspice  and  mace,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  ginger  (level),  and  one  level 
teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Run  the  pre- 
served ginger,  orange  and  lemon  peel  through  the  food 
chopper.  Mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly,  pour  the 
pone  into  a  well  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Try  it  with  a  knife. 
When  the  blade  comes  out  clean,  take  from  oven.  Let 
it  cool  before  taking  from  the  pan.  It  should  look 
dark  like  a  rich  preserve  when  properly  baked. 

TIMBALES  OF  LIVER  WITH  GOLDEN  ROD 

SAUCE 

MATERIALS: 

Yz  pound  calves'  liver  1     onion 

1     cup  bread  crumbs  Vz  green  pepper 

1  lemon  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION : 

Parboil  the  liver,  allowing  the  liquor  in  which  it  is 
boiled  to  become  reduced. 

Put  liver  through  the  food  chopper. 

252 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

Moisten  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  liquor  in  which  the 
liver  was  boiled.  Put  the  onion  through  the  food  chop- 
per. Then  make  a  mixture  of  the  liver,  onions,  bread 
crumbs,  beaten  eggs,  minced  green  pepper,  butter  and 
the  juice  of  lemon. 

Place  the  mixture  in  timbale  molds  well  buttered. 
These  are  then  placed  in  a  dish  of  water  and  baked  in 
moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  surround  with 
Golden  Rod  sauce. 

STUFFED    PEPPERS   WITH    MEAT 

MATERIALS : 

6  large  sweet  peppers  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  finely  chopped  1  tablespoon  butter 

cooked  meat  1  saltspoon  pepper 

1  good-sized  onion  1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

PREPARATION : 

Cut  the  peppers  into  halves,  lengthwise,  remove  the 
seeds  and  cut  off  the  stem,  wash  them  in  cold  water. 
Mix  the  meat,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  half  the 
onion  grated.  Stuff  this  into  the  peppers,  stand  them  in 
a  baking  pan,  put  into  the  pan  the  remaining  onion, 
sliced,  the  butter  and  half  a  pint  of  water  or  stock. 
Bake  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  basting  the  out- 
side of  the  peppers  every  ten  minutes.  Serve  as  a 
luncheon  or  supper  dish  or  as  an  entree  at  dinner. 

LEFT-OVERS 

To  an  economical  soul  and  a  careful  housewife  the 
small  left-over  dishes  are  a  joy  forever  and  offer  much 
opportunity  for  ingenuity. 

^  The  first  requests  made  of  the  teacher  of  household 
science  are  for  recipes  in  which  to  utilize  the  scraps 

253 


THE        CALUMET       COOK        BOOK 

which  are  too  good  to  throw  away,  yet  are  not  suitable 
to  serve  again  in  the  same  form. 

And  it  is  remarkable  the  many  delightful  ways  of 
serving  these  small  portions  of  meats,  fish,  vegetables, 
and  bread  and  cake  crumbs. 

Among  the  most  important  of  these  are  the  meats. 
For  instance,  perhaps  a  broiled  steak  was  the  meat 
served  at  dinner.  Now,  as  all  good  housewives  know, 
a  warmed  over  steak  is  the  most  undesirable  dish  unless 
the  steak  was  served  very  rare  in  the  first  place  and  is 
carefully  treated  in  the  warming.  To  begin  with,  the 
member  of  the  family  who  serves  at  the  head  of  the  table 
should  be  instructed  to  cut  around  the  bone  separating 
the  meat  from  the  bone  and  this  bone  will  serve  as  an 
addition  to  the  soup  or  stock  kettle,  which  should  be  a 
part  of  every  kitchen  equipment  and  into  which  should 
go  all  bones  and  scraps  that  cannot  be  used  in  any  other 
way. 

Right  here  attention  should  be  called  to  the  savory 
soup  to  be  made  from  the  carcass  of  a  roast  fowl.  When 
there  is  no  more  to  be  served  from  the  carcass  of  the 
fowl,  break  it  up  and  consign  it  to  the  stock  kettle,  cover 
with  water  and  simmer  gently  for  about  an  hour,  then 
strain  the  liquor  and  season  to  taste,  if  the  fowl  was 
stuffed  with  a  sage  and  onion  dressing,  very  little  sea- 
soning will  be  required  other  than  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per and  perhaps  a  green  pepper  minced  fine. 

If  some  of  the  dressing  is  left  over  and  was  prepared 
properly  in  the  first  place  and  not  the  soggy  mess  that 
often  answers  to  that  name,  it  can  be  mixed  with  a  little 
c§§."  yolk,  formed  into  marbles  and  cooked  in  the  soup 
for  ten  minutes  before  ser\'ing,  or  dry  bread  may  be  cut 
into  dice  and  toasted,  adding  them  to  the  soup  after  it 
is  served. 


THE        CALUMET        COOK        BOOK 

Pimientoes  cut  into  small  pieces  are  a  nice  addition 
to  any  soup.  They  can  be  purchased  at  any  representa- 
tive grocery  in  cans  of  two  sizes,  usually  selling  at  a 
shilling  for  the  smaller  and  a  quarter  for  the  larger 
size.  I  would  advise  the  purchase  of  the  smaller  size 
for  the  first  trial  or  small  family,  as  they  do  not  keep 
longer  than  four  or  five  days,  unless  covered  with  vine- 
gar. 

A  very  serviceable  stock  kettle  is  the  kettle  which  is 
part  of  the  fireless  food  cooker  equipment,  with  a  close 
cover  and  more  deep  than  large  in  circumference. 
These  kettles  are  now  on  sale,  for  those  wishing  to 
make  their  own  fireless  cookers. 

Croquettes;  Timbales — Croquettes  and  timbales  are 
another  medium  for  the  use  of  left-overs. 

Left-over  dishes  can  usually  form  a  chief  dish  for  the 
luncheon  table  or  if  the  heavy  meal  is  served  at  noon 
it  may  serve  as  the  principal  dish  at  the  evening  meal. 

It  must  be  admitted,  however,  in  this  connection  that 
to  the  very  busy  woman  dishes  made  from  left-overs, 
while  effecting  a  saving  of  material,  represent  some- 
times a  waste  of  time  and  effort  that  might  be  used  to 
better  advantage.    Try  to  avoid  useless  economies. 


255 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

EGGS 

BOILED    EGGS 

Explanatory:  The  albumen  of  egg  coagulates  or 
cooks  at  130  degrees  Fahr.  Water  boils  at  212  degrees 
Fahr.;  hence  eggs  cooked  too  rapidly  or  exposed  to 
too  great  heat  are  rendered  tough  and  not  so  easily 
digested. 

Method  No.  1:  Place  eggs  in  a  quantity  of  cold 
water;  put  over  the  fire  and  allow  to  come  to  a  boil. 
If  soft  eggs  are  desired,  remove  at  once.  If  the  white 
is  desired  well  cooked  with  yolk  soft,  allow  to  stand 
in  boiling  water  one-half  minute. 

Method  No.  2 :  Place  eggs  in  rapidly  boiling  water, 
two  quarts  at  least;  remove  from  fire  and  allow  eggs 
to  remain  uncovered  from  eight  to  ten  minutes,  time 
depending  on  how  much  cooking  is  desired. 

Method  No.  3 :  Place  eggs  in  rapidly  boiling  water, 
allowing  to  continue  boiling.  For  soft  eggs  remove 
promptly  at  three  and  a  half  minutes. 

The  four  minute  egg  insures  no  uncooked  white 
around  the  yolk.  This  method,  however,  is  the  least 
desirable.  If  eggs  are  overlooked  for  a  moment  too 
long,  drop  them  into  cold  running  water  and  the  cook- 
ing will  be  arrested. 

POACHED  EGGS 

Have  water  in  a  skillet  salted  and  heated  to  just  boil- 
ing point.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  dish  and  then  slip  them 
into  the  water,  moving  the  pan  where  the  water  will  re- 
main hot  but  not  boil.  This  method  will  produce  an 
egg  of  jelly-like  consistency. 

A  muffin  ring  may  first  be  placed  in  the  water,  one 
for  each  egg,  or  the  aluminum  egg  poachers  may  be 
used.    They  are  very  convenient  and  practical. 

257 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

FRIED  EGGS 

For  two  eggs  select  a  skillet  not  larger  than  a  tea 
saucer. 

Heat  the  skillet  and  place  drippings  or  butter  in  it. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer  and  slip  into  the  skillet. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover.  Do  not  have 
too  much  heat  under  the  skillet. 

SHIRRED  EGGS 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan, 
cook  slowly  until  it  is  a  dark  brown.  Then  drop  in 
quickly  two  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar,  cook  for 
a  moment  and  take  from  the  fire. 

Divide  between  four  shirred  egg  cups  or  ramekins, 
and  add  to  each  a  sprinkle  of  minced  parsley.  Break  a 
raw  egg  carefully  in  each,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper.    Place  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  whites  are  set. 

EGGS   BROUILLI 
MATERIALS: 

4    eggs  4  tablespoons  cream 

4    tablespoons  stock  Dash  of  pepper 

^  teaspoon  salt 

PREPARATION: 

Beat  the  eggs  until  well  mixed,  add  the  cream  and 

stock.    Turn  into  a  saucepan  and  set  it  in  another  of 

hot  water,  and  stir  and  beat  until  jellylike  and  thick. 

Add  the  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  squares  of  toast. 

SWISS  EGG 
MATERIALS: 

Thin  slices  of  cheese  Bread  crumbs 

Grated  cheese  Seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper 

Butter  Ramekins  or  individual  baking 

1  tablespoon  milk  to  each  dishes 

egg 
PREPARATION: 

Place  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  the  heated  ramekin. 
Lay  in  it  a  thin  slice  of  cheese  and  over  this  break  an 

258 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

egg,  add  a  tablespoon  of  milk.  Sprinkle  with  a  few 
bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese  with  seasoning  to  taste. 
Place  in  moderate  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set  and  the 
cheese  lightly  browned. 

SCOTCH  EGGS 

MATERIALS: 

6    hard  boiled  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  milk  . .  %  teaspoon  mustard 

%  cup  stale  bread  crumbs      %  teaspoon  paprika 
1     cup  cooked  ham  1     egg  uncooked 

PREPARATION: 

Heat  the  milk  and  mix  with  the  bread  crumbs.    Make 

a  mixture  of  all  the  materials,  with  the  exception  of  the 

cooked  eggs.    Then  cover  the  eggs  with  the  mixture  and 

drop  in  hot  fat  or  oil. 

These  may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

EGG  TIMBALES 

MATERIALS: 

1     heaping  tablespoon  3    eggs 

each  of  flour  and  butter    Seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper, 
%  cup  milk  paprika  and  minced 

parsley 
PREPARATION: 

Cream  the  flour  and  butter.  Put  the  milk  into  a 
double  boiler  and  add  the  creamed  flour  and  butter.  Re- 
move from  the  fire.  Beat  the  yolks  with  a  rotary  beater 
until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Add  them  to  the  cream 
sauce  with  the  rotary  beater  and  then  add  the  seasoning. 
Beat  the  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Turn  into  buttered  molds.  Place  them  in  a  pan  of  water 
and  then  into  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  Turn  onto  a 
warm  platter  and  surround  with  a  Spanish  sauce. 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN 

Butter  individual  dishes  or  ramekins,  place  in  each 
two  tablespoons  of  cream  sauce.    Drop  into  each  on  top 

259 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

of  the  cream  sauce  one  raw  egg.  Sprinkle  with  grated 
or  Parmesan  cheese.  Cover  with  another  two  table- 
spoons of  the  cream  sauce.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  and 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Stand 
the  dishes  in  a  shallow  dish  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  in  the  dishes 
in  which  they  are  cooked. 

EGGS   IN  TOMATO   SAUCE 

These  are  prepared  the  same  as  eggs  au  gratin,  using 
tomato  sauce  instead  of  the  cream  sauce.  The  cheese 
is  omitted. 

PUFF   OMELET. 

MATERIALS : 

3  eggs  Rounding  teaspoon  of  butter 
3  tablespoons  warm  water  or  three  teaspoons  of  olive 

Pinch  of  salt  oil 

PREPARATION : 

Separate  the  eggs,  beat  up  the  whites  very  stiff, 
drop  in  the  yolks  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  beat  again. 
Put  the  oil  or  butter  into  an  omelet  pan.  Add  three 
tablespoons  of  warm  water  to  the  eggs  and  turn  all  into 
the  pan. 

Watch  it  carefully  to  see  that  it  does  not  cook  too 
rapidly  and  when  well  "set"  around  the  edges,  place  in 
an  oven  or  under  the  broiler  fire  until  the  top  is  dry. 
Just  a  moment  is  all  that  is  necessary,  if  left  too  long 
it  will  settle  back  and  fall. 

Have  ready  any  desired  filling.  Just  the  moment  the 
omelet  is  ready  put  the  filling  on  the  half  of  the  omelet 
furthest  from  the  handle  of  the  pan  and  turn  the  other 
half  over  it.  Turn  onto  a  hot  platter.  This  makes  a 
delicious  sweet  entree  or  an  acceptable  luncheon  or 
supper  dish. 

260 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

SPANISH    OMELET 

Put  some  slices  of  bacon  into  a  frying  pan,  add  one- 
half  cup  of  water  and  cook  until  the  water  is  evaporated. 
Then  fry  the  bacon  carefully.  Remove  the  bacon  and 
cook  an  onion  chopped  fine,  add  some  nice  whole  meats 
from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  dice  the  bacon  and  return  to 
the  pan,  season  all  well  with  some  cayenne  and  salt  and 
keep  hot  while  preparing  the  eggs. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  eggs  and  stir  until  mixed,  but 
do  not  whip,  add  one  tablespoon  of  warm  water  for  each 
egg.  Put  the  omelet  pan  over  the  fire  with  a  teaspoon 
of  oil  or  butter.  When  hot  turn  in  the  eggs  and  shake 
and  lift,  turning  the  soft  part  underneath  until  the  eggs 
are  "set."  Turn  the  first  mixture  quickly  over  the  eggs, 
fold  once  and  turn  into  a  hot  platter.  Serve  imme- 
diately. 


261 


THE        CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

FISH 

FISH   ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Baked  salmon  is  considered  one  of  the  most  elegant 
of  dinner  fish  and  is  rich  enough  in  itself  to  furnish  the 
heavy  course. 

Care  must  be  exercised  to  serve  appropriate  dishes 
with  it,  such  as  entrees,  sauces,  vegetables  and  desserts 
to  make  the  dinner  complete. 

Contrary  to  a  heavy  meat  dinner,  a  rich  dessert  is 
desirable  with  a  fish  dinner. 

The  entrees,  however,  must  not  be  sweet. 

Certain  vegetables  associate  themselves  with  a  fish 
course. 

A  baked  salmon  brought  to  the  table  with  one-half 
of  the  platter  banked  with  fresh  crisp  water  cress  is  a 
feast  for  the  epicurean  eye,  as  well  as  palate.  The  cress 
not  only  garnishes  the  dish  but  sprigs  of  it  should  be 
served  with  the  fish. 

Water  cress,  lending  a  zest  to  many  dishes,  is  par- 
ticularly appropriate  with  salmon. 

The  entrees  that  can  be  served  are  many  and  the 
leading  ones  are  stuffed  green  peppers,  French  or  cream 
pea  patties,  celery  or  macaroni  croquettes,  various 
vegetables  au  gratin  with  cheese,  combinations  of  egg, 
mushrooms  in  many  forms  and  the  Italian  pastes. 

The  sauces  are  not  so  many,  but  more  important  as 
no  fish  is  ever  served  without  a  sauce. 

Baked  salmon  requires  one  of  the  following  sauces : 
Lemon  butter  sauce,  sauce  Bechamel,  sauce  Genoise, 
Hollandaise,  sauce  Tartare,  anchovy  butter,  Spanish, 
Bernaise,  piquant  or  horseradish  sauce. 

The  principal  vegetables  to  accompany  a  fish  din- 
ner are  peas,  string  or  butter  beans,  cauliflower,  arti- 
chokes, fried  green  peppers  or  fried  green  tomatoes 
with  Irish  potatoes  in  many  forms. 

263 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Salads  of  cucumbers  lead,  with  combination,  tomato, 
Cole  slaw,  pea  and  cheese  salads  following. 

Very  finely  shredded  cabbage  with  green  peppers  is 
good. 

The  dessert  usually  takes  the  form  of  a  rich  pastry, 
such  as  a  lemon,  orange,  pie  plant  or  pineapple  pie. 

Puddings  are  not  as  acceptable  in  rounding  out  a  fish 
dinner. 

The  fishes  not  so  rich  as  salmon  are  accompanied 
with  a  larding  of  bacon  or  salt  pork,  or  a  sprinkle  of 
cheese.  The  larding  is  accomplished  by  cutting  gashes 
in  the  fish  and  laying  in  long  slices  of  the  fat  meat. 
Bacon  has  the  preference. 

The  soup  to  precede  the  fish  is  never  of  a  meat  stock, 
nor  bouillon.  It  is  usually  a  cream  of  some  vegetable 
or  fish,  more  often  of  a  vegetable. 

The  preferred  stuffing  for  a  fish  is  of  bread  with 
plenty  of  onion  and  green  peppers  minced  fine. 

Grated  cheese  sprinkled  over  a  baking  fish  about 
fifteen  minutes  before  removing  from  the  oven  is  a  great 
addition,  giving  a  piquancy  much  desired. 

SALMON  DISHES 

A  small  family  could  hardly  indulge  in  baked  salmon 
unless  a  small  one  could  be  procured.  Instead  of  trying 
to  bake  a  slice  of  salmon,  which  at  best  could  only  be 
braised  in  the  oven,  ask  your  dealer  for  the  tail  end,  and 
you  will  have  the  flesh  and  natural  juices  protected  by 
the  skin. 

There  will  not  be  the  opportunity  to  stuff  it  but  the 
dressing  may  be  put  into  a  narrow  saucepan  and  basted 
frequently  as  the  fish  is  basted. 

BAKED   SALMON 

The  directions  here  given  for  salmon  will  answer  for 
any  other  fish. 

264 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Clean  the  fish  by  making  an  opening  at  the  gills  and 
drawing  out  the  intestines.  Cleanse  thoroughly  and 
stuff  loosely. 

If  no  fish  boiler  or  baker  is  at  hand,  substitute  the 
loose  bottom  of  a  long  cake  tin  or  a  very  shallow  long 
biscuit  pan  inverted  in  the  bottom  of  a  larger  dripping 
pan.  This  is  almost  a  necessity  in  order  to  dish  the 
fish  on  the  platter  without  disturbing  its  shape. 

DRESSING    FOR    BAKED    SALMON 

Prepare  bread  by  breaking  it  up,  if  very  fresh.  If 
dry,  grate  it  on  a  coarse  grater. 

To  half  a  loaf,  mince  two  sweet  bell  peppers  and  one 
small  onion,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  two  tablespoons  of  margarine  and  one-half 
cup  of  water  sprinkled  on  the  bread. 

If  dry  bread  is  used,  just  moisten  enough  to  make 
it  about  like  fresh  bread,  by  grating  it  and  sprinkling 
with  water. 

Stuff  the  fish  with  this  dressing. 

Add  a  little  lemon  juice  and  butter  to  the  water  for 
basting  the  fish. 

Bring  to  the  table  in  a  warm  platter  surrounded  with 
water  cress  and  garnished  with  slices  of  lemon  al- 
ternately dipped  in  dry  parsley  and  sprinkled  with 
paprika. 

Serve  with  sauce  Hollandaise. 

BRAISED   SALMON 

Place  a  thick  slice  of  salmon  in  a  small  dripping  pan. 
Dredge  lightly  with  flour  or  cracker  meal.  Dot  with 
bits  of  butter  and  baste  with  a  sauce  made  of  one  table- 
spoon of  minced  parsley,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  one  teaspoon  of  horseradish  and 
one  cup  of  hot  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Bake  quickly  in  a  hot  oven  and  baste  frequently. 

265 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

A  horseradish  sauce  is  very  good  to  serve  in  the  early 
spring  with  almost  any  dish  of  fish,  and  is  particularly 
nice  with  braised  salmon. 

SALMON   LOAF 
MATERIALS: 

1       can  salmon  1  egg  or 

IY2  cups  bread  crumbs  2  egg  yolks 

Y2     cup  milk  1  tablespoon  parsley 

Yz    lemon  (juice)  Paprika  and  salt  to  season 

PREPARATION : 

Open  the  can  and  turn  out  the  contents  some  time 
before  using.  Discard  the  skin  and  bones.  Pull  the  fish 
apart,  retaining  the  liquor  to  which  add  the  egg  slightly 
beaten,  milk  and  the  lemon  juice.  Toss  the  materials 
lightly  together.    Put  into  a  greased  mold. 

Place  mold  in  another  shallow  pan,  surround  with  an 
inch  and  a  half  of  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  forty-five  minutes. 

When  ready  to  serve  turn  onto  platter  and  sur- 
round with  fish  sauce,  in  which  small  gherkins  are 
minced. 

SALMON  LOAF— No.  2 
MATERIALS : 

1  can  salmon  1  red  pepper 

1  egg  Pimento 

3  tablespoons  milk  Parsley 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Seasoning 

Prepare  as  in  Salmon  Loaf  No.  1.  Serve  with  sauce 
Tartare. 

SALMON   CROQUETTES 
MATERIALS : 

Y2  pound  cold  boiled  Juice  of  Y2  lemon 

salmon  Dash  of  paprika 

Y2  teaspoon  salt  Y2  cup  milk 

1     tablespoon  minced  3    level  teaspoons  each  of 
parsley  butter  and  flour 

266 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Chop  the  salmon  fine  and  add  to  it  the  salt,  parsley, 
lemon  juice  and  paprika,  put  the  milk  to  cook  in  the 
double  boiler.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  to  a  cream  and 
add  to  the  milk  when  hot.  Now  stir  this  into  the 
salmon.  Turn  onto  a  dish  to  cool.  When  cool,  form 
into  croquettes,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs  or  cracker  meal  and  fry  in  boiling  oil. 

These  may  be  served  with  a  sauce  tartar  or  cucumber 
salad. 

SALMON  WITH   PEAS 

Run  the  can  opener  all  around  a  can  of  salmon  so 
as  to  turn  the  contents  out  whole.  Discard  the  liquid, 
skin  and  bones  and  separate  the  fish  into  large  flakes. 
Sprinkle  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  let  stand  for 
an  hour. 

Open  and  drain  a  can  of  peas  and  rinse  through  sev- 
eral waters.  This  treatment  removes  the  tinny  taste 
from  both  articles. 

Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one 
tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  until  mixed,  then  gradually  add 
one  cup  of  rich  hot  milk,  stirring  until  thickened.  Add 
a  pinch  of  mace,  the  drained  peas,  a  high  seasoning  of 
pepper  and  salt.  Then  add  the  salmon  and  heat  through. 

Have  previously  prepared  the  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled 
egg  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve,  also  some  minced 
parsley.  Dish  the  salmon  and  peas  over  some  triangles 
of  toast  and  sprinkle  with  the  egg  and  parsley. 

SALMON   TIMBALES 

Cook  to  a  smooth  paste  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in 
one  cup  of  milk.  Mix  with  this  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  salmon.  Beat  two  eggs  lightly  and  beat  into  the 
mixture,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne  and  add  one  cup 
of  rich  milk.  Pour  this  into  buttered  molds  or  ramekins. 
Set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  about  one-half 

267 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

hour.  For  the  sauce  cream  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
thoroughly.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon.  Add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  smooth  in  a  double  boiler. 

Turn  the  timbales  onto  a  warm  platter  and  pour  the 
sauce  around. 

SALMON   CURRY 

Open  a  can  of  salmon  some  hours  before  needed,  re- 
move from  the  tin,  separating  it  also  from  all  the  skin 
and  bone. 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  oil  into  a  small  skillet  and 
fry  or  saute  in  it  a  minced  onion  and  when  brown  add  a 
teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  then  add  three  level  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Blend  well  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  white 
stock  and  the  juice  from  the  salmon  with  the  juice  of 
one-half  lemon. 

When  creamy  add  the  salmon  and  serve  immediately 
with  quarters  of  lemon. 

HALIBUT  STEAK  BAKED  WITH  TOMATOES 
(A  Creole  Recipe) 

Make  a  rich  sauce  of  tomatoes,  either  fresh  or 
canned,  seasoning  with  a  dash  of  sugar,  salt,  pepper, 
seeded  and  minced  green  pepper  and  onions.  Cook 
fifteen  minutes,  strain  and  add  some  finely  grated  bread 
crumbs,  not  enough  to  thicken  the  sauce. 

Lay  the  halibut  steak  in  a  granite  saucepan,  pour 
the  sauce  over  it,  cover  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven.  Just  before  removing  from  the  oven  take  off 
the  cover  and  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  the  top  and 
allow  it  to  brown  slightly.  The  steak  may  be  cut  into 
pieces  right  to  serve  and  baked  in  the  baker  of  a  double 
baking  dish  and  served  from  it. 

268 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


SMOKED   HALIBUT   WITH   SPAGHETTI 

Cream  together  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter 
with  one  of  flour.  Place  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  the  creamed  butter  and  flour  and  cook  till 
creamy,  season  with  white  pepper  and  salt.  Put  into  it 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  smoked  halibut  that  has  been 
minced  fine.  Butter  ramekins  and  line  with  bread 
crumbs,  put  in  some  of  the  creamed  halibut  and  then 
a  layer  of  parboiled  spaghetti.  Continue  until  the  dish 
is  filled  with  alternate  layers.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs 
over  the  top  that  have  been  tossed  in  melted  butter. 
Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bring  to  the 
table  in  the  ramekin. 

PLANKED  WHITE  FISH  WITH  POTATOES 

DUCHESS 

MATERIALS: 

1  fresh  white  fish  weigh-     Parsley 

ing  three  or  four  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

pounds  6  medium  potatoes 

2  lemons  1  tablespoon  butter 
1  teaspoon  butter                     1  tablespoon  flour 
Milk  sufficient  for  cream-     1  cup  milk 

ing  potatoes  Paprika 

PREPARATION : 

First  peel  the  potatoes  and  have  ready  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water  so  that  when  the  fish  is  ready  for  the 
broiler  there  will  be  no  delay  in  cooking  the  potatoes. 
After  the  fish  is  cleaned  of  all  scales,  etc.,  remove  the 
head  and  tail.  The  fins  are  best  removed  by  making  an 
incision  each  side  of  them  and  drawing  them  out  en- 
tirely, instead  of  cutting  them  off  at  the  surface  which 
only  leaves  the  troublesome  small  bones  to  be  encoun- 
tered at  the  table.  In  removing  the  fins  on  the  back  of 
the  fish  carry  the  incision  on  each  side  of  the  fins  to  the 
neck.    In  this  way  you  can  take  away  the  line  of  small 

269 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

bones  between  the  head  and  the  back  fins  at  the  same 
time.  To  remove  the  remaining  bones  which  form  the 
skeleton,  first  expose  the  bones  by  scraping  away  the 
membrane  then  with  a  small,  thin  knife  the  flesh  can 
be  separated  from  the  skeleton  without  destroying  the 
shape. 

Have  the  plank  well  heated.  Then  lay  the  fish, 
skin  side  down,  upon  it  and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt. 

In  a  small  cup  have  prepared  the  juice  of  one-half 
a  lemon,  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
hot  water.  Baste  the  fish  with  this  quite  often.  Place 
the  fish  about  three  inches  below  the  broiler  fire.  When 
the  fish  is  seared  over  and  beginning  to  brown,  keep 
it  well  basted,  and  reduce  the  flame.  A  fish  weighing 
four  pounds  requires  about  half  an  hour  to  broil.  Be- 
fore removing  the  fish  from  the  oven  drain  and  mash 
the  potatoes,  adding  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  season 
and  when  well  mashed,  add  hot  milk  a  little  at  a  time 
until  the  potatoes  are  fluffy  and  creamy.  Preserve  the 
heat  of  the  potatoes  and  increase  the  delicacy  of  the 
flavor  by  adding  hot  milk  to  the  mashed  potatoes  instead 
of  cold  milk. 

When  the  potatoes  are  sufficiently  creamy  fill  the 
pastry  bag,  in  which  a  rose  tube  has  been  inserted,  and 
force  into  roses  on  the  plank  around  the  fish.  Garnish 
the  fish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

To  vary  the  ordinary  slices  of  lemon,  cut  each  slice 
almost  in  two,  leaving  one  side  of  the  rind  intact,  then 
turn  each  half  in  opposite  directions.  Dip  one  section 
in  very  finely  minced  well  dried  parsley.  Sprinkle  the 
other  section  with  paprika.  The  board  used  for  plank- 
ing fish  is  made  of  oak,  either  oblong  or  oval.  The 
large  size  is  about  16  by  10  inches  at  the  longest  and 
widest  dimension. 

270 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

A  shallow  pan  may  be  substituted  for  the  board  and 
inverted  in  the  broiler  pan,  placing  the  fish  on  the  bot- 
tom of  this  shallow  one  so  as  to  easily  remove.  In  that 
case,  dish  the  fish  carefully,  without  breaking,  onto  a 
large,  hot  platter,  the  platter  being  much  larger  than 
the  fish,  and  garnish  as  usual. 

SPANISH   FISH   STEW 

MATERIALS : 

1  onion  2  green  peppers 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  oil  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  cup  tomatoes  Minced  parsley 

Flour 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  slice  the  onion  and 
saute  it,  add  the  tomatoes,  green  peppers  and  season- 
ing. Bone  and  cut  the  fish  in  pieces  to  serve,  and  cook 
until  tender  in  the  stew  pan  without  having  the  mixture 
bubble.  When  tender  remove  onto  a  warm  platter. 
Garnish  with  minced  parsley,  and  surround  with  the 
sauce,  which  has  been  thickened  with  the  tablespoon  of 
flour. 

CRABS  NEWBURG  STYLE 

MATERIALS : 

1^  cups  crab  meat  3     egg  yolks 

1       oup  cream  ^  cup  sliced  or  button 

1       wine  glass  of  brown  mushrooms 

sherry  or  ^4  cup  Salt,  white  pepper  and  pap- 

rika to  season  highly 

PREPARATION: 

To  prepare  crab  meat  drop  the  crabs  one  at  a  time 
into  hot  water,  allowing  each  to  die  before  dropping  in 
the  next,  when  all  are  in  the  kettle  add  a  tablespoon 
of  salt,  cover  the  kettle  and  cook  just  below  the  boiling 

271 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

point,  about  half  an  hour.  When  cool  twist  off  the  legs, 
detach  the  aprons,  separate  the  shells,  remove  the 
stomach,  intestines  and  gills  or  "dead  men's  fingers." 
Place  the  butter  in  a  shallow  saucepan  and  when 
melted  add  the  crab  meat  and  mushrooms,  saute  about 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  sherry.  Whip  up  the  egg 
yolks  and  stir  them  in  the  cream  and  pour  into  the 
saucepan,  keeping  at  a  gentle  heat  till  of  a  creamy  con- 
sistency. Care  must  be  taken  not  to  cook  so  long  that 
the  egg  yolks  will  coagulate  or  harden  and  thus  cause 
the  mixture  to  curdle. 

CRABS 

The  soft-shell  crab  is  the  crab  in  a  state  of  transition 
after  having  discarded  the  shell.  When  the  lobster  or 
crab  outgrows  its  shell,  it  has  the  power  of  splitting  it 
down  the  back  and  drawing  itself  out  of  it,  retiring  to 
a  secluded  place  until  the  new  shell  becomes  hard  and 
protective.  The  new  shell  becomes  hard  in  a  few  days, 
hence  the  scarcity  of  the  soft-shell  variety. 

Some  epicures  consider  the  soft-shell  crab  a  dainty 
while  others  may  feel  rightly  that  any  animal  in  this 
state  of  moulting  is  not  in  the  best  of  condition. 

Crabs  are  in  season  from  May  to  September.  One  of 
the  nicest  ways  of  serving  crabs  is  scalloped  or  au 
gratin. 

CRABS  AU  GRATIN 

If  the  crab  is  purchased  alive,  put  it  into  warm 
water  and  allow  it  to  slowly  reach  the  boiling  point. 
Cook  for  one-half  hour.  Remove  from  the  water  and 
cool.  Twist  off  the  legs  and  pull  off  the  aprons,  the 
loose  flaps  on  the  under  shell.  Remove  the  stomach, 
which  is  just  underneath  the  head,  also  the  little  twist 
of  intestines  and  the  gills.  Take  out  the  meat  and  cut 
in  small  pieces.     Butter  well  a  shallow  baker  and 

272 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

sprinkle  with  cracker  meal,  and  then  a  layer  of  crab 
meat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter, 
sprinkle  with  cheese.  Then  another  layer  of  cracker 
meal  and  another  of  crab  meat,  having  the  top  one  of 
cracker  meal  sprinkled  with  the  grated  cheese.  Pour 
one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  on  one  tablespoon  of 
grated  horseradish  and  baste  the  dish  generously  with 
the  liquor  without  putting  in  any  of  the  horseradish. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour.  If  de- 
sired individual  ramekins  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
baker. 

LOBSTER    COCKTAIL 

Extract  the  meat  and  cut  it  into  pieces  that  are  as 
nearly  dice-like  as  possible.  Chill  the  meat  thoroughly 
and  serve  it  with  a  glass  of  the  most  savory  of  cocktail 
sauces  as  an  accompaniment. 

Remember  that  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  green  pep- 
per minced  in  each  glass  will  improve  and  add  a  delicacy 
to  any  kind  of  cocktail  or  salad. 

DEVILED    CLAMS 

MATERIALS : 

2  dozen  clams  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Bread  crumbs  Salt,  pepper  and  Worcester- 

1  teaspoon  grated  onion  shire  sauce  to  season 

1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

PREPARATION: 

Chop  fine  the  clams,  removing  the  tough  parts.  Mix 
with  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning. 

Put  into  clam  shells  or  ramekins,  dot  with  butter 
and  bake  till  a  light  brown. 

FRIED  SCALLOPS 

Select  scallops  with  a  yellowish  instead  of  the  white 
color,  the  latter  were  soaked  in  soda  water  to  bleach  and 

273 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

make  them  swell.  Rinse  them  quickly  in  cold  water  and 
dry  well.  Dip  them  in  a  cooked  or  bottled  salad  dressing, 
roll  them  in  bread  or  cracker  meal  and  fry,  preferably 
in  deep  fat  or  oil. 

Serve  these  with  slices  of  broiled  bacon  and  a  sauce 
Tartare. 

CUTLETS   OF   PIKE 

Procure  a  pike  weighing  from  three  to  four  pounds. 
After  carefully  cleaning  and  scaling  remove  the  head 
very  close  and  with  a  sharp,  thin  knife  remove  the  fin 
that  is  beneath  the  skin.  Take  out  the  backbone  and 
cut  off  the  very  thin  strip  from  the  underside  of  the  fish. 
These  three  latter  trimmings  can  be  converted  into  a 
nice  fish  soup  stock  by  placing  them  in  a  saucepan,  cov- 
ering with  cold  water  and  allowing  them  to  simmer 
slowly  for  one  hour.  Salt,  strain  and  put  away  to  keep 
cool  until  the  following  day,  when  you  will  be  prepared 
with  the  foundation  for  a  puree  of  pike.  The  left-over 
cutlets  may  be  freed  from  skin  and  flaked  into  the  puree. 

To  resume.  When  the  fish  is  thus  ready,  cut  it  in 
inch  and  a  half  wide  strips  across  the  fish. 

Have  a  dish  of  cracker  meal  well  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Dip  the  cutlets  in  this  and  roll  up,  secur- 
ing each  one  with  a  toothpick,  or  running  them  onto  a 
skewer.  Saute  the  cutlets  in  oil  and  serve  them  with 
potato  shoestrings  and  an  appropriate  sauce  all  on  the 
same  service  plate. 

BROILED  LAKE  TROUT 

This  fish  is  so  rich  that  it  yields  readily  to  broiling. 

It  is  a  little  more  convenient  to  use  two  long,  shal- 
low pans  for  this. 

After  cleaning  the  trout  make  two  slits  with  a  sharp 
knife  from  the  center  back  to  the  head  and  remove  the 
blubber,  or  fat,  with  the  small  bones  imbedded.    Then 

274 


THE        CALUMET        COOK       BOOK 

split  it  open.  Place  in  the  pan  skin  side  up.  Place  in 
the  gas  broiler  with  the  flame  turned  about  half  on. 
Leave  for  about  ten  minutes.  Take  from  the  oven  and 
remove  the  skin.  The  flesh  will  be  found  to  be  juicy 
and  rich.  Season  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper. 
Turn  the  other  shallow  pan  onto  the  fish  and  turn  it 
over,  thus  exposing  the  inside  of  the  trout  to  the  broiler 
flame.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Return  to  the 
broiler  and  leave  under  a  gentle  flame  for  about  fifteen 
minutes,  if  the  fish  is  thick.  Ten  minutes'  broiling  is 
sufficient  for  each  side  of  a  three-pound  lake  trout. 
Serve  with  a  simple  horseradish  sauce. 

FLOUNDERS 

The  flounder  is  an  ocean  fish  that  comes  to  our 
markets.  It  is  a  very  flat  fish,  very  dark  on  one  side 
and  light  on  the  other.  It  may  be  broiled,  boiled  or 
served  as  a  fillet.  When  you  read  "fillet  of  sole"  on  the 
bill  of  fare,  it  is  really  fillet  of  flounder. 

A  "fillet"  of  fish  are  strips  of  fish  with  the  bone  re- 
moved and  the  strips  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
rolled  up  and  fastened  with  a  small  skewer.  The  strips 
may  be  about  an  inch  and  a  half  wide. 

These  fillets  may  be  dipped  in  egg,  then  in  seasoned 
cracker  meal  or  flour  and  fried  in  deep  oil,  using  a  fry- 
basket.  Or  they  may  be  sauted  in  shallow  oil  or  drip- 
pings. 

TO   PLANK   SHAD   UNDER   A   GAS   BROILER 

The  plank  should  be  made  of  kiln-dried  oak,  hickory 
or  ash,  the  first  having  the  preference.  It  may  be  made 
oval  or  round  and  should  be  about  one  inch  thick. 

Heat  it  well,  oiling  the  top,  split  the  shad  down  the 
middle.  Remove  the  bones.  Lay  skin  side  down  on  the 
board.     Turn  over  the  thin  middle  portions,  season 

275 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  baste  with  a  mixture  of 
one-fourth  cup  of  water,  juice  of  one-half  lemon  and 
two  teaspoons  of  oil  or  butter. 

Place  quite  near  the  gas  flame  for  about  five  minutes, 
then  place  lower  in  the  broiler  and  reduce  the  flame. 
Baste  two  or  three  times  with  the  water  and  lemon  juice. 

A  medium  thick  fish  will  require  about  half  an  hour. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  allow  the  fish  to  dry  out. 

About  five  minutes  before  removing  from  the  broiler 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  return  to  the  oven  till 
the  cheese  is  delicately  brown. 

When  finished,  remove  all  trace  of  grease  or  drip- 
pings from  the  edge  of  the  plank  with  paper  or  a  soft 
cloth.  Surround  with  Saratoga  potatoes.  Garnish 
down  the  center  with  half  slices  of  lemon  dipped  in  dry 
minced  parsley  alternating  with  other  half  slices 
sprinkled  with  paprika.    Serve  with  Roe  sauce. 

FRESH    COD 

This  is  one  of  the  nicest  of  sea  foods,  having  a  flavor 
and  texture  that  are  dainty  and  delicate,  very  unlike 
the  salted  cod  that  all  are  more  or  less  familiar  with. 

Fried  cod  may  be  prepared  much  as  other  fish,  tak- 
ing the  precaution  which  I  so  often  insist  upon,  that  of 
cooking  all  kinds  of  fish  so  that  the  flesh  will  not  be 
dried  out.  I  find  this  fault  with  many  cooks.  They  are 
often  careless  in  the  cooking  of  fish. 

Boiling  is  the  least  desirable  method  of  cooking  fish. 
It  robs  any  fish  of  its  best  flavor  and  delicacy.  If  bak- 
ing, broiling  or  frying  is  not  desirable,  steam  the  fresh 
fish.  The  quality  is  thus  retained  instead  of  dissipated 
into  the  water  as  in  boiling. 

For  any  recipe  calling  for  boiled  fresh  fish  try  steam- 
ing and  learn  what  a  delicate  dish  you  may  have. 

276 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

FRIED   FRESH    COD 

The  tail  end  of  the  fresh  cod  is  particularly  nice  fried 
in  shallow  fat  or  oil.  Scale  it,  but  do  not  take  off  the 
skin. 

Place  in  a  heavy  iron  or  aluminum  frying  pan  three 
level  tablespoons  of  oil  or  fat.  Put  in  the  cod,  turn  the 
fire  low,  cover  the  pan  and  cook  until  almost  cooked  on 
the  under  side.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  turn 
the  fish.  Cover  and  cook  until  finished.  In  all  it  will 
require  about  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

Now  have  ready  a  warm  platter.  Split  the  skin 
down  the  center  of  the  upper  side  and  pull  it  away. 
Turn  the  fish  onto  the  platter  and  remove  the  balance 
of  the  skin.  In  this  way  you  have  all  of  the  delicacy, 
flavor  and  nutriment  preserved  to  the  fish  and  yet 
served  without  the  offensive  skin.  The  skin,  after 
cooking,  removes  very  easily  in  this  way  and  leaves  the 
flesh  underneath  it  unbroken. 

Pour  over  the  cod  an  egg  sauce. 

CRAPPIES 

Crappie  are  usually  served  so  crisp  and  dry  that  the 
diner  has  little  upon  his  plate  but  a  mess  of  crust  and 
bone.  Then,  if  he  has  been  a  disciple  of  Isaac  Walton, 
he  will  sit  back  in  his  chair  and  talk  reminiscently  of 
the  good  old  times  when  he  used  to  sneak  away  with 
rod  and  line,  and  smack  his  lips  over  the  memory  of 
bygone  feasts,  when  he  and  his  companions  used  to 
wrap  the  fish  up  in  leaves  and  a  covering  of  clay  and 
cook  them  in  the  hot  ashes  of  their  brushwood  fire. 
Their  only  sauce  was  appetite,  but  let  me  assure  you 
that  those  fish  cooked  in  that  way  had  all  of  their 
delicacy  retained,  and  were  indeed  epicurean  treats. 

Procure  fish  as  fresh  from  the  water  as  possible. 
After  scaling  and  cleaning  and  removing  the  head, 

277 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

draw  a  sharp  knife  each  side  of  the  fins  on  the  back  from 
the  head  downward,  and  the  same  on  the  lower  side. 
The  fins  can  thus  be  removed  easily ;  then  when  the  fish 
is  placed  on  the  table,  it  is  a  very  easy  matter  to  separate 
the  flesh  from  the  backbone,  slipping  the  knife  between 
the  bone  and  the  flesh  at  the  back  and  removing  the  up- 
per half  entire.  It  then  leaves  the  rack  to  be  taken  from 
the  lower  portion.  This  is  particularly  important  to 
the  head  of  the  table,  as  the  larger  fish  can  be  served  in 
two  portions,  leaving  the  rack  on  the  platter.  This  will 
appeal  to  the  careful  mother  where  there  are  little  folk 
at  the  table. 

FINNAN  HADDIE,  DELMONICO 

Select  a  thick  fish,  place  skin  side  down  in  a  wide 
saucepan  or  frying  pan,  cover  with  warm  water  and  let 
stand  for  about  half  an  hour.  Then  place  over  a  slight 
flame  and  let  simmer  about  one-half  hour.  Drain,  re- 
move all  the  skin  carefully  into  flakes  and  sprinkle  with 
lemon  juice.  Make  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  milk  and  one 
rounding  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Add  the 
haddie,  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  with 
points  of  lightly  browned  toast. 

If  au  gratin  is  desired,  pour  the  haddie  and  cream 
sauce  into  a  shallow  saucepan,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese  and  bread  crumbs  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  till 
lightly  browned  over. 


LOBSTER  a  la  NEWBURG 


MATERIALS ; 


1     large  lobster  2  level  tablespoons  butter 

Y-z  cup  sherry  Salt  and  white  pepper  or  pap- 
3     egg  yolks  rika  to  season 

Yi.  cup  cream 

278 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

PREPARATION : 

Cook  the  lobster  by  dropping  into  boiling  water  and 
then  setting  the  kettle  off  the  fire,  allowing  it  to  stand 
ten  minutes.  Take  out  and  drain.  Place  the  lobster 
on  its  back.  Cut  down  the  center  from  the  head  to  the 
tail.  Take  out  the  meat  and  cut  into  inch  pieces.  Put 
them  into  the  saucepan  with  butter  and  seasoning,  cook 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  sherry  and  simmer  five  min- 
utes. Beat  the  yolks  in  with  the  cream  and  add  slowly 
to  the  lobster.    Serve  on  triangles  of  toast. 

This  is  a  popular  chafing  dish  recipe. 

Canned  lobster  may  be  substituted  for  the  fresh. 

BAKED    SHAD   ROE— CREOLE 

Procure  a  good  sized  roe,  rinse  carefully  in  cold 
water  then  drop  it  into  boiling  hot  salted  water.  Do 
not  have  the  water  boiling  at  a  gallop,  or  it  will  disturb 
the  arrangement  of  the  roe.  Let  stand  about  ten  min- 
utes, keeping  the  water  at  the  same  temperature.  Take 
about  a  half  cup  of  cracker  meal  and  add  a  rounding 
tablespoon  of  flour,  a  dash  of  either  pepper  or  paprika 
and  salt  to  season.  Roll  the  shad  roe  in  this  and  place 
in  a  saucepan  or  small  dripping  pan.  Surround  with 
one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  in  which  have  been  mixed  one 
onion  and  one  green  pepper  minced  fine.  Season  also 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Take  slices  of  bacon  about  one- 
eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  them  into  strips  of 
the  same  width  with  a  pair  of  shears.  Pretty  well  cover 
the  top  of  the  roe  with  these  shoestrings  of  bacon. 
Place  in  a  moderate  oven  until  about  warmed  through, 
then  increase  the  heat  and  finish  in  a  hot  oven.  This 
all  will  require  about  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 
Baste  frequently  with  the  tomato  sauce. 

It  may  be  necessary  to  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the 
sauce  and  when  taken  from  the  oven  thicken  i£  neces- 
sary with  some  of  the  cracker  meal. 

279 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

SHAD   ROE 

The  season  for  fresh  roe  lasts  until  about  June  and 
the  prices  of  shad  roe  range  from  thirty-five  cents  to 
sixty  cents  and  sometimes  more.  This  means  per  set, 
not  per  pound,  and  the  sets  vary.  Sometimes  a  set 
will  not  be  large  enough  to  more  than  serve  two  per- 
sons and  then,  as  the  season  advances,  one  set  will 
serve  several.  Prices  for  shad  roe  always  range  higher 
at  the  opening  of  the  season  and,  paradoxically,  as  the 
roe  grows  larger  the  price  grows  smaller.  The  shad 
roe  can  be  obtained  without  purchasing  the  fish  itself. 

BOUILLA-BAISSE 

This  dish  is  varied  according  to  the  place  where  it  is 
made,  depending  upon  what  the  market  affords.  It  is 
often  made  up  in  much  simpler  form  than  the  following 
and  resembles  somewhat,  our  fish  chowders: 


MATERIALS: 

3 

tablespoons  of  olive 

1  pound  of  salmon 

oil 

1  dozen  clams  or  oysters 

1 

clove  of  garlic 

2  fresh  tomatoes  or  equiva- 

1 

pound  of  halibut 

lent  canned,  with  seeds 

1 

bay  leaf 

removed 

V^ 

lemon 

1  large  Bermuda  onion 

1 

small  boiled  lobster 

1  green  pepper 

2 

cloves 

Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

1 

tablespoon  minced 
parsley 

Slices  of  toast  one  inch  thick 

PREPARATION : 

Mince  the  onion  and  garlic,  cook  to  a  delicate  brown 
in  a  large  kettle,  with  the  oil.  Then  add  the  fish,  cut  in 
large  pieces,  the  lemon  sliced,  the  bay  leaf,  garlic,  green 
pepper  minced,  the  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 

Cover  and  cook  gently  for  one  and  one-half  hours, 
add  about  three  cups  of  water  and  simmer.    Wash  the 

280 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

oysters  and  add  them  when  the  fish  is  cooked.  Take  the 
meat  from  the  lobster  in  pieces,  right  size  to  serve. 
Around  the  rim  of  a  large  deep  platter  arrange  the  slice 
of  toast,  from  which  the  crusts  have  been  trimmed, 
place  the  lobster  meat  in  the  center  and  the  other  fish 
surrounding  it.  Distribute  the  oysters  on  the  pieces  of 
toast,  season  the  liquor  without  straining  and  pour  over 
all.    Sprinkle  with  the  parsley.    Serve  in  soup  plates. 

FROGS'  LEGS,  DELMONICO 

Cleanse  the  frogs'  legs  and  drop  into  boiling  water, 
cover  and  let  them  remain  in  it  ten  minutes,  where  the 
water  will  remain  hot,  but  not  boil.  Prepare  a  sauce 
by  putting  one  pint  of  milk  in  double  boiler.  Cream  to- 
gether one  rounding  tablespoon  of  butter  with  one  of 
flour.  Stir  this  into  the  milk  and  cook  till  creamy. 
Season  well  with  paprika  and  salt  and  the  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon.  Mince  one  green  pepper  very  fine  and  add 
to  the  sauce. 

The  meat  must  then  be  removed  from  the  bones  in 
as  large  pieces  as  possible  and  stirred  into  the  sauce. 
Line  a  serving  dish  with  points  of  toast  and  over  the 
sauce.    Serve  hot. 

FROGS'  LEGS,  FRIED 

The  most  popular  form  of  serving  frogs'  legs  is  fried. 
Trim  off  the  claws,  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  let 
stand  for  three  minutes  to  blanch.  Drain  them  and  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  roll  them  in  well  seasoned  cracker  meal 
and  flour.  Mix  with  the  cracker  meal  about  one-third 
as  much  flour,  and  season  it  all  with  salt  and  paprika. 
After  rolling  the  frogs'  legs  in  the  preparation,  place 
them  in  a  fry  basket  and  fry  in  deep  oil  or  fat.  They 
are  so  small  that  it  is  difficult  to  handle  them  in  any 
quantity  in  a  frying  pan  and  they  will  not  absorb  nearly 
so  much  fat  if  fried  in  the  deep  kettle.  But  many  never 
fry  them  any  other  way  than  in  shallow  fat. 

281 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


Let  me  impress  upon  my  readers  the  absolute  neces- 
sity of  cooking,  either  frying  or  sauteing,  fish  in  vege- 
table oil.  After  fish  has  once  been  served  in  all  its  deli- 
cacy, nicely  browned  and  free  from  the  taint  of  animal 
fat,  the  family  will  never  tolerate  any  other  method  of 
cooking.  It  is  not  especially  necessary  to  have  a  kettle 
of  deep  oil.  Take  the  ordinary  frying  pan  and  put  into 
it  a  couple  of  tablespoons  of  any  of  the  cooking  oils,  olive 
oil  if  you  can  afford  it.  Place  the  pan  over  a  medium 
heat,  if  using  a  gas  or  gasoline  range  place  an  asbestos 
or  soapstone  mat  under  the  pan  and  lower  the  flame. 
Fish  does  not  require  any  more  heat  than  frying  of  pan- 
cakes, only  more  time.  Place  them  in  the  pan  and  cover 
it.  When  cooked  on  one  side  turn  with  a  pancake 
turner. 

Fish  may  be  rolled  in  cornmeal,  flour  or  cracker 
meal. 

PIGS   IN  BLANKETS 

Select  large  oysters,  rinse  well  and  lay  upon  a  napkin 
to  drain.  Have  ready  some  cracker  meal  seasoned  with 
a  dash  of  paprika.  Prepare  thin  slices  of  bacon,  long 
enough  to  go  once  and  a  half  around  each  oyster.  Roll 
each  oyster  in  the  cracker  meal  and  roll  around  each  one 
a  slice  of  bacon,  fastening  it  with  a  toothpick.  Place 
them  into  a  dripping  pan  and  into  a  rather  quick  oven 
until  the  bacon  is  crisped.  Send  to  the  table  on  a  hot 
platter  with  slices  of  lemon.  When  the  appetite  is 
jaded  and  nothing  looks  tempting,  try  the  pigs  in 
blankets. 

OYSTERS  en  BROCHETTE 

Prepare  oysters  as  in  preceding  recipe.  Cut  bacon 
into  square  pieces.  Place  squares  of  bacon  and  oysters 
alternately  on  skewers.  Place  in  shallow  pan,  bake 
about  twenty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

282 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

OYSTERS 

The  recipes  written  by  Eastern  writers  on  cookery 
often  have,  as  part  of  the  preparation,  "heat  the  oysters 
in  their  own  liquor."  This  is  understood  by  most  read- 
ers who  have  not  lived  on  the  coast,  to  mean  the  liquor 
in  which  they  come  shipped  in  pails  or  sealed  in  cans 
from  the  coast.  This  liquor  is  largely  water  and  stale 
water  at  that. 

What  the  Eastern  writer  intends  is  the  liquor  con- 
tained in  the  shell  of  the  oyster  as  it  is  marketed  in  its 
natural  state,  in  the  shell. 

The  little  bivalve  is  considered,  by  those  familiar  with 
its  habitat,  a  little  scavenger  at  best  and  by  many  par- 
ticular persons  even  the  liquor  contained  in  the  shell  is 
discarded  and  the  oysters  rinsed  in  fresh  water.  These 
particular  persons  claim  that  this  liquor  is  only  "sewer 
water."  Therefore  it  must  be  apparent  that  the  water 
in  which  they  are  shipped  must  be  quite  unfit  for  the 
oyster  stew,  contrary  to  the  thrifty  cook  who  explained 
that  "A  quart  of  oysters  goes  a  long  way,  the  big 
oysters  can  be  fried  while  the  small  ones  and  the  juice 
will  make  the  best  kind  of  a  stew." 

In  this  connection  it  is  interesting  to  note  the  atti- 
tude of  the  orthodox  Jewish  people  toward  the  oyster 
among  other  proscribed  foods.  It  is  being  more  than 
ever  impressed  upon  the  attention  of  medical  scientists 
that  the  longevity  of  the  orthodox  Jew  was  due  to  the 
nature  of  his  food  and  the  habits  of  his  living.  Their 
fundamental  principles  of  cookery  were  based  upon  cer- 
tain hygienic  dietary  laws  and  as  long  as  these  laws 
were  heeded,  long  life,  contented  minds  and  freedom 
from  digestive  woes  was  their  portion. 

Sea  or  fresh  water  food  that  is  permitted  in  the 
orthodox  Jewish  cuisine  is  classified  as  fish,  having  fins 
and  scales,  thus  prohibiting  shell  fish. 

283 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

OYSTERS    au    GRATIN 

MATERIALS: 

1     pint  of  oysters  (small  2  level  tablespoons    dried 

ones)  parsley 

y2  cup  of  hot  water  2  eggs 

1  cup  of  milk  Salt,  paprika,  grated  cheese 

2  level  tablespoons  butter  and  bread  crumbs 
2  level  tablespoons  flour 

PREPARATION : 

Rinse  and  drain  the  oysters,  pour  over  them  the 
half  cup  of  hot  water  and  put  them  over  hot  water  while 
preparing  the  sauce.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together 
in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  milk  and  cook  till  creamy, 
then  stir  into  the  oysters.  Beat  up  the  eggs  and  stir 
into  the  mixture,  season  to  taste  with  the  salt  and 
paprika. 

Place  in  greased  ramekins  or  shells.  Sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  hot  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  the  crushed  dried 
parsley  and  serve. 


284 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 


SOUPS  AND  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

FORCE   MEAT   BALLS 
(To  serve  with  Consomme) 


MATERIALS : 


cup  finely  minced 

Yz  teaspoon  each  of  salt 

cooked  meat,  pref- 

pepper and  onion  juice 

erably  chicken, 

1     tablespoon  of  minced 

veal,  tongue  or  ham 

parsley 

level  tablespoon  each  of 

1     cup  milk 

flour  and  butter 

Pinch  of  mace 

PREPARATION : 

Put  the  butter  into  a  dish  over  hot  water,  add  the 
flour  and  next  the  milk,  then  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  cook.  Turn  out  to  cool  and  when  cold  form  into 
marbles,  roll  in  ^^^  and  then  in  cracker  meal  and  drop 
into  deep  oil  or  fat  and  fry  a  golden  brown.  Turn  from 
the  fry-basket  onto  paper  and  then  roll  in  minced  dried 
parsley. 

KNOEFLI 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly  and  add  one-fourth  cup  of 
milk.  Add  this  gradually  to  one  cup  of  flour  in  which 
has  been  sifted  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Place  a  colander  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Turn  the  batter  into  the  colander  and  with  a  puree  sieve 
stamper  or  with  a  wooden  potato  masher  work  the  bat- 
ter through  it.  As  soon  as  the  buttons  come  to  the  top 
of  the  water,  dip  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  put  them 
in  a  hot  vegetable  dish.  Sprinkle  with  cheese  and  a 
dash  of  paprika.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  or  under  the  broiler 
fire  for  a  few  moments. 

CROUTONS 

To  make  croutons  to  serve  with  soups,  cut  bread  in 
slices  one-half  inch  thick,  trim  the  crusts  and  cut  in 

285 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

squares.  If  to  be  browned  in  the  oven,  butter  lightly 
before  cutting  in  squares,  put  on  a  baking  sheet,  dry 
throughout  and  brown  delicately.  These  are  more  di- 
gestible than  when  fried. 

DUMPLINGS,  FORCE-MEAT  BALLS 

It  will  be  found  more  satisfactory  in  most  cases  to 
cook,  either  boil  or  steam,  the  dumplings  and  force- 
meat balls  in  a  different  vessel  from  that  in  which  the 
soup,  consomme  or  bouillon  are  making. 

Following  is  a  group  of  accessories  for  soups  and 
consommes.  With  many  of  them  it  will  be  found  neces- 
sary to  dip  in  slightly  beaten  egg,  so  that  the  water  will 
not  break  them. 

Many  of  them  are  suitable  to  serve  with  the  fish 
course  and  in  that  case  they  would  be  dipped  in  egg, 
then  in  cracker  meal  and  dropped  into  deep  oil  and  fried, 
and  then  perhaps  rolled  in  dry  minced  parsley. 

The  latter  method  may  be  followed  for  the  soup 
course,  serving  on  side  dish  if  preferred.  They  do  not 
so  readily  deteriorate  if  not  served  immediately  as  when 
cooked  in  boiling  water. 

EGG  DUMPLINGS 

MATERIALS : 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  1  egg  white 

1  tablespoon  grated  cheese     Salt  and  pepper  or  paprika 

PREPARATION: 

Run  the  hard  boiled  eggs  through  the  food  chopper 
or  chop  fine  in  wooden  bowl,  add  the  cheese  and  as  much 
of  the  egg  white  to  bind  the  ingredients,  add  the  season- 
ing. Form  into  marbles,  drop  into  boiling  water.  Lift 
carefully  with  a  skimmer. 

286 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

DUMPLINGS  DUCHESS 
MATERIALS : 

Yz  cup  bread  crumbs  Yz  cup  soft  cheese 

1     egg  Salt  and  cayenne 

PREPARATION: 

Combine  all  of  the  ingredients,  form  into  marbles, 
dip  in  beaten  ^^%,  drop  into  boiling  water. 

MARROW    BALLS 

MATERIALS : 

Yi.  cup  bread  crumbs  Ya  cup  chopped  marrow 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion     1     egg 
Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION : 

Combine  materials  with  the  yolk  of  the  ^gg,  form 
into  marbles  size  of  walnuts.  Dip  in  slightly  beaten  egg 
white.  Drop  into  boiling  water,  as  soon  as  they  float 
remove  (about  three  minutes). 

CUSTARD  BLOCKS  FOR  CONSOMME  ROYAL 

MATERIALS: 

2  tablespoons  milk  Y2.  teaspoon  clear  onion  juice 
Salt  to  season  1     egg 

PREPARATION : 

Beat  the  ^%^  until  well  mixed,  add  the  milk  and  salt 
and  onion  juice.  Turn  into  shallow  pans  so  that  the 
depth  of  custard  will  be  about  one  inch.  Set  the  pan  in 
another  of  hot  water  and  into  the  oven  till  well  set. 

Turn  out  carefully  and  cut  into  square,  round  or 
fancy  shapes. 

PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS 

Shell  and  blanch  a  pint  of  chestnuts.  Cover  them 
with  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  add  a  slice  of  onion,  a 
little  chopped  celery,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  dash  of  paprika. 

287 


THE   CALUMET   COOK   BOOK 

Boil  gently  for  thirty  minutes,  press  through  a  colander. 
Add  a  pint  of  stock  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Allow  this  to 
come  to  the  boiling  point.  Cream  together  two  level 
tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Stir  this  into  the 
soup  until  smooth.    Season  and  serve. 

FISH   CHOWDER 
MATERIALS : 

1     pound  of  halibut  or  1  medium  onion 

fresh  water  fish  free  2  medium  potatoes 

from  bones,  uncooked  1  green  pepper 

Yi  pound  salt  pork  or  fat  1  cup  rich  milk 

bacon  (diced)  Salt  and  pepper  to  season 

PREPARATION : 

Put  the  diced  pork  or  bacon  into  stew  pan  and  brown 
slightly,  drop  in  the  onions  and  pepper.  Then  throw  in 
the  fish  which  has  been  cut  into  pieces  as  large  as  a  small 

egg. 

When  seared  over  add  one-half  cup  of  water,  place 
the  potatoes  on  top  and  cook  till  they  are  soft. 

Then  turn  in  the  cup  of  milk  with  the  seasoning  of 
salt  and  pepper.    Cook  up  for  five  minutes. 

Serve  hot. 

Note: — If  the  fish  is  soft  and  apt  to  cook  to  pieces, 
put  the  potatoes  into  the  drippings  instead  of  the  fish. 
Then  later  add  the  fish ;  cover  and  cook. 

SOUP    STOCK 

Beef  is  the  chief  source  of  soup  stock  although  all 
meats  and  fowl  when  stewed,  can  supply  stock.  Stock 
from  fresh  fish  is  suitable  for  fish  soups.  Beef  stock 
is  usually  the  most  economical.  The  cheaper  the  cut 
for  soup  the  better. 

The  bones  of  the  meat  furnish  mineral  matter  and 
gelatin.  Gelatin  is  also  obtained  from  cartilage,  skin 
tendons,  and  ligaments. 

288 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

If  the  caramelized  flavor  is  desired  the  meat  may 
be  sauted  and  browned  in  fat  before  putting  into  the 
stock  kettle  but  this  is  a  cumbersome  and  old  fashioned 
method. 

Better  results  are  obtained  by  allowing  meat  and 
bones,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  to  stand  in  warm  water 
half  an  hour,  then  place  over  low  heat  or  simmering 
burner  and  allow  to  cook  below  the  boiling  point  for 
half  a  day.  Endeavor  to  cook  at  such  a  low  point  of  heat 
that  there  will  be  no  scum  form  over  the  kettle  to  be 
skimmed  off,  as  the  scum  represents  so  much  coagulated 
albumin  of  the  meat  gone  to  waste. 

To  supply  the  caramel  flavor  and  color  add  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  caramel  prepared  according  to  directions 
for  caramel,  a  supply  of  which  should  always  be  kept 
on  hand. 

If  stock  is  made  from  veal,  lamb  or  mutton  scraps 
a  few  shavings  of  lemon  added  to  the  finished  soup 
add  an  agreeable  flavor. 

Soup  made  from  the  carcass  of  a  roast  fowl  has 
no  equal  for  flavor  and  nutrition. 

SCOTCH    SOUP 

MATERIALS : 

2  pounds  mutton  from  1     grated  turnip 

the  forequarter  1     grated  carrot 

3  quarts  cold  water  1     leek 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt  ^  cupful  flour 

1  onion  2    tablespoonfuls  barley 

PREPARATION: 

Cut  the  meat  into  pieces,  cover  with  the  cold  water 
to  which  the  salt  has  been  added.  Allow  to  cook  until 
the  meat  is  tender. 

Strain. 

889 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Add  the  vegetables  and  barley,  cook  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Blend  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water  and 
add  to  the  soup. 

Season  with  more  salt  and  pepper. 

JULIENNE    SOUP 

Julienne  soup  is  nothing  more  than  a  plain  soup 
stock  to  which  has  been  added  carrots,  turnips  or  par- 
snips cut  into  thin  strips  with  a  simple  seasoning  of 
salt  and  pepper. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Cut  up  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  a  parsnip,  an  onion  and  a 
root  of  celery.  Fry  these  a  delicate  brown  in  some  beef 
drippings  or  butterine,  then  turn  into  a  soup  kettle. 
Pour  over  the  vegetables  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  one- 
half  cup  of  rice,  sprig  of  parsley  and  one  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Boil  gently  for  one-half  hour.  Then  add  a  potato 
cut  into  dice.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  longer,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  stir  in  a  generous  lump  of  butter  and 
serve. 

EGG    CHOWDER 

Fry  four  slices  of  salt  pork  till  brown.  Pare  and 
dice  a  good  sized  potato  and  lay  over  the  pork,  cover 
with  water  and  simmer  until  tender,  then  add  three 
pints  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Bring  the  milk  to  a  scald  and  drop 
in  very  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  the  yolks  of 
six  eggs.  Allow  to  remain  hot,  but  not  boil,  about  five 
minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

SOUP   OF   LENTILS 

Lentils  are  rich  in  nitrogenous  matter,  more  so  than 
peas  or  beans,  and  it  is  presented  in  a  more  digestible 
form.  They  take  the  place  of  lean  meats  and  are  espe- 
cially adapted  to  a  vegetarian  diet. 

290 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Wash  the  lentils,  cover  them  with  cold  water  and 
soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain.  Add  a  quart  of 
stock  and  a  pint  of  water,  a  bay  leaf,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  dash  of  pepper,  and  simmer  for  about  two  hours 
until  the  lentils  are  tender. 

Press  through  a  colander,  then  rub  through  a  sieve 
and  return  to  the  puree  kettle.  Rub  a  level  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  one  of  flour  together,  add  them  to  the  soup 
and  stir  until  boiling.  Add  a  small  onion  grated,  boil, 
and  turn  into  a  tureen.    Serve  with  wafers. 

OXTAIL   SOUP 

MATERIALS : 

1  oxtail  1     teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  small  carrot  sauce 
Yi  teaspoon  salt  1     onion 

2  quarts  water  54  lemon 

A  dash  paprika 
PREPARATION: 

Singe  and  wash  the  oxtail,  then  cut  into  joints. 
Cover  with  the  water,  add  all  seasoning  and  vegetables 
and  simmer  gently  one  hour.  Strain  and  pick  out  the 
bits  of  oxtail,  add  them  to  the  strained  soup.  Heat 
again  and  put  into  the  tureen  the  half  lemon  cut  into 
thin  slices  and  then  cut  into  quarters  and  add  the 
Worcestershire  sauce. 

SOUP  OF  FRIJOLE 
MATERIALS : 

1       pint  beans  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1       quart   good  stock  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

1      lemon  1  saltspoon  pepper 

V/z  quarts  boiling  water 

PREPARATION : 

Wash  the  beans,  drain,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
soak  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  again  and 
cover  with  the  boiling  water.  Cover  the  kettle  and  boil 
slowly  for  about  two  hours  until  the  beans  are  very 

291 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

tender.  Add  the  salt,  pepper  and  stock.  Press  the 
whole  through  a  colander,  then  through  a  sieve.  Rinse 
the  kettle,  return  the  soup  to  it  and  bring  to  boiling 
point.  Cut  the  eggs  and  lemon  into  thin  slices  and  put 
them  into  the  tureen,  pour  over  the  boiling  thick  soup 
and  serve.  If  you  use  wine  put  four  tablespoons  of 
Madeira  into  the  tureen  with  the  Qgg  and  lemon. 
Serve  at  once. 

PEANUT  SOUP 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  add  a  half 
pint  of  peanut  butter,  a  small  onion  grated,  half  a  cup 
of  finely  chopped  celery  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper. 
Cover  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Moisten  a  level 
tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  add  to  the  hot  soup,  and  stir 
till  smooth  and  thick.  Strain  into  a  hot  tureen,  add  a 
dash  of  paprika  and  serve  with  croutons. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP 

Perhaps  there  is  some  corn  left  over.  Strain  through 
a  coarse  sieve  and  run  the  remaining  corn  through  the 
food  chopper  and  return  it  to  the  liquor,  put  sufficient 
sweet  milk  in  the  double  boiler  with  a  thin  slice  of  onion 
minced  fine,  add  the  corn  and  scald  well.  Add  a  little 
thickening  by  creaming  butter  and  fiour  in  the  pro- 
portion of  a  rounding  teaspoon  of  each  to  a  pint  of 
milk.    Season  and  serve  with  wafers. 

Any  left  over  canned  vegetables  may  be  treated  in 
the  same  way.  A  combination  of  celery  and  peas  is 
delicious.  Cook  the  celery,  after  cutting  it  into  quarter 
inch  lengths,  making  the  cream  first  and  adding  the 
peas. 

The  liquor  in  which  the  celery  was  cooked  may  be 
used. 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

TOMATO    CUP 
MATERIALS : 

1     quart  soup  stock  3  level  teaspoons  flour 


^2 


can  tomatoes  2  bay  leaves 


1  small  onion  Salt,  pepper  or  paprika  to 

4  whole  cloves  season 

1  tart  apple  (minced)  1  cup  whipped  cream 

3  level  teaspoons  butter 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  soup  stock,  tomatoes,  bay  leaves,  minced 
onion,  cloves,  and  apple  in  the  saucepan.  Cook  slowly 
one-half  hour,  strain,  add  the  seasoning  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, cream  the  butter  and  flour  and  stir  into  the  con- 
somme.   Cook  ten  minutes. 

Serve  in  cups  with  the  whipped  cream  on  top. 

CHERRY   SOUP 

For  one  quart  of  soup,  pit  and  crush  a  pint  of  cher- 
ries ;  add  to  them  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  sugar  to  taste, 
and  a  dessert  spoon  of  tapioca  or  sago.  Simmer  thirty 
minutes  with  a  quart  of  water;  rub  smooth  through  a 
sieve  and  re-heat,  adding  one  tablespoon  of  claret  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  cool,  then  place  on  ice  before  serv- 
ing. Reserve  a  few  stemmed  cherries  to  put  in  the  iced 
soup  at  the  last. 

BARLEY   SOUP 
MATERIALS : 

y^  cup  pearl  barley  Soup  stock 

Seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper 

PREPARATION : 

Wash  the  barley  through  several  waters.  Drop  into 
boiling  water  and  cook  about  one  hour  before  adding  to 
the  soup  stock,  then  add  it  with  the  water  in  which  it 
was  cooked. 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CREAM   OF   MOCK  OYSTER   SOUP 

Scrape,  cut  into  thin  slices  half  a  dozen  salsify  or 
vegetable  oyster.  Cook  till  very  tender  in  unsalted 
water.  Force  them  through  a  puree  sieve  into  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled  and  which  should  measure 
about  three  cups. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  heaping  tablespoon  each 
of  flour  and  butter  creamed  together  and  one  quart  of 
milk.  When  creamy  add  the  salsify.  Season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot  with  oyster  crackers. 

It  is  always  well  to  place  crackers  in  hot  oven  for  a 
few  moments  before  serving. 


CREAM 
MATERIALS: 

OF 

TOMATO   SOUP 

1     can  tomatoes 
1     teaspoon  salt 
Yz  teaspoon  soda 
1     teaspoon  sugar 
1     pint  milk 

1  heaping  tablespoon  each  of 

butter  and  flour 
Chili  pepper  to  season 
1  bay  leaf 
1  slice  onion 
3  cloves 
3  allspice 

PREPARATION : 

Place  the  tomatoes,  bay  leaf,  spices,  onion,  sugar, 
and  salt  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  strain.  Place  the 
milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler.  Cream  the  flour 
and  butter  and  add  it  to  the  milk.  Cook  until  creamy. 
Heat  the  tomato  juice  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  soda. 
Then  add  it  to  the  cream  sauce,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Serve  immediately. 

Do  not  cool  and  warm  over,  or  it  may  curdle.  The 
soda  may  be  omitted  if  a  more  acid  flavor  is  desired. 

CONSOMME  COLBERT 

Consomme  Colbert  is  a  clear  stock  well  seasoned,  in 
which  poached  eggs  are  dropped. 

294 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

CONSOMME   WITH   MACARONI 
Consomme  being  a  clear  stock,  it  would  become 

clouded  were  the  macaroni  to  be  cooked  in  it. 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  another  vessel  thirty  minutes, 

blanch,  cut  up  slightly  and  add  to  the  consomme. 

POTATO   SOUP 

MATERIALS : 

3  medium  potatoes  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter 

1  heaping  tablespoon  flour     1  quart  water 

1  pint  sweet  milk  or  1  Salt  and  pepper  to  season,  also 

cup  evaporated  milk  add  a  little  parsley. 

1  medium  onion 
PREPARATION : 

Peel  and  dice  the  potatoes,  put  them  over  to  cook  in 
the  quart  of  water  which  must  be  boiling.  Score  the 
onion  across  both  ways  several  times  and  slice  thin. 

When  the  potatoes  have  cooked  fifteen  minutes  add 
the  salt  and  onion  and  cook  till  potatoes  are  soft.  Add 
the  milk  and  the  butter  and  flour  which  have  been 
creamed. 

When  creamy,  season  with  pepper  and  minced 
parsley. 

Serve  with  croutons  of  bread. 

OKRA  SOUP 

Cut  okra  in  small  pieces  and  cook  tender  in  chicken 
stock.    Add  a  cup  of  boiled  rice,  season  well. 

CONSOMME  a  LTMPERATRICE 
MATERIALS : 

1     tablespoon  flour  1     tablespoon  minced  onion 

1     tablespoon  minced  1     tablespoon  butter 

parsley  ^  cup  cold  chicken  (cooked) 

Yz  cup  rice  (cooked)  Yz  cup  peas 

Yz  cup  milk  2     quarts  chicken  stock 

1     egg  Pepper,  salt  and  mace  to 

PREPARATION :  season 

Make  a  paste  of  the  cold  chicken,  add  it  to  a  thick 
cream  sauce  made  with  the  milk,  flour  and  butter.  Mix 
in  the  onion,  mace  and  parsley. 

295 


THE       CALUMET       COOK       BOOK 

Place  where  it  will  cool  and  then  form  into  balls,  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  meal  and  fry  in  hot  oil. 
Drain  carefully. 

In  the  meantime  the  rice  and  peas  are  cooked  and 
the  chicken  stock  heated  and  seasoned.  When  ready  to 
serve  put  the  rice  and  peas  in  the  tureen,  pour  over  them 
the  stock  and  drop  in  the  force-meat  balls. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS 
To  the  water  in  which  asparagus  is  cooked,  which 
should  measure  about  one  pint,  add  two  cups  of  milk. 
Heat  in  a  double  cooker  and  add  a  rounding  tablespoon 
of  flour  creamed  with  one  of  butter.  Cook  till  creamy 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  desired  sprinkle 
a  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese  over  the  soup  after  it  is 
dished  in  the  tureen. 

DUCHESSE    SOUP 
MATERIALS : 

1  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  cheese 

1  slice  onion  (grated) 

1  rounding  tablespoon  1  rounding  tablespoon  butter 

flour  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Salt  and  pepper 
PREPARATION : 

Heat  the  milk  with  the  onion,  when  scalded  add 
creamed  butter  and  flour.  Three  minutes  before  serv- 
ing add  cheese,  then  the  beaten  egg  yolks. 

This  must  not  stand. 


THE  CALUMET  COOK  BOOK 

IMPORTANT  EQUIVALENTS   TO    MEMORIZE 
1  quart  flour  (about)  is  equivalent  to  1  pound  avoirdupois. 
1  pint    sugar  (about)  is  equivalent  to  1  pound  avoirdupois. 
1  pint  butter  (about)  is  equivalent  to  1  pound  avoirdupois. 
1  quart  is  equivalent  to  4  cups,  liquid  measure. 
1  pint     is  equivalent  to  2  cups,  liquid  measure. 
"%.  pint     is  equivalent  to  1  cup,    liquid  measure. 

1  cup  is  equivalent  to  2  gills. 

2  gills  are  equivalent  to  8  fluid  ounces. 

16  level  tablespoons  are  equivalent  to    1    cup,  liquid  measure. 

8  level  tablespoons  are  equivalent  to  ^  cup,  liquid  measure. 
4  level  tablespoons  are  equivalent  to  54  cup»  liquid  measure. 

1  level  tablespoon  is  equivalent  to  3  level  teaspoonfuls. 

2  level  tablespoons  sugar   are  equivalent  to  1  ounce  avoirdupois. 
2  level  tablespoons  butter  are  equivalent  to  1  ounce  avoirdupois. 

4  level  tablespoons  cocoa  or  flour  are  equivalent  to  1  ounce  avoirdupois. 

2  level  tablespoons  liquid  are  equivalent  to  1  ounce  avoirdupois. 

3  level  teaspoons  are  equivalent  to  1  tablespoonful. 

2  level  teaspoons  are  equivalent  to  1  dessertspoonful. 

1  square  of  chocolate  is  equivalent  to  1  ounce  of  chocolate. 

1  square  of  grated  chocolate  is  equivalent  to  4  level  tablespoons  of  chocolate. 

9  or  10  eggs,  depending  upon  size,  are  equivalent  to  1  pound. 
Juice  of  1  lemon  is  equivalent  to  about  4  tablespoons, 

1  cup  of  egg  white  is  equivalent  to  about  8  egg  whites. 
1  cup  of  egg  yolk  is  equivalent  to  about  12  egg  yolks. 
1  cup  of  shelled  nuts  is  equivalent  to  about  4  ounces. 
Measures  are  always  level  unless  otherwise  stated. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  MEASURING: 

Dip  the  spoon  into  the  materials  and  strike  off  with  straight  edge  of  a 
knife. 

In  measuring  butter,  lard  or  margarine,  pack  the  cup  or  spoon  closely  and 
strike  off  with  the  straight  edge  of  a  knife. 

In  measuring  flour  in  the  cup  measure,  tap  the  measure  lightly  to  insure  of 
no  unfilled  spaces. 

To  measure  54  teaspoon  divide  a  level  teaspoonful  lengthwise. 

To  measure  ^  teaspoon  divide  the  half  teaspoon  once  crosswise. 

A  heaping  measure  whether  spoonful  or  cupful  means  all  the  measure  will 
hold. 

A  teaspoon  dipped  full  and  drawn  under  the  side  of  the  can  of  Calumet 
gives  practically  a  teaspoon  and  a  half.  This  is  a  quick  method  to  measure  the 
one  and  one-half  teaspoon  to  each  cup  of  flour  in  making  breads,  biscuit, 
muffins,  etc. 

In  measuring  Calumet  for  cakes,  dip  the  teaspoon  full  and  level  with 
a  knife,  one  teaspoonful  for  each  cupful  of  sifted  flour. 

The  measuring  cups  for  kitchen  use  vary  in  size.  Most  of  the  glass  and 
aluminum  are  the  half  pint  liquid  measure.  The  half  pint  dry  measuring  cup 
which  is  not  easily  distinguished  holds  two  level  tablespoonfuls  more  than  the 
liquid  measure. 

The  half  pint  based  on  the  dry  pint  measure  was  the  original  measuring 
cup  for  kitchen  use.  But  manufacturers  are  now  generally  making  the  kitchen 
measuring  cup  to  conform  to  the  United  States  Bureau  of  Standards'  standard 
liquid  measure.  The  small  difference  between  the  liquid  and  dry  measure  car- 
ries little  effect  in  the  making  of  breads  and  cakes,  so  long  as  the  several  in- 
gredients are  measured  in  the  same  size  cup  to  insure  proper  proportions. 

287 


