plli 


CAMP  STOVES 


AND 


FIREPLACES 


FOREST   SERVICE 
UNITED    STATES    DEPARTMENT    OF   AGRICULTURE 


From  the  collection  of  the 


7    n 
2  m 


0  Prejinger 
V    iJibrary 

p 


San  Francisco,  California 
2008 


J 


s 


'C) 


CAMP  STOVES 


AND 


FIREPLACES 

BY 
A.D.TAYLOR,  A.B.,  M.S. 

Consulting  Landscape  Architect  for  the 
United  States  Forest  Service 


PUBLISHED    BY 

Emergency  Conservation  Work 
Robert  Fechner,  Director 

PREPARED    BY 

The  Forest  Service 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 


UNITED    STATES    GOVERNMENT    PRINTING    OFFICE,    WASHINGTON  :  1937 


For  sale  by  the 

SUPERINTENDENT    OF   DOCUMENTS 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Price  $1.50  (Buckram) 


w 


THE  national  forests  with  their  lakes,  streams,  mountain  ranges,  and  mountain 
peaks,  including  an  area  more  than  five  times  as  large  as  all  New  England,  contain  a 
large  part  of  the  natural  outdoor  recreational  areas  in  the  United  States. 

The  Forest  Service  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  charged  with  the 
custodianship  of  the  national  forests,  considers  these  recreational  possibilities  as  public 
resources,  to  be  wisely  used  and  carefuUy  safeguarded.  Because  of  the  public  demand 
for  use  of  these  recreational  areas,  the  Forest  Service,  within  the  limits  of  the  funds  avail- 
able and  consistent  with  the  primary  purposes  for  which  the  national  forests  have  been 
created,  is  doing  everything  possible  to  properly  and  adequately  develop  these  recrea- 
tional resources  for  public  use. 

The  Civilian  Conservation  Corps,  during  the  last  3  years,  has  made  it  possible  to 
carry  on  an  extensive  program  of  work  in  the  development  of  these  recreational  areas 
which  otherwise  would  have  been  impossible  or  long  delayed. 

In  order  to  protect  the  forests  from  fire,  to  provide  sanitary  safeguards,  and  to  furnish 
suitable  public  conveniences,  it  has  been  necessary  to  designate  thousands  of  camp- 
grounds and  picnic  areas  and  to  provide  these  areas  with  simple  and  adequate 
improvements. 

On  the  great  majority  of  campgrounds  and  picnic  areas  fires  are  essential  for  cooking, 
for  campfires,  and  for  warming  fires.  To  fully  protect  the  forest  growth,  on  and  surrounding 
these  recreational  areas,  it  is  necessary  that  these  fires  be  confined  within  camp  stoves, 
fireplaces  and  campfire  circles.  The  importance  of  appropriate  design  for  these  features 
has  prompted  the  Forest  Service  to  make  a  careful  and  extensive  study  of  this  subject  in 
order  to  determine  the  types  of  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  best  adapted  to  use  under 
varying  conditions. 

This  subject  is  of  growing  significance  because  of  the  increasing  importance  of 
recreational  activities  not  only  in  the  national  forests;  but  on  all  recreational  areas 
throughout  the  United  States  in  connection  with  which  these  facilities  are  essential. 

Mr.  A.  D.  Taylor,  consulting  landscape  architect  for  the  Forest  Service,  made  a 
careful  study  of  this  problem  during  the  summer  and  fall  of  1935.  He  has  condensed  his 
findings  into  the  following  pages.  As  the  author  states,  it  is  fully  appreciated  that  this 
presentation  of  the  subject  cannot  be  considered  as  complete.  The  text  and  drawings 
represent  an  effort  at  this  time  to  make  available  in  clear  and  definite  form,  the  most 
authoritative  information  compiled  to  date  on  the  subject  of  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces. 

It  is  my  hope  that  this  publication  will  be  of  real  value  to  forest  officers  and  to 
the  thousands  of  others  responsible  for  the  planning  and  construction  of  recreational 
improvements  throughout  the  United  States. 

June  5,  1936. 


Chief,  Forest  Service. 


THE  tendency  for  an  increasing  number  of  people  to  procure  relief  from  the  physical  and 
mental  strain  of  earning  a  living,  by  seeking  the  atmosphere  of  nature  in  the  national 
forests,  parks,  and  in  thousands  of  other  similar  areas,  creates  an  important  problem  for 
those  who  are  concerned  in  meeting  the  needs  of  recreation.  The  problem  of  providing 
campground  and  picnic-area  facilities,  especially  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces,  is  increas- 
ing proportionately.  The  importance  of  this  problem  is  further  emphasized  by  the  fact 
that  during  the  summer  of  1935  the  throng  of  campers  and  picnickers  using  only  the 
national  forests  had  increased  to  8,000,000. 

Because  of  the  influx  of  people,  especially  into  the  national  forests,  the  national 
parks,  and  the  State  and  metropolitan  parks,  the  use  of  the  areas  adapted  especially 
for  camping  and  picnicking  would  be  impractical  if  facilities  for  cooking  fires  and  for 
warming  fires  could  not  be  confined  to  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces,  for  the  following 
reasons: 

A.  To  reduce  to  a  minimum,  on  wooded  areas,  the  ever-present  fire  hazard. 

B.  To  increase  the  convenience  and  the  comfort  of  man's  use  of  these  forest  areas. 

C.  To  protect  vegetation  against  unnecessary  destruction. 

The  great  majority  of  those  who  are  seeking  recreation  in  the  forests  not  only  desire, 
but  require  these  facilities  for  their  convenience  and  comfort.  There  is  a  small  minority, 
however,  who  are  strongly  prejudiced  against  the  introduction  of  any  man-made  facilities 
into  the  forests.  These  individuals  have  an  innate  love  of  nature  "in  the  raw",  and  they 
fortunately  are  able  to  adjust  themselves  to  the  conditions  of  nature  without  the  aid  of 
these  facilities  which  are  normally  a  part  of  any  important  campground  and  picnic  area. 
Those  recreation  areas  which  are  provided  with  facilities  to  increase  the  comfort  and 
convenience  of  the  people  who  cannot  readily  adapt  themselves  to  nature  "in  the  raw", 
are  the  most  popular.  In  the  development  of  any  of  these  features,  it  is  not  practical  or 
necessary  to  attempt  to  provide  the  conveniences  which  one  can  have  at  home.  It  is 
necessary,  however,  to  avoid  too  great  inconvenience  in  the  use  of  these  facilities  in  order 
that  those  who  are  less  hardy  may  reap  the  full  enjoyment  from  their  short  stay  rather 
than  to  expend  their  energy  in  adapting  themselves  to  conditions  to  which  they  have  not 
become  accustomed. 

There  is  adequate  space,  especially  in  the  great  primitive  areas  for  the  small  minority 
who  desire  to  "rough  it",  to  procure  full  opportunity  to  live  with  nature  as  it  has  existed 
for  centuries.  The  great  majority,  however,  who  are  living  their  lives  under  conditions 
which  do  not  in  any  way  equip  them,  through  experience  or  inclination,  to  provide  suste- 
nance and  comfort  without  these  facilities,  should  be  equally  able  to  enjoy  themselves  in 
their  particular  way. 

It  is  to  provide  for  the  great  majority  that  this  bulletin  has  been  prepared  in  the  hope 
that  those  who  use,  and  those  who  may  have  occasion  to  construct,  camp  stoves  and 
fireplaces  may  be  provided  with  information  concerning  the  problems  of  location,  design, 
construction  and  use  of  these  facilities. 


While  campground  and  picnic  area  stoves  and  fireplaces  have  been  in  demand 
during  a  number  of  years  in  the  well-developed  recreation  areas,  it  is  apparent  that 
comparatively  limited  study  has  been  given  to  this  problem,  and  there  is  a  great  lack  of 
dependable  information  upon  this  subject.  It  is  evident  that  no  definite  conclusions  con- 
cerning the  design  and  construction  for  the  most  appropriate  and  practical  types  of 
stoves  and  fireplaces  to  be  installed  on  different  areas  have  been  reached.  It  is  most 
important,  because  of  the  lack  of  information  available  to  those  who  are  seeking  an 
answer  to  this  problem,  that  this  question  be  given  further  study  in  the  light  of  the  experi- 
ence which  has  been  gained  through  this  greatly  increased  use  during  the  past  few  years. 
There  appeared  in  a  recent  publication  the  following  instructions  or  "specifications" 
for  the  construction  of  parts  of  a  camp  stove  or  fireplace: 

Three  iron  pipes,  preferably  not  over  I'/t  inches  in  diameter  should  be  run  across  the  fireplace 
from  side  to  side,  etc. 

The  walls  must  be  sufficiently  thick  so  that  they  will  not  crumble.  Wherever  large  flat  rocks 
can  be  obtained,  they  should  be  used.   The  larger  they  are  the  better,  within  reasonable  limits. 


Is  it  any  wonder  that  reliable  information  is  desired,  when  agencies  directing  recrea- 
tion activities  are  publishing  information  of  this  kind  on  the  basis  of  which  to  design  and 
construct  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces? 

The  conditions  under  which  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  are  designed  and  constructed 
to  meet  the  requirements  of  everyday  use  are  widely  varied  and  there  can  be  no  one  type 
of  either  camp  stove  or  fireplace  which  seems  best  to  meet  all  requirements.  It  has  been 
necessary,  therefore,  to  include  in  this  discussion  all  of  the  possible  types  which  seem  of 
practical  value. 

The  author  appreciates  fully  that  no  discussion  of  this  subject  at  the  present  time 
can  be  considered  as  complete.  This  compilation  represents  an  effort  to  bring  together, 
within  the  covers  of  a  single  volume,  the  best  information  which  is  available  at  the  present 
time,  on  the  basis  of  which  further  study  may  continue. 

This  discussion  applies  primarily  to  the  problems  which  are  presented  in  the  forest 
camps  and  picnic  areas  of  the  national  forests.  It  may  apply  equally  well  to  many  other 
types  of  recreation  areas  and  to  thousands  of  recreational  developments  outside  of  the 
national  forests. 

In  further  explanation  of  any  lack  of  completeness  in  the  following  text  and  illustra- 
tions, the  author  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that  no  consideration  is  here  given  to  the 
"sophisticated"  and  very  architectural  types  of  stoves  and  fireplaces,  often  of  elaborate 
design,  and  frequently  developed  on  private  estates  in  close  relationship  with  other 
architectural  features. 

The  author  deeply  appreciates  the  generous  cooperation  of  the  representatives  of  the 
Forest  Service,  who  have  supplied  a  quantity  of  valuable  information  on  the  basis  of  which 
a  number  of  these  drawings  have  been  compiled.  He  is  also  indebted  to  the  officials  of  the 
Forest  Service,  who  have  made  possible  a  first-hand  study  of  the  actual  conditions  on  the 
ground  in  many  parts  of  the  national  forests.  To  the  many  individuals  outside  of  the 
Forest  Service,  from  whom  information  has  been  procured  during  the  past  4  or  5  years, 
while  this  study  has  been  in  progress,  sincere  thanks  are  extended. 

For  valuable  assistance  in  the  preparation  of  drawings  and  text,  a  word  of  sincere 
appreciation  is  due  to  Mr.  H.  Dercum,  architect,  of  Cleveland,  Ohio, 

AP"1  1936.  ^^^^^^Q^. 


N        T        E        N 


Page 

Introduction 1 

Definitions  and  adaptations  to  location  and  use 3 

Types  of  stoves  and  fireplaces 4 

Patented  stoves  (with  and  without  masonry  encasement)     ....  4 

Campfire  circles  and  open  fireplaces 4 

Fireplaces  with  top  grate  or  top  plate 4 

Camp  stoves 5 

Combined  stoves  and  fireplaces 5 

Multiple  stoves 5 

Warming  fires 5 

Combined  shelter  and  fireplace 6 

Barbecue  pits  and  barbecue  ovens 6 

General  design  problems 7 

General  considerations 7 

Factors  which  affect  design  and  methods  of  construction    ....  7 

Practical  usefulness  versus  appropriate  design 9 

Location  on  campground  and  picnic  area 9 

Fire  hazard 10 

Fuel  problems 11 

Discussion  of  detailed  design 12 

Foundations 12 

Firebox 12 

Top  grate  or  top  plate 15 

Stonework 17 

Chimneys 18 

Materials  for  construction 20 

Iron  and  brick 20 

Brick 20 

Concrete 20 

Stone 20 

Sand 20 

Detailed   discussion   of   specific   types   of   camp   stoves   and   fireplaces 
(adaptation  to  location  and  use;  design  and  construction;  variations 

in  design) 21 


Page 

Types  of  fireplaces 22 

Open-end  masonry  fireplace 26 

Rock-slab  fireplace 28 

Standard  grate  fireplace  variations 30 

Informal  fireplace 32 

Western  picnic  fireplace 34 

Informal  raised  hearth  type 36 

Informal  raised  hearth  type 38 

Chimney  notch  fireplace 40 

Convertible  camp  stove 42,  46 

Stove-warming  combination 44 

Camp  stove  variations 48 

High  chimney  stove 52 

Multiple  unit  stove 54 

Patented  stove  types 56 

Warming-cooking  unit 58 

Barbecue  pits  and  barbecue  ovens 60,  62,  64,  66 

Fireplace-shelter  types 68 

Warming  fires  and  campfires 70 

Construction  details 73,  74,  76,  78,  80 

Good  and  bad  stonework 83 

Undesirable  types 86 

Frequent  mistakes  in  fireplace  and  camp  stove  design  and  construction  88 

Camp  unit  lay-outs 90 


LIST       OF       ILLUSTRATIONS 


Plate  No.                                                           Title  of  plate  Page 

I.  Types  of  fireplaces 23 

II.   Open-end  masonry  type 27 

III.  Rock-slab  fireplace 29 

III- A.   Standard  grate  fireplace  variations 31 

IV.  Informal  fireplace • 33 

V.  Western  picnic  fireplace 35 

VI.  Informal  raised  hearth  type 37 

VII.  Iniormal  raised  hearth  type 39 

VIII.  Chimney  notch  type 41 

IX.  Convertible  camp  stove 43 

X.   Stove-warming  combination 45 

XI.  Convertible  camp  stove 47 

XI-A.  Camp  stove  variations 49 

XII.  High  chimney  stove 53 

XIII.  Multiple  unit  stove 55 

XrV.  Patented  stove  type 57 

XV.   Warming-cooking  unit 59 

XVI.  Barbecue  pit 63 

XVII.  Barbecue  oven 65 

XVIII.  Hillside  barbecue  oven 67 

XIX.  Fireplace-shelter  types 69 

XX.  Warming  fires  and  campfires 71 

XXI.  Construction  details 75 

XXII.  Construction  details 77 

XXII-A.  Construction  details 79 

XXIII.  Fireplace  construction  (within  shelters) 81 

XXIV.  Good  and  bad  stonework 84 

XXV.  Good  and  bad  stonework 85 

XXVI.  Undesirable  types 87 

XXVII.  Camp  unit  lay-outs 91 


INTRODUCTION 


J.  HE  campfire  appeals  to  an  instinct  which  is 
common  to  man  and  which  can  be  traced  back 
to  antiquity.  Fires  will  always  be  in  demand  by 
those  who  are  seeking  recreation  in  its  different 
forms  in  the  national  forests  and  in  other  areas. 
They  provide  a  means  of  creating  warmth,  of 
cooking,  of  lighting,  of  exchanging  signals,  and 
of  fostering  a  community  interest  among  those 
who  are  gathered  in  the  campfire  circle. 

There  are  two  types  of  areas  in  the  national 
forests,  and  in  other  parks  and  forests,  on  which 
camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  are  used.  These 
areas  are  ordinarily  designated  as  forest  camp 
or  campground  (primarily  for  overnight  camp- 
ing use),  and  picnic  area  (primarily  for  daytime 
picnic  use  and  seldom  for  overnight  use).  The 
term  "forest  camp"  is  generally  applicable  to 
any  area  in  the  national  forests  used  for  camp- 
ing or  picnicking  or  both.  The  term  "picnic 
area"  is  generally  applicable  only  to  areas 
used  for  picnicking.  On  the  other  hand,  the  two 
areas  have  a  distinct  use,  one  for  camping  pur- 
poses and  one  for  picnicking  purposes,  and  in 
this  bulletin  the  differentiation  is  made  accord- 
ingly. Camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  are  used  on 
other  areas  in  the  national  forest,  known  as 
special-use  areas,  which  are  particularly 
adapted  for  summer  residences,  and  for 
summer  hotel  sites  with  overnight  cabins. 

The  forest  camp  and  forest  picnic  area  are 
set  aside  for  this  particular  type  of  recreation 
use.  Many  of  the  forest  camps  are  occupied  for 
periods  extending  from  1  or  2  days  to  periods 
extending  over  a  number  of  weeks,  while  picnic 
areas  are  in  most  instances  used  for  one  and 
not  more  than  two  meals  during  any  one  trip. 
Both  of  these  areas  serve  as  centers  of  activity 
from  which  the  occupants  may  take  long  or 
short  trips  for  hiking,  fishing,  hunting,  etc. 

In  the  forest  camp  and  in  the  picnic  area,  it  is 
essential  that  cooking  facilities  be  constructed 
in  order  to  provide  the  conveniences  so  neces- 
sary for  the  majority  of  people.  Those  who  use 
the  forest  camps,  especially  for  camping  use, 


require  a  more  complete  and  convenient  cook- 
ing unit  than  those  who  use  the  picnic  areas. 

The  problems  of  convenience  and  adaptation 
to  use,  appearance,  protection  against  the  fire 
hazard,  and  maintenance  must  be  discussed  in 
any  adequate  consideration  of  this  subject. 

It  is  frequently  observed  in  the  national 
forests  that  forest  camps  and  picnic  areas  are 
used  so  intensively  and  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  forest  ground-cover  is  unnecessarily 
destroyed.  There  is  a  "saturation  point"  be- 
yond which  these  areas  should  not  be  inten- 
sively used.  This  point  is  in  direct  relation  to 
the  kind  of  vegetation  and  soil  conditions  which 
prevail  upon  any  specific  area  and  which 
must  be  considered  in  determining  the  type  of 
development  for  any  area. 

Any  man-made  feature,  however  well  de- 
signed, when  introduced  into  the  natural  forest 
is  an  artificial  note  and  an  intrusion.  It  is 
granted  that  the  ideal  forest  recreation  area  is 
one  in  which  these  features  are  absent.  Unfor- 
tunately, man's  use  of  these  recreation  areas, 
and  nature's  requirement  that  vegetation  be 
protected,  make  certain  facilities  and  regula- 
tions for  their  use  entirely  necessary.  It  is  very 
essential  that  there  be  an  intelligent  conser- 
vation of  the  existing  growth  on  all  camp- 
grounds and  picnic  areas  if  continued  pleasure 
is  to  be  derived  from  the  use  of  these  areas. 

The  attitude  of  the  public  toward  the  use  and 
protection  of  the  facilities  which  are  provided 
in  forest  camps  and  picnic  areas  varies  widely 
in  different  sections  of  the  country.  There  are 
those  individuals  who  seem  intuitively  to  ap- 
preciate the  effort  which  is  made  to  increase 
their  comfort  and  enjoyment  by  providing 
adequate  and  convenient  facilities.  On  the 
other  hand,  there  are  those  who  are  critical 
of  these  facilities,  even  though  they  evidence  a 
certain  respect  for  the  use  of  these  facilities. 
There  is,  however,  another  group  (fortunately, 
in  the  minority)  who  are  inclined  to  be  careless 
and  destructive.  In  some  localities  throughout 


the  country  it  becomes  increasingly  important 
on  this  account  to  so  design  and  construct 
facihties  for  campgrounds  and  picnic  areas 
that  a  m.inimum  of  damage  from  vandahsm 
and  careless  use  can  occur. 

Fireplaces  are  chiefly  valuable  because  of 
the  open  blaze  which  provides  heat  and  light 
so  much  desired  by  campers  and  picnickers. 
Camp  stoves  are  primarily  valuable  for  cook- 
ing purposes  and  are  necessary  where  the 
fire  hazard  is  great.  Fireplaces  should  be 
designed  so  that  they  may  be  used  with  reason- 
able convenience  for  cooking  purposes. 

The  amount  of  money  available  for  the  con- 
struction and  subsequent  maintenance  of  camp 
stoves   and   fireplaces   is   often    an   important 


factor  in  determining  the  type  of  unit.  Some 
types  of  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  require 
much  more  maintenance  (replacing  of  parts, 
removal  of  ashes,  and  repairs)  than  do  others 
of  a  simpler  and  more  solid  type  of  construc- 
tion. The  kind  of  labor  available  for  con- 
structing these  units  is  sometimes  an  equally 
important  factor.  The  type  of  unit  which  re- 
quires strict  adherence  to  detailed  plans  in 
actual  construction  is  not  practical  unless 
skilled  labor  is  available.  In  any  camp  stove 
and  fireplace,  it  is  possible,  without  skilled 
labor,  to  misinterpret  the  intent  of  the  plans  to 
the  extent  that  the  completed  feature  may  some- 
times entirely  lose  the  desired  effect. 


DEFINITIONS    AND    ADAPTATIONS 
TO    LOCATION    AND    USE 


XN  this  discussion  the  terms  "camp  stove" 
and  "fireplace"  are  used  to  designate  the  two 
groups  of  units  which  are  used  for  cooking, 
warming,  and  hghting  purposes.  These  terms 
are  not  synonymous.  There  are  times,  however, 
when  it  is  difficult  to  differentiate  between  a 
camp  stove  and  a  fireplace. 

In  some  types  which  are  easily  convertible 
from  a  fireplace  to  a  camp  stove  or  a  camp  stove 
to  a  fireplace,  the  unit  may  be  designated  as 
one  or  the  other.  There  is  usually  a  difference 
between  the  camp  stove  and  the  fireplace.  The 
stove  is  that  unit  which  is  used  primarily  for 
cooking  purposes  and  has  a  definite  solid  plate 
for  a  cooking  surface,  and  in  which  the  draft  is 
ordinarily  controlled  by  a  damper  in  the  door 
or  in  the  chimney,  or  both.  The  fireplace  is  that 
unit  which  is  used  primarily  for  light  and 
warmth,  and  also  for  cooking.  It  is  usually 
constructed  with  a  grate  over  the  firebox  and 
sometimes  with  a  removable  plate;  but  no  pro- 
vision is  made  for  the  control  of  the  draft  by 
any  door,  or  in  the  chimney.  The  fireplace  is 
ordinarily  used  on  the  picnic  area  and  seldom 
used  on  the  camp  area  except  in  combination 
with  a  camp  stove.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
camp  stove  may  be  used  on  the  picnic  area  as 
well  as  upon  the  camp  areas.  In  all  camp 
stoves  and  in  all  but  the  very  simple  types  of 
fireplaces,  the  firebox  is  lined  with  fire-clay 
brick.  Campfire  circles  (pi.  XX)  are  a  type  of 
fireplace  although  they  are  usually  constructed 
only  for  warmth  and  light. 

In  designing  a  unit  for  any  camp  ground  or 
picnic  area,  the  first  step  is  to  determine  whether 
the  maximum  use  of  the  unit  will  be  in  connec- 
tion with  picnic  activities  or  in  connection  with 


campground  activities.  The  person  who  comes 
to  a  campground  usually  remains  during  a 
period  of  days  or  weeks  and  he  desires  during 
this  period  to  be  provided  with  three  meals  a 
day  and  therefore  to  have  reasonable  con- 
venience in  the  use  of  any  cooking  facilities. 
The  camp  stove  is  the  unit  which  provides  this 
kind  of  convenience.  The  picnicker  is  on  the 
picnic  area  for  a  matter  of  hours  only,  and 
during  this  time  it  may  be  necessary  to  prepare 
not  more  than  one  meal.  As  a  little  inconven- 
ience does  not  annoy  him  and  in  fact  may  add 
to  the  thrill  of  "  'roughing  it' '  and  of  being  '  'in  the 
open"  lor  this  short  period,  he  is  quite  willing 
to  accept  a  certain  amount  of  inconvenience. 

In  general  it  is  more  desirable  that  camp 
stoves  and  fireplaces  be  in  fixed  locations  in 
order  to  avoid  unnecessary  destruction  of 
natural  vegetation  and  forest  ground  cover. 
If  these  units  are  moved  indiscriminately  over 
the  recreation  area,  the  natural  vegetation  is 
soon  destroyed  and  the  area  loses  much  of  its 
attractiveness. 

In  some  picnic  areas,  especially  those  in 
close  proximity  to  large  centers  of  population 
the  only  practical  solution  in  the  use  of  the 
area  is  that  of  providing  movable  units  (pi. 
I,  fig.  6A)  for  cooking  purposes.  On  such  areas 
there  may  be  an  intensive  use  by  hundreds  of 
picnickers  on  one  day  and  on  another  day  the 
same  intensive  use  may  be  concentrated  upon 
some  other  area.  In  the  meantime  one  of  the 
areas  is  very  little  occupied.  For  occasions  of 
such  intensive  use  it  is,  therefore,  essential  to 
provide  a  considerable  number  of  units  of  a 
movable  type  to  meet  the  requirements  of  this 
intermittent  intensive  use. 


TYPES    OF    STOVES    AND    FIREPLACES 


XHERE  is  a  variety  of  types  of  camp  stoves 
and  fireplaces,  ranging  from  the  simple  types 
shown  in  plate  I,  figures  1,  3,  4,  5,  and  6,  to 
the  elaborate  and  massive  types  shown  on 
plates  XII  and  XIII.  In  addition,  there  are  the 
patented  types  of  (a)  fixed,  (b)  movable,  and 
(c)  portable  camp  stoves,  some  of  which  are 
used  as  assembled  after  shipment  from  the 
source  of  supply,  and  others  are  used  only 
after  being  assembled  and  encased  in  masonry. 
The  simpler  forms  of  fireplaces,  similar  to  those 
shown  in  plate  I,  are  excellently  adapted  for 
picnic  use  on  the  forest  recreation  areas  and 
especially  on  open  areas,  because  these 
simpler  features  are  less  conspicuous  and  more 
natural  in  appearance. 

PATENTED  STOVES 

(With  ond  Without  Masonry  Encosement) 

These  stoves  have  a  wide  use,  especially  in 
the  more  urban  park  areas.  The  type  of  porta- 
ble stove  shown  in  plate  I,  figure  2  (designed 
to  burn  gasoline),  is  popular,  especially  where 
adequate  cooking  facilities  are  not  provided 
on  campground  and  picnic  areas.  This  porta- 
ble stove  is  often  used  where  only  fireplaces 
are  available  and  the  camper  desires  a  cleaner 
and  easier  method  of  preparing  food.  These 
stoves  are  easily  carried  in  the  automobile, 
and  with  a  few  minutes  of  preparation  they 
are  ready  for  use.  In  some  areas  a  large 
percent  of  the  campers  use  this  portable  stove. 
There  are  two  other  groups  of  patented 
stoves,  one  of  which  is  used  without  a  masonry 
covering  and  the  other  is  used  with  a  masonry 
covering  (pi.  XIV).  The  patented  stove  which 
is  designed  for  use  without  masonry  is  best 
suited  for  the  more  intensively  used  recreation 
areas  under  city  conditions.  This  stove  is  not 
well  adapted,  from  the  standpoint  of  appro- 
priate design,  to  the  natural  forest  surround- 
ings. On  the  other  hand,  the  patented  stove 
intended  for  use  only  when  encased  in  well- 
designed  stone  masonry  (pi.  XIV)  is  an  excellent 
stove  for  use  on  campgrounds. 


CAMPFIRE     CIRCLES     AND 
OPEN     FIREPLACES 

Fires,  either  in  campfire  circles  (pi.  XX,  figs. 
3,  4,  5,  and  6)  or  in  open  fireplaces  (pis.  II,  III, 
and  IV)  are  always  in  demand  on  recreation 
areas  where  the  fire  hazard  is  small.  These 
features  range  from  the  small  circle  for  indi- 
vidual camp  units  or  individual  picnic  groups, 
and  the  large  circles  for  community  gatherings, 
to  the  weU-designed  open  fireplaces.  Their 
main  value  is  not  for  cooking,  except  on  camp- 
grounds. It  is  for  light  and  warmth.  There  is  a 
certain  element  of  simplicity  and  charm  in  the 
atmosphere  created  by  a  campfire  circle  or  an 
open,  simple  fireplace.  No  extensive  camp- 
ground or  picnic  area  is  complete  without 
them,  and  their  absence  can  be  justified  only 
in  locations  where  the  fire  hazard  prohibits 
their  use. 

FIREPLACES  WITH  TOP  GRATE 
OR  TOP  PLATE 

On  campgrounds  and  picnic  areas  which  are 
entirely  in  the  open,  the  camp  stove  and  the 
fireplace  should  be  as  inconspicuous  as  it  is 
practical  to  make  it,  because  of  the  unattrac- 
tive effect  which  is  so  often  produced  by  any 
considerable  number  of  more  massive  types  of 
fireplaces  on  a  single  open  area. 

The  most  natural  fireplace  is  one  which  is 
cut  into  the  natural  rock  outcrop  or  ledge  (pi. 
I,  fig.  3),  or  a  similar  fireplace  so  constructed 
that  it  reproduces  the  effect  of  being  cut  from 
the  natural  ledge  rock  (pi.  I,  fig.  4).  These 
fireplaces  are  most  attractive  in  appearance 
and  appropriate  to  the  surroundings.  Unless 
the  natural  rock  outcrop  happens  to  be  of  a 
kind  which  can  withstand  intense  heat  and 
water  dousing,  considerable  damage  will  occur 
in  practical  use. 

On  some  picnic  areas,  a  simple  form  of 
standard  grate  with  sheet-iron  or  stone  sides 
(pi.  I,  figs.  6C  and  6B)  is  adopted.  This  simple 
grate  is  supported  on  four  legs  which  may  be 
anchored  firmly  in  the  ground,  if  the  fireplace 


is  supposed  to  be  in  a  fixed  position,  or  the  legs 
may  be  so  set  that  the  fireplace  can  be  moved 
to  other  locations. 

The  stone  masonry  fireplace  with  both  ends 
open  (pi.  II)  is  a  simple  and  practical  unit 
where  the  fire  hazard  is  not  great.  Most  open 
fireplaces  are  constructed  with  a  definite  back 
(pis.  Ill,  IV,  and  V).  In  all  of  these  fireplaces, 
the  cooking  is  done  upon  a  grate  or  plate  which 
covers  a  major  portion  of  the  firebox.  The  plate 
is  sometimes  used  on  fireplaces  in  preference  to 
the  grate  because  of  the  increased  convenience 
of  cooking,  and  to  prevent  smudging  of  utensils. 

The  fireplace  of  this  type  may  have  a  top 
grate  supplemented  by  a  top  plate,  or  a  grate 
without  any  top  plate.  These  two  may  be 
interchangeable.  In  some  fireplaces  there  is  a 
bottom  grate;  but  this  is  an  impractical  feature, 
especially  when  the  grate  is  only  4  or  5  inches 
above  the  hearth.  The  area  under  the  bottom 
grate  is  soon  filled  with  ashes  and  therefore 
becomes  the  same  as  a  soUd  hearth.  If  the 
ashes  are  kept  continuously  cleaned  away 
from  the  firebox,  the  cost  of  maintenance  is 
abnormal  and  sometimes  prohibitive. 

In  a  few  types  of  fireplaces,  there  is  a  single 
bar  across  the  front  of  the  firebox  (pi.  VI) .  When 
greater  convenience  in  the  use  of  these  types  of 
fireplaces  is  desired,  the  hearth  is  raised  above 
the  ground  level  in  order  to  have  the  top  of  the 
grate  at  a  more  convenient  elevation  (pis.  VII 
and  X). 

CAMP  STOVES 

The  camp  stove  which  is  primarily  for  cooking 
purposes  sometimes  may  be  converted  into  a 
hreplace,  as  shown  in  plates  X  and  XI.  The 
camp  stove  with  the  top  plate  at  an  elevation 
of  26  to  30  inches  is  apt  to  be  rather  massive 
and  for  this  reason  these  high  units  should  be 
developed  only  on  campgrounds  where  there 
is  an  opportunity  to  partially  screen  one  unit 
from  another  unit. 

There  is  a  type  of  camp  stove,  known  as  the 
"oil  drum"  (pi.  XXVI,  fig.  10),  and  the  "ice- 
box" (pi.  XXVI,  figs.  9  and  11),  which  is  very 
practical  in  actual  use  but  very  inappropriate 
for  use  in  natural  forest  surroundings.  There 
can  be  httle  justification,  even  from  the  stand- 
point of  practical  use,  for  introducing  these 
types  of  stoves  into  the  natural  areas. 

Camp  stoves  are  sometimes  constructed  with 


a  chimney  notch  (pi.  VIII),  or  more  frequently 
with  a  chimney  which  may  be  low  (pi.  X)  or 
high  (pi.  XII).  Camp  stoves  should  be  appro- 
priately designed  (so  far  as  a  fireplace  or  a 
camp  stove  can  be  so  designed)  to  fit  into  the 
natural  forest  surroundings.  High-chimney 
camp  stoves  should  be  confined  to  the  heavily 
wooded  areas  where  there  is  opportunity  to 
develop  the  necessary  screen  of  natural  plant- 
ing. There  is  little  justification  for  the  type  of 
camp  stove  with  the  high  chimney  except  in 
locations  where  the  fire  hazard  is  great  and 
the  high  chimney  wth  its  spark  arrester  is 
necessary  to  provide  the  desired  protection. 

COMBINED  STOVES  AND  FIREPLACES 

It  is  sometimes  desirable  to  use  a  combination 
warming  and  cooking  unit  as  shown  on  plate 
XV.  This  combination  structure  is  apt  to  be 
rather  massive  and  it  should  be  avoided  wher- 
ever practical  in  favor  of  the  construction  of 
the  convertible  types  of  camp  stove  shown  in 
plates  VIII,  IX,  X,  and  XI.  The  combination 
stove  and  fireplace  and  the  convertible  camp 
stove  are  frequently  used  in  connection  with 
shelters  (pi.  XIX,  figs.  1  and  5). 

MULTIPLE  STOVES 

The  multiple  stove  with  the  high  chimney  in  the 
middle  is  a  feature  which  should  be  avoided  in 
forests,  except  where  the  congested  use  and  kind 
of  use  on  any  area  (especially  the  area  of 
Umited  extent)  makes  the  use  of  these  units 
necessary.  This  type  of  stove  may  be  con- 
structed in  units  of  2,  3,  or  4  (pis.  XIII  and 
III- A,  figs.  7  and  8). 

In  general  use,  this  stove  in  multiples  of  more 
than  two  (except  where  used  within  shelters) 
should  be  discouraged.  The  smaller  type  of 
stove  in  single  units  is  much  more  practical 
and  more  easily  controlled  in  actual  use.  A 
single  stove  unit  permits  a  better  distribution 
of  use  over  the  area  and  provides  more  family 
privacy.  Its  economy  of  construction,  where 
multiple  stoves  are  required,  is  one  of  the  fac- 
tors in  its  favor. 

WARMING   FIRES 

On  many  campgrounds  and  picnic  areas,  the 
warming  fire  (pi.  XX,  fig.  1)  for  the  use  of  com- 
munity groups  is  a  practical  feature.  These 
units    are    desirable    in    locations    where    the 


evenings  are  cool,  and  also  in  some  of  the 
mountain  areas  where  the  natural  tempera- 
ture of  the  water  and  air  is  somewhat  below 
that  which  makes  for  comfort.  They  are  often 
used  in  connection  with  swimming  pools  in  the 
forest  areas.  There  is  much  more  reflected  heat 
from  these  fires  than  from  the  campfire  circle. 
They  cannot  be  used  with  safety  where  the  fire 
hazard  is  great. 

COMBINED  SHELTER  AND  FIREPLACE 

Plate  XIX  shows  types  of  shelters  which  are  used 
either  in  connection  with  an  outside  fireplace, 
or  in  which  a  fireplace  is  constructed.  The  type 
known  as  the"  Adirondak  shelter"  (pi.  XIX, 
fig.  5)  and  the  type  known  as  the  "Trailside 
shelter"  (pi.  XIX,  fig.  3)  are  very  popular, 
especially  in  areas  where  there  are  frequent 
and  sudden  rains  and  also  where  hikers  use 
trails  during  the  early  spring  and  late  fall. 


There  are  also  shelter  buildings  for  use  dur- 
ing inclement  weather,  in  which  campers  may 
live  and  prepare  their  food  or  keep  themselves 
warm. 

BARBECUE  PITS  AND  BARBECUE  OVENS 

Other  types  of  camp  stoves  are  the  barbecue 
pit  and  barbecue  oven.  In  some  parts  of  the 
western  regions  of  the  national  forests  and  in 
Puerto  Rico,  barbecue  pits  and  ovens  are  fre- 
quently used.  The  purpose  of  these  features  is 
that  of  cooking  an  entire  carcass  or  large  por- 
tions of  a  carcass  at  one  time,  in  order  to  serve 
large  gatherings. 

These  units  must  be  carefuUy  designed,  and 
constructed  for  practical  use.  They  may  be  an 
interesting  and  a  desirable  feature  on  any 
large  and  intensively  used  picnic  area.  They 
are  seldom  constructed  on  campgrounds. 


GENERAL    DESIGN   PROBLEMS 


GENERAL    CONSIDERATIONS 

The  areas  used  for  campgrounds  and  for  picnic 
areas  range  from  tlie  lieavy  timber  with  a  very 
great  fire  hazard  to  the  open  mountain  coun- 
try of  the  east  where  oftentimes  there  is  little 
or  no  hazard.  In  all  of  these  areas  the  camp 
stove  or  fireplace  should  be  designed,  first, 
for  practical  use  and,  second,  appropriate 
design  in  keeping  with  the  natural  forest  sur- 
roundings. Sometimes  it  is  imperative  that  the 
high  chimney  type  (pi.  XII)  be  used  in  order  to 
avoid  abnormal  fire  hazard.  These  massive 
stoves  with  high  chimneys  are  strongly  discour- 
aged because  of  their  unattractive  appearance 
when  placed  in  the  natural  forest  landscape. 

The  opinion  prevails  that  there  is  no  such 
thing  as  an  attractive  and  an  appropriate 
camp  stove  or  fireplace,  especially  when  in- 
troduced into  the  natural  forest.  Many  persons 
feel  that  such  features  are  entirely  artificial 
and  must  be  accepted  as  a  part  of  the  practical 
solution  of  the  recreation  problem.  They  insist 
that  the  design  should  be  for  maximum  utility, 
and  no  effort  should  be  made  to  develop  a  de- 
sign which  might  be  appropriate  to  the  natural 
forest  surroundings,  inasmuch  as  no  design 
can  overcome  the  artificial  character  of  this 
feature.  Careful  study  of  this  problem  of  de- 
sign leads  to  the  conclusion  that  very  much 
more  appropriate  and  attractive  results  can  be 
produced  if  the  camp  stove  or  fireplace  is  de- 
signed to  be  appropriate  to  the  surrounding 
natural  forest  landscape. 

The  general  practice  is  that  of  adopting  only 
one  type  of  design  for  the  units  on  an  individual 
forest  camp  or  picnic  area.  It  seems  to  the 
author  that  such  a  procedure,  literally  followed, 
tends  toward  monotony  and  a  lack  of  interest, 
which  otherwise  might  be  avoided  through  the 
adoption  of  more  than  one  type  of  camp  stove 
or  fireplace  on  a  single  area  especially  the 
larger  areas.  It  seems  advisable  in  some  in- 
stances to  introduce  an  occasional  camp  stove 
type  together  with  the  very  definite  fireplace 
type. 


The  design  of  any  camp  stove  or  fireplace 
should  embody  the  elements  of  simplicity.  It 
must  be  remembered  that  if  the  more  elaborate 
types  of  designs  are  used,  then  the  resulting 
details  of  construction  will  be  proportionately 
more  complicated  and  the  relative  expense 
and  work  of  constructing  these  units  will  be 
increased.  These  units  should  be  simple  in 
design  and  primarily  for  utilitarian  purposes. 

In  some  instances,  a  variety  of  mass  design 
can  be  produced  by  introducing  a  "batter"  in 
the  side  walls  to  overcome  a  contrast  between 
the  horizontal  ground  level  and  the  more  or  less 
vertical  surface  of  the  side  walls.  This  result  is 
seldom  successfully  accomplished  in  an  effec- 
tive way  because  the  fireplace  is  normally  low, 
and  unless  the  "battering"  of  the  side  walls  is 
exceedingly  well  done,  the  effect  is  not  apt  to 
be  pleasing.  There  is  always  the  danger  of 
attempting  to  procure  an  informal  effect  by 
increasing  the  "batter"  on  the  side  wall,  some- 
times to  the  extent  that  the  base  of  the  stone 
work,  especially  on  the  higher  types  of  camp 
stoves,  causes  inconvenience  in  the  use  of  the 
stove  because  the  person  doing  the  cooking 
cannot  get  sufficiently  close  to  the  stove.  No  one 
standard  of  design  is  the  most  practical  or  the 
most  desirable.  There  are  a  number  of  ways  to 
design  these  units,  both  in  mass  proportion  and 
in  detail,  and  it  is  the  variety  of  design  which 
creates  interest  and  avoids  monotony. 

In  order  to  reduce  the  height  of  the  camp 
stove  or  fireplace,  especially  the  chimney  type, 
and  the  type  with  the  raised  hearth,  it  is  some- 
times desirable  to  do  some  grading  around  the 
sides  and  back  of  the  stove  or  fireplace  unit  as 
shown  in  plate  VI  and  plate  X.  If  there  is  avail- 
able a  location  on  a  slight  slope,  the  fireplace 
or  stove  may  be  set  into  the  slope. 

FACTORS    WHICH    AFFECT    DESIGN 
AND   METHODS  OF   CONSTRUCTION 

There  are  important  factors  which  directly 
affect  the  design  and  methods  of  construction 
for  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces. 


The  natural  topography  of  the  area  will  de- 
termine to  some  extent  the  type  of  design  for 
camp  stove  or  fireplace  most  appropriate  to 
the  area.  On  areas  similar  to  the  recreation 
areas  of  the  national  forests  of  northern  New 
England,  where  the  forest  camp  and  picnic 
area  is  usually  developed  on  open  ground  to 
take  maximum  advantage  of  the  sun,  the  camp 
stove  and  fireplace  must  be  as  inconspicuous 
as  it  is  practical  to  make  this  feature.  On  other 
areas,  amongst  the  large  timber  of  the  north- 
west, it  is  entirely  practical  to  adopt  a  type  of 
design  which  is  of  larger  scale  and  has  much 
in  common  with  the  surrounding  landscape. 

If  the  topography  of  any  specific  recreation 
area  is  rugged  and  has  considerable  outcrop 
of  rock,  then  the  design  of  camp  stove  and  fire- 
place should  be  governed  accordingly,  both  as 
to  the  texture  of  the  stonework  and  the  kind  of 
stone  used  for  construction. 

The  number  of  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces 
which  should  be  constructed  on  any  recreation 
area  is  determined  by  the  intensity  of  use  on 
any  particular  area  and  also  by  the  type  of 
vegetation  which  exists  upon  that  area.  If  the 
recreation  area  is  covered  with  a  thick  growth 
of  trees  under  which  considerable  undergrowth 
and  ground  cover  vegetation  exists,  the  number 
of  units  is  determined  by  the  number  of  indi- 
vidual camp  sites  which  it  seems  advisable  to 
develop  and  yet  preserve  the  necessary  seclu- 
sion and  privacy  which  is  so  essential  to  camp 
units.  It  is  estimated  that  the  average  number 
of  persons  per  camp  stove  will  approximate  five 
to  seven  during  any  one  time.  So  far  as  prac- 
tical, the  units  should  be  so  separated  that  each 
family  or  each  group  may  have  adequate  space 
and  may  have  its  own  individual  camp  stove 
or  fireplace.  This  is  particularly  true  with  refer- 
ence to  camp  stoves.  The  mixed  use  of  any 
individual  unit  by  more  than  one  group  leads 
to  confusion  and  results  in  unsatisfactory  con- 
ditions. On  campgrounds,  it  is  usually  neces- 
sary to  provide  one  stove  for  each  camp  site, 
and  on  picnic  areas  to  provide  one  fireplace 
for  the  occupants  of  each  three  cars. 

Climatic  conditions  will  govern  to  some  extent 
the  kind  of  construction.  In  areas  where  severe 
chmatic  conditions  are  experienced,  and  where 
there  are  extreme  changes  of  temperature,  the 
most  thorough  kind  of  construction  should  be 
adopted  in  order  to  prevent  disintegration  of 


the  masonry  and  other  damage  by  frost 
conditions. 

If  the  recreation  area  has  an  established  use 
which  will  continue  for  a  considerable  period, 
stoves  and  fireplaces  should  be  of  the  most  per- 
manent types,  which  require  a  minimum  of 
maintenance  and  which  will  endure  through  a 
number  of  years. 

In  some  localities,  there  seems  to  be  a  pre- 
vailing inclination  toward  vandalism.  In  these 
locations,  the  picnickers,  in  particular,  rather 
enjoy  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  how  much  dam- 
age can  be  done  to  camp  stoves,  fireplaces,  and 
picnic  tables.  Under  such  conditions,  where 
these  facilities  are  not  used  with  consideration, 
an  unusually  strong  and  simple  construction 
should  be  adopted.  Whether  or  not  vandahsm 
prevails  in  any  locality,  the  movable  parts 
should  be  securely  anchored,  or  attached  with 
a  chain,  in  order  that  these  parts  may  be  kept 
in  proper  relation  to  the  camp  stove  and  hre- 
place.  Signs  placed  in  a  conspicuous  location 
near  the  fireplace,  and  containing  instructions 
as  to  the  proper  use  of  these  facilities  might 
avoid  some  of  the  damage  which  is  now  caused 
to  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  partly  because 
of  lack  of  this  information. 

In  locations  where  the  fire  hazard  is  great 
and  where  it  is  necessary  to  douse  the  fire  with 
water,  a  type  of  construction  must  be  adopted 
which  will  withstand  these  extreme  changes  of 
temperature. 

Larger  and  more  massive  types  of  camp  units 
are  adapted  only  to  those  locations  where  large 
timber  prevails  and  where  there  is  adequate 
opportunity  to  screen  the  individual  camp  sites 
from  each  other.  An  unfortunate  effect  will  be 
produced  in  the  general  landscape  composi- 
tion if  massive  types  of  camp  stoves  and  fire- 
places are  used  in  areas  which  are  generally 
open  and  unprotected. 

The  question  of  fire  hazard  is  also  an  import- 
ant factor  which  makes  it  necessary  to  use  a 
type  of  design  and  construction  which  produces 
the  minimum  danger  of  fire.  In  these  locations 
of  high  fire  hazard  the  use  of  the  solid  plate  and 
the  use  of  dampers  and  spark  arresters  in  the 
chimneys  may  be  essential. 

The  availability  of  different  kinds  of  materials 
to  be  used  in  construction  is  an  important  fac- 
tor in  determining  the  type  of  stonework  in  any 
fireplace.  The  types  of  stone  and  the  ease  with 


8 


which  the  stone  may  be  cut  to  the  desired 
shapes  for  any  desired  texture  of  stone  masonry 
should  be  considered  before  the  final  design  is 
adopted. 

PRACTICAL  USEFULNESS  VERSUS 
APPROPRIATE  DESIGN 

The  camp  stove  and  the  picnic  fireplace  must 
combine  convenience  of  practical  use  with  ap- 
propriateness of  design.  It  is  much  more  im- 
portant in  the  camp  stove  than  in  the  picnic 
area  fireplace  to  provide  a  design  which  recog- 
nizes as  an  important  requirement  the  con- 
venience of  everyday  use.  Many  campers  and 
picnickers  will  accept  any  type  of  design  (even 
the  "oil-drum"  and  the  "ice-box"  (pi.  XXVI, 
figs.  9,  10,  and  11))  however  unattractive  and 
inappropriate  in  appearance,  so  long  as  it  is 
of  practical  use.  Such  sacrifice  of  design  is  un- 
warranted. The  natural  pleasing  landscape 
deserves  more  consideration.  There  are  ways 
in  which  to  combine  practical  use  and  good 
design  so  that  such  encroachments  may  be 
avoided. 

The  height  of  the  cooking  surface  of  a  camp 
stove  should  approximate  from  15  to  24  inches. 
A  height  of  30  inches  more  nearly  conforms  to 
the  height  of  the  cooking  surface  in  the  kitchen 
range  at  home.  Such  a  height  is  to  be  dis- 
couraged in  the  forests,  because  of  the  resulting 
massiveness  of  the  camp  stove. 

With  a  hearth  raised  approximately  6  to  8 
inches  above  the  surrounding  ground  and  with 
a  depth  of  firebox  approximating  8  to  10  inches 
the  resulting  height  of  the  cooking  surface 
(adding  the  thickness  of  the  grate  or  plate)  is 
approximately  15  to  18  inches  above  the  ground 
level.  Unless  it  is  practicable  to  easily  screen 
these  cooking  units  from  each  other  the  higher 
cooking  surfaces  should  be  avoided,  even  though 
more  convenient  for  everyday  use  by  campers. 

Campers  and  picnickers  seek  the  forests  and 
other  areas  for  recreation  and  exercise;  thus 
squatting  beside  the  low  (15  inches)  fireplace, 
or  bending  over  the  slightly  higher  (18  to  24 
inches)  camp  stove  is  one  of  the  forms  of 
physical  exercise  which  is  a  part  of  the  life 
out-of-doors.  Convenience  in  camp  life  is  a 
very  relative  term  which  to  most  recreation 
seekers  may  involve  some  expenditure  of  phys- 
ical energy  not  enjoyed  in  the  everyday  life  at 
home,  and  unfortunately  to  a  very  few  it  means 


the  comforts  and  inactivity  of  home  transferred 
to  the  natural  landscape  setting. 

In  the  use  of  the  camp  stove  it  is  essential  to 
have  convenient  access  to  the  cooking  surface 
from  the  sides  as  well  as  from  the  front.  For 
this  reason,  the  height  of  the  walls  above  the 
top  of  the  cooking  surface  should  be  kept  at  a 
minimum.  Sometimes  it  is  advisable  to  raise  the 
top  of  the  wall  above  the  cooking  surface,  in 
order  to  secure  a  more  permanent  type  of  con- 
struction. The  fire-clay  brick  lining  in  the  camp 
stove  should  extend  to  the  underside  of  the  top 
grate  or  plate,  and  this  additional  height  of  the 
side  walls  may  be  necessary  in  order  to  provide 
an  anchor  or  suitable  attachment  for  the  bars 
or  grate  and  to  provide  a  cap  which  will  prop- 
erly protect  the  joint  between  the  fire-clay  brick 
and  the  surface  of  the  stone  wall.  By  keeping 
the  top  of  the  side  walls  level  with  the  top  of  the 
plate  or  grate,  it  is  possible  to  set  pots  and  pans 
partly  off  the  stove  and  partly  on  the  wall  to 
obtain  varying  degrees  of  heat  (pis.  Ill  and  V). 

The  thickness  of  the  masonry  walls,  outside 
of  the  fire-clay  brick,  may  approximate  from  6 
to  10  inches.  Because  of  the  height  of  the  cook- 
ing surface,  any  greater  thickness  of  the  walls 
is  likely  to  make  the  top  of  the  stove  not  con- 
venient to  use. 

It  is  often  desirable  to  construct  a  stove  or 
fireplace  with  an  area  of  gravel  or  sandy  loam 
(approximating  5  feet  in  width)  entirely  sur- 
rounding the  front  and  sides  of  the  unit.  If  this 
area  is  not  provided,  then  the  natural  vegeta- 
tion will  be  worn  unnecessarily  and  the  area 
will  become  dusty,  inasmuch  as  it  will  be 
generally  dry.  If  the  natural  soil  is  clay,  then 
the  convenience  of  using  the  fireplace  will  be 
very  much  reduced  unless  coarse  sand  or 
gravel  is  spread.  If  flagstone  is  available,  a 
very  few  broken  flagstones  may  be  laid  at  the 
sides  of  the  unit  and  immediately  in  front. 

LOCATION   ON    CAMPGROUND 
OR  PICNIC   AREA 

The  actual  site  selected  for  the  camp  stove  or 
fireplace  should  have  natural  surface  drainage 
so  that  muddy  conditions  may  be  avoided  dur- 
ing wet  weather.  The  fireplace  can  sometimes 
be  built  into  a  slope  which  will  produce  a  more 
natural  effect,  especially  if  some  small  amount 
of  grading  is  done  immediately  around  the 
unit  (pis.  VI,  VII,  and  X). 


Locations  for  stoves  and  fireplaces  on  forest 
camp  and  picnic  areas  should  be  selected  to 
meet  the  following  requirements: 

A.  Easy  accessibility  to  tables,  cooking  utensils,  and 
parking  spurs  (especially  true  in  camp  units)  (pi. 
XXVH). 

B.  These  units  should  not  be  nearer  than  10  or  15  feet 
from  trees,  and  should  under  no  conditions  be  under 
any  overhanging  branches  which  might  be  injured 
by  smoke  or  heat. 

C.  Adequate  provision  for  a  convenient  working  space 
around  the  cooking  unit,  and  an  adequate  storage 
space  for  wood  and  other  supplies  close  by  the  cook- 
ing unit. 

D.  The  cooking  unit  should  be  so  located  that  during  the 
heat  of  the  day  the  necessary  shade  may  be  pro- 
cured, if  the  recreation  area  is  in  a  section  of  the 
country  where  shade  is  desirable.  In  sections  of  the 
country  where  the  sun  is  desirable,  then  the  cooking 
unit  should  be  located  accordingly. 

E.  The  cooking  units  should  be  so  located  that,  under 
conditions  of  normal  prevailing  winds,  the  smoke, 
casual  sparks  or  heat  will  not  be  blown  into  the  tent 
or  across  the  table.  It  should  be  noted  that  in  some  of 
the  mountainous  country  the  prevailing  morning 
breeze  is  opt  to  be  in  a  different  direchon  from  the 
prevailing  evening  breeze. 

F.  The  unit  should  also  be  so  located  that  in  the  higher 
altitudes  and  more  open  exposures  where  excessive 
wind  may  be  expected  at  certain  times  of  the  year, 
the  unit  can  be  so  protected  that  excessive  draft  will 
be  avoided  and  the  fuel  consumption  reduced 
accordingly. 

Extreme  precaution  should  be  taken  in  order 
not  to  damage  the  roots  of  existing  trees, 
especially  the  more  shallow  rooted  types. 
Unless  the  fireplace  is  properly  located,  con- 
siderable damage  may  be  done  to  the  roots  of 
existing  trees  by  the  concentrated  lye  which 
leaches  from  the  ashes.  Injury  may  be  done  to 
the  roots  by  the  intense  traffic  over  any  root 
areas.  It  is  very  desirable  that  the  unit  be 
located  so  that  the  prevaiUng  wind  will  not 
carry  the  intense  heat  into  the  foliage. 

On  some  campgrounds  in  parts  of  the  coun- 
try similar  to  those  of  northern  Montana  and 
northern  New  England  (in  the  White  Moun- 
tains) the  necessity  for  sunlight  is  equally  as 
important  as  for  shade  in  the  southerly  areas 
which  experience  intense  heat.  Sunlight  is 
important  in  some  areas  in  the  early  morning 
and,  therefore,  the  ideal  location  for  the  camp 
stove  and  table  is  one  which  receives  sunlight 
during  the  morning  hours. 

On  recreation  areas  which  are  close  to  the 
lake  shore,  the  stove  or  fireplace  should  be  so 


oriented  that  the  opening  will  be  toward  the 
lake,  from  which  direction  the  prevailing  breeze 
usually  comes.  In  locations  protected  from  the 
wind  at  all  times,  such  as  in  heavy  timber,  the 
question  of  orientation  is  not  important.  This  is 
likewise  the  case  with  camp  stoves  of  the  high- 
chimney  type,  where  the  chimney  provides  the 
natural  draft. 

In  the  fireplace  type,  especially  those  types 
which  have  a  chimney-notch  effect,  and  in 
those  types  without  a  chimney  but  with  one  end 
closed,  it  is  most  essential  that  the  opening  to 
the  firebox  be  directed  toward  the  prevailing 
wind.  A  very  careful  study  should  be  made  of 
the  prevailing  wind  and  the  extent  to  which  it 
is  constant  in  any  one  direction  during  any 
definite  time  of  the  year,  in  order  to  orient  the 
fireplace  accordingly. 

On  most  campgrounds,  the  automobile  is  the 
family  larder,  and  for  this  reason  there  is  con- 
siderable traffic  between  the  camp  stove  and 
the  automobile.  The  distance  between  the 
camp  stove  and  the  parking  spur  should,  there- 
fore, not  be  so  great  that  inconvenience  will  be 
experienced  in  going  from  the  stove  to  the  car 
(pi.  XXVII). 

The  cooking  unit  should  not  be  located  where 
there  is  excessive  wind  exposure,  and  this  is 
particularly  true  in  areas  which  have  a  con- 
siderable fire  hazard. 

On  some  picnic  areas  designed  for  group 
picnics,  it  may  be  desirable  to  have  the  stove 
or  fireplace  in  multiple  units  as  shown  on  plates 
XIII  and  III  A.  The  multiple  units  may  be  lo- 
cated at  one  or  at  both  ends  of  the  picnic  area. 

FIRE  HAZARD 

Whenever  one  seeks  the  forest  as  a  source  of 
recreation  and  has  occasion  to  build  a  fire  for 
cooking  or  for  warming  purposes,  he  imme- 
diately creates  a  fire  hazard.  This  fire  hazard 
may  be  very  small  upon  the  more  open  areas 
where  the  types  of  vegetation  are  not  dense  or 
of  a  kind  not  readily  inflammable.  On  other 
areas  the  fire  hazard  may  be  very  great, 
especially  in  the  large  types  of  evergreen  timber 
and  in  arid  sections  where  extremely  dry 
weather  prevails  during  the  hot  summer  months, 
which  include  the  period  of  heaviest  recrea- 
tional use.  In  the  forest  areas  where  duff  and 
humus  are  on  the  ground  in  any  amount,  it  is 
very  important  that  sand  or  gravel  be  spread 


10 


over  the  surface  of  the  ground  to  a  distance  of 
at  least  5  feet  from  the  fireplace  at  the  front 
and  on  the  sides.  This  duff  is  highly  inflam- 
mable and  in  general  it  should  be  entirely 
removed  or  else  well  covered  with  sand  or 
gravel.  In  some  instances  an  area  approxi- 
mating 6  to  8  feet  in  width  and  of  equal  length 
is  sometimes  paved  with  flagging  immediately 
in  front  of  camp  stove  or  Hreplace.  An  area  of 
paving  of  this  size  is  not  necessary  and  usually 
detracts  very  much  from  the  appearance  of  the 
camp  stove  or  fireplace. 

There  are  a  number  of  methods  which  are 
adopted  for  controlhng  the  fire  hazard.  Among 
the  more  effective  of  these  methods  are  the 
following: 

A.  Use  of  water  or  earth  to  extinguish  fires  before 
leaving  them .  (Earth  is  preferred  where  fireplace  is 
not  lined  with  fare-clay  brick.) 

B.  Construction  of  chimneys  with  dampers  and  spark 
arresters. 

C.  Construction  of  fare  lane  around  the  recreation  area. 

D.  Use  of  a  type  of  fuel  wliich  produces  a  minimum 
quantity  of  sparks. 

E.  Use  of  plates  instead  of  grates  for  fareplaces. 

Since  fire  is  the  worst  enemy  of  the  forest,  it  is 
important  that  all  stoves  and  fireplaces  be  lo- 
cated and  designed  to  create  a  minimum  fire 
hazard. 

FUEL   PROBLEMS 

When  the  campground  or  picnic  area  is  locat- 
ed where  there  is  an  ample  supply  of  fuel,  the 
fuel  problem  is  not  an  important  factor.  Diffi- 
culty is  encountered  where  the  supply  of  wood 
for  fuel  is  limited.  In  some  of  the  suburban, 
municipal,  and  metropohtan  park  areas  near 
large  centers  of  population,  the  fuel  problem  is 
very  serious.  In  such  areas,  it  is  almost  neces- 
sary to  confine  the  use  of  fuel  to  charcoal. 

It  is  advisable,  whether  or  not  fuel  is  scarce, 
to  have  some  method  of  controlling  the  use  of 
fuel  and,  especially,  of  discouraging  its  ex- 
cessive use.   On  some  campgrounds  and  picnic 


areas,  the  occupants  cut  their  own  wood  from 
a  designated  area,  and  the  trees  which  may  be 
removed  are  definitely  marked  or  designated.  In 
hardwood  forests,  this  procedure  is  not  practical 
because   the   green   wood  is   difficult  to  burn. 

Wherever  a  supply  of  wood  for  stove  and 
fireplace  use  is  placed  in  piles  near  the  camp 
stove  or  fireplace,  and  the  occupants  are 
allowed  to  use  it  freely  and  vnthout  charge, 
there  is  apt  to  be  a  great  waste  of  fuel  and  an 
increased  cost  of  maintenance.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  suitable  fuel  is  stored  in  a  stock  pile 
within  a  reasonable  distance  of  any  group  of 
fireplaces  or  stoves,  the  occupants  of  the  area 
wiU  be  less  inclined  to  waste  wood,  because  of 
the  additional  labor  required  to  carry  the  extra 
wood  from  the  stock  pile  to  the  fireplace.  In 
general,  wood  is  more  apt  to  be  wasted  on 
picnic  areas  than  upon  campgrounds. 

The  most  effective  procedure  for  controlhng 
the  consumption  of  fuel  is  to  authorize  someone 
to  maintain,  for  the  benefit  of  any  intensively 
used  campground  or  picnic  area,  a  "wood 
yard"  from  which  wood  may  be  purchased. 
Through  such  a  concession  the  campers  and 
picnickers  are  not  inclined  to  waste  fuel,  and 
the  maintenance  cost  otherwise  incurred  for 
providing  fuel  is  avoided.  In  some  recreation 
areas  wood  is  supplied  in  bundles  and  a  small 
charge  is  made  for  each  bundle  as  it  is  taken 
from  the  "wood  yard." 

On  intensively  used  campgrounds  and  picnic 
areas  the  Forest  Service  will  probably  find  it 
advisable  to  furnish  firewood  through  a  conces- 
sionaire for  a  service  charge  sufficient  to  cover 
this  item  and  other  items  of  service  essential  for 
the  proper  administration  of  the  area. 

In  densely  wooded  areas  where  fireplaces 
are  situated  in  such  locations  that  the  sparks 
from  the  burning  wood  may  set  fire  to  the  sur- 
rounding trees,  the  picnickers  should  be  re- 
quested to  use  charcoal,  which  they  bring  or 
may  buy  on  the  site. 


DISCUSSION    OF    DETAILED    DESIGN 


FOUNDATIONS 

Fireplaces  which  are  constructed  of  loose 
boulders  (pi.  I,  fig.  1)  require  no  foundation. 
The  lower  stones  should  be  set  into  the  ground 
approximately  one-half  of  their  depth. 

All  stoves  and  fireplaces  of  masonry  con- 
struction should  set  upon  a  concrete  or  a 
masonry  foundation. 

The  foundation  may  be  of  two  kinds: 

(a)  A  reenlorced  concrete  slab  which  does  not  extend 
below  the  frost  depth  (pis.  II,  IV,  and  VIII). 

(b)  A  concrete  or  masonry  foundation  which  extends 
below  the  frost  depth  (pis.  XI  and  XII). 

In  locations  where  it  is  not  practical  to  con- 
struct concrete  foundations,  the  grate  shown  in 
plate  III  may  be  anchored  with  a  "log  dead- 
man"  as  shown  in  figure  6. 

The  concrete  slab  must  be  properly  reen- 
lorced with  wire  mesh  or  bars,  in  order  to 
prevent  any  rupture  from  frost  action.  The 
foundation  which  extends  below  the  frost  line 
need  not  be  reenforced,  and  may  be  con- 
structed of  stone,  brick,  concrete,  or  cement 
block,  or  any  similar  material  which  is  avail- 
able in  the  locality. 

In  constructing  the  foundation,  a  pit  of  the 
proper  dimensions  is  excavated.  The  reen- 
forced concrete  "floating  pad"  should  rest 
upon  the  natural  subsoil.  If  any  fill  is  necessary 
on  which  to  construct  the  reenforced  concrete 
pad,  it  should  be  limited  to  a  few  inches  {other- 
wise another  location  should  be  selected),  and 
this  fill  should  preferably  consist  of  masonry, 
although  it  may  be  laid  "dry"  if  thoroughly 
compacted. 

For  the  foundation  which  extends  below  frost 
depth,  the  bottom  of  the  pit  is  filled  with  a  mix- 
ture of  concrete  into  which  "spalls"  may  be 
thrown.  The  material  is  thoroughly  tamped  and 
the  concrete  constructed  upon  it. 

The  concrete  mixture  should  be  as  follows: 

(a)  Where  screened  aggregate  is  used,  the  mixture 
should  be  one  part  cement,  two  parts  sand,  and 
four  parts  of  coarse  aggregate,  graded  to  a  size  of 
approximately  1  inch. 


(b)  Where  unscreened  aggregate  is  used,  the  mixture 
should  be  one  part  cement,  and  six  parts  of  pre- 
graded  gravel  with  a  maximum  size  of  gravel  pass- 
ing a  I'  S-inch  screen. 

If  the  fireplace  is  generally  low,  and  there  is 
no  excessive  weight  at  one  end,  which  might 
cause  the  structure  to  settle  unequally,  a  re- 
enforced concrete  "floating  pad"  is  sufficient 
for  all  normal  requirements  (pis.  II  and  IV). 
The  average  height  of  the  low  fireplace  includ- 
ing this  proposed  foundation  is  approximately 
24  to  30  inches.  The  resulting  weight  per  square 
foot  approximates  480  pounds.  Average  clay 
soil  is  capable  of  supporting  approximately  1 
ton  per  square  foot,  or  four  times  this  load.  Inas- 
much as  the  average  site  chosen  for  a  fireplace 
is  on  the  firmer  soils,  the  normal  weight  is  far 
below  that  which  the  soil  is  capable  of  support- 
ing and  therefore,  the  question  of  foundations 
in  the  majority  of  these  fireplaces,  even  where 
extreme  temperatures  are  experienced,  is  one 
of  providing  a  footing  which  is  properly  reen- 
forced near  the  upper  surface  (pi.  IV,  fig.  4)  to 
allow  for  the  heaving  and  settling  of  the  fire- 
place as  a  unit. 

In  most  of  the  larger  camp  stoves  with  a 
chimney,  where  excessive  weight  occurs  at  the 
chimney  end,  the  foundation  wall  should  extend 
below  the  frost  line  (pi.  XI). 

FIREBOX 

The  size  of  the  firebox  has  a  direct  bearing  on 
fuel  consumption.  In  areas  where  fuel  is  scarce 
and  charcoal  is  used,  its  size  should  be  kept  to 
the  minimum  dimensions  (height  6  to  7  inches, 
length  18  inches,  width  12  to  14  inches).  It  is 
also  desirable  when  charcoal  is  used  as  a  fuel, 
to  so  design  the  firebox  that  there  is  a  small 
opening  in  the  bottom  of  the  firebox  through 
which  the  necessary  draft  may  be  created,  to 
cause  the  necessary  combustion  in  charcoal. 
The  firebox  in  the  camp  stove  (used  for  cooking 
only)  requires  less  width  than  the  firebox  in 
the  fireplace  (used  also  as  a  warming  feature). 
The  cooking  surface  should  be  of  sufficient  area 


12 


(average  area  approximates  2'/2  square  feet) 
to  accommodate  at  least  a  frying  pan  and  a 
coffee  pot.  The  area  may  be  increased,  as 
hereafter  explained,  if  more  cooking  surface  is 
required. 

The  size  of  the  firebox  is  to  some  extent  de- 
termined by  the  amount  of  surface  wliich  is 
desired  for  cooking  purposes.  In  the  larger 
unit,  the  dimensions  will  approximate  the 
following:  Height  8  to  10  inches,  length  20  to 
30  inches,  and  width  12  to  18  inches.  The  height 
is  normally  from  8  to  10  inches,  inasmuch  as 
the  best  cooking  fire  comes  from  the  glowing 
coals  rather  than  from  a  high  flaming  fire. 

In  order  to  procure  increased  cooking  and 
warming  surface  and  at  the  same  time  preserve 
the  minimum  dimensions  of  the  firebox,  a  type 
of  design  may  be  adopted  as  shown  on  plate 
XIII,  figure  3.  The  open  area  between  the 
firebox  and  the  flue  virtually  becomes  a  part 
of  the  flue,  although  it  is  covered  with  a  sohd 
plate,  the  surface  of  which  is  sufficiently  hot 
for  cooking. 

The  open  end  of  the  firebox  should  face  the 
prevailing  wind.  The  shape  of  the  firebox  is 
normally  rectangular.  Sides  splayed  to  the 
front  are  of  some  advantage  in  the  case  of  a 
warming  fire;  but  they  add  to  the  difficulty  of 
procuring  and  installing  the  grates,  plates,  and 

lining. 

In  all  stoves  and  fireplaces  the  firebox  should 
be  so  constructed  that  there  is  a  sUght  slope 
from  the  back  of  the  hearth  to  the  front  of  the 
hearth,  in  order  that  any  water  which  accumu- 
lates on  the  hearth  will  immediately  drain  out 
of  the  firebox. 

Because  of  the  fact  that  the  ordinary  kind  of 
stone  available  for  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces 
is  not  resistant  to  sudden  extremes  of  heat  and 
cold  without  undue  damage,  the  best  practice 
is  to  Hne  the  firebox  with  fire-clay  brick  in  order 
to  protect  the  stonework  against  direct  exposure 
to  these  extremes.  In  some  instances,  a  lining 
of  10-gage  sheet  iron,  made  to  conform  to  the 
measurements  of  the  proposed  firebox,  and 
with  a  grating  attached,  is  used  in  place  of  fire- 
brick. These  combined  grates  and  sheet-iron 
sides  can  be  manufactured  at  smaU  cost,  and 
where  the  cost  of  procuring  fire  brick  is  ab- 
normal, this  type  of  Hning  is  a  practical  answer 
to  the  problem  of  protecting  the  stone-masonry 


sides  against  injury  from  direct  exposure  to 
the  fire. 

Sometimes  it  has  seemed  desirable  to  con- 
struct a  precast  firebox  of  reinforced  concrete, 
so  that  the  firebox  may  be  set  into  a  space  sur- 
rounded by  stone  masonry  walls  which  forms 
the  sheU  of  the  camp  stove.  The  theory  being 
that  if  the  firebox  is  damaged  by  heat  it  can 
be  removed  easily  and  replaced  by  another 
firebox.  This  procedure  does  not  seem  to  be  a 
logical  procedure  for  the  reason  that  a  firebox 
of  a  much  more  permanent  character  can  be 
constructed  of  fire-clay  brick  as  a  permanent 
part  of  a  camp  stove.  Concrete  thus  exposed  to 
intense  heat  will  undoubtedly  suffer  definite 
damage  in  a  very  short  time. 

Ordinary  brick  is  sometimes  used  for  hning 
some  of  the  simpler  types  of  fireplaces  which 
are  not  intensively  used  and  which  are  not 
doused  with  water.  This  type  of  construction  is 
not  recommended.  In  locahties  where  lava 
rock  may  be  procured  easily,  the  lava  rock 
hning  is  equally  as  acceptable  as  fire-clay 
brick.  Ordinary  brick  will  shatter  and  disinte- 
grate if  subjected  to  extreme  and  sudden 
changes  in  temperature  caused  by  water 
dousing. 

Fire-clay  brick  (sometimes  called  fire  brick) 
is  mode  from  fire  clay  by  what  is  known  as  a 
dry  pressing  process.  In  this  process,  4  or  5 
percent  of  water  by  volume  is  added  to  the  dry 
fire  clay  which,  when  thus  moistened,  seems 
hardly  damp.  The  thoroughly  mixed  fire  clay 
is  then  formed  into  bricks  under  a  pressure 
estimated  to  approximate  4,000  to  5,000 
pounds  per  square  inch. 

Fire  clay,  from  which  hre-clay  brick  is  made 
is  dehned  by  the  American  Society  for  Testing 
Materials  as  a  "sedimentary  clay  of  low  flux 
content,  and  consisting  essentially  of  hydro- 
silicate  of  alumina."  There  are  at  least  six  or 
eight  distinct  kinds  of  fire  clay,  having  different 
properties  with  respect  to  chemical  composition. 

The  standard  size  of  fire-clay  brick  is  9  by 
4'j  by  2':  inches.  There  are  four  classes  of  fire- 
clay brick,  classified  according  to  heat  resist- 
ance. The  class  commonly  known  as  third 
quahty  fire-clay  brick,  or  correctly  designated 
as  moderate-heat-duty  brick  (according  to  the 
standard  definition),  is  generally  used  for  hning 
fireboxes  and  hearths  in  camp  stoves  and  hre- 


13 


places.  The  softening  point  oi  this  brick  is 
approximately  2,905°  F.  and  its  maximum 
expansion  is  one-sixteenth  inch  per  foot  at  a 
temperature  of  approximately  2,200°.  Con- 
crete will  seldom  withstand  a  temperature  in 
excess  of  1,000°  F.  and  the  normal  temperature 
in  the  average  camp  stove  or  fireplace  ranges 
from  800°  to  approximately  1,500°.  The  co- 
efficient of  expansion  of  fire-clay  brick  is  about 
one-third  or  one-fourth  of  the  coefficient  of 
expansion  of  iron.  In  decimal  figures,  this  co- 
efficient is  0.000005  for  each  degree  centi- 
grade. 

Fire-clay  brick  is  usually  laid  on  its  natural 
bed,  but  sometimes  it  is  laid  on  side.  In  laying 
iire-clay  brick  in  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces 
which  are  exposed  to  the  weather,  the  fire-clay 
mortar  should  be  a  mixture  of  fire  clay  with  ap- 
proximately 20  to  25  percent  of  portland  cement 
by  bulk.  This  mortar  is  "buttered"  lightly  with  a 
trowel  on  the  surfaces  of  the  brick  and  should 
make  a  joint  approximately  one-sixteenth  inch 
in  thickness.  If  the  ftre  clay  is  spread  too  thick- 
ly, it  virill  destroy  the  strength  of  the  fire-clay 
brick  hning.  This  joint  should  be  just  as  thin 
as  it  is  practicable  to  make  it. 

The  reason  for  keeping  fire-clay  mortar  very 
thin  on  the  surface  of  the  bricks  is  because  the 
lire  clay  used  in  the  joint  between  the  bricks  is 
not  as  resistant  to  heat  as  is  the  fire-clay  brick 
itself.  The  joint  would,  therefore,  have  a  tend- 
ency to  shrink  and  cause  damage  if  the  joint 
were  even  as  thick  as  one-fourth  of  an  inch. 
This  thin  joint  is  sometimes  procured  by  dipping 
the  fire-clay  brick  in  hre  clay  of  a  rich,  creamy 
consistency  and  pushing  the  brick  into  place  by 
rubbing  the  top  brick  back  and  forth  on  the 
lower  brick. 

Many  instances  are  observed  in  which  ap- 
parent defective  construction  has  not  produced 
satisfactory  results  in  the  construction  of  the 
fire-clay  brick  lining. 

For  the  best  results,  fire  clay  used  to  create 
a  bond  between  fire-clay  brick  should  be  sub- 
jected to  a  temperature  exceeding  1,600'^'  to 
1,800°  F.  in  order  to  cause  the  chemical  reac- 
tion required  to  make  the  joint  permanent.  It 
is  doubtful  if  the  heat  produced  through  the 
normal  use  of  any  firebox  is  sufficient  to  cause 
the  permanent  chemical  change  necessary  to 
produce  the  desired  result. 

The  best  results  are  procured  in  the  construc- 


tion of  fireboxes  for  outdoor  camp  stoves  and 
fireplaces  when,  to  the  fire  clay,  there  is  added 
by  volume  approximately  20  to  25  percent  of 
Portland  cement  or  similar  cement.  The  addi- 
tion of  this  cement  produces  a  "cold  set", 
which  the  subsequent  heat  further  fixes,  with 
the  result  that  this  fire  clay  and  cement  joint 
creates  a  solid  and  permanent  bond. 

It  is  desirable,  in  any  event,  whether  or  not 
cement  is  added  to  the  fire  clay,  to  subject  the 
lining  of  the  fireplace  to  an  intense  fire  for  at 
least  4  or  5  hours.  If  fire  clay  is  used  without 
the  addition  of  cement,  this  fire  should  be  suffi- 
ciently intense  and  continued  sufficiently  long 
so  that  the  inside  surface  of  the  brick  shows 
evidences  of  starting  to  glow.  Unless  this  pro- 
cedure is  adopted  the  joint  will  be  damaged  by 
rain  and  by  freezing. 

There  are  on  the  market  air-setting,  high- 
temperature  cements  which  vnll  create  an 
excellent  bond  under  a  cold  set.  It  is  doubtful 
if  high-temperature  cements  will  be  as  perma- 
nent as  the  bond  produced  by  a  mixture  of  fire 
clay  and  portland  cement  or  its  equivalent,  as 
above  suggested. 

The  average  mortar  will  not  usually  with- 
stand any  considerable  amount  of  heat  because 
of  the  content  of  lime  which  fluxes  under  heat 
and  because  of  the  content  of  sand  which  does 
not  have  refractory  qualities  to  the  extent  re- 
quired in  these  joints. 

In  filling  the  space  between  the  back  of  the 
fire-clay  brick  lining  and  the  face  of  the  stone 
masonry  shell  or  covering,  the  fire  clay,  prop- 
erly moistened,  should  be  mixed  with  pulverized 
calsined  fire  clay  in  the  proportions  of  one  part 
fire  clay  to  two  or  three  parts  of  the  calsined 
fire  clay.  It  is  not  recommended  that  this  space 
be  filled  with  pure  fire  clay  for  the  reason  that 
the  natural  fire  clay  will  shrink  to  a  consider- 
able extent  when  subjected  to  intense  heat. 
The  fire  clay  should  be  mixed  as  above  indi- 
cated with  calsined  clay  because  the  calsined 
clay  has  been  subjected  to  a  considerable  heat 
and  will  therefore  not  be  subject  to  any  con- 
siderable amount  of  shrinking. 

The  space  between  the  fire-clay  brick  lining 
and  the  stone  masonry  backing  must  be  com- 
pletely grouted  and  thoroughly  sealed  at  the 
top  to  prevent  any  water  from  entering.  In  some 
camp  stoves  where  intense  heat  is  developed, 
an  air  space  between  the  fire-clay  brick  lining 


14 


and  the  face  oi  the  stone  masonry  is  provided. 
This  method  of  construction  is  open  to  some 
question.  Sometimes  this  air  space  is  filled  with 
powdered  asbestos  in  order  to  further  protect 
the  stone  masonry  against  intense  heat. 

It  is  also  advisable  to  construct  the  hearth, 
or  floor  of  the  firebox,  with  fire-clay  brick 
unless,  as  in  the  fireplace  shown  on  plate  VII, 
figure  6,  the  surface  of  the  hearth  is  level  with 
the  surrounding  ground,  in  which  case  it  may 
be  equally  as  well  constructed  of  mineral  earth 
or  natural  porous  soil. 

In  the  fireplace  with  closed  back  (pis.  Ill,  IV, 
V,  etc.),  the  only  real  draft  control  is  in  the 
orientation  with  respect  to  the  direction  of  the 
prevaihng  wind.  A  raised  back  somewhat  im- 
proves the  draft,  and  a  movable  solid  plate 
may  sometimes  be  used  in  connection  with  the 
raised  back  to  further  control  the  draft. 

The  chimney  notch  shown  in  plate  VIII  in- 
creases the  draft  by  restricting  the  gases  to  a 
definite  limited  passage.  The  maximum  con- 
trol of  draft  is  obtained  where  a  chimney  is 
used.  The  draft  is  further  controlled  by  damp- 
ers in  the  doors  at  the  front  of  the  firebox  and 
also  by  dampers  in  the  chimney.  The  chimney 
may  vary  in  height,  as  shown  in  plates  X  and 
XII. 

The  door  on  the  front  of  the  firebox  may  be 
of  cast  iron  or  sheet  iron,  in  conformity  with 
the  materials  used  for  the  cooking  top.  Besides 
being  hinged  so  that  it  can  be  fully  opened 
there  may  be,  as  shown  in  plate  XXII- A,  figs.  3, 
4,  and  5,  a  small  opening  in  the  door  to  provide 
draft. 

A  draft  control  necessary  to  maintain  the 
desired  fire  may  be  provided  in  one  of  three 
ways  as  foUows: 

A.  By  an  ashpit  under  the  firebox,  on  the  front  of  which 
is  a  door  which  may  be  opened  or  closed  to  produce 
greater  or  less  draft. 

B.  By  an  opening  in  the  door  as  shown  in  plate  XXII  A, 
hgures  3,  4,  and  5. 

C.  By  a  damper  constructed  m  the  chimney  (pi.  XXII, 
fig.  3),  or  by  a  damper  constructed  in  the  rear  of  the 
firebox  at  the  point  where  the  flue  enters  the  chimney. 

It  is  apparently  necessary  in  some  localities 
of  extreme  moisture  conditions,  and  especially 
in  high  altitudes  where  much  fog  is  prevalent, 
to  procure  a  maximum  draft  by  providing  an 
ashpit  under  the  firebox.  The  ashpit  is  not 
generally  recommended  nor  usually  essential 


in  the  average  camp  stove.  It  ought  not  to  be 
constructed  unless  the  requirements  for  max- 
imum draft,  to  burn  wood  not  thoroughly  dry, 
make  such  an  ashpit  indispensable. 

Under  normal  conditions,  sufficient  draft 
control  may  be  had  through  the  adjustment  of 
the  doors  in  the  ftrebox.  Sometimes  the  draft  in 
the  chimney  is  controlled  by  a  pivoted  iron  plate 
on  the  top  of  the  chimney.  The  value  of  this  de- 
vice is  open  to  question.  The  built-in  type  of 
damper  with  the  revolving  metal  shield  (pi. 
XXII,  fig.  3)  is  the  most  effective;  but  its  opera- 
tion is  not  fool-proof.  No  damper  should  be  in- 
stalled which  does  not  leave  a  limited  portion  of 
the  flue  (approximately  35  percent  of  its  area) 
free  when  the  damper  is  practically  closed. 

TOP  GRATE  OR  TOP  PLATE 

The  top  of  the  stove  or  fireplace  may  consist  of 
a  grate  (simple  bars  or  a  fabricated  grate)  or 
a  solid  plate.  In  some  instances,  in  place  of  a 
definite  grate  a  heavy  electric  welded  wire 
mesh  is  being  used.  This  type  of  grate  is  less 
expensive  than  the  iron  plate.  The  sohd  plate 
provides  better  draft  and  a  better  control  over 
the  draft.  Its  use  reduces  the  fire  hazard  and  is 
sometimes  necessary  in  certain  locations  where 
the  fire  hazard  is  great.  In  some  States  laws 
have  been  enacted  making  it  compulsory  to  use 
on  camp  stoves  a  solid  plate  for  the  top  of  the 
stove  and  a  door  on  the  front  of  the  firebox 
which  at  all  times  prevents  any  possibility  for 
sparks  to  escape  and  cause  a  forest  fire.  In 
picnic  fireplaces,  except  those  used  for  warm- 
ing purposes,  the  grate  is  generally  adopted 
but  in  a  few  instances  a  solid  plate  is  used. 
On  camp  stoves,  where  the  camper  desires  to 
keep  the  pots  and  pans  from  smudging,  a  solid 
plate  is  generally  used.  In  many  instances,  and 
where  the  use  justifies  the  expense,  a  combina- 
tion grate  and  plate  top  is  used  (pis.  X  and 
III  A). 

In  some  fireplaces,  a  successful  method  of 
cooking  is  that  of  using  a  reflector  plate  of 
sheet  iron  or  other  metal,  which  can  be  stood 
at  an  angle  of  approximately  60°  immediately 
in  front  of  the  opening  of  the  fireplace,  and  sup- 
ported by  an  arm  which  keeps  the  plate  at  the 
proper  position  in  relation  to  the  fire.  This 
contrivance  is  often  used  in  place  of  a  grate  or 
plate  over  the  top  of  the  fire,  and  it  may  be 
home-made   or   purchased   from    some   supply 


15 


houses  with  the  necessary  attachments  to  hold 
food  which  would  otherwise  be  laid  upon  the 
grate  or  plate.  This  method  of  cooking  avoids 
unnecessary  burning  of  food  and  is  almost  as 
efficient  as  the  method  of  cooking  food  over  the 
top  of  the  fire. 

Where  the  combination  plate  and  grate  is 
used,  the  plate  may  be  used  over  a  part  of  the 
grate  as  shown  on  plate  III  A,  figures  1  and  3. 
Such  an  arrangement  makes  possible  an  area 
for  warming  and  grilling,  and  also  an  area  for 
frying  and  other  cooking. 

In  instances  where  the  plate  is  used  to  cover 
the  entire  grate,  both  the  grate  and  the  plate 
may  be  hinged  as  shown  in  plate  X,  figure  4, 
or  both  the  plate  and  the  grate  may  be  attached 
by  a  chain  to  the  sides  of  the  fireplace  (pi.  VII). 

The  plate  is,  without  a  doubt,  the  ideal  top 
for  a  camp  stove  where  the  stove  is  used  for 
three  meals  during  each  day.  In  picnic  areas, 
where  the  fireplace  is  used  for  cooking  pur- 
poses, perhaps  once  during  the  day  and 
possibly  not  every  day,  a  grate  or  mesh  is 
acceptable,  although  the  extra  work  of  clean- 
ing blackened  pots  and  pans  is  necessary. 
The  fabricated  grate  or  mesh  (pi.  VI)  is  much 
preferable  to  built-in  bars  shown  in  plate  IV. 

It  is  very  important  that  the  space  between 
the  bars  in  any  grate  be  not  too  large,  thus 
allowing  small  sections  of  meat  to  fall  between 
the  bars.  The  average  acceptable  space  be- 
tween bars  is  IVj  inches.  The  use  of  separate 
bars,  although  not  the  most  acceptable  solu- 
tion, is  sometimes  necessary  where,  either 
because  of  lack  of  funds  or  for  other  reasons,  a 
suitable  fabricated  grate  or  mesh  cannot  be 
procured. 

The  bars  to  be  of  proper  strength  should  be 
approximately  '  7  to  'i  inch  square,  or  they  may 
be  circular,  with  a  diameter  of  '4  to  1  inch. 

The  plate  ought  to  be  of  sheet  iron  or  cast 
iron.  Ten-gage  black  iron  or  boilerplate  offers 
a  quick  heating  surface.  Cast-iron  plate,  if  too 
thick,  usually  heats  too  slowly.  A  normal  thick- 
ness is  three-eighths  inch. 

Considerable  difficulty  may  be  experienced 
because  of  the  tendency  of  any  top  plate  of 
sheet  iron  to  warp  and  sag.  This  undesirable 
result  is  caused  by  the  following  conditions: 

A.  Using  a  plate  of  iron  which  is  too  thin. 

B.  Not  using  the  necessary  angle  irons  or  other  methods 
of  reenforcing  the  top  plate. 


C.  Making  no  provision  for  expansion  at  the  points 
where  the  plate  is  attached  to  the  masonry  construc- 
tion. 

Removable  cast-iron  plates  are  not  as  prac- 
tical as  sheet-iron  plates  for  the  reason  that  the 
rough  handling  which  is  received  by  some  of 
these  movable  tops  will  cause  breakage.  In 
all  removable  plates  there  should  be  one  or 
more  holes  at  some  convenient  location  to 
facilitate  handling.  The  cast-iron  tops  may 
sometimes  be  fitted  wnth  pot  holes  of  various 
sizes,  each  of  which  is  covered  with  a  lid  or 
sheet-iron  plate,  all  of  which  must  be  securely 
anchored  to  prevent  removal  or  loss.  Such  small 
movable  parts  are  not  entirely  practical  in  the 
average  campground  and  their  use  should  be 
discouraged. 

Steel  plates  should  not  be  used  because  steel 
rusts  easily  when  exposed  to  the  weather, 
unless  protected  with  paint  and  carefully  main- 
tained. 

Flanges  at  the  edges  of  the  plates  as  shown 
in  plate  VIII,  figure  1  and  in  plate  XXII, 
figure  4  and  extending  entirely  across  the  fire- 
box will  do  much  to  prevent  sagging.  The 
problem  of  warping  is  one  which  comes  from 
exposure  to  heat  and  is  not  due  to  any  great 
extent  to  the  inability  of  the  plate  to  support 
itself.  Proper  reenforcing  on  the  underside  of 
the  plate  and  correct  attachment  of  the  plate 
to  the  masonry  sides  of  the  stove  or  fireplace 
will  overcome  it. 

A  desirable  method  for  attaching  any  plate 
to  the  solid  masonry  is  to  provide  proper  reen- 
forcing members  on  the  underside  of  the  plate, 
the  end  of  which  will  fit  into  a  metal  socket 
similar  to  that  shown  in  plate  XXI,  figure  5, 
thus  allowing  for  the  necessary  expansion 
and  preventing  any  damage  to  the  stone 
masonry  at  this  point.  Where  bars  are  used, 
the  ends  of  the  bars  should  fit  into  pipe  sleeves 
of  somewhat  large  diameter  and  with  ample 
clearance  allowed  in  order  to  provide  for 
the  expansion  (pi.  IV,  fig.  4).  Provision  may 
be  made  as  shown  in  plate  XXI,  figure  5B, 
for  the  removal  and  replacement  of  bars  which 
are  broken  or  bent  through  careless  use  of  the 
fireplace.  Where  bars  are  used  in  place  of  a 
fabricated  grate,  it  is  sometimes  desirable  to 
carry  the  bars  in  sockets  entirely  through  the 
stone  masonry  wall,  as  shown  in  plate  XXI, 
figure    5C.     In    cases    where    this    method    of 


16 


construction  is  adopted,  some  provision  should 
be  made  for  locking  the  bars  so  that  they  can- 
not be  easily  removed.  This  is  accomplished 
as  shown  in  plate  XXI,  figure  5,  section  A-A. 
Attaching  bars  and  grates  solidly  to  masonry 
will  break  the  stone.  If  a  fixed  grate  is  used, 
the  grate  may  be  so  constructed  that  the  corners 
will  have  bars  which  fit  into  metal  sleeves  as 
above  described.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  top 
plate  and  any  bars  should  never  be  attached 
in  a  fixed  manner  to  the  top  of  the  stone 
masonry.  Suitable  provision  should  be  made 
to  take  care  of  expansion.  Where  the  grate  is 
removable  it  can  rest  on  a  base  formed  by 
the  top  layer  of  fire-clay  brick  as  shown  in 
plate  VII. 

The  question  of  whether  to  use  a  removable 
or  a  fixed  top  has  not  been  satisfactorily  solved 
as  a  result  of  experience  to  date.  The  remov- 
able top  increases  the  convenience  of  building 
fires  and  removing  ashes.  The  fixed  top  on  the 
other  hand,  is  an  additional  safeguard  against 
vandalism  and  otherwise  careless  use  of  these 
facilities. 

Where  a  solid  plate  is  used,  especially  in 
fireplaces,  it  is  desirable  that  this  plate  be 
removable  or  hinged  so  that  the  fireplace  may 
be  used  as  an  open  warming  fire  during  the 
evenings  and  on  cool  days  at  times  when 
the  fireplace  is  not  in  use  for  actual  cooking 
purposes. 

If  the  top  is  removable,  it  should  be  securely 
attached  with  a  chain,  anchored  to  the 
masonry,  or  to  a  post  driven  in  the  ground  to  a 
sufficient  depth  to  prevent  any  removal  of  this 
feature. 

Where  a  hinge  is  used  for  attaching  the  plate 
or  grate  to  the  top  of  the  stove  or  fireplace,  the 
type  of  construction  as  shown  in  plates  VI  and 
X  is  most  acceptable.  If  the  top  grate  or  plate 
is  to  be  hinged,  this  detail  of  construction  should 
be  solid,  and  of  such  a  type  that  damage 
cannot  be  easily  caused  by  careless  handling. 
See  detail  of  hinge  in  plate  XXI,  figures  2, 
3,  and  4. 

As  shown  in  plate  IV,  it  is  sometimes  neces- 
sary to  sink  the  grate  or  plate  slightly  below  the 
level  of  the  side  "shoulders"  in  order  to  provide 
for  the  proper  anchoring  of  the  hinges  or  the 
bars.  The  elevation  of  the  side  walls  may  also 
give  some  small  protection,  especially  to  the 
fire  when  the  grate  is  used. 


In  many  camp  stoves  and  in  fireplaces  with 
a  solid  top,  an  abnormal  amount  of  heat  is  lost 
because  it  passes  up  the  chimney.  This  condi- 
tion can  be  corrected  to  a  large  extent  by  the 
construction  of  a  proper  damper  in  the  chimney 
and  by  the  construction  of  a  shallow  firebox 
with  a  larger  heating  surface,  as  shown  in 
plate  XIII.  In  some  areas  where  the  proper  pro- 
vision is  not  made  to  prevent  an  abnormal 
amount  of  heat  from  passing  up  the  chimney, 
many  efficient  campers  set  some  of  the  pots  and 
other  cooking  utensils  on  the  top  of  the  chimney 
in  order  to  take  advantage  of  the  heat  at  that 
point. 

In  most  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  the 
limited  space  on  the  top  of  the  cooking  surface 
is  not  sufficient  to  set  all  of  the  pots  and  pans 
in  which  food  is  being  cooked  or  being  kept 
warm.  Additional  space  may  be  provided  as 
shown  in  plates  VI,  VII,  and  VIII,  with  very 
little  additional  cost. 

STONEWORK 

There  are  many  kinds  of  stone  available  in 
different  parts  of  the  country  from  which  to 
construct  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces.  This 
stone  ranges  from  the  "nigger  heads"  and 
boulders  of  the  New  England  region  to  the 
lava  rock  of  the  Northwest  and  the  Tufa  rock 
of  the  extreme  South. 

The  detailed  design  and  construction  of  any 
stove  or  fireplace,  of  which  various  types  are 
shown  in  the  following  plates,  will  vary  with 
the  kind  of  local  stone  which  can  be  procured. 
The  same  design,  built  of  volcanic  rock,  will 
take  on  a  different  texture  and  appearance 
from  the  one  constructed  of  stratified  sandstone 
or  of  boulders.  The  carrying  out  of  each  design 
in  the  materials  available  and  in  the  most 
appropriate  form  must,  to  considerable  extent, 
be  left  to  the  judgment  of  the  local  superin- 
tendent. 

All  stonework  should  be  constructed  as 
closely  as  practicable  in  accordance  with  the 
detailed  drawings.  A  special  effort  should  be 
made  to  procure  an  informal  texture  with 
stones  laid  on  their  natural  bed  in  order  to 
carry  the  horizontal  effect  (pis.  XXIV  and 
XXV).  There  may  be  rare  instances  in  which 
the  surrounding  natural  conditions  require 
that  the  stone  be  laid  to  produce  a  vertical 
texture. 


17 


All  stone  before  being  laid  should  be  free 
from  any  dirt  or  foreign  matter  and,  unless  the 
supply  of  stone  is  extremely  limited,  it  is  much 
better  to  select  individual  stones  of  the  size  and 
shape  which  will  produce  the  required  texture 
of  stonework  than  to  endeavor  to  use  the  large 
and  the  small  stones  as  they  are  found. 

Stones  which  are  cut  or  broken  are  usually 
divided  into  two  classes:  (a^l  Stratified;  (bi 
Unstratified. 

The  examples  of  stratified  stone  are  sand- 
stones, Hmestones,  and  shales.  Igneous  rock, 
granite,  and  lava  are  in  the  unstratified 
group. 

Stratified  stone  (pi.  XXV,  fig.  5)  is  easier  to 
lay  than  the  unstratified  stone  (pi.  XXIV,  fig.  5), 
which  requires  a  more  careful  selection  to  pro- 
duce desired  effect  in  actual  construction. 

Stone  texture  is  an  elusive  element  in  design 
because  so  much  depends  on  the  skill  of  the 
workmen.  A  camp  stove  or  fireplace  must  be 
practical  in  use,  and  it  must  be  of  appropriate 
design  in  mass  and  texture.  The  texture  of  the 
stone  masonry  is  so  frequently  not  well  designed 
(pi.  XXIV,  and  pi.  XXV,  figs.  2,  4,  and  6),  that 
its  importance  in  the  completed  structure  should 
not  be  minimized.  Many  of  these  features  look 
like  stone  piles  with  no  stability  or  like  monoliths 
of  mortar  and  stone  with  no  surface  texture. 

Joints  in  stonework  should  be  neat  and  ap- 
proximately '/2  to  ^/4  inch  wide.  The  color  of  the 
mortar  used  in  the  joints  should  blend  with  the 
natural  color  of  the  stone.  In  well-constructed 
stone  masonry,  the  mortar  is  not  conspicuous. 
In  any  event,  the  mortar  should  not  be  colored 
unless  it  is  necessary  to  avoid  unusually  light 
color  which  contrasts  unnecessarily  with  the 
color  of  the  stonework.  These  joints  should  be 
raked  fairly  deep  in  order  to  eliminate  so  far 
as  possible  the  effect  of  too  much  mortar,  and 
to  produce  the  effect  of  a  natural  dry  stone 
wall. 

CHIMNEYS 

The  chimney  does  not  add  to  the  attractiveness 
of  any  fireplace  or  camp  stove.  In  fact,  it  is  a 
rather  unattractive  feature  which  increases  the 
massiveness,  and  for  this  reason  it  should  be 
avoided  whenever  practical.  A  low  chimney 
is  sometimes  not  entirely  effective,  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  if  sufficiently  high  to  function  satis- 
factorily the  chimney  may  dominate  the  unit. 


The  chimney,  when  used,  may  range  from  the 
simple  funnel  (pi.  XXVI,  figs.  9,  10,  and  11)  on 
the  "ice  box"  and  "oil  drum"  types  of  camp 
stoves  to  a  definite  masonry  construction,  as 
shown  in  plates  XI  and  XII.  It  is  confined 
usually  to  the  camp  stove.  A  low  chimney  may 
sometimes  be  constructed  on  a  fireplace  of  the 
types  shown  in  plates  X  and  XI.  This  feature  is 
most  essential  where  the  fire  hazard  is  very 
great. 

The  height  of  the  chimney  should  be  kept  to 
a  minimum  and  may  vary  from  2  feet  above 
ground,  as  shown  in  plate  X,  to  6  or  7  feet,  as 
shown  in  plate  XIII. 

When  the  fire  hazard  is  much  above  normal, 
the  chimney  should  be  provided  with  a  damper 
control,  and  sometimes  with  a  spark  arrester 
(pi.  XXII,  fig.  3,  and  pi.  XIII,  fig.  3). 

If  the  spark  arrester  is  not  used,  there  is  great 
danger  that  the  live  sparks  may  be  carried  into 
highly  inflammable  timber.  The  spark  arrester 
is  a  small  mesh  of  woven  wire  screen  in  a  frame, 
held  in  place  at  the  top  of  the  flue  by  means  of 
prongs  or  clamps.  It  should  be  installed  in  such 
a  way  that  its  condition  may  be  easily  in- 
spected and  its  replacement  made  simple. 

The  throat  of  the  fireplace  is  that  portion 
leading  from  the  firebox  to  the  chimney  flue. 
In  the  regular  indoor  fireplace  (pi.  XXIII)  the 
opening  of  the  throat  is  about  equal  to  the  area 
of  the  flue  and  is  the  full  width  of  the  fireplace. 
In  the  camp  stove  fireplace  (pi.  XII),  here 
discussed,  the  full  width  may  not  always  be 
obtainable,  but  the  proper  area  should  be 
maintained,  and  so  far  as  possible  the  width 
of  the  throat  should  be  greater  than  its  height 
(pi.  XIII,  fig.  3). 

The  chimney  flue  should  in  every  instance 
be  lined  with  a  fire-clay  brick  or  with  some 
other  regular  lining.  The  height  of  the  chim- 
ney, the  size  of  the  firebox,  and  the  ashpit,  as 
well  as  exposure,  and  type  of  vegetation  sur- 
rounding the  camp  unit  are  important  factors 
in  the  control  of  the  draft.  In  general  the  area 
oi  the  horizontal  section  of  a  round  or  a  square 
flue  from  a  single  firebox  should  be  not  less 
than  one-tenth  of  the  transverse  vertical  section 
of  the  combined  firebox  and  ashpit.  An  arbi- 
trary minimum  area  for  the  flue  might  be  4 
inches  square.  A  rectangular  flue  should  some- 
what exceed  the  minimum  area  above  stated. 
In  camp  stoves  with  open  fronts  on  the  firebox. 


18 


the  flue  area  should  be  further  increased  as 
indicated  by  drawings.  A  flue  which  is  too 
large  in  relation  to  the  firebox,  tends  to  create 
a  sluggish  fire.  In  determining  the  size  of  flue 
for  camp  stoves  other  than  for  specific  ones 
illustrated  in  this  bulletin,  use  these  illustrations 
as  a  guide. 

In  the  multiple-unit  type  of  camp  stove,  with 
a  single  square  flue,  properly  lined,  division 
by  galvanized  metal  partitions  into  the  proper 


number  of  smaller  flues  of  proper  sizes  and 
each  serving  its  own  firebox,  is  essential  (pi. 
XIII,  fig.  4).  This  arrangement  will  prevent 
cold  air  from  being  drawn  in  from  any  unused 
firebox,  thereby  lessening  the  draft  from  the 
burning  fire.  The  metal  partitions  will  ulti- 
mately rust  out  and  must  be  replaced.  The  in- 
stallation of  any  damper  in  the  chimney  should 
be  in  accordance  with  drawings  shown  in 
plate  XXII,  figure  3. 


19 


MATERIALS   FOR   CONSTRUCTION 


J.HE  appearance  and  the  permanency  of 
camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  are  increased 
greatly  if  the  materials  for  construction  are 
selected  with  proper  care.  The  more  impor- 
tant materials  include  the  following: 

A.  Iron  (for  top  grates,  plates,  doors,  hinges,  etc.)- 

B.  Brick  (lor  lireboxes  and  flues). 

C.  Concrete  (for  foundations). 

D.  Stone  (for  masonry  construction  and  dry  stone  con- 
struction). 

E.  Sand  (for  mixtures  of  concrete  and  for  hearths). 

IRON    AND    BRICK 

Iron  and  brick  have  been  discussed  in  fore- 
going parts  of  this  bulletin. 

BRICK 

See  discussion  under  Fireboxes. 
CONCRETE 

Concrete  should  seldom  be  considered  except 
for  foundations.  Mixtures  for  concrete  are  dis- 
cussed under  Foundations. 

STONE 

The  natural  cHmatic  conditions  may  be  in- 
jurious to  some  kinds  of  stone,  especially  shales. 
In  locations  where  water  will  be  used  generally 
to  extinguish  the  fire,  very  careful  considera- 
tion should  be  given  to  the  kinds  of  stone  to  be 
selected  for  the  proposed  construction.  In  the 
order  of  their  resistance  to  heat  the  acceptable 
kinds  of  stone  are  the  following: 

A.  Dense  black  lava  rock. 

B.  Fine  grained  sandstone. 

C.  Coarse  grained  sandstone. 

D.  Granite. 

E.  Limestone. 

F.  Laminated  shale  and  river  stone. 

Limestones  and  shales  are  most  undesirable 
because  of  the  damaging  effects  of  intense  heat. 
These  stones  have  a  large  calcium  carbonate 
content.  Granite  will  to  some  extent  "flake", 
and  may  crack.  If  the  firebox  is  lined  with 
fire-clay  brick,  providing  a  means  of  protecting 
these  stones  from  intense  heat  or  sudden 
changes  of  extreme  temperatures,  any  of  the 
stones  in  this  list  will  be  acceptable. 

Sandstones  when  procured  with  fine  grain 


will  withstand  the  heat  in  an  excellent  manner. 
They  are  composed  of  fine  sand  which  is  held 
together  by  some  substances  of  a  cementing 
character,  usually  silica,  alumina,  or  oxide  of 
lime.  Those  with  the  silica  content  are  much 
more  desirable. 

Granite  is  formed  by  volcanic  action  and  is 
among  the  igneous  rocks  composed  of  quartz, 
felspar  and  mica.  Because  of  the  quartz  con- 
tent this  rock  has  good  resistance  to  heat.  On 
the  other  hand,  this  type  of  stone  is  much  more 
difficult  to  cut  than  sandstone. 

Slate  is  not  a  heat  resistant  stone  and  is 
subject  to  damage  under  high  temperature. 

A  Portland  cement  mortar,  or  a  mortar  of 
similar  qualities  is  desirable.  The  mix  should 
consist  of  one  part  cement,  one  part  fire  clay, 
and  five  parts  sand.  A  small  amount  of  hy- 
drated  lime  may  be  added  to  prevent  the  mor- 
tar from  setting  too  quickly.  This,  however, 
should  be  used  very  sparingly  and  is  not  es- 
sential. Mix  thoroughly  before  adding  water. 


There   are  two  kinds  of  sand  which   may  be 
procured  for  mortar,  as  follows: 


A.  Pit  sand 

B.  River  or  1 


r  bank  sand, 
ike  sand. 


The  difference  between  these  two  types  of 
sand  is  as  follows: 

The  river  sand  is  generally  free  from  any 
clay  content.  The  grains  are  less  angular  and 
in  general  it  is  less  desirable  for  use  in  mortar. 

Pit  or  bank  sand  usually  has  a  small  clay 
or  loam  content  which  must  be  washed  from  it 
in  order  to  get  the  particles  of  sand  clean. 
The  particles  of  sand  are  angular  and  some- 
what rough  and  therefore  make  it  much  more 
desirable  for  mortar  making. 

Sand  which  is  used  for  the  hearth  and  also 
for  the  area  around  the  fireplace  should  have 
a  small  proportion  (approximately  10  to  15  per- 
cent) of  clay  content,  in  order  that  there  may 
be  some  cementing  quality  in  this  mixture 
otherwise  the  sand  will  not  pack  and  become 
firm  under  foot,  especially  around  the  fireplace. 


20 


DETAILED    DISCUSSION 
OF    SPECIFIC    TYPES 


ADAPTATION    TO    LOCATION    AND    USE 

DESIGN    AND    CONSTRUCTION 

VARIATIONS    IN    DESIGN 


o> 


'N  THE  following  plates  are  shown  different  types  of  camp 
stoves  and  fireplaces,  ranging  from  the  very  elementary  and 
primitive  type  (pi.  I,  fig.  1),  to  the  very  "sophisticated"  and 
artificial  type  (pi.  I,  fig.  2).  In  connection  with  each  specific 
type  of  camp  stove  and  fireplace,  there  is  presented  a  discus- 
sion of  the  problems  of  adaptation  to  location  and  use,  and  of 
the  problems  of  design  and  construction. 

In  the  minds  of  some  readers,  these  dravnngs  may  indicate 
in  some  instances  solutions  which  seem  rather  ideal,  and  not 
capable  of  practical  application  because  of  the  fact  that  the 
most  desirable  kinds  and  shapes  of  stones  necessary  to  produce 
the  effect  shown  in  the  drawings  are  not  available.  These 
drawings  are  intended  to  show  only  in  a  general  way  the  kind 
of  design  which  may  be  followed  in  actual  construction.  Minor 
modifications  are  often  necessary  on  account  of  varying 
materials  and  conditions  on  different  areas  in  different  parts 
of  the  country. 

The  success  or  failure  in  procuring  the  kind  of  results  illus- 
trated in  the  drawings  depends  upon  the  ability  of  the  man 
who  is  superintending  the  construction  work  in  the  field,  and  of 
the  stone  mason  who  is  doing  the  work  of  actual  construction. 


21 


TYPES   OF   FIREPLACES 


JLHE  simple  types  shown  in  figures  1,  3,  4,  5, 
and  6B,  are  appropriate  for  forest  picnic  areas- 
They  are  not  adapted  for  camp  grounds  except 
where  the  camper  desires  to  accept  the  natural 
inconvencience  accompanying  "life  in  the 
wild."  Their  simplicity,  crudeness  of  construc- 
tion, and  inconspicuous  mass  are  strongly  in 
their  favor. 

FIGURE    I 

Crude  Fireplace  of  Boulders  or  Rocks 
Loosely  Piled  in  the  Shape  of  a  Horse- 
shoe. This  type  is  not  conspicuous;  it  is  in- 
convenient in  use  and  creates  an  abnormal 
fire  hazard.  It  has  a  place  on  large  open  picnic 
areas  because  it  is  not  conspicuous.  If  this  is 
the  only  type  of  fireplace  provided  on  the  camp 
grounds,  the  majority  of  the  campers  and  pic- 
nickers will  use  some  kind  of  a  portable  gas 
stove  (pi.  I,  fig.  2)  for  cooking  purposes.  The 
construction  of  this  type  of  fireplace  will  vary, 
depending  on  the  available  stone  {whether,  of 
the  boulder  type  or  of  the  stratified  type).  In 
portions  of  the  country  where  a  stratified  stone 
is  available,  a  few  flat  stones  might  be  used  on 
which  to  set  pots  and  pans  for  warming 
purposes. 

This  fireplace  is  adapted  for  use  as  a  camp- 
fire  for  light,  and  especially  for  warmth  in  the 
cool  evening  hours.  In  the  eastern  part  of  the 
country,  where  such  a  large  percentage  (in 
some  instances  more  than  80  percent)  of  the 
campers  use  portable  stoves,  it  is  a  most  prac- 
tical feature  to  supplement  the  gasoline  stove. 

FIGURE    2 

Portable  Gasoline  Stove.  This  stove  is  fre- 
quently used  by  campers  and  picnickers  es- 
pecially where  there  is  a  scarcity  of  fuel  and 
lack  of  properly  designed  camp  stoves  and 
fireplaces  adapted  for  convenient  use.  It  has 
limited  cooking  surface,  provides  quick  heat 
for  cooking,  and  it  is  also  of  practical  value  in 
rainy  weather. 


FIGURE    3 

Fireplace  Cut  in  Rock  Ledge.  This  type  of 
fireplace  is  very  attractive,  but  often  destruc- 
tive of  the  natural  beauty  of  the  rock  out-crop. 
Such  a  fireplace  is  often  expensive  to  construct. 
It  cannot  be  conveniently  used  from  the  sides, 
and  therefore  must  be  of  minimum  length 
(15  to  18  inches).  A  grate  of  desired  length 
similar  to  the  grate  shown  in  figure  4  may  be 
used.  The  grate  on  such  a  fireplace  must  be 
movable,  and  attached  to  the  ledge  writh  a 
chain.  In  ledge  rock  which  will  not  withstand 
extremely  high  temperatures,  it  is  desirable  to 
construct  a  fire-clay  brick  lining  in  order  to 
protect  the  stone  in  the  natural  ledge. 

FIGURE    4 

Artificial  Ledge  Effect. — The  proposed  grate 
may  be  either  a  standard  grate  such  as  shown 
in  figure  6B,  or  a  movable  grate  chained  to 
the  rock.  In  localities  where  a  suitable  type  of 
ledge  rock  is  available,  the  construction  of  this 
type  of  fireplace  may  not  involve  an  abnormal 
expense,  and  may  be  a  most  interesting  feature. 

FIGURE    5 

Open  End  Single  Stone  Type.  This  is  the 
simplest  form  of  open  fireplace,  and  is  to  be 
strongly  discouraged  where  fire  hazard  is 
present.  If  the  stones  are  carefully  selected, 
this  fireplace  is  desirable  for  use  on  open 
picnic  areas. 

FIGURE  6 

Standard  Grates.  This  figure  shows  three 
kinds  of  standard  grates  often  used  for  picnic 
purposes.  Each  is  simple  in  design,  and  not 
unduly  conspicuous. 

Type  "C"  is  a  simple  grate  with  sheet  iron 
sides.  Type  "B"  is  the  same  kind  of  a  grate  with 
large  rocks  at  each  side.  The  grate  in  each  of 
these  fireplaces  is  supported  by  four  legs,  each 
of  which  may  be  solidly  anchored  as  shown  on 
plate   III,   figures  4   and  5.  Type    "B"   is  the 


22 


PLATE    I 


23 


more  appropriate  type.  The  grate  marked  "A" 
is  not  desirable  except  on  intensively  used 
picnic  areas  where  the  occupancy  varies 
from  that  of  maximum  use  to  that  of  little  use  on 
successive  days  or  week-ends.  There  is  to  date 
little  reason  for  using  such  a  portable  unit  in 
the  forest  recreation  areas.  In  practical  use 
the  fire  is  started,  and  the  grate  is  placed 
over  it. 

Simple    fireplaces    of    the    types    similar    to 


figures  5  and  6B  should  be  adopted  generally 
for  use  in  designated  locations  on  the  "Primi- 
tive areas",  where  some  crude  fireplace  facili- 
ties must  be  provided;  but  limited  to  only  such 
as  are  absolutely  necessary  for  fire  protection. 
There  are  certain  strategic  places  even  in  these 
areas  where  hikers  and  canoeists  must  camp, 
and  without  some  such  facilities  for  simple 
cooking  these  practically  unprotected  areas 
would  be  in  danger  of  fire. 


24 


OPEN    END   MASONRY   FIREPLACE 


ADAPTATION   TO   LOCATION  AND   USE 

The  open  ends  may  provide  a  better  draft  in 
locations  where  the  prevaiUng  winds  are  in 
opposite  directions  in  the  morning  and  in  the 
evening,  and  may  further  vary  during  the  day. 
This  type  is  ordinarily  used  with  a  grate.  A 
solid  plate,  attached  to  the  stonework  by  a 
chain  could,  when  not  used  as  a  cooking  top, 
be  set  up  against  one  end  of  the  fireplace  to 
control  the  draft.  It  is  excellently  adapted  for 
use  on  large  open  picnic  areas  because  it  is 
low  and  not  conspicuous.  The  disadvantage  of 
this  type  is  that  a  strong  current  of  air  will  scat- 
ter the  sparks  and  create  a  definite  fire  hazard. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

The  stonework  on  the  sides  should  be  informal 
and  rustic  so  far  as  the  available  material  wall 
allow,  and  should  conceal  the  fire-clay  brick 
lining  and  soften  the  general  appearance. 

A  "floating  pad  foundation",  reinforced  as 
shown  in  the  dravnngs,  consisting  of  a  concrete 
slab,  the  top  of  which  is  placed  slightly  below 
ground  level,  is  reguired.  This  type  of  founda- 
tion will  heave  and  settle  under  frost  action 
without  damaging  the  stone  masonry  super- 
structure. It  is  not  essential  in  this  type  of  fire- 
place to  carry  the  foundation  walls  below  the 
frost  line. 

The  hearth  of  the  firebox  is  slightly  (1  to  2 
inches)  above  the  ground  level  and  may  be 
constructed  of  porous  soil,  mineral  earth,  or 
fire-clay  brick.  The  hearth  should  be  raised 
in  the  middle  and  pitched  towards  either  end 
in  order  to  provide  proper  drainage. 

The  open-ended  firebox  (approximating  10 
inches  in  height)  will  accommodate  longer 
lengths  of  wood  than  the  three  sided  type  (pi. 
III).  This  firebox  should  be  Uned  with  fire-clay 
brick  and  in  the  absence  of  any  connecting  end 


to  bond  the  sides  together,  provision  should  be 
made  to  bond  the  fire-clay  brick  into  the  stone 
masonry  walls  by  the  use  of  headers  as  shown 
in  figure  3  of  this  plate.  The  four  courses  of 
fire-clay  brick  laid  on  their  natural  bed  vnll 
slightly  exceed  10  inches  in  height,  while  two 
courses  laid  edgewise  will  slightly  exceed  9 
inches  in  height. 

A  type  of  stone  should  be  selected  which  will 
resist  heat.  The  width  of  the  stone  sides  should 
be  kept  to  minimum  dimensions,  approximating 
from  6  to  10  inches.  Any  standard  type  of 
grate  may  be  used.  The  grate  showm  is  hinged 
on  "\-inch  "I"  bolts  set  into  the  joints,  as 
shown  on  plate  XXII,  figure  1. 

Some  park  authorities  have  experimented 
with  the  open-end  fireplace  constructed  with 
concrete  sides,  and  with  the  bars  embedded 
solidly  in  the  concrete  walls.  In  every  instance, 
the  expansion  of  the  iron  has  caused  the  con- 
crete to  break. 

VARIATIONS    IN    DESIGN 

A  movable  grate,  securely  attached  to  the 
stonework  (pi.  VII)  may  be  substituted  for  the 
hinged  grate  shown  in  this  drawing. 

The  stonework  in  the  side  walls  may  be  kept 
at  the  elevation  of  the  top  of  the  fire-clay 
brick,  if  a  movable  plate  or  grate  is  used,  in 
order  to  regulate  heating  of  dishes  and  utensils 
by  placing  them  partly  on  the  grate  or  plate 
and  partly  on  the  side  walls.  This  method  of 
construction  would  weaken  the  bond  between 
the  fire-clay  brick  and  the  stonework. 

The  brick  hearth  may  be  omitted  and  a  fill 
of  sand  or  of  mineral  earth  may  be  used  in 
its  place.  If  such  construction  is  adopted,  then 
the  foundation  under  each  side  wall  should  be 
carried  below  the  frost  line  (in  lieu  of  a  rein- 
forced concrete  pad). 


26 


OPElN   end  MA50NRy  TYPE 


it    ^-^l 


20.xZ6"(iRILL 
(   2"ME5M   1/4"  *  I 


GROUND   LINE 


— .  ."-yr: 


.    •    <r^7^  CONCCETe  -- Y       .    ^ 


EYE.  BOLT  HINGE. 


=  l/2"nOD3 
6"O.C.  BOTH 
DIRECTON5 
OR  WIRE  MESH 


EL£VATI0N 
Fig  2 


Section  "C-c 

Fig    5 


r    I/it  BATTER 

Tf 


;,fir£  bricks  n^^;- 


'-'/Z   CODS 

eoC   BOTH 

^REENFORCED     CONCRETE     51AB        I     DIRECTIONS 


y . 


5ECTION  "D-D" 
Fig.  5 


1/z  PiAN  "A"  I  Vi  Plan 

Fig.  4 


-O'  Z-0"  3-0" 


SCALE 


PLATE    II 


27 


ROCK    SLAB    FIREPLACE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND   USE 

This  fireplace  of  simple  design  and  construc- 
tion is  not  massive.  It  is  low  and  inconspicuous 
and  well  adapted  for  picnic  use,  especially  in 
areas  where  the  fire  hazard  is  small.  The  open 
end  should  be  toward  the  prevailing  wind. 
This  type  without  removable  plate  is  not  well 
adapted  for  use  on  camp  grounds.  (See  pi. 
Ill  A.) 

Since  the  construction  of  this  fireplace  is 
dependent  upon  the  availability  of  the  desired 
kind  of  large  stones,  laid  without  mortar,  its 
adaptation  to  certain  sites  is  limited. 

Some  question  has  been  raised  concerning 
the  problem  of  maintenance  in  this  fireplace, 
where  the  intense  heat  comes  in  direct  contact 
with  the  stone,  and  especially  where  it  is 
necessary  to  douse  the  fire.  If  the  proper  kind 
of  heat-resisting  stone  is  available  (as  de- 
scribed under  "Stone"),  the  maintenance  ex- 
pense should  be  no  greater  than  in  any  other 
fireplace .  Sometimes  a  sheet  iron  plate  is  used  on 
either  side  of  the  standard  grate  in  order  to  pro- 
tect the  stone  against  the  heat  (pi.  III-A,  fig.  2). 

DESIGN  AND   CONSTRUCTION 

The  grate  is  entirely  separate  from  the  rock. 
These   rocks   should   be   somewhat   irregular. 


with  the  exception  that  the  ends  should  be 
roughly  dressed,  as  should  the  top  (to  provide 
a  shelf  on  which  to  set  pots  and  pans).  The 
rock  used  in  this  fireplace  must  be  of  the  heat- 
resisting  kind.  The  stones  on  either  side  are 
sunk  about  one-half  of  their  height  into  the 
ground  and  the  tops  of  the  stones  are  level 
with  the  top  of  the  grate.  The  ends  of  the 
stone  should  be  set  as  close  together  as  possible 
in  order  to  prevent  a  cross  draft  in  the  firebox. 
They  can  easily  be  replaced  if  damaged  by 
heat  and  water. 

The  grate  is  anchored  by  being  attached  to  a 
concrete  block  as  shown  on  figure  4,  or  by  being 
attached  to  a  "log  dead-man"  (fig.  6).  The 
hearth  is  usually  made  of  sand  or  mineral  earth 
and  is  level  with  surrounding  ground. 

The  length  and  width  of  the  firebox  is  depend- 
ent upon  the  size  of  the  standard  grate  which  is 
adopted.  The  height  of  the  firebox  should  be 
normal,  that  is  9  to  12  inches. 

VARIATIONS    IN    DESIGN 

Variations  in  design  are  shown  in  figure  2  on 
plate  III,  and  also  in  plate  III  A.  Sometimes 
the  stone  at  the  end  may  project  slightly  above 
the  top  of  the  grate  to  form  a  raised  back 
which  has  a  tendency  to  improve  the  draft. 


28 


Pig.  2 
PER5PBmVE3 


ROCK  5LAB    PIRLPUXCt 


5TAt-lDARD 
&CATE  ^^ 


ELfVATION 
Fig  3 


CONCRETE  E)A5E- 


-fDUNDATlON 


Section 

Pig  4- 

r-GBOUND  LINE 


GBATE      LEG 


FIGS 

STANDARD    GBATE 
ANCMOaED  TO  A 
LOG     DEAD -MAN 


Plan 

Pig.  5 


12  S'  O 


5CALt 


PLATE    III 


29 


STANDARD  GRATE 
FIREPLACE  VARIATIONS 


ADAPTATION    TO    LOCATION    AND    USE 

This  type  of  iireplace  may  be  developed  in  a 
number  of  ways  as  shown  upon  the  accompany- 
ing plate.  Its  simplicity  of  design,  permanence 
of  grate,  cheapness  and  ease  of  construction 
are  important  factors  which  increase  its  pop- 
ularity. It  is  constructed  in  one  form  or  another 
for  use  on  picnic  areas  and  on  campgrounds, 
from  California  to  Maine  and  from  northern 
Washington  to  Florida.  It  is  a  comparatively 
inconspicuous  unit,  and  for  use  in  its  simpler 
forms  (as  shown  in  pi.  Ill,  fig.  1;  and  pi.  Ill  A, 
figs.  1,  2,  and  3)  in  primitive  areas  and  in  high 
mountain  country  near  timber  line,  it  has  no 
equal.  As  explained  under  plate  III  this  unit 
is  not  recommended  for  use  in  areas  of  high 
fire  hazard. 

The  type  shown  in  figure  6  is  also  not  recom- 
mended for  use  in  areas  where  there  is  any 
tendency  toward  vandalism  or  any  rough 
usage  which  might  knock  down  the  dry  stone- 
enclosing  wall.  The  types  shown  in  figures  7 
and  8  are  excellently  adapted  for  areas 
which  are  used  at  frequent  intervals  by  rather 
large  groups  who  frequently  have  "fish  fries." 
These  multiple  units  provide  necessary  in- 
crease in  cooking  surface  and  have  proven 
to  be  very  popular  in  actual  use  on  a  number 
of  recreation  areas.  In  multiple  units  such  as 
shown  in  figure  8  the  width  of  the  top  of  the 
enclosing  wall  on  either  side  of  the  large  fire- 
place, may  be  narrow  (approximating  6 
inches)  because  of  the  reduced  requirements 


for  any  "warming  shelf",  and  because  stones 
of  the  width  normally  used  on  either  side  of 
the  single  unit  fireplace  might  cause  incon- 
venience in  the  actual  use  of  the  fireplace. 

Wherever  the  single  units  are  used  for  camp- 
ground cooking,  it  is  generally  desirable  that 
a  removable  plate  be  used  to  cover  a  portion 
of  the  top  of  the  grate  as  shown  in  figures  1 
and  5. 

DESIGN   AND   CONSTRUCTION 

In  addition  to  the  comments  with  reference  to 
the  design  and  construction  of  this  type  of 
fireplace  included  under  plates  II  and  III, 
this  further  information  may  be  of  value. 

This  fireplace  is  sometimes  designed  as 
shown  in  figures  4  and  6  with  the  long  side 
open  to  the  front.  When  the  fireplace  is  thus 
designed  it  is  desirable  that  the  top  of  the  sur- 
rounding wall  be  slightly  above  the  top  of  the 
grate  and  yet  not  exceeding  18  inches  in  the 
height  inasmuch  as  a  wall  of  greater  height 
would  not  be  convenient  for  use  as  a  seat  on 
which  to  sit  while  cooking  food  on  the  grate. 

The  efficiency  of  this  fireplace  is  greatly 
increased  by  the  use  of  the  removable  top  plate. 

Whenever  a  fire-clay  brick  lining  is  used  in 
the  firebox  it  is  very  desirable  that  the  stone 
masonry  construction  protect  and  cover  the 
ends  of  the  fireplace  lining  as  shown  on  the 
right-hand  side  of  the  fireplace  in  figure  5. 
The  method  of  anchoring  the  standard  grate  is 
shown  in  plate  III. 


30 


.DARE  GRATE.  A5  ON  PLATE  HI 


FIG 


■STONE   WORK 
THU,5  EXP03tD,T0 
BE  COMSTR.UCTED 
OF  FIRE-RESISTANT 


STANDARD  GRATE  f 


LOOSE  ROCKS 


Fig.  5 


lO  GA.  5  I   WELDED 
TO    5IDE3  6-END 
OF    FCAME  OF  GRATE 


STANDARD  GRATEA&  ON  PLATE  ' 


FIG.  5 


S  SIDE  SHOWS 
STONE  SHOULDERS 
CONCEALING  FIRE 
BRICK    ENDS 


.4^, 


■i-  lO  GA    IG  X28" 
5  I    PLATES 
REMOVABLE 


5TONE 

Fig. 7  FAC1U&  -- 


lO  u,A    SI    WELDED 
TO   SIDES  &-  END 
OF    FR.AME   OF  GRATE 


FlG-2 


REPIACE  VARIATIONS 


Fig4 


SIDES   AND   BACK    C 

e"  THICK  CURB  STONES 

SET  INTO   GROUND  12 

TO    16"  AND  WITH   A   CLEARANCE  I 

OF   &•  TO  ID"  AROUND  GRATE 


28"  5  I  PU\TE 


DRY  STONE    WALL 
SET  WITH  6'TO  lO  - 
F  I  G     &  CLEARANCE  AROUND  GRATE> 


Z-IO  GA.30"X30'PLOTE5,REMOVABLE- 


u-    "^^ 


BATTERY    OF 

5 -STANDARD   GRATES 

AS  ON    PLATE    m 


PLATE    III     A 


31 


INFORMAL     FIREPLACE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

This  informal  fireplace  is  well  adapted  to  the 
natural  forest  surroundings,  especially  if  the 
stone  used  in  its  construction  is  carefully 
selected.  In  considering  this  fireplace  for  any 
specific  area,  the  designer  should  determine 
in  advance  that  stones  of  the  character  and 
size  indicated  in  the  drawings  are  available 
at  a  reasonable  cost. 

This  type  ought  not  to  be  used  where  the 
hre  hazard  is  great.  It  is  primarily  adapted 
for  picnic  areas,  rather  than  for  campgrounds, 
although  with  a  removable  soUd  plate  the 
variation  shown  in  figure  2  could  to  excellent 
advantage  be  used  on  campgrounds. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

It  has  the  appearance  of  dry  stone  masonry, 
although  it  is  of  solid  masonry  construction. 
The  joints  should  be  very  narrow  and  raked 
deeply.  The  stonework  in  every  way  should 
present  a  natural  appearance.  It  is  important 
that  the  side  walls  be  kept  as  low  as  practicable 
in  order  that  the  cooking  surface  be  easily  and 
conveniently  accessible. 


Figure  1  shows  flat  projecting  rocks  at  the 
end  and  sides  on  which  to  set  cooking  utensils. 

The  foundation  should  consist  of  a  "floating 
concrete  pad",  properly  reenforced  as  shown. 
In  some  instances,  especially  where  the  hearth 
is  of  sand  or  mineral  soil,  the  foundation  under 
each  side  should  be  carried  below  frost  (fig.  6). 

The  width  and  length  of  the  firebox  may  be 
varied,  depending  upon  the  available  supply  of 
fuel.  The  grate  consists  of  'i-inch  iron  bars 
or  pipe  set  in  I-inch  sleeves  at  either  end  in 
order  to  avoid  damage  from  expansion  (pi. 
XXI,  fig.  5). 

VARIATIONS   IN    DESIGN 

Figures  2  and  6  show  the  variations  in  design. 
A  movable  plate  or  grate  may  be  substituted 
for  the  built-in  bars,  and  this  plate  or  grate 
should  be  attached  securely  with  a  chain. 
(See  pi.  XXI,  figs.  I,  6,  and  7.)  If  the  stone 
masonry  side  walls  are  carried  only  to  the 
height  of  the  fire-clay  brick  lining  it  is  necessary 
to  take  special  precautions  in  constructing 
the  top  of  joint  between  the  fire-clay  brick  and 
stonework. 


32 


Fig  Z    '^^. 


PERSPECTIVES 
riG  1 


NrORiMAL  riRTPUXCL 


5-a"BAPL5,2>t'O.C 
ET  IU7D  rPIPE.SLEE\'tS 
E   Plate  zn  Fi&   5  -&) 


Elevation 

FiG  5 


Section  C-C 


Fig  4 


^ZPlAN"AiKzP^XN"B' 

Fig    5 


VARIATION  ^5ECT 
Fig  6 

la"     s"     o  I'-o"         2-0-        yo" 


6CALE_ 


PLATE    IV 


33 


WESTERN   PICNIC   FIREPLACE 


J.HE  fundamental  design  for  this  informal 
fireplace  has  been  developed  by  the  National 
Park  Service  and  modified  in  minor  detail  for 
use  in  this  volume.  This  fireplace  is  not  a 
conspicuous  unit,  and  is  most  appropriate  to 
the  natural  forest  surroundings  where  the  fire 
hazard  is  not  abnormally  high. 

The  sides  are  splayed,  as  shown  in  the  draw- 
ing, and  the  top  of  the  firebox  is  covered  with 
a  sohd  plate.  For  picnic  use  only,  the  top  might 
be  covered  with  a  removable  grate,  instead  of 
a  fixed  plate.  It  is  the  author's  observation  that 
most  recreationists  prefer  a  solid  plate,  even 
for  picnic  use. 

The  small  opening  between  the  back  of  the 
plate  and  the  fire-clay  brick  lining  provides  an 
opening  which  serves  as  a  flue,  especially  with 
the  back  of  the  fireplace  tilted  slightly  forward. 
(See  fig.  3.)  The  firebox  is  lined  with  fire-clay 
brick  on  the  sides  and  bottom.  That  portion  of 
the  bottom  of  the  firebox  extending  in  front  of 
the  top  plate  and  on  which  little  or  no  fire  will 
exist,  may  be  paved  with  stone. 


DESIGN   AND   CONSTRUCTION 

This  fireplace  may  be  constructed  vfiih  a 
slightly  raised  hearth,  as  shown  in  hgure  3,  or 
the  hearth  may  be  practically  level  with  the 
surface  of  the  surrounding  ground. 

The  firebox  is  larger  than  the  average  size. 
The  hearth  is  raised  above  the  surrounding 
ground  level,  and  slopes  towards  the  front. 

The  solid  plate  is  securely  attached,  as  shown 
in  figure  5,  and  the  height  of  the  firebox  is 
approximately  9  inches. 

VARIATIONS  IN  DESIGN 

If  this  unit  were  used  as  a  fireplace,  it  would 
seem  practical  to  have  a  movable  plate  or  a 
hinged  plate,  in  which  case  the  plate  could  be 
removed,  or  raised  and  leaned  against  the 
back  of  the  fireplace  in  order  to  create  a 
warming  fire.  In  order  to  create  a  better  draft 
a  procedure  is  sometimes  adopted  whereby  the 
back  edge  of  the  cast-iron  top  is  turned  up  at  an 
angle  as  shown  in  plate  IX,  although  not  quite 
as  pronounced  as  in  plate  IX. 


34 


WESTERN     PICNIC    FIREPLACE 


(^3.'S,'0  I  TOP    ANCnOCEO" 


mr^ZTz:^ 


Q_.CVATION 


onCTION     A-A 
riG  3 

1-3/8"  C  I  PIATE.  ^3^6"  "^  ANCHORS 


WIRE  *\E5H 

G  OC 
-BOTH 


FOUNDATION 


Plan 

FIG  4 


Section   B-5 

O  5'  ip' 

Fig     5 

12"     6"     O l-O'  Z-O'  3-0"         4'-0' 

5CAL^ 


PLATE   V 


FROM   NATrONJL  "ARK  SERVICE  DESIGN 


35 


INFORMAL    RAISED     HEARTH     TYPE 


ADAPTATION    TO    LOCATION   AND    USE 

The  adaptation  to  location  is  similar  to  fire- 
place in  plate  IV.  This  fireplace  should  be  con- 
structed of  informal  stonework  in  order  to  avoid 
any  formal  effect  contrasting  unnecessarily 
with  the  natural  conditions.  In  fact  it  is  advis- 
able in  this  type  with  the  raised  hearth  to  do  a 
small  amount  of  grading  at  the  back  and  sides 
in  order  to  lessen  the  height  of  this  structure. 

The  raised  hearth  makes  it  possible  to 
develop  a  higher  elevation  for  the  cooking 
surface  on  the  top  of  the  grate  or  plate.  This 
added  height  for  the  cooking  surfaces  makes 
the  unit  more  convenient,  and  of  value  for 
camp  sites  as  well  as  picnic  areas. 

The  hinged  grate  and  the  raised  back  offer 
the  opportunity  to  convert  this  fireplace  into  a 
campfire  or  warming  fireplace,  which  also 
increases  its  desirability. 

DESIGN  AND   CONSTRUCTION 

This  type  of  fireplace  has  the  stone  masonry 
sides,  except  the  shoulders,  level  with  the  top 
of  the  fire-clay  brick  and  it  also  has  a  raised 
back  against  which  the  hinged  grate  may  rest. 
Note  the  suggestion  for  a  projecting  stone  plat- 
form on  which  to  set  cooking  utensils. 

The  foundation  should  be  a  reenforced 
floating  pad  as  shown  on  figure  3. 

The  raised  hearth  is  constructed  of  fire-clay 


brick  laid  on  masonry  fill  on  the  top  of  the  con- 
crete pad  and  the  appearance  of  this  fireplace 
is  improved  by  the  construction  of  a  narrow 
hearthstone  (fig.  1)  across  the  front. 

The  firebox  is  hned  with  fire-clay  brick.  The 
single  rod  across  the  front  part  of  the  farebox  is 
used  for  supporting  fuel  in  order  to  increase  the 
draft  when  the  fire  is  being  started.  The  use  of 
this  bar  is  somewhat  questionable  because  an 
accumulation  of  ashes  would  soon  offset  any 
advantage  gained  by  the  effort  to  provide  this 
air  space,  and  furthermore,  the  bar  so  buried 
in  live  coals  will  eventually  "burn  out." 

The  stonework  is  so  constructed  that  it  pro- 
tects the  fire-clay  brick  and  conceals  this  lining 
to  some  extent  as  seen  from  the  front. 

The  grate  is  hinged  on  a  bar  which  is  sunk 
into  "sleeves"  inserted  in  the  stonework  (pi. 
XXI,  fig.  5,  plan  B). 

The  hinge  rod  (pi.  XXI,  figs.  2  and  3)  provides 
a  method  for  securely  fasteiung  the  grate  or 
plate  to  the  fireplace  in  a  simple  and  solid 
manner.  This  provision  also  makes  it  easier  to 
remove  the  ashes  from  the  firebox.  The  grate, 
as  hinged,  may  be  raised  and  supported 
against  the  back  of  the  fireplace  in  order  to 
create  the  effect  of  an  open  fire. 

VARIATIONS    IN    DESIGN 

For  variations  in  design,  refer  to  plate  VII. 


36 


WTW^^ 


"  ^  !  :^iMr^-^        PEUSPECTIVEi 


NPORMAL  RAI5LD  MEARIM  lYPt 


"EAR.. LET  INTO  |J4  PIPE- 


&LLVATION 
Fig  2 


5ECTION  "C-C 
Fig    3 


5lD^  ELEVATION 

FiQ  5 


)/ZPlAN"A"    I/ZPU\N"B" 

FIG   4 


12"      6"      O r-O'  Z-O'  3-0" 


PLATE   VI 


37 


INFORMAL    RAISED    HEARTH    TYPE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

This  type  has  the  same  problems  concerning 
adaptations  to  location  and  to  use  as  relate  to 

the  fireplace  shown  in  plate  VI. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

The  slabs  of  stone  on  which  to  set  cooking 
utensils,  and  related  to  the  fireplace  as  indi- 
cated in  the  sketch,  have  a  tendency  to  more 
directly  "tie"  this  feature  to  the  ground.  The 
single  capstone  across  the  back  of  the  fireplace 
extends  over  and  is  set  flush  with  the  face  of  the 
fire-clay  brick  lining  in  order  to  improve  the 
design  and  the  construction.  The  front  corners 
of  the  fireplace  are  returned  in  such  a  manner 
that  they  partially  conceal  the  fire-clay  brick 
Uning. 

The  hearth  if  raised  to  a  height  approxi- 
mately 12  inches  above  the  ground  level,  would 
bring  the  cooking  surface  at  the  top  of  the 
grate  or  plate  to  a  height  of  22  inches,  which 
wovild  make  the  unit  more  convenient  for  camp 
use,  and  more  massive. 

This  entire  structure  (excepting  the  single 
slabs  of  rock  at  either  side)  should  rest  upon  a 
reenforced  concrete  floating  pad  foundation. 
The  flanking  rocks  are  buried  slightly  in  the 
ground. 

The  hearth  should  be  constructed  of  fire-clay 
brick  laid  on  a  masonry  fill  on  top  of  the  con- 


crete foundation.  There  may  or  may  not  be  a 
projecting  stone  hearth  at  the  front  of  the  fire- 
place. 

The  fire-clay  brick  is  anchored  by  the  cap 
stone  across  the  back  and  is  carried  only  to 
the  level  of  the  stone  masonry  wall  on  the  sides. 
In  this  method  of  construction,  the  joint  between 
the  fire-clay  brick  and  the  stonework  should  be 
very  carefully  constructed  in  order  to  avoid  the 
possibility  of  water  entering  between  the  fire- 
clay brick  and  the  stonework,  thus  causing 
damage  during  the  winter  months. 

The  success  of  this  fireplace  depends  upon 
the  use  of  large  units  of  stone  of  a  uniform  char- 
acter, and  upon  a  careful  treatment  of  the 
joints  in  order  to  conceal  them  as  much  as 
possible.  The  flanking  rocks  which  are  not  set 
upon  any  foundation  should  be  entirely  free 
from  the  fireplace  structure,  so  that  in  heaving 
and  settling  under  frost  action  no  damage  will 
be  done  to  the  stone  masonry. 

VARIATION  IN  DESIGN 

A  variation  (figs.  2  and  6)  indicates  the  hearth 
lowered  to  the  ground  level  with  the  fire-clay 
brick  in  the  hearth  omitted,  and  sand  or  min- 
eral earth  substituted  in  its  place.  In  this  varia- 
tion in  design  the  foundations  under  the  side 
and  rear  walls  should  be  carried  below  the 
frost  line. 


38 


Fig    1 


PERSPECTIVES 


N  FORMAL  PAI5LD  HEARJM  lYPE 


£1 


3/S'EYEEOLT 
PIQ  S 


LyiVATION 

FlG-   5 


5 ACTION  "C-C 
riG   4 


CHAIN CU  PLATE. 


o|     l/.j'"'."^"-     H  [AA^^ffCONCKETE 


1/2  PiAN  "A"  I  1/2  PiAN 
Fig  5 


VARIATION    5ECT. 
riG.  6 


12'       G'        O  l-O"  2.-0  3-0' 


Scale, 


PLATE    VII 


39 


CHIMNEY  NOTCH   TYPE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

Because  of  the  raised  back  and  the  chimney 
notch  effect  which  takes  the  place  of  a  chimney, 
when  a  soUd  plate  is  used  for  the  top,  it  is 
essential  that  this  fireplace,  so  far  as  is  prac- 
tical, be  oriented  to  take  advantage  of  the 
prevailing  wind. 

This  fireplace,  especially  with  the  solid  plate, 
is  adapted  for  use  on  campgrounds,  especially 
if  the  hearth  is  raised  to  make  the  top  of  the 
plate  approximately  14  to  16  inches  above  the 
ground. 

This  type  is  a  "cross"  between  an  open  fire- 
place with  a  solid  back  (pi.  VII)  and  the  low 
chimney  type  (pi.  X).  Its  distinct  advantage  is 
that  it  is  easily  converted  from  a  fairly  efficient 
cooking  hreplace  vnth  an  iron  plate  cooking 
surface,  into  an  open  reflecting  fireplace  for 
campfire  use  in  the  evening. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

Converting  this  unit  from  a  cooking  fireplace  to 
a  campfire  is  accomplished  by  tilting  the  top 
plate  against  the  notch  with  the  narrow  side 
resting  on  the  hearth  at  the  back  of  the  firebox, 
as  shown  in  figure  2. 

The  dimensions  of  the  firebox  and  of  the  top 
plate  are  so  related  that  the  plate  when  stood 
on  its  narrow  side  will  easily  fit  into  the  firebox 


as  shown  in  figure  2.  The  depth  of  the  firebox 
from  front  to  back  should  be  2  inches  less  than 
the  width.  In  order  to  have  the  plate  set  on  the 
top  of  the  fire-clay  brick  lining,  the  plate  should 
be  4  inches  longer  than  the  width  of  the  firebox, 
thus  allowing  a  2-inch  overlap  on  each  end  of 
the  plate.  In  this  instance,  the  width  of  the  fire- 
box is  16  inches  and  the  depth  of  the  firebox  is 
14  inches.  The  length  of  the  plate  is  20  inches 
and  the  width  of  the  plate  is  14  inches. 

This  structure  is  also  supported  on  a  reen- 
forced  concrete  floating  pad.  The  hearth  is 
constructed  of  fire-clay  brick,  and  the  firebox 
is  Uned  with  fire-clay  brick,  including  the 
chimney  notch.  The  stonework  partially  con- 
ceals the  fire-clay  brick,  as  shown  in  the 
drawing. 

The  grate  or  plate  should  be  removable,  with 
the  flange  on  the  front  edge  of  the  plate  turned 
down,  and  the  flange  on  the  rear  edge  turned 
up,  and  it  should  be  attached  by  a  chain  to  the 
stonework.  The  bent  flanges  will  tend  to  pre- 
vent sagging.   (See  pi.  XXII,  fig.  4.) 

VARIATIONS  IN  DESIGN 

The  only  variation  in  design  which  seems  of 
sufficient  importance  is  the  raising  of  the 
hearth  where  this  unit  is  used  primarily  for 
campgrounds. 


40 


Fig  2 


Perspectives 

Fig     1 


CMIMNEY  NOTCM  TVPt 


ElXVATlON 
Fig  3) 


vStCTION  "C-C"  - 

Fig  4 


FOUNDATION 


KZPlAN'A"    l/ZPU\N"B" 

Fig    5 


IZ        6         O  l-O"  2-0  3-0 


sSCALt 


PLATE    VIII 


41 


CONVERTIBLE   CAMP   STOVE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

This  camp  stove  is  an  unusual  type,  the  funda- 
mental idea  for  which  was  developed  by  region 
1  of  the  United  States  Forest  Service.  It  is  especi- 
ally well  adapted  for  use  in  the  forest  areas, 
where  camp  stove  cooking  facilities  are  re- 
quired. The  unit  is  low  and,  if  carefully  con- 
structed with  an  appropriate  type  of  stone  found 
in  the  immediate  locality,  this  stove  is  most  ac- 
ceptable. 

The  necessity  for  a  chimney,  which  adds  to 
the  massiveness  of  any  camp  stove,  is  avoided 
by  the  hinged  plate  shown  in  figure  4.  In  the 
areas  of  high  fire  hazard,  it  is  difficult  in  this 
stove  to  control  the  sparks,  which  in  the  type 
shown  on  plate  X  can  be  easily  controlled  by  a 
spark  arrester  in  the  low  chimney. 

This  stove  is  easily  converted  into  a  warming 
fire  by  raising  the  plate,  as  shown  in  figures  2 
and  4. 

Most  camp  stoves  are  too  massive  for  use  in 
open  and  semiopen  areas,  and  are  only 
adapted  for  practical  use  in  connection  with 
camp  units  where  natural  screen  planting 
between  the  units  exists.  The  necessity  for 
screen  planting  where  this  stove  is  used  is  not 
as  great  as  where  the  larger  and  more  imposing 
units  are  used.  This  type  of  camp  stove  seems 
to  have  excellent  possibilities  as  a  most  useful 
unit  easily  converted  from  picnic  use  to  camp 
use  or  vice  versa. 


DESIGN   AND   CONSTRUCTION 

The  plate  may  be  of  cast  iron  or  of  10-gage 
boilerplate,  bent  to  fit  the  design  of  the  stove 
as  shown  in  figures  1  and  4.  If  a  cast-iron  plate 
is  used,  the  front  part  of  the  plate  should  be 
counterbalanced  by  additional  weight  in  the 
curved  portion  of  the  plate  back  of  the  hinge  in 
order  that  the  sudden  dropping  of  the  plate  on 
the  top  of  the  brickwork  will  not  injure  the  plate. 
If  10-gage  boiler  plate  is  used  for  the  top  of  the 
fireplace,  it  is  not  necessary  that  any  counter- 
balance weight  be  used. 

The  hinge  on  which  the  plate  revolves  is 
located  as  shown  in  figure  4  and  is  anchored 
in  the  stone  masonry  as  shown  in  figure  6.  The 
increased  width  of  the  front  portion  of  the  plate 
(figs.  1  and  5)  allows  the  plate  when  raised 
to  rest  against  the  side  walls,  as  shown  in  fig- 
ure 2. 

The  hearth  should  slope  sUghtly  to  the  front, 
and  at  the  front  edge  it  may  be  level  with 
the  surrounding  ground.  If,  in  exceptional  in- 
stances, the  camper  desires  a  more  convenient 
height  for  the  top  of  the  plate,  the  hearth  may 
be  raised  approximately  6  inches  above  the 
ground  level. 

The  underside  of  the  plate  is  reenforced  with 
2-  by  2-inch  angle  irons,  which  are  welded  to 
the  plate  to  prevent  warping  and  possible 
sagging.  These  angles  are  pierced  to  allow  the 
hinge  rod  to  pass  through. 


42 


CONVERTIBLE    CAMP     STOVE 


ALTERfiATE.        !| 
HIMGE.     RDD^l 


FIG  3 


L^CArrv  foundation  walls 

ELEVATION  cr^..To^^^Eo"w.r5ECTION  "C-C 

Fig   4 

-c 


ALTEraMATL  I     Vl  Q 

HINGE.  ROD— K  J_  FLAiTE^i  s,. 

I        I       JBEND  END 


r^" 


^ 


I'PIPt  SLtEVE. 


\\V'    /i'/\/// 


t^ 


ENLAPGED  5b::T  "p-D"   ^IDE.ELLV 
KZPlAN"A'    l/ZPLAN"B"  f^'G  6 

El  G       5  IZ"     6*     O  I'-O*  £'-0'  j'-o"  4'-0 


PLATE    IX 


43 


STOVE-WARMING    COMBINATION 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

This  fireplace  approaches  the  camp  stove  type 
and  is  excellently  adapted  to  campground  use. 
These  larger  types  are  not  recommended  for 
the  open  and  extensive  picnic  areas  requiring 
a  number  of  cooking  units.  The  ideal  location 
for  such  fireplaces  is  one  where  the  ground 
level  may  be  raised  at  the  sides  and  the  back 
to  reduce  apparent  height. 

The  low  chimney  in  which  a  spark  arrester 
may  be  inserted,  if  necessary,  is  added  protec- 
tion against  any  fire  hazard,  especially  in  the 
timber  areas  of  the  West. 

The  use  of  this  unit  as  a  cooking  stove,  or  as 
a  warming  fire,  is  easily  accomplished  by  rais- 
ing the  hinged  plate  and  the  grill  as  shown  in 
figure  4. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

The  design  includes  provision  for  a  grill  or 
grate  and  or  a  solid  plate,  both  of  which  are 
hinged  on  bar  hinges  as  shown  in  plate  XXI, 
figure  4.  When  the  top  grate  and  plate  are 
thrown  back  against  the  chimney,  this  unit  is 
converted  into  a  warming  fireplace.  For  use  in 
cooking,  either  the  grill  or  the  plate  may  be 
used. 

Where  fuel  economy  is  an  important  factor, 
the  shelf  shown  in  figures  4  and  5  may  be 
lengthened  as  indicated  by  the  dotted  lines, 
thus  reducing  the  depth  of  the  firebox  proper 


while  retaining  the  same  area  of  cooking 
surface. 

The  stone  platforms  on  which  to  place  cook- 
ing utensils  may  be  constructed  as  shown  in 
the  sketch. 

The  foundation  for  this  type  of  fireplace 
should  be  carried  below  the  frost  line  and  the 
fire-clay  brick  hearth  should  be  supported  on 
a  reenforced  concrete  slab,  as  shown  on  this 
drawing.  The  firebox  is  lined  with  fire-clay 
brick  laid  as  stretchers.  The  top  plate  ought 
to  be  10-gage  sheet  iron.  It  is  not  necessary  to 
reenforce  this  plate  because  the  plate  will  rest 
directly  on  top  of  the  grate. 

The  stonework  must  be  laid  in  an  informal 
manner  with  carefully  selected  native  stove. 

The  low  chimney  is  lined  with  fire-clay  brick, 
laid  flatwise.  An  arch  constructed  of  fire-clay 
brick  extends  across  the  flue  opening.  The  top 
of  this  arched  opening  is  slightly  below  the  level 
of  the  plate. 

VARIATIONS   IN   DESIGN 

Where  steelwork  is  available  at  no  abnor- 
mal cost,  two  3-  by  3-inch  angles  with  '74-  by  9- 
inch  plate  riveted  to  the  under  side  may  replace 
the  arch  and  will  improve  the  appearance. 

The  raised  hearth  may  be  omitted  if  the  lower 
elevation  of  the  top  is  acceptable  and  the  height 
of  the  entire  mass  will  thus  be  reduced  approxi- 
mately 8  inches. 


44 


Pig   I 


5TOVE:-WARMING  COM5INATION 


A 


kl9  X  ZZ    PLATER      ~\ 
|[-I8  X  20   GBILL-m!         I 


GRADE.  AT  REAR. 


WIRE_ME3M 


Ai 


>ll 


T^T^ 


CEETE      FOOTING 


ElfVATION 


Fig  :3 


Section  "D-D" 

Fig   a 


Section  C 

Fig  6 


1/2  PlAN  'A"  I  l/Z  Plan  "B'         T  ^'i°      't°'    ^t^'    ";°" 

Fig    5  5CALE. 


PLATE    X 


45 


CONVERTIBLE    CAMP    STOVE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

This  type  is  primarily  a  camp  stove,  although 
it  may  be  used  as  a  campfire.  The  simpler 
units  (pis.  IV,  V,  and  VIII)  are  appropriate  for 
the  natural  forest  areas.  There  is,  however,  in 
many  campgrounds,  especially  in  the  larger 
timber,  a  definite  need  for  this  convertible 
unit  which  eliminates  undue  fire  hazard,  pro- 
vides for  cooking  and  for  warming  fire  use, 
and  increases  the  convenience  of  everyday 
use  in  a  camp. 

These  units  ought  to  be  so  located  that  a 
screen  of  natural  grovrth  will  separate  one 
from  the  other. 

This  camp  stove,  together  vrith  the  stove 
shown  in  plate  XI-A,  figure  4,  are  excellently 
adapted  to  campground  use. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

It  should  be  constructed  with  an  interesting 
texture  of  informal  stonework  and  should  tie 
naturally  to  the  surrounding  ground. 

In  addition  to  the  sand  or  gravel  area  which 
naturally  should  surround  any  campfire  or 
camp-stove  unit,  there  might  well  be  a  few 
flagstones  immediately  in  front  of  this  camp 
stove. 

The  foundation  walls  should  extend  below 
frost,  in  order  to  avoid  the  danger  of  uneven 
settlement  due  to  the  excess  of  weight  at  the 
chimney  end  of  the  camp  stove. 

The  chimney  is  lined  with  fire-clay  brick  and 
the  firebox  is  lined  to  the  height  of  the  side 
walls.  The  firebox  is  entirely  enclosed  by  the 
solid  top  plate  and  the  single  door  or  double 
doors  across  the  front. 


The  sohd  top  plate  extends  2  inches  over  the 
brickwork  on  either  side  and  it  is  hinged  at  the 
rear  of  the  firebox  as  shown  in  figure  2.  In 
order  to  convert  this  stove  into  a  campfire,  the 
doors  are  opened  and  the  top  is  thrown  back 
against  the  chimney.  A  certain  amount  of  heat 
will  continue  to  go  up  the  chimney  unless  a 
damper  is  installed  to  control  the  draft. 

The  danger  of  warping  is  decreased  by  the 
welding  of  two  1  by  1  inch  angles  across  the 
underside  of  the  top  plate  (pi.  XXII,  fig.  4). 

The  chimney  approximates  S'/?  feet  in  height 
above  ground  level.  It  may  be  Uned  with  lava 
rock,  or  it  may  have  a  terra-cotta  flue  Uning  in 
place  of  the  fire-clay  brick.  It  is  very  desirable 
that  a  spark  arrester  be  inserted  in  the  top  of 
the  chimney,  especially  if  the  fire  hazard  is 
very  great. 

VARIATIONS    IN    DESIGN 

It  is  entirely  practical  to  have  the  firebox  with 
the  sides  parallel  (pi.  XI  A,  fig.  4),  rather  than 
to  have  the  front  of  the  firebox  wider  than  the 
rear,  although  the  splayed  sides  reflect  more 
heat  when  used  as  a  warming  fire. 

If  the  front  doors  are  omitted,  then  it  will  be 
necessary  to  install  a  damper  in  the  chimney 
in  order  to  properly  control  the  draft. 

In  figure  4,  the  height  of  the  top  plate  above 
the  ground  is  approximately  16  inches.  This  top 
plate  may  be  lowered  approximately  4  inches 
by  omitting  the  raised  hearth  and  thus 
leaving  a  total  height  of  approximately  12 
inches  between  the  surface  of  the  ground  and 
the  top  of  the  plate,  with  chimney  lowered 
proportionately. 


46 


PER_5PECT1VE5 


Fig.  1 


CONVERTIBLE   CAMP    STOVE 


1/2  PLAN  "A     1/2  PLAN  "B" 

FIG.  5 


FIG.    6 

6-       O  l-O  2-0-  3-0- 

SCALt 


PLATE    XI 


47 


CAMP  STOVE  VARIATIONS 


Up 


'PON  this  plate  there  are  shown  a  few 
variations  of  camp-stove  designs  some  of  which 
are  excellent  for  certain  uses  and  some  of 
which  do  not  seem  to  be  practical  except 
under  conditions  which  impose  unusual  require- 
ments upon  the  camp-stove  design. 

The  details  for  design  of  these  stoves  are  not 
covered  in  a  special  drawing  because  those 
desirable  features  are  covered  directly  or 
in  modified  form  by  parts  of  drawings  on  other 
plates. 

Each  of  these  variations  in  type  is  discussed 
under  its  individual  heading. 

The  desirable  stoves  for  campground  use 
are  those  shown  in  plates  III-A,  VII,  VIII,  IX, 
X,  and  XI,  or  variations  of  some  of  these  types. 
Figures  3  and  4  in  plate  XI  A  especially  when 
providing  for  a  combination  top  grate  and  top 
plate  may  be  adapted  for  use  as  a  fireplace  or 
as  a  camp  stove. 

CAMP  STOVE  WITH  GRATE 
AND  SLIDING  TOP  PLATE 

The  usual  method  of  designing  combination 
op  grate  and  top  plate  is  as  shown  in  plate  X 
or  as  is  shown  in  plate  VII.  In  the  first  instance 
the  plate  is  hinged  over  the  grate  and  in  the 
second  instance  the  plate  is  removable. 

Figure  1  shows  a  suggested  method  of 
providing  a  shding  plate  which  may  be  pulled 
to  one  side  as  shown  in  the  drawing,  thus 
exposing  the  grate  for  broihng  and  grilhng. 

This  type  of  design  is  not  simple.  Such  stoves 
are  expensive  to  construct.  The  top  plate  if  too 
thick  decreases  the  heating  efficiency  to  a  very 
marked  extent.  This  stove  does  not  seem  to  have 
a  definite  place  for  campground  use  in  the  for- 
ests and  is  therefore  not  recommended. 

CAMP   STOVE   WITH   ASHPIT  AREA 
IN   FRONT   OF   FIREBOX 

This  type  of  stove  is  similar  in  design  to  the  stove 
shown  in  ligure  4  with  the  exception  that  the 


shallow  enclosed  pit  in  front  of  the  firebox  is 
added  to  this  unit  to  serve  a  dual  purpose  as 
follows: 

(a)  To  be  used  as  an  ashpit  in  areas  where  there  is 
abnormal  fire  hazard.  (There  seem  to  be  very  few 
areas  where  this  abnormal  precaution  is  necessary 
especially  if  a  hearth  of  flagstone  or  mineral  earth 
is  provided  immediately  in  front  of  the  firebox.) 

(b)  To  provide  a  space  into  which  to  pull  the  live  coals 
so  that  a  toaster  or  a  grill  may  be  placed  across  the 
top  on  which  to  broil  steak  and  other  meats. 

This  added  feature  constructed  as  shown  in 
figure  2  makes  an  abnormally  long  unit  of  a 
camp  stove.  This  ashpit  area  is  in  no  way  es- 
sential if  the  combination  grate  and  plate  is 
used  for  the  top. 

CAMP   STOVE    WITH    GRATE 
IN    BOTTOM   OF    FIREBOX 

In  some  areas  where  a  condition  of  excessive 
moisture  (rain  or  fog)  prevails  it  is  sometimes 
desirable  to  so  construct  the  camp  stove  that  a 
bottom  draft  may  be  procured  through  a  grate 
in  the  bottom  of  the  firebox.  Such  a  type  of  de- 
sign is  not  generally  recommended  except  where 
the  condition  of  the  wood  used  for  fuel  is  so 
affected  by  the  moisture  that  this  additional 
bottom  draft  is  necessary. 

CAMP    STOVE    WITH    SOLID    TOP    PLATE 

One  of  the  most  practical  camp  stoves  is  that 
shown  in  figure  4.  The  efficiency  of  this  stove 
might  be  much  increased  if  it  were  so  designed 
that  a  combination  grate  and  plate  properly 
hinged  as  shown  in  plate  X  were  used.  The 
soUd  plate  on  the  top  of  this  stove  does  not 
permit  any  use  for  broiling  over  a  grate  and 
neither  does  it  provide  opportunity  for  use  as 
a  hreplace  with  the  top  plate  raised  as  shown 
in  plate  XI,  figure  2.  It  is  also  desirable  in 
these  camp  stoves  to  provide  a  damper  pref- 
erably in  the  chimney  as  shown  in  plate  XI  A, 
figure  5. 


48 


3LID1NG  TOP  PLiTES 
FIXED  GR'.L 


C.I.  FRONT- 


FIG : 


f:^2 


CAMP     STOVE    VARIATIONS 


GaATE.  OVE-R. 


Fig 


PLR^PE-CTIVL  5K.ETCH 
OF  DUTCH  OVLM 


DUTCH     /HOT  ■■■^, 


m^' 


PLATE   XI-A 


49 


CAMP    STOVES    WITH    THE 
DOOR    ON    THE    SIDE 

In  some  campgrounds  it  seems  desirable  to 
adopt  a  type  of  camp  stove  such  as  is  shown 
in  plate  XI  A,  figure  5.  The  advantages 
claimed  for  this  stove  are  the  following: 

(a)  An  economy  of  fuel  because  the  firebox  is  very 
small  in  proportion  to  the  cooking  area  on  the  top 
of  the  stove.  The  heat  under  a  portion  of  the  top 
plate  is  produced  by  the  flames  which  travel  under 
this  plate  to  the  flue,  in  which  a  damper  is  con- 
structed. 

(b)  A  cooking  ledge  is  provided  on  the  front  of  the 
stove  to  be  used  for  warming  purposes. 

(c)  A  "windbreak  wall"  may  be  constructed  on  the 
windward  side  to  protect  the  top  from  any  abnormal 
currents  of  air  caused  by  prevailing  winds,  espe- 
cially in  the  higher  mountain  country  where  a  strong 
wind  generally  prevails,  especially  in  the  late  fall 
and  early  spring. 

This  stove,  if  well  constructed  and  kept 
sufficiently  low  by  eliminating  the  ashpit  under 
the  firebox,  is  an  appropriate  unit  in  the  forest 
surroundings.  It  is  undoubtedly  more  expen- 
sive to  construct  than  the  more  simple  type  of 
stove  shown  in  figure  4. 


DUTCH    OVENS 

The  dutch  oven  is  probably  one  of  the  simplest 
and  most  effective  method  of  cooking  certain 
foods. 

In  areas  of  considerable  fire  hazard  and 
especially  in  the  primitive  areas,  it  is  desirable 
to  construct  a  small  pit,  similar  to  a  campEre 
circle,  surrounded  by  a  row  of  stones  which  will 
confine  the  fire  within  a  specific  area. 

The  success  with  which  a  dutch  oven  may  be 
used  for  cooking  depends  very  largely  upon  the 
experience  and  abiUty  of  the  person  who  is 
using  the  oven.  The  general  method  of  using 
this  oven  is  that  of  building  a  fire  in  a  small 
campfire  circle  (hg.  6).  After  this  fire  has 
burned  sufficiently  long  to  produce  a  liberal 
bed  of  live  coals,  these  coals  are  so  arranged 
that  the  dutch  oven,  containing  the  meat  or 
other  food  to  be  cooked,  can  be  set  firmly  into 
the  bed  of  coals.  After  the  cover  has  been 
securely  fastened,  the  entire  dutch  oven  is  com- 
pletely covered  (fig.  6)  with  coals  and  left  thus 
buried  in  a  bed  of  coals  and  ashes  for  the 
length  of  time  necessary  to  properly  cook  the 
meat  or  other  food  to  be  placed  in  the  oven. 


50 


HIGH    CHIMNEY    STOVE 


ADAPTATION   TO   LOCATION  AND   USE 

The  high  chimney  stove  has  little  or  no  place 
in  the  notional  forest  areas,  because  of  its 
massiveness.  The  discussion  covering  camp 
stoves  would  not  be  complete  without  including 
this  type  of  stove  because,  in  a  few  locations 
where  the  fire  hazard  is  abnormally  high  and 
where  it  is  possible  to  provide  an  adequate 
screen  between  the  different  camp  units,  such 
a  stove  might  be  used.  Its  general  use  should 
be  discouraged. 

The  cost  of  constructing  such  a  unit  seems  to 
be  out  of  proportion  to  the  results  which  are 
obtained,  as  compared  with  the  results  that 
can  be  obtained  in  the  construction  of  the 
simpler  types  of  definite  camp  stoves  shown 
particularly  in  plates  IX,  X,  XI,  and  XI  A,  figure4. 

This  feature  more  nearly  approaches  the 
conveniences  of  the  stove  at  home  and,  for 
this  reason  alone,  it  deprives  one  of  some  of 
the  satisfactions  which  come  from  a  new  kind 
of  recreational  activity  in  the  natural  out-of- 
doors. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

This  unit  becomes  increasingly  objectionable 
unless  the  stone  used  in  its  construction  is  care- 


fully selected  and  equally  carefully  laid,  in 
order  to  avoid  some  of  the  objectionable 
textures  of  stonework  illustrated  in  plates 
XXIV  and  XXV. 

The  foundation  on  which  this  stove  rests 
should  be  carried  below  the  frost  line,  as  shown 
in  figure  4,  and  it  may  be  constructed  by  plac- 
ing rocks  in  the  concrete  to  lessen  the  amount 
of  concrete  required. 

The  stove  is  provided  with  a  definite  firebox 
and  an  ashpit,  separated  with  a  grate.  The 
draft  is  controlled  by  a  damper  in  the  chimney 
and  oftentimes  by  a  damper  in  the  door  at  the 
front  of  the  firebox.  The  doors  and  the  top 
plate  are  generally  made  of  cast  iron. 

As  shown  in  the  drawings,  the  firebox  and 
the  flue  should  be  carefully  lined  with  fire-clay 
brick  or  other  equally  acceptable  material. 

The  author  has  observed  some  of  these  stoves, 
in  which  the  space  between  the  back  of  the 
fire-clay  brick  lining  and  the  stone  masonry  is 
left  as  an  air  space  or  is  filled  with  asbestos. 
The  author  questions  the  necessity  for  this  pro- 
vision in  the  design  of  this  type  of  camp  stove. 
In  any  event,  the  top  of  this  space  should  be 
thoroughly  sealed  to  prevent  the  entrance  of 
water. 


52 


'/ZSECrCn/ZELEV. 

FIG.  5 


BtlDW  FP05T 


^V^-^^ 


Section  "D-D" 

Fig,  4 


[^ 


-rOUNDATION 


GROUND    LINE 


AUtOMATL  5E-CT  D-D 

D  riG  6 

Vz  PLAN  "A"  M/z  Plan  "b"  '^r  °    '°  "°"  ^°  ^^  ^' 

Fig  5  SCALE: 


PLATE    XII 


53 


MULTIPLE    UNIT    STOVE 


ADAPTATION  TO  LOCATION  AND  USE 

The  multiple  unit  is  a  massive  structure  which 
has,  with  rare  exceptions,  no  reason  for  exist- 
ence on  a  national  forest,  and  is  in  reality  a 
camp  stove  adapted  only  to  picnic  area  use. 
This  type  of  multiple  unit  is  of  greatest  value  in 
connection  with  areas  used  intensively  and  by 
large  organized  picnic  groups.  It  has  little 
value  on  areas  used  for  small  family  picnics, 
or  on  campgrounds. 

It  may  be  used  in  multiples  of  two,  three,  or 
four,  as  shown  in  figure  1.  The  most  practical 
design  is  in  multiples  of  two,  which  greatly 
reduces  the  congestion  around  the  cooking 
space. 

It  is  very  seldom  that  a  multiple  unit  of 
this  kind  would  be  used  by  campers,  except 
those  who  live  at  resorts,  in  connection  with 
which  there  are  small  cabins  constructed 
close  together. 

This  type  of  stove  in  multiple  units  is  excel- 
lently adapted  to  some  of  the  areas  where 
there  is  intensive  activity  in  winter  sports. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

The  foundation  under  these  structures  should 
extend  below  the  frost  line  and  the  hearth 
should  rest  on  a  masonry  fill.  The  hearth  and 
the  firebox  should  be  paved  with  fire-clay 
brick. 

The  efficient  design  of  these  units  requires  a 


minimum  length  for  the  firebox,  and  a  narrow 
entrance  to  the  flue,  creating  a  considerable 
additional  warming  area,  as  shown  in  figure 
3.  Under  this  type  of  design,  the  flames  and 
the  hot  gases  are  forced  through  the  narrow 
passage  over  the  shelf  which  is  directly  under 
the  cooking  top,  thus  making  the  entire  surface 
of  the  cooking  top  available  for  use. 

In  this  drawing,  a  10-gage  iron  top  is  indi- 
cated, reenforced  with  1  by  1  inch  angle  irons 
welded  to  the  undersurface  as  shown.  The  use 
of  a  thinner  gage  may  cause  buckling  and 
sagging,  and  to  date  the  information  concern- 
ing this  problem  is  not  sufficiently  adequate  to 
determine  the  result  which  would  occur  by 
using  any  thinner  material. 

The  high  chimney  may  have  a  terra  cotta 
flue  lining,  although  fire-clay  brick  will  serve 
equally  well.  Sometimes  the  single  flue  is  made 
sufficiently  large  to  meet  the  requirements  of 
the  multiple  units  which  it  serves  and  it  should 
then  be  divided  into  the  required  number  of 
smaller  flues  of  the  proper  size.  This  encour- 
ages a  more  efficient  operation  by  shutting 
out  the  cold  air  which  would  otherwise  be 
drawn  from  the  stoves  not  in  operation. 

VARIATIONS  IN  DESIGN 

Sometimes  an  ash  pit  may  be  constructed  under 
the  firebox,  as  indicated  in  figure  5  and  as 
shown  in  plate  XII,  figure  4. 


54 


MULTIPLE    UNIT    5TOVL 


r  I 


29    ±  SCJUARt 


lEM 


B    9 


n 


i^?^ 


1 


h- 


]3X!3"T,C.FLUE 


UNTEL  FRAME 


^ 


'tmsa 


I  I    CONCRETE    TOOT1N&5       ! 


.CqUCB^-ffr 


EJJVATION 

PIG    Z 


(-FOOTINGS     BELOW    FCOST-- 


SECTION  "C-C 
Fig  3 


TOP    KEENFORCIN& 
■;<ri5  WELDED 


,    /       J<,.iJY^PtAN| 


CI  FUEL  GRATE 


^y/A\\\\v/////^\\\'' 


nnr 


22:lt 


CONCEETE  ^-V  .    ^    I  ■  /  ^/^  ■  7    J    "^ 


VARIATION    SECT. 

[A5H  PIT  Added] 

Fig  5 


1/2  PLAN  "B-B" 
Fig  4- 


PLATE   XIII 


55 


PATENTED   STOVE   TYPE 


XHERE  are  a  number  of  types  of  patented 
stoves  adapted  for  use  on  camp  grounds  and 
picnic  areas.  These  stoves  are  apparently 
designed  primarily  for  cooking  purposes,  and 
the  author  has  seen  few  of  these  patented 
stoves  which,  either  before  or  after  being 
covered  with  a  stone  masonry  "shell",  seem 
appropriate  in  a  forest  setting.  They  are 
excellently  adapted  to  the  more  intensively 
used  camp  ground  and  picnic  areas,  near  the 
centers  of  considerable  population.  The  shape 
and  appearance  of  these  units  are  such  that 
they  do  not  seem  to  blend  happily  with  the 
natural  surroundings. 

DESIGN  AND  CONSTRUCTION 

Many  of  the  patented  stoves  do  not  have  a 
chimney.  They  are  designed  with  an  opening 
at  the  back  of  the  irebox.  The  draft  control, 
fire  box,  hearth,  top  grate  or  plate,  and  other 
mechanical  features  vary  with  each  type  of 
patented  stove,  and  the  stone  masonry  work 
should  conform  to  the  particular  type  of  con- 
struction. 


Unless  the  patented  stove  has  a  metal  back 
and  sides,  a  fire-clay  brick  lining  should  form 
a  part  of  the  enclosing  masonry  shell. 

It  is  customary  to  provide,  in  the  construction 
of  these  stoves,  a  ventilating  air-space  (see 
fig.  4),  between  the  metal  and  the  masonry. 
This  air-space  ought  to  be  thoroughly  sealed 
at  the  top. 

The  sketch  in  figure  2  shows  another  type  of 
stove  enclosed  in  a  stone  masonry  covering. 
The  use  of  this  type  of  stove  with  the  square 
metal  chimney  as  shown  in  the  sketch,  gives 
rise  to  considerable  difference  of  opinion  con- 
cerning the  appropriateness  of  this  kind  of  a 
chimney  to  the  forest  surroundings. 

There  may  be  a  few  instances  in  which 
it  is  more  desirable  to  use  an  inconspicuous, 
although  distinctly  artificial  chimney  of  this 
type  than  to  construct  a  massive  chimney  which 
is  equally  as  far  out  of  proportion  to  the  camp 
stove.  In  general,  the  use  of  this  type  of  stove, 
with  the  chimney  as  shown  in  the  sketch, 
ought  to  be  discouraged  in  spite  of  its  practical 
value. 


56 


PATENTLD   5TOVL  TYPL 


Em/ATION 

FIG   5 


WjC£   MEbH  - 
EEENFOKCINci 

oc  'It.  bars 

<i  ■  O  C    BOTH*- 
DIRECTIONS 


5LCTI0N 

FIG    4 


I \ i 


PLAN 
Pig    O 


NOTt  ;  NO  DIMENSIONS    ACE 

SHOWN    ON  TMO  DRAWING 
BECAuat  OF  THt  VARYING 
51ZE^    OF  PATENTED   3TOVE5 
WHICH   ARE.  ADAPTED  FOR 
CAMP   U5E- 

Fl&  Z   SHOWS  DIFFERENT    T-YPE. 
OF   PATENTED    5TOVE     WITH 
METAL    FLUE 


APPROXIMATE  5CALE 


PLATE    XIV 


57 


WARMING. COOKING  UNIT 


ADAPTATION    TO    LOCATION    AND    USE 

The  warming-cooking  unit  is  generally  not 
adapted  to  areas  where  the  fire  hazard  is  great. 

These  units  may  be  used,  (a)  in  connection 
with  shelters  (pi.  XIX,  figs.  1  and  5),  (b)  in  con- 
nection with  swimming  pools  on  campground 
areas,  and  (c)  on  campground  and  picnic 
areas.  The  two  most  logical  ways  in  which  to 
combine  the  campfire  and  the  fireplace,  or 
camp  stove,  are  shown  in  figures  4  and  5  on 
the  accompanying  plate. 

When  these  units  are  used  in  connection 
with  shelters,  it  is  the  usual  practice  to  face 
the  camp  fire  toward  the  shelter,  as  shown  on 
plate  XIX,  figure  6,  and  to  have  the  cooking 
unit  on  the  side  farthest  from  the  shelter.  In  this 
way  the  interior  of  the  shelter  receives  the  full 
benefit  from  the  campfire,  the  purpose  of  which 
may  be  to  warm  and  to  light  the  interior  of  the 
shelter. 

The  warming  fire  by  itself  is  another  feature 
which  is  considered  in  connection  with  the  dis- 
cussion of  plate  XX. 


These  units  are  adapted  only  to  areas  where 
there  is  an  adequate  supply  of  fuel  easily 
available. 

DESIGN    AND    CONSTRUCTION 

The  design  of  the  stonework  should  be  very 
informal  and  rustic.  The  foundation  under 
these  features  should  extend  below  frost.  It 
may  be  advisable  to  line  the  sides  of  the  warm- 
ing fire  area  with  fire-clay  brick  or  lava  rock 
in  order  to  protect  the  stone  masonry  from 
damage  by  the  intense  heat.  The  fire-clay 
brick  lining  should,  however,  be  avoided  if 
possible,  even  to  the  height  of  a  few  courses, 
because  it  is  unsightly  and  unnatural  in  a 
fireplace  of  this  type. 

The  top  of  the  grate  or  the  plate  may  be 
lowered  to  a  height  of  14  to  16  inches  above  the 
ground. 

VARIATIONS    IN    DESIGN 

The  variations  in  design  are  shown  in  figures 
4  and  5. 


58 


PERSPECTIVE 


WARMING  -  COOKING     UNIT 


L 

—  '- — 

^- 

B 

A 

-.--A 

T~^ 

— 

~1} 

"[ 

■v-^ 

— - 

'r~- 

Eltvation 

Fig.  2 


'''m---.^t. 


5ECTION  "C-C" 
FIG  5 


"V^FOC    DETAIL  OF    HINGE 
^Ef     PLATE  XSI      ElO   4 


5CALE: 


VARIATION  ^  Plan 

Fig   5 


l/ZPlAN'A"    I/2PlAN'B" 
Fig  4 


PLATE   XV 


59 


BARBECUE   PITS   AND   BARBECUE   OVENS 


GENERAL    CONSIDERATIONS 

While  barbecue  pits  and  barbecue  ovens  have 
been  in  use  during  a  considerable  period  of 
years,  the  specific  information  relating  par- 
ticularly to  the  design  and  construction  of 
these  features  is  rather  difficult  to  procure. 
The  three  types,  as  follow:  (a)  Barbecue  pit 
(pi.  XVI),  (b)  free  standing  barbecue  oven 
(pi.  XVII),  and  (c)  hillside  barbecue  oven 
(pi.  XVIII),  shown  in  the  accompanying  plates, 
include  the  range  of  facilities  normally  used 
for  barbecuing. 

The  word  "barbecue"  (both  as  a  noun  and 
a  verb)  is  used  in  connection  with  the  roasting 
of  the  whole  carcass  of  an  animal,  or,  for  con- 
venience in  handling,  the  carcass  is  sometimes 
quartered  or  cut  into   even    smaller   portions. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  bulletin,  only  the 
medium-sized  barbecue  pit  and  oven  is  shown 
in  the  detailed  drawings.  The  larger  barbecue 
pits  and  ovens,  when  required,  are  designed 
in  accordance  with  the  same  plans,  and  the 
size  is  computed  in  accordance  with  the 
requirements  of  use,  as  hereafter  explained. 

LOCATIONS  FOR  BARBECUE  PITS 
AND  BARBECUE  OVENS 

These  features  are  of  practical  use  only  where 
large  numbers  of  people  congregate  in  the 
open  to  eat  at  the  same  time.  The  specific 
location  selected  for  barbecue  pits,  in  particu- 
lar, must  be  well  drained,  because  any  fire 
built  in  the  bottom  of  a  pit  would  not  operate 
efficiently  if  free  moisture  were  present  to 
choke  out  the  fire.  The  presence  of  an  abnor- 
mal amount  of  moisture  would  cause  the  for- 
mation of  steam,  and  might  even  cause  an 
explosion. 

There  should  be  a  reasonably  large  open 
and  flat  area  adjacent  to  the  barbecue  pit  or 
oven,  in  order  that  all  of  the  people  who  are 
hkely  to  gather  for  any  such  occasion  may  be 
accommodated. 

The  construction  of  barbecue  features  is 
expensive,  and  the  successful  operation  of  the 
barbecue    pit   or    barbecue  oven  consumes  a 


large  quantity  of  wood.  These  features  should 
therefore  be  constructed  only  where  the  supply 
of  natural  fuel  is  plentiful,  and  where  there  is 
a  real  demand  for  the  use  of  this  kind  of  a 
cooking  facility. 

In  Puerto  Rico,  where  the  climate  permits 
outdoor  activity  during  the  entire  year,  and 
where  roast  pig  is  considered  a  real  delicacy, 
barbecue  pits  and  ovens  are  almost  a  neces- 
sity in  connection  with  public  recreation  areas. 

ADAPTATION    TO    USE 

Barbecue  facilities  are  adapted  to  the  roasting 
of  an  entire  carcass  or  to  one  or  more  large 
portions  of  meat  at  the  same  time. 

The  successful  operation  of  a  barbecue  pit 
or  oven  requires  an  experienced  individual 
who  understands  this  method  of  cooking  meat. 
Inexperienced  operators  may  easily  spoil  meat 
by  under-  or  over-cooking  it  through  incorrect 
operation  of  the  barbecue  pit  or  oven. 

The  real  purpose  of  the  barbecue  pit  and 
barbecue  oven  is  that  of  slowly  cooking  a  con- 
siderable quantity  of  meat  for  a  period  of  time 
which  may  vary  from  8  to  12  hours,  and  some- 
times 24  to  36  hours,  depending  upon  the  size 
of  the  carcass  and  the  degree  of  heat. 

The  maximum  success  in  barbecuing  meat 
is  procured  when  the  pit  or  oven  can  be  made 
practically  airtight  and  thus  resembling  a 
fireless  cooker.  Unless  the  pit  is  practically 
airtight,  the  meat  is  very  apt  to  burn. 

OPERATION  OF  BARBECUE  PIT  AND  OVEN 

While  barbecue  pits  and  ovens  possess  the 
advantage  of  providing  facilities  for  the  cooking 
of  a  considerable  quantity  of  meat  at  one  time, 
these  features  also  have  the  disadvantage  of 
being  difficult  to  operate  conveniently,  because 
of  the  intense  heat  and  the  unwieldiness  of  the 
ordinary-sized  carcass  of  a  steer  or  other 
animal,  unless  the  barbecue  feature  is  well 
designed  for  practical  operation.  The  practical 
methods  of  handhng  large  pieces  of  meat  are 
explained  in  the  text  which  accompanies  the 
following  plates. 


60 


DETERMINING    SIZE    OF 
BARBECUE   PIT   OR   OVEN 

The  actual  size  of  the  barbecue  pit  or  barbecue 
oven  is  determined  by  the  number  of  people 
for  whom  a  supply  of  meat  must  be  barbecued 
at  any  one  time.  In  determining  the  practical 
size  for  any  specific  area,  it  is  necessary  first 
to  determine  the  number  of  people  who  will 
occupy,  at  any  one  time,  a  recreation  area 
provided  with  barbecue  facilities. 

It  is  generally  estimated  that  1  cubic  foot  of 
meat  weighs  approximately  40  pounds,  and 
that  the  allowance  per  person  will  vary  from 
one-half  to  1  pound,  depending  upon  the  extent 
to  which  other  foods  are  supplied  for  any 
specific  occasion.  The  estimated  amount  of 
meat  consumed  per  person  will  also  depend 
upon  the  percentage  of  bone  which  remains  in 
any  carcass  to  be  barbecued  (allowance  of  20 
percent  is  usually  made  for  the  bone,  unless 
the  section  of  beef  has  been  boned)  and  it  will 
also  depend  upon  the  amount  of  waste  due  to 
undesirable  cuts  and  excessive  fat.  The  skill 
and  ingenuity  of  the  operator  in  properly  cook- 
ing and  properly  cutting  the  meat  when  served 
also  is  a  factor. 

It  is  further  generally  assumed  that  there 
ought  to  be  approximately  12  inches  of  clear- 
ance between  all  confining  surfaces  and  the 
meat.  A  cubic  foot  of  meat  would  therefore 
properly  fit  into  a  barbecue  pit  or  barbecue  oven 
with  dimensions  3  feet  wide,  3  feet  long,  and  3 
feet  high,  making  allowance  for  the  depth  of 
ashes  which  would  remain  in  the  bottom  of  the 
barbecue  pit,  but  no  allowance  for  any  ashes 
in  the  bottom  of  the  barbecue  oven  (inasmuch 
as  the  ashes  would  be  removed  from  the  bottom 
of  the  oven  before  the  meat  is  put  in  place). 
This  size  of  meat  would  therefore  serve  from 
40  to  80  persons,  depending  upon  the  condi- 
tions above  stated. 

On  the  basis  of  this  analysis,  the  number  of 
people  who  could  be  served  at  any  one  time 
through  the  cooking  facilities  of  the  barbecue 
pits  and  ovens  in  the  following  drawings  would 
be  approximately  as  follows: 

Barbecue  pit  shown  in  plate  XVI  (with  capacity  of 
approximately  310  pounds)  —number  of  people  to  be 
served  approximates  from  350  to  600. 


Plate  XVII  -  number  of  people  to  be  served  approxi- 
mates from  250  to  475. 

Plate  XVIII  number  of  people  to  be  served  approxi- 
mates from  450  to  875. 

MATERIALS  OF  CONSTRUCTION 

The  materials  of  construction  are  covered  in 
the  detailed  discussion  which  accompanies 
each  of  the  following  plates. 

In  general,  it  is  desirable  that  the  barbecue 
pit  and  barbecue  oven  should  be  properly 
lined  with  fire-clay  brick,  although  a  lining  of 
dense  volcanic  rock  would  also  serve  in  place 
of  the  fire-clay  brick. 

METHOD   OF  OPERATION 

In  the  successful  operation  of  a  barbecue  pit 
or  barbecue  oven,  the  meat  is  cooked  by  the 
heat  which  is  retained  in  the  surrounding  walls 
and  floor  of  the  barbecue  pit  or  oven. 

There  are  several  ways  of  preparing  meat 
for  barbecuing.  The  most  common  way  is  to 
take  the  cleaned  and  skinned  carcass  and 
roast  it  whole,  without  removing  any  bones. 

Oftentimes,  larger  animals  are  quartered, 
or  cut  into  even  smaller  portions,  each  weigh- 
ing from  40  to  50  pounds,  to  facilitate  the  ease 
of  handling.  When  the  meat  is  thus  cut,  the 
individual  pieces  should  be  of  approximately 
equal  size,  in  order  that  each  piece  may  cook 
uniformly.  The  usual  procedure  is  to  tie  the 
pieces  of  meat  with  heavy  twine,  like  rolled 
roasts  of  beef. 

Sometimes  a  method  of  barbecuing  called 
steam  roasting  is  adopted,  in  which  case  the 
pieces  of  meat  are  wrapped  in  wax  paper  and 
covered  by  damp  clean  sacks  before  being 
placed  in  the  pit  or  oven.  This  method  of  pro- 
cedure preserves  the  juices  in  the  meat  and 
gives  a  less-pronounced  roasted  taste. 

It  is  necessary,  in  cooking  the  meat,  that  the 
cover  to  the  pit,  or  the  doors  to  the  oven,  should 
be  replaced  and  the  cooking  space  sealed  as 
tightly  as  possible  immediately  after  putting 
the  meat  in  place. 

An  exclusion  of  air  from  the  pit  and  the  oven 
during  the  cooking  process  is  very  important, 
in  order  to  insure  that  the  meat  will  be  brown 
in  color,  tender,  and  not  burned,  and  also  in 
order  that  the  meat  shall  retain  its  natural 
flavor. 


61 


BARBECUE    PIT 


J.HE  barbecue  pit  offers  the  simplest  means 
of  maintaining  the  necessary  degree  of  heat 
for  barbecuing.  The  Indians  and  the  early 
settlers  discovered  long  ago  that  a  hastily  dug 
hole  or  trench,  in  the  bottom  of  which  wore 
placed  large  stones,  and  on  the  top  of  which 
had  been  built  a  hot  fire,  was  an  excellent 
means  of  cooking  large  portions  of  meat. 

Wherever  the  ground  is  sufficiently  well 
drained  to  make  practical  the  construction  of  a 
pit,  the  barbecue  pit  is  preferable  to  the  barbe- 
cue oven,  because  the  natural  ground  serves 
to  insulate  the  area  surrounding  the  pit  and 
preserves  the  maximum  amount  of  heat. 

The  walls  of  the  pit  may  be  made  of  concrete 
or  stone  masonry  and  the  sides  of  the  pit  lined 
with  fire-clay  brick,  as  shown  in  plate  XVI. 
The  floor  of  the  pit  should  be  of  pervious  soil  to 
provide  ready  drainage  and,  if  desirable,  to 
imbed  in  this  soil  a  few  larger  stones,  in  order  to 
retain  some  of  the  heat  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pit. 

A  fire  may  readily  be  made  in  the  pit  by 
inserting  one  or  two  posts  in  an  upright  posi- 
tion, and  heaping  the  wood  around  these 
posts.  After  the  wood  has  been  put  in  place, 
the  posts  are  then  withdrawn  and  a  small 
amount  of  kerosene  or  other  oil  may  be  poured 
into  the  hole,  and  the  wood  ignited  by  a  burning 
torch  dropped  into  the  hole. 

This  fire  thus  started  in  the  pit  (depending 
upon  the  size  of  the  pit)  should  be  kept  burning 
for  a  period  of  8  or  12  hours  or  longer,  in  order 
to  thoroughly  heat  the  bottom  and  side  walls, 
and  to  create  a  bed  of  ashes  over  the  bottom 
of  the  pit. 

After  the  fire  thus  maintained  has  thoroughly 
heated  the  pit,  the  carcass  or  chunks  of  meat 
are  put  into  place  in  a  wire  basket,  as  shown  in 
figures  1  and  5  of  the  accompanying  plate.  The 
cover  to  the  pit  may  consist  of  a  pair  of  hinged 


boiler-plate  doors,  reinforced  with  2-  by  3-inch 
angles  to  prevent  any  sagging  of  the  doors. 

As  shown  in  the  drawing,  these  doors  have 
large  handles  through  which  a  pole  may  be 
inserted  to  facilitate  lifting.  Free  standing  posts 
support  the  doors  when  the  pit  is  open  and 
prevent  straining  of  the  hinges. 

The  basket  is  made  of  woven  wire  and  is  sus- 
pended from  two  pipes,  which  rest  in  grooves  at 
the  ends  of  the  wall,  as  shown  in  figures  2  and  3. 

After  the  meat  is  put  in  place,  the  covers  to 
the  pit  are  closed  and  earth  is  banked  over  the 
top  of  the  covers  to  prevent  any  unnecessary 
loss  of  heat  and  to  increase  the  airtight  con- 
dition of  the  pit. 

When  the  pit  is  not  in  operation,  provisions 
should  be  made  so  that  the  covers  may  be 
locked,  in  order  to  prevent  vandaHsm  and  to 
avoid  accidents. 

In  many  places  in  the  western  part  of  the 
country,  food  is  cooked  in  a  "dutch"  oven, 
which  is  a  small  unit  (pi.  XI-A),  operaHng  on 
the  principle  of  the  barbeque  pit.  The  con- 
tainer, which  resembles  a  large  kettle,  is  made 
of  cast  iron  and  has  a  tight  fitting  cover.  A  fire 
is  built,  and  a  liberal  bed  of  live  coals  is  pro- 
duced by  burning  the  fire  for  the  desired  length 
of  time  to  produce  enough  coals  so  that  this 
"dutch"  oven  may  be  partly  buried  in  the  coals 
and  the  remainder  of  the  coals  may  then  be 
heaped  against  the  sides  and  over  the  top  of 
this  container  in  which  the  food  is  placed.  This 
method  of  cooking  requires  considerable  skill 
to  know  the  length  of  time  which  will  be  re- 
quired in  order  io  properly  cook  different  kinds 
of  meat  and  other  food.  The  "dutch"  oven,  so- 
called,  can  usually  be  purchased  from  hard- 
ware stores  in  the  western  part  of  the  country, 
and  it  is  in  general  use  by  the  sheep-herders 
and  others  who  wish  to  have  an  efficient  and 
compact  unit  in  which  to  cook  food. 


62 


BARBECUE     P 


FIG   1  ^ 


ATI  ON  ^_.--'~ 


^rOOR   UFTING  POLt  IN5ERTtD 
,-  r03R  HAMDLta   l"  ''>  WELDED 
^'i5/l&  BOILERPLATE  COVER5.  HINGED 


5ect.  E)-B 

FIG  Z 


!  HINGE    STRAP 


/^  JcTiStONE    OR  CONCRETE  . 


CONCRETE     fOOTING 


DCOR  LIFTING  POLt 


-REMOVABLE-     PIPE-OR-EAR 
MEAT  BA5KET  CARRIAGE. 
PROJECT  S'  AT  EACH  EMC 
A5  LIFTING   HANDLES 


i/z  Plan 
ThROUGti  Pit 

FIG  3  [portion] 


FIG  5 


-MEAT  CARRIAGE 


PLATE. DOQIffiJ  ti^l      WELDED 

.5LCT  C~C 

O    I    2   3  4   5  S  INCHES 


FIG  4- 


1/ZPLAN 

orTOP 

F 1 G  3    [portion] 


5CALt 


PLATE   XVI 


63 


BARBECUE    OVEN 


J.N  SOME  locations,  where  the  natural  drain- 
age facilities  are  not  acceptable  for  barbecue 
pits,  it  is  advisable  to  construct  barbecue  ovens. 

The  most  desirable  type  of  barbecue  oven  is 
the  type  such  as  is  shown  in  plate  XVIII,  which 
is  constructed  in  a  slope  so  that  the  front  of  the 
oven  is  the  only  evident  part  of  the  artificial 
construction. 

It  is  necessary,  however,  in  some  locations,  on 
the  flat  areas,  to  construct  a  barbecue  oven 
entirely  above  ground,  as  shown  in  plate  XVII. 
The  question  of  proper  insulation  for  conserving 
the  maximum  amount  of  heat  within  the  oven, 
is  a  primary  consideration.  One  method  of  con- 
struction, in  order  to  accomplish  this  result,  is 
shown  in  the  detailed  drawings  in  plate  XVII, 
through  which  method  of  construction  an  air 
space  is  provided  between  the  fire-clay  brick 
hning  and  the  outer  stone  masonry  shell. 

In  these  ovens,  not  only  the  side  walls  and 
the  roof,  but  also  the  floor,  is  of  fire-clay  brick. 
This  fire-clay  brick  floor  is  laid  upon  a  reen- 
forced  concrete  base.  After  the  oven  has  been 
thoroughly  heated,  the  ashes  are  raked  from 
the  oven  before  the  meat  is  placed  in  the  oven 
on  the  grill  which  is  shown  in  the  detailed 
drawing. 

In  this  type  of  feature,  the  stone-masonry 
walls  must  be  carried  below  the  frost-line. 

The  constructing  of  this  type  of  barbecue 
oven  requires  that  the  fire-clay  brick  shell  shall 
first  be  constructed  on  the  concrete  founda- 
tion. The  centering  is  then  put  in  place,  and 
the  outer  stone  masonry  shell  is  constructed. 


The  wood  members  used  for  the  centering  are 
thoroughly  soaked  before  being  put  in  place, 
so  that  there  can  be  no  subsequent  swelling 
which  might  injure  the  structure. 

It  does  not  matter  what  happens  to  this 
centering  after  the  construction  has  been 
completed.  In  all  probability  it  will  shrink 
and  drop  out  of  place,  and  it  will  probably 
char,  without  affecting  in  any  perceptible  de- 
gree, the  insulating  qualities. 

In  all  barbecue  ovens,  a  chimney  is  neces- 
sary. This  chimney  will  have  a  flue  lining, 
which  should  be  supported  on  iron  straps,  as 
shown  in  figure  2.  These  straps  are  supports 
for  a  removable  plate,  which  is  put  in  place 
after  the  fire  has  been  removed.  In  order  to 
properly  seal  this  part  of  the  oven,  natural 
earth  is  placed  on  the  top  of  the  plate  in  the  flue, 
as  shown  in  figure  5. 

The  grill,  of  reenforcing  mesh  (fig.  3),  on 
which  the  meat  is  placed  is  supported  by  ^i-inch 
rods,  as  shown  in  figures  2  and  5. 

After  the  meat  has  been  placed  in  the  oven, 
the  front  opening  is  closed  with  a  double  cover- 
ing consisting  of  an  inner  shield  of  sheet-iron 
(fig.  5),  which  is  locked  in  place  during  the 
actual  cooking  operation.  A  small  amount  of 
natural  earth,  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the 
inner  shield,  may  help  to  seal  this  opening. 

The  doors  are  then  closed  and  locked,  and 
it  might  be  advisable  to  place  a  small  amount 
of  earth  against  the  bottom  of  the  doors. 

When  not  in  use,  the  main  outside  doors 
should  be  kept  fastened  with  a  padlock. 


64 


i,  1  *Di  J  "ii.' 


IG.1    DLR^PECTIVE- 


BARBECUE    OVEN 


WATtR  PROOF  CEMtW' 


l*»'x2'57EAP5  WELDED 
C^ENDS  BENT  TNwAttD    4  UtyARD 


ME.TAL  LATH  CENTERING 
/Z'X'l'CtNTER.INC? ,  LETT  IN  PlACt 
/  f^OAK  THOROOGHLV  TO  iWE.U- 
DtFDRt  PLACING - 


3/*'  '"COD5,  3   O.C.   IN  TH-REt 
ALTERNATE.   HC5R1Z.  BRICK  JOINTS 
[PROJECT   3" INTO  TIRE.  BOX] 


NOT^-AN  ADDITIONAL  AIR 

SPACE  AND  iHE.LL  WOULC 
FURTHER  CONSERVE  THE. 
HEAT  FDR   OPERATION 


5ECT  A-A 
Fig -2 


; — :."'  Fig -5 


5TONE    MA^OND 


PLATE  -ROD 

l4'/2  SOU  REMOVABLE  PlAtt/,^ BvRTH  FILL  DJRUIG    OPERATION 

1  ITViv'T.C.FLUE;         ] 


-^m . 


■RLMQVABLE 
-lOaA  51    INN^T?   SHIELD 
RttNFORCED[PL  XVIIl  FIG  3] 
rf  •  3/4'  *  LOCX.  BAR 


'  y^      Sj-^-V-.V.V^^"  ' -V'     '  '       J  i 'LVlCt  AND  PADUJ 

^/^A  \  \///X      1/7    Dnn«. 


i/2'c  i  outer.  doors 

Hinged. 

^aUiP  WITH  UXKINQ 
]  riLVlCt  AND  PADLOCK 

GBOOND    LINE 


Plan 

Fig  4 


SECT  D-B 

Tig  5 


te. 

6  O  C    BOTH 
DIBECTION5 


5CALt 


PLATE   XVII 


65 


HILLSIDE    BARBECUE    OVEN 


J.HE  hillside  barbecue  oven,  where  natural 
conditions  of  topography  are  adapted  to  the 
construction  of  this  type  of  oven,  is  preferable 
to  the  free  standing  oven  shown  in  plate  XVII 
because  this  unit  is  not  as  conspicuous. 

Construction  of  the  hillside  barbecue  oven  is 


substantially  the  same  as  of  the  free  standing 
oven,  except  that  the  natural  earth  covering 
makes  it  unnecessary  to  provide  the  insulating 
air  space  between  the  back  of  the  fire-clay  brick 
lining  and  the  inside  surface  of  the  stone 
masonry  shell. 


66 


Plan  atC 


,  ^ 


'      J'!' 


_,  10  510NE.0PEM 


\'/a'/(I'A'1-  /   / 


/Af 


,50 


^ 


11  C  I  DOORo 


10  INCHES 


HILLSIDE   BARBECUE   OVEN 


RLMOVABLE, 


Plan 

PIG  5- 


5ECT  B-B 

^^^  BOTH  DIBECTIONS         Pip-    ("-) 


PLATE    XVIII 


67 


FIREPLACE    SHELTER    TYPES 


J.HE  fireplace  shelter  has  proved  to  be  a 
very  desirable  feature  on  many  campgrounds 
and  along  numerous  trails.  In  some  parts  of 
the  country  where  there  is  considerable  possi- 
bility of  heavy  storms  during  the  recreation 
season  these  shelters  are  essential.  The  shel- 
ters along  the  trails  are  usually  located  in  the 
more  remote  portions  of  the  forest  to  accommo- 
date hikers  and  horseback  riders  who  use  these 
trails  during  the  early  spring  and  the  late  fall. 
Properly  located  shelters  along  these  trails 
also  provide  effective  protection  in  case  of 
sudden  storms  by  affording  a  place  in  which 
to  get  away  from  rain  and  cold.  Shelters  of  the 
character  such  as  are  indicated  in  plate  XIX, 
if  appropriately  designed  to  be  adapted  to  the 
use  imposed  upon  them,  are  most  desirable. 
These  shelters  are  of  three  kinds: 

(a)  Shelter  with  a  fireplace  or  combination  stove  and 
fireplace  constructed  in  front  of  the  shelter  (hgs. 
1  and  5). 

(b)  Shelters  with  the  fireplace  or  combination  stove 
and  fireplace  constructed  within  the  shelter  (fig.  3). 

(c)  Shelters  with  a  fireplace  within  the  shelter  and  a 
camp  stove  in  front  of  the  shelter. 

The  problem  of  locating  the  camp  stove  in  re- 
lation to  the  front  of  the  shelter  is  important. 
The  shelter  must  be  so  oriented  that  the  prevail- 
ing winds  will  not  carry  the  smoke  from  the 
fireplace  into  the  shelter.  To  be  practical  the 
distance  between  the  front  line  of  the  shelter 
and  the  front  of  the  fireplace  should  not  be 
greater  than  8  feet.  If  the  fireplace  is  closer 
to  the  shelter,  the  heat  may  be  uncomfortable 
unless  the  shelter  is  abnormally  deep.  If  the 
fireplace  is  too  far  removed  from  the  shelter, 
then  it  serves  no  practical  purpose  for  providing 
heat  within  the  shelter  during  the  cold  rainy 


days  and  during  the  early  morning  and  even- 
ing hours  in  the  spring  and  fall. 

When  the  shelter  is  located  along  the  trails 
and  roads,  especially  in  the  mountains,  these 
structures  should  be  so  located  that  the  front 
of  the  shelter  will  command  important  views  of 
the  fine  mountain  scenery. 

The  design  for  the  shelter  may  be  that  of  a 
single  sloping  roof  {fig.  5)  or  with  a  gable  end 
(fig.  I).  Shelters  are  constructed  of  boards  or 
preferably  of  logs,  and  in  a  few  instances  they 
may  be  of  stone  masonry  construction. 

The  size  of  the  shelter  should  be  such  that 
there  is  ample  space  under  the  roof  to  provide 
for  one  single  bed  on  either  side  of  the  shelter, 
a  small  table  and  the  necessary  seating  ac- 
commodations. The  approximate  dimensions  of 
the  average  shelter  are  10  to  12  feet  in  width 
and  from  12  to  15  feet  in  depth. 

Where  a  fireplace  is  constructed  in  the  rear 
wall  of  the  shelter,  it  is  desirable  that  the  shelter 
be  somewhat  larger  than  the  above  measure- 
ments. A  fireplace  so  located  is  a  very  useful 
feature  especially  in  parts  of  the  country  where 
frequent  rains  cause  considerable  inconven- 
ience in  cooking  out  of  doors. 

The  fireplace  usually  constructed  at  the  front 
of  the  shelter  may  serve  two  purposes:  (a)  As 
a  warming  fire  and  (b)  as  a  cooking  fire.  A 
combination  warming  and  cooking  unit,  similar 
to  that  shown  in  plate  XV  is  probably  the  most 
practical  unit  to  be  used  in  connection  with 
shelter.  Where  the  fireplace  type  is  used,  those 
types  which  are  best  adapted  for  this  use  are 
shown  in  plates  VI,  VIII,  IX,  X,  and  XI. 

The  fundamental  principles  of  design  to  be 
followed  in  developing  the  fireplace  within  the 
shelter  are  shown  in  plate  XXIII. 


68 


\  OREGON  TYPE 
hG  1 


'^ff^,' 


PLAN  \a/ 

oregon  type 
Pig- 2 


ri  REPLACE    5MELTCR     TYPE5 


~      TPAiLSIOe    SHELTER. 
riG  5 


J^^..:  ii^:.'v^ 


Li 


^fZ 


(^ ^i^ — ^ 

PLAN 

TGAILSIDE-  SMErLTER. 

riG  4- 


adirondack   she-lterr.. 
Pig-  5 


PLAN  \r^( 

ADIRONDACK  LUl 

&HE:LrErR.  ^-^ cooking,  fioe 

Pig   S  o 5  10  15 


PLATE   XIX 


69 


WARMING   FIRES   AND   CAMP   FIRES 


J.HE  Mount  Hood  type  of  warming  fire  (fig.  1) 
is  used  in  connection  with  swimming  pools  on 
forest  campgrounds,  and  it  provides  a  feature 
around  which  the  bathers  may  sit  to  dry  them- 
selves after  a  plunge  in  cool  waters.  The  tem- 
perature of  the  air  among  the  large  timber  of 
some  of  the  mountain  forests  is  cool  even 
during  the  many  warm  days  of  the  summer 
months  and  these  warming  fires  are  a  wel- 
come feature.  The  splayed  sides  (fig.  2) 
provide  a  surface  which  reflects  a  maximum 
amount  of  heat. 

There  are  three  kinds  of  open  fires:  (a)  The 
bonfire;  (b)  the  campfire;  (c)  the  open  fire- 
place. 

This  part  of  the  discussion  is  confined  to  the 
campfire,  which   may  be  for  community-camp 


use  or  for  individual  groups  of  campers.  The 
bonfire  is  a  feature  similar  to  the  campfire,  but 
larger,  and  usually  for  large  groups. 

The  campfire  is  generally  developed  within 
a  circular  area  which  is  well  defined  by  a 
border  of  stones  (preferably  small  boulders). 
This  campfire  may  be  for  community  groups  or 
for  single  camp  groups. 

In  the  center  of  the  campfire  circle  it  is 
oftentimes  desirable  to  construct  an  upright 
post  of  concrete  or  of  iron  against  which  the 
logs  may  rest,  thus  developing  a  more  attrac- 
tive fire  than  can  be  produced  by  laying  the 
logs  in  horizontal  position. 

The  small  campfire  circle  (fig.  5)  may  also 
be  used  for  cooking  purposes,  as  shown  in  the 
sketch  and  m  the  accompanying  plan  (fig.  6). 


70 


iijlf^^i  _ii!|i[lill|| 


[o 


MT  HOOD  TYPE: 

PLAN 

Pig  Z  r^ 


gvzs-  4-  5- 


WARMING  riRES   ^  CAMP  HRES 


SECTION 


LOQ  5EAT5 
12"  14"  6- IS' 
HIGH 


riG  4 


SMALL  CAMP    P-lRt    CIRCLE" 

Pig  5 


SMALL  CAMP  PICE- 
CIKCLE 
PLAN 
h&  G 

KfcTTLEl 


PLATE   XX 


71 


CONSTRUCTION     DETAILS 


rOR  the  successful  design  and  construction  of  camp  stoves 
and  fireplaces,  it  is  most  essential  that  the  details  of  design  and 
construction  should  be  given  the  most  thorough  consideration. 
Inasmuch  as  these  details  may  apply  to  a  number  of  types  of 
camp  stoves  or  fireplaces,  it  has  been  deemed  advisable  to 
arrange  these  construction  details  for  ready  reference,  upon 
the  following  sheets  (pis,  XXI,  XXII,  and  XXII~A). 

There  are  a  number  of  variations  in  these  details  and  it  is 
only  the  purpose  of  these  three  drawings  to  provide  detailed 
information  concerning  the  fundamental  information  which  is 
necessary  for  reference  in  connection  with  construction  details 
for  these  features. 


73 


CONSTRUCTION    DETAILS 


FIGURE   1 

Section  through  firebox  lined  with  4'/2  inches  of 
fire-clay  brick  at  sides  and  2'/2  inches  of  fire-clay 
brick  on  hearth.  The  grate  is  chained. 

FIGURE  2 

Section  through  firebox,  with  21/2  inches  of 
fire-clay  brick  side  lining  and  hearth.  The  grate 
is  hinged.   (For  hinge  detail,  see  fig.  3.) 

FIGURE  3 

Grate  hinge  detail.  The  grate  frame  is  ex- 
tended at  hinge  side  as  shown  the  ends  being 
welded  together.  The  extended  portions  have  a 
S/g-inch  diameter  hole  for  passage  of  hinge  rod. 
The  '/2-irich  diameter  hinge  rod  is  held  in  3/^-inch 
pipe  sleeves  built  into  the  masonry. 

FIGURE  4 

A  further  development  of  the  grate  hinge  shown 
in  figure  3.  Here  a  solid  plate  is  hinged  on  to 
the  same  hinge  rod  carrying  the  grate.  The  solid 
plate  may  be  thrown  back  independently  of  the 
grate;  or  both  plate  and  grate  may  be  thrown 
open,  converting  the  fireplace  into  a  warming 
reflector.  In  this  detail,  the  hinge  bars  are  two 


separate  bent  sections,  with  flattened  ends,  built 
into  the  chimney  (also  see  pi.  X). 

FIGURE  5 

Detail  of  built-in  grate  bars.  The  bars  are  let 
into  pipe  sleeves,  allowing  for  expansion.  They 
may  or  may  not  be  arranged  in  such  a  way  that 
removal  and  replacement  can  be  taken  care  of 
in  case  of  damage. 

In  plan  B,  the  bolts  near  either  end  of  the  rod 
are  removed.  The  rod  is  slipped  back  into  one 
sleeve  pocket,  freeing  the  other  end  for  com- 
plete removal. 

In  plan  C,  one  or  both  ends  of  the  rod,  to- 
gether with  its  pipe  sleeve  fitting,  pass  com- 
pletely through  the  side  walls  of  the  fireplace, 
with  bolts  as  shown,  for  securing  the  rod  in  place. 

FIGURE  6 

Eye  bolt  chain  anchor. 

FIGURE  7 

Pin  chain  anchor. 

In  addition  to  types  shown,  the  end  of  the 
chain  may  be  spiked  to  a  post,  or  log  deadman 
sunk  into  the  ground. 


74 


FIRLBOX  DETAIL,  ^ECT. 

4/2  "SIDE.   LINING.    CMAINtD    GP/^Tt  . 

riG  1 


MRLDOX  DETAIL  ,  5E.CT 

2'/2'  51Dt  LINING,    MINQED     GRATE. 
t=l(^     ^  O   ....   5-       _ 


CONSTRUCTION      DETAILS 


m 


■3/4  P!Pt5LE£.VE. 


rO/A 


/t'^"  A 


l/2'^HINQt  UOD 


PIAN 


1 


U-   iQ 


GRATL.  hINGL  DETAIL     A-^ 
Fig  3 

o      1"    z"    3"  4-"    5" 

5EEAL50  PlATt  m 


A 


FLATTEN  AT  END 

PlAM 

A-1 

1/2"  "^BENT  HINQL  ROD  I 

BUILT  INTO  CHIMNEY  j 


10  QA.  PLATE.- 


-GRATt  DOTTtD- 


COMB.  GRATt  ^  PU\TL 
hlNGL  DETAIL 
riG  4 

SEE  Also  PLATt  x 


d 


2       3      4-5 


FIRE  BRICK  "^ 

Plan  B  ' 


!    >  PIPE  SLEEVE  L-ROD 


m^Hi 


SE 


"P       PiANC 


M 


BUILT-IN  GRAm  EAR  DETAILS 
Fig  5 

O       r      2'      3"    -4'      5"' 
5LL  ALSO  PVATt    JS:  ^     ' 


LYL  BOLT  ANCHOR- 
PIG  6 


PIN  ANCHOR 
Fig  7 


^EE  ALSO    PLATE 


PLATE   XXI 


75 


CONSTRUCTION   DETAILS 


FIGURE   1 

Wire-mesh  grill  details.  A  heavy  woven  mesh 
or  reenforcing  mesh  is  welded  or  hooked 
around  a  rod  frame,  and  the  resulting  grate 
may  either  be  chained  to  the  fireplace  or 
hinged,  as  shown,  by  means  of  eyebolt  hinges. 

FIGURE  Z 

There  is  great  variance  of  opinion  as  to  the 
respechve  merits  of  solid  tops  or  open  grates. 
Also  as  to  the  respective  merits  of  cast  iron  and 
sheet  iron.  (See  general  discussion.)  The  vari- 
ous thicknesses  are  indicated. 

FIGURE  3 

A  chimney  is  shown  lined  on  the  one  hand  with 
fire-clay  brick,  and,  as  a  variation,  with  terra 
cotta  flue  Hning. 


"A",  "B",  and  "C"  show  various  types  of 
spark  arresters. 

A  damper  is  shown  below. 

FIGURE  4 

Various  designs  of  angle  iron  reenforcing  are 
welded  to  the  underside  of  the  plates.  Addi- 
tional dispositions  of  the  angles  are  possible 
in  a  number  of  ways.  In  the  case  of  cast- 
iron  tops,  the  reenforcing  ribs  are  an  integral 
part  of  the  casting  and  by  some  persons  the 
cast-iron  top  with  such  reenforcing  is  pre- 
ferred. 

Holes  are  conveniently  spotted  in  the  tops 
to  facilitate  easier  handling. 

Bent  flanges  may  decrease  the  danger  of 
sagging. 


76 


A- 


7^ 


WELDED    OR   HOOKED 


3/6"  "P  EVt 
BOLT   HINGE. 


VlRLME5h  GRILL 
DETAILS  ^r=^ 

Fig   1 

SEE  ALSO  PLATE   K 


i 


lO    GA     :>HE 


^ON  -SHOULD  BEREENPDRCtD 


15  E£M  FORCE.  FDR  LARGL  5RevN3 


GAUGC5  6 
ThlCKNL55&5 
roR5IOVElDR5 

figZ 


CONSTRUCTION      DETAILS 


-4-X4.  ME5M    G.I. 


A    I     D  P- 


5PARK  ARt^E5rER 


10  G  A.  STRAPS 


CHIMNEY    DETAILS 
Fig  5 


it 

-//l-xl-Ls    A 

\ 

wy 

•  CtAB.   FLANGE 


FROtrr  FLANG 

BENT  FLA  Nats 


O' 


A    5EC  PLATE    Xm 


D   5EE.PtATE.37a 
VACATION 


BEMT  FLANGES 


3iNT  '^LA-J 

3E.5 

- 

XZO'X    14 
PUOTE. 

5.1. 

c 

I'X  1"  LS-X 
WELDED     I 


C?^r 


C      -SEE  PLATtVni 

TOP  DETAILS 

Fig  4-  o 


D    5E£PIAT^  E? 
VARIATIOM 


PLATE    XXII 


77 


CONSTRUCTION   DETAILS 


COOKING  STANDARD  FOR 
CAMPFIRE  USE 

This  cooking  standard  may  be  used  either 
as  a  single  standard  (pi.  XX,  figs.  5  and  6)  or 
as  a  double  standard  (pi.  XXII  A,  iigs.  1  and 
2).  It  is  a  simple  unit  of  use  primarily  on  picnic 
areas,  and  especially  adapted  for  use  by 
hunters  and  fishermen. 

In  this  unit,  facilities  are  provided  for 
broiling  on  a  grate,  and  for  cooking  otherwise 
on  a  plate  or  grate.  Kettles  may  be  hung  on 
the  hooks  shown  in  figure  2. 

This  unit  is  generally  installed  with  a  small 
campfire  circle.  The  provision  for  raising  or 
lowering  the  irons  on  which  the  cooking  is 
done,  is  shown  in  the  details  under  figure  1. 

The  idea  of  the  double  standard  shown  in 
figure  2  originated  in  region  1  of  the  Forest 
Service. 

CAST    IRON   AND    SHEET    IRON, 
STOVE   DETAILS 

The  important  requirements  to  be  fulfilled  in 
the  design  for  the  door  on  the  front  of  the 
firebox  are  as  follows: 

(a)  To  construct  the  door  oi  a  quality  of  iron  which 
will  prevent  the  door  Irom  warping  when  exposed 
to  heat. 

(b)  To  make  provisions  .to  that  the  door  may  be  securely 
closed. 


(c)  To  provide  a  draft  opening  in  the  door. 

(d)  To    provide    hinges   so   that    the    door    will    remain 
hanging  in  its  correct  position. 

The  draft  in  the  door  as  shown  in  figures  3,  4, 
and  5  may  be  through  an  opening  which  is  con- 
stant (as  in  fig.  3),  or  it  may  be  through  holes, 
the  area  of  which  may  be  increased  or 
decreased  by  a  revolving  lid  (as  in  fig.  4),  or 
by  a  shding  damper  (as  in  fig.  5).  If  the  type 
of  draft  opening  shown  in  figure  3  is  used,  it 
seems  advisable  to  install,  in  addition,  a  damper 
in  the  chimney  to  properly  control  the  draft. 
The  damper  in  the  chimney  is  not  generally 
required  when  there  is  provision  for  opening 
and  closing  the  front  draft  as  shown  in  figures 
4  and  5. 

Four  methods  of  hinging  the  door  at  the  front 
of  the  firebox  are  shown  in  figures  3,  4,  5,  and  6. 
The  method  of  attaching  the  doors  with  hinges 
as  shown  in  figure  5  is  the  least  desirable,  and 
the  methods  shown  in  figures  3  and  4  are  the 
most  desirable.  The  kind  of  hinge  shown  in 
figure  5  does  not  always  hold  the  door  solidly 
in  place. 

Doors  are  also  hinged  at  the  top  and  at  the 
bottom.  The  hinging  of  doors  at  the  bottom 
should  be  discouraged,  and  the  hinging  of 
doors  at  the  top  does  not  seem  to  be  as  practical 
in  actual  use  as  hinging  the  doors  on  the  side. 


78 


SEE   ALSO   PLATE  2Z,    FIG   G 


PLAN 


FlG-1 


CCX^KING  STANDARD  FOR  CAMPFIRE    USE 


CONSTRUCTION      DETAILS 


^5/s'c.i.FACE>     ELtVATION 


B-B     ^ 


5tCTION     A-A 
F I G  3  G\5T  IRON  STOVE  DETAI L5 


SECT  B-D 


ELtVATION 


Fig  4     CAST  IRON  STOVE  DETAILS 


5EE  ALSO  PLATE  3M,  f  IG  2 


-lOGA&.ITOP 


SECT.  B-B  FRONT  ELEVATION 

O  5" 

FIG.  5    SHEET  ICON  5TOVE  DETAILS 


SEE   ALSO   PLATEXI    FIG,  3  glQE    ELEV.^r^TV 

lO  GA  5  I   TOP  -^  ry^,'^^-\ 


DETAILS    TOP  WINGE  ci^^^elded 


>■  lOGA  51  DOOR. -^^ . 

J'WOLE 

O  W.I    HINGES 

WELDED  TO  DOOC 


c±  ^t1 

a  8   p^^^ 


A  O 


FRONT  ELEVATION    j^^mbedin  ma.onry 
o  ,   5-  SECT  A  A     '^ 

Fig  6   SHEET  IRON  STOVE  DETAILS 


PLATE   XXII     A 


79 


FIREPLACE     CONSTRUCTION 

WITHIN    SHELTERS 


J.HE  design  of  the  fireplace  to  be  constructed 
within  a  shelter  must  follow  closely  the  funda- 
mental requirements  for  the  design  of  any 
interior  fireplace.  Ordinarily,  the  ftreplace 
designed  within  a  shelter  building  and  pri- 
marily for  use  for  warming  purposes  is  higher 
and  wider  than  the  normal  fireplace  in  the 
average  residence. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  important 
requirements  which  should  be  recognized  in 
developing  a  proper  design  for  such  a  fire- 
place. 

GENERAL  DESIGN 

Any  well-designed  fireplace  should  have  a 
proper  draft  which  will  eliminate  any  smoking. 

The  back  of  the  fireplace  should  slope  for- 
ward to  the  rear  line  of  the  throat  as  shown 
in  the  drawing.  The  maximum  heat  can  be 
radiated  into  the  room  by  splaying  the  sides. 

The  lining  of  the  fireplace  should  be  of  fire- 
clay brick,  carefully  laid  in  accordance  with 
the  directions  contained  on  page  14. 

THROAT  AND  FLUE 

The  most  important  detail  of  fireplace  design 
concerns  the  throat  and  the  flue,  either  or  both 
of  which,  if  not  properly  designed,  cause  failure 
in  the  practical  use  of  the  fireplace. 

The  horizontal  net  sectional  area  of  the  flue 
should  be  about  one-twelfth  to  one-tenth  of  the 
area  of  the  fireplace  opening.  The  normal 
fireplace  opening  ranges  from  2  feet  6  inches 
to  4  feet  in  width,  16  to  22  inches  in  depth,  and 
2  feet  6  inches  to  3  feet  in  height.  If  the  fire- 
place is  abnormally  high,  then  the  area  of  the 
flue  should  be  increased  and  may  be  as  much 
as  one-eighth  of  the  area  of  the  fireplace  open- 
ing, in  order  to  provide  an  adequate  draft  to 
properly  remove  the  smoke. 

In  computing  the  area  for  the  flue,  care 
should  be  exercised  to  make  certain  that  the 


net  area  is  adopted.  The  sizes  of  the  tile  used 
for  lining  the  flue  are  apt  to  be  misleading 
in  that  round  tile  are  designated  by  inside 
measurements  and  the  rectangular  or  square 
tile  are  designated  by  outside  measurements. 

In  the  higher  fireplaces  with  normal  area  of 
flue,  all  of  the  fire  should  be  back  of  the  rear 
line  of  the  hood  at  the  top  of  the  fireplace.  In 
reality,  the  damper  in  the  fireplace  constructed 
in  shelter  buildings  can  well  be  eliminated  if 
the  throat  and  flue  are  properly  designed. 

The  throat  should  extend  across  the  full  width 
of  the  opening  at  the  top  of  the  fireplace  and 
the  front  line  of  the  throat  should  be  as  near 
the  front  of  the  fireplace  as  it  is  practical  to 
make  it.  Its  sectional  area  should  be  (when  the 
damper  is  open)  the  same  or  very  little  less 
than  that  of  the  flue. 

The  flue  must  be  reduced  to  its  normal  re- 
quired size  by  sloping  the  sides  as  shown  in  the 
elevation,  and  the  center  of  the  flue  must  be 
directly  over  the  middle  of  the  fireplace.  Any 
deflection  which  is  to  occur  in  the  ahnement 
of  the  flue  must  occur  above  this  point  where 
the  flue  reaches  a  normal  and  constant  area. 
If  the  flue  is  deflected  to  one  side  immediately 
as  it  leaves  the  throat,  one  side  of  the  fireplace 
will  smoke. 

The  interior  of  the  flue  should  not  be  plas- 
tered, as  is  sometimes  done.  This  is  not  good 
construction  because  the  plaster  is  apt  to  peel 
and  break  away  from  the  brickwork,  thus  clog- 
ging the  flue. 

The  down  current  of  cold  air  which  may 
occur  when  the  fire  is  being  started  is  overcome 
by  the  construction  of  a  flat  shelf.  This  shelf 
deflects  the  down-current  of  cool  air  and  carries 
it  back  into  the  up-current  of  warm  air.  If  this 
shelf  is  not  constructed,  there  is  a  down  draft 
at  the  back  of  the  fireplace,  especially  when 
the  fire  is  being  started,  thus  driving  smoke 
into  the  room.  This  down  draft  does  not  occur 


80 


o 

b 

D 

d 

z 

O 

o 
IJJ 

u 

a 

lJJ 


« 

^^^^;^^^^^ 

mM:iv- 

b 

m 

\i^ 

>B^^^^ 

m^-" 

PLATE   XXIII 


81 


after  the  fire  is  well  aturted  and  the  flue  is 
sufficiently  heated  so  that  the  entire  air  current 
is  upward.  The  smoke  shelf  might  be  sloped 
slightly,  in  order  that  if  any  rain  comes  down 
the  chimney  during  heavy  storms  this  moisture 
would  drain  into  the  fireplace. 

In  many  fireplaces,  a  damper  is  desirable. 
This  damper  should  be  installed  as  shown  in 
the  detail  and  must  open  through  the  full  length 


of  the  throat.  The  damper  in  the  throat  of  the 
fireplace  is  really  only  necessary  in  order  to 
close  the  fireplace  during  the  period  of  the 
year  when  the  fireplace  is  not  in  use,  and  thus 
protect  the  interior  of  the  building  against  any 
drafts  of  cool  air,  insects,  etc.,  which  might 
come  through  the  chimney. 

The  flue  is  usually  lined  with  terra  cotta  in 
preference  to  any  other  construction. 


82 


GOOD    AND    BAD    STONEWORK 


XHE  stonework  in  a  great  many  of  the  existing 
fireplaces  which  have  been  observed  by  the 
author  is  not  well  done.  The  type  of  stonework 
which  seems  appropriate  and  inappropriate 
for  camp  stoves  and  fireplaces  is  illustrated  on 
the  accompanying  plates  (XXIV  and  XXV). 
The  mistakes  which  are  frequently  made  in 
the  texture  of  stonework  in  fireplaces  are  the 
following: 

A.  Using  a  type  of  stone  which  is  not  adapted  for  this 
kind  of  a  unit,  as  shown  in  plate  XXIV,  figure  6,  and 
in  plate  XXV,  figure  6. 

B.  Laying  the  stonework  on  an  unnatural  bed  which 
does  not  create  a  pleasing  composition  in  the  camp 
stove  or  fireplace  design  (pi.  XXIV,  fig.  2;  pi.  XXV, 
fig.  6). 

C.  Using  a  type  of  texture  which  is  too  formal  for  such  a 
feature  in  naturalistic  surroundings  (pi.  XXV,  fig.  4). 

D.  Using  cobblestones  which  are  not  carefully  laid  and 
produce  a  loose  and  unstable  effect  (pi.  XXIV,  fig.  4). 

It  is  very  essential  that  the  stonework  be  con- 
structed in  a  permanent  way  and  that  the 
texture  of  the  stonework  be  appropriate  to  the 
naturalistic  surroundings. 

So  far  as  is  practical,  the  horizontal  effect 
which  is  excellently  illustrated  in  plate  XXV, 
figures  3  and  5,  and  plate  XXIV,  figure  3, 
should  be  procured  if  possible. 

No  camp  stove  or  fireplace  should  be  con- 
structed to  present  the  formal  effect  of  stone 
texture  which  is  illustrated  in  plate  XXV, 
figure  4.  The  use  of  broken  stone  with  sharp 
angles  and  laid  in  such  a   manner  that  the 


surface  texture  is  very  uneven  and  the  mortar 
joints  deep,  as  shown  in  plate  XXV,  figure  6, 
should  also  be  very  definitely  avoided.  This 
same  type  of  stone,  if  carefully  selected  and 
well  laid,  can  produce  an  appropriate  and 
desirable  effect.  When  laid  as  shown  in  plate 
XXV,  figure  6,  it  gives  the  effect  of  an  unin- 
teresting pile  of  stones  with  no  character  in 
texture. 

The  stone  which  is  laid  on  an  unnatural  bed, 
as  shown  in  plate  XXIV,  figure  2,  and  pro- 
ducing the  vertical  effect,  increases  the  appar- 
ent height  of  the  camp  stove;  while  the  stone 
laid  on  a  natural  bed  and  producing  a  hori- 
zontal effect,  as  shown  in  plate  XXIV,  figure  3, 
decreases  the  apparent  height  of  the  camp  stove. 

The  camp  stove  which  is  constructed  of  over- 
sized units  of  stone  with  rough  surface,  as 
shown  in  plate  XXIV,  figure  6,  is  to  be  dis- 
couraged. 

In  general,  it  is  not  a  logical  procedure  to 
use  in  every  instance  the  stone  which  is  avail- 
able in  any  specific  locality  without  making 
an  effort  to  find  stone  which  is  better  adapted 
for  camp  stove  construction. 

The  above  discussion  relates  primarily  to 
stoves  and  fireplaces  that  expose  a  surface  of 
stonework  sufficient  to  be  designated  as  a 
"wall."  In  the  case  of  the  primitive  and 
naturalistic  fireplaces,  both  the  size  of  the 
stones  and  the  method  of  laying  may  be  varied 
as  shown  in  the  various  drawings. 


83 


WIDTrt    OF-  JOINTS 
VARIABLE  AVECAGt  I  " 


-^^m 


VOLCANIC  ROCK 

NATUEAL    EESOUCCe 


riG. 


COMPARE  WITH     RG    5 
OP  THIS     SMEtT 


UNNATURAL  BED 

BAD 


hG      2 


GOOD  AND  BAD  5TONEWORK 

POR    CAMP     STOVErS    AND    P-lRErPLACtS 


WIDTH    OF-  JOINTS 
AVERAGE-     %" 


CDEErK   BOTTOM   STONE 

TMIN   LAYER  GOOD 


ElG.5 


COMPAR.t   WITH    PIGS 
OP  THIS    5HEE:T 


COBBLE  STONE 

BAD 


Fig  4 


WIDTH  OF-   JOINTS 
TO    1" 


ROUGH     STONE 

GOOD     SCALE 


Fig  5 


COMPARE  WITH  PIG  5 
OF  THIS     SMtET 


ROUGH    STONE 

OVER.&CALE        —    BAD 


EiG    6 


PLATE   XXIV 


84 


A/IDTH    OF    JOINTS 

=/8'-To: 


TCIMMED  STONE  AT  RANDOM 

GOOD 

Pig  1 


COMPARE  WITH    PIG    3 
OP  THIS      SHEET- 


LOOSE:    RUBBLE 

BAD 


Pig    2 


GOOD  AND  BAD  STONEWORK 

FOR.    CAMP     STOVES    AND    PIREPLACErS 


WIDTH    OP  JOINTS 
AVERAGt     %" 


CDEEK   BOTTOM   STONE 

COURSt  GOOD 

Pig  5 


COMPAQ.E:   WITH  FIG  1 
OP  THIS    SHEET 


STONEr  BLOCK 

BAD  FOR  NATURAL  5tTTlNG 

hG.  4 


WIDTH  OF    JOINTS 
'/a'  TO     ^4 


SPLIT    STONE 

GOOD 


Fig  5 


COMPARE  WITH  PIG  5 
OP  THIS     SHEET 


PILED    STONt 

BAD 


Pig    G 


PLATE   XXV 


85 


UNDESIRABLE   TYPES 


FIGURE   1 

A  fireplace  unit,  whether  portable  or  stationary, 
with  walls  of  concrete,  is  out  of  place  in  any 
natural  surrounding.  The  concrete  fails  to 
weather  sufficiently  to  produce  any  softening 
effect  and  it  disintegrates  under  extreme 
changes  of  temperature  (especially  when 
doused  with  water). 

FIGURE  2 

The  hard  and  formal  cut  stone  or  dimension 
stone  should  not  be  used  in  any  natural  setting. 
Such  fireplaces  (well  designed)  may  have  their 
proper  place  on  some  parts  of  private  estates 
and  home  grounds;  but  not  in  the  forest.  An 
equally  undesirable  type  of  design  is  that 
which  exposes  the  fire-clay  brick  across  the 
front  of  the  fireplace,  as  shown  in  figure  2.  The 
use  of  large  grate  bars,  spaced  so  far  apart 
that  the  grill  is  not  practical  for  cooking  pur- 
poses, should  be  avoided. 

FIGURE  3 

As  stated  elsewhere  in  this  discussion,  the 
standard  grate,  without  sides  as  shown  in  this 
sketch,  is  only  practical  and  desirable  on  pic- 
nic areas  which  are  intensively  used,  and 
where  the  fire  hazard  is  negligible.  There  is  a 
proper  use  for  this  grate,  as  shown  in  plate  I, 
figures  4,6B,  and6C,  andinplateslllandlll  A. 

FIGURE  4 

An  example  of  a  "clumsy"  fireplace,  with  an 
unusually  large  fire  box  and  a  type  of  cobble- 
stone texture  which  makes  this  feature  exceed- 
ingly undesirable. 


FIGURE    S 

The  stonework  in  such  fireplaces  is  very  "cold" 
and  unattractive.  The  firebox  has  no  fire-clay 
brick  lining.  The  use  of  the  lower  grate  is  not 
practical  and  the  solid  attachment  of  the  grate 
or  the  bars  to  the  stone  masonry  causes  un- 
due damage  because  of  expansion  from  the 
heat. 

FIGURE   6 

This  type  is  all  chimney  and  no  fireplace.  It 
has  all  of  the  undesirable  qualities  which  could 
possibly  be  introduced  into  a  single  unit.  It  is 
more  of  an  ill-proportioned  chimney  than  a 
fireplace. 

FIGURE    7 

An  incongruous  type  of  construction,  with  a 
brick  chimney  and  stone  masonry  sides,  where 
the  stone  texture  is  extremely  unattractive 
because  of  the  regular  courses  of  small  boul- 
ders, which  create  an  unstable  effect. 

FIGURE   8 

A  monumental  type  of  hreplace  which  would 
"roast  an  ox"  as  quickly  as  it  would  broil  lamb 
chops.  The  top  of  the  firebox  (approximately 
36  to  40  inches  in  height)  is  too  high.  The 
stonework  is  much  too  fine  in  texture  and  the 
entire  massive  effect  is  one  which  should  be 
avoided. 

FIGURES    9,    10,    AND    11 

The  "ice  box"  and  the  "oil  drum"  types  are 
to  be  avoided  on  every  possible  occasion  be- 
cause of  their  very  inappropriate  design. 


86 


Pre.  4 


KUBBLt    MA50N[^Y 

POOR    DESIGN    AND  tXECUTION 


e    TYPES 

I      4 

-'-'-^  RUBBLt 

AND  BR.1CK 
THt"5TON&PlLE'  Fig.    7 

Fig.  6 


PLATE   XXVI 


87 


FREQUENT    MISTAKES 

IN  FIREPLACE  AND   CAMP  STOVE 
DESIGN  AND   CONSTRUCTION 


A.  Structures  too  large  and  too  conspicuous 
to  be  in  harmony  with  surroundings. 

B.  Structures  too  comphcated  in  design  and 
construction. 

C.  Lack  of  proper  setting,  or  necessary 
screening,  as  viewed  from  important 
points. 

D.  Lack  of  character  in  texture  of  stone- 
work and  unfortunate  selection  of  stones. 

E.  Lack  of  consideration  for  correct  details 
of  construction  in  lining  walls  or  firebox. 

F.  Use  of  common  mortar  for  fire-clay  brick 
lining  and  making  joints  in  fire-clay 
brick  construction  too  thick. 

3.  Excessive  size  of  firebox. 

H.  Incorrect  construction  in  attaching  bars 

and  top  plates  to  masonry  without  making 

provision  for  expansion. 
L  Spacing  of  bars  in  top  grate  too  far  apart. 


].  Incorrect  reenforcing  and  lack  of  proper 
attachment  for  top  plate,  in  order  to  pre- 
vent warping. 

K.  Having  top  plate  too  thick  and  thus  pre- 
venting efficient  heating. 

L.  Existence  of  sharp  corners  in  construction 

of  stone  masonry. 
M.  Making  stone  masonry  walls  so  thick  that 
there  is  inconvenience  in  using  the  top 
plate  for  cooking. 

N.  Lack  of  provision  for  adequate  flat  wall 

space  on  which  to  set  cooking  utensils. 
O.  Building    chimneys    with    flues    on    fire- 
places which  do   not   have   a   solid  top 
plate.   In    such    instances     the     flue     is 
useless. 

P.  Using  too  many  movable  parts  and  of  not 
sufficient  strength  to  prevent  them  from 
being  easily  bent  or  broken. 


CAMP    UNIT    LAYOUTS 


Nc 


lO  DISCUSSION  with  reference  to  camp 
stoves  and  fireplaces  can  be  complete  without 
including  information  with  reference  to  the 
lay-out,  especially  of  camp  units. 

In  the  picnic  area  a  tent  or  shelter  is  very 
seldom  used.  The  area  in  which  the  family 
automobile  may  be  parked  is  usually  in  a  park- 
ing space  which  is  within  a  reasonable  dis- 
tance of  the  picnic  table  and  fireplace.  Food 
and  other  supplies  are  taken  from  the  auto- 
mobile, in  its  parking  space,  to  the  picnic  table. 
The  picnickers  prepare,  to  the  extent  necessary, 
the  food  which  must  be  cooked  generally  over 
a  fireplace. 

In  the  camp  area  a  tent  or  shelter  is  almost 
always  used  and  the  camp  stove  is  the  gen- 
erally acceptable  cooking  unit.  The  automo- 
bile must  be  parked  very  close  to  the  camp 
unit  because  it  is  continuously  in  use  as  the 
family  larder  to  which  access  must  be  procured 
before  and  after  each  of  the  three  daily  meals. 
A  separate  general  parking  area  removed 
from  the  camp  units  is  not  a  practicable 
solution  to  the  problem. 

The  solving  of  the  design  for  the  camp  unit 
is  more  of  a  problem  than  the  picnic  area 
unit  involving  only  the  table  and  fireplace. 

The  camp  unit  may  be  occupied  by  the  auto- 
mobile alone,  or  by  an  automobile  with  a 
trailer.  The  trailer  presents  a  problem  which 
is  different  from  the  problem  when  only  the 
automobile  is  used. 


The  two  sketches  "A"  and  "B"  indicate  two 
of  the  methods  for  developing  the  camp  unit 
in  connection  with  the  trailer.  The  more  prac- 
tical method  of  providing  space  for  the  auto- 
mobile and  trailer  is  that  of  developing  a  loop, 
as  shown  in  sketch  "B."  This  loop,  when 
meeting  the  requirements  of  a  single  camp 
unit,  may  be  a  one-way  narrow  drive,  or  only 
of  sufficient  width  to  provide  for  the  automobile 
and  trailer,  or  where  the  loop  meets  the  re- 
quirements of  two  or  more  camp  units  the  road- 
way should  be  "two-way." 

It  may  be  desirable  in  some  locations,  where 
a  loop  is  not  practicable,  to  use  a  spur  in 
which  to  back  the  automobile  and  trailer,  as 
shown  in  sketch  "A."  There  may  be  other  camp 
units  in  which  it  is  desirable  to  provide  for  one 
or  more  families  in  a  single  parking  space 
adjacent  to  the  camp  unit,  as  shown  in  sketch 
"C." 

The  sketches  marked  "D"  to  "O",  inclusive, 
show  the  possibilities  for  the  arrangement  of 
the  camp  unit  in  order  to  provide  for  the  auto- 
mobile, tent,  camp  stove  (and  where  desired, 
campfire)  and  the  picnic  table.  In  some  areas, 
a  warming-fire  may  not  be  required,  and  there- 
fore only  a  camp  stove  is  used,  as  shown  in 
sketches  "F",  "H",  "J",  and  "N."  In  other 
locations,  it  is  desirable  to  provide  a  converti- 
ble type  of  camp  stove,  which  may  meet  the 
requirements  for  cooking  and  for  a  warming- 
fire,  as  shown  in  plates  X  and  XI. 


90 


....;•■■;;■•      4>   ,-^*^ 


WAY     ROAD — ► 


AUTOMOBILE 


g      TABLE 
[Tj  TENT 


3      BONFIRE 
PREVAILING  WIND 


5    0    0     :::; 

jTnicc;; 

Z   WAV    ROAD 


CAMP     UNIT     LAYOUTS 


""MO 


1 1     WAV     aOAD  -^ 

XTT^ 


■(  \ 


^ 


iii 


o^ 


©.i 


c;r^:: 


M 


2    WAY    ROAD 


^,.^:^  ::^v-WL 


O 


I   WAY    ROAD  - 


PLATE    XXVII 


91 


