"The  Cane  Creek 
Cookbook 


7  10 


Cane  Creek  'Baptist  Church 
Orange  County,  MC 

TstaBCisfiecC 1789 


C641.5 
C221G 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

PRESENTED  BY 

itanaWbodRagland 

Library  Fund 


C641.5 
C221g 


C04I.5 


Introduction 


The  Cane  Creek  community  is  nestled  in  the  center  of  Orange 
County,  North  Carolina.  For  over  200  years,  Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church 
has  served  as  a  focal  point  of  the  community.  A  picture  of  tranquillity, 
Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church  is  surrounded  by  rolling  hills  and  sprawling 
farmland.  Still  an  active  dairy  farming  community,  some  of  the  farms  have 
been  in  the  same  families  for  more  than  five  generations. 

Many  changes  have  taken  place  in  our  community  during  recent 
years.  New  families  have  moved  into  the  area.  "The  store"  is  now  an  auto 
repair  garage,  and  bicyclists  come  in  droves  to  cruise  the  curves  and  hills 
of  Dairyland  and  Orange  Grove  Roads.  Through  all  of  the  changes,  the 
people  of  our  community  have  clung  strongly  to  three  guiding  principals: 
work  hard,  love  the  land,  and  worship  God. 

Throughout  the  history  of  Cane  Creek,  meals  around  tables  have 
served  an  important  role  in  bonding  us  together—as  families,  as  a  church, 
and  as  a  community.  This  cookbook  is  a  celebration  of  the  love  and 
community  spirit  shared  around  those  tables. 

Without  the  contribution  of  many  people,  this  cookbook  would  not 
have  been  possible.  The  recipes  in  the  book  are  a  collection  of  favorite 
dishes  submitted  by  the  members  of  Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church,  their 
families  and  friends. 

The  pictures  used  on  the  divider  pages  were  provided  by  Ed  Johnson 
and  Quentin  Patterson.  The  pictures  are  of  scenes  in  our  community.  The 
sketch  on  the  title  page  was  done  in  1975  by  Tom  Patterson  from  an  old 
photograph  of  the  old  church  building.  The  drawing  on  the  cover  is  of  the 
present  church  building  and  was  sketched  by  Carroll  Lassiter  in  1990. 
Computer  assistance  for  this  cookbook  was  provided  by  Chris  Gambill. 

We  wish  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  everyone  who 
contributed  to  the  success  of  this  special  cookbook. 

Pat  Griggs  and  Joy  Gambill 

Editors 


CV_ 


CANE  CREEK  BAPTIST  CHURCH: 
A  BRIEF  HISTORICAL  SKETCH 

Submitted  by  Edward  Johnson 
August,  1992 

This  year  marks  the  two  hundred  and  third  anniversary  of  the 
founding  of  Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church.  Our  church  was  founded  in 
August,  1789  when  nine  settlers  came  together  as  trustees  to  buy  an  acre  of 
land  for  a  meeting  house.  It  is  the  oldest  Baptist  church  in  Orange  County 
and  one  of  just  a  handful  of  churches  to  have  been  in  continuous  existence 
for  over  200  years. 

Cane  Creek's  first  pastor  was  Thomas  Cate,  the  son  of  a  Quaker 
shoemaker  who  had  migrated  to  North  Carolina  from  his  birthplace  in 
Virginia.  He  received  his  religious  training  at  the  Haw  River  Baptist 
Church  near  Bynum.  This  church  was  an  "arm"  of  North  Carolina's 
original  "Separate"  Baptist  Church  located  at  Sandy  Creek  in  Guilford 
County. 

Students  of  religious  history  credit  Sandy  Creek's  pastor,  Shubal 
Stearns,  with  being  the  founder,  in  1755,  of  a  church,  and  later  an 
Association,  that  led  directly  to  the  formation  of  the  Southern  Baptist 
Convention. 

Although  the  Cane  Creek  Meeting  House  was  built  in  1789  by  a 
Baptist,  the  congregation  did  not  affiliate  with  a  Baptist  Association  until 
1807.  The  delay  may  well  have  been  caused  by  early  doctrinal  differences 
between  the  dynamic  outreaching  Separate  Baptists  and  the  more 
Calvinistic  Particular  Baptists  to  the  east.  In  this  year  Cane  Creek  cast  its 
lot  with  the  Sandy  Creek  Association  and  became  an  active  participant  in 
association  affairs. 

Our  early  Church  records  were  destroyed  by  fire  in  1829.  The  earliest 
Sandy  Creek  records  are  preserved  in  a  centennial  history  written  in  1859 
by  George  Purefoy,  one  of  our  former  pastors.  His  history  indicates  a 
congregation  of  45  individuals  at  Cane  Creek  in  1816.  A  rough  estimate 
would  divide  these  into  15  men,  20  women  and  10  slaves. 

After  Thomas  Cate,  the  next  pastor  whose  identity  is  known  was 
Stephen  Pleasant.  He  had  formerly  preached  at  a  Church  in  Caswell 
County  but  had  been  dismissed  by  his  congregation  when  he  objected  to 
their  anti-mission  feelings.    At  Cane  Creek  he  found  a  congregation  that 


Ill 


shared  his  support  for  the  mission  cause.    Pleasant  remained  as  pastor  at 
Cane  Creek  until  1839. 

While  in  Orange  County  Pleasant  formed  the  Beulah  Association,  and 
Cane  Creek  left  Sandy  Creek  to  become  a  member.  For  its  entire  stay  in 
the  Beulah  Association  (1837-1870),  Cane  Creek  was  its  largest  church 
with  a  membership  of  over  200.  When  the  Mt.  Zion  Association  was 
formed  in  1870,  Cane  Creek  became  a  charter  member  and  has  remained  a 
member  ever  since. 

Beginning  with  J.  C.  Wilson  (pastor  from  1852  to  1856),  all  of  Cane 
Creek's  pastors  have  received  formal  theological  training,  most  being 
graduates  of  Wake  Forest.  Besides  Cate  and  Pleasant,  other  prominent 
Cane  Creek  pastors  include:  George  Purefoy  (pastor  from  1839  to  1852), 
author  of  many  tracts,  articles,  and  books  and  described  as  one  of  the  best 
educated  North  Carolinians  of  his  time;  F.  M  Jordan,  who  after  his  stay  at 
Cane  Creek  went  on  to  pastor  churches  in  some  of  North  Carolina's  larger 
cities  such  as  Greensboro  and  Raleigh  leaving  a  legacy  as  a  builder  of  fine 
new  church  buildings;  and  J.  F.  McDuffie,  who  led  the  congregation  in  the 
construction  and  operation  of  Orange  Grove  Academy,  a  multi-grade 
school,  during  his  stay  at  Cane  Creek  (1896-1907).  This  Academy 
continued  in  existence  until  tax  supported  public  schools  were  constructed 
across  the  county  around  1910. 

The  original  meeting  house  was  a  rough  and  drafty  log  building  about 
25  feet  wide  by  35  feet  long  with  a  dirt  floor  and  crude  wooden  benches.  It 
was  located  on  a  ridge  overlooking  Cane  Creek  about  a  half  mile  northwest 
of  the  present  building.  Tradition  has  it  that  the  original  rough  log 
meeting  house  was  replaced  at  that  spot  by  a  larger  and  more  comfortable 
building. 

In  1852,  the  congregation  bought  the  present  tract  on  Orange  Grove 
Road  and  built  its  third  church  house.  This  served  until  the  late  1880's 
when  a  much  larger  building  was  erected.  This  old  wooden  church  was 
attended  by  many  of  the  older  members  of  the  present  congregation.  The 
present  sanctuary  was  build  in  1949-1950  and  an  education  wing  was 
added  shortly  thereafter. 

Over  the  years,  Cane  Creek  has  been  the  mother  church  for  many 
other  Baptist  churches.  Among  these  are  Antioch,  Mars  Hill,  Cross  Roads, 
Moore's  Chapel  in  Saxapahaw  and  Hickory  Grove.  In  its  200  years  over 
2000  people  have  been  listed  on  the  rolls  of  Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church. 


Dkjiliz*d  by  the  Internet  Archive 
In  2012  with  funding  Irom 


)r  UNG-GH  for  Duke  University's 


http://archive.org/det; 


"tfte  Cane  Creek 
Cookbook 


The  Ohi Church,  "BuiCt  in  1884 


December,  1992 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


APPETIZERS,  BEVERAGES  &  RELISHES 1 

SOUPS  &  SAL  ADS 9 

MAIN  DISHES 23 

BREADS  &  ROLLS 47 

DESSERTS.. 57 

CANDIES  &  COOKIES Ill 

COOKING  FOR  A  CROWD 123 

WISDOM  FROM  THE  PAST 133 

TABLES 139 

INDEX 143 


My  Favorite  Recipes 


Name  of  Recipe 

Page: 

Appetizers,  "Beverages 

& 
lleCisfies 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  DIP 

4  oz.  Low  Fat  Cottage  Cheese  1/2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  tbsp.  Fat  Free-Cholesterol  1  small  diced  onion 

Free  Mayonnaise 

Mix  well.  Serve  with  chips.  Serves  8. 

Evelyn  Patterson 


CRAB  MEAT  DIP 

1  (8  oz.)  cream  cheese  1/4  cup  chopped  onion 

1  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  can  crab  meat  (small) 

Heat  for  20  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Phyllis  Padgett 


DILLDD? 

1/3  cup  sour  cream  1/2  tsp.  dill  weed 

1/3  cup  mayonnaise  1  tbsp.  parsley  flakes 

1  tsp.  seasoned  salt 

Mix  well.  This  is  better  if  made  several  hours  before  serving. 

Pat  Griggs 

VEGETABLE  DIP 

2/3  cup  Hellman's  mayonnaise  1  tbsp.  parsley  flakes 

2/3  cup  sour  cream  1  tbsp.  Beau  Monde 

1  tbsp.  dried  onion  1  tsp.  dill  weed 

Mix  well.  Best  to  set  overnight. 

Karen  Sexton 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


LEMON  CREAM  DIP  FOR  FRUIT 

2  eggs  1/2  cup  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/3  cup  Real  Lemon  juice  1  cup  (1/2  pint)  whipping  cream 

1  tbsp.  cornstarch  whipped 

In  bowl  beat  together  eggs,  1/2  cup  sugar  and  Real  Lemon.  In  saucepan, 
combine  remaining  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Stir  in  water.  Cook  and  stir 
until  thickened,  remove  from  heat.  Gradually  beat  in  egg  mixture.  Cook 
over  low  heat  and  stir  until  slightly  thickened.  Add  vanilla.  Cool 
mixture,  fold  in  whipped  cream.  Serve  with  fresh  fruit.  Refrigerate 
leftovers. 

Pam  Kirk 

"REAL" SALSA 

4  ripe  tomatoes,  chopped  1/4  cup  chopped  cilantro  (or  2 

1  large  white  onion,  chopped  fine  tbsp.  dried  leaves) 

1  tsp.  ground  cumin  powder  1/4  cup  olive  oil 

1  hot  chili  pepper,  minced*  Salt,  pepper  &  pinch  of  sugar 

Juice  of  one  small  lemon 

Mix  tomatoes  and  onions,  pour  olive  oil  over  and  mix  well.  Add  hot 
peppers  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  rest  of  ingredients.  Let  set  at  room 
temperature  for  one  hour  before  serving  with  corn  chips. 

*  Adjust  the  hot  pepper  to  taste.  This  makes  a  "medium  hot"  salsa. 

Nancy  Holt 

DRIED  BEEF  BALL 

1  (8  oz.)  cream  cheese  room  1/2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

temperature  1/4  tsp.  Accent 

1  small  jar  dried  beef  Optional:  2  spring  onions 

Dice  beef  and  onions  in  food  processor.  Mix  remaining  ingredients 
together.  Form  into  ball.  Store  in  refrigerator. 

Susan  Nichols 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


SAUSAGE  CHEESE  BALLS 

3  cups  bisquick  1/2  pound  grated  sharp  cheese 

1  pound  hot  sausage 

Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Form  into  small  balls.  Place  on  cookie  sheet 
and  bake  until  done.  Cook  about  15  minutes  at  350  degrees.  Makes 
about  75  balls. 

Billie  Johnson 

HAMBURGER  DORITO  BAKE 

Doritoes  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1/2  pound  hamburger  Jalapeno  peppers  (optional) 

Crumble  hamburger  in  pan  and  drain  well.  Spread  Doritoes  in  square 
pan.  Spread  hamburger  over  Doritoes.  Sprinkle  cheese  over  hamburger. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  until  cheese  melts. 

Glenda  Satterfield 

RANCH  PRETZELS 

2  pounds  hard  pretzels  1  package  Hidden  Valley  Ranch 

(broken  in  pieces)  Dressing  Mix 

1  cup  oil  1/2  tsp.  garlic  powder 

1/2  tsp.  lemon  and  pepper  spice 

Mix  oik  ranch  dressing,  garlic  powder  and  lemon/pepper  spice  in 
measuring  cup.  Spread  pretzels  in  roasting  pan  and  drizzle  dressing 
mixture  over  pretzels.  Stir.  Bake  at  200  degrees  for  1  hour,  stirring 
every  15  minutes. 

Shirley  Rishel 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


PICKLED  MUSHROOMS 

1  pound  fresh  mushrooms  2  bay  leaves 

1  1/4  cups  cider  vinegar  8  celery  leaves 

1/3  cup  water  3  sprigs  parsley  or  1  tsp. 

1  tbsp.  instant  minced  dried  parsley 

onion 
8  peppercorns  or  1/2  tsp. 

pepper 

Wash  and  pat  mushrooms  dry.  Put  other  ingredients  in  saucepan  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  5  minutes.  Pour  over 
mushrooms.  Pack  in  jar  and  cover  with  tight  lid.  Refrigerate  at  least  24 
hours. 

Leta  Bradshaw 


PARTY  HAM  BISCUITS 

1  stick  margarine,  softened  1/2  pound  Swiss  cheese 
3  tbsp.  mustard  (grated  or  sliced) 

3  tbsp.  poppy  seed  1/2  pound  ham  chopped 
1  medium  onion  grated  (use  light  sliced  ham) 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  Soft  margarine  for  bread 
3  packs  (12  each)  party    rolls 

Mix  first  5  ingredients  well.  Split  rolls  and  spread  one  side  lightly  with 
margarine.  On  other  side  spread  1/3  of  poppy  seed  mix.  Top  with  1/3  of 
cheese  and  1/3  of  ham.  Put  back  in  tin  foil  pans  and  bake  in  400  degree 
oven  for  about  10  minutes  till  cheese  is  melted.  Can  be  made  ahead  and 
frozen.  Thaw  and  bake  as  above. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 

FROZEN  PUNCH 

6  cups  sugar  1  large  can  pineapple  juice 

9  cups  water  1  bottle  apple  juice 

1  large  can  orange  juice  3  large  bottles  ginger  ale 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


Boil  sugar  and  water  together  5  minutes.  Cool.  Add  juices,  mix  well  and 
freeze  until  needed.  This  amount  will  serve  50  people  and  is  best  served 
before  it  completely  thaws.  Add  ginger  ale  at  serving  time. 

Glenda  Satterfield 

LEMON  PUNCH 

Ginger  ale  12  ounce  can  frozen  lemonade 

2  packages  lemon  Kool-Aid  46  ounce  can  pineapple  juice 

2  cups  sugar  (more  or  less) 

Dissolve  sugar  and  Kool-Aid  in  small  amount  of  warm  water.  Add 
thawed  lemonade  and  pineapple  juice.  Stir  well.  Add  water  to  make  one 
gallon  of  punch.  Add  ginger  ale  just  before  serving.  The  Kool-Aid  mix 
can  be  frozen  to  slushy  state  if  desired. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 

LIME  PUNCH 

1  package  lemon/lime  Kool-  2  quarts  water 

Aid  2  liters  ginger  ale 

1  tall  can  pineapple  juice 
1  cup  sugar 

Mix  Kool-Aid  with  sugar.  Add  water.  Add  pineapple  in  gallon  jug.  Add 
1  liter  of  ginger  ale  to  each  gallon  of  punch  right  before  serving. 

Joy  Gambill 

WMU  PUNCH 

1  gallon  sherbet  (any  flavor)  1/2  gallon  vanilla  ice  cream 

2  quarts  ginger  ale 

The  above  ingredients  will  make  one  punch  bowl  of  delicious  punch. 

Joy  Gambill 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


RELISH 

4  quarts  green  tomatoes  3  quarts  vinegar 

4  quarts  cabbage  2  cups  salt 

24  green  peppers  2  quarts  water 

2  quarts  onions  1/2  cup  mustard  seed 

9  cups  sugar  1/4  cup  celery  seed 

Chop  first  four  ingredients  and  put  in  large  container  (covered)  and  let 

soak  overnight.  Drain  and  add  the  remaining  ingredients.  Boil  for  5 

minutes.  Pack  in  jars.  Process  for  20  minutes  at  10  pounds  pressure. 

Yields  approximately  16  quarts. 

Peggy  Hamlett 

CHOW  CHOW 

1/2  gallon  chopped  red  and  1  large  red  sweet  pepper, 

green  tomatoes  chopped 

1  quart  chopped  cabbage  2  hot  peppers  (or  to  taste) 

1  quart  chopped  onions  1  quart  vinegar 

4  large  green  sweet  peppers,  1  tsp.  salt 

chopped  4  cups  sugar  (I  try  2  1/2  first) 

Chop  and  mix  all  vegetables.  Bring  vinegar,  salt  and  sugar  to  boil.  Add 
vegetables  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Simmer  till  thick.  Stir  often.  Will  make 
about  7  or  8  pints  of  chow  chow. 

*If  you  like  your  chow  chow  hot,  add  more  pepper.  If  you  like  it 
sweet,  add  more  sugar  also. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


DILL  PICKLES 


Make  brine  of: 
1  cup  canning  salt 
3  quarts  water 
1  quart  vinegar 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 


Bring  to  a  full  boil.  Put  in  bottom  of  each  jar:  pinch  of  alum,  2  heads  of 
dill  (or  1  tsp.  dill  seed),  1  pod  hot  pepper,  1  grape  leaf,  and  1  clove 
garlic.  Pack  washed  cucumbers  in  jar  and  cover  with  hot  brine.  Seal.  Let 
set  for  about  4  weeks  before  eating.  Put  in  refrigerator  to  make  crisp. 

Laura  Felmet  Smith 

SWEET  PICKLES 

1  to  1  1/2  pounds  pickling  1  gallon  vinegar 

salt  10  cent  box  pickling  spices 

2  gallons  cucumbers  Sugar 
2/3  box  alum 

First  day;  Wash  cucumbers.  Dissolve  salt  in  hot  water  and  pour  over 
cucumbers.  Let  stand  24  hours. 

Second  day:  Pour  off  salt  water.  Dissolve  2/3  box  Alum  in  water  and 
pour  over  cucumbers.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  stand  24  hours. 

Third  day:  Pour  off  alum  water.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  stand 
another  24  hours. 

Fourth  day:  Boil  1  gallon  vinegar  and  spice  (in  a  bag)  for  20  minutes.  I 
add  stick  cinnamon  and  whole  cloves  to  the  spices.  Add  a  small  amount 
of  green  color  to  vinegar  if  desired.  Pour  over  cucumbers  and  let  stand 
nine  days. 

After  nine  days,  take  cucumbers  out  of  vinegar,  cut  in  pieces  ready  to 

serve.  Pack  in  glass  jar  or  crock,  layer  of  cucumbers  and  layer  of  sugar. 

Be  sure  to  cover  with  sugar.  Do  not  use  any  of  the  vinegar  because  it 

soaks  out  of  the  cucumbers.  Sugar  is  very  important.  Use  layers  of  each 

until  jar  is  filled.  Cover  jar  but  do  not  seal. 

Chapel  Hill  Cookbook 

by  Mrs.  Johnny  Edwards  Submitted  by:  Patsy  Ray 


Appetizers,  Beverages  &  Relishes 8_ 

Notes 


Soups 

& 
SaCacCs 


Soups  &  Salads 


CHILLED  CARROT  SOUP 


1  pound  carrots 

2  tbsp.  butter 

2  (13  3/4  oz.)  cans  chicken  broth 
1  medium  onion,  chopped 
1  bay  leaf 


1  3/4  tsp.  salt 
1/8  tsp.  white  pepper 
1/2  cup  fresh  orange  juice 
1  cup  light  cream 
Parsley  sprigs 


Scrape  carrots  and  chop  into  small  pieces.  Melt  butter  in  large  saucepan, 
add  chicken  broth,  carrots,  onion,  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper.  Bring  to  a 
boil.  Cover  and  simmer  until  carrots  are  tender,  about  30  to  35  minutes. 
Puree  carrot  mixture  in  blender.  Cool.  Add  orange  juice  and  cream. 
Chill  at  least  6  hours.  Serve  in  chilled  bowls  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley.  Can  be  served  hot  also.  Serves  6. 

Daphne  Andrews 

MICROWAVE  CHILI 


1  pound  lean  ground  beef 

1/2  cup  chopped  onion 

1/2  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1/4  cup  chopped  celery 

1  (15  oz.)  can  pinto,  chili,  or 

kidney  beans 
1  (16  oz.)  can  stewed  tomatoes 


1  (6  oz.)  can  tomato  paste 
1  tsp.  beef  bouillon  granules, 

dissolved  in  3/4  cup  water 
1  tbsp.  chili  powder 
1/2  tsp.  ground  cumin  (optional) 
1/2  tsp.  salt 
1  small  bay  leaf 


Use  4  quart  cooker.  Crumble  meat  and  arrange  in  a  circle  around 
outside  edge  of  cooker.  Spoon  onion,  green  pepper  and  celery  into  the 
center.  Cover.  Microcook  on  High  5  to  7  minutes  or  until  meat  is  brown. 
Drain.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Cover.  Microcook  on  High  5 
minutes.  Stir.  Cover.  Reduce  to  Medium  (50%)  and  microcook  25  to  30 
minutes.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Serves  4. 

Jenny  Bryant 


Soups  &  Salads  10 


NEW  ENGLAND  CLAM  CHOWDER 

2  dozen  medium  quahog  clams         1/2  cup  chopped  onion 

or  2  (7  1/2)  oz.  cans  clams         2  cups  milk  (or  substitute  Half  & 
or  1  pint  shucked  clams  Half) 

1/4  lb.  salt  pork,  minced  1  cup  light  cream 

4  c.  diced,  peeled  potatoes  3  tbsp.  flour 

1  1/2  tsp.  salt 

If  using  clams  in  shell,  place  in  large  kettle.  Add  1  cup  water.  Cover  and 
bring  to  boiling.  Reduce  heat.  Steam  just  till  shells  open,  5-10  minutes. 
Remove  clams  from  shell. 

Dice  clams.  Strain  liquid  reserving  1/2  cup.  Fry  salt  pork  in  strips 
until  crisp.  Remove  bits  of  pork;  reserve.  Add  1/2  cup  clam  liquid,  1  1/2 
cups  water,  potatoes,  onion  (chopped  celery  and  mushrooms  optional)  to 
fat.  Cook  covered  till  potatoes  are  tender,  15-20  minutes. 

Add  clams,  1  3/4  cups  milk  and  cream.  Blend  remaining  milk  and 
flour.  Stir  into  chowder.  Cook  and  stir  till  boiling.  Add  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper;  top  with  crumbled  salt  pork.  Makes  6  servings. 

Lance  Kress 

FRENCH  ONION  SOUP 

4  medium  onions  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tbsp.  butter  Rounds  of  toast 

1  quart  brown  stock  Grated  parmesan  cheese 

1/2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Slice  onions  thin  and  brown  in  butter.  Add  broth,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
salt  and  pepper  and  simmer  until  tender.  Pour  soup  in  casserole. 
Arrange  toast  on  top  of  soup,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  place 
under  broiler  until  cheese  melts  and  browns.  Serves  4. 

Martha  Kirk 


Soups  &  Salads 11 


HOT  AND  SOUR  SOUP 

3  cans  chicken  broth  1/4  tsp.  black  pepper* 

1/2  pound  lean  pork  (optional)  1/4  pound  tofu 

1/2  pound  sliced  mushrooms  1/4  cup  cold  water 

1/2  cup  sliced  bamboo  shoots  3  tbsp.  cornstarch 

5  tbsp.  vinegar  1  egg  beaten 

3  tbsp.  soy  sauce  2  tsp.  sesame  oil 

1/2  tsp.  red  pepper  flakes  1/4  cup  chopped  green  onion 

Slice  meat  in  thin  strips  and  cook  in  small  amount  of  water,  about  30 
minutes.  Add  broth,  mushrooms,  shoots,  vinegar,  soy  sauce  and  peppers. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  simmer  30  minutes.  Add  tofu.  Mix  water  and 
cornstarch  and  add,  simmer  2  minutes.  Just  before  ready  to  serve,  add 
egg  slowly  to  boiling  soup.  Stir  once  or  twice.  Add  drop  of  oil  and 
onions  in  serving  bowls. 

♦Adjust  pepper  to  personal  taste. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP 

Potatoes  (peeled  and  cubed)  2  tbsp.  flour 

Salt  and  pepper  2  cups  milk 

2  tbsp.  margarine  2  onions  (sliced) 

1  tbsp.  parsley  (optional) 

Cook  onions  and  potatoes  together  until  tender.  Pour  off  some  of  the 
water.  Melt  margarine,  add  flour,  slowly  stir  in  milk  over  medium  heat 
and  add  to  potatoes.  Simmer  for  1 5  minutes.  Add  bacon  bits  or  shredded 
cheese  (if  desired). 

Betty  Holmes 


Soups  &  Salads  12 


BLUEBERRY  SALAD 

2  small  boxes  concord  grape  jello     1  cup  blueberries 

1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

Dissolve  jello  in  1  1/2  cups  hot  water.  Drain  pineapple  and  blueberries. 

Add  to  jello  and  let  chill. 

Topping: 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  (8  oz.)  package  cream  cheese 
1/2  cup  sugar 

Combine  ingredients  and  layer  over  chilled  jello. 

Karen  Sexton 

BROCCOLI  SALAD 

2  heads  broccoli  Sauce: 

1  medium  red  onion  1  cup  Hellman's  light 
1  pkg.  salted  sunflower  seeds  mayonnaise 

1  cup  raisins  1/3  cup  sugar 

1  pound  bacon  cooked  very  2  tbsp.  white  vinegar 
crisp,  crumbled 

Cut  broccoli  into  flowerets,  chop  onion;  mix  all  items  together.  Pour 
sauce  over  other  ingredients.  Refrigerate  at  least  2  hours  before  serving. 

Mary  Lin  Truelove 

BROCCOLI  SALAD 

1  bunch  broccoli,  washed  12  slices  of  bacon  (cooked 
and  diced  (discard  tough  and  crumbled) 

parts  of  stalk)  1  cup  sunflower  seeds  (I  use 

1  onion  chopped  fine  (I  use  toasted,  salted  ones) 

green  onion) 


Soups  &  Salads 13 


Toss  above  ingredients  together. 

Dressing: 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tbsp.  vinegar 
1/3  cup  sugar 

Mix  and  let  set  2  to  3  hours  or  over  night.  Toss  all  together  and  serve. 

Billie  Johnson 


BROCCOLI  &  CAULIFLOWER  MARINATE 

4  stalks  fresh  broccoli  2  tsp.  dry  mustard 

8  large  fresh  mushrooms,  sliced       1  tsp.  salt 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  1/2  cup  vinegar 

3  ribs  celery,  chopped  1  1/2  cup  vegetable  oil 

1  head  cauliflower,  broken  1  small  onion,  grated 

into  flowerets  2  tbsp.  poppy  seed 
1  cup  sugar 

Remove  flowerets  from  broccoli.  Cut  into  bite  size  pieces.  Combine 
vegetables.  Toss  lightly.  Combine  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  well  and 
pour  over  vegetables  Chill  at  least  3  hours.  Serves  10  to  12. 

Joy  Gambill 


Soups  &  Salads 1 4 


CHICKEN  SALAD 

1  (3  1/2  to  4  pound)  chicken  1  cup  chopped  sweet  pickle 

cooked  and  ground  coarsely  mayonnaise 

1  1/2  cups  broth  (more  if  needed)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

3  large  boiled  eggs,  mashed  1  tbsp.  white  vinegar,  if  needed 

1  cup  diced  celery 

Cool  broth  completely  and  skim  off  all  grease.  Warm  broth  until  it  will 
mix  well. 

Mix  together  ground  chicken,  eggs,  celery  and  pickles.  Add  broth 
to  mixture  to  make  it  at  least  1/2  as  moist  as  the  finished  mixture  will 
be.  Add  mayonnaise,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  added  zest  is  needed, 
add  white  vinegar. 

"I  remember  as  a  small  child  my  mother  making  it  this  way,  and  so  do 
I." 

Rebecca  Crawford 

COCA-COLA  JELLO  SALAD 

2  (3  oz.)  packages  black  cherry        1  large  can  (seedless)  black 

jello  cherries 

1  large  can  crushed  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

pineapple  2  small  coca-colas 

Drain  juice  from  cherries  and  pineapple.  Add  enough  water  to  make  2 
cups  of  liquid.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Pour  over  jello  to  dissolve,  then  add  coca- 
cola,  fruits  and  nuts.  Refrigerate  until  it  sets. 

Betty  Dodson 

CRANBERRY  SALAD 

8  oz.  can  crushed  pineapple  1/4  cup  chopped  celery 

1  (3  oz.)  package  raspberry  1/4  cup  chopped  nuts 

gelatin 
16  oz.  can  whole  cranberry 
sauce 


Soups  &  Salads 15 


Drain  pineapple,  saving  juice.  Add  water  to  make  1  1/4  cup  liquid.  In 
saucepan,  heat  liquid  to  boil,  remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  gelatin,  then  stir 
in  cranberry  sauce.  Cool  in  refrigerator  until  thick,  then  stir  in  celery 
and  nuts. 

Lucy  Fort 

MOTHER'S  CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  cups  hot  water  2  boxes  black  cherry  jello 

1  1/2  cups  sugar  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  pound  fresh  cranberries  1  can  crushed  pineapple  (large) 

Boil  water,  sugar  and  cranberries  until  berries  begin  to  split.  Remove 
from  heat  and  add  jello,  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  pecans  and  crushed 
pineapple.  Chill  till  firm. 

Pat  Griggs 

FRUIT  SALAD 

1  large  can  sliced  peaches  1  large  can  maraschino  cherries, 
1  large  box  instant  vanilla  drained 

pudding  1  large  can  fruit  cocktail, 
1  large  can  pineapple  chunks,  drained 

drained  3  bananas 
1  large  can  mandarin  oranges, 

drained 

Night  before  serving:  combine  peaches  with  pudding  mix.  Drain  other 
fruits  and  stir  in.  Just  before  serving:  slice  bananas,  dip  in  lemon  juice 
and  mix  with  other  fruit. 

Lila  Kirk 


Soups  &  Salads 16 


LIME  SALAD 

2  packages  lime  jello  (small)  1  (8  oz.)  package  cream  cheese 

2  cups  water  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

2  cups  tiny  marshmallows  1  cup  chopped  pecans 
1  cup  cold  water 

Cook  2  cups  water  and  marshmallows  in  a  saucepan  over  medium  heat 
until  marshmallows  melt.  Add  jello  and  dissolve  thoroughly.  Put  cold 
water  and  cream  cheese  in  blender  and  whip  until  blended.  Pour  all 
ingredients  into  the  blender  and  whip. 

Spread  pineapple  in  an  8x13  baking  dish,  sprinkle  pecans  over  the 
pineapple.  Pour  jello  mixture  over  the  pecans.  Cover  the  mixture  with 
saran  wrap  and  chill  until  firm. 

Pat  Griggs 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

20  ounce  can  crushed  pineapple       2  cups  buttermilk 
1  tbsp.  sugar  8  oz.  Cool  Whip 

1  (6  oz.)  jello  (any  flavor)  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Combine  sugar  and  pineapple  in  saucepan;  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring 
occasionally.  Remove  from  stove.  Add  jello;  stir  until  dissolved.  Cool. 
Add  buttermilk  and  mix  well.  Fold  in  Cool  Whip.  Add  pecans,  pour  into 
12x8x2  inch  dish.  Sprinkle  top  with  chopped  pecans.  Chill  until  set.  Cut 
into  squares  and  serve. 

Dale  Andrews 


Soups  &  Salads 17 


PRETZEL  SALAD 

2  cups  crushed  pretzels  3/4  cup  oleo  (melted) 

(not  too  fine)  3  tbsp.  sugar 

Mix  together.  Put  into  8x10  dish.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  8-10  minutes. 
Cool. 

Second  Layer: 

1  (8  oz.)  package  cream  cheese 

1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  cool  whip 

Mix  together  cream  cheese  and  sugar.  Fold  in  cool  whip.  Spread  over 
pretzel  mixture. 

Third  Layer: 

2  small  or  1  large  package(s)  strawberry  jello 

2  cups  boiling  water 

2  (10  oz.)  packages  frozen  strawberries 

Stir  until  dissolved.  Set  in  refrigerator  for  10  minutes.  Pour  over  cream 
cheese  mixture.  Keep  in  refrigerator  until  ready  to  serve. 

Vicki  Felmet  McGee 

SALMON  SALAD 

1  (15  1/2  oz.)  can  pink  or  red  1/8  tsp.  pepper 

salmon,  drained  &  flaked  2  tbsp.  chopped  dill  pickle 

1  tsp.  prepared  mustard  6  medium  tomatoes  peeled 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  mayonnaise 

2  hard  cooked  eggs,  chopped  paprika 

2  tbsp.  mayonnaise  leaf  lettuce 

Combine  salmon,  mustard,  lemon  juice,  eggs,  mayonnaise,  pepper  and 
dill  pickle  in  a  medium  mixing  bowl,  stirring  well.  Cover  and  refrigerate 
until  chilled.  Cut  each  tomato  into  8  wedges,  cutting  to,  but  not  through 
base  of  tomato.  Spread  wedges  apart  to  form  shell.  Spoon  salmon  salad 
into  tomato  shells.  Top  with  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. 
Sene  on  lettuce  lined  plates.  Serves  6. 

Daphne  Andrews 


Soups  &  Salads 


18 


1  cup  grated  coconut 
1  cup  cottage  cheese 
1  cup  sour  cream 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 


SEVEN  CUP  SALAD 

1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

1  cup  fruit  cocktail 

1  cup  miniature  marshmallows 


In  large  bowl,  combine  all  ingredients.  Cover  and  refrigerate  for  at  least 
24  hours. 

Marybelle  Kirk 


SEVEN  LAYER  SALAD 


Layer  of  lettuce 
Layer  of  cucumber 
Layer  of  onion 


Layer  of  peas  (drained) 
Layer  of  cheese  (grated) 
Layer  of  mayonnaise 


Chill  overnight,  then  toss.  Top  with  bacon  bits. 


Pant  Kirk 


SLAW 


1  gallon  chopped  cabbage 
1  1/2  cups  vinegar 
1  1/2  cups  sugar 


1  1/2  cups  tomato  catsup 
Salt  &  pepper  to  taste 
Hot  sauce  to  taste 


Chop  cabbage  until  very  fine.  Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly  and 
refrigerate.  This  can  be  stored  in  the  refrigerator  for  several  weeks. 

Pat  Griggs 

FREEZER  SLAW 


1  medium  cabbage  head 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  carrot 

1  green  pepper 


1  tsp.  mustard  seed 
1  tsp.  celery  seed 
Dressing 


Soups  &  Salads  19 


Chop  or  shred  cabbage.  Add  salt  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Squeeze  all 
brine  from  cabbage.  Add  shredded  carrot,  chopped  green  pepper, 
mustard  seed  and  celery  seed  to  cabbage.  Pour  dressing  over  mixture. 
Pack  in  containers  and  freeze.  Thaw  and  serve. 

Dressing:  In  saucepan,  combine  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  and  1/4 
cup  water.  Boil  mixture  for  one  minute.  Cool  to  lukewarm. 

Diane  Kress 

SOUTHERN  CONGEALED  SALAD 

1  package  orange  jello  1  cup  pecans,  finely  chopped 

1  pint  vanilla  ice  cream  1  small  jar  maraschino  cherries 

2  cups  crushed  pineapple, 

drained 

Dissolve  jello  in  1  cup  boiling  water,  then  add  vanilla  ice  cream, 
pineapple,  pecans,  and  cherries.  Chill. 

Susan  Nichols 

STRAWBERRY  SALAD 

1  (3  oz.)  package  strawberry  1  (8  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese 

jello  1  large  container  cool  whip 

1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple       1/2  cup  chopped  pecans,  optional 

Put  pineapple  in  pan  and  heat  to  boiling.  Pour  dry  jello  in  bowl,  pour  hot 
pineapple  over  dry  jello.  Put  in  refrigerator  until  gel-like,  then  fold  in 
remaining  ingredients,  return  to  refrigerator. 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Soups  &  Salads 20 


STRAWBERRY  SALAD 

1  (3  oz.)  packages  strawberry  1  (8  or  9  oz.)  container  cool  whip 

jello  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  (20  oz.)  can  crushed  pineapple 
1  (8  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese 

Pour  dry  jello  into  bowl.  Put  pineapple  in  pan  and  heat  to  boiling.  Pour 
over  jello  and  mix  well.  Put  in  refrigerator  and  gel  slightly.  Fold  in  other 
ingredients.  Mix  well.  Pour  in  mold.  Chill. 

Ann  Nicholson 

SWEET  PICKLES 

1  quart  hamburger  dill  slices  1/2  cup  vinegar 

(drained)  1  tsp.  mustard  seed 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  celery  seed 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  pour  over  pickle  slices. 

Karen  Sexton 

CELERY  SEED  DRESSING 

1/2  cup  sugar  3  tbsp.  grated  onions 

1  tsp.  dry  mustard  1  cup  oil 

1  tsp.  salt  1/3  cup  vinegar 

2  tsp.  celery  seed 

Put  all  ingredients  in  ajar  with  a  tight  fitting  lid.  Shake  and  mix  well. 
Chill  till  ready  to  use. 

Let  a  Bradshaw 


Soups  &  Salads 21 


BLUE  CHEESE  DRESSING 

2  cups  mayonnaise  1/2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice  1/4  tsp.  pepper 

1  tsp.  white  vinegar  1/4  tsp.  garlic  powder 

1/4  cup  buttermilk  1  (4  oz.)  package  blue  cheese, 

1/2  cup  sour  cream  crumbled 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  blue  cheese  and  mix  well.  Gently  stir  in 
blue  cheese.  Refrigerate  several  hours.  Makes  about  3  cups. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


NUTS 

Nutmeats  are  good  sources  of  protein,  are  high  in  calories  (largely 
monounsaturated  fats),  but  have  no  cholesterol.  The  exceptions  are 
coconut  and  macadamia  nuts,  both  are  unacceptable  high  in  saturated 
fats.  The  following  may  be  used  in  cooking  or  eaten  as  snacks: 

Almonds  Hazelnuts  Pistachio  Nuts 

Brazil  Nuts  Butternuts  Pumpkin  Seeds 

Cashews  Pecans  Sunflower  Seeds 

Chestnuts  Pine  Nuts  Walnuts 


Soups  &  Salads 22_ 

Notes 


Main  TUshes 


■■-::  .     :  ■     "I..:;  ■■■:  ■".■■■,■■ 
■ ■ 


Main  Dishes  23 


BARBECUE  SAUCE  FOR  CHILDREN 

1  stick  butter  2  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tbsp.  vinegar  3/4  cup  water 

1  tsp.  chili  powder  1  tsp.  salt 

3/4  cup  tomato  catsup  Black  pepper  to  taste 

2  small  onions,  chopped 

Simmer  in  heavy  skillet  for  45  minutes.  Pour  sauce  over  chicken  &  cook 
slowly  in  oven  uncovered  for  2  to  3  hours.  Also  good  for  marinating 
chicken  before  grilling. 

Karen  Sexton 


JIFFY  BARBECUE  SAUCE  (GOOD) 

1/2  cup  oil  3  tbsp.  sugar 

3/4  cup  onion,  chopped  3  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

3/4  cup  ketchup  3  tbsp.  prepared  mustard 

3/4  cup  water  2  tbsp.  salt 

1/3  cup  lemon  juice  1/2  tsp.  pepper 

Mix  and  bring  to  full  boil.  Cool.  Stores  well  in  refrigerator. 

Decie  Kenyon 


AMERICAN  HEART  ASSOCIATION  BARBECUE  SAUCE 

1/4  cup  water  3  tbsp.  Worchestershire  sauce 

1/4  cup  vinegar  1  tbsp.  dry  mustard 

2  tbsp.  oil  freshly  ground  black  pepper 

1/2  cup  chili  sauce  or  catsup  2  tbsp.  chopped  onion 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  simmer  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Good  with 
beef,  pork  or  chicken. 

Pat  Griggs 


Main  Dishes  24 


MARINATE  FOR  SHISH  KEBABS 

1/2  cup  Worcestershire  sauce  1/2  tsp.  garlic  powder 

1/2  cup  soy  sauce  1/2  tsp.  onion  salt 

1  cup  cooking  oil  1/2  tsp.  pepper 

Select  tender  lean  beef  and  cut  into  servings  for  shish  kebabs.  Combine 
ingredients  and  pour  over  beef  Marinate  overnight  before  grilling. 

Joy  Gambill 


WHAT'S  IN  THAT  MARINATE? 

2  bottles  of  Paul  Newman  2  tbsp.  prepared  mustard 

Oil  &  Vinegar  Dressing  1  tbsp.  Italian  seasoning 

1  tbsp.  grated  flakes  or  minced  3  tbsp.  chopped  chives  of 
garlic  onion 

1  tsp.  black  pepper  4  chicken  breasts  (skinned) 

1  tsp.  white  pepper 

Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  marinate  chicken  2  hours  before  grilling. 
"I  only  do  two  breasts  for  us  and  store  half  the  mixture  in  one  of  the 
dressing  bottles  and  refrigerate  until  I  need  it.  It  will  keep  for  about  one 
week. " 

Billie  Johnson 


BAKED  CHICKEN  BREASTS 

1  package  dried  beef  1  cup  sour  cream 

4  chicken  breasts  or  8  half  1  can  undiluted  cream  of 

breasts  (deboned)  mushroom  soup 

8  strips  bacon 

Cover  bottom  of  casserole  with  dried  beef.  Wrap  chicken  breast  in  two 
strips  of  bacon  each  (one  piece  for  half  chicken  breast).  Add  sour  cream, 
then  cover  with  mushroom  soup.  Cover  and  bake  for  three  hours  at  375 
degrees.  Uncover  for  last  few  minutes.  Serve. 

Billie  Johnson 


Main  Dishes  25 


CREATE  A  CASSEROLE  (MICROWAVE) 

5  oz.  of  your  favorite  pasta,  1/8  tsp.  garlic  powder  or 

cooked  and  drained  onion  powder 

1  (10  3/4  oz.)  can  cream  soup  1  to  1  1/2  cups  tuna  or  salmon, 
1/2  cup  mayonnaise  shrimp,  chicken,  etc. 

1/2  cup  milk  or  white  wine  Buttered  crumbs,  corn  flake 
1  cup  shredded  cheese  crumbs,  French  fried  onion 

1/2  tsp.  herb  (basil,  thyme,  rings  or  crushed  potato 

dill,  or  oregano)  chips 

Combine  soup  with  mayonnaise  and  liquid  in  casserole.  Add  remaining 
ingredients  except  for  topping.  Cover  with  wax  paper.  Microcook  on 
Medium  High  (70%)  7  to  9  minutes,  stirring  once.  Remove  wax  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  topping.  Microcook,  uncovered  on  Medium  High 
(70%)  1  to  2  minutes. 

Jenny  Bryant 

BETTY'S  CHICKEN 

Chicken  breast  Creamy  Italian  dressing 

Ritz  crackers  (crushed) 

Cut  breast  in  bite  size  pieces  and  remove  skin.  Rinse  in  cold  water  and 
dip  in  Ritz  crackers.  Spray  casserole  with  Pam,  add  chicken.  Pour 
dressing  over  chicken.  Cover  and  bake  at  350  degrees. 

Betty  Holmes 

CRISPY  BAKED  CHICKEN 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise  1/8  tsp.  pepper 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  3  pound  broiler-fryer  chicken 

1/2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  1/3  cups  Italian  bread 
1/8  tsp.  garlic  powder  crumbs 

In  a  small  bowl  combine  the  first  5  ingredients.  Brush  or  coat  chicken 
pieces  on  all  sides  with  mayonnaise  mixture.  Place  the  bread  crumbs  in 
a  large  plastic  food  bag.  Add  chicken  one  piece  at  a  time,  shake  to  coat 
well.  Arrange  chicken  on  a  rack  in  broiler  pan.  Bake  in  425  degree  oven 
for  40  minutes  or  until  golden  brown  and  tender. 

Pat  Griggs 


Main  Dishes  26 


LOW-FAT  BAR-B-QUE  CHICKEN 

6  chicken  breast  halves  with  skin  1/4  cup  Fleishmann's  or  Promise 

and  fat  removed  margarine  (in  container) 

3/4  cup  tomato  catsup  1  heaping  tbsp.  brown  sugar 

1/2  cup  vinegar  Dash  of  garlic  powder 

1/2  cup  Dillard's  Barbecue  sauce  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Boil  above  ingredients  in  sauce  pan  for  a  few  minutes.  Boil  chicken 
until  tender  in  water  with  two  or  three  pieces  of  celery.  Place  chicken 
on  grill  a  few  minutes  if  charcoal  taste  is  desired.  Pour  sauce  over 
chicken  and  cook  in  oven  at  400  degrees  until  it  bubbles. 

Patsy  Ray 

GOLDEN  BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

1  tbsp.  melted  butter  or  1  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

margarine  1/8  tsp.  pepper 

1  tbsp.  sugar  2  chicken  quarters 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
1  tbsp.  mustard 

Combine  first  6  ingredients  in  a  small  bowl;  mix  well.  Place  chicken  in 
a  lightly  greased  square  baking  dish.  Pour  sauce  over  chicken.  Bake, 
uncovered  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes.  Increase  temperature  to  400 
degrees  and  bake  an  additional  10  minutes. 

Susan  Nichols 

CHICKEN  CACCIATORE  (MICROWAVE) 

1  pkg.  chicken  or  turkey  1/2  cup  chopped  onion 

breasts  (approx.  1  1/2  1  tbsp.  sugar,  optional 

pounds)  cut  a  little  larger  1  tsp.  oregano 

than  bite  size  1  tsp.  salt 

1  can  (15  oz.)  tomato  sauce  1  clove  garlic,  finely 
1  jar  (4  1/2  oz.)  sliced  chopped 

mushrooms,  drained  1/4  tsp.  pepper 


Main  Dishes  27 


Arrange  chicken  in  12x8-inch  dish  with  meatier  portions  toward  edge  of 
dish.  Combine  remaining  ingredients,  pour  over  chicken.  Cover  with 
wax  paper.  Cook  at  HIGH  about  15  minutes.  Chicken  should  be  tender. 
Let  stand,  covered,  5  minutes.  Serve,  if  desired,  with  spaghetti. 

Jenny  Bryant 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

1  chicken  (cooked,  deboned  2  cups  chicken  broth 

and  skin  removed)  1  can  cream  of  chicken 

1  small  package  Pepperidge  soup 

Farm  dressing  mix  1  stick  margarine 

Melt  margarine,  add  dressing  mix  (all  except  1  cup  for  topping).  Mix 
and  press  into  baking  dish.  Place  chopped  chicken  on  top  of  dressing. 
Mix  broth  and  soup  and  pour  over  chicken.  Sprinkle  1  cup  of  dressing 
mix  on  top  and  bake  at  350  degrees  about  25  to  30  minutes. 

Barbara  Sykes 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

1  chicken  cooked,  deboned  CRUST: 

1  1/2  cups  chicken  broth 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  1  1/2  cup  Bisquick 

1  stick  margarine  1  1/2  cup  milk 


Place  chicken  in  greased  casserole  dish.  Mix  and  heat  broth,  cream  of 
chicken  soup,  and  margarine.  Pour  over  chicken.  Mix  together  Bisquick 
and  milk.  Pour  over  chicken  mixture  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  40-45 
minutes  until  golden  brown. 

Maiybelle  Kirk 


Main  Dishes  28 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

4  chicken  breasts,  cooked  1  package  Ritz  crackers 

until  tender  1  stick  margarine 

1  small  carton  sour  cream 

1  can  cream  soup 

Cut  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  casserole.  Mix  soup  and 
cream  together  and  spread  over  chickens.  Roll  crackers  and  mix  with 
margarine.  Spread  over  top  of  casserole.  Bake  20  minutes  at  325 
degrees. 

Martha  Kirk 

CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

2  cups  cooked  and  chopped  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

chicken  1  small  can/jar  pimento 

1  can  French  beans,  drained  1  box  Uncle  Ben  wild  rice 
1  can  sliced  water  chestnuts,  (cooked  as  directed) 

slightly  chopped  Salt  if  desired 

1  medium  onion,  chopped  fine  Pepper  as  desired 
1/2  cup  mayonnaise  (low  fat ) 

Cook  rice,  mix  rice  and  all  ingredients  together.  Put  in  casserole.  Cover 
and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  This  freezes  well,  and  the 
mixture  can  be  divided—half  to  cook  and  half  to  freeze  for  later. 

Lucy  Fort 

RITZ  CRACKER  CASSEROLE 

4  chicken  breasts,  cooked  1  package  Ritz  crackers 

until  tender  1  stick  margarine 

1  small  carton  sour  cream 
1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

Cut  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  casserole.  Mix  soup  and  sour 
cream  together  and  spread  over  chicken.  Crush  crackers  and  mix  with 
margarine.  Spread  over  top  of  casserole.  Bake  30  minutes  at  325 
degrees. 

Susan  Nichols 


Main  Dishes  29 


JADE  TREE  CHICKEN 

3  boneless  chicken  breast  halves  1/4  tsp.  salt 

1/4  cup  soy  sauce  1/4  tsp.  ground  red  pepper 

1/4  cup  vegetable  oil  2  cups  broccoli 

2  tsp.  cornstarch  1  cup  sliced  celery 

1/4  tsp.  garlic  powder  1  large  onion,  cut  in  8  pieces 

1/2  tsp.  sugar  (optional)  2  tbsp.  cooking  sherry 

1/4  cup  cold  water 

Make  marinate  of:  2  tbsp.  soy  sauce,  1  tbsp.  oil,  1  tsp.  cornstarch,  garlic, 
sugar,  salt  and  red  pepper.  Cut  chicken  in  bite  size  pieces  and  add  to 
marinate  for  about  20  minutes.  Heat  wok  and  add  1/2  of  oil.  Stir  fry 
broccoli,  celery  and  onions  till  tender  crisp.  Remove.  Add  remaining  oil 
and  heat,  add  chicken  and  stir  till  done  (5-10  minutes).  Mix  sherry, 
water,  remaining  soy  sauce,  cornstarch.  Add  vegetable  and  cornstarch 
mix  to  chicken  and  heat  till  thick.  Serve  over  rice. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 

CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

1  whole  chicken  or  chicken  1  (8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream 

breasts  1  package  of  Ritz  crackers 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  1  stick  margarine 

Cook  and  debone  chicken,  place  in  bottom  of  baking  dish.  Mix  soup  and 
sour  cream,  pour  over  chicken.  Crush  pack  of  crackers  and  pour  over 
chicken.  Melt  one  stick  of  margarine,  pour  over  crackers.  Bake  325 
degrees  till  bubbly. 
Pat  Griggs'  Sister-in-Law  Viola  Deal 

CHICKEN  CRUNCH 

1/2  cup  of  chicken  broth  1  cup  (sauteed)  celery 

2  cans  mushroom  soup  1  (5  oz)  can  water  chestnuts 

3  cups  (chopped)  cooked  chicken  1  (3  oz.)  can  chow  mein  noodles 
1/4  cup  (chopped)  onion 

Saute  onion  and  celery  together.  Blend  both  into  soup.  Add  all  other 
ingredients  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  a  2  quart  casserole  baking  dish. 
Bake  in  oven  at  325  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Serves  8. 

Betty  Dodson 


Main  Dishes 


30 


CHICKEN  AND  RICE  CASSEROLE 


3  cups  diced  cooked  chicken 

2  cups  cooked  rice  (dry  minute 
rice  may  be  substituted) 

4  hard  cooked  eggs  (chopped) 

2  cans  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  1/2  cup  chopped  celery 


1  small  onion  (chopped) 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

2  tbsp.  melted  margarine 


Combine  chicken,  rice,  eggs,  soup,  celery,  onion,  mayonnaise,  lemon 
juice.  Spoon  into  2  quart  casserole.  Combine  bread  crumbs  and 
margarine.  Sprinkle  on  top  of  casserole.  (Can  refrigerate  over  night.) 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes  until  bubbly. 

Decie  Kenyon 

CHICKEN  AND  WILD  RICE 


1  (6  oz.)  box  long  grain  wild 

rice 

2  cups  hot  water 

1  chicken  cut  up  (or  pieces) 
Salt  and  pepper 


1  (10  oz.)  can  cream  of 

mushroom  soup 
1/2  cup  milk 
1/2  cup  slivered  almonds 
1  tsp.  butter  or  margarine 


Combine  contents  of  box  and  water  in  2  1/2  quart  casserole.  Salt  and 
pepper  chicken.  Arrange  on  top  of  rice.  Bake  covered  1  1/4  hours  at  375 
degrees.  Combine  soup  and  milk.  Saute  almonds  in  butter.  When 
casserole  is  done,  pour  soup  over  casserole  and  sprinkle  with  almonds. 
Return  to  oven  uncovered;  bake  until  bubbly. 

Pat  Griggs 

CHICKEN  SALAD 


3  cups  diced  chicken 
2  1/2  cups  diced  celery 
1/2-1  cup  slivered  almonds 
2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
2  tsp.  minced  onions 


1/2  tsp.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  small  can  water  chestnuts 
1  cup  mayonnaise 


Mix  together  ingredients;  pour  into  baking  dish.  Cover  with  cheese  and 
crushed  potato  chips.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Serves  10. 

Karen  Sexton 


Main  Dishes  3 1 


CHICKEN  CORDON  BLEU 

8  chicken  breast  halves  or  8  1  egg  beaten  with  1  tbsp. 
thigh  fillets  skinned  water 

and  deboned  4  tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

1/4  cup  all-purpose  flour,  salt  1/2  cup  chicken  broth 

and  pepper  to  taste,  2  tsp.  cornstarch 

Paprika  to  taste  3/4  cup  light  cream  or  half 

4  slices  Swiss  cheese  and  half 

4  thin  slices  cooked  ham  2  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

Place  each  thigh  or  breast  between  2  layers  of  wax  paper  or  plastic  wrap 
and  pound  with  meat  mallet  or  rolling  pin  to  flatten  slightly.  Combine 
flour,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  in  shallow  dish,  set  aside.  Cut  ham  slice 
and  each  cheese  slice  in  half.  Fold  1/2  ham  slice  and  1/2  cheese  slice 
together  and  place  in  center  of  one  thigh  of  breast  fillet.  Fold  meat 
around  ham  and  cheese.  Enclose  completely  and  secure  with  wooden 
toothpick.  Dip  stuffed  meat  in  beaten  egg,  shake  off  excess,  and  dredge 
in  flour  mixture.  Melt  butter  in  skillet,  add  stuffed  meat  and  saute  until 
browned  on  all  sides.  Add  stock  to  skillet  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Cover, 
lower  heat,  and  simmer  30  to  35  minutes  or  until  chicken  is  tender. 
Remove  chicken  from  skillet,  remove  and  discard  toothpicks  and 
arrange  on  warm  serving  platter.  Blend  cornstarch  with  cream,  stirring 
until  smooth.  Gradually  stir  into  skillet  with  pan  juices  and  cook  over 
low  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  sauce  is  thickened  and  comes  to  a 
boil.  Stir  in  parsley.  Pour  sauce  into  gravy  boat  and  serve  with  chicken. 

Billie  Johnson 


Main  Dishes 


32 


CHICKEN  POT  PIES 


1  medium  onion,  diced 
4  chicken  breasts  cooked 
and  deboned 

1  can  cream  celery  soup 

2  cans  cream  chicken  soup 
1  can  chicken  broth  from 

chicken 


2  cans  veg-all  mixed  vegetables, 

drained 
1  cup  all  purpose  flour 
1  cup  milk 
1  cup  mayonnaise 


Grease  a  9x13x2  pan.  Put  diced  onion  on  the  bottom.  Then  add  chicken 
that  is  cut  up  into  small  pieces.  Mix  the  soups,  broth  and  veg-all  and 
pour  on  top  of  the  layer  of  chicken.  Mix  flour,  milk  and  mayonnaise  and 
pour  on  top.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  to  1  1/2  hours  until  done. 

Paige  Winslow 


CHICKEN  PIE 


1  chicken 

Salt  and  pepper 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 


1  cup  chicken  broth 
1  stick  margarine 
1  1/2  cup  milk 
1  1/2  cup  Bisquick 


Boil  chicken,  debone,  salt  and  pepper.  Take  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
and  stir  in  slowly  1  cup  chicken  broth  until  hot.  Add  1  stick  margarine. 
Pour  mixture  over  chicken.  Add  1  1/2  cup  milk  and  1  1/2  cup  Bisquick. 
Pour  over  rest  and  cook  at  350  degrees  until  brown. 

Lila  Kirk 


CHICKEN  PIE 


1  chicken  (2  to  3  pounds) 

cooked,  deboned  and  cut 
into  pieces 

2  cups  chicken  broth 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
(undiluted) 


1  stick  margarine  (melted) 
1/2  tsp.  black  pepper 
1  cup  self-rising  flour 
1  cup  buttermilk 


Main  Dishes  33 


Place  chicken  in  9x12  baking  dish.  Bring  chicken  broth  and  soup  to  a 
boil.  Remove  from  heat.  Pour  this  over  chicken.  Mix  margarine,  flour 
with  buttermilk.  Pour  over  chicken  mixture.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes.  Brown  at  450  degrees  for  5  to  10  minutes. 

Susan  Trollinger 

CHICKEN  PIE 

1  (3  or  4  pound)  chicken  3/4  cup  of  milk 

1  can  cream  of  celery  soup  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  chicken  broth  3/4  cup  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  black  pepper  3/4  stick  margarine 
1  tsp.  salt 

Place  bite-size  pieces  of  cooked  chicken  in  dish.  Pour  celery  soup  and 
broth  over  chicken.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  melted  margarine  and  milk 
together.  Pour  over  chicken.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Serves 
4-6. 

Dale  Andrews 

OLD  FASHIONED  CHICKEN  PIE 

3  1/2  to  4  pound  chicken  Margarine 

Dumpling  dough  Black  pepper 

To  make  dumpling  dough,  use  1  3/4  cups  self-rising  flour,  Crisco  and 
buttermilk.  Cook  chicken,  lightly  salted.  Debone  and  cut  into  chunks. 
Reserve  3  1/2  cups  broth. 

Grease  13x9x2  pan  with  margarine.  Line  sides  with  dumpling  dough. 
Using  1/2  of  the  hot  meat,  make  little  mounds  in  pan.  Cover  with  strips 
of  dumpling.  Fill  in  with  rest  of  meat.  Sprinkle  freely  with  black  pepper 
and  dot  with  3/4  stick  margarine  (or  use  chicken  fat).  Use  more  strips  of 
dumpling.  Pour  2  cups  of  hot  broth  over  this.  Cover  with  wide  strips  of 
dough  for  crust.  Pour  rest  of  broth  over  all.  Bake  at  400  degrees  until 
browned  (about  35  minutes).  Just  before  browning,  rub  crust  freely  with 
margarine. 

Mae  Crawford 


Main  Dishes  34 


PARMESAN  CHICKEN  (LIGHT  COOKING) 

4  chicken  breast  halves  skinned  1  (8  ounce)  can  tomato  sauce 

and  boned  1/4  tsp.  garlic  powder 

1/3  cup  fine,  dry  breadcrumbs  1/4  tsp.  dried  whole  basil 

1/4  tsp.  dried  whole  basil  1/4  cup  grated  parmesan  cheese 

1/8  tsp.  pepper  1/4  cup  (1  ounce)  shredded 

1  egg  white  slightly  beaten  mozzarella  cheese 
Vegetable  cooking  spray 

Place  each  chicken  breast  between  2  sheets  of  waxes  paper.  Flatten  to 
1/4  inch  thickness  using  a  meat  mallet  or  rolling  pin. 
Combine  breadcrumbs,  1/4  tsp.  basil,  and  pepper.  Dip  chicken  pieces  in 
egg  white.  Dredge  in  breadcrumb  mixture. 

Coat  a  large  nonstick  skillet  with  cooking  spray.  Place  over  medium- 
high  heat  until  hot.  Place  chicken  breasts  in  skillet,  and  cook  until 
lightly  browned  on  both  sides.  Remove  from  skillet,  and  arrange  chicken 
breasts  in  a  12x8x2  inch  baking  dish. 

Combine  tomato  sauce,  garlic  powder,  and  1/4  tsp.  basil.  Pour  over 
chicken.  Sprinkle  with  parmesan  cheese.  Cover  and  bake  at  350  for  30 
minutes.  Uncover  and  sprinkle  with  mozzarella  cheese.  Bake  an 
additional  5  minutes.  (About  298  calories  per  serving.) 

Pat  Griggs 

GREEK  SPAGHETTI  SAUCE  WITH  CHICKEN 

4  boneless  skinned  chicken  32  oz.  water 

breasts  salt  and  pepper 

1/3  stick  margarine  spaghetti  noodles  or  other 
cinnamon  (ground)  noodles 

2  cans  tomato  paste 

Wash  chicken  and  remove  any  fat.  Salt  and  pepper  each  piece,  then 
sprinkle  ground  cinnamon  covering  completely.  In  large  pot,  melt  the 
margarine.  Place  chicken  breasts  cinnamon  side  down  and  brown.  While 
browning,  sprinkle  ground  cinnamon  on  other  side,  covering 
completely.  Turn  chicken  once.  Next,  in  a  bowl,  mix  the  2  cans  of 
tomato  paste  and  32  oz.  of  water  together.  Then  pour  over  chicken  in 
pot.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer,  stirring  occasionally,  for  1  hour.  Remove 
chicken  to  a  bowl/platter.  Use  sauce  over  your  favorite  type  of  noodles. 
Decie  Kenyon  's  Son-in-Law  Todd  Shuart 


Main  Dishes  35 


CHICKEN  WAIKIKI  BEACH 

2  whole  chicken  legs  &  2  1  cup  sugar 

whole  chicken  breasts  2  tbsp.  cornstarch 

(you  can  use  all  legs  or  all  3/4  cup  cider  vinegar 

breasts)  1  tbsp.  soy  sauce 

1/2  cup  flour  (plain)  1/4  tsp.  ginger 

1/3  cup  salad  oil  1  chicken  bouillon  cube 

1  tsp.  salt  1  large  green  pepper,  cut 
1/4  tsp.  pepper  crosswise 

1  can  (1  pound)  sliced  pineapple 

Wash  chicken,  pat  dry  with  paper  towel.  Coat  chicken  with  flour.  Heat 
oil  in  large  skillet.  Add  chicken,  a  few  pieces  at  a  time,  and  brown  on  all 
sides.  Remove  when  browned  to  shallow  baking  pan,  arranging  pieces 
skin  side  up.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Meanwhile,  preheat  oven  to 
350  degrees. 

Make  sauce  as  follows:  Drain  pineapple,  pouring  syrup  into  2  cup 
measure,  add  water  to  make  1  1/4  cups.  In  medium  saucepan,  combine 
sugar,  cornstarch,  pineapple  syrup  vinegar,  soy  sauce,  ginger,  and 
bouillon  cube,  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  2  minutes.  Pour 
over  chicken.  Bake,  uncovered,  20  minutes.  Add  pineapple  slices  and 
green  pepper;  bake  20  minutes  longer,  or  until  chicken  is  tender.  Serve 
with  fluffy  white  rice.  Makes  four  servings. 

Billie  Johnson 

TURKEY  IN  A  BAG  (MICROWAVE) 

1  (up  to  7  pound)  turkey  breast         1  pkg.  dry  onion  soup  mix 
1  pkg.  dry  Italian  dressing  mix         1  stick  melted  margarine 

1  cooking  bag 

Mix  together  margarine  and  dry  mixes.  Place  turkey,  meaty  side  up,  in 
cooking  bag  and  pour  mixture  over  turkey;  fasten  with  plastic  tie.  Make 
slits  near  closure.  Using  temperature  probe,  cook  on  medium  high  power 
until  temperature  reaches  170  degrees.  Cooking  by  time,  cook  on 
medium  high  for  9  to  1 1  minutes  per  pound.  Let  stand  for  10  minutes 
before  serving. 

Kaye  J.  Snipes 


Main  Dishes 


36 


BEEF  AND  MACARONI  CASSEROLE 


1  pound  ground  beef 

1  (15  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 

1/2  can  water 

1  medium  onion,  chopped 


Dash  of:  salt,  oregano,  pepper, 

and  soy  sauce 

1  1/2  cups  cooked  macaroni 


Brown  ground  beef  and  onion  and  drain  well.  Add  other  ingredients 
(except  macaroni)  and  simmer  15  to  20  minutes.  Add  macaroni  and  heat 
through.  You  may  add  grated  cheese  to  top  if  you  like. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


QUICK  GROUND  CHUCK  DINNER 


1  1/2  pound  ground  chuck 

2  medium  onions 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup 


3-4  medium  potatoes 


Brown  meat  and  onions  in  a  pan.  Drain.  Take  a  10  inch  casserole  dish, 
spray  with  Pam.  Put  1/2  of  meat  mixture  in  bottom.  Add  layer  of  sliced 
potatoes.  Add  remainder  of  meat  and  another  layer  of  potatoes.  Cover 
with  soup.  Preheat  oven  to  375  degrees.  Bake  approximately  35  minutes 
or  until  bubbly  and  potatoes  are  done. 

Pam  Kirk 

COWBOY  BEANS 


2  cans  pork  V  beans 

1  can  kidney  beans 

1  pound  hamburger 

1  bell  pepper 

1  onion 

1  tsp.  mustard 


1  cup  catsup 
1  cup  vinegar 
1/3  cup  brown  sugar 
1/4  tsp.  garlic  salt 
pepper  to  taste 


Chop  pepper  and  onion.  Cook  until  tender.  Add  hamburger,  garlic  salt 
and  pepper.  Brown.  Add  pork  'n'  beans  and  kidney  beans.  Stir  well.  Add 
mustard,  brown  sugar,  catsup,  and  vinegar.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes. 

Susan  Nichols 


Main  Dishes 


37 


HAMBURGER  DELIGHT 


1  1/2  pound  ground  chuck 
1  medium  onion,  minced 
1  (14  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 
Thyme  and  oregano  to  taste 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  egg  noodles 


8  oz.  sour  cream  (light) 
3  oz.  cream  cheese  (low  calorie) 
Grated  cheddar  cheese  (if 
desired) 


Brown  hamburger  and  onions,  drain  fat.  Cook  noodles  till  done.  Drain. 
Mix  tomato  sauce,  thyme,  oregano,  salt  and  pepper  with  hamburger 
mix.  Place  noodles  in  casserole  dish.  Mix  sour  cream  and  cream  cheese 
till  smooth.  Pour  over  noodles.  Top  with  hamburger  mixture.  Sprinkle 
with  cheese  if  desired.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Nancy  Holt 

LASAGNA 


2  pounds  ground  round 
1  tbsp.  minced  garlic 
1  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 
1  tbsp.  basil 
1  tsp.  salt 

1  lb.  can  tomatoes  (2  cups) 

2  (6  oz.)  cans  tomato  paste 

10  oz.  noodles 


2  (12  oz.)  containers  cottage 

cheese  (3  cups) 
2  eggs,  beaten 

1  tsp.  salt 

2  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 
1/2  tsp.  pepper 

1/2  cup  parmesan  cheese 

1  lb.  mozzarella  cheese,  grated 

1  cup  sharp  cheddar  cheese 


Brown  meat  and  drain.  Mix  first  6  ingredients  and  add  to  the  meat. 

Combine  cottage  cheese,  eggs,  etc.  and  add  to  meat.  Simmer  45  minutes 

to  1  hour  or  until  thick.  Cook  noodles. 

Layer  in  9x13  pan:  hamburger  mixture,  noodles,  hamburger  mixture. 

1/2  of  each  cheese,  hamburger  mixture,  noodles,  hamburger  mixture, 

last  1/2  of  each  cheese. 

Bake  350  degrees  for  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Let  stand  5-10 

minutes  before  serving. 

Jewel  Crawford 


Main  Dishes  38 


MICROWAVE  LASAGNA 

1  pound  ground  beef  1/2  tsp.  pepper 

1  (32  oz.)  jar  spaghetti  sauce  8  lasagna  noodles,  uncooked 

1/2  cup  water  3/4  lb.  Mozzarella  cheese,  grated 

1  1/2  cup  ricotta  or  cottage  1/2  cup  grated  Parmesan 

cheese  cheese 

legg 

In  large  glass  bowl,  crumble  ground  beef.  Heat  2  to  5  minutes,  on  high, 

until  beef  is  browned,  stirring  once;  drain.  Stir  in  spaghetti  sauce  and 

water. 

Meanwhile,  combine  ricotta  cheese,  egg  and  pepper. 

In  oblong  microwave  dish,  spoon  1/2  cup  sauce,  alternately  layer 

noodles,  egg  mixture,  Mozzarella  cheese  and  sauce  forming  2  layers. 

Heat  covered  for  8  minutes  on  High.  Continue  cooking  on  Power  Level  5 

an  additional  30  to  32  minutes,  until  noodles  are  tender.  Top  with 

Parmesan  cheese,  let  stand,  covered  for  1 5  minutes  before  serving. 

Lucy  Fort 

PIZZA  CASSEROLE 

1  pound  hamburger  3/4  cup  biscuit  mix 

1/4  cup  chopped  onion  1  1/2  cup  milk 

1  (14  oz.)  jar  spaghetti  sauce  2  eggs 

2  cups  grated  mozzarella  cheese  Pepperoni 

Brown  hamburger  and  onions,  drain  well.  Mix  with  spaghetti  sauce.  Put 
in  bottom  of  8x8  inch  baking  dish.  Top  with  pepperoni  and  mozzarella 
cheese.  Mix  biscuit  mix,  milk  and  eggs  and  pour  over  the  top.  Bake  at 
400  degrees  for  about  30  minutes  or  until  bubbly.  Toppings  such  as 
pepperoni,  cooked  and  crumbled  sausage,  extra  cheese,  etc.  may  be 
added  during  last  5  to  10  minutes  of  baking. 

Serena  Bartholomew 


Main  Dishes  39 


SHORTCUT  LASAGNA,  MEXICAN  STYLE 

1  (10  oz.)  can  enchilada  sauce  9  oz.  lasagna  noodles 

1  (14  1/2  oz.)  can  cut-up,  peeled  1  pint  (2  cups)  low-fat  cottage 

tomatoes,  undrained  cheese 

1  (6  oz.)  can  tomato  paste  3  cups  shredded  cheddar 
1  (16  oz.)  can  black  beans,  cheese  (3/4  lb.) 

rinsed  and  well  drained 

Preheat  oven  to  375  degrees.  In  a  bowl,  combine  enchilada  sauce, 

tomatoes  with  their  juice,  and  tomato  paste.  Mix  to  blend  well.  Stir  in 

black  beans. 

Spoon  a  third  of  tomato  sauce  mixture  over  bottom  of  a  12x8  inch 

rectangular  baking  dish.  Top  with  3  uncooked  lasagna  noodles.  Spread 

evenly  with  1  cup  cottage  cheese  and  sprinkle  with  1  cup  cheddar 

cheese.  Spoon  on  half  the  remaining  tomato  sauce  mixture. 

Add  another  layer  of  3  noodles,  remaining  1  cup  cottage  cheese,  then 

sprinkle  with  1  cup  cheddar  cheese. 

Add  remaining  3  noodles  in  a  single  layer,  remaining  tomato  sauce,  and 

remaining  1  cup  cheddar  cheese.  Cover  tightly  with  foil. 

Bake  45  to  50  minutes,  or  until  noodles  are  tender.  Let  stand  at.  least  5 

minutes  before  serving.  Serves  6. 

Evelyn  Patterson 


SLOPPY  JOES 

1  pound  hamburger  1  can  chicken  gumbo  soup 

i  onion,  chopped 

Brown  hamburger  and  chopped  onions  in  frying  pan,  add  soup,  simmer 
5  minutes.  Serve  on  toasted  buns. 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Main  Dishes  40 


OVEN  PORCUPINES 

1  pound  ground  beef  1/8  tsp.  garlic  powder 

1/2  cup  uncooked  rice  1/8  tsp.  black  pepper 

1/2  cup  water  1  (15  oz.)  can  tomato  sauce 

1/3  cup  chopped  onions  1  cup  water 

1/2  tsp.  celery  salt  2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Heat  oven  to  350  degrees.  Mix  meat,  rice  1/2  cup  water,  salt,  garlic 
powder  and  pepper.  Shape  into  balls  about  rounded  tablespoon  size. 
Place  meatballs  into  ungreased  dish.  Stir  together  tomato  sauce,  1  cup 
water  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Pour  over  meatballs,  cover  with  foil 
and  bake  45  minutes.  Remove  foil  and  bake  15  minutes  longer.  Serves  4 
to  6. 

Ann  Bradshaw  Whitlow 

BAR-B-QUE  MEATBALLS 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  (2  slices)  Sauce: 

1/2  cup  milk  1/4  cup  vinegar 

2  tbsp.  onion,  chopped  1  tbsp.  sugar 

1  pound  hamburger  1  1/2  tbsp.  Worcestershire 

1  tsp.  salt  sauce 

1/4  tsp.  pepper  1/2  cup  ketchup 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk.  Mix  first  six  ingredients  together  and  form 
balls  about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Sprinkle  with  garlic  salt.  Cover  with 
sauce.  Cook  at  400  degrees  till  bubbly,  lower  temperature  to  325  degrees 
and  cook  for  one  hour. 
Pat  Griggs'  Sister-in-Law  Viola  Deal 

TOMALLI  PIE 

1  1/2  pound  hamburger  Dash  of  garlic 

1  onion,  chopped  1  can  tomato  soup 

1  bell  pepper,  chopped  1/2  cup  water 

2  tbsp.  chili  powder  1  can  corn,  drained 

1  tsp.  salt  1  can  hot  chili  beans, 

1/2  tsp.  pepper  optional 


Main  Dishes  41 


Brown  first  three  ingredients.  Mix  all  ingredients  together,  pour  in  a 
large  casserole  dish.  Combine  1  box  of  Jiffy  Corn  Meal  according  to 
directions  on  package  and  pour  over  hamburger  mixture.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  till  cornbread  is  done. 
Pat  Griggs'  Sister-in-Law  Viola  Deal 

SPAGHETTI  BAKE 

1  pound  ground  beef  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

1  large  onion  (chopped)  1  bell  pepper,  chopped  (optional) 

1  (8  oz)  box  spaghetti  (cooked)  sharp  cheddar  cheese,  cubed 

1  can  tomato  sauce  1  can  tomato  sauce 

Brown  ground  beef  and  onion  and  drain  off  fat.  Add  soups,  tomato 
sauce,  pepper  and  cheese.  Mix  with  (cooked  and  trained)  spaghetti. 
Spray  12x15  or  larger  pan  with  Pam.  Bake  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Betty  Holmes 

SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 

1  pound  ground  beef  1/2  tsp.  mustard 

2  or  3  chopped  onions  2  tbsp.  ketchup 
Bell  pepper  chopped  fine  1/2  tsp.  baking  soda 
1  can  tomatoes  1  tbsp.  sugar 

1  can  tomato  paste  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  can  tomato  sauce 

Cook  onions  and  bell  pepper  in  butter  until  soft.  Add  meat  and  other 
ingredients.  Brown  ground  beef  and  drain  grease  before  adding  meat  to 
sauce.  Cook  about  6  hours  on  low  heat.  Serve  over  spaghetti  noodles. 

Patricia  Ross 


Main  Dishes  42 


BEEF  STROGANOFF 

1  pound  round  or  sirloin  steak         2  tbsp.  flour 
(cut  in  cubes)  2  tsp.  salt 

1  beef  bouillon  cubes  1  tsp.  soy  sauce 

1/3  cup  chopped  onion  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  tbsp.  cooking  oil  1/2  cup  sour  cream 

Batter  steak  in  flour  and  salt.  Brown  onion  and  steak  in  oil.  Melt 
bouillon  cube  in  1  cup  hot  water  and  add  in  with  browned  meat.  Add  in 
soy  sauce  and  soup.  Let  simmer  20-25  minutes.  Just  before  serving,  add 
sour  cream.  Serve  over  rice  or  noodles. 

Karen  Sexton 


STROGANOFF  BUNS 

1  pound  ground  beef  1/4  tsp.  paprika 

3  slices  of  bacon,  diced  1  (10  oz.)  can  cream  of 

1/2  cup  diced  onion  mushroom  soup 

1  tbsp.  fat  sour  cream 

1  1/2  tbsp.  flour  8-10  hamburger  buns,  split  and 

3/4  tsp.  salt  toasted 

Brown  beef,  bacon  and  onion  in  fat,  drain  off  fat.  Stir  in  flour,  salt, 
paprika,  and  soup.  Simmer  15-20  minutes.  Stir  in  enough  sour  cream  to 
make  mixture  of  spreading  consistency.  Heat,  but  do  not  boil.  Serve  over 
bun  halves.  Add  larger  amount  of  sour  cream  if  desired  and  use  as 
topping  for  mashed  potatoes  or  over  noodles  or  rice.  Yield:  8-10 
servings. 

Priscilla  Lloyd 

TEXAS  HASH  (MICROWAVE) 

1  pound  lean  ground  beef  1  tsp.  chili  powder 

1/2  cup  chopped  onion  1  tsp.  salt 

1/4  cup  chopped  green  pepper  1  (8  oz.)  package  thin 

1  1/4  cups  chopped  celery  spaghetti,  cooked 

1  (16  oz.)  can  tomatoes,  cut  up  1  cup  shredded  cheddar  cheese 


Main  Dishes  43 


In  3  quart  covered  casserole,  break  up  ground  beef  and  push  to  the 
outside  to  make  a  circle.  Add  onion,  green  pepper  and  celery  to  the 
center.  Cover.  Microcook  on  High  6  to  7  minutes,  or  until  meat  is  no 
longer  pink.  Stir  meat  and  vegetables  together.  Cover.  Microcook  on 
Medium  (50%)  2  minutes.  Drain.  Add  tomatoes,  chili  powder,  and  salt. 
Cover.  Microcook  on  Medium  (50%)  5  minutes.  Add  cooked  drained 
spaghetti  and  stir  to  combine  ingredients.  Cover  with  wax  paper. 
Microcook  on  Medium  High  (70%)  7  to  9  minutes.  Stir  gently.  Sprinkle 
cheese  over  the  top.  Do  not  cover.  Microcook  on  Medium  High  (70%)  1 
1/2  to  2  minutes.  Serves  6  to  8. 

Jenny  Bryant 

OVEN  BEEF  STEW 

2  pounds  lean  beef  for  stewing  1/4  cup  flour 

3  tbsp.  vegetable  oil  1  tsp.  salt 

5  medium  carrots  1/4  tsp.  pepper 

3-4  medium  potatoes  1  1/2  cups  water 

1  (28  oz.)  can  tomatoes  1  envelope  onion  soup  mix 

Cut  beef  into  one  inch  cubes.  Combine  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Dredge 
beef  in  flour.  Heat  oil  in  large  skillet.  Brown  beef  in  oil.  Transfer  beef  to 
3  quart  casserole  dish.  Add  vegetables.  Combine  water  and  soup  mix. 
Add  to  casserole.  Cover  and  bake  in  oven  at  375  degrees  for  2  hours. 
Yields  6  servings. 

Frances  Snipes 

MULLIGAN  STEW 

1  tbsp.  shortening  2  cans  water 

1  pound  lean  beef  cubes  3  carrots,  sliced 

1  tsp.  salt  3  potatoes  cut  in  quarters 

1  can  tomato  soup  2  onions  cut  in  quarters 

Brown  beef  chunks  in  oil  over  medium  heat.  Add  salt,  soup  and  water. 

Bring  to  a  boil  and  simmer  one  hour  till  meat  is  tender.  Add  vegetables 

and  cook  another  30  minutes  till  tender.  Add  more  liquid  (water)  if 

necessary. 

"We  made  this  in  second  grade  health  class. " 

Ann  Bradshaw  Whitlow 


Main  Dishes  44 


PEPPER  STEAK 

2  tbsp.  oil  2  medium  green  peppers,  cut 

1  pound  boneless  steak,  cut  into  into  chunks 

thin  strips  2  medium  onions,  sliced 

2  tbsp.  soy  sauce  1  tbsp.  cornstarch 
Dash  ginger  1/2  cup  beef  broth 
Salt  to  taste 

Pour  oil  in  8-inch  square  dish.  Cook  at  Medium-High  3  minutes.  Add 
steak,  soy  sauce  and  ginger.  Cook  at  Medium-High  7  to  8  minutes;  stir 
once.  Season  with  salt  and  stir  in  peppers  and  onions.  Cook,  covered 
with  plastic  wrap  at  Medium-High  3-5  minutes  or  until  vegetables  are 
crisp  and  tender.  Blend  cornstarch  with  broth  until  smooth.  Stir  into 
dish  and  cook  at  Medium-High  3-5  minutes  or  until  sauce  is  thickened. 
Stir  once. 

Jenny  Bryant 

KIWI  ROAST  LAMB  DINNER 

1  (5-7  pound)  lamb  shoulder  or        4  carrots 

butt  2  medium  onions,  quartered 

8  medium  potatoes,  peeled  Several  fresh  whole  mushrooms 

Place  lamb  in  roasting  pan;  rub  with  butter;  season  with  sprinkling  of 
garlic  salt,  rosemary,  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  all  vegetables  except 
potatoes  around  roast.  Add  1/3  cup  water.  Cover  tightly  with  foil.  In 
separate  dish,  put  in  enough  oil  to  cover  bottom.  Place  halved  potatoes 
in  oil  and  turn  them  to  coat  them  on  all  sides.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  garlic.  Leave  uncovered.  Place  in  oven  at  same  time  as  roast.  Bake 
both  at  350  degrees  for  11/2  hours.  Potatoes  will  need  to  be  turned  once 
during  this  time. 

Cindy  Mclntyre 


Main  Dishes  45 


ORANGE-SAUCED  LAMB  CHOPS 

1  tbsp.  cornstarch  4  Iamb  loin  chops,  cut  3/4  inches 
1/4  tsp.  orange  peel,  finely  thick  (approximately  1 

grated  pound) 

1/8  tsp.  ground  nutmeg  1/2  cup  seedless  green  grapes, 
3/4  cup  orange  juice  halved 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

In  saucepan,  combine  cornstarch,  orange  peel  and  nutmeg,  stir  in  orange 
juice.  Cook  and  stir  until  bubbly.  Stir  in  lemon  juice.  Brush  chops  with 
sauce.  Broil  chops  3-4  inches  from  heat  for  4  minutes,  turn  and  brush 
with  sauce  again.  Broil  chops  5-6  minutes  longer.  Stir  grapes  into 
remaining  sauce,  heat  through.  Spoon  sauce  onto  chops.  Serves  4. 

Evelyn  Patterson 

PORK  CHOP  CASSEROLE 

4  to  6  pork  chops  1  can  mushroom  pieces,  drained 

1  cup  uncooked  rice  1  stick  margarine 

1  large  onion,  chopped  2  cans  consomme  soup  undiluted 

Brown  chops.  Saute  onion  and  mushrooms  in  margarine.  Spread  rice  in 
bottom  of  9x13  dish.  Place  chops  on  top.  Distribute  onion  mix  evenly 
over  chops.  Pour  soup  over  all.  cover  with  foil  and  bake  about  1  hour  at 
350  degrees  or  until  rice  is  tender. 
"You  can  omit  the  chops  and  use  as  a  rice  casserole.  " 

Leta  Bradshaw 

SPINACH  QUICHE 

2  packages  Stouffers  spinach  1  cup  mushrooms 

souffle  1  1/2  cup  cooked  Italian  sausage 

4  eggs  (crumbled) 

6  tbsp.  milk  1  1/2  cup  grated  Swiss  or 
4  tbsp.  chopped  onion  mozzarella  cheese 

Mix  ingredients,  pour  into  2  9"  (deep  dish)  pie  shells.  Bake  400  degrees 
for  30  minutes.  Serves  8. 

Mary  Lin  Truelove 


Main  Dishes  46 


STUFFED  SHELLS 

4  packages  frozen  spinach  Olive  oil 

1  pound  feta  cheese  28  oz.  can  crushed  tomatoes 

1  medium  onion  16  oz.  Ricotta  cheese 

2  level  tbsp.  dill  weed  Parmesan  cheese 

3  medium  eggs  1  box  large  shells 
2  garlic  cloves  (optional)  Mushrooms 
Pepper 

Shells:  In  large  pot,  bring  water  with  1  tsp.  salt  to  a  boil,  carefully  add 

shells.  Reduce  heat  and  cook  for  eight  minutes.  Remove  from  heat,  drain 

and  place  in  cool  water. 

Sauce:  First  heat  large  pot,  then  add  2  tbsp.  olive  oil.  Add  garlic  and 

toast  it.  Then  add  diced  onions  and  saute.  Next,  add  mushroom  and 

crushed  tomatoes  and  simmer  10  minutes. 

Stuffing:  Thaw  spinach  and  remove  as  much  of  the  moisture  as  you  can 

by  squeezing  with  a  paper  towel.  Crumble  in  feta  cheese  and  mix  with 

hands.  Add  ricotta  cheese  and  dill  weed  and  mix  with  hand.  Beat  eggs, 

then  add  and  mix  into  mixture. 

Wipe  the  inside  of  a  9x13  pan  with  olive  oil.  Stuff  shells  with  stuffing 

mixture  (should  fill  entire  pan  with  stuffed  shells).  Sprinkle  parmesan 

cheese  over  top.  Pour  sauce  evenly  over  top  and  sprinkle  again  with 

parmesan  cheese.  Cover  with  aluminum  foil  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for 

one  hour.  Serves  6  adults. 

Decie  Kenyon  's  Son-in-Law  Todd  Shuart 


'Breads 

& 
HoCCs 


Breads  &  Rolls  47 


ANGEL  BISCUITS 

5  cups  self-rising  flour  1  1/2  cups  buttermilk 

1/2  cup  Crisco  2  tbsp.  plain  wheat  germ 

1  pkg.  yeast  1  heaping  tsp.  sugar 
1/2  cup  warm  water 

Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  water.  Blend  Crisco  with  dry  ingredients. 
Combine  yeast  mixture  with  buttermilk,  add  dry  ingredients.  Let  rise  in 
warm  place  for  1/2  hour.  Make  into  biscuits  and  bake  at  400  degrees. 

Decie  Kenyon 

ANGEL  FLAKE  BISCUITS 

1  pkg.  yeast  1  tsp.  soda 

5  tbsp.  lukewarm  water  2  tsp.  salt 

3/4  cup  Crisco  3  tbsp.  sugar 

5  cups  flour  2  cups  buttermilk 

5  tsp.  baking  powder 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water;  set  aside.  Blend  Crisco  with  dry  ingredients. 
Combine  yeast  mixture  with  buttermilk,  add  dry  ingredients  making  a 
stiff  dough.  Place  dough  in  a  covered  container  in  refrigerator.  Pinch  off 
dough  as  needed.  Place  biscuits  in  cold  oven  -  turn  oven  to  450  degrees 
and  bake  until  brown. 

Pat  Griggs 

CHEESE  BISCUITS 

1/2  lb.  butter  or  margarine  2  cups  flour 

1/2  lb.  grated  cheese  1/4  tsp.  salt 

1/4  tsp.  baking  powder 

Blend  butter  and  cheese.  Add  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Knead 
slightly.  Roll  out  and  cut  into  desired  shapes.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  7 
to  8  minutes. 

Submitted  by  her  daughter  Lora  Wilkerson 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Breads  &  Rolls  48 


CHEESE  BISCUITS 

2  cups  self  rising  flour  1/2  cup  (2  oz.)  shredded  Cheddar 

1/3  cup  shortening  cheese 

3/4  cup  milk 

Combine  flour  and  shortening  in  a  medium  bowl,  cut  in  shortening  with 
pastry  blender  until  mixture  resembles  coarse  meal.  Stir  in  cheese  and 
milk.  Turn  dough  out  onto  a  floured  surface  and  knead  lightly  3  to  4 
times.  Roll  dough  to  1/2  inch  thickness,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  2  3/4 
inch,  biscuit  cutter.  Place  biscuits  on  an  ungreased  baking  sheet  and 
bake  at  450  degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Yields  about  1  dozen 

Billie  Johnson 

MAYONNAISE  BISCUITS 

2  cups  self-rising  flour  1  cup  buttermilk 

1/4  cup  mayonnaise 

If  you  do  not  have  buttermilk,  you  may  substitute  plain  milk  with  1 
Tbsp.  vinegar  added.  Combine  flour,  mayonnaise  and  buttermilk.  Mix 
well.  Pour  into  muffin  pan.  Bake  at  400  degrees  until  brown. 

Decie  Kenyon 

NOVELLA'S  CHEW  BREAD 

2  cups  self-rising  flour  1  stick  margarine 
1  box  brown  sugar                             Nuts  or  dates 

3  eggs 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  into  a  well  greased  pan.  Cook  at  300 
degrees  for  about  an  hour.  Bread  will  rise  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  It  is 
supposed  to  be  gooey  and  sticky. 

Marybelle  Kirk 


Breads  &  Rolls 


49 


CHEWY  BREAD 


1  box  brown  sugar 

1  stick  margarine  (softened) 

3  eggs 


2  cups  self-rising  flour 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


Combine  all  ingredients.  Pour  into  a  greased  6x12  inch  pan  and  bake 
at  375  degrees  for  25  minutes  or  until  nicely  brown  and  chewy. 

Variation:  Top  with  chopped  nuts  and/or  cinnamon  and  sugar 
before  baking. 

Decie  Kenyon 


CORN  BREAD 


1  cup  self-rising  corn  meal 

2  eggs 

1/2  cup  oil 


1  (8  oz.)  can  cream  style  corn 
1  carton  sour  cream 


Combine  ingredients.  Pour  into  6x9  inch  pan.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for 
25  minutes. 

Decie  Kenyon 


CORN  BREAD  SPECIAL 


2  eggs 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1/2  cup  salad  oil 

1  cup  cream  style  corn 


1  cup  plain  corn  meal 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  Tbsp.  sugar 

3  tsp.  baking  powder 


Combine  ingredients.  Pour  into  square  pan  and  bake  at  375  degrees  for 
40  to  45  minutes. 

Virginia  Perry 

CORN  BREAD  SPECIAL 


1  cup  plain  cornmeal 

2  eggs 
1  tsp.  salt 

3  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  and  cook  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes 


1  Tbsp.  sugar 

1/2  cup  cream  style  corn 

1  cup  sour  cream 


Martha  Kirk 


Breads  &  Rolls  50 


MOUNTAIN  CORNBREAD 

2  Tbsp.  shortening  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  plain  corn  meal  1/2  tsp.  salt 
1/2  cup  flour  1  egg 

milk 

Melt  shortening  in  an  iron  frying  pan.  "I  use  an  8  inch  pan."  Melt  it  in 
the  oven.  Mix  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  egg  and  enough  milk  to 
make  a  fairly  soft  batter.  Pour  mixture  into  hot  pan  from  the  oven.  Place 
back  in  oven  and  bake  for  20  to  30  minutes  at  425  degrees.  Serves  4. 

Billie  Johnson 

MUFFINS 

2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour  2  Tbsp.  sugar 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  1  egg  slightly  beaten 
1/2  tsp.  salt  1  cup  milk 

1/4  cup  melted  shortening 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Combine  eggs,  milk 
and  shortening  and  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Stir  to  moisten  dry 
ingredients.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Vickie  Felmet  McGee 

JENNY'S  BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 

1  3/4  cups  plain  flour  3/4  cup  milk 

1/4  cup  sugar  1/3  cup  salad  oil  or  melted 

2  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder  shortening 

3/4  tsp.  salt  1  cup  berries  (put  in  last  of 

1/4  tsp.  nutmeg  mixing) 

legg 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  then  wet  ingredients;  mix  together.  Spoon  into  pan. 
Bake  at  400  degrees. 

Jenny  H.  Bryant 


Breads  &  Rolls  51 


MAYONNAISE  MUFFINS 

1  cup  self-rising  flour  1  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

1/2  cup  plain  milk 

Stir  ingredients  together  until  smooth.  Bake  at  450  degrees  for  8  to  10 
minutes. 

Karen  Sexton 


OAT  BRAN  MUFFINS 

2  cups  oat  bran  1/4  cup  brown  sugar 

2  egg  whites  1/2  cup  applesauce 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  1/2  cup  raisins 

1/4  cup  honey  1/2  to  1  cup  skim  milk 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Use  milk  to  thin  batter.  Pour  into  muffin 
pans  with  liners  or  greased  well  with  oil.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until 
brown. 

Frances  Snipes 


WILLIAMSBURG  SWEET  POTATO  MUFFINS 

1/2  cup  butter  1/4  tsp.  salt 

1  1/4  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  eggs  1/4  tsp.  nutmeg 
1  1/4  cups  sweet  potatoes  1  cup  milk 

(mashed)  1/4  cup  pecans  (chopped) 

1  1/2  cups  flour  1/4  cup  raisins 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  mix  well.  Blend  in  sweet 
potatoes.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices;  Add  to  other  mixture 
alternately  with  milk.  Do  not  over  mix.  Fold  in  nuts  and  raisins.  Fill 
greased  muffin  tins  1/2  full.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  25  minutes. 
*  Batter  can  be  made  ahead  and  stored  in  refrigerator  for  3  to  4  days. 

Rebecca  Crawford 


Breads  &  Rolls 


52 


BANANA  BREAD 


1  1/2  cups  all-purpose  flour 
1/2  cup  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  tsp.  baking  soda 
1/2  tsp.  salt 


1/2  cup  wheat  germ 

3  medium,  very  ripe  bananas, 

mashed  (appro*.  1  cup) 
1/4  cup  buttermilk 
1/4  cup  oil 

4  egg  whites 


Sift  together  the  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  baking  soda  and  salt.  Mix 
in  the  wheat  germ.  Add  all  remaining  ingredients  and  beat  until  well 
blended.  Place  in  an  oiled  8x4  inch  loaf  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  about 
1  hour  or  until  done. 
American  Heart  Association  Pat  Griggs 


BANANA  NUT  BREAD 


Icing: 

1/3  cup  butter 

3/4  cup  brown  sugar 

1/4  cup  canned  milk 

13/4-2  cups  powdered  sugar 


1/2  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 
3  eggs 

2  cups  plain  flour 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  soda 

3  bananas  (crushed) 
1/4  cup  nuts 

1  tsp.  vanilla 


Sift  flour  with  soda.  Combine  all  ingredients  adding  crushed  bananas 

and  nuts  last.  Bake  in  greased  loaf  pans  at  325  to  350  degree  oven  for  50 

minutes. 

ICING:  In  a  saucepan,  melt  butter.  Add  brown  sugar  and  stir  until 

dissolved.  Add  canned  milk  and  remove  from  heat  and  beat  in 

confectioners'  sugar.  Drizzle  on  hot  bread. 

Betty  Holmes 


Breads  &  Rolls  53 


FRENCH  ONION  BREAD 

2  cakes  dry  yeast  3  Tbsp.  sugar 

1/2  cup  warm  water  2  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  shortening  1/2  pkg.  dry  onion  soup  mix 

1  1/2  cups  hot  water  5  1/2  cups  plain  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  1/2  cup  warm  water.  Mix  together  with  other 
ingredients  and  let  rise  for  1  1/2  hours.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40 
minutes.  Serves  10. 

Billie  Johnson 


FRENCH  BREAD  BRAIDS 

1  pkg.  yeast  (or  1  cake)  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

2  1/4  cups  warm  water  7  1/2-8  cups  sifted  flour 
1/4  cup  melted  shortening  1  egg 

1  Tbsp.  salt 

Soften  yeast  in  1/4  cup  water.  Combine  in  large  mixing  bowl  2  cups 
water,  shortening,  salt,  sugar.  Add  yeast  mixture.  Gradually  add  flour  to 
form  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  on  floured  surface  until  smooth  and  satiny  -  5 
to  8  minutes.  Place  in  greased  bowl  and  cover.  Let  rise  in  a  warm  place 
until  light  and  doubled  in  size  (  1  to  1  1/2  hours).  Punch  down.  Let  rise 
30  minutes. 

Divide  dough  into  3  parts.  Divide  each  part  into  3  portions,  roll 
each  portion  into  a  strip  about  14  inches  long.  Braid  the  3  strips 
together;  sealing  ends.  Place  braid  on  greased  baking  sheet.  Repeat  with 
remaining  parts  to  make  3  loaves.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  doubled  (45  to 
60  minutes).  Brush  loaves  with  beaten  egg.  If  desired,  sprinkle  with 
poppy  seeds  or  sesame  seeds. 

Bake  in  hot  oven  425  degrees  15  minutes,  then  at  350  degrees  20 
to  25  minutes  until  deep  golden  brown. 

Variation:  Divide  dough  into  24  equal  parts  and  shape  into  rolls. 
Let  rise  and  bake  as  above. 

Diane  Kress 


Breads  &  Rolls  54 


DINNER  ROLLS 

2  pkg.  yeast  6  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  1/2  cups  warm  water  1  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  (well  beaten)  5  to  5  1/2  cups  bread  flour  or 

1/4  cup  melted  shortening  plain  flour 

Soften  yeast  in  water.  Add  sugar,  salt,  shortening  and  egg.  Add  flour  a 
little  bit  at  the  time  until  a  stiff  dough  is  formed.  Turn  out  on  to  a  lightly 
floured  board  and  work  the  rest  of  flour  into  the  dough.  Place  dough  in  a 
greased  bowl  turning  to  grease  top.  Cover  and  let  rise  about  1  hour. 
Punch  down  and  make  into  rolls.  Place  on  a  greased  baking  sheet.  Let 
rise  again  until  doubled  in  size.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  15  minutes  or 
until  brown.  Grease  tops  while  still  warm. 

Vivian  Gwynn 


DELICIOUS  HOME-MADE  ROLLS 

1  cup  shortening  2  pkgs.  yeast 
2/3  cup  sugar  2  eggs  beaten 

2  tsp.  salt  6  cups  sifted  flour 

Pour  1  cup  boiling  water  over  shortening  in  bowl.  Stir  until  melted.  Stir 
in  sugar  and  salt  until  dissolved.  Cool  until  lukewarm.  Dissolve  yeast  in 
1  cup  lukewarm  water.  Add  to  shortening  mixture  with  eggs  and  enough 
flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Let  rise  covered  in  warm  place  until  doubled 
in  bulk.  Punch  down.  Place  in  refrigerator  2  hours  or  one  week.  Shape 
into  rolls.  Let  rise  until  doubled.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  12  to  15 
minutes.  Yield:  2  1/2  to  3  dozen. 

Virginia  Perry 


Breads  &  Rolls 


55 


WHOLE  WHEAT  ROLLS 


1  pkg.  yeast 
1/2  cup  sugar 
1  tsp.  salt 
1/2  cup  Crisco 


legg 

2  1/2  cups  whole  wheat  flour 

1  1/2  cups  white  flour 


Dissolve  yeast  in  1/3  cup  warm  water.  Heat  1  cup  water,  sugar,  salt  and 
Crisco.  Cool.  Beat  in  egg  and  yeast  water.  Add  flour.  Refrigerate 
overnight.  Roll  out  and  shape  into  rolls.  Let  rise  until  doubled.  Bake  at 
375  degrees  for  about  10  minutes.  Will  keep  in  refrigerator  for  a  week. 

Peggy  Hamlett 


Breads  &  Rolls  56 


Notes 


Desserts 


HHHHH 


Desserts  57 


BLUEBERRY  SAUCE 

1  (10  oz.)  pkg.  frozen  1/4  cup  sugar 

blueberries  1  tbsp.  cornstarch 

1/2  cup  unsweetened  pineapple  1/8  tsp.  salt 

juice  1/4  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind 

1/4  cup  water  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Combine  blueberries,  pineapple  juice,  water,  sugar,  cornstarch,  salt  and 
lemon  rind  in  a  1  quart  saucepan.  Cook  over  medium  heat  stirring  until 
sauce  thickens.  Cool  slightly.  Stir  in  lemon  juice.  Chill.  Makes  about  1 
3/4  cups  sauce.  Serve  over  ice  cream  as  a  sundae  or  over  cake  or  layer  it 
with  vanilla  pudding  as  a  parfait. 

Mae  Crawford 

PRALINE  ICE  CREAM  SAUCE 

1  1/2  cups  chopped  pecans  1  1/4  cups  brown  sugar 
1/4  cup  butter  or  margarine             3/4  cup  light  corn  syrup 

3  tbsp.  plain  flour  1  small  can  evaporated  milk 

Spread  pecans  in  single  layer  on  cookie  sheet  and  bake  at  300  degrees 
for  10  minutes.  Set  aside.  Melt  butter  in  medium  saucepan.  Add  flour, 
sugar  and  corn  syrup  stirring  well.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and 
simmer  5  minutes  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat.  Gradually  stir 
in  milk. 

Pant  Kirk 

BANANA  PUDDING 

2(3  oz.)  pkgs.  vanilla  instant  Vanilla  wafers 

pudding  Lite  whipped  topping 

3  cups  skim  milk  5  bananas 
8  oz.  plain  lowfat  yogurt 

Mix  vanilla  instant  pudding  with  3  cups  skim  milk  according  to  package 
directions.  Fold  plain  low  fat  yogurt  into  pudding  mixture.  In  a  9  x  13  x 

2  inch  dish  layer  vanilla  wafers,  bananas,  and  pudding  beginning  with 
wafers  and  ending  with  pudding.  Top  with  whipped  topping.  Serves:  8. 

Evelyn  Patterson 


Desserts  58 


CHEESY  PINEAPPLE 

2  lg.  cans  pineapple  chunks  1  cup  sugar 

2  tbsp.  plain  flour  1  sleeve  Ritz  crackers 

2  cups  cheese  1  stick  margarine 

Drain  the  pineapple  chunks.  Mix  pineapple,  flour,  cheese  and  sugar 
together.  Put  into  an  8  x  8  inch  pan.  Mix  1  sleeve  of  crushed  Ritz 
crackers  with  1  stick  of  melted  butter  or  margarine.  Place  on  top  of 
pineapple  mixture..  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Karen  Sexton 

CHOCOLATE  DELIGHT 

1  cup  plain  flour  1  small  pkg.  chocolate  instant 
1  stick  margarine  pudding* 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1  sm.  pkg.  vanilla  instant 
1  (8  oz.)  cream  cheese  pudding 

1  cup  confectioners  sugar  1  lg.  container  cool  whip 

2  cups  milk 

Mix  together  flour,  margarine  and  nuts  and  spread  into  bottom  of  a 

large  casserole  dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Cool 

completely. 

Mix  together  cream  cheese  and  confectioner  sugar  and  spread  over 

crust.  Cover  with  1  cup  cool  whip. 

Mix  together  milk  and  instant  pudding.  Spread  this  over  cool  whip  and 

top  with  the  remaining  cool  whip. 

*  May  use  any  flavor  of  instant  pudding. 

Alisa  Kenyon  Hill 


CHOCOLATE  SPECTACULAR 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1  (8  oz.)  cream  cheese 

1/2  cup  plain  flour  1  lg.  carton  cool  whip 

1/2  cup  self  rising  flour 
1  stick  butter  2  boxes  chocolate  instant 

pudding 
1  cup  confectioner's  sugar  4  cups  milk 


Desserts  59 


Mix  first  4  ingredients  together  and  bake  for  15  minutes  at  350  degrees. 
Allow  to  cool  completely.  Mix  sugar,  cream  cheese  and  1/2  cool  whip 
together  well  and  spread  over  first  layer. 

Mix  milk  and  instant  pudding  according  to  package  directions.  Pour 
over  second  layer  and  allow  to  set.  Cover  top  with  the  rest  of  cool  whip. 
Sprinkle  top  with  chopped  nuts  and  place  half  cherries  around,  chill. 

Susan  Nichols 

DIRT  CUPS 

2  cups  cold  milk  1  (8  oz.)  container  cool  whip 

1  small  pkg.  Jello  instant  1  (16  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate 

chocolate  pudding  sandwich  cookies  (crushed) 

Pour  2  cups  cold  milk  into  bowl.  Add  pudding  mix.  Beat  with  wire 
whisk  until  well  blended,  about  2  minutes.  Let  pudding  stand  5  minutes. 
Stir  whipped  topping  and  1/2  of  the  crushed  cookies  into  pudding  very 
gently  with  rubber  scraper  until  mixture  is  all  the  same  color.  Place 
about  1  tablespoon  of  the  remaining  crushed  cookies  into  bottom  of  each 
paper  or  plastic  cup. 

Fill  cups  about  3/4  full  with  pudding  mixture.  Top  each  cup  with  the 
rest  of  the  crushed  cookies.  Put  cups  into  refrigerator  to  chill  until  set. 
about  1  hour.  Garnish  with  silk  or  plastic  flowers,  candy  worms,  frogs  or 
bugs  if  you  wish.  Yields:  8  to  10  dirt  cups 

Lila  Kirk 

CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS 

2  small  boxes  vanilla  instant  Topping: 

pudding  1  cup  sugar 

1  8  oz.  carton  cool  whip  dash  salt 

3  cups  cold  milk  1/2  cup  cocoa 

2  pkgs.  graham  crackers  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/4  cup  milk 
Mix  pudding,  milk  and  cool  whip.  Shake  for  1  minute  until  thick.  Line 
bottom  of  9  x  13  inch  dish  with  graham  crackers  and  cover  with 
pudding  mixture.  Layer  graham  crackers  and  pudding  alternately  until 
all  of  both  is  in  the  dish. 

Topping:  Bring  to  boil  for  1  minute  sugar,  salt,  cocoa,  vanilla  and  milk. 
Pour  over  pudding  and  refrigerate  for  1  hour  to  set. 

Alma  Trollinger 


Desserts  60 


PAVLOVA  (NEW  ZEALAND  DESSERT) 

4  egg  whites  (at  room  temp.)  1  tsp.  corn  meal 

1  cup  superfine  instant  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

dissolving  sugar  1  tsp.  "malt"  vinegar 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Then,  add  sugar  1/3  at  a  time.  Next  add  corn 
meal,  vanilla  and  vinegar  at  slower  speed.  Blend  together.  Mixture 
should  be  very  stiff.  Pile  meringue  on  aluminum  foil  sheet  that  has  been 
lightly  sprayed  with  Pam.  Smooth  out  meringue  into  circle 
approximately  2  or  3  inches  high.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until  lightly 
brown  then  turn  off  oven.  Leave  in  oven  for  2  hours.  DO  NOT  OPEN 
OVEN  DOOR.  Decorate  with  whipped  cream  after  removing  tin  foil. 
Top  with  fruit.  This  recipe  can  be  doubled,  which  is  what  I  usually  do. 
It's  very  good  and  rich. 

Cindy  Mclntyre 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING 

3/4  cup  sugar  2  cups  persimmon  pulp 

2  cups  plain  flour  1  cup  buttermilk 
1  tsp.  soda  2  eggs  beaten 
1/2  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  pumpkin  pie  spice  2  tbsp.  melted  margarine 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  soda,  salt  and  pumpkin  pie  spice.  Mix  remaining 
ingredients  and  add  to  dry  mix.  Blend  well.  Grease  and  flour  a  9  x  13 
inch  pan.  Spread  mixture  into  pan  and  bake  for  1  1/2  to  2  hours  in  a  300 
degree  oven. 

Nettie  Felmet 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

Grate  as  much  potato  as  you  think  you  need.  Two  or  three  eggs  if  they  are 
not  too  high.  (Beat  whites  separately  if  you  have  time.)  A  good-sized  piece 
of  butter  if  you  have  it  to  spare.  Sweeten  to  suit  your  taste  if  you  have  sugar 
enough.  Milk  or  water  for  a  thin  batter.  (I  prefer  water.)  A  generous  pinch 
of  salt.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  other  spices  as  preferred.  Bake  it  until  it  is 
done  and  eat  it  when  you  want  it. 

Submitted  by  Mae  Crawford 


Desserts  6 1 


SUMMER  STRAWBERRY  DESSERT 

1  (1.3  oz.)  pkg.  whipped  topping  2  (6  oz.)  commercial  angel 

mix  food  cake 

1/2  cup  skim  milk  2  cups  fresh  strawberries 

1  carton  plain  yogurt  3  kiwi  fruit 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract  2  Tbsp.  sliced  almonds 

Tear  angel  food  cake  into  bite  size  pieces.  Slice  strawberries  and  kiwi 
fruit  and  toast  almonds.  Prepare  whipped  topping  mix  according  to 
package  directions  using  1/2  cup  skim  milk  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Fold 
in  yogurt  and  set  aside 

Layer  half  of  cake,  yogurt  mixture,  strawberries  and  kiwi  fruit  in 
an  8  inch  square  dish.  Repeat  layers.  Sprinkle  almonds  on  top.  Cover 
and  chill  at  least  2  hours.  Yield:  8  servings  (162  calories  17  percent 
from  fat  per  3/4  cup  serving. 

Kaye  J.  Snipes 

TOFFEE  COFFEE  TORTE 

1  sm.  box  chocolate  pudding  1  carton  whipping  cream 

3  tbsp.  instant  coffee  1  large  angel  food  cake 

1  1/2  cup  milk  2  Heath  candy  bars 

Add  instant  coffee  and  milk  to  pudding  mix.  Cook  according  to 
directions  on  package.  Cover  and  chill  in  refrigerator.  Whip  one  carton 
of  whipping  cream,  fold  1/2  of  whipped  cream  into  chilled  chocolate 
pudding.  Slice  one  large  round  angel  food  cake  into  three  layers.  Spread 
part  of  the  chocolate  mixture  between  layers.  Fold  remaining  whipped 
cream  into  remaining  chocolate  mixture  and  ice  top  and  sides  of  cake. 
Crush  2  chilled  Heath  candy  bars  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  cake. 

Ann  Nicholson 


Desserts  62 


CHEESECAKE 

CRUST:  FILLING: 

1/2  cup  margarine  softened  2(8  oz.)  cream  cheese 

1/3  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  sugar 

1  cup  self-rising  flour  2  eggs 

1/3  cup  chopped  nuts  1/2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1/2  tsp.  almond  extract 
2  cups  (16  oz.)  sour  cream 

Cream  margarine  and  sugar  until  fluffy.  Add  flour  and  nuts.  Spread  in 
bottom  of  spring  form  pan.  Bake  10  to  15  minutes  in  350  degree  oven. 
Remove  and  cool. 

Beat  cheese  and  sugar  until  fluffy.  Add  eggs  and  flavorings,  mix 
well.  Add  sour  cream  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  the  cooled  crust.  Bake  30 
minutes  in  a  350  degree  oven.  Turn  off  the  oven  but  leave  the 
cheesecake  in  the  oven  for  30  minutes  longer.  Remove  after  30  minutes 
and  cool.  Chill  and  add  topping  of  your  choice  or  serve  plain. 

Kitty  Br  ads  haw 

EASY  CHEESECAKE 

1  can  eagle  brand  condensed  3  tsp.  lemon  juice 

milk  1  can  cherry  pie  filling 

1(8  oz.)  cream  cheese  1  graham  cracker  crust 

Mix  milk,  cream  cheese  and  lemon  juice  together.  Pour  into  a  graham 
cracker  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes.  Top  with  cherry  pie 
filling. 

Vickie  Feltnet  McGee 

NO  FAIL  CREAMY  VANILLA  CHEESECAKE 

Filling:  Crust: 

5  (8  oz.)  pkgs.  cream  cheese  1  2/3  cups  graham  cracker 
(softened)  crumbs 

1  1/2  cups  sugar  1/3  cup  melted  margarine 
3  eggs 

2  1/2  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 


Desserts  63 


Beat  cream  cheese  on  high  until  light  and  fluffy;  gradually  add  sugar, 
beating  well.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Pour 
into  graham  cracker  crust. 

CRUST:  Combine  crumbs  and  margarine,  stirring  well.  Firmly  press 
mixture  evenly  on  bottom  and  1  inch  up  sides  of  a  10  inch,  springform 
cheesecake  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  5  minutes.  Remove  from  oven 
and  add  cheese  cake  mixture.  Return  to  oven  and  bake  at  350  degrees 
for  40  minutes;  turn  oven  off.  Leave  cheesecake  in  the  oven  for  30 
minutes  more.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  let  cool  on  a  wire  rack.  Cover 
and  chill  at  least  8  hours. 

Cindy  Mclntyre 


HERSHEY'S  CREAMY  CHOCOLATE  CHEESECAKE 

1  cup  salted  or  unsalted  finely  1  cup  sugar 

crushed  pretzels  1/3  cup  Hershey's  Cocoa 

1 tbsp.  sugar  2  eggs 

1/3  cup  margarine  (melted)  1  cup  sour  cream 

2  (8  oz.)  pkgs.  cream  cheese  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Heat  oven  to  350  degrees.  For  the  crust,  in  a  medium  bowl  combine 
crushed  pretzels  and  1  tablespoon  sugar;  stir  in  butter.  Press  mixture  on 
bottom  of  a  9  inch  pan.  Bake  8  minutes,  cool  slightly.  In  a  large  mixer 
bowl,  beat  cream  cheese  until  smooth  and  fluffy.  Gradually  beat  in  1  cup 
sugar  and  cocoa.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time  beating  well  after  each 
addition.  Stir  in  sour  cream  and  vanilla,  blend  well.  Pour  into  the  pan. 
Bake  for  35  minutes.  Turn  the  oven  off  but  leave  the  cheesecake  in  the 
oven  for  20  minutes  longer  without  opening  the  oven  door.  Cool  cake 
completely.  Cover  and  refrigerate. 

Serene  Bartholomew 


Desserts  64 


MINI  -  CHEESECAKES 

12  vanilla  wafers  1/2  cup  sugar 

2  (8  oz.)  pkgs.  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  vanilla 

(softened)  2  eggs 

Line  muffin  tins  with  foil  liners.  Place  one  vanilla  wafer  in  each  liner. 
Mix  cream  cheese,  vanilla  and  sugar  on  medium  speed  until  well- 
blended.  Add  eggs  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  wafers,  filling  to  3/4  full. 
Bake  25  minutes  at  325  degrees.  Remove  from  pan  when  cool.  Chill. 
Top  with  fruit,  preserves,  nuts  or  chocolate. 

Lila  Kirk 


APPLE  COBBLER 

1/2  cup  self-rising  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  stick  margarine  (melted)  2  cups  apples  (peeled  and 

1  cup  sugar  sliced)' 


\* 


Mix  flour  and  sugar  together  .  Add  milk.  Mix  together  and  add 
margarine.  After  mixing  well,  add  fruit.  Pour  into  a  greased  11x7  inch, 
pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  done.  Serve  warm 
with  ice  cream. 

♦Other  fruit  can  be  substituted  for  the  apples. 

Paige  H.  Winslow 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

1  -  8  oz.  can  refrigerator  1/2  cup  sugar 

crescent  dinner  rolls  1  tbsp.  ground  cinnamon 

2  lg.  apples  1/2  cup  orange  juice 

2  tbsps.  melted  butter  or  Whipping  cream  (optional) 

margarine 


Desserts  65 


Peel,  core  and  halve  apples.  Separate  dinner  rolls  dough  into  4 
rectangles.  Place  an  apple  half  in  center  of  each;  pull  corners  of 
rectangle  over  apple  and  pinch  dough  together,  sealing  all  seams  well. 
Place  in  a  lightly  greased  9  inch  square  baking  dish,  and  drizzle  with 
butter.  Combine  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  sprinkle  over  dumplings.  Pour 
orange  juice  into  dish;  cover  with  foil.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  35 
minutes.  Serve  hot.  Top  with  whipped  cream.  Yields:  4  servings 

Billie  Johnson 

APPLE  CRISP 

4  cups  sliced  tart  apples  Topping: 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  1/3  cup  margarine 

1/4  cup  sugar  1/3  cup  flour 

1  cup  dry  oatmeal 

1/2  cup  packed  brown  sugar 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Spray  a  dish  with  Pam.  Spread  apples  in  bottom  of  the  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Toss  to  mix  well.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and 
add  melted  margarine  to  make  a  crumbly  mix.  Sprinkle  over  top  of 
apples.  Bake  about  30  minutes  in  350  degree  oven.  Serve  warm  or  cold. 
*Good  with  vanilla  ice  cream  while  hot. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 

APPLE-CHEESE  CRISP 

6  cups  cored,  pared,  sliced  1/2  cup  granulated  sugar 

apples  2/3  cup  sifted  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  1/4  tsp.  salt 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  1/3  cup  butter  or  margarine 

1/2  cup  corn  syrup  1/4  lb.  (1  cup)  grated  cheese 

Arrange  apples  in  greased,  shallow  baking  dish  about  10x6x2  inches. 
Sprinkle  with  cinnamon.  Pour  lemon  juice  and  corn  syrup  over  apples. 
Combine  sugar,  flour  and  salt. ;  cut  in  butter  until  mixture  is  consistency 
of  coarse  corn  meal.  Lightly  stir  in  cheese.  Top  apples  with  this  mixture. 
Bake,  uncovered,  in  moderate  oven  of  350  degrees  for  1  hour  or  until 
apples  are  very  tender.  Serve  warm  with  or  without  cream.    Yield: 
serves  6  or  7. 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Desserts  66 


BLUEBERRY  CRUNCH 

1  can  blueberry  pie  filling  1  cup  coconut 

1(20  oz.)  can  crushed  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

pineapple  1  1/2  stick  margarine  (melted) 
1  box  yellow  cake  mix 

Spray  13x9  inch  or  larger  casserole  with  Pam.  Spread  pie  filling  evenly 
in  casserole  dish.  Add  crushed  pineapple  on  top  of  blueberries.  Pour  dry 
cake  mix  on  top  of  pineapple.  Slightly  press  cake  mix.  Pour  margarine 
on  top  of  cake  mix.  Sprinkle  pecans  and  coconut  on  top.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  40  minutes. 

Betty  Holmes 


EASY  CHERRY  COBBLER 

2  sticks  margarine  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  1  can  cherry  pie  filling 

Melt  margarine  and  pour  in  baking  dish.  Mix  sugar,  milk,  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  and  pour  mixture  into  melted  margarine.  Add 
cherry  pie  filling.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Martha  Kirk 

"MOCK"  DRIED  PEACHES  FOR  PIES  (CANNING) 

2  gallons  peeled  peaches  cut  in         6  cups  sugar 

fourths  1/2  cup  vinegar 

Mix  sugar  and  vinegar.  Add  peaches.  Cook  till  tender.  Put  in  clean  jars 
and  seal.  Can  be  used  to  make  fried  pies  or  regular  pies. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


Desserts  67 


BLUEBERRY  NUT  CRUNCH 

1  (No.  2  1/2)  can  crushed  1  box  yellow  cake  mix 

pineapple  1/4  lb.  melted  butter  or 

3  cups  fresh  or  frozen  margarine 

blueberries  1  cup  (or  more)  chopped  pecans 

3/4  cup  sugar  1/4  cup  sugar 

Lightly  grease  a  9  x  13  inch  baking  pan  or  dish  and  spread  the 
undrained  crushed  pineapple  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

Add  the  layer  of  blueberries  and  3/4  cup  of  sugar.  Sprinkle  the  box 
of  cake  mix  on  top  of  the  fruit  layers.  Then  drizzle  the  melted  butter  or 
margarine  all  over  the  layer  of  dry  cake  mix;  top  it  all  with  a  generous 
amount  of  pecans. 

Finally  for  a  crunch  glaze,  sprinkle  the  remaining  1/4  cup  of  sugar 
on  top.  Bake  in  a  preheated  oven  at  350  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes,  or 
until  cake  mix  is  done. 

After  the  cake  has  cooked  for  about  35  minutes,  take  a  spoon  and 
cut  down  the  bottom  of  pan.  Do  this  in  many  places  to  permit  juices  to 
come  through  the  cake. 

Joy  M.  Gambill 

FRESH  PEACH  COBBLER 

1  1/2  cups  thinly  sliced  peaches  1  tbsp.  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  plain  flour 

1/4  cup  water  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  1/4  tsp.  salt. 

1  tbsp.  Crisco  or  butter 

Preheat  oven  to  375  degrees.  Spray  11x7  inch  dish  with  Pam.  In  a 
saucepan,  combine  peaches,  1/2  cup  sugar  and  water.  Bring  to  boil 
stirring  frequently.  Beat  egg,  1/2  cup  sugar  and  shortening  until  fluffy. 
Add  milk  and  stir  in  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Spread  in  dish.  Pour 
peaches  evenly  over  batter.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  peaches  are 
tender. 

*You  may  use  apples,  blackberries,  strawberries  or  blueberries 
instead  of  peaches. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


Desserts  68 


PEACH  COBBLER 

1  cup  sugar  Biscuit  Topping: 

2  tbsp.  cornstarch  1  1/2  cups  biscuit  mix 
1/2  tsp.  cinnamon                              4  tbsp.  sugar 

1  cup  water  2/3  cups  light  cream 

2  tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  2  tsp.  grated  lemon  peel 
5  cups  sliced  fresh  peaches 

Set  oven  at  450  degrees.  Blend  1  cup  sugar,  cornstarch  and  cinnamon  in 
1  quart  saucepan;  add  water.  Bring  to  boil  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
from  heat  and  add  butter  and  peaches.  Pour  into  a  shallow  baking  dish. 

Combine  biscuit  mix  and  2  tbsp.  sugar;  blend  in  cream  with  a  fork. 
Drop  dough  in  6  mounds  around  edge  of  baking  dish.  Combine  the  2 
remaining  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  lemon  peel;  sprinkle  on  dough. 

Bake  25  minutes  or  until  peaches  are  tender  and  biscuits  are 
golden  brown.  Serve  warm  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 
Yields:  6  generous  servings 
Vivian  Gwynn  's  Sister-In-Law  Doris  Pender 

PEACH  CRINKLE 

1  (29  oz.)  can  sliced  peaches  2/3  cup  firmly  packed  light 
(drained)  brown  sugar 

1  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind  1/4  cup  butter  or  margarine 

(optional)  Vanilla  ice  cream 

1  (9  oz.)  pkg.  pie  crust  mix 

Place  peaches  in  a  lightly  greased  12x8x2  inch  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
with  lemon  rind. 

Combine  pie  crust  mix  and  brown  sugar;  sprinkle  over  rind.  Dot 
with  butter.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Serve  with  ice 
cream.  Yields:  6  to  8  servings 

Billie  Johnson 


Desserts  69 


QUICK  COBBLER 

1  cup  sugar  1  qt.  sweetened  fruit  and 

1  cup  self-rising  flour  juice  (apples,  peaches, 

1  cup  milk  strawberries,  etc.) 

1  stick  margarine 

1  tsp.  vanilla  (optional) 

Melt  margarine  in  baking  dish  or  pan.  Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  milk 
and  vanilla.  Stir  well.  Put  fruit  in  baking  dish  or  pan,  add  mixture  and 
bake  at  350  degrees  until  brown. 

Priscilia  Lloyd 

BUTTERMILK  PIE 

1/2  cup  margarine  3  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  buttermilk 

3  rounded  tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla  (lemon  can  be 
dash  nutmeg  (optional)  used) 

Cream  margarine  and  sugar  well.  Add  flour  and  eggs.  Beat  well.  Stir  in 
buttermilk,  vanilla  and  nutmeg.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  45  to  50  minutes. 

Alice  Ivey 

BUTTERMILK  CHESS  PIE 

1  cup  buttermilk  1  tbsp.  cornmeal 

2  cups  sugar  1  tbsp.  flour 

4  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 
1  stick  margarine  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

pinch  salt 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  blender  and  blend  well.  Pour  into  two 
unbaked  pie  shells.    Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  to  45  minutes. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


Desserts  70 


CHESS  PIE 

3  cups  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

1/2  cup  water  1/4  lb.  butter 

1/2  cup  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar  and  flour.  Then  add  well  beaten  eggs,  water 
and  vanilla.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell  and  bake  for  30  minutes  at  425 
degrees. 

Submitted  by  her  daughter  Lora  Wilkerson 

Priscilla  Lloyd 

CHESS  PIE 

1  1/4  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

1/2  stick  butter  1  tbsp.  vinegar 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  and  add  all  other  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie 
shell  and  bake  at  400  degrees  until  done. 

Peggy  Hamlett 

CHOCOLATE  CHESS  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  light  corn  syrup 

3  tbsp.  cornmeal  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  tbsp.  cocoa  1  unbaked  9  inch  pie  shell 

3  eggs  (well  beaten) 
1/2  cup  melted  butter  or 
margarine 

Mix  the  sugar,  cornmeal  and  cocoa  in  a  bowl.  Add  the  eggs,  butter,  corn 
syrup  and  vanilla  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  pie  shell.    Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Daphne  Andrews 


Desserts  7 1 


MINNIE'S  LEMON  CHESS  PIE 

2  cups  sugar  1/4  cup  milk 

1  tbsp.  cornmeal  4  tbsp.  lemon  rind 
4  eggs  1/4  cup  lemon  juice 
1/4  cup  melted  margarine 

Mix  sugar  and  cornmeal.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix  until 
smooth.  Pour  into  crust .  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  45  minutes  or  until 
brown. 

Kitty  Brads  haw 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1/2  stick  margarine  melted  1  small  can  pet  milk 

2  eggs  (beaten)  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  1/2  tbsp.  cocoa  1  1/2  cups  sugar 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  cocoa.  Next,  add  milk,  margarine  and  vanilla. 
Mix  well.  Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  45  minutes. 

Jewel  Crawford 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  tbsp.  flour  2  eggs 

3  tbsp.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Dash  of  salt 

Combine  first  three  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Separate  eggs  and  beat 
yolks.  Add  milk,  salt  and  vanilla  to  yolks  and  add  to  the  first  mixture. 
Pour  into  pan  lined  with  pastry.  Bake  slowly  in  a  350  degree  oven  until 
done. 

Make  a  meringue  of  egg  whites  ,  4  tbsps.  flour  and  sugar.  Beat 
until  stiff.  Add  to  pie  and  return  to  oven  until  meringue  is  lightly 
browned. 

Alice  Ivey 


Desserts  72 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1(1  oz.)  square  chocolate  2  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

1/2  stick  margarine  1/2  cup  undiluted  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs  (beaten) 

1  unbaked  pie  shell 

Melt  margarine  and  chocolate  over  low  heat.  Remove  from  heat.  Mix 
sugar  and  flavoring  with  chocolate  mixture.  Beat  eggs  and  milk  then 
blend  well  with  above  mixture.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.    Bake  at 
350  degrees  until  mixture  is  set,  about  35  minutes. 


Billie  Johnson 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 


1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  tbsp.  cocoa  3  eggs  (separate,  save  whites  for 

3  tbsp  flour  meringue) 

2  tbsp.  margarine,  melted 

Mix  ingredients  well.  Pour  into  deep  dish  pie  shell.  Bake  in  350  degree 
oven  until  pie  is  beginning  to  set  well.  Beat  egg  white,  add  1  tbsp.  sugar 
for  each  white.  Pour  over  pie  and  brown  . 

Decie  Kenyon 

GRAND  CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1  1/2  cups  sugar  3  tbsp  flour 

3  tbsp.  cocoa  3  egg  yolks 

3  tbsp  butter  3  egg  whites 

1  cup  milk 

Stir  dry  ingredients  together  first.  Stir  in  milk,  egg  yolks  and  butter. 
Pour  in  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour 
or  until  firm. 

Meringue:  beat  3  egg  whites  until  still,  add  6  tablespoons  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Add  the  sugar  a  little 
at  time.  Spread  on  pie  and  return  to  oven  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for 
about  12  minutes  or  until  lightly  brown. 
With  Sister-in-Law  Eleanor  Page  Vivian  Gwynn 


Desserts  73 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE 

2  tbsp.  fat  1/4  tsp.  salt 

6  tbsp  flour  2  egg  yolks  beaten 

1  1/2  cups  milk  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  oz.  unsweetened  chocolate  baked  pastry  shell 

(shaved)  2  tbsp.  confectioners  sugar 

3/4  cups  sugar  2  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Melt  fat,  add  flour,  milk,  chocolate,  sugar  and  salt.  Heat  slowly  to 
boiling,  stirring  constantly  until  thick  and  smooth.  Remove  from  heat. 
Add  a  small  amount  of  hot  mixture  to  egg  yolks  then  return  to  chocolate 
mixture.  Add  vanilla.  Turn  into  pastry  shell.  Top  with  meringue  made 
from  egg  whites  and  confectioners  sugar.  Brown  under  broiler.  Whipped 
cream  may  be  substituted  for  meringue.  One-half  cup  chopped  pecans 
may  be  added  to  filling  just  before  turning  into  pastry  shell. 

Priscilia  Lloyd 

FOUR  LAYER  CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1st.  layer:  3rd  layer: 

1  cup  all  purpose  flour  1  large  box  Jello  instant 
1  stick  margarine  softened  chocolate  pudding  mix 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  3  cups  milk 

2nd  layer:  4th  layer: 

1  cup  confectioners  sugar  cool  whip 

1  (8  oz.)  softened  cream  cheese 
1/2  of  13  oz.  cool  whip 

Combine  ingredients  of  first  layer  and  press  into  a  greased  oblong  pyrex 
dish.  Bake  for  20  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Combine  confectioners  sugar,  cream  cheese  and  cool  whip  and 
spread  on  first  layer. 

Combine  pudding  mix  with  milk  and  spread  over  2nd  layer. 

Finally,  spread  remainder  of  cool  whip  on  top  of  3rd  layer  and 
refrigerate. 

Bonnie  Kirk 


Desserts  74 


BUTTERMILK  COCONUT  PIE 

1/2  stick  butter  1/3  cup  buttermilk 

2  eggs  1/2  cup  coconut 

1/2  tsp.  vanilla  1  unbaked  pie  shell 
1  cup  sugar 

Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add  eggs  and  buttermilk.  Beat  well.  Add 
vanilla  and  coconut.  Pour  into  pastry  shell  and  bake  at  375  degrees  for 
30  minutes. 

Phyllis  Padgett 

COCONUT  PIE 

1  1/2  cups  sugar  1  can  baker  angel  flake  coconut 

4  eggs  1/2  cup  buttermilk 

1  stick  butter  melted 

Mix  sugar  and  eggs  together.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix  well. 
Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  45 
minutes.  Makes  2  pies. 


Martha  Kirk 


COCONUT  CREAM  PIE 


1/4  cup  flour  2  tbsp.  butter 

2/3  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/4  tsp.  salt  1  cup  coconut 

2  cups  milk,  scalded  1  10"  pie  shell 

3  egg  yolks 

Mix  together  everything  except  vanilla  .  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Remove  from  heat  and  cool.  Add  vanilla  and  pour  into  pie  shell. 
Top  with  beaten  egg  whites  and  chill. 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Desserts  75 


COCONUT  CREAM  PIE 

4  tbsp.  flour  2  eggs  (save  whites  for 

1  cup  sugar  meringue) 

2  cups  milk  2  tbsp.  margarine 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  small  can  coconut 

Cook  sugar,  flour  and  milk  until  thickened.  Add  margarine,  coconut  and 
vanilla.  Pour  into  baked  deep  dish  pie  shell.  Beat  egg  whites.  Gradually 
add  2  tbsps.  sugar  for  each  white.  Brown  meringue  in  350  degree  oven. 

Decie  Kenyon 

IMPOSSIBLE  COCONUT  PIE 

4  beaten  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  3/4  cups  sugar  1/8  tsp.  salt 
1/2  cup  self-rising  flour  1/2  stick  butter 

2  cups  milk  1  can  coconut 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  milk.  Beat  well.  Add  salt  and  flour.  Mix  well. 
Stir  in  melted  butter,  vanilla  and  coconut.  Pour  into  2  pie  pans.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  25  minutes. 

Vickie  Felmet  McGee 

CUSTARD  PIE 

4  eggs  1  cup  evaporated  milk 

2  cups  sugar  1  stick  butter,  melted 

1  tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  beat  until  smooth.  Pour  into  2 
pie  shells.  Bake  at  350  to  400  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

To  make  chocolate  custard  pie,  add  1  to  2  Tbsps.  cocoa  and  beat 
well. 

Mary  Lin  Truelove 


Desserts 


76 


FRUIT  PIE 


1  can  sweetened  condensed  milk 
Juice  of  2  or  3  lemons 
1  can  sliced  peaches  (drained) 
1  can  crushed  pineapple 
(drained) 


1  small  can  mandarin  oranges 

(drained) 
8  oz.  whipped  topping. 


Mix  sweetened  condensed  milk  with  lemon  juice.  Stir  in  drained  fruit. 
Stir  in  whipped  topping  mix.  Pour  in  2  9-inch  graham  cracker  crusts. 
Refrigerate  for  several  hours,  (preferable  overnight)  before  cutting.  This 
will  keep  for  several  days  in  the  refrigerator. 
And  Sister-in-Law  Doris  Pender  Vivian  Gwynn 


JAPANESE  PIE 


4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 
1  cup  coconut 
1  cup  raisins 
1  cup  nuts 


2  tbsp.  vinegar 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  sticks  margarine 
1/4  tsp.  salt 


Beat  eggs  lightly  with  fork.  Add  rest  of  ingredients  except  margarine. 

Melt  margarine  and  add  to  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  uncooked  pie 

shells.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Turn  oven  to  300  degrees 

and  continue  to  bake  until  done. 

Make  2  pies. 

Submitted  by  Priscilla  Lloyd  Lora  Wilkerson 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  PIE 


1/2  stick  margarine  melted 

1  scant  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  (well  beaten) 
1/2  cup  raisins 


1/2  cup  pecans 

1/2  cup  coconut 

Juice  1/2  lemon 

1  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  bake  in  unbaked  pie  shell  for  40  minutes  at 
300  degrees.  Good  at  Christmas. 

Peggy  Hamlett 


Desserts 


77 


1  cup  sugar 
1/2  cup  milk 
1  tbsp.  vinegar 
1/2  cup  pecans 
1/2  cup  coconut 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  PIE 

1/2  cup  butter 
2  eggs 

1  tbsp.  vanilla 
1/2  cup  raisins 


Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  325 
degrees  for  40  minutes.  Makes  2  pies  or  1  deep  dish  pie. 

Phyllis  Padgett 

LEMON  PIE 


1  1/2  cups  sugar 

3  tbsp.  flour 

4  tbsp.  cornstarch 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

2  1/2  cups  hot  water 

3  egg  yolks  (beaten) 
Juice  of  2  lemons 


Rind  of  1  lemon 

2  tbsp.  margarine 

3  egg  whites 
6  tbsp.  sugar 

2  tsp.  lemon  juice 
1  pie  shell 


Mix  sugar,  flour,  cornstarch  and  salt.  Add  hot  water.  Cook  over  medium 
heat  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  egg  yolks  slowly  to  hot 
mixture.  Cook  for  1  minute  more.  Remove  from  heat  and  add 
margarine,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Mix  well.  Cool.  Bake  pie  shell  and 
cool.  Spread  pie  filling  in  cooled  pie  shell.  Top  with  meringue. 
Meringue:  Beat  3  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Add  lemon  juice  slowly  while 
beating  egg  whites.  Add  sugar  1  tbsp.  at  a  time.  Beat  well  after  each 
addition.  Will  take  about  8  to  10  minutes  to  add  all  of  sugar.  Bake  pie  at 
325  degree  for  approximately  20  minutes  or  until  lightly  brown. 

Let  a  Bradshaw 


Desserts  78 


LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 

2  beaten  egg  yolks  1  can  sweetened  condensed  milk 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  juice  of  3  small  lemons 

2  egg  whites  1  graham  cracker  crust 

Mix  egg  yolks,  condensed  milk  and  lemon  juice  well.  Pour  into  pie 
crust.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  gradually  adding  sugar.  Spread  on  top 
of  pie  and  bake  in  325  degree  oven  until  brown.  Makes  1  pie. 
Vivian  Gwynn  's  Sister  Mildred  Page 

MICROWAVE  LEMON  PIE 

1/4  cup  lemon  juice  1  pkg.  lemon  Jello  (not  instant) 

1/2  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Cool  whip 

Combine  lemon  juice,  sugar  and  Jello.  Beat  in  eggs.  Cover  with  saran 
wrap  and  cook  in  microwave  for  6  minutes  stirring  at  2  minute  intervals. 

Pour  1  cup  in  baked  pie  shell  and  cover  with  plastic  wrap  until 
cool.  Cool  remaining  filling  and  add  1  cup  cool  whip  topping.  Pour  in 
pie  shell  and  top  with  cool  whip  when  chilled. 
Submitted  by  Chris  Gambill  Ruth  Gambill 

LEMON  BLUEBERRY  PIE 

4  cups  blueberries  Dash  of  salt 

3/4  to  1  cup  sugar  1/2  tsp.  cinnamon 

3  tbsp.  flour  1/2  tsp.  nutmeg 

1/2  tsp.  grated  lemon  peel  1  uncooked  pie  shell 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  in  large  bowl;  pour  in  pie  shell.  Sprinkle 
with  lemon  juice  and  dot  with  butter  or  margarine.  Bake  at  400  degrees 
until  crust  is  brown. 

Jenny  Herring  Bryant 


Desserts  79 


CHIPPIE'  S  LEMON  CHESS  PIE 
(Chippie  was  a  famous  old  Southern  cook) 
2  cups  sugar  1/4  cup  melted  butter 

1  tbsp.  cornmeal  1/4  cup  milk 

4  eggs  (unbeaten)  4  tbsp.  grated  lemon  rind 

1/4  cup  lemon  juice 

Line  a  9  inch  pie  pan  with  pastry.  Put  sugar  and  cornmeal  into  a  large 
bowl  and  toss  lightly  with  a  fork.  Add  eggs,  butter,  milk  ,  lemon  rind 
and  lemon  juice.  Beat  until  smooth  and  pour  into  the  unbaked  pie  shell. 
Bake  at  375  degrees  for  35  to  45  minutes  or  until  golden  brown. 

Rebecca  Crawford 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  lemon  juice 
4  tbsp.  cornstarch 

1/4  tsp.  salt  3  egg  whites 

2  cups  milk  3  tbsp.  sugar 

3  egg  yolks 

3  tbsp.  margarine  1  deep  dish  pie  shell 

1  tsp.  grated  lemon  peel 

Add  small  amount  of  milk  to  dry  ingredients  using  wire  whisk. 
Gradually  add  remaining  milk.  Cook  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly 
to  keep  from  sticking.  Stir  small  amount  of  milk  mixture  into  egg  yolks. 
Gradually  add  to  milk  mixture.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  lemon 
juice  and  margarine.  Pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Beat  egg  whites  for 
meringue  gradually  adding  3  tbsps.  sugar.  Bake  in  325  degree  oven  until 
brown. 

Decie  Kenyon 


Desserts  80 


LEMON  MERINGUE 

1  box  vanilla  wafers  2  cans  Eaglebrand  sweetened 
4  lemons  condensed  milk 

4  eggs  4  tbsp.  sugar 

In  (2)  10-inch  pyrex  pie  plates,  arrange  vanilla  wafers  to  form  crust. 

In  a  large  mixing  bowl,  mix  condensed  milk  and  egg  yolks  well; 
then  add  juice  from  4  lemons  and  mix  well.  Pour  over  vanilla  wafer 
crust.  Beat  egg  whites,  adding  1  tbsp.  of  sugar  for  each  egg  white.  Beat 
egg  whites,  add  sugar  and  beat  again  until  meringue  is  smooth.  Spread 
over  lemon  mixture.  Bake  at  400  degrees  until  golden  brown. 

Patricia  Ross 

PECAN  PIE 

1/2  cup  white  sugar  2  Tbsp.  butter 

2  eggs  2  Tbsp.  flour 
1/4  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  white  karo  syrup  1  cup  nuts 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Cream  with  butter.  Beat  eggs  until 
foamy  .  Add  to  creamed  mixture.  Mix  well.  Add  syrup,  flavoring  and 
nuts.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  10  minutes,  reduce  heat  to  350  degrees 
and  bake  approximately  45  minutes  or  until  pie  will  not  shake  in  crust. 

Martha  Kirk 

PECAN  PIE 

2  eggs  2  cups  light  brown  sugar 
1  Tbsp.  flour  1/3  cup  milk 

1/4  cup  melted  butter  1  cup  pecans 

Mix  ingredients  well  and  pour  into  pie  crust.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes  or  until  brown. 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Desserts  81 


PECAN  PIE 


1  box  of  brown  sugar  1  tbsp.  vanilla 

4  tbsp.  melted  butter  10  tbsp.  evaporated  milk 

4  eggs  1  cup  pecans 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  into  pie  shells.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
about  one  hour.  Makes  2  pies  or  16  tarts. 

Viola  Deal 


SOUTHERN  PECAN  PIE 

1  (9")  unbaked  pie  shell  2/3  cup  dark  corn  syrup 

3  eggs  1/3  cup  melted  butter 

2/3  cup  sugar  2  cups  chopped  pecans 
dash  of  salt 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly  with  sugar,  salt,  corn  syrup  and  melted  butter.  Add 
pecans.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  50  minutes. 

Shirley  Rishel 


AUNT  LOIS'  PECAN  PIE 

1/4  cup  butter  (melted)  1  cup  light  corn  syrup 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

1/4  tsp.  salt  1  cup  pecans  (chopped) 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  well  in  order  given  and  pour  in  uncooked  pie  crust.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  1  hour.  Makes  1  large  9  inch  pie  or  two  small  pies. 

Susan  Trollinger 


Desserts  82 


PECAN  PIE 

1  stick  margarine  2  tsp.  vinegar 

3  tbsp.  flour  1  1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  box  light  brown  sugar  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

3  eggs 

6  Tbsp.  milk  2  pie  shells 

Melt  margarine  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Mix  flour  and  sugar  together.  Add 
milk  and  eggs.  Beat  well.  Stir  in  vinegar  and  vanilla.  Add  margarine 
and  pecans.  Pour  in  2  pie  crusts  and  place  in  cold  oven.  Bake  at  300 
degrees  for  1  hour. 

Paige  H.  Winslow 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

4  large  sweet  potatoes  1  stick  margarine 
4  eggs  1  tbsp.  vanilla 

1  3/4  cups  sugar  1  tbsp.  cinnamon 

Enough  milk  to  mix  well 

Boil  potatoes  until  done.  Put  in  cool  water.  Then  peel  potatoes  and  mix 
all  above  ingredients  together.  Pour  in  2  pie  shells  and  bake  at  350 
degrees  for  1  hour. 
Makes  2  pies  or  1  deep  dish  pie. 

Vivian  Gwynn 


Desserts  83 


SENSATIONAL  DOUBLE  LAYER  PUMPKIN  PIE 

Crust:  Filling: 

1  large  graham  cracker  pie  1  pkg.  (3  oz.)  cream  cheese, 

crust  softened 

1/3  cup  butter  1  cup  plus  1  Tbsp.  cold  half  & 
1/4  cup  packed  light  brown  half  or  milk 

sugar  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

2  Tbsp.  water  1  1/2  cups  cool  whip 

1  Tbsp.  cornstarch  2  sm.  pkgs.  vanilla  instant 

2/3  cup  coarsely  chopped  pecans  Jello  pudding 

1  16  oz.  can  pumpkin 
1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon 
1/2  tsp.  ground  ginger 
1/4  tsp.  ground  cloves 

CRUST:  Place  butter  in  microwave.  Cook  on  high  for  1  minute  until 
melted.  Add  sugar,  water  and  cornstarch.  Stir  with  whisk  until  smooth. 
Cook  on  high  for  1  minute  until  mixture  comes  to  full  boil,  stir  in 
chopped  pecans.  Spread  mixture  on  bottom  of  crust.  Place  crust.in 
freezer  while  preparing  filling.  Carefully  spread  filling  over  pecan  layer. 
Chill  pie  for  3  to  4  hours  in  refrigerator. 

FILLING:  Mix  cream  cheese,  1  Tbsp.  half  and  half  and  sugar  with  wire 
whisk  until  smooth.  Gently  stir  in  whipped  topping.  Spread  on  crust. 
Pour  1  cup  half  and  half  into  mixing  bowl.  Add  pudding  mix.  Beat  with 
wire  whisk  until  well  blended,  1  to  2  minutes.  Let  stand  3  minutes. 
STIR  in  pumpkin  and  spices.  Mix  well.  Spread  over  cream  cheese  layer. 
Refrigerator.  Garnish  with  additional  whipped  topping  and  nuts  as 
desired. 

Phyllis  Padgett 

THREE  KITTEN  PIE 

1  3  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  3/4  cup  crunchy  peanut  butter 

(softened)  8  oz.  whipped  topping 

1/2  cup  sugar  1  graham  cracker  pie  crust 


Desserts 


84 


Using  an  electric  mixer,  mix  cream  cheese,  sugar  and  peanut  butter  in 
large  bowl.  Add  whipped  topping.  Pour  into  pie  crust.  Chill  one  hour 
before  serving. 

Aaron  Kirk 

APPLE  NUT  CAKE 


3  cups  apples  (Tart-Winesap) 
3  cups  flour  (plain) 
1  tsp.  soda 
1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  pecans 

2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar 

1  1/2  cups  Mazola  oil 

3  eggs 


Brown  Sugar  Glaze: 
1  stick  margarine 
1/4  cup  milk  (evaporated) 
1  cup  light  brown  sugar 


Butter  and  flour  pan.  Grate  apples  (course)  or  slice  thin  about  the  size  of 
an  almond  slivered.  Put  all  ingredients  in  mixing  bowl.  Beat  eggs  well 
and  add  to  other  ingredients.  Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Pour  mixture  in 
floured  and  greased  pan  (13"  x  9"  x  2").  Bake  for  45  minutes  to  1  hour 
at  350  degrees. 

GLAZE:  Bring  mixture  to  boil.  Pour  over  warm  cake.  Let  cake  set 
overnight  for  best  flavor. 

Ann  Nicholson 

APPLE  -  RAISIN  CAKE 


3  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  cooking  oil 

2  1/2  cups  plain  flour 
2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  tsp.  soda 

1  tsp.  salt 


1  tsp.  nutmeg 

3  cups  chopped  raw  apples 

1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice  or  flavoring 


Mix  eggs,  sugar  and  oil.  Sift  flour,  soda,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
nutmeg.  Flour  raisins  with  small  amount  of  the  flour.  Combine  raisins, 
apples,  nuts  with  cake.  Beat  in  mixer.  Put  in  tube  pan.  Bake  1  hour  in 
350  degree  oven. 

Ethel  Cheek 


Desserts 


85 


APPLE  ROMAN  CAKE 


Topping: 

1  tbsp.  melted  margarine 

2  tsp.  cinnamon 

1/3  cup  brown  sugar 

2  tsp.  flour 

1/2  cup  chopped  nuts  or  coconut 

(optional) 
1/4  cup  rolled  oats 


1  cup  sugar 

2  1/4  cups  flour 
1/4  tsp.  salt 

3/8  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  1/2  tsp.  soda 
1/2  tsp.  cloves 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

2/3  cup  shortening 

2  eggs 

2/3  cup  milk 
1  1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

3  cups  raw  apples,  pared  and 
chopped 


Combine  sugar,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  soda,  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Beat  in  shortening  ,eggs,  milk  and  vanilla.  Add  apples  and  mix  well. 
Pour  into  greased  and  floured  9x13  pan.  Crumble  topping  mixture 
together  and  cover  cake.  Bake  in  a  preheated  350  degree  oven  for  35  to 
40  minutes.  Serves  12-16 


Joy  Gambill 


APRICOT  LEMON  SUPREME  CAKE 


1/2  cup  cooking  oil 

1/2  cup  sugar 

4  eggs—partly  beaten 

1  box  lemon  supreme  cake  mix 

1  cup  apricot  nectar 


Topping: 

2  lemons 

1/8  cup  apricot  nectar 

2  cups  powdered  sugar 


Mix  cake  ingredients  slowly  until  there  are  no  lumps.  Bake  in  a  tube  pan 
at  350  degrees  for  1  hour.  While  cake  is  baking,  mix  the  juice  for  the 
topping.  When  cake  comes  out  of  the  oven,  mix  topping  until  smooth. 
Poke  holes  in  the  cake  with  a  fork  and  pour  topping  over  the  top  of  cake 
while  it  is  still  hot . 

Pat  Griggs 


Desserts  86 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

3  1/2  cups  plain  flour  2  cups  floured  raisins 

2  tsp.  soda  2  cups  floured  chopped  nuts 

2  tsp.  cinnamon  2  cups  hot  thick  applesauce 

1  tsp.  cloves  (optional)  1  sm.  pkg.  chopped  red  candied 

1  cup  softened  margarine  cherries 

2  cups  sugar  1  sm.  pkg.  chopped  green 

3  eggs  (beaten)  candied  cherries 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  sm.  pkg.  candied  chopped 

pineapple 

Cream  margarine  and  sugar,  add  eggs.  Mix  3  cups  plain  flour  with  soda, 
cinnamon  and  cloves  (optional).  Cover  raisins,  nuts,  cherries  and 
pineapple  with  1/2  cup  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  hot  applesauce  to  batter 
and  blend  well  then  add  raisins,  nuts,  etc.  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased 
and  floured  tube  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  approximately  2  hours. 
(Excellent  Christmas  Cake). 

Decie  Kenyon 

BLACK  MIDNIGHT  CAKE 

2  1/4  cups  cake  flour  1/4  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  2/3  cups  sugar  1  1/4  cups  water 

2/3  cups  cocoa  1/4  cup  shortening 

1  1/4  tsp.  baking  soda  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Preheat  oven  at  350  degrees.  Grease  and  flour  two  9  "  cake  pans  or  one 
13"  x  9"  oblong  pan.  Measure  all  ingredients  into  large  mixing  bowl. 
Blend  1/2  min.  on  low,  scraping  bowl  constantly.  Beat  3  minutes  on 
high  speed.  Pour  into  pans.  Bake  30  minutes  for  two  9  "  round  pans  or 
45  minutes  for  one  13'  x  9"  pan. 

Shirley  Rishel 


Desserts 


87 


BROWN  SUGAR  NUT  POUND  CAKE 


1  lb.  brown  sugar 
1  cup  granulated  sugar 
1  cup  shortening  or  butter 
1/2  cup  Crisco 
3  cups  plain  flour  (measure 
before  sifted) 


1/2  tsp.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  milk 
5  large  eggs 

2  cups  broken  pecans 


Cream  shortening,  butter  and  sugars.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Mix  dry 
ingredients,  sift  several  times  and  stir  into  creamed  mixture.  Add  milk 
and  vanilla.  Grease  tube  pan  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Add  half  of  nuts 
to  batter  and  sprinkle  other  nuts  over  cake  after  you  put  batter  into  pan. 
Bake  325  degrees  for  1  1/2  hours. 
Submitted  by  Patsy  Ray  Rosa  McFarling 

CARROT  PINEAPPLE  CAKE 


1  1/2  cups  plain  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

1/2  cup  oil 

1  cup  shredded  carrot 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/2  cup  crushed  pineapple 

with  syrup 
Mix  together  dry  ingredients.  Add  oil,  eggs,  carrots,  pineapple  and 
vanilla.  Beat  2  minutes  with  mixer.  Pour  into  long  pan  or  2  9"  pans. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes. 
Frosting:  Mix  all  ingredients  well  and  frost  cake  after  it  has  cooled. 

Decie  Kenyon 


Frosting: 

1  (3  oz.)  pkg.  softened  cream 

cheese 
4  Tbsp.  softened  margarine 
1  tsp.  vanilla 
dash  salt 

1  box  confectionery  sugar 
1/2  cup  chopped  pecans 


Desserts 


88 


1-2-3  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 


STEP1: 

2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

dash  salt 

1/  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

STEP  2: 

1  cup  water 

1  stick  margarine 

1/2  cup  Crisco  oil 

4  Tbsp.  cocoa 


STEP  3: 

2  beaten  eggs 

1/2  cup  buttermilk 

FROSTING: 

4  tbsp.  milk 

1  stick  margarine 

4  tbsp.  cocoa 

1  box  confectionery  sugar 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  tsp.  vanilla 


Step  1 :  Mix  all  ingredients  in  large  bowl  and  set  aside. 

Step  2:  Mix  water,  margarine,  oil  and  cocoa  in  saucepan,  bring  to  boil 

and  boil  1  minute  stirring  constantly.  Blend  into  dry  ingredients  that 

have  been  set  aside. 

Step  3 :  Add  eggs  and  buttermilk  to  mixture.  Mix  together  well  and  pour 

into  greased  and  floured  long  cake  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30 

minutes. 

Icing:  Bring  milk  and  margarine  to  boil.  Remove  from  heat  and  blend  in 

cocoa,  confectionery  sugar,  nuts  and  vanilla.  Pour  over  warm  cake. 

Decie  Kenyon 


CHOCOLATE  OR  PLAIN  POUND  CAKE 


1  cup  or  1/2  lb.  butter  or 

margarine  (softened) 
1/2  cup  snowdrift 
3  cups  sugar 
5  eggs 
3  cups  cake  flour 


4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1/2  tsp.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk 

2  tsp.  vanilla 


Desserts  89 


Cream  together  margarine  and  snowdrift.  Add  sugar  and  eggs  (one  egg 
at  the  time)and  mix  well.  Sift  together  next  4  ingredients  (flour,  cocoa, 
salt,  baking  powder).  Add  this  to  creamed  mixture  alternating  with  milk 
and  vanilla  that  has  been  mixed  together.  If  a  plain  cake  is  desired,  leave 
out  the  cocoa.  When  I  cook  a  plain  pound  cake,  I  use  1  tsp.  lemon  and  1 
tsp.  vanilla  flavoring. 

Bake  in  a  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  for  1  hour  and  25  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven  at  325  degrees.  Check  for  doneness  with  a  cake 
tester  at  the  end  of  1  hour. 

Billie  Johnson 

CHOCOLATE  SHEET  CAKE 

Step  1:  Icing: 

2  cups  sugar  4  Tbsp.  milk 

2  cups  plain  unsifted  flour  1  stick  margarine 

Step  2:  4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1  cup  water  1  Tbsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

1  cup  oil  1  box  confectionery  sugar 

1  stick  margarine 
4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

Step  3: 
111  cup  buttermilk 

2  eggs 

1  tsp.  soda 

dash  of  salt 

Step  1 :  Mix  sugar  and  flour  well  in  a  large  bowl. 

Step  2:  Mix  in  a  saucepan  water,  oil,  margarine,  cocoa  and  bring  to  a 

boil.  Boil  for  1  minute  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over  sugar  and  flour 

mixture  stirring  well 

Step  3:  Add  buttermilk,  eggs,  soda  and  salt  to  mixture.  Mix  all 

ingredients  well  and  pour  into  greased  and  floured  pan,  13x9x2.  Bake  at 

350  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

Icing:  Bring  milk,  cocoa,  margarine  and  vanilla  to  boil.  Remove  from 

heat  and  stir  in  1  box  confectionery  sugar,  add  extra  milk  if  needed. 

Pour  over  hot  cake  as  soon  as  it  comes  from  the  oven. 

Billie  Johnson 


Desserts 


90 


CHOCOLATE  CHIP  CAKE 


1  box  Duncan  Hines  Yellow 

Cake  Mix 
4  eggs 
1  cup  water 
1  sm.  pkg.  chocolate  chips 


1  sm.  box  vanilla  instant  pudding 
1/2  cup  oil 

1/2  bar  Germans  Sweet 
Chocolate 


Mix  all  ingredients  (except  the  chocolate  and  chips)  together  with  an 
electric  mixer  for  5  minutes.  Grate  in  the  half  bar  of  chocolate.  Stir  in 
the  chips.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  1  hour.  Serves:  10 

Pat  Griggs 

GERMAN  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 


Frosting: 

1  1/2  cups  evaporated  milk 

1  1/2  cups  sugar 

4  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks 

3/4  cups  butter 

1  1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  angel  flake  coconut 
1  1/2  cups  chopped  pecans 


1  pkg.  Bakers  German  Sweet 

Chocolate 
1/2  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  butter  or  margarine 

2  cups  sugar 
4  egg  yolks 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  1/2  cups  Swans  Down  Cake 

Flour 
1  tsp.  baking  soda 
1/2  tsp.  salt 
1  cup  buttermilk 
4  egg  whites  stiffly  beaten 

Melt  chocolate  in  boiling  water.  Cool.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until 
fluffy.  Add  yolks,  one  at  a  time  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Blend 
in  vanilla  and  chocolate.  Sift  flour  with  soda  and  salt;  add  alternately 
with  buttermilk  to  chocolate  mixture  beating  after  each  addition  until 
mixed.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  3  9-inch  layered  pans.  Line 
pans  with  paper.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Cool 
completely  and  frost  tops  only. 

Coconut  Pecan  Frosting:  Combine  all  ingredients  except  coconut  and 
pecans  in  a  saucepan.  Cook  and  stir  over  medium  heat  until  thickened. 
Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  coconut  and  pecans.  Cool  until  thick  enough 
to  spread. 
Vivian  Gwynn  And  Vivian 's  sister  Mildred  Page 


Desserts  9 1 


COCONUT  DESSERT 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  Buttery  Filling: 

Cake  Mix  1  cup  sugar 

2  pkgs.  frozen  coconut 
12  oz.  sour  cream 

Mix  cake  according  to  directions  on  box.  Pour  into  4  layer  pans  and 
bake  as  directed.  Cool  layers  completely. 

Filling:  Mix  with  spoon  not  mixer.  Spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 
Store  in  refrigerator  for  3  days  before  cutting.  Keep  refrigerated  until 
eaten. 

Billie  Johnson 

AUNT  GRACE'S  COCONUT  CAKE 

1  box  yellow  or  white  cake  Filling: 

mix  1  cup  milk 

2  pkgs.  frozen  coconut 
2  Tbsp.  flour 
Juice  from  1  lemon 
2  cups  sugar 

Mix  and  bake  cake  according  to  package  directions. 

Filling:  Mix  all  filling  ingredients  and  cook  stirring  constantly  until 

mixture  becomes  a  little  thick.  Pour  on  cake  layers  while  they  are  hot 

and  while  filling  is  hot.  (This  will  run  so  be  patient  and  keep  spooning 

mixture  on  the  cake).  Refrigerator  cake  overnight. 

"Great  Coconut  Cake!" 

Susan  Trollinger 


Desserts  92 


CRUSTY  TOP  CREAM  CHEESE  POUND  CAKE 

1  cup  butter,  soft  3  cups  cake  flour 

1/2  cup  shortening  6  eggs 

3  cups  sugar  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

1  -  8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 
(softened) 

Cream  butter  and  shortening,  gradually  add  sugar;  beat  well  at  medium 
speed.  Add  cream  cheese  and  beat  until  light  and  fluffy.  Alternately  add 
flour  and  eggs.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  cake  pan. 
Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour  and  30  minutes.  *Check  cake  with 
toothpick  to  make  sure  it  is  done  -  cake  may  need  to  stay  in  longer  since 
ovens  vary.  Cool  10  minutes. 

Cindy  Mclntyre 

DATE  CAKE 

1  cup  boiling  water  Icing: 

1/4  lb.  (1  cup)  chopped  dates  4  tbsps.  margarine  -  melted 

1  tsp.  soda  1/2  cup  light  brown  sugar 

1  cup  sugar  2  tbsp.  milk 

1/2  cup  Crisco  1/2  cup  coconut 

1/2  stick  margarine  1/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

legg 

1  1/2  cups  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Pour  boiling  water  over  dates  and  soda.  Let  stand  while  mixing  batter. 
Cream  sugar  and  shortening.  Add  egg,  beat  again.  Add  flour  and  salt 
alternately  with  date  and  soda  mixture.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased 
and  floured  9  by  12  inch  pan.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  45  minutes. 
Immediately  after  cake  is  baked,  mix  ingredients  for  icing  and  spread 
over  cake.  Put  back  into  oven  and  broil  until  lightly  browned.  Cool 
before  serving. 

Mae  Crawford 


Desserts  93 


DENVER  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING  CAKE 

3/4  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

1/4  tsp.  salt  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Sift  above  ingredients.  Melt  in  double  boiler:  2  tbsp.  butter  and  1 
square  unsweetened  chocolate;  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Add  1/2  cup 
milk,  1/2  tsp.  vanilla,  1/2  cup  walnuts  (optional).  Mix  together.  Pour 
into  greased  9x9  pan.  Mix  and  sprinkle  over  top  of  this,  1/2  cup  sugar, 
1/2  cup  brown  sugar  and  4  tbsp.  cocoa.  Pour  1  1/2  cup  hot  water  over 
all.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes.  Cool  and  serve,  plain  or  with 
ice  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Chris  Green 

DIRT  CAKE 

1  flower  pot  4  cups  milk 

1  1/2  Ig.  bags  oreo  cookies  2  small  pkgs.  instant  French 

3/4  stick  margarine  Vanilla  Pudding 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  softened  12  oz.  cool  whip 

1/3  cup  powdered  sugar 

Crush  cookies  in  blender  and  set  aside.  Cream  together  in  medium  bowl 
margarine,  cream  cheese  and  powdered  sugar.  In  a  large  bowl,  mix  milk 
and  pudding.  When  set,  fold  in  cool  whip.  Blend  cream  cheese  mixture 
and  pudding  mixture.  Layer  oreos  and  pudding  beginning  and  ending 
with  oreos.  Top  with  artificial  flower  for  the  season.  I  serve  with  a 
trowel  or  other  garden  tool. 

Viola  Deal 

EARTHQUAKE  CAKE 
1  box  German  Chocolate  Cake         1  cup  coconut 

mix  8  oz.  cream  cheese 

1  cup  chopped  pecans  1  stick  butter 

1  box  confectioners  sugar 
Grease  9"  x  13"  pan.  Mix  nuts  and  coconut  and  pour  on  bottom  of  pan. 
Pat  down.  Mix  cake  according  to  directions  on  box.  Pour  over  nuts  and 
coconut.  Melt  cream  cheese  and  butter,  mix  in  confectioners  sugar. 
Spoon  over  cake  mixture.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Bonnie  Kirk 


Desserts 


94 


FRUIT  CAKE 


PARTI: 

2  slices  red  &  green 

pineapple  -  cut 
1/2  lb.  red  cherries 
1/2  lb.  green  cherries 
1  lb.  mixed  fruit 
1  box  white  (light)  raisins 
1  box  unsugared  dates  -  cut 

3  cups  chopped  pecans 

1  cup  English  walnuts  chopped 
(sprinkle  flour  over  nuts) 


PART  2 

1  pound  butter 
3  1/2  cups  sugar 
12  eggs 

2  tbsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  self-rising  flour 
2  cups  plain  flour 


Cream  together  all  ingredients  in  part  2.  Pour  part  1  over  part  2  and  mix 
well.  Pour  all  into  well-greased  roaster  pan  (no  top).  Bake  at  300 
degrees  for  30  minutes  and  stir. 
Cook  20  minutes  and  stir. 
Cook  20  minutes  and  stir. 
Cook  20  minutes  and  stir. 

Take  out  and  pack,  while  hot.  in  greased  tube  pan.  Let  set  at  least  1  1/2 
hours  (overnight)  before  turning  out. 

You  may  want  to  decorate  top  of  cake  with  nuts,  cherries  and  pineapple. 

Joanna  Bradshaw 

FRUITED  POUND  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 

1  8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  1/2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs 

1  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  1/2  cups  plain  flour 
1  lb.  candied  cherries 


2  sm.  containers  green  candied 

pineapple 
1/2  cup  golden  raisins 
1/2  cup  dates 
1  cup  pecans 
1  lemon  rind  grated 
Vanilla 


Desserts  95 


Add  sugar  to  soft  butter  and  cream  cheese.  Mix  until  creamy.  Add  eggs 
one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each.  Combine  1  3/4  cups  flour  with  baking 
powder  and  sift.  Dredge  fruits  and  nuts  in  remaining  flour.  Stir  into 
mixture.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour  and  10  minutes.  Let  stand  10 
minutes  before  removing  from  pan.  (I  use  a  tube  pan  greased  and 
sprinkled  with  sugar) 

(Copied from  "Southern  Living"  15 years  Patsy  Ray 

ago.) 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL  CAKE 

1  1/3  cups  sugar  Icing: 

2  tsp.  soda  1  1/2  cups  sugar 

1  can  fruit  cocktail  (undrained)       1  stick  margarine 

2  cups  self  rising  flour  1  cup  pecans  (chopped) 
2  eggs  1  cup  milk  (evaporated) 

1  cup  coconut 

Sift  sugar,  flour  and  baking  soda  in  large  mixing  bowl.  Now  mix  in  eggs 
and  fruit  cocktail  including  liquid.  Mix  well  by  hand.  Pour  into  2 
buttered  9  inch  cake  pans.  Cook  in  preheated  oven  at  350  degrees  about 
20  minutes  or  until  done.  Let  cool  10  minutes  before  icing. 
Icing:  Mix  all  ingredients  together  except  coconut  and  pecans  and  cook 
5  minutes  after  bringing  to  a  boil.  Cool  icing  a  few  minutes  then  add 
coconut  and  pecans.  Ice  layers. . 

Billie  Johnson 

GERMAN  STYLE  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

1  cup  chopped  pecans  1  stick  margarine 

1  cup  coconut  1  8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  box  German  Chocolate  cake  1  box  confectioners  sugar 

mix  (Betty  Crocker 

Super  Moist)  pudding  in 

mix 

Grease  and  flour  9x13x2  sheet  cake  pan.  Layer  pecans  and  coconut  on 
top.  Mix  cake  mix  according  to  directions.  Pour  cake  mix  over  top  of 
coconut.  Mix  softened  margarine,  cream  cheese  and  one  box 
confectioners  sugar  until  well  blended  by  mixer.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  until 
cake  is  covered.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes.  Remove  from 
oven  and  let  set  5  to  15  minutes.  Turn  out  on  foil  or  square  cake  dish. 

Lila  Kirk 


Desserts  96 


UPSIDE  DOWN  GERMAN  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Sprinkle  1  1/2  cups  chopped  pecans  and  one  can  coconut  in  the  bottom 

of  a  9x13  baking  pan. 

Mix  German  Chocolate  cake  mix  according  to  package  directions. 

Pour  over  the  coconut  and  pecans. 

Cream  1  stick  margarine,  1  box  powdered  sugar,  and  1  (8  oz.) 

package  cream  cheese.  Drop  mixture  over  batter  and  swirl. 

Bake  at  350  degrees  for  45-50  minutes.  (Time  may  vary  according  to 

your  oven.) 

Pat  Vandiviere 


HEART  SAFE  TWO  LAYER  CAKE 

1  1/2  cups  sifted  flour  1  cup  sugar 

1/2  cup  cocoa  Egg  beaters  or  Scramblers  equal 

1/2  tsp.  baking  powder  to  2  eggs 

1/2  tsp.  baking  soda  1  cup  low-fat  buttermilk 

1  cup  Fleischmann's  margarine  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Pre-heat  oven  to  350  degrees.  Combine  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
cocoa  and  soda.  Cream  margarine  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add 
egg  beaters.  Add  buttermilk,  vanilla  and  flour.  Beat  2  minutes.  Bake  in 

2  nine-inch  layer  pans. 

Patsy  Ray 


Desserts  97 


HUMMINGBIRD  CAKE 

3  cups  all-purpose  flour  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

2  cups  sugar  2  cups  chopped  bananas 
1  tsp.  baking  soda  1/2  chopped  pecans 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  ground  cinnamon  Cream  Cheese  Frosting: 

3  eggs,  beaten  1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 
1  cup  vegetable  oil  1/2  cup  butter 

1  1/2  tsp.  vanilla  extract  1  (16  oz.)  box  powdered  sugar 

1  (8  oz.)  can  crushed  sifted 

pineapple,  undrained  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon  in  a  large  mixing  bowl. 
Add  eggs  and  oil,  stirring  until  dry  ingredients  are  moistened.  DO  NOT 
BEAT.  Stir  in  vanilla,  pineapple,  1  cup  pecans  and  bananas.  Spoon 
batter  into  3  greased  and  floured  9  inch  cake  pans.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  a  wooden  pick  inserted  in  center  comes  out 
clean.  Cool  in  pans  10  minutes,  remove  from  pans  and  cool  completely. 
Spread  frosting  between  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Sprinkle 
1/2  cup  pecans  on  top. 

FROSTING:  Combine  softened  cream  cheese  and  butter  beating  until 
smooth.  Add  powdered  sugar  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Yield:  One  frosted  3  layer  cake 

Billie  Johnson 

HERSHEY  BAR  CAKE 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  Fudge  Cake      Icing: 

Mix  1  (8  oz.)  cream  cheese 

3  eggs  1/2  cup  granulated  sugar 

3/4  cup  oil  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  1/2  cups  milk  12  oz.  cool  whip 

1  small  instant  vanilla  pudding         4  Hershey  bars 
Mix  well  cake  mix,  eggs,  oil,  milk  and  pudding  mix.  Pour  into  cake 
pans  and  bake  at  350  degrees  until  done. 

Icing:  Cream  together  cheese  and  sugars.  Add  12  oz.  cool  whip  and  mix 
well.  Spread  icing  between  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Chill 
Hershey  bars,  grate  and  sprinkle  on  icing  or  mix  into  icing  and  spread 
on  cake. 

Glenda  Satterfield 


Desserts 


98 


ICE  BOX  FRUIT  CAKE 


2  (11  oz.)  pkg.  vanilla  wafers 
(crushed) 

1  -  6  oz.  orange  juice 

2  - 1  lb.  pkg.  mixed  fruit  cake 

mix 
1  lb.  chopped  pecans 
1  cup  golden  raisins 


1  cup  dark  raisins 
1  cup  chopped  figs 
1  -  8  oz.  chopped  dates 
1  lg.  can  evaporated  milk 
Dash  of  salt 
1/2  tsp.  nutmeg 
1/2  tsp.  cinnamon 


Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Pack  in  pans  and  refrigerate  at  least  2  days 
before  serving.  Makes  about  5  pounds. 

Nancy  Holt 

ITALIAN  CREME  CAKE 


1  stick  butter 
1/2  cup  Crisco 

2  cups  sugar 

5  eggs  (separated) 

2  cups  self  rising  flour 

1  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  buttermilk 

1  cup  pecans 

1  cup  angel  flake  coconut 

1  tsp.  vanilla 


Icing: 

1  -  8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  -  3  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  1/2  box  4  xxxx  sugar 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  pecans 

3/4  stick  butter 

milk  (enough  to  spread) 


Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks  to  sugar  and  butter 

mixture.  Add  flour  and  soda  alternately  with  buttermilk.  Beat  egg 

whites,  fold  into  mixture  and  add  pecans,  coconut  and  vanilla.  Pour  into 

4  layer  pans  and  bake  at  350  degrees  until  done. 

ICING:  Cream  butter,  cream  cheese  and  sugar.  Add  vanilla  and  pecans. 

Add  enough  milk  to  make  icing  spreading  consistency. 

Handed  down  from  her  Mother  Denise  Hudson 

Marlene  Perry  Mills 


Desserts 


99 


MILKY  WONDER  CAKE 


ICING: 

1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1  box  powdered  sugar 

1  stick  butter 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

nuts  if  desired 


6  milky  way  bars 

1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 
4  eggs 

2  1/2  cups  sifted  flour 
1/2  tsp.  baking  soda 
1  1/4  cups  buttermilk 
1  tsp.  vanilla 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 


Melt  bars  and  1/2  cup  butter  in  saucepan  over  low  heat.  Cream 
remaining  butter  and  sugar  until  fluffy.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beat 
well.  Add  flour  and  soda  alternately  with  buttermilk  stir  until  smooth. 
Add  melted  candy,  mix  well.  Stir  in  vanilla  and  nuts.  Top  with  icing. 

Pom  Kirk 

MISSISSIPPI  MUD  CAKE 


Chocolate  Frosting: 

1  stick  margarine 

6  Tbsps.  milk 

1/4  cup  cocoa 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  box  confectioners'  sugar 

pinch  of  salt 


2  sticks  margarine 

1/2  cup  cocoa 

2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs  beaten 

1  1/2  cups  plain  flour 

pinch  salt 

1  1/2  cups  chopped  nuts 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  10  oz.  bag  miniature 

marshmallows 
Melt  margarine  over  low  heat.  Add  cocoa  and  mix  well.  Remove  from 
heat  and  pour  into  mixing  bowl.  Add  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  eggs  and 
mix  well.  Add  flour,  salt,  vanilla  and  nuts.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  a  9x13 
greased  and  floured  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  to  45  minutes. 
(Center  will  spring  back  when  done).  Remove  from  oven  and  cover  cake 
completely  with  marshmallows.  Prepare  frosting  and  pour  over  cake. 
(Cake  will  look  lumpy  on  top  -  note  the  name  of  recipe). 
FROSTING:  Bring  the  first  4  ingredients  (margarine,  milk  cocoa  and 
vanilla)  to  boil.  Add  sugar  and  salt  beating  well.  Pour  over 
marshmallows. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


Desserts  100 


NETTIE  DODSON'S  MOLASSES  CAKE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tsp.  soda 
1/2  Cup  Crisco  2  tsp.  ginger 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  cinnamon 
3/4  cup  molasses  1/2  tsp.  salt 

2  3/4  cups  plain  flour  1  cup  Buttermilk 

**  DO  NOT  USE  A  MIXER,  STIR  BY  HAND.  Cream  Crisco  and 
sugar.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well.  Add  combined  dry  ingredients 
alternately  with  milk.  Add  molasses.  Pour  into  a  greased  and  floured 
long  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes. 

Nancy  Holt 

ORANGE  CRUSH  POUND  CAKE 

2  3/4  cups  sugar  Frosting: 

1  cup  Crisco  6  oz.  cream  cheese  softened 

1/2  stick  margarine  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  Orange  Crush  Soft  1  tsp.  Orange  flavoring 

Drink  or  Sunkist  1  box  confectionery  sugar 

5  eggs  pinch  of  salt 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

3  cups  plain  flour 

1  tsp..  vanilla  flavoring 
1  tsp.  orange  flavoring 

Cream  shortenings  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time  beating  well  after 
each  egg.  Add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  Orange  drink.  Starting 
and  ending  with  flour.  Add  vanilla  and  orange  flavorings.  Bake  in  a 
tube  pan  that  has  been  greased  and  floured.  Bake  1  hour  and  20  minutes 
at  325  degrees.  Remove  from  oven  and  cool.  Frost  after  cake  has  cooled. 
Frosting:  Add  vanilla  and  orange  flavorings  to  the  cream  cheese.  Add 
confectionery  sugar  and  salt.  Beat  until  smooth.  If  frosting  is  too  stiff, 
add  1  tsp.  of  milk  at  a  time  until  spreading  consistency. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 


Desserts 


101 


PALMETTO  CAKE 
(Old  English  Recipe) 


1/2  lb.  butter 
1  lb.  sugar 
6  eggs 

1  lb.  flour 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  fresh  coconut  ( grated) 
milk  from  coconut 


1  box  seedless  raisins 
1/2  lb.  candied  cherries 

(red  or  green) 
1  tsp.  almond  extract 
1/2  tsp.  lemon  extract 
1/2  tsp.  vanilla 
1/2  tsp.  salt  (optional) 


Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  beaten  eggs.  Add  flavorings, 
sifted  flour  and  baking  powder.  Fold  in  coconut,  milk  from  coconut, 
raisins  and  cherries  which  have  been  lightly  floured.  Line  tube  pan  with 
wax  paper.  Begin  baking  cake  at  275  degrees  for  one  and  one-half  hour 
then  turn  oven  up  to  300  degrees  and  bake  for  1/2  hour  longer. 
"This  cake  is  beautiful  for  Christmas  or  Easter  and  is  delicious.  My 
Mother  began  making  this  in  1966  and  we  loved  it. " 

Rebecca  Crawford 

PETITE  ORANGE  FRUIT  CAKE 


TOPPING: 

3/4  cup  sugar 

1  tbsp.  grated  orange  rind 

1/2  cup  orange  juice 


1  cup  white  sugar 

2  eggs 
1  tsp.  soda 
1  pkg.  dates  (chopped) 

1  grated  orange  rind 
1/2  cup  butter 

2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  chopped  pecans 
2/3  cup  buttermilk 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  until  light.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  together.  Add  dates  and  nuts  to  dry  mixture.  Alternately  add 
dry  mixture  and  buttermilk  to  the  shortening  and  egg  mixture.  Blend  in 
the  orange  rind.  Grease  miniature  muffin  tin  and  fill  1/2  to  3/4  full. 
Bake  at  375  degrees  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Makes  5  dozen 

Topping:  Bring  sugar,  orange  juice  and  rind  to  boil.  Pour  slowly 
over  little  cakes  while  they  are  still  hot. 

Peggy  Hamlett 


Desserts  102 


PINEAPPLE  SHEET  CAKE 

1  (lib.  4  oz.)  can  crushed  1  tsp.  vanilla 

pineapple  2  large  eggs 

2  1/4  cups  sifted  plain  flour  2/3  cup  salad  oil 
1  1/2  cups  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt  Icing: 

3/4  tsp.  baking  powder  3/4  stick  margarine 

3/4  tsp.  soda  1/4  cup  milk  or  cream 

1/2  tsp.  nutmeg  1  1/2  cups  confectioners'  sugar 


Drain  pineapple  in  strainer.  Sift  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  soda 
together.  Add  spice,  vanilla  and  sugar.  Add  drained  pineapple,  eggs  and 
oil  to  dry  mixture.  Beat  1  minute  at  medium  speed.  Turn  into  greased  9 
x  13  x  2  inch  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes.  Cool  in  pan  . 
Mix  icing  ingredients  and  beat  until  creamy.  Spread  icing  on  cooled 
cake. 

Ethel  Cheek 

POTLUCK  SUPPER  CAKE 

Bake  white  cake  mix  according  to  instructions  for  9x13  pan.  While 
cake  is  still  warm,  poke  several  holes  in  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  handle, 
and  pour  one  can  sweetened  condensed  milk  over  cake.  After  this 
cools,  spread  one  tub  of  whipped  topping  over  cake  and  sprinkle  with 
coconut.  Refrigerate  overnight  and  serve  cold.  Keep  refrigerated. 

Lynn  Vandiviere  Winship 


Desserts  103 


PUNCH  BOWL  CAKE 

1  yellow  cake  mix  2  cans  pineapple  -  drained 

2  pkgs.  vanilla  instant  pudding         1  pkg.  coconut 

mix  2  small  containers  cool  whip 

2  cans  fruit  cocktail  drained  Pecan  pieces 

2  cans  cherry  pie  filling 

Prepare  yellow  cake  mix  according  to  package  directions  making  2 
layers.  Cool  completely.  Prepare  vanilla  instant  pudding  according  to 
package  directions.  Place  1  cake  layer  on  bottom  of  punch  bowl.  Spread 
with  1/2  of  vanilla  pudding,  1  can  cherry  pie  filling,  1  can  pineapple,  1 
can  fruit  cocktail  and  1/2  coconut.  Repeat .  Keep  cake  in  refrigerator 
overnight.  Add  cool  whip  and  pecan  pieces  just  before  serving. 

Phyllis  Padgett 

COLD  OVEN  POUND  CAKE 

3  sticks  softened  Promise  3  1/2  cups  plain  flour 

margarine  1/4  tsp.  salt 

3  cups  sugar  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

S  eggs  2  tsp.  vanilla 
1  cup  sweet  milk 

Blend  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  blend.  Then  add  dry 
ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Add  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  tube  pan  for  1 
1/2  hours  at  300  degrees  .  (Turn  oven  on  when  cake  is  placed  in  oven). 

Decie  Kenyon 

POUND  CAKE 

3  sticks  margarine  1/4  tsp.  salt 

3  cups  sugar  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

5  eggs  1  1/4  cups  sweet  milk 

3  1/2  cups  plain  Red  Band  Flour      1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  lemon  flavoring 
Cream  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  time  beating  well  after 
each  addition.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  alternately  with 
milk.  Mix  well.  Add  vanilla  flavoring  and  lemon  flavoring  to  mixture. 
Bake  in  a  300  degree  oven  for  1  hour  and  45  minutes. 

Virginia  Perry 


Desserts 


104 


POUND  CAKE  DELIGHT 


3  1/2  cups  plain  flour  sifted 
1/2  cup  sugar  (granulated) 
1  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  3  oz.  pkg.  lemon  Jello  (may  use 

orange) 
1  cup  margarine 
1/2  cup  Crisco 


1  box  confectioners'  sugar 

(sifted) 
6  large  eggs 
1  cup  milk 
1  tsp.  lemon  extract 
1  tsp.  coconut  extract 
1  tsp.  orange  extract 


Sift  flour,  granulated  sugar,  baking  powder  and  Jello  together 

2  or  3  times  to  mix  well.  Cream  shortening,  margarine  and 

confectioners'  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  cream  thoroughly.  Add  dry 

ingredients  alternately  with  milk,  ending  with  flour.  Add  flavoring 

before  the  last  flour  addition.  Bake  in  a  large  tube  pan  1  1/2  hours  at  325 

degrees.  Let  cool  in  pan  for  15  minutes  then  remove  to  rack. 

*  This  is  a  very  moist  cake  and  keeps  at  least  2  weeks  if  well  hidden!! 

Nancy  Holt 

PUMPKIN  CAKE 


Icing: 

4  oz.  softened  cream  cheese 

1/2  stick  softened  margarine 

2  tbsp.  milk 

1/2  box  confectioners'  sugar 


4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  salad  oil 

2  cups  plain  flour 
2  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  tsp.  soda 
1/2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  cooked  pumpkin 


Blend  oil,  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  dry  ingredients  and  blend  well.  Blend 
pumpkin  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  tube  pan  and  bake 
at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Icing:  Blend  cream  cheese,  margarine,  milk  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan 
over  low  heat .  Drizzle  mixture  on  top  of  cake  while  it  is  still  warm 
enough  to  pour  from  saucepan. 

Decie  Kenyon 


Desserts 


105 


RED  VELVET  CAKE 


1/2  Cup  Crisco 

1  1/2  Cups  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  1/4  cups  plain  or  cake  flour 
Pinch  of  salt 

3  tbsp.  cocoa 
1  cup  buttermilk 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


1  tbsp.  vinegar 

1  tsp.  soda 

2  oz.  red  food  coloring 


Butter  Icing: 

1  cup  milk 

3  Tbsp.  plain  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  margarine 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

pinch  of  salt 
Cream  sugar,  shortening  and  eggs  well.  Add  food  coloring.  Sift  together 
flour,  salt  and  cocoa.  Add  to  mixture  alternately  with  buttermilk  and 
vanilla.  Dissolve  soda  in  vinegar  and  stir  into  cake  mixture.  DO  NOT 
BEAT.  Pour  into  8"  round  or  square  greased  and  floured  cake  pans. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Butter  Icing:  Add  milk  gradually  to  salt  and  flour;  making  a  smooth 
paste.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  for  5  to  7  minutes  or  until  thick.  COOL 
thoroughly.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  for  about  7  minutes.  Add  cool  milk 
paste  a  little  at  a  time  beating  until  fluffy.  Stir  in  vanilla. 

Patricia  Ross 


SOUR  CREAM  COFFEE  CAKE 


1  cup  margarine 

2  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

1  8  pkg.  cream  cheese  (softened) 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


2  cups  plain  flour 
1  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 
4  Tbsp.  cinnamon/sugar  (3  of 
sugar,  1  of  cinnamon) 


Blend  margarine,  cream  cheese  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Add 
dry  ingredients  and  nuts.  Sprinkle  cinnamon  sugar  on  top  of  batter  after 
it  has  been  poured  into  tube  pan.  Stir  in  with  just  2  or  3  stirs  so  it  is  not 
completely  blended  into  batter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  approximately 
50  minutes. 

Decie  Kenyon 


Desserts  106 


WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

1/2  cup  margarine,  softened  1  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  vanilla  extract  1  1/3  cups  buttermilk 

1/2  tsp.  almond  extract  4  egg  whites,  at  room 

1  1/2  cups  sugar  temperature 

2  1/2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  recipe  for  7-minute  frosting 

Cream  together  the  margarine,  vanilla  extract,  almond  extract  and  all 

but  1/4  cup  of  the  sugar.  Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  add 

the  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  the  buttermilk,  starting  and  ending 

with  the  dry  ingredients. 

Beat  the  egg  whites  until  foamy.  Gradually  add  the  remaining  1/4  cup  of 

sugar  and  beat  to  stiff  peaks.  Fold  into  batter  and  pour  into  2  9-inch 

layer  cake  pans  lined  with  wax  paper. 

Bake  at  350  degrees  for  about  30  minutes.  Cool  10  minutes  and  remove 

from  pans.  When  cake  is  thoroughly  cool,  frost  with  a  flavored  7  minute 

frosting. 

Variations: 

Fill  layers  with  jam  or  an  acceptable  pudding  mix  which  may  be 

combined  with  fruit.  Example:  put  lemon  pudding  between  layers  and 

ice  with  lemon  flavored  7-minute  frosting. 

Fill  layers  with  fruits  or  pudding  and  dribble  flavored  confectioners' 

glaze  over  the  top  and  side  of  the  cake. 

Submitted  by  Pat  Griggs  American  Heart  Association 


Desserts  107 


WILLIAMSBURG  ORANGE  CAKE 

1/2  cup  margarine  1/2  cup  seedless  golden  raisins 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  cup  chopped  walnuts 
4  egg  whites,  unbeaten  2  cup  sifted  cake  flour 

2  tsp.  grated  orange  rind  1  tsp.  baking  soda 
1  tsp.  vanilla  extract  1  cup  buttermilk 

1  cup  seedless  raisins 

Cream  the  margarine  and  sugar  until  fluffy.  Thoroughly  blend  in  the 

unbeaten  egg  whites,  orange  rind,  vanilla,  raisins  and  walnuts.  Sift  the 

flour  with  the  baking  soda  and  add  to  the  batter  alternately  with  the 

buttermilk,  beginning  and  ending  with  the  flour  mixture. 

Pour  into  a  9x9  inch  oiled  and  floured  square  cake  pan.  Bake  at  350 

degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Yields  12  servings.  Approximately  425 

calories  per  serving  with  frosting. 

Frosting: 

1/2  cup  soft  margarine 

2  cups  confectioners  sugar 
1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Cream  together  margarine,  confectioners  sugar  and  vanilla  until  fluffy. 
Use  to  frost  cooled  cake. 

Pat  Griggs 


CARAMEL  FROSTING 

1/2  cup  butter  1  cup  brown  sugar  packed 

1  3/4  cups  sifted  confectioners'         1/2  cup  sweet  milk 
sugar 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  brown  sugar  and  boil  over  low  heat  for  2 
minutes  stirring  constantly.  Add  sweet  milk  and  continue  to  stir  until  it 
comes  to  a  full  boil.  Remove  from  heat  and  let  cool.  Add  confectioners' 
sugar  and  beat  until  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Submitted  by  her  daughter  Lora  Wilkerson 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Desserts  108 


CARAMEL  ICING 

1  box  brown  sugar  1/2  lb.  butter 

2  cups  white  sugar  1  Tbsp.  flour 

1  1/2  cups  evaporated  milk  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  flour  and  sugars  together,  then  add  milk  and  cook  until  it  forms 
into  a  soft  ball.  Add  butter  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  smooth..  This  amount 
will  ice  a  very  thin  6  layer  cake. 
Submitted  by  Betty  Dodson  Mrs.  Duke  Dodson 

CARAMEL  ICING 

3  sticks  margarine  1  cup  carnation  milk 

2  boxes  brown  sugar 

Melt  margarine,  add  brown  sugar  and  milk.  Cook  stirring  constantly 
until  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  heat,  beat 
until  creamy.  Spread  on  cake.  (Will  ice  a  three  layer  cake) 

Ann  Nicholson 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  FROSTING 

3  tbsp.  cocoa  powder  3  tbsp.  safflower  oil 
1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/3  cup  evaporated  skim  milk 

In  medium  sauce  pan,  combine  all  ingredients  except  vanilla.  Bring  to  a 
boil,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  1  minute.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  vanilla, 
beat  5  minutes.  Spread  over  cake.  Will  cover  one  9  by  13  sheet  cake. 
Add  additional  milk  if  needed  for  a  creamier  spreading  consistency. 

From  "Don 't  Eat  Your  Heart  Out, "  Patsy  Ray 

a  Cookbook  by  Joseph  Piscatella 


Desserts  109 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE  FILLING 

3  cups  sugar  1  stick  margarine 

3  squares  chocolate  melted  pinch  of  salt 

2  tbsp.  white  syrup  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  evaporated  milk 

Mix  together  and  cook  to  a  soft  ball  stage. 

Marybelle  Kirk 


"With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true. 

Oven  of  even  heat: 

Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves. 

Success  will  be  complete. " 

COOK  BOOK  -  Ladies  Aid  Society  of  Presbyterian  Church 
Chipley,  Florida      1912 


Desserts  1 10 


Notes 


Candies 

& 
Cookies 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 1 1 


CHOCOLATE  BALLS 

12  oz.  package  semi-sweet  2  1/2  cups  crushed  vanilla  wafers 

chocolate  bits  1  cup  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans 

3  tbsp.  white  corn  syrup  1/2  cup  confectioners'  sugar 

1/2  cup  concentrated  orange 
juice 

Melt  chocolate  bits  over  low  heat.  Add  all  remaining  ingredients  except 
powdered  sugar.  Mix  and  make  walnut  size  balls.  Roll  in  powdered 
sugar  and  store  in  refrigerator  2  or  3  days. 

Patsy  Ray 

CHEESE  FUDGE 

1/2  pound  velveeta  cheese  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/2  pound  margarine  1/2  cup  cocoa 

2  pounds  confectioners  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Melt  margarine  and  cheese  together.  Add  confectioners  sugar,  vanilla 
and  cocoa.  Mix  until  smooth.  Mix  in  the  nuts.  Pour  into  a  dish  lined 
with  wax  paper.  Put  dish  into  refrigerator  until  cool.  Cut  into  small 
squares. 

Serene  Bartholomew 

PECAN  CONFECTIONS 

1  egg  white  1  level  tbsp.  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  finely  chopped  pecans 

Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  egg  white  to  stiff  froth.  Gradually  add  sugar,  salt  and  flour. 
Continue  beating.  Stir  in  nuts.  Drop  on  greased  cookie  sheet  by  spoonful 
placing  far  apart.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  (300  to  325  degrees)  for 
about  15  minutes.  Remove  from  cookie  sheet  when  partly  cooled. 

Yield:  about  2  dozen 
Submitted  by  her  daughter  Lora  T.  Wilkerson 

Priscilla  Lloyd 


Candies  &  Cookies  112 


GOLDEN  PEANUT  BRITTLE 

3  cups  raw  peanuts  1  cup  light  corn  syrup 

1-1/2  tsp.  baking  soda  1/2  cup  water 

1/2  tsp.  salt  1/4  cup  margarine 
2  cups  sugar 

Spread  peanuts  evenly  in  a  15  x  10  x  1  inch  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  15  minutes.  Set  aside.  Combine  soda  and  salt  and  set  aside. 
Combine  sugar,  syrup  and  water  and  cook  over  low  heat  stirring 
occasionally  until  mixture  reaches  soft  crack  stage  (275  degrees)  Add 
peanuts,  cook  stirring  CONSTANTLY  until  mixture  reaches  hard  crack 
stage  (300  degrees).  Remove  from  heat,  stir  in  butter  and  soda  mixture. 

Working  rapidly,  spread  mixture  thinly  onto  2  buttered  15  x  10  x  1 
inch  pan.  Let  cool,  break  into  pieces. 

Yields  about  2  1/2  pounds. 

Decie  Kenyon 

SEA  FOAM  DIVINITY 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar  1  cup  broken  nuts 

1  cup  sugar  3/4  cup  water 

1/4  tsp.  salt  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 

1  tbsp.  corn  syrup  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  salt,  corn  syrup  and  water  in  saucepan.  Boil  gently  without 
stirring  until  small  amount  of  syrup  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  hard 
ball  or  until  candy  thermometer  registers  254  degrees.  Slowly  pour  hot 
syrup  into  beaten  egg  whites,  beating  constantly,  using  a  spoon  as  syrup 
thickens,  add  vanilla  and  nuts.  Beat  until  mixture  looses  some  of  its 
gloss  and  drops  without  spreading.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  greased  or 
wax  paper  lined  platters.  Let  stand  20  to  30  minutes. 
Yield:  3  dozen. 

Decie  Kenyon 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 1 3 


BROWNIES 

1  1/3  sticks  margarine  2  2/3  cups  plain  flour 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  1/2  tsp.  salt 

3  large  eggs  1  1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  (8  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  chips  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  to  1  1/2  cups  chopped  nuts 

Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Melt  margarine  and  add 

brown  sugar.  Let  cool.  Beat  in  eggs  and  dry  ingredients.  Add  chips,  nuts 

and  vanilla.  Bake  in  8  1/2  x  1 1  inch  pan  for  25  to  30  minutes  at  375 

degree. 

"I  usually  switch  oven  between  350  and  375  degrees.  " 

Rebecca  Crawford 

BROWNIES 

1  3/4  sticks  margarine  2  tsp.  vanilla 

3/4  cup  cocoa  1  1/3  cups  plain  flour 

4  eggs  1/2  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

In  a  saucepan  ,  melt  margarine  and  cocoa.  In  a  large  mixing  bowl,  beat 
the  eggs  for  3  minutes  (very  important).  Add  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add 
chocolate  mixture.  Add  vanilla.  Mix  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Mix 
together  and  blend  well.  Bake  30  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Leta  Bradshaw 

BROWNIES 

4  eggs  1  cup  Wesson  oil 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  self-rising  flour  2  tsp.  vanilla 
4  heaping  tsp.  cocoa 

Beat  eggs  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  sugar  and  mix  well.  Add  flour  and 
cocoa  that  has  been  sifted  together.  Add  oil.  nuts  and  vanilla  and  mix 
well.  Bake  for  about  30  minutes  in  350  degree  oven. 

Ann  Nicholson 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 14 


BROWN  SUGAR  BROWNIES 

1  box  brown  sugar  1  1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  sticks  margarine  1  cup  nuts 

3  eggs 

1  1/2  cups  self  rising  flour 

Melt  margarine.  Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Pour  into  a  10  1/2  x  15  inch 
pan.  Bake  at  325  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Barbara  Sykes 

FUDGE  BROWNIES 

1/2  cup  butter  or  margarine  2  (1  oz.)  squares  unsweetened 
1  cup  sugar  chocolate 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1/2  cup  all  purpose  flour 

2  eggs  1/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  vanilla.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well. 
Blend  in  melted  chocolate.  Stir  flour  and  nuts.  Bake  in  greased  pan  at 
325  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Cool  and  frost. 

ICING:  Melt  1/2  of  1  oz.  square  unsweetened  chocolate  with  1  tbsp. 
milk  over  very  low  heat  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  3/4 
cup  sifted  confectioners  sugar.  Beat  until  spreadable 

Patricia  Ross 

BUTTER  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter  or  margarine  4  tbsp.  buttermilk 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  soda 

1  egg  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  to  4  cups  plain  flour  1/2  tsp.  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg.  Dissolve  soda  and  salt  in  buttermilk 
and  mix  with  butter  and  sugar.  Add  enough  plain  flour  to  make  a  biscuit 
dough  (approximately  3  1/2  to  4  cups).  Refrigerate  dough  several  hours 
for  crisper  cookies.  Roll  out  thin  on  a  floured  surface,  cut  and  bake  at 
375  degrees  (on  ungreased  cookie  sheet)  until  golden  brown. 
"These  cookies  freeze  and  go  with  anything. " 

Decie  Kenyon 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 15 


CARAMEL  LAYER  CHOCOLATE  -  SQUARES 

42  light  caramels  1/3  cup  evaporated  milk 

1/3  cup  evaporated  milk  1  cup  chopped  pecans  or  walnuts 

1  pkg.  German  Chocolate  cake         1  cup  (6  oz.  pkg.)  chocolate  chips 

mix 
3/4  cup  butter  or  margarine 

melted 

In  the  top  of  a  double  boiler,  combine  caramels  and  1/3  cup  evaporated 
milk.  Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  caramels  are 
melted.  Set  aside. 

Generously  grease  and  lightly  flour  13x9  inch  baking  pan. 

In  a  large  mixing  bowl,  combine  dry  cake  mix,  melted  butter, 
evaporated  milk  and  nuts.  Stir  by  hand  until  dough  holds  together.  Press 
1/2  of  dough  into  prepared  pan  (save  remaining  dough  for  topping). 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  6  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  sprinkle 
chocolate  chips  over  baked  crust.  Spread  caramel  mixture  over  chocolate 
pieces.  Crumble  reserved  dough  over  caramel  mixture.  (It  will  spread 
out  as  it  bakes). 

Return  to  oven  and  bake  for  16  minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and 
cool  overnight  so  that  caramel  layer  sets  and  flavors  intermingle.  Cut 
into  bars. 

Diane  Kress 

CHOCOLATE  OATMEAL  COOKIES 

4  cups  sugar  1  cup  peanut  butter 

1/2  cup  cocoa  4  cups  quick  oatmeal 

1  stick  butter  2  tsp.  vanilla 

1/4  tsp.  salt 
1  cup  milk 

Mix  sugar,  cocoa,  butter,  salt  and  milk.  Bring  to  bubbly  boil,  boil  3 
minutes.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  peanut  butter,  oatmeal  and  vanilla.  Put 
into  greased  9x11  inch  sheet  cake  pan.  Let  cool,  cut  into  squares. 

Shirley  Rishel 


Candies  &  Cookies  116 


GOLF  BALL  COOKIES 

2  1/2  cups  graham  cracker  1  7  oz.  pkg.  coconut 

crumbs  1  box  powdered  sugar 

1  1/2  cups  chopped  pecans  2  sticks  margarine 

1  (12  oz.)  jar  crunchy  peanut 

butter 

Melt  2  sticks  margarine.  Mix  together  graham  cracker  crumbs  and 
powdered  sugar.  Pour  melted  margarine  over  mixture  and  mix.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  and  mix  well  with  your  hands.  Roll  into  small 
balls 

Melt  1/2  block  paraffin  was  with  12  oz.  chocolate  chips  in  double 
boiler.  Dip  balls  until  coated.  Place  balls  on  wax  paper.  Put  in 
refrigerator  until  very  cold.  May  be  stored  in  jars.  Makes  over  100  balls. 

Peggy  Hamlett 

GRANDMA  BICKEL'S  COOKIE  RECIPE 

2  cups  raisins  1  tsp.  vanilla 
1  1/2  cups  cold  water                        4  cups  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  1  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 
1  cup  Crisco  shortening  1  pkg.  chocolate  chips 

3  eggs  1  cup  chopped  peanuts  or 

walnuts 

Soak  raisins  in  water  in  a  saucepan.  Then  place  on  stove  and  boil  for  5 
minutes.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  baking  soda.  Cool. 

In  mixing  bowl,  cream  together  sugar,  Crisco,  eggs  and  vanilla. 
Add  the  cooled  raisin  mixture.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder. 
Add  to  the  other  mixture. 

Fold  in  chocolate  chips  and  chopped  nuts.  Bake  at  400  degrees 
until  golden  brown  and  firm,  approximately  8  to  10  minutes. 

Makes  9  dozen  cookies. 

Diane  Kress 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 17 


LEMON  SQUARES 

Crust:  Filling: 

1  cup  margarine  4  eggs 

1/2  cup  powdered  sugar  1  3/4  cups  sugar 

2  cups  plain  flour  1/3  cup  lemon  juice 

1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1/3  cup  plain  flour 

Crust:  Cream  margarine  and  sugar.  Stir  in  flour  with  wooden  spoon. 
Spread  in  bottom  and  sides  of  a  13  x  9  inch  pan.  Bake  15  to  20  minutes 
at  350  degrees. 

Filling:  Combine  all  filling  ingredients  in  blender  and  mix  until 
smooth.  Pour  over  baked  crust  and  bake  20  to  25  minutes  at  350  degrees 
until  light  brown.  Cool  on  wire  rack  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 
Cut  in  squares. 

Leta  Bradshaw 

MOLASSES  PECAN  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  margarine  1  1/2  cup  plain  flour 

3/4  cup  sugar  1/2  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  3/4  tsp.  soda 

1/3  cup  molasses  (Grandma's)  3/4  cup  chopped  pecans 

Cream  together  margarine,  sugar,  egg  and  molasses  until  mixture  is 
smooth.  Combine  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  creamed  mixture;  mix  well. 
Stir  in  chopped  pecans  and  drop  from  tip  of  teaspoon  onto  greased 
cookie  sheets  spacing  cookies  two  inches  apart.  Bake  at  325  degrees 
approximately  15  minutes.  Yields  at  least  4  dozen  cookies. 

Joanna  Bradshaw 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 18 


NUT  ROLLS 

1  box  Graham  Crackers  2  cups  chopped  pecans 

1  small  can  pet  milk  1  box  raisins 

1  lg.  bag  marshmallows 

Crush  graham  crackers  save  out  about  1/2  cup  to  roll  bars  in.  Heat  milk 
and  marshmallows  until  melted  over  low  heat  stirring  to  keep  from 
burning.  Mix  cracker  crumbs,  nuts  and  raisins  in  a  large  bowl.  Pour 
marshmallow  mix  over  crumbs  and  mix  with  hands.  Shape  in  to  ball 
and  chill  until  you  can  make  into  bars  or  rolls.  Use  reserved  crumbs  to 
coat.  Decorate  with  nuts  and  cherries  if  desired.  These  make  nice  gifts. 
They  can  be  frozen  or  kept  in  the  refrigerator  for  several  weeks.  Makes 
about  3  large  or  6  small  rolls. 

Kitty  Bradshaw 

FUDGE  OATMEAL  COOKIES 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  quick  Quaker  oats 
1/2  cup  milk  1/2  cup  peanut  butter 

3  tbsp.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla 
1  stick  margarine 

Bring  sugar,  milk,  cocoa  and  margarine  to  boil.  Boil  for  2  to  3  minutes. 
Remove  from  heat  and  add  peanut  butter  (crunchy),  and  vanilla.  Stir  in 
oatmeal.  Mix  well.  Drop  by  teaspoonful  on  wax  paper.  Cool. 

Alisa  Kenyon  Hill  and 
Bonnie  Kirk  (Michael's  favorite) 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CRUNCH 

1  cup  peanut  butter  4  cups  corn  flakes 

1  cup  corn  syrup  2  cups  rice  krispies 

1  cup  sugar 

Put  sugar  and  syrup  in  saucepan  over  low  heat  until  sugar  dissolves. 
Add  peanut  butter  and  stir  well.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  corn  flakes 
and  rice  krispies.  Put  into  pan  or  make  into  balls.  Very  good  at  breakfast 
time. 

Marybelle  Kirk 


Candies  &  Cookies  119 


PEANUT  BUTTER  DELIGHTS 

2  cups  sugar  1/2  cup  peanut  butter 

3  level  tbsps.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1/2  cup  milk  2  1/2  cups  quick  oatmeal 

1  stick  margarine 

Combine  sugar,  cocoa,  milk  and  margarine.  Bring  to  boil  and  boil  for  1 
and  1/2  minutes.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  peanut  butter,  vanilla  and 
oatmeal..  Mix  well.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  wax  paper.  Spread 
slightly.  Makes  about  30. 

Vickie  Felmei  McGee  and 
Ann  Bradshaw  Whitlow 


PEANUT  BUTTER  SQUARES 

2  cups  peanut  butter  (plain  or  1  cup  graham  cracker  crumbs 

crunchy)  3  sticks  melted  margarine 

1  box  confectioners  sugar 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Press  into  a  9  x  13  inch  pan.  Top  with  a  12  ounce 
package  of  melted  milk  chocolate  chips.  Refrigerate. 

Lauren  Kirk 


RICE  KRISPIES  GOODIES 

1  stick  margarine  1  cup  coconut 

1  cup  chopped  dates  1  egg 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1/2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  2  1/2  cups  rice  krispies  cereal 

Combine  all  except  cereal  and  bring  to  boil.  Lower  the  heat  and  stir 
until  thick.  Pour  over  rice  krispies  and  mix  with  your  hands.  Roll  into 
balls  and  cool  slightly.  Put  some  powdered  sugar  in  a  plastic  bag  and 
add  a  few  balls  and  shake  to  coat.  Let  cool  completely.  Store  in  an  air 
tight  container.  These  make  nice  gifts  at  Christmas. 

Ann  Bradshaw  Whitlow 


Candies  &  Cookies 


120 


HOLIDAY  SHORTBREAD  DROPS 


1  cup  butter  or  margarine 
1/2  cup  sugar 

1  egg  yolk 

2  tsp.  vanilla 
1/4  tsp.  salt 


2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Blend  in  egg  yolk,  vanilla  and  salt.  Mix  well. 
Stir  in  flour.  Mix  in  raisins  and  nuts.  Drop  by  small  teaspoon  onto 
greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  10  to  15  minutes  or  until 
lightly  browned  on  bottom,    yield  -  approximately  4  dozen 

Joanna  Bradshaw 

ROCKY  ROAD  FUDGE  BARS 


Base: 

1/2  cup  margarine  or  butter 

1  oz.  (1  sq.)  semi-sweet  or  milk 

chocolate  broken  into 

pieces 
1  cup  all  purpose  or  unbleached 

flour  sifted 
1  cup  sugar 
1  1/8  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  eggs 

3/4  cup  chopped  nuts 


Filling: 

8  oz.  cream  cheese  softened 

(reserve  2  oz.  cream  cheese 

for  frosting) 
1/4  to  1/2  cup  butter  or 

margarine  softened 
2  tbsp.  flour 
1/2  cup  sugar 
1/2  tsp.  vanilla 
legg 

1/4  cup  chopped  nuts 
6  oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet  or  milk 

chocolate  chips. 


Frosting: 

2  cups  miniature  marshmallows 
1/4  cup  butter  or  margarine 
1/8  to  1/4  cup  milk 

1  oz.  (1  sq.)  semi-sweet  chocolate 

broken,  into  pieces 

2  oz.  reserved  cream  cheese 

3  cups  sifted  confectioners  sugar 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


Candies  &  Cookies  1 2 1 


Heat  oven  to  350  degrees.  Grease  and  flour  13x9  inch.  pan.  In  a  large 
saucepan  over  low  heat,  melt  1/2  cup  margarine  or  butter  and  1  oz. 
chocolate,  stirring  constantly  until  smooth.  Lightly  spoon  flour  into 
measuring  cup;  level  off.  Add  1  cup  flour  and  remaining  base 
ingredients.  Mix  well.  Spread  into  prepared  pan. 

In  a  small  bowl,  combine  all  filling  ingredients  except  1/4  cup  nuts 
and  chocolate  chips.  Beat  1  minute  at  medium  speed  until  smooth  and 
fluffy;  stir  in  nits.  Spread  over  chocolate  mixture;  sprinkle  evenly  with 
chocolate  chips.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  35  minutes. 

While  baking:  In  a  large  saucepan  over  low  heat,  combine  1/4  cup 
margarine  or  butter,  1  oz.  broken  chocolate  and  reserved  2  oz.  cream 
cheese;  stir  until  well  blended.  Remove  from  heat;  stir  in  confectioners' 
sugar  and  drizzle  in  milk,  alternately  until  consistency  of  frosting  that 
can  be  poured  (not  too  thin).  Add  vanilla  and  stir  until  smooth. 

Remove  fudge  from  oven  when  finished  baking.  Toothpick  should 
come  out  clean  when  inserted.  Immediately  sprinkle  with  marshmallows 
and  return  to  oven  an  additional  2  minutes.  Remove  and  pour  frosting 
over  marshmallows  on  fudge  while  it  is  still  hot.  Cool  or  refrigerate 
until  firm.  Cut  into  36  to  48  bars. 

Pant  de  Friess 

SPICED  APPLE  &  RAISIN  SNACK  MIX 

2  tbsp  margarine  1  cup  firmly  packed  dried 
1  tbsp  firmly  packed  brown  apple  chunks 

sugar  3/4  cup  raisins 

4  cups  Quaker  Oat  Squares  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Cereal 

Melt  margarine  in  3  quart  saucepan  over  medium  heat.  Stir  in  brown 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Add  cereal,  apples,  raisins  and  mix  until  pieces  are 
evenly  coated.  Store  tightly  covered  in  refrigerator  up  to  5  days.  Yield: 
approximately  6  cups 

Microwave  directions:  In  4  quart  microwave  bowl  microwave 
margarine  at  high  for  30  seconds  or  until  melted.  Stir  in  brown  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Proceed  as  directed  above. 

Bonnie  Kirk 


Candies  &  Cookies  122 


SWEDISH  HEIRLOOM  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  shortening  1/2  cup  margarine 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  tbsp.  water 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  tsp.  almond  flavoring  1  1/4  cups  ground  pecans 

1/2  tsp.  salt  Powdered  sugar 

Cream  shortening  and  margarine  until  fluffy.  Add  the  cup  of  powdered 
sugar.  Cream  well.  Blend  in  flour,  add  water  and  flavorings.  Stir  in 
nuts,  shape  into  1  inch  size  balls.  Put  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Press 
each  one  slightly.  Bake  at  325  degrees  12  to  15  minutes.  Remove  from 
pan  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Ethel  Cheek 


Cooking 

for 

a 

CrowcC 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  123 


FUND  RAISING  BAR-B-QUE  SAUCE 

3  cups  salt  1  cup  ground  red  pepper 

4  cups  dark  brown  sugar  5  gallons  cider  vinegar 
2  cups  crushed  red  peppers 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  full  rolling  boil.  This  recipe  makes  5 
gallons. 

June  Bradshaw 

BAR-B-QUE  SAUCE 

1  cup  salt  1/3  cup  ground  red  pepper 

1  1/3  cups  dark  brown  sugar  1  2/3  gal.  vinegar  (not  white 

2/3  cup  crushed  red  pepper  vinegar) 

Bring  all  ingredients  to  full  rolling  boil.  "1  use  this  for  one  pig  or  6 
shoulders.  "Note:  1  1/4  oz.  box  of  ground  pepper  is  equal  to  1/3  cup.  3 
oz.  jar  crushed  red  peppers  is  equal  to  one  cup. 

June  Bradshaw 

HOLT'S  BAR-B-QUE  PIG  SAUCE 

1  pint  vinegar  1  tbsp.  chili  powder 

1/2  cup  water  2  tbsp.  paprika 

1  tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  3  tbsp.  black  pepper    . 

1  tbsp.  Tabasco  sauce  1  small  bottle  catsup 

3/4  tsp.  dry  mustard 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  bring  to  boil  for  5  to  10  minutes.  Seal  in 

containers.  This  will  last  forever  without  refrigeration.  In  fact,  the  sauce 

gets  better  with  age. 

*  Makes  1  quart  sauce.  Add  crushed  RED  peppers  if  you  want  super  hot 

sauce. 

"This  recipe  was  used  for  many  of  the  Cane  Creek  B-B-Q  fund  raising 
events  for  8  years. " 

Nancy  Holt 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  124 


BRUNSWICK  STEW 

3  old  hens  1  1/2  lb.  Mrs.  Filbert's 
3  fryers  margarine 

2  lb.  pork  1  1/2  tbsp.  crushed  red  pepper 

3  lb.  beef  1  tbsp.  black  pepper 
15  lb.  potatoes  1/4  cup  vinegar 

6  qt.  tomatoes  1/2  cup  sugar 

1/2  gallon  onions  (3  lb.)  8  oz.  Lea  &  Perrin 

6  pints  white  corn  Worcestershire  sauce 

3  lb.  small  dried  butter  beans  salt  (optional) 

Cook  chickens,  debone  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Cook  pork  and  beef 
together  and  chop.  Save  juices  and  strain  to  avoid  small  bones.  Cook 
potatoes  in  water  and  mash.  Cook  dried  beans  and  mash.  Cook  onions 
and  blend  in  blender.  Add  in  this  order.  Spray  BIG  pot  with  Pam.  Melt 
margarine  and  add  tomatoes,  meats,  onions,  corn.  Add  beans  and 
potatoes  LAST.  Add  seasonings  and  stir  to  keep  from  sticking.  This  will 
need  to  heat  and  simmer  for  several  hours.  Stir  often.  Cool  and  freeze. 
Makes  5  gallons. 

Kitty  Br  ads  haw 

BAKED  CHICKEN 

1/4  chicken  per  person  Salt  &  pepper  to  taste 

(13  chickens  for  50  people) 

Cut  chicken  into  quarters.  Salt  and  pepper  and  place  in  baking  pans 
sprayed  with  Pam.  Cover  with  foil  and  bake  in  a  low  oven  300  degrees 
for  2  hours.  Uncover  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes  at  350  degrees. 
Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church  Wednesday  Night  Cookbook 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  125 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  (Serves  50) 

17  lb.  chicken  boned  (4  or  5  5  cups  uncooked  rice 

large  chickens)  4  cups  water 

5  cans  cream  of  mushroom  soup  8-10  cups  chicken  broth 

5  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup  5  tsp.  sage 

3  cups  celery  Salt  and  pepper 
3  cups  onion 

Cook  chicken  and  debone  it.  Chop  meat  into  small  pieces.  In  large  pan, 
add  soups,  celery,  onion,  water,  broth,  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Cook  until 
onions  and  celery  are  tender.  Add  chicken  and  rice.  Simmer  over  low 
heat  until  rice  is  done  or  spoon  into  10x15  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees 
for  30  minutes. 
Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church  Wednesday  Night  Cookbook 

CHILI  (Serves  100) 

25  lb.  hamburger  25  (16  oz.)  cans  tomato  sauce 

3  lb.  bacon  cooked  and  25  (15  or  20  oz.)  cans  kidney 

crumbled  beans 

10  medium  onions  chopped  3/4  cup  chili  powder 

Brown  ground  beef.  Drain  off  (layer  on  paper  towels).  Cook  onion  in 
bacon  grease  Drain.  Put  all  together  and  cook  until  it  boils.  Simmer  45 
minutes  to  one  hour.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Anne  Hawkins 

FUND  RAISING  HOT  DOG  CHILI  (Serves  225) 

7  lb.  lean  ground  beef  16  oz.  catsup 

2  large  onions  3/4  box  (4  oz.  size)  chili  powder 

1  tbsp.  oil  salt  and  sugar 

1  Ig.  can  tomato  juice  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  lg.  can  tomato  sauce 

Brown  meat  and  drain.  Saute  onion  and  add  meat,  juice,  catsup,  tomato 
sauce  and  chili  powder.  Simmer  about  30  minutes.  Add  salt,  sugar  and 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste.  Simmer  about  30  minutes.  Add  spices  a 
small  amount  at  a  time.  Adjust  to  your  taste.  Any  leftover  freezes  well. 
Kitty  Bradshaw  Dale  Andrews 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  126 


HOMEMADE  HOT  DOG  CHILI  (Serves  30) 

3  lb.  lean  hamburger  3  tbsp.  vinegar 

1  bottle  Heinz  Catsup  1  tbsp.  chili  powder 

3  tbsp.  brown  sugar  Texas  Pete  as  desired 

Mix  ingredients  in  saucepan.  Cook  and  stir  until  hamburger  is  done. 

Simmer  for  15  minutes  to  3  hours  to  blend  flavors. 

Chris  Gambill's  Mother  Ruth  Gambill 

BEST  EVER  BARBECUED  HAMBURGER  (114  Servings) 

20  lb.  ground  beef  2  1/2  cups  sugar 

1  1/4  cups  shortening  2  1/4  cups  vinegar 

20  large  onions,  peeled  15  cups  catsup 

20  green  peppers  1  1/4  cups  dry  mustard 

6  2/3  tbsp.  salt 

Brown  beef  in  shortening,  stirring  occasionally  until  mixture  is  crumbly. 
Put  onions  and  peppers  through  food  chopper.  Combine  with  sugar, 
vinegar,  catsup,  mustard  and  salt.  Add  to  meat.  If  you  bake  this  mixture 
instead  of  cooking  on  top  of  range,  first  rinse  out  the  pan  with  cold 
water  but  do  not  dry  it.  This  will  help  prevent  the  meat  mixture  from 
sticking  to  the  pan. 

Anne  Hawkins 

BARBECUED  ROAST  (Serves  50) 

20  lb.  arm  or  chuck  roast  or  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

brisket  2  bottles  barbecue  sauce 

Spray  pans  with  Pam.  Salt  and  pepper  meat.  Pour  sauce  over  meat,  add 

a  little  water  (1/2-1  cup).  Cover  with  foil.  Cook  at  250  to  300  degrees 

for  5  hours  or  more.  After  3  or  4  hours,  look  at  the  meat  and  baste  it. 

Return  to  oven  and  continue  cooking.  Adjust  oven  so  that  meat  cooks 

slowly. 

Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church  Wednesday  Night  Cookbook 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  127 


MEAT  LOAF  (48  Servings) 

12  lb.,  ground  beef  4  medium  size  onions 

4  eggs,  beaten  2  1/4  tsp.  salt 

4  cups  fresh  bread  crumbs  3  tsp.  pepper 

3  cans  tomato  sauce 

Lightly  mix  ingredients  and  form  a  loaf.  Place  in  shallow  pan  in 
moderate  oven,  350  degrees.  While  its  starting  to  bake,  combine  the 
following  to  make  your  prize-winning  tart  sweet  gravy. 

3  cans  tomato  sauce 

8  oz.  water 

1  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  brown  sugar  or  molasses 

1  cup  prepared  mustard 

Pour  over  meat  loaf  in  oven;  continue  baking  1  1/2  hours  longer,  basting 
occasionally. 

Anne  Hawkins 


EASY  CHUCK  ROAST  (48  Servings) 

12  lb.  lean  chuck  roast  4  cans  mushroom  soup 

4  pkgs.  onion  soup  Salt  (optional) 

Wash  and  prepare  meat  for  cooking.  Place  roast  in  heavy  foil.  Sprinkle 
one  half  of  the  onion  soup  and  half  of  the  mushroom  soup  on  one  side  of 
the  meat.  Turn  meat  and  use  the  balance  of  ingredients.  Seal  foil;  place 
roast  in  large  casserole  or  iron  skillet  and  bake  at  350  degrees  until 
done,  about  5  hours  or  longer. 

Anne  Hawkins 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  128 


SPAGHETTI  SAUCE  (Serves  100) 

10  (26  oz.)  cans  spaghetti  sauce        4  oz.  Worcestershire  sauce 
22  lb.  ground  beef  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

S  medium  onions 
5  medium  green  peppers  7  lb.,  spaghetti  noodles 

1  Tbsp.  sugar 

Saute  onions  and  peppers  in  small  amount  of  oil.  Cook  beef  until  done 
and  brown  stirring  constantly.  Drain  off  all  fat.  Mix  together  beef,  sauce, 
peppers  and  onions.  Season  with  sugar,  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt  and 
pepper.  Heat  to  boiling.  Simmer  30  minutes. 

Mary  Andrews,  Dale  Andrews 

SWISS  STEAK  (100  Servings) 

16  lb.  ground  beef  1  #10  cans  tomatoes 

5  cups  chopped  onion  21  slices  bread  (crumbed) 

2  1/4  cups  bell  pepper  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Fry  steak  in  fat  until  brown.  Place  in  roasting  pan  and  cover  with 
remaining  ingredients.  Simmer  at  350  degrees  2  hours  or  until  tender. 

Anne  Hawkins 

TURKEY  OR  CHICKEN  LOAF  (100  Servings) 


14  lb.  turkey  cubed  1  lg.  piece  pimento  (chopped) 

1  qt.  raw  rice  5  cups  milk 

16  eggs  (separated)  5  quarts  broth 

16  slices  bread  (cubed)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  rice  (cool),  separate  eggs  and  beat  separately.  Mix  all  ingredients 
lightly,  adding  egg  whites  last  and  toss.  Bake  at  350  degrees  20-30 
minutes.  Cut  in  squares.  Serve  with  favorite  gravy. 

Anne  Hawkins 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd  129 


TURKEY  TETRAZZINI  (100  Servings) 

5  qt.  turkey  gravy  4  lb.  spaghetti,  cooked 

2  qt  cream  of  mushroom  soup  12  lb.  cooked  turkey,  diced 

2  tbsp.  salt  1/2  cup  chopped  green  pepper 
1/2  tsp.  pepper  1  1/2  lb.  grated  cheese 

1/2  cup  lemon  juice 

Add  cream  of  mushroom  soup  to  gravy.  Add  lemon  juice  and  cook  for 
10  minutes.  Combine  drained  spaghetti,  gravy,  diced  turkey  and  green 
pepper.  Pour  into  four  (12x20  inch)  pans  and  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Bake 
in  350  degree  oven  30  to  45  minutes. 

Anne  Hawkins 

REAL  VEGETABLE  SOUP  (Serves  50) 

6  lb.  ground  beef  1  1/2  qu.  tomato  puree 
1  1/2  heads  cabbage  (diced)  1  tbsp.  salt 

18  medium  potatoes  (diced)  1  1/2  tsp.  pepper 

12  small  onions  (diced)  6  cloves  of  garlic 

1  No.  10  can  peas  3  gal.  water 

1  No.  10  can  tomatoes 

Make  ground  beef  into  small  balls,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place 

beef  balls  in  bottom  of  kettle.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Cook  slowly 

45  minutes. 

Anne  Hawkins 

BAKED  BEANS  (Serves  100) 

4  gal.  pork  and  beans  1  large  jar  mustard 

3  boxes  brown  sugar  1  bag  onions 

Chop  onions  very  fine.  Mix  all  ingredients  well.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for 
several  hours. 

Decie  Kenyon,  Jewel  Crawford, 
Matybelle  Kirk 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd 130 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  (Serves  80) 

9  small  Pkg.  Orange  Jello  3  lg.  cans  crushed  pineapple 

3  cans  whole  cranberry  sauce  Chopped  nuts  (optional) 

(not  jellied) 

Dissolve  Jello  in  9  cups  boiling  water  as  directed.  Add  6  cups  of  cold 
water.  Add  pineapple  with  juice.  Add  cranberry  sauce.  Chill  until  set. 

Frances  Snipes 

FRUIT  CRISP  (Serves  50) 

8  cups  any  fruit  (canned  or  2  cups  brown  sugar 

fresh)  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  cups  flour  2  sticks  margarine 
2  cups  oatmeal 

Add  fruit  to  2  greased  10  x  15  inch  pans.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and 
sprinkle  over  fruit.  Pour  melted  margarine  over  dry  mixture.  Bake  at 
375  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes. 
Cane  Creek  Baptist  Church  Wednesday  Night  Cookbook 

HAWAIIAN  BEETS  (50  Servings) 

2  No.  10  cans  beets  3  cups  sugar 

1  No.  10  can  crushed  pineapple  1  tbsp.  salt 

(drained)  1/2  cup  butter 

1  cup  cornstarch  1/2  cup  vinegar 

Heat  juice  and  seasoning.  (Reserve  1  cup  of  juice  to  blend  with 
cornstarch.)  Stir  in  cornstarch  mixture  and  cook  until  mixture  is  glossy. 
Fold  in  beets,  pineapple  and  butter.  Heat  thoroughly. 

Anne  Hawkins 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd 131 


MARSHMALLOW  FRUIT  SALAD  (Serves  100) 

4  lg.  pkg.  pkg.  cream  cheese  4  #303  mandarin  orange  slices 

4  lg.  pkg.  Angel  Flake  Coconut  8  lg.  pkg.  miniature 
8  #303  cans  pineapple  chunks,  marshmallows 

well  drained 

Have  cheese  soft,  mix  into  coconut.  Add  pineapple  and  marshmallows. 
Add  oranges  last  to  prevent  breaking.  Mix  the  night  before  using. 

Anne  Hawkins 

POTATO  SALAD  (Serves  100) 

30  lb.  potatoes,  diced  6  big  jars  pimento 

2  quarts  mayonnaise  4  dozen  eggs  (boiled) 

1  lg.  jar  sweet  chopped  pickles         2  bunches  celery 

Cook  potatoes  until  soft  and  drain  well.  Add  other  ingredients  mixing 

well.  Make  ahead  so  that  ingredients  can  blend. 

Jewel  Crawford  Decie  Kenyon,  Marybelle  Kirk 

SLAW  (Serves  80) 

8  heads  cabbage  8  tsp.  salt 

8  cups  sugar  4  cups  cider  vinegar 

8  tsp.  black  pepper  4  cups  catsup 

Prepare  the  cabbage  for  slaw.  Sprinkle  sugar  on  cabbage  and  let  sit  until 
watery  (minimum  30  minutes).  Add  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar.  Add 
catsup  (add  more  if  needed).  Chill  at  least  24  hours.  Stir  before  serving. 

Susan  Nichols 

CHERRY  YUM- YUM  (100  Servings) 

8  cups  Graham  cracker  crumbs       4  (8  oz.)  pkg.  cream  cheese 

4  sticks  butter  4  cups  milk 

4  boxes  (9  Oz.)  dream  whip  4  No.  303  cans  cherries 

Mix  graham  cracker  crumbs  and  butter.  Put  in  bottom  of  pan.  Cover 
with  cherries.  Mix  Dream  Whip,  cheese  and  milk.  Put  on  top. 

Anne  Hawkins 


Cooking  for  a  Crowd 1 3  2 


COCONUT  CAKE 
Make  6  of  the  following  to  feed  100 

1  Duncan  Hines  White  Cake  Icing: 

Mixes  1  (6  oz.)  package  frozen  coconut 

3/4  cup  sugar 
1  1/2  cup  milk 
1  container  Cool  Whip 

Mix  cake  mix  as  directed  on  box  and  bake  in  9x13  inch  pan.  Top  with 

icing  while  still  hot. 

Icing:  Bring  sugar,  milk,  and  1/2  package  coconut  to  a  boil.  Simmer  10 

minutes.  Pour  over  cake  while  cake  and  coconut  mixture  are  still  hot. 

When  cool,  top  with  Cool  Whip  and  remaining  1/2  package  of  coconut. 

Mary  Andrews 


GUIDE  TO  QUANTITY  SERVING  -  For  50  People 

6-8  two-quart  casserole  dishes,  with  meat  or  fish  base 
6-8  medium  size  bowls  of  salad 

1  quart  salad  dressing 

5  one-pound  loaves  sliced  bread 

6  dozen  rolls 

7  loaves  French  bread 

5  eight-inch  layer  cakes 

4  oz.  bulk  tea  to  2  1/2  gallons  water 

12  1/2  quarts  sweet  milk 

2  pounds  coffee  -  when  allowing  2  cups  for  each  person 

2  pounds  cube  sugar 

1  pound  granulated  sugar 

Coffee  cream  -  2  quarts  homogenized  milk  with  two  14  1/2  oz.  cans 
evaporated  milk. 

4  No.  3  (46  oz.)  cans  fruit  or  vegetable  juice  for  appetizers 

5  medium  size  heads  of  lettuce  for  garnishes  or  salad  base 

8  medium  size  heads  of  lettuce  for  full  salad 

3  12  oz.  bottles  chili  sauce  to  mix  with  1  quart  mayonnaise  for  Thousand 

Island  Dressing 
15-20  pounds  potatoes  for  mashing 

2  gallons  punch 


IViscCom 

from 

the 

Tast 


Wisdom  from  the  Past  1 3  3 


HOME  REMEDIES  AND  HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 

The  following  is  a  careful  compilation  of  tried  and  approved  recipes  and 

hints  by  the 
LADIES  AID  SOCIETY  OF  PRESBYTERIAN  CHURCH.Chipley  Florida. 

From  a  cook  book  compiled  in  1912  and  submitted  by 
Satira  (Cookie)  Wilson  from  her  mother: 

CROUP-Melt  butter  and  molasses  together  and  give  until  child 
vomits.  Very  easy  and  very  sure. 

FOR  CROUP  IN  CHICKENS-Hogs  lard  and  sulphur  equal  parts, 
or  dry  sulphur  blown  down  the  fowl's  throat. 

QUINSY~Tar  spread  on  the  throat  and  quite  up  under  the  ears;  cover 
with  a  cloth  and  go  to  sleep,  and  wake  up  well.  Only  a  brown  stain  will 
remain;  it  is  easily  washed  off  and  is  a  sure  relief.  Recommended  for 
diphtheria  or  scarlet  fever. 

TO  STOP  NOSE  BLEEDING-Place  a  penny  between  the  upper  lip 
and  teeth;  hold  there  a  few  minutes.  Never  fails. 

RECIPE  FOR  QUARRELING--Take  a  root  of  sassafras  and  steep 
in  a  pint  of  water  and  put  in  a  bottle  and  when  your  husband  comes  in  to 
quarrel,  fill  your  mouth  with  it  and  hold  until  he  goes  away.  A  sure  cure. 

TO  BEAUTIFY  THE  HAIR«Put  1  ounce  pulverized  sulphur  into  1 
quart  rain  water,  shake  well  every  few  hours,  then  pour  liquid  off  and 
saturate  the  scalp  every  morning.  Cures  dandruff  and  falling  out  of  hair. 

CURE  FOR  ALCOHOLISM«In  the  morning  before  breakfast,  an 
orange  should  be  eaten,  one  about  9  o'clock,  one  before  dinner,  one  before 
supper  and  one  before  retiring;  continue  for  one  week.  The  second  week  4 
oranges  per  day  will  be  sufficient,  the  third  week  3  and  the  fourth  week  the 
tippler  won't  be  able  to  bear  the  smell  of  alcohol. 

DISINFECTANT—Chloride  of  lime,  as  well  as  being  a  disinfectant, 
is  useful  to  drive  away  rats  from  cellars. 

WHEN  PEELING  ONIONS  begin  at  the  root  end  and  peel  upwards 
and  the  onions  will  scarcely  affect  your  eyes  at  all. 

WHEN  MASHING  POTATOES  use  hot  milk,  and  if  you  have  been 
in  the  habit  of  using  cold,  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  difference  in  its 
lightness. 

NEVER  ATTEMPT  TO  MAKE  JELLY  in  damp  or  cloudy 
weather  if  firmness  or  clearness  is  desired. 


Wisdom  from  the  Past  134 


TO  KEEP  FLIES  FROM  HORSES-Take  two  or  three  handful  of 
green  walnut  leaves,  pour  over  two  or  three  quarts  of  soft  cold  water;  let 
stand  one  night,  pour  in  a  kettle  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  When  cold,  wet  a 
sponge  and  before  the  horse  goes  out  of  the  stable,  let  those  parts  which  are 
most  irritated  be  washed  over  with  the  liquid. 

CHICKEN  LICE~The  bet  remedy  for  lice  in  poultry  houses  is  to 
add  one  pound  of  concentrated  lye  to  a  boiler  of  soap  suds,  and  apply  hot 
on  the  walls,  floors  and  roofs  of  the  houses.  All  lice  and  nits  will  then  be 
destroyed.  If  the  roosts  are  suspended  by  rods  from  the  rafters  and  not 
allowed  to  touch  the  sides  of  the  house,  there  will  be  less  trouble  with  lice. 

RHEUMATISM  CURE~Five  cents  worth  nitre  potassium,  twenty 
cents  worth  iodide  potassium,  in  one  pint  water.  Take  one  tablespoonful 
three  time  a  day  before  each  meal.  If  followed  as  directed  will  cure  without 
fail. 

TO  STOP  HICCOUGHS-Put  a  few  drops  of  good,  cider  vinegar  on 
a  lump  of  sugar.  Let  dissolve  in  mouth. 

RULE  FOR  STAINS--A  good  standing  rule  for  stains  should  be 
tacked  up  on  the  wall  of  every  kitchen.  Use  hot  water  and  no  soap  for  all 
fruit  stains.  Use  cold  water  and  soap  for  tea,  coffee  and  cocoa  stains.  A 
little  though  and  know  ledge  along  this  line  would  save  an  immense  lot  of 
trouble  and  result  in  better  looking  table  linen. 


HOW  TO  PRESERVE  A  HUSBAND 

Be  careful  in  your  selection;  do  not  choose  too  young,  and  take  only  such 
as  have  been  reared  in  a  good  moral  atmosphere.  Some  insist  on  keeping 
them  in  a  pickle,  while  others  keep  them  in  hot  water.  This  only  makes 
them  sour,  hard  and  sometimes  bitter.  Even  poor  varieties  may  be  made 
sweet,  tender  and  good  by  garnishing  them  with  patience,  well  sweetened 
with  smiles  and  flavored  with  kisses  to  taste;  then  wrap  them  in  a  mantel 
of  charity,  keep  warm  with  a  steady  fire  of  domestic  devotion  and  serve 
with  peaches  and  cream.  When  thus  prepared  they  will  keep  for  years. 


Wisdom  from  the  Past  1 3  5 


BREAD 

"But  tho'  so  much  of  learning  had  been  crammed  into  her  head, 
She  couldn't  for  the  life  of  her  compound  a  load  of  bread.  " 

When  a  well-bred  girl  expects  to  wed, 
'tis  well  to  remember  that  men  like  bread. 

We're  going  to  show  the  steps  to  take, 
So  she  may  learn  good  bread  to  make. 

First,  mix  a  luke  warm  quart,  my  daughter, 
One-half  of  milk  and  one-half  of  water; 

To  this  please  add  two  cakes  of  yeast, 
Or  the  liquid  kind  if  preferred  in  the  least. 

Next  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  nice  clear  salt, 
If  this  bread  isn't  good,  it  won't  be  our  fault, 

Now  add  the  sugar,  tablespoonfuls  three, 
Mix  well  together,  for  dissolved  they  must  be. 

Pour  the  whole  mixture  into  an  earthen  bowl, 
A  pan's  just  as  good,  if  it  hasn't  a  hold. 

It's  the  cook  and  the  flour,  not  the  bowl  or  the  pan, 
That  "makes  the  bread  that  makes  the  man." 

Some  people  like  a  little  shortening  power, 
If  this  is  your  choice,  just  add  to  the  flour 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  and  jumble  it  about, 
'till  the  flour  and  lard  are  mixed  without  doubt. 

Next  stir  the  flour  into  the  mixture  that's  stood 
Waiting  to  play  its  part  to  make  the  bread  good, 

Mix  it  up  thoroughly,  but  not  too  thick; 
Some  flours  make  bread  that's  more  like  a  brick. 

Now  grease  well  a  bowl  and  put  the  dough  in, 
Don't  fill  the  bowl  full,  that  would  be  a  sin; 

For  the  dough  is  all  right  and  it's  going  to  rise, 
'Till  you  will  declare  that  it's  twice  the  old  size. 


Wisdom  from  the  Past  136 


Brush  the  dough  with  melted  butter,  as  the  recipes  say; 
Cover  with  a  bread  towel,  wet  in  a  warm  place  to  stay 
Two  hour  or  more,  to  rise  until  light. 
When  you  see  it  grow,  you'll  know  it's  all  right 

As  soon  as  it's  light,  place  again  on  the  board; 

Knead  it  well  this  time.  Here  is  knowledge  to  hoard. 
Now  back  in  the  bowl  once  more  it  must  go. 

And  set  again  to  rise  for  an  hour  or  so. 

Form  the  dough  gently  into  loaves  when  light. 

And  place  it  in  bread  pans,  greased  just  right. 
Shape  each  loaf  you  make  to  half  fill  the  pan. 

This  bread  will  be  good  enough  for  any  young  man. 

Next  let  it  rise  to  the  level  of  pans—no  more, 

Have  the  temperature  right—don't  set  near  a  door. 
We  must  be  careful  about  draughts,  it  isn't  made  to 
freeze, 
Keep  the  room  good  and  warm-say  seventy-two  degrees 

Now  put  in  the  oven;  it's  ready  to  bake; 

Keep  uniform  fire,  great  results  are  at  stake. 
One  hour  more  of  waiting  and  you'll  be  repaid 

By  bread  that  is  worthy  a  "well-bred  maid." 


"We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 

We  may  live  without  conscience  and  live  without  heart, 

We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  books, 

But  civilized  men  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books— what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 

He  may  live  without  love— what  is  passion  but  pining? 

He  may  live  without  hope— what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining?" 

-Owen  Meredith. 


Wisdom  from  the  Past  137 


RECIPE  FOR  A  HAPPY  DAY 

Take  a  little  dash  of  cold  water, 

A  little  leaven  of  prayer, 

A  little  bit  of  sunshine  gold 

Dissolve  in  morning  air. 

Add  to  your  meal  some  merriment 

Add  thought  for  kith  and  kin, 

And  then,  as  a  prime  ingredient, 

A  plenty  of  work  thrown  in. 

Flavor  it  all  with  essence  of  love 

And  a  dash  of  play. 

Let  the  dear  old  Book,  and  a  glance  above 

Complete  the  well-spend  day. 


139 


TABLE  OF  EQUIVALENTS 


Dash 

3  teaspoons 

4  tablespoons 

1  cup 

2  cups 

4  cups 

2  pints 

4  quarts 

2  tablespoons 

4  tablespoons 

2  cups 

pound  rice  (2  cups  uncooked) 
pound  macaroni  uncooked  — 
pound  spaghetti  uncooked  — 

pound  cheese 

/4  pound  cheese 


1/4  cup- 
1/2  pint- 
- 1  pint  - 
1  quart  - 
1  quart  - 
1  gallon- 


2-4  drops 

—  1  tablespoon 
— 2  fluid  ounces 
• — 8  fluid  ounces 
-16  fluid  ounces 
-32  fluid  ounces 
-32  fluid  ounces 
■128  fluid  ounces 


- 1  ounce 1/8  cup 

2  ounces 1/4  cup 

16  ounces 1  pound 

_ — . 6  cups  cooked 

._ 8  CUpS  cooked 

10  cups  cooked 

. 4  cups  grated 

—1  cup  grated 


cup  soft  bread  crumbs 2  slices  bread 

cup  fine  dry  bread  crumbs 4-5  slices  bread 

cup  fine  graham  cracker  crumbs 14  crackers 

cup  vanilla  wafers- 22  wafers 

(8  oz.)  carton  cottage  cheese 1  cup 

(8  oz.)  carton  sour  cream 1  cup 

small  can  evaporated  milk 2/3  cup 

12  cup  heavy  cream 1  cup  whipped  cream 

(6  oz.)  pkg.  chocolate  pieces 1  cup 

pound  sugar 2  cups 

pound  confectioners'  sugar 4  cups  sifted 

pound  box  brown  sugar 2  1/4  cups  packed 

4  medium  potatoes 4  cups  sliced  or  diced 

large  onion 1  cup  chopped 

large  carrot 1  cup  grated 

4  medium  apples 4  cups  sliced  or  chopped 

lemon 3  to  4  Tbsp  juice 

3  medium  bananas 1  cup  mashed 

lb.  cranberries 4  cups 

12  lb.  coconut 3  cups  shredded 

(15  oz.)pkg.  raisins 3  cups 


140 


SUBSTITUTION  CHART 

FOR:  USE: 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 1/4  tsp.  soda  plus  1/2  tsp.cream  of  tartar 

1  tsp.  cornstarch 2  tbsp.  flour  or  1  tbsp.  tapioca 

1  (1  oz.)  square  chocolate 3  to  4  tbsp.  cocoa  plus 

1  tsp.  shortening 

1  2/3  oz.  semisweet  chocolate 1  oz.  unsweetened  chocolate 

plus  4  tsp.  sugar 

1  cup  honey 1  to  1  1/4  cup  sugar  plus  1/4  liquid 

or  1  cup  molasses  or  corn  syrup 

1  cup  sweet  milk 1  c.  sour  milk 

or  buttermilk  plus  1/2  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk 1  c.  sweet  milk  plus  1  tbsp.  vinegar 

or  lemon  juice  or  1  c.  buttermilk 

1  cup  buttermilk 1  cup  sour  milk  or  1  cup  yogurt 

1  cup  light  cream 7/8  cup  skim  milk  plus  3  tbsp.  butter 

1  cup  heavy  cream 3/4  cup  skim  milk  plus  1/3  cup  butter 

1  cup  sour  cream 7/8  c.  sour  milk  plus  3  tbsp.  butter 

1  tbsp.  prepared  mustard 1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

1  tsp.  Italian  spice 1/4  tsp.  each  oregano,  basil,  thyme, 

rosemary  plus  dash  of  cayenne 

1  tsp.  allspice 1/2  tsp.  cinnamon  plus  1/8  tsp.  cloves 

1  medium  onion 1  tbsp.  dried  minced  onion 

or  1  tsp.  onion  powder 

1  clove  garlic 1/8  tsp.  garlic  powder 

or  1/8  tsp.  instant  minced  garlic 

or  3/4  tsp.  garlic  salt  or  5  drops  liquid  garlic 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 1/2  tsp.  vinegar 


GENERAL  OVEN  CHART 

Very  Slow  Oven 250  to  300  degrees  F. 

Slow  Oven 300  to  325  degrees  F. 

Moderate  Oven 325  to  375  degrees  F. 

Medium  Hot  Oven 375  to  400  degrees  F. 

Hot  Oven 400  to  450  degrees  F. 

Very  Hot  Oven 450  to  500  degrees  F. 


141 


CONTENTS  OF  CANS 

Of  the  different  sizes  of  cans  used  by  commercial  canners,  the  most 

common  are: 

SIZE:  AVERAGE  CONTENTS 

8  oz.   1  cup 

Picnic 1  1/4  cups 

No.  300 1  3/4  cups 

No.  1  tall —2  cups 

No.  303 2  cups 

No.  2 2  1/2  cups 

No.  2  1/2 3  1/2  cups 

No.  3 4  cups 

No.  10 12  to  13  cups 


143 


INDEX 
Appetizers 

Cottage  Cheese  Dip 1 

Crab  Meat  Dip 1 

Dill  Dip 1 

Vegetable  Dip 1 

Lemon  Cream  Dip  For  Fruit 2 

"Real"  Salsa 2 

Dried  Beef  Ball 2 

Sausage  Cheese  Balls 3 

Hamburger  Dorito  Bake 3 

Ranch  Pretzels 3 

Pickled  Mushrooms 4 

Party  Ham  Biscuits 4 

Beverages 

Frozen  Punch 4 

Lemon  Punch 5 

Lime  Punch 5 

WMU  Punch 5 

Relishes 

Relish 6 

Chow  Chow 6 

Dill  Pickles 6 

Sweet  Pickles 7 

Soups 

Chilled  Carrot  Soup 9 

Microwave  Chili 9 

New  England  Clam  Chowder 10 

French  Onion  Soup 10 

Hot  and  Sour  Soup 11 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup 11 

Salads 

Blueberry  Salad 12 

Broccoli  Salad 12 

Broccoli  Salad 12 

Broccoli  &  Cauliflower  Marinate 13 

Chicken  Salad 14 

Coca-Cola  Jello  Salad 14 


144 


Cranberry  Salad s 14 

Mother's  Cranberry  Salad 15 

Fruit  Salad 15 

Lime  Salad 16 

Pineapple  Salad 16 

Pretzel  Salad 17 

Salmon  Salad 17 

Seven  Cup  Salad 18 

Seven  Layer  Salad 18 

Slaw 18 

Freezer  Slaw 18 

Southern  Congealed  Salad 19 

Strawberry  Salad 19 

Strawberry  Salad 20 

Sweet  Pickles 20 

Celery  Seed  Dressing 20 

Blue  Cheese  Dressing 21 

Sauces 

Barbecue  Sauce  For  Children 23 

Jiffy  Barbecue  Sauce 23 

American  Heart  Association  Barbecue  Sauce 23 

Marinate  for  Shisk  Kebabs 24 

What's  in  that  Marinate? 24 

Poultry 

Baked  Chicken  Breasts 24 

Create  a  Casserole  (Microwave) 25 

Betty's  Chicken 25 

Crispy  Baked  Chicken 25 

Low-Fat  Bar-B-Que  Chicken 26 

Golden  Barbecued  Chicken 26 

Chicken  Cacciatore  (Microwave) 26 

Chicken  Casserole 27 

Chicken  Casserole 27 

Chicken  Casserole 28 

Chicken  Casserole 28 

Ritz  Cracker  Casserole 28 

Jade  Tree  Chicken 29 

Chicken  Casserole 29 

Chicken  Crunch 29 

Chicken  and  Rice  Casserole 30 


145 


Chicken  and  Wild  Rice 30 

Chicken  Salad 30 

Chicken  Cordon  Bleu 31 

Chicken  Pot  Pies 32 

Chicken  Pie 32 

Chicken  Pie 32 

Chicken  Pie 33 

Old  Fashioned  Chicken  Pie 33 

Parmesan  Chicken  (Light  Cooking) 34 

Greek  Spaghetti  Sauce  With  Chicken 34 

Chicken  Waikiki  Beach 35 

Turkey  in  a  Bag  (Microwave) 35 

Beef 

Beef  and  Macaroni  Casserole 36 

Quick  Ground  Chuck  Dinner 36 

Cowboy  Beans 36 

Hamburger  Delight 37 

Lasagna 37 

Microwave  Lasagna 38 

Pizza  Casserole 38 

Shortcut  Lasagna,  Mexican  Style 39 

Sloppy  Joes 39 

Oven  Porcupines 40 

Bar-b-que  Meatballs 40 

TomalliPie 40 

Spaghetti  Bake 41 

Spaghetti  Sauce 41 

Beef  Stroganoff 42 

Stroganoff  Buns 42 

Texas  Hash  (Microwave) 42 

Oven  Beef  Stew 43 

Mulligan  Stew 43 

Pepper  Steak 44 

Lamb 

Kiwi  Roast  Lamb  Dinner 44 

Orange-Sauced  Lamb  Chops 45 


146 


Other  Main  Dishes 

Pork  Chop  Casserole 45 

Spinach  Quiche 45 

Stuffed  Shells 46 

Breads  &  Rolls 

Angel  Biscuits 47 

Angel  Flake  Biscuits 47 

Cheese  Biscuits 47 

Cheese  Biscuits 48 

Mayonnaise  Biscuits 48 

Novella's  Chew  Bread 48 

Chewy  Bread 49 

Corn  Bread 49 

Corn  Bread  Special 49 

Corn  Bread  Special 49 

Mountain  Cornbread 50 

Muffins 50 

Jenny's  Blueberry  Muffins 50 

Mayonnaise  Muffins 51 

Oat  Bran  Muffins 51 

Williamsburg  Sweet  Potato  Muffins 51 

Banana  Bread 52 

Banana  Nut  Bread 52 

French  Onion  Bread 53 

French  Bread  Braids 53 

Dinner  Rolls 54 

Delicious  Home-Made  Rolls 54 

Whole  Wheat  Rolls 55 

Desserts 

Blueberry  Sauce 57 

Praline  Ice  Cream  Sauce 57 

Banana  Pudding 57 

Cheesy  Pineapple 58 

Chocolate  Delight 58 

Chocolate  Spectacular 58 

Dirt  Cups 59 

Chocolate  Eclairs 59 

Pavlova  (New  Zealand  Dessert) 60 

Persimmon  Pudding 60 

Summer  Strawberry  Dessert 61 


147 


Toffee  Coffee  Torte 61 

Cheesecake 62 

Easy  Cheesecake 62 

No  Fail  Creamy  Vanilla  Cheesecake 62 

Hershey's  Creamy  Chocolate  Cheesecake 63 

Mini-Cheesecakes 64 

Apple  Cobbler 64 

Apple  Dumplings 64 

Apple  Crisp 65 

Apple-Cheese  Crisp 65 

Blueberry  Crunch 66 

Easy  Cherry  Cobbler 66 

"Mock"  Dried  Peaches  for  Pies  (canning) 66 

Blueberry  Nut  Crunch 67 

Fresh  Peach  Cobbler 67 

Peach  Cobbler 68 

Peach  Crinkle 68 

Quick  Cobbler 69 

Pies 

Buttermilk  Pie 69 

Buttermilk  Chess  Pie 69 

Chess  Pie 70 

Chess  Pie 70 

Chocolate  Chess  Pie 70 

Minnie's  Lemon  Chess  Pie 71 

Chocolate  Pie 71 

Chocolate  Pie 71 

Chocolate  Pie 72 

Chocolate  Pie 72 

Grand  Chocolate  Pie 72 

Chocolate  Cream  Pie 73 

Four  Layer  Chocolate  Pie 73 

Buttermilk  Coconut  Pie 74 

Coconut  Pie 74 

Coconut  Cream  Pie 74 

Coconut  Cream  Pie 75 

Impossible  Coconut  Pie 75 

Custard  Pie 75 

Fruit  Pie 76 

Japanese  Pie 76 

Japanese  Fruit  Pie 76 


148 


Japanese  Fruit  Pie i 77 

Lemon  Pie 77 

Lemon  Meringue  Pie 78 

Microwave  Lemon  Pie 78 

Lemon  Blueberry  Pie 78 

Chippie's  Lemon  Chess  Pie 79 

Lemon  Cream  Pie 79 

Lemon  Meringue  80 

Pecan  Pie 80 

Pecan  Pie 80 

Pecan  Pie 81 

Southern  Pecan  Pie 81 

Aunt  Lois's  Pecan  Pie 81 

Pecan  Pie 82 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 82 

Sensational  Double  Layer  Pumpkin  Pie 83 

Three  Kitten  Pie 83 

Cakes 

Apple  Nut  Cake 84 

Apple  -Raisin  Cake 84 

Apple  Roman  Cake 85 

Apricot  Lemon  Supreme  Cake 85 

Applesauce  Cake 86 

Black  Midnight  Cake 86 

Brown  Sugar  Nut  Pound  Cake 87 

Carrot  Pineapple  Cake 87 

1-2-3  Chocolate  Cake 88 

Chocolate  or  Plain  Pound  Cake 88 

Chocolate  Sheet  Cake 89 

Chocolate  Chip  Cake 90 

German  Chocolate  Cake 90 

Coconut  Dessert 91 

Aunt  Grace's  Coconut  Cake 91 

Crusty  Top  Cream  Cheese  Pound  Cake 92 

Date  Cake 92 

Denver  Chocolate  Pudding  Cake 93 

Dirt  Cake 93 

Earthquake  Cake 93 

FruitCake 94 

Fruited  Pound  Cake 94 

Fruit  Cocktail  Cake 95 


149 


German  Style  Upside  Down  Cake 95 

Upside  Down  German  Chocolate  Cake 96 

Heart  Safe  Two  Layer  Cake 96 

Hummingbird  Cake 97 

Hershey  Bar  Cake 97 

Ice  Box  Fruit  Cake 98 

Italian  Creme  Cake 98 

Milky  Wonder  Cake 99 

Mississippi  Mud  Cake 99 

Nettie  Dodson's  Molasses  Cake 100 

Orange  Crush  Pound  Cake 100 

Palmetto  Cake 101 

Petite  Orange  Fruit  Cake 101 

Pineapple  Sheet  Cake 102 

Potluck  Supper  Cake 102 

Punch  Bowl  Cake 103 

Cold  Oven  Pound  Cake 103 

Pound  Cake 103 

Pound  Cake  Delight 104 

Pumpkin  Cake 104 

Red  Velvet  Cake 105 

Sour  Cream  Coffee  Cake 105 

White  Layer  Cake 106 

Williamsburg  Orange  Cake 107 

Frostings 

Caramel  Frosting 107 

Caramel  Icing 108 

Caramel  Icing 108 

Chocolate  Fudge  Frosting 108 

Chocolate  Cake  Filling  109 

Candies 

Chocolate  Balls Ill 

Cheese  Fudge Ill 

Pecan  Confections Ill 

Golden  Peanut  Brittle 112 

Sea  Foam  Divinity 112 

Cookies 

Brownies 113 

Brownies 113 


150 


Brownies -.- 113 

Brown  Sugar  Brownies 114 

Fudge  Brownies 114 

Butter  Cookies 114 

Caramel  Layer  Chocolate  Squares" 115 

Chocolate  Oatmeal  Cookies 115 

Golf  Ball  Cookies 116 

Grandma  Bickel's  Cookie  Recipe 116 

Lemon  Squares 117 

Molasses  Pecan  Cookies 117 

Nut  Rolls 118 

Fudge  Oatmeal  Cookies 118 

Peanut  Butter  Crunch 119 

Peanut  Butter  Delights 119 

Peanut  Butter  Squares 119 

Rice  Krispies  Goodies 119 

Holiday  Shortbread  Drops 120 

Rocky  Road  Fudge  Bars 120 

Spiced  Apple  &  Raisin  Snack  Mix 121 

Swedish  Heirloom  Cookies 122 

Cooking  For  a  Crowd 

Fund  Raising  Bar-B-Que  Sauce 123 

Bar-B-Que  Sauce 123 

Holt's  Bar-B-Que  Pig  Sauce 123 

Brunswick  Stew 124 

Baked  Chicken 124 

Chicken  Casserole 125 

Chili 125 

Fund  Raising  Hot  Dog  Chili 125 

Homemade  Hot  Dog  Chili 126 

Best  Ever  Barbecued  Hambuger 126 

Barbecued  Roast 126 

Meat  Loaf 127 

Easy  Chuck  Roast 127 

Spaghetti  Sauce 128 

Swiss  Steak 128 

Turkey  or  Chicken  Loaf 128 

Turkey  Tetrazzini 129 

Real  Vegetable  Soup 129 

Baked  Beans 129 

Cranberry  Salad 130 


151 


Fruit  Crisp 130 

Hawaiian  Beets 130 

Marshmallow  Fruit  Salad 131 

Potato  Salad 131 

Slaw 131 

Cherry  Yum- Yum 131 

Coconut  Cake 132 

Guide  to  Quantity  Serving 132 

Wisdom  from  the  Past 

Home  Remedies  and  Household  Hints 133 

How  to  Preserve  a  Husband 134 

Bread 135 

Recipe  for  a  Happy  Day 137 

Miscellaneous 

Table  of  Equivalents 139 

Substitution  Chart 140 

General  Oven  Chart 140 

Contents  of  Cans 141 

Microwave 

Microwave  Chile 9 

Create  a  Casserole 25 

Chicken  Cacciatore 26 

Turkey  in  a  Bag 35 

Microwave  Lasagna 38 

Texas  Hash 42 

Microwave  Lemon  Pie 78 

Low  Calorie-Low  Cholesterol 

American  Heart  Association  Barbecue  Sauce 23 

Parmesan  Chicken 34 

Heart  Safe  Two  Layer  Cake 96 

American  Heart  Association  White  Layer  Cake 106 

American  Heart  Association  Williamsburg  Orange  Cake 107 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


Form  No.  A-368,  Rev.  8/95 


