TX  715 
.S96 
Copy    1 


TX  715 
.S96 
Copy   1 


Cant  Fail 
ook 


ook 


By 

Isatelle  Clark  Swezy 


v 


A 


^ 


(K^ 


an: 


n::u::(3 


MAP  OF  ITALY 


'/ITTUCq 

'IRCIN  OLIVE  OIL 


:t 


FINEST  ITALIAN 

rinr.tNnllVEOlL 


q: 


Published  and  Copyrighted  by 

John  Vittucci  Company 

Seattle,  Wash.  Vancouver,  B.  C. 

Genoa,  Italv 


APR  I    1915 

€)CI,A3993r>2 


IN  preparing  the  Can't  Fail  Cook  Book,  it  has  been  my 
aim  to  include  only  recipes  that  are  practical,  easy  to  prepare 
and  therefore  the  most  helpful.  There  is  nothing  in  this 
book  with  which  even  the  amateur  may  not  have  success  if  the 
simple  directions  be  followed.  The  majority  of  the  recipes  are 
very  inexpensive,  and  the  materials  used  are  ordinarily  to  be 
found  in  every  home. 

A  tin  of  ViTTUcci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  the  pantry  is  a  real 
economy — for  with  it  many  delicious,  appetizing  and  nourishing 
dishes  can  be  prepared  at  little  expense — and  it  is  invaluable  in 
preparing  a  satisfactory  meal  from  the  portions  which  would  not 
otherwise  be  utilized. 

Physicians  recommend  the  generous  use  of  pure  Olive  Oil. 
ViTTUCCi  Virgin  Olive  Oil  contains,  with  the  exception  of  the 
phosphates,  all  the  valuable  properties  of  that  justly  famous 
tonic — cod  liver  oil — with  none  of  its  disagreeable  taste  or  after 
effects — and  the  phosphates  are  obtained  in  many  of  the  foods 
with  which  the  olive  oil  is  employed. 

There  is  probably  no  article  of  diet  which  contains  so  great 
a  food  value  as  olive  oil,  and  for  this  reason  a  taste  for  it,  if  not 
already  possessed,  should  be  cultivated.  For  those  of  you  who  are 
not  now  fond  of  the  flavor  of  olive  oil,  I  especially  recommend 
the  following  recipes : 

Lemon  Butter  Philadelphia  Cream  Pie 

Orange  Custard  Lemon  Pudding  Sauce 

Lemon  Pie  Filling  Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

Chocolate  Eclairs  All  Meats 

Fish  and  Cooked  Vegetables 

in  which  the  flavor  of  the  olive  oil  cannot  be  distinguished.  By 
trying  these  dishes  first,  the  benefit  of  the  oil  may  be  obtained 
and  a  liking  for  it  soon  acquired. 

Read  the  short  articles  preceding  recipes  for  meats,  salads 
and  sandwiches,  then  glance  through  the  index  and  I  believe  you 
will  find  some  suggestion  for  the  next  meal,  something  which  may 
be  prepared  from  the  materials  you  have  at  hand. 

Very  sincerely, 


^:JUl.    (^■^^^^^^^2^ 


OLIVES  are  grown  in  many  parts  of  southern 
Efurope,  in  Africa  and  in  our  own  California, 
but    admittedly    the    finest    are    produced    in 
Northern  Italy,  where  soil  and  climatic  conditions 
unite  to  produce  a  fruit  that  is  perfect  and  of  re- 
markable richness. 

Oil  produced  from  the  olives  of  this  area,  is  noted 
for  its  extraordinary  richness  and  delicate  flavor,  and 
is  considered  the  choicest  production  of  olive  groves 
the  world  over.  Much  greater  care  is  exercised  in  the 
production  of  olives  in  this  district  than  is  given  to  the 
cultivation  of  our  prize  American  apple  orchards. 

The  oil,  which  the  first  gentle  pressing  causes  to 
flow,  from  these  big  sun-kissed  olives,  contains  the 
highest  nutritive  elements  and  tonic  qualities  of  the 
perfect  fruit,  and  is  aptly  named  Virgin  Olive  Oil. 
It  has  all  the  delicacy  and  virtue  of  the  choicest  olive. 

It  is  from  the  choicest  olives  produced  in  this 
section  of  Italy,  and  in  one  of  the  finest  and  most 
modern  plants  in  all  Italy,  that  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil  is  extracted  from  the  tree-ripened  fruit. 

The  olives  are  carefully  hand  picked  to  avoid 
bruising,  and  none  but  the  choicest  fruit  is  selected. 
From  the  time  the  olives  are  thoroughly  washed  in 
clear,  cold  spring  water  until  the  oil  is  hermetically 
sealed  in  the  tins,  it  never  at  any  stage  comes  in  con- 
tact with  human  hands. 

The  virgin  olive  oil  from  the  first  gentle  pressing 
of  the  olives  is  several  times  washed  in  a  spray  of  cold 
water  until  every  particle  of  vegetable  matter  is  re- 
moved. Then  the  oil  is  filtered  first  by  a  special 
filtering  process  and  then  through  the  finest  cotton, 
until  the  purest  oil  it  is  possible  to  produce  results. 
This  is  drawn  into  cans  and  hermetically  sealed  and 


comes  to  you  direct  from  the  olive  groves.  There  is 
not  the  slightest  chance  of  adulteration  or  contamina- 
tion. 

From  the  foregoing  j^ou  will  readily  appreciate 
that  you  may  use  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  secure 
in  the  knowledge  that  every  container  holds  the  choic- 
est extract  of  one  of  the  most  nutritious  fruits  known 
to  mankind. 

Do  not  assume  that  all  olive  oil  is  alike.  There 
are  as  many  varieties  of  olives  as  there  are  of  apples, 
with  as  many  differences  in  taste. 

The  experienced  eye  can  detect  a  great  difference 
in  the  color  of  oil,  usually  indicating  a  like  difference 
in  quality.  A  clear  golden  color  is  evidence,  under 
normal  conditions  of  pure  oil  of  fine  quality.  Some 
oils  are  rather  green  and  others  exhibit  a  tendency 
toward  a  brownish  hue.  These  oils  may  be  pure,  but 
the  olives  may  not  have  been  of  the  best  tasting  va- 
riety, they  may  not  have  been  picked  at  the  proper 
time  a^nd  proper  care  may  not  have  been  exercised  in 
the  extraction  of  the  oil. 

As  there  can  be  but  one  "first  press"  or  Virgin 
Olive  Oil  extracted  from  a  given  quantity  of  olives, 
the  term  "Extra  Virgin"  is  a  misnomer.  Equally 
misleading  is  the  term  "Lucca"  when  applied  to  olive 
oil  to  indicate  quality;  Lucca  is  merely  the  name  of 
the  town  and  district  from  which  olive  oil  is  shipped, 
and,  obviously,  many  grades  of  high  or  low  quahty 
may  be  known  as  "Lucca  Olive  Oil." 

It  is  always  safest  and  undoubtedly  insures  the 
best  results,  to  select  an  olive  oil  that  you  can  always 
depend  on  being  uniformly  of  the  highest  quality,  and 
a  double  guarantee  is  to  ask  for  Vittucci^s  (pro- 
nounced "Ve-two'-che'"). 

In  Europe  olive  oil  has  for  centuries  formed  an  im- 
portant part  of  the  daily  diet,  and  has  and  is  being  used 


extensively  in  cookery.  European  cooks  are  taught 
from  their  earliest  days  to  use  for  frying,  shortening, 
enriching  and  flavoring  foods,  those  natural  products 
which  combine  the  highest  degree  of  nutrition  with 
the  minimum  of  waste,  and  to  the  generous  use  of 
olive  oil  may  be  accredited  in  large  measure  the  suc- 
cess of  French  and  Italian  cookery — and  the  freedom 
of  Europeans  from  digestive  and  stomach  troubles. 

Olive  oil  is  very  generally  used  for  frying,  be- 
cause it  does  not  absorb  odors  from  the  food  and  may 
be  used  over  and  over  again,  simple  straining  after 
each  use  being  all  that  is  necessary.  Fish  are  never 
so  tasty,  dainty  and  wholesome  as  when  browned  to  a 
delicate,  golden  crispness  in  olive  oil,  and  the  same  is 
true  of  doughnuts  and  many  other  standard  house- 
hold articles  of  diet.  However,  to  get  the  best  results 
the  highest  quality  of  olive  oil  should  be  used,  as  the 
heavier  oils  are  sometimes  unpleasant  in  odor  and 
taste,  especially  when  heated. 

Not  very  many  years  ago  olive  oil  was  considered 
a  luxury  and  its  use  was  confined  almost  exclusively 
to  medicinal  purposes.  But  the  American  woman 
learns  quickly — thousands  of  housewives  throughout 
the  land  soon  discovered  that  olive  oil  imparts  to  food 
flavored  with  it,  a  savor  all  its  own.  Within  the  last 
few  years  the  consumption  of  olive  oil  in  this  country 
has  doubled  and  trebled  time  and  again. 

It  did  not  take  the  astute  American  housewife 
long  to  discover  that  here  was  a  means  of  enhancing 
her  skill  as  a  cook  and  at  the  same  time  an  oppor- 
tunity to  counteract  to  some  extent,  the  rapidly  in- 
creasing cost  of  living.  She  found  that  olive  oil  of 
high  quality  would  keep  longer  than  butter,  had  much 
greater  utility  in  preparing  a  greater  variety  of  ap- 
petizing dishes,  and  that  its  generous  use  promoted 


the  health  of  her  family.  Hence,  it  has  become  a 
staple  article  of  food  in  our  homes  and  there  is  prob- 
ably no  one  other  article  of  diet  that  contains  more 
nutritive  value,  combined  with  adaptability  and  rea- 
sonableness of  price.  We  take  pardonable  pride  in 
our  small  part  in  this  advance  in  American  cookery, 
and  it  is  to  further  this  end  that  the  "Can't  Fail  Cook 
Book"  has  been  prepared. 

It  is  to  protect  you  against  imposition  in  the 
selection  of  olive  oil  that  we  have  given  our  product 
its  distinctive  name,  as  guarantee  of  the  absolute 
purity  and  elusive  delicacy  of  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil.  Your  dealer  will  refund  your  money  if  our  oil 
is  otherwise  than  as  we  represent  it  to  be,  the  best  and 
purest  Virgin  Olive  Oil  that  human  care  and  skill  and 
the  choicest  olives  in  the  world,  can  produce. 


^  ^ 


A  Few  General  Direftions 


IN  order  to  avoid  absorbing  grease,  all  food  which 
is  to  be  fried  or  sauted  must  be  put  into  fat  hot 
enough  to  immediately  form  a  crust.  It  is  very 
difficult  with  all  fats  but  Olive  Oil  to  reach  this  de- 
gree of  heat  without  burning  the  outside  of  the  food 
before  the  center  is  cooked.  Olive  Oil  can  be  heated 
to  greater  intensity  without  burning  than  any  other 
known  fat,  it  being  possible  to  reach  a  point  of  over 
600  degrees  with  Olive  Oil,  while  300  to  400  degrees 
is  the  limit  of  other  fats.  For  this  reason  it  is  far 
superior  to  all  others  for  frying  purposes. 

Avoid  frying  too  many  articles  at  one  time  and 
always  reheat  between  each  frying.  Use  a  wire  frying 
basket  for  deep  frying  wherever  possible.  To  test 
ViTTUCCi  Virgin  Olive  Oil  for  frying,  heat  until 
it  begins  to  smoke,  then  drop  in  a  small  cube  taken 
from  the  "crumb"  (soft  center)  of  white  bread.  If 
this  becomes  golden  brown  in  40  seconds,  the  tempera- 
ture is  right  for  previously  cooked  foods,  such  as 
croquettes,  or  for  oysters  or  small  fish,  etc.  For 
doughnuts,  fritters,  poultry,  meats  and  thicker  fish  it 
should  require  60  seconds  for  the  bread  to  brown. 

Always  put  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  a 
cold  kettle  and  bring  slowly  to  the  desired  heat.  Fish 
properly  fried  in  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  could 
not  be  improved  upon. 

All  good  Olive  Oil  occasionally  becomes  thick 
and  cloudy  if  left  in  too  cool  a  place.  While  this  does 
not  in  any  way  impair  the  quality  of  the  oil,  it  makes 
it  more  difficult  to  work  with — especially  in  the  mak- 
ing of  Mayonnaise.  All  that  is  necessary  to  do  is  to 
set  it  in  a  warm  place  until  the  oil  clears. 


RECIPES 


MEASUREMENTS 
ARE  ALL  LEVEL 


Doughnuts,  Biscuits,  Shortcake 


CANT-FAIL  DOUGHNUTS    (Sweet  Milk) 

RECIPE   NO.   1 
(This  makes  about  30) 

4  cupfuls  sifted  flour  1   cupful  sugar 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  salt  2  tablcspoonfuls  Vittucci 

5  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

powder  %   cupful  SAveet  milk 

1   level  teaspoonful  nutmeg  2  beaten  eggs 

Sift  the  flour  before  measuring.  Then  sift 
together  the  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  nutmeg. 
Add  sugar ;  then  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Beat 
the  eggs,  stir  in  the  milk  and  mix  all  together.  Turn 
out  on  a  well  floured  board,  roll  14  ^^^^  thick,  cut 
with  doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

CAN'T-FAIL   DOUGHNUTS    (Sour  Milk) 

recipe   no.  2 

4  cupfuls  sifted  flour  1  tablespoonful  Vittucci 
iy2  teaspoonfuls  salt  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  1   cupful  thick  sour  milk 

powder  14  teaspoonful  soda 

1   teaspoonful  nutmeg  2  beaten  eggs 
1   cupful  sugar 

Measure  flour  after  sifting;  then  sift  again  with 
salt,  baking  powder  and  nutmeg.  Add  sugar;  then 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.     Stir  soda  mto  sour 


milk.  Beat  eggs  light,  then  add  to  them  the  milk. 
Pour  into  the  dry  ingredients;  mix,  toss  on  well 
floured  board,  roll  about  14  inch  thick,  cut  with 
doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  deep  hot  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil. 

TEA  BISCUIT 

(Baking  Powder) 

RECIPE  NO.  3 

(Sufficient  for  3  persons) 

2  cupfuls  flour  .    3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

2  rounding  teaspoonfuls  bak-  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

ing  powder  %  cupful  milk  or  water 
1   level  teaspoonful  salt 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder: 
add  the  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  work  in 
lightly  with  the  fingers.  Add  milk,  roll  on  floured 
board,  cut  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Handle  as  little 
as  possible. 

SHORTCAKE 

recipe  no.  4 

For  shortcake  dough,  use  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 
Recipe,  only  double  the  quantity  of  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil. 


BREAD    MAKING 

Using  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  place  of 
lard  will  make  the  bread  sweeter  and  more  tender. 
Use  the  same  quantity  of  oil  as  you  would  lard.  This 
saves  time  in  mixing.  Greasing  the  loaves  with  the 
olive  oil  before  baking  will  greatly  improve  the  crust. 


Eggs,  Omelets  and  Cheese  Dishes 


ITALIENNE    SCRAMBLED   EGGS 

RECIPE   NO.   5 

Break  the  required  number  of  eggs  in  a  bowl.  To 
6  eggs  slightly  beaten  with  a  fork,  add  1  cupful  of 
canned  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste 
and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Scramble  the  eggs 
in  4  tablespoonfuls  hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

CLAM  OMELET 

RECIPE   NO.   6 
(This  Omelet  contains  a  great  amount  of  nourishment) 

Make  plain  omelet  (Recipe  No.  7) .  Have  ready 
a  sauce  made  as  follows : 

1  cupful  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

y^  cupful  clams  and  liquor  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Heat  the  milk  and  clams.  Mix  together  the 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  flour  and  stir  into 
the  liquid  when  hot.  Season  to  taste.  Just  before 
turning  the  omelet,  spread  half  with  some  of  this 
sauce,  fold  over,  remove  to  hot  platter  and  pour 
balance  around. 

PLAIN  OMELET 

RECIPE  NO.  7 
4  eggs  1/2  teaspoonful  salt 

4  tablespoonfuls  water  Dash  pepper 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Add  the  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  to  the  eggs 
and  beat  slightly ;  then  add  the  water,  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  a  little  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  an  omelet 
or  frying  pan  and  when  hot,  carefully  pour  in  the 


eggs,  and  spread  around  evenly.  Cook  slowly  until 
it  rises  and  begins  to  brown  on  the  under  side.  When 
fully  risen  and  slightly  brown  underneath,  place  on 
center  rack  of  oven  to  cook  the  top.  When  firm  to 
a  light  pressure  of  the  finger,  it  is  done.  Fold  over, 
and  serve  on  a  hot  platter. 

SPANISH  OMELET 

RECIPE   NO.   8 

Make  plain  omelet  (Recipe  No.  7).  Have  ready 
a  sauce  made  as  follows: 

ll/o  cupfuls  canned  or  stewed  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

tomatoes  Sprig  parsley,  minced 

1   teaspoonful  onion  juice  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1   tablespoonful  finely  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

minced  green  pepper  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Let  tomatoes,  peppers,  onion  juice  and  season- 
ing simmer  about  five  minutes.  Mix  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil  with  the  flour  and  stir  this  in.  Cook  and 
stir  until  thick,  then  add  parsley  and  remove  from 
fire.  Just  before  turning  the  omelet,  spread  some 
sauce  on  one  half,  fold  over  other  half,  remove  to  hot 
platter  and  pour  around  it  the  balance  of  the  sauce. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

recipe  no.  9 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  14  teaspoonful  salt 
Virgin  Olive  Oil  Dash  paprika 

1   cupful  grated  cheese  1   beaten  egg  yolk 

(strong)  1/2   cupful  cream  or  milk 

Put  the  oil,  cheese  and  seasonings  in  the  top  of 
double  boiler  over  boiling  water  and  stir  until  cheese 
is  melted;  then  add  the  beaten  egg  yolk  mixed  v/ith 
the  cream  or  milk  and  stir  until  thick  and  smooth,  but 
do  not  allow  to  boil  at  any  time.  Pour  immediately 
over  ?^>es  of  hot  toast  or  toasted  wafers. 

10 


BAKED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

RECIPE   NO.    10 

Oil  a  shallow  baking  dish  or  enameled  pie  tin 
with  ViTTUcci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Carefully  drop 
in  the  required  number  of  eggs.  Sprinkle  each  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  them  %  tablespoonful 
each  of  cream  and  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  to 
each  egg.  Sprinkle  with  finely  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  whites 
are  set. 


I  f 


11 


Fish 

Fish  fried  in  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  is  "par 
excellence."  The  most  perfect  way  to  fry  fish  is  to 
have  the  oil  sufficiently  deep  to  entirely  cover,  although 
this  is  not  at  all  necessary. 


OYSTER,  CLAM  OR  CRAB  COCKTAIL 

RECIPE   NO.   11 
(Sufficient  for  5  persons) 

Put  3  or  4  oysters,  or  the  equivalent  of  crab  meat 
or  clams  in  individual  glasses  and  over  each  pour  a 
tablespoonful  of  sauce  made  as  follows: 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  1   tablespoonful   vinegar 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice 

1   tablespoonful  grated  Few  drops  tobasco  sauce 

horseradish  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste 

1   tablespoonful  tomato  catsup 

BAKED  FISH  NO.  1 

RECIPE    NO.    13 

Rub  the  fish  inside  with  a  cut  onion.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  with  dressing  made  from 
Recipe  No.  41.  Sew  up  the  opening.  Rub  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil  over  the  outside,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  one  cupful 
boiling  water  in  the  roasting  pan,  pour  a  tablespoonful 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  over  the  top  and  bake, 
allowing  about  15  minutes  to  the  pound. 

BAKED  FISH  NO.  2 

Rub  the  fish  inside  and  out  with  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil,  season  and  stuff.  Cover  with  a  thick  paste 
made  of  flour  and  water.    Add  1  cupful  boiling  water 

13 


to  the  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  allowing 
about  18  to  20  minutes  per  pound.  When  done,  re- 
move the  paste  and  serve  the  fish  on  a  hot  platter 
attractively  garnished. 

SUPREME   BOILED   SALMON   STEAKS 

RECIPE   NO.   13 

Have  salmon  sliced  %  inch  thick.  Rub  each  piece 
with  ViTTucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  grate  over  each  a  little  lemon  rind. 
Lay  the  pieces  on  top  of  each  other,  and  put  a 
sprig  of  parsley  between  each.  Wrap  in  oiled  paper. 
Tie  securely.  Boil,  allowing  10  minutes  to  each  slice. 
Arrange  the  slices  on  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve  with  Cheese  Sauce,  Recipe  No.  59. 

BROILED    FISH 

RECIPE   NO.   14 

Have  the  fish  cut  about  %  inch  thick.  Rub  each 
side  with  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  let  stand  about  half  an  hour  or 
longer.  Then  roll  in  flour.  Oil  the  broiler  and  broil 
quickly.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  garnished  with  slices 
of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve  with  Tartare 
Sauce. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

RECIPE   NO.   15 

2  cupfuls  cooked  and  Sweet  cream  to  moisten 

shredded  codfish  Seasoning  to  taste 

3  cupfuls  mashed  potatoes  1   rounding  tablespoonful 
1   beaten  egg  butter,  melted 

3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Bring  codfish  very  slowly  to  a  boil ;  drain  off  the 
water  and  cover  with  fresh  cold  water.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil  drain  again  and  cover  with  fresh 

13 


water.  Let  simmer  very  slowly  until  done.  Care- 
fully remove  all  bones.  Mix  with  the  mashed  potatoes 
and  add  the  balance  of  the  ingredients.  Beat  with  a 
fork  until  very  light.  It  should  be  as  moist  as  can 
possibly  be  handled.  When  cold,  form  into  balls,  dip 
in  flour,  then  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  dry  crumbs 
and  drop  into  hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  and 
fry  to  a  golden  brown.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

These  may  be  cooked  in  less  oil  in  a  sldllet,  if 
preferred,  but  are  more  delicate  when  dropped  into 
deep  oil. 

FISH   CROQUETTES 

recipe   no.   16 
2  cupfuls  left-over  cooked  fish         1  egg 

%  cupful  fine  dry  bread  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

crumbs 

One  cupful  thick  white  sauce  made  with  1  table- 
spoonful  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  flour,  1  cupful  milk.  Heat  the  milk,  mix  the 
oil  and  flour  together  and  add  and  cook  till  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  to  the  mixture,  and  when 
cool  form  into  croquettes,  roll  in  fine  crumbs,  then 
in  egg,  then  crumbs  and  drop  in  deep  hot  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown. 

FRENCHED    HALIBUT    STEAKS    WITH 
FISH   CREAME    SAUCE 

RECIPE   NO.   17 

Cut  slices  of  Halibut  or  other  white  meat  fish 
into  rounds  with  a  large  biscuit  or  cookie  cutter,  re- 
serving the  scraps  for  the  sauce. 

Season  each  round  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip 
in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  a  mixture  of  equal 
parts  corn  meal  and  flour  and  fry  in  hot  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

In  the  meantime,  take  the  scraps  of  fish,  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  until  done.     Pre- 

14 


pare  a  white  sauce,  using,  preferably,  half  cream  and 
half  milk,  although  all  milk  will  answer.  Heat 
and  when  hot  thicken  with  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil  and  flour.  Make  thicker  than  usual  and  dilute 
with  some  of  the  fish  stock.  Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne.  Add  the  fish  scraps  and  simmer  a  few  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly.  Just  before  taking  up,  add 
a  piece  of  butter. 

Arrange  the  circles  of  fried  fish  on  a  hot  platter 
and  carefully  pour  this  fish  sauce  around,  but  not 
over  them.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  hard 
boiled  egg. 

FRIED   TROUT 

recipe  no.   18 

Clean  and  wipe  dry.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
cornmeal  and  fry  in  hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

FRIED   FISH   ROE 

recipe   no.   19 

Drop  the  roe  into  boiling  salted  water  to  which  is 
added  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar  and  simmer  gently 
for  about  15  minutes.  Drain,  wipe  and  chill.  When 
ready  to  fry,  roll  in  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  then  in 
beaten  egg,  then  again  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

This  is  more  delicate  if  dropped  in  deep  V.  V. 
O.  O.,  but  may  be  cooked  very  satisfactorily  in  a 
little  V.  V.  O.  O.  in  a  skillet  if  preferred. 

STEAMED  FISH 

RECIPE   NO.  20 

Spread  over  the  fish,  inside  and  out,  a  little 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Let  stand  about  an 
hour  to  absorb  the  oil  and  seasonings.  Arrange  in  a 
steamer  (or  in  a  colander  over  boiling  water  if  there 

15 


is  no  steamer),  cover  closely  and  steam  about  12 
minutes  to  the  pound.  It  is  done  when  the  flesh  easily 
separates  from  the  bones. 

Remove  to  a  dry  napkin  and  let  stand  a  moment 
to  absorb  some  of  the  moisture.  Arrange  on  a  hot 
platter,  garnish  with  pieces  of  lemon  and  parsley  and 
serve  with  Tartare  Sauce. 

SALMON   TURBOT 

RECIPE   NO.  21 

Use  left-over  cooked  salmon  or  canned  salmon. 
Remove  all  bones  and  skin;  break  the  fish  apart  and 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  white  sauce 
of  4  tablespoonfuls  of  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil, 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  2  cupfuls  milk.  Heat  the 
milk,  blend  together  the  flour  and  oil  and  stir  into 
the  milk  when  hot.  Cook  slowly  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper 
and,  if  liked,  add  1  tablespoonful  minced  parslej'^  and 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Oil  a  baking  dish  or 
casserole,  cover  with  a  layer  of  fish,  then  white  sauce, 
fish  and  white  sauce.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  buttered 
crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

FISH  TURBOT  NO.  2 

recipe   no.  22 

Any  fish  (preferably  w^hite  meat).  For  about  2 
cupfuls  left-over  cooked  fish  freed  from  bone  and 
skin,  make  a  sauce  of: 

1/4  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin  2  cupfuls   milk 

Olive  Oil  1  cupful  fish  stock  (this  can 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  be  made  from  trimmings 

1   tablespoonful  minced  of  the  fish) 

parsley  2  egg  yolks 

IVIake  the  fish  stock  by  covering  the  skin  or  trim- 
mings of  the  fish  with  ll^  cupfuls  cold  water  and 
simmering  until  well  fiavored  and  reduced  to  about 

16 


1  cupful.  Heat  the  milk  and  fish  stock  and  when 
hot  stir  in  the  oil  and  flour  mixed  till  smooth.  Stir 
and  cook  until  thick.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  slightly  and 
add  to  them  very  gradually  some  of  the  partially 
cooled  sauce.  Then  stir  this  back  into  the  balance 
of  the  sauce  and  cook  a  minute  longer,  stirring  vigor- 
ously. Oil  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  fish,  cover 
with  sauce,  sprinkle  over  it  a  bit  of  the  parsley,  then 
more  fish  and  sauce  until  all  is  used.  Cover  the  top 
with  fine  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  about  20 
minutes. 

SALMON  LOAF 

RECIPE   NO.   23 

1   pound  can  salmon   freed  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

from  bone  and  skin  and  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

drained  2  slightly  beaten  eggs 

%   cupful  fine  cracker  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Make  into  a  loaf  and  steam  one  hour.  Serve  hot, 
garnished  with  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Serve  with  Bechamel  Sauce,  Recipe  No.  58. 


T      T 


17 


Meats 


Roasts^  rubbed  all  over  with  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil  and  allowed  to  stand  half  an  hour  or  more 
before  putting  in  the  oven  will  have  a  delicious  flavor. 

Chops,  or  other  meat  to  be  fried,  should  be 
browned  quickly  on  both  sides  in  about  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  then 
allowed  to  cook  more  slowly. 

Stews  may  be  thickened  more  smoothly  and  with 
less  trouble  than  in  any  other  way  by  mixing  Vit- 
tucci Virgin  Olive  Oil  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
flour  (the  quantity,  of  course,  depending  upon  the 
quantity  of  the  stew)  and  stirring  this  into  the  stew 
while  boiling-.    Stir  and  cook  until  it  thickens. 


"&• 


BREADED   ROUND   STEAK 

recipe   no.  24 

Pound  both  sides.  Cut  into  sizes  for  serving, 
dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

FRENCH   ROAST   BEEF 

recipe    no.   2.5 

Prepare  a  dressing  of  4  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil,  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  1 
slice  onion,  V;  bayleaf,  1  tablespoonful  chopped  pars- 
ley. Rub  the  roast  all  over  with  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil,  spread  on  top  this  dressing  and  let  stand 
an  hour  or  more.  Then  roast  in  the  usual  way,  bast- 
ing with  this  dressing  and  add  1/^  cupful  boiling  water 
to  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  about  15 
minutes  to  the  pound. 

18 


BRAISED  HAMBURGER  STEAK 

RECIPE   NO.   26 

Form  hamburger  steak  into  a  large  flat  cake, 
mixing  with  it  1  tablespoonful  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olhte  Oil  for  each  pound  of  steak.  Heat  2  table- 
spoonfuls  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  a  skillet 
and  when  hot,  lay  in  the  steak  and  brown  quickly 
on  both  sides.  Then  pour  over  it  just  enough  milk 
to  come  to  the  top.  Let  cook  slowly  until  the  liquid 
is  almost  entirely  absorbed.  Season  with  salt  and 
pejjper,  remove  to  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with 
i^arsley.    Make  gravy  and  pour  over  it. 

BEEF  LOAF 

RECIPE  NO.   27 

2  pounds  round  steak  ^  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

y2  pound  salt  pork  1   teaspoonful  sage 

1  egg  slightly  beaten  1/2  teaspoonful  sweet 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  marjoram 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  1^  teaspoonfuls  salt 

1/2   cupful  fine  dry  bread  I/2  teaspoonful  pepper 

crumbs  1   cupful  milk 

Have  the  meat  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together, 
form  in  a  loaf.  Put  into  a  well  oiled  bread  pan  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes.  Serve 
hot  or  cold. 

ECONOMICAL  BEEF  LOAF,  WITH  RICE 
A   L'    ITALIENNE 

recipe  no.   28 

1   pound  Hamburg  steak  1/^  teaspoonful  pepper 

1   cupful  dry  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1  tablespoonful  minced  onion  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Mix  all  together,  form  into  a  loaf,  place  in  a 
baking  pan  with  l/o  cupful  boiling  water  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  30  to  40  minutes,  basting  occasion- 
ally. Serve  on  a  hot  platter  surrounded  with  Rice 
a  r  Italienne,  Recipe  No.  55. 

19 


o 


VEAL   AND   BEEF  LOAF 

RECIPE   NO.  29 
(Makes  2  loaves) 
1   pound  fresh  lean  veal  1   teaspoonful  pepper 

pounds  beef  1/4  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin 

1   small  grated  onion  Olive  Oil 

1   tablespoonful  allspice  1   cupful  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoonful  salt  2  eggs  slightly  beaten 

Have  the  meat  chopped  fine  and  freed  from 
gristle  and  fat.  JMix  all  together,  make  into  two 
loaves.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  put  together 
in  the  same  pan.  INIake  three  or  four  creases  across 
the  top  of  each  and  in  the  creases  j3ut  a  little  sweet 
or  sour  cream.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  2% 
hours.    Excellent  either  hot  or  cold. 

CANNELON  OF  BEEF  AND  RICE 

RECIPE  NO.   30 

2  pounds  chopped  round  steak      ^  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt  3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1/^  teaspoonful  pepper  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

2  teaspoonfuls  onion  juice  %   cupful  water  or  stock 

1  slightly  beaten  egg 

Boil  2  cupfuls  of  rice  until  tender.  Make  a  meat 
loaf  of  the  above.  Oil  a  roasting  pan,  set  in  the 
loaf  and  surround  with  the  rice.  Pour  over  all  a  cup- 
ful of  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  about  45  minutes. 

ROUND    STEAK   EN    CASSEROLE 

RECIPE  XO.   31 

2  pounds  or  more  round  steak      1,4  bayleaf 

cut  thick  Sprig  parsley,  minced 

Yn  pound  macaroni  boiled  3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

until  tender  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

1   cupful  boiling  water 

Pound  the  steak  and  cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch 
wide  and  two  inches  long.  Oil  a  casserole  or  baking 
dish  and  lay  in  the  boiled  macaroni.    Cover  it  with  the 

90 


meat  and  pour  over  it  the  oil  and  hot  water,  and,  if 
liked,  1/2  cupful  tomato  juice.  Cover  tightly  and 
cook  in  a  moderate  oven  2^  to  3  hours,  adding  more 
boiling  water  if  necessary.  About  half  an  hour  be- 
fore done,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
done,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour  well  mixed 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil  and  cook  two  or  three  minutes  more. 

HAMBURG   STEAK  BALLS 

RECIPE  NO.  32 

1     pound  chopped  round  steak         2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
1/2  cupful  cracker  crumbs  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

1   teaspoonful  salt  1   tablespoonful  chopped 

y2  teaspoonful  pepper  parsley 

4  drops  onion  juice 

Mix  all  together  and  form  into  flat  cakes.  Heat 
three  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in 
the  frying  pan  and  when  hot  put  in  the  balls  and  fry. 
Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce,  Recipes  Nos.  64  or  65. 

VEAL  PATTIES 

RECIPE   NO.  33 

1  pound  raw  finely  chopped  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

veal  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

1/2  cupful  fine  cracker  crumbs  Salt  and  Pepper  to  taste 
1   egg 

Mix  together,  form  into  cutlets,  dip  in  flour,  then 
in  beaten  egg,  then  fine  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Put  a  small  piece  of 
uncooked  macaroni  in  the  end  of  each  to  resemble  a 
bone. 

STUFFED   PORK   TENDERLOIN 

recipe  no.  34 

Have  the  tenderloins  split  lengthwise  but  not  cut 
through,  and  pounded  flat.  Spread  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil  over  the  inside,  then  stuff  with  dressing 

n 


made  from  Recipe  No.  41.  Tie  securely  and  bake 
about  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  with  a 
little  hot  water  and  1  tablespoonful  of  Vittucci  Vir- 
gin Olive  Oil. 


Poultry 


ROAST  FOWL 

RECIPE   NO.  35 

Clean  thoroughly.  Rub  inside  and  all  over  the 
outside  with  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Stuff  with 
Poultiy  Dressing,  Recipe  No.  41  or  Recipe  No.  42. 
Sew  up  the  openings.  Sprinkle  the  outside  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  in  roasting 
pan  with  1  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  Vittucci  Virgin  Olh^  Oil.  Baste  frequently, 
unless  a  self-basting  pan  be  used.  The  oven  for  poul- 
try should  be  hot.  Allow  about  15  minutes  to  the 
pound. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN 

recipe   no.   36 
(To  serve  in   Patties  or  on  Toast) 

6  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  2^/2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  l/o  teaspoonfuls  pepper 

6  tablespoonfuls  flour  2  cupfuls  diced  cooked 

1   cupful  milk  chicken 
1   cupful  chicken  stock 

Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  Vittucci  Virgin 
Olive  Oil  in  a  frying  pan  and  heat.  When  hot,  draw 
aside  from  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  the  flour  until  very 
smooth.  Pour  in  a  little  of  the  milk  and  stir  until 
smooth,  then  return  to  the  fire  and  add  very  gradually 
the  balance  of  the  milk  and  the  chicken  stock  (or  use 
all  milk  if  there  is  no  chicken  stock) .  Stir  constantly ; 
add  the  seasoning  and  cook  until  thick.  Then  add 
the  chicken  and  the  balance  of  the  olive  oil  and  cook 
a  minute  or  two,  until  the  chicken  is  thoroughly 
heated.  Serve  at  once,  either  in  hot  patty  shells  or  on 
hot,  slightly  buttered  toast. 

33 


CREAMED  CHICKEN  AND  CELERY 

RECIPE   NO.  37 

Use  about  I/4  diced  celery  to  %  diced  cooked 
chicken. 

Cover  the  celery  with  cold  water  and  let  simmer 
gently  until  nearly  soft.  Drain  off  the  water,  saving 
1/2  cupful  to  use  in  the  White  Sauce.  Make  the  sauce 
as  follows: 

3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  ^  cupful  celery  water 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  Salt  and  paprika  to  taste 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  1   rounding  tablespoonful 

1   cupful  chicken  stock  butter 
1   cupful  milk  or  cream 

Heat  the  liquid.  Mix  the  oil  and  flour  and  stir 
in,  add  the  seasonings  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  it  thickens.  Add  the  celery  and  chicken  and 
cook  until  thoroughly  heated.  Just  before  removing 
from  the  fire  add  the  butter. 

FRIED  CHICKEN 

RECIPE   NO.  38 

If  an  old  bird,  parboil  in  boiling  salted  water 
(just  enough  to  cover)  until  almost  done.  If  a  young 
chicken  it  is  better  not  to  parboil. 

Rub  each  piece  with  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour. 
Have  plenty  of  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  the 
skillet  and  when  hot  lay  in  the  chicken.  Brown  quickly 
on  both  sides,  then  reduce  the  heat,  cover  and  cook 
more  slowly.  If  chicken  has  not  been  parboiled,  it 
will  require  considerably  longer. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 

recipe   no.   39 

Clean  thoroughly  and  cut  up  one  medium  sized 
chicken.  Roll  each  piece  in  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with 

24 


flour.  Put  into  a  large  casserole  or  covered  bean  pot 
and  nearly  cover  with  boiling  water.  Cover  closely 
and  bake  slowly  about  four  or  five  hours.  If  desired, 
then  add  some  medium  sized  or  small  potatoes,  an- 
other cupful  of  water  and  cook  until  the  potatoes 
are  done.  When  all  is  done,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a 
paste  made  of  flour  and  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
and  cook  a  few  minutes  more. 

Dumplings  are  good  with  this  dish. 
IMPERIAL  CHICKEN 

RECIPE   NO.  40 

1  chicken  weighing  3  to  4  4  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

pounds  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

2  sweetbreads  5  tablespoonfuls    flour    (more 
1/2  can  mushrooms  if  needed) 

1   cupful  cream  1/2  teaspoonful  celery  salt 

1   cupful  milk  1   cupful  chicken  stock 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Blanch  the  sweetbreads  by  covering  with  boiling 
water  and  allowing  to  stand  a  few  minutes.  Pull 
apart  and  remove  the  skin.  Cut  up  the  chicken,  nearly 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  very  slowly  until 
tender.  Add  the  sweetbreads  half  an  hour  before 
done.  When  done,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  by  heating  the  cream,  milk  and  chicken  stock 
and  when  hot  stirring  in  the  flour  well  mixed  with 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Stir  constantly  and 
cook  until  thick.  Add  the  chicken,  sweetbreads  and 
mushrooms,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  dash  of  caj^enne,  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  12  to  15 
minutes.  Watch  very  closely,  stirring  almost  con- 
stantly to  avoid  scorching,  unless  a  double  boiler  is 
used. 

This  is  especially  fine  for  Chicken  Patties. 

S5 


FISH  OR  POULTRY  DRESSING 

RECIPE   NO.  41 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  salt 


Ys  cupful  ViTTUcci  Virgin 

Olive  Oil 
1^   cupfuls  fine  dry  homemade 

bread  crumbs  with 
1^/2  cupfuls  cracker  crumbs 
or 

2^  cupfuls  fine  dry  bakers' 
bread  crumbs  with 
1/2  cupful  cracker  crumbs 

Mix  together  the  crumbs  and  seasonings.    Pour 
over  them  the  oil,  then  the  boihng  water.    Mix  well. 


^  level  teaspoonfuls  pepper 
1   level  teaspoonful  sage 

Pinch  of  thyme 

Pinch  of  savory 
1   teaspoonful  onion  juice 


OYSTER  DRESSING  FOR  POULTRY 

RECIPE   NO.  42 

The  quantity  given  is  sufficient  for  an  ordinary 
roasting  chicken.  For  turkey,  triple  or  quadruple  the 
quantity. 

1^  cupfuls  dry  bread  crumbs  A  few  celery  seed 

y2  cupful  cracker  crumbs  I/2  pi"t  oysters 

14  cupful  ViTTucci  Virgin  Salt,    pepper,   thyme    and 

Olive  Oil  sage  to  taste 

I   teaspoonful  onion  juice  1   cupful  boiling  water 
1   tablespoonful  minced 
parsley 

Mix  all  together  and  stuff. 


T       T 


36 


Vegetables 


FRENCH  BAKED  CABBAGE 

RECIPE   NO.   43 

Select  a  firm,  white  cabbage.  Boil  15  minutes, 
then  drain  off  the  water.  Add  fresh  boiling  water, 
salt,  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Chop  fine.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  3 
tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  1  well 
beaten  egg,  4  tablespoonfuls  cream  and  a  lump  of 
butter.  Mix  together,  put  into  an  oiled  baking  dish, 
cover  the  top  with  fine  buttered  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  to  a  delicate  brown. 

ITALIENNE  MACARONI 

RECIPE   NO.  44 

1   pound  macaroni  4  tablespoonfuls  flour 

1   can  tomatoes  4  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1   small  onion,  sliced  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Pinch  of  soda  1/2  cupful  grated  Parmesan  or 

1   teaspoonful  sugar  other  desired  cheese 
^  clove  garlic 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender.    While  it  is  cooking,  prepare  the  following : 

Put  the  tomatoes,  sliced  onion  and  garlic  on  the 
fire  and  when  boiling  add  the  sugar  and  pinch  of  soda. 
Let  boil  about  10  minutes  very  slowly.  Then  strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire.  Mix 
together  the  flour  and  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
and  add  to  the  hot  tomatoes.  Stir  and  cook  until 
thick.     Season  to  taste. 

Put  the  cooked  macaroni  in  a  vegetable  dish  or 
platter  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce.  Sprinlde  the  top 
with  the  cheese  and  serve. 

27 


CORN  FRITTERS 

RECIPE   NO.  45 
1   can  corn  ll/2  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1  cupful  flour  2  eggs 

Seasoning  to  taste 

Season  the  corn  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  add  the  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Sift  together  the 
flour  and  baking  powder  and  beat  all  to  a  smooth 
batter.  Drop  from  a  tablespoon  into  hot  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain 
on  brown  paper  and  serve  very  hot. 

ESCALLOPED   ONIONS 

recipe   no.  46 

Boil  dry  onions  until  tender.    Make  sufficient 
sauce  to  cover  when  sliced,  allowing  the  following 
proportions  for  each  cupful  of  sauce  desired. 
2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  14  cupful  water  in  which 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  onions  were  boiled 

1   tablespoonful  flour  Salt,  pepper  and  cayenne 

%  cupful  milk  to  taste 

Oil  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of  onions, 
pour  over  some  of  the  sauce,  then  onions  and  sauce 
until  all  is  used.  Sprinkle  top  with  fine  dry  bread 
crumbs  buttered  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

recipe   no.  47 

Parboil  medium  sized  onions  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  almost  tender.  Remove  part  of  the  cen- 
ters, leaving  rather  a  thin  shell.  Mix  the  portion  re- 
moved with  any  left-over  meat  (preferably  beef  or 
mutton)  minced  fine.  Season  to  taste  and  add  to  it 
1  tablespoonful  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  for  each 
onion,  and  any  gravy  there  may  be.  If  no  gravy, 
moisten  with  a  little  water.  Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the 
onion  shells  with  salt,  fill  with  the  mixture,  cover  the 
tops  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  for  about  half  an 
hour. 

28 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

RECIPE   NO.   48 

Pare  and  cut  medium  sized  potatoes  into  eighths 
and  drop  into  cold  water.  When  all  are  ready,  wipe 
dry.  Heat  sufficient  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
to  thoroughly  cover,  put  the  potatoes  in  a  frying 
basket  and  set  in  the  hot  oil  (see  General  Directions) . 
When  almost  tender,  remove  from  the  oil  for  two  or 
three  minutes  while  reheating  the  oil  until  very  hot. 
Return  potatoes  to  hot  oil  and  finish  cooking  for 
three  or  four  minutes.  When  done,  remove,  sprinkle 
well  with  salt  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish  in  which  is  a 
folded  napkin.  Potatoes  French  Fried  in  this  manner 
will  be  a  beautiful  golden  brown  with  a  crisp  crust 
on  the  outside,  and  almost  creamy  inside. 

LYONNAISE   POTATOES 

RECIPE   NO.   49 
1  pint  cold  boiled  potatoes  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

1   tablespoonful  minced  onion  Seasoning  to  taste 

1  tablespoonful  minced 
parsley 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  dice.  Fry  the  minced 
onion  in  hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  until  light 
brown.  Stir  in  the  potatoes,  season  to  taste  and  fry 
brown.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire  add  the 
minced  parsley. 

ESCALLOPED   TOMATOES 

RECIPE   NO.   50 
Canned  or  stewed  tomatoes  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Seasoning  Onion 

Bread  crumbs 

Rub  the  tomatoes  through  a  colander  or  mash 
with  a  fork.  Have  about  equal  quantity  coarse,  dry 
bread  crumbs.  Season  tomatoes  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper  and  onion  juice  or  minced  onion.  To  1  cup- 
ful bread  crumbs  allow  about  4  tablespoonfuls  Vit- 
tucci Virgin  Olive  Oil.       Mix  the  oil  with  the 

29 


crumbs.  Put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  in  a  baking  dish  or 
casserole,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  add  tomatoes  and 
crumbs  until  all  are  used.  Cover  the  top  with  small 
squares  of  buttered  dry  bread  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  half  an  hour  uncovered. 

FRIED   TOMATOES 

RECIPE    NO.    51 

Slice  fresh  tomatoes  1/3  inch  thick,  without  peel- 
ing, and  season  each  side  with  plenty  of  salt  and 
pepper.    Make  a  batter  for  6  tomatoes  as  follows : 

%  cupful  flour  1/2  cupful  milk 

y<2^  teaspoonful  baking  powder         1   beaten  egg 
14  teaspoonful  salt 
Dash  cayenne 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  ^^^^ 
mix  it  with  the  milk  and  then  beat  all  to  a  smooth 
batter.  Dip  each  slice  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  4  table- 
spoonfuls  ViTTucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

FRIED  TOMATOES   NO.   2 

RECIPE  NO.   53 

Slice  tomatoes  1/3  to  %  inch  thick.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  Vit- 
Tucci  Virgin  Oli\^  Oil.  Serve  on  a  hot  chop  platter. 
Mince  parsley  and  sprinkle  over  the  top. 

STUFFED   TOMATOES   NO.   1 

RECIPE   NO.  53 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  top  of  fresh  tomatoes 
and  carefully  scoop  out  the  center.  Sprinkle  the  in- 
side of  the  tomato  shell  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
season  the  part  removed  to  taste.  To  each  tomato 
allow  1  tablespoonful  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
and  1  teaspoonful  finely  minced  onion.  Take  an 
equal  quantity  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  mix  together, 
refill  the  shells,  put  on  the  tops  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  40  minutes. 

30 


STUFFED  TOMATOES  NO.  2 

RECIPE   NO.   54 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  top  of  fresh  tomatoes  and 
scoop  out  the  center.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  To  each  tomato  allow  2  teaspoonfuls  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil,  1  rounding  tablespoonful  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  1  rounding  tablespoonful  minced 
green  pepper  (or  this  may  be  omitted)  and  a  table- 
spoonful of  bread  crumbs.  Mix  together,  refill  the 
tomatoes,  sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  cheese  and 
bake  about  half  an  hour. 

RICE  A  L'   ITALIENNE 

recipe  no.   55 

1   cupful  well  washed  rice  2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

4  cupfuls  cold  water  1/4  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin 
1   large  green  pepper,  minced  Olive  Oil 

1   small  onion,  minced  2   cupfuls  stewed  or  canned 
14   clove  garlic  tomatoes 

Put  the  water,  pepper,  onion,  garlic  and  salt  on 
the  fire,  and  when  boiling,  remove  the  garlic  and  sift 
in  the  rice.  Boil  until  almost  tender,  then  add  the 
tomatoes  and  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  and 
simmer  until  the  rice  is  done  and  tomato  almost 
absorbed. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

recipe   no.   56 

Wash  the  peppers,  cut  in  half  lengthwise  and  re- 
move the  seeds.  To  six  halves,  allow  one  extra  pepper, 
to  be  chopped  and  mixed  with  the  filling. 

Season  %  a  can  of  corn  (or  less)  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  a  tablespoonful  minced  onion,  1  chopped 
green  pepper,  I/2  cupful  fine  dry  bread  crumbs  and 
3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Mix 
thoroughly,  stuff  the  pepper  shells,  moisten  with  a 
very  little  milk  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  peppers  are  tender  (about  half  an  hour) . 

31 


Sauces 


ANCHOVY  SAUCE  FOR  MACARONI 
OR  SPHAGETTI 

RECIPE   NO.   57 
Small  can  of  Italian  Salt  A  little  parsley 

Anchovies  2  sections  of  garlic 

Small  bunch  of  celery  2  small  onions 

Wash  anchovies  and  remove  bone.  Chop  ever}^- 
thing  together  fine.  Place  in  a  pan  with  half  a  cup 
of  ViTTucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  stir  continually  and 
cook  until  brown.  Then  add  one  can  of  tomatoes; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  cook  very  slowly  for  about 
two  hours. 

(Sufficient  to  serve  eight  people) 

BECHAMEL   SAUCE 

RECIPE  NO.  58 

3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  %  cupful  chicken  stock 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  Yo  cupful  cream 
3  tablespoonfuls  flour  1   tgg  yolk 

Yo  teaspoonful  (scant)  salt 
Dash  paprika 

]\Iix  the  flour  and  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
very  smooth,  then  add  the  beaten  egg  yolk;  stir  well, 
and  add  the  cream  and  chicken  stock  gradually. 
Season  and  let  stand  over  boiling  w^ater  for  five  or 
six  minutes. 

CHEESE   SAUCE 

RECIPE  NO.  59 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  %  cupful  strong  cheese. 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  grated  fine 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  1   tablespoonful  minced 

1   egg  yolk  parsley 
1   cupful  milk 

Beat  the  egg  yolk  slightly  and  add  to  the  milk. 
Put  the  oil  and  flour  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  and 

32 


stir  in  the  liquid  gradually.  Cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  dash  of  cayenne.  Beat  in  the  grated  cheese,  remove 
at  once  from  the  fire  and  add  the  minced  parsley. 
Serve  hot.  Especially  good  with  fish,  asparagus  or 
cauliflower. 

TARTARE  SAUCE  NO.  1 

RECIPE   NO.   60 
1   cupful  Mayonnaise  1   tablespoonful  finely  minced 

Yn  tablespoonful  finely  minced  olives 

capers  2  tablespoonfuls  finely  minced 

sweet  gherkins 

Prepare  the  Mayonnaise,  then  add  the  minced 
capers,  olives  and  pickles.     Serve  with  fish. 

TARTARE  SAUCE  NO.  2 

RECIPE    NO.   61 

1  cupful  Mayonnaise  2  tablespoonfuls  minced  dill 

2  tablespoonfuls  minced  or  sour  pickle 

canned  pimento 

Prepare  the   INIayonnaise,   then   add   the  finely 
minced  pimento  and  pickle. 

TARTARE  SAUCE  NO.  3 

RECIPE   NO.   63 
1   cupful  Mayonnaise  1   small  dill  pickle,  minced 

1/2  cupful  finely  chopped 
cabbage 

Prepare  the  Mayonnaise,  Recipe  No.  94,  then 
add  the  chopped  cabbage  and  minced  pickle. 

MINT   SAUCE 

RECIPE  NO.   63 

^  cupful  finely  minced  mint  I/2  teaspoonful  salt 

leaves  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
1   tablespoonful  powdered  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

sugar  1/2  cupful  mild  vinegar 

Mix  all  together.    Serve  with  lamb  or  mutton. 

33 


TOMATO  SAUCE 

RECIPE   NO.   64 
1   can  tomatoes  I/4  bayleaf 

1   medium  sized  onion^  sliced  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1   clove  3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1   sprig  parsley  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Put  all  together  excepting  the  oil  and  flour  and 
simmer  gently  for  10  to  15  minutes.  Strain  through 
a  sieve. 

Mix  the  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  flour  to 
a  smooth  paste  and  stir  in.  Return  to  the  fire  and 
cook  slowly  three  or  four  minutes. 

This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  use  with  fish  or 
meat,  or  added  to  rice  or  macaroni. 

TOMATO   SAUCE  NO.  2 

recipe    no.   65 
1  tablespoonful  Vittucci  %  pint  strained  tomatoes 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  1  bay  leaf 

1  tablespoonful  flour  1/2  teaspoonful  salt 

1   tablespoonful  onion  juice 

Strain  the  tomatoes,  add  onion  juice,  bay  leaf 
and  salt.  Rub  oil  and  flour  together  in  a  saucepan; 
add  the  tomato  and  stir  until  boiling;  stand  in  hot 
water  for  10  minutes,  strain  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE 

recipe   no.    66 
3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  1  tablespoonful  minced 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  parsley 

1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice        V^  teaspoonful  salt 

Cayenne  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  together  and  serve  with  steak  or  fish. 


f         f 


34 


Salads 


There  is  probably  no  dish  which  adds  more  to  a 
luncheon,  tea,  or  dinner  than  an  attractively  prepared 
salad,  and  no  dish  in  which  there  is  greater  possibility 
for  the  display  of  originality.  In  making  a  salad,  do 
not  attempt  to  exactly  follow  proportions  given  in  a 
recipe.  Use  your  own  judgment  and  combine  what 
you  may  have  on  hand  which  will  combine  attrac- 
tively. While  definite  proportions  are  given  herein, 
it  is  merely  intended  that  they  serve  as  ideas,  which 
may  be  changed  to  appeal  to  the  taste  and  conven- 
ience of  the  family. 

One  thing  should  be  borne  in  mind :  a  salad  which 
is  to  be  the  principal  dish  at  a  meal  should  be  sub- 
stantial. Such  combinations  as  diced  cold  meat,  first 
marinated  in  French  Dressing,  then  drained,  mixed 
with  diced  potatoes,  celery,  etc.,  and  mixed  with 
Mayonnaise  or  Boiled  Salad  Dressing,  or  fish  with 
hard  boiled  egg  are  appropriate,  or  a  combination  of 
substantial  vegetables,  mixed  with  the  heavier  dress- 
ings. Where  a  salad  is  to  be  used  merely  as  an  "appe- 
tizer" or  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  hearty  meal,  it 
should  be  light  and  dainty — such  as  a  green  salad  or 
fruit  salad,  served  with  French  or  any  preferred 
dressing. 

When  preparing  a  French  Dressing,  a  very 
agreeable  flavor  may  be  obtained  by  rubbing  the  bowl 
with  a  clove  of  bruised  garlic  or  a  cut  onion,  or  leave 
the  garlic  in  the  bowl  while  mixing  the  French  Dress- 
ing, removing  it  when  mixed. 

Almost  any  combination  of  vegetables,  such  as  a 
spoonful  of  peas,  a  few  cooked  string  beans,  a  little 
cucumber  or  cauliflower,  mixed  together  and  allowed 


35 


to  marinate,  then  drained  and  mixed  with  Mayon- 
naise or  Boiled  Dressing,  are  deHcious. 

There  is  an  endless  possibility  for  converting  left- 
overs into  delicious  salads,  if  mixed  with  any  of  the 
salad  dressings  found  in  this  book. 


APPLE  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.  67 

Select  medium  sized,  attractive  red  apples.  Do 
not  pare,  but  cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  top.  Carefully 
scoop  out  the  inside.  Chop  and  mix  with  equal 
quantity  of  celery  and  some  chopped  walnut  meats. 
To  each  two  apples  allow  1  tablespoonful  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  %  teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 
Pour  over  the  mixed  apples,  celery  and  nuts  and  toss 
lightly  with  a  fork.  Refill  the  apple  shells  and  serve 
with  a  spoonful  of  Mayonnaise  on  top. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

RECIPE  NO.   68 

Drain  water  from  a  can  of  asparagus.  Split  the 
stalks  lengthwise,  being  careful  not  to  cut  clear 
through.  Make  a  paste  of  cream  cheese  and  pimento, 
mixed  with  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Work  to- 
gether until  smooth,  then  stuff  the  asparagus  stalks. 
Serve  with  Mayonnaise. 

BEET   SALAD  WITH   PEAS 

RECIPE   NO.   69 

Cut  the  tops  off  boiled  beets  and  scoop  out  the 
centers.  Cut  tops  and  centers  into  small  pieces  and 
mix  with  half  the  quantity  of  peas  and  a  little 
shredded  lettuce.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
mix  with  either  Boiled,  French  or  JNIayonnaise  Dress- 
ing. Fill  the  beet  shells  with  the  mixture  and  put  a 
spoonful  of  salad  dressing  on  top. 

36 


BANANA  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   70 

Peel  bananas  and  cut  in  half  crosswise,  or  if  very- 
long,  cut  in  thirds.  Roll  in  Map  of  Italy  Mayonnaise 
(Recipe  No.  96) ,  then  in  chopped  walnuts  or  peanuts 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

CARROT  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   71 

Scrape  raw  carrots  and  dice  or  put  through  the 
food  chopper,  using  a  coarse  cutter.  Mix  with  bits  of 
lettuce  and  a  little  onion  if  desired.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  French  Dressing,  Recipe  No.  92. 

CHERRY   SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.    72 

Remove  stones  from  Royal  Anne  cherries  and 
fill  centers  with  filberts  or  peanuts.  Arrange  several 
on  a  lettuce  leaf  on  each  plate  and  put  a  spoonful  of 
Boiled  Salad  Dressing  on  top. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   73 

Chop  raw  cabbage  and  mix  with  half  the  quantity 
of  chopped  celery  and  fourth  the  quantity  of  blanched 
almonds  cut  in  strips  lengthwise.  Mix  with  Boiled 
Salad  Dressing,  Recipes  Nos.  88  or  89,  diluted  with 
whipped  or  plain  cream. 

CHEESE  AND  PIMENTO   SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.  74 

Use  about  1/3  canned  pimento  to  2/3  soft  cream 
cheese.  Mash  together  with  a  fork  and  add  a  few 
finely  chopped  olives.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
cayenne  or  paprika.  Work  together  into  an  oblong 
roll,  then  slice  off  thin  slices.  Serve  two  or  three  on 
individual  plates  on  lettuce  leaves  with  Mayonnaise. 

ST 


COTTAGE  CHEESE   SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   75 

Add  chopped  stuffed  olives  and  bits  of  lettuce  to 
cottage  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika,  mix 
with  JNIap  of  Italy  Mayonnaise,  Recipe  No.  97. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   76 

Peel  cucumbers  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise  and 
remove  the  seed.  Put  the  cucumber  shells  thus  made 
in  cold  salted  water  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Wipe 
dry.  To  every  two  cucumbers,  allow  one  additional 
cucumber,  l/o  red  and  l/o  green  pepper  and  1  small 
green  onion.  Chop  fine.  JMix  either  with  Boiled 
Salad  Dressing  or  with  French  Dressing.  Refill  the 
cucumber  shells  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

FRUIT    SALAD   WITH   MAYONNAISE 

RECIPE   NO.   77 

Use  apples,  bananas,  cherries,  oranges  and  wal- 
nuts (or  any  fruit  desired) .  Nuts  to  be  chopped  fine. 
Fruit  to  be  cut  in  small  pieces ;  place  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  serve  with  Mayonnaise. 

LOBSTERS  OR  SHRIMPS  WITH  CELERY 

RECIPE   NO.   78 

Put  celery  in  very  cold  water  for  about  an  hour; 
then  cut  in  small  pieces  with  equal  amount  of  lobster ; 
mix  all  together  with  JMayonnaise.  If  too  thick,  add 
lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  When  mixed  serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   79 

Use  cold  cooked  veal.  Remove  every  particle  of 
gristle  and  fat.  Cut  into  small  dice  and  marinate  an 
hour  or  so  in  French  Dressing.  Just  before  serving, 
mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  diced  celery  and  a  little 
hard  boiled  egg  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves  with  Mayonnaise. 

38 


NOVELTY  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.   80 

2  tablespoon fuls  granulated         Vg  teaspoonful  pepper 

gelatine  Dash  of  cayenne 

1/2  cupful  cold  water  %  cupful  celery  cut  in  small 

3  cupfuls  stewed  or  canned  pieces 

tomatoes  4  or  5  small  green  onions 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  by  soaking  in  the  cold  water 
for  five  minutes.  Bring  the  tomatoes  to  a  boil  and 
add  the  seasoning,  then  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  stir 
till  well  mixed,  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  Add  the 
celery  and  onions  cut  into  small  i3ieces  and  pour  into 
a  mold  which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  When 
firm,  dip  quickly  in  and  out  of  warm  water  to  loosen 
it,  and  turn  out  on  salad  plate.  Serve  with  Map  of 
Italy  ^layonnaise. 

PINEAPPLE   SALAD  NO.   1 

RECIPE   NO.  81 

Use  canned  sliced  pineapple.  Put  one  slice  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  on  each  individual  plate.  To  each  whole 
slice  add  l/o  banana  and  about  V^  orange  cut  in  pieces. 
Add  a  spoonful  of  Boiled  Salad  Dressing  diluted  with 
whipped  cream  and  on  top  put  1/2  an  English  walnut. 
Lay  halved  and  seeded  California  grapes  around  the 
plate. 

PINEAPPLE   SALAD  NO.  2 

RECIPE   NO.   82 

Cut  pineapple  into  cubes  and  mix  with  half  the 
quantity  of  diced  celery.  Serve  with  Fruit  French 
Dressing,  Recipe  No.  92. 

SPINACH   SALAD  NO.   1 

RECIPE   NO.  83 

To  each  cupful  cold  cooked  spinach,  drained,  add 
2  green  onions  cut  fine  and  1  hard  boiled  egg  cut  into 
small  pieces.    Mix  with  French  Dressing. 

S9 


SPINACH   SALAD  NO.  2 

RECIPE   NO.   84 

To  2  cupfuls  cold  cooked  spinach  add  2  hard 
boiled  egg  yolks  and  some  soft  cream  cheese.  Add 
salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Make  into  small  round 
balls,  and  serve  3  or  4  to  each  person  on  a  nest  of 
lettuce  leaves,  with  a  spoonful  of  Mayonnaise. 

SALMON  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.  85 

Remove  bones  from  a  pound  can  of  salmon  and 
drain  off  all  oil.  Chop  1  large  dill  pickle,  2  or  3  green 
onions,  add  1  cupful  chopped  celery  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  minced  parsley.  Mix  all  with  either  Boiled  Salad 
Dressing  or  Mayonnaise  and  serve  in  a  salad  bowl 
lined  with  lettuce  leaves. 

TOMATO  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.  86 

Select  sm.all,  attractive  tomatoes,  cut  off  a  slice 
from  the  top  and  scoop  out  the  center.  Turn  upside 
down  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  drain.  Cut  the  solid 
part  of  the  tomato,  which  has  been  removed,  and  mix 
Vv'ith  it  some  small  pieces  of  cucumber  and  green 
onion.  To  4  tomatoes,  allow  1  cucumber  and  2  or  3 
green  onions.  Mix  with  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil,  add  salt  to  taste.  Refill  the 
tomato  shells  and  put  a  spoonful  of  Map  of  Italy 
Mayonnaise   (Recipe  No.  96)   on  top. 

VEGETABLE   SALAD 

RECIPE   NO.  87 

Cut  into  thin  slices,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  onions 
and  a  little  green  pepper.  Add  lettuce  leaves  torn 
into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  salad  bowl  lined  with 
lettuce  leaves  and  over  all  pour  a  French  Dressing. 

40 


Salad  Dressings 


BOILED   SALAD  DRESSING    (Sweet  Milk) 

RECIPE    NO.   88 


y2  tablespoonful  salt 

2 

egg  yolks  slightly  beaten 

Few  grains  cayenne 

% 

cupful  sweet  milk 

1^  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1/4 

cupful  vinegar 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

V2 

cupful  ViTTucci  Virgin 

1  teaspoonful  mustard 

Olive  Oil 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  the  eggs  slightly- 
beaten.  Stir  well,  then  add  the  milk  gradually.  Put 
on  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  and  stir  till  hot,  then  pour 
in  the  vinegar  very  slowly  and  cook  until  thick.  When 
thick,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  oil  very  slowly. 
When  cold,  and  just  before  serving,  dilute,  if  desired, 
with  whipped  cream.  Plain  cream  may  be  substituted 
if  preferred. 

BOILED    SALAD    DRESSING    (Sour    Milk) 

RECIPE   NO.  89 

1/^  tablespoonful  salt  1   cupful  sour  milk 

11/2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  soda 

2y2  tablespoonfuls  flour  %  cupful  vinegar 

1   teaspoonful  mustard  %  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin 

Few  grains  cayenne  Olive  Oil 

I   egg  yolk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  (except  the  soda)  and 
add  the  egg.  Stir  till  well  mixed.  Dissolve  the  soda 
in  the  sour  milk  and  add.  Put  on  the  fire  in  a  double 
boiler  and  stir  frequently  until  hot,  then  add  the  vine- 
gar very  slowly  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  almost 
constantly.  When  thick,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
pour  in  the  oil  very  slowly.  Just  before  serving, 
dilute  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

41 


PLAIN  FRENCH  DRESSING 

RECIPE  NO.   90 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar  Salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to 

4  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  suit  taste 

Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Put  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  vinegar  and  olive  oil  in 
a  small  bowl  and  mix  well,  then  pour  over  salad  when 
ready  to  serve.  Lemon  juice  can  be  used  instead  of 
vinegar. 

FRENCH  DRESSING    (With  Tomato  Catsup) 

RECIPE   NO.  91 
3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  %  teaspoonful  salt 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  %  teaspoonful  pepper 

1  tablespoonful  vinegar  Dash  cayenne  or  paprika 

2  teaspoonfuls  tomato 

catsup 

Mix  all  together  and  pour  over  a  green  salad. 
PERFECTION   FRENCH   DRESSING 

RECIPE  NO.   93 

1/4  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper 

Olive  Oil  Few  grains  paprika 

1   tablespoonful  tarragon  4  drops  onion  juice 
vinegar  Garlic 

Yo  teaspoonful  salt  Roquefort  cheese 

Rub  the  mixing  bowl  with  a  bruised  clove  of 
garlic.  Remove  the  garlic  and  mix  together  all  in- 
gredients but  the  cheese.  When  well  mixed,  break  in 
bits  of  roquefort  cheese  and  beat  till  creamy.  Excel- 
lent served  with  cauliflower,  asparagus,  spinach  or  fish 
salads. 

FRUIT  FRENCH  DRESSING 

RECIPE  NO.   93 

%  teaspoonful  salt  %  tablespoonful  powdered 
^  teaspoonful  paprika  sugar 

^  cupful  orange  juice  %  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin 
1   tablespoonful  lemon  juice  Olive  Oil 

Mix  all  together  and  serve  with  fruit  salads. 
Excellent  on  a  salad  of  oranges,  celery  and  nuts. 

42 


VITTUCCI  MAYONNAISE 

RECIPE   NO.   94 

4  egg  yolks  1   pint  Vittucci  Virgin 
Salt,  white  pepper,  mustard  Olive  Oil 

Few  grains  cayenne  or  4  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice 
paprika 

Put  all  ingredients  except  lemon  juice  and  olive 
oil  in  bowl  and  mix  well  with  egg  beater,  then  add 
olive  oil,  drop  by  drop.  When  the  mixture  is  of  good 
consistency  the  oil  may  be  added  faster.  When  it  is 
too  thick  to  beat  well  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  then 
add  more  oil,  and  so  on  alternately  until  both  lemon 
juice  and  olive  oil  are  used.  Utensils  should  be  cold. 
Stir  all  one  way.  This  recipe  is  very  simple  and  makes 
the  most  delicious  Mayonnaise  for  all  kinds  of  salads 
— fruit,  vegetable,  fish,  etc. 

(Above  sufficient  for  eight  persons.) 


EGOLESS  MAYONNAISE 

RECIPE   NO.   95 

1   teaspoonful  dry  mustard  %  cupful  vinegar  or  lemon 
1   teaspoonful  cold  water  juice 

1   cupful  Vittucci  Virgin  Salt,  cayenne   and  paprika 

Olive  Oil  to  taste 

Put  mustard  in  bottom  of  mixing  bowl  and  stir 
in  the  water  till  smooth.  Add  oil  very  slowly,  at  first 
drop  by  drop,  stirring  vigorously.  As  it  thickens, 
dilute  with  part  of  the  vinegar,  then  add  oil  and  vine- 
gar alternately,  stirring  constantly.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt,  cayenne  and  paprika. 

In  making  this  Mayonnaise,  be  sure  the  water 
and  mustard  are  mixed  until  very  smooth  before  add- 
ing oil,  or  it  will  not  be  successful. 

43 


MAP   OF   ITALY  MAYONNAISE 

RECIPE   NO.   96 

2  egg  yolks  ( 1  will  answer)  1   cupful  Vittucci  Virgin 

^  teaspoonful  dry  mustard  Olive  Oil 

1   teaspoonful  salt  1   tablespoon ful  vinegar 

Yg  teaspoonful  paprika  I/2  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 
Few  grains  cayenne 

Put  egg  yolks  and  seasonings  in  bowl  and  mix. 
Then  add  oil,  at  first  drop  by  drop,  mixing  in 
thoroughly,  then  a  little  faster,  beating  constantly. 
When  too  thick  to  beat  well,  add  the  vinegar,  then 
more  oil,  then  lemon  and  oil  until  all  is  used. 

Two  egg  yolks  make  a  richer  Mayonnaise,  but 
one  will  answer  if  preferred. 


T      f 


44 


Cakes,  Pies  and  Fillings 


WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

RECIPE   NO.  97 
Ys  cupful  butter  2   rounding  teaspoonfuls 

1^  cupfuls  sugar  baking  powder 

Y2  cupful  milk  3  egg  whites 

1%  cupful  flour  (measured  1   teaspoonful  vanilla 

after  sifting) 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and 
work  together  until  very  creamy.  Sift  the  flour  and 
baking  powder  together  and  add,  alternately  with 
the  milk,  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  whites 
very  stiff  and  dry  and  fold  in;  add  vanilla  and  bake. 
The  oven  should  be  very  slow  until  batter  rises  to  its 
full  capacity  (about  double  its  bulk),  then  increase 
the  heat  and  bake  until  the  cake  shrinks  from  sides 
of  pan.  When  cool  spread  with  either  the  Chocolate 
Cake  Filling  or  Lemon  Cake  Filling,  Recipes  Nos. 
101  and  102. 

CHOCOLATE  ECLAIRS 

RECIPE   NO.  98 
(These  Eclairs  are  very  easy  to  make  and  are  perfect.     No 
flavor  of  oil  can  be  detected.) 

1   cupful  hot  water  1   cupful  unsifted  flour 

Ys  cupful  ViTTUcci  Virgin  14  teaspoonful  salt 

Olive  Oil  3  unbeaten  eggs 

Put  the  water  and  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
together  and  when  boiling,  stir  in  the  flour  and  salt. 
Remove  from  the  fire  at  once.  Cool.  When  cool  drop 
in  the  unbeaten  eggs.  Beat  all  together  vigorously  for 
5  or  6  minutes  or  until  very  smooth.  Drop  from  a 
tablespoon  onto  buttered  pans  in  oblong  shape,  about 
an  inch  wide  and  four  inches  long.  Allow  about  four 
inches  between  each  to  permit  of  spreading.  Bake  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  for  30  minutes. 

45 


Immediately  upon  removing  from  the  oven, 
spread  upon  the  top  of  each  a  httle  melted  chocolate 
sweetened  with  a  little  pulverized  sugar.  When  cold 
split  open  one  side  and  put  in  a  sjDoonful  of  the  fol- 
lowing custard: 

CUSTARD  FOR  ECLAIR  FILLING 

1  cupful  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 
14  cupful  unsifted  flour  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Pinch  salt  1   pint  milk 

2  eggs  slightly  beaten  1^  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten 
and  salt.  Mix  well,  then  add  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil,  then  the  milk  gradually.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  very  thick,  stirring  almost  constantly.  When 
partially  cool,  add  vanilla.    When  cold,  fill  the  eclairs. 

PHILADELPHIA  CREAM  PIE 

recipe  no.  99 
2  eggs  %  teaspoonful  baking  powder 

1   cupful  sugar  14  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cupful  flour  (measured  I/2   cupful  boiling  water 

after  sifting)  II/2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  together  and  stir  in  sugar.  Add  boiling 
water.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt 
and  sift  in;  then  add  vanilla  and  beat  smooth.  Pour 
into  two  well  greased  cake  pans  and  bake  in  rather  a 
slow  oven  until  it  shrinks  from  sides  of  pan.  When 
cool  spread  the  following  filling  between  the  two  layers 
and  on  top : 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  FILLING 

2  eggs  1%   cupfuls  milk 

1/^  cupful  flour  2  squares  unsweetened 

1   cupful  sugar  chocolate,  melted 

y^  teaspoonful  salt  1   teaspoonful  vanilla 

3  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Beat  eggs  slightly  and  stir  in  sugar,  flour,  salt 
and  then  the  oil.  Bring  milk  to  a  boil  in  double  boiler, 
and  when  boiling  stir  this  in.    Add  melted  chocolate 

46 


and  stir  and  cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and 
beat  very  smooth.  When  partially  cool,  add  vanilla 
and  spread  on  cake. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS 

RECIPE   NO.   100 
^  cupful  flour  1   beaten  egg 

y^  teaspoonful  baking  powder  Sliced  canned  pineapple 

14  teaspoonful  salt  1/4   cupful  pineapple  juice 

2  tablespoonfuls  granulated  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

sugar 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and 
salt;  add  the  slightly  beaten  ^^^^^^  then  the  pineapple 
juice.  Beat  to  a  smooth  batter.  Dip  into  the  batter 
slices  of  canned  pineapple  and  drop  gently  into  deep, 
hot  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper;  roll  in  powdered  sugar 
and  serve  hot. 

LEMON  CAKE  FILLING 

RECIPE   NO.    101 

3  beaten  egg  yolks  ^  cupful  cold  water 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  2  slightly  rounding  table- 

ViRGiN  Olive  Oil  spoonfuls  corn  starch 

1    cupful  sugar 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  large  or 
1^  small  lemons 

Mix  the  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  with  the 
beaten  ^^^^  yolks;  add  the  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of 
lemon  and  half  of  the  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
stir  in  the  cornstarch  thoroughly  dissolved  in  the  other 
half  of  the  water.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  almost 
constant^.    When  cool,  spread. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE  FILLING 

RECIPE    NO.    103 
2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  1   cupful  sugar 

Virgin  Olive  Oil  3  egg  yolks 

1^  squares  unsweetened  ^2  cupful  milk 

chocolate  %  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Put  the  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  and  choco- 

47 


late  in  a  skillet  and  stir  until  chocolate  is  melted.  Set 
aside  from  fire.  Beat  the  egg  yolks,  add  the  milk  and 
sugar  and  mix  thoroughly;  then  pour  gradually  into 
the  melted  chocolate  and  oik  Return  to  fire  and  cook, 
stirring  constantly,  until  very  thick.  When  cool, 
sjjread  between  and  on  top  of  cake. 

LEMON  PIE  FILLING 

RECIPE    NO.    103 
(Sufficient  for  1  pie) 

14   cupful  unsifted  flour  l^/^  large  or  2  small  lemons 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  1   cupful  cold  water 

%  cupful   sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1/2  teaspoonful  salt  Virgin  Olive  Oil 
2  eggs 

Mix  thoroughly  the  sugar,  flour,  cornstarch,  salt 
and  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemons.  Add  the  3'^olks  of 
the  eggs  well  beaten,  stirring  in  thoroughly;  then  the 
lemon  juice.  Mix  well,  then  add  the  water  and 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Cook  until  thick,  in 
the  top  of  a  double  boiler,  stirring  frequently.  When 
cold,  spread  in  a  pie  shell  which  has  been  previously 
baked  and  cooled.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  to  them  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  spread  irregularly  over  the  top.  Set  in  a  hot 
oven  or  under  the  gas  flame  to  brown,  watching  closely 
so  it  will  not  scorch. 


f       T 


48 


Pudding  and  Pudding  Sauces 


CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE 

RECIPE   NO.   104 

^2  cupful  sugar  1  square  unsweetened 

1/4  cupful  flour  chocolate,  melted 

1  egg  slightly  beaten  1  cupful  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci  Y2  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Mix  sugar  and  flour.  Stir  in  the  egg,  then  the 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Melt  chocolate  and 
add;  then  the  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick, 
stirring  almost  constantly.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

LEMON  PUDDING 

RECIPE   NO.   105 

1  cupful  fine  dry  bread  1  beaten  egg 

crumbs  ^  cupful  sugar 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  1   pint  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

Virgin  Olive  Oil 

Mix  and  bake  slowly  for  about  40  minutes.  Serve 
with  Lemon  Pudding  Sauce,  Recipe  No.  109. 

PEACH  PUDDING  WITH  WHIPPED 
CREAM 

RECIPE   NO.    106 

2  cupfuls  peaches  (mashed)  4  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

and  juice  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

%  cupfuls  sugar  1^  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  (level)         1   tablespoonful  lemon  juice 
Yz  cupful  cold  water  Grated  rind  of  %  lemon 

2  tgg  yolks  1/^  pint  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and  add  slightly  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  add  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil,  then  the  water  and  peaches.  Cook, 

49 


stirring  constantly  until  very  thick.  When  very  cold 
fold  in  half  of  the  whipped  cream,  using  other  half 
on  top. 

ORANGE  CUSTARD 

RECIPE   NO.   107 

(Will  serve  six) 

1  cupful  sugar  ^4  teaspoonful  salt 

4  eggs  slightly  beaten  ^  cupful  Vittucci  Virgin 

Grated  rind  of  4  oranges  Olive  Oil 

1  cupful  orange  juice  1/4  cupful  flour  (unsifted) 

Juice  of  1  lemon  Sliced  oranges 

Mix  together  the  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  orange 
rind ;  add  the  eggs,  then  the  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil  and  orange  juice.  Cook  until  very  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  Serve  very  cold,  poured  over  sliced 
oranges. 


LEMON  BUTTER   (Very  Fine) 

RECIPE   NO.   108 


1^  cupful    Vittucci    Virgin 

4  lemons,  juice  and  grated 

Olive  Oil 

rind 

1^  cupfuls  sugar 

1   rounding  tablespoonful 

6  well  beaten  eggs 

butter 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating.  Mix  all  to- 
gether with  exception  of  the  butter  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Just  before 
removing  from  the  fire,  add  butter. 

To  be  served  cold,  either  on  tarts  or  as  a  jelly. 
Excellent  to  spread  on  bread  for  children. 

Those  who  do  not  care  for  the  flavor  of  oil,  can 
obtain  the  nourishment  without  the  flavor  in  this 
Lemon  Butter,  as  the  flavor  of  the  oil  is  not  noticeable. 

50 


LEMON   PUDDING   SAUCE    (Excellent) 

RECIPE   NO.   109 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 
1   cupful  sugar  lemon 

14  teaspoonful  salt  2  tablespoonfuls  Vittucci 

1  egg  yolk  slightly  beaten  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

1  cupful  cold  water 

Mix  together  the  cornstarch,  sugar,  salt  and 
lemon  rind.  Add  the  slightly  beaten  egg  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  oil.  Stir 
well  and  add  the  water.  Boil,  stirring  constantly,  until 
it  thickens. 


51 


Sandwiches 


SANDWICH  MAKING 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  not  less  than  two 
days  old,  and  each  slice  should  be  spread  before  re- 
moving from  the  loaf.  There  will  be  no  danger  of 
crumbling  and  breaking  if  spread  with  Salad  Dress- 
ing instead  of  butter. 

A  lettuce  leaf  laid  between  all  sandwiches  is  not 
only  a  pleasing  addition,  but  will  keep  the  sandwiches 
fresh  longer.    It  should  be  wiped  carefully,  however. 

Unless  the  sandwiches  are  to  be  used  at  once,  they 
should  be  wrapped,  each  variety  separately,  in 
paraffine  paper. 

Any  kind  of  meat  can  be  made  into  dainty  sand- 
wiches if  all  fat  and  gristle  be  removed,  the  meat 
minced  fine  and  mixed  with  Mayonnaise  or  Boiled 
Salad  Dressing. 

Any  left-over  vegetable,  if  carefully  drained  of 
all  juice,  and  then  allowed  to  marinate  (stand  in 
French  Dressing)  an  hour,  will  make  excellent 
sandwiches. 

One  of  the  most  delicious  of  all  sandwiches  is 
that  made  from  our  Lemon  Butter  recipe. 


BEET  SALAD  SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.   110 

Chop  cold  boiled  beets  fine  and  let  stand  an  hour 
in  a  little  French  Dressing.  Drain.  Mix  with  them 
some  chopped  pickle  and  very  little  minced  onion. 
Spread  both  slices  of  bread  with  Mayonnaise  instead 
of  butter  and  put  this  filling  between. 

62 


CLUB   SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.   Ill 

Spread  three  slices  of  hot  toast  with  Map  of 
Italy  Mayonnaise.  Lay  on  one  slice  a  piece  of  lettuce 
and  cover  with  hot  broiled  bacon.  Then  cover  with 
another  slice  of  toast  (Mayonnaise  side  up)  and  on 
this  put  slices  of  cold  turkey  or  chicken  seasoned,  and, 
if  liked,  a  little  thinly  sliced  pickle.  Cover  with  the 
third  piece  of  toast.  Press  together  slightly  and  put 
each  sandwich,  as  soon  as  made,  in  a  hot  pan  with  a 
tight  cover,  as  they  cool  quickly. 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.   112 

Slice  cucumbers  thin  and  let  stand  in  French 
Dressing  half  an  hour  or  more.  Drain  and  put  between 
slices  of  bread  spread  with  Mayonnaise,  with  a  leaf  of 
lettuce  between. 

FIG  SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.   113 

Stew  %  pound  figs,  1  tablespoonful  sugar  and 
%  cupful  water  until  very  soft.  Mash  to  a  paste  and 
cool.  Mix  with  1  cupful  chopped  nuts,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  lemon  juice  and  spread  between  slices  of 
bread  spread  with  Mayonnaise  or  Boiled  Salad 
Dressing. 

RAISIN   SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.   114 

Put  seedless  raisins  and  half  the  quantity  of  nut 
meats  through  the  food  chopper.  To  1  cupful  of 
raisins  allow  1  tablespoonful  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil  and  ^2  teaspoonful  lemon  juice.  Add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  either  Mayonnaise  or  Boiled  Salad 
Dressing,  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread. 

53 


CUCUMBER  AND  ONION  SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.    115 

Pare  cucumbers  and  mince  fine  with  about  equal 
quantity  of  onion.  Mix  with  Maj^onnaise  or  Boiled 
Salad  Dressing,  add  bits  of  shredded  lettuce  and 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

FISH    SANDWICHES 

RECIPE    NO.   116 

Cold  cooked  fish,  hard  boiled  eggs  and  sweet 
gherkins.  Remove  the  bones  and  skin  of  fish  and 
mash  with  a  fork.  Mash  the  egg  and  mix,  then  add 
the  chopped  sweet  gherkin.  Mix  all  with  Mayonnaise 
or  Boiled  Salad  Dressing  and  spread. 

LEMON   BUTTER   SANDWICHES 

RECIPE    NO.    117 

Spread  slices  of  bread  generously  with  Lemon 
Butter  (Recipe  No.  108) .  This  makes  nourishing  and 
delicious  sandwiches  and  is  especially  desirable  for 
children's  luncheons. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES 

RECIPE    NO.    118 

Boil  any  lean  part  of  pork  or  veal  until  tender 
and  when  cold  put  through  the  meat  chopper.  Mix 
with  a  little  hard  boiled  egg  (or  the  egg  may  be 
omitted)  and  with  Boiled  Salad  Dressing  or  Mayon- 
naise. Spread  between  slices  of  bread  with  a  lettuce 
leaf  between. 

SALMON   SALAD  SANDWICHES 

RECIPE   NO.   119 

To  a  pound  can  of  salmon  allow  about  2  hard 
boiled  eggs,  1  medium  sized  sour  pickle,  3  or  4  lettuce 
leaves  and  1  medium  sized  cucumber. 

Remove  every  bone,  skin,  and  drain  off  oil.  Chop 
the  eggs,  pickle  and  cucumber,  shred  the  lettuce  and 
mix  all  together  with  Boiled  Salad  Dressing.  Spread 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

54 


Pickles  and  Relishes 


INDIA  RELISH 

RECIPE  NO.    130 
2  large  or  3  small  heads  1   dozen  large  onions 

cabbage  8  green  Bell  peppers 

8  pounds  green  tomatoes  6  red  Bell  peppers 

2  pounds  ripe  tomatoes 

Chop  all  fine.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  put  on 
the  stove  with  3  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  enough 
cider  vinegar  to  cover.  Boil  slowly  one  hour;  then 
add  1  cupful  horseradish  mixed  with  1  cupful  Vit- 
Tucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Pack  in  stone  crocks  or 
glass  jars  and  cover. 

CAULIFLOWER  PICKLES   OR 
CHOW  CHOW 

RECIPE    NO.   121 

3  large  heads  cauliflower  1   cupful  flour 

2     pounds  string  beans  ^  pound  box  dry  mustard 

2  quarts  small  onions  2  green  peppers 

5  quarts  vinegar  ^  teaspoon ful  cayenne 

1   quart  Vittucci  Virgin  %  ounce  tumeric 

Olive  Oil  %   cup  black  pepper 

5  cupfuls  sugar  Salt  to  taste 

5  eggs 

Five  heads  cauliflower  may  be  used,  omitting  the 
string  beans  if  preferred. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  and  beans  separately  in  boil- 
ing water  until  tender,  after  first  separating  the  flow- 
erettes  and  cutting  the  beans  in  thirds.  Mix  together 
the  dry  ingredients,  beat  the  eggs  and  add,  then  stir 
in  the  Olive  Oil.  Add  the  vinegar  and  boil  until  it 
thickens  and  is  smooth,  stirring  constantly.  Drain 
the  water  from  the  cauliflower  and  beans  and  add 
with  the  chopped  peppers  and  boil  five  minutes  longer. 
Pour  into  sterilized  crocks  or  jars  and  cover. 

55 


BEET  RELISH 

RECIPE    NO.   122 
1  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped         1  tablespoonful  or  more  salt 

fine  1  teaspoonful  pepper 

1   quart  boiled  beets  chopped        1   cupful  grated  horseradish 
fine 

Mix  together  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar  and 
ViTTUcci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  in  the  proportion  of  1/4 
of  the  oil  to  %  vinegar. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

recipe  no.   123 

1  quart  small  cucumbers  6  large  cucumbers  peeled 

1  quart  small  onions  and  sliced 

2  large  cauliflower  1   red  pepper 

1  quart  celery  2  green  peppers 
iy2  quarts  string  beans 

Separate  the  flowerettes  of  the  cauliflower, 
cut  the  celery  into  l/o  inch  lengths,  string  the  beans 
and  cut  into  thirds  and  chop  the  peppers  coarsely. 
Mix  all  together,  cover  with  salted  water  (1  cupful 
of  salt  to  1  gallon  cold  water),  let  stand  24  hours, 
then  scald.  Drain  off  the  water  and  pack  the  pickles 
into  jars  or  crocks  and  pour  over  them  the  following 
paste : 

1^  cupfuls  ViTTUcci  Virgin  3  tablespoon fuls  celery  seed 

Olive  Oil  2  cupfuls  granulated  sugar 

3  quarts  cider  vinegar  II/4  cupfuls  flour 

y2  cupful  dry  mustard  Additional  salt  to  taste 

2  tablespoonfuls  tumeric 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients;  stir  in  the  oil,  then  the 
vinegar.     Boil,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens. 

PICKLED   NASTURTIUM   SEEDS 

RECIPE   NO.   124 

As  seeds  are  gathered,  wash  and  drain  and  put 
into  enough  cold  vinegar  (to  which  should  be  added 
1  teaspoonful  salt  to  each  pint  of  vinegar)  to  well 
cover.    Add  seeds  as  gathered  from  time  to  time. 

56 


When  all  are  gathered,  drain  off  this  vinegar.  Pour 
over  the  seeds  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil,  allowing 
about  1/4  cupful  of  oil  to  each  cupful  seeds.  Take 
fresh  vinegar,  enough  to  cover,  add  to  it  the  same  pro- 
portion of  salt  and  heat  to  boiling.  Pour  over  the 
seeds  and  oil  and  bottle  while  hot. 

PICKLED  ONIONS 

recipe   no.   125 

Peel  small  onions  and  put  in  a  large  jar.  Make 
a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  adding  salt  until  strong 
enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Heat,  and  when  boiling, 
pour  over  the  onions.  Let  stand  three  days.  Drain 
in  a  colander  and  let  the  cold  water  run  over  them. 
Take  enough  vinegar  and  water  (half  each)  to  cover 
the  onions  and  boil  them  five  minutes,  then  let  stand 
till  the  next  day.  Drain  again,  pouring  off  all  the 
vinegar.  Stuff  one  large  onion  full  of  cloves  and  put 
in  the  center.  Take  enough  fresh  vinegar  and  Vit- 
tucci Virgin  Olive  Oil  (using  1  cupful  Vittucci 
Virgin  Olive  Oil  to  each  quart  of  vinegar)  to  cover 
and  to  each  quart  of  the  liquid  add  12  pepper  corns. 
Pour  over  the  onions  and  cover. 

PEPPER  HASH 

recipe   no.   126 

2  medium  sized  heads  cabbage        1  ounce  each  celery  seed, 

12  small  dry  onions  white  and  black  mustard 

3  green  peppers  seed 

2  red  peppers  2  cupfuls  Vittucci  Virgin 

8  bunches  celery  Olive  Oil 

1  tablespoonful  whole  cloves  Cold  vinegar  (about  ll^ 

quarts 

Chop  cabbage  fine  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt. 
Let  stand  an  hour  or  more  then  drain  off  water  and 
mix  with  rest  of  chopped  ingredients  and  the  spices. 
Cover  with  the  cold  vinegar  and  olive  oil.  Stir  all 
well  and  put  in  a  stone  crock.  Keep  covered.  Always 
stir  before  taking  any  out  to  serve. 

57 


VITTUCCI   OIL  PICKLES 

RECIPE  NO.   127 

200  small  whole  cucumbers,  or  2  tablespoon fuls  juniper 

150  medium  sliced  cucumbers  berries 

3  pounds  granulated  sugar  5  green  bell  peppers 

2  ounces  celery  seed  chopped 

3  tablespoonfuls   white  2  cupfuls  white  onions 

mustard  (small) 

3  tablespoonfuls  black  1   quart  Vittucci  Virgin 

pepper  Olive  Oil 

Vinegar 

Let  cucumbers  stand  over  night  in  water  to  which 
is  added  enough  salt  to  bear  up  an  egg.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain.  Heat  enough  fresh  vinegar  to  cover  the 
pickles  and  scald  them  but  do  not  boil.  Drain  off  this 
vinegar.  Put  the  pickles  in  a  stone  crock  together 
with  the  chopped  peppers  and  small  onions.  Mix  the 
Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  with  the  mustard  and 
pepper,  then  pour  over  the  pickles  and  add  the  celery 
seed  and  juniper  berries.  Take  enough  fresh  vinegar 
to  cover,  add  the  sugar  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then 
pour  over.  INIix  all  well.  Cut  up  fine  pieces  of  horse- 
radish root  and  add  to  each  jar  of  pickles.  Cover  with 
young  horseradish  leaves. 


I  f 


58 


Medicinal  Helps 


FOR  BRONCHIAL   COLDS   OR 
SORE   THROAT 

RECIPE   NO.   128 

Mix  y^  ViTTucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil  with  3/3 
Turpentine.  Shake  well.  Rub  well  into  the  chest  or 
throat  and  cover  with  a  piece  of  flannel  saturated  in 
the  mixture. 

FOR  A  FINE,  SOFT  COMPLEXION 

Take  internally  by  using  generously  in  foods,  or 
take  one  dessert  spoonful  before  each  meal. 

FOR  APPENDICITIS,  INDIGESTION,  ETC. 

For  the  prevention  and  cure  of  appendicitis,  indi- 
gestion, constipation,  piles,  and  gall  stones,  many 
physicians  recommend  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil. 

SHAVING 

For  use  after  shaving,  Vittucci  Virgin  Olive 
Oil  will  be  found  excellent. 


I  I 


59 


Miscellaneous 


SALTED   ALMONDS 

RECIPE   NO.   129 

Blanch  almonds  by  allowing  to  stand  a  few  min- 
utes in  boiling  water,  then  break  the  skin  at  the  point 
and  slip  out. 

To  one  cupful  of  nuts  allow  2  tablespoonfuls 
ViTTucci  Virgin  Olive  Oil.  Heat  the  oil  in  a  frying 
pan  and  stir  in  the  nuts.  Stir  constantly  until  light 
brown.  Put  in  a  sieve,  shake  off  the  superfluous  oil, 
sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  cool. 

SALTED    PEANUTS 

Remove  the  brown  skin,  then  prepare  in  the  oil 
as  above. 

FURNITURE   AND  FLOOR  POLISH 

RECIPE   NO.   130 

1  cupful  ViTTUcci  Virgin  1   cupful  turpentine 

Olive  Oil  1   cupful  vinegar 

Put  all  in  a  large  bottle  and  shake  vigorously. 
Moisten  a  cheese  cloth  evenly  and  wring  out  as  dry 
as  possible.  Hang  in  the  wind  a  few  minutes,  then  use. 


T         T 


60 


INDEX 


MEASUREMENTS 
ARE  ALL   LEVEL 


Page  No. 

CAKES,  PIES 
AND  FILLINGS 

Chocolate  Cake  Filling....47 

Chocolate    Eclairs 45 

Filling  for  Lemon  Pie.. ..48 

Lemon  Cake  Filling 47 

Philadelphia  Cream  Pie. .46 

Pineapple  Fritters 47 

White  Layer  Cake 45 

DOUGHNUTS, 
BISCUITS  AND 
SHORTCAKE 

Bread  8 

Can't  Fail  Doughnuts 

(Sweet  Milk)  7 

Can't  Fail  Doughnuts 

(Sour  Milk)  7 

Short  Cake 8 

Tea  Biscuit  (Baking 

Powder)  8 

EGGS,  OMELETS 
AND  CHEESE 
DISHES 

Baked  Eggs  with  Cheese.  11 

Clam  Omelet 9 

Italienne  Scrambled  Eggs  9 

Plain  Omelet  9 

Spanish  Omelet  10 

Welsh  Rarebit  10 

FISH 

Baked  Fish  No.  1 12 

Baked  Fish  No.  2 12 


Page  No. 

Broiled  Fish 13 

Codfish  Balls  13 

Fish  Croquettes  14 

French  Halibut  Steaks... 14 

Fried  Fish  Roe 15 

Fried  Trout  16 

Fish  Turbot  No.  2 16 

Oyster,  Clam  and  Crab 

Cocktail    12 

Salmon  Turbot 16 

Salmon  Loaf  17 

Steamed  Fish  15 

Supreme  Boiled  Salmon 

Steaks  13 

with  Fish  Cream  Sauce...  14 

MEATS 

General   Directions 6 

General  Directions  for 
Roasts,  Chops  and  Stews  18 

Beef  Loaf 19 

Braised  Hamburger 

Steak  19 

Breaded  Round  Steak 18 

Cannelon  of  Beef  and 

Rice  20 

Economical  Beef  Loaf, 
with  Rice  a  ritalienne.l9 

French  Roast  Beef 18 

Hamburg  Steak  Balls 21 

Round  Steak  en  Cas- 
serole   20 

Stuffed  Pork  Tenderloin.21 

Veal  and  Beef  Loaf 20 

Veal  Patties  21 


61 


Page  No. 

MEDICINAL 
HELPS 

For  Bronchial  Colds, 

Sore  Throat,  etc 59 

For  a  Fine  Soft  Com- 
plexion   59 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Furniture  and  Floor 

Polish  60 

Salted  Almonds  60 

Salted  Peanuts 60 

POULTRY 

General  Directions  for 

Preparing   23 

Creamed  Chicken  23 

Creamed  Chicken  and 

Celery   24 

Fish  or  Poultry  Dressing.26 

Fried  Chicken 24. 

Imperial  Chicken 25 

Oyster  Dressing  for 

'Poultry  26 

Roast  Fowl  23 

Smothered  Chicken  24 

PICKLES  AND 
RELISHES 

Beet  Relish  56 

Cauliflower  Pickles  or 

Chow  Chow  65 

India  Relish  55 

Mustard  Pickles  56 

Pepper  Hash  57 

Pickled  Nasturtium 

Seeds  56 

Pickled  Onions  57 

ViTTUCci  Oil  Pickles 58 

PUDDING  AND 
PUDDING  SAUCES 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange..49 


Page  No. 

Lemon  Pudding 49 

Peach  Pudding  with 

Whipped  Cream  49 

Orange  Custard 50 

Lemon  Butter  50 

Lemon  Pudding  Sauce... .51 

SALADS 

Salad  Making  35 

Apple  Salad 36 

Asparagus  Salad  36 

Banana  Salad  37 

Beet  Salad  with  Peas 36 

Cabbage  Salad 37 

Carrot  Salad  37 

Cheese  and  Pimento 

Salad  37 

Cherry  Salad  37 

Cottage  Cheese  Salad 38 

Cucumber  Salad  38 

Fruit  Salad  with 

Mayonnaise   38 

Lobsters  or  Shrimps  with 

Celery   38 

Mock  Chicken  Salad 38 

Novelty  Salad  39 

Pineapple  Salad  No.  1....39 
Pineapple  Salad  No.  2....39 

Spinach  Salad  No.  1 39 

Spinach  Salad  No.  2 40 

Salmon  Salad 40 

Tomato  and  Cucumber 

Salad  40 

Vegetable  Salad 40 

SALAD 
DRESSINGS 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 
(Sweet  Milk)  -...41 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 
(Sour  Milk)  41 

Eggless  Mayonnaise  43 

French  Dressing  (with 
Tomato  Catsup) 42 


69 


Page  No. 

Fruit  French  Dressing.. ..42 

Map  of  Italy  Mayon- 
naise   44 

Plain  French  Dressing.. ..42 

Perfection  French 

Dressing   42 

Vittucci  Mayonnaise 43 

SANDWICHES 

Sandwich  Making  62 

Beet  Salad  Sandwiches... 52 

Club  Sandwiches  63 

Cucumber  Sandwiches 63 

Cucumber  and  Onion 

Sandwiches  64 

Fig  Sandwiches  63 

Fish  Sandwiches  64 

Lemon  Butter  Sand- 
wiches     64 

Map  of  Italy  Mayon- 
naise   44 

Mock  Chicken  Sand- 
wiches     54 

Raisin  Sandwiches 53 

Salmon  Salad  Sand- 
wiches     54 


Page  No. 

SAUCES 

Anchovy  Sauce  for  Mac- 
aroni or  Spaghetti 32 

Bechamel  Sauce 32 

Cheese  Sauce  32 

Mint  Sauce 33 

Parsley  Sauce  34 

Tartare  Sauce  No.  1 33 

Tartare  Sauce  No.  2 33 

Tartare  Sauce  No.  3 33 

Tomato  Sauce  34 

Tomato  Sauce  No.  2 34 

VEGETABLES 

Corn  Fritters  28 

Escalloped  Onions  28 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 29 

French  Baked  Cabbage.. .27 
French  Fried  Potatoes. ...29 

Fried  Tomatoes  30 

Fried  Tomatoes  No.  2 30 

Italienne  Macaroni  27 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes  29 

Rice  a  I'ltalienne 31 

Stuflfed  Green  Peppers... .31 

Stuffed  Onions  28 

Stuffed  Tomatoes  No.  1..30 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  No.  2. .31 


T       T 


(i3 


Memoranda 


64 


YOUR  copy  of  the  Can't  Fail  Cook 
Book  can  be  secured  from  your 
grocer  with  the  purchase  of  a  pint  tin  of 
ViTTucci  Virgin  Oliae  Oii,.  Because 
of  the  expense  of  preparing  this  book  it 
is  desired  to  hniit  this  free  offer  to  one 
copy  to  a  family.  Additional  copies  for 
yourself  or  your  friends  will  be  mailed  on 
receipt  of  fifty  cents  in  stamps  and  the 
name  of  vour  g-rocer. 


)-> 


John  Vittucci  Company 

919  Western  Avenue 

Seattle,  Wash. 


The  IzzarJ  Company,  Seattle 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  481  332  7 


