Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


«fWCE£. 

J ■ MAh  #i! 

EX;^ERlM£ICr  mMpilNMI  EXTERtMERT  tUT^ 


BULLETIN  NO.  3l 


MAY.  1917 


/tO' 


^V 


,5?> 


EXPERIMENT  STATION 

TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL  INSTITUTE 
TUSKEGEE  INSTITUTE,  ALABAMA 


B 


HOWTO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 

AND  105  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR 
HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


SECOND  EDITION 


BY 

G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  AGR. 

DIRECTOR 


PRINTED  BY  TUSKEGEE  STUDENTS  FROM  FUNDS  SUPPLIED  BY  THE  ASH  FUND 
ESTABLISHEDJNiMEMORY  OF  MRS.  ELLEN  L.  ASH 


FOREWORD 


In  the  preparation  of  this  bulletin  I wish  to  gratefully  acknowledge 
assistance  from  the  following  sources,  regretting  that  no  credit  can 
bei  given  quite  a number,  as  the  information  was  obtained  from  clip- 
pings without  the  author’s  name: 

Several  Bulletins  from  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture, 

The  Rural  World, 

The  Rural  New  Yorker, 

The  Southern  Ruralist, 

Farm  and  Fireside, 

The!  Country  Gentleman, 

The  Kansas  Farmer, 

The  Hearthstone, 

Peerless  Cook  Book, 

Home  Cooking 
Common- Sense  Recipes, 

Royal  Baker  and  Pastry  Book, 

The  American  Agriculturist, 

The  Tribune  Farmer, 

The  Montgomery  Advertiser, 

The  Farm  and  Home, 

Berry’s  Fruit  Recipes, 

Wallaces’  Farmer, 

Leaflets  from  the  West  Virginia  University, 

The!  Rumford  Book, 

Bulletins  from  the  University  of  Nebraska, 

Several  Leaflets  from  Cornell  University. 

Good  Housekeeping. 

NOTE — Always  remove  the  brown  hull  from  the  peanuts  even 
though  the  recipe  does  not  say  so. 


BULLETIN  NO.  32 


HAY,  1917 


How  to  Grow  the  Peanut  and  103  Ways  of  Pre- 
paring It  for  Human  Consumption 

Of  Jtll  the  money  crops  grown  by  Macon  County  farmers,  perhaps 
there  are  none  more  promising  than  the  peanut  in  its  several  va- 
rieties and  their  almost  limitless  possibilities. 

Of  the  many  good  things  in  their  favor,  the  following  stand  out 
as  most  prominent: 

1.  Like  all  other  ihembers  of  the  pod-bearing  family,  they  enrich 
the  soil. 

2.  They  are  easily  and  cheaply  grown. 

3.  For  man  the  nuts  possess  a wider  range  of  food  values  than  any 
other  legume. 

4.  The  nutritive  value  of  the  hay  as  a stock  food  compares  fav- 
orably with  that  of  the  cow  pea. 

5.  They  are  easy  to  plant,  easy  to  grow  and  easy  to  harvest. 

6.  The'  great  food-and-forage  value  of  the  peanut  will  increase 
in  prop  'rtion  to  the  rapidity  with  which  we  make  it  a real  study. 
This  will  increase  consumption,  and  therefore,  must  increase  pro- 
duction. 

7.  In  this  country  two  crops  per  year  of  the  Spanish  variety  can 
be  raise'd, 

8.  The  peanut  exerts  a dietetic  or  a medicinal  effect  upon  the  human 
system  that  is  very  desirable. 

9.  I doubt  if  there  is  another  foodstuff  that  can  be  so  universally 
eaten,  in  some  form  by  every  individual. 

10.  Pork  fattened  from  peanuts  and  hardened  off  with  a little'  corn 
just  before  killing,  is  almost  if  not  quite  equal  to  the  famous  Redgravy 
hams  or  the  world  renowned  Beech-nut  breiakfast  bacon. 

11.  The  nuts  yield  a high  percentage  of  oil  of  superior  quality. 

12.  The  clean  cake,  after  the  oil  has  been  removed,  is  very  high  in* 
muscle-building  properties  (protein),  and  the  ease  with  which  the 
meal  blends  in  with  flour,  meal,  etc.,  makes  it  of  especial  value  to 
bakers,  confectioners,  candy-makers,  and  ice  cream  factories. 

13.  Peanut  oil  is  one  of  the  best  known  vegetable  oils. 

14.  A pound  of  peanuts  contains  a little  more  of  the  body-buildin,g 
nutrients  than  a pound  of  sirloin  steak,  while  the  heat  and  energy- 
producing  nutrients  it  has  more  than  twice  as  much, 

(3) 


4 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


VARIETIES 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  peanut,  all  possessing  more  or 
less  merit.  A number  have  been  tested  here  on  our  Station  grounds, 
and  we  can  heartily  recommend  the  following  varieties  in  the  order 
named:  t [ 

1st,  The  Spanish. — As  compared  with  most  other  varieties  the 
vines  are  small,  upright  in  growth,  with  nearly  all  the  pods  clinging 
close  to  the  tap-root;  hence,  they  can  be  planted  closer  together  and 
the  yield  be  larger. 

This  variety  produced  59  bushels  per  acre  on  very  light,  sandy 
soil.  ' 5 

2nd,  The  Georgia  Red  and  Tennessee  Red. — These  are  practically 
one  and  the  same  variety — ^habit  of  growth  and  fruiting  qualities 
much  the  same  as  the  Spanish — with  us  it  made  a sightly  lower  yield. 

This  variety  has  from  three  to  four  kernels  to  the  pod.  The  nuts 
are  rich  in  flavor. 

3rd,  The  Virginia  Running  Variety^. — This  variety  is  often  re- 
ferred to  as  the  typical  American  peanut.  It  is  decidedly  the  most 
popular  with  the  trade.  The  pods  are  large  and  white,  the  vines 
spreading,  and  under  favorable  conditions  it  fruits  nearly  out  to  the 
ends  of  the  branches. 

SOIL 

With  reference  to  soil  there  are  two  things  to  bear  in  mind;  viz., 
whether  they  are  for  market  or  home  consumption. 

The  trade  demands  a light-colored  shell,  which  is  only  produced 
on  light,  sandy,  porous  soil. 

More  bushels  per  acre  can  be  grown  on  stiff,  clayey  soil  than  up- 
on light  soil,  but  the  pods  will  be  stained  dark.  In  fact,  any  land  that 
will  produce  good  com  will  produce  good  peanuts  provided  there  is 
plenty  of  lime  in  it. 

PREPARATION 

In  the  preparation  of  the  soil  the  chief  essentials  are — 

1.  Deep  plowing,  from  8 to  9 inches. 

2.  Thorough  pulverization  with  a harrow,  drag,  smoothing  board, 
etc. 

3.  Remove  all  stones,  roots,  stumps,  clods,  and  obstructions  of  all 
kinds. 

FERTILIZERS  FOR  PEANUTS 

The  peanut  is  an  interesting  plant,  in  that  it  adjusts  itself  to  many 
kinds  and  methods  of  fertilization.  It  does  well  fertilized  exactly 
as  for  corn;  makes  a splendid  yield  when  given  the  same  treatment 
as  cow  peas;  does  equally  well  when  fertilized  the*  same  as  for  cotton. 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


5 


For  the  sandy  soils  of  Macon  County  we  found  the  following  com- 
post mixture  most  satisfactory: 

In  the  fall  and  winter  a large  pen  was  filled  with  leaves — ^muck 
from  the  swamp — and  farmyard  manure.  The  mixture  consisted  of 
one  load  of  leaves  from  the  woods  together  with  the  rich  top  earth, 
one  load  of  muck  from  the  swamp,  and  one  load  of  manure  from  the 
bams,  pig-pen,  poultry  house,  etc.  The  pen  was  filled  in  this  way, 
a rough  shed  put  over  it  to  throw  off  the  excess  of  water,  so  the 
fertility  would  not  be  washed  out.  Eighteen  tons  of  this  mixture,  to- 
gether with  100  lbs.  acid  phosphate,  50  lbs.  kainit,  and  200  lbs.  lime, 
were  applied  to  the  acre. 

Where  one  must  depend  upon  a commercial  mixture  the  onef  given 
below  gave  decidedly  the  largest  yield: 

Acid  phosphate  55  lbs. 

Cotton-seed  meal  125  „ 

Kainit  100  „ 

Barnyard  manure  3 tons 

Agricultural  lime  200  lbs. 

Note. — On  soils  containin,g  lime,  do  not  add  any  to  the  fertilizer 
mixture. 

PLANTING 


The  time  for  planting  the  peanut  in  this  locality  Is  practically  the 
samd  as  for  corn,  beginning  about  the  middle  of  March  when  not 
hulled,  and  the  first  of  April  when  shelled.  A good  plan  is  to  break 
the  shell  crosswise;  they  come  up  almost  as  quickly  as  when  shelled. 

If  the  Spanish  peanut  is  shelled  and  planted  early  in  April,  it  will 
mature  about  the  middle  of  July,  when  they  can  be  pulled,  the  ground 
prepared  again,  reseeded,  and  a se'cond  crop  produced. 

There  are  two  principal  methods  of  planting  the  peanut;  viz.,  in 
drills  and  checks.  The  drill  method  proved  most  desirable  with  us, 
giving  the  largest  yield. 

For  the  Spanish  we  placed  our  rows  from  2^/^  to  3 feet  apart;  for 
the  running  varieties,  from  3 to  3Y2  feet  apart.  Furrows  were  run 
as  nearly  4 inches  deep  as  possible,  the  compost  put  directly  into  the 
furrow,  and  the  nuts  planted  on  it. 

CULTIVATION 


If  the  land  has  been  well  prepared  as  above  directed  and  is  prac- 
tically free  from  weed  seeds,  the  cultivation  will  be  quite  simple. 
Cultivate  only  enough  to  keep  the'  ground  soft  and  mellow  and  free 
from  weeds. 

There  are  two  methods,  however,  of  cultivating  the  peanut;  viz., 
the  ridge  method,  and  the  flat  method.  We  tried  both,  and  the  flat 
method  gave  decidedly  the  best  results. 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


HARVESTING 

The  time  to  harvest  varies  with  the  date  of  planting  and  the  va- 
riety of  peanut.  Experienced  planters  prefer  to  get  their  crop  har- 
vested before  the  first  l^illing  frost,  because  it  not  only  injures  some 
of  the!  nuts,  but  greatly  damages  the  hay,  by  lo-werin,g  its  feeding 
value  and  causing  the  vines  to  drop  their  leaves. 

There  are  a number  of  special  plows  and  devices  made  to  render 
harvesting  of  the'  crop  as  easy  as  possible.  All  of  them  have  more 
or  less  merit.  The  small  farmer,  however,  can  use  to  good  advantage 
the  same  method  used  in  harvesting  the  sweet  potato;  viz.,  that 
of  plowing  a furrow  on  each  side  of  the  vines,  and  then  bursting  out 
the  middle  containing  vines,  which  can  be  picked  up  readily,  the 
earth  shaken  off  and  the  vines  wind-rowed,  loosely  piled,  or  treated 
in  any  way  desired.  An  old  and  favorite  way  is  to  plow  up  the  vines 
in  the  morning  of  a warm,  sunshiny  day,  allowing  them  to  dry  until 
late  in  the  afternoon,  when  they  are  gathered  up  and  stacked  around 
poles,  which  are  about  7 feet  high,  and  set  firmly  in  the  ground 
at  convenient  places  over  the  field. 

Logs  or  poles  should  be  laid  on  the  ground  around  the  center  pole, 
so  as  to  keep  the  vines  off  the  ground.  Stack  loosely  so  the  air  can 
pass  through  freely.  Care  should  be  taken  to  stack  the  vines  so  the 
peanuts  will  be  on  the  inside  next  the  pole. 

Cap  the  stacks  with  hay,  straw,  corn  stalks,  or  anything  that  will 
turn  the  wate*r.  If  the  weather  is  good  they  may  be  safely  picked,  in 
from  15  to  20  days  after  stacking. 

PICKING 

There  are  so  many  good  pickers  on  the  market  now,  together  with 
a great  many  simple  and  effective  home-made  de'vices,  that  I think 
any  further  mention  of  them  would  be  wholly  out  of  place. 

PREPARATION  FOR  MARKET 

Peanuts,  like  everything  e'lse,  sell  more  quickly  and  bring  a better 
price  if  the  nuts  are  uniform  in  size,  clean,  and  the  shells  of  a bright 
color.  If  washing  is  necessary,  it  should  be  done  on  a clear,  warm 
day,  and  they  should  be*  dried  quickly  in  the  sun. 

A large  number  of  the  pops  and  otherwise  faulty  nuts  can  be 
removed  by  winnowing  them  in  a good,  strong  wind,  like  peas.  They 
should  now  be  put  in  bags  holding  100  lbs.  each.  Put  away  in  a dry, 
well-ventilated  house  until  ready  to  sell.  The  pops  and  faulty  nuts 
can  be  fed  to  hogs. 

PEANUT  HAY 

Hay  made  from  peanut  vines,  like  all  our  cultivated  pod-bearing 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


7 


plants,  possesses  high  feeding  value.  The  following  table,  from  the 
best  known  authorities,  shows  it  as  compared  with  alfalfa,  cow-pea 
vines,  crimson  and  burr  clover  (air-dried  material) : 


Name 

Water 

Crude 

Ash 

Protein 

Muscle- 

builders 

Crude 

Fiber 

Carbohydrates 

Fat- 

Fats  Formers 

Peanut  . 

7.83% 

17.04% 

11.75% 

1 22.11% 

1.84% 

46.95% 

Alfalfa  , 

,.|  6.95% 

7.49% 

16.48% 

31.38% 

2.03% 

42.62% 

Cow-Pea 

Vines. . . 

■ 1 10.29% 

9.10% 

19.72% 

21.99% 

4.04% 

45.15% 

Crimson 

Clover. . . 

..|  9.6  % 

8.6  % 

15.2  % 

27.2  % 

2.8  % 

36.6  % 

Red  Clover 

.|  14.30% 

7.47% 

12.84% 

29.27% 

2.11% 

48.31% 

It  is  readily  seen  by  the  above  table  that  peanut  hay  compares  very 
favorably  with  the  much-prized  market  hays  of  superior  feeding 
value.  One  and  one-fourth  tons  of  cured  hay  was  produced  on  an  acre 
in  our  Station,  in  addition  to  the  59  bushels  of  nuts. 

AS  A FOOD  FOR  MAN 

By  reason  of  its  superior  food  value  the  peanut  has  become  almost 
a universal  diet  for  man,  and  when  we  learn  its  real  value,  I think 
I am  perfectly  safe  in  the  assertion  that  it  will  not  only  become  a 
prime  essential  in  every  well-balanced  dietary,  but  a real  necessity. 
Indeed,  I do  not  know  of  any  one  vegetable  that  has  such  a wide  range 
of  food  possibilities. 

Below  are  given  105  ways  of  prel)aring  the  peanut  for  human  con- 
sumption, with  the  hope  that  every  farmer  will  learn  to  appreciate 
them  and  raise  large  quantities  for  his  own  consumption;  and  also 
with  the  hope  that  the!  city  folk  will  find  the  diet  not  only  whole- 
some, satisfying,  healthful  and  appetizing,  but  very  economical. 
Fourteen  recipes  were  selected  from  this  number,  and  a five  course 
luncheon  served  to  ten  food  specialists;  and  each  one  without  excep- 
tion was  enthusiastic  over  it,  and  said  it  was  the  most  satisfying 
luncheon  he  or  she  had  ever  eaten. 

A glance!  at  the  table  below  is  sufficient  to  impress  anyone  most 
favorably  with  the  superior  value  of  the  peanut  as  a food: 


Protein  Carbohydrates 

Food  Water  (Muscle-builders)  (Fat-formers) 

Peanuts  9-2%  25.8%  63.0% 

Boston  Beans  12.6%  22.5%  59.6% 

Cow  Peas  13.0%  21.4%  60.8% 


No.  1— PEANUT  SOUP 

One  quart  milk,  2 tablespoonfuls  butter,  2 tablespoonfuls  flour, 
1 cup  peanuts. 

Coo'k  peanuts  until  soft;  remove  skins,  mash  or  grind  until  very 


8 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


fine;  let  milk  corned  to  a boil;  add  the  peanuts;  cook  20  minutes. 

Rub  flour  into  a smooth  paste  with  milk;  addl  butter  to  the  peanuts 
and  milk;  stir  in  flour;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  serve 
hot. 

No.  2,  PEANUT  SOUP  NUMBER  TWO 

Take  roasted  peanuts;  grind  or  mash  real  fine;  to  every  half  pint 
add  a quart  of  hot  milk,  half  a teaspoon  salt,  1 saltspoon  pepper,  1 
small  onion  minced  very  fine,  1 bay  leaf,  1 stalk  celery  chopped  very 
fine  or  a saltspoon  celery  seed.  Cook  for  15  minutes.  Great  care  must 
be  exercised  to  keep  it  from  burning. 

Moisten  1 tablespoon  of  corn  starch  in  a quarter  cup  of  cold  milk; 
add  to  the  soup;  stir  until  thick  and  smooth;  strain  through  a fine 
sieve,  and  serve  with  peanut  wafeirs. 

No.  3,  PEANUT  BISQUE 

To  3 cups  of  boiling  milk  add  half  teaspoon  chopped  onion,  a pinch 
of  salt  and  pepper;  rub  to  a smooth  paste  a tablespoon  of  flour  with 
water;  add  half  cup  of  peanut  butter;  stir  in  the  flour;  boil  3 minutes 
longer;  serve  with  peanut  wafers. 

No.  4,  PEANUT  SOUP  NUMBER  FOUR 

Boil  10  minutes  in  half  cup  of  water,  half  cup  chopped  celery, 
a tablespoon  of  chopped  onion,  the  same  amount  of  red  and  green 
peppers  mixed;  add  a cup  of  peanut  butter  and  3 cups  of  rich  milk 
to  which  has  been  added  1 tablespoon  of  flour;  add  1 teaspoon  of 
sugar;  boil  two  minutes  and  serve. 

No.  5,  CONSOMME  OF  PEANUTS 

Take  1 pint  of  shelled  peanuts;  boil  or  steam  until  the  skins  can 
be  removed;  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender  and  until  nearly  all  the 
water  boils  away;  add  1 quart  of  beef  stock,  a few  grains  of  cayenne, 
half  a teaspoon  salt;  let  boil  slowly  for  10  minutes;  serve  hot. 

No.  6,  PUREE  OF  PEANUTS 

1 pint  of  peanuts,  blanched  and  ground, 

1 pint  of  milk, 

V2  cup  cream, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 egg,  well  beaten. 

Let  the  milk  and  cream  come  to  a boil;  stir  in  all  the  other  ingre- 
dients; add  more  milk  if  too  thick;  salt  arid  pepper  to  taste;  serve 
at  once  with  peanut  wafers. 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION  9 

No.  7,  PUREE  OF  PEANUTS  NUMBER  TWjO  (EXTRA  FINE) 

Take  1 pint  of  peanuts;  roast  until  the  shells  rub  off  easily  (do  not 
brown) ; grind  very  fine;  add  a saltspoon  of  salt,  1 teaspoon  sugar; 
pour  on  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  thick  as  cream.  Set  in  double 
boiler  and  boil  from  8 to  10  hours;  set  away  and  allow  to  get 
thoroughly  cold;  turn  out.  Can  be  eaten  hot  or  cold.  When  sliced, 
rolled  in  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust  and  fried  a chicken  brown,  it 
makes  an  excellent  substitute  for  meat. 

A generous  layer  between  slices  of  bread  makes  an  excellent 
sandwich, 

NO.  8,  PEANUT  BREAD  NUMBER  ONE 

Into  any  good  biscuit  dough  work  in  a libeiral  supply  of  blanched 
and  ground  nuts;  roll  out  thin;  cut  in  small  discs,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven;  serve  hot. 

NO.  9,  PEANUT  BREAD  NUMBER  TWO 

Vz  cupful  sugar, 

2 teaspoons  baking  powder, 

Vz  cupful  blanched  and  chopped  nuts, 

Vz  cupful  sweet  milk, 

1 beat  in, 

2 cupfuls  sifted  flour. 

Mix  these  ingredie(nts;  make  into  small  loaves  or  biscuits;  let  rise 
for  one-half  hour;  bake  in  a slow  oven  until  done,  which  will  require 
about  50  minutes. 

No.  10,  ENGLISH  PEANUT  BREAD 

2 cups  liquid  yeast, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

2 tablespoons  sugar, 

1 teaspoon  of  salt. 

Flour  as  long  as  you  can  stir  it  with  a spoon;  beat  it  long  and  hard; 
let  it  stand  in  a warm  place  over  ni,ght;  in  the  morning  add  one  cup 
of  blanched  and  finely-chopped  peanuts;  add  flour  to  make  a soft 
dough;  let  it  stand  in  a warm  place  until  light;  bake  in  a moderate 
oven  one  hour. 

No.  11,  AUNT  NELLIE’S  PEANUT  BROWN  BREAD 

cups  white  flour, 

1%  cups  Graham  flour, 

2 teasiK)ons  baking  powder, 

Vz  cup  sweet  milk,  or  just  enough  to  make  a soft  dough, 

1 teiaspoon  salt, 

Vz  cup  blanched  and  ground  peanuts. 

Mix  well  together  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven. 


10 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


No.  12,  OATMEAL  PEANUT  BREAD  (DELICIOUS) 

2 cup  liquid  yeast, 

2 cups  rolled  oats, 

2 teaspoons  sugar, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 teaspoon  salt. 

Add  white  flour  as  long  as  you  can  stir  it;  beat  well;  let  rise  over 
night;  stir  up  well  in  the  morning;  add  one  cup  of  chopped  or  ground 
peanuts;  pour  into  buttered  baking-pan  and  set  in  a warm  place  to 
rise;  when  light  bake  in  a moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

No.  13,  PEANUT  BREAD  NUMBER  THREE 

A delicious  loaf  can  be  made  by  adding  half  a pint  of  finely-ground 
nuts  to  every  loaf  of  bread  when  baking.  Add  the  nuts  when  the 
bread  is  worked  down  the  last  time. 

No.  14,  PEANUT  ROLLS  NUMBER  ONE 

2 cups  of  soft,  white  bread  crumbs, 

4 tablespoons  peanut  butter, 

% cupful  grated  cocoanut,  chopped  fine, 

1 saltspoon  celery  seied, 

1 teaspoon  salt, 

1 well-beaten  egg, 

% pound  blanched  and  ground  peanuts. 

Mix  throughly;  make  into  rolls,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  or  bake  in 
an  oven;  serve  with  nut  sauce. 

No.  15,  PEANUT  ROLLS  NUMBER  TWO 

Make  the  dough  exactly  the  same  as  for  Parker  House  rolls.  At  the 
last  working  add  a heaping  teaspoon  of  ground  peanuts,  and  work 
into  each  roll. 

No.  16,  SWEDISH  NUT  ROLLS 

1 pint  milk,  scalded, 

% cup  butter, 

% cup  sugar, 

1 scanty  teaspoon  salt, 

2 eggs  (white), 

% cup  yeast,  7 or  8 cups  flour. 

Mix  early  in  the  morning  a sponge  with  milk,  sugar,  salt,  eggs, 
and  yeast,  using  flour  enough  to  make  a drop  batter.  Place  in  a pan 
of  warm  water,  and  when  light  add  the  butter  (softened)  and  enough 
more  flour  to  thicken  it.  Knead  well,  and  let  it  rise  again.  When 
light  roll  out  into  a large  triangular  piece  one-third  of  an  inch  thick. 


106  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


11 


Spread  all  ove^r  with  soft  butter  and  a sprinkling  of  sugar,  cinnamon, 
and  a generous  coating  of  finely-ground  peanuts.  Roll  over  and 
over;  cut  off  slices  an  inch  thick;  lay  them  on  a well-buttered  pan 
with  the  cut-side  down.  Let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  in  a moderate 
oven. 

No.  17,  PEANUT  COOKIES  NUMBER  ONE 

3 cups  flour, 

2 eggs, 

1 cup  sugar, 

IV2  cups  ground  peanuts, 

V2  cup  butter, 

1 cup  — sweet  milk, 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  well  beaten;  now  add  the  milk 
and  flour;  flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla;  add  the  peanuts  last;  drop  one 
spoonful  to  the  cooky  in  well-greased  pans;  bake  quickly. 

No.  18,  PEANUT  COOKIES  NUMBER  TWO^ 

4 teaspoons  butter, 

1 cup  sugar, 

2 eggs,  well-beaten, 

2 teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2 cups  flour, 

1 cup  ground  peanuts. 

Sweet  milk  sufficient  to  make  a stiff  batter.  Drop  on  well-greased 
tins  and  bake  quickly. 

No.  19,  PEANUT  COOKIES  NUMBER  THREE 
One-third  cup  butter, 

V2  cup  sugar, 

2 eggs  well  beatein, 

V2  cup  flour, 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1 cup  blanched  and  finely-chopped  peanuts, 

1 teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a stiff  batter.  Cream  the  butter,  and 
add  the  sugar  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
together.  Add  the  butter,  sugar,  eggs,  and  flour;  then  add  the  milk, 
nuts,  and  lemon  juice.  Drop  from  a spoon  on  an  unbuttered  baking 
jheet;  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts,  and  bake  in  a ve*ry  slow  oven. 

No.  20,  PEANUT  TEA  ROLLS  (DELICIOUS) 

2 cups  raised  sponge, 

1 cup  sugar, 

V2  cup  butter, 

1 cup  ground  peanuts. 

Take  two  cups  of  sponge,  the  sugar,  melted  butter,  eggs,  peanuts. 


12 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly;  knead  in  enough  flour  to  make 
dough  as  for  rolls.  Set  in  a warm  place  to  rise;  when  light  shape  into 
rolls;  let  rise  until  twice  their  size;  rub  melted  butter  over  the  top 
with  a small  paint  brush;  then  sift  sugar  and  ground  peanuts  over 
the  top. 

No.  21,  PEANUT  BARS 

2 cups  flour, 

1 cup  coiarsely-chopped  peanuts, 

% cup  sugar,  t 

2 tablespoons  butteir, 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder, 

% cup  milk, 

1 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  into  a bowl;  rub  in  the  butter, 
nuts,  and  sugar;  mix  to  a rather  stiff  dough  with  the  egg  and  milk; 
turn  on  to  a floured  board,  and  roll  out  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick; 
cut  into  bars  of  convenient  size,  and  fry  in  the  fat  until  golden 
brown. 

No.  22,  PEANUT  WAFERS  NUMBER  ONE 

2 cups  flour, 

1 cup  water, 

1 cup  sugar  (powdered), 

% cup  rolled  peanuts, 

H cup  butter. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light  and  creamy;  add  the 
flour  and  water  alternately.  Lastly  add  the  peanuts;  dirop  on  buttered 
tins,  and  bake  quickly.  Cut  in  squares  while  hot,  as  it  poon  gets 
brittle  after  cooling. 

No.  23,  PEANUT  WAFERS  NUMBER  TWO 
% cup  butter, 

1 cup  flour, 

1 cup  sugar, 

1 cup  blanched  nuts, 

1 egg. 

Grind  or  roll  the  nuts;  stir  into  the  butter;  drop  on  buttered  tins, 
and  bake  quickly. 

No.  24,  PEANUT  WAFERS  NUMBER  THREE 

3 tablespoons  flour, 

% teaspoon  baking  powdejr, 

2 well-beaten  eiggs, 

% lb.  brown  sugar, 

1 cupful  ground  peanuts. 

Mix  thoroughly;  drop  on  buttered  paper,  and  bake  slowly  to  a light 
brown.  ' j j 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


13 


No.  25,  PEANUT  MUFFINS  NUMBER  ONE 

% cupful  chopped  peanuts, 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light, 

% teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  tablespoon  of  watefr, 
pint  thick  sour  buttermilk, 

% teaspoon  salt, 

IV2  cupfuls  flour  or  enough  to  make  a stiff  batter. 

Add  soda  to  the  sour  milk;  stir  well;  make  the  batter  quickly;  when 
ready  to  drop  into  the  pans  add  peanuts;  bake  in  a quick  oven  from 
26  to  25  minutes. 

No.  26,  PEANUT  MUFFINS  NUMBER  TWO 

Use  the  above  recipe,  and  in  addition  add  Vz  cupful  of  cold,  cooked 
rice.  Chopped  figs,  dates,  etc.,  make  very  pleasing  variations. 

No.  27,  PEANUT  DOUUHNUTS  NUMBER  ONE 

2 e!ggs,  beaten  light, 

1 cup  sugar, 

3 tablespoons  melted  butter, 

1 cup  sour  mUk, 

4 cups  flour, 

^ teaspoon  soda,. 

1 saltspoon  salt, 

1 saltspoon  cinnamon, 

1 cup  finely-ground  or  chopped  peanuts. 

Into  the  well-beaten  eggs  stir  the  sugar,  butter,  milk,  and  nuts;  add 
flour  to  make  a dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out;  roll,  cut  out,  and 
fry  in  de'ep  fat  hot  enough  for  the  dough  to  rise  at  once. 

No.  28,  PEANUT  DOUGHNUTS  NUMBER  TWO 

1 pint  swetet  milk, 

1 cup  sugar, 

Vz  cup  butter  (softened). 

Two-thirds  cup  of  yeast, 

1 egg,  well  beaten, 

1 tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

5^  to  6 cups  flour, 

1 pint  chopped  peanuts. 

Mix  in  the  order  given;  rise  slowly  till  li,ght;  roll  out  and  cut  in 
shape;  rise  quickly  until  very  light,  then  fry  in  hot  fat. 


14 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


CAKES 

No.  29,  PEANUT  CAKE  NUMBER  ONE 

1/4  lb.  butter, 

2 cups  flour, 

4 eggs  (whites  only)  well  belaten, 

^ cup  water, 

1 cup  fin^y-ground  peanuts, 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a cream;  add  the  water  and  flour; 
stir  until  smooth;  add  half  the  well-befaten  whites,  then  the  nuts, 
then  the  remainder  of  the  whites  and  the  baking  powder;  pour  into 
square,  flat  pans  lined  with  greased  paper  to  the  depth  of  three 
inches,  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  for  45  or  50  minutes. 

No.  30,  PEANUT  CAKE  NUMBER  TWO 

9 ounces  flour, 

4 ounces  butter, 

4 ounces  chopped  peianuts, 

4 eggs, 

1 teaspoon  vanilla, 

1/4  teaspoon  salt, 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together;  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar;  add  the  vanilla,  chopped  nuts,  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  well 
beaten;  add  flour,  then  whipped  whites,  and  beat  well;  bake  in* 
shallow  pan  in  me'dium  oven;  when  cold,  ice  with  boiled  icing. 

No.  31,  PEANUT  ROLL  CAKE  WITH  JELLY 
4 eggs. 

Two-third  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Two-third  cup  flour, 

1/4  teaspoon  salt, 

V2  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  egg  yolks  and  sugar  until  light;  add  mixed  dry  ingredients, 
then  stiffly  beaten  whites;  mix  lightly  together.  Bake  in  thin  sheet 
in  a quick  oven.  As  soon  as  done  turn  quickly  on  a towel  wrung  out 
of  water;  spread  with  jelly;  sprinkle  liberally  with  coarsely-chopped 
peanuts;  roll  up  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


15 


No.  32,  PEANUT  LAYER  CAKE 

Make  cake  exactly  the  same  as  for  roll  cake,  except  bake  in  jelly- 
eake  tins.  Make  the  pastry  cream  as  follows; 

2 cups  sugar, 

1V2  pint  milk, 

3 tablespoons  corn  starch, 

1 tablespoon  butt^, 

2 teaspoons  extract  of  lemon, 

1 pint  coarsely-ground  peanuts. 

Add  peanuts  to  the  milk;  let  simmer  5 minutes;  with  sugar  add  the 
starch  dissolved  in  a little  cold  water;  as  soon  as  it  reboils  take*  from 
the  fire;  beat  in  the  yolks;  return  to  the  fire  two  or  three  minutes 
to  set  the  eggs;  when  cold  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake,  and 
finish  with  clear  icing  garnished  with  blanched  peanuts. 

No.  33,  METROPOLITAN  CAKE  WITH  PEANUTS 

1 cup  granulated  sugar, 

1Y2  cups  butter, 

V2  cup  milk, 

2V2  cups  well-sifted  flour, 

2 teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted  with  the  flour, 

1 cup  chopped  pe'anuts  and  citron  mixed, 

4 eggs  (whites). 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  flour  nuts  and  citron  before  adding; 
bake  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven;  flavor  icing  with  lemon  extract, 
and  garnish  top  with  split  peanuts  and  pe'can  meats. 

No.  34,  PEANUT  CAKE  WITH  MOLASSES 

2 cups  molasses, 

1 cup  brown  sugar, 

1 cup  lard, 

2 cups  hot  water, 

4 cups  flour, 

1 pint  ground  peanuts, 

2 teaspoons  cinnamon, 

V2  teaspoon  cloves, 

. V4,  of  a nutmeg,  grated, 

1 heaping  teaspoon  soda, 

1 egg. 

Mix  the  peanuts,  spices,  and  soda  with  the  flour;  heap  the  measure 
of  flour  slightly;  mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  lard,  and  water;  stir  in 


16 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


the  flour;  add  the  beaten  egg  last.  Bake  in  shallow  dripping-pan, 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  just  before  putting  in  the  oven. 

No.  86,  PEANUT  PUDDING 

1 cup  molassels, 

Vz  cup  butter, 

1 cup  hot  water, 

3 cups  flour, 

1 teaspoon  soda, 

V2  cup  coarsely-ground  peanuts, 

% teaspoon  ground  cloves. 

Mix,  and  steam  two  hours. 

Sauce  for  same: 

1 tablespoon  bjitter, 

Vz  cup  sugar, 

1 teaspoon  flour. 

Mix  all  to  a cream;  pour  over  this  enough  boiling  water  to  make 
it  like  cream;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

No.  36,  PEANUT  STRIPS  WITH  BANANAS 

2 cups  mashed  banana  pulp, 

1 cup  oat  flakes, 

1 cup  flour, 

1 cup  peanut  meal, 

1 cup  sugar, 

Vz  cup  butter  (softened). 

1 saltspoon  (or  more)  of  salt. 

Blend  all  together;  roll  out  ^/4  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  in  strips,  and 
bake  in  a quick  oven. 

MISCELLANEOUS  DISHES  FROM  PEANUTS 

No.  37,  LIVER  WITH  PEANUTS 

Boil  the  liver  from  two  fowl  or  a turkey;  when  tender  mash  them 
fine;  boil  one  pint  of  blanched  peanuts  until  soft;  mash  them  to  a 
smooth  paste;  mix,  and  rub  through  a puree-stainer;  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice;  moisten  with  melted  butter; 
spread  the  paste  on  bread  like  sandwiches,  or  add  enough  hot 
chicken  stock  to  make  a puree;  heat  again  and  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  lemon  juice. 

No.  38,  MOCK  CHICKEN 

Blanch  and  grind  a sufficient  number  of  peanuts  until  they  are 
quite  oily;  stir  in  one'  well-beaten  egg;  if  too  thin,  thicken  with  rolled 
bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust;  stir  in  little  salt.  Boil  some  sweet 
potatoes  until  done;  peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices;  spread  genea*ously 


106  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


17 


with  the  peanut  mixture;  dip  in  white  of  egg;  fry  to  a chicken 
brown;  serve  hot. 

No.  39,  MOCK  VEAL  CUTLETS 

Wash  one  cup  of  lentils,  and  soak  otver  night;  in  the  morning 
strain  and  parboil  in  fresh  boiling  water  for  30  minutes;  drain 
again  and  cook  until  soft  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to  co'ver  them; 
rub  through  a sieve,  and  to  the  puree  add  ^ cup  of  melted  butter, 
1 cup  of  fine  graham  bread  crumbs,  1 cup  of  strained  tomatoes  to 
which  a speck  of  soda  has  been  added,  1 cup  of  blanched  and  chopped 
peanuts,  1 tablespoon  each  of  grated  celery  and  minced  onion;  season 
with  % teaspoon  of  mixed  herbs,  salt,  and  pepper;  blend  all  thor- 
oughly together,  and  form  into  cutlets;  dip  these  in  egg  and  then 
in  fine  bread  crumbs;  place  in  a well-greased  baking  pan,  and  brown 
in  quick  oven;  arrange  around  a mound  of  well  seasoned  mashed 
potatoes  and  serve  with  brown  sauce. 

No.  40,  PEANUT  PATTIES 

1 pint  toasted  bread  crunibs  rolled  fine, 

1 pint  mashed  potatoes  (white  or  sweet), 

2 teaspoons  baking  powder  dissolved  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  mace;  heat  all  together;  form 

into  small  cakes;  dip  each  cake  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  then  into 
peanut  meal,  and  brown  lightly  in  a frying  pan  containing  a little 
pork  fat,  not  deep  fat;  turn  and  brown  on  both  sides. 

No.  41,  BROWN  SAUCE 

Mix  thoroughly  1 teaspoon  of  peanut  butter  and  2 tablespoons 
browned  flour  with  1 tablespoon  cream;  add  gradually  2 cups  hot 
milk,  and  stir  and  cook  until  the  mixture  thickens;  just  before  serv- 
ing add  4 tablespoons  strained  tomatoes,  and  a little  salt  and  pep- 
per. 

No.  42,  PEANUT  SAUSAGES 

Grind  V2  pound  of  roasted  peanuts,  V2  pound  pecans,  1 ounce 
hickory  nuts,  and  V2  pound  walnut  meats.  Mix  with  six  very  ripe 
bananas:  pack  in  a mould,  and  steam  continuously  for  two  hours; 
when  done  remove  lid  of  kettle  or  mould,  and  when  mixture  is  cold 
turn  out  and  serve  the  same  as  roast  meat  sliced  thin  for  sandwiches, 
or  with  cold  tomato  sauce  or  other  sauce. 

No.  43,  PEANUT  AND  CHEESE  ROAST 

1 cup  grated  cheese, 

1 cup  finely-ground  peanuts, 

1 cup  bread  crumbs. 


18 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


1 teaspoon  chopped  onion, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

Juice  of  half  a lemon, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter  and  a little  water  until  it  is  tender. 
Mix  the  other  ingredients,  and  moisten  with  water,  using  the  water 
in  which  the  onion  has  been  cooked.  Pour  into  a shallow  baking 
dish,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

No.  44,  PEANUT  OMELET 

Cream  a slice  of  bread  in  half  a cup  of  rich  milk;  beat  the  whites 
and  yolks  of  two  eggs  separately;  add  the  yolks  to  the  bread  crumbs 
and  milk;  to  half  a cup  of  finely-ground  peanuts  add  a dash  of 
pepper  and  salt;  mix  thoroughly;  fold  in  the  whites,  and  cook  as 
usual  in  a buttered  pan. 

No.  45,  BAKED  PEANUTS  WITH  RICE 

4 cups  milk, 

1-3  cup  rice, 

1 cup  coarsely-ground  peanuts, 

1-3  cup  sugar, 

1 tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

Vz  teaspoon  salt, 

Wash  rice,  putting  a layer  of  rice  and  a layer  of  peanuts  into 
a well-buttered  pudding-dish  until  all  is  used;  mix  the  salt  and 
sugar,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  it;  finish  with  a layer  of  peanuts 
on  top,  pour  on  the  milk,  if  it  does  not  cover  the  rice  put  in  sufficient 
water;  bake  three  hours  in  a very  slow  oven;  add  hot  water  if  it 
cooks  too  dry. 

No.  46,  PEANUT  MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

1 cup  broken  macaroni,  ' ■ 

2 quarts  boiling  salted  water, 

1 cup  rich  milk, 

2 tablespoons  flour, 

1/4  to  1/^  pound  cheese, 

Vz  teaspoon  salt, 

1 cup  coarsely  ground  peanuts, 

A dash  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Cook  macaroni  in  the  boiling  salted  water;  drain  in  a strainer, 
and  pour  cold  water  over  it  to  keep  the  pieces  from  sticking  togeth- 
er; mince  cheese,  and  mix  with  all  other  ingredients  except  the  mac- 
aroni; put  sauce  and  macaroni  in  alternate  layers  in  a well  but- 
tered baking  dish;  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  slowly 
until  crumbs  are  brown. 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


19 


No.  47,  PEANUT  PIE-CRUST 

Add  at  the  rate  of  1 tablespoon  of  finely-ground  peanuts  to  one  pie- 
crust. You  will  be  pleased  with  the  agreeable  change  in  pie-crusts 
or  any  other  pastry. 

No.  48,  PEANUT  BREAKFAST  CAKES 

Mash  2 cups  of  well-cooked,  split  peas  or  beans;  press  through  a 
sieve;  add  1 teaspoon  grated  celery,  1 teaspoon  minced  onion,  1 cup  of 
milk,  1 cup  softened  bread  crumbs,  1 tablespoon  butter,  1 cup  crushed 
peanuts,  1 well-beaten  egg;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  form  into 
small  flat  cakes,  and  brown  in  hot  fat;  place  a nicely  poached  egg 
on  each  cake;  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  hot  cream  or 
brown  sauce. 

No.  49,  PEANUTS  AND  MUSHROOMS 

Cook  2 tablespoons  of  chopped  onion  and  V2  cup  chopped  fresh 
mushrooms  in  4 tablespoons  of  butter  for  five  or  six  minutes;  stir 
in  2 tablespoons  flour,  a little  salt  and  pepper,  and  IV2  cups  milk; 
cook  and  stir  the  whole  for  five  minutes  longer;  then  add  1 cup  fine- 
ly-chopped peanuts;  re-heat,  and  boil  slowly  for  10  minutes;  serve 
on  squares  of  buttered  toast. 

No.  50,  PEANUT  TIMBALES 

V2  pint  of  peanuts  cooked  until  soft  in  salted  water;  drain  and 
mash, 

2 well-beaten  eggs  and  two  cups  thin  cream,  added  to  the  nuts, 

Vz  teaspoon  salt,  and  a dash  of  pepper. 

Turn  into  custard  cups;  put  the  cups  in  a basin;  surround  them 
with  boiling  water;  cover  the  tops  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
in  a moderate  oven  for  20  or  25  minutes;  then  unmould  and  serve 
with  a little  cream  sauce  poured  around  them. 

No.  51,  PEANUT  BUTTER 

Shell  the  peanuts;  roast  just  enough  so  that  the  hulls  will  slip  off 
easily;  remove  all  the  hulls  by  gently  rolling,  fanning,  and  screen- 
ing; grind  very  fine  in  any  sort  of  mill,  passing  through  several  times 
if  necessary;  pack  in  cans,  bottles,  or  jars,  and  seal  if  not  for  im- 
mediate use.  Some  manufacturers  add  a little  salt  and  a small  amount 
of  olive  oil;  others  do  not,  according  to  taste.  For  small  quantities  of 
butter  a good  meat-grinder  will  answer  the  purpose.  If  the  nuts  are 
ground  fine  enough  no  additional  oil  will  be  necessary. 

STUFFINGS 

No.  52,  PEANUT  STUFFING  NUMBER  ONE 

Crumble  a pint  of  corn  bread,  adding  to  it  a grated  rind  of  one 


20 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


lemon,  a cup  of  finely-chopped  peanuts,  two  tablespoons  of  mixed, 
dried  herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one-half  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Bacon  drippings  may  be  used  instead  of  butter. 

' No.  53,  PEANUT  STUFFING  NUMBER  TWO 

V2  pint  shelled  and  roasted  peanuts  (peanut  meal  can  be  used), 
4 drops  onion  juice, 

1 teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  slightly  moistened  with  cream, 

V2  teaspoon  powdered  herbs. 

Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

No.  54,  PEANUT  STUFFING  NUMBER  THREE 

2 cups  hot  mashed  potatoes, 

1 teaspoon  onion  juice  or  grated  onion, 

V2  cup  ground  peanuts  (peanut  meal  is  excellent), 

1/4  teaspoon  paprika, 

1 teaspoon  salt, 

4 tablespoons  thick  cream, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

2 eggs  (yolks). 

One  teaspoon  of  sweet  herbs  if  desired.  Blend  all  together,  and 
stuff  in  the  usual  way. 

No.  55,  PEANUT  MEAL  NUMBER  ONE 

Blanch  the  peanuts  and  grind  very  fine  but  not  sufficient  to  become 
too  oily.  This  meal  is  especially  fine  as  a substitute  in  making  almond 
macaroons  and  small  cakes,  to  which  it  imparts  the  desired  almond 
flavor,  and  is  much  cheaper  than  the  almond  meal. 

No.  56,  BROWN  PEANUT  MEAL 

Roast  the  peanuts  carefully  without  scorching;  when  a rich  light- 
brown  rub  off  the  hulls  and  grind  the  same  as  for  No.  49.  This  meal 
has  many  uses,  such  as  soups,  gravies,  cakes,  candies,  etc.,  etc. 

No.  57,  CREAM  PEANUTS 

1 pint  white  crowder  peas, 

1 cup  cream, 

1 pint  peanuts, 

1 teaspoon  sugar, 

% teaspoon  pepper, 

1 saltspoon  salt. 

Boil  the  peas  until  thoroughly  done;  pass  through  a colander;  grind 
or  crush  the  blanched  peanuts;  add  all  the  ingredients  except  the 
cream  and  nuts;  boil  thirty  minutes;  mix  the  cream  and  nuts  to- 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION  21 

gether  with  a tablespoon  of  flour;  mix  thoroughly;  stir  into  the 
boiling  peas;  boil  five  minute's;  whip  vigorously  until  light,  and  serve. 
If  one  spoonful  of  flour  is  not  sufficient  add  more. 

No.  68,  SALTED  PEANUTS 

Roast  the  peanuts;  shell,  and  remove  the  thin  hulls;  put  in  a pan; 
butter  slightly;  put  in  oven  and  heat  through;  spread  on  piece  of 
white  paper;  sprinkle  with  fine  salt,  and  serve. 

Note. — If  the  nuts  are  very  greasy  allow  them  to  drain  before 
applying  the  salt. 

No.  59,  PEANUT  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Roast  the  desired  number  of  peanuts;  rub  the  thin  hull  off  the 
nuts;  grind  or  rub  in  a mortar  until  quite  smooth  and  oily;  salt  to 
taste,  and  spread  a thin  layer  between  crackers,  lunch  biscuits,  rolls, 
or  bread  of  that  character.  If  the  butter  is  not  as  thin  as  you 
wish  add  a little  fresh  cow’s  butter,  a little  milk  or  water,  and  rub 
well.  This  butter  will  not  keep  as  well  as  when  the  milk  or  water 
is  left  out. 

SALADS 

No.  60,  PEANUT  SALAD  NUMBER  ONE 

1 small  cabba,ge, 

1 teaspoon  flour, 

2 teaspoons  salt, 

1 teaspoon  mustard, 

1 teaspoon  sugar, 

1 cup  vinegar, 

1 teaspoon  butter, 

V2  teaspoon  pepper, 

2 eggs, 

1 pint  peanuts. 

Chop  cabbage  and  peanuts  up  fine;  add  the  Salt  and  pepper; 
cream  the  butter,  mustard,  sugar,  and  flour  together;  stir  in  the 
vinegar;  cook  in  double  boiler  until  stiff;  add  yolks  of  the  eggs; 
pour  over  nuts  and  cabbage,  and  serve. 

No.  61,  PEANUT  SALAD  NUMBER  TWO 
^ 1 cup  roasted  peanuts, 

1 cup  sour  apples.  Chop  the  nuts  and  apples  together.  Make  a 
dressing  of 

V2  cup  water, 

V2  cup  sugar, 

2 tablespoons  butter. 


22 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


% cup  vinegar, 

1  tablespoon  flour, 

1 egg. 

Whip  all  together,  and  Jet  boil  long  enough  to  thicken;  then  pour 
over  salad;  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

No.  62,  PEANUT  SALAD  NUMBER  THREE 

Blanch  peanuts;  put  in  the  oven  and  brown  with  a bit  of  butter 
and  a sprinkle  of  salt;  when  cold  chop  coarsely.  To  each  cupful  of 
nuts  add  two  cups  of  finely-shredded  celery  and  an  equal  amount  of 
sour  apples;  mix  thoroughly;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

No.  63,  PEANUT  AND  DATE  SALAD 

2 cups  dates,  stoned  and  cut  into  small  pieces, 

V2  cups  coarsely-ground  peanuts, 

2 cups  celery,  finely  cut. 

Stir  well,  then  mix  with  cream  salad  dressing. 

No.  64,  PEANUT  SALAD  WITH  BANANAS 

Slice  bananas  through  center;  spread  out  on  lettuce  leaves,  and 
sprinkle  liberally  with  chopped  peanuts ; serve  with  mayonnaise  or 
plain  salad  dressing. 

ICE  CREAM 

No.  65,  PEANUT  ICE  CREAM  NUMBER  ONE 

1 pint  peanuts, 

2 quarts  milk, 

2 cups  sugar, 

1 pint  cream, 

3 eggs, 

2 teaspoons  vanilla. 

Roast,  shell,  and  roll  the  peanuts  until  they  are  quite  fine;  brown 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  add  to  the  milk;  next  add  remainder  of  sugar, 
the  cream,  vanilla,  and  lastly  the  peanuts;  freeze. 

No.  66,  PEANUT  CREAM  NUMBER  TWO 

Make!  a quart  of  lemon  or  vanilla  cream  by  the  usual  rule:  when 
this  is  half  frozen  take  out  the  dasher  and  add  ^ pound  of  peanut 
brittle,  or  two  or  three  bars  of  peanut  candy  previously  put  through 
the  meat  chopper.  The  result  is  a light-brown  cream  tasting  like 
caramel,  with  the  nuts  all  through  it.  It  may  be  served  in  glasses  or 
put  in  a brick. 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


23 


No.  67,  PEANUT  CREAM  (PROFESSIONAL  WAY) 

Take  21  pounds  of  18  per  cent  cream,  4 pounds  granulated  sugar, 
1 teaspoon  peanut  butter  dissolved  in  3^  cup  boilin,g  water;  add 
caramel  to  give  the  light-brown  hue  desired;  freeze  in  the  ordinary 
way. 

This  gives  only  a pleasing  suggestion  of  peanut  flavor.  If  more 
is  desired  increase  the  quantity  of  butte'r  or  add  peanut  meal. 

No.  68,  PEANUT  FRAPPE 

Make  1 pint  of  good  gelatine;  set  aside  to  harden.  Stir  1 cup 
granulated  sugar  into  1 pint  of  whipped  cream;  when  the  gelatine 
is  just  on  the  point  of  setting  stir  into  it  the  whipped  cream  by 
beating  with  a fork;  add  % cup  of  peanut  meal;  serve  in  sherbet 
glasses  with  fresh  or  preserved  fruit. 

No.  69,  PEANUT  AND  PRUNE  ICE  CREAM 

2 cups  milk, 

3 e,ggs  (yolks), 

Vz  pound  pulp  from  well-cooked  and  sweetened  prunes, 

1 quart  cream, 

Vz  cup  blanched  and  ground  peanuts  (peanut  meal  can  be  used), 

1 teaspoon  vanilla  extract  and  pinch  of  salt. 

Heat  the  milk;  pour  it  into  the  well -beaten  egg  yolks;  blend  all  the 
other  ingredients  thoroughly;  freeze  and  serve  in  dainty  glasses. 

CANDIES  AND  CONFECTIONS 

No.  70,  PEANUT-BUTTER  CANDY 

2 cups  sugar, 

Vz  cup  milk, 

2 tablespoons  peanut  butter. 

Blend  together;  boil  for  five  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire  and 
beat  steadily  until  cool. 

No.  71,  PEANUT  CANDY 

2 cups  sugar, 

1 cup  peanuts. 

Melt  the  sugar  in  a frying  pan;  melt  slowly,  stirring  constantly 
until  melted;  butter  a shallow  dish,  and  cover  bottom  with  the 
roasted  and  cleaned  nuts;  pour  the  candy  over  them;  set  aside; 
when  cool  break  in  pieces,  and  serve. 


24 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


No.  72,  PEANUT  CARAMELS 

1 cup  sugar, 

1 cup  molasses, 

1 cup  butter, 

1 cup  milk  or  cream, 

1 cup  ground  peanuts. 

Cream  su,gar  and  butter;  add  molasses,  cream  or  milk,  stirring 
constantly;  put  mixture  into  a boiler  and  let  boil,  gently  scraping 
the  bottom  to  prevent  burning  (do  not  stir) ; let  cook  until  it  forms 
a soft  mass  when  dropped  into  cool  water;  add  peanuts  and  pour 
into  buttered  tins.  The!  layer  should  not  be  more  than  % an  inch 
thick.  When  cool  enough  cut  into  small  squares,  and  wrap  in  thin 
glazed  paper. 

No.  73,  PEANUT  KISSES 

1 egg  (white), 

1 cupful  sifted  brown  sugar, 

1 cupful  chopped  peanuts, 

^ teaspoon  vanilla. 

Beat  the  egg-white  very  stiff;  stir  in  the  sugar,  nuts,  and  vanilla, 
and  drop  on  a buttered  pan;  make  the  kisses  two  inches  apart;  bake 
in  a moderate  oven. 

No.  74,  PEANUT  CHOCOLATE  TAFFY 

Vz  pound  of  sweet  chocolate, 

2 cups  granulated  sugar, 

1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
cup  boilin,g  water, 

Vz  cup  of  peanut  meal  or  coarsely-ground  meats  as  desired. 

Grate  the  chocolate;  add  the  boiling  water;  stir  until  dissolved. 
Place!  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  cook  for  several  minutes;  add 
the  peanuts,  and  boil  until  the  candy  will  snap  when  pulled  apart; 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  pour  out  to  cool;  pull  and  cut  as  desired. 

No.  75,  PEANUT  BALLS 

2 cups  brown  sugar, 

1 cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 

Vz  cup  water, 

^ (scant)  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Boil  all  together  until  the  candy  will  snap  when  tested  in  cold 
water;  remove  from  the  fire;  add  two  cups  blanched  peanuts  (coarse- 
ly broken) ; stir  until  nearly  cold;  form  into  balls  by  rolling  between 
palms  of  the  hands;  wrap  in  paraffin  paper  to  prevent  sticking 
together. 


25 


105  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 

No.  76,  PEANUT  CANDY  NUMBER  TWO 

2 cups  brown  sugar, 

1  cup  rich  milk, 

% cup  syrup, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 cup  shelled  peanuts. 

Mix  sugar,  syrup,  milk  and  butter;  boil  until  a soft  ball  can  be 

formed  by  dropping  in  cold  water;  when  nearly  cold  beat,  and  add 
^ nuts. 

( No.  77,  PEANUT  FILLING  FOR  CAKES,  COOKIES,  ETC. 

3 teaspoons  corn  starch, 

2 eggs  (yolks), 

V2  cup  rich  milk, 

V2  cup  sugar, 

1 cup  chopped  peanut  meats, 

V2  cup  water. 

Use  double  boiler;  put  in  the  water  and  milk;  when  hot  stir  in 
3 te*aspoons  corn  starch  previously  dissolved  in  a little  cold  water; 
cook  for  10  minutes;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 eggs  that  have  been 
creamed  with  cup  sugar;  cook  for  3 minutes;  when  cold  add  the 
chopped  nuts;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

No.  78,  CANDIED  PEANUTS 

3 cups  sugar, 

1 cup  water. 

Boil  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  water;  then  flavor  with 
lemon.  It  must  not  boil  after  the  lemon  is  put  in.  Put  a nut  on  end 
of  a flne  knitting-needle;  dip;  take  out  and  turn  until  cold.  If  the 
candy  gets  cold  set  on  a warm  stove  for  a few  minutes. 

No.  79,  PEANUT  NOUGAT  WITH  HONEY 
^ cup  honey, 

V2  cup  brown  sugar, 

1 pound  blanched  peanuts, 

2 eggs  (whites). 

Boil  the  honey  and  sugar  together  until  drops  of  the  mixture 
hold  their  shape  when  poured  into  cold  water;  add  whites  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  cook  very  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until 
the  mixture  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water;  add  the 
peanuts  and  cool  under  a weight;  break  in  pieces  or  cut  and  wrap 
in  waxe*d  paper. 

No.  80,  PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE 
2 cups  powdered  sugar, 

1 cup  milk, 

2 heaping  teaspoons  peanut  butter. 


26 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


Mix  ingredients;  boil  vigorously  five  minutes;  beat;  pour  in  a 
buttered  pan,  and  cut  in  squares. 

No.  81,  PEANUT  DIVINITY  FUDGE 
2V2  cups  sugar, 

V2  cup  syrup, 

V2  cup  water, 

2 eggs, 

1 cup  coarsely-broken  peanuts. 

Boil  the  sugar,  syrup  and  water  together  until,  when  dropped  in 
cold  water,  the  mixture  will  form  a hard  ball  between  the  fingers; 
beat  the  eggs  stiff;  pour  half  the'  boiling  mixture  over  eggs,  beatipg 
constantly;  return  remaining  half  of  the  mixture  to  the  stove,  and 
boil  until  it  forms  a hard  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water;  re- 
move from  the  stove,  and  pour  slowly  into  first  half,  beating  con- 
stantly; add  peanuts,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  pour  into  a buttered 
pan,  and  cut  into  squares. 

No.  82,  PEANUT  CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

2 cups  white  granulated  sugar, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 cup  cream, 

cake  unsweetened  chocolate, 

1 cup  chopped  peanuts. 

Put  in  the  sugar  and  cream,  and  when  this  becomes  hot  put  in  the 
chocolate,  broken  up  into  fine  pieces;  stir  vigorously  and  constantly, 
put  in  the  butter  when  it  begins  to  boil;  stir  until  it  creams  when 
beaten  on  a saucer;  remove  and  beat  until  quite  cool,  and  pour  into 
buttered  tins ; add  the  nuts  "before  stirrin,g. 

No.  83,  PEANUT  BRITTLE  NUMBER  ONE 

3 cups  granulated  sugar, 

1 scant  cup  boiling  water, 

1 cup  roasted  peanuts, 

1/4  teaspoon  soda. 

Melt  all  together  over  a slow  fire;  cook  gently  without  stirring 
until  a little  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water;  add  the  nuts; 
turn  the  mixture  into  buttered  pans  and  cut  while  hot.  Stirring 
will  cause  the  syrup  to  sugar. 

No.  84,  PEANUT  BRITTLE  NUMBER  TWO 

2 cups  granulated  sugar, 

1 cup  freshly-roasted  peanuts. 

Shell  and  clean  the  peanuts;  put  in  the  stove  to  heat;  put  sugar 
in  frying  pan,  and  heat  over  a hot  fire  until  it  is  changed  to  caramel; 


106  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


27 


put  the  peanuts  in  a well-buttere'd  tin;  pour  the  sugar  over  them  at 
once;  when  cold  turn  the  pan  up^side  down,  and  tap  bottom  until 
the  candy  falls  out;  break  into  small  pieces. 

No.  85,  PEANUT  AND  POPCORN  BALLS 
Vz  teaspoon  soda, 

1 pint  syrup, 

2 tablespoons  butter, 

1 teaspoon  vinegar, 

3 quarts  fre'shly-popped  corn, 

1 quart  freshly-roasted  peanuts. 

Cook  until  the  syrup  hardens  when  a little  is  dropped  in  cold 
water;  remove  to  back  of  stove;  add  the  soda  dissolved  in  a teaspoon 
of  hot  water;  pour  syrup  over  the*  corn  and  nuts,  stirring  until  each 
kernel  is  well  coated;  mould  into  balls. 

No.  86,  FROSTED  PEANUT  FUDGE 

Make  a good  c^iocolate  fudge;  beat  until  creamy;  pour  into  a well- 
buttered  pan  of  about  one  inch  depth;  when  ne'arly  hard,  cover  with 
finely-chopped  fig  preserves;  then  place  in  a kettle  1 cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  Y4=  cup  water,  and  a pinch  of  cream  of  tartar;  boil  until 
it  forms  a hard  ball  when  dropped  into  water;  pour  over  the  stiffly- 
beaten  white  of  one  egg;  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  or  extract; 
cover  fruit  with  a generous  layer  of  crushed  peanuts;  whip  syrup 
until  creamy;  pour  over  the  fruit;  when  cold  cut  into  squares. 

No.  87,  PEANUT  PANOCHA 

2 cups  brown  sugar, 

% cup  cream, 

1 teaspoon  vanilla, 

2 tablespoons  butter, 

1 cup  chopped  peanuts. 

Boil  all  the  ingredients  together  except  the  vanilla  and  nuts  until 
the  soft-ball  stage  is  reached;  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool;  add 
the  vanilla  and  nuts;  beat  until  creamy;  turn  into  a buttered  pan; 
when  cool  cut  up  into  squares. 

No.  88,  PEANUT  FRUIT  ROLL 
31/4  cups  sugar, 

1 cup  cream, 

1 cup  coarsely  chopped  peanuts, 

Vz  cup  each  of  fi,gs,  dates  and  candied  pineapple. 

Boil  sugar  and  cream  until  it  reaches  the  soft-ball  stage;  pour 
out  on  a large  platter,  and  cool;  work  with  a wooden  spoon  until 
creamy;  add  the  nuts  and  fruit;  work  until  mass  begins  to  stiffen; 
then  make  into  a long  roll,  and  wrap  in  moist  towel.  In  an  hour 
or  more  it  can  be  sliced,  and  the  slices  wrapped  in  oil  paper. 


28 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


No.  89,  SULTANA  PEANUT  CARAMELS 

1 cup  light  brown  sugar, 

V2.  cup  golden  com  syrup, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 teaspoon  vanilla  extract, 

1 cup  granulated  sugar, 

Vi  cup  milk, 

Vi  cup  coarsely-chopped  peanuts. 

1 cup  Sultana  raisins. 

Place  the  ingredients  in  a sauce-pan,  and  boil  to  the  firm  ball 
stage;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  flavor  with  the  vanilla.  These  are 
especially  nice  when  dipped  in  chocolate. 

No.  90,  NUT  HONEY 

1 pound  honey, 

1 pound  sugar, 

1 tablespoon  water. 

j'V  / Mix  and  set  in  a vessel  of  hot  water  until  melted;  cook  over  a 
v:  moderate  fire  until  it  forms  a ball  when  a little  is  dropped  in  cold 
water;  add  one  pint  of  crushed  peanuts;  flavor  with  lemon,  cut  into 
squares. 

No.  91,  PEANUT  ALMOND  FUDGE  (VERY  FINE) 

1 cup  peanuts  deeply  browned  but  not  scorched.  Crush  or  grind, 
1%  cups  su,gar, 

1 cup  milk, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 teaspoon  almond  extract. 

Brown  % cup  of  sugar  in  a granite  pan;  add  the  milk;  when 
'/V  the  brown  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved  add  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar  and  the  butter;  -boil  to  the  soft-ball  stage;  flavor  with  the 
extract;  add  the  peanuts;  beat  until  creamy;  pour  into  buttered 
tins,  and  mark  off  into  squares. 

No.  92,  PEANUT  TUTTI-FRUITTI  CARAMELS 

2 cups  light-brown  sugar, 

% cup  milk, 

% cup  chopped  dates, 

^ cup  candied  pineapple, 

1 cup  peanuts,  blanched  and  ground, 

1 cup  com  syrup, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 teaspoon  lemon  extract, 

% cup  rasins,  seeded  and  chopped, 

cup  preserved  watermelon  rind,  chopped  very  fine, 
y,  cup  chopped  figs. 


106  WAYS  FOR  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


29 


Place  all  the  ingredieints  in  a sauce-pan  together,  and  boil  to  the 
hard-ball  stage;  stir  only  enough  to  keep  the  mixture  from  sticking. 
If  the  double  boiler  is  used  the  candy  will  not  stick  much.  Remove 
from  the  fire;  add  the  extract;  pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  mark 
off  into  squares. 

No.  93,  PEANUT  HONEY  PUFFS 

1 cup  cream, 

3 cups  su^ar, 

^4  cup  honey, 

1 egg  (white), 

1 cup  ground  peanuts. 

Boil  the  cream  and  sugar  (without  stirring)  until  the  threading 
stage  is  reached;  add  the  honey;  when  syrup  will  make  a soft-ball 
when  dropped  into  cold  water,  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  into 
it  the  well-whipped  white  of  an  egg;  add  the  nut-meats;  when  firm 
and  creamy  whip  into  balls. 

No.  94,  PEANUT  MAPLE-SUGAR  FUDGE 

2 cups  maple  sugar, 

1 cup  milk, 

1 cup  chopped  peanuts, 

1 tablespoon  butter. 

Boil  the  sugar,  milk,  and  butter  to  a soft-ball  stage  when  tested 
in  cold  water;  add  the  nut  meats;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
until  creamy;  pour  into  buttered  pans;  when  cool  cut  into  squares. 

No.  95,  PEANUT  CARROT  FUDGE 

1 cup  carrot  pulp, 

1 cup  com  syrup, 

Vz  cup  peanut  meal, 

1 teaspoon  vanilla  or  almond  extract, 

2 cups  su,gar, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 lemon, 

1 orange. 

Bake  some  nice,  yellow  carrots  until  tender;  pass  through  a 
sieve;  to  a cupful  of  this  pulp  add  all  the  ingredients  except  the 
extract;  pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  when  cool  cut  into  cubes;  use 
both  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel  of  the  lemon  and  orange. 

No.  96,  PEANUT  AND  FIG  CANDY 

1 pound  sugar, 

% teaspoon  vinegar, 

% pint  water, 

% pint  chopped  peanut  meats. 


30 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


Boil  over  a slow  fire  the  sugar,  water,  and  vinegar  until  it  forms 
a hard  ball  when  tested;  stir  a few  times;  shred  the  same  quantity 
of  dried  figs  as  peanuts;  mix  with  the  peanuts;  spread  out  in  a 
well-buttered  dish;  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them;  cool,  and  cut  or 
break  into  small  pieces. 

No.  97,  PEANUT  NOUGAT 
1 cup  peanut  meal, 
teaspoon  salt, 

1 cup  granulated  sugar. 

Put  sugar  into  frying  pan;  stir  over  a slow  fire;  when  melted  add 
the  peanut  meal;  mix  thoroughly;  butter  knives  and  the  underside 
of  a pan;  sprinkle  generously  with  the  whole  and  half  nuts  roasted  to 
a delicate  brown;  shape  into  squares  % inch  thick.  Arrange  it  so 
that  each  square  contains  one  or  two  whole  or  half  nuts. 

No  98,  PEANUT  MARSHMALLOWS 

V2  pound  gum  Arabic  dissolved  in  1 pint  of  water, 

V2  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 

4 egg  whites,  well  beaten. 

Lemon  flavoring  to  taste, 

V2  cup  peanut  meal. 

Strain  the  gum  Arabic;  add  the  sugar;  stir  over  a slow  fire  until 
dissolved;  cook  to  the  consistency  of  thick  honey;  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  the  egg  whites;  stir  until  it  is  somewhat  thin  and 
does  not  adhere  to  the  fingers;  add  the  lemon;  pour  in  tins  dusted 
with  corn  starch;  put  in  cool  place;  when  firm  cut  into  small  squares. 

No.  99,  PEANUT  TAFFY  CANDY 

1 cup  sugar, 

V2  cup  molasses, 

14  cup  butter, 

1 cup  peanuts  (freshly-roasted  peanuts — rolled). 

Boil  the  sugar,  molasses  and  butter  together  until  it  snaps  when 
dropped  in  cold  water;  remove  from  fire;  stir  in  the  mashed  peanuts; 
pour  in  buttered  dish;  pull  when  cold  enough. 

No.  100,  PEANUT  BROWNIES 

1 cup  sugar, 

V2  cup  flour, 

V2  cup  melted  butter, 

V2  cup  coarsely  ground  peanuts, 

2 eggs, 

2 squares  chocolate. 

Mix  and  bake  in  shallow  pan  in  a quick  oven;  garnish  the*  top 
with  nuts;  cut  in  squares. 


ji06  WAYS  FOE  HUMAN  CONSUMPTION 


31 


FANCY  CHEESE  FOR  THE  HOME 

CREAM  CHEESE  (AFTER  M.  R.  TOLSTRUP) 

Into  a gallon,  of  10%  to  15%  sweet  cream  put  one  or  two  table- 
spoons starter,  fresh  buttermilk,  or  clean  clabbered  milk;  stir  gently, 
and  heat  to  about  85  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Then  add  about  20  drops 
of  rennet  extract  or  its  equivalent  in  rennet  tablets.  Dilute  the 
rennet  with  cold  water  at  least  10  times  its  own  volume  before  it 
is  added  to  the  cream.  Mix  well  in  the  cream;  cover  up  carefully 
so  as  to  retain  the  heat;  set  aside  for  about  three  hours,  when  a 
soft  curd  will  be  formed.  Spread  a piece  of  cheese-cloth  over  a 
bowl,  and  carefully  dip  the  curd  into  it;  let  drain  for  a few  minutes; 
tie  ends  of  the  cloth  together,  and  hang  up  to  drain,  which  will  re- 
quire from  12  to  24  hours.  Do  not  shake  or  break  the  curd  any 
more  than  is  necessary,  or  much  fat  will  be  lost. 

When  sufficiently  drained  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well;  wrap  cloth 
around  the  cheese,  put  between  two  boards,  and  press  lightly  for  a 
few  hours.  When  it  assumes  a slightly  mealy  consistency  it  is 
ready  to  eat. 

If  this  cheese  is  to  be  marketed  it  must  be  put  in  glasses  or  4-ounce 
packages,  and  wrapped  in  wax  paper  and  tin  foil,  or  it  may  be  put 
in  small  4 or  8-ounce  paraffin  paper  boxes. 

No.  101,  PEANUT  CREAM  CHEESE  WITH  OLIVES 

Remove  the  seed  and  mince  one  ounce  of  olives  very  fine;  run 
through  a meat  mincer,  and  one  ounce  of  peanuts  freshly  roasted  and 
treated  in  the  same  way.  To  every  pound  of  cheese  add  this  olive 
and  nut  mixture.  This  is  very  dainty  and  appetizing. 

No.  102,  PEANUT  CREAM  CHEESE  WITH  PIMENTO 

To  every  pound  of  cream  cheese'  grind  V2  ounce  of  pimento  pepper 
and  one  ounce  of  peanuts  in  the  same  way  as  recommended  for  the 
above. 

No.  103,  PEANUT  SANDWICH  CHEESE 

To  each  pound  of  cream  cheese  add  two  ounces  of  peanut  meal; 
blend  thoroughly. 

No.  104,  PEANUT  COFFEE 

V2  cup  peanuts, 

V2  cup  wheat  or  rye, 

V2  cup  cow  peas. 

Roast  all  to  a rich  coffee  brown;  grind  and  make  as  for  postum. 

To  those  who  like  a cereal  coffee,  this  will  be  quite  acceptable, 
even  delicious.  To  more  or  less  habitual  coffee-drinkers,  one-third 
or  one-half  real  coffee  will  make  the  above  recipe  more  acceptable. 


82 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  PEANUT 


No.  105,  SALTED  PEANUTS 

Parch,  rub,  and  winnow  out  the  brown  hulls;  put  in  pan  with  just 
a speck  of  butter;  heat  gently,  shaking  all  the  time;  when  buttered 
sprinkle  over  with  fine  salt. 

The  above  recipes  are  only  a few  of  the  many  ways  in  which  this 
wholesome  pea  can  be  prepared  for  human  consumption.  Let  us 
hope  that  Macon  County  will  seize  her  splendid  opportunity,  and 
that  every  farmer  will  put  in  at  least  a small  acreage  of  peanuts. 


