Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 





Beat 


Ag Raat: 164 ae 


Herb Masic= a 


« « AND » » 


~ Hardy Plants 


2, fOr the Home Garden 


HERB PLANTS AND SEEDS 
NATIVE FERNS AND WILD FLOWERS 
PERENNIALS - ROCK PLANTS 





1943 


THE TOOLES 
ee ad Dale 





PEDO OD GOGO WDD DOD YD GGG U DODD GWDD WUWWDDU DO YU YY DD YY DODD YHGYHYGDDOHYOWHHHHHHDHHHLHYHYHHYHHHHHHYHOHOB 


RU 


PLOVOLDLOULY YL LHYUUHYULHYYHYYHOYYHYYHHYHOYHHHYHYYHHOOH 


Greetings and Good Wishes 


War has brought many changes to every family during the past 
year. To better meet these conditions we have curtailed our production 
of ornamental plants. 


We have maintained our output of herb plants as these are essential 
to our Victory Gardens so that we may have a wider variety of flavors 
in our restricted diet. 


In these trying days, problems on the home front are having to be 
solved daily. New conditions due to rationing, and the many items which 
we must forego, confront us. 


Monotony will be inevitable in the rationed days ahead unless we 
use ingenuity in varying our limited resources. This is especially true of 
the food which must provide us with the necessary strength to “carry 


on;’’ and must be appetizing and satisfying as well. 


In this herbs will prove invaluable; the ease with which they vary 
the daily diet, add to the palatability, and glamorize the commonplace, 
as well as provide many nutritional benefits. 


The herb plants and products have been combined with the wild 
flowers and perennials in one catalog, in order to conserve paper. 


Should you be in this part of the country at any time we will be 
very pleased to have you call at Garry-nee-Dule. 


WHAT DOES GARRY-NEE-DULE MEAN? 


Many of our friends ask us the meaning of ‘‘Garry-nee-Dule,” the 
name of our home and Nursery. It is the phonetic spelling of ‘‘Garrdha- 
ni-Tuathail,”’ ancient Gaelic or Irish meaning Garden of the Tooles. 


DELIVERY CHARGES PREPAID 


Please note that our prices on all retail orders except trees and shrubs 
include prepayment of delivery charges, if your order amounts to $1.00 
or more. On orders of less than $1.00, 10c should be included for parcel 
post. 

WE GUARANTEE 
We sincerely try to grow and pack our products to reach you in the 
best possible condition. Should we fail to do this, as sometimes hap- 
pens, please let us know at once and we will try to make adjustments 
that are satisfactory to you. We guarantee our products to reach you 
in good condition. Any plants proving to be not true to name will be 
replaced if you will notify us within reasonable time. 


THE TOOLES OF GARRY-NEE-DULE 
Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Toole 


Baraboo, Wisconsin 


i) 


POOSPSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSOSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSOSSSSSSSSOSSSSSSSSSSOOSSO 


POSSSSSSSSSSSSSSGGSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSOSSOSSSSSS SSS OSS OOOO 


Z The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 





Growing Herbs 


With restraints put on our travels by the necessities of war we will have 
more time for gardening this year. Or at least we will, many of us, turn to 
gardening as a relief to our spirits and an outlet for our griefs. 


The herb garden adds to the enjoyment and savoriness of our meals which 
will add to our good health and spirits. 


Other herbs add, by their fragrance or legends or medicinal value, to our en- 
joyment of the garden. 


Growing in friendliness with the human race, herbs became an essential to 
every home, whether cottage or castle, up to recent times. In the rapid expansion 
of this country, some of their virtues were overlooked for a time. Their revival 
is not a fad but a natural outgrowth of our need for the natural things of life. 


Herbs present no special cultural problems. Excessive fertility is not 
necessary for most kinds, and a well drained good garden soil is ideal. The mint 
family seems to do well in a soil that is constantly moist. Chervil requires 
moderate shade to do well. 


Sow seeds of the annual herbs outdoors at early corn planting time, in your 
locality, or when the maples start to leaf out. 


HERB PLANTS AND SEEDS 


Agrimony (Agrimonia eupatoria). An old fashioned herb with, at one 
time, a reputation as a medicinal plant. Leaves somewhat resemble those of a 
strawberry. Tapering spikes of yellow flowers to 12 or 18 inches. 

Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Anise (Pimpinella anisum)—Annual. Seeds used in medicine, also to flavor 
cakes and candy. The leaves are used as flavor for salads and other foods. 
Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Basil, Bush (Ocimum minimum)—Annual. Spicy, fragrant leaves much used 
in food flavoring. This is a compact type and is useful for bordering herb beds. 
Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00 Seeds, per Packet 10c 


Basil, Sweet (Ocimum basilicum)-—Annual. The spicy fragrance blends well 
as a flavoring for tomatoes, fish sauces and for many other dishes. Each 10c; 
per Dozen, $1.00; Seeds, 10c per Packet. 


Basil, Holy or Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum)—Annual. Sacred to the Vishnu- 
Brahmans. Has a rather strong scent and is sometimes used to flavor cooking. 
Plants, Each 15c; per Dozen, $1.50; Seeds, 15¢ per Packet. 


Burnet (Sanguisorbia minor)—-Perennial. The young leaves are used in 
salads to add the flavor of cucumbers. Loses flavor when dried but makes a 
good vinegar. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; per Dozen $2.50; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Celery, Giant Pascal. This is the variety which we grow for drying the tops 
for flavoring. 


Plants, each 10c; 3 for 25c; 12 for $1.00; Seeds 10c per packet. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 3 


Celery, French or Soup. This variety is not blanched but makes many fine 
leaves which are used in soups. The seed is very aromatic and is used wherever 
this flavor is desired. 

Plants, 10c each; 3 for 25c; 12 for $1.00; Seeds 10c per packet. 


Celeriac or Root Celery. Both the heavy root and the leaves are used in 
soups; and the roots are used as a vegetable. 
Plants, each 10; 3 for 25c; 12 for $1.00; Seeds 10c per packet. 


Chamomile, German (Matricaria chamomilla)—-Annual and with smaller 
flowers. | Widely used as a beverage tea, and as a wash for blonde hair, also as 
a medicine. Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Chamomile, Roman (Anthemis nobilis)—-Perennial. Home remedy and 
beauty treatment. The dried flowers are steeped as a tea. The low growing 
fern-like foliage is sometimes used to carpet paths or as a lawn. Each 25¢c; 8 for 
65c; per Dozen $2.50. 


Chervil (Anthriscus cerefolium)—Annual. Easily grown but needs light 
shade. The fine light green leaves are much used as garnish and flavoring in 
se way parsley is used. Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 

Cc. 

Chicory, Witloof or French Endive—Perennial, with ornamental blue flowers. 
The blanched leaves are used as a salad, dried roots are used for a coffee substi- 
tute. Each 25c; 12 for $2.50; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Chives (Allium schoenoprasum)—Perennial. The tender tops are used wher- 
ever a mild onion-like flavor is desired. The deep lilac heads of flowers are also 
very ornamental. ..Clumps, Each 20; 3 for 50c; 12 fer $2.00; Seeds, 10c per pkt. 


Coltsfoot (Tussilago farfara) Used for centuries as a cough remedy and 
lung medicine. The early flowers look much like dandelions, followed by the large 
leaves. 

Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Culvers Physic (Veronica Virginica)—-The roots of this native plant were 
used as a remedy, and the plant with its long spikes of white or lightly tinted 
flowers in midsummer is quite ornamental. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for 
$2.50. : 


Comfrey (Symphytum officinale)—-Perennial. An old time medicinal herb 
flowering early in the season. Coarse leaves, growing from 18 to 36 inches. 
Each 25c; 3 for 65c. 


Coriander (Coriandrum sativum)—Annual. Attractive highly scented flow- 
ers. The seeds are used as a flavoring in breads, candies, liquers, etc. Each 10c; 
per Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Costmary, Sweet Mary, Bible Leaf, Ete. (Chrysanthemum balsamita). An 
old fashioned, sweet smelling herb, with long narrow leaves and a coarse sprawl- 
ing growth. The dried leaves make a very good tea. 

Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65c; $2.50 per dozen. 


Cress—A quick growing annual plant which adds that much craved peppery 
taste to salads in spring. Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Dill (Anethium graveolens)—-A well known annual. Plants, Each 10c; per 
Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Elecampane (Inula helenium)—A tail perennial, with yellow flowers. Roots 
used as a remedy for colds and lung ailments. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Fennel, Florence—Annual. The thickened bases of the stems may be blanch- 
ed and eaten as a vegetable while the leaves, flowers and seeds are used as a 
fiavoring for salads and other dishes, especially fish. Plants, Each 10c; per 
Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Fennel, Sweet—Annual. More branching, not used as a vegetable but same 
value for flavoring other dishes. Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per 
Packet 10c. 


Garlic (Allium sativum)—Used with discretion it is indispensable in fine 
cooking. Started Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00. 


4 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 





SCENTED GERANIUMS 


OR 


PELARGONIUMS 


All the varieties of scented geraniums are tender and must be carr.ed over 
winter as house plants in cold climates. 





We have traced back the names as nearly as we can but have no doubt that 
further study will disclose mistakes. We will be pleased at any help that you can 
give us at any time. 


Apple Scented (P. odoratissimum)—A delicious scent of ripe apples that wil! 
make your mouth water. Rounded leaves covered with silvery down. Flowers 
small and white. Each 50c. 


P. Australis—Round hairy leaves, spicy fragrance. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Balm Scented (P. melissimum)—Large coarsely lobed leaves. Combined 
spice and lemon fragrance. Flowers light pink, purple veined. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Camphor Scented (P. graveolens)—-Strong scented variation of the rose 
geranium. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Clorinda—Large pink flower and rather pungent sweet scented leaves. Each 
50c. 


Fern Leaved (P. filicifolium)—Dainty, finely cut leaves. Slow grower and 
hard to propagate. Each 75c. 


P. Hirsutum—Deeply cut leaves, lightly hairy with a silvery sheen. Sweet 
fruity fragrance. Sprays of showy flattened flowers freely produced, white with 
purple blotch. Each 50c; 3 for $1.25. 


Lemon Scented (P. limoneum)—Refreshing lemon fragrance, crinkled round- 
ed foliage, showy carmine flowers. Each 35e; 3 for 95ce. 


Lime Scented (P. limoneum)—Larger leaf than the lemon scented with a 
distinct, pleasant scent of lime. Each 35e. 


Lemon Scented (P. Crispum latifolium)—Very stiff upright growth with 
moderate sized rounded leaves with cut edges. A refreshing lemon scent to the 
leaves. Each 35c; 83 for 95c. 


Lemon Scented (P. crispum var. Prince Rupert)—Larger leaves than above, 
with a sweeter lemon scent. Each 35e; 8 for 95c. 


Citrus Scented (P. odoratum) Lady Mary—Sweet orange scent, rather dwarf 


with soft rounded light green leaves. Rose and pink flowers of fair size. Each 
35c; 3 for 95c. 


Mint Scented (P. tomentosum)—Large soft velvety green leaves with a 
silvery sheen. Small but striking white flowers with lavender markings at 
base, peppermint scent. Each 35c; $8 for 95c. 


Nutmeg Scented (P. fragrans)—Soft, velvety smooth, round leaves of 
medium size. Nutmeg scent, Small white flowers. Each 35c; 8 for 95c. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants i) 





Pine Scented (P. fragrans)—This looks exactly like the nutmeg but has a 
pleasant, strong scent of pine. Each 35ce; 3 for 95e. 


Mrs. or Lady Taylor (P. filtrum)—Peppery scent, dark green cut leaves, 
brilliant deep scarlet flowers of medium size. Each 35c; 8 for 95c. 


Pheasants Foot (P. alchemilloides)—The finely cut, long, dark green leaves 
and pleasing growth of plant make it attractive. Large bright flower, pink with 
purple featherings. Each 35c; 38 for 95c. 


Rose Geranium (P. graveolens)—Strong rose scent, rather coarsely cut leaf. 
Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Rose Geranium (P. capitatum)—Scent is sweeter than above and foliage 
faintly silvery at times. Came to us as P. fragrantissima. Each 35e; 8 for 95c. 


Skeleton Kose—Dr. Livingstone (P. denticulatum majus)—Strong rose scent, 
leaves finely divided. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Pretty Polly (Probably P. Quercifolium)—The young growth is soft and 
hairy but later turns smoother and shows a dark spot in the center of the leaf 
showing its relation to the Oak Leaved group. Has rather showy small flowers. 
Kach 35c. 


Walnut Scented (P. quercifolium)—This variety has a rather trailing growth 
with a rounded leaf and dark bronze center in the leaf. An attractive and inter- 
esting variety. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Skelton’s Unique (P. quercifolium)—Rounded lobed leaves with dark center. 
Flowers of a deep lavender color. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


True Oak Leaved (P. quercifolium)—Deeply cut oak shaped leaf with bronze 
center. Odor of the green husks of black walnut. Large showy flower, bright 
pink with purple blotch. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Fair Elien (P. quercifolium)—Leaves not so deeply cut as above and odor 
less strong. Slightly smaller flower. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Giant Oak Leaved—Large leaves and strong growth with dark center to 
leaves. Each 35c; 3 for 95c. 


Germander (Teucrium chamaedrys)—Perennial. Once both a culinary herb 
and an herb of medicine and magic. Small dark green oak shaped leaves. Now 
more highly valued for use as a tiny clipped hedge around formal beds of herbs. 
Each 25c; per Dozen $2.50; per 100, $12.00. 


Ginger, Wild. (Asarum canadense). Large heart shaped leaves and curious 
chocolate brown flowers on creeping root-stalks. Makes a fine ground cover in 
shade. Root stalks like ginger and are sometimes candied. 

Each 25c; 3 for 65c; $2.50 per dozen. 


’ Horehound (Marrubium vulgare)—-Perennial. You will love the downy, 
crinkled grey foliage even if you do not care to make your own Horehound candy. 
Each 25c; 3 for 65c; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Horseradish (Armoraicia rusticans)—-Easily grown in good garden soil. 
Roots, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00. 


Hyssop (Hyssopus officinalis)-A hardy perennial with spikes of rich blue 
flowers in summer, it is an ornament in the herb garden or perennial border. 
15-18 in. Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50; Mixed Seed, per packet 15c. 


Hyssop (Pink Flowered)—-Unusual pink flowered form. Each 25c; 3 for 65c. 
Hyssop (White Flowered)—A rare white Hyssop. Each 25c; 3 for 65c. 


Hyssop, Palestina. A species, much like the above, with blue flowers and a 
more prostrate type of growth. 
Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65c; $2.50 per dozen. 


6 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 








Lavender (L. Vera)—-A favorite fragrant herb. Needs protection during 
winter in the north. Plants, Each 35c; 3 for 95c; 12 for $3.50; Seeds, per Packet 
15c. 


Lavender Cotton (Santolina incana)—Neat gray foliage with a fragrant 
scent. The plants trim easily to an even height so that lavender cotton is much 
used for formal beds and for old-fashioned knot gardens. A perennial, somewhat 
tender, and requires protection in the north. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50; 
100 for $12.00. 


Lavender Cotton, Green (Santolina rosmarinifolia)—-A green species with 
finer foliage than the grey. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 





Foxden variety of above. This variety, originated by Mrs. Helen M. Fox, 
well known author on Herbs, has the characteristic hardiness and fine foliage 
of the above but has the grey color of Santolina incana. It may be trimmed if 
desired or it makes a very attractive plant if allowed to take its natural form. 
We are very pleased to be able to offer this novelty to our customers. 

Plants, each 35c; 3 for 95c; 12 for $3.50. 


Lemon Verbena (Aloysia citriodora)—-Tender perennial. The leaves have a 
clean cool reviving scent of lemon. Delicious as a flavor for salads and drinks 
and as a tea. The dried leaves are popular in sachets and sweet bags. Must be 
carried over as a house plant, where they go dormant for a time. Plants, Each 
35c; 3 for 95c; 12 for $3.50. 


Lovage (Levisticum officinalis)—-Delicious celery-like flavor with a nut-like 
after flavor that makes this one of our favorite herbs for use in salads, cottage 
cheese, and other dishes, either alone or combined with other herbs. The plant is 
a very hardy perennial, tall, rather coarse growing like a giant celery. The seeds 
are sometimes used in cooking and the stems blanched and used as a vegetable. 
Not at all common. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50; Seeds, per Packet 
10c. 


Maroram, Pot (Origanum vulgare)—This hardy perenniel is used in medi- 
cine, perfumes and mature fiower heads are used to flavor cookery. Each 25c; 3 
for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Marjoram, Sweet (Origanum majoranum)—tThis old favorite culinery herb is 
much used for flavoring salads, soups, stews and other dishes. A tender perennial 
best treated as an annual. Piants, Each 15c; per Dozen $1.50. 


Marigold, Pot (Calendula officinalis)—-Annual. Grown mostly as an orna- 
mental, but the orange flower petals add color and quality to soups and stews. 
Plants, Each 10c; 12 for $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


MINTS 


For your convenience we have grouped all the mints together. 


Anise Mint (Agastasche anisiodora) — This version of Anise Mint is a native 
plant of the Mint family, found across the northern part of the country. Grows 
about 12 to 16 inches tall, with notched oval leaves, blue flowers. It has a most 
delicious anise like flavor. The Indians made a tea from it and early settlers 
used it in flavoring food. Each 35ec; 3 for 95c. 


Applemint (Mentha gentilis)—-Low spreading perennial plant with a mild 
attractive fragrance, and green leaves mottled with yellow. Plants, Each 25c; 
3 for 65c. 


Bergamot (Mentha citrata)—-A fragrant, old perennial herb. A scent of 
orange combined with mint. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Mint, Curly Mint, Spearmint (Mentha spicata crispa)—-Perennial. We like 
this form of the popular Mint with its dark, curly green leaves for all kinds of 
mint flavoring. This is the kind most used in the south for flavoring drinks. 
Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 7 





English Mint, Lambmint, Spearmint (Mentha spicata)—-Perennial. This is 
the more common type of mint with light green leaves. Strong mint flavor and 
much used as a flavor for peas, lamb or mutton or wherever mint may be re- 
quired. Perennial. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Round Leaved Mint, Wooly Mint (Mentha rotundifolia)—Perennial. A more 
delicate flavor than the above. The leaves are round and hairy and it grows 
rather tall. Plants, Each 25; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Catnip or Catmint (Nepeta cataria)—-Perennial. Beloved of cats, also a 
medicinal plant and used also as a tea. Tall, grey foliage, will grow most any- 
where when established. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; per Dozen $2.50; Seeds, per 
Packet 15c. 


Pineapple Mint (Mentha rotundifolia variegata)—Perennial. Wooly nearly 
round green leaves variegated with creamy white. Spreading growth about 9 to 
10 inches tall. Young growth has a delicious pineapple odor. Older growth is 
more mint-like in fragrance. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; per Dozen $2.50. 


Peppermint (Mentha piperita)—-Tender perennial. We like this very much 
as a tea, either by itself or combined with Lemon Verbena. Plants, Each 25c; 3 
for 65c; per Dozen $2.50. 


Japanese Peppermint—A peppermint with an extra strong flavor, much 
used for the distilling of peppermint oil. Although of Japanese origin, it is 
thoroughly Americanized and you need fear no subversive activities from it. 
Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Mountain Mint (Pychnanthemum flexuosum)—A native plant closely related 
to the Mints, with a strong fragrance between that of Pennyroyal and Pepper- 
mint. Flat corymbs of white flowers in midsummer on erect plant 12 to 18 in. 
tall. Likes sun and well drained soil. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c. 


Mountain Mint (Pychnanthemum muticum)—Much like the above but the 
stems are not so stiffly erect and the leaves are oval rather than awl shaped. 
rlowers with touch of lavender. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c. 


Mustard, Tender Green—A quick growing annual salad plant, with a cress 
like pungency, either used alone or to add taste and flavor to other salads. Seeds, 
per Packet 10c. 


Orach, Red. An annual plant much like spinach but of a beautiful red color. 
Adds an ornamental touch to the herb or vegetable garden. 
Plants only, each 10c; 3 for 25c; 12 for $1.00. 


Oregano—This is a variety of Origanum, exact species unknown, much used 
by Greeks and Italians, also by Mexicans who introduced it into California. 
Perennial but may not be hardy here. The imported Greek Oregano seems to 
consist only of the flower.heads which have a strong flavor. The leaves also 
have a mild flavor of Sweet Marjoram. Easy to grow. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; per 
dozen $2.50. 


Parsley, Fine Curled—Probably the most used flavoring herb. Can be used 
green and dries easily for winter use. Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00. Seeds, 
per Packet 10c. 


Parsley, Hamburg. This variety makes a large root something like celeriac, 
and is used in much the same way. Plants, each 10c; 3 for 25c; 12 for $1.00. 


Pleurisy Root (Asclepias tuberosa). Also known as Butterfly Weed and Or- 
ange Milkweed. A gay and colorful native plant for the sunny garden. An old 
time medicinal herb also. Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Rampion (Campanula rapunculus)—-A rarely grown salad herb or vegetable. 
It is an easily grown biennial, and if the seeds are sown in May the roots will be 
ready to use in late fall. The roots are eaten raw or boiled and the tops also 
used as greens. Plants, each 25c; per dozen $2.50. 


8 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 


Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) -The fragrant leaves are used in sachets 
and pot pourris, also to flavor roasts and stews. Perennial shrub in mild climates 
but tender in the north and must be taken inside over winter. Plants, Each 35c; 
3 for 95c; 12 for $3.50. 


Rue, Herb of Grace (Ruta graveolens)—A strongly scented perennial herb 
with attractively formed foliage and curious yellow flowers. An old-time medical 
herb and once used as a flavoring for salads but too strong for most modern 
tastes. May be used as a low clipped border plant for formal beds. Plants, Each 
25c; 3 for 65c; per Dozen $2.50; per 100 $12.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Saffron, False (Carthamus tinctorius)—The richly colored yellow flowers are 
used as a substitute for true Saffron. Annual. Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen 
$1.00; Seeds, per packet 15c. : 


Sage (Salvia officinalis) Used to fiavor poultry, pork and other food. Also 
an old home remedy. Perennial. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; per Dozen $2.50; 
Seeds, per Packet 15c; 14 oz. $1.00. 


Sage, Holt’s Mammoth—tThis sage is simply a variety of the common sage 
(Salvia Officinalis) which has been propagated from cuttings to keep it true. 
The growth is strong, much heavier than the average of that grown from seeds 
but the leaves are not any larger. Plants, grown from cuttings, Each 25c; 3 
for 65c; per Dozen $2.50. 


Salvia, Pineapple (Salvia nutans)—-A tender sage with a distinct scent of 
pineapple. Crimson flowers. Each 25c. 


Savory, Summer (Satureia hortensis)—-The leaves and fine stems, green or 
dried are used to flavor sausages, meat dishes, and peas and beans. Annual. 
Plants, Each 10c; per Dozen $1.00; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Savory, Winter (Satureia montana)—Finer leaves and more compact growth 
than the summer savory. Flavor much the same as the summer variety but there 
is more pungency to the leaves. Plants, each 25c; per dozen, $2.50. No seeds. 


Shallot (Allium ascalonicum)—This member of the onion tribe is used in 
making an herb vinegar. The flavor is hard to describe but is something like a 
mild garlic. We do not know how hardy it is in Wisconsin as yet. Plants, Each 
25ec; 3 for 65¢c; 12 for $2.50. 


Skirret—An old fashioned perennial herb, the roots being roasted or boiled 
and used in salads. Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50; Seeds, 15c per pkt. 


Sorrel, French (Rumex scutatus)—Basis for the popular Sorrel soup so much 
used in France. Adds sprightliness to salads, sauces, spinach and omelets. Per- 
ennial. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50; Seeds, per Packet, 10c. 


Southernwood, Lads Love, Maidens Ruin (Artemisia abrotanum)—A hardy 
shrubby plant. Formerly used in love potions, in medicine and much esteemed 
for its fragrant finely cut foliage. Makes a very attractive clipped hedge. 
Height to 4 ft. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Southernwood Dwarf Form—tThis variety is dwarf in form, reaching about 
18 in. and trims well for dwarf hedges or formal borders. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 
per Dozen $2.50. 


Sweet Flag (Acorus calamus)—-A native perennial with aromatic roots with 
a sweet pungent taste of ginger. The roots are sometimes candied, also used in 
perfumes and medicines. Plants, Each 20c; 3 for 50c; 12 for $2.00. 


Sweet Maudlin (Achillea ageratum)—Finely divided aromatic leaves, and 
yellow flowers. Two feet, perennial. Each 25c; 8 for 65c. 


Tansy (Tanacetum vulgare)—-Perennial. A strongly aromatic plant, widely 
popular as a home remedy and sometimes used in cookery and as a tea. Plants, 
Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 9 





Tarragon, True (Artemisia dracunculus)—One of the indispensable herbs, 
the basis for the well known Tarragon Vinegar, and used in salad dressings and 
special meat sauces. Perennial. Plants, Each 35c; 3 for 95c; 12 for $3.50. 


Thyme, Kitchen (Thymus vulgaris)—-This is another of the favorite kit- 
chen herbs widely used as a flavoring for many kinds of dishes. Plants, Each 
25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Thyme, Caraway (Thymus Herba barona)—With the flavor of caraway, 
sometimes with a touch of anise scent also. Creeping. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 
65e; 12 for $2.50. 


Thyme, Lemon Scented—The lemon scented Thymes are deliciously scented 
of lemon and may be used as a flavoring for drinks. We have three types of 
Lemon Thyme. Green upright; Golden Variegated upright and Creeping Golden. 
Plants, any variety, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


We have many other kinds of Thymes listed among the Perennials and Rock 
Garden Plants. 


Wocdruff or Waldmeister. (Asperula odorata). A sweet scented, white flow- 
ered perennial, the leaves and flowers being used to flavor May wine and Ale. 
Plants, each 25c; 3 for 65ce. 


Wormwood (Artemisia absinthum)—A gray-leaved perennial, used as an old 
home remedy. Plants, Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50; Seeds, per Packet 10c. 


Roman Wormwood (Artemisia pontica)—-A hardy perennial, fine leaved 
aromatic plant with grey foliage. Can be used as a clipped border for perennial 
beds. Plants, Each 20c; 3 for 50c; per Dozen $2.00. 


Yarrow (Achillea millefolium)—The red form is quite ornamental and the 
leaves are used as a medicinal tea. Each 25c; 3 for 65c; 12 for $2.50. 


Mixture of Annual Herb Seeds—This is a mixture of seeds of all the annual 
herbs we offer. Per Packet 10c. 


Mixture of Perennial Herb Seeds—All the Perennial varieties of herb seeds in 
mixture. Per Packet, 10c. 


HERB PLANT COLLECTIONS 
SPECIAL $1.00 HERB COLLECTION OF SAVORY OR CULINARY HERBS 


One plant each of six Savory Herbs for $1.00, delivered—Marjoram, Thyme, 
Sage, Savory, Chives, Lovage. 


SPECIAL COLLECTION OF HERBS FOR THE FRAGRANT GARDEN 


One plant each of six Fragrant Herbs for $1.50 delivered—Rosemary, Lav- 
ender, Costmary, Lemon Verbena, Rose Geranium, Balm. 


A GARDEN OF OLD-FASHIONED MEDICINAL HERBS, OR “SIMPLES” 
One plant each of six old Home Remedies, for $1.00, delivered,_—Horehound, 
Hyssop, Rue, Tansy, Peppermint, Wormwood. 


10 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 


Herb Magic 


Extreme care has been used in the preparation of these herbs to insure you 
a product that is clean and full of flavor or fragrance. All the culinary herbs 
have been carefully gathered, inspected, and sorted and washed; then placed in 
screen bottomed trays and dried under cover so as to preserve every possible 
bit of the fresh natural fragrance and flavor. After another inspection they are 
stored in air-tight containers until packaged. 


These flavorful herbs are granulated, ready to use. A folder, prepared by Mrs. 
Toole, gives many suggestions for the use of these herbs, enclosed with each order, 
on request. It will just fit your card index recipe file. 


It is not possible to give exact amounts to be used of the different herbs due to 
varying tastes. In a general way, start with a level teaspoonful for six portions 
and increase or lessen the amount according to taste, or in recipes use one scant 
teaspoon of dried herbs where a tablespoon of green herbs is called for. 


PREPARED CULINARY HERBS 


Basil — Has a spicy flavor, which is very desirable; for salads and dishes 
containing tomato and cheese, eggplant, squash, carrots, peas, meats; and es- 
pecially for meat substitutes, including beans and fish. 


Bay Leaves — The popular flavoring medium included in countless recipes. 


Celery — A convenient way of adding this well-known flavouring to soups 
and many other dishes. Celery is rich in magnesium, iron, potash, lime, sulphur 
and chlorine. 


Chives — Retains the Chives flavor very well, and is a most convenient way 
to add the delicate onion flavor to all sorts of dishes. 


Fennel — An anise-like flavor, delicate in quality. Used in soups, bever- 
ages, Salads and desserts. Especially associated with fish cookery. It is said 
Fennel is to fish what Mint is to lamb. 


Lovage — A rich celery-like flavor, with a lingering nutty after flavor. Used 
in countless ways—delightful in soups, sauces, salads, stews; and combines well 
with other herbs. 


Marjoram — Sweet Marjoram is a well known old herb of many uses. It 
has a very pleasant rich flavor that may be used alone or combined with other 
herbs in soup, stews, sausages; added to dressings for fowl and fish, and to soup; 
—in fact used in almost endless ways. 


Mint — The cool, fresh flavor of Mint, or, as it is also known, Spearmint and 
Lambmint,—has many uses such as flavoring for cooling drinks, sauce for lamb 
or mutton, to flavor beets, peas, carrots and many others. Used sparingly in 
fruit salad, combining particularly well with bananas, pineapples, or oranges. 


Applemint—A variation of mint which may be used in the same ways as 
ordinary mint. 


Pineapple Mint — Another variation of mint with a subtle flavor. 


Orange Mint — A variation especially delightful when blended with apple- 
mint. 


Oregano — This is a marjoram much used in Greece, Italy and in Mexico. 
The flavor is strong but much like Sweet Marjoram. It is used generally where 
Marjoram is used, especially in meat stews, gravies and sauces. 


Parsley —- Except for garnishing, our dried and flaked Parsley may be most 


conveniently used for any purpose that fresh parsley is used. Parsley is rich in 
iron and mineral salts. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 11 





Rosemary — Added sparingly, it gives a distinctive flavor to preserves, jams, 
sweet pickles, meat sauces, stews, poultry, cream soups and fish. Combines well 
with sage in stuffings for pork and veal. 


Sage — A strongly flavored old-time favorite, used in pork sausage, poultry 
seasoning, and many other ways. 


Savory (Bohnenkraut) — Much used as a flavoring for beans, and in salads, 
vegetables, stews and other dishes. A pot of savoury baked beans will extend the 
meat ration delightfully. 


Sorrel — French Sorrel, with the well-known sorrel flavor, especially desir- 
able in soups, stews and sauces. 


Tarragon — A well known delicate flavoring medium, used in many dishes 
such as salads, sauces for fish, egg dishes, poultry and many others. 


Thyme — May be used alone or combined with other herbs, in an almost 
endless variety of ways. Used with various meats, poultry, fish, cheese, eggs, 
soups, vegetables, stuffings and salads. 


Lemon Thyme — A thyme with a fresh flavor of lemon. Gives a different 
flavor to salad, to cooling drinks, and to sauces for fish. 


Prices of the above— 


PAC OLG i ie OZ, Sih ie er aaah he eR La 2 et de are aie eae Ys ete Sel ae ce Per Pkt. 20c 

3 Pkts. for 50c; 6 Pkts. for $1.00 
Glass7) ars; -COMtai ming or OF. wcke eb ks bet nce Mielec eninaeeet rate Per Jar 25c 
Glass Jars; containing: 1707. Ger NA Fh SL ere oS Per Jar 50c 


HERB BLENDS FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES 


These combinations have been carefully compounded by Mrs. Toole, after 
testing many old recipes. We believe you will like them. 


Poultry Seasoning — A blend of savory herbs to flavor stuffing of all kinds 
of poultry or game birds and fried chicken. Mix the herbs with the flour or 
batter in which the chicken is dipped when sauted, Customers tell us it is equal- 
ly as good on other meat dishes. 


Fish Herbs — This combination of nine herbs adds a delightful savor to any 
fish dish without obscuring the fish flavor. Mix in a sauce or add to a stuffing. 
Also mix with flour or other medium in which fish is dipped when sauted. 


Savory Meat Herbs — Try this combination of nine herbs that harmonize 
so delightfully with soups of meat stocks, consomme, roasts, meat loaves and all 
types of meat dishes. The herbs are either sprinkled over, rubbed or mixed into 
the meats. (Try any of the above blends with liver, tongue or heart). 


Omelet Herbs —— Adds zest to omelet or any egg dish. Mix the herbs with 
eges before cooking, or sprinkle over omelet before folding. Delightful flavor, 
too, in creamed chicken or soups. 


Salad Herbs — A combination of ten herbs for seasoning salad dressings or 
to sprinkle on leafy salads and various salad mixtures. This is very popular. 
Gives a tantalizing flavor to either vegetable or fruit salads. Add to the dress- 
ing an hour or two before serving to get the full flavor of the blend. 


Tomato Herbs — A special combination that goes with any tomato dish, a 
soup, stewed or baked tomatoes, tomato juice cocktail and tomato aspic. 


Prices of the above— 


PE (eo) ram AM 1 y lesan ence staat ures SR At Sala x: tae ES oT Alien See ee Per Pkt. 20c 

| 3 for 50c; 6 for $1.00 
CASH O URIS,  CONTRINING Wy OF tr ete ae ett GOS cert a teeta alate Per Jar 25c 
CEP ESI BPR REP LEED LUN TTY 9 9a ne CY Aap h a caret ape o Meili aah ON a ieee oe eer me meted Per Jar 50c 


SOUP HERBS—HEspecialiy for meat stocks. Put up in cloth bags, for con- 
venience in using. Each bag will season about two quarts of liquid. 
CERES UE Maen LiJU) Fat oy foe Lag2) oat: tage 5 Sete RRs ian, oe) aime rota RPE RB oe Se Per Jar 50c. 


12 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 


TOMATO SOUP HERBS—Especially for tomato or other vegetable soups, 
and tomato cocktails, in cloth bags; each bag will season about two quarts of 
liquid. 

Glass Jars,\of seven  Dags sxc cee eee pentane Geer peta pee Per Jar 50c. 

(NOTE — Soup herbs are only packed in 50c jars). 


SPECIAL BOXES FOR HOME USE OR GIFTS 


Whether for use as a gift to a friend or in your own home you will be thrilled 
with these special combination boxes. 


HERB MAGIC BOX NO. 1 


This popular collection, containing four 4%4-oz. jars; one each of Salad Herbs, 
Poultry Seasoning, Savory Meat Herbs, and Tomato Herbs; or your choice of any 
other dried: culinary sherps cen. a kee ee eee ee Per Box $1.00 


HERB MAGIC BOX NO. 2 


For those desiring greater variety, containing six 144-0z. jars; one each Salad 
Herbs, Poultry Seasoning, Savory Meat Herbs, Sweet Basil, Lovage, and Parsley; 
or your choice of any other variety of dried herbs. 2... eee Per Box $1.50. 


KITCHEN BOUQUET BOX 


An attractive box, packed with six jars (each jar containing 1 oz.) of pre- 
pared dried herbs, full of the savor and aroma of the herb garden. 

The box contains one jar each of Salad Herbs, Poultry Seasoning, Savory 
Meat Herbs, Basil, Lovage, and Sage. If you prefer you may choose any other 
combination of dried culinary herbs. 


The price, postpaid to you or any address you wish in this country is only 
Per Box $3.00. 


With each of the above boxes will be packed a folder giving suggestions for 
the various uses of herbs. 


INTRODUCTORY OFFER 


To introduce our herbs we will send any %-oz. jar in attractive little box, 
With SSUP SeSTIOUS LOL USC reso astern een tee ence ee Per Box 35c. 


COTTAGE KITCHEN BOX 


A green metal box, which may be used later, if desired, as a card file for 
your favorite recipes. This contains eight packets of the most popular flavoring 
herbs and herb mixtures. 

These consist of one each of the following: Basi], Lovage, Sage, Mint, Pars- 
ley, Poultry Seasoning, Salad Herbs, and Savory Meat Herbs; or your own 
choice of varieties if you prefer. With each box is packed one of Mrs. Toole’s 
folders giving many valuable suggestions for the various uses of these herbs. 

You will find this a much appreciated gift for anyone who takes pride in 
good cooking. 

The metal box and eight packets of herbs, postpaid to any address in this 
COU ore tape te ree ee ee a Per Box $1.50. 


ATTRACTIVE GIFT FOLDER 


Your choice of any three packets of Culinary Herbs, or Mixtures in an appro- 
priate folder or envelope, including a copy of Mrs. Toole’s Seasonable Suggestions 
with Herbs. (If you are uncertain what to choose we suggest one each of Salad 
Herbs, Poultry Seasoning and Savory Meat Herbs, or one each of Basil. Sage, and 
I ys teat io een ec Fi sits enBontesake cap eos tatcinnsa Tee oar ee Per Folder 50c. 


“SAMPLER” BOX 


There have been repeated requests for a box containing small amounts of 
herbs in greater variety. For people wanting to become acquainted with their 
many distinctive flavors we are offering our Sampler Box. This contains usable 
quantities of 12 different herbs and blends—Basil, Lovage, Mint, Sage, Tarragon. 
Thyme. and Poultry Seasoning, Fish Herbs. Omelet Herbs. Salad Herbs. Savory 
Meat Herbs and Tomato Herbs; in packets, with suggestions for their use. 

Per Box $1.00 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 13 


HERBS IN POTTERY 


Attractive, hand-made, small pottery jars; brown, with an old-time crackle 
glaze; each containing about %-oz., and filled with your choice of the following 
herbs and blends—Sweet Basil, Sweet Marjoram, Lovage, Sage, Thyme, Salad 
Herbs, Savory Meat Herbs and Poultry Seasoning. Each jar packed in gift box. 

Per Box 50c. 








CULINARY SEEDS 


Many herb seeds are used in flavoring various cookery. Their use adds 
interest and variety to the daily food. 
LOVAGE SEED CELERY SEED DILL SEED POPPY SEED 
SESAME (BENE) SEED 
ed ey ed ge PO Na ed OR ae a er ac ee ee een eS dee ee eee Ee 10¢ 


TISANES or HERB TEAS 


With the increasing scarcity of China Tea, why not adopt the custom so 
prevelant over much of Europe, that of drinking some of the various herb teas. 
You will particularly enjoy the distinctive flavors of Peppermint, or Pepper- 
mint and Lemon Verbena, Lemon Balm, Linden Blossom (‘rilleul), Sage, Chamo- 
mile or Spearmint. Most of these will make good iced tea also. Besides being 
a good beverage, most of them are mildly soothing to the spirit;—and who does 
not need a bit of that in this trouble-torn world? 


Herb ‘Teas in general are made by pouring boiling water over the herb, 
(about one teaspoonful to each cup or water), allow to steep about ten minutes, 
strain. Serve plain or with lemon or honey. Milk and cream usually are taboo. 
A porcelain container, and not metal, is used as in making other teas. 


Alfalfa and Peppermint — Alfalfa is rich in vitamins, especially vitamin K, 
and iron, also calcium. To this is added Peppermint for additional flavor. 


ak Be ee CCOTLUALIELIL SS ak ee RO) Lac elrn ir, Are errs Peete n te mies este a, 35¢. 
peed Ed Sete Pelapal erm ea hha erst ey Ag menace yeh” Ryan ee nee ONO ASM: So 7 ooo) bee Cane ae 50c 
Chamomile — Well known for its soothing quality. Besides this tendency 


to act as a nerve sedative it acts as a tonic to the digestive organs. Taken in 
sufficient quantity it is very effective in colds and fevers. May be sweet- 
ened with sugar or honey. A good night-cap tea. 

[yeh a EY ey Seep TRE BN GWA PEAT WM a FY 55ers erence ean 4 far Beer pe A aed etic Seana fy ate. oe 35¢ 


Lemon Balm — With its delightful scent of lemon and mint, may be used to 
flavor other teas, fruit drinks and cocktails, as well as being a beverage in itself. 
Requires a brief boiling period to bring out its full measure of flavor. 

Mery BRR Pa COM LAUT Set 10 Ze cree ce ee ee I ah ce I DR ani os BREEN LE 35 


Linden Blossom — The Tilleul of France—makes a warm golden liquid with 
a delicious aroma. Lemon may be served with this tea, also, try one or two 
cloves in each cup. It is mildly stimulant. Has been used for simple indiges- 
tion; also, in colds, used in quantity, to produce perspiration and relieve simple 


coughs. 

PertPigs) containing 1407, tee ee eee tee Part on saa oe terol Met More Sate oa Tel 35¢ 

SoBe BPN CONUS ATT OZ esac ha al ar te Berens AOE acento 75¢ 
Mint — This infusion, with the addition of a slice of lemon, is very refresh- 

ing, served hot or cold. Especially good for the digestion. 

jd ed eure lerehec hiv igbze ths) ARne mm On See ee ee Be ee ee 35¢ 


Peppermint — This is too well known to require much comment. -It enlivens 
the activity of practically all organs; and is most efficient where there are 


cramps. 
OE ng os OTL CSL LLY) ge Sega a Nace Sc ncn gn ota ewe 35¢ 
Peppermint and Elder Flower — A variation of Peppermint Tea, especially 


recommended for the chill preceding a cold. Also helps digestion and soothes 


the nerves. 
bi Dg Te oa CRP AT EG cad Tay 1 Oh ao BS OR ah Se, SO A Pia Saar oeeaao ee 35€ 


Peppermint and Lemon Verbena — This blend, and the one above, are vari- 
ations of the peppermint flavor, and delightfully refreshing. 
[ose oH bd "gran Pecaba ye STE tt god Ede) qkee en SMe 9 weet © Gide santo arr ee recent nea tL eae Ron ae eae 35e 


14 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 








Red Clover — The flowers and leaves of Red Clover make a delicately 
healthful tea. Red Clover is used for asthma and bronchial coughs. 


Per, Pkg., comtaiming <1) “OZ cst iiccg Bh aac ence ge 35¢ 
Red Clover and Chamomile — A variation of the above, popular in Colonial 

times. 

Per’ PEg:,. COmtar imino) 1 0% ht a a 35¢ 
Sage — An old time favorite as a beverage and remedy. Is a tonic and 


stimulant; useful in colds. Was used as a dressing for wounds and a gargle for 
sore throats. Sweetened with honey made it more efficient as a gargle. 
Per: Pe. ‘containing. LS02ire ares eae at eee ee ee 35¢ 


Wintergreen Leaves — (Also known as Teaberry). Very refreshing; with 
the characteristic flavor. An infusion has been considered a valuable remedy for 
rheumatism. 

Per Pkg., containing-cl 02. Samus. cre. 8 eek ee ee NN i oe er eae 35¢€ 


TEA BOX 


An attractive box, containing six of the above packages of tea, your choice. 
Per Box, $2.00 
COZY TEA BOX 


A combination of favorite old teas, with honey for sweetening; just the 
“makings” of a cozy tea party. 

One package each of Linden Blossom, Peppermint, Peppermint and Lemon 
Verbena, and Wintergreen (or your choice of any of the above teas) and % lb. 
Jar No. 1 Wisconsin White Honey, with the natural flavor of white clover 
Pern? BOX ee ene ee eee EG ee en ee ee Pe ee $1.50 


BRAZIL MATTE another AMERICAN TEA 


The well-known tea, which is the national drink of South America. An ex- 
cellent tonic. 
PRR Bn COTA CLINI Ah 2 Zee iene near eect teen oe 35¢c 


SIMPLES or MEDICINAL HERBS 


We have carefully prepared the following special “herbs for use and physic, 
not a few.” These as well as many of the culinary herbs were used as home 
remedies in pioneer times; and most of them still are recognized as standard re- 
medies. 

The constant demands on our strength and endurance, and the scarcity of 
doctors and nurses, make it of increasing importance that we keep ourselves 
free from the minor illnesses which so often grow to major proportions. What 
more natural than we go back to the old-time tried and true remedies of our 
forefathers—the basis of all our modern medical lore. A few of these follow: 

Catnip — Hot catnip tea is a stimulant and strengthens the kidneys as well 
as the whole system. The tea also breaks up a cold. A little milk is often add- 
ed to this tea. 


Celery — Celery tea, strong and hot, is of value in the cure of sciatica and 
neuralgia. 

Elder Flowers — Useful in rheumatism, gout and colds. 

Horehound — A good tonic. The tea, sweetened with honey, is useful in 


treatment of coughs and colds. Used also in the well known horehound candy. 


Hyssop — An infusion of this is a remedy for coughs, colds and pulmonary 
complaints generally. 


Rue — A bitter and aromatic stimulant very good for gas pains and colic. 
Tansy — Tansy tea was an old remedy for nausea, colds and rheumatism. 


Wormwood — A good remedy for weak digestion and consequent debility. 
Also a hot application of wormwood in vinegar and a bit of salt is a valuable re- 
medy for sprains and bruises (with unbroken skin). 


Yarrow — The infusion is used for colds and as a gargle for ordinary sore 
throat. It sometimes relieves simple intestinal cramps and pains, and the com- 
mencement of a fever. 

Prices of the above medicinal herbs— 

Per Pheg., containing 1 OZ. cists senticssneacernisonesicrsdiigotetcbeacal Mee) oer ae 35¢ 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 15 


HERB VINEGARS 


These vinegars are made with fresh herbs infused in cider vinegar. After 
many weeks infusion the flavored vinegars are strained, filtered, and sealed in 
attractive glass jars. A handy way to add these flavors to salad dressings, sauc- 
es, meats, pickles, etc. Also has a tenderizing effect on meats. 

Basil Vinegar — A spicy flavor for salads, meats and cocktails. 

Burnet Vinegar — Delicate cucumber flavor, delightful in salads and fish 
sauces; also sandwiches of the salad variety. Sold out, new crop ready July 1. 
July 1. 

Chives Vinegar — Where a delicate onion-like flavor is desired. 

Dill Vinegar — Strong dill flavor for salads, pickles, meats and fish sauces. 

Kennel Vinegar — Anise-like flavor for fish-sauces and salads. Try it in 
beet pickles. 

Garlic Vinegar — A handy way to add a suggestion of this flavor; especially 
to salad dressings, meats and sauces. 

Mint Vinegar — A basis for mint sauces; useful in many ways. Try a little 
in Harvard Beets, : 

‘Tarragon Vinegar — Much used in fine cookery. Especially good in fish 
sauces and oyster cocktails. 

Mixed Herb Vinegar — A careful blend of eight herbs, useful for many pur- 
poses. Delightful in meats and pickles; in salads and meat sauces. A handy 
plassejar- ol anys OtelueraADOVe CON ALIN Ses OZ wee o ee ee Per Jar 25¢ 
AS jarsOl-elgny OZ. CH PaCit Va eek te Oe tee PE ee I Beet co —- Per Jar 45c 

BOXED COLLECTIONS OF VINEGARS 
Four jars of vinegar, 4 oz. size, your selection any of the above ...... Per Box $1.00 
(LWO lal Seon 028) Siz Gas VOl PaSClCCLO Viet eet ett, at 2 eek Ss Og Ee ae Per Box $1.00 


PIQUANT HERB JELLIES 


Jaded appetites are enlivened with jellies flavored with various herbs; and 
they make delicious and attractive accompaniments to the meat course. We have 
prepared six of these. 

SAGE and CIDER — To serve with poultry and pork. 

‘THYME and GRAPE — A colorful jelly with beef and ham. 

MARJORAM and LEMON — Especially gcod with pork, beef or poultry. 

SAVORY and GRAPEFRUIT — A delicious accompaniment to lamb, duck 
and sausages. 

MINT and HONEY — The perfect garnish for veal, lamb and turkey. 

ROSE GERANIUM and ORANGE—A piquant jelly with this old-time 
favorite flavor. Delightful accompaniment to fruit salads and desserts. 








Glass Jars, any of the above COmtaimin gy, 3 Zi nace ccc ieee Per Jar 25c 
Box Of FOUL FATS, YOUT CHOLES, .cceccccerecceeesneesscccseeceeeeesenmsnssnnasnsenssnenesnseesaresasennssnnstnonnnen Per Box $1.00 
Box Of Six jAavS, YOU CHOC, .eeeeccecccccceccecccceccceecceceeceececeeeteeeeeeeeeenenennnecceneneececeececceceecencennanetet Per Box $1.50 


INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
To introduce our herbal jellies we will send any 3 oz. jar in an attractive 
A§E£ | errs DO ie ea ee ee i I ee Resa hep ROS Dothan noted Sees... Sti Per Box 35c 


WILD FRUITS, JELLIES AND JAMS 


Not exactly “herbs”, but always associated with “old-time” cookery. 
WILD GRAPE JELLY — Delightful with meats, especially wild game. 


WILD CKAB JAM — Another perfect accompaniment for the wild game; 
in fact the tang of its characteristic flavor adds delight to any meat course. 


WILD PLUM JAM — Well known for it delicious tangy flavor. 


Glass Jars, any of the above jams and jellies, containing 8 oz. in attractive 
eae Pee a at net arenes tC |. WN RMCE WE SSUM 4 2 oe Sc! Same ee te Oe SER OLT Per Box, 50c 


16 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 





mallee ns =e) SR 
FRAGRANCE 


.. “A wizardy of charms 
Ambrosia and aromas sweet 


In tender strife and conflict meet.”’ 





Sweet scented herbs always suggest to us the fragrance of old linens; closets 
and chests made sweet with the natural odors in flowers and leaves of herbs. 
They bring us the memories of old-fashioned gardens and more leisurely days. 


From our wide variety of fragrant and colorful herbs we have prepared 
many articles, delightful in the home and unusual gifts at any time; including 
bridge prizes, favors and memory gifts. 


FRAGRANGE JARS 


The joyous scents of a whole summer captured and kept for perpetual en- - 
joyment, poignant reminders of gardens that were and gardens to be. 


If placed in the closet or about the room with covers removed for a short © 
time, the escaping perfume from these delightful sweet jars scent the air with 
delicious fragrance. The scent is intended to prevade, not invade, a room. 
The jars retain their fragrance for long periods of time. 


For your enjoyment we have revived four old-time combinations, each with 
its own individual charm. 
SWEET LAVENDER 
Sweet clean fragrance of lavender flowers enlivened with added color. 


SUMMER GARDEN 
A colorful pot pourri of many kinds of fragrant flowers and leaves, gath- 
ered all through the garden year. 
GARDEN OF ROSES 
A blend of the varied sweet odors of garden roses. 


OLLAPODRIDA 


The fresh and sprightly fragrance of a blend of many sweet herbs and spices. 
Large clear glass jar with your choice of any of the above enticing frag- 
eh: ne sao ee ee oe oe Oo Oa ee ee Be Per Jar 75c 
Smatler jar Of Tne SAME (LV PC och enc eerie Per Jar 50c 
All jars packed in individual boxes. 


FRAGRANCE JARS OF HAND-MADE POTTERY 


Large, attractive, hand-made, pottery jars; brown, with an old-time crackle 
glaze; and filled with your choice of Sweet Lavender, Summer Garden, Garden 
of Roses or Ollapodrida. Per Jar, packed in Gift DOX oo cccccccccscccsscsssssesssssesssesesseee $1.00 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 17 





OLD FASHIONED SWEET BAGS 


Rose, Lavender, Rose Geranium and an Old Fashioned Mixture (of such 
sweet old herbs with Southernwood added), each with appropriate cover material. 
About 3% inches square. Your choice, any of the above four varieties. Per bag 25ce 
A Wy een WN RMSE eee aT COL PMO ese Seen aero, Moye eatlenteiandn ss aotinee-ins egiinoias Or BOX 50G 
BOUT eS WOR ES 1G lil ty OX tt dn eres es Ac ecb Per Box $1.00 


_ CLOSET BAGS 


Moths do not like a strong clean scent. Closet Bags, to discourage the 
moths and sweeten the closed closets and drawers—a combination of the strong- 
ly aromatic herbs which were used in olden time as moth repellants. 


If these bags are packed between the woolens and furs when laid away, 
there will be a delightful fragrance when taken out again, instead of the musty 
smell which often clings to them. Generous bags of appropriate material, with 
ribbon for hanging on each clothes hanger in your closet. About 3% inches 


SUE Re) nicht Se hh oe Ree ait Py Re (se ON Ee cok Poe TC Per Bag 25c¢ 
CSPEE SISO NSO LeU iba (OSC Leia OE aie ee rs ate Bak Oar wie bee Per Box 50c 
ASI ELa SEO LELOUIIRC LOGE Labs Sito seen ee cn be a teat aa isk dnt Per Box $1.00 


ATTRACTIVE GIFT FOLDERS 

Two of the above Sweet Bags or the Closet Bags in an appropriate folder 

AGIS CSE SE te Ss ate Ae eS es Se Bee ee Per Folder 50c 
TRIANGULAR SWEET BAGS 


Triangular sweet bags filled with Rose, Lavender, Rose Geranium and the 
Old Fashioned Mixture, with addition of delicately toned petals for color contrast, 
each with covers of dainty pastel organdy. 


YOU DAC IOICOMATLY Mart Oe DO VE1 OUT V ALUCULCS respec a aan sera oech eee Per Bag 25c 
GIECLISOX OF CWE ITS ATE EOS oars ese ales cece estas cta ecm sree Per Box 50c 
CRE GeO S COP OUT Litre ULAd ey Wy COU OA Cette rte etre ite emnn sinseicln Ba aomrrirce Per Box $1.00 


FRAGRANT HERBS 


From these you can combine and make your own sachets or sweet bags. 
Packages of the following fragrant herbs and flowers: 


BERGAMOT ROSE GERANIUM MINT GERANIUM ROSE 
POT POURRI LEMON VERBENA SOUTHERNWOOD 
LAVENDER FLOWERS 

Per Pkg., 25c 


KITTY-CATNIP-CUHIONETTES 


Small bags or ‘“‘Cushionettes” of fresh catnip to delight the playful cat. 
Each 15c 
CRIETE ROX CON UA INIT SI CSOT CL CC ceases ect te ote cece mete anannte Per Box 75c 


FRAGRANT PILLOWS 


These delightfully scented pillows make themselves very much at home in 
- the various rooms and are also ideal gift suggestions. Friends will gratefully ac- 
cept this expression of your remembrance. 


BALSAM PILLOWS-—generous pillows of this well known refreshing ever- 
green. These have been popular with asthma sufferers. 


NORTHWOODS Mixture—pillows as above but filling of a charmingly min- 
gled fragrance of the northwoods. 


18 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 











WILD EVERLASTING—a soft light filling with the delightfully soothing 
odor of these flowers. 


FRAGRANT EVERLASTING—a pillow as above, made more fragrant with 
additions such as rose petals, lavender and rose geranium. A delightful and 
lasting way of bringing the garden indoors, especially to an invalid. 

PINE PILLOWS —\these, too, are desired for the healing fragrance of the 
white pine. 

SWEET FERN—an old-time favorite, filled with the sweet smelling Sweet 
Fern leaves. 


Generous pillows of any of the above, with appropriate covers, Each $1.50 


Smaaller : Si2Z6 ois ssid eet Sats Pee ee Se erate che bate Soe eae, ly ee Se $1.00 
Pillows. of; plains MUS, are Cr SIZ Cs eer ee eee ae ee 85c 
STORES ANE) chat} VA= eer toe ie te Mice a btn: ont oe ka Leal! dite tnk Ai - MN ie AVE ha Mian Beda Bp A et 65¢ 


HAND-WOVEN PILLOW COVERS 
Smaller pillows of any of the above, with charming Hand Woven Covers, love- 
ly vari-colored designs, no two alike. Each pillow packed in individual boxes. 
You are sure to be delighted with this gift selection. .0000 Per Box $2.00 


LURE OF THE UNKNOWN 
Last, but by no means least, our “Surprise Box’”’, packed with culinary and 
fragrance (things,, our; choice imeallractive: NOx. ee eee ee Per Box $1.00 


Suggestions for use are packed with each order of culinary herbs. 








Please note that prices include delivery charge paid 
anywhere in this country, on orders of $1.00 or more, except trees and shrubs. 








Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 19 


SOME BOOKS ABOUT HERBS 


Price includes postage paid in this country. 





MAGIC GARDENS: A modern Chronicle of Herbs and Savory Seeds, by 
Rosetta E. Clarkson. This delightful book gives detailed information about 
more than 200 herbs; practical suggestions with charts for the little known 
phases of herb culture and planting, recipes, household hints, other uses and 
their traditions and legends. Over 50 illustrations which include reproductions 
from famous old herbals; 375 pages. $3.50 


GREEN ENCHANTMENT by Rosetta E. Clarkson. <A delightful book 
by the author of Magic Gardens, with chapters on monastery gardens, beginnings 
ot the flower garden, sweet scented geraiuums, creeping thymes, fragrant mints 
and other old-time favorites. A book to enjoy and to refer to. $3.00 


HERBS, THEIR CULTURE AND USES, by Rosetta E. Clarkson. The 
most popular of Mrs. Clarkson’s books on herbs. Tells how to grow them, how 
to gather and dry and prepare them and how to use them. A most valuable 
book for anyone interested in herbs. 226 pages. $2.75 


EDIBLE WILD PLANTS, by O. P. Medsger. The first complete handbook 
of America’s wild menu. Almost every edible plant of this country growing out- 
side of cultivation is described in detail. 80 pen and ink drawings; 19 photo- 
graphs; a combined index of scientific and common names; and a sensational, 
geographical key heighten the clarity of the text. 324 pages. $3.50 


HERBS AND THE EARTH, by Henry Beston. Interesting and readable as 

a book and one we often refer to. The author lists and describes the various 
herbs and their culture and associates them with their ancient historical past. 

$2.00 


HERBS, HOW TO GROW THEM AND HOW TO USE THEM, by Helen 
Noyes Webster. The title quite well describes the scope of this book by Mrs. 
Webster. A surprising amount of useful and interesting information about the 
growing and use of herbs condensed within its pages. New enlarged edition. $1.25 


HERBS FOR THE KITCHEN, by Irma Goodrich Mazza. As the title in- 
dicates, this is a cook book devoted to those dishes that the author believes taste 
better when cooked with herbs. This covers a wide range of dishes. Saiads 
come in for particular attention and the author’s ancestry has made it natural 
for her to include many Italian dishes. She gives a full description of the com- 
mon herbs and their uses. She throws in for good measure a wealth of unusual 
cooking information. $2.00 


SALADS AND HERBS, by Cora, Rose and Bob Brown. Salads and Herbs 
is a cookbook that supplements the average cookbook and gives new inviting 
ideas for every menu. | $1.75 


GARDENING WITH HERBS FOR FLAVOR AND FRAGRANCE, by 
Helen Morgenthau Fox. Herbs in the garden, over the stove and in the ice box 
are described by this gardener who grew them for three years before selecting 
her list of 68 varieties that can profitably be grown by gardeners in America. 
190 pages are devoted to careful and accurate notes on cultivation, season, frag- 
rance, and appearance of fiowers, seeds, and leaves. 56 expert recipes are also 
included. 334 pages, 12 illustrations. $2.50 


HOW TO GROW FOOD FOR YOUR FAMILY, by Samuel R. Ogden. A prac- 
tical book about the home vegetable garden. Tells you how to grow a wide varie- 
ty of vegetables, how to combat pests, and how to can and otherwise care for 
the crop. $2.00 


COME AND GET IT, by George W. Martin. Tells you all about fireplaces, 
fuel and all kinds of outdoor cookery. There is also a very comprehensive cook 
book, of outdoor and hunters and campers cookery, covering a wide range. $2.00 


20 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 








Native Ferns 


Do not plant ferns with much covering over the crowns, just enough to 
anchor them to the soil. The Ostrich Fern should be set with part of the crown 
above the soil. All of the ferns are adapted to both spring and fall planting, 
though late spring or summer planting of the larger varieties requires extra 
care in providing constant moisture until the roots are established. If planted 
in the fall, mulch with leaves or straw for protection over the first winter. If 
planted during the growing season and the tops become broken or bruised, cut 
them off and new fronds will soon appear. 


Most all ferns require a plentiful supply of leaf mold, peat or other loose 
humus in the soil to give the best results. Ferns have a tendency to ripen off 
early in the season if the summer is very hot and dry. Frequent and plentiful 
watering will extend their season very materially. 


In order to economize we have reduced the number of varieties of ferns and 
natives but we can supply most of the varieties that have appeared in recent 
lists, at the prices given in these lists. 


BRITTLE FERN Cystopteris fragilis 
Delicately cut fronds up to twelve inches tone) For the shaded moist rock 
garden. 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


BULBLET FERN Cystopteris bulbifera 

Long narrow graceful fronds up to 24 inches long. Tiny little bulblets on the 
back of the fronds drop off to start new plants. Shade and good humus soil. 
100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


CHRISTMAS FERN Polystichum achrosticoides 

Evergreen fern with dark green, leathery fronds. Enjoys fairly heavy shade 
and rich humus soil. An excellent kind for growing indoors. 100 for $15.00; 12 
for $2.50; Each 25c. 


CINNAMON FERN Osmunda cinnamomea 
A tall attractive fern that thrives where the soil is moist. Fine for stream 
side planting. Foliage good until fall. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


CLIFF-BRAKE, PURPLE Pellaea atropurpurea 

Beautiful blue-green leathery fronds on dark purple stems up to 12 inches. 
Likes well-drained sandy soil and light shade. 100 for $18.00; 12 for $3.50; Each 
35C. 


INTERRUPTED FERN Osmunda Claytoniana 

A tall growing luxuriant fern of light green color up to four feet. The 
brown sections in middle of some fronds are the seed-producers, hence interrupted 
fern. For light shade and well drained soils. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 
25¢c. 


LADY FERN Athyrium angustum 

One of the indispensible varieties where a graceful fern growing up to three 
feet is needed. Although it will grow under widely varying conditions, it does 
best in a rich humus soil, well drained but never lacking for moisture. 100 for 
$15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


MAIDENHAIR Adiantum pedatum 

A favorite among our native ferns. It thrives in deeper shade than most 
kinds. Shining brown stem up to 24 inches with a horizontal front of delicate 
texture. Appreciates well prepared soil with leaf mold and shade and some pro- 
tection from wind. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 21 


OSTRICH FERN Pteretis nodulosa 

Usually found native in damp stream bottoms but seems to thrive in any 
humus soil and shade. Beautiful divided fronds, resembling an ostrich plume up 
to five feet growing in vase shape. Spreads into clumps. 100 for $15.00; 12 
for $2.50; Each 25c. 


POLYPODY, COMMON Polypodium virginianum 
Forms running mats on shaded rocks. Small evergreen fronds up to 8 inches. 
Keep well watered until established. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


ROYAL FERN Osmunda regalis 

At its best in wet soils, but is attractive though of lower growth on drier 
soils. Large luxuriant fronds growing from 18 inches to 5 feet depending on 
fertility and moisture. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


SENSITIVE FERN Onoclea sensibilis 

Very coarsely cut leaf. Valuable for planting along stream sides or in damp 
spots in the larger wild garden but not in restricted areas because the growing 
point shifts position every year. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


SPLEENWORT, MAIDENHAIR Asplenium trichomanes 

A tiny fern of delicate beauty. Has a purple stem and maidenhair-fern-like 
fronds. Rocky crevices in rich humus and shade. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; 
Each 25c. 


SPLEENWORT, NARROW-LEAVED Athryrium pycnocarpon 

An uncommon and distinctive fern. The two foot frond is light green and 
thin in texture; the leaflets undivided and wavy. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; 
Each 25c. 


WALKING FERN Camptosorus rhizophyllus 

Small evergreen, limestone dwelling fern. Has long arrow-shaped leaves 
that taper out into tips that bend down and take root forming a new plant. Pro- 
tect from sun and drying out. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


WOODFERN, EVERGREEN Dryopteris marginalis 

Dark green leathery fronds, up to 24 inches long, evergreen and one of most 
persistent in foliage effect. Responds well in heavy shade. 100 for $15.00; 12 for 
$2.50; Each 25c. 


WOODFERN, FANCY Dryopteris spinulosa 

More delicate, finely cut fronds, up to 24 inches, of lighter green than the 
preceding. Desirable for home planting or rocky woodland paths. 100 for $15.00; 
12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


WOODSIA, COMMON Woodsia obtusa 
Six to ten inch fronds. A graceful little fern for shaded rock clefts. 100 
for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


WOODSIA, RUSTY Woodsia ilvensis 

Four to six inch fronds somewhat roughened with scales that turn brown 
giving its name of rusty. Grows on more exposed and sunny rock ledges than 
the common woodsia. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 





SPECIAL SELECTION FOR A COOL GARDEN OF FERNS FOR THAT 
SHADED NOOK : 


For those of you who love the beauty of ferns but are not sure which kinds 
to select I suggest this group as giving an interesting variety. You will find they 
will make a beauty spot along the north side of your house or other shaded place, 
either alone or combined with other native plants. Avoid regularity in planting, 
but allow from 12 to 15 or 18 inches space for each fern. The Ostrich and Inter- 
rupted Ferns grow the tallest. 


This Fern Bed includes 10 Ostrich, 10 Lady, 10 Interrupted and 6 Maidenhair 
ferns. 36 choice ferns delivered to you $5.00. One half of the above, 18 plants 
delivered for $3.00. 


22 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 


SPECIAL OFFER OF LITTLE FERNS FOR SMALL SPACES 


If you have a shaded spot in your Rock Garden, or a little water fall or other 
suitable spot, perhaps this selection will be just what you want. Three each of 
Walking Fern, Common Polypody, Maidenhair Spleenwort and Obtuse Woodsia, 
12 in all for only $2.00. 


THE FERNS AND FERN ALLIES OF WISCONSIN, by Tyron, Fassett, Dunlop, 

and Diemer 

A profusely illustrated manual of 158 pages. All the information necessary 

for an intensive study of Wisconsin ferns as well as a ready answer to casual 

questions. A fortunate endowment has made it possible to sell at less than cost. 
Postpaid, $1.00. 











Wild Flowers 


Those who have once treasured and nursed a wild flower into bloom in their 
own garden or watched the tender new frond of a fern unfold its beauty under 
their own protection seem ever after more appreciative of plants in their wild 
- haunts, and more anxious to conserve their beauty for all the world to enjoy. 


Each year as people learn to know and love our own wild flowers, we see less 
wanton destruction of our native flora, and more desire to truly conserve our 
native landscape. 


In line with this spirit of conservation we are growing as many of our native 
plants in our own nursery each year as we possibly can and each year’s exper- 
ience adds to our knowledge of the secrets of the successful propagation of new 
kinds. 


Others are gathered only from lands we know will soon pass into cultivation 
or will be destroyed by pasturing, or come from remote spots rarely or never 


visited by flower lovers. 
ORCHIDS 


All Cypripediums are sold by the bud, thus a clump with six buds is counted 
as six plants. 


SHOWY LADY SLIPPER Cyripedium Reginae 

Though mostly found in bogs often in sphagnum moss, its roots have been 
found to be distributed through a neutral layer of soil beneath. Give neutral 
soil, shade, and plenty of moisture. Large white flowers with pouch flushed rose- 
purple on leafy stems up to 30 inches. The latest to flower, in late June. 100 
for $30.00; 12 for $4.00; 3 for $1.00; Each 40c. 


WHITE LADY SLIPPER Cyripedium candidum 

Found in open meadows just above swampy areas in neutral to slightly al- 
Kaline soil. In cultivation give constant moisture, neutral or slightly limy soil, 
and light shifting shade. Our nursery stock has responded to a top-dressing of 
bone meal. Small ivory-white slippers on 12 inch leafy stems in May. 100 for 
$30.00; 12 for $4.00; 3 for $1.00; Each 40c. 


YELLOW LADY SLIPPER Cyripedium pubescens 

The easiest of the Lady Slippers to grow and always lovely. Just plant 
them among your ferns and other wild flowers where they will have moderate 
shade and not too dry a situation. A slightly acid leaf mold soil is appreciated. 
Yellow and brown effect on leafy stems up to 18 inches in May. 100 for $20.00; 
12 for $3.50; 3 for 95c; Each 35c. 


MOCCASIN FLOWER Cypripedium acaule 

Requires a highly acid soil, such as is found in a sphagnum bog, under pine 
trees, or on an old rotted tree trunk. Rose-pink flowers in June. 100 for $30.00; 
12 for $4.00; 3 for $1.00; Each 40c. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 23 





PUTTY-ROOT Aplectum hyemale 

Also called Adam and Eve. Has a large plantain-like leaf that persists over 
winter. Flowers yellowish on a spike. From our upland woods. 12 for $2.50; 
aiLor boc. ach 25c. 


RATTLESNAKE PLANTAIN Epipactis pubescens 

Low rosette of white-veined leaves. Excellent in terrariums and, in the 
shaded wild garden, notable for late summer spikes of white flowers as well. 12 
for $2.00; 3 for 50c; Each 20c. 


NATIVE PLANTS 


ANEMONE, MEADOW Anemone canadensis 
White flowers carried above the foliage up to two feet tall in June. Sun or 
light shade, enjoys a moist situation. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 25c. 


ANEMONE, RUE Anemonella thalictroides 
Airy white flowers and delicate foliage, early spring. $1.50 per doz.; each 15c. 
ASTER, NEW ENGLAND Aster novae anglias 


Makes a vigorous growth up to five feet. Pinch back in summer for a lower 
spreading plant. September flowering in shades of rich purple, rose, lavender, 
and white. 100 for $1500; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


ASTER, SAVORY LEAVED Aster linarifolius 
Neat compact plants to 10 inches high with narrow stiff green leaves and 
blue flowers in September; Sunny, porous sandy soil. 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


ASTER, SILKYLEAVED Aster sericeus 

Fine silvery hairs give a silky sheen to the leaves. To 18 inches with light 
violet flowers in September. From sandy soils. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 
25¢. 


BANE BERRY, RED EARLY Actaea rubra 

Baneberries add interest and color to the shaded wild garden when flowers 
are scarce. Sturdy plants two feet high with fluffy balls of white flowers in early 
May. In July come the colorful scarlet berries. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; 
Each 25c. 


BANEBERRY, WHITE LATE Actaea alba 

A little taller plant than red baneberry, otherwise much alike. Ivory-white 
berries with black tips, sometimes likened to doll’s eyes, in August. In a well- 
prepared bed one of the most permanent of wild flowers. 100 for $15.00; 12 for 
$2.50; Each 25c. 


BEEBALM, LAVENDER Monarda fistulosa 
Summer flowering light lavender heads. A fragrant leaved plant growing 
up to 3 feet. 12 for $2.00; 3 for 50c; Each 20c. 


BISHOPS CAP Mitella diphylla 

Notable for the delicate lacework petals of its small white flowers. Dainty 
leaves in the maple pattern. A choice plant, flowers in May, about 12 inches 
high. ~12 for $2.00; Each .20c. 


BLUEBELLS, SCOTCH Campanula rotundifolia 
Beautiful in its association with rocks and cliffs all over the temperate zone, 

yet we often find it growing on level sandy waste land and on grassy road banks. 

Delicate blue bells from June till fall. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


BLUEBELLS, VIRGINIA Mertensia virginica 
Beautiful pink buds changing to tubular blue flowers. Attractive blue-green 


BLOODROOT Sanguinaria canadensis 

White flowers in early spring as its leaves are unfolding. Large round scal- 
loped blue-green leaves. From an orange-fleshed tuber. 100 for $10.00; 12 for 
$1.50; Each 15c. 


24 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 





foliage which ripens off and disappears soon after the flowering season of late 
April or early May. Plant the heavy black roots in very early spring or from 
July to freezing up time. Plant in masses for a beautiful effect. 100 for $10.00; 
12 for $1.50; Each 20c. 


BUTTERCUP, EARLY Ranunculus fascicularis 
About one foot high attractive foliage. Bright yellow flowers in April—a 
cheery harbinger. 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


COHOSH, AMERICAN Cimicifuga americana 

An excellent plant for woodlands. Wide spreading foliage and a branched 
flowerhead of white flowers. Up to 3 or 4 feet in June. 12 for $2.50; 3 for Gbc* 
Each 25c. 


COHOSH, BLUE Caulophyllum thalictroides 

Foliage purplish when unfolding in spring. Finely cut leaves up to two feet. 
Flowers yellowish. Showy blue berries in August. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; 
Each 20c. 


COLUMBINE Aquilegia canadensis 

Often associated with rocks both dry and wet. Red and yellow flowers in 
late May. A showy and easily grown plant, likes part shade. 100 for $12.00; 
12 for $2.00; Each 25c. 


CONEFLOWER Lepachys pinnata 
Yellow flowers with long drooping petals in August. Tall plant of our 
roadsides. 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


CULVERS ROOT Veronica virginica 

The graceful slender spikes of white or lightly tinted flowers are very effect- 
ive planted among shrubs. Up to five feet, mid-summer flowering. 100 for 
$12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


CRINKLEROOT Dentaria laciniata 
One of the grand May flower show in our woods. About ten inches high 
with white nodding flowers. 12 for $1.00; Each 15c. 


DOGTOOTH VIOLET, WHITE Erythronium albidum 
Long oval leaf somewhat mottled that carpets the woodlands. White tinted 
lavender lily-like flower. From bulbs. 100 for $6.00; 12 for $1.00; Each 15c. 


DOGTOOTH VIOLET, YELLOW Erythronium americanum 
Not so freely flowering as above, a light yellow, but leaves conspicuously 
mottled. 100 for $6.00; 12 for $1.00; Each 15c. 


DUTCHMANS BREECHES Dicentra cucullaria 

Fern-like leaves in spring which die away in hot weather. The trouser-like 
white flowers have indeed a Dutchman’s waistline with golden trimmings in 
April. From a bulb found in rich leaf mold. 100 for $8.00; 12 for $1.25; Each 
abate? 


FRINGED WORMWOOD Artemisia frigida 

We have offered this plant before and many rock-gardeners have used it. It 
is included here to represent the characteristic plains gray-leaved plants. Blend- 
ing yellowish bells at the end of feathery spikes in August. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 
65c; Each 25c. 


GAYFEATHER, KANSAS Liatris pycnostachya 
Tall spikes of purplish flowers in late summer. Up to 5 feet tall. Well 
drained but not dry soil, open sun. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


GENTIAN, BOTTLE Gentiana Andrewsi 

The deep blue of the bottle or closed gentian carries color into the wild 
garden late into the fall. Glossy leaves on stems up to two feet. Does well in 
light shade. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Bach 25c. 


GERANIUM, WILD Geranium maculatum 


Dark pink flowers on leafy plants up to 18 inches. Not showy but a nice 
plant for shaded gardens. 12 for $2.50; Each 20c. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 25 


GINGER, WILD Asarum canadense 

The soft texture of the large heart-shaped leaves about 8 inches from the 
creeping root-stalks makes this one of the best woodland carpets. One needs to 
search close to the ground for the reddish-brown bell flowers in May. 100 for 
$10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 20c. 








GINSENG Panax quinquefolium 

Three large leaves on a slender stalk up to 18 inches. Flowers not showy 
but bears bright red berries in late summer. Has an interesting history in the 
China trade, <12 for $2.50;.3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


GREEN DRAGON Arisaema dracontium 

This cousin of Jack-in-the-Pulpit is less often seen. It is as tall or taller 
than Jack with the leaf divided into many finger-like projections. The tubular 
spathe is green and the spadix extends out several inches beyond the spathe. 
The fruit is orange-yellow. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


GUMBO LILY Oenothera caespitosa 

Amazing large white Evening Primroses from a rosette of long glossy 
leaves. Flowers last well thru the day and bloom is practically continuous from 
May to August. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


HEPATICA Hepatica acutiloba 

An easily grown and favorite early spring wild flower. Just give it a well 
prepared humus bed and you will enjoy the white, pink or lavender, even blue and 
almost purple flowers arising from the previous year’s still green leaves. The 
new foliage is attractive all summer. Attracted the early colonists because of a 
supposed resemblance of the leaf to form of the liver, hence by the doctrine of 
signatures, a sovereign remedy for ailments of that organ. 100 for $10.00; 12 for 
$1.50; 4 for 50c; Each 20c. 


HEPATICA, ROUNDLOBED Hepatica triloba 
If you have a natural or a prepared acid soil area try in it this hepatica. 
The same as above except for the leaf. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


IRIS, BLUE Iris versicolor 
Our native blue Iris growing to 30 inches or more. (See perennial list for 
the Yellow Flag Iris). 100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


JACK-IN-THE-PULPIT Arisaema triphyllum 

Jack is one of the Methodist persuasion, I think, anyway he readily moves 
his pulpit from the woods to your garden. Occasionally we find giant ones, 
regular Henry Ward Beechers, from bulbs 5 inches across. 100 for $10.00; 12 for 
$1.50; 3 for 40c; Each 20c. 


JACOBS LADDER Polemonium reptans 

Light blue flowers in late spring with abundant fern-like foliage that persists 
till freezing. Will also thrive in sunny rock garden if protected from drought. 
100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


LOBELIA, CARDINAL Lobelia cardinalis 

Spikes of lovely cardinal red in late summer up to three feet. Thrives in rich 
rather moist soil. Needs a winter mulch of leaves. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; 
Each 20c. 


LOBELIA, BLUE Lobelia syphilitica 
Valuable for its blue flower spikes up to two feet in August. Increases 
readily from self-sown seed. 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


LOBELIA, WHITE Lobelia syphilitica alba 
Pure white form of preceding. Choice. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


MARSH MARIGOLD Caltha palustris 

Glorious golden yellow flowers in May. Thick heart-shaped leaves up to 12 
inches that have provided many a country dish of ‘‘cowslip greens” in early 
spring. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 





26 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 


MAYAPPLE Podophyllum peltatum 

In nature grows abundantly in clumps. Waxy white flowers in May set be- 
tween two umbrella-like leaves about one foot high. Fragrant, edible yellow fruit 
in‘ssummer. 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


MEADOWRUE, TALL Thalictrum polygamum 
Fluffy heads of flowers on 4 or 5 foot stems in summer. Decorative fern- 
like foliage. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


MERRYBELLS Uvularia grandiflora 
Very effective when planted in clumps. Yellow flowers and attractive 
foliage in May up to 15 inches. 100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


MILKWEED, ORANGE Asclepias tuberosa 

- Also known as Butterfly-weed. Brilliant orange heads in late June and 
July: Common to northern sandy areas, but easily grown in open well drained 
soils. Up to 2 feet. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


PARTRIDGE BERRY Mitchella repens 

Mats of small green leaves with delicate pink flowers in spring followed by 
red berries in early fall. A good ground cover for shaded acid soil. Excellent 
for terrariums. 100 for $10.00; 12 tor $1.50; Each 20c. 


PASQUEFLOWER Anemone patens 

With us the first flower of spring. The tulip shaped light lavendar flowers 
appear before the last snowbanks are gone. The flowers appear very close to the 
ground but the flower stems continue to lengthen betore the flower has 
taded and by the time the silky plume of the seed heads appear the stems may 
be 10 or 12 inches high. Must have sandy or gravelly well drained soil, sun or 
light shade. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


PENSTEMON, SHELF-LEAF Penstemon grandiflorus 

Sparingly present in Wisconsin, but abundant farther west, this is a beau- 
tiful plant. Flowers as large as a foxglove of a beautiful shade of lavender-blue 
in June. Lovely glaucous blue leaves on a stout stem up to two feet. 12 for 
92.00; 3 for 65c; Hach 25c. 


PHLOX, PRAIRIE Phlox pilosa 
The brilliant dark rose phlox of our sandier soils. June flowering up to 15 
inches. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


PHLOX, WILD BLUE Phiox divaricata 

Though commonly seen in open woods we find a sunny or partly shaded 
situation results in stronger growth. Masses of delicate blue flowers in May. 
100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


PHLOX, WHITE Phlox divaricata alba 
White form of the preceding. 100 for $15.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 
PRAIRIE CLOVER Petalostemon villosum 


This is the densely hairy variety with the brilliant purple heads of flowers 
in late spring. A two foot plant. 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


PRAIRIE SMOKE Geum ciliatum 

Reddish flowers in spring from a generous tuft of leaves. From the fluffy 
seed heads comes the local name of Old Man’s Whiskers. Up to 12 inches. 12 
for $2.00; 3 for 50c; Each 20c. 


PUCCOON, YELLOW Lithospermum augustifolium 
Yellow flowers in late May, 6 inches. Give well drained soil and sun. 12 for 
$2:00; 3 for 65c; «Hach: 25c. 


RATTLESNAKE MASTER Eryngium aquaticum 
Yucca-like foliage, easily grown in open up to five feet. Flowers paler than 
border Eryngos. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


SHOOTING STAR Dodecatheon meadia 

_This lovely wild flower should be in every garden of natives. Clusters of 
white or pink cyclamen-like flowers in early June, on long stems. Sun or light 
shade and rich, well drained soil. They disappear in late summer. 1 : 
12 for $2.00; Each 20c. aN ae eee 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 27 


SNAKEROOT, WHITE Eupatorium urticaefolium 
Broad heads of white ageratum-like flowers in August and September. Up to 
3 feet. Makes a good cut flower. 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


SOLOMONS PLUME Smilacina racemosa 

Two foot stalks of creamy, plumy flowers in May. In July come the red- 
streaked berries. An excellent plant that increases to sizeable clumps. 12 for 
$2.00; Each 20c. 


SOLOMONS SEAL Polygonatum biflorum 
Gracefully arching two foot leafy stalk with green bells hanging underneath 
in May followed by pairs of blue berries. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


SOLOMONS SEAL, GIANT Polygonatum commutatum 
Taller, up to four feet, and a month later in flower and fruit than preceding. 
100 for $12.0U; 12 for $2.00; Hach 20c. 


SPIDERWORT, BLUE Tradescantia reflexa 

The beautiful blue flower that clothes the railroad right of way with beauty 
thru June here in the middle west. Does well in any sunny situation. 12 for 
$2.00; 3 for 50c; Each 20c. 


SPIDERWORT, RAINBOW Tradescantia bracteata 

Sky blue, dark blue, lavendar, purple, heliotrope, rose, and pink are the colors 
produced by this variable plant. Stems grow up to 10 inches but flowering starts 
at about 4 inches early in the spring. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


SPRING BEAUTY Claytonia virginica 

‘shat carpet of narrow leaves, about 4 inches high, bearing pink-striped 
flowers in late April, is Spring Beauty. Summer finds no trace of the plant. 
From bulbs, plant shallowly. 12 for $1.50; 3 for 40c; Each 15c. 


SPURGE, FLOWERING Euphorbia corollata 

Dainty sprays of white flowers that are cut for the flower market from their 
abundance in meadows here. Midsummer flowering. Three foot. 12 for $1.50; 
Each 15c. 


SQUIRREL CORN Dicentra canadensis 

Tiny pink and white flowers, foliage like Dutchmans Breeches. From a small 
yellow bulb just below surface of ground. Requires loose leaf mold soil. 100 for 
$8.00 Piz tor o1.25* Hach 15c. 


SUSAN, BLACK-EYED Rudbeckia hirta 
Bright yellow daisies with dark cone in center. Biennial but self sows freely. 
100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. : 


SUSAN, BROWN-EYED Rudbeckia triloba 

Always admired as it grows here. Tall, to five feet, with a profusion of small- 
er deep yellow flowers with brown cones. Self-perpetuating biennial. 100 for 
$10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


TRILLIUM, NODDING Trillium cernuum 

Flowers in late May on 18 inch stems. The graceful white flowers hang 
their heads down in a modest old-fashioned way. 100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; 
Each 15c. 


TRILLIUM, PRAIRIE Trillium recurvatum 
Brownish-red flowers rising from mottled leaves in late May. About 12 
inches tall. 100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


TRILLIUM, SHOWY Trilium grandiflorum 

Whether you grow but a single plant or naturalize them in thousands in 
open woods you will enjoy the white butterfly-like flowers that open here in 
early May. In ageing tney turn pinkish. Up to 18 inches. 1000 for $75.00; 100 
for $8.00; 12 for $1.25; Each 15c. 


TRILLIUM, SNOW Trillium nivale 

In a grand rush to flower the snow trillium pushes up thru lingering snows. 
White flowers and plants eventually up to 5 inches. Choice. 100 for $12.00; 12 
for $2.00; Each 20c. 





28 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 





TWINLEAF Jeffersonia diphylla 

A cousin to bloodroot. White flowers early in May after which the curiously 
divided leaves expand up to 15 inches. For well prepared leaf mold and shade. 
12 for $2.50; 3’ for 65c; Bach 25c. 


VIOLET, BI-COLOR OR PANSY Viola pedata bicolor 
A variety with the two upper petals dark purple and lower petals lavender. 
Culture same as for V. pedata. 100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


VIOLET, BIRDSFOOT Viola pedata 

One of our lovely sand country flowers. A profusion of flowers in varying 
shades of lavender, in May from tufts of finely cut leaves. Give this violet a 
medium acid, well drained soil and open sun. 100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 
15c. 


VIOLET, BLUE Viola cucullata 

The deep blue violet that children everywhere pick. In cultivation produces 
large leafy plants and spreads readily even in sunny gardens. 100 for $8.00; 12 
for $1.25; Each 15c. 


VIOLET, CANADA Viola canadensis 

Foot tall branching stems with white flowers tinted lavender on reverse of 
petals. Flowers in May with scattering bloom throughout summer and fall. 
100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


VIOLET, CONFEDERATE Viola cucullata var 
Large white flowers generally with a blue center, making the confederate 
colors: 12 Tor $1.25; Each 15c. 


VIOLET, DOG Viola conspersa 
Compact little plants with light blue flowers. 12 for $2.50; Each 20c. 
VIOLET, FRECKLES . Viola cucullata var 


The blue violet with the color spotted on a white background. Seedlings 
come true to parent color. 12 for $1.50; Each 20c. 


VIOLET, NUTTALLS Viola Nuttalli 
Lance-leaved, dusty gray-green. Nuttalls violet produces a profusion of yel- 
low flowers in early spring. 12 for $2.50; 3 for 65c; Each 25c. 


VIOLET, SWEET WHITE Viola pallens 
Round leaves and tiny fragrant white flowers. Roots very shallow and needs 
light shade and constant moisture to thrive. 100 for $10.00; 12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


VIOLET, TALL YELLOW Viola pubescens 
Branching stems one foot tall, yellow flowers in late May. 12 for $1.50; 
Each 20c. 


WINTERGREEN Gaultheria procumbens 
Leaves and berries are good chewing. Low ground cover for acid soil. Small 
clumps. 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 29 


Wisconsin Trees and Shrubs 


Name —- Botanical Name—Ultimate ht.—Notable for—Size—12—Each 
Appalachian Cherry—6 ft.—edible fruit—1 ft.—$3.50-50c 

Ash, Mountain—Sorbus americana—25 ft.—orange berries—3-5 ft.—$10.00-$1.00 
Ash, white—Fraxinus americana—75 ft —yellow fall color—3-5 ft—$6.00-60c 
Basswood—Tilia americana—60 ft.—scented flowers—3 ft.—$5.00-50c 

Birch, white—Betula papyrifera—25 ft.—white bark—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Bittersweet, Celastrus scandens—cl.—orange berries—2 yer.—$3.50-35c 
Bladdernut—Staphylea trifolia—8& ft.—peculiar fruit—2 ft.—$3.50-35c 
Buffaloberry—Sheperdia argentea—8 ft.—-silvery foliage—3-4 ft—$6.00-60c 
Butternut—Juglans cinera—60 ft.—edible nuts—1 ft.—$3.50-35c 
Buttonballbush—Cephalanthus occidentalis—7 ft.—glossy leaves—3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Cherry, black—prunus serotina—60 ft.—handsome foliage—2-3 ft.—$6.00-60c 
Cherry Birch—Betula lenta—50 ft.—aromatic bark—3 ft.—$5.00-50c 

Cherry, choke—Prunus virginiana—15 ft.—good bird food—2-3 ft.—$6.00-60c 
Cherry, pin—Prunus pennsyvanica—12 ft.—attractive fruit—3 ft.—$7.50-75c 


Chokeberry, Black—Aronia melanocarpa—4 ft.—white flowers—2-3 ft.—$5.00- 
50c 
Crabapple, American—Malus sp.—20 ft.—green fruit—3 ft —$7.50-75c 


Cranberry, highbush—Viburnum trilobum—9 ft.—scarlet fruit—18-24 in—$5.00- 
50c 
Dogwood, gray—Cornus racemosa—6 ft.—white fruit—2-3ft.—$5.00-50c 


Dogwood, silky—Cornus amomum—6 ft.—red bark—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Elderberry—Sambucus canadensis—7 ft.—edible berries—3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Elder, red—Sambucus pubens—7 ft.—red berries—2-3 ft.—$6.00-60c 
Elm, American—Ulmus americana—100 ft.—vase outline—5-6 ft.—$5.00-50c 
False Indigo—Amorpha fruticosa—3 ft.—blue flowers—18 in.—$3.50-35c 
Hazelnut—Corylus americana—5 ft.—edible nuts—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Holly, northern—TIlex verticillata—7 ft.—red berries—18-24 in.—$6.00-60c 
Indian Currant—Symphoricarpus orbiculatus—5 ft.—red fruits—18-24 in.—$4.00- 
40c : 
Jersey Tea—Ceanothus americanus—18-24 in—White flowers—1 ft.—$5 00-50c 
June Berry—Amelanchier canadensis—15 ft.—white flowers—2 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Maple, red—Acer rubrum—90 ft.—autumn foliage—2-3 ft —$5.00-50c 
Maple, silver—Acer saccharinum—$90 ft.—silvery leaves—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Maple, Mountain—Acer spicatum—15 ft.—reddish fruit—1 ft.—}$3.50-35c 
Maple, Sugar—Acer saccharum—60 ft.—shade tree—2 ft.—$3.50-35 
Nannyberry—Viburnum lentago—6 ft.—black fruits—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Ninebark—Physocarpus opulifolius—8 ft.—reddish pods—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Plum, wild—Prunus americana—10 ft.—white flowers—3-4 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Rose, meadow—Rosa blanda—4 ft —red fruits—2-3 ft.—$4.00-40c 
Rose, prairie—Rosa setigera—5 ft.—July flowering—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Sumac, smooth—Rhus glabra—6 ft.—plush fruits—3-4 ft—\}$5.00-50c 
Sumac, staghorn—Rhus typhina—20 ft.—autumn color—3-4 ft.—$5.00-50c 
Thornapple—Crataegus sp.—20 ft.—18-24 in.—$6.00-60c 
Viburnum, mapleleaved—Viburnum acerifolium—4 ft.—autumn color—1-2 ft.— 
$5.00-50c 
Wahoo, Evonymus atropurpurea—12 ft.—crimson fruit—2-3 ft $6.00-60c 
Walnut, black—Juglans nigra—100 ft.—edible nuts—2-3 ft.—$5.00-50c 
De ec aapmamelis virginiana—9 ft.—autumn flowers—18-24 in.—$6.00- 
Cc 
PAE: can supply other native trees, shrubs and vines also. Ask us about your 
needs. 
Trees and shrubs sent by express, charges collect. 








30 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 








HARDY PERENNIALS AND ROCK PLANTS 


We have found at various times a listing of perennials and rock garden 
plants in a tabular form very useful for quick reference when preparing land- 
scape plans. 


Unless otherwise indicated prices are 12 of a variety for $3.00; 3 for 75c; each 30c 
(* indicates longer period of bloom than one month) 


Name -- Use—Height—Flower—Color—Month 


Achillea millefolium roseum—Border—3 ft.—deep rose—June*. 
Aconitum Fischeri (Monkshood)—border—5 ft.—blue—Sept. 
Ajuga reptans (Bugleweed)—ground cover—8 in.—blue—May. 


100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


Althaea rosea (Hollyhock)—Border—6é ft.—various—June%*. 
100 for $12.00; 12 for $2.50; Each 25c. 


Alyssum saxatile compactum—rock garden—9 in.—yellow—May. 
Anchusa myosotidiflora—rock garden—12 in.—blue—May. 

Anemone pulsatilla (Windflower)—rock garden—12 in.—purple—April. 
Anthemis tinctoria (Golden Marguerite)—border—3 ft.—yellow—June*. 
Aquilegia alpina—rock garden—12 in.—blue—July. 

Aquilegia Crimson Star—border—2 ft.—red and white—May. 

Aquilegia Long Spurred Hybrids—border—214 ft.—various—May. 
Arabis albida—rock garden—8 in.—white—May. 

Arabis procurrens—rock garden—10 in.—white—May. 

Armeria laucheana (Thrift)—rock garden—8 in.—pink—June™*. 
Artemesia lactiflora (White Mugwort)—border—4 ft.—white—Aug.* 
Aster acris nana—border—12 in —light blue—Sept. 

Aster Burbanks Charming—border—4 ft.—light pink—October. 

Aster hybridus luteus—border—21% ft.—yellow—Sept. 


3 for 95c; Each 385c. 


Aster novae-angliae (New England)—border—4 ft.—various—Sept. 
Baptisia australis—border—4 ft.—blue—June. 

Bocconia cordata (Plume Poppy)—border——7 ft.—Cream—July. 

Boltonia latisquama—border—5 ft —light pink—Sept. 

Callirhoe involucrata (Poppy-mallow)—rock garden—12 in.—red—June”*. 
Campanula carpatica—border—15 in.—blue—June%*. 

Campanula medium (Canterbury Bells)—border—2 ft.—various—June. 


12 for $2.00; Each 20c. ; 


Campanula persicifolia (Peachlvd-bells)—hborder—2% ft.—blue—June%*. 
Cerastium tomentosum (Snow-in-Summer)—rock garden—10 in.—white—May. 
Chrysanthemum Amoskeag—border—15 in.—bronze—Oct. 

Chrysanthemum Barbara Cummings—border—24 in.—yellow—Sept. 
Chrysanthemum Barnegat—border—18 in.—light yellow—Oct. 

Chrysanthemum Crimson Splendor—border—18 in.—Ilt. red—Oct. 
Chrysanthemum Francis Whittlesly—border—18 in.—bronze—Sept. 
Chrysanthemum Pohatcong—border—20 in.—lt. pink—Oct. 

Chrysanthemum Ruth Hatton—border—18 in.—white—Oct. 

Chrysanthemum Seminole—border—18 in.—white—Sept. 


All Chrysanthemums above from pots: 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


Chrysanthemum morifolium—border—2% ft.—Pink—Oct. 
Clematis recta—border—3s ft.—-white—June*. 

Coreopsis lanceolata—border—30 in.—yellow—June%*. 
Delphinium belladonna—border—30 in.—light blue—June*. 
Delphinium bellamosum—border—30 in.—dark blue—June*. 
Delphinium Pacific Hybrids—border—4 ft.—various—June*. 


Seedlings from pots—will blossom this fall. Mixed colors. 
12 for $1.50; Each 15c. 


Herb Magic and Hardy Plants 31 





Delphinium Tooles Summer Cloud—border—4 ft.—white—June%*. 
12 for $3.50; 3 for 95c; Each 35c. 


Dianthus arvernensis—rock—garden—3 in.—pink—May. 

Dianthus barbatus (Sweet William)—border—18 in.—various—June. 
Dianthus deltoides (Maiden Pink)—rock garden—8 in.—dark pink—June. 
Dianthus plumarius (Grass Pink)—border—15 in.—various—June. 

Dicentra eximia (Plumy Bleedingheart)—rock garden—18 in.—pink—May*. 
Dicentra spectabilis (Bleedingheart)—hborder—2 ft.—pink—May. 


Year old plants—12 for $3.50; 3 for 95c; Each 35c. 


Dictamnus fraxinella (Gasplant)—border—3 ft.—rose-pink—July. 
Digitalis ambigua—-border—2 ft.—yellow—June. 

Digitalis purpurea (Foxglove)—border—3 ft.—various—June. 
Dracocephalum Ruyschiana—border—2 ft.—blue—June. 


Echinacea purpurea (Purple coneflower)—border—4 ft.—purple—July*. 
Eryngium amethystinum—border—18 in.—blue—July*. 


Filipendula hexapetala—border—3 ft.—white—June. 
Filipendula rubra (Queen of the Prairie)—border—5 ft.—pink—July. 
Filipendula ulmaria variegata—border—2 ft.—white—June. 


Gaillardia grandiflora—border—3 ft.—red and yellow—June™*. 
Galium verum (Bedstraw)—rock garden—12 in.—yellow—July. 
Gypsophila paniculata—border—3 ft.—white—June™*. 
Gypsophila repens—rock garden—6 in.—Ilt. pink—July*. 


Helianthemum Ben Nevis—rock garden—12 in.—yellow—June. 
Helianthemum Clara Middleton—rock garden—12 in —orange—June. 
Helianthemum Fireball—rock garden—12 in.—dbl. red—June. 
Helianthemum rhodanthe—rock garden—12 in.—pink—June. 
Hemerocallis flava (Lemon Lily)—border—2% ft —yellow—June. 
Hemerocallis fulva (Orange Lily)—border—3 ft.—orange—July. 
Hemerocallis Gold Dust—border—2% ft.—dark yellow—June. 
Hemerocallis Kwanso—border—4 ft.—dbl. orange—July. 

Heuchera sanguinea (Coral Bells)—rock garden—15 in.—red—June”*. 
Hibiscus moscheutos (Marshmallow)—border—6 ft.—rose-pink—July*. 
Hosta japonica (Narrow-lvd. Funkia)—border—2 ft.—lavender—August”*. 


Iberis sempervirens Little Gem—rock garden—6 in.—white—May. 
Tris foliosa—rock garden—18 in.—blue—June. 

Iris pseudacorus (Yellow Flag)—border—3 ft.—yellow—June. 
Iris sibirica (Siberian Iris) —border—3 ft.—dark blue—June. 


Lamium maculatum (Silvermint)—border—12 in.—rose—June. 

Linum perenne (Blue Flax)—border—2 ft.—blue—June%*. 

Lychnis chalcedonica (Maltese Cross)—border—2'% ft.—scarlet—June%*. 
Lysimachia fraseri—border—5 ft.—yellow—July. 

Lysimachia punctata—border—3 ft.—yellow—June. 


Nepeta mussini—border—2 ft.—lav. blue—May*. 


Papaver orientale (Oriental Poppy)—border—2 ft.—red—June. 
Papaver Olympia—border—18 in.—red—June. 
Phymosia remota—border—5 ft.—light pink—August. 


Phlox Africa—border—2% ft.—carmine-red—July. 

Phlox Bridesmaid—border—3 ft.—white, crimson eye—July. 
Phlox Commander—border—2 ft.—Crimson-red—July. 
Phlox E. I. Farrington—border—2 ft.—salmon-pink—July. 
Phlox Louise—border—18 in.—light salmon—July. 

Phlox Miss Lingard—border—2 ft.—white—June. 

Phlox Mrs. Jenkins—border—2'% ft.—white—July. 


= 


32 The Tooles of Garry-nee-Dule, Baraboo, Wisconsin 





Phlox Siebold—border—2 ft.—salmon pink—July. 
Phlox Widar—border—2¥, ft.—violet—July. 


For Phlox divaricata and Phlox pilosa see native plant section. 


Phlox subulata alba—rock garden—5 in—white—May. 

Phlox subulata atropurpurea—rock garden—5 in.—deep red—May. 
Phlox subulata Blue Hill—rock garden—5 in.—blue—May. 

Phlox subulata Fairy—rock garden—5 in.—lavender—May. 

Phlox subulata rosea—rock garden—d in.—-rose-pink—May. 
Primula polyantha—rock garden-—8 in.—various—May. 
Platycodon grandiflorum—border—2 ft.—blue—July*. 

Pyrethrum corymbosum—border—214 ft.—white—July. 
Pyrethrum James Kelway—border—2 ft.—red-—June. 

Pyrethrum roseum—border—2'% ft.—pink—June. 


Saponaria ocymoides—rock garden—4 in.—pink—May*. 
Scabiosa Fischeri—border—3 ft.—dark lavender—Aug. 
Sedum acre—rock garden—3 in.—yellow—June. 

Sedum album—rock garden—5 in.—white—June. 

Sedum Ellacombianum---rock garden-—6 in.—yellow—July. 
Sedum Ewersi—rock garden—6 in.—rose—Aug. 

Sedum Middendorffianum—rock garden—8 in.—yellow—Aug. 
Sedum reflexum—rock garden—6 in.—yellow—June. 

Sedum sarmentosum—rock garden—4 in.—yellow—June. 
Sedum spectbile—border—15 in —pink—Sept. 

Sedum spurium coccineum—rock garden—6 in.—lt. red—July. 
Sedum ternatum—rock garden—4 in.—white—May. 


All Sedums 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


Sempervivum Brauni—rock garden—green rosettes tipped brown. 
Sempervivum globiferum—rock garden—light green rosettes. 
Sempervivum Tooles Seedlings—Variously shaded large rosettes. 


All Sempervivums: 12 for $2.00; Each 20c. 


Stachys lanata—border—12 in.—rose-pink—June. 
Statice dumosa—border—12 in.—silver gray—July. 
Statice latifolia—border—2 ft.—lavender— Aug. 


Thymus angustifolius—rock garden—trailing—narrow-leaved. 
Thymus citriodorus—rock garden—8 in.—lemon-scented. 

Thymus herba-baronna—rock garden-—creeping—caraway-scented. 
Thymus maculata—rock garden—4 in.—shiny leaves. 

Thymus serpyllum—rock garden—4 in.—Mother-of-Thyme. 

Thymus serpyllum aureus—rock garden—8 in.—golden leaves. 
Thymus serpyllum coccineus—rock garden—4 in.—crimson flowering. 
Thymus serp. lanuginosus—rock garden—4 in.—wooly-leaved. 

Thymus serp. roseus—rock garden—4 in.—rose flowers... 

Tunica saxifraga—rock garden—6 in.—pink—July. 


Verbena pulchella—rock garden—6 in.—pink, white stripe—May”*. 
Veronica incana—border—12 in.—blue—July. 
Veronica prostrata—rock garden—4 in.—blue—May. 
Veronica spicata—border—18 in.—blue—June. 
Veronica spicata rosea—border—18 in.—pink—June. 
Vinca minor—Bowles variety—-ground cover—5 in.—blue—April. 
Viola Jersey Gem—border—6 in.—violet—May”*. 
Viola odorata—border—6 in.—blue—May. 
Viola Rosina—border—8% in. rose-pink—May”*. 
100 for $10.00; 12 for $200; Bach 20c. 


ORDER BLANK ©- 


The TOOLES of Garry -nee-Dule Paid Reanim meen 


BARABOO, WISCONSIN Received |). hs. tcc Teter 














Pu TUL © er eee ch asia soe UE aah ok Sal MRS TS he Oe ye 
Write Plainly 
Pearl Va et Ee oh et wick TOR IE Se RS dO a 
Avenue or Street and Number or R. F. D. No. 
POSED IICE et oe Reet ee ee ee Statenia? tenes. cee, ee ee 
Express Office (if different from Postoffice) ............0.......ccceceeeee 
ASIOUNULLENCLOSEOth ss. © iat Ne PJATOR ES Sai. cc eee hal. eee Lae 
Quantity DESCRIPTION Price 





[OVER] 

















Quantity | DESCRIPTION 





Kindly write below the names and addresses of Flower Lovers you know who might 
appreciate and use a copy of our catalog of Herb Plants and Seeds, Herb Products, 
Wild Flowers and Perennials. 
The TOOLES of Garry-nee-Dule. 


NAME ADDRESS 


—— ts ee 5 








