Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/claytonsquakercoOOclayrich 


/ 


CLAYTON'S 

Quaker  Cook-Book, 

BEING   A 

PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  THE  CULINARY  ART 

ADAPTED   TO   THE   TASTES    AND  WANTS 

OF    ALL    CLASSES. 


With  plain   and  easily   understood  directions  for  the  preparation  of  every 

variety  of  food   in  the   most  attractive  forms.     Comprising  the 

result  of  a  life-long  experience  in  catering  to  a 

host  of  highly  cultivated  tastes. 


BY- 


-^==^.^.j^/^^i::- 


San  Pi^angisgo: 

WOMEN'S  CO-OPERATIVE   PRINTINO  OFFICE. 

1883. 


Copyrighted  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  A.  D.  1883,  by  H.  J.  Clayton. 


PREFACE. 


One  of  the  sacred  writers  of  the  olden  time  is  reportei  to  have 
said:  "  Of  the  making  of  manj'  books,  there  is  no  end."  This  re- 
mark will,  to  a  great  extent,  apply  to  the  number  of  works  published 
upon  the  all  important  subject  of  Cookery.  The  oft-repeated  saying, 
attributed  to  old  sailors,  that  the  Lord  sends  victuals,  and  the  oppo- 
site party,  the  cooks,  is  familiar  to  all. 

Notwithstanding  the  great  number  and  variety  of  so-called  cook- 
books extant,  the  author  of  this  treatise  on  the  culintiry  art,  thoroughly 
imjiressed  with  the  belief  that  there  is  ample  room  for  one  more  of  a 
thoroughly  practical  and  every  day  life,  common  sense  character— in 
every  way  adapted  to  the  wants  of  the  community  at  large,  and  looking 
especially  to  the  preparation  of  healthful,  palatable,  appetizing  and 
nourishing  food,  both  plain  and  elaborately  compounded — and  hi  the 
preparation  of  which  the  very  best,  and,  at  the  same  time,  the  most 
economical  material  is  made  use  of,  has  ventui-ed  to  present  this  new 
candidate  for  the  public  approval.  The  preparation  of  this  work 
embodies  the  result  of  more  than  thirty  years  personal  and  practical 
experience.  The  author  taking  nothing  for  granted,  has  thoroughly 
tested  the  value  and  entire  correctness  of  every  direction  he  has  given 
in  these  pages.  While  carefully  catering  to  the  varied  tastes  of  the 
mass,  everything  of  an  unhealthf ul,  deleterious,  or  even  doubtful  char- 
acter, has  been  carefully  excluded;  and  all  directions  are  given  in  the 
plainest  style,  so  ks  to  be  readily  understood,  and  fully  comprehended 
by  all  classes  of  citizens. 

The  writer  having  been  born  and  brought  up  on  a  farm,  and  being 
in  his  younger  days  of  a  delicate  constitution,  instead  of  joining  in 
the  rugged  work  of  the  field,  remained  at  home  to  aid  and  assist  his 
mother  in  the  culinary  labors  of  the  household.  It  was  in  this  home- 
sohool — in  its  way  one  of  the  best  in  the  world,  that  he  acquired  not 
only  a  practical  knowledge  of  what  he  desires  to  fully  impart  to  others, 
but  a  taste  for  the  preparation,  in  its  most  attractive  forms,  of  every 
variety  of  palatable  and  health-giving  food.  It  was  his  early  training 
in  this  homely  school  that  induced  him  to  make  this  highly  important 
matter  an  all-absorbing  theme  and  the  subject  of  his  entire  life  study. 
His  governing  rule  in  this  department  has  ever  been  the  injunction 
laid  down  by  the  chief  of  the  Apostles:  "Try  all  things;  prove  all 
things;  and  hold  fast  that  which  is  good." 


INTRODUCTORY. 


A  Beief  Histoby  of  the  Culinary  Art,  and  its  Principal  Methods. 

Cooking  is  defined  to  be  the  art  of  dressing,  compounding  and 
preparing  food  by  the  aid  of  heat.  Ancient  writers  upon  the  subject 
are  of  opinion  that  the  practice  of  this  art  followed  immediately  after 
the  discovery  of  fire,  and  that  it  was  at  first  an  imitation  of  the 
natural  processes  of  mastication  and  digestion.  In  proof  of  the  an- 
tiquity of  this  art,  mention  is  made  of  it  in  many  places  in  sacred  writ. 
Among  these  is  notably  the  memoirs  of  the  Children  of  Israel  while 
journeying  in  the  wilderness,  and  their  hankering  after  the  "flesh- 
pots  of  Egypt." 

Among  the  most  enlightened  people  of  ancient  times, — cooking,  if 
not  regarded  as  one  of  the  fine  arts,  certainly  stood  in  the  foremost 
rank  among  the  useful.  It  was  a  highly  honored  vocation,  and  many 
of  the  most  eminent  and  illustrious  characters  of  Greece  and  Rome 
did  not  disdain  to  practice  it.  Among  the  distinguished  amateurs  of 
the  art,  in  these  modern  times,  may  be  mentioned  Alexander  Dumas, 
who  plumed  himself  more  upon  his  ability  to  cook  famous  dishes 
than  upon  his  world-wide  celebrity  as  the  author  of  the  most  popular 
novels  of  his  day. 

In  the  state  in  which  man  finds  most  of  the  substances  used  for 
food  they  are  difficult  of  digestion.  By  the  application  of  heat  some 
of  these  are  rendered  more  palatable  and  more  easily  digested,  and, 
consequently,  that  assimilation  so  necessary  to  the  sustenance  of  life, 
and  the  repair  of  the  constant  waste  attendant  upon  the  economy  of 
the  human  system.  The  application  of  heat  to  animal  and  vegetable 
substances,  for  the  attainment  of  this  end,  constitutes  the  basis  of  the 
science  of  cookery. 

Broiling,  which  was  most  probably  the  mode  first  resorted  to  in 
the  early  practice  of  this  art,  being  one  of  the  most  common  of  its 
various  operations,  is  quite  simple  and  efficacious.  It  is  especially 
adapted  to  the  wants  of  invalids,  and  persons  of  delicate  appetites. 
Its  effect  is  to  coagulate,  in  the  quickest  manner,  upon  the  surface 
the  albumen  of  the  meat,  effectually  sealing  up  its  pores,  and  thus 
retaining  the  rich  juices  and  delicate  flavor  that  would  otherwise 
escape  and  be  lost. 

Roasting  comes  next  in  order,  and  for  this  two  conditions  are 
essentially  requisite — a  good,  brisk  fire,  and  constant  basting.  As  in 
the  case  of  broiling,  care  should  be  taken  at  the  commencement  to 


VI.  INTRODUCTORY. 

coagulate  the  albumen  ou  the  surface  as  speedily  as  possible.  Next 
to  broiling  and  stewing,  this  is  the  most  economical  mode  of  cooking 
meats  of  all  kinds. 

Baking  meat  is  in  very  many  respects  objectionable— and  should 
never  be  resorted  to  when  other  modes  of  cooking  are  available,  as  it 
reverses  the  order  of  good,  wholesome  cookery,  in  beginning  with  a 
slow  and  finishing  with  a  high  temperature.  Meats  cooked  in  this 
manner  have  never  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  roast,  nor  are  they  so 
easily  digested. 

Bdiling  is  one  of  the  easiest  and  simplest  methods  of  cooking, 
but  in  its  practice  certain  conditions  must  be  carefully  observed.  The 
fire  must  be  attended  to,  so  'as  'to  properly  regulate  the  heat.  The 
utensils  used  for  this  purpose,  which  should  be  large  enough  to  con- 
tain sufficient  water  to  competely  cover  the  meat,  should  be  scrupu- 
lously clean,  and  provided  with  a  close-fitting  cover.  AH  scum  should 
be  removed  as  fast  as  it  rises,  which  will  be  facilitated  by  frequent 
additions  of  small  quantities  of  cold  water,  Difl'ereuce  of  ojjinion 
exists  among  cooks  as  to  the  propriety  of  putting  meals  in  cold  water, 
and  gradually  raising  to  the  boiling  point,  or  plauging  into  water 
already  boiling.  My  own  experience,  unless  in  the  preparation  of 
'soups,  is  decidedly  in  favor  of  the  latter.  •-•  Baron  Liebig,  the  highest 
authority  in  such  matters,  decidedly  favors  this  process.  As  in  .the 
case  of  roasting,  the  application  of  boiling  water  coagulates  the  albu- 
men, thus  retaining  the  juices  of  the  meat  that  would  be  dissolved  in 
the  liquid. 

Stewing  is  generally  resorted  to  in  the  preparation  of  made 
dishes,  and  almost  every  variety  of  meats  are  adapted  to  this  method. 
The  better-the  quality  of  the  meats,  as  a  matter  of?,  course,  the  better 
^e  dish  prepared  inthiswsiy;  but,  by  careful  stewing,  the  coarser  and 
rougher  quality  of  meats  can  be  rendered  soft,  tender  and  digestible, 
a:  desirable  object  not  generally  attained  in  other,  modes.  Add  pieces 
:Of  meat,  trimmings,  scraps  and  bones,  the  latter  containing  a  large 
•amount  of  palatabl*^  and  nourishing  gelatine,  may  be  thus  utilized 
in  the  preparation  of  wholesome  and  appetiising  dishes  at  a  compara- 
tively trifling  cost. 


■  An   Ext>LANATORY   WoED   IN    CoNCLUSIO'N.  •  -•' 

.  ■'    •  ..> 

As  a  matter  of  strict  justice  to  all  parties  concerned,  the  anthor 

of  this  work  deems  it  proper  to  explain  his  reasons  for  mentioning  in 

the  body  of  some  of  the  recipes  given  in  this  book,  the  places  at  which 

the  purest  and  best  aricles  used  are  to  be  purchased.     This  recom- 


INTRODCrCTORY.  Vll. 

meudation  is,  in  every  instance,  based  upon  a  thorough  and  complete 
personal  test  of  every  article  commended.  In  these  degenerate  days  of 
wholesale  adulteration  of  almost  every  article  of  food  and  drink,  it  is 
eminently  just  and  proper  that  the  public  should  be  advised  where 
the  genuine  is  to  be  procured.  Without  desiring  to  convert  his  book 
into  a  mere  advertising  medium,  the  author  deems  it  not  out  of  place 
to  give  the  names  of  those  dealers  in  this  city  of  whom  such  articles 
as  are  essential  in  the  preparation  of  many  of  the  recipes  given  in 
these  pages  may  be  procured — of  the  most  reliable  quality,  and  at 
reasonable  rates. 


INDEX. 


Soups. 

Stock I 

General  Directions  for  making  Soup 2 

Calfs-Head  Soup 3 

Ox-Tail  Soup 3 

Okra  Soup          3 

Chicken  Gumbo .    4 

Fresh  Oyster  Soup   4 

Fish  Chowder  ....    5 

Clam  Soup 5 

Clam  Chowder .  6 

Bean  Soup    6 

Dry  Split-Pea  Soup 6 

Tomato  Soup . 7 

Celery  Soup 7 

Pepper-Pot 8 

Egg-Balls  for  Soup 8 

Nudels 8 

Fish. 

Boiled  Fish 9 

Fried  Fish lo 

Broiling  Fish 10 

Fried  Oysters 10 

Oysters  in  Batter 10 

Oyster  Patties      11 

Stewed  Lobsters  or  Crabs Mi 

Roast,  Boiled,  Baked,  Broiled  and  Fried. 

Retaining  the  Juices  in  Cooking  Meats 12 

Roast  Pig 13 

To  Roast  Turkeys  and  Chickens 13 

Roasting  Beef  ......    15 

A  good  way  to  Roast  a  Leg  of  Mutton 15 


Clayton's  Mode  of  Cooking  Canvass-Back  Ducks 15 

Clayton's  Mode  of  Cooking  California  Quail  or  Young  Chickens 16 

To  Cook  Boned  Turkey 17 

To  Bone  a  Turkey 18 

To  Cook  Ducks  or  Chickens,  Louisiana  Style 18 

Breast  of  Lamb  and  Chicken,  Breaded     19 

Scrapple  or  Haggis  Loaf '9 

Pig's-Feet  and  Hocks  20 

To  Cook  a  Steak  California  Style,  1849-50   21 

A  Good  Way  to  Cook  a  Ham 21 

Beefsteak  Broiled   21 

Beefsteak  with  Onions 22 

Corned-Beef  and  how  to  Cook  it 22 

Spiced  Veal 22 

Calves'  Liver  with  Bacon    23 

Calves'  or  Lambs'  Liver  Fried   . 23 

Spiced  Beef .• 23 

Stews,  Salads,  and  Salad-Dressing. 

Terrapin  Stew 24 

Stewed  Chicken  Cottage  Style 25 

Stewed  Tripe 25 

Chicken-Salad 25 

Clayton's  Celebrated  California  Salad  Dressing 26 

Salad  Flavoring 27 

Eggs  and  Omelettes. 

Boiling  Eggs 27 

Scrambled  Eggs 27 

To  Fry  Eggs 28 

Oyster  Omelette 28 

Ham  Omelette 28 

Cream  Omelette 28 

Spanish  Omelette 29 

Omelette  for  Dessert 29 


INDEX.  XH 

Vegetables. 

Beans,  Baked  [See  Bean  Soup] 6 

Baked  Tomatoes 30 

Raw   Tomatoes 3^ 

Cucumbers 30 

Boiled  Cabbage 30 

To  Cook  Cauliflower 31 

To  Cook  Young  Green  Peas 31 

A  Good  Way  to  Cook  Beets 31 

Mashed  Potatoes  and  Turnips 32 

Boiled  Onions 32 

Stewed  Corn    32 

Stewed  Corn  and  Tomatoes 32 

Succotash 33 

Saratoga  Fried  Potatoes 33 

Salsify  or  Oyster-Plant 34 

Egg-Plant 34 

To  Boil  Green  Corn 35 

Boiled  Rice 35 

Stewed  Okra 35 

Bread,  Cakes,  Pies,  Puddings  and  Pastry. 
Solid  and  Liquid  Sauce. 

Quick  Bread 36 

Quick  Muffins 36 

Brown  Bread 36 

Graham  Rolls 36 

Mississippi  Corn-Bread 37 

Nice  Light  Biscuit 37 

Clayton's  Corn-Bread 37 

Johnny  Cake 37 

Sweet  Potato  Pone .38 

Ginger  Bread 38 

Molasses  Ginger  Bread 38 

Quaker  Cake 38 


Xii.  IJJDEX. 

Pound  Cake 38 

Chocolate  Cake.— Jelly  Cake 38 

Currant  Cake ... 39 

Cream  Cup-Cake 39 

Jumbles    39 

Sweet  Cake 39 

Sponge  Cake 40 

Ginger  Snaps   . .      ...    40 

A  Nice  Cake 40 

Icing  for  Cake  40 

Chocolate  Icing  ....    41 

Lemon  Pie 41 

English  Plum  Pudding 42 

Baked  Apple  Pudding 42 

Bread  Pudding 42 

Baked  Corn-Meal  Pudding 42 

Corn-Starch  Pudding   43 

Delmonico's  Pudding 43 

Peach  Ice-Cream 43 

Apple  Snow 44 

Strawberry  Sauce 44 

Farina  Pudding 44 

Snow  Pudding 45 

Fruit  Pudding 45 

Charlotie-a-Russe 46 

Solid  Sauce 46 

Liquid  Sauce 46 

Currant  or  Grape  Jelly 46 

Calf  s  Foot  Jelly     47 

Ice  Cream ^.  .,47 

Orange  Ice i . .  48 

Lemon  Jelly 48 

Wine  Jelly 48 

Peach  Jelly 48 

Roman  Punch   49 


Miscellaneous. 

Butter  and  Buiter-Making 49 

A  Word  of  Advice  to  Hotel  and  Restaurant  Cooks 51 

Clayton's  California  Golden  Cofiee 53 

The  very  Best  Way  to  Make  Chocolate 54 

Old  Virginia  Egg-Nogg   55 

Clayton's  Popular  Sandwich  Paste.    .,      55 

Welsh  Rabbit 5^ 

Delicate  Waffles 57 

Force-Meat  Balls 57 

Beef  Tea 57 

Crab  Sandwich 58 

Pork. — The  kind  to  Select,  and  the  best  Mode  of  Curing 58 

Lard,  Home-Made 59 

Sausage,  New  Jersey 60 

Pot-Pie 60 

Curried  Crab 61 

To  Toast  Bread     61 

Cream  Toast 61 

Fritters    61 

Hash 62 

Hashed  Potato  with  Eggs  62 

Macaroni,  Baked 62 

Drawn  Butter ; 63 

Spiced  Currants 63 

Canning  Fruits — Best  Mode  of 63 

Quinces,  Prepairing  for  Canning  or  Preserving 64 

Clayton's  Monmouth  Sauce . .  .65 

Mustard.— To  Prepare  for  the  Table 65 

Mint  Sauce 65 

Eggs  ought  never  be  Poached '. 66 

Sunny-Side  Roast 66 

Clayton's  Spanish  Omelette 66 

Plain  Omelette 67 

Clam  Fritters 67 


XIV.  INDEX. 

Fried  Tripe ...   67 

Ringed  Potatoes 67 

New  Potatoes,  Boiled 67 

Fried  Tomatoes 68 

Squash  and  Corn.— Spanish  Style 68 

Pickles 68 

Nice  Picklette 69 

Pickled  Tripe 69 

To  Cook  Grouse  or  Prairie  Chicken 69 

Brains  and  Sweet-Bread 7° 

Stewed  Spare-Ribs  of  Pork 70 

Broiled  Oysters   7  ^ 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Custard 7^ 

Fig  Pudding 7^ 

Fried  Apples   72 

Clayton's  Oyster  Stew 72 

Boiled  Celery   72 

Selecting  Meats 7^ 

Rice  Pudding. — Rebecca  Jackson's     73 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding 73 

Codfish  Cakes 73 

Pickled  Grapes 74 

Forced  Tomatoes 74 

Broiled  Flounders  or  Smelts 74 

Onions 75 

Singeing  Fowls 75 

Taste  and  Flavor — Secret  Tests  of, 75 

Ware  for  Ranges. — How  to  Choose 7^ 

Herbs. — Drying  for  Seasoning 7 

Roaches,  Flies  and  Ants. — How  to  Destroy 76 

Tinware.- -To  Clean 77 

Iron  Rust 77 

Mildew 77 

Oysters  Roasted  on  Chafing-Dish 77 

Cod-Fish,  Family  Style 77 

Cod-Fish,  Philadelphia  Style  78 


INDKX.  XV. 

Advertisements. 

Jersey  Farm  Dairy 8i 

W.  T.  Coleman  &  Co.,  Royal  Baking  Powder 82 

Quade  &  Straut,  Choice  Family  Groceries 83 

T.  H.  McMenomy,  Beef,  Mutton,  Veal 83 

Arpad  Haraszihy  &  Co.,  California  Wines  and  Brandies 84 

Will  &  Finck,  Cutlers 85 

Wilton  &  Cortelyou,  Dairy  Produce 86 

John  Bayle,  Tripe,  Calves'  Heads,  Feet 87 

Palace  Hotel,  John  Sedgwick,  Manager    88 

Deming  Bros.,  Millers  and  Grain  Dealers 89 

E,  R.  Durkee  &  Co's  Standard  Aids  to  Good  Cooking 90 

Bertin  &  Lepori,  Coffee,  Tea  and  Spices 91 

B.  M.  Atchinson  &  Co.  Butter,  Cheese,  Eggs,  Lard   92 

Kohler  &  Frohling,  California  Wines  and  Brandies     93 

Richards  &  Harrison,  Agents  for  English  Groceries 94 

Robert  F.  Bunker,  Hams,  Bacon 95 

Edouart's  Art  Gallery 96 

E.  R.  Perrin's  Quaker  Dairy 97 

Hills  Bros.,  Coffee,  Teas  and  Spices 98 

Emil  A.  Engelberg,  German  Bakery  &  Confectionery 98 

A.  W.  Fink,  Butter,  Cheese,  Eggs 99 

J.  Gundlach  &  Co.,  California  Wines  and  Brandies icx) 

Lebenbaum,  Goldberg  &  Bowen,  Grocers loi 

Women's  Co-operative  Printing  Office 102 

W.  W.  Montague  &  Co.,  French  Ranges 103 

Mark  Sheldon,  Sewing  Machines  and  Supplies 104 


CLAVTON'S 


Quaker  Cook:=Book: 


">■ 


30UPg, 


Stock. 

The  foundation — so  to  speak — and  first  great  essential  in  com- 
pounding every  variety  of  appetizing,  and  at  the  same  time 
wholesome  and  nourishing  soups,  is  the  stock.  In  this  depart- 
ment, as  in  some  others,  the  French  cooks  have  ever  been  pre- 
eminent. It  was  said  of  this  class  in  the  olden  time  that  so 
constantly  was  the  "stock" — as  this  foundation  has  always  been 
termed — replenished  by  these  cooks,  that  their  rule  was  never 
to  see  the  bottom  of  the  soup  kettle.  It  has  long  been  a  fixed 
fact  that  in  order  to  have  good  soup  you  must  first  have  good 
stock  to  begin  with.  To  make  this  stock,  take  the  liquor  left 
after  boiling  fresh  meat,  bones,  (large  or  small,  cracking  the 
larger  ones  in  order  to  extract  the  marrow,)  bones  and  meat  left 
over  from  a  roast  or  broil,  and  put  either  or  all  of  these  in  a 
large  pot  or  soup  kettle,  with  water  enough  to  cover.  Let  these 
simmer  slowly — never  allowing  the  water  to  boil — taking  care, 
however,  to  keej)    the   vessel  covere(i — stirring   frequently,  and 


2  Clayton  s  Quaker  Cook-Book. 

pouring  in  occasionally  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  skimming  off 
the  scum.  It  is  only  where  fresh  meat  is  used  that  cold  water 
is  applied  at  the  commencement;  for  cooked  meat,  use  warm. 
The  bones  dissolved  in  the  slow  simmering,  furnish  the  gelatine 
so  essential  to  good  stock.  One  quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of 
meat  is  the  average  rule.  Six  to  eight  hours  renders  it  fit  for  use. 
Let  stand  over  night;  skim  off  the  fat;  put  in  an  earthen  jar, 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Every  family  should  keep  a  jar  of  the 
stock  constantly  on  hand,  as  by  doing  so  any  kind  of  soup  may 
be  made  from  it  in  from  ten  to  thirty  minutes. 

General  Directions   for   Making  Soup. 

Having  prepared  your  stock  according  to  the  foregoing  direc- 
tions, take  a  sufficient  quantity,  when  soup  is  required,  and  sea- 
son, as  taste  may  dictate,  with  sweet  and  savory  herbs — sal- 
picant,  celery  salt,  or  any  other  favorite  seasoning — adding 
vegetables  cut  fine,  and  let  the  same  boil  slowly  in  a  covered 
vessel  until  thoroughly  cooked.  If  preferred,  after  seasoning 
the  stock,  it  may  be  thickened  with  either  barley,  rice,  tapioca, 
sago,  vermicelli,  macaroni,  farina  or  rice  flour.  A  roast  onion 
is  sometimes  added  to  give  richness  and  flavor.  It  is  a  well- 
known  fact  that  soups  properly  prepared  improve  in  flavor  and 
are  really  better  on  the  day  after  than  when  first  made.  By 
substituting  different  materials,  garnitures,  flavorings  and  condi- 
ments, of  which  an  endless  variety  is  available,  the  intelligent 
housewife  may  be  able  to  furnish  a  different  soup  for  every  day 
of  the  year.  In  following  these,  as  in  all  other  directions  for 
every  department  of  cookery,  experience  will,  after  all,  be  found 
the  great  teacher  and  most  valuable  aid  and  adjunct  to  the 
learner  of  the  art. 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook-Book.  3 

Calves'-Head  Soup. 

Take  a  calfs  head  of  medium  size;  wash  clean,  and  soak  it 
an  hour  or  more  in  saUed  water;  then  soak  a  h'ttle  while  in  fresh, 
and  put  to  boil  in  cold  water;  add  a  little  salt  and  a  medium- 
sized  onion;  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  as  the  water  boils 
away  add  a  little  soup  stock;  when  quite  tender  take  the  meat 
from  the  bone,  keeping  the  brain  by  itself;  strain  the  soup,  and 
if  you  think  there  is  too  much  meat,  use  a  portion  as  a  side- 
dish  dressed  with  brain  sauce;  do  not  cut  the  meat  too  fine — and 
season  the  soup  with  allspice,  cloves  and  mace,  adding  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste;  put  back  the  meat,  and  taking  one-half  the 
brain,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  flour,  work  to  a  thin 
batter,  stirring  in  claret  and  sherry  wines  to  taste,  and  last  of  all 
add  a  little  extract  of  lemon,  and  one  hard-boiled  t%'g,  chop- 
ped not  too  fine;  if  desirable  add  a  few  small  force-meat  balls. 

[Turtle  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner.] 


Ox -Tail  Soup. 

Take  one  ox-tail  and  divide  into  pieces  an  inch  long;  2 
pounds  of  lean  beef  cut  in  small  pieces;  4  carrots;  3  onions 
sliced  fine;  a  little  thyme,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  4 
quarts  cold  water;  boil  four  hours  or  more,  according  to  size  of 
the  ox-tail,  and  when  done  add  a  little  allspice  or  cloves. 

Okra   Soup. 

One  large  slice  of  ham ;  i  pound  of  beef,  veal  or  chicken, 
and  I  onion,  all  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  in  butter  together 
until  brown,  adding  black  or  red  pepper  for  seasoning,  along  with 


4  Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

a  little  salt,  adding  in  the  meantime,  delicately  sliced  thin, 
sufficient  okra,  and  put  all  in  a  porcelain  kettle.  For  a  family 
of  four  use  30  pods  of  okra,  with  2  quarts  water,  over  a  steady, 
but  not  too  hot  fire;  boil  slowly  for  3  or  4  hours;  when  half 
done  add  2  or  3  peeled  tomatoes. 

Chicken  Gumbo. 

[Mrs.  E.  a.  Wilburn's  Recipe.] 
For  the  stock,  take  two  chickens  and  boil  in  a  gallon  of  water 
until  thoroughly  done  and  the  liquid  reduced  to  half  a  gallon- 
Wipe  off  i^  pounds  of  green  okra,  or  if  the  dry  is  used,  ^ 
pound  is  sufficient,  which  cut  up  fine  and  add  to  this  stock  while 
boiling;  next  add  \\  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and 
chopped  fine,  adding  also  \  coffee  cupful  of  rice;  let  these 
boil  for  six  hours,  adding  boiling  water  when  necessary;  then 
take  out  the  chickens,  carve  and  fry  them  brown  in  clear  lard; 
into  the  fat  put  i  large  white  onion,  chopped  fine,  adding  2 
tablespoon fuls  of  flour.  Just  before  serving,  put  the  chicken, 
boned  and  chopped,  with  the  gravy  thus  prepared,  and  add  to 
the  soup  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Fresh  Oyster  Soup. 
Take  25  or  30  small  Eastern  and  50  California  oysters;  wash 
clean,  and  put  into  a  kettle  over  the  fire,  with  a  little  over  a 
pint  of  water.  As  soon  as  they  open  pour  into  a  pan  and  take 
the  oysters  from  the  shells,  pouring  the  juice  into  a  pitcher  to 
settle.  If  the  oysters  are  large,  cut  in  two  once;  return  the 
juice  to  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  a  piece  of  butter 
worked  in  flour;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  boil 
slowly  for  two  minutes;  put  in  a  cupful  of  rich  milk  and  the 


Clayton* s  Quaker  Cook-Book.  5 

oysters,  along  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  chopped  crackers, 
and  let  the  liquid  boil  up  once.  Should  you  need  a  larger 
quantity  of  soup,  add  a  can  of  good  oysters,  as  they  will  change 
the  flavor  but  little.  In  my  opinion  nutmeg  improves  the 
flavor  of  the  soup. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Take  4  pounds  of  fresh  codfish — the  upper  part  of  the  fish  is 
best;  fry  plenty  of  salt  pork  cut  in  small  strips;  put  the  fat  in  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle,  then  a  layer  ol  the  fried  pork,  next  a  layer 
of  fish;  follow  with  a  layer  of  potato  sliced — not  too  thin — and 
a  layer  of  sliced  onions,  seasoned  with  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper; 
alternate  these  layers  as  long  as  the  material  holds  out,  topping 
off"  with  a  layer  of  hard  crackers.  Use  equal  parts  of  water  and 
milk  sufficient  to  cook,  which  will  not  require  more  than  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  over  a  good  fire.  Great  care  should  be 
taken  not  to  scorch  in  the  cooking. 

[Clam  Chowder  may  be  made  according  to  the  foregoing 
formula,  substituting  3  pints  of  clams  for  the  fish.] 

Clam   Soup. 

Take  50  small  round  clams;  rinse  clean,  and  put  in  a  kettle 
with  a  pint  of  water;  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  or  until  the  shells 
gape  open;  empty  into  a  pan,  pick  the  meat  from  the  shells, 
and  pour  the  juice  into  a  pitcher  to  settle;  chop  the  clams  quite 
small;  return  the  juice  to  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  hot,  work  in  a 
good-sized  lump  of  butter,  with  a  litde  flour,  and  juice  of  the 
clams;  stir  in  a  teacup  of  milk;  season  with  black  pepper,  and 
after  letting  this  boil  for  two  minutes,  put  in  the  clams,  adding 
at  the  same  time  chopped  cracker  or  nudels,  and  before  taking 
up,  a  little  chopped  parsley. 


6  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook-Book. 

Clam  Chowder. 

One  hundred  small  clams  chopped  fine;  \  pound  fat  salt 
pork  put  in  pot  and  fried  out  brown;  2  small  or  i  large  onion, 
and  I  tomato  chopped  fine.  Put  all  in  the  pot  with  the  clam 
juice  and  boil  for  two  hours,  after  which  add  rolled  crackers  and 
I  pint  hot  milk,  letting  it  boil  up.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
adding  a  little  thyme  if  agreeable  to  taste. 

Baked  Beans  and  Bean  Soup. 

Take  three  pints  of  white  peas  or  army  beans;  wash  very 
clean;  soak  eight  hours;  rinse  and  put  to  boil  with  plenty  of 
water,  hot  or  cold,  with  i^  pounds  beef  soup-meat  and  \  pound 
of  salt  pork,  letting  these  boil  slowly,  and  skimming  as  the 
scum  rises.  Stir  frequently,  as  the  beans  are  apt  to  scorch  when 
they  begin  to  soften.  When  soft  enough  to  be  easily  crushed 
with  the  thumb  and  finger,  season  with  plenty  of  black  pepper 
and  salt;  after  five  minutes  have  elapsed  fill  a  nice  baking 
pan — such  a  one  as  will  do  to  set  on  the  table — pour  in  the 
liquid  until  it  nearly  covers  the  beans,  score  the  pork  and  put  it 
half-way  down  in  the  beans,  and  bake  in  a  slow  fire  until 
nicely  browned. 

When  the  remaining  beans  are  boiled  quite  soft  rub  them 
through  a  colander  into  the  soup;  add  i  pint  of  milk,  and  sea- 
son with  ground  cloves  or  mace.  Just  before  taking  up  cut 
some  toast  the  size  of  the  end  of  a  finger  and  add  to  the  soup. 
Pepper  sauce  gives  a  nice  flavor. 

Dry  Split-Pea  Soup. 

Soak  one  quart  dry  or  split  peas  ten  or  twelve  hours,  and  put 
on  to  boil  in  i  gallon  of  water,  with   i   pound  soup-beef,  and  a 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook-Book.  7 

small  piece  of  the  hock  end  of  ham,  nicely  skinned  and  trim- 
med, (but  if  you  do  not  have  this  at  hand  supply  its  place  with 
a  small  piece  of  salt  pork;)  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
ground  cloves,  adding  a  little  curry  or  sweet  marjoram ;  boil 
slowly  until  quite  tender;  rub  the  peas  through  a  colander,  add- 
ing a  little  rich  milk.  This  soup  should  be  rather  thick.  Cut 
bread  in  pieces  the  size  of  the  little  finger,  fry  in  butter  or  lard, 
and  put  in  the  tureen  when  taken  up. 

Tomato  Soup. 

To  one  gallon  good  beef  stock  add  \\  dozen  ripe  tomatoes, 
or  I  two-pound  can;  2  carrots,  2  onions  and  i  turnip  cut  fine; 
boil  all  together  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  run  through  a 
fine  tin  strainer;  take  a  stew-pan  large  enough  to  hold  the 
liquid,  and  put  it  on  the  fire  with  \  pound  of  butter  worked  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  after  mixing  well  together  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  white  sugar;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
laste,  stirring  well  until  the  liquor  boils,  when  skim  and  serve. 
The  above  quantity  will  prove  sufficient  for  a  large  family. 

Celery    Soup. 

To  make  good  celery  soup  take  2  or  3  pounds  of  juicy  beef 
— the  round  is  best,  being  free  from  fat.  Cover  with  cold 
water,  and  boil  slowly  for  three  or  four  hours.  An  hour  before 
taking  from  the  fire  take  i  pound  or  more  of  celery,  cut  4  or  5 
inches  long,  taking  also  the  root  cut  thin,  and  salting  to  taste, 
boil  until  quite  tender;  then  take  out  the  celery,  dressing  with 
l)epper  and  salt  or  drawn  butter.  If  you  have  some  soup  stock 
put  in  a  little,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  strain.  This  is  a  most 
palatable  soup,  and  the  celery,  acting  as  a  sedative,  is  one  of 
the  best  things  that  can  be  used  for  quieting  the  nerves. 


8  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Pepper-Pot. 

Take  thick,  fat  and  tender  tripe;  wash  thoroughly  in  water  in 
which  a  little  soda  has  been  dissolved;  rinse  well,  and  cut  in 
strips  half  the  length  of  your  little  finger;  after  boiling  ten  min- 
utes, put  in  a  colander  and  rinse  with  a  little  hot  water;  then, 
adding  good  soup  stock,  boil  until  tender;  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  a  little  Worcestershire  or  Chutney  sauce,  and 
some  small  pieces  of  dough  made  as  for  nudels.  Should  the 
soup  not  be  thick  enough  add  a  little  paste  of  butter  and  flour; 
you  may  also  add  curry  if  you  are  fond  of  it. 

This  soup  was  popular  in  the  Quaker  City  fifty  years  ago,  and 
has  never  decreased  in  favor  among  the  intelligent  inhabitants. 

Egg- Balls  For  Soup. 

Boil  3  eggs  seven  minutes,  and  mash  the  yolks  with  one  raw 
egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  milk;  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  parsley  or  summer  savory;  make  into  balls  and 
boil  two  or  three  minutes,  and  put  in  the  soup  just  before  serv- 
ing.    Excellent  for  both  pea  and  bean  soup. 

Nudels. 

Rich  nudels  undoubtedly  form  the  best  thickening  for  nice, 
delicate  soups,  such  as  chicken,  veal,  oyster  and  clam.  Nudels 
are  made  with  flour,  milk  and  eggs,  and  a  little  salt,  mixed  to 
stiff"  dough,  rolled  as  thin  as  possible,  and  cut  in  fine  shreds  the 
length  of  the  little  finger.  In  all  soups  where  nudels  are  used,  a 
little  chopped  parsley  should  be  added  just  before  taking  up. 


Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook- Book. 


FIgH. 


Fish. 

The  so-termed  food  fishes  are  to  be  found  without  number  in 
all  portions  of  the  world,  civilized  and  savage,  and  a  large  por- 
tion of  the  inhabitants  of  the  globe  are  dependent  upon  this 
source  for  their  subsistence.  Certain  learned  physiologists  have 
put  forth  the  theory  that  fish-food  is  brain-producing,  and  adds 
to  the  mental  vigor  of  those  who  subsist  upon  it.  While  we  are 
not  disposed  to  controvert  this  consoling  idea — if  the  theory  be 
true — the  South  Sea  savages,  who  live  upon  this  aliment,  both 
in  the  raw  and  cooked  state — and  the  Esquimaux,  whose  prin- 
cipal summer  and  winter  diet  is  frozen  fish — should  be  the  most 
intelligent  people  on  earth. 

The  modes  of  preparing  fish  for  the  table  are  equally  as  nu- 
merous as  the  species.  The  direction  given  by  Mrs.  Glass,  in 
a  cook-book  of  the  olden  lime,  is  at  the  same  time  the  most 
original  and  most  sensible.  This  lady  commences  with: 
"  P'irst  catch  your  fish." 

Boiled  Fish. 

Fresh  fish  should  never  lie  in  water.  As  soon  as  cleaned, 
rinse  oflf,  wipe  dry,  wrap  carefully  in  a  cotton  cloth,  and  put 
into  salted  boiling  water.  If  cooked  in  this  manner  the  juice 
and  flavor  will  be  fully  retained.  Twenty  minutes  boiling  will 
thoroughly  cook  a  medium  sized  fish. 


lO  Claytons   Quaker  Cook-Book. 

Fried  Fish. 

In  frying  large-sized  fish,  cut  the  slices  lengthwise  instead  of 
across,  for  if  cut  against  the  grain  the  rich  juices  will  be  lost  in 
the  cooking,  rendering  the  fish  hard,  dry  and  tasteless.  For 
.  this  reason  fish  are  always  better  cooked  whole,  when  this  can 
be  done.  Beat  up  one  or  two  eggs,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
milk,  with  salt  to  season.  After  dipping  the  fish  in  this,  dry  in 
cracker  dust — never  use  corn  meal — and  fry  in  good  lard. 

Broiling  Fish. 

In  broiling  fish,  cut  large  as  in  frying,  grease  the  bars  of  the 
gridiron.  Harden  both  sides  slightly,  and  baste  with  butler, 
seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Take  large  oysters,  drain  the  juice,  and  dry  them  with 
a  cloth,  and  run  them  in  eggs,  well  beaten  with  a  little  milk; 
season  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  and  after  drying  in  cracker 
dust,  fry  in  equal  parts  best  lard  and  butter,  until  a  light  brown. 

Oysters  in  Batter. 

Save  all  the  juice  of  the  oysters;  beat  two  eggs  with  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  seasoning  with  pepper;  put 
this  into  the  juice,  with  the  addition  of  as  much  flour  as  will 
make  a  rich  batter.  When  the  fat  is  quite  hot  put  into  it  a 
spoonful  of  the  batter,  containing  one  oyster,  and  turn  quickly 
in  order  that  both  sides  may  be  nicely  done  brown. 


Cla\ ion's   Quaker  Cook- Book.  ii 

Oyster   Patties. 

Roll  good  puff-paste  quite  thin — and  cut  in  round  pieces  3J 
inches  in  diameter,  on  which  put  a  rim  of  dough,  about  i  inch 
or  less  high,  which  may  be  stuck  on  with  a  little  beaten  egg; 
next  add  a  top-piece  or  covering,  fitting  loosely,  and  bake  in 
this  until  a  light  brown,  and  put  away  until  wanted.  Stew  oys- 
ters in  their  own  juice,  adding  a  little  butter  and  cream;  fill  the 
patties  with  this,  put  on  the  lid,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes,  and  send  to  the  table.  Can  oysters,  with  a  rich  gravy, 
make  an  excellent  patty  prepared  in  this  way. 

Stewed  Lobsters  or  Crabs. 

Take  a  two-pound  can  of  lobster,  or  two  large  crabs,  and  cut 
as  for  making  salad,  and  season  highly  with  prepared  mustard, 
cayenne  pepper,  curry  powder,  or  sauce  piquant,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Put  in  a  porcelain  siewpan,  with  a  little  water,  to  pre- 
vent scorching,  and,  after  letting  it  boil  up  once,  add  butter  the 
size  of  an  t%%,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  or  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  while  wine,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  the 
moment  this  boils  add  half  a  teacupful  of  cream  or  good  milk, 
stirring  at  the  same  time.  Set  the  stew  aside,  and  heat  up 
shortly  before  sending  to  the  table.  Putting  slices  of  toast  in 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  before  serving  is  a  decided  improve- 
ment. 


12  Clayton's   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Roast,  Boiled,  Baked,  Broiled 
and  Fried. 


Retaining  the  Juices  in  Cooking  Meats. 

Too  little  ateniion  is  paid  to  one  of  the  most  important  features 
of  the  culinary  art — particularly  in  roasting,  boiling,  and  broil- 
ing— that  is  the  retention  of  the  natural  juices  of  various  meats 
in  cooking.  Existing,  as  these  always  do,  in  a  liquid  form, 
unless  this  is  carefully  guarded  against,  these  palatable  and 
health-giving  essences  of  all  animal  food,  both  tame  and  game, 
are  apt  to  be  wasted  and  dissipated  in  various  forms,  when  the 
exercise  of  mature  judgment  and  a  little  care  would  confine 
them  to  these  meats  in  the  course  of  preparation.  By  way  of 
illustration,  let  us  suppose  that  a  fowl,  a  leg  of  mutton,  or  some 
of  the  many  kinds  of  fish  frequently  served  up  in  this  way,  is 
to  be  boiled  in  water.  If  put  in  cold  water,  and  the  heat  grad- 
ually raised  until  it  reaches  the  boiling-point,  the  health-giving 
albumen — with  the  juices  which  give  each  its  peculiar  and 
pleasant  flavor — are  extracted  from  the  meat  and  dissolved  and 
retained  in  the  water,  rendering  the  flesh  and  fish  insipid  and 
in  some  cases  almost  tasteless.  If,  however,  these  are  plunged 
at  once  into  boiling  water,  thereby  on  the  instant  coagulating 
the  albumen  of  the  surface  at  least,  and  thereby  closing  the 
pores  through  which  the  inside  albuminous  juices  would  other- 
wise exude  and  be  lost.     Besides  this  albumen,  there  are  other 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  13 

juices  which  are  among  the  most  important  constituent  parts  of 
every  variety  of  animal  food  in  which  are  embodied  much  of 
its  fine  flavor  and  nutritive  qualities,  and  deprived  of  which  such 
food  becomes  unpalatable  and  tasteless.  All  meats,  then,  in- 
stead of  being  put  into  cold  water,  should  at  the  start  be 
plunged  into  boiling  hot  water,  as  this  prevents  the  escape  of 
these  juices,  and  the  retaining  not  only  the  delicate  and  fine 
flavor  of  the  meat,  but  confining  and  retaining  its  nutritive 
qualities  where  they  naturally  and  properly  belong. 


Roast  Pig. 

Take  a  sucking  pig-- one  from  three  to  five  weeks  old  is 
best.  When  properly  dressed  lay  in  salted  water  for  half  an 
hour;  take  out  and  wipe  dry  inside  and  out;  make  a  stuffing  of 
bread  and  butter,  mixing  to  a  proper  consistency  with  milk  and  a 
well  beaten  egg;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  with  the 
addition  of  thyme  or  summer  savory,  anJ  an  onion  chopped 
fine  and  stewed  in  butter  with  flour.  Sew  up,  and  roast  for  a 
long  time  in  an  oven  not  too  hot,  first  putting  a  little  water, 
with  lard  or  dripping  in  the  pan  Baste  frequently  until  done, 
taking  care  to  keep  the  pan  a  little  distance  above  the  bottom 
of  the  ransfe. 


To  Roast  Turkeys  and  Chickens. 

Turkeys  and  chickens  for  roasting  should  never  be  over  a 
year  old.  After  being  properly  cleaned,  cut  the  wings  at  the 
first  joint  from  the  breast,  pull  the  skin  down  the  lower  end  of 
the  neck,  and  cut  off  the  bone.     Cut  the  necks,  wings  and  giz- 


14  Clarions  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

zards  into  small  pieces  suitable  for  giblet  stew — which  should 
be  put  on  the  fire  before  preparing  the  fowls  for  roasting — 
which  should  be  done  by  cutting  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joint 
from  the  feet.  Make  the  stuffing  of  good  bread,  rubbed  fine, 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, seasoning  with  thyme  or  summer  savory,  mixing  to  the 
consistency  of  dough,  adding  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  good  milk 
or  cream.  Fill  the  breast,  and  tie  over  the  neck-bone  with 
strong  twine,  rubbing  the  sides  of  the  fowl  with  a  dry  cloth, 
afterwards  filling  quite  full.  Sew  up  tight,  tie  up  the  legs,  and 
encase  the  body  with  strong  twine,  wrapped  around  to  hold  the 
wings  to  the  body.  After  rubbing  well  with  salt  and  dredging 
lightly  with  flour,  put  the  fowl  in  a  pan,  laying  on  top  two  or 
three  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  salt  or  fresh.  Put  a  little  water  in 
the  pan,  and  baste  frequently,  but  do  not  roast  too  rapidly; 
raise  the  pan  at  least  two  inches  from  the  bottom  of  the  range. 
All  white  meat  should  invariably  be  cooked  well  done,  and 
turkey  or  chicken,  to  be  eaten  cold,  should  be  wrapped  while 
warm  in  paper  or  cloth.  When  prepared  in  this  way  they  will 
always  be  found  soft  and  tender  when  cooled. 

When  the  giblets  are  stewed  tender — which  they  must  be  in 
order  to  be  good — chop  a  handful  of  the  green  leaves  of  celery, 
adding  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  in.  Ten  minutes  before  taking 
from  the  fire  add  a  lump  of  butler  worked  in  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  and  the  yolk  of  two  boiled  eggs,  letting  simmer  two 
or  three  minutes,  then  put  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  chopped 
fine,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  good  milk  or  cream.  Some 
of  this  stew,  mixed  wiilythe  drippings  of  the  fowl,  makes  the 
best  possible  gravy.  ^ 


Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook- Book.  1 5 

Roasting  Beef. 

Never  wash  meat;  simply  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth,  rub  with 
salt  and  dredge  with  flour;  put  in  the  pan  with  a  little  of  the 
suet  chopped  fine,  and  a  teacupful  of  water;  set  in  a  hot  oven, 
two  inches  above  the  bottom.  The  oven  should  be  quite  hot, 
in  order  to  close  the  pores  on  the  surface  of  the  meat  as  quickly 
as  possible.  As  the  meat  hardens  reduce  the  heat  a  little, 
basting  frequently.  Turn  two  or  three  limes  during  the  roast- 
ing, taking  care  not  to  let  the  gravy  scorch.  Meat  cooked  in 
this  way  will  be  tender  and  juicy,  and  when  done  will  be  slightly 
red  in  the  centre.  Should  it  prove  too  rare,  carve  thin  and  lay 
in  a  hot  pan  with  a  little  gravy  for  one  minute.  Beef  will  roast 
in  from-one  and-half  to  two  hours,  according  to  size.  All  meats 
may  be  roasted  in  the  same  way,  taking  care  in  every  case,  that 
the  albuminous  juices  do  not  escape. 

A  Good  ^Vay  to  Roast  a  Leg  of   Mutton. 

Into  a  kettle,  with  hot  water  enough  to  cover,  put  a  leg  of 
mutton.  Let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  the  moment  it  is  taken 
from  the  water,  salt,  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour,  and  put 
on  to  roast  with  one-half  a  teacup  of  water  in  the  pan.  Baste 
frequently,  first  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Cooked  in  this 
way  the  meat  has  none  of  the  peculiar  mutton  flavor  which  is 
distasteful  to  many. 

Clayton's  Mode  of  Cooking  Canvas-back  Ducks. 

That  most  delicately  flavored  wild  fowl,  the  canvas-back 
duck,  to  be  properly  cooked,  should  be  prepared  in  the  following 
style: 


/ 


1 6  Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

The  bird  being  properly  dressed  and  cleaned,  place  in  the 
opening,  after  drawing,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  dissolved  in  wa- 
ter— some  add  a  stick  of  celery,  or  celery  salt,  to  flavor,  but  this 
is  not  necessary.  Sew  up  the  opening  with  strong  thread;  have 
your  fire  in  the  grate  red  hot — that  is,  the  oven  almost  red  hot; 
place  your  duck  therein,  letting  it  remain  nineteen  minutes — 
which  will  be  amply  sufficient  time  if  your  oven  is  at  the  proper 
heat — but  as  tastes  differ  in  this  as  in  other  matters  of  cookery, 
some  prefer  a  minute  longer  and  others  one  less.  Serve  the 
duck  as  hot  as  possible,  with  an  accompanying  dish  of  hominy, 
boiled,  of  course;  the  only  condiment  to  be  desired  is  a  Httle 
cayenne  pepper;  some  prefer  a  squeeze  of  lemon  on  the  duck; 
others  currant  jelly;  but  the  simplest  and  most  palatable  serving 
is  the  directions  given. 

Clayton's    Mode    of    Cooking    California    Quail,    or 
Young  Chickens. 

Split  the  birds  in  the  back,  and  wash,  but  do  not  let  them  re- 
main in  the  water  any  time;  dry  with  a  cloth;  salt  and  pepper 
well,  and  put  in  a  pan  with  the  inside  up;  also  put  in  two  or 
three  slices  of  fresh  or  salt  pork,  and  a  piece  of  butter  about  the 
size  of  an  q%%,  with  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and 
set  the  pan  on  the  upper  shelf  of  the  range  when  quite  hot,  and 
commence  basting  frequently  the  moment  the  birds  begin  to 
harden  on  the  top;  and  when  slightly  brown  turn  and  serve  the 
under  side  the  same  way,  until  that  is  also  a  little  brown,  taking 
care  not  to  scorch  the  gravy.  Having  prepared  a  piece  of  but- 
tered toast  for  each  bird,  lay  the  same  in  a  hot  dish,  place  the 
birds  thereon,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  all.  Birds  cooked  in 
this  manner  are  always  soft  and  juicy — whereas,  if  broiled,  all  the 


Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  17 

juices  and  gravy  would  have  gone  into  the  fire — and  should 
you  attempt  cooking  in  that  way,  if  not  thoroughly,  constantly 
basted,  they  are  liable  to  burn;  and  if  basted  with  butter  it  runs 
into  the  fire,  smoking  and  destroying  their  rich  natural  flavor. 

I  have  been  thus  particular  in  the  directions  detailed  in  this 
recipe,  from  the  fact  that  many  people  have  an  idea  that  the 
quail  of  California  are  not  equal  to  that  of  the  Atlantic  Slates, 
when,  from  my  experience  with  both,  which  has  been  consider- 
able, I  find  no  difference  in  the  flavor  and  juiciness  of  the  birds 
when  cooked  in  the  way  I  have  carefully  laid  down  in  the  fore- 
going simple  and  easily  understood  directions. 


To  Cook  Boned  Turkey. 

For  the  filling  of  the  turkey,  boil,  skin,  trim,  and  cut  the 
size  of  the  end  of  your  finger,  two  fresh  calves'  tongues.  At 
the  same  time  boil  for  half-an-hour  in  soup  stock,  or  very  little 
water,  a  medium-sized,  but  not  old,  chicken;  take  all  the  meat 
from  the  bones,  and  cut  as  the  calves'  tongues.  Take  a  piece  of 
ham,  composed  of  fat  and  lean,  and  cut  small;  also  the  livers 
of  the  turkey  and  the  chicken,  chopped  fine,  along  with  a  small 
piece  of  veal,  mostly  fat,  cut  as  the  chicken,  and  half  an  onion 
chopped  fine. 

Put  all  these  into  a  kettle  with  water  to  half  cover,  and  stew^ 
until  tender.  At  the  time  of  putting  on  the  fire,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  ground  mace,  salpicant,  celery  salt  and  a  little 
summer  savory.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  wiih  three  or  four  truffles  chop- 
ped the  size  of  a  pea,  and  a  teacupful  of  sherry  or  white  wine. 
When  this  mixture  is   cold  put  it  in  the  turkey,  with  the  skin 


1 8  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

side  out;  draw  it  carefully  around  the  filling,  and  sew  up  with  a 
strong  thread;  and  after  wrapping  it  very  tightly  with  strong 
twine,  encase  it  in  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  cotton  cloth,  at 
the  same  time  twisting  the  ends  slightly.  These  precautions 
are  necessary  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  fine  flavor  of  this 
delicious  pref>aration.  Boil  slowly  for  four  hours  or  longer,  in 
good  soup  stock,  keeping  the  turkey  covered  with  the  liquid, 
and  the  vessel  covered  also.  When  taken  up  lay  on  a  level 
surface,  with  a  weight,  to  flatten  the  two  sides  a  little,  but  not 
heavy  enough  to  press  out  the  juice.  When  quite  cold  take  off 
the  wrapping  and  thread,  and  lay  on  a  nice  large  dish,  garnish- 
ing with  amber  jelly  cut  the  size  of  peas. 

To  Bone  a  Turkey. 

Use  a  French  boning  knife,  five  inches  in  length  and  sharp 
at  the  point.  Commence  by  cutdng  off  the  wings  at  the  first 
joint  from  ttie  breast;  then  the  first  joint  from  the  drum-sticks, 
and  the  head,  well  down  the  neck.  Next  place  the  bird  firmly 
on  the  table,  with  the  breast  down,  and  commence  by  cutting 
from  the  end  of  the  neck,  down  the  centre  of  the  back,  through 
to  the  bone,  until  you  reach  the  Pope's  nose.  Then  skin  or 
peel  the  flesh  as  clean  as  possible  from  the  frame,  finishing  at 
the  lower  end  of  the  breast-bone. 

Chickens  may  be  boned  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Cook   Ducks   or   Chickens,  Louisiana  Style. 

Carve  the  fowls  at  the  joints,  making  three  or  four  pieces  of 
the  breast;  wash  nicely  in  salted  water,  and  put  on  to  boil  with 
water  enough  to  cover,  adding  a  little  salt;  boil    slowly;  care- 


Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book.  19 

fully  skimming  off  the  scum.  When  the  meat  begins  to  get 
tender  and  the  water  well  reduced,  cook  four  onions,  chopped 
fine,  in  a  pan  with  pork  fat  and  butter,  dredging  in  a  little  flour 
and  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt,  adding  a  little  of  the  juice 
from  the  fowls.  Next  take  up  the  pieces  of  .the  meat  and  roll 
in  browned  flour  or  cracker-dust,  and  fry  slightly.  If  the  butter 
is  not  scorched  put  in  a  little  browned  flour;  stir  in  the  onion, 
and  put  it  back  in  the  kettle  with  the  meat  of  the  fowl,  simmer- 
ing until  the  gravy  thickens,  and  the  meat  is  thoroughly  tender. 

Breast  of  Lamb  and  Chicken,   Breaded. 

Take  the  breast  of  lamb  and  one  chicken — a  year  old  is  best 
— and  after  taking  off  the  thin  skin  of  the  lamb,  wash  it  well  in 
cold  salted  water;  then  put  on  to  boil,  with  sufficient  cold 
slightly-salted  water  to  cover  it,  and  boil  until  tender — the  addi- 
tion of  a  medium-sized  onion  improves  the  flavor — then  take 
up,  and  when  quite  cold,  carve  in  nice  pieces,  and  season  with 
black  pepper  and  sail.  Next,  beat  two  eggs,  with  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  spoonful  of  flour.  After 
running  the  meat  through  this,  roll  in  cracker-dust  or  browned 
Hour,  and  fry  in  sweet  lard  and  a  little  butter  until  a  light  brown. 
Next  make  a  cream  gravy;  take  a  little  of  the  liquid  from  the 
chicken,  and  make  a  rich  thick  drawn  butter,  and  thinning  it 
with  cream,  pour  over  the  chicken  while  it  is  hot. 

[The  liquid  used  in  boiling  the  chicken  will  make  any  kind 
of  rich  soup  for  dinner.] 

Scrapple,  or  Haggis  Loaf. 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  best  fresh  pork,  mostly  lean,  with 
plenty  of  bones— the  latter  making  a  rich  liquid.  Put  these 
into  a  kettle,  and  cover  wiih  hot  or  cold  water,  and  let  the  mass 


20  Clarions   Quaker  Cook-Book. 

boil  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  or  until  quite  tender,  care- 
fully removing  the  scum  as  it  rises,  after  which  take  the  meat 
out  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  tray.  Pick  out  the  bones  carefully, 
and  strain  the  liquid.  After  lettin<^  these  stand  for  a  few  min- 
utes, if  in  your  opinion  there  is  too  much  fat,  remove  a  portion, 
and  then  return  the  liquor  to  the  kettle,  addino:  pepper  and  salt, 
and  seasoning  highly  with  summer  savory.  Next  stir  in  two 
parts  fine  white  corn-meal  and  one  part  buckwheat  flour  (Dem- 
ing  &  Palmer's),  until  the  whole  forms  quite  a  thick  mush, 
after  which,  chopping  the  meat  the  size  of  the  end  of  the  finger, 
stir  thoroughly  into  the  mush.  Next  put  the  mixture  into 
baking  pans  to  the  depth  of  i^  or  2  inches,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  for  two  hours,  or  until  the  top  assumes  a  light  brown — 
taking  care  not  to  bake  too  hard  on  the  bottom.  Put  in  a  cool 
place,  and  the  next  morning — when,  after  warming  the  pan 
slightly — so  that  the  scrapple  may  be  easily  taken  out — cut 
in  slices  of  half-an-inch  thick,  which  heat  in  a  pan  to  prevent 
sticking,  and  serve  hot. 

[A  small  hog's  head  or  veal  is  equally  good  for  the  prepa- 
ration of  this  dish,  which  will  be  found  a  fine  relish  ] 

Pigs'  Feet  and  Hocks. 

Have  the  feet  nicely  cleaned,  and  soaked  for  five  or  six 
hours,  or  over  night,  in  slightly  salted  water.  Boil  until  tender, 
and  the  large  bones  slip  out  easily,  which  will  take  from  three 
to  four  hours.  Take  up,  pull  out  the  large  bones,  arid  lay  in  a 
stone  jar,  sprinkling  on  each  layer  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  with 
a  few  cloves  or  allspice.  After  skimming  off  the  fat,  take  equal 
parts  of  the  water  in  which  the  feet  were  boiled,  and  good 
vinegar,  and  cover  the  meat  in  the  jar. 


I 
Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book.  21 

This  nice  relish  was  known  as  "  souse  "  fifty  or  sixty  years 
ago,  and  is  good,  both  cold  or  hot,  or  cut  in  slices  and  fried  in 
butter  for  breakfast. 

To  Cook   a    Steak   California   Style   of   i849-'50. 

Cut  a  good  steak  an  inch  and  an  eighth  thick.  Heat  a  griddle 
quite  hot,  and  rub  over  with  a  piece  of  the  fat  from  the  steak, 
after  which  lay  on  the  steak  for  two  or  three  minutes,  or  long 
enough  to  harden  the  under  side  of  the  steak,  after  which  turn 
the  other  side,  treating  in  the  same  way,  thus  preventing  all 
escape  of  the  rich  juices'of  the  meat.  After  this,  cut  a  small 
portion  of  the  fat  into  small  and  thin  pieces,  to  which  add  suffi- 
cient butter  to  form  a  rich  gravy,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  A  steak  cooked  in  this  way  fully  equals  broiling,  and 
is  at  the  same  time  quite  as  juicy  and  lender. 

A  Good  Way  to  Cook  a  Ham. 

Boil  a  ten  or  twelve  pound  ham  slowly  for  three  hours;  strip 
off  the  skin;  take  a  sharp  knife  and  shave  off  the  outer  surface 
very  thin,  and  if  quite  fat  take  off  a  little,  and  spread  over 
the  fat  part  a  thin  coating  of  sugar.  Next  put  the  ham  in 
a  baking-pan,  with  one-half  pint  of  white  wine,  and  roast 
half-an-hour.  Baste  often,  taking  care  that  the  wine  and  juice 
of  the  ham  do  not  scorch,  as  these  form  a  nice  gravy.  Whether 
eaten  hot  or  cold  the  ham  should  be  carved  very  thin. 

Beefsteak  Broiled. 

Place  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire;  rub  the  bars  with  a  little 
of  the  fat,  to  keep  from  sticking.  The  moment  it  hardens  a 
little — which  closes    the  pores  of  the   meat — turn  it   over,  thus 


2  2  Clayton's   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

hardening  both  sides.  You  may  then  moisten  with  butter,  or  a 
little  of  the  fat  of  the  steak,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Lay  on  a  hot  dish  along  with  the  best  butter,  which,  with  the 
juices  of  the  meat,  makes  the  best  of  gravy,  and  cooked  in  this 
style  you  have  a  most  delicious  steak. 

Beefsteak  with  Onions. 

Take  five  or  six  onions;  cut  fine,  and  put  them  in  a  frying- 
pan,  with  a  small  cup  of  hot  water,  and  two  ounces  best  butter, 
pepper  and  salt;  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  let  it  stew  until  the 
onions  are  quice  soft.  Next  broil  the  steak  carefully.  Lay  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  lay  the  onions  around,  and  not  on  top,  of  the 
steak,  as  that  will  create  a  steam,  which  will  wilt  and  toughen 
it.     To  be  eaten  quite  hot. 

Corned   Beef,  and  How  to  Cook  It. 

Select  a  piece  of  corned  beef  that  is  fat  The  plate  or  navel 
pieces  are  best,  and  should  only  have  been  in  salt  five  days 
Put  the  piece  in  boiling  water  in  a  pot  just  large  enough  to  hold 
it,  along  with  an  onion  and  a  spoonful  of  cloves  or  allspice;  let  it 
boil  slowly,  skimming  the  first  half  hour,  if  to  be  eaten  cold. 
Take  it  up  as  soon  as  tender,  and  when  cool  enough  take  out 
the  bones  and  place  the  meat  in  a  vessel  just  large  enough  to 
hold  it,  and  pour  in  the  fat,  with  sufficient  hot  water  to  cover  it, 
letting  it  remain  until  quite  cold. 

[Beef  tongues  should  be  cooked  in  the^same  way,  after  laying 
in  salt  or  strong  pickle  from  twenty  four  to  thirty-six  hours.] 

Spiced  Veal. 

Take  three  pounds  lean  veal,  parboiled,  and  one-fourth 
pound  salt  pork,  each  chopped  fine;  six  soft  crackers  pounded; 


Clayton's   Quaker  Cook- Book  23 

two  eggs  beaten;  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  three  peppers,  one 
nutmeg  and  a  little  thyme  or  summer  savory.  Mould  up  like 
bread,  and  place  in  a  pan,  leaving  a  space  all  around,  in  which 
place  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled. 
Bake  until  quite  brown,  and  slice  when  cold. 

Calves'  Liver  with  Bacon. 

Cut  both  liver  and  bacon  in  thin  slices,  and  an  inch  lohg, 
taking  off  the  skin.  Place  alternately  on  a  skewer,  and  broil  or 
roast  in  a  quick  oven.  Dress  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and 
juice  of  lemon. 

Calves'  or  Lambs'  Liver  Fried 
Slice  the  liver  thin,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 
an  t%g  with  a  spoonful  of  milk  or  cream.  Coat  the  slices  with 
this,  and  dry  in  fine  cracker  dust.  Fry  in  two  parts  lard  and  one 
of  butter  until  a  light  brown.  If  fried  too  much  the  liver  will 
be  hard  and  tasteless.  Salt  pork  fried  brown  is  very  nice  with 
liver,  and  the  fat  from  the  pork  will  be  found  excellent  to  fry 
the  liver  in. 

Spiced   Beef. 

Take  3J  pounds  lean  beef  chopped  small ;  six  soda  crackers 
rolled  fine;  3  eggs  well  beaten;  4  tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream; 
butter  size  of  an  ^%%\  \\  tablespoonfuls  salt,  and  one  of  pepper. 
Mix  thoroughly,  make  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  two  hours,  basting 
as  you  would  roast  beef. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Take  the  largest-sized  oysters;  drain  off  the  juice,  and  dry  in 
a  cloth;  beat  two  eggs  in  a  spoonful  of  milk,  adding  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.  Run  the  oysters  through  this,  and  fry  in  equal 
parts  butter  and  sweet  lard  to  a  light  brown. 


2  4  Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book. 


STi;WS,  SAI^ADS  and  SAI^AD  DRESSING, 


Terrapin  Stew. 

Take  six  terrapins  of  uniform  size.  (Tiie  females,  wliich  are 
the  best,  may  be  distinguished  by  the  lower  shell  being  level  or 
slightly  projecting.)  If  the  terrapins  are  large,  use  one  pound 
of  the  best  butter;  if  small,  less,  and  a  pint  of  good  sherry 
wine.  After  washing  the  terrapins  in  warm  water,  put  them  in 
the  kettle  alive,  and  cover  with  cold  water,  keeping  the  vessel 
covered  tight.  After  letting  them  boil  until  the  shell  cracks  and 
you  can  crush  the  claws  with  the  thumb  and  finger,  take  them 
off  the  fire,  and  when  cool  enough,  pull  off  the  shell  and  re- 
move the  dark,  or  scarf  skin,  next  pulling  the  meat  from  the 
trail  and  the  liver — being  careful  not  to  break  the  gall,  which 
would  render  the  liver  uneatable.  After  breaking  the  meat  in 
small  pieces,  lay  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  a  teacupful  of 
water;  put  in  the  wine,  and  one-half  the  butter,  with  2  or  3 
blades  of  mace,  2  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of  extract  of  lemon,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  Worcestershire  or  Challenge  sauce;  little  salt 
is  required,  and  if  pepper  is  needed,  use  cayenne.  After  stew- 
ing for  fifteen  minutes,  add  the  yolks  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs — 
worked  to  a  paste  in  the  remainder  of  the  butter — thinning  with 
the  juice  of  the  slew,  adding  at  the  same  time  a  teacupful  of 
sweet  cream,  and  after  simmering  for  three  minutes,  chop  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  fine,  and  add  to  the  mixture;  then  take  from 
the  fire,  and  make  hot  five  minutes  before  serving.  If  kept  in 
a  cool  place  this  stew  will  remain  perfectly  good  for  three  days. 


ClaytorCs  Quaker  Cook- Book.  25 

Stewed  Chicken,  Cottage  Style,  with  White  Gravy. 

Take  two  chickens,  one  or  two  years  old,  and  cut  each  in 
about  fourteen  pieces,  dividing  each  joint,  and  cutting  the  breast 
in  two  pieces;  cut  the  gizzard  quite  small,  and  put  it  and  the 
liver  with  the  chicken.  When  the  chicken  is  half  done,  cover 
with  cold  water,  adding  a  good-sized  onion,  and  when  it  reaches 
a  boil,  skim  carefully;  and  when  the  same  is  about  half  cooked 
add  sufficient  salt  and  pepper,  and  also  a  handful  of  the  green 
leaves  of  celery  chopped  fine,  which  will  give  it  the  flavor  of 
oysters.  Boil  slowly  until  you  can  tear  the  chicken  with  a  fork, 
when  turn  it  out  in  a  dish.  Next,  take  one  half  pound  of  good 
butter,  the  yolks  of  three  boiled  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn-starch  or  flour,  and,  after  working  well  together,  so  as  to 
form  a  thin  batter,  add  the  liquor  from  the  chicken,  return  to 
the  kettle,  and,  after  boiling  for  five  minutes,  return  the  chicken, 
season  with  nutmeg  or  sal-piquant,  adding  at  the  same  time  a 
teacupful  of  cream  or  good  milk,  also  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
chopped  fine.     Keep  hot  until  served. 

Stewed  Tripe. 

Cut  and  prepare  the  tripe  as  for  pepper-pot;  season  highly; 
add  a  pint  of  soup  stock,  and  four  spoonfuls  of  tomatoes,  wiih  a 
little  butter,  and  half  an  onion  chopped  fine.  Cook  until  quite 
tender. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Boil  a  good-sized  chicken,  not  less  than  one  year  old,  in  as 
little  water  as  possible;  if  you  have  two  calves'  feet  boil  them  at 
the  same  time,  salting  slightly,  and  leaving  them  in  after  the 
chicken  is  cooked,  that  they  may  boil  to  shreds.     This  liquid 


26  Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

forms  a  jelly,  which  is  almost  indispensable  in  making  good 
salad.  When  the  chicken  becomes  cold,  remove  the  skin  and 
bones,  after  which  chop  or  cut  to  the  size  of  a  pea;  cut  celery 
and  lettuce  equally  fine — after  taking  off  the  outer  fibre  of  the 
former — and  mixing,  add  Clayton's  Salad  Dressing,  (the  recipe 
for  which  will  be  found  elsewhere);  also  incorporating  four 
eggs,  which  should  be  boiled  eight  minutes,  cutting  three  as  fine 
as  the  chicken  and  celery,  and  leaving  the  fourth  as  a  garnish 
on  serving.  Cold  roast  turkey,  chicken  or  tender  veal  make 
most  excellent  salad  treated  in  this  way. 


Clayton's  Celebrated  California  Salad  Dressing. 

Take  a  large  bowl,  resembling  in  size  and  shape  an  ordinary 
wash-bowl,  and  a  wooden  spoon,  fitted  as  nearly  as  possible  to 
fit  the  curve  of  the  bowl.  First  put  in  two  or  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  mixed  mustard,  quite  stiff".  Pour  on  this,  slowly,  one- 
fourth  of  a  pint  of  best  olive  oil,  stirring  rapidly  until  thick  ; 
then  break  in  two  or  three  fresh  eggs,  and,  after  mixing  slightly, 
pour  in,  very  slowly,  the  remaining  three-fourths  of  the  pint  of 
oil,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  while  until  the  mixture  forms  a  thick 
batter.  Next,  take  a  teacupful  of  the  best  wine  vinegar,  to  which 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  has  been  added,  along  with  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  another  of  white  sugar,  stirring  well, 
until  the  whole  of  these  ingredients  are  thoroughly  incorpo- 
rated. When  bottled  and  tightly  corked,  this  mixture  will  re- 
main good  for  months.  Those  who  are  not  fond  of  the  oil, 
will  find  that  sweet  cream,  of  about  sixty  or  seventy  degrees  in 
temperature,  a  good  substitute;  but  this  mixture  does  not  keep 
so  well. 


CI  ay  ion's   Quaker  Cook- Book.  27 

Salad  Flavoring. 

It  will  be  found  a  good  thing  before  ornamenting  a  salad,  to 
take  a  section  of  garlic,  and,  after  cutting  off  the  end,  steeping 
it  in  salt,  and  then  rubbing  the  surface  of  the  bowl,  putting  in 
at  the  same  time,  small  pieces  of  the  crust  of  French  or  other 
bread,  similarly  treated.  Cover  the  bowl  with  a  plate,  and 
shake  well.     This  gives  the  salad  a  rich,  nutty  flavor. 

Eggs  and  Omelettes. 


Boiling  Eggs. 

Unless  quite  sure  the  eggs  are  fresh,  never  boil  them,  as  the 
well  known  remark  that  even  to  suspect  an  q^%  cooked  in  this 
style  is  undoubtedly  well-founded.  Hard  boiled  eggs,  to  be 
eaten  either  hot  or  cold,  must  never  be  boiled  more  than  eight 
minutes,  when  they  will  be  found  tender  and  of  a  fine  flavor, 
whereas,  if  boiled  for  a  longer  time,  they  will  invariably  prove 
leathery,  tough,  and  almost  tasteless,  and  dark-colored  wliere 
the  whites  and  yolk  are  joined,  giving  them  an  unsightly  and 
anything  but  attractive  appearance. 

For  soft  boiled,  three,  and  for  medium,  four  minutes  only, 
are  necessary. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Beat  well  three  eggs,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or 
milk;  add  salt  and  pepper;  put  in  the  pan  a  lump  of  fresh  but- 


28  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

ter,  and,  as  soon  as  melted,  put  in  the  e^gs,  stirring  rapidly 
from  the  time  they  begin  to  set;  as  in  order  to  be  tender  they 
must  be  cooked  quickly. 


To  Fry  Eggs. 

Put  butter  or  lard  in  a  hot  pan,  and  then  as  many  small,  deep 
muffin  rings  as  eggs  required.  Drop  the  eggs  in  the  rings. 
Cooked  in  this  manner  the  eggs  are  less  liable  to  burn,  look  far 
nicer,  and  preserve  their  fine  flavor. 

Oyster  Omelette. 

Stew  a  few  oysters  in  a  little  butter,  adding  pepper  for  season- 
ing, and  when  the  omelette  is  cooked  on  the  under  side,  put 
on  the  oysters,  roll  over,  and  turn  carefully.  A  good  omelette 
may  be  made  of  canned  oysters  treated  in  this  way. 

Ham   Omelette. 

Take  a  thin  slice  of  the  best  ham — fat  and  lean — fry  well 
done,  and  chop  fine.  When  the  omelette  is  prepared,  stir  in 
the  ham,  and  cook  to  a  light  brown. 

Cream  Omelette. 

Beat  three  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  adding  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  the  pan,  but  do 
not  let  it  get  too  hot  before  putting  in  the  mixture.  The  pan 
should  be  about  the  temperature  for  baking  batter  cakes.  Fold 
and  turn  over  quite  soon.     The  omelette  should  be  a  light 


Clmtons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  29 

brown,  and  be  sent  to  the  table  hot.  Should  you  have  sausage 
for  breakfast,  the  bright  gravy  from  the  sausage  is  preferable  to 
butter  in  preparing  the  omelette. 

Spanish  Omelette. 

Make  in  the  same  manner  as  the  cream  omelette,  but  before 
putting  in  the  pan  have  ready  one-half  an  onion,  chopped  fine 
and  fried  brown,  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  When  the 
omelette  is  cooked  on  one  side,  put  the  mixture  on,  and  turn 
the  sides  over  until  closed  tight. 

Omelette  for  Dessert. 

Beat  eight  eggs  thoroughly,  with  a  teacup  of  rich  milk  or 
cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  a  very  little  salt. 
Stir  well,  and  make  in  two  omelettes;  lay  side  by  side,  and  sift 
over  a  thin  coating  of  fine  white  sugar.  In  serving,  pour  over 
and  around  the  omelette  a  wine-glass  of  good  California  brandy, 
and  set  on  fire. 


^o  Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book. 


VEGETABI^K3 


-^-^^-^i- 


Baked  Tomatoes. 


.  Pick  out  large,  fair  tomatoes;  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end, 
and,  placing  them  in  a  pan  with  the  cut  side  up,  put  into  each 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  bake  until  they  shrivel  slightly. 

Raw  Tomatoes. 

Cut  the  skin  from  both  ends;  slice  moderately  thin,  and,  if 
you  like,  add  a  small  piece  of  onion  chopped  fine.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  Durkee's  or  Clayton's  salad 
dressing. 

Cucumbers. 

Take  oif  a  thick  rind,  as  that  portion  between  the  seed  and 
outer  skin  is  the  unwholesome  part.  Slice,  rather  thin,  into 
cold,  salt  water,  and,  after  half-an-hour,  drain  ofT,  and  dress  with 
salt,  pepper,  wine  vinegar,  and  a  little  Chile  pepper-sauce, 
covering  slightly  with  Durkee's  or  Clayton's  salad  dressing. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Cut  large  cabbage  in  four;  small  in  I  wo  pieces,  and  tie  up  in 
a  bag  or  cloth.  Put  in  boiling  waier,  with  some  salt,  and  boil 
briskly  for  half-an-hour.  A  piece  of  charcoal  in  the  pot  will 
neutralize  the  odor  given   out   by  the   cabbage,  boiled  in  the 


Clavtons   Quaker  Cook- Book.  31 

ordinary  way.  Cabbage  should  never  be  cooked  with  corned- 
beef,  as  the  fine  flavor  of  the  latter  is  changed  to  the  strong  odor 
of  the  cabbage. 

To  Cook  Cauliflower. 

!f  the  cauliflower  is  large,  divide  in  three,  if  small,  in  two 
pieces;  tie  up  in  a  cloth,  and  put  in  boiling  water  with  a  little 
salt,  and  cook  not  more  than  twenty  minutes.  Eat  with  melted 
butter,  pepj)er  and  salt,  or  nice  drawn  butter. 

[Asparagus  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  and  eaten  with 
similar  dressing.  Both  cauliflower  and  asparagus  may  be 
spoiled  with  loo  much  cooking.  Care  should  be  taken  to  drain 
the  water  from  both  as  soon  as  they  are  done.] 


To  Cook  Young  Green  Peas. 

The  best  mode  of  cooking  this  most  delicate  and  finely- 
flavored  vegetable — put  the  peas  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  with 
just  water  sufficient  to  cover,  and  let  them  boil  slowly  until  ten- 
der. Add  a  lump  of  butter,  worked  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
to  the  rich  liquid,  with  half  a  teacupful  of  rich  milk  or  cream; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

A  Good  Way  to   Cook  Beets. 

Take  beets  of  a  uniform  size;  boil  until  tender;  slip  off  the 
skin,  and  slice  into  a  dish  or  pan;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
adding  a  little  butter,  made  hot,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Pour  this  over  the  beets,  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  send  to  the  table  hot. 


32  Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Mashed  Potatoes   and  Turnips. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  boiled  potatoes  and  turnips;  mash 
together,  adding  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  a  little  good  milk,  working  all  together  until  quite  smooth. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Take  small  white  onions,  if  you  have  them;  if  large,  cut  and 
boil  until  tender,  in  salted  water.  Pour  off  nearly  all  the  water, 
and  add  a  small  lump  of  butter,  worked  in  a  little  flour,  and  a 
small  cup  of  milk;  add  pepper,  and  simmer  for  a  few  minutes. 

[All  the  foregoing  are  desirable  additions  to  roast  turkey  and 
chicken.] 

Stewed  Corn. 

If  canned  corn  is  used,  put  a  sufficient  quantity  in  a  stewpan, 
with  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and,  after  adding  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  put  in  a  good-sized  lump  of  butter,  into 
which  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  has  been  well  worked,  adding,  at 
the  same  time,  a  cup  of  good,  sweet  milk  or  rich  cream,  and 
let  it  cook  three  minutes.  Corn  cut  fresh  from  the  cob  should 
be  boiled  at  least  twenty  minutes  before  adding  the  milk  and 
butter. 

Stewed  Corn  and  Tomatoes. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  corn  and  tomatoes,  and  stew  together 
half-an-hour,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  and  when  taken  up 
place  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  served. 


Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book,  33 

Succotash. 

This  is  the  original  native  American  Indian  name  for  corn 
and  beans.  In  compounding  this  most  palatable  and  whole- 
some dish,  take  two  or  three  pounds  of  green,  climbing,  or  pole 
beans — the  pods  of  which  are  large,  and,  at  the  same  time,  ten- 
der. Break  these  in  pieces  of  something  like  half-an-inch  long, 
and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  about  half-an-hour,  at  which  time 
drain  this  off.  Put  them  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  covering 
them  with  boiling  water,  into  which  put  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  salt.  When  the  beans  become  tender,  pour  off  the  greater 
portion  of  the  water,  replacing  it  wiih  that  which  is  boiling,  and 
and  when  the  beans  become  entirely  tender,  cut  from  the  cob 
about  half  the  amount  of  corn  you  have  of  the  beans,  which  boil 
for  twenty  minutes;  but  where  canned  corn  is  used  five  minutes 
will  suffice.  About  five  minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire, 
take  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an  t%%,  worked  with 
sufficient  flour  or  corn-starch  to  form  a  stiff  paste.  Season  with 
plenty  of  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  addinjr,  at  the  same 
time,  a  teacupful  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  Then,  to  keep  warm, 
set  back  from  the  fire,  not  allowing  to  boil,  but  simmering 
slowly  This  will  be  equally  good  the  next  day,  if  kept  in  a 
cool  place,  with  an  open  cover,  which  prevents  all  danger  of 
souring.  This  is  a  simple,  healthful,  and  most  appetizing  dish, 
inexpensive  and  at  the  same  time  easily  prepared. 

Saratoga  Fried  Potatoes. 

The  mode  of  preparing  the  world-renowned  Saratoga  fried 
potatoes  is  no  longer  a  secret.     It  is  as  follows: 

Peel  eight  good-sized  f)Otatoes;  slice  very  thin;  use  slicing- 


34  Clayton  s  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

machine,  when  available,  as  this  makes  the  pieces  of  uniform 
thickness.  Let  them  remain  half-an-hour  in  a  quart  of  cold 
water,  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  has  been  dissolved,  and 
lay  in  a  sieve  to  drain,  after  which  mop  them  over  with  a  dry 
cloth.  Put  a  pound  of  lard  in  a  spider  or  stewpan,  and  when 
this  is  almost,  but  not  quite,  smoking  hot,  put  in  the  potatoes, 
stirring  constantly  to  prevent  the  slices  from  adhering,  and  when 
they  become  a  light  brown,  dip  out  with  a  strainer  ladle. 

[If  preferred,  cut  the  potatoes  in  bits  an  inch  in  length,  and 
of  the  same  width,  treating  as  above.] 

Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant. 

The  best  way  I  have  yet  found  to  cook  this  finely  flavored 
and  highly  delicious  vegetable  is:  First,  wash  clean,  but  do  not 
remove  the  skin.  Put  the  roots  in  more  than  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  them;  boil  until  quite  soft;  remove  the  skin; 
mash;  add  bulter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  make  into 
the  size  of  oysters,  and  dip  in  thin  q^%  batter;  fry  a  light  brown. 
If  the  plant  is  first  put  into  cold  water  to  boil,  and  the  skin 
scraped  or  removed,  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  oyster — which 
constitutes  its  chief  merit — will  be  entirely  dissipated  and  lost. 

Egg  Plant. 

There  is  no  more  delicate  and  finely-flavored  esculent  to  be 
found  in  our  markets  than  the  ^%%  plant,  when  cooked  in  the 
right  manner.  Properly  prepared,  it  is  a  most  toothsome 
dish;  if  badly  cooked,  it  is  anything  but  attractive.  Of  all  the 
varieties,  the  long  purple  is  decidedly  the  best.  Cut  in  slices, 
less  than  one-fourth  an  inch  in  thickness;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  35 

let  the  slices  lie  in  a  colander  half-an-hour  or  longer,  to  drain. 
Next  parboil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  drain  off  the  water;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dip  in  egg  batter,  or  beaten  t.%%,  and 
fry  in  sweet  lard  mixed  with  a  little  butter,  until  the  slices  are  a 
light  brown.     Serve  hot. 

To  Boil  Green  Corn. 

Green  corn  should  be  put  in  hot  water,  with  a  handful  of 
salt,  and  boiled  slowly  for  half-an-hour,  or  five  minutes  longer. 
The  minute  the  corn  is  done,  pour  off  the  water  and  let  it  re- 
main hot.  All  vegetables  are  injured  by  allowing  them  to  re- 
main in  the  water  after  they  are  cooked. 

Boiled  Rice. 

American  rice  for  all  its  preparations  is  decidedly  preferable, 
the  grain  being  much  the  largest  and  most  nutritious.  In  boil- 
ing, use  two  measures  of  water  to  one  of  rice,  and  let  them 
boil  until  the  water  is  entirely  evaporated.  Cover  tightly;  set 
aside,  and  let  steam  until  every  grain  is  separated.  When 
ready  to  serve,  use  a  fork  in  removing  the  rice  from  the  cook- 
ing utensil.    • 

[The  foregoing  recipe  was  given  me  by  a  lady  of  South  Caro- 
lina, of  great  experience  in  the  preparation  of  this  staple  cereal 
product  of  the  Southern  Atlantic  seaboard.] 

Stewed  Okra. 

Cut  into  pieces  one  quart  of  okra,  and  put  to  boil  in  one  cup 
of  water;  add  a  little  onion  and  some  tomatoes;  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste;  and  when  all  is  boiled  tender,  add  a  good  lump 
of  butter,  worked  in  with  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  let  stew  five 
minutes,  stirring  frequently. 


36  Claytons   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Bread,  Cakes,  Pies,  Puddings 
and  Pastry. 

SOl^ID  AND  I^IQUID  SAUCES. 

Quick  Bread. 

Mix  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  with  quart  of  flour,  adding 
I  teaspoonful  salt  and  sufficient  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  hot  oven.  If  eaten  hot,  break; 
use  a  hot  knife  in  cutting. 

Quick   Muffins, 

Take  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  best  lard  or  butter,  i  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  i  tablespoonful  sugar,  i 
quart  good  milk,  and  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter,  and 
bake  at  once  in  muffin-rings. 

Brown  Bread. 

3  cups  of  yellow  corn-meal,  i  cup  flour,  2  sweet,  and  \  cup 
sour  milk,  with  \  cup  syrup,  i  teaspoonful  soda,  and  a  little  salt. 
Bake  4  hours. 

Graham  Rolls. 

Two  cups  graham  and  i  of  white  flour,  \  cup  of  yeast  or  \ 
cake  compressed  yeast,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar;  mix  with  warm 
milk  or  water,  and  let  stand  upon  range  until  light. 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  37 

Mississippi  River  Corn -Bread. 

One  pint  best  yellow  corn-meal,  i  pint  of  butter-milk,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  2  eggs  and  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  tea- 
spoonful  saleratus;  mix  well,  and  bake  at  a  brisk  fire. 

Nice   Light  Biscuit. 

Before  sifting  i  quart  of  flour,  put  in  2  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
best  baking  powder,  adding  a  little  salt  after  sifting.  Follow 
this  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of  best  lard,  and  with  good  milk,  mix 
into  soft  dough — working  as  little  as  possible.  Roll  full  half-an- 
inch  thick;  cut  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  slightly  browned  on 
top  and  bottom. 

Clayton's  Corn-Bread. 

Take  3  cups  of  good  corn-meal — either  yellow  or  white — and 
I  cup  of  flour;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  stirring 
well  together.  Next,  put  into  a  vessel,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  i 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  a  large  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
lard  or  butter,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Let 
these  come  to  a  boiling  heat,  stirring  well  at  the  same  time, 
then  pour  in  the  meal,  and  beat  to  a  stiff  consistence.  Turn 
into  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  brown  on 
top  and  bottom.  Use  hot  milk  in  mixing,  as,  in  my  opinion,  it 
takes  the  raw  taste  from  the  corn-meal. 

Johnny  Cake. 

Two  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  i  tgg,  well  beaten,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder,  2  cups  milk,  J  cup  sugar  or  syrup,  2  cups 
each,  corn-meal  and  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
brown. 


38  Clayton's   Quaker  Cook-Book, 

Sweet  Potato  Pone. 

One  large  sweet  potato  grated,  1  cup  yellow  Indian  meal,  2 
eggs,  I  tablespoonful  butter,  \  cup  molasses,  \  cup  sugar,  salt 
and  spice  to  taste;  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  the  usual  thick- 
ness of  cake. 

Ginger- Bread. 

One  pint  molasses,  \  pint  of  sour  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  ginger, 
I  teacup  butter,  i  teaspoonful  soda,  2  eggs — salt. 

Molasses  Ginger  Bread. 

One  cup  syrup,  \  cup  sugar,  \  cup  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  vinegar,  \  cup  shortening;  flour  to  make  moderately  thick, 
and  large  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

Quaker  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  3  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  5  flour,  \  cup  cider  or 
any  spirits,  4  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  a 
teacup  of  sweet  milk. 

Pound  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  \  cup  best  butter,  \  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream, 
3  eggs,  well  beaten,  i^  cups  flour,  i  large  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  and  a  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg;  and  beat  the  whole 
thoroughly  before  baking. 

Chocolate  Cake.— Jelly  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  and  whites 
of  2,  I  cup  pure  milk,  3 J  cups  flour,  i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tar- 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  39 

lar,  \  teaspoonful  bi-carbonale  soda,  and  stir  thoroaghly  before 
baking. 

llie  following  is  the  mixture  for  filling. 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  1  \  cups  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
chocolate,  and  i  teaspoonful  extract  vanilla.  Beat  well  together, 
and  spread  between  each  layer  and  on  top  the  cake. 

[Jelly  cake  may  be  made  the  same  way,  using  jelly  instead  of 
chocolate.] 


Currant  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  butter,  i  milk,  \  teaspoonful 
soda,  I  cup  currants,  and  a  little  citron,  cut  in  thin  slices,  with 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Pour  into  pans,  and  bake  medium 
quick. 

Cream  Cup-Cake. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  2  of  sugar  3  of  sweet  cream,  4  eggs;  mix 
and  bake  in  square  tins.  When  cold,  cut  in  squares  about  two 
inches  wide.  ' 

Jumbles. 

Rub  to  a  cream  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  pound  of  sugar;  mix 
with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  4  eggs  and  a  little  brandy;  roll 
the  cakes  in  powdered  sugar,  lay  in  flat  buttered  tins,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Sweet  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  sour  cream,  \  cup  butter,  i  ^%%,  \ 
teaspoonful  soda,  \  nutmeg  grated  fine,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 


40  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook-Book. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Five  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  \  teacup  cold  water;  mix 
well  and  bake  quickly. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

Into  I  pint  of  molasses  put  i  cup  lard,  i  tablespoonful  of  gin- 
ger, I  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  little  salt;  boil  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  when  quite  cool,  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff" 
dough;  roll  very  thin  and  bake. 

A  Nice  Cake. 

One  quart  flour,  4  eggs,  \  cup  butter,  \  cup  sweet  lard,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  i  of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  the  eggs  separately,  until  light.  Sift  the  baking  powder 
into  the  flour.  Melt  the  shortening  in  a  cup  of  milk  with  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs — putting  the  whites  in  last.  Work  into  a  thick 
batter,  and  bake  steadily  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  to  be 
eaten  hoi. 

Icing  for   Cake. 

There  are  a  number  of  formulas  for  the  preparation  of  icings 
for  cake,  but  the  following  will  invariably  be  found  the  sim- 
plest, easiest  prepared,  and  the  best: 

Take  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  i  pound  of  best  pulverized 
white  sugar,  and  any  flavoring  extract  most  agreeable  to  the 
taste.  Break  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  broad,  cool  dish,  and 
after  throwing  a  small  handful  of  sugar  upon  them,  begin  whip- 
ping it  in  with  long  even  strokes  of  the  beater.  Beat  until  the 
icing  is  of  a  smooth,  fine  and  firm  texture.  If  not  stiff  enough, 
put  in  more  sugar,  using  at  least  a  quarter  of  a  pound  to  each 


Clavtons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  41 

eg2;.  Pour  the  icing  by  the  spoonful  on  top  of  the  cake,  and 
near  the  centre  of  the  surface  to  be  covered.  If  the  loaf  is  so 
shaped  that  the  liquid  will  naturally  settle  to  its  place,  it  is  best 
left  to  do  so.  To  spread  it/use  a  broad-bladed  knife,  dipped  in 
cold  water;  if  as  thick  with  sugar  as  should  be,  one  coat  will  be 
amply  sufficient.  Leave  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  minutes. 
To  color  icing  yellow,  use  the  rind  of  a  lemon  or  orange,  tied  in 
a  thin  muslin  bag,  straining  a  little  of  the  juice  through  it  and 
squeezing  hard  into  the  ice  and  sugar;  for  red,  use  extract  of 
cochineal. 

Chocolate   Icing. 

Quarter  of  a  cake  of  chocolate  grated,  \  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  corn-starch;  flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla.  Mix 
these  ingredients,  with  ihe  exception  of  the  vanilla;  boil  two 
minutes,  and  after  it  has  fairly  commenced  to  boil,  flavor,  and 
then  sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar,  taking  care  to  have  it 
sweet  enough. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons;  2  cups  sugar;  butter, 
the  size  of  an  egg;  2  tablespoonfuls  corn -starch;  4  eggs.  Rub 
the  butter  and  sugar  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water;  have  ready 
2  cups  boiling  water,  in  which  stir  the  corn-starch,  until  it  looks 
clear;  add  to  this  the  butter  and  sugar,  and,  when  nearly  cold, 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  while  of  one,  well  beaten,  and 
the  rind  and  the  juice  of  the  lemons.  After  lining  two  deep 
dishes  with  a  delicate  paste,  and  pouring  in  the  mixture,  beat 
the  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  frolh,  adding  two 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  this  over  the  pies  when 
done,  returning  10  the  oven  to  brown. 


42  Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

English   Plum   Pudding. 

Three  cups  flour;  2  eggs;  i  cup  milk;  \  cup  brandy;  1  nut- 
meg; a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  \ 
pound  currants;  \  pound  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped  fine;  \ 
pound  suet  chopped _^fine;   1  cup  sugar.     Boil  three  hours. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding. 

Two  cups  oatmeal  or  cracked  wheat;  2  eggs;  i  tablespoon- 
ful  butter;  i  pint  milk;  three  medium-sized  apples;  a  little 
suet;  cinnamon  to  flavor;  sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  sugar,  eggs, 
and  milk  together;  stir  in  the  meal,  and  theii  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, the  apples  last,  after  reducing  to  small  pieces.  Bake 
until  well  set.     To  be  eaten  with  or  without  sauce. 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  loaf  of  stale  bread,  soaked  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  when 
soft,  beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  very  fine.  Pour  into  this 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, some  flavoring,  and  a  little  salt,  beating  all  well  together. 
After  baking  until  well  set,  let  it  cool,  and  spread  a  nice  jelly 
over  the  top,  and  on  this  put  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  troth,  returning  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

Baked  Corn-Meal  Pudding. 

■  Into  a  large  cup  of  corn-meal  stir  i  pint  scalded  milk;  a  small 
cup  suet,  chopped  fine;  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  syrup  or  mo- 
lasses; salt  to  taste,  and  when  cold,  add  i  pint  milk,  and  2  eggs, 
well  beaten,  i  teaspoonful  cinnarnon..  and  i  cup  raisins.  Bake 
three  hours. 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  43 

Corn-Starch  Pudding  (Baked). 
Four  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch;  i  quart  of  milk;  2  eggs;  J 
coffee-cup  white  sugar;  adding  butter  size  of  an  egg,  with  flavor- 
ing to  taste.  After  dissolving  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold 
water,  heat  the  milk  to  boiling  and  stir  this  in,  and  boil  three 
minutes,  stirring  the  mixture  all  the  time;  next,  stir  in  the  butter, 
and  set  away  until  cold.  Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light,  when 
add  the  sugar  and  seasoning,  and  then  stir  into  the  corn-starch, 
beating  thoroughly  to  a  smooth  custard.  Put  into  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  not  more  than  half  an  hour.  This  pudding  is 
best  eaten  cold,  with  sauce  made  of  cream  and  sugar,  flavored 
with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  or  both,  or  plain  powdered  sugar, 
as  tastes  may  prefer. 

Delmonico  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk;  3  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch;  put  in  hot 
water  until  it  thickens;  to  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls white  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  vanilla,  and  a  little  salt. 
Pour  on  the  corn-starch,  stir  thoroughly,  and  bake  fifteen  min- 
utes, but  not  long  enough  to  whey.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  \  teaspoonful 
vanilla;  put  on  top,  and  let  brown. 

Peach  Ice-Cream; 

Pare  and  cut  in  pieces  i  dozen  peaches,  or  more,  if  desired, 
and  boil  with  \  pound  loaf  sugar.  When  reduced  to  a  marma- 
lade press  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  cool,  add  i  pint  cream 
and  freeze.  Serve  with  halves  or  quarters  of  fresh  peaches, 
half  frozen,  around  the  cream. 


44  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Apple  Snow. 

Reduce  half  a  dozen  apples  to  a  pulp;  press  them  through  a 
sieve;  add  \  cup  powdered  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  lemon 
extract;  take  whites  of  6  eggs  and  whip  several  minutes,  and 
sprinkle  2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  over  them;  beat  the 
apple-pulp  to  a  froth  and  add  the  beaten  eggs.  Whip  the  mix- 
ture well  until  it  breaks  like  stiff  snow,  ihen  pile  it  high  in  rough 
portions,  in  a  glass  dish — garnish  with  a  spoonful  of  currant 
jelly. 

Strawberry  Sauce. 

A  delicious  sauce  for  baked  pudding:  Beat  J  cup  butter  and 
I  of  sugar,  to  a  cream;  add,  stiff  beaten,  white  of  i  Q^g  and  a 
large  cupful  of  ripe  strawberries,  thoroughly  crushed. 

Ambrosia. 

Have  ready  a  grated  cocoanut  and  some  oranges,  peeled  and 
sliced;  put  a  large  layer  of  oranges  in  your  dish,  and  strew  sugar 
over  them ;  then  a  layer  of  cocoanut,  then  orange,  and  sprinkle 
sugar;  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  cocoanut  for  the 
last  layer.     Pine-apple  may  be  substituted  for  the  orange. 

Farina  Pudding. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  farina,  soaked  in  a  little  milk  for  two 
hours;  i  quart  of  milk.  Set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  when 
the  milk  boils,  add  the  farina,  stirring  four  minutes.  Then  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  well  beaten,  i  cup  sugar,  and  a  little  salt. 
After  boiling  three  or  four  minutes,  pour  into  a  dish  to  cool. 
Flavor,  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  foam.  To 
be  eaten  cold. 


Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  45 

Baked  Corn- Meal  Pudding. 

Take  i   large  teaciipfiil'of  corn-meal;  scald   i   pint  of  milk, 

and  stir  the  meal  in  slowly  and  thoroughly.     Add  a  small  cup  of 

suet,  chopped  fine;  f  of  a  cup  of  molasses,  salt  to  taste,  and 

when  cool  add  i  pint  milk,  with  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  i  teaspoon- 

ful  of  cinnamon  and  i  cup  of  raisins.     Bake  3  hours. 


Snow  Pudding. 

One  box  gelatine,  2  cups  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons,  whites  of 
3  eggs,  I  quart  of  milk,  5  ^%%s>.,  5  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  i 
vanilla.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  \  pint  of  water  and  let  stand 
for  2  hours;  then  add  \  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  lemon  juice, 
and  sugar;  strain  and  set  away  to  cool  and  thicken,  and  when 
quite  stiff,  add  the  whites  of  the  3  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth; 
stir  these  into  the  jelly  until  it  looks  like  snow — mould  and  set 
on  ice. 

For  a  similar  custai-d;  add  5  eggs,  well  beaten  in  a  dish,  with 
5  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 


Fruit  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt,  i 
cup  suet  chopped  fine,  or  a  J  pound  butter  or  sweet  lard;  mix 
to  soft  dough,  and  roll  quite  thin — spreading  over  any  kind  of 
cooked  fruit,  sweetened  to  taste — rolling  up  nicely.  This  may 
be  boiled,  but  is  much  better  steamed,  as  this  makes  it  much 
lighter.  This  delicious  pudding  should  be  eaten  with  brandy  or 
wine  sauce,  liquid  or  solid. 


46  Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook-Book. 

Charlotte-a-Russe. 

Take  i  pint  rich  milk,  i  ounce  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  milk,  the  whites  of  2  (tg^i  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  i  cup 
sugar;  flavoring  with  vanilla.  Mix  the  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and 
flavoring;  and  when  the  gelatine  is  cold,  pour  it  in,  stirring 
thoroughly.  Line  the  dish  or  mould  with  slices  of  sponge  cake, 
fill  with  this  mixture,  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 

Solid  Sauce. 

Work  well  into  |  cup  of  the  freshest  butter,  i  cup  of  powdered 
white  sugar,  adding  the  white  of  an  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
worked  in  with  a  large  spoonful  of  California  brandy,  or  a  couple 
of  spoonfuls  of  good  sherry  or  California  white-wine;  working 
all  of  these  well  together,  that  the  ingredients  may  be  thoroughly 
incorporated,  and  season  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  or  both,  as 
may  be  preferred. 

Liquid  Sauce. 

Take  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  sufficient  flour  or  corn- 
starch, and  after  adding  boiling  water  to  make  thick  drawn  but- 
ter, boil  two  or  three  minutes;  add  brandy,  sherry  or  white- 
wine — according  to  taste — with  a  little  vinegar  or  juice  of 
I  lemon.      Make  quite  sweet  and  season  to  taste. 

Currant,  or  Grape  Jelly 

Wash  the  currants  or  grapes  well  in  a  pan  of  water;  after- 
wards mash  thoroughly,  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle,  letting 
them   simmer  slowly   for    fifteen    or    twenty   minutes.     Strain 


Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook-Book.  47 

through  a  thin  muslin  bag,  and,  for  every  pint  of  juice,  add  one 
pound  of  granulated  sugar.  Mix  well  together,  and  boil  five 
minutes,  and  put  into  glasses  while  warm.  Cut  paper  to  fit 
the  top,  dip  in  brandy,  and  lay  over  the  jelly,  and  when  quite 
cold  tie  a  paper  over  the  top,  and  put  away  in  a  dry,  dark  place. 

Calves'  Foot  Jelly. 

Boil  4  calves'  feet  in  4  or  5  quarts  of  water,  until  reduced 
to  shreds;  strain,  and  let  the  liquid  cool;  after  taking  off  the  fat, 
put  the  jelly  in  a  kettle,  with  one  pint  of  California  sherry, 
or  white  wine,  3  cups  granulated  sugar,  the  whites  of  4  eggs, 
well  beaten,  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  with  half  of  the  grated  peel 
I  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  or  nutmeg;  boil  until  clear, 
and  strain  into  moulds  or  glasses. 

Ice-Cream. 

There  are  a  thousand  and  one  modes  and  recipes  for  making 
ice-cream.  But,  after  having  tested  the  merits  of  a  large  num- 
ber, I  have  found  the  following  formula,  used  by  Mr.  Piper,  the 
former  head  cook  of  the  Occidental  Hotel,  of  San  Francisco, 
in  all  respects  superior  to  any  that  1  have  ever  used: 

One  quart  of  Jersey,  or  best  dairy  milk,  with  the  addition  of 
a  pint  of  rich  cream;  6  eggs,  and  i  pound  of  best  granulated 
white  sugar,  thoroughly  beaten  and  incorporated  together;  place 
the  milk  in  a  can,  set  it  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boiling  heat,  stirring  well  at  the  same  time.  Then 
lake  from  the  fire,  and  add  vanilla,  lemon,  or  such  flavoring  as 
you  may  prefer,  after  which  set  it  in  ice-water  to  cool,  and  then 
freeze.     Break  the  ice  for  the  freezer  of  a  uniform  size,  mixing: 


48  Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

coarse  salt  with  the  mass.  Stir  the  cream  constantly,  and  scrape 
thoroughly  from  the  sides.  The  more  the  cream  is  stirred,  the 
more  delicate  the  mixture  will  be. 

Orange -Ice. 

The  juice  of  6  oranges;  after  adding  the  grated  rind  of  i 
mix  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the  grated  rind  of  one;  after 
adding  i  pint  of  granulated  white  sugar,  dissolved  in  a  pint  of 
cold  water,  freeze  the  mixture  the  same  as  ice  cream. 

Lemon  Jelly. 

One  pound  sugar;  3  lemons,  sliced,  and  put  into  the  sugar; 
I  ounce  gelatine,  dissolved  in  cold  water  sufficient  to  cover;  add 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  strain  into  moulds. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One  box  Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  add 
a  large  goblet  sherry  wine,  and  i^  pints  of  boiling  water; 
sweeten  highly  and  boil  briskly.     To  be  eaten  with  cream. 

Peach  Jelly. 

Do  not  pare,  but  rub  your  peaches;  place  them  in  a  porce- 
lain lined  kettle,  with  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Let  them 
cook  thoroughly — from  one  to  two  hours — then  strain  through 
a  jelly-bag.  To  every  4  cuf)s  of  juice,  add  3  cups  of  sugar,  and 
set  on  to  boil  again.  Sometimes,  when  the  fruit  is  particularly 
fine  and  fresh,  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or  less  boiling  is  suffi- 
cient to  make  a  jelly,  but  sometimes  it  takes  longer.  To  test 
it,  drop  some  in  a  siucer  and  set  on  ice;  if  it  does  not  spread 
but  remain  rounded,  it  is  done. 


Clayton  s  Quaker  Cook-Book.  49 

Roman  Punch. 

Take  the  juice  of  4  oranges,  and  of  the  same  number  of 
lemons  or  Hmes.  Dissolve  1  pound  of  white  sugar  in  a  pint  of 
water.  Mix  all  these  together,  and  strain;  after  which  add  i 
pint  of  California  champagne,  and  2  gills  of  good  California 
brandy,  if  desirable.     Freeze  the  same  as  ice-cream. 

— ■>?  4 — o« — »   K" — 

MI3CF,I^I^ANE0Ug. 

Butter  and  Butter- Making. 

With  the  exception  of  bread,  which  has  been  appropriately 
termed  "  the  staff  of  life,"  there  is,  perhaps,  no  other  article  of 
food  more  universally  used  by  mankind  than  butter.  Notwith- 
standing this  well  established  fact,  it  is  a  lamentable  reflection, 
that  really  good  butter  is  one  of  the  rarest  and  most  difficult 
articles  to  be  procured.  Although  the  adulterations  of  this  staple 
article  of  food  are  numerous,  the  main  cause  of  the  quantities  of 
bad  butter  with  which  the  community  is  burdened,  is  ignorance 
of  the  true  methods,  and  slovenliness  in  the  preparation  of  this 
staple  article,  for  which  no  reasonable  excuse  can  be  urged.  In 
the  making  of  good  butter,  no  process  is  more  simple  or  easily 
accomplished.  The  Quakers,  living  in  the  vicinity  of  Philadel- 
phia, more  than  a  century  ago,  so  thoroughly  understood  and 
practised  the  art  of  making  the  best  butter,  that  the  products  of 
their  dairies  sold  readily  in  that  city  for  from  five  to  eight  cents 
per  pound  more  than  that  produced  by  any  other  class. 


50  Claytoris  Quake?-  Cook-Book. 

With  these  thrifty  people,  cleanliness  was  really  regarded  as 
"  akin  to  godliness,"  and  the  principal  was  thoroughly  and 
practically  carried  out  in  all  their  every  day  affairs.  The  most 
scrupulous  attention  being  paid  to  the  keeping  of  all  the  utensils 
used  scrupulously  clean,  and  so  thoroughly  w^ork  the  mass,  that 
every  particle  of  milk  is  expelled.  The  greatest  evil  to  be 
guarded  against,  is  the  too  free  use  of  salt,  which  for  this  purpose 
should  be  of  the  utmost  purity  and  refined  quality.  I  am  satis- 
fied, from  personal  observation,  that  the  butter  made  at  the 
Jersey  Farm,  at  San  Bruno,  in  the  vicinity  of  San  Francisco,  in 
every  respect  equals  in  quality  the  celebrated  Darlington,  Phila- 
delphia. 

For  the  keeping  milk  fresh  and  sweet,  and  the  proper  set- 
ting of  the  rich  cream,  an  old  style  spring-house  is  essentially 
requisite.  Who  thai  has  ever  visited  one  of  these  clean,  cool 
and  inviting  appendages  of  a  well  conducted  farm  and  well 
ordered  household,  at  some  home-farm  of  the  olden  time,  does 
not  recall  it  in  the  mind's-eye,  as  vividly  as  did  the  poet  Wood- 
worth  when  he  penned  that  undying  poem  of  ancient  home-Ufe, 
"  The  Old  Oaken  Bucket  that  Hung  in  the  Well." 

Properly  constructed,  a  spring-house  should  be  built  of  stone, 
which  is  regarded  as  the  coolest — brick  or  concrete — with  walls 
at  least  twelve  inches  in  thickness.  The  floor  should  be  of 
brick,  and  not  more  than  two  feet  below  the  surface  of  the 
ground.  The  roof  should  be  of  some  material  best  adapted  to 
warding  off  the  heat,  and  keeping  the  interior  perfectly  cool, 
while  due  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  allowance  of  a  free 
circulation  of  air,  and  provision  be  made  for  thorough  ventila- 
tion; only  as  much  light  as  is  actually  necessary  should  be 
admitted,  and    where  glass  is  used  for  this  purpose,  it  should 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  51 

invariably  be  shielded  from  the  sun.  Walled  trenches  being 
constructed  for  this  purpose,  a  constant  stream  of  cool  running 
water  should  pass  around  the  pans  containing  the  milk  and 
cream,  which,  for  the  making  of  good  butter,  should  never  be 
permitted  to  become  sour.  The  shelving  and  other  furniture, 
and  all  wooden  utensils  used,  should  be  of  white  ash,  maple  or 
white  wood,  in  order  to  avoi<l  all  danger  of  communicating  dis- 
tasteful or  deleterious  flavors.  As  there  is  no  liquid  more  sen- 
sitive to  its  surroundings,  or  which  more  readily  absorbs  the 
flavor  of  articles  coming  in  contact  with  it,  than  pure  milk, 
everything  that  has  a  tendency  to  produce  this  deleterious  result 
should  be  carefully  excluded.  Neither  paints  or  varnish  should 
be  used  about  the  structure,  and  the  entire  concern  should  be  as 
utterly  free  from  paint  as  the  inside  of  an  old  time  Quaker 
meeting-house. 

In  making  butter,  the  cream  should  be  churned  at  a  temper- 
ature of  about  65  degrees.  When  the  churning  is  finished,  take 
up  the  lump  and  carefully  work  out  every  particle  of  milk. 
Never  wash  or  put  your  hands  in  the  mass.  To  each  pound  of 
butter  work  in  a  little  less  than  an  ounce  of  the  purest  dairy  salt. 
Set  the  butter  away,  and  at  the  proper  time  work  the  mass  over 
until  not  a  particle  of  milk  remains. 


A  Word  of  Advice  to  Hotel  and  Restaurant  Cooks. 

I  wish  to  say  a  word  to  the  extensive  brotherhood  and  an- 
cient and  honorable  guild  constituting  the  Grand  Army  of 
Hotel  and  Restaurant  Cooks  distributed  throughout  our  coun- 
try, on  the  all-important  subject  of  making  coffee  and  heating 
milk.     Some  satirical  writer  has  sarcastically  said  that  the  way 


52  Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

to  make  good  coffee  is  to  ascertain  how  tliat  beverage  is  pre- 
pared in  leading  liotels  and  restaurants,  and  then  make  your 
coffee  as  they  don't]  There  is  no  good  reason  why  coffee  can- 
not be  as  well  made  in  hotel  and  restaurant  kitchens,  as  in  pri- 
vate families  or  anywhere  else,  if  the  berry  is  good,  weil-browned, 
and  pains  are  taken  for  the  proper  preparation  of  this  popular 
beverage. 

Twenty  years  ago  the  art  of  making  coffee  in  large  quantities, 
and  of  properly  heating  milk  for  the  same,  was  an  unsolved 
problem — in  fact,  if  not  numbered  among  the  many  lost  arts, 
might  be  classed  as  among  the  unknown  in  the  culinary  art. 
Twenty-one  years  ago,  the  late  Mr.  INIarden — a  well-known 
citizen  of  San  Francisco — and  the  author  of  this  work— produced, 
as  the  result  of  long  practical  experience,  a  form  for  making  a 
decoction  of  the  ancient  Arabian  berry,  which  is  now  in  gen- 
eral use  throughout  the  entire  Union.  True,  attempts  have 
been  made  to  improve  upon  the  mode,  which  was  the  crown- 
ing triumph  of  the  parties  alluded  to,  but  they  have  invariably 
proved  failures,  and  to-day  Marden  &  Clayton's  coffee  and  milk 
urns  stand  pre-eminent  in  this  important  department  of  cook- 
ery. These  urns  are  simply  two  capacious  stone-ware  jars,  of 
equal  capacity,  and  made  precisely  alike,  with  an  orifice  one  inch 
from  the  bottom,  in  which  a  faucet  is  firmly  cemented.  Each 
jar  is  suspended  in  a  heavy  tin  casing,  affording  an  intervening 
space  of  two  inches,  which  is  to  be  filled  with  hot.  but  not  boil- 
ing water,  as  a  too  high  temperature  would  injure  the  flavor  of 
the  coffee,  and  detract  from  the  aroma  of  the  fragrant  berry. 
Suspend  a  thin  cotton  sack  in  the  centre,  and  half  the  height  of 
the  jar.  After  putting  in  this  the  desired  amount  of  coffee,  pour 
on  it  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  strong  coffee.     x'\s  soon  as 


Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  53 

the  water  has  entirely  filtered  through,  draw  off  the  liquid 
through  the  stop-cock  at  the  bottom  of  the  jar,- and  return  it  to 
the  sack,  passing  it  through,  in  the  same  manner,  two  or  three 
times  After  five  minutes  raise  the  sack,  pour  in  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  and  let  it  filter  through,  getting,  in  this  manner,  every 
particle  of  the  strength.  Immediately  after  this  remove  the 
sack;  for  if  it  is  left  remaining  but  a  short  time,  the  aroma  will 
be  changed  for  the  worse.  Cover  tightly,  and  keep  the  jar  sur- 
rounded with  hot,  but  not  boiling  water.  Next,  put  into  the 
milk  urn — also  surrounded  with  hot  water — one-half  the  milk 
for  the  amount  of  coffee,  and  at  the  proper  time  add  the  re- 
maining half  of  the  milk,  having  it,  in  this  manner,  fresh,  and 
not  over-cooked.  Should  the  milk  become  too  hot,  pour  in  a 
cup  of  cold  milk,  stirring  well  at  the  same  lime. 

The  first  of  these  urns  for  making  coffee  and  heating  milk, 
were  those  used  for  the  purpose  at  the  opening  of  the  Occi- 
dental Hotel  of  this  city — of  which  Mr.  Piper  was  at  that  time 
the  intelligent  and  experienced  head-cook.  This  mode  of 
making  coffee  in  large  quantities  is  still  followed  at  this  hotel, 
which,  from  the  time  of  its  opening  to  the  present,  has  main- 
tained the  reputation  as  one  of  the  best  of  the  numerous  excel- 
lent public  houses  of  this  city,  and  the  entire  Union. 

Clayton's   California  Golden   Coffee. 

Let  the  coffee — which  should  be  nicely  browned,  but  not 
burned — be  ground  rather  fine,  in  order  that  you  may  extract 
the  strength  without  boiling — as  that  dissipates  the  aroma  and 
destroys  the  flavor.  Put  the  coffee  in  a  thin  muslin  sack — 
reaching  less  than  half-way  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel — then 
})lace  it  in  the  pot,  and  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  make 


54  Clay  ions  Quaker  Cock- Bock. 

strong  coffee.  Let  it  stand  on  the  hot  range  two  or  three  min- 
utes, when  Hft  out  the  sack,  pour  the  hquid  in  a  vessel,  and  re- 
turn it  tt^rough  the  sack  the  second  time,  after  which,  raising 
the  sack  again,  pour  through  a  httle  hot  water  to  extract  all  the 
strength  from  the  grounds.  Next,  pour  into  the  liquid,  cold, 
Jersey  Dairy,  or  any  other  pure  country  milk,  until  the  coffee 
assumes  a  rich  golden  color,  and  after  it  reaches  a  boiling-heat 
once  more,  set  it  back.  Should  the  milk  be  boiled  separately, 
the  richness,  combined  with  its  albumen,  will  be  confined  to 
the  top;  whereas,  if  added  cold,  and  boiled  with  the  coffee,  it 
will  be  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  liquid,  adding  mate- 
rially to  its  rich  flavor  and  delicate  aroma. 

[Never  substitute  a  woolen  for  the  muslin  strainer,  as  that 
fabric,  being  animal  should  never  come  in  contact  with  heat; 
while  cotton  or  linen,  being  of  vegetable  fibre,  is  easily  washed 
clean  and  dried.  Neither  should  tin  be  used,  as  that  lets  the 
fine  coffee  through,  and  clouds  the  liquid,  which  should  be 
clear.  To  extract  its  full  strength,  coffee  should  invariably  be 
ground  as  fine  as  oatmeal  or  finely-ground  hominy,  and  pro- 
tracted boiling  dissipates  the  aroma  and  destroys  its  fine  flavor.] 


The  Very  Best  Way  to  Make  Chocolate. 

After  grating  through  a  coarse  grater,  put  the  chocolate  in  a 
stew-pan  with  a  coffee-cup  or  more  of  hot  water;  let  it  boil  up 
two  or  three  minutes,  and  add  plenty  of  good  rich  country 
milk  to  make  it  of  the  right  consistency,  Too  much  water 
tends  to  make  this  otherwise  delightful  beverage  insipid. 

[Good  Cocoa  is  made  in  the  same  manner.] 


Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  55 

Old  Virginia  Egg-Nog. 

Two  dozen  fresh  eggs;  i  gallon  rich  milk;  i^  pounds  pow- 
dered sugar;  2  pints  cognac  brandy,  or  Santa  Cruz  rum — or  ^ 
pint  cognac  and  \  pini  Jamaica,  or  Santa  Cruz  rum.  Break  the 
eggs  carefully,  separating  the  whites  from  the  yolks;  add  the 
sugar  to  the  latter,  and  with  a  strong  spoon  beat  until  very 
light,  adding  gradually  2  dessert  spoonfuls  of  powdered  mace  or 
nutmeg.  Next,  add  the  liquor,  pouring  in  slowly,  stirring  actively 
at  the  same  time;  after  which  add  the  milk  in  like  manner. 
Meanwhile — having  whipped  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  an  egg- 
beater  into  a  light  froth — pour  tiie  egg-nog  into  a  bowl,  add 
the  white  froth,  and  decorate  with  crimson  sugar  or  nutmeg, 
and  serve.  The  foregoing  proportions  will  be  sufficient  to  make 
fourteen  pints  of  very  superior  egg-nog. 

Clayton's  Popular  Sandwich  Paste. 

Take  2  pounds  VVhittaker's  Star  ham,  in  small  pieces — f  lean 
and  \  fat — the  hock  portion  of  the  ham  is  best  for  this  purpose. 
Have  ready  two  fresh  calves  tongues,  boiled  and  skinned  nicely, 
and  cut  like  the  ham.  Put  these  in  a  kettle,  along  with  2  good- 
sized  onions,  and  cover  with  cold  water,  boiling  slowly  until 
quite  tender;  when  add  i  pound  of  either  fresh  or  canned 
tomatoes,  stirring  for  half-an-hour,  adding  a  little  hot  water,  if 
in  danger  of  burning.  Add  to  the  mixture,  at  the  same  time, 
these  spices:  plenty  of  best  mustard,  and  a  little  ground  cloves, 
along  with  Worcestershire  or  Challenge  sauce,  allowing  the 
mixture  to  simmer  five  minutes.  When  cool  enough,  pour 
into  a  wooden  bowl,  and  after  chopping  fine,  pound  the  mix- 
ture well,  while  it   is  warm,  with  a  potato-masher.     After  the 


56  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

mass  has  cooled  it  will  spread  like  butter.  Should  additional 
seasoning  be  desired,  it  can  be  worked  in  at  any  desired  time. 
If  not  rich  enough  to  suit  some  palates,  one-fourth  of  a  pound 
best  butter  may  be  worked  in. 

The  bread  used  for  the  sandwiches  must  be  quite  cold  and 
perfectly  fresh — cutting  carefully  in  thin  slices — using  for  this 
purpose  a  long,  thin-bladed  and  quite  sharp  knife.  Take  a 
thin  shaving  from  the  bottom  of  the  loaf,  then  from  the  top  an 
inch-wide  slice,  after  removing  the  crust.  Care  must  be  taken 
to  cut  without  either  tearing  or  pressing  the  bread.  Spread  on 
one  side  of  each  slice — as  if  using  butter — and  after  joining  the 
slices,  cut  the  same  to  suit  the  taste. 

[As  the  best  bread  is  the  only  kind  to  be  used  in  making 
sandwiches — without  wishing  to  make  invidious  distinctions — 
I  must  say  that  Engleberg  furnishes  from  his  bakery  (on  Kear- 
ney street),  the  best  I  have  ever  used  for  this  purpose,  as  it  cuts 
without  breaking,  and  does  not  dry  so  soon  as  other  breads  I 
have  made  use  of.] 

Welsh  Rabbit. 

To  prepare  Welsh  rabbit,  or  rare-bit — both  names  being  used 
to  designate  this  popular  and  appetizing  dish,  which  has  ever 
been  a  favorite  with  gourmands  and  good  livers,  both  ancient 
and  modern — take  one-half  pound  of  best  cheese — not,  how- 
ever, over  nine  months  old — Davidson's,  Gilroy,  California,  or 
White's,  Herkimer  County,  New  York,  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  over  a  slow  fire,  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle;  when  it  begins 
to  melt  pour  m  three  tablespoonfuls  rich  milk  or  cream,  and 
a  little  good  mustard.  Stir  from  the  time  the  cheese  begins  to 
melt,  to  prevent  scorching.     Have  ready  a  quite  hot  dish;  cover 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  57 

the  bottom  with  toast,  buttered  upon  both  sides,  upon  which 
pour  the  melted  cheese,  spieadinj^  evenly  over.  If  you  ])refer, 
you  may  use  as  a  condiment  a  little  mustard,  pepper,  or  any 
favorite  sauce.  This  is  a  dish  that  must  be  eaten  as  soon  as 
taken  from  the  fire. 

Delicate   Waffles. 

Take  \  pound  butter;  \  pound  fine  su^ar;  9  eggs;  3  pints  of 
milk;  \\  ounces  of  best  baking  powder,  and  2\  pounds  sifted 
flour.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  the  milk,  and  half  the  flour;  mix  well,  with  the  whiles 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  staunch  snow,  and  add  the  remainder 
of  the  flour.  Bake  in  waffle  irons,  well  greased  and  heated. 
When  baked,  the  tops  may  be  dusted  well  with  fine  sugar,  or 
with  a  mixture  of  sugar  and  powdered  cinnamon. 

Force-Meat  Balls. 

Mix,  with  I  pound  of  chopped  veal,  or  other  meat,  1  ^%%,  a 
little  butter,  i  cup,  or  less,  of  bread  crumbs — moistening  the 
whole  with  milk  or  the  juice  of  the  stewed  meat.  Season  with 
summer  savory.     Make  into  small  balls,  and  fry  brown. 

Beef-Tea. 

Take  3  pounds  of  lean  beef;  chop  as  fine  as  coarse  hominy, 
and  put  in  a  vessel,  covering  the  meat  with  cold  water.  Cover 
the  vessel  tightly,  and  let  boil  for  four  hours,  carefully  keeping 
the  beef  just  covered  with  the  water.  Pass  through  a  colander, 
pressing  out  all  the  juice  with  a  potato-masher,  strain  through  a 
cotton  cloth,  and  add  a  little  salt.  A  glass  of  sherry  wine  deci- 
dedly improves  beef-tea. 


58  Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Crab   Sandwich. 

Put  J  pound  boiled  crab  meat  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  to  a 
smooth  paste,  adding  ihe  juice  of  a  lemon.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  with  a  pinch  of  curry  powder,  and  mix  the  paste  well 
with  6  ounces  best  butter.  Cut  slices  of  bread  rather  thin,  trim 
off  the  crust,  and  spread. 

Something   about    Pork.— The    Kind   to  Select,  and 
Best  Mode  of  Curing. 

The  best  quality  of  poik.  as  a  matter  of  course,  is  that 
fed  and  slaughtered  in  the  country.  Corn,  or  any  kind  of 
grain-fed,  or,  more  especially,  milk-fed  poik,  as  every  one 
knows,  who  is  not  of  the  Hebrew  faith,  which  entirely  ignores 
this — when  properly  prepared,  well-flavored,  oleaginous  pro- 
ducuon — and  is  fond  of  pork,  from  the  succulent  sucking  pig, 
the  toothsome  and  fresh  spare-rib,  unrivalled  as  a  broil,  to  the 
broiled  or  boiled  ham,  and  side-meat  bacon  of  the  full-grown 
porker,  is  vastly  superior  to  the  meat  of  the  slop  and  garbage-fed 
animal  raised  and  slaughtered  in  the  city — more  especially  as 
the  butchering  of  hogs  in  San  Francisco  is  at  this  time  entirely 
monopolized  by  the  Chinese  population,  who  seem  to  have  a 
warm  side,  in  fact  a  most  devoted  affection,  for  the  hog,  sur- 
passing even  that  of  the  bog-trotters  of  the  "  Ould  Sod  "  for  the 
traditional  pet-pig  that  "  ates,  drinks  and  slapes  wid  the  ould 
man,  the  ould  woman,  and  the  childer."  Charles  Lamb's  ac- 
count of  the  discovery  of  the  delights  of  roast  pig,  and  inven- 
tion of  that  luxury  by  the  Chinaman  whose  bamboo  hut  was 
burned  down,  in  raking  his  pig,  serai-cremated  from  the  ashes, 
burned  his  fingers— which,  naturally  clapping  into  his  mouth  to 
ease   the  pain — which  was  changed  to  delight,  causing  John's 


Clavhns   Quaker  Cook-Book.  59 

torture-smilten  visage  to  assume  in  an  instant  a  broad  grin  of 
satisfaction  at  the  discovery — is  undoubtedly  correct,  or  at  least 
the  love  for  the  pork  exhibited  bv  the  "  Heathen  Chinee"  can- 
not reasonably  be  accounted  for  in  any  other  way.  In  order, 
then,  to  gel  the  best  article  of  pork — wholesome,  toothsome, 
and,  what  is  most  important  of  all,  entirely  free  from  any  form  of 
disease  or  taint,  great  care  should  be  taken  to  make  selections 
from  the  small  lots  fed  and  slaughtered  in  the  country,  and 
brought  into  the  city  most  generally  in  the  fall  season,  and  which 
are  to  be  procured  at  the  stall  or  shoj)  of  any  reputable  and  re- 
liable dealer.  Select  a  carcass  of  one  hundred,  or  less,  pounds, 
with  flesh  hard  and  white,  and  thin  skin.  For  salting,  cut  in 
pieces  six  by  eight  inches,  and,  after  having  rubbed  thoroughly 
in  salt— neither  too  fine  nor  too  coarse — take  a  half- barrel, 
sprinkle  the  bottom  well  with  salt,  and  lay  the  pieces  of  pork  in 
tightly;  then  add  salt,  and  follow  with  another  layer  of  pork, 
until  the  whole  is  packed,  with  salt  sprinkled  on  top.  Set  in  a 
cool  place,  and,  after  three  or  four  days,  make  a  brine  of  boil- 
ing water  with  salt — which,  when  cool,  should  be  sufficiently 
strong  to  float  an  Q^g — stir  in  a  half  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
pour  over  the  meat  sufficient  to  cover,  and  place  on  top  a  stone 
heavy  enough  to  keep  the  pork  weighted  down. 

Home-Made  Lard. 

Home-made  lard  is  undoubtedly  the  best  as  well  as  cheapest. 
If  leaf  is  not  to  be  had,  take  10  lbs  of  solid  white  pork,  as  fat  as 
possible,  which  is  quite  as  good,  if  not  better;  cut  in  pieces  uni- 
formly the  size  of  your  finger,  and  put  in  a  vessel  with  a  thick 
bottom — one  of  iron  is  preferable — and  adding  i  pint  of  water, 
put  on  the  range;  keep  tightly  covered  until  the  water  has  evap- 


6o  Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook-Book. 

orated  in  steam,  when  leave  off  the  cover,  letting  it  cook  slowly, 
until  the  scraps  turn  a  light  brown,  when  take  off,  and  while  still 
quite  warm,  strain  through  a  colander,  pressing  the  scraps  hard 
with  a  potato-masher;  pour  the  liquid  into  cans  and  set  away. 
The  next  day  it  will  be  found  snow-white,  solid  and  of  a  fine 
and  equal  consistence;  and  for  cooking  purposes,  quite  as  good 
as  fresh  churned  butter  in  making  biscuits,  any  kind  of  pastry, 
or  frying  eggs. 

[In  trying  lard  keep  a  c ireful  watch  and  see  that  it  does  not 
scorch.] 

New  Jersey  Sausage. 

Take  the  very  best  pork  you  can  get — one-third  fat  and  two- 
thirds  lean — and  chop  on  a  block  with  a  kitchen  cleaver. 
When  half  chopped,  season  with  black  pepper,  salt  and  sage, 
rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  then  finish  the  chopping;  but  do 
not  cut  the  meat  too  fine,  as  in  that  case  the  juice  of  the 
meat  will  be  lost.  Make  the  mixture  up  into  patties,  and  fry  on 
a  common  pan,  placed  in  the  oven  of  the  stove,  taking  care  not 
to  cook  them  hard.  Veal  is  a  good  substitute  for  the  lean  pork 
in  making  these  sausages,  which  are  much  better  if  made  one 
day  before  cooking, 

Pot-Pie. 

The  following  I  have  found  the  best  manner  of  making  any 
kind  of  pot-pie.  White  meat,  such  as  chicken,  quail  or  nice 
veal,  is  decidedly  the  best  for  the  purpose.  Stew  the  meat  until 
tender,  in  considerable  liquid  as  when  you  put  into  the  paste 
much  of  that  will  be  absorbed.  In  making  the  paste  take  i  quart 
of  flour  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  rubbed  well  into 
the  flour,  \  pound  butter  or  sweet  lard,  and  a  little  salt;  mix 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  6i 

with  milk  or  water  into  a  soft  dough;  roll  \  an  inch  thick;  cut 
to  size,  and  lay  in  a  steamer  for  15  minutes  to  make  light,  then 
put  in  and  around  the  stew;  cooking  slowly  for  ten  minutes. 

Curried  Crab. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  \  pound  butter  with  a  little  flour;  cook 
together  and  stir  till  cool;  then  add  a  gill  of  cream,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  East  India  Curry 
Powder.  Mix  well  together,  and  add  i  pound  boiled  crab  meat, 
chopped  fine ;  stir  well  together — make  very  hot  and  serve.  The 
addition  of  a  glass  of  white  wine  adds  to  the  flavor  of  this  curry. 

To  Toast  Bread. 

Cut  bread  in  slices  \  an  inch  thick;  first  taking  a  thin  crust 
from  top,  bottom  and  sides,  or  shave  the  loaf  before  cutting — 
otherwise  the  crust  will  scorch  before  the  soft  part  is  sufficiently 
toasted. 

Cream  Toast. 

To  make  a  delicious  cream  toast,  mix  well  a  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^^%.  Pour  in  hot  milk,  and 
stir  two  minutes,  adding  a  little  salt — a  litde  sugar  is  also  an 
improvement — and  pour  over  the  toast  while  hot. 

Fritters. 

Four  eggs,  well  beaten;  i  quart  of  milk;  i  quart  of  flour;  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  a 
little  salt.  Cook  in  best  lard,  and  serve  with  hard  or  liquid 
sauce,  highly  flavored  with  California  brandy  or  white  wine. 


62  Claytons  Quaker  Cock-Book. 

Hash. 

Il  is  a  mistaken  idea  (labored  under  by  many),  that  hash  can 
be  made  of  waste  material,  that  would  otherwise  be  thrown 
away.  This  is  a  most  excellent  and  palatable  dish  if  properly 
prepared.  Take  the  shank,  or  other  parts  of  good  beef  you 
may  have  at  hand,  and  boil,  with  as  little  water  as  possible, 
until  quite  tender,  and  let  stand  until  quite  cold.  Then  take 
of  potatoes,  that  have  been  peeled  before  boiling,  one-third  the 
amount  of  the  meat  used,  and  chop  moderately  fine,  adding 
plenty  of  pepper  and  salt,  to  taste.  Next,  chop  two  or  three 
onions  fine,  and  stew  them  in  some  of  the  liquid  in  which  the 
meat  was  boiled,  dredging  in  a  little  flour,  and  when  thoroughly 
done,  put  in  the  hash,  and  chop  and  mix  thoroughly.  If  you 
think  the  mass  requires  moistening  add  a  little  of  the  fat  and 
juice.  Put  the  whole  in  a  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
slightly  browned  at  top  and  bottom. 

Should  you  have  good  corned-beef — not  loo  salt — it  is  very 
nice  made  in  this  manner.  Use  the  marrow  from  the  bones  in 
making  hash. 

Hashed    Potatoes  with  Eggs. 

Chop  fine  8  or  lo  cold  boiled  potatoes;  heat  a  pan  (east-iron 
is  preferable,)  quite  hot;  put  in  butter  the  size  of  an  t^^,  and  as 
soon  as  melted  add  the  potatoes;  salt  and  pepper;  slightly  stir- 
ring frequently,  and,  when  heated  thoroughly,  stir  in  four  well- 
beaten  eggs.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Baked    Macaroni. 

Break  the  macaroni  rather  short;  wash  and  put  in  salted 
water;  boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  off  the  water,  replace 
it  with  a  cup  of  good  milk  and    i  tablespoonful  of  best  butter, 


Clo) ion's   Quaker  Cook- Book.  63 

and  as  soon  as  boiling  hot  put  in  a   baking-dish.     If   you  like 

cheese,  grate    over  it    the  best   California  article — old    cheese 

s;iould  never  be  used — and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 

For  stewed  macaroni  omit  the  baking  and  the   cheese,  if  you 

like. 

Drawn-Butter. 

To    make   drawn-buiter,  take    two    tablespoonfuls   of  flour; 

good  butler,  the  size  of  an   egg;  a  little  milk,  and  make  to  a 

smooth  paste.     Then   work  in  slowly   one-half  pint  of  water, 

until    the  flour  is  cooked.     Season   to   taste.     The  foregoing 

will  be  found  a  good   basis  for  nearly  all  hot  sauces,  for  fish, 

beet,  and  other  vegetables,  as  well  as  for  puddings. 

Spiced  Currants. 

Two  boxes  of  currants,  washed  and  stemmed;  3  pounds 
sugar,  I  tablespoonful  allsi)ice,  i  lablespoonful  of  cloves,  i  table- 
spoonful  cinnamon;  boil  half-an-hour. 

The  Best  Method  of  Canning  Fruits. 
There  are  various  modes  of  canning  fruits,  almost  every  house- 
keeper having  a  method  of  her  own.  For  the  benefit  of  those 
who  are  at  loss  in  this  particular,  we  give  the  following  mode — 
which  we  fully  endorse  as  the  best  within  our  knowledge — 
made  use  of  by  Mrs.  George  W.  Ladd,  of  Bradford,  Massachu- 
setts, whose  fruits,  prepared  in  this  way,  have  respeatedly  taken 
the  first  premium  at  the  Agricultural  Fair,  held  in  the  Old  Bay 
State.  This  lady  certainly  deserves  the  thanks  of  all  interested 
in  this  important  matter,  for  her  liberality  in  giving  the  pubhc 
the  benefit  of  her  knowledge  and  experience  in  this  line,  as 
detailed  in  the  following,  published  in  the  New  Fork  Graphic 
of  August  15,  1883: 


64  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

"  As  the  season  of  ripe  fruit  advances,  I  prepare  such  quanti- 
ties of  syrup  as  I  think  I  may  need,  in  this  way:  Three  pounds 
of  granulated  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  water  and  boil  twenty  min- 
utes; this  I  put  in  glass  jars,  when  cool,  and  set  away  for  future 
use.  Peaches,  quinces,  pears,  apples,  plums,  pine  apples,  rhu- 
barb, crab  apples,  and,  in  fact,  all  fruits  of  this  kind,  I  peel, 
quarter  and  place  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  (to  prevent  discolora- 
tion), until  I  have  prepared  enough  to  fill  ajar:  I  then  pack 
them  solid  as  possible  in  a  jar,  and  then  fill  the  jar  with  the 
syrup  previously  prepared.  I  then  place  a  wire  stand  in  the 
bottom  of  my  preserving  kettle,  on  which  to  place  the  jar,  then 
fill  the  kettle  with  cold  water  until  the  jar  is  two-thirds  covered; 
leave  the  jar  open,  but  cover  the  kettle  and  boil  until  the  fruit 
is  sufficiently  soft;  have  ready  a  little  boiling  syrup,  if  needed,  to 
fill  the  jar  full  to  overflowing.  Then  place  the  rubber  band 
around  the  neck  of  the  jar  and  screw  the  cover  on  as  tightly  as 
possible;  then  in  from  three  to  five  minutes  give  the  cover 
another  turn,  in  order  to  be  sure  it  is  air  tight,  and  you  will 
have  no  mortal  trouble  with  it.  I  use  Mason's  jars  with  metal- 
lic porcelain  covers." 

Preparing  Quinces  for  Canning  or  Preserving. 

Quinces  for  canning  or  preserving  should  be  kept  in  a  dry 
place  for  thirty  days  after  taking  from  the  trees,  in  order  to  give 
them  richness  and  flavor.  Peel  and  cut  to  the  proper  size, 
carefully  saving  skins  and  cores.  Put  the  last  named  in  a  por- 
celain kettle  and  boil  until  quite  tender,  when  strain  through  a 
cotton-bag;  afterwards  put  the  juice  back  in  the  kettle,  and  add 
sugar  as  directed  in  the  directions  for  canning  fruit.  Boil  slowly 
for  half-an-hour,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  set  away  to 
cool,  and  can  the  fruit  as  directed  in  the  receipt  for  canning. 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  65 

Clayton's   Monmouth  Sauce. 

In  inakini^  this  delightful  ketchup,  take  25  pounds  of  fresh,  or 
iwo  S  11).  cans  of  tomatoes,  and  slice,  not  too  thin,  adding  five 
medium  sized  onions  cut  fine.  Put  these,  with  plenty  of  salt,  in 
a  porcelain  kettle;  adding,  with  a  handful  of  hot  green  peppers, 
or  a  less  quantity,  if  dried,  i  ounce  of  white  ginger,  chopped  fine, 
I  ounce  of  iiorse-radish,  and  \  ounce  each  of  ground  cloves  and 
allspice,  and  i  lemon,  with  seeds  removed  and  cut  small.  After 
letting  these  boil  for  three  hours,  work  through  a  sieve  and 
return  to  the  kettle  along  with  a  pint  of  wine  vinegar,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  2  of  good  mustard,  a  teacupful  of  Challenge  or 
Worcestershire  Sauce,  and  let  boil  for  2  or  3  minutes,  and  set 
off.  To  prevent  fermentation,  stir  in  a  teacupful  of  high-proof 
California  brandy.     If  too  thick,  when  cold  reduce  with  vinegar. 

To  Prepare  Mustard  for  the  Table. 

Take  \  i)Ound  best  mustard  and  enough  wine  vinegar,  mixed 
with  \  boiling  water,  i  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  mix  to  a  thin  batter,  and  put 
in  a  common  glass  jar  and  keep  stopped  tight.  If  pure  mus- 
tard is  used,  treated  in  this  way,  it  will  keep  good  for  months. 

[If  you  desire  the  best  article  of  mustard,  I  think  E.  R. 
Durkee  cl'  Co's  is  the  best  I  have  ever  used,  although  Colman's 
ranks  equally  high,  if  you  can  get  the  genuine  unadulterated 
article,  which  can  be  had  by  procuring  Crosse  &  Blackwell's 
London  brand,  for  which  Messrs.  Richards  and  Harrison  are 
the  San  P'rancisco  agents.] 

Mint   Sauce. 

Into  a  teacupful  of  hot  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  dissolved 
suflicient  sugar  to  make  slightly  sweet,  add  a  handful  of  mint 
cho])i>ed  quite  fine.     Serve  hot. 


66  Clayton  s   Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Eggs  Ought  Never  be  Poached. 

Poached  eggs  are  always  tasteless,  and  also  unhealthy,  owing 
to  the  albumen  going  into  the  water  into  which  they  are  drop- 
ped, giving  it  a  white  and  milky  appearance — taking  away  a 
portion  of  the  richness  which  should  remain  in  the  t%g,  render- 
ing it  indigestible,  and  of  course,  unwholesome. 

Sunnyside  Roast. 

Select  a  good,  tender  piece  either  of  beef  or  mutton — veal  and 
pork  can  also  be  nicely  roasted  in  the  same  way — place  in  your 
iron  saucepan  or  pot  one  tablespoonful  of  good  lard  or  half  as 
much  butter,  and  an  onion,  cut  fine;  let  your  onion  fry  to  a  light 
brown,  and  put  in  your  meat,  first  having  washed,  dried  and 
salted  it.  Put  the  cover  on  and  let  stand  until  it  is  pretty  well 
browned;  then  add  water,  unless  in  danger  of  burning.  Add 
only  enough  water,  from  time  to  time,  to  keep  it  from  burning; 
turn  it  frequently  so  that  it  may  brown  on  all  sides.  When  ten- 
der, it  will  come  forth  brown  and  juicy.  Just  before  serving,  see 
that  there  is  enough  water  for  gravy;  if  there  is  not,  you  can 
take  out  the  meat  and  add  enough,  but  not  too  much,  hot  water, 
and  then  pour  it  over  the  meat. 

Clayton's  Spanish  Omelette. 

Chop  into  dice  \  pound  of  breakfast  bacon,  a  small  tomato, 
4  mushrooms,  mince  very  fine  a  small  onion;  add  pepper  to 
taste,  put  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  slowly  until  the  lean  is  done; 
take  off  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  keep  hot.  This  is  sufficient 
for  6  eggs. 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  67 

Plain  Omelette. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  white  of  8  eggs  separately  until  light,  then 
beat  together;  add  a  little  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  cream.  Have 
in  the  pan  a  piece  of  butter,  and  when  boiling  hot  pour^  in  the 
omelette  and  shake  until  it  begins  to  stiffen;  then  letjt  brown. 
Fold  double  and  serve  hot. 

Clam  Fritters. 
Sift  into  an  earthen  dish  3  spoonfuls  flour  and  \  teaspoonful 
baking  powder;  add  to  this  a  little  of  the  clam  juice,  \  a  cup  of 
cream  and  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mince  a  pint  of  clams  and  mix 
with  the  batter.  Put  2  or  3  spoonfuls  of  lard  into  a  frying-pan, 
and  when  boiling,  drop  in  the  batter,  by  spoonfuls,  to  fry;  after 
frjnng  a  minute,  take  from  the  pan,  drain  and  serve. 

Fried  Tripe. 

If  the  tripe  is  boiled  tender,  cut  in  pieces  2  inches  square, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  in  a  batter  made  of  eggs, 
milk  and  flour,  and  fry  in  sweet  lard,  or  drippings  from  roast  or 
corned  beef. 

Ringed  Potatoes. 

Peel  large  potatoes,  cut  them  round  and  round  as  you  would 
pare  an  apple;  fry  in  the  best  lard  until  a  light  brown;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  serve  hot. 

New  Potatoes  Boiled. 

Wash  and  rub  new  potatoes  with  a  coarse  towel,  drop  in  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  until  done,  taking  care  that  they  are  not 
over  boiled.     Have  ready,  in  a  saucepan,  some  milk  or  cream 


68  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook-Book. 

with  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  drain  ilie 
potatoes,  add  them  to  the  cream  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch, soaked  in  a  little  milk;  let  it  come  to  a  simmer,  and 
serve  at  once. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Take  large  smooth  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  slices  ^  an  inch 
thick,  dip  in  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust  and  fry  a  Ii2:ht  brown, 
in  half  lard  and  half  butter. 

Squash  and  Corn. — Spanish  Style. 

Take  3  small  summer  squashes  and  3  ears  of  corn;  chop  the 
squashes  and  cut  the  corn  from  the  cobs.  Put  into  a  saucej)an 
a  spoonful  of  lard  or  butter,  and  when  very  hot  an  onion;  fry  a 
little;  add  the  corn  and  squash,  i  tomatoe  and  i  green  pepjier, 
cut  small,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  closely  and  stir  frequently  to 
prevent  scorching. 

Pickles. 

To  make  mixed  pickles,  cut  small  cucumbers  crosswise  in 
about  4  pieces;  onions,  if  not  very  small,  in  2,  and  peppers,  if 
the  ordinary  size,  in  4  pieces.  Should  you  have  green  toma- 
toes, cut  them  small.  Use  a  less  amount  of  onions  and  ])e])]>ers 
than  cucumbers;  mix  all  together  with  a  few  bay  leaves.  Next, 
take  a  tub  or  keg,  and,  having  covered  the  bottom  with  fine  salt, 
put  on  a  layer  of  pickles,  adding  alternate  layers  of  each,  leav- 
ing that  of  salt  on  top.  Cover  with  a  cotton  cloth,  and  lay  on 
a  stone  or  wooden  weight.  Let  them  remain  three  days;  then 
take  out,  rinse  in  cold  water,  but  do  not  soak,  and  put  them  in 
a  basket  or  sack  to  drain  for  twelve  hours.  Have  ready  plenty 
of  California  wine  vinegar,  made   hot,  but  not  boiling,  adding 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook-Book.  69 

the  following — cloves,  allspice,  green  ginger,  and  whole  mus- 
tard seed,  with  i  coffee-cup  sugar.  When  the  vinegar  is  at 
scalding  heat  pour  over  the  pickles  and  cover. 

Nice  Picklette. 

Take  4  nice  cabbages,  chopped  fine;  i  quart  onions,  chopped 
fine;  2  quarts— or  sufficient  to  cover  the  mixture — best  wine 
vinegar,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  ground  mustard, 
black  pepper,  cinnamon,  celery  salt,  i  of  mace,  and  i  coffee- 
cup  sugar.  Pack  the  cabbages  and  onions  in  alternate  layers, 
with  a  little  fine  salt  between,  and  let  stand  until  next  day;  then 
scald  the  vinegar  with  the  spices  and  sugar,  and  pour  over  the 
cabbages  and  onions.  Repeat  this  the  next  day;  and  on  the 
third,  heat  the  whole  scalding  hot,  let  it  cool,  and  put  in  jars, 
when  it  is  fit  for  use  at  once- 
Pickled  Tripe. 

Pickled  tripe  is  very  nice — and  that  sold  by  John  Bayle,  in 
the  California  Market,  which  is  cleaned  by  steam  process,  and 
is  quite  tender  and  unsalted  is  a  superior  article.  To  prepare 
for  pickling,  cut  in  pieces  about  four  inches  square,  say  five  or 
six  pounds.  Put  into  a  kettle;  cover  with  boiling  water,  add- 
ing a  handful  of  salt;  let  stand  fifteen  minutes;  take  out  and 
drain,  keeping  warm.  Mix  one-fourth  water  with  the  best  wine 
vinegar — to  which  add  cloves,  allspice  and  mace,  with  i  teacup- 
ful  sugar;  heat,  and  pour  over  the  tripe,  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Tripe  prepared  in  this  way  is  the  best  for  broiling  or  frying. 

To  Cook  Grouse  or  Prairie  Chicken. 

The  best  way  I  have  found  for  cooking  this  delicious  game 
bird  is,   first,  after  cleaning,  to  cut  off  the  wings  and  legs,  as. 


70  Clayiotis  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

with  the  back,  these  parts  are  of  little  account;  next,  split  the 
birds  in  the  centre,  taking  out  the  breast-bone,  and  you  have 
two  heavy  pieces;  if  the  bird  is  large,  divide  again;  do  not  wash, 
but  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
broil  with  butter  quite  rare;  then  lay  in  a  porcelain-lined  pan, 
with  butter  and  currant  or  grape  jelly,  adding  a  litde  cayenne 
pepper,  and  a  small  quantity  of  port  or  white  wine. 
[Venison  steak  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner.] 

Brains  and  Sweet- Breads. 

When  properly  prepared  the  brains  of  calves  and  sheep  form 
a  very  inviting  dish.  Lay  fresh  brains  in  cold,  salted  water  for 
fifteen  minutes;  then  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  parboil  for 
ten  minutes.  After  cleaning  off  the  outer  membrane — for  fry- 
ing— split  them,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  run  them 
through  ^%%,  beaten  with  a  little  milk;  roll  them  in  cracker- 
dust,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  equal  parts  of  sweet  lard  and 
butter. 

For  stewed  brains,  cut  half  the  size  for  frying  and  put  in  a 
stewpan,  with  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  water 
or  soup-stock,  and  one-half  an  onion,  chopped  fine  and  stewed 
tender.  Add  this,  and  cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  when 
put  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  little 
white  wine  or  juice  of  lemon. 

[Sweet-breads  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner.] 

Stewed  Spare -Ribs  of  Pork. 

Cut  the  ribs  in  pieces  of  a  finger's  length  and  the  width  of 
two  fingers.  Put  in  the  kettle  with  two  onions,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cover  with  cold  water.     Let  them  stew  slowly  for  two 


Clayton* s  Quaker  Cook- Book.  71 

hours,  and  then  put  in  3  potatoes,  2  purple-top  turnips, 
which  have  been  peeled  and  cut,  and  left  in  cold  water  at  least 
two  hours;  also  add  two  tomatoes.  This  stew  must  have  plenty 
of  gravy,  which  can  be  made  by  working  a  little  flour  and  but- 
ter with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  rich  milk,  cooking  five  minutes. 

[An  Irish  stew  may  be  made  in  the  foregoing  manner  by 
substituting  ribs  of  mutton.] 

Broiled  Oysters. 
In  order  to  broil  oysters  properly,  take  those  of  the  largest  size, 
drain,  and  dry  in  a  cloth,  and  lay  carefully  on  a  nice  wire  grid- 
iron that  will  hold  them  tight;  sprinkle  slightly  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  put  them  over  a  good  clear  fire  for  a  short  time, 
and  turn,  taking  care  not  to  broil  too  much;  serve  with  the  best 
butter  on  a  hot  dish. 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Custard. 

Take  enough  pumpkin  or  squash  to  make  i  quart  when 
cooked;  and  after  it  is  boiled  or  steamed,  rub  through  a  sieve, 
and  work  in  3  eggs  well  beaten,  with  rich  milk  sufficient  to 
make  the  proper  consistence,  adding  sugar  to  taste;  season  with 
ginger  and  allspice,  and  bake  in  cups  or  dishes  to  a  nice  brown. 
May  be  eaten  hot,  but  is  better  cold. 

Fig  Pudding. 

Take  i  pint  grated  bread  crumbs,  i  cup  suet,  i  cup  brown 
sugar,  2  eggs  and  \  pound  of  fresh  figs.  Wash  the  figs  in  warm 
water,  and  dry  in  a  cloth;  chop  the  suet  and  figs  together,  and 
add  the  other  ingredients,  also  i  nutmeg,  grated.  Put  in  a 
mould  or  floured  bag,  and  boil  3  hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


72  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Fried  Apples. 

Take  6  good  cooking  apples,  cut  in  slices  \  of  an  inch  thick ; 
have  a  pan  of  fresh  hot  lard  ready,  drop  the  slices  in  and  fry 
brown;  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  them  and  serve  hot. 

Clayton's  Oyster  Stew. 

In  my  long  experience  I  have  found  that  ihe  best  way  to  stew 
oysters,  is,  after  having  saved  all  the  juice  of  the  oysters,  lo  put 
it  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  little  boiling  water,  and  a  good  lump  of 
butter  worked  in  a  little  flour,  adding  pepper  and  salt.  Let 
these  boil  for  two  minutes,  or  long  enough  to  cook  the  flour; 
then  put  in  the  oysters,  and  the  moment  the  stew  boils  up  again 
add  a  little  sweet  cream  or  country  milk,  and  when  it  boils  the 
stew  is  cooked  and  should  be  set  away  from  a  hot  fire.  Cooked 
in  this  way,  good  oysters  will  never  be  tough  and  tasteless  as  is 
too  often  the  case.| 

Boiled  Celery. 

Cut  the  white  stalks  of  celery  the  length  of  asparagus,  boil  in 
as  little  salted  water  as  possible  until  quite  tender.  The 
root,  cut  in  slices,  is  equally  good.  Dress  with  drawn  butter 
made  with  the  water  in  which  the  celery  was  boiled.  This 
vegetable  is  said  to  be  a  sedative  and  antidote  to  nervous 
debility. 

Selecting  Meats. 

For  a  roast  of  beef,  select  from  the  ribs  nearest  the  point  of 
the  shoulder-blade,  running  backward.  For  steaks,  choose  that 
with  the  diamond  bone  on  either  side.  For  chops  of  mutton  or 
lamb,  select  the  rib.     For  roasting,  choose  the  loin  or  saddle; 


Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book  73 

and  for  boiling,  the  leg  of  mutton — but  not  of  lamb,  the  latter 
being  best  roasted.  For  corned-beef,  select  parts  commonly 
known  as  the  navel  and  plate  pieces,  and  next  best  to  these, 
the  brisket  and  rounds. 

/ 
Rebecca  Jackson's   Rice  Pudding. 

Take  i  quart  of  rich  milk;  J  of  a  coffee -cup  of  rice,  well 
washed,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  i  nutmeg. 
This  pudding  must  be  made  quite  sweet,  and  without  eggs. 
Bake  three  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  stirring  occasionally  the 
first  hour.  Bake  until  the  top  is  a  dark  brown.  To  be  eaten 
cold. 

[This  pudding — which  was  a  common  dish  in  the  last  cen- 
tury— was  generally  baked  on  Saturday  for  Sunday's  dessert.] 

Bread-and-Butter  Pudding. 

To  I  quart  of  milk,  add  3  or  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  sugar 
enough  to  make  rather  sweet,  and  season  with  nutmeg  or  cin- 
namon Put  in  a  baking-pan  and  cover  with  slices  of  nice 
bread,  buttered  on  both  sides.  Bake  until  the  bread  is  nicely 
browned,  taking  care,  however,  not  to  bake  too  much,  which 
would  make  it  watery.     Good  either  hot  or  cold. 

Codfish  Cakes. 

Pick  boiled  codfish  in  small  biis,  adding  equal  quantities  of 
mashed  potato  and  fish,  with  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  seasoning 
with  black  pepper,  and  roll  in  a  little  flour,  the  shape  of  a 
small  cake.  Fry  in  sweet  lard,  or  nice  drippings,  to  a  nice 
brown,  but  not  hard. 


74  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

Pickled  Grapes. 

Remove  from  ripe  grapes  all  imperfect  and  broken  berries; 
line  an  earthen  jar  with  grape  leaves  and  fill  with  grapes.  To 
2  quarts  vinegar  add  i  pint  white  sugar,  \  ounce  ground  ^-in- 
namon,  and  \  ounce  cloves.  Let  vinegar  and  spices  boil  five 
minutes;  then  add  the  sugar,  and,  when  moderately  cool,  pour 
over  the  grapes. 

Forced  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  slice  some  large- sized  tomatoes,  and  put  in  a  colan- 
der to  drain.  Cut  in  small  pieces  i  pint  of  mushrooms,  adding 
some  minced  parsley,  a  slice  of  finely  chopped  ham,  some 
summer  savory,  thyme,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper.  Put  all  these 
in  a  saucepan  with  some  butter,  and  \  cup  of  water.  Boil 
together  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Have 
ready  some  fine  bread  crumbs,  add  to  them  seasoning,  and  the 
yolks  of  2  or  3  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  the  mushrooms  and 
tomatoes,  together;  pour  into  a  baking-dish  a  portion  of  it; 
then  sprinkle  over  it  a  layer  of  the  bread-crumbs  and  add  the 
remainder  of  the  tomatoes;  cover  with  bread-crumbs,  and  put 
some  bits  of  butter  on  top.     Hake  half-an-hour  in  a  well  heated 

oven. 

Broiled  Flounders  or  Smelts. 

Have  medium-sized  flounders  or  smelts,  cleaned  with  as  little 
cutting  as  possible;  wash  thoroughly  in  salted  water,  and  dry  on 
a  towel;  mix  in  a  saucer  three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  and 
I  of  vinegar,  with  salt  and  pepper;  score  the  sides  of  the  fish  at 
intervals  of  an  inch,  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  rub  all  over  with 
the  mixture  of  oil,  vinegar  and  seasoning.  Place  them  be- 
tween the  bars  of  a  buttered  gridiron,  and  broil  a  light  brown 
over  a  moderate  fire. 


Claytons  Quaker  Cook- Book.  75 

Onions. 

There  is  no  more  healthy  vegetable  or  article  of  diet  in  gen- 
eral use  than  onions.  Taken  regularly,  they  greatly  promote 
the  health  of  the  lungs  and  digestive  organs.  Used  in  a  cooked 
— either  fried,  roasted  or  boiled — or  in  a  raw  state,  their  vir- 
tues are  marked  and  beneficial.  They  are  among  the  most 
popular  of  old-lime  remedies  for  colds,  having  the  advantage 
of  always  being  readily  procured,  and  it  is  said  that  affections  of 
the  lungs  and  liver  have  been  largely  benefitted,  and  even 
cured,  by  a  free  use  of  this  palatable  esculent.  They  are  also 
resorted  to  as  a  sedative  and  remedy  for  sleeplessness. 

Singeing  Fowls. 

The  best  mode  I  have  ever  followed  for  singeing  fowls,  is  to 
put  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  alcohol  in  a  tin  dish  and  light  with 
a  match,  thus  making  a  large  flame,  without  smoke— that  is  apt 
to  injure  the  flavor  of  the  bird. 


The  Secret  of  Tests  of  Taste  and  Flavor, 

The  correct  test  of  coffee  or  tea,  is  to  make  use  of  a  thin 
china  or  delf-ware  cup,  by  which  the  lips  are  brought  close 
together,  while  a  thicker  cup  would  separate  them  widely  apart. 
In  testing  the  quality  and  flavor  of  wines,  the  thinnest  quality 
of  glass  is  for  the  same  reason  essentially  requisite.  Our  grand- 
mothers, who  lived  a  hundred  years  ago,  understood  the  phil- 
osophy of  this  when  they  expressed  the  opinion,  that  it  was  only 
possible  to  get  the  true  taste,  fine  flavor,  and  delicate  aroma  of 
tea,  by  drinking  it  out  of  a  china  cup. 


76  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

How  to  Choose  Ware  for  Ranges. 

In  selecting  ware  for  a  range,  especial  care  should  be  taken 
to  see  that  the  bottoms  of  all  the  cooking  utensils  are  perfectly 
level,  for  if  convex,  they  will  invariably  burn  in  the  centre.  An 
iron  grating  or  grid-iron — \  of  an  inch  in  depth  —  placed 
between  the  pan  and  the  top  of  the  range,  will  be  found  highly 
useful  while  cooking,  as  this  increases  the  heat  and  lessens  the 
liability  of  burning. 

Drying  Herbs  for  Seasoning. 

All  herbs  should  be  gathered  just  before  blossoming  and  dried 
in  the  shade,  or  in  a  dark  dry  room,  as  exposure  to  the  sun  both 
takes  away  flavor  and  color  When  perfectly  dry,  put  in  a  clean 
sack  and  hang  in  a  dry  room  or  loft,  and  when  wanted  for  use, 
rub  through  a  sieve.  Herbs  treated  in  this  way,  if  left  dry,  will 
retain  their  strength  and  remain  perfectly  good  for  years.  As 
long  as  the  outer  membrane  of  the  leaves  remains  unbroken,  the 
aroma  cannot  escape. 

To  Destroy  Roaches,  Flies  and  Ants. 

Take  1 5  cents  worth  of  powdered  borax  and  a  small  bottle  of 
Persian  Insect  Powder,  and  mix  thoroughly  together.  In  order 
to  use  successfully,  take  a  feather  from  the  wing  of  a  turkey  or 
goose,  by  the  quill,  and  dipping  the  feather  end  in  the  powder, 
spring  the  feather  as  a  bow ;  in  this  way  you  can  thoroughly  rid 
the  room  of  flies.  Before  using  on  roaches,  set  the  doors  wide 
open,  as  they  will  start  for  the  open  air;  generally,  however, 
dying  on  the  way  To  rid  cupboards  or  closets  of  ants,  sprinkle 
wherever  these  minute  pests  "most  do  congregate."  An  easy 
and  cheap  remedy  to  rid  pantries  of  cock-roaches  is  said  to  be 


Clavtons  Quaker  Cook-Book,  77 

fresh  cucumber  pairings  laid  in  their  haunts.  We  have  never 
tested  this  remedy,  but  can  vouch  for  the  efficacy  of  the  above 
mentioned  compound. 

To  Clean  Tin- Ware. 

The  best  thing  for  cleaning  tin  ware  is  common  soda; 
datnpen  a  cloth,  dip  it  in  the  soda,   rub  the    ware  briskly,  after 

which  wipe  dry. 

Iron  Rust. 

Iron  rust  may  be  removed  by  a  little  salt  mixed  with  lemon - 
juice;  put  in  the  sun,  and  if  necessary  use  two  applications. 

Mildew. 

An  old  time  and  effectual  remedy  for  mildew  is  to  dip  the 
stained  cloth  in  buttermilk  and  lay  in  the  sun. 

Oysters  Roasted  on  Chafing-Dish. 

Take  largest  oysters,  and  put  in  a  chafing-dish  in  their  own 
liquor.  Season  with  red  or  black  pepper,  adding  plenty  of 
good  butter,  with  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  or  walnut  catsup. 
After  roasting — taking  care  not  to  roast  too  much — serve  on 
buttered  toast. 

Codfish,  Family  Style. 

After  the  fish  has  been  soaked  twelve  hours,  boil  slowly  for 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes,  or  until  it  will  break  up  nicely. 
Then  pick  all  the  bones  out,  but  do  not  pick  the  fish  too  fine. 
Have  ready  three  hard-boiled  eggs;  rub  the  yolks  in  plenty  of 
good  butter;  put  into  the  kettle  enough  milk  to  heat  the  fish; 
when  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  with  the  fish.  At  the  same  time 
have  potatoes  peeled  and  boiled.  Cut,  not  too  small,  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  cut  small;  season  with  pepper.  Serve  H©t 
with  buttered  toast  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 


78  Clayioris  Quaker  Cook-Book. 

Codfish  in  Philadelphia  Style. 

After  soaking  and  boiling  the  fish,  break  up  small,  and  pick- 
ing out  all  the  bones,  have  ready  potatoes,  peeled  and  boiled, 
equal  to  the  amount  of  fish.  Put  them  in  a  wooden  bowl  or 
tray.  Pound  or  mash  well  with  a  potato  masher.  Work  to 
soft  dough,  with  butter  and  well- beaten  eggs,  and  milk  or  cream. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  if  salt  is  required.  Put  it  in  a  dish 
suitable  to  set  on  the  table,  and  bake  a  few  minutes,  or  until 
light  brown. 


She  I^ai^ting  r?oui^. 


There's  something  in  the  parting  hour 

Will  chill  the  warmest  heart, 
Yet  kindred,  comrades,  lovers,  friends, 

Are  fated  all  to  part. 
But,  this  I've  seen,  and  many  a  pang  has  pressed  it  on  my  mind, 
The  one  who  goes  is  happier  than  those  he  leaves  behind. 

No  matter  what  the  journey  be, 

Adventurous,  dangerous,  far; 
To  the  wild  bleak  or  deep  frontier. 

To  solitude  or  war; 
Still  fortune  cheers  the  heart  that  dares,  in  all  of  human  kiml, 
And  those  who  go  are  happier  than  those  they  leave  behind. 

The  bride  goes  to  the  bridegroom's  home 

With  doublings  and  with  tears. 
But,  does  not  Hope  her  rainbow  spread 

Across  her  cloudy  fears  ? 
Alas!  the  mother  who  remains,  what  comfort  can  she  find,  but  this: 
The  one  that's  gone  is  happier  than  the  one  she  leaves  behind. 


Clay  ion's  Quaker  Cook- Book.  79 

Have  you  a  friend,  a  comrade  dear, 

An  old  and  valued  friend  t 
Be  sure  your  term  of  sweet  concourse 

At  length  must  have  an  end; 
And  when  you  part,  as  part  you  will,  oh  !  take  it  not  unkind, 
If  he,  who  goes,  is  happier  than  you  he  leaves  behind. 

(jod  wills  it  so!  and  so  it  is; 

The  Pilgrims  on  their  way, 
Though  weak  and  worn,  more  cheerful  are 

Than  all  the  rest  who  stay. 
And  when  at  last,  poor  man,  subdued,  lies  down  to  death  resigned, 
May  he  not  still  be  happier  far  than  those  he  leaves  behind? 


In  Sghool  Days. 


Still  sits  the  school -house  by  the  road, 

A  ragged  beggar  sunning; 
Around  it  still  the  sumachs  grow, 

And  blackberry  vines  are  running. 

Within  the  master's  desk  is  seen. 
Deep  scarred  by  raps  official; 

The  warping  floor,  the  battered  seats. 
The  jack-knife's  carved  initial. 

Long  years  ago,  one  winter's  sun 

Shone  over  it  at  setting; 
Lit  up  the  western  window  pane. 

And  low  eaves  icy  fretting. 

It  shone  upon  the  tangled  curls, 
And  brown  eyes  full  of  grieving, 

Of  one  who  still  her  steps  delayed, 
While  all  the  school  were  leaving. 


8o  Clayton's  Quaker  Cook- Book. 

For  near  her  stood  the  little  boy 
Her  childish  favor  singled; 

His  cap  was  pulled  low  on  his  brow, 
Where  pride  and  shame  were  mingled. 

With  restless  foot  he  pushed  the  snow 
To  right  and  left;  he  lingered; 

As  restlessly  her  tiny  hands 
The  blue  checked  apron  fingered. 

He  saw  her  lift  her  eyes, 

He  felt  the  soft  hand's  light  caressing. 
He  heard  the  trembling  of  her  voice, 

As  if  a  fault  confessing. 

•'  I'm  sorry  that  I  spelt  the  word, 

I  hate  to  go  above  you," 
"  Because" — the  brown  eyes  lower  fell — 

*'  Because,  you  see,  I  love  you." 

Still,  memory  to  a  gray -haired  man, 
That  sweet  child  face  is  showing; 

Dear  girl,  the  grasses  o'er  her  grave 
Have  forty  years  been  growing; 

He  lives  to  learn  in  Life's  hard  school 
How  few  who  pass  above  him. 

Lament  their  triumph  and  his  loss, 
Like  her,  because  she  loves  him. 


Let  fate  do  her  worst!  there  are  relics  of  joy, 

Bright  dreams  of  a  past,  which  she  cannot  destroy; 
Which  came  in  the  night-time  of  sorrow  and  care, 

And  bring  back  the  features  that  joy  used  to  wear. 
Long  be  my  heart  with  such  memories  filled, 

Like  the  vase  in  which  roses  have  once  been  distilled; 
You  may  break,  you  may  shatter  that  vase,  if  you  will. 

But  the  scent  of  the  roses  will  hang  round  it  still! 

Thomas  Moore. 


Advertisements.  103 

W,  W,  MONTAGUK  &  Co, 

■#►  ALL  SIZES  FOR  ^ 

||otels,  l|oarding  )|ouses, 

RESTAORANTS  AND  FAMILIES. 


Granite  and  Agate  Iron- Ware 

— i  A.NDi — - 

POLISHED  IRON-WARE. 

MANUFACTUREBS  OF 


Nos.  309  to  317  MARKET  STREET, 

MN  FRAMISeO,  SAL. 


I04  Advertisements. 

MARK  SHELDON, 

Wholesale   nealET   in 

Sewing  Mas^iHeS  and  Supplies, 

QEJISTEJII  A.I_,      ^A-QBrCT     FOR      THE 

"New^    How-e,"  FAMILY 

"  Hotiselnolcl,"  \sEWING- 

''Q\x&Qr\r   and  I        MACHINES. 

"June    Singer,"  / 

HOWE  "A,"  "B,"  "C,"  and  "D" 

AND 

Davis      VLaniafactnring     IVLachiines, 

NATIONAL    NEEDLE    COMPANY. 

EXCELSIOR    NEEELE    CDMPilNY, 

"Excelsior"  Sewing  Machine  Oil, 

''Magic"  Plaiting  Boards,  ''icme"  Oil-Kan  Holders,  Etc. 


ATTACHMENTS  AND  PARTS  FOR  ALL  MACHINES. 

NOS,     ©,     11     AND     13      KlF'JST      STREKT, 
San     Fpancisco,    Cal, 


