I»« 


•TX 
7*5 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 

-^7^1^ 

@]^ap*-— -  ©up^rigy  !f  a. 

Shelf  ....H^-SS 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


♦CUOlJt)*ClTY' 


■♦ «         » 

ooki 


ook. 


lid  Democrat  Steam  Print, 
Leadville,  Colorado. 


-^^^ 


^1:11 


r/;  T^ 


A: 


@ 


/./:?.  ^  >6/.   J^i^^ 


;%^   //?... /V-  *: 


LEADVILLE,  COLORADO; 

Herald  Democrat  Steam   Book  and  ^ob  Printing  House. 

I  889. 


^Pk^e  face 


"Of  making  many  books  there  is  no  end,"  said  a  wise  man; 
but  probably  he  had  good  cooks.  There  is  a  "place"  for  all 
things  as  well  as  a  "time,"  and  every  hungry  man  knows  the 
place  for  a  good  dinner.  If  the  shortest  road  to  man's  heart  is 
by  way  of  his  stomach,  then  the  projectors  of  this  little  volume 
think  they  have  struck  it  rich.  So,  like  all  other  authors,  we  have 
written  to  meet  a  "long  felt  want."  There  are  cook-books  and 
cook-books,  but  who  ever  saw  a  cook-book  for  "  Cloud  City"? 
It  is  a  well-established  fact  that  in  a  high  altitude  the  science 
culinary  has  its  local  and  peculiar  laws.  It  is  commonly  held 
that  a  different  proportion  of  ingredients  is  necessary,  as  well  as 
a  different  Jength  of  time.  It  is  even  claimed  by  some  that 
more  fuel  is  required  here  than  in  a  lower  altitude.  Be  this  as  it 
may,  it  is  well  established  that  the  husband,  who  has  recently 
brought  his  wife  from  the  East,  is  not  in  healthy  employment 
when  he  reminds  her  of  the  superior  ([uality  of  his  mother's 
cooking.  He  must  wait  until  she  has  learned  the  new  conditions 
in  her  new  world.  Without  a  scientific  explanation  of  why  the 
boiling  point  is  reached  at  lower  temperature  here  than  at  lower 
altitude,  or  whether  this  one  fact  accounts  for  the  necessity  of 
different  proportions  of  ingredients  in  cookery,  the  Ladies  of 
the  Congregational  Church  gracefully  bow  themselves  before  the 
public  with  a  genuine  blessing  to  every  family.  Poor  cooking 
is  responsible  for  much  of  the  wretched  health  of  women  and 
children,  and  much  of  the  drinking  habit  among  men.  If,  by 
gathering  together  in  this  little  volume  the  wisest  experience, 
wrought  out  in  the  peculiar  conditions  of  this  lofty  altitude,  we 
are  able  to  bring  peace  and  happiness  to  the  home,  our  ambition 
shall  have  been  amply  satisfied. 

Ladies  Congre(;ational  Church. 


A'^''<i 


i 


V 


PEA    SOUP. 

Parboil  the  peas  in  saleratus  water  (one  heaping  teaspoon  to 
kettle  two-thirds  full  of  water),  then  wash  well  and  put  in  to 
boil  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork.  Season  to  taste,  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  onions  previously  fried  in  butter.  Add  dried  bread 
crumbs  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Bailey. 


TOMATO    SOUP. 

One  quart  of  tomatoes,  or  a  two-pound  can  of  tomatoes,  to 
which  add  one  quart  water,  one-half  of  a  small  onion  sliced^  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  in  which  rub  a  large  table- 
spoon of  flour,  and  boil  slowly  one  hour.  Just  before  serving, 
strain  the  soup  and  add  one  pint  of  scalded  milk. 


BLACK    BEAN    SOUP. 

One  pint  of  black  beans,  a  small  joint  or  shank  of  beef,  a 
slice  of  salt  pork.  Soak  the  beans  over  night,  drain  off  the 
water,  and  put  them  into  the  kettle  with  the  meat,  and  cover 
with  water.  Boil  about  five  hours;  strain  through  the  colander. 
Season  with  red  pepper  and  a  little  wine.  Add  the  yolks  of 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  and  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  Werner. 


VEGETABLE    SOUP. 

Boil  a  soup-bone  all  day  in  plenty  of  water;  strain  it,  add  a 
little  salt,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  In  the  morn- 
ing, boil  steadily  until  about  an  hour  before  dinner,  when  season 


6  SOUPS. 

to  taste,  and  add  one  large  onion,  part  of  a  carrot,  little  cab- 
bage, one  tomato,  part  of  a  turnip,  one  potato,  all  chopped  very 
fine. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


ONION    SOUP. 

Four  large  onions,  cut  up  (not  sliced),  six  ounces  of  butter, 
salt,  cayenne,  soup  stock,  with  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-fourth  of 
a  loaf  of  bread  cut  in  very  thin  slices  and  dried,  two  tablespoons 
of  grated  cheese.  Slowly  stir  the  onions  in  the  butter  one  hour, 
stirring  frequently,  being  very  careful  not  to  brown;  add  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne  and  stock,  and  cook  one  hour  longer.  Add 
one-third  as  much  stock.  Have  in  the  tureen  the  bread  and 
cheese.  Beat  up  the  eggs  with  a  ladle  full  of  soup;  pour  this  on 
the  bread,  cover  close,  and  stand  five  minutes.  Add  the  rest  of 
the  soup  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Werner. 


MACARONI    SOUP. 

One  gallon  soup  stock,  five  sticks  macaroni,  one  onion.     Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.     Boil  well. — Mrs.  Huch  Parry. 


VEAL    SOUP. 

Two  legs  of  veal,  put  on  with  boiling  water  and  skimmed  ; 
when  skimmed,  add  butter.  Prepare  rice  by  boiling.  When  the 
soup  is  done,  remove  bone  and  meat,  strain,  add  rice,  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  Beat  yolk  of  egg  in  dish  with  a  little  water, 
add  chopped  parsley,  little  nutmeg;  then  pour  over  soup  and 
serve. 

RICE    SOUP. 

One  quart  of  water,  one-fourth  cup  of  rice,  piece  of  butter, 
yolk  of  egg,  chopped  parsley,  little  nutmeg.  Stir  the  yolk  of 
the  egg,  add  parsley  and  nutmeg;   i)our  over  the  soup  and  serve. 


NOODLE    SOUP. 

Boil  two  good,  fat  old  chickens  until  all  that  is  good  of  them 
is  extracted  for  the  broth.     For  the  noodles,  take  two  eggs,  a 


SOUPS.  7 

pinch  of  salt,  three  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  in  two  very  thin  sheets;  let  dry  until 
they  will  roll  without  breaking.  Lay  the  sheets  together,  roll  up 
tight,  and  cut  as  fine  as  possible  with  a  sharp  knife  into  little 
ribbons.  Thrown  the  noodles  into  the  boiling  broth  about  twenty 
minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  Werner 


ASPARAGUS    OR    CELERY   SOUP. 

Six  bunches  of  asparagus,  cooked  thoroughly  and  pressed 
through  a  sieve  ;  one  quart  of  milk,  half  pound  butter,  and  four 
tablespoons  flour.  Mix  flour  and  butter  together,  and  let  boil 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  milk,  then  the  asparagus,  stirring  well 
but  not  boiling.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  not 
perfectly  white,  strain  again,  and  serve  hot.  If  celery  is  used, 
three  bunches  are  sufficient ;  the  soup  to  be  made  same  as 
above. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


St^t^i^ 


YEAST. 

Peal  and  boil  eight  common-sized  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  with  one  handful  of  hops  tied  up  in  a  thin  bag.  When 
the  potatoes  are  done,  mash  them  fine,  add  one  pint  of  flour, 
one  tablespoon  ginger,  and  one-half  cup  sugar;  mix  thoroughly, 
then,  having  added  more  water  to  make  up  for  what  has  boiled 
away,  turn  on  the  water  in  which  the  potatoes  and  hops  were 
boiled,  boiling  l*)t,  stirring  it  well.  When  quite  warm,  but  not 
hot,  add  one  cup  of  yeast.  After  it  is  done  working,  add  one 
tablespoon  salt. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Bailev. 


GRAHAM    BREAD. 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  one  and  a  half  cups  sour  milk,  one 
tablespoon  N.  O.  molasses,  one  scant  tablespoon  soda,  one  table- 
spoon salt, — Miss  F.  L.  Ranmond. 


BISCUIT. 

One  (piart  flour,  one  cup  lard,  two  teaspoons  Price's  baking 
powder,  sifted  with  flour.  Salt.  Mix  with  milk  to  roll  soft, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Bro()ks. 


YEAST. 
Boil  six  potatoes  until  soft,  mash  them  through  a  colander, 
add  enough  of  the  water  they  were   boiled  in  to  make  a  thin 
batter  ;  then  six  tablespoons  sugar.     Stir  all  together  with  a  large 
cup  full  of  fresh  yeast,  and  \mt  in  a  warm  place  over  night. 


►>>l">>»I«yOO 


S.  N.  DWIGHT,  President.  M.  H.  WILLIAMS,  Vice-President. 

J.  N.  WALLING,  Casiiier.  T.  H.  LEE,  Ass't  Casiiier. 


-ij-^*— >t 


^^^.^:^C^^i>^„.       ^.^     ^^.. 


Tie  Aiiericai  Miial  Bat 


--^-^ ^r> 


liERDVlliliE,    COliO. 


Capital, 


$100,000. 


Dlt^ECTOI^S: 

M.  H.  Williams,  T.  G.  Roberts,  H.  S.  Dickerman, 

S.  T.  KosTiTCH,  Daniel  Sayer, 

George  P.  Copeland,  Chas.  A.  Seymour,  Sam.  Mayer, 

George  E.  Taylor,  J.  N.  Walling, 

S.   N.   DWIGHT. 
•  ♦  ^?<C  ♦ 


A  general  banking  business  transacted.  Deposits  received  pay- 
able on  demand.  Time  loans  made  on  satisfactory  security  and 
commercial  paper  discounted.  Drafts  issued  on  principal  cities  of 
United  States  and  Europe.  Careful  attention  given  to  collections. 
All  customers  treated  in  the  most  liberal  manner  consistent  with 
sound  banking. 


d@OOOOOQ^Oi@Q^»>>>>>>>>>>>>%>>>>:»:»'»>>%>%%'«i,^^ 


FfllRBANK'S^SOflPS. 


WHITE  8TRR,  100  Bars, 

-     75 

50    " 

-     37 

25     " 

-     181 

MRSCOT,        100     " 

-     75 

CLRIRETTE,    100     " 

-     75 

FRIRY,  Large,  100     " 

-      66 

"     Small,  100    •• 

-      37. 

75  Pounds, 


GOLD  DUST  POWDER,  24  Pack'os,  72 

The  above  Soaps  are  skillfully  manufac- 
tured from  the  very  best  material,  and  are 
not  excelled  in   quality  by  any  in   the  world. 

Yours  truly, 

N.  K.  Fairbank  &  Co., 

Faetonies  :     St.    Uouis   and   Chicago. 

The  above  goods  are  carried  In  stock  and  can  be  obtained  from 


BREAD,    YEAST,    GEMS,  ETC. 


HOP  YEAST. 

Boil  four  large  potatoes,  and  at  the  same  time  stee])  a  fourth 
package  of  hops  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  Mash  the 
potatoes  through  a  colander,  strain  over  them  four  cups  of  the 
hop  water  ;  add  one  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  salt ;  thicken  with 
flour  to  the  consistency  of  batter  cakes.  Add  one-half  cup 
yeast,  and  leave  it  uncovered  in  a  jar  to  rise.  Use  one-half  a 
cup  of  this  for  four  loaves  of  bread. — Mrs.  Werner. 


GRAHAM   GEMS. 

One  pint  graham  flour,  one  pint  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
pint  sour  milk,  little  salt,  and  small  teaspoon  soda. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Nash.  

MUFFINS. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  small  teaspoon 
salt,  two  large  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  for  stiff  batter. 
Drop  in  hot  muffin  pans. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Raymond. 


GRAHAM    GEMS. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  tablespoon  of  molasses,  pinch  of  salt,  half 
teaspoon  soda,  graham  flour. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


BOSTON    BROWN    BREAD. 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses, two  cups  Indian  meal,  two  cups  graham  flour,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Steam  five  hours.  Bake  one-half  hour 
in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Raymond. 


BROWN    BREAD. 

Four  cups  milk,  three  cups  Indian  meal,  one  cup  graham  flour, 
one  cup  flour,  one  cup  molasses,  one  egg,  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Steam  five  or  six 
hours.  Bake  half  an  hour.  (This  rule  requires  a  five-pound 
lard  pail  to  steam). — Mrs.  W.  H.  Nash. 


BREAD,    YEAST,    GEMS,  ETC. 


GRAHAM   GEMS. 

Two  cups  graham  meal,  two  cups  flour,  three  cups  sour  milk, 
two  large  spoons  sugar.  Salt.  Soda  according  to  condition  of 
the  milk. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Bailey. 


GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  half  tea- 
spoon soda^  one  small  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  with  flour. 
— Mrs.  Guilbault. 

POTATO  BREAD. 

Six  good-sized  potatoes,  boiled  and  well  mashed  ;  one  pint 
or  more  of  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  one  cup  of 
yeast  for  the  sponge.  Set  the  sponge  in  a  warm  place  over 
night.  In  the  morning,  when  kneading  the  bread  add  a  little 
salt,  little  sugar,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  sufficient  luke-warm 
water  to  make  six  loaves  of  bread. — Mrs.   Hugh  Parry. 


GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

One  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  two  cups  of  water, 
three  cups  flour,  one  yeast  cake  to  start.  Let  it  rise  over  night; 
in  the  morning  add  two  eggs  and  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  and 
milk  to  form  a  thin  batter.  The  batter  left  can  be  used  succes- 
sive mornings,  the  same  as  buckwheats. 


RUSK. 
One  pint  milk  and  one  pint  sugar;  warm  slightly,  add  one- 
half  cup  yeast,  raisins  and  some  flour.  Let  set  over  night,  and 
in  the  morning  add  salt,  three  beaten  eggs,  one  heaping  cup 
melted  butter  and  more  flour.  Let  it  rise,  then  make  into  rolls 
and  when  light  bake. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Simons. 


BISCUIT. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in 
flour,  one  small  teaspoon  salt,  lard  size  of  a  walnut,  moulded 
with  flour.     Mould  well. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Raymond. 


BREAD,   YEAST,   GEMS,  ETC. 


BROWN    BREAD. 

One  quart  corn  meal,  one  pint  flour,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  yeast,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  salt,  four  cups  cold 
water.  Mix  well  the  meal,  flour  and  salt,  make  a  hole  in  the 
middle,  put  in  the  molasses,  yeast  and  soda,  stir  it  well,  then 
add  the  water  a  cupful  at  a  time.  Steam  six  or  seven  hours, 
bake  two  hours. — Mrs.   C.  H.   Bailey. 


JOHNNY   CAKE. 

Two  coffee  cups  meal,  one  and  one-half  coffee  cups  flour, 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  sour  milk.  Stir  well. — Mrs.  H. 
D.  LeOxMard. 


&ji!ji!H<i^ 


CABBAGE    SALAD. 

One  medium  head  cabbage,  three  eggs  beaten,  six  table- 
spoons cream,  and  three  of  melted  butter,  (or  five  tablespoons 
milk  and  four  of  butter),  one  teaspoon  or  more  of  mustard,  one 
of  pepper,  one  of  salt,  one  coffee-cup  strong  vinegar  heated 
until  it  thickens  but  not  boils.  Mix  with  the  cabbage  when  hot. 
Cover  tightly. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


CHICKEN    SALAD. 

One  chicken,  smothered ;  when  cold,  cut  in  small  pieces; 
do  not  use  a  chopping  knife.  Prepare  as  much  celery  as  chicken, 
two  medium-sized  cucumber  pickles  cut  up  ;  also,  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  left  from  the  dressing.  This  part  of  salad  may  be  mixed 
at  once,  as  it  does  not  hurt  to  stand,  and  the  dressing  poured 
over  just  before  it  is  used. 

DRESSINC;. 

Yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  mashed  to  a  smooth  paste, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  two  of  mus- 
tard, two  of  sugar,  four  of  salad-oil,  one  small  teacup  of  good 
vinegar.  Pour  over  chicken,  and  mix  with  a  fork;  do  not 
stir  it.     This  is  enough  for  eight  persons. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Henslee. 


COLD    SLAW. 

One  small  head  of  cabbage  and  one  onion,  chopped  fine; 
add  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  cup  vinegar, 
and  a  little  pepper. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


SALADS.  13 

COLD    SLAW. 

One-third  pint  vinegar,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  two  of 
cream,  one  of  butter,  two  eggs  beaten  with  cream.  Cook  vine- 
gar, sugar  and  butter  together;  when  boiUng,  add  eggs  and 
cream,  cooking  until  thick.  Chop  the  cabbage  fine,  adding 
celery,  if  obtainable;  if  not,  celery  salt;  then  pour  over  it  the 
dressing. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Simons. 


POTATO    SALAD. 

Pare  six  or  eight  large  potatoes,  boil  until  done,  and  slice 
thin  while  hot.  Peel  and  cut  up  a  white  onion  in  small  bits  and 
mix  with  the  potatoes.  Cut  up  some  breakfast  bacon  in  small 
bits,  sufficient  to  fill  a  teacup,  and  fry  it  a  light  brown.  Remove 
the  meat,  and  into  the  grease  stir  three  tablespoons  vinegar, 
making  a  sour  gravy,  which,  with  the  bacon,  pour  over  the  potato 
and  onion.  Mix  lightly.  To  be  eaten  when  hot. — Mrs.  Mc- 
Kenzie, 

WINTER    SALAD. 

Two  boiled  potatoes  pressed  through  a  sieve,  one  spoonful 
mustard,  two  of  salt,  three  of  olive  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  little  onion  chopped  fine,  one  spoonful 
anchovy  sauce  added  last. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


CABBAGE    SLAW. 

Boil  one  cup  of  vinegar,  melt  in  it  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  Beat  together  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  each  mustard, 
sugar,  salt,  and  half  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  the  boiling  vinegar 
on  this  mixture.  Stir  it  well,  then  put  back  on  the  stove  and 
boil  one  minute.     Pour  this  on  the  cabbage. — Mrs.  McKenzie. 


SALAD    DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  wet  mustard,  one-half  cup 
vinegar,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  tea- 
spoons butter.  Heat  vinegar  and  butter,  add  other  ingredients, 
and  cook  until  thick  as  cream. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Dimick. 


14  SALADS. 

CARROT  SALAD. 

Select  tender,  rich  colored  carrots,  scrape  and  boil  them  in 
fast-boiling  water  until  tender;  cut  in  thin  slices  and  put  in  a 
glass  salad  bowl.  Sprinkle  with  sifted  loaf  sugar,  add  the  juice 
of  a  large,  fresh  lemon,  and  a  wineglass  of  olive  oil.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  very  thin  slices  of  onion,  or  any  fresh,  green  salad 
leaves, — Mrs.  John  Alfred. 

EGG    SALAD. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  quite  fine,  one-fourth  of  a  cabbage 
chopped.     Mix  well  together. 

DRESSING. 

Three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  one  small  teaspoon  each 
of  pepper  and  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  prepared  mustard.  Mix 
together  and  pour  over  salad. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Frear. 


SALAD    DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  or  one  whole  egg,  well  beaten,  added  to 
five  tablespoons  boiling  vinegar.  Add  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg. 
Cook  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  When  cool,  season  to  taste 
with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard.  Thin  with  sweet  cream  to  the 
required  consistency. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


POTATO  SALAD. 

Boil  ten  or  twelve  medium-sized  potatoes,  not  too  soft,  cool 
a  little,  peel  and  slice;  add  pepper  and  salt,  two  tablespoons 
vinegar  (be  careful  with  vinegar  not  to  make  it  too  sour),  two 
tablespoons  hot  water,  a  little  onion  cut  very  fine.  Let  it  stand 
half  an  hour ;  then  adcT  two  or  three  spoons  olive  oil.  Mix 
well,  then  serve.     To  be  eaten  with  cold  meats. — Mrs.  Werner. 


EGG    SALAD. 
Two  dozen  eggs,  boiled  hard  and  chopped  not  too  fine,  equal 
quantity  of  celery.     Mix  with  Durkee's  Salad  Dressing  to  taste. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  lettuce  and  serve.     This  is  sufficient  for 
ten  or  twelve  persons. 


SALADS. 


15 


CABBAGE    SLAW. 

Take  a  medium  head  cabbage,  chop  fine,  with  one  tablespoon 
of  salt ;  squeeze  the  water  out  thoroughly  with  your  hands,  then 
pour  one-half  cup  vinegar  over. 

DRESSINC;. 

Three  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  two  tablespoons  condensed 
milk.  Season  with  pepper.  Beat  together  with  one-half  teacup 
boiling  water  ;  cook  five  minutes  and  pour  over  the  cabbage.  It 
is  then  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  P.  B.  Turnbull. 


♦  ]^?^  ♦ 

MINCE    PIES. 

Four  pounds  of  beef,  twelve  pounds  of  apples,  one-half  pound 
salt  pork,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  four  pounds  of  raisins,  one 
pound  of  citron,  four  ounces  of  cassia,  two  of  nutmeg,  one  of 
cloves,  one  pint  molasses,  one  quart  of  boiled  cider,  or  one  quart 
of  good  vinegar. — Mrs.  Taylor. 


MOCK    MINCE    PIES. 

Five  large  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  and  a  half  cups  molasses, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  vinegar,  two  cups  chopped 
raisins,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  cold  water,  a 
little  salt,  one  teaspoon  each  all  kinds  of  spices.  Put  all  together 
and  cook  until  thick.  This  will  make  four  pies. — Mrs.  L.  A. 
Grover. 

LEMON    PIE. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water;  pour  on  one  coffee-cup  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  it 
puffs  up;  take  off  the  stove  and  add  two-thirds  coffee-cup  sugar, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  small  lump  of  butter,  and  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  two  lemons. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Simons. 


PIE-CRUST. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  one  large  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  scant  cup  lard,  one  large  cup  water.  Mix 
rather  soft.  Take  part  of  crust  and  roll  in  butter  for  top  crust. — 
Miss  Price. 


iillllll Hill llllllrmllilli.Mlllll|limlllIlllli»ll]il]:millil iJllliiiiilillllmlllllLl l]ll)lii  illllll lllllliMillllll lilllliiirllllliiiilllly ijlllliiilili' ljll)l lilllli 


VIfT\.  TTT 


jl4'.«^ 


iV  \  i 


4M,( 


^WILL  BE  FOUND  AT^ 


m  M  Siitli  street 

Minm  fJAY  istii,  \m.kk., 


•5:5— ^ WITH  A  FULL  LINE  0F-«^ 


Dry  *  Goods 

And  Notions. 


"iifii""iiuiii ifii'i'iiifi fi iTipi"iiiifiiiiiiifii"iiifi"iiifiiiiNi7piiiiiiipiiiiiTi|[iiiiiiii]([riii'iii|iiMiiipi.iNiipn^ 

rllllil]llirlll]llillirllLlllilliillllll]l llllllliilllilliii!!l]lll llllll.iiilllilllmillilniiilljllllniilljll)! [lilllmlllJillliiirlllllll llIllliiiiiilil)lm.lllillliHillIlliiiillliill lllllli.iillillllii 


******^J'^iJ' 


CORNER' BOOK*  STORE. 


-K>«=<^ 


|eHN  ReWLAND  ^  60,, 

stationers  anil  Booksellers, 

Intlsts     rHaterials,  purveyors    ^upplies, 

tfolc!    rens,  ypera   (glasses, 

Qeaal     Dlanl?s. 


J-BYEF^Y    FACILITY    POI^*^ 


tl-£^iy  Ai.\  ^*^ 


In  the  (Tlost  Approved  (TlanneP. 


CORNER  HARRISON  Ml  BND  FOURTH  8T„ 

Leadville,  Colorado. 


PIES.  17 

CREAM    PIE. 

Whip  one  quart  of  stiff  cream,  add  sugar  and  vanilla  to  your 
taste.  Line  pie-plates  with  crust,  and  prick  with  a  fork  before 
baking.  When  cool,  fill  with  the  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Pax- 
ton. 

LEMON    PIE, 

Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon,  add  one  tablespoon  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  one  teacup  boiling  water,  one 
whole  egg  and  the  yolks  of  two.  Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
for  the  meringue,  and  brown  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


SWEET    POTATO    PIE. 

Boil  or  bake  sufficient  sweet  potatoes  to  make  a  pint  of  pulp 
when  rubbed  through  a  colander ;  add  a  pint  of  milk,  a  small 
cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  lemon 
extract.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  lined  with  rich  crust.  When 
done,  beat  the  w'hites  with  a  little  powdered  sugar  for  top,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


ILEMON  PIE. 
The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  one  teacup  sugar,  two  eggs  (reserving  the  white  of 
one),  one  cup  boiling  water.  Mix  all  together  and  cook,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  thickens;  pour  it  in  the  crust  and  bake.  Beat 
the  white  with  three  spoons  sugar  and  spread  on  top;  return  to 
the  oven  and  brown  lightly. — Mrs.  McKenzie. 


CREAM    PIE. 

One  pint  of  milk  put  in  a  steamer ;  let  it  come  to  aboil; 
then  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch  and 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  together.  Flavor  with  lemon. 
When  cool,  have  crust  baked  ready  for  filling.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  spread  on  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  Hugh 
Parry. 


1 8  PIES. 

ENGLISH    APPLE    PIE. 

Small  piece  of  butter  in  pan,  add  apple  sauce,  then  cover 
with  crust  and  bake;  add  apple  and  crust  and  bake  again,  and 
so  on  until  pan  is  filled.     Serve  with  hot  sauce. — Mrs.  Paxton. 


CREAM    PIE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  ^gg,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  essence  of  bitter  almonds.  This  makes  two  cakes,  baked  in 
round  shallow  tins. 

CREAM    FOR    FILLING. 

One  scant  pint  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  the  milk,  add  flour 
moistened  smoothly  with  cold  milk,  then  sugar  and  eggs ;  let  it 
boil  to  the  consistency  of  cream.  Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  two  tablespoons  sugar  for  the  meringue.  Cut  open  the 
warm  cakes,  put  cream  between  and  meringue  on  top.  Brown 
the  two  pies  in  the  oven. — Mrs,  Hugh  Parry. 


i^'C^'-' 


■    ♦  ^A^C  ♦ 

WHITE   CAKE. 

Whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  one  and  a  third  cups  sugar, 
one  scant  half  cup  butter,  three  cups  sifted  flour,  one  cup  sweet 
niilk,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder  mixed  in  the  flour.  Mix 
butter  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  gradually  milk  and  flour,  sifting 
the  flour  in,  then  the  whites  of  eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon. — Mrs. 
J.  B.  Henslee. 

GINGER   COOKIES. 

Two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  water,  one  large 
cup  butter,  one  tablespoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  little 
cinnamon.     Flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs.  Wm.  Pemberthy, 


CHEAP  CREAM    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  egg, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flavor  to 
taste.     Bake  in  layers. 

FILLING. 

One  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  flour  mixed  with 
a  little  cold  milk,  and  stirred  into  one  cup  boiling  milk.  Boil 
until  thick  enough.     Flavor. — Miss  Cora  Paddock. 


TEA  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flour  enough  for  pretty  thick  batter.  One  teaspoon  lemon 
or  vanilla  extract.  Bake  in  kot  gem  pans. — Miss  F.  L.  Ray- 
mond. 


io  CAKE. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon 
ginger  and  one  of  soda.  Beat  molasses,  egg,  butter  and  part  of 
flour  together;  pour  a  cup  of  boiling  water  on  soda,  add  it  to 
mixture,  then  remainder  of  flour,  beating  thoroughly. — Mrs.  O. 
H.  Simons 

COOKIES. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  cream.  Melt 
the  sugar  and  pour  over  the  butter.  Stir  while  it  melts.  After 
it  is  cold,  cream  it  and  stir  in  the  sweet  cream ;  after  putting  in 
the  cream  and  mixing  thoroughly,  add  an  even  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Beat  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  and  put  in,  but  do 
not  mix  until  you  have  added  some  flour.  Mix  them  as  soft  as 
possible,  taking  them  up  from  the  table  with  a  knife.  The 
less  flour  the  better.  Use  extra  C  sugar;  you  cannot  use  granu- 
lated sugar. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Hanna. 


ANGEL    FOOD. 

The  whites  of  eleven  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  a  tumbler 
and  a  half  each  of  flour  and  pulverized  sugar.  Sift  the  sugar 
and  flour  twice,  adding  a  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  and  a  little 
salt.  Stir  lightly,  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes. 
Do  not  grease  the  pan. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Dodge. 


CHEAP  SPONGE  CAKE. 

One-half  large  teacup  sugar,  one  teacup  flour,  three  eggs, 
two  tablespoons  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoon  essence  of  lemon.  Stir  all  well  together. — Mrs.  H.  D. 
Leonard, 

JENNIE'S    SUGAR    CAKES. 

Three  cups  sugar,  two  of  butter,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one 
teaspoon  soda.  Flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Lamp- 
shire. 


CAKE.  21 

NUT    CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  one  large  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts  rolled  fine, 
one  tablespoon  of  baking  powder,  and  flour  to  thicken.  Flavor 
with  extract  of  strawberry,  and  bake  in  a  flat  pan. 

COOKED    FROSTING. 

The  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  one  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  Put  sugar  in  a  pan  and  cover  with  water,  let  it  cook 
until  it  will  hair  from  the  end  of  a  fork.  Stir  the  beaten  eggs 
with  this  until  perfectly  cold  ;  it  will  then  be  thick  enough  to 
spread  on  cake. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Scott. 


COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Flour 
enough  to  roll  softly.  Sprinkle  sugar  on  top,  cut  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  p.  B.  Turnbull. 

CHEAP  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  brown  sugar,  fill  up  the  cup  with 
molasses,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sour  milk,  three  cups  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  soda,  half 
teaspoon  nutmeg.  Add  currants  and  raisins. — Mrs.  H.  D, 
Leonard. 

LEMON    FILLING   FOR  CAKE. 

The  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  eggs,  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut,  coffee-cup  of  sugar.  Beat  all  together  and 
boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring  carefully.  This  is  enough  for  four 
layers. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Dodge. 


COOKIES. 

One  cup  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg, 
two  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Add  flower  enough  to  roll  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  John  Alfred. 


2  2  CAKE. 

MARBLE   CAKE. 

For  the  white  cake  :  One  cup  butter,  three  cups  white  sugar, 
five  even  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  soda,  whites  of  eight  eggs.      Flavor  with  lemon. 

For  the  dark  cake :  One  cup  butter,  two  cups  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
four  cups  of  flour,  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  spices 
of  all  kinds.  Put  in  pans  first  a  layer  of  dark,  then  a  layer  of 
white,  and  so  on,  finishing  with  a  dark  layer. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Morris. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  of  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  pound 
butter,  twelve  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pounds  raisins,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  currants,  one-half  pound  citron,  one-half  pound 
almonds,  one-half  pound  figs,  one-half  pint  sour  milk,  one  level 
teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  each  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoon  mace. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Frear. 


WHITE   CAKE. 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  white  butter 
beaten  to  a  cream,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  two-thirds  cups 
flour,  one-fourth  cup  cornstarch,  whites  of  nine  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  lemon  extract. — Mrs. 
G.  B.  Harker. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  coffee-cup  granulated  sugar,  one-fourth  coffee-cup  butter, 
one  coffee-cup  milk,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  water,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  nutmeg.  Cream 
the  sugar  and  butter  as  for  cake,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  then 
milk,  water,  salt  and  nutmeg  ;  next  flour  enough  to  make  stiff 
for  handling.  Do  not  roll  out  all  at  once,  but  keep  adding  a 
little  fresh  every  time,  and  roll  half  an  inch  thick.  Add  baking 
powder  with  the  flour  and  have  your  lard  just  right.  In  about 
an  hour  after  cooking,  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Keep  well 
covered  in  an  earthen  jar. — Mrs.  Guilbault. 


CAKE.  23 

JELLY    ROLL. 

Two  teacups  of  coffee  sugar,  two  teacups  of  sifted  flour,  two 
heaj)ing  teaspoons  baking  powder  ;  into  this  break  six  good -sized 
eggs  and  beat  all  well  together.  Turn  into  square  tins  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  to  a  light  brown.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a 
moulding  board,  and  spread  with  jelly.  Roll  carefully,  and 
wrap  each  roll  in  a  clean  napkin.  Can  be  used  for  table  at 
once. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


LEMON    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  ;  then 
add  the  yolks  and  whites  of  five  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Grate 
the  rind  of  one  lemon,  add  the  juice  of  same,  and  three-fourths 
cup  sweet  milk.  Dissolve  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  and  stir  all 
together.  Do  not  mix  too  stiff.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
— Mrs.  F.  M.  Mahn. 

PRINCE   OF  WALES   CAKE. 

White  Part. — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites 
of  three  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder. 

Dark  Part. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one 
cup  seeded  raisins,  tablespoon  cinnamon,  little  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Bake  in  jelly  tins,  two  white  and  two 
dark. 

Cooked  icing  to  be  put  between  the  layers.  One  and  a  half 
cups  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs ;  dissolve  the  sugar  in  water  and 
boil  until  it  hairs  on  the  end  of  the  spoon  ;  beat  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  stir  it  in  the  hot  syrup,  and  beat  until  cold. — 
Mrs.  p.  B.  Turnbull. 

DROP   GINGER   CAKES. 

One  quart  flour,  half  pint  milk,  half  pint  molasses,  two 
teaspoons  soda,  two  teaspoons  ginger,  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Drop  with  spoon  on  tins. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard, 


2  4  CAKE. 

MARBLE   CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Light  Part. — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites 
three  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  about 
two  cups  flour. 

Dark  Part  — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  yolks  three 
eggs,  one  cup  milk,  three-fourths  cup  grated  chocolate,  moistened 
with  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  about  two  cups 
flour.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  alternate  spoon  fulls  of  the 
batter  in  a  round  deep  pan  with  a  stem,  and  bake  until  done. — 
Mrs.  p.  B.  Turnbull. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one 
cup  shortening,  three  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  teaspoon  soda, 
pinch  of  salt,  tablespoon  ginger,  little  cinnamon.  To  be  eaten 
as  a  dessert  with  cream. — Mrs.  Guilbault. 


GOLD    CAKE. 

Two  heaping  cups  flour,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  and  a  half  cups  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sweet  milk,  one 
and  a  half  teaspoons  soda,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Flavor  to 
taste. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Clark. 


CORNSTARCH    CAKE. 

Whites  of  three^eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  cornstarch,  one 
and  a  half  cups  milk,  one  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one  and  a  half 
cups  butter,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  soda.     Flavor  wnth  lemon. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Clark. 


WHITE    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  flour,  whites  of 
seven  eggs,  and  a  scant  teaspoonj^baking  powder.  Cream  the 
l)utter  and  sugar,  and  add  gradually  the  well-beaten  whites,  with 
a  half  teacup  of  sweet  milk.  Flour  and  extract  to  taste.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  well  covered,  until  light. — Mrs.  Cooper. 


GEO.  O.  KEELER 

••^^SPECIAL    AGENT C=^" 

Epital]le4ife*Assiiraice4ociety, 


OK    NEW    YORK. 


Largest  M  lost  Lilieral  Life  Insirance  Co.  in  tlie  World' 

Office:    104  WEST  FOURTH  ST.,  LEADVILLE,  COLO. 


Also,  DEALER   IN   MINES  AND  MINING  STOCK. 

Have  Broker  in  New  York  and  St.  Louis. 


W|V[.  H.  Hash, 

QTTeRNEY    AT    bAW, 

Rooms  5,  7  and  10,  Emmet  Block, 

IiEflDVlLiliE,  COIiO. 


Me,  Grilles  k  Co. 


■WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN 


GROCERIESi  MEATS. 

Ki^h.    and    Game, 

Ri^uiTS,  Huts, 

Vegetables  «^^  Produce. 


I<;BBP    in    STOGI^   a    LcAI^GB   flSSOI^TMBNT 
OP    iMPOI^fPBD   AND    DOMBSTIG 


JVTOCHA  Rfit)   JAVA    COFFEE, 
fllMD    PVHH    SPICES. 

— ^OOnVLE    j^l<TJD    SEE    XJS.Q 

321  and  323  }ieiPPison  AVenae, 


LEADVILIiE,   GOLO. 


CAKE.  25 

SPONGE    ROLL. 

One  cup  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  six  eggs,  six  teaspoons  of 
water,  and  one  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  very 
light,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  beat  rapidly  until 
smooth.  Bake  quickly;  turn  on  a  clean  cloth,  spread  with  jelly 
or  any  kind  of  filling  that  is  liked,  and  roll  while  warm.  This 
mixture  can  be  baked  in  jelly  tins,  if  preferred. — Mrs.  Cooper. 


ROLLED   JELLY   CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  half  cup 
of  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
P^Iavor  with  lemon  extract.     Bake  in  a  large  flat  tin. — Mrs.  P.  B. 

TURNBULL. 

•SPONGE    CAKE. 

One  heaping  coffee-cup  flour,  one  even  coffee-cup  sugar,  six 
eggs,  essence  lemon. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


COOKIES. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one 
cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon 
soda.  Flour  enough  to  roll  good.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  to  suit 
the  taste. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Harker. 


COFFEE    CAKE. 

Four  eggs  (reserve  the  whites  of  two  for  frosting),  one  and 
one-half  cups  molasses,  the  same  of  sugar,  two  cups  chopped 
raisins,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  strong  cold  coffee,  one  tea 
spoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  soda,  one  teaspoon  each  all  kinds 
spices.  Mix  stiff  with  flour.  This  will  make  two  large  loaves. — 
Mrs.  L.  a.  Grover. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  even  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  teaspoons  melted 
butter,  flour  to  roll. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Raymond. 


26  CAKE. 

BRIDE'S    CAKE. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  small  cup  butter, 
cup  sweet  milk,  four  small  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  cornstarch, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Flavor  to  taste. 

A  cup  of  thin  sliced  citron  dusted  with  flour,  added  to  the 
above,  makes  a  very  nice  citron  cake. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Lampshire. 


WHITE    CAKE. 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  good  half  cup  butter,  cup 
of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  bakuig  powder,  one 
teaspoon  of  flavoring. 

The  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  the  same  ingredients  make  a  nice 
gold  cake. — Mrs.  McKenzie. 


HARRISON    CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
half  teaspoon  soda  stirred  in  half  cup  sour  milk,  two  small  cups 
flour.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Pour  in  small  dripping 
pan.     Bake  half  an  hour. — Miss  R.  H.  Nash. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  two  scant  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  cold  water, 
five  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoon  extract. — Mrs.  T.  Kyle. 


FIG    FILLING    FOR    CAKE. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  figs  chopped  fine ;  boil  down  with 
half  a  cup  of  water.     Cool,  then  fill  the   cake. — Mrs.   Guil- 

BAULT. 

FRUIT    COOKIES. 

Two  eggs,  one  and  a  third  cups  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
warm  water,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  even  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water,  one  cup  chopped  raisins;  salt,  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
Flour  enough  to  handle  easily. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Frear. 


CAKE.  27 

CHOCOLATE    FROSTING. 

Shave  three  fourths  cup  Baker's  chocolate,  add  three-fourths 
cup  sugar  beaten  with  one  egg  and  a  tablespoon  of  cream. 
Cook  over  the  tea  kettle. — Miss  Price. 


CHEAP   DROP   CAKES. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  water,  three  cups  flour,  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  each 
cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Bailey. 


WHITE   CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites  of  nine  eggs,  two 
and  three-fourths  cups  flour,  one-fourth  cup  cornstarch,  one  cup 
milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Beat 
sugar,  butter,  flour  and  milk  together,  then  add  eggs  and  baking 
powder. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Frear. 


SPICE   CAKE. 

Yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  and  a 
half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  all  kinds  of  spices. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Dodge. 

ANGEL    FOOD. 

Whites  of  ten  eggs,  three-fourths  tumbler  pulverized  sugar, 
one  full  tumbler  of  flour  measured  and  then  sifted  seven  times, 
three-fourths  teaspoon  cream  tartar  sifted  in  the  flour.  Lemon 
extract  or  bitter  almond. — Mrs.  T.  Kyle. 


GINGER  SNAPS. 
Mix  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  with  one  and  a  quarter 
quarts  of  flour ;  add  to  this  one-quarter  pound  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons butter,  one-half  pint  molasses,  and  two  tablespoons  ex- 
tract of  ginger.  Roll  very  thin  and  bake  in  a  few  minutes.  Will 
soften  by  being  kept. — Mrs.  John  Alfred. 


28  CAKE. 

PLAIN   CAKE   FOR   LAYERS. 

One-half  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour  after  sifting  three  times,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  butter  and  yolks  thoroughly,  add 
milk,  flour  and  baking  powder;  lastly,  the  beaten  whites,  with  a 
good  amount  of  flavoring. 

CREAM  FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  flour 
and  one  teacup  milk;  boil  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  O.  H.  Simons. 


WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cup  sugar, 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  milk,  two  and  a  half 
cups  flour,  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs. 
C.  E.  Dodge.  

MARBLE    CAKE. 

Light  Part. — Whites  of  four  eggs,  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, two  and  a  half  cups  flour.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

Dark  Part. — Yolks  of  four  eggs,  cup  brown  sugar,  half  cup 
molasses,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sour  milk,  teaspoon  soda,  two 
and  a  half  cups  flour. 

Stir  together,  dark  and  light  parts,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a 
slow  oven. — Mrs.  Taylor. 


DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  cup  and  a  half  C  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
melted  butter,  half  a  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough 
to  mix  soft  dough.     Cinnamon  to  taste. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


POUND    CAKE. 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  sugar,  half  pound  butter  rubbed 
to  a  cream,  one  pound  flour  sifted  three  times,  whites  of  sixteen 
eggs,  one  cup  walnuts,  one  teaspoon  baking  i)owder. — Mrs. 
Werner. 


CAKE. 


29 


CREAM    CAKE. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one-fourth  cup  but- 
ter and  one  cup  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  cup  milk,  three 
cups  flour,  two  spoons  baking  powder.  Stir  eggs  in  last  and 
bake  in  layers. 

For  the  cream,  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch,  butter  size  of  a  hick- 
ory-nut. Beat  the  yolks,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
boil.  Flavor  to  taste  when  cool.  Do  not  spread  on  layers  until 
cool. — Mrs.  John  /Vlfred. 

RAISIN    CAKE. 

Take  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  light  dough,  a  teacup  of 
sugar,  one  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  the  taste.  Bake  one  hour. 
Let  it  rise  before  being  baked. — Mrs.  John  Alfred. 


COOKIES, 

Cup  of  melted  butter,  two-thirds  cup  sour  milk,  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  and  a 
fourth  cups  sugar,  flour  to  roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — 
Mrs.  J.  M.  Raymond. 

BANANA    CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three 
cups  flour,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  whites  of  three,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  one-half  pound  powdered 
sugar;  spread  each  layer  with  the  icing.  Cut  banana  thin  with 
silver  knife  and  spread  thick  over  icing.  Strawberries  may  be 
used  the  same  way. — Mrs.  Werner. 


STRAWBERRY    SHORT    CAKE. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  very  small  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  little  salt,  add  flour  to  thicken,  and  bake  in  pie 
tins.     Split  the  cakes  and  add  berries. — Mrs.  Guilhault. 


30  CAKE. 

SPONGE    CAKE. 

Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  six  eggs,  one 
cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar. — Mrs.  John  Alfred. 


GINGER  SNAPS. 
One  cup  C  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  cup  boiling 
water,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  soda,  ginger  and  cinnamon. 
Flour  enough  to  roll  out  well. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Harker. 


DOUGHNUTS. 

One  coff'ee  cup  of  not  too  thick  sour  cream,  or  one  of  sour 
milk  and  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
salt,  one  teacup  sugar,  one  small  teaspoon  soda  dissolved.  Mix 
soft. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Lampshire. 


OLD-FASHIONED    GINGERBREAD. 

One  tablespoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  pulverized  alum,  each  in 
one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Add  one  pint  New  Orleans  molasses, 
one  tablespoon  ginger,  one-half  cup  butter.  Mix  soft,  roll  thin, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


CONFECTIONERY    FROSTING. 

Take  the  white  of  one  egg  (don't  beat  it)  and  stir  powdered 
sugar  into  it  until  it  is  as  thick  as  cold  cream,  or  as  thick  as  it 
can  be  spread  on  the  cake.     Flavor  if  desired. 


LAYER  CAKE. 

TWO    CAKES    OF    THREE    LAYERS. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 
four  cups  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

CREAM    FILLING. 

One  cup  milk,  half  cup  sugar;  boil  one  minute.  Two 
heaping  tablespoons  cornstarch,  yolks  of  two  eggs;  boil  five 
minutes.     When  cold  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 


CAKE.  31 

COOKIES. 

One  cup  C  sugar,  one  cup  melted  lard,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  egg ;  flour  enough  to  roll  without  sticking. — Mrs. 
Hugh  Parry. 

ICE-CREAM    CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  scant  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  flour,  one  cup  cornstarch,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in  the  flour  and  cornstarch. 
Cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  flour  and  cornstarch, 
and  last  eggs  well  beaten.     Bake  in  la3'ers. 

ICING    FOR    THE    ABOVE. 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  four  cups  sugar ;  pour  half  pint  boiling 
water  on  sugar  and  boil  till  it  candies  ;  pour  boiling  sugar  on 
the  well  beaten  whites ;  then  beat  till  it  is  cold.  Flavor  with 
lemon  and  two  teaspoons  vanilla.  Spread  between  the  cake. — 
Mrs.  Werner. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

Bring  to  a  scald  one  cup  of  molasses,  and  stir  in  one  table- 
spoon soda;  pour  it  while  foaming  over  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg 
and  one  tablespoon  ginger  beaten  together;  then  add  one  table- 
spoon vinegar  and  flour  enough  to  roll,  stirred  in  as  lightly  as 
possible. — Mrs.  Wm.  Morris. 


VARIETY    CAKE. 

Light  Part. — Whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der.    Flavor  with  lemon.  ^  About  two  cups  flour. 

Dark  Part. — One-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
cup  of  chopped  raisins,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda,  half  a  cup  of  coffee,  about  two  cups  flour,  spices  of  all 
kinds.  Bake  in  square  tins.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with 
a  little  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  ;  this  is  to  be  used  between  the 
layers,  then  add  enough  sugar  to  frost  the  top. — Mrs.  Hugh 
Parry. 


32  CAKE. 

COOKIES. 

Rub  together  till  white  one  teacup  Initter  and  two  of  sugar; 
beat  two  eggs  and  stir  into  the  mixture  with  a  little  flour.  Grate 
in  a  nutmeg.  Dissolve  one  teaspoon  soda  in  one  cup  milk. 
Add  flour  to  roll  easy. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


MACAROONS. 

One-half  pound  grated  almonds,  one-half  pound  sugar,  one 
lemon,  whites  of  two  eggs.  Blanch  and  chop  the  almonds,  add 
eggs  and  sugar,  with  the  juice  of  lemon.  Drop  a  small  quantity 
on  paper  greased  on  the  back,  which  will  enable  you  to  take  off 
the  pan. — Mrs.  Werner. 

COOKIES. 

One-half  cup  cold  water,  one  teacup  white  sugar,  one-half 
cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  cream,  three  eggs,  two  heaping 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Mix  well 
and  roll  to  about  one-fourth  an  inch  in  thickness.  Sprinkle  with 
granulated  sugar,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Morris. 

CREAM    PUFFS. 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  large  pint  of  water,^  one-half, pound 
of  melted  butter  ;  let  the  butter  stand  a  itw  moments  till  the 
salt  settles  to  the  bottom  ;  eight  eggs,  grated  rind  of  half  a 
lemon.  Set  the  butter  and  water  on  the  stove  to  boil;  when  it 
boils  add  the  flour  and  stir  quickly  till  it  comes  off  from  the 
dish;  let  it  cool,  then  l)eat  ihe  eggs  in  one  at  a  time.  Drop 
from  the  spoon  on  buttered  pans,  not  too  near  together.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.'  Sprinkle  the  puffs  with  powdered  sugar  and 
fill  with  cream.     This  will  make  forty-five  |)uffs. — Mrs.  Werner. 


CHOCOLATE    ICING. 

One  tablespoon  melted  chocolate.  One  and  a  half  cups 
sugar  boiled  to  a  syrup  in  two  tablespoons  water.  Add  to  this 
while  hot  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  then  stir  in  chocolate. 


njiiie^i!  fmii 


lifqinll^il! 


eVEr^YHlHING   SAGI^ED    UNDEF?   THIS   BF?AND    IS   Fl^EE 

FI^OM    flUU    flDULiiPBI^AIlION,    AND    SUm    LfP 

WI1IH    ^AI^E    AND   (SUEANIilNESS. 


THE   FOLLOWING  VARIETIES,   1889    PACK,  WILL    BE 
THIS   SEASON,    AND    CAN    BE    OBTAINED 
OF  YOUR  GROCER: 


IN   STOCK 


Blackberries,  Preserved  Strawberries, 

Blueberries,  Extra  Strawberries, 

Preserved  White  Pitted  Cherries, 

Preserved  Red  Pitted  Cherries, 

Spiced  Red  Pitted  Cherries,       Asparagus, 


Red  Pitted  Pie  Cherries, 
Preserved  Red  Currants, 
Yellow  Crawford  Peaches, 
Grated  Pineapple, 
Sliced  Pineapple, 
Red  Antwerp  Raspberries, 
Black  Raspberries, 
Preserved  Gooseberries, 


Lima  Beans, 
Stringless  Beans, 
Sugar  Corn, 
Extra  Fine  Peas, 
Early  June  Peas, 
Marrowfat  Peas, 
Succotash, 
Tomatoes. 


STRICTLY  PURE  MAPLE  SYRUP, 

Canned  at  the  Sugar  Bush,  thereby  retaining  its  Original  Flavor  and 
Purity.      Note  the  brand,  "BATAVIA." 
Take  no  other  under  the  supposition   that   you  are   getting   some- 
thing   equal    to    the   "BATAVIA."       If    your   grocer   does    not   keep 
"BATAVIA"  goods,  he  can  obtain  them  from 

THE  G,  8,  MOREY  MERGHNTILE  GO, 

Wholesale   Grocers, 


Sole  Agents  for  Colorado. 


DENVER,  COLO. 


"  P'  1%. 


p6gs,  paipts,  ©ils, 


Q\B   HAI^I^ISON   AYE. 


^4dii4^ 


J0S1IK^&-^.., 


A  WW 


CAKE. 


33 


JELLY  OR  CHOCOLATE   LAYER  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,.r4«lf  cup  sugar,  half  *LcupSof  flour,  in  which  a 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has  oeen  well  mixed,  pinch  of  salt, 
half  cup  of  milk  or  cream  put  in  the  last  thing. — Mrs.  Werner. 


CINNAMON    CAKE. 

One  and  a  fourth  pounds  flour,  one  })ound  sugar,  four  eggs, 
half  pound  butter,  half  pound  grated  almonds,  one  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Stir  sugar  and  eggs  for  half 
an  hour,  then  add  the  butter,  almonds,  cinnamon,  lemon  rind 
and  flour.  Roll  out  to  the  thickness  of  one-fourth  an  inch  or  less. 
Cut  out  with  cake-cutter  and  stand  over  night,  and  bake  the  next 
morning  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Werner. 


^  liiflflii)!)<^  sijjS  Sali^ss. 


SUET    PUDDING. 

Cup  chopped  suet,  cup  molasses,  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups 
flour  after  it  is  sifted,  cup  stoned  raisins  and  a  few  whole  ones, 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  teaspoon  each 
of  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Steam  un- 
til done,  at  least  three  hours. 

SAUCE    FOR    SAME. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg,  cup  of  sugar,  tablespoon  flour.  Put  all 
together  and  pour  on  boiling  water,  cook  one-half  hour.  Flavor 
with  brandy,  or  anything  preferred. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Hanna. 


SNOW   PUDDING. 

One-half  box  Nelson's  gelatine,  one  pint  boiling  water,  one 
and  a  half  cups  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons.  When  mixture  is 
cool  add  beaten  whites  of  eight  eggs,  and  beat  until  ready  to  con- 
geal. Tint  with  fruit  coloring,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 
— Mrs.  J.  B.  Henslee.        

TAPIOCA    PUDDING. 

Take  one-half  cup  of  tapioca,  soak  over  night,  put  on  the 
stove  in  the  morning ;  cook  up  clear,  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
large  spoon  of  butter  and  raisins.  Bake  one  hour,  set  away 
until  cool.     Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 


PLUM    PUDDING. 

Six  crackers  pounded  fine,  six  eggs,  one  quart  boiling  milk, 
one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter.  Raisins,  currants,  citron 
and  spices  to  taste. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Nash. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SA  UCES.  35 

POP-OVERS. 

Three  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  three  cups  milk,  a  little  salt, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  whites  separate  and  add  last.  Bake  in  small  muffin  tins 
in  a  (piick  oven. — Mrs.  Hu(;h  Parry, 


PLUM    PUDDING. 

Chop  and  rub  to  a  cream  one-fourth  pound  of  suet,  add  scant 
half  pound  sugar  ;  mix  well.  Add  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one 
grated  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoon  each  cloves,  mace,  and  salt, 
one-half  cup  brandy,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  flour  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  Seed  and  chop  one-half  pound  raisins,  wash  clean  one- 
half  pound  currants,  cut  into  thin  slices  one-half  pound  citron. 
Sprinkle  fruits  with  flour  to  prevent  their  settling  to  the  bottom  of 
batter.     Steam  five  or  eight  hours. 

SAUCE    FOR    PUDDING. 

Cream  two  cups  of  butter,  add  slowly  one  cup  powdered 
sugar,  the  unbeaten  white  of  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  wine 
and  one  of  brandy,  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water.  Heat  until 
smooth  and  creamy.  Heat  the  bowl  for  the  creamed  butter,  and 
when  adding  wine  do  so  slowly  to  prevent  curdling.  This  pud- 
ding will  keep  for  a  year.  As  it  can  be  prepared  beforehand,  it 
is  excellent  for  Christmas,  saving  much  labor  on  that  busy  day. — 
Mrs.  H.  C.  Dimick. 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  three  squares  Baker's  chocolate  melted  in 
the  milk,  two  eggs,  four  large  spoons  cornstarch,  thfee  large 
spoons  sugar.  Beat  sugar,  eggs  and  cornstarch  together,  add 
small  teaspoon  salt.  Cool  in  a  mould.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  F.  G.  Barker. 


INDIAN    PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  one  cup  white  meal  or  gold  dust,  one  cup 
sugar,  two  eggs.  Salt.  Scald  the  meal  in  milk,  and  bake  about 
two  hours  slowly. 


36  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

QUEEN   OF   PUDDINGS. 

One  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  new  milk,  one  cup 
sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Bake  in  slow  oven ;  when  done 
spread  with  jelly.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  add  four 
tablespoons  pulverized  sugar,  spread  on  top,  return  to  oven  and 
brown.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Dimick. 


SNOW  PUDDING. 
One-half  package  gelatine,  soak  two  hours  in  one  pint  cold 
water ;  heat  without  boiling  until  it  is  all  dissolved ;  when  nearly 
cold,  beat  thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater,  then  add  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Let  it  cool.  Use  the  yolks 
for  a  soft  custard  to  put  around  each  dish  when  served. — Mrs. 
T.  Kyle.  •  

TRANSCENDENTAL  PUDDING. 
Half  a  teacup  of  rice  steamed  in  one  quart  of  milk  two  hours. 
Take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  a  little 
salt,  sweeten  to  taste.  This  is  to  be  stirred  into  the  rice. 
Butter  the  pudding  dish.  Bake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  sweeten 
with  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Set 
in  oven  and  brown  lightly. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard, 


SNOW    PUDDING. 

Pour  half  a  pint  boiling  water  over  half  a  box  gelatine;  stir 
until  dissolved.  Into  this  squeeze  the  juice  of  three  -emons,  add 
two  cups  sugar;  beat  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
gradually  to  the  dissolved  gelatine,  etc.  Beat  constantly  thirty 
minutes,  until  it  has  the  appearance  of  snow.  Dip  moulds  in 
cold  water,  and  put  the  mixture  on  ice  to  cool. 

CUSTARD    FOR    THE    ABOVE. 

Three  cups  milk,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  Boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  eggs  gradually, 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  lump. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Dimick. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES.  37 


BAKED    CUSTARD. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk,  then  add  four  well-beaten  eggs; 
sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven. 


ORANGE    PUDDING. 
Peel  four  oranges,  slice  very  thin,  lay  in  a  deep  dish  with  one 
cup  white  sugar  strewn  over  it ;  set  it  away  for  an  hour. 

CREAM    FOR    SAME. 

One-half  cup  flour,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  small  piece  of 
butter,  yolks  three  eggs,  one  half  teaspoon  essence  lemon.  Beat 
these  together  and  pour  into  one  pint  boiling  water;  let  it  boil  a 
few  minutes;  pour  over  the  oranges  while  hot.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  teaspoons  sugar,  spread  over 
the  top,  place  in  the  oven  to  brown  a  few  minutes.  Serve  cold. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Nash.  

BAKED  CUSTARD. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  half  an  hour ;  add  five  ounces 
pulverized  sugar,  then  one  quart  cold,  new  milk  ;  add  a  teaspoon 
lemon  extract,  fill  the  cups  and  set  them  in  a  pan  half  filled  with 
warm  water.  Place  tlie  pan  in  a  rather  cool  oven  and  gradually 
increase  the  heat.  In  about  twenty  minutes  dip  a  teaspoon  in 
one  of  the  custards  to  see  if  it  is  firm.  Great  care  is  needed  in 
baking  custards,  for  if  left  in  the  oven  a  minute  too  long,  or  if 
the  fire  is  too  hot,  the  milk  will  certainly  whey, — Mrs.  Wm. 
Morris. 

DANDY  PUDDING. 
One  quart  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch,  five  table- 
spoons sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Beat  the  cornstarch  and  sugar 
together,  and  stir  into  the  milk  when  boiling;  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens and  is  smooth.  Flavor  with  a  teaspoon  vanilla.  Butter  the 
pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
a  little  pulverized  sugar,  pour  on  the  toj),  put  in  the  oven  and 
bake. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


APPLE  MERINGUE. 
Pare  and  stew  a  few  apples  just  as  you  would  for  sauce  ;  take 
two  or  three  slices  of  bread,  butter  them  well.  Line  a  bread  pan 
with  pie  crust,  cover  with  a  layer  of  the  apple  sauce  well  sweet- 
ened with  sugar,  next  a  layer  of  bread,  then  of  apples.  Bake 
till  done.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  for  meringue,  spread  on  top 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  sauce  of  any  kind. 
— Mrs.  Hugh  Parry. 

GELATINE  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  milk,  one-half  box  gelatine,  two-thirds  cup  sugar, 
three  eggs.  Put  gelatine  in  milk,  scald  the  same,  then  add  the 
yolks  of  eggs  with  the  sugar,  and  salt.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil ; 
when  a  little  cool  stir  in  the  whites.  Set  it  in  a  basin  of  cold 
water  and  stir  thoroughly,  adding  flavoring  when  quite  cool. 


ORANGE  JELLY. 

One-half  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  cold  water 
half  an  hour;  then  add  half  a  pint  boiling  water,  place  over  the 
steam  of  a  tea-kettle.  When  thoroughly  dissolved  add  one  cup 
sugar,  the  juice  of  five  oranges  and  two  lemons,  and  put  in  a 
mould  in  a  cool  place. 

PRUNE    JELLY. 

Soak  in  water  one-half  a  box  of  gelatine.  Stew  half  a 
pound  of  prunes  until  tender,  then  remove  the  stones.  To 
liquid  add  gelatine  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  enough  hot  water 
to  make  a  pint  and  a  gill  of  liciuid.  Return  prunes  to  litphd 
and  let  boil.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


DESSERT.  39 


WHIPPED    CREAM. 

Add  to  one-half  pint  cream  of  moderate  thickness  the  white 
of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one-half  cup  pulverized  sugar 
and  flavoring.     The  grated  riiid  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon  is  nice. 


CHARLOTTE    RUSSE. 

Eighteen  Savoy  biscuit,  three-fourths  pint  cream,  one  table- 
spoon powdered  sugar,  one-half  ounce  isinglass.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  or  wine.  Brush  the  biscuit  with  the  white  of  egg.  Line 
the  bottom  of  a  round  mould,  standing  them  upright  all  around 
the  edge,  then  place  the  mould  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  to 
dry  the  egg.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth  with  the  sugar, 
flavoring  and  melted  isinglass.  Fill  the  charlotte,  cover  the  top 
with  a  piece  of  sponge  cake  the  shape  of  the  mould,  place  on  the 
ice  until  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  Werner. 


WINE   JELLY. 

Two  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  pale  sherry,  one  pint  cold  waler, 
one  package  Cox's  gelatine,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  quart  boil- 
ing water,  small  stick  cinnamon.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold 
water  one  hour,  add  to  this  sugar,  lemon,  cinnamon,  and  pour 
over  all  the  boiling  water,  stirring  until  gelatine  is  dissolved. 
Put  in  the  wine  last.  Strain  through  flannel  bag  without  squeez- 
ing. Wet  mould  with  cold  water  and  pour  in  the  jelly ;  set 
on  ice  to  cool, — Mrs.  Werner. 


ICE-CREAM. 

One  teacup  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  let 
come  to  a  boil;  cool  and  strain,  adding  onequart  cream.  Flavor 
with  a  tablespoon  of  vanilla.     Then  freeze. — Mrs.   McKenzie. 


COFFEE   JELLY. 

One  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  cold  water  two 
hours,  then  add  one  pint  sugar,  one  pint  strong  hot  coff'ee,  one 
and  a  half  pints  boiling  water.  Strain  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. — Miss  R.  H.  Nash. 


40  DESSERT. 

ORANGE    SHERBET. 

Six  oranges,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two 
quarts  of  water,  two  cups  of  sugar.  Freeze  same  as  ice  cream. 
— Mrs.  Paxton. 

LEMON    JELLY. 

One-half  paper  gelatine  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  cold 
water  an  hour;  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  juice  of 
a  lemon,  three-fourths  pint  sugar.     Strain  and  set  away  to  cool. 


CHARLOTTE    RUSSE. 

One  pint  milk,  one-fourth  box  Nelson's  gelatine,  two  cups 
sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  these  ingredients  and  set  in  a 
vessel  of  boiling  water  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Strain  through 
a  sieve.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  When  cool,  beat  in  one  pint  of 
well-whipped  cream.  Line  your  dish  with  sponge  cake  and  pour 
in  the  custard. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Henslee. 


FRUIT   ICE-CREAM. 

Two  quarts  cream,  five  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  coffee-cups 
pulverized  sugar,  three  pounds  peaches  peeled  and  choj^ped  fine. 
Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately.  Any  fruit  preferred 
may  be  used. — Mrs.  Guilbault. 


ICE-CREAM. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  cream,  one  cup  pulverized 
sugar,  two  eggs.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  This  makes  three 
pints  of  cream. — Mrs.  G.  B.  Harker. 


PINEAPPLE    SHERBET. 

Pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  over  one  can  of  sliced  pine- 
apple, steep  one  hour  and  strain.  Add  juice  of  six  lemons  and 
two  cups  of  sugar.  I'ut  into  freezer;  when  partly  frozen,  whip 
the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  slowly  after  they 
are  whi|5ped  four  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar.  Stir  this  slowly 
into  freezer  and  freeze  two  hours. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Dimick. 


i^  f- 


A 


^y  {J  aAA.    4.V    ^')l/» 


114, 116  and  118  East  Sixth  Street, 

LtBADYILLE,     (sOLOI^ADO, 

-«^DEAUEF?S    IN*^- 

HEATIN&  AND  COOIINd  STOVES. 


I  We  also  eaupy  a  Full  Liine  ofQr^^ — 


Cilrtains,  Shades,  Pillows,  Comforts, 

BLANKETS,  EDfiS,  COOKING-UTENSILS,  TINWARE, 

IN     FAGOl,     eVEI^YiPHIMS     REGBSSAI^Y     B0^    F^OUSE-I^EEPING.        IN 
ADDIIPION    WE    HAVE    A 

Bejair  ai  Djliolsterii  Dejartmeit. 


We  call  your  ESPECIAL  ATTENTION  to  our  New  and  Choice  Line  of 

UPHOLSTERED  *  PARLOR  *  SUITS, 

Rocters,  Single  anfl  Bed  Lomips,  Etc. 


^  i3i^.g^l!laj]<:cDli3o  p 


-••-, 


»>*<♦ 

CREAMED   OYSTERS. 

One  quart  of  oysters,  one  and  a  half  cups  cream,  one  heaping 
tablespoon  cornstarch.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  the  cream 
come  to  a  boil,  mix  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  milk  and  stir  into 
the  cream ,  add  pepper  and  salt.  Let  the  oysters  come  to  a  boil 
in  their  own  liquor,  and  skim  carefully.  Drain  nff  the  li(|uor, 
and  turn  the  ovsters  into  the  cream. — Mrs.  H.  D.  Leonard. 


CREAMED  CELERY. 

Cut  in  inch  pieces  and  cover  with  milk,  to  which,  when  boil- 
ing, add  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.     Serve  hot. 


DICED  TURNIPS. 
Pare,  slice,  cut  in  dice  an  inch  square;  boil  until  nearly  done 
in  as  little  water  as  possible.  To  one  quart  of  turnips,  add  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste  ;  when  boiled  quite  dry,  add 
two  or  three  spoons  of  cream  and  a  beaten  egg. — Mrs.  A.  J. 
Lampshire. 

CHOPPED    PICKLE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one  pint  green  peppers,  two 
quarts  green  cucumbers,  four  bunches  celery  and  one  ounce 
celery  seed,  one  ounce  mustard  seed,  five  cents  worth  of  tumeric 
in  a  bag,  one  large  cup  brown  sugar,  two  heads  of  cabbage,  one- 
fourth  pound  horse-radish.  Sprinkle  salt  over  cabbage  and 
tomatoes,  and  let  drain  over  night ;  rinse  with  water  in  the 
morning.  Put  seeds  and  tumeric  in  vinegar  and  boil,  pour  over 
the  ingredients  while  hot. 


42  MISCELLANEOUS. 

EGG  OMELETTE. 

Ten  eggs,  one  large  coffee-cup  milk,  a  little  salt.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light,  add  the  milk  and  salt.  Pour  into  a  hot  skillet 
in  which  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  has  been  melted.  When 
partly  cooked,  remove  from  fire  and  bake  in  oven  until  firm. 
Place  a  hot  platter  on  top  of  omelette,  invert  quickly,  and  serve 
at  once. 

CHILI    SAUCE. 

Fifty  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  six  green  peppers,  six  red  peppers, 
eight  onions  and  six  garlics,  eight  tablespoons  salt,  eight  table- 
spoons sugar,  twelve  cups  vinegar,  celery,  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
allspice  to  taste.  Chop  peppers  and  onions  very  fine.  Peel  and 
chop  the  tomatoes.     Boil  two  hours  ;  stir  while  boiling. 


WATERMELON    SWEET    PICKLE. 

Pare  and  cut  the  rind  into  thin  pieces  and  place  in  a  porce- 
lain-lined kettle;  to  about  five  pounds  of  fruit,  add  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  with  sufficient  water  to  cover,  and  boil  until  tender 
enough  to  pierce  with  a  silver  fork.  Drain  well,  then  take  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  sugar,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Scald  the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  fruit  for  eight  successive  days, 
the  ninth  day  add  one  ounce  each  stick  cinnamon,  whole  cloves 
and  allspice.  Scald  all  together  and  seal  up.  Nicer  if  left  to 
stand  two  or  three  months. — Mrs.  L.  A.  Grover. 


DRESSING    FOR    MEATS    AND    POULTRY. 

ESPECIALLY    FOR    TURKEYS. 

One-half  loaf  baker's  bread  dried  and  soaked  in  cold  water; 
squeeze  the  bread  well  with  the  hands  until  all  the  water  is  out. 
Smother  a  small  onion  in  a  large  piece  of  butter,  but  do  not 
brown  it;  add  this  to  the  bread,  also  one  pound  chopped  veal, 
one-half  pound  tender  pork,  grated  half  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt, 
chopped  parsley,  three  eggs,  beating  the  whites  to  a  froth  and 
adding  last. — Mrs.  Werner. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  43 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Three-fourths  pound  raw  veal,  one-fourth  pound  raw  salt-pork, 
three  eggs,  nine  crackers,  three  teaspoons  salt,  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  pepper,  parsley.  Chop  very  fine,  and 'bake  one  hour. 
When  cold,  slice  thin. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Nash. 


GERMAN    PICKLES. 

One  bushel  large,  yellow  cucumbers;  peel,  cut  up  lengthwise 
and  remove  seeds ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  twelve  hours. 
Strain  and  thoroughly  dry  with  a  cloth  ;  cover  with  cold  vinegar 
and  let  stand  for  two  weeks  ;  pour  off  vinegar,  dry  cucumbers, 
put  in  a  jar  with  a  teacup  of  mustard  seeds  and  spices.  Boil 
sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  and  pour  over  them  warm. — Mrs. 
Werner. 

ESCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Sprinkle  a  buttered  dish  with  cracker  crumbs,  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  oysters,  some  bits  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  leaving  crumbs  and  butter  on  top. 
Pour  over  the  top  a  little  milk.     Bake  until  of  a  light  brown. 


TO    BLANCH    ALMONDS. 

Shell  the  nuts  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them;  let  them 
stand  a  minute,  then  throw  them  into  cold  water ;  rub  between 
the  hands  and  the  dark  skin  will  come  off. 


BOILED    FISH. 

One  mountain  trout  or  white  fish,  clean  and  wash  well, 
sprinkle  salt  on  the  inside  and  out  and  let  it  stand  over  night; 
in  the  morning  put  into  salt  boiling  water,  boiling  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Lay  on  a  platter  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley  and  serve  at  once  with  hot  potatoes  boiled  in  salt  water. 
For  gravy,  a  large  piece  of  butter  melted  but  not  boiled  ;  pour 
the  butter  slowly  into  a  tureen,  leaving  the  salt  in  the  dish.  Add 
chopped  parsley. — Mrs.  Werner. 


44  MISCELLANEOUS. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Stem  three  pints  of  ripe  currants.  Make  a  syrup  of  three 
parts  of  sugar  to  one  of  strong  vinegar.  Add  currants,  boil  for 
a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Spice 
with  cinnamon  and  cloves. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Dimick. 


FISH   CHOWDER. 

Try  out  small  pieces  of  salt  pork  in  a  kettle.  Cut  up  a 
medium-sized  fish,  slice  thin  four  or  five  potatoes  ;  add  these  to 
the  salt  pork  in  alternate  layers;  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  soft.  Season  to  taste,  add  an  onion  if  liked,  one 
large  pint  milk,  and  piece  of  butter.  Let  boil.  Add  a  few 
Boston  crackers  (split)  just  before  serving. 


GRAPE    PRESERVES. 

Wash  the  grapes,  weigh,  having  equal  weight  of  sugar  and 
grapes ;  then  pulp  the  grapes,  put  the  pulp  in  a  kettle  and  boil 
twenty-five  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve ;  return  this  to  the 
kettle,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  thirty  minutes,  then  put  in  the 
skms  and  boil  ten  minutes. — Miss  R.  H.  Nash. 


DUMPLINGS. 

One  pint  flour,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  a  large  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  little  salt.  Make  the  batter  soft,  so  as  to  drop 
in  with  a  spoon.  Cook  about  ten  minutes.  Be  sure  to  have  the 
soup  boiling  when  you  drop  them  in.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
W.  H.  Nash.  

SAUER   KRAUT  WITH   OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  oysters.  Mix  some  flour  with  part  of  the  liquor, 
put  the  rest  of  the  liquor  on  the  stove,  let  come  to  a  boil ;  add 
oysters  and  flour  and  let  come  to  a  boil  again  ;  add  pepper  and 
salt  and  piece  of  butter.  Then  fill  dish  with  layer  of  sauer 
kraut  and  layer  of  oysters  alternately.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
Werner. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  45 

SWEET    PICKLE. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  sugar,  one  quart 
vinegar,  one-half  ounce  each  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and 
scald  all  together.  Take  out  the  fruit  and  boil  the  syrup  down 
and  pour  over;  repeat  this  for  three  days. 


COLD   TOMATO    CATSUP. 

One-half  peck  tomatoes,  three  pints  of  good  vinegar,  three- 
fourths  cup  salt,  three-fourths  cup  ground  mustard  seed,  three 
peppers,  handful  celery  seed,  one  tablespoon  grated  horse-radish. 
Mix  well  and  bottle  tight. 


SPICED    BEEF. 

Chop  one  pound  raw  beefsteak  and  a  piece  of  suet  or  pork 
the  size  of  an  Qgg.  Add  one-half  pint  bread  crumbs  or  crack- 
ers, two  eggs,  six  tablespoons  cream  or  milk,  a  small  piece  of 
butter.  Season  with  savory,  marjoram,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix 
and  make  in  a  roll  with  flour  enough  to  keep  together.  Bake. 
When  cold  slice  thin. 

PREPARED    FISH. 

Boil  until  quite  soft  three  pounds  of  fish ;  pick  in  small 
pieces  and  lay  upon  a  flat  dish.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Turn  upon  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs  a  pint  of  scalding  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Beat 
to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  and  spread  over  the  surface.  Bake  half 
an  hour. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Nash. 


TOMATO   TOAST. 

Run  a  quart  of  stewed  ripe  tomatoes  through  a  colander, 
place  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  brown  on  both  sides, 
place  on  a  platter,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  add  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream  to  the  tomatoes  and  pour  over  the  toast. — Mrs.  A.  J. 
Lampshire. 


46  MISCELLANEOUS. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Cover  cranberries  with  water  and  cook  until  soft ;  mash 
through  a  colander.  To  one  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Return  to  stove  and  boil  one-half  hour.  Pour  the  hot 
liquid  in  moulds  to  cool. — Miss  R.  H.  Nash. 


HOT    MUSH    BREAD    FOR    DINNER. 

Scald  a  pint  of  corn  meal  until  of  the  consistency  of  mush  ; 
when  cooked,  cool  with  sour  or  buttermilk  until  about  as  thick 
as  batter  cake  dough;  then  add  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  soda,  two  eggs,  and  a  teaspoon  of  butter.  Beat  well  and 
bake  quickly.  To  be  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked, 
and  helped  with  a  spoon. — Mrs.  Cooper. 


FOAM    SAUCE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  egg ;  beat  well  together,  add  four  table- 
spoons boiling  milk.     Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Nash. 


''^""'""'mm^  '^ 


Bj]M 


-^->^^*<- 


\ 


MOLASSES    CANDY. 

Two  cups  New  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil 
twenty-five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Either  pull  it  or  pour 
out  thin  on  pans. — Miss  F.  L.  Raymond. 


PEANUT  CANDY. 

One  pound  of  granulated  sugar  put  in  an  iron  spider;  stir 
until  free  from  lumps.  Crush  a  quart  of  peanuts  very  fine  and 
add  just  before  takiitg  from  the  stove. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Dodge. 


CHOCOLATE    CARAMELS. 

One  large  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  half  cup 
milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  cornstarch,  one- 
fourth  pound  chocolate. — Miss  R.  H.  Nash. 


CHOCOLATE    CARAMELS. 

One  cup  milk,  two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  a 
half  cakes  chocolate,  small  piece  of  butter.  Grate  the  chocolate 
and  stir  it  into  the  milk  when  boiling,  then  stir  in  gradually  the 
other  ingredients.  Try  it  as  you  would  molasses  candy,  and 
when  done  and  cooled  a  little,  cut  in  squares  half  an  inch. 


48  CANDIES. 

FRENCH    CREAM    CANDY. 

(uncooked.) 

Mix  whites  of  two  eggs  and  their  bulk  in  water  in  a  large 
bowl ;  beat  very  well,  add  a  dessert  spoon  vanilla  and  about  two 
pounds  "XXX"  confectioners'  sugar  (finest  grade  of  powdered 
sugar),  well  sifted  ;  beat  well,  and  the  paste  is  ready.  Take 
half  a  pound  of  dates,  remove  stones,  put  in  a  piece  of  the  candy 
paste  and  roll  each  one  in  granulated  sugar. 

For  Fig  Candy,  split  half  a  pound  of  figs,  place  a  layer  of  the 
dough  on  a  board  (first  sprinkle  well  with  powdered  sugar  to 
prevent  its  adhering),  then  a  layer  of  figs,  again  a  layer  of 
dough,  and  cut  in  squares. 

Nuts  of  any  kind  may  be  made  up  into  candy  by  using  the 
meats  for  the  foundation  or  inside  of  little  balls  of  paste,  and 
then  roll  in  coarse  sugar;  set  each  kind  out  in  a  cool  place  to 
harden. 

For  Chocolate  Creams  roll  any  number  of  balls  size  of  small 
marbles  from  the  dough,  and  when  they  are  hardened,  dip  with  a 
fork  into  some  Baker's  chocolate  melted  on  the.stove.  Be  careful 
not  to  allow  it  to  boil ;  better  to  melt  it  in  a  little  cup  placed  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  on  the  stove.  Or  make  a  caramel  of  three- 
fourths  pint  sugar,  one-third  pint  milk,  two  tablespoons  butter, 
and  one  square  chocolate.  Boil  twenty  minutes  and  add  one 
teaspoon^^ vanilla.  Remove  from  fire,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  dip  in  the  little  balls. 

Cocoanut  Candy  may  be  made  by  rolling  out  another  portion 
of  the  dough  on  the  floured  board,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  roll  a 
few  times  with  the  roller,  and  cut  into  squares. 

A  mixture  of  cocoanut  and  nuts  chopped  fine  makes  a 
delicious  candy. 

For  English  Walnut  Candy  split  the  walnuts,  shape  some  of 
the  dough  into  round  flat  balls,  place  a  half  of  the  nut  on  each 
and  press  firmly.  Use  hickory-nut  meats  for  Hickory-Nut 
Candy. 


^Ho^SEHOLiD*  f4n4TS..^ 


•.•  To  clean  the  silver  spoons  and  forks  in  everyday  use,  rub 
them  with  a  damp  cloth  dipped  in  baking  soda,  then  polish  them 
with  a  small  piece  of  chamois  skin. 


•.•  Rub  salt  on  the  inside  of  your  coffee  pot  when  washing  it, 
and  it  will  remove  the  coffee  and  egg  very  quickly.  Be  sure  to 
rinse  it  thoroughly  before  using  it  again. 


'.  •  Old  lamp  burners  should  be  boiled  often  in  strong  saleratus 
water.  Let  them  boil  for  an  hour,  polish  them,  and  they  will  be 
as  good  as  new,  and  will  not  trouble  you  by  causing  a  smoky 

-.' Brooms  become  very  brittle  in  this  dry  atmosphere ;  dip- 
ping them  in  hot  suds  every  week  will  toughen  them,  so  they 
will  last  much  longer.  *  *  * 

•.•Cut  old  boot  tops  into  pieces  the  right  size,  cover  with 
calico,  and  you  have  a  holder  that  will  not  heat  the  hand. 


JAVELLE  WATER. 

TO    BLEACH    AND    REMOVE    STAINS. 

Four  pounds  sal-soda,  one  pound  chloride  of  lime,  one  gallon 
water.  Heat  the  sal  soda  in  a  vessel  over  the  fire,  add  the  water 
boiling.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Add  the  chloride  of  lime,  having 
first  reduced  it  to  powder.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork  the 
mixture.     Rinse  well  after  using. 


CLEANING    FLUID. 

Sulphuric  ether,  one  drachm;  chloroform,  one  drachm; 
alcohol,  two  drachms;  deodorized  benzine,  two  pints;  oil  of 
wintergreen,  two  drachms.  Nice  for  cleaning  kid  gloves,  grease 
spots,  etc. 


COPYRIGHT  APPLIED    FOR. 
All   Rights  Reserved. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


lililllllliililllliilllilllllllilliilllilll 
0  010  230  530  9  # 


