THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 
UNIVERSITY  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINA 
AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 


C641.5 
C697W 


A  mmm 

of 

FAVORITE  RECIPES 


Compiled  by 

THE  WOMEN'S  SOCIETY  OF  CHRISTIAN  SERVICE 
Hayes  Barton  Methodist  Church 
Raleigh,  North  Carolina 


TODArS  THOUGHT 


We  all  need: 

The  good  fortune  to  enjoy  those  things  which 
should  not  be  changed. 

The  courage  to  change  those  things  which 
should  be  changed. 

The  fortitude  to  endure  those  things  which 
cannot  be  changed. 

The  wisdom  to  know  which  is  which. 


We  have  endeavored  to  assemble  recipes  that  have  proven 
successful  thru  the  years  and  which  we  feel  will  follow  the  same 
pattern  for  years  to  come. 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  to  those  members  of  Hayes 
Barton  Methodist  Church  and  our  friends  who  have  contributed 
their  favorite  recipes  to  our  cook  book.  We  are  most  grateful  to 
the  merchants  of  Raleigh  for  their  support,  both  in  advertising 
and  merchandise. 

The  proceeds  of  this  book  will  be  devoted  to  the  installation 
of  equipment  in  our  new  kitchen. 


2 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

APPETIZERS    4 

BEVERAGES    9 

BREADS  AND  ROLLS  12 

SOUPS   21 

MEATS  AND  POULTRY  25 

SEAFOODS    44 

VEGETABLE  AND  CASSEROLE  DISHES  47 
RICE,  SPAGHETTI,  MACARONI,  AND  NOODLES  58 

SALADS    62 

SAUCES    71 

SALAD  DRESSINGS    73 

DESSERTS— Frozen  and  Frosted   77 

PUDDINGS    81 

CAKES   84 

CAKE  ICINGS    97 

COOKIES   100 

PIES    107 

CANDIES    117 

PICKLE  AND  CONSERVE  119 

MENUS  AND  HINTS    123 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  127 

3 

mm 


APPETIZERS 


GRAPEFRUIT -MINT  APPETIZER 

Section  2  grapefruit,  add  several  sprigs  mint,  minced,  sweeten  to  taste  and  let 
stand  several  hours  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  Powell  G.  Fox 

EGG  SHRIMP  HORS  D'OEUVRES 

4  hard-cooked  eggs  cup  chili  sauce 

5  teaspoons  French  dressing  Watercress 
32  small  cooked  shrimp 

Chill,  shell  and  cut  eggs  in  halves.  Remove  yolks,  mince  and  mix  with  dressing. 
(A  cut  clove  of  garlic  added  to  the  dressing  at  least  hour  before  using  im- 
proves its  flavor.)  Refill  whites  with  yolk  mixture.  Place  a  stuffed  egg  in  the 
center  of  each  plate.  Surround  each  with  4  shrimp  with  chili  sauce.  Arrange 
watercress  between  shrimp  on  each  plate.  Serves  8. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Davis 

CHEESE  APPLES 

Cream  Yi  lb,  sharp  cheese;  add  Yi  cup  chopped  nuts  and  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper.  Moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Roll  in  small  balls.  Roll  one  side  in  paprika 
and  stick  with  a  whole  clove.  Makes  about  12  apples. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS 

1  qt.  oysters  2  tbs.  pickling  spices  with 

Yi  pt.  vinegar  a  bit  of  red  pepper 

1  tsp.  salt 

Drain  oysters  and  set  them  aside.  Combine  half  the  liquor  drained  from  the 
oysters  with  the  vinegar.  Add  salt  and  spices  and  bring  to  a  boil.  In  a  separate 
pan  heat  oysters  slowly  and  let  them  simmer  for  a  few  minutes.  When  both 
vinegar  mixture  and  oysters  are  cold,  combine  and  put  in  refrigerator.  Let 
stand  for  two  hours  before  serving.  (Caution:  If  vinegar  and  oysters  are  com- 
bined while  warm,  the  oysters  will  not  be  firm.) 

Mrs.  Edward  Cannon 

TOMATO  JUICE  FRAPPE 

3  c.  tomato  juice  1  tsp.  grated  onion 

1  tbsp.  lime  juice  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  sugar  Yi  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Combine  and  freeze  to  a  stiff  mush.  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  Powell  G.  Fox 

4 


SHRIMP  HORS  D'OEUVRES 

1  can  shrimps  1  teasp.  lemon  juice 

2  tablesp.  butter  Salt  to  taste 

1  teasp.  anchovy  paste  Mayonnaise,  enough  to  moisten 

1  teasp.  pepper 
Chop  fine.  Mix  together,  add   to  shrimps. 

CUCUMBER  FRENCH  DRESSING 

Slice  and  marinate  in  French  dressing  for  15  minutes.  Toast  on  one  side.  Place 

cucumber  on  slice  and  cover  with  shrimp  paste.  Garnish  with  cream  cheese 
and  half  stuffed  olives. 
Mixture  to  dip  potato  chips  in: 

1  package  cream  cheese  ^  teasp.  Al  sauce 

2  tablesp.  olive  oil,  mayonnaise  Paprika 

3  tablesp.  anchovy  paste  Celery  salt 

lYz  teasp.  onion  juice  Cream  together,  chill 

Mixture  to  dip  potato  chips  in: 

3  packages  cream  cheese  1  bottle  capers,  drained 

3  cups  mayonnaise  1  teasp.  onion  juice 

1  bottle  horseradish,  drained  Mix  together 

Mixture  to  dip  potato  chips  in: 

8  oz.  roquefort  cheese  2  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  package  cream  cheese  Small  amount  chives,  cut  fine 

2  tablesp.  tomato  catsup  Mix  together 

CELERY  PINWHEELS 

Separate  stalks  from  1  bunch  celery.  Fill  each  stalk  with  nippy  spreading 
cheese.  Put  stalks  back  together;  tie  firmly  and  chill.  Slice      to  Vz  inch  thick. 

LIVER  SPREAD 

1  lb.  chicken  livers  2  hard  boiled  eggs 

1  large  onion  2  tablesp.  chicken  fat 

Saute  onions  and  livers.  Cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Chop  livers  and  eggs 
until  a  paste  is  formed.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Soften  with  chicken  fat. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchings 

COCKTAIL  SAUCE 

1  tablesp.  lemon  juice  3  drops  Worcestershire  sauce 

cup  ketchup  teasp.  salt 

2  teasp.  horseradish  (grated) 

Mix  and  chill  well  before  serving.  This  makes  ^3  cup  sauce.  Celery  salt  or 
finely  chopped  celery  can  be  added  if  you  wish. 

SHRIMP  SANDWICH  SPREAD 

1  pound  shrimp  (or  canned  Black  pepper 

shrimp)  Worcestershire  sauce 

Yz  teasp.  paprika  Tabasco  sauce  to  taste 

Yi  teasp.  dry  mustard  1  whole  stalk  celery  hearts 

1  teasp.  salt  chopped  fine 

2  teasp.  lemon  juice  Yi  green  pepper  chopped  fine 
If  fresh  shrimp,  grind.  Add  mayonnaise  to  make  a  wet  paste. 

5 


CHILLED  JUICES 

Place  crushed  ice  in  cocktail  glasses  and  fill  with  one  of  the  following  chilled 
juice  combinations. 

1.  Two  parts  tomato  juice  and  one  part  sauerkraut  juice. 

2.  Grapefruit  juice  with  minted  or  maraschino  cherries. 

3.  Equal  parts  pineapple  and  orange  juice  with  a  dash  of  fresh  lime  juice. 

4.  One  part  grape  juice  and  two  parts  unsweetened  pineapple  juice. 

5.  Equal  parts  unsweetened  pineapple  juice  and  tomato  juice. 

6.  Equal  parts  unsweetened  pineapple  or  orange  juice  and  prune  juice. 

7.  Canned  sweetened  apricot  juice  with  a  dash  of  lemon  juice. 

HOT  HORS  D'OEUVRES 

1.  Large  oysters,  soaked  in  garlic  and  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Drain, 
wrap  with  bacon,  fasten  with  tooth  pick.  Broil  or  fry. 

2.  Shrimps,  marinate,  dip  in  chili  sauce,  roll  in  bacon.  Broil. 

3.  Chicken  livers,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Wrap  in  bacon.  Broil. 

4.  lYz  packages  cream  cheese  and  1  can  minced  clams,  drained.  Mix  together 
and  heat  well.  Season  with  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Spread  on  pieces  of  bread  which  have  been  toasted  on  one  side. 
Broil. 

5.  Spread  untoasted  side  of  bread  rounds  with  chili  sauce,  sprinkle  well  with 
grated  cheese.  Place  strips  of  bacon  on  top.  Broil  until  bacon  is  crisp. 

6.  Sardines  put  on  strip  of  toast,  cover  with  cheese.  Broil. 

7.  Toast  rounds  covered  with  caviar.  Spread  with  cheese  mixture.  Broil. 

8.  Cheese  mixture:  Equal  parts  butter,  soft  cheese,  1  whole  egg.  Mix  well. 
Spread  on  toast  rounds.  Broil. 

9.  Shrimps,  dipped  in  chili  sauce,  roll  in  bacon.  Broil. 

10.  Ham  and  cheese  canape: 

6  slices  bread  teasp.  mustard       Place  on  bread 

6  slices  broiled  ham        1  tablesp.  catsup         Grate  and  mix  to  paste 

American  cheese  Cut  into  rounds         Spread  on  ham.  Broil 

11.  Saratoga  crackers,  split  lengthwise,  wrap  completely  with  thinly  sliced 
bacon.  Bake  at  350°  until  bacon  is  crisp. 

12.  Cheese  Appetizers: 

2  egg  whites  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

1  cup  grated  sharp  cheese  ^  cup  grated  dry  bread  crumbs 

Beat  egg  whites  stiff.  Add  other  ingredients.  Pat  into  small  balls  and  fry  in 
hot,  deep  fat  until  light  brown.  Makes  about  16  balls.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Fulghum 


Compliments 

VILLAGE  PHARMACY 

CAMERON  VILLAGE 
447  Daniels  Street 
Telephone  4-1347  Raleigh,  N.  C. 

FREE  DELIVERY 


6 


APPETIZERS  AND  COLD  HORS  D'OEUVRES 

1.  Cheese  balls,  highly  seasoned,  rolled  in  chopped  parsley,  or  chives. 

2.  Dill  pickles,  cored  with  apple  corer,  stuffed  with  highly  seasoned  cheese 
and  sliced. 

3.  Ground  ham  and  cooked  eggs  seasoned  with  mayonnaise  and  chives,  shaped 
into  tiny  balls  and  rolled  in  crushed  cornflake, 

4.  Large  salted  pecans  stuck  together  with  lemon  juice  moistened  roquefort 
cheese  or  with  anchovy  paste  and  cream  cheese. 

5.  Stuffed  egg  fillings: 

Deviled  ham,  mustard  vinegar  Onion  and  lemon  seasoned 

Anchovy  paste  caviar,  garnished  with  grated 

Green  pepper,  celery,  pimento  egg  yolk 

finely  chopped,  mayonnaise  Chicken  salad 

Pate  de  foie  gras  Sardine  paste 

6.  Cheese  Roll: 

2  packages  cream  cheese  Pinch  of  salt 

\i  lb.  butter  Ground  peanuts 

Yz  teasp.  onion  juice 

Blend  together,  form  in  roll.  Roll  the  above  in  peanuts.  Chill,  slice  thin.  Serve 

on  crackers. 

SANDWICH  FILLING  COMBINATIONS 

1.  Cream  cheese,  mayonnaise  and  grated  onion 

2.  Cottage  cheese,  grated  onion  and  grated  cucumber 

3.  Peanut  butter  and  thinly  sliced  banana 

4.  Peanut  butter  and  thinly  sliced  tomatoes 

5.  Cream  cheese  and  apple  butter 

6.  Cream  cheese,  top  milk  and  chopped  pecans 

7.  Cream  cheese  and  chopped  green  peppers 

8.  Grind  carrots  and  raisins,  blend  with  mayonnaise,  spread  on  brown  bread 

9.  Peanut  butter  and  jeUies  or  preserves  Mrs.  R.  L.  Keggereis 

ROQUEFORT  DIP 

1  Yz  ounce  portion  Roquefort  3  or  more  tablesp.  mayonnaise 

or  Blue  cheese  or  salad  dressing 

3-ounce  package  cream  cheese  Yz  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Blend  the  Roquefort  or  Blue  cheese  with  the  cream  cheese.  Add  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  sufficient  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing  to  make  it  of  dipping  con- 
sistency. Serve  in  bowl  with  crackers  or  potato  chips  to  be  dipped  in  mixture. 

Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 


BEVERAGES 


COFFEE  PUNCH 

Full  strength  coffee,  chilled  Whipped  cream 

Chocolate  ice  cream  Cinnamon 
Put  coftee  into  refrigerator  for  twenty-four  hours  before  making  punch.  Pour 
coffee  into  punch  bowl.  Break  ice  cream  into  moderate  size  portions  and  add 
to  coffee,  add  whipped  cream  by  tablespoons  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon. 

Mrs.  John  O.  Evans 

FRUIT  PUNCH  BOWL 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  lemon  juice 

1  cup  water  2  %  cups  water 

2  cups  canned  pineapple  juice  4  qts  gingerale 
2  cups  orange  juice 

Boil  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water  3  minutes,  add  juices  and  chill.  Just  before 
serving,  add  gingerale.  Garnish  with  ice  cubes  in  which  you  have  frozen 
cherries  or  fruit. 

Mrs.  John  O.  Evans 

HOT  FRUIT  PUNCH 

lYz  cups  sugar  Juice  of  one  lemon 

Rind  of  one  orange  Juice  of  4  oranges 

5  cups  water  lYz  tablespoons  tea 

8  whole  cloves  8  cups  boiling  water 

Boil  together  for  5  minutes:  sugar,  orange  rind,  cloves  and  water.  Strain  and 
cool.  Place  tea  leaves  in  an  enamel  or  earthen  ware  pot  and  pour  over  them 
8  cups  boiling  water.  Steep  3  minutes,  strain.  Mix  tea  and  syrup  and  fruit 
juices.  Keep  hot  until  ready  to  serve.  Do  not  boil. 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Barnes 

PUNCH 

Juice  of  9  oranges  or  2  No,  1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple 

2  cans  orange  juice  1  small  jar  cherries 

1  No.  2  can  grapefruit  juice  2  cups  sugar 

Juice  of  2  lemons  1  qt.  water,  boil  and  cool 

When  ready  to  serve  add  2  quarts  gingerale.  Serves  50. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 


9 


PUNCH  SERVES  25  PEOPLE 

6  oranges,  6  lemons,  juice  strain 
Cut  orange  and  lemon  peel  up.  Cover  with  water;  simmer  about  20  minutes, 
cool  and  strain.  Boil  3  cups  sugar  and  IVi  cups  water  about  10  minutes.  Mix 
together,  then  cool.  Put  in  refrigerator  in  glass  jar.  Add  2  cups  of  tea  and  2 
bottles  of  gingerale  when  ready  to  serve.  2  cherries  in  each  cup  and  crushed 
ice  as  needed.  Mrs.  }.  J.  Collier 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

1  qt.  water  cup  lemon  juice 

1/8  cup  tea  leaves  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  grape  juice  1  bottle  gingerale 

cup  orange  juice 

Make  tea,  cool,  add  fruit  juices  and  sugar.  Just  before  serving  add  gingerale. 

Mrs.  Ruby  Myers 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

4  oranges  P/4  cups  sugar 

1  lemon  5  cups  water 

Cook  sugar  and  water  together  with  the  rind  of  one  orange  (ground)  add 
fruit  juices.  Make  8  cups  of  tea  and  add  syrup  to  tea.  This  makes  16  cups. 
Put  cloves  in  cup  when  served. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Davis 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

4  oranges  Grated  rind  of  1  orange 

1  lemon  and  Vz  lemon 
1^2  cups  sugar 

Boil.  8  cups  good  strong  tea.  Serve  with  clove  in  cup.  Serves  16  or  18. 

Mrs.  Ruby  Myers 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

2^/2  lb.  sugar  2  sticks  cinnamon 

2  gal.  water  1  tsp.  whole  cloves 

Put  together  and  boil  8  to  10  minutes.  Take  off  of  stove  and  drop  in  %  cup 
tea  in  a  bag  and  let  remain  for  5  minutes.  Just  before  using  add  juice  of 
6  oranges  and  6  lemons.  Serve  50  cups.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Carson 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

Juice  of  6  oranges  7  cups  water 

Juice  of  IV2  lemons  2  cups  sugar 

reserve  hulls  1  scant  tsp.  cloves 

Boil  together  for  syrup.  Add  hulls  to  12  cups  water  and  boil  3  minutes, 
remove  hulls,  add  12  tea  bags  and  steep  3  minutes,  remove  tea  bags  and 
add  hot  syrup.  Serves  25.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Barnhardt 


MEDLIN-DAVIS 

Cleaners  of  Distinction 
123  N.  Salisbury  Street  Cameron  Village 


10 


FRUIT  PUNCH  MADE  WITH  PEPSI-COLA 

4  bottles  ice  cold  Pepsi-Cola  1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

1  cup  tea  1  small  bottle  maraschino 

1  cup  lime  juice  cherries 
1  cup  orange  juice  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

Mix  tea,  sugar,  fruit  juices.  Chill.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  bowl  with  a  large  piece 
of  ice  in  center.  Pour  the  chilled  Pepsi-Cola  over  mixture.  Serve  in  five-ounce 
glasses. 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Caddy 


PEPSI-COLA  BOTTLING  CO. 
OF  RALEIGH 


PHONE  3-1071 


POWELL  AND  GRIFFIS 

1700  Glenwood  Ave.  Phone  7561 

2428  Hillsboro  St.  Phone  2-2847 


PITTSBURGH 
PLATE  GLASS  COMPANY 

201  S.  Boylan  Ave.,  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


11 


BREADS  AND  ROLLS 


ICE  BOX  ROLLS 

Combine  1  yeast  cake,  1  teasp.  sugar,  ^4  cup  lukewarm  water  and  let  stand 
until  needed.  Pour  1  cup  boiling  water  over  3  tablesp.  sugar,  1  teasp.  salt, 
and  4  tablesp.  of  lard.  Allow  to  cool  to  lukewarm. 

Add  1  egg  beaten  slightly  and  yeast  mixture.  Add  2  cups  of  flour  and  beat 
smooth.  Then  add  3  cups  of  flour.  Let  rise.  Bake  in  425°  oven  for  12  or 
15  minutes.  Mrs.  Claude  Eury 

ICE  BOX  ROLLS 

cup  shortening  Mix  in  bowl 

^4  cup  sugar  and  let  cool 

Vi  cup  boiling  water 
Add  1  egg,  beaten 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  Yi  cup  cold  water 
Pinch  salt 

3  cups  flour,  beating  after  each  cup  thoroughly. 
Cover  with  wax  paper  and  put  into  refrigerator.  Make  out  1  to  2  hours  be- 
fore cooking  in  very  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Ed.  Stevens 

EVERLASTING  ROLLS 

Scald  one  quart  milk  2 — Sift  one  quart  flour 

Cool  to  lukewarm  2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Crumble  in  one  yeast  cake  3  teaspoon  salt 

1— Add:  3— Add  No.  1  to  No.  2 

One  quart  sifted  flour  Keep  in  refrigerator 

Let  rise  to  double  in  Make  out  an  hour  before 

volume  cooking 

Mrs.  Norwood  Smith 

REFRIGERATOR  ROLLS 

8  tablesp.  Crisco  Dissolve  1  pkg.  yeast  in 

Vz  cup  sugar  2  cups  lukewarm  water 

1  egg 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  well  beaten  egg.  Add  liquid  alternately  with 
6  cups  flour  to  first  mixture.  Place  in  large  covered  dish  in  refrigerator. 
Pinch  off  dough  and  roll  out  as  needed.  Let  rise  about  3  hours.  Bake  at  425°. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Winchester 


12 


LEMON  TOAST 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Ys  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  6  slices  buttered  bread 
Yz  cup  granulated  sugar 

Combine  lemon  juice  and  rind  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Spread  on  slices 
of  buttered  bread  and  place  in  hot  oven  or  under  broiler  until  delicately 
browned.  Serve  at  once.  Cut  bread  into  shapes,  if  desired.  This  always  makes 
a  hit  at  a  "Coke"  party,  and  is  equally  good  with  hot  tea. 

Mrs.  Alton  P.  Tripp 

NUT  BREAD 

lYz  cups  flour  1  cup  nuts  (chopped) 

cup  sugar  1  cup  candied  grapefruit  peel 

3  teasp.  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 
Yi  teasp.  salt  1  egg 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  slowly,  egg,  nuts  and  grapefruit 
peel.  Beat  well.  Put  in  greased  loaf  pan  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Bake  in 
slow  oven  (325)  about  one  hour.  Mrs.  Edward  Cannon 

WHIPPED  CREAM  WAFFLES 

1  cup  whipping  cream  4  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Yi  cup  sifted  flour  Ys  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs,  separated 

Whip  the  cream.  Beat  egg  yolks.  To  the  whipped  cream  add  beaten  egg 
yolks,  flour,  and  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  salt  over  egg  whites  and  beat  until 
stiff.  Fold  into  first  mixture,  and  bake  in  preheated  waflle  irons. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Mann 

WHOLE  WHEAT  WAFFLES 

1  Yi  cups  whole  wheat  flour  %  tsp.  salt 

(sifted)  2  tsp.  sugar 

Yi  cup  all-purpose  flour  6  tbsp.  shortening 

(sifted)  2  eggs,  separated 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  1  Yi  cups  milk 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients;  cut  in  shortening  until  mixture  is  mealy.  Com- 
bine egg  yolks  and  milk.  Add  dry  ingredients  to  milk  mixture  and  stir  only 
until  smooth.  Fold  in  stifl^ly  beaten  egg  whites.  Serves  6  waffles. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Carper 


FOR  A  BRAND-NEW  RICHNESS 
AND  FLAVOR  IN  YOUR  BREADS 
USE 

MELVILLE  MILK  &  SOUR  CREAM 

For  Home  Delivery  Phone 
SMITH-MELVILLE  DAIRIES 
2-0351 

13 


WAFFLES 

1  teasp.  salt  (level)  3  teasp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  (heaping) 

2  cups  milk  4  tbsp.  Wesson  oil 

2  cups  flour  (level) 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  Beat  milk  into  beaten  yolks.  Beat 
milk  and  egg  mixture  into  sifted  flour  and  salt.  Stir  in  oil,  fold  in  whites 
of  eggs  (stiffly  beaten).  Set  batter  in  refrigerator  for  several  hours.  When 
ready  to  cook,  fold  in  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  John  R.  Bourne 

SALAD  BISCUITS 

2^3  cups  sifted  all-purpose  6  tablespoon  shortening 

flour  1  can  condensed  cream  of 

4  teaspoon  baking  powder  celery  soup,  mushroom 

1  teaspoon  salt  soup,  or  chicken  soup 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  shortening.  Add  soup,  stirring  quickly 
until  a  soft,  but  not  sticky  dough  is  formed.  Turn  out  on  lightly  floured 
board  and  knead  gently  to  shape  into  smooth  ball.  Roll  lightly  to  Vz  inch 
thickness.  Cut  and  bake  on  greased  baking  sheet  Yi  inches  apart  in  450°F. 
oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

RIZ  BISCUITS 

Sprinkle  1  pkg.  granular  yeast  or  1  cake  compressed  yeast  over  Y'^  cup  luke- 
warm water.  Do  not  stir.  Let  stand  5  to  10  minutes,  then  stir  until  yeast  is 
dissolved.      Meanwhile,  sift  together: 

lYi  cups  sifted  flour  Yi  tsp.  soda 

1  tbsp.  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

Cut  in  with  pastry  blender  or  two  knives  until  mixture  looks  like  meal — 3 
tbsp.  shortening.  Stir  in — Yi  cup  lukewarm  buttermilk  and  the  dissolved 
yeast.  Knead  very  lightly.  Roll  out  Ya  inch  thick.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter. 
Place  half  the  rounds  on  greased  baking  sheet.  Brush  with  melted  butter. 
Place  remaining  rounds  on  top.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Let  rise  until 
double  in  bulk,  about  one  hour.  Bake  until  brown  at  400  degrees.  Makes 
about  two  dozen  biscuits. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Powledge 

HERB  BISCUITS 

To  regular  biscuit  recipe  or  biscuit  mix,  add  chopped  parsley  or  fresh  rose- 
mary. Whip  one  cup  heavy  cream  and  blend  in  lightly  with  flour.  Add  more 
liquid  if  needed,  but  no  more  cream.  Roll  on  floured  board,  handle  lightly. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

SALLY  LUNN 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  tsp.  salt 

1  yeast  cake  ^  6  cups  flour 

%  cup  shortening  cup  sugar 

3  eggs 

Scald  milk.  Add  shortening,  salt  and  sugar.  When  lukewarm  add  yeast  and 
beaten  eggs.  Beat  until  smooth.  Let  rise  until  double  in  size  or  bulk.  Stir  down 
and  put  into  mold  or  muffin  tins.  Let  rise  and  bake  at  350°,  40  to  60  minutes 
depending  on  size  of  pan.  Muffins  bake  more  quickly. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Carson 


14 


BANANA  BREAD 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 
Yz  cup  butter                              2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  Vi  tsp.  soda  in  1  tsp.  buttermilk 
Yz  cup  chopped  nuts                    3  large  bananas  well  mashed 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  unbeaten  eggs.  Add  soda  in  buttermilk  and 
then  bananas  and  nuts.  Stir  in  flour  slowly.  Bake  in  slow  oven  300  degrees 
50  minutes  or  until  done.  Use  loaf  pan. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brogdon 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD 

1  cup  sifted  corn  meal  2  cups  buttermilk  or  clabber 

2  cups  whole  wheat  flour  3  tbsp.  water 

2  teasp.  soda  1  cup  seedless  raisins, 

1  tsp.  salt  if  desired 

%  cup  molasses 

No.  2  fruit  tin  cans  may  be  used  as  molds  for  brown  bread  and  plum 
pudding,  with  4  layers  of  waxed  paper  as  covers.  Have  molasses  and  sour 
milk  cool — about  60F.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  raisins,  then  liquids,  and  stir 
quickly.  At  once  fill  greased  molds  %  full.  Tie  lids  down.  Set  on  a  rack  in 
boiling  water  in  a  steamer  or  deep  kettle,  cover  closely  and  bring  quickly 
to  a  rapid  boil.  Keep  boiling  steadily  for  3  hours.  Turn  out  of  molds  and 
stand  on  end  to  cool.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Excellent  in  cottage  cheese  sandwiches. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Wester 

NUT  BREAD 

1  Yi  cups  sugar  1  Yi  cups  boiling  water 
ly^  cups  flour                                  1  cup  nuts  chopped  fine 

2  tsp.  soda  (level)  1  pkg.  dates  (cut  up) 
Yi  tsp.  salt                                      2  eggs 

Yi  stick  butter  or  margarine  1  tbsp.  vanilla 

(melted) 

Cut  up  dates  and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  them.  Add  butter  then  eggs 
and  then  remaining  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Bake  in  two  average 
size  loaf  pans. 

Mrs.  R.  H.  Carson 

DATE  BREAD 

\Yi  cups  sugar  V/i  cups  boiling  water 

2%  cups  sifted  flour  1  pkg.  chopped  dates 

2  teasp.  soda  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Yi  teasp.  salt  2  eggs 

Yi  stick  butter  1  tbsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

Pour  boiling  water  over  chopped  dates  and  butter.  Add  beaten  eggs  and 
sugar,  then  vanilla.  Add  flour  last.  Cook  approximately  1  hour  at  325°.  Can 
be  baked  all  in  one  loaf  pan  but  better  to  make  2  smaller  loaves. 

Mrs.  John  R.  Bourne 

QUICK  CORN  CAKES 

To  2  cups  prepared  pancake  mix  add  Yi  cup  cornmeal.  Stir  in  one  beaten 
egg  and  2  cups  milk.  Bake  on  hot  griddle. 

Mrs.  Harold  Eckert 


15 


PIZZA  PIE 

Pizza  Bread  Dough:  2K  teasp.  salt 

1  pkg.  yeast  cup  shortening 

1  tbsp.  lukewarm  water  2  cups  boiling  water 
V/z  teasp.  sugar  6  cups  sifted  flour 

1.  Soften  yeast  in  lukewarm  water. 

2.  Put  sugar,  salt,  shortening  into  bowl.  Add  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
shortening  is  melted. 

3.  Cool  to  lukewarm  and  then  stir  in  the  yeast  mixture. 

4.  Add  about  Yz  sifted  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  then  gradually  add  remaining 
flour. 

5.  Divide  dough  into  4  portions;  roll  out  immediately  into  4  12"  rounds, 

y^"  thick. 

6.  Place  on  lightly  greased  cookie  sheets  (or  pie  plates)  and  let  rise  until 
double  in  bulk. 

Filling: 

1.  Salad  oil  or  olive  oil 

2.  3  cups  chopped  (peeled)  tomatoes  drained  (may  use  canned  tomatoes) 

3>.  Yz  lb.  sharp  cheese  grated  (or  crumbled  fine)  This  is  approximately  2 
cups  of  cheese. 

4.  1  medium  onion  sliced  into  thin  rings. 

5.  2  cloves  garlic,  minced. 

6.  Oregano  (or  pinch  each  of  thyme  and  sage) 
Method  for  filling: 

1.  Brush  dough  with  oil. 

2.  Add  chopped,  drained  tomatoes. 

3.  Add  sliced  onions,  seasoning,  cheese. 

4.  Sprinkle  with  salt. 

5.  Bake  at  425°  about  25  minutes. 

Note:  Can  add  sardines,  ripe  olives,  sliced  (cooked)  Italian  sausage,  sliced 
mushrooms,  sliced  bacon,  or  anchovies  for  variation. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Pope 

CINNAMON  BUNS 

lYi  cups  flour  3  tbsp.  baking  powder 

Ys  teasp.  salt  2  tbsp.  butter 

3  tbsp.  fat  Yi  cup  brown  sugar 

Yi  cup  milk  Yi  teasp.  cinnamon 

Mix  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cut  in  the  fat  and  slowly 
add  the  milk.  When  a  soft  dough  forms,  pat  it  out  until  it  is  thin.  Spread 
with  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  roll  up.  Cut  off  half-inch  slices  and  bake 
them  next  to  each  other  on  a  greased  baking  pan  for  ten  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  M.  G.  Mann 

CORNMEAL  PUFFS 

Yi  cup  flour  Sift  the  first  four  ingredients 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  lYz  cups  cornmeal — mix 
1  tbsp.  sugar                                    1  egg 

Yz  tsp.  salt  %  cup  milk — add 

Stir  until  all  ingredients  are  only  moistened.  Drop  by  teaspoon  in  deep  hot 
fat  375°.  Cook  until  brown  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Mrs.  Herbert  Mathews 

16 


HUSH  PUPPIES 

2  cups  corn  meal  %  tsp.  soda 

tsp.  salt  cup  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  1  egg 

lYz  cups  buttermilk 
Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly  and  drop  in  hot  fat  with  a  small  spoon. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Collier 

HUSH  PUPPIES 

2  cups  sifted  corn  meal  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
1  cup  sifted  flour  Yz  cup  chopped  onions 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  Yi  cup  buttermilk 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  water 

Yz  teaspoon  sugar  1  whole  egg 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  onion,  then  milk,  water,  butter  and 
last  the  egg.  Roll  in  balls  %  inch  thick.  Cook  in  deep  fat  350°  for  5-7  minutes. 

Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 

SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

Yi  teasp.  salt  1  cup  water 

3  tbsp.  butter  Heat  until  butter  dissolves 
Pour  over  lYz  cups  of  corn  meal.  Add  %  cup  of  cold  buttermilk.  To  this 
add  2  teasp.  baking  powder  and  1  egg.  Beat  well.  Pour  in  greased  baking 
dish.  Cook  for  30  minutes  in  400°  oven. 

Mrs.  Claude  Eury 

SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

%  cup  meal  2  teasp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  boiling  water 

2  eggs  1  tbsp.  shortening 

1  teasp.  salt  (1  teasp.  sugar  is  optional) 

Into  mixing  bowl  put  the  shortening,  salt  and  meal;  over  this  pour  the  boil- 
ing water,  mix  until  smooth,  free  from  lumps.  Add  milk  and  the  lightly 
beaten  eggs  to  the  mixture;  then  add  baking  powder;  pour  into  greased 
baking  dish  and  bake  30  to  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  (In  making  spoon 
bread  it  is  best  to  have  oven  hot  when  first  put  in,  then  decrease  to  moderate. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin 


FRIENDLY  CLEANERS 

WE  CLEAN  CLOTHES  CLEAN 
2910  Hillsboro  Street  Phone  3-6667 


17 


BATTER  BREAD 

1     cups  boiling  water  Vz  stick  oleo 

1  heaping  cup  cornmeal  1  tbsp.  sugar 

3  eggs  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  milk  IV2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Sift  meal,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking  powder  into  mixing  bowl.  Beat  eggs 
separately.  Melt  butter  in  baking  dish.  Pour  boiling  water  over  dry  ingre- 
dients, beating  thoroughly.  Add  melted  butter,  egg  yolks,  and  milk.  Fold 
in  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  hot  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  25-30 
minutes  at  375  degrees.  Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 

OLD  VIRGINIA  SPOON  BREAD 

1  cup  white  corn  meal  1  egg  well  beaten 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  rich  milk 

1  tbsp.  butter  IV2  tsps.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  sugar  (optional) 

Scald  the  corn  meal  with  the  boiling  water,  then  stir  in  butter,  salt,  sugar, 
and  well  beaten  egg.  Add  the  baking  powder  and  milk.  Turn  in  a  well 
buttered  pan  and  bake  for  40  minutes  in  a  375°  oven.  Serve  hot  with  butter. 
8  generous  servings.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Carson 

SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

1  cup  yellow  corn  meal  '/2  teasp.  salt 

1  pint  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

1  tbsp.  shortening  %  cup  sugar 

Stir  the  corn  meal  into  the  scalded  milk,  stir  and  cook  to  a  mush.  Let  cool 
a  little,  then  add  salt  and  sugar,  and  well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Lastly,  fold  in 
the  whites  beaten  stiflFly  and  the  melted  butter.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking 
dish.  Bake  45  minutes  at  400°.  Mrs.  Fred  W.  Habel 

CORN  MUFFINS 

1  cup  sifted  water-ground  meal  1  egg 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  Yz  tsp.  soda 

1  tsp.  salt  3  tbsp.  melted  shortening 

\Yi  cups  buttermilk 
Beat  egg,  add  milk,  then  meal,  baking  powder,  soda,  and  salt  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Then  add  shortening.  Pour  into  hot,  greased  muffin  pans.  Bake 
about  20  to  25  minutes  in  hot  oven  450  degrees,  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Roberta  Lynn 


JOHN  TREADWELL'S 

PERSON  STREET  PHARMACY 

Prescription  Specialists 
620  N.  Person  Street  Phone  6432 


18 


SOUTHERN  BATTER  BREAD 

1  cup  meal  3  teasp.  sugar 

1  teasp.  salt  1  heaping  teasp.  lard 
Pour  1  cup  boiling  water  over  above,  stirring  constantly. 

Add:         1  cup  sweet  milk  2  teasp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  well  beaten 

Beat  until  light,  pour  in  greased  baking  pan  or  dish.  Cook  30  minutes  in 
hot  oven.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Baird 

ICE  BOX  CHEESE  WAFERS 

2  cups  grated  cheese  1  tsp.  salt 

Yz  cup  butter  Y%  tsp.  red  pepper 

1  cup  flour  Chopped  nuts 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  form  into  rolls,  as  for  ice-box  cookies.  Wrap  in 
waxed  paper.  When  thoroughly  chilled  slice  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 

QUEEN  MUFFINS  WITH  BLUEBERRIES 

\Yi  cups  sifted  flour  lYi  tsp.  baking  powder 

Yi  cup  sugar  1  egg 

Yi  tsp.  salt  Yi  cup  milk,  scant 

cup  shortening 

Measure  shortening,  melt  and  set  to  cool.  Preheat  oven  to  400  degrees.  Sift 
flour,  measure  and  return  to  sifter.  Measure  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder 
and  put  in  sifter  with  flour.  Sift  dry  indgredients  into  mixing  bowl.  Grease 
muflRn  pans  with  melted  shortening  or  oil.  Beat  egg,  measure  milk  and  com- 
bine. Add  milk  mixture  to  dry  ingredients.  Before  completely  blended,  add 
cooled  shortening  and  stir  just  enough  to  mix.  Fill  muflin  cups  two-thirds  full. 
Bake  20  minutes.  Yi  cup  drained  blueberries  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

CHEESE  BISCUITS 

Yi,  lb.  butter  1  tablespoon  hot  water 

Ya  lb.  sharp  or  medium  cheese 
Work  in  as  much  flour  as  needed  to  make  in  roll.  Salt.  Little  red  pepper. 
Roll  and  set  in  refrigerator.  Cut  and  bake  at  375°  10  or  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Mann 

SPICED  COFFEE  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  (all-purpose)  |4  tsp.  cloves 
Yi  tsp.  salt  Yi  cup  Spry 

2  tsps.  baking  powder  1  well  beaten  egg 

1  cup  sugar  2  tbsp.  dark  molasses 

V/i  tsps.  cinnamon  ^  cup  milk 

Yi  tsp.  nutmeg 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  shortening  until  mixture  resembles  coarse 
crumbs.  Reserve  Yi  cup  of  this  mixture.  Add  egg,  molasses  and  milk  to 
remainder.  Mix  lightly.  Pour  into  waxed  paper  lined  8  inch  square  pan.  Top 
with  reserved  crumb  mixture.  Sprinkle  top  with  Yi  cup  chopped  pecan  nut 
meats.  Bake  for  40  minutes  in  moderately  hot  oven  375°.  Serve  while  warm. 

Mrs.  James  R.  Welday 

19 


CINNAMON  COFFEE  CAKE 

cup  butter  1  Yz  cups  flour 

Yz  cup  sugar  2  teasp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  Y^  teasp.  salt 

Yi  cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  egg  and  milk 
mixture.  Pour  into  two  8"  cake  pans,  sprinkle  top  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  375°.  Mrs.  Charles  Orth 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

Yi  lb.  butter  %  teaspoon  red  pepper 

Yi-  lb.  flour  (1  cup)  Ya  teaspoon  paprika 

Y4  lb.  N.  Y.  Cheddar  cheese 
Cream  butter,  grated  cheese  and  flour.  Put  through  cookie  press  and  turn 
out  into  design  desired.  Mrs.  Bernard  Crocker,  Jr. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  FINGERS 

Yi  cup  grated  cheese  1  onion,  grated 

Mix  with  mayonnaise,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  slices  of  bread  in 
thirds  and  spread.  Dot  with  tidbits  of  bacon  and  broil  until  bacon  is  crisp. 
Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Ralph  Fordyce 

BISCUIT  MIX 

8  cups  flour  4  tsp.  salt 

Y^  cup  baking  powder  1  Yi  cups  shortening 

Store  in  closed  jar  and  keep  in  refrigerator.  Use  as  necessary.  Good  for 
biscuits,  dumplings,  pancakes,  waffles,  etc.  Mrs.  Herbert  Mathews 

DATE  NUT  LOAF 

1  cup  hot  water  Yz  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  seeded  &  chopped  dates  %.  cup  brown  sugar 

Yi  cup  broken  nut  meats  1  egg 

cup  shortening  1  tsp.  soda 

Yi  cup  graham  flour  1  Yz  cups  flour 

Add  hot  water  to  nut  meats  and  dates  and  let  stand  while  preparing  the  follow- 
ing: Cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  egg  and  beat  well.  Add  the  above  date 
mixture  to  which  the  soda  has  been  added,  then  the  flour  and  salt.  Mix  well. 
Pour  into  a  greased  and  floured  loaf  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven,  350°, 
45  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  R.  Philpot 


ART  UPHOLSTERING  CO. 

Custom.  Built  Furniture 
REFINISHING  —  REPAIRING  —  UPHOLSTERING 
517  W.  North  Street         RALEIGH,  N.  C.  Phone  3-6352 

IDEAL  PAINT  AND  WALL  PAPER  CO. 

Wall  Paper  -  Paints  -  Oils  -  Varnishes 
Glidden  Paints  -  United  Wall  Paper  -  Dutch  Boy  Paints 
Telephone  7923  —  439  Glenwood  Ave.  —  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


20 


SOUPS 


ALMOND  SOUP 


1  cup  tomatoes 
1  cup  cream 
V2  lb.  shelled  almonds 
salt  and  pepper 


2  cups  chicken  stock 
1  Yj  cups  veal  or  beef  stock 
4  tbsp.  butter 

1  teasp.  flour  salt  ana  peppc 

Blanch  and  chop  almonds;  brown  slightly  in  a  little  butter.  Have  stock  strained 
and  ready  to  use.  Melt  butter;  add  flour  and  stir  until  blended.  Add  slowly  a  cup 
of  stock,  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  rest  of  stock  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  almonds  in  soup  cups,  pour  in  hot  soup,  and  add  one 
tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  when  serving  soup  to  the  table. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 


TURKEY  SOUP 

Place  in  4  quart  pressure  cooker  .... 
1  turkey  carcass,  broken  up 
4  cups  water 
cup  raw  rice 

cup  diced  scraped  carrots 


cup  chopped  celery  IcavcN 
2  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 
2  tbsp.  salt 
!4  tsp.  pepper 
tsp.  paprika 
y^  tsp.  poultry  seasoning 

Cook  at  15  lbs.  pressure  for  25  min.  Remove  cooker  from  heat.  Allow  pressure 
to  drop  gradually.  Uncover  cooker  according  to  manufacturer's  directions.  Skim 
off  any  fat.  Remove  turkey  bones.  Makes  2  quarts. 

Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 


cup  diced  celery 
/2  cup  chopped  onion 


BEAN  SOUP 

2  stalks  of  celery 
Yi  cup  water 

Cook  above  ingredients  together  slowly  until  all  are  tender.  Press  through  sieve. 
Add:  1  cup  milk  2  tbs.  tomato  ketsup 


1  can  pork  &  beans 
1  medium  onion 


Yi  cup  cream 
Heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 


1  tbs.  Worcestershire  sauce 
Mrs.  Edward  Cannon 


21 


OLD  FASHIONED  VEGETABLE  SOUP 

1  medium  soup  bone  1  small  can  butter  beans 

3  large  onions  1  small  cabbage  shredded 

2  cans  tomatoes  4  potatoes  (diced) 
2  carrots  (sliced)  Salt  and  pepper 

1  small  can  whole  kernel  corn  1  small  can  garden  peas 

Cook  soup  bone  and  onions  until  tender  in  enough  water  to  cover.  Add  potatoes, 
tomatoes,  cabbage,  and  carrots.  Cook  until  tender.  Add  other  ingredients. 

Jacques  E.  Fulghum 

MOTHER'S  CLAM  CHOWDER 

1  qt.  clams  Salt  and  pepper 

4  medium  white  potatoes  4  cups  boiling  water 
1/2"  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  2^  cup  cracker  crumbs 

2  sliced  onions  (optional) 

Clean  and  pick  over  clams,  using  1  cup  cold  water,  reserve  liquid  and  strain. 
Put  clams,  potatoes  and  onions  through  food  chopper  together;  cut  pork  in  small 
cubes  and  fry  until  crisp.  Add  reserved  clam  liquor,  ground  clams,  potatoes  and 
onions  to  boiling  water  and  boil  15  minutes,  then  add  pork  cubes  and  drippings 
to  chowder,  season  to  taste  and  simmer  25  minutes.  If  a  thicker  chowder  is 
wanted,  add  cracker  crumbs  just  before  serving. 

This  recipe  has  been  in  our  family  for  years,  passing  from  one  generation  to 
another.  Mrs.  W.  R.  Trull 

PENNSYLVANIA  DUTCH  ONION  SOUP 

Slice  thinly — 6  large  onions 

Cook  slowly — 30  min.  (lid  on)  in  3  tablesp.  margarine 
Stir  in — 1  tablesp.  flour 
Heat — 4  cups  whole  milk 

Add  to  onions — simmer  gently  for  15  minutes  (lid  on)  season  with  2  teas  p.  salt, 

teasp.  pepper 
Beat — 4  egg  yolks 
1  can  evaporated  milk 

Add — A  little  of  hot  soup  to  cream -egg  mixture  then  stir  into  soup  kettle — 
cook  5  minutes. 

Serves  6.  This  is  a  good  nourishing  soup  for  cold  weather  antl  especialK-  good 
for  people  who  have  colds. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Keggereis 


Compliments  of 
LAUNDROMAT  NO.  2 

1805  Glenwood  Avenue  Phone  4-2704 

GENE  MORING  FLORIST 

Flowers  For  All  Occasions 
2008  Fairview  Road  Phone  7666 


22 


CLEAR  SOUP 

12  Boiillion  Cubes  About  6  sticks  celery  cut  in 

10  Cups  water  small  pieces 

1  Small  can  tomatoes  1  Bay  Leaf 

1  Small  onion  cut  up  4  Whole  Cloves 

Simmer  the  above:  30  minutes  after  it  has  started  to  boil.  Add  1  tsp.  Worcester- 
shire sauce.  Strain  through  sieve.  One  egg  white  beaten — 1  egg  shell  and  drop 
in  soup  stirring  with  fork.  Boil  hard  3  min.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Grover 

FRENCH  ONION  SOUP 

2  lbs.  yellow  onions  5  beef  bullion  cubes 

5  tablesp.  bacon  drippings  circles  of  hard  buttered  toast 

5  cups  boiling  water  grated  parmesan  cheese 

Slice  onion  thin,  fry  in  bacon  drippings  until  brown,  dissolve  cubes  in  boiling 
water  and  add  to  onions,  cook  about  20  minutes.  Put  toast  in  bottom  of  soup 
bowl,  pour  soup  over,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Stephens 

FUEL  OIL 

KEROSINE 

METERED  SERVICE 


DIAL  3-4951 
RED  STAR  OIL  CO. 

B.  A.  DUBOIS  R.  M.  CALHOUN 

5217  HILLSBORO  ROAD 


TOWN  AND  COUNTRY  SHOP.  INC. 
Suits  -  Dresses  -  Sweaters  -  Skirts  -  Blouses 

1622  Glenwood  Ave.  —  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


23 


FOR  THE 

BEST  IN  MEALS 
SERVE 


THE  HAM  MAKES  IT  DIFFERENT 


MEATS 
and 
POULTRY 


%  lb.  ground  veal 
/4  lt>.  ground  pork 
Vi  It),  ground  beef 
1  cup  bread  crumbs 
1  medium  size  onion, 


MEAT  LOAF 


rated 


1  teasp.  salt 

14  tcasp.  pepper 

1  egg,  beaten 

can  tomato  soup 


Lightly  mix  all  ingredients  and  form  a  loaf.  Place  in  shallow  pan  or  baking  dish 
and  cover  with  the  following  sauce.  Bake  at  350°  V/i  hrs.,  basting  occasionally. 


SAUCE 


Yi  can  tomato  soup 
2  tablesp.  prepared  mustard 
1  tablesp.  molasses  or  brown 
sugar 


2  tablesp.  vinegar 
1  cup  water 

Mrs.  Wharton  Separk 


JELLIED  MEAT  LOAF 

1  y2  cups  corned  beef,  ham  or  6  tbsp.  water 

1/2  cup  salad  dressing 


other  meat 
3  hard  cooked  eggs 
%  cup  evaporated  milk 
1^/4  tbsp.  plain  gelatine 
1^/4  cubes  (bouillon) 


sp.  vmegar 


I'/z  tb 

2^/4  cups  peas 
teasp.  salt 
Ys  teasp.  pepper 


^Asparagus,  celery,  cucumbers,  carrots,  or  beans  may  be  used  in  place  of  peas. 
Rub  with  salad  oil  a  loaf  pan  measuring  about  8"  x  4"  x  3".  Soften  gelatine  in 
6  tbsp.  water.  Drain  and  save  liquid  from  peas  (should  be  1  cup) .  Heat  liquid 
to  boiling  point.  Add  and  stir  imtil  dissolved — bouillon  cubes.  Add  softened 
gelatine,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Chill  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Mean- 
while mix  together  salad  dressing,  salt,  pepper,  vinegar;  stir  in  gradually  evapor- 
ated milk.  Fold  into  salad  dressing  mixture  drained  peas,  corned  beef  (or  other 
meat),  chopped  eggs.  Then  fold  meat  mixture  into  chilled  gelatine  mixture. 
Chill  until  firm.  Slice  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Mrs.  Sam  Ruark 


25 


BARBECUED  WEINERS 

1  lb.  weiners  2  tablcsp.  vinegar 

1  tablesp.  flour  1  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

y2  teasp.  dry  mustard  cup  catsup 

1  teasp.  salt  1  medium  onion,  chopped  fine 

1  tablesp.  brown  sugar 

Add  about  6  tablespoons  water  to  sauce.  Pour  over  weiners  in  baking  dish. 

Cook  25  or  30  min.  at  about  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  George 

MACARONI  AND  FRANKFURTER  CASSEROLE 

%  pkg.  macaroni  1  tablesp.  ketchup 

14  cup  butter  1  tablesp.  minced  onion 

cup  flour  2  cups  milk 

14  teasp.  dry  mustard  pound  cheese,  processed  or 

1  teasp.  salt  sharp 

teasp.  pepper  4  or  5  frankfurters,  skinless 

Add  macaroni  to  boiling,  salted  water.  Cook  8  to  10  minutes.  To  make  sauce: 
Melt  butter  ,stir  in  flour,  mustard,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  milk,  stir.  When  thick 
add  cheese,  minced  onion  and  the  ketchup.  Stir  until  all  is  well  blended.  Add 
sauce  to  macaroni  which  has  been  drained.  Blend  well.  Cut  frankfurters — place 
layer  of  macaroni  in  greased  casserole.  Then  ad{l  layer  of  frankfurters.  Add 
balance  of  macaroni — top  with  frankfurters  and  slices  of  cheese.  Bake  20  minutes 
at  400°.  Serves  4. 

Mrs.  Richard  G.  Evans 

BAR-B-Q  WEINERS— SANDWICHES 

2  lbs.  hamburger  1  tablesp.  brown  sugar 

3  medium  sized  onions  2  tablesp.  Bar-B-Q  sauce  or 
salt  &  pepper  to  taste  chilli  powder  to  taste 

1  large  bottle  chilli  sauce 
Brown  onion  and  add  hamburger  and  stir  till  lightly  cooked.  Add  the  rest  of 
ingredients  and  cook  slowly  one  half  hour.  Serve  on  hot  dogs  and  buns. 

Mrs.  James  R.  Welday 

STUFFED  HAMBURGERS 

1  lb.  ground  beef  Dressing 

1  teasp.  salt  cup  milk 
14  teasp.  pepper                                 2  tablesp.  lard 

y2  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  1  can  condensed  tomato  soup 

Mix  meat,  seasonings,  bread  crumbs,  and  milk.  Make  into  thin  patties.  Place  a 
teaspoon  of  dressing  between  two  patties  and  press  edges  together  securely.  Brown 
in  lard.  Add  soup,  cover  and  simmer  45  minutes. 

Dressing:  teasp.  salt 

2  tablesp.  chopped  onion  teasp.  pepper 

3  tablesp.  butter  1    teasp.  poultry  seasoning 

cup  dry  bread  crumbs  water* 

*Brown  onion  in  butter.  Add  dry  ingredients  and  enough  water  to  moisten. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchinss 


26 


LIVER  AND  BACON  (Two  portions) 

4  slices  bacon  ^  teasp.  paprika 

1  tcasp.  salt  3  tablesp.  flour 

%  lbs.  liver 

Cover  slices  of  calves'  liver,  cut  Vz  inch  thick,  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  5 
min.  Drain.  Cut  into  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll 
in  flour.  Have  pan  hot.  Add  slices  of  bacon.  When  bacon  is  cooked,  pile  up  on 
side  of  pan  and  add  liver,  place  bacon  on  each  portion  of  liver  preventing  bacon 
from  becoming  too  well  done,  also  seasoning  the  liver.  Brown  liver  on  both 
sides.  Cook  about  ten  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Mrs.  T.  L.  Copley 

SWEET  STUFFED  VEAL 

I  boned  veal  shoulder  Yg  teasp.  pepper 

Yi  teasp.  poultry  seasoning  8-10  slices  trimmed  bread 

teasp.  salt  1  cup  peach  or  apricot  preserves 

^  teasp.  paprika  %  cup  coarsely  chopped  nuts 

Cut  the  veal  so  that  it  forms  one  large  flat  piece.  Place  skin  side  down  on  a 
flat  surface  and  spread  the  mixture  of  seasonings  on  the  meat.  Arrange  the 
slices  of  bread  on  the  meat.  Liberally  spread  the  bread  with  the  preserves  and 
sprinkle  the  nuts  over  the  top.  Roll  as  for  a  jelly  roll  and  secure  with  string  in 
several  sections.  Place  on  a  rack  in  a  roasting  pan  and  roast  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°)  for  about  3  hours,  or  30-35  minutes  per  pound.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Howard  Brown 

PORCUPINE  MEAT  BALLS 

1  Yi  pounds  ground  beef  1  tablesp.  grated  onion 

Yz  cup  uncooked  rice  I  lOYz  ounce  can  condensed 

1  teasp.  salt  tomato  soup 

Ys  teasp.  pepper  1  can  water 

Select  beef  from  neck,  shank,  or  plate  and  have  ground.  Combine  meat,  rice, 
seasonings,  and  onion;  shape  in  small  balls.  Mix  tomato  soup  and  water;  heat. 
Drop  in  meat  balls;  cover  and  cook  slowly  60  minutes.  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  Fred  W.  Habel 

CHIPPED  BEEF  AND  RICE 

Prepare  rice  for  6  servings  by  your  favorite  method,  boiled  or  steamed. 
Tear  apart:  1  package  chipped  beef  and  saute  in  frying  pan  with  a  little  butter 
or  bacon  drippings  for  about  1  minute.         Cover  with :  1  can  mushroom  soup 
Heat  until  thoroughly  blended  and  serve  over  rice.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Mullen 


THE 

SANDERFORD 

SAUSAGE  COMPANY 

WHOLESALE  ONLY 

Dial  5392  115  W.  Lane  Street  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


27 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  COOKING  VIRGINIA  HAMS 

1.  Soak  overnight  in  water. 

2.  Wash  ham  in  warm  water. 

3.  Place  in  boiler  with  enough  water  to  keep  from  sticking  to  bottom. 

4.  Cook  very  slowly  until  the  flat  bone  at  bottom  of  ham  leaves  meat.  This  wili 
be  about  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound  plus  twenty  minutes. 

5.  Remove  ham  from  boiler  and  skin  at  once. 

6.  Spread  a  thin  coat  of  brown  sugar  over  the  fat  or  top  of  ham;  stick  with 
whole  cloves  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  until  browned. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 

BEEF  CASSEROLE 

Pan  fry:  1  cup  onions  in       cup  shortening — Save  Y2 
Brown :  1  lb.  ground  beef 

Add :   1  cup  tomato  juice  3  or  4  stalks  celery — cut  up 

cup  onions  3  diced  carrots 

Flavor  to  suit  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  tabasco  sauce.  Simmer  10  minutes. 
Add  paste  made  of: 

cup  tomato  juice  Y3  cup  flour 

Yz  cup  catsup 

Simmer  15  minutes.  Pour  mixture  into  casserole,  top  with  pastry  made  of: 
1  cup  flour  2  tablesp.  shortening 

1  teasp.  baking  powder  Yi  cup  milk 

Yi  teasp.  salt  Y?.  cup  fried  onions 

Bake  until  pastry  is  done. 

Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Paschal 

>C  BRUNSWICK  STEW 

1  fat  hen  (5  lbs.)  cook  until  3  pkgs.  frozen  corn  (fresh  may 

falls  off  bones  be  used) 

4  lbs.  fresh  pork  (little  fat-no  1  qt.  Irish  potatoes,  diced 

bone)  Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste 

4  qts.  tomatoes  salt  to  taste 

1  qt.  onions,  diced  1  pod  red  pepper 

3  pkgs.  frozen  butter  beans 
Cook  hen  and  pork  until  falls  apart.  Pick  chicken  off  bones  and  put  meat  back 
into  stock.  Add  vegetables.  To  make  real  good  stir,  and  stir  and  stir,  especially 
as  it  gets  thicker  or  it  will  stick  to  kettle  and  scorch.  If  not  rich  enough  with  fat, 
add  butter  ^  or  Yi  It).  Cook  mixture  2  to  4  hours  or  until  thickness  you  desire. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 

1  large  can  tiny  lima  beans  4  or  5  potatoes 


1  can  "shoe-peg"  corn  4 


onions 


2  medium  sized  cans  tomatoes  Pinch  of  sugar 

ketchup  (No  juice  except  from  toma- 

Yz  pound  veal  toes) 
Yz  pound  pork 

Cook  meat  until  tender  and  chop  fine.  Cook  potatoes  and  onions  with  meat. 
Then  add  other  ingredients. 


Mrs.  L.  D.  Moore 


28 


PORCUPINES 

1  lb.  ground  beef  1  teasp.  salt 

y.  cup  bread  crumbs  1  teasp.  paprika 

^  cup  chopped  onions  Yi  cup  uncooked  rice 

2  tablesp.  chopped  green  peppers  2  cups  boiling  water 
Combine  meat,  crumbs,  onion,  green  peppers,  salt,  paprika,  and  ^  cup  rice. 
Mix  well.  Shape  into  8  balls.  Roll  each  ball  in  remaining  ^  cup  rice  and  press 
rice  into  meat  so  that  as  it  cooks  it  will  cling  to  meat.  Place  meat  balls  in  pan. 
Cover  with  tomato  soup  and  boiling  water.  Cover  and  simmer  45  min. 

Mrs.  John  Prescott 

FRANKFURTER  CASSEROLE 

Chop  and  saute  2  large  or  medium  sized  onions  in  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  bacon 
drippings.  Add  tomatoes  and  cook  20  minutes.  Mix  with  frankfurters  in  a 
casserole  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  20  to  25  minutes. 
Frankfurters  may  also  be  added  to  onions  and  tomatoes  on  top  of  stove  in 
skillet  they  were  cooked  in  and  just  brought  to  a  good  boil. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Park 


BEEFSTEAK  SUPREME 

2   lbs.  round  steak  4  tablesp.  crumbs 

1    teasp.  cinnamon  2  tablesp.  lard 

1  teasp.  allspice  1  No.  2  can  tomatoes 

1  tL-asp.  celery  salt  2  tablesp.  flour 

Yi  teasp.  salt  8  tablesp.  water 
teasp.  pepper 


Have  meat  retailer  cut  steak  about  1  inch  thick.  Cut  4  grooves  across  steak  being 
sure  not  to  cut  through.  Combine  seasoning  and  crumbs  and  fill  grooves  with 
mixture.  Roll  and  tie  securely.  Brown  in  hot  lard.  Add  tomatoes,  cover  and 
simmer  2  hours  or  until  tender.  Place  meat  and  any  whole  tomatoes  on  platter. 
Mix  flour  with  water  and  thicken  remaining  tomatoes.  Serve  hot  over  meat. 
Serves  6. 


Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchin 


gs 


CORN  BEEF  PATTIES 

2  cups  all  purpose  flour  6  tablesp.  shortening 

1  teasp.  baking  powder  1  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten 
Yi  teasp.  salt  Y3    cup  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients  add  shortening,  mix  thoroughly.  Add  egg  to  milk;  add  to 
dry  mixture  to  make  soft  dough.  Turn  on  board  and  roll  half  the  dough  Ys 
inch  thick,  cut  in  quarters.  Fit  into  muffin  tins;  fill  with  corn  beef  mixture,  fold 
the  edges  of  the  pastry  over  the  center,  pinch  edges  together.  Repeat  with  the 
remaining  dough.  Bake  in  hot  oven  425  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Corn  Beef  Filling 

2  tablesp.  butter  lYz  cups  canned  tomatoes 
^  cup  chopped  onion                          few  grains  black  pepper 

2  tablesp.  flour 

1 Y4  cups  cooked  corn  beef  cut  in  pieces 
Melt  butter,  add  onion;  cook  slowly  until  soft.  Add  flour,  stir  until  well  blended. 
Add  remaining  ingredients;  bring  to  boil  stirring  constantly  until  thick,  let 
simmer  about  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Stephens 

29 


SWISS  STEAK  (Three  portions) 

1  lb.  round  steak  %  in.  thick  cup  water 

5   tablesp.  flour  1  tablesp.  onion  juice 

1  bay  leaf  2  cloves 

tsp.  salt  1  tablesp.  bacon  fat 


3  tablesp.  pepper 


Wipe  steak  with  damp  cloth,  trim  and  pound  flour  into  steak.  Place  bacon  in 
frying-pan,  when  hot  add  steak.  Brown  well  on  each  side.  Lower  heat.  Add  bay 
leaf,  salt,  pepper,  onion  and  water.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  1|/^  hrs.  More  water 
may  be  added  if  gravy  boils  down.  Pour  gravy  over  steak  when  serving. 

ROAST  VENISON 

Cover  5  to  7  lb.  leg  of  venison  with  Cooked  Marinate  (recipe  below)  then  store 
in  refrigerator  for  at  least  24  hours,  or  longer  if  convenient. 
To  roast,  heat  oven  to  450°.  Heat  shallow  roasting  pan  in  oven.  Remove  skin 
and  tough  sinews  from  venison.  Lard  with  fat  salt  pork.  Sprinkle  with  salt; 
cover  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork.  Place  in  hot,  open  roasting  pan;  add  enough 
salad  oil  to  cover  bottom  of  pan.  Roast  at  450°,  allowing  about  18  min.  per  lb. 
for  mediimi  rare  or  25  min.  per  lb.  for  well  done.  Baste  with  salad  oil  during 
cooking.  Sei've  with  Mock  Chestnut  Puree  (see  recipe  below)  wild  rice,  and 
currant  jelly.  Makes  6  to  8  servings. 

Cooked  Marinate 
1  qt.  water  1  teasp.  dried  thyme 

1  y2  cups  vinegar  4  sprigs  parsley 

2  chopped  onions  12  whole  black  peppers 
1  cubed  pared  carrot  1  tablesp.  salt 

1  peeled  clove  garlic 

Put  all  ingredients  in  saucepan;  bring  to  boil,  and  simmer  1  hour.  Cool;  pour 
over  venison  or  any  furred  game,  as  directed.  Let  stand  24  hours  or  longer  before 
cooking.  Enough  to  cover  5  to  7  lb.  roast. 

Mock  Chestnut  Puree 
1  cup  mashed  sweet  potatoes  Yi  teasp.  salt 

1  cup  pureed,  cooked  dried  1  tablesp.  butter 

lentils  cup  heavy  cream,  whiped 

In  saucepan  mix  together  sweet  potatoes  and  lentils.  Add  salt  and  butter.  Heat 
over  low  heat  until  quite  hot.  Just  before  serving  add  whipped  cream.  Serve  with 
venison  or  other  game.  Makes  about  2  cups.  Mrs.  W.  R.  Trull 

BROWN  BEEF  STEW 

1^4  pounds  lean  beef,  cut  in      1  can  tomato  soup 
1^/4 -inch  cubes  4  medium  whole  carrots 

2  tablesp.  fat  10  small  whole  onions 

3  cups  boiling  water  4-5  medium  potatoes 

1  bay  leaf  2  stalks  celery,  cut  in  2-inch  pieces 

1^2  teasp.  salt  2  tablesp.  chopped  parsley 

Brown  meat  in  fat  in  deep  kettle  or  Dutch  oven.  Add  water,  bay  leaf  and  salt; 
simmer  about  1^4  hours,  covered,  or  until  meat  is  almost  tender.  Add  tomato 
soup,  carrots,  onions,  potatoes  and  celery;  simmer,  covered,  above  45  minutes  or 
until  vegetables  are  cooked.  Sprinkle  on  parsley  just  before  serving.  Makes  4-5 
generous  servings.  Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 


30 


BEEF  STEW  WITH  TOMATOES  AND  SPAGHETTI 

1 lbs.  chuck  beef  cut  in  1 in.  pieces,  across  the  grain 
Brown  very  thoroughly  in  any  good  fat.  Add  one  medium  onion,  sliced.  Salt  and 
pepper.  Enough  boiling  water  to  take  up  the  brown  in  the  pan.  Add  large  can 
of  tomatoes  and  bring  to  an  active  boiling  stage.  Reduce  heat  to  simmer,  cover 
tightly  and  cook  until  meat  is  tender — about  1  hour.  Cook  one  small  package 
spaghetti  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Drain  and  wash  with  hot  water  and  add  as 
much  as  needed  to  beef  and  tomato  mixture.  (This  is  better  on  second  day). 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Meyer 

STANDING  RIB  ROAST  BEEF  TO  SERVE  80-90 

50  lbs.  beef — 2  equal  size  roasts — (25  lbs.  each)  oven  ready 
Prepared  with  back  bone  cut  loose  but  tied  back.  Ribs  cut  loose  after  cooking. 
If  frozen  let  thaw  at  room  temperature.  Rub  fat  side  with  1  cup  salt  and  6 
tablesp.  pepper. 

Place  in  roaster  with  fat  side  up.  Dice  celery,  onions  and  carrots  on  top  for  flavor 
but  not  for  eating.  Add  a  small  amount  of  water.  Baste  occasionally  but  never 
add  water.  Roast  at  350°.  2^4  hours — medium  rare.  3^/4-4  hours — ^well  done. 
Let  roast  cool  3  hours  then  slice. 

W.  W.  Balentine  (Balentine's  Restaurant) 

HAM  LOAF 

2  cups  ground  cooked  ham  1  teasp.  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

y2  cup  milk  2  teasp.  Colman's  dry  mustard 

cup  cold  water  ^  teasp.  French's  black  pepper 

1  onion,  sliced  thin  1  teasp.  butter 

Mix  together  well.  Mold  into  loaf  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  one 
hour.  Sprinkle  top  with  a  little  brown  sugar  before  baking. 
This  is  a  wonderful  way  to  use  those  last  bits  of  ham. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  George 

HAMWHEATIE  LOAF 

2  lbs.  ground  pork  1  cup  tomato  juice 
Vi  lb-  ground  ham  (cured)                   2  teasp.  salt 

3  cups  wheaties  ^  teasp.  pepper 
2  eggs 

Mix  together  and  make  into  loaf.  Cook  at  350  degrees  about  1^  hours. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin 

HAM  STEAK 

1  ham  steak — Yi"  to  V  thick 

Sauce:  1  cup  brown  sugar,  Yi  cup  water,  2  tablesp.  vinegar. 
Dissolve  sauce.  Place  in  heavy  skillet.  Place  ham  in  sauce.  Cover  and  baste  oc- 
casionally, cooking  about  1^  hrs.  at  350  degrees,  in  oven. 

Mrs.  Sam  Ruark 

FIVE  MINUTE  STEAKS 

^  lb.  ground  beef  ^  cup  milk 

1  tablesp.  onion  salt  and  pepper 

Toast  bread  on  one  side.  Spread  other  with  butter,  tiny  bits  of  mustard  and  meat. 

Place  under  broiler,  cook  about  5  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Copley 

31 


JELLIED  HAM  LOAF 

2  cups  ground  cooked  ham  2  hard-cooked  eggs 

cup  chopped  celery  1  pimiento,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  1  cup  mayonnaise  or  cooked 

onion,  chopped  dressing 
1  tablesp.  gelatine  in       ^^^P  ^^^^  water.  Melt  over  boiling  water.  Mix  together 
and  mold.  Put  in  icebox  to  harden.  Mrs.  Powell  G.  Fox 

HAM  A  LA  KING  IN  TOAST  SHELL 

(Makes  6  servings) 
Toast  shell  2  cups  milk 

4  tablesp.  butter  or  margarine  1  can  (3  oz.)  sliced  broiled 

4  tablesp.  flour  mushrooms 
Yz  teasp.  salt  1  pimiento,  diced 

1  teasp.  prepared  mustard  2  cups  cooked  ham,  cut  in 

1  teasp.  grated  onion  bite-size  pieces 

1 .  Prepare  toast  shell  (directions  follow) . 

2.  Melt  butter  or  margarine  in  medium-size  saucepan. 

3.  Blend  in  flour,  seasonings,  and  onion;  stir  in  milk. 

4.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  sauce  thickens  and  boils  1  minute. 

5.  Stir  in  mushrooms  and  liquor,  pimiento,  and  ham;  reheat. 

6.  Pour  into  toast  shell;  serve  at  once. 

TOAST  SHELL 

Remove  crusts  from  9  thin  slices  fresh  bread.  Completely  cover  bottom  and  sides 
of  9"  pie  plate  with  bread  slices,  placing  slices  around  edge  with  1  corner  of  each 
overhanging  rim  of  pie  plate  to  form  pointed  design.  Press  bread  firmly  against 
pie  plate.  Brush  lightly  with  melted  butter  or  margarine.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
(350°)  15  to  20  minutes,  or  until  points  are  lightly  browned. 

Mrs.  Travis  Tomlinson 

ROAST  RUMP  OF  VEAL 

1  6Y2  to  7Y2  lb.  rump  roast  of  veal 
4  or  5  strips  of  salt  pork 

Place  roast  on  wire  rack  in  uncovered  roaster.  Top  with  salt  pork  strips.  Add  no 
water,  do  not  baste  or  turn.  Roast  at  325  degrees,  allowing  31  minutes  per  pound, 

Mrs.  Sam  Ruark 

BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS 

2  lbs.  veal  steak  1  cup  water 

1  egg,  beaten  1  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

bread  crumbs  salt  and  pepper 

4  tablesp.  drippings 

Dip  veal  in  egg  and  crumbs.  Season.  Brown  in  drippings.  Place  in  Casserole  or 
baking  dish.  To  drippings  in  skillet,  add  water  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Pour 
il.  Cover.  Place  in  cold  oven.  Temperature  350°.  Bake  lYz  hours. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Copley 


over  veal 


WAKE  UP  WARM  WITH 
LONDON  OIL 
AND  BE  A  WARM  FRIEND  OF 
GEORGE  E.  LONDON 


32 


ROAST  BEEF 


4  lb.  beef  roast  1  tbsp.  Worcestershire 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  sauce 

2  tbsp.  flour  1  Vz  cups  water 

Wipe  the  meat  and  lay  on  rack  in  roasting  pan.  Place  one  tablespoon  water  in 
the  pan.  Dust  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Baste  often  during  cooking.  Beef 
should  be  roasted  in  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  until  well  seared  over,  then  reduce 
heat  and  cook  allowing  30  minutes  for  first  pound  and  12  to  15  minutes  for 
each  additional  pound.  Use  remaining  flour  in  gravy. 

Mrs.  M.  V.  Sanderford 


POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF 

4  lbs.  chuck,  round,  or  3  tbsp.  fat 

rump  of  beef  Salt  and  pepper 

cup  flour  Yz  cup  water 

Dredge  meat  with  flour  and  brown  on  all  sides  in  hot  fat.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  water,  cover  and  cook  slowly,  until  tender — 3  to  4  hours.  As  the 
liquid  cooks  away  add  more  as  needed.  Serves  8  or  more.  Variation:  Use 
tomatoes  or  tomato  juice  in  place  of  water. 

Mrs.  M.  V.  Sanderford 


FOIL-ROASTED  TURKEY 

(Recipe  developed  for  use  with  Reynolds  Wrap  only) 
Clean,  stuff  and  truss  turkey,  rub  with  seasoning,  salt  and  fat. 

To  wrap:  Place  turkey  on  a  long  sheet  of  Reynolds  Wrap,  more  than  twice  as  long 
as  the  bird.  Fold  foil  over  turkey,  join  edges  firmly.  For  a  large  bird,  join  two  long 
pieces  with  a  tight  double  fold  in  center. 

To  roast:  Place  wrapped  turkey  in  a  shallow  open  roasting  pan.  Use  a  rack  in  the 
pan  if  you  have  one.  Roast  in  a  pre-heated  moderately  hot  oven  (400°F)  for  length 
of  time  given  in  table.  (Cooking  time  varies  with  tenderness,  size  and  shape  of  the 
individual  bird.) 

Pounds  of  Cooking  time  Cooking  time 

stuffed  weight  min.  per  pound  hrs.  per  bird 

8  to  10  20  2V2-3 

11  to  14  18  314-4 

15  to  18  16  4-4% 

19  to  24  15  5-6 

To  brown:  During  last  45  minutes  open  and  slip  foil  from  around  turkey,  letting 
juices  run  into  pan.  Cut  trussing  strings  between  legs  and  tail  so  these  parts  may 
brown.  Brush  turkey  with  melted  fat. 

Your  turkey  is  done  if  you  can  move  a  leg  and  thigh  joint  readily.  Or  insert  fork  in 
thick  place  where  wing  is  joined  to  body — if  meat  feels  tender  and  juice  does  not  run 
pink  your  turkey  is  ready. 

Save  that  foil  for  wrapping  the  leftover  turkey.  It  will  keep  it  fresh  and  moist  for 
many  days  of  refrigerator  storage,  and  when  reheating  the  whole  bird  or  slices,  re- 
heat right  in  the  aluminvim  foil,  so  they  will  be  restored  to  fresh  roasted  flavor. 


33 


BARBECUED  SPARERIBS 

Brown  1  medium  size  onion  in  3  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tablesp.  butter  and  combine  with  teasp.  mustard 

2  tablesp.  vinegar  1  cup  water 

2  tablesp.  brown  sugar  cup  chopped  celery 

4  tablesp.  lemon  juice  1  teasp.  salt 

1  small  bottle  catsup  teasp.  red  pepper 

Pour  over  sparcribs  and  simmer  for  one  hour  in  350°  oven. 


Mrs.  Claude  Eur 


JELLIED  HAM  LOAF 

1  tablesp.  gelatine  1  green  pepper,  chopped 
J4  cup  cold  water  small  onion 

2  cups  ground  ham  2  hard  cooked  eggs 
^2  cup  chopped  celery  1  tablesp.  lemon  juice 
1  cup  mayonnaise  1  pimento,  chopped 

Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  dissolve  over  boiling  water.  Mix  all  ingredients, 
adding  mayonnaise  last.  Mold.  Serves  8. 

Mrs.  G.  E.  Passmorc 

CHILI  CON  CARNE 

1  lb.  ground  round  steak  1  lb.  onions 
Yi  lt>.  ground  pork  ^t).  bacon 

Cut  bacon  in  small  pieces  and  fry  crisp  and  drain  on  paper,  hito  this  grease  put 
meat,  chopped  onion  and  1  tablespoon  salt.  Cook  slowly  until  brown.  Into  large 
pot  put  3  cans  kidney  beans,  3  cans  tomato  soup.  Put  in  brown  meat  and  onions 
and  crisp  bacon.  Add  2  tablespoons  chili  powder.  Cook  slowly  about  1  hour. 
This  mixture  should  be  thick.  Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

PORK  CHOPS  CASSEROLE,  COTTAGE  STYLE 

6  pork  chops  2  cups  sliced  raw  potatoes 

2  tablesp.  flour  teasp.  pepper 
1  teasp.  salt  2  cups  hot  milk 
1  teasp.  minced  parsley 

Brown  the  chops  on  both  sides  in  a  frying  pan.  Grease  a  deep  casserole  and 
place  3  chops  on  the  bottom.  Combine  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  parsley  and  sprinkle 
^  of  this  over  the  3  chops.  Cover  with  half  the  potatoes.  Repeat  the  layers  and 
pour  in  the  milk.  Cover  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°)  for  ly^  hours,  un- 
covering for  the  last  20  minutes  to  brown  the  top.  Serves  6.  (This  recipe  is  easy 
to  cut  in  half  for  3  servings.)  Variation:  Add  a  layer  of  onions  to  first  layer 
of  poatoes.  Mrs.  R.  G.  Keggereis 

BEEF  MEXICANA 

Yi       ground  beef  ^  Niblets  corn  (drained) 

1  large  sliced  onion  %  teasp.  salt 

2  teasp.  margarine  teasp.  pepper 
2  cans  Hunt's  tomato  sauce 

Saute  onion  in  margarine  until  tender.  Add  beef  and  brown  lightly.  Stir  to  break 
up.  Add  tomato  sauce,  corn  and  seasoning.  Add  chili  powder  to  taste.  Cover 
and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Serve  on  top  of  fluffy  rice. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Shields,  Jr. 

34 


BAKED  PORK  CHOPS 

6  pork  chops  6  tablcsp.  brown  sugar 

6  slices  of  lemon  1  can  tomato  soup 

Place  chops  on  pyrex  dish,  put  one  slice  of  lemon  on  each,  sprinkle  each  chop 
with  1  tablesp.  brown  sugar.  Add  can  of  water  to  tomato  soup.  Pour  over 
chops.  Bake  I/2  hours  450°  oven.  (Don't  add  salt).  Mrs.  W.  H.  Baird 

BREADED  PORK  CHOPS 

Boil  pork  chops  until  tender  but  not  broken,  let  get  cold.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  pinch 
of  salt  and  pepper,  one  cup  of  course  bread  crumbs.  Dip  chops  in  egg,  then 
crumbs  until  a  thick  layer  is  taken  up,  then  fry  until  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Smith 

SPANISH  PORK  CHOPS 

4  pork  chops  1  cup  uncooked  rice  (washed 

1  can  tomatoes  clear) 
1  large  onion  salt  and  pepper 

Place  pork  chops  in  roaster  or  any  pan  that  has  a  top  that  is  large  enough  to 
place  pork  chops  on  the  bottom.  On  top  of  each  pork  chop,  put  ^  cup  of  rice. 
Add  sliced  onions  on  top  of  the  pork  chops  and  rice.  Next  add  a  can  of  tomatoes 
ever  complete  dish.  Use  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  in  oven  at  325°  for  1 
hour.  Add  small  amount  of  water  occassionally  to  keep  moist.  Never  let  it  get  dry. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

STUFFED  PORK  CHOPS 

Select  6  pork  chops  cut  1"  thick  and  split  each  chop  down  to  the  bone.  Prepare 
stuffing  as  follows:  1  teasp.  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  teasp.  pepper 

1  teasp.  celery  salt  Yi  large  chopped  onion 


finely  chopped  green  pepper  1  e| 


1  tablesp.  dry  parsley  ^^P  n^elted  butter 

Beat  egg,  add  butter  and  other  ingredients.  Put  stuffing  in  each  "chop  pocket. 
Hold  together  by  toothpicks.  Sear  meat  in  oven  for  20  minutes  at  400°.  Then 
add  1  cup  boiling  water  and  reduce  heat  to  300°  and  cook  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Dave  Griffis 

SPANISH -STYLE  PORK  CHOPS 

6  pork  chops  1  large  green  pepper 

%  cup  raw  rice  Salt  and  pepper 

Worcestershire  sauce  2  large  onions 

1  large  can  tomatoes 
Salt  and  pepper  chops  generously  and  fry  until  brown.  Remove  from  pan.  hi  same 
pan  fry  onions,  green  peppers  and  raw  rice  until  brown.  Add  tomatoes  and 
seasonings.  Simmer  until  tender.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  replace  chops  in 
tomato  mixture  to  reheat.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Fulghum 


THE   ELITE  SHOP 

Miss  Bessie  Johnson 
Coats,  Suits,  Blouses,  Sportswear,  Skirts,  and  Dresses 
Cameron  Village  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


35 


BEEF  CHOW  MEIN 

2  lbs.  diced  steak  1  can  bean  sprouts 

1  Yi  cups  celery  1  small  can  water  chestnuts 

1  Yi  cups  onions  pepper 

2  tablesp.  sauce  salt 

Brown  steak — add  onions,  celery.  Cover  with  water.  Cook  tender,  thicken  with 
flour,  add  sprouts  and  chestnuts  just  before  serving.  Serve  with  rice  and  noodles. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 

CORNED  BEEF 

Six  lbs.  first  cut  brisket  garlic 

rub  with  /4  teasp.  salt  peter  teasp.  ginger — -Yi  cup  brown 

salt,  pepper — Yi  clove  chopped  sugar 

Put  in  crock — put  a  brick  on  top  of  lid.  Let  stand  10  days,  turning  every  day. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 


MEAT  LOAF  DINNER  —  PRESSURE  COOKER 


1  lb.  ground  beef 
1  Yi  tsp.  salt 
Y%  tsp.  pepper 
Ys  tsp.  chili  powder 
1  egg,  lightly  beaten 
Yi  cup  poultry  mix 
(moistend  with  water) 


1  small  onion,  chopped  fine 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped  fine 

2  tbsp.  fat 

5  med.  sized  potatoes,  whole 
4  carrots,  cut  crosswise 
Yi  cup  water 
Yi  cup  tomato  juice 


At  least  30  minutes  before  cooking,  combine  beef  with  salt,  pepper,  chili  pow- 
der, egg,  poultry  mix,  onion,  and  celery.  Mix  well  and  form  into  small  loaves 
and  wrap  in  waxed  paper.  This  will  set  the  loaves  and  keep  them  firm.  Brown 
loaves  in  hot  fat  in  pressure  pan  until  golden  brown  on  both  sides.  Place  pota- 
toes and  carrots  around  meat.  Add  water  and  tomato  juice.  Set  control  at  10 
lbs.  and  cook  15  minutes  after  control  jiggles.  Allow  pressure  to  go  down  nor- 
mally. Serves  5  or  6. 

Mrs.  David  Sutton 


JOHN  W.  EVANS'  SON,  INC. 

AUTOMOBILE  BODY  WORK,  PAINTING,  UPHOLSTERING 
AND  GENERAL  REPAIRING 

DIAL  2-4673 
135  E.  Morgan  St.  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


36 


CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

Boil  in  salt  water  until  tender:  Breast  of  two  chickens 

Remove  meat  from  bones  and  skin  and  cut  into  bite  size  pieces  or  slices.  About 
20  minutes  before  serving  time,  pre-heat  oven  to  450°.  Combine:  2  cups  of 
biscuit  mix  and  about       cup  milk. 

Stir  with  fork  until  well  blended  and  pour  into  four  greased  individual  ring 
molds.  Place  an  baking  sheet  and  put  into  oven  to  bake  until  brown.  While 
biscuit  rings  cook,  place  chicken  in  frying  pan  and  cover  with:  1  can  of  mush- 
room soup 

Stir  and  heat  thoroughly.  Remove  biscuit  rings  from  oven,  fill  center  of  rings 
with  chicken  mixture,  letting  sauce  spill  over  edges  of  the  rings,  and  serve 
immediately.  This  quantity  should  serve  four  people,  but  I  have  never  known 
it  to  stretch  that  far.  You  will  need  to  try  it  to  determine  how  far  it  will  go 
with  your  family.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Mullen 


FAVORITE  INDIA  CHICKEN  CURRY 

y2  cup  finely  chopped  onion  1  teasp.  curry 

y,  cup  finely  chopped  celery  4  cups  diced,  cooked  chicken 

Yi  cup  fat  4  cups  hot,  cooked  rice 

cup  flour  salt  and  pepper 

2  cups  chicken  stock  1  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  cup  tomato  juice 

Lightly  brown  onion  and  celery  in  hot  fat.  Add  flour  and  blend.  Add  stock; 
cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  tomato  juice,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
seasonings,  and  chicken.  Heat  thoroughly.  Serve  over  cooked  rice  or  make  ring 
mold  of  rice  and  fill  center  with  curry  mixture. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Powiedge 

CHICKEN  TETRAZZINI 

Cook  one  chicken  until  tender  in  plenty  of  water.  Save  the  broth.  Cook  1  pound 
bacon  until  crisp.  In  the  bacon  grease  cook  7  or  8  medium  onions  until  tender. 
Then  add  1  large  can  tomatoes,  2  or  3  cans  mushrooms,  2  small  jars  stuffed 
olives,  and  cayenne  pepper.  Cook  together.  Add  crushed  bacon  and  chopped 
chicken.  Heat  broth  to  boiling  point.  Cook  2  packages  of  spaghetti  (broken  in 
small  pieces)  until  tender.  Then  put  a  layer  of  spaghetti  and  a  layer  of  mixture 
alternately.  Lay  slices  of  American  cheese  on  top.  Use  covered  dish.  Heat  in 
moderate  oven.  Remove  top  the  last  few  minutes. 

Serve  chicken  tetrazzini  with  grapefruit  salad,  toasted  French  bread  or  crisp  bread 
sticks,  lemon  sherbert  and  cookies.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Watts 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

2  mcdiimi  sized  chickens  cooked  thoroughly.  Pick  from  bones  and  run  through 
a  grinder.  Dissolve  1  box  Knox's  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.  To  this  add 
the  liquor  (about  1  qt.)  in  which  chicken  has  been  boiled  and  which  has  been 
cooled  and  skimmed.  Pour  into  a  long  pan  one  half  inch  of  the  liquor,  allow  it 
to  congeal,  then  add  a  layer  of  chicken  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Next  put 
a  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  pour  over  this  enough  liquor  to  cover.  Let  harden 
and  then  add  another  layer  of  chicken  and  the  eggs,  with  a  layer  of  gelatine  on 
top.  When  hard,  turri  out,  cut  in  squares,  serve  with  mayonnaise  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Moore 


37 


CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

2  cups  chopped  cooked  chicken  1  egg  yolk 

%  cup  thick  white  sauce  teasp.  celery  salt 

V2  teasp.  salt  1  teasp.  lemon  juice 

Dash  of  paprika 

Combine  chicken,  sauce  and  seasonings.  Stir  in  egg  yolk.  Shape,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  then  into  slightly  beaten  egg,  and  again  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep, 
hot  Mazola. 

Mrs.  P.  M.  Bernstein 

CHICKEN  CURRY 

1  hen  (5  to  6  lbs.)  cook,  bone,  remove  skin,  cut  meat  in  bite  size  pieces,  rather 
large.  Reserve  1  quart  of  stock.  Saute  2  crushed  cloves  of  garlic  in  2  tablesp. 
chicken  fat,  then  1  cup  sliced  onions.  (Do  not  brown) .  Add  stock.  Drain  liquor 
from  large  can  of  mushrooms.  Dissolve  flour  (1  tablesp,  per  1  cup  liquid)  in  it. 
Add  to  hot  liquid  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Set  aside.  When  ready  to  serve, 
heat  thoroughly;  add  1  grated  apple,  mushrooms,  and  2  teasp.  vinegar — lastly 
add  chicken.  Heat  thru,  do  not  break  up  pieces,  and  serve  with  steamed  rice.  Put 
curry  over  rice.  On  top  put  small  amount  each  of  following — at  least  7: 
Chopped  green  onions  Sieved  egg  yolks 

Crushed  peanuts  Shredded  or  grate  cocoanut 

Crushed  crisp  bacon  Chutney  (a  must) 

Sieved  egg  whites  Relish 

Mrs.  Sam  Ruark 

CHICKEN  AVOCADO  SUPREME 

Cook  5  lbs.  chicken  in  a  quart  of  water.  Add  salt,  celery  leaves,  1  large  onion,  cut 
up,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  When  chicken  is  tender,  lift  out  and  cool.  Save  the 
stock.  Remove  the  skin  and  take  the  chicken  off  the  bones  in  as  large  pieces  as 
possible.  Put  the  bones  and  skin  back  into  the  chicken  stock.  Add  1  cup  more 
water  and  simmer  slowly  another  hour.  Strain  stock.  Melt  cup  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  add  V3  cup  flour  (stir  and  beat  until  smooth) .  Add  4  cups  chicken 
stock  and  heat,  stirring  until  the  consistency  of  heavy  cream.  Add  pieces  of 
chicken,  simmer  until  chicken  is  well  heated.  Stir  in  2  egg  yolks  which  have 
been  beaten  slightly  with  ^  cup  of  the  chicken  gravy.  Heat  slowly  about  5 
minutes,  stirring  all  the  while  so  the  egg  yolks  will  not  curdle.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Just  before  serving  add  cubes  or  balls  cut  from  2  medium  size 
avocados.  Heat  a  few  minutes  longer.  Serve  over  pimento  rice  and  sprinkle  with 
toasted  slivered  almonds. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

SKILLET -BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

1  214  lb.  fryer  or  broiler  cut  in  1  cup  distilled  white  vinegar 
pieces  1  cup  water 

2  tablesp.  butter  1  dried  red  pepper  pod 
1  teasp.  salt 

Brown  chicken  in  hot  fat,  then  drain.  Don't  use  fat  chicken  is  fried  in.  Melt 
butter  and  add  vinegar,  water  and  red  pepper,  bring  to  boil.  Add  chicken  and 
simmer  in  covered  skillet  until  meat  is  almost  of?  bone.  Thicken  the  barbecued 
sauce  and  serve  with  chicken.  This  is  delicious  over  baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Trull 


38 


DREAM  CHICKEN  (Serves  30) 

12  or  14  lbs.  of  hens  1  box  gelatin 

1  cup  almonds  4  to  6  cups  stock 

1  cup  small  peas  6  hard  boiled  eggs 

3  cups  celery  1  cup  mayonnaise 

Soak  gelatin  in  stock  and  add  as  listed.  Mrs.  E.  I.  Terry 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 

1  large  frying-size  chicken  1  cup  flour 

salt  and  butter 

Clean  well  and  cut  in  pieces  one  large  frying-size  chicken.  Put  flour  and  salt  to 
taste  in  paper  bag  and  shake  the  chicken  in  the  bag  until  covered  with  flour. 
Place  pieces  of  chicken  in  greased  casserole  dish  (13"  x  IVz"  x  2")  and  dot  well 
with  butter.  Add  water  until  about  deep  in  dish;  cover  and  cook  in  325 
degree  oven  one  hour.  Remove  cover  and  brown.  Add  more  water  if  necessarv; 
also  turn  one  time  while  browning.  Mrs.  Howell  DeBerry,  Jr. 

CHICKEN  LOAF 

1  hen  (about  four  cups  of  4  eggs  well  beaten 
chicken)  cut  fine.  1  teasp.  salt 

2  cups  of  rice  ^2  teasp.  pepper 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  dash  of  red  pepper 

^  cup  pimento  ,    ,         1/4  pints  chicken  broth 

^  cup  melted  butter 

Cook  in  flat  greased  pan  30-35  minutes  at  medium  temperature.  Do.  not  over 

cook.  Serve  with  rich  chicken  gravy  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 


Drive  In 

HOLLOWAY'S  ESSO  SERVICE 

''Your  Friendly  ESSO  Dealer' 
In  Raleigh's  Cameron  Village 
FOR  COMPLETE  CAR  SERVICING 


39 


CHICKEN  TETRAZZINNI 

1  4  or  5  lb.  hen  1  small  can  pimenta 

1  pkg.  spaghetti  1  can  small  peas 

1  stalk  celery  1  large  can  mushrooms 

1  large  onion  salt,  pepper  and  Worcestershire 

1  garlic  bud  sauce 

Boil  hen  in  water.  Add  cut-up  celery,  onion,  salt,  pepper,  garlic  (cooked)  and 

Worcestershire  sauce. 

Boil  spaghetti  10  minutes  in  chicken  broth,  mix  peas,  chicken,  pimentos,  mush- 
rooms. 

Combine  with  rich  cream  sauce.  Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 

CHICKEN  WIGGLE 

1  chicken,  cooked,  boned,  and  1  small  box  spaghetti,  cooked 

cut  fine  and  drained 

1  can  mushroom  stems  or  1  can  tiny  peas 

mushroom  soup  1  qt.  white  sauce 

1  small  can  pimentoes 
Combine  ingredients  and  simmer  until  well  blended.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Best  served  in  pastry  shells. 

Mrs.  S.  W.  Ruark 


CHICKEN  CHOW  MEIN 

2  cups  diced  cooked  chicken  2  tablesp.  soy  sauce 

2  cups  diced  celery  2  tablesp.  corn  starch  in  cup 

3  medium  onions  sliced  water 

1  can  beef  gravy  1  can  bean  sprouts  (drain) 

1  cup  chicken  stock 
Cook  onions  and  celery  in  a  little  stock  until  tender.  Add  chicken,  gravy  and 
stock  and  cook  20  minutes.  Add  sprouts  and  thickenings.  Serve  over  canned  dry 
noodles  and  rice. 


Mrs.  Dave  Griffs 


CHICKEN  PIE 

1  chicken  cooked  and  chopped 

Add  1  cup  of  broth  to  Vi  can  of  mushroom  soup. 

Place  in  pan  with  pie  crust  over  mixture. 


Mrs.  Claude  E 


ury 


"Lots  of  Success  on  Your  Bazoar" 

WOODLIEF'S  BEAUTY  SHOP 

Specialists  in  Hair  Styling  and  Permanent  Waves 
2511  Foiryiew  Road  Phone  5632 


40 


TIRE  SALES  &  SERVICE 
COMPANY 

GOODYEAR  TIRES  —  GENERAL  ELECTRIC 
APPLIANCES 

—  MOTOROLA  RADIO  &  TELEVISION  — 

Hillsboro  -  Harrington  -  Morgan  Streets 

Phone  7571  P.  O.  Box  9351 

RALEIGH,  N.  C. 


THE  GRAPHIC  PRESS,  INC. 


offers  a  complete 


printing  service  -  both  letterpress  and  lithog- 
raphy. We  have  the  trained  personnel  to 
give  the  printing  buyer  any  or  all  assistance 
he  may  need.  These  services  include: 

•  IDEAS 

•  COPY  WRITING 

•  LAYOUT  AND  DESIGN 

•  FINISHED  ART 

•  COMPLETE  PLANNING  AND  PRODUC- 
TION of  direct  advertising  campaigns, 
catalogs,  instruction  manuals  and  sim- 
ilar work. 

No  job  is  too  large  or  too  small.  When 
you  think  of  printing  .  .  . 


CALL  or  WRITE 


DISTINCTIVE     PRINTING     IS  ECONOMY 

324  SOUTH   BLOUNT  ST.  TELEPHONE  7178    •  2-4028 

RALEIGH,    NORTH  CAROLINA 


SEAFOODS 


MOCKED  DEVILED  CRAB 
(With  apologies  to  the  Crab) 

To  one  or  two  cups  of  cooked  squash,  mashed,  add  one  can  of  tuna  fish,  2 
hard  boiled  eggs,  about  cup  of  finely  crumbled  crackers,  %  cup  melted 
butter  or  margarine.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one 
teasp.  lemon  juice.  Fill  crab  shells,  sprinkle  tops  with  cracker  meal,  add 
teasp.  butter  to  each.  Brown  in  400°  oven.  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  E.  I.  Terry 

DEVILED  CRABMEAT  CASSEROLE 

Combine  .  .  . 

1^2  cups  milk  cups  soft  bread  crumbs 

Gently  stir  in  .  .  . 

2  cups  flaked  cooked  crabmeat  (2  7-oz.  cans  or 
1  lb,  fresh  crabmeat) 

whites  of  4  hard  cooked  eggs,  finely  sliced 
Blend  in  .  .  . 

yolks  of  4  hard-cooked  eggs,  mashed 
IV2  teaspoon  salt 

1/3  teaspoon  dry  mustard  or  prepared  mustard 

Vs  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

V2  cup  butter,  melted 
Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  450° 
for  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

DEVILED  CRABS 

1  qt.  crab  meat  Red  and  black  pepper,  salt 

8  hard  boiled  eggs  1  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

1/3  lb.  butter  tsp.  dry  mustard 

hand  full  bread  crumbs  ^2  pt.  cream 

Juice  of  one  lemon  Pick  crab  meat 

Mash  egg  yolks  while  still  warm,  add  butter  and  cream  with  crab,  soak 
crumbs  with  milk — add  to  mixture  parsley  and  other  ingredients.  Mix 
well  and  if  mixture  is  not  soft — add  more  cream.  Fill  shells  and  top  with 
crumbs.  Cook  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 


43 


FLORENTINE  DEVILED  CRAB 

1  pound  crab  meat  Dash  of  nutmeg 

1  pint  heavy  white  sauce  3  green  peppers 

6  hard  boiled  eggs  (chopped^  A  little  chopped  parsley 

1  tbsp.  prepared  mustard 
Mix  all  ingredients.  Fill  crab  shells.  Put  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese  on  each 
and  buttered  bread  crumbs  over  cheese.  Bake  slowly  for  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Moore 


CRABMEAT  MUSHROOM  CASSEROLE 

Blend  together  .  .  . 

lYi  tablespoon  butter  lYj  tablespoon  flour 

4  tablespoons  shaved  cheese  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Add 
Add 


V/z  cups  milk  Cook  in  double  boiler 


1  pimento,  sliced  1  can  mushrooms, 

1  can  crabmeat  sauted  in  butter 

Pour  everything  in  a  buttered  casserole  and  use  plenty  of  crumbs  on  top. 

Dot  the  top  with  a  dozen  small  pieces  of  cheese  and  pieces  of  butter.  Bake 

at  350°  until  it  is  piping  hot. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchings 

CRAB  MORNAY 

In  a  chafing  dish  or  double  boiler  melt  6  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine  and 
blend  in  6  tablespoons  flour.  Drain  liquid  from  2  small  cans  button  mush- 
rooms into  measuring  cup.  Add  enough  chicken  stock  (may  be  made  from 
chicken  bouUion  cubes)  to  make  V/i  cups.  Add  this  into  the  flour  and  butter 
with  V/z  cups  cream  or  undiluted  evaporated  milk,  1  small  chopped  onion, 
3  tablespoons  chopped  pimento  or  green  pepper,  lb.  Gruyere  cheese,  lb. 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  1  tablespoon  mono  sodium  glumate.  Cook  stirring 
constantly  until  sauce  is  thick  and  cheese  is  melted.  Add  salt,  black  and  red 
pepper  to  taste.  Add  mushrooms  and  2  7-oz.  cans  crab  meat.  Fresh  or  frozen 
crab  meat  can  be  used.  Serve  on  rounds  of  pie  crust. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

FINAN  HADDIE 

In  double  boiler  put  piece  of  butter  size  of  egg 
1  pt.  cream 

3  lbs.  Finan  Haddie  (Shredded  with  fork) 
Add  2  hard  boiled  eggs  Yi  cup  sherry 

Little  mustard  and  pepper  Serve  on  toast. 

3  eggs  beaten  slightly 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Grover 


BAKED  FLOUNDER 

Cut  crosswise  into  servings,  rub  in  thyme,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  stand  for 
awhile,  slice  onions  in  bottom  of  pan.  Place  fish  on  onions,  pour  one  can 
tomato  paste  over,  and  add  chipped  bacon.  Bake  1  hour  325°. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 


44 


SEAFOOD  CASSEROLE 

1  medium  lobster  tail  (boil  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

20  minutes  in  salt  water)  1  large  onion  (par  boiled) 

Yz  to  %  lb.  crab  meat  Several  bay  leaves  (optional) 

Yi  lb.  cooked  shrimp  Butter,  salt  and  pepper 

Butter  casserole.  Combine  above  ingredients,  placing  all  in  casserole.  Dot  with 
butter  and  few  cracker  crumbs.  Cook  for  30  to  40  minutes  in  preheated  oven 
325°.  Serve  with  tossed  salad,  a  green  vegetable  if  desired  and  rye  bread  or 
"Brown  and  Serve  Rolls."  Mrs.  Earl  Umstead 

SHAD  (BAKED) 

3  lbs.  fish  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  small  onion  (chopped)  -        6  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

4  tbsp.  Worcestershire  1  egg 

6  tbsp.  bacon  drippings  3  tbsp.  meal 

1  cup  boiling  water  Salt  and  pepper 

Dress  and  salt  fish.  Combine  bread  crumbs,  onion  and  3  tablespoons  parsley, 
2  tablespoons  of  Worcestershire,  egg,  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  fish  with 
this  dressing.  Place  fish  in  baking  pan.  Sprinkle  fish  and  baking  pan  with  meal 
and  the  rest  of  the  parsley,  add  fat  and  place  in  medium  oven.  Cook  with 
increasing  heat  until  meal  is  well  browned,  then  add  boiling  water  and 
remainder  of  Worcestershire.  Reduce  heat  slightly,  baste  frequently  and  cook 
until  done.  This  is  equally  good  for  baking  trout. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

SALMON  LOAF 

1  can  salmon  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  bread  or  cracker  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
crumbs                                          1  tbsp.  butter 

2  eggs,  beaten  Salt  and  pepper 

Flake  salmon,  mix  with  other  ingredients  and  bake  in  an  oiled  pan  for  one 
hour  in  a  moderate  (350°)  oven.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Keggereis 

TUNA  CASSEROLE 

Cook  Yi  pound  of  noodles  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  them. 
Flake  enough  canned  tuna  fish  with  a  fork  to  make  1  cupful.  Mix  the  tuna 
with  the  noodles,  and  stir  in  gently  I  can  of  mushroom  soup.  Turn  all  into 
a  greased  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  and  bake  at  350°  for  40 
minutes.  Mrs.  H.  F,.  Hitchings 

SALMON  LOAF  WITH  CHEESE 

2  cups  cooked  salmon,  3  tbsp.  milk 

flaked,  (1  tall  can)  1  tbsp.  melted  butter 

V/i  cups  grated  American  Yi  tsp.  salt 

cheese  Few  grains  pepper 

1  egg,  well  beaten  Cracker  or  breadcrubs 

Combine  ingredients,  using  crumbs  enough  to  obtain  stiff  mixture.  Shape  in 
loaf  in  baking  pan.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  at  375  degrees,  until 
golden  brown  (about  30  minutes).  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Carper 


45 


SALMON  OR  TUNA  CASSEROLE 

2  cups  cooked  broad  noodles  1  can  grated  tuna 

IV2  cups  cream  sauce  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cups  grated  cheese  3,  tsp,  chili  powder 

1  tbsp.  chopped  onion  3  tbsp.  evaporated  milk 

1  can  salmon  with  bone  and  1  tbsp.  chopped  parsley 

skin  removed  or 
Mix  all  together  and  cook  about  30  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Russell 

SALMON  CAKES 

1  large  can  salmon  may  be  used) 

lYz  teasp.  salt  1  tbsp.  mayonnaise 

1  teasp.  black  pepper  1  teasp.  chopped  parsley 

2  teasp.  mustard  (parsley  flakes  may  be  used) 
1  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs 
1  yolk  of  egg  (1  whole  egg 

Mix  all  of  above  ingredients  together.  Form  into  4  large  cakes,  pressing  well. 
Dip  into  flour,  then  into  beaten  eggs  and  then  bread  crumbs.  Fry  rapidly  in 
hot  greased  pan.  Serve  with  potato  salad  or  cole  slaw. 

Mrs.  Dale  Starbuck,  Jr. 

TUN  A  -  MUSHROOM  CASSEROLE 

1  small  can  tuna  fish  1  can  cream  of  mushroom 

1  medium  bag  potato  chips  soup  or  sauce 

Line  bottom  of  baking  dish  with  potato  chips.  Break  up  tuna  fish  and  place 
on  this,  then  pour  soup  or  sauce  (undiluted)  over  the  tuna.  Bake  in  slow 
oven  until  thoroughly  heated.  Serves  4  to  6).  Mrs.  B.  C.  Reavis 


CONSOLIDATED  INSURERS,  INC 

SOUND  MUTUAL  INSURANCE 
FOR  EVERY  NEED 
T.  A.  DICK,  Manager 


BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS 
E.  W.  Stalvey  W.  G.  Weems 

Hugh  Johnson  H.  D.  Godfrey 

J.D.Lamm  W.  W.  Merriman,  Jr. 

W.  C.  Gibson  J.  W.  Branham 

T.  E.  WilHamson 

405  W.  Peace  Street  Tel.  4-3461 


46 


VEGETABLE 

and 
CASSEROLE 
DISHES 


FRENCH  FRIED  EGGPLANT 

Cut  eggplant  into  14  in.  cubes.  Soak  15  minutes  in  strong  salt  water  with  1  teasp. 
of  vinegar  added.  Drain  cubes  thoroughly.  Roll  in  flour.  Brown  in  deep  fat. 
Allow  to  drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Wells 

GLAZED  CARROTS 

Steam  carrots  until  tender.  Add  lump  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  orange 
marmalade.  Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

SCALLOPED  EGGPLANT 

1  medium  eggplant  (firm)  V2  medium  green  pepper 

2  level  tablesp.  butter  1  small  onion 
^  teasp.  salt                                       ^/^  cup  milk 

6  soda  crackers  cheese  or  bread  crumbs 

2  slices  pimento 

Peel  eggplant  and  cut  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small  potato.  Put  in  stewing 
pan  and  add  cup  of  water  and  teasp.  of  salt.  Boil  about  10  minutes  or  until 
tender,  drain.  Add  butter,  teasp.  salt  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Crush  soda 
crackers  and  add.  Add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  stir  well.  Pour  in  greased 
casserole  and  cover  with  grated  cheese  or  bread  crumbs.  Cook  in  350  degree 
oven  until  slightly  firm,  but  not  dry.  Mrs.  Howell  DeBerry,  Jr. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Grease  a  lYz  quart  Casserole  with  fat  or  butter.  Heat  oven  to  400°  F.  Heat  2" 
water  in  double  boiler  bottom,  also  heat  1"  water  in  covered  sauce  pot.  Prepare 
lYz  cups  thinly  sliced  peeled  onions,  ^Yi  cups  sliced  potatoes.  Melt  3  tablespoons 
butter  or  margarine  in  double  boiler  top:  stir  in  7  teaspoons  flour,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  Ys  teaspoon  each  pepper  and  paprika.  Next  stir  1  %  cups  milk  into  mixture, 
stirring  constantly  until  smooth  and  thickened.  Now  to  boiling  water  in  sauce 
pot,  add  2  teaspoons  salt,  the  onions  and  drained  potatoes.  Boil  these,  covered 
5  minutes.  After  these  have  cooked,  drain.  Arrange  Y3  of  the  potatoes  and  onions 
in  greased  casserole.  Sprinkle  one  tablespoon  parsely  on  potatoes  and  pour  on 
Y3  sauce.  Then  add  another  Y3  potatoes  and  onions,  rest  of  parsley  and  Yz 
remaining  sauce.  Now  arrange  rest  of  potatoes  on  top  and  pour  on  rest  of  sauce. 
Bake  for  35  minutes  or  until  tender  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Dow  Pender,  Jr. 

47 


EGG  PLANT  FRITTERS 

1  medium  size  egg  plant,  waffle  batter  (1  cup  flour). 
Boil  egg  plant  slices  until  tender.  Drain  and  mash  to  a  pulp.  Add  to  waffle 
batter  and  drop  by  teaspoon  into  hot  deep  fat,  cook  until  golden  brown  and 
drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serve  hot.  Mrs.  John  O.  Evans 

CORN  FRITTERS 

1  cup  water  1  cup  flour 
14  teasp.  salt                                       3  eggs 

y2  teasp.  sugar  2  cups  creamed  corn 

2  tablesp.  butter 

To  make  the  batter,  boil  the  cup  of  water,  putting  into  it  the  salt,  sugar  and 
butter.  Then  work  in  the  flour,  stirring  until  you  have  a  dry,  smooth  paste.  Now 
take  the  mixture  off  the  fire,  cool  slightly  and  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  mix- 
ing thoroughly.  Mix  in  the  corn.  The  dough  should  be  fried  in  moderately  hot 
(leep  fat.  Drop  into  the  fat  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  until  fritters  are  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  Richard  G.  Evans 


BAKED  CARROT  RING 

2  bunchs  carrots  (scraped) 
Cook  until  well  done;  and  all  water  dried.  Cream  like  potatoes.  Add  cream, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  1  small  grated  onion,  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten.  Fold 
in  whites  of  2  eggs  (well  beaten) .  Butter  ring  mold,  put  in  mixture,  place  ring 
in  pan  of  water.  Cover  and  bake  in  oven  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Mrs.  Harold  Eckert 


BAKED  BEANS 

4  cups  navy  beans  1  tablesp.  salt 

Yi  lb.  salt  pork  ^  teasp.  pepper 

1  cup  molasses  3  cups  boiling  water  (from 

1  teasp.  dry  mustard  simmered  beans) 

Wash  beans;  pick  over;  soak  3  hrs.  in  boiling  water  to  cover.  Cover,  bring  to 
boil  in  same  water  (to  preserve  minerals  and  vitamins)  adding  extra  water  if 
needed  to  cover  well;  skim;  cook  slowly  imtil  tender — about  50  min.  Drain, 
reserving  water.  Turn  beans  into  bean  pot  or  3  qt.  casserole.  Scrape  pork  rind 
until  white,  score  top  by  cutting  down  about  1  in.  and  bury  in  beans  with  rind 
exposed.  Mix  remaining  ingredients  and  pour  over  beans.  Cover;  bake  in  slow 
oven  (325°  F.)  3^/^  hours,  or  until  tender,  uncovering  during  baking.  12  servings. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Wester 


BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

2  cups  pea  beans  /4  teaspoon  mustard 

lb.  salt  pork  cup  brown  sugar 

2  teaspoons  salt  teaspoon  pepper 

Y2  teaspoon  baking  soda 
Pick  over  beans  carefully.  Wash  and  soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing, drain,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  add  soda  and  parboil  until  tender.  Drain 
again  and  blanche  with  cold  water.  Put  the  beans  in  bean  pots  and  bury  the 
pork  in  these.  Put  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  mustard  in  bowl.  Mix  well  and  add 
1  cup  boiling  water.  Pour  over  beans,  add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  Bake 
6  to  7  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  L.  B.  Crosby 

48 


OVEN  ROAST  POTATOES 

Peel  potatoes,  cut  in  1  inch  blocks.  Spread  flat  in  biscuit  pan,  brush  with  melted 
butter,  bake  until  done.  W.  W.  Baletine  (Balentine's  Restaurant) 


CREAMED  TURNIPS  AND  ONIONS 


Mrs.  Howard  Brown 
SPANISH  EGGPLANT 


2  green  peppers,  cut  fine 

2  medium  eggplants,  pared  and  cut  in  small  pieces 

2  tbsp.  oil 

6  ripe  tomatoes  or  No.  2  can  solid  pack  tomatoes 

3  tsp.  salt 
1  tsp.  paprika 


Brown  eggplant  and  green  peppers  in  oil.  Add  tomatoes  and  seasoning.  Con- 
tinue cooking  until  eggplant  is  tender  (about  20  minutes).  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  Roy  H.  Lane 


BAGWELL  &  BAGWELL 

ALL  FORMS  OF  INSURANCE 


FIVE  POINTS  PHARMACY 

"Next  to  Colony  Theatre" 


Telephone  6667 


300  S.  Salisbury  St. 


Raleigh,  N.  C. 


1620  Glenwood  Ave. 


Phone  2-4644 


49 


ANY  RECIPE  IS 

BETTER 
WHEN  COOKED 


ELEmiCALLY! 


(CAROLINA  POWER  &  LIGHT  COMPANY) 


ORANGE  SWEET  POTATOES 


%  cup  firmly  packed  brown  sugar         1  cup  membrane-free  orange 
V4  cup  seedless  raisins  sections 
^  8  teaspoon  salt  !4  cup  orange  juice 

2  pounds  sweet  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter  or  margarine 

Mix  together  sugar,  raisins,  and  salt.  Pare  and  cut  sweet  potatoes  in  %-inch 
lengthwise  slices.  Place  alternate  layers  of  potatoes,  orange  sections  and  sugar 
mixture  in  greased  IVz-quart  casserole.  Pour  in  orange  juice.  Dot  with  butter. 
Cover.  Bake  in  oven  at  325 °F  for  VA  hours.  Makes  6  servings. 

Mrs.  Howard  Brown 


BROCCOLI  AND  ONION  CASSEROLE 

Cook  2  packages  frozen  or  fresh  broccoli  until  barely  tender.  Drain  out  all  water, 
also  drain  water  from  2  cans  tiny  whole  onions.  Put  layer  of  broccoli  in  oiled 
casserole,  then  layer  of  onions  and  repeat  until  used.  Cover  with  1  can  mushroom 
soup.  Sprinkle  over  buttered  bread  crumbs  or  crushed  ritz  crackers.  Bake  20  to 
25  minutes  at  350°. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Park 


MEXICAN  CHEVELLE  SCALLOP 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  Chevellc 

2  cups  whole  milk  1  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tablesp.  butter  1  teasp.  salt 

1/2  pound  pkg.  Shcfford  3  eggs  slightly  beaten 

Soak  bread  in  milk  for  10  min.  Melt  butter  in  pan.  Add  grated  chevellc  (save 
a  little  to  sprinkle  on  top).  Heat  slowly  until  it  melts.  Add  bread,  mixture  and 
cook,  stirring  constantly  until  slightly  thickened.  Mix  beaten  eggs,  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  salt.  Add  to  thickened  mixture.  Heat.  Transfer  to  casserole  and 
sprinkle  with  chevellc.  Bake  in  slow  over  325°  for  20  minutes.  Served  with  hot 
chili  sauce. 

Mrs.  Ruby  Meyers 


CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN 

1  qt.  cauliflower  1 1/2  cups  cream  sauce 

cup  grated  cheese  bread  crumbs 

Cook  cauliflower  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and  season  with  melted 
butter.  Mix  cheese  and  cream  sauce  and  pour  over  cauliflower.  Place  in  buttered 
baking  dish,  cover  with  toasted  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Brussels 
sprouts  or  cabbage  can  be  used  in  place  of  cauliflower  if  preferred. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 


SPINACH  CASSEROLE 

1  chopped  onion — or  more  to  taste,  fry  in  butter.  Add  1  tablesp.  flour,  blend, 
then  add  %  cup  milk.  Add  1  pkg.  cheese  (Velveeta;  etc.),  chopped.  Barely  sim- 
mer, until  cheese  is  melted.  Pour  over  prepared  and  drained  spinach.  Add  bread 
crumbs.  Heat  in  oven  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Powell  G.  Fox 


51 


SPINACH  OR  BROCCOLI  SOUFFLE 

1  box  frozen  spinach  or  broccoli  cooked  until  tender  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
1  granted  onion. 

Mix  1  can  mushroom  soup  and      cup  milk 

Mix  y2  can  soup  and  3  egg  yolks  (well  beaten)  with  cooked  vegetable. 
Fold  in  well  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  well  buttered  baking  dish  allowing 
space  for  rising.  Sprinkle  cheese  over  top,  a  few  sliced  roasted  almonds  may  be 
added  to  this  mixture  if  desired  or  scattered  on  top.  Bake  in  pan  of  hot  water 
in  moderate  oven  50  to  60  minutes.  Serve  with  J/^  can  of  mushroom  soup  mixture. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 


CORN  PUDDING 

1  can  cream  style  corn  salt  and  pepper  (small  amt.) 

4  eggs  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

1  pt.  milk  2  tablespoon  flour 
1/2  cup  sugar 

Beat  eggs,  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  milk,  butter  and  corn.  Cook  40  or 
45  minutes  in  oven  350°.  If  not  done  in  the  middle,  stir  just  a  little  from  the 
side  of  the  pan.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Hinton 

LIMAS  IMPERIAL 

2  cups  dried  limas  4  strips  bacon  or  ^  cup  bacon 
1  qt.  water  drippings 

1  medium  onion,  sliced  1  can  tomato  soup  (condensed) 

teasp.  pepper  ^  cup  vinegar 

3  teasp.  salt  1^/2  cups  bean  liquor 

1  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  teasp.  (prepared  mustard) 

Wash  and  soak  beans  overnight,  drain.  Add  1  quart  of  water,  2  teasp.  salt;  bring 
to  boil,  simmer  45  minutes  or  until  beans  are  soft.  Drain,  reserving  liquor,  and 
place  in  1 quart  casserole.  Add  remaining  salt  to  soup  with  vinegar,  bean 
liquor,  mustard,  pepper,  and  Worcestershire  sauce;  simmer  together  5  minutes. 
Pour  over  beans.  Top  with  bacon  or  add  drippings,  and  bake  at  450  degrees  for 
^5  minutes.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Carper 

ASPARAGUS  SUPREME 

1  can  asparagus  ^  cup  chopped  pimento 

1  can  cream  mushroom  soup  1  cup  grated  cheese  (Amei- 

Yi  cup  blanched,  chopped  ican) 
almonds 

Make  Yi  recipe  white  sauce,  heat,  add  mushroom  soup,  grated  cheese,  almonds, 
pimento.  Now  alternate  layers  of  asparagus  and  sauce  in  casserole  dish,  topping 
with  buttered  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
done.  Mrs.  John  E.  Treadwcll 


F  L  Y  T  H  E 

SALES  &  SERVICE 
224  S.  Salisbury  St  Phone  5097 


52 


NEW  ENGLAND  SUCCOTASH 

1      cups  cooked  corn,  whole  cup  light  cream 

or  kernel  2  tablesp.  diced  salt  pork 

1  cups  cooked  lima  beans  Salt  and  pepper 

Add  cooked  lima  beans  to  corn,  mix  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Parboil 
diced  salt  pork,  drain  and  saute  until  golden  brown.  Add  the  pork  to  the  corn 
and  lima  beans.  Simmer  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 

EGG  RING 

6  eggs  (not  beaten  too  much)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  cups  milk 

Bake  in  ring  mold — in  pan  of  water  for  about  35  min.  Serve  creamed  mushrooms 
in  center.  Mrs.  E,  B.  Grover 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

4  cups  thin  sliced  potatoes  tsp.  pepper 

^4  cup  thin  sliced  onion  2  tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

2  tbsp.  flour  1     cups  milk 

1  tsp.  salt 

Place  halt  of  the  potatoes  in  greased  casserole.  Sprinkle  half  of  flour  mixture 
(salt,  pepper  and  flour)  evenly  over  potatoes.  Top  with  half  the  onions  and 
dot  with  butter.  Add  remaining  potatoes,  flour,  onion,  dot  with  butter,  pour 
milk  (room  temperature)  over  potatoes.  Cover  and  bake  about  30  minutes. 
Remove  cover,  continue  baking  about  45  minutes  or  until  potatoes  are  tender 
and  lightly  brown.  Mrs.  Roy  H.  Lane 


D.  A.  SUTTON  STONE  CO. 

Stone  and  Masonry  Contractor 

PHONE  3-9535 
1725  Nottingham  Rd.  Raleigh,  N.  C. 

BASS  GMC  SALES  &  SERVICE 

GMC  TRUCKS 
Telephone  3-3622 
1 002  S.  Saunders  St.  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


53 


CREAMED  PEAS  IN  ONION  CUPS 

1.  Cook  for  30  minutes:  6  medium  onions,  Yi  tsp.  salt,  4  cups  boiling  water. 

2.  Drain.  Scoop  out  centers  to  form  cups. 

3.  Melt  in  double  boiler:  1  tablespoon  butter 

4.  Blend  in:  1  tbsp.  flour,  Yi  tsp.  salt,  pepper. 

5.  Stir  in  slowly:  Yi  cup  milk,  Yi  cup  liquid  off  peas. 
Cook  for  10  minutes  stirring  frequently. 

6.  Add:  2  cups  peas  (drained) 

7.  Put  in  onion  cups 

8.  Place  in  baking  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  350°  F  for  20  minutes,  or 
until  onions  have  browned  lightly. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

PEAS  AND  MUSHROOMS  ROYAL 

4  slices  bacon,  chopped  1  tablesp.  flour 

2  tablesp.  finely  chopped  onion  Yi  teasp.  salt  and  pepper 

1  Yi  cups  broiled  mushrooms,  1  cup  whole  milk 

sliced  2  cups  garden  peas 

Fry  bacon,  remove,  add  onions  and  mushrooms.  Cook  until  onion  is  golden.  Stir 
in  flour  and  seasoning.  Gradually  add  milk.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Add  peas  and  chopped  bacon.  Serve  hot  in  patty  shell  or  toast 
cups. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

TOMATO  PUDDING 

1  No.  2  can  tomatoes  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  cups  white  bread  crumbs 

1  teasp.  salt  Yi  cup  melted  butter 

Add  brown  sugar  and  salt  to  tomatoes  and  stir  well.  Add  boiling  water  and  let 
cook,  about  5  min.  Cut  bread  into  small  cubes  and  put  in  a  medium  size  casse- 
role. Pour  melted  butter  over  cubes,  stir,  then  add  boiling  tomato  mixture  and 
stir  again.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  about  50  min. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  George 

BAKED  SQUASH 

2  lbs.  squash  2  eggs  (beaten) 
1  tablesp.  flour  milk 

pinch  sugar  2  chopped  onions 

Cook  squash  and  onions  together  until  tender.  Mash  and  add  flour,  sugar,  salt, 
pepper  and  beaten  eggs.  Cover  with  enough  milk  to  moisten  well.  Sprinkle 
cracker  crumbs  on  top  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  until  set. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Trull 

SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  MARSHMALLOWS 

4  medium  size  potatoes  1  cup  sugar 

butter  size  of  egg  1  teasp.  baking  powder 

Vi  cups  sweet  milk  cinnamon 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes.  Mix  other  ingredients.  Put  in  baking  dish  in  oven. 
When  nearly  done  place  marshmallows  on  top  and  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

Mrs.  Fred  W.  Habcl 


54 


Cameron  Village 
Spo  rtswea  r  Mate  r  n  i  ty 

Lingelie 


Raleigh,  N.C. 
1 6  W.  Hargett  St.  —  Phone  2-2905 
Cameron  Vi I lage  —  Phone  3-385 1 


Mam'  Selle  Millinery  Salon 

Personalized  Service 

Mrs.  Sally  T.  Holding,  Owner 
Cameron  Village  Phone  3-3132 


Interiors  by  Van 
J.  VAN  LANDINGHAM  -  RITCHIE  LEWIS 
DECORATORS 
(at  five  points) 
2002  Fairview   Road  Tel.  7164 


FIRE  CHIEF 

AND 

SKY  CHIEF 
GASOLINE 


nu  mm  dealers 


C.  B.  "Bill"  HAYNES 
1641  Glenwood  Ave.  Phone  3-1300 

JOHNSON  AND  MULLEN 
520  St.  Mary's  St.  Phone  3-5177 

HUGH  CORZINE 
Cor.  Morgan  &  West  Sts.  Phone  3-28 1  1 

R.  C.  HAWKINS 
Whitaker  Mill  &  Wake  Forest  Rds.    Phone  9373 

NEIL  ST.  LAWRENCE 
Cor.  Hillsboro  St.  &  Dixie  Trail       Phone  2-2157 

T.  A.  MEDLIN 
Cor.  Edenton  &  Person  Sts.  Phone  3-491 3 

W.  M.  "Barney"  JOYNER 
Cor.  McDowell  &  Carbarrus  Sts.      Phone  3-6219 


J.  C.  HOLLAND 
60 1  Fayettevi  I  le  St.  Phone  3-2047 


RICE,  SPAGHETTI, 
MACARONI 
AND  NOODLES 


MUSHROOM  AND  CHINESE  NOODLE  DINNER 

^3  cup  milk  %  cup  small  peas 

1  can  mushroom  soup  4  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced 

1  can  mushrooms  (optional)  |/2  lb.  snappy  cheese  (cut 

^  cup  finely  chopped  pimentos  in  cubes) 

Heat  but  do  not  boil.  Acid  eggs  and  cheese  last.  Do  not  let  cheese  melt 

pletely.  Serve  over  crisp  oven  hot  Chinese  Noodles. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Woodcock 


SPANISH  RICE 


cup  cheese,  cut  into  s 
pieces 
2  tablesp.  butter 
2  teasp.  salt 
dash  of  cayenne 


73  cup  raw  rice 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes 
1  cup  hot  water 

3  tablesp.  chopped  onion 
1  tablesp.  chopped  green  pepper 

1  ingredients  in  an  oiled  baking  dish.  Bake  slowly  (250-350°  F.)  uncovered 
1  hour  or  until  rice  is  soft.  Stir  occassionally  as  needed.  Chopped  celery 


Mix  a 
about 

may  be  added  if  desired.  6  servings. 


mall 


Mrs.  J.  S.  D.  Nels 


PIMENTO  RICE 

Take  a  fork  and  mix  lightly  1  can  drained  pimento,  chopped  with  5  cups  hot, 
cooked  rice.  Arrange  on  a  platter  and  served  covered  with  chicken  and  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

FLUFFY  RICE 

1  cup  rice  1  Yi  teasp.  salt 

cups  boiling  water 

Do  not  wash  rice.  Toast  rice  in  shallow  pan  in  oven  375  degrees  until  slightly 
brown.  Place  in  casserole,  add  salt  and  water.  Cover.  Bake  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes.  Do  not  peek.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

RICE  CASSEROLE 

Cook  unwashed  rice,  put  in  casserole,  add  tomatoes,  from  which  some  of  the 
juice  has  been  drained.  Add  canned  okra,  chopped  onion  and 
crisp  bacon.  Put  in  oven  and  heat  until  seasonings  are  cooked, 

Mrs.  John  O.  Evan 

58 


several  pieces  of 


ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 

1  tablesp,  shortening  4  small  cans  tomato  saiicc 

1  large  onion  1  cup  water 

1^4  lbs.  ground  bce£  black  pepper 

114  teasp.  salt  10  drops  Tabasco  sauce 

pod  green  pepper  1  tablesp.  Worcestershire 

teasp.  garlic  salt  1  tbsp.  sugar 

14  bottle  olives  (2  oz.  size) 
Brown  chopped  onion  in  shortening.  Add  salted  ground  beef  and  green  pepper. 
Brown  for  10  minutes  on  medium  heat.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  cook  for 
1  or  2  minutes  under  15  lbs.  pressure  in  your  pressure  cooker.  Remove  from  heat 
and  let  pressure  go  down  gradually.  One,  8  oz.  box  of  spaghetti  (long  and 
thin)  will  serve  about  6  people.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Abernethy 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 

1  lb.  ground  beef  1  can  tomatoes  water 

2  teasp.  oil  (olive  or  Wesson)  1  can  tomato  paste 
several  buds  garlic  1  teasp.  allspice  (heaping) 
2  onions                                               '/2  green  pepper  chopped 
1  can  tomatoes 

Heat  oil  in  frying  pan,  brown  onions.  Add  meat  and  cook  thoroughlv.  hi  a 
sauce  pan,  put  tomatoes,  water,  tomato  paste,  chopped  garlic,  all  spice,  and 
green  pepper.  Let  simmer  l'/4  hours.  Add  to  meat  and  simmer  2  hours.  Sei-ves 
four  over  cooked  spaghetti. 

Mrs.  John  R.  Bourne 

MACARONI -CHEESE 

1      cups  elbow  macaroni  1  Yi  tablesp.  pimento  (optional) 

cup  butter  (oleo)  1  teasp.  salt 

Yi  pound  American  cheese  Y?,  teasp.  pepper 

(cubed)  Yi  teasp.  paprika 

1  Yi  tablesp.  onion  (chopped  2  eggs — well  beaten  mixed  with 

fine)  2  cups  milk  (gradually) 

1  Yi  tablesp.  parsley 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  15  minutes.  Drain  and  pour  cold  water 
thru  it.  Put  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  add  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  well. 
Bake  uncovered  at  350  degrees  for  50  minutes. 

Mrs.  Thomas  B.  Wilson 


CAI^tTtRIA 


59 


MACARONI  SOUFFLE 

Cook:  11/2  cups  creamettes —  salt 
Add  and  mix: 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  1  cup  grated  sharp  cheese 

2  cups  cream  or  condensed  milk  5^  cup  pimento  (cut  up) 

salt  1  onion,  grated 

cup  melted  butter  or  margarine  6  egg  yolks 

Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites  last.  Bake  in  well  greased  mold  placed  in  pan  of  hot 
water  in  moderate  oven  for  60  minutes.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

BAKED  CHEESE  DISH 

4  slices  bread  ^  teasp.  paprika 

2  tablesp.  butter  1      cups  milk 
1  teasp.  prepared  mustard                      Yi  lb.  cheese 

3  eggs  4  slices  bacon 

1  teasp.  salt 

Mix  the  mustard  and  butter  and  spread  on  the  bread.  Cut  the  bread  in  pieces  to 
fit  a  greased  baking  dish.  Grate  cheese  and  sprinkle  over  bread.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  add  salt,  paprika  and  milk  and  pour  this  mixture  over  the  bread.  Cut  the 
bacon  in  2"  pieces  and  lay  on  top.  Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven  350°, 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

Add:  3  tablespoons  minute  Tapioca  to  1  cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  scald  for  5 
minutes.  Add  1  cup  grated  cheese,  stir  until  melted.  Let  cool  slightly.  Add  3 
egg  yolks,  well  beaten.  Add  3  egg  whites,  well  beaten.  Bake  in  well  greased 
dish  in  moderate  oven  for  50  minutes,  Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

CHEESE  PUFF 

8  slices  bread  ^  teasp.  salt 

6  oz.  cheese  teasp.  pepper 

2  cups  milk  Yi  teasp.  paprika 

3  eggs 

Trim  crusts  from  bread  and  slice  in  half  diagonally.  Arrange  in  shallow  ungreased 
casserole  in  the  form  of  a  pin  wheel.  Cover  bread  with  cheese  sliced  about  ^ 
in.  thick.  Top  with  remaining  bread,  like  first  layer.  Beat  eggs  slightly  with 
rotary  beater,  add  pepper,  salt,  paprika,  and  milk — beat  well.  Pour  over  bread 
and  cheese.  Let  stand  2  hrs.  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hr.  or  until  puffed  and  golden 
brown.  Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  John  A  Park 


HALIFAX  STREET  GROCERY 

601  Halifax  Street 
CHOICE  MEATS  —  QUALITY  GROCERIES 

Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables 
Raleigh,  N.  C. 


60 


When  you  need  Tire  or 
Battery  Service 

Please  Call 

TIRE  DISTRIBUTORS,  Inc. 

3811  Hillsboro  St.  -  Raleigh,  N.  C. 
PHONE  7545 

Hood  Tires  -  Goodrich  Batteries 
Hawkinson  Tire  Treading 


SALADS 


ALMOND  -  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Drain  3  large  cans  of  crushed  pineapple  in  a  colander  for  two  hours.  At  the  end 
of  this  time,  blend  3  packages  of  cream  cheese  with  one-half  cup  of  the  juice 
drained  from  the  pineapple.  Heat  the  remaining  juice  to  boiling  and  mix  with 
3  packages  of  lime  jello.  Add  this  to  the  cream  cheese  mixture.  Let  cool  but 
not  set.  Add  the  drained  pineapple,  3  cups  of  coarsely  chopped,  blanched  al- 
monds, and  4  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice.  Mix  well,  and  pour  into  two  large  jello 
molds.  Serves  30. 

Mrs.  W.  Kerr  Scott 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

can  crushed  pineapple  ^/^  cup  chopped  pecans 


1  small 
(drain) 

1  small  bottle  maraschino  cher- 
ries (cut  up) 
10  marshmallows  (cut  up) 
Fokl  all  together.  Fill  8  or  10  individual  molds  and  chill  or  freeze.  Serve  on  lettuce 
with  mayonnaise  which  has  been  thinned  down  with  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 


^2  pirit  whipped  cream,  beaten 
stiff 

cup  mayonnaise 


LIME  JELLO  SALAD 

1  pkg.  cream  cheese  2  tablesp.  sugar 

1  pkg.  lime  jello  cup  toasted  nuts 

1  small  can  pineapple  juice  1  small  can  pineapple 

Cream  cheese  and  jello;  add  hot  juice  with  sugar.  Cool;  when  slightly  thick  add 
nuts  and  pineapple.  Neta  Brogdon 

JELLO  SALAD 

1  pkg.  lemon  jello  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  %  cups  liquid  (including  1  cup  celery  chopped 

strained  pineapple  juice)  cup  nuts  chopped 

2  or  3  grated  carrots  2  tablesp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  jello  with  hot  liquid  and  chill  until  set.  Add  all  ingredients  and  chill  until 
firm. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Gaskill 


62 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  (raw) 

1  lb.  cranberries,  washed  and  2  oranges,  washed,  seeded  and 

ground  ground 

2  cups  sugar 

Let  set  several  hours  or  over  night — 

1  box  Knox  gelatine  (4  envelopes) ,  mix  with  1  cup  cold  water. 
2  cups  boiling  water  Add  2  cups  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  diced  celery  1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple 
Then  add  the  cranberry-orange  mixture  and  let  set  over  night.  Cut  in  squares 
and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  B.  F.  Russell 

HEALTH  SALAD 

2  tablesp.  gelatine  (unflavored)  1  medium  onion 

^  cup  cold  water  J4  g^^een  pepper 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  mayonnaise 

2  tablespoon  lemon  juice  3  cups  chopped  raw  vegetables 

cup  sugar  (cabbage,  carrots,  celery) 

1  teasp.  salt  %  cup  nuts 

cup  vinegar 

Mix  together  and  pour  into  individual  molds  or  one  big  mold.  Serves  about  12. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Hinton 

CONGEALED  SHRIMP  SALAD 

1  small  can  shrimp  |/2  cup  water 

1  cup  finely  cut  celery  i/4  cup  mayonnaise 

1  pt.  can  tomato  juice  1  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tablesp.  gelatine  1  tablesp.  scraped  onion 

salt  to  taste 

Soak  gelatine  in  water.  Heat  tomato  juice  and  stir  in  gelatine.  Add  other  in- 
gredients and  pour  into  ring  mold.  Set  in  refrigerator  to  congeal  about  2  hours. 

Mrs.  Edward  Cannon 

CRYSTALLIZED  APPLES 

1  cup  water  8  medium  delicious  apples 

1^4  cups  sugar  1  orange  sliced  thin 

Use  a  pan  large  enough  to  fit  all  apples  on  the  bottom.  Peel  and  core  apples  and 
drop  into  rapidly  boiling  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water  and  orange  slices.  Let  boil 
for  30  minutes  with  syrup  coming  up  over  apples.  Watch  that  it  does  not  stick 
at  the  last.  Serve  cold  as  salad  dessert  or  with  meat  during  meal. 

Mrs.  Dave  Griffis 


Give  your  SALADS  New  Zest  and  Taste  Appeal 

Serve  Them  With 

MELVILLE  SOUR  CREAM 
and  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

For  Home  Delivery  Phone  2-0351 


63 


SALMON  SALAD 

1  lb.  can  salmon  eggs 

head  of  lettuce  mayonnaise 

celery  ketchup 
Drain  salmon  and  reserve  liquid.  Remove  skin  and  bones  from  salmon.  Break 
into  small  pieces.  Shred  lettuce  and  place  on  serving  plate.  Sprinkle  14  cup  chop- 
ped celery  over  lettuce.  Hard-cook  3  eggs  and  slice.  Place  egg  slices  over  celery. 
Combine  cup  mayonnaise,  1  tablespoon  ketchup  and  salmon  liquid.  Mix 
lightly  with  salmon.  Pile  over  egg  slices.  Garnish  with  gherkins,  dill  pickes,  and 
olives  as  desired.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchings 

AVOCADO  SALAD 

Cut  large  avocado  length  wise  in  halves  and  chill.  Scoop  out  slightly  large  hole 
left  by  stone.  Stuff  with  cheese  filling.  Put  halves  together,  wrap  in  wax  paper. 
Chill  30  minutes.  Cut  in  ring  and  serve  on  lettuce.  Filling — Cream  cheese,  nuts 
and  onion  juice.  Mrs.  T.  L,  Copley 

GUACAMOLA  SALAD 

(from  South  America) 
Mash  a  well-ripened  avocado  to  a  pulp  and  season  with: 

juice  of  y2  lemon  1  teaspoon  mustard 

2  heaping  tablesp.  mayonnaise  ^/^  teasp  garlic  salt 
few  drops  Worcestershire  sauce  Yi  teasp  sugar 
few  drops  tabasco 

Add  more  mayonnaise  if  not  fluffy  enough  and  increase  quantity  of  seasonings 
if  desired.  Mix  well  and  serve  on  lettuce  cup  or  place  on  a  slice  of  tomato  and 
then  on  lettuce.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  for  decoration. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Upham 

STUFFED  LETTUCE 

1  head  lettuce  1  tablesp.  chives 

Yz  lb.  blue  cheese  1  whole  pimento 

1  3  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  French  dressing 

2  tablesp.  milk 

Hollow  out  center  or  heart  of  lettuce  leaving  1 "  shell  of  green.  Fill  hollow  with 
this  filling.  Beat  cheese  and  milk  together  until  smooth.  Add  chopped  chives 
and  pimento.  (Grated  onion  may  be  added).  Chill  for  two  hours.  Cut  head  in 
crosswise  slices  about  %  inches  thick  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 


JOHNSON  PHARMACY 

Prescriptions  a  Specialty 

Prompt  Delivery 
Tel.  3-4821  2519  Foirview  Rd. 


64 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  cups  ground  cranberries  2  pkgs.  lemon  gelatin 

(1  lb.)  cup  cold  water 

2  cups  sugar  3  cups  hot  water 

2  oranges  (juice)  1  cup  diced  celery 

1  orange  rind  grated  1  cup  broken  nut  meat 
Grind  berries  in  food  chopper  (fine).  Add  orange  juice,  rind  and  sugar.  Let 
stand.  Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water.  Dissolve  in  hot  water  and  let  stand  until 
partially  set.  Add  berries,  nuts  and  celery.  Pour  in  oiled  molds. 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Hall 

BUTTERFLY  SALAD 

Chill  a  pound  can  of  jellied  cranberry  sauce,  open  one  end,  then  punch  hole  in 
the  other  end,  slide  out.  Cut  into  slices  ^4  inch  thick,  then  again  in  half.  For 
each  serving  place  2  half  slices  of  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaf.  Top  with  2  cranberry 
slices,  butterfly  fashion,  a  spoonful  of  cottage  cheese  in  center.  Serve  with  favor- 
ite salad  dressing.  Mrs.  F.  P.  Barnes 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD 

2  grapefruit  large  halved  long  way,  scoop  out  pulp  and  juice 

2  pkgs.  lemon  jello  Stir  in  3^  cup  pulp  and  juice 

%  cup  boiling  water 
Congeal  in  grapefruit  halves.  Cut  in  quarters  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  following 
dressing: 

1  tablesp.  flour  juice  1  lemon 

1/6  cup  sugar  c"p  pineapple  juice 

1  egg  yolk  (well  beaten)  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 

thick 

While  hot  add  4  marshmalows.  When  cool  add  pint  whipped  cream  and  Yi 
cup  nuts.  Mrs.  Randal  Etheridge 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Soak  cauliflower  in  salt  water,  cut  flowerets  into  thin  slivers.  Add  generous 
amount  of  thinly  sliced  onion  rings,  and  stuffed  olives.  Marinate  with  sharp 
French  Dressing  and  serve  on  cold  lettuce.  Mrs.  John  O.  Evans 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

1  cup  shrimp  (cooked)  1  teasp.  grated  onion 

%  cup  celery  (diced)  1  envelope  Knox  gelatin 

1  can  pimento  (medium  size)  %  cup  mayonnaise 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  juice  of  1  lemon 

Soak  gelatin  in  two  tablespoons  cold  water.  Dissolve  over  boiling  water.  Add 
lemon  juice.  Salt  to  taste.  Pour  this  over  other  ingredients.  Let  stand  until  cold 
and  firm.  Preferably  over  nite.  Mrs.  F.  B.  Hall 

CHERRY  AND  ORANGE  SALAD 

Soak  1  Yi  envelopes  Knox  plain  gelatin  in  1  cup  fresh  or  frozen  orange  juice.  Boil 
juice  from  1  can  of  black  cherries  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  gelatin  and  orange 
juice  and  cherries  cut  in  half.  When  partly  congealed  add  %  cup  blanched 
almonds  cut  into  about  eighths.  Put  in  individual  molds. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Park 

65 


CHOPPED  LETTUCE  SALAD 

Mix: 

2  tablesp.  vinegar  ^  teasp.  of  savory 

1  tablesp.  capers  and  a  little  of  a  sprinkling  of  garlic  salt 
the  juice 

Add  To:  6  tablesp.  of  olive  oil,  2  small  packages  of  blue  cheese — chilled  and 
crumbled. 

Toss  With:  %  head  of  chopped  lettuce 

Mrs.  Geo.  D.  Richardson 

CELERY  CABBAGE  SLAW 

1  celery  cabbage.  Shred  and  put  in  ice  water  to  crisp.  Drain  and  dry  cabbage 

thoroughly.  Add  other  vegetables. 

cup  chopped  celery  ^4  ^^P  chopped  green  pepper 

cup  chopped  pimento  1  teasp.  chopped  onion 

Mix  boiled  salad  dressing  with  above  to  desired  consistency. 

Mrs.  D.  M.  Chesson 

WILTED  LETTUCE 

2  slices  bacon.  Cut  up  and  fry.  1  egg  well  beaten 
Add  to  bacon  and  cook:                     2  tablesp.  sugar 
Yi  cup  vinegar  Yi  teasp.  salt 

Yz  cup  water  onion  minced 

I  head  of  lettuce,  broken  up.  Pour  mixture  over  lettuce. 

FROZEN  GRAPE  SALAD 

A  luscious  treat  you  can  make  the  day  before. 

2  3-oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese  apple  drained 

2  tablesp.  mayonnaise  1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

2  tablesp.  pineapple  syrup  2  cups  Tokay  grapes,  haved 
24  marshmallows,  quartered  and  seeded 

1  No.  2  can  {2Yi  cups)  pine- 
Soften  the  cream  cheese;  blend  with  mayonnaise.  Beat  in  the  pineapple  syrup. 
Add  marshmallows  and  drained  pineapple  bits.  Fold  in  whipped  cream  and 
halved  grapes.  Pour  into  a  1-qt.  refrigerator  tray.  Freeze  until  firm.  Cut  in 
squares.  Makes  8  to  12  servings.  Mrs.  Ralph  E.  Woodcock 

FROZEN  SALAD 

1  10^^  P^g-  marshmallows  1  pt.  cream 

1  large  can  pineapple  squeezed  1  cup  chopped  almonds 

dry  3  tablesp.  flour 

1  bottle  cherries  3  tablesp.  sugar 

3  eggs  3  tablesp.  vinegar 

Make  sauce  of  sugar,  flour  and  vinegar.  Beat  eggs  until  frothy,  and  make  as 
for  boiled  custard,  using  pineapple  juice.  (I  use  cherry  juice  also.)  Cook  until 
thick  and  smooth.  Cool  and  stir  in  chopped  marshmallows,  pineapple  and  cut 
cherries — drained,  add  chopped  almonds.  It  is  better  to  prepare  this  part  and  let 
stand  over  night  in  cool  place.  When  ready  to  freeze  add  1  pint  whipped  cream 
sweetened  to  taste,  also  pinch  of  salt.  Line  freezing  tray  with  oiled  paper,  the 
salad  will  slip  out  of  tray  in  a  loaf  and  slice  easily  when  ready  to  serve.  Serve 
with  cheese  crackers.  Mrs.  Ralph  Stephens 


66 


PINEAPPLE  CARROT  SALAD 

1  pkg.  lemon  gelatine  1  cup  finely  grated  carrot 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Dissolve  gelatine  as  directed  adding  pineapple  and  carrots  when  cool.  Different 
flavors  of  gelatine  can  be  used  according  to  taste  or  color  scheme. 

Mrs.  B.  C.  Reavis 

CRANBERRY  SALAD  (Frozen) 

2  cans  sauce  (no  whole  berries)  small  bottles  of  cherries  (red 
6  tablesp.  lemon  juice — put  in                and  green) 

tray  and  let  freeze  */2   cup  mayonnaise — nuts  as 

lA  pint  cream  whipped  desired 
very  scant       cup  sugar  and  2 
Mix  together  and  put  on  top  of  layer  above  and  let  freeze. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Veazcy 

CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  cups  of  raw  cranberries  1  pkg.  lemon  jcllo 

Yi  large  orange  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar 

Grind  cranberries  and  orange  in  food  chopper.  Add  sugar  and  let  stand  1  hour. 
Dissolve  jello  in  1  cup  boiling  water  and  add  to  cranberry  mixture.  Let  congeal. 
Very  good  with  meats. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 

PINEAPPLE,  DATE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

lYi  tablesp.  gelatine  1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

^4  cup  cold  water  (drained  from  juice) 

2  tablesp.  lemon  juice  2  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

1  cup  chopped  dates  Yi  cup  mayonnaise 

1/2  cup  evaporated  milk  |/2  cup  cream,  whipped 

watercress  fresh  fruit  sections 

Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Heat  pineapple  juice  to  boiling.  Pour  over  gelatine. 
Add  fruit  juice.  When  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  beat  in  rest  ingredients.  Fold 
in  cream  last.  Let  stand  hour  before  placing  in  mold  to  keep  dates  from  going 
to  bottom.  Place  in  refrigerator  over  night.  Unmold  on  watercress.  Fill  center 
with  sections  of  grapefruit  and  orange.  A  ring  mold  is  recommended  for  this 
salad,  but  any  large  salad  mold  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Lupton 

TOMATO  ASPIC 

2  can  tomatoes  1  tablesp.  salt 
handful  celery  tops                               20  whole  cloves 

5  medium  onions,  sliced  2  tablesp.  gelatine 

2  teasp.  dry  mustard  /4  '^"P  ^^^^  water 

1  Yi  tablesp.  sugar 

Mix  tomatoes  with  celery,  onions,  mustard,  sugar,  and  seasonings.  Let  mixture 
come  to  a  boil,  and  simmer  15  minutes.  Strain  into  bowl,  mashing  all  juice  out. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water,  and  add  to  hot  juice.  Pour  into  molds. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 


67 


TOMATO  ASPIC 

1  tablcsp.  gelatine  1  No.  2  can  tomatoes  or 

/4  cup  cold  water  1  can  of  cream  of  tomato  soup 

1  stalk  celery  1  tablesp.  of 


sugar 


2  tablesp.  of  vinegar  %  teasp.  salt 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  boil  tomatoes  and  celery  together  5  minutes  and 
strain.  There  should  be  IX  cups  of  juice.  Pour  hot  juice  over  gelatine.  Stir  until 
dissolved,  add  vinegar,  sugar  and  salt,  pour  into  individual  molds  or  a  muffin 
tin.  Chill  in  refrigerator,  remove  from  molds  by  lossening  edges  with  knife 
dipped  in  hot  water.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise.  Serves  8. 

Mrs.  Olga  Charlton 

TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD 

Yi  cup  hot  water  3  carrots  (chopped  fine  or 

1  envelope  gelatine  (dissolved  grated) 

in  the  lA  cup  of  water)  4  stalks  celery  (chopped  fine) 

1  can  tomato  soup  salt  and  pepper 

1  small  bottle  stuffed  olives  4  tablesj 

(sliced)  2  tablcsp. 

Put  in  mold  and  place  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

24  HOUR  SALAD 

4  envelopes  unflavorcd  gelatine  4^/^  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  cold  water  4  cups  shredded  cabbage 

Yz  cup  vinegar  3  cups  diced  canned  pineapple 

3  teasp.  salt  Yi  cup  slivered  green  pepper 

4  tablesp.  lemon  juice  Yi  cup  slivered  pimento 
Yz  cup  sugar 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water;  add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  salt  and  boiling 
water;  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved;  chill  until  sirupy.  Combine  cabbage,  pine- 
apple, green  pepper  and  pimento;  add  to  gelatine  mixture;  mix.  Pour  into  2 
2-quart  ring  molds  which  have  been  rinsed  with  cold  water,  chill  until  firm. 
Serves  25.  Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  pkgs.  raspberry  jello  1  cup  cold  water — scant  pinch 

1  pt.  boiling  water  salt 

1  can  cranberry  sauce  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  tablesp.  sugar 

Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water.  Add  cranberry  sauce  that  has  been  chopped  with 
a  spoon,  add  sugar,  salt  and  cold  water.  When  mixture  begins  to  congeal  add 
nuts  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

GRAPEFRUIT -PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

2  boxes  lime  jello  1  large  can  pineapple 

1  large  can  grapefruit  ^  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Drain  all  juice  and  use  liquid  for  jello.  Mix  according  to  directions  on  the  jello 
box.  Mrs.  T.  L.  Coplev 

WALDORF  SALAD 

Cut  apples  in  half  inch,  dice,  add  equal  amont  celery.  Add  Yz  cup  of  nut  meats 
and  Yi  cup  of  raisins.  Mix  with  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Olga  Charlton 

68 


TOSSED  SALAD 

y2  lb.  fresh  spinach  (cleaned,  cup  or  more  diced  celery 

chopped  and  chilled)  2  sliced  onions 

2  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

lA  head  shredded  cabbage 
Green  pepper,  carrots,  and  any  other  raw  vegetable  desired,  can  be  added.  Toss 
together  and  serve  with  French  or  your  favorite  dressing. 

Mrs.  Earl  Umstead 

CRANBERRY  SALAD 

1  pkg.  cherry  jello  1  cup  ground  cranberries 

1  cup  hot  water  1  orange  (ground) 

]A   cup  pineapple  juice  cup  diced  celery 

lA  cup  sugar  1  can  crushed  pineapple 

Yg  teasp.  salt 

Pour  in  molds  and  chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing.  * 

Mrs.  Kathleen  Whcatlcy 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple  2  lemons,  juice 

1  cup  grated  American  cheese  Yi  cup  sugar 

Yz  pint  whipped  cream  3  envelopes  gelatin 

Heat  pineapple,  sugar  and  lemon  juice;  stir  in  gelatine  while  hot.  When  cool  add 
cheese  and  whipped  cream.  Place  in  molds  and  chill  in  refrigerator.  Serve  with 
dressing.  Dressing — chip  a  little  celery,  bell  pepper  and  grated  onion  into  a 
dish  of  home-made  mayonnaise  and  stir  thoroughlv.         Mrs.  J.  W.  Powers 

LUNCHEON  SALAD 

1  can  condensed  tomato  soup  1  cup  chopped  celery 

1  Yi  tablesp.  gelatine  2  tablesp.  chopped  green  pepper 
Yz  cup  cold  water  1  teasp.  minced  onion 

2  3  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  Yi  cup  nut  meats 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

Heat  soup  and  dissolve  into  it  gelatine  softened  in  cold  water.  Cool.  Combine 
cream  cheese  and  mayonnaise.  Add  remaining  ingredients  to  gelatine  mixture. 

Mrs.  Harold  Eckert 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

1  pkg.  lime  jello  1  cup  mayonnaise  or 

cup  hot  water  Yi  cup  whipping  cream  and 

cup  lemon  juice  Yz  cup  mayonnaise 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  cup  cucumber  (chopped  fine) 

1  cup  whipping  cream  or 
Dissolve  jello  in  hot  water,  add  lemon  and  onion  juice.  Chill  until  partially  set. 
Fold  in  whipped  cream  and  cucumber.  Pour  into  6  individual  oiled  molds  or  one 
medium  size  mold.  Mrs.  R.  E.  Woodcock 


LAUNDERMATIC 

Cameron  Village  Phone  4-2652 


69 


BING  CHERRY  SALAD 

1  can  Bing  cherries  can  pineapple,  cut  small 

(No.  2/2)  pitted 

Drain.  Save  juice.  Ada  enough  water  to  juice  to  make  3  cups  of  liquid.  Fill 
cherries  with  cream  cheese  and  whole  pecans.  Dissolve  1^  packages  cherry 
gelatine  in  heated  fruit  juice,  pour  in  mold  with  fruit.  Chill. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD 

1  3-oz.  pkg.  lime  gelatine  1  cup  heavy  sour  cream, 

%  cup  hot  water  whipped,  or  1  cup 

cup  lemon  juice  mayonnaise 
1  tsp.  onion  juice  1  cup  chopped  cucumber 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water.  Add  lemon  and  onion  juice.  Chill  until  par- 
tially set.  Fold  in  cream  and  cucumbers.  Chill  until  firm.  Unmold  on  lettuce. 
Garnish  with  tomato  wedges.  Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 


Compliments 
of 

BRYAN 
ROCK  &  SAND  CO. 


70 


SAUCES 
SALAD  DRESSINGS 


MOCK  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

Mash  1  package  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  until  smooth.  Add  juice  o£  one 
small  lemon  mixed  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg.  Stir  until  smooth  and 
creamy.  Serve  over  vegetables  such  as  broccoli. 

Mrs.  Richard  Myers,  Winston-Salem 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

cup  butter  (melted)  and  blend 

2  egg  yolks  cup  boiling  water — 

teasp.  salt,  add  the  above  add  slowly 

Stir  and  cook  until  thick  in  top  of  double  boiler. 

Mrs.  Herbert  Mathews 


OLIVE  SAUCE 

2  tablesp.  butter  1  cup  beef  stock 

slice  onion  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  tablesp.  flour  12  sliced  green  or  ripe  olives 

Heat  butter  until  browned,  add  and  saute  onions.  Stir  in  flour  until  well  blended. 
Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  deep  brown.  Remove  from  heat, 
gradually  stir  in  beef  stock.  Cook  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly  until 
thickened.  Stir  in  salt  and  pepper  and  olives.  Good  with  steak,  salmon  loaf  or 
cheese  souffle. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 


Thin— 


Medium- 


WHITE  SAUCE 


Cook 


1  tablesp.  butter 

1  tablesp.  flour 

2  tablesp.  butter 
2  tablesp.  flour 


SYRUPS 

Thin — 1  part  sugar,  2  parts  water 
Medium — 1  part  sugar,  1  part  water 
Heavy — 2  parts  sugar,  1  part  water 
until  sugar  is  dissolved. 


71 


4  teasp.  salt 
1  cup  milk 


Yi  teasp.  salt 
1  cup  milk 

Mrs.  Ralph  Stephens 


Mrs.  Ralph  Stephens 


SPANISH  OMELET  SAUCE 

Omelet  as  per  omelet  recipe. 

SAUCE 

Cook  two  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one  onion  until  yellow.  Add  1%  cups 
tomatoes,  cook  until  moisture  is  nearly  evaporated.  Add  one  tablespoon  sliced 
mushrooms  (1  can),  one  tablespoon  capers,  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains 
cayenne.  This  is  improved  by  a  small  green  pepper,  finely  chopped. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 

LEMON  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS 

1  cup  boiling  water  Yi  cup  sugar 

1  tbsp.  flour  2  tbsp.  butter 

2  tbsp.  lemon  juice  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  together  dry.  Pour  over  the  boiling  water,  bring  to  boil 
and  cook  one  minute.  Add  other  ingredients  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Philpot 

CREAMY  DESSERT  SAUCE 

cup  butter  or  margarine  cup  light  cream 

cup  sugar  Dash  of  salt 

Melt  butter  in  1 -quart  saucepan  on  right  rear  unit  on  second.  Add  sugar,  cream 
and  salt  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Switch  to  Lo;  cook  10  minutes.  Serve  hot 
Makes  %  cup. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Fordyce 


''The  Capital's  Store  for  Men" 
311  Fayetteville  St.,  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


72 


SALAD 
DRESSINGS 


COOKED  DRESSING 

J4  cup  hot  water  1  egg  lightly  beaten 

J4  cup  vinegar 

Sift  together  the  following  and  add  to  beaten  egg: 

1  level  teasp.  mustard  2  level  tablcsp.  sugar 
^/^  teasp.  salt  (rounded)  2  scant  teasp.  flour 

Dash  cayenne  pepper.  Add  to  vinegar  and  water.  When  thick  add  1  teaspoon 
butter.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Brogdon 

COOKED  DRESSING 

^  cup  vinegar  1  tablesp.  butter 

%  cup  sweet  milk  1  teasp.  flour 

^  cup  sugar  ^4  teasp.  dry  mustard 

2  egg  yolks  1  teasp.  salt 

Put  vinegar  and  butter  on  stove  to  heat.  Mix  all  dry  ingredients  and  stir  in 
eggs.  Add  milk  to  that  and  then  pour  in  hot  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick. 

Mrs.  Dave  Griffis 

CHICKEN  SALAD  DRESSING 

7  eggs  (yolks)  Dash  of  red  pepper 

2  heaping  tablesp.  sugar  Stir  all  together. 
1  tablesp.  flour 

Heat: 

1  cup  vinegar  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over 

1  cup  water  egg  mixture. 

Put  back  on  stove  and  cook  slowly  until  it  thickens.  Stirring  all  the  time.  Then 
add  lump  of  butter  or  broth  from  chicken.  Add  salt  to  chicken  and  celery. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Moore 

CREAM  AND  NUT  DRESSING 

3  eggs  Box  marshmallows 

4  tablesp.  vinegar  pt.  double  cream 
3  tablesp.  sugar                                   1  cup  nuts 

Put  eggs,  vinegar  and  sugar  in  top  of  double  boiler,  beat  with  rotary  egg  beater 
until  smooth.  Drop  in  marshmallows.  Cool — add  whipped  cream  and  nuts.  Store 
in  ice-box  and  serve  on  congealed  fruit  salad. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Davis 

73 


PECAN  DRESSING 

2  eggs  1  cup  pecan  meats 

4  tablesp.  vinegar  1  doz.  marshmallows 

3  tablesp.  sugar  1  cup  double  cream 

Beat  together  with  egg  beater  until  thick  (in  double  boiler) ,  add  marshmallows 
until  dissolved.  Set  aside  until  cool.  Whip  1  cup  double  cream,  fold  into  above 
mixture  and  add  pecans.  Store  in  jar  and  put  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Hooker 

SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  Campbell  tomato  soup  3  tablesp.  grated  onions 

cup  vinegar  1  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

cup  Wesson  oil  1  teasp.  mustard 

cup  sugar  1  teasp.  paprika 

Put  in  quart  jar,  shake  well  and  chill.  Can  be  stored  in  the  refrigerator  several 

weeks. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Copley 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

1  teasp.  mustard  2  teasp.  chili  sauce 

2  teasp.  salt  34  cup  vinegar 

2  teasp.  sugar  small  onion  grated 

114  teasp.  paprika  2  cups  salad  oil 

Beat  with  egg  beater.  Keep  in  jar  in  ice  box. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Grove r 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

1  cup  tomato  soup  juice  of  1  lemon 

1^/4  cups  oil  2  teasp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

%  cup  vinegar  salt  and  pepper 

1  teasp.  dry  mustard  1  whole  garlic  (or  two  halves) 

teasp.  paprika  /4  cup  sugar 

2  teasp.  onion  juice  2  cloves 
Mix  all  together  with  an  electric  beater. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

1  cup  salad  oil  Vi  teasp.  salt 
Yi  cup  vinegar  Y^  cup  catsup 

2  tablesp.  dry  mustard  2  tablesp.  grated  onion 

Y2  teasp.  paprika  clove  of  garlic  cut  in  half 

2  tablesp.  sugar 
Combine  and  shake  well. 

Mrs.  Harold  Eckert 

DRESSING  FOR  SLAW 

1  cup  vinegar  celery  seed 

butter,  size  walnut  1  egg 

4  tablesp.  sugar 

Beat  egg  well,  mix  ingredients  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  This  makes 
a  small  amount. 


74 


RUSSIAN  DRESSING 

4  tablesp.  mayonnaise  3  tablcsp.  chili  sauce 

2  hard  boiled  eggs 

Mix  mayonnaise  and  chili  sauce.  Mash  eggs  fine,  add  dash  of  onion  juice  and 
mix  all  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  Fred  Habel 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

U/2  cups  mayonnaise  1  hard  boiled  egg 

^  bottle  chili  sauce  1  pimento 

2  sweet  cucumber  pickles   (small)  grcen  pepper 

Have  mayonnaise  well  seasoned.  Stir  in  slowly  chili  sauce.  Chop  together  pickle, 
egg,  pimento  and  pepper  and  add  paprika  and  salt  to  taste  and  mix  well. 
Quantity  makes  about  1  pint.  If  kept  covered  in  refrigerator,  it  keeps  well. 

HOT  SAUCE  FOR  AVOCADO 

2  tablesp.  butter  2  tablesp.  sugar 

2  tablesp.  ketchup  2  tablesp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tablesp.  vinegar  salt  and  pepper 

Mix  in  double  boiler.  Serve  very  hot  in  pitcher.  Avocados,  cut  in  half,  leave 
skin  on,  serve  on  watercress.  Allow       to  a  serving. 

MAYONNAISE 
(Good  for  Potato  Salad) 

1  heaping  fbsp.  flour  2  eggs,  beaten 

4  tbsp.  sugar  1  cup  milk 

V3  tsp.  dry  mustard    (Coleman's)  %  cup  vinegar 

1  tsp.  salt  cup  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients  well.  Add  eggs  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  milk  and 
vinegar  and  water  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cook  until  bubbles  form.  Add  large 
piece  of  butter.  Stir  until  melted. 

Mrs.  James  Welday 

SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  Wesson  oil  %  cup  tomato  ketchup 

%  cup  vinegar  2  tbsp.  grated  onion 

cup  sugar  2  tsp.  salt 

Mix  in  order  given  and  beat  well.  Store  in  covered  jar  in  refrigerator.  Dressing 
will  keep  for  months. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Philpot 


J.  M.  Edwards  Shoe  Store 

12  E.  Martin  St.  Phone  2-3620 


75 


For  The  Finest  In  Permanent  Waving, 


Shaping  and  Hair  Styling,  Visit  .  .  . 

Hair  Styling 
Salon 

AIR  CONDITIONED 
Phones:  4-2543,  4-2544 

529  Hillsboro  Street  at  Glenwood 


DESSERTS 
Frozen  and  Frosted 


LIME  ICE 

1  cup  hot  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  pkg.  lime  jello  1  quart  milk 

juice  of  2  lemons 

This  will  curdle  when  mixed  but  if  stirred  several  times  while  freezing  it  will 
be  smooth. 

Mrs.  Leon  Russell 

LEMON  ICE  BOX  DESSERT 

1  tall  can  of  milk  Graham  Crackers 

1  cup  sugar  2  lemons 

1      cups  Vanilla  Wafers,  or  2  eggs 

Separate  eggs,  mix  yolks,  sugar  and  lemons,  cook  over  slow  fire  until  yellow  is 
cooked.  Add  beaten  egg  whites  and  milk.  Line  refrigerator  tray  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  pour  this  mixture  in  and  cover  top  with  crumbs.  Freeze.  (This  serves 
eight.)  For  best  results  in  whipping  canned  milk,  place  can  in  water  and  boil 
before  placing  in  ice  box  to  chill. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Davis 


LEMON  ICE  CREAM 

Beat  2  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored. 
Add  Y-,  cup  sugar  gradually.  Beat  until  thick  as  custard. 

Add 

Yi  cup  light  corn  syrup  1  cup  milk 

1  teasp.  grated  lemon  rind  1  cup  light  cream 
/4  cup  lemon  juice 

Freeze  until  edges  harden,  then  turn  into  chilled  bowl  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Freeze  until  hard. 

Mrs.  Wharton  Separk 

VANILLA  WAFER  ICE  BOX  CAKE 

2  cups  crushed  pineapple  cup  butter  (melted) 

Yi  cup  sugar  3  cups  vanilla  wafer  crumbs 

Yi  cup  chopped  pecans 
Mix  first  4  ingredients.  Line  bottom  of  glass  dish  with  layer  of  crumbs,  then  a 
layer  of  pineapple  mixture,  then  crumbs  and  pineapple  again,  finishing  with 
crumbs  on  top.  Chill  in  refrigerator.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  mara- 
chino  cherries.  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Corzine 


77 


COCOANUT  SURPRISES 

1  15  oz.  package  pressed  figs  1  cup  whipping  cream 

1  cup  water  ^/^  teasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  4  tablesp.  confectioners  sugar 

1  tablesp.  lemon  juice  1  can  Southern  Brand  Cocoanut 

4  doz.  sugar  cookies  (home  or  2  cups  fresh  grated  cocoa- 

made  or  F.F.V.  variety)  nut 
Grind  figs,  add  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes  or  until 
thick  enough  to  spread  as  filling.  Using  a  stack  of  four  cookies  for  each  serving, 
spread  fig  mixture  on  three  of  the  cookies,  stacking  with  1  plain  cookie  on  top. 
Repeat  process  until  all  cookies  are  used,  making  12  servings.  Chill  in  refrigerator. 
Whip  cream  stiffly,  add  vanilla  and  confections  sugar.  Cover  generously  tops  and 
sides  of  cookies  with  the  whipped  cream,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut  and  garnish 
with  a  red  cocktail  cherry,  having  a  stem.  Arrange  on  large  serving  platter,  or 
an  individual  plate. 

Mrs.  Howard  P.  Powell 

ANGEL  CHARLOTTE  ROUSSE 

1  large  10"  angel  food  cake  1  envelope  gelatine 

12  marshmallows  ^  cup  cold  water 

V/j  doz.  maraschino  cherries  }4  ^"P  n\i\k 

(well  drained)  %  cup  sugar 

1  doz.  stale  macaroons  1  pint  heavy  cream 

1  teasp.  vanilla  or  Yz  cup  cooking  sherry 

With  a  sharp  knife  remove  inside  of  cake,  leaving  a  case  with  wall  and 
bottom.  Cut  marshmallows  and  1  doz.  cherries  into  small  pieces,  crush  macaroons. 
Sprinkle  gelatine  on  cold  water.  Dissolve  with  hot  milk.  Add  sugar  and  stir  until 
dissolved.  When  it  begins  to  cool  fold  in  whipped  cream  and  other  ingredients. 
Fill  cake  shell,  decorate  with  remaining  cherries  and  chill. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Myrick 

ICE  BOX  DELIGHT 

J4  lb.  rolled  vanilla  wafers  Mix  together: 

Beat  together:  Yz  pt.  whipped  cream 

2  eggs  (unbeaten)  %  cup  chopped  walnuts 
1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  small  bottle  cherries 

y2  cup  soft  butter  lb.  rolled  vanilla  wafers 

Arrange  in  layers  in  the  order  listed  above  and  chill  24  hours.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  A.  H.  Veazey 

ANGELFOOD  CUSTARD  DESSERT 

6  egg  yolks  %.  cup  lemon  juice 

%  cup  sugar  Yi  teasp.  rind 

Make  custard  of  above,  cook  over  water  until  it  coats  spoon.  Add  to  hot  custard 
lYz  envelopes  gelatine  dissolved  in  ^  cup  water  and  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  6  egg 
whites,  add  gradually  %  cup  sugar  then  fold  hot  custard  mixture  into  whites. 
Break  Yi  o'^*  niorc  large  angelfood  cake  into  small  pieces.  Place  layer  of  broken 
pieces  in  large  mold,  pour  over  layer  of  custard,  then  add  another  layer  of  cake 
and  custard.  Place  in  refrigerator.  When  ready  to  serve  unmold  and  cover  with 
whipped  cream.  Will  serve  10  or  12. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Myrick 


78 


FRUIT  SHERBET 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple  3  lemons  (juice) 

3  pints  water  3  oranges  (juice) 

3  cups  sugar  3  mashed  bananas 

Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes,  add  crushed  pineapple  using  all  the  juice,  add 
other  fruits.  Freeze  in  refrigerator  tray,  stir  well  after  it  begins  to  freeze. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

1      cups  orange  juice  pinch  of  salt 

cups  sugar  2  cups  milk — add  slowly 

few  drops  lemon  juice  Yi  pt.  cream 

Freeze  in  ice  tray  or  in  freezer. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Grover 

FROZEN  AMBROSIA 

3  bananas,  mashed  3  cups  sugar 

juice  of  3  oranges,  3  lemons  3  cups  water 

Mix  all  together  and  put  in  freezing  tray.  When  it  looks  mushy  take  out  and 

beat.  Put  back  to  freeze. 

Mrs.  John  Prescott 

LEMON  SHERBET 

1  quart  milk  juice  of  2  lemons 

2  cups  sugar  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
Freeze.  This  makes  2  trays.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Watts 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM 

(Hand  Freezer) 
6  eggs  1  tablesp.  vanilla 

1  can  evaporated  milk  dash  of  salt 

1-^/4  cups  sugar  2  quarts  pasteurized  milk 

Beat  eggs  until  foamy.  Add  canned  milk  and  beat  again.  Add  sugar,  vanilla,  salt 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  ice  cream  freezer  container,  add  pasteurized  milk, 
stir  and  freeze.  Yields  3  quarts. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Keggereis 

COFFEE  MARSHMALLOW  ICE  CREAM 

20  marshmallows  Yi  cup  of  strong  coffee 

1  cup  of  chopped  nuts  1  cup  heavy  cream  or 

pinch  of  salt  pet  milk  chilled  and  whipped 

Melt  marshmallows  in  2  tablespoons  of  coffee  in  double  boiler  or  sauce  pan 
under  very  low  heat,  fold  over  until  marshmallows  are  half  melted,  remove  from 
heat  and  beat  until  fluffy,  blend  in  remainder  of  coffee  and  whipped  cream  and 
nut  meats.  Freeze  in  refrigerator.  Mrs.  Olga  Charlton 


RENN^S  TOYVILLE 

415  Daniels  St.  Phone  2-T690 


79 


LEMON  CUP 

1  cup  sugar  1  lemon  rind,  grated 

4  tablesp.  flour  3  egg  yolks 

teasp.  salt  1 1^  cups  milk 

2  tablesp.  melted  butter  3  egg  whites 

5  tablesp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  melted  butter;  stir  in  lemon  juice  and  rind,  add 
egg  yolks  and  milk.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Put  in  custard  cups  and  place  in  hot 
water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes.  Turn  out  up-side-down.  The 
custard  will  be  on  top  and  cake  mixture  on  bottom.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin 

HEAVENLY  DELIGHT 

1  lb.  marshmallows  2  teasp.  lemon  jello 

1  cup  milk  1  small  box  graham  crackers 

1  cup  cream 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple  (drained) 
Melt  marshmallows  in  milk  over  very  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
fire,  add  jello,  and  cool.  Whip  cream  and  add  to  mixture  with  pineapple.  Line 
bottom  of  pan  with  cracker  crumbs,  pour  mixture  in,  and  cover  top  with  crumbs. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Wester 


Hayes  Barton  Grocerteria 

2521  Fairview  Road  Phone  2-3917 


Close  the  Door  to  Competition — Write  it  in 
Norfhwestern  Mutual  Fire  Association 

DeVan  Barbour,  Jr.  Home  Office:  Seattle,  Washington 


Compliments  of 

Sam  Wayburn 

Nelly  Don  Dresses 


80 


PUDDINGS 


DATE  NUT  PUDDING 

2  eggs  beaten  1  cup  nuts  (broken  in  small 

1  cup  sugar  beaten  in  eggs  pieces) 

3  teasp.  baking  powder  1  cup  dates  chopped 

2  tablesp.  flour 

Mix  in  the  above  order.  Cook  in  a  round  casserole  dish,  greased  and  lined  with 
wax  paper.  Cook  in  a  325°  oven  for  45  minutes  or  until  pudding  sticks  done. 
Serve  in  Sherberts.  Break  the  pudding  in  small  bits  and  top  with  whipped  cream. 
Serves  6  to  8  people.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Carson 

BULLY  PUDDING 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

^  cup  butter  1  cup  dates  (cut  in  small 

1  tablesp.  flour  pieces) 

2  eggs  1  cup  nut  meats 

Melt  butter  and  mix  with  sugar.  Add  flour,  well  beaten  eggs,  milk,  dates  and 
nuts.  Serve  with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchings 

BREAD  PUDDING 

3  cups  bread,  cut  in  cubes  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  milk 

stick  butter 

Grease  pan  with  butter,  put  crumbs  in  pan.  Add  beaten  eggs,  sugar  and  milk. 
Do  not  stir,  just  press  down  a  little.  Sprinkle  top  with  cinnamon  and  bake  to  a 
light  brown.  Mrs.  A.  V.  Stephenson 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

3  cups  potatoes  (grate  or  %  cup  butter 

grind  in  food  chopper)  ^4  cup  hot  water 

1  cup  cocoanut  3  eggs 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teasp.  (each)  ginger,  mixed 

lj/2  cup  sugar  spices  and  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Beat  in  eggs,  add  all  ingredients  together  and  mix 

thoroughly.  Bake  in  hot  oven  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Dowd 


81 


BESS  TRUMAN'S  OZARK  PUDDING 

1  egg  Yi  cup  chopped  apples 

cup  sugar  ^/^  cup  chopped  nuts 


/4        .  _ 

3  heaping  tablcsp.  flour  1  teasp,  vanilla 

1/^  teasp.  baking  powder  1  cup  cream,  whipped 

%  teasp.  salt 

Beat  egg  well  and  add  sugar,  beating  until  light  and  creamy.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  and  add  to  egg  mixture;  blend  well.  Fold  in  apples  and  nuts; 
add  vanilla.  Pour  in  greased  paper-lined  dish;  bake  in  slow  oven  (325°)  for 
30  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin 

ORANGE  MERINGUE  CUSTARD 

1  can  Eagle  Brand  milk  3  oranges 

3  tablesp.  sugar  3  eggs 

Blend  milk  with  diced  pulp  and  juice  of  oranges.  Add  well  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover  top  with  meringue  made  from  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites  and  sugar.  Bake  20  minutes  or  until  meringue  is  brown,  in 
a  moderately  slow  oven.  Sei-ves  six.  Mrs.  D.  M.  Chesson 

GRATED  POTATO  PUDDING 

2  cups  sweet  milk  cup  flour 

4  cups  grated  sweet  potatoes  4  eggs 

2  teasp.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  1  cup  sugar 

3  teasp.  baking  powder  3  tablesp.  melted  butter 
1  teasp.  cinnamon                               or  margarine 

1  teasp.  nutmeg  %  cup  hot  water 

teasp.  cloves  Pinch  of  salt 

teasp.  allspice 

Mix  flour  and  sweet  potatoes  separately  and  then  mix  other  ingredients.  Add 
flour  mixture  and  bake  until  brown  (about  an  hour).  Temperature  300°. 

Mrs.  Robert  Ruark 

APPLE  CRISP 

6  or  7  apples  sliced  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  water  Yi  cup  flour 

1  teasp.  cinnamon  6  tablesp.  butter 

Peal  and  slice  apples.  Fill  casserole  with  apples,  water  and  cinnamon.  Blend  other 
ingredients  until  crumbly.  Spread  this  over  top  of  apples,  and  bake  uncovered 
for  one  hour,  at  350°.  Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 


WH  ITE'S  GROCERY 

Meats  and  Groceries 
703  W.  Peace  St.  —  Raleigh,  N.  C. 
E.  R.  White,  Prop.  Phone  3-5161 

Em   Dee  Millinery 

107  Fayetteville  Street 
Mrs.  J.  Bernard  Liles  Phone  4-2476 


82 


BREAD  PUDDING  AND  SAUCE 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

1  pt.  scalded  milk  ^4  tsp.  salt 

^4  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla  or  spice 

2  tbsp.  butter 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  hot  milk;  set  aside  until  cool;  add  sugar,  butter,  eggs 
slightly  beaten,  salt  and  flavoring.  Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 

SAUCE 

Yi  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  cream  tarter 

1  tbsp.  flour  Salt 

Add  hot  water  to  above  ingredients  till  it  thickens,  then  when  ready  to  serve 
add  %  teaspoon  baking  soda. 

Mrs.  O.  S.  Slaunwhite 

AN  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING 

2  cups  flour  1  lb.  raisins 

1  cup  suet  (chopped)  1  lb.  currants 

1  cup  dried  bread  crumbs  cup  citron  peel 

Yi  cup  hot  milk  1  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  molasses  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

%  cup  sugar  Yi  tsp.  cloves 

4  eggs  Ya  tsp.  nutmeg 

%  tsp.  salt  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

1  cup  jelly  or  jam  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Heat  milk  and  pour  over  bread  crumbs.  Separate  eggs,  adding  beaten  whites 
(stiff)  last.  Mix  together  all  ingredients  and  put  into  two  greased  molds.  Steam 
3  hours. 

Mrs.  Annie  Thompson 

DATE  LOAF  (Ice  Box) 

2  cups  pecans  1  lb.  graham  crackers 

1  lb.  marshmallow^s  1  small  can  pet  milk 

2  pkgs.  seedless  dates 

Cut  all  ingredients  fine.  Mix  well  with  both  hands.  Add  Pet  milk.  Use  rolling 
pin  on  graham  crackers.  Save  enough  crackers  to  roll  loaf  in  and  add  the  others 
to  the  mixture.  Shape  into  four  rolls  then  roll  in  the  crushed  crackers.  Wrap 
waxed  paper  and  keep  in  the  ice  box. 

Mrs.  W.  O.  Brooks,  Jr. 


m 


PENARROW  NURSERY 

Azaleas  and  Camellias 

L.  Dow  Pender,  Jr. 


83 


CAKES 


LENA'S  ORANGE  CUPCAKES 

^2  cup  shortening  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  teasp.  soda 

2  eggs  (beaten)  ^  teasp.  salt 

cup  buttermilk 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beat  after  each  addi- 
tion. Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  buttermilk.  Fill  greased  (small) 
cupcakes  pans  less  than  full  (about  one  teaspoon) .  Bake  at  375  degrees  about 
12  minutes.  Makes  about  60  cupcakes. 

SAUCE 

juice  of  2  oranges  1  cup  sugar 

grated  rind  of  1  orange 
Combine  and  heat  only  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Immediately  on  removing  from 
oven,  pour  one  tablespoon  of  sauce  on  each  cupcake.  Let  cool  in  pans. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Powledge 

RUSSIAN  PARTY  CAKES 

2  eggs  well  beaten  1  scant  teasp.  soda 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  beat  in  ^  teasp.  vanilla 
eggs  1  cup  nuts 

10  rounding  tablesp.  flour  tsp.  salt 

Bake  in  shallow  pan  350°  until  firm,  about  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Tvlann 

LAZY  DAISY  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  sifted  flour  '^2  cup  milk 

1  teasp.  baking  powder  1  tablesp.  butter 

^  teasp.  salt  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs — thick.  Add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  again.  Add  vanilla.  Sift  together 
flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Fold  this  into  first  mixture.  Add  butter  to  milk, 
heat  to  boiling  point  and  add  all  at  once  to  first  mixture.  Beat  vigorously.  Pour 
into  loaf  pan  with  only  the  bottom  greased.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  thirty 
minutes.  Remove  from  oven  and  while  still  hot,  spread  with  following  mixture 
and  broil  until  bubbly: 

3  tablesp.  melted  butter  2  tablesp.  cream  or 
5  tablesp.  brown  sugar  evaporated  milk 

Mrs.  John  Cameron 

84 


ORANGE  DATE  NUT  CAKE 

lA  cup  butter  1  teasp.  soda 

1  cup  sugar  tcasp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  pkg.  pitted  dates 
73  cup  milk  1  cup  nut  meats 

2  cups  flour  1  tablesp.  orange  peel 

Filling  :  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one  orange,  1  tasplespoon  grated  peel.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  mix  well,  then  add  milk  and  flour,  alternating  and  mixing 
well  after  each.  Use  a  little  flour  to  mix  with  dates,  then  add  to  other  ingredients. 
Add  nut  meats  and  orange  peel  last.  Bake  in  a  flat  pan  at  350°  for  30  minutes. 
Fix  filling  while  cake  is  baking  and  allow  to  stand  until  cake  is  done.  Pour  this 
mixture  over  the  cake  as  soon  as  taken  from  oven.  This  leaves  a  glazed  top.  Cut 
in  squares  \^'hen  cool  and  serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Keggereis 

HOT  MILK  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  stick  butter 

2  cups  flour  1  teasp.  vanilla 

4  eggs  1  teasp.  salt 

1  cup  milk  2  teasp.  baking  powder 
Bake  350°.  Mrs.  Ralph  Stephens 

APPLESAUCE  CAKE 

%  cup  Crisco  1  cup  black  walnuts,  chopped 

2  cups  brown  sugar  %.  lb.  crystallized  cherries 

2  cups  apple  sauce  /4       crystallized  pineapple 

4  cups  flour  Ys  lb.  crystallized  citron 

Yi  teasp.  salt  1  teasp.  cinnamon 

2  teasp.  soda  dissolved  1  teasp.  nutmeg 

in  ^  cup  boiling  water  1  teasp.  cloves 

1  pkg.  raisins 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar,  add  apple  sauce  and  soda  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
^  cup  boiling  water.  Take  a  small  amount  of  flour  and  mix  with  fruits  and  nuts 
which  have  been  chopped  together.  Add  remainder  of  flour  and  salt  to  the 
mixture  of  Crisco,  sugar  apple  sauce  and  soda.  Blend  thoroughly.  Add  the  fruits 
and  pour  in  greased  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  2  hours. 

Mrs.  A.  V.  Stephenson 

TOMATO  SURPRISE  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  1  egg,  beaten 

3  tbsp.  shortening  1  can  tomato  soup 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  soda  (stir  in  soup) 

1  cup  raisins  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

Yi  tsp.  cinnamon  V4  tsp.  clove 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  bake  50  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Annie  Thompson 


LIGHTFOOT'S  ANTIQUES 

''W e  Specialize  In  Frames,  Prints  and  Mirrors" 
2  Maiden  Lane  Tel.  No.  3-1167 


85 


ONE  EGG  CAKE 

ly^  cups  sifted  flour  1^  teasp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

cup  Crisco  1  teasp.  salt 

Beat  this  mixture  2  minutes.  Then  add  1  egg  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat 
another  2  minutes.  Bake  at  375°  for  30  to  35  minutes  in  pan  9"  x  9"  x  2",  For 
frosting  use  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  3  tablespoons  butter,  ^, .  pound 
of  powdered  sugar.  Combine  and  stir  into  smooth  icing  and  cover  cake  when 
cool. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Kershaw 

BLACK  BERRY  CAKE 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with      cup  butter 
Add 

1  cup  sour  milk  ^  teasp.  nutmeg 

%  teasp.  soda  1  teasp.  cinnamon 

3  egg  yolks  2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  blackberry  jam  or  jelly 

Bake  in  layers.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for  boiled  icing. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Smith 

ONE  HALF  POUND  CAKE 

y2  lb.  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  teasp.  vanilla 
5  eggs  teasp.  lemon 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  one  unbeaten  egg  at  a  time  to  butter  and  sugar 
mixture.  Then  add  flour  and  flavoring.  Bake  at  325°  until  done — about  1^4  hours. 


Mrs.  C.  E.  Aberncth 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1  cup  shortening  1  lb.  seedless  raisins 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

3  eggs  1  teasp.  nutmeg 

2  cups  of  stewed  and  sweetened  1  teasp.  cloves 
apple  sauce.  (Dried  apples)  1  teasp.  cinnamon 

1  teasp.  soda  pinch  of  salt 

1  teasp.  baking  powder  1  cup  preserves  or  marmalade 

3  cups  flour 

Bake  slowly  for  3  hours.  Mrs.  L.  D.  Moore 

GOLD  CAKE 

Beat  separately:  Add:  4  tablesp.  water 

4  eggs  1  teasp.  flavoring 

Mix  well:  Add:   1  flour  (cup)  sifted  4  times 

1  cup  sugar  1  teasp.  baking  po\^'cler 

Fold  in  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  350°  oven  for  45  minutes  in  angelfood  pan.  Cool 
upside  down  in  pan.  Remove  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  or  frost.  This  is 
a  cheap  Sponge  Cake. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 


86 


DESSERT  BISCUIT  TORTONI 

,        34  cup  milk  14  cup  chopped  almonds 

^  cup  sugar  2  cups  heavy  cream 

6  egg  yolks  1  tcasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  finely  crushed  macaroons  2  tbsp.  cooking  sherry 

Heat  milk  over  hot  (not  boiling  water)  until  film  forms  on  the  surface,  then 
add  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved.  In  a  separate  bowl  beat  egg  yolks  slightly  and 
stir  in  a  little  of  the  hot  milk  slowly.  Add  remaining  hot  milk,  transfer  to 
sauce  pan  and  continue  cooking,  still  over  hot  water,  for  5  minutes.  Stir  fre- 
quently. Cool,  mix  in  macaroons  and  half  the  almonds  which  have  been  lightly 
browned.  Whip  cream  stiff,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  sherry.  Mix  gently  into  egg 
yolk  mixture.  Pour  into  ice  box  tray  or  paper  cups,  sprinkle  with  remaining 
almonds.  Serve  cold  but  not  frozen.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

cups  butter  or  shortening  3  teasp.  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  cups  flour  (measured  after  1  teasp.  vanilla 
sifted)                                              5  egg  whites 

Cream  butter,  adding  sugar  and  cream  again.  Add  one  unbeaten  egg  white  at 
the  time  until  all  egg  whites  are  added.  Add  milk  and  flour  alternately.  Put 
vanilla  in  milk  before  mixing.  Use  favorite  Chocolate  Frosting. 

Mrs.  Bernard  Crocker,  Jr. 

LEMON  CAKE 

Beat  3  eggs,  add  2  cups  of  sugar  and  beat.  Cream  14  lb.  of  butter  and  add  to 

mixture.  Add  1  teaspoon  soda  to      cup  of  buttermilk  and  add  to  above  mix; 

ture.  Then  add  1  cup  buttermilk.  Add  between  2^2  to  3  cups  of  flour  and  a 

pinch  of  salt.  Bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  oven  350  degrees. 

LEMON  FILLING 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons  1  cup  sugar 

1  tbsp.  flour  /4  cup  water 

1  egg  1  tbsp.  butter 

Cook  until  thick  and  add  4  or  5  marshmallows. 

Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 

COCONUT  CAKE 

35/2  cups  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  1  cup  butter 

1  teasp.  soda  4  eggs 

1  teasp.  salt  1  cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  sugar  juice  of  ^/^  lemon 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beat  well  after  each  addi- 
tion. Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk  and  flavor- 
ing. Mix  well.  Bake  in  two  oblong  pans.  This  makes  a  large  cake.  \ 

ICING 

1  large  fresh  grated  coconut  ^/^  cup  water 

21/2  cups  sugar  3  tablesp.  white  corn  cyrup 

Cook  sugar,  water  and  syrup  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Have  beaten  stiff  2  egg 
whites,  pour  syrup  over  the  egg  whites  beating  constantly.  Add  juice  of  ^/^ 
lemon.  Spread  layers  with  icing  then  coconut.  Always  put  icing  on  the  bottom 
of  each  layer  that  goes  on  the  coconut  covered  layer. 

Mrs.  Marvin  Dunbar 


87 


CHIFFON  BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

2^  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  teasp.  vanilla 

1^/4  cups  sugar  i/4  cup  salad  oil  (not  olive  oil) 

3  teasp.  baking  powder  5  egg  yolks 

1  teasp.  salt  7  egg  whites 

teasp.  almond  extract  teasp.  cream  of  tartar 

%  cup  water 

You  need  a  10-inch  tube  pan,  4  inches  deep.  All  ingredients  and  utensils  must 
be  ready  before  you  start  mixing.  Make  your  cake  step  by  step  as  follows: 

1.  Sift  flour  before  measuring,  then  spoon  it  lightly  into  a  cup.  Do  not  pack  or 
shake  it  down. 

2.  Sift  flour  again  with  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  into  a  large  bowl. 

3.  Measure  water  and  mix  in  extracts. 

4.  Measure  salad  oil.  Separate  eggs. 

6.  Now  dump  everything  except  egg  whites  and  cream  of  tartar  into  the  dry 
ingredients  and  beat  until  smooth.  It'll  take  you  about  a  minute. 

7.  Beat  egg  whites  and  cream  of  tartar  very  stiff  or  until  you  are  able  to  cut 
the  whites  with  a  knife. 

8.  Pour  batter  into  beaten  whites  gradually,  mixing  as  you  go.  Pour  into  im- 
greased  pan  and  bake  65  minutes.  When  cake  is  done  let  it  cool  in  the  pan, 
upside  down,  on  a  cake  rack.  If  cake  rises  above  pan  as  it  is  apt  to  do,  turn 
pan  upside  down  and  support  edge  on  3  cups.  When  perfectly  cold,  loosen 
cake  from  sides  and  tube  with  a  spatula.  If  cakes  doesn't  drop  out  of  pan 
easily,  give  pan  a  good  whack  on  the  bottom.  It  won't  hurt  cake  a  bit. 
Bake  at  320  ^  Serves  16  to  20.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Powers 


GATTIS' 
HAYES-BARTON  PHARMACY 

Twenty-five  Years  of  Dependable  Service 

2000  FAIRVIEW  ROAD 
Phone  2-4641  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


88 


WALDORF  ASTORIA  ($100.00  Cake) 

1  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  2  teasp.  baking  powder 
4  oz.  (4  squares)  chocolate  2  teasp.  vanilla 

melted  1  cup  nut  meats  (i/^  cup  will 

2  eggs  do  nicely) 

1^/2  cups  sweet  milk. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  melted  chocolate  and  beaten  eggs.  Sift  dry  in- 
gredients and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts  and  bake  in  spout 
pan  350°  for  45  minutes  or  longer.  (1  hour  and  a  little  over  is  really  not  too 
long.) 

ICING 

cup  butter  1  teasp.  vanilla 

2  oz.  chocolate  1  teasp.  lemon  juice  (I  like  a 

1  egg  little  more) 

XYi  cups  powdered  sugar  1  cup  nut  meats  Q/2  cup  will 

1  pinch  salt  be  fine) 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  together.  Add  beaten  egg,  sugar,  vanilla  and  lemon 
juice.  Either  mix  in  nuts  or  sprinkle  on  top. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Hooker 

COCONUT  SPONGE  CAKE 

1/4  cups  sugar)  2  cups  cake  flour  ) 

4  egg  yolks  )  cream  together  2  teasp.  baking  powder)  sift  together 
%  cup  hot  water  ^  teasp.  salt  ) 

Add  flour  alternately  with  hot  water  to  sugar  mixture,  beating  until  well  mixed. 
Add:  1  teasp.  vanilla,  4  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff,  fold  in  gently.  Bake  25  minutes 
in  360  degree  oven  in  2  greased  9  inch  pans.  Ice  with  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle 
with  coconut.  Mrs.  John  Prescott 

APPLESAUCE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

1  cup  butter  (or  shortening  or  oil) 

2  cups  stewed  apples  (add  2  teaspoons  soda  and  Yi  cup  sugar  after 

apples  are  stewed.) 

1  teaspoon  each  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves,  ginger. 

1  teaspoon  flavoring  (vanilla  preferred) 

1  box  raisins  rolled  in  flour 

1  cup  English  or  black  walnuts,  chopped 

1  cup  pecans,  chopped  fine 
Also  add  finely  chopped  candied  fruits,  if  desired. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  apples,  spices,  raisins,  nuts. 
Add  enough  flour  to  make  an  ordinary  batter.  Bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  375 
degree  oven.  Makes  4,  9-inch  layers. 

CAKE  FILLING 
1  coconut,  with  its  milk,  2  heaping  teasp.  flour 

(grate  or  grind)  2  cups  sugar 

Piece  of  butter  cut  thick 
Put  milk,  sugar  and  flour  on  to  cook.  When  it  starts  to  thicken,  add  coconut  and 
butter,  cook  little  longer. 

Mrs.  G.  S.  Rapcr 

89 


FIESTA  BANANA  CAKE 

Measure  into  sifter:  Measure  into  cup: 

2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  *Sour  milk  or  buttermilk  (see 

1  teasp.  baking  powder  below) 

1  teasp.  soda  1  teasp.  vanilla 

%  teasp.  salt  Have  ready: 

1      cups  sugar  1  cup  mashed  fully  ripe  bananas 

Measure  into  mixing  bowl :  i/4  cup  coarsely  chopped  nut 

cup  butter  or  vegetable  meats  (optional) 

shortening  2  eggs,  unbeaten 

*With  butter,  margarine,  or  lard,  use  cup  minus  2  tablespoons  sour  milk  or 
buttermilk.  With  vegetable  or  other  shortening,  use  Yi  cup  sour  milk  or  butter- 
milk. 

1.  Stir  shortening  just  to  soften.  Sift  in  dry  ingredients.  Add  ^  cup  milk, 
the  mashed  bananas,  and  mix  until  all  flour  is  dampened.  Then  beat  2  minutes, 
or  300  strokes. 

2.  Add  eggs,  nuts  and  remaining  milk.  Beat  1  minute  longer  or  150  strokes. 
Scrape  bowl  and  spoon  or  beater  often.  Turn  batter  into  pans.  Bake  in  moder- 
ate oven  375 °F.  for  25  minutes  or  until  done.  Cool  cake  in  pans  on  racks 

for  5  minutes.  Then  loosen  from  sides  with  spatula,  turn  out,  and  turn  right- 
side  up  on  racks  to  cool.  Whip  1  cup  heavy  cream.  Peel  and  cut  3  ripe 
bananas  crosswise  into  j^'^'^ch  slices.  Fold  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
maraschino  cherries  into  one-third  of  the  whipped  cream.  Spread  on  bottom 
layer.  Arrange  half  of  banana  slices  on  top.  Cover  with  second  layer,  spread 
top  with  remaining  cream.  Decorate  with  remaining  banana  slices  and  cherries 
just  before  serving.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchings 

FABULOUS  CHEESE  CAKE 

1  6  oz.  pkg.  zwieback  teasp.  salt 

Yi  cup  confectioner's  sugar  Yi  ^^^P  butter 

grated  rind  large  lemon  Yi  teasp.  vanilla 

1  lb.  cottage  cheese  1  cup  heavy  cream 

4  eggs  /4  ^"P  sifted  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

Roll  zwieback  into  fine  crumbs,  mix  with  confectioner's  sugar  and  melted  butter. 
Grease  an  8-inch  spring  form  pan  and  pat  crumbs  onto  bottom  and  sides,  saving 
those  left  over  for  top  of  cake.  Start  oven  at  250°  F.  Push  cottage  cheese  through 
a  sieve  to  break  it  up.  Separate  eggs  and  beat  yolks  until  very  thick.  Slowly  add 
Yz  cup  sugar.  Mix  all  other  ingredients  except  egg  whites  and  sugar,  very 
thoroughly.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  gradually  beat  in  remaining  sugar. 
Mix  egg  whites  into  cheese  batter  with  a  gentle  hand.  Pour  into  pan,  cover  with 
crumbs  and  bake  1  %  hours.  Leave  in  oven  until  cake  is  cold  and  it  will  not  fall. 

Jacques  E.  Fulghum 


BETTS  COAL  AND  OIL  COMPANY,  INC. 

"Tons  of  Satisfaction" 
COAL  AND  PETROLEUM  PRODUCTS 
608  West  Hargett  Street  Telephone  5869 


90 


VERY  BEST  FRUIT  CAKE 


3  oz.  pkg.  lemon  peel 
3  oz.  pkg.  orange  peel 
Yz  lb.  candied  cherries 
^  lb.  California  walnuts 


lb. 


pecai 


Yi  lb.  pitted  dates 

lb.  candied  pineapple 
lb.  preserved  citron 


y2  cup  sugar  - 
Yi  cup  honey 
5  well  beaten  eggs 
1  Yi  cup  enriched  flour 
1  teasp,  salt 
1  teasp.  baking  powder 
1  teasp.  allspice 
Yi  teasp.  nutmeg 


1/ 


2  teasp. 


cup  oran 


:loves 
ge  or  grape  juice 


Yi  lb.  seeded  raisms 

cup  enriched  flour 
1  cup  shortening 

Shred  fruit  peel,  halve  cherries,  nuts  and  dates,  cut  pineapple  and  citron  the  size 
of  almonds.  Dredge  fruits  in  cup  flour.  Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add 
honey,  then  eggs  and  beat  well.  Add  flour  sifted  with  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  fruit  juice.  Beat  thoroughly.  Pour  batter  over  floured  fruits  and  mix  well. 
Pour  batter  into  heavy  greased  paper-lined  cake  tins  or  baking  dishes.  For 
attractive  gift  packaging  pour  batter  into  pint  or  quart  aluminum  foil  freezer 
containers.  Bake  in  slow  oven,  250°,  2  to  3  hours  for  pints,  ^Yi  hours  for  quart. 
Place  pan  containing  2  cups  water  on  bottom  shelf  of  oven  while  baking.  This 
gives  cakes  a  greater  volume,  a  more  moist  texture  and  a  smooth  shining  glaze. 
Store  in  covered  container  in  a  cool  place.  Makes  about  5  pounds. 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Barnes 


POUND  CAKE 


Fold 
more. 


2  sticks  butter  ) 

2  cups  sugar     )  beat  together 

4  eggs,  separated 

add  yolks  to  butter  and  sugar 
'iYi  cups  sifted  cake  flour 
in  stiffly  beaten  egg  yolks.  Cook  at 


350  d< 


31/2  teasp.  double  action  baking 
powder 

1  cup  milk,  add  alternately 
with  flour 

2  teasp.  vanilla 

grees — about  1  hour  or  a  little 
Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin 


HUMPHREY'S 
DAIRY  BAKERY 

Cameron  Village 
Raleigh,  N.  C. 


91 


ICE  BOX  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  jar  (large)  Dromedary  2  cups  nuts  (pecans) 

fruit  cake  mix  1  box  raisins 

1  box  vanilla  wafers  (big)  1  large  can  Carnation  milk 

Mix  and  roll  and  put  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Hinton 

OLD  FASHIONED  HALF  POUND  CAKE 

1  cup  soft  butter  2  cups  cake  flour 

1  %  cups  sugar  i/g  teasp.  mace 

5  eggs  Yi  teasp.  vanilla 

pinch  salt 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  together  until  all  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  unbeaten  eggs 
one  at  a  time  and  beat  thoroughly.  Sift  and  measure  flour.  Add  salt  and  mace 
and  sift  again.  Add  flour  to  egg  mixture  and  mix  carefully.  Add  vanilla.  Bake 
325°,  50  to  60  minutes.  Mrs.  Mary  Bostick 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

Batter  Fruit 

8  egg  whites  1  grated  coconut  or  1  can 

1  cup  butter  Baker's  coconut 

4  cups  flour  lt>-  almonds  (blanched  and 

2  cups  sugar  cut) 

^  cup  sweet  milk  '4  l''^-  citron 

1  tablesp.  vanilla  1  lb.  crystalized  pineapple 

1  tablesp.  lemon  Yi  lb.  crystalized  cherries 

2  tablesp.  baking  powder  2  boxes  white  raisins 

Cut  fruit  in  small  pieces.  Dredge  fruit  in  one  cup  of  the  4  cups  of  flour.  Pour 

batter  over  dredged  fruit.  Mix  well.  Bake  3  hours  in  moderate  oven,  very 

slowly  first  hour.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Abernethy 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 

2  cups  self  rising  flour  Yi  cup  shortening 

Yi  cup  cocoa  1  cup  sweet  milk 

cups  sugar  1  tablesp.  vanilla 

Place  dry  ingredients  in  mixing  bowl.  Add  shortening.  Mix  well.  Add  milk, 
eggs  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  two  eight-inch  pans  in  350  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Underwood 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 

4  eggs  2  cups  flour  ) 

2  cups  sugar  1  teasp.  soda  )  sifted 

%  cup  butter  (3/8  lb.)  2  teasp.  cream  of  tartar) 

2  oz.  chocolate  1  teasp.  vanilla  flavoring 

1  cup  milk 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  to  butter  and  sugar.  Alter- 
nately add  milk  and  sifted  flour.  Add  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Then  egg 
whites  slightly  beaten.  Makes  2  large  layers.  Bake  at  350°  for  approximately  30 
to  35  minutes.  Mrs.  John  R.  Bourne 


92 


PINEAPPLE  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  iron  frying  pan.  Sprinkle  generously  with  brown 
sugar  and  nuts.  Arrange  pineapple  and  maraschino  cherries. 
Batter:    1^  cups  flour  1  egg 

^  cup  butter  %  cup  water 

%  cup  sugar  1/2  teasp.  vanilla 

Mix  as  usual  for  cake  batter.  Pour  over  arrangement  of  pineapple,  etc,  in  frying 
pan.  Bake  at  325°  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Let  cool.  Turn  out  into  plate,  after 
running  knife  around  edge  to  be  sure  cake  is  free  from  sides  of  pan. 

Mrs.  Ed  Stevens 

SPICE  CAKE 

Cream  2  cups  brown  sugar  with  Yi  cup  butter 

Dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  1  cup  of  sour  milk.  Add  to  this  mixture: 
1  teasp.  cloves  1/2  teasp.  nutmeg 

Yi  teasp.  cinnamon  2  cups  sifted  flour 

Bake  in  loaf.  Nuts  and  raisins  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Smith 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 

4  eggs  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter  3  teasp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  Yi  teasp.  salt 

3  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  milk  and  dry  ingredients  alternately,  beating 
after  each  addition. 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  /4  teasp.  cloves 

Yi  teasp.  vanilla  teasp.  cinnamon 

Yz  lb.  seeded  raisins 

Divide  batter  in  two  parts — to  one  add  nuts  and  vanilla — to  the  other  add 
raisins  and  spices.  Bake  in  four  layers  at  350°. 

CARAMEL  ICING 

3  cups  brown  sugar — packed  1  tablesp.  butter 
Yi  cup  cream                                      1  teasp.  vanilla 
Y{  cup  water 

Boil  5  minutes,  add  Yi  cup  chopped  nuts  and  beat  until  cold. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

2  cups  butter  1  large  (qt.)  can  sliced  pine- 

2  cups  sugar  apple  drained  and  chopped 

4  cups  flour  Yi  cup  drained  preserves  or 
10  eggs  stiff  orange  marmalade 

3  lbs.  white  raisins  1  teasp.  salt 

1  teasp.  lemon  extract  3  teasp,  baking  powder 

1  lb.  citron  4  cups  chopped  nuts  (pecans) 

1  lb.  cherries  (candied) 
Fruit  and  nuts  should  be  cleaned  and  chopped  and  dredged  with  Yi  cup  of  flour. 
Sift  remaining  flour  with  dry  ingredients.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add 
beaten  egg  yolks.  Add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  preserves.  Add  fruit.  Mix 
well  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  5  pans,  approximately  2  pounds 
in  each  pan,  250°  for  XYi  hours.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

93 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Yi  lb.  butter  4  cups  flour 

6  eggs  4  teasp.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  milk  alternately 

with  sifted  dry  ingredients. 

To  one-half  the  batter  add: 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins  1  teasp.  cloves 

1  cup  chopped  pecans  1  tablesp.  cinnamon 

1  teasp.  ground  allspice 

To  the  other  half  of  batter  add:  %  lb.  citron,  cut  in  small  thin 

%  teasp.  lemon  flavoring  slices. 

This  recipe  will  make  four  nice  size  layers — two  of  each  batter.  Bake  in  well 

greased,  floured  layer  pans,  in  moderate  oven  (350°),  30  to  40  minutes.  When 

cool  put  together  with  the  following  filling: 

1  grated  coconut,  1  Yi  cups  boiling  water 
rind  and  juice  3  lemons                       2  or  3  tablesp.  corn  starch 

2  cups  sugar 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Spread  between  and  on  top  of  layers. 

Mrs.  Alton  P.  Tripp 

PRUNELLA  CAKE 

Yi  cup  Crisco  2^  cup  stewed  prunes 

1  cup  sugar  1  Yi  cups  flour 

cup  sour  milk  2  eggs 

Yi  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  salt,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice,  baking  powder. 
Blend  Crisco  with  eggs  and  sugar.  Add  chopped  prunes.  Stir  in  milk.  Add  sifted 
dry  ingredients.  Makes  two  layers. 

ICING 

2  cups  confectionery  sugar  2  tablesp.  prune  juice 
Yz  teasp.  cinnamon                             2  tablesp.  Crisco 

Y%  teasp.  salt  1  tablesp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  1  cup  of  sugar,  cinnamon  and  salt  with  Crisco.  Add  remaining  sugar,  prune 
juice  and  lemon  juice.  Beat  until  creamy.  Mrs.  C.  S.  Manooch,  Sr. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

12  egg  whites  teasp.  salt 

1  teasp.  cream  of  tartar  Yi  teasp.  vanilla 

1 Y2  cups  sugar  Yi  teasp.  almond 

1  cup  sifted  cake  flour 
Add  salt  and  beat  egg  whites  until  foamy.  Add  cream  of  tartar,  beat  until  eggs 
are  stiff  but  not  dry.  Gradually  fold  in  sugar  (use  flat  egg  beater) .  Add  flour  and 
flavorings.  Cut  through  batter  with  knife  after  it  is  placed  in  the  pan.  Use  large 
tube  pan.  Bake  1  hour.  Start  temperature  at  275°  and  cook  20  minutes,  then 
increase  heat  to  325°.  Mrs.  John  R.  Bourne 


Compliments  of 
DWORSKY'S  FURNITURE  COMPANY 

2900  Hillsboro  St.  Phone  3-9255 


94 


YELLOW  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

6  eggs  Yi  tcasp,  salt 

lj4  cups  sugar  1  tcasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  water  1  teasp.  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  flour 

Beat  6  egg  whites  stiff.  Pour  over  white  sugar  syrup  made  by  boiling  1^  cups 
sugar  and  1  cup  water  to  238  degrees  F.  Beat  until  cool.  Fold  in  6  egg  yolks 
beaten  until  thick  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Then  fold  in  1  cup  flour,  sifted  4  times 
with  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  ]/4  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  in  tube  pan  at  315 
degrees  from  45  to  60  minutes.  Mrs.  A.  B.  Wester 


/4 


cu 


PINEAPPLE  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

p  butter  2  egg  yolks 


1  cup  sugar  1     cups  flour 
^4  teasp.  flavoring         ,                      2  tcasp.  baking  powder 
Yi  cup  milk                                         1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  egg  whites  pineapple,  sliced  or  diced 
2  tablesp.  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  flavoring  and  egg  yolks.  Sift  dry  in- 
gredients together  three  times,  add  alternately  with  milk.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Put  butter  in  bottom  of  heavy  frying  pan  or  square  baking  pan 
(8  by  8  inches) ,  melt,  add  brown  sugar  and  stir  until  blended.  Arrange  pineapple 
over  sugar,  pour  cake  batter  over  pineapple.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°),  25 
to  30  minutes.  Turn  upside  down  on  cake  plate  immediately. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Powers 


CAROLINA 
FREEZER  LOCKERS,  INC. 

FREEZER  LOCKERS  —  MEAT  CURING 
COLD  STORAGE 

PHONE  8193 

412  Glenwood  Ave.  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


95 


mm  1 

i 

^mj/ff    FOOD  STORES  I204  NEWBERN  Ave/ 

2012  Fairview  Road    —    1204  Newbern  Ave. 


TIP  TOP  IS  PART  OF 
THE  COMMUNITY  IT  SERVES 

YOU  ARE  CORDIALLY 
INVITED  TO  USE  OUR 

HOSPITALITY  ROOM 

(In  the  Fairview  Road  Store) 

For  Your  Class  Meetings 
Circle  Meetings,  Clubs  ond 
Get-togethers 

This  is  another  free  Tip  Top  Service 

Year-Round  Ample  Parking 

Air  Conditioning  Facilities 


CAKE  ICINGS 


CHOCOLATE  ICING 

2  cups  sugar  ^4  cup  evaporated  Pet  milk 
4  squares  chocolate 

Dissolve  chocolate  and  sugar,  then  add  milk.  Boil  2  minutes;  stir  constantly. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Smith 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  ICING 

3  sqrs.  chocolate  /4  teasp.  salt 

2  tablesp.  butter  1  teasp.  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

%  cup  rich  milk 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  the  chocolate  and  stir  over  a  slow  fire  until 
the  chocolate  melts.  Then  add  the  sugar,  milk  and  salt.  Continue  stirring  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  without  stirring  to  240°  or  the  soft  ball  stage. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  extract  and  nuts  if  desired.  Let  stand  until  thick  and 
creamy.  Ice  cake. 

Mrs.  E.  I.  Terry 

CREAM  CHEESE  ICING 

1  tablesp.  milk  1  square  unsweetened  chocolate 

1  (3  oz.)  package  cream  cheese  1  teasp^  vanilla  and  dash  of  salt 

2^  cups  sifted  confectioners 
sugar 

Cream  the  cheese  and  milk.  Add  sugar  gradually.  Add  melted  chocolate.  Blend 
well.  Then  add  salt  and  vanilla. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Underwood 

CREAMY  CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  /4  ^^^P  rnilk. 

cup  cocoa  or  one  square  14  teasp.  vanilla 

Bakers  chocolate  shake  of  salt 

cup  butter 

Mix  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  vanilla,  in  a  sauce  pan.  Put  over  a  low  flame 
and  stir  constantly  until  mixture  boils  all  over.  Allow  to  boil  exactly  one  minute. 
Remove  from  fire  and  cool  slightly.  Add  vanilla  and  beat  until  desired  con- 
sistancy.  Two  tablespoons  of  fine  marshmallow  cream  blended  with  this  mixture 
makes  it  truly  luscious. 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Grover 


97 


BROILED  ICING 

3  tables,  melted  butter  2  tablesp,  cream 

5  tablesp.  brown  sugar  1/2  cup  dry  shredded  cocoanut 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  spread  on  top  of  cake  while  still  warm;  place  under  slow 
broiler,  about  275°  until  icing  bubbles  all  over  and  becomes  slightly  brown. 
Sufficient  for  cake  8  inches  square. 

Good  on  cake  mixes  but  double  the  quantity.  Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

FOOLPROOF  CARAMEL  FROSTING 

One  large  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  2  cups  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed,  V2 
cup  cofiee  cream  (or  canned  milk  undiluted) .  Boil  five  minutes  at  low  heat. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  one  "Milky  Way"  candy  bar,  dissolve,  and  then  add  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  stir  until  thick.  This  is  ample  for  two  layers. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  George 

MOCHA  ICING  FOR  DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 

stick  butter  1  teasp.  vanilla  flavoring 

^  cup  coffee  (cold)  1  pkg.  xxxx  sugar 

3  tablesp.  cocoa 

Have  butter  soft.  Add  cocoa,  coffee,  and  sugar.  Do  not  always  use  quite  a  full 
package  of  sugar.  Delicious  on  Devils  Food  Cake.         Mrs.  John  R.  Bourne 

CARAMEL  ICING 

Mix  well:  6  tablesp.  cream  or  top  milk 

2  cups  brown  sugar  i/^  cup  butter 

Bring  to  slow  boil  and  boil  for  two  (2)  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  Yi 
teaspoon  baking  powder  and  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  well  until  smooth  and 
creamy.  Then  spread  on  cake.  Mrs.  L.  B.  Crosby 


DIAMONDS  WATCHES 


1881      ^1111 1 II  K  1952 


JEWELERS 
and 

SILVERSMITHS 

128  Fayetteville  Street 
Raleigh,  N.  C. 
SILVER  JEWELRY 


98 


COMPLIMENTS 
of 

CAROLINA 
SURGICAL  SUPPLY  COMPANY 

RALEIGH  DURHAM 


COMPLIMENTS 
of 

LANE  TRUCKING  COMPANY 

GRADING  —  HAULING 
SAND     —     STONE     —  GRAVEL 


COOKIES 


BUTTER  FINGERS 

cup  confectionary  sugar  4  tcasp.  water 

1  lb.  margarine  4  cups  flour 

4  teasp.  vanilla  1  cup  nuts  (chopped) 

Mix  and  make  into  little  fingers.  Bake  in  oven  300-350  degrees  for  about  20 
minutes.  Makes  about  100. 

Mrs.  Kathleen  Wheatley 

CHEWY  BROWNIES 

Not  quite  1  stick  butter  or  1  cup  flour 

margarine  ^3  teasp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

5  tablesp.  cocoa  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Melt  butter.  Mix  cocoa  and  sugar  and  add  butter.  Then  add  other  ingredients. 
Cook  at  325°,  20  to  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ed  Stevens 

BROWNIES 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  or  Add  2  beaten  eggs 

margarine  Yt,  cup  all  purpose  flour 

%  cup  white  sugar  pinch  of  baking  soda 

Beat  well  Yi  cup  broken  walnuts  or 

2  squares  melted  chocolate  pecans 

Use  a  greased  pan  about  7in.  square.  Bake  about  30  minutes  at  325  degrees. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  George 

BROWNIES 

2  squares  chocolate  ^  teasp.  salt 

Yi  cup  shortening  %  cup  flour 

2  eggs  Yi  teasp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

Melt  chocolate  and  shortening,  add  sugar;  eggs,  sifted  flour  with  salt  and  baking 
powder.  Add  nuts  last.  Bake  in  10-inch  square  pan,  25  minutes  in  350  degree 
oven. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Howell 
Mrs.  W.  J.  Brodgon 

100 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 

Cream :   1  cup  butter  1  '/z  cups  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  Add  and  Mix: 

1  cup  white  sugar  2i/^  cups  oatmeal 
Add:  2  eggs  lYz  teasp.  vanilla 

Sift  and  mix  with  above:  Add  and  Mix: 

2  teasp.  baking  powder  1  cup  raisins  or 
1/4  teasp.  salt  coconut 

Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  cookie  sheet.  Bake  350°  to  375'  oven  for  20  to  25  minutes 
•  until  brown.  These  may  be  pressed  down  with  wet  glass. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 


or 


PECAN  BALLS 

Yi  cup  butter  I  pinch  salt 

2  tablesp.  sugar  1  cup  cake  flour 

1  teasp.  vanilla  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Cream  butter.  Add  sugar  and  other  ingredients.  Roll  in  small  balls.  Bake  in 
slow  oven  until  well  dry.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar  while  hot.  If  stored  in  air-tight 
container  will  keep  for  several  weeks.  Excellent  for  Christmas  cookies. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Fulghum 

WET  GLASS  COOKIES 

Cream  together:  Sift  together  and  mix  with  above: 

1  cup  butter  lA  teasp.  salt 

1  cup  brown  sugar  (packed)  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  teasp.  baking  soda 

Add :  3  eggs,  well  beaten  Add :   1  teasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  pkg.  cut  up  dates 

Drop  one  full  teaspoon  of  batter  on  greased  cookie  sheet  one  inch  apart  and  press 
down  M'ith  wet  glass.  Bake  375°  until  brown. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

CRESCENTS 

Cream  together:  1  tablesp.  ice  water 

ly^  sticks  butter  1  cup  pecans,  chopped  fine 


cu 


p  powdered  sugar  2  cups  plain  flour  (makes  stiff 

Add :  dough) 
1  tablesp.  vanilla  and 
Take  about  1  teaspoon  dough  and  roll  in  hand,  shape  it  in  the  form  of  a  crescent. 
Bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet  about  30  minutes  at  300  degrees.  They  will  not 
be  brown.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar  and  cool. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  George 


LIGHTFOOT'S  ANTIQUES 

''We  Specialize  in  Frames,  Prints  and  Mirrors" 
2  Maiden  Lane  Tel.  No.  3-1167 


101 


lire 


ENGLISH  TOFFEE  COOKIES 

Cream:   1  cup  butter  Add:        cup  ground  pecans 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

Add:   1  egg  yolk  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Press  on  cookie  sheet  that  has  sides  until  it  touches  all  sides.  Spread  egg  whi 
unbeaten  over  the  top.  Sprinkle  cup  ground  nuts  over  this  and  press  them 
into  the  dough  a  bit.  Bake  slowly  315°  for  45  minutes  or  1  hour.  Cut  immedi- 
ately into  squares.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

REFRIGERATOR  PINWHEELS 

1  cup  butter  1  teasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  4  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teasp.  soda 

3  eggs  Yi  teasp.  salt 

Cream  butter  until  soft.  Gradually  add  sugar  and  continue  creaming  until  smooth. 

Add  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla,  beat  until  light.  Stir  in  flour  which  has  been 

sifted  with  soda  and  salt.  Mix  well.  Roll  dough  ^  inch  thickness  and  spread 

with  filling. 

FILLING 

1  lb.  dates  (run  through  food  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

chopper)  Yi  cup  sugar 

Yz  cup  orange  juice 

Combine  ingredients:  cook  ten  minutes.  Cool  slightly  and  spread  on  rolled 
dough.  Roll  up  as  for  Jelly  Roll.  Wrap  in  wax  paper.  Chill  over  night.  Cut  in 
Ys  inch  slices.  Bake  at  375°  for  twelve  minutes.  Mrs.  L.  B.  Crosby 

DATE  BARS 

1  pkg.  dates  5  tablesp.  flour 

1  cup  nuts,  chopped  2  teasp.  baking  powder 

Yi  cup  sugar  %  teasp.  salt 

3  unbeaten  eggs  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Mix  all  together,  eggs  last,  one  at  a  time.  Pour  in  well  greased  shallow  pan.  Bake 

in  350  degree  oven  about  30  minutes.  Cool  a  little,  cut  in  squares,  roll  in 
powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Thomas 

QUAKER  OATMEAL  CRISPS 

|/2  cup  butter  2  cups  oatmeal 

4/5  cup  brown  sugar  Yi  teasp.  salt 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  until  light.  Add  salt  and  oats.  Bake 
in  a  well-greased  tin  in  a  moderate  (300°)  oven  until  delicate  brown.  Cut  in 
pieces  when  cool.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Keggereis 

DATE  TORTE 

1  pkg.  dates  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  soda  1  Yi  cups  flour 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  tbsp.  butter  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  nut  meats 

Sprinkle  soda  over  cut-up  dates,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  this.  Let  cool. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs,  baking  powder  and  flour;  last  add  dates 
and  nuts  to  this  batter.  Bake  in  long  well  greased  pan  at  325°  about  40  min- 
utes. Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Serves  10. 

Mrs.  Lucy  Corzine 

102 


NUT  BARS 

Yi  cup  butter  1  teasp.  vanilla 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  teasp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  cup  nut  meats 

1 1/2  cups  flour 

Melt  butter,  ada  sugar,  stir  in  eggs.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  vanilla 
and  nuts.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  oven  350  degrees.  Cut  in  bars. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Helfrich 

MEXICAN  WEDDING  CAKES 

^2  cup  butter  1  cup  nuts 

1  cup  flour  ,      ,  ■         1  teasp.  vanilla 

4  tablesp.  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly,  adding  nuts  last.  Shape  in  small  rolls  size  of  a  date  and  bake. 
When  done  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Bake  at  350°  for  about  35  minutes  or  until 
done.  Mrs.  O.  W.  Hooker 

QUICK  COOKIES 

24  doubc  graham  crackers  or  %.  cup  chopped  pecans 

1  can  Borden's  condensed  or  walnuts 
sweetened  milk                                    1  pkg.  chocolate  drops 

Preheat  oven  325°.  Roll  graham  crackers  and  mix  thoroughly  with  other  in- 
gredients. Spread  evenly  and  cook  on  buttered  baking  sheet  for  20  to  25  minutes. 
Cut  in  squares  and  remove  immediately.  Mrs.  Earl  Umstead 

BUTTERSCOTCH  STICKS 

y2  cup  oleo  2  teasp.  baking  powder 

2^/2  cups  brown  sugar  ^/2  cup  nuts 

2  eggs  2  teasp.  vanilla 
U/2  cups  flour  ^2  teasp.  salt 

Melt  butter.  Add  sugar  and  blend.  Add  unbeaten  eggs  and  beat  well.  Add  flour, 
nuts  and  vanilla.  Spread  thinly  on  greased  pan.  Cook  about  30  minutes  at  325°. 

Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 

PECAN  DELIGHTS 

1  cup  self-rising  flour  '/4  cup  butter 

cup  light  brown  sugar 
Mix  together  well.  Pat  into  a  greased  9-inch  square  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  350  degrees  until  slightly  browned. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar  2  tablesp.  self  rising  flour 

2  eggs  well  beaten  \Yz  cups  cocoanut 

1  teasp.  vanilla  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Pour  over  baked  mixture.  Bake  at  the  same  tem- 
perature 350  degrees  until  browned  about  20-25  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

EGG  KISSES 

1  egg  white,  beat  stiff  %  cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  firmy  packed  teasp.  vanilla 

Mix  together  and  drop  on  greased  baking  sheet  in  small  balls.  Cook  at  325 
degrees,  about  15  minutes.  Makes  about  3  dozen.  Mrs.  E.  S.  Martin 


103 


ICE  BOX  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter  |/2  teasp.  salt 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 
2  eggs                                                3^2  cups  flour 

1  scant  tcasp.  soda 

Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  eggs  continue  to  beat.  Sift  flour,  soda  and  salt 
together  and  mix  with  nuts  and  other  mixture.  Make  into  rolls  and  put  in  ice 
box  over  night.  Take  out  next  day,  slice  very  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  Brogdon 

PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

1  cup  peanut  butter  creamed  2  well  beaten  eggs 

with  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  shortening,  add  gradually  1  teasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  brown  sugar  slightly  tcasp.  salt 

packed  2  tcasp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  white  sugar — then  add 

Cream  peanut  butter  and  shortening,  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  sift  flour,  measure 
and  add  with  salt  and  baking  powder,  add  vanilla.  Chill  dough  thoroughly.  Roll 
into  one  inch  ball  and  press  down  with  fork  on  well  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake 
in  oven  325  degrees  until  slightly  browned.  Makes  7  dozens. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Russell 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS 

2  squares  chocolate  1  teasp,  baking  powder 
butter  size  of  egg                                 1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  sugar  1  tcasp.  vanilla 

2  eggs  pinch  of  salt 
1  cup  flour 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  in  double  boiler.  Cool.  Add  sugar  and  eggs  whole, 
one  at  a  time.  Beat  well.  Add  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add 
vanilla.  Drop  from  spoon  on  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake  10  to  12  minutes  at  350°. 

Mrs.  John  Prescott 

ROCKS 

Ys  cup  shortening  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tsg.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  2Yz  tsp.  pastry  spice 
^4  cup  milk  1  cup  dates  or  raisins 
2  tbsp.  cocoa  1  cup  nut  meats 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  shortening,  sugar,  eggs  and  vanilla,  add  nuts  and  raisins  or  dates. 
Allow  to  stand  ten  minutes.  Alternate  milk  and  dry  ingredients  (sifted  to- 
gether). Drop  on  cookie  sheet,  bake  in  moderate  oven  25-30  minutes.  Oven 
should  be  400°,  so  cookies  will  set,  then  reduce  heat  to  bake  them  without 
burning.  Mrs.  Phillip  Schwartz 


ECONOMY  CLEANERS 

407  W.  Peace  St.      —      Phone  7538 


104 


SPRITS 

1/4  lb.  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  tcasp.  almond  extract 

Roll  out  and  cut  like  cheese  straws.  Bake  to  a  golden  brown. 

Mrs,  E.  B.  Grover 


CORNFLAKE  COOKIES  (4  doz.) 

2  egg  whites  3  cups  cornflakes 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

teasp.  vanilla 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Gradually  add  sugar  to  egg  whites,  beating  all  the 
time.  Then  add  cornflakes  and  nuts  alternately.  Add  vanilla.  Drop  on  cookie 
sheet  (greased)  by  teaspoonfuls.  Cook  in  350  degree  oven  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Howell  DeBerry,  Jr. 


OLD  FASHIONED  GINGER  COOKIES 

2  cups  flour  (sifted)  1 V4  tsp.  soda 

%  cup  shortening  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

(bacon  fat  best)  tsp.  cloves 

%  cup  brown  sugar  (light)  2  tsp.  ginger 

V2  cup  molasses  1  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  1/2  cup  sour  milk 

Rub  shortening  into  flour,  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  This  makes  a  stiff 
dough.  Then  roll  out,  adding  a  little  flour  to  prevent  sticking.  Bake  15  minutes 
at  375  degrees.  Makes  about  30  cookies. 

Mrs.  Annie  Thompson 


LEBKUCHEN 

4  eggs  tsp.  ginger 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  V2  tsp.  allspice 

2  cups  flour  2  oz.  citron,  cut  fine 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  ^2  lb.  almonds,  blanched 

14  tsp.  nutmeg  and  cut  fine 

Beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Mix  the  flour  and  spices  with  the 
chopped  nuts  and  citron  and  combine  the  mixtures.  Bake  in  flat  greased  pans 
in  a  moderate  oven  (375°)  for  20  minutes.  When  cool  cut  into  narrow  strips 
and  frost  with  powdered  sugar  icing. 

Mrs.  Philip  Schwartz 


E.  G.  COTH  RAN 

REALTOR 

Commercial  Bldg.  Dial  3-1292 


105 


Joe  Chambers  Bob  Coviness 

CHAMBERS-CAVINESS,  INC. 

''Buildings  of  Merif  —  Homes  of  Distinction'' 

—  GENERAL  CONTRACTORS  — 
Residential  and  Commercial  Builders 
PHONE  5643 

2515  Foirview  Rood  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


C.  G.  Poole,  Jr.,  President      E.  R.  Harris,  Jr.,  Vice  President 
John  Manning,  Secretary-Treasurer 

C.  G.  POOLE,  INC 

Highway,  Grading  and  Excavating  Contractors 

RALEIGH,  NORTH  CAROLINA 
Telephone  6051  P.  O.  Box  721 


LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  water 

Cook  together  in  top  of  double  boiler  until  boils.  Combine  yolks  of  two  eggs 
beaten,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  3  tablespoons  cornstarch  mixed  with  water; 
and  add  to  the  boiling  sugar  and  water.  Boil  until  thick.  Pour  into  8-inch  baked 
pie  shell.  Beat  the  two  whites  of  eggs  separately  until  they  stand  in  peaks,  add 
2  tablespoons  sugar  and  top  the  pie. 

Mrs.  Harold  Eckcrt 


LEMON  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablesp.  flour 

teasp.  salt  2  tablesp.  cornstarch 

1/4  cups  water  2  egg  yolks 

1  tablesp.  butter  cup  lemon  juice 

Mix  dry  ingredients  well.  Add  water,  cook  until  thick.  Add  beaten  egg  volks  and 
cook  until  thick,  stir  constantly.  Remove  from  heat,  add  butter,  lemon  juice  and 
1  teaspoon  grated  rind.  Put  in  baked  shell.  Cover  with  meringue  made  with  2 
egg  whites  and  4  tablespoons  sugar  beaten  stiff. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Copley 

LEMON  PIE  FILLING  ^ 

cup  sifted  flour  3  egg  yolks 

cups  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

few  grains  salt  1  teasp.  butter 

juice  of  1 lemons 
Beat  egg  yolks;  add  mixed  dry  ingredients,  juice  of  lemon,  pour  in  boiling  water, 
stirring  well.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  until  thickened;  cook  10  minutes; 
add  butter  and  pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Cover  with  meringue  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Sam  G.  Riley,  Jr. 

CHESS  PIE 

4  eggs  4  tablesp.  milk 

2  cups  sugar  1  stick  butter  or  margarine 
4  tablesp.  corn  meal 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  corn  meal  and  milk  and  mix.  Melt  butter  and  add  to 
mixture.  Pour  into  9-inch  unbaked  pie  shell  and  bake  in  moderate  (350°)  oven 
for  about  forty  minutes,  or  until  done. 

Mrs.  B.  C.  Reavis,  Durham,  N.  C. 


107 


EASY  COCOANUT  PIE 

1 cup  sugar  1  teasp.  vanilla 

2  eggs  ^  cup  milk 

1  cup  grated  cocoanut  3  tablesp.  melted  butter 

1  tablesp.  flour 

Add  flour  to  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then  edd  eggs.  Beat  until  fluffy.  Add 
milk,  vanilla,  cocoanut,  and  butter.  Pour  in  pie  shell.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
— 325  degrees.  Mrs.  Wiley  M.  Pickens 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD  PIE 

1  can  or  Yi  pkg.  dry  cocoanut  1  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablesp.  butter 

3  eggs  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  pour  in  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake  15  minutes  at 
450  degrees,  reduce  heat  to  350  degrees  and  continue  baking  20  to  30  minutes 
until  brown.  Mrs.  Roberta  Lynn 

SARAH  ELIZABETH'S  BROWN  SUGAR  TARTS 

1  lb.  package  brown  sugar  3  tablesp.  flour 

1  stick  oleo  3  tablesp.  milk 

3  eggs  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Mix  and  put  in  unbaked  crust  and  bake  at  350°.  This  will  make  24  tarts. 

Mrs.  Robert  Ruark 

FRENCH  APPLE  PIE 

Line  a  9-inch  pie  pan  with  pastry  and  chill  while  preparing  apples. 
6  cups  sliced  apples  1  teasp.  cinnamon 

14  cup  sugar  2  tablesp.  flour 

Mix  and  place  in  chilled  pie  pan. 

TOPPING 

Yi  cup  butter  34  cup  sifted  flour 

Yi  cup  brown  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  with  pastry  blender.  Work  in  flour  to  make  crumbs. 
Sprinkle  over  apples.  Bake  15  minutes  at  450  degrees.  Reduce  to  350  degrees  for 
20  to  30  minutes.  If  pie  browns  too  quickly  cover  with  paper  last  few  minutes. 
May  be  served  with  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  John  Prescott 


331  Fayetteville  St.  Phone  2-4426 

Compliments  of 

GUY  GIBBONS  ESSO  STATION 

623  Hillsboro  Street  Phone  7379 


108 


DARK  CORN  SYRUP  CUSTARD  PIE 

^2  cup  sugar  3  tablcsp.  flour 

2  eggs  beaten  J4  '^casp.  salt 

1  cup  dark  corn  syrup  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Yi  cup  milk  4  tablcsp.  melted  butter 

1  unbaked  pie  shell,  8  or  9  inches  in  diameter.  Mix  and  bake  as  pecan  pie. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Thomas 

GUAVA  JELLY  PIE 

3  egg  yolks  |/2  stick  melted  butter 
1  cup  sugar                                         3  egg  whites 

^2  ot  12  oz.  glass  of  jelly 
Mix  egg  yolks,  sugar,  jelly  and  butter  together.  Fold  in  well  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Cook  in  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Cook  slowly  for  45  minutes  or  until  filling 
is  firm.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Hitchings 

PUMPKIN  CHIFFON  TARTS  OR  PIE 

Beat:  3  egg  yolks  teasp.  salt 

^2  cup  sugar  ^/^  teasp.  cinnamon 

Add:         cups  mashed  pumpkin  Y2  teasp.  nutmeg 

(cooked  or  canned)  Yi  teasp.  ginger 

W  cup  milk 

Cook  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly.  Soften  1  tablespoon  gelatine  in  ^ 
cup  cold  water.  Add  to  pumpkin  mixture,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Beat  3  egg 
whites,  add  ^2  cup  sugar  gradually.  Fold  into  pumpkin  mixture.  Fill  pie  shells  or 
tart  shell  when  cool.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Moore 

JOHN  MARSHALL  CREAM  PIE 

1  cooked  pie  shell  J4  teasp.  salt 

14  pint  whipping  cream  2  tablesp.  sifted  flour 

grate  semi-sweet  chocolate  4  beaten  egg  yolks 

Filling:  1  cup  milk 

1  tablesp.  gelatine  (envelope)  1  teasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  4  egg  whites 

Mix  or  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  egg  yolks  and  milk.  Cook  until  thick  in 
double  boiler.  Cool  to  room  temperature.  Add  vanilla.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites  and  whipped  cream.  Pour  in  cooked  pastry  shell  and  cool  until 

firm.  Cover  with  slightly  sweetened  cream  and  sprinkle  grated  chocolate  on  top. 

Mrs.  Ed  Stevens 


Mitchell  Funeral  Home,  Inc. 

Funeral  Directors  —  Ambulance  Service 
TELEPHONE  8328 
Watch  for  opening  date  of  our  new  Funeral  Home  and  Chapel 


109 


PECAN  PIE 

Yi  cup  sugar  ^  teasp.  salt 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  teasp.  vanilla 

1  cup  dark  corn  syrup  1  unbaked  pie  shell  (8-inch 

cup  pecans  diameter) 

2  tablesp.  flour 

Blend  sugar  with  flour  and  salt.  Add  eggs,  syrup,  vanilla  and  pecans.  Pour  into 
pie  shell.  Bake  10  minutes  in  moderately  hot  oven,  (400  degrees).  Lower  heat 
to  moderately  slow,  (300  degrees)  and  bake  until  firm,  about  30  or  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Thomas 

COCONUT  CREAM  CHIFFON  PIE 

1  baked  pie  crust  ^  teasp.  salt 

1  tablesp.  gelatine  1  teasp.  vanilla 

J4  cup  cold  water  1  cup  scalded  milk 

3  eggs,  separated  2  cups  heavy  cicam,  whipped 
Yi  cup  sugar  %  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

Sprinkle  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Combine  egg  yolks,  sugar,  salt,  and  vanilla.  Add 
to  hot  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  coats  spoon.  Add  gelatine  to 
hot  mixture,  stir  until  dissolved.  Chill  until  syrupy.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites  and  one  cup  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  crust-line  pan  and  chill.  Top  pic 
with  remainder  of  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle  with  coconut. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Powers 

CHESS  PIE 

3  eggs  2  tablesp.  melted  butter 

1  Yi  cups  sugar  1  teasp.  nutmeg 

1  tablesp.  corn  meal  1  t^asp.  vanilla 
3  tablesp.  sweet  milk 

Beat  eggs,  add  other  ingredients  and  stir  well.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell  and 
bake  at  350°  about  40  minutes  or  until  knife  inserted  comes  out  clean. 

Mrs.  Dave  Griffis 

BROWN  SUGAR  PIE 

3  egg  yolks  (beaten)  ^3  cup  butter 

3  egg  whites  (stiff)  Yi  cup  milk 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Mix  ingredients  together,  folding  in  the  egg  whites  last.  Put  in  pie  shell,  bake 
30  minutes  or  until  the  filling  does  not  shake.  May  be  served  with  whipped  cream 
or  ice  cream.  Mrs.  T.  L.  Copley 


CHEROKEE  BRICK  COMPANY 

703  Commercial  Building 
Telephone  6324 
RALEIGH,  NORTH  CAROLINA 


110 


DILLON 
SUPPLY  COMPANY 

MACHINERY 
MILL  SUPPLIES 

RALEIGH  ROCKY  MOUNT 


DURHAM 


GOLDSBORO 


Serving  the  South  Since  1875! 

'Rhodes 

F  U  R  N  I  T  U  R  E 

Wilmington  Street  at  Martin 
"Your  Complete  Household  Furnishers'' 


JOHN  ASKEW 

Wallpaper,  Paint  and  Painters  Supplies 

110  Glenwood  Avenue 
Phone  6824  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


NESSELRODE  PIE 

1  baked  9-inch  pie  shell  pinch  salt 

1  tablesp.  plain  unflavored  J4  ^"P — P^"^  ^  tablesp.  granu- 
gelatine  lated  sugar 

cup  cold  water  1      teasp.  rum 

2  cups  light  cream  unsweetened  or  semi-sweet 
2  eggs,  separated  chocolate  shavings 

Make  easy  pastry.  Prepare  9-inch  pie  shell,  having  a  fluted  edge.  Chill  30 
minutes;  then  bake  450°  F.,  10  minutes,  or  until  brown.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold 
water  5  minutes.  Scald  cream  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Beat  egg  yolks  with  fork, 
then  stir  in  salt  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Add  scalded  cream  slowly  to  egg  yolks,  while 
stirring  constantly.  Return  mixture  to  double  boiler,  and  cook  over  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly,  until  smooth  and  slightly  thickened — about  5  minutes.  Re- 
move from  heat;  add  gelatine,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Pour  into  a  bowl  and 
chill  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  egg  whites  quite  stiff;  then  gradually  add 
remaining  6  tablespoons  sugar,  while  beating  until  stiff.  Fold  into  chilled  custard 
with  rum  flavoring.  Pour  into  pie  shell;  chill  until  set.  Just  before  serving,  shave 
a  square  of  chocolate  with  a  sharp,  straight-edged  knife,  sprinkle,  shavings  on  pie. 

Mrs.  O.  W.  Hooker 


COCONUT  CREAM  PIE 

2|/2  cups  milk        \  Vz  teasp.  salt 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablesp.  butter 

3  tablesp.  flour  (all  purpose)  1  cup  fresh  grated  coconut 

3  egg  yolks 

Scald  milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  to  the  scalded  milk.  Beat  yolks  and 
add  them.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Add  coconut  and  juice  of 
IfemiDn.  Pour  into  baked  pie  shell  and  cover  with  meringue.  Sprinkle  with  coconut 
and  brown  meringue. 

Meringue:  3  egg  whites  stiffly  beaten  with  6  tablespoons  sugar,  ^  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Mrs.  Marvin  Dunbar 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  PIE 

Roll  finely  22  graham  crackers.  Add  1  teaspoon  flour  and  Yi  cup  sugar.  Melt 
Vz  cup  butter,  add  to  this  mixture.  Don't  cook.  Line  a  pie  pan  with  above 
mixture  pressing  same  tightly  against  pan.  Reserve  ^  of  the  above  mixture  for 
top. 

FILLING 

Heat:  3  cups  milk      •  3  tablesp.  cornstarch 

Add:  Yz  cup  sugar  3  egg  yolks 

Beat  well  and  cook  until  desired  thickness.  Add  Yz  teasp.  vanilla.  Pour  into  crust. 

MERINGUE 

Beat  3  egg  whites  ^4  teasp.  cream  of  tartar 

Add  3  tablesp.  sugar 

Beat  until  stiff — ^but  not  dry.  Pile  lightly  on  filling  and  sprinkle  crumbs  on 
top.  Bake  in  slow  oven  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Baird 


113 


APPLE  TORTE 

24  cup  sifted  flour  3  tcasp.  vanilla 

3  teasp.  baking  powder  2  cups  diced  apples 

teasp.  salt  1  cup  chopped  walnuts  or 

2  eggs,  beaten  pecans 
U/2  cups  sugar 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add  sugar  and  vanilla  to  beaten 
egg.  Beat  well.  Add  dry  ingredients,  apples  and  nuts  to  liquid  mixture.  Mix  well 
and  bake  in  a  well  greased  8"  x  12"  x  4"  baking  dish  for  45  minutes  at  350°. 
Serve  with  a  scoop  of  vanilla  ice  cream  if  desired.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Hinton 

ANGEL  PIE 

cups  granulated  sugar  3  tablesp.  lemon  juice 

^  teasp.  cream  of  tartar  1  tablesp.  grated  lemon  rind 

4  egg  whites  ^  teasp.  salt 

3  tablesp.  shredded  coconut  (optional)   1  pt.  heavy  cream 

4  egg  yolks  strawberries 

While  oven  heats  to  275°  F.  sift  1  cup  sugar  with  ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 
Separate  4  eggs,  and  beat  whites  till  they  stand  in  stiff,  not  dry  peaks.  Then 
slowly  add  sugar,  beating.  When  meringue  makes  very  stiff,  glossy  peaks,  spread 
it  over  bottom,  up  sides  just  to  rim  of  well  greased  9-inch  pie  plate,  making 
bottom  ^  inch  thick,  sides  1  inch  thick.  Next  sprinkle  rim  with  2  tablespoons 
coconut.  After  baking  at  275°  F.  one  hour  (it  should  be  light  brown  and  crisp), 
cool.  Beat  4  egg  yolks  slightly  in  double-boiler  top,  then  stir  in  ^/^  cup  sugar,  3 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  grated  lemon  rind,  Ys  teaspoon  salt.  Cook 
these,  stirring,  over  boiling  water  until  thick,  about  8  to  10  minutes.  When 
mixture  cools,  whip  1  cup  cream,  then  fold  custard  into  it.  By  this  time,  the 
meringue  shell  with  its  coconut  ruff  should  be  cool  enough  to  fill.  Slowly  pour 
lemon-cream  mixture  into  center  of  meringue  and  spread.  Tuck  pic  into  refrig- 
erator, where  it  should  chill  at  least  12  hours — preferably  24  hours  before  garnish- 
ing. Top  pie  with  blobs  of  unsweetened  whipped  cream  ( 1  cup)  and  sprinkles  of 
coconut  which  toasted  while  meringue  baked.  Strawberries  on  top  of  pie  lend 
a  party  touch.  This  is  very  good  to  serve  for  desert  bridge. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Woodcock 

BUTTERSCOTCH  TARTS 

2  eggs  separated  IY2  ^^p^  ^^il^ 

1  cup  brown  sugar  4  tablesp.  butter  or  oleo 

Ys  teasp.  salt  1  teasp.  vanilla 

4  tablesp.  flour  4  tablesp.  granulated  sugar 

Combine  beaten  egg  yolks,  brown  sugar,  salt,  flour,  milk,  and  butter  in  double 
boiler.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Cover  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Cool,  add  vanilla,  and  pour  in  baked  pastry  shells.  Cover  with 
meringue,  made  from  beaten  egg  whites,  adding  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  bake 
in  slow  oven  until  meringue  is  brown.  Mrs.  Sam  Ruark 


Your  TOTAL  Food  Bill  Is  Less 
When  You  Shop  CS 
SAVE  MORE  ON  QUALITY  FOODS 

AT  YOUR  FRIENDLY 

COLONIAL  STORES 


114 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

2  cups  milk  Ys  tcasp.  salt 

to  1  cup  sugar  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

cup  flour  3  eggs 

J4  teasp.  vanilla 

Heat  milk  to  scalding  point  in  double  boiler.  Blend  sugar,  flour,  and  salt.  Add 
to  milk  and  stir  until  smooth  and  thick.  Add  melted  chocolate.  Cover  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Separate  eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  add  thick  sauce  to  beaten  egg  yolks 
gradually,  stirring  until  smooth.  Return  mixture  to  double  boiler  and  cook  5 
minutes.  Add  vanilla  and  cool.  Put  in  baked  pastry  shell.  Beat  egg  whites,  adding 
6  tablespoons  sugar — beating  until  whites  will  form  peaks.  Top  pie  with  meringue 
and  brown  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Sam  Ruark 

CHOCOLATE  CHIFFON  PIE 

2  1-oz.  sqs.  unsweetened  ^/^  cup  sugar 

chocolate,  grated  /4  t^^sp.  salt 

cup  boiling  water  1  teasp.  vanilla  extract 

1  tablesp.  unflavored  gelatine  ^"P  sugar 

cup  cold  water  4  stiflly-beaten  egg  whites 

4  egg  yolks  1  9-inch  baked  shell 

Melt  chocolate  in  boiling  water;  add  gelatine,  softened  in  cold  water;  stir  until 
dissolved.  Add  egg  yolks,  beaten  light  with  cup  sugar.  Add  salt,  vanilla 
extract;  cool.  Beat  remaining  cup  sugar  into  egg  whites.  Fold  into  chocolate 
mixtures;  pour  into  baked  shell.  Chill  until  firm.  Spread  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Fred  Habel 


WAKE  TIRE  COMPANY 

(Clark  Savage) 

Every  Facility  for  Every  Tire  Service 

118  West  Davie  St.  Tel.  3-3064 


115 


CHERRY  PIE  (9-inch) 

2  %  cups  canned  sour  cherries,  1  tbsp.  butter 

drained  (save  juice  for  liquid)  4  tbsp.  flour 

%  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  juice 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  and  sprinkle  Vz  of  it  over  the  uncooked  bottom  crust. 
Add  cherries,  sprinkling  remaining  sugar  and  flour  through  them.  Dot  with 
butter.  Add  juice.  Cover  with  top  crust.  Bake  15  minutes  at  450  degrees,  reduce 
temperature  to  350  and  bake  about  15  more  minutes  or  until  nicely  browned. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

BLACKBERRY  OR  BLUEBERRY  PIE 

Canned  blackberry  or  blueberry  pie  is  made  the  same  as  canned  cherry  pie 
except  reduce  sugar  to      cup  and  add  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  to  blueberries. 

FRESH  CHERRY  PIE  (9-inch) 

4  cups  washed  pitted  sour  1  ^3  cups  sugar  mixed  with 

cherries  5  tbsp.  flour 

1  tbsp.  butter 

Fill  pastry-lined  pan  with  cherries,  sprinkling  them  with  flour  and  sugar  mix- 
ture. Dot  with  butter.  Cover  with  lattice  top.  Bake  10  minutes  at  450  then  30 
minutes  at  350. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

FRESH  BLACKBERRY  OR  BLUEBERRY  PIE 
(Frozen  berries  may  be  used  but  if  frozen  with  syrup  reduce  sugar  to  taste) 

Make  same  as  fresh  cherry  pie  except  use  1  cup  sugar  for  blackberries.  For 
blueberries  use  %  cup  sugar  and  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 

MINCE  PIE  (9-inch) 

To  a  2  lb.  jar  of  mincemeat  add  enough  peeled,  cored  and  chopped  apple  and 
orange  juice  or  other  liquid  to  make  4  cups.  Fill  pastry-lined  pan.  Dot  with 
butter.  Cover  with  top  crust.  Bake  10  minutes  at  450  degrees  then  reduce 
temperature  to  350  and  make  about  20  minutes  or  until  nicely  browned. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 


Blend  Well  Into  Your  Home 
CARPETS  —  SHADES 

PICTURES  —  VENETIAN  BLINDS 

jrom 

CLARK  ART  SHOP,  Inc. 

300  Glenwood  Ave.     Raleigh,  N.  C.     Dial  8319 


116 


CANDIES 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablcsp.  Karo  syrup  (dark) 

6  tablesp.  cocoa  3  tablesp.  butter 

1  cup  Pet  milk  1  tcasp.  vanilla 
dash  of  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa  thoroughly.  Add  milk  gradually  then  add  syrup  and  butter 
and  salt.  When  dropped  in  cool  water  must  form  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from  heat 
and  add  vanilla,  let  cool  until  you  can  hold  hand  on  bottom  of  pot.  Then  beat 
and  add  nuts.  Beat  until  mixture  begins  to  harden.  Pour  in  buttered  pan. 

Mrs.  Alice  C.  Foster 

OLD  FASHIONED  TAFFY 

2  cups  molasses  2  tablesp.  butter 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablesp.  vinegar 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  heavy  kettle  and  cook  to  soft  ball  stage.  Turn  into 
buttered  pan  or  dish,  when  cool  pull  with  buttered  fingers  until  light  colored. 
Cut  in  pieces  with  scissors. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Wells 

PEANUT  BRITTLE  CANDY 

1  cup  sugar  ^"P  water 
^2  cup  white  Karo  syrup 

Bring  to  good  boil  and  add  2  cups  raw  peanuts.  Stir  and  cook  until  peanuts  stop 
popping  or  until  peanuts  look  golden  brown.  Set  off  and  add  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Pour  on  greased  baking  sheet  to  cool,  then  break  in  pieces. 

Mrs.  S.  B.  Gaskill 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar  2  tablesp.  Karo  syrup 
pinch  salt  %  cup  milk 

2  squares  baking  chocolate  1  tablesp.  butter 

1  cup  of  nuts  1  teasp.  vanilla 

Place  over  hot  burner,  stir  constantly  until  mixture  will  form  a  firm  ball  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  stove  while  testing.  Place  pan  in  container  of  water,  add 
butter;  allow  to  cool,  add  nuts  and  vanilla;  beat  until  it  fudges.  Pour  into  greas- 
ed pan,  cut  into  squares. 

Mrs.  E.  I.  Terry 


117 


CARNATION  VELVET  FUDGE 

3  cups  sugar  teasp.  salt 

2  tablesp.  com  syrup  1  cup  Carnation  milk 

3  loz.  squares  bitter  chocolate  3  tablesp.  butter 
shaved  1  cup  nuts  chopped 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  butter  and  nuts.  Boil  until  syrup  reaches  238°  F.  or 
until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  small  amount  is  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove 
from  heat,  add  butter.  Cool  until  lukewarm,  beat  until  creamy,  add  nuts.  Pour 
into  buttered  pan.  Cut  into  squares. 

VELVET  NUGGETS 

Continue  beating  till  fudge  loses  its  gloss.  Mold  into  small  balls  and  roll  in 
coconut. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Howell 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  square  or  2  oz.  unsweetened 

1  cup  white  sugar  chocolate 

%  cup  milk  3  tablesp.  butter 

1  teasp.  vanilla  1  cup  black  walnuts 

2  tablesp.  light  corn  syrup 

Place  sugar,  syrup,  milk  and  chocolate  (chopped)  in  pan  and  cook  slowly,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  mixture  boils.  Cook  to  232°.  Remove  from  heat  and  add 
melted  butter  without  stirring.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts  last. 
Pour  into  greased  platter.  Will  keep  in  tin  cans  for  weeks. 

Mrs.  Bernard  Crocker,  Jr. 

SPICED  NUTS 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablesp.  cinnamon 

1  tablesp.  vanilla  5  teasp.  water 

Mix  and  boil  5  minutes.  Add  2  cups  nuts  and  stir  until  all  liquid  is  taken  up. 

Note:  Soak  pecans  in  boiling  water  30  minutes  before  shelling.  They  will  remain 

in  halves. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Wells 

MINTS 

2  cups  granulated  Scant  %  cup  butter 

sugar  Yz  cup  water 

Combine  above  ingredients  and  cook  260  degrees.  Pour  on  greased  marble 
slab  on  seven  drops  of  peppermint  and  coloring.  When  cool  enough  to  handle, 
pull  and  cut  into  desired  size  with  scissors. 

Mrs.  I.  G.  Tuttle 


FIVE  POINTS  VARIETY  STORE 

Arch  Newbold,  Owner 


118 


PICKLE  AND 
CONSERVE 


FRESH  CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

6  lbs.  cucumbers  3  lbs.  sugar 

2  qts,  vinegar  spices  to  taste 

3  tablesp.  alum  1  cup  lime 

Wash  and  cut  cucumbers  in  rings.  Soak  over  night  in  lime  water.  Soak  6  hours 
in  strong  salt  water.  Soak  1  hour  in  clear  water.  Boil  1  hour  in  alum  water.  Wash 
good  in  hot  water  and  put  in  boiling  syrup  until  cucumbers  are  clear  and 
transparent.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Wells 

BREAD  &  BUTTER  PICKLE 

1  gallon  cucumbers  5  cups  vinegar 

8  small  white  onions  1  Yi  teasp.  tumeric 

y2  cup  coarse  salt  Vz  teasp.  ground  cloves 

cracked   ice  2  teasp.  mustard  seed 

5  cups  sugar  2  teasp.  celery  seed 

Slice  cucumbers  thin.  Add  onion  sliced  lengthwise.  Add  salt;  cover  with  cracked 

ice  and  mix  well.  Let  stand  three  hours.  Drain.  Combine  remaining  ingredients; 

pour  over  cucumber  mixture.  Bring  lo  boiling;  place  in  hot,  sterilized  jars. 

Makes  8  pints.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Brogdon 

SWEET  PICKLE  PEACHES 

To  7  lbs.  of  fruit  allow  3%  lbs.  of  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  kettle  with  1  pint 
of  vinegar  and  2  ounces  each  of  cloves  and  allspice.  Pare  the  peaches  and  stick 
three  or  four  whole  cloves  into  them  at  intervals.  Place  a  few  at  the  time  in  the 
boiling  syrup  and  cook  until  they  look  clear,  but  not  so  soft  as  to  fall  apart.  When 
all  are  cooked,  continue  to  boil  the  syrup  until  it  is  reduced  nearly  one-half, 
then  pour  over  the  peaches  and  pack  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Mann 


PEAR  CONSERVE 

3  doz.  large  pears  3  large  oranges 

1  No.  214  can  crushed  pine-  %  cup  sugar  to  each  cup  pulp 

apple 

Peel  and  grind  pears  and  grind  oranges.  Add  pineapple  and  sugar  and  let  simmer 
for  quite  a  while.  Then  add  1  medium  bottle  of  red  maraschino  cherries  cut  fine. 
(Cherries  are  optional)  This  can  be  canned  in  sterilized  jars  or  stored  in 
refrigerator  for  some  time.  Mrs.  B.  C.  Reavis 


119 


WATERMELON  RIND  SWEET  PICKLE 

Soak  12  or  15  pounds  rind  in  water  enough  to  cover  with  1  tablespoon  lime  to 
each  quart  of  water-over-night.  Rinse,  boil  2  hours  in  water  to  cover  and  to 
each  gallon  of  water  used,  add  1  box  whole  ginger.  Drain,  make  syrup  of  8 
pounds  sugar  to  8  pounds  rind  (or  one  pound  for  pound)  to  8  pounds  sugar 
use  2  cups  water,  4  cups  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  whole  allspice,  1  tablespoon  whole 
cloves  (put  spices  in  tag) .  Boil  until  tender  and  syrup  is  consistency  of  honey. 
Put  in  jars  and  seal.  Few  sticks  whole  cinnamon  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Mann 


CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 

2  cups  sugar  /4  ^^^P  pineapple  preserves 
1  cup  water                                       juice  and  peel  of  2  lemons 

4  cups  (1  lb.)  fresh  cranberries  1  cup  blanched  almonds 
Combine  sugar  and  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  about  five  minutes.  Add 
cranberries  and  cook  five  minutes  more.  Stir  in  lemon  juice,  peel  and  pineapple 
preserves.  Add  almonds  and  cool, 

Mrs.  Alton  P.  Tripp 

PEAR  CONSERVE 

5  lbs.  pears,  ground  5  lbs.  sugar 

1  lb.  raisins,  ground  2  oranges,  ground 

1  lb.  pecans,  chopped  coarsely  juice  of  3  lemons 

Cover  pears  with  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  Add  raisins,  oranges  and  lemon 
juice  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all  the  time.  Remove  and  add  pecans.  Seal  in 
jars. 

SWEET  PICKLED  ORANGE  PEEL 

Cut  in  pieces  1*/^  pounds  orange  peel;  cover  with  water.  Cook  15  minutes. 
Drain.  Boil  together  4  cups  sugar,  2  cups  vinegar  and  2  tablespoons  pickling 
spices  for  5  minutes.  Add  peel.  Cook,  stirring  occasionally,  1^  hours.  Makes 
3  pints.  Mrs.  Stanley  B.  Allen 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

3  oranges  1 1  cups  cold  water 
1  lemon  4  lbs.  sugar 

Wash  and  quarter  fruit;  remove  seeds  and  put  through  food  chopper.  Put  in 
10  or  12  quart  preserving  kettle,  add  water,  cover,  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Heat 
to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  V/z  hours.  Add  sugar  and  let  stand  24  hours. 
Again  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Repeat  until  desired  con- 
sistancy  is  reached.  Pour  into  sterile  glasses;  let  stand  covered  with  cloth  until 
firm,  then  cover  with  melted  paraffine.  Continued  boiling  at  one  time  after 
sugar  is  added  makes  dark  marmalade. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Caviness 


HARMON  MOTOR  COMPANY,  Inc. 

Post  Office  Box  728  —  Telephone  3-3648 
515  Fayetteville  St.  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


120 


CRYSTAUZED  PICKLE  SLICES 

3  sour  dill  pickles  2  tcasp.  celery  seed 

2  cups  sugar 

Cut  pickles  in  thin  slices  and  mix  with  sugar  and  celery  seed.  Leave  set  over 
night  and  don't  add  water.  Mrs,  James  R.  Welday 

DIXIE  RELISH 

1  qt.  ground  cabbage  1  pt.  sweet  red  peppers  (both 

1  pt.  ground  onion  ground) 

1  pt.  sweet  green  peppers 
14  cup  salt  sprinkled  over  and  let  stand  for  four  hours.  Then  squeeze  in  bag  to 
get  juice  out.  In  a  good  sized  kettle  put  4  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons 
celery  seed,  1  quart  vinegar,  pounds  granulated  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
tablespoon  allspice,  (unground)  1  tablespoon  cloves  unground,  1  stick  cinnamon. 
Boil  mixture  10  minutes.  Seal  while  hot.  Mrs.  O.  W.  Hooker 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

Rind  of  one  medium  size  melon  (cut  in  small  pieces) 

1  tube  Lilly's  lime  1  box  white  rust  ginger 

1  qt.  white  vinegar  1  box  cloves 

5  lbs.  sugar  1  box  whole  allspice 

Soak  rind  in  lime  water  over  night  (cover  well) .  Next  morning  drain  and  cover 
again  with  cold  water.  Let  stand  1  hour.  Cover  again  with  cold  water.  Put  ginger 
in  bag  and  boil  1*4  hours.  Make  syrup  with  sugar  and  vinegar — add  spices  in 
bag  and  when  it  comes  to  boiling  point,  add  melon  rind,  cook  imtil  tender  and 
clear  (about  1  hour).  Mrs.  O.  W.  Dowd 


COMPLIMENTS 
of 

EATMON  BROS. 

SERVICE  STATION  EQUIPMENT 
INSTALLATION 

Phone  2-3081  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


121 


WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

7  lbs.  rind  ^4  teasp.  oil  cloves 

7  cups  sugar  teasp.  oil  cinnamon 

1  pt.  vinegar 

Cut  all  red  off  rind  and  peel.  Cut  in  serving  size  pieces.  Cover  with  water  and 
boil  till  tender.  Drain  well.  Make  syrup  of  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  Put  rind 
in  crockery  bowl  and  pour  hot  syrup  over  it.  Let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning 
drain  off  juice  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Again  pour  it  over  rind  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Next  morning  bring  both  rind  and  juice  to  a  boil  and  pack  in  hot  jars. 

Mrs.  Fred  Habel 

PEAR  MINCE  MEAT 

1   pk.  pears — not  peeled  but  2  teasp.  cloves 

cored  and  ground  coarsely.  2  teasp.  cinnamon 

Add:   1/2  cups  vinegar  2  teasp.  allspice 

4  lbs.  sugar  2  lbs.  seedless  raisins 

Cook  slowly  114  hours.  Makes  16  or  17  pints.  Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 

Heaping  quart  berries  after  capped— 4  cups  sugar.  Bring  to  boil  and  cook  20 
minutes.  Put  in  bowls  and  let  stand  36  hours.  Stir  2  or  3  times  each  day. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 

CANNED  NUTS 

Bake  2  hours  in  oven  150°.  Screw  lids  tight  before  packing. 

Mrs.  Sam  Wayburn 


CAROLINA 
BUILDERS  CORPORATION 

PHONE  7563 

BUILDERS  SUPPUES  —  SINCE  1922 


217  N.  Dawson  St.  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


122 


MENUS 

and 
HINTS 


Asparagus  pimento 
Salad  Biscuits 


LUNCHEON  MENU 

Crab  Mornay 

Cucumber  Salad 


Pota 


Biscuit  Tortoni 
Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 


Stuffed  Lettuce 


LUNCHEON  MENU 

Chicken  Avocoda  Supreme  on  Pimento  Rice 
Peas  and  Mushrooms  Royal 


French  Dressing 
Herb  Biscuits 
Cream  Puffs 


Ripe  Olives 
Mrs.  J.  L.  Bogle 


LUNCHEON  MENU 

Chicken  Tetrazzini 
^Grapefruit  Salad 
Lemon  Sherbet 
■'Grapefruit  sections  on  lettuce  with  French  dressing. 


Mrs.  A.  J.  Watt5 


MENU 

Goulash 
Cabbage  Slaw 
Rolls  and  Butter 
Orange  Ginger  Dessert 
Coffee 


MENU 

Swiss  Steak 
Baked  Potatoes 
Green  Beans  and  Corn 
Raised  Rolls  and  Butter 
Apple  and  Cherry  Pie 

ORANGE  GINGER  DESSERT 

2  pkg.  orange  gelatine  1 14  cups  gingersnap  crumbs 

4  cups  hot  water  1  14'/4  oz.  can  (\y^  cups) 

1     tablesp.  grated  orange  rind  evaporated  milk 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  4  cups  hot  water  according  to  directions  on  package;  chill 
until  syrupy.  Add  grated  orange  rind  (be  sure  not  to  grate  into  white  portion) ; 
mix.  Spread  half  of  crumbs  in  bottom  of  2"  x  8"  square  pans.  Whip  gelatine  until 
light.  Chill  milk  in  refrigerator  tray  until  mushy;  whip;  fold  into  gelatine 
mixture.  Pour  into  pans,  dividing  equally.  Spread  remaining  crumbs  on  top; 
chill  until  firm.  Serves  20. 

123 


MENU 

This  is  the  Men's  Club  Special — nothing  fancy,  but  "a  real  meal." 
Chilled  Tomato  Juice 
Tamale  Pie 

Celery  Dill  Pickles  Carrot  Sticks 

Fruit  Compote 
Cookies 

TAMALE  PIE 

6  cups  chopped  onions  1/2  cup  chopped  parsley 

1  cup  meat  drippings  6  tablesp.  chili  powder 

6  lbs.  ground  beef  salt  and  pepper 

6  lbs.  ground  pork  6  qts.  warm  corn  meal  mush 

4  qts.  cooked  or  canned 

tomatoes 

Saute  onion  in  meat  drippings;  remove  onion.  Increase  heat,  brown  beef  and 
pork;  return  onion  to  mixture.  Add  tomatoes,  parsley,  chili  powder,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  simmer  20  minutes.  Line  2  12"  x  18"  x  lYj"  pans  with  warm 
corn  meal  mush;  pour  in  meat  mixture;  top  with  more  mush;  bake  in  moderate 
oven,  375°,  1  hour.  Serves  50. 

LUNCHEON  PLATE 

Potato  baskets  filled  with  chicken,  tuna  or  other  salad.  Tomato  aspic  salad.  Green 
pepper  ring  filled  with  cream  cheese  filling.  1  sliced  crabapple.  Date  nut  bread 
sandwich  (thin  slices  filled  with  nuts,  cream  cheese  spread  sweetened  with 
powdered  sugar). 

POTATO  BASKETS 

Grate  white  potatoes  coarsely;  squeeze  excess  water  from  them  with  hand.  Line 
small  wire  tea  strainer  with  small  amount  of  grated  potatoes.  Immerse  in  deep 
fat  and  fry  until  brown.  Turn  onto  paper  to  drain  and  salt. 

Mrs.  John  E.  Treadwell 


Compliments 

CAROLINA  CLEANERS 

"DEPENDABLE  SERVICE" 

Dial  8871     116  Harrison  Ave.    Dial  8872 


Compliments  of 

NATIONAL  INSURANCE  CO. 

George  E.  Passmore 
Tel.  2-3955      903-905  Capital  Club  BIdg 


124 


COOKING  HINTS 

In  cooking  vegetables,  cover  those  that  grow  under  the  ground,  as  onions, 
potatoes,  etc.,  and  leave  uncovered  all  vegetables  that  grow  above  the  ground. 

Put  lemons  in  hot  water  for  several  minutes  before  squeezing  and  they  will 
yield  more  juice. 

To  prevent  juices  from  berry  pies  from  running  over  in  oven,  stick  a  few 
pieces  of  large  macaroni  through  the  center  of  the  top  crust. 

To  remove  odor  from  frying  pan  after  frying  fish,  fill  pan  with  vinegar  and  let 
come  to  a  boil. 

In  buying  fish,  look  for  smooth  moist  skin,  firm  fresh  odor,  full  bright  eyes 
and  gills,  firm  fins  and  tail. 

To  make  tough  meat  tender  soak  in  strong  vinegar  water. 

Almost  any  cream  will  whip  readily  if  the  white  of  an  egg  is  added  to  it  and 
if  it  is  then  chilled. 

To  make  sour  cream  sweet,  add  slight  pinches  of  soda  and  stir  until  cream 
taste  sweet,  and  does  not  curdle  when  poured  into  hot  water. 

To  make  sweet  cream  sour,  add  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  to  each  cup  of  cream. 

If  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  are  added  to  the  \\'ater  in  which  eggs  are  to  be 
poached,  they  will  hold  together  and  the  white  will  not  separate  in  the  water. 

Eggs  can  be  prevented  from  spreading  while  poaching  if  boiling  water  is  stirred 
and  egg  is  dropped  in  the  middle  of  the  whirl. 

To  cut  new  bread  easily,  heat  the  knife  blade  until  hot,  it  will  cut  the  freshest 
bread  in  smooth  slices. 

To  warm  biscuits,  muffins  and  rolls,  sprinkle  lightly  with  water,  place  pan  con- 
taining them  in  warm  water  and  place  in  oven  a  few  minutes. 


HELPFUL  HINTS 

Mrs.  F.  P.  Barnes 

To  remove  the  odor  from  knife  used  in  peeling  onions,  pass  the  blade  through 
a  raw  potato,  then  rinse  in  water. 

To  freshen  rolls,  place  rolls  in  a  covered  glass  baking  dish.  Heat  in  slow  oven 
300°  for  20  minutes.  Rolls  may  also  be  reheated  in  top  of  double  boiler,  set  over 
boiling  water.  Cover,  simmer  10  minutes  or  until  well  heated. 

If  you  don't  have  a  tube  cake  pan,  you  can  make  a  hollow  center  fruitcake 
by  inverting  a  small  glass  in  the  center  of  a  round  casserole  or  baking  dish. 


125 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Amounts  Required  For  Serving  50  Plates 

2^/4  loaves  of  pullman  bread  for  sandwiches 

5  chickens  for  salad 

7  bunches  of  celery  for  salad 

3  heads  lettuce  for  serving  salad 

2  pounds  crackers 

1  quart  cream  for  coffee 

^Yz  gallons  of  brick  ice  cream 

2/4  gallons  of  ice  cream  in  bulk 

3  small  or  2  large  layer  cakes 

1^  pounds  shelled  almonds,  salted 

3  pounds  of  mints 

3  pints  of  olives 

1  pound  of  good  coffee 


OTHER  SERVINGS 

1  large  hen  baked  serves  8  persons 

1  hen  made  into  salad  serves  15  persons 

1  hen  made  into  pressed  chicken  serves  18  persons 

1  gallon  punch  serves  30  persons 

1  can  peas  serves  10  or  12  patty  cases 

1  gallon  strong  tea  serves  30  persons 

1  12  lb.  ham  baked  serves  40  persons 

1  quart  of  coffee  pours  6  cups 

15  pounds  of  roast  beef  serves  50  persons 

For  apple  sauce  for  40,  use  15  pounds  of  apples  and  5  to  7  cups  of  sugar,  de- 
pending upon  the  tartness  of  the  apples.  Cinnamon  and  nutmeg  may  be  added 
to  the  sauce  when  cooked  if  you  wish. 


GET  IN  THE 
MELVILLE  GOOD  HEALTH  HABIT! 

Use  MELVILLE  MILK  Daily 

Cook  with  it!  Bake  with  it!  Serve  it  straight! 
PHONE  2-0351  Raleigh,  N.  C. 


126 


Table  of  Weights 
and  Measures 

A  few  grains  =  less  than  Ys  teaspoon 
1  tablespoon  =  3  teaspoons 
4  tablespoons  =  cup 
Yi  cup  =  1  gill 

tablespoons  =  Ys  cup 
8  tablespoons  =  Yi  cup 
16  tablespoons  =  1  cup 

1  cup  =  Yz  pint 

2  cups  =  1  pint  or  1  pound 
2  pints  =  1  quart  or  2  pounds 

4  quarts  =  1  gallon  or  8  pounds 

8  quarts  =  1  peck 

4  pecks       1  bushel 

16  ounces  =:  1  pound 

1  fluid  ounce  =  2  tablespoons 

16  fluid  ounces  =  1  pint  (2  cups) 

Yi  cup  butter  —  Yi  pound 

lYs  tablespoons  cocoa      j        equivalent  to 

Yz  tablespoon  of  butter    I        1  ounce  of  chocolate 


aUANCED 
/^HAPPINESS 


127 


UNIVERSITY  OF  N.C.  AT  CHAPEL  HILL 

00030715753 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


28957 


