UNIVERSITY  OF 

ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 

AT  URBAN/   CHAMPAIGN 

OAK  oTREET 

LIBRA! .    ft' CILITY 


k 


Hi     #-nniirn  nnnv 


cunD 


The  College  Woman's 
cook'book 


First  Edition 


The  compiling  and  publishing 
^  ^  _  of  this  book  of  recipes  has 
been  the  work  of  a  group  of  college 
women,  living  in  and  near  Evan- 
ston,  111.,  most  of  whom  are  grad- 
uates of  Northwestern  University. 

A  portion  of  the  profit  accru- 

^ ing   from   the   publishing   of 

this  cook-book  is  to  be  given  each 
year  for  the  support  of  a  summer 
camp  in  Michigan,  where  unfortu- 
nate kiddies  from  the  cities  are 
given  a  real  vacation. 


Over  2,500  college  women, 
_  _  most  of  them  housewives, 
were  asked  for  their  best  tested 
recipes.  From  those  submitted, 
500  of  the  best  and  most  unusual 
have  been  selected  and  published 
in  this  handy  volume.  By  follow- 
ing the  names  under  each  recipe,  it 
will  be  observed  that  leading  col- 
leges in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  Canada  are  represented. 

Published  by 


THE  COLLEGE  WOMAN'S 
COOK-BOOK  ASSOCIATION 

911  REBA  PLACE  EVANSTON,  ILLINOIS,  U.S. A. 


^??3 


Swi" 


INDEX    TO    RECIPES 

Bread,  Biscuits  and  Rolls Pages  3  to  1 1 

Soups "  12  to  14 

Fish  and  Meats "  1 5  to  25 

Eggs  and  Cheese "  26  to  29 

Vegetables "  30  to  37 

Salads  and  Dressings "  38  to  47 

Sandwiches  and  Fillings , "  48  to  52 

Desserts "  53  to  64 

Pies  and  Fillings "  65  to  67 

Cakes,  Fillings  and  Frostings "  68  to  77 

Cookies  and  Doughnuts "  78  to  84 

Confectionery "  85  to  90 

Pickles  and  Sauces "  91  to  93 

Marmalades. "  94  to  96 

MEASUREMENTS 

All  measurements  for  all  materials  called  for  in  the  recipes  in  this 
book  are  level.  The  standard  measuring  cup  holds  one-half  pint 
and  is  divided  into  fourths  and  thirds.  To  make  level  measurements 
fill  cup  or  spoon  and  scrape  off  excess  with  back  of  knife.  One-half 
spoon  is  measured  lengthwise  of  spoon. 

TABLE  OF  MEASURES 

1  saltspoon  =  34  teaspoon 

3  teaspoons  =  1  tablespoon 
16  tablespoons  =  1  cup 

2  cups  =  1  pint 

2  pints  =  1  quart 

4  cups  =  1  quart 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  =  1  pound 

4  cups  flour  =  1  pound 

2  cups  butter  =  1  pound 

2  tablespoons  butter  =  1  ounce 

2  tablespoons  liquid  =  1  ounce 

4  tablespoons  flour  =  1  ounce 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate  =  1  ounce 

3]/^  tablespoons  cocoa  =  1  ounce 


Copyright  1923,  by 

College  Woman's  Cook-Book  Association 
evanston,  illinois 


Printed  in  U.  S.  A. 


"Breads  'Biscuits  &  T^I/s 

WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

}i  teaspoon  salt  1  ^  cups  milk 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt;  add  milk  to  slightly 
beaten  egg  yolks.  Mix  well  and  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Add  melted 
shortening  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

Evelyn  Leander,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  eggs  2  cups  flour 

2>^  teaspoons  baking  powder     2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  milk  Butter,  size  of  walnut 

Pinch  of  salt 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.    Beat  eggs,  add  milk,  stir  slowly  into 
first  mixture.    Beat  batter  until  perfectly  smooth;  stir  in  salt  and 
melted  butter.    No  grease  with  aluminum  griddle.    This  recipe  is 
for  about  four  or  five  people. 

Helen  Hoyt,  Los  Angeles,  ^Cal. 
University  of  California. 

GRAHAM  PANCAKES 

1  cup  white  flour  1  cup  graham  flour 

Level  teaspoon  salt  1 K  cups  milk 

Heaping  teaspoon  baking  1  teaspoon  sugar 

powder  1  egg 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  add  milk,  sugar  and  well-beaten 
egg.  Fry  like  ordinary  pancakes  on  hot  greased  griddle.  This 
serves  three. 

Bemice  Woehler  Taylor,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

POP  OVERS 

1  cup  flour  }4  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  melted  butter  or  fat 
Mix  salt  and  flour;  add  eggs  and  milk  gradually.    Beat  with  egg 
beater  and  turn  into  hot  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 
Note:    Have  oven  very  hot  for  first  fifteen  minutes,  then  reduce 
heat  and  continue  baking  about  thirty  minutes.    Makes  one  dozen. 

Charlotte  Carpenter,  Oakland,  Cal. 
University  of  California. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  MUFFINS 

1  cup  entire  wheat  flour  1  cup  flour 

)4  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  1  egg 

3  tablesp>oons  melted  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
shortening 

Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  milk  gradually,  egg  well-beaten  and 
butter;  bake  in  hot  oven  in  buttered  muffin  tins  about  twenty 


minutes. 


Helen  FauU,  Alameda,  Cal. 
University  of  California. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 


GRAHAM  NUT  MUFFINS 

1  cup  graham  flour  2  cups  wheat  flour 

1  teasp>oon  salt  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

2  cups  sour  milk 
Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  butter,  nuts  and  sugar.    Beat  in  two 
cups  sour  milk.    Grease  and  flour  pans.    Bake  in  moderate  oven 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Mary  Fetzer  White,  Ottumwa,  la. 
Northwestern  University. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS 

Set  latfe  the  night  before,  for  breakfast  next  morning,  one  cake 
Fleischmann's  yeast,  dissolved  in  three-quarters  cup  lukewarm 
water,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  and  water,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  flour  for  stiff  batter  (about  four 
cups).  Mix  butter,  sugar,  salt,  egg,  milk,  yeast,  water  and  flour. 
Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drop  from  spoon  in  ungreased 
muffin  tins  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.    Makes  20. 

Helena  Olesen,  Humboldt,  Iowa. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

BRAN  GEMS 

Sift  together: 

1  cup  bran  5^  cup  whole  wheat  flour 

2  level  teaspoons  baking  Pinch  of  salt 
powder  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Beat  one  egg  with  one-half  cup  sweet  milk  and  a  teaspoon  of  melted 
butter  and  stir  into  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans 
in  moderate  oven. 

Mildred  Brown,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 
Coe  College. 

DATE  MUFFINS 

yi  cup  butter  ]4  cup  sugar 

1  egg  2  cups  pastry  flour 

^  cup  milk  3    level    teaspoons    baking 

}4  teaspoon  salt  powder 

Scant  ^2  pound  dates  cut  rather  fine 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  egg  beaten  light;  sift  flour,  salt  and 
baking  powder  three  times.  Add  these  to  mixture  alternately  with 
the  milk.  Beat  thoroughly  and  then  add  dates.  Put  in  well-buttered 
muffin  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Makes 
twelve  muffins. 

Lillian  Wilson  Vogt,  Chicago,  III. 
University  of  Illinois. 

CORNMEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  commeal 

2  tablespoons  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
yi  teaspoon  salt  I  egg 

1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  melted  fat 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  milk,  fat  and  combine 
with  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tin  in  moderate  oven 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 

Blanche  Bobbitt,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 
University  of  California. 


COLLEGE    WO  MANS    COOK    BOOK 


OATiMEAL  MUFFINS 

1  cup  milk  Yi  cup  rolled  oats 

1  egg  yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  yi  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder        2  tablespoons  melted  fat 
Scald  milk  and  pour  over  rolled  oats;  cool  and  add  well-beaten  egg, 
then  salt,  flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder  sifted  together,  and  lastly 
melted  fat.    Beat  well,  place  in  muffin  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
ovei?.   Makes  twelve  muffins. 

Lois  Denman  Stubblefield,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

ROCK  BUNS 

2  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
yi  teaspoon  salt                           6  tablespoons  sugar 

yi  teaspoon  ginger  3  tablespoons  butter 

3  tablespoons  lard  yi  cup  currants 

1  egg  yi  cup  milk 

Nutmeg 
Mix  as  for  baking  powder  biscuits. 

M.  Carrol  Gumm,  Marseilles,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 
CREAM  SCONES 

2  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  p>owder 

3  teaspoons  sugar  yi  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  three  times.  Rub  in  four  rounding  tablespoons  butter  with 
tips  of  fingers.  Add  two  eggs  beaten  (reserving  small  amount  of 
unbeaten  white)  with  one-third  cup  sweet  milk.  Toss,  on  floured 
board  and  pat  to  one-half  inch  thickness.  Brush  over  with  egg 
white;  sprinkle  with  sugar;  cut  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  quick 
overi. 

Helen  Binnie,  Kenosha,  Wis. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 
SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD 
2  pounds  or  8  cups  flour  %  pound  or  1  cup  butter 

%  pound  or  1^  cups  fruit        ^  pound  or  1  cup  butter 
or  brown  sugar.  substitute  as  Crisco. 

Sift  flour  and  sugar;  rub  in  butter  until  smooth.  Roll  out  three- 
quarter  inches  thick  and  cut  in  squares  or  with  fancy  cutter.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Irene  Madill,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 
QUAKER  OATS  BISCUIT 
Take  one  cup  Quaker  Oats,  over  which  pour  one  pint  boiling  water; 
let  cool.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter  and  lard,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one  level  tablespoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  yeast  (com- 
pressed). Mix  with  wheat  flour  as  for  biscuit.  Let  rise  over  night. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Katherine  Wilson,  Evanston,  III. 
Northwestern  Universitv. 
DROP  CHEESE  BISCUITS 
2  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  fat 

Y^  cup  milk  %  cup  grated  cheese 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  rub  in  fat;  add  milk  and  grated  cheese.  Shape 
and  place  on  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Ethel  Lawlor  Davis,  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 


DIXIE  BISCUITS 

1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes         1  cup  potato  water 
1  cup  cold  water  y^  cup  sugar 

1  scant  cup  lard,  melted  1  cake  Fleischman's  yeast 

Mix  above  ingredients ;  let  stand  two  hours,  then  add : 

1  tablespoon  salt  2  well-beaten  eggs 

Flour  to  make  very  stiff  dough 

Knead  well;  grease  top  thoroughly  and  set  in  cold  place  until  needed. 
Make  out  biscuits  three  hours  before  baking.  Make  in  form  of 
pocket  book  rolls.  Dough  can  be  kept  for  several  days  if  kept  cold, 
and  thoroughly  greased. 

Vina  Freitag  Kilby,  Jefferson  City,  Mo. 
University  of  Illinois. 

PINWHEEL  BISCUITS 

2  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
yi  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  sub-        ^  cup  milk 

stitute  Yi  cup  finely  chopped  raisins 


Yi  teaspoon  cinnamon  or  currants 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  citron 

Mix  as  baking  powder  biscuit.  Roll  to  one-quarter  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  fruit,  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Roll  like  jell  roll.  Cut  off  pieces  three-quarters  inch 
in  thickness.  Place  on  butctred  tin  and  bake  twelve  minutes  in 
hot  oven.    Currants  may  be  substituted  for  raisins  and  "citron. 

Frances  House  Swan,  Livonia,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

MAPLE  ROLL  BISCUIT 

3  cups  flour  6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  melted  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 

Sweet  milk  to  make  soft  dough 

Roll  out  without  much  handling  about  one-half  inch  thick  and 
sprinkle  thickly  with  brown  sugar  and  roll  up  like  cinnamon  rolls. 
Cut  the  roll  in  slices  one  and  o.ie-half  inches  thick  and  bake  one- 
half  hour  in  slow  oven.    Fine  with  coffee. 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 
University  of  Michigan. 

QUICK  TEA  ROLLS 

1  yeast  cake  1  cup  scalded  milk 

Y  cup  tepid  water  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  lard  or  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Add  shortening  to  milk  and  let  cool  until  lukewarm.  Soften  yeast 
cake  and  dissolve  sugar  in  water;  combine  mixtures.  Beat  in  half 
of  flour  until  very  smooth;  add  balance  with  salt;  knead  thoroughly. 
Roll  out,  place  in  pan  and  let  rise  two  hours.  Bake  fifteen  minutes 
in  moderate  oven. 

Lottie  B.  Crow  Porter,  Chickasha,  Okla. 

Brenau  College. 


COLLEGE    WOMAN'S    C:OOK    BOOK 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  Flour 
yi  cup  luke  w^rm  water 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  the  milk  when  lukewarm;  add  yeast 
and  three  cups  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  cool  and  let  rise  until 
light.  Add  enough  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  again,  toss  on  a  lightly 
floured  board,  knead  and  roll  out  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Shape 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour.  Crease  through  the 
middle,  brush  over  with  butter,  fold  and  press  together.  Place  in  a 
greased  pan  (one  inch  apart),  cover,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Doris  Morton,  Akron,  Ohio. 

University  of  Akron. 

LUNCHEON  ROLLS 

•    1  yeast  cake  1  yi  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  lard  or  butter       1  egg 

4  cups  sifted  flour 

Scald  and  cool  milk  until  tepid;  add  yeast  cake  and  sugar.  When 
dissolved,  add  lard  and  two  cups  flour.  Beat  well  with  spoon.  Add 
well-beaten  egg,  salt  and  remainder  of  flour.  Knead,  using  as  little 
flour  as  possible.  Place  in  greased  bowl  and  let  rise  two  hours  or 
until  light.  Form  into  biscuit  size  of  walnul.  Place  in  greased  pan. 
Let  rise  for  about  one-half  hour  or  until  about  double  size.  Brush 
over  with  milk  or  butter  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  hot  oven.  This 
will  make  forty  rolls. 

Julia  Rowley  Rogers,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Syracuse  University. 

CINNAMON  COFFEE  CAKE 
2  Pans 

1  beaten  egg  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
Beat  the  above  ingredients  together. 

1  cup  sweet  milk  or  butter-       yi  teaspoon  soda 
milk  lYi  cups  flour 

Pinch  of  salt 

If  sweet  milk  is  used,  use  three  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat 
egg,  sugar  and  butter;  add  milk;  lastly,  flour  sifted  with  salt  and 
baking  powder.  Place  on  buttered  pan  and  brush  top  with  mixture. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Top  Mixture 

3  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  tablesp)oon  melted  butter 

Mix  well. 

Mary  Clendenin,  East  Orange,  N.  J. 

Allegheny  College. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 


CINNAMON  FLOP 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  scant  cup  milk  2K  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  half  the  milk,  half  the  flour  sifted,  then 
the  remainder  of  each,   then  salt  and  baking  powder.     Bake  in 
moderate  oven  in  pan  for  sheet  cake.    When  partly  cold  spread  with 
the  following  icing: 

1  cup  sugar  yi  cup  butter 

Cinnamon  to  taste 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

Jean  Curley  Wilcox,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Goucher  College. 
COFFEE  CAKE 

1  yi  cups  flour  yi  teaspoon  salt 

yi  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  melted  short-        1  egg 
ening  K  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  melted  short-        1  tablespoon  flour 
ening  }4.  tablespoon  cinnamon 

3  tablespoons  sugar 
Sift  first  four  ingredients  together;  rub  in  melted  shortening.    Beat 
egg  with  milk  and  stir  into  above  mixture.    Put  in  shallow  pan. 
Mix  well,  last  four  ingredients  and  spread  on  dough.    Bake  twenty 
minutes. 

Louise  Whitmore  Arthur,  New  Haven,  N.  Y. 

Boston  University. 
QUICK  COFFEE  CAKE 
2  cups  sifted  flour  >^  teaspoon  soda 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder        y^  teaspoon  salt 
yi  teaspoon  nutmeg  yi  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  1  well  beaten  egg 

1  cup  thick  sour  milk  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Cream  sugar  and  butter;  add  soda  dissolved  in  milk;  beaten  egg  and 
flour  sifted  with  spices.  Shape,  place  on  buttered  pans  and  spread 
■with  following  mixture. 

yi  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

yi  cup  chopped  nuts 
Dot  with  pieces  of  butter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 

Winifred  Montgomery,  Marseilles,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 
SOUTHERN  EGG  BREAD 
1  cup  buttermilk  %  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  lard  Commeal 

Mix  all  together  and  add  enough  commeal  to  make  a  stiff  batter 
(about  \yi  cups).    Pour  into  hot,  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake. 

Margaret  Thompson  Castleberry,  Gainesville,  Ga. 

Brenau  College. 
CORN  BREAD 
1  cup  white  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  commeal  1  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        1  egg 

yi  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  melted  fat 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk,  well  beaten  eggs  and  fat. 
Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  in  a  hot  oven.  May  be  baked  in  a  shallow 
pan.  La  Beryl  Smart,  Detroit,  Mich. 

University  of  Michigan. 


•COLLEGE        WO    MANS        COOK         BOOK 


SOUTHERN  SPOON  CORN  BREAD 

Add  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt  to  three  cups  of  boiling  water. 
Set  over  hot  fire  and  gradually  stir  in  one-third  cup  breakfast 
hominy.  Let  cook  three  or  four  minutes  while  stirring,  then  let  cook 
undisturbed  over  boiling  water  thirty  minutes.  Add  three  table- 
spoons butter,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  light  and 
one  and  one-half  cups  corn  meal  sifted  with  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish  and  let  bake  three-fourths 
of  an  hour.  Serve  while  hot  with  a  spoon. 
This  serves  six  or  seven  people. 

Virginia  Clybourne  Norris,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

DATE  BREAD 

3  cups  graham  flour  1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  sour  milk  1  cup  chopped  dates 

1  cup  chopped  walnuts 
Combine  in  order  mentioned.    Beat  well  and  turn  into  bread  pans 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  about  forty-five  minutes. 
Makes  2  loaves. 

G.  T.  Paton,  Seattle.  Wash. 
University  of  Seattle. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 

2  cups  graham  flour  or  1  cup        1  cup  white  flour 
graham  flour  and   1  cup        1  }A.  cups  sour  milk 
corn  meal  3^  cup  molasses 

2  level  teaspoons  soda  Add  raisins,  nuts  or  dates 

1  level  teaspoon  salt  according  to  taste 

Mix  flours,  salt;  add  milk,  then  molasses  and  soda.  Raisins  or  nuts 
should  be  added  last.  Turn  into  greased  bread  pan  and  bake  three- 
quarters  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Mary  Cutting,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 
University  of  Michigan. 
BROWN  BREAD 
One  cupful  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses.  Mix  and  add  one  level 
teaspoon  baking  soda.  Stir  well  and  add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  well-beaten  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  and  one-fourth 
cupfuls  graham  flour,  one  and  three->fourths  cupfuls  white  flour, 
one-half  cupful  nuts,  and  one-half  cupful  raisins.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  for  one  hour. 

Catherine  Hope,  Jefferson  City,  Mo 
University  of  Missouri. 
STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD 
2 >^  cups  graham  flour  1  >^  cups  cornmeal 

1  cup  molasses  2  cups  buttermilk 

2  teaspoons  soda 
Dissolve  soda  iri  buttermilk.    Mix  in  order  named.    Steam  three 
hours. 

Stella  Meyer,  Columbia,  Mo. 
University  of  Missouri. 
BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 
1  Yi  cups  commeal  Yi  cup  molasses 

1  Yi  cups  graham  flour  1 J^  teaspoons  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  sour  milk 

Combine  ingredients  in  order  named.  Beat  well  and  pour  into 
greased  bread  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  one  hour. 

Helen  Murray,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 


NUT  BREAD 

4  cups  flour  1  cup  nuts  (chopped) 

I  cup  sugar  2  cups  sweet  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        1  egg 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.    Add  to  these  the  milk.   Mix  well. 
Add  the  nuts,  then  the  well  beaten  egg.    Pour  in  buttered  pans.  Let 
stand  for  20  minutes.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one-half  hour. 

Gertrude  Murray,  Ames,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 
OATMEAL  BREAD 

1  cup  flour  1  yi  cups  cornmeal 

1  teaspoon  salt  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  cooked  oatmeal 
2  tablespoons  shortening  1  ]/^  cups  milk 

Mix  well  and  turn  into  greased  pans  and  bake  forty  to  forty-five 
minutes. 

Evelyn  M.  Satrum,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 
University  of  Buffalo. 
PEANUT  BREAD 
1  cup  salted  peanuts,  shelled       4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  ground  in  meat  4  cups  flour 

grinder  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  yi  cups  milk 
Beat  well,  pour  into  long,  high  bread  tin  and  let  stand  twenty 
minutes.   Bake  in  moderate  oven  45  minutes.   Slice  when  a  day  old. 
Good  for  bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Alice  Mundorf  Johns,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

GRAPE-NUT  BREAD 


1  ^2  cups  grape-nuts 
1  cup  sugar 
Mix  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes. 
1  egg 
Yi  teaspoon  salt 


2  cups  milk 
Handful  raisins 

3  Yi.  cups  bread  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


Combine  ingredients  and  put  in  bread  tins  and  let  stand  one  and 
one-half  hours  before  baking  in  moderate  oven.  If  sour  milk  is 
used,  add  two  teaspoons  soda.  The  above  makes  two  medium-sized 
loaves.  Let  loaves  stand  several  hours  after  baking  before  they  are 
cut. 

Ruth  Harrington,  Stoneham,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 

CORN  PONE 


3  pints  cornmeal  (half 
cooked  to  a  mush) 
2  teaspoons  salt 
^  cup  sugar 


Water  enough  to  make  stiff 

mush 
2  eggs . 

2  tablespoons  fat 
Y2  cake  yeast 

Cook  half  of  cornmeal  with  water  enough  for  soft  mush.  Add  re- 
mainder of  cornmeal  and  cook  until  a  stiff  mixture.  Add  salt,  yeast 
and  sugar  and  allow  mixture  to  stand  over  night.  In  morning 
mixture  is  very  light.  Add  fat  and  well  beaten  eggs  and  bake  in 
buttered  dishes. 

Margaret  Middlekauf,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


10 


GLUTEN  BREAD 

1  pint  water  1 3^  teaspoons  salt 

Y2  cake  yeast  1  tablespoon  butter 

5  to  6  cups  gluten  flour  34  cup  luke  warm  water 

Add  salt  and  butter  to  water.  Add  yeast  dissolved  in  lukewarm 
water  and  sufficient  flour  to  knead.  Knead  well.  Put  in  bowl, 
cover,  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise.  When  double  in  bulk,  bake 
50  minutes  in  an  oven  with  decreasing  heat. 

1  cup  nut  meats  may  be  added  to  dough  just  before  putting  into  pans. 
Good  for  people  with  Diabetes. 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evan^ton,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

RUSK 

To  two  cups  light  bread  dough,  add  nutmeg  and  work  in  one 
beaten  egg.  Heat  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  shortening, 
one-half  cup  milk  till  shortening  dissolves.  Add  flour  to  make  stiff 
as  biscuit  dough.  Let  rise  till  very  light  (four  or  five  hours).  Cut 
off  and  shape  into  biscuits.  Let  rise  again  till  very  light  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  forty  minutes.  Brush  top  with  cloth  moistened 
with  equal  parts  of  milk  and  molasses. 

Agnes  Inglis,  Middletown,  Conn. 
Wesleyan  University 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 
11 


COOK 


BOOK 


Soups 


VEGETABLE  SOUP  WITHOUT  STOCK 

Yi  cup  carrot  1  quart  water 

Yi  cup  turnip  5  tablespoons  of  butter 

Y  cup  celery  Y  tablespoon  of 

1 Y  cup  potato  chopped  parsley 

Y  cup  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  and  scrape  small  carrot.  Cut  in  quarters,  lengthwise;  cut  strips 
thus  made  in  thin  slices,  crosswise.  Wash  and  pare  half  a  turnip  and 
cut  in  slices  same  as  carrot.  Wash,  pare  and  cut  {XJtatoes  in  small 
pieces;  cut  celery  in  quarter  inch  pieces.  Cut  onion  in  thin  slices. 
Prepare  vegetables  before  measuring.  Mix  vegetables  (except 
potatoes),  cook  10  minutes  in  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  potatoes,  cover  and  cook  2  minutes.  Add  water  and 
boil  1  hour.  Beat  with  a  fork  to  break  vegetables,  add  remaining 
butter,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 

Ruth  S.  Hadden,  Otisco,  Minn, 
University  of  Minnesota. 

NOODLE  SOUP 

(Noodles) 
3  eggs  Flour 

Y  teaspoon  salt  Brown  soup 

Beat  eggs  and  add  salt.  Add  flour  gradually  until  a  stiff  dough  is 
made.  Knead  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Roll  into  a  sheet  as  thin  as 
paper.  Cover  and  allow  to  stand  30  minutes.  Roll  down  into  roll 
and  cut  into  strips  Y^  irich  wide.  Heat  soup  stock,  add  noodles  to 
boiling  water  and  boil  for  15  minutes,  and  then  place  them  in  hot 
stock  and  serve. 

Opal  Wind,  Omaha,  Nebr. 
Iowa  State  College. 

FRENCH  ONION  SOUP 

To  chicken  soup,  add  fried  onions,  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  grated 
parmesian  cheese,  bay  leaf;  cook  Yi  hour.  Serve  with  croutons, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  on  the  top. 

Grace  Pugh,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

OKRA  GUMBO 

1  large  onion  1  can  shrimps 

1  pound  okra  1  pint  oysters 

2  cups  tomatoes  Salt 

6  cups  boiling  water  Pepper 

Paprika 
Fry  onion  in  bacon  drippings  or  lard.  With  this  fry  the  okra  cut  in 
small  slices.  Cook  over  slow  fire  (covered).  Add  tomatoes  and  cook 
well.  Add  boiling  water,  cook  one  hour.  Then  add  the  shrimps  and 
oysters.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  As  soon  as  oysters 
are  done,  serve  gumbo  with  hot  cooked  "rice. 

Chicken  may  be  used  in  place  of  shrimps  and  oysters,  but  in  that 
case  the  chicken  must  be  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  before  the  okra. 

Bemice  Grantham,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 


COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

12 


CREAM  OF  MUSHROOM  SOUP 

^2  cup  cream  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  qt.  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

3^  lb.  mushrooms  Salt,  pepper 

Place  milk  and  cream  in  double  boiler  to  heat ;  grind  mushrooms  in 
food  chopper  and  add  to  milk;  cream  butter  and  flour  with  a  little 
of  the  milk  in  separate  pan  and  use  it  to  thicken  soup.  Season  to 
taste.    Cook  at  least  20  minutes. 

Elizabeth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  III. 

Northwestern  University. 
ESAU'S  POTTAGE 
4  small  onions  2  tablespoons  shortening 

Y2,  teaspoon  soda  1  quart  can  tomatoes 

1  pint  can  red  kidney  beans        I  pint  hot  milk 
Salt  and  pepper 
Chop  onions  and  cook  in  shortening  till  yellow.    Add  beans  and 
tomatoes.     Simmer  till  soft  enough  to  force  through  a  strainer. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  soda  and  hot  milk.  Season  to  taste.  More 
milk  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Vesta  B.  Simpson,  Winnetka,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CORN  TOMATO  CHOWDER 

J^-inch  slice  of  fat  salt  pork         1  large  onion,  chopped 

(ground)  1  pint  canned  com 

1  pint  canned  tomatoes  1  pint  boiling  water 

1  )/2  teaspoons  salt  1  cup  (or  more)  parboiled, 

diced  potatoes 
Cook  pork  and  onion  till  they  are  softened  and  yellowed.   Then  add 
com,  water,  and  tomatoes.    Cover  and  let  simmer  about  an  hour. 
Then  add  potatoes  and  cook  till  they  are  done.    When  ready,  if 
too"  thick,  add  boiling  water  or  scalded  milk. 

Vesta  B.  Simpson,  Winnetka,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

LIMA  BEAN  CHOWDER 

1  cup  dried  baby  lima  beans 

y^  can  tomatoes 

Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour 
Brown  onion  in  butter.  Simmer  beans  till  tender  with  seasoning. 
Make  a  white  sauce  of  remainder  of  butter,  flour  and  milk.  Heat 
all  up  together  till  thickened.  Add  tomatoes  and  soda  just  before 
serving. 

Ethel  Bell,  Chicago.  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

WASHINGTON  CLAM  CHOWDER 

4  slices  bacon  I  small  onion 

1  medium  sized  potato  1  tall  can  minced  clams 

1  cup  rich  milk  or  I  cup  chopped  fresh  clams 

and  nectar 
Cut  bacon  in  fine  pieces  and  fry.  Add  onion  and  cook  slowly,  stir- 
ring often  for  six  or  eight  minutes.  Peel  potato  and  cut  in  half-inch 
dice.  Add  to  the  bacon  and  onion  and  pour  over  two  cups  boiling 
water.  Simmer  ten  minutes  or  until  potato  is  nearly  done.  Then 
add  clams  and  milk  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
.A.dd  two  or  three  crushed  crackers  just  before  serving.  Serves 
four  people  generously. 

Erminie  Lamb,  Tacoma,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 


1  small  onion 

y^  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  butter 
1  Yi  cups  milk 


COLLEGE 


W    OMAN 


c;   O   O   K 


BOOK 


13 


MOCK  LOBSTER  SOUP 


1  quart  milk 

1  piece  bay  leaf — parsley 

1  cup  codfish 

2  taolespoons  butter 
Paprika 


1  slice  onion 
Few  shreds  lemon 

2  cups  tomatoes 

2  tablespoons  flour 
Salt  if  necessary 


Put  milk  in  double  boiler.  Parboil  codfish  and  add  to  milk.  Scald 
20  minutes  and  strain  off  fish.  Cook  seasoning  and  tomatoes  20 
minutes.  Melt  two  tablesfX)ons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour 
and  add  the  milk.  Cook  until  thick.  Strain  in  tomato,  add  rest  of 
butter  in  small  bits  and  some  of  the  codfish  if  desired. 

Mary  E.  Rowe,  Poultney,  Vt. 
Syracuse  University. 

BAKED  BEAN  SOUP 

2  cups  cold  baked  beans  3  cups  cold  water 

1  tablespoon  onion  2  cups  tomatoes 

1  teaspoon  salt  Spk.  pepper 

Mix  the  beans,  water,  and  onion,  and  simmer  the  mixture  until  the 
beans  are  soft.  Add  the  tomato.  Rub  the  mixture  through  a 
strainer,  adding  more  water  or  tomato  to  make  it  the  right  con- 
sistency. Season  it,  heat  it  to  the  boiling  point,  and  serve  it  with 
toasted  crackers. 

Mildred  Mitton,  Dorchester,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 
14 


COOK 


BOOK 


Fish  &  zMeats 

'  DEVILED  SARDINES 
(Chafing  Dish) 

2  tablespoons  oil  (drained  from         }4  tablespoon  vinegar 
sardines)  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

}4  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce  J4  teaspoon  salt 
y^  teaspoon  paprika 

Put  the  sardines  in  chafing  dish;  pour  over  the  above  mixture,  and 
cook,  turning  frequently.    Serve  on  wafers.    Serves  twelve. 

Selma  M.  Day,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 


SHRIMP  WIGGLE 
(Chafing  Dish) 

2  cans  shrimps  >^  can  tomatoes 

1  pint  cream  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

1  cup  cooked  rice  Butter,  half  size  of  an  egg 

Cook  onion  in  butter  and  add  tomatoes  and  rice;  when  hot  add 
shrimp  cut  in  thirds.  Add  cream,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  on  crackers.  Serves  ten. 

Harriet  Kintzley  Campbell,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Iowa  University. 

PILAFFE 
(Casserole  Dish) 

1  cup  rice  1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup 

1  lb.  Hamburg  steak  Salt,  pepper 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg  Strips  of  bacon 

Boil  cup  of  rice  twenty  minutes;  brown  Hamburg  steak  in  butter; 
mix  with  rice;  add  soup,  salt  and  pepper;  lay  strips  of  bacon  on 
top;  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Frances  Ingalls  Shinn,  Lawrence,  Kansas. 
Syracuse  University. 

SPICED  HAM 

yi  cup  water  }4  cup  brown  sugar 

}i  cup  vinegar  Cloves 

Boil  ham  for  four  hours;  remove  skin;  mix  water,  vinegar  and  brown 
sugar  and  pour  over  ham,  then  place  about  a  dozen  cloves  in  top 
of  the  ham  and  bake  1  >^  hours. 

Zula  Speece,  Bloomington,  Illinois. 
Illinois  Wesleyan. 

HAM  LOAF 

1  pound  beef  6  crackers 

1  pound  smoked  ham  3  eggs 

Pepper 

Grind  beef,  ham  and  crackers;  add  well-beaten  eggs  and  pepper — 
no  salt.   Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  one  hour. 

Ruth  Anne  White,  La  Fayette.  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

15 


ir~n 


BAKED  HAM  WITH  APPLES 

Thick  slice  of  ham  }^  cup  water 

6  medium  sized  apples  1  y^  cups  brown  sugar 

10  whole  cloves 

Wash  ham,  trim  off  most  of  the  fat  and  rub  in  as  much  of  the  sugar 
as  it  will  take;  lay  in  pan  and  sprinkle  with  cloves;  pare  apples,  cut 
in  quarters  and  lay  around  ham.  Sprinkle  remaining  sugar  over 
apples  and  add  water.    Cover  and  bake  until  ham  is  tender. 

Lottie  B.  Crow  Porter,  Chickasha,  Okla. 

Brenau  College. 

BAKED  HAM 

(Southern  Style) 

Slice  of  ham  1  inch  thick  or  more     1  tablespoon  sugar 
2  tablespoons  flour  1  tablespoon  mustard 

yi  teaspoon  pepper 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  pat  into  the  ham.  Barely  cover  with  milk 
and  bake  at  least  forty-five  minutes. 

May  Willis  Whitney,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 


HAM  MOUSSE 

2  cups  finely  chopped  cooked  ham  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  gelatin,  dissolved  in  X  Salt,  paprika,  Y^  tea- 

cup water  spoon  dry  mustard. 

Cool;  fold  in  >^  cup  cream,  whipped.    Mould. 

DRESSING 

1  cup  mayonnaise  Yi  cup  cream,  whipped 

Yi  cup  chili  sauce  2  pimentos,  chopped 

Handful  chives  cut  up  fine 

Elsie  Biddleman,  Factoryville,  Pa. 
Syracuse  University. 

HAM  WITH  PINEAPPLE 

Soak  a  slice  of  ham  about  1  inch  thick  in  warm  water  for  at  least  1 
hour.  Drain  and  sprinkle  with  flour.  Melt  a  little  fat  in  baking 
pan,  preferably  a  piece  cut  from  ham,  and  brown  meat  in  it.  Pour 
1  cup  crushed  pineapple  and  Y^  cup  water  over  the  ham  and  bake 
slowly  until  tender.  Remove  to  hot  platter  and  pour  pineapple 
around  it. 

Doris  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES 

1  can  salmon,  chopped  fine  4  hard-boiled  eggs  (chopped) 

1  cup  mashed  potatos  Seasonings 

Mix  well;  form  into  croquettes;  dip  in  beaten  egg;  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry. 

Marguerite  Blachley  Boyd,  Gary,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

16 


SALMON  LOAF  WITH  CUCUMBER  SAUCE 
(Excellent  Summer  Dish) 

Soak  ^  tablespoon  gelatine  in  2  tablesp)oons  cold  water  and  stir 
this  into  2  tall  cans  of  salmon — flaked.  Make  the  following  boiled 
dressing  and  stir  into  the  above  and  then  pour  into  loaf  tin  to  set. 

1  tablespoon  sugar  Yt,  cup  milk 

yi  teaspoon  salt  Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour  y^  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard  Dash  of  paprika 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE 

Whip  1  bottle  cream,  add  salt  and  paprika.  Gradually  stir  in  2 
tablespoons  vinegar  and  ^  cucumber  which  has  been  diced  and 
drained. 

Margaret  Chase  Schmidt,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  SALMON 

1  cup  rice  1  tablespoon  curry  powder 

3  cups  milk  or  stock  yi  cup  butter 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  pound  cooked  salmon 

1  teasp>oon  onion  juice  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Boil  rice  five  minutes;  drain  off  the  water,  add  the  salt  and  milk 
and  let  steam  until  tender.  Cream  the  butter  with  onion  juice  and 
curry  powder  and  lightly  stir  this  into  the  rice.  Butter  a  two-quart 
mold  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  with  rice;  fill  the  center  with 
salmon,  flaked  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice;  cover 
it  with  rice  and  let  steam  >^  hour.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  sauce 
to  which  has  been  added  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  into  eighths. 

Eleanor  Murray,  Ames,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 

MOCK  DUCK 

2  pounds  round  steak,  cut  about  yi  inch  thick,  salted  and  peppered. 
Sew  up  the  meat  leaving  place  large  enough  to  put  in  the  dressing. 
After  dressing  is  in,  sew  up  the  rest  of  way  and  put  in  roasting  pan 
and  bake  for  about  an  hour.    Baste  with  fat. 

DRESSING 

Soak  small  loaf  of  white  bread ;  add  to  this  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper. 
Flavor  with  onion,  fried  in  small  bits  of  bacon.  Some  milk  can  be 
added  to  make  the  mixture  moister. 

Ethel  Bell,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

.     CHICKEN  PIE 
Crust 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  lard 
2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg,  beaten  light 
y2  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Filling 
Mince  boiled  chicken  in  baking  dish  and  cover  with  thin  batter. 
Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Laura  Sanders,  Evansville,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

17 


KROP  KAKOR 
(Swedish) 


4  cooked  potatoes  (grated) 
4  raw  potatoes  (grated) 


2  cups  flour 
Pinch  of  salt 


Filling 
1  lamb  chop  1  onion 

y^  lb.  salt  pork  (lean)  Allspice 

Pinch  of  salt,  pepper  and  sugar 

Grate  the  potatoes;  add  the  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough 
that  can  be  formed.  Cut  finely  the  lamb  chop,  salt  pork  and  onion; 
add  salt,  pepper  and  sugar  and  sprinkle  freely  with  allspice.  Dip 
the  hand  in  warm  water,  form  a  patty  in  the  hand,  fill  with  the  filling 
and  close  the  patty  making  a  ball.  Cook  the  balls  in  boiling  salt 
water  about  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  butter. 

Evelyn  Oberg,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH 


3  bunches  carrots 

4  stalks  celery 

2  large  green  peppers 

1  lb.  mushrooms 

2  large  Spanish  onions 


2  large  cans  tomatoes 
^2  lb.  best  butter 
\y2  lbs.  chopped  beef 
Grated  cheese  to  suit  taste 
Salt  to  taste 


Brown  meat  in  butter,  also  onions.  Put  tomatoes  in  large  kettle ; 
add  carrots,  cut  in  cubes.  Celery,  peppers,  mushrooms,  butter, 
cheese,  meat  and  onions.  Cook  until  tender.  Boil  macaroni  in  salt 
water  until  tender;  then  wash  in  cold  water.  Put  in  large  pan. 
Add  sauce,  mix  and  serve.    Add  a  little  more  cheese  while  hot. 

Evelyn  Ewert,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

PORTO  RICAN  POT  ROAST 

3  lbs.  cheap  cut  of  beef  1  large  onion,  chopped 

1  small  bottle  stuffed  olives  1  pint  canned  tomatoes 

\i  lb.  salt  pork  2  teaspoons  salt 

With  a  sharp  loiife  make  incisions  in  beef  and  stuff  them  with  the 
olives  and  salt  pork  cut  in  pieces.  Brown  the  beef  on  all  sides  in 
hot  fat  to  which  the  onion  has  been  added.  Add  one  cup  boiling 
water  and  the  tomatoes  and  simmer  for  3  hours.  Thicken  juice  for 
gravy. 

Bemadine  Haller  McCall,  Pullman,  Washington. 

University  of  Washington. 

CHILI  CON  CARNE 

1  onion  1  pound  round  steak,  ground 

1  quart  tomatoes  1  can  cooked  kidney  beans 

2  peppers,  small  and  chopped  fine    Mexican  chili  beans  are  better 

if  obtainable 
Chop  onion  very  fine  and  brown;  add  the  meat  and  brown.  Stir  into 
this  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  the  beans  and  the  peppers.  Season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  2  teaspoons  of  chili  powder.  The  amount 
of  chili  powder  is  increased  if  desired.  Cook  slowly  until  peppers 
are  cooked  through  and  the  desired  thickness  is  obtained. 

Elizabeth  Barnes,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


18 


BAKED  SAUSAGE 

(With  Apples) 
Select  6  red  apples,  wash  and  cut  in  halves,  crosswise.    Place  in 
baking  pan  with  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning.    Sprinkle 
each  apple  with  sugar,  lemon  juice,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.    Lay 
small  part  of  sausage  in  each  apple.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Ardis  Hessong,  Indianapolis,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

CHOPS  FOR  LUNCHEON 

Cut  lamb  chops  rather  thick,  salt  and  pepper  them;  roll  in  flour, 
then  in  egg,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Cook  eight  minutes  in 
butter,  turning  often.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  five  minutes  to  finish 
cooking.  Arrange  on  hot  platter  and  place  a  broiled  mushroom  on 
each.  Serve  with  jelly  sauce. 

Sauce 

1  glass  currant  jelly  1  piece  of  peel  cut  very  fine 
yi  cup  orange  juice                        2  teaspoons  chopped  mint 

Marie  Hunter  Calhoun,  Pittsburgh,  Pa, 

Ohio  University. 

SOUTHERN  OYSTERS 

2  tablespoons  butter  yi  pimento,  chopped  fine 
1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  cream 

yi  sweet  green  pepper  1  quart  oysters,  drained 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan;  add  flour.  Cook  until  brown  and  add 
green  pepper  and  pimento.  Add  cream;  when  it  is  thick,  add 
oysters,  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  baking  dish,  fill  with  mixture, 
cover  with  toasted  bread  crumbs.  Set  in  pan  of  boiling  water,  then 
in  oven.   Brown  and  serve. 

Ruth  Bengston,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

OYSTER  SCALLOP 

3  cups  cooked  rice  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 
1  pint  fresh  oysters  1  tablespoon  fat 

1  cup  chopped  celery  yi  teaspoon  salt 

i  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  pepper 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  milk,  cornstarch,  fat,  salt  and  pepper. 
Arrange  in  baking  dish  alternate  layers  of  rice,  oysters,  celery  and 
white  sauce  until  dish  is  nearly  full.  Let  a  layer  of  rice  cover  the 
top.    Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evanston,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

SAVORY  ROAST  BEEF 
(With  Dressing) 
Four  pounds  lean  part  of  shoulder  or  upper  round.  Cut  gashes  in 
meat  in  which  place  thin  slices  of  fresh  or  salt  pork.   Make  dressing 
of  bread  seasoned  with  onion,  parsley,  cloves,  red  pepper  and  salt; 
stuff  in  beside  pork. 

Sauce 
One  tablespoon  flour;  1  tablespoon  butter;  rub  together  over  fire 
and  add  1  pint  water.  Place  meat  in  beside  sauce  and  add  1  pint 
tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  Worcestershire  Sauce  (Lea  &  Perrins). 
Cover  all  with  hot  water  and  simmer  1  hour  to  each  pound  of  meat. 
Serve  meat  with  sauce  around  it. 

Helen  Burgert,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa. 

Coe  College. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

19 


PRESSED  CHICKEN 

Boil  a  chicken,  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  till  the  bones  slip  out 
and  the  gristly  portions  are  soft.  Remove  the  skin,  pick  the  meat 
apart  and  mix  the  dark  and  white  meat.  Remove  the  fat  and  season 
the  liquor  highly  with  salt  and  pepper;  also  with  celery  salt  and 
lemon  juice,  if  you  desire.  Boil  down  to  one  cup  and  mix  with  the 
meat.  Butter  a  mold  and  decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  with 
slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  with  slices  of  tongue  or  ham  cut 
in  fancy  shapes.  Pack  the  meat  in  and  set  away  to  cool  with  a 
weight  on  the  meat,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  dip  mould  in  warm 
water  and  turn  out  carefully.  Garnish  with  parsley,  strips  of  lettuce 
or  celery  leaves  and  radishes  or  beets. 

Marguerite  Oatman,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
^  University  of  California. 

TAMALE  LOAF 

1  onion 


1  can  tomatoes 

1  can  corn 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 

taste 
yi  cup  salad  oil 


1  button  of  garlic 

1  slice  butter  quarter  inch 

wide 
3  teaspoons  Grandma  Pepper 

Sauce 
Cook  1 5  minutes,  then  add : 

1  cup  sweet  milk  .  1  %  cups  yellow  com  meal 

3  eggs,  well  beaten 
Cook  altogether  15  minutes  more  and  then  add  1  cup  olives  (ripe). 
Put  in  greased  bread  pan.    Bake  1  hour.    Pour  a  little  olive  oil  on 
top  before  putting  in  oven.    May  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

Alice  Mundorf  Johns,  Berkeley,  Calif. 

University  of  California. 
MEAT  LOAF 
Two  pounds  round  steak  1  egg 

yi  pound  salt  pork  1  cup  milk 

(Chopped  together)  Juice  of  one  lemon 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  Salt,  pepper,  onion  and  sage 

to  taste 
Bake  slowly  ^  to  1  hour. 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 

University  of  Michigan. 
MEAT  LOAF 

1  pound  hamburger  1  onion 

yi  pound  veal  1  can  tomatoes 

y2  p>ound  pork  Salt  and  pepper 

8  crackers 
Mix  all  together,  using  the  juice  from  the  tomatoes  to  moisten  with. 
This  is  very  good  cold. 

Merry  Mueller  Fischer,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 
JELLIED  VEAL  LOAF 

3  pounds  veal  Juice  of  1  lemon 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  ^2  cup  water 

1  teaspoon  gelatine 
Cook  veal  until  tender,  season  and  chop  fine.  Dissolve  gelatine  in 
one  tablespoon  cold  water  and  add  seven  tablespoons  boiling  water. 
Cool  and  add  veal  and  egg  alternately  in  mold,  pressing  well  into 
comers.  Add  speck  of  cayenne  pepper  to  meat  stock  and  pour  over 
loaf  hot.     Slice  and  serve  as  cold  meat  or  salad.  , 

Kathryn  Wilson,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


20 


STUFFED  PORK  TENDERLOIN 

1  yi  pounds  pork  tenderloin  1  yi  cups  fresh  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  onion,  chopped  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

)/2  teaspoon  salt  Y^  teaspoon  paprika 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  2  tablespoons  water 

Mix  crumbs,  onion,  parsley,  salt,  paprika,  butter  and  water.  Place 
this  mixture  on  top  of  the  tenderloin  which  has  been  flattened  out. 
Now  roll  it  up  and  tie  with  string.  Place  in  buttered  baking  dish 
and  add  one  inch  water.  Cover  with  lid  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  one  hour.   Serves  four. 

Beth  Round  Harrington,  Maquoketa,  Iowa. 

Northwestern  University. 
^        FLANK  STEAK 
Slice  flank  steak  Whole  onions,  peeled 

Whole  potatoes,  peeled  Parboiled  macaroni 

1  can  toniatoes 
Brown  flank  steak  in  Crisco  or  bacon  fat  on  top  of  stove  (in  skillet). 
Then  place  in  roasting  pan;  add  a  little  water  to  remaining  fat  and 
pour  over  meat;  surround  with  potatoes  and  onions;  entirely  cover 
with  macaroni;  dot  top  with  tomatoes.  Season  meat  and  each 
vegetable  separately.    Roast  in  oven  l}4  to  2  hours. 

Beth  Menker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
VEAL  BIRDS 
One  pound  veal  steak.  Cut  each  piece  about  four  inches  square. 
Fill  with  dressing  and  fasten  the  meat  with  two  toothpicks  to 
resemble  the  legs  of  a  bird.  Cloves  may  be  used  for  eyes  when 
served.    Bake  in  oven  for  about  one  hour. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKET 
Substitute  round  steak  woun<d  with  bacon  in  above  recipe.    Cover 
with  ^2  cup  boiling  water  and  let  simmer. 

Grace  Johnson,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 
APPLES  ON  PORK  CHOPS 
6  pork  chops  3  tablespoons  flour 

X  teaspoon  sage  J4  teaspoon  salt 

K  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  cold  water 

3  tart  apples  y^  cup  raisins 

J4  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Sprinkle  the  chops  with  sage  and  salt  and  brown  them  in  the  frying 
pan.  Remove  to  a  shallow  baking  dish.  On  each  place  one-half  an 
apple,  pared,  cored  and  filled  with  brown  sugar.  Into  the  fat  in 
the  frying  pan  put  the  flour  and  salt,  and  when  slightly  browned 
add  the  water.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly,  and 
add  vinegar  and  raisins.  Pour  over  the  chops  and  bake  until  apples 
are  tender. 

J.  C.  McRuer,  Toronto,  Canada. 
University  of  Toronto. 
TURKEY  DRESSING 
One  quart  chestnuts  put  in  hot  water  and  boiled  until  skins  are 
soft;  drain  and  skin;  boil  in  water  until  soft;  put  them  through 
food  chopper  and  season  with : 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  parsley 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablesp)oon  ham,  chopped 

)4  teaspoon  pepper  Giblets,  if  you  wish 

1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind    2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 
2  well-beaten  eggs 
The  above  is  sufficient  for  a  large  turkey. 

Selma  M.  Day,  Toronto,  Canada. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

21 


CHOP  SUEY 

2  lbs.  lean  pork,  diced  3  tablespoons  sorghum  molasses 

2  cups  diced  celery  1  cup  water  or  meat  stock 

1  cup  diced  onions  %  cup  chop  suey  sauce 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablesp)Oons  butter 

Brown  meat  in  butter  quickly;  then  add  celery  and  onions.  Stir 
easily  for  two  or  three  minutes;  add  molasses,  chop  suey  sauce  and 
water.  Simmer  slowly  for  1  hour,  stirring  occasionally.  Just  before 
removing  from  fire  add  paste  made  of  the  flour  and  water.  Mush- 
rooms may  be  added  if  desired.  Serve  with  rice  cooked  Southern 
style. 

Esther  Weir,  Urbana,  III. 
University  of  Illinois. 

CHICKEN  CHOP  SUEY 


1  quart  diced  cooked  chicken 
yi  cup  chopped  salt  pork 
1  pt.  water  or  chicken  stock 

1  onion,  chopped 

2  cups  celery,  cut  up 
yi  tablespoon  salt 
2  tablespoons  molasses 


3  tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  water 

1  tablespoon  Chinese  sauce 

yi  cup  mushrooms 

If   available,    yi    cup    Chinese 

water  chestnuts  and  1  cup 

bamboo  sprouts 


Cook  meat  in  the  pork  fat  till  brown;  add  water,  onion,  celery,  salt 
and  molasses.  Simmer  1  hour.  Mix  flour  and  water  and  add  to 
mixture  to  thicken.  Then  add  molasses,  Chinese  sauce  and  mush- 
rooms.  Cook  10  minutes. 

Grace  Pugh,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

MOCK  CHOP  SUEY 

1  pound  beef,  cut  in  small  pieces       yi    pound    pork    cut    in 
1  tablespoon  butter  small  pieces 

Brown  thoroughly  in  frying  pan;  then  cover  with  water  and  simmer 

for  25  minutes;  then  add: 


1  cup  chopped  celery 

3  or  4  onions,  sliced 
Season  and  baste.    Cook  all  for  20 
boiled  rice. 


1  teaspoon  molasses 
1  cup  mushrooms 
minutes  longer.    Serve  with 


pieces 

eggs,   fried  on  both 

sides  and  sliced. 

Mix  altogether  with  the 


Clara  Haubold,  Gary,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CHOW  MIEN 

Cook  thoroughly  I  lb.  noodles.   To  this  add : 

1  lb.  bamboo  shoots  1  lb.  ham,  cut  in  small 

]/2  lb.  bean  sprouts 
1  lb.  mushrooms,    cut    in    small 
pieces 
Season  with  1  cup  of  Soy  Bean  Sauce 

noodles  in  an  iron  fry  pan  and  fry  well  in  peanut  oil,  or  any  other 
oil  if  the  peanut  oil  cannot  be  obtained.  T>iis  amount  will  serve  12 
people. 

Marguerite  Oatman,  Berkeley,  Calif, 
University  of  California. 

SHRIMP  A  LA  CREOLE 

Fry  a  large  onion  in  butter.  Add  one  can  shrimps  cut  fine.  Stir  two 
or  three  minutes.  Add  one  cup  cooked  rice.  Mix  well.  Serve  with 
chili  sauce  on  top. 

Charlotte  Dines,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK         BOOK 


22 


CHOP  SUEY 

yi  pound  fresh  pork  shoul-        %  pound  veal,  cut  in  small 
der,  cut  in  small  cubes  cubes 

Put  one  tablespoon  butter  in  frying  pan  and  add  one-half  cup 
chopped  onions  and  two  cups  chopped  celery.  Let  this  brown 
thoroughly.  Then  push  to  one  side  and  brown  meat.  Add  two 
tablespoons  molasses,  two  tablespoons  chop  suey  sauce,  or  one  of 
Worchestershire  sauce  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  ten  minutes. 
Then  add  one-half  cup  water  and  let  simmer.  If  it  gets  too  thick 
add  more  water.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoon  flour. 
Chopped  mushrooms  may  be  added. 
Serve  with  rice.     Serves  five  people. 

Vesta  Blodgett  Simpson,  Winnetka,  111. 

Northwestern  University. 
TAMALE  PIE 
Yi,  pound  ground  ham  1  small  can  tomatoes 

burger  steak  1  onion 

1  tablespoon  chili  powder  1  cup  commeal 
4  cups  water                                  1  teaspoon  salt 

Cut  onion  into  small  pieces  and  fry.  Add  the  hamburger.  After 
the  meat  has  been  well-fried  add  the  tomatoes  and  chili  powder 
and  cook  about  five  minutes.  Make  a  cornmeal  mush  and  cook 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Put  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  mush  in  a  well- 
greased  baking  dish,  add  a  layer  of  hamburger  and  tomatoes,  then 
a  layer  of  mush,  alternating  until  the  top  layer  is  mush.  Bake  in 
the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.    Serves  six. 

Dorothy  Meyer,  Columbia,  Mo. 
-^  University  of  Missouri. 

BAKED  FISH 

Clean  fresh  fish  thoroughly;  roll  in  fiour;  lay  in  greased  pan  and 

season  inside  and  out  with  salt,  pepper,  and  dots  of  butter. 

Make  dressing  of  one  quart  bread  crumbs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  j^epper 

and  sage  to  taste,  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced,  one  finely  sliced  potato, 

one  finely  minced  onion,  and  water  enough  to  mix  together. 

Lay  the  dressing  around  the  fish  in  spoonfuls  and  add  boiling  water 

enough  to  cook.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

Helen  Bowman,  Oran,  Mo. 
University  of  Missouri. 

VEAL  AND  TOMATO 

2  pounds  veal  steak  1  can  tomatoes 

Place  veal  in  baking  dish;  cover  with  tomatoes,  season  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper;  and  cover  top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake 
one  and  one-half  hours. 

Kathryn  Wilson,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CRAB  TOAST 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  pint  crab  meat 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

yi  teaspoon  mustard,  salt,        1  hard  cooked  egg 
pepper  yi  cup  milk 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk  and  seasonings  in  double 
boiler.  Add  lemon  juice,  diced  egg  and  crab  meat.  Mix  well  and 
serve  on  toast. 

Muriel  Durgin,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

23 


CRAB  MEAT  A  LA  CASSEROLE 

1  large  can  crab  meat  (re-        y^  teaspxx)n  grated  nutmeg 
move  bones)  Yolks  of  4  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  bottle  cream  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour  Salt,  pepper 

Chopped  parsley 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  cream.     Add  nutmeg,  salt, 
pepper,  parsley  and  yolks  of  eggs  cut  in  small  pieces.     Mince  crab- 
meat  and  add  to  cream-sauce.     Put  into  baking  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  cracker  crumbs.     Bake  till  thoroughly  heated. 

Eleanor  Larzelere,  Antigo,  Wise. 
Northwestern  University. 

OYSTER  PATTIES 

2  dozen  large  oysters  1  tablespoon  green  sweet 

2  cups  milk  or  thin  cream  pepper,  minced 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  pimentos 

2  tablespoons  flour  minced 

Salt,  pepper 
Make  white  sauce  by  blending  butter  and  flour  over  slow  fire 
-  (without  browning).  Add  the  milk  and  minced  seasoning;  cook  five 
minutes.  Heat  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until  edges  curl 
slightly.  Lift  the  oysters  out  on  a  warm  dish  while  you  strain 
about  one  cupful  of  the  liquor  into  the  white  sauce.  Add  salt  and 
pepper.  Then  put  oysters  into  the  sauce,  heat  one  minute  and  put 
four  oysters  and  plenty  of  the  sauce  into  each  oattie  shell.  Serve 
immediately. 

PATTIE  SHELLS 

1  pound  good  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  pound  flour  Ice  water 

F*ut  flour  and  half  of  the  butter  in  a  cold  bowl  and  chop  until  mix- 
ture is  fine,  like  meal.  Wet  with  ice  water;  mix  and  roll  out  on  a 
floured  bowl.  Have  the  other  half  of  the  butter  rather  soft  and 
spread  a  portion  of  it  over  the  dough.  Fold  dough  from  the  outside 
toward  the  middle,  roll  again  and  spread  with  butter  and  repeat 
until  all  butter  is  used.  Put  near  ice  until  next  day.  Then  roll 
rather  thin ;  cut  in  rounds  with  fluted  cookie  cutter,  put  four  or  five 
together  one  on  top  of  another  and  with  a  small  cutter  cut  out  the 
centers  of  all  but  the  bottom  two.  Put  in  baking  dish  with  groups 
not  touching.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  in  hot  steady  oven. 
Watch  carefully  and  do  not  scorch.  These  shells  may  be  made 
ahead  of  time  as  they  keep  well  if  kept  in  a  cool  dry  place.  Put  in 
a  warm  oven  and  heat  before  filling  with  oysters. 

Edith  Joesting,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Goucher  College 

CREAMED  ROUND  STEAK 

(Serve  two) 
>^  pound  ground  round  steak        1  cup  or  more  milk 
1  small  onion  chopped  fine        Flour 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Brown  onion  in  hot  bacon  fat.     Brown  steak  in  same  fat  stirring 
quickly  to  keep  soft.     Dredge  with  flour  and  when  brown  add  milk 
and  season. 

Marion  Brown  Comeliussen 
University  of  Illinois. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

24 


HEAVENLY  HASH 

1  pound  Hamburg  steak  1  cup  tomatoes,  or  2  fresh 
yi  pound  fresh  pork  tomatoes 

10  milk  crackers  1    green   pepper    (chopped 

2  chopped  onions  fine) 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
Mix,  form  in  loaf  and  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Charlah  Ireland,  Oneonta,  N.Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

ENCHALADAS  (Mexican) 
Batter 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  commeal 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Enough  water  to  make  a  very  thin  batter.     Make  cakes  size  of 
large  pan.     Cook  cakes  over  slow  fire. 

Filling 
3  pounds  of  meat,  (either  beef  and  veal  or  beef  and  chicken) 
Boil  meat  until  well  done.     Then  grind  and  put  back  in  broth  to 
keep  hot.     Meat  may  be  secured  from  butcher  ground  and  then 
boiled. 

Sauce 
2  cans  of  hot  tomato  sauce       Equal  amount  of  water 
Boil  one  tablespoon  of  cumin  seed  in  water.     Add  sauce,  dash  of 
red  pepper,  mustard  and  salt.     Thicken  if  necessary. 

How  to  Serve 
Have  everything  hot.     Bake  cakes  as  you  need  them. 
Lay  cake  on  plate.     Put  two  tablespoons  meat  on  one  side  of  cake 
and  flap  other  side  to  cover  meat.     Cover  with  sauce.     Sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese.     Garnish  with  parsley  or  lettuce  and  olives. 
Serve  with  salted  wafers  and  coffee. 

Virginia  Kilgore,  Oakland,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 
BAKED  BREADED  VEAL 
Cut  veal  in  pieces  the  right  size  for  each  person.  Dip  in  crumbs, 
egg  and  crumbs  again.  Brown  in  drippings  in  frying  pan.  Place 
in  large  pan  or  baking  dish  and  cover  with  cream  gravy  made  in 
the  pan  in  which  veal  was  browned.  Bake  one  and  one  quarter 
hours  or  until  meat  can  be  cut  with  a  fork. 

*  Dorothy  Duval,  Chicago,  111. 

Northwestern  University. 

BUTTER    AND    PARSLEY    SAUCE 

(Not  Cooked) 
2  tablespoons  parsley  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter       1  teaspoon  salt 
X  teaspoon  pepper 
Combine,  and  use  at  once  if  desired.    Lemon  juice  may  be  omitted. 

Helen  Gelhar,  Glencoe,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

MINT  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 

]^  cup  mint  leaves  chopped       2     tablespoons     powdered 
fine  sugar 

1  cup  hot  vinegar 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  chopped  mint 
leaves.     Let  stand  thirty  minutes  to  infuse.     If  the  vinegar  is  very 
strong,  dilute  with  water.     Serve  hot.     Especially  good  on  roasted 
lamb. 

Mabel  Osborne,  Pasadena,  Calif. 
University  of  Illinois. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK        BOOK 

25 


OMELETTE 

2  eggs  K  cup  whipping  or  rich 

2  tablespoons  grated  cheese  cream 

yi  teaspoon  salt  Pepper 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  cream  and  cheese  and  beat  in.  Add  seasoning 
and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  for  twelve  minutes.    Serves  two. 

Maud  Klasgye,  Long  Beach,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 
STUFFED  EGGS 
Cut  hard  cooked  eggs  in  halves,  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks,  and 
put  whites  aside  in  pairs.  Mash  yolks  and  add  half  the  amount  of 
devilled  ham  and  enough  melted  butter  to  make  of  consistency  to 
shape.  Make  in  balls  size  of  original  yolks  and  refill  whites.  Form 
remainder  of  consistency  into  a  nest,  arrange  eggs  in  the  nest  and 
pxjur  over  one  cup  of  white  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Pearl  Mitchell  Bower,  Bloomington,  III. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

BAKED  EGGS 

Butter  muffin  pans  well,  leaving  inch  of  melted  butter  in  each 
section.  Break  an  egg  into  each  section.  Season,  and  then  add 
layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese  until  pan  is  full.  Put  a 
d^sh  of  paprika  on  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  ten  min- 
utes or  until  eggs  are  set.  Serve  with  sauce  containing  chopped 
pimentos  or  pickles. 

Virginia  Green,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

BAKED  EGGS 

Beat  four  eggs;  add  one  cup  milk,  little  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in 
buttered  ramekins  or  muffin  tins  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

Helen  Perkins,  Evanston,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

TOMATO  NEST 

4  whole  tomatoes  4  eggs  4  slices  bacon 

Skin  and  scoop  out  tomatoes.  Break  an  egg  in  each  tomato  and 
lay  slice  of  bacon  on  top.  Place  on  slice  of  buttered  toast  in  a 
buttered  pan  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Grace  Johnson,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
ROYAL  SCALLOPED  EGG 
6  hard  cooked  eggs  1  cup  chopped  cooked  ham 

1  pint  cream  sauce  (4  table-        1  cup  cracker  crumbs 
spoons  butter,  4  table-        %  cup  butter  (melted) 
spoons    fiour,    2    cups       Make  white  sauce 
milk) 
Moisten  cracker  crumbs  with  the  melted  butter.    Remo\e  yolks  of 
eggs  and  put  through  a  potato  ricer.    Chop  the  whites  fine.    Into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  put  layers  of  crumbs,  chopped  whites,  cream 
sauce,  ham  and  yolks,  and  continue  until  the  dish  is  filled.    Cover 
top  with  crumbs  and  bake  until  orown  in  a  moderate  o\en. 

Coca  Nichols  Fearon,  Syracuse,  N.  Y, 
Syracuse  University. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

26 


WELSH  RAREBIT 

yi  pound  cheese  (grated)  Cayenne 

yi  cup  milk  or  cream  1  egg 

%  teaspoon  mustard  2  teaspoons  butter 

1^2  teaspoon  salt 
Put  cheese,  milk  into  a  double  boiler.     Mix  mustard,  salt,  and 
cayenne;  add  egg  and  beat  well.     When  cheese  is  melted,  stir  in 
egg  mixture  and  butter  and  cook  until  it  thickens. 
Serve  on  hot  toast.  Sidonie  Sewald  Larrance,  Chicago,  111. 

Northwestern  University. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT 

yi  cup  tomato  pulp  .  2  tablespoons  flour 

Pinch  soda  yi  cup  grated  cheese 

yi  cup  milk  4  slices  toast 

Heat  tomato  pulp,  add  soda,  then  milk.  When  hot,  thicken  with 
flour  to  which  enough  cold  water  has  been  added  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  grated  cheese  and  stir  until  smooth.  Serve  on  toast. 
The  flavor  may  be  varied  by  cooking  a  little  onion  and  green  pepper 
with  the  tomatoes  before  putting  through  the  sieve. 

Ethel  Frank  Holcombe,  Chesterton,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

SARDINE  RAREBIT 

2  tablespoons  butter  (melted)     2  teaspoons  mustard 
yi  teaspoon  paprika  yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  6  sardines  well  boned  and 

1  cup  mild  cheese  cut  up 

Melt  butter,  add  two  teaspoons  mustard;  paprika,  and  salt  and 
blend  well.  Add  one  cup  milk  (or  half  milk  and  half  cream)  and 
cook  for  two  minutes,  stirring  well;  add  cheese  cut  up,  stir  well, 
then  add  sardines  (cut  up)  and  serve  hot  on  buttered  toast. 

Grace  Phillips,  Elgin,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 

OYSTER  RAREBIT 

1  cup  oysters  2  tablespoons  butter 
yi  pound  milk  cheese  cut  in       2  eggs 

small  pieces  Few  grains  of  cayenne 

Melt  butter,  add  cheese  and  seasoning.  As  cheese  melts,  add 
gradually  oyster  liquid  and  eggs  (slightly  beaten).  When  mixture 
is  smooth,  add  soft  part  of  oysters  from  which  tough  muscle  has 
been  removed.     Serve  hot  on  toast. 

Sadie  MacDowell,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  flour 
]/2  cup  scalded  milk  yi  teaspoon  salt 
Sprinkle  cayenne                          yi  cup  grated  cheese  (Amer- 
Yolks  3  eggs  ican) 

Whites  3  eggs  • 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mix  well.  Scald  milk  gradually  and  add 
cheese  and  seasonings.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  well  beaten  egg 
yolks.  Cool  mixture  before  folding  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish,  place  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

Elizabeth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

27 


DRIED  BEEF  RAREBIT 

1  cup  chipped  dried  beef  3^  cup  tomatoes 
Yt.  cup  grated  or  chopped       4  eggs 

cheese  2  tablespoons  butter 

Melt  butter  in  frying  pan,  add  chipped  beef  and  allow  to  crisp. 
Pour  in  tomatoes  and  heat  thoroughly,  add  cheese  and  stir  until 
melted.  Break  eggs  into  mixture  and  stir  until  thick.  Serve  hot 
on  crisp  crackers.  Gladys  Parks  Dennis,  Versailles,  III. 

Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

SAVORY  TOAST 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes  Y^  onion,  sliced 

1  cup  water  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  cloves  yi  teaspoon  mustard 

3  allspice  berries  2  teaspoons  salt 

3  peppercorns  Dash  cayenne  pepper 

2  sprays  parsley  yi  pound  cheese 

2  tablespoons  fat  I  egg 

8  slices  toast 
In  a  covered  saucepan  simmer  the  tomatoes  in  water,  cloves,  all- 
spice, berries,  peppercorn,  and  parsley  for  at  least  fifteen  minutes. 
Brown  the  onion  in  the  fat,  and  add  the  flour,  mustard,  salt,  and 
cayenne  which  have  been  previously  mixed.  Mix  well  before  adding 
the  tomatoes.  As  soon  as  the  mixture  reaches  the  boiling  point, 
strain  and  stir  while  adding  the  cheese,  until  the  latter  is  perfectly 
blended.  Beat  the  egg,  add  a  part  of  the  hot  tomato  mixture  and 
mix  thoroughly;  repeat  until  all  the  tomato  has  been  used.  Stir 
and  cook  over  hot  water  till  egg  thickens  mixture.  Serve  on  toast 
at  once.  Ruth  Anne  White,  La  Fayette,  Ind. 

De  Pauw  University. 

RICE  OMELET  WITH  PEAS 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  fat 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  cup  peas  (at  least) 

Heat  and  season  peas  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar. 
Beat  whites  and  yolks  well,  separately.     Mix  the  rice  with  half  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  through  the  yolks,  then  fold  in  whites. 
Melt  fat  in  a  hot  omelet  pan.     Cook  in  moderate  oven  till  egg  is 
done.     Score  through  center  and  fold  and  pour  hot  peas  around  it. 

Marie  Bellinghausen,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

CHEESE  BALLS 

1  cup  mild  creamy  cheese       ]/i  cup  bread  crumbs 
1  egg  Pepper      Dash  salt 

To  cheese  add  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and  the  well  beaten  egg. 
Mix  well  and  roll  into  small  balls.  Roll  these  in  fine  cracker  crumbs 
and  just  before  serving  place  in  a  wire  basket  and  fry  in  deep  fat 
till  they  are  a  delicate  brown.     Serve  with  salads. 

Birdie  Bruns,  Dayton,  Ohio. 
De  Pauw  University. 

HOT  CHEESE  CAKES 

1  pound     grated     cheese    .    1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

(sharp  American)  pxDwder 

2  egg  whites  (stiffly  beaten)        1  cup  cream 

Paprika  Worcestershire  sauce  if  liked 

Beat  all  together  and  spread  on  slices  of  bread.  Place  on  broiler 
and  toast  a  light  brown,     Serve  very  hot. 

Bemice  Grantham,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

28 


FOAMY  OMELET 

2  eggs  1  tablespoon  milk 

3^  teaspoon  salt  Cayenne  pepper 

1  teaspoon  butter 
Beat  egg  yolks  until  light;  add  seasonings  and  milk.  Beat  whites 
very  stiff  and  cut  into  yolks.  Put  into  buttered  pan  and  cook  over 
low  flame.  Do  not  remove  cover  from  dish  during  first  five  min- 
utes of  cooking  or  omelet  will  be  heavy.  When  set,  remove  lid  and 
put  in  hot  oven  to  brown  top.    Serve  at  once. 

Viola  Michel,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

SWISS  EGGS 

6  eggs  1  onion,  cut  in  small  pieces 

1  cup  tomato  soup  1  green  pepper,  cut  fine 

or  canned  tomatoes  (Thyme,  savory,  salt,  to 

taste) 
Warm  tomatoes,  onion,  pepper,  herbs  in  pan.    Beat  eggs  and  fold 
in  mixture.    Will  serve  four  or  five  people.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Grace  Pugh,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Wisconsin  University. 

EGG  CHOPS 

4  eggs  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  Salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Pepper 

Onion  juice 
Hard  cook  four  eggs.    Make  a  thick  white  sauce  of  the  other  in- 
gredients; add  the  eggs,  chopped  up.    Shape  into  eight  patties  with 
the  hands,  set  in  ice  box  to  stand  for  several  hours.    Then  fry  in 
deep  fat,  or  saute  in  lard  or  butter. 

Add  one  cup  of  cold  cooked  macaroni  cut  small  to  make  it  go  farther 
when  eggs  are  scarce. 

Margaret  Chase  Schmidt,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CREAMED  CELERY  IN  CHEESE  SHELL 

3  cups  cooked  celery  %  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  pint  white  sauce  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Cut  the  cleanec  celery  stalks  in  pieces,  one  inch  long,  and  let  cook 
in  boiling  water  to  cover  until  tender.  For  three  cups  of  pieces, 
make  one  pint  of  white  sauce,  using  the  water  in  which  the  celery 
was  cooked,  with  cream  as  the  liquid.  Turn  into  the  shell  of  an 
Edam  cheese,  cover  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  melted 
butter  and  let  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  a  light  scraping  of  cheese 
with  each  serving  of  celery. 

Barbard  Wentch,  Ames,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 

CHEESE  AND  CORN  SOUFFLE 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  tablespoons  chopped 
1  cup  boiled  com  green  pepper 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  H  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  cheese,  grated  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  fat  1  tablespoon  catsup 

Mix  first  seven  ingredients  and  catsup ;  add  well-beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  well  greased  baking  dish 
for  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Serve  at  once. 

Grace  Pugh,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
Wisconsin  University. 


C    O    L    L    E    GE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

29 


Vegetables 


CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

6  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes  4  tablespoons  butter 

2  large  sour  apples  Salt 

y^  cup  brown  sugar  yi,  cup  water 

Parboil,  peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  into  slices.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking  dish  with  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with 
brown  sugar  and  dot  with  pieces  of  butter  and  a  few  grains  of  salt. 
Add  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  pealed  apple.  Alternate  potatoes  and 
apples,  adding  butter  and  sugar  until  materials  are  used.  Add  water. 
Cook  in  oven  until  apples  are  mushy.    (Serves  six.) 

Mildred  Newman  Neasmith,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Syracuse  University . 

MARSHMALLOW  SWEET  POTATO 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  peel,  mash;  add  seasoning  and  butter.  Put  in 
buttered  baking  dish;  cover  top  with  marshmallows  and  place  in 
oven  until  marshmallows  are  melted;  then  put  under  flame  and 
brown. 

Charlotte  Dines,  Evanston,  111. 
Norhwesern  University. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

1  egg  beaten  light  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  corn  yi  teaspoon  baking 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  powder 

Add  com  to  egg;  sift  together  flour  and  baking  p)owder  and  add  to 
corn  mixture"  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mary  Jane  Weir  Colmey,  Kirkwood,  Mo. 
University  of  Illinois. 

EGGPLANT  FRITTERS 

Wash  a  medium  sized  eggplant  and  cook  in  salted  water  until  soft. 
Make  a  fritter  batter  of 

1  Yi  cups  flour  yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  ^  cup  milk 

1  egg 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  milk  gradually  and  egg  well- 
beaten.   Mash  eggplant  and  remove  large  pieces  of  skin.   Add  warm 
eggplant  to  batter  and  beat  mixture  until  thoroughly  mixed.    Fry 
either  in  deep  fat  or  in  a  large  amount  of  fat  in  a  frying  pan. 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evanston,  III. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT 

(Southern  Style) 
1  eggplant  1  egg,  beaten 

1  small  onion,  chopp>ed  fine  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  or  3  tablespoons  bread  crumbs       1  teaspoon  salt 

Scoop  out  eggplant  and  soak  in  salt  water  one  hour.  Pour  off  water 
and  parboil  >^  hour.  Mix  with  egg,  butter,  salt,  onion  and  bread 
crumbs  and  refill  shell.  Bake  in  pan  with  a  little  water  30  to  40 
minutes. 

Elizabeth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

30 


BAKED  ASPARAGUS 

1  bunch  fresh  asparagus  yi  teaspxx)n  pepper 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  butter 
yi  cup  dried  buttered  crumbs  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  milk  4  hard  cooked  eggs 
yi  cup  grated  cheese  1  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  or  steam  asparagus  until  tender;  drain  and  cut  in  1-inch  pieces. 
Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk,  seasonings  and  crumbs.  Put  a 
layer  of  asparagus  in  bottom  of  casserole;  add  sauce  and  hard 
cooked  eggs,  chopped.  Repeat  until  'dish  is  filled.  Sprinkle  with 
dried  buttered  crumbs,  mixed  with  the  cheese.  Bake  about  20 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evanston,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 
CREOLE  SPAGHETTI 
1  large  pkg.  Red  Cross  Spaghetti     %  cup  melted  butter 
Boil    together    2    onions,    I    lb.     1  can  tomatoes 
chopped  beef  Salt  and  paprika 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Cook  ^  of  an  hour ;  last  five  minutes  add  1  large  can  mushrooms  if 
desired.  Mix  with  spaghetti.   Put  on  platter.  Sprinkle  with  cheese. 
Put  in  oven  till  cheese  is  melted.    Serves  eight. 

Ella  Brown,  Evanston,  Illinois. 
Northwestern  University. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES 

4  tablespoons  grated  cheese       H  cup  chopped  ham 
2  cups  boiled  macaroni  (chop) 
Mix  with  sauce.    Pour  on  buttered  platter  and  let  cool  several 
hours.   Cut  into  squares  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Sauce 
1  teaspoon  butter  1  teaspoon  flour 

3^  cup  sweet  milk 
Cook  until  thick  and  season.    (Serves  four.) 

Frances  Morris,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 
MACARONI  OR  SPAGHETTI  WITH 
TOMATO  SAUCE 
1  package  of  macaroni  or       ]4:  pound  of  bacon  (cut  fine) 

spaghetti  1  onion  (cut  fine) 

1  green  pepper  (cut  fine)  1  small  can  of  tomatoes 

Pinch  of  sugar  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cook  macaroni  or  spaghetti  in  rapidly  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender;  drain,  rinse  in  cold  water  and  drain  again.  In  another  pan 
fry  the  finely  cut  bacon;  add  the  onions  and  green  pepper  and  fry 
again.  Add  the  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  sugar  to 
this  mixture  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  When  boiling  add  to  it  a  gravy 
made  of  the  flour,  butter  and  sufficient  water  to  make  it  smooth. 
Pour  this  mixture  made  in  the  frying  pan  over  the  macaroni  or 
spaghetti.    (Serves  eight.) 

Myrtle  Meyer,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
SPANISH  RICE 
Fry  several  minutes  in  casserole  two  tablespoons  rice,  one  onion 
sliced  and  two  tablespoons  butter.    Add  one  pint  of  tomatoes  and 
one  green  pepper  and  season.   Bake  until  rice  is  soft. 

Virginia  Stevenson  Mershon,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Syracuse  University. 


COLLEGE         WOMANS         COOK         BOOK 

31 


MACARONI  LOAF 

1  cup  hot  milk,  over  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  cooked  macaroni  cut 

fine  (or  Creamettes) 
Little  onion  juice 
Salt 


1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  green  pepper  cut  fine  or 

put  through  grinder 
3  well  beaten  eggs 


Bake  in  a  pan  set  in  another  pan  of  hot  water,  as  for  custards.  Pimen- 
toes  and  parsley  may  be  added  if  desired.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Eliza  Dickey  Manning,  Wayzata,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

10  good  sized  peppers  with       2  large  ears  of  corn 


tops  cut  off 
4  medium-sized  tomatoes 
1  green  pepper 
1  tablespoon  butter 


1  onion 

Handful  of  bread  crumbs  (or 
more  according  to  mois- 
ture) 


Season  to  suit  taste  with  pepper  and  salt 
Chop  the  onions,  tomatoes  and  pepper  fine.  Add  }i  pound  of 
Hamburg"  steak  (or  leftover  roast)  to  the  chopped  ingredients  and 
mix  all  together.  Make  about  the  consistency  of  turkey  dressing. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce,  grated  cheese,  and  ripe  olives. 

Alice  M.  Johns,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

VEGETABLE  LOAF  (LEFTOVERS) 

Essentials 
1  cup  cooked  tomatoes  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  each  salt  and  sage    1  cup  uncooked  sausage  (K 
And  onion  if  desired  pound) 

Add  any  other  leftovers  you  happen  to  have,  such  as  cooked  pota- 
toes, carrots,  peas,  beans  or  moistened  stale  bread.  Enough  to  fill 
a  loaf  tin.    Bake  about  one  hour. 

Vesta  B.  Simpson,  Winnetka,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

BOSTON  ROAST 
Cook  two  cups  dry  kidney  beans  until  tender,  or  use  one  can  of 
kidney  beans.  Chop  beans,  add  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  cups 
grated  cheese,  one  tablespoon  onion.  Salt  to  taste.  Bake  with  slices 
of  bacon  on  top  of  loaf  until  firm.  Baste  occasionally  with  hot 
water  and  fat.   Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 
Heat  one  can  tomatoes  and  one  teaspoon  minced  onion.     Rub 
through  sieve.   Melt  one  tablespoon  fat,  add  two  tablespoons  flour 
and  seasoning  of  one  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper.    Add  tomato,  cook 

ten  minutes.  •  ^    ,      t->       j     t 

Eleanor  Svoboda,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 

Coe  College. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER  WITH  HAM 

1  head  of  cauliflower  3  well  beaten  eggs 

2  cups  of  white  sauce  %  cup  of  finely  chopped 

cooked  ham 
Trim  the  cauliflower  and  boil  it  in  boiling  salted  water  until  it  is 
tender;  drain  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  eggs  and  one  cup- 
ful of  the  white  sauce  to  the  cauliflower  and  pour  the  mixture  into 
a  buttered  mold.  Bake  until  firm.  'Turn  out  on  a  hot,  flat  dish, 
cover  with  remainder  of  the  sauce  and  sprinkle  over  with  the  ham. 

Louise  Brownell,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 
Coe  College. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK         B    OOK 


32 


BEANS  A  LA  TOMATO 

1  pint  navy  beans  I  tablespcxDn  sugar 

1  pint  tomatoes  1  onion 

1  cup  cream  Salt 

Pepper 
Pour  off  most  of  the  water  after  cooking  beans.    Add  other  ingre- 
dients, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Cook  all  together  till  onion  is 
tender.    Brown  in  oven.    (Serves  six.) 

Vesta  Knott  Larrimore,  Tipton,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

GREEN  STRING  BEANS 
(A  LA  SOUTHERN) 

String,  snap  and  wash  beans.  Put  beans  in  kettle,  salt,  cover  with 
water  and  strips  of  bacon.  Add  three  or  four  medium  sized  onions 
and  boil  for  two  hours,  or  until  beans  are  very  tender.  Beans  are 
best  when  cooked  very  slow  but  need  to  be  watched  carefully. 

Marion  Spangler,  Bradford,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

CORN  TAMALE 

1  can  corn  yi  can  tomatoes 

1  cup  yellow  cornmeal  1  teaspoon  Grandma's  pep- 

1  bottle  stuffed  olives  pers  (spice) 

1  cup  milk  1  clove  garlic 

Salt  to  taste 
Mix  and  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven, 

Rita  Benedict,  Lodi,  Calif. 
^  University  of  California. 

SQUASH  MASH 

Beat  two  or  three  eggs.  Stir  into  eggs,  one  cup  grated  cheese,  a  little 
garlic,  parsley,  and  green  pepper  chopped  fine.  Add  a  slice  of  soaked 
bread,  a  little  sweet  marjoram,  one  tablespoon  olive  oil,  and  salt. 
To  this  add  squash  after  it  has  been  boiled  tender.  Bake  in  drip- 
ping pan  until  brown. 
A  good  way  to  serve  the  leftover  vegetables. 

Alice  M.  Johns,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

VEGETABLE  CHOP  SUEY 

1  cup  spaghetti  1  can  tomatoes 

1  large  onion  yi  cup  celery 

yi  cup  meat — fresh  or  left-overs 
Boil  spaghetti  in  salted  water  until  tender.    Drain  and  rinse  with 
cold  water.    Add  to  remainder  of  mixture,  which  has  been  prepared 
in  meantime.    Put  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  one-half  hour. 
Stuffed  olives  are  a  good  addition.    (Serves  four.) 

Winifred  Montgomery,  Marseilles,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

Wash  and  cut  in  half  six  ripe  unpeeled  tomatoes.  Place  in  frying 
pan,  cut-side  up.  Season  each  tomato  with  yi  teaspoonful  sugar  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  little  water  in  bottom  of  pan  and  boil  slowly 
until  tomatoes  are  tender.  Then  remove  tomatoes  to  a  platter  and 
X)il  down  juice  until  brown.  Add  four  level  tablespoons  butter, 
our  level  tablespoons  flour,  and  two  cups  of  milk.  Make  like  cream 
sauce,  and  pour  over  tomatoes  and  serve. 

Margaret  Dow,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

33 


■  — " Ur-'nJ 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Remove  skin  of  onions.  Parboil  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted  wate» 
to  cover,  turn  upside  down  to  cool.  Then  remove  part  of  center 
Fill  cavities  with  equal  parts  of  equally  fine  chopped  cooked  chickea 
or  meat,  stale  bread  crumbs  and  onion  that  has  been  removed 
from  onion  shells.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with 
cream  or  melted  butter,  place  in  a  shallow  buttered  baking  pan. 
Sprinkle  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  onions  are  sof*:. 

Frances  Linn,  Sumner,  la. 
Iowa  State  College. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

.Soak  one  pound  of  navy  beans  twelve  hours.  Drain.  Place  in  a 
three-quart  earthen  receptacle.  Add  four  tablespoons  of  brown 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  one  bottle  of  catsup,  one  sliced  onion, 
yi  pound  of  bacon,  sliced.  Fill  the  receptacle  with  cold  water. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  keep  at  boiling  point  for  twelve  hours.  Bake 
until  dry. 

Edith  V.  Grupe,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 
University  of  Buffalo, 

SPINACH 

2  pounds  spinach  v         Salt 

1  onion  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  fat  '  Paprika 

1  tablespoon  flour  }4  cup  water 

Boil  spinach  till  tender.  Drain  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Put  on 
chopping  board  and  chop  very  fine.  While  spinach  is  boiling,  heat 
fat  and  put  In  finely  chopped  onion.  Heat  onion  slowly  so  it  gets 
soft  without  getting  fried.  When  onion  is  soft,  add  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  seasonings.  Add  water.  Stir  thoroughly  till  blended. 
Put  in  spinach  and  let  cook  gently  for  five  minutes. 

Pent!  Shelton,  Chicago,  III. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

CARROT  TIMBALES 

Wash  and  scrape  carrots.  Cut  in  thin  slices  lengthwise.  There 
should  be  one  quart,  packed  solidly.  Cook  in  two  tablespoons  of 
butter,  stirring  constantly,  for  ten  minutes.  Then  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  or  stock  and  cook  until  soft.  Drain  and  force  through 
strainer.  Add  two  whole  eggs  and  one  egg  yolk  slightly  beaten. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  buttered  timbale  moulds  two 
thirds  full  and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  egg  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 
Set  in  pan  of  hot  water.     Bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Marion  Edgarton  Simpson,  Fulton,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

SPAGHETTI  A  LA  NEW  ORLEANS 

1  }4  pounds  spaghetti  1 14  pounds  beef 

I  can  tomatoes  I  small  onion 

3  small  cloves  of  garlic  I  slice  salt  pork 

]4  pound  grated  cheese 
Chop  pork,  put  in  pan;  when  hot  put  in  meat;  sear  well  and  brown; 
add  chopped  onion,  garlic,  parsley.    When  onion  is  yellow  add  a 
little  water  and  let  simmer. 

Cook  tomatoes  separately  to  one-half  its  contents.     Add  meat, 
season,  cook  until  meat  is  tender. 
To  four  quarts  water  (boil)  add  spaghetti  and  gravy  and  cheese. 

Charlotte  Dines,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK^ 

34 


BAKED  SQUASH 

1  large  onion  (cut  up  fine)  2  pieces  garlic  (cut  up  fine) 

%  bell  pepper  (cut  up  fine)  Small  cup  parsley  (cut  up  fine) 
1  tablespoon  lard 
Melt  lard  and  fry  above  ingredients.  Boil  squash  cut  in  halves. 
When  soft  scoop  out  interior;  mix  with  other  ingredients  in  frying 
pan,  and  add  about  2  slices  of  soaked  bread.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
fry  a  long  time.  Fill  shells  of  squash  with  this  mixture.  Put  bread 
crumbs  on  top  of  all  and  bake  in  oven  for  about  20  minutes. 

Blanche  Bobbitt,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

FRIED  RICE 

Orie  generous  cup  boiled  rice.  Dice  two  or  three  slices  of  bacon, 
fry,  add  one-half  onion  cut  fine — fried  brown.  Add  rice,  then  push 
all  that  to  one  side  in  the  pan.  Beat  two  eggs  well  and  fry  in  same 
pan.   Scramble  all  together.   Salt.    Serve  at  once. 

Mildred  Hadley  Baker,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
SPANISH  RICE 
Wash  one  cup  rice.  Cook  in  one  tablespoon  of  butter  until  coated. 
Add  two  cups  strained  tomato  juice,  two  cups  water,  and  one  onion 
chopped  fine.  Salt  and  pepper.  Add  pimentoes  and  celery  if  de- 
sired.   Bake  two  hours.    Serves  eight. 

Edith  Whaples,  Neponset,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
ONIONS  AND  TOMATOES 
Slice  onion  and  cook  in  water  with  a  very  little  red  sweet  pepper  or 
chili  pepper,  until  soft.  Use  no  more  water  than  necessary  to  cook 
the  onion  soft.  Add  to  boiling  tomatoes  in  about  the  proportion  of 
a  tablespoonful  of  the  cooked  onion  to  a  cup  of  the  boiling  tomatoes. 
Add  a  very  small  pinch  of  salt  and  four  or  five  times  as  much  sugar, 
and  a  little  butter.  Marion  Brown  Comeliussen, 

University  of  Illinois. 
EGG  PLANT  A  LA  CREOLE 
Peel  egg  plant  and  dice  large.  Cover  with  clear  cold  water  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Then  grain  and  add  a  little  salt  and  enough  fresh  water 
to  cook  nearly  soft.  When  nearly  soft  and  still  hot,  add  hot  tomato 
sauce  and  simmer  till  soft  or  put  in  fireless  cooker.  Let  stand  awhile 
to  mellow  before  serving. 

Tomato  Sauce 
Fry  some  sliced  bacon,  then  drain  the  bacon  and  use  the  fat  to  fry 
some  onion,  stirring  all  the  time.  Fry  until  golden  brown  and  soft. 
At  the  same  time  have  tomatoes  with  a  little  sweet  pepper  or  chili 
pepper,  simmering.  Crush  the  bacon  very  small,  add  to  the  toma- 
toes, and  then  add  the  fried  onion  while  hot.  Be  sure  the  tomatoes 
and  onions  are  both  hot  when  they  are  put  together. 

Marion  Brown  Comeliussen, 
University  of  Illinois. 
HARVARD  BEETS  OR  FRENCH  BEETS 

2  cups  cooked  beets  Yi  tablespoon  sugar 

Y2  cup  vinegar  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

3  tablespoons  butter  Salt 

Black  pepper 
Cut  cooked  beets  in  strips  or  cubes.  Make  sauce  of  other  ingredients. 
When  done  add  beets,  heat  and  serve.    If  vinegar  is  strong  use  less 
and  dilute  it  with  water. 

Doris  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  ./\gricultural  College. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

35  ^ 


SCALLOPED  EGGPLANT 

Peel  and  cut  into  short  strips,  place  in  cold  salt  water  lor  one  hour. 
Boil  until  clear  and  soft,  but  not  broken.  Drain,  put  strips  in  but- 
tered baking  dish.  Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  then  layer  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full.  Make  last  layer  thicker 
than  others,  and  soak  with  cream.  Bake  covered  one-half  hour, 
then  remove  cover  to  brown. 

Ella  Record,  Cambridge,  III. 
University  of  Illinois. 

SPANISH  RICE 

One  large  onion  chopped  fine  and  fried  in  brown  grease.  One  cup 
rice — cook  well  and  dry.  Boil  two  cups  tomatoes  and  i^  teaspoon 
red  pepper  together.  Mix  all.  Season  with  salt.  Add  one  teaspoon 
of  butter.    Bake  until  thoroughly  heated. 

Blanche  Bobbitt,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

SCALLOPED  CARROTS  AND  TOiMATOES 

Slice  carrots  and  tomatoes  and  lay  in  casserole,  first  a  layer  of  one, 
then  the  other,  with  addition  of  finely  chopped  onion.  Add  a  little 
water  and  lay  several  strips  ol  bacon  over  top  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

Jeanette  Moore,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

CABBAGE  SLAW 

Chop  very  fine  in  chopping  bowl  Yi  head  white  cabbage,  5^  green 
pepper,  one  small  onion,  four  stalks  celery  and  one  medium  size 
carrot  (all  raw  vegetables).  Salt  to  taste  and  mix  well  with  dressing 
made  of  Yi  cup  granulated  sugar  and  }/^  cup  cider  vinegar  (dilute 
if  very  strong) . 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 
University  of  Michigan. 

BAKED  PARSNIPS 

Boil  parsnips  until  soft.  Drain  off  water  and  mash  smooth.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  turn  into  a  small  buttered  baking  dish. 
Cover  with  rolled  crackers  and  pieces  of  butter.  Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Helen  R.  Murray,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

6  medium  sized  tomatoes  2  tablespHX)ns  melted  butter 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoon  salt 

3^  teaspoon  pepper 
Wash  tomatoes,  cut  thin  slices  from  stem  end  of  each,  take  out  seeds 
and  pulp  and  drain  off  most  of  the  liquid.  Mix  the  crumbs,  butter 
and  seasoning  and  add  to  tomato  pulp.  Sprinkle  inside  of  tomato 
cup  with  salt  and  pepper.  Refill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture. 
Place  in  a  buttered  pan.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Note:  Chopped  meat,  oysters,  green  peppers,  sweet  com  or  celery 
may  be  added  to  the  stuffing. 

Cora  Wendt,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOO    K 

36 


STUFFED  PEPPERS  WITH  CHEESE 


6  green  peppers 
43^  tablespoons  rice 

(uncxx)ked) 
^  tablespoons  flour 
3. 


^  cup  grated  cheese 
Onion  juice 
1  Yi  teaspoons  salt 
3  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 
^8   cup   tomato  juice 
Cook  rice  and  add  flour  (which  has  been  mixed  well  with  tomato 
juice),  tomato  and  onion  juices,  salt  and  crumbs.     Mix  well  and 
place  inside  peppers.    Put  grated  cheese  on  top.    Bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  45  minutes. 

Doris  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 


CABBAGE  AU  GRATIN 

^  head  cabbage  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

y^  cup  white  sauce  2^^  teaspoons  salt 

3  tablespoons  cheese  Pepper 

4^  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

White  Sauce 

%  cup  milk  1  Yz  tablespoons  flour 

1  Yi  tablespoons  fat  3^  teaspoon  salt 

Make  white  sauce  in  double  boiler.  In  a  casserole,  put  in  alternate 
layers  of  finely  chopped  cabbage,  white  sauce  and  crumbs,  Season. 
Grate  cheese  on  top  and  put  in  hot  oven  long  enough  for  cheese  to 
melt.     Serves  six. 

Katherine  Lytle,  Wellesley,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 

FRANCONIA  POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  small  potatoes  and  cook  until  almost  done.  Drain 
and  let  stand  until  cold.  Heat  frying  pan  and  put  in  a  large  amount 
of  fat.  When  hot,  add  potatoes  and  fry  until  a  golden  brown. 
Remove  from  fire  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot. 
Note:  Potatoes  may  be  immersed  in  fat  and  fried  as  doughnuts, 
but  frying  pan  method  produces  just  as  good  results. 

Charlotte  Geer  Wilcox,  Stockbridge,  Mass. 
Wesleyan  University. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 

37 


COOK 


BOOK 


Salads  SP  T>ressings 

GCX)D  SALAD  TO  SERVE  WITH  BAKED  FISH 

2  oranges  (cut  into  small  sections)        Yi  cup  chopped  celery 

Y2  cup  boiled  salad  dressing 

Josephine  Eddy,  Evanston,  III. 
Michigan  Agriculture  College. 

TUNA  FISH  SALAD 

Six  or  eight  potatoes  diced,  one  can  tuna  fish,  one  cup  chopped 
celery,  add  little  cucumber,  three  tablespoons  chopped  green  pepper 
or  parsley,  moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Season  to  taste.  Serve  on 
cup  shaped  leaves  of  lettuce.     Garnish  with  radish  roses. 

Ethel  Krauter  Bell,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

TOMATO  TUNA  FISH  SALAD 

1  envelope  gelatine,  soaked  in  Y2  cup  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  Pint  can  tomatoes 

Salt  tomatoes  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.  Add  gelatine  and  vinegar. 
When  dissolved  strain.  When  chilled  enough  that  it  begins  to  set, 
add  small  can  of  Tuna  fish,  flaked.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into 
mold  dipped  in  cold  water.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

Ruth  M.  Bielby,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

SALMON  SALAD 

I  can  salmon  Yi  cup  celery 

Yi  cup  olives  Yi  tablespoons  onion  juice 

3  hard  cooked  eggs  Y2  cup  English  walnuts 

Use  a  cooked  dressing.  Mix  everything  just  before  adding  salmon. 
Do  this  by  tossing  the  materials  with  a  fork.  Be  careful  that  pieces 
of  salmon  are  not  too  fine  or  mushy.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Jessie  Richman,  Villa  Grove,  III. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

MOULDED  SALMON  SALAD 

1  can  or  I  cup  salmon  2  eggs 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  3^  cup  milk 

Yi  tablespoon  mustard  yi  cup  vinegar 

Cayenne  I  Yi  tablespoons  gelatine 

yi  cup  cold  water 
Make  soft  custard  of  milk,  eggs,  dry  ingredients  and  vinegar. 
Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  custard.    Add  salmon. 
Mould,  chill  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Irene  Madill,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 

CRAB  SALAD  LOAF 

1  cup  crab  meat  I  cup  whipping  cream 

I  cup  cabbage  Yi  cup  mayonnaise 

I  cup  celery  1  tablespoon  gelatine 

Cut  up  crab  meat  into  small  pieces.  Chop  celery  and  cabbage. 
Whip  the  cream  and  add  the  mayonnaise  and  gelatine  which  has 
been  dissolved  over  hot  water.  Combine  with  celery,  cabbage  and 
crab.  Place  in  wet  mold  and  chill  thoroughly.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Margaret  Stout  Keeley,  Tillamook,  Ore. 
Universitv  of  Minnesota. 


COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

38 


SALMON  LOAF  WITH  CUCUMBER  SAUCE 

(Excellent  Summer  Dish) 

Soak  ^  tablespoon  gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  cold  water  and  stir 
this  into  2  tall  cans  of  salmon — flaked.  Make  the  following  boiled 
dressing  and  stir  into  the  above  and  then  pour  into  loaf  tin  to  set: 

1  tablespoon  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  Yolks  of  2  raw  eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour  }/i  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard  Dash  of  paprika 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE 

Whip  1  bottle  cream,  add  salt  and  paprika  Gradually  stir  in  2 
tablesp>oons  vinegar  and  Y2  cucumber  which  has  been  diced  and 
drained. 

Margaret  Chase  Schmidt,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CRAB  SALAD 

Remove  meat  from  two  fresh  crabs  leaving  pieces  as  large  as  possible. 
For  dressing  take  one  cup  of  mayonnaise  to  which  add : 

yi  cup  of  catsup  yi  teaspoon  prepared  mus- 

%  cup  minced  celery  tard 

yi  cup  minced  green  peppers        yi  teaspoon  horseradish 
Mix  well  and  pour  over  crab  meat.     Garnish  with  fresh  tomatoes 
and  hard  cooked  eggs. 

Leah  Kahn,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

Prepare  shrimps  by  cutting  into  small  pieces.  Add  one-half  cup 
cold  peas,  one-half  cup  celery  cut  fine.  Mix  well  with  mayonnaise 
and  Serve  on  lettuce. 

Mabel  Osborne,  Pasadena,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

1  pint  canned  tomatoes  1  large  tablespoon  gelatine 

Salt  and  red  pepper  >^  cup  finely  chopped  cel- 

1  cup  chopped  white  grapes  ery 

and  nutmeats  1  green  pepper,  shredded 

Stew  and  strain  tomatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper.  Add 
other  ingredients  and  mold.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Thorborg  Swenson,  Rockford,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

SHAMROCK  SALAD 
(Six  Servings) 

3  green  peppers  6  stuffed  olives 
1  cup  cream  cheese                     Lettuce 

Stuff  well  washed  and  scraped  peppers  with  cheese  seasoned  and 
mixed  with  chopped  olives.  Chill  one  hour.  Cut  in  slices,  serving 
three  or  four  on  each  leaf  of  lettuce. 

Ruth  Kennish,  Kewanee,  III. 
Iowa  State  College. 

BEET  A^JD  CELERY  SALAD 

Boil  and  pickle  four  medium  sized  beets.  Clean  one  large  bunch  of 
celery.  Dice  beets  and  celery  together.  Mix  with  salad  dressing. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.     Sprinkle  with  nuts.     Serves  six. 

Edith  V.  Grupe,  Buffalo.  N.  Y. 
University  of  Buffalo. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

39 


KIDNEY  BEAN  SALAD 

3  stalks  celery  1  dozen  sweet  pickles 

1  can  kidney  beans 
Dressing 
2  tablespoons  vinegar  y^  te^aspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  (scant)  mustard 
Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  vinegar  to  them.     Bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  cool  slightly  and  add  egg  well  beaten.     Bring  to  boiling 
point  again,  stirring  constantly.     Cool,  pour  over  salad  and  serve. 

Fern  Mauer,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesley  an  University. 
PEA  SALAD 

1  can  peas  6  small  radishes — red 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  K  cup  diced  cheese 

3  sweet  pickles  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Chop  or  slice  eggs,  pickles,  and  radishes.  Add  a  little  salt  to  peas. 
Combine  all  ingredients  together  with  mayonnaise. 

Gladys  Pierce,  Greencastle,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 
ROBIN'S  EGG  SALAD 
(Six  Servings) 
1  cup  cream  cheese  Minced  parsley 

>^  cup  almond  meats  Shredded  lettuce 

In  a  nest  of  shredded  lettuce,  place  five  or  six  small  balls  of  cheese 
rolled  in  parsley,  an  almond  being  placed  in  the  center  of  each  ball. 
Serve  with  French  dressing. 

Helen  Vinson,  Algona,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 
EGG  LILY  SALAD 
Cut  whites  of  hard  cooked  eggs  from  small  end  nearly  to  base,  into 
six  or  eight  petals.     Do  this  while  the  eggs  are  still  warm  to  prevent 
egg  white  from  breaking. 
Arrange  each  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Mix  yolks  with  a  good  salad  dressing,  form  mixture  into  cone  shaped 
balls,  and  place  in  center  of  the  whites. 

Around  the  edge  of  yellow  ball  sprinkle  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Now  put  a  little  cone  of  salad  dressing  at  one  side  and  a  green  olive 
to  represent  buds,  and  the  result  is  a  most  attractive  dish. 

Katherine  Jeanne  Flanagan,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
CART  WHEEL  SALAD 
Gut  tomato  down  about  one  half  way.     Take  sliced  cucumber  and 
place  in  each  division.     Place  on  cup  shaped  lettuce  leaf.     Serve 
with  oil  mayonnaise. 

Poinsetta  Salad  is  made  in  the  same  way  only  cutting  down  farther 
and  separating  each  section.  Cut  strips  of  cucumber  or  celery  and 
put  in  between  each  section  radiating  from  the  center.  Garnish 
with  a  salad  dressing  in  the  center  and  a  dash  of  paprika. 

Dorothy  Dehde,  Long  Beach,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 
CUCUMBER  SALAD 
1  package  lemon  jello  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

^  pint  boiling  water  Pinch  of  salt 

1  medium  sized  cucumber  cut  in  squares 
Pour  water  on  jello,  add  vinegar  and  salt.    When  jelly  is  cool  drop 
in  cucumber.    Serve  with  chopped  sweet  green  peppers,  and  pimentos 
-and  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Marian  Medland,  Toronto,  Can. 
University   of  Toronto. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

40 


PINEAPPLE  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

1  flat  can  grated  pineapple  (half  size)    Juice  of  two  lemons 
1  cucumber  (about  6  inches  long)  ]/2  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  (1  envelope  Knox) 
Soak  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water.    Add  to  hot  fruit  juice  in 
which  sugar  has  been  dissolved.     Chop  fruit  fine.     Mix.     Pour  in 
mold  and  chill.    Serve  with  mayonnaise.     Serves  ten. 

Russella  Cooper  Hoven,  Chatfield,  Minn. 
University   of   Minnesota. 

FRUIT  CHEESE  SALAD 

6  dates  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

3  figs  1  scant  cup  cream  cheese 

)/2  cup  blanched  almonds  Pinch  salt 

(chopped) 
Mix  ingredients  to  a  paste  and  make  into  balls,  serve  four  to  each 
person  on  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves,  with  a  mayonnaise  to  which  has 
been  added  an  equal  quantity  of  whipF>ed  cream. 

Colette  Humphrey,  Jamaica,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 
CHEESE  SALAD 
Line  bread  pan  with  an  inch  layer  of  tomato  aspic  jelly;  let  harden 
slightly;  cover  with  inch  layer  of  cottage  cheese  and  continue 
alternating  jelly  and  cheese  until  pan  is  filled.  Mould.  Cut  in  slices 
and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 

Cassia  Wells  Woods,  Phoenix,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 
(For  tomato  aspic  jelly  see  Gladys  A.  Hanna's  recipe — Syracuse^.  Y.) 

SILVER  SALAD 

Rernove  skin  and  seeds  from  white  grapes  and  add  equal  amount  of 
chopped  celery  and  nuts.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  to  which  whipped 
cream  has  been  added.  Garnish  with  maraschino  cherry  and  lettuce. 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 

University  of  Michigan. 
PEACH  SALAD 
yi  peach  on  lettuce  leaf  1  cup  peach  juice,  thickened 

1  cup  whipped  cream  with  flour 

When  cold  add : 

1  )/2  cups  diced  celery  1  cup  chopped  salted  aimonds 

Mix  with  thickened  juice  and  cream  and  fill  in  )4  of  peach.  Garnish 
with  cherries  if  desired. 

Janet  Baughman,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 

LUNCHEON  DELIGHT 

One  cup  chopped  pimentos  or  olives,  one  half  cup  chopped  almonds; 
added  to  two  cups  well  seasoned  cottage  cheese ;  place  lettuce  leaves 
(x\  large  platter;  place  pears  quartered  all  around  and  in  the  center 
pile  the  cottage  cheese  mixed  with  olives,  pimentos  and  nuts ;  garnish 
with  long  narrow  strips  of  red  pimento. 

Margaret  Taylor,  Kewanee,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

PEAR  SALAD 

Use  either  fresh  or  canned  p>ears,  halved.  Fill  the  center  with  a 
mixture  of  ground  dates,  nuts,  maraschino  cherries  and  salad  dress- 
ing. Sprinkle  mild  ground  cheese  over  whole,  and  garnish  with 
whole  cherries. 

Brad  Coppinger  Kruger,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

COLLEGE         WOMANS         COOK         BOOK 

41 


JEWEL  SALAD 

yi  envelope  gelatine,  soaked  in  yi  cup  cold  water. 
Pare,  chop  and  drain  cucumber.     There  should  be  yi  cup.    Chop 
and  drain  yi  cup  pineapple.     Add  gelatine,  dissolved  in  yi  cup 
boiling  water.     Then  add  following  ingredients: 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar 

yi  cup  vinegar  (may  be  omitted) 

Yi  cup  pineapple  syrup  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Few  grains  salt 
Turn  into  individual  molds,  dipped  in  cold  water.    Chill.    Serve  on 
lettuce  leaf  with  salad  dressing. 

Edith  Crounse  Kolb,  Bethlehem,  Pa. 
Syracuse  University. 
ARGYLE  SALAD 
(Apricot) 
Dressing : 

4  egg  yolks  beaten  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  butter  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Little  red  pepper 
Mix  together  in  double  boiler  and  cook  for  five  minutes  after  it 
begins  to  thicken.  Stir  constantly.  When  cool  add  one  cup  whipped 
cream,  twelve  marshmallows  cut  fine  and  one-half  cup  cut  pecans. 
Drain  one  can  of  apricots.  Arrange  halves  on  lettuce  leaves  arxi 
serve  with  above  dressing.     This  serves  eight. 

Bemice  Woehler  Taylor,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 
•  BLACK  CHERRY  SALAD 

1  can  black  cherries  Small  quantity  of  blanched 

Small  bottle  pimento  stuffed  almonds 

olives  2  boxes  lemon  jello. 

Take  juice  from  cherries,  add  enough  water  to  make  a  quart  of 
liquid.  Bring  this  to  boiling  point  and  dissolve  jello  in  it.  Cool, 
add  pitted  cherries,  olives  sliced  in  thin  slices  and  the  half  almonds. 
Pour  in  shallow  pan  and  when  cold  cut  in  squares  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  salad  dressing. 

Patra  M.  Houg,  Princeton,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

.   PRUNE  SALAD 

Large  prunes  Chopped  nuts 

Creamed  cheese  Lettuce 

Mayonnaise  or  oil  dressing 
Stuff  prunes  with  creamed  cheese  and  nuts.    Serve  in  lettuce  nests 
with  desired  dressing 

Gladys  Becker  Murphy,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

FROZEN  SALAD 

^  pound  green  grapes  1  teaspoon  Knox  gelatine 

^  pound  English  walnuts  1  tablespoon  sugar 

3^  pound  almonds  ^  pint  maraschino  cherries 

1  cup  salad  dressing  1  piece  orange  peel  to  taste 

Method:  Cut   fine   the   seeded   grapes,    cherries   and   nut   meats. 

Grind  oranges  and  a  small  piece  of  citron.     Dissolve  gelatine;  whip 

cream  and  add  to  salad  dressing  and  fruit  mixture.     Put  in  mould. 

Let  it  stand  four  hours.     (Put  piece  of  oil  paper  in  mould  as  it  helps 

to  get  it  out.) 

Helen  G.  Burgert,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa 

Coe  College. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

42 


E 


CHERRY  SALAD 

1  package  lemon  jello  1  cup  chopped  celery 

1  quart  can  red  cherries  Small  bottle  pimento  olives 

Y2  cup  broken  black  walnuts 
Mix  one  pint  heated  cherry  juice  with  the  jello  (or  cherry  juice  and 
water) ;  when  beginning  to  harden  add  two  cups  strained  cherries, 
walnuts,  one  cup  celery  and  pimento  olives  sliced.  Put  in  indi- 
vidual molds.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  and  whipped 
cream  on  top. 

Margaret  Middlekauf,  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

NIPPY  SALAD 

1  package  lemon  jello  1  stalk  celery 

2  dill  pickles  Y^  cup  English  walnut  meats 
1  apple                                           Y2  pint  mayonnaise 

Cut  jello  in  squares,  place  on  a  lettuce  leaf  on  a  salad  plate.  Cut 
up  pickles,  apple  and  celery.  Mix  together  and  put  a  couple  of 
teaspoonfuls  around  the  jello.  Put  on  mayonnaise  and  sprinkle 
nut  meats  on  the  top. 

Florence  Chestnutt,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 

SALAD 

Slice  top  from  large  i:ed  apple  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Mix  with 
finely  chopped  celery,  broken  walnut  meats,  and  mayonnaise  made 
without  mustard.  Fill  apple  shells,  put  on  lids,  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Leonore  Berlin,  Coudersport,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

DATE  SALAD 

1  pound  dates  1  cup  chopped  apples 

3  oranges  1  cup  chopped  celery 
1  head  lettuce                               Fruit  salad  dressing 

Clean  and  stone  dates,  cut  in  thin  strips;  mix  apples,  celery  and 
half  dates  with  dressing,  place  the  sliced  orange  on  shredded  lettuce, 
spread  evenly  with  apple  and  celery  mixture,  continue  until  all  is 
used,  and  top  with  dressing,  and  garnish  with  the  rest  of  the  dates. 

Margaret  Brainard,  Brookline,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  English  walnuts 
Dates                                           Maraschino  cherries 

Whipped  cream 
Put  lettuce  on  plate,  then  a  slice  of  pineapple,  three  dates  which 
have  been  stuffed  with  walnut  meats  and  rolled  in  powdered  sugar. 
Cover  with  whipped  cream  and  put  a  cherry  on  top. 

Ruth  Palmer,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 

FLUFFY  SALAD 

Cabbage  3  dozen  marshmallows 

2  cups  shredded  pineapple        Yi  pint  of  whipped  cream 

6  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
Salt  six  cups  of  shredded  cabbage  to  taste,  add  two  cups  of  shredded 
pineapple.     Stir  in  the  whipped  cream  to  which  the  mayonnaise  has 
been  added. 

Aloha  Mehl  Carlin,  Goshen,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 


COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK        BOOK 

43 


BUTTERFLY  SALAD 

Take  one  slice  of  pineapple  cut  in  half,  lay  on  lettuce  leaf  so  the  two 
rounded  sides  meet  in  middle.  Take  a  seeded  date  and  use  for 
body  and  broken  Trilby  sticks  or  orange  peel  for  feelers.  F\it 
sliced  stuffed  olive  on  each  comer  of  wings.  Put  a  spoonful  of 
salad  dressing  between  feelers  for  the  honey. 

Florence  Brownell  DeYarman,"  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 

Coe  College. 
TWENTY-FOUR  HOUR  SALAD 
1  large  can  sliced  pineapple       Yolks  of  4  eggs 
Yi  pound  marshmallows  Yi  pint  cream 

1  pound  almonds  (in  shell)        Y2  pint  whipping  cream 

blanched  Pinch  of  salt 

-^  -  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Place  over  fire  in  a  double  boiler  one-half  pint  of  ordinary  cream. 
When  partially  heated,  add  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
pinch  of  salt  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  When  thick,  remove 
from  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

While  this  custard  is  cooling,  drain  the  juice  from  the  pineapple  and 
cut  the  fruit  into  long  slices.     To  the  cut  up  pineapple  add  the  cut 
almonds  and  marshmallows  (each  cut  in  six  pieces). 
Fold  pineapple,  almonds  and  marshmallows  together  with  a  fork. 
Then  pour  over  this  mixture  the  cold  custard.     When  thoroughly 
mixed,  fold  in  one-half  pint  of  whipped  cream. 
A  tablespoon  of  lemon  may  be  added  if  you  prefer. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  until  the  next  day,  or  you  can  make  it  in  the  morn- 
ing and  put  it  in  the  ice-box  until  evening. 
This  serves  from  twelve  to  fifteen  persons. 

Clotilde  Paulson  Walstad,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 
CANDLE  SALAD 
Place  a  slice  of  pineapple  on  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves.  Slice  a  banana 
into  four  parts  lengthwise,  and  stick  one  section  upright  in  the 
hole  in  the  center  of  each  piece  of  pineapple.  Shake  a  spoonful  of 
mayonnaise  and  whipp>ed  cream  mixcjd  over  the  top  of  the  banana 
to  represent  the  wax  of  the  candle  running  down.  Then  on  the  very 
top  place  a  maraschino  cherry  for  the  light. 

Doris  Dyer,  Portland,  Me. 
Boston  University. 
CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  cups  cranberries  2  cups  sugar 

Cook  five  minutes 
Dissolve  one  package  lemon  jello  in  Y^   cup  boiling  water.     Pour 
together  the  cooked  cranberry  and  jello.    Add  one  cup  chopped 
celery;  nuts.    Cool  and  serve  with  salad  dressing. 

Helen  G.  Burgert,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 

Coe  College. 
CALIFORNIA  FRUIT  SALAD 

2  large  slices  of  pineapple  >^  can  wax  cherries 

3  halves  of  pears  %  pound  marshmallows 

3  halves  of  peaches  Y  pint  maraschino  cherries 

1  orange  1  head  lettuce 

1  grapefruit  1  pint  whipped  cream 

Dice  pineapple,  pears,  peaches,  orange,  grapefruit,  and  wax  cher- 
ries and  mix  thoroughly.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with 
whipped  cream,  maraschino  cherries  and  marshmallows.  Color 
scheme  is  red,  buff  and  green  and  makes  an  attractive  salad. 

Margaret  Calder  Leib,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Goucher  College. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

44 


CANTALOUPE  SALAD,  A  LA  MEXICAN  STYLE 

2  cantaloupes  yi  saltspoon  cinnamon 

Salt  1  pint  double  cream 

Paprika  1  teaspoonful  gelatine  >• 

%  cup  bread  crumbs 
Cut  the  edible  portions  of  the  cantaloupes  into  t:-r  ill  pieces.  Sprinkle 
with  seasonings.  Add  the  cream  beaten  very  stiff,  to  which  the 
dissolved  gelatine  has  been  added.  Beat  well  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
When  it  begins  to  set  turn  into  melon  mold,  which  has  been  wet  in 
cold  water.  Bury  in  ice  and  salt  for  at  least  two  hours.  When  ready 
to  serve  wipe  the  mold  with  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  water,  and  turn  on 
a  bed  of  lettuce,  surrounded  with  a  very  delicate,  pink  mayonnaise. 

Emily  M.  Brown,  Honesdale,  Pa. 
Syracuse  University. 

ORANGE  PEANUT  SALAD 

K  cup  peanuts 

Lettuce 
French  dressing 

Remove  skin  from  banana;  scrape,  and  cut  in  quarters  (lengthwise), 
and  thirds  (crosswise),  and  roll  in  peanuts,  finely  chopped.  Pare 
oranges,  cut  in  slices  (crosswise) ;  stamp  out  center,  and  insert  a 
piece  of  banana  through  each  slice.  Arrange  on  bed  of  lettuce, 
and  serve  with  French  dressing. 

Gladys  Duvall,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 


1  banana 

2  oranges 


Yolks  of  2  eggs 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
2  tablesp)oons  vinegar 
1  yi  cups  olive  oil 


1  teaspoon  mustard 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 
Sprinkle  of  cayenne  pepper 

or  paprika 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks  and  when  well  mixed,  add  }4  tea- 
spoon vinegar.  Add  oil  gradually  (drop  by  drop),  beating  constantly. 
As  mixture  thickens,  thin  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Add  oil  and 
vinegar  alternately,  until  all  is  used,  beating  constantly. 
Note:  Dressing  will  separate  if  oil  is  added  too  rapidly.  A  smooth 
consistency  may  be  restored  by  taking  another  egg  yolk  and  slowly 
adding  curdled  mixture  to  it  or  by  adding  the  curdled  mixture  very 
slowly  to  ice  water  (one  teaspoon  to  one  tablespoon — depending  on 
degree  of  separation  of  dressing).  Any  salad  oil  may  be  substituted 
for  olive  oil. 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evanston,  III. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  SALAD  DRESSING 

2  egg  yolks  2  blades  chives  or  a  little 

1  pint  salad  or  olive  oil  onion  juice 
Small  bottle  olives                       Vinegar 

2  canned  red  pimentos  Salt 

2  hard  boiled  eggs  Paprika 

Put  egg  yolks  in  bowl  and  beat  with  either  fork  or  egg  beater.  Then 
add  oil  a  few  drops  at  a  time  beating  constantly.  When  all  the  oil 
is  used  this  mixture  should  be  very  thick.  Then  add  vinegar  to  the 
consistency  of  whipped  cream.  Add  salt  and  paprika  to  taste. 
Then  add  other  ingredients — olives,  pimentos,  eggs  and  chives, 
all  chopped  very  fine. 

Bemice  Grantham,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 


COLLEGE 


W    O    M    A    N 


COOK 


BOOK 


45 


POPULAR  "COOKED"  MAYONNAISE 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  one  cupful  water,  14,  cupful  fiour,  one  table- 
spoonful  salad  oil.  Cook  thoroughly  (atxjut  thirty  minutes)  in  a 
double  boiler.    Place  in  a  bowl 

1  egg  or  2  egg  yolks  1  teaspoonful  mustard 

1  teaspoonful  salt  3^  teaspoonful  paprika 

Mix  the  seasonings  thoroughly  with  the  egg  yolks.  Add  }i  cupful 
of  vinegar  slowly  to  the  mixture.  Pour  one  cupful  of  oil  over  this 
mixture;  do  not  stir.  Then  p>our  the  hot  white  sauce  over  this  mix- 
ture. Beat  with  an  egg  beater  or  wire  whisk  for  three  to  five  min- 
utes. Serve  as  you  would  the  regular  mayonnaise. 
Note:  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cider  vinegar  may  be  substituted  for  the  }4  cup  of  vinegar. 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evanston,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

EGYPTIAN  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  cooked  salad  dressing        1  hard  cooked  egg,  diced  or 
^  cup  olive  oil  sliced 

^2  cup  Heinz  chili  sauce  Dash  of  paprika 

2  or  3  tablespoons  chopped 

green  peppers 
Add  olive  oil  gradually  to  cooked  dressing;  then  add  chili  sauce, 
peppers,  egg  and  paprika.    A  good  dressing  for  head  lettuce  and 
serves  from  four  to  six  persons. 

Cairo  Buchanan  Musberger,  Minneapx)lis,  Minn. 

University  of  Wisconsin. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

}4  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

}4  teaspoon  paprika  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Mix  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended. 

Mildred  Hadley  Baker,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

SALAD  DRESSING  (BoHed) 

1  tablespoon  mustard  yi  teaspoon  white  pepper 

4  tablespoons  flour  }4  cup  vinegar 

6  tablespoons  sugar  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  %  cups  hot  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  in  order  given,  add  vinegar,  beaten  eggs  and 
milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  ready  to  use,  thin 
with  cream.  Marguerite  Rickert  Jones,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

University  of  Wisconsin. 
SALAD  DRESSING 

2  cups  sour  milk  or  cream  1  teaspoon  mustard 
4  eggs                                             1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  to  1  cup        1  teaspoon  pepper 

cream 
Beat  eggs  and  cream.    Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Remove 
from  fire,  cool  and  add  %  cup  vinegar  to  every  cup  sour  cream  used. 

Genevieve  Betts,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

ONE  MINUTE  SALAD  DRESSING  (Uncooked) 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

}/2  cup  melted  butter  1  can  Leder  or  Eagle  Brand 

Salt  condensed  milk 

1  cup  vinegar 

Directions :    Beat  eggs  well,  add  butter,  salt,  mustard,  milk,  and  then 

vinegar.     Beat  well.  LaBeryl  Smart,  Detroit,  Mich. 

University  of  Michigan. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

46 


ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  DRESSING 
(For  Salads) 

6  tablespoons  olive  oil  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  or  i/^  teaspoon  paprika 

lemon  juice  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

Roquefort  cheese 
Stir  well,  or  pour  ingredients  into  a  bottle,  cork,  and  shake  well. 
The  proportions  of  oil  and  vinegar  may  be  reversed  if  desired. 

Marguerite  Rickert  Jones,   St.  Louis,  Mo. 
University   of   Wisconsin. 

SWEET  CREAM  DRESSING 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  butter 

6  tablespoons  sugar  3  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk 

Juice  of  one-half  lemon 
Add  sugar  to  egg  and  whip  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  lemon  juice, 
butter,  and  sweet  milk.    Cook  in  double  boiler,  stir  constantly  until 
thick.    Cool.    Serve  with  any  salad. 

Ruth  Cook,  Poplar  Bluff,  Mo. 
University  of  Missouri. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD  DRESSING 

(For  Fruit  Salad) 

1  }/2  tablespoons  butter  2  eggs 

Yi  cup  sugar  Pineapple  juice 

1  tablespoon  flour  Yi  pint  whipping  cream 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  and  the  beaten  eggs.    Heat  juice 
of  one  large  can  sliced  pineapple  and  add  to  above  mixture.    Cook 
until   thick    (about   three  minutes  over  flame — longer   in  double 
boiler).    Coolandadd  whipped  cream. 
This  makes  dressing  enough  for  salad  for  twelve  people. 

Virginia  Green,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

3^  cup  pineapple  juice  '  1  tablespoon  flour 

34  cup  orange  juice  3  tablespoons  water 

Juice  of  Yz  lemon  1  egg 

}/i  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  whipped  cream 

Scald  fruit  juices,  mix  sugar,  flour  and  water  to  paste.  Add  beaten 
egg,  stir  in  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  ready 
tc  use  add  whipped  cream.     Serves  ten  or  twelve. 

Helen  Bayne,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

47 


Sandwiches  &  Fillings 

PYRAMID  SANDWICH 

Strawberry  jam  Cream  cheese 

Lettuce  Mayonnaise 

Caviar  Bit  of  pimento 

Slice  cucumber  Slice  tomato 

Slice  chicken  Chopped  olives 

Chopped  nuts 
Slice  seven  pieces  sandwich  bread,  remove  crusts,  cutting  each  sue 
cessive  slice  a  little  smaller  than  the  last. 
Bottom  layer:  On  largest  slice  spread  strawberry  jam. 
Next  layer:    Spread  with  cheese,  sprinkle  chopped  nuts  in  center. 
Place  on  first  layer  and  stick  together  with  toothpicks. 
Third  layer:    On  bit  of  lettuce  spread  mayonnaise,  add  slice  of 
tomato.    Place  on  second  layer  and  stick  with  toothpicks. 
Fourth  layer:  On  lettuce  spread  mayonnaise,  add  slice  of  chicken. 
Fasten  on  other  layers  with  toothpicks. 

Fifth  layer:  On  lettuce  spread  mayonnaise,  add  slice  of  cucumber. 
Toothpicks. 

Sixth  layer:    Spread  with  cheese,  sprinkle  with  chopped  olives  in 
center.   Toothpicks. 

Seventh  and  top  layer:    Spread  with  cheese,  sprinkle  caviar  in 
center,  add  bit  of  pimento.    Stick  firmly  with  toothpicks. 

Elizabeth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

DENVER  SANDWICHES 

1  quart  ground  raw  ham  1  cut  ground  onion 
-  6  eggs  beaten  up  (carry  in       Piece  of  butter 

pint  jar) 
Fry  onions  in  butter  until  tender.   Put  in  raw  ham  and  cook  slowly 
until  done,  but  not  very  brown.    Put  in  beaten  eggs  and  cook  until 
right  to  spread  between  slices  of  bread.    Serve  with  coffee.    Good 
for  picnics — cooked  over  open  fire. 

Rhoda  Edmunds  Weingartner,  Kiel,  Wis. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

LUNCHEON  SANDWICHES 

Cut  a  loaf  of  sandwich  bread  lengthwise  into  four  slices.     Cut  off 
outer  crusts.     Between  each  slice  put  a  thick  layer  of  cottage  or 
cream  cheese.    Cover  top  and  sides  with  thick  layer  of  tomato  aspic 
jelly  which  has  been  allowed  to  cool  but  not  become  stiff.     Use  a 
broad  knife  or  spatula  to  manipulate  the  jelly. 
Serve  in  cubes  or  any  desired  shape  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 
Tomato  Aspic  Jelly 
lyi  cups  cooked  tomato  1  slice  of  onion 

Stalk  of  celery  2  tablespoons  gelatine 

2  or  3  cloves  Bay  leaf 

Salt  and  pepper  2  tablespoons  sugar 

\y2  tablespoons  vinegar 
Cxx)k  tomato  and  seasonings  (not  vinegar)  then  strain  into  2  table- 
spoons gelatine,  soaked  in  >2  cup  cold  water  and  dissolved  over  hot 
water.  Add  vinegar  and  pour  into  shallow  pan.  When  beginning 
to  set,  put  in  asparagus  tips,  olives  or  other  cooked  vegetables 
sliced  thin  or  diced. 

Gladys  Adams  Hanna,  Hemlock,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

C    Q    L  "l  JE_G    E        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

48 


TOASTED  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES 

Place  sliced  chicken  between  buttered  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  a 
little  finely  chopped  Roquefort  cheese,  and  toast  on  both  sides  in 
oven.  Marguerite  Rickert  Jones,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

University  of  Wisconsin. 

ST.  PATRICK'S  SANDWICHES 

Cut  the  bread  thin  and  butter  the  slices,  then  spread  cream  cheese 
over  them.  Add  either  finely  chopped  green  peppers  or  chopped 
parsley.  The  latter  can  be  arranged  in  the  shape  of  a  tiny  tree  or 
shamrock.     These  sandwiches  should  be  open  ones. 

Mary  Louise  Brown,  Appleton,  Wis. 
De  Pauw  University. 

SNAPPY  SANDWICHES 

Small  jar  of  peanut  butter  1  green  pepper  (chopped  finely) 

6  slices  of  crisply  fried  and  cooled  bacon  (chopped  finely) 
Mix  these  ingredie.^-ts  with  sufficient  mayonnaise  so  that  it  will  spread 
easily.    This  wJi  make  thirty  sandwiches. 

Mary  Louise  Brown,   Appleton,  Wis. 
De  Pauw  University. 

FAIRMOUNT  SANDWICHES 

Spread  three  oblong  pieces  of  bread  with  butter  on  both  sides, 
two  slices  on  one  side.  Put  together  with  a  mixture  of  chopped 
green  and  red  peppers,  celery  and  mayonnaise.  Wrap  in  cheese 
cloth  and  press  under  a  weight.     Cut  into  slices, 

Bessie  Alford,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

CLOVER  LEAF  SANDWICHES 

2  green  peppers  1  loaf  sandwich  bread 

y2  pound  English  walnut  meats        yi  pound  butter 
1  package  Philadelphia  cream  cheese 
Remove  the  center  of  the  peppers.     Chop  the  walnuts  and  mix 
with  the  cream  cheese.     Fill  the  peppers  with  this  paste  of  cream 
cheese  and  nuts  and  cut  the  peppers  crosswise  in  thick  slices. 
Cut  the  loaf  of  bread  in  thin  slices,  butter  very  sparingly  and  place 
a  slice  of  stuffed  pepper  between  the  bread. 

Margaret  Calder  Leib,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Goucher  College. 
CHECKER  SANDWICHES 
Cut  three  thick  slices  each  of  white  and  brown  bread.  Spread  one 
white  with  butter  and  cream  cheese  and  place  brown  on  it.  Spread 
this  slice  and  place  a  white  slice  on  it.  Repeat  this  process,  starting 
with  a  brown  slice.  Put  each  in  cheese  cloth  under  weights.  Trim 
and  cut  each  in  33^-inch  slices.  Spread  with  butter  and  put  together 
so  that  a  white  block  alternates  with  a  brown.  Press  again  and 
slice  thinly.  Josephine  Eddy,  Evanston,  111. 

Michigan  Agricultural  College. 

DAINTY  SANDWICHES 

Slice  sandwich  bread  thinly. 

Cut  circles  from  the  slices  with  a  cookie  cutter. 

Spread  with  butter;  add  a  slice  of  lettuce  and  cream  cheese. 

Place  a  strip  of  pimento  across  the  center  of  the  slice. 

Cut  a  hole  in  the  upper  slice  about  the  size  of  a  thimble. 

Place  on  top  of  lower  slice  so  that  the  red  pimento  shows  through 

this  hole. 

Helen  C.  Pierson,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
*  Syracuse  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

49 


Ife« 


OLIVE  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES 

One  bottle  of  stuffed  olives  ground  with  enough  walnut  meats  to 
make  about  half  and  half.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  spread  on 
bread  for  sandwiches.  Leona  Smith,  Akron,  Ohio. 

University  of  Akron. 

CHECKERBOARD  SANDWICHES 

Cut  three  slices  each  of  white  and  graham  bread  one-half  inch  thick. 
Spread  a  slice  of  white  bread  with  creamed  butter  and  put  a  slice 
of  graham  on  it;  spread  this  with  creamed  butter  and  put  a  slice  of 
white  on  top.  Repeat,  beginning  with  a  slice  of  graham.  Put  both 
piles  in  a  cool  place  under  a  light  weight.  When  butter  has  become 
firm,  trim  each  pile  evenly  and  cut  each  pile  in  three  one-half-inch 
slices.  Spread  these  with  butter  and  put  together  in  such  a  way  that 
a  white  block  will  alternate  with  a  graham  one.  Place  again  in  a  cool 
place  under  a  weight  and  when  butter  has  become  perfectly  hard, 
cut  in  thin  slices  for  serving. 

Harriette  Fisher  Allen,  Watkins,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

TASTY  SANDWICHES 
(Individual  Service) 

2  slices  of  toast  I  tomato 

1  thick  slice  of  cheese  1  tablespoon  chopped  chives 

Make  toast.  Fry  tomato  in  bacon  drippings  and  place  on  first  slice 
of  toast.  Place  cheese  on  second  slice  and  place  under  broiler  or  in 
hot  oven  until  cheese  melts  and  then  place  on  top  of  tomato  and 
sprinkle  with  chives. 

Margaret  Stout  Keeley,  Tillamook,  Ore. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

SOUTHERN  SWEETS  SANDWICH 

Yi  pound  raisins  Yi  pound  dates 

I  pound  pecan  nuts  1  loaf  sandwich  bread 

y^  pound  butter  Y^  pound  conserved  pineapple 

Cut  bread  in  thin  slices  and  spread  with  butter.  Chop  the  raisins, 
dates  and  pecans  and  mix  thoroughly.  Spread  thickly  on  the  buttered 
bread  and  garnish  with  triangular  pieces  of  conserved  pineapple. 

Margaret  Calder  Leib,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Goucher  College, 

TOMATO  CLUB  SANDWICH 

Minced  ham  Tomato 

Mayonnaise  Lettuce 

Green  pepper  Toast 

On  slice  of  toast  spread  layer  of  minced  ham  mixed  with  mayonnaise. 
Then  one  slice  of  tomato  covered  with  mayonnaise.  Cover  with 
another  slice  of  toast,  then  one  slice  of  tomato.  Top  with  spoon  of 
mayonnaise  and  ring  of  green  pepper.  Serve  on  cup  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Gladys  Becker  Murphy,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

OYSTER  SANDWICH 

Yi.  cup  white  sauce  Seasonings  (salt,  pepper) 

\i  cup  oysters  4  slices  toast 

Add  oysters  to  white  sauce  and  cook  until  their  edges  begin  to  curl. 
Spread  mixture  between  two  slices  of  toasted  bread.  Garnish  with 
parsley.    Serves  two.  Muriel  Durgin,  Berkeley,  Calif. 

University  of  California. 


COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

50 


FIG  SANDWICH  FILLING 

Chop  fine  one  cupful  of  figs.  Cook  to  a  paste  with  half  a  cup  of 
hot  water.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  set  away  to  cool. 
Spread  on  the  prepared  bread  and  dust  with  finely  chopped  nuts. 

Edna  Mumford,  Warren.  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

ORANGE  HONEY  SANDWICH  FILLING 

]^  cup  sugar  3^  cup  water 

]4:  cup  orange  juice 
Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread.    Add  one-half  cup  orange  peel  chopped, 
and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.    Bring  to  boiling  point  and  cool. 

Charlotte  Nelson  East,  Burlington,  Iowa. 
Northwestern  University. 

SANDWICH  FILLING 

Dried  beef  Pimento 

Cheese  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

Peanuts 
Grind  all  together  and  mix  with  salad  dressing.     Spread  between 
thin  slices  of  bread. 

Helen  Reidy,  Rockwell  City,  Iowa. 
Iowa   State   College. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  SANDWICH  FILLING 

Mix  chile  sauce  with  peanut  butter  until  it  is  of  a  creamy  consistency 
to  spread.    Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Lois  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Ore. 

Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

SANDWICH  FILLING 

1  cup  diced  cheese  2  teaspoons  cornstarch 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  }/2  teaspoon  salt 

^2  cup  sweet  milk 
Put  together  and  stir  in  a  double  boiler.   Add  one-half  can  of  pimentos 
(diced).  Cook  until  cheese  is  melted,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
lumping. 

Evelyn  Hart,  Blaresville,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

CHEESE-DELIGHTS  SANDWICHES 

Grate  two  cups  of  fresh,  soft  cheese.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
well  beaten  egg,  dash  of  salt,  dash  of  paprika,  two  or  three  grains 
cayenne,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  and  one  teaspoon  table  sauce. 
Mix  to  paste.  Pile  thickly  on  neat  squares  of  bread.  Top  each  with 
slice  of  bacon.  Heap  paste  up  towards  center  of  slice.  Arrange  in 
pan,  and  place  in  very  hot  oven  fc^r  5  to  10  minutes.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaf  with  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  and  pickle  or  olive. 

Marian  Foss,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

SPANISH  MUSTARD 

3  teaspoons  dry  mustard  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  dry  chili  powder        1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  teaspoon  suga'r  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

Yolk  of  one  egg 
Mix  until  smooth  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  smooth.    Bottle. 
Good  for  sandwiches. 

Muriel  Durgin,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

COL-    LEGE        WOMAN'S.   COOK         BOOK 

51 


SANDWICH  FILLING 


2  cups  pecan  nut  meats 
1.^ 


1  dozen  sweet  pickles  or 
y2  cup  mayonnaise  1  cup  sweet  relish 

Chop  nuts  and  pickles  well  and  mix  with  dressing. 

Esther  Weir,  Urbana,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 


SANDWICH  FILLING 

Yi  pound  boiled  ham  ^  pound  cream  cheese 

4  or  5  sour  pickles  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  cup  chopped  peanuts  Mayonnaise 

Grind  cheese,  ham  and  pickles  in  food  chopper.    Add  peanuts  and 
mayonnaise — pimentos  if  desired. 

Esther  Weir,  Urbana,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 

SANDWICH  FILLING 

Moisten  cream  cheese  with  a  little  orange  juice,  season  and  add  two 
teaspoons  grated  orange  rind. 

Beth  Round  Harrington,  Maquoketa,  la. 
Northwestern  University. 


SANDWICH  FILLING 


1  package  dates  (chopped) 
Enough  cream  to  give  pas- 
ty mixture 


1  cup  nuts 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Esther  Weir,  Urbana,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 


SANDWICH  FILLING 

2  cups  cold  roast  or  boiled        I  Yi  cups  sweet  relish 
pork  and  veal  (chopped) 

Mix  well  with  enough  salad  dressing  to  make  soft  paste. 

Esther  Weir,  Urbana,  III. 
University  of  Illinois. 

DATE  SPREAD 

1  pound  dates  2  tablespoons  peanut  butter 

6  tablespoons  currant  jelly 

Remove  seeds  and  put  dates  through  meat  grinder.    Add  peanut 

butter  and  jelly,  mix  well.   Spread  on  crackers  and  serve  with  salad. 

Will  serve  eight. 

Elizabeth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 
52 


COOK 


BOOK 


T>esserts 


PINfEAPPLE  TORTE 

In  the  bottom  of  an  iron  frying  pan  or  torte  pan,  spread  1 K  cups 
brown  sugar,  dotted  with  two  tablespoons  butter.  Place  slices  of 
canned  pineapple  (five  or  six)  on  top  of  sugar.  Pour  over  this  the 
batter  made  as  follows  and  bake  slowly  for  one  hour. 

Batter 
Beat  13^  cups  sugar  and  three  eggs  together  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  alternately  one-half  cup  water  and  1  yi  cupa  pastry  flour  until 
used.  Then  add  1  Yi  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Invert  cake  when  removing  from  pan.  Put 
maraschino  cherries  in  centers  of  pineapple.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.   (Serves  twelve.) 

Viola  Van  Kirk  Hardy,  Orland,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

SCHAUM  TORTE 

To  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  add  gradually  (by 
folding  in)  two  cups  sugar,  three-quarters  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
and  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  slowly  for  one  hour  and  fifteen 
minutes.  When  cool,  fill  with  whipped  cream  and  decorate  with 
fresh  strawberries.    (Serves  eight  persons.) 

Helen  A.  Binnie,  Kenosha,  Wis. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 
CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

3  egg  whites  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

I  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  egg  yolks  1  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  whites  stiff,  add  sugar,  yolks  beaten  light,  boiling  water 

and  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour.   Bake  in  oblong  pan  in  moderate 

oven.    Spread  while  hot  with  filling  and  roll. 

Filling 
1  ^  tablespoons  cornstarch        3^  cup  milk 
Y2  cup  sugar  ^  cup  water 

I  teaspoon  butter  2  squares  of  chocolate 

Vanilla 
Mix  cornstarch  and  milk,  add  sugar,  water,  butter,  and  chocolate. 
Cook  until  thickened;  add  vanilla.    Cool  and  spread  on  pudding. 
Cut  pudding  and  serve  in  individual  dishes  with  following  sauce. 

Sauce 
Y2  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

I  cup  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

Vanilla 
Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch;  add  water;  boil  five  minutes.    Remove 
from  fire  and  add  butter  and  vanilla.    Beat  well. 

Wilda  Ferris  La  Gallez,  Slingerlands,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

GRAPE  NUT  PUDDING 

1  cup  grape  nuts  I  quart  scalded  milk 

Put  grape  nuts  in  hot  milk.    Let  stand  until  cold.    Add  two  eggs. 
I  cup  raisins  (chopped)  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Y  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  ingredients  and  bake  in  slow  oven  for  one  hour. 

Mina  Lane,  Turtle  Creek,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

63 


DATE  PUDDING 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  add  one  cup  chopped  English 
walnuts,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one  cup  chopped  dates.  Put  in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes  until  nicely  browned. 
Note: — After  the  eggs  are  beaten,  the  other  materials  should  be 
added  quickly  and  folded  or  beaten  into  the  egg  whites.  Do  not  stir 
mixture. 

Custard  for  Pudding 
Heat  one  quart  of  milk  until  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Add  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Stir  this  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs;  then  return  to  the 
pan  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  (Do  not  cook  too  fast.)  Stirring 
occasionally  while  cooking  prevents  a  scum  gathering  on  the  top. 
If  thicker  than  desired,  a  little  cream  may  be  added.  Flavor  with 
maple. 

Serve  by  putting  a  spoonful  of  pudding  in  custard,  rather  than 
custard  over  the  pudding.  It  may  be  topped  with  whipped  cream 
and  garnished  if  desired.    (Will  serve  eight  to  ten  persons.) 

Anna  Jane  Walker,  Bruin,  Perm. 
Allegheny  College. 
DATE  PUDDING 
2  eggs,  beaten  separately,  and  to  yolks  add : 
1  cup  chopped  dates  1  cup  walnut  meats 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Add  beaten  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  one-half  hour  in  shallow  cake  tin 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Margaret  A.  Dutting 
Boston  University. 
GRAHAM  CRACKER  PUDDING 
Cream :   }/i  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter 
Add 
1  egg,  well  beaten  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

3^  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

^2  cup  nut  meats  1  heaping  cup  graham  cracker 

crumbs 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.     Serve  with   lemon  sauce.     (Serves   six 
persons.) 

Mary  F.  White,  Ottumwa,  Iowa. 
Northwestern  University. 
PEACH  COBBLER 

1  quart  can  of  peaches 
Make  a  batter  of : 

6  tablespoons  of  melted  but-       1  cup  flour 

ter  or  substitute  3^  cup  of  milk  (sweet) 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  Pinch  of  salt 

powder 
Drop  over  fruit  and  bake.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  whipped  cream. 
(Serves  eight  or  ten  persons.) 

Virginia  Kerr,  Oakmont,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 
POOR  MAN'S  RICE  PUDDING 
6  cups  milk  3^  cup  uncooked  rice 

54  cup  sugar  Nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  raisins  or  cut  dates 
Bake  in  a -slow  oven  for  two  hours.    Be  sure  to  stir  from  bottom 
occasionally.   Serve  with  cream.    (Serves  ten  persons.) 

Vesta  Blodgett  Simpson,  Winnetka,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

54 


PINEAPPLE  DESSERT 

1  medium  sized  can  grated         ^  cup  water 

pineapple  1  Yi  cups  sugar 

3^  cup  nut  meats  Whipped  cream 

4  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  cake 

Heat  the  pineapple,  to  which  has  been  added  the  sugar  and  water. 
Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  of  the  water ;  add  to  the  mixture 
and  cook  till  all  thickens  and  looks  clear.  Allow  to  cool.  Spread 
about  an  inch  thick  on  a  white  or  yellow  cake  which  has  been  baked 
in  two  layers.  Top  this  with  stiffly  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle 
with  ground  nuts.    Cut  in  squares  and  serve. 

Leila  Foresman  Hanson,  Brook,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

FUDGE  PUDDING 

2  ounces  chocolate  yi  teaspoon  salt 
1  yi  pints  milk                             2  cups  sugar 

1  pint  bread  crumbs  yi  cup  dates  or  nuts 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  butter 

Heat  milk,  butter,  chocolate  and  salt  and  px)ur  over  the  crumbs. 
Cool  slightly  and  add  beaten  eggs.    Then  add  sugar,  or  it  may  be 
put  in  with  milk  when  heated.    Add  fruit.    Bake  in  buttered  dish 
for  fifty  or  sixty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  sauce : 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

Vanilla 
Boil  for  few  minutes  and  let  cool. 

Edith  Speckman  Kern,  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

STEAMED  DATE  PUDDING 

3  tablespoons  butter  >^  cup  molasses 
yi  cup  milk  1 J^  cups  flour 
%  teaspoon  soda                         %  teaspoon  salt 

yi  teaspoon  cloves  yi  teaspoon  allspice 

%  teaspoon  nutmeg  ^  pound  dates  cut  in  small 

pieces 
Melt  butter,  add  molasses  and  milk.  Then  add  all  the  dry  ingredients 
which  have  been  sifted  together,  and  the  dates.   Steam  for  two  and 
one-half  hours. 

Golden  Sauce 
Put  in  a  double  boiler 

1  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  butter  Y,  cup  milk 
When  dissolved,  beat  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.    Add  one  teaspoon 
of  vanilla  and  beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  to  keep  from  lumping. 
Serve  hot  with  the  Date  Pudding. 

Esther  Hunter  Ong,  Champaign,  III. 
University  of  Illinois. 

APRICOT  SOUFFLE 

6  whole  apricots,  cooked  Y  cup  sugar 

and  strained  through  Y  cup  milk 

sieve  Y  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  butter  4  eggs 

Put  butter  in  saucepan  on  stove,  add  milk  and  stir  till  it  boils. 
Add  fruit,  boil  eight  minutes.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  beaten  egg 
yolks  slowly.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  buttered  pan 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  firm.   Serve  at  once. 

Ella  Record,  Cambridge,  III. 
University  of  Illinois. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

55 


kSib 


CHOCOLATE  SOUFFLE 

y^  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Yi  tablespoon  flour  y^  tablespoon  hot  water 

K  cup  milk  1  egg 

y2  square  bitter  chocolate  Vanilla 

Melt  butter,  add  flour;  while  stirring  add  milk  slowly.  Cook  until 
boiling  point  is  reached.  Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  sugar 
and  water,  stir  until  smooth.  Combine  the  mixture  and  add  well 
beaten  yolk.  Cool.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  add  vanilla. 
Bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  moderate  o\zx\.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Evelyn  Woodward,  Berkeley,  Calif. 

University  of  California. 

LEMON  SOUFFLE 

Yolks  4  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  and  juice  I  Whites  of  4  eggs 

lemon 
Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  sugar  gradually  and 
continue  beating;  add  lemon  rind  and  juice.    Fold  in  egg  whites. 
Turn  into  buttered  dish,  place  in  pan  of  warm  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  firm.   Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

Juice  of  yi  lemon 
Beat  and  pour  into  six  tablespoons  hot  milk.    Let  come  to  boiling 
point.  Margaret  Roberts  Jones,  Coldwater,  Minn. 

University  of  Wisconsin. 

SAILOR'S  DUFF 

yi  cup  molasses  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
1  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little        1  Yi  cups  flour 

hot  water 
Beat  well  and  .add  one-half  cup  boiling  water  and  steam  one  hour. 

Sauce 
1  cup  brown  sugar  yi  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  in  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste. 
Pour  over  this  two  cups  boiling  water.  Cook  till  it  thickens  and 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 
University  of  Michigan. 

CARAMELIZED  APPLES 

Dissolve  1  tablespoon  gela-       }/i  cup  cream  or  milk 

tine  in  3^  cup  cold  water    ^  cup  chopped  walnuts 
Select  6  Wine-Sap  or  Jona-       1  cup  water 

than  apples  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  sugar 

Peel  and  core  apples,  leaving  them  whole.  Cook  till  tender  in  the 
syrup  made  by  boiling  the  white  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes. 
Cook  brown  sugar  and  milk  and  butter  till  it  will  form  a  soft  ball 
when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  nuts.  Place 
apples  in  dishes  ready  to  serve.  Fill  centers  with  nut  mixture.  Add 
gelatine  to  water  in  which  apples  were  cooked,  and  pour  it  around 
apples. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.     Serves  six. 

Vera  Flack,  Macomb,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

56 


K 


*■*  "■*  "■" 


REFRIGERATOR  CAKE 

3^  pound  unsalted  butter  1  cup  confectioner's  sugar 

Juice  of  1  lemon  Juice  of  1  orange 

2  dozen  lady  fingers  2  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  fluffy;  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  then 
lemon  and  orange  juice,  beating  constantly  until  very  light.  Line 
sides  and  bottom  of  mold  with  split  lady  fingers  and  pour  in  one-half 
of  the  mixture;  cover  with  layer  of  lady  fingers;  pour  in  rest  of 
mixture  and  again  cover  with  layer  of  lady  fingers.  Let  stand  in 
refrigerator  twenty-four  hours.  Before  serving  cover  with  whipped 
cream.   This  recipe  will  serve  twelve. 

Thorborg  Swenson,  Rockford,  III. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

FIG  AND  MARSHMALLOW  DESSERT 

1  lb.  cooking  figs  Marshmallows 

Whipping  cream 
Stew  figs  until  tender  without  sugar.  When  soft,  drain  off  liquid; 
add  one  cup  sugar  to  three  cups  liquid  and  simmer  down  to  a  rich 
syrup.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  figs  in  halves,  insert  one-half  of  a 
marshmallow  in  each  portion  of  fig;  place  eight  or  ten  of  the  stuffed 
figs  in  a  sherbet  glass,  cover  with  syrup  and  then  whipped  cream. 

Marguerite  C.  Lund,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  teaspoon  sugar  16  marshmallows 

2  egg  whites  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  cornstarch  (rubbed  smooth  in  little  cold  milk)  to  scalded 
milk;  cook  about  fifteen  minutes  in  double  boiler;  remove  from  fire 
and  add  sugar  and  beat  in  marshmallows.  Add  vanilla  and  fold  in 
egg  whites.   Cool. 

Margaret  Taylor,  Kewanee,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

DATE  PUDDING 

4  cups  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  graham  flour  1  pound  dates 

1  cup  nuts 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  five  minutes;  add  graham 
flour  slowly,  stirring  constantly ;  add  dates,  ground  or  chopped,  and 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes.    Remove  from  fire  and  add  nuts.    Serve 
cold  with  whipp>ed  cream  or  ice  cream.   Serves  fourteen. 

Faye  Thornton  Havens,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

PRINCESS  PUDDING 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  3^  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  Yi  lemon  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

^   tablespoons  granulated       Whites  of  3  eggs 

gelatine  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  of  boiling  water, 
^^^tegg  yolks  until  thick  and  add  sugar  gradually;  then  add  rind 
of  lemon,  lemon  juice  and  dissolved  gelatine.    As  soon  as  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.    Serve  with 
whipped  cream.    This  recipe  will  serve  six  people. 

Thorborg  Swenson,  Rockford,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK        BOOK 

57 


STEAMED  PUDDING 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

2  teaspoons  melted  butter  a  little  hot  water 

1  egg  IH    cups   flour,    measured 

14.  cup  dark  molasses  after  sifting 

Mix  together  and  add  very  slowly  3^  cup  boiling  water. 
Steam  %  of  an  hour. 

This  pudding  k  good  after  being  steamed  a  second  time. 

Sauce 
1  cup  powdered  sugar  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  cup  cream 
Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together.     Whip  cream  and  add  a  little  at  a 
rime  to  mixture.     Flavor.     Serves  ten  people. 

Helen  E.  Heggie,  Evanston,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

PARSONS  PUDDING 

Combine  in  the  following  order: 

}/2  cup  melted  butter  1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

1  cup  molasses  ^  cup  cold  water 

3  cups  flour 
Steam  in  funnel  pudding  mold  for  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce 
Cream  thoroughly 

%  cup  butter  1  }/^  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  boiling  water 
Add  yolks  of  three  eggs.     Then  add  slowly,  creaming  all  the  time, 
the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Helen  Gelhar,  Glencoe,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

1    cup  bread   crumbs   and       Yolks  of  2  eggs  and  whites 
juice  and   rind  of   3^  of  4 

orange  ^i  cup  sugar 

Cover  the  bread  crumbs  with  milk.     Add  orange  juice  and  rind,  and 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Beat  whites  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  beat  and  add  to  the  mixture.     Bake 
in  buttered  molds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. 

Sauce 
yi  cup  butter  Grated  rind  of  3^  orange 

1  cup  sugar  (and  a  little  of  the  juice) 
Yolks  of  the  2  remaining  eggs  3^  cup  scalded  milk 

Marion  Brown  Comeliussen, 
University  of  Illinois. 

MAPLE  RICE  PUDDING 

yi  cup  rice  1 3^  tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  cups  milk  '      ^  cup  maple  syrup 

2  eggs 
Boil  rice  till  tender.  Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Stir  the  corn- 
starch smooth  in  one-half  cup  of  the  maple  syrup  and  stir  into  the 
hot  milk.  When  mixture  thickens,  cover  and  let  cook  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  the  rice,  which  has  been  cooked  till  grains  are  dry 
and  distinct  and  beat  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  h>eaten  light.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  till  dry  and  gradually  add  remainder  of  maple  syrup 
and  spread  over  pudding.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes. 

Mabel  Mason  Carleton,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

58 


MOCHA  PUDDING 

1  }/2  cups  scalded  milk  1  ^  cups  coffee 

14.  cup  sugar 
Cook  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler  and  add:  / 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  Yolks  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

2  squares  melted  chocolate        3^  cup  sugar 

Let  cool  a  few  minutes  and  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cool  in  individual  molds  and  serve 
with  w'l  lipped  cream.    Serves  eight  persons. 

Emily  Gleason  Perkins,  Oklahoma  City,  Okla. 

Boston  University. 

STEAMED  CARROT  PUDDING 

1  cup  grated  raw  carrot  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  grated  raw  potato  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  }4  teaspoon  cloves 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  1  teaspoon  soda  mixed 

I  cup  flour  ,  with  potato 

1  cup  raisins 
Mix  well  and  steam  three  hours.   Serve  with  sauce. 

Marjorie  L.  Miller,  Kewanee,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CHOCOLATE  RICE  PUDDING 

Boil  rice  until  very  soft.  When  nearly  soft  add  chopped  nuts,  cocoa 
and  sugar  (as  much  as  is  desired).  Boil  all  together.  Beat  an  egg 
and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  canned  milk.  Stir  into  boiling  rice 
mixture.  Mix  thoroughly  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  bubble, 
remove  from  stove,  so  as  not  to  boil  the  milk.  Add  vanilla  flavor- 
ing. 

*  Marion  Brown  Corneliussen, 

University  of  Illinois. 

DATE  PUDDING 

}/2  cup  of  p^rl  tapioca  Whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten 

1  cup  of  dates,  chopped  Little  sugar 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
Soak  the  tapioca  for  two  hours  in  enough  water  to  cover  and  cook 
until  clear  in  two  cups  of  water  seasoned  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
one-quarter  cup  of  sugar.  Fold  this  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 
and  let  the  mixture  cool.  Sugar  the  dates  lightly  and  mix  with  the 
tapioca.  Then  fold  in  one-half  cup  of  whipped  cream.  Garnish 
with  whole  fruit. 

Lucile  Peck,  Menomonie  Falls,  Wis. 
Northwestern  University. 

FLOAT 

1  quart  milk  2  heaping  tablespoons  corn- 

1^2  cup  sugar  starch 

3  eggs  ■     ]4.  teaspoon  salt   (may  be 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  omitted) 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  saving  a  little  to  mix  cornstarch  with 
eggs.  Mix  slightly  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  cornstarch  together  and  add 
to  hot  milk.  Cook  until  mixture  thickens  on  spoon.  Remove  from 
fire,  cool  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  flavoring.  Let 
stand  before  serving  cold. 

Marian  Van  Ness,  Chicago,  III. 
University  of  Michigan. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

59 


fJUiLi 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 
I>issolve  one-third  box  Cox  gelatine  in  one  cup  milk.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  with  one-half  pint  of  sugar  until  creamy  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Combine  the  egg  yolk  and  sugar  mixture  with  the 
dissolved  gelatine  and  fold  into  one  quart  of  cream  whipped  to  a 
froth.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Line  a  deep  dish  with 
sponge  cake  or  lady  fingers  and  pour  over  the  mixture. 

Charlotte  Reed,  Martinez,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 
QUICK  DESSERT 
2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  water 

2  teaspoons  cornstarch  .  Nuts  or  cocoanut 

Whipped  cream 
Boil  first  three  ingredients  together  five  minutes.  Set  aside  and  cool. 
Add  nuts  or  cocoanut.   Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Beth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
JELLIED  APPLES 
Pare  and  core  ten  or  twelve  small  apples,  put  on  deep  pan  with 
two  and  one-half  cups  water,  and  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  pinch 
salt,  cook  on  top  of  stove  until  tender.  Place  each  apple  in  separate 
mold  and  cover  with  the  following  jelly  mixture: — one-half  box  or 
two  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water, 
juice  of  two  lemons,  add  syrup  in  which  apples  were  cooked,  enough 
to  make  a  scant  quart  in  all.  Color  pink  if  desired.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Doris  Munsey,  Swampscott,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 
PEACH  MELLOWS 
Take  peach  halves,  fill  the  cavity  with  marshmallow,  and  pour 
over  them  the  following: 

1  cup  F>each  juice  }4  cup  sugar 

1  yolk  of  an  egg  1  teaspKX>n  cornstarch  dis- 

solved in  water 
Let  juice  and  sugar  come  to  a  boil.    Add  the  egg  yolk  and  corn- 
starch to  the  boiling  juice  and  let  come  to  a  boil  but  do  not  boil 
hard.  Pour  over  peach  halves  while  still  hot.  Sufficient  for  6  peaches. 

Ruth  Cordes,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

CHERRY  COBBLER 
Fruit  Mixture 

2  cups  cherries  (pitted)  2  teaspoons  flour 
^  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  water 

}/$  teaspoon  salt 
Dough 
1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder         2  tablespoons  shortening 
}4  teaspoon  salt  6  tablespoons  milk 

Mix  the  cherries,  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Allow  to  stand  five  minutes. 
Add  the  water.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep  baking  dish.  Mix  the 
flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Cut  in  the  shortening  with  a 
knife.  Add  the  milk,  mixing  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed.  Shape  it 
with  the  hands  to  fit  over  the  cherries  and  make  three  slits  in  the 
dough  to  permit  the  steam  to  escap>e.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  bake  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Six  por- 
tions. 

Ruth  Foley,  Paris,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

60 


WAR  PUDDING 

1 J/^  cups  brown  sugar  6  (or  more)  walnuts 

2  cups  water  Dates  or  figs 

2  heaping  tablespoons  com-  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
starch 
Bring  to  boil  sugar  and  water.  Add  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  mixture  has  thickened.  Re- 
move from  fire.  Add  broken  walnut  meats  and  dates  or  figs  which 
have  been  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  vanilla.  Let  cool.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  if  desired. 

M.  L.  Patterson,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 
Wesleyan  University. 

APPLE  CRISP 

Cover  an  uncooked  pie  crust  with  halves  of  apples,  turned  with 

rounded  side  up. 

Sprinkle  tops  of  apples  with  following  mixture: 

3^  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

3^  cup  sugar 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  done.     Serve  with  whipped 
cream.     Serves  six, 

Helen  Gelhar,  Glencoe,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

BELGIAN  BANANAS 

6  or  8  bananas  3^  lemon 

1  orange  Y^  cup  sugar 

Peel,  scrape  and  lay  bananas  in  baking  dish.  Grate  over  them  the 
rind  of  the  orange  and  half  lemon;  mix  together  the  juice  of  the 
half  lemon,  the  orange  and  sugar.  Pour  over  bananas.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  soft. 

Marie  Bellinghausen,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

ORANGE  TRIFLE 

Soak  together  one  package  {Yi  box)  Knox  Gelatine  with  one-half 
cup  cold  water.  After  five  minutes  combine  with  one-half  cup 
boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  orange  juice  and  let  set. 
Whip  three  half-pint  bottles  of  cream  and  add  to  above  when  it 
starts  to  harden.  Beat  all  thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater.  Top  each 
individual  serving  with  one  teaspoonful  whipped  cream.  Serves 
twelve. 

Vesta  Blodgett  Simpson,  Winnetka,  Hi. 
Northwestern  University. 

PINEAPPLE  CHARLOTTE 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  Y  cup  cold  water 

1  can  of  grated  pineapple  I  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup  of  pineapple  juice  Yi  cup  sugar 

Whip  2  cups  of  cream  6  or  8  lady  fingers 

Cherries  for  garnishing 
Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.    Heat  pineapple  juice  and  sugar,  then 
add  to  gelatine;  add  lemon  juice  and  grated  pineapple.    Cool,  and 
when  it  starts  to  thicken,  fold  in  whipped  cream.   Pour  in  moistened 
mold,  lined  with  lady  fingers. 

Doris  Madill,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

61 


mTiT  ff 


CARAMEL  CREAM  DESSERT 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  gelatine 

3^  pint  cream 
Caramelize  sugar,  adding  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  one  pint 
of  liquid.  Soak  gelatine  in  half  cup  of  cold  water  and  add  to  hot 
caramel  liquid,  mixing  thoroughly.  Allow  mixture  to  cool  and 
begin  to  set.  When  but  slightly  set,  add  the  cream  which  has  been 
well  whipped.  Pour  into  sherbet  glasses  and  serve  very  cold.  Will 
serve  six  or  eight,  depending  on  size  of  glasses. 

Louise  Leonard,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING 

(Frozen) 

3  cups  cream  2  cups  sugar 

5  egg  yolks  Pinch  of  salt 

2  cups  milk  M  cup  pineapple  syrup 

1  pint  nuts  1  cup  candied  pineapple 

Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  sugar,  eggs  and  salt.  Strain,  then  cool. 
Add  the  pineapple  syrup,  cream.  Then  freeze.  When  partly  frozen, 
add  the  nuts  and  fruits  cut  up.   Serves  twelve. 

Lillian  Hanson  Halgren  Menominee,  Wis. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

PEACH  SHERBET 

1  quart  water  10  peach  kernels 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  2  oranges 
1  teaspoon  gelatine                     Juice  I  lemon 

1  pint  peach  pulp 
Boil  water,  peach  kernels,  and  sugar  ten  minutes.  Add  gelatine 
softened  in  two  tablespoons  cold  water  and  strain.  When  cool 
add  the  peach  pulp  (fresh  peaches  pared,  stoned,  and  pulp  passed 
through  a  ricer  or  sieve),  the  lemon  and  orange  juice.  Remove 
peach  kernels  and  freeze. 

Marjorie  Sibley,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

GRAPE  SHERBET 

I  quart  water  1  pint  grape  juice  . 

I  pint  sugar  Juice  2  lemons 

1  teaspoon  gelatine 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  add  grape  and  lemon  juice. 
Hydrate  gelatine  iit  small  amount  of  cold  water,  add  to  hot  liquid, 
and  when  dissolved,  freeze  as  usual. 

Olga  H.  Six,  Broadlands,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

FRUIT  CUP 

1  cup  white  grapes  yi  cup  orange  juice 

I  cup  orange  sections  y^  cup  pineapple  syrup 

1  cup  pineapple  diced  Sugar 

Few  grains  salt 
Remove  skins  and  seeds  from  white  grapes,  and  membrane  from 
orange  sections.  Mix  fruit,  orange  juice  and  pineapple  syrup  or 
fresh  pineapple  juice,  salt  and  sugar  to  sweeten.  Put  in  freezer, 
pack  in  ice  and  salt,  and  stir  occasionally  until  juice  begins  to 
freeze.  Serve  in  champagne  glasses  garnished  with  maraschino 
cherries.    Makes  eight  small  or  six  large  servings. 

Lois  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Oregon. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

62 


LONDON  SHERBET 

Juice  of  6  oranges  1  small  can  grated  pineapple 

Juice  of  3  lemons  4  cups  sugar 

Mix  all  together;  let  stand  a  few  minutes;  put  into  a  gallon  freezer. 
Add  enough  whole  milk  to  fill  freezer  three-fourths  full  and  freeze. 

Harriet  E.  Smith,  Avoca,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 

FRUIT  SHERBET 

3  oranges  3  bananas 

3  lemons  3  cups  granulated  sugar 

3  cups  water  3  egg  whites 

Prepare  juice  from  the  oranges  and  lemons,  mash  the  bananas,  put 
all  through  a  strainer;  add  water  and  sugar;  stir  until  dissolved. 
Put  into  a  freezer  and  freeze  to  the  consistency  of  mush,  then  open 
the  top  and  quickly  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whifes.  Repack 
and  finish  freezing.   Makes  two  quarts. 

Ruth  Hickox,  Barberton,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 
FROZEN  APRICOTS 

1  quart  canned  apricots  1  quart  water 

2  cups  sugar  Juice  from  apricots. 

Remove  skins  from  apricots  and  cut  pulp  in  quarters  or  eighths; 
add  the  juice,  water,  and  sugar  which  has  been  made  into  a  syrup. 
Cool  and  add  apricots.  Freeze.  Allow  mixture  to  stand  an  hour 
before  serving. 

Lenore  Stafford,  Geneseo,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
APRICOT  FRAPPE 

1  can  apricots  1  quart  water 

1  pint  sugar  yi  pint  whipped  cream 

Mash  the  apricots  and  press  them  through  a  sieve,  then  add  sugar 
and  water.  Put  in  freezer  and  turn  until  nearly  frozen.  Fold  in 
cream,  freeze  and  pack. 

Irma  Strassen  Brady^  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

ANGEL  PARFAIT 

1  cup  sugar  %  cup  water 

3  egg  whites  I  pint  whipping  cream 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 
Cook  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water.    Pour  over  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  beat  until  cool. 
Add  whipped  cream  and  flavoring.    Put  in  a  mold  with  a  tight  lid 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  several  hours. 

Bernice  Grantham,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

/  GRAPE  JUICE  MOUSSE 

1  pint  cream  (whipping)  I  cup  grape  juice 

y2  cup  powdered  sugar 
Whip  cream,  add  sugar  and  grape  juice,  turn  mixture  into  a  mold, 
pack  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  for  four  hours. 
Note:  Strawberry  mousse  may  be  made  by  substituting 
2  cups  mashed  strawberries  for  grape  juice 
Chocolate  mousse  may  be  made  by  substituting 

4  squares  Baker's  chocolate  (melted)  for  grape  juice 

Lucile  Robertson,  Evanston,  III. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

63 


^-^^M     .^^..        .^.^...^  >^    »    ^     .^    .    >. 


NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM 

1  pint  milk  and  4-6  egg  yolks 

1  pint  cream,  or  1  ^  cups  sugar 

1  quart  rich,  creamy  milk  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  light  colored  and  creamy.  Add  sug  ir  and 
milk,  or  milk  and  cream  which  has  been  scalded.  Return  ;o  the 
double  boiler  and  cook  as  boiled  custard.  Strain  the  mixture  into  a 
dish  set  in  cold  water  (to  cool  quickly),  flavor  and  freeze. 
The  Neapolitan  method  is  considered  best  for  making  vanilla, 
coffee,  chocolate,  and  caramel  creams. 

Ruth  Trice,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 
Northwestern  University. 
PEPPERMINT  ICE  CREAM 
1  pint  milk  3^   pound   striped   pepper- 

1  pint  cream  mint  candy 

Crush  candy  and  dissolve  in  milk.  When  this  mixture  is  half 
frozen,  add  the  one  pint  of  cream  beaten  stiff  and  finish  freezing. 

Erminie  Lamb,  Tacoma,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 

2  squares  chocolate  3^  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  water  I  quart  cream 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate;  add  hot  water  and  heat  five  minutes;  add  sugar, 
salt  and  cool.    Add  cream  and  vanilla  and  freeze. 

Doris  Bigelow,  Chicago,  Ilh 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE  CREAM 

1  can  grated  pineapple  2  cups  water 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  whipping  cream 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes;  cool;  add 
pineapple  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Fold  in  whipped  cream;  let  stand 
thirty  minutes  before  serving.  Serve  in  frappe  glasses  and  garnish 
with  candied  pineapple. 

Elsie  Goodman,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  SAUCE 

1  cup  sugar  (white  or  2  tablespoons  flour 

brown)  2  or  3  tablespoons  cold  water 

1  cup  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  sugar  till  caramelized.  Add  one  cup  water  carefully.  When 
caramel  is  melted  and  again  boiling,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  flour 
smoothed  with  two  or  three  tablespoons  cold  water.  Continue  to 
stir  till  boiling,  then  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  When  cool  add  two 
tablespoons  of  butter. 

Pearl  Rainey,  Mt.  Vernon,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CHOCOLATE  SYRUP  FOR  VANILLA  ICE  CREAM 

1  ounce  chocolate  2  inches  of  stick  cinnamon 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  ^  cups  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water;  add  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  the 
boiling  water  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  When  smooth  and 
glossy,  add  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  stir  until  boiling  begins; 
let  boil  five  minutes,  strain,  cool,  and  add  the  vanilla. 

Ruth  Vielehr,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

64 


"^ies  &  Fillings 

PLAIN  PASTRY 

1  cup  flour  ^2  teaspoon  salt 

}/i  cup  lard  Ice  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt.  Cut  in  shortening  with  two  knives.  Add  just 
enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  on  floured  board. 
(Be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  flour.) 

Louise  Nottingham,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

OPEN  APPLE  PIE 

1  pie  crust  ^  teasjX)on  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 
4  tablespoons  sugar                     ^  cup  sugar 

3-4  apples  1  tablespoon  flour 

M  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  butter  Yi  cup  water 

Sprinkle  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  four  tablespoons  of  sugar 
over  bottom  crust.  Fill  with  sliced  apples.  Sprinkle  Yi  cup  sugar 
over  these  and  dot  butter  over  sugar.  Add  nutmeg  and  salt.  Fill 
with  a  custard  made  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  egg  and  water. 
Bake  till  custard.  Ethel  Reed,  Brook,  Ind. 

De  Pauw  University. 

CARAMEL  NUT  PIE 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  shallow  vessel;  let  melt;  pour 
into  it  Yi  cup  sugar.  Cook  until  dark  brown.  Pour  into  the  caramel 
13^  cups  creamy  milk.  Let  boil  until  caramel  is  dissolved  in  milk. 
Empty  into  double  boiler. 

Beat  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Dissolve  XY  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  in 
a  little  cold  milk.  Add  this  and  \i  cup  of  sugar  to  egg  yolks.  Beat 
all  together;  then  pour  into  caramel  mixture.  Cook  until  thick. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  When  cool  add 
Yi  cup  English  walnut  meats  and  pour  into  baked  pie  crust. 
Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  two  tablespoons  sugar.  Spread 
over  top  of  pie  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  light  brown. 

Thorborg  Swenson,  Rockford,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

MOCK  MINCE  MEAT 

1  peck  tomatoes — wash  and       6  pounds  brown  sugar 

grind  in  food  chopper  1  pint  vinegar 

2  pounds  raisins — whole 

Cook  IY2  hours,  then  add  one  pound  dates,  a  little  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice,  nutmeg,  salt. 

Add  chopped  apple  either  now  or  when  using  mince  meat. 

Rhoda  Weingartner, 

University  of  Wisconsin. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Y2.  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Y%  teasp>oon  salt  1 Y2  cups  hot  milk 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour  onto  two  egg  yolks;  return 
to  boiler  and  cook  until  eggs  thicken.  Cool  and  add  one  cup  crushed 
pineapple.  Pour  in  baked  crust.  Cover  with  meringue  and  brown 
in  hot  oven.  Evelyn  Leander,  Corvallis,  Ore. 

Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

65 


^TiT  Ti 


ORANGE  PIE  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  5^  cup  flour 

}4  teaspoon  salt  Grated  rind  1  orange 

Juice  K  lemon  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  egg  yolks 
Mix  sugar  and  flour,  salt  and  grated  rind;  add  fruit  juice,  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  ten  minutes,  stirring  until  thickened,  and  after- 
ward occasionally.  Add  butter  and  egg  yolks  beaten  light.  Cook 
two  minutes  and  cool.  Put  in  crust  that  has  been  baked  and  cover 
with  meringue.    Place  in  hot  oven  long  enough  to  brown  meringue. 

Helen  Heggie,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 
CAKE  TOP  LEMON  PIE 
Line  a  pie  tin  with  rich  pie  dough  and  add  the  following  filling: 
1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter  creamed 

Add  2  tablespoons  flour  and  well  with  the  sugar 

juice  of  13^  lemons  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  cup  milk  Pinch  of  salt 

Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 
Rachael  Reed  Deming,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

University  of  Washington. 
LEMON  CREAM  PIE 
14  cup  flour  3  egg  yolks 

1  ^  cups  sugar  3  egg  whites 

Butter  size  hickory  nut  Juice  1 3^  lemons 

1  cup  hot  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  fk>ur  with  cold  water  to  form  a  thin  paste.  Add  to  it  sugar, 
butter  and  hot  water.  Cook  until  thick,  then  add  yolks  of  three 
€ggs,  well  beaten,  and  cook  again  until  mixture  boils.  Add  juice  of 
lemons  and  pour  in  baked  pie  crust. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  thoroughly,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar,  put  on 
top  of  pie  and  place  in  hot  oven  until  frosting  is  nicely  browned. 

Lillian  Wilson  Vogt,  Chicago,  111. 
^  University  of  Illinois. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 
1  cup  hot  milk  K  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  cold  milk  4  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

.  ^    2  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  milk,  cornstarch,  sugar,  salt  and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Cook 
until  thick.  Add  butter  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  baked  pastry 
shell.  Spread  with  a  meringue  made  of  two  egg  whites  and  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar.    Brown  in  oven. 

Doris  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

CRANBERRY  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  flour  » 
yi  cup  cold  water                        1  tablespoon  butter 

2  cups  cranberries  %     3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  eggs 
Boil  sugar  and  water.    When  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  cranberries. 
Cook  until  they  all  pop.    Cool. 

Mix  in  a  bowl,  yolks  of  eggs  and  one  tablespoon  flour  and  three 
tablespoons  of  cooked  berries.  Add  to  cooled  berries  and  simmer  for 
few  minutes  until  it  thickens.  Cover  with  meringue.  Add  butter 
and  vanilla.    Put  in  baked  crust. 

Edith  Speckman  Kem,  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

66 


CHESS  PIES  (INDIVIDUAL) 

Make  a  good  pie  crust  and  put  in  gem  pans;  drop  abgut  one  table- 
spoon of  the  following  in  each: 

1  cup  sugar  (brown)  Juice  of"  1  lemon 

Yi  cup  butter  creamed  1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

Bake  in  moderate  oven.  When  done  whip  whites  of  two  eggs,  add 
sugar  and  spread  on  each  and  brown. 

Frances  Owen,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 
Coe  College. 
FRENCH  PEACH  PIE 
Line  a  pie  tin  with  a  crust. 

Filling  for  large  pie 
1  cup  sugar  %  cup  flour 

4  tablespoons  butter  Mix  well 

Peaches  peeled  and  halved.  Put  half  the  filling  on  the  unbaked 
crust,  then  lay  the  peaches  in.  Sprinkle  the  other  half  of  filling 
over  the  top.  (No  top  crust.)  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  half 
an  hour. 

Irnia  Strassen  Brady,  Chicago,  111. 
%.,  University  of  Wisconsin. 

.  CHARLOTTE  PIE 

Butter  a  pie  plate  well  and  line  with  bread  crumbs.  Fill  to  over- 
flowing with  sliced  appl«.  Sugar  as  desired  and  cinnamon.  Cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  pm/down  all  over.  Dot  with  butter  and 
sprinkle  over  3^  cup  water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  to  forty 
minutes  or  until  apples  are  soft.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  after 
inverting  whole  pie  on  platter.  • 

Edith  Speckman  Kern,  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE 

1  cup  cranberries,  chopped        1  cup  sugar 

not  very  fine  Y2  cup  seedless  raisiris 

.  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour  *       2  teaspoons  vanilla  ^ 
Yi  cup  boiling  water  poured  over  the  whole 
Stir  the  above  well  before  filling  the  pie.   Bake  between  two  crusts. 

Mftdred  Decker  Rolfe,  Maiden,  Mass. 
•  Boston  University. 

•  NEVER  FAIL  MERINGUE 

(For  Pie  or  Pudding) 
Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff  and  dry.    For  each  white  add  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar — add  gradually  and  beat  thorougWy.    Spread 
on  pie  or  pudding  and  then  place  in  a  slow  oven  for  fifteen  minutes 
or  until  a  delicate  brown. 

Vera  Bagot  MacGee,  Piedmont,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 
RHUBARB  PIE 
Pour  boiling  water  on  two  cups  chopped  rhubarb.    Drain  after 
four  or  five  minutes.   Mix  and  add: 

1  cup  sugar  Yolk  1  egg 

1  piece  of   butter   (size  of       1  tablespoon  flour 
walnut)  3  tablespoons  water 

Bake  with  lower  crust  only  and  make  meringue  of  the  egg  white  by 
beating  it  until  stiff  and  adding  three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  When 
the  pie  filling  is  baked  spread  the  meringue  on  top  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

Lucile  Ridgway,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  Universitv. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 
^  67  _ 


■"  r 


f 


QaJ^s^  Fillings^  Frostings 

BLACK  WALNUT  CAKE 

}/2  cup  butter  (scant)  1  Yi  cups  sugar 

1  cup  water  (cold)  or  milk         3  cups  Swan's  Down  flour 

sifted  3  times 
4  egg  whites  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teasfxxDn  vanilla  Y^  cup  black  walnut  meats 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  ^  the  water  and  one  cup  flour; 
beat  thoroughly  and  add  second  cup  flour;  into  the  last  cup  of 
flour  add  the  baking  powder  and  then  remainder  of  water  and  beat 
well.  Add  the  nuts  and  flavoring  and  lastly  very  carefully  fold  in 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  three  round  tins  in  moderate  oven. 
Put  together  with  fig  and  black  walnut  filling  and  top  with  boiled 
frosting.  Lois  Denman  Stubblefield,  Bloomington,  111. 

Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

MARBLE  CAKE 
Light    ^ 
^  cup  sugar  /^i^"N?  butter 

Y  cup  milk  1  cup  flour  - 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  of  2  eggs 
Dark 
}/2  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

Y^  cup  molasses  '  Y%  teaspoon  soda 

y%  cup  milk  2  egg  yolks 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  cloves  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 
Cream  sugar  with  butter,  add  milk,  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with 
baking  powder  and  flavorings.  In  making  the  light  part,  fold  in  the 
beaten  egg  whites.  Drop  in  alternating  spoonfuls  of  light  and  dark 
batter  in  round  or  square  buttered  pan.  Bake  thirty-five  minutes 
in  moderate  oven. 

Edith  V.  Grupe,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 
University  of  Buffalo. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 

Flavoring  Syrup: 

I  cup  sugar  burned  until  it  smokes  blue;  then  add 
1  cup  boiling  water 
Boil  until  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved  and  the  syrup  is  clear. 

Cake: 

Y  cup  butter  2  egg  yolks 
1 Y  cups  sugar  1  cup  water 

lYi  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  all  together  for  five  minutes  and  then  add : 

3  tablespoons  flavoring  syrup    1  teaspoon  vanilla 
3  egg  whites  beaten  stiff 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.    This  makes  two  layers. 

Frosting : 
1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  water 

Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread  and  add : 

3  tablespoons  flavoring  syrup  and  boil  again 
Pour  over  two  egg  whites  stiffly  beaten. 

Frances  Domack  Richey, 
Birmingham,  Mich. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

68 


QUICK  LAYER  CAKE 

Sift  together  the  following: 

1 Y2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

yi  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sugar 

In  measuring  cup  melt  }/i  cup  butter.  Add  one  egg,  one  teaspoon 
flavoring,  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Stir  liquids  into  dry  ingredients 
and  beat  until  well  mixed  and  light.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Emily  H.  Butterfield,  Farmingtc«i,  Mich. 
Syracuse  University. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE 

^  cup  butter  %  cup  sugar  creamed 

2  egg  yolks  H  cup  pineapple  juice 

2  cups  flour  .  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  two  egg  whites  very  stiff  and  fold  in  last. 

Pineapple  Cream  Filling 

%  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  egg  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  grated  pineapple  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Y^  teaspoon  salt 
Scald  milk  and  pour  over  cornstarch  and  sugar.     Cook  ten  minutes, 
then  add  pineapple,  egg  and  salt.    Cook  until  it  thickens. 
For  the  icing,  use  four  times  as  much  sugar  as  pineapple  juice, 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

Evelyn  Austin,  Wayne,  Mich. 
University  of  Michigan. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

y^  cup  shortening  Y2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  sugar  1   cup  hot,  thick,  strained 

1  egg,  beaten  apple  sauce  (sweetened) 

1  ^  cups  flour  1   cup  mixed  raisins,  nuts, 

1  teaspoon  soda  dates 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg.  Mix  soda  with  apple 
sauce  and  add  flour,  spices,  vanilla  and  fruit.  Beat  for  one  minute. 
Turn  into  pan  and  sift  granulated  sugar  over  top.  Bake  forty 
minutes. 

Louise  Whitmore  Arthur,  New  Haven,  N.  Y. 

Boston  University. 
CHEESE  CAKE 
Crust — cream  Y2  cup  sugar  and  XYi  tablespoons  butter;  add  one 
egg,  34  teaspoon  baking  powder,  flavoring  and  enough  flour  to  roll. 
Roll  thin  and  line  two  pie  pans  or  square  cake  pans. 
Cake — one  pound  cottage  cheese  creamed  through  sieve,  one  cup 
sugar,   1  tablespoon  flour,  yolks  four  eggs,  one  pint  cream,  stiffly 
beaten  whites  last.    Vanilla.   Bake  until  firm. 

Leah  Kahn,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Put  into  a  deep  baking  bowl 

1  small  cup  granulated  sugar       2  eggs — unbeaten 

Salt  4  tablespoons  cold  water 

1  cup  flour  sifted   with  Flavoring 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  all  ingredients  together  five  minutes.  Bake  in  unbuttered  loaf 
pan  in  slow  oven. 

M.  Jeannette  Martin,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

C9 


^TiT  Ti, 


SPONGE  CAKE 

4  egg  yolks  (beaten)  1  cup  sugar 

4  tablespoons  cold  water  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  }/2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  flour  4  egg  whites 

Beat  egg  yolks,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  beating.  To  flour 
add  baking  powder  and  cornstarch.  Sift  into  yolks  and  sugar ;  add 
water,  also  vanilla  and  beat  thoroughly.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  ungreased  tube  pan  and  bake  forty  min- 
utes in  slow  oven.  When  done,  invert  pan  on  cake  cooler  but  do 
not  remove  cake  until  cold. 

Beth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CREAM  PUFFS 

1  cup  hot  water  i^  cup  butter 

1  cup  pastry  flour  4  eggs 

Heat  the  butter  and  water  until  the  mixture  boils.  Add  the  flour 
all  at  once  and  beat  thoroughly.  Cook  three  to  five  minutes,  until 
mixture  clings  to  spoon  and  leaves  sides  of  saucepan.  When  cool 
add  the  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Drop  by  tablespoon  on  buttered  baking  sheets  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  about  forty-five  minutes.  (Be  sure  they  are  thoroughly 
done.  Will  be  dry  on  outside.)  Open  at  the  side  and  fill  with  cream 
filling  and  dust  with  ix)wdered  sugar. 

Cream  Filling 

2  cups  scalded  milk 

y^  cup  sugar 

1  Yi  teaspoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Moisten  the  flour  with  some  of  the  cold  milk.  Add  this  to  the  hot 
milk.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly 
until  thickened.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Add  to 
them  the  hot  liquid  and  butter.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  the  egg  thickens,  stirring  constantly.   When  cool  add  flavoring. 

Charlotte  Martin,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

ORANGE  CREAM  LAYER  CAKE 

Yi  cup  shortening  yi  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  %  cup  flour  I  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  sweetened  flavored 

1  cup  milk  whipped  cream 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  well;  add  beaten 
egg,  one-half  milk — then  mix.  Add  one-half  flour  sifted  with  salt 
and  baking  powder;  add  remainder  of  milk,  flour  and  flavoring.  Mix 
after  each  addition.  Bake  in  two  greased  tins  in  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Spread  whipped  cream  thickly  between  layers 
and  cover  top  with 

Orange  Frosting 

1  tablespoon  cream  K  teaspoon  orange  flavoring 

1  cup  confectioner's  sugar  Pulp  and  rind  of  1  orange 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
Add  sugar  to  the  cream  slowly.   Then  add  orange  pulp,  rind,  flavor- 
ing and  melted  butter.   Beat  until  smooth  and  spread  on  top  of  cake. 

Edith  Morgan,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 


^  cup  flour 

2  eggs 

Y2,  teaspoon  salt 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


70 


ORANGE  SHORTCAKE 

2  cups  bread  flour  6  tablespoons  shortening 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoon  salt  Milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar  Oranges 

Mix  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar,  and  sift  together  four 
times.  Work  in  shortening,  using  tips  of  fingers.  Beat  egg  yolks; 
add  milk  to  make  three-fourths  of  a  cup;  stir  into  flour,  mixing  with 
a  knife.  Put  on  board,  knead  slightly,  roll,  cut  out  with  a  large 
biscuit-cutter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Split  shortcakes,  butter 
generously,  fill  with  oranges  that  have  been  pared,  cut  in  thin  sec- 
tions and  sweetened.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  marshmallow 
cream,  or  ice  cream. 

Evelyn  Leander,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

ORANGE  LOAF  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  yi  cup  butter 

2  cups  orange  juice  Grated  rind  of  one  orange 
4  eggs  lyi  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder        yi  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  egg  yolks,  beating  constantly.  Mix 
and  sift  flour  with  salt  and  baking  powder  and  add  alternately 
with  liquid  to  the  batter.  Do  not  grease  tin  but  line  pan  with 
waxed  paper  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes. 
Cover  with  orange  frosting  or  use  unfrosted. 

Sidonie  Sewald  Larrance,  Chicago,  111. 
,    ^  Northwestern  University. 

ORANGE  TEA  CAKES 

1 3^  teaspoons  baking  pow-       1 3^  cups  flour 

der  3  eggs — separate  the  yolks 

I  tablespoon  orange  juice  from  the  whites 

1  Yi  cups  sugar  3^  cup  boiling  water 

}/2  teaspoon  salt 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs.    Add  strained  orange  juice  and  sugar.    Heat  for 
ten  minutes.    Add  salt,  boiling  water,  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten,, 
and  flour.    Bake  in  small  gem  pans  in  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes. 
About  twenty  cakes. 

Ruth  Cordes,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

*  PINEAPPLE  CAKE 

5^  cup  fat  K  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  egg  yolks  ^  cup  syrup  drained 

2  cups  flour  from  crushed  pineapple 

2  egg  whites 
Cream  fat  and  sugar.   Add  egg  yolks.   Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add 
alternately  with  pineapple  syrup.    Fold  in  beaten  whites.    Bake  in 
moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

Icing 

2  egg  whites  stiffly  beaten         2  cups  powdered  sugar 
^  cup  crushed  pineapple 
Beat  well  and  add  powdered  sugar  until  mixture  holds  its  shape. 

Doris  Bunnelle,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         C:OOK'      BOOK 

71 


•¥iT  ff 


ANGELFOOD  CAKE 


Whites  of  1 1  eggs 

1  cup  pastry  flour  sifted  6 

times 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 


1  ^2  cups  sugar  sifted  6  times 
1   level  teaspoon  cream  of 

tartar 
}4  teaspoon  almond  extract 


Beat  eggs  until  stiff.  When  about  half  beaten  add  cream  of  tartar 
and  finish  beating.  Fold  in  sugar,  add  flavoring.  Then  fold  in  flour. 
Pour  in  ungreased  pan  and  bake  very  slowly  forty-five  to  sixty 
minutes. 

Mildred  Brown,  Cedar  Rapids,  la. 
Coe  College. 

MOCK  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

}4  cup  milk  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  Swan's  Down  cake  3  teaspoons  (level)  baking 

flour  powder 

1  pinch  salt  2  egg  whites,  beaten  very  stiff 

Heat  milk  to  boiling  point.  Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  five  times  and  stir 
into  hot  milk.  Add  flavoring  and  fold  in  egg  whites.  Do  not  use  a 
greased  pan.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  slow  oven,  increasing  heat 
when  cake  is  at  top  of  pan.    When  done  invert. 

Charlotte  E.  Dines,  Evanston,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 
Part  I — Chocolate  Sauce 

1     cup    bakers    chocolate        I  cup  brown  sugar 
(grated)  1  cup  milk 

Boil  until  thickened.     When  cool,  add  two  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Part  II 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  cups  flour 

j4  cup  butter  }/2   cup  sour  milk — I    tea- 

2  eggs  spoon  soda 

Cream  sugar  and  brown,  add  beaten  egg  yolks,  milk  in  which  soda 
has  been  dissolved  and  flour.  Add  cooled  chocolate  sauce  and  fold 
in  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Place  in  greased  tins  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Use  a  mocha  frosting. 

Frosting 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  cocoa 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  tablespoons  coffee 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  continuing  the  beating; 
then  add  cocoa  and  coffee  until  stiff  enough  to  spread. 

Margaret  Roberts  Jones,  Coldwater,  Mich. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE  (POTATO) 


2  cup>s  granulated  sugar 
4  eggs,  yolks 

2  squares  Baker's  Chocolate 

(grated,  about  K  cup) 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  cups  flour 


^  cup  crisco 

1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes 
}4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
K  cup  milk 
1  cup  nut  meats 


Cream  together  sugar  and  crisco,  then  cream  with  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs.  Stir  in  the  mashed  potatoes,  grated  chocolate  and  nut  meats. 
Sift  together  the  flour,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  and  stir  in  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Beat  thoroughly  and  lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  white 
of  eggs.    Makes  large  cake. 

Lois  Walker,  Berkeley,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


FUDGE  CAKE 

I  ]A  cups  sugar  y^  cup  butter 

K  cup  chocolate  dissolved         3  egg  yolks 

in  water  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2>^  cups  flour  2K  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  nuts — cut  fine  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  light — added  last 
Cream  sugar  and  butter;  add  chocolate,  egg  yolks,  milk  and  flour 
(sifted  with  baking  powder).     Fold  in  the  chocolate,  vanilla  and 
beaten  egg  whites.    Bake  in  buttered  pan  in  moderate  oven. 

Elva  Moore  Christophersen,  Rockford,  111. 

University  of  Illinois. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Part  I 
y^  cup  grated  chocolate  K  cup  strong  coffee 

]/2  cup  brown  sugar 
Put  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  thick.    Cool. 

Part  II 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

yi  cup  butter  1  tteaspoon  baking  pxjwder 

^2  cup  coffee  1  ^  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  coffee,  egg  yolks  and  chocolate  sauce 
(Part  I).  Add  flour  sifted  with  soda  and  baking  powder,  vanilla. 
Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Use  mocha  frosting  between  layers  of  cake. 

J.  Dickson,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 
BUTTERLESS,  EGOLESS,  MILKLESS  CAKE 
2  cups  sugar  (use  brown  if        1  pound  chopped  raisins 

preferred)  2  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  yi  teaspoon  cloves 

Yi  cup  crisco,  or  meat  drip-       yi  teaspoon  allspice 
pings 
Boil  three  minutes  and  cool.   Add  to  this  cold  mixture 

4  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  soda 

This  makes  a  stiff  batter.    Instead  of  all  raisins,  yi  cup  nuts  may  be 

substituted;  if  so,  put  them  in  with  the  flour  after  mixture  is  cool. 

Bake  slowly  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

Mary  More,  Berkeley ,Calif. 
University  of  California. 
PRUNE  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar  1  cup  mashed  prunes 

K  cup  chocolate  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  K  cup  milk 

Flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter 
Cream  sugar  with  butter;  add  milk,  chocolate  and  flour,  which  has 
been  sifted  with  soda  and  baking  powder.    Add  spices  and  prunes. 
Bake  in  buttered  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Icing 
Yi  cup  butter  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  strong  black  coffee     1  tablespoon  chocolate 
Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually.    Add  coffee  and  chocolate. 

Virginia  Kilgore,  Oakland,  Gal. 
University  of  California. 

COLL.EGE         WOMANS         COOK         BOOK 

73 


SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Whites  of  6  eggs  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  1  teasF)oon  cream  tartar 

Yolks  of  6  eggs  1  cup  sifted  flour 

Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  dry,  then  add  sugar  gradually,  beating 
constantly;  then  add  well  beaten  yolks  and  vanilla.    Cut  and  fold  in 
flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.    Bake  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 
Margaret  Roberts  Jones,  Coldwater,  Mich. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

ENGLISH  SPICE  CAKE 

1  package  raisins  1  cup  nut  meats 

1>^  cups  sugar  ^  cup  chopped  citron 

1/2  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
2  teaspxx)ns  soda                         3  cups  flour 

Simmer  raisins  for  20  minutes  in  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
saving  one  large  cup  of  water  to  cool.  Cream  sugar  and  butter. 
Add  beaten  egg  yolks;  also  raisin  water  and  flour  in  which  soda  and 
spices  have  been  sifted.  Add  raisins  and  citron  (carefully  dredged 
in  flour)  and  nutmeats.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Bake  slowly  in  greased 
angel  food  tin  for  60  minutes. 

Helen  Pfeiffer  Higgs,  Peoria,  III, 
Northwestern  University. 

WASHINGTON  PIE 

^  cup  sugar  1  egg  yolk 

Yi  cup  fat  y^  cup  milk 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder        1  beaten  egg  white 

yi  teaspoon  salt 
Cream  fat  with  sugar.    Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt.   Beat  sugar,  fat  and  egg  yolk  together,  and  add  alternately  with 
milk.    Then  fold  in  vanilla  and  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.    Pour  into 
buttered  tin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Custard 

2  cups  milk  K  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  egg  yolk 

y  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Cool.  Spread  on 
top  of  cake  and  serve. 

Rose  Shepherd,  Corvallis,  Ore. 
Oregon  Agricultural  College. 

POTATO  CARAMEL  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  Yi  cup  butter 

2  cups  flour  I  cup  hot  mashed  potato 

Y  cup  sweet  milk  4  eggs 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder         I  cup  grated  chocolate 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  >2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  butter   and   sugar.     Add   yolks  of  eggs,    then   add   milk, 

potatoes,  spices,  and  chocolate.     Mix  baking  powder  in  with  flour. 

Beat  the  batter  well.     Add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and 

the  nuts  last.     This  makes  a  large  loaf. 

Helen  R.  Murray,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

74 


YELLOW  LOAF  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  scant  cup  butter 

1  cup  milk  3  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder        4  whole  eggs — separated 
Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add  milk;  and  flour  which  has  been  sifted 
three  times  with  baking  powder.     Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  eggs.     Bake 
forty  to  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Elsie  Gaiser  Mitchell,  Charleston,  111. 
University  of  Illirwis. 

HOT  WATER  GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  molasses  ^  cup  boiling  water 

2)4  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  }4  teaspoon  ginger  K  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Pour  water  over  molasses  and  add   the  dry   ingredients    (sifted 
together).     Beat  for  about  two  minutes  and  bake  in  a  buttered 
pan  for  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Frances  Barron,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

ANGEL  GINGERBREAD 

yi  cup  sugar  >^  cup  molasses 

1  tablespoon  shortening  1  teaspoon  soda 
yi,  cup  boiling  water  1  egg 

yi  teaspoon  cloves  }4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

}4  teaspoon  nutmeg  1  %  cups  flour 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  moderate. oven. 

Serve  hot  with  whipped  cream — when  used  as  a  dessert.     Serves 
six  persons. 

Louise  Whitmore,  New  Haven,  N.  Y. 
Boston  University. 
CRUMB  CAKE 

3  cups  flour  2  cups  sugar  1  cup  butter 
Rub  all  together  like  pie  crust.   Reserve  about  ^  cup  of  this  and 
to  remainder  add: 

2  well  beaten  eggs  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  teaspoons  molasses 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  yi  teaspoon  cloves 

y^  teaspoon  salt 
Put  in  cake  tin  and  sprinkle  the  ^  cup  of  crumbs  on  top  and  bake 
slowly.     Do  not  frost. 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich, 
University  of  Michigan. 

CRUMB  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  K  cup  butter  and  lard 

}4  teaspoon  allspice  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  lemon  rind  2  eggs  beaten  separately 

1  large  spoon  molasses  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  raisins  dredged  with  flour 
Bake  in  two  layers  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sprin- 
kle one-half  cup  crumbs  on  top  of  one  layer  before  it  is  baked. 

Cream  Filling 
1    cup   scalded   milk   in  a        1  beaten  egg  with  y^  cup 
double  boiler  sugar 

3  level  teaspoons  cornstarch 
Stir  until  thick;  let  cool;  flavor  with  vanilla  extract. 

Evelyn  M.  Ewert,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

75 


DATE  CAKE 

I  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  crisco 

1  egg  1  cup  cut  dates 

1   teaspoon  soda  sprinkled        1  cup  cut  nuts 
over  dates  and  then  fill        1  y^  cups  flour 
cup  with  boiling  water 
May  be  made  by  beating  all  ingredients  together  for  about  two 
minutes  or  by  usual  method  of  creaming  sugar  and  butter;  adding 
water,  soda,  dates,  nuts,  and  flour;  and  lastly  adding  beaten  egg. 
Bake  slowly  in  buttered  tin. 

Evelyn  Flanley  Peterson,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICING 

1  yi  cups  sugar  ]/7.  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  corn  syrup 
Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread,  drop  in  six  marshmallows,  then  pour 
slowly  on  one  stiffly  beaten  egg  white,  add  one-half  teaspoon  lemon 
extract  and  beat  until  nearly  cold. 

Vina  Freitag  Kilby,  Jefferson  City,  Mo. 
University  of  Illinois 
MOCHA  FILLING 
6  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  confectioner's  sugar 

4  tablespoons  dry  cocoa  2  tablespoons  warm  liquid 

1  tablespoon  vanilla  coffee 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  one  cup  sugar.  Sift  in  cocoa.  Beat 
well.    Put  in  coffee  and  rest  of  sugar  and  vanilla. 

Mary  Clendenin,  East  Orange,  N.  J. 
Allegheny  College. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  FILLING 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  brown  sugar 

yi  cup  warm  milk  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

2  tablespoons  cold  milk  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Confectioner's  sugar 

Place  butter  and  brown  sugar  in  saucepan  and  stir  over  fire  until 
they  form  a  candy.  Then  pour  in  ^  cup  milk.  Let  simmer  until 
candy  is  melted.  Now  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  mixed 
with  two  tablespoons  milk.  Beat  up  egg  and  add,  stirring  until  it 
thickens.  Add  vanilla.  Use  more  than  half  for  filling  and  to  the 
rest  add  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to  make  a  paste  for  icing  top 
and  sides  of  cake. 

Edith  Speckman  Kern,  Chicago,  III 
University  of  Minnesota. 

PINEAPPLE  FILLING  FOR  CAKE 

1  small  can  grated  pine-  Yz  cup  sugar 

apple  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  egg  yolk  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cook  until  thick,  let  cool  and  spread  on  cake.  Cover. with  any 
boiled  icing. 

Vina  Freitag  Kilby,  Jefferson  City,  Mo. 
University  of  Illinois. 
SEVEN  MINUTE  FROSTING 
Have  water  boiling  in  bottom  of  double  boiler.    In  upper  part,  put 
white  of  one  raw  egg,  three  tablespoons  cold  water  and  one  cup 
cane  sugar.     Beat  for  seven  minutes  with  a  double  Dover  egg  beater. 
Frosting  should  be  the  consistency  of  marshmallow  cream. 
Note: — Be  sure  water  in  bottom  of  boiler  boils  all  the  time  while 
beating. 

Viola  Michel,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

7« 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Good  for  ice  cream,  boiled  rice,  puddings,  etc. 

1>^  cups  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

yi  cup  cocoa  yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa,  add  boiling  water,  and  stir  and  cook  till  it 
boils.  Let  boil  five  or  six  minutes.  Use  hot  or  cold.  Do  not  flavor 
till  ready  to  use. 

Violet  Long,  Dudley,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM  (Cake  Filling) 

Bake  your  favorite  Sunshine  or  Sponge  Cake  in  tube  pan.  Cover 
over  with  the  following  Bavarian  Cream: 

1    envelope    (scant)    Knox       Yi  cup  water — warm 

gelatine  6  egg  yolks 

1  cup  sugar  1 3^  bottles  plain  cream 

1  Yi  bottles  whipping  cream       Vanilla  to  flavor 
Pinch  salt  1  cup  chopped  almonds 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  water.  Heat  plain  cream  and  mix.  Add  this  to 
eggs  and  sugar,  creamed  together.  Whip  whipping  cream,  add 
vanilla  and  salt,  and  add  to  other  mixture.  When  cool,  spread  thick 
over  cake.  Blanch,  chop  and  brown  almonds  and  sprinkle  over  all. 
Will  serve  sixteen.    Can  be  made  the  day  before.    Keep  cool. 

Beth  Manker  Dobbin,  Wilmette,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

LADY  FINGER  TORTE 

6  eggs  1  cup  almonds  (ground) 

1  tup  sugar  6  stale  lady  fingers  (grated 

yi  teaspoon  baking  powder  and     browned     for     a 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  minute  in  oven.) 

Beat  eggs  well.    Add  sugar  gradually  (constantly  beating  mixture) ; 

then  almonds  and  finally  the  lady  fingers  and  baking  powder.  Flavor. 

FILLING 

1  cup  cream  1  cup  chopped  almonds 

3  egg  yolks  yi  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick;  stir  occasionally.      Serve  between 
the  layers  of  cake  and  top  with  whipped  cream  to  which  has  been 
added  a  small  amount  of  sugar  and  vanilla. 

Vera  Gifford  Nott,  Byron,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

DATE  TORTE 

1  cup  dates  (stoned)  1  Yi  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  yi  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  butter  Y  cup  chopped  walnuts 

1  egg  1  scant  teaspoon  soda  dis- 

solved in  little  boiling 
water 
Cook  stoned  dates  in  \]/i  cups  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Cool. 
Cream  sugar  with  butter  and  add  soda  and  one  cup  of  the  flour. 
Add  dates  (dredged  in  flour),  walnuts  and  one-half  cup  of  flour  with 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  moderate  oven  and  put 
together  with  butter  filling  and  top  with  whipped  cream. 

Butter  Filling 

Cream  butter  size  of  walnut,  add  one  cup  powdered  sugar  and  enough 
milk  to  give  it  the  consistency  for  spreading. 

Marguerite  Rickert  Jones,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

77 


Cookies  6P  Doughnuts 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

J^  cup  butter  2)4,  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  }/2  teaspoon  salt 

34  cup  milk  l^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add  egg;  milk  and  dry  ingredients  (sifted 
together).   Roll  thin  and  bake  in  moderate  ovgn. 

Violet  MacLeod,  North  Tonawanda,  N.  Y. 
University  of  Buffalo. 

SWEDISH  COOKIES 

1  ^2  cups  sugar  Flour — about  5  cups, 

3^  cup  butter  enough  so  that  mixture 

1  cup  sour  cream  will  not  stick  to  board 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  1  teaspoon  flavoring — 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder  vanilla  or  lemon 

1  teaspoon  soda 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs.    Sift  baking  powder  and  soda 
with  flour  and  add  to  mixture  alternately  with  sour  cream.  Sprinkle 
cookies  with  sugar.   Bake  10  minutes  in  a  quick  oven, 

Helen  E.  Heggie,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

SWEDISH  COOKIES 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  ]/i  cup  hot  water  with  1  tea- 

1  cup  of  butter  or  fat  spoonful  soda  dissolved  in 

2  eggs  it 

3  3^  cups  flour  J^  teaspoonful  salt 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
Form  dough  into  a  roll,  let  stand  over  night,  or  for  several  hours  in 
ice  box,  slice,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Helen  Hartsook,  Winterset,  Iowa. 
Northwestern  University. 

FUDGE  SQUARES 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  sugar 

1  egg  3^  cup  milk 

1  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  cocoa 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder         M  teasp)oon  salt 
3^  cup  walnuts  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  butter,  add  sugar  and  egg  unbeaten.  Add  nuts  with  the 
cocoa,  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  which  have  been  sifted  alto- 
gether. Add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  dry  ingredients.  Put  in 
shallow  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Cut  in  squares  before  re- 
moving from  pan. 

Esther  Hunter  Ong,  Champaign,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 
NUT  COOKIES 
1  cup  brown  sugar  34  teaspoon  soda 

]/2  cup  melted  shortening  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1  egg  sifted  with 
]/2  cup  sweet  milk                        1 3^  cups  flour 

2  squares  chocolate,  melted        1  cup  nut  meats 
Drop  with  spoon  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Irene  Gunn  Lucas,  San  Luis  Obispo,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 


COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

78 


CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  i^  cup  butter 

^  cup  milk  Yi  teaspoon  soda  (in  milk) 

1  beaten  egg  1  Yi  cups  flour 

2  squares  melted  chocolate 
Make  as  cake.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  greased  pan.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 
Frost  as  follows: 

1  cup  sugar  6  tablespoons  water 

Butter  size  of  egg  2  squares  chocolate 

Cook  until  it  sticks  together  in  water  (like  fudge) — beat  and  spread 
Before  too  thick.  Add  yolk  of  egg,  beaten  in  slowly  when  frosting 
is  partly  cold. 

Vera  Gifford  Nott,  Byron,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

CHOCOLATE  DIPS 

6  eggs  separated  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

1  cup  sugar  powder 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Add  sugar  and  beat  well,  then  add  beaten 
yolks  and  sifted  flour.  Flavor.  Bake  in  square  pan  in  hot  oven  and 
cool.   Cut  in  small  squares.   Dip  in  following  icing. 

Y  cup  cocoa  2  cups  sugar  1  cup  water 

Boil  until  a  thick  syrup.  Let  cool  and  dip  squares.  Then  roll  in 
powdered  sugar.   This  will  make  36  small  cakes. 

Esther  Hardy  Halsey,  Omaha,  Nebr. 
Brenau  College. 
GINGER  COOKIES 


Yi  cup  sugar 
1  cup  shortening 
yi  cup  molasses 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing powder 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon 


1  egg 

Y^  teaspoon  soda 

3  cups  flour 

Y  teaspoonful  cloves 

1  tablespoonful  ginger 

1  cup  milk 


Mix  the  sugar,  beaten  egg  and  melted  shortening.  Stir  soda  into 
molasses  and  add.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  spices  together 
and  add.  Pour  in  milk  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  cake  may  be  baked  in  a  biscuit  pan,  muffin  tins,  or  rolled  out 
thin  for  cookies.  It  makes  a  dozen  and  a  half  small  cakes.  If  sour 
milk  is  used,  stir  in  Y^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Alice  C.  Taylor,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 


BOSTON  COOKIES 


1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs 

3  cups  flour 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Y  cup  chopped  raisins 

Y  cup  currants 
1 Y2  teaspoons  baking  powder 


If  eggs  are  not  large,  one  or  two  tablespoons  milk  or  water  should 
be  added  to  make  a  stiff  batter.     Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add 
beaten  eggs ;  add  gradually  the  flour  sifted  with  other  dry  ingredients 
Wash  and  dredge  currants  and  raisins  and  add  with  nuts  (alter- 
nating with  flour). 

Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  greased  tin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Makes  about  six  dozen  cookies. 

Dorothy  Joesting  Lundvall,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Goucher  College. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


79 


WINE  DROPS 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  shortening  >^  cup  hot  water 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  soda 

yi  cup  chopped  raisins  4  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves 
Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add  molasses  and  soda  and  then  hot 
water;  wash  and  dredge  raisins  with  flour  and  add  with  egg;  add 
flour  gradually.     Drop  from  spoon  on  well  greased  tins  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven. 

Isabella  Rae  Copleston,  Coxsackie,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

WINE  AND  ROSEWATER  COOKIES 

yi  pound  butter  1  pound  sugar 

3  eggs  Rind  of  1  lemon 

1  glass  red  wine  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
3    teaspoons    rosewater  or       3  or  4  cups  of  flour,  enough 

vanilla  to  roll  out 

Cream  sugar  and  butter;  add  wine,  flavoring;  sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  together  and  add  gradually  to  the  dough,  alternating  with 
well  beaten  eggs.     Roll  out  thin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Makes  six  to  seven  dozen. 

Evelyn  M.  Ewert,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  COOKIES 

2  cups  brown  sugar  5^  cup  butter 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Pinch  of  salt  4  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add  beaten  eggs  and  vanilla;  sift  salt, 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  flour  and  add  gradually  to  the  dough. 
Mix  at  night  and  make  into  a  long  roll.     In  the  morning,  cut  into 
slices  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
A  cup  of  nut  meats  can  be  added  if  less  butter  is  used. 

Loretta  Heilman,  Akron,  Ohioi 
University  of  Akron. 

ALMOND  COOKIES 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  cup  brown  sugar 

^  cup  melted  butter  y^  cup  melted  crisco  or  but- 

\y2  cups  flour  ter  substitute 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  cinnamon  and 
Small  teaspopn  soda  in  flour  salt 

Yi  pound  blanched  almonds 
Mix  and  put  in  loaf.   Let  stand  in  buttered  tins  over  night.   Cut  in 
thin  slices  and  bake  as  wanted.    Will  keep  in  the  ice  box  for  some 
time. 

May  Willis  Whitney,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

PECAN  FIVE  O'CLOCK  TEAS 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  stiff.  To  this  add  one  cup  of  brown  sugar 
(be  sure  that  there  are  no  lumps)  and  one  cup  salted  pecans.  Drop 
portions  about  the  size  of  a  large  walnut  into  a  well  buttered  pan 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 
You  may  use  the  unsalted  pecans,  in  which  event  add  a  little  salt 
to  the  ingredients.   Walnuts  may  be  substituted  for  pecans. 

Mildred  Horn  Hall,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
•  University  of  Minnesota. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

80 


MOLASSES  FRUIT  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  %  cup  shortening 

2  eggs  Yj,  cups  molasses 

1  teaspoon  socia  in  water  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y^  teaspoon  cloves  1%  cups  flour 

2  cups  raisins 
Drop  from  a  spoon  on  greased  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Makes  about  three  dozen  large  cookies 

Vera  Gifford  Nott,  Byron,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

DATE  BARS 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  eggs  yi  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Yi  teaspoon  soda  1 Y  cups  flour 

1 Y  teaspoons  cinnamon  1  cup  dates 

1  cup  nut  meats 
Mix  and  roll  one-quarter  inch  thick  and  cut  in  strips.     Place  on 
buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mary  Hoy  Lonnsbury,  Crawfordsville,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

DATE  BARS 

3  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  teasp>oon  baking  powder 

Y  teaspoon  salt  1  pound  dates,  chopped 
1  cup  walnut  meats,  chopped      Vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  yokes  stiff  and  then  add  sugar  and  beat.  Add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  and  the  dry  ingredients  alternately  to  the 
dough.  Add  the  vanilla,  dates  and  nuts  to  the  mixture  and  spread 
in  a  large  flat  pan  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes.  Cut  in  bars  as 
soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

E.  Violet  MacLeod,  North  Tonawanda,  N.  Y. 

University  of  Buffalo. 

PALMER  COOKIES 
Dough 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Y  cup  butter 

1  egg  Y  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  Y  teaspoon  salt 

1  teascxx)n  vanilla  \Y  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 
Filling 

Y  cup  dates,  ground  Y  cup  raisins,  ground 
Yi,  cup  figs,  ground                      Y  cup  English  walnuts, 
Ya,  cup  black  walnuts,  chopped 

chopped  1  tablespoon    cornstarch. 

Grated   rind   and  juice  of  dissolved  in  water 

one  lemon  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

Y  cup  water 
Mix  all  together  and  cook  until  thickened.     Set  away  to  cool. 
Make  dough  like  any  butter  cake. 

Roll  dough  quite  thin  and  cut  with  cookie  cutter.     Put  one  teaspoon 
filling  in  center  of  cookie  and  place  another  cookie  on  top.     Press 
firmly  around  the  edges.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Black  walnuts  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

Elizabeth  Barnes,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 


FILLED  COOKIES 
Cookie 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  sour  cream                          H  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  soda 

Add  enough  flour  to  roll.  Line  pan  with  very  thin  layer.  Spread  with 
filling,  and  cover  with  another  thin  layer.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Cut  in  squares. 

Filling 

1  cup  sugar  1  package  raisins  or  dates 

2  tablespoons  flour  ground 

1  cup  boiling  water 
Cook  slowly  ten  minutes. 

Vera  Smollett  Rogers,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

DATE  FILLED  COOKIES 

1  Yi  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs 

1  ciy?  thick  sour  cream  33^  cups  flour 

Filling 
}/2  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

Y2  cup  warm  water  1  cup  chopped  dates 

Cook  and  cool. 

Roll  cookies  one-eighth  inch  thick,  spread  with  a  teaspoon  of  filling 
and  cover  with  second  cookie;  press  the  edges  together  and  bake  in 
hot  oven.  Filling  may  have  walnuts  added  or  may  be  made  with 
raisins  or  figs. 

Mildred  Strong  Castle,  Joliet,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 
BROWNIES 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  }A  cup  melted  butter 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  cocoa 
^  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 
Mix  sugar,  coooa  and  butter;  add  eggs,  flour,  vanilla  and  nut  meats. 
Put  in  a  greased  pan  so  that  batter  is  one-half  inch  thick.    Bake  in 
a  slow  oven.    When  cool,  cut  in  oblong  slices. 

Doris  Morton,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 

HERMIT  COOKIES 

2  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cup  butter  (soft)  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

4  tablespoons  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
y^  teaspoon  soda  cinnamon  and  allspice 

Flour  to  roll 
Cream  sugar  and  butter ;  add  eggs  and  beat ;  'then  dredged  raisins, 
milk  and  spices,  soda.      Add  enough  flour  to  roll  dough  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven.    Do  not  have  much  flour  on  cutting  board. 

Georgia  Dickover,  Wilkes-Barre,  Pa. 

Syracuse  University. 
TORTONS 
Whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  stiff;  two  cups  pulverized  sugar  sifted 
three  or  four  times  with  half  teaspoon  cream  tartar;  flavor.    Beat 
twenty  minutes.     Put  in  well-greased  muffin  pans.    Bake  for  one 
hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Marie  Hunter  Calhoun,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Ohio  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

82 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 

^  cup  fat  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  1  cup  raisins 

5  tablespoons  water  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  cups  flour 

2  cups  oatmeal  yi.  cup  nut  meats,  chopped 
Cream  fat,  add  sugar,  then  beaten  eggs.  Cook  raisins  in  the  water 
until  tender.  Add  cinnamon  and  flour  in  which  the  soda  has  been 
sifted.  Add  the  oatmeal;  lastly,  raisins  and  nut  meats  dredged  in 
flour.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 
Makes  three  dozen.                          Lorraine  Best  Dietz,  Ames,  la. 

Iowa  State  College. 
RUSSIAN  ROCKS 
1 X  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  butter 

3  eggs  (beaten  separately)  2^  cups  flour 

1    teaspoon  soda  (in  a    little  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
hot  water)  ^  teaspoon  cloves 

2  cups  pecan  nuts 
Mix  in  the  order  given  and  drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Gwendolyn  Morris,  Corvallis,  Ore. 

Oregon  Agricultural  College. 
ROCKS 
1  cup  sugar  1  cup  butter 

Yi  teaspoon  soda  dissolved        2  eggs,  well  beaten 

in  Yi  cup  sour  milk  2  cups  oatmeal 

1  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y2  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  with  2  cups  flour 
Cream  butter  with  sugar;   add  sour  milk  and  soda.    Then  add  rest 
of  ingredients  in  the  order  given.    Drop  by  tablespoons  on  greased 
tin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.    Makes  three  dozen. 

Elizabeth  Banta,  Low  Point,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 

CHINESE  CHEWS 

1  cup  sugar  Y^  cup  pastry  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  X  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  chopped  dates  1  cup  walnut  meats 

2  eggs 
Mix  dry  ingredients.    Add  nuts  and  dates  and  beaten  eggs.    Spread 
in  thin  sheet.    Bake  and  do  not  allow  to  bake  hard  on  the  edges. 
Cut  in  squares  about   XYa  or  \Y  inches.     When  cool  enough  to 
handle  roll  in  balls  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar. 
Makes  about  36.  J.  McRuer,  Toronto,  Canada. 

Toronto  University. 
VANITIES 

2  eggs  (well  beaten)  Y  teaspoon  salt 

Y  teaspoon  vanilla  or  rose       Flour  to  mix  very  stiff 
water 
Mix  and  roll  as  thin  as  possible;  cut  in  squares  and  fry  in  hot  lard; 
drain  and  sprinkle  on  both  sides  with  powdered  sugar. 

Irma  Strassen  Brady,  Chicago,  111. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

MACAROONS 

Two  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff;  add  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cocoanut, 
three  cups  corn  flakes  and  one  cup  chopped  nuts.  Drop  from  tea- 
spoon onto  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  a  golden 
brown.    Allow  to  cool  and  remove  with  a  knife.    Makes  20. 

Irma  M.  Eraser,  Bloomington,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 


SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  brown  sugar  yi  cup  shortening 

3  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  tablespoon  ginger  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

14.  teaspoon  soda  K  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sour  milk  3  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  flour  and  spices  and  add  alternately 
with  the  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved ;  then  add  one  egg  at 
a  time,  beating  vigorously  with  each  additional  egg.  Pour  into 
buttered  tin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Melba  Burden,  Sonora,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 
GINGER  BREAD 
Put  one  cup  molasses  in  bowl  with  one-half  cup  butter  and  one-half 
cup  granulated  sugar.  Pour  over  this  one  cup  boiling  water  with 
one  large  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  it,  and  let  cool.  Add  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger,  2>^  cups  flour,  two  well-beaten 
eggs  (1  cup  walnuts  and  one  cup  raisins  if  desired). 

Josephine  Compton,  Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 

University  of  Michigan. 
DOUGHNUTS 
1  cup  sugar  '  1%  tablespoons  butter 

3  eggs  i  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        yi  teaspoon  cinnamon 
yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg        1  ]4.  teaspoon  salt 

Flour  to  roll 
Cream  butter  with  sugar;  add  beaten  eggs  and  mix  well.    Add  3^ 
cups  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices, 
alternately  with  milk.    Add  enough  more  flour  to  make  dough  stiff 
enough  to  roll.    Roll  one-fourth  inch  thick;  cut  and  fry. 

Alice  C.  Taylor,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 
^  DOUGHNUTS 

3  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk  yi  teasfxxDn  nutmeg  or  mace 

About  5  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs;  add  sugar  and  beat;  then  add  milk,  flavor  and  dry 
ingredients.  Dough  should  be  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Roll  to 
one-quarter  thickness,  cut  in  rings  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown. 
Drain  and  cool.  Note.  Fat  is  hot  enough  for  frying  when  dough- 
nuts come  quickly  to  the  top  of  fat.  Avoid  turning  more  than  once. 
Do  not  use  old  fats.  Ruth  Gifford  Vielehr,  Chicago,  III. 

Northwestern  University. 

DROP  CAKES 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

yi  cup  shortening  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  milk  Ya,  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together;  add  melted 
shortening  to  the  milk,  egg,  and  flavoring,  mixed  together.  Combine 
the  dry  and  liquid  mixtures  and  mix  well.  Bake  in  individual  tins 
for  20  minutes.    Cover  with 

Jelly  Meringue 
White  of    1    egg  >^  cup  currant  or  grape  jelly 

F\it  egg  white  and  jelly  together  and  beat  with  egg  beater  until  stiff. 

Edith  Morgan,  Evanston,  III, 
Northwestern  University. 

COLLEGE    WO  MANS    COOK    BOOK 

84 


Qandies 


PLAIN  CARAMELS 

}/i  cup  cocoa  3  tablespoons  of  butter 

1  cup  of  com  syrup  Yi  cup  of  brown  sugar 
yi  cup  of  milk                              1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Melt  cocoa  in  the  butter  and  stir  until  smooth,  add  com  syrup, 
brown  sugar  and  milk  and  boil,  stirring  constantly  until  it  will  form 
a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla 
and  beat  until  thick  and  creamy.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cut 
into  squares  when  cold.  Margaret  Warren,  Chicago,  111. 

Northwestern  University. 
ICE  CREAM  CANDY 
1 Y2  cups  sugar  3^  cup  water 

Y  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar       Butter  size  of  an  egg 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  take  from  stove,  add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
let  it  cool  and  pull.    Do  not  stir  while  cooking. 

Regina  Brown,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wcsleyan  University. 

PATIENCE 

Carmelize  one  cup  sugar.  Add  one  cup  milk  and  stir  until  the  sugar 
is  melted.  Add  two  cups  sugar  and  one  cup  milk.  Cook  until  a 
soft  ball  forms  when  tried  in  cold  water,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
two-thirds  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  one  tablespoon  butter.  Beat 
until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  pour  it  into  a  greased  pan. 

Ruth  Scott  Cooley,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Goucher  College. 

POTATO  CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

One  baked  potato  or  more,  according  to  the  amount  of  candy  de- 
sired. Peel,  mash  well  and  add  powdered  sugar  until  the  mixture 
will  take  no  more.  Work  until  it  is  a  smooth  white  mass,  then 
break  off  small  pieces,  roll  into  balls,  and  dip  in  melted  chocolate, 
to  which  a  small  piece  of  paraffin  has  been  added.  Place  on  oiled 
paper  to  harden.  Halves  walnut  meats  may  be  placed  on  top  if 
desired.  Madge  Runey,  Bismarck,  N.  D. 

University  of  Minnesota. 

COCOANUT  FUDGE  CANDY 

Soak  one-half  envelope  Knox  Gelatine  in  three  tablespoons  of 
cold  water  five  minutes.  Put  two  cups  sugar  and  one  cup  milk  in  a 
saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  range,  add  soaked  gelatine,  one- 
half  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  until  creamy 
and  add  one  cup  shredded  cocoanut.    Turn  into  a  buttered  pan. 

La  Vona  Alford,  Bloomington,  111. 
/  Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

KNEADED  FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar  4  tablespoons  cocoa 

2  tablespoons  flour  Pinch  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

1  cup  water 
Mix  dry  ingredients  well.    Add  water  and  cook  till  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.    Remove  from  fire  and  add  butter. 
Let  stand  till  almost  cold.   Add  flavoring  and  beat  until  stiff  enough 
to  be  kneaded.    Knead  and  form  into  a  long  roll  and  slice. 

Eugenie  Shoup,  Battleground,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

85 


DIVINITY  CREAM  . 

3  cups  sugar  1  cup  com  syrup 

1  cup  cold  water  Whites  of  2  eggs 

2  cups  nuts  (finely  chopped) 
Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  stiff  ball  forms  in  cold  water. 
Add  gradually  to  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten.    Beat  until  cpld  and 
then  add  nuts.   Chill  on  buttered  platter. 

Geraldine  Walker,  Baltimore,  Md. 
Goucher  College. 
PENUCHE 
3  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  cream 

3  tablespoons  butter 
Stir  while  cooking  and  cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.   Beat 
until  very  stiff.  Elizabeth  Barnes,  Akron,  O. 

University  of  Akron. 
WALNUT  KISSES 
1  cup  maple  syrup  3^  cup  granulated  sugar 

)^  cup  cold  water  1  egg  white 

1  cup  nuts 
Boil  syrup,  sugar  and  water  until  it  forms  a  firm  ball  in  cold  water. 
Do  not  stir  while  cooking.   Beat  egg  whites  stiff.    Pour  sugar  slowly 
on  eggs  and  beat.   Add  nuts  and  drop  on  a  buttered  plate. 

Esther  Schultz,  Akron,  O. 
University  of  Akron. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  2  cups  raw  p>eanuts 

1  %  cups  Karo  syrup  (white)        1  Yi  cups  water 
1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  yi  rounded  teaspoons  soda,  in  the  water 
Put  sugar,  syrup  and  water  in  deep  kettle  over  hot  fire,  stirring 
until  it  boils — then  cook  until  very  hard  and  brittle  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Immediately  stir  in  butter  and  the  peanuts,  stirring 
briskly  until  the  mass  turns  light  brown  and  the  nuts  pop  apart 
and  give  off  a  blue  smoke.  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  the  vanilla, 
soda  and  water  which  have  been  previously  mixed.  Turn  out  on 
buttered  slab. 

M.  Carrol  Gumm,  Lovington,  111. 
University  of  Illinois. 
NUT  BRITTLE 
Melt  one  pound  sugar  in  an  iron  skillet  and  pour  over  chopped  nuts 
(not  too  finely  chopped).    Have  candy  thin,  not  more  than  one- 
eighth-inch  thick. 

Virginia  Stevenson  Mershon,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

Syracuse  University. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  CANDY 

1  cup  Karo  syrup  yi  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoonful  of  vinegar 

Boil  well  until  it  is  brittle  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 

Elda  Swenson,  Irwin,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 
BUTTER  SCOTCH 
1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

X  cup  molasses  2  tablespoons  boiling  water 

yi  cup  butter 
Boil  until  brittle,  when  dropped  in  cold  water.    Pour  into  buttered 
pan  and  while  cooling,  mark  it  in  squares. 

Mary  Perkins,  Maiden,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

86 


DATE  KISSES 

2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  1  cup  of  confectionery  sugar 

1  cup  walnut  meats  chopped     1  cup  chopped  dates 
Drop  from  a  spoon  and  bake  until  slightly  browned.    (They  burn 
easily  on  the  bottom.)    If  you  grease  the  pan  do  it  slightly.    This 
recipe  makes  about  thirty  kisses. 

Helen  Millhoff,  Johnstown,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

PEPPERMINT  CANDY 

Boil  two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  vinegar  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  When  it  gets  cool  enough  to 
handle,  1  put  one  and  one-half  or  two  teaspoonfuls  extract  of  pepper- 
mint in  the  candy  and  stir  it  in  just  before  pulling  it.  I  .cut  the  candy 
after  pulling  it  out  into  light  yellow  strips.  I  cut  the  candy  into 
inch  cubes.  Each  piece  can  be  wrapped  in  a  twist  of  paraffin  paper 
before  packing  into  the  box. 

Mildred  Decker  Rolfe,  Maiden,  Mass. 
Boston  University, 

LOLLY-POPS 

1  yi  cups  white  sugar  yi  cup  white  Karo  syrup 

%  cup  water  Any  flavor 

Boil  all  ingredients  except  flavoring  until  it  will  become  brittle  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  flavoring  and  coloring  if 
desired.  Cool  in  buttered  pans.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  make 
into  balls,  or  other  shapes  and  place  on  sticks.  Meat  skewers  may 
be  used. 

Frances  Cooper,  Chatfield,  Minn. 
University  of  Minnesota. 

TAFFY  APPLES 

1  yi  cups  sugar  %  cup  water 

Yi  cup  com  syrup  4  tablespoons  butter 

Apples  and  spit  sticks 
Cook  all  but  apples  to  soft  ball  stage  when  tested  in  cold  water. 
Insert  sticks  in  apples  and  dip  apples  in  hot  syrup.   Hold  apples  in 
air  a  minute  or  so  until  the  taffy  sets  a  little.   Lay  on  greased  paper. 

Eunice  Prutsman,  Chicago,  111. 
De  Pauw  University. 

RED  CROSS  CANDY 

yi  cup  raisins  yi  cup  peanuts 

1  shredded  wheat  biscuit 
Run  through  food  chopper  and  then  add  one-half  pound  melted 
sweetened  chocolate  and  mix  thoroughly.    Pour  out  in  buttered  tin 
and  mark  in  bars  when  cold. 

Ella  Krans  Stephens,  Whitestone,  Malba,  L.  I. 

Syracuse  University. 

PARISIAN  SWEETS 

1  pKDund  prepared  dates  2  tablespoons  orange  juice 

1  pound  figs  yi,  cup  honey 

1  pound  nuts 
Cleanse  fruits  and  nuts.    Put  through  meat  chopper  and  mix  thor- 
oughly.   Add  orange  juice  and  honey.  Shape,  roll  in  chopped  nuts, 
cocoanut  or  chocolate. 

Marjorie  Beebe,  Wakefield,  Nebr. 
Iowa  State  College. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

87 


FIG  LOAF 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  of  cream 

1  pound  of  figs  chopp  ed 
Boil  sugar  and  crecm  until  soft  ball  forms  in  cold  water,  then  poxxt 
on  buttered  platter,   when  cool   enough   to  handle,   knead   with 
fingers  and  roll  into  a  loaf  after  kneading  in  the  figs. 

Laura  Kiehl,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washingtcwi. 

FRUIT  CANDY 

3  cups  sugar  K  cup  nut  meats 

1  cup  milk  ^2  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

12  dates 
Cook  sugar  and  milk  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Add  chopped  dates  and  let  simmer  until  dates  soften. 
Remove  from  fire  and  after  adding  nuts  and  cocoanut,  beat  until 
creamy.  Pour  into  wet  cloth  and  leave  till  candy  hardens;  then 
slice. 

Bess  Kessner  Capps,  Emporia,  Kan. 
De  Pauw  University. 

CANDIED  APPLES 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  water  Apples 
Boil  to  heavy  syrup.  Pare  apples,  cut  in  slices  one-fourth  inch 
thick,  cored  whole  or  cut  in  round  slices.  Drop  in  syrup.  Cook 
until  transparent.  Place  on  platter  in  op>en.  Dry  twenty-four 
hours.  Roll  in  granulated  sugar.  Let  stand  another  twenty-four 
hours.  Roll  in  granulated  sugar  again.  May  be  colored  blue,  red 
or  green  if  desired. 

Alma  Hansen,  Atlantic,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL 

2^  cups  sugar  1  cup  water 

Peel  from  6  oranges 
Cut  orange  F)eel  into  long  strips.  Put  in  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water.  Boil  gently  until  peel  is  tender  but  not  broken.  Drain  and 
spread  on  broad  platter  to  cool  while  making  syrup. 
Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  water  fast  for  ten  minutes. 
Put  in  cooled  peel  and  cook  fast  until  syrup  is  very  thick  and  re- 
duced to  half  the  original  quantity.  Take  from  fire  and  carefully 
stir  in  one  cup  granulated  sugar.  When  nearly  cold  pick  peelings 
apart  and  spread  upon  a  sieve  to  dry.  Pack  in  paper  boxes  strewing 
granulated  sugar  between  layers. 

Helen  P.  Higgs,  Peoria,  III. 
Northwestern  Universj|y.'^4r 


CANDIED  GRAPEFRUIT  PEEL 

1  grapefruit  1 34  pounds  sugar  to  1  quart 

Cut  grapefruit  rinds  in  pieces  and  soak  in  slightly  salt  water  a  day 
and  a  half.  Drain  water  off  and  put  cold  water  on,  and  boil  rapidly 
about  ten  minutes.  Change  the  water  and  boil  again.  Continue 
changing  the  water  and  boiling  four  or  five  times.  Then  drain  off 
all  water  carfefully,  leaving  rinds  as  dry  as  possible.  Add  sugar  and 
stir,  cooking  very  slowly  over  a  slow,  steady  heat.  Stir  well — do 
not  allow  to  scorch.  When  it  begins  to  crystallize,  stir  rapidly. 
Then  empty  upon  oiled  paper,  sprinkling  well  with  sugar. 

Clara  Jakes,  La  Fayette,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

C    O    L    L    E    G    H         W     O    .M    A    .N    •    S         COOK         BOOK 

88 


mm 


STUFFED  FRUIT 

Dates  Figs  Prunes 

Prepare  fruits,  stuff  with  fondant,  peanut  butter,  nuts,  cherries, 
fruits,  marmalade,  etc.  Press  in  shape,  roll  in  granulated  sugar, 
nuts  or  mixture  of  cocoa  and  cinnamon. 

Pearl  Apland,  Ames,  Iowa. 
Iowa  State  College. 

GLACE  NUTS  AND  FRUITS 

Drop  blanched  nuts,  two  or  three  at  a  time  into  the  glace  syrup. 
Remove  with  a  fork  and  place  on  oiled  paper  or  marble  slab.  Uo 
not  stir  the  glace.' 

For  glace  fruits,  grapes,  strawberries,  sections  of  mandarins  and 
oranges  and  candied  cherries  may  be  used.  Be  sure  all  materials 
are  thoroughly  dry  before  dipping.  These  will  only  keep  for  a  day 
and  should  only  be  done  in  clear,  cold  weather. 

GLACE 

(A  thin  film  of  heavy  sugar  syrup) 

1  pound  sugar  1  cup  cold  water 

}i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  ingredients  into  a  sauc^^.p.an  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling  point, 

stirring  constantly-  qptil  sugar  if^hjglted.     Boil  without  stirring  until 

syrup  begins ^to  discolor   (3ip°}.     (Wash  off  sugar  from  sides  of 

sauce  pan  as  in  making  fondant),  iflemove  saucepan  from  tire 

and  place  in  large  pan  of  cold-water  to  instantly  stop  the  boiling. 

Remove  from  cold  water  and  keep  pan  in  hot  water  while  dipping. 

Grace  Johnson  Taylor,  Toledo,  Qhio. 
Syracuse  Universi^, 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ^ 

^  cup  figs  '  1  >^  cup  nut  meats 

^  cup  raisins  Juice  pf  ^2  lemon 

^  cup  stoned  dates  ^4  teaspoon  salt 

Rind  of  ^2  orange 
Chop  fruit  and  nuts  or  put  through  coarse  grinder.    Press  in  sheet    . 
about  1  inch  thick.    Press  into  pan  lined  with  oil  paper.    Use  weight-v; 
if  necessary  in  order  to  get  firm  cake.    Cut  in  bars.     This  may  be  >^ 
made  into  balls  and  either  balls  or  bars  rolled  in  cocoanut  or  chopped^^  ■'■■^, 
nuts  or  dipped  into  chocolate  or  sugar.  ^* 

Lucile  Peck,  Menomonie  Falls,  WiscB^-  - 
Northwestern  University,    ^il*^ 

ITALIAN  CREAMS 

23^  or  3  cups  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

1  cup  milk  (diluted  canned)  1  teaspoon  butter 

^2  teaspoon  vanilla 
Cara,mel  one  cup  of  sugar.    Boil  the  rest  of  the  sugar  with  the  milkj 
Let  boil  awhile  and  then  add  the  caramel  very  gradually,  stirrii  "' 
briskly.    Let  it  boil  until  a  small  bit  dropped  in  cold  water  forms 
soft  ball.    Add  butter  and  vanilla.    Cool,  beat,  pour  oi|t  on  plattc 
and  cut  in  squares.     Nuts  may  be  added  if  desir^  and  are  ah 
improvement. 

Marion  Brown  Comeliussen. 
University  of  Illinois. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

8P 


3  cups  sugar 


FONDANT 

Ya,  teaspoon  cream  tartar 
1  cup  water 


Cook  slowly  and  remove  from  fire  when  a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold 
water.  Do  not  stir  while  on  the  fire.  Remove  from  fire,  when  cold, 
beat  until  creamy  and  of  consistency  to  shape. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  cup  water  1  heaping  tablesp>oon  butter 

1  teasFKX)n  vanilla  or  lemon  juice 
Boil  steady  without  stirring  until  a  brittle  mass  is  formed  in  cold 
water.     Remove  from  fire  and  add  flavor  and  turn  into  buttered 
pan  and  mark  off  into  squares. 

Beryl  Wamary,  Chicago,  III. 
Northwestern  University. 

GUMDROPS 

Soak  six  and  one-half  tablespoons  granulated  gelatin  in  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  cold  water  until  liquid  is  absorbed.  In  saucepan  put 
one  and  one-third  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  white  corn  syrup,  and 
one  tablespoon  water.  Stir  until  well  mixed,  color  with  green  or 
red  color  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Boil  without  stirring  until 
mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Add  gelatin, 
stir  over  fire  one  minute,  add  three  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  strain 
and  add  a  few  drops  oil  of  lime  or  cinnamon.  Let  stand  5  minutes 
in  cool  place.  Sift  cornstarch  lightly  into  a  shallow  cake  pan  placed 
in  a  large  pan  or  tray.  Very  gently  level  off  the  top  with  a  knife. 
Make  impressions  in  starch  with  end  of  knife  handle.  Pour  gum- 
drop  mixture  into  impressions,  using  a  teaspoon  or  a  confectioner's 
funnel — leave  until  firm.  Place  in  sifter  and  shake  off  extra  starch, 
hold  a  moment  in  steam  and  roll  in  coarse  granulated  sugar.  (While 
one  batch  is  hardening  the  rest  will  become  hard,  heat  again  so  will 
pour  into  molds.) 

Helen  Burgert,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa. 

Coe  College. 
PATIENCE 

2  cups  of  sugar  1  cup  nut  meats 

1  cup  of  condensed  milk  1  small  package  marshmallows 

Melt  one-half  cup  of  the  sugar  and  at  the  same  time  let  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  the  sugar  and  the  cream  come  to  a  boil.  Add  the 
melted  sugar  slowly,  Stirring  constantly.  Test,  when  done  beat 
nearly  hard,  add  nuts  and  cut  up  marshmallows,  beat  until  hard. 

Mabel  Flanley,  Boston,  Mass. 
University  of  Washington. 


COLLEGE 


W    OMAN 
90 


COOK 


BOOK 


'Pickles  &^  Sauces  . 

CHUNK  PICKLES 

Cut  cucumbers  in  thick  slices  and  put  in  salt  water  over  night  (or 
three  hours  will  do).  Drain.  For  one  quart  of  cucumbers,  take  one 
pint  of  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard  seed,  two 
teaspoons  mixed  spices  and  a  little  stick  cinnamon.  Put  vinegar 
and  sugar  on  fire.  When  hot  put  in  cucumbers  and  stir  until  they 
turn  color.  Then  put  in  cans  and  cover  tightly.  When  they  have 
cooled,  pour  off  the  juice  and  heat,  pour  over  pickles  and  seal. 

Louise  Merriman  Winner,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Syracuse  University. 
PICKLES 
Small  pickles  are  preferable.    Wash  cucumbers  and  dry  perfectly. 
Fill  jars  with  pickles.   Mix: 

1  gallon  cider  vinegar  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  ground  mustard  1  cup  salt 

Heat  through  and  pour  over  the  pickles  in  the  jars.   Seal  while  hot. 

Helen  Fomecker,  Akron,  Ohio. 
University  of  Akron. 
FRENCH  PICKLES 
20   cucumbers    (not   larger       6  onions  sliced 
than  three  inches)  sliced        1  pint  vinegar 
lengthwise  1  cup  brown  sugar 

1   teaspoon  each  of  celery  seed,  mustard  seed,  pepper, 
cinnamon,  salt  and  tumeric. 
Slice  cucumbers,  sprinkle  with  salt,  let  stand  one  hour.   Then  drain 
add  other  ingredients  and  let  come  to  a  boil.   Seal  in  Mason  jars. 

Marguerite  Richert  Jones,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

University  of  Wisconsin. 
SPICED  PRUNES 
1  pound  prunes  Lemon 

3 -inch  stick  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  cloves 

Yi  cup  cider  vinegar  ^  cup  brown  sugar 

Soak  prunes  over  night.  Cook  them  slowly  in  the  water  in  which 
they  have  been  soaked  with  a  bag  of  spices  and  two  slices  of  lemon. 
When  tender,  add  vinegar  and  brown  sugar.  Cook  slowly  until 
syrup  is  thick.  Clara  Jakes,  La  Fayette,  Ind. 

De  Pauw  University. 
SPICED  CURRANTS 
5  pxDunds  currants — picked        4  pounds  sugar 
1  pint  vinegar  1  wine  glass  cloves 

1  wine  glass  stick  cinnamon 
Boil  one-half  hour.    Put  in  sterile  glasses  and  seal. 

Louise  S.  Woods,  Oakland,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 
BEET  PICKLE 
1  quart  cooked  beets  1  quart  raw  cabbage,  chopped 

1  cup  horseradish  fine 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  pepper  ^  teaspoon  red  pepper 

Vinegar  to  cover 
Place  chopped  beets  and  cabbage  in  large  bowl.    Mix  thoroughly 
the  horseradish,  seasonings  with  some  vinegar  and  pour  over  mix- 
ture.  Add  enough  more  vinegar  to  cover  pickle.   Makes  about  one 
gallon.  Elizabeth  Banta,  Low  Point,  111. 

University  of  Illinois. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK         BOOK 

91 


OLIVE  OIL  PICKLES 

Wash  and  slice  thin 

4  dozen  small  cucumbers  1  cup  olive  oil 

1  quart  vinegar  yi  cup  black  mustard  seed 

yi  cup  yellow  mustard  seed       yi  cup  salt 
1  tablespoon  celery  seed  yi  cup  sugar 

Pour  over  cucumbers  and  let  stand  over  night.  Seal  in  jars.  No 
cooking. 

Rhode  Edmonds  Weingartner,  Kiel,  Wis. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

CELERY  SAUCE 

12  stalks  celery  12  large  onions 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  4  red  peppers 

4  cups  sugar  5  tablespoons  salt 

7  cups  vinegar 
Chop  celery,  onions  and  peppers  fine.   Add  sliced  tomatoes  and  other 
ingredients.    Cook  two  hours  or  until  thick.    Makes  nine  quarts. 

Eunice  Prutsman,  Chicago,  111. 
De  Pauw  University. 

CHILE  SAUCE 

5  dozen  red  tomatoes  1  dozen  green  peppers 

6  large  onions  10  cups  vinegar 
10  cups  sugar                                5  tablesp>oons  salt 

1  tablespoQn  ginger  1  tablespoon  cloves 

1  tablespoon  pepper 
Slice  onion  fine;  chop  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onion  all  together  and 
boil  one  hour  without  any  water.    Then  add  remaining  ingredients 
and  cook  two  hours  longer.    Place  in  jars  and  seal. 

Marsha  AUee  Pearson,  Chicago,  111. 
De  Pauw  University. 

RHUBARB  PICKLE 

1  quart  stewed  rhubarb  1  quart  sugar 

1  quart  chopped  oniojns  1  quart  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  ginger  1  tablespoon  salt 

Cook  half  an  hour.  Before  taking  off  fire,  add  a  little  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  cloves. 

Margaret  Dow,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

1  quart  large  cucumbers  2  quarts  tiny  cucumbers, 

sliced  whole 

1  quart  large  onions,  sliced        2  quarts  small  onions,  whole 

2  heads  raw  cauliflower,  cut       3  green  peppers 
in  sections  3  red  peppers 

Cover  with  brine  made  of  one  cup  salt  to  one  gallon  of  boiling  water. 
Let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 

Paste 
1  cup  flour  yi  pound  dry  mustard 

4  cups  sugar  >^  ounce  tumeric 

yi  gallon  cider  vinegar  >^  ounce  celery  seed 

Cook  paste  ten  minutes.  Cook  all  together  ten  minutes.  Drain  salt 
water  off  pickles  and  add  to  paste.  Seal  in  pint  mason  jars.  Makes 
about  eleven  pints. 

Helen  Mc  Illvaine,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
University  of  Southern  California. 


COLLEGE         WQM.^NS         COOK         BOOK 

92 


A** 


^A 


PEPPER  PICKLES 

6  onions  6  green  peppers 

6  red  peppers  1 Y2  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  sugar  1  spoon  salt 

Put  onions  and  peppers  through  grinder  together.  Then  pour 
boiling  water  over  and  let  stand  five  minutes  and  drain.  Add  the 
vinegar,  sugar  and  salt.    Cook  twenty  minutes  and  seal  while  hot. 

Viola  Thurmond,  Seattle,  Wash. 
University  of  Washington. 
YUMMY  PICKLES 
(Uncooked) 
%  peck  ripe  tomatoes  10  cents  worth  white  mustard 

3  ripe  peppers  seed 

3  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  ground  black 
Large  bunch  celery  pepper 

(cut  in  bits)  %  cup  salt 

Dice  vegetables  and  add  seasoning  mixed  with  vinegar.  Pour  over 
all. 

Gladys  Murphy,  Chicago,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

INDIAN  RELISH 

2  quarts  green  tomatoes  6  tablespoons  salt 

(chopped  and  drained)        8  tablespoons  sugar 
1  cup  celery  (chopped  fine)        6  teaspoons  mustard  seed 

4  red  peppers  yi  teaspoon  cinnamon 

yi  teaspoon  cloves 
Combine    ingredients     (tomatoes,    celery    and    peppers).     Cover 
with  two  cups  boiling  vinegar  to  which  has  been  added  salt,  sugar, 
mustard  seed  and  spices.     Bottle. 

Kathryn  Wilson,  Evanston,  111. 
Northwestern  University. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

1  quart  small  cucumbers  1  quart  green  tomatoes 

1  quart  small  button  onions       1  large  cauliflower,  cut  into 
4  red  peppers  (cut  fine)  flowerettes 

Make  a  brine  of  four  quarts  water  and  one  pint  salt,  pour  it  over  the 
vegetables,  and  let  soak  twenty-four  hours. 

Heat  just  enough  to  scald  and  turn  into  a  colander  to  drain.  Mix 
one  cup  flour,  six  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  one  tablespoon  tu- 
meric with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  then  add 
one  cup  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in  all.  boil 
this  mixture  until  it  thickens  and  is  smooth,  stirring  all  the  time, 
then  add  the  vegetables  and  cook  until  well  heated  through. 

Mildred  Mitton,  Dorchester,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 
SPANISH  PICKLES 
1  peck  green  tomatoes  thin-        yi  ounce  allspice  berries 


ly  sliced 
4  onions  thinly  sliced 
1  cup  salt 
^2  ounce  cloves 


yi  ounce  peppercorns 
yi  cup  brown  mustard  seed 
1  pound  brown  sugar 
Cider  vinegar 


4  green  peppers  finely  chopped 
Sprinkle  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes  and  onions  with  salt,  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  put  into  a  preserving 
kettle;  add  the  remaining  ingredients  using  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
all.     Heat  gradually  to  boiling  point  and  boil  one-half  hour. 

Mary  Matkin,  Flatriver,  Mo. 
University  of  Missouri. 


COLLEGE 


WOMAN 


COOK 


BOOK 


93 


^iJWar ma  lades 

AMBER  MARMALADE 

1  orange  1  lemon 

1  grapefruit 
Slice  fruit  very  thin,  rejecting  only  seeds  and  core  of  the  grape- 
fruit. Measure  fruit,  and  add  to  it  three  times  the  quantity  of  water. 
Let  it  stand  in  an  earthen  dish  over  night,  and  next  morning  boil 
for  ten  minutes  only.  Leave  until  next  day,  then  boil  two  hours. 
Measure,  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  and  boil,  stirring  occa- 
sionally that  it  may  not  burn.  Boil  for  about  an  hour  or  until  it 
sheets  from  spoon.  Pour  into  sterile  glasses,  let  stand  until  cold, 
then  cover  with  melted  paraffin. 

Ora  Strong-Davies,  Topeka,  Kans. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Take  equal  number  of  oranges  and  lemons.  Wash  and  take  off  little 
ends.  Weigh,  quarter  and  slice  as  thin  as  possible;  to  every  pound 
of  fruit  add  2>^  pints  of  cold  water  and  let  stand  twelve  hours. 
Cook  until  rinds  are  very  tender.  Do  not  cover  while  cooking. 
Measure  liquid  and  to  every  pint  add  Xyi  pounds  white  sugar, 
which  has  been  heated.   Cook  until  it  jellies. 

Ruth  Gillespy,  Columbia,  Mo. 
University  of  Missouri. 
PEACH  CONSERVE  (Meat  Relish) 
One  dozen  firm,  but  not  too  ripe  peaches,  cut  small.  An  equal  weight 
of  sugar.  One  small  bottle  of  maraschino  cherries  (about  5  inches 
high).  Use  both  cherries  and  liquor.  Cut  up  the  cherries  and  add 
to  the  peaches  and  sugar  and  simmer  until  thick.  Then  put  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  brandy  just  before  putting  in  jars. 

Marion  Medland,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 
1-2-3-4  CONSERVE 

1  quart  currants  (use  only         2  quarts  red  raspberries 

juice)  3  quarts  cherries 

4  pounds  sugar 
Boil  until  it  thickens  like  jelly.  Ethel  Bell,  Chicago,  111. 

Northwestern  University. 
PEACH  CONSERVE 
6  pounds  peaches  6  pounds  sugar 

4  oranges  1  bottle  maraschino  cherries 

Dice  peaches  and  oranges.  Add  sugar  and  cherries.  Boil  slowly 
until  a  portion  cooled  is  of  desired  consistency. 

Jessie  T.  Peet,  Laurens,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 
PLUM  CONSERVE 
16  cups  plums,  seeded  2  oranges 

2  lemons,  juice  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Sugar 
Wash  the  plums,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook  until  soft  in  one-half 
as  much  water  as  fruit.  Then  add  orange  pulp  and  lemon  juice  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Measure  the  mixture,  then  add  ^  quan- 
tity of  warmed  sugar.  Continue  cooking  until  thick.  About  two 
minutes  before  product  is  finished  add  chopped  nuts.  Stir  often  to 
prevent  burning.   Pour  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Cora  Wendt,  Bloomington,  111. 
Illinois  Wesleyan  University. 

COLLEGE         WOMAN'S         COOK         BOOK 

94 


WATERMELON  RIND  PRESERVES 

Rind  of  one  watermelon  j^  cup  salt 

1  pint  cider  vinegar  3>^  pounds  sugar 

1  stick  cinnamon,  broken  up  1  tablespoon  cloves 
Pare  rind,  remove  red  meat  and  cut  in  small  strips.  Boil  in  salt 
water  till  tender — twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Let  drain  over  night. 
Boil  sugar  and  vinegar  five  minutes ;  add  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  add 
rind  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  rind  to  jars  with  perforated 
spoon,  boil  syrup  down  a  little  and  pour  in  jars.  Cover  air-tight  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Marguerite  Oatman,  Berkeley,  Calif, 
University  of  California. 

PUMPKIN  PRESERVE 

5  pounds  pumpkin  4  pounds  sugar 

3  lemons — grated  rind  and       2  oranges — grated  rind  and 
juice  juice 

Remove  peel,  and  cut  raw  pumpkin  in  small  pieces.  Place  in  stone 
covered  jar  or  earthen  vessel  and  add  sugar.*  Let  mixture  stand  over 
night.  Drain  pumpkin  from  the  liquid  and  boil  liquid  until  it  spins 
a  thread.  Add  the  pumpkin,  oranges,  and  lemons,  and  a  few  grains 
of  salt.   Cook  until  thick  and  clear  and  seal  in  jars. 

Kathryn  Robinson,  Bolivar,  Pa. 
Allegheny  College. 

PUMPKIN  MARMALADE 

6  pounds  pumpkin — cut  5  pounds  sugar 

very  thin  slices  6  lemons 

]/i  pound  ground  ginger  root 
Mixed  sliced  pumpkin  and  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.    In  morn- 
ing add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemons  and  ginger  root.    Let  boil 
until  thick  when  cool  seal  in  sterile  glasses. 

Irma  BuUis,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 
Syracuse  University. 

HARLEQUIN  CONSERVE 

25  peaches  1  pound  white  grapes 

10  red  plums  1  orange  sliced 

yi  pound  chopped  almonds  (blanched) 
Cup  up  fruit  and  cook  until  soft.   Add  %  cup  sugar  for  each  cup  of 
fruit.   Do  not  add  sugar  until  fruit  is  half  cooked.   Cook  until  thick 
and  fruit  is  clear.   Add  almonds  when  conserve  is  almost  done. 

Genevieve  Bond  Gelein,  Mt.  Vernon,  N.  Y. 
University  of  Wisconsin. 

PLUM  JAM 

(1  qt.)  14.  bushel  Damson  (13^  cup)  10  lbs.  sugar 

plums  (3^  cup)  ]/^  dozen  oranges 

{14,  teaspoon)  2  tablespoons       (3^  cup)  2  cups  chopped 
grated  orange  rind  nuts 

Prepare  fruit  and  cook  according  to  directions  for  cooking  jam. 
When  it  has  cooked  sufficiently,  remove  from  fire  and  add  grated 
orange  rind,  juice  and  chopped  nuts.  Stir  well,  pour  into  jars  and 
seal. 

N.  B.  If  smaller  portion  is  desired,  follow  proportions  given  in 
parentheses. 

Margaret  Dow,  Toronto,  Can. 
University  of  Toronto. 

COLLEGE        WOMAN'S        COOK        BOOK 

95 


APRICOT  CONSERVE 

1  cup  dried  apricots  3^  cup  shredded  pineapple 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  ^  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  blanched  al-        ^  of  an  orange  peel 

monds  (chopped)  (grated) 

Cook  apricots  until  soft,  shred,  add  pineapple,  lemon  juice,  orange 
peel  and  sugar.  Cook  until  thick  and  clear.  Add  almonds  and  cook 
two  minutes,  then  turn  out  into  glasses.    Makes  three  glasses. 

Dorothy  Morris,  Lx)gan^  Iowa 
Iowa  State  College. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 

1  quart  cranberries  Sugar  to  equal  amount 

Pulp  and  grated  rind  of  3  (measured  after  cooking) 

oranges  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

Cook  the  cranberries  in  barely  enough  water  to  float  them.  When 
all  the  berries  are  broken  and  the  fruit  has  cooked  to  a  mush, 
measure  the  mixture  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  the  oranges 
and  raisins.  Simmer  the  conserve  until  thick.  Then  pour  into  hot 
sterilized  glasses. 

Mildred  Decker  Rolfe,  Maiden,  Mass, 
Boston  University. 

POLYCHROME  CONSERVE 

y^  pound  evaporated  peaches    Y2  pound  evaporated  apricots 
3^  pound  evaporated  prunes       Juice  1  orange 
Grated  rind  Y2  orange  Yi  cup  seeded  raisins 

Y2  cup  nut  meats  1 Y2  pounds  sugar 

Wash,  soak  over  night,  and  simmer  dried  fruit  till  tender.  Press 
through  sieve.  Grate  peel  of  one-half  orange,  add  juice  to  the  pressed 
fruit,  then  raisins  and  sugar.  Simmer  all  ten  minutes  or  more  till 
thick.   Makes  six  glasses. 

Virginia  Cravens,  Hardinsburg,  Ind. 
De  Pauw  University. 

PEAR  CHIPS 

8  pounds  pears  4  p)ounds  sugar 

Y:  pound  Canton  ginger  4  lemons 

Wash  pears,  remove  stems,  quarter  and  core  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Add  sugar  and  ginger  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  add 
lemons  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Cook  slowly  for  three  hours  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Pour  into 
glasses,  when  cool  seal  with  paraffine. 

Marjorie  Flynn  Matthew,  Woodland,  Calif. 
University  of  California. 

FIG  FILLING 

3  pounds  apple  or  pear  3K  pounds  sugar 
1  pound  figs                                  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Makes  eight  glasses.     Will  keep  like  jelly, 

Genevieve  Betts. 
University  of  Washington. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE 

3  pounds  grapes  3  pounds  sugar 

1  pound  raisins,  seeded  1  ix)und  English  walnuts 

2  orange  pulps  Part  orange  rind,  grated 
Seed  grapes,  chop  raisins,  make  as  a  jelly. 

Margaret  Brainard,  Brookline,  Mass. 
Boston  University. 

COLLEGE    WOMAN'S    C:OOK    BOOK 

96 


I 


4 


