CIPES 


MAUDE 
BOMBERGER: 


.0* 


■■> 


^  ^ 


o1   <<  V 


% 


& 


1  / 


0° 


COLONIAL  RECIPES  FROM  OLD 
VIRGINIA  AND  MARYLAND  MANORS 


COLONIAL    RECIPES 

FROM     OLD     VIRGINIA 
AND   MARYLAND    MANORS 


With  Numerous  Legends  and 
Traditions  Interwoven 


BY 

MAUDE  A.  BOMBERGER 


New  York  and  Washington 

THE    NEALE    PUBLISHING    COMPANY 

1907 


FBRARY  of  CONFESS 
.    Two  Copies  RticaiveO 

DEC  19    1907 

Copyrijcfci  tn(ry 

CLASS    A  ^XXc.  No. 

'   COPY    B. 


It 


Copyright,  1907,  by 
MAUDE  A.  BOMBERGER 


TO 

My  Mother 

Whose  Housekeeping  was  in  Keeping 

With  Her  House — 

Quaint  and  Old-fashioned 


INDEX    TO   RECIPES 

Beverages 
A    Champagne    Punch    for    Ladies     (Mr.    0.    H.    W. 

Hunter),  86 
A  Harvest  Drink   (Hampton),  54 
Catawaba  Wine   (Mr.  O.  H.  W.  Hunter),  85 
Cherry  Bounce  (Weldon),  101 
Mint  Brandy  (Hampton),  81 
Mint  Julep  (Weldon),  80 
Old  Maryland  Apple  Toddy  (Weldon),  98 
Quince  Brandy  (Mr.  G.  A.  Davis),  86 
Tea  Punch  (Mr.  O.  H.  W.  Hunter),  86 

Bread  and  Pastry 
Batter  Bread  (Weldon),  95 
Bread  Cake   (Brandon),  32 
Breakfast  Bread   (Glen  Ellen),  57 
Buns  (Ravensworth),  27 
Fritters    (Arlington),  27 
Graham  Wafers    (Shirley),  31 
Maryland   Biscuits    (Weldon),  94 
Muffin  Loaf   (Audley),   18 
Pastry  (The  Rocks),  41 
Potato  Rolls   (Weldon),  95 
Sally  Lunn  (Weldon),  96 
Southern  Corn  Bread   (The  Rocks),  40 
Thin  Biscuits  (Weldon),  94 


8  Index  to  Recipes 

Cake 
A  Rich  Black  Cake  (Mt.  Vernon),  15 
Black  Fruit  Cake  (Winston),  64 
Black  Cake   (The  Rocks),  38 
Charlotte  Polonaise  Cake  (Castle  Howe),  75 
Ice  Cream  Cake  (Weldon),  97 
Jumbles    (Waverly),  59 
Pound  Cake  (Harewood),  20 
Robert  E.  Lee  Cake   (Buena  Vista),  28 
Sand  Tarts    (Weldon),  99 
Soft  Ginger  Bread  (Glen  Ellen),  56 
Sponge  Cake   (Brandon),  32 
White  Cake  (Castle  Howe),  75 
White  Loaf  Cake  (The  Rocks),  40 
Woodberry  Cake   (Weldon),  99 
Meats 

Boiled  Turkey  (Kingston  Hall),  72 

Creamed  Chicken   (Shirley),  30 

Deviled   Turkey    (Kingston   Hall),   71 

For  Curing  Hams  (Belmont),  61 

Old  Colonial  Easter  Ham  (Weldon),  93 

Old  Maryland  Baked  Ham   (Weldon),  92 

Old  Maryland  Filling  for  Ham  and  Fowls    (Weldon), 

93 
Pickled  Boiled  Fish    (Kingston  Hall),  71 
Pickled  Oysters    (Westover),  35 
Veal  Terrapin  (Weldon),  101 

Pickles 
Cantaloupe  Pickle   (Weldon),  100 


Index  to  Recipes 


Chow  Chow    (Harewood),  21 
German  Pickle   (Harewood),  20 

Puddings,   Desserts,    Etc. 
An  Irish  Potato  Pudding  (Winston),  65 
An  Irish  Potato  Pudding  (The  Rocks),  38 
A  Simple  Potato  Pudding  (Hampton),  54 
Blackberry  Pudding  (Glen  Ellen),  56 
Brown  Betty   (Weldon),   102 
Charlotte  Russe   (Winston),  66 
Cream  Mints  (Weldon),  83 
Genuine    Old    English    Plum    Pudding    (Castle    Howe, 

Randolph   Family),  73 
Gherkin  Preserves  for  Dessert   (The  Rocks),  41 
Hamburg  Cream  (Blakeley),  22 
Mincemeat  for  Pies   (The  Rocks),  40 
Rice  Flour  Pudding   (Waverly),  59 
Tipsy  Pudding   (Weldon),  96 

Sauces  and  Jellies 
Lettuce  Dressing  (Belmont),  62 
Mint  Jelly  for  Lamb  (Weldon),  82 
Mint  Sauce  for  Lamb  (Weldon),  82 
Spiced  Currants  (Oak  Hill),  43 

Soups 
Brown  Soup   (Glen  Ellen),  57 
Chicken  Soup  (Kingston  Hall),  70 
Tomato  Soup   (Weldon),  97 
Vegetable  Soup  (Kingston  Hall),  69 


INDEX   TO   MANORS 


Arlington,  25-28 
Audley,   16-18 
Belmont,  60-62 
Blakeley,  20,  22 
Blenden,   55 
Boonesborough,  87-89 
Brandon,  32 
Buena  Vista,  16,  35 
Castle  Howe,  73-77 
Doughoregan  Manor,  69 
Glen  Ellen,  55-57 
Hampton,  51-54 
Harewood,  19-24 
Kenmore,  16 


Kingston  Hall,  67-72 
Mt.  Vernon,  13-15 
Oak  Hill,  42-44 
Ravensworth,  26,  27 
Ringgold  Manor,   13,  14 
Shirley,  29-31 
The  Cottage,  42 
The  Rocks,  36-41 
Waverly,  58 
Weldon,  90-102 
Westover,  34-35 
White  House,  26 
Williams'  Port,  84-86 
Winston,  63-66 


PART   I 
VIRGINIA 


"  /  wish  I  was  in  the  land  of  cotton, 
Old  times  dar  am  not  forgotten, 
Look    away!    Look    away!     Look    aiuay, 
Dixi    Land." 


MOUNT   VERNON 

Mount  Vernon — the  home  of  Washing-ton 
— why,  the  world  knows  it  by  heart,  and  how 
we  all  love  to  catch  a  breath  of  it  at  times ! 
This  time  it  is  a  savory  breath,  for,  through 
the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Henry  Onderdonk,  of 
Ringgold  Manor,  we  have  a  famous  old  recipe 
from  Mount  Vernon.  The  "  Recipe  for  a 
Rich  Black  Cake  "  is  so  suggestive  of  a  Co- 
lonial wedding  in  the  South  that  we  can  al- 
most see  the  wide  old  kitchen  at  Mount 
Vernon,  with  its  brick  floor,  and  the  gracious 
"  Lady  Washington,"  as  she  was  called  in 
those  days,  her  Recipe  Book  in  hand,  giving 
orders  to  her  faithful  servants  for  the  won- 
derful preparations  going  forward,  prepara- 
tions for  the  wedding  of  her  granddaughter, 
Nellie  Custis,  to  Major  Lawrence  Lewis,  the 
favorite  nephew  of  the  General.  This  wed- 
ding was  solemnized  in  the  drawing-room  at 
Mount  Vernon  on  February  22,  1799,  the  last 
birthday  that  Washington  spent  on  earth.  It 
was  a  brilliant  occasion,  and  General  Wash- 


14  Mount  Vernon 

ington  himself  gave  the  bride  away.  This 
famous  old  recipe  was  an  inheritance  to  Mrs. 
Onderdonk  from  her  great-grandmother,  Mrs. 
Hazelhurst,  of  Philadelphia,  to  whom  it  was 
given  by  Mrs.  Washington  herself.  General 
and  Mrs.  Washington  were  at  that  time  liv- 
ing in  Philadelphia,  for  General  Washington 
was  filling  the  office  of  President  of  the  United 
States.  Mrs.  Washington  and  Mrs.  Hazel- 
hurst were  devoted  friends,  and,  after  the 
death  of  General  and  Mrs.  Washington,  Mrs. 
Lawrence  Lewis  gave  to  Mrs.  Hazelhurst,  as 
a  little  memento  of  her  grandmother,  a  china 
sugarbowl  which  had  been  used  daily  at 
Mount  Vernon  by  General  and  Mrs.  Wash- 
ington, and  which  is  now  numbered  by  Mrs. 
Onderdonk,  of  Ringgold  Manor,  among  her 
Colonial  heirlooms.  And  not  less  precious  to 
her  is  the  little  recipe  from  Mount  Vernon — 
such  a  homely,  human  little  thing.  Yet  the 
magnificent  silver  cake  basket  and  the  Peale 
miniature  of  her  great-grandmother,  Mrs. 
Hazelhurst,  which  were  buried  during  the 
Revolutionary  War  to  insure  their  safety,  are 
not  more  sacred  to  her  than  this  little  recipe. 
Before  her  marriage  Mrs.  Onderdonk  was 


Mount  Vernon  15 

the  beautiful  and  accomplished  Miss  Mary 
Latrobe  of  Baltimore,  the  daughter  of  Mr. 
Benjamin  H.  Latrobe,  the  great  engineer,  and 
granddaughter  of  Mr.  Benjamin  H.  Latrobe, 
the  famous  architect  and  engineer,  who  was 
the  first  architect  of  the  Capitol  building  at 
Washington,  and  other  noted  buildings.  This 
is  the  famous  recipe : 

TO    MAKE   A    RICH    BLACK    CAKE 

{Mount  Vernon) 

Take  20  eggs;  divide  the  whites  from  the 
yolks,  and  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth.  Then 
work  2  pounds  of  butter  to  a  cream,  put  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  it,  a  spoonful  at  a  time, 
until  well  mixed.  Then  put  2  pounds  of  sugar, 
finely  powdered,  in  it  in  the  same  manner. 
Then  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  2.\ 
pounds  of  flour,  and  5  pounds  of  fruit.  Add 
to  this  \  ounce  of  mace,  a  nutmeg,  \  pint  of 
wine,  and  some  French  brandy.  Five  and  one- 
quarter  hours  will  bake  it. 

Mrs.   Washington, 

Mount  Vernon. 


AUDLEY 

Nellie  Custis — what  a  household  name  it  is 
in  Old  Virginia!  Through  the  kindness  of 
her  great-granddaughter,  Miss  Marie  Stewart 
Lewis,  of  "  Buena  Vista,"  a  famous  old  recipe 
belonging  to  her  grandmother,  Mrs.  Lorenzo 
Lewis,  is  given.  Mrs.  Lorenzo  Lewis  was  the 
daughter-in-law  of  Nellie  Custis,  Miss  Marie 
Stewart  Lewis  is  of  distinguished  Virginia  an- 
cestry. Her  father,  Colonel  John  Redmon  Coxe 
Lewis,  was  the  son  of  Lorenzo  Lewis  and 
Esther  Maria  Coxe  Lewis,  who,  as  Miss 
Esther  Coxe  of  Philadelphia,  was  a  recognized 
belle  of  her  day.  She  was  descended  from 
John  Redmon  Coxe,  who  was  one  of  the  com- 
mittee appointed  by  Queen  Elizabeth  to  revise 
the  Episcopal  Prayer-Book.  Lorenzo  Lewis 
was  the  son  of  Nellie  Custis  and  Major  Law- 
rence Lewis,  who  was  the  son  of  Colonel 
Fielding  Lewis  and  Bettie  Washington  of 
Kenmore,  who  was  the  sister  of  General 
Washington. 

Colonel  Lewis  had  many  pleasant  memories 
16 


Audley  17 

of  his  distinguished  grandmother,  beautiful 
Nellie  Custis.  Among  them  was  one  that  he 
often  told,  one  that  reads  like  a  little  poem; 
how  she  kept  a  little  trundlebed  under  her 
bed,  when  he  was  a  little  boy,  and  she  would 
pull  it  out  herself  and  tuck  him  in  it  whenever 
he  got  sleepy.  And  when  Nellie  Custis  fell 
asleep  for  the  last  time  at  Audley,  the  old 
Lewis  home,  which  was  a  perfect  treasure 
trove  of  Washington  heirlooms  from  Mount 
Vernon,  where  there  are  traditions  attached 
to  every  corner,  it  was  this  favorite  grandson, 
Colonel  John  Redmon  Coxe  Lewis,  who  car- 
ried her  body  to  Mount  Vernon  to  rest  among 
kindred  dust  in  that  hallowed  spot. 

Colonel  John  Redmon  Coxe  Lewis  was  an 
officer  in  the  old  navy,  and  was  with  Commo- 
dore Perry  when  he  opened  the  Port  of  Japan, 
but  when  war  was  declared  between  the 
States  he  resigned  from  the  navy,  and  became 
an  officer  in  the  Confederate  Army,  where  he 
served  with  distinction  throughout  the  war. 
Colonel  Lewis  married  Miss  Maria  Byrd  Free- 
land  of  Richmond,  who  was  a  toast  and  belle 
of  that  city  before  the  war.  In  "  A  Diary 
from   Dixie,"   Mrs.    Chestnut's   fragrant   little 


1 8  Audley 

book  of  those  rose-and-lavender-scented  days, 
we  read  much  of  this  famous  belle.  Among 
other  things  there  is  a  description  of  her  wed- 
ding-, which  was  a  brilliant  event. 

MUFFIN    LOAF 

{Audley) 

Four  eggs ;  beat  whites  and  yolks  sepa- 
rately; i  large  spoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into 
i  quart  of  flour;  \  pint  yeast,  i  cup  of  warm 
milk.  Set  to  rise  at  12  o'clock  M.  for  tea. 
Mrs.  Lorenzo  Lewis, 

(Who  married  the  son  of  Nellie  Custis  and 
Lawrence  Lewis,  nephew  of  Washington.) 


HAREWOOD 

Colonel  Samuel  Washington,  the  eldest  full 
brother  of  General  George  Washington,  built 
the  homestead  of  Harewood,  which  is  said  to 
have  been  modeled  after  an  old  Washington 
mansion  in  England.  He  died  at  the  age  of 
47,  having  been  married  five  times.  His  vari- 
ous wives  were  Jane  Champe,  Mildred  Thorn- 
ton, Lucy  Chapman,  Annie  Steptoe,  and 
Suzannah  Perrine. 

General  George  Steptoe  Washington,  son 
of  the  fourth  Mrs.  Washington,  was  one  of 
the  five  nephews  whom  General  Washington 
named  as  his  executors  and  to  whom  he  left 
his  swords.  He  married  Lucy  Payne,  a  sister 
of  the  beautiful  Dolly  Madison. 

Harewood  has  sheltered  many  illustrious 
guests,  among  them  the  Marquis  de  Lafay- 
ette and  James  Madison,  and  it  was  in  this 
stately  old  mansion  that  Dolly  Payne  became 
the  wife  of  James  Madison,  Father  of  the  Con- 
stitution, and  twice  President  of  the  United 
States. 

The  Colonial  mantelpiece  in  the  drawing- 
19 


20  Harewood 

room  at  Harewood  was  a  gift  to  the  Washing- 
ton family  from  Lafayette. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Miss  Christine 
Washington,  of  Harewood,  the  great-great- 
granddaughter  of  Colonel  Samuel  Washing- 
ton, these  favorite  old  recipes  from  Harewood 
and  also  from  Blakeley  are  given. 

POUND    CAKE 

{Harewood) 
One  pound  of  butter  rubbed  until  it  is  soft 
as  cream,  i  pound  of  flower  sifted,  I  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  10  eggs  well  beaten  sepa- 
rately. Put  alternately  into  the  butter,  sugar, 
flour,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Beat  all 
well  together.  Flavor  with  lemon,  nutmeg, 
and  a  tablespoon  of  French  brandy. 

GERMAN    PICKLE 

(Harewood) 

To  7  pounds  of  fruit  of  any  kind  put  3 
pounds  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  %  ounce 
of  mace.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar, 
spice,  and  vinegar  together.  Pour  it  over  the 
fruit  and  let  it  stand  2  days;  the  third  day 
scald  the  fruit  and  sugar  together. 


Harewood  21 

CHOW    CHOW 

{Harewood) 

One-half  peck  tomatoes,  2  large  heads 
of  cabbage,  15  onions,  25  cucumbers,  1  pint 
of  grated  horseradish,  \  pound  of  mustard 
seed,  little  onions  (left  whole),  \  teaspoon  of 
ground  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  tumeric,  1  tea- 
spoon of  ground  cinnamon.  Cut  the  cucum- 
bers, onions,  and  cabbage  in  pieces  and  pack 
down  with  salt  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain  them  and  put  them  to  soak  in  vinegar 
and  water  for  a  day  or  two.  Drain  again  and 
mix  with  the  spices  and  put  on  the  fire  with 
3  pounds  of  sugar  and  enough  vinegar  to 
cover  the  whole.  After  it  is  cold  mix  \  pound 
of  ground  mustard  with  \  pint  of  salad  oil 
and  mix  it  well  with  the  pickle. 

SHE   WAS    A   BEAUTY 

Rondel 

She  was  a  beauty  in  the  days 
When  Madison  was  President; 
And  quite  coquettish  in  her  ways — 
On  conquests  of  the  heart  intent. 
Grandpapa,  on  his  right  knee  bent, 
Wooed  her  in  stiff,  old-fashioned  phrase — 
She  was  a  beauty  in  the  days 
When  Madison  was  President. 


22  Harewood 

And  when  your  roses  where  hers  went 
Shall  go,  my  Rose,  who  dates  from  Hayes, 
I  hope  you'll  wear  her  sweet  content 
Of  whom  tradition  lightly  says : 
She  was  a  beauty  in  the  days 
When  Madison  was  President. 

— H.  C.  Bunner. 


HAMBURG    CREAM 

{A  favorite  dessert  at  Blakeley) 

Five  eggs,  i  lemon,  \  pound  sugar.  Mix 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  with 
the  sugar  and  yolks  of  the  eggs.  As  soon  as 
it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten  in  and  take  quickly  from  the  fire 
and  serve  in  glasses. 

Miss  Christine  Washington, 

Harewood. 

THE    LEGEND    OF    ST.    GEORGE^    CHAPEL 

Several  miles  from  Harewood  are  the  old 
ruins  of  St.  George's  Chapel,  around  which  is 
woven  a  most  interesting  legend  of  Alverder 
the  Beautiful.  Surrounding  the  ruins  is  an 
old  graveyard,  and  on  one  of  the  graves  rests 
an  old-fashioned  marble  slab.  It  is  weather- 
beaten  and  winter-scarred,  save  at  the  bottom, 


Harewood  23 

where  it  is  worn  white  as  if  by  the  constant 
kneeling  of  someone  upon  it.  From  this  grave 
a  little  foot-path — it  has  such  a  human  look 
about  it! — leads  to  where  there  was  at  one 
time  a  gate  or  stile. 

Tradition  tells  that  there  was  in  those  early 
Colonial  days  a  beautiful  maiden  named  Al- 
verder,  who  was  a  member  of  old  St.  George's 
Chapel.  Her  portraits,  still  hanging  upon  the 
walls  of  some  of  the  old  mansions,  show  her 
to  be  of  exquisite  loveliness.  And  of  course 
her  lovers  were  legion.  Among  them  there 
were  two  who  seemed  to  be  favored,  but  the 
girl  was  unable  to  decide  between  them,  until 
one  Sunday  when  they  both  appeared  at  her 
home  to  escort  her  to  service  at  St.  George's 
Chapel.  One  rode  a  beautiful  white  horse, 
leading  another  just  like  it,  on  which  was  a 
sidesaddle.  The  other  suitor  came  in  a  hand- 
some vehicle,  driving  two  dashing  bays.  Al- 
verder  came  out  on  the  piazza  dressed  in  a 
riding  habit.  She  dismissed  the  other,  and 
rode  to  church  with  the  man  of  her  choice. 
That  evening  at  four  o'clock  a  duel  was 
fought  by  the  lovers  in  the  old  churchyard, 
in    which    the    accepted    lover    was    mortally 


24 


Harewood 


wounded.  He  died  shortly  afterward.  His 
rival  disappeared,  and  it  is  said  he  died  in  a 
foreign  land. 

The  morning  after  the  duel  Alverder  came 
to  the  chapel  and  knelt  beside  her  dead  lover, 
after  which  she  disappeared  and  was  never 
seen  again.  The  young  man  was  buried  near 
the  spot  where  he  fell  and  a  marble  slab  was 
placed  over  his  grave.  It  is  said  that  every 
evening  at  dusk  a  woman  in  black  is  seen 
walking  up  the  lane  which  once  led  to  the 
churchyard,  and  a  narrow  path  is  worn 
across  it  to  the  grave  of  her  unfortunate  lover, 
where  she  kneels  and  weeps  over  the  marble 
slab. 


ARLINGTON 

Arlington,  the  home  of  the  Custises  and 
Lees,  is  another  grand  old  home  that  the  world 
knows  by  heart.  It  was  here  that  Robert  Ed- 
ward Lee  wooed  and  won  the  beautiful  Mary 
Custis,  daughter  of  Washington  Parke  Custis, 
and  it  was  here  in  1831  in  this  stately  old 
mansion  that  they  plighted  their  troth,  the 
ceremony  being  performed  by  the  Rev. 
William  Meade,  afterward  Bishop  of  Vir- 
ginia. A  little  story  about  this  wedding  is 
still  told  by  the  members  of  the  Lee  family. 
The  Rev.  Mr.  Meade  was  caught  in  a  severe 
thunder  storm  when  he  was  on  his  way  to  the 
wedding  and  was  completely  drenched  with 
the  rain.  He  had  to  borrow  clothing  from 
Mr.  Custis,  and  as  the  latter  was  short  and 
stout  and  the  clergyman  tall  and  thin,  his  ap- 
pearance was  very  amusing.  He  was  forced 
to  wear  his  surplice  all  the  evening  to  hide 
the  misfit  of  his  garments. 

Now,  it  was  not  the  custom  in  those  days 
to  take  a  wedding  journey,  and  after  the  wed- 

25 


26  Arlington 

ding  the  guests  all  remained  for  a  week-end 
party.  And  it  is  told  that  every  night  at  the 
hour  of  retiring  the  servants  brought  in  a 
brimming  punch-bowl,  an  heirloom  in  the 
Custis  family,  it  having  been  given  to  General 
Washington  by  Colonel  Fitzhugh,  a  former 
aide-de-camp.  Inside  of  the  bowl  was  painted 
a  ship  with  the  hull  resting  in  the  bottom ;  and 
it  was  the  rule  of  the  house  to  drink  down  to 
the  hull  of  the  ship. 

But  these  days  are  gone,  and  the  light  has 
gone  out  of  Arlington,  yet  it  is  sweet  to  think 
of  its  master  as  a  radiant  angel  beyond  the 
stars. 

Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Mary  Tabb 
Lee  of  Ravensworth,  we  have  these  old  recipes 
from  Arlington  and  from  Ravensworth.  Mrs. 
Lee  is  the  widow  of  General  W.  H.  F.  Lee, 
known  during  the  war  as  "  Rooney  "  Lee,  who 
was  the  second  son  of  General  Robert  E.  Lee. 
He  was  born  at  Arlington  in  1837,  ar,d 
served  in  the  Civil  War  in  every  grade  from 
captain  to  major-general.  After  the  war, 
General  Lee  settled  down  as  a  planter  on  the 
old  Custis  estate,  "  White  House,"  which  was 
the  scene  of  George  Washington's  marriage  to 
Mrs.    Custis.      He   afterward    made    Ravens- 


Arlington  27 

worth  his  home,  a  place  noted  for  its  wonder- 
ful beauty.  It  was  the  old  Colonial  manor  of 
the  Fitzhughs.  Mrs.  Lee  was  before  her  mar- 
riage Miss  Mary  Tabb  Boiling,  and  she  still 
lives  at  Ravensworth. 

These  are  the  old  Lee  recipes: 

FRITTERS 

{Arlington) 

Make  up  1  quart  of  flour  with  1  egg  well 
beaten;  a  large  spoonful  of  yeast,  and  as 
much  milk  as  will  make  it  a  little  softer  than 
muffin  dough.  Mix  it  early  in  the  evening. 
In  the  morning,  when  well  risen,  work  in  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Make  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  fry  a  light  brown 
in  boiling  lard.  Serve  with  wine  and  sugar 
or  molasses. 

BUNS 

(Ravensworth) 

Make  up  at  night,  1  quart  of  flour,  1  cup 
of  yeast,  and  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Set  to  rise.  In  the  morning  add  4  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  and 
enough  flour  so  you  can  work  it;  then  set  to 


28  Arlington 

rise  again.  When  light  make  out  into  round 
rolls  or  buns  and  let  stand  in  pan  to  rise  again ; 
then  bake.  When  nearly  done  brush  the  tops 
with  white  of  an  egg  and  sprinkle  sugar  on 
thin.  Mrs.  Mary  Tabb  Lee. 

The  following  is  not  a  Colonial  recipe,  but 
it  seems  most  fitting  that  it  should  be  placed 
here,  and  especially  so  as  it  is  given  by  Mrs. 
John  Redmon  Coxe  Lewis  of  "  Buena  Vista," 
who  was  a  cousin  of  General  Robert  E.  Lee, 
and  her  husband,  Colonel  Lewis,  was  a  first 
cousin  of  Mary  Custis,  wife  of  General  Lee. 

ROBERT    E.     LEE    CAKE 

(Buena  Vista) 
Ten  eggs,  the  weight  of  10  eggs    in  sugar, 
half   the   weight    in   flour,    the   juice    of   one 
lemon.      Make    like    sponge-cake,    bake    like 
jelly-cake. 

FILLING    FOR    CAKE 

To  2  pounds  of  pulverized  sugar  add  the 
juice  of  5  oranges  and  the  peel  grated  of  3. 
The  juice  of  3  lemons.  This  must  not  be 
spread  upon  the  cake  until  cold.  This  quan- 
tity will  make  2  cakes  and  3  layers  in  each. 
Mrs.  John  Redmon  Coxe  Lewis. 


SHIRLEY 

Shirley,  the  home  of  the  Carters  on  the 
James  River,  was  built  in  1642,  and  has  been 
described  as  a  palace.  Robert  Carter,  called 
"  King  "  Carter  from  his  enormous  grants  of 
land  from  the  Crown,  wielded  enormous 
power,  and  the  old  chronicles  tell  us  that  the 
homage  received  by  him  was  like  that  ac- 
corded royalty.  On  Sunday  the  congregation 
in  the  country  church  did  not  enter  until  after 
the  arrival  of  the  Carter  coach,  when  all  fol- 
lowed Mr.  and  Mrs.  Carter  into  the  building, 
one-quarter  of  which  was  reserved  for  the 
Carters  and  their  dependents.  "  King  "  Car- 
ter is  buried  near  this  little  church  which  he 
himself  built  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  on  the 
slab  that  marks  his  grave  we  read,  "  Here  Lies 
1  King '  Carter  and  his  Seven  Wives." 

Shirley  has  sheltered  many  distinguished 
guests,  among  them  were  Lafayette,  the  Mar- 
quis of  Lome,  and  William  Makepeace 
Thackeray. 

And  it  was  a  Carter  of  Shirley  who  gave  to 
the  South  its  Lee :  for  General  Henry  Lee, 
29 


30  Shirley 

known  as  "  Light  Horse  Harry,"  of  Revolu- 
tionary fame,  married  Anne  Hill  Carter,  of 
Shirley,  and  their  youngest  son  was  Robert 
Edward  Lee. 

Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Charles  Reid 
of  Baltimore,  who  was  before  her  marriage 
the  beautiful  Donna  Carter  of  Shirley,  the 
daughter  of  Captain  William  Fitzhugh  Carter 
of  the  old  Navy,  the  following  old  recipe  from 
Shirley  is  given : 

CREAMED    CHICKEN 

{Shirley) 

One  pound  cold  chicken  or  turkey.  Cut  as 
for  salad;  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  ounces  butter 
rubbed  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Cover 
the  chicken  with  milk,  say  1  pint;  and  let  it 
get  hot.  Stir  in  the  butter  and  flour,  salt,  red 
and  black  pepper,  and  1  glass  of  sherry. 
When  ready  to  serve  stir  in  the  eggs  chopped 
fine  and  serve  at  once,  very  hot. 

SHIRLEY 

Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Bransford, 
the  present  owner  of   Shirley,   the   following 


Shirley  31 

old  recipes  from  Shirley  and  Brandon  are 
given : 

Before  her  marriage  Mrs.  Bransford  was 
the  beautiful  Alice  Carter  of  Shirley,  and  the 
daughter  of  Robert  Carter  of  Shirley,  who, 
being  the  oldest  son,  inherited  the  grand  old 
place. 

Robert  Carter  was  an  officer  in  the  old 
Navy,  and  he  married  Miss  Humphreys  of 
Annapolis.  Two  beautiful  daughters  blessed 
this  marriage,  Alice  and  Marion.  The  latter 
married  Mr.  John  Oliver  of  Georgia,  an  officer 
in  the  Navy,  and  Alice  married  Mr.  Brans- 
ford.  The  wedding  was  solemnized  at  Shir- 
ley, and  was  a  large,  old-fashioned  one  lasting 
a  week,  and  there  are  still  those  living  to  whom 
it  is  a  dear  memory. 

GRAHAM    MUFFINS 

{Shirley) 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour, 
3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  milk 
to  make  a  soft  batter,  2  eggs. 

Mrs.  Bransford, 

Shirley. 


BRANDON 

SPONGE    CAKE 

(Brandon) 

Ten  eggs,  weight  of  them  in  sugar,  weight 
of  5  of  them  in  flour,  juice  and  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Beat  eggs  separately,  then  mix,  add- 
ing sugar  and  flour,  lastly  the  lemon. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Mrs.  Gulie  Har- 
rison, wife  of  Mr.  George  Harrison  of  Bran- 
don, and  present  mistress  of  the  stately  old 
home  of  the  Harrisons  on  the  James  River, 
this  famous  old  recipe  from  Brandon  is  given. 
Mrs.  Harrison  says  she  has  seen  it  only  at 
Brandon,  although  it  is  possible  others  may 
have  it. 

BREAD    CAKE 

(Brandon) 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  i  pound 
sugar,  9  ounces  butter,  3  gills  of  milk,  \  pint 
yeast,  4  eggs.     Work  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
32 


Brandon  33 

gether,  put  the  yeast  in  the  flour  and  -J  the 
butter  and  sugar  and  also  the  milk,  and  beat 
it  all  some  time.  Set  it  where  it  will  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  if  well  risen  add 
the  rest  of  the  butter  and  sugar  and  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  Some  desire  currants,  raisins, 
and  a  little  nutmeg  or  mace.  Beat  all  well 
together,  then  set  to  rise  again.  It  must  be 
very  light  when  you  put  it  in  to  bake. 

Mrs.  Gulie  Harrison. 


WESTOVER 

Westover  was  built  by  Colonel  William 
Byrd,  who  has  been  described  as  a  "  Vir- 
ginian of  Virginians,  and  the  perfect  flower  of 
his  day."  It  is  recorded  that  his  plantation 
was  a  veritable  principality,  and  he  lived  on 
it  in  lordly  style.  The  old  place  is  steeped  in 
legends,  traditions,  and  memories  of  his 
daughter  Evelyn,  who  was  a  famous  beauty 
and  made  a  great  stir  in  London,  where  she 
was  presented  at  the  Court  of  George  I.  It 
is  said  that  a  fan  she  used  on  this  occasion  is 
still  preserved  at  Brandon,  also  some  of  her 
gowns,  and  several  magnificent  portraits  of 
her,  painted  by  Sir  Peter  Lely  and  Sir  God- 
frey Kneller.  It  is  recorded  that  while  in 
London  courtiers  and  cavaliers  combined  to 
pay  her  court,  and  an  attachment  sprang  up 
between  her  and  a  Roman  Catholic  nobleman. 
But  her  father,  a  staunch  adherent  to  the 
Church  of  England,  refused  his  consent  to 
their  marriage,  and  they  parted  forever,  the 
beautiful  Evelyn  finally  dying  of  a  broken 
heart  on  November  13,  1737.  She  was  buried 
34 


Westover  35 

in  the  little  churchyard  on  almost  the  same 
spot  where  she  had  bidden  her  lover  farewell. 
Her  grave  is  marked  with  a  marble  slab  on 
which  is  a  lengthy  inscription  characteristic  of 
the  time  in  which  she  lived.  Through  the 
kindness  of  Mrs.  Maria  Byrd  Freeland  Lewis 
of  "  Buena  Vista,"  wife  of  Colonel  John  Red- 
mon  Coxe  Lewis,  a  recipe  belonging  to  her 
great-aunt,  Miss  Nancy  Byrd  of  Westover,  is 
given.  Miss  Nancy  Byrd  was  the  grand- 
daughter of  Colonel  William  Byrd  of  West- 
over,  and  a  niece  of  Evelyn  Byrd  of  Westover. 

PICKLED    OYSTERS^ 

(  Westover) 
Take  from  a  gallon  of  oysters  all  the  liquor 
except  enough  to  keep  them  from  burning. 
Put  on  with  a  little  spoonful  of  mace  (the 
blades)  and  a  little  spoonful  of  white  pepper 
(whole).  The  powdered  does  not  look  as 
well.  Let  them  stew  until  they  begin  to 
plump.  Then  take  them  off.  Let  them  get 
cold.  Add  vinegar  to  your  taste.  If  there 
should  not  be  enough  liquor  add  some  before 
putting  in  the  vinegar. 

Miss  Nancy  Byrd, 

Westover. 


THE   ROCKS 

Two  centuries  ago  The  Rocks  was  built 
by  Lord  and  Lady  Wormsley  of  England,  and 
they  were  buried  on  the  estate.  The  Lewis 
family  have  lived  here  for  generations,  and 
their  old  Colonial  recipes  are  famous. 
Through  the  kindness  of  Miss  Anne  Payne 
Lewis  of  The  Rocks,  some  of  these  old  Lewis 
recipes  are  given. 

Miss  Lewis  is  of  distinguished  ancestry. 
She  is  the  great-great-granddaughter  of 
Colonel  George  Muse,  the  man  who  taught 
General  Washington  military  tactics,  so  tradi- 
tion says.  His  son,  Battaile  Muse,  attended  to 
General  Washington's  business  in  the  coun- 
ties of  Berkeley,  Fauquier,  and  Loudoun,  Gen- 
eral Washington  having  given  to  him  a  power 
of  attorney  to  act  as  his  agent.  He  also  at- 
tended to  the  business  of  Lord  Fairfax  and 
occasionally  to  that  of  General  Daniel  Mor- 
gan of  Revolutionary  fame. 

The  Lewis  family  of  The  Rocks  have  in 
36 


The  Rocks  37 

their  garret  an  old  chest  filled  with  letters 
from  Washing-ton,  Fairfax.  Morgan,  .and 
their  contemporaries  which  are  most  interest- 
ing. Mary,  the  daughter  of  Battaile  Muse, 
married  Dr.  John  Lewis  of  The  Rocks,  who 
was  the  father  of  Major  William  Lewis  of 
Stonewall  Jackson's  staff.  Major  Lewis  mar- 
ried Belle  Greene  of  Falmouth,  and  Anne 
Payne  Lewis  is  their  daughter.  Mrs.  Lewis 
was  the  first  cousin  of  General  Turner  Ashby, 
a  gallant  officer  in  the  Confederate  Army,  and 
she  was  also  the  great-great-granddaughter 
of  General  William  Payne,  who  was  a 
warm  friend  of  General  Washington. 

It  is  a  historical  fact  that  General  Washing- 
ton and  General  Payne  had  a  dispute  one  day 
in  which  both  gentlemen  lost  their  temper, 
and  General  Payne  knocked  General  Wash- 
ington down.  The  next  day  General  Wash- 
ington sent  General  Payne  his  apology  for 
what  he  had  said  to  offend  him  on  the  previ- 
ous day,  and  the  messenger  arrived  just  as 
General  Payne  was  getting  ready  to  send  his 
apology  to  General  Washington,  so  the  matter 
was  amicably  settled. 


38  The  Rocks 

BLACK    CAKE 

(The  Rocks) 

Five  eggs,  1  pint  flour,  ^  pound  butter,  -| 
pound  sugar,  \  pint  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus  dissolved  in  \  pint  of  sour  cream;  4 
teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  and  add  raisins  or 
currants  if  you  like. 

Mrs.  Mary  Muse  Lewis. 

irish  potato  pudding 

(The  Rocks) 

Take  the  yolks  of  7  eggs,  8  ounces  sugar, 
12  medium-sized  potatoes;  beat  sugar  and 
eggs  well  together,  add  7  ounces  butter  and 
the  juice  and  rind  of  an  orange.  Mix  all  well 
together  and  bake  in  pans  lined  with  pastry. 
Seasoning  may  be  wine  and  nutmeg  instead 
of  orange. 

Mrs.   Duff  Greene  and 
Mrs.   W.   H.   F.  Lewis, 

The  Rocks 


The  Rocks  39 


WHEN  DE  CO'N  PONE'S  HOT 

il  Dey  is  times  in  life  when  Nature 

Seems  to  slip  a  cog  an'  go, 
Jes  a-rattlin'   down  creation, 

Lak  an  ocean's  overflow ; 
When  de  worl'  jes  stahts  a-spinnin' 

Lak  a  pickaninny's  top, 
An'  yo'  cup  o'  joy  is  brimmin' 

Twell  it  seems  about  to  slop. 
An'  you  feel  jes  lak  a  racah 

Dat  is  trainin'  fu'  to  trot — 
When  yo'  mammy  ses  de  blessin' 

An'  de  co'n  pone's  hot." 

"  I  have  heerd  o'  lots  o'  sermons, 

An'  I've  heerd  o'  lots  o'  prayers, 
An'  I've  listened  to  some  singin' 

Dat  has  tuk  me  up  de  stairs 
Of  de  Glory-Lan'  an'  set  me 

Jes'  below  de  Mahster's  th'one, 
An'  have  lef  my  hawt  a-singin' 

In  a  happy  aftah  tone; 
But  dem  wu'ds  so  sweetly  murmured 

Seem  to  tech  de  softes'  spot, 
When  my  mammy  ses  de  blessin' 

An'  de  co'n  pone's  hot." 


4-0  The  Rocks 

SOUTHERN    CORN    BREAD 

(The  Rocks) 

One-half  pint  corn  meal  (white),  §  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  §  cup  sour  milk,  i  teaspoonful 
•soda,  3  eggs,  a  piece  of  lard  one-half  the  size 
of  an  egg ;  melt  the  lard ;  beat  the  eggs  very 
light  before  using.     Bake  in  pans. 

Mrs.  Mary  Muse  Lewis, 

The  Rocks. 

WHITE    LOAF    CAKE 

(The  Rocks) 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  corn 
starch,  2\  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup 
butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  of  tartar. 

MINCEMEAT 

{The  Rocks) 

One  pound  beef,  2  pounds  suet,  4  pounds 
sugar  (brown  if  you  can  get  it),  2  pounds 
currants,  3  pounds  raisins,  \  pound  citron,  \ 
pound  dates  and  figs,  1  ounce  mace,  1  ounce 
cloves,   3   pounds   chopped  apples.     Boil  beef 


The  Rocks  41 

and  cut  fine,  chop  suet,  mix  all  together,  and 
mix  with  French  brandy,  adding-  wine  when 
ready  to  use. 

Miss  Anne  Payne  Lewis, 
«  The  Rocks. 

GHERKIN    PRESERVES    FOR    DESSERT 

(The  Rocks) 

Pick  tender  gherkins  (burr  cucumbers)  and 
soak  for  2  months  in  salt  brine  that  bears  an 
egg]  then  soak  4  days  in  water,  pouring  this 
off  every  day  and  pouring  scalding  water  on 
them;  then  soak  in  alum  water  a  day;  then 
wash  well.  Green  them  in  a  copper  kettle  and 
take  out  the  seeds.  Preserve  like  other  fruit, 
1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  gherkins,  add- 
ing lemons  cut  up.  and  mace.  Serve  with 
cream  for  dessert. 

Miss  Anne  Payne  Lewis. 

pastry 

(The  Rocks) 

Ten  ounces  flour,  6  ounces  butter.  Mix 
with  ice  water  with  a  silver  knife  and  fork. 
Roll  out  on  a  marble  slab. 

Miss  Anne  Payne  Lewis. 


OAK  HILL 

At  Oak  Hill,  the  stately  old  home  of  Chief 
Justice  Marshall  in  Fauquier  County,  life  was 
most  abundant,  and  lavish  hospitality  was 
dispensed  at  all  times  by  the  genial  Judge  and 
his  beautiful  wife,  who  was  before  her  mar- 
riage the  sweet  and  pious  little  Mary  Ambler, 
who  won  the  heart  of  John  Marshall  when 
she  was  only  fourteen  years  of  age,  and  about 
whose  marriage  a  pretty  little  romance  is 
woven.  It  is  told  that  when  John  Marshall 
was  quite  a  young  man  and  a  captain  in  the 
Revolutionary  army  he  fell  in  love  with  little 
Mary  Ambler,  14  years  old,  at  first  sight, 
and  after  the  war  was  over  they  were  mar- 
ried at  "  The  Cottage  "  in  Hanover  County,  a 
family  seat  of  one  of  the  Amblers.  It  is  a 
tradition  that  after  the  groom  had  paid  the 
minister's  fee  his  fortune  was  only  one  guinea 
in  his  pocket!  But  he  lived  to  be  the  greatest 
lawyer  America  has  produced  and  Chief  Jus- 
tice of  the  United  States !  The  Marshalls 
have  always  been  known  for  their  remarkable 
42 


Oak  Hill  43 

intellectual  power,  and  the  Amblers  for  their 
beautiful  piety,  a  characteristic  so  pronounced 
in  that  family  that  it  gave  rise  to  the  saying, 
"  As  pious  as  an  Ambler,"  which  is  still  heard 
in  Old  Virginia  even  in  these  days. 

Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  John  Mar- 
shall, whose  husband  was  the  grandson  of 
Chief  Justice  Marshall,  this  old  Marshall 
recipe  is  given.  It  has  been  used  in  the  Mar- 
shall family  for  generations. 

SPICED    CURRANTS 

{Oak  Hill) 

Six  pounds  of  currants,  4  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  cinnamon, 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cloves.  Boil  twenty 
minutes.     Seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.   John   Marshall. 

A  very  amusing  little  story  is  told  about 
Chief  Justice  Marshall  when  he  was  once 
riding  over  the  mountains  in  Virginia.  His 
gig  became  entangled  in  some  trees  and  un- 
derbrush and  he  seemed  unable  to  extricate  it. 
An  old   darky,   passing  at  the  time,   took   in 


44  Oak  Hill 

the  situation  at  a  glance  and  exclaimed, 
"  Wha'  fo',  marsa,  don't  yo'  back  yo'  hoss?" 
The  Judge,  acting  upon  the  old  darky's  sug- 
gestion, was  immediately  helped  out  of  the 
difficulty,  and  with  much  gratitude  he  called 
out,  "  Uncle,  you  will  find  a  dollar  waiting 
for  you  at  the  next  tavern."  When  the  old 
darky  presented  himself  at  the  latter  place  and 
received  the  thankoffering  he  clasped  it  in 
his  hands  and  exclaimed,  "  Well,  sir,  he  wuz 
a  gemman  fo'  suah,  sir,"  and,  tapping  his 
forehead  with  his  fingers,  added  gravely, 
"  But  he  ain't  got  nuffin'  in  heah." 


"COLONEL    CARTER    OF 
CARTERSVILLE" 

"  Colonel  Carter  of  Cartersville."  Do  we 
know  him?  Why,  we  have  lived  with  him 
so  long  that  he  has  become  to  us  a  living 
figure.  And  Chad — dear  old  Chad!  Just 
listen  and  the  Colonel  will  tell  us  how  to  serve 
and  eat  canvasback  ducks,  and  Chad  will  tell 
us  how  to  eat  "  tar'pin." 

"  Then  the  ducks!  " 

"  Lay  'em  here,  Chad — right  under  my 
nose.  Nozv  hand  me  that  pile  of  plates  sizzlin' 
hot  and  give  that  carvin'  knife  a  turn  or  two 
across  the  hearth.  Major,  dip  a  bit  of  celery 
in  the  salt  and  follow  it  with  a  mou'ful  of 
claret.  It  will  prepare  yo'  palate  for  the  kind 
of  food  we  raise  gentlemen  on  down  my  way. 
See  that  red  blood,  suh,  followin   the  knife! 

"  My  dear  old  Aunt  Nancy  sends  me  a  pair 
every  zveek,  bless  her  szveet  soul!  Fill  yo' 
glasses  and  let  us  drink  to  her  health  and  hap- 
piness." (Here  the  Colonel  rose  from  his 
chair. ) 

45 


46    "  Colonel  Carter  of  Carter sville" 

"  Gentlemen,  the  best  thing  on  this  earth — a 
true  Southern  lady!" 

"  Now,  Chad,  the  red  pepper." 

"  Jelly  f  No,  suh;  not  a  suspicion  of  it.  A 
pinch  of  salt,  a  dust  of  cayenne,  then  shut  yo' 
eyes  and  mouth,  and  don't  open  them  'cept  for 
a  drop  of  good  red  zvine.  It  is  the  salt  marsh 
in  the  early  mornin'  that  you  are  tastin' ,  suh — ■ 
not  molasses  candy." — From  "  Colonel  Car- 
ter of  Cartersville,"  by  F.  Hopkinson  Smith. 

"  Chad  wreaked  his  vengeance  upon  the 
absconding  terrapin  by  plunging  him,  with  all 
his  sins  upon  him,  headlong  into  the  boiling 
pot,  and  half  an  hour  later  tvas  engaged  at  a 
side  table  removing,  with  the  help  of  an  iron 
fork,  the  upper  shell  of  the  steaming  vaga- 
bond." 

"  Tar' pin  jes'  like  a  crab,  Major,  on'y  got 
mo'  meat  to  'em.  But  yo'  got  to  know  'em 
fust  to  eat  'em.  Now  dis  yere  shell  is  de  hot 
plate,  an'  ye  do  all  yo'  eatin'  right  inside  it," 
said  Chad,  dropping  a  spoonful  of  butter,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  into  the 
impromptu  dish. 

"  Now,  Major,  take  yo'  fork  an'  pick  out  all 


"  Colonel  Carter  of  Cartersville  "     47 

dat  black  meat  an'  dip  it  in  de  sauce,  an'  wid 
ebery  mou'ful  take  one  0'  dem  little  yaller 
eggs.  Dat's  de  way  we  eat  tar  pin.  Dis  yer 
stewin'  him  up  in  pote  wine  is  scand'lous, 
can't  taste  nuMn'  but  de  wine.  But  dat's 
tar' pin." — From  "  Colonel  Carter  of  Carters- 
ville," by  F.  Hopkinson  Smith. 


PART  II 
MARYLAND 


MARYLAND 

"  Hark   to   a   wand'ring   son's    appeal, 

Maryland,   my   Maryland ! 
My  Mother  State,  to  thee  I  kneel, 

Maryland,  my  Maryland ! 
For  Liberty  and  Truth  and  Right, 
Let  all  your  loyal  sons  unite, 
Drive  all  invaders  from  thy  sight, 

Maryland,  my  Maryland  !  " 

"  Maryland  is  only  a  rim  of  shore,  a  shell  of  moun- 
tain, but  all  pure  gold." 

— George    Alfred    Town  send. 


HAMPTON 

In  the  Dulaney's  Valley,  steeped  in  mem- 
ories and  traditions,  lies  Hampton,  the  grand 
old  manor  where  the  Ridgelys  have  been 
cradled  for  two  hundred  years.  Robert 
Ridgely,  the  progenitor  of  the  Hampton 
branch  of  the  Ridgelys,  came  to  Maryland  in 
the  ship  Assurance  in  1634.  His  son,  Captain 
Charles  Ridgely,  was  the  builder  of  Hampton, 
which  is  the  most  notable  house  in  Maryland 
and  was  built  in  the  heart  of  Captain  Ridgely' s 
vast  estate  of  10,000  acres,  which  has  de- 
scended from  father  to  son  according  to  the 
English  law  of  primogeniture.  Captain 
Charles  Ridgely  married  Deborah  Dorsey,  a 
demure  little  Methodist,  and  it  is  said  that 
while  while  she  opened  Hampton  House  with 
a  prayer  meeting,  her  less  pious  lord  held  a 
rollicking  card-party  in  the  attic  with  his 
fellow-officers. 

Priscilla,  the  young  sister  of  Deborah 
51 


52  Hampton 

Dorsey  Ridgely,  married  Governor  Charles 
Ridgely,  nephew  and  heir  of  the  gallant  Cap- 
tain who  served  his  country  in  the  Revolu- 
tionary war  and  in  the  Continental  Congress 
in  1776. 

Among  the  many  interesting  heirlooms  at 
Hampton  is  a  magnificent  silver  cup  that  was 
won  by  the  favorite  horse  of  Governor  Charles 
Ridgely  after  it  had  fallen  and  broken  its  leg. 
The  horse  called  the  "  Post  Boy  "  was  put  in 
the  paddock  after  the  accident,  but  when  he 
heard  the  bell  ring  he  jumped  the  fence  and 
came  in  ahead  of  the  other  racers  on  three 
legs. 

The  great  central  hall  of  the  old  mansion  is 
not  only  a  magnificent  picture  of  by-gone 
days,  but  it  is  considered  the  most  perfect 
specimen  of  the  luxury  and  elegance  of  the 
early  colonial  life  now  remaining  intact  in  this 
country.  Its  walls  are  covered  with  family 
portraits  and  rare  old  paintings  by  the  Italian 
masters.  Tradition  says  a  four-in-hand  coach 
can  easily  turn  around  in  this  grand  old  hall, 
which  has  been  the  scene  of  many  brilliant 
social  functions. 


Hampton  5& 

The  drawing-room  and  music-room  also 
abound  in  elegance,  and  are  veritable  treas- 
ure houses  of  art,  with  their  portraits  and 
miniatures  and  rare  old  tapestries.  In  the 
music-room  is  still  standing  the  old  harp 
which  is  175  3^ears  old,  and  which  Sully  por- 
trayed in  his  portrait  of  Mrs.  Charles  Ridgely 
which  is  still  hanging  in  the  old  hallway  at 
Hampton. 

The  terraced  gardens  with  their  carefully 
clipped  borders  of  English  boxwood  are  as 
beautifully  kept  to-day  as  they  were  two  hun- 
dred years  ago,  and  about  them  there  is  a  com- 
pelling charm. 

Hampton  has  been  the  home  of  the  descend- 
ants of  two  Governors  of  Maryland — Gov- 
ernor Charles  Ridgely  and  General  John 
Eager  Howard.  Standing  in  proud  seclusion 
upon  this  grand  old  estate  is  the  family  vault 
built  of  granite,  and  it  is  enclosed  by  a  high 
stone  wall  covered  with  English  ivy.  The 
entrance  to  it  is  made  through  massive  iron 
gates.  Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  John 
Ridgely,  known  by  the  quiet  title  "  Mrs. 
Ridgely  of  Hampton,"  we  have  the  following : 


54  Hampton 

A    HARVEST   DRINK 

(Hampton) 

Mix  with  5  gallons  good  cool  water,  £  gal- 
lon of  molasses,  i  quart  vinegar,  and  2  ounces 
powdered  ginger. 

A    SIMPLE    POTATO    PUDDING 

(Hampton) 

Six  large  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed,  6 
eggs,  a  saucer  of  sugar.  Beat  yolks  and 
whites  separately,  mix  the  sugar  with  the 
yolks,  and  then  add  the  potatoes.  The  whites, 
beaten  to  a  froth,  come  last.  Bake  in  oven 
for  10  to  15  minutes  and  serve.  Some  like  it 
with  cold  butter  sauce. 

N.  B. — This  pudding  will  be  light  or  heavy 
just  as  sponge  cake  is  light  or  heavy.  The 
whites  are  to  be  stirred  in  gently  and  not  al- 
lowed to  stand,  but  be  baked  immediately  and 
served  immediately.  It  is  a  matter  of  calcu- 
lation as  well  as  of  wrist. 

(The  recipe  for  the  famous  old  "  Mint 
Brandy  of  Hampton "  will  be  found  in  the 
chapter  on  "  Mint.") 


GLEN  ELLEN 

Glen  Ellen,  the  stately  old  home  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Robert  Gilmor,  was  considered  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  estates  in  Maryland.  It 
lies  in  the  Dulaney's  Valley  and  joins  Hamp- 
ton, the  estate  of  the  Ridgelys.  Mrs.  Robert 
Gilmor  was  before  her  marriage  the  beautiful 
Miss  Ellen  Ward,  and  she  was  the  mother  of 
the  late  Mr.  William  Gilmor  and  of  Judge 
Robert  Gilmor.  Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs. 
Nannie  Keys  Levering  a  few  old  family 
recipes  from  Glen  Ellen  and  also  from 
Waverly,  the  home  of  Governor  and  Mrs. 
George  Howard,  are  given. 

Mrs.  Levering  is  the  wife  of  Mr.  Leonidas 
Levering  and  the  daughter  of  the  late  Mr. 
Robert  Keys  and  Mrs.  Rebecca  Norris  Keys, 
who  as  Miss  Rebecca  Norris  of  Baltimore  was 
a  great  belle  of  her  day,  and  was  a  woman  of 
rare  loveliness  and  charm.  Blenden,  the 
handsome  country  home  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Leonidas  Levering,   was  named   for   Blenden 

55 


56  Glen  Ellen 

Hall,  the  magnificent  ancestral  estate  of  Mrs. 
Levering's  family  in  England. 

SOFT    GINGER    BREAD 

{Glen  Ellen) 

Two  pounds  flour,  i  pound  butter,  i  pound 
brown  sugar,  i  pint  molasses,  6  eggs.  Cream, 
butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  flour  and 
molasses  alternately;  half  of  the  flour  retained 
and  beaten  in  alternately  with  the  eggs. 
Grated  lemon  peel,  allspice,  cinnamon  and 
ginger;  2  teaspoonfuls  o'f  soda  in  molasses. 
Mrs.  Robert  Gilmor, 
Glen  Ellen. 

blackberry  pudding    (excellent) 

(Glen  Ellen) 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  -J  pint  of  milk, 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  £  pound  of  butter,  f  pound 
brown  sugar,  nutmeg  to  taste,  wine  if  you 
choose.  Mix  as  a  batter;  add  1  pint  of  black- 
berries mixed  in  gradually.  Bake  in  a  greased 
dish  faster  than  cake.  Serve  with  "  Nuns' 
Butter  Sauce."  Mrs.  Robert  Gilmor. 


Glen  Ellen  57 

BREAKFAST    BREAD 

{Glen  Ellen) 

Two  eggs,  i  pound  flour,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  I  cake  of  yeast.  Mix  with  milk  as  stiff 
as  you  can  stir.  Beat  light  and  put  in  a  cov- 
ered pan  until  next  morning,  then  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.  Mrs.  Robert  Gilmor. 

brown   SOUP 

A  knuckle  of  veal,  3  quarts  of  water.  Let 
it  simmer  down  for  about  4  hours  before 
seasoning,  then  put  in  thyme,  parsley,  a  little 
mace,  allspice,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  simmer 
2  hours  more  and  thicken  with  browned  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  stir  in  after  removing  soup 
from  the  fire. 

Mrs.  William  Gilmor. 


WAVERLY 

Waverly,  the  beautiful  estate  of  Governor 
and  Mrs.  George  Howard,  was  a  wedding 
gift  to  Governor  Howard  from  his  distin- 
guished father,  General  John  Eager  Howard 
of  Revolutionary  fame. 

It  was  at  this  beautiful  place  that  the  young 
couple  began  their  married  life,  which  proved 
to  be  a  very  happy  one.  Governor  George 
Howard  was  not  only  a  Governor  of  Mary- 
land, but  he  was  born  the  son  of  a  Governor 
of  Maryland,  his  father  having  been  elected 
Governor  the  year  before  he  was  born.  His 
mother  was  Margaret  Chew  Howard,  and  he 
spent  his  early  life  at  Belvedere,  the  beautiful 
estate  of  his  parents  in  Baltimore  County. 

Governor  George  Howard  was  a  devoted 
father,  and  very  fond  of  home  life.  The 
household  at  Waverly  was  a  very  large  one, 
for  Mrs.  Howard  was  the  mother  of  thirteen 
children. 

58 


Waverly  59 

JUMBLES 

( Waverly ) 

One  pound  flour,  ^  pound  butter,  f  pound 
brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  \  nutmeg   (grated),  2 
tablespoonfuls    rose    water.       Roll    out    long 
with  hands  and  join  in  rings  (very  good). 
Mrs.  George  Howard, 

Waverly. 

RICE    FLOUR    PUDDING 

{Waverly) 

•  One  quart  milk,  |  pound  butter,  4  eggs,  5 
tablespoonfuls  rice  flour,  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  rind  of  1  lemon  (grated).  Beat  yolks 
light,  add  sugar  and  lemon  peel.  Boil  the 
milk,  mix  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  and 
pour  boiling  milk  on  it.  Beat  in  eggs  and 
sugar,  and  put  back  on  fire  until  it  thickens 
a  little.  Stir  in  the  butter.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered dish,  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  bake 
quickly. 

Mrs.  George  Howard. 


BELMONT 

Belmont,  the  homestead  of  the  Hanson  fam- 
ily, is  one  of  the  old  manor  houses  in  Mary- 
land. It  was  built  in  1738  by  Caleb  Dorsey, 
the  grant  of  the  estate  having  been  given  him 
by  King  George  II;  and  as  it  has  descended 
by  inheritance,  no  deed  of  it  has  ever  been 
recorded  to  the  present  day.  The  old  house 
is  built  of  English  brick  (which  meant  nobil- 
ity in  those  days)  and  yellow  stucco.  It  has 
a  wide  entrance  hall  running  through  the  cen- 
ter, with  great  wings  upon  either  side,  one  of 
which  is  known  as  the  ballroom  wing.  In  a 
stone  tablet  over  the  main  doorway  are  cut 
the  initials  of  the  owner  and  his  bride,  "  C.  and 
P.  D."   (Caleb  and  Priscilla  Dorsey). 

Both  front  and  back  of  the  old  mansion  the 
spacious  grounds  are  terraced,  and  there  is  a 
charming  old-fashioned  garden,  bordered  with 
boxwood.  This  boxwood  hedge  is  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  in  Maryland. 

Edward  Dorsey,  the  son  of  Caleb  and  Pris- 
60 


Belmont  61 

cilia  Dorsey,  inherited  Belmont,  and  from  him 
it  was  inherited  by  his  daughter  Priscilla,  who 
married  Alexander  Contee  Hanson.  Their 
marriage  was  a  very  romantic  one,  as  they 
eloped  in  a  post-chaise  from  Baltimore. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Miss  Nannie  Han- 
son, who,  with  her  brothers  and  sisters,  still 
lives  at  Belmont,  the  following  old  recipes  of 
the  Hanson  family  are  given : 

FOR     CURING     HAMS 

{Belmont) 

For  every  10  hams  of  moderate  size,  take 
3!  pounds  of  fine  salt,  1  pound  of  saltpetre,  and 
2  pounds  of  brown  sugar.  After  mixing  these 
thoroughly,  rub  the  hams  therewith  on  either 
side.  Pack  them  in  a  hogshead,  covered  tight, 
and  allow  them  to  remain  about  three  weeks. 
Then  take  out  and  put  them  in  a  pickling  tub 
or  hogshead  and  cover  with  brine  strong 
enough  to  swim  an  Qgg.  After  remaining  in 
pickle  three  weeks  take  out  and  thoroughly 
rub  with  fresh  salt,  and  hang  up  in  a  well- 
ventilated  meat-house  for  a  few  days  to  dry. 
After  which  smoke  them  well  with  preen  hick- 


62  Belmont 

ory  wood  until  they  have  acquired  the  color 
of  bright  mahogany.  Put  them  in  white- 
zvashed  bags,  pack  away  in  a  hogshead  with 
wood  ashes  until  wanted.  These  hams,  when 
two  years  old,  should  be  soaked  twenty-four 
hours  in  cold  water  and  then  boiled  slowly 
for  five  hours.  This  is  an  old  and  famous 
recipe  that  has  been  used  at  Belmont  for  gen- 
erations. 

Miss  Nannie  Hanson, 

Belmont. 

LETTUCE     DRESSING 

{Belmont) 

One  cup  of  thick  or  sour  cream,  yolk  of 
one  hard-boiled  egg,  dessert  spoonful  of  vine- 
gar, pinch  of  salt,  and  a  salt  spoonful  of  mus- 
tard. Mash  the  egg  well,  add  the  vinegar, 
mustard,  and  salt,  then  the  cream;  stir  well. 
This  makes  a  delicious  summer  dressing,  and 
takes  the  place  of  olive  oil,  which  sometimes 
has  a  "  taste  "  in  hot  weather. 


WINSTON 

"  Hi,  Bettie  Martin !    tiptoe  fine, 
Couldn't  get  a  husband  to  suit  her  mind." 

What  Marylander  to  the  manner  born  has 
not  hummed  this  couplet,  and  what  Mary- 
lander  has  not  heard  the  story  of  this  famous 
Colonial  beauty  and  belle  of  old  Maryland! 
The  story  runs  that  her  lovers  were  so  nu- 
merous that  it  was  impossible  for  her  to  decide 
between  them,  and  at  last  her  choice  lay  be- 
tween two  friends — Dallam  and  Winston. 
Dallam  won  her  heart,  and  after  several  years 
of  happy  married  life  he  died,  after  which 
Winston  gained  his  heart's  desire  by  marry- 
ing- the  widow.  Three  sons  and  a  daughter 
blessed  each  marriage.  The  daughter  of 
Dallam  was  the  mother  of  Richard  Caswell, 
who  was  the  Governor  of  South  Carolina  and 
a  member  of  Congress.  The  daughter  of 
Winston  was  the  mother  of  William  Paca, 
who  was  the  Governor  of  Maryland,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Continental  Congress,  and  a  signer 
of  the  Declaration  of  Independence. 
63 


64  Winston 

On  each  trip  to  and  from  Congress,  we  are 
told  that  both  grandsons  visited  the  beautiful 
Bettie, — the  Lady  of  the  Manor, — who.  lived, 
it  is  said,  to  the  great  age  of  120  years.  And 
it  is  a  tradition  in  the  family  that  on  the  day 
before  she  died  she  was  entertaining  a  num- 
ber of  distinguished  guests;  and  as  the  dear 
old  lady  arose  from  the  table  she  waved  her 
hand  with  that  inimitable  grace  which  charac- 
terized her  and  said,  "  Now,  Betsy's  Betsy  will 
take  you  to  see  Betsy's  Betsy's  Betsy's  Betsy's 
Betsy."  And  she  led  them  into  a  room  to  see 
the  little  Betsy,  her  great-granddaughter, 
that  was  Heaven-given  a  few  weeks  before. 
Through  the  kindness  of  the  great-great-great- 
granddaughter  of  this  remarkable  Betsy  the 
following  old  Colonial  recipes  are  given: 

BLACK    FRUIT    CAKE 

(  Winston) 

One  pound  of  butter,  1^  pounds  sugar,  1 
pound  and  2  ounces  flour,  1  dozen  eggs,  1  nut- 
meg, 4^  pounds  raisins  (seeded  and  cut  fine), 
4^  pounds  currants,  1  pound  citron  (cut  fine), 
1  cup  molasses  with  a  little  soda  in  it,  \  cup 


Winston  65 

brandy.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light, 
add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  then  molasses  and 
brandy.  Stir  in  well  and  add  the  flour  and 
fruit.  Line  the  pan  with  4  or  5  thicknesses  of 
light  brown  paper.  Bake  carefully  and  slowly 
for  4  hours. 

It  is  said  that  a  potato  pudding  is  dear  to 
the  heart  of  every  Marylander  to  the  manner 
born,  and  here  is  a  most  excellent  old  recipe 
for  one.  Who  knows  but  that  Bettie  Martin 
might  have  enjoyed  this  very  pudding  in  the 
long  ago! 


AN    IRISH    POTATO    PUDDING 

( Winston) 

To  two  pounds  of  potatoes  after  they  are 
boiled  and  mashed  add  one  pound  of  butter 
while  the  potatoes  are  hot.  Take  1  pound  of 
white  sugar  and  beat  into  it  8  eggs.  When 
the  potatoes  are  cool  add  the  sugar  and  eggs; 
then  add  \  pint  of  sweet  cream.  Flavor  with 
\  tumbler  of  brandy  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Bake  in  an  under  crust. 


66  Winston 

CHARLOTTE    RUSSE 

( Winston) 

One  pint  rich  cream  sweetened  and  flavored 
to  taste,  -|  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  the 
cream,  whites  of  7  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  added 
after  the  mixture  has  begun  to  congeal.  Put 
in  a  mold  lined  with  cake  and  set  in  a  cold 
place.  This  recipe  was  brought  to  Winston 
from  Charleston,  South  Carolina. 


KINGSTON   HALL 

By  the  waters  of  the  Chesapeake  in  old 
Somerset  is  Kingston  Hall,  the  ancestral  home 
of  Governor  Thomas  King  Carroll,  the  first 
Governor  Carroll  of  Maryland.  It  was  built 
early  in  the  sixteenth  century  by  Robert 
King,  the  father  of  Thomas  King,  who  was 
the  father  of  Elizabeth  King  who  married  Col. 
Henry  Carroll  of  St.  Mary's  County.  Their 
son,  Thomas  King  Carroll,  who  became  Gov- 
ernor of  Maryland  in  1829,  married  Julia 
Stevenson,  the  only  daughter  of  Dr.  Henry 
Stevenson,  who,  with  his  brother,  was  grad- 
uated at  the  University  of  Oxford,  England, 
and  came  to  Baltimore  with  large  wealth. 
(There  were  then  but  ten  houses  in  Balti- 
more.) He  built  a  palatial  residence  there 
called  "  Parnassus,"  and  gave  largely  to  the 
upbuilding  of  the  city.  His  son,  Cosmo  Stev- 
enson, became  an  eminent  doctor,  and  several 
noted  men  owe  their  education  to  him. 

Governor  Thomas  King  Carroll  became  a 
67 


68  Kingston  Hall 

law  partner  of  Robert  Goodloe  Harper,  but 
this  lasted  only  for  a  short  time,  as  the  father 
of  Governor  Carroll  died  leaving  his  large  es- 
tate, with  150  slaves,  in  care  of  his  mother. 
So  he  had  to  abandon  the  practice  of  law  and 
return  to  Kingston  Hall,  where  all  his  chil- 
dren were  born.  The  old  manor  house  at 
Kingston  Hall  was  very  large  and  handsome, 
and  its  beautiful  terraced  gardens  sloped  down 
to  the  water's  edge.  Governor  Carroll  remem- 
bered when  the  water  came  up  to  the  gran- 
aries, and  the  boats  were  loaded  with  grain  to 
be  carried  to  Baltimore.  But  the  waters  have 
now  greatly  receded. 

Gov.  Thomas  King  Carroll  was  a  deep 
thinker  and  a  wise  counselor,  and  his  law 
partner,  General  Robert  Goodloe  Harper, 
ranked  as  a  lawyer  with  Taney,  Wirt,  Winder, 
Pinckney,  and  other  noted  lawyers.  He  was 
a  native  of  South  Carolina,  but  came  to  Mary- 
land, from  whence  he  was  elected  to  the  United 
States  Senate.  In  1802  General  Harper  mar- 
ried Catherine,  the  second  daughter  of  Charles 
Carroll  of  Carrollton,  who  was  one  of  the  most 
distinguished  gentlemen  Maryland  has  ever 
produced.     He  was  the  last  surviving  signer 


Kingston  Hall  69 

of  the  Declaration  of  Independence.  His  re- 
mains rest  under  the  altar  in  the  chapel  at 
Doughoregan  Manor,  where  he  lived  in  lordly 
style.  This  is  considered  one  of  the  very  fin- 
est estates  in  old  Maryland.  It  is  now  the 
home  of  ex-Governor  John  Lee  Carroll,  who 
was  the  second  Governor  Carroll  of  Mary- 
land, and  who  is  the  great-grandson  of  Charles 
Carroll  of  Carrollton. 

Kingston  Hall  has  always  had  the  reputa- 
tion of  having  the  best  table  and  cooking  on 
the  eastern  shore  of  Maryland.  Through  the 
courtesy  of  Mrs.  Ada  Carroll  Bowdle,  wife  of 
Dr.  Bowdle  of  the  United  States  Navy,  and 
daughter  of  Governor  Thomas  King  Carroll, 
these  old  recipes  from  Kingston  Hall  are 
given : 

VEGETABLE    SOUP 

{Kingston  Hall) 

To  make  a  dinner  pot  of  vegetable  soup  for 
a  family  of  seven  or  eight,  put  on  in  cold  water 
i\  pounds  beef  and  boil  till  tender.  Then  add 
the  following,  finely  cut  up:  5  good-sized  po- 
tatoes, 4  carrots,  \  dozen  medium-sized  tur- 
nips, I  of  a  small  head  of  cabbage,   1  can  of 


JO  Kingston  Hall 

tomatoes,  or  the  like  quantity  of  fresh  ones. 
Let  all  these  boil  and  put  more  water  in  when 
needed.  One  hour  before  dinner  cut  up  2 
onions  and  a  bunch  of  green  celery  tops  and 
put  them  in  with  the  other  vegetables.  (If 
celery  is  boiled  too  long  it  loses  its  flavor.) 
Before  taking  up  for  dinner  the  beef  should 
be  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and  returned  to  the 
pot.  This  is  a  delicious  soup  of  old  Mary- 
land. 

CHICKEN    SOUP 

{Kingston  Hall) 

Put  the  chicken  on  in  cold  water  and  let  it 
boil  till  tender.  Take  it  out  about  an  hour 
before  dinner  and  cut  it  in  pieces  and  return 
it  to  the  pot.  Add  about  1  pint  of  milk,  a 
large  piece  of  butter,  red  pepper,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Also  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  made 
to  a  thickening,  then  make  small  balls  out  of 
fine  pastry  and  drop  them  into  the  soup  twenty 
minutes  before  serving.  Do  not  remove  the 
lid  from  the  pot  until  ready  to  serve,  as  doing 
so  would  make  them  heavy;  and  do  not  let 
them  stand,  but  serve  at  once.     This  is  a  very 


Kingston  Hall  Ji 

fine  old  Maryland  soup,  and  very  much  out 
of  the  ordinary. 

PICKLED  BOILED  FISH 

(Kingston  Hall) 

When  a  large  rockfish  has  been  boiled,  a 
very  delightful  dish  can  be  made  out  of  what 
has  been  left  over  by  taking  4  hard-boiled 
eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  taste.  Put  a  little  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  it  gets  hot,  put  in  the 
mixture  and  turn  it  over  several  times,  until 
it  is  hot  throughout,  then  serve.  This  makes 
a  delightful  entree. 

DEVILED    TURKEY. 

(Kingston  Hall) 

Take  the  first  joints  of  the  turkey  and 
the  back  (which  are  not  used  generally  the 
first  day),  and  also  the  gizzard.  Make  in- 
cisions in  each  piece  and  fill  them  with  butter, 
red  and  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Broil 
them  and  serve  with  browned  gravy  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  mustard 
poured  over  it  in  a  flat  dish. 


72  Kingston  Hall 

BOILED    TURKEY 

(Kingston  Hall) 

Take  a  hen  turkey,  preparing  it  in  the 
usual  way,  and  fill  it  with  the  following  dress- 
ing: Two  eggs  beaten  with  chopped  beef 
suet,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  pudding, 
seasoned  with  black  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
butter.  Fill  the  turkey  with  this,  sew  up  well, 
and  put  it  in  a  pot  of  water  and  boil  until 
tender.  Make  a  gravy  of  drawn  butter  (flour 
mashed  in  butter  and  cold  water  and  boiled  in 
a  vessel).  Pour  some  of  it  over  the  turkey, 
after  which  cut  up  3  or  4  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Put  them  over  the  turkey  on  top  of  the  thick 
gravy,  then  thin  the  remainder  of  the  gravy 
with  water  from  the  pot  in  which  the  turkey 
has  been  boiled,  and  serve  it  with  the  turkey. 
Garnish  the  dish  containing  the  turkey  with 
carrots  cut  in  rings.  The  turkey  hen  should  be 
boiled  in  spring,  and  gobblers  roasted  in 
winter. 

Mrs.  Ada  Carroll  Bowdle, 

Kingston  Hall. 


CASTLE   HOWE 

Through  the  kindness  of  Isabel  S.  Mason, 
wife  of  Dr.  Charles  T.  Mason,  these  old  recipes 
are  given : 

Mrs.  Isabel  S.  Mason  is  a  lineal  descendant, 
through  her  grandmother, — who  was  a  Ran- 
dolph,— of  King  Robert  Bruce  of  Scotland, 
King  Robert's  daughter  Isabel  having  married 
Thomas  Fitz  Randolph,  Earl  of  Moray.  Isa- 
bel S.  Mason,  as  she  is  known  in  literature,  is 
a  writer  of  exquisite  verse. 

Dr.  Charles  T.  Mason  is  the  great-grand- 
son of  Rev.  Jeremiah  Mason,  who  resided  on 
the  beautiful  and  picturesque  Castle  Howe  es- 
tate on  Licking  Creek,  Washington  County, 
one  of  the  early  Mason  establishments  in 
Maryland. 

GENUINE  OLD  ENGLISH    PLUM   PUDDING 

{Randolph  Family) 
Two  pounds  stoned  raisins,  2  pounds  stoned 

73 


\ 


74  Castle  Howe 

prunes.  Put  in  a  dish  and  pour  over  them  3 
wineglasses  of  brandy  and  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice,  and 
\  tablespoonful  of  mace,  and  one  nutmeg.  Let 
this  mixture  stand  from  36  to  48  hours,  and 
occasionally  stir  it  well.  Sprinkle  a  hand- 
ful of  flour  over  2  pounds  of  beef  suet,  and 
chop  very  fine,  removing  all  strings.  Mince 
one  ounce  of  candied  or  preserved  orange  peel 
and  one  lemon  peel  and  1  pound  of  preserved 
citron.  Mix  with  the  suet.  Beat  8  eggs  very 
thick  and  smooth  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
add  \  pound  sugar  and  1^  pounds  of  flour, 
then  the  fruit  and  the  brandy.  If  too  thick, 
mix  in  a  little  cream  or  milk.  Boil  or  steam 
7  hours.  This  makes  a  large  quantity,  but  it 
will  keep  all  winter  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and 
it  is  better  after  it  has  been  made  some  time. 
One  quarter  of  this  recipe  will  make  a  pud- 
ding large  enough  for  six  or  seven  persons. 
This  is  a  genuine  old  English  plum  pudding, 
and  has  been  used  in  the  Randolph  family  for 
many  generations. 

RUM    SAUCE    FOR    THE    PUDDING 

Six  eggs,   yolks  and  whites,   beaten  separ- 


Castle  Howe  75 

ately,   then   beaten   together,    with   sugar   and 
rum  to  flavor. 


FOAM    SAUCE    FOR    THE    PUDDING 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  -|  cup  butter,  1  wine- 
glassful  either  sherry  or  brandy,  and  a  little 
nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Isabel  S.  Mason. 


Heigh-ho  !    sing  heigh-ho  !    unto  the  green  holly : 
Most  friendship  is  feigning,  most  loving  mere  folly: 

Then,  heigh-ho !    the  holly ! 

This  life  is  most  jolly!" 

— Shakespeare. 


WHITE    CAKE 

{Castle  Howe) 

Whites  of  18  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1  pound 
flour,  1  pound  sugar,  f  pound  butter,  1  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  and  \  teaspoonful  cream  of  tar- 
tar, 1  cup  sour  cream.  Mix  the  cream  of  tar- 
tar with  the  flour  dry.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

CHARLOTTE    POLONAISE    CAKE 

(Mason  Family) 
Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  4 


j6  Castle  Howe 

eggs>   whites  and  yolks  beaten   separately;   I 
small  cup  of  cream,  3  cups  prepared  flour. 

FILLING 

Six  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  3  cups 
cream,  scalding  hot;  6  tablespoonfuls  grated 
chocolate,  6  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  -| 
pound  sweet  almonds  blanched  and  chopped,  \ 
pound  chopped  citron,  \  pound  macaroons,  \ 
pound  crystallized  peaches,  cherries,  or  what- 
ever preferred.  Beat  the  yolks  very  light. 
Stir  into  the  cream  the  flour  wet  with  a  little 
cold  milk;  then  add  very  slowly  the  beaten 
yolks.  Boil  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  for 
five  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  divide 
the  custard  into  three  parts.  Put  the  grated 
chocolate  with  the  macaroons,  finely  crum- 
bled, with  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  into  one 
part  of  the  custard,  stirring  well,  then  boil  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  beat  with  egg  beater  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Now  pound  the  blanched  almonds  a  few 
at  a  time  in  a  wooden  mortar,  adding  now 
and  then  a  few  drops  of  rose  water.  Chop 
the  citron  fine,  mix  with  the  almonds,  adding 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.     Stir  this  into  the 


Castle  Howe  JJ 

second  part  of  the  custard.  Heat  to  a  boil  and 
set  away  to  cool.  Chop  the  crystallized  fruit 
fine  and  mix  with  the  third  part  of  the  cus- 
tard. Heat  to  a  boil  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Season  the  chocolate  with  vanilla,  the  almonds 
and  citron  with  bitter  almonds ;  the  fruit  needs 
no  flavoring. 

Bake  your  cake  in  four  layers.  Between  the 
first  and  second  put  the  chocolate,  between  the 
second  and  third  put  the  citron  and  almonds, 
and  in  the  last  layer  (the  top  layer)  put  the 
fruit.     Ice  with  a  lemon  icing. 

This  is  a  royal  old  cake  recipe,  and  has  been 
used  in  the  Mason  family  for  generations.  It 
is  as  delicious  as  it  sounds  troublesome. 

Mrs.  Isabel  S.  Mason. 


MINT 

Oh,  give  me  a  day  of  boyhood, 

Filled  with  ardent  glee; 
Of  careless  fun  by  the  mint-bound  run 

Where  sucker  and  chub  bites  free. 

There  is  never  a  breath  so  spicy, 

Nor  ever  so  rare  a  glint, 
As  the  golden  light  of  June  day  bright, 

And  the  redolence  of  mint. 

All   the  wealth   of  virgin   freshness 
Spread  out  for  my  unshod  feet, 

The  poignant  scent  with  music  blent, 
From  the  songs  of  thrushes  sweet. 

When  my  rod  was  Freedom's  scepter, 
And  my  battered  straw  her  crown; 

But,  ah,  to-day  I  slave  away 
In  the  blare  of  the  brazen  town. 

I  starve  for  the  cool,  wild  freshness, 

I  thirst  for  the  ripples'  glint; 
I  pine  for  a  day  to  fish  away 

From  a  bank  embound  with  mint. 

— Isabel  S.  Mason. 


78 


Mint  79 

MINT 

(Mentha  aquatica) 

What  old  Virginia  or  Maryland  manor  has 
not  a  mint  bed  in  some  cool,  damp,  shady  nook 
underneath  one  of  its  grand  old  trees?  And 
what  a  restful  spot  it  is !  Dr.  van  Dyke  says : 
"  It  is  the  bed  whereon  memory  loves  to  lie 
and  dream.  .  .  .  When  its  perfume  rises 
the  shrines  of  the  past  are  unveiled  and  remi- 
niscence begins." 

And  it  truly  is  an  echoing  symphony  from 
year  to  year  and  from  age  to  age!  When  we 
think  of  the  forms  that  have  bent  over  it  when 
it  was  all  sparkling  with  dew,  and  the  fair 
hands  that  have  gathered  it, — those  long, 
slender  hands  with  tapering  fingers  that  have 
long  since  crumbled  to  dust — what  memories 
throne:!  In  the  moonlight  of  memorv  we  can 
see  those  dear  faces  and  hear  those  sweet 
voices,  as,  "  Far,  far  away,  like  bells  at  even- 
ing tolling,"  they  come  and  go. 

Ah,  yes,  it  is  now  but  a  memory,  a  fra- 
grance! Like  the  perfume  of  some  rare  wild 
flower,  it  eludes  our  grasp,  but  returns  again 
and  again  to  charm  our  senses. 


80  Mint 

And  who  that  has  read  about  "  Polly  "  and 
"  the  Colonel"  and  "  Marse  Bob  "  and  "  Char- 
ity "  and  "  Drinkwater  Torm "  has  not 
thirsted,  yes,  thirsted,  for  one  of  those  mint 
juleps  made  by  "  Drinkwater's "  unsteady 
hands,  and  served  in  one  of  those  "  silver  cans 
with  frosted  sides."  But  here  is  a  recipe  for 
a  rare  old  mint  julep  of  old  Maryland,  which, 
no  doubt,  even  would  have  pleased  the  Col- 
onel and  perhaps  tempered  his  wrath. 

MINT  JULEP 

(Weldon) 

Gather  the  mint  when  the  dew  is  on  it, 
sprinkle  it  with  pulverized  sugar  and  a  few 
drops  of  brandy  and  water,  and  bruise  it  gently 
till  the  mint  oil  begins  to  come.  In  bruising 
the  mint  use  a  glass  mortar  and  a  wooden  pes- 
tle. A  pestle  made  of  beechwood  is  best  (but 
be  sure  to  use  a  wooden  pestle).  Put  the 
bruised  mint  in  a  glass  and  pour  over  it  a  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Let  this  set  for  15  minutes. 
Then  strain  the  mint  and  pour  the  juice  in  a 
silver  tankard  that  has  been  filled  with  crushed 
ice.     Let  this  set  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then 


Mint  8 1 

pour  into  it  your  French  brandy  that  has  been 
kept  at  a  temperature  of  about  40  degrees 
Fahr.,  and  garnish  the  silver  tankard  with 
sprigs  of  mint.  Do  not  use  a  straw  when 
drinking  it,  but  drink  from  the  tankard. 

Miss  Mary  Josephine  Bomberger. 

MINT    BRANDY 

{Hampton) 

Gather  the  mint  at  a  season  when  the  sun  is 
hot — say,  July;  use  only  the  tender  shoots. 
Strip  off  the  leaves  and  cover  them  with 
brandy  in  an  open  bowl  and  allow  it  to  remain 
in  the  sun  for  three  or  four  hours,  according 
to  the  strength  of  the  mint  flavor  desired. 
Strain  without  bruising,  and  then  sweeten  to 
taste  before  bottling.  (Dissolve  the  sugar  in 
just  enough  hot  water  to  melt  it.)  It  can  be 
strained  through  a  strainer  first,  and  then 
through  a  bit  of  cheesecloth,  to  insure  clear- 
ness. 

This  is  a  specific  for  some  forms  of  bowel 
trouble,  and  is  a  famous  old  recipe  at  Hamp- 
ton. 

Mrs.   John   Ridgely. 


82  Mint 

MINT   SAUCE   FOR   LAMB 

{Weldori) 

One-fourth  pint  vinegar,  4  tablespoonfuls 
chopped  mint,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Let  stand  for  an  hour  or  more  before  using. 

Mrs.     M.    BOMBERGER. 
MINT    JELLY    FOR    LAMB 

(Weld  on) 

Wash  a  generous  handful  of  mint  leaves 
and  put  to  steep  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water. 
After  the  infusion  has  stood  several  hours, 
strain  through  a  flannel  bag  and  add  an  equal 
amount  of  granulated  sugar.  Boil  without 
stirring,  to  a  thick  syrup.  It  is  better  to  fill 
your  pint  cup  several  times  with  leaves  and 
make  about  a  quart  of  the  essence  at  once,  as 
it  boils  down  greatly.  Make  a  clear  apple 
jelly  and  add  enough  of  the  mint  essence  to 
give  a  pale  green  color. 

Mrs.   Bomberger. 

"Y-  conserved  mint  leaves. 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  and  while 
hot  dip  the  mint  leaves  in  it.    Then  drain  them 


Mint  83 

carefully  one  at  a  time.    When  cold,  dust  well 
with  granulated  sugar. 

Mrs.  O.  H.  W.  Hunter. 

CREAM    MINTS 

{Weldon) 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  \  cup  of  mint  es- 
sence; boil  together  until  it  will  candy  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  into 
another  dish  and  stir  till  creamy.  Drop 
quickly  with  a  teaspoon  on  a  marble  slab.  To 
prepare  the  mint  essence  for  the  candy,  take 
a  generous  handful  of  mint,  bruise  it  gently 
till  the  mint  oil  comes,  then  pour  1  cup  of 
boiling  water  on  it  and  let  it  steep  for  15 
minutes,  then  strain  and  use  £  cup  of  mint 
essence  to  1  cup  of  sugar.  This  is  a  candy 
recipe  of  the  old  school. 

Mrs.  M.  Benton  Bomberger. 

Sing  me  a  song  of  perfumes, 

Where  winding  your  lyric  rhyme ; 
Are  sprigs  of  spicy  tansy, 

And    aromatic    thyme. 
The  breath   of   the  pure  and   open 

From  brooks  where  cedars  glint, 
And  best  of  all  where  ripples  call 

The  poignant  scent  of  mint. 

— Isabel  S.  Mason. 


WILLIAMS'   PORT 

Mr.  Otho  Holland  Williams  Hunter  kindly 
gives  a  very  rare  old  recipe  for  Catawba  wine, 
and  also  some  recipes  for  punch.  Mr.  Hunter 
is  the  great-great-nephew  of  General  Otho 
Holland  Williams,  a  distinguished  gentleman 
of  Colonial  days,  who  was  the  founder  of 
Williams'  Port,  and  a  gallant  officer  of  the 
Revolutionary  army.  A  magnificent  monu- 
ment was  erected  to  his  memory  in  1905,  by 
his  country  in  recognition  of  his  valuable  serv- 
ices rendered  to  it,  Congress  having  made  a 
handsome  appropriation  for  that  purpose. 

CATAWBA   WINE 

This   song   of   mine 

Is  a  Song  of  the  Vine, 
To  be  sung  by  the  glowing  embers 
j  Of  wayside  inns, 

When  the  rain  begins 
To  darken  the  drear  Novembers. 

While  pure  as  a  spring 

Is  the  wine  I  sing, 
And  to  praise  it,  one  needs  but  name  it ; 

For  Catawba  wine 

Has  need  of  no  sign, 
No  tavern-bush  to  proclaim  it. 

— Longfellow. 

84 


Williams'  Port  8$ 

CATAWBA    WINE 

{Mr.  O.  H.  W.  Hunter) 

Mash  the  grapes  in  a  large  bowl  and  let 
stand  for  3  or  4  days,  then  squeeze  juice  out 
of  grapes,  and  to  2  quarts  of  juice  add  2  quarts 
of  water  and  2  pounds  of  sugar.  Let  it  all 
thoroughly  ferment.  After  it  is  through  fer- 
menting, put  a  syphon  in  the  barrel  by  boring 
a  hole  through  the  cork  that  is  in  the  bung- 
hole  of  the  barrel.  Make  the  hole  just  large 
enough  to  get  the  syphon  through,  and  seal 
around  the  syphon  in  the  cork  with  hot  wax 
so  the  air  cannot  get  in  the  barrel.  Put  the 
end  of  the  syphon  just  inside  the  barrel  and 
put  the  other  end  of  the  syphon  in  a  vessel 
which  is  kept  constantly  filled  with  pure  water. 
Let  the  syphon  remain  in  the  barrel  for  3  or 
4  months,  then  bottle  and  seal  tight.  This 
wine  looks  like  champagne  and  tastes  like  it. 
But  to  obtain  this  result  you  must  follow  every 
minute  direction  in  this  recipe. 

"  And  lately,  by  the  Tavern   Door  agape. 
Came   shining  through   the   Dusk   an   Angel   Shape 
Bearing  a  Vessel  on  his  Shoulder;   and 
He  bid  me  taste  it ;  and  't  was — the  Grape !  " 

— Rubdiaydt,   of  Omar   Khayyam. 


86  Williams'  Port 

TEA    PUNCH 

Three  pints  of  whisky,  i  pint  of  rum,  I 
large  tea  cupful  of  green  tea,  2  dozen  lemons, 
4  pounds  sugar,  2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Pour  water  on  tea  and  let  it  steep  for  a  short 
time.  Squeeze  lemons  over  the  sugar.  Peel 
very  thinly  18  lemons  and  pour  the  boiling 
hot  tea  over  the  peels.  Let  it  stand  5  minutes, 
then  strain  and  pour  tea  over  sugar  and  lemon 
juice.  When  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved  add 
whisky  and  rum  and  strain  again.  When 
ready  to  use  add  oranges,  pineapples  (cut  in 
dice  shape),  Maraschino  cherries,  or  any  other 
fruit  you  may  like.  Some  persons  like  curo- 
coa  in  it  also.  Put  this  punch  mixture  in  the 
punch  bowl  with  a  large  lump  of  ice.  This 
quantity  will  serve  twenty-five  people. 

Mr.  O.  H.  W.  Hunter. 

A    CHAMPAGNE    PUNCH    FOR   LADIES 

One  quart  of  orange  ice  very  well  frozen 
and   1  bottle  of  California  champagne. 

Mr.  O.  H.  W.  Hunter. 


BOONESBOROUGH 

Through  the  kindness  of  Mr.  George  A. 
Davis  of  Boonesborough  a  splendid  old  recipe 
for  quince  brandy  is  given.  Mr.  Davis  is  the 
son  of  the  late  Captain  Elias  Davis  and  the 
great-great-grandson  of  William  Boone,  who 
came  from  England  and  settled  at  Reading, 
Pennsylvania.  From  here  he  emigrated  to 
Maryland  and  founded  the  little  village  of 
Boonesborough.  He  was  of  the  family  of 
Daniel  Boone,  the  Kentucky  pioneer,  who  came 
to  Maryland,  and,  finding  it  so  thickly  settled, 
and  being  full  of  adventure,  he  emigrated 
to  North  Carolina,  and  later  he  went  to  Ken- 
tucky. A  number  of  the  families  from  this 
section  of  Maryland  emigrated  to  Kentucky 
and  helped  to  open  up  the  wilds  of  that  grand 
old  Blue  Grass  State.  Among  these  pioneers 
were  the  Shelbys,  one  of  whom  became  a  gov- 
ernor of  that  State :  and  the  Hart  family,  into 
which  Henry  Clay  married. 

William    Boone    and    his    wife    Susannah 


88  Boonesborough 

Boone  are  buried  in  the  old  graveyard  in 
Boonesborough,  and  lying  near  them  in  the  old 
churchyard,  is  their  daughter,  upon  whose 
tomb  we  read  the  quaint  inscription: 

"  Charlotte  Boone 
Proprietress  of  Boone's  Borough." 

The  Boone  family  were  of  staunch  old 
Quaker  stock. 

AN    OLD    QUAKER   TOAST 

"  Here's  to  thee  and  thy  folks, 
May  they  love  me  and  my  folks 
As  much  as  me  and  my  folks 

Love  thee  and  thy  folks. 
For  there  never  were  folks 
Since   folks  were   folks 
That  loved  folks 
As  well  as  me  and  my  folks 

Love  thee  and  thy  folks." 

QUINCE    BRANDY 

Select  fine,  large  and  perfect  quinces.  To 
make  i^  gallons  of  the  brandy  take  2  quarts 
of  quince  juice,  4  quarts  of  Cognac  brandy,  2.\ 
pounds  of  white  sugar,  12  ounces  bitter  al- 
monds (bruised),  1  pound  of  coriander  seed, 
3  ounces  of  cloves.  Let  stand  for  at  least  48 
hours,  then  strain  and  bottle  up.     This  is  a 


Boonesborough  89 

very  delicious  drink.  You  can  let  this  mixture 
stand  for  longer  than  48  hours  before  strain- 
ing (if  you  have  sufficient  patience,  Mr.  Davis 
says) . 

Mr.  George  A.  Davis. 

TO    A    ROSE 

(Gathered  in  the  old  Rose  Garden  at 
"  Weldon,"    June    26,    1907.) 

Whether  it  be  the  damask  bloom 

From  the  heart  of  Syria  old ; 
Or  the   fern-leaf  thorn   in   Scotland   born, 

And  wreathed  with  clustered  gold. 
Whether  it  be  the  rose  that  blows 

In  a  palace  garden   fair ; 
Or  the  Cherokee  white  in  the  silken  night, 

Of  a   Seminole   maiden's   hair; 
It  matters  not  if  high  or  low, 

If  far  or  •  near  it  grows ; 
Wherever  it  be,  in  royalty 

It  shines  as  a  Rose,  a  Rose. 

Whether   it   be   the   crimson   bud. 

Where    Vishnu's    wife    found   birth : 
Or  the  moss-rose  sweet  that  kissed  the  feet 

Of  weary  Christ  on  earth. 
The  briar  ablush  the  woodside  way, 

The    rambler    roving    high ; 
Or  the   pale   Hermosa    soft   abloom 

'Neath    "  Weldon's  "    summer    sky— 
It  is  ever,  oh,  ever  the  same  sweet  flower 

The   past   and   present   knows ; 
Wherever   it  be,   it's   royalty 

Will    stamp   it  a   Rose,   a  Rose. 

— Isabel   S.    Mason. 


WELDON 

"  Green-walled  by  the  hills  of  Maryland," 
in  fact  at  the  very  foot  of  South  Mountain 
lies  Weldon,  whose  story  is  written  in  brick, 
for  the  quaint  old  house  is  built  of  brick  and 
the  walks  around  it  are  all  made  of  brick,  and 
so  ancient  are  they  that  the  roots  of  the  great 
old  trees  have  pushed  them  upward  in  many 
places.  Miss  Emily  Emerson  Lantz,  in  a 
recent  publication,  writes  of  it :  "  The  old 
Welsh  name  Weldon  was  given  to  the  Bom- 
berger  estate  by  Lord  Baltimore,  and  it  is  a 
beautiful  old  place  adorned  with  a  typical 
Southern  gallery.  The  trees  of  the  place  are, 
many  of  them,  more  than  a  century  old,  and 
covered  with  English  ivy.  It  has  a  picturesque 
garden  hedged  in  by  boxwood,  where  the 
quiet  is  broken  by  bird  songs  the  year  around. 
Even  the  click  of  the  latch  of  the  old  front 
gate  is  a  bird's  note.  All  the  surroundings 
are  so  quaint  and  old-fashioned  that  they  seem 
but  a  chapter  from  an  ancient  book — and  those 
90 


Weldon  91 

possessing  imagination  can  almost  hear  the 
crack  of  whip  and  call  of  postboy  and  almost 
see  the  long-ago  post-chaise  speeding  down 
the  road." 

Through  the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Bomberger 
of  Weldon,  wife  of  Mr.  M.  Benton  Bom- 
berger, a  number  of  old  recipes  are  given. 

"  Mr.  M.  Benton  Bomberger  is  the  great- 
grandson  of  Lawrence  Bomberger,  who  was 
one  of  the  landed  gentlemen  of  Maryland  be- 
fore the  Revolutionary  War,  Frederick  Cal- 
vert, sixth  and  last  Lord  Baltimore,  having 
granted  to  him  three  tracts  of  land,  named 
respectively  '  Wine  Hill,'  '  Virgin  Fair,'  and 
'  Blue  Rock,'  the  latter  having  been  granted 
July  1,  1758.  And  it  was  upon  this 
grant  of  land  that  the  first  monument  ever 
erected  to  George  Washington  was  built,  July 
4,  1827,  by  patriotic  citizens  of  Boonesbor- 
ough,  whose  memories  still  thrilled  with  the 
triumph  of  the  American  Revolution. 

"  In  addition  to  these  grants  made  by  Lord 
Baltimore,  Lawrence  Bomberger  was  the 
owner  of  other  large  estates,  and  he  also 
owned  two  wharves  in  the  city  of  Baltimore, 
which  were  eventually  sold  for  taxes,  as  his 


92  Weldon 

representative  possessing  the  power  of  at- 
torney   neglected  to  pay  them  in  due  time. 

"  Lawrence  Bomberger  descended  from  an 
old  and  distinguished  German  family  that  had 
furnished  a  long  line  of  statesmen  for  Prussia. 
He  was  a  devout  churchman,  and  he  died  full 
of  years  and  was  buried  on  his  old  estate 
where  he  had  lived  the  quiet  life  of  a  country 
gentleman." 

These  are  the  old  Weldon  recipes : 

"  Then  a  ham  brown   and  crisp,  and  bristling  all   over 
with  cloves." 

OLD     MARYLAND     BAKED     HAM 

{Weldon) 

Soak  a  ham  in  cold  water  for  2  clays  and  2 
nights,  changing  the  water  in  that  time  four 
times.  Wash  it  thoroughly  in  tepid  water. 
Place  it  skin  down  in  the  ham  boiler,  which 
must  be  full  of  cold  water:"  Do  not  boil  too 
fast,  and  as  the  water  boils  down  replenish 
with  hot  water.  When  the  ham  is  done  it 
will  turn  of  its  ozvn  accord  skin  up  in  the 
boiler.  While  the  ham  is  hot  remove  the 
skin  carefully,  then  place  the  ham  in  a  large 


Wei  don  93 

pan.  Stick  the  ham  full  of  cloves,  sprinkle 
with  black  pepper,  bread  crumbs,  and  brown 
sugar.  Pour  over  it  a  cup  of  sherry  wine  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  nicely  baked  and 
browned. 

OLD    COLONIAL    EASTER    HAM 

.    {Weldon) 

Prepare  and  boil  the  ham  just  the  same  as 
an  "  Old  Maryland  Baked  Ham."  After  the 
skin  is  removed  (after  the  ham  has  been 
boiled)  cut  a  generous  slice  out  of  the  center 
of  the  Ham  and  fill  it  in  with  old  Maryland 
Filling  (the  same  that  you  use  to  fill  fowls 
with),  then  stick  the  ham  full  of  cloves, 
sprinkle  with  black  pepper,  bread  crumbs,  and 
brown  sugar,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  bake 
a  nice  brown.  This  ham  was  used  for  dinner 
on  Easter  Sunday  in  Colonial  times. 

OLD    MARYLAND    FILLING 

(IV  eld  on) 

Cut  stale  bread  in  i  inch  squares  and  put  it 
into  a   skillet    in   butter  that   has   been   made 


94  Wei  don 

already  very  hot.  Stir  all  the  time  and  toast 
to  a  nice  light  brown.  Then  put  the  bread 
into  a  bowl  and  scald  with  boiling  water,  using 
as  much  water  as  the  bread  will  absorb  with- 
out making  the  bread  "  soft."  Then  add  2 
eggs,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  celery,  cut  up;  also  parsley 
and  a  dash  of  onion. 

MARYLAND    BISCUITS 

{Weld  on) 

Three  pounds  flour,  |  pound  lard,  1  small 
pinch  of  salt  (too  much  salt  will  make  the 
biscuits  heavy).  Beat  with  iron  (never  use 
wood).  When  worked  out  stick  each  biscuit 
on  the  top  and  bottom  with  a  fork.  Make  up 
dough  very  stiff  with  water. 

THIN    BISCUIT 

(Weldon) 

One  pint  flour,  1  egg,  1  spoonful  of  lard, 
a  little  salt  Make  up  with  sweet  milk  into  a 
moderately  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  quite  thin 
and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.     Then  take  each 


Weldon  95 

one  and  roll  out  as  thin  as  possible.  Stick  all 
over  with  a  fork  and  bake  a  light  brown. 
These  are  the  genuine  old  Southern  "  Thin 
Biscuits." 

BATTER    BREAD     ("BATTI    BRAID  ") 

(Weldon) 

One  pint  meal  (white),  I  pint  sweet  milk, 
i  pint  boiling  water  or  milk,  2  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  £  tablespoon ful  lard.  Take  one-half  the 
meal  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water,  then 
add  the  other  milk,  the  rest  of  the  meal,  and 
the  eggs  well  beaten.  Lastly  add  the  lard 
(melted).  Bake  in  a  deep  fireproof  dish,  that 
has  been  made  hot  and  well  greased. 

POTATO  ROLLS 

(Weldon) 

One  cup  yeast,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  mashed 
potatoes.  Set  these  to  rise.  When  light,  add 
2  eggs>  I  CUP  sugar,  -J  cup  lard,  some  salt. 
Make  up  stiff.  Let  stand  until  light.  Roll 
out  until  •£  inch  thick,  then  cut  with  round 
cutter.     Butter  and  lap  over.     Let  stand  until 


96  Wei  don 

very   light.      Bake   in   hot   oven    10   minutes. 
These  are  the  old  Maryland  potato  rolls. 

SALLY    LUNN 

(Weldon) 

One  egg",  1  small  cup  sugar,  creamed  well 
together.  Then  stir  well  with  a  lump  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  and  beat  all  together, 
then  add  1  cup  sweet  milk  and  stir  well,  then 
add  3^  cups  of  flour  that  has  been  sifted  3 
times  and  in  which  has  been  sifted  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder;  also  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  all  well  together.  Bake  in  a  loaf  cake. 
Try  it  with  a  broom  straw  to  see  when  done. 

TIPSY    PUDDING 

(Weldon) 

Take  stale  cake  (fruit  cake  or  any  other), 
cut  it  in  bits  and  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass 
dish.  (Cake  crumbs  can  also  be  utilized  in 
this  pudding.)  Pour  over  the  bits  of  cake  \ 
pint  wine,  then  make  boiled  custard  and  pour 
over  this,  then  whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  put  on  top  of  cus- 


Wei  don  97 

tard.     Set  it  in  the  oven  till  it  is  light  brown. 
Serve  cold. 

tomato  soup 

(Weldon) 

One  quart  tomatoes,  i  quart  water,  i  pint 
milk.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter;  I 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Put  the  water  and  toma- 
toes on  and  let  boil,  then  strain  through  a 
sieve,  then  add  the  soda,  milk,  pepper,  salt, 
and  butter.  Let  all  boil  together.  If  you 
prefer  it  thinner  than  this  makes  it,  add  water 
to  suit  taste. 

• 

ICE    CREAM    CAKE 

{Weldon) 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  I  scant  cup  of  butter  well 
creamed,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  1  cup  cornstarch  sifted  together  12 
times,  in  which  has  been  sifted  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat 
the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk, 
then  add  the  flour  and  cornstarch  and  baking 
powder  (sifted  12  times),  then  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the 


98  Wei  don 

flavoring.    Grease  the  pans  well  and  flour  them 
afterwards,  to  keep  from  sticking. 


ICING    FOR    CAKE 

Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  4 
cups  of  pulverized  sugar.  Pour  over  the  sugar 
1  small  cup  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil 
until  clear  and  will  candy  in  cold  water. 
Don't  let  it  get  too  stiff  or  it  will  not  make 
good  icing.  When  done  pour  over  the  frothed 
eggs  the  boiling  syrup  and  beat  until  light. 
Add  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  and  1  teaspoonful 
of  citric  acid.  Put  between  cakes  and  ice  the 
top  and  sides  with  it. 

OLD    MARYLAND    APPLE    TODDY 

(Weldon) 

About  Thanksgiving  Day  take  -J  dozen 
large,  smooth,  and  good  cooking  apples,  and 
roast  them  until  they  burst  open.  While  hot 
mash  them — skin,  seeds,  and  all — and  pour 
on  them  -|  gallon  of  good  apple  brandy.  Add 
sugar  and  seal  tight  in  a  stone  jar  until 
Christmas  Day.     Weaken  with  water  to  taste. 


Weldon  99 

If  the  apples  have  not  all  been  reduced  to 
pulp,  serve  what  is  left  of  them  with  the  toddy. 
As  old  Malachi  said,  "  Take  a  little  of  de 
apple.  Dat's  whar  de  real  spression  ob  de 
toddy  is." 

SAND    TARTS 

(Weldon) 

One  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  yolks  of 
5  eggs,  6  ounces  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  thick 
milk,  I  teaspoonful  soda.  Roll  thin,  cut  out. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  wash  the  tops 
of  them  with  it.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon, 
granulated  sugar,  and  chopped  almonds. 

WOODBERRY   CAKE 

(Weldon) 

(A  great  favorite  with  children) 
One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  pint 
flour,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  1  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder  mixed  in  the  flour; 
flavor  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cinna- 
mon.    Bake  in  a  large  flat  pan. 

uorc 


ioo  Wei  don 

CANTALOUPE    PICKLE 

{Weldon) 

Pare  the  cantaloupes,  cut  a  slit  in  the  sides 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Put  them  in  brine  that 
will  bear  an  egg.  Let  them  remain  2  weeks 
or  longer,  then  put  them  in  cold  water  for  2 
days,  changing-  the  water  2  or  3  times.  Then 
wrap  them  in  corn  blades  and  put  them  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  and  to  1  gallon  of  water 
take  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut. 
Pour  this  over  the  cantaloupes  and  let  them 
simmer  not  more  than  %  hour,  then  put  them 
in  cold  water  for  2  or  3  hours,  then  press  all 
the  water  from  the  fruit  with  a  linen  towel. 
Cut  up  some  of  the  soft  cantaloupes  and  put 
them  with  the  filling  which  is  made  by  adding 
mace,  ginger,  lemon  rinds,  and  cloves.  Boil  the 
rind  of  4  of  5  lemons  before  using  it.  When 
all  is  well  mixed,  fill  the  fruit.  Put  the  filled 
fruit  into  a  preserving  kettle  (after  the  canta- 
loupes have  been  tied  well  together  so  the 
filling  can  not  come  out),  and  boil  them  until 
tender  in  a  syrup  made  out  of  sugar  and  vine- 
gar,  1   pound  sugar  and  1  pint  vinegar  to  1 


Weldon  IOI 

pound  fruit.     If  any  of  the  seasoning  is  left 
put  it  in  the  syrup  and  boil  with  the  pickles. 

VEAL   TERRAPIN 

(Weldon) 

Boil  thoroughly  i\  pounds  veal.  When  cold 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  a  chafing  dish  a 
good-sized  piece  of  butter.  Rub  the  meat  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add, salt  and  pepper. 
3  or  4  cloves.  Let  boil  about  15  minutes. 
Add  wineglass  of  sherry  wine  and  hard  boiled 
eggs  cut  up. 

"  The  Colonel  stopped,  unlocked  a  closet  in 
the  sideboard,   and   produced   a   black    bottle 
labeled  in  ink,  '  Old  Cherry  Bounce,  1848.'  " 
— "  Colonel  Carter  of  Cartersville." 

CHERRY    BOUNCE 

{Weldon) 

Wash  the  cherries,  put  them  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Let 
them  come  to  a  boil,  then  strain  cherries 
through  a  colander,  then  strain  juice  through 


102  Weldon 

a  flannel  cloth  (white).  Let  it  cool.  Add 
half  a  gallon  or  more  of  French  brandy  to  i 
gallon  of  cherry  juice  and  2  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar  to  1  gallon  of  the  mixture.  Take  a  lit- 
tle of  the  bounce  and  boil  the  spices  in  it,  using 
cinnamon,  allspice,  and  a  very  few  cloves,  and 
add  this  to  the  whole.  The  spices  are  put  in 
a  little  bag  and  boiled  in  this  way.  Add  the 
sugar  while  the  juice  is  hot,  but  the  brandy  is 
not  added  until  it  is  cool.  Then  bottle  and  seal 
tight. 

BROWN    BETTY 

{Weldon) 

One-half  cup  of  milk  (scant),  2  large  cups 
of  brown  sugar.  Boil  5  minutes,  stirring 
briskly.  When  almost  done  stir  in  1  cup  of 
black  walnut  kernels  or  chopped  almonds.  Re- 
move from  the  fire  and  stir  until  the  mixture 
grains  or  looks  sugary.  Pour  in  a  well-but- 
tered pan  to  the  depth  of  1  inch.  As  the  candy 
cools  mark  off  in  squares  with  a  knife.  Wal- 
nuts are  better  in  it  than  almonds. 


fc5 


m 


£=J 


See  how     it     spar  -  kles,  This  drink   di  -  vine. 

"  GlROFLE-GlROFLA 


TOASTS 

l    drink  it  as  the  Fates  ordain  it. 

Come,  fill  it,  and  have  done  with  rhymes ; 
Fill  up  the  lonely  glass  and  drain  it 

In  memory  of  dear  old  times." 

— William  Makepeace  Thackeray. 


"  Fill  yo'  glasses,  gentlemen,  and  drink  to  the  health 
of  that  greatest  of  all  blessings — a  true  Southern 
lady !  " — Colonel  Carter,  of  Cartersville. 


TO    CELIA 

Drink  to  me  only  with  thine  eyes, 

And   I   will  pledge  with  mine ; 

Or  leave  a  kiss  but  in  the  cup, 

And   I'll  not  look  for  wine, 

The  thirst  that  from  the  soul  doth  rise 

Doth  ask  a  drink  divine ; 

But  might  I  of  Jove's  nectar  sup, 

I  would  not  change  for  thine." 

— Ben   Jonson. 
103 


104  Toasts 

"  Here's  to  the  maiden  of  bashful  fifteen ; 
Here's  to  the  widow  of  fifty; 
Here's  to  the  flaunting  extravagant  queen, 
And  here's  to  the  housewife  that's  thrifty. 
Let   the   toast   pass, 
Drink  to  the   lass, 
I'll  warrant  she'll  prove 
An  excuse  for  the  glass." 

— Richard   Brinsley   Sheridan. 


TO   WOMAN'S    LOVE 

"  To  woman's  love — to  man's  not  akin, 
For  her  heart  is  a  home,  while  his  heart  is  an  inn. 


I  have  met  many,  liked  a  few ; 
Loved  but  one — here's  to  you." 


Here's  to  those  who  love  us, 
Not  to  those  whom  we  love ; 
For  those  whom  we   love 
May  not  love  us." 


Here's   to   a  good  girl — 

Not  too  good,  for  the  good  die  young, 

And  we  don't  like  dead  ones !  " 


Here's  to  the  tongue  of  woman :    it  never  wears  out. 


"  Here's  to  our  wives,  who  fill  our  lives 
With  little  bees  and  honey; 
They  break  life's  shocks,  they  mend  our  socks, 
But  don't  they  spend  our  money !  " 


Toasts  105 

"  Here's  to  the  prettiest, 
Here's  to  the  wittiest, 
Here's  the  truest  of  all  who  are  true; 
Here's  to  the  neatest  one, 
Here's  to  the  sweetest  one, 
Here's  to  them  all  in  one— here's  to  you !  " 

Here's  to  our  wives  and  sweethearts ! 
May  our  sweethearts  become  our  wives, 
And  our  wives  ever  remain  our  sweethearts." 


KENTUCKY 

"  Here's  to  old  Kentucky — 
The  place  where  I  was  born — 
Where  the  corn  is  full  of  "  kernals 
And  the   "  Colonels "   full   of  corn." 


WOMEN 

"  Here's  to  the  women — God  bless  'em,  _       ^ 

You  can't  live  with  'em  and  you  can't  live  without  em. 

DAME   FORTUNE 

"Here's   to   Dame    Fortune:     May   you    never   meet 
her    daughter — Misfortune." 

TO    A    CHAPERON. 

"  Here's   to   the   chaperon, 
May  she  learn  from  Cupid 
Just   enough   blindness 
To    be    sweetly    stupid." 

— Oliver  Hereford. 


106  Toasts 

A    STIRRUP    CUP 

TO 

"  MERRYLEGS  " 

"  Here's    to    one,    though    ripe    in    years, 

Brought    many    pleasures,    never     tears. 

His  virtues  such  that  were  they   named, 

Men,    having    less,   might    feel  ashamed. 

Steady  —  tried  and  trustful,   true, 

Willing  —  honest  —  noble,  too. 

From    'ole     Kentucky's'    border     line 

Where  Girls  and  Horses  both  are  fine. 

Here's  to    him,    and  when    he   dies 

May      he,      like      Pegasus,      arise. 

May    clover    fields    above    be    no 

Whit    less    sweeter    than    below. 

May      he      stand 

Beyond     the     stars 

And    greet  us   from 

God's  meadow  bars. 

Here's    to     Merrylegs,    a    friend 

Whose  heart  is  faithful  to  the  end." 

— Isabel  S.  Mason. 


"  I   fill  this   cup   to   one  made   up 
Of   loveliness    alone, 
A  woman,  of  her  gentle  sex 
The   seeming  paragon — 

Her  health !    and  would  on  earth  there  stood 
Some  more  of  such  a  frame, 
That  life  might  be  all  poetry, 
And  weariness  a  name." 

— Edward  Coate   Pinkney. 


Toasts  107 

TO   OUR   MOTHERS 

We  have  toasted  our  sweethearts, 

Our  friends,  and  our  wives ; 
We  have  toasted  each  other, 

Wishing  all  merry  lives. 
Don't  frown  when  I  tell  you 

This  toast  beats  all  others, 
But  drink  one  more  toast,  boys — 

A  toast  to— Our  Mothers !  " 


UEC  I9  190f 


[1  No 


vv 


'     \A 


o5   •<:>  x°  9*  <A 


A- 


% 


K<  CP  ■*       Si  <-r  \V  '> 

'if-     ^ 

,v.  -  >  /*         « 


> 


■  o- 


/  %> 


\-'v^ 


^<< 


"oCN 


^* 


>5  •* 


» i  \ 


•    S^iEThTODO 


SS3HDN03  JO  AHVHHn 


