A 


IP 


WBk 


I 


BM 

Xm£B£h 

^mSlmS^ 

mlm® 

H      H 

■Hi 


ENS 


THE 

Common  Sense 


Cook  Book. 


A   Volume     of    Practical    Recipes,     Giving    those    Minute 
Directions,    without    which    Success    in    pre- 
paring   Dishes    is    for    Many 
Unattainable. 


By  Lillian  C.  Masterman. 

AUG    2  8  iS94 


i  

Presented  with  Compliments       \  Q 
of  7 

The  Weinhold  Drug  Co. 

Three  Stores : 

WEST    HOTEL,   HENNEPIN    AVE.,  COR    FIFTH    ST. 

NrCOLLET    AVE.,  AND    GRANT    ST. 

FOURTH    AVE.   S.   AND    FRANKLIN    AVE. 

Minneapolis. 


Minneapolis,  1894 : 

The  Swinburne  Printing  Company, 

Engravers  and  Printers, 


<*?* 


Kv 


Entered  According  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  Year  1894,  by 

LILLIAN  C.  MASTERMA.N, 

in  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington,  D.  C. 


INTRODUCTION- 

To  the  Ladies  of  Minneapolis,  Greeting : 

In  presenting  to  you  t(?e  Common  ^Dense  oook  Dook, 
we  feel  tf?at  we  are  offerina  sometj?ina  tbat  will  be  ap- 
preciated. \gj>[)\s  work  contains  one  thousand  recipes 
of  known  and  tried  merit.  It  (?as  been  compiled  in  a 
t^orouar;  and  systematic  manner  and  we  feel  sure  you 
will  find  in  it  a  areat  deal  of  new  and  valuable  informa- 
tion. We  l?ave  been  to  an  enormous  expense,  and  l?ave 
bad  a  vast  amount  of  work  to  do  in  aettina  tl?is  ready 
for   your   perusal. 

Kindly  remember  us  wf?en  concoctina  some  delicious 
disb  from  our  book  for  your  better  halves,  family  or 
friends,  and  if  you  or  tl?ey  are  not  already  our  custom- 
ers, we  should   be   pleased  to  \)ave  you  become  so. 

Y  our  friends, 

The  Weinhold  Drug  Co. 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


COTOSUET 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


BREAD. 


O  PART  of  home  cookery  requires  as  much  skill  as  bread  mak- 
ing. The  art  of  making  good  bread  can  only  be  attained  by 
patient  care  and  watchfulness.  It  is  not  necessarily  a  difficult 
task ;  yet  I  will  venture  to  say  that  there  are  a  large  proportion  of  young 
American  housekeepers  who  can  make  a  good  cake  and  prepare  a 
delicious  dessert,  that  cannot  make  a  good  loaf  of  bread. 

Bread  making  should  be  one  of  the  first  lessons  taught.  What  is 
more  conducive  to  conjugal  quarrels  than  heavy,  sour  bread?  No 
article  of  food  is  as  essential  as  good  bread.  With  good  bread  in  the 
house  no  one  need  ever  go  hungry.  No  meal,  no  matter  how  much  is 
prepared  for  it,  is  complete  without  it.  Good  wheat  flour  is  the  basis  of 
good  bread.  The  best  flour  is  not  of  a  pure  white  color,  but  has  a 
creamy,  yellowish  white  tinge.  Never  buy  flour  that  looks  blue  white. 
If  it  feels  clammy  or  forms  in  lumps  it  is  not  of  the  best.  Good  flour 
holds  together  in  a  mass  and  adheres  to  the  hand ;  and  when  squeezed 
retains  the  imprint  of  the  fingers,  and  even  the  lines  of  the  skin,  longer 
than  poor  flour  when  made  into  dough.  If  good  it  will  be  elastic  and 
take  up  a  large  quantity  of  water,  and  stay  in  shape  longer.  Poor 
flour  will  flatten  and  spread.  Never  use  flour  without  sifting.  Keep 
it  in  a  dry,  cool  place  and  not  a  great  quantity  of  any  kind  on  hand, 
as  it  is  very  apt  to  become  musty.  There  are  two  ways  of  making 
bread  by  fermentation,  and  bread  made  without  fermentation.  By 
fermentation  we  mean  the  setting  free  of  carbonic  gas,  which  spreads 
rapidly  through  the  whole  mass  of  dough,  and  causes  it  to  rise  by  the 
rapid  multiplication  of  new  air  cells  upon  those  already  formed. 
Yeast  causes  the  process  of  fermentation.  The  cells  in  the  yeast  plant 
are  very  small  and  when  the  temperature  is  such  as  to  cause  them  to 
grow  rapidly,  and  coming  in  contact  with  any  substance  like  dough, 
they  increase  so  rapidly  that  the  whole  mixture  is  filled  with  them. 
Sour  milk  and  soda  cause  the  same  process  to  take  place.  Baking 
powders  cause  the  dough  to  rise  quickly.  The  importance  of  having 
good  yeast  is  readily  seen .  What  is  yeast  ?  Yeast  is  a  plant  or  germ  of 
the  lowest  order  of  vegetable  growth.  It  contains  numberless  minute 
oval  cells ;  each  cell  contains  a  sap.  They  multiply  by  millions  very 
rapidly.     These  are  propagated  in  anything  where  they  find  congenial 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


tood.  Grape  juice  in  two  hours'  standing  in  a  warm  place  will  give  off 
a  froth  of  yeast  cells.  Bread  made  with  yeast  is  much  more  porous, 
lighter,  and  pleasanter  to  the  taste,  and  much  more  easily  digested. 
Good  bread  should  be  of  a  light  spongy  texture,  and  to  get  this  we  al- 
low the  bread,  under  the  influence  of  the  yeast,  to  expand  as  much  as 
possible  without  becoming  sour.  Unfermented  bread  is  made  without 
yeast.  The  principle  is  the  same,  being  the  liberation  of  gas.  The 
usual  method  is  by  some  gas  generating  compound,  as  the  union  of 
soda  and  sour  milk.  When  chemicals  used  are  in  such  a  proportion 
that  they  are  neutralized  and  leave  only  Eochelle  salt,  this  bread  is 
harmless  but  not  so  palatable  and  digestable  as  yeast  bread.  The  three 
essential  elements  of  good  bread  are  good  yeast,  the  best  flour  and  an 
even  temperature.  There  are  three  kinds  of  yeast,  any  of  them  are 
good ;  dry,  compressed  and  liquid.  Compressed  yeast  is  only  good 
when  it  can  be  obtained  fresh.  Potato  yeast  is  the  best,  as  bread  made 
from  it  does  not  dry  up  so  quickly  and  is  sweeter  and  more  nutritious. 
First  set  your  sponge.  This  is  made  from  warm  water  or  milk, 
yeast  and  flour.  If  you  do  not  use  potato  yeast,  use  the  water  in  which 
the  potatoes  were  cooked  at  dinner  time,  or  add  a  few  potatoes  mashed 
and  run  through  a  sieve.  In  winter  make  the  water  or  milk  quite 
warm.  In  summer  have  it  lukewarm.  Do  not  sponge  too  early  in 
the  evening,  as  the  sponge  is  apt  to  stand  too  long  before  it  is  mixed 
and  kneaded.  If  compressed  yeast  is  used  (this  is  one  of  the  most 
rapid  forms  of  fermentation),  sponge  before  breakfast.  Use  about 
one  cup  of  liquid  yeast  to  one  quart  of  wetting.  If  compressed  yeast 
is  used,  use  one-half  a  cake  to  the  same  quantity.  If  milk  is  used, 
scald  to  prevent  its  souring.  In  winter  warm  the  flour  and  all  dishes 
used.  Keep  the  temperature  even ;  about  75  degrees  should  be  kept 
up  during  the  entire  process.  Mix  as  soon  as  the  sponge  has  risen  to 
the  proper  point.  You  can  tell  this  by  its  light,  puffy  appearance,  the 
middle  standing  higher  than  the  sides.  If  it  looks  fallen  in  the  middle, 
it  has  stood  too  long.  Knead  well,  and  thoroughly  for  at  least  twenty 
minutes.  This  is  very  important.  Knead  until  the  mass  of  dough  feels 
light,  spongy  and  elastic  under  the  hand.  To  knead  the  bread  well 
requires  strength  and  patience.  A  little  sugar  is  necessary  to  bread, 
and  if  the  bread  is  made  of  water,  a  little  shortening  of  some  kind. 
A  word  about  the  baking.  This  is  one  of  the  important  parts  of  the 
whole  process.  The  excellence  of  the  bread  is  greatly  dependent 
upon  the  perfection  of  the  cells  produced  by  the  action  of  heat  upon 
carbonic  acid  gas.  The  oven  should  be  hot  when  the  bread  is  put  in. 
The  heat  should  be  of  sufficient  strength  to  last  through  the  time  of 
baking  (which    is  always  about  one   hour   for  an  ordinary  loaf  of 

b 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


bread),  without  replenishing.  It  should  increase  at  first,  then 
diminish  slowly  toward  the  last.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  a  hard  brown 
crust  will  form  and  make  the  inside  heavy.  Do  not  remove  before  it 
is  done  or  the  mass  will  be  heavy  and  raw  inside.  The  dough  should 
rise  after  fifteen  minutes  and  brown  slightly.  Remove  the  loaves 
from  the  pans  at  once,  as  soon  as  the  time  is  up,  and  place  them 
where  the  air  can  circulate  around  freely.  Turn  the  loaves  out  on  a 
clean  tea  towel.  Do  not  put  away  until  cold,  and  then  in  a  stone  jar 
or  a  tin  box.  Keep  the  jar  well  covered  to  prevent  the  bread  from 
drying. 

Potato  Yeast 

Have  three  quarts  of  water  boiling  rapidly.  Pare  three  raw 
potatoes,  and  let  them  soak  awhile  in  cold  water.  Mix  one- fourth  of  a 
cup  of  flour  with  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of 
salt.  Grate  the  potatoes,  and  add  them  to  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt. 
Pour  the  boiling  water  on  them.  Pour  part  of  it  on  the  grater. 
Add  water  enough  to  make  the  yeast  the  consistency  of  thin  starch. 
If  this  does  not  thicken  cook  awhile.  Strain  and  cool.  When  luke- 
warm add  one  cup  of  yeast.  Put  in  a  warm  place  until  the  top  is 
covered  with  bubbles.  Beat  it  well.  Cover  tighly,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place.  Add  a  little  ginger ;  it  improves  it,  and  helps  to  keep  the 
yeast. 

Bread  Sponge. 

Take  three  potatoes,  boiled,  and  mashed  while  hot,  and  dissolved 
in  one  quart  of  warm  water,  or  one  quart  of  potato  water.  Into  this 
stir  three  cups  of  flour,  and  six  tablespoons  of  good  yeast.  Beat  to  a 
smooth  batter.  Set  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  a  tablespoon  of 
white  sugar,  a  large  tablespoon  of  white  lard  or  butter.  Knead  well 
for  twenty  minutes,  and  set  to  rise.  Knead  down  once  more,  and 
when  light  mold  into  loaves,  and  let  it  rise  again  very  light.  In  place 
of  liquid  yeast  use  one-half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  or  dry  yeast. 

Hop  Yeast. 

Steep  half  |a  cup  of  loose  hops  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water  five 
minutes.  Mix  one  cup  of  flour,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  one 
tablespoon  of  salt.  Strain  the  hops  and  pour  the  liquor  boiling  on  the 
flour.  Boil  a  minute.  Add  a  cup  of  yeast  when  cool,  and  put  in  a 
warm  place  to  ferment.  c 

May— Where  shall  I  hang  the  mistletoe  hough  this  year? 
Jack— On  your  nose  would  about  catch  me.— Truth. 

Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 


8  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Milk  Bread. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk,  scalded  and  cooled.  Put  in  a  bowl,  and 
add  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  on  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  "When  lukewarm  add  one-half  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast  or  a  small 
half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  and  six  cups  of  flour.  Let  it  rise. 
When  light  knead  until  very  smooth  and  elastic.  Let  it  rise  again,  and 
when  light  mold  into  loaves.  When  light  bake  in  a  steady  oven  an 
hour.     The  time  of  course  depends  on  the  size  of  the  loaves. 

Rye  Bread. 

Pour  one  pint  of  scalded  milk  on  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter 
and  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonfulof  salt ;  when  lukewarm  add  half  a  cup 
of  yeast.  Stir  in  three  cups  of  rye  flour  or  rye  meal.  Beat  well,  let  it 
rise  over  night ;  in  the  morning  add  two  cups  of  flour,  and  knead  half  a 
hour.  Let  it  rise  again,  and  mold  into  loaves  and  put  to  rise  again ; 
let  it  rise  the  last  time  very  light. 

Raised  Brown  Bread. 

Put  one  pint  of  cornmeal  in  a  bowl  and  scald  it  with  boiling  water 
enough  to  wet  it.  Let  it  stand  awhile,  then  add  cold  water  enough 
to  make  a  soft  batter.  Now  add  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  one-half  a  cup  of 
molasses,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  saltspoon  of  soda,  one 
pint  of  rye  meal.  Beat  thoroughly  and  let  the  mixture  rise  over  night ; 
in  the  morning  stir  it  down  and  put  it  in  a  well  greased  tin ;  let  it  rise 
again.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

Oue  egg,  one  cup  of  molasses,  four  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  table- 
spoon of  shortning,  two  teaspocnfuls  of  soda.  Beat  well  together  and 
add  two  cups  of  flour,  and  four  cups  of  cornmeal ;  steam  four  hours, 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot  with  baked  beans. 

Graham  Bread. 

Take  one  pint  of  good  potato  sponge,  add  one  pint  lukewarm  water, 
one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  teaspoon  of  salt ;  add  Graham  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter ;  put  in  baking  tins  and  let  the  mixture  rise  again. 
Bake  in  aslow  oven,  and  when  done  wrap  in  a  towel  and  let  it  steam. 

Eastern  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  of  white  cornmeal,  one  cup  of  rye  flour,  one  cup  of  Graham 
flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  cup  of 
molasses,  one  pint  of  sour  milk.    Steam  three  hours.  d 

Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  a  periect  cougn  cure. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Quick  Corn  Bread. 

One  pint  of  cornmeal,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  of  salt ;  beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  dripping  pan.  A 
tablespoon  of  sugar  improves  it. 

Bean  Bread. 

In  the  place  of  potatoes  in  bread  reduce  a  pint  of  beans  by  boiling 
to  a  pulp.  Extract  the  moisture  and  use  the  pulp  in  the  sponge.  Par- 
snips and  sweet  potatoes  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Salt  Rising  Bread. 

Take  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  when  luke- 
warm stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  rather  a  stiff  batter.  Put  it  where 
it  will  be  very  warm  overnight,  in  the  morning  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  very 
warm  water,  stir  frequently,  add  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
some  warm  water,  stir  well  and  leave  to  rise ;  when  the  dish  is  nearly 
full  put  a  quantity  of  flour  in  the  bread  pan,  put  in  a  quart  of  water, 
quite  warm,  stir  in  some  of  the  flour  and  then  the  rising  batter,  cover 
this  with  flour  an  inch  thick  and  put  in  a  warm  place  ;  when  light  make 
into  loaves  and  put  to  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  well  heated  oven  nearly 
an  hour. 

Vienna  Bread. 

Take  three  pints  of  milk  and  water,  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of 
compressed  yeast,  two  quarts  of  flour.  Place  the  flour  in  a  bread  bowl, 
and  put  in  the  milk,  water  and  salt.  Make  a  thin  batter.  Add  the 
yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water.  Beat  well  and  cover  the 
bowl  and  let  it  stand  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  At  the  end  of  that 
time  mix  in  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Let  the  dough  stand  for  three  hours 
until  it  is  light  and  elastic.  Cut  into  small  pieces.  Flatten  these  into 
squares,  fold  their  corners  to  the  center,  pinch  them  down  to  hold  them. 
Let  them  stand  for  ten  minutes,  turn  them  over  again  and  let  them 
stand  a  while  longer.  Put  them  in  a  hot  oven.  When  they  have  risen, 
brush  them  with  a  sponge  wet  with  milk,  return  to  oven  and  finish 
baking. 

Squash  Bread. 

One  cup  of  squash  stewed  and  sifted,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two 
cups  of  scalded  milk,  teaspoon  of  salt,  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  yeast  or  one-half  cake  of  dry  yeast.  Mix  squash,  sugar  and 
salt,  add  butter  melted  in  hot  milk,  and  when  cool  add  yeast.  Knead 
and  let  it  rise  very  light.    Mold  into  loaves  and  let  it  rise  again.  e 

JB^-Gentlemen  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  very  beneficial  applied  immediately 
jr  bha\ ' 


after  &  having. 


10  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

[jJg\ISCUIT,  muffins,  griddle  cakes,  etc,  are  made  with  either  sour  or 
[gm  sweet  milk.  Soda  must  be  used  with  something  containing  an 
acid,  and  is  neutralized  with  sour  milk.  Soda  is  used  in  the 
proportion  of  one  even  teaspoon  to  a  pint  of  thick  sour  milk,  or  butter- 
milk. Always  pulverize  your  soda  on  the  board  with  a  knife  before 
measuring,  and  sift  into  the  flour.  Some  dissolve  it  in  the  milk,  but  in 
doing  this  some  of  the  gas  escapes  in  the  effervescence.  When  sweet 
milk  is  used,  use  either  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  or  baking  powder. 
Use  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one 
quart  of  flour.  It  requires  a  little  more  than  twice  as  much  cream  of 
tartar  to  neutralize  the  soda. 

Use  baking  powder  in  the  proportion  of  three  rounding  teaspoon- 
fuls  to  one  quart  of  flour.  Always  sift  it  thoroughly  in  the  flour, 
use  only  the  best  cream  of  tartar.  The  pure  article  can  be  obtained 
best  at  a  drug  store.  Soda  biscuit  must  be  made  as  quickly  as  possible. 
Baking  powder  biscuit  must  be  mixed  very  soft,  and  handled  as  little 
as  is  necessary  to  get  them  in  shape  to  cut  out.  Biscuit  must  be  put 
in  a  hot  oven,  then  cool  the  oven  off  gradually  after  they  have  risen 
until  done  a  light  brown.  Molasses  gives  another  acid,  and  is  used 
with  soda  alone. 

In  making  gems  or  muffins  have  your  pans  hot  before  pouring  in 
the  mixture.  Waffles  irons  should  be  put  on  to  heat  when  you  com- 
mence to  make  your  waffles.  Grease  on  both  sides  with  a  cloth  tied 
to  the  end  of  stick  and  used  especially  for  this  purpose.  Lard  or  beef 
drippings  are  the  best  for  greasing  the  irons.  They  require  a  longer 
time  to  bake  than  griddle  cakes.  Always  sift  your  flour  before  meas- 
uring. In  making  rolls  and  raised  biscuits,  mold  and  set  to  rise  two 
hours  before  baking. 

Sour  Cream  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  even 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  measured  after  it  is  pulverized,  one  pint  of  sour 
cream.  If  sweet  cream  is  used,  use  with  the  soda  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Sift  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour.  Mix  with 
the  hands  as  little  as  possible.  f 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  n 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  sifted 
in  the  flour,  one  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  of 
salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar ;  rub  in  a  large  tablespoon  of  lard  or  but- 
ter, wet  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  You  can  use  instead  of  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Leave  out  the 
sugar  and  by  using  more  shortening,  wet  with  the  same  quantity  of 
water. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt,  one  pint  of  milk.  The  secret  of  success  with  these  biscuit 
is  mixing  them  very  soft  and  baking  in  a  quick,  hot  oven. 

Milk  Biscuit. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  one  pint  milk  boiled  and  cooled,  one 
half  cup  of  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Make  hole  in  the  flour  and 
make  a  sponge  of  the  milk  and  butter,  let  rise  very  light.  Mold  into 
small  balls  and  let  them  rest  again,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Muffins  with  Maple  Sugar. 

Take  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one  quart  of  flour,  tablespoon  of  shortening.  Mix  and  roll  out  in  a 
long  sheet.  Have  butter  warmed  very  soft,  spread  over  the  sheet  of 
dough  and  cover  with  maple  sugar.  Roll  up  like  roll  jelly  cake,  cut  off 
in  slices.  Put  in  a  tin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  are  delicious 
for  tea. 

Velvet  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  yeast  cake  ;  roll  thin  and  cut  with  cake  cutter.  Butter  and  let  rise 
very  light. 

Muffins. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a 
little  salt.  Beat  all  till  light  and  very  smooth  ;  pour  in  hot  gem  pans 
and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Muffins.    2. 

One  teacup  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  in 
hot  gem  pans  and  cut  immediately.  g 


12  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Buns. 

Break  an  egg  in  a  cup,  fill  with  sweet  milk,  add  one-fourth  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  yeast.  Flavor  with 
either  nutmeg  or  cinnamon ;  let  rise  until  very  light  and  mix  in  a  few 
currants.  Mold  into  very  small  balls,  and  after  rising  a  second  time 
glaze  with  a  little  molasses  and  milk.  Bake  twenty  minutes,  a  deli- 
cate brown. 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

Rub  one-half  cup  of  butter  into  two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  add  one 
pint  of  milk  scalded  and  cooled,  one-half  cup  yeast,  a  little  salt,  two 
tablespoons  of  white  sugar.  Make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  pour  in  milk, 
yeast  and  salt ;  let  rise  over  night ;  in  the  morning  knead  and  let  stand 
until  tea  time.  Mold  and  cut  with  cake  cutter ;  put  a  little  melted  butter 
on  one  half  and  lap  over  the  other  half,  let  rise  again  and  bake  quickly. 

Johnny  Cake. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  cup  and 
a  half  of  sour  milk,  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  egg,  one-third  cup  of 
flour  and  small  cup  of  meal.    Bake  in  a  long  tin  and  cut  in  squares. 

Johnny  Cake.    2. 

Two-thirds  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  teaspoons  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  six  table- 
spoons of  Indian  meal  and  three  of  flour.     This  makes  a  thin  batter. 

Sally  Lunn. 

One  cup  of  scalded  and  cooled  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one- fourth  cup  of  yeast,  one  egg.  Flour  enough 
to  make  a  drop  batter ;  let  them  stand  five  or  six  hours  and  rise ;  then 
add  one  large  tablespoon  of  butter.     Bake  in  hot  gem  pans. 

Graham  Gems. 

Two  cups  Graham  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
of  milk,  one  cup  of  water,  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Gems,  (without  soda  or  Eggs.) 

One  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  salt-spoon  of  salt,  two  and 
a  half  cups  of  Graham  flour.    Bake  in  very  hot  buttered  gem  pans. 

Graham  Gems. 

One  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder ;  Graham  flour  to  make  a 
thick  batter.  Mix  baking  powder  with  flour,  melt  butter,  mix  with 
sugar  and  lastly  add  milk  and  egg.  h 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  18 

Graham  Gems.    2. 

One  egg,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  cup  and 
a  half  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda ;  Graham 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Gems. 

One  pint  flour,  one  pint  milk,  one  egg,  a  little  salt.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Corn  Gems. 

Two  cups  cornmeal,  one  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  three  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt ;  put 
in  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Griddle  Cakes. 

One  pint  good  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Beat  yolks  and  whites 
separately. 

Oat  Meal  Griddle  Cakes. 

To  the  above  recipe  add  less  flour  and  one  cup  of  cooked  oatmeal 
left  from  breakfast. 

Bread  Cakes. 

Soak  bread  crumbs  over  night  in  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  add  two 
eggs,  tablespoon  of  butter,  teaspoon  of  soda  and  cornmeal  to  make 
them  like  griddle  cakes.  Some  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately.  It 
makes  griddle  cakes  very  light. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Take  one  quart  of  warm  water,  add  five  teacups  of  buckwheat  flour 
and  one  of  white  flour,  a  little  salt.  Thin  in  the  morning  with  one 
teacup  of  milk,  half  milk  can  be  used  with  the  water;  use  one-half 
yeast  cake  or  one  cup  of  good  yeast.  Let  them  rise  over  night,  in  the 
morning  add  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda.  What  batter  is  left  can 
be  used  a  second  time  by  adding  more  milk  and  water  and  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  soda. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.    2. 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  on  one  cup  of  cornmeal  and  half  a 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  well  and  when  lukewarm  add  one-half  cup  of 
white  flour  and  one  cup  of  buckwheat  flour ;  one-half  cup  of  yeast.  Let 
them  rise  over  night,  in  the  morning  beat  down  and  add  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  i 


£8f*WE  guarantee  our  work.  If  it  is  not  entirely  satisfactory  send  ir,  back: 
don't  use  it  up  and  then  ask  lor  a  rebate,  as  you  won't  get  it,  We  don't  care  to 
de«l  with  cranks.     The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 


14  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Cornmeal  Griddle  Cakes 

One-half  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  cornmeal,  one  pint  of  sour  cream, 
teaspoon  of  soda. 

Waffles. 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  sweet  milk,  one  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter.  Have  your  waffle  irons  hot.  Brown  on  one 
side  and  turn. 

Waffles.    2. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Beat 
whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately. 

Raised  Waffles. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet  warm  milk,  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  half  a  teacupful  of  yeast,  or 
one-half  cake  of  any  kind  of  yeast.     Let  them  rise  over  night. 

Pop  Overs. 

Two  teacups  of  sweet  milk,  two  teacups  of  sifted  flour,  butter  size 
of  a  walnut,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  little  salt.  Bake  in 
hot  gem  pans  and  eat  while  hot.  They  are  nice  served  with  maple 
syrup  or  raspberry  jam. 

Corn  Mush. 

Take  three  pints  of  water,  salt  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  stir  in  meal, 
letting  it  sift  througir  the  fingers  until  it  is  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred 
with  the  hand.  Let  it  stand  on  top  of  stove  in  pan  of  water,  and  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour. 

To  fry  for  breakfast  add  flour  to  the  above  mixture.  Slice  in  thin 
slices,  frying  in  hot  lard,  or  dip  in  beaten  eggs  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard.     Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

Toast. 

Use  bread  two  days  old.  Brown  over  quick  fire.  First  warm  each 
side  of  the  bread,  then  put  the  first  side  to  the  fire  and  let  it  remain 
until  it  is  a  rich  brown,  then  turn  the  other  side  to  the  fire.  This 
extracts  the  moisture  and  makes  the  bread  very  digestable.  Cut  the 
slices  uniform,  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Butter  as  soon  as  it  is  re- 
moved from  the  fire.  j 

"There  i«  a  book  with  the  title:  'How  to  Be  H«ppy  Though  MarnVd.'  Doesn't 
fill  th^  bill  for  <>id  maids.  They  want  a  book  that  will  tell  them  bow  to  be  happy 
though  unmarried." 


COMMON  SENSE   COOK  BOOK.  35 

Milk  Toast. 

Toast  the  bread  as  given  above ;  take  one  pint  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoon of  cornstarch,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  large  lump  of  but- 
ter. Stir  the  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk  in  the  hot  milk 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Put  toast  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  cream 
over  it.  Let  it  stand  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  hot.  Some 
add  a  well  beaten  egg  the  last  thing  to  the  cream.  A  good  plan  is  to 
fry  the  flour  in  the  butter. 

French  Toast. 

Take  two  eggs,  beaten  light,  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  dip 
slices  of  dry  bread  in  this  mixture  and  fry  on  a  well  buttered  griddle. 

German  Toast. 

Chop  fine  nice  tender  beef,  veal  or  chicken,  season  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  a  little  sage  or  thyme  if  desired.  Add  enough  water  to 
make  a  thin  mixture.  Let  boil  five  minutes  and  spread  on  slices  of 
toast.     Serve  hot. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Stew  a  quart  of  tomatoes,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
sugar  to  taste,  add  a  little  minced  onion  if  desired ;  strain  and  pour  over 
large  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Just  before  serving  add  a  cup  of  cream ; 
this  makes  it  very  nice.    Serve  hot  and  at  once. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

One-fourth  pound  of  rich  cream  cheese,  one-'fourth  cup  of  cream 
or  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
cayenne,  one  egg,  piece  of  butter  size  of  egg,  four  slices  of  toast. 
Grate  the  cheese,  and  put  in  the  milk,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 
When  the  cheese  has  melted  cook  two  minutes.  Spread  on  the  toast, 
and  let  stand  in  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  immediately. 

Welsh  Rarebit.    2. 

Allow  a  slice  of  toast  for  each  person.  Toast  slightly  and  spread 
with  butter.  Take  one  cup  or  more  grated  cheese,  large  piece  of 
butter,  a  little  mustard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  cayenne  pepper  a  few 
grains,  one  cup  of  beer  or  enough  to  melt  the  cheese.  Spread  on  the 
toast  and  serve  immediately.     Prepare  as  the  recipe  above  says.  k 

She  Is  Willing. 

Mrs.  Twynn— Don't  you  object  to  your  husband  playing  poker  so  much? 
Mrs.  Triplett— Oh  no!    He  nearlyalways  wins.— Truth. 

JP^-The  cook  will  find  something  interesting  on  page  32. 


16  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Toasted  Crackers. 

Take  large  crackers.  The  salted  zephyrettes  are  best.  Spread 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  grated  cheese ;  a  little  mustard  if  pre- 
ferred. Brown  a  delicate  color  in  a  quick  oven.  These  are  nice  to 
serve  with  salads,  and  are  excellent  with  beer. 

Sardines  on  Toast. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  with  an  equal  amount  of  sar- 
dines rubbed  to  a  paste.  Season  with  lemon  juice,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per and  spread  on  buttered  toast. 

Codfish  Toast. 

Make  a  nice  codfish  cream,  and  pour  over  slices  of  buttered 
toast.    Chipped  beef  in  cream  can  be  used  the  same  way. 

Raised  Muffins. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  stir 
until  it  is  melted.  When  lukewarm  add  two  teaspoonsfuls  of  sugar, 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  yeast.  Stir  in  the 
flour  until  thick  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon.  Let  them  stand,  and 
rise  over  night.  Lift  out  lightly  in  the  morning,  and  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls in  hot  muffin  tins. 

Crumpets. 

Scald  two  cups  of  milk.  Melt  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add 
to  the  milk,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  three 
and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Add  one-half  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
one-half  cup  of  warm  water.  Beat  well  and  let  them  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  very  light,  two  hours.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  on  a  hot 
griddle.  1 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Schiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.  Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 
Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

Featherstone— My  ears  were  frost-bitten  last  winter,  and  I   wouldn't  be  sur- 
prised if  I  had  to  wear  ear-muffs  this  year. 

Ringway— You'd  better  see  about  it  right  away. 

Feaiherstone— Why?    It  isn't  cold  enough  yet. 

Riug way— xMavbe  not,  old  chap,  but  you  will  have  to  get  them  made  to  order. 

—Truth. 
.Caswell's  Blood  Cleaner  will  purify  the  blood. 


__  'The  Swinburne  Printing  Company  would  like  to  see  you  when  you  have 
any  use  for  printer's  ink. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  ™ 


CAKE. 


ATHER  materials  together,  and  have  your  table  cleared  of 
everything  else.  Put  your  butter  where  it  will  warm,  but  not 
melt.  Eggs  should  be  placed  in  the  ice  chest  to  cool  so  as  to 
beat  well.  Always  use  the  best  butter  for  cake,  as  heat  developes  all 
its  bad  qualities.  Have  your  sugar  fine.  First  cream  your  butter  and 
sugar,  then  add  eggs  beaten  very  light,  then  milk,  and  lastly  Hour  and 
flavoring.  Always  sift  the  flour  before  measuring.  If  baking  powder  is 
used  sift  in  the  flour  previously  measured.  If  cream  of  tartar  and  soda 
are  used,  dissolve  soda  in  the  milk  and  sift  cream  tartar  in  the  flour. 
Remember  two  things,  sour  milk  makes  light  spongy  cake,  and  soda 
should  always  be  used  with  it.  Sweet  milk  makes  a  firmer  cake,  and 
baking  powder  or  cream  tartar  and  soda  should  be  used.  Any  light 
cake  is  improved  by  beating  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  yolks 
very  light.  The  whites  are  stirred  in  the  flour  the  last  thing.  In 
sponge  cake  the  eggs  must  always  be  beaten  separately  and  the  flour 
sifted  very  light.  Do  not  stir  your  mixture,  but  beat  thoroughly, 
bringing  the  batter  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  dish  at  each  stroke. 
Use  an  earthen  bowl  in  preference  to  tin.  Use  the  same  cup  always 
for  measuring.  Those  little  tin  ones  with  the  halves  and  fourths 
marked  are  very  handy.  In  fruit  cake  always  seed  your  raisins  by 
pouring  boiling  water  on  them.  Cut  your  citron  or  candied  fruit  into 
small  pieces.  Always  wash  currants  thoroughly  and  dry  in  a  sieve. 
Brown  your  flour.     Add  fruit  last  thing  well  floured. 

The  baking  of  the  cake  is  of  as  much  importance  as  the  mixing. 
Let  your  oven  be  hot  when  you  put  your  cake  in,  then  keep  it  at  an 
even  temperature.  Do  not  shake  oven  or  open  too  often,  as  an 
unequal  temperature  will  cause  it  to  fall.  Layer  cakes  require  a  brisk 
fire ;  large  cakes,  a  slow  steady  fire.  In  baking  fruit  cakes  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  put  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  well  greased  writing  paper 
on  the  bottom  of  your  pan.  Molasses  in  dark  cakes  burns  very 
quickly . 

To  test  your  cake  to  see  if  it  is  done  use  a  splinter  from  a  new 
broom,  or  a  steel  knitting  needle.  If  nothing  adheres  to  them,  or  if 
the  cake,  as  we  say,  has  stopped  "  singing,"  it  is  done.  Grease  tins 
always  with  lard  or  cottosuet.    If  almonds  are  used  blanch  by  pour- 


18  THE    WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

CHAP-O-LENE 

Will  positively  cure  all  roughness  of  the  skin. 


Caswell's     Pectoral     Balsam 

Is  very  highly  recommended  for  Coughs,  Colds  and 

all  Affections  of  the  Throat,  Chest  and  Langs. 

It  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction. 


eriiLD's  eoweH  e^RE 

Is  prepared  expressly  for  children  and  is  not  attended  by  the 
least  danger,  as  is  the  case  with  cough  remedies  pre- 
pared for  adults,  the  dose  of  which  must  be 
reduced  when  given  to  children. 


Caswell's  Beef,  Wine  and  Iron 

Is  the  best  preparation  of  that  universal  and  efficient 
Tonic. 


Caswell's  Blood  Claner 

Will  Purify  your  Blood. 


These    Preparations   are    Sold    Exclusively 

. .  by  .  • 

The  Weinhold  Prug  Go. 

LEADING  PRESCRIPTION  DRUGGISTS, 

Minneapolis. 

THREE    STORES, 

Fourth  Avenue  Soulh  and  Franklin,  Nicollet  Avenue  and  Grant  Street 
and  West  Mel. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  10 

ing  boiling  water  on  them  and  when  cold  slip  off  skins  and  pound  or 
chop.  Cottosuet  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  butter  for  shortening 
cake,  and  is  very  much  cheaper. 

Delicate  Cake. 

Half  teacup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  of  flour,  one- 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  teaspoon  of  baking  powder ; 
flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Confectionery  Cake. 

Whites  of  five  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  butter, 
two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder. 

Dark  Part. — Take  one-half  cup  of  white  mixture,  add  one-half 
teacup  of  molasses,  good  one-half  cup  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  raisins, 
one-half  cup  of  currants,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  wineglass  of  brandy 
or  two  table-spoons  of  water,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  nutmeg ;  bake  in  three  tins  ;  use  dark  layer  for  center ;  put 
together  with  any  kind  of  icing.  Nuts  or  candied  fruit  chopped  in  it 
makes  a  very  rich  cake. 

Spice  Cake. 

One  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  flour,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  cup 
ot  butter,  four  eggs,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  'one  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  One  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two 
of  cream  tartar  can  be  used  in  place  of  baking  powder.  Half  of  this 
recipe  makes  a  good  cake. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
two  cups  of  flour  mixed  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cup 
sweet  milk.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — One  cup  of  grated  or  desiccated  cocoanut,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  till  quite  a  jelly.  Put 
any  kind  of  icing  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  the  dry  cocoanut. 

Chocolate  Cream  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  teacup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  of  flour,  half 
cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  long  or  square  loaf.  For  the  top  take  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  boil  four  minutes  after  it  com- 
mences to  boil,  beat  to  a  cream  and  spread  while  warm  on  top  of  cake. 
Shave  off  a  small  cup  of  Baker's  chocolate,  and  melt  on  back  of  stove  ; 
spread  over  the  cream  and  put  away  to  harden .  n 


20  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Angels  Food. 

Whites  of  eleven  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  and  a  half  cups 
sugar,  one  coffee  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one-half  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Sift  flour  several  times  before  adding  cream  of  tartar, 
this  makes  it  very  light ;  add  pinch  of  salt  and  whites  lastly  in  the 
flour.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  an  hour. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  and  half  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  of  sifted  flour, 
haif  cup  cold  water,  two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  and  one  of  soda, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan.  Beat 
yolks  and  whites  separately. 

Sponge  Cake.    2. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  one  of  cold  water,  one  cup  of  sifted  flour ;  add  whites 
beaten  stiff. 

Sponge  Cake.    8. 

Six  eggs,  two  teacups  pulverized  sugar ;  beat  yolks  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  one  and  half  cups  of  flour  with  two  small  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder  in  it.  Add  whites  beaten  stiff  till  the  top  is  covered  with 
bubbles. 

Sponge  Cake.    4. 

Ten  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  of  flour,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  very  light, 
add  lemon,  then  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  pan,  the  mixture  to  be  about 
the  depth  of  three  inches. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half 
cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  chopped  hickory  nuts,  two  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Fig  Cake. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  small  half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling  for  Fig  Cake. 

Take  one-half  pound  of  best  figs,  chop  fine,  one  pint  of  water,  one 
tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Cook  slowly  till  a  thick  jelly,  add  more  water 
if  necessary.     Spread  between  layers  and  ice  the  top.  o 

HJ^Child's  Cough  Cure  is  prepared  especially  for  children. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  21 

Molasses  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  light  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  butter,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of  sour  milk  or  butter  milk, 
small  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  not  a  very  stiff 
batter,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Ginger  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  molasses,  one  cup  melted  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  soda 
disolved  in  one  cup  of  hot  water,  two  teaspoons  of  ginger,  or  one  of  nut- 
meg, flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Always  bake  molasses  or 
ginger  cake  in  a  very  slow  oven  for  molasses  burns  very  quickly. 

Ginger  Drop  Cakes. 

Half  cup  sugar,  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  ginger.  Two  teaspoons  of  soda  in  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  well  beaten  eggs. 
Bake  in  gem  tins,  or  drop  in  spoonfuls  some  distance  apart  in  a  well 
greased  dripping  pan. 

Spanish  Bun  Cake. 

Two  teacups  sugar,  two  teacups  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half 
cup  butter,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one 
teaspoon  soda,  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  or  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder.     Lastly  add  one  half  cup  of  chopped  raisins  or  currants. 

Common  Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  four  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  half 
pound  currants,  one  fourth  pound  of  citron ;  candied  lemon  is  also 
used,  spice  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  soda.  This  makes  a  very  nice 
common  fruit  cake. 

Wedding  Cake. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  one  pound 
flour,  two  teaspoons  each  of  cinnamon  and  mace,  one  teaspoon  of  nut- 
meg and  allspice,  one  half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
two  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  half  pound  of  lemon 
peel,  one  pound  of  almonds,  one  wine  glass  brandy,  one  lemon.  Use 
dark  brown  sugar,  cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  beaten  yolks  and 
beaten  whites,  then  lemon  juice,  brandy,  flour  browned  a  little,  and 
lastty  fruit  well  dredged  with  flour.  Blanch  and  chop  almonds  fine. 
This  will  make  two  cakes.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three  hours.       P 


Every  business  man  can  profit  if  lie  will  carefully  follow  the  recipe  on 
page  32. 


22  THE   WEINHOLB  DRUG  CO. 


m^Mf^Mf^Mf^Mf^  i  i&i  j  jSBiBSfSiMiSSBig 


COTOSUET 


Made  only  by 


SWIFT  asd  COMPANY. 


Cotosuet  is  composed  of  the  best  cooking  Cotton  Seed 
Oil  and  Beef  Suet,  and  mixes  more  thoroughly  than  Lard 
in  pastry  and  cake. 

Cotosuet  contains  no  Hog  Fat  and  is  a  pure  and  whole- 
some cooking  material. 


W 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  USING  COTOSUET. 

Cotosuet  is  used  exactly  the  same  as  lard  in  cooking.  Use  only 
one-half  or  two  thirds  the  amount  of  Cotosuet  that  you  would  of 
lard.  Always  apply  to  the  pan  before  heating.  All  cooking  fats  will 
have  a  burnt  odor  if  put  in  a  hot  pan. 

Try  the  following  recipe  for  Doughnuts:    1  tablespoon  Cotosuet, 

1  cup  Milk,  1  Cup  Sugar,  2  Eerers,  light  tablespoon  Baking  Powder,  1 
pinch  Mace,  1  pinch  Salt,  Flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough,  about 

2  cups.    Fry  in  Cotosuet. 

H 


m 

i 
i 

s 
i 

si 

i 

i 


RECOMMENDED    BY    MRS.    MASTERMAN. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  23 

Orange  Cake. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter,  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  cup 
milk,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  two  and  a  half  small  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers.  Beatwhitesof  three  eggs  stiff;  pul- 
verized sugar  to  consistency ;  juice  and  grated  peal  of  one  orange.  Put 
white  frosting  on  top  and  lay  pieces  of  an  orange  in  it. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour  mixed  with  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Jelly — One  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  eggs, 
juice  of  two  lemons.  Beat  all  together  and  boil  in  a  double  cooker  till 
the  consistency  of  jelly.    Oranges  can  be  used  in  place  of  lemons. 

Cream  Cakes. 

One  cup  hot  water,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  beaten  whites  and  yolks  separ- 
ately. Boil  water,  salt  and  butter,  add  flour  slowly  while  boiling,  stir 
for  five  minutes  and  when  cool  add  eggs. -^lix  with  hands  and  drop 
in  tablespoon  on  a  buttered  baking  pan  QBIme  distance  apart.  When 
cool  split  and  fill  with  cream  made  as  follows:  Cream — One  pint 
milk,  two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  three-fourths 
cup  sugar,  one  saltspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  butter.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  five  minutes,  and  when  cool  flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla.  Fill 
with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Cake.    2. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one-half 
cup  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
tablespoon  orange  juice  and  grated  rind. 

Cream. — Grated  rind  and  half  the  juice  of  an  orange,  one  table- 
spoon lemon  juice.  Put  this  in  a  cup  and  fill  with  water,  strain,  and 
add  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  yolk  of  one  egg,  two  tablespoons 
sugar,  teaspoon  butter.  Boil  till  a  jelly.  Frost  top  and  cover  with 
pieces  of  orange. 

Banana  Cake. 

One  whole  egg  and  yolks  of  two,  one  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.     Bake  in  two  large  si»ed  jelly  tins. 

Filling.— Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff  with  sugar,  slice  four 
bananas.     Put  frosting  and  bananas  between  layers  and  on  top.  q 

High  class  printing  and  engraving.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 


24  COMMON  SENSE   COOK  BOOK. 

Roll  Jelly  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  in  flour.  Bake  slowly  in  a  long  tin  and 
roll  up  while  warm,  wrapping  in  a  cloth. 

Bride's  Cake. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  corn  starch,  two-thirds  tea- 
spoon soda,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  flavor  with  vanilla ; 
four  cups  of  flour. 

Caramel  Cake. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teacup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  teacups 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Caramel. — One  and  three-fourths  cups  of  best  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoons  of  vanilia, 
two  and  one-half  bars  of  grated  chocolate  or  one-fourth  pound  of 
Baker's  chocolate. 

Fig  Cake  or  Cocoanut. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  One  cup  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  or  one-half  pound  of 
figs  cut  up  fine  and  well  floured,  stirred  in  the  batter  makes  a  very 
rich  cake.    Bake  in  a  loaf  and  ice  the  top. 

Raised  Cake. 

Two  cups  very  light  dough,  half  cup  of  butter,  cup  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  half  teaspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  half  a  nutmeg,  cup  of  chopped 
raisins  well  floured ;  stir  all  together  well,  place  where  it  is  warm  and 
let  rise  for  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
whites  of  four  eggs,  two  cups  and  a  half  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  half  a  pound  of  chopped  al- 
monds, one  pound  of  seeded  raisins  and  one-half  cup  of  desiccated 
cocoanut  if  desired ;  chop  fruit  all  fine,  flour,  and  stir  in  the  last  thing. 
This  will  make  two  loaves  and  should  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven,    r 

^flp-CasweH's  Pectoral  Balsam  cures  all  coughs,  colds  and  affections  of  the 
throat,  chest  and  luDgs. 

"The  oculist  and  the  dentist  are  always  ready  to  furnish  an  eye  for  an  eye 
and  a  tooth  for  a  tooth." 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  25 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  two  eggs,  one  half  cup  of  strong  coffee,  one  small  teaspoon 
soda,  one  half  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace,  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one-half  cup  of  currants,  two  cups  of  flour. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  leave 
out  whites  of  two,  three  and  a  half  of  flour,  small  cups,  one  teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda  or  one  and  a  half  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  layers. 

Icing. — The  whites  of  two  eggs,  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  six  table- 
spoons of  grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Put  the  choco- 
late, sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  water  inasucepan,  stir  until  smooth 
and  glossy  over  a  hot  fire,  beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth ;  beat  all  together 
and  spread  between  layers,  and  on  top. 

Walnut  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  large  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  and  one  cup  of 
English  walnuts,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda, 
or  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  loaf  and  ice,  putting 
halves  of  the  nuts  on  top. 

Pork  Cake. 

One  half  pound  of  fat  pork  chopped  fine,  pour  over  it  one  cup  of 
boiling  water,  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  two 
eggs,  four  small  cups  of  flour,  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Add  a 
pound  of  chopped  raisins,  and  one-fourth  pound  of  citron  if  desired. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

Make  a  good  sponge  cake,  bake  in  layers,  and  let  it  get  perfectly 
old.  Take  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  sweeten,  whip,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla ;  chop  a  pound  of  almonds  and  stir  in  the  cream.  This  makes 
a  delicious  cake.    The  almonds  can  be  left  out. 

Jelly  Cake. 

Half  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sour  cream,  three  of  flour, 
three  eggs,  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with 
jelly.  g 

JP^*The  housekeeper  should  not  fail  to  study  page  32. 

The  man  who  is  proud  of  his  old  family,  might  snub  its  founders  as  upstarts 
if  he  had  the  chance.— Puck. 


2ft 


THE    WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


Chew  Beeman'g  pepsin  [[urn. 


A  Delicious  Remedy  for  Indigestion,  and  the 
Perfection  of  Chewing  Gums. 


i 


BEWARE    OF  IMITATIONS. 

TWTTTTTWYW 
ORIGINATED    AND    MANUFACTURED    BY    THE 


Be?m&r\    Comical    ComP*nJ?> 


CLEVELAND,  OHIO. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  27 


Neapolitan  Cake. 

Black  Part. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  cup  butter, 
half  cup  molasses,  half  cup  strong  coffee,  two  and  a  half  cups  flour, 
one  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  currants,  teaspoon  soda,  teaspoon  each 
of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace. 

White  Part. — Two  cups  white  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one  of  milk, 
two  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  one  of  corn  starch,  whites  of  four  eggs, 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  all  together  with 
icing  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Huckleberry  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  five  eggs,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg,  one  quart  of  berries  dredged  with  flour.  Stir  in  carefully 
and  bake  in  a  loaf.    Ice  the  top. 

Poor  Man's  Cake. 

Three  cups  bread  dough,  two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  two  eggs. 
Mix  well ;  spice  to  taste  and  put  in  currants  and  raisins  if  preferred. 
Let  rise  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.     Do  not  use  any  flour. 

Zephyr  Cake. 

Wash  the  salt  out  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  powdered  sugar,  and  three  eggs,  teaspoon  rose 
water  and  sifted  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Stir  until  batter  is  so 
light  that  it  will  break  when  it  falls  against  the  side  of  the  crock  used 
in  mixing.     Bake  in  patty  tins. 

Maple  Sugar  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  one  heap- 
ing cup  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  mixed  in  it. 

Filling. — Boil  one  cup  of  maple  sugar  to  wax,  beat  white  of  one 
egg  to  stiff  froth,  pour  sugar  on  it  and  beat  quickly ;  spread  between 
layers. 

Excellent  Spice  Cake. 

This  is  a  delicious  cake  when  made  right.  Take  one  egg,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of  molasses  and  butter,  cup 
of  milk,  two  cupfulls  and  a  half  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
level  teaspoon  of  cream  tarter,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice,  and  one  tablespoon  of  mixed  spice.  Beat  egg  well,  add  mo- 
lasses, sugar,  spice,  butter,  lastly  add  lemon  juice.  Bake  in  a  shallow 
pan  twenty  minutes .  t 


28  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Jhe  Weinhold  prug  Go. 

ARE    THE    LARGEST 

RETAIL:  DRUGGISTS 

IN   MINNEAPOLIS. 

THEY  HAVE  THREE  STORES,  LOCATED  AS  FOLLOWS  I 

Fourth  Ave.  So.  and  Franklin, 

Nicollet  Ave.  and  Grant   St., 

and  at  the  West  Motel. 

(Fifth  St.  and  Hennepin.) 

The  Prescription  Departments 

of  all  these  stores  are  very  complete  in  every  way.  The 
purest  and  best  Drugs  and  Chemicals  are  always  on  hand 
and  competent  druggists  in  attendance. 

A  Very  Hice  Line  of  Druggist  Sundries 

can  always  be  found  comprising  Brushes    of  all  kinds, 
Combs,  Sponges,  Chamois  Skins,  Toilet  Articles, 
Soaps,  Etc. 

Their  Line  of  Perfumes 


both  bulk  and  in  bottles  is  the  best,  both  in  quality  and 
variety,  to  be  found  in  the  Northwest. 

— IAMILY  TRADE  is  given  especial  attention  and  prescrip- 
®7  tions,  packages,  etc.,  will  always  be  cheerfully  delivered. 
An  inspection  of  their  stores  will  convince  you  that  they  are 
all  that  is  claimed  for  them. 

Soliciting  your  patronage,  we  remain  your  friends, 


The  Weinhold  Drug  Co. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  29 

Whipped  Cream  Cake. 

One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  half 
teaspoon  soda,  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  two  tablespoons  of  butter. 
Bake  in  two  layers.  Take  one  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream,  and  beat 
till  thick ;  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  spread  between 
layers  and  on  top.  This  served  with  sliced  oranges  makes  a  delicious 
dessert,  or  put  sliced  bananas  between  the  layers  in  the  cream. 

Cocoanut  and  Raisin  Cream. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  or  vanilla,  saltspoon  of  mace,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  soda.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — One  cup  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  half  cup  grated 
cocoanut.  Stir  these  in  a  boiled  frosting  made  of  the  white  of  one  egg, 
and  small  teacup  of  granulated  sugar.     (See  Icings.) 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

One  half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  almond  flavoring,  one-half  cup  corn  starch,  one 
and  a  half  cups  pastry  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  one  and  a  half 
teaspoonsful  of  cream  tartar,  whites  of  six  eggs. 

Wedding  Cake. 

Twenty- four  ounces  of  sugar,  twenty-four  ounces  of  flour,  twenty 
ounces  of  butter,  fifteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  pounds  of 
sultana  raisins,  four  pounds  of  loose  muscatels,  one  ounce  of  mace, 
one  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  two  ounces  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  pint  of  brandy.  Stone  the  muscatels,  wash  the  white  raisins 
and  dry.  Put  together  as  indirections.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  and  just 
before  it  is  done  pour  over  it  the  brandy.  This  makes  it  very  moist. 
This  cake  will  keep  for  years  if  sealed  and  kept  in  a  perfectly  dry 
place.  This  recipe  makes  a  ten-pound  loaf.  The  six  pounds  of  raisins 
are  after  they  are  cleaned. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. 

One  cup  of  dried  apples  soaked  over  night.  Chop  fine  and  add 
half  a  cup  of  molasses  and  let  boil  a  while  slowly.  When  cool  add 
a  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda, 
half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice, 
two  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  two  long  tins  slowly  an  hour. 
A  cup  of  stoned  raisins  can  be  added.  u 

Chap-O-Lene  will  positively  cure  chapped  or  rough  skin. 


30  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Famous  Loaf  Cake. 

Two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one-half  a  pound 
of  sliced  citron.  Take  one  pint  of  butter  and  rub  into  it  three  quarts  of 
flour  and  one  and  one-third  pints  of  sugar ;  add'one  pint  of  milk  and 
three  well  beaten  eggs.  One  cup  of  fresh  yeast.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  set  to  rise.  When  risen,  add  a  pint  more  of  butter,  one  and  a  third 
of  sugar  and  three  eggs ;  mix  and  set  to  rise  again.  Add  the  fruit  and 
four  grated  nutmegs,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  one-fourth  of  an 
ounce  each  of  allspice  and  cloves,  one-half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon. 
Let  it  rise  the  third  time.  Bake  in  a  large  dripping  pan  three  or  four 
hours.  It  repays  the  time  and  labor  employed  in  making  it.  Ice  it 
with  a  boiled  icing.  v 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Shiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferes.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  awav.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.     Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

"There's  little  doubt  that  courteousness 

More  dividends  than  rudeness  pays. 
See  how  the  gambler  gathers  in 
The  dollars  by  his  winning  ways." 

|MP-Casweirs  Pectoral  Balsam  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction  or  money 
refunded. 

Tenderfoot  (to  cowboy)— "What  do  you  mean  by  shooting  my  dog;  he's  worth 
$150?"    Cowboy  (coolly)— "He  ain't  now,  sonny." 

J^y-THE  lady  of  the  house  is  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 

"Can't  you  wait  upon  me?"  said  the  impatient  customer.  "Two  pounds  of 
liver;  I'm  in  a  hurry."  "Sorrv,"  said  the  butcher;  "but  there  are  two  or  three 
ahead  of  you.    Surely  you  would*  not  have  your  liver  oufof  order!" 

gt^-  Advertisers  are  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 
"In   the   Chicago   council   a  flying  cuspidor  takes  precedence  over  all  other 
motions."  _  ^ 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA   OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  "R.  Rchiffmann,  St.  Paul.  Minn  ,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Sehiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
wiving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instatnt  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.     Weinh'.ld  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

"What's  that  dreadful  noise  in  the  parlor,  Hannah?"  "That  do  be  yer  small 
child  amusin'  hisself."  'What  is  the  darling  trying  to  do?"  "He  do  be  makm 
a  carpet  sweeper  uv  the  music-box." 

If  listeners  wish  to  hear  good  of  themselves  they  should  practice  the  art  of 
soliloquizing  —Puck. 

J»-Wkddtng  Invitations,  Announcements,  At  Home,  etc.  High  class  work 
produced  by  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 

iMrTATtONmay  be  the  sincerest  flattery;  but  an  up-to-date  girl  does  not  think  so 
when  she  is  presented  with  a  paste  diamond.— Puck. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  31 


COOKIES. 


|  OOKIES  require  a  brisk  fire.  Do  not  make  them  too  stiff  with 
flour.  Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  top  before  putting  in  oven. 
Prepare  mixture  as  for  cake.  Roll  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick .  Some  press  a  raisin  in  the  center,  or  brush  them  over  with  a 
mixture  of  sugar  and  water  while  hot,  sprinkle  seeds  or  currents  on 
top  and  return  to  oven  a  moment. 

Plain  Cookies. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  milk,  one 
egg,  two  even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  flour. 

Sour  Milk  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  mix  soft  and  roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick. 

Jumbles. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
three  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk,  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  one  of 
cream  tartar.     Roll  and  sprinkle  granulated  sugar  over  them. 

Hermits. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  of  chopped 
raisins,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  tablespoons  of  sour  milk, 
one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  nutmeg. 

Hermits.    2. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  of  raisins,  (stoned  and 
chopped),  three  eggs,  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  three  tablespoons  of 
milk,  half  a  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  six 
cupsful  of  flour.  w 


'Ladies  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  an  indispensable  article  for  the  toilet. 

♦'Well,  did  your  summer  girl  meet  you  at  the  station  with  a  buggy?" 
"No;  I  had  a  walk-over." 

•Your  attention  is  respectfully  called  to  page  32. 

•The  place  to  get  high  class  printing  is  at  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


32  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

How  to  be  Happy. 

Stop  worrying,  for  it  is  worry  that  silvers  the  hair ;  worry  that 
bends  us  to  the  earth  with  its  cruel  and  relentless  burden.  Yes,  stop 
worrying,  and  when  you  want  a  job  of  printing,  no  matter  how  large  or 
how  small,  go  direct  to  the  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  where  you 
can  get  just  what  you  want,  and  get  it  just  as  you  want  it.  If  your 
time  is  worth  anything,  you  will  save  money  and  be  happy  every  time 
you  follow  this  receipe. 


"WHAT'S  THAT? 

MY  JOB  NOT  DONE  YET  ! 

I  ought  to  have  taken  it  to  The 
Swinburne  Printing  Co.  and  I'd 
had  it  on  time.      I'll  do  so  hereafter. 


The  Swinburne  Printing  Co. 

O     PRODUCERS    OF     O 

.  .  HIGH-CLASS  WORK  .  . 


Printing  .  Binding  .  Lithographing 

Engraving  .  Embossing 

9-1  1-13   WASHINGTON   AVE.   N., 

MINNEAPOLIS,    MINN, 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  33 

Ginger  Snaps. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  or  part 
butter  and  lard ;  tablespoon  ginger,  teaspoon  cinnamon,  teaspoon  of 
cloves  and  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  three  table- 
spoons of  hot  water ;  flour  to  roll  out  easily .  Cut  small  and  roll  thin. 
Brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

Quick  Ginger  Cakes. 

Put  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  tea  cup,  pour  on  it  three  tablespoons 
of  boiling  water,  four  tablespoons  of  melted  shortening,  fill  cup  with 
molasses,  add  pinch  of  salt,  ginger,  cinnamon,  etc.  to  taste.  Mix  as 
soft  as  can  be  rolled. 

Lemon  Snaps. 

Cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  half  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  two  teaspoons  hot  water.  Flavor  with  lemon,  either 
extract  or  grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.     Roll  thin. 

Alum  Ginger  Bread. 

Pint  of  molasses,  teacup  melted  shortening,  tablespoon  of  ginger, 
teacup  boiling  water ;  in  which  dissolve  tablespoon  of  pulverized  alum. 
Take  a  little  of  the  water  and  dissolve  in  it  a  large  tablespoon  of  soda. 
Mix  soft.  Roll  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  bake  in  oblong  cards  in 
a  quick  oven. 

Cocoanut  Jumbles. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  large  cup  of  either 
grated  or  desiccated  cocoanut.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  easily- 
rolled.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Graham  Cookies. 

Take  two  cups  maple  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  egg,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  with  Graham  flour.  Use  white  flour  on  the 
board  to  roll  them  out .  Brown  or  white  sugar  may  be  used  in  place 
of  maple. 

Seed  Cookies. 

Cream  one-half  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths  pound  sugar,  one 
and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  one  well  beaten  egg,  half  gill  rose  water, 
pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  tablespoon  of  warm  water.  Knead  well 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Use  coriander,  caraway  or  cardamon 
seeds  or  any  mixture  of  them  preferred.  x 

£)flp-Use  Chap-O-Lene  for  all  roughness  of  the  skin. 

The  gallows  is  not  a  thing  of  the  past,  to  judge  from  the  great  deal  ofj  hanging 
done  on  Christmas  eve. 


34 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


The  Old  Reliable 


Dixon's  Cake  Polish  does  not  burn'red. 

Dixon's  Cake  Polish  does  not  gum  the  stove. 

Dixon's  Cake  Polish  makes  no  vile  smell. 

Dixon's  Cake  Polish  never  dries  or  wastes. 

Dixon's  Cake  Polish  is  the  Cheapest,  Neatest,  Cleanest. 


One  Cake  of  Dixon's 

Contains  as  much  polishing  matter  as  Six  Boxes  of  any 
Paste  Polish. 
Paste  Polish  is  made  of  soap,  gum  and  blacklead. 
It  smears  the   stove,  burns  red,  rusts  the  stove  and  makes 
sickening  odors.  

Dixon's  Cake  Polish  can  be  used  in  similar  manner  to  Paste  if 
desired.  Tear  off  paper  on  end  of  cake ;  rub  the  Polish  on  a  damp 
woolen  cloth  and  apply  to  the  stove  same  as  when  using  Paste  Polish. 
A  harder,  brighter  and  more  lasting  shine  is  obtained  by  using  a  pol- 
ishing brush  after  applying  with  a  cloth. 


REMEMBER:  One  Cake  of  Dixon's  Polish  is 
equal  to  Six  Boxes  of  the  Best  Paste  Polish,  and 
makes  no  poisonous  or  vile  smells. 

JOS.  DIXON  CRUCIBLE  CO., 

JERSEY   CITY,  N.  J. 

Established  1827,  Sole  Manufacturers. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  35 

Sweet  Wafers. 

Beat  one-half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Beat  six  eggs 
light,  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  wafer  iron.  If  you  have 
none  drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  on  a  greased  tin  some  distance 
apart,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Almond  Wafers. 

Beat  one-half  of  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  one  cup 
of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  six  eggs  light,  and  add  them  to  the  sugar, 
add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  four  ounces  of  almonds  blanched, 
pounded  and  chopped.    Add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  x 


Weary  Wiggins— All   right,  Madam.    I'm  willin'  ter  work  at  me    perfession. 
ha 


A  Great  Scheme. 

Mrs.  Goodly— I  am  willing  to  give  you  food  if  you  will  work  for  it 
Weary  Wiggins— All   right,  Madam.    I'm  v  "" 
I'mde  champion  pie-eater  of  America.— Judge. 

HAVE  YOTJ  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Schiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn. ,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instatnt  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.    Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

On    a  French    tombstone— could   it  have   been  found  on   any  other? — is  the 

inscription — ''Sacred  to  the  memory  of  Mile. ;  died  April  2,  in  her  eighty-first 

year.    She  never  looked  her  age." 

gtF*Row  to  make  Us  happy,  read  the  recipe  on  page  32  and  follow  it. 

The  average  young  woman  does  not  object  to  a  young  man  stealing  something 
from  under  her  very  nose.— Puck. 

Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

Little  Girl— Why  do  the  flies  bite  so  to-day? 

Mother— It's  going  to  rain. 

Little  Girl— Well,  they  might  know  'tain't  my  fault.— Truth. 

Ig^^Caswell's  Beef,  Wine  and  Iron  is  the  Ideal  Tonic. 

Customer— "I  am  troubled  with  rats  in  my  room."  Drggist— "Yes,  sir.  Bromide 
or  ammonia  cocktail?"— Brooklyn  Life. 

^U^The  housekeeper  should  not  fail  to  study  page  32. 

In  Chicago— Wife  (nervously)— "Do  you  think,  dear,  the  cholera  will  visit  us 
this  year?"  Husband— "I  wouldn't  be  at  all  surprised.  Everybody  else  we  ever 
heard  of  has  visited  us,  and  why  not  the  cholera?"  Wife  (brightening)— "That's  so. 
I  hadn't  thought  of  that.    I  guess  we  can  stand  it."— Detroit  Free  Press. 

I^U^Are  you  going  to  lay  this  book  down  and  not  read  that  recipe  on  page  32. 

Wandering  Willie— "There  is  somethin'  in  that  doctrine  'bout  castin'  yer 
bread  on  the  waters."  Tottering  Tom— "Proceed."  Wandering  Willie— "Why,  a 
cove  asked  me  to  hold  his  coat  while  he  fixed  his  horse's  hoofs,  an'  I  held  the  coat. 
Now  the  coat  holds  me."— Boston  Transcript. 

JP^r-THE  only  concern  in  the  city  making  a  specialty  of  high  class  printing, 
engraving  and  embossing  is  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 


36  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


CANDY. 


fN  MAKING  candy  cook  over  a  slow  fire.  Molasses  candy  and 
caramels  scorch  very  quickly.  Try  by  dropping  a  little  in  cold 
water.  If  it  becomes  brittle  and  snaps  the  candy  is  hard  enough, 
or  test  by  lifting  the  spoon,  and  if  the  mixture  "hairs"  or  ropes  from 
it,  this  is  a  good  test  that  the  candy  is  ready  to  be  removed  from  the 
fire.  Butter  should  be  put  in  when  the  candy  is  nearly  done,  and  all 
flavoring  should  be  added  just  after  removing  from  the  fire.  A  little 
vinegar  or  cream  of  tartar  will  keep  candy  from  graining.  Baker's 
chocolate  should  never  be  allowed  to  boil,  but  melted  by  placing  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Never  add  any  water 
to  it. 

Cream  Candy. 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  while  pulling.  Tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Cook  until  brittle 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Cool  and  pull.  Cut  in  small  pieces 
with  the  shears. 

Cream  and  Chocolate  Candy. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one  table- 
spoon of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Take  one-third  of  the  cream  and  flavor  with  two  tablespoons 
of  grated  chocolate.  Pour  into  a  mold  in  layers ;  dark  in  center.  Cut 
when  partly  cold  into  small  cubes. 

Butter  Scotch. 

Two  cups  of  suger,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half 
cup  of  butter.  Cook  until  brittle  when  dropped  in  water.  Pour  in 
buttered  pans,  and  mark  when  nearly  cold  in  small  squares. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

One  cup  grated  chocolate,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molas- 
ses, large  piece  of  butter,  pinch  of  soda  when  nearly  done.  Boil  half 
an  hour  over  a  slow  fire,  as  it  burns  very  quickly.  Pour  in  pans,  and 
mark  in  squares  when  nearly  cold.  z 

Chap-O-Lene  will  positively  cure  chapped  or  rough  skin. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  37 

Chocolate  Drops. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  a  pinch  of  cream 
of  tartar.  Boil  four  minutes,  and  beat  until  cold  enough  to  roll  into 
balls  with  the  fingers.  Take  one-half  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  melt 
and  roll  the  drops  in  it,  and  set  them  on  greased  paper  to  dry. 
Flavor  cream  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Walnut   Creams. 

Take  the  above  recipe.  Make  a  small  ball,  and  press  a  walnut 
meat  on  both  sides,  or  in  place  of  a  walnut  use  a  date. 

Almond  Macaroons. 

Blanch  and  pound  half  a  pound  of  almonds  to  a  smooth  paste,  add 
a  pound  of  sugar  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Work  all  together. 
Roll  into  balls  and  lay  on  buttered  paper  one  inch  apart.  Put  in  a 
cool  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Molasses  Candy. 

Two  cups  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  until  brittle  in 
water.  Cool  and  pull  until  gold  color.  Clip  off  with  the  shears  into 
pieces  an  inch  long.  Flavor  the  last  thing,  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
just  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

Hickory  Nut  Candy. 

Take  recipe  for  molasses  candy,  and  add,  just  before  removing 
from  the  fire,  one  cup  of  nut  meats.  Cool  in  a  buttered  pan  and  break 
up  in  pieces.     Peanuts  can  be  used  in  place  of  hickory  nut  meats. 

Lemon  Candy. 

Take  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  large  cup  of  water.  Cook  half  an 
hour.  Raise  spoon,  and  if  it  hairs,  as  we  say,  it  is  done.  Squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  part  of  a  lemon  or  a  little  vinegar  and  lemon  extract. 
Pour  in  a  tin  and  mark  in  squares  before  it  is  hard. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  white  of  an  egg,  cup  of  grated  or 
dessicated  cocoanut.    Roll  into  little  balls  and  bake  on  buttered  pane. 

Nut  Candy. 

Take  the  above  recipe  and  pour  in  just  before  putting  in  the 
pans,  chopped  cocoanut,  almonds,  hickory  nuts  and  slices  of  Brazilian 
nuts.  la 


38 


THE   WEINHOLB  DRUG  CO. 


MINNEAPOLIS  BREWING  CO 

LAGER    BEER    BREWERS. 


GENERAL  OFFICE  AND  BREWERY: 
CORNER  MARSHALL  STREET  AND  I3TH  AVENUE  N.  E., 

Minneapolis,  Minnesota.        m 


OUR  CELEBRATED  BRANDS  ARE 

Wiener,  Kaiser,  Lager,  Extra  Pale. 


FAMILY  TRADE 

RECEIVES 

OUR 

PARTI CULAR 

ATTENTION. 


Keep  a  Case  of  our  Celebrated  Bot- 
tled Beer  at  your  Home. 
It  is  the  Queen  of  all  Table  Beers. 
A  glass  of  it,  if  taken  at  meal  times, 
is  an  excellent  strengthener 
and  remedial  agent. 


ALL  ORDERS 

ARE 

PROMPTLY 

ATTENDED  TO. 


TELEPHONE  1177-2. 
BING  US  UP.  .  .  . 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  39 

Cocoanut  Squares. 

One  cocoanut  grated  fine,  two  cups  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  lemon  essence.  Boil 
slowly  until  stiff  and  pour  in  two  well  buttered  pans.  Mark  in  squares 
when  partly  cold. 

Hickory  Nut  Macaroons. 

One  egg,  half  cup  of  flour,  a  cup  of  meats  chopped  fine,  one  cup 
of  sugar.    Make  in  balls  and  bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

Confectionary  Candy. 

Mix  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  their  bulk  in  water  with  two  pounds 
of  confectionery  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  vanilla  and  lemon  mixed. 
Beat  well  and  you  have  the  foundation  for  several  kinds  of  candy. 
For  chocolate  drops  roll  into  marbles  and  dip  in  melted  Baker's  choc- 
olate, and  set  up  on  greased  papers  to  dry.  Roll  the  balls  in  chopped 
nut  meats  or  press  a  walnut  on  each  side  of  a  small  piece  of  the  paste 
and  smooth  off  the  rough  edges  with  the  fingers  and  you  have  a  walnut 
candy.  Sprinkle  cocoanut  on  a  layer  of  the  paste,  roll  a  little  and  cut  in 
squares  and  cocoanut  squares  are  the  result.  Figs  and  dates  can  be 
used  the  same  as  walnuts.  This  is  at  present  a  very  popular,  cheap 
and  convenient  way  of  making  several  kinds  of  candy.  It  should  be 
eaten  at  once,  as  it  dries  very  quickly. 

Marrous  Glacis. 

Purchase  large  chestnuts,  selecting  them  with  great  care.  Shell 
and  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  them  stand  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  the  brown  skin  and  cover  them  with  boiling  wate**  and  let 
them  simmer  thirty  minutes.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar  and  one  cup  of  water,  add  the  chestnuts  and  let  them  cook  slowly 
until  they  begin  to  look  clear.  Take  them  out  and  let  them  stand  one 
by  one  on  a  flat  sieve  over  night.  In  the  morning  take  one  pound  of 
granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water,  stir  over  a  fire  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  boil  until  the  syrup  hairs  and  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  take  from  the  fire  and  beat,  dip  the  chestnuts  in  the  mix- 
ture and  put  them  on  greased  paper  to  dry.  lb 

JP^^-The  cook  will  find  something  interesting  on  page  32. 

Miss  Waldo  (of  Boston)— "I  do  love  Swineburne.  His  melody  is  sc— so  melodi- 
ous." 

Miss  Lakefront  (of  Chicago)— "Yes,  and  I  do  love  his  odes.    They  are  so  odious." 

— Phil-adelphia  Record. 


■Gentlemen  will  find   Chap-O-Lene  very  beneficial  applied  immediately 
after  shaving. 

How  to  be  happy,  see  page  32. 


40 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  C W 


THE  READY  FAMILY  SOAP  MAKER. 

LEWIS' 98%  LYE! 

Powdered  and  Perfumed. 

(PATENTED) 

The  strongest  and  purest  Lye  made.  Will 
make  the  best  Perfumed  Hard  Soap  in  20  min- 
utes without  boiling. 

The  best  water-softener  made.  The  best 
disinfectant. 

SOME  OF  THE  ADVANTAGES  OB- 
TAINED BY  USING  Lewis'  98  Per  Cent.  Pow- 
dered Lye  are : 

Unlike  other  Lye  it  is  packed  in  an  iron 
can  with  a  removable  lid,  easily  taken  off, 
thereby  saving  trouble  and  danger  (from  fly- 
ing particles).  It  being  a  fine  powder,  and 
the  lid  easily  removed,  the  contents  are  always 
ready  for  use.  A  teaspoonful  can  be  used  in 
scrubbing,  etc.,  and  the  lid  replaced,  saving 
the  balance.  With  other  Lyes  all  must  be 
used  quickly,  or  the  strength  is  gone.  Abso- 
lute purity.  The  best  soap  can  be  made  in 
from  10  to  20  minutes  with  this  Lye.  In  mak- 
ing soap  no  failure  is  possible  if  the  simple  directions  are  followed. 
One  can  is  equal  to  20  pounds  of  Waghing  Soda,  is  28  percent,  stronger 
and  will  saponify  one  pound  more  grease  than  any  other  preparation. 
One  teaspoonful  will  thoroughly  cleanse  waste  pipes,  sinks,  drains,  or 
closets,  and  is  invaluable  for  killing  insects,  etc. 

PENNA.  SALT  MFG.  CO. 


General  Agents, 


Philadelphia,  Pa. 


FOR  SALE    BY 

THE    WIENHOLD    DRUG    CO. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  41 


CREAMS  AND  ICES. 


|  VERY  family  should  possess  a  good  gallon  ice  cream  freezer.  A 
great  many  palatable  dishes  can  be  made  with  it  in  hot  weather. 
The  principla  feature  of  making  creams  and  ices  is  in  the  freez- 
ing. Itis  essential  to  have  the  ice  finely  crushed.  This  can  be  done  by 
first  breaking  it  up  into  coarse  pieces  and  putting  it  in  a  sack  made  of 
burlap  or  some  coarse  material  and  pounding  with  a  wooden  mallet  or 
an  ice  cracker.  Use  one  part  salt  to  three  parts  of  ice  ;  rock  salt  is  the 
best,  but  coarse  salt  will  do  the  work.  Salt  causes  the  ice  to  melt  rap- 
idly and  ice  in  changing  to  water  absorbs  a  great  deal  of  heat.  This 
makes  the  mixture  of  ice  and  salt  many  degrees  colder  than  the  ice 
alone.  The  outlet  to  let  out  the  water  should  be  near  the  top  of  the 
eezer.  Let  it  run  out  as  the  ice  melts,  do  not  drain  it  off.  Put  a 
layer  of  ice  in  the  bottom  of  the  freezer,  then  a  layer  of  salt  and  so  on 
until  the  freezer  is  full.  Always  have  the  ice  come  a  few  inches  above 
the  cream  in  the  can.  Let  the  cream  or  ice  stand  for  eight  or  ten  min- 
utes until  chilled,  turning  occasionally,  then  rapidly  and  continuously 
until  the  crank  begins  to  turn  hard,  and  you  can  turn  it  no  longer.  It 
requires  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  to  freeze  the  mixture. 
Remove  the  beater  and  handle,  pack  down  the  cream,  drain  off  some  of 
the  water,  put  in  a  fresh  layer  of  ice  and  salt  and  cover  with  an  old 
sack  or  piece  of  carpeting  until  ready  to  serve.  Cream  is  better  to 
stand  an  hour  or  so  before  serving.  The  cream  can  be  removed  from 
the  can  and  packed  in  fancy  shapes  or  molds  ;  cover  the  mold  closely 
with  a  cloth  and  put  the  cover  on  carefully,  then  pack  with  fresh  ice 
and  salt  in  some  large  receptacle.  Pour  off  the  water,  dip  the  mold 
quickly  in  hot  water,  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  at  once.  There  are 
many  ways  of  making  cream.  Cream  is  the  essential  element  in  the  best 
ice  cream,  but  good  cream  can  be  made  without  cream  or  by  using  part 
cream. 

Ices  and  sherbets  are  made  of  fruit  juices,  sugar  and  water.  When 
made  of  fruit  juice,  water  and  sugar  they  are  called  ices.  When  the 
white  of  an  egg  or  a  little  gelatine  is  added  they  are  known  as  sherbets. 
When  cordials  or  liquors  are  added  to  lemon  and  orange  ices  they  are 

lc 

Child's  Cough  Cure  is  prepared  especially  for  children. 


42 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


JYTaijy  Recipes  fjereii} 
^aH  for  Milk    .... 

Successful   results   depend   largely    upon   good  mate- 
*^      rials ;  poor  milk  may  cause  entire  loss  of  your  labor. 


Therefore, 

Don't  Take  Chances!! 


In  all  recipes  providing  for  milk 
and  sugar  use  the  celebrated 

GAIL  BORDEN 
EAGLE  BRAND 

Condensed  flilk 

Always  uniform  in  character,  super- 
ior to  ordinary  milk ;  richer 
than  cream. 
If  your  recipe  requires  no  sweeten- 
ing then  use 

BORDEN'S 
PEERLESS  BRAND 

Evaporated  Cream 

A  very  rich  unsweeted  Condensed  Milk 
available  for  every  purpose  for  which  ordi- 
nary milk  is  used.  It  gives  better  and 
more  uniform  results.  Directions  for  use 
on  label  of  can. 

Both  Brands  are  prepared  and 
Guaranteed  by  the 

NEW  YORK  CONDENSED  MILK  CO. 


FOR  SALE  BY  THE   WEINHOLD    DRUG   CO- 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


called  punches.  When  a  variety  of  fruit  is  used  the  ice  is  known  as 
macedoines.  Sherbets  half  frozen  are  called  sorbets.  When  fresh 
fruit  cannot  be  obtained  use  the  juice  of  canned  fruit ;  fresh  fruit  is  of 
course  the  best.  To  make  ices  very  rich  the  juice  alone  with  sugar  is 
used.  Adding  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  sherbet  gives  it  a  creamy  consist- 
ency ;  some  use  a  spoonful  of  gelatine.  To  make  the  texture  of  the  ice 
fine  grained  boil  the  sugar  and  water  together ;  remove  the  scum  and 
strain.  Always  sweeten  your  creams  and  ices  very  sweet ,  more  than 
would  be  agreeable  if  not  frozen,  for  the  intense  coldness  deadens  the 
sense  of  the  taste.  When  lemons  are  used,  grate  off  some  of  the  rind, 
squeeze  out  the  juice  and  let  them  stand  awhile ;  this  gets  all  the  flavor 
of  the  lemon.  Put  in  the  sugar  so  as  to  let  that  dissolve  at  the  same 
time,  strain  and  prepare  the  ice  for  freezing. 

Keep  the  machinery  of  the  freezer  well  oiled.  Always  scald  out 
the  can  of  the  freezer  before  putting  it  away.  Dry  the  freezer,  and 
drain  and  dry  the  salt,  as  it  can  be  used  again.  A  substitute  for  a 
freezer  is  a  covered  tin  pail  placed  in  a  wooden  bucket :  pack  the  space 
around  the  pail  with  the  ice  and  salt.  Remove  cover  and  stir  the  cream 
from  the  sides  occasionally  until  stiff. 

Plain  Ice  Cream. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  cream.  Beat  two  eggs  very 
light,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt ;  mix  well,  and  add  to  the  boil- 
ing milk.  Turn  into  the  double  cooker  and  cook  awhile.  When  cold 
add  two  tablespoons  of  any  kind  of  flavoring.  Add  more  sugar  if  neces- 
sary, and  freeze  according  to  directions  given. 

Quick  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  and  flavor 
to  taste.  Let  the  sugar  stand  in  the  cream  awhile  so  as  to  dissolve. 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  in  the  bottom  of  the  can 
and  pour  in  the  cream.  To  make  it  nice  reserve  a  part  of  the  cream, 
whip  it  and  add  to  the  rest  when  it  is  partly  frozen.  It  will  take  at  least 
a  large  tablespoon  of  flavoring  extract. 

Neapolitan  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  cream,  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  flavoring.  Scald 
the  cream,  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Beat  whites 
stiff,  and  add  them  to  the  yolks.  Pour  in  the  cream  and  cook  awhile  in 
a  double  boiler.  Strain,  and  when  cold,  add  flavoring  and  freeze. 
With  this  recipe  can  be  made  any  variety  of  cream.  id 


_  "The  Swinburne  Printing  Company  would  like  to  see  you  when  you  have 
any  use  for  printer's  ink. 


44 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


OLDS' 
WONDERFUL    SALVE, 

FOR    MAN    AND    BEAST. 

It  is  the  greatest  discovery  of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  it  may  be  considered 


well  demonstrated  fact  that  it  will  cure  nine-tenths  of  all  local  sores  on  man  and 
beast.  Not  only  that,  but  it  does  wonders  in  curing  difficult  cases  of  Eczema,  Pu- 
trid Ulcers,  Old  Fever  Sores  of  long  standing,  well  located  Syphilitic  Sores,  and  many 
more  ailments  too  numerous  to  mention  here.  It  is  also  a  fact  that  any  party  who 
has  tried  this  great  Salve  once  will  never  be  without  it,  as  every  man,  woman  and 


CHILD 


will  testify.  For  animals  (especially  horses;,  it  is  a  positive  cure  for  new  or  old 
galls  or  sores  on  horses' necks  and  shoulders  where  there  are  no  pipes.  Apply  the 
Salve  freely  once  in  twenty-four  hours  in  the  evening  after  the  horse  has  cooled, 
and  use  no  water  on  sore.  It  is  also  a  certain  cure  for  Scratches  and  Grease-Heel 
when  taken  in  time.  It  is  also  well  known  by  those  engaged  in  dairy  business  that 
it  is 


FOUND 


to  be  a  fact  that  when  this  Salve  is  kept  on  hand  the  cows  will  not  kick,  for  three  ap- 

J>lications  will  make  the  animal  perfectly  gentle.  This  great  Salve  is  kept  constant- 
y  on  hand  and  for  sale  by  Prof.  J.  P.  OLDS.  Every  box  guaranteed  to  give  entire 
satisfaction  or  the  money  will  be  refunded. 

N.  B.— All  persons  who  keep  this  wonderful  Salve  on  hand,  and  who  use  it 
freely  before  they  are 


DEAD 


are  considered  safe,  and  in  a  favorable  way  of  becoming  sound,  for 


The  greatest  thing  on  all  creation, 
Is  a  Salve  that  heals  the  nation. 
So  now,  my  friends,  if  Sores  you  have, 
Be  sure  to  use  this  wonderful  Salve. 

So  call  on  J.  P.  here  in  town, 
Where  at  all  times  he  may  be  found. 
Where  a  free  test  you  all  can  have, 
Of  this  most  wondrous  healing  Salve. 

J.  P.  Olds  we  must  confess, 
Relieves  mankind  of  much  distress. 
His  treatment  is  so  very  mild, 
It  will  not  harm  the  smallest  child. 


Ho!  every  one  that  hath  a  doubt, 
Just  try  one  box  and  you'll  find  out. 
Its  healing  power  will  make  you  shout, 
As  sure  as  spots  grow  on  a  trout. 

I'm  sure  enough  has  now  been  said, 
If  no  one  has  been  found  dead, 
So  come  along  and  get  some  more 
Of  this  great  Salve  for  every  sore- 


That  man  and  beast  is  heir  2, 

For  it  cures  nine-tenths  of  all  the  sores, 

And  that  is  what  I'll  swear  2. 


Price  per  Ounce  Box,  25  cents.      ASK  YOUR  DRUGGIST  FOR  IT. 

J.  P.  OLDS,  Manufacturer  and  Proprietor,  1409  E.  28th  St.,  Minneapolis. 

Always  on  hand  and  for  sale  at  wholesale  and  retail  by 

THE  WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  45 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Take  five  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate,  rub  smooth  in  one  pint 
of  milk ;  add  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  two  cups  of  sugar.  Beat  well 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens .  When  cold  flavor  with  a 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Put  in  a  freezer,  and  when  it  begins  to  set  add  a 
quart  of  rich  cream.  A  cup  of  preserved  peaches  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  added  when  the  cream  is  almost  frozen,  makes  a  delicious  cream. 

Fruit  Frappies. 

Line  a  fancy  mold  with  any  nice  rich  vanilla  flavored  cream.  Fill 
the  center  with  fresh  berries,  or  peaches,  apricots  or  pears  cut  in  slices. 
Cover  with  ice  cream.  Put  in  a  bucket  and  pack  with  ice  and  salt. 
Let  it  stand  for  an  hour.  Any  kind  of  berries  can  be  used.  Straw- 
berries are  the  most  delicious.     If  you  have  not  fresh  fruit  use  canned. 

Frozen  Custard. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  add  one  cup 
of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  and  beat  well.  Place  in  a  double  cooker,  and 
cook  until  creamy.  Cool  and  flavor  to  taste.  This  can  be  made  much 
richer  by  adding  a  cup  of  cream  when  the  custard  is  partly  frozen. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

Use  any  recipe  for  cream.  Neapolitan  ice  cream  is  the  best.  Grate 
some  of  the  rind  of  a  lemon.  Squeeze  out  the  juice.  Be  careful  not  to 
have  any  of  the  rind  and  seeds,  as  they  are  apt  to  give  a  bitter  flavor. 
Strain  and  mix  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  until  clear,  and  stir  into 
the  cream  just  before  freezing. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

Take  one  quart  of  strawberries  and  sprinkle  a  large  cup  of  sugar 
over  them.  Mash,  and  let  them  stanct  an  hour.  Put  through  a  sieve 
as  long  as  the  juice  and  pulp  will  come.  Put  the  pulp  in  a  pan  and 
pour  on  one  cup  of  milk.  Strain  through  a  cloth.  Add  to  this  one 
quart  of  cream,  and  make  it  very  sweet.  Scald  the  cream  and  dissolve 
the  sugar  in  it.  The  strawberries  can  be  mashed  and  poured  into  a  quick 
ice  cream  when  it  is  partly  frozen.  Canned  strawberries  can  be  used 
in  place  of  fresh  ones. 

Raspberry  Ice  Cream. 

Make  exactly  as  the  above  recipe  says,  using  raspberries  in  place 
of  strawberries.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  greatly  improves  it.  Easpberries 
are  apt  to  be  too  sweet.  le 

fD^.Caswell'8  Pectoral  Balsam  is  a  pertect  cougn  cure. 


46  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Banana  Ice  Cream. 

Peel  six  ripe  bananas,  remove  the  dark  seeds  and  the  dark  line  in 
the  centre.  Rub  the  pulp  through  a  strainer  and  add  sugar  to  make  it 
very  sweet.  A  little  lemon  juice  improves  it.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
put  in  any  ice  cream,  made  from  the  preceding  recipes,  when  partly 
frozen,  or  make  one  as  follows  :  One  quart  of  cream,  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  flavor  to  taste.    Prepare  as  in  quick  ice  cream. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. 

Take  a  dozen  large,  ripe  freestone  peaches,  pare  and  chop ;  add  a 
few  of  the  stone  meats.  Add  large  cup  of  sugar  to  the  peaches  and  let 
them  stand  awhile.  Wash  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  and  stir  in  any 
kind  of  ice  cream.  The  peaches  can  be  used  without  putting  them 
through  a  strainer. 

Apricot  Ice  Cream. 

Take  a  quart  of  apricots,  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  let  them  stand 
awhile ;  then  rub  the  pulp  through  a  sieve.  Scald  one  quart  of  ^ream 
and  add  one  cup  of  sugar  to  it ;  cool  and  put  in  a  freezer.  Add  the 
beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  the  apricot  pulp.  Freeze  according  to 
directions. 

Maraschino  Ice  Cream. 

Make  a  Neapolitan  ice  cream,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  almond 
flavoring.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  three  spoonfuls  of  maraschino 
over  the  cream. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream. 

Shell,  blanch  and  pound  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  pistachio 
nuts,  add  half  a  cup  of  almond  meats  chopped  and  pounded  to  a 
paste.  Make  a  plain  ice  cream  or  any  kind,  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  and  almond  mixed,  and  add  the  nuts  and  almonds.  Freeze 
as  usual.  The  nuts  can  be  used  alone  without  the  almonds,  or  use  the 
almonds  alone  and  call  it  almond  ice  cream.  Pistachio  ice  cream  can 
be  colored  the  desired  shade  by  using  spinach  coloring. 

Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream. 

Make  a  quick  ice  cream,  flavor  with  a  little  Madeira  or  any  rich 
wine.  Take  a  mixture  of  candied  fruit,  using  plums,  cherries,  pears, 
strawberries  and  apricots,  about  a  pound  in  all.  Cut  up  fine  and  add 
to  the  cream  when  partly  frozen.  if 

"Your  husband  is  so  magnetic  a  man,"  said  the  visitor.  "I  know  it,"  responded 
the  wife.  ,lI  fouud  a  steel  hairpin  sticking  to  his  coat  collar  the  other  day."— Wash- 
ington Star. 


'High   class   printing,  engraving  and  embossing  at  9-11-13    Washington 
avenue.north. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  47 


Hickory  Nut  Ice  Cream. 

Take  a  pint  of  hickory  nut  kernels,  pick  over  carefully,  pound  in 
a  mortar.  Put  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  over  the  fire  without  water, 
stir  until  browned ;  add  a  little  water  to  dissolve  it,  add  it  to  the  nuts. 
Take  one  quart  of  cream  and  sweeten  one  teacup  and  a  half  of  ice 
cream,  add  the  nut  paste  and  freeze. 

New  York  Ice  Cream. 

Take  one  quart  of  cream,  one  teacup  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  a  table- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  pour  the  boiling  cream 
on  them ;  put  over  the  fire  for  a  minute.  Freeze.  This,  molded  with 
chocolate  and  lemon  ice  cream,  is  very  nice. 

Nut  Ice  Cream. 

Take  filberts,  chestnuts  or  English  walnuts ;  American  walnuts, 
hickory  nuts  and  pecans  can  be  used.  Shell,  blanch  if  necessary ;  chop 
or  pound  to  a  paste,  and  stir  in  any  plain  ice  cream.  In  using  pecans 
avoid  getting  any  of  the  puckery  substance  which  adheres  to  the  meat. 

Fruit  Cream. 

One-half  can  of  apricots,  three  bananas,  three  oranges,  three  cups 
of  sugar,  two  lemons  and  three  cups  of  water.  Prepare  the  fruit  as 
given  in  the  other  recipes.  Pour  on  the  water  and  sugar,  let  it  stand 
awhile.  Put  all  the  pulp  through  a  strainer,  add  more  sugar  if  necessary. 
Mix  with  the  fruit  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  or  one  pint,  and  freeze.  This  is 
delicious.  If  canned  fruit  is  used,  rub  through  a  strainer  and  add  one 
quart  of  whipped  cream.  For  canned  fruit  use  peaches,  apricots, 
cherries,  strawberries,  etc. 

Nesselrode  Pudding:. 

One-half  a  pint  of  shelled  almonds,  one  pint  of  shelled  chestnuts, 
a  pint  of  canned  pineapple.  Boil  the  chestnuts  half  an  hour  and  pound 
to  a  paste  ;  blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  the  same  as  the  chestnuts ; 
boil  the  pineapple  with  one  pint  of  water  and  one  pint  of  sugar  twenty 
minutes.  Add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  well  beaten,  put  in  a  dish  of 
boiling  water  and  beat  until  it  thickens.  Add  the  nuts  and  half  a 
pound  of  French  candied  fruit  cut  up  fine,  to  one  pint  of  cream.  Mix 
with  the  cooked  mixture.  Flavor  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Freeze 
and  mold  the  same  as  ice  cream.  ig 

A  judge  in  Ohio  Has  sentenced  a  man  to  be  hanged  before  daybreak.  This 
may  not  be  cruel  or  unusual  punishment  in  the  case  of  a  farm-hand,  but  it  would 
be  rough  on  most  other  citizens  who  do  not  care  to  have  their  sleep  broken.— Buffalo 
Express. 

tt^L&iieB  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  an  indispensable  article  for  the  toilet 


48 


THE   WETNHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


BURNISHINE. 

THE  MOST  MARVELOUS  METAL  POLISH  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Its  Action   is  Wonderful.    Will  produce  a  most 

Brilliant  Luster  to  Brass,  Copper,  Zinc, 

Steel,  Tin,   Bronze,  Cold,  Silver 

and  all  Metals. 


Half    a    Dozen 
Rubs  and  the 

Article  is 

Handsomely 

Burnished. 


Will  not  injure 
Gold  or  Silver 
and  is  ex- 
cellent 
for  polishing 
household  arti- 
cles. 


Will  restore 
burnt  or  rusty- 
nickel  on  stoves 
to  its  original 
luster. 


Warranted 
Strictly  not  to 
Contain  Acids. 


BURNISHINE 

will  not  soil 
your  hands  or 
leave  deposits 
in  corners  of 
the  metal,  like 
paste  polish 
does. 


Beware  of  imi- 
tations put  up 
in  packages 
similar  to  ours. 


Put  up  in 
4  oz.  Bottles. 
Half  Pint  Cans. 
One  Pint  Cans. 
Quart  Cans. 
Half  Gal.  Cans. 
One  Gal.  Cans. 


J.  C  PAUL  &  CO.,  Sole  Mnfrs. 
CHICAGO,   ILL 


OFFICE: 
121  Lake  Street 


FACTORY: 
414-1416  Roscoe  Street. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  49 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Make  two  quarts  of  rich  boiled  custard,  add  two  tablespoons  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  milk.  Add  to  the  custard  and 
when  it  is  just  beginning  to  freeze  add  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pint 
fruit  preserves,  one  quart  of  whipped  cream.  Almonds  and  grated 
cocoanut  make  the  pudding  nice  but  can  be  left  out. 

Lemon  Ice. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  juice  of  half  a  dozen 
lemons  grate  off  some  of  the  rind,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  pour  the 
water  hot  on  the  lemons.  Strain ;  and  add  the  sugar ;  when  cold  freeze 
the  same  as  cream,  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  you 
have  lemon  sherbet. 

Orange  Sherbet. 

Make  the  same  as  lemon,  using  ten  oranges  and  the  whites  of  six 
eggs.    The  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons  greatly  improve  it. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

Take  one  pint  of  fresh  or  one  can  of  grated  pineapple.  If  a  fresh 
pineapple  is  used  it  will  take  one ;  pare,  dig  out  the  eyes  and  reject 
the  hard  core,  chop  or  grate ;  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  water 
and  one  lemon ;  soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  and  then  dis- 
solve in  boiling  water,  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  freeze.  The 
egg  can  be  omitted  ;  a  little  orange  juice  and  pulp  improves  the  flavor. 
Use  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

One  can  of  grated  pineapple,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  water ;  pour  the  juice  from  the  cans  in  a  bowl,  put 
the  fruit  with  half  the  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes ;  put  the  sugar 
in  the  remainder  of  the  water  and  boil ;  rub  the  cooked  pineapple 
through  a  sieve  and  add  the  boiling  syrup.  Cook  a  few  minutes  longer, 
add  the  juice  and  cool  and  freeze. 

Raspberry  Sherbet. 

One  pint  of  berry  juice,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  water,  juice 
of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  ;  mash  and  put  the  berries 
through  a  sieve,  add  sugar  and  gelatine  already  dissolved  and  freeze. 
In  place  of  the  gelatine  use  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs- 

Strawberry  Sherbet. 

Make  this  the  same  as  raspberry,  using  a  little  more  sugar.  If 
canned  fruit  is  used  use  half  as  much  sugar.  lb 


50  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


KNOWLEDGE 

Brings  comfort  and  improvement  and 
tends  to  personal  enjoyment  when 
rightly  used.  The  many,  who  live  bet- 
ter than  others  and  enjoy  life  more,  with 
less  expenditure,  by  more  promptly 
adapting  the  world's  best  products  to 
the  needs  of  physical  being,  will  attest 
the  value  to  health  of  the  pure^  liquid 
laxative  principles  embraced  in  the 
remedy,  Syrup  of  Figs. 

Its  excellence  is  due  to  its  presenting 
in  the  form  most  acceptable  and  pleas- 
ant to  the  taste,  the  refreshing  and  truly 
beneficial  properties  of  a  perfect  lax- 
ative ;  effectually  cleansing  the  system, 
dispelling  colds,  headaches  and  fevers 
and  permanently  curing  constipation 
It  has  given  satisfaction  to  millions  and 
met  with  the  approval  of  the  medical 
profession,  because  it  acts  on  the  Kid- 
neys, Liver  and  Bowels  without  weak- 
ening them  and  it  is  perfectly  free  from 
every  objectionable  substance. 

Syrup  of  Figs  is  for  sale  by  all  drug- 
gists in  50  cent  bottles,  but  it  is  man- 
ufactured by  the  California  Fig  Syrup 
Co.  only,  whose  name  is  printed  on  every 
package,  also  the  name,  Syrup  of  Figs, 
and  being  well  informed,  you  will  not 
accept  any  substitute  if  offered, 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  51 

Frozen  Strawberries. 

Take  two  quarts  of  fresh  strawberries,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  water ;  boil  sugar  and  water  together,  add  the  strawberries 
and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  cool  and  when  frozen,  add  one  pint  of  whipped 
cream.  This  makes  a  delicious  dessert.  If  canned  strawberries  are 
used,  use  half  as  much  sugar  and  do  not  cook. 

Frozen  Raspberries. 

Prepare  the  same  as  strawberries ;  when  cold  add  the  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  freeze  ;  add  the  whipped  cream.  Any  kind  of  fruit  or 
berries  can  be  prepared  in  this  way. 

Currant  or  Cherry  Ice. 

Take  one  pint  of  currant  and  cherry  juice,  add  one  pint  of  water 
and  one  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  sugar  and  water  together,  then  add  the 
fruit  juice,  strain  and  freeze  ;  add  more  sugar  if  one  likes  it  very  sweet. 

Bonanza  Punch. 

Beat  two  eggs  light  and  creamy,  add  two  tablespoons  of  sugar 
and  beat  again ;  add  two  tablespoons  of  wine  or  brandy  and  one  cup  of 
cream  or  milk.    Put  in  a  freezer  and  turn  until  half  frozen. 

Roman  Punch. 

Take  the  juice  and  rind  of  five  lemons,  two  large  cups  of  sugar  and 
one  quart  of  water.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together,  add  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  the  lemons  ;  strain ;  through  a  cloth  and  flavor  with 
half  a  cup  of  good  rum.  Brandy  can  be  used.  The  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  make  it  smooth  and  creamy. 

Claret  Punch. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  Eoman  punch.  Use  a  little  more  sugar 
and  one-half  a  pint  of  good  claret ;  more  can  be  added  if  desired. 

Wine  Punch. 

Half  lemon  and  half  orange  juice,  flavored  with  any  kind  of  nice 
wine,  makes  a  nice  punch.     Sweeten  to  taste.  u 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Shiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferes.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.  Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 
"Called  down"— The  feathers  on  an  eider  duck.— Chicago  Record. 


52  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


WfE  ALWAYS  RECOfiriEND     :     :     : 

BROM0 
SELTZER 

FOR  HEADACHE, 

Because  it  INVARIABLY  Cures 
all  kinds  of 

Headaches,  Hmm 

Neuralgia, 

Nervousness 

AND 

Nervous 
mmmm  JJyspepsia. 

Prices  10,  25  and  50  cents,  at  all  of  our  Stores. 
YOUR  ORDERS  SOLICITED. 

"WeinliolcL  Drug  Co., 

MINNEAPOLIS,  MINN. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  53 


CREAMS   AND    CUSTARDS. 

(OR  creams  and  custards,  beat  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of  the 
[K  eggs  separately.  Use  an  earthen  bowl.  When  gelatine  is  used, 
soak  in  a  little  cold  water  for  awhile,  and  dissolve  in  the  hot 
mixture  just  after  it  is  removed  from  the  stove.  To  make  a  good  boiled 
custard  the  rule  is,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk,  and  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  or  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar  to  every  quart  of 
milk.  Always  heat  the  milk  in  a  double  cooker,  then  add  the  sugar, 
and  lastly  the  eggs.  This  keeps  it  from  curdling.  Flavor  when  cool. 
Use  eggs  that  are  strictly  fresh,  as  nothing  will  taste  so  quickly  in  a 
cream  as  a  packed  egg.  In  baking  custards,  bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven  until  firm  in  the  centre.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  the  custard  will 
turn  to  whey.  The  only  spices  to  be  used  must  be  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg. The  best  charlotte  russe  is  made  of  well  whipped  cream  as  a 
filling.  A  great  many  people  use  gelatine.  Cream  intended  for 
whipping  should  be  first  chilled  on  the  ice,  and  sweetened  after  it 
is  partly  whipped.  Use  an  egg  beater.  Flavor  thelast  thing.  If  the 
cream  does  not  whip  well  add  the  white  of  an  egg  and  whip  with  it. 
Do  not  whip  it  too  long  or  it  will  turn  to  butter.  Gelatine  is  put  up  in 
two-ounce  packages.  When  the  recipe  calls  for  half  a  package  one 
ounce  should  be  used.  One  pint  of  cream  will  make  three  times 
as  much  whipped  cream. 

Sherry  Cream. 

One  pint  of  rich  cream,  one  cup  of  sherry  wine,  one  cup  of  lemon 
(grated  rind  and  juice),  one  cup  of  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
light.  Whip  the  cream,  add  eggs  and  wine.  Serve  in  glasses  with 
the  froth  of  the  cream  on  top. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar.  Place  the  bowl  containing  the  cream  in  cold  water,  whip  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Skim  off  the  froth  and  strain.  Whip  again  and  repeat  it. 
Line  a  pudding  dish  with  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake,  or  dry  lady  fingers. 
Cover  with  the  cream,  and  put  pieces  of  currant  or  wine  jelly  on  top. 
Put  in  a  cold  place  until  ready  to  serve.  lj 

High  class  printing  and  engraving.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 


54 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


*42!S,CUTs  AND  ALL  FLESH  WO^ 


mm 

THE  GREAT 

HORSE 

AND 

CATTLE 
REMEDY. 


COLE'S  VETERINARY  CARBOLISALVE 

Is    a  Perfect  Remedy   for   all   abrasions  of  the  skin  and 
diseases  of  the  Feet  of  Horses  and  Cattle. 

It  heals  sores  quickly  and  permanently,  and  is  the  only  remedy  that 
invariably  renews  the  hair  its  original  color. 

It  toughens  the  feet,  keeps  the  frog  soft  and  healthy  and  is  the 
best  hoof  grower  known. 

It  will  8ure  any  case  of  Scratches,  Speed  Grack  or  Bracked  Heel. 

This  preparation  contains  no  animal  fats,  is  not  affected  by  ex- 
posure to  the  atmosphere,  and  will  never  become  rancid.  It  will  not 
gum  the  collar  or  pads. 

Flies  will  never  trouble  a  sore  upon  which  it  is  used. 

Cole's  Veterinary  Carbolisalve  is  used  and  indorsed  by  the  lead- 
ing horsemen  and  stockmen  of  this  country. 

Large  Cans,  $1.00.         Small  Cans,  50  cents. 

J.  W.  COLE  &  CO.,  Sole  Proprietors, 

Black  JRiver  Falls,  Wis.,  U.  S.  A. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  55 

Charlotte  Russe 

Take  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  and  dissolve  in  half  a  cup  of  of  boil- 
ing milk  ;  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  thick  cream  whipped  to  a  froth.  Mix  the 
gelatine,  sugar  and  whipped  cream,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Line 
a  mold  with  slices  of  spongecake.  Put  a  layer  of  jelly  over  the  cake. 
Cover  with  the  cream  and  put  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  A 
cup  of  wine  can  be  added  for  extra  flavoring.  If  wine  is  used,  use 
double  the  amount  of  gelatine. 

Whipped   Cream. 

Place  a  pint  of  cream  on  the  ice  until  it  is  chilled  through. 
Whip  with  an  egg-beater  until  it  froths.  Skim  off  the  froth  on  a 
sieve,  strain  and  return  to  the  bowl.  Whip  until  the  cream  is  stiff. 
If  it  does  not  whip  well,  add  the  white  of  an  egg.  This  can  be 
served  sweetened  and  flavored,  with  baked  apples,  fresh  fruit  or  jelly. 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  one  cupful  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a 
box  of  gelatine,  one  square  of  chocolate.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  of 
the  milk.  Melt  the  chocolate  in  two  tablespoons  of  water  and  stir  un- 
til glossy ;  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  heated  to  the  boiling  point. 
Add  gelatine.  Strain  and  add  the  sugar.  Put  in  a  cool  place  and  beat 
until  it  thickens.  Add  the  pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth, 
sweetened  and  flavored  a  little. 

Orange  Cream. 

One  pint  of  cream,  juice  of  three  oranges  and  a  little  of  the 
grated  rind,  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  ounce  of 
gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Grate  the  rind 
and  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  oranges  in  the  gelatine.  Strain,  and  add 
the  sugar.  Take  half  the  cream  and  put  it  in  a  double  boiler ;  add  the 
yolks  to  the  milk.  Stir,  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  the  gela- 
tine. When  it  begins  to  cool  add  the  orange  juice  and  sugar.  Beat 
and  add  the  remainder  of  the  cream.  Put  in  molds  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.  lk 

Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

A  Chicago  school-teacher  favors  the  readers  of  a  current  magazine  with  his 
views  on  "What  a  Daily  Newspaper  Might  Be  Made."  In  the  vernacular,  it  ap- 
pears he  would  make  a  monkey  of  it.— Chicago  Times. 


__  'Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction  or  money 
refunded. 

I^F-Don't  skip  page  32,  as  it  contains  something  of  interest  to  you. 


56  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


■«fc   ****************  AAA:*r  *****jjt***********j 

:  SPECIAL    FOR  LADIES. 


PIMPLES    AND    ROUGHNESS    CURED. 
A  Soft  Velvety  Skin  and  Clear  Complexion. 


HEALTH,  ♦  TONE,  *  VIGOR. 


ALICE  J.   SHAW,  of  Her  Majesty's  Theatre,  Haymarket,  London,  says: 
"I  have  used  Microbe  Killer  for  a  considerable  time  and  found  it  the 
finest  tonic  the  world  has  ever  produced.    And  it  has  no  equal,  and  I  would 
not  he  without  it  for  many  times  its  cost." 

A.  H.  CHAMBERLAIN,  (Dentist  to  the  Court  of  Italy),  53  Harley  St., 

Cavendish  Square,  W.  London,  says: 

"I  have  thoroughly  tested  the  Radam  Microbe  Killer  as  a  tonic  and 
cleanser,  and  found  it  the  best  I  have  ever  seen;  also  a  splendid  thing  for 
the  teeth." 

Dr.  LESLIE  E.  KEELEY,  says: 

"  The  ferment  of  the  microbe  in  the  body  underlies  all  diseases.  A  cure 
will  be  found  in  the  discovery  of  some  single  remedy  which  will  destroy  the 
microbes." 

RADAMS  MICROBE  KILLER  IS  THE  GORE. 


SICK   III. tit. IA '.'MIX,    BJICKJMCMIE, 

All  those  irregularities  known  as  female 
trouble  are  cured  by 

rhdhrts  imcROBE  killer, 

A  Pleasant,  Refreshing-  and  Healthful  Drink. 


OFFICES- 

325  Hennepin  Ave.,  18  East  4th  Street, 

MINNEAPOLIS.  ST.  PAUL. 

49*  Pamphlet  and  special  circular  for  Ladies  given  or  sent  on  application. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  57 

Peach  Bavarian  Cream. 

A  can  of  best  peaches,  mash  -and  rub  them  through  a  sieve. 
Put  them  in  a  saucepan  and  let  them  cook  slowly  a  few  minutes. 
Add  an  ounce  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  half  cup  of  water.  Add  a  cup  of 
sugar.  Eemove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  it  commences  to  thicken. 
Stir  in  a  cup  of  cream.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Pineapple  cream 
can  be  made  the  same  way  by  using  a  can  of  pineapple.  Rub  as  much 
of  the  pineapple  as  you  can  through  a  seive.  A  pint  of  cream  can  be 
added  in  place  of  a  cupful.  The  pineapple  should  be  chopped  fine  be- 
fore it  is  put  on  to  cook  in  the  water.  Pineapple  makes  a  delicious 
cream.     Use  pears  and  apricots  in  the  same  way. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

Soak  two  tablespoons  of  tapioca  in  one-half  teacup  of  milk.  Heat 
a  quart  of  milk,  add  half  a  teacup  of  sugar  and  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs;  add  tapioca  and  stir  all  together;  boil  a  few  minutes, 
turn  into  a  dish  and  spread  on  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ; 
flavor  the  cream  with  vanilla.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  cook  the  tapioca 
in  the  water  it  is  soaked  in  until  clear  before  adding  it  to  the  milk. 
This  is  nice  poured  over  stale  slices  of  sponge  cake,  and  served  with 
pieces  of  jelly  laid  around  on  the  frosting. 

Blanc  Mange. 

Take  three  heaping  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  dissolve  in 
a  little  milk;  beat  three  eggs,  add  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  heat  one 
quart  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  stir  in  the  starch  and  lastly  the  eggs 
and  sugar;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  pour  in  a  mold  and  serve  with 
sweetened  cream  flavored  with  vanilla ;  place  teaspoonful  of  jelly  on 
each  plate. 

Apple  Snow. 

Cook  six  tart  apples  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  cool  and  strain ; 
whip  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well,  add  to  the  apple  and  a  half  cup 
of  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  or  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a 
lemon,  beat  well  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  or  pour  on  a  custard 
and  serve  cold. 

Fruit  Blanc  Mange. 

Take  either  raspberries  or  strawberries  and  stew  and  strain  the 
juice ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  two  tablespoons 
of  cornstarch ;  when  cooked  so  that  it  is  thick  pour  in  molds  and 
serve  with  either  cream  and  sugar  or  whipped  cream.  11 

J3^"If  you  are  going  to  be  married  read  page  32. 


58* 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


fin  Old  Family  Recipe. 

FIFTY  YEARS  STANDING. 
ECZEMA,    SALT    RHEUM,    ERYSIPELAS,    PIM- 
PLES, AND  ALL  SCROFULOUS 
ERUPTIONS. 
Cured.   Toy 


SKIN  SUCCESS 


TRADE     MARK      REGISTERED) 


THIS  Ointment  is  an  old  family  remedy  that  has  been 
selling    quietly    for    over    50    years.        During    this 
period  it  has  been  thoroughly  tested  in  thousands  of 
cases    of    SKIN    diseases,    so    that    now    IT    is    positively 
GUARANTEED  to  cure. 

Every  Doctor  or  Druggist  in  the  country  is  politely 
CHALLENGED  to  produce  a  case  that  "SKIN-SUCCESS" 
OINTMENT  cannot  cure. 

Trial  size  box,  25  cts.    Large  box,  75  cts.    At  all  drug-gists,  or  sent 
by  mail  upon  receipt  of  price. 


« 


Skin-Success^  Soap  for 


THIS     SOAP      contains 
pure  Ext.  Witch  Hazel. 
Cures  Dandruff  and  re- 
lieves   all     Irritation     and 
Chafing.     Grand  for  Sham- 
pooing and  general  toilet  use 
25  cents  a  cake. 


THE  MORGAN  DRUG  CO. 

1512  and  1514  Atlantic  Ave,,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  59 

Orange  Souffle. 

A  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar ;  grate  in  a 
little  of  the  orange  peel  for  a  flavor,  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with 
the  sugar,  pour  the  boiling  milk  over  this  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  it  thickens ;  peel  four  sweet  oranges,  take  out  the  seeds  and  slice, 
put  in  a  pudding  dish  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  and  let  them 
stand  while  the  custard  is  cooling.  Pour  on  the  cold  custard  and  add 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  sweetened ;  brown  in  a  very  hot 
oven  or  under  the  blaze  in  the  oven  of  a  gas  range. 

Candied  Fruit  Cream. 

Soak  one-half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Chill  and  whip  one  pint  of  cream,  after  taking  off  the  froth  and  strain- 
ing, as  given  in  the  directions  for  whipped  cream ;  boil  what  is  left  in 
the  bowl  with  milk  enough  to  make  a  pint  in  all,  add  half  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  when  boiling  the  gelatine  strain  into  the  well  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs  ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  a  large  tablespoon  of  wine  ;  when 
this  thickens  add  the  whipped  cream,  stir  in  one  cup  of  mixed  French 
fruit.  Pour  in  a  mold  and  garnish  with  jelly.  Nuts  like  almonds  and 
pisthachio  can  be  added. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  a 
little  milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  grain  of  cayenne.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a  cup  of  grated 
cheese.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  cups  in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  as  soon  as  they  are  done  in  the  cups. 

Apple  Charlotte. 

Soak  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one-third  of  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Pour  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  on  it  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Cook 
apples  enough  to  make  a  pint  when  rubbed  through  the  sieve.  Pour  on 
the  gelatine  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Beat 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Beat 
well  and  pour  into  a  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake.  Serve 
either  with  whipped  cream  or  make  a  soft  custard  of  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs.  lm 


.Anything  from  a  calling  card  to  a  large  show  card  embossed  in  colors,  or 

from  a  circular  to  a  history  of  the  world,  can  be  produced  by  the  Swinburne  Printing 
Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 

An  authority  on  the  just  proportions  of  the  human  form,  divine  or  otherwise, 
says,  "The  ears  should  be  so  placed  as  not  to  be  higher  than  rhe  eyebrows  or  lower 
than  the  tip  of  the  nose."  People  who  are  dressing  for  a  party  Bhould  not  forget 
this.— Drake's  Magazine. 

.Caswell's  Blood  Cleaner  will  purify  the  blood. 


60 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


^^  yV  SUCCESSORS  TO  *  £/ 

RTAMW1TZ   &  SCHULPR  -* 


STAMWITZ  &  SCHULER, 


The  BEST  FLOUR 


Made  for  Family 
Use. 


FOR 

CLEARNESS 

IN 

COLOR 
RICHNESS 

IN 

TASTE, 

AND 

ABUNDANCE 

IN 

QUALITY, 

THERE  IS  NONE  LIKE 


PHCENIX  BEST 

"OR 


WHITE  LILY. 


These  Flours  Received  the  Gold  Medal  at  World's  Fair. 
All  Grocers  keep  them. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  61 

A  Nice  Dessert. 

Put  in  a  deep  bowl  pieces  of  stale  cake.  Cut  in  squares  or  strips. 
Cut  up  a  small  piece  of  preserved  citron  and  put  in  with  the  cake. 
Pour  a  little  cream  over  this  and  let  the  cake  soak  awhile.  Fill  the 
bowl  with  a  boiled  custard  and  on  top  either  place  whipped  cream  or 
the  whites  of  eggs.     Cover  with  bits  of  fruit  or  jelly  and  serve  cold. 

Cup  Custards. 

One  pint  of  milk,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  small  cup  of  sugar. 
Stir  together  and  pour  into  cups.  Set  the  cups  in  boiling  water  in  the 
oven.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  in  the  cups  with  a  slice  of  jelly  on 
top  or  a  little  dessicated  cocoanut  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  the  cream  in 
each  cup.  in 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Schiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.    Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

"I  want  a  realistic  work,"  she  said 

With  such  a  tender  look. 
The  wealthy  banker,  with  a  bow, 

Gave  her  his  pocket-book. 

—Detroit  Free  Press. 

f^JF-C  a  swell's  Pectoral  Balsam  cures  all  coughs,  colds  and  affections  of  the 
throat,  chest  and  luDgs. 

"What  is  the  lesson  taught  us  in  the  parable  of  the  seven  wise  virgins?"  asked  a 
Sunday-schoolteacher  of  his  pupils.  "1  hat  we  should  always  be  on  the  lookout 
for  a  bridegroom,"  said  the  smallest  girl  in  the  class.— Texas  Sittings. 


Every  business  man  can  profit  if  he  will  carefully  follow  the  recipe  on 
page  32. 

What  Blocked  the  Railroad. 

"Business  was  blocked  on  the  Sixth  Avenue  Elevated  for  nearly  an  hour 
this  morning." 

"What  was  the  matter— a  fire?" 

"No;  but  five  girls  stood  before  the  ticket-window  at  Fourteenth  street  while 
they  settled  which  of  them  should  pay  the  fare."— Truth. 

J^p-YouR  attention  is  respectfully  called  to  page  32. 

Prendergast  has  not  yet  announced  a  lecture  course,  but  if  this  foolery  of  in- 
sanity talk  geis  into  the  heads  of  jurors  we  may  yet  be  treated  to  a  sight  of  this 
choice  specien  informming  the  gaping  public  (for  consideration)''Why  I  Killed 
Carter  Harrison." — Elmira  Advertiser. 


__  *We  guarantee  our  work.  If  it  is  not  entirely  satisfactory  send  it  back; 
don't  use  it  up  and  then  ask  for  a  rebate,  as  you  won't  get  it.  We  don't  care  to 
deal  with  cranks.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

Dix— If  my  wife  asks  you  my  brand  of  cigars  between  now  and  Christmas, 
tell  her  these,  and  say— 
Dealer — Yes. 
Dix— Don't  charge  her  over  $1  a  box;  I'll  pay  the  balance.— Truth. 

J^^^Wedding  Invitations,  Announcements,   At  Home,  etc.    High  class  work 
produced  by  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


62  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Towle's  "Lo 


Absolutely  Pure 

and  •  • 
Full  Measure. 


Cabin" 
Maple 
Syrup. 


^CAA  offered  for  any  adulteration  found  in  this  brand  of 
90UU  Maple  Syrup. 

THE  TOWLE  SYRUP  CO., 

FAIRFAX,  VT.       ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


TOWLE'S 

Self-Raising  Griddle  caKe  Flour 

.  . . AND  .  .  . 

Towle's  Self-Raising  Buckwheat  Flour 

are  made  from  strictly  pure  material,  and  guaranteed  to  give  satis- 
faction, or  MONEY  REFUNDED.  Either  of  the  above  brands  are 
more  wholesome,  and  more  economical  to  the  consumer,  than  buying 
the  flour  in  bulk,  and  making  in  the  old-fashioned  way  of  raising  ovre 
night.  Bdth  of  the  above  are  prepared  and  ready  for  use  at  a  mo- 
ment's notice,  and  require  no  YEAST,  BAKING  POWDER  OR 
SALT.    Ask  your  grocer  for  the  above  brands  and  take  no  others. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  63 


DOUGHNUTS  AND  CRULLERS. 


tN  MAKING  doughnuts  never  mix  hard.  Using  eggs  prevents  them 
from  soaking  the  fat.  Roll  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with 
cookie  cutter  and  cut  out  the  center  with  some  round  article  about 
one-fourth  as  large.  An  iron  kettle  is  the  best  for  frying.  Use  best 
leaf  lard,  or  half  lard  and  the  drippings  from  beef  suet.  Cottosuet  is 
an  excellent  substitute  for  either.  When  the  fat  is  first  used  clarify 
with  slices  of  raw  potato.  Let  them  fry  for  a  few  minutes  and  then 
skim  them  out.  By  cooling  and  straining  the  fat  can  be  used  a  second 
time.  Have  the  fat  boiling  hot.  If  hot  enough  it  will  cease  to  bubble. 
Try  by  dropping  in  a  small  piece  of  your  dough ;  if  it  rises  in  a  few  sec- 
onds and  browns  on  the  under  side  quickly  it  is  just  right.  Put  in  the 
doughnuts  or  crullers  and  turn  as  they  rise  to  the  top  of  the  fat.  Fry 
a  light  brown  ;  try  with  a  steel  fork.  If  the  fork  comes  out  clean,  drain 
over  the  kettle  and  place  in  a  large  pan  a  short  distance  apart.  Sprinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  them  and  keep  in  a  stone  jar ;  this  keeps  them 
moist. 

Good  Doughnuts. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  melted,  or  take  equal 
parts  of  butter  and  lard,  cup  and  a  half  of  buttermilk,  or  sour  milk, 
level  teaspoon  of  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  ginger  and 
cinnamon,  one  egg.     Let  them  stand  for  couple  of  hours  and  rise. 

Raised  Doughnuts. 

One  half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed  (make 
this  a  small  half  cup),  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
yeast,  or  one-half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Mix  over 
night  and  keep  warm.  Cut  out  in  the  morning  and  let  them  rise  on  the 
board  for  an  hour. 

Doughnuts. 

One  egg,  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  pint  and  a  half  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  little 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg.     Mix  soft  and  fry  at  once.  lo 

The  place  to  get  high  class  printing  is  at  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


64  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Crullers. 

One  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
one  egg,  one-half  salt  spoon  of  salt,  one-half  salt  spoon  of  cinnamon  or 
mace.  Roll  quarter*  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  squares.  Make  three  or 
four  incisions  in  each  square ;  lift  by  taking  alternate  pieces  between 
the  finger  and  thumb ;  fold  together  slightly  in  the  middle  and  drop 
into  hot  fat,  and  fry  like  doughnuts. 

Crullers. 

Three  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  little  ginger  or  nutmeg. 

Wonders. 

One  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Roll  thin 
as  a  wafer  and  cut  with  a  large  cutter.  Serve  with  cream  or  maple 
syrup. 

Fried  Corn-meal  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  milk,  poured  boiling  hot  upon  one  cup  of  corn-meal ; 
add  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  little  salt.  Let  it  stand  all  night, 
then  add  two  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  flour.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Fried  Rye  Muffins. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  pinch  of  salt,  salt 
spoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  eggs.  Rye  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  drop  batter.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Fried  Flour  Muffins. 

One  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  salt  spoon  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.    Fry  like  doughnuts.  lp 


To  a  Lady  I  Know. 

Oh,  hearken,   I  pray,  to  this  little  rhyme, 

And  judge  of  its  pro  and  its  con : 
You  may  stop  the  clock,  but  the  wheel  of  time 

Rolls  surely,  cruelly  on!— Judge. 

The  lady  of  the  house  is  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 

He— Humph!  I  am  going  to  marry  money. 

She— Then  I  should  think  you  would  have  to  get  up  a  more  intimate  acquaint- 
ance with  it  than  you  have  at  present.— Truth. 

^^"Advertisers  are  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 

"This  child,"  said  the  clergyman,  who  was  about  to  Christen  Brown's  baby, 
"may  some  dav  make  a  noise  in  the  world." 

And  the  next  minute  when  Master  Brown  felt  the  cold  water,  the  good  man's 
prophesy.was  verefied  more  speedily  than  he  had  expected.— Truth. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  65 


EGGS. 


ET  me  say  at  the  start,  that  the  most  to  be  said  about  eggs  is, 
that  the  fresher  they  are  the  better  they  are  and  the  more 
wholesome.  Never  buy  eggs  the  freshness  of  which  you  have 
any  doubt.  If  eggs  appear  heavy  and  dark,  or  if  they  gurgle  when 
shaken,  they  are  bad.  When  eggs  are  put  in  a  vessel  to  cook,  if  they 
lie  on  their  sides  they  are  apt  to  be  good ;  but  if  they  stand  on  end 
and  float  on  top  of  the  water,  reject  them  at  once.  This  is  explained  by 
the  fact  that  the  shells  being  very  porous,  on  exposure  to  the  air  the 
water  inside  evaporates,  eggs  grow  lighter,  and  air  rushing  into  them 
to  take  the  place  of  the  water,  decomposition  takes  place.  Eggs  are  the 
most  nutritious  of  food.  Do  not  economize  in  the  use  of  them.  Hard 
boiled  and  fried  eggs  are  the  hardest  to  digest.  Eggs  with  dark  shells 
are  the  richer,  as  the  yolks  which  contain  the  nutriment  are  larger. 
Eggs  to  be  soft  require  three  minutes ;  hard,  five  minutes.  In  poach- 
ing' an  egg  add  a  little  vinegar.  This  keeps  the  white  of  the  egg 
from  spreading.  Eggs  are  prepared  in  an  unlimited  variety  of  styles. 
They  make  good  dishes  for  breakfast  and  lunch  and  are  indispensi- 
ble  in  cakes,  puddings  and  desserts.  Do  not  have  the  water  quite 
boiling  when  the  egg  is  first  put  in,  as  it  is  not  so  apt  to  crack  as  when 
the  water  is  boiling.  In  poaching  or  frying  an  egg,  first  break  them 
carefully  into  a  saucer  and  slip  them  gently  into  the  water  or  hot  fat. 
In  making  omelets  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

Put  the  eggs  in  a  pan,  cover  with  hot  water  and  let  them  stand 
about  ten  minutes  where  the  water  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Serve 
at  once,  as  they  soon  harden  in  the  shell,  or  put  them  on  in  cold  water 
and  when  the  water  boils  the  eggs  will  be  done.  If  the  eggs  are  to  be 
very  soft,  let  them  stand  in  the  hot  water  only  five  minutes. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs. 

Cook  the  eggs  twenty  minutes  in  water  below  the  boiling  point.  If 
the  yolk  is  cooked  ten  minutes  it  will  be  tough ;  if  cooked  twenty,  mealy 
and  easily  reduced  to  a  powder.  iq 


66 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


A  Skin  of  Beauty  is  a  Joy  Forever. 

DR.  T.  FELIX  GOURAUD'S 
ORIENTAL   CREAM 


OB 


MAGICAL  BEAUTIFIER 


Purifies  as  well  as 
Beautifies  the  Skin. 


No  other  Cosmetic 


will  do  it. 


Removes  Tan,  Pimples,  Freckles,  Moth-Patches, 
Rash  and  Skin  diseases,  and  every  blemish  on  beau- 
ty, and  defies  detection.  On  its  virtues  it  has  stood 
the  test  of  forty-three  years;  no  other  has;  and  is  so 
harmless  we  taste  it  to  be  sure  it  is  properly  made. 
Accept  no  counterfeit  of  similar  name.  The  distin- 
guished Dr.  L.  A.  Sayre,  said  to  a  lady  of  the  hautton 
(a  patient):  uAs  youladies  will  use  them, I  recommend 
1  Gouraud 's  Cream  as  the  least  harmful  of  all  the 
Skin  preparations."  One  bottle  will  last  six  months, 
using  it  every  day.  Also  Poudre  Subtile  removes  su- 
perfluous hair  without  injury  to  the  skin. 

FERD  T.  HOPKINS,  Prop'r,  37  Great  Jones  St., 
N.  Y. 

For  sale  by  all  Druggists  and  Fancy  Goods  Deal- 
ers throughout  the  U.  §.,  Canadas  and  Europe. 

Also  found  in  N.  Y.  Citv  at  R.  H.  Macy's,  Steam's,  Ehrich's,  Ridley's,  and  other 
Fancy  Goods  Dealers.  J0flF"  Beware  of  Base  Imitations.  $1,000  Reward  for 
arrest  and  proof  of  any  one  selling  the  same. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  67 

Dropped  Eggs. 

Break  the  eggs  one  by  one  in  a  saucer  and  slip  into  boiling  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  about  three.  Pour  off  the  water  and  take  out  care- 
fully, season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  little  bits  of  butter.  Serve  on 
slices  of  toast  or  on  pieces  of  broiled  ham.  Instead  of  pouring  off  the 
water,  if  you  have  any  more  to  cook  take  each  up  with  a  skimmer. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Break  the  eggs  in  hot  salted  water  for  two  minutes,  pour  off  the 
water  and  beat  the  eggs.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter. 
Serve  on  toast  at  once. 

Baked  Eggs. 

Put  six  eggs  in  a  dish  in  the  bottom  of  which  has  been  placed 
bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  them  three  tablespoons 
of  cream.     Set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

Ham  Omelet. 

Take  bits  of  either  boiled  or  fried  ham,  chop  fine.  Put  in  a  fry- 
ing pan  with  a  large  piece  of  butter.  Pour  over  the  ham  four  well 
beaten  eggs.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  all  together. 
Cook  until  brown,  and  turn  over  carefully  and  brown  on  the  other 
side. 

Scalloped  Eggs. 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Moisten  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 
in  a  little  butter  or  cream;  chop  fine  bits  of  ham,  chicken  or  fish; 
about  one  cup  in  all.  Remove  the  yolks  and  chop  the  whites.  Put  a 
layer  of  the  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  then  the  chopped  whites, 
minced  meat,  yolks  rubbed  to  a  powder,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
full ;  finish  with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Pour  over  it  a  pint  of  white 
sauce  or  stock  and  milk  enough  to  moisten  well.    Bake  until  brown. 

Scalloped  Eggs. 

Cover  a  buttered  dish  with  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Put 
each  egg  carefully  in  the  dish ;  about  six.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  butter  and  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  until 
the  crumbs  are  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Instead  of  using  a  large  dish  use 
cups,  and  prepare  the  eggs  in  the  same  way  by  dropping  one  egg  in 
each  cup.  lr 


•Use  Chap-O-Lene  for  all  roughness  of  the  skin. 
fflM  JZy^THE  lady  of  the  house  is  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 

■Ladies  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  an  indispensable  article  for  the  toilet. 


68 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


DRWJUl/ito 


% 


FOR    CLEANING    THE    TEETH. 

Contains  the  best  known  compositions  for  neutralizing  the  acids  of 
the  mouth,  preventing  deposits  on  the  teeth,  which  causes  them  to 
decay  and  become  loosened. 

The  loss  of  the  teeth  is  soon  followed  by  ill  health,  so  it  behooves 
everyone  to  properly  cleanse  the  teeth,  and  use  only  KING  BEE 
HONEY  CREAM  to  do  it. 

IT  WHITENS  THE  TEETH, 

IT  GIVES  HEALTH  TO  THE  GUMS, 

IT  PERFUMES  THE  BREATH. 

It  is  put  up  in  the  most  convenient  form  possible,  collapsible  metal 
tubes,  is  very  handy  and  economical  for  travelers. 

PRICE,    25   CENTS    PER    TUBE. 

FOR  SALE  BY  ALL  DRUGGISTS  THROUGHOUT  THE  CIVILIZED  WORLD. 


KING  BEE 


TOOTHACHE 


GUM. 


A  RELIABLE 

REMEDY 
GUARANTEED 

TO 
GIVE  RELIEF. 


FORMULA  FROM  THE  POPULAR  DENTAL  SURGEON,  DR.  W.  J.  HURD, 

St.  Paul,  formerly  of  Minneapolis. 
=  We  do  not  hesitate  to  recommend  this  article;  retails  for  |  O  CtS.  per  bottle. 
For  Sale  by  all  Druggists. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  69 

Omelet. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  separately,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
flour,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  cup  of  rich  milk.  Put  a  large 
piece  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  pour  in  your  mixture.  It  will  at  once- 
begin  to  bubble.  Slip  a  knife  under  it  and  raise  once  in  a  while  to 
keep  from  burning.  As  soon  as  the  eggs  begin  to  set  and  hold  to- 
gether, fold  over  and  shake  the  pan.  Slide  the  omelet  on  a  hot  platter 
and  serve  at  once.  It  will  take  from  three  to  five  minutes.  A  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley  or  a  little  grated  onion  can  be  added. 

Bread  Omelet. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  separately.  Take  two 
slices  of  bread  moistened  with  sweet  milk  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve, 
add  the  yolks  and  beat  well;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  little 
chopped  parsley,  ham  and  onion  juice  improves  it.  Bake  as  directed 
in  the  preceding  recipe.     Serve  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Corn  Omelet. 

Grate  six  ears  of  sweet  corn,  add  three  eggs,  a  little  flour  and  a 
small  cup  of  part  cream  and  milk.  Bake  in  an  oven  half  an  hour. 
Season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  pieces  of  butter. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Beat  six  eggs  light.  Put  a  large  piece  of  butter  in  a  pan  and 
when  hot  stir  in  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time,  Cook  about  three 
minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  toast  garnished 
with  slices  of  lemon ;   a  little  milk  can  be  added  to  the  beaten  eggs. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard.  Remove  the  shells  and  cut  the  whites  length- 
wise. Remove  the  yolks,  mash  them,  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  a 
little  onion  juice  and  a  little  potted  or  devilled  ham,  and  tongue  or 
minced  chicken ;  veal  or  lamb  may  be  used.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  chopped  parsley.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture  ;  press  the 
halves  together.  Fry  brown  in  hot  fat  or  sprinkle'  crumbs  over  them 
and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

Devilled  Eggs. 

Cook  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  yolks  and  mash  them 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  a  spoonful  of  but- 
ter, salt  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  and  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Mix  all  together  and  press  back 
into  the  whites.  Set  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
parsley.  is 


70  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

THE  GREAT  REMEDY  Ofm  CENTURY. 

SPENCERIAN 

W  BLOOD  PURIFIER 

Kidney  and  Liver  Cure. 


PUR?nEfl A  PURE  VEGETABLE  MEDICINEi 

.ilDNEY&LIVER         Has  been  before  the  public  for  the  past 
CURE  twenty  years.    Fifteen  thousand  bottles  have 

been  sold,  giving  satisfaction  in  every  case. 

Why  pay  out  your  money  for  trash  medicines  made  in 
the  East,  said  to  have  cured  some  one  in  Florida,  got  up  to 
make  money,  when  you  can  buy  Spencerian  Blood  Purifier, 
Kidney  and  Liver  Cure,  made  in  this  city,  warranted  to  cure 
all  diseases  named  on  the  label  and  bills,  and  recommended 
by  the  people  of  this  city  who  have  used  it? 

LIVER  AND  KIDNEY  COMPLAINTS,      R^^c^h, 

Salt  Rheum,  Boils,  Pimples,  Sore  Eyes,  Costiveness,  Diarrhoea, 
Dyspepsia,  Sick  Headache,  Coughs,  Malaria,  Diabetis,  Dropsy, 
Female  Weakness,  Impotency,  Seminal  Weakness,  Frequen, 
Urination,  Private  Diseases,  Piles,  Grippe,  Winter  Cholerat 
etc.     Price,  $1.00  per  Bottle ;  Six  for  $5.00. 

The  above  named  Diseases  are  warranted  cured  by  the  use  of  from  two  to  twenty 
bottles  of  medicine.    Try  it  and  if  not  satisfied  the  money  will  be  returned. 

Sold  by  the  Weinhold  Drug  Co.,  Price  reduced  to  2  bottles  for  $1.00- 

Spencerian  Lightning  Pain  Relief,  ^  piphthe^.  o^pv8^  Twt, 

Sick  Headache,  Asthma,  Catarrh,  Chills,  Cholera,  Cricks,  Cramps, 
Sprains,  Rheumatism,  Neuralgia,  and  all  kinds  of  pain.    Price,  25  cts. 

The  Weinhold  Driig  Co., 

Office:  239  First  Ave.  So.  MINNEAPOLIS,  HINN. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  71 


FROSTING. 

fARE  off  all  the  loose  edges  and  if  the  cake  is  browned  too  much 
pare  off  some  of  the  crust.  Dust  with  a  little  flour.  Always 
beat  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks 
and  place  in  the  ice  chest  so  they  will  cool  and  beat  readily.  Add 
your  pulverized  sugar  gradually,  and  flavoring  the  last  thing.  In  boiled 
frosting  boil  the  sugar  until  it  ropes  or  hairs  from  the  spoon  and  turn 
hot  upon  the  beaten  eggs ;  beat  until  cold. 

Boiled  Frosting. 

White  of  one  egg,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons of  hot  water.  Boil  water  and  sugar  and  pour  hot  on  the  well 
beaten  egg. 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  small 
cups  of  powdered  sugar.  Boil  the  sugar  with  four  tablespoons  of  water. 
When  all  dissolved  add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  scraped  or  grated 
chocolate  Pour_on  the  eggs  and  beat  until  cold.  This  will  be  enough 
for  the  filling,    of  a  three-layer  cake  and  for  the  top. 

Yellow  Frosting. 

Yolk  of  an  egg,  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  stiff  icing.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  or  wine. 

Hickory  Nut  Frosting. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  as  given  above  and  stir  in  one  cup  of 
chopped  hickory  nut  meats  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Spread  on  the  cake 
and  smooth  down  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water. 

Frosting. 

To  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  add  one  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Beat  well,  adding  the  sugar 
gradually.  it 


•Advertisers  are  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32, 

"I've  more  grit  than  you  have,"  said  the  cake  of  chalK  to  the  pound  of  sugar. 
"That's  all  right,"  replied  the  sugar,  "but  you  haven't  as  much  sand."— Truth. 


72  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Boiled  Almond  Frosting. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar  dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Boil  until  it 
ropes  from  the  spoon  and  pour  over  the  eggs  and  beat  until  cold.  Stir 
in  one-half  a  pound  of  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste,  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.    This  will  frost  three  cakes.  lu 

This  world  is  but  a  paradox. 

And  plainly  does  this  show 
In  the  fact  that  the  surest  "coming  man" 

Is  the  man  with  lots  of  go. 

—Albany  Times. 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  K.  Schiffmann.  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by- 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.    Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

J^^Your  attention  is  respectfully  called  to  page  32. 

1M^ Anything  from  a  calling  card  to  a  large  show  card  embossed  in  colors,  or 
from  a,  circular  to  a  history  of  the  world,  can  be  produced  by  the  Swinburne  Printing 
Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 

Young  Mr.  Dollev— Miss  Amy,  what  is  the  best  way  of  killing  time  in  the  winter? 
Amy— Sleigh  it.— Truth. 

fpfl^Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  cures  all  coughs,  colds  and  affections  of  the 
throat,  chest  and  luDgs. 

Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

"The  man  or  woman  who  hasn't  written  a  poem  on  the  subject  of  Christmas 
either  has  no  poetic  talent  oris  a  person  of  extraordinary  self-control." 

Caswell's  Blood  Cleaner  will  purify  the  blood. 

__  "The  Swinburne  Printing  Company  would  like  to  see  you  when  you  have 
any  use  for  printer's  ink. 

As  Far  as  the  Surprise  Went. 

"And  you  really  were  surprised,  Henry,  dear?"  said  the  young  wife,  gazing 
fondlv  into  his  eyes. 

"Yes,  indeed,  dear,"  he  replied  with  emphasis,  as  he  gazed  upon  the  pattern 
of  the  smoking-]  acitet;  "I  might  even  say  startled."— Judge. 

I^T-Don't  skip  page  32,  as  it  contains  something  of  interest  to  you. 

£3flp-CasweH's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction  or  money 
refunded.  •  t 

"According  to  the  familiar  pictures  of  Santa  Claus  hefts  a  most  influential 
person,  he  has  so  much  at  the  back  of  him." 


_  -The  only  concern  in  the  city  making  a  specialty  of  high  class  printing, 
engraving  and  embossing  is  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

j^^Gentlemen  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  very  beneficial  applied  immediately 
after  shaving. 

tf»-How  to  be  happy,  see  page  32. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  73 


FRITTERS. 


IN  MAKING  fritters,  to  make  them  light  beat  yolks  and  whites 
separately.  Do  not  make  too  thick  a  batter;  just  thick  enough 
to  drop  from  a  spoon  easily.  Use  nice  sweet  lard  or  cottosuet, 
and  have  it  at  boiling  heat.  Test  by  dropping  in  a  little  of  the  batter  ; 
if  it  rises  immediately  and  soon  browns  it  is  just  right.  In  using 
fresh  lard  a  good  plan  is  to  fry  a  few  slices  of  potatoes  in  it  before 
using.  This  clarifies  it.  Never  use  but  a  very  little  sugar  in  the  bat- 
ter, as  sugar  will  make  them  heavy;  sprinkle  it  over  them  when 
ready  to  serve. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  to  one  pint  of  milk  ;  mix  well  and  add 
one  can  of  fine  corn.  Add  flour  enough  to  make  the  batter  the 
proper  consistency  and  fry  like  griddle  cakes.  Serve  these  with 
chicken. 

Corn  Fritters. 

Take  one  quart  grated  sweet  corn,  add  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one 
cup  of  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  two ,  eggs  well  beaten.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  fry  like  griddle  cakes  on  a  well  greased  griddle. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

One  pint  of  oysters,  one  pint  of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  pint 
of  water.  Drain  and  chop  oysters.  Mix  flour,  oysters  and  salt  to- 
gether ;  add  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  tablespoon  of  salad  oil.  Fry 
in  boiling  fat  until  brown.     Butter  can  be  used  in  place  of  salad  oil. 

Apple  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  heaping  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder,  two  eggs,  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  little  salt.  Throw  into 
the  batter  thin  pieces  of  sour  apples ;  about  two.  Fry  to  a  light 
brown  in  hot  lard  and  serve  with  maple  syrup.  These  make  a  nice 
dessert.  iv 


The  cook  will  find  something  interesting  on  page  32. 
Chap-O-Lene.will  positively  cure  chapped  or  rough  skin. 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


POO  INDIAN 

9 x  HERBAL 
REMEDIES 


Kickapoo  Indian  Sagwa,  Blood, 
Liver  and  Stomach  Renovator,  the 
greatest  life  giving  blood  cleansing 
and  health  restoring  remedy  known 
cures  Dyspepsia,  Lives' Complaint, 
Malaria,  Rheumatism,  and  all 
Stomach  and  Bowel  Trouble.  $1.00 


^KanWORMKILLERI 


For  Worms  in  children;  easily  and 
safely  removed  in  one  night.  Pin 
Wormsj  Stomach  Worms  and 
Round  Worms.  It  phy6icsthe  child 
and  voids  the  worm  every  time. 
Easy  to  take.    25  Cents. 


SALtfE 


Cures  all  kinds  of  Skin  Diseases, 
Eruptions,  Piles,  Bruises,  Itch, 
Ring  Worms,  Tetter,  Scorbutic 
Eruptions,  etc.  Safe  and  easy 
remedy  to  use.    25  Cents. 


KIcW^COUeHQJRE 


Speedy  relief  and  sure  cure  for 

Coughs,  Colds.  Asthma,  Whooping 

i  Cough,    Bronchitis,    Hoarseness, 

loss  of  voice  and  all  affections  of 

Throat,  Chest  and  Lungs.    50  Cts. 


KlCKAKgiAMOlL 


Quick  cure  tor  all  kinds  of  pain; 

Neuralgia,    Rheumatism,    Tooth" 

vj  ache,   soreness   and    pain  in  any 

|  part  of  the   body,  internal  or  ex- 

|  ternal  quickly  removed^  25  Cents. 

These  Indian  Herbal  Remedies 

are  for  sale  by  all  Druggists  in  the 

U.  S.  at  price  marked  on  bottle. 


HEALY&BIGELOV 

NEW  HAVEN, CONN. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  75 

Clam  Fritters. 

Use  instead  of  oysters  a  pint  of  chopped  clams,  and  the  same 
batter  as  for  oysters.  Use  more  flour,  as  the  liquor  in  the  clams  is  apt 
to  thin  the  batter. 

Cream  Fritters. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  six  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  flour,  three  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  spoon  of  salt. 
Flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg,  lemon  or  orange.  Put  ingredients 
together  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler.  Butter  a  cake  pan  and  pour  in 
the  mixture;  cool  and  cut  into  small  squares.  Dip  the  squares  in 
beaten  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  do  not  cook  mixture  but 
drop  by  spoonfuls  in  boiling  fat. 

Banana  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter  or  lard,  enough  water  or  milk  to  make  a  bat- 
ter. Add  the  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  stir  in  three  or  four  bananas 
cut  in  slices.  Drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  in  boiling  lard.  Do  not 
crowd.  If  the  fat  is  hot  they  will  take  from  three  to  five  minutes. 
Serve  with  cream  sauce  or  maple  syrup. 

Lemon  Fritters. 

Three  eggs,  a  pint  of  flour,  one-half  tea. cup  of  sugar,  a  gill  of  milk, 
juice  and  grated  peel  of  one  lemon.  Serve  with  maple  syrup  or  a  foam- 
ing sauce. 

Hasty  Fritters. 

Put  three  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour  info  a  bowl,  and  enough 
boiling  water  on  it  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  stirring  and  beating  well  to 
prevent  it  from  becoming  lumpy.  Let  it  cool  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  and  whites  of  two.  Beat  well  together  and  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls in  boiling  lard  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  on  a  dish  with  a 
spoonful  of  preserves,  marmalade  or  jelly. 

Peach  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  flour  and 
a  half  cup  of  yeast.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  very  light  add 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  large  piece  of  butter 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Knead  with  the  hands  into  a  loaf.  Pinch  off  pieces 
of  the  dough,  and  in  the  centre  of  each  piece  put  a  stoned  peach.  Koll 
up  in  the  dough  and  put  in  a  buttered  pan  some  distance  apart,  to  rise 
again.  Fry  in  hot  fat,  and  serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce.  Use  apricots 
or  canned  peaches  in  the  same  way.  lw 


76 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


e 


0.  RANSOM.  SON  &  CO.'S 


^ 


Trask's  Magnetic  Ointment, 

Far  all  Inflammations, 

Ransnm's  Hive  Symp  and  Tnlu, 

Fnr  Coughs,  Croup,  Etc, 

Miller's  Magnetic  Halm, 

Fcr  Colic,  Summsr  Complaints,  Colds,  Etc 

Andersen's  Eermadcrj 

[jj  A  Liniment  for  Man  and  BBast, 

King  of  the  Bleed, 

FL  Bin  Dd  Purifier. 

Halberfs  Star  Remedy; 

Fnr  all  Kidney,  Liver  and  Stomach  Troubles.. 


Retail  Trade  Supplied  by  Jobbers  who  will  Quote  Prices. 


D.RartsonbSoi*  &  Go., Proprietors, 
BUFFALO,  N.  Y.,  U.  S.  A. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  77 


FISH. 


|ISH  is  considered  a  very  reliable  article  of  food.  It  is  not  so  nutri- 
tious and  stimulating  as  meat,  but  very  wholesome.  It  is  espe- 
cially adapted  to  people  upon  whom  there  are  great  demands  for 
nervous  energy.  It  is  so  easily  digested  and  contains  so  little  fat  and 
is  richer  in  phosphorus  than  meat.  Fish,  to  be  eatable,  must  be  per- 
fectly fresh.  Good  fish  will  have  a  firm,  hard  meat.  If  it  looks  pale 
and  limp  reject  it  as  unfit  to  cook.  Fish  should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as 
caught.  Remove  the  scales  with  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  off  the  head 
and  tail.  Wash  in  cold  salted  water  thoroughly,  and  wipe  dry,  then 
place  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  cook.  Do  not  soak  fresh  fish.  Always 
cook  fish  very  well  done.  )Ve  have  the  salt  water,  fresh  water  and 
shell  fish.  Pieces  of  cold  fish  left  over  make  very  nice  salads  and  cro- 
quettes. Large  fish  are  usually  boiled  and  the  small  ones  fried.  Oily 
fish,  as  mackerel,  salmon,  blue  fish,  should  never  be  fried. 

Baked  Fish. 

Prepare  a  fish  as  given  above ;  rub  the  fish  inside  and  out  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs.  Sew  it 
up  and  put  in  a  hot  pan  with  beef  drippings  and  a  piece  of  butter. 
Sprinkle  over  it  a  little  flour.  Bake  an  hour.  This  is  especially  nice 
for  white  fish.  The  dressing  can  be  left  out.  Lay  pieces  of  salt  pork 
on  top  of  the  fish. 

Baked  Trout. 

Clean  well  and  wipe  dry.  Lay  on  a  rack  in  a  roasting  pan.  Bake 
slowly,  basting  with  butter  and  water.  When  done  serve  with  a  white 
sauce  poured  around  it. 

-    Boiled  Fish. 

To  make  boiled  fish  palatable,  serve  always  with  a  rich  sauce. 
Put  the  fish  in  hot  water  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  thirty  min- 
utes. Put  the  fish  in  a  piece  of  strong  white  cotton  cloth  if  you  have 
no  fish  kettle.  This  keeps  it  in  shape.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  in 
the  water  in  which  the  fish  is  boiled.  ix 

JM^The  place  to  get  high  class  printing  is  at  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


78  THE    WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Bold  Dust  Flour 


MADE  BY  THE 


HOLLY  FLOURING  MILLS, 


IS  EQUAL  TO  THE  BEST  PATENT. 


The  "  HOLLY "  has  been  in  Successful  Operation 
in  Minneapolis  for  Twenty  Years. 

Highest  Award  at  the  World's  Fair. 


IMPORTANT   NOTICE. 

If  your  grocer  WILL  NOT  sell  you  GOLD  DUST,  send 
down  to  the  mill  after  it  yourself,  and  we  will  give  you  ONE 
SACK  or  TWENTY,   at  WHOLESALE  PRICE. 

C.  McC.  REEVE, 

President. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  79 

Baked  Fish  With  Oyster  Stuffing. 

Remove  the  head,  tail  and  skin.  Rub  with  salt  and  lemon 
juice.  Make  a  dressing  as  follows  :  One  pint  of  oysters,  one  cup  of  sea- 
soned and  buttered  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  Drain  oysters  and  roll 
in  the  crumbs.  Fill  the  fish  and  sprinkle  the  crumbs  over  it.  Bake 
in  the  oven  over  a  little  water  in  a  roasting  pan  forty  minutes.  Serve 
with  tomato  either  poured  around  it  or  in  side  dishes. 

Fried  Fish. 

All  small  fish  like  brook  trout,  smelts,  etc.,  are  best  fried.  Salt 
them  well  after  they  are  cleaned  and  dried,  and  roll  in  Indian  meal  or 
flour.  Fry  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  a  crisp  brown.  Take  the  pork 
from  the  pan  and  put  in  the  fish.  Fry  brown  on  one  side  and  turn  and 
fry  brown  on  the  other.    Flour  can  be  used  in  place  of  Indian  meal. 

Salt  Codfish. 

The  fish  should  be  washed  and  soaked  in  several  waters.  Put  on 
in  cold  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  put  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  and  keep  it  hot ;  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  off  the  water  and 
pour  on  a  cream  sauce,  or  serve  the  fish  with  drawn  butter. 

Fish  Balls. 

Prepare  codfish  as  above.  Take  mashed  potatoes  left  from  dinner ; 
season  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  A  beaten  egg  makes  them 
lighter.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  codfish.  Form  with  the  hands 
into  flat  cakes  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard  or  dripoings. 

Canned  Salmon. 

This  is  nice  served  with  a  warm  cream  sauce,  or  heat  a  cup  of  milk, 
add  a  large  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  the  fish  and 
let  it  stand  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Salt  mack- 
erel is  nice  served  this  way. 

Turbot. 

Cook  a  white  fish  tender.  Remove  the  bones.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  of 
flour.  When  cool  add  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  little 
chopped  onion  and  parsley.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  crumbs , 
then  a  layer  of  fish.  Cover  the  top  with  crumbs  and  pour  over  all  the 
sauce.  Bake  half  an  hour.  A  grating  of  cheese  makes  it  nice.  Use 
haddock  in  place  of  white  fish.  ly 

J0^-Wedding  Invitations,  Announcements,  At  Home,  etc.  High  class  work 
produced  by  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


80  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

VALi  BhATZ 
BREWING  I  GO. 


Milwaukee,  Wis. 

LkLLLLLi 

fTTTTTTT 


/T\ii79^apolis 


Brane!?, 


South  Sixth  St. 


mm 

TELEPHONE   20S. 


imWT 


FINE  TABLE  BEER 

OUR    BRANDS   ARE: 

TIYOLI,  WIENER,  IMPERIAL,  PRIVATE  STOCK,  MDEHCHEHER. 


Family  Trade  Solicited. 

Orders  Delivered  to  any  part  of  the  City. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  81 


SHELL  FISH. 

Clam  Stew. 

Take  half  a  peck  of  clams,  wash  the  shells.  Put  in  a  kettle  with 
a  cup  of  water.  Cook  until  the  shells  open.  Take  out  of  the  shells, 
strain  the  juice  and  let  the  clams  come  to  a  boil.  Add  one  pint  of 
milk,  a  large  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  few  small  crackers 
rolled  fine.  To  fry  them  take  them  from  the  shells  and  dry  them,  roll 
in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Crabs. 

Remove  from  the  shells  the  same  as  clams.  Dip  in  beaten  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown.     Serve  with  tartar  sauce. 

Lobster. 

The  lobster  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  Never  cook  it  too  long,  for 
long  cooking  makes  it  tough.  Prepare  the  lobster  as  given  in  the  mis- 
cellaneous recipes.  Lobster  can  be  broiled  by  covering  it  with  soft  but- 
ter, and  dredge  it  with  flour.  Place  on  a  broiler  and  cook  a  delicate 
brown. 

Stewed  Lobster. 

Take  the  meat  of  a  lobster  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Put  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  two  cups  of  water  or  stock,  pepper 
and  salt.  Add  the  lobster,  cook  ten  minutes  and  serve.  This  mix- 
ture, when  cold,  can  be  cut  up  into  chops  and  dipped  in  beaten  egg  and 
crumbs  and  fried  in  boiling  fat.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon. 

Oysters  on  the  Half  Shell. 

Do  not  open  until  ready  to  serve.  Place  six  oysters  on  each  plate 
in  half  the  shell  and  a  piece  of  lemon  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  plate. 

Raw  Oysters  on  Ice. 

Take  a  block  of  ice  and  make  a  hole  in  the  top  by  putting  on  a  very 
hot  flatiron.  Pour  off"  the  water  and  repeat  this  until  there  is  quite  a 
cavity.  Season  the  oysters  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Put  in  a 
cool  place.  Pour  the  oysters  in  the  cavity  and  cover  with  pieces  of 
lemon.    Cover  the  oysters  with  parsley  or  some  bright  flowers.  is 

fOfc^Caswell's  Beef,  Wine  and  Iron  is  the  Ideal  Tonic. 


82  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

One  pint  of  oysters.  Butter  a  dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs,  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt  and  a  layer  of  oysters  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  full,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Moisten  with  milk  or  water. 
Bake  until  brown.  Use  the  liquor  also  for  wetting.  A  cup  of  cream  is 
an  addition.  Some  add  lemon  juice,  wine  or  Worcestershire  sauce- 
Oysters  are  nice  escalloped  in  shells.  Prepare  the  same  as  above 
and  serve  in  shells. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Drain  carefully  and  pick  out  all  the  bits  of  shell,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  drop 
singly  into  hot  fat.  Skim  out  and  serve  with  cold  slaw  or  slices  of 
lemon.  Some  use  Indian  meal  in  place  of  cracker  crumbs.  First  roll 
in  the  meal,  then  in  the  egg  and  again  in  the  meal. 

Creamed  Oysters. 

Parboil  the  oysters  until  plump.  Make  a  cream  sauce  and  season 
with  cayenne  and  celery  salt.  Pour  over  the  oysters.  Serve  on  slices 
of  toast. 

Panned  Oysters. 

Take  large  oysters — about  a  dozen  large  ones.  Put  on  the  oysters 
in  their  liquor ;  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  lemon  juice,  a  table- 
spoon of  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
cayenne.    Cook  one  minute  and  place  on  slices  of  nice  buttered  toast. 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Take  large  oysters,  drain  and  dry  them.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  broil  on  a  wire  broiler  or  place  on  a  rack  under  the  blaze  in 
the  oven  of  a  gas  range  and  turn  when  brown.  Dip  in  butter  and  then 
in  powdered  crumbs  and  broil. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Take  oysters  and  put  in  a  pan  with  their  liquor.  Add  a  cup  of 
milk,  a  little  lemon  rind,  a  large  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
Stir  into  the  milk-  a  teaspoon  of  flour ;  stir  and  let  the  mixture  sim- 
mer for  a  few  minutes.  Line  patty  pans  with  puff  paste.  Fill 
while  hot  with  the  oysters.  2a 

gtf^  Every  business  man  can  profit  if  he  will  carefully  follow  the  recipe  on 
page  3'2. 

"As  much  money  is  spent  on  funerals  as  ef  a  man's  social  standing  in  de  next 
wurld  depended  on  de  size  ob  his  funeral-bill  in  dis." 

Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  83 

Pigs  in  Blankets. 

Season  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  thin  slices  of  bacon, 
wrap  an  oyster  in  each  slice  and  fasten  with  a  tooth  pick.  Put  in  a 
frying  pan  and  cook  long  enough  to  cook  the  bacon.  Put  on  slices  of 
toast  just  as  they  are. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Line  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  a  nice  rich  crust.  Dredge  the 
crust  with  flour,  pour  in  a  pint  of  oysters,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  bits  of  butter.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  cover  with  a  top  crust. 
Make  an  opening  in  the  top.  2b 

JM^*How  to  make  Us  happy,  read  the  recipe  on  page  32  and  follow  it. 
^J^.Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  a  periect  cougn  care. 
What's  in  a  Name  ? 

"No,"  said  the  fair  young:  maid,  as  she  listened  to  congratulations  tinctured 
with  malice,  envy  and  all  uncharitableness;  "Guggenheimer  is  neither  a 
beautiful  nor  a  distinguished  name.  But  when  it  goes  with  one  of  the  largest 
ready-made  pants  businesses  on  West  Broadway,  it's  a  very  reasonably  decent 
sort  of  a  Christmas  present;  and  I  want  you  to  understand  that  I've  got  it." 


■High  class  printing  and  engraving.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Shiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferes.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.    Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

"The  old  liberty  bell  has  gone  home.    Chicago  has  found  it  exactly  what  it  was 
cracked  up  to  be." 

Child's  Cough  Cure  is  prepared  especially  for  children. 

_.  'We  guarantee  our  work.  If  it  is  not  entirely  satisfactory  send  it  back; 
don't  use  it  up  and  then  ask  for  a  rebate,  as  you  won't  get  it.  We  don't  care  to 
deal  with  cranks.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

Dudes  are  now  using  chrysanthemums  in  connection  with  their  overcoats,  to 
keep  themselves  warm. 

^^•High  class  printing,  engraving  and  embossing  at  9-11-13  Washington 
avenue  north. 

^I^If  you^are  going  to  be  married  read  page  32. 

A  Master  of  Fiction. 

Applicant— I  understand  you  have  a  place  for  a  writer  of  pure  fiction. 
Publisher— I  have.    Are  you  one? 
"I  think  so." 

"What  have  you  d^ne  in  that  line?"  . 

"Written  several  books  for  railroads,  descriptive  of  the  attractions  of  their 
summer  resort  regions,  and — " 

"That  is  sufficient!    You  may  go  to  work  at  once." 

J0^*The  housekeeper  should  not  fail  to  study  page  32. 


84  THE   WETNHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

STANDARD  PREPARATIONS. 

MRS.    WINSLOW'S    SOOTHING   SYRUP 

Has  been  used  for  over  FIFTY  YEARS  by  MILLIONS  of  MOTHERS  for  their 
CHILDREN  WHILE  TEETHING,  with  PERFECT  SUCCESS.  It  SOOTHS  the  CHILD, 
SOFTENS  the  GUMS,  ALLAYS  all  PAIN;  CURES  WIND  COLIC,  and  is  the  best  rem- 
edy for  DIARRHOEA.  Sold  by  Druggists  in  every  part  of  the  world.  Be  sure  and 
ask  for  "Mrs.  Windslow's  Soothing  Syrup,"  and  take  no  other  kind.  Retail 
price,  25  cents  a  bottle. 

THE  ANGLO-AMERICAN  DRUG  CO.,  Proprietors, 
217  Fulton  Street,  NEW  YORK,  N  Y. 

BROWN'S  BRONCHIAL  TROCHES. 

An  Old  and  World-Renowned  Remedy  for  the  Relief  and  Cure 

of  Coughs,  Hoarsness,  and  all  Throat  Troubles. 

Indispensable  to  Speakers  and  Singers. 

For  over  forty  years  they  have  been  recommended  by  physicians,  and  widely 
used,  being  known  all  over  the  world  as  one  of  the  few  staple  cough  remedies. 
Sold  only  in  boxes.    Retail  price,  25  cents,  50  cents,  $1.00. 
JOHN  I.  BROWN  &  SONS,  Proprietors, 

184  Summer  Street,  BOSTON,  MASS.  * 

BROWN'S  VERMIFUGE  COMFITS  OR  WORM  LOZENGERS. 

This  valuable  combination,  although  effectual  in  destroying  worms,  can  do  no 
possible  injury  to  the  most  delicate  child.  Successfully  used  by  physicians,  and 
found  to  be  absolutely  sure  in  eradicating  Worms.  Much  sickness,  undoubtedly, 
with  children,  attributed  to  other  causes,  is  occasioned  by  Worms.  Retail 
price,  25  cents  a  box. 

THE  CURTIS  &  BROWN  M'F'G  CO.,  L'd,  Proprietors, 
217  Fulton  Street,  NEW  YORK,  N.  Y. 

BROWN'S    HOUSEHOLD    PANACEA. 

Unequalled  for  relieving  pain.  Taken  internally,  it  gives  prompt  and  effective  relief 
in  all  cases  of  Cramps,  Summer  Complaints,  Chills,  and  Pain  in  the  Side,  Stomach 
or  Bowels.  Its  effectiveness  is  increased  by  simultaneous  external  application  on 
flannel  or  by  rubbing. 

Used  externally  for  healing  and  removing  soreness  from  Bruises,  Cuts  and  Burns, 
and  relieving  Toothache,  Sprains,  Stiff  Joints  and  Rheumatic  Affections,  it  produces 
excellent  results. 

Stronger  than  any  similar  preparation,  and  invaluable  as  a  household  remedy 
for  speedily  relieving  aches  and  pains.    Retail  price,  25  cents  a  bottle. 
THE  CURTIS  &  BROWN  M'F'G  CO.,  L'd,  Proprietors, 
21  7  Fulton  Street,  NEW  YORK,  N.  Y. 

BROWN'S  CAMPHORATED  SAPONACEOUS  DENTIFRICE. 

A  Superior  Preparation  and  a  most  Agreeable  Article  for 
Cleansing  and  Preserving  the  Teeth  and  Purifying  the  Breath. 

Microscopical  examination  by  Dr.  H.  I.  BowDiTCH.of  the  matter  deposited  on  the 
teeth,  have  proved  that  those  only  who  use  Soap  as  a  dentifrice  were  free  from  the 
accumulation  of  animal  and  vegetable  parasites  upon  the  teeth  and  gums.    The  ad- 
dition of  camphor  strengthens  and  relieves  soreness  of  the  gums  and  teeth,  and 
maintains  them  constantly  in  a  healthy  state.    Retail  price,  25  cents  ajar. 
Prepared  by  JOHN  I.  BROWN  &  SONS, 
THE  CURTIS  &  BROWN  M'F'G  CO.,  L'd,  Proprietors, 
217  Fulton  Street,  NEW  YORK,  N.  Y. 
And  the  Celebrated  "DONTINA"  Powder  for  the  teeth.    25  cents  a  jar. 

ALL  FOR  SALE  BY 

WEINHOLD    DRUG   CO-  MINNEAPOLIS.  MINNESOTA. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  85 


MEAT. 


EAT  is  a  term  given  to  the  muscular  flesh,  heart,  liver,  brains, 
HH  tongue  and  fat  of  animals.  We  have  three  classes— meat, 
poultry  and  game.  Meat  should  always  be  cooked  in  such  a 
way  as  to  retain  the  largest  proportion  of  juice.  To  boil  fresh  meat  to 
retain  the  juice,  put  into  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  let  it  simmer  slowly  until  done.  Salt  sets  the  juices 
free.  When  meat  is  boiled  for  stock,  use  cold  water  to  extract  all 
the  juice  and  nutriment  in  the  meat.  Boil  meat  always  slowly  and 
keep  covered  closely.  Salt  meat  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water  and 
the  water  changed  several' times  according  to  the  saltness  o'f  it.  In 
roasting  meats  baste  frequently,  and  turn ;  to  roast  them  evenly  the 
new  roasting  pans  with  racks  do  the  work  with  very  little  care.  Have 
the  oven  very  hot  when  the  meat  is  first  put  in  and  after  twenty 
minutes  lower  and  keep  a  regular  fire.  The  time  of  roasting  depends 
on  the  size  of  the  roast.  Allow  for  rare  meats  fifteen  minutes  to  the 
pound  and  twenty  for  roasts  well  done.  Broiling  is  the  most  wholesome 
way  of  cooking  steaks,  chops,  ham,  etc.  Frying  in  fat  renders  the 
meat  not  nearly  so  digestible.  We  use  meat  all  seasons  of  the  year, 
but  certain  kinds  are  better  at  certain  seasons.  Beef  at  all  times,  and 
is  the  staple  meat.  Pork  is  good  in  fall  and  winter,  veal  in  the  spring, 
lamb  in  the  summer  and  poultry  and  game  in  the  fall  and  winter. 
Good  beef  has  a  firm  flesh  and  should  be  a  bright  red,  the  fat  dry  and 
crumble  easily.  It  is  much  better  some  time  after  it  is  killed;  at 
least  a  week  old.  Mutton  and  lamb  are  best  kept  for  some  time  be- 
fore cooking.  In  veal  the  fat  should  be  white  and  the  flesh  pink  or 
flesh  color.  If  it  is  white  the  blood  has  been  taken  out  of  the  calf 
before  it  has  been  killed,  and  it  is  unfit  to  eat.  Veal  to  be  palatable 
should  be  highly  seasoned  and  cooked  very  well  done.  Pork  is  the 
hardest  meat  to  digest  and  should  never  be  eaten  by  children  or  people 
with  weak  stomachs.  It  is  very  important  to  cook  pork  thoroughly 
and  very  well  done.  The  meat  of  poultry  is  excellent  for  invalids,  as 
it  abounds  in  phosphorus.  All  game  has  a  strong  odor.  It  should 
be  kept  until  tender,  but  no  longer.    All  poultry  and  game  should  be 

2c 


Rfi  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

ii 


n 


Dr.Scotfs  Electric 

goods  are  world-renowned  for  the  beneficent  power  of  Elec- 
tro-Magnetism they  contain,  and  popular  because  this  cura- 
tive agent  is  combined  in  articles  of  every  day  use. 

Electric  Corsets  Zj^^SZ- 

matism.     Price,  $1.00,  $1.25,  $1.50,  $2.00  and  $3.00. 

Electric  Hair  Br^es  %*™fi 

ness,  Dandruff,  and  Diseases  of  the  Scalp.  Price,  $1.00,  $1.50, 
$2.00,  $2.50  and  $3.00. 

X^lppfTMf*  TJp"lf"^i  cure      Rheumatism,     Nervous 

AU  U  Debility,  Indigestion,  Back- 
ache, Liver  and  Kidney  Trouble.  Price,  $3.00,  $5.00  and 
$10.00. 

Electric  Safety  Razor,  — **£ 

ber's  Itch,  Pimples,  and  Blotches  ;  perfect  security  from  cut- 
ting the  face  when  shaving.  A  novice  can  use  it.     Price,  $2.00. 

Electric  Plasters,  Insoles,  Fie  h 
Brushes,  Tooth  Brushes,  Curlers,  and 
Appliances. 

A  full  stock  of  our  goods  can  be  found  at  Weinhold  Drug 
Co.,  Minneapolis,  Minn.  Our  book,  "The  Doctor's  Story," 
giving  full  information  concerning  all  our  goods,  free  on  ap- 
plication.    Address 

CEO.    A.    SCOTT, 

842  Broadway,  -  -  NEW  YORK. 

Agents  "Wanted.  Mention  this  Book. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  87 

cleaned  and  drawn  as  soon  as  they  are  killed.  In  choosing  chickens 
and  turkeys  choose  those  which  have  short,  plump  legs  and  y3llow 
feet,  and  the  breasts  firm  and  plump.  Feel  of  the  cartilage  at  the  end 
of  the  breast  bone ;  if  it  is  soft  the  fowl  is  young  and  tender,  if  hard 
and  not  pliable  it  is  old  and  tough. 

Roast  Beef. 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  clean  towel,  dredge  the  sides  and  top  with 
flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  on  a  rack  in  a  roasting  pan  and  put  in  a 
very  hot  oven  ;  have  the  pan  hot.  Cover  closely  and  allow  for  rare 
beef  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound.  If  the  meat  is  roasted  in  a  com- 
mon dripping  pan  put  in  a  little  water  and  baste  occasionally.  Un- 
cover your  pan  a  few  minutes  before  the  meat  is  done  to  brown  nicely. 
Flour  and  salt  together  forms  a  paste  which  retains  the  juices  of  the 
meat.  Yorkshire  pudding  is  nice  baked  and  served  with  roast  beef. 
(Look  in  the  recipes  for  Yorkshire  pudding.) 

Broiled  Beefsteak. 

Lay  a  thick,  tender  beefsteak  on  a  gridiron  with  a  little  beef  suet 
over  a  bed  of  hot  coals  or  place  the  rack  under  the  blaze  of  a  gas  range. 
When  done  on  one  side,  turn  quickly  and  cook  the  other.  Put  on  a  hot 
platter,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  bits  of  butter. 

Beefsteak  and  Onions. 

Slice  the  onions  thin.  Put  the  steak  in  a  hot  pan,  cover  with 
the  onions  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  tightly.  When 
the  meat  has  been  browned  on  one  side  remove  the  onions,  turn  the 
steak,  replace  them  and  cook  until  done. 

Beef  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  of  beef  chopped  fine,  one-half  a  pound  of  salt 
pork  chopped  fine  ;  mix  with  three  well  beaten  eggs,  six  crackers  rolled 
fine,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  sage  and  thyme 
to  taste.  Put  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  water  in  a  pan  and  bake 
an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Baste  occasionally.  Slice  when  served.  Veal 
can  be  used  in  the  place  of  beef. 

Beef  Tongue. 

Wash  a  fresh  tongue ;  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  with  a  small 
pod  of  red  pepper  in  it ;  boil  until  it  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork  ; 
remove  the  skin  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  sliced  cold  for  lunch, 
or  serve  in  a  jelly.  2d 

"Silence  is  the  safest  course  for  any  man  to  adopt  who  distrusts  himself." 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


Washburn' 
Crosby 
Co.'s 
I  "Best" 

FLOUR 


IS   THE 


Leading  hi  Flour  of  Minnesota, 

50,000  BARRELS 

Sold  Annually  to  Minneapolis  Trade. 

YOUR  GROCER  KEEPS  IT. 

UUUiUlUiUUUliUMlUUUUUUU 


ONCE 

USED, 

USED. 
mrnmrnmnrmnnromnnnnT 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Pot  Roast. 

Take  a  good  piece  from  the  rump  or  round,  with  some  fat  in  it. 
Put  in  a  kettle  with  as  little  water  as  will  cover  it.  Cover  closely,  and 
as  the  water  boils  away  add  more.  When  the  meat  is  tender  the  water 
will  be  all  boiled  away.  The  fat  will  brown  it.  If  there  is  not  enough 
add  some  drippings  or  a  piece  of  butter.  Brown  over  a  slow  fire. 
Make  a  gravy  of  the  browned  drippings. 

Beef  alaMode. 

Take  six  pounds  of  good  round  beef.  Trim  off  rough  edges. 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  into  strips  half  an  inch  thick.  Soak  the 
beef  in  one  cup  of  boiling  vinegar  in  which  has  been  thrown  one  onion 
chopped  fine,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
pepper,  cloves  and  allspice.  Let  the  meat  stand  in  this.  Pierce  the 
beef  with  a  sharp  knife  with  holes  an  inch  apart.  Place  in  these 
holes  the  strips  of  pork.  Put  a  cloth  around  the  meat  and  pin  it 
securely.  Dredge  with  flour.  Put  chopped  onion,  carrot  and  half  a 
turnip  in  hot  fat,  and  fry  until  brown.  Brown  the  meat  in  the  fat  and 
the  vegetables.  Put  in  some  water  and  simmer  four  hours.  Garnish 
with  potato  balls  and  small  onions. 

Hamberg  Steak. 

Take  a  round  steak  and  pound  it  well.  Fry  two  or  three  onions 
brown,  in  butter ;  spread  the  onions  on  the  steak  and  fold  it ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  fry  brown.  A  round  steak  can  be 
chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  the  fried  onions,  and  seasoned  well. 
Mold  into  flat  cakes  and  fry  well  done ." 

Corned  Beef. 

Soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  if  very  salt.  Put  in  cold  water,  and 
if  still  salt  change  the  water.  Simmer  slowly  for  several  hours.  This 
is  nice  with  a  boiled  dinner. 

Fried  Liver. 

Soak  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  draw  out  the  blood;  drain  and 
remove  the  thin  skin ;  cut  into  pieces ;  cut  nice  slices  of  bacon,  fry  crisp, 
but  not  brown ;  take  out  and  fry  the  liver  in  the  bacon  fat.  This  can  be 
served  with  the  slices  of  bacon  and  a  brown  gravy  seasoned  with  onion 
and  lemon  juice.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  2e 

So  far  as  getting  Christmas  presents  is  concerned  it's  like  a  lottery— you  have  to 
take  your  chances. 

^^•Are  you  going  to  lay  this  book  down  and  not  read  that  recipe  on  page  32. 

Few  love  to  hear  the  sins  they  love  to  act.— Shakespeare. 


90  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


c&ssleq 


MAGIC 


WAFERS 


Tze    IKZizlstid    Tkcj^t    Ottirie. 


From  a  Doctor. 

Mr.  Max  Gessler  : 

Dear  Sir — I  have  used  your  "  Magic  Headache  Wafers"  in  my 
daily  practice  and  find  them  to  give  excellent  satisfaction.  I  have 
prescribed  them  in  a  great  number  of  cases  and  have  yet  to  hear  from 
the  first  case  that  your  ''Wafers"  failed  to  cure.  I  do  not  hesitate  to 
recommend  them  (without  solicitation)  to  both  "practitioners  and  the 
public"  as  a  "sure  cure."  Yours  very  truly, 

DR.  J.  T.  FELLING, 

Des  Moines,  Ia. 
From  a  Chemist. 

I  have  personally  made  an  analysis  of  Gessler's  Magic  Headache 
Wafers  and  find  them  free  from  quinine,  morphine,  opium  and  all  nar- 
cotic or  harmful  alkaloids ;  they  are  perfectly  safe  and  I  can  cheerfully 
recommend  them  for  headache  and  neuralgia. 

ANDREW  S.  MITCHELL, 
Analytical  Chemist, 
Milwaukee,  Wis. 

$1OO.0°  REWARD 

To  any  Chemist  that  will  find  a  trace  of  Opium,  Morphine,  Chloral, 
Quinine  or  anv  harmful  alkaloid  in  Gessler's  Magic  Head- 
ache 'Wafers.  

Druggists  the  world  over  guarantee  Gessler's  Magic  Headache 
Wafers  to  cure  or  will  refund  money. 

MANUFACTURED  BY 

MAX    GESSLER,    PH.    C, 

MILWAUKEE,   WIS. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 91 

Tripe. 

Drain,  dredge  with  flour  and  broil  on  a  gridiron ;  season  with»salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  or  dip  in  a  batter  made  of  egg  and  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Lamb  Chops. 

Trim  and  broil  over  hot  fire  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
with  green  peas .  Wrap  the  end  of  the  bone  of  each  cutlet  in  fringed 
tissue  paper  and  lay  them  overlapping  one  another  on  the  platter. 

Roast  Lamb. 

Prepare  and  roast  the  same  as  roast  beef.  Lamb  is  better  roasted 
longer  than  beef.     Serve  with  mint  sauce. 

Roast  Veal. 

Remove  the  bone  and  fill  the  cavity  with  highly  seasoned  and 
moist  dressing;  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour;  put  strips  of  salt 
pork  or  bacon  on  top,  and  bake  half  an  hour  for  each  pound.  Serve 
with  horse-radish  sauce. 

Breaded  Veal. 

Take  slices  of  veal  from  the  leg ;  remove  all  bone  and  skin ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  out  several  pieces  of  salt  pork  and  fry  the  cutlets  brown 
in  the  fat.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley.  Make  a  gravy 
with  the  fat  left  in  the  pan  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  a  cup  of 
water. 

Sweet-Breads. 

Those  found  in  veal  are  the  best.  They  are  two  glands  lying 
along  the  back  and  in  the  breast.  Put  them  in  cold  water ;  remove  the 
membranes;  cook  in  salted  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice; 
put  in  cold  water ;  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs  and  beaten  egg,  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.  Fry  with  a  slice  of  bacon  fastened  to  each  side.  They  can 
be  served  with  cream  sauce.  Sweet-breads  are  also  prepared  by  dip- 
ping them  in  a  batter  made  of  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  one  cup  of 
flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  baking  powder ;  fry  in  salt  pork  fat. 

Roast  Pork. 

The  loin  or  spareribs  are  the  best  for  roasting.  Rub  with  pepper, 
salt  and  flour  and  bake  thfrty  minutes  for  each  pound.  Rub  with  a 
little  sage  and  thyme.     Bake  well  done.  2f 


The  little  ones  make  so  much  noise  on  Christmas  because  they've  been  taught 
that  it  is  a  holler-day. 


92 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


Why    Drink<X 
Impure  River   Water? 


Fountain  Spring  Water 


Delivered  Daily 


At  Reasonable  Rates 


We  aim 
to  have  the 


^v  BEST  GRADES  of 


&nd  Wood. 


Patrons  of  the  jj  

THEATRES  4 

Furnished  with  J        Prompt  Delivery. 

Fountain  Spring  Water.  J 


k.*, 


Telephone  1465. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  93 

Ham. 

Ham  is  best  broiled  over  a  quick  fire  on  a  gridiron.  Serve  with 
dropped  or  poached  eggs .  If  the  ham  is  very  salt  freshen  it  with  a 
little  cold  water  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  Put  in  a 
large  kettle  and  boil  five  hours.  Pull  off  the  skin.  Put  in  an  oven 
awhile.  This  brings  out  a  great  quantity  of  fat.  Serve  the  nicest  part 
in  slices  cold.    Save  the  bits  for  sandwiches  and  omelets. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Baked  Chicken. 

Clean  thoroughly.  Use  for  a  filling  a  pint  of  dry,  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Either  grate,  or  pound  the  stale  bread  in  a  bag ;  add  half  a  cup  of  milk, 
half  a  cup  of  butter  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage  and  summer  savory,  a  tea- 
spoon ef  chopped  parsley  and  pepper.  Fill  the  chicken  and  sew  up. 
Baste  in  the  oven  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  with  a  little  water  and 
butter,  or  dredge  with  salt  and  rub  a  little  butter  over  the  chicken  and 
dredge  with  flour.    This  keeps  in  the  juices. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  by  cutting  through  the  loose  skin  between  the 
legs  and  body ;  bend  the  legs  over  and  cut  at  the  joint.  Then  cut  off 
the  wings.  Make  an  incision  in  the  skin  near  the  vent  and  cut  the  mem- 
brane lying  between  the  breastbone  and  the  tail  down  the  backbone 
on  each  side.  Now  you  can  easily  remove  the  gizzard,  liver,  heart  and 
intestines.  Remove  the  crop  carefully.  Fry  the  back,  thighs,  legs  and 
wings  in  hot  fat  or  drippings  from  salt  pork  or  bacon.  After  these 
have  fried  awhile  put  in  the  breast.  Season  with  chopped  onion, 
herbs,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  when  browned  and  done  on  one 
side  and  brown  on  the  other.  This  is  only  nice  for  very  young,  tender 
fowls.  When  the  chicken  is  older  and  larger  steam,  or  cook  tender, 
and  then  fry  as  directed.  Serve  with  the  heart  and  liver  fried 
brown.     Garnish  with  fried  oysters  or  rice  croquettes.  2g 


There  is  usually  a  great  big  difference  between  the  property-man  and  the 
man  of  property.— Brooklyn  Eagle. 


94  THE    WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


M 


The  keynote  of  a  successful  dinner 
is  good  butter.    After  an  experience 
of  fifteen  years  in  manufacturing  the 
finest  grades  of  butter  for  the  best  classes 
of  trade  everywhere,  we  feel  confident 
that  we  are  now  master  of  the  art. 
Our  butter  is  always  uniform  in  quality 
and  is  made  by  the  latest  improved 

SEPARATOR    PROCESS. 

Our  motto  is  Cleanliness.     Our  prices 
are  reasonable,  and  our  goods  are 
guaranteed.     In  buying  butter  be  sure 
to  ask  for  the  "Crescent"  or  "Northfield" 
brands  of  butter  and  get  perfect  satisfaction. 

SOLD  BY  4LL  THE  LEADING  GROCERS 
AND  BUTTER  DEALERS 

OF  MINNEAPOLIS  AND  ST.  PAUL. 

Tfye    Qrescent  Qreau}ery   C°m 

MINNEAPOLIS. 
Telephone  610. 


W 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  95 


Chicken  Fricassee. 

Out  the  chicken  up  as  directed.  Put  in  boiling  water  and  add  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  an  hour  and  a  half  or  less  time  accord- 
ing to  the  age  of  the  chicken.  Remove  the  bones.  Dredge  the  meat 
with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  brown  in  hot  butter  or  fry  out  a  few 
slices  of  salt  pork  and  use  the  fat  to  brown  the  chicken.  Strain  the 
liquor,  add  the  fat  left  in  the  pan,  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  a  large 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  of  flour  and  the  last  thing  a  well  beaten 
egg.    Put  a  sliced  onion  in  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled. 

Chicken  Stew. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  above,  and  instead  of  frying,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Dumplings  can  be  added  if  desired.  Serve  with  the  gravy  poured 
around  the  chicken  and  surround  with  the  dumplings.  A  few  toma- 
toes cut  up  and  a  sliced  onion  with  parsley,  cayenne  and  black  pepper 
makes  a  palatable  stew. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  a  stew  and  season  the  same.  Put  in  a 
deep  dish  with  a  bottom  and  top  crust  and  bake.  Make  a  rich  baking 
powder  or  sour  milk  crust  and  cut  incisions  in  the  top  to  let  out  the 
steam.  A  few  sliced  potatoes,  a  sliced  onion,  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  celery  improves  the  pie  greatly.  Some  use  only  the  top  crust  and 
it  is  a  better  plan  to  do  so. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Prepare  the  turkey  by  singeing  the  hairs.  Remove  the  pin  feathers 
with  a  knife.  Cut  the  head  off,  remove  the  wind  pipe  and  crop.  Re- 
move the  internal  organs  and  wash  inside  and  out  thoroughly.  Fill 
with  a  dressing  and  sew  up.  Put  the  turkey  on  the  rack  in  the  pan, 
rub  well  with  soft  butter  and  dredge  with  flour,  pepper  aud  salt.  Baste 
often  and  when  half  the  time  is  up,  turn.  Allow  three  hours  for  an  eight- 
pound  turkey.  Serve  with  cranberry  sauce.  Use  oystee  dressing  in 
place  of  the  dressing  given.  Dressing:  Take  one  pint  of  fine  bread 
crumbs.  Season  highly  with  powdered  herbs,  pepper  and  salt.  Moisten 
with  half  a  cup  of  butter  and  milk  to  make  it  quite  moist.  Add  one 
well  beaten  egg.    (See  "Miscellaneous"  for  oyster  dressing.)  ah 

Customer  (in  cheap    restaurant)— "Let  me  have  some  ham    and    cabbage." 
Waiter  (shouting  to  cook)— "One  actor  with  a  chrysanthemum." 


.You  are  invited  to  call  or  write  for  samples  of  work  when  in  need  of  any- 
thing in  the  line  of  high  class  printing,  from  a  calling  card  to  a  three-sheet  poster.— 
The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  Avenue  North. 


96  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Chicken  Curry. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  remove  the  bones.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  brown  in  hot  butter.  Fry  a  large  onion  cut  in  slices  in 
the  butter  left,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  curry  powder.  Brown  in  the  butter ;  add  one  cup  of  water 
or  stock,  a  cup  of  strained  tomatoes,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Pour  this  on  the  chicken  and  cook  an  hour  longer.  Serve  with  a  bor- 
der of  boiled  rice.    Use  veal  and  lamb  in  the  same  way. 

Scalloped  Turkey. 

Take  bits  of  turkey  left  from  dinner,  butter  a  pan,  sprinkle  in  a 
layer  of  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  cold  turkey.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  add  another  layer  of  crumbs  and  so  on  until  the  pan 
is  full.  Moisten  well  with  milk.  Add  bits  of  dressing  and  gravy  left 
over.  This  is  better  than  all  milk.  Bake  brown.  Cold  turkey  minced 
makes  very  nice  croquettes  and  omelets. 

Roast  Ducks. 

Pick,  singe  and  dress  the  same  as  a  turkey.  Tie  the  wings  and 
legs  securely  and  stuff  with  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  three  ounces  of 
butter,  (bits  of  salt  pork  are  nice)  two  chopped  onions,  teaspoon  of 
mixed  powdered  herbs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Do  not  stuff 
very  full  and  stitch  the  opening  firmly  together  to  keep  the  fat  out. 
Place  in  a  roasting  pan  and  baste  occasionally  with  salt  and  water. 
Turn  often  and  bake  for  a  full  hour ;  if  very  young  thirty  minutes. 
Some  always  parboil  a  duck  or  goose  before  roasting.  It  is  a  good 
plan,  for  it  disposes  of  some  of  the  surplus  fat.  A  dressing  of  equal 
parts  of  mashed  potatoes  and  onions,  seasoned  well,  can  be  used  if  pre- 
ferred. 

Rabbits. 

Skin  and  prepare  as  in  fricasseed  chicken  or  chicken  stew.  Serve 
with  a  white  sauce  the  same  as  with  chicken.  To  make  a  pie  of  them 
follow  the  directions  for  chicken  pie.  2i 


HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Schiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instatnt  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.    Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

No  ashes  are  lighter  than  those  of  incense,  and  few  things  hum  out  sooner. 

—Lander. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  97 

Quail  on  Toast. 

Pick  them  and  singe  them  with  paper ;  cut  off  heads  and  legs. 
Soak  in  salt  and  water  with  a  little  soda  added.  Dry  well,  lard  them 
with  bacon.  That  is,  cut  salt  pork  in  narrow,  thin  strips  and  run 
the  strips  with  a  larding  needle  under  the  skin  of  the  bird  ;  leave  the 
ends  exposed.  Rub  salt  on  them  and  place  on  a  broiler  and  cook  half 
an  hour.     Serve  on  slices  of  buttered  toast.    All  game  should  be  rare. 

Venison. 

Venison  may  be  cooked  the  same  as  mutton  or  beef.  It  should  be 
cooked  rare  and  served  with  cranberry  or  currant  jelly.  Venison  steaks 
should  be  broiled  the  same  as  beefsteaks.  2j 


_  .You  are  invited  to  call  or  write  for  samples  of  work  when  in  need  of  any- 
thing in  the  line  of  hierh  class  printing-,  from  a  calling  card  to  a  three-sheet  poster. — 
The  Swinbnrne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  Avenue  North. 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Shiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferes.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.     Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

^HF*We  guarantee  our  work.  If  it  is  not  entirely  satisfactory  send  it  back; 
don't  use  it  up  and  then  ask  for  a  rebate,  as  you  won't  get  it.  We  don't  care  to 
deal  with  cranks.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

Child's  Cough  Cure  is  prepared  especially  for  children. 

•High   class   printing,  engraving   and  embossing   at  9-11-13    Washington 
avenue  north. 


•If  you  are  going  to  be  married  read  page  32. 
'Silence  is  the  safest  course  for  any  man  to  adopt  who  distrusts  himself. 


_  .Anything  from  a  calling  card  to  a  large  show  card  embossed  in  colors,  or 
from  a  circular  to  a  history  of  the  world,  can  be  produced  by  the  Swinburne  Printing 
Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


■Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  cures  all  coughs,  colds  and  affections  of  the 
throat,  chest  and  lungs. 

|^*The  only  concern  in  the  city  making  a  specialty  of  high  class  printing, 
engraving  and  embossing  is  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 


•Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction  or  money 
refunded. 

^I^Don't  skip  page  32,  as  it  contains  something  of  interest  to  you. 

Ul^-Gentlemen  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  very  beneficial  applied  immediatelv 
after  shaving. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


GRAVIES. 


Gravy  for  Roast  Turkey. 

Put  the  giblets,  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  on  to  boil ;  boil  until 
very  tender.  Chop  fine.  Pour  off  the  fat  from  the  roasting  pan  and 
pour  the  settlings  into  a  sauce  pan.  Take  a  few  tablespoons  of  the  fat 
and  put  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour  ;  add  to  the  liquor  and  put  in  the 
chopped  meat ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  strain.  Brown  the 
flour  before  adding  it  to  the  fat. 

Gravy  for  Roast  Beef. 

When  the  meat  is  done  remove  from  the  pan  and  put  on  the  plat- 
ter and  put  in  the  oven.  Let  the  liquid  in  the  pan  settle,  pour  off 
the  fat.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  water  or  stock.  Put  a  few  tablespoons  of 
the  hot  fat  in  a  sauce  pan  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  browned  flour ; 
add  the  hot  liquid,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens.    Strain  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

Chicken  Gravy. 

Boil  the  giblets  and  chop  them.  Put  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled  in  the  pan  from  which  the  baked  chicken  has  been  taken ;  add 
half  a  pint  of  chicken  stock  or  water  and  thicken  with  two  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Stir  in  half  a  cup  of  cream  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Strain  and  serve  with  baked  chicken.  If  there  is  not  fat 
enough  in  the  chicken  add  a  piece  of  butter.  2k 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OR  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  E.  Schiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instant  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail.  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.    Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

|3gF"How  to  be  happy,  see  page  32. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  99 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 


Lettuce  Sandwiches. 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread,  trimmed  and  shaped,  with  seasoned 
Mayonnaise  dressing.  Put  between  the  slices  a  small,  crisp  lettuce  leaf 
and  serve  for  lunch  or  tea. 

Egg  Sandwiches. 

Cut  bread  very  thin  and  spread  very  lightly  with  Mayonnaise 
dressing.  Rub  to  a  paste  the  yolks  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs  with  two 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 
Spread  between  the  slices  of  bread.     These  are  very  nice  for  a  lunch. 

Cheese  Sandwiches. 

Chop  three  ounces  of  cream  cheese  very  fine,  then  mix  it  to  a 
paste  with  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy  and  one  tablespoon  of 
butter.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread,  place  them  together  and  serve 
them  garnished  with  parsley  and  water  cress. 

Hash. 

Take  equal  parts  of  chopped  potato  and  chopped  meat,  or  two 
parts  of  potatoes  to  one  of  meat ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in 
enough  hot  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  spider ;  add  one  large  table- 
spoon of  butter.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  add  the  hash  and  let  it 
simmer  until  a  brown  crust  is  formed  ;  fold  like  an  omelet.  A  little 
chopped  onion  can  be  added  if  desired. 

Corn  Beef  Hash. 

Take  materials  left  from  a  boiled  dinner.  Take  one  part  chopped 
corned  beef  to  two  of  chopped  potato,  carrot,  cabbage  and  turnip. 
Take  one-third  more  potato  than  the  other  vegetables ;  season  with 
pepper,  and  if  not  moist  enough,  moisten  with  the  liquor  in  which  the 
meat  was  cooked.  21 


■Wedding  Invitations,  Announcements,  At  Home,  etc.    High  class  work 
produced  by  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


100 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


LADIES 

Uooft  Mere* 

Why  do  you  work  and  worry 
over  your  preparations  for 

Receptions. 

Parties,  Stc, 

when  you  can'be  served  much  better, 
without  trouble  and  but  a  trifle  more  ex- 
pense, by  going  to 


and  have  him  provide  you  all 

Refreshments,  Lunch  and  Card 

Tables,  Chairs,  Linen, 

China,  Silver, 

AND  EVERYTHING  NEEDFUL. 


mg 


Read 

This 

Clipping: 


foTTTmTTTmfTTTTTYmTTTTTmTTTTTTTTTYmmTTTTTTTTg 

"A  long  felt  want  has  been  supplied  in  the  ^ 
opening  of  the  lunch  parlors  at  Dorsetta's,  the  3 
caterer  on  Nicollet  avenue,  as  it  provides  a  ^ 
place  where  ladies  can  be  pleasantly  served.  ^ 
The  new  menu  consists  of  hot  and  cold  meats,  ^ 
potatoes,  soups  and  all  the  essentials  for  a  2 
tempting  meal.  The  rooms  are  already  popular  ^ 
as  ice  cream  parlors  and  the  new  feature  is  -^ 
meeting  with  widespread  approval  among  bus-  3 
iness  men  also."—  Tribune.  ^ 


It  will 

Interest 

You. 


|  SaAAAAAjAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA^ 
Now  the  next  time  you  are  shopping  call  and  take  lunch  at  Dorsett's. 


m— *»  oopeeeoeeeooeooeooeeoeeoeouooooh  8— — i 


TRY  SOME  OF  HIS  CHOICE 


I(oIl5,(\kQ5,Bon  Bon5,DeIiciou5  IceCr^m, 

Fruit  Sherbets  and  Confectionery. 

■SrOTTES,  ^-^.T^OlsT-A-O-E  IS  INVITED. 


4i8  9itcc«ct.     Dorsett,  The  Caterer.  712  sun^*. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  101 


Meat  Pie. 

Take  cold  meat,  beef,  turkey,  veal  or  lamb,  left  from  dinner;  re- 
move all  gristle  and  fat,  and  cut  in  thin  slices  ;  put  in  a  pudding  dish 
and  cover  with  the  gravy  left  or  with  tomato  ;  spread  mashed  potatoes 
that  are  left  from  dinner  over  the  meat.  Cover  with  beaten  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Meat  Pie.     - 

Take  nice  slices  of  any  kind  of  meat  left  from  dinner.  Cook  it  up 
in  the  gravy  or  water,  thickened  a  little.  Add  a  little  chopped  onion 
and  potato,  a  sprig  of  parsley  chopped  well,  a  little  sage  and  pepper, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  with  a  nice  baking  powder  crust.  Make  large 
incisions  in  the  top  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes.  Look  in 
pastry  for  a  recipe  for  the  crust  for  a  meat  pie. 

Scalloped  Mutton. 

Take  cold  roast  mutton  and  cut  in  thin  slices  ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  butter  a  dish;  put  in  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  a 
layer  of  meat,  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  tomato,  and  lastly  a  layer  of 
meat  and  crumbs.  Season  each  layer  with  pieces  of  butter  and  pepper 
and  salt ;  moisten  with  gravy  left  over  or  stock  of  some  kind.  Maca- 
roni can  be  used  in  place  of  oysters. 

Turkish  Rice. 

One  cup  of  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes ;  to  this  add  a  cup  ol 
stock  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  minced  onion.  While 
boiling  add  a  cup  of  rice  ;  stir  lightly  and  add  the  last  thing  a  large 
piece  of  butter ;  steam  twenty  minutes  in  a  double  cooker ;  serve  as  an 
entree  or  a  garnish  for  fried  chicken. 

Dutch  Cheese. 

Place  the  milk  in  a  pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  scald  it  until 
the  curd  separates  from  the  whey  ;  strain  in  a  cloth  and  wring  quite 
dry.  Put  in  a  bowl,  and  with  a  large  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  a  cup  of 
cream ;  mix  to  a  smooth  paste.  Roll  into  small  balls,  and  put  in  a 
cool  place ;  season  with  sage  if  you  like  the  flavor.  There  should  be  at 
least  ten  quarts  of  lobbered  milk.  2m 


Use  Chap-O-Lene  for  all  roughness  of  the  skin. 

The  lady  of  the  house  is  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 

Ladies  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  an  indispensable  article  for  the  toilet. 


102  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Dumplings. 

One  pint  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and  a  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar  or  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teacup  of  milk,  one  egg.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls into  the  soup  or  turn  out  on  the  board  and  cut  into  small 
cakes.  Do  not  let  the  soup  cease  boiling  while  the  dumplings  are  in 
it ;  they  require  about  fifteen  minutes.  Do  not  let  the  steam  escape 
but  keep  covered  closely.  Another  recipe  for  dumplings  is,  two  eggs, 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Balls  for  Soup. 

Egg  balls  are  made  by  mxing  enough  corn  starch  with  two  raw 
eggs  to  make  into  round  balls.  Drop  in  the  soup  and  cook  ten 
minutes. 

Force  meat  balls. — To  a  pound  of  chopped  beef  or  veal  add  one 
egg,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with  some  of  the  stock  in  which  the 
meat  was  cooked.     Make  into  balls  and  fry  brown  in  hot  lard. 

Lobsters. 

When  lobsters  are  purchased  alive  tie  the  claws  together  and 
plunge  into  boiling  water — about  a  gallon— in  which  is  a  tablespoon  of 
salt  and  a  teacup  of  vinegar.  Boil  for  thirty  minutes.  It  will  be  a 
bright  red.  Drain,  break  off  the  claws  and  tail,  remove  and  throw 
away  the  soft  fins  which  lie  under  the  legs.  Shake  out  the  coral  and 
tomalley.  Draw  the  body  from  the  shell,  split  the  lobster  through  the 
center  and  with  a  fork  pick  the  meat  from  the  joints.  Cut  under  side  of 
the  tail  shell,  open  and  take  out  meat  whole.  Kemember  that  the 
stomach  is  found  near  the  head  and  is  a  small  sack  in  which  is  poison- 
ous matter  and  should  be  removed,  also  the  dark  vein  found  in  the 
tail.    The  lobster  can  be  seasoned  and  prepared  in  different  ways. 

Oyster  Dressing. 

Take  one  pint  of  finely  grated  or  sifted  bread  crumbs,  add  three 
tablespoons  of  chopped  suet  or  butter,  a  spoonful  of  mixed  herbs,  half 
a  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  ;  add  one  pint  of  oysters 
cut  in  two  pieces  or  finer,  and  lastly  two  well  beaten  eggs.  If  not 
moist  enough  add  sweet  milk.  Mix  smoothly  and  stuff  turkey  or 
chicken  with  it.  2n 


IP^-The  Swinburne  Printing  Company  would  like  to  see  you  when  you  have 
any  use  for  printer's  ink. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  103 


'SE  best  butter  or  lard.  Cottosuet  is  excellent  for  pie  crust 
and  very  digestable.  Always  have  your  shortening  fresh  and 
solid.  With  the  exception  of  mince  pies,  pastry  should  be 
eaten  the  day  it  is  made.  Make  enough  paste  to  use  at  once ;  if  any  is 
left  over  keep  it  in  the  ice  chest.  Always  mix  the  under  crust  a  little 
stiffer  than  the  upper  with  flour,  this  prevents  the  juice  from  soaking 
into  the  crust.  Some  use  a  beaten  egg  and  rub  it  over  the  crust  before 
putting  in  the  filling.  Always  wet  the  edges  of  the  lower  crust  wit  i 
water  or  beaten  egg,  this  causes  the  upper  crust  to  adhere  to  the  lower 
and  prevents  the  juice  from  running  out.  Have  the  oven  hot  when  the 
pie  is  first  put  in;  this  bakes  the  lower  crust  and  prevents  the  crust 
from  being  soggy  and  raw.  Remove  from  the  tins  as  the  crust  is  apt  to 
become  damp  and  taste  of  the  tin.  Always  make  opening  in  the  upper 
crust,  this  lets  out  the  steam,  and  especially  so  in  meat  pies  of  any 
kind.  In  making  meringues  for  pies  add  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  to 
the  white  of  one  egg.  Full  the  upper  crust  on  a  little  as  it  shrinks  in 
baking.  Pies  should  be  baked  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour ; 
mince  pies,  and  pumpkin  or  squash  require  a  good  hour  and  a  slow  fire. 

Good  Pie  Crust. 

Take  two  heaping  spoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter  to  one  cup  of  flour, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cut  well  into  the  flour  with  a  knife,  and  wet  whh 
water  to  make  a  stiff  dough .  Mix  as  little  as  possible.  This  is  enough 
for  the  upper  and  under  crust  of  one  pie.  Use  cottosuet  in  place  of 
lard. 

Pie  Crust.    2. 

To  one  pint  of  sifted  flour  add  one  even  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
a  little  salt,  and  sweet  cream  enough  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  This  is 
enough  for  two  pies. 

Pie  Crust.    3. 

One-half  cup  flour  before  sifting,  one-half  cup  of  butter  or  cotto- 
suet, three  tablespoons  of  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  In  mixing  the 
shortening  and  flour  use  a  knife.  Dredge  with  flour  and  roll  your 
under  crust  stiffer  with  flour  than  the  upper.  2o 


104 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  105 

Puff  Paste. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  or  lard, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  teaspoon  of  salt,  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar. 
Mix  with  ice  water  in  a  cool  place.  Place  flour  on  the  board,  sprinkle 
over  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  egg  gradually,  beaten  up  with  a  little  ice 
water.     Mix  until  it  becomes  a  smooth  dough. 

Apple  Pie. 

Line  a  pan  with  crust ;  pare  and  slice  three  or  four  good  sized 
apples  and  spread  evenly  on  the  crust.  Sprinkle  with  a  small 
cup  of  sugar,  bits  of  butter  and  sift  a  little  cinnamon  over  it  all ;  dredge 
a  little  flour  over  the  pie  and  about  three  tablespoons  of  water.  If  the 
apples  are  not  very  sour  squeeze  the  juice  from  part  of  a  lemon  in  the 
pie.  Add  upper  crust  and  press  edges  firmly  together.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Dried   Apple  Pie. 

Put  your  apples — enough  for  a  pie — in  warm  water,  and  soak  over 
night.  In  the  morning  stew  a  few  minutes  ;  add  a  little  sliced  lemon, 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Put  in  the  pie  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the 
apple,  and  bits  of  butter. 

Crab  Apple  Pie. 

Slice  the  crabs  very  thin,  and  make  the  same  as  the  first  recipe  for 
apple  pie.  Add  a  little  more  sugar,  as  they  are  apt  to  be  more  tart 
than  apples.  These  make  a  very  rich  pie,  unequaled  in  flavor  to  any 
other  kind  of  apple  pie. 

Apple  Shortcake. 

Line  a  tin  with  any  kind  of  crust.  With  a  soft  cloth  cover  with 
melted  butter ;  put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake.  Slice  and 'cook  your 
apples,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Separate 
the  upper  crust  from  the  under  crust,  and  fill  with  the  apple.  Replace 
the  crust,  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream.  In  place  of  apple  fill  with 
fresh  berries  or  sliced  peaches. 

Cream  Pie. 

To  one  pint  of  milk  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoon  of  butter. 
Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten 
with  a  small  teacup  of  sugar  and  two  even  tablespoons  of  cornstarch. 
Bake  your  under  crust ;  fill  with  the  custard  and  spread  over  the  whites 
well  beaten  aud  sweetened  with  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Brown  in 
a  quick  oven.  2p 


106  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Cream  Fie.    2. 

Pour  a  pint  of  cream  upon  upon  a  large  cup  of  sugar ;  let  it  stand 
awhile.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  add  this  to  the  cream,  and  beat 
well.     This  will  make  two  pies  without  upper  crusts. 

Custard  Pie. 

For  one  pie  use  three  eggs  to  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  small  teaspoon  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Let  it  bake 
until  it  custards,  but  does  not  water. 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  cocoanut,  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar. 
Use  the  whites  for  a  meringue  for  the  top.  Bake  with  an  under  crust 
only.  Instead  of  the  dessicated  cocoanut  one  cocoanut  can  be  grated 
and  used. 

Lemon  Pie.  • 

One  lemon ;  grate  the  rind,  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice ;  put  all 
in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  it  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  When  cool  strain, 
and  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
two  teaspoons  of  corn  starch.  Bake  your  under  crust,  fill  with  the 
custard ;  spread  on  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  sweetened 
with  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.     Eeturn  to  oven  and  brown. 

Lemon  Pie.     2. 

One  lemon  grated  rind  and  juice,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  teaspoon  of 
of  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Prepare  as  the  recipe  above  says,  leaving  out  the  boiling 
water. 

Pie  Plant  Pie. 

Cut  up  pie  plant  in  small  pieces  enough  for  one  pie ;  add  one  well 
beaten  egg,  a  large  cup  of  sugar.  Mix  well.  Putin  the  crust  and  bake 
slowly  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Squash  Pie. 

A  good  cup  of  stewed  and  sifted  squash,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Beat  all  together,  and  add 
milk ;  warm  and  bake  in  a  deep  tin  with  a  rich  under  crust. 

Rice  Pie. 

One-half  cup  of  boiled  rice,  one  cup  of  milk,  one-half  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  large  piece  of  butter.  Flavor  with  a  little  cinnamon,  and  put  in 
a  handful  of  raisins  seeded.    Bake  with  under  crast  only.  2q 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  107 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Cut  a  pumpkin  into  thin  slices,  and  boil  until  tender  in  as  little 
water  as  possible.  Stir  often  to  prevent  its  scorching.  Mash  the 
pumpkin  and  let  it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  all  the  water 
has  dried  away.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  it 
well,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  ginger  and  cloves, 
one  nutmeg.  Let  it  cook  slowly.  This  will  be  enough  for  several  pies 
and  can  be  kept  in  the  ice  chest.  For  one  pie  take  a  large  cup  of 
the  pumpkin,  a  pint  of  milk  and  one  egg.  (A  little  cream  is  nice.) 
Sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  a  good  hour  in  a  slow 
oven.  ^ 

Pork  Pie. 

Line  a  pan  with  crust,  pare  and  slice  good,  sour  apples,  put^a  layer 
in  the  bottom,  seasoning  with  sugar  and  allspice.  Shave  very  thin 
slices  of  salt  pork,  and  put  a  layer  on  top  of  the  apples,  and  pep- 
per. Repeat  this  until  the  pan  is  full.  Cover  with  a  crust,  and  bake 
two  and  one-half  hours. 

Mince  Meat. 

Boil  six  or  eight  pounds  of  good  beef  tender.  Take  off  scum  as  it 
rises,  and  salt  just  before  it  is  done.  Put  away  to  cool.  Remove  all 
bones  and  bits  of  gristle,  chop  very  fine.  Make  the  mince  meat  in  the 
proportion  of  two  bowls  of  chopped  apples  to  one  of  meat,  and  one  cup 
of  suet  chopped  fine.  To  this  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon, 
a  cup  of  molasses,  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  cider,  one-half  pint 
of  boiled  cider,  one  pound  of  raisins  chopped  and  seeded,  one-half 
pound  of  currants,  one  large  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
nutmeg,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  black 
pepper.  A  pint  of  cranberries  cooked  and  put  through  a  sieve  gives  a 
nice  flavor.  Cook  this  preparation  until  all  the  apples  are  cooked.  It 
requires  a  good  hour  or  longer.  If  not  juicy  enough  add  syrup  from 
sweet  pickles,  or  canned  currants.  This  quantity,  doubled  and  put 
away  in  a  jar  in  a  cold  place,  will  keep  all  winter.  For  baking  take 
out  enough  for  a  pie  ;  if  nof  moist  enough  add  the  juice  of  some  kind  of 
canned  fruit.  If  none  is  to  be  had,  a  little  hot  water.  If  not  sweet 
enough  sprinkle  on  a  little  more  sugar,  bits  of  butter,  a  few  whole 
raisins,  and  lastly  two  tablespoons  of  brandy.  The  brandy  adds 
greatly  to  the  flavor  of  the  pies.  In  making  this  mince  meat  one  must 
be  guided  by  their  own  judgment  as  to  sweetness  and  seasoning. 
Mince  pies  must  be  baked  in  a  slow  oven  some  length  of  time,  at  least 
an  hour.  Do  not  make  too  rich  a  crust  for  them,  as  they  are  rich  in 
themselves.  2r 


108  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Platte  Chlorides. 

The  Household  Disinfectant 

An  odorless  liquid.     Powerful,  Reliable,   Prompt,  Cheaper  than 
Chloride  of  Lime  or  Carbolic  Acid       Indorsed  by  23,000  physicians. 
Daily  employed  by  hundreds  of  thousauds  of  careful  housekeepers. 
Sold  in  Quart  Bottles  only,  by  Drug-gists  Everywhere. 
PREPARED  ONLY  BY 

HENRY  B.  PLATT,  36  Piatt  St.,  Now  York. 


COTOSUET 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  109 


Washington  Pie. 

Cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  small  half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  two 
layers,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  jam.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top, 
and  serve  when  partly  cold  as  a  dessert. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Bake  two  crusts,  using  any  recipe  for  nice  rich  cruet.  Put  bits  of 
butter  between  so  as  to  separate  easily.  Cook  cranberries,  enough 
for  a  pie ;  sweeten  to  taste  just  before  removing  from  the  fire.  Place 
the  jelly  between  the  crusts  when  slightly  cooled.  Sprinkle  powdered 
sugar  on  top. 

Peach  Cobbler. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  add  one-half  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  salt, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Mix  with  either  milk  or  water.  Mix 
soft,  and  line  a  dish  with  an  under  crust.  Put  melted  butter  between, 
and  lay  on  an  upper  crust.  Bake,  and  when  done,  split  open  and  fill 
with  peaches,  sliced  and  sweetened,  or  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit.  Serve 
with  cream.    Whipped  cream  is  delicious  placed  on  the  top. 

Chopped  Cranberry  Pie. 

One  quart  of  cranberries  chopped,  add  two  cups  oi  sugar  and  half 
a  cup  of  molasses.  Dissolve  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  in  a  little 
cold  water,  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiling  water.  Stir  all 
together,  and  bake  with  two  crusts.  This  will  make  three  pies. 
Divide  the  recipe  for  one  large  pie.       ^ 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

When  the  potatoes  are  dry  and  mealy,  take  a  quart  after  they  have 
been  pared,  boiled  and  mashed;  add  a  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  little 
sal't,  cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake  with  one  crust.  Half  of  this 
will  make  one  good  pie. 

Short  Cake. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  half 
a  cup  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  enough  sweet 
milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  soft ;  do  not  mix.  Roll  in  two  layers 
and  place  pieces  of  butter  between  so  they  will  separate  easily.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  Spread  fruit  between  the  layers  and  on  top.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  will  make  four 
layers  if  desired.  Strawberries,  raspberries  or  peaches  can  be  used 
for  fruit.  2s 


110  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Berry  Pie. 

Always  allow  two  heaping  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch  or  one  tablespoon  of  flour  to  one  pie.  Put  your  berries  in  the 
tin  lined  with  an  under  crust,  and  sprinkle  sugar  and  flour  over  them. 
Use  your  judgment  as  to  quantity  of  sugar  according  to  their  tartness 
or  juiciness.  Gooseberries  and  cranberries  or  green  grapes  require  a 
large  quantity  of  sugar.  Press  the  two  crusts  together  firmly  to  pre- 
vent the  juice  from  running  out.  Some  take  a  strip  of  clean  white 
cloth  wet  and  fold  around  the  edge.  When  the  pie  is  taken  out  strip 
off  the  cloth,  and  the  edge  is  nice  and  brown,  .not  burnt.  In  using 
canned  fruit  use  very  little  sugar,  and  a  little  more  flour. 

Gooseberry  Pie. 

Take  gooseberries,  either  green  or  ripe,  and  stew  a  little  until  they 
break.  Sweeten  well;  dredge  with  a  very  little  flour,  and  bits  of 
of  butter.  Pour  in  a  pie  tin  lined  with  paste,  and  cover  with  an  upper 
crust.    Green  currants  can  be  used  this  way  also. 

Crust  for  Meat  Pies. 

One  quart  flour,  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  a  large  teaspoon  of  soda 
sifted  in  the  flour,  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter  or  lard.  Mix  soft. 
Or  the  above  recipe  can  be  used. 

Tarts. 

Make  a  nice  puff  paste,  roll  out  thin ;  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Cut 
out  the  center  of  some  of  them  and  lay  on  the  large  ones.  Fill  with 
jelly  or  jam.  2t 


Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

HAVE  YOU  ASTHMA  OK,  BRONCHITIS  ? 

Dr.  R.  Schiffmann,  St.  Paul,  Minn.,  will  mail  a  trial  package  of 
"Schiffmann's  Asthma  Cure"  free  to  any  sufferer.  He  advertises  by 
giving  it  away.  Never  fails  to  give  instatnt  relief  in  worst  cases  and 
cures  where  others  fail,  Name  this  Cook  Book  and  send  address  for  a 
free  trial  package.     Weinhold  Drug  Co.  always  keep  a  supply  in  stock. 

No  ashes  are  lighter  than  those  of  incense,  and  few  things  hum  out  sooner. 

—Lander. 

gXF~  Every  business  man  can  profit  if  he  will  carefully  follow  the  recipe  on 
page  32. 

High  class  printing  and  engraving.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 
Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  a  pertect  cougn  cure. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  HI 


FICKLE S  are  considered  indispensible  on  a  table.  Pickles  are 
made  from  almost  everything  in  the  shape  of  vegetables  and 
fruit.  Any  kind  of  fruit  that  can  be  preserved  is  nice  for  sweet 
pickles,  including  the  rind  of  water  melons,  and  ripe  cucumbers. 
Home-made  pickles  are  tbe  best ;  for  usually  the  best  vinegar  is  em- 
ployed in  making  them,  and  good  cider  vinegar  is  very  necessary  to 
the  best  pickles.  Never  use  any  thing  but  a  porcelain  kettle  in  mak- 
ing them.  Keep  in  a  dry  cool  place.  If  a  white  mold  appears  on  the 
top  of  the  vinegar  scald  the  vinegar  over,  and  put  in  pieces  of  horse- 
radish or  mustard  seed.  Seal  sweet  pickles  while  hot.  In  cooking 
sweet  pickles  cook  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  silver  fork. 
In  making  a  syrup  for  sweet  pickles  use  three  pints  of  best  brown 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  cider  vinegar.  If  ground  spices  are  used  tie  them 
up  in  a  little  bag,  and  throw  into  the  hot  syrup.  Watch  them  closely 
and  as  soon  as  a  white  scum  appears  scald  again,  and  if  necessary  add 
more  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices.  Whole  cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  are 
the  only  spices  necessary. 

Pickled  Beans. 

Take  young  butter  beans  and  cook  until  tender.  Put  in  brine 
made  of  one  cup  of  coarse  salt  and  two  quarts  of  water.  Let  them 
stand  a  day  or  so.  Take  out  and  drain.  Take  two  quarts  of  good 
cider  vinegar,  add  a  spoonful  each  of  pepper,  ginger,  cloves  and  mace. 
Boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  on  the  beans  while  hot.  Pour  off  and  boil 
the  vinegar  for  two  days  in  succession  aud  put  back  on  the  beans. 

Pickled  Beets. 

Boil  fine,  red  beets  until  they  are  tender.  Put  in  cold  water,  and 
slip  off  the  skin,  and  cut  in  slices  or  any  shape.  Cover  with  a  vinegar 
made  the  same  as  for  beans.    A  cup  of  sugar  can  be  added.  2u 


112 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


To  Appreciate  Good  Cooking 

One  must  be  in  a  good  state  of  health.  Is  it  necessary  to  go 
to  a  doctor  for  every  little  ache  and  pain?  If  you  do  he  will 
laugh  at  you  and  charge  you  a  good,  round  fee.  How  can 
this  be  avoided?  By  keeping  in  your  house  a  line  of  good 
family  remedies,  that  have  stood  the  test  of  many  years,  being 
used  by  millions  for  all  ordinary  complaints.  There  are  many 
lines  of  family  medicines,  but  the  one  that  stands  head  and 
shoulders  above  all  others  in  this  country  is  "  Dr.  Ward's," 
manufactured  by  The  J.  R.  Watkins  Medical  Company, 
Winona,  Minn.     Read  what  the  people  have  to  say  about 

Dr.  Ward's  Vegetable  Anodine  Liniment 


Wadena,  Minn.,  Oct.  31, 1893. 
I  have  used  Dr.  Ward's  Liniment  for  four  years,  and 
have  found  it  a  great  benefit  to  my  family.    It  beats 
anything  I  have  ever  obtained  for  vomiting  in  children. 
It  is  also  very  good  for  colic  and  pains.    In  fact,  it  is  the 
best  general  purpose  medicine  I  have  ever  had  in  my 
house.    It  has  saved  me  some  doctor  bills.  I  would  not 
be  without  it  as  long  as  I  can  get  it. 

Yours  respectfully, 

A.  P.  Johnson 

Henifer,  Utah,  Dec.  2, 1893. 
Having  used  your  liniment  for  about  two  years,  for 
a  number  of  diseases,  such  as  bad  colds,  cuts  and 
bruises;    also  for  pains  in  the  bowels,  coughs,  colic, 
cramps  and  many  other  diseases  common  to  humanity, 
I  can  highly  recommend  it  to  any  person  who  wants  to 
use  a  first-class  remedy.    Thanking  you  for  the  great, 
good  you  are  doing  humanity,  I  remain, 

O.  H.  R.  Stevens. 

Brandon,  Buchanan  Co.,  Iowa,  Dec.  18, 1893. 
I  have  taken  six  bottles  of  your  Gen-De-Can-Dra  for 
the  blood,  and  I  think  it  the  best  patent  medicine  I  ever 
took  for  a  blood  purifier.    I  have  HAD  RHEUMATISM 
FOR  OVER  THIRTY  YEARc,  and  never  had  anything 
to  help  me  as  it  has. 

Yours  truly, 

F.  W.  Thatcher. 

Dr.  Ward's 

Gen-De-Can-Dra, 

For  the  Blood. 

Dr.  Ward's 

Petro-Carbo 

Salve. 

Manlius,  Bureau  Co.,  III.,  Jan.  15, 18  4. 
I  write  you  in  regard  to  your  Petro-Carbo  Salve.    1 
think  it  is  THE  BEST  SALVE  ON  RECORD  for  cuts, 
old  sores,  bruises,  galls  and  anything  that  a  salve  is 
wanted  for.    It  just  fills  the  bill.    I  would  not  be  with- 
out it  in  the  house  for  twice  the  price  of  it.    In  fact  I 
keep  a  supply  of  all  your  remedies,   and  find  them  all 
that  they  are  guaranteed  to  be.    You  can  use  this  if 
you  see  nt.                             Yours  truly, 

Samuel  L.  Brown. 

for  SALE  by  THE  WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  113 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  one  peck  of  small  cucumbers.  Select  all  about  the  same 
size.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  and  sprinkle  on  the  top  a  large  cup  of  salt,  and 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Let  them  stand  a  day  or  so. 
Drain  off  the  water  and  put  the  cucumbers  on  the  stove  in  cold  vine- 
gar. Let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Add  to  the  vinegar  a  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  a  few  slices  of  green  and  red  peppers,  apiece  of  horse-radish,  a 
few  sticks  of  cinnamon,  a  few  whole  cloves,  and  some  whole  mustard 
seed.  These  pickles  can  be  either  kept  in  a  stone  jar  or  sealed  up 
while  hot  in  bottles. 

Chow  Chow. 

Take  half  a  peck  of  small  cucumbers  and  let  them  stand  in  brine 
for  several  days.  Put  on  two  quarts  of  vinegar  in  which  has  been 
thrown  a  tablespoon  each  of  mustard  seed,  celery  seed,  three  green 
peppers,  a  few  small  onions  and  a  little  piece  of  alum.  Boil  the  pickles 
twenty  minutes  in  it.  Add  to  the  vinegar  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Scald 
the  vinegar  over  for  three  mornings.  Take  four  ounces  of  mustard, 
and  mix  with  the  vinegar ;  add  the  pickles  and  put  them  away  in  a  cool 
place. 

Small,  green  tomatoes,  beans,  small  white  onions,  mixed  with 
small  cucumbers  can  be  made  into  pickles  the  same  way.  An  ounce  of 
tumeric  adds  to  pickles. 

Tomato  Pickles. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  six  large  onions.  Slice  them 
and  put  on  them  a  cup  of  salt,  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Drain 
well,  and  cook  them  in  a  gallon  of  cider  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown 
sugar,  half  a  pound  of  mustard  seed,  two  green  peppers  chopped  fine, 
a  tablespoon  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  ginger.  Boil 
twenty  minutes. 

Chopped  Pickles. 

Take  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  chop  them  fine.  Mix  two  cups 
of  salt  with  them,  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Drain  thoroughly ; 
cake  three  times  as  much  chopped  cabbage.  Let  the  cabbage  stand 
with  salt  on  the  same  time  as  the  tomatoes.  Cover  each  with  vinegar 
and  let  them  stand  awhile  longer.  Mix  together  by  putting  in  a  jar  in 
layers,  and  on  each  layer  put  chopped  green  peppers,  whole  mustard 
seed,  horse-radish,  cayenne  pepper.  Cover  with  a  gallon  of  hot  cider 
vinegar  in  which  has  been  put  a  cup  of  sugar.  A  few  onions  chopped 
fine  can  be  added.  2v 

How  to  make  Us  happy,  read  the  recipe  on  page  32  and  follow  it. 


1 14  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles. 

Cut  ripe,  solid  cucumbers  into  long  pieces,  about  three  inches 
long.  Remove  all  seeds.  Cook  in  water  and  salt  until  tender.  Soak 
in  alum  water  over  night,  using  a  lump  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut.  This  hardens  them,  and  makes  them  firm.  Drain  well  and  pour 
over  them  a  syrup  made  of  three  pints  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  vinegar. 
Add  stick  cinnamon,  whole  cloves  and  mace  ;  about  two  tablespoons 
of  each.  Scald  the  syrup  and  replace  it  on  the  pickles  three  mornings 
in  succession.  Then  seal  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  Be  careful  not  to 
cook  too  soft.     Use  about  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  two  quarts  of  water. 

Water  Melon  Pickles. 

Pare  off  the  green  rind,  and  cut  in  oblong  pieces.  Make  and  pre- 
pare the  syrup  the  same  as  the  above  recipe  says.  Take  off  all  of  the 
red  part  of  the  melon.  Pickle  only  the  white  rind.  If  a  scum  rises 
skim  the  syrup. 

Peach  Pickles. 

Pare  freestone  peaches.  Put  in  a  jar  and  pour  over  them  a  syrup 
made  of  three  pints  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  vinegar.  Skim  the  syrup 
well,  and  pour  on  the  fruit  boiling  hot.  Repeat  this  for  several  days. 
Put  pieces  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  between  the  layers  of  peaches  and 
stick  some  of  the  whole  cloves  in  the  fruit.  Lastly  scald  the  fruit, 
vinegar  and  spices  together.  Have  the  fruit  the  same  color  through- 
out.   If  there  is  not  syrup  enough  to  cover  them  well  prepare  more. 

Pear  Pickles. 

Cut  the  fruit  in  halves  and  pare  if  large,  if  small  leave  whole.  Pre- 
pare and  make  the  same  as  peach  pickles . 

Spiced  Currants. 

Put  a  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  allspice  in  a 
bag  and  boil  with  four  pounds  of  currants,  two  of  sugar  and  one  pint 
of  vinegar.  Some  add  a  pound  of  raisins.  Seal  while  hot  in  glass  jars. 
Spice  blackberries  the  same  way ;  do  not  use  quite  so  much  sugar. 
Leave  out  the  spices  if  one  prefers.  2w 


The  place  to  get  high  class  printing  is  at  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 
The  housekeeper  should  not  fail  to  study  page  32. 
Caswell's  Beef,  Wine  and  Iron  is  the  Ideal  Tonic. 
Chap-O-Lene  will  positively  cure  chapped  or  rough  skin. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  US 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 


fHESE  are  usually  prepared  with  equal  weights  of  sugar  and 
fruit.  Most  people  prefer  preserves  not  so  sweet,  and  use  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  and  even  less. 
Prepare  the  syrup  and  clarify  it,  then  put  in  the  fruit.  Fruit  like 
quinces,  citron,  melon  rinds,  cherries,  currants,  etc.,  harden  if  first  put 
into  the  syrup.  Cook  in  a  little  water  until  tender,  or  in  a  weak  syrup 
first,  then  add  them  to  the  syrup.  In  very  soft  ripe  fruits  pour  the 
boiling  syrup  on  them  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  The  secret  of 
keeping  fruit  is  to  have  the  covers  of  the  cans  fit  securely,  and  keep 
the  fruit  in  a  dark,  cool  place. 

In  jellies  extract  the  juice  first  by  cooking  the  fruit  in  just  enough 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning,  and  strain  the  juice  through  a  coarse 
flannel  or  cotton  bag.  Hang  the  bag  over  the  kettle  and  let  it  drain.  The 
rule  is  usually  equal  measures  of  fruit  and  sugar ;  sweeten  less  if  pre- 
ferred. Boil  juice  first,  skim  and  add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  it  jellies 
when  a  little  of  it  is  cooled.  When  jelly  is  put  away  cover  the  top 
with  pieces  of  writing  paper  brushed  with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Some 
use  a  little  butter  to  grease  the  papers  or  wet  them  in  brandy. 

Citron  Preserves.\ 

Pare  off  the  rind  and  cut  in  thin  slices  two  inches  long.  Add 
equal  weights  of  sugar  and  fruit  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Before 
adding  the  sugar  boil  tr^e  citron  in  a  little  water,  tender;  add  two 
sliced  lemons  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Kemove  the  fruit  and  boil  the 
syrup  down  some,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  awhile  and  seal  in  cans  or 
jars. 

Peach  Preserves. 

Pare  the  peaches  and  remove  most  of  the  pits ;  leave  some  to 
give  the  syrup  a  flavor.  Make  a  syrup  of  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit.  Add  water  enough  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Skim 
and  clarify.  Add  the  fruit  in  small  quantities  at  a  time  and  cook 
eight  to  ten  minutes.  Skim  out  in  a  jar  and  put  in  more  fruit.  When 
all  done  fil  the  cans  with  the  syrup  and  seal  securely.  A  good  plan  is 
to  pour  off  the  syrup  the  next  day  and  scald,  and  return  to  the  can. 


116  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Pear  Preserves. 

Pare,  cut  in  halves,  prepare  and  make  exactly  the  same  as  peach 
preserves. 

Plum  Preserves. 

Take  plums,  wash  them  and  prick  each  plum  and  put  them  in  a 
stone  jar.  Make  a  thick  syrup  of  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  fruit. 
Pour  the  syrup  on  the  fruit,  and  let  it>tand  over  night ;  repeat  this'for 
three  days.  Put  fruit  and  syrup  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  boil  for  an 
hour.     Put  in  stone  jars. 

Quince  Preserves. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  or  slice  your  quinces ;  boil  till  tender  in 
a  little  water.  Take  out  and  drain.  Add  equal  weight  of  "sugar  to 
the  water,  replace  the  fruit  and  boil  until  clear.  Take  equal  parts  of 
quinces  and  quarters  of  nice  sweet  apples  and  preserve  as  for  quinces. 
Cook  the  parings  and  cores  and  use  the  water  for  jelly,  or  add  it  to  the 
sugar  for  the  syrup  of  the  quinces. 

Tomato  Preserves. 

Take  green  tomatoes  that  are  just  beginning  to  turn ;  if  red  a  little 
all  the  better.  Pare  and  slice.  Take  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  fruit 
and  cook  all  together  until  the  syrup  is  thick.  Add  one  or  two  lemons 
sliced  for  additional  flavor. 

Cider  Apple  Sauce. 

Pare  and  quarter  nice  sweet  apples,  put  them  in  boiled  cider 
enough  to  cover  them  and  boil  until  tender.  Any  kind  of  apples  can 
be  used. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Wash  and  quarter  large  crabs ;  cook  in  water  enough  to  keep  them 
from  burning.  Cook  to  a  pulp,  strain  according  to  directions.  Take 
three-quarters  of  a  bowl  of  sugar  to  a  bowl  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice 
twenty  minutes ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  Try  it 
to  see  if  it  jellies. 

Preserved  Berries. 

To  preserve  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  cherries  or  black- 
berries, take  a  bowl  of  fruit  and  a  bowl  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in 
a  very  little  water  and  add  the  fruit ;  cook  until  soft ;  skim  as  it  needs  it. 
Cherries  should  be  stoned,  but  use  some  of  the  pits  for  flavor.  2y 


"The  cook  will  find  something  interesting  on  page  32. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  H7 


Brandy  Peaches. 

Prepare  peaches  as  the  recipe  for  preserved  peaches  says,  and 
just  as  the  syrup  is  removed  from  the  fire,  add  half  a  cup  of  brandy  to 
a  pound  of  fruit. 

Grape  Jelly. 

Eub  the  fruit  through  a  sieve  ;  add  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  pulp 
or  three-quarters  as  much  sugar  as  pulp.  Boil  the  juice  twenty  minutes, 
and  add  the  sugar.    Boil  until  it  jellies. 

Quince  Jelly. 

Use  the  best  parts  of  the  fruit  for  preserves,  and  cook  the  skins, 
cores  and  hard  part  of  the  quince  for  jelly.  Boil  in  enough  water  to 
cover.  Mash  and  drain .  Add  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  juice.  Boil 
until  it  jellies. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Do  not  'have  the  currants  over-ripe.  Take  equal  parts  of  red  and 
white  currants  if  you  can  get  them.  Pick  over  and  remove  all  leaves 
and  poor  fruit.  Mash  them  in  a  kettle  and  drain  in  a  flannel  bag  for 
several  hours.  Take  a  bowl  of  sugar  to  a  bowl  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice 
twenty  minutes.  Skim  thoroughly ;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes 
longer;  turn  into  glasses  and  let  them  remain  where  the  sun  can  shine 
on  them  several  hours  before  sealing.  Cover  them  with  a  paper 
dipped  in  brandy. 

Berry  Jam. 

Pick  over  and  mash  the  fruit ;  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit.  Boil  until  the  jam  looks  dry  and  glistening,  and  no  moisture 
gathers.  This  answers  for  raspberries,  strawberries  or  blackberries. 
Equal  parts  of  red  and  black  raspberries  make  delicious  jam. 

Grape  Jam. 

Stew  the  grapes  in  a  little  water  and  press  the  fruit  through  a 
colander,  adding  a  little  water  to  get  all  the  pulp  through.  Add  sugar 
and  make  like  the  jam  above.  This  answers  for  plums  and  goose- 
berries. 

Wine  Jelly. 

Dissolve  one  box  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water ;  add  four 
coffee  cups  of  sugar  and  the  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons ;  a  little  stick 
cinnamon.  Let  the  gelatine  stand  an  hour ;  add  the  sugar,  lemon, 
three  pints  of  boiling  water  and  one  pint  of  sherry.  Strain  into  molds 
and  let  it  stand  until  thick.  2z 


118 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


DR.  SCOTT': 
ELECTRIC 


HAIR  CURLER 


GIVEN 
AW1Y. 


At  the  urgent  solicitations  of  many  of  our  patrons  and  agents,  we  have  just  pro- 
duced this  new  and  beautiful  Electric  "High.  Hip"  Corset.  To  quickly  introduce  it 
to  readers  of  the  Common  Sense  Cook  Book,  The  Pall-Mall  Electric  Association  of 
London  and  New  York,  make  the  following  offer:  If  you  cannot  get  it  at  your  near- 
est store,  remit  at  once  the  price,  $1.25,  with  15  cents  added  for  postage  and  pack- 
ing. We  will  then  send  you  (fkee)  with  the  Corsei,  one  of  Dr  Scott's  Electric  Hair 
Curlers,  retailing  at  50  cents,  and  "The  Doctor's  Story,"  an  invaluable  book 
(price,  25  cents).  It  is  an  improvment  over  any  other  "High  Hip"  Corset  ever  made, 
both  in  elegance  of  shape  and  quality  of  material  and  finish.  In  shape  it  is  French, 
in  quality  and  finish  it  excels  the  English  styies.  United  with  all  this  they  possess 
the  marvelous  virtues  of  Electro-Magnetism  peculiar  to  all  of  Dr.  Scott's  Electric 
Corsets.  Therefore  with  this  combination  of  excellencies  they  are  unrivalled. 
Avail  yourself  of  this  offer  NOW. 


It  is  made  of  fine  Alex- 
ander cloth  in  drab  and 
white,  in  sizes  18  to  30 
inches,  it  is  an  unusually 
strong  and  durable  arti- 
cle, and  a  perfect  fit.  It 
possesses  strong  Electro- 
Magnetic  curative  quali- 
ties and  as  such  is  cheap 
at  $5.00.  We  invite  you  to 
make  a  test  of  these  won- 
derful Corsets. 

The  price  of  this  Corset 
is  $1.25,  but  to  thost; 
Ladies  remitting  for  it  we 
will  forward  as  below. 

So  that  for  the  amount 
you  remit  you  receive 
$2.00  in  value. 

This  offer  is  made  to  in- 
troduce this  Corset  to  the 
readers  of  the  Common 
Sense  Cook  Book. 

"The  Doctor  s  Story"  is 
an  eminently  interesting 
work. 


The  cut  below  illustrates 
Dr.  Scott's  Electric  Curl- 
er. It  is  remarkably  pop- 
ular with  Ladies  and  Gen- 
tlemen. By  its  aid  the 
hair  or  beard  can  be  curl- 
ed in  any  desired  style  in 
from  one  to  two  minutes. 
It  produces  the  "Langtry 
Style,"  the  "Patti  Bang," 
the  "Montague  Curl,"  and 
any  other  form  desired  by 
ladies  wearing  their  hair 
in  the  fashionable  "loose 
and  fluffy"  mode  Those 
who  wear  crimps  or  other 
forms  of  false  hair  will 
find  this  Electric  Curler  a 
very  useful  article.  It 
does  not  break  off  and 
ruin  the  hair  like  the  or- 
dinary crimping  process, 
and  in  wet  and  hot  weath- 
er it  works  as  quickly  as 
jn  cold. 


'  1  Corset,    Retail,                                   $1.25 
1  Hair  Curler,  Retail,                                .50 
1  "Doctor's    Story,"  Retail,                     .25 

P: 

dee,  50  Cents. 

WBMUH~7T  '  ■** 

Dr.  Scott,  New  York:  London,  England. 

Your  "Crimper  and  Curler"  works  charmingly.  Its  effect  causes  universal  ad- 
miration. They  are  most  simple  to  use.  I  consider  them  worth  a  guinea  apiece  to 
those  who  devote  much  attention  to  the  ever  changing  arrangement  of  the  hair. 

L.  Langtry. 

Remit  price  to  Dr.  Scott,  842  Broadway,  New  York,  and  to  insure  safe  delivery, 
add  15  cents  f<>r  postage.  Remit  in  Post-Office  Money-Order,  Draft  or  Currency  in 
Registered  Letter,  payable  to 

CEO.  A.  SCOTT,  842  Broadway,  N.  Y. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  119 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

Prepare  the  juice  as  given  in  the  directions ;  add  four  cups  of  sugar 
to  every  quart  of  juice.  Cook  until  it  jellies  ;  make  it  sweeter  if  you  pre- 
fer it  very  sweet.     The  above  is  very  nice  for  cold  meats. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Choose  fine  oranges,  about  a  dozen ;  put  them  whole  in  a  stew  pan 
with  wate/  enough  to  cover  and  stew  until  tender.  Change  the  water 
two  or  three  times.  Drain ;  take  off  the  rind,  remove  the  seeds  and  boil 
ten  minutes  longer.  Add  the  peel  cut  in  strips  and  boil  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons ;  cool  and  put 
away.  3a 

Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

^^Advertisers  are  requested  to  read  the  recipe  on  page  32. 

What's  in  a  Name  ? 

"No,"  said  the  fair  young  maid,  as  she  listened,  to  congratulations  tinctured 
with  malice,  envy  and  all  uncharitableness;  "Guggenheimer  is  neither  a 
beautiful  nor  a  distinguished  name.  But  when  it  goes  with  one  of  the  largest 
ready-made  pants  businesses  on  West  Broadway,  it's  a  very  reasonably  decent 
sort  of  a  Christmas  present;  and  I  want  you  to  understand  that  I've  got  it." 

^^^•Caswell's  Blood  Cleaner  will  purify  the  blood. 

Few  love  to  hear  the  sins  they  love  to  act.— Shakespeare. 

lS^t-The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  Ave.  N.,  high  class 
book  and  job  printers. 

A  Master  of  Fiction. 

Applicant— I  understand  you  have  a  place  for  a  writer  of  pure  fiction. 
Publisher — I  have.    Are  you  one? 
"I  think  so." 

"What  have  you  done  in  that  line?" 

"Written  several  books  for  railroads,  descriptive  of  the  attractions  of  their 
summer  resort  regions,  and—" 

"That  is  sufficient!    You  may  go  to  work  at  once." 

l^fc..Chap-0-Lene,  for  the  complexion. 

.     As  Far  as  the  Surprise  Went. 

"And  you  really  were  surprised,  Henry,  dear?"  said  the  young  wife,  gazing 
fondly  into  his  eyes. 

"Yes,  indeed,  dear,"  he  replied  with  emphasis,  as  he  gazed  upon  the  pattern 
of  the  smoking-jacKet;  "I  might  even  say  startled."— Judge. 


_  .High  class  work  pays.  When  in  need  of  anything  in  the  printing  line,  call 
on  The  Swinburne  Printing  Co.,  printing,  lithographing,  embossing,  book-binding, 
paper-ruling.    'Phone  253. 

This  world  is  but  a  paradox. 

And  plainly  does  this  show 
In  the  fact  that  the  surest  "coming  man" 

Is  the  man  with  lots  of  go. 

—Albany  Times. 


120  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


PUDDINGS. 


rgVREPARE  your  butter,  eggs  and  sugar  as  for  cake.  Do  not  put  in 
[)  too  much  sugar,  as  it  is  apt  to  make  the  pudding  heavy.  Pud- 
dings are  either  boiled,  baked  or  steamed.  If  boiled  use  a  bag 
made  of  fine  drilling  with  a  tape  run  in  the  top,  or  a  tin  mold  with 
a  cloth  tied  securely  over  it.  Always  flour  your  bag  or  cloth  tied  over 
the  mold.  Let  the  water  entirely  cover  the  bag ;  leave  space  in  the 
bag  or  mold  for  the  pudding  to  swell ;  turn  it  over  frequently.  Boiled 
puddings  require  more  time  than  the  others.  Rice,  bread  and  fruit 
puddings  require  a  slow  fire,  and  some  time  in  baking.  Batter  and 
corn  starch  puddings,  a  quick  oven.  Steaming  answers  all  purposes 
and  is  the  most  convenient  and  wholesome.  Have  your  water  boiling 
and  steamer  hot  when  the  pudding  is  first  put  on,  and  do  not  let  the 
water  stop  boiling.  Replenish  if  necessary  from  the  tea  kettle  in  which 
the  water  is  hot.  Do  not  uncover  and  allow  the  steam  to  escape  until 
the  time  is  up.  If  these  directions  are  followed  a  light,  wholesome 
pudding  is  the  result,  if  not,  a  soggy,  heavy  one?  In  making  custards 
for  puddings  bring  your  milk  to  a  boil,  and  then  add  your  sugar  and 
salt,  and  lastly,  the  well  beaten  eggs.  If  corn  starch  is  used,  either 
dissolve  in  a  littld  cold  milk  or  stir  thoroughly  in  the  sugar ;  otherwise 
the  mixture  will  be  lumpy.  Stir  constantly  and  cook  always  in  a 
double  cooker ;  add  your  flavorings  after  removing  from  the  stove. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately.  To  keep  your  custard  from  curdling 
a  good  plan  is  to  add  your  sugar  to  the  boiling  milk  and  then  the 
eggs. 

Apple  Pudding. 

One  egg,  small  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  in  place 
of  sweet  milk  use  sour  milk,  or  butter  milk,  and  one-half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda.  Line  sides  and  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with  quarters  of 
apples ;  pour  oh  the  butter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  a  cream  or  common  sauce.    (See  sauces.)  3b 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  121 

Apple  Dumplings. 

Make  a  crust  of  one  pint  of  rich  butter  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
and  a  quart  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut 
dough  in  four  inch  squares.  Lay  several  slices  of  apples  on  them, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  pieces  of  butter.  Roll  up 
and  tuck  in  the  ends.  Prick  deeply  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  a  brisk  oven 
until  the  apples  are  well  cooked.  Serve  with  a  whipped  cream  sauce,  or 
sweetened  cream.    A  baking  powder  crust  can  be  used. 

Apple  Koker. 

One  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  cups 
of  sifted  flour ;  sift  all  together.  Rub  in  a  lump  of  butter,  one  egg 
beaten  light,  and  a  cup  of  milk.  Roll  half  an  inch  thick,  and  place  in 
a  shallow  baking  pan.  Press  down  quarters  of  apples  placed  in 
parallel  rows  on  top  of  the  dough,  edge  down.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  the 
apples,  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Bake  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  with 
a  common  sauce. 

Apple  Betty. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  of  chopped  tart  apples,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  water. 
Butter  a  deep  dish,  put  apples  and  brumbs  in  alternate  layers.  Sprinkle 
the  sugar,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  a  little  cinnamon  over  the  apples. 
Finish  with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Uncover  and  brown  quickly.  Eat 
with  cream  or  sweet  sauce  flavored  with  lemon. 

Delicious  Bread  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Beat  yolks,  add  milk  and 
crumbs  and  butter ;  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Do 
not  let  it  remain  in  the  oven  too  long  or  it  will  be  watery.  Spread  with 
a  layer  of  jelly  and  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  flavored  with  the  juice  of  half  the  lemon.  Return  to  oven,  and 
brown.    This  can  be  served  alone  or  with  a  hard  sauce.     (See  sauces.) 

Cottage  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  a  bread  pan  and  cut  in  small  squares,  and  serve  with 
common  sauce  flavored  with  lemon  juice,  or  a  fruit  sauce.  3c 

gtf-  Are  you  going  to  lay  this  book  down  and  not  read  that  recipe  on  page  32.; 


12?  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO! 


Corn  Starch  Pudding. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  teaspoon  of  butter.  Let  milk  come 
to  a  boil,  dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  beat  eggs 
and  sugar  together ;  add  to  the  hot  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
five  minutes;  eat  with  sweetened  cream  flavored  with  vanilla.  A  cocoa- 
nut  or  chocolate  pudding  can  be  made  of  this  recipe  by  adding  one  cup 
of  grated  cocoanut,  or  for  a  chocolate  pudding  add  one-fourth  a  cake 
of  chocolate  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 

Grate  half  a  cocoanut;  make  a  custard  of  a  quart  of  milk,  four 
eggs,  a  teacup  of  sugar  and  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  with 
an  under  crust  half  an  hour.     Eat  with  the  following  sauce  : 

Sauce. — One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  cup  of 
wine.  Put  all  in  a  bowl  of  hot  water.  Do  not  stir.  The  above  is  good 
without  sauce. 

Cracker  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  finely  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  one  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  a  lump  of  butter.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Do 
not  let  it  remain  in  the  oven  too  long.  Spread  a  layer  of  jelly  on  top 
and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Return  to  oven  and  bake  brown.  Flavor  meringue 
with  vanilla. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. 

Six  or  seven  apples  pared  and  cored.  Put  in  a  pudding  dish  and 
pour  over  them  a  custard  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs  and  five 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  an  hour  and  serve  with 
hard  or  cream  sauce. 

Cranberry  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  milk,  spoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  egg. 
Grease  teacups,  put  a  few  cranberries  in  the  bottom,  then  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  butter,  and  so  on  until  the  cup  is  nearly  full ;  steam  in  a 
steamer  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  a  common  or  cream 
sauce.  Put  in  other  layers  of  fruit  such  as  canned  peaches,  blueber- 
ries, raisins,  etc.  3d 

IMU>Try  Caswell's  Blood  Cleaner. 

ljJ^.Good  printing  is  to  a  busine  s  what  good  clothes  are  to  a  man.  The  Swin- 
burne Printing  Co.  can  give  you  entire  satisfaction.    'Phone  253.    Ring  'em  up. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  123 

Crow's  Nest  Pudding. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  pudding  dish.  Peel 
and  slice  six  large  tart  apples,  cover  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  Make  a 
batter  of  one  cup  sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  and  a  pinch  of 
salt ;  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Pour  on  the  apples  and 
bake  nearly  an  hour.     Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

Blueberry  Pudding. 

Sprinkle  ?.  buttered  dish  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  layer  in  the 
the  bottom ;  put  in  bits  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  blueberries,  another 
layer  of  crumbs  and  butter  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Bake  half 
an  hour.    Serve  with  sweet  cream  or  sauce  made  as  follows  : 

Sauce.— Half  a  cup  of  cream,  a  half  cup  of  milk,  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  When 
nearly  cold  stir  in  an  egg  well  beaten.  Pour  on  the  pudding  and  serve. 
Any  kind  of  fruit,  raspberries,  fresh  or  canned,  dried  apple  sauce  flav- 
ored with  lemon,  or  strawberries,  can  be  used  in  place  of  blueberries. 

Graham  Pudding. 

Half  a  cup  of  molasses,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  egg,  half  a 
cup  of  milk,  half  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup 
raisins,  and  spices  to  taste.,  A  little  sliced  citron  or  figs  can  be  used. 
Flour  the  fruit  and  add  last.  Steam  three  hours.  Serve  with  foam- 
ing sauce. 

Delicate  Pudding. 

Boil  one  cup  of  water  with  one  cup  of  fruit  juice,  (orange,  lemon, 
canned  raspberries,  quinces,  currants),  add  three  tablespoons  of  corn 
starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  ten  minutes .  Salt  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  and  stir  in.  Turn  in  a  mold 
and  serve  cold  with  a  boiled  custard  sauce.     (See  boiled  custard.) 

Pineapple  Pudding. 

Take  one  pineapple  cut  in  thin  slices  and  sprinkle  one-half  cup. of 
sugar  over  it.  Let  stand  for  an  hour.  Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of 
milk,  three  tablespoons  of  corn  starch* four  eggs,  (the  yolks),  cup  of 
sugar.  When  cold  pour  over  the  pineapple  and  add  a  meringue  made 
of  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Brown  in  the  oven.  Oranges  can  be  sliced 
and  used  in  the  same  way ;  only  do  not  let  them  stand  with  sugar  on, 
and  use  half  the  amount  of  sugar.  3e 

Your  attention  is  respectfully  called  to  page  32. 


124  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


NO  MORE  GRAY  HAIR. 


BRUCELINE,  the  only  genuine  remedy  for 
restoring  gray  hair  to  its  natural  color ;  no 
dye  and  harmless. 

BRUCE'S  HAIR  TONIC  cures  baldness, 
strengthens  the  hair,  prevents  it  from  fail- 
ing out,  removes  dandruff  and  diseases  of 
the  scalp. 

Treatise  on  the  hair  sent  free  on  application. 

PEICE  PER  BOTTLE,  $1.00.  Druggists  or 
THE  BRUCELINE  CO.,  377  6th  Av.,  near 
23d  St.,  N.  Y.    Thousands  of  Testimonials. 

FOR    SALE    BY 

THE  WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO, 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  125 

Fruit  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  suet,  chopped 
very  fine  and  shredded  well,  one  cup  of  stoned  and  chopped  raisins, 
one-half  cup  of  chopped  figs,  one-half  cup  of  currants,  two  and  a  half 
cups  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  salt  and  add  one  teaspoon  each 
of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Flour  the  fruit  well  and  add  last. 
Stir  well  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  brandy  sauce.  This  is  a 
very  nice  pudding  and  will  keep  for  weeks  in  a  cool  place . 

Simple  Fruit  Pudding. 

Butter  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  apple  jelly.  Put  in  a  pudding 
dish  with  layers  of  dried  or  canned  fruit,  apricots,  peaches  or  rasp- 
berries. Pour  over  it  a  boiled  custard  and  bake,  adding  the  whitesfor 
the  top. 

Custard. — One  pint  of  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Follow  directions 
for  making  custards. 

Christmas  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  two  cups  of  apples  peeled 
and  chopped,  two  cups  of  finely  chopped  suet,  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs, 
four  eggs,  cup  of  sugar,  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  large  cups  of  flour.  Flour 
the  fruit  from  this.  Either  boil  in  a  bag  or  steam  in  a  pudding  tin  two 
hours.    Serve  with  any  sauce  given.    Brandy  or  wine  are  the  nicest. 

Rice  Pudding. 

Half  a  cup  of  rice,  one  quart  of  milk,  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  half  cup  of  whole  raisins,  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Bake 
slowlv  two  hours.  Stir  once  or  twice  at  first.  Eat  with  hard  sauce 
flavored  with  lemon  juice. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. 

Half  a  cup  of  tapioca.     Soak  over  night  in  a  quart  of  cold  water. 
Put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  clear.     Add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
piece  of  butter,  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.     Pare  four  good  sized  sour  • 
apples,  take  out  core  and  pour  the  tapioca  over  them,  and  bake  an 
hour.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  whipped  cream  sauce. 

Baked  Fruit  Pudding. 

One  cup  milk,  one  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  tablespoon  of  butter,  little 
salt,  one  cup  of)  fruit,  either  apples  or  peaches.  Put  batter  in  a  pud- 
ding dish  and  sprinkle  in  the  fruit.    Serve  with  foaming  sauce.  31 


126  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Indian  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  Indian  meal,  four 
of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  three  eggs,  teaspoon  of  salt.  Heat  milk,  pour 
in  meal  slowly,  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  add  butter  and  pour  on  the  egg, 
sprinkle  in  a  little  cinnamon  and  cloves  or  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  an  hour. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding. 

Scald  a  half  pint  of  meal  with  half  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  two 
tablespoons  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  either  sweet  or  sour, 
one  tablespoon  of  molasses,  half  a  teaspoon  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon ;  a  little  salt,  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  tablespoons  of 
chopped  suet  or  butter.  Steam  two  hours  in  a  well  greased  pudding 
dish.  A  half  cup  of  currants  can  be  added  if  desired.  Serve  with 
any  kind  of  sauce. 

Dried  Apple  Pudding. 

One  cup  dried  apples,  cup  of  molasses,  one  and  a  fourth  cups  of 
flour,  one-fourth  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  each  of  soda, 
cinnamon  and  cloves.  Soak  apples  over  night ;  cut  fine  and  mix  with 
the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  add  egg,  sugar,  butter  and  flour. 
Stir  soda  with  the  molasses  and  apples.  Steam  or  bake.  Serve  with 
common  sauce,  or  cream  sauce.  ^ 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 

For  every  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  take  one  egg,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
Stir  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  pour  in  a  roasting  pan  under  roast  beef 
half  an  hour  before  it  is  done. 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 


In  making  sauces,  if  corn  starch  or  flour  is  used,  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  sugar  while  dry.  This  will  keep  lumps  from  forming.  Do 
not  boil  the  sauce  after  the  butter  is  added.  If  brandy  or  wine  is 
used,  flavor  after  removing  from  the  fire.  If  the  juice  or  rind  of  a 
lemon  or  orange  is  used  put  in  just  before  removing,  as  boiling  with 
any  of  the  grated  rind  is  apt  to  make  the  sauce  bitter.  Do  not  make 
your  sauce  until  ready  to  serve.  3g 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  127 


Whipped  Cream  Sauce. 

Two  cups  of  whipped  cream,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  white  of 
an  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.    Flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  wine. 

Foaming  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  white  of  an  egg  beaten 
to  a  foam,  three  tablespoons  of  wine  or  two  of  brandy,  one-fourth  of  a 
cup  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Common  Sauce. 

Melt  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour 
and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  hot  water ;  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  and 
two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice. 

Hard  Sauce. 

Cream  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  butter  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice 
or  add  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon.  Rub  butter  to  a  cream  and  add 
sugar  gradually. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  one 
level  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  cup  and  a  half  of  boiling  water.  Boil 
sugar  and  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  add  butter,  "and  re- 
move from  fire.      Put  in  three  tablespoons  of  good  brandy. 

Cream  Sauce. 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  granulated  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons of  wine,  two  tablespoons  of  cream.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar, 
then  wine,  and  lastly  cream.  Cook  in  a  double  cooker.  Use  lemon 
or  vanilla  in  place  of  wine. 

Wine  Sauce. 

One  cup  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  one-fourth 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  wine. 
Wet  the  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  in  the  boiling 
water.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Rub  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  sugar,  then  egg 
and  wine,  and  pour  all  into  the  water  and  corn  starch.     Stir  well. 

Molasses  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
three  tablespoons  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  a  little  cinnamon  or  nut. 
meg.    Boil  all  together  for  twenty  minutes  and  serve  at  once.  3h 


Chap-O-Lene  for  the  hands. 


28 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


POND  S  EXTRACT 


Sore  Throat, 

Lameness, 

Influenza, 

Wounds, 

Piles, 

Earache, 

Chilblains, 

Sore  Eyes, 

Inflammations, 

AVOID  IMITATIONS. 

PONDS   EXTRACT  CO.,  76  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York. 


Hoarseness, 

Frost  Bites, 

Soreness, 

Catarrh, 

Burns, 

Bruises, 


?$SS«>|    bore  reet, 


Face  Ache, 
Hemorrhages. 


FAC-SIMILE  OF 

BOTTLE    WITH 

BUFF    WRAPPER. 

ACCEPT   NO   SUBSTITUTE. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


129 


Caramel  Sauce. 

Put  one  cup  of  sugar  in  a  small  frying  pan,  and  stir  until  it  is  a 
light  brown.  Add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  some  of  the  rind  or  a  piece  of 
stick  cinnamon.     Strain  and  serve  hot. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  small  tablespoon 
of  flour,  cup  of  hot  water.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  butter  and  stir  until 
a  light  brown,  add  sugar  and  water,  and  lastly  half  cup  of  canned 
currents  or  any  kind  of  jelly.  Canned  raspberries  are  very  nice  in 
olace  of  currants.  a* 


After  the  first  trial  every  lady  will  appreciate 

COTTOSUET. 


For  Drugs,  Medicines,  or  anything  found  in  a  well  appointed 

Drug  Store,  go  to 

THE  WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


130  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


SAUCES  AND  CATSUPS. 


Lobster  Sauce. 

NE  small  lobster,  four  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  a  little 
cayenne  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  one  pint  of 
hot  water.  Rub  flour  and  butter  together ;  add  water,  pound- 
ed coral  and  seasoning.  Cook  five  minutes,  and  serve  strained  on  the 
lobster.    This  will  do  for  all  kinds  of  boiled  fish. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

One  can  of  tomatoes.  Cook  in  it  a  small  slice  of  onion,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  two  of  flour,  a  few  cloves.  Heat  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether, and  stir  in  the  tomatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Strain 
and  serve  with  any  kind  of  meat  or  fish . 

Tartare  Sauce. 

The  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  a  little  mus- 
tard, teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  a 
tablespoon  of  onion  juice.  Add  the  last  thing  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter or  half  a  cup  of  oil.  Chop  a  tablespoon  of  capers,  and  add  a  table- 
spoon of  cucumber  pickles  after  they  are  chopped.  Serve  with  fried 
fish  and  meats  in  jelly. 

White  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  cream,  four  tablespoons  of  flour,  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  cream  and  milk  on  in  a  cooker. 
Put  in  the  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  of  the  milk.  Stir  awhile, 
and  cook  ten  minutes.  Addthe  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  remove  from 
the  fire.  A  tablespoon  of  parsley  can  be  added.  This  is  nice  for  sal- 
mon, cod  or  halibut. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Take  one  pint  of  stock,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  three  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  stir 
until  brown;  addthe  stock  and  a  can  of  French  mushrooms.  Cook 
five  minutes.    This  is  nice  served  with  beef,  3j 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  131 


Cream  Sauce  for  Vegetables. 

One  cup  of  milk,  teaspoon  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  two  tablespoons 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.    If  you  have  cream  use  it  in  place  of  butter. 

Sauce  for  Fried  Fish. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter  heated  in  a  frying  pan.  Add  a  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley,  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the  fish  before  sending  to  the 
table. 

Chili  Sauce. 

Take  twelve  large,  even-sized,  ripe  tomatoes,  three  green  peppers, 
two  onions,  two  tablespoons  of  salt,  three  of  sugar,  one  of  cinnamon, 
pint  and  a  half  of  vinegar.  Peel  tomatoes  and  onions  and  chop  fine. 
Chop  the  peppers  and  boil  all  an  hour  and  a  half.  This  can  be 
doubled.    A  quart  can  of  tomatoes  can  be  used  in  place  of  ripe  ones. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  four  quarts  of  tomatoes.  Stew  and  run  through  a  sieve.  Do 
not  allow  any  of  the  seeds  to  go  through.  Boil  the  pulp  down  to  jelly. 
Be  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Add  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  four  tablespoons 
of  salt,  four  of  black  pepper,  two  of  allspice,  three  of  ground  mustard, 
a  little  cayenne,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon  and  a  teacup  of  sugar. 
Bottle  while  it  is  hot  and  seal  securely.  If  one  likes  onion  add  half  a 
dozen  small  ones  to  the  pulp  and  cook  with  it. 

Holland  Sauce. 

Put  in  a  sauce  pan  two  large  tablespoons  of  butter,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne,  half  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  until  it  thickens.  Strain 
and  serve  with  baked  fish. 

Mint  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  fresh  chopped  mint,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one-half 
a  cup  of  vinegar.    Let  it  stand  an  hour,  and  serve  with  roast  lamb. 

Horse  Radish  Sauce. 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  of  grated 
'horse  radish,  a  tablespoon  of  thick  cream,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  vine- 
gar. Stir  in  a  little  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  ground  mustard.  Keep  on 
the  ice  till  thick  and  cold.    Serve  with  any  kind  of  cold  meat.  3k 


$500.00  Reward  for  any  adulteration  found  in  Log  Cabin  Maple  Syrup. 

Ad.  on  page  62. 


132  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Bread  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  two  table- 
spoons of  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  one  cup  of  coarse  crumbs.  Boil  the  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  the 
coarse  crumbs  in  the  butter.  Pour  the  sauce  on  the  game  and  sprinkle 
over  the  brown  bread  crumbs.  si 

To  Cure  Hiccough. — It  is  not  generally  known  that  a  piece  of  loaf 
sugar  will  instantly  stop  the  most  troublesome  hiccough. 

Candied  Lemon  Peel. — This  is  made  by  boiling  lemon-peel  with 
sugar,  then  exposing  it  to  the  air  until  the  sugar  crystallizes. 

Bed  bugs,  according  to  a  lady  correspondent,  have  a  great  aversion 
to  salt.  She  states  that  if  the  articles  and  places  infested  with  bed 
bugs  are  washed  with  salt  water,  and  the  crevices  in  which  the  ver- 
min hide  are  filled  with  it,  they  will  give  no  more  trouble. 

Lock  Jaw. — The  following  is  well  worth  saving  for  future  refer- 
ence: "  Locked  jaw  from  a  rusty  nail  in  the  foot  was  entirely  cured 
in  four  cases  reported  by  Dr.  Kinkle,  by  applying  to  the  whole  spinal 
column  cloths  saturated  with  chloroform,  just  at  the  approach  of  the 
spasm.  It  was  repeated  at  several  returns  of  the  spasm,  always  in- 
ducing sleep  and  finally  recovery." 

A  young  man  out  west  was  intrusted  with  the  money  to  bring  his 
father  home  a  good  family  sewing  machine.  He  carried  off  a  neigh- 
bor's daughter  to  Chicago,  married  her,  brought  her  home  and  said  : 
"  There,  father,  is  the  best  one  I  could  find." 

A  pretty  girl  and  a  wild  horse  are  liable  to  do  much  mischief ;  for 
the  one  runs  away  with  a  fellow's  body,  and  the  other  runs  away  with 
his  heart. 

Extremes. — Many  a  fool  has  passed  for  a  clever  man  because  he 
has  known  how  to  hold  his  tongue ;  and  many  a  clever  man  has  passed 
for  a  fool  because  he  has  not  known  how  to  make  use  of  it. 

igj^Try  Caswell's  Blood  Cleaner.  ^ 

J0flp"Gentlemen  will  find  Chap-O-Lene  very  beneficial  applied  immediately 
after  shaving. 

JC^^The  only  concern  in  the  city  making  a  specialty  of  high  class  printing. 
engraving  and  embossing  is  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

^3^-CasweH's  Pectoral  Balsam  cures  all  coughs,  colds  and  affections  of  the 
throat,  chest  and  lungs. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  133 


SALADS. 


^fc^jALADS  should  come  to  the  table  fresh,  crisp  and  cold.  To  crisp 
L^^  lettuce,  celery  or  cabbage  place  them  in  the  ice  chest  some 
U  time  before  serving.  Never  press  down  a  salad  to  get  it  into 
form.  In  arranging  the  salad  toss  it  lightly  with  a  fork.  Do  not  cover 
a  delicate  salad  with  hard  boiled  eggs  or  boiled  beets,  etc.  Keserve 
these  for  chicken,  veal  or  turkey  salads.  Use  the  white  leaves  of  the 
celery,  and  the  light  green  leaves  of  the  lettuce.  Always  tear  lettuce, 
do  not  cut  it.  Wash  it  thoroughly,  as  hot  house  lettuce  is  very  apt 
to  be  covered  with  little  green  lice.  Always  wash  all  vegetables 
thoroughly.  Cut  chicken  with  a  knife  not  to  fine.  Shave  cabbage 
with  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  your  celery  into  small  pieces.  This  is 
better  than  chopping  it.  Rich  salads  like  chicken,  veal,  salmon, 
lobster,  and  shrimp  are  not  served  after  meats  at  dinner,  but  are  only 
appropriate  for  lunch  or  tea.  Vegetable  salads,  like  lettuce,  cucumber, 
potato,  tomato  or  cabbage  are  the  best  after  meats.  Do  not  add  the 
dressing  until  the  salad  is  ready  to  be  served.  Salads  can  be  garn- 
ished with  pieces  of  jelly,  celery  heads  and  the  heart  of  the  lettuce. 
Use  slices  of  lemon  for  all  kind  of  fish  salads.  Asparagus,  string 
beans  and  peas  must  all  be  boiled  in  salted  water  until  tender  before 
using.  In  mixing  dressings,  if  hard  boiled  eggs  are  used  powder  them 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon ;  beat  raw  eggs  very  light,  add  oil,  and  lastly 
vinegar.  A  dressing  should  be  ice  cold  before  putting  on  the  salad. 
When  oil  is  used  pour  in  a  drop  at  a  time  beating  well  all  the  time.  A 
nice  way  to  serve  fish  salads  is  in  shells  in  each  of  which  is  placed  a 
leaf  of  lettuce.  Chicken  salad  can  be  served  in  a  salad  dish  or  enough 
for  one  individual  can  be  placed  in  a  shell  made  of  two  leaves  of  let- 
tuce and  served  from  a  platter.  Use  the  Mayonnaise  or  cooked  dress- 
ing with  all  kinds  of  meat  or  fish  salads.  For  green  salads  use  a  plain 
or  French  dressing.  8m 


134  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Salad  Dressing.    1. 

Mash  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  one  teaspoon  each  of 
mustard  and  salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  black  pep- 
per, piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  or  three  tablespoons  of  olive  oil, 
yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar.  A  tablespoon  of  sugar 
improves  it.    This  is  excellent  for  any  kind  of  a  salad. 

French  Salad  Dressing. 

One  salt  spoon  of  salt,  one-half  salt  spoon  of  pepper,  three  table- 
spoons of  oil,  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  If  you  like  the  flavor  of 
onion,  add  one  tablespoon  of  onion  juice.  This  can  be  obtained  by 
grating  the  onion  with  a  coarse  grater.  To  prepare  this  put  the  salt 
and  pepper  in  a  cup,  add  the  oil  slowly,  and  then  the  vinegar.  This 
is  nice  for  lettuce  or  potato  salad. 

Simple  Salad   Dressing. 

Three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  each  of  sugar,  oil  and  salt,  small  table- 
spoon of  mustard,  cup  of  milk  and  one  of  vinegar.  Stir  oil,  sugar,  salt 
and  mustard  until  smooth,  add  eggs  and  vinegar  and  lastly  milk.  Put 
in  a  bowl  and  place  in  boiling  water  until  it  thickens.  This  is  enough 
to  use  several  times. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

One-half  cup  of  vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  yolk 
of  one  egg,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  cay- 
enne pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Cream  sugar,  butter,  mus- 
tard, egg  and  salt  together;  add  vinegar  and  put  in  a  bowl  in  boiling 
water  until  it  thickens  like  custard.  Remove  and  add  two  table- 
spoons of  thick  sweet  cream.  This  is  excellent  for  cabbage  or  lettuce 
salads  or  any  kind  of  a  salad. 

Quick  Salad  Dressing. 

This  can  be  made  at  the  table.  Yolk  of  an  egg,  tablespoon  of 
mustard,  pinch  of  salt,  six  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice.  Stir  yolk,  mustard  and  salt  until  they  thicken,  and  add  oil  drop 
by  drop,  stirring  all  the  time. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  with  Butter. 

The  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  of  pepper, 
two  of  white  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, four  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Stir  mixture  thoroughly.  Put  in  a 
bowl  in  hot  water  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  and  then  set  away  to  cool. 

3n 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  135 


Mayonnaise  Dressing.     2. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  very  light,  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
tablespoon  of  mustard,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat 
all  to  a  cream,  put  in  a  bowl  set  in  ice  water  and  add  a  pint  of  olive 
oil,  dropping  in  gradually  a  few  drops  at  a  time  until  the  mixture  is 
thick  and  very  hard.  Thin  with  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  A  cup  of  whipped  cream  makes  it  very  nice,  but  can  be 
omitted  without  injury  to  the  dressing.  This  can  be  doubled  for  a 
large  company. 

Chicken  Salad.    1. 

Free  one  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  of  bones  and  skin.  Cut  the 
meat  into  little  dice  or  long  strips .  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  There 
should  be  a  quart.  Have  a  pint  of  nice  tender  celery,  cut  into  small 
pieces  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Mix  with  the  meat  and  when  ready 
to  serve  pour  over  it  a  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
hard  boiled  eggs  or  dices  of  beets.  Serve  on  a  platter,  putting  enough 
for  one  individual  on  one  of  the  large  leaves  of  the  lettuce. 

Chicken  Salad.     £. 

Cut  up  one  chicken,  using  only  the  tender  meat,  add  one  cup  of 
cabbage,  shaved  very  fine  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  one  cup  of  celery 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour  over  it  a  Mayonnaise  dressing  (see  Mayon- 
naise dressing  with  butter).  Serve  in  a  salad  dish  garnished  with  the 
green  leaves  of  the  celery  and  the  small  leaves  of  the  lettuce. 

Turkey  Salad. 

This  is  especially  nice  in  preparing  for  a  large  company.  The 
meat  takes  the  place  of  chicken  and  is  just  as  nice.  Make  the  same  as 
chicken  salad,  using  half  cabbage  and  half  celery.  Garnish  with 
slices  of  cold  hard  boiled  eggs  and  the  green  leaves  of  the  celery. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Wash  each  leaf  carefully.  Drain  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
ready  to  serve.  Put  the  leaves  in  a  salad  bowl,  the  light  ones  in  the 
center.  Tear  some  of  the  larger  ones  and  arrange  around  these. 
Pour  over  all  a  French  dressing.  A  cream  dressing  can  be  used  if  de- 
sired. 3o 


Always  Fry  Doughnuts  in 

COTTOSUET. 

Ad.  on  page  22. 


136  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Cucumber  Salad. 

Take  two  cucumbers  and  cut  off  about  one  inch  of  the  point.  Cut 
in  very  thin  slices,  and  soak  in  salt  and  water  for  an  hour.  Take  two 
heads  of  lettuce,  tear  in  small  pieces.  Drain  the  cucumber  and  put 
with  the  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl.  Serve  with  a  French  or  cream  dress- 
ing.   Cucumber  can  be  used  without  the  lettuce. 

Potato  Salad. 

Take  one  quart  of  potatoes  cut  in  slices  while  hot.  Cut  in  thin 
slices  one  or  two  onions,  or  use  two  tablespoons  of  grated  onion ;  add 
a  little  chopped  parsley.  Pour  over  all  any  kind  of  dressing,  enough  to 
make  it  very  moist.  Place  sprigs  of  parsley  around  the  dish,  and 
serve  cold.  Bits  of  cold  fried  salt  pork  or  bacon  are  nice  mixed  with 
the  salad. 

Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Place  a  layer  of  crisp  lettuce  in  the  bottom  of  a  salad  dish,  a  layer 
of  sliced  cucumbers  prepared  as  the  above  recipe  says,  then  a  layer  of 
sliced  tomatoes.    Pour  either  a  French  or  Mayonnaise  over  the  whole. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Slice  large  tomatoes,  arrange  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  sugar  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  all  a  cream  dressing. 
Garnish  with  celery  tips. 

Salmon  Salad. 

Take  one  can  of  salmon,  break  in  small  pieces,  add  a  little  salt, 
pepper,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  throw  in  a  few  whole  cloves,  a  little 
chopped  onion  if  wished.  Let  this  stand  for  two  hours.  Pour  this  off 
and  put  the  salmon  in  a  circle  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  a  Mayon- 
naise dressing  over  it.  Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  slices  of 
lemon.  Fresh  salmon  can  be  used  the  same  way.  Celery  can  be  used 
with  the  lettuce.     Serve  in  shells  lined  with  lettuce. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Cut  up  the  lobster  like  chicken,  season  with  a  French  dressing. 
Let  it  stand  until  ready  to  serve.  Then  tear  up  one-third  as  much 
lettuce,  mix  with  the  lobster,  and  serve  in  a  nest  made  of  two  large 
lettuce  leaves.  Mix  half  of  the  Mayonnaise  dressing  with  the  lobster. 
Put  a  tablespoon  of  the  prepared  lobster  in  the  nest  with  a  tablespoon 
of  the  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  in  a  platter.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley. A  nice  way  to  serve  a  small  company  is  to  serve  the  salad  in 
shells  for  this  purpose,  in  each  of  which  is  placed  a  leaf  of  lettuce.      3p 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  137 

Oyster  Salad. 

Take  a  quart  of  oysters,  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil  in  their  own 
liquor.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,[and  three 
tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Put  in  the  ice  chest,  and  let  them  become 
thoroughly  cold.  Put  in  a  bowl  and  stick  in  the  little  tender  celery 
tops  and  some  of  the  celery  cut  up.  Pour  over  all  a  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, and  garnish  with  white  celery  leaves.  Any  kind  of  a  dressing  is 
nice  with  the  oysters. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Take  one  quart  of  finely  shaved  cabbage  and  add  two  large  slices 
of  onion  chopped  fine.  Take  two  tablespoons  of  bacon  or  fat  pork, 
one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
the  onion  in  the  fat ;  add  the  other  ingredients  until  boiling.  Pour  hot 
over  the  cabbage  and  serve. 

Cabbage  Salad.     2. 

Take  equal  parts  of  finely  shaved  cabbage  and  celery ;  pour  on  it 
a  plain  salad  dressing.  Garnish  with  the  boiled  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  the  green  leaves  of  the  celery. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

Take  one  can  of  shrimps,  halve  or  chop  them.  Take  one-half  as 
much  celery  or  lettuce  ;  pour  over  all  any  kind  of  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Garnish  with  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves,  or  prepare  the  salad  the 
same  as  for  salmon  salad.    Serve  in  shells. 

Bean  Salad. 

Cook  string  beans  until  tender  in  salted  water ;  cut  them  in  halves 
or  quarters.     Pour  over  them  a  French  dressing  and  serve  cold. 

Beet  Salad. 
Take  cold  beets  cut  in  small  pieces.    Mix  with  pieces  of  lettuce 
and  garnish  with  celery  tips.    Pour  over  all  dressing  No.  1,  or  a  French 
dressing. 

Sardine  or  Fish  Salad. 

One  quart  of  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  fish  freed  from  all  bones. 
Place  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce.  Split  six  sardines  and  remove  any 
bones.  Place  them  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  cover  with  a  boiled  dress- 
ing or  a  Mayonnaise.  Place  slices  of  lemon  around  the  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  pariley  or  lettuce.  3q 

iaP-Chap-0-Lene  will  positively  cure  chapped  or  rough  skin. 


138  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Veal  Salad. 

Cook  real  nice  and  tender,  cut  into  dice  and  prepare  the  same  as 
for  chicken  salad.    This  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  chicken  salad. 

Egg  Salad. 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Cut  the  whites  in  small  pieces ; 
rub  the  yolks  through  a  strainer  over  the  whites.  Pour  over  all  a 
French  dressing.     Serve  with  balls  of  cottage  cheese.  3r 


What  Makes  a  Bushel. — Wheat,  sixty  pounds;  corn,  shelled, 
fifty-six  pounds  ;  rye,  fifty-six  pounds  ;  oats,  thirty-two  pounds  ;  bar- 
ley, forty-six  pounds ;  buckwheat,  fifty-six  pounds ;  Irish  potatoes, 
sixty  pounds ;  sweet  potatoes,  sixty  pounds ;  onions,  fifty-seven 
pounds ;  beans,  sixty  pounds  ;  bran,  twenty  pounds  ;  clover  seed,  sixty 
pounds  ;  timothy  seed,  forty-five  pounds  ;  hemp  seed,  forty-five  pounds  ; 
blue  grass  seed,  fourteen  pounds  ;  dried  peaches,  thirty-three  pounds. 

Rheumatic  Liniment. — Benzine,  four  ounces ;  tincture  camphor, 
two  ounces  ;  tincture  opium,  one  ounce  ;  chloroform,  one  ounce;  mix. 
Apply  by  wetting  a  cloth  or  flannel  with  the  liniment  and  laying  on 
the  affected  part ;  then  place  a  napkin,  folded  several  thicknesses, 
over  that,  and  bind  or  press  it  gently  on  as  long  as  the  patient  can 
stand  the  burning  sensation.     It  will  not  blister. 

"Have  the  jury  agreed?"  asked  the  judge  of  a  court  attache  whom 
he  met  on  the  stairs  with  a  bucket  in  his  hand.  "Yis,"  replied  Pat- 
rick, "they  have  agreed  to  send  me  out  for  a  half  gallon  of  whisky." 

Comparison  op  the  Sexes. — Women  are  said  to  have  stronger  at- 
tachments than  men.  It  is  not  so.  A  man  is  often  attached  to  an  old 
hat ;  but  did  you  ever  know  of  a  woman  having  an  attachment  for  an 
old  bonnet?    Echo  answers  "never." 

Apologies  for  Marrying. — Many  strange  apologies  have  been 
urged  for  marriage.  Goethe  said  he  married  to  gain  respectability. 
Wilkes  wedded  to  please  his  friends.  Wycherly,  in  his  old  age,  took 
his  servant  girl  to  spite  his  relations.  The  Russians  have  a  story  of  a 
widow  who  was  so  inconsolable  for  the  loss  of  her  husband,  that  she 
took  another  to  keep  her  from  fretting  herself  to  death. 

UJlfc-You  are  invited  to  call  or  write  for  samples  of  work  when  in  need  of  any- 
thing in  the  line  of  hierh  class  printing,  from  a  calling  card  to  a  three-sheet  poster.— 
The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  Avenue  North. 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO.  139 

GREAT  NORTHER!  SOAP  CO,, 

MINNEAPOLIS,  MINN. 

Have  the  sole  right  to  manufacture  W.  A.  Woodburn's 

SPANISH    SOTOLE    SOAP. 

This  soap  is  made  from  pure  material,  combined  with  Sotole. 
or  natural  soap,  from  the  Sotole  plant  and  will  excell  all 
other  soaps  in  cleansing  qualities,  and  yet  it  possesses  a  mild- 
ness that  will  not  injure  any  fabric.  It  also  possesses  great 
curative  properties  which  make  it  very  desirable  for  family  use. 

SPANISH  SOTOLE  LAUNDRY  SOAP 

Will  wash  all  kinds  of  cotton,  linen,  silk,  woolen  and  worsted 
goods,  carpets  and  woodwork,  better  than  any  other  soap. 

SPANISH  SOTOLE  BATH  AND  TOILET  SOAPS 

Will  be  desirable  for  all  toilet  purposes,  especially  for  those 
needing  a  healing  soap  for  chapped  hands,  etc.,  such  as 
mechanics,  machinists,  printers,  farmers,  and  all  others  who 
desire  a  soap  to  remove  stains  and  leave  the  skin  soft  and 
smooth. 

SPANISH  SOTOLE  CURATIVE  SOAP 

Is  a  finer  grade  of  soap,  containing  olive  oil,  and  will  cure 
eczema,  rash,  prickly  heat,  burns,  etc.,  and  is  used  for  med- 
icinal purposes. 

SPANISH  SOTOLE  SILVER  SOAP 

Will  clean  all  kinds  of  gold,  silver,  brass,  tin,  nickel,  and  will 
clean  gilt  picture  frames  and  make  them  look  like  new. 

Every  housekeeper  should  keep  a  supply  of  these  soaps. 

All  dealers  in  soaps  will  handle  these  goods.     Try  them, 
prove  them,  and  you  will  continue  to  use  them. 


140  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


rt0A  OUPS  are  made  from  meat,  fish  and  vegetables,  with  water  or 
|S^  milk.  They  are  classified  according  to  material,  color,  quality, 
^U  etc.  When  soup  is  made  of  stock,  meat  is  the  basis.  To  make 
nutritious,  healthful  soups,  requires  study  and  practice.  Always  have 
materials  on  hand  such  as  dried  herbs,  rice,  okra,  vermicelli,  onions, 
carrots,  whole  as  well  as  ground  spices.  Parsley  is  another  necessary 
article.  With  these  soups  can  be  make  from  scraps  of  meat  left  from 
a  meal.  Pieces  of  steak,  bones  of  roast  beef  or  veal  make  a  good 
stock.  Save  the  water  in  which  chickens,  beef  tongues  or  leg  of  mutton 
are  cooked.  The  carcass  of  a  turkey,  in  which  are  remnants  of  the 
dressing,  cooked  slowly  makes  an  excellent  soup.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  buy  meat  expressly  for  the  purpose  of  making  soup  stock. 

By  stock  we  mean  a  liquid  containing  the  juice  and  soluble  parts 
of  meat  and  bone,  which  has  been  extracted  by  slow  cooking.  Stock 
made  from  meat  without  bone  or  gristle  will  not  jelly  when  cold. 
Stock  can  be  made  from  the  cheapest  inferior  parts  of  meat,  whieh  yield 
the  most  nutriment  when  cooked.  When  buying  meat  for  stock  select 
a  piece  from  the  shin  or  lower  part  of  the  round  of  beef  or  veal.  This 
has  a  bone  with  marrow,  and  a  large  proportion  of  gelatine.  Stock 
made  from  roasted  or  browned  meats  is  the  most  nutritious.  A  bay 
leaf  adds  greatly  to  the  flavor  of  soup.  Always  put  your  meat  or  soup 
bone  into  cold  water  without  salt,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  for  several 
hours.  Cover  closely ;  thus  keep  the  flavor  of  the  meat  from  escap- 
ing with  the  steam,  and  also  prevents  it  from  being  reduced  too 
quickly  by  evaporation.  Skim  the  stock  several  times,  and  when  the 
meat  is  reduced  to  rags,  strain,  and  put  away  in  an  earthen  jar.  When 
cold  remove  the  grease  from  the  top.  This  is  the  basis  of  several 
kinds  of  soups,  and  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  some  time.  Soups 
can  be  served  thin,  or  thickened  with  flour,  corn  starch  and  different 
vegetables.  Do  not  put  away  stock  with  vegetables  in  it,  as  they  are 
apt  to  sour  it.  For  coloring  soups  brown,  use  caramel,  browned  flour 
and  onions  browned  in  butter.  Caramel  can  be  made  by  boiling  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  two  teaspoons  of  water  in  a  sauce  pan  until  brown  ; 
then  add  half  a  cup  of  water  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  soups  with 

30 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  .     141 

bread  browned  in  the  oven,  and  cut  in  small  dice,  or  squares  of  bread 
thrown  into  boiling  fat,  and  browned.  Serve  with  oyster  soup  crack- 
ers crisped  in  a  hot  oven.  Clear  stock  by  removing  the  fat,  and  using 
the  white  of  an  egg  for  every  quart  of  stock.  Do  not  add  the  egg  when 
the  stock  is  hot,  but  set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  all  the  time,  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil.  A  scum  will  form  which  when  taken  off  leaves  the 
liquid  clear  and  sparkling.  Always  strain  thoroughly.  Cook  your 
vegetables  that  require  long  boiling,  as  rice,  sago,  macaroni,  tapioca, 
etc.,  separately,  then  add  the  stock.  Serve  with  clear  soups  slices  of 
lemon,  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  force  meat  balls,  or  a  spoonful  of 
grated  Parmesau  cheese  on  each  plate.  The  nicest  of  clear  soups  is 
the  French,  called  Consomme. 

For  five  pounds  of  clear  meat  and  bone  use  about  six  quarts  of 
water.  Add  a  pinch  of  sugar  to  all  soups.  Thick  soups  require  more 
seasoning  than  thin  ones.  Never  use  any  kind  of  meat  that  is  the 
least  bit  tainted,  as  the  stock  witl  taste  of  it.  Cayenne  pepper,  Worces- 
tershire, Halford  or  Chili  sauces  and  catsup  are  used  by  some,  but 
must  be  used  cautiously.  Wine  is  also  used  by  some  for  the  extra 
flavor.  If  soup  is  salted  too  much  modify  by  adding  a  little  sugar  and 
a  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 

Asparagus  Sauce. 

Two  bundles  of  asparagus,  one  quart  of  stock,  one  pint  of  milk, 
one  cup  of  cream,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  three  of  flour,  one  onion, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  off  the  tops  and  cook  awhile  in  salted 
water ;  cook  the  remainder  until  done.  Cut  the  onion  in  small  pieces, 
and  fry  in  the  butter,  add  flour  and  then  add  the  stock  and  asparagus. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  strain  and  add  the  milk  and  cream. 

Bouillon. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  one-half  an 
onion  sliced  very  thin.  Cook  until  the  onion  is  browned,  then  add 
one  and  one-half  pounds  of  finely  chopped  beef  (that  from  the  round 
being  best),  one  and  one-half  pints  of  cold  water.  Cover  the  pan  and 
let  all  simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Strain,  and  return  to  the  kettle, 
and  boil  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  with  one-half  cup  of  water,  add 
this  to  the  bouillon,  and  boil  four  minutes,  strain,  and  if  it  is  too  light 
add  caramel,  but  have  it  very  clear.  3t 

JJH^We  guarantee  our  work.  If  it  is  not  entirely  satisfactory  send  it  back: 
donTuse  it  up  and  then  ask  for  a  rebate,  as  you  won't  get  it.  We  don't  care  to 
deal  with  cranks.    The  Swinburne  Printing  Company. 

Child's  Cough  Cure  is  prepared  especially  for  children. 


142  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup. 

Stew  one  pint  of  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes  with  one  slice  of 
onion,  one  bay  leaf,  and  one  sprig  of  parsley.  Put  through  a  sieve,  and 
return  to  the  stove.  Rub  one  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  two  of 
flour  to  a  paste,  stir  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  until  it  thickens. 
Add  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  to  the 
tomato.     Strain  into  the  milk  and  serve  at  once. 

Beef  and  Vegetable  Soup. 

Put  a  good  soup  bone  on  in  cold  water,  about  three  quarts  to  a 
three-pound  soup  bone.  Simmer  slowly  until  the  meat  falls  from  the 
bone.  Skim  frequently  as  the  scum  rises.  Remove  the  fat,  which 
hardens  when  the  stock  is  cold.  Peel,  wash,  and  slice  three  potatoes, 
cut  up  one-fourth  head  of  cabbage,  peel  and  slice  two  onions,  one  head 
of  celery,  and  tomatoes  if  desired.  Boil  until  done  in  the  stock.  Strain 
and  serve.  Some  use  carrots  and  turnips.  Season  with  parsley, 
thyme  and  sage.  Force  meat  balls  are  nice  served  with  beef  soup. 
Drop  them  in  the  soup  just  before  serving. 

Beef  Soup. 

Take  bones  and  trimmings  from  a  large  roast  of  beef,  two  cold 
mutton  chops,  pieces  of  sirloin  steak ;  add  three  quarts  of  water.  Let 
this  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  is  in  rags.  Strain  and  cool ;  remove  fat 
and  when  ready  to  use  heat  to  a  boiling  point,  and  add  one  tablespoon 
of  salt,  four  cloves,  one  tablespoon  of  mixed  herbs.  If  a  cold  fried  egg, 
baked  apples  or  cold  boiled  onions  are  found  in  the  pantry  add  them 
to  the  stock.    Boil  a  few  minutes  and  strain  and  serve. 

Bean  Soup. 

Take  one  quart  of  any  good  beef  stock.  Soak  a  coffee  cup  of  beans 
two  hours,  and  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Add  to  the  stock,  and 
boil  awhile.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sprinkle  in  a  few  bread 
crumbs,  and  serve  hot.  If  desired  add  three  potatoes,  a  small  piece  of 
turnip  and  a  parsnip,  all  cut  up  fine.  An  onion  gives  the  soup  a  nice 
flavor. 

Bean  Soup  Without  Meat. 

Boil  one  pint  of  beans  in  a  quart  of  water ;  pour  off  the  water,  and 
add  a  fresh  quart  of  water.  Cook  until  very  tender.  Skim  out  half  of 
them ;  to  the  other  half  add  one  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  half  milk  and 
cream,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  8u 


__  'The  Swinburne  Printing  Company  would  like  to  see  you  when  you  have 
any  use  for  printer's  ink. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  143 

Consomme. 

Two  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  one 
fowl.  Cook  all  in  four  quarts  of  cold  water.  Simmer  until  the  meat  is 
in  shreds.  Cut  up  three  onions,  one-half  a  carrot,  one-half  a  turnip, 
and  fry  them  in  ham  fat  or  the  drippings.  Strain  the  stock,  when  cold 
remove  the  fat ;  add  the  vegetables  and  season  with  a  little  celery, 
parsley  and  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  Strain  and  serve  clear.  Clar- 
ify with  the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg,  as  given  in  the  preface.  It 
should  be  transparent  and  of  a  light  brown  color.  The  stock  from  beef 
alone  can  be  used. 

Celery  Soup. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  one  small  half  teacup  of  boiled  or  steamed 
rice.  Put  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  Cook  five  or  six  sticks  of 
celery  in  a  little  water  until  tender ;  add  to  the  milk  and  put  in  a  piece 
of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  over  the  water 
one-half  an  hour,  and  just  before  serving  add  one  well  beaten  egg  to 
the  hot  soup  and  serve  hot. 

Chioken  Soup. 

Take  the  broth  left  after  boiling  chickens  to  fry,  or  for  a  salad. 
Strain  and  add  small  pieces  of  the  chicken.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  minced  onion.  Thicken  if  desired  with  one  table- 
spoon of  corn  starch,  or  add  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Boil  twenty  min- 
utes and  serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

Chicken  and  Beef  Consomme. 

Cut  one  pound  of  lean  beef  from  the  round  into  small  pieces,  add 
one  pound  of  chicken  bones.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  let  it  stand 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  simmer  for  four  hours.  Add  two  slices  of 
onions,  a  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  slice  of  carrot  and  a  piece  of  cel- 
ery. Cook  for  an  hour  slowly ;  strain  and  let  it  cool.  When  cold 
remove  the  fat  and  heat  when  ready  to  serve.  If  not  clear  and  brown, 
color  and  clear  as  directed  in  bouillon. 

Duchess  Soup. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point.  Take  two 
large  onions  and  slice  fine  and  fry  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  fry 
awhile  and  then  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Stir  all  into  the  milk 
and  cook  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  return  to  the  fire.  Add  two  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese,  and  the  last  thing  three  well  beaten  eggs. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Do  not  boil  after  adding  the  eggs.  The 
cheese  can  be  omitted.  sv 


144  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Clam  Soup. 

Twenty-five  small  clams,  one  quart  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
one  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  three  potatoes,  two  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  the  clams  fine  and  drain. 
Chop  the  potatoes  and  cook  them  in  the  milk.  Rub  butter  and  flour 
together  and  add  to  milk  and  potatoes.  Add  parsley,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  cook  for  awhile.  The  last  thing  add  the  clams.  The  liquor  from 
the  clams  is  not  used.  Cook  the  potatoes  in  the  milk  at  least  fifteen 
minutes  before  adding  the  other  ingredients. 

Lobster  Soup. 

One  small  lobster  boiled  in  three  pints  of  stock  or  water.  Pound 
and  use  the  coral  if  there  is  any.  Cook  three  tablespoons  of  butter 
and  three  of  flour  together ;  stir  into  the  soup  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  speck  of  cayenne.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and  strain.  Add 
pieces  of  the  lobster  to  the  soup  and  serve  at  once. 

Green  Corn  Soup. 

Six  ears  of  sweet  corn  or  one  pint  of  pulp.  Boil  the  cobs  in  cold 
water  thirty  minutes  and  strain.  Put  the  corn  water  on  and  add  the 
corn  pulp  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter  cooked  together.  Add  salt  and 
pepper,  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  just  before  serving  add  one  pint  of 
milk  or  cream. 

Julienne  Soup. 

One  quart  of  stock,  and  one  pint  of  mixed  vegetables,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Cut  celery,  turnip,  carrot,  and  onion  into  small  dice 
and  cook  until  soft.  Add  to  the  stock,  and  serve  hot.  In  summer  use 
green  peas,  asparagus  or  string  beans. 

Mulligatawney  Soup. 

Take  chicken  or  turkey  left  from  dinner,  and  scraps  of  roast  veal, 
lamb  or  mutton ;  add  four  quarts  of  water.  Cut  up  fine  four  stalks  of 
celery,  two  onions,  two  slices  of  carrot,  cook  for  twenty  minutes  in 
four  tablespoons  of  butter ;  to  this  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  one 
tablespoon  of  curry.  Stir  this  into  the  soup  and  cook  four  hours ; 
then  remove  and  strain.  Add  a  small  cupful  of  barley,  that  has  been 
simmering  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  several  hours,  and  bits  of  the 
chicken  or  turkey.    Cook  awhile  and  serve.  3w 


DEMAND   Log  Cabin  Maple   Syrup. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  145 


Lamb  Soup. 

Boil  a  nice  leg  of  lamb  or  mutton  in  three  quarts  of  water.  Use 
the  water  for  the  soup.  Chop  two  onions  and  a  potato  fine,  and  two 
large  tomatoes  :  add  these  to  the  soup  and  boil  one  hour.  Have  a  half 
a  cup  of  barley  simmering  on  the  back  of  the  stove  ;  add  this  to  the 
other  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  This 
can  be  thickened  if  preferred  by  adding  a  tablespoon  of  flour  wet  with 
cold  water. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Wash,  clean  and  soak  for  awhile  one  calf's  head.  Remove  the 
brain  and  tongue.  Take  four  pig's  feet,  and  the  head,  and  boil  in  a 
gallon  of  water  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  the  flesh  slips  from  the 
bones.  Skim  thoroughly.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  Remove  the 
meat  and  put  it  where  it  will  cool  so  as  to  cut  up  into  dice.  Keep  the 
rest  for  force  meat  balls.  Put  the  bones  on  to  cook  again,  add  six 
cloves,  six  allspice,  stick  of  cinnamon,  tablespoon  of  mixed  herbs,  two 
onions,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  stalk  of  celery.  Let  this  cook  until 
all  is  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Strain  and  cool.  Remove  the  fat  when 
cool.  Make  a  brown  thickening  of  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  two 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  one  pint  of  brown  stock.  Stir  this  into 
the  other  stock.  Add  a  cup  of  the  meat  cut  into  dice  and  finish  the 
seasoning  by  adding  the  last  thing  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Maderia  wine  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Serve  with  sliced  lemons  and  make  force  meat 
balls  and  throw  into  the  soup  five  minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire. 
Make  the  balls  as  follows  :  Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  to 
a  paste,  using  the -brains  to  moisten  the  yolks  with ;  season  with  a  little 
pepper,  salt  and  lump  of  butter.  Mix  this  with  two  well  beaten  eggs 
and  with  the  hands  mold  into  little  balls,  and  throw  into  the  soup  a 
few  minutes  before  it  is  done. 

Noodle  Soup. 

Make  noodles  by  adding  to  one  egg  as  much  sifted  flour  as  it  will 
absorb ;  salt  and  roll  out  thin ;  dredge  with  flour,  roll  over  and  over 
into  a  large  roll.  Cut  into  strips,  shake  out  and  drop  into  any  kind  of 
clear,  thin  soup. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  tablespoon  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
pepper.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  a  pint  of  oysters.  Skim 
carefully  and  add  just  before  serving  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  a 
few  crackers  rolled  fine.  3X 


"Caswell's  Pectoral  Balsam  is  guaranteed  to  give  satisfaction  or  money 


146  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Okra  Soup. 

Take  two  quarts  of  nice  stock  either  made  from  a  good  beef  bone 
or  from  chicken  or  turkey,  add  one  quart  of  water,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per. Fry  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  out,  and  add  one  onion, 
and  one  quart  of  green  okra  cut  into  small  pieces.  Cover  and  fry  half 
an  hour.  Add  to  this  before  removing  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Add 
this  to  the  other  ingredients ;  simmer  two  hours,  strain  and  add  any 
pieces  of  the  chicken.    Serve  with  a  dish  of  steamed  rice. 

Milk  Stew. 

Three  pints  of  milk  to  pint  of  oysters.  Bring  the  milk  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  add  the  oysters.  Skim  and  season  with  a  large  lump  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Do  not  let  the  milk  boil  and  be  very 
careful  that  it  does  not  scorch. 

Onion  Soup. 

Bring  one  quart  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  put  three  tablespoons 
of  butter  in  a  frying  pan ;  in  it  throw  six  onions  sliced  fine.  Let  them 
cook  for  some  time.  Add  to  the  onions  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Turn 
this  mixture  into  the  milk  and  cook  fifteen  minutes ;  strain  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add  one  cup  of 
cream  or  milk  to  them,  stir  into  the  soup  and  serve  hot.  If  you  use 
milk  instead  of  cream  put  in  an  extra  lump  of  butter.  The  thickening 
can  be  left  out. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

Take  a  couple  of  ox  tails,  skin,  joint  and  soak  them  in  lukewarm 
water  for  awhile.  Chop  up  two  onions,  season  with  a  little  cayenne 
and  allspice,  add  this  to  the  meat.  Bring  them  to  the  boiling  point 
and  skim ;  when  the  scum  has  ceased  to  rise  cover  and  let  them  cook 
two  hours.  Strain  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  mushroom  catsup,  and 
a  glass  of  sherry  wine.  Return  the  meat  to  the  soup,  boil  together 
and  serve  with  toasted  bread. 

Pea  Soup. 

Take  two  quarts  of  good  beef  stock,  and  in  it  boil  one  quart  of 
green  peas  or  split  peas.  If  they  are  dry  peas  soak  over  night  and  boil 
until  tender  in  just  a  little  water.  Add  peas  to  the  stock  and  cook  un- 
til the  peas  are  done  enough  to  pass  through  a  sieve.  Strain  through 
a  sieve  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Let  the  soup  simmer  for 
thirty  minutes  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in 
which  has  been  stirred  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  A  cup  of  cream  stirred  in 
just  before  serving  improves  it  greatly.  If  you  have  no  cream  use 
milk  and  double  the  butter.  3v 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  147 

Potato  Soup. 

A  quart  of  milk  put  on  to  boil  with  an  onion  and  a  stalk  of  celery. 
Pare  six  potatoes  and  boil  thirty  minutes  ;  turn  off  the  water  and  mash 
fine.  Add  the  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Rub  through  a  strainer ;  serve  at  once.  A  cup  of  cream  greatly  im- 
proves the  soup. 

Turtle  Soup. 

Take  a  can  of  green  turtle.  Take  the  green  fat  by  itself  and  cut 
into  little  pieces.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  turtle  in  three  pints  of  water. 
Season  with  six  pepper  corns,  a  few  cloves,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a 
little  sage  and  thyme.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan,  and  fry  in 
it  one  large  onion,  a  slice  of  carrot,  one  of  turnip,  and  a  little  celery. 
Skim  out  these  and  add  to  the  soup.  In  the  butter  left  add  a  table- 
spoon of  flour.  Stir  into  the  aoup  and  cook  glowly  an  hour.  Strain 
and  serve  with  the  green  fat.  Four  tablespoons  of  wine  can  be  added 
if  desired. 

Tomato  Soup. 

A  quart  can  of  tomatoes  or  a  quart  of  fresh  tomatoes,  one  pint  of 
water.  Cook  the  tomatoes  and  water  twenty  minutes.  Take  a  large 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  fry  in  it  one  minced  onion,  and  when  brown 
add  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch ;  add  to  the  tomato,  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar. 

Milk  Tomato  Soup. 

One  can  of  tomatoes  cooked  twenty  minutes  in  one  pint  of  water. 
Add  a  small  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bring  a  quart  of  milk  to  the  boiling 
point,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  a  little  rolled 
cracker ;  add  this  to  the  tomato,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

Turkey  Soup. 

Take  the  carcass  of  a  turkey  left  from  dinner  and  what  remains  of 
the  gravy,  dressing,  bones,  etc.  Put  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
cook  slowly  for  three  or  four  hours.  Strain  and  cool.  Skim  off  the 
fat ;  pick  off  bits  of  the  meat  and  add  to  the  soup.  Thicken  if  desired, 
with  a  little  flour  wet  with  cold  water. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 

Take  a  quart  of  good  rich  beef  stock,  and  add  one-half  a  cup  of 
vermicelli  broken  up,  and  cooked  in  a  little  salted  water  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Macaroni  can  be  used  in 
place  of  vermicelli.  3z 


148  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Vegetable  Soup. 

One-half  a  cup  of  chopped  onion,  one  cup  of  cabbage,  one-half  a 
cup  each  of  turnip  and  carrot,  one  cup  of  potato,  a  stalk  of  celery.  Put 
all  but  the  potato  and  cabbage  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and 
cook  thirty  minutes ;  then  add  cabbage  and  potato,  one  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  one  tablespoon  of  parsley  and  sage 
chopped  fine.  Cook  thirty  minutes  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  a  cup  of  sweet  cream.  This  soup  can 
be  thickened  by  adding  a  tablespoon  of  flour  fried  in  the  butter. 

Clam  or  Fish  Chowder. 

Three  pounds  of  cod,  bass  or  salmon,  six  potatoes,  a  piece  of  salt 
pork,  two  onions,  tablespoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, quart  of  milk  and  six  large  crackers.  Remove  the  scales.  Wipe 
the  fish  carefully,  and  cut  into  pieces  two  inches  square.  Put  the 
bones  and  head  on  to  boil.  Slice  the  potatoes,  and  parboil  them.  Fry 
the  onions  and  pork  fat  and  butter  together.  Strain  the  fat,  leaving  the 
onions.  Put  in  the  potatoes,  and  the  water  in  which  the  bones  were 
boiled.  When  boiling  put  in  the  fish,  and  add  the  milk.  Split  the 
crackers,  and  pour  the  chowder  on  them.  If  wanted  richer  stir  in  two 
eggs  well  beaten.  Clam  chowder  is  made  the  same  way,  using  half  a 
peck  of  clams  in  their  shells  in  place  of  fish  and  using  the  liquor. 

Barley  Soup. 

A  teacup  of  barley,  quart  of  chicken  stock,  one  onion,  a  little  mace 
and  cinnamon.  Cook  barley  several  hours.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  and 
add  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk.  If  it  is  milk  add  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter. Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Rice  soup  can  be  made  by  using  rice 
in  place  of  barley.  4a 


Mrs.'Masterman  uses  and  recommends 

OOTTOSUET. 

If  your  grocer  don't  keep  it  he  can  get  it  for  you.    Made  only  by 

S  ~W  I  IF  T     Sc     O  O., 

South  Omaha,  Neb. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  149 


VEGETABLES. 


fjjg)  Y  VEGETABLES  we  mean  such  plants  as  are  used  for  food,  and 
[gp  comprise  all  parts  of  the  plant  from  the  root  to  the  leaves- 
The  fresher  the  vegetables  are  the  better.  They  should  be 
washed  and  cleaned  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  and  cooked  in  boiling 
water.  Always  salt  the  water  in  the  proportion  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
to  a  quart  of  water.  The  time  of  cooking  varies  with  the  age  of  the 
vegetable.  All  should  be  cooked  until  tender,  and  no  longer.  String 
beans,  turnips,  parsnips,  carrots  and  cauliflower  require  from  one  to 
two  hours.  Potatoes  boiled  require  thirty  minutes ;  fcbaked  forty-five. 
Onions  are  best  put  in  warm  salt  water  for  awhile  before  cooking ;  this 
removes  the  strong  odor.  In  cooking  greens  add  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
soda  to  preserve  the  color.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda  always  to  any  kind  of 
beans.  This  removes  the  strong,  beany  taste.  Old  potatoes  should  be 
soaked  in  cold  water  some  time  before  cooking.  In  cooking  potatoes 
remove  and  drain  as  soon  as  done.  Uncover  a  little  to  let  the  steam 
out,  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  dry  out.  This  makes  them 
mealy.  »The  secret  of  mealy  potatoes  is  to  cook  them  rapidly  and  re- 
move and  drain  as  soon  as  done.  Try  with  a  fork,  and  if  soft,  drain. 
Some  prick  baked  potatoes  as  soon  as  done  or  squeeze  a  little.  This 
lets  out  the  steam  and  keeps  them  from  being  watery.  Raw  potatoes 
that  are  to  be  fried  should  be  sliced  thin,  and  soaked  in  cold  water. 
This  draws  out  the  starch  and  makes  them  crisp  instead  of  mealy. 

Asparagus. 

Wash  and  clean  thoroughly.  Use  only  the  tender  part  of  the 
stalk.  Cut  off  any  that  is  white.  Boil  in  salted  water.  Boil  the  stalk 
first,  and  then  throw  in  the  tips.  When  tender  season  with  a  little 
cream,  lump  of  butter  and  pepper  to  taste.  The  asparagus  can  be 
cooked  whole  and  served  with  melted  butter.  4b 


150  COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK. 


Asparagus  on  Toast. 

Prepare  as  above,  only  leave  the  stalks  whole.  "When  tender  put 
in  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  a  little  thickening  if  one  likes  it,  and 
pour  it  over  slices  of  toasted  bread.  The  water  must  be  boiled  down 
so  as  to  leave  just  enough  for  the  gravy.  Use  a  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch  for  thickening. 

String  Beans. 

String  by  cutting  off  the  ends  of  the  pods.  Cut  in  inch  pieces  or 
break.  Boil  from  one  to  two  hours  until  perfectly  tender.  Beans  re- 
quire longer  time  than  most  vegetables.  Throw  in  a  pinch  of  soda 
just  before  draining.  Add  a  cup  of  cream  or  part  milk,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Shelled  beans  should  be  prepared  with 
the  same  kind  of  dressing,  only  they  do  not  require  as  great  a  length  of 
time  to  cook  tender. 

Baked  Beans. 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  quart  of  beans,  soak  in  plenty  of  water 
over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  water ;  cover  with  hot  water 
and  let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  off  this  water  and  add  more.  Boil 
until  they  begin  to  split.  Put  the  beans  in  an  earthen  jar  or  crock 
always  saved  for  this  purpose.  Throw  in  a  pinch  of  soda.  Put  in  the 
bottom  one  pound  of  good  fat  and  lean  salt  pork.  Mix  a  little  mustard 
with  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  and  a  little  water.  Have  water  to 
cover  the  beans.  Bake  all  day.  Watch  them  and  if  they  need  any 
more  seasoning  and  water  add  it.  Some  add  a  little  chopped  onion 
for  additional  flavor  or  put  two  slices  of  an  onion  on  top  of  beans. 

Boiled  Dinner. 

Use  a  nice  piece  of  corn  beef,  put  on  in  warm  water  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  pour  off  the  water  and  add  enough  more  to  cover  well. 
Skim  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Before  the  vegetables  are  put  in  remove 
the  meat  and  put  in  vegetables  as  follows :  Turnips  cut  in  slices,  cook 
awhile  and  then  add  cabbage  cut  in  quarters,  pototoes  whole  and  a 
few  carrots  or  parsnips.  Beets  should  be  boiled  in  some  of  the  liquor 
separately.  After  removing  the  vegetables  put  in  the  meat  for  a  few 
minutes  to  heat  through.  Serve  cabbage  and  beets  in  separate  dishes. 
Place  turnips  and  carrots  or  parsnips  on  the  platter  with  the  meat. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  vinegar  to  suit  the  individual  taste. 
Prepare  the  beets  as  the  recipe  below  says.  4c 

J^^-Wedding  Invitations,  Announcements,  At  Home,  etc.  High  class  work 
produced  by  The  Swinburne  Printing  Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 

l^fc.Ch.ap-0-Lene  for  th«  hands. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  151 


Beets. 

Cook  whole.  Do  not  break  off  fibers  or  roots,  or  peel,  as  the  juices 
escape.  Cook  from  one  to  five  hours.  When  tender  drop  in  cold 
water  and  slip  off  the  skins.  Slice  in  a  dish,  add  pieces  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt ;  pour  over  a  little  vinegar  and  let  them  stand  in  a  hot  oven 
a  few  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Place  some  of  the  beets  in  vinegar  and  a 
few  pieces  of  horse  radish  on  top  and  let  stand  for  a  day  or  so  for 
pickles. 

Beet  Greens. 

Wash  the  young  beets  and  tips  very  thoroughly.  Cook  in  salted 
water  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork.  Take  out  and  drain  and  dress  with 
butter,  pepper  and  vinegar. 

Corn  Oysters. 

One  cup  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  milk, 
teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper,  one  pint  of  grated  corn.  Pour  corn  on  the 
flour,  add  the  rest  and  fry  in  the  frying  pan  in  which  is  hot  fat  to  the 
depth  of  two  inches.    Put  in  batter  by  spoonfuls. 

Boiled  Corn. 

Clean  off  all  the  silk  carefully  and  cut  the  heads  off  the  cob.  Boil 
in  salt  water  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  cut  the  corn  (after  it  is 
cleaned)  with  a  sharp  knife  from  the  cob.  Stew  with  a  little  water. 
When  tender  add  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Beaten  eggs 
added  makes  a  rich  dish. 

Cauliflower . 

Take  off  the  green  leaves  and  stalk,  put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water. 
Boil  for  an  hour  or  longer  until  tender ;  pour  off  water  and  add  a  cream 
sauce.    It  is  a  good  plan  to  let  it  soak  in  salt  water  before  cooking. 

Succotash. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  shelled  beans  and  corn  cut  from  the  cob. 
Cook  each  separately  until  tender.  Mix  together  and  season  with 
cream  and  milk,  a  large  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  A  little 
sugar  if  one  likes  it.  Succotash  can  be  made  from  canned  corn  and  dry 
beans  the  same  way.  The  beans  must  be  soaked  over  night  and  boiled 
until  tender  before  adding  them  to  the  corn.     Season  as  above. 

Cabbage. 

Slice  with  a  sharp  knife  very  fine,  put  in  a  stew  pan  and  add  a  lit- 
tle water.  Cover  closely  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  milk,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  or  a  cream  sauce.  4d 


152  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Fried  Cabbage. 

Slice  cabbage  fine,  place  in  a  pan  in  which  are  some  pieces  of  bacon 
or  salt  pork,  previously  fried  a  little.  Add  a  little  water,  cover  closely 
and  cook  down  until  brown.  Some  add  a  little  vinegar  just  before  re- 
moving from  the  stove.  Cabbage  is  considered  indigestable,  and  some 
boil  it  with  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper  and  change  the  water  once  or 
twice.    It  is  more  wholesome  served  as  a  salad. 

Celery  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Wash  and  scrape  celery,  cut  in  pieces  two  inches  long.  Boil  half 
an  hour,  drain  off  water  and  add  a  cream  sauce.    (See  sauces.) 

Egg  Plant. 

Cut  the  plant  in  slices,  pare  these  and  cover  with  boiling  water  in 
which  has  been  put  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  let  this  stand  an  hour. 
Drain,  and  pepper  the  slices  and  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  the  piec  es  in  boiling  fat.  Or  the  slices  can  be  fried  in  just  enough 
pork  fat  or  >acon  to  brown  them. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. 

Boil  about  four  ounces  of  macaroni,  broken  up  in  small  pieces  in 
a  little  salted  water  about  fifteen  minutes.  Grate  a  quantity  of  cheese. 
Put  in  an  earthen  dish  a  layer  of  macaroni,  a  layer  of  grated  cheese, 
bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  another  layer  of  macaroni,  then  cheese 
until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over  it  all  enough  milk  and  cream  to  come 
to  the  top.    Bake  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Macaroni  with  Tomato. 

Boil  in  a  little  salted  water  a  little  macaroni  (about  a  cupful) 
a  few  minutes,  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  canned  tomatoes.  Season  with 
pieces  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  minced  onion  and  sprinkle  sifted 
bread  crumbs  on  top.    Bake  in  hot  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Italian  Macaroni. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef,  about  two  pounds,  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork, 
two  chopped  onions.  Let  all  cook  for  awhile ;  add  a  quart  of  toma- 
toes, pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  all  for  three  hours.  Boil  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  macaroni  fifteen  minutes,  put  a  layer  in  a  dish,  cover  with 
some  of  the  mixture  above,  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  filled.    Bake  an  hour.  4e 

ISI^Anything  from  a  calling  card  to  a  large  show  card  embossed  in  colors,  or 
from  a  circular  to  a  history  of  the  world,  can  be  produced  by  the  Swinburne  Printing 
Company,  9-11-13  Washington  avenue  north. 


COMMON  SENSE  COOK  BOOK.  153 

Boiled  Onions  in  Cream. 

Wash  and  peel,  cook  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  do  not  pour  off 
all  the  water.  Add  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  piece  of  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 

Fried  Onions. 

Cut  in  thin  slices,  boil  in  a  little  salted  water.  Add  a  generous 
supply  of  butter  or  beef  drippings ;  season.  Cover  closely  and  fry  un- 
til brown. 

Scalloped  Onions. 

Slice  large  onions  in  thin  slices.  Put  in  a  dish  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  pieces  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  then  a  layer  of  the  onion. 
Do  this  until  the  dish  is  full.  Moisten  with  milk  enough  to  fill  up  the 
dish.    Bake  an  hour. 

Green  Peas. 

Boil  green  peas  until  tender ;  drain.  Put  in  a  sauce  pan  two  table- 
spoons butter,  one  of  flour,  a  little  sugar.  Stir  until  well  mixed ;  add 
a  cup  of  cream,  the  peas  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil. 

Prepare  canned  peas  in  the  same  way.  Leave  out  the  thickening 
and  sugar  if  one  prefers. 

Potatoes,  Boiled  or  Baked. 

Peel  and  put  to  soak  in  cold  water.  Select  ones  as  near  of  a  size 
as  possible ;  leave  the  small  ones  to  be  cooked  for  mashed  potatoes. 
Boil  thirty  minutes  in  boiling  water  in  which  has  been  thrown  a  hand- 
ful of  salt.  Try  with  a  fork  and  remove  as  soon  as  done.  Drain  and 
set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  with  the  cover  partly  off  to  let  the  steam 
escape.  Clean  potatoes  for  baking  with  a  small  brush.  Cut  out  all 
the  black  spots,  and  bake  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Baked  potatoes  should  not  stand  a  moment,  but  be  served  immediately. 

Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Take  potatoes  and  slice  thin,  put  in  a  dish  in  layers.  Between  put 
bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  enough  sweet  milk  to  fill 
the  dish.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Cold  boiled  potatoes  can 
be  used  in  place  of  raw. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. 

One  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  small  slices,  one  chopped 
onion,  three  tablespoons  of  butter.  Season  with  chopped  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper.  Fry  onions  in  the  butter,  then  add  potatoes.  Stir 
arefully  so  as  not  to  break.    Serve  on  a  hot  dish.  4f 


154  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

After  boiled  potatoes  are  drained,  mash  thoroughly ;  add  milk, 
cream,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  until  smooth.  The  longer  they  are 
beaten  the  better.  Put  in  a  vegetable  dish.  Smooth  and  press  down 
with  a  spoon  and  knife.  Put  bits  of  butter  on  top,  and  a  little  pepper. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Potato  Balls. 

Take  mashed  potatoes  left  from  dinner,  mix  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  and  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and 
butter.  If  not  moist  enough  add  a  little  cream.  Mold  into  balls  with 
the  hand,  and  fry  or  bake  brown. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  cubes  or  slices.  Cover  with  milk, 
season  with  pieces  of  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  parsley. 

Saratogo  Potatoes. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.  Skim  out  and  put  in  a 
covered  dish.     Sprinkle  over  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 

Sweet  Potatoes. 

These  can  be  baked  or  boiled.  They  are  the  best  baked.  When 
cold  they  can  be  fried  or  creamed  the  same  as  other  potatoes.  They 
are  nice  cooked  till  tender  and  browned  with  roast  beef. 

Rice. 

Rice  should  be  thoroughly  washed  in  several  waters.  It  is  cooked 
in  several  ways.    It  is  the  best  steamed. 

Steamed  Rice. — To  one  cup  of  rice  add  two  cups  of  boiling  water, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  half  an  hour. 
Stir  with  a  fork  to  let  the  steam  escape,  and  cover.     Cook  until  the 

water  is  absorbed  and  the  rice  is  tender. 

Savory  Rice. 

Fry  a  table  spoonful  of  chopped  onion  in  one  of  butter  until  yellow. 
Add  one  cup  of  uncooked  rice.  Then  add  one  pint  of  chicken  stock 
and  steam  thirty  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  This  is  an  excellent  side 
dish.  Season  if  desired  fcwith  cayenne  pepper,  chopped  parsley  and 
herbs.  4g 

JJ^*Caswell'»  Blood  Cleaner  will  purify  the  blood. 
Use  Chap-OLene  for  all  roughness  of  the  skin. 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO.  155 


Squash. 

Squash  can  be  either  steamed  or  baked.  If  steamed  remove  from 
shell,  and  mash  and  season  with  a  liberal  supply  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  If  baked,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  serve.  Let  each 
individual  season  his  own  to  taste. 

Turnips. 

Cook  these  from  one  to  two  hours.  Cut  in  thin  slices.  Mash  fine 
and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Some  pour  white  sauce  over 
them. 

Parsnips. 

These,  to  be  fit  to  eat,  should  remain  in  the  ground  during  the 
winter.  Boil,  cut  into  half -inch  pieces  and  serve  with  cream  sauce, 
or  fry  pieces  in  frying  pan  with  lard  or  drippings. 

Tomatoes. 

Scald,  peel  and  cut  in  slices.  Cook  as  rapidly  as  possible.  Sea- 
son with  a  large  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  sugar. 
Canned  tomatoes  can  be  used  the  same  way.  Serve  with  toast  if  de- 
sired.   A  little  minced  onion  flavors  them  nicely.  4h 


GOLD  DUST  FLOUR 


Is  Equal  to  the 


Highest  award  at  the  World's  Fair. 


AD.  ON  PAGE  78. 


156 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


Ask  your  Grocer  for  Flour  made  in 
THE 

PHOENIX    MILL, 

And  see  that  you  get  it. 

PHOENIX  BEST 

Is. highly  recommended  by  the  author 
of  this  book. 


AD.  ON  PAGE  60. 


THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO.  157 


INDEX. 

Page. 

Angels  Food 20 

Apple  Charlotte 59 

Apple  Snow 57 

Balls  for  Soup 102 

Biscuits 11 

Blanc  Mange 57 

Bread  ; 5  to  9 

Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes 10  to  16 

Buckwheat  Cakes 13 

Cake 17  to  30 

Candy 36  to  38 

Catsups 130 

Charlotte  Russe 53  and  55 

Cheese  Sandwiches 99 

Cookies 31  to  35 

Corn  Beef  Hash 99 

Creams  and  Custards 53  to  61 

Creams  and  Ices 41  to  51 

Crullers 64 

Crumpets 16 

Custards 53 

Doughnuts  and  Crullers 63  to  64 

Dumplings 102 

Dutch  Cheese — 10i 

Eggs 65  to  69 

Egg  Sandwiches  99 

Fish 77to79 

Frappie 45 

Fritters 73  to  75 

Frosting 71  to  72 

Gems 13 

Gravies 98 

Griddle  Cakes  13* 

Hash 99 

Hermits 3j 

How  to  Be  Happy 32 

Ices  and  Creams 41 

Johnny  Cake 12 

Jumbles 31  and  33 

Lettuce  Sandwiches 99 

Lobsters 102 


158  THE   WEINHOLB  DRUG  CO. 

Page. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 152 

Meats 85  to  93 

Meat  Pie ,. 101 

Mince  Meat 107 

Miscellaneous  Recipes 99  to  102 

Muffins 11 

Mush 14 

Orange  Souffle -• 59 

Oyster  Dressing , 102 

Pastry "...  103  to  110 

Peach  Cobbler 109 

Pickles  Ill  to  114 

Pies 103 

Pop  Overs 14 

Poultry  and  Game .» 93  to  97 

Preserves  and  Jellies 115  to  119 

Puddings 120  to  126 

Pudding  Sauce 126  to  129 

punches 51 

Rolls .' 12 

Salads " 133  to  138 

Sally  Lunn 12 

Sauces  and  Catsups 130  to  132 

Scalloped  Mutton 101 

Shell  Fish 81  to  83 

ShortCake 109 

Snaps 33 

Soups 140tol48 

Succotash : 151 

Tarts HO 

Toasts 15 

Turbot • 79 

TurkishRice 101 

Vegetables 149  to  155 

Wafers 35 

Wafflea 14 

Washington  Pie 109 

Welsh  Rarebit 15 

Yeast 7 


S 


£- 


THE    WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO.  159 


Index  to  Advertisements, 

Page. 

Adams  Manufacturing  Co 160 

Anglo-American  Drug  Company 84 

Beeman  Chemical  Company 26 

Val  Blatz  Brewing  Company    80 

Bruceline  Company 124 

California  Fig  Syrup  Company    50 

J.  W.  Cole  &  Company 54 

Crescent  Creamery  Company 94 

Jos.  Dixon  Crucible  Company 34 

Dorsett,  the  Caterer 100 

Emerson  Drug  Company 52 

Fountain  Spring  Water  Company 92 

Great  Northern  Soap  Co * 139 

MaxGessler 90 

Healey  &  Bigelow 74 

Holly  Flouring  Mills ." 78-155 

Fred  T.  Hopkins 66 

E.  W.  Hoyt  &  Company 104 

W.J.  Hurd 68 

Minneapolis  Brewing  Company 38 

The  Morgan  Drug  Company 58 

New  York  Condensed  Milk  Company 42 

J.  P.  Olds 44 

J.  C.  Paul  &  Company 48 

Penna.  Salt  Manufacturing  Company 40 

Phoenix  Mill  Company.... 60-156 

H.  B.  Piatt 108 

Ponds  Extract  Company  128 

Radam's  Microbe  Killer 56 

D.  Ransom,  Son  &  Company 76 

Geo.A.  Scott 86-118 

Dr.  R.  Shiffmann " 30,35,  51,61,72,83,96,97,98,  110 

Spencerian  Medicine  Company 70 

Swift  &  Company 4,22,108,135,148 

Swinburne  Printing  Company 32 

Towle  Syrup  Company 62,131,144 

Washburn-Crosby  Company 88 

J.  R.  Watkins  Medical  Company 112 

Weinhold  Drug  Company 18-28 


160  THE   WEINHOLD  DRUG  CO. 


WHEN 


your  chairs  break,  mend  them 
with 


ADAHS'  LIQUID  GLUE, 
"THE  KIND  THAT  STICKS.'' 


DAMS'  LIQUID  GLUE, 

"the  kind  that  STICKS." 


DAMS'  LIQUID  GLUE, 

"THE  KIND  THAT  STICKS" 


Vfl  1 1  can  *asten  tnat  le£  *n  y°ur  ta^e 
TUU  with 

A 

i  J  r&in     your  bric-a-brac,  etc.,  etc., 

MEND         w^ 

A 

1MV/TSIIMP      can  be  mended  to  stay 

ANYTHING         with 

ADAMS'  LIQUID  GLUE, 
"THE  KIND  THAT  STICKS." 

II Q  r      every  precaution  to  see  that  you 
U  O  L  employ 

ADAMS'  LIQUID  GLUE, 
"THE  KIND  THAT  STICKS." 

EVERY  BOTTLE  WARRANTED  TO  GIVE 
ENTIRE  SATISFACTION. 

WHEN  YOU  CLEAN  HOUSE, 

Do  not  fail  to  brighten  up  your  old,  dull  and  lustreless  Furniture, 
Piano,  Organ,  Sewing  Machine,  etc.,  with 

ADAMS'  FURNITURE  POLISH, 

ADAMS  MANUFACTURING  CO., 
MINNEAPOLIS,  -  -  MINNESOTA. 


/* 


fU 


^^rn 


w^pnmNj^fa*^ 


^AfiM/fc 


'MM^mm^MmMi 


aa/  ■'-.  - 


'liSi 


5 

Si 


A<1  AOA,Aao 


mbto 


AftAftA 


^n^  nA^^A 


www 


iKaPWW 


A-AAOftCviKRfcR*^ 


M^*M^r 


r^/V^AAAA 


^j^^^m^f 


W^»% 


zmfimw'? 


ft  a^Aa:  >'£  A'Affifflfci  A  a  5  R  s 


^^0W$*™ 


mer^sm®msR 


,A0'         lr:    AHlX 


aWAA'*AAA 


i.*  i'jmf 


*mm 


4$S!^ 


q*aap 


AAaA 


MT*^ 


A*fV\*u**A^ 


ffipi 


mmmsm 


C&i&£*'*i 


mmmrz 


mm 


mBm 


WV 


*  .  A^       •   s  .  A  A'     A.VJ3< 


:aaaa'aa/^aa^kK 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  488  661  6 


^& 


