THE  COOKBOOK 

^  OF 

LEFT-OVERS 


rf"i8f¥li' 


lERKElEY 

LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY   OF 
CALIFORNIA 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

AGRICUITIIRE 
BEQUEST 
OF 
ANITA  D.  S.  BLAKE 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  witii  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


littp://www.arcliive.org/details/cookbool<ofleftovOOclarricli 


■BOOKS  FOR- 


HOME  AND  HOUSEHOLD 

Simple  Italian  Cookery 

By  ANTONIA  ISOLA 

This  book  of  Italian  recipes  was  compiled  by  an  authority, 
and  is  most  practical.     The  American  housekeeper  will  find 
many  interesting  and  valuable  suggestions  tor  new  ways  of 
cooking  even  the  most  familiar  articles  of  food. 
16mo,  Cloth,  50  cents  net. 

Harper's  Cook-Book  Encyclopaedia 

Made  like  a  dictionary,  so  that  one  may  turn  instantly  to 
the  recipe  desired.  Written  by  the  most  famous  cookery 
authorities. 

Bound  in  Washable  Pigskin  Leather.    Illustrated.    Si  .50. 

The  Expert  Waitress 

By  ANNE  FRANCES  SPRINGSTEED 

Admirably  clear  and  precise  directions  as  to  the  whole  duty 
of  a  waitress  at  breakfast,  luncheon,  afternoon  tea,  dinner, 
and  supper.    Cloth,  $1.00  net. 

The  Expert  Maid  Servant 

By  CHRISTINE  TERHUNE  HERRICK 

Designed  for  housekeepers  of  moderate  means,  and  treats 
of  all  problems  in  which  mistress  and  maid  are  alike  vitally 
interested.     16mo,  Cloth,  SI. 00  net. 

The  Baby :     His  Care  and  Training 

By  MARIANNA  WHEELER 
A  Manual  for  Mothers  and  Nurses,  including  Hygiene  for 
the  Prospective  Mother  and  Practical  Directions  for  the  Care 
and  Feeding  of  Children.    16mo,  Cloth,  SI. 00  net. 

Manners  and  Social  Usages 

This  new  edition  of  the  book  that  for  years  has  been  the 
most  authoritative  standard  of  correct  manners  has   been 
revised  by  the  editor  of  Harper's  Bazar.    It  covers  the  entire 
field  of  what  to  do  and  what  not  to  do  in  social  affairs. 
Illustrated.     Post  8vo,  Cloth,  SI. 26. 


i^ARPER  &  BROTHERS. 


COPYRIGHT.   1911,    BY    HARPER   a    BROTHERS 


PRINTED    IN   THE    UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA 
H-N 

AGRIOiLTURE 
ntnrr 


-~i   6 


AGRIC. 
LIBRARY 


CONTENTS 


PAGB 

vi 


Preface    

Introduction 3 

Meats        5 

What  to  do  with  Left-over  Beep     ...         7 
What   to    do    with    Left-over    Lamb    and 

Mutton 23 

What  to  do  with  Left-over  Veal  and  Pork      ^^ 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Ham  and  Bacon 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Poultry 

Sauces       

What  to  do  with  Left-over  Fish     .     . 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Vegetables 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Cereals  . 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Bread 
What  to  do  with  Bits  op  Cheese     .     . 
What  to  do  with  Sour  Milk  and  Cream 
What  to  do  with  Whites  or  Yolks  of  Eggs 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Fruit  .     . 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Beverages 
What  to  do  with  Left-over  Cake    .     . 
Dainty  Dishes  from  Little  Bits       .     . 
Index       ...,,.,.,,.. 


45 
53 
67 
81 

lOI 

131 
149 

165 
177 
187 
197 
213 
223 
231 

235 


138 


PREFACE 


This  book  is  not  intended  as  a  substitute  for  the 
regular  cook  book.  It  aims  to  be  simply  a  prac- 
tical handybook  for  the  average  housekeeper,  who 
cannot  afford  to  waste  food  which  has  been  left 
over  from  her  table,  and  who  nevertheless  desires 
to  serve  the  best  and  most  attractive  dishes. 

In  the  average  small  family  where  there  are  no 
servants,  or  perhaps  one  servant,  setting  a  table 
with  the  very  least  margin  of  ampleness  means 
that  there  will  inevitably  follow  some  left-over 
food.  In  addition  to  this,  it  is  sometimes  wise 
deliberately  to  plan  for  a  remainder  (especially 
where  the  first-cooking  process  is  a  long  one,  or 
where  the  food  itself  admits  of  reheating  to  ad- 
vantage) in  order  to  spare  time  and  labor  to  the 
cook.  Therefore,  both  from  necessity  and  choice, 
the  interested  home-maker  finds  herself  facing  the 
problem  of  how  to  make  the  most  and  best  of  a 
left-over  food  supply.  It  is  for  such  women  that 
this  book  has  been  written. 

Many  of  the  finest  dishes — dishes  over  which 

V 


INTRODUCTION 


What  to  Keep  on  Hand 

From  experience  it  has  been  found  that  it  will 
facilitate  the  preparation  of  made-over  dishes  if 
the  following  supplies  and  utensils  are  always  at 
hand  : 

Supplies  , 

Seasonings,  spices,  and   herbs  of  all  kinds,  in- 
cluding cayenne  pepper  or  paprika. 
Catsups  and  piquant  sauces. 
Small  cans  of  vegetables,  meats,  fish,  and  soup. 
Extract  of  beef  or  bouillon  cubes. 
Canned  sweet  peppers. 
Salad  dressings. 

Tomato  paste.     (Italian  stores  carry  this.) 
Grated  parmesan  cheese,  in  bottles. 
Jar  of  sifted  bread-crumbs. 
Unsweetened  crackers. 
Cans  of  sweetened  condensed  milk. 
Cans  of  unsweetened  evaporated  milk. 
Potato  flour.     (Jewish  stores  carry  this.) 

Utensils 

Meat  chopper. 

Double  boiler  (or  two  saucepans  that  fit  one  in 
the  other). 

3 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Inexpensive  wire  frying-basket. 
Individual  baking-dishes,  such  as  ramekins  or 
shells. 

Dover  egg  beater. 

Measurements 

All  successftii  cooks  measure.  Some  do  it  with 
their  eyes,  and  with  such  nicety  that  they  forget 
the  process  and  declare  they  never  measure,  but 
to  them  a  "lump"  of  butter  and  a  "pinch"  of 
seasoning  are  definite  units  of  measurement.  But 
these  are  unsafe  guides  to  follow.  For  receipts  in 
this  book  use  the  standard  half-pint  measuring- 
cup,  with  the  subdivisions  plainly  marked. 

All  measures  should  be  level  for  dry  materials, 
and  full  'for  liquids.  A  "  cup  of  milk  "  means  a  cup 
so  filled  that  it  cannot  be  safely  carried  across 
the  room  without  spilling.  Flour  should  be  sifted 
once  before  measuring,  and  never  packed  down 
in  the  cup.  A  "spoonful"  of  dry  ingredients, 
such  as  salt  or  flour,  is  not  "heaping,"  but  level — 
scraped  level  with  a  knife. 


MEATS 


Intelligent  Buying  of  Meats 

When  buying  meat  remember  the  left-over  which 
may  follow,  and  which  may  need  a  sauce.  Have 
all  bones  that  are  removed  from  roasts  and  other 
cuts  of  meat  sent  home  from  the  market.  They 
make  excellent  stock  for  sauces  and  soup.  Always 
ask  for  a  marrow-bone  with  all  soup  and  stewing 
meat;  marrow  is  an  excellent  shortening,  and  can 
be  made  into  an  acceptable  luncheon  dish.  In 
preparing  French  chops,  crown  of  lamb,  and 
similar  cuts  for  cooking,  enough  trimmings  are 
often  paid  for  and  thrown  away  to  make  a  savory 
dish.  Have  these  sent  home.  Remember,  an 
allowance  of  suet  goes  with  most  cuts  of  beef. 
Do  not  let  it  accumulate.  Wipe  carefully  with  a 
damp  cloth,  try  out  in  a  slow  oven,  and  keep  in 
a  covered  earthen  jar.  Keep  all  fat  from  fried 
bacon  in  a  separate  jar;  it  is  valuable  for  browning 
and  seasoning  purposes.  Equal  parts  of  chicken 
fat,  flank  suet,  and  butter  make  an  excellent  short- 
ening, which  will  keep  for  some  time  in  a  cool  place, 
and  can  be  used  instead  of  butter. 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Intelligent  Cooking  of  Left-over  Meats 

The  greatest  care  must  be  taken  not  to  destroy 
their  digestibility.  Never  subject  them  to  great 
heat  for  a  long  time.  Whenever  possible,  let  a 
hot  sauce  do  most  of  the  heating  of  rare,  tender 
meat.  Long,  slow  cooking  is  sometimes  neces- 
sary to  blend  flavors  and  soften  the  hardened 
fibers  of  some  cooked  meats,  but  always  keep  the 
heat  moderate.  A  double  boiler  is  a  good  utensil 
for  such  cooking. 

Intelligent  Seasoning  of  Left-over  Meats 

As  a  rule,  reheated  meats  need  to  be  more  high- 
ly seasoned  than  freshly  cooked  ones.  It  is  not 
wise,  however,  to  crowd  too  many  flavors  into  one 
dish,  or  always  use  the  same  seasoning  for  the 
same  dish.  The  exact  amount  of  salt  and  pepper 
must  be  determined  by  the  seasoning  already  in 
the  meat. 

Intelligent  Care  of  Left-over  Meat 

Eternal  vigilance  is  the  price  of  health.  Cooked 
meats  are  particularly  attractive  to  flies,  and  flies 
are  deadly.  Do  not  put  warm  meat  in  the  ice- 
box. Cover  while  cooling  with  inexpensive  wire 
covers  that  come  for  the  purpose.  Do  not  forget 
it  after  it  goes  in  the  ice-box,  but  arrange  for  its 
prompt  use. 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER  BEEF 


The  Sunday  Roast  and  Good  Carving 

Practise  the  art  of  good  carving.  A  well-carved 
joint  looks  better,  tastes  better,  and  goes  further. 

Gold  Roast  Beef  with  Horseradish  Sauce 

Let  the  first  use  of  left-over  roast  beef  be  the 
serving  of  it  sliced  and  cold — it  is  a  mistake  to  miss 
this  use.  Cut  thin  slices  of  the  rare  beef,  arrange 
nicely  on  a  cold  platter,  and  garnish  with  something 
green  and  crisp.  Vary  by  serving  different  cold 
sauces  with  the  meat.  Serve  a  vegetable  salad  at 
the  same  meal. 

Horseradish  Sauce 

Season  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horserad- 
ish with  one-quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
sugar,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Whip 
one-quarter  cup  of  thick  cream  stiff  and  add  it  to 
the  horseradish.  If  there  is  no  cream,  a  good 
sauce  may  be  made  by  soaking  an  equal  quantity 
of  grated  horseradish  and  soft  white  bread-crumbs 
with  twi^e  as  much  milk,  imtil  Xhe  mass  ig  cjuit^ 

7 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

soft.  Season  with  salt,  sugar,  and  vinegar,  and 
press  through  a  fine  wire  sieve.  The  sauce  should 
be  of  creamy  thickness. 

Roast  Beef  Sandwiches,  Served  Hot 

For  four  good-sized  sandwiches  make  one  cup  of 
brown  sauce  (see  page  68),  adding  to  it.  when 
cooked,  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  minced  sour 
pickle.  Cut  very  thin  as  many  slices  of  cold  rare 
roast  beef  as  needed.  Cream  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  add  to  it  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
made  mustard.  Spread  the  bread  with  this.  Dip 
the  slices  of  beef  in  the  hot  sauce  and  place  them 
on  the  bread.  Sprinkle  with  a  very  little  chopped 
or  crushed  cold  bacon  before  putting  on  the  top 
slice  of  bread.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  the 
boiling  sauce  over  all. 

Rare  Roast  Beef  in  Savory  Tomato  Sauce 

Boil  together  for  ten  minutes 

2  cups  tomatoes  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

2  cloves  Sprig  of  parsley 

3  peppercorns  J  teaspoonful  salt 

Strain.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  butter;  when 
bubbling,  add  two  tablespoonftils  flour  and  stir 
until  blended.  Gradually  add  the  tomato,  beating 
to  avoid  thickening  unevenly.  Let  sauce  boil  up 
for  one  minute.  Arrange  the  beef  on  a  hot  platter 
and  pour  the  boiling  sauce  over  it.  One  teaspoon- 
ful of  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  the  sauce 
just  before  taking  up. 

8 


BEEF 


Beef  Loaf  (of  Cold  Beef) 

This  is  an  acceptable  way  of  using  any  of  the 
small  pieces  of  "well-done"  roast  beef,  making  an 
excellent  luncheon  or  supper  dish,  especially  in  hot 
weather. 

Soak  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup 
of  cold  water  ten  minutes.  Heat  three-quarters 
of  a  cup  of  well-seasoned  stewed  tomatoes  to  boil- 
ing, and  pour  over  the  gelatine,  stirring  well  until 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Have  ready  two  cups  of 
chopped  and  seasoned  meat,  mixed  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice  and  one  small  sour  pickle 
minced  fine.  Stir  the  tomato  into  the  meat  mixt- 
ure, and  mold  in  an  earthen  dish.  This  amount 
will  fill  a  quart  dish  half  full. 

Beef  Pie 

Cut  cold  roast  beef  into  inch-square  pieces,  using 
two  cups.  Put  into  a  quart  baking-dish  and  season 
with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup  or  one-third 
cup  of  cooked  and  seasoned  tomatoes.  Pour  over 
the  meat  one  cup  of  liquid,  using  equal  quantities 
of  made  gravy  and  hot  water.  Cover  with  a  crust 
made  of  baking-powder-biscuit  dough.  For  this 
amount  of  meat  use  for  the  dough 

I  cup  flour  I  teaspoonful  baking- 

I    tablespoonful  powder 

butter  \  teaspoonful  salt 

About  I  cup  of  milk 

Fire  Island  Stew 

A  good  Monday  dinner  when  a  Sunday  roast  and 
macaroni  have  preceded  it. 
9 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  one  small 
sliced  onion,  and  cook  together  until  very  slightly 
browned.  To  this  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
stewed  tomatoes  and  let  boil  slowly  for  about 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  tomato  is  somewhat 
thickened.  Then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
cooked  macaroni  and  let  all  cook  together  until 
well  thickened.  Just  before  the  dinner  hour,  put 
into  the  saucepan  one  and  one-half  to  two  cups  of 
remnants  of  the  tender  roast  beef,  cut  small,  and 
let  heat.  A  very  few  minutes  will  suffice.  Do 
not  let  the  stew  boil  after  the  meat  is  added. 

Beef  Souffle 

2  cups   chopped  beef     2  eggs 

1  cup    fresh  bread-     i  teaspoonful  of 

crumbs  chopped    parsley 

2  cups  white  sauce      i  teaspoonful    onion- 

No.  2  (page  68)  juice 

Have  the  white  sauce  ready  and  cooled.  Season 
the  meat  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley,  and 
onion-juice.  Mix  meat,  bread-crumbs,  and  white 
sauce  well  together.  Separate  the  eggs  and  add 
the  beaten  yolks  to  the  meat  mixture.  Beat  the 
whites  stiff  and  carefully  fold  them  in.  Turn  the 
mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking-dish  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  at  once  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

Pot-Roast  Pie 

Remove  the  seeds  and  parboil  one  medium-sized 
sweet  green  pepper  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes. 
Cut  into  thin  slices  and  sprinkle  a  few  in  the  bot- 
10 


BEEF 


torn  of  an  earthen  baking-dish.  Cover  with  thin 
slices  of  cold  pot-roast.  Add  a  few  fine  bread- 
crumbs, moisten  with  any  of  the  pot-roast  gravy  at 
hand,  or  stock.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  nearly 
filled. 

Peel  four  good-sized  tomatoes,  if  in  season;  cut 
in  halves  and  place  on  top.  Or  the  whole  ones 
from  a  can  may  be  used  instead.  Season  thor- 
oughly with  salt  and  pepper  and  finish  with  a 
sprinkling  of  well-buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender,  cover- 
ing for  the  first  ten  minutes.  Serve  in  the  baking- 
dish. 

Braised  Meat  Balls  (from  Meat  Trimmings) 

2  cups  meat  2  tablespoonfuls 

I  teaspoonful  salt  fine  bread-crumbs 

i  teaspoonful  pepper       i  egg 

Carefully  wipe,  and  remove  most  of  the  fat  from, 
any  tough  ends  of  uncooked  beefsteak,  or  other 
meat  trimmings  of  beef  or  lamb,  or  both.  Put 
them  through  a  meat  chopper  or  chop  fine.  Mix 
all  together  and  form  into  balls — this  amount  will 
make  eight  medium-sized  ones.  Brown  lightly  in 
a  little  bacon  fat.  Put  one-half  can  of  well- 
seasoned  tomatoes  in  an  earthen  baking-dish  or 
casserole.  Add  one  cup  each  of  carrots  and  celery 
cut  in  cubes,  one  slice  of  green  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper.  Lay  the  meat  balls  on  top,  add  any 
bacon  fat  left  from  browning  them,  and  cover  the 
dish  tightly.  Cook  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  un- 
til the  vegetables  are  tender — about  two  hours. 
Serve  in  the  baking-dish. 
2  II 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Twentieth-Century  Hash 

Have  baked  six  medium-sized  potatoes.  With 
a  spoon  carefully  remove  the  potato,  leaving  rest  of 
skin  unbroken.  Season  the  potato  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  or 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper, 
stirring  lightly  with  a  fork,  but  do  not  mash  the 
potato.  Add  one  cup  of  any  kind  of  well-seasoned 
chopped  beef  that  has  been  moistened  with  a  little 
gravy,  stock,  or  Worcestershire  sauce.  Fill  the 
skins  with  this  mixture,  letting  it  rise  a  little  above 
the  top.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  and  heat 
in  oven.  Grated  cheese  may  be  used  instead  of 
meat. 

Surprise  Biscuits  (with  Beef) 

i^  cups  flour  3    teaspoonfuls    bak- 

2  tablespoonfuls  short-  ing-powder 

ening  |  teaspoonful  salt 

About  I  cup  of  milk 

Make  a  biscuit  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled, 
pat  it  lightly,  roll  into  a  thin  sheet,  and  cut  with  a 
biscuit  cutter.  Have  ready  one  cup  of  well- 
seasoned  minced  beef  that  has  been  moistened  with 
a  little  gravy,  stock,  or  milk.  Form  into  sand- 
wiches by  spreading  the  meat  lightly  on  half  of  the 
biscuits  and  cover  with  the  other  half,  pressing 
them  together  at  the  edges.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.  This  amount  will  make  nine  good- 
sized  sandwiches.  A  brown  gravy  may  be  poured 
over  them  if  desired.     Serve  hot. 

Stuffed  Peppers  (with  Beef) 

Parboil  four  to  six  green  peppers  for  five  min- 
utes.    Prepare  a  mixture  of  cooked  rice  and  rare 

12 


BEEF 


roast  beef  or  steak,  seasoned  and  chopped  fine. 
Moisten  with  a  little  brown  sauce  (see  page  68) 
made  from  soup  stock.  Stuff  the  peppers  with 
this  mixture  and  put  buttered  bread-crumbs  on 
top.  Place  in  a  baking-pan  and  bake  about  twenty- 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  with  water  and 
butter — one  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  half  a  cup 
of  hot  water — as  they  cook.  Serve  on  small  pieces 
of  toast  and  pour  the  remaining  brown  sauce 
around. 

Stuffed  Cabbage  (with  Beef)  with  Brown  Sauce 

Use  Savoy  cabbage.  Wash  it  and  put  in  boiling 
water  for  five  minutes  to  allow  the  leaves  to  open. 
Chop  and  season  the  remnants  of  rare  roast  beef 
and  put  the  meat  between  the  leaves  of  the  cab- 
bage. Tie  the  cabbage  carefully  to  retain  the 
shape.  Have  ready  two  cups  of  brown  sauce  (see 
page  68)  and  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar and  a  few  slices  of  carrot  and  onion.  Put  the 
cabbage  in  the  sauce,  and  cook  very  slowly  about 
three  hours.     Baste  occasionally. 

Minced  Beef  with  Potato  Border 

To  two  cups  of  well  -  seasoned  mashed  potato 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  together  until 
very  light  and  creamy.  Form  this  mixture  into  a 
border  on  a  round,  flat  baking- dish.  Score  the  top. 
Season  two  cups  of  any  kind  of  cold  chopped  beef 
with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  onion-juice,  obtained 
by  pressing  the  cut  surface  of  an  onion  against  a 
grater  and  moving  it  slightly;  one  teaspoonful 
finely  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
enough  stock  or  milk  to  moisten  it  well.  Place  the 
13 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

meat  inside  of  the  potato  border  and  brown  lightly 
in  a  hot  oven. 

A  Scallop  of  Roast  Beef  with  Rice 

Season  the  rice  with  one  teaspoonful  of  bacon  fat 
to  each  cup  of  cooked  rice  used,  and  put  a  layer 
in  a  baking  -  dish.  Cover  with  cold  roast  beef 
chopped  not  too  fine,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  or 
stewed  tomatoes,  seasoned  well  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  dots  of  butter.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is 
nearly  filled,  and  cover  with  buttered  bread- 
crumbs. Brown  lightly  in  oven.  If  sliced  to- 
matoes are  used,  cook  until  these  are  tender. 

Irish  Rissoles 

Any  kind  of  meat  may  be  used  for  these,  prefer- 
ably rare  roast  beef  or  steak.  Put  the  meat 
through  the  meat  grinder  together  with  enough 
chives  to  flavor  it.  (A  little  onion  may  be  used 
if  chives  cannot  be  obtained.)  Add  soft  bread- 
crumbs from  inside  of  loaf,  seasoning,  and  enough 
milk  to  shape  the  rissoles.  Form  into  round  balls 
and  saute  in  a  very  little  hot  fat,  turning  them 
often,  that  all  sides  may  be  brown.  For  five  small 
rissoles  use  one  cup  of  minced  beef,  a  few  chives, 
or  half  a  small  onion,  nearly  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs, 
and  a  third  of  a  cup  of  milk.  They  may  be  served 
plain  or  with  white  sauce,  and  are  very  quickly 
made. 

Meat  Dumplings 

Season   one   cup   of   chopped   meat   with   salt, 
pepper,  and  a  drop  or  two  of  Tabasco  sauce.     Sift 
together  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  flour,  one  and 
14 


BEEF 


one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  one  egg  until 
light,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  stir 
this  into  the  flour  mixture.  If  this  does  not  wet 
up  all  of  the  flour  add  more  milk.  The  dough 
should  be  very  stiff.  Stir  the  meat  into  this,  and 
drop  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  stock  or  boiling 
salted  water  and  cook,  tightly  covered,  about  ten 
minutes.     Serve  at  once  with  tomato  sauce. 

Shepherd's  Pie 

Minced  roast  beef  Butter  (mashed  with 

Mashed  potatoes  potatoes) 

Salt  and  pepper  Roast  beef  gravy 

Put  beef  and  potatoes  in  layers  in  a  buttered 
baking  -  dish,  having  potatoes  at  the  bottom. 
Moisten  meat  layers  generously  with  gravy.  Sea- 
son to  taste.  Have  top  layer  potatoes;  dot  over 
with  bits  of  butter,  and  brown.  This  dish  requires 
much  rich  gravy. 

Roast  Lamb  or  Beef  Re-heated 

In  warming  up  a  leg  of  lamb  or  standing  rib- 
roast  of  beef  heap  up  the  cavity  left  after  carving 
with  mashed  potato.  Brush  over  with  melted 
butter  and  brown  in  oven. 

Beef  Balls  with  Horseradish  Sauce 

Season  a  cup  and  a  half  of  cold  chopped  beef 
with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  very  little  onion- 
juice,  and  lemon-juice ;  add  one  beaten  egg  and 
form  into  balls.  Roll  the  balls  in  a  very  little 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  toss  the  balls  around 
15 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

in  it  until  well  heated.      Serve  with  horseradish 
sauce  (see  page  7). 

Corned -Beef  Hash 

This  dish  is  most  acceptably  prepared  by  using 
some  of  the  fat  meat  chopped  with  the  lean.  To 
two  cups  of  meat  chopped  rather  coarse,  allow  two 
cups  of  chopped  potatoes.  If  the  meat  is  all  lean, 
pour  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  over 
the  potatoes  before  mixing  them  with  the  beef. 
Moisten  well  with  milk  or  stock,  using  at  least  one- 
half  cup  of  liquid.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Melt  a  little  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  put  in  the  hash, 
cover  tightly,  and  cook  slowly  on  the  cool  part  of 
the  stove  for  at  least  half  an  hour.  It  should  be 
brown  and  crusty  on  the  bottom.  If  it  is  not, 
increase  the  heat  just  before  turning  out. 

Corned-Beef-and-Beet  Hash 

Use  about  equal  amounts  of  cooked  corned  beef 
and  boiled  potatoes,  and  a  little  less  quantity  of 
cooked  beets.  Chop  all  three  separately.  Mix 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Try  out  a  few 
thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  until  crisp,  chop  and 
add  to  mixture;  use  the  fat  (or  part  of  it)  in 
warming  up  the  hash.  Moisten  with  hot  water. 
Heat  in  hot  frying-pan,  turning  often  to  keep  it 
from  sticking.  This  mixture  may  be  formed  into 
balls,  rolled  in  flour,  and  then  browned. 

Corned  Beef  Creamed 

Slice  any  remnants  of  cold  corned  beef  in  thin 
pieces  to  make  two  cups.     Make  two  cups  white 
sauce  No.    2    (see  page  68).     Cook  until  smooth 
16 


BEEF 


and  thickened,   then   add   the   two  cups   of  beef. 
Cook  very  slowly  together  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Beef  Soup 

A  good  soup  can  be  made  of  the  bones  and  "  odds 
and  ends"  of  the  roast,  with  the  usual  vegetables 
and  seasonings,  but  the  soup  will  be  better  if  a  little 
fresh  soup  meat,  or  perhaps  end  pieces  from  the 
steak  or  new  roast,  be  used  as  well.  Put  all  the 
meat  into  a  soup-kettle  together  with  a  sliced 
onion,  carrot,  and  a  small  portion  of  Russia  turnip, 
some  stalks  of  celery,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley, 
six  cloves,  six  peppercorns,  a  bay  leaf,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Barely  cover  with  cold  water 
and  allow  it  to  stand  awhile  before  putting  on  the 
stove.  Let  cook  slowly  for  four  or  five  hours. 
Strain  and  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  use  next 
day.  Remove  the  fat,  season  to  taste,  and  serve 
clear,  or  with  diced  vegetables  which  have  been 
first  cooked  in  water  and  added  to  the  soup  ten 
minutes  before  serving.  Do  not  serve  this  soup 
the  same  day  in  which  it  is  cooked,  for  it  will  have 
a  greasy  appearance  and  taste. 

Deviled  Marrow  on  Crackers 

When  the  marrow  is  not  wanted  in  the  soup,  it 
can  be  served  on  crisp  crackers  for  lunch,  and 
makes  a  nutritious  dish.  Scrape  the  marrow-bones, 
wash  them  well,  and  cover  top  and  bottom  with 
paste  made  of  flour  and  water.  Tie  in  clean  cheese- 
cloth, and  boil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Remove  cloth  and  paste,  and  take  marrow  out 
from  bones.  Season  highly  with  paprika.  Serve 
on  crisp  crackers. 

17 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

Beef  Croquettes  Made  from  Soup  Meat 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine.  Season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  celery  salt.  Add  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  if  desired.  To  two  cups  of  the  chopped 
meat  add  one  beaten  egg,  and  moisten  with  enough 
thick  tomato  sauce  (see  page  71)  to  shape  into  cro- 
quettes. Roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.  Serve  with  the  remainder  of  the  tomato 
sauce  re-heated  and  thinned. 

Savory  Meat 

Soup  meat,  i  lb.  Grated  onion,   §  tea- 
Stock,  I  cup  spoonful 

Celery     salt,     i     tea-  Salt,  |  teaspoonful 

spoonful  White  pepper,  J  tea- 
Summer     savory,     J  spoonful 

teaspoonful  Nutmeg 

Sweet     marjoram,     J  Paprika 

teaspoonful 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  removing  all  gristle.  Season, 
moisten  with  the  stock,  and  press  into  a  small 
bread-pan.  Put  into  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 
When  cold,  slice. 

By  the  long  process  of  soup-making,  flavor  has 
been  taken  from  the  meat,  but  it  still  has  food 
value.  It  should  be  highly  seasoned  to  make  it 
palatable. 

Beef  Scallop 

See  Lamb  Scallop,  p.  26. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO    DO   WITH   LEFT-OVER    LAMB 
AND  MUTTON 


Sliced  Lamb  with  Olive  Sauce 

Have  ready  two  dozen  medium-sized  olives  that 
have  been  cooked  in  boiling  water  thirty  minutes 
and  then  stoned. 

2     tablespoonfuls     of     ^  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
minced  onion  J  teaspoonful  of  pep- 

4     tablespoonfuls     of  per 

butter  2  cups  hot  stock 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 

Brown  the  onion  lightly  in  the  butter,  add  the 
flour  and  seasonings,  and  cook  until  bubbling, 
then  add  two  cups  of  stock — made  from  the  bones 
of  the  roast  and  odds  and  ends  of  meat — and  cook 
and  stir  until  thick  and  smooth.  Then  add  the 
olives.  Season  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  lamb  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Simmer 
gently  five  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon- juice.  Pour  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter and  garnish  with  hominy  balls  (see  page  133). 

Lamb,  Turkish  Style 

Brown  a  small  onion  and  one-third  cup  of  well- 
washed  rice  in  butter  or  beef  drippings.     Add  one 
23 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

cup  of  stewed  tomatoes,  one  cup  of  lamb  or  mut- 
ton cut  in  squares,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  minced 
carrot,  one  teaspoonful  of  horseradish,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Make  quite  moist  with  gravy  or 
hot  water.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  until  the 
rice  is  soft  and  the  water  absorbed.  If  the  mixt- 
ure should  become  too  dry,  add  more  wetting. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  triangles 
of  nicely  browned  toast.  This  dish  in  Ttirkey  is 
called  Pilau. 

Lamb  in  Ambush 

Mince  the  lamb  very  fine.  To  each  cup  of  meat 
allow  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  capers,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  onion-juice,  one-quarter  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  a  little  paprika.  Moisten  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  gravy  or  stock.  Butter  a  deep 
pan  or  mold.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides  one  inch 
deep  with  warm,  well  -  seasoned  mashed  potato. 
Fill  the  center  with  the  meat  mixture,  and  spread 
potato  over  the  top.  Cover  tightly  and  steam,  or 
set  in  pan  of  water  and  cook  in  oven  from  one-half 
to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn  out  carefully 
on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  tomato  sauce  (see  page 
71)  in  a  separate  dish.  This  dish  is  often  called 
Lamb  Chartreuse, 

Oriental  Stew 

Simmer  gently  together 

2  cups  of  cold  lamb  i  chopped  onion 

or  mutton  cut  in  2  small  cold  potatoes, 
cubes  sliced 

1  cup  of  water  i  cup  of  cooked  peas 

2  tablespoonfuls     of  or  cooked  string 

butter  beans  chopped 


LAMB    AND    MUTTON 


Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very  little  curry 
powder,  if  liked.  While  the  stew  is  heating,  boil 
one-half  cup  of  well-washed  rice.  When  tender, 
put  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  hollow  the  center,  and 
turn  in  the  stew.     Serve  at  once. 

Spanish  Stew 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  slice  two 
small  onions,  and  mix  with  two  cups  of  chopped 
meat,  not  fine.  The  meat  may  be  all  lamb  or  a 
mixture  of  lamb  and  beef.  Brown  all  together 
in  the  butter.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  four 
medium-sized  tomatoes,  one  tablespoonful  Chili 
sauce,  one  seeded  red  pepper,  cut  fine,  one  table- 
spoonful  salt,  and  two  cups  of  stock.  Cover  and 
let  simmer  until  well  blended  and  thickened.  Serve 
on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  radishes  and  parsley. 

Old  Homestead  Pie 

Cut  the  remnants  of  any  cold  boiled  mutton  into 
very  thin  slices,  seasoning  each  slice  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  paprika.  Arrange  them  in 
layers  in  a  suitable  baking-dish.  Heat  any  left- 
over caper  sauce,  and  if  necessary  add  enough 
fresh  sauce  to  well  cover  each  layer  of  meat.  Have 
ready  two  cups  of  well-seasoned,  hot  mashed 
potato  and  turnip,  using  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
mashed  potato  to  one-half  cup  of  mashed  turnip. 
Be  careful  to  have  them  well  seasoned  and  well 
beaten,  and  then  press  through  a  ricer  (or  coarse 
sieve),  letting  the  mixture  fall  lightly  over  the  top 
of  the  pie  as  a  cover.  Brush  the  top  with  egg  yolk 
beaten  lightly  with  a  little  water.  Brown  lightly 
in  the  oven.     Serve  currant  jelly  with  this  dish. 

as 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Croquettes 

2  cups  finely  chopped     i  cup  cooked  rice 

meat  i  tablespoonful  lemon- 

I  tablespoonful  chop-  juice 

ped  capers  Salt  and  paprika 

I  cup  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68) 

Mix  all  together  and  set  away  to  get  cold.  When 
ready  to  form,  take  up  by  full  tablespoonfuls  and 
shape  into  cylinders.  Roll  gently  in  finely  sifted 
white  bread-crumbs,  then  in  egg  (slightly  beaten 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water),  being  care- 
ful that  every  part  of  the  croquette  is  covered  with 
egg,  and  then  again  in  crumbs.  Put  in  a  frying- 
basket  and  brown  lightly  in  smoking-hot  fat.  They 
will  brown  very  quickly. 

»  Lamb  Scallop 

Stale  bread-crumbs         J  cup  fresh  or  stewed 
A  bit  of  onion  tomato,  or  a  little 

Gravy    thinned    with  lemon-juice 

hot  water  Butter 

Salt  and  pepper  Meat   cut    in    small 

pieces 

Into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  holding  about  a 
quart,  put  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  then  a  layer 
of  meat,  seasoning  and  adding  a  little  grated 
onion.  Repeat  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full.  Add 
tomatoes,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  or 
a  little  lemon- juice.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  crumbs. 
Pour  the  gravy,  thinned  with  hot  water,  into  the 
dish  until  it  can  just  be  seen.  Put  bits  of  butter 
over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Increase 
26 


LAMB    AND    MUTTON 


the  heat  to  brown  the  crumbs  on  top,  and  serve 
hot.     Beef  or  veal  may  be  used  instead  of  lamb. 

Lamb's  Liver  Hash 

Chop  fine  some  left-over  liver  and  heart  which 
have  been  steamed  or  sauted.  Add  nearly  twice  as 
much  seasoned  left-over  or  fresh  mashed  potatoes. 
Moisten  well  with  stock  or  gravy,  add  more  season- 
ing, put  into  pan  with  hot  bacon  fat,  and  saut6 
slowly  until  a  brown  crust  has  formed  under- 
neath. Fold  hash  over  in  pan,  turn  out  on 
platter,  and  dress  with  plenty  of  fresh  parsley. 
Lamb's  liver  is  excellent  and  inexpensive,  and 
should  be  more  generally  used. 

Patty-Pan  Pies 

Cut  any  remnants  of  baked  or  boiled  lamb  or 
mutton  in  small  pieces,  discarding  all  bone  and 
gristle.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
onion- juice  if  desired.  For  two  cups  of  such  meat 
allow  one  cup  of  any  left-over  gravy  diluted  with 
a  little  hot  water,  or  one  cup  of  good  stock  made 
from  the  bones  and  bits  of  meat,  flavored  with 
vegetables,  and  thickened  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Heat  meat  and  gravy  together.  Line 
patty-pans  with  good  plain  pastry,  rolled  rather 
thin.  Fill  with  the  warm  meat  and  cover  with 
pastry.  Bake  in  rather  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  pastry  is  cooked,  about  half  an  hour.  Each 
patty  makes  an  individual  portion,  and  can  be 
served  with  or  without  brown  sauce  (see  page  68). 

Plain  Pastry  for  Four  Patty  Pies 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of  pastry 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  baking- 
3  27 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

powder.  Into  this  chop  four  tablespoonftils  of  any- 
shortening  desired,  and  add  slowly  enough  ice- 
water  to  moisten,  about  six  tablespoonfuls.  The 
dough  should  be  very  stiff.  Roll  out  and  spread 
the  surface  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  fold 
over  and  roll  again.  It  is  well  to  let  it  stand  in 
a  cold  place  some  time  before  using.  Wrapped  in 
a  napkin  it  will  keep  several  days  in  the  ice-box. 

Panned  Lamb   (with  Oysters) 

I J  cups  lamb,   chop-     2  tablespoonfuls  but- 

ped  fine  ter 

6   oysters  Salt  and  pepper 

Gravy  or  stock 

Heat  oysters  with  butter.  When  they  curl  add 
meat  and  seasoning.  Moisten  with  gravy  or  stock. 
Cover  and  simmer  ten  minutes.     Serve  on  hot  toast. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT   TO    DO  WITH    LEFT-OVER   VEAL 
AND  PORK 


Blanket  of  Veal 

This  dish  may  be  prepared,  if  desired,  from  a 
mixture  of  cooked  and  uncooked  veal.  Discard  all 
gristle  and  hard  portions  of  any  roasted  veal.  Cut 
in  inch  squares.  To  one  cup  of  such  meat  allow 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  uncooked  breast  of 
veal.  Cover  the  raw  meat  with  hot — not  boiling 
— water.  Add  any  bones  from  the  roast,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  any  flavoring  vegetables  at  hand 
(such  as  carrots,  celery,  and  turnips,  chopped),  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Cover 
and  cook  slowly  until  veal  is  nearly  tender,  then 
add  the  cold  meat,  and  simmer  gently  ten  minutes 
longer.  Take  out  the  meat  and  strain  the  broth. 
There  should  be  two  cups;  if  not,  make  up  with 
boiling  water.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  add  the  hot 
broth.  When  thickened,  add  one  egg  yolk  beaten 
up  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 
Remove  from  the  fire  at  once,  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lemon-juice,  and  pour  over  the  hot  meat. 
33 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

One  cup  of  cooked  peas  may  be  added  to  the  sauce 
if  desired.  This  dish  is  often  called  Veau  d  la 
Blanquette. 

Veal  Scallop  with  Oysters 
To  every  cup  of  finely  chopped  veal  allow  twelve 
good-sized  oysters.  Season  the  meat  highly  with 
salt,  paprika,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice. 
Moisten  it  with  a  little  stock.  Arrange  in  layers 
in  a  baking-dish  beginning  with  the  veal,  and 
sprinkle  some  well  -  buttered  cracker  -  crumbs  be- 
tween each  layer  and  on  top.  Add  one-half  cup 
thin  cream  or  milk,  and  one-half  cup  of  strained 
oyster  liquor,  to  each  measure  of  veal.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Jellied  Veal 

When  ordering  a  roast  of  veal  have  some  bones 
sent  home  with  it.  Wash  these  well,  cover  with 
cold  water,  add  one  cup  of  diced  vegetables — car- 
rot, turnip,  celery,  onion,  and  one  bay  leaf — and 
let  simmer  for  three  or  four  hours.  Strain  the 
stock,  let  it  cool,  cover,  and  set  in  the  ice-box. 
This  will  keep  for  several  days.  When  ready  to 
use  skim  off  any  fat  on  top,  and  to  each  cup  of 
stock  add  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  lemon-juice,  and  a  very  little  paprika.  Cut  any 
remaining  veal  in  thin  slivers — there  should  be  an 
equal  quantity  of  meat  and  stock — and  simmer 
together  until  the  veal  is  moist  and  tender.  If  the 
meat  falls  short,  use  two  or  three  "  hard-boiled" 
eggs  cut  in  neat  slices  and  mixed  with  the  meat 
after  it  is  removed  from  the  fire.  Mold  in  a  bread- 
pan  and  serve  cold. 

34 


VEAL    AND    PORK 


Creamed  Veal  on  Hot  Biscuits 

Season  two  cups  of  chopped  veal  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  capers,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon-juice,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  slight  grating 
of  nutmeg,  if  desired.  Melt  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  stir  in  one-half  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  add  slowly  one- 
half  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  cook  until 
sauce  thickens.  Mix  one  egg  yolk  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  cold  water  and  add  to  sauce,  together  with 
the  seasoned  veal.  Remove  from  the  fire  as  soon 
as  meat  is  heated,  and  serve  on  hot  biscuits. 

Veal  and  Potato  Puff 

Season  two  cups  of  finely  chopped  veal  with 
salt,  paprika,  and  one  tablespoonful  catsup. 
Moisten  with  a  little  gravy  or  stock.  Have  ready 
two  cups  of  well  -  seasoned  mashed  potato,  add 
to  them  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  beat  until  very 
light  and  creamy.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  the  two  eggs.  Butter  a  baking-dish,  and  cover 
the  bottom  with  half  of  the  potato,  spread 
all  of  the  meat  on  top,  and  cover  with  the  rest  of 
the  potato.     Brown  in  hot  oven. 

Veal  in  Batter 

I  egg  Scant     J    cup    sifted 

4  tablespoonfuls  milk  flour 

I  tablespoonful  olive     if  cups  chopped  veal 

or  any  good  salad     J  teaspoonful  salt 

oil  A  little  white  pepper 

J  tablespoonful  lemon-juice 

To  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  the  egg  add  the  milk, 
oil,  seasoning,  flour,   and   lemon-juice.     Beat  the 
35 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

white  of  the  egg  stiff,  and  add  to  batter  when 
ready  to  use.  Stir  into  this  the  veal,  which  should 
not  be  chopped  fine.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  slight- 
ly smoking  fat,  and  fry  slowly  to  a  golden  brown. 
Drain  on  soft  paper  or  cheese-cloth.  These  fritters 
may  be  served  with  or  without  a  sauce.  Chicken 
may  be  used  instead  of  veal. 

Veal  Rolls 

Cut  the  veal  in  slices,  spread  each  one  with  the 
stuffing  left  from  the  roast,  or  with  bread-crumbs 
seasoned  and  moistened  with  butter,  roll  up  tight- 
ly and  tie.  Roll  with  flour,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  brown  slowly  in  hot  butter,  then  half  cover 
with  rich  milk  or  veal  stock  in  which  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  flour  has  been  blended,  simmer  ten  minutes. 
Remove  the  strings  and  serve  on  hot  toast. 

Croquettes    (with  Stock) 

2  cups  beef,  veal,  i  cup  stock 

chicken,  or  lobster  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon- 

a  tablespoonfuls  but  juice 

ter  Salt  and  pepper 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  Dash  of  cayenne 

Cook  flour  in  hot  butter,  add  stock  gradually,  and 
boil  up  well.  Season  meat  highly  with  salt,  pep- 
per, cayenne,  and  lemon-juice,  and  put  into  stock. 
When  almost  to  boiling-point,  remove  from  fire 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  Shape  into  balls.  If  too 
soft  to  handle  add  fine-sifted  bread-crumbs;  do 
not  add  flour  for  stiffening  croquettes.  Roll  in 
crumbs,  in  egg,  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  smok- 
ing-hot  fat  two  minutes. 

36 


VEAL    AND    PORK 


Veal  Loaf 

1  lb.  lean  cold  roast  veal     i  teaspoonful  salt 

i    lb.    cooked    chopped     ^  teaspoonful  mace 
bacon  {  teaspoonful  pepper 

2  pounded  crackers  Gravy 

I  well-beaten  egg  Dash  of  cayenne 

Put  the  meat  through  a  meat  grinder,  add  the 
other  ingredients,  moisten  with  left-over  gravy, 
and  season  more  highly  if  necessary.  Grease  a 
shallow  pan  with  bacon  fat,  put  in  loaf,  and  press 
into  shape,  adding  a  little  more  thin  gravy.  Bake 
half  an  hour,  or  until  brown  on  top. 

Quick  Veal-and-Sago  Soup 

I      lb.      lean      veal,     Soup  celery  and  pars- 
chopped  ley 
I  carrot  cut  in  pieces     2  tablespoonfuls  sago 
I  small  onion                    ij  cups  scalded  milk 
I  egg                                 Salt  and  pepper 

Cover  veal  with  cold  water,  add  carrot,  onion, 
celery,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  Heat  gradually 
and  boil  one  hour.  Strain.  Soak  sago  in  water 
half  an  hour,  strain,  add  to  soup,  and  cook  until 
sago  is  clear.  Add  milk  and  more  seasoning  if 
necessary.  Beat  egg,  place  in  tureen,  potur  soup 
over  it,  stirring  well. 

Veal  on  Toast 

Cut  cold  roast  veal  into  small  pieces.  Prepare 
slices  of  crisp,  dried  toast  and  place  on  a  platter 
in  the  oven.  Take  some  of  yesterday's  left-over 
veal  gravy,  thin  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  hot 
water,  and  pour  into  a  frying-pan.  Let  the  gravy 
37 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

boil.  Just  before  serving  add  the  cold  veal;  heat 
thoroughly,  but  do  not  boil.  Place  meat  on  the 
toast,  pour  gravy  around  it,  and  garnish  dish  with 
thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Veal  with  Clams 

2  cups  chopped  veal     i  tablespoonful  butter 

1  cup  chopped  clams      4  tablespoonfuls  clam- 
Salt  and  pepper  juice 

I  cup  well-seasoned  mashed  potato 

Mix  veal,  clams,  and  juice,  then  season.  Put 
mixture  in  buttered  ramekins.  Cover  with  mashed 
potato.  Dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Veal  Scallop 

See  Lamb  Scallop,  p.  26. 

Savory  Fresh  Pork 

2  cups  chopped  meat      2     tablespoonfuls    of 
2     tablespoonfuls  flour 

butter  I  small  onion 

I   cup  cooked    toma-     i  cup  of  gravy  or  meat 
toes  stock 

Salt,  and  red  pepper,  small,  and  chopped  very  fine 

Slice  the  onion  and  brown  it  delicately  in  the 
butter.  Then  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended.  Turn  in  the  tomatoes,  gravy,  and  meat. 
Add  the  seasoning  and  cook  until  well  heated. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter  with  baked  potatoes. 

Fresh  Pork  with  Baked  Apples 

Mince  any  remnants  of  roast  pork  to  make  two 
cupfuls.     Season  it  as  needed  with  salt  and  a  little 
38 


VEAL    AND    PORK 


pepper  and  moisten  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  gravy. 
Wash  half  a  dozen  medium-sized  greening  apples. 
Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end,  take  out  all  of  the 
core  and  enough  of  the  apple  part  to  form  a  neat 
cup.  Put  the  meat  in  these,  with  a*  small  piece 
of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Place  them  in  an  agate 
baking-pan,  add  a  very  little  water,  and  bake  until 
the  apples  are  soft. 

Fork  with  Fried  Apples 

Cut  cold  roast  pork  into  small  pieces.  Thin  the 
left-over  gravy  with  a  little  hot  water,  adding 
seasoning,  if  necessary.  Let  it  boil  for  a  few 
minutes  in  a  frying-pan.  Add  the  meat,  heat 
thoroughly,  but  do  not  allow  the  sauce  to  boil. 
Serve  with  apples  prepared  as  follows:  Core  three 
or  four  Baldwin  apples  without  removing  the  skin. 
Cut  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cook  in  hot 
bacon  fat  until  soft  and  well  browned.  Drain  on 
soft  paper.  Or  the  pork  may  be  sliced  and  served 
cold,  and  the  apples  used  as  a  border. 

A  Scallop  of  Roast  Pork  and  Cabbage 

2  cups  thinly  slivered     ij  cups  cooked  chop- 
pork  ped  cabbage 
I J  cups  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68) 

Season  pork  with  salt  and  pepper.  In  a  baking- 
dish  arrange  layers  of  pork,  cabbage,  and  white 
sauce.  Cover  with  a  few  well-buttered  cnmibs.  Heat 
in  oven  until  sauce  bubbles  through  the  crumbs. 

Mock  Chicken  Salad 

Cut  any  cold  fresh  pork  in  pieces  suitable  for 
salad.    To  two  cups  of  such  meat  add  three  table- 
39 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

spoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar  and  set  away  to  get  very 
cold.  When  ready  to  prepare  the  salad,  drain  off 
any  of  the  vinegar  remaining  and  add  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  crisp  celery  cut  small,  and  pour  over 
all  a  cooked  salad  dressing  (see  page  75).  Serve  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY     OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT    TO    DO   WITH    LEFT-OVER    HAM 
AND  BACON 


Baked  Ham  and  Eggs 

Butter  a  shallow  baking-dish  and  sprinkle  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  well-buttered  soft  bread-crumbs 
on  the  bottom.  Add  one  cup  of  cooked  ham 
chopped  and  one-quarter  cup  of  hot  milk.  Break 
on  top  the  number  of  eggs  desired.  Season  and 
sprinkle  with  a  few  fine  white  crumbs,  well 
buttered.  Bake  until  the  eggs  are  sufficiently 
cooked.  Garnish  with  a  little  finely  chopped 
water-cress,  if  at  hand,  and  serve  in  the  baking- 
dish. 

Ham  with  Macaroni 

Boil  a  scant  three-quarters  cup  of  broken  maca- 
roni in  plenty  of  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender 
— about  forty  minutes.  This  should  make  two 
cups  when  cooked.  Drain  and  rinse  well  under 
cold  water  so  it  will  not  be  pasty.  Add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Reheat  over  hot 
water,  adding  enough  cream  or  milk  to  moisten — 
about  one  tablespoonful.  When  well  heated  mix 
in  lightly  with  a  fork  one  cup  chopped  cooked  ham 
that  has  been  moistened  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
45 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

of  mustard  sauce  (see  page  75).  This  makes  a  good 
luncheon  dish,  and  can  be  prepared  with  two  cups 
of  any  cold  macaroni  and  cheese. 

Ham  Omelet 

Make  white  sauce  No.  i  A  (see  page  68),  and  cool 
slightly.  Chop  enough  cold  ham  to  make  four 
full  tablespoonfuls.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
stiff.  Beat  the  yolks  until  thick,  then  add  salt  and 
pepper  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  white  sauce. 
Cut  and  fold  into  this  mixture  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs. 

Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan, 
pour  the  omelet  into  this,  and  cook  over  a  slow 
fire  until  it  has  puffed  up  and  is  slightly  browned 
underneath.  Sprinkle  the  ham  over  the  surface 
and  place  in  the  oven  a  moment  to  "set"  the  top 
of  the  omelet.  Do  not  leave  it,  or  it  will  become 
too  dry.  Fold  over,  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter, 
and  serve  immediately  with  the  remainder  of  the 
white  sauce  poured  around  it.  Parsley  may  be 
added,  either  as  a  garnish  or  chopped  and  mixed 
with  the  white  sauce. 

Creamed  Ham    (in  Chafing-dish) 

Remove  yolks  from  three  or  four  hard-cooked 
eggs,  and  cut  the  whites  in  rings.  Have  ready 
minced  seasoned  ham,  prepared  by  chopping  fine 
or  putting  through  meat  grinder  any  small  left- 
over pieces.  Make  in  the  chafing-dish  white  sauce 
No.  2,  put  ham  in,  and  heat  through.  (Do  not 
let  boil  while  making  these  additions.)  Add 
whites  of  eggs,  season  highly,  grate  yolks  over  top, 
ftn4  serve  from  dish. 

40 


HAM    AND    BACON 


Ham  Cakes 

Mix  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cooked  ham  chopped 
fine  with  two  cups  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes. 
Brown  in  a  little  hot  bacon  fat. 

Ham  Sandwich  Filling 

Chop  very  fine  the  meat  from  the  shank  of 
boiled  ham.  Mix  with  enough  boiled  salad  dress- 
ing (see  page  75)  to  make  thick  paste.  Pack  in 
glass  jar.  This  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  for  a  long 
time. 

Poached  Egg  on  Yankee  Toast 

While  the  eggs  are  poaching,  carefully  brown 
some  neatly  trimmed  slices  of  bread  in  a  little 
bacon  fat.  Crush  a  slice  of  cold,  crisp  bacon,  and 
sprinkle  a  very  little  on  each  slice  of  toast,  and 
serve  the  egg  on  top.  Shred  a  leaf  or  two  of  crisp 
lettuce  very  fine  and  garnish  the  top  of  each  egg. 

Liver-and-Bacon  Hash 

Chop  any  cold  cooked  liver,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Crush  a  few  slices  of  cold,  crisp 
bacon  and  add  to  it.  To  every  cup  of  liver  allow 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  rice,  or  any  coarse 
cereal,  and  mix  lightly  together.  Melt  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  or  drippings  in  a  frying-pan, 
add  one-quarter  cup  of  tomatoes,  and  tiim  in  the 
meat  mixture.  Cover  and  simmer  slowly  until 
well  heated.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish 
with  nicely  browned  potato  cakes. 

Minced  Liver 

To  each  cup  of  cold,  minced  liver,  add  one  table- 
spoonfiil  of  chopped  onion  browned  in  butter,  and 
47 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

season  with  salt  and  a  little  paprika.  Turn  into 
an  agate  frying-pan  with  a  little  water.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  flour  and  add  one-quarter  cup  of  vine- 
gar.    Simmer  until  well  heated. 

Sausage-and-Rice  Cakes 

To  one  cup  of  cooked  rice — warm  or  cold — add 
one  egg  unbeaten  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
fried  sausage.  Mix  well  together  and  form  into 
flat  cakes.  If  the  mixture  is  very  soft,  add  a  little 
more  rice.  Brown  lightly  in  butter  or  drippings, 
being  careful  to  have  the  fat  well  heated  before 
adding  the  cakes.  This  amount  will  make  six 
mediimi-sized  ones. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN     RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER  POULTRY 


Chicken  Salad 

Cut  the  cold  chicken  from  the  bones,  using  all 
the  small  bits.  Have  pieces  uniform  in  size,  and 
in  shape  of  small  cubes.  Scrape  celery  and  let 
stand  several  hours  in  ice-water,  then  dry  in  a 
clean  napkin.  Use  half  as  much  celery  as  chicken, 
and  cut  into  pieces  half  the  size.  Make  a  French 
dressing  of 

I  tablespoofiful  lemon-    \  teaspoonful  salt 

juice  I    teaspoonful    white 

3  tablespoonfuls  oil  pepper 

Pour  this  over  the  chicken  and  celery,  mix  well, 
and  put  into  ice-box  to  stand  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  the  liquid  from  some  canned  sweet  red  pep- 
pers, and  chop  with  stoned  olives.  Mix  with  the 
salad,  and  just  before  it  is  served  pour  mayonnaise 
dressing  over  it  (see  page  74),  tossing  it  over  and 
over  with  a  silver  fork  until  each  piece  is  coated 
with  the  dressing.  Put  into  a  salad  bowl,  or  on  in- 
dividual plates,  and  garnish  with  small  tender  ends 
and  leaves  of  the  celery,  whole  olives,  and  a  few 
tmy  cucumber  pickles.  Serve  very  cold. 
53 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 


Creamed  Chicken 

Make  a  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68).  When 
hot  put  into  it  small  pieces  of  chicken,  and  half  as 
much  diced  cooked  sweetbreads  as  there  is  chicken. 
Heat  through  quickly,  not  allowing  the  mixture  to 
boil.  Just  before  taking  up  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  well- washed  parsley,  chopped  fine.  Serve  on  a 
hot  platter  in  a  border  of  green  peas. 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Timbale  with  or  without 
Mushroom  Sauce 

When  no  more  slices  can  be  cut  from  a  cooked 
chicken  or  turkey,  take  the  bits  of  meat  near  the 
bones,  chop  fine,  and  to  two  cups  of  such  meat 
allow  one  cup  of  soft,  white  bread-crumbs  and  one- 
half  cup  of  hot  milk.  Mix  the  crumbs  and  hot 
milk  together,  then  add  the  chopped  meat  and 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Season  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 
Beat  the  whites  slightly — they  must  not  be  frothy 
— and  mix  them  well  in.  Turn  the  mixture  into 
a  buttered  pan  or  mold,  cover  with  a  greased 
paper,  and  steam;  or  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
cook  in  moderate  oven  about  one  hour.  Carefully 
unmold  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  with  or  with- 
out mushroom  sauce  (see  page  69). 

Hotel  Club  Sandwiches 

Cut  the  bread  about  one-half  inch  in  thickness. 
Toast  it  a  delicate  brown,  and  butter  it  slightly. 
Lay  thin  slices  of  chicken  on  the  toast,  then  a  crisp 
leaf  of  lettuce,  a  few  strips  of  very  thin  broiled 
bacon,  and  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing  (see  page 
54 


POULTRY 


74) .    Cover  with  another  slice  of  toast,  and  serve  at 
once. 

A  Scallop  of  Chicken  with  Celery 

Cook  one  cup  of  celery,  cut  in  inch  pieces,  in 
boiling  slightly  salted  water,  until  tender.  Save 
the  water  to  make  sauce.  There  should  be  one 
cup.  Slice  thin  two  cups  of  cold  chicken,  discard- 
ing all  skin,  sea'^on  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
moisten  with  a  little  left-over  gravy.  Melt  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  and  when  bubbling  add  slowly  one  cup  of 
celery  water,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.  When  thick- 
ened and  smooth,  stir  in  the  cooked  celery.  Put 
a  few  buttered  crumbs  in  a  baking-dish  and  ar- 
range the  chicken  and  sauce  in  alternate  layers. 
Cover  with  well-buttered  crumbs.  Brown  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

To  be  creamy  inside  these  must  be  made  very 
soft,  then  the  mixture  set  away  to  cool  and  stiffen 
before  it  is  shaped  into  croquettes.  Make  a  white 
sauce  No.  4  (see  page  68).  Chop  the  chicken  fine 
and  season — with  salt,  pepper,  grated  lemon  rind, 
a  few  drops  of  onion-juice,  grating  of  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  mace.  Put  into  the  hot  sauce  all  the 
seasoned  chicken  it  will  take  up,  about  two  cups 
to  one  of  sauce.  Set  away  to  cool.  Then  shape 
into  croquettes,  roll  in  fine  bread-crumbs,  then  in 
egg  (which  has  been  slightly  beaten  together  with 
one  tablespoonfiil  of  cold  water),  being  careful  to 
have  every  part  covered  with  egg,  then  in  crumbs 

again.    Fry  in  gmoking  deep  fat,  and  serve  with 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

white  sauce  No.   2   (see  page  68).     Veal  or  fresh 
pork  may  be  used  instead  of  chicken. 

Creamed  Chicken  with  Asparagus  Tips 

Any  kind  of  cooked  chicken  can  be  used  for  this. 
Discard  all  skin  and  hard  portions.  Cut  the  meat 
in  half-inch  pieces.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  to  one  cup  of  meat. 
Add  one -half  cup  of  chicken  stock — made  from 
bones,  wing  ends,  and  the  like,  and  simmer  gently 
together  ten  minutes,  then  add  one-half  cup  of 
canned  or  cooked  asparagus  tips  to  each  cup  of 
chicken,  and  let  heat.  Make  half  a  cup  of  whi.te 
sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68).  When  the  sauce  is 
cooked,  atir  in  one  egg  yolk  beaten  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  water,  and  remove  from  the  fire  at 
once.  Add  this  to  the  hot  chicken  and  serve  im- 
mediately. Garnish  the  platter  with  triangles  of 
well-browned  toast. 

Minced  Chicken  and  Ham  in  Tomato  Cases 

6  tomatoes  2     tablespoonfuls     of 

1  cup  minced  chicken  melted  butter 

i  cup  minced  ham  |  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
f    cup    fresh    bread-  per 

crumbs  |  teaspoonful  of  mus- 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  tard 

Select  uniform  tomatoes  of  medium  size.  Cut 
a  slice  from  the  stem  end  and  carefully  remove 
the  pulp  with  a  spoon.  Mix  all  ingredients  well 
together  with  the  tomato  pulp.  Season  the  inside 
of  the  tomato  cases  with  salt  and  a  very  little 
sugar,  and  fill  them  with  the  mixture.  Put  a  piece 
of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Bake  in  an  agate  pan 
c6 


POULTRY 


in  a  hot  oven  about  fifteen  minutes.     The  cases 
should  be  cooked  until  tender,  but  not  broken. 

Chicken    Souffle 

Season  one  cup  of  white  sauce  No.  3  (see  page  68) 
with  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  and  onion.  Add  one 
cup  of  chopped  chicken,  or  a  mixture  of  veal  and 
chicken,  or  chicken  and  a  little  tender  ham.  While 
hot  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  or  three,  if 
eggs  are  plentifvil.  Let  it  cool,  then  cut  and  fold 
into  the  mixture  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Put  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  at  once. 

Chicken  Hash 

I J  cups  cold  chopped     }  cup  boiled  potatoes 
chicken  i  to  |  cup  chicken  gravy 

Cut  the  potatoes  in  small  pieces.  Mix  together, 
season  highly,  and  moisten  with  the  chicken  gravy. 
Butter  some  ramekins  or  small  bowls,  put  in  the 
mixture,  covering  the  top  .vith  a  very  thin  layer  of 
fine  buttered  crumbs.  Sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of 
milk  over  the  crumbs,  and  on  the  top  of  each  rame- 
kin lay  a  slice  of  raw  tomato.  A  bit  of  butter  on 
the  tomato  helps  to  brown  it.  Bake  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  The  tomato  should 
be  soft  and  the  crumbs  well  browned. 

Chicken  Tamale  Dressing 

I  cup  corn-meal  i  cup  cooked  chicken, 
I  tablespoonful  butter  chopped  fine 

or  bacon  fat  i  cup  stoned  olives 

I  tablespoonful  onion-  4     tablespoonfuls 

juice  catsup 

I  cup  tomatoes  Cayenne  pepper 

3  tablespoonfub  :  1  Salt 

57 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Scald  the  corn-meal  with  about  one  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  add  the  other  ingredients  in  the  order 
given.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  half  an 
hour. 

This  is  a  favorite  California  dish. 

Chicken  Pie  (from  Cooked  Chicken) 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  drumsticks,  disjoint  and 
use  the  wings,  the  second  joints,  neck,  and  any 
other  pieces.  The  presence  of  these  small  bones 
adds  flavor  to  the  pie.  Put  into  a  suitable  baking- 
dish,  season  the  chicken  well,  and  pour  over  it  one 
and  one-third  cups  of  thickened  gravy,  which  can 
be  made  from  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was 
cooked.     Cover  with  a  pastry  crust  made  of 

I  cup  flour  J  cup  ice-water 

J  cup  shortening,  part  i  teaspoonful  salt 

chicken  and  part  J  teaspoonful  baking- 
beef  fat  powder 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking-powder  together. 
Chop  in  the  fat,  moisten  with  ice-water,  and  roll 
out.  Put  bits  of  butter  over  the  crust,  using  a 
tablespoonful,  sprinkle  with  a  little  flour,  and  roll 
up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Let  stand  in  the  ice-box  until 
ready  to  use  for  the  pie.  When  rolling  out  the 
crust,  make  several  slits  in  it  that  the  steam  may 
escape.  It  is  considered  an  advantage  to  have  a 
cup  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish  to  collect  the  gravy. 

Boneless  Birds 

Cut  into  small  pieces  cold  roast  veal,  chicken, 
or   any  left-over   meat.     Season   highly.     Roll   a 
58 


POULTRY 


heaping  tablespoonful  of  the  cut  meat  in  a  slice  of 
bacon,  pinning  the  bacon  together  with  a  slender 
wooden  toothpick.  Bake  these  on  a  tin  in  a  hot 
oven  about  fifteen  minutes,  basting  and  turning 
the  "birds."  Serve  hot  on  a  garnished  platter. 
A  very  good  luncheon  dish.  They  should  be  as 
large  as  a  croquette  when  served. 

Victoria  Meat  (from  Chiclcen  or  Veal) 

3  teaspoonfuls  butter  i  teaspoonful  salt 

3  teaspoonfuls  flour  Paprika 
2  slices  onion  Bay  leaf 

4  mushrooms  §  cup  tomato-juice 

I  cup  stock  I J  cups  meat,  cut  in 
I  cup  drained  peas  small  cubes 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour,  salt,  paprika,  bay  leaf 
and  onion;  add  stock  and  tomato- juice  gradually, 
stirring  constantly.  When  slightly  thickened  add 
mushrooms  cut  in  pieces,  meat,  and  peas.  Reheat 
on  stove  and  serve  in  croustades.  This  dish  re- 
quires good  stock. 

Ghicken-and-Rice  Souffle-scallop 

I  cup  chicken  Gravy 

J  cup  boiled  rice  i    egg   white,    beaten 
i  cup  white  sauce  No.  very  light 

I   (see  page  67)  Bread-crumbs 

I  egg  yolk,  beaten  Bits  of  butter 

Salt  and  paprika 

Mix  chicken,  rice,  gravy,  seasoning,  and  yolk 
of  egg.  Make  white  sauce ;  while  hot  add  chicken 
mixture.  Cool  slightly,  fold  in  white  of  egg,  put 
into  buttered  baking-dish,  cover  with  bread- 
crumbs and  bits  of  butter.  Bake  half  an  hour. 
5  59 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup  (West  Indian) 
Chicken     stock,     sea-     3  tomatoes 

soned  i  carrot 

6  or  8  okras  sliced  thin     2  ears  of  corn 
i  onion  cut  in  pieces     Pieces    of    cooked 
2  teaspoonfuls  butter  chicken 

Cook  carrot  sliced  in  straws  in  small  amount  of 
water,  letting  the  water  boil  down.  Simmer  to- 
gether (covered)  okras,  onion,  and  butter  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  tomatoes  cut  in  pieces,  and  cook 
until  soft,  then  add  the  cooked  carrot  and  carrot 
liquid.  Put  these  vegetables  into  the  stock  (of 
which  there  should  be  about  one  and  a  half  quarts), 
and  cook  together  until  all  are  tender.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  serving  put  in  corn,  which  has  been 
scored  and  scraped  from  cob.  Finally  add  chicken. 
Heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  serve. 

Cream  of  Rice  and  Chicken  Soup 

Chicken  bones  should  be  covered  with  three  pints 
cold  water.  Let  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
simmer  until  stock  is  reduced  to  a  pint.  Melt 
one  tablespoonftd  butter;  when  bubbling  add  one 
tablespoonful  flour,  one  salt-spoonful  salt,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  cayenne.  Pour  in  stock  gradually, 
let  boil  up,  add  one-fourth  (or  one- third)  cup 
cooked  rice  and  a  little  of  the  thick  rice  water  in 
which  it  was  cooked,  if  this  has  been  saved.  When 
well  heated  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  and  the  grated 
yolk  of  one  hard-cooked  egg. 

Chicken  Custard 

When  boiling  a  fowl  for  salad  or  other  purposes 
take  a  pint  of  the  broth.     Season  as  needed  with 
60 


POULTRY 


salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Heat  and  pour  very 
slowly  over  two  eggs  that  have  been  slightly  beaten. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  mixture  thickens. 
Pour  into  small  cups  that  have  been  rinsed  with 
cold  water  and  set  away  to  chill.  This  makes  a 
good  relish  for  an  invalid. 

Duckling  Stew 

Bones  and  meat   left  4   small   boiled   pota- 
from   a    pair   of  toes  cut  in  cubes 

roast   ducklings  Few  stoned  olives 

3  small  onions  Gravy 

3  or  4  small  carrots  cut  Flour 

in  slices  or  cubes  Seasonings 

Cut  the  carcasses  of  ducks  into  suitable  pieces. 
Melt  in  stew-pan  some  of  fat  skimmed  from  left- 
over gravy,  add  flour,  and  when  hot  put  in  the 
ducks  and  heat  through  thoroughly.  Gradually  add 
hot  water  and  gizzard  gravy  cooked  the  day  before. 
When  sufficient  water  has  been  added  for  stock, 
put  in  onions,  carrots,  a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper  and  dash  of  cayenne.  Sim- 
mer for  one  or  more  hours,  uncovering  stew  oc- 
casionally to  turn  pieces  in  stock.  Add  gravy 
gradually,  then  the  olives,  and  twenty  minutes 
before  serving,  the  potatoes.  Serve  with  currant 
jelly. 

Chicken  in  Batter 

See  Veal  in  Batter,  page  35. 

Ghicken-Liver  Sandwiches 

See  page  231. 


61 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


V 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


SAUCES 


Most  made-over  dishes  are  dependent  upon  some 
kind  of  a  sauce  to  make  them  acceptable;  it  is 
therefore  quite  essential  that  the  cook  be  familiar 
with  the  simple  foundation  sauces.  This  knowl- 
edge gained,  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  prepare  any 
of  the  more  elaborate  ones. 

A  good  sauce  is  always  perfectly  smooth  and 
properly  flavored.  The  smoothness  is  secured  by 
drawing  the  saucepan  from  the  high  heat  and  add- 
ing the  liquid  slowly  to  the  blended  flour  and  fat, 
beating  and  stirring  constantly  until  the  sauce 
thickens.  The  flavoring  is  best  secured  by  utiliz- 
ing all  odd  bits  of  meat,  fish,  bones,  and  vegetables 
to  make  savory  stock,  or  by  cooking  a  few  chopped 
vegetables  carefully  in  the  fat  and  removing  them 
before  the  flour  is  added. 

The  use  of  potato  flour  for  sauces,  in  the  same 
proportions  as  wheat  flour,  is  recommended,  as  it 
gives  excellent  results  with  much  less  cooking. 

All  measures  of  butter  should  be  level. 

White  Sauce  No.  1  (for  Omelets,  Cream  Soups, 
Toast) 

I  tablespoonful  butter     i  teaspoonful  salt 
I  .tablespoonful  flour       i  teaspoonful  whit^ 
I  cup  milk  pepper 

67 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

White  Sauce  No.  1  A  (for  Scalloped  Dishes  and 
Omelets) 

I J  tablespoonf  uls  but-     i  teaspoonf  ul  salt 

ter  J  teaspoonf  ul  white 

I J  tablespoonfuls  flour  pepper 

I  cup  milk 

White  Sauce  No.  2  (for  Creamed  Meats,  Fish, 
Vegetables,  Toast) 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-     |  teaspoonful  salt 
ter  I  teaspoonful  white 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour  pepper 

I  cup  milk 

White  Sauce  No.  3  (for  Souffles) 

3  tablespoonfuls  but-     ^  teaspoonful  salt 

ter  i  teaspoonful  white 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  pepper 

I  cup  milk 

White  Sauce  No.  4  (for  Croquettes) 

4  tablespoonfuls  but-     I  teaspoonful  salt 

ter  ^  teaspoonful    white 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour  pepper 

I  cup  milk 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour  and  seasoning, 
and  cook  slowly  without  browning  until  the  mix- 
ture bubbles.  Remove  from  the  high  heat,  add 
the  milk  gradually,  beating  and  stirring  constantly 
until  the  sauce  thickens. 

Vegetable  Sauce 

This  may  be  made  from  either  celery,  asparagus, 
cauliflower,  green  peas  or  mushrooms.     One-half 
68 


SAUCES 


cup  of  any  one  of  these  vegetables  may  be  added 
to  one  cup  of  white  sauce  No.  2.  Serve  with 
chicken,  meat,  or  fish  croquettes. 

Mushroom  Sauce 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  when  bubbling  stir  in  slowly 
one  cup  of  rich  milk,  beating  constantly  until  the 
sauce  thickens.  Season  with  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  a  little 
celery  salt.  Add  one-half  can  of  chopped  mush- 
rooms. 

Egg  Sauce 

Place  two  eggs  in  rapidly  boiling  water,  cover 
tightly,  remove  to  cooler  part  of  stove,  and  let 
stand  six  minutes.  The  whites  should  be  solid 
and  yolks  soft.  Beat  in  the  soft  yolks  and  add 
the  chopped  whites  to  one  cup  of  white  sauce  No.  2. 
Just  before  serving  add  one  teaspoonful  chopped 
parsley.     Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Cheese  Sauce 

Add  one-half  cup  of  grated  cheese  to  one  cup 
of  white  sauce  No.  2.  Use  paprika  instead  of 
pepper  in  making  the  sauce. 

Poulette  Sauce 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-  i  teaspoonful  salt 

ter  i  teaspoonful  white 
2  tablespoonfuls  flour  pepper 

i  cup  sweet  cream  i  egg  yolk 

I  cup  white  stock  A  little  nutmeg 

I  tablespoonful  lemon-juice 

69 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings ;  when  bub- 
bling stir  in  white  stock.  Make  the  white  stock 
from  any  bones  or  odd  bits  of  chicken  or  veal  by- 
covering  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  chopped  celery 
or  carrot  and  one  bay  leaf,  simmer  slowly  for  two 
hours,  then  strain.  When  thickened,  add  slowly 
the  beaten  yolk,  cream,  and  nutmeg.  Heat  all  to- 
gether, but  do  not  boil.  Just  before  serving  add 
the  lemon-juice  carefully.  Especially  acceptable 
with  warmed-over  chicken  or  veal. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

4  tablespoonfuls  but-     }  teaspoonful  salt 

ter  i  teaspoonful  white 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour  pepper 

I  cup  water 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  butter,  add  flour 
and  seasoning,  and  cook  until  mixture  bubbles. 
Add  the  water  slowly,  beat  and  stir  until  sauce 
thickens.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  in  the  rest  of 
the  butter  slowly.  A  few  chopped  cucumber 
pickles  added  to  this  sauce  makes  it  appetizing 
with  warmed-over  fish. 

Caper  Sauce 

To  one  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  capers. 

Brown  Sauce 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-     i  cup  brown  stock 

ter  J  teaspoonful  salt 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour     i  teaspoonful  pepper 

A  small  slice  of  onion 

Melt  butter,   put  in  onion,  and  when   slightly 
browned,  the  flour.     Cook  together  until  a  little 
70 


SAUCES 


darker  in  color.  Pour  in  stock  gradually,  as  in 
directions  given  for  adding  milk  to  white  sauces 
(see  page  68).     Let  boil  one  minute  and  strain. 

Note:  A  few  drops  of  kitchen  bouquet  will  darken 
sauces  and  gravies  when  the  butter  and  flour  have 
not  been  sufficiently  browned  at  first. 

Olive  Sauce 

Drain,  rinse  in  cold  water  and  dry  eight  medium- 
sized  olives.  Chop  them  fine  and  add  to  the  above 
brown  sauce  just  before  serving. 

Savory  Tomato  Sauce  (for  Chops  and  Fish) 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-     J  teaspoonful  salt 

ter  2  sprigs  parsley 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour     i  slice  of  onion 
6  peppercorns  3  large  tomatoes 

6  cloves  A  bit  of  bay  leaf 

Scald,  peel,  and  cut  tomatoes  in  pieces.  Put  with 
them  a  tablespoonful  of  water  and  stew  until  soft 
enough  to  measure.  To  one  and  a  half  cups  (if 
tomato  has  boiled  down  to  less,  add  thin  stock  or 
hot  water  to  make  up  deficiency)  add  the  spice 
and  seasoning.  Boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes. 
Strain  and  add  gradually  to  flour  and  butter  cooked 
together.     Boil  up  one  minute  and  serve. 

Mock  Bisque  Sauce — with  Cheese 

I  lb.  tomatoes  (3  me-      li  tablespoonfuls  but- 

dium-sized)  ter 

\  cup  soup  celery  2  tablespoonfuls  flour 

\  teaspoonful  salt  J  cup  scalded  milk 

I  tablespoonful  white     i  or  2  tablespoonfuls 

pepper  dry   American 

cheese  (grate4) 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Wash  celery  and  tomatoes  well,  put  on  to  cook 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  water  and  boil  slowly 
fifteen  minutes.  Put  through  a  strainer  fine 
enough  to  hold  back  the  seeds.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  and,  when  well 
blended,  the  tomato,  of  which  there  should  be 
half  a  cup.  Let  boil  up  well,  remove  from  heat, 
and  slowly  stir  in  the  hot  milk.  Keep  the  sauce 
hot,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  after  adding 
milk.  Stir  into  it  while  on  the  stove  the  grated 
cheese.  When  this  is  melted  the  sauce  is  ready 
for  the  table.  A  good  sauce  for  macaroni  or 
spaghetti,  plain  boiled  rice  served  as  a  vegetable, 
or  for  rice  croquettes. 

Hollandaise  Sauce 

J  cup  butter  4  egg  yolks 

6  tablespoonfuls  boil-     i  tablespoonful  lemon- 
ing water  juice  or  vinegar 
Salt  and  cayenne 

Cream  the  butter,  add  egg  yolks,  and  stir 
vigorously.  Then  add  lemon-juice,  seasoning,  and 
water.  Beat  five  minutes  with  Dover  egg  beater. 
Cook  over  hot  water,  and  continue  to  stir  until 
thickened. 

Gold  Sauces  and  Dressings 

A  good  oil  should  be  used  in  making  salad  dress- 
ings, but  it  is  not  necessary  to  pay  the  highest 
price  for  it.  An  excellent  quality  of  olive  oil  may 
be  purchased  at  some  of  the  small  Italian  shops 
for  a  reasonable  amount.  This  low  price  is  made 
possible  since  it  is  their  own  importation. 

73 


SAUCES 


There  is  also  now  on  the  market  a  good  domestic 
oil  prepared  from  cotton  seed.  It  is  largely  used 
instead  of  the  imported  oil,  and  an  excellent 
mayonnaise  can  be  made  from  it. 

French  Dressing    No.  1 

1  tablespoonful  vine-     J  teaspoonful  salt 

gar  White  pepper 

3  tablespoonfuls  oil 

This  is  the  usual  proportion  of  oil  and  vinegar, 
but  an  equal  quantity  of  each  may  be  used  if  de- 
sired, or  more  oil.* 

To  the  seasoning  in  a  bowl  add  the  oil  and  vine- 
gar, and  beat  with  Dover  beater  or  fork  until  it 
thickens  slightly.  Use  at  once.  When  made  at 
the  table  the  dressing  will  thicken  more  quickly 
if  a  bit  of  ice  is  put  in  the  bowl  with  the  other 
ingredients.     Remove  ice  when  dressing  is  made. 

French  Dressing  No.  2 

2  tablespoonfuls  oil  i  tablespoonful  beaten 
2  tablespoonfuls  vine-  egg 

gar  I  teaspoonful  salt 

A  little  pepper 

Put  all  together  into  a  bowl  and  beat  with  a 
Dover  egg  beater.  Pour  over  the  salad  just  be- 
fore it  is  sent  to  the  table. 


iln  France  they  say  to  add  the  vinegar  to  salad  dressing  in 
the  time  one  can  say  very  quickly,  Ners(a,  French  railway  station), 
but  the  oil  is  poured  in  while  one  is  saying,  very  slowly,  Saint — 
Jean — de — Maurienne. 

73 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

i  teaspoonful  pow-  Yolk  of  i  raw  egg 

dered  sugar  i  to  §  cup  salad  oil 

i  teaspoonful  dry     2  t  abl  es  poonf  uls 
mustard  lemon-juice 

i  teaspoonful  salt 

A  very  little  cayenne  pepper 

Put  all  the  dry  ingredients  into  a  bowl.  Mix 
and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Beat  all  together  with 
a  silver  fork  until  thickened,  then  add  the  lemon- 
juice  little  by  little,  beating  it  in.  Then  put  in  the 
oil  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  beating  well  with  a 
small  Dover  egg  beater  between  each  addition  of 
oil.     Oil  and  egg  should  be  very  cold. 

This  dressing  may  be  made  thicker  by  using  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  oil  instead  of  one-half.  Two 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick,  sweet  cream  may  be  stirred 
into  it  as  an  addition. 

Sauce  Tartare 

This  sauce  is  made  like  the  above  dressing,  with 
the  addition  of  chopped  capers,  olives,  pickles,  and 
parsley.     Omit  the  cream. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  (for  Steak  and  Broiled  Fish) 

3  tablespoonfuls  but-     i    teaspoonful  lemon- 
ter  juice 

I  full  teaspoonful  finely  chopped  parsley 

Cream  the  butter  well,  gradually  beat  in  the 
lemon-juice,  and  finally  add  the  chopped  parsley. 
Spread  over  the  hot  steak  or  fish  just  before 
serving. 

74 


SAUCES 


Cooked  Salad  Dressing 

3  ^SS    yolks,    well  3  tablespoonfuls  boil- 
beaten  ing  vinegar 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-  i  teaspoonful  sugar 

ter  Cream  or  unsweetened 

1 1  teaspoonfuls  mus-  condensed  milk 

tard  J  teaspoonful  salt 

Add  the  boiling  vinegar  slowly  to  the  eggs.  Cook 
over  hot  water  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly. 
Mix  mustard,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  add.  Beat  in 
the  butter.  This  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  for  a 
long  time.  When  ready  to  use  add  an  equal  bulk 
of  sweet  or  sour  cream,  or  unsweetened  condensed 
milk. 

Mustard  Sauce 

Brown  lightly  together  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Add 
slowly  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  hot  water.  Beat  well. 
When  thick  and  smooth,  stir  in  half  a  tablespoon- 
ful lemon  juice,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  and  one 
scant  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard.  Then  beat 
in  slowly  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing  (for  Vegetable  Salads) 

Mash  one  hard-cooked  egg  yolk  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  butter  until  very  smooth  and  creamy. 
Season  with  salt,  paprika,  a  little  mustard,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  in  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream,  or  any  unsweetened 
condensed  milk  that  may  have  soured. 
6 


75 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER  FISH 


Fish,  like  meat,  is  particularly  attractive  to  flies, 
therefore  any  cooked  remnants  should  be  carefully 
screened  while  cooling,  and  never  placed  in  con- 
tact with  butter  or  milk  in  the  ice-box.  It  should 
be  reheated  within  twenty-four  hours  of  the  first 
cooking.  Like  tender  meat,  the  fiber  of  fish  is 
hardened  by  continuous  high  heat,  therefore  great 
care  should  be  taken  in  reheating  it. 

Boiled  Fish  in  Potato  Border 

2    cups    cooked    fish,        hard  cooked  eggs 
flaked  cup    drawn   butter 

2    cups    hot    or    cold  sauce     (see    page 

mashed  potato  70) 

I  tablespoonful  minced  parsley 

Press  the  two  cups  of  well-seasoned  mashed 
potato  through  a  ricer,  letting  it  fall  lightly  around 
the  edge  of  a  flat  baking-platter  to  form  a  border. 
In  the  center  of  the  dish  put  alternate  layers 
of  fish,  sliced  eggs,  and  sauce,  sprinkling  each 
layer  with  a  very  little  minced  parsley.  Place  in 
a  hot  oven  until  sauce  bubbles.  Serve  in  the 
baking-platter. 

81 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Spiced  Fish  with  White  Sauce 

Season  highly  any  left-over  boiled  white  fish 
with  one  of  the  following,  or  a  combination: 
tomato  catsup,  anchovy,  Worcestershire,  and  a 
little  paprika.  Make  enough  white  sauce  No.  3 
(see  page  68)  to  cover  the  fish,  adding  two  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks  to  each  cup  of  sauce.  Flake  the 
fish,  pour  the  sauce  over  and  heat  in  oven. 

Clam  Broth 

When  frying  or  making  a  scallop  of  soft  clams 
it  is  unwise  to  put  in  the  long,  hard  neck  portions, 
for  they  are  not  eaten.  Use  these  for  broth.  Put 
them  through  a  meat  chopper,  with  a  few  whole 
clams,  add  a  little  water,  salt  as  needed,  and  a  little 
pepper.  Simmer  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  strain, 
and  serve  hot  or  cold.     This  is  an  excellent  tonic. 

Fish  Cocktail 

Take  a  small  piece  of  cold  boiled  halibut,  remove 
the  skin  and  bones  and  flake  it.  Season  it  with 
salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Make  a  cocktail  sauce  by 
mixing  together  for  each  glass 

I  teaspoonful    Tarra-     i  teaspoonful  lemon- 

gon  vinegar  juice 

I  teaspoonful  t  o  m  a  -     J  teaspoonful  of  horse- 
to  catsup  radish 
I  drop  Tabasco  sauce 

Take  about  a  tablespoonful  of  fish  for  each  por- 
tion, put  in  a  glass,  and  pour  the  sauce  over. 

Gold  Fish  with  Gold  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Arrange   slices   of   any   cold   boiled   fish   on   a 
platter.     Cover  them  with  slices  of  hard-cooked 
82 


PISH 

eggs  which  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Remove  the  bones  and  rub  two  or  three 
sardines  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  them  to  any 
left-over  Hollandaise  sauce  (see  page  72).  When 
ready  to  serve  pour  the  sauce  over  the  fish  and 
sprinkle  a  few  chopped  capers  over  all. 

Creamed  Fish 

Make  as  much  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68) 
as  there  is  flaked  fish,  and  add  a  slight  grating  of 
nutmeg.  Season  the  fish  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  to  the  hot  sauce,  together  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cooked  green  peas,  and  serve  as  soon 
as  heated. 

Fish  with  Creamed  Oysters 

A  little  left-over  boiled  fish  and  a  few  creamed 
oysters  arranged  in  ramekins  with  any  white  or 
drawn  butter  sauce  (see  pages  67-70),  covered  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  browned  in  oven,  make  an 
acceptable  luncheon  dish. 

Fish  and  Cheese  Souffle 

See  page  169. 

Baked  Chowder 

3  raw  potatoes,  sliced     li  cups  boiled  fish 
very  thin  3     slices     of     cooked 

2  small  onions,  sliced  bacon  and  bacon 

thin  fat 

I  cup  stewed  tomatoes    Salt  and  pepper 
I  cup  water 

In  a  buttered  baking-dish  arrange  alternate  lay- 
ers of  potatoes,  onions,  tomatoes,  and  fish,  sea- 
soning each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 

83 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

of  the  bacon  crushed  fine,  and  the  bacon  fat. 
Moisten  with  the  Water,  dredge  the  top  with  flour, 
and  bake  covered  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  then 
uncover  and  brown. 

Mock  Lobster  in  Chafing-dish 

I J  cups    boiled    fish,  i  tablespoonful    but- 

pref  erably  salmon  ter 

1  cup  stewed  tomatoes  Salt,   paprika,  and    a 

well  seasoned  little    Worcester- 

2  tablespoonf uls  crack-  shire  sauce 

er  crumbs  i  tablespoonful  butter 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing-dish,  add  the 
tomatoes,  fish,  seasoning,  and  crumbs.  Heat  all 
well  together. 

Boston  Scalloped  Fish 

2  J  cups    cold    flaked  §  cup  cracker-crumbs, 

haddock  or  hali-  buttered 

but  I  teaspoonful  pepper 

I J  cups   white   sauce  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

No.    I    (see  page  i   tablespoonful    but- 

6  7 ) ,  or  drawn  but-  ter 

ter  sauce  (p.  70) 

Put  one-half  of  the  fish  in  the  bottom  of  a  well- 
buttered  baking -dish,  add  seasoning  and  small 
bits  of  butter.  Cover  with  cracker  -  crumbs  and 
pour  over  half  of  the  sauce.  Repeat  and  cover 
the  top  with  a  few  crumbs,  and  brown  in  hot 
oven. 

Baked  Fish  in  Pepper  Cases 

Carefully  remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  any 
baked  fish  and  season  it  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 

84 


FISH 


little  onion  juice.  Mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity 
of  left-over  stuffing,  or  coarse  crumbs  moistened 
with  butter.  The  mixture  should  be  quite  moist; 
if  not,  add  a  little  fish  stock  or  milk.  Cut  length- 
wise as  many  green  sweet  peppers  as  needed,  re- 
move seeds,  parboil  five  minutes,  and  fill  them 
with  the  fish.  Put  them  in  an  agate  baking-pan, 
surround  with  hot  fish  stock  or  boiling  water  half 
an  inch  deep,  and  cook  until  cases  are  soft,  but 
not  broken. 

Fish  Loaf 
Flake  the  remnants  of  any  baked  fish.  There 
should  be  two  cups ;  if  not,  fill  out  with  raw  oysters. 
Add  one  cup  of  stuffing  left  from  the  fish,  or  one 
cup  of  coarse  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  melted 
butter,  and  one  beaten  egg.  Season  well  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  one  teaspoonful  finely  minced  pickle. 
Turn  into  a  small  bread-pan  or  quart  mold,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  place  in  pan  of  hot  water 
and  cook  in  moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour. 
Unmold  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  with  white 
sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68),  adding  one-quarter 
cup  cooked  peas  to  the  sauce. 

Fish  with  Mushrooms 

I  cup  fish  I  cup  white  sauce  No. 

I   tablespoonful  chop-  2  (see  page  68) 

ped  onion  i  tablespoonful  butter 

li  cups  button  mush-     2  tablespoonfuls  grat- 

rooms  ed  cheese 

Baked  or  boiled  fish  can  be  used.     Flake  the  fish, 
cut  the  mushrooms  in  halves  and  cook  until  tender 
(canned   ones  may  be  used).     "Brown  the  onion 
8s 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

lightly  in  the  butter  and  add  fish,  white  sauce, 
and  mushrooms.  Place  in  ramekins,  cover  top  with 
grated  cheese,  and  heat  in  oven  until  cheese  melts. 

Creamed  Fish  in  Potato  Cups 

Discard  all  bones  and  skin  from  any  boiled  or 
fried  fish.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  lemon-juice.  Make  white  sauce  No.  3  (see 
page  68),  allowing  half  as  much  sauce  as  fish. 
Add  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg  to  the  sauce  and 
add  fish  to  it.  Put  the  mixture  in  potato  cups 
and  brown  lightly  in  oven. 

Potato  Cups 

These  are  easily  made  by  adding  one  egg  yolk 
to  one  cup  well-seasoned  mashed  potato.  The 
potato  should  be  slightly  warm.  This  amount 
will  make  four  cups.  Invert  any  custard  cups  or 
jelly-glasses  and  cover  the  outside,  bottom  and 
two  inches  up  the  sides  with  the  potato  mixture. 
Smooth  over  and  set  away  to  get  cold.  When 
ready  to  use  turn  right  side  up  on  a  well-buttered 
flat  pan  and  very  carefully  remove  the  molds. 
Brush  the  outside  with  beaten  egg  and  milk  before 
adding  the  fish. 

Fresh  Fish  Cakes 

Any  kind  of  cooked  fish  can  be  used  for  these. 
It  should  be  shredded  fine  and  highly  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  Worcestershire 
sauce,  if  liked.  Moisten  dry  fish,  such  as  fresh 
cod  or  haddock,  with  a  little  melted  butter.  Mix 
the  fish  with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potato. 
The  best  results  are  obtained  when  the  potato  is 
86 


FISH 


freshly  mashed,  seasoned  well  with  salt,  butter,  a 
little  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  one  egg  yolk  added 
to  each  cup  of  potato.  Beat  the  mixture  until 
light  before  adding  the  fish.  Form  into  flat  cakes 
and  brown  in  a  little  salt  pork  fat. 

Fish  Balls  Baked 

I  cup  cooked  fish,      i    tablespoonful   club 

flaked  cheese 

I  cup  cold  rice  i  teaspoonful  lemon- 

I  egg  juice 

Salt  and  pepper 

Beat  the  egg  until  light,  then  add  fish,  rice,  cheese, 
and  seasoning.  Form  into  small  balls,  place  in  a 
buttered  pan  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
on  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  tomato  sauce  (see 
page  71). 

Fish  Salad  in  Green  Peppers 

Cut  lengthwise  three  or  four  green  sweet  pep- 
pers, remove  the  seeds  and  set  away  to  chill.  Dis- 
card all  skin  and  bones  from  any  cold  boiled  fish 
and  pick  apart  into  suitable  sized  pieces  for  salad. 
Season  it  with  salt  and  pepper  as  needed,  and 
sprinkle  with  a  little  lemon-juice.  When  ready  to 
prepare  the  salad,  mix  the  fish  with  enough 
mayonnaise  (see  page  74)  or  cold  HoUandaise 
sauce  (see  page  72)  to  cover  it  well.  Fill  the 
peppers  with  this  mixture,  letting  it  fall  in  lightly, 
and  garnish  the  top  of  each  with  a  slice  of  hard- 
cooked  egg.  This  makes  a  good  Saturday  luncheon 
dish  in  warm  weather. 

Shad-Roe  Salad 

When  the  shad  roe  is  not  needed  for  the  fish 
4inner,  a  salad  can  be  made  of  it  for  the  ne^t  day's 

-    «7 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

luncheon.  It  spoils  quickly,  so  should  be  cooked 
promptly.  If  not  baked  with  the  fish,  put  the  roe 
in  slightly  salted  boiling  water  and  simmer  gently 
for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  and  wipe  dry. 
Dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  white  bread-crumbs, 
and  brown  lightly  in  a  little  butter.  While  still 
warm  pour  over  it  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon- juice 
and  season  with  salt  and  a  little  paprika.  Set 
away  to  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  it  in 
suitable-sized  pieces  and  mix  with  it  an  equal 
quantity  of  very  crisp  cucumber  cubes.  Cover 
with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  (see  page  74)  and 
decorate  the  top  with  capers  and  chopped  olives. 
Serve  on  crisp  lettuce-leaves.  This  salad  should 
be  prepared  just  before  serving. 

Jellied  Fish 

In  summer  cold  fish  is  quite  as  acceptable  as 
warm,  and  a  luncheon  dish  can  easily  be  prepared 
by  mixing  one  and  one-half  cups  of  any  well- 
seasoned  cold  flaked  fish  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  capers.  Soak  one  tablespoonful  of 
granulated  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water  for  half  an  hour.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  dissolves.  Then 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon- juice  and  a  little 
salt.  Put  slices  of  hard-cooked  eggs  in  the  bottom 
of  an  earthen  mold  holding  about  a  quart,  and  add 
the  fish.  Pour  the  jelly  carefully  over  all  and  put 
on  ice  to  harden.  Garnish  a  platter  with  water- 
cress or  lettuce  and  turn  the  mold  out  on  this.  It 
must  be  served  at  once  after  unmolding.  .  Use 
any  kind  of  salad  dressing,  or  sauce  Tartare  (see 
page  74)- 

m 


FISH 

Kedjeree 

I  cup  left-over  smoked  i   scant    cup    cooked 

fish  rice 

2hard-cooked  eggs  2  tablespoonf uls  but- 
Seasoning  ter 

Cook  eggs  hard,  or  if  any  soft-cooked  ones  are 
left  from  breakfast  steam  them  until  hard.  Care- 
fully take  out  the  bones  from  the  fish  and  chop  it 
up  with  the  eggs.  Reheat  cooked  rice,  having  it  a 
little  moist.  When  it  is  very  hot  put  in  the  fish, 
eggs,  and  butter,  and  heat  all  up  together.  Add 
paprika,  salt  if  necessary,  and  serve  very  hot. 
Smoked  haddock  or  white  fish  recommended  for 
this  dish. 

Fish  Melange 

1  cup  cold  boiled  fish     i  cup  white  sauce  No.  i 

(cod,  halibut,  sal-  (see  page  67) 

mon,  etc.)  2  tablespoonfuls  but- 

2  cups  riced  potato  ter 

Cayenne  Salt  and  white  pepper 

Flake  fish,  add  potato,  and  beat  as  for  mashed 
potatoes,  adding  butter,  salt,  and  white  pepper. 
Mix  with  white  sauce  seasoned  with  a  dash  of 
cayenne,  put  into  a  buttered  porcelain  dish,  dot 
with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  brown. 

Fish  and  Potato  Salad 

Use  for  this  salad  any  left-over  white  fish,  baked, 
boiled,  broiled,  or  sauted,  being  careful  to  remove 
all  bones.  For  each  cup  of  flaked  fish  use  one 
cup  of  potatoes  cut  in  dice.  Mix  with  French 
dressing  No.  i   (see  page  73),  pouring  it  over  fish 

89 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

and  potato  separately.  If  potato  is  freshly  boiled 
and  warm  when  dressing  is  added,  seasoning 
will  penetrate  potato  more  easily,  giving  better 
flavor.  When  ready  to  put  salad  together,  drain 
off  any  excess  of  liquid,  add  chopped  sweet  red 
peppers  (canned),  and  mix  carefully,  that  potato 
may  keep  its  shape.  Season  more  highly  if  neces- 
sary. Serve  in  individual  portions  on  crisp  lettuce- 
leaves,  putting  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing 
(see  page  84)  on  top  of  each.  Garnish  with  nar- 
row strips  of  red  peppers. 

Oyster  Bisque 

When  creaming  oysters,  if  the  juice  is  not  used, 
save  it  and  make  a  bisque  for  the  next  meal.  (It 
should  not  be  kept  long.)  Melt  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  flour  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  one  cup  of  strained  oyster-juice.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  let  boil.  Mix  beaten  yolk  of 
one  egg  with  one-quarter  cup  of  cream;  add  hot 
mixture  to  this  slowly,  stirring  briskly.  Serve  at 
once.  Chicken  stock,  if  at  hand,  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  part  or  all  of  the  water. 

Salmon  Canapes 

Small  pieces  of  white  or  rye  bread  can  be  profit- 
ably utilized  by  cutting  them  into  neat  round  or 
oblong  shapes,  browning  in  fat  in  a  frying-pan,  and 
spreading  with  a  canape  mixture  made  by  rubbing 
some  bits  of  smoked  salmon  to  a  smooth  paste, 
mixing  it  with  one  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 
one  tablespoonful  of  Tarragon  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  green  sweet  peppers, 
90 


FISH 

and  one-half  tablespoonftil  of  finely  minced  capers. 
Serve  these  at  the  beginning  of  a  luncheon  or  a 
dinner. 

Salmon  Soup 

The  remnants  of  any  canned  or  boiled  salmon 
may  be  used  for  this.  Pick  the  fish  apart  and 
moisten  with  the  liquor  in  the  can  and  a  little  warm 
water,  or  water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled.  Press 
it  through  a  puree  strainer.  There  should  be  one 
cup  fish  pulp  and  liquid.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  as  needed.  Make  two  cups  of  white  sauce 
No.  I  (see  page  67),  add  the  fish,  and  heat  to- 
gether, but  do  not  boil.  Just  before  serving  add 
a  little  well-washed  and  finely  minced  parsley,  or 
a  tablespoonfui  of  hot  green  peas.  If  too  thick, 
thin  with  a  little  hot  milk. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

f  cup  boiled  or  canned     i  cup  green  peas 

salmon  h  tablespoonfui  lemon- 

I  cup  white  sauce  No.  juice 

4  (see  page  68) 

Salt,  pepper,  dash  nutmeg 

Flake  the  fish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  as 
needed,  and  sprinkle  with  lemon-juice.  Add  nut- 
meg to  white  sauce,  and  mix  fish,  sauce,  and  peas 
together.  Set  away  to  get  very  cold.  Shape, 
roll  in  fine  white  crumbs,  dip  carefully  in  slightly 
beaten  egg  and  roll  again  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep 
fat.  If  the  mixture  should  be  too  soft  to  shape 
add  a  few  cracker-crumbs.  Press  the  peas  through 
a  wire  strainer  without  any  liquid,  as  they  need 
7  91 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

to  be  very  stiff.     Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  the  croquettes  with  sauce  Tartare  (see  page 

74). 

Salmon  Loaf 

1 1  cups  cold  cooked  3  eggs,  well  beaten 
salmon  (fresh  or  3  tablespoonfuls  melt- 
canned)  ed  butter 

f  cup  bread-crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  well  and  steam  one  hour.  Serve  with 
dressing  (see  below). 

Special  Dressing  for  Salmon  Loaf 

I  cup  milk  I  well-beaten  egg 

I  scant  tablespoonful      i  teaspoonful  butter 
corn-starch  Salt  and  pepper 

Heat  milk,  add  corn-starch  blended  with  cold 
water,  and  cook  together  one  minute,  or  until 
sauce  boils.  Combine  with  egg,  cook  slightly, 
add  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Pour  over  loaf  and 
serve  hot  or  cold. 

Salmon  Salad 

Season  large  pieces  of  left-over  salmon  with  vine- 
gar, salt,  and  pepper,  ^rhen  ready  to  use,  drain 
off  liquid,  place  in  center  of  platter  on  lettuce,  and 
surround  with  any  one  or  two,  or  all  of  the  follow- 
ing vegetables:  string-beans,  asparagus  tips,  peas, 
beets,  tomatoes  (less  of  this  than  of  the  others). 
Use  lettuce  leaves  as  a  border.  Serve  with 
mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  (see  pages  73-74). 

Salmon  Scallop 

Butter  a  baking-dish  and  put  in  alternate  layers 
of  bread-crumbs  and  cooked  flaked  salmon,  having 
92 


FISH 


bottom  and  top  layer  crumbs.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  fill  up  dish  with  milk,  dot  bits  of 
butter  over  top,  and  bake.  Left-over  baked  blue- 
fish  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

A  Breakfast  Relish  of  Smoked  Salmon 

A  few  very  thin  slices  of  smoked  salmon,  dipped 
in  boiling  water  and  placed  on  rounds  of  browned 
and  buttered  toast,  one  slice  on  each  round,  and 
a  poached  egg  slipped  on  top,  make  an  appetizing 
breakfast  dish. 

Creamed  Codfish  and  Macaroni 

Heat  one  cup  of  creamed  salt  codfish  with  one 
cup  of  cooked  macaroni,  or  macaroni  and  cheese, 
adding  more  cream  or  milk  if  necessary.  Serve 
in  a  border  of  scrambled  eggs.  This  makes  an 
excellent  breakfast  relish. 

Codfish  Scallop  with  Rice  and  Eggs 

I J  cups  creamed  cod-     2  tablespoonfuls  cream 
fish  or    I    tablespoon- 

ij  cups  boiled  rice  ful  butter 

4  eggs 

Mix  the  cream  or  melted  butter  with  the  rice 
and  arrange  alternate  layers  of  fish  and  rice  in  a 
buttered  quart  baking-dish,  finishing  with  rice. 
Carefully  break  four  eggs  on  top,  season  the  whites 
with  salt,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  cream  or  dot 
with  butter.  Bake  in  oven  until  heated  and  eggs 
"set,"  or  individual  ramekins  may  be  used  and 
an  eg§  slipped  on  top  of  each. 
93 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

Fish  with  Pie  Crust 

Line  a  baking-tin  with  a  good  pastry  crust  and 
bake  it.  Remove  all  bones  and  skin  from  any  cold 
boiled  white  fish  and  flake  it.  There  should  be 
two  cups;  if  not,  fill  out  with  a  few  raw  oysters. 
Season  as  needed  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make 
quite  moist  with  drawn  butter  sauce  (see  page 
70),  or  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68),  reserv- 
ing enough  sauce  to  cover  top.  Spread  the  mix- 
ture on  the  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  layer  of 
thin  slices  of  hard-cooked  eggs,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  remaining  sauce. 
Sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  hot 
oven. 

Fish  Hash 

I  cup    any  kind    of  i  tablespoonful  green 
white  fish  sweet   pepper, 

I  cup  diced  potatoes  shredded 

I  hard-cooked  egg  2  tablespoonfuls  melt- 
I  teaspoonful  mixed  ed  butter 

mustard  ^  cup  milk 
Salt,  pepper 

Flake  the  fish,  add  seasoning,  chop  the  egg, 
toss  the  potatoes  in  the  melted  butter,  and  mix 
all  together.  Melt  a  little  extra  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  when  hot  add  the  mixture,  cover,  and 
cook  slowly  until  all  is  well  blended,  then  uncover 
and  brown  on  bottom.  Fold  over  and  turn  out 
on  a  warm  platter. 

Stuffed  Peppers  with  Crab  Meat 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem-end  of  as  many  green 
fweet  peppers  as  needed,  remove  seeds  and  par^i- 

94 


PISH 


tion  walls  and  parboil  for  five  minutes.  Brush  the 
inside  of  each  with  melted  butter  and  fill  with  a 
mixture  made  of  equal  quantities  of  cooked  rice 
and  cold  crab  meat.  Moisten  the  rice  with  a  little 
sweet  cream  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  grated 
cheese  to  a  cup  of  rice.  Season  the  crab  meat  with 
salt,  paprika,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon -juice. 
Mix  all  lightly  together  and  have  it  quite  moist. 
Place  the  peppers  in  an  agate  baking-pan,  surround 
with  boiling  water,  adding  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  to  half  a  cup  of  water.  Baste  now  and  then. 
Cook  about  fifteen  minutes. 

Scallop  of  Fried  Fish  with  Fresh  Tomatoes 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  any  kind  of 
fried  fish.  Season  highly,  adding  Worcestershire 
if  liked.  Arrange  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  in 
alternate  layers  with  peeled  and  sliced  fresh  toma- 
toes. Season  tomatoes  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
dots  of  butter.  Cover  top  with  well-buttered 
cracker-crumbs.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
tomatoes  are  quite  soft  and  crumbs  browned. 

Broiled  Sardines  on  Toast 

Prepare  pieces  of  toast,  moistening  with  butter 
melted  in  hot  water.  Broil  sardines  until  well 
heated  through,  place  on  toast  on  platter,  and 
garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Sardines  with  Tomato  Catsup 

Cook  sardines  in  pan  slightly.    Heat  catsup  an^ 
pour  over  them.     Serve  on  crackers. 
95 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Toasted  Sardine  Sandwiches 

Cut  thin  slices  of  white  bread  into  squares,  tri- 
angles, or  rounds.  Remove  bones  and  skin  from 
sardines,  add  lemon- juice  and  a  dash  of  cayenne 
to  the  fish.  Spread  bread  lightly  with  butter,  then 
with  the  sardine  mixture  and  toast  a  delicate 
brown.  Serve  very  hot.  A  good  dish  for  Sunday 
night  supper. 

Luncheon  Relish  of   Sardines 

Dip  slices  of  cold  hominy  in  milk  and  eggs 
beaten  together.  Lay  them  in  a  buttered  pan 
and  put  one  sardine  on  each  slice.  Brown  lightly 
in  a  hot  oven. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO   DO   WITH   LEFT-OVER 
VEGETABLES 


During  warm  weather,  when  vegetables  are 
most  abundant,  great  care  should  be  taken  not 
to  allow  them  to  accumulate  in  the  ice-box  or 
pantry,  as  they  spoil  quickly  after  being  cooked. 
As  a  general  rule,  they  are  not  injured,  either  in 
digestibility  or  flavor,  by  reheating,  and  as  they 
are  an  expensive  item  in  the  food  bill,  especially 
in  cities,  they  should  never  be  wasted.  Even  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  almost  any  cooked  vegetable 
will  help  to  flavor  a  soup  or  sauce. 

Dried  Celery  Leaves  or  Parsley 

Thoroughly  dry  all  celery  leaves  or  parsley  in  a 
cool  oven  or  on  the  warming  shelf.  Pulverize  by 
rubbing  through  a  sieve  and  put  in  bottles.  These 
make  an  unexcelled  seasoning  for  soups. 

Macedoine  Garnish 

A  few  spoonfuls  of  cooked  peas,  asparagus  tips, 
carrots,  or  string-beans  that  have  been  served  with- 
out a  cream  sauce,  may  any  or  all  be  reheated  and 
used  to  garnish  a  platter  of  broiled  chops.  A  few 
left-over  radishes  kept  crisp  and  sliced  very  thin^ 

lOI 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

without  peeling,  make  an  attractive  garnish  with 
parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  for  baked  fish. 

Puree  of  Vegetable 

Take  one  creamed  onion,  a  few  peas,  carrots, 
string-beans,  or  other  green  vegetables  left  from 
dinner,  and  while  still  slightly  warm  pass  them 
through  a  sieve  together.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Use  this  pulp  the  next  day  for  a  cream  soup 
by  seasoning  it  as  needed,  adding  to  it  equal  quan- 
tity white  sauce  No.  i  (see  page  67,  and  heat- 
ing all  together.  A  spoonful  or  two  of  sweet  cream 
is  always  an  addition  to  such  soups. 

Vegetable  Hash 

Chop  turnips,  cabbage,  beets,  carrots,  and  onions, 
one  or  all,  with  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  season,  moisten 
with  little  milk  or  gravy,  and  brown  quickly  in  hot 
bacon  fat,  butter,  or  dripping. 

Omelet  with  Vegetables 

A  breakfast  omelet  may  be  varied  by  spreading 
it,  just  before  folding,  with  a  few  green  peas  or 
asparagus  tips,  or  a  little  stewed  corn  or  tomatoes 
that  have  been  heated  and  well  seasoned. 

Asparagus  with  Cheese 

2  cups  cooked  aspara-     J  cup  grated  cheese 
gus,  cut  in  half-     4  tablespoonfuls  melt- 
inch  pieces  ed  butter 

I  cup    soft    bread-     J  cup  milk 
crumbs  Salt,  pepper 

Moisten  the  bread-crumbs  with  the  melted  but- 
ter.    Arrange  in  a  baking-dish  alternate  layers  of 
102 


VEGETABLES 


bread-crumbs,  asparagus  and  cheese,  seasoning 
each  layer.  Sprinkle  a  few  buttered  cracker- 
crumbs  on  top.  Pour  the  milk  over  all.  Brown 
lightly  in  a  hot  oven. 

Asparagus  Soup 

Cut  the  tender  tips  from  cook'^d  asparagus,  set 
them  aside  and  cook  the  stalks  in  some  of  the 
water  in  which  the  asparagus  was  cooked  the  day 
before.  Cook  down  to  a  cupful,  strain,  and  add 
to  two  cupfuls  of  white  sauce  No  i  A  (see  page 
68).  Heat  to  boiling,  add  the  asparagus  tips, 
and  serve. 

Baked -Bean  and  Tomato  Puree 

2  cups  baked  beans         i  onion,  sliced 
2  cups  cold  water  i  pint  stewed  and 

I  tablespoonful  flour  strained  tomato 

Sugar,  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  beans  and  onion  in  watei>  until  very  soft. 
Strain.  To  one  cup  of  thick  bean  pulp  add  tomato 
and  seasoning.  Thicken  with  the  flour  mixed 
smooth  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Boil  well 
after  adding  flour.  If  too  thick,  hot  water  may 
be  added. 

Baked-Bean  Soup  (with  Milk) 

I  cup  bean  pulp  2  cups    thin   white 

Salt  and  pepper  sauce  No.  i   (see 

page  67) 

Prepare  bean  pulp  as  in  preceding  rule,  com- 
bine it  with  the  thin  white  sauce,  add  seasoning 
and,  if  necessary,  hot  milk  to  thin  it. 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Baked-Bean  Salad 

Drain  the  liquid  from  baked  beans,  season  more 
highly,  and  add  a  little  chopped  cucumber  pickle. 
Serve  in  a  bed  of  lettuce-leaves,  dressing  with 
mayonnaise.  This  salad  may  be  the  principal  dish 
for  a  winter  luncheon,  as  it  has  much  food  value. 

A  Good  Way  to  Warm  Over  Baked  Beans 

Put  into  a  hot  frying-pan  some  of  the  pork  cooked 
with  the  beans.  When  the  fat  has  melted  and  is 
hot,  pour  in  the  beans,  cover,  and  set  pan  back  on 
stove  where  beans  will  cook  slowly  and  brown 
underneath.  Fold  over  like  an  omelet,  turn  out 
on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  with  savory  tomato 
sauce  (see  page  71),  or  tomato  catsup.  Garnish 
dish  with  parsley. 

Baked-Bean  Rarebit 

I  cup  grated  cheese  i  tablespoonf ul   b  u  t  - 

I  cup  milk  ter 

I  cup   bake<i  beans,  i  egg  slightly  beaten 

mashed  A  little  salt  and  mixed 
Slices  of  Boston  brown  mustard 

bread  toast 

Have  the  toast  ready  and  hot.  Cook  in  a 
saucepan,  or  chafing-dish  over  hot  water.  Melt 
the  cheese  in  the  hot  butter.  Add  the  seasoning 
and  then  the  milk  gradually,  stirring  until  per- 
fectly smooth.  Then  add  the  mashed  beans  and 
slightly  beaten  egg.  Pour  at  once  over  the  hot 
toast. 

Succotash 

Mix  one  cup  of  left-over  beans,  either  shelled  or 
string  beans,  with  one  cup  of  stewed  corn,  fresh 
104 


VEGETABLES 


or  canned.  Season  as  needed,*  and  heat  slowly- 
together.  A  little  chopped  cooked  bacon  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

Creamed  Beets 

Any  left-over  beets  that  have  been  served  with 
butter  and  no  vinegar  may  be  creamed  by  way 
of  variety.  Chop  them  coarse,  and  to  each  cup 
of  beets  allow  one  cup  of  white  sauce  No.  2  (see 
page  68).     Heat  together. 

Cabbage  Scallop 

Season  more  highly  any  left-over  cooked  cab- 
bage, mix  with  white  sauce  No.  i  A  (see  page  68)  in 
the  proportion  of  one  cup  of  sauce  to  two  of  cab- 
bage. Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in  the  mixture, 
and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  using  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter  to  one-third  cup  of  dried 
and  rolled  bread-crumbs.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  the  sauce  bubbles  through  the  crumbs  and 
they  are  brown.  Individual  ramekins  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  larger  dish. 

Creamed  Cabbage  in  Cheese  Shells 

See  page  169. 

Carrots  and  Peas  in  Croustades 

Prepare  four  croustades  (for  receipt,  see  below). 
Combine  any  left-over  cooked  carrots  and  peas, 
cutting  the  carrots  into  dice.  Add  seasoning  if 
necessary,  and  mix  with  white  sauce  No.  2  (see 
page  68).  Heat  and  serve  in  hot  croustades. 
105 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Groustades     * 

Cut  two-inch  slices  of  bread  and  trim  off  the 
crusts.  Remove  center  a  half  inch  from  each 
edge,  being  careful  not  to  break  through  the  bot- 
tom. They  may  be  either  toasted,  sauted,  buttered 
and  browned  in  the  oven,  or  fried  in  deep  fat. 

Carrot  Croquettes 

I  cup  cooked    car-     i  cup  white  sauce  No. 

rots  4  (see  page  68) 

I  cup  cooked  peas  i  egg 

Salt,  pepper,  and  grating  of  nutmeg 

Press  the  carrots  and  peas  through  a  puree  sieve. 
They  go  through  more  easily  if  warm.  Add  sea- 
soning, unbeaten  egg,  and  white  sauce,  and  set 
away  to  chill.  Form  into  croquettes,  roll  in 
crumbs  and  egg,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Cauliflower  in  Ramekins 

Separate  the  flowerets  of  any  cold  cauliflower, 
toss  them  carefully  about  in  a  little  melted  butter, 
and  pour  over  them  an  equal  quantity  of  cheese 
sauce  (see  page  69).  Place  the  mixture  in  rame- 
kins, sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  heat  in  oven  until  sauce  bubbles  through. 

Sauted  Cauliflower 

Cut  cold  cooked  cauliflowet  into  pieces  of  suit- 
able size,  dip  lightly  in  flotir  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  brown  in  hot  bacon  fat  or  dripping. 

Celery  Soup 

Take  the  tough  stalks,  leaves,  and  roots  of  any 
celery.     Wash  carefully,  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover 
106 


VEGETABLES 


with  about  three  cups  of  slightly  salted  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until  very  soft.  Pass  all  through 
a  wire  sieve.  There  should  be  two  cups  of  pulp 
and  liquid.  Scald  two  cups  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  with  one  slice  of  onion.  Strain  and  use  this 
in  making  two  cups  white  sauce  No.  i  (see  page 
67).  Add  the  celery  mixture  to  this,  and  heat  all 
together,  but  do  not  boil.  Serve  very  hot  with 
croutons  (see  page  149)- 

Celery  Toast 

Take  the  outer  and  less  tender  stalks  of  celery 
that  are  often  thrown  away,  cut  them  into  half-inch 
pieces,  and  cook  in  very  slightly  salted  water  until 
tender.  Drain  and  use  one-half  cup  of  this 
water  and  one-half  cup  of  milk  to  make  a  white 
sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68).  Add  the  celery  to  the 
sauce,  and  pour  over  slices  of  nicely  .browned  and 
buttered  toast.     Serve  very  hot. 

Escalloped  Celery 

Use  the  coarse,  large  pieces  of  celery  not  suit- 
able to  serve  uncooked.  Cut  them  into  small  pieces. 
Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  celery,  then 
a  layer  of  tomatoes  (canned  ones  may  be  used). 
Sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat,  having  last  layer 
tomatoes.  Cover  with  small  cubes  of  bread  and 
dot  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  half  an  hour. 

Corn  "Oysters" 

Grate  the  pulp  from  ears  of  any  cooked  sweet 
corn,  and  to  each  cup  allow  one  egg  beaten  light, 
8  107 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

one  tablespoonful  milk,  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  melted  butter,  one  half  teaspoonful 
salt.  Mix  all  together  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
a  hot  buttered  griddle  and  brown  on  both  sides. 
A  little  uncooked  corn  pulp  is  a  great  addition  to 
these  cakes. 

Corn  in  Tomato  Gases 

Remove  most  of  the  pulp  from  six  medium-sized 
tomatoes.  Rub  the  inside  of  the  cases  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  softened  butter.  Fill  them 
with  one  cup  of  stewed  corn  mixed  with  one  table- 
spoonful of  grated  cheese.  Cover  lightly  with  but- 
tered crumbs,  place  in  an  agate  pan,  and  bake  until 
the  cases  are  tender  but  not  broken. 

Corn  Cakes 

Take  equal  parts  of  mashed  potato  and  cooked 
corn,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten  egg  to  bind 
together.  Dip  the  flat  cakes  in  flour  and  saut6 
in  hot  butter  or  bacon  fat,  or  form  into  balls,  roll 
in  bread-crumbs,  in  egg,  and  in  crumbs  again.  Fry 
in  deep  fat.  A  tomato  sauce  may  be  served  with 
these  (see  page  71). 

Corn  Soup 

3  ears  cooked  corn  2  cups  white  sauce 

3  cups  cold  water  No.    i    (see  page 

Slice  of  onion  67) 

I  egg  I  teaspoonful  salt 

A  little  celery  or  celery  salt 

Score  the  corn  by  cutting  with  a  sharp  knife 
down  each  row  of  kernels.     Scrape  out  the  corn 
with  a  spoon,  leaving  hulls  on  the  cob.      Set  the 
108 


VEGETABLES 


scraped  corn  aside;  there  should  be  half  a  cupful. 
Cook  cobs  in  water  with  onion,  celery,  and  salt 
for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  water  is  reduced  to 
one  cupful.  Add  this  to  the  white  sauce,  season 
more  highly  if  necessary,  boil  up  well,  and  when 
ready  to  serve  put  in  the  half  cupful  of  corn. 
Heat  a  little,  but  do  not  boil.  Beat  egg  and 
put  into  the  tureen,  pour  the  soup  gradually  over 
it,  stirring,  to  mix  evenly. 

Baked  Com 

I  cup  cooked   corn     i  cup  milk 

cut  from  cob  i  chopped  green  pepper 

I  beaten  egg  Salt  and  pepper 

Buttered  bread-crumbs 

Cut  down  rows  of  kernels  with  sharp  knife  and 
scrape  out  com.  Mix  with  egg,  milk,  salt,  pepper, 
and  chopped  green  pepper  (being  careful  not  to 
put  in  the  seeds).  Sprinkle  top  with  crumbs  and 
brown.  Serve  very  hot.  (It  is  cooked  in  about 
twenty  minutes.) 

Corn  Pudding   (from  Uncooked  Corn) 

Com  on  the  cob  loses  flavor  sooner  than  any 
vegetable.  Do  not  try  to  serve  it  in  that  way 
unless  perfectly  fresh.  If  any  uncooked  ears  are 
left  over  grate  them.  Six  good-sized  ears  will 
give  one  and  one-half  cups  of  corn  pulp.  Add  to 
this  one  egg  beaten  very  light,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  one-quarter  cup  of  milk. 
Butter  a  quart  baking-dish,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  until  firm  in  the  center — about  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Serv^  at  once  as  a  vegetable. 
109 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Stewed  Cucumbers 

Use  those  which  are  too  large  and  old  to  slice 
raw.  Pare  them  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.  Slice  in  quarters  lengthwise,  and  re- 
heat in  drawn  butter  sauce  (see  page  70)  or  white 
sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68).  A  dish  similar  to 
English  vegetable  marrow. 

Scallop  of  Eggplant 

Chop  the  remnants  of  fried  eggplant  rather 
coarse.  Arrange  in  ramekins  in  alternate  layers 
with  well-buttered  cracker-crumbs,  finishing  with 
the  crumbs.  Pour  enough  milk  over  so  that  it 
can  just  be  seen,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  This 
dish  resembles  oysters  in  taste. 

Gream-of-Lettuce  Soup 

I  qt.  milk,  scalded  3  white  onions  (cook- 

1  pt.  cold  water  ed  ones  may  be 
Lettuce  leaves                         used)  • 

2  or  3  small  carrots  Flour  for  thickening 
Salt  and  pepper  (about  2^  table- 
Handful  of  parsley                  spoonfuls) 

When  using  the  hearts  of  cabbage-lettuce  for 
salad,  prepare  soup  from  the  best  outside  leaves. 
Wash  well  lettuce  leaves  and  parsley,  add  onions 
and  carrots,  pour  over  them  the  water  and  cook 
until  the  vegetables  are  soft  enough  to  put  through 
a  strainer.  (The  pulp  should  be  scraped  from 
strainer  and  used.)  Thicken  this  liquid  with 
blended  flour  and  water,  let  boil,  then  gradually 
^44  scalded  n^ilk. 

?I9 


VEGETABLES 


Baked  Macaroni 

Chop  two  hard-cooked  eggs  rather  coarse,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  mix  lightly  with  two 
cups  of  cooked  macaroni.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish  and  half  fill  with  milk.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs,  place  thin  strips  of  bacon  on 
top,  and  bake  until  the  bacon  is  crisp. 

Savory  Macaroni 

Crisp  a  little  chopped  bacon  in  a  frying-pan,  add 
a  medium-sized  onion  sliced,  and  brown  delicately. 
Toss  up  with  this  two  cups  of  cold  macaroni  or 
macaroni  and  cheese  until  well  mixed.  Cover  and 
set  where  it  will  warm  through  slowly. 

Macaroni  with  Smoked  Beef 

Cook  a  little  smoked  beef  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
hot  butter  two  or  three  minutes,  add  one-half 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  cup  of  milk,  and  stir 
often  until  it  thickens.  Add  to  this  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  cold  macaroni.  Cook  together  until 
well  heated.     Serve  on  well-buttered  hot  toast. 

Macaroni  in  Glieese  Shells 

See  Cheese  Shells  with  Creamed  Cabbage,  page 
169. 

Macaroni  in  Tomato  Gases 

Prepare  several  large  tomatoes,  cutting  a  slice 
oflf  top  and  scraping  out  the  inside  pulp.  Season 
the  cases  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fill  with  cooked 
macaroni.  Over  the  top  sprinkle  buttered  crumbs. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  crumbs  are  brown 
and  the  tomatoes  are  partially  cooked,  but  not 
8  III 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

long  enough  for  them  to  lose  their  shape.     The 
tomato  pulp  may  be  used  for  making  soup  or  sauce. 

Scallop  of  Onion  and  Potato 

I    cup    cold  creamed     |  cup  milk 

onions  i  tablespoonful  but- 

i§  cups  cold  potatoes  ter 

Salt  and  pepper 

Butter  a  baking -dish.  Slice  half  of  the  pota- 
toes and  season.  Add  the  creamed  onions.  Cover 
with  the  rest  of  the  potatoes,  moisten  with  the 
milk,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  one-half 
hour. 

Parsnip  Cakes 

Use  left-over  boiled,  buttered  parsnips  for  mak- 
ing these  cakes.  Mash  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  make  into  fiat,  round  calces,  dip  in  flour, 
and  saut^  in  hot  melted  beef-dripping  or  butter. 
Use  just  enough  fat  to  keep  the  cakes  from  stick- 
ing to  the  pan,  as  they  must  not  be  greasy, 

Green-Pea  or  Lima-Bean  Soup 

Cook  any  left-over  peas  or  Lima  beans  with  a 
little  cold  water  until  soft.  Strain,  and  for  every 
cup  of  the  puree  use  two  cups  of  white  sauce  No.  i 
(see  page  67).  Combine  mixtures,  thinning  with 
hot  milk  if  necessary.  Serve  with  croutons  (see 
page  149).     Dried  Lima  beans  may  be  used. 

Chopped  Potatoes 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine  and  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.     Heat  a  pan  and  melt  in  it 
one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  bacon  fat  or  dripping. 
112 


VEGETABLES 


When  the  fat  is  hot  turn  in  the  potatoes,  smoothing 
them  evenly  in  the  pan.  Cover  with  a  tin,  let  them 
steam  a  few  minutes,  set  on  one  side  of  the  stove, 
and  brown  slowly.  Turn  over  like  an  omelet  and 
serve  on  hot  platter.  Stewed  potatoes  may  be 
warmed  over  in  this  way,  but  do  not  chop  them. 

Stewed  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  baked  or  boiled  potatoes  into  dice,  put 
into  a  stew-pan  with  salt,  a  tiny  bit  of  onion 
minced  fine,  and  milk  enough  to  half  cover  the 
potatoes.  Set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  stew 
slowly,  stirring  with  a  fork  occasionally,  until  all 
the  milk  is  taken  up.  Season  with  butter  and 
pepper  and  serve. 

Scallop  of  Baked  Potatoes  and  Cheese 

Peel  the  left-over  potatoes  as  soon  as  the  meal 
is  over.  When  ready  to  use,  season  them  well  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter.  In  a  buttered 
baking-dish  arrange  alternate  layers  of  pota- 
toes, grated  cheese,  and  white  sauce  No.  2  (see 
page  68),  having  sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle  very 
lightly  with  buttered  crumbs  and  heat  in  oven. 

Potato  Salad 

New  potatoes  make  the  best  salad,  and  if  they 
have  been  boiled  with  the  jackets  on  so  much  the 
better.  Cut  them  in  neat  dice  shapes.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  To  two  cups  add  one- 
half  teaspoonful  onion-juice,  if  liked;  one  table- 
spoonful  very  finely  minced  capers,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  melted  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful 
lemon- juice.  Toss  all  together  carefully  so  as  not 
\         113 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

to  break  the  potatoes.  Chill.  When  ready  to 
serve  cover  with  a  cooked  salad  dressing  (see  page 
75),  and  arrange  on  a  bed  of  crisp,  white  lettuce 
leaves.  Garnish  with  rings  of  the  white  of  hard- 
cooked  egg,  and  sift  yolk  on  top. 

Potato  Pyramids 

To  one  cup  of  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes  add 
one  egg  yolk.  Beat  until  light.  Take  up  by 
tablespoonfuls  and  form  into  pyramid  shapes  by 
pointing  one  end,  and  broadening  the  other  as  a 
base  to  stand  on.  Set  them  on  a  buttered  tin, 
brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  when  ready  to 
serve,  brown  lightly  in  the  oven.  These  make  an 
attractive  garnish  for  meat  dishes.  Mashed  pota- 
toes are  more  easily  handled  if  shaped  directly 
after  a  meal  is  over,  while  still  slightly  warm. 

Potato  Patties 

I J   cups  boiled  pota-     3  tablespoonfuls  thick 
toes  (sliced)  meat  gravy 

2  tablespoonfuls  grat-     1 J  teaspoonfuls  onion- 

ed cheese  juice 

Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  all  together,  place  in  buttered  ramekins 
and  heat  in  oven. 

Cream-of-Potato  Soup 

I  cup  mashed  pota-     i  tablespoonful  but- 
toes  ter 

3  cups  milk  I  tablespoonful  flour 
Salt  and  white  pepper     i  slice  of  onion 

Heat  the  milk  and  onion  together,  but   do  not 
boil;  pour  over  the  cold  mashed  potato  and  press 
114 


VEGETABLES 


through  a  puree  strainer.  Melt  butter,  stir  in 
flour  and  let  bubble,  but  not  brown;  cool  slightly 
and  add  the  milk  mixture  slowly,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thickened.  Add  the  seasoning  and 
serve  very  hot,  sprinkling  a  few  nicely  browned 
croutons  or  a  little  grated  cheese  over  each  plate 
of  soup. 

Potato  Balls 
Form  any  well-seasoned  mashed  potatoes  into 
balls  the  size  of  English  walnuts.  With  a  tea- 
spoon press  a  hollow  in  the  top  of  each  ball.  Fill 
the  space  with  one  teaspoonful  finely  minced  ham. 
Brush  the  balls  with  egg  beaten  with  a  little  milk 
or  water.  Place  on  a  greased  pan  and  brown  in 
oven.  These  make  a  good  garnish  and  relish  for 
a  platter  of  chops. 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  rather  thick  slices. 
Season  with  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper.  Toss 
them  lightly  in  a  little  melted  butter,  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  them.  Barely  cover  with  rich  milk 
and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  to  each  cup  of 
milk  used.  Cover  and  cook  very  slowly  until  the 
mixture  is  well  thickened  and  creamy.  Just  be- 
fore serving  add  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley. 
By  way  of  variety,  these  may  be  served  in  turnip 
cups,  which  are  made  by  cutting  a  slice  from  the 
bottom  of  small  white  turnips,  paring  them,  and 
cooking  in  salted  water;  when  tender,  scoop  out 
the  inside,  leaving  a  wall  half  an  inch  thick. 

Potato  Croutons 

To  one  cup  of  mashed  potato  add  one  egg  yolk, 
and  beat  well  together.     Spread  half  an  inch  thick 
"5 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

on  a  flat,  buttered  platter,  and  when  quite  cool  cut 
in  two-inch  squares,  then  each  square  diagonally 
across,  to  form  triangular  pieces.  When  ready  to 
use,  brush  over  with  milk  and  brown  lightly  in  the 
oven  or  in  a  very  little  fat  in  the  frying-pan. 
These  make  an  attractive  garnish  for  a  platter  of 
chops  or  a  platter  of  fried  fish,  alternated  with 
slices  of  lemon. 

Irish  Potato  Cake 

To  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  add  a  well-beaten 
egg,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  well,  turn  out  on  well-floured  board, 
adding  a  little  more  flour  for  kneading,  and  form 
into  a  cake  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  this  cake  into 
wedge-shaped  pieces  and  brown  on  a  hot  griddle 
to  a  light  color.  Then  cover  with  an  inverted  pan 
and  cook  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  it  is  crusty — 
about  twenty  minutes.  It  is  to  be  eaten  hot  with 
butter. 

Potatoes  with  Cheese 

2  rounded  tablespoon-     1 1  cups  milk 

fuls  crumbled  6  small  cold  potatoes, 

cheese  sliced 

3  tablespoonfuls   but-     i  chopped  sweet  bell- 

ter  pepper 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour     English  walnuts 
Salt,  paprika  and  Tabasco 

Melt   butter   in   saucepan,    add   cheese.     When 
cheese  is  partly  melted  put  in  flour  and  cook  until 
smooth.    Season  and  add  milk  slowly,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thoroughly  blended.    Butter  a  baking- 
ii6 


VEGETABLES 


dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  chop- 
ped pepper,  alternating  potatoes  and  pepper  until 
dish  is  full.  Pour  over  this  the  cheese  sauce.  Sprin- 
kle with  the  chopped  walnuts  and  bits  of  butter. 
Brown  and  serve  hot.  The  Spanish  call  this  dish 
potatoes  con  queso.  It  is  a  Spanish  receipt. 
Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 
Cut  any  cold  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  lengthwise. 
Season  with  a  little  salt,  dip  in  melted  butter,  roll 
lightly  in  sugar,  and  brown  in  oven. 

Sweet- Potato  Croquettes 

Put  through  a  meat  grinder,  using  the  finest 
cutter,  enough  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  to  make 
one  and  one-half  cups.  Add  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter,  half  a  tablespoonful  brown  sugar, 
beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  salt,  pepper,  cinnamon,  and 
mace  to  taste.  Mix  well  together,  make  into  small 
croquettes,  roll  in  fine  crumbs,  in  egg,  and  in  crumbs 
again.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Creamed  Spinach  in  Carrot  Cups 

Chop  any  cold  cooked  spinach  very  fine.  Moisten 
with  cream  or  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68)  and 
heat.  Cut  medium-sized  carrots  to  form  cups 
and  then  scrape.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.  Fill  with  the  creamed  spinach  and 
serve  hot. 

Spinach  Croquettes  (with  Fish) 
I  cup  spinach  J     cup  grated  bread- 

I  cup  cold  flaked  fish  crumbs 

I  tablespoonful  milk       i^  tablespoonfuls 
I  tablespoonful  water-  lemon-juice 

cress,    chopped         Pepper  and  salt 
fine 

117 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Moisten  spinach  with  milk.  Add  lemon- juice, 
cress,  and  seasoning  to  fish.  Mix  all  together  with 
bread-crumbs.  Form  into  croquettes,  roll  in 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs.  Fry- 
in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  egg  sauce  (see  page  69). 
This  quantity  will  make  six. 

Spinach  with  Baked  Eggs 

Form  any  cold,  well-seasoned  spinach  into  a  neat 
border  on  rounds  of  buttered  toast.  A  full  table- 
spoonful  will  answer  for  each  piece  of  toast.  Break 
an  egg  in  the  center  of  each  round,  season,  and 
sprinkle  very  lightly  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake 
in  oven  until  the  eggs  are  "set." 

Squash  Pudding 

i§   cups   cooked    and  2  eggs 

strained  squash  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

J   teaspoonful   cinna-  ij  cups  milk 

men  Grated  rind  of  half  a 

^  cup  sugar  lemon 

Gradually  add  the  milk  to  the  strained  squash, 
then  the  sugar,  salt,  seasoning,  slightly  beaten 
eggs,  and  grated  lemon-peel.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
until  thickened  like  custard.     Serve  very  cold. 


Vegetable  Salads 

These  may  be  made  of  almost  all  kinds  of  cold 

cooked  vegetables,  using   them  separately  or   in 

combination.     Bits  of  meat  or  fish  may  be  added, 

or  a  few  chopped  nuts,  if  at  hand.     Lettuce  or 

118 


VEGETABLES 


other  salad  leaves  may  or  may  not  be  used,  as 
convenient.  The  materials  should  be  carefully 
prepared,  and  the  salad  chilled  before  serving.  A 
better  flavor  is  given  to  many  salads  by  mixing  the 
materials  with  a  French  dressing  a  short  time  be- 
fore the  mayonnaise  is  added,  which  is  usually  just 
before  the  salad  is  ready  for  the  table. 

Various  garnishes  are  used,  as  olives,  beets 
fresh  or  pickled,  capers,  hard-cooked  eggs,  pickled 
eggs,  buds  and  leaves  of  nasturtiums,  pickles,  etc. 
The  salad-maker  should  be  artistic  as  well  as  in- 
genious, for  harmony  in  color  is  essential.  Over- 
crowding should  be  avoided.  If  the  salad  be  ser- 
ved on  a  platter,  leave  a  wide  margin. 

Kidney-Bean  Salad 

Combine  one  cup  of  cooked  kidney-beans  with 
one  cup  of  crisp,  tender  summer  cabbage,  shredded. 
Add  one  green  sweet  pepper,  first  removing  the 
seeds  and  shredding  it  fine.  Cover  with  French 
dressing  No.  i  (see  page  73),  or  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing (see  page  74)  and  serve  at  once. 

Salad  of  Greens 

Left-over  spinach  or  greens  of  any  kind  may  be 
molded  in  small  cups  and  served  cold  with  French 
or  mayonnaise  dressing.  The  little  balls  of  cottage 
cheese  (see  page  179)  are  good  with  this. 

Mixed  Salad  (Italian) 

Put  lettuce  leaves  into  a  deep  bowl,  add  a  little 
cauliflower,  two  or  three  sardines,  and  two  large 
potatoes  cut  in  pieces.  Mix  well  together,  add 
salt,  vinegar,  and  oil,  and  garnish  with  hard-cooked 

J19 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Potato  Salad 

See  page  113. 

Hot  Potato  Salad 

2    cups    cold    potato  i  tablespoonful     Tar- 
cubes  ragon  vinegar 

2  tablespoonfuls  2  tablespoonfuls  cream 

bacon,  cut  fine  i  teaspoonful  scraped 

I  tablespoonful  cider  onion 

vinegar  Parsley 

Cook  bacon,  add  onion,  then  potatoes,  vinegar, 
cream,  and  one  full  teaspoonful  minced  parsley. 
Heat  through  and  serve.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley.  A  little  chopped  cooked  beet  is  an  addi- 
tion to  this  salad. 

Rice,  Beet,  and  Celery  Salad 

Use  equal  quantities  of  cooked  rice  and  cooted 
beets  cut  into  cubes,  and  as  much  celery  (cut  very 
fine)  as  will  equal  the  quantity  of  rice  and  beets 
together.  Season.  Serve  with  cooked  salad  dress- 
ing (see  page  75),  and  garnish  with  celery  tips 
and  leaves. 

Bermuda -Onicn  and  Oraiige  Salad 

■  For  the  individual  salad  use  one  slice  of  Ber- 
muda onion  and  two  of  orange.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  French  dressing. 

Green  Pea  Salad 

Drain  all  liquid  from  a  cup  and  a  half  of  well- 
seasoned    left-over    green    peas    and    chill    them. 
When  ready  to  prepare  the  salad,  mix  with  the  peas 
120 


VEGETABLES 


half  a  cup  of  young,  tender  carrot,  grated  raw,  re- 
serving a  little  to  garnish  the  top.  Cover  with 
mayonnaise  (see  page  74),  or  cooked  salad  dress- 
ing (see  page  75),  and  serve  at  once  on  crisp, 
white  lettuce  leaves. 

Green-Pea  Salad  in  Egg  Cases 

Cut  three  or  four  hard-cooked  eggs  lengthwise 
and  remove  the  yolks  neatly.  Crumble  them  into 
rather  large  pieces,  seasofi  with  salt,  paprika,  and 
toss  them  lightly  about  in  melted  butter.  Mix 
with  a  cup  of  well-seasoned  cold  peas.  Sprinkle 
a  little  salt  and  white  pepper  on  the  whites,  put 
a  spoonful  of  the  peas  in  each,  and  cover  with 
mayonnaise  (see  page  74).  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves. 

Spinach  Salad 

By  the  addition  of  a  few  hard-cooked  eggs  a 
cup  of  left-over  creamed  spinach  can  be  made  into 
an  attractive  luncheon  salad.  The  spinach  must 
be  chopped  very  fine  and  moistened  with  a  little 
white  sauce  No.  4  (see  page  68).  Form  into  balls 
the  size  of  walnuts.  Set  away  to  chill.  When 
ready  to  serve,  slice  rather  thick  as  many  hard- 
cooked  eggs  as  needed;  season  them  with  salt  and 
paprika.  Mix  them  with  the  spinach-balls  and 
pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  all.  Serve  on  heart 
lettuce  leaves. 

Winter  Salad 

Lettuce  leaves  Neufchatel   or  cream 

Cooked  carrots  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper  Mayonnaise  dressing 

121 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Chop  carrots  fine,  season  and  sprinkle  over 
lettuce ;  make  cheese  into  balls,  and  add  to  salad. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  (see  page  74). 


Tomatoes  Sauted,  with  Sauce 

6  large  slices  tomato     ^  cup  milk 
J  cup  flour  I  tablespoonful  butter 

Salt  and  pepper 

(Any  left-over  sliced  raw  tomatoes,  if  firm  and 
solid,  may  be  kept  covered  with  cold  water  for 
use  next  day.) 

Dry  the  slices  of  tomato  if  they  have  been  in 
water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge 
both  sides  well  with  flour.  Melt  butter  in  pan; 
when  hot  put  in  tomato,  browning  well  on  one 
side  before  turning.  When  both  sides  are  brown 
remove  to  a  hot  platter.  Gradually  add  milk  to 
flour  and  butter  in  the  pan,  stirring  well.  Pour 
this  sauce  around  the  tomatoes  and  serve. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

1    cup  stewed    toma-     2  cups  scalded  milk 

toes,  strained  2  tablespoonfuls  but- 

I  teaspoonful  soda  ter 

I  teaspoonful  sugar         2  talDlespoonfuls  flour 
Paprika  J  teaspoonful  salt 

Heat  the  tomatoes  and  add  soda.  Cook  butter 
and  flour  together,  add  seasoning,  and  pour  in  grad- 
ually the  hot  tomato.  Let  this  boil  up.  Take 
from  intense  heat,  and  when  below  the  boiling- 
point  add  the  hot  milk  slowly,  stirring  constantly. 
Season  more  highly  if  desired.  After  the  addition 
of  the  milk  the  soup  should  be  kept  hot,  but  must 
122 


VEGETABLES 


not  boil.      Serve  with  crisp  crackers,  croutons  (see 
page  149),  or  dried  bread. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

To  every  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  scraped  onion  and  more  seasoning  if 
necessary.  Season  some  dried  and  rolled  bread- 
crumbs and  mix  part  of  them  with  melted  butter 
in  the  proportion  of  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  to 
half  a  cup  of  crumbs.  Butter  small  ramekins  or 
large  dish,  sprinkle  a  layer  of  seasoned  crumbs  on 
the  bottom,  pour  in  tomato,  and  spread  buttered 
crumbs  over  the  top.  Dot  over  with  more  butter 
if  desired.  Bake  in  hot  oven  about  thirty-five 
minutes,  browning  crumbs  well  on  top.  A  mix- 
ture of  bread  and  cracker  crumbs  may  be  used. 

Tomatoes  with  Scrambled  Eggs 

A  few  spoonfuls  of  stewed  tomato  may  be  mixed 
with  eggs  and  scrambled.  Beat  eggs  slightly  with 
a  fork,  season,  and  mix  with  tomato.  Melt  in  hot 
omelet-pan  half  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pour  in 
eggs  and  tomato,  and  cook  lightly,  holding  pan  away 
from  the  intense  heat.  Pour  over  prepared  toast  or 
crisp  triscuit.  A  full  tablespoonful  of  tomato  for 
every  two  eggs  is  a  good  proportion,  but  more  may 
be  used. 

Jellied  Tomato  Salad 

I  tablespoonful  gela-     Seasonings 

tine  Lettuce  leaves 

I I  cups  strained  stew-     Mayonnaise    dressing 

ed  tomatoes 

Season  stewed  tomatoes  more  highly  by  cook- 
9  123 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

ing  with  them  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  small  slice  onion, 
two  cloves,  one  or  two  stalks  celery,  sprig  of  pars- 
ley, few  peppercorns,  or  little  paprika,  and  salt 
if  necessary.  Add  a  little  water.  Boil  ten  minutes. 
Soak  gelatine  in  one-foiirth  cup  cold  water.  When 
soft,  dissolve  with  hot  strained  tomato.  (If  to- 
mato is  very  acid,  add  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of 
soda.)  Pour  into  small  cups  or  molds  wet  with 
cold  water.  When  tomato  is  stiffened  turn  out  on 
lettuce  leaves.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  celery  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise.  Half  this  quantity  will 
make  four  small  molds.  Canned  tomatoes  may 
be  used. 

Tomato  Salad  (with  Cereal  and  Fish) 

Combine  in  sandwich  fashion  a  thin  slice  of  cold 
farina  or  cream  of  wheat,  molded  in  small,  round 
tins,  with  two  slices  raw  tomato.  Dispose  sand- 
wich on  lettuce,  place  on  each  side  a  small  sardine, 
and  on  top  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  (see  page  74). 

Tomato  Toast    . 

Add  a  few  bits  of  celery  to  a  cup  or  two  of  cold 
stewed  tomatoes,  and  cook  them  down  until  well 
thickened.  Prepare  a  platter  of  toast,  and  butter 
it.  Scald  a  cup  of  cream,  but  do  not  boil.  When 
all  is  ready  add  a  very  little  soda  to  the  tomatoes, 
then  the  cream,  pour  directly  over  the  toast  and 
serve. 

Home-made  Tomato  Paste 

When  tomatoes  are  very  plentiful,  and  the  supply 
is  greater  than  the  immediate  need,  it  is  a  good  plan 
to  make  a  paste,  which  will  keep  for  some  time  in  a 
124 


VEGETABLES 


cool  place.  Wash  and  scald  the  tomatoes.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  boil  until  thick.  Put  in 
glass  jars.  This  will  be  found  very  useful  in 
flavoring  soups  and  sauces. 

Tomato  and  Cheese  Toast 

Left-over  slices  of  raw  tomatoes  may  be  ac- 
ceptably utilized  by  placing  one  slice  each  on  nicely 
browned  and  buttered  toast  circles.  Season  well 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  bits  of  butter.  Cover  with 
grated  cheese  and  heat  in  oven  until  cheese  is 
melted. 

Cream  of  Turnip  and  Potato  Soup 

I  cup    mashed    pota-     {  cup  mashed  turnip, 

toes  white  or  yellow 

3  cups  scalded  milk  J  teaspoonful  salt 

I  tablespoonful  flour  Few  grains  paprika 

I  tablespoonful  butter 

Pour  the  scalded  milk  over  the  mashed  potatoes 
and  turnips  and  strain  through  a  fine  wire  sieve. 
Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  until 
bubbling,  then  add  the  hot  milk  mixture  and  cook 
until  smooth  and  thickened.  Serve  very  hot  with 
rye-bread  croutons.  If  the  soup  is  too  thick  a 
little  more  hot  milk  may  be  added. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER  CEREAU5 


Most  cereals  are  improved  by  long,  slow  cook- 
ing. This  is  emphatically  true  of  hominy,  corn- 
meal,  and  oatmeal,  any  one  of  which  may  be  re- 
heated to  advantage.  It  is  wise,  therefore,  to 
plan  always  for  a  remainder  when  cooking  them. 
They  are  a  comparatively  cheap  food,  and  when 
so  cooked  as  to  yield  their  full  nutritive  value,  they 
form  an  important  part  of  the  dietary.  They 
lend  themselves  easily  to  many  transformations, 
and  so  give  variety  to  the  daily  menu. 

Corn  meal  Circles 

Do  not  allow  left-over  cornmeal  mush  to  get  per- 
fectly cold  before  molding  it.  Beat  it  well,  so  that 
it  will  be  perfectly  smooth,  and  pour  it  into  baking- 
powder  tins,  or  half  an  inch  deep  in  a  fiat  pan,  first 
moistening  the  tin  with  cold  water.  When  ready 
to  use  cut  in  circles  half  an  inch  thick.  If  molded 
in  a  flat  sheet  use  a  biscuit  cutter.  Roll  in  milk, 
then  very  lightly  in  flour.  Heat  a  little  butter  or 
bacon  fat  on  a  baking-tin  until  it  bubbles,  lay  the 
circles  on  this',  and  brown  lightly  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
These  make  a  good  garnish  for  a  meat  dish,  or  may 
be  served  with  maple  syrup  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 
131 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Cereal  Molded  with  Fruit 

Take  cream  of  wheat  or  wheatena  left  from 
breakfast.  If  very  stiff  add  a  little  milk  or  water 
and  stir  into  it  a  few  scalded  cut-up  dates  or  figs. 
Pour  into  bowl  or  mold  and  serve  cold  as  a  dessert 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

Cereal  with  Tomato  Salad 

See  Tomato  Salad,  page  124. 

Cereal  in  Griddle  Cakes 

See  Sour-Milk  Griddle  Cakes,  page  150. 

Farina  Sponge 

Stir  into  two  cups  of  cooked  farina  the  stiffly- 
beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  one  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Mold  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or 
soft  custard.  If  farina  has  been  cooked  very 
stiff,  add  a  little  hot  milk  or  water,  blending  well. 

Farina  with  Baked  Apples 

Wash  four  or  five  good  baking  apples,  and  with 
a  corer  remove  all  seeds  and  cores.  Place  them  on 
an  agate  baking-pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water 
on  the  bottom.  Fill  the  centers  with  any  left-over 
farina  or  cream  of  wheat,  and  put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  on  top  of  each.  Sprinkle  sugar  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon-juice  over  all  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  apples  are  soft.  Serve  hot  for 
breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Farina  Pancakes 

I  cup  sweet  milk  i  cup  cooked  farina 

1  cup  flour  I  egg 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-    J  teaspoonful  salt 

powder 

132 


CEREALS 


Beat  the  egg  and  farina  together  until  light  and 
smooth,  and  stir  in  the  milk.  Sift  the  floiir  and 
salt  together  and  add  to  the  farina  mixture.  When 
ready  to  bake  the  cakes,  stir  in  the  baking-powder 
and  beat  the  batter  vigorously.  These  cakes  will 
be  found  much  more  digestible  than  those  made 
entirely  of  raw  flour. 

Hominy  and  Cheese  Souffle 

I  cup  cooked  hominy      i  cup  grated  cheese 
J  cup  hot  milk  2  eggs 

Grated  rind  of  half  a     Salt,  paprika 
lemon 

With  a  fork  beat  up  the  cold  hominy  and  the 
hot  milk  until  very  smooth.  Add  seasonings  and 
grated  cheese.  Separate  the  eggs  and  beat  the 
yolks  until  thick  and  light,  and  stir  into  the  mix- 
ture. Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pour 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  firm  in  center — about  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
at  once.  This  may  also  be  cooked  satisfactorily  in 
a  chafing-dish. 

Hominy  Balls 

I  cup  cooked  hominy     i  egg  yolk 
Slight  grating  nutmeg     Salt  as  needed 

Mix  all  well  together  and  form  into  smooth  balls 
the  size  of  large  English  walnuts.  If  the  hominy 
is  very  stiff  it  should  be  beaten  up  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  milk  before  the  other  things  are 
added.  Roll  the  balls  in  sifted  white  bread- 
crumbs, then  in  slightly  beaten  egg-white,  and 
again  in  crumbs.  Brown  lightly  in  deep,  hot  fat. 
This  amount  will  make  six  balls. 

133 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Hominy  with  Bacon 

Mold  two  cups  of  cooked  hominy  in  a  low  dish 
of  suitable  size,  first  rinsing  the  dish  with  cold 
water.  When  ready  to  use  turn  it  out  on  a  baking- 
dish  that  can  be  sent  to  the  table.  Cover  the 
hominy  with  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  cook  in  a 
very  hot  oven  until  the  bacon  is  crisp.  Pour  off 
the  superfluous  fat,  surround  with  a  border  of 
poached  eggs,  and  serve  at  once. 

Hominy  Pudding 

J  cup  boiled  hominy     i  tablespoonful  melt- 

1  cup  milk  ed  butter 

2  teaspoonfuls  sugar       J  teaspoonful  salt 

2  eggs 

Break  the  hominy  apart  with  a  fork  and  add  the 
milk  gradually  to  it.  Stir  in  the  butter,  salt, 
sugar,  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Then  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  an  earthen  dish 
about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  as  a  vegetable  with 
veal. 

Hominy  Griddle  Cakes 

See  Wheatena  Griddle  Cakes,  page  143. 

Southern  Corn  Cakes 

I    cup  boiled  hominy      |  cup  milk,  warm,  but 

1  tablespoonful   but-  not  hot 

ter  i  teaspoonful  salt 

2  eggs  I  cup  cornmeal 

Add  the  warm  milk  to  the  hominy  slowly,  beat- 
ing until  the  mixture  is  very  smooth,  then  stir  in 
the  butter,  salt,  well-beaten  eggs,  and  cornmeal. 
The  batter  should  look  like  thick  cream.  If  too 
thick  add  a  little  more  milk,  or  if  too  thin  a  little 
134 


CEREALS 


more  commeal.  Bake  in  thin  sheets  in  well- 
buttered  fiat  pans  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Cut  into  suitable-sized  pieces  before  serving. 

Oatmeal  Molded  with  Raisins 

Cover  three  tablespoonfuls  of  good  raisins  with 
rapidly  boiling  water  and  let  stand  just  long 
enough  to  swell  out  and  soften.  Remove  the 
seeds  and  cut  in  two.  Stir  these  into  two  cups  of 
cooked  oatmeal  while  still  warm,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  grains  of  oatmeal.  Moisten  any 
small  cups  or  jelly-glasses  with  cold  water,  half  fill 
with  the  mixture,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place. 
Serve  with  cream  or  rich  milk. 

Oatmeal  Gruel 

Boil  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  well-cooked  oatmeal 
in  one  cup  of  boiling  water  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
the  grains  are  very  soft.  Add  an  equal  amount  of 
milk,  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg. 
A  little  cream  is  an  improvement.  It  may  be 
served  strained  or  unstrained,  as  desired. 

Browned  Oatmeal 

Cut  cold  oatmeal  into  slices.  Beat  up  one  egg 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  dip  the  oat- 
meal in  this.  Heat  a  little  bacon  fat  to  bubbling 
in  a  frying-pan  and  carefully  brown  the  slices  in  it. 

Oatmeal  Bread 

I  cup  cooked   oat-     J  cup  lukewarm  milk 
meal  Scant     ^     cup     luke- 

I  tablespoonful  sugar  warm  water 

I  tablespoonful  butter     §  yeast-cake 
J  teaspoonful  salt  About  4  cups  flour 

or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  drop  battq: 

IJ5 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Mix  the  oatmeal,  sugar,  salt,  butter,  and  luke- 
warm milk  together.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the 
luke-warm  water  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Stir  in 
the  flour  gradually,  beating  it  well.  The  amount 
of  flour  necessary  will  be  determined  by  the  soft- 
ness of  the  oatmeal.  Let  rise.  This  will  make  one 
loaf. 

Rice  with  Apples 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  three  or  four  medium- 
sized,  tart  apples.  Cook  them  carefully  in  a  syrup 
made  of  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  one  slice  of  lemon,  being  careful  to  keep 
the  apples  whole.  While  they  are  cooking  put  from 
one  to  two  cups  of  cold  cooked  rice  in  a  double 
boiler.  Add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one 
tablespoonful  sweet  cream  to  each  cup  of  rice, 
stirring  them  in  lightly  with  a  fork.  Cover  and 
let  heat  thoroughly.  Pile  the  rice  in  the  center 
oi  a  glass  dish  and  place  the  apples  as  a  border 
around  it.  Pour  the  remaining  syrup  over  all  and 
garnish  with  a  few  candied  cherries.  This  can  be 
served  cold  if  desired. 

Rice  with  Bananas 

Peel  and  scrape  three  well-ripened  bananas  and 
mash  them  with  a  fork  to  a  smooth,  creamy  pulp, 
adding  a  very  few  drops  of  lemon- juice.  Stir  this 
lightly  into  one  cup  of  cold  cooked  rice  and  serve 
with  or  without  sweetened  cream.  This  is  a 
nutritious  dish,  and  attractive  to  children.  Ba- 
nanas have  a  much  better  flavor  if  purchased  a 
little  green,  and  if  each  one  is  then  wrapped  care- 
fully in  waxed  paper,  put  in  a  clean,  covered  box 
136 


CEREALS 


with  a  little  excelsior,  and  ripened  in  a  dry,  warm 
place. 

Cheesed  Rice 
See  pages  165-66. 

Rice  in  Cheese  Shells 

See  Creamed  Cabbage  in  Cheese  Shells,  page  169. 

Rice  with  Tomatoes  No.  1 

Add  one  tablespoonful  of  bacon  fat  to  each  cup 
of  cold  cooked  rice  used,  and  put  a  layer  of  it 
in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish.  Cover  with  slices 
of  raw,  peeled  tomatoes,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  a  few  bits  of  crushed  bacon,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  shredded  green  sweet  pepper.  Repeat 
until  the  dish  is  filled,  reserving  a  little  rice  to 
cover  the  top.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  the  toma- 
toes are  tender,  covering  the  dish  for  the  first  ten 
minutes. 

Rice  with  Tomatoes  No.  2 

Season  about  a  cup  and  a  half  of  stewed  toma- 
toes extra  well,  adding  a  little  onion-juice  if  liked. 
They  should  be  stewed  down  thick,  and  not  watery. 
Use  an  equal  amount  of  tomatoes  and  cold  rice. 
Arrange  in  layers  in  a  baking-dish  and  sprinkle  each 
layer  of  rice  with  grated  cheese  before  adding  the 
tomatoes.  Finish  with  rice  and  cheese  on  top. 
Heat  in  oven  just  long  enough  for  the  cheese  to 
melt. 

Rice  Omelet 

1  small  cup  cold  rice       3  eggs 

2  tablespoonfuls  milk     4  tablespoonfuls  cur- 
I  tablespoonful  butter  rant  jelly 

I  scant  teaspoonful  salt 

137 


THE    COOK    BOOK    O'F    LEFT-OVERS 

Beat  the  eggs  well  without  separating,  add  rice, 
milk,  and  salt,  stirring  them  in  lightly.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  smooth  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  pour 
in  the  omelet.  As  it  cooks,  lift  carefully  from  one 
side  to  let  the  uncooked  part  run  under.  When 
all  is  creamy,  spread  with  the  jelly  and  fold.  Serve 
on  a  hot  platter.  This  makes  a  good  luncheon 
dish. 

Rice  Muffins 

^  cup  cooked  rice  2  cups  flour 

I  cup  sweet  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

4  tablespoonfuls  melt-  i  egg 

ed  butter  i     scant    teaspoonful 
4  teaspoonfuls  baking-  salt 

powder 

Sift  together  the  sugar,  salt,  baking-powder,  and 
flour.  Beat  the  egg  light,  stir  in  the  rice  and 
milk,  and  add  the  dry  materials.  Beat  in  the 
butter  last.  Pour  into  warm,  greased  muffin-pans 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Rice  Soup  with  Vegetables 

When  boiling  rice  in  a  quantity  of  water,  as 
many  people  prefer  to  do,  do  not  throw  the  water 
away.  Drain  it  into  a  saucepan,  and  add  a  few 
diced  carrots,  a  bit  of  celery  tops  and  green  onion,  . 
a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  any  other  tender  greens  at 
hand.  Season  with  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper. 
Cover  and  simmer  gently  until  the  vegetables  are 
done.  More  water  may  be  added  as  needed,  also 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  cooked  peas,  or  string-beans 
cut  in  thin  strips.  This  makes  a  savory  and 
nutritious  dish.     Another  use  for  such  water  is  to 

138 


CEREALS 


let  simmer  in  it  a  cup  of  good  breakfast  hash  with 
just  enough  vegetables  added  to  give  it  flavor. 

German  Rice  Pudding 

2  cups  cold  boiled  rice     \  teaspoonful  vanilla 
^  cup  cream  i    cup   apple  sauce 

Sweeten  the  cream  as  liked,  add  the  vanilla  and 
a  very  little  salt,  and  whip  it.  Mix  this  with  the 
rice  and  place  in  a  pudding-dish  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  apple  sauce,  having  rice  on  top.  Serve 
cold. 

Rice  Pudding  with  Stewed  Fruit 

Take  two  cups  of  rice  pudding  that  has  become 
very  stiff  when  cold,  and  mix  with  it  a  cup  of 
stewed  and  chopped  tart  prunes.  Pile  it  lightly 
in  a  glass  dish  and  serve  it  with  the  prune-juice, 
sweetened  and  thickened  with  a  little  corn-starch. 
Other  fruits  than  prunes  may  be  used. 

Risotto 

Cut  a  small  white  onion  into  pieces  and  cook  in 
butter  until  golden  brown.  Add  two  cups  of 
cooked  rice,  one  cup  of  chicken  stock,  soup  or 
gravy,  and  cook  until  rice  has  taken  up  the  liquid. 
Sprinkle  one  or  two  fidl  tablespoonfuls  grated 
cheese  into  rice,  add  pepper,  salt,  piece  of  butter, 
and  chopped  giblets  if  they  are  at  hand. 

Rice  Custard  No.  1   (very  simple) 

Cook  one  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  and  one-half 
cup  of  milk  in  double  boiler  until  rice  is  very  soft. 
Beat  one  egg  light  with  one  tablespoonf  ul  sugar  and 
a  sprinkling  of  salt.     Pour  hot  rice  and  milk  grad- 

10  139 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

ually  over  egg  mixture,  stirring  well.  Transfer  to 
dish  in  which  custard  is  to  be  served.  Grate  nut- 
meg over  top.     Serve  very  cold. 

Rice  Custard  No.  2 

Combine  left-over  soft  custard  with  cooked  rice, 
using  at  least  twice  as  much  custard  as  rice.  If 
whites  of  eggs  are  at  hand,  beat  up  a  meringue, 
using  one  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  to  each 
stiffly  beaten  white.  Add  few  drops  vanilla.  Pile 
on  top  of  custard  and  garnish  with  bits  of  jelly. 

Baked  Rice  Pudding 

1  cup  cooked  rice  i  tablespoonful  butter 
I J  cups  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

2  eggs  Vanilla  or  nutmeg 
J  teaspoonful  salt  Seeded  raisins 

Reheat  rice,  add  melted  butter,  beaten  eggs  mixed 
with  milk,  and  all  other  ingredients  except  flavor- 
ing. Cook  five  minutes  in  double  boilei ,  add  flavor- 
ing, put  into  buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  custard  is  "set."  Serve 
warm  or  cold,  plain  or  with  preserve  or  jelly. 

To  Freshen  up  Rice  or  Bread  Puddings 

Remove  crust  from  yesterday's  pudding  and  turn 
out  into  smaller  dish.  Add  hot  milk,  and  (to  a 
bread  pudding)  fresh  crumbs  for  top,  dotted  over 
with  butter.  Bake  again.  Rice  pudding  may  be 
reheated  with  hot  milk,  or  if  to  be  served  cold, 
covered  with  a  meringue  flavored  with  lemon-juice 
and  browned. 

140 


CEREALS 


Lincoln  Pudding 

Mix  two  cups  of  well-cooked  rice  with  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
a  little  salt,  and  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake  half 
an  hour.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add 
gradually  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Pile  meringue  on  pudding 
and  bake  twelve  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

I  cup  cold  boiled  rice      i  tablespoonful  melt- 

f  cup  milk  ed  butter 

I  teaspoonful  baking-      i  teaspoonful  sugar 

powder  \  teaspoonful  salt 

About     i     cup    flour     i  egg,  well  beaten 

(amount  may  vary) 

Steam  the  cooked  rice  until  very  soft  in  part  of 
the  milk,  using  one-fourth  cup.  Add  remainder 
of  milk  and  other  ingredients,  beating  well.  Bake 
on  hot  griddle.     This  amount  will  make  a  plateful. 

Rice  Pudding  (with  Corn-starch) 

I  cup  boiled  rice  2  eggs 

3  cups  milk  2  tablespoonfuls  com- 
l  cup  sugar  starch 

Flavoring  Little  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  mix  with  rice,  sugar,  and 
salt.  Mix  corn-starch  with  a  little  of  the  milk. 
Heat  remainder,  stir  blended  corn-starch  into  it 
and  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Put 
into  double  boiler  and  stir  rice  mixture  into  it. 
Cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  reniove  from  fire, 
t4t 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

add  flavoring  (lemon  or  vanilla),  and  pour  into 
dish.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
powdered  sugar,  spread  over  top,  and  place  dish  in 
oven  to  brown  meringue. 


Sweet  Rice  Croquettes 

1  cup  rice,  cooked  very       Yolk  of  i  egg 

soft  I  teaspoonful  salt 

2  teaspoonfuls   melted       Crumbs  and  eggs 

butter  for  "breading" 

I  teaspoonful  sugar  Grated  nutmeg  to 

Jelly  taste 

Mix  butter,  sugar,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  beaten 
yolk  of  egg  with  the  rice,  form  into  croquettes  and 
place  a  bit  of  jelly  in  the  center  of  each,  closing  it 
well  in  with  rice.  Roll  in  fine  sifted  bread  or 
cracker-crumbs,  then  in  egg  (one  tablespoonfid  of 
water  beaten  with  the  egg),  and  in  crumbs  again. 
Fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce  or  pow- 
dered sugar  and  cream. 

Lemon  Sauce  No.  1 

I  cup  white  sugar  i  tablespoonful  flour, 
I  egg  blended  in  2  table- 
Few  grains  salt  spoonfuls    cold 
I  cup  boiling  water  water 
Juice  of  i  lemon 

Beat  sugar  and  well-beaten  egg  together.     Stir 
blended  flour  into  boiling  water,  let  boil  up  well, 
and  pour  it  over  the  egg  and  sugar,  beating  with 
Dov^r  egg-beater.    Add  the  lemon, 
Ma 


CEREALS 


Wheatena  Griddle  Cakes 

2  cups  cooked  wheat-  J  cup  cold  water 

ena  J  teaspoonful  baking- 

2  eggs  powder 
I  teaspoonful  salt  Flour 

Thin  the  cereal  with  water,  add  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  about  a  half  cup  flour  sifted  together  with 
baking-powder  and  salt.  Bake  a  trial  cake  on 
griddle  to  determine  exact  amount  of  flour  needed. 
Hominy  may  be  used  instead  of,  or  in  combination 
with,  wheatena. 

Cereal  Muffins 

I J  cups  flour  I  cup  milk 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking-    i  egg 

powder  i  tablespoonful  butter 

I  cup    wheatena    or       i  tablespoonful  sugar 
other  cereal  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

Sift  flour,  measure  it,  and  sift  again  with  baking- 
powder,  salt,  and  sugar.  Break  up  the  wheatena 
and  thin  carefully  with  milk;  beat  egg  and  add  to 
it,  stirring  all  into  the  dry  materials.  Add  the 
butter  melted,  and  put  into  buttered  muffin- tins. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 
Other  cereals  may  be  used  in  the  same  proportion. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


:V 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


V 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH   LEFT-OVER  BREAD 


The  uses  for  stale  bread  are  so  many  and  varied 
that  it  is  obviously  unwise  to  waste  a  particle. 
The  bread-box  requires  constant  supervision  and 
care,  especially  in  summer,  when  mold  forms  so 
quickly.  It  should  be  examined  daily  in  hot 
weather,  and  in  all  seasons  scalded  and  aired  well 
before  each  fresh  baking  of  bread.  Small  bits  of 
bread  should  be  slowly  dried  in  the  oven  until 
crisp  and  brittle,  then  ground  in  the  meat-chopper 
or  rolled,  and  kept  on  hand  in  a  glass  jar  for 
breading  articles  to  be  fried,  for  scallops,  croquettes, 
dry  stuffings,  etc.  The  larger  dried  pieces,  if  cut 
into  presentable  shapes,  are  an  excellent  substitute 
for  crackers  or  croutons  with  soup,  and  are  often 
preferred  to  fresh  bread.  Small  pieces  and  broken 
slices  of  stale  bread  may  be  used  for  moist  stuffings 
for  meat  and  poultry,  for  griddle-cakes,  steamed 
bread,  bread  omelet,  toast  points,  puddings  of 
different  sorts,  and  for  other  uses  which  will  readily 
'suggest  themselves. 

Croutons 

Cut  stale  slices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick.  Trim 
off  crusts  (which  may  be  set  aside  and  used  for 
149 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

puddings),  butter  the  slices,  and  cut  into  half-inch 
cubes.  Place  on  shallow  pan  and  brown  in  a  hot 
oven,  turning  them  so  that  they  may  not  burn. 
Serve  with  soup. 

Steamed  Bread 

The  very  dry,  hard  pieces  may  be  used  in  this 
way:  Heat  a  griddle  hot,  butter  it  well,  dip  the 
pieces  of  bread  quickly  into  hot  salted  water,  and 
brown  on  both  sides  on  the  griddle.  Eat  with 
butter  or  with  syrup. 

To  Freshen  Dry  Rolls  or  a  Loaf  of  Dry  Bread 

Dip  them  quickly  into  cold  water,  drain,  and 
heat  in  oven. 

Bread  Griddle-cakes  (with  Sour  Milk) 

Use  equal  quantities  of  sour  milk  and  small, 
broken  pieces  of  bread.  Mix  and  let  stand,  cov- 
ered, over  one  or  two  nights.  Bits  of  rice  may  be 
added  to  this  mixture  if  desired.  In  warm  weather 
a  little  salt  may  be  put  with  it.  (In  this  case  omit 
adding  salt  later.)  When  ready  to  use,  put  through 
colander.  For  each  pint  of  mixture  use  one  egg,  one 
teaspoonfiil  soda,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  about  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
sifted  flour.  It  is  always  wise  to  bake  a  small  cake 
first,  that  any  lack  in  ingredients  may  be  remedied 
at  once.  An  extra  yolk  or  small  amount  of  un- 
cooked egg  may  be  added  if  at  hand.  Bake  on 
hot  griddle  and  serve  with  syrup. 

Syrup 

3§  cups  light- brown     2  cups  cold  water 
sugar 

150 


BREAD 


Cook  sugar  and  water  together,  stirring  until 
sugar  is  melted.  Skim  well  while  boiling.  Boil 
for  about  thirty  minutes,  or  until  a  little  of  the 
liquid  put  on  cold  saucer  will  thicken.  Syrup  may 
be  flavored  with  maple,  using  part  maple  sugar. 

Brewis   (from  Boston  Brown  Bread) 

Take  dry  Boston  brown  bread  and  break  into 
small  pieces,  having  two  cupfuls.  Put  into  sauce- 
pan, add  milk  enough  to  cover  (one  pint  or  more). 
Let  soak  awhile  on  back  of  stove;  when  all  is  soft 
draw  saucepan  forward  and  let  simmer  until  milk 
is  absorbed.  Add  a  little  salt  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter.     Serve  with  cream. 

Boston-Brown-Bread  Toast 

Dry  slightly  in  the  oven  the  needed  number  of 
slices  of  brown  bread  and  toast  them  carefully  over 
a  slow  fire.  Lay  them  on  a  warm  platter,  butter, 
and  pour  over  them  white  sauce  No.  i  (see  page  67), 
to  which  one  or  two  spoonfuls  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  ham  have  been  added.     Serve  very  hot. 

Brown-Bread  Relish 

Put  a  little  bacon  fat  in  a  frying-pan.  When  it 
is  hot  add  any  cut  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  and 
brown  carefully.  Slip  a  poached  egg  on  each  slice 
and  serve  hot. 

Bird's-nest  Toast  (for  an  Invalid) 

Cut  a  slice  of  stale  bread  in  a  large  circle.  Toast 
it  carefidly  over  a  slow  fire  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Dip  the  edges  very  quickly  in  hot  salted  water  and 
put  it  on  a  hot  baking-tin,  where  it  will  keep  warm, 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Butter  it  if  butter  is  allowed.  Separate  a  perfectly 
fresh  egg.  Add  a  little  salt  to  the  white  and  beat 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Pile  this  on  the  toast,  make  a 
depression  in  the  center,  into  which  carefully  slip 
the  yolk.  Heat  in  the  oven  just  enough  to  "set" 
the  yolk,  and  serve  it  on  a  warm  plate. 

Soft  Buttered  Toast 

Toast  six  or  eight  slices  of  stale  bread.  Melt 
one-fourth  cup  butter  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
in  a  bowl.  Quickly  dip  each  slice  of  toast  in  it, 
place  in  hot  dish,  and  pour  remainder  of  "dip" 
over  all. 

Milk  Toast 

Toast  bread  to  a  golden  brown,  having  it  dry  all 
through.  Keep  hot  in  deep  dish  in  oven.  Make 
white  sauce  No.  i  (see  page  67),  using  one  and  a 
half  cups  for  six  slices  of  toast.  Pour  between  and 
over  slices  of  toast  and  serve  hot.  If  a  softer  toast 
is  liked,  quickly  dip  slices  in  hot  water  or  milk  be- 
fore adding  sauce. 

Bread  Sticks 

Remove  the  crusts  from  any  slices  of  stale,  close- 
textured  bread,  and  cut  in  strips  about  five  inches 
long  and  one-half  inch  wide.  Roll  in  melted  butter 
and  brown  delicately  in  the  oven,  or  fry  in  deep, 
hot  fat  without  rolling  in  butter.  These  can  be 
served  with  cheese  instead  of  crackers. 

Quick  Bread  Omelet 

3  eggs  5  tablespoonfuls  white 
\  cup     soft     bread-  sauce  No.  i    (see 

crumbs  pa-ge  67) 

pash  of  cayenne  Salt  and  pepper 

J5«  . 


BREAD 


Make  the  white  sauce  and  pour  while  hot  over 
bread-crumbs,  mixing  and  mashing  them  well. 
Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick,  and  stir  them,  with 
the  extra  seasoning,  into  the  white  sauce  mixture. 
Cut  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Have 
ready  a  hot,  buttered  frying-pan,  turn  in  omelet, 
and  cook  lightly.  Set  pan  in  oven  to  dry  off  top 
of  omelet,  turn  out  on  warm  platter,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Bread  Sauce 

Cook  in  double  boiler  half  a  pint  of  milk  with  a 
small  onion  and  two  cloves.  Strain,  put  in  sauce- 
pan, and  add  half  a  cup  grated  white  bread-crumbs 
from  the  inside  of  the  loaf,  mixed  to  a  paste  with 
some  of  the  hot  milk.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes,  stir- 
ring and  blending  well.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter  just  before  taking  up.  Serve  with  boiled 
fowl.  Two  teaspoonfuls  chopped  parsley  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

Bread  Cereal 

Dry  bread  in  oven  until  crisp  and  brown.  Roll 
on  board,  or  put  through  meat  grinder,  having 
crumbs  coarse.  Serve  warm  as  a  breakfast  food 
with  cream. 

Crust  Coffee 

Cut  the  crusts  from  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread 
and  brown  in  oven  until  they  are  much  darker  in 
color,  but  not  burned.  Put  into  saucepan,  pour 
boiling  water  on  them,  and  let  stand  covered 
where  they  will  keep  hot  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Pour  off  the  liquid  into  a  hot  coffee-pot,  and  serve 
153 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

with  sugar  and  cream.     An  excellent   and  whole- 
some substitute  for  coffee. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

1  pint  milk  Yolks  2  eggs 

4  tablespoonfuls  grat-        i|  cups    stale    bread- 
ed chocolate  crumbs    (soaked 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-  in   ^  cup  water) 

ter  2  tablespoonfuls  pow- 

i  cup  sugar  dered  sugar 

Whites  2  eggs  Vanilla 

Scald  milk,  add  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water, 
butter,  and  sugar.  Stir  well  and  pour  over  the 
soft  bread-crumbs  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Add 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  pour  into  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish, and  bake  half  an  hour.  Make  meringue 
of  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry,  the 
powdered  sugar,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  vanilla.  It 
may  be  served  warm  or  cold. 

Bread  Pudding 

3  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  but- 
2  cups  bread-crumbs  ter 

J  teaspoonful    cinna-     i   quart  milk 

mon  i  teaspoonful  salt 

i  cup  raisins  Little  nutmeg 

Scald  milk.  Add  butter  and  bread-crumbs. 
Beat  eggs  light  and  add  with  salt  and  spice  to 
bread  mixture.  Bake  lightly  in  moderate  oven 
about  an  hour.  To  be  served  warm  with  hard 
sauce  (page  158)  or  lemon  sauce  No.  2  (see  below). 
1 54 


BREAD 


Lemon  Sauce  No.  2 

J  pint  sugar  Juice  of  half  a  lemon 

^  cup  butter  3  tablespoonfuls  boil- 

I  egg  ing  water 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well,  add  egg,  beaten 
very  light,  and  lemon-juice.  Beat  all  together 
thoroughly  and  add  the  boiling  water,  a  table- 
spoonful  at  a  time. 

Mock  Indian  Pudding 

Butter  on  both  sides  three  slices  of  white  bread, 
add  one  quart  of  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
molasses,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  slowly  about 
two  and  a  half  hours,  stirring  often  until  well 
mixed.     Serve  with  cream. 

Brown  Betty 

Place  alternate  layers  of  chopped  juicy  apples 
and  stale  bread-crumbs  in  buttered  baking-dish, 
having  crumbs  on  bottom.  Add  cinnamon  and 
sugar  to  each  layer  of  apple,  using  more  sugar  if 
apples  are  very  tart.  The  top  layer  to  be  bread- 
crumbs with  more  butter.  Bake  for  an  hour,  cov- 
ering dish  at  first.  Brown  crumbs  on  top.  Serve 
warm  with  hard  or  liquid  sauce,  or,  if  preferred, 
sugar  and  cream.  Scant  sugar  in  pudding  if  sweet 
sauce  is  used. 

Currant  Pudding 

1  pint  currants  6  or  8  slices  stale 

I  cup  sugar  bread 

Stew  fruit,  boiling  about  five  minutes.  Add 
sugar  just  before  caking  off  fire.     Cut  crusts  from 

II  155 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

bread  and  fit  slices  neatly  into  bowl  or  dish  from 
which  the  pudding  will  turn  out  well.  Pour  cur- 
rants between  and  over  slices,  covering  all  parts 
of  bread.  Cover  closely,  set  away  in  cool  place. 
Serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Cherry  Pudding 


I  cup    of    fine    sifted 

bread-crumbs 
I  cup  flour 

4  tablespoonf uls  sugar 
I  cup  pitted  cherries 
4  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter 


About  ^  cup  of  milk 
or  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough 

1  teaspoonful  salt 

2  teaspoonf uls  baking- 

powder 


Mix  crumbs,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking- 
jowder  together.  Rub  in  the  butter  with  a 
spoon.  Beat  the  egg  until  light,  add  the  milk,  and 
stir  into  the  dry  materials.  Sprinkle  the  least  bit 
of  flour  on  the  cherries  and  add  them.  Bake  about 
half  an  hour.     Serve  hot  with  vanilla  sauce. 


Vanilla  Sauce 

I  cup  boiling  water 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
j  teaspoonful  lemon- 
juice  or  a  bit  of 
lemon-rind 
A  little  salt 


I  egg  yolk 

I  tablespoonful  corn- 
starch 

I  teaspoonful  vanilla 

I  teaspoonful  but- 
ter 


Mix  the  corn-starch,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  pour  the 
boiling  water  oyer  them.  Cook  until  thickened. 
Remove  from  fire,  beat  in  the  egg  yolk,  butter,  and 
flavoring. 

iS6 


BREAD 


New  England  Pan  Pie  (''Pandowdy") 

Apples  Pieces  stale  bread 

Light  bread  dough  J  teaspoonful  clove 

J  cup  molasses  ^  teaspoonful  cinna- 
^  cup  sugar  mon 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-  i  teaspoonful     nut- 
ter meg 

Fill  a  good-sized  baking-dish  with  juicy  apples 
pared  and  quartered,  cover  with  a  crust  made  of 
bread  dough  (or  pastry,  page  27),  and  bake  until 
apples  are  soft  and  crust  brown.  Take  off  crust 
while  adding  to  apples  the  butter,  molasses,  sugar, 
spice,  and  pieces  of  bread.  (Amount  of  bread  may 
vary.)  Replace  crust,  having  brown  side  down, 
and  spread  with  some  of  the  apple.  Cover  closely 
with  a  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  two  hours. 
Turn  out  on  fiat  dish  and  serve  cold  with  cream. 


Spiced  Graham  Pudding 

Take  half  a  loaf  of  stale  graham  bread  before  it 
gets  very  dry,  and  cut  off  all  the  hard  crust.  Press 
seeded  raisins  well  into  the  bread  to  cover  the  entire 
surface.  Make  a  custard  mixture  of  two  cups  of 
cold  milk,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonfiil  mixed 
spices,  and  one-quarter  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Mix 
the  sugar,  salt,  and  spices  together  and  add  them 
to  the  beaten  eggs.  Pour  in  the  milk.  Soak  the 
bread  in  this  until  it  entirely  absorbs  it,  turning 
occasionally  so  all  sides  are  moistened.  Put  into  a 
buttered  pudding-mold  or  tightly  covered  pail,  and 
gtean;  one  hovir.  Serve  with  maple  sauce, 
157 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Maple  Sauce 

2  tablespoonfuls  but-  J     cup     soft     brown 

ter  sugar 

A  few  drops    lemon-  Scant    ^    teaspoonful 

juice  maple  extract 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  slowly,  and  beat 
well.  Then  stir  in  the  flavoring.  Set  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden  a  little  before  using. 

Steamed  Bread  Pudding 

I  pint  bread-crumbs       i   egg,  well  beaten 

I  cup  cold  water  i  cup  flour 

I  cup  molasses  i   teaspoonful    cinna- 

I  teaspoonful     soda,  mon 

dissolved  in  hot       i  teaspoonful  clove 
water  i   cup  raisins,  cleaned 

§  teaspoonful  salt 

Mix  together  and  steam  three  hours.  If  half 
rule  is  used,  do  not  divide  the  egg.  Nuts  may  be 
substituted  for  part  of  raisins  if  desired.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. 

Hard  Sauce 

^  cup  butter  |  teaspoonful  vanilla 

I  cup  sifted  powdered     Nutmeg 
sugar 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  powdered  sugar, 
and  beat  together  until  light.  Add  vanilla,  pile 
in  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  grate  nutmeg 
over  top,  and  set  in  ice-box  until  needed. 

Toast  Pudding 

Cut  five  or  six  slices  of  light,  stale  bread  half  an 
inch  thick.  Mix  one  beaten  egg  with  one  cup 
milk,  a4d  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  and  soakbrea4 

'58 


BREAD 


in  this  for  fifteen  minutes.     Brown  in  hot  butter 
in  a  frying-pan  or  griddle.     Serve  with  raisin  sauce. 

Raisin  Sauce 

1  i  cups  water  i  teaspoonful  flour 
■J-  cup  raisins  Sprinkling  of  salt 

\  cup  brown  or  white  Nutmeg 

sugar  I  teaspoonful  butter 

Boil  raisins  in  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  add 
sugar,  boil  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Thicken  with 
the  flour  blended  with  small  amount  of  water. 
Add  salt  and  spice,  and  just  before  taking  up,  the 
butter.     Stir  well  and  serve. 

Cream  Puffs  (from  Pop-overs) 

Take  any  pop-overs  left  from  breakfast  and 
make  an  opening  in  them  just  large  enough  to 
neatly  fill  the  center.  For  four  to  six  pop-overs 
make  a  filling  of  one-half  cup  of  cream  sweetened 
with  two  tablespoonftils  of  sugar  and  flavored 
with  one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  a  little 
lemon-juice.  Add  a  very  little  salt  and  whip  it. 
Stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  melted  gelatine.  Set  on 
the  ice  to  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  stir  in  half 
a  cup  of  any  fresh  fruit  that  has  been  sugared, 
then  drain  off  the  juice,  and  fill  the  pop-overs. 
Serve  at  once.     The  fruit  may  be  omitted. 

Vegetarian  Loaf 

2  cups  white  bread-      2  beaten  eggs 

crumbs  J  teaspoonful  salt 

1  cup  milk  I  teaspoonful  poultry 

2  cups  pecan  nuts  or  dressing 

English  walnuts       ^  cup  melted  butter 
Pepper  and  celery  salt 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Soak  bread-crumbs  in  milk  and  eggs.  Put 
nuts  through  meat  grinder,  but  do  not  use  finest 
cutter,  as  they  should  not  be  as  fine  as  meal.  Mix 
with  crumbs,  milk,  eggs,  and  seasoning.  Grease 
oblong  bread-pan  and  put  in  mixture,  pouring  a 
little  melted  butter  over  top.  Bake  half  an  hour, 
basting  often  with  butter.  Turn  out  on  platter 
and  serve  hot,  or  slice  cold.  Use  parsley  for 
garnish. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPT vS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  BITS  OF  CHEESE 


Cheese  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  many 
made-over  dishes,  particularly  to  starchy  foods 
and  those  lacking  fat,  as  it  adds  both  flavor  and 
food  value.  Being  a  concentrated  food,  a  little  of  it 
goes  a  long  way,  so  there  is  no  excuse  for  the  least 
particle  being  wasted.  When  cheese  comes  from 
the  store  it  should  be  wrapped  in  a  clean  cloth  and 
kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  the  cloth  is  moistened 
with  vinegar  this  will  retard  the  formation  of 
mold.  Grate  all  the  little  dry  pieces  as  they 
accumulate,  and  put  in  a  covered  glass  jar.  It  is 
well  to  keep  a  jar  or  two  of  Parmesan  cheese, 
which  comes  grated,  always  on  hand  to  help  out. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  overcook  cheese,  as 
this  renders  it  indigestible.  When  it  is  to  be  added 
to  a  hot  mixture  let  this  be  done,  whenever  pos- 
sible, just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

Cheesed  Rice  No.  1 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  or  chafing-dish  two  cups 
of  cold  boiled  rice  and  a  scant  half  cup  of  hot  milk, 
and  heat  thoroughly  over  water.  Then  sprinkle 
lightly  over  it  half  a  cup  of  grated  cheese  and  a 
few  shreds  of  pimento.  Cover  tightly  and  let 
i6s 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

stand  over  the  hot  water  until  the  cheese  is  melted. 
This  is  acceptable  for  Sunday  tea. 

Cheesed  Rice  No.  2 

Take  half  a  cup  of  rice.  Take  any  odds  and  ends 
of  dry  cheese  too  small  to  grate  and  melt  them  in 
the  oven,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
mixed  mustard.  Turn  the  rice  out  on  a  hot 
platter,  place  three  or  four  poached  eggs  on  top, 
and  pour  the  melted  cheese  over. 

Cheese  with  Creamed  Sprouts 

Make  a  cup  of  white  sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68), 
and  add  one  cup  of  left-over  Brussels  sprouts  to 
the  hot  sauce,  being  careful  not  to  break  them. 
When  well  heated  add  half  a  cup  of  grated  cheese 
and  remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  cheese  is 
melted.      Serve  on  squares  of  well-buttered  toast. 

Tomato  Rarebit 

J  cup  stewed  tomatoes     i  tablespoonful  butter 
J  cup  grated  cheese  i  egg 

Salt  and  cayenne  as  needed 

Strain  out  the  seeds  from  the  cup  of  well-sea- 
soned stewed  tomatoes,  pressing  through  all  of  the 
pulp,  and  let  simmer  uncovered  until  reduced  to 
half  a  cup.  Cook  this  rarebit  over  water,  either  in 
a  double  boiler  or  chafing-dish.  Melt  the  butter 
and  add  the  cheese,  and  stir  until  the  cheese 
melts.  Add  seasonings  and  tomato  pulp  and  heat 
together,  stirring  constantly.  Blend  a  little  of  this 
hot  mixture  with  the  beaten  egg  before  adding 
it.  Remove  from  the  heat  as  soon  as  the  egg  is 
166 


CHEESE 


well  stirred  in,  and  serve  on  slices  of  crisp  rye- 
bread  toast. 

Cheese  Dreams 
With  a  biscuit  cutter  cut  circles  from  very  thin 
slices  of  any  kind  of  close-textured  bread.  Lay 
very  thinly  shaved  slices  of  cheese  between  the 
bread  to  form  sandwiches.  Brown  lightly  in  hot 
butter  in  a  frying-pan.     Serve  hot. 

Cheese  Canapes 

With  a  biscuit  cutter  cut  small  circles  from 
rather  thin  slices  of  rye  bread,  and  brown  them 
lightly  in  a  little  bacon  fat.  Put  a  few  shreds  of 
pimento  on  each  circle,  cover  with  grated  cheese, 
and  set  in  oven  just  long  enough  to  melt  the 
cheese.     Serve  hot  as  a  first  course. 

Cheese  Sandwiches  (of  Hot  Biscuits) 

Have  ready  some  very  thin  slices  of  cheese.  Bake 
a  pan  of  biscuits  (see  Surprise  Biscuits,  page  12), 
and  immediately  on  taking  them  from  the  oven 
break  them  open  quickly,  spread  lightly  with  but- 
ter, and  lay  a  slice  of  cheese  between  each.  Cover 
with  a  warm  napkin  and  serve  promptly.  It  is 
necessary  to  work  quickly  so  the  warmth  of  the 
biscuit  will  melt  the  cheese.  These  are  good  for 
an  emergency  luncheon. 

Cream-Cheese  Salad 

Mix  an  equal  amount  of  cream  cheese  and 
chopped  nuts  well  together.  Add  a  little  finely 
minced  parsley.  Form  into  balls  the  size  of  small 
English  walnuts  and  set  away  to  chill.  When  ready 
to  sen^e  the  s^ad,  dress  a  platter  of  crisp  white  le^ 
167 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

tuce  leaves  that  have  been  well  dried,  with  enough 
French  dressing  (see  page  73)  to  moisten.  Lay 
the  cheese  balls  on  the  lettuce  and  serve  at  once. 
Cream  cheese  spoils  very  quickly,  so  any  left- 
overs of  it  should  be  kept  very  cold  and  utilized 
within  twenty-four  hours. 

Cream  Cheese  on  Crisp  Crackers 

Take  any  unsweetened  crackers.  If  they  are  not 
very  crisp,  put  them  on  a  flat  baking  tin  and  set 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Spread 
with  beach-plum  or  Bar-le-Duc  jelly,  and  drop  a 
srnall  teaspoonful  of  cream  cheese  in  the  center  of 
each  cracker. 

Cheese  Toast 

Dry  slightly  in  the  oven  and  then  toast-  as 
many  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread  as  needed. 
Butter  and  keep  them  warm.  Make  enough  white 
sauce  No.  2  (see  page  68)  to  well  cover  the  toast, 
using  paprika  instead  of  pepper.  When  the  sauce 
bubbles  add  one-half  cup  grated  cheese  to  each 
cup  of  sauce,  remove  from  the  fire  at  once,  and 
pour  over  the  toast.     Serve  very  hot. 

Cheese  Macaroons 

Spread  some  macaroons  lightly  with  any  tart 
jelly  at  hand.  Press  two  together  with  a  layer  of 
snappy  cheese  between. 

German  Pot-cheese  Cake 

I  cup  butter  i   cup  pot-cheese 

I  cup  sugar  1  cup    grated  bread- 

3   eggs  crumbs 

Grating  of  lemon-rind     J  teaspoonful  vanilla 
i  teaspoonful  salt 
168 


C»H  E  E  S  E 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well  together. 
Separate  the  eggs,  adding  the  yolks  one  at  a  time, 
then  the  flavoring,  and  beat  the  mixture  until  very 
light.  Stir  in  the  pot-cheese  and  grated  bread- 
crumbs. Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Cheese  and  Fish  Souffle 

Cook  half  a  cup  of  bread-crumbs  to  a  paste  in 
half  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  and  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  mild 
cheese,  grated..  To  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  add  a 
little  mustard,  salt,  cayenne,  few  drops  of  Wor- 
cestershire, half  a  teaspoonful  lemon-juice,  a  little 
minced  parsley,  and  half  a  'cup  of  cooked  fish, 
flaked.  Add  to  first  mixture  and  let  cool.  Fold  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

Cheese  Shell  Filled  with  Creamed  Cabbage 

A  small  head  of  young  cabbage  should  be  boiled 
in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  chop,  and 
season  it.  There  should  be  two  cups.  Put  it  in 
an  empty  Edam  or  pineapple  cheese  shell  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  one  cup  of  white  sauce  No.  2  (see 
page  68).  Heat  in  the  oven  until  the  sauce  bub- 
bles. This  will  give  the  cabbage  a  delicate  cheese 
flavor.  Boiled  macaroni  or  rice  may  also  be  re- 
heated in  cheese  shells  to  advantage. 

Cheese  Sticks  (from  Pie  Crust) 

When  there  is  not  enough  crust  for  another  pie, 
roll  it  thin,  cut  in  strips  about  three  inches  long 
and  one  inch  wide.     Moisten  the  edges  and  spread 
169 


THE    COOK    BOOK    0-F    LEFT-OVERS 

with  a  little  snappy  cheese.     Roll  up  and  press  the 
outer  edge  well  down.     Brown  lightly  in  the  oven. 

Cheese  Balls 

To  cream  cheese  add  a  dash  of  Tabasco,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  enough  paprika  to  give  it  a  pink 
color,  and  cream  to  make  a  paste.  Form  into 
small  balls  and  roll  in  finely  chopped  black  wal- 
nuts.    Serve  with  lettuce  and  French  dressing. 

Cheese  and  Green  Peppers 

To  soft  cheese  such  as  is  packed  in  jars  add  de- 
sired amount  of  chopped  green  peppers.  Use  for 
sandwiches  or  serve  ^rom  dish. 

Cheese  Souffle 

I  cup  white  sauce  No.     J  cup  grated  cheese 
3    (see  page  68)       3  egg  whites 

I  teaspoonful  salt  3  egg  yolks 

Dash  of  cayenne 

Make  white  sauce;  while  hot  add  cheese,  salt, 
and  cayenne,  stirring  as  cheese  melts.  Remove 
from  heat  and  add  yolks  of  eggs  already  beaten 
until  thick.  Let  cool,  cut  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs,  turn  into  buttered  baking-dish  hold- 
ing a  quart,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Soup 

I I  cups  milk  I  cup  grated  cheese 
I  cup    cooked    diced      i   egg 

carrots  and  car-      J  teaspoonful  ground 
rot-juice  mace 

\  teaspoonful  salt  Little  cayenne 

170 


CHEESE 


Cook  milk  in  double  boiler  with  carrots,  adding 
spice  and  seasoning.  When  the  carrots  are  very 
soft,  strain  and  press  through  a  sieve,  pouring 
liquid  on  to  a  beaten  egg,  stirring  carefully  mean- 
while. Return  the  soup  to  the  double  boiler,  re- 
heat, add  grated  cheese,  and  serve  when  this  is 
melted. 

Welsh  Rarebit 

1  tablespoonful  butter  i   egg,   slightly  beaten 
I  cup  cream  with  i  tablespoon- 

J  cup  cheese,  broken  ful  of  water 

in  small  pieces  |  teaspoonful  mustard 

J  teaspoonful  lemon-  ^  teaspoonful    celery 

juice  salt 

Jteaspoonful  Wor-  Toasted  bread  or  crisp 

cestershire  sauce  crackers 

Dash  of  cayenne 

Melt  butter  in  double  boiler,  add  cheese  and 
cream,  and  while  this  is  melting  stir  in  mustard, 
celery  salt,  and  cayenne  previously  mixed  together. 
When  the  cheese  mixture  has  begun  to  thicken 
and  look  creamy,  carefully  stir  in  the  egg.  Just 
before  taking  up  add  lemon- juice  and  Worcester- 
shire. Serve  at  once  on  toast  or  crackers.  Avoid 
overcooking,  or  the  cheese  will  become  stringy. 

Mock  Welsh  Rarebit 

3  tablespoonfuls  but-  ^  cup  milk 

ter  ^  teaspoonful  salt 

I  tablespoonful  flour  j  cup    white    bread- 
I  well-beaten  egg  crumbs 

^  cup  cheese  Toasted  crackers 

i  cup  cold  water  Cayenne 
12                                    171 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Soak  crumbs  in  water  fifteen  minutes.  Prepare 
and  measure  all  ingredients,  as  everything  should 
be  at  hand  before  beginning  to  cook.  Melt  butter, 
add  flour,  and  while  cooking  add  cheese  crumbled 
in  small  pieces.  Cook  and  stir  till  smooth,  and 
cheese  is  almost  melted,  then  add  milk  gradually. 
The  soft  bread-crumbs  and  seasoning  come  next. 
When  well  blended,  add  the  egg  mixed  with  a 
tablespoonful  cold  water.  Cook  and  stir  carefully 
until  slightly  thickened,  pour  over  hot  crackers, 
and  serve  at  once. 


V 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  SOUR  MILX  AND 
CREAM 


It  often  happens  in  warm  weather,  with  even  a 
limited  milk  supply,  that  some  of  it  gets  sour  be- 
fore it  can  be  used.  This  sour  milk  should  never 
be  wasted,  even  if  there  is  only  a  little.  It  is  a 
valuable  kitchen  asset.  Have  a  clean  glass  or 
earthen  receptacle  to  pour  the  remnants  in,  and 
keep  in  the  ice-box  or  a  cold  place  until  enough 
has  accumulated  to  make  from  a  half  to  one  cup. 
Then  plan  to  use  it  as  soon  as  it  thickens,  for 
milk  becomes  bitter  if  it  stands  too  long. 

In  the  following  receipts  all  soda  measurements 
should  be  level  and  exact. 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

I  cup  com-meal  if  cups  thick  scut 

I  cup  Graham  flour  milk 

^  cup  molasses  i  teaspoonful  soda 

J  teaspoonful  salt 

Sift  the  meal  and  flour  before  measuring.     Dis- 
solve soda  in  little  hot  water,  add  to  milk.      Com- 
bine wet  and  dry  materials,   pour  into  greased 
177 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

mold  (leaving  room  for  bread  to  rise),  cover  with 
greased  cover,  and  steam  four  hours.  Take  off 
cover  and  bake  in  oven  half  an  hour.  This  will 
make  one  loaf. 

Emergency  Biscuits 
2  cups  flour  I  cup  thick  sour  milk 

I  tablespoonful  J  teaspoonful  salt 

shortening  J  teaspoonful  soda 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  soda  well  together.  Rub 
in  the  shortening  with  a  spoon.  Add  the  milk  and 
stir  lightly.  The  dough  should  be  soft.  Drop  by- 
spoonfuls  into  greased  muffin-tins  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Sour-milk  Griddle-cakes 

I   cup  thick  sour  milk      i   egg 
J  cup    any    cooked      About  f  cup  flour 
cereal  J  teaspoonful  soda 

I  teaspoonful  salt 

Beat  sotir  milk,  cereal,  and  egg  well  together. 
Sift  flour  and  salt  and  add  them.  When  ready  to 
bake  the  cakes  add  the  soda  and  beat  the  batter 
vigorously.  It  should  look  like  thick  cream.  If 
too  thin  add  a  little  more  flour,  and  if  too  thick 
add  more  sour  milk  or  a  little  water. 

Bread  Griddle-cakes  (with  Sour  Milk) 

See  page  150. 

Breakfast  Straws 

I   cup   of  thick  sour      |  teaspoonful  cinna- 

milk  mon 

I  cup  dried  currants       About   2   cups  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  soda  and  enough  more 

J  teaspoonful  salt  to  roll 

178 


SOUR    MILK    AND    CREAM 

Sift  the  flotir,  soda,  salt,  and  cinnamon  to- 
gether; add  the  currants.  Stir  in  the  milk  quickly. 
The  dough  should  be  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.  Cut 
into  narrow  strips  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  These  are 
good  with  coffee. 

Com  Bread 

1  cup  corn-meal     |  teaspoonful  soda 

(scant)  I  tablespoonful  sugar 

I  cup  flour  I  tablespoonful  melted 

I  egg,  well  beaten  beef    dripping    or 

I  cup  thick  sour  milk  chicken  fat 

J  teaspoonful  salt 

Dissolve  soda  in  hot  water,  put  with  sour  milk. 
Sift  and  mix  dry  materials;  add  egg,  milk,  and 
shortening.  Bake  in  muf!in-tins  half  an  hour.  A 
little  sour  cream,  if  at  hand,  may  be  substituted  for 
some  of  milk.     In  that  case  omit  shortening. 

Cottage  Cheese  No.  1 

Cook  one  pint  of  thick  sour  milk  in  double  boiler 
over  simmering  water  until  it  begins  to  whey. 
Strain  through  fine  napkin,  squeeze  out  the  whey, 
and  add  three  teaspoonfuls  of  cream,  a  little  salt, 
and  white  pepper.  Make  into  small  balls.  This 
amotmt  makes  four  or  five. 

Cottage  Cheese  No.  2 

To  three  pints  of  thick  sour  milk  add  one  pint 
of  boiling  or  very  hot  water.  Let  stand  half  an 
hour,  pour  off  water,  and  put  curd  in  small  bag  to 
drain  (a  small  salt-bag  may  be  used).  Add  salt,  a 
little  soft  butter,  and  cream  if  at  han4, 

?79 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Eggless  Cookies  (Plain) 

J  cup  butter  (chicken  J  teaspoonful  cinna- 
fat  or  beef  dripping  mon 

may  be  substituted)  |  teaspoonful  clove 

I  cup  sugar  Salt 

I   cup  thick  sour  milk  2  cups  flour;  enough 

f  teaspoonful  soda  more  to  roll  out 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Dissolve  soda  in  hot 
water  and  add  to  milk.  Mix  all  together,  making 
soft  dough.  Use  as  little  extra  flour  as  possible. 
Chill  dough,  and  use  only  small  portion  at  a  time. 
Roll  out  thin,  sprinkle  a  little  granulated  sugar  and 
two  or  three  currants  on  top.      Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Graham  Bread 

I  cup  thick  sour  milk  i   cup  wheat  flour 

J  cup  molasses  |  teaspoonful  baking- 
I  cup  Graham  flour  powder 

J  teaspoonful  salt  i  teaspoonful  soda 

Sift  Graham  and  wheat  flour  and  measure.  Add 
baking-powder  and  salt;  sift  again.  Dissolve  soda 
in  hot  water,  add  to  sour  milk,  and  mix  with 
molasses.  Combine  wet  and  dry  mixtures,  bake 
in  bread-pan  one  and  one-half  hours.  This  will 
make  one  loaf. 

Sour-milk  Gingerbread 

1  scant  cup  molasses       i  egg 

^  cup  thick  sour  milk  4  tablespoonfuls  cocoa 

4  tablespoonfuls  melt-  i  teaspoonful  ginger 

ed  shortening  |  teaspoonful  soda 

2  cups  flour  I  teaspoonful  salt 

180 


SOUR    MILK    AND    CREAM 

Mix  molasses,  sour  milk,  and  beaten  egg  well 
together,  and  add  cocoa,  ginger,  salt,  and  flour. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  very  little  hot  water  and 
add  it.  Beat  in  the  melted  shortening  at  the  last. 
Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  or  muffin-tins  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  twenty-five  minutes.  A  mixture  of 
Porto  Rico  and  New  Orleans  molasses  gives  the 
best  results. 

Sour-Cream  Filling  for  Cake 

Sweeten  and  chill  a  cupful  of  sour  cream.  Whip 
it,  keeping  it  cold  while  doing  so,  and  when  stiff 
fold  in  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  This  is  excellent 
for  layer  c^kes.  If  for  any  reason  the  cream  does 
not  become  stiff,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  melted 
gelatine  at  the  last  and  set  on  the  ice. 

Cream  Spice  Cake 

I  cup  sour  cream  2  cups  bread  flour 

I  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoonful  vanilla 

I  egg,  well  beaten  2  teaspoonfuls  grated 
I  teaspoonful  soda  nutmeg 

I  cup  raisins,  chopped  2  teaspoonfuls  cinna- 

and  floured  mon 

Sprinkling  of  salt   (if  i  teaspoonful  allspice 

needed)  |  teaspoonful  clove 

Mix  all  together,  adding  to  sotir  cream  the  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Bake  as  a  loaf  for 
one  hour,  or  in  muffin- tins.  A  small  amount  of 
sour  cream  may  always  be  set  aside,  and  more 
added  each  day  as  it  is  left,  until  there  is  a  cupful. 
When  each  addition  is  made,  stir  well,  putting  in 
a  little  salt,  and  it  will  keep  some  time. 
181 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Cream  Filling  for  Cake 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  sour  cream,  chopped 
nuts  and  raisins.  Add  a  little  lemon-juice  and 
powdered  sugar. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  WHITES  OR 
YOLKS   OF  EGGS 


Eggs  should  always  be  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth 
before  they  are  broken.  The  shells  are  then  all 
ready  to  be  used  for  clearing  coffee,  soup,  or  jelly. 
When  any  uncooked  whites  or  yolks  are  left  over 
put  them  in  a  cup,  cover  with  a  folded  damp 
cloth,  and  slip  a  rubber  band  around  it.  Left- 
over poached  or  soft-cooked  eggs  may  be  care- 
fully returned  to  hot  water  and  cooked  until  hard, 
and  then  chopped  and  mixed  v/ith  cold  meat  or 
fish  dishes  (see  Kedjeree,  page  89,  and  Fish  with 
Pie  Crust,  page  94) ,  or  sliced  and  used  for  salads, 
(see  Green  Pea  Salad  in  Egg  Cases,  page  121),  etc. 
Bits  of  omelet  or  scrambled  eggs  are  always  per- 
missible in  a  meat  hash. 

*♦  Floating  Island"  for  Soft  Custard  (Using  up 
Whites  of  Eggs) 

Beat  up  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  gradually  beat 
in  very  little  powdered  sugar,  and  drop  large 
spoonfuls  in  hot  (not  boiling)  milk  in  frying-pan. 
Dip  milk  over  egg,  that  it  may  cook  slightly. 
Take  up  in  a  skimmer  and  drain.  Serve  on  sof  i 
13  187 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

custard  with  a  bit  of  bright  jelly  on  top  of  each 
spoonful. 

Snow  Pudding   (to  Use  up  Whites  of  Eggs) 

Mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Add  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and 
boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Put  in 
double  boiler  and  let  cook  half  an  hour.  Cool  and 
flavor  as  desired.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  two  or  three  eggs  and  a  cup  of  any  fresh  or 
canned  fruit,  without  juice,  and  mold  it.  Serve 
with  sweetened  cream. 

Blanc  Mange  (to  Use  up  Whites  of  Eggs) 

I  pint  milk  (scalded)      i  tablespoonful  sugar 
5  tablespoonfuls  corn-     Whites  of  3  eggs 
starch  Grated  lemon-rind 

I  teaspoonful  salt 

Blend  corn-starch  with  one-fourth  cup  cold 
milk,  add  to  scalded  milk,  and  cook  in  double 
boiler,  then  directly  over  fire  a  few  minutes.  Add 
other  ingredients.  Beat  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  after  corn-starch  is  taken  from  fire.  Mold. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

White  Cake  (to  Use  up  Whites  of  Eggs) 

I  cup  butter  2   cups  bread  flour 

I  cup  sugar  4  teaspoonfuls  baking- 

I  cup  milk  powder 

Few  grains  of  salt  ^  teaspoonful  almond 

Whites  of  3  eggs  extract 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  (with  baking- 
powder  and  salt),  and  milk  alternately.     Flavor- 
188 


EGGS 

ing  and  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  added  last. 
Line  pan  with  paper  and  bake  in  moderately  hot 
oven  with  increasing  heat.  Frosting  is  an  im- 
provement to  this  cake. 

Frosting 

i  cup  boiling  water  White  of  i  egg 

I  cup  granulated  sugar       Flavoring 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads.  Pour 
gradually  on  stiffly  beaten  egg  white  and  beat 
until  all  has  been  added  and  frosting  is  of  right 
consistency  to  spread.  Flavor  with  few  drops 
lemon-juice.  If  chocolate  frosting  is  desired,  melt 
two  teaspoonfuls  chocolate  over  hot  water  and 
stir  into  the  white  icing. 


Emergency  Ice-cream  (to  Use  up  Whites  of  Eggs) 

The  freezer  for  this  receipt  should  hold  not  less 
than  two  quarts. 

Make  a  custard  with  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one- 
fourth  cup  flour,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  few  grains 
salt,  and  half  a  can  of  sweetened  condensed  milk 
with  water  to  make  up  a  quart.  When  cold  and 
ready  to  freeze  add  one  cup  canned  evaporated 
milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  vanilla,  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs.  It  may  be  flavored  with 
chocolate  (melted  over  hot  water  and  added  to 
the  hot  custard),  with  fresh  cut-up  peaches  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  or  with  bits  of  chopped  ginger. 
This  receipt,  besides  using  up  extra  whites  of  eggs, 
is  usef\4  when  fresh  milk  is  scarce, 
1^9 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

Apple  and  Ginger  Fluff  (Using  up  Whites  of  Eggs) 

For  a  half  cupful  of  left-over  whites  of  eggs  use 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  sifted  apple,  one-fourth  cup 
powdered  sugar,  few  grains  salt,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ftil  ground  or  chopped  crystallized  ginger.  Take 
baked  apples  left  from  breakfast,  or  apple  sauce. 
Rub  apple  through  strainer,  sift  sugar,  put  ginger 
through  meat  grinder,  using  finest  cutter.  Add 
salt  to  eggs,  beat  very  stiff,  and  gradually  add 
sugar,  ginger,  and  a  little  at  a  time  the  apple,  beat- 
ing very  hard.  Pile  in  glass  dish  and  put  in  cool 
place  until  ready  to  serve.  It  must  not  stand  long, 
or  it  will  fall.  Ginger  may  be  cut  into  little  bits 
and  stirred  through  the  mixture. 

Scrambled  Eggs  (Using  up  Yolks  of  Eggs) 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  i  large  tablespoonful 
I  whole  egg  bacon  cut  in  bits 

Dash  of  cayenne  J  cup  milk 

Dried  bread  or  toast  |  tablespoonful  butter 

Prepare  crisp  dry  toast,  or  use  oven-dried  slices 
of  bread,  if  at  hand.  Beat  eggs  lightly,  add  milk 
and  bacon.  Melt  butter  in  hot  omelet-pan,  add 
the  egg  mixture,  and  cook  lightly,  holding  pan  up 
from  intense  heat.  Have  hot  milk  ready  in  sauce- 
pan, dip  slices  of  bread  or  toast  quickly  in  it,  put 
on  hot  platter,  and  pour  scrambled  eggs  over  all. 

Scrambled  Matzoth — Passover  Dish  (Using  up 
Yolks  of  Eggs) 

3    small   round    mat-  Yolks  3  eggs 

zoth  White  I  egg 

Butter  3  tablespoonful! 
J  teaspQQnful  salt  o^  milli; 

199 


EGGS 


Break  matzoth  (a  kind  of  cracker  sold  chiefly 
in  Jewish  shops)  in  pieces  and  soak  in  cold  water 
until  soft.  Press  out  the  water  and  mix  with 
well-beaten  eggs  and  salt.  Heat  pan,  put  in  a 
little  butter,  add  the  matzoth  mixture,  and  stir 
until  eggs  are  lightly  cooked.     Serve  for  breakfast. 

Little  Gold  Cakes  (Using  up  Yolks  of  Eggs) 

I  tablespoonful  butter  J  teaspoonful  soda 

i  cup  sugar  Scant    f    cup   sifted 
4  egg  yolks    (beaten  bread  flour 

till  very  thick)  Grated  nutmeg 

I  cup  sour  cream  Few  grains  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  beaten 
yolks,  and  beat  hard.  Combine  soda,  dissolved 
in  very  little  hot  water,  with  cream,  add  to  egg 
mixture,  quickly  add  flour,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and 
bake  in  small  tins.  PVost  when  cold  and  place 
candied  cherry  on  top  of  each. 


MY    OWN    RECEIP-DS 


MY    OWN     RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER  FRUIT 


Ripe  fruit  is  perishable,  and  when  the  supply  is 
within  control,  the  housekeeper  should  take  care 
to  keep' it  limited  so  there  will  not  be  large  quanti- 
ties on  hand.  As  soon  as  it  shows  signs  of  soften- 
ing it  is  no  longer  fit  to  be  served  as  fresh  fruit, 
but  should  be  cooked  up  at  once  with  a  little  sugar 
added,  and  used  as  a  sauce;  or,  with  more  sugar 
added  and  cooked  longer,  almost  any  fruit  can 
be  made  into  a  good  jam  for  future  use.  Only 
perfectly  sound,  fresh  fruit  is  safe  to  can.  Can- 
ned fruit  when  opened  spoils  more  quickly  than 
any  other  cooked  fruit;  it  is  therefore  wise  always 
to  use  any  remainder  as  soon  as  possible.  It  can 
be  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  a  little  corn-starch 
added  for  thickening,  made  sweeter  if  necessarj'-, 
and  cooked  until  it  thickens,  and  used  as  a  sauce 
for  puddings.  It  can  be  molded  in  a  corn-starch 
mixture,  added  to  a  muffin  batter  and  baked,  or 
stirred  into  ice-cream  when  the  dasher  is  removed, 
or  poured  over  ice-cream  when  it  is  served.  Many 
other  ways  will  suggest  themselves. 

Fruit  Mac^doine 

It  often  happens  that  a  little  fresh  fruit  is  al- 
lowed to  spoil  because  there  is  not  enough  to  go 
197 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

round  again.  Instead  of  this  two  or  more  kinds 
may  be  mixed  together  very  acceptably.  The 
following  make  good  combinations:  strawberries 
and  pineapple;  raspberries,  currants,  and  a  few 
pitted  cherries;  huckleberries  and  a  few  currants; 
peaches  and  pineapple ;  pears  and  peaches ;  orange, 
grape-fruit,  and  banana.  Keep  the  left-overs  very 
cold  and  carefully,  to  avoid  a  "  mussy  "  appearance, 
and  serve  again  promptly. 

Stewed-Fruit  Macedoine 

A  small  portion  of  several  fruits,  particularly 
berries,  may  be  stewed  together,  into  an  excellent 
sauce.  The  following  are  good  combinations: 
cranberries  and  a  few  raisins;  rhubarb  and  huckle- 
berries; raspberries  and  currants;  huckleberries 
and  currants.  Avoid  long  cooking  of  any  of  these, 
as  it  dissipates  the  flavor. 

Apricot  Sauce 

Beat  powdered  sugar,  apricot-juice,  and  pieces 
of  fruit  together.  Whip  white  of  an  egg  very 
light,  and  add  to  beaten  fruit  and  sugar,  or  add 
fruit  gradually  to  unbeaten  egg  white,  and  beat 
some  minutes.  Sauce  made  in  second  way  will 
stand  longer.     Different  fruits  may  be  used. 

Apple -Sauce  Cake 

*       T   cup  light  brown  i   teaspoonful    soda 

sugar  if  cups  bread  flour 

I  cup  shortening  §   teaspoonful   each 

I  cup  apple  sauce  mace,  clove,  and 

I  teaspoonful  salt  cinnamon 

198 


FRUIT 


Put  sugar  and  shortening  in  mixing-bowl,  add 
apple  sauce,  then  dry  ingredients  already  mixed 
and  sifted.  Beat  well,  turn  into  deep  pan,  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  about  one  hour.  If  liked,  one 
cup  of  floured  raisins  may  be  added  with  dry  in- 
gredients. Butter  alone  may  be  used  for  shorten- 
ing, or  part  chicken  or  rendered  beef  fat. 

Apple  Charlotte 

I  tablespoonful  gela-  3  tablespoonfuls  cold 

tine  water 

\  cup  sugar  J  cup  strained  apple 
J  cup  boiling  water  sauce 

I  tablespoonful  lemon-  i  cup  whipped  cream 

juice 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold,  dissolve  in  boiling,  water. 
Add  sugar,  lemon-juice,  and  apple  sauce  (more 
sugar  if  the  apple  sauce  is  not  sweet),  and  set  in 
cool  place  to  stiffen.  When  it  is  thoroughly  chilled 
and  begins  to  harden  around  the  edges,  beat  with 
a  Dover  beater,  adding  gradually  the  whipped 
cream.  When  stiff  enough  to  drop,  pour  into 
mold  and  chill.  The  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff  may  be  used  instead  of  cream,  and  the  char- 
lotte served  with  soft  custard. 

Blackberry  Jelly  (with  Gelatine) 

f  cup  blackberry-juice     i  tablespoonful  lemon- 
and  pulp    strain-  juice 

ed    from    stewed     ^  cup  boiling  water 
blackberries  J  tablespoonful  gela- 

tine 

Soak  gelatine  in  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water; 
Wh^n  so^t^n^d  dissolve  in  boiling  w^ter;  a4<i  sugar 
199 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

if  necessary,  hot  blackberry-pulp,  and  lemon-juice. 
Mix,  pour  into  bowl  or  mold,  and  set  in  cool  place 
to  form.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Blueberry  Ice 

I    pint    stewed    blue-     J  tablespoonful  gela- 
berries     (already  tine,    soaked    in 

sweetened)  half  a  cup  of  cold 

§  cup  sugar  water 

■J  cup  lemon- juice  i  cup  boiling  water 

I  beaten  egg  white 

Strain  berries.  (Juice  should  amount  to  one 
and  one-half  cups.)  Melt  soaked  gelatine  in  boil- 
ing water,  add  sugar,  blueberry,  and  lemon-juice. 
Cool  and  freeze.  Stir  in  beaten  egg  white  just 
before   freezing. 

Stewed  Cantaloup 

When  cantaloups  are  cut  they  are  sometimes 
found  to  be  too  green  or  too  tasteless  to  be  served 
as  fresh  fruit.  In  such  cases,  cut  the  pulp  out 
with  a  spoon  or  knife,  add  a  little  water,  sugar 
according  to  the  sweetness  of  the  melons,  and  a 
few  thin  slices  of  lemon.     Stew  until  tender. 

Corn -starch  Pudding 

I  pint  milk  i  egg,  well  beaten 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-     J  teaspoonful  salt 

starch, blended  in     J  cup  chopped  cook- 
little  cold  water  ed  peaches,  apri- 
i  cup  sugar                                cots,  or  pears 
Flavoring 

Scald  milk,  stir  in  blended  corn-starch,  and  cook 
five  minutes  in  double  boiler.     Place  upper  part 

200 


FRUIT 


double  boiler  over  fire,  let  corn-starch  boil,  return 
boiler  to  place,  add  sugar,  egg,  and  salt  beaten  to- 
gether, and  cook  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Flavor  with  vanilla,  add  fruit,  and  pour  into  mold. 
Chill,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  An  excel- 
lent way  of  using  up  small  amounts  of  canned 
fruits. 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Mix  one-third  cup  of  pineapple  shredded  with  a 
fork,  one-half  cup  of  sliced  orange-pulp  and  bana- 
nas, one  cup  berries  or  grape-fruit.  Pour  over  a 
dressing  made  of  one-third  cup.  melted  currant 
jelly,  three  tablespoonfuls  lemon-juice,  and  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar.  (Jelly  and  sugar  are  heated 
and  lemon-juice  added.)    Chill  and  serve  in  glasses. 

A  Cream  Filling  for  Cake 

Take,  one  cup  of  thick  corn-starch  custard,  and 
mix  with  it  one-half  cup  of  chopped  stewed  prunes, 
drained  very  dry,  and  add  a  few  chopped  walnuts. 

Emergency  Salad  (from  Fruit  and  Nuts) 
Cut  a  few  bits  of  cheese  into  neat  cubes.  Chop 
six  or  eight  olives.  Break  a  few  English  walnuts 
in  suitable-sized  pieces.  Remove  the  skin  and 
seeds  from  a  bunch  of  white  grapes,  if  at  hand. 
Slice  a  banana  or  orange.  Cut  one  or  two  small 
sweet  pickles  in  thin  slivers.  Mix  all  lightly  to- 
gether. Take  four  fair  red  apples.  Polish  them 
well,  cut  a  thick  slice  from  the  stem  end  and  take 
out  the  core  and  most  of  the  apple  part,  so  as  to 
form  a  cup.  Mix  the  salad  with  a  little  mayon- 
naise, and  serve  in  the  apples,  replacing  the  slice 
on  top. 

20I 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Fruit  Souffle 

f  cup  cooked  and         Whites   3    eggs 
strained  fruit-pulp         Enough   sugar    to 
peach,     apricot,  sweeten 

prune,  or  quince 

Prepare  pulp  from  canned  or  stewed  fruit;  add 
sugar  if  necessary;  if  too  sweet,  lemon-juice.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  gradually  fruit-pulp,  and 
beat  until  all  has  been  put  in.  Turn  into  buttered 
molds,  having  them  three-fourths  full.  Place  in 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm. 
Serve  with  soft  custard. 

Soft  Custard 

I  pint  milk  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

Yolks  3  eggs  §  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Few  grains  salt  or    piece  lemon- 

rind 

Scald  milk  with  lemon-rind,  beat  yolks,  sugar, 
and  salt  together.  Combine  by  pouring  hot  milk 
gradually  on  yolks  and  sugar,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Strain  mixture  into  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
thickened  slightly.  Remove  at  once  from  double 
boiler  and  cool.  If  vanilla  is  preferred,  add  when 
custard  is  cold. 

Jelly  Whip 

3  tablespoonfuls   any  i  teaspoonful  gelatine 

tart  jelly  4  tablespoonfuls  roU- 

3  egg  whites  ed  macaroons 

J  teaspoonful  lemon-  A  little  salt 
juice 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water  ten  minutes,  and  then  melt  over  hot  water. 
202 


FRUIT 


Add  the  jelly  and  salt  to  the  unbeaten  whites  and 
beat  stiff  with  a  Dover  beater,  adding  the  lemon- 
juice  and  gelatine  gradually.  Fold  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  macaroons  and  set  away  to  chill. 
Put  a  tablespoonful  of  any  juicy  fresh  or  canned 
fruit  in  small  glasses,  pile  the  whip  lightly  on  top, 
and  sprinkle  with  the  remainder  of  the  macaroons. 

Grape-fruit  Served  in  Slices 

One  large  grape-fruit  can  be  made  to  serve  four 
people  at  luncheon  by  cutting  it  into  thick  slices 
like  a  watermelon,  removing  the  fibrous  core  in  the 
center  and  filling  the  space  with  any  fresh  fruit 
at  hand,  such  as  strawberries,  peaches,  or  shredded 
pineapple.      Have  all  well  chilled  before  serving. 

Huckleberry  Dumplings 

ijcups   left-over     i  teaspoonf ul  vinegar 
huckleberries  i    teaspoonful    cinna- 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  mon 

3  tablespoonfuls  water 

Put  above  ingredients  into  saucepan  and  let  them 
come  just  to  the  boil.  While  these  are  heating 
sift  together  one  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder,  and  one-eighth  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Beat  up  one  egg,  add  to  it  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  milk,  and  stir  lightly  into  the  dry  ma- 
terials. There  should  be  just  liquid  enough  to 
wet  the  flour,  and  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  into  the  boiling  huckleberries,  cover 
tightly,  and  boil  ten  minutes  without  removing  the 
cover.  Serve  at  once.  A  mixture  of  huckleberries 
and  currants  may  be  used,  and  the  vinegar  omitted. 
14  203 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Hasty  Huckleberry  Pudding 

Take  fotir  slices  of  cut  bread  that  has  not  be- 
come dry.  Butter  the  slices  on  both  sides.  Place 
one  each  in  individual  sauce-dishes.  Grate  a  very 
little  nutmeg  on  the  top  of  each,  and  pour  over 
enough  warm,  stewed  huckleberries  to  moisten  and 
well  cover. 

Lemon  Gups  for  Dressings 

When  making  lemonade  save  the  best  skins  by 
putting  them  at  once  in  cold  water.  In  this  way 
they  will  keep  for  several  days,  and  are  nice  to  use 
in  serving  salad  dressings  with  lettuce  salad,  or 
cocktail  sauce  with  oysters  or  clams,  or  cold  Hol- 
landaise  sauce  with  fish. 

Lemon  Syrup  for  Lemonade 

Do  not  allow  an  accumidated  supply  of  lemons 
to  dry  up  or  mold.  They  can  be  made  into  syrup 
which  will  keep  for  some  time,  and  which  can  be 
used  for  lemonade  by  simply  adding  water.  To 
make  syrup,  boil  a  cup  of  sugar  with  one-quarter 
cup  of  water  until  it  threads.  Add  to  this  the 
juice  and  pulp  of  six  lemons  and  the  grated  rind 
of  two,  being  careful  to  grate  only  the  thin  yellow 
part.  Let  all  scald  together,  but  do  not  boil. 
Strain  and  bottle. 

Peach  Tapioca 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  granulated  tapioca  in  one 

and  one-half  cups  of  cold  water  over  night.     In 

the  morning  add  two  cups  of  boiling  water  and  a 

little  salt,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.     Then  put 

204 


FRUIT 


into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  clear.  Take  the 
remnants  of  a  can  of  peaches — there  should  be  at 
least  a  cup,  and  if  there  is  a  pit  or  two  all  the 
better.  Add  a  little  more  sugar,  and  simmer  until 
the  syrup  is  somewhat  thickened,  and  stir  into  the 
cleared  tapioca.  Remove  from  the  fire,  cool,  and 
pour  into  a  glass  dish.  Serve  with  sweetened 
cream. 

Peach  Sauce 

When  preserving  peaches  take  the  broken  pieces 
and  halves  not  perfect  enough  for  putting  in  jars 
and  make  a  sauce  of  them.  Add  vinegar,  clove, 
cinnamon,  and  sugar,  and  boil  all  together  until  of 
the  right  consistency. 

Peach  Pudding 

I  cup  flour  2  tablespoonfuls  but- 
J  cup  sugar  ter 

J  cup  milk  2  teaspoonfuls  baking- 
Left  -  over     peaches,  powder 

canned  or  fresh  i  egg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well-beaten  egg, 
milk,  and  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted  together. 
Put  a  layer  of  peaches  in  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
pour  the  batter  over,  and  bake.  Serve  with  cream 
and  sugar,  or  sweet  sauce.  Other  fruits  may  be 
used  instead  of  peaches. 

Sauce  of  Mixed  Fruit 

One  or  two  kinds  of  stewed  fruits  added  to  a  tart 
stewed  plum  sauce  will  improve  it  and  give  variety. 
Rub  the  sauce  through  a  strainer,  add  to  it  two 
205 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

or  three  Bartlett  pears  (cut  fine  and  stewed  until 
tender  in  a  very  little  water),  and  a  few  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  left-over  apple  sauce.  Sweeten  and  cook 
together  until  the  flavors  of  the  fruits  are  well 
blended  and  the  sauce  has  thickened  slightly. 

Fruit  Sago  (from  Syrup  Left  from  Canning) 

In  canning  berries  there  is  often  a  quantity  of 
fruit  syrup  left  over.  Take  a  pint  of  any  kind  at 
hand,  but  raspberry  or  raspberry  and  ctirrant 
particularly  recommended,  and  stir  into  it  when 
boiling  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sago  that  has  been 
soaked  in  cold  water  several  hours.  Add  more 
sugar  if  necessary  and  a  little  salt,  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  the  sago  is  soft.  Pour  in  a 
mold  and  chill.  This  can  be  served  with  a  little 
fresh  fruit  or  with  sweetened  cream. 

Fruit  Whip 

Put  a  little  jelly  or  preserve  in  the  bottom  of 
lemonade  glasses.  Fill  up  with  sweetened  and 
flavored  whipped  cream.  May  be  served  as  an 
evening  dessert  with  light  cakes. 

Individual  Sliortcakes  with  Stewed  Fruit 

Measiu-e  a  pint  of  sifted  flour.  Sift  with  it  two 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
four  scant  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.  Cut  into 
the  mixture  one-fourth  cup  shortening  (equal  parts 
butter  and  chicken  fat  or  beef  dripping  may  be 
used).  Make  a  soft  dough  with  about  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Bake  in  small  tins, 
split  after  baking,  butter  the  halves  and  spread 
tJetween  ^n4  on  top  any  left-over  stewe4  or  panne4 
?9§ 


FRUIT 


fruits  such  as  peaches,  apricots,  blackberries,  or  cur- 
rants. Small  amounts  may  be  used,  varying  the 
filling  if  there  is  not  enough  of  one  kind  to  go 
around,  or  a  meringue  may  be  made,  for  the  top, 
of  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  sweetened  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  and  flavored 
with  lemon-juice. 

Orange  Peel 
Do  not  make  a  practice  of  throwing  away  the 
skins  of  oranges.     The  grated  yellow  rind  makes 
a  good  flavoring  for  cakes,  candies,  pudding  sauces, 
and  icings,  and  is  much  cheaper  than  extracts. 

Candied  Orange  Peel 

Cut  the  peel  of  three  or  four  oranges  into  narrow 
strips  and  soak  it  twenty-four  hours  in  enough 
cold  water  to  cover,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt  to  each  quart  of  water  used.  Pour  off  the  salt 
water  and  rinse  very  thoroughly.  Cover  with  fresh 
cold  water  and  boil  until  almost  tender.  Make  a 
syrup  of  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  and  one- 
quarter  cups  of  water.  When  it  boils  add  the 
orange  peel  and  simmer  gently  until  it  looks  clear 
and  the  syrup  has  thickened.  Take  out  a  few 
pieces  at  a  time  with  a  fork,  roll  in  granulated 
sugar,  and  spread  on  a  flat  platter.  Or  it  may 
be  dried  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open,  packed 
in  glass  jars,  and  used  for  mince  pies,  puddings, 
etc.,  cut  in  small  bits.  If  any  syrup  remains  it 
can  be  used  a  second  time,  or  it  will  flavor  a 
pudding  sauce. 

Orange  Baskets 

When  the  pulp  of  oranges  is  to  be  served  in 
small  pieces,  or  the  juice  alone  used,  cut  the  peel 
207 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

in  the  form  of  baskets  with  a  handle  half  an  inch 
wide,  and  with  a  spoon  carefully  remove  the  pulp. 
Put  the  baskets  at  once  into  cold  water  and  they 
will  keep  fresh  for  several  days.  Use  them  for 
serving  orange  sponge,  lemon  jelly,  or  a  fruit  blanc 
mange.  An  orange  sponge  may  be  attractively 
served  to  an  invalid  in  this  way.  For  the  sponge 
take  the  juice  of  a  medium-sized  orange,  strain  it, 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  stir  until  dis- 
solved. Add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cold  water  to 
one  teaspoonful  of  granulated  gelatine.  When 
softened  melt  over  hot  water  and  add  to  the  orange- 
juice  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice.  Set  on  ice 
until  it  begins  to  harden  around  the  edge  of  the 
bowl,  then  beat  with  a  Dover  beater  until  the 
mass  is  thick  and  spongy.  Chill  again  and  pile 
lightly  in  the  orange  basket  after  it  has  been  well 
dried. 

Russian  Tea 

Add  a  slice  of  lemon  and  a  little  preserve — straw- 
berry, raspberry,  etc.,  to  tea,  served  hot  in  glasses. 

Watermelon  Balls 

Any  watermelon  left  over  can  be  attractively 
served  as  a  breakfast  fruit  by  cutting  it  into 
perfectly  round  balls  with  a  vegetable  scoop,  or  if 
this  is  not  at  hand,  cut  the  pulp  out  with  a  dessert- 
spoon into  oval-shaped  pieces,  chill,  and  serve  very 
cold. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER 
BEVERAGES 


It  is  always  well  to  measure  coffee  and  tea  when 
preparing  them  for  the  table,  so  there  shall  be  no 
left-overs.  But  there  are  occasions  when  a  re- 
mainder is  unavoidable.  In  those  cases  do  not 
allow  the  liquid  to  stand  on  the  grounds,  but  pour 
it  off  as  soon  as  the  meal  is  over.  As  for  grape- 
juice,  it  spoils  very  quickly  after  a  bottle  is  opened, 
so  it  should  be  used  promptly. 

Iced  Coffee  with  Milk 

Strain  the  coffee  carefully  so  there  are  no 
grounds.  Mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  rich 
sweet  milk  and  sweeten  as  desired,  stirring  until 
the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved.  Let  it  get  very 
cold  before  serving. 

Coffee  Jelly 

I  cup  good  clear  coffee     3  tablespoonfuls  cold 
^  cup  rich  milk  water 

^  cup  boiling  water         i  tablespoonful  granu- 
4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  lated  gelatine 

A  little  salt 
213 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  until  softened. 
Add  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  gelatine 
is  dissolved.  Mix  the  coffee,  milk,  sugar,  and 
salt  together,  and  add  them  to  the  gelatine.  Pour 
into  a  mold  and  set  away  to  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  or  plain  sweetened  cream  and  sprinkle 
the  top  with  rolled  macaroon-crumbs.  If  there  is 
no  cream,  serve  it  with  sliced  bananas  toned  up 
with  a  little  tart  fruit-juice. 

Clear  Coffee  Jelly 

i§  tablespoonf  uls     3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

gelatine  i  cup  clear  coffee 

i  cup  cold  water  Few  drops  lemon-juice 

^  cup  boiling  water         Sliced  bananas 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  melt  in  boiling  water, 
add  sugar,  coffee,  and  lemon-juice.  When  partly 
stiffened  stir  in  slices  of  banana.  Mold  and  serve 
with  rich  milk  or  whipped  cream  slightly  sweetened. 

Coffee  Blanc  Mange 

3  cups  scalded  milk        5  tablespoonfuls  corn- 
I  cup  strong  coffee  starch 

^  cup.  sugar  i   teaspoonful  butter 

Salt 

Blend  com-starch  with  some  of  the  cold  coffee, 
stir  with  remainder  into  scalded  milk,  add  sugar 
and  sprinkling  of  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler  five 
minutes,  then  over  fire  until  corn-starch  boils. 
Stir  in  butter  just  before  taking  up.  This  quantity 
of  corn-starch,  level  measurement,  makes  a  very 
delicate  blanc  mange.  If  preferred  firmer,  use  six 
tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 
214 


BEVERAGES 


Coffee  Ice-cream  (from  Custard) 

To  two  cups  of  left-over  or  fresh  custard  add 
one-half  cup  of  good  strong  coffee  and  one-half  cup 
of  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  sugar  enough  to  make  it 
quite  sweet.     Pour  into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 

Coffee  Pudding  (from  Sponge-cake) 

\  cup  butter  8  small,  stale  sponge- 

l  cup  sugar  cakes 

1  cup  strong  sweet-     3  yolks  eggs 

ened  coffee,  cold 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
beat  very  light.  Cut  sponge-cake  into  slices  and 
spread  with  creamed  mixture.  Pour  coffee  over 
cake,  put  in  mold,  let  stand,  and  turn  out  on  dish. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

,  Coffee  Spice  Calce 

J  cup  butter  i  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  2  cups  flour 

i  cup  cold  coffee  2  teaspoonfuls  mixed 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-  spices 

powder  |  teaspoonful  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well  together.  Add 
the  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  the 
batter  well.  Sift  together  the  flour,  baking- 
powder,  salt,  and  spices,  and  add  them  alternately 
with  the  cold  coffee.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  the  cake  shrinks  from  the  side  of  the  pan. 

Tea  Punch  No.  1 

Boil  together  for  five  minutes  a  quart  of  water, 
juice  of  three  lemons,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  th? 
^15 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

shaved  yellow  rind  of  the  lemons.  Add  a  pint  of 
cold  tea  (more  if  liked),  currant,  raspberry,  or 
grape  juice,  pieces  of  shredded  pineapple  (canned 
or  fresh),  and  sections  of  oranges.  Add  more 
sugar  if  necessary  and  pieces  of  ice.  Pour  in  a 
bottle  of  ApoUinaris  or  Vichy  just  before  serving. 

Tea  Punch  No.  2 

Pour  off  any  left-over  tea  from  the  leaves  at 
once,  and  if  extra  strong  dilute  with  a  little  boil- 
ing water  run  through  the  teapot.  To  a  quart  of 
such  liquid  add  one-half  cup  of  lemon-juice,  and 
sugar  to  sweeten  as  desired.  Stir  until  the  sugar 
is  entirely  dissolved.  Remove  the  rind  and  bitter 
white  portion  from  one  small  orange,  cut  into  thin 
slices,  and  each  slice  into  quarter  sections.  Add 
this  to  the  tea  and  set  away  to  get  very  cold. 

Cocoa  Filling  for  Cake 

Left-over  cocoa  can  easily  be  made  into  a  filling 
for  cake  by  adding,  two  tablespoonf uls  of  dissolved 
arrowroot  to  one  cup  of  cocoa,  reheating  to  the 
boiling-point,  adding  more  sugar  if  necessary,  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  a  little  salt. 
Remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the  egg  is  added. 
When  nearly  cool  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  spread  between  the  layers. 

Cocoa  and  Coffee  Icing 

I  cup  confectioner's        i  teaspoonful  butter 

sugar  I  teaspoonful  vanilla 

4  teaspoonfuls  cocoa       2    tablespoonfuls    of 

hot  cofjee 


BEVERAGES 


Reheat  any  cold  coffee  until  very  hot  and  blend 
it  with  the  cocoa.  Add  the  butter  and  stir  in  the 
sugar,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  the  vanilla, 
and  spread  at  once  on  a  slightly  warm  cake. 

Grape-juice  Charlotte 

1  cup  grape-juice  2  teaspoonfuls  granu- 

2  tablespoonfuls  lated  gelatine 

sugar  White  of  1  egg 

Lemon-juice  A  little  salt 

Lady-fingers 

Add  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water  to  the  gelatine 
and  soak  ten  minutes.  Melt  over  hot  water,  and 
add  with  the  sugar  to  the  grape-juice.  Stir  until 
the  sugar  dissolves.  Set  in  a  pan  of  cracked 
ice,  and  when  it  begins  to  harden  around  the  edge 
of  the  bowl,  beat  with  a  Dover  beater  until  the 
mass  becomes  thickened.  Then  fold  into  it  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  to  which  have  been 
added  the  salt,  lemon-juice,  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  while  beating.  Keep  on  ice  until  very 
cold  and  thick.  When  ready  to  serve,  unmold  in 
a  glass  dish  in  a  border  of  lady-fingers. 

Grape-juice  Jelly 

I   tablespoonful  gela-  i  cup  grape-juice 

tine  I  tablespoonful  lemon- 
\  cup  cold  water  juice 

\  cup  sugar  \  cup  boiling  water 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  until  softened,  add 
boiling  water,    and  stir  until   dissolved.     Put   in 
sugar,  lemon  and  grape- juice,  pour  into  bowl  or 
mold,  and  set  in  cold  place  to  form. 
217 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


V 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


15 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  LEFT-OVER  CAKE 


Mock  Plum  Pudding  (Cake) 

Two  cups  stale  cake-crumbs  softened  in  about 
one-quarter  cup  hot  milk.  If  crumbs  are  very 
dry  it  may  take  a  little  more  milk.  Add  to  the 
softened  crumbs 

I  well-beaten  egg  2  teaspoonfuls  mixed 

\  cup  sugar  spices 

\  cup  molasses  (Porto  \  teaspoonful  soda 

Rico)  i  teaspoonful  salt 

\  cup  stewed  prunes,  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon- 
chopped  juice 

f  cup  chopped  raisins  \  cup  flour 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  foamy  sauce. 

Foamy  Sauce 

\  cup  butter  4  tablespoonfuls      of 

f  cup  light-brown  sugar  cream      or     rich 

A    few    drops    lemon-  milk 

juice  I  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,   add  the  sugar  slowly,   and 
beat  until  very  light.     Add  the  cream  and  fiavor- 
223 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

ing  gradually.  When  ready  to  serve,  stand  the 
bowl  over  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  sauce 
is  foamy-looking. 

Coffee   Pudding  (from  Sponge-cake) 

See  page  215. 

Trifle 

Cut  stale  cake  into  slices  and  spread  preserves 
between  them.  Lay  in  a  deep  dish  and  heap  full 
of  whipped  cream. 

Banana-  and  Jam-Pudding 

In  a  buttered  earthen  baking  -  dish  slice  four 
good-sized  bananas.  Sprinkle  them  lightly  with 
lemon-juice,  and  cover  them  with  a  layer  of  any 
kind  of  tart  jam.  Cream  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  and  one  cup  of  fine  stale  cake-crumbs,  and 
a  little  salt.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
the  two  eggs  and  pour  the  mixture  over  the 
bananas  and  jam.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  half  an  hour.     Serve  at  once. 

Temperance  Tidbits 

Moisten  with  lemon-juice  enough  stale  lady- 
fingers  or  thin  slices  of  stale  sponge-cake  to  well 
cover  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  holding  a  quart. 
Make  a  soft  custard  by  seal  din  ^  two  cups  of  milk 
and  pouring  it  slowly  upon  two  beaten  egg  yolks, 
mixed  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  until  thickened.  Strain,  and  when 
224 


CAKE 


partly  cool  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
and  pour  over  the  cake.  When  ready  to  serve 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  lemon-juice  while 
beating.  Drop  lightly  by  spoonfuls  on  top  of 
the  custard,  and  put  a  few  bits  of  bright-colored 
jelly  on  the  meringue. 

Sponge-cake  Porcupine 

Cut  as  large  squares  as  possible  from  stale 
sponge-cake.  Place  in  pudding-dish,  moisten  with 
sweetened  orange- juice.  Blanch  almonds  and  press 
into  cake,  sharp  ends  up.  Prepare  soft  custard 
(see  page  202)  and  pour  over  all. 

Berry  Whip 

Fill  a  dish  with  slices  of  stale  sponge-cake. 
Sugar  a  quart  of  berries,  mash  them  slightly, 
and  pour  over  cake.  Beat  whites  of  three  eggs 
stiff,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar, 
and  beat  in  enough  berries  to  flavor  and  color. 
Heap  on  cake  and  serve  with  cream. 


MY    OWN    RECEIPTS 


DAINTY  DISHES  FROM  LITTLE  BITS 


Sandwiches 

It  IS  sometimes  advisable  to  utilize  the  cut  slices 
of  fresh  bread  that  are  left  over  by  making  them 
into  sandwiches  at  once,  and  serving  them  the 
same  day,  rather  than  putting  them  in  the  bread- 
box  and  running  the  risk  of  overlooking  them. 
Pack  them  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  a  napkin  dip- 
ped in  hot  water  and  wrung  out  very  dry,  and 
put  a  plate  over  them.  This  will  keep  them  per- 
fectly fresh  for  some  hours.  Many  little  dainty 
bits  can  be  used  in  their  preparation.  The  follow- 
ing combinations  will  be  found  acceptable: 

No.  1 

Make  a  paste  of  cooked  chicken  livers  with  melted 
butter.  Add  lemon-juice,  cayenne,  salt,  and 
chopped  olives.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of 
white  bread.  These  sandwiches  are  good  without 
the  olives. 

No.  2 

Moisten  flaked  smoked  whitefish  with  butter, 
add  chopped  sour  cucumber  pickles,  season  with 
mustard  paste  and  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  use  as 
a  sandwich  filling  with  white  bread. 
231 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

No.  3 

Finely  minced  salmon  and  cucumber  mixed  with 
salad  dressing. 

No.  4 

Sardines  and  hard-cooked  egg  yolk.  Remove  the 
skin  and  bones  from  the  sardines,  mash  them  to  a 
paste  with  the  egg,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
ind  a  little  lemon-juice. 

No.  5 

Equal  quantities  of  grated  cheese  and  butter 
creamed  together.  Spread  this  on  the  bread  and 
sprinkle  with  minced  watercress. 

No.  6 

Finely  chopped  peanuts  and  celery  mixed  with 
salad  dressing. 

No.  7 

Mix  well  together  chopped  nuts  and  raisins  and 
a  little  lemon-juice.  Heat  through,  let  cool,  and 
spread  on  Graham  crackers.  Press  together  lightly, 
and  crisp  in  moderate  oven. 


A  Use  for  Left-over  Fondant 

In  making  candy  from  fondant,  put  aside  all 
scrapings  from  utensils  used.  These  will  keep 
indefinitely  in  a  covered  glass  jar  in  cool,  dry 
place,  and  when  melted  with  a  very  little  hot 
water,  make  good  icing  for  small  cakes,  etc.  No 
strong  flavors,  as  peppermint  or  wintergreen, 
should  be  used. 

Filling  for  Tarts 

Take  any  odds  and  ends  in  the  way  of  jelly, 
preserves,  stewed  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces,  pudding 
232 


DAINTY  DISHES  FROM  LITTLE  BITS 

sauces,  bits  of  orange,  cake-crumbs  (dried  for  use 
as  bread  is  dried).  Combine  to  taste;  do  not 
have  any  one  ingredient  predominate,  as  there 
should  be  an  indefinite  flavor.  Sweeten  if  neces- 
sary; if  too  sweet  add  lemon-juice.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  it  is  of  right  consistency  and  looks 
rich.  This  mixture  will  keep  two  or  three  weeks 
if  kept  covered  in  a  glass  jar  in  a  cool  place. 

For  the  pastry  use  rule  for  "Plain  Pastry  for 
Four  Patty  Pies"  (see  page  27),  increasing  the 
shortening  to  half  as  much  again. 

Jerusalem  Pudding 

f  tablespoonful   gela-  Walnuts,  figs,    dates, 
tine  half  a  cup  together 

^  cup  boiling  water  J  teaspoonful  vanilla 

^  cup  cold  water  J  pint  heavy  cream 

I  tablespoonful  cook-  i  cup  powdered  sugar 
ed  rice  (dry) 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  when  softened  dis- 
solve in  hot  water.  Scald  fruit,  chop  with  nuts, 
and  add  with  rice  (beaten  soft)  to  gelatine.  Whip 
cream  stiff,  flavor,  sweeten,  and  fold  lightly  into 
gelatine  mixture.  Place  in  ice-box.  Serve  very 
cold,  turned  out  into  glass  dish. 

Frosted  Chocolate  (from  Left-over  Ice-cream) 

Add  milk  or  cream  and  bits  of  ice  to  any  left- 
over chocolate  ice-cream.  Serve  in  glasses.  The 
custard  should  always  be  turned  out  from  the 
freezer  can,  kept  as  cold  as  possible,  and  used  the 
same  day. 

233 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEPT-OVERS 

Marguerites  from  Left-over  Icing 

If  it  happens  that  there  is  any  boiled  icing  of 
any  sort  left  over,  set  it  at  once  in  hot  water  so  it 
will  not  harden.  Cut  two  marshmallows  in  small 
pieces  and  stir  them  into  the  warm  icing.  Pre- 
pare a  few  chopped  nuts  and  add  them,  together 
with  a  little  shredded  cocoanut.  Drop  by  tea- 
spoonfuls  on  saltines  or  zephyr  crackers,  and 
brown  delicately  in  the  oven. 

Dates  Stuffed  with  Left-over  Icing 

Add  enough  more  confectioner's  sugar  to  any 
left-over  uncooked  icing  to  make  it  quite  stiff, 
flavor  it  with  a  little  more  lemon-juice  or  vanilla, 
and  mix  in  a  few  chopped  peanuts.  Stuff  the 
dates  with  this  mixture. 

Meringues  (from  Left-over  Pie  Crust) 

Roll  bits  of  pie  crust  rather  thin,  cut  in  domino 
shapes,  prick  slightly  and  bake.  Spread  thickly 
with  any  kind  of  jam  or  marmalade.  Beat  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  lemon-juice  while 
beating,  pile  on  the  top,  and  brown  lightly  in  the 
oven. 


INDEX 


A 

Apple  .Charlotte,  199. 

Apple  and  Ginger  Fluff,  190.  • 

Apple  Sauce  Cake,   198. 

Apples,  Baked  (with  Pork),  38. 

Fried  (with  Pork),  39. 
Apricot  Sauce,   198. 
Asparagus,  Soup,   103. 

Tips  (with  Creamed  Chicken),  56. 

with  Cheese,   102. 

use  in  Vegetable  Sauce,  68. 

B 

Bacon  (and  Ham),  Section  on,  45-48. 
Bacon,  and  Liver  Hash,  47. 

with  Poached  Egg    (Yankee  Toast),  47. 

how  to  use  fat  from,  5. 
Banana  and  Jam  Pudding,  225. 
Beans  (Baked  Beans),  Rarebit,  104. 

Salad,  104. 

Soup,  103. 

and  Tomato  Purde,   103. 

Warmed  over,   104. 
Peef,  Septioj?  on,  7-18. 

m 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Beef,  Croquettes,   i8. 

Loaf,  9. 

Pie,  9. 

Roast  in  Tomato  Sauce,  8. 

Scallop,   18. 

Scallop  of  Roast  with  Rice,  14. 

Souffle,   10. 

Soup,   17. 
Beet,  Rice  and  Celery  Salad,  120. 
Beets,  Creamed,   105. 

General     use    in    garnishing,     see    various 
•receipts  under  Salads. 
Bermuda  Onion  and  Orange  Salad,   120. 
Berry  Whip,  225. 
Beverages,  Section  on,  213-217. 
Bird's-Nest  Toast,   151. 
Bisque,   (Mock)  Soup,  122. 
Bisque,  Oyster,  90. 

Blackberry  Jelly  (with  Gelatine),  199. 
Blanc  Mange,   188. 
Blanket  of  Veal,  33. 
Blueberry  Ice,  200. 

Bluefish,  use  for.     See  Salmon  Scallop,  92. 
Boneless  "Birds,"  58. 
Boston  Brown  Bread,  Receipt  for,  177. 

Brewis,  151. 

in  Crust  Coffee,  153. 

Relish,   151. 

Toast,  151. 
Boston  Scalloped  Fish,  84. 
Braised  Meat  Balls,  11. 
Bread,  Section  on,  149-160. 
Bread  Cereal,  153. 

Dry,  and  how  to  freshen,  150. 

236 


INDEX 


Bread  Griddle  Cakes,   150, 

Omelet,   i^i. 

Pudding,   154. 

Pudding  Steamed,   158. 

Pudding,  to  freshen,   140. 

Sauce,   153. 

Stale,  general  uses,   149. 

Steamed,   150. 

Sticks,   152. 
Breakfast  Straws,   178. 
Brewis  (from  Boston  Brown  Bread),   151. 
Broth,  Clam,  82. 
Brown  Betty,   155. 
Brown  Sauce,  70. 


Cabbage,  Creamed  in  Cheese  Shells,   105. 

Scallop,   105. 

Stuffed  with  Beef,   13. 
Cake,  Section  on,  223-225. 
Canapes,  Cheese,   167. 
Canapes,  Salmon,  90. 
Canning  Syrup,  use  for,  206. 
Cantaloup,  Stewed,  200. 
Caper  Sauce,  70. 

Caper  Sauce  in  Old  Homestead  Pie,  25. 
Carrot  Croquettes,   106. 
Carrots  with  Peas  in  Croustades,  105. 
Cauliflower,  Sauted,   106. 

in  Vegetable  Sauce,  68. 
Celery,  Cooked  with  Chicken  (Scallop),  55. 

Escalloped,   107. 

Leaves,  for  Seasoning,   10 1. 

Soup,   106. 

237 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Celery,  Toast,  107. 

with  Peanuts  in  Sandwiches,  No.  6,  232. 

in  Vegetable  Sauce,  68. 
Cereal,  Section  on,  131-143. 
Cereal,  in  Griddle  Cakes,   132. 

Molded  with  Fruit,  132. 

Muffins,   143. 

with  Tomato  Salad,  132. 

in  Tomato  Salad  with  Fish,  124. 
Cheese,  Section  on,  165-172. 
Cheese,  Canapes,   167. 

with  Creamed  Sprouts,  166. 

Dreams,   167. 

and  Fish  Souffl6,   169. 

and  Green  Peppers,   170. 

Macaroons,   168. 

Sandwiches  (of  Biscuits),   167. 

in  Sandwiches,  No.  5,  232. 

Sauce,  69. 

Shells  with  Creamed  Cabbage,   169. 

Souffle,   170. 

Soup,   170.        V 

Toast,   168. 
Cheesed  Rice,  No.   i,   165. 
Cheesed  Rice,  No.  2,   166. 
Cherry  Pudding,   156. 
Chicken,  Broth,  use  for,  60. 

and  Cream-of-Rice  Soup,  60. 

Creamed,   54. 

Creamed  with  Asparagus  tips,  56. 

Croquettes,  55. 

Custard,  60. 

Gumbo  Soup,  60. 

Hash,  57. 

238 


INDEX 


Chicken,   Pie,   58. 

and  Rice  Souffle  Scallop,  59. 
Salad,  S3' 

Salad,  Mock  (of  Pork),  39. 
Scallop  with  Celery,  55. 
Souffle,   57. 

Tamale  Dressing,   57. 
(or  Turkey)  Timbale,   54. 
Chocolate  Bread  Pudding,   154. 
Chowder,   Baked,  S^. 
Clam  Broth,  82. 
Clams,  with  Veal,  38.  . 
Club  Sandwiches,   54. 
Cocoa  and  Coffee  Icing,  216. 
Cocoa  Filling  for  Cake,  216. 
Codfish,  Creamed,  with  Macaroni,  93. 
Codfish  Scallop  with  Rice  and  Eggs,  93. 
Coffee,  Blanc  Mange,  214. 

and  Cocoa  Icing,  216. 

of  Crusts,   153. 

Ice  Cream  (from  Custard),  215. 

Iced,  with  Milk,  213. 

Jelly,  213. 

Jelly,  Clear,  214. 

Spice  Cake,  215. 
Cold  Sauces  and  Dressings,  72-75. 
Cooked  Salad  Dressing,   75. 
Corn,  Baked,   109. 

Bread,   179. 

Cakes,   108. 

Cakes,  Southern,   134. 

"Oysters,"  107. 

Pudding,   109. 

Soup,   108. 

16  239 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Corn  in  Tomato  Cases,   io8. 

Cornmeal  Circles,   131. 

Corn-starch  Pudding,   200. 

Corned  Beef,  Creamed,   16. 

Corned  Beef  Hash,   16. 

Corned  Beef  and  Beet  Hash,   16. 

Cottage  Cheese,  No.   i,   179. 

Cottage  Cheese,   No.   2,   179. 

Crab  Meat,  Stuffed  in  Green  Peppers,  94. 

Cream  Cheese,  in  Balls,   170. 

on  Crackers,   168. 

and  Green  Peppers,   170. 

Salad,   167. 
Cream  Filling  for  Cake,  201. 
Cream  Puffs  (from  Pop-overs),   159. 
Croquettes,  Chicken,   55. 

Mutton  or  Lamb,  26. 

Salmon,  91. 

with  Stock,  36. 
Croustades,   105-106. 
Croutons,   149. 
Croutons,  Potato,    115. 
"Crust"  Coffee,   153. 
Cucumbers,  Stewed,   no. 
Currant  Pudding,   155. 
Custard,  in  Coffee  Ice  Cream,  215. 
Custard,  Soft,  202. 


Dainty  Dishes  from  Little  Bits,  Section  on, 

231-234. 
Dates  Stuffed  with  Left-over  Icing,  234. 
Drawn  Butter  Sauce,  70. 
240 


INDEX 


Dressings,   72-75. 
Duckling  Stew,  61. 
Dumplings,  Meat,   14. 

E 
Egg  Sauce,  69. 

Eggs,  Whites  and  Yolks,  Section  on,  187-191, 
Eggs,  Cooked  and  left-over,  general  use,    187. 

Hard  cooked,  with  Creamed  Ham,  46. 

Hard  cooked,  with  Jellied  Veal,  34. 

Poached,  with  Bacon,  47. 

Poached  and  left-over,  187. 
Eggless  Cookies,  180. 
Eggplant,  Scallop  of,   no. 
Emergency  Biscuits,   178. 
Emergency  Salad,  201. 


Farina,  with  Baked  Apples,  132. 

Pancakes,   132. 

Sponge,   132. 
Filling  for  Tarts,  232. 
Fire  Island  Stew,  9. 
Fish,  Section  on,  81-96. 
Fish,  Baked  in  Pepper  Cases,  84. 

Balls,  87. 

Cakes,  86. 
Fish,  and  Cheese  Souffle,  169. 

Cocktail,  82. 

Cold  with  HoUandaise,  82. 

Creamed,  83. 

Creamed  in  Potato  Cups,  86. 

with  Creamed  Oysters,  83. 
241 


THE     COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Fish,  Fried,  with  Tomatoes  (Scallop),  95. 

Hash,  94. 

Jellied,  88. 

Loaf,  85. 

Melange,  89. 

with  Mushrooms,  85. 

with  Pie  Crust,  94. 

Boiled,  in  Potato  Border,  81. 

Salad,  in  Green  Peppers,  87. 

Spiced,  with  White  Sauce,  82. 

with  Spinach  Croquettes,   117. 

in  Tomato  Salad  with  Cereal,   124. 
Floating  Island,  187. 
Foamy  Sauce,  223. 
Fondant,  use  for,  232. 
French  Dressing  No.   i,  73. 
French  Dressing,   No.  2,   73. 
Frosting,    189. 

Fruit,  Section  on,   197-208. 
Fruit  Cocktail,  201.  ^ 

Fruit  Macedoine,   197. 
Fruit  Macedoine  (Stewed),   198. 
Fruit  Sago,  206. 
Fruit  Sauce  (Mixed),  205. 
Fruit  Souffle,  202. 
Fruit  '^hip,  206. 

G 

German  Pot  Cheese  Cake,   168. 
Gingerbread  (from  Sotir  Milk),   180. 
Gold  Cakes,   191. 
Graham  Bread,  receipt  for,   180. 
Graham  Pu4ding,  Spiced,   157. 

?4? 


INDEX 


Grape-fruit,  Spiced,   203. 

Grape- juice  Charlotte,   217. 

Grape-juice  Jelly,   217. 

Green  Pea  Salad,    120. 

Green  Pea  Salad  in  Egg  Cases,   121. 

Greens,  Salad  of,   119. 

H 

Ham  (and  Bacon),  Section  on,  45-48. 
Ham,  Cakes,  47. 

Creamed,  46. 

and  Eggs,  Baked,  45. 

with  Macaroni,  45. 

Omelet,  46. 

Sandwich  Filling,  47. 
Hard  Sauce,   158. 
Hash,  Chicken,  57. 

Corned  Beef,   16. 

Corned  Beef  and  Beet,   16. 

Liver  and  Bacon,  47. 
Hollandaise  Sauce,   72. 
Hominy,  Balls,   133. 

with  Bacon,   134. 

and  Cheese  Souffl6,   133. 

Fried,  in  Sardine  Relish,  96.  ^ 

Griddle  Cakes,  134;   See    also    Wheatena 
Griddle  Cakes,   143. 

Pudding,   134. 
Horseradish  Sauce,   7. 
Hotel  Club  Sandwiches,  54. 
Huckleberry  Dumplings,  203. 
Huckleberry  Pudding,  204. 


'43 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 


Ice-Cream   (Chocolate),  if  left-over,    see   Frosted 

Chocolate,  233. 
Ice-Cream  (Coffee),  receipt  for,  215. 
Ice-Cream,  Emergency,   189. 
Icing,  use    if   left-over.      See   Marguerites,  234, 

and  Stuffed  Dates,  234. 
Indian  Pudding  (Mock),   155. 
Irish  Potato  Cake,   116. 
Irish  Rissoles,  14. 

J 

Jellied  Fish,  88. 

Jellied  Tomato  Salad,   123. 

Jellied  Veal,  34. 

Jelly  Whip,  202. 

Jerusalem  Pudding,  233. 

K 
Kedjeree,  89. 
Kidney  Bean  Salad,   119. 
Kitchen  bouquet,  use  in  sauces,  see  Note,  71. 


Lady-fingers.     See  Cake  Section,  223-225. 
Lamb  (and  Mutton),  Section  on,  23-28. 
Lamb,  in  Ambush,  24. 

Chartreuse  (in  Ambush).     See  above. 

Scallop,  26. 

Turkish  Style,    23. 
Lamb's  Liver  Hash,   27. 
Lemon  Cups  for  Dressing,  204. 
Lemon  Sauce,  No.   i,   142. 
244 


INDEX 


Lemon  Sauce,   No.   2,   155. 

Lemon  Syrup  for  Lemonade,   204. 

Lettuce  (Cream  of)  Soup,   no. 

Level  Measurements,  4. 

Lima  Bean  Soup,   112. 

Lincoln  Pudding  (Rice),   141. 

Liver  and  Bacon  Hash,  47. 

Liver,  Minced,  47. 

Lobster,  see  Croquettes  with  Stock,  36. 

M 

Macaroni,  Baked,  in. 

in  Cheese  Shells,  in. 

in  Fire  Island  Stew,  9. 

with  Ham,  45. 

Savory,   in. 

with  Smoked  Beef,   in. 

in  Tomato  Cases,   in. 
Mac^doine  Fruit,  see  Fruit  Macedoine,  197. 
Macedoine  Garnish,  10 1. 
Maitre  d'Hdtel  Butter,  74. 
Maple  Sauce,   158. 
Marrow,  deviled,  on  Crackers,  17. 
Matzoth,  190. 
Mayonnaise  Dressing,  74. 
Melange,   Fish,  89. 
Meringue   (from  Pie  Crust),  234. 
Meats,  Section  on,  5-48. 
Measurements,  4. 
Meat  Dumplings,   14. 
Milk  Toast,   152. 
Minced  Beef,  Potato  Border,  13. 
Minced  Liver,  47. 

245 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OP    LEFT-OVERS 

Mixed  Salad   (Italian),    119. 

Mock  Bisque  Sauce  with  Cheese,  71. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,   122. 

Mock  Chicken  Salad,  39. 

Mock  Lobster,  84. 

Mock  Plum  Pudding,  223. 

Mushroom  Sauce,  69. 

Mushroom  Sauce  (with  Chicken  Timbale),  54. 

Mushrooms.     See  Vegetable  Sauce,  68. 

Mustard  Sauce,  75. 

Mutton  (and  Lamb),  Section  on,  23-28. 

N 

New  England  Pan  Pie,   157. 

Nuts  with  Raisins  in  Sandwiches,  No.   7,   232. 

O 

Oatmeal  Bread,  135. 

Browned,   135. 
•      Gruel,   135. 

Molded  with  Raisins,   135. 
Old  Homestead  Pie,  25. 
Olive  Sauce,  71. 

Olive  Sauce  (with  Sliced  Lamb),  23. 
Omelet,  Bread,  152. 

Ham,  46. 

with  Vegetables,  102. 
Onion  and  Potato  Scallop,   112. 
Orange  and  Bermuda  Onion  Salad,   120. 
Orange  Baskets,  207. 
Orange  Peel,  207. 
Orange  Peel  Candied,  207. 
Oriental  Stew,  24 

?46 


INDEX 


Oyster  Bisque,   90, 
Oysters,  with  Panned  Lamb,  28. 
Oysters,   with  Veal  Scallop,  34. 
"Oysters"   (Com),  107. 


"Pandowdy,"  157. 

Panned  Lamb  (with  Oysters),  28. 

Parsley  Leaves,  for  Seasoning,   10 1. 

Parsnip  Cakes,   112. 

Passover  dish  (Matzoth),  190. 

Pastry  for  Patty  Pies,  27. 

Pea  Salad,   120. 

Pea  Salad  in  Egg  Cases,  121. 

Pea  Soup,   112. 

Peas,  use  in  Vegetable  Sauce,  68. 

Peach  Pudding,   205. 

Peach  Sauce,   205. 

Peach  Tapioca,   204. 

Peppers,  Stuffed,  with  Beef,   12. 

Peppers,  Stuffed,  with  Crab  Meat,  94. 

Pie,  Beef,  9. 

Chicken,   58. 

Old  Homestead  (Mutton),  25. 
Pies,  Patty  Pan,  27. 
Pie  Crust  (left-over),  for  Cheese  Sticks,  169. 

for  Meringues,  234. 
Pilau,  24. 

Pop-overs  (for  Cream  Puffs),  159. 
Pork  (and  Veal),  Section  on,  33-40. 
Pork,  with  Fried  Apples,  39. 

(fresh),  with  Baked  Apples,  38. 
Roast,  and  Cabbage  Scallop,  39. 

?47 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Pork,  for  Chicken  Salad,  39. 

Savory  Fresh,  38. 
Pot  Cheese  Cake,   168. 
Pot  Roast  Pie,   10. 
Potato,  Baked,  and  Cheese  Scallop,  113. 

Balls,  115. 

with  Cheese,  116. 

Chopped,  112. 

Creamed,  115. 

Croutons,   115. 

Cups,  86. 

and  Onion  Scallop,  112 

Patties,  114. 

Pyramids,   114. 

Salad,   113. 

Salad,  Hot,  120. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  114. 

Soup,  with  Turnips,  Cream  of,  125. 

Stewed,  113. 
Potato  Flour,  where  to  buy,  3;  use  for,  67. 
Poulette  Sauce,  69. 
Poultry,  Section  on,  53-61. 
Pur6e  of  Vegetable,  102. 


Raisin  Sauce,  159. 
Rarebit,  Baked  Bean,  104. 

Tomato,  166. 

Welsh,  171. 

Welsh  (Mock),  171. 
Rice,   with  Apples,  136. 

with  Roast  Beef  Scallop,  14. 

Beet  and  Celery  Salad,  120. 
248 


INDEX 


Rice,    Cheesed,  No.   i,   165. 

Cheesed,   No.   2,   166. 

in  Cheese  Shells,   137. 

Croquettes,  Sweet,   142. 

in  Griddle  Cakes,   141- 

Custard,  No.   i,   139. 

Custard,  No.  2,  140. 

Muffins,   138. 

Omelet,   137. 

Pudding,  Baked,  140. 

Pudding  (with  Com  Starch),  141. 

Pudding,  German,  139. 

Pudding  (Lincoln),   141. 

Pudding,  how  to  freshen,  140. 

and  Sausage  Cakes,  48. 

Soup,  with  Vegetables,   138. 

Soup,  Cream  of  Rice  and  Chicken,  60. 

with  Tomatoes,  No.   i,  137. 

with  Tomatoes,  No.  2,  137. 
Risotto,   139. 
Rissoles,  Irish,   14. 
Russian  Tea,  208. 

S 

Salad. — For  all  Vegetable  Salads,  see  pages 

118-122. 
Salad,  Chicken,  53. 

Chicken,  Mock  (Pork),  39. 

Cream  Cheese,   167. 

Emergency  (Fruit  and  Nut),  201. 
•  Fish,  in  Green  Peppers,  87. 

Fish  and  Potato,  89. 

Potato,  113. 

249 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Salad,  Potato,  Hot,  120. 

Salmon,  92. 

Shad  Roe,  87. 
Salmon,  Canapes,  90. 

Croquettes,  91. 

with  Cucumbers  for  Sandwiches,     No.     3, 
232. 

Loaf,  92. 

Salad,  92. 

Scallop,  92, 

Smoked,  93. 

Soup,  91. 
Sandwiches,  Club,  54. 

Roast  Beef,  Hot,   8. 

See  also  group  on  pages  231-232. 

Ham  Filling  for,  47. 
Sardines,  Broiled  on  Toast,  95. 

Relish,  96. 

Sandwiches,  with  Hard-cooked  Eggs,   232. 

Sandwiches,  Toasted,  96. 

with  Tomato  Catsup,  95. 
Sauces,  Section  on,  67-75. 
Sausage  and  Rice  Cakes,  48. 
Savory  Meat,   18. 
Savory  Tomato  Sauce,   71. 
Scrambled  Eggs,   190. 
Shad  Roe  Salad,  87. 
Shepherd's  Pie,   15. 

Shortcakes   (individual),  with  Stewed  Fruit,   206. 
Snow  Pudding,   188. 
Soft  Custard,   202. 
Soup  Meat,  in  Beef  Croquettes,   18.  • 

in  Savory  Meat,   18. 
Sour  Milk  and  Cream,  Section  on,   i 77-181. 
250 


INDEX 


Sour  Cream  Dressing,   75. 

Sour  Cream  Filling  for  Cake,    181. 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes,   178. 

Sour  Milk  Gingerbread,   180. 

Spanish  Stew,   25. 

Spice  Cake,   181. 

Spinach,  with  Baked  Eggs,   118. 

Creamed  in  Carrot  Cups,   117. 

Croquettes  (with  Fish),   117. 

Salad,   121. 
Sponge  Cake,  for  Coffee  Pudding,  224. 
Sponge  Cake  Porcupine,   225. 
Sprouts,  Creamed,  with  Cheese,   166. 
Squash  Pudding,   118. 
Stale    Bread,    general   use,   149;   also    Section  ou 

Bread  throughout. 
Stock,  use  of,  67. 
Succotash,   104. 
Supplies,  general,  3. 
Surprise  Biscuits,   12. 
Sweet  Potatoes,  Browned,  117. 

Croquettes,  117. 
Syrup  from  canning,  use  for,  206. 


Tamale  Dressing  (Chicken),  57. 
Tartare  (Sauce),  74. 
Tea  Punch  No.   i,  215. 
Tea  Punch  No,  2,  216, 
Tea,  Russian,   208. 
Temperance  Tidbits,   224. 
Toast,  Bird's-Nest,   151. 
Milk,   152. 

?5» 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 

Toast,  Soft  Buttered,   152. 

Pudding,   158. 

Tomato,   124. 

Tomato  and  Cheese,   125. 
Trimmings  (Meat).     See  page  5,  on  Intelligent 
Buying  of  Meat;    also  Braised  Meat 
Balls,  ii. 
Trifle,  224. 

Turkey,  Timbale,  54;  0/50  chicken  receipts. 
Turnip  and  Potato  Soup,  Cream  of,  125. 
Tomato,  Cases  (with  Corn),  108. 

Paste,  124. 

Paste,  where  to  buy,  3. 

Rarebit,  166. 

Salad,  Jellied,  123. 

Salad  (with  Cereal  and  Fish),  124. 

Sauce  (Savory),  71. 

Sauted  with  Sauce,   122. 

Scalloped,   123. 

with  Scrambled  Eggs,   123. 

Toast,   124. 

Toast,  Tomato  and  Cheese,   125. 
Twentieth  Century  Hash,   12. 


U 


Utensils,  3. 


Vanilla  Sauce,  156. 

Veal  (and  Pork),  Section  on,  33-40. 
Veal,  in  Batter,  35. 
Blanket  of,  33. 

252 


INDEX 


Veal,    with  Clams,  38. 

Creamed,  on  Biscuits,  35. 

Croquettes,  with  Stock,  36. 

Jellied,  34. 

Loaf,  37. 

and  Potato  Puff,  35. 

Rolls,  36. 

and  Sago  Soup,  37. 

Scallop,  38. 

Scallop  with  Oysters,  34. 

on  Toast,  37. 
Victoria  Meat,   59. 

Veau  d  la  Blanquette  (Blanket  of  Veal),  ^^, 
Vegetables,  Section  on,  101-125. 
Vegetable  Hash,  102. 
Vegetable  Salads,   1 18-122. 
Vegetable  Sauce,  68. 
Vegetarian  Loaf,   159. 

w 

Watermelon  Balls,  208. 

Welsh  Rarebit,   171. 

Welsh  Rarebit  (Mock),   171. 

Wheatena  Griddle  Cakes,   143. 

White  Cake,   188. 

White  Sauce  No.   i,  67. 

No.   I,  A,  68. 

No.  2,  68. 

No.  3,  68. 

No.  4,  68. 
Whites  (and  Yolks)  of  Eggs,  Section  on,  187- 

191. 
Winter  Salad,   121. 

253 


THE    COOK    BOOK    OF    LEFT-OVERS 


Yankee  Toast,  47. 

Yolks  (and  Whites)  of  Eggs,  Section  on,  187- 
191. 


THE   END 


RETURN    BIOSCIENCE  &  NATURAL  RESOURCES  LIBI 
TO  ^-»-     2101  VALLEY  LIFE  SCIENCES  BLDG.     642 


LOAN  PERIOD  1 

2          -.v.:-;.    -. 

3 

4 

^  7  DAY5 

6 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  D/ 


DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 


mm 


OCT  1  U  1!I9S 


REC'D  ti\Oi: 


0Cr21'96-9'fM 


,JAN  0  3  ZOOT 


;UBJECTTOR^'"'' 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


C0E73bmTl 


