COOK  BOOK 


Published   by 

American  Legion  Auxiliary 

Eureka,     California 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


TREES 

"I  love  to  look  upon  an  old,  old  tree 

Because  it  seems  to  grow  eternally: 

It  does  not  ask  (or  any  special  care 

But  just  a  place  to  live  and  grow  somewhere. 

There's  something  'bout  a  tree  that  is  divine; 
The  Lordly  Oak,  the  Red  Wood  and  the  Pine 
All  lift  their  heads  above  this  earthly  show 
And  anchor  deeper  with  the  winds  that  blow. 

Trees  bridge  the  future,  present  and  the  past, 
The  only  living  things  that  seem  to  last, 
The  centuries  come,  the  centuries  go 
But  Cod's  own  trees  just  grow  and  grow. 

All  other  life  upon  the  earth  gives  way 
To  trees,  but  they  somehow  do  longer  stay; 
The  Forest  Kings,  majestic  noble  Sages 
Live  on;  God's  sentinels  of  the  Ages. 

Of  all  the  things  that  I  might  wish  to  be 

1  think  that  I  would  rather  be  a  tree 

To  live  with  arms  outstretched  to  .Heaven  above 

And  grow  in  understanding  and  in  love." 


COOK  BOOR 


SEQUOIA    PARK 
Published    by 

American  Legion   Auxiliary 

Eureka,      California 

Eureka  Printing  Co.  "^^^»  Eureka,  California 


FOREWORD 


The  Ladies'  of  the  American  Legion  Auxiliary  give  to  you  greeting,  citi- 
zens of  Eureka  and  Humboldt  County  and  thank  you  for  your  many  past 
kindness  to  our  organizteion. 

Our  object  is  to  help  by  all  means  in  our  powef,  the  advancement  of  our 
county.  Much  can  be  done  by  women  because  they  are  gifted,  naturally, 
in  the  art  of  homemaking,  and  can  see  that  the  many  little  graces  that  serve 
to  adorn  a  home,  making  it  a  home  instead  of  an  abiding  place  only. 

These  little  adorments  are  what  we  want  to  add  to  the  natural  beauties  of 
our  county. 

We  hope  for  the  continued  support  and  co-operation  of  the  men  and  wo- 
men of  Eureka  and  Humboldt  County,  and  cordially  invite  the  ladies  to  join 
with  us  in  our  work. 


CONTENTS 


Bread,   Biscuits,   Etc 3-  5 

Cakes    6-13 

Cake   Icing   13-14 

Cookies    .'. 15-21 

Puddings    22-26 

Pies 26-29 

Soups 31-32 

Meats    33-40 

Vegetables  and  Meat  Substitutes  40-44 

Salad 45-48 

Salad    Dressing 49-50 

Relishes,   Preserves,  Etc 51-55 

Ices 56-57 

Candy  Making 58-60 

Hints  to .  Housekeepers  61 

Equivalents   of   Capacity  62 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 


Brown  Bread 

Two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  white  flour,  two-thirds  cup  of  New 
Orleans  molasses,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sour  milk,  one'  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup  of  nuts  or  raisins.  Bake  slowly  about  forty- 
five  minutes.  MRS.  SELLERS. 

Grapenut  Bread 

Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Make  a  hole  in  the 
mixture  and  add  one  unbeaten  egg  and  three-fourths  cup  of  milk.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  fold  in  one  cup  of  grapenuts.  Bake  in  one  loaf  from  one- 
half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Brown  Bread 

One  cup  of  white  flour,  one  cup  of  cornmeal,  one  cup  of  Graham  flour. 
two  and  one-fourth  teaspoons  cf  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  three-fourths  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  sour  milk. 
Batter  must  not  be  too  dry.  Fill  baking  powder  cans  two-thirds  full  and 
steam  three  hours  or  in  one  large  tin  three  and  one-half  hours. 

Nut  Bread 

Sift  three-cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  slightly  rounded  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  one  egg  well  beaten  with  one 
cup  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts  or  raisins.  Turn  into  a  pan  and 
let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  bake  about  forty-five  minutes. 

Sweet  Milk  Nut  Bread 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  white  flour,  one 
cup  of  Graham  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one  cup  of  walnut  meats.  Beat  egg  slightly,  add  sugar,  milk,  salt,  then  the 
flour  and  nut  meats.  Bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour. 

Gingerbread 

Cream  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Add  one-half 
cup  of  molasses,  one  egg  lightly  beaten  and  mixed  with  one-half  cup  of 
sour  cream  or  milk,  then  stir  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour  sifted 
again  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cin- 
namon and  ginger.  Bake  in  a  sheet  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 

(Continued) 


Corn  Cake 

Two  cups  of  cornmeal,  one  cup  of  flour,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  salt,  two  cups  of  sour  milk  and  two  tablespoons  of  melted 
shortening. 

Sour  Milk  Nut  Bread 

One  cup  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  white  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups 
sour  milk,  two-thirds  cup  syrup,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda.  Add  one  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats,  raisins  or  dates.  Bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  a  modern  oven.  EDNA  IRONS. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  of 
lard,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  milk  enough  to  roll  out.  Knead  and 
roll  out  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness.  Spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with 
three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Roll  and  cut  into  about 
two  inch  thickness.  Bake  immediately.  MRS.  G.  W.  JAMES. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

One  quart  flour,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt ; 
Sift  together  twice.  Mix  two-thirds  cup  shortening  thoroughly  into  flour; 
add  enough  milk  to  make  soft  dough;  mix  lightly  with  fingers  until  velvety; 
roll  out;  brush  top  with  milk  and  cut  out.  Bake  in  hot  oven. 

MASIE  L.  HARPER. 
Biscuits 

One  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  of 
lard,  one  third  teaspoon  of  salt,  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Cut  the 
lard  in  with  a  knife.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  biscuit  before  baking. 
These  may  be  made  in  the  morning  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to 
bake.  MRS.  A.  J.  QUINN. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins 

One-half  cup  of  cornmeal,  one  and  one-half  level  cups  of  flour,  four  level 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-third  cup  of 
sugar,  one  egg  and  one  yolk,  two-thirds  cups  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter.  Sift  dry  ingredients  beat  egg,  add  milk  and  stir  into  dry 
ingredients;  add  butter  and  mix  well.  Put  in  hot,  well  greased  muffin  pan. 
Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes..  MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Scones 

One  pint  of  flour  measured,  lightly  sifted  with  three  level  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  and  a  scant  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  tablespoon  or  sugar. 
Work  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  into  the  flour,  then  add  the  egg  and  milk 
which  has  been  beaten  together,  keeping  out  a  little  to  brush  the  scones 
with.  Turn  out  and  roll  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  having  dough  as  soft  as 
you  can  handle.  Cut  in  squares  a  little  bigger  than  a  soda  cracker.  Turn 
over  making  a  three  cornered  piece;  brush  over  with  liquid  and  bake. 
When  done,  place  strawberry  jam  or  orange  marmalade  between  the 
scones.  Serve  warm.  MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  ETC. 

(Continued) 


Waffles 

One  egg  well  beaten,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
about  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  three-fourths  teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  tablespoon  of  melted  short- 
ening. Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will  pour. 

EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 

Sweet  Milk  Waffles 

One  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour,  two  rounding  teaspoons  ol  taking 
powder,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs  and  one 
teaspoon  of  melted  butter.  Have  your  bowl  ready  and  into  it  sift  flour,  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Add  one  cup  of  milk  slowly  and  the  well  beaten  egg 
yolks.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  stiffy  beaten  whites  and  lastly  the 
melted  butter.  MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 

Hot  Biscuits 

Two  level  cups  of  sifted  flour,  four  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  to  four  level  tablespoons  of  shortening  and  three- 
fourths  cup  of  milk.  MAE  CAMPTON  FALK. 

Nut  Bread 

Three  cups  of  flour,  six  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  walnuts,  one  egg  and  one  cup  of  sweet  milk. 
Mix  well,  then  add  walnuts  mixed  in  flour.  Put  in  greased  loaf  pan;  let 
stand  fiften  minutes  and  bake  forty-five  minutes, 

MAY  CAMPTON  FALK. 


HEADQUARTERS  FOR- 


Comfy  Slippers 
Daniel  Green 


533-535 

Fifth  St. 


ES  p 


UUTERYl 


Phone  175 
Eureka 


CAKES 


Prune  Cake 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  ot 
cooked  and  seeded  prunes,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  cup  of  prune  juice.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  well  beaten  eggs,  then  prunes.  Sift  flour,  soda,  salt,  one-half  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves  and  add  alternately  with  prune  juice.  Lastly, 
add  the  raisins  with  the  flour.  Filling:  Six  tablespoons  of  cream,  three 
tablespoons  of  butter;  put  on  the  stove  until  the  butter  melts,  add  enough 
powdered  sugar  to  thicken,  one-half  a  cup  of  walnuts  and  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.  -MRS.  DAYTOX  MURRAY. 

Spice  Cake 

Beat  together  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  beaten  eggs,  one 
cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted 
in  it,  one-half  a  cup  of  raisins  and  one-half  cup  of  currants.  Season  with 
nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Make  a  large  cake  which  will  keep  well. 

MRS.  M.  A.  BRANDT. 

Potato  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  fresh  mashea 
potatoes,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
chocolate,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
one  cup  of  nuts  and  egg  whites.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  mashed  po- 
tatoes, then  stir  in  dry  ingredients.  Add  nuts  dredged  in  flour  and  lastly 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Plain  Cake  ' 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  out 
cup  of  milk,  two  level  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  flavoring. 
For  chocolate  cake  add  two  teaspoons  of  chocolate.  Chocolate  Filling: 
Beat  well  ten  cents  worth  of  sweet  butter  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
rolled  powdered  sugar.  Beat  well,  add  four  tablespoons  of  ground  choco- 
late and  enough  boiling  water  to  dissolve,  then  add  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
lastly  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  MRS.  LEVER. 


HARDWARE    GEMS 
Bridge  and  Beach  Ranges 

Baker  &  Crosby 


.  F.  Ferri 


INSURANCE 


725  Fifth  St. 


Eureka 


CAKES 

(Continued) 


Coffee  Cake 

Two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  cold  strong  coffee,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoon  of  soda  stirred  into  the  molasses,  three  and  one-fourth 
cups  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  raisins.  MRS.  B.  M.  ADAMS. 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk, 
whites  of  six  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder;  take  two  teacups  of  bat- 
ter and  add  two  tablespoons  grated  chocolate;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put 
in  pan  as  other  marble  cake  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  LEVER. 
Ice  Box  Cake 

Butter  a  spring  form  with  cold  butter  and  line  with  lady  fingers,  standing 
them  on  end  around  the  form  to  hold  in  place  when  the  rim  is  removed.  Put 
one  cup  of  grated  chocolate  on  the  stove  with  enough  table  cream  to  melt 
(about  one-fourth  a  pint).  Into  this  stir  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  one-half  cup  of  sugar  slowly.  When  perfectly  cool,  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites.  Then  place  in  spring  form,  layer  of  lady  fingers  and  layer  of  filling, 
alternately,  until  used.  Place  in  ice  box  for  twenty-four  hours.  Just  before 
serving,  cover  top  with  Charlotte  Russe  cream.  Use  about  fifty  cents  worth 
of  lady  fingers  cut  in  two.  MRS.  F.  BRIDGES. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  fat,  one  and  one-fourth 
cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cinna- 
mon, three  heaping  tablespoons  of  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  melted  butter,  milk,  then 
flour.  Sift  the  chocolate,  baking  powder  and  cinnamon  together.  Beat 
quite  well  and  bake  in  layers  or  loaf.  This  makes  a  fine  economical  caKc. 

MAY  CAMPTON  FALK. 
White  Cake 

Two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  egg  yolks,  one  cup  miiK, 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  five  level  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  four  egg  whites,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  Almond 
extract,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  half  teaspoon  lemon.  Cream  butter  until 
light,  add  sugar  gradually  and  keep  on  creaming  until  nearly  white,  then  add 
the  yolks  beaten  until  stiff  and  light  colored;  add  the  milk,  then  the  sifted 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Fold  whites  in  last.  MAE  CAMPTON  FALK. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF- 


The 


Kandy  Kitchen 

531  FIFTH  ST.  EUREKA,  CAL. 


CAKES 

(Continued) 

1 

I 

Calla  Cakes 

Three  eggs,  one  level  cupful  of  sugar,  two  table  spoons  cold  water,  one 
level  cupful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder;  beat  eggs  well.  Add 
sugar  and  then  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  last  the  cold  water.  Drop  by 
tablespoonsful  on  greased  and  floured  tin.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until 
light  brown.  While  still  hot  roll  into  the  shape  of  a  cornucopia  and  tie 
with  a  string  to  keep  in  shape..  When  cold  fill  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream  flavored  with  vanilla.  Add  powdered  sugar  to  an  egg  yolk  until  stiff 
enough  to  mold  in  hands,  using  this  to  form  stamens  for  center  of  each 
lily.  This  recipe  makes  twelve  callas.  MRS.  CHAS.  EAST. 

Date  and  Nut  Cake 

One-half  pound,  or  one-half  package  dates.  Cu't  up  but  not  too  fine ;  put 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  over  dates  and  then  pour  one  cup  boiling  water  over 
dates;  set  to  cool;  then  mix  three  tablespoons  shortening,  level;  one  egg, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Pour  dates  and  water  into 
second  mixture.  Add  nuts,  cinnamon  and  cloves  may  be  added.  Bake  slow- 
ly for  nearly  an  hour.  MRS.  LEONARD  CARLSON. 

Jelly  Roll 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  milk,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  and  one-fourth  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  cup 
of  flour  and  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 

Loaf  Cake 

One  and  one-third  cups  of  flour,  three-fourths  cups  of  sugar,  one  neap- 
ing teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one 
egg,  one-third  cup  of  melted  butter,  vanilla  and  chocolate.  Sift  dry  in- 
ingredients  together,  add  egg  well  beaten,  milk,  butter  and  extract  and  beat 
well.  Take  small  part  of  batter,  add  chocolate  to  it  and  after  putting  white 
part  in  loaf  pan.  Add  chocolate  part  to  it  by  placing  in  the  center  of  it  and 
bake. 

MRS.    BRUCE    HECKMAN. 

Sour  Milk  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs  beaten 
separately  adding  beaten  whites  last;  one-half  cup  of  chocolate  (fill  cup  with 
hot  water  and  let  cool)  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
cups  of  flour  and  spices  if  desired. 

Upside  Down  Cake  with  Pineapple 

Put  three  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar  in  a  medium 
sized  frying  pan.  Let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  sliced  canned 
pineapple  (about  five  slices),  just  to  fit  the  pan.  Over  it  all  pour  a  batter 
made  of  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Put  in  oven 
and  bake  about  fifty  minutes.  Turn  out  on  large  plate.  The  pineapple  will 
be  caramelized  and  served  with  whipped  cream  makes  a  delicious  dessert. 

MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 


CAKES 

(Continued) 


Blitz  Torte 

Cake  Part:  One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  four  egg  yolks 
two  cups  of  flour  one  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  one-half 
cup  of  milk.  Use  coffee  cup  for  measuring.  Put  in  layer  pans  and  spread 
on  the  top,  four  beaten  egg  whites,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vine- 
gar sprinkled  over  with  fifteen  cents  worth  of  walnuts,  chopped  fine.  Fill- 
ing: One  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  egg,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  cornstarch 
and  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  in  double  boiler. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MOORE. 

Lightning  Cake 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  flour,  one  scant  cup  of  sugar,  three  heaping 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt  and  two  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingre- 
dients four  t:mes.  Break  eggs  in  measuring  cup  and  add  five  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter  and  fill  up  cup  with  cold  water.  Pour  this  in  dry  ingredients 
and  beat  thoroughly  for  three  minutes  and  bake  in  two  layers. 

MRS.  BRUCE  HECKMAN. 

White  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  whites 
of  four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  flavoring.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk,  then  flour 
sifted  six  times  with  the  baking  powder  the  last.  Lastly  the  stiffy  beaten 
egg  whites.  Bake  from  fifty  minutes  to  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  O.  W.  LORD. 

White  Loaf  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  ot 
flour,  five  egg  whites,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  three  times 
with  the  flour,  flavoring  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cream,  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly;  add  small  amount  of  milk  and  flour  alternately,  beat  well. 
Lastly  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  one  hour  in  medium 
oven.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 


Brennan  &  Graham 

413  Fifth  St. 

EXCLUSIVE  DRY  GOODS,  LADIES' 
MISSES  AND  CHILDREN'S  WEAR 

The  Store  of  Quality  Service  and  Right  Prices 


CAKES 

(Continued) 


Chocolate  Loaf  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two  scant  cups  of  flour  and  one  and  one-half 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Dissolve  six  tablespoons  of  chocolate  in  a 
half  a  cup  of  warm  water;  let  cool  before  adding  to  the  batter.  Add  a 
half  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  MRS.  A.  I.  DUPREY. 

Anna's  Sponge  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream,  one  teaspoon  of 
lemon  extract,  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of 
flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
and  added  last.  Use  other  egg  white  for  frosting. 

MRS.  DAVID  RAMSEY. 

Quisset  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten  sep- 
ately,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  (large),  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder.  Melt  six  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate  with 
two  tablespoons  of  hot  water ;  cream  half  of  sugar  with  butter,  then  add 
yolks  of  eggs  with  other  half  of  sugar.  Alternately  add  milk  and  flour  then 
chocolate,  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla. 

KATHERINE  CUMMINGS. 

Moca  Cake 

Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  strong  coffee,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Add  the  beaten  whites  last  and  bake  in  layers.  Filling: 
Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  outter,  two  tablespoons  of 
hot  coffee,  then  vanilla.  Frost  cake  and  cover  with  finely  chopped  nuts. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread  to  be  Served  with  Whipped  Cream 
One  egg,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two-thirds  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  one  teaspoon 
of  soda.  Melt  butter  and  add  to  the  molasses,  then  add  water  with  the  dis- 
solved soda.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Top  off  while  slightly  warm  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

MRS.   KEITH   HAMXER. 

Devil  Cake 

First  Part:  One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one- 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  vanilla.  Cook  together  until  like  a  soft  custard. 
Second  Part:  One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  or  more  cups 
of  flour.  Mix  first  part  with  second  and  bake  in  loaf  or  layers.  For  a  layer 
cake,  put  together  with  a  chocolate  filling.  MRS.  J.  E.  HODGSON. 


10 


CAKES 

(Continued) 


Devil's  Food  Cake 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  ot 
chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  four  scant 
cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  thick  sour  milk  and  four  teaspoons  of  vanilla. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  beaten  eggs;  dissolve  chocolate  and  soda 
in  boiling  water  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Then  add  sour  milk,  flour  ana 
vanilla-  mix  to  a  smooth  dough  and  bake  in  layers.  Fill  with  White  Moun- 
tain Frosting.  MASIE  L.  HARPER. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake 

Sift  together  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  flour.  Beat  one  egg,  add  one-half 
cup  of  milk  to  it,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  vanilla  and  mix  the  flour 
mixture  with  it  thoroughly.  Lastly  add  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter. 
Put  in  shallow  pan  and  spread  over  the  top  sugar,  chopped  nuts  and  cinna- 
mon, baking  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  warm  with  coffee. 

MRS.   KEITH   HAMXER. 

Angel  Cake 

Eight  egg  whites,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour  sifted 
five  times,  one  level  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-ha.lf  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  eggs  stiffly.  First  sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and 
cream  of  tartar  five  times.  Beat  a  little  at  a  time  into  beaten  egg  whites  and 
add  vanilla.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  ETHEL  BURRIS. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  cold  water, 
one  and  one-half  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  one  and  one-fourth  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  floui,  whites 
of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  water 
until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  two  minutes. 
Put  cornstarch  in  cup  and  fill  cup  with  flour;  mix  and  sift  cornstarch  and 
flour  and  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add  to  the  first  mixture. 

MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 


Compliments  of 

The  Bank  of  Eureka 

Third  and  E  Streets 


CAKES 

(Continued) 


Chocolate  Loaf  Cake 

Cream  one-half  a  cup  of  butter  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar, 
Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten  to  it,  then  one  and  three-fourths 
cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  scant  one-half  cup  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  three  tablespoons  of 
boiling  water  and  lastly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Bake  about 
fifty  minutes.  MRS.  J.  H.  HINK. 

Blitzen  Cake 

One  generous  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  egg  yolks,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  milk,  two  even  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Beat  egg  whites  stiff  and  add  one  even  cup  of  sugar  ;  beat  like  a 
meringue  and  fold  in  one  cup  of  walnuts  or  almonds.  Put  through  a  grinder 
(measure  before  grinding).  Put  white  mixture  over  raw  batter  and  bake 
about  forty-five  minutes.  MRS.  F.  S.  BRIDGES. 

Dutch  Apple  Pie 

Two  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  egg,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  four 
apples,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Mix  and  sift  the 
dry  ingredients  ;  work  in  shortening,  add  milk  with  the  well  beaten  egg, 
gradually  mixing.  Dough  must  be  soft  enough  to  spread  in  a  shallow  bak- 
ing pan.  Have  ready  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  quarters,  the  apples  and  when 
dough  has  been  spread  in  pan  press  the  apples  in  the  dough  in  parallel  rows. 
Sprinkle  the  apples  with  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  hot  oven  about 
one-half  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  sauce.  EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 

Fudge  Chocolate  Cake 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  of  butter.  Cream  and  add  two 
tablespoons  of  chocolate  melted  with  a  little  hot  water.  Stir  one  beaten 
egg  into  the  mixture  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Dissolve  one  small 
teaspoon  of  soda  in  one  good  half  cup  of  sour  milk.  Add  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  sifted  flour  including  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one-fourth 
cup  of  boiling  water  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  This  makes  two 
large  layers.  MRS.  A.  HEPLEK. 


<r  Economical  Transportation 


ECONOMY STYLE COMFORT 

Rigid  Frame,  Standard  Gear  Shift,  Powerful  Valve-in-Head  Motor;   Neat, 
Good  Looking  Body;  Comfortably  Upholstered. 

ROADSTER,  $650  —  TOURING.  $655  —  COUPE,  $860  —  SEDAN,  $1025 

F.  O.  B.  Eureka 

FRED  H.  LUNDBLADE 

Fourth  and  H  Streets 


12 


CAKES 

(Continued) 


Rhubarb  Shortcake 

Sift  two  cups  of  flour,  four  level  teaspoons  of  baking  bowder,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Work  in  five  tablespoons  of  butter 
until  like  crumbs.  Add  three-fourths  cup  of  milk  and  roll  into  two  layers. 
Butter  one  layer  and  place  on  the  other  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When 
done  separate  and  put  rhubarb  filling  between  and  garnish  on  top  with 
whipped  cream  and  ground  nuts.  Rhubarb  Filling:  Peel,  cut  up  rhubarb, 
add  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  and  cook  in  covered  dish.  When  done  drain 
any  juice  from  it  and  spread  on  the  buttered  layers. 

MRS.   KEITH  HAMMER. 


CAKE  ICING 


Boiled  Icing 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  orange  juice  until  it  threads. 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  boiled  syrup  to  them  slowly. 
Flavor  with  lemon.  MRS.  FREDERICK  JOHNSON. 

Lady  Baltimore  Filling 

Chop  fine,  one-half  a  cup  each  of  rasins  and  nuts.  Cut  three  figs  in  shreds 
and  mix  with  boiled  icing.  ETHEL  BURRIS. 

Chocolate  Filling 

Three  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar, 
six  round  tablespoons  of  grated  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water,  one  half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Marshmellow  Icing 

Three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  of  milk,  one-fourth  pound 
of  marshmellows,  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  vanilla.  Bring  sugar  and 
milk  to  boiling  point  without  stirring.  Boil  for  six  minutes,  add  hot  water 
to  marshmellows  and  cook  until  smooth  and  add  hot  syrup  to  them.  Beat 
until  right  to  spread.  .  ETHEL  BURRIS. 


For  those  who  take  pride  in  their 
NEEDLEWORK 

The  Venitian 


Stamped   Goods  Threads 

Always   the  Latest   Designs 


Log  Cabin  Bakery,  Inc. 

Wholesale  and   Retail 

Office    Phone:   1522 
Store  and  Shipping  Phone  1523 


ART  NEEDLE  SHOP 

ARTHUR   J.    HUNTING 


President  and  Manager 


Free    Instructions    in    Needlework 

621   Fifth   St.  Eureka,  Calif. 

13 


CAKE  ICING 

(Continued) 


Easy-to-Make  Icing 

Put  in  double  boiler  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg  white  and  four  tablespoons 
of  cold  water.  Beat  with  the  egg  beater  while  cooking  until  it  piles  up  like 
whipped  cream.  Add  a  little  vanilla  and  coloring  if  desired.  It  doesn't  hurt 
to  let  the  icing  stand  after  cooked.  Don't  put  it  on  warm  cake.  In  straw- 
berry season,  substitute  one-half  cup  of  crushed  strawberries  instead  of  the 
water.  It  will  never  soak  into  the  cake.  MRS.  KEITH  HAMMER. 

Cake  Filling. 

One  tablespoon  chocolate,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  level  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  large  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  va- 
nilla. Stir  dry  ingredients  together,  set  on  stove  and  pour  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  boiling  water,  stirring  until  thick  and  smooth.  Beat  until  cool  and 
spread  on  cake  with  chopped  nuts.  MRS.  A.  HEPLER. 

Feather  Filling 

Two  tablespoons  of  flour  and  one  cup  of  cold  water.  .'Stir  together  and 
cook  like  paste.  When  cool  add  one-half  cup  of  water,  one  egg  white  and 
one-half  cup  of  sugar  which  has  been  well  creamed.  Beat  all  together. 

MRS.  FREDRICK  JOHNSON. 

Seven  Minute  Icing 

One  unbeaten  egg,  three  tablespoons  of  cold  water  and  seven-eighths  a 
cup  of  sugar.  Place  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler;  beat  seven  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  flavoring  and  spread  on  the  cake. 

MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 


WE  PLACE  SERVICE 
BEFORE  SALES 


...it  pays 


Chas.  Green  Co. 

FINE    MOTOR    CARS 

Eureka  -  -  California 


14 


COOKIES 


Date  Cookies 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one  pound  of  dates,  one  pound  of  walnuts  and  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 
Drop  and  bake. 

Fig  Filling  for  Graham  Crackers 

One  pound  of  white  figs,  one  pound  of  raisins,  (use  cluster  raisins  and 
seed),  juice  of  two  lemons,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Heat  on  stove  to  blend  thor- 
oughly and  put  away  in  jar  to  use  as  filling  for  buttered  Graham  crackers. 
The  figs,  raisins  and  a  few  nuts  if  desired  must  all  be  put  through  a  food 
chopper.  MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Cookies  with  Filling 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Cream  and  add  one  beaten  egg, 
one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar, 
three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  and  add 
to  others.  Roll  thin.  Filling:  One-half  cup  of  chopped  dates,  two-thirds 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  four  teaspoons  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt 
and  a  few  chopped  nuts.  Boil  until  thick.  Spread  filling  on  cookies  and 
place  another  cookie  on  the  top  of  each  one  and  bake. 

MRS.  A.  HEPLER. 
Rolled  Oat  Cookies 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  rolled  oats,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  chopped 
raisins,  three-fourths  cup  of  shortening,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  pinch  of  salt, 
rream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  eggs,  cinnamon,  salt  and  soda  dissolved  in 
iittle  water.  Add  rolled  oats  that  have  been, put  through  a  meat  grinder; 
add  raisins  and  flour  and  roll  and  cut  the  same  as  any  cookie. 

Date  Sticks 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  cup  of  chopped  dates,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  nuts  coarsely  chopped  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  dripping 
pan,  cut  in  strips  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  MRS.  A.  HEPLER. 


Do  Ray  Te 


MEAT      MARKET 

OUT 

QUALITY  DOOR 


CLEANLINESS 
ECONOMY 


Dueber  &  Meister 


ADVERTISING 


Eureka  -        California 

Phone  448  Eureka,  Cal. 


COOKIES 

(Continued) 


Chocolate  Cookies 

Three  eggs,  separately  and  then  together,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  one  and  one-half  cups  01 
flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  chocolate,  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  one  cup  walnuts  cut  coarsely.  -Drop  on  pan  by  teaspoonsfm 
and  bake  in  a  medium  oven.  Remove  from  oven  when  still  rather  soft. 

-MRS.  CHARLES  L.  EAST. 

Gingersnaps  That  Snap 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses  (New  Orleans  preferred), 
one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one  tablespoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  two  teaspoons  of  ginger,  one  egg  and 
flour  to  roll  out  (about  five  cups  of  flour).  Roll  thin.  EDNA  IRONS. 

Cocoanut  Drop  Cookies 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  or  substitute,  one  beaten 
egg,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  teaspoon  of  lem- 
on extract,  two  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  two  cups  of 
flour  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  in  order  named  and  drop  from 
teaspoon  on  greased  pans;  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  E.  A.  MELANSON. 

White   Cookies 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  va- 
nilla, a  pinch  of  salt,  one  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  flour  enough 
to  roll  out  smooth.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs,  vanilla, 
baking  powder  and  flour.  Roll  very  thin.  MRS.  A.  I.  DUPREY. 

Cocoanut  Cookies 

Two  cups  of  melted  butter,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  unbeaten  eggs, 
one  cup  of  cocoanut,  four  cups  of  rolled  oats,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder,  salt  and  vanilla.  Dissolve 
soda  in  little  hot  water  and  mix  in  order  given. 

MRS  IRWIN  QUINN. 

Rocks 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  one  cup  butter;  three  cups  flour;  three 
'eggs;  one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  warm  water;  three-fourths  pounds  dates; 
two  pounds  walnuts  chopped,  not  too  fine;  one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Drop  with  a  spoon  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven.  MRS.  HUTCHINS 

Egg  Rings— Xmas  Cookies 

Two  cups  flour;  one-half  cup  butter;  one-fourth  cup  sugar;  yolks  of  three 
hard  cooked  eggs  and  one-fourth  a  tumbler  of  brandy.  Rub  all  together  and 
roll  out  and  cut  into  rings.  Moisten  the  top  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  quickly.  MRS.  J.  F.  COONAN. 


16 


COOKIES 

(Continued) 


Carmel  Cookies 

Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  shortening,  four  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda, 
seven  cups  of  flour.  Mix  and  roll  into  loaves,  let  stand  over  night;  cut  thin 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Butter  Scotch  Cookies 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  scant  cup  of  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts, 
one-half  cup  of  sour  milk.  You  may  bake  immediately  in  drops  or  else  let 
stand  over  night  and  slice  and  bake  in  the  morning. 

MRS.   A.   HEPLER. 

Grandmother's  Cookies 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  level  teaspoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  of  hot  milk,  flavoring,  one  level  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar,  four  cups  of  flour  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Use 
more  flour  if  necessary  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  quite  thin.  Very  nice 
if  sprinkled  with  sugar,  and  cinnamon  before  baking. 

MRS.  E.  A.  MELANSON. 


We  Sell  and  Service 

CHANDLER  CLEVELAND 
DURANTFOUR 


WE  SOLICIT  YOUR   BUSINESS 


.A.  E.  Hermanson 


Cor.  4th  and  I  Sts.      EUREKA,  CAL.  Phone  31 


17 


COOKIES 

(Continued) 


Cookies 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  add 
one  cup  of  shortening  and  mix  with  the  hands,  then  add  one  cup  of  sour 
milk  and  flavor  to  taste.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Nut  Wafers 

T\vo  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  table- 
spoons of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  f'nely  chopped  nuts,  salt  and  vanilla.  Drop  in  pan  one  inch  apart  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. 

Danish  Cookies 

Take  two  and  one-half  inches  of  butter  off  the  roll  (about  one  and  one- 
half  cups),  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  four  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoon 
of  vanilla.  Press  mixture  through  a  machine  especially  made  for  the  same 
(can  be  bought  at  any  hardware  store)  and  drop  in  long  strips  on  a  floured 
board.  Cut  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Stars  and  different  shapes 
come  with  the  machine  so  make  your  cookies  attractive  by  changing  parts 
now  and  then.  MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Graham  Wafers 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  level  teaspoon  of 
soda,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  about  three  cups  of  Graham  flour.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  the  egg,  then  the  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon 
of  hot  water.  Work  in  the  flour  until  a  stiff  dough  is  made.  Knead  until 
mixture  holds  together.  Cut  in  wafers  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

EVELYN    C.   VANCE. 

Chocolate  Drop  Cookies 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  shortening,  three  tablespoons  choco- 
ate,  one-half  cup  nuts,  vanilla,  salt,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  cocoanut  (or  raisins) ; 
bake  in  a  slow  oven.  MRS.  ROBT.  BOHMANSSON. 


When  Better  Automobiles 
Are  Built, 

Buick  Will  Build  Them 


AIRTH    AUTOMOBILE   CO. 

526-528    Fifth    St.  Eureka 


Teresa's  Fruit  Co. 

Wholesale  and  Retail 

Dealers   in 

Fresh    Fruits,    Vegetables 
and  Groceries 


Phone  1 


423   4th   St. 


18 


COOKIES 

(Continued) 


Nut  Cookies 

Cream  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Add  one 
well  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  one  cup  of  flour  and  lastly  add  one 
cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  flavoring.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  well  buttered 
pans  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  vanilla,  five 
cups  of  flour,  four  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Dissolve  the  cup  of  sugar  in  milk;  add  the  well  beaten  eggs 
and  vanilla.  To  this  mixture  add  the  dry  ingredients  and  fry. 

Clifford  Tea  Cakes 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  shortening,  three  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour  and  one-half  cup  of  walnuts.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs, 
flour,  salt,  soda  and  lastly  chopped  nuts.  Put  in  bread  pan  and  allow  to 
stand  over  night.  Turn  out  next  morning,  slice  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Flour 
bread  pan  before  putting  in  batter  to  set  MRS.  JAMES  W.  HAMNER. 

Cookies 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  shortening,  one-fourth  cup  hot  water  with 
one  teaspoon  soda,  3  and  one-half  cups  flour,  flavoring,  one  cup  chopped 
nuts,  one  cup  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  add  one  at  a  time;  beat  well.  Mold 
into  two  equal  parts  place  on  platter  over  night  in  cool  place;  next  morning 
cut  off  with  knife ;  pat  them  down  slightly  with  fingers  into  small  cookies 
and  bake.  MRS.  ROBT.  BOHMANSSON. 

Cocoanut  Macaroons 

To  two  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  one  cup  of  cocoanut  and  two  cups  of  cornflakes.  Drop  on  oiled 
paper  from,  teaspoon  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.   JAMES   W.   HAMNER. 


HUMBOLDT'S 


RELIABLE 


Photographer 


Welclo 

JUST  A  GOOD  TOOTH  PASTE 
35C 

Red  Cross  Pharmacy 


19 


COOKIES 

(Continued) 


Sugar  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  flour,  vanilla,  one  cup 
sugar,  two  eggs.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  gradually  beating,  then  add 
two  egg  yolks  and  one  white  beaten  until  light;  then  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder  pinch  of  salt;  add  vanilla.  Let  stand  to  chill;  then  toss 
on  a  floured  board  and  roll  one-eighth  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  doughnut 
cutter,  brush  over  with  the  unbeaten  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon.  Place  on  a  greased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  ten  minutes.  MRS.  ROBT.  BOHMANSSON. 

Brownies 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  unbeaten  eggs,  two 
large  tablespoons  chocolate  melted  in  a  little  hot  water,  three-fourths  a  cup 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  two  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. 

Rocks 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  three  eggs,  one-half 
a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  level  teaspoon  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg;  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  teaspoon  of  hot 
water,  one  cup  of  raisins  and  dates  cut  in  strips,  one  pint  of  broken  walnut 
meats,  four  rounding  cups  of  flour  measured  after  sifting;  five  teaspoons  of 
water.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  greased  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 

MRS.  THOM1AS  W. 


Brown  Pepper  Nuts  —  X-mas  Cookies 

Two  and  one-half  quarts  of  flour,  one  and  one-fourth  pints  of  syrup,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  lard,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves  and  soda,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon.  Boil  syrup  and 
skim  well  when  cold;  add  the  other  ingredients.  Let  stand  for  a  few  days. 
Cut  as  for  regular  cookies.  Bake  slowly.  MRS.  J.  F.  COONAN. 

Rocks  or  Drop  Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  meat-fat  or  butter  (cream 
together  well),  three  tablespoons  of  molasses,  four  tablespoons  of  butter- 
milk, three  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  little  water,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  half  teaspoon  of  any  kind  of  spices,  one 
cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  walnuts  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Drop  in  pan  with  teaspoon.  This  makes  seventy-five  cookies. 

MRS.  J.  L.  MARSH. 

Cookies 

Cream  two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter  together.  Add  two 
well-beaten  eggs.  Sift  three  times,  three  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  with  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt;  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
and  one-half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg.  Use  lemon  flavoring  and  add  one  cup  of 
chopped  walnuts.  Pack  in  loaf  bread  pan  and  let  stand  over  night.  Slice  thin 
and  bake  in  the  morning.  MRS.  F.  S.  BRIDGES. 


20 


COOKIES 

(Continued) 


Never  Failing  Ginger  Snaps 

One  cup  each  of  sugar,  molasses  and  shortening;  one  egg;  one  tablespoon 
each  of  ginger  and  vinegar,  dissolving  in  the  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 
Use  no  milk  or  water.  Mix  in  six  or  seven  cups  of  flour  and  knead,  roll  and 
cut,  after  standing  over  night.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.  JENNIE  CARR. 

Butter  Scotch  Cookies 

One  cup  Crisco  •  four  cups  brown  sugar;  four  eggs;  one  level  teaspoon  each 
of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar;  three  teaspoons  vanilla  and  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  of  lemon  juice.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead 
and  roll  into  a  loaf  and  let  rise  all  night.  "  In  the  morning  slice  and  bake  in 
the  oven.  MRS.  BESSIE  TAYLOR. 


Eureka's  and  Northern  California's  Largest,  Finest, 
Fastest  Growing  and  Friendliest  Department  Store 

Wishes  You — 

GOOD  LUCK 

AND 

A  HEARTY  APPETITE 


21 


PUDDING 


St.  James  Pudding 

Three  tablespoons  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one  and  seven-eighths  cups  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg  and  one-half  pound 
of  dates  cut  in  pieces.  Steam  two  and  one-half  hours. 

MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN. 

Ginger  Pudding 

One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  molass'es,  one-half  cup  hot  water;  Pour 
hot  water  over  butter  and  molasses  and  mix;  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda  and  ginger  to  taste.  (Add  a  Ijttle  bak- 
ing powder  also.)  Sauce:  One-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
creamed  together;  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Cook  in  dish  set  in  cold  water 
first,  then  heat  well.  MRS.  JENNIE  CARR. 

Steamed  Pudding 

One  half  cup  of  butter,  creamed,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
two  and  one-fourth  cups  of  flour,  three  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  and  whites  of  four  eggs.  Sauce:  One  egg  white  and  yolk  beaten 
separately  then  added  together  slowly,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  and  three- 
fourths  cup  of  cream,  whipped.  Flavor  to  suit. 

MRS.   B.  M.  ADAMS. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Pudding 

One  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one-half  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoons 
of  cornstarch.  Put  milk  on  to  scald,  then  add  sugar,  salt  and  egg  yolks  well 
beaten.  Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  water  and  add  to  the  above.  When 
cooked  to  the  right  consistency,  add  the  whites  well  beaten,  also  the  flavor- 
ing. Serve  in  tall  glasses  with  whipped  cream.  Sprinkle  with  cocoanut 
and  nuts.  A  bit  of  strawberry  jam  can  be  added  to  the  top. 

MAE  CAMPION  FALK. 


Let  Your  Next  Pair  Be 


SCOTT'S 

Walk-Over  Boot  Shop 

318  F  St.  Eureka,  Cal. 


R.  H.  Bohmansson    H.  S.  Cameron 

BoHmansson 
Drug'  Co. 


Third  and  F  Sts. 


Eureka,  CaL 


22 


PUDDING 

(Continued) 


French  Pudding 

One  cup  of  chopped  suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  and  one-fourth  cup  chopped  raisins, 
three-fourths  cup  of  currants  and  two  and  three-fourths  cups  of  flour.  Steam 
four  hours.  MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN. 

Suet  Pudding 

One  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk, 
one  cup  of  raisins,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam 
three  hours.  MRS.  O.  W.  LORD. 

Date  Pudding  (Steamed  Two  Hours) 

One  cup  of  dates,  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  one  scant  cup  of  sugar, 
four  tablespoons  of  cracker  crumbs,  three  eggs  beaten  together,  one  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

Pineapple  Pudding 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  and  three-fourths  cups  of  boiling  water,  one-fourth 
cup  of  cold  water,  one-third  cup  of  cornstarch,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-half  can  of  grated  pineapple  and  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  and  added 
when  removed  from  the  stove. 

MRS.  JOHN  N  CHAIN. 


Compliments  of 

The  Standard  Oil 

Eureka,  Ceil. 

PUDDING 

(Continued) 


Huckleberry  Pudding 

One  cup  of  sour  cream,  or  milk  will  do.  Drop  in  one  unbeaten  egg,  one- 
half  cup  of  syrup,  four  tablespoons  of  butter  and  flour  to  make  it  thick 
enough  ;  then  add  one  cup  of  berries  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Steam  three  ho.urs  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

MRS.  B.  M.  ADAMS. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding 

Two  cups  of  ground  suet,  two  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  seeded 
raisins,  two  cups  of  currants,  one  cup  of  finely  cut  citron,  one  cup  of  finely 
cut  figs,  one  tablespoon  of  finely  cut  orange  peel,  one  tablespoon  of  finely 
cut  lemon  peel,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
ginger,  one-fourth  leaspoonful  of  cloves,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  ground  mace,  one  tablespoontul  of 
salt,  one  cup  of  water  and  one  cup  of  g^ape  or  other  fruit  juice.  Mix  thor- 
oughly all  dry  ingredients  and  add  fruit;  stir  in  water  and  fruit  juice  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Add  more  water  if  necessary  to  make  stiff  dough.  Fill 
greased  molds  two-thirds  full  and  steam  five  or  six  hours.  This  pudding 
should  be  prepared  and  cooked  a  week  or  more  before  serving.  Before 
serving,  steam  one  hour  and  serve  with  hard,  lemon  or  foamy  sauce. 

MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 

Raisins  Puffs 

Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  m:lk,  one  cup  of  raisins 
chopped  fine.  Steam  one-half  hour  in  small  cups  and  serve  with  cream. 

DOROTHY  JACOBSOX. 

Pineapple  Sponge 

One-half  box  gelatine,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  lemon  juice,  two 
cups  of  pineapple  and  two  cups  of  cold  water.  Soak  gelatine  in  water  until 
very  soft;  dissolve  sugar  in  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  to  gelatine,  strain 
gelatine  into  pineapple  and  add  lemon  juice.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  molds. 

KATHERINE  GUMMING. 


w 

.X  * 

c^S  .<> 


v 


The  Home  Of 

ijart  § 


Good   Clothes 


24 


PUDDING 

(Continued) 


Ginger  Pudding 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter  (scant),  one  cup 
cut  raisins,  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger  and  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda.  Stir  stiff  with  flour  and  steam  one  hour.  Sauce:  One  egg, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour  and  one 
tablespoon  of  lemon  extract.  Pour  on  boiling  water  and  make  like  thin 
starch.  MRS.  M.  A.  BRANDT. 

Date  Walnut  Pudding 

Two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one 
cup  of  chopped  walnuts,  one  cup  of  chopped  dates  and  three-fourths  cup 
of  sugar.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  then  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add 
the  walnuts  and  dates.  Sprinkle  all  wjth  cinnamon  and  bake  in  greased 
pan.  Try  with  a  straw  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  in  individual  glasses. 

MAE  CAMPTON  FALK. 

Pineapple  Cream 

Two  tablespoons  of  granulated  gelatine,  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water,  one- 
half  cup  of  boiling  water,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one  pint  can  of  grated 
pineapple,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  one  pint  of  heavy  ciream.  Soak 
gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water  and  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Cool,  add  lemon  juice  and  pineapple.  Set  aside  and  when  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  cream.  Place  in  mold  which  has  been 
dipped  in  cold  water.  Let  stand  several  hours  to  harden  and  chill. 

MRS.  A.  OHMAN. 

Caramel  Cream  Pudding 

One-half  cup  of  sugar.  Put  it  in  an  iron  frying  pan  and  brown  it  (car- 
amelize). When  dissolved,  put  in  one  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Set  on  back 
of  stove  and  stir  occasionally  until  milk  and  sugar  are  dissolved.  Add  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  wa- 
ter and  add  last.  Fold  in  one-half  cup  of  pecan  nuts.  Serve  warm  with 
cream.  This  is  a  very  dainty  and  delicious  dessert. 

MAE  CAMPTON  FALK. 


The  EUREKA  INN 


EUREKA,  Liidlrtfflit  REDWOOD 

CAL.  ,1  HIGHWAY 


Management  LEO  LEBENBAUM 
EMILE  IVERSEN,  Resident  Manager 


» 

25 


PUDDING 

(Continued) 


Carrot  Pudding 

One  cup  of  carrots  and  one  cup  of  potatoes  (grind  fine  in  the  meat  chop- 
per), one  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  raisins,  two-thirds  cup  of  suet  chopped 
fine,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-fourth  cup  of  citron  chopped 
fine,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  (add  to  potatoes).  Different  spices  may  be 
added.  Stir  ingredients  together  and  steam  three  hours. 

Orange  M'archmellow  Pudding 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  beaten  egg,  two-thirds  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Squeeze  juice  of  one-half  orange 
into  the  egg  and  sugar.  Stir  into  the  soaked  bread  and  milk  and  bake  slow- 
ly one-half  hour.  Just  before  serving,  cover  with  marshmellows  and  return 
to  oven  until  marshmellows  are  brown.  MRS.  E.  P.  THURSTON, 

Ukiah  Auxiliary. 

Stirling  Sauce  for  Steam  Pudding 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
white  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  two  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine  and 
four  tablespoons  of  cream.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  cream 
and  flavoring  drop  by  drop  to  prevent  separating. 

MRS.  JOHN  N  CHAIN. 


PIES 


Apricot  Pie 

Line  pan  with  pie  crust;  drain  juice  from  a  can  of  apricots,  then  put  a 
layer  in  pan  and  pour  over  them  a  custard  made  of  one  pint  of  milk,  three 
eggs,  well  beaten,  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar,  flavoring,  little  salt,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  custard  is  set. 

Banana  Pie 

Bake  a  rich  pie  crust  shell.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  fill  with  sliced 
raw  bananas  covered  with  the  following  custard:  Blend  two  tablespoons 
butter,  melted,  with  one  tablespoon  flour ;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  extract,  three-fourths  cup  sugar  and  one  cup 
boiling  water  added  gradually.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constant- 
ly. When  cooked  pour  over  the  sliced  bananas.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  beat  until  quite  stiff. 
cover  the  filling  with  it  and  place  in  the  oven  till  it  becomes  a  delicate 
brown.  Serve  cold.  MRS.  LEONARD  CARLSON. 

Mince  Meat 

Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  boiled  and  chopped  with  one  pound  of  suet,  five 
pounds  of  juicy  apples  (one  good  sized  Bellflower  equals  one-half  pound 
chopped),  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two  pounds  of  Sultana  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  citron,  three  tablespoons 
each  of  cinnamon,  mace,  allspice  and  salt,  one  grated  nutmeg,  three  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  three  lemons  (grate  rinds  and  add  the  juice)  and  one-half 
gallon  of  sweet  cider.  Cook  all  together  and  seal  while  hot. 

MRS.  W.  F.  CLYBORNE. 

-~- - 

26 


PIES 

(Continued) 


Pumpkin  Pie 

One  pint  of  boiled  dry  pumpkin,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  molasses,  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  of 
ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pint  of  milk. 

MRS.  A.  I.  DUPREY. 
Pumpkin  or  Squash  Pie 

For  two  pies:  Three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  of  pumpkin  or  squash 
well  stewed,  two  cups  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  gin- 
ger, one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  allspice  and  cloves,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  molasses  and  a  little  salt.  MRS.  W.  F.  CLYBORNE. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Take  one-third  a  can  of  pumpkin,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  spices  (nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  ginger),  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk  and 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  milk  on  stove  to  heat  and  when  heated,  turn 
on  and  stir.  MAY  CAMPTON  FALK. 

Cheese  Straws 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths  pound  of  eastern  cheese,  three- 
fourths  pound  of  flour.  Cut  butter  into  flouir  with  knife,  moisten  with  cold 
water.  Roll  from  you  into  a  sheet,  cover  half  with  grated  cheese  and  fold 
over  toward  you.  Cut  in  small  strips  and  bake.  MRS.  SCHWAB. 


The  Rig'ht  Goods 
At  the  Rig'ht  Time 
At  the  Rig'ht  Price 

— Constantly  being  on  the  alert  to  offer  you  the  right  goods,  at  the 
right  time,  at  the  right  prices  has  made  the  steady  growth  of  this 
business  possible.  And  this  will  always  be  the  aim  in  this  estab- 
lishment, as  long  as  the  name  of  Daly  remains  over  the  doors  of 
the  store. 

— TJwenty-eiffht  years  under  the  same  management 


27 


PIES 

(Continued) 


Butter  Scotch  Pie 

One  pint  milk,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  yolk  of 
three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Cook  together  in  a 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Put  in  a  crust  that  has  already  been  baked.  Cover 
with  meringue  and  set  in  oven  until  top  has  browned. 

MRS.  BESSIE  TAYLOR. 

Green  Tomato  Pie 

Peel  and  slice  sufficient  green  tomatoes  for  a  pie.  To  four  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  three  an  one-half  tablespoons  of  sugar 
and  nutmeg  to  flavor;  pour  over  tomatoes.  Bake  slowly  in  two  crusts. 

MRS.  CARL  CARLSON. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Peel  and  wash  pumpkin  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  a  tight  lid  and  cook 
for  several  hours  over  a  slow  fire  without  any  water.  Filling  for  one  pie: 
One  cup  of  pumpkin,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one 
eighth  teaspoon  of  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg.  MRS.  F.  J.  MOORE. 

Lemon  Pie 

Two  eggs  yolks,  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar,  three  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour,   one   pinch  of  salt,   one  scant   tablespoon   butter,   two    scant  cups  of 
water,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  rind.     Meringue:     Whites  of  two  eggs,  one 
tablespoon  of  water,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one-half  a  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar.     Beat  well  and  brown  in  slow  oven. 
____^^______  MRS-  M-  A-  BRANDT. 

Good  Pie  Crust 

For  one  pie  with  two  crusts  use  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  one-half 
cup  of  shortening,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  three  tablespoons  of  ice 
cold  water.  Into  the  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  salt  add  the  lard 
and  mix  thoroughly  with  a  knife;  then  add  the  water  and  handle  as  little 
as  possible  and  roll  on  floured  board.  Everything  should  be  kept  as  cold 
as  possible  and  handle  lightly,  not  kneaded.  MRS.  BERT  WAITE. 

Arcata,  Cal. 
Mince  Meat 

Forty  cents  worth  of  meat  (off  neck),  five  cents  worth  of  suet,  twenty 
apples,  one  package  of  currants,  one  package  of  seedless  raisins,  ten  cents 
worth  of  citron,  ten  cents  worth  of  lemon  peel,  ten  cents  worth  of  orange 
peel,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice,  mace,  cloves 
and  salt.  Put  all  through  the  meat  grinder  and  cook. 

Mince  Meat 

Two  bowls  of  chopped  meat  (four  pounds),  one  bowl  of  suet,  four  bowls 
of  chopped  apples,  four  bowls  of  brown  sugar,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  three  lemons,  one  quart  of 
cider,  one  pound  of  chopped  citron,  two  tablespoons  each  of  all  kinds  of 
spices.  Moisten  with  the  meat  juice.  MRS.  B.  M.  ADAMS. 


PIES 

(Continued) 


Pineapple  Pie 

One  small  can  of  grated  pineapple,  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons 
of  flour,  yolk  of  two  eggs,  one  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  juice  and  rind  of 
one  lemon.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  add  the  pineapple  juice  to  which 
enough  water  has  been  added  to  make  a  cup.  When  thick,  add  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  then  pineapple  and  lemon  ju:ce.  Either  a  meringue  or  whipped 
cream  may  be  used  for  this  pie.  MRS.  DAYTON  MURRAY. 

Sour  Cream  Pie 

One  cup  of  sour  cream,  three-fourths  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  seeded 
raisins,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  little  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves.  Bake  in  one 
crust  in  the  same  way  as  a  custard  pie,  then  cover  with  a  meringue  made 
of  the  two  egg  whites,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  of  water. 

MRS.  JAMES  W.  HAMNER. 


The  Mens'  Home 

-of— 

Quality,  Quantity,  Service 


ARMY  "-STORE 


A  Complete  Line  of 

Men's  Furnishings  Men's  Shoes 

Men  and  Boy's  Clothing  Women's  Shoes 

Camping  Supplies  Children's  Shoes 

Open  Saturday  Evenings  until  9  P.  M. 


29 


Compliments  of. 


Hammond 

Lumber 

Company 


Eure&a,  Cal. 


SOUPS 


Mock  Turtle  Soup 

Boil  a  calf's  liver  and  heairt  and  knuckle  of  veal  for  three  hours,  skimming 
well.  Then  strain,  chop  the  meat  fine  and  add  to  it  a  chopped  onion;  salt 
and  pepper  and  ground  cloves  to  taste.  Thicken  if  necessary  with  a  little 
brown  flour.  Cut  up  four  or  five  hard  boiled  eggs  and  add,  also  a  slice  of 
lemon. 

Vegetable  Soup 

Boil  a  soup  bone  slowly  in  three  quarts  of  water  for  four  hours.  Strain 
and  cool  so  as  to  .take  off  the  grease;  chop  finely  a  teacup  of  carrots,  cab- 
bage and  potatoes  each  and  a  half  cup  of  turnips  and  canned  corn.  Add 
the  stock  and  cook  one  hour. 

Clam  Chowder 

One  large  potato  diced  and  also  two  large  onions  diced.  Cover  with  wa- 
ter and  simmer  until  tender  then  pour  in  the  juice  of  one  can  of  Dodge 
clams  and  one-half  can  of  Carnation  milk  diluted  with  water,  then  thicken 
with  flour  to  suit  and  water,  lastly  add  bacon  cubes  fried  crisp  and  drippings 
with  salt  to  taste;  also  a  large  cube  of  butter,  then  finely  chopped  clams. 
Simmer  for  half  an  hour  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Before  serving,  break 
some  crisp  crackers  into  the  chowder.  MAE  CAMPTON  FALK-. 

Mutton  Broth 

Three  pounds  of  bone  and  meat.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  add  one-half 
cup  of  rice  and  salt.  Let  simmer  all  day  on  the  back  of  the  range,  then  re- 
move meat,  strain  and  let  stand  all  night.  Remove  the  grease  in  the  morn- 
ing and  the  broth  is  ready. 

Cream  Celery  Soup 

Slice  a  large  head  of  celery  and  a  small  onion;  cook  until  tender.  Press 
through  a  coarse  sieve  and  add  a  pint  of  milk;  work  together  a  tablespoon 
each  of  butter  and  flour  and  stir  into  boiling  soup.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  strain.  When  ready  to  serve  add  a  pint  of  thin  cream. 

Celery  Soup 

Make  a  good  broth  from  a  soup  bone,  skim  off  the  fat,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  mixed  with  water.  Cut  into  small  pieces  a  large  head  of  celery 
and  cook  in  broth  until  tender;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Split  Pea  Soup 

A  fifty  or  sixty  cent  ham  shank  well  covered  with  water.  Boil  until  ten- 
der. Remove  meat,  and  in  ham  water,  boil  cabbage,  carrots,  parsnips  and 
potatoes  as  for  a  boiled  dinner.  When  cooked  remove  vegetables,  strain 
liquid  and  set  away  to  cool  and  skim.  Next  morning  add  a  good  sized  on- 
ion, two  cupfuls  of  split  peas  and  a  quarter  cup  of  pearl  tapioca,  previously 
soaked.  Cook  slowly  a  long  time  and  when  well-cooked,  strain  and  mash 
through  a  fine  seive.  Pepper  to  taste. 

MRS.  M.  A.  BRANDT. 

31 


SOUPS 

(Continued) 


Rice  Tomato  Soup 

Cook  soup  bone  slowly;  skim  off  grease.  Three-fourths  of  an  hour  before 
serving;  add  one-half  a  can  of  tomatoes,  one  chopped  turnip,  two  carrots, 
one  small  parsnip  and  one  small  onion.  In  another  kettle  cook  one-half  a 
cup  of  rice  until  tender;  add  to  soup  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 

I 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

One  pint  of  strained  tomatoes,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup  of 
boiling  water,  one  pint  of  mjilk,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  three  table- 
spoons of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Heat  tomatoes  in 
a  sauce  pan  until  near  boiling  point,  then  add  soda.  Thicken  milk  and  wa- 
ter with  flour  and  gradually  pour  tomatoes  into  milk,  stirring  constantly. 
If  milk  is  plentiful,  use  all  milk. 


WHEN  CONSULTING  THE  PAGES  OF  THIS 
VALUABLE  BOOK,  DON'T  OVERLOOK 
STIRRING  UP  A  DEPOSIT  FOR  US 

The  First  National  Bank 

and 

Home  Savings  Bank 

Established  in  1895 

Eureka,  California 


Combined  Resources  over  $6,750,000.00 


32 


MEATS 


All  stews  are  started  with  hot  water  and  cooked  slowly. 

Soups  are  started  in  cold  water  so  as  to  extract  all  the  juices. 

Salt  meats  are  cooked  by  (starting  with  cold  water. 

The  flavor  of  lean  meat  is  improved  by  larding. 

Salt  should  be  rubbed  into  the  surface  of  roasts  before  cooking  to  retain 
the  juice. 

To  overcome  the  strong  flavor  mutton,  remove  the  red  membrane  and 
cut  aw&y  superfluous  fats. 

Cut  shallow  slits  in  leg  of  lamb  or  mutton  and  rub  in  salt  and  pepper  to 
improve  the  flavor. 

Brown  sugar  will  sometimes  neutralize  too  much  salt  in  meat. 

In  roasting  or  boiling  meat,  turn  over  with  a  spoon  as  a  fork  allows  the 
juices  to  escape. 

Nutmeg  added  to  veal  stew  gives  a  decidedly  chicken  flavor. 


Virginia  Spiced  Ham 

Mix  one  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  together  and 
rub  into  a  slice  of  ham  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  in  baking  pan. 
Pour  one-half  a  cup  of  water  and  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  around  it.  Cov- 
er and  bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  L.  C.  A. 

Friccadilos 

Two  pounds  of  ground  veal,  three  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  a  little  water ; 
add  to  the  meat,  also  salt,  pepper  and  one  and  one-halt  teaspoons  of  ginger. 
Roll  in  balls  and  fry  brown.  Sauce:  Fry  two  medium  onions  in  butter-fat; 
add  three  cans  of  tomato  sauce  and  put  meat  and  sauce  in  a  pan,  add  enough 
water  and  bake  one  hour  slowly.  MRS.  N.  LAWRENCE. 

.  „   -.wr  lie  }£  \*\l 

Meat  Loaf 

About  two  pounds  of  hamburger  steak  and  one-half  pound  of  sausage 
mixed  together.  Two  small  onions  chopped  fine,  one  egg  and  a  cup  of  rolled 
cracker  crumbs.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  good  spoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  some  tomato  sauce  to  moisten.  Work  well  into 
a  loaf  and  bake  about  forty  minutes  in  tomato  sauce  and  a  little  water. 
Baste  well.  MRS.  JENNIE  CARR. 


The  White  House 

Now  in  its  New  and  Beautiful 

HOME 
CORNER  5th  and  F 

SPECIALISTS 

in 

READY-TO-WEAR 

Garments  for  Misses  and  Women 


Gross 
Bldg. 


Office  Phone  128 
Res.  "  1095-W 


Dr,  Elmo  L  Walsh 

DENTAL  SURGEON 


Eureka, 


Calif. 


33 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


Beef  Loaf 

Two  pounds  of  round  steak  ground,  one-fourth  pound  of  fresh  pork,  one 
and  one-half  cupfuls  of  oatmeal  put  through  the  grinder,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoon of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper,  two  teaspoons  of  poultry  seas- 
oning, two  teaspoons  tomato  catsup,  two  teaspoons  melted  butter,  about 
one-half  cup  of  cold  water  and  a  dash  of  curry  powder.  Mix  together,  ad- 
ding water  to  make  it  stick  together.  Brown  meat  loaf  in  drippings,  then 
pour  over  a  little  hot  water  and  bake,  basting  frequently. 

MRS.  F.  S.  BRIDGES. 

Left-Over  Veal  Creamed 

One  cup  of  veal  chopped;  one-half  cup  of  white  sauce  and  three  slices  of 
toast.  Mix  the  veal  and  sauce.  H'eat  and  serve  hot  on  rounds  of  toast. 

Chop  Suey 

One  and  one-half  pounds  or  two  of  lean  pork  shoulder  and  cut  into  pieces 
two  large  onions,  two  cups  of  mushrooms  and  one  stalk  of  celery.  Two 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch;  four  teaspoons  of  sugar;  one  quarter  cup  of  olive 
oil;  three  slices  of  bacon,  cut  fine  and  fried;  one  tablespoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce;  one  cup  of  warm  water.  Cut  meat,  mushrooms,  celery  and 
onions  in  small  pieces.  Chop  onions  if  preferred;  blend  cornstarch  and 
sugar  in  warm  water;  saute  meat  in  olive  oil  and  bacon  fat  until  well  browned 
then  add  vegetables.  Lastly  add  the  water  and  cook  one-half  hour,  stirring 
briskly.  Then  add  the  Worcestershire  sauce  and  serve  with  steamed  rice. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CARBRAY 
Chicken  Croquettes 

One  cup  of  chopped  chicken,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  sifted,  one-half  cup 
of  stock  or  gravy,  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  all  together  and  stir  in  one  beaten 
egg.  When  cold  form  into  croquettes  and  roll  in  crumbs,  then  egg,  then 
crumbs  again  and  fry.  KATHERINE  CUMMINGS. 

Potroast  of  Venison 

Cut  into  pieces  as  for  stew.  Dredge  well  with  flour.  Turn  into  kettle 
with  two  tablespoons  of  boiling  hot  grease.  Brown  carefully.  Add  one 
onion  finely  chopped  and  a  little  parsley.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  in  its  own 
steam  two  and  one-half  hours.  Add  salt  and  pepper  one-half  hour  before 
finished.  MASIE  L.  HARPKK. 


Axel  Sundquist 

SHOE  STORE 

The  Packard   Shoe  for  Men 

Men's  and   Boys's   Shoes  of   Qual- 
ity— First    Class    Shoe    Repairing. 

Telephone  938-J         523  Fifth  St. 
Eureka,    Cal. 


Yours  for   Individuality  and   Style 

Marion  A.  Worcester 

LADIES'   FASHION   SHOP 

First  National  Bank  Building 
Phone  609      Eureka      5th  and  F  St 


34 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


Pigs  in  Blankets 

Cut  round  steak  into  four  or  five  inch  squares  and  pound  well.  Dredge 
with  flour  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  thinly 
sliced  onion  and  lay  on  it  a  strip  of  bacon.  Roll  and  fasten  with  a  tooth- 
pick. Roll  each  blanket  in  flour,  put  in  baking  dish  with  a  little  hot  water, 
cover  closely  and  cook  in  a  medium  oven  for  one  and  one-half  hours  or 
until  tender.  The  steak  should  be  at  least  a  half  inch  thick. 

MRS.  E.  J.   REED. 

Swiss  Steak. 

Take  round  steak  at  least  one  and  one-half  inches  thick;  pound  flour  into 
it  until  fiber  is  broken,  then  salt  and  pepper;  brown  quickly  in  hot  fat  and 
cover  with  water.  Cover  tightly  and  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for 
about  two  hours  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  the  gravy.  Tomato 
Sauce:  One  cup  of  tomato  puree,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  small 
onion  sliced  thin.  Mix  together  and  boil  slowly  until  it  thickens. 

MRS.  E.  J.  REED. 
Casserole  Beefsteak 

One  pound  of  roundsteak,  two  carrots  cut  in  cubes,  two  turnips  cut  in 
cubes,  one-half  dozen  tiny  onions,  one  bay  leaf,  one-half  tablespoon  of 
Kitchen  Bouquet,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiling  water,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Brown  steak  in  frying  pan  either  in  whole  piece  or  cut  strips. 
Put  in  casserole  with  other  ingredients  and  cook  one  and  one-half  hours 
Brisket  or  shin  bone  makes  a  fine  dish  but  requires  longer  cooking. 

MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Tamale  Loaf 

One  onion,  fifty  cents  worth  of  meat,  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  can  of 
corn,  one  pint  of  'ripe  olives,  one  cup  of  olive  oil,  three  teaspoons  of  Eagle 
pepper;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  cups  of  cornmeal,  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  three  well-beaten  eggs;  cook  ten  minutes  and  put  in  pan  and 
bake  one  hour. 


Phone  203 


Established  1889 


ADORNI'S 
GROCERY 

A  Complete  and  Up-to-Date 

Line  of  Staple  and  Fancy 

Groceries 


206-208   F   St 


Eureka,   Cal. 


L.  H.  HESS 


Office  408  3d  Street 


Quality 


Service 


35 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


Casserole  Crab 

One  cup  of  picked  crab,  one  cup  of  chopped  cooked  macaroni,  two  cups  of 
milk,  one  egg,  one-third  cup  of  grated  cheese,  one  teaspoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  to  taste,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs.  Mix 
all  together,  excepting  cheese.  Pour  in  buttered  casserole  ;  put  cheese  on 
top  and  cook  in  oven  until  firm.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Tamale  Stew 

Cook  about  sixty  cents  worth  of  lean  pork  cut  up  for  stew  in  plenty  ot 
well  salted  water  until  tender.  'When  done  break  up  into  small  pieces  and 
remove  any  fat  before  adding  to  sauce  mixture.  Sauce:  Put  one  half  cup  of 
oil  in  large  frying  pan  and  heat  until  it  bubbles.  Remove  to  back  of  stove 
and  stir  into  it  carefully  four  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour.  Then  add  two 
cans  of  Del  Monte  tomato  sauce  and  about  three  and  one-half  cups  ot 
liquid  from  the  meat  to  it,  always  stirring  constantly  to  blend  and  keep 
smooth.  Mix  one  tablespoon  of  Chili  powder  and  one  tablespoon  of 
Grandma's  pepper  to  a  paste  in  a  little  water  and  add  to  the  mixture,  then 
the  meat  and  a  small  can  of  olives.  POUT  over  cornmeal  mush  which  has 
been  cooking  for  a  long  time  in  a  double  boiler  but  not  cooked  too  thick. 
Serve  individually  on  plates  garnished  with  lettuce. 

MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Tuna  Pie 

One  can  tuna  (13  oz.)  two  carrots  diced,  two  medium  potatoes  diced,  one 
medium  onion,  chopped,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flom, 
one  cup  cooked  green  peas,  one  medium  onion,  chopped;  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, two  tablespoons  flour,  cupful  milk,  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
paprika,  one  eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Boil  carrots,  potatoes,  peas  and  onions 
together  until  tender  in  small  amount  of  salted  water.  Make  white  sauce  as 
follows:  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  cook  until  bubbling;  add  milk  gradually 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  thickened.  Add  seasonings  and  mix  sauce  with 
tuna.  Line  a  baking  dish  with  plain  pastry,  fill  with  the  vegetables  and 
creamed  fish  in  layers,  cover  with  an  upper  crust  in  which  vent  holes  have 
been  marie  snd  bake  untU  the  crust  is  brown. 

MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 


Holmes  Eureka  Lumber  Company 

EUREKA,  CALIFORNIA 

On  the  Redwood  Highway 

Manufacturers  of 

Redwood  Forest  Products 

Cargo  and  Rail  Shipments 

36 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


Sliced  Lamb  with  Onion  Sauce 

Cold  sliced  lamb,  three  large  onions  one-half  tablespoon  of  Worcester- 
shire Sauce,  jucie  of  one  lemon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  a  speck  of  pepper.  Sliced  onions 
and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  sauce  pan;  add  the  lemon  juice.  Lay  the 
cold  lamb,  cut  in  slices,  on  this  bed  of  onions  and  cover  the  sauce  pan  tight- 
ly. Cook  one  hour  over  a  very  slow  fire.  Then  add  the  butter,  rolled  in 
flour,  Worcestershire  sauce,  curry  powder  and  seasoning.  Cook  five  min- 
utes longer  and  serve.  MRS.  ARTHUR  JOHNSON. 

Meat  Loaf 

Two  pounds  of  ground  beef.  Fifteen  cents  worth  of  frankfurters.  One 
cup  of  b'read  crumbs,  two  eggs,  one  Bell  pepper,  one  ground  onion,  two 
slices  lean  bacon,  one-half  can  of  Campbell's  tomato  soup.  Remove  the 
membrane  from  frankfurters  and  run  through  food  chopper,  also  grind 
onion  ;  add  pepper,  beat  the  eggs  and  add  all  to  the  ground  beef,  mixing 
thoroughly  with  the  hands,  shape  into  a  loaf,  cut  bacon  in  two  and  place 
strips  across  loaf.  Bake  in  roaster  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  MRS.  CHARLES  L.  EAST. 

Chicken  With  Peas 

Prepare  chicken  as  for  frying  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  deep  fat  .  Then 
add  two  cups  of  water  and  let  simmer  slowly;  when  nearly  done,  add  a  can 
of  peas  and  cook  slowly  for  about  thirty  minutes. 

MRS.  HENRY  LARSON. 

Stuffed  Crab 

Pick  the  meat  into  bits.  To  the  meat  put  one-third  the  quantity  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  bit  of  cayenne  pepper,  nutmeg,  a  chopped  hard  boiled  egg  for 
each  crab,  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  butter  or  cream  to  blend  together.  After 
cleaning  the  shells,  rub  with  butter  and  fill  with  the  mixture;  cover  with 
crumbs  and  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

MRS.   O.  W.   LORJJ. 


ATKINSON    &    WOODS 


5th  St.  at  G. 


Phone  435 


DRUGGISTS 

5th  St.  at  G.  Phone  435 

ATKINSON    &    WOODS 


Myron   Walsh 

NEW  STORE 

of 

0INNERWEAR 


Eureka 


Calif. 


37 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


American  Chop  Suey 

One  half  package  of  cooked  Spaghetti,  four  small  white  onions,  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  pound  of  Hamburg,  one  can 
of  tomato  soup.  Cut  onions  up  and  cook  in  butter  until  brown  and  tender. 
Add  steak  and  cook  until  partly  done.  Then  mix  into  spaghetti  and  season 
to  taste.  Over  mixture,  pour  the  Tomato  soup  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
one-half  hour.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Round  Steak  Spanish 

Prepare  round  steak  as  for  frying  and  cook  until  almost  done.  Cover 
with  hot  water,  add  one  can  of  peas,  one  small  onion,  one  can  of  tomato 
sauce  and  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  twenty  minutes  and  serve. 

MRS.   H.  J.  LARSON. 

Tamale  Pie 

Mix  corn  meal  mush  and  line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  baking  dish  with 
it.  Take  about  four  cups  of  hamburg  and  fry;  when  nearly  done,  add  one 
can  of  tomatoes  and  a  small  can  of  olives,  one  clove  of  garlic  and  a  little 
onion,  a  tablespoon  of  Spanish  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  then  turn  into  baking  pan  and  cover  with  corn  meal  mush  and  bake 
for  one-half  hour  in  slow  oven.  MRS.  G.  W.  JAMES. 

Dipped  Bacon 

Slice  bacon  thin  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Make  a  batter  of  one  egg, 
a  little  milk  and  flour  to  thicken;  then  dip  bacon  in  batter  on  both  sides 
and  fry  until  brown  in  bacon  fat.  Very  delicious. 

MRS.  G.  W.  JAMES. 

Roast  Wild  Duck 

Have  ducks  well  cleaned,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  outside  with 
melted  butter,  half  fill  with  dressing,  also  add  a  small  carrot  or  piece  of 
apple;  roast  for  three  hours  in  covered  roaster.  Dressing:  Soak  stale 
bread  crumbs  in  warm  water,  squeeze  dry  with  hands,  add  one  well  beaten 
egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sage  and  chopped  onion. 

MRS.  M.  LOUGH. 


Buster 
Brown 

Shoe 
Store 


R.  L.  HORNBROOK,  Prop. 

Eureka,  Cal. 


ARTHUR  JOHNSON'S 


The  Smart  Shop 


FOR  MEN 


Second  an  dF  Sts.     Eureka 


38 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


Tamales 

First:  Take  an  old  fat  hen  and  cut  up  fine  or  you  can  use  two  pounds 
of  pork;  add  onions  or  garlic  to  suit  taste,  also  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
until  tended  keep;ng  well  covered  with  water  so  as  to  have  plenty  of  broth. 
Second:  Strain  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  add  broth  from  meat  to  make  one 
and  one-half  quarts;  thicken  with  flour  to  make  gravy,  add  one  even  table- 
spoon of  Chili  powder  mixed  to  a  paste  in  cold  water,  salt  to  taste  and  add 
one  cup  of  ripe  olives,  then  add  the  meat,  saving  remaining  broth  for  part 
three.  Three:  Take  about  one  quart  of  remaining  broth  and  thicken  with 
cornmeal  having  mixed  cornmeal  with  cold  water  to  dampen  first;  adding  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  will  avoid  lumps;  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
of  Chili  powder.  Use  this  mixture  as  a  crust  for  meat  and  gravy. 

MRS.   E.   MELANSON. 

Steak  for  the  Oven 

A  sirloin  steak  about  two  inches  thick;  salt  it  and  put  in  a  pan,  add  two 
tablespoons  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  three  tablespoons  of  catsup  and  little 
lumps  of  butter  over  the  top.  Put  in  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 

i  Mock  Tamale 

One  can  of  corn;  one  can  of  tomatoes;  two  medium  sized  onions,  minced 
fine;  four  eggs  well  beaten;  one  and  one-third  cups  of  milk  and  one  cup  of 
cornmeal.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  cup  of  chopped,  cooked  meat  or 
olives  can  be  added  but  it  is  not  necessary.  Bake  about  an  hour  or  until 
firm.  MRS.  S.  H.  STOCKHOFF. 

Delicious  Baked  Ham 

Take  slice  of  ham  about  one  inch  thick;  mix  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  level 
tablespoon  of  mustard  and  two  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar.  POUT  over  the 
ham,  cover  closely  and  bake  about  two  hours.  Uncover  and  brown. 

MRS.  ANN  PEARSON. 

Round  Steak  Tamale 

Pound  well  and  cut  into  pieces  as  large  as  the  hand,  a  medium  sized  round 
steak.  Cut  very  thin  strips  of  salt  pork,  roll  them  up  in  the  steak  and  tie 
at  both  ends  just  like  a  tamale.  Sear  them  in  a  buttered  skillet  after  rolling 
in  flour.  Add  enough  water  to  cover  after  browned.  Put  slice  of  onion 
over  top,  dust  with  cayenne  and  black  pepper  and  simmer  about  three 
hours,  adding  water  as  needed.  Thicken  the  gravy,  add  salt  and  serve. 

MRS.   HARRY   W.   FALR. 

Chicken  and  Ham  En  Casserole 

Take  one  or  two  chickens  and  cut  up  to  fry.  Roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter. 
At  the  same  time  place  a  round  piece  of  ham  about  two  or  three  inches  thick 
in  an  iron  frying  pan  to  braise.  Keep  turning  over  so  as  to  brown  well  on 
all  sides.  When  chicken  is  tender  and  ham  braised,  put  in  an  agate  pan 
placing  the  ham  in  the  center  and  chicken  around.  Cover  with  milk  and 
simmer  in  the  oven  for  two  or  three  hours  slowly.  Belgian  Hare  can  be 
used  instead  of  chicken.  MAE  CAMPTON  FALK. 


39 


MEATS 

(Continued) 


Rice  With  Hamburg  Steak 

Cut  one  slice  of  bacon  in  small  cubes  and  place  in  fry  pan;  add  one  me- 
d-um  sized  onion  sliced  thin.  When  onion  is  tender,  add  one  cup  of  rice 
and  stir  until  grease  is  distributed  over  rice,  then  add  two  or  three  cups  of 
meat  broth  or  water  if  you  have  no  broth  and  add  one  pound  of  Hamburg 
made  into  small  cakes.  Let  simmer  slowly  unt  1  rice  is  done  or  broth  is  ab- 
sorbed, then  add  one  can  of  tomato  sauce.  Let  cook  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

EDNA  IRONS. 


Vegetables  and  Meat  Substitute  Dishes 


Walnut  Loaf 

One  cup  of  ground  walnuts,  one  cup  of  tomatoes,  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiled  rice,  one  onion,  one  kernal  of  garlic, 
one-beaten  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all 
well  and  bake  in  loaf  pan.  When  nearly  done,  cover  with  layer  of  mashed 
potatoes  and  brown. 

Hindu  Eggs 

Slice  two  hard  cooked  eggs  and  place  in  a  well  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover 
with  two  raw  eggs  well  beaten.  Sprinkle  wth  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-fourth  a  teaspoon  of  paprika  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  curry  powder. 
Place  on  top  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  one-fourth  a  cup  of  grated  cheese. 
Bake  until  browm.  This  serves  three.  M.  C.  J. 

Rhode  Island  Potatoes 

Cut  potatoes  in  slices  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  for  five  minutes.  Drain  and  spread  in  buttered  pan.  Pour  over  them 
melted  butter  and  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce;  salt  and 
paprika.  Bake  until  tender  and  brown. 

Oyster  Plant 

Scrape  and  boil  one  bunch  of  oyster  plant  until  tender.  Mash  and  add  one 
teaspoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  and  add  two  eggs.  Beat  and 
add  flour  enough  to  make  it  hold  together;  also  one-half  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice.  Dip  by  teaspoon  into  the  frying  pan  and  fry  until  brown.  Serve  with 
a  little  lemon  juice.  One  could  hardly  tell  them  from  oyster  fritters. 

M.   C.  J. 

Pacific  Pharmacy 

H.  R.SIMMONDS 

AGENTS  FOR  THE  OWL  DRUG  CO. 

Second  and  F  Streets  Eureka,  California 


40 


VEGETABLES  AND  MEAT  SUBSTITUTE  DISHES 

(Continued) 

Macaroni  With  Peanut  Butter 

One  rounding  cup  of  macaroni  cooked  until  tender;  put  two  tablespoons 
cf  peanut  butter  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  scald,  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, lump  of  butter  and  salt  to  taste.  Arrange  macaroni  in  baking  dish  with 
two-thirds  cup  of  grated,  mild  cheese;  alternately,  pour  milk  and  peanut  but- 
ter over  it  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in 
hot  oven.  Will  serve  six.  MRS.  CHAS.  ZERLANG. 

Green  Corn 

Cut  corn  from  cob  and  to  each  cup  of  corn  use  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
salt  and  paprika  to  taste.  M.elt  butter  in  pan,  add  corn  and  seasoning.  Cook 
about  five  minutes,  add  water  to  just  cover  corn,  put  cover  on  and  simmer 
about  fifteen  minutes. 

Carrot  Cakes 

Have  carrots  thoroughly  cooked  in  salt  water,  drain  and  mash.  To  each 
cup  of  carrot,  add  one  tablespoon  of  cream,  one  egg,  beaten,  and  one  heap- 
ing tablespoon  of  brown  sugar.  Beat  all  together  until  light.  Shape  into 
patties;  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  slowly  until  a  golden  brown. 

K.  L.  HARPST. 
New  Scalloped  Tomatoes 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  small  onion,  one-half  of  a  green,  sweet  pepper, 
one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  and 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  dried  bread  crumbs.  Stew  tomatoes,  onions  and 
pepper  mr'nced  fine  and  seasonings  together.  Butter  a  casserole  and  put  in 
a  layer  of  the  tomato  mixture  and  then  a  layer  of  crumbs  and  repeat.  Have 
the  top  layer  of  crumbs.  Dot  with  butter  and  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  MRS.  F.  S.  BRIDGES. 


GOOD  MATERIALS 

Are  essential  to  do  good  cook- 
ing. They  are  just  as  essential 
in  other  things.  The  Best  Ma- 
terials are  used  in 

DODGE  BROTHERS  CARS 

W.  H.  JEWETT 

Distributor 


1,  Brown 


STAPLE  AND  FANCY 
GROCERIES 

Phone   142  Clark  at   B   Sts. 

Eureka,   Calif. 


41 


VEGETABLES  AND  MEAT  SUBSTITUTE  DISHES 

(Continued) 

Baked  Parsnips 

Cook  parsnips  until  tender.  Peel  and  slice  into  buttered  baking  pan; 
sprinkle  with  salt,  brown  sugar,  and  dots  of  butter,  allowing  one  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  one  tablsepoon  each  of  butter  and  brown  sugar  for  each  cup  of 
parsnips.  Baste  and  brown  in  oven.  M.  C.  J. 

Fried  Mushrooms 

Peel,  wash  several  times,  drain  and  dip  into  a  batter  made  from  one  egg 
beaten),  adding  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MOORE. 
Stuffed  Cucumbers 

Four  large  cucumbers,  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  seasoning  of  salt, 
pepper  and  paprika;  one  finely  chopped  onion,  four  tablespoons  of  finely 
chopped  nuts  or  meat,  one  egg  and  six  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs.  Pare 
the  cucumbers,  cut  in  two  lengthwise  and  remove  seeds.  Fill  cavity  with 
ingredients  formed  into  a  dressing.  Put  bread  crumbs  on  top;  speck  with 
butter  and  bake  one  hour  until  tender.  Serve  with  white  sauce  poured  over 
the  top.  Delicious.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Baked  Beans 

One  pint  of  beans,  one-half  pound  of  salt  pork  or  bacon,  one  tablespoon 
of  molasses,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  onion, 
one  clove  garlic.  Soak  beans  over  night.  In  the  bottom  of  the  bean  jar  put 
one-half  the  pork  and  the  onion  and  the  garlic,  then  pour  in  one-half  the 
beans.  Add  the  (remainder  of  the  pork  and  then  the  beans,  then  the  mo- 
lasses, mustard  and  sugar.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake  from  six  to 
seven  hours  in  moderate  oven,  keeping  them  covered  with  water  until  the 
last  hour.  Keep  cover  on.  ETHEL  S.  BURRIS. 

Filled  Celery 

Clean  celery  and  cut  in  long  pieces  in  lengths  of  about  six  inches;  curl 
each  end  by  making  small  slits  about  one  inch  and  place  in  cold  water  for 
one  hour  or  longer.  Filling:  Use  "Kraft'"  seasoned  cheese  or  season  any 
cream  cheese  with  cream  or  butter,  paprika  and  salt.  Paprika  dusted  over 
filled  stalks  finishes.  MRS.  F.  J.  MOORE. 

String  Beans 

Prepare  beans  in  kettle  with  tight  lid  with  about  two  tablespoons  of  fat 
and  then  beans  with  no  water..  Cook  about  one  hour  over  slow  fire. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MOORE. 

Electric  Lighting  Fixtures 

Latest  Designs— Lowest  Prices 
EUREKA    ELECTRIC  CO. 

FIFTH  and  "B"  SREETS  EUREKA,  CAL. 

42 


VEGETABLES  AND  MEAT  SUBSTITUTE  DISHES 

(Continued) 

Squash  Supreme 

Remove  insides  of  six  summer  squash;  cook  until  soft,  about  15  minutes. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Add  squash  to 
sauce.  Fill  shells  with  mixture  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  on  top. 
Brown  in  hot  oven.  K.  L.  HARPST. 

Mustard  Sauce  for  Artichokes,  Asparagus,  Etc. 

Three-fourths  cup  (scant)  of  sugar,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  mustard;  salt  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  very  light. 
Mix  all  together  and  cook  over  steam  until  thick. 

MRS.  JENNIE  CARR. 

Creamed  Parsnips 

Cook  sliced  parsnips  until  just  done.  Drain  off  water,  pour  on  milk  to 
just  cover.  When  boiling,  thicken  milk  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  water.  Season  well  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  little  salt 
and  a  dash  of  pepper.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Creamed  Cabbage 

Cook  coarsely  cut  cabbage  in  two  waters.  Pour  off  water  and  just  cover 
with  milk.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  moisten  in  a  little  wa- 
ter. Season  with  a  large  piece  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
pepper.  Delicious  and  very  easily  digested.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Creamed  Celery 

Clean  and  cut  in  pieces  about  one  inch  long ;  cook  in  just  enough  water 
to  cook  and  when  done  add  milk  and  bring  to  boiling  point;  thicken  with 
blended  flour.,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MOORE. 

Potato  Fritters — Serve  with  Lamb  Chops 

Two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes, 
one  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  con- 
sistency. Add  egg  to  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then  add  the  flour 
and  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  drop  in  deep  hot  fat.  Fry  until  a  gold- 
en brown.  MRS.  BESSIE  TAYLOR. 


Harvey  M.  Harper 


LINCOLN 


FORDSON 


Eureka,  Calif. 


PUTER&QUINN 

First  National  Bank  Bldg. 
EUREKA,  CAL. 


43 


VEGETABLES  AND  MEAT  SUBSTITUTE  DISHES 

(Continued) 

Stuffed  Peppers 

Take  three  parts  of  finely  chopped  beef,  one  part  of  finely  chopped  pork, 
two  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoon  of  mustard,  one 
egg,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Take  Bell  peppers,  remove  tops  and  seeds  and 
fill  with  mixture.  Place  in  pan  with  a  little  hot  water.  Put  specks  of  butter 
on  the  top  and  bake  one  hour. 

Southern  Sweet  Potatoes 

One  dozen  small  sweet  potatoes,  two  quarts  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  one  pint  brown  sugar  one  cup  of  hot  water,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Boil  the  potatoes  in  two  quarts 
of  hot  water  until  tender.  Peel  and  arrange  in  a  shallow  pan.  Boil  cup  of 
sugar  and  water  ten  minutes.  Sprinkle  potatoes  with  salt  and  cinnamon  and 
add  the  butter  to  the  sauce.  Then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  potatoes  and 
bake  until  brown.  This  will  serve  six.  ETHEL  BURRIS. 

Fried  Green  Tomatoes 

Thickly  slice  the  green  tomatoes  and  soak  in  salted  water  for  two  hours; 
put  a  generous  piece  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  dip  each  slice  in  flour  and 
fry  until  brown. 

Potato  Ponpons 

Boil  potatoes,  mash  and  season  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter and  bits  of  boiled  ham;  make  into  balls;  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
or  bake  in  loaf  in  oven.  KATHERINE  CUMMINGS. 


F.  A.  MATTHEWS  &  SON 

WHOLESALE  and  RETAIL  DEALERS 

BASS-HUETER  Paints,  Varnishes,  Stains,  and  Mfg'd  Products 

JOHNSON'S  Waxes,  Etc. 
PARAFFINS  GO'S.  Roofing  and  Sheeting  Papers 

WALL  PAPER WALL  BOARDS 

EUREKA CALIFORNIA 


44 


SALADS 


Luncheon  Salad 

Cook  for  one-half  hour  in  two  quarts  of  salted  water,  one  cup  of  mac- 
aroni; add  one  teaspoon  of  Kitchen  Bouquet  while  boiling;  when  done  put 
in  colander  and  run  cold  water  through  it.  Cut  in  half  inch  pieces,  mix 
with  one  cup  of  finely  cut  celery,  three  hard  boiled  eggs  minced,  a  teaspoon 
of  grated  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Moisten  well  with  Mayonnaise 
dressing,  put  a  spoonful  of  dressing  on  top  of  each  serving,  garnish  with  ripe 
olives.  Dressing:  To  one  well  beaten  egg,  add  one  level  teaspoon  each  of 
salt,  mustard  and  vinegar  and  slowly  add  oil  to  thicken,  Wesson  oil  pre- 
ferred. 

Salad  for  Six 

Six  slices  of  canned  pineapple;  one-half  cup  of  cottage  cheese;  one  table- 
spoon of  chopped  pimento  ;  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  green  pepper;  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  of  salt;  six  nut  meat  halves;  six  pieces  of  lettuce  and  six 
tablespoons  of  salad  dressing.  Add  the  chopped  pimento,  green  pepper  and 
salt  to  the  cottage  cheese.  Mix  all  together  and  shape  into  balls  one  inch  in 
diameter.  Place  a  ball  in  the  center  of  each  slice  of  pineapple  which  has 
been  arranged  on  a  piece  of  lettuce.  Place  a  nut  meat  on  the  top  of  each 
cheese  ball.  Serve  with  one  tablespoon  of  salad  dressing. 

Medley  Salad 

One  cup  Muscat  grapes  seeded  and  halved,  one  cup  diced  apple,  one-half 
cup  celery  sliced  thin,  one-haif  broken  walnut  meats,  one  cup  diced  pine- 
apple, Dress. ng:  Three  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one-half 
tablespoon  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  butter.  M>ix  dry  ingredients  and  stir  to 
a  smooth  paste  with  boiling  water.  Add  milk  and  well  beaten  eggs  and 
put  in  double  boiler.  Heat  vinegar  to  boiling  point  to  avoid  curdling  and 
add  to  mixture,  stirring  well  until  blended.  Add  butter  when  removed  from 
the  fire.  When  thoroughly  cold  add  a  little  pineapple  juice  and  mix  with 
the  fruit.  Toss  lightly  together  and  garnish  with  pimentos  and  serve  on 
one-half  pear  or  lettuce  leaf.  This  amount  will  serve  six  people  or  if  served 
with  the  pear,  eight.  MRS.  E.  T.  REED. 

HincH,  Salmon  &  Walsh  Co. 


Main  Store  Cash  and  Carry  Store 

Fifth  and  E  Sts.— Phone  813        »  525  Fifth  St. 

Golden  Rule  Groceteria 

FIFTH  and  H  STS.  Opposite  Post  Office  EUREKA,  CAL. 


45 


SALADS 

(Continued) 


Fruit  Salad 

Use  four  bananas,  four  oranges,  one  cup  of  pineapple,  one  cup  of  chopped 
nuts,  one  cup  of  marshmellows.  Cut  oranges,  bananas,  pineapple  and  mash- 
mellows  into  small  pieces.  Add  nuts  and  salad  dressing  mixed  with  a  little 
cream.  MRS.  JAMES  W.  HAMNER. 

Tuna  Fish  Salad 

One  cup  of  Tuna,  one  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  two  cups  of  hard 
boiled  eggs.  Combine  with  enough  salad  dressing  to  moisten  thoroughly. 

MRS.  JAMES  W.   HAMNER. 

Crab  Louie 

Line  a  dish  with  lettuce  leaves.  Fill  alternately  with  a  layer  of  shredded 
lettuce  and  then  shredded  crab.  Add  three  small  tomatoes  and  enougn 
onion  to  flavor.  Mix  with  Thousand  Island  Dressing.  Thousand  Island 
Dressing:  One  cup  of  Mayonnaise,  one  tablespoon  of  catsup,  two  table- 
spoons of  chili  sauce,  one  hard  boiled  egg  and  two  sweet  pickles,  both 
chopped  fine.  MRS.  DAYTON  MURRAY. 

Pineapple  and  Cheese  Salad 

Mix  equal  parts  of  mild  cheese,  chopped  celery  and  chopped  walnuts. 
Moisten  with  cream  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Roll  into 
small  balls  and  place  one  pineapple  or  pears.  ETHEL  BURRIS. 

New  Potato  Salad 

Cut  one  can  of  Pimento  in  little  strips.  Add  two  cups  of  cubed,  boiled 
new  potatoes  and  three  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced,  two  slices  of  finely  chopped 
onion  and  a  little  parsley.  Mix  with  a  boiled  dressing. 

MRS.   KEITH  HAMNER. 

Pineapple  Salad  with  Grated  Cheese 

Use  sliced  pineapple  on  lettuce;  add  Mayonnaise  salad  dressing  and  put 
grated  cheese  on  top  of  the  dressing.  MRS.  N.  LAWRENCE. 


Wa  are  Distributors  of 
CARD  INDEX  SETS  of 
COOKING  RECEIPTS 


They  are  very  handy  outfits 
TRY  THEM' 

C.  0.  LINCOLN  CO. 

Bookseelers  and  Stationers 
Eureka,  Cal. 


Diamond 

Fruit 

Company 

(Incorporated) 
COMMISSION   MERCHANTS 


P.  O.  Box  146 
Telephone  49 

Eureka        -         •          -  ....California 


46 


SALADS 

(Continued) 


My  Lady's  Salad 

Six  tomatoes;  one  pineapple;  one  head  of  celery;  one-half  pint  of  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Peel  the  tomatoes  and  cut  them  into  halves;  remove  the 
seeds  and  core.  Pare  the  pineapple,  take  out  the  eyes,  cut  it  into  slices  of  a 
half  inch,  and  then  cut  these  slices  into  squares  of  a  half  inch,  rejecting  the 
core.  Cut  the  white  portion  of  the  celery  the  same  size,  and  mix  the  two. 
Put  each  half  of  tomato  on  the  nests  of  lettuce  leaves;  heap  on  top  the  pine- 
apple and  celery;  cover  with  mayonnaise;  dust  with  a  little  chopped  pimento 
or  parsley  and  send  to  the  table.  MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN. 

Pear  Salad 

Six  halves  of  pears  ;  one-half  cup  of  cottage  cheese;  one  tablespoon  of 
chopped  pimento;  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  green  pepper;  six  halves  of 
walnuts;  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  paprika;  six  tablespoons  of  salad  dressing 
and  six  pieces  of  lettuce.  Arrange  the  pears  on  the  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  the 
cheese,  pimento,  green  pepper  and  paprika  thoroughly.  Fill  the  half  of  the 
pear  with  the  mixture.  Place  salad  dressing  over  it  and  lay  one  nut  meat 
over  each  portion. 

Fruit  Salad 

Six  oranges;  six  bananas;  juice  of  two  lemons;  one  can  pineapple,  sliced; 
four  cups  sugar;  one  package  Kmox  gelatine,  dissolved  ;  two  cups  hot  water; 
two  cups  cold  water;  pineapple  juice.  Pour  over  fruit  and  put  away  to  cool. 
Mayonnaise  or  whipped  cream  for  dressing.  Serves  twenty-two.  This  can 
be  made  day  before  ready  to  use.  MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN. 

Neapolitan  Salad 

Two  cups  of  chopped  cabbage;  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  pimentos; 
two  tablespoons  of  chopped  green  pepper;  one-third  cup  of  celery;  one  cup 
of  diced  pineapple;  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-half  cup  of  mayonnaise. 
Mix  all  the  ingrelients  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


ZOOK'S 

News  Depot  and 

Stationery  Store 


San  Francisco  Examiner 
and  Call  Agency 

524  F  Street 


Opposite  Rialto 


Eureka,  Cal 


fell 


Confectionery  and 
Ice  Cream  Parlor 

Light 
Lunches 

Phone  839-J 


522  F  Street 


Eureka  Cal. 


47 


SALADS 

(Continued) 


.    Crab  Louis 

One  cup  of  mayonnaise,  one  cup  Heinz  Cocktail  Sauce,  two  crabs,  one  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  one  clove  of  garlic 
diced  fine,  one-half  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  Sauce,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Mix  well  the  mayonnaise  and  cocktail 
sauce,  then  shred  the  crabs.  If  crabs  are  not  in  season,  use  two  cans  of  a 
good  brand  of  canned  crab,  afterwards  adding  the  rest  of  the  seasoning  and 
serve  as  a  first  course.  MAE  CAMPTON  FALK:. 

Picnic  Salad 

One  cup  of  macaronni  broken  up  and  boiled  in  salted  water;  four  medium 
sized  potatoes  boiled  and  diced;  one-half  cup  of  onion,  one-half  cup  of  cel- 
ery and  one  tablespoon  of  parsley  chopped  together.  Cover  with  mayon- 
naise and  blend.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce.  MRS.  W.  F.  CLYBORNE. 

Crab  Cocktail 

One  cup  of  salad  dressing,  one  cup  of  cocktail  sauce,  one  small  onion, 
one  Bell  pepper  and  meat  of  two  crabs. 

Fruit  Salad 

One  can  white  cherries,  remove  pit;  one  can  pineapple,  large  ;  one  pound 
white  grapes,  remove  seeds;  one  pound  marshmallows.  Serves  twenty. 

Orange  Salad 

This  salad  should  be  served  with  the  game  course. 

Line  the  salad  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  put  over  them  three 
good-sized  oranges,  sliced.  Rub  the  bowl  in  which  the  French  dressing  is 
mixed  with  a  clove  of  garlic.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  salad  and  serve  at 
once. 


Office    Phone    479          Res.    1937-J 

Rotermund  Fur 
House    .     .     . 

MANUFACTURING 
FURRIERS 

Re-Modeling,         Re-Dyeing, 
Re -Pairing 


521  F  Street 


Eureka,  Cal. 


D.  W.  Hanson         Oscar  W.  Lord 

Lord-Hanson  Co. 

REAL     ESTATE 

Summer  Home  Sites,  Conveyancing 

Notary    Public,    Insurance 

Loans 


410   Fifth   Street 


Eureka,  Calif. 


48 


SALAD  DRESSING 


Salad  Dressing 

Six  egg  yolks,  s;x  tablespoons  of  oil,  six  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  ta- 
blespoons of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  eighteen  tablespoons  of  vin- 
egar and  eighteen  tablespoons  of  milk.  Put  yolks  in  a  bowl  and  stir  well, 
add  oil  a  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  mixed.  Mix  together  all  dry  ingredients 
and  add  to  oil  and  eggs;  add  vinegar  a  little  at  a  time,  then  add  milk.  Cook 
until  as  thick  as  custard.  If  thin  thicken  with  cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk. 
When  cool,  sprinkle  with  paprika.  MRS.  A.  I.  DUPREY. 

Salad   Dressing 

One  cup  condensed  milk,  two  pinches  soda,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  vinegar.  Beat  until  it  will  foam  and  look  like  whipped  cream.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  little  mustard  if  desired. 

Dressing  for  Lettuce 

Mix  three  heaping  teaspoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  mustard,  a  little  salt 
and  a  small  amount  of  cayenne  or  paprika.  Add  to  it  three  teaspoons  of 
vinegar  and  a  scant  half  cup  of  sweet  or  sour  cream.  Pour  over  shredded 
crisp  lettuce  and  serve  individually  as  a  salad.  This  will  serve  two;  double 
if  necessary.  MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one 
cup  of  cold  water,  two  teaspoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  the  water,  salt 
and  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  cook  in  double  cooker  and  thin 
with  one  cup  of  cream. 

Salad  Dressing 

One  cup  mayonna;se  (either  boiled  or  beaten),  one  hard-boiled  egg;  four 
tablespoons  chili  sauce,  using  the  mayonnaise  for  the  foundation.  Thor- 
oughly mix  in  the  egg,  which  has  been  chopped  into  very  small  pieces;  then 
blend  in  the  chili  sauce  until  the  whole  is  a  delicate  pink.  Chopped  olives 
and  pimentos  may  be  added  if  desired.  This  method  is  a  great  deal  less  ex- 
pensive, also  considerably  less  work  than  the  method  generally  used,  and 
the  results  are  practically  the  same.  MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN. 


PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY        v«,                      PERRY 
PERRY         I  GUP                 PERRY 

PERRY      Fireproof     PERRY 

PERRY        c-    Jr.               PERRY 

PERRY     rrienti          PERRY 

PERRY                Notary       PERRY 
PERRY                  Public       PERRY 
PERRY        Phone    370         PERRY 
PERRY       313   G  St.          PERRY 
PERRY      Eureka,  Calif.      PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 
PERRY  PERRY  PERRY  PERRY 

J.    LOGAN   BEAMER 

Attorney  and  Counsellor-at-Law 

617  THIRD  St. 
Phone  173           EUREKA,  CAL. 

49 


SALAD  DRESSING 

(Continued) 


Cooked  Salad  Dressing 

Drop  in  bowl  one  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  salad  oil,  two  tablespoons, 
vinegar,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  pre- 
pared mustard,  one  tablespoon  Worcester  sauce,  dash  of  paprika.  Stir  two 
or  three  times  with  tablespoon.  Place  on  stove  one-half  cup  boiling  water 
to  which  has  been  added  butter  size  of  walnut.  Previous  to  this  have  blend- 
ed three  level  tablespoonsful  of  flour  with  one-half  cup  of  warm  water.  Cook 
together  thoroughly  then  pour  into  above  and  beat  all  with  a  Dover  beateT 
for  about  one  minute.  After  it  is  beaten  stir  occasionally  until  cold  to  pre- 
vent scum  forming.  Keep  in  covered  jar.  MRS.  CHAS.  EAST. 
New  Kind  Salad  Dressing 

Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  heaping  tablespoon 
of  flour  made  smooth  in  water,  two  egg  yolks  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar. 
When  thick,  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  three 
tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  one-half  cup  of  salad  oil.  Beat  vigorously  with 
egg  beater.  Delicious  on  fruit  salad.  MRS.  KEITH  HAMNER. 

Sour  Cream  Salad  Dressing 

One  egg  to  a  cup  of  sour  cream;  one  good  tablespoon  of  sugar;  one  tea- 
spoon of  mustard  (scant)  ;  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix  dry  ingredients  to- 
gether. A  good  half  cup  of  vinegar  added  last.  Thicken  with  a  little  corn- 
starch  (moistened)  after  it  begins  to  cook.  Add  a  little  pepper  and  a  dash 
of  paprika.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  Put  in  a  pint  jar  and  cover 
and  it  will  keep  for  some  time.  When  using  thin  with  sweet  cream. 

MRS.  JENNIE  CARR. 
Salad  Dressing 

One  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  water;  put  on  fire  with  a  lump  of  butter, 
one  tablespoon  cornstarch  wet  with  cold  water,  two  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten  and  add  quickly  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add 
cream  when  used.  MRS.  JENNIE  CARR. 

Salad  Dressing  for  Fruits 

Half  cup  pineapple  juice  ;  half  cup  lemon  juice;  one  cup  sugar;  bring  to 
boil;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Cook  until  thick.  Will  keep  long  time.  Add 
whipped  cream  to  amount  of  dressing  to  be  used  each  time. 

Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten;  juice  of  one  lemon;  cup  warm  milk;  salt. 
Make  into  thin  custard.  When  ready  to  use  fold  in  one  pint  whipped  cream. 


H.  H.  Buhne  Cojnc.  | 


HARDWARE   and    GROCERIES 

SPORTING  GOODS  STOVES  and  TINWARE 

CROCKERY  and  GLASSWARE 

THIRD  and  F  STS.  CARSON  BLDG.  EUREKA,  CAL. 

50 


RELISHES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 


Mustard  Pickles 

Two  quarts  of  sliced  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  of  button  onions,  two 
quarts  of  small  cucumbers,  two  quarts  of  cauliflower,  one  quart  of  celery 
and  if  you  like,  add  green  peppers.  Mix  with  one  cup  of  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  carefully,  then  scald  and  drain  again. 
Mix  thoroughly  to  a  paste  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  of  sifted  flour,  one  ounce  of  ground  tumeric,  one  half  pound  of 
ground  mustard,  one  cup  of  vinegar.  Pour  into  kettle  three  quarts  of  vine- 
gar; when  hot  stir  in  the  paste  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Boil  five  min- 
utes, add  vegetables  and  cook  gently  until  liquid  is  rich  and  creamy.  Re- 
move and  seal.  MRS.  ANN  PEARSON. 

Uncooked  Relish 

Four  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  chopped;  two  cups  celery;  two  cups  green  pep- 
pers; one  cup  salt.  Let  stand  over  night  and  drain.  In  the  morning  add: 
three  cups  vinegar;  two  cups  sugar;  two  tablespoons  celery  seed;  one  table- 
spoon cinnamon.  Mix  well  and  cover  closely  for  five  days  when  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  MRS.  E.  J.  REED. 

Spanish  Sauce 

Twelve  peeled  tomatoes,  six  onions,  four  green  peppers,  one  cup  of 
vinegar,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  cin- 
namon. Boil  four  or  five  hours. 

Pickled  Figs 

Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  five  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  cup 
of  water,  one  third  cup  of  whole  cloves  and  two-thirds  cup  of  stick  cinna- 
mon. Make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  vinegar  and  water;  skim  and  add  the  spices; 
scald  figs  in  syrup  on  three  consecutive  mornings.  On  the  third  morning 
put  the  figs  in  a  jar,  boil  the  syrup  to  the  consistency  of  molasses  and  pour 
over  figs;  then  put  in  spices.  If  the  figs  have  tough  skins,  cook  in  boiling 
water  until  tender,  then  use  the  water  to  make  the  syrup. 

EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 


DUCK   BROS. 


617  Fourth   St.  Eureka,   Calif. 


CRYSTAL 
CAFE 

THE  HOUSE 

of 
COURTESY 


523   Fourth   St.  Eureka,   Cal. 


51 


RELISHES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

(Continued) 


Corn  Relish 

Two  quarts  of  vinegar,  two  quarts  of  fresh  corn,  three  red  peppers,  three 
green  peppers,  one  pint  of  celery,  two  quarts  of  cabbage,  one  quart  of  cu- 
cumbers, one  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  mustard,  two  tablespoons 
of  salt,  two  small  onions  and  two  ripe  tomatoes.  Chop  all  vegetables  very 
fine.  Cook  twenty  minutes.  Simmer  and  don't  boil,  then  rapidly  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  put  in  jars.  ETHEL  BURRIS. 

Chili  Sauce 

Fifty  ripe  tomatoes;  twenty-five  onions;  twelve  green  peppers;  one  bunch 
celery.  Chop  fine  and  add  one  and  one-half  gallons  vinegar;  three  cups 
sugar ;  one  tablespoon,  each,  alspice,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon. ;  two  ta- 
blespoons salt.  Boil  two  and  one-half  hours. 

MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN 
Tomato  Catsup 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  three-fourths  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  onion 
grated,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  paprika,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  three  branches 
of  parsley  chopped,  one  celery  stock,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  clove  of 
garlic.  Let  all  simmer  together  until  reduced  to  about  one  pint.  Press 
through  a  sieve  and  reheat  and  store  in  a  jar. 

EVELYN  C.  VANCE. 

Cranberry  Conserve 

One  quart  of  cranberries,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  one-fourth  pound 
of  raisins,  one-half  pound  of  chopped  walnuts,  juice  of  one  orange  and  one 
and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar.  Wash  fruit.  Cook  cranberries  in  water  until 
merries  burst  open.  Strain.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Cook  twenty 
minutes  until  mixture  is  thick.  Pour  into  glasses.  When  cool,  seal  and 
cover. 

Sure  Cranberry  Sauce 

One  quart  of  cranberries,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  water.  Put 
all  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  twelve  minutes,  mash  berries  on  side  of  saucepan 
while  boiling.  Strain  through  sieve  and  mold. 


RETAIL          MEATS     WHOLESALE 

RUSS  MARKET — Third  and  G  Sts. 
CENTRAL  MARKET — 430  F  St.  I 
EASTERN  MARKET — Fifth  and  J  Sts. 
B  STREET  MARKET — 1033  B  St. 

Russ  Market  Co. 

PROPRIETORS 

EUREKA  -          -  -!»/-.>.-  CALIFORNIA 


52 


RELISHES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

(Continued) 


Orange  Marmalade 

Five  oranges,  two  lemons;  slice  and  add  three  pints  of  water  and  set 
away  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  put  on  fire  and  boil  rapidly  forty-five 
minutes.  Set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours,  weigh  and  to  every  pound,  add 
one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar.  Boil  rapidly  fifty  minutes  and  put 
into  glasses.  ETHEL  BURRIS. 

Mustard 

One  tablespoon  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar 
and  one-half  cup  of  milk.  Mix  mustard,  sugar  and  salt  and  wet  gradually 
with  the  egg  and  part  of  the  milk.  Rub  the  cornstarch  smooth  in  the  rest 
of  the  milk  and  add  to  the  first  part.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  cook.  When 
heated,  add  the  vinegar  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 

MRS.  W.   F.  CLYBORNE. 

Chow  Chow 

Two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  good  sized  white  onions,  two 
quarts  of  vinegar,  one  quart  of  sugar  (part  brown),  two  tablespoons  of  salt, 
two  tablespoons  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  each  of  black  pepper,  cloves 
and  allspice.  Slice  tomatoes  without  peeling;  dice  onions,  add  sugar  and 
spices  and  pour  over  the  vinegar.  Put  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  simmer 
all  day,  then  bottle.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  sugar  to  taste.  This  is  a 
very  easy  way  and  very  good.  MAE  CAMPTON  FALKJ. 

Spanish  Sauce 

Twelve  peeled  Tomatoes,,  6  onions,  4  green  peppers,  1  cup  vinegar,  2  cups 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon.  Boil  four  or  five  hours. 

Tomato  Sauce 

One  can  tomato  puree,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  small  onion  sliced  thin. 
Mix  together  and  boil  slowly  until  it  thickens. 


Hemstitching,         phone  1386 

Stamping, 

Art  Needlework  Supplies 

Eureka  Photo 

and  Art  Co. 

511   Fourth   Sts.  Eureka,  Cal. 


Dan   McClure  Bert   McCreery 

McCLURE   &   McCREERY 

Manufacturing  and 
Refracting  Opticians 

333   F   Street — Near  4th 
Eureka          -  -          Calif. 


53 


RELISHES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

(Continued) 


Tomato  Catsup 

A  small  box  of  tomatoes  or  enough  to  make  a  gallon  when  stewed;  add 
one-half  teacup  of  salt  and  cook  until  soft.  Put  through  a  collander  and 
cook  until  quite  thick  after  which  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  Cayenne,  one-half  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoon 
of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  one  quart  of  vinegar  or 
one  pint  if  strong.  Put  through  a  s:eve  to  remove  seeds.  By  adding  spices 
last,  it  will  prevent  cooking  on  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Two  or  three  small 
onions  may  be  added  to  the  first  part.  Stir  while  cooking. 

MRS.  W.  F.   CLYBORNE. 

"Try  Me"  Marmalade 

Five  medium  sized  oranges  and  one  lemon.  Slice  all  very  thin,  omitting 
some  of  the  peeling.  To  each  cup  of  fruit  add  three  cups  of  water.  Let 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  boil.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  add 
one  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  fruit  mixture.  Boil  until  thick,  like  honey. 

MRS.  GEORGE  DOPPLMAIER 

Fruit  Medley  Conserve 

Pare  and  core  two  pounds  of  quinces;  one  and  one-half  pounds  pears,  half 
pound  of  sour,  green  apples.  Pare  and  remove  pits  from  two  pounds  of 
ripe  peaches.  Cut  three  lemons  into  slices  and  remove  seeds.  Put  the 
whole  through  a  chopper,  rather  coarse;  weigh  the  mixture  and  allow  three- 
fourths  its  weight  in  sugar.  Mix  fruit  and  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night. 
The  next  day  boil  and  stir  constantly;  add  one  pound  of  nuts,  ground  fine, 
five  minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire.  Pack  and  seal  at  once. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CARBRAY 

Water  Melon  Pickle 

Peel  rind  and  cut  in  one  inch  pieces.  Soak  in  salt  water  over  night;  drain. 
Parboil  a  short  time,  then  cook  in  following  syrup  till  tender:  Equal  parts 
of  sugar  and  vinegar.  Boil  down  slightly.  Add  one  teaspoon  allspice  and 
cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  ginger  and  little  cloves. 

MRS.  J.  N.  CHAIN 


T.   H.   Selvage          Eugene  Selvage 

SELVAGE  &  SELVAGE 

ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW 


Eureka 


California 


B.  B.  BARTLETT 


OPTOMETRIST 


Manufacturing  Optician 


232  F.   St. 


Eureka,  Cal. 


54 


RELISHES,  PRESERVES,  ETC. 

(Continued) 


Pear  Preserves 

Eight  pounds  pears,  weighed  after  peeling;  five  pounds  sugar;  one-half 
pound  preserved  ginger  ;  six  lemons  (pulp)  rind  of  three.  Put  all  together 
in  layers  and  let  stand  over  night.  Cook  slowly  four  or  five  hours  or  until 
tender. 

Apricot  Marmalade 

Ten  pounds  of  apricots  peeled;  seven  pounds  of  sugar;  two  cans  of  grated 
pineapple;  juice  of  four  lemons  and  almond  extract.  Boil  apricots  in  their 
own  juice  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Add  sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes;  add 
pineapple  and  lemon  juice  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.  Add  extract  of  al- 
mond or  chopped  blanched  almonds  and  kernels  of  apricot  seeds  chopped, 
about  one-fourth  a  cup. 

Spiced  Plums 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  brown  sugar;  one  pint  vinegar;  one  ounce  each 
of  cloves,  alspice  and  mace;  two  ounces  cinnamon;  seven  pounds  plums.  Put 
spices  in  bag  and  cook  slowly  till  juice  is  thick,  like  syrup. 


M.  J.  McClelland    W.  E.  McClelland 
Palmer  Graduates 

McClelland  Chiropractic 
Offices 

First  Nat.  Bank  Bldg,  Rm.  508  ; 
Eureka,  Cal.;  Phone  594;  Hours:  10 
to!2  a.  m.;  2  to  5  p.  m.  7  to  8  p.  m. 

Minor  Apts.,  Apt.  B,  Arcata,  Cal. 
Phone  155-J;  2  to  5  and  7  to  8  p  m. 


Service 


Quality 


Harry  Paul 


THE 

RELIABLE 
CLOTHIER 


Eureka 


Calif. 


55 


ICES 


Pineapple  Ice  Cream 

Add  one  pint  can  grated  pineapple  to  one  half  cup  sugar  and  three  pints 
of  thin  cream.  Let  stand  one  hour,  then  freeze. 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

For  one  gallon  freezer,  take  one  quart  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  quart 
cf  water.  Boil  to  a  syrup  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  one  can  of  grated  pine- 
apple. Add  juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Put 
in  freezer  and  add  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  enough  water  to  make 
three  quarts  altogether.  M.  E.  R. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 

Mash  and  hull  two  quarts  of  berries,  sprinkle  with  two  cups  of  sugar  and 
let  stand  awhile.  Mash  thoroughly  and  mix  with  three  pints  of  thin  cream 
and  freeze. 

Raspberry  Sherbet 

Mash  one  quart  of  berries  and  cover  with  one  pint  of  sugar.  Let  stand 
until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  the  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Put  through  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth,  squeezing  through  as 
much  berry  pulp  as  possible.  Freeze. 

Maple  Mousse 

Three-fourths  cup  of  maple  syrup,  one  pint  of  double  cream,  two  eggs 
beaten  separately.  Mix  syrup  and  yolks  and  boil  once.  Then  beat  until 
cold.  Add  to  whipped  cream  and  beaten  whites.  Pack  and  let  stand  sev- 
eral hours.  MRS.  CLARENCE  TABOR. 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

Two  quarts  of  water,  two  quarts  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  gelatine 
(soften  in  a  little  cold  water,  dissolve  in  hot  water  and  strain),  juice  of  ten 
lemons  and  two  cans  of  grated  pineapple.  Enough  for  two  gallons. 

MRS.  CLARENCE  TABOR. 


ARCHIE  CANEPA 

Clothier  &  Gent's  Furnisher 

Hats,  Shoes,  Suit  Cases 

432  Second  St. 


Eureka 


California 


Telephone  686 


30  Fifth  St. 


Fowler  Auto 

Top  Works 

and   Furniture   Upholstering 

Makers  of  All  Kinds  of  Auto  Tops 
Cushions,  Curtains,  Body  Repairs 

Eureka,  California 


56 


ICES 

(Continued) 


Orange  Cream  Sherbet 

First  Part:  Soak  one  tablespoon  of  geletine  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water 
for  five  mnutes.  Then  dissolve  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  boiling  water 
or  use  pineapple  juice  in  the  same  amount  if  you  have  it.  Second  Part: 
After  first  part  is  cold,  add  to  it  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  grate  rind 
of  two  oranges,  three-fourths  cup  of  lemon  juice  and  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  orange  juice.  Freeze  all  this  until  in  a  mush.  Then  whip  a  pint  of  cream, 
not  too  thickly,  and  add  to  it  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  two  eggs.  First 
whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff,  afterwards  adding  the  yolks.  Add 
this  mixture  to  chilled  mixture,  then  add  nearly  a  quart  of  milk,  according 
to  the  size  of  your  freezer,  then  freeze.  Be  sure  and  partly  freeze  the  first 
two  parts  so  that  adding  the  oream  and  egg  mixture  does  not  cause  it  to 
curdle.  MRS.  ERNEST  MATTHEWS. 

Lemon  Mint  Ice 

Bruise  a  good  handful  of  fresh  mint  leaves,  place  in  a  bowl  and  pour  over 
one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Let  this  steep  while  the  other  ingredients  are  be- 
ing prepared.  Dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  of 
hot  water;  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  one  large  orange;  one  cup  of 
sugar  and  the  water  from  the  mint  leaves  which  should  be  squeezed 
dry.  These  quantities  when  frozen  should  yield  one  quart  of  ice. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CARBRAY. 

Peach  Milk  Sherbet 

Pare  and  slice  and  force  through  a  sieve,  ten  peaches  mixed  with  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  rich  milk.  Freeze  as 
usual  and  serve  in  cups  and  decorate  each  service  with  a  large  blackberry. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CARBRAY. 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 


Bon  Boniere  Candy  Store 

the   Home   of 

Chocolates    Supreme 

FINE    CONFECTIONS 

431  F  Street  Eureka,  Cal. 


57 


CANDY  MAKING 


Canned  milk  prevents  graining. 
Lemon  juice  makes  candy  creamy. 

Atmospheric  conditions  affect  candy.    A  damp  or  foggy  day  requires  more 
cooking. 

Cover  sauce  pan  until  syrup  boils  to  prevent  sugar  grains  forming.    If  any 
form  wipe  off  with  damp  cloth. 

When  making  cream  candies  divide  mixture  into  several  cups  and  place 
in  pan  of  warm  water  to  keep  soft. 

Add  coloring  to  candies  with  tooth  pick  to  make  delicate  color. 


Turkish  Delight  Candy 

One  quart  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  hot  water, 
one  box  gelatine,  juice  of  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange, 
one-half  pound  finely  blanched  almonds,  one-half  pound  finely  cut  wal- 
nuts. Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  hot  water.  Let  sugar  and  a  half  cup 
of  cold  water  come  to  boil;  add  gelatine  and  boil  ten  minutes;  add  juice  of 
lemon  and  orange  and  its  rind  ;  lastly  the  nuts.  Pour  in  shallow  pan  pre- 
viously wet  with  water.  Let  stand  over  night  then  cut  in  brick  shape 
squares  and  roll  in  powered  sugar.  It  will  burn  easily. 

MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Butter  Scotch 

One  cup  Karo  or  light  molasses;  one  cup  sugar;  one  tablespoon  butter. 
Boil  until  hard  when  dropped  into  water.  Run  on  buttered  flat  dish  and 
cut  into  squares  when  cold. 

MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Marshmallow  Candy 

Two  tablespoons  gelatine  thoroughly  soaked  in  six  tablespoons  cold  wa- 
ter. Boil  two  cups  granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  boiling  water  until  it  forms 
ball  in  cold  water.  Pour  over  dissolved  gelatine  and  beat  hard  for  twenty 
minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon  flavoring  and  pour  on  pan  dredged  with  powd- 
ered sugar.  Cut  in  squares  and  roll  each  piece  in  sifted  powdered  sugar. 

MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 


P.  B.  Anderson 
Furniture  Co. 


Dealer  in  Dealers  in 

Furniture,  Stoves,  Ranges 

and  the  Florence  Oil  Stove  Fregh  and  Pickled 


Upholstering,   Repairing  and   Crat- 
ing Our  Specialty 

Phone  288      'l09   5th   St.       Eureka 


Hurlbutt  Meat 
Market .... 

Baumgartner   Bros. 


MEATS 


312-314  Fifth  'St.  Eureka,  Cal. 


I 


58 


CANDY  MAKING 

(Continued) 


Peanut  Brittle 

Take  equal  parts  sugar  and  peanuts  that  have  been  shelled  and  broken. 
Melt  sugar  in  iron  frying  pan  until  golden  syrup  is  formed.  Remove  from 
fire  and  add  peanuts.  Pour  on  ungreased  platter.  When  cold  break  into 
pieces.  MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 

Patience  Candy 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  tablespoons  butter,  three-fourths  cup 
nuts,  vanilla.  Carmalize  one  cup  of  sugar,  mix  two  cups  of  sugar  and  the 
milk  together.  Put  the  butter  into  milk  and  sugar  solution  and  heat  the 
mixture  until  the  sugar  begins  to  dissolve.  Do  not  boil  the  milk  and  sugar, 
however.  Pour  over  the  carmalized  sugar.  Boil  until  soft  ball  is  formed 
in  cold  water.  Beat  until  stiff  and  add  chopped  nuts.  Pour  into  buttered 
pan.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking.  CORA  CAVE. 

Chocolate  Fudge 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-third  cup  syrup,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  squares  choc- 
olate. Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  boil  until  it  forms  soft  ball  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  flavoring  and  a  little  piece  of  butter. 
Beat  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  tin.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling. 

CORA  CAVE. 

Rocky  Roads 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  Baker's  chocolate;  one  pound  of  marshmel- 
lows;  one  and  one-half  cups  of  walnuts  and  twenty  cents  worth  of  cocoanut 
oil.  Melt  chocolate  and  oil  together.  Pour  over  the  broken  walnuts  and 
marshmellows.  When  cold,  cut  in  squares.  MRS.  GEORGE  CLONEY. 

Karo  Fudge 

Two  squares  chocolate,  one-half  cup  cold  milk,  two  cups  brown  or  gran- 
ulated sugar,  one-third  cup  Karo  syrup,  three  tablespoons  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  two  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  Mix  together  excepting  vanilla 
and  butter.  Cook  slowly  until  it  forms  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Beat  until 
creamy.  Pour  on  buttered  plates  and  cut  into  squares. 

MRS.  HENRY  DUNCAN. 


O.  Kortell  G.  T.  Gundersen 


K.&G.  SHOE  STORE 


SHOES   FOR   THE 


Best   Grade   of    Men's    Logger 


First  Class  Shoe  Repair  Dept. 

425   Fifth;   Bet.   E  and  F. 

Phone  953       411   5th  St.       Eureka 


Telephone  679  Notary  Public 


A.  J.  Johnson 


WHOLE  FAMILY 

Fruit  and  Stock  Ranches 


A  Specialty 


Eureka  -  -  Calif. 


59 


CANDY  MAKING 

(Continued) 


Puffed  Rice  Brittle 

Boil  together  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  water  and 
one  teaspoon  of  vinegar  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  two  tablespoons  of 
molasses,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one-half  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil 
until  a  few  drops  in  water  becomes  brittle.  Take  from  fire  and  stir  in  one- 
half  a  package  of  puffed  rice  previously  crisped  in  the  oven.  Spread  on  dish 
to  cool.  MRS.  GEORGE  CLONEY. 


\ 


\  '  1  (Luu^n/ 


Hints  to  Housekeepers 


To  keep  bread  or  cake  moist,  place  a  piece  of  apple  in  the  box  with  it. 
Try  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  to  your  cream  before  whipping. 

To  cook  vegetables  quickly,  add  a  pinch  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  to  the 
boiling  water. 

A  small  spoonful  of  cornstarch  will  greatly  improve  the  flavor  texture 
of  your  fudge. 

A  teaspoon  of  vinegar  added  to  your  cake  icing  will  prevent  it  from  be- 
coming too  sugary. 

To  prevent  roasting  meat  from  scorching,  place  a  dish  of  water  in  the 
oven. 

To  .remove  the  odor  of  fish  or  onions  from  the  frying  pan,  put  in  vine- 
gar, heat  to  the  boiling  point,  then  wash  out.. 

To  avoide  lumps  in  your  gravy,  mix  your  salt  and  flour  before  wetting. 
Try  the  juice  of  a  lemon  in  a  pan  of  water  for  freshening  vegetables. 
To  keep  dumplings  light,  prick  open  when  first  taken  from  the  kettle. 

To  keep  raisins  from  going  to  the  bottom  of  your  cake,  roll  in  butter 
before  stirring  into  the  batter. 

For  light  fruit  pies,  put  the  sugar  in  when  the  pie  tin  is  half  full.  Your 
pastry  will  not  be  so  heavy. 

Dip  an  onion  for  a  moment  in  boiling  water,  begin  at  the  root  and  peel 
upward.    You  can  peel  and  slice  in  this  way  without  weeping. 

A  few  slices  of  raw  potato  put  into  soup  that  is  too  salty  and  boiled  for  a 
few  minutes  will  freshen  the  soup  and  make  it  palatable. 

Drop  a  cup  of  English  walnuts  (whole)  into  the  kettle  while  cooking 
cabbage  or  cauliflower.  This  will  take  away  the  unpleasant  odor.  A  pan  of 
vinegar  on  the  back  of  the  stove  will  have  the  same  effect 

To  tell  mushrooms,  spirinkle  a  little  salt  on  the  gills.  If  this  turns  the 
gills  black  they  are  fit  for  food.  If  yellow  they  are  poisonous. 

To  remove  marks  caused  by  hot  dishes  on  the  table,  make  a  thin  paste 
of  salad  oil  and  salt,  spread  on  the  table  where  the  mark  is,  leave  for  an  hour 
or  so,  then  rub  off. 

To  remove  ink  spots  from  a  varnished  surface,  use  equal  parts  of  vine- 
gar and  linseed  oil,  well  mixed,  and  apply  with  a  soft  cloth. 


THE 
BUSY 


Will  N.  Speegle 


PHONE  55 


Jenta  Vulcanizing  Works 


A.  C.  JENKS,  Prop. 
CORNER  SdandFSts. 

Fisk,  Goodrich  Tires  and  Tubes 

EVERYTHING    FOR   'MEN 

Retreading,   Vulcanizing,   Tire   and 

Tube    Repairing.       All  Work 
Guaranteed 

28   Fifth   Street  Eureka,   Calif. 


61 


EQUIVALENTS  OF  CAPACITY 

(All  Measures  Level) 

Three  teaspoons  One  tablespoon 

One-half  fluid  ounce  One  tablespoon 

Sixteen   full   tablespoons One    cupful 

Two   Gills One   cupful 

One-half  pint  liquid  One   cupful 

Eight  fluid  ounces  One   cupful 

One   liquid    pint   Two  cupfuls 

Sixteen    fluid    ounces    Two  cupfuls 

Liquid  Measure 

Four  fluid  ounces  One  gill 

Four  gills  One   pint 

Two  pints  One  quart 

Four  quarts  One   gallon 

Thirty-one  and  one-half  gallons _ One  barrel 

Two  barrels  .-. One  hogshead 

Dry  Measure  (Fruits  and  Vegetables) 

Two  pints  One  quart 

Eight  quarts  One  peck 

Four  pecks  One  bushel 

Ojie  hundred-five  quarts  One  barrel 

One  cup  granulated  sugar  One-half  pound 

One  cup  butter    One-half   pound 

One  cup  lard  Olie-half  pound 

One  cup  flour    One-fourth    pound 

One  cup  rice    One-half    pound 

One  cup  cornmeal   Five   ounces 

One  cup  raisins  (stemmed)  Six  ounces 

One  cup  currants   (cleaned)   ; Six   ounces 

One  cup  breadcrumbs    (stale)    Two    ounces 

One  cup  chopped  meat   (packed)   One-half  pound 

Ten  average  eggs  One  pound 


62 


Our  Jlag 


