Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arciiive 

in  2007  witii  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


littp://www.arcliive.org/details/cookingforprofitOObradrich 


Cooking  for  PROFili 


CATERING  AND  FOOD  SERVICE 
MANAGEMENT 

BY 

ALICE  BRADLEY 

PRINCIPAL   OF   MISS   FARMER'S    SCHOOL   OF    COOKERY,   BOSTON;    CULINARY 

EDITOR    "woman's    HOME    COMPANION";    AUTHOR    OF    THE 

CANDY   COOK  BOOK;    COMPANY  COOKING; 

ECONOMICAL    MENUS,    ETC. 


A  CORRESPONDENCE  COURSE 

ON  PROFESSIONAL  COOKING — THE  PREPARATION  AND  MARKETIN(?  OF  HOME- 
COOKED    food;    on    catering    for    receptions,    PARTIES,    DINNERS, 
BANQUETS,  SCHOOLS,  CAMPS  ;  ON  THE  MANAGEMENT  OF 
TEA    ROOMS,    CAFETERIAS,    LUNCH    ROOMS, 
BOARDING    HOUSES,    FAMILY    HOTELS 
AND    INSTITUTIONS. 


CHICAGO 

AMERICAN  SCHOOL  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 

1922 


'67 


Copyright  1921,  1922 

BY 

Home   Economics   AssoaAxioN 


CONTENTS 

PART  PAGE 

I.     Cooking  as  a  Profession        ....  3 

11.     Specialty  Cooking 17 

III.  Cooking  for  the  Food  Shop        •       •       •  39 

IV.  Cakes  and  Cake  Making 55 

V.     Candy  Making 75 

VI.     Catering  for  Social  Occasions       ...  97 
VII.     Catering  for  Special  Luncheons  and 

Suppers           131 

VIII.     Catering  for  Dinner  Parties  .       .       .       .157 

IX.     Guest  House  Management          .       .       .  177 
X.     School,  Industrial  and  Community  Food 

Service        ....        '.'^  .       .       .  205 

XI.    Tea  Room  Management        ....  225 

XII.     Cafeteria  and  Lunchroom  Management, 

BY  Marion  E.  Hopkins,  Field  Secretary 

for  Cafeterias,  National  Y.  W.  C.  A.     .  257 

Index           279 


491J01 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
I 


H 
< 

u 
u 
< 

w 

CO 

< 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  I 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION 

COOKING  is  essentially  woman's  profession.  From 
the  dawn  of  history  she  has  prepared  the  food  for 
the  family.  Good  cooking  is  a  fine  art.  It  is  as  well 
the  most  useful  of  the  arts.  Of  the  old  time  arts,  it  alone 
remains  for  the  most  part  in  the  home.  The  final  prepara- 
tion of  food  to  eat  only  has  not  been  nearly  completely  com- 
mercialized and  made  a  factory  industry.  The  demand  for 
home-cooked  food  still  remains  well  nigh  universal. 

If  you  are  about  to  choose  a  useful  profession,  if  you  are 
suddenly  thrown  on  your  own  resources  and  need  to  earn 
money,  then,  provided  you  have  a  love  for  cooking  and  some 
proficiency  in  it,  a  wide  field  of  service  is  open  to  you.  People 
must  eat  to  live.  Everyone  likes  good  things  to  eat  and 
many  are  able  and  willing  to  pay  liberally  for  well  cooked 
food.  Good  cooking  is  the  first  essential  to  success  in  .all 
lines  of  food  service.  Many  a  woman  today  enjoys  a  good 
income  because  she  was  in  the  first  place  a  good  cook. 

Profitable  Openings  for  an  Expert  Cook 

The  following  are  some  of  the  avenues  open  to  the  woman 
who  can  cook  some  particular  things  particularly  well : 

1.  Regularly  cook  special  dishes  to  fill  private  orders. 

a.  At  your  own  home. 

b.  In  the  home  of  your  patrons. 

2.  Sell  cooked  food  on  a  commission  to 

Woman's  Exchange 

3 


.•4,^,.'-^     •,   :.   '       COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Grocery  store 
Department  store 
Soda  fountain 
For  a  lunch  room  in  a 
School 

Business  block 
Factory- 
Breads,  cakes,  salad  dressings,  sandwiches,  jellies,  jams 
and  marmalades  are  the  commonest  things  sold  in  these  ways. 

3.  Prepare  and  pack  lunches  to  be  sold  at 

Railway  stations 
On  automobile  routes 
At  pleasure  resorts 
In  office  buildings 
In  schools 

4.  Cater  for 

Children's  parties 

Company  lunches  and  dinners  in  private  homes 

Card  parties  and  receptions,  preparing  and  serving  all 
or  part  of  the  refreshments 

Prepare  regular  dinners,  to  be  sent  in  special  contain- 
ers, to  private  homes 

5.  Open  a  Cooked  Food  Shop 

Candy  kitchen 

Community  kitchen 

Delicatessen  shop 

Tea  room 

Lunch  room  for  women 

Lunch  room  for  business  men 

Cafeteria 

6.  Become  the  manager  of  the  kitchen  in  a 

Summer  camp 

Institution 

Hotel 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION  5 

Qub  House 

7.  Conduct  a  guest  house,  summer  camp,  or  small  hotel. 

The  place  where  you  live  will  in  some  instances  determine 
the  line  of  work  to  be  taken  up.  Many  women  cannot  leave 
their  homes  but  can,  in  their  own  kitchens,  follow  one  of  the 
above  avenues  and  build  up  a  successful  business.  If  you 
must  seek  a  new  location  you  should  choose  it  with  due  regard 
for  the  thing  you  plan  to  do  and  the  kind  of  patronage  de- 
sired. You  can  do  different  things  if  you  are  on  an  auto- 
mobile road  in  the  country  than  you  can  do  in  a  crowded  sec- 
tion of  the  city. 

Qualifications  Essential  for  Success 

Do  not  undertake  to  earn  money  by  cooking  unless  you 
have  certain  qualifications,  many  of  which  can  be  developed 
even  though  they  are  not  very  apparent  in  the  beginning. 
Training  for  the  work  either  in  the  home  or  in  an  accredited 

school. 
Experience — A  person  with  training  only  and  no  experience 

cannot  expect  to  make  a  great  success  until  she  has  had 

experience. 
Confidence  in  yourself,  your  business,  and  your  ability  to 

succeed ;  self-reliance. 
High  standards — Your  work  should  be  considered  as  a  fine 

art  to  be  developed  and  improved. 
Honesty — Do  the  things  as  you  advertise  to  do  them. 
Ideals — Willingness  to  work  steadily  and  diligently  until  the 

ideal  is  reached.    Striving  toward  high  ideals  makes  work 

more  interesting  as  well  as  more  remunerative. 
Love  for  the  work,  belief  in  it,  enthusiasm  for  it. 
Far-sightedness  in  starting  and  developing  the  business. 
Progressiveness — not  willing  to  stay  -always  in  one  place 

unless  to  improve  or  enlarge  it,  but  ambitious  to  go  ahead 

in  your  particular  line  or  to  undertake  something  larger. 


6  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Executive  ability — The  power  to  do  things  yourself  and  to 
get  others  to  do  things  for  you. 

Intelligence  in  purchasing  and  adapting  equipment  and  sup- 
plies. 

Ability  to  use  time,  energy  and  materials  to  the  best  ad- 
vantage, wasting  nothing,  making  the  best  use  of  every- 
thing; practice  thrift. 

Ability  to  handle  money  wisely — Spend  it  for  things  that 
are  necessary  to  the  business  with  no  wasting  of  funds; 
be  prompt  in  paying  your  bills  and  meeting  obligations 
expect  no  favors,  be  careful  to  collect  what  is  due  you. 

Ability  to  keep  simple  accounts  and  correctly  add  and  sub- 
tract, multiply  and  divide  . 

Good  judgment  in  deciding  all  of  the  many  questions  that 
come  up ;  the  determination  to  ''never  get  left." 

Adaptability  to  conditions,  including  the  condition  of  having 
poor  or  insufficient  help,  of  not  having  the  supplies  on  hand 
that  were  expected,  of  not  having  the  utensils  that  are 
required. 

Tact  in  meeting  people,  shown  in  saying  and  doing  the 
proper  thing,  especially  avoiding  what  will  offend  or  dis- 
turb. 

Skill  in  dealing  with  men  or  emergencies;  ability  to  talk  or 
write   to   people,   including   business   people,   women   of 
leisure,  people  who  are  not  normal,  people  with  plenty  of 
money,  people  with  little  money. 
Sympathy   and   consideration   for   employees,    for  trades 

people  and  for  patrons.    It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  be  able 

to  put  yourself  in  other  people's  places.    Run  your  business 

on  the  Golden  Rule — ''Do  unto  others  as  you  would  have 

them  do  unto  you,"  or  "Love  your  neighbor  as  yourself." 

It  need  not  be  more ;  it  should  not  be  less. 
Service  your  standard — service  to  the  people  with  whom 

you  are  working  and  for  whom  you  are  working.    You  are  a 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION  7 

servant — one  who  serves — no  matter  what  you  are  doing. 
Make  every  effort  to  please  and  satisfy  your  patrons ;  to  do 
things  as  they  wish  them  done. 

Concentration  on  the  thing  in  hand.  Do  not  allow  your- 
self to  be  turned  aside  to  something  else  when  you  are  sure 
of  what  your  are  doing. 

Pleasing  personality,  necessary  if  you  are  to  come  in  con- 
tact with  your  patrons. 

Neatness  and  cleanliness — in  appearance  always  suitably 
dressed  and  well-groomed. 

.  Good  health  with  a  determination  to  maintain  it.  In  order 
to  do  this  you  should  have  a  hobby  outside  of  your  business. 
The  person  who  has  a  hobby  and  rides  it  seldom  "goes  to 
smash"  physically.  Do  not  overwork ;  it  does  not  pay  in  the 
long  run. 

Belief  in  the  axiom  ''Trifles  make  perfection,  and  perfec- 
tion is  no  trifle f'  Perfection  of  flavor  and  texture ;  attractive 
serving,  garnishing  and  decorating;  absolute  uniformity; 
scrupulous  cleanliness. 

These  are  among  the  trifles  that  make  or  mar  one's  reputa- 
tion and  product.     The  best  food  will  always  sell  the  best. 

If  you  haven't  all  these  characteristics,  associate  with  you 
someone  who  has  them.  All  of  these  qualifications  are  not 
necessary  in  every  avenue  that  is  open  to  the  woman  who  can 
cook,  but  cultivation  of  those  that  are  not  natural  tendencies 
will  result  in  increased  business. 

It  is  true  that  these  qualifications,  with  a  determination  to 
succeed,  will  bring  success  in  almost  any  line  of  work,  but 
they  are  specially  needed  in  the  management  of  a  business 
of  your  own. 


8  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Perfecting  A  Specialty 

If  you  have  the  ability  to  cook  some  special  thing  particu- 
larly well,  look  around  and  see  if  there  is  a  possibility  of 
marketing  it. 

You  may  be  able  to  use  foodstuff  grown  in  your  own 
garden  or  orchard  or  farm,  or  in  your  immediate  vicinity. 

You  may  have  a  formula  that  has  been  handed  down  in 
your  family  or  worked  out  from  much  experimenting  that 
you  can  develop  as  your  specialty.  Is  it  a  thing  that  appeals 
to  the  needs  or  desires  of  the  people  in  your  neighborhood, 
or  your  town,  of  your  city?  Perhaps  your  jellies,  marma- 
lade and  preserves  are  already  famous.  Instead  of  preserves 
it  may  be  mincemeat,  or  a  particular  kind  of  cake  (one 
woman  I  know  of  makes  a  splendid  living  with  only  a 
delicious  chocolate  cake  as  her  specialty),  or  a  cake  with  a 
very  nice  frosting  or  filling  or  attractive  and  unusual  decora- 
tions; it  may  be  candy,  or  bread,  or  sandwiches,  or  dough- 
nuts that  you  make  so  well  that  a  market  for  it  can  be  built 
up.  Many  such  specialties  will  be  suggested,  but  make  a 
beginning  the  easiest  way. 

Characteristics  of  Food  to  be  Sold 

In  order  that  you  may  sell  any  kind  of  food  at  a  price  suf- 
ficiently high  to  make  a  profit  it  must  be 

Something  that  people  want,  made  especially  well. 

Superior  to  that  sold  in  the  ordinary  shop. 

Made  of  choice  materials. 

Made  exactly  from  a  definite  formula  so  that  results  will 

always  be  the  same. 
Kept  up  to  a  high  standard. 

Labeled  truthfully  as  to  quality,  weight,  kind  of  product. 
Prepared  systematically  and  efficiently. 
Always  ready  at  the  time  agreed  upon. 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION  9 

A  specialty — Make  only  one  or  two  things  at  first ;  "special- 
ize" and  again  "specialize." 

How  TO  Market  Your  Specialty 

First  prepare  a  sample  of  the  dish  in  which  you  plan  to 
specialize.  Place  it  in  the  kind  of  a  container  you  plan  to 
use — jelly  glass,  or  fruit  jar,  or  paper  carton,  or  box — ^label 
it,  wrap  and  tie  it  as  it  should  be. 

Show  it  and  offer  to  prepare  it  for  families  in  your  im- 
mediate neighborhood,  using  your  materials  or  theirs,  or 
buying  it  in  the  market,  or  better  still,  from  a  farmer  near  by. 
You  can  charge  for  this  so  much  a  jar,  or  so  much  an  hour  or 
a  day,  plus  the  cost  of  all  materials  used — jars,  rubbers,  fuel, 
etc. 

Talk  your  plans  over  with  your  friends  and  tell  them  what 
you  propose  to  do,  and  let  them  ask  their  friends  to  give  you 
orders. 

Take  your  sample  to  a  private  boarding  or  day  school  and 
ask  if  there  is  a  chance  there  for  your  specialty  to  be  put  on 
sale.  Some  people  make  sandwiches,  cakes  or  candy  for 
sale  at  schools  where  the  children  cannot  go  home  to  lunch. 

Take  your  samples  to  a  shop  or  factory  where  it  can  be 
sold  at  noontime. 

Take  samples  to  the  largest  grocers  or  soda  fountain  shops 
in  your  town  or  in  a  neighboring  city.  Ask  them  to  exhibit 
and  take  orders  for  you,  or  rent  you  space  where  you  can 
offer  it  for  sale. 

If  there  is  a  woman's  exchange  show  them  what  you  can 
do  and  talk  over  with  the  manager  the  possibility  of  a  market 
there  for  your  wares,  or  ask  them  to  suggest  something  that 
you  could  make. 

Place  a  sign  in  front  of  your  house  if  you  are  on  an  auto- 
mobile road.  State  what  you  have  to  sell.  Show  samples  on 
a  neat,  attractive  stand  under  a  large  shade  tree  if  convenient. 


10  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

AHvertise  in  the  local  or  city  papers. 

Send  announcement  cards  to  people  whom  you  think  would 
be  most  interested  in  the  kind  of  thing  you  propose  to  make. 

Send  business-like  typewritten  letters  to  stores,  restaurants, 
hotels,  boarding  houses  and  private  families  whom  you 
haven't  time  or  opportunity  to  call  upon. 

Cooperate  with  other  people  in  your  neigborhood  who 
have  products  to  sell  similar  to  yours,  and  either  hire  a  room 
and  sell  direct  to  automobile  tourists  or  solicit  patronage 
from  some  large  firm  in  a  neighboring  city. 

Establishing  a  Reputation 

If  your  specialty  is  delicious  and  superior  to  or  different 
from  others,  and  of  uniform  quality,  there  will  be  purchasers 
who  will  tell  others  who  will  buy,  and  they  in  turn  will  tell 
others,  and  before  long  your  reputation  will  be  established 
and  a  market  will  have  developed  for  your  output. 

One  person  will  write  to  another  about  it,  and  you  will 
have  orders  from  other  places  if  your  goods  can  be  shipped. 
If  you  keep  up  your  high  standard  you  will  be  asked  to  make 
other  similar  things  and  then  different  things.  Do  not  try 
to  do  too  many  different  kinds  of  things.  It  is  a  mistake  to 
let  your  business  grow  so  large  that  you  cannot  continue  to 
give  your  personal  touch  and  oversight  to  everything  that 
goes  out  from  your  home  and  later  on,  perhaps,  from  your 
factory.  Attention  to  every  detail,  even  though  the  work 
must  be  done  by  others,  can  give  a  home  touch  to  even  a 
large  business. 

Percentage  of  Profit 

Before  you  have  decided  definitely  on  the  thing  in  which 
you  wish  to  specialize  you  should  know  its  cost  and  its  usual 
selling  price.  The  difference  between  the  cost  and  the  price 
which  you  get  for  it  will  be  your  profit  and  should  be  suf- 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION  11 

ficient  to  pay  you  well  for  your  time  and  labor.  Usually  the 
wholesale  selling  price  must  be  about  double  the  cost  of  raw 
materials. 

How  TO  Figure  Cost 

Many  women  in  figuring  the  cost  of  an  article  think  only 
of  the  materials  of  which  it  is  made.  In  addition  to  that  they 
should  consider  the  cost  of  conducting  the  business,  (the 
overhead  and  operating  expense),  as  well  as  the  containers, 
wrappings,  string,  etc. 

The  overhead  includes  rent  of  zvorkroom.  If  you  own  the 
house  or  building,  the  interest,  repairs,  taxes  and  insurance 
for  a  year  should  be  estimated.  If  you  propose  to  use  only 
one  room  in  an  eight-room  house,  only  one-eighth  of  the 
rent  need  be  charged  as  overhead.  If  two  rooms  in  a  five- 
room  apartment  will  be  used,  two-fifths  of  the  rent  will  be 
your  share. 

It  includes  interest  and  depreciation  on  the  equipment. 
Equipment  includes  stove,  tables,  sink,  utensils,  etc.,  used 
chiefly  in  your  business.  Make  a  list  of  them  with  their 
value.  Figure  interest  on  the  amount  of  money  you  could 
get  if  your  equipment  were  sold  and  the  money  were  placed 
in  the  bank.  Add  to  this  figure  one-fi£th  (20%)  of  the  value 
you  have  put  upon  it  as  depreciation,  or  for  a  sinking  fund 
with  which  to  replace  equipment.  This  should  be  counted  as 
part  of  the  overhead  expense.  Even  though  that  equipment 
has  been  in  use  for  years,  you  should  consider  what  it  is 
worth  now  and  what  it  would  cost  to  replace  it. 

The  cost  of  coal,  gas,  electricity,  gasoline  or  other  fuel 
which  you  will  use  in  your  cooking  must  be  included;  also 

Lights,  if  you  have  to  work  after  dark. 

Water,  if  it  is  taxed. 

Ice,  if  used  in  keeping  your  supplies  in  good  condition. 

Telephone;  you  can  do  little  business  without  one. 


12  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Advertising,  if  you  plan  to  advertise  in  any  way,  including 
stationery,  and  postage  if  you  send  out  announcements. 

Estimate  the  cost  of  help,  including  any  assistance  you  plan 
to  have  in  cooking,  packing,  delivering,  soliciting  business, 
etc.  If  perchance  a  member  of  your  own  family  is  your 
assistant,  figure  that  at  a  definite  amount,  probably  at  what  it 
would  cost  you  to  get  the  work  done  by  someone  from  out- 
side. 

Total  up  estimated  expenses  for  one  year,  divide  by  12  or 
by  the  number  of  months  you  plan  to  work  each  year.  This 
will  give  you  the  overhead  and  operating  cost  for  one  month. 

Divide  by  the  number  of  working  days  in  a  month  to  learn 
the  cost  of  doing  business  each  day. 

Next  estimate  the  amount  of  food  that  you  could  prepare 
in  an  ordinary  working  day  of  eight  or  nine  hours.  How 
many  jars  or  loaves  can  you  make?  What  will  be  the  cost 
of  the  raw  material,  that  cost  being  based  on  wholesale 
prices?  What  will  be  the  cost  of  containers,  labels,  string, 
etc.?    What  will  be  the  cost  of  commissions f 

Add  these  sums  together,  then  add  the  overhead  for  one 
day.  This  will  show  you  the  total  cost  per  day  of  what  you 
propose  to  cook. 

Now  put  down  what  you  expect  to  receive  for  the  finished 
product  per  jar  or  per  loaf.  Then  estimate  the  selling  price 
of  all  that  you  could  prepare  in  a  day.  Is  this  more  or  less 
than  the  total  cost  of  the  product  as  estimated  above?  If 
more,  subtract  the  day's  cost  from  the  expected  receipts. 
Is  the  difference  (this  is  the  profit)  enough  to  pay  you  for  the 
time  and  labor  you  will  spend  in  preparing  and  selling  it? 

The  amount  of  profit  you  should  receive  should  be  not  less 
than  the  wages  or  salary  you  would  receive  for  doing  the 
same  amount  or  kind  of  work  in  another  home  or  factory, 
or  other  place  of  business.    Thirty  to  forty  cents  an  hour  is 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION  13 

the  wage,  paid  in  1921  to  houseworkers  sent  out  from  a  first- 
class  office. 

If  there  seems  to  be  not  enough  profit  in  it  after  paying 
these  expenses,  think  of  some  other  product  you  might  make. 
Do  not  cook  all  day  without  the  probability  of  a  reasonable 
profit. 

Every  bit  of  the  food  material  and  other  supplies  should 
be  utilized.  The  cost  is  based  not  alone  on  what  goes  into 
the  product,  but  on  what  is  wasted  as  well.  Be  careful  that 
nothing  is  wasted. 

You  may  make  "pin  money"  and  gain  experience  without 
reckoning  your  overhead  expense,  but  you  cannot  call  it 
"Cooking  for  Profit." 

Necessary  Equipment 

Before  going  very  far  in  the  production  in  your  own 
kitchen  of  some  special  foodstuff,  you  want  to  look  around 
your  kitchen  and  think  of  it  as  a  workshop  where  you  can 
do  a  maximum  amount  of  work  with  a  minimum  amount  of 
time  and  strength.  See  if  there  are  any  ways  in  which  the 
equipment  in  your  workshop  can  be  improved.  Are  the 
tables  and  sinks  of  the  right  height?  Is  the  equipment  that 
best  adapted  for  the  kind  of  work  you  propose  to  do  ?  Think 
of  any  kind  of  a  shop  in  which  a  man  works,  how  he  has  his 
tools  arranged  so  he  can  get  at  them  most  easily,  and  plan 
your  workshop  so  that  you  will  save  the  greatest  number  of 
steps. 

There  are  some  things  that  can  be  changed  for  a  small 
am.ount  of  money  and  will  mean  the  saving  of  time  and  much 
more  money  to  you.  If  you  are  going  to  do  your  best  work 
it  is  absolutely  essential  that  you  plan  your  workshop.  Most 
efficient  arrangements  are  described  in  Household  Engineer- 
ing, by  Christine  Frederick.* 


♦Published  by  American  School  of  Home  Economics. 


14  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Note  the  lines  of  travel  and  be  sure  the  ingredients  that 
you  are  going  to  use  are  grouped  together  close  to  the  utensils 
that  you  are  going  to  use ;  that  these  are  close  to  the  stove  and 
that  there  is  a  shelf  or  table  near  the  stove  to  which  they  can 
be  removed  from  the  stove  and  finished,  wrapped  or  boxed, 
etc.  Make  your  shop  a  model  for  convenience  in  order  that 
you  may  get  the  greatest  possible  amount  of  work  done. 

The  equipment  will  depend  on  the  product  which  you 
decide  to  make.  You  will  need  a  range;  use  gas  if  it  is 
available, — because  it  is  easily  regulated  and  saves  much  time. 
If  electric  current  is  very  cheap  it  may  be  practical  to  adopt 
that.  At  any  rate  use  gas  or  electricity  if  you  can,  depend- 
ing on  which  is  the  cheapest  or  most  available.  Coal  or  wood 
require  more  time  and  effort  and  results  are  not  so  regular. 
Vapor  gasoline  stoves  are  very  successful  if  you  cannot  get 
gas.  Gasoline  is  better  than  kerosene  for  professional  cook- 
ing. 

The  water  supply  is  important.  There  should  be  hot  run- 
ning water  as  well  as  cold  to  make  your  work  easier,  and 
the  sink  should  be  at  the  right  height  to  save  the  strain  on  the 
back;  i.  e.,  bottom  of  sink,  30  to  33  inches  from  the  floor. 

The  work  table  should  be  of  some  material  that  does  not 
need  to  be  scrubbed.  Marble,  or  porce-namel,  or  heavy  glass 
are  very  good. 

The  utensils  should  be  of  the  best  possible  materials  so  that 
they  will  last,  aluminum  or  agate,  depending  on  the  amount 
of  work  you  are  going  to  do.  For  some  things  tin  is  better. 
Copper  or  heavy  steel  are  necessary  for  some  kinds  of  cook- 
ing, as  will  be  explained.  Have  assorted  sizes  that  you  may 
be  able  to  prepare  large  or  small  amounts  of  food.  Standard- 
ize your  equipment  in  kind  and  number  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble, and  have  as  much  as  you  need  but  no  more,  so  that  a 
minimum  amount  of  time  and  energy  will  be  used  in  caring 


COOKING  AS  A  PROFESSION 


15 


r^wwvw^ 


S 


^ 


o  en 


o:  o 
o  m 


^\\VV\VV\\V^^V^v\V^^^^ 


TABLE 


FOR 
FINISHED 


PRODUCTS 


DISH  CLOSET 
OR  SHELVES 


1 


^ 


a 

?  CQ 

< 


^^^^^^ 


A  WELL  PLANNED  WORKSHOP 
(Adapted  from  Miss   Bradley's   Kitchen) 

for  them.  Proper  care  should  be  taken  of  utensils  that  they 
may  last  as  long  a  time  as  possible;  the  wrong  kind  of  care 
will  make  short  the  life  of  the  best  utensil. 

An  electric  egg  beater,  chopper,  etc.,  may  be  purchased  as 
soon  as  your  business  warrants  it,  as  well  as  a  meat  and  bread 
sheer. 

Inlaid  linoleums  make  about  the  best  floor  covering  if  well 
cemented  to  the  floor.  The  walls  should  be  easily  cleanable 
and  the  color  scheme  attractive — light  rather  than  dark. 
Plenty  of  light  and  cross  ventilation  are  very  necessary.  A 
ventilating  hood  over  the  stove  is  particularly  desirable. 


16  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Do  not  be  afraid  to  start  in  your  own  home  in  a  small  way, 
nor  be  discouraged  if  you  do  not  make  a  lot  of  money  at  first. 
If  you  make  a  good  product  and  are  determined  to  succeed 
you  mill  succeed. 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
I 

Cooking  as  a  Profession 

1.  Which  of  the  many  lines  of  food  service  suggested  have 

you  thought  of  taking  up?    Tell  of  your  education, 
experience,  conditions,  purpose  in  taking  this  course. 

2.  What  special  qualifications  do  you  feel  that  you  possess 

for  the  proposed  work  ?  Do  you  think  you  can  develop 
those  which  you  may  lack? 

3.  What  do  you  consider  the  special  thing  that  you  can  cook 

particularly  well?     What  is  your  recipe? 

4.  Figure  as  well  as  you  can  the  overhead  cost  of  doing 

business  per  month  and  per  day,  where  you  are  now 
located,  or  in  a  home  kitchen.    Give  all. 

5.  How  much  spare  time  can  you  give  to  cooking  for 

profit  ? 

6.  What  volume  of  business  in  quantity  of  product  and 

amount  of  sales  must  yau  do  to  give  a  fair  profit  on 
the  time  you  can  spend  ? 

7.  What  sales  plans  can  you  think  of   to  market  your 

product  ? 

8.  Draw  a  plan  of  your  own  kitchen   (or  a  kitchen  you 

would  like  to  have) .    Draw  in  the  things  you  might 
cook  for  profit. 

9.  What  new  equipment  would  you  need?     What  would 

such  additional  equipment  cost? 

10.  What  question  have  you  to  ask  on  this  lesson? 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
II 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  II 


T 


SPECIALTY  COOKING 

CANNED  FOODS  ;   STANDARDIZING  RECIPES  J   METHOD  OF  CAN- 
NING;    KINDS    OF   preserves;    CONSERVE,    JELLIES;    PICKLES 

AND  relishes;   salad  dressings;  BREAD,  rolls;  coffee 

CAKE   AND  brioche;    BRAN   MUFFINS;    SANDWICHES;    COLD 

meats;  how  to  buy. 

HE  cooked  product  upon  which  you  decide  to  special- 
ize should  find  a  market  if  it  is : 


1.  Something  that  you  can  make  unusually  well. 

2.  Something  unusual  that  nobody  else  makes. 

3.  Something  that  is  not  put  out  by  the  large  manufac- 

turers, as  you  probably  cannot  compete  in  price. 

4.  Something  that  people  will  be  eager  to  buy. 

5.  Something  that  you  raise  in  your  garden  or  on  your 

farm. 

6.  Something  that  can  be  kept  without  deterioration  and 

can  be  easily  used  by  the  purchaser. 

Following  are  lists  of  some  foods  in  which  others  have 
specialized  with  retail  prices  charged  at  high  class  stores  or 
food  shops  at  the  present  time. 

CANNED   FOODS 
In   Glass 

Fruits — $1.25  to  $1.40  a  quart  jar,  40c,  65c,  70c  a  pint  jar. 
Vegetables — $1.00  a  quart  jar,  60c,  70c,  75c  a  pint  jar. 
Meats — $1.30  a  large  jar,  40c  a  small  jar. 
Chafiing  Dish  Mixtures  (in  tins)  25c  to  45c. 
Grape  Juice — 75c  a  quart,  40c  a  pint,  15c  a  4  ounce  bottle. 
Jellies — 50c  a  9  oz.  jar,  35c  6  oz.  jar,  30c  2  oz.  jar. 
Marmalades — 45c  a  9  oz.  jar,  30c  6  oz.  jar,  25c  2  oz.  jar. 

17 


18  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Preserves — 85c  to  $1.00  a  pint. 

Jams — 85c  a  small  crock,  60c  a  half  pint. 

Conserves  and  Spiced  Fruit,  50c  a  half  pint. 

Pickles  and  Relishes — 80c  to  $1.00  a  quart,  45c  to  55c  a  pint. 

Salad  Dressings — Mayonnaise  90c  to  $2.00  a  quart,  50c  to  6oc  a 

pint,  35c  a  half  pint. 
Tartare  Sauce — 60c  a  pint. 
Russian  Dressing — 75c  a  pint. 

BREAD,  ETC. 

Bread — 17c  a  i   pound  loaf. 
Boston  Brown  Bread — 8c  a  small  loaf. 
Assorted  Rolls — 24c  to  40c  a  dozen. 
Sandwiches — 96c  to  $1.20  a  dozen. 

Miscellaneous 

Boston  Baked  Beans — 60c  a  quart,  35c  a  pint. 

To  Order 

Beef  Tea  up  to  $2.50  a  quart. 

Broths  for  Invalids  up  to  $2.50  a  quart. 

Cream  Soups  for  Invalids  up  to  $2.50  a  quart. 

The  cost  of  selling  is  25%  to  40%  of  the  retail  price, 
therefore  if  you  put  your  product  in  a  shop  you  will  get 
less  than  these  prices.  If  possible  sell  direct  to  private  trade 
and  get  all  the  profit  yourself. 

One  woman  who  is  putting  up  28,000  jars  of  canned  fruits, 
vegetables  and  jellies  in  a  season  charges  $5.85  a  dozen  pints 
and  delivers  direct  to  housewives.  She  takes  orders  and  gets 
her  empty  jars  in  the  spring. 

Standardizing  Recipes 

As  soon  as  possible  standardize  your  recipe,  file  all  data 
on  cards,  and  purchase  or  improvise  a  box  to  hold  the  cards 
as  they  accumulate. 

Amounts,  cost,  et  cetera,  may  be  on  one  side ;  the  method 
of  preparation  may  be  on  the  other  side  of  the  card,  with 
other  notes.  Other  cards  may  have  the  addresses  of  firms 
from  whom  supplies  are  purchased,  the  names  and  addresses 
and  other  data  regarding  your  customers,  the  amounts  of 
food  prepared  at  different  times,  et  cetera. 


SPECIALTY  COOKING 


19 


SAMPLE  CARD 

Recipe                                   GRAPEFRUIT  MARMALADE                 Date 

Material 

Amount 

Weight 

Unit 
Cost 

Total 
Cost 

Overhead 
Charges 

Other 
Charges 

SeUing 
Price 

Profit 

Grapefruit 

Orange 

Lemon 

Sugar 

Water 

Jars 

Paper 

Alcohol 

Labels 

1 
1 

1 

m  qts. 

3  qts. 

4  sheets 
8 

lib. 
6oz. 
4oz. 
3  1b. 
6  1b. 
6oz. 

3  grams 

$1.00  doz. 
.60  doz. 
.35  doz. 
.101b. 

7.00  gross 
4.50  per  M 

.lOoz. 
5.00  per  M 

$0,084 
.05 
.03 
.30 

.388 
.018 
.01 
.04 

8  glasses 

SO.llJ^Ea. 

$0.92 

1 

Cards  may  be  purchased  in  lots  of  lOO  or  more.  A  4x6 
inch  card  is  a  good  size. 

Cost  of  the  8  glasses  of  marmalade  $0.92.  You  can  add 
overhead  charges,  say  2  hours  at  20c  per  hour,  (40  cents)  ; 
your  labor,  say  2  hours  at  40c  (80  cents),  and  sell  the  8 
glasses  for  $2.12  (27  cents  a  glass),  or,  if  you  double  the 
cost  of  materials,  as  is  quite  often  done,  you  will  sell  for 
$1.84  and  will  have  92  cents  or  20  cents  per  hour  for  over- 
head and  26  cents  per  hour  for  your  time. 

If  you  sell  at  retail,  charging  35  cents  a  glass  or  $2.80  for 
8  glasses  you  will  have  a  margin  of  $1.88  or  20  cents  per 
hour  for  overhead,  and  74  cents  per  hour  for  your  time, 
but  you  will  have  to  pay  for  box,  paper  and  string,  and 
maybe  delivery  charges. 


REVERSE   SIDE  OF  THE  CARD 


Directions:  Cut  fruit  in  quarters  and  slice  very,  very 
thin,  rejecting  only  seeds  of  the  fruit  and  the  core  of  the 
grapefruit.  Add  water  and  let  stand  in  an  earthen  dish  over 
night.  Next  morning  boil  until  tender  and  again  let  stand 
over  night.  Boil  10  minutes,  add  sugar  and  boil,  stirring 
occasionally  that  it  may  not  burn,  to  220  degrees  Fahrenheit. 
Pour  into  sterile  glasses,  let  stand,  covered  with  cheesecloth 
until  firm.     Cover  glasses  and  label. 


:20  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Buying  supplies  in  larger  quantities  at  lower  rates,  slicing 
fruit  with  a  machine  instead  of  by  hand,  and  otherwise 
lessening  the  time  consumed,  putting  the  product  into  larger 
or  smaller  jars,  would  decrease  the  cost  and  thus  increase 
the  profit. 

Hotels  and  Pullman  dining  cars  are  good  customers  for 
individual  jars  of  marmalade. 

CANNING 

Fruits  may  be  canned  by  the  cold  pack  or  the  open  kettle 
method.  Strive  for  appearance,  flavor  and  just  the  right 
degree  of  tenderness. 

The  cold  pack  method  is  the  best  to  use  for  vegetables. 
They  must  be  canned  within  a  few  hours  of  the  time  they 
are  picked.  Be  sure  to  use  new  rubbers  of  a  make  that 
will  withstand  the  processing.  For  full  directions  send  to 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C,  for 
Bulletins  839  and  853,  also  for  Bulletins  telling  about 
"Canning  Clubs,"  and  to  your  State  College  for  all  bulletins 
they  have  issued  on  canning  and  preserving. 

Interstate  Sales 

Send  to  your  State  House  and  to  the  United  States 
Bureau  of  Chemistry,  Washington,  D.  C,  for  information 
regarding  the  requirements  of  canned  goods  that  are  to  be 
sold  that  you  may  not  unknowingly  do  anything  that  will 
prevent  the  sale  of  your  goods  from  one  state  to  another. 
Briefly,  the  label  must  tell  the  truth  and  give  the  net  weight 
in  the  container. 

Read  everything  you  see  that  can  help  you  in  your  work. 
There  are  several  excellent  books  recently  published,  which 
are  listed  at  the  end  of  this  lesson. 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  21 

Kinds  of  Preserves 

In  preserves  the  shape  of  the  fruit  should  be  retained. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  follow  the  old  rule — a  pound  of  sugar 
to  a  pound  of  fruit;  many  people  prefer  them  made  with 
^  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  In  jams  the  fruit 
is  mashed  and  the  same  proportion  of  sugar  used  as  in 
preserves. 

Spiced  fruits  are  preserves  seasoned  with  spices  and 
vinegar. 

Conserves  are  preserves  to  which  orange  juice  and  rind, 
lemon  juice,  raisins  and  nuts  are  added,  although  nuts  may 
be  omitted. 

Recipe  for  Conserve 

An  acid  fruit  is  ordinarily  used  for  a  conserve  and  a  formula 
something  like  this : 

4  to  5  pounds  fruit, — rhubarb,  plums,  cranberries,  peaches,  etc. 

1  to  2  pounds  raisins,  stoned  and  put  through  food  chopper  or 
seedless  raisins  left  whole. 

2  to  3  oranges  thinly  sliced  as  for  marmalade. 
I  lemon  thinly  sliced,  if  needed  for  flavor. 

5  pounds  sugar. 

I  pound  nut  meats. 

Water  if  the  fruit  is  not  sufficiently  juicy. 

Cook  fruit  until  tender,  add  sugar  and  cook  until  it  jellies; 
add  nuts  just  before  pouring  into  glasses. 

Many  kinds  of  preserved  fruits  can  be  prepared  with 
rhubarb  used  up  to  50%  of  the  total  fruit,  to  reduce  the 
cost  and  the  selling  price. 

The  greatest  demand  is  for  standard  preserves  and  canned 
goods.    You  might  specialize  in  old  fashioned  family  recipes. 

Always  use  the  same  kind  of  jar  and  glass  and  cover. 

Labeling 

Have  attractive  printed  labels  after  your  business  becomes 
established  and,  if  you  like,  adopt  a  trade  name.  Labels 
are  cheaper  in  lots  oi  2}^  thousand  than  in  thousand  lots. 


22  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Try  to  attend  exhibitions  of  canned  fruit  and  vegetables 
and  to  exhibit  your  own  products,  as  you  will  learn  by  obser- 
vation and  comparison  to  tell  good  canned  products  when 
you  see  them.  When  starting  out  to  sell  your  products,  it 
will  give  you  confidence  if  you  know  that  you  have  an  article 
that  is  extra  fine. 

Packing  for  Market 
When  packing  glass  jars  for  market,  the  corrugated  card- 
board boxes,  in  which  the  new  jars  come,  will  be  found 
to  be  the  best  containers.  The  jars  should  be  wrapped  in 
paper  and  then  placed  in  the  sections  of  the  box.  If  this 
box  is  then  packed  in  a  wooden  box,  there  will  be  little 
danger  of  breakage. 

Canning  in  Other  People's  Homes 
Many  people  have  large  gardens  and  will  gladly  pay 
wages  of  three,  four  or  five  dollars  a  day  to  someone  who 
will  go  to  their  homes  and  can  fruits  and  vegetables  and 
make  their  preserves,  jellies  and  pickles.  Assistance  will 
be  provided  when  necessary.  The  money  is  all  clear  profit. 
A  small  advertisement  in  the  paper  should  bring  all  the 
customers  one  could  assist. 

JELLIES 

Jellies  and  marmalades  are  stiffened  by  the  pectin  which 
is  present  in  certain  fruits,  particularly  when  they  are  not 
quite  ripe.  The  pectin  must  be  cooked  out  of  the  fruit,  but 
it  is  weakened  or  partly  destroyed  by  too  long  boiling.  Jelly 
results  from  boiling  the  pectin  containing  juices  with  the 
proper  proportion  of  sugar,  provided  acid  is  present.  Com- 
mercial pectin  may  be  added  to  any  kind  of  fruit  juice  and 
with  sugar  very  quickly  makes  a  firm  jelly. 

After  preparing  the  fruit,  it  is  cooked  gently  till  tender  in 
its  own  juices  or  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  i  to  3  cups 


Q 
W 

< 
> 

I— I 

H 
U 

H 
I— I 

P^ 
to 

Q 

to 

H 
c/) 

W 
P 
< 

o 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  23 

per  pound,  then  allowed  to  drip  through  double  cheese  cloth 
or  through  a  flannel  bag.  The  clear  juice  is  next  measured, 
boiled  lo  minutes  or  longer  according  to  the  density  of  the 
juice,  and  combined  with  the  proper  proportion  of  sugar, 
after  which  it  is  boiled  again  to  the  jelly  point  and  poured 
into  sterilized  jelly  glasses,  cooled  quickly  and  sealed. 

The  amount  of  pectin  present  can  be  judged  by  adding 
a  spoonful  of  alcohol  to  an  equal  quantity  of  cooled  fruit 
juice.  The  pectin  is  not  soluble  in  this  mixture  and  forms 
a  more  or  less  dense  mass.  The  less  pectin  present,  the  less 
sugar  should  be  used.  Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar 
to  one  cup  of  juice  should  make  a  clear  sparkling  jelly  of 
the  right  consistency  and  flavor.  Use  a  thermometer  in  mak- 
ing your  jellies  and,  after  adding  the  sugar,  boil  to  220  to 
221  degrees  Fahrenheit  for  a  firm  jelly. 

By  covering  the  fruit  pulp  with  a  little  water  and  heating 
after  the  first  draining,  a  second  and  sometimes  a  third 
extraction  can  be  made  which  doubles  the  amount  of  jelly 
secured  from  a  given  amount  of  fruit,  without  lessening  the 
quality  of  the  jelly.  It  is  best  to  combine  the  second  and 
third  extractions  and  boil  down  until  the  pectin  test  shows 
the  correct  proportion  of  pectin  present  to  make  a  jelly  uni- 
form with  the  first  lot. 

In  making  jellies,  jams  and  marmalades,  it  is  best  to  cook 
only  small  quantities  at  a  time.  Enough  juice  for  twelve 
half  pint  glasses  of  jelly  is  a  sufficient  amount  for  each  kettle. 
Use  a  broad  bottom  kettle  filled  not  more  than  one-third  full 
and  work  quickly  for  best  results.  By  planning  the  work, 
at  least  100  glasses  of  jelly  can  be  made  in  a  day. 

Fruit  juice  for  jellies  may  be  canned  in  glass  jars  during 
the  fruit  season,  and  made  up  into  jelly  with  the  sugar, 
later  on,  to  fill  your  orders. 

The  cost  of  materials,  if  all  must  be  purchased,  should 
not  be  more  than  one- third  of  the  retail  selling  price  or  two- 


24  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

fifths  to  one-half  the  wholesale  price.  Unless  you  are  near 
the  source  of  supply  and  can  obtain  fruits  at  low  prices, 
your  costs  may  be  too  high  to  sell  standard  goods  at  a  fair 
profit. 

The  most  popular  jellies  are  currant,  grape,  apple,  apple 
and  mint,  and  quince.  Some  combinations  of  fruit  are 
especially  good  as: 

Currant  and  raspberry, 
Quince,  apple  and  cranberry, 
Apple  and  grape, 
Apple  and  rhubarb. 

Filling  Jelly  Glasses 

When  filling  the  glasses  pour  the  jelly  first  into  a  teapot 
or  pitcher  and  then  into  the  hot  glasses  which  should  be 
standing  in  a  pan  so  that  no  jelly  will  be  lost  in  case  a 
glass  breaks. 

When  jelly  is  cold  and  firm,  fasten  a  swab  of  cotton  on 
a  skewer,  dip  in  pure  alcohol  and  wipe  over  the  top  of  the 
jelly,  to  destroy  any  germs  that  might  cause  fermentation. 

Cut  glazed  paper  to  fit  inside  the  glass,  dip  in  alcohol, 
and  lay  on  top  of  the  jelly.  Cover  each  glass  with  a  larger 
piece  of  glazed  paper  with  edges  clipped  and  paste  firmly 
to  outside  of  glass. 

Paraffin  may  be  used  for  sealing  but  is  less  attractive,  and 
may  not  prevent  fermentation  around  the  edges,  and  it  costs 
more.  If  the  jelly  is  to  be  shipped  some  distance  it  may  be 
necessary  to  supply  metal  covers. 

Special  Containers  for  Jellies 

Jellies  may  be  put  up  in  unusual  sized  glasses  or  jars. 
Boxes  or  baskets  holding  6  2-oz.  glasses  of  jelly,  each  a 
different  color  and  flavor,  are  very  popular  as  gifts. 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  25 

Standardization 

Quality  and  appearance  are  of  the  greatest  importance. 
For  this  the  raw  materials  must  be  in  perfect  condition. 
Satisfy  your  customer  at  whatever  cost  to  yourself. 

Standardize  your  product — 

Know  how  many  glasses  or  jars  of  a  jelly  or  a  marmalade 
or  other  product  you  should  get  from  a  known  weight  of 
fruit  and  of  sugar. 

Make  every  effort  to  secure  the  same  results  each  time  you 
make  a  batch;  the  difference  of  one  glass  will  make  much 
difference  in  your  profit. 

Weigh  a  glass  that  is  filled  to  the  right  height  and  be 
sure  that  every  other  glass  offered  for  sale  contains  exactly 
the  same  amount  and  exactly  the  same  quality  of  product. 

PICKLES  AND  RELISHES 

There  are  many  delicious  home  made  pickles  and  relishes 
that  are  seldom  found  in  the  retail  stores.  If  your  garden 
produces  a  surplus  of  small  cucumbers  or  tomatoes  and 
you  can  make  your  own  cider  vinegar,  your  specialty  may 
be  right  there. 

The  following  pickle  is  easily  prepared  and  very  satis- 
factory. 

Saco  Pickle 

Sell  for  $2.00  a  dozen  in  5J^  ounce  jars. 
Wash   and   wipe   small   fresh   green   cucumbers,    pack   in 
glass  jars  and  pour  over  them  the  following  mixture. 

Sift  together 
I  cup  sugar. 
I  cup  salt. 

%  cup  mustard.  Add  slowly  while  stirring  constantly 
I  quart  vinegar.    When  smooth  add 
3  quarts  vinegar.    Have  the  liquid  fill  jars  to  overflowing 

and  cover  closely. 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 

A  few  years  ago  it  was  considered  necessary  to  use  pure 
olive  oil  in  mayonnaise  and   French   dressings,  but  there 


26  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

are  several  other  vegetable  oils,  including  cottonseed,  peanut 
and  corn  oils,  now  found  to  be  perfectly  satisfactory.  Do 
not,  however,  charge  olive  oil  prices  for  a  dressing  made 
of  a  cheaper  oil.  Salad  oil  may  be  purchased  in  five  gallon 
tins  for  much  less  than  retail  prices. 

One  Gallon  of  Mayonnaise 

3  tablespoons  salt. 

3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  mustard. 

^2  teaspoon  cayenne.     Mix  well,  add 
i^  dozen  egg  yolks,  beat  until  light,  add 
i}i  cups  vinegar.     Add  very  slowly 

3^2  quarts  salad  oil.    As  it  thickens,  add,  a  little  at  a  time, . 
I  cup  lemon  juice.    Add 
I  cup  boiling  water,  if  desired. 

This  quantity  makes  about  g  pints.     The  cost  today  is  about  33 
cents  a  pint,  and  it  sells  for  60  cents  a  pint. 

You  may  find  some  sale  for  Sauce  Tartare  or  Russian 
Dressing  made  with  a  basis  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Sauce  Tartare 

To  one  quart  mayonnaise  dressing  add  3  tablespoons  each  capers, 
pickles,  olives,  parsley,  shallot  or  onion,  all  finely  chopped  and  % 
cup  tarragon  vinegar. 

Russian  Dressing 

To  one  quart  mayonnaise  dressing  add  slowly 

1  cup  chili  sauce. 

%  cup  pimientos  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Ys  cup  tarragon  vinegar. 

2  tablespoons  chives  cut  in  tiny  pieces. 

4  teaspoons  table  sauce,  Worcestershire  or  Escoffier. 

An  electric  mixer,  although  expensive,  is  a  great  help  in 
beating  mayonnaise  where  large  quantities  are  to  be  made. 


BREADS 

There  is  not  much  profit  on  plain  bread  unless  made  in 
very  large  quantities  as  is  done  in  the  large  bake  shops  and 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  27 

factories.  However,  orders  may  be  secured  for  breads  that 
are  delicious  and  unusual  for  use  in  sandwiches  for  after- 
noon tea  and  other  parties. 

Yeast  breads  of  different  kinds  can  be  developed  from 
a  standard  formula. 

Foundation  Recipe  for  Bread 

Put 
25^  teaspoons  salt 
2  tablespoons  sugar  and 
2  tablespoons  shortening  in  mixing  bowl ;  add 

2  cups  scalded  liquid,  water,  or  milk  and  water,  or  all  milk;  when 

the  shortening  is  melted  and  the  liquid  is  lukewarm  add 
Yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
%  cup  lukewarm  water.     If  mixed  over  night  use  ^  yeast  cake; 

if  mixed  in  the  morning  use  i  whole  yeast  cake.    Add 

3  cups  flour,  beat  until  smooth,  add 

2  cups  flour,  ■  stir  with  a  knife  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  add 
about 

I  cup  flour  slowly,  using  just  enough  to  make  dough  of  such 
consistency  that  it  may  be  kneaded  without  sticking  to  the 
board  or  cloth.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Let  rise 
until  double  in  bulk,  knead  again,  shape  in  two  loaves,  let 
rise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  50  minutes. 

Orange  Bread 

Dissolve 
I  yeast  cake  in 
^  cup  lukewarm  water;  add 
I  egg,  well  beaten, 
I  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
I  tablespoon  melted  lard, 

1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
Grated  rind  2  oranges 
^  cup  orange  juice  and 

3  cups  flour.     Beat  until  smooth,  adding  more  flour  if  necessary; 

knead  until  smooth  and  elastic;  let  rise  until  double  its  bulk; 
shape  in  double  loaf ;  put  in  bread  pan ;  let  rise  again  to 
double  its  bulk;  and  bake  i  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Whole  Wheat  or  Graham  Bread 

Add 
3  tablespoons  molasses  and 
I  tablespoon  shortening 
I  teaspoon  salt  to 

I  cup  scalded  milk;  cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add 
I  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 


28  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Ys  cup  lukewarm  water 

ij^  cups  bread  flour  and 

ij^  cups  graham  or  whole  wheat  flour;  beat  well,  cover,  and  let 

rise  to  double  its  bulk.    Again  beat,  and  turn  into  greased 

bread  pans,  having  pans  one-half   full;   let  rise  and  bake. 

Whole  wheat  bread  should  not  quite  double  its  bulk  during 

last  rising. 

Orange  Peel  Bread 

To  graham  bread  add  before  rising. 

l4  cup  candied  orange  peel  cut  in  small  pieces. 

}i  cup  nut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces. 

When  risen  cut  down  with  case  knife,  fill  small  greased  baking 
powder  boxes  Ya  full,  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven.  This  is  delicious  made  into  sandwiches  with 
a  filling  of  creamed  butter  and  orange  marmalade. 

Prune  Bread 

Soak 
}4  cup  prunes  in 
I  cup  cold  water  over  night.     Cook  in  same  water  until  soft  and 

remove  stones.    To  prune  juice  add 
Boiling  water  to  make  i  cup,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour 

over 
^2  cup  rolled  oats.    Let  stand  until  water  is  absorbed,  add 
j4  cup  sugar 
5^  tablespoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  shortening 
%  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

%  cup  lukewarm  water  and  the  prunes.    Then  add 
2^  cups  flour,  mix  thoroughly,  let  rise,  add 

}i  cup  walnut  meats  cut  in  pieces ;  turn  into  greased  bread  pan  or 
round  greased  baking  powder  boxes,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

Cornmeal  Bread 

Mix 
14  cup  cornmeal 
1/2  cup  molasses 

2  tablespoons  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt  and 

2  cups  boiling  water.    When  lukewarm  break  in 

I  yeast  cake  and  let  stand  until  yeast  comes  to  the  top.    Add 
Flour  to  knead,  let  rise,  shape,  put  in  pans,  let  rise  and  bake. 


Oatmeal  Bread 


Mix 
I  cup  rolled  oats 
y^  cup  com  meal 
ij^  teaspoons  salt  and 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  29 

1  tablespoon  shortening,  add 

2  cups  boiling  water  and  let  stand  i  hour.    Add 
J^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

%  cup  lukewarm  water 
%.  cup  molasses 

3  cups  flour  and 

I  cup  rye  flour.  Mix  well,  cover,  and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk; 
beat  well,  turn  into  two  greased  pans,  let  rise,  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  50  minutes. 

A  bread  that  has  been  popular  for  many  years  at  a  large 
Woman's  Exchange  we  call 

Winchester  Nut  Bread 

Pour 
^  cup  cold  water  over 

y2  cup  brown  sugar;  as  soon  as  lumps  in  sugar  are  dissolved  add 
J4  cup  molasses  and 
^  cup  milk.    Sift  together 

1  cup  bread  flour 
lYz  teaspoons  salt 

2j/^  teaspoons  baking  powder 
^  teaspoon  soda  and  add 

2  cups  Graham  flour  unsifted.     Combine  mixtures,  and  add 

%  cup  walnut  meats  cut  in  rather  large  pieces.  Bake  in  a  greased 
bread  pan  from  i>^  to  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

Raisin  Bread 

Make  Winchester  nut  bread  omitting  the  nuts,  or  make 
plain  white  bread,  and  add  ^  cup  seedless  raisins. 

Bran  Bread 

Sift  together 

2  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  sugar  and 
5^  teaspoon  salt.     Add 

2  cups  bran  and  rub  in 

I  tablespoon  shortening  with  tips  of  fingers.    Beat 
I  egg  yolk,  add 

I  cup  milk,  combine  mixtures,  add 

5^  cup  seedless  raisins,  and  mix  well.  Bake  in  greased  bread  pan 
in  moderate  oven  for  i  hour. 

Rolls 

If  you  decide  to  specialize  in  rolls,  purchase  as  many  kinds 
as  are  for  sale  in  the  community  where  you  plan  to  sell  yours. 


30  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Experiment  with  the  following  formula  and  shapes  until 
you  achieve  if  possible  something  that  is  superior  to  any 
roll  that  you  are  able  to  purchase. 

Make  your  price,  as  suggested  in  Lesson  I.  It  will  doubt- 
less be  higher  than  the  price  asked  for  other  rolls  that  are 
for  sale,  but  there  should  be  people  glad  to  pay  what  they 
are  worth. 

Biscuits  and  Rolls 
(A  good  foundation  recipe) 

1  cup  milk  scalded  and  cooled.    Add 

2  to  4  tablespoons  butter  substitute 
2  to  4  tablespoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

^  to  I   yeast   cake   dissolved   in  2  tablespoons   lukewarm   water. 

Use  %  yeast  cake  if  to  rise  overnight,  i  yeast  cake  if  mixed 

in  the  morning. 
i^  cups  flour.    Mix  well,  let  rise  and  add  flour  to  knead  (about 

ij^  cups).     Knead,  let  rise  again,  shape  and  bake  in  hot 

oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

Experiment  with  different  shortenings  and  use  the  cheap- 
est shortening  that  will  give  you  good  results.  Use  as 
much  more  as  you  wish  up  to  8  tablespoons,  which  will  give 
a  very  rich  roll. 

Variations 

2  tablespoons  sugar  give  a  good  flavor.  More  may  be  used  up 
to  I  cup  which  makes  a  sweet  bun. 

I  or  more  ^gg  yolks,  or  from  i  to  3  whole  eggs  may  be  added 
with  excellent  results. 

I  Qgg  white  beaten  stiff  gives  a  deliciously  crisp  crust. 

All  these  suggestions  add  to  the  expense  of  the  rolls  and 
should  not  be  used  unless  patrons  are  willing  to  pay  the 
price. 

Flavor  for  Rolls 

Attractive  flavorings  which  add  a  distinctive  touch. 

Grated  rind  one  lemon,  or 
Yz  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  or 

I  teaspoon  vanilla,  or 

54  to  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  or 

5^  cup  seedless  raisins 

Add  the  flavorings  after  the  sponge  is  light. 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  31 

Shaping  of  Rolls 

There  are  many  different  shapes — one,  two  or  three  balls 
baked  in  muffin  pans,  finger  rolls,  knots,  four  inches  long 
with  pointed  ends  and  cuts  across  the  top.  Parker  House 
and  cinnamon  rolls  are  the  most  popular. 

The  unbaked  rolls  may  be  brushed  over  with  melted  butter, 
milk  and  sugar  or  beaten  egg  to  soften  the  crust  or  to  make 
a  glaze,  just  before  they  are  put  into  the  oven  or  just  before 
they  are  done. 

Coffee  rolls  are  spread  with  thin  confectioner's  frosting 
after  baking.  They  may  be  made  from  Brioche,  a  rich  yeast 
mixture,  or  from  the  recipe  given  above  with  two  eggs  added. 

The  following  rules  for  Brioche  or  Coffee  Cake  are  taken 
from  the  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 

Coffee  Cake  I  (Brioche) 

Scald 

1  cup  milk;  cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add 

2  yeast  cakes ;  when  dissolved  add 
4  ^SS  yolks 

3  eggs 

^  cup  butter 

j4  cup  sugar 

}4  teaspoon  lemon  extract  or  2  pounded  cardamon  seeds  and 

4^  cups  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  with  the  hand  for  lo  minutes  and 
let  rise  for  6  hours.  Keep  in  ice  box  over  night ;  in  morning 
turn  on  floured  board,  roll  in  long  rectangular  piece  ^  inch 
thick;  spread  with 

Softened  butter,  fold  from  sides  toward  center  to  make  3  layers. 
Cut  off  pieces  ^  inch  wide;  cover  and  let  rise.  Take  each 
piece  separately  in  hands  and  twist  from  ends  in  opposite 
directions,  coil  and  bring  ends  together  at  top  of  cake.  Let 
rise  in  pans  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven; 
cool  and  brush  over  with 

Confectioners'  sugar  moistened  with 

Boiling  water  to  spread  and  flavored  with 

Vanilla. 

Coffee  Cakes  II 

Scald 
I  cup  milk,  add 
%  cup  sugar  and 
I  teaspoon  salt;  when  lukewarm  add 


32  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

%  cup  lukewarm  water  and 

lYz  cups  flour.     Cover  and  let  rise,  then  add 

%  cup  melted  butter 

2  eggs  well  beaten 

Few  gratings  from  rind  of  lemon  and 

2^  cups  flour.    Let  rise  again  and  finish  like  Coffee  Cakes  I. 

Mixing  and  Weighing  the  Dough 
Bread  and  rolls  may  be  mixed  by  hand,  in  an  ordinary 
bread  mixer,  or  in  an  electric  mixer. 

Loaves  of  bread  and  individual  rolls  should  be  weighed 
before  the  dough  is  shaped. 

Standardize  the  weight  and  size.  It  must  not  vary  from 
day  to  day. 

Other  Good  Sellers 

Hot  Boston  brown  bread  and  baked  beans  are  popular 
sellers  in  New  England  on  Saturday  evenings. 

Bran  muffins,  especially  with  raisins,  prunes  or  dates, 
are  purchased  as  a  laxative. 

Bran  Muffins 

Sift  together 
I  cup  flour 
I  teaspoon  soda  and 

1  teaspoon  salt.    Add 

2  cups  bran 

iJ4  cups  milk  and 

1/2  cup  molasses.    Bake  in  individual  tins.     This  recipe  will  make 

one  dozen  muffins. 
^  cup  raisins,  dates  or  soaked  prunes,  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces 

may  be  added. 

SANDWICHES 

There  is  a  market  for  sandwiches  if  they  are  supplied 
regularly  to  people  who  work  in  large  office  buildings, 
factories  or  schools  near  your  home.  A  neat  basket  filled 
with  sandwiches,  each  one  freshly  made  and  wrapped  in  wax 
paper,  is  very  quickly  emptied.  In  addition  to  the  sand- 
wiches you  may  include  half  pint  bottles  of  milk,  homemade 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  33 

cookies,  cakes,  turnovers  and  candy  if  you  have  time  to 
make  them.  You  might  each  day  supply  cooked  food,  sand- 
wiches, cakes,  pies  and  doughnuts,  to  soda  fountains  where 
luncheonettes  are  served.  Orders  can  be  taken  for  sandwiches 
for  afternoon  teas  and  receptions. 

Use  for  sandwiches  what  is  known  as  a  sandwich  loaf,  a 
loaf  of  bread  square  at  each  end  and  about  13  inches  long. 

Purchase  a  bread  slicer  to  secure  ease  and  uniformity  in 
the  slicing  of  bread. 

Learn  the  number  of  sandwiches  you  should  get  from: 

I  loaf  of  bread 

I  pound  of  butter  or  oleomargarine 

I  pound  of  cheese 

I  ham,  best  part  sliced,  poorer  pieces  chopped 

I  roast  of  beef — the  face  of  the  rump  will  do  very  nicely 

I  fowl 

I  head  lettuce 

I  dozen  eggs 

Use  plenty  of  butter  on  your  bread,  especially  on  the 
corners.     Use  plenty  of  filling  in  your  sandwiches. 

Moisten  chopped  mixtures  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Use  a  leaf  of  lettuce  and  plenty  of  salad  dressing  with 
your  chicken  and  egg  sandwiches. 

Occasionally  add  a  new  sandwich  to  the  list  of  old  reliable 
ones. 

Know  the  cost,  including  butter,  wax  paper  and  seasonings, 
of  each  sandwich  you  make  and  fix  your  selling  price  accord- 
ingly. One  slice  bread,  doubled  and  filled,  may  sell  for  ten 
cents. 

Computing  the  Cost  of  Cooked  Meat 

Learn  the  difference  in  weight  between  a  piece  of  meat 
raw  and  the  same  piece  cooked,  the  amount  of  salable 
cooked  edible  meat  that  can  be  obtained  from  a  given  weight 


34  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

and  cut  of  raw  meat,  and  estimate  the  value  per  pound  of 
the  cooked  meat,  exclusive  of  the  overhead  and  labor  costs. 
You  will  be  amazed  at  the  shrinkage.  Tabulate  your  results 
on  a  card,  and  be  careful  not  to  lose  money  if  you  are  asked 
to  sell  cooked  meat! 

Did  you  know,  for  example,  that  cooked  chicken  meat 
is  worth  $2.00  a  pound  when  chicken  sells  for  50c  a  pound  ? 

HOW  TO  BUY 

The  amount  you  pay  for  your  raw  material  will  make 
a  big  difference  in  the  profit  you  are  able  to  make.  As  soon 
as  you  find  your  business  is  actually  started,  food  stuffs  and 
wrappings  should  be  purchased  at  wholesale  prices.  The 
amount  you  buy  should  be  governed  by 

The  size  of  your  storage  space. 
The  amount  that  you  expect  to  sell. 
The  length  of  time  you  expect  it  to  take  to  use  up  that 
material. 

With  perishable  material,  order  only  as  much  as  you  can 
use  in  a  day. 

Sugar  should  be  bought  in  the  original  packages  (100 
pound  bags  or  in  barrels). 

Supplies  that  come  by  the  case  should  be  bought  by  the 
case. 

Butter  and  shortening  can  be  bought  in  tubs,  and  in  time 
of  plenty  and  cheap  prices  can  be  placed  in  storage  and 
then  taken  out  as  required. 

Eggs  should  be  bought  by  the  case,  and  it  may  be  possible 
to  buy  enough  for  the  entire  year  when  they  are  cheapest 
and  most  plentiful  and  keep  them  in  waterglass,  or  in 
storage.  Frozen  eggs  are  satisfactory  if  contents  of  con- 
tainer can  be  used  as  soon  as  opened. 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  35 

The  containers  that  you  propose  to  use  for  your  product 
should  be  purchased  in  large  quantities,  probably  after  your 
business  is  established,  in  sufficient  quantity  to  last  six  months 
or  a  year.  The  amount  purchased  at  first  should  depend  on 
the  amount  necessary  to  start  your  business.  If  you  are 
starting  in  a  small  way  you  will  not  buy  as  much  as  you 
will  later  on  when  you  have  become  known. 

Buy  as  many  supplies  as  you  can  direct  from  the  factory, 
in  case  lots,  so  that  you  will  have  everything  that  you  need 
when  you  need  it. 

The  Stock  Account 

There  should  be  a  check-up  system  for  supplies.  The 
stock  book  should  usually  be  balanced  daily.  Use  a  double 
page  for  each  food  stuff,  etc.,  which  you  purchase.  On  the 
left  side  of  the  book  record  all  the  stuffs  that  are  received, 
whether  paid  for  or  not.  The  page  may  be  ruled  into  six 
columns  headed  as  follows : 

PASTRY    FLOUR    RECEIVED 

Month,  Day,  Purchased  From,  Amount,  Unit  Cost,  Total  Cost. 

On  the  right  side  of  the  book  record  food  stuffs,  etc., 
that  are  used  and  go  out,  with  the  cost  and  with  the  value 
of  your  product,  so  that  you  can  check  up  every  day  and 
know  whether  the  amount  for  which  you  are  selling  your 
product  is  more  than  sufficient  to  pay  for  the  supplies  that 
you  are  using  each  day. 

If  preferred,  cards  may  be  used  for  the  stock  record,  one 
column  for  goods  received,  two  columns  for  goods  used. 

A  bill  should  come  with  the  goods  that  you  order  which 
can  be  O.  K.'d  when  they  are  received.  You  should  make 
a  strong  point  of  the  way  bills  come  in  and  are  checked  up 
so  you  will  pay  for  nothing  that  you  do  not  actually  receive. 
Mistakes  are  sometimes  made  by  the  most  reliable  concerns. 


36  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

In  the  front  of  the  book  you  may  figure  what  you  expect 
your  overhead  and  operating  expenses  are  going  to  be, 
leaving  room  to  figure  out  accurately  what  they  are.  Then 
right  at  hand  will  be  the  amount  per  day  that  must  be  taken 
in  to  cover  your  daily  overhead  and  operating  expenses. 
When  you  total  up  your  expenses  for  the  day  and  your 
income  for  the  day,  you  can  quickly  reckon  whether  you 
are  making  or  losing  money  on  each  day's  product. 

Keep  your  business  on  a  cash  basis  and  pay  bills  by  bank 
check. 

It  is  a  very  good  plan  to  deposit  all  receipts  in  the  bank 
and  make  all  expenditures  by  check.  This  method,  with 
the  use  of  a  Self-Accounting  Check  Book,*  will  give  you  a 
permanent,  classified  record  of  all  expenses  and  receipts. 

Inventory 

The  amount  of  material  on  hand  should  be  found  and 
entered  in  the  stock  book  each  month  before  the  orders  for 
the  next  month  are  given.  These  figures  will  be  known  if 
you  balance  daily. 

The  cost  of  suppHes  actually  used  can  then  be  figured  and 
the  total  expense,  receipts  and  profit  for  the  month  can  be 
accurately  determined. 

Repairs  and  Equipment 

Repairs  and  new  equipment  should  not  be  entered  with 
the  daily  food  stuffs,  but  should  appear  by  themselves.  They 
may  follow  the  inventory  of  the  equipment  with  which  you 
start. 

At  the  end  of  the  year  you  can  estimate  whether  the 


*  The  Office  or  Household  Accounting  Check  Record,  which  may 
he  used  with  the  checks  of  any  bank,  may  be  obtained  from  Ameri- 
can School  of  Home  Economics,  Chicago.     $i.oo  postpaid. 


SPECIALTY  COOKING  37 

amount  of  depreciation  as  figured  was  sufficient  to  cover 
the  cost  of  repairs  and  replacement.  Your  profit  should  be 
sufficiently  large  for  you  to  have  a  new  stove,  work  table, 
etc.,  if  you  should  need  them,  and  to  keep  your  equipment 
up-to-date. 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Note.  The  following  books  (and  many  others  listed  later)  will 
be  loaned  to  Members  of  the  School,  one  at  a  time.  Send  postage 
with  request — 8  to  20  cents,  according  to  distance  and  size  of  book. 
They  will  be  sent  to  anyone  on  receipt  of  price  and  postage. 

Successful  Canning  and  Preserving,  Ola  Powell,  $2.50. 
Canning,  Preserving  and  Jelly  Making,  Janet  M.  Hill,  $1.60. 
Every  Step  in  Canning,  Grace  Viall  Gray,  $1.25. 
Everywoman's  Canning  Book,  Mary  B.  Hughes,  $0.90. 

Bulletins 

For  the  free  Farmers'  Bulletins,  send  to  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, Washington,  D.  C.  The  Bulletins  on  which  a  price  is  given 
may  be  obtained  by  sending  currency  (not  stamps)  to  Superintendent 
of  Documents,  Washington,  D.  C.  For  College  Bulletins,  send  direct 
to  the  colleges  named. 

Home  Canning  of  Fruits  and  Vegetables,  Farmers'  Bulletin.    Free. 

Homemade  Fruit  Butters.     Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  900.    Free. 

Canned  Fruit,  Preserves  and  Jellies.  Maria  Parloa.  Farmers* 
Bulletin  No.  203.     5  cents. 

Canning  Vegetables  in  the  Home.  J.  F.  Breazeale.  Farmers*  Bul- 
letin No.  359.    5  cents. 

Canning  Peaches  on  the  Farm.  Gould  and  Fletcher.  Farmers*  Bul- 
letin No.  426.    5  cents. 

Manufacture  and  Use  of  Unfermented  Grape  Juice,  H.  Husmann, 
Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  644.    5  cents." 

Canning  Tomatoes  at  Home  and  In  Club  Work,  O.  H.  Benson, 
Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  521.     5  cents. 

The  Preservation  of  Food  in,  the  Home,  Stanley  and  McDonald, 
University  of  Missouri,  Columbia,  Missouri. 

Jellies,  Preserves  and  Marmalades.  Agnes  Ellen  Harris,  Florida 
State  College  for  Women,  Tallahassee,  Florida. 

Canned  Foods:  Fruits  and  Vegetables.  Florence  R.  Corbett, 
Teachers  College,  Columbia  University,  New  York  City. 

Principles  of  Jelly  Making.  N.  E.  Goldthwaite,  Cornell  University, 
Ithaca,  New  York. 

Preserving  Fish  for  Domestic  Use.  Bureau  of  Fisheries,  Dept.  of 
Commerce,  Washington,  D.   C. 


38  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
II 

Specialty  Cooking 

1.  Why  does  jelly  "jell"? 

2.  What    are  the    essential    factors    for    successful    jelly 

making  ? 

3.  What  are  the  advantages  of  canning  by  the  cold  pack 

method  ?  How  much  canning  have  you  done  by  this 
method  ? 

4.  Have  you  special  recipes  for  something  canned  that  you 

feel  might  be  marketed?  If  so,  what  is  the  recipe? 
How  might  this  product  be  marketed? 

5.  Make  an  investigation  of  the  quality  and  price  of  bread 

and  rolls  for  sale  in  your  neighborhood  and  report. 
Do  you  think  there  would  be  a  sale  for  a  better  prod- 
uct at  a  higher  price? 

6.  Would  it  be  possible  to  build  up  a  trade  in  sandwiches 

where  you  are  now  situated?  If  so,  what  varieties 
would  you  make? 

7.  Make  a  list  of  twelve  kinds  and  shapes  of  rolls  and 

biscuits. 

8.  Make  out  a  card  showing  weight  of  a  piece  of  meat. 

(a)  as  purchased  and  cost  per  pound. 

(b)  after  cooking  and  cost  per  pound. 

(c)  edible  or  salable  portion,  and  cost  per  pound. 

9.  Make  a  sketch  of  the  two  sides  of  a  page  of  a  stock  book. 
10.  What  bulletins  have  you  sent  for  on  canning,  etc?    Have 

you  any  questions  to  ask  on  this  lesson? 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
III 


> 

I— I 

H 
U 

< 

H 
H 
< 

W 

KM 

o 
o 
u 

o 

m 
W 

>^ 
H 

H 

w 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  III 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP 

THE  FOOD  shop;  DOUGHNUTS,  CRULLERS,  ECLAIRS,  COOKIES 
(plain  and  fancy)  ;  plain  pastry, — ^PIES  and  TURN- 
OVERS ;  PUFF  PASTE, — PATTY  SHELLS,  VOL  AU  VENT,  FRENCH 
PASTRY ;  QUANTITIES  THAT  PAY ;  CHANGING  SMALL  RECIPES 
TO  LARGE  ONES ;  THE  DELICATESSEN  SHOP. 

IN  most  cities  and  in  many  towns  there  is  a  food  shop 
to  which  consignors  may  take  their  products,  the  shop 
selling  the  food  on  a  commission,  or  buying  it  outright. 
If  there  is  no  food  shop  in  your  neighborhood  it  might  be 
profitable  for  you  to  open  one.  Perhaps  one  room  in  your 
home  can  easily  be  arranged  with  tables  or  counters  and 
shelves,  and  as  the  income  increases,  glass  show  cases  and 
other  equipment  can  be  added. 

Locating  a  Food  Shop 

A  food  shop  should  be  on  a  main  thoroughfare  or  good 
automobile  road,  where  there  is  constant  passing.  If  you 
rent  a  place  for  your  food  shop  try  to  have  it  on  the  side 
of  the  street  or  a  corner  where  people  pass  in  greatest 
numbers. 

Have  an  attractive  show  window  with  something  different 
each  day,  or  the  arrangement  changed,  so  that  there  will 
be  no  danger  of  people  thinking  that  the  same  food  has 
been  in  the  window  for  days  at  a  time.  Patrons  will  come 
in  because  the  window  appeals  to  them. 

39 


40  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

A  kitchen  shut  off  by  glass  partitions  only  from  the  food 
shop  is  very  effective.  For  such  a  kitchen  the  best  and  most 
attractive  equipment  would  be  required. 

To  have  patrons  come  again  and  again  the  food  should 
be  beyond  reproach  and  above  criticism. 

*        The  Interior  of  the  Shop 

The  shop  itself  should  be  attractive  with  the  attractive- 
ness that  comes  from 

The  use  of  broom,  dust  cloth,  soap  and  water. 

Simple  fresh  curtains  at  the  windows. 

Neat  and  polite  sales  girls. 

Tables  and  counters  thoroughly  scrubbed. 

Glass  and  china  clean  and  shining. 

Silverware  thoroughly  polished. 

An  attractive  arrangement  of  boxes,  paper  and 

twine. 
Quick,  efficient  and  agreeable  service. 

At  first  you  may  be  able  to  prepare  all  the  food  sold  and 
fill  the  orders  that  are  taken.  If  the  business  grows,  as  it 
should,  you  will  find  other  women  who  are  glad  to  send  in 
cooked  foods,  or  to  fill  orders  left  at  your  shop.  You  can 
charge  them  a  certain  per  cent  of  the  selling  price  of  the 
foods  they  send  in,  or  you  can  pay  them  a  stipulated  price 
and  sell  the  cake  or  other  food  at  a  profit  to  yourself,  prob- 
ably an  increase  of  20%  to  40%,  depending  on  your  over- 
head costs. 

Consignors 

The  selection  of  the  consignors  should  be  most  carefully 
made.  The  people  themselves  should  be  very  neat  and  clean 
in  person.  Regular  inspection  should  be  made  of  the  con- 
signor's kitchen  or  work  shop  that  you  may  know  if  her 
product  is  made  under  sanitary  conditions. 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  41 

Consignments 

Have  a  definite  time  when  products  must  be  brought  in. 

Be  critical  in  passing  upon  consignments, — do  not  accept 
anything  that  is  not  up  to  your  standard,  and  have  that  a 
high  one. 

Return  consigned  articles  that  are  not  absolutely  right. 

Wrappings 

Have  the  paper,  boxes,  twine  and  labels  standardized  for 
your  shop,  and  supply  them  to  the  consignors.  Order  these 
supplies  where  you  can  get  the  best  prices,  and  reorder  from 
the  same  firm  or  firms  if  their  goods  are  satisfactory. 

The  Proprietor's  Problem 

The  proprietor  of  a  cooked  food  shop  must  consider 
costs  from  a  different  angle  than  the  consignor.  You  will 
have  to  pay  for  what  you  get,  but  you  must  make  some 
arrangement  for  disposing  of  what  remains  unsold.  You 
may  be  able  to  use  it  in  a  tea  room  or  sell  it  to  your  em- 
ployees or  to  outsiders  for  the  cost  of  the  raw  material, 
or  serve  it  to  your  help. 

You  must  learn  as  soon  as  possible  to  judge  accurately  of 
the  amount  that  you  can  sell  each  day. 

Good  Sellers  for  a  Food  Shop 

In  addition  to  the  canned  foods,  breads,  etc.,  mentioned 
in  Lesson  H,  good  sellers  include  doughnuts,  cream  puffs, 
pies  and  turnovers  of  all  kinds,  puff  paste  patties,  and  of 
course,  all  varieties  of  cakes,  cookies  and  candies.  It  is 
wise  to  have  but  one  consignor  for  each  kind  of  food. 

The  Special  Dish 

In  your  food  shop  have  special  things  that  it  is  difficult 
to  get  anywhere  else.  Occasionally  have  something  different, 
and  as  your  business  grows,  find  new  consignors. 


42  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

DOUGHNUTS  AND  CRULLERS 

One  woman  earned  enough  from  the  sale  of  doughnuts 
to  support  herself  and  children  and  send  them  through  col- 
lege. In  some  parts  of  the  country  the  doughnut  is  called 
a  cruller  and  in  others  the  cruller  is  called  a  doughnut. 

This  is  the  recipe  for  our  newest  doughnut  and  the  one 
we  like  best  of  all. 


Best  Ever  Doughnuts 

Beat  slightly 
I  egg  and 

1  tgg  yolk,  adding  slowly 
^  cup  sugar,  then  add 

2  tablespoons  heavy  cream 
y%  cup  milk  and 

y2  teaspoon  lemon  extract.     Sift  together  four  times 
25^  cups  bread  flour 
y  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 

^  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Combine  mixtures.  Toss  on 
floured  cloth,  knead  slightly,  shape,  fry  in  deep 
hot  fat  and  drain  on  paper.  For  a  richer  dough- 
nut add 

2  teaspoons  melted  butter. 

If  this  doughnut  is  too  expensive,  use  a  cheaper  recipe; 
one  extra  tgg  yolk  is  a  valuable  addition  to  any  recipe.  The 
whites  can  be  used  in  frosting,  meringues  or  cake. 

A  plain  raised  doughnut  with  jelly  or  jam  inside  is  a  good 
seller. 

Doughnuts  sell  for  40c  to  $1.00  a  dozen. 
■  The  cost  of  doughnuts  should  be  figured  per  dozen,  not 
forgetting  to  include  in  the  cost  the  fat  absorbed  in  the 
frying. 

The  homemade  doughnut  is  one  for  which  people  are 
willing  to  pay  an  extra  price.  Where  large  quantities  of 
doughnuts  are  made  daily,  a  special  equipment  for  cutting 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  43 

the  doughnut,  putting  it  in  and  taking  it  out  of  the  fat 
is  used.  When  this  equipment  is  located  in  a  store  window, 
large  numbers  of  patrons  are  attracted  to  buy  coffee  and 
doughnuts  to  eat  on  the  spot,  or  to  purchase  doughnuts  to 
take  home. 


CREAM  CAKES  AND  ECLAIRS 

Choux  paste  is  the  name  given  to  the  mixture  from  which 
cream  cakes  and  eclairs  are  made.  It  is  unlike  any  other 
mixture  used  in  cooker}\  There  are  many  sizes  and  shapes 
in  which  choux  paste  may  be  formed  by  means  of  a  pastry 
bag  and  plain  tube.  It  can  be  made  into  regular  cream  puffs 
and  eclairs,  into  tiny  cream  puffs  one  inch  in  diameter  with 
colored  frosting  that  are  nice  for  afternoon  teas,  into  eclairs 
three  inches  long  filled  and  then  dipped  in  frosting  of  various 
colors.  The  tops  when  frosted  can  be  decorated  with  nuts 
or  with  tiny  candies.  The  filling  may  be  a  cooked  cream 
filling,  whipped  cream  or  fruit,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag 
and  plain  tube  into  the  cake.  They  should  not  look  or  taste 
like  the  variety  that  can  be  bought  in  the  ordinary  bake  shop. 
The  prices  charged  range  from  5  cents  to  10  cents  each. 


COOKIES 

You  can  have  a  standard  formula  for  cookies,  since  many 
cookies  can  be  made  from  approximately  the  same  rule. 
The  less  milk  used  the  better  and  richer  the  cookie.  Tie 
them  in  bundles  of  i  dozen  each,  with  coarse  thread,  each 
shape  by  itself.  Two  cookies  with  frosting  between  and  on 
top  are  attractive.  Many  mothers  will  buy  oatmeal  and  gin- 
ger cookies  for  their  children.  Thick,  rich  hermits  are  good 
sellers. 


44  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Cookies 

Work  until  creamy 

1  cup  butter  substitute,  and  add 

2  cups  sugar  gradually. 
4  eggs  well  beaten 

3  cups  flour,  sifted  with 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
I  teaspoon  salt  and 

I  teaspoon  nutmeg  if  desired.    Add 

4  tablespoons  milk  and 

3  cups  flour  and  flavoring. 

Put  in  ice  box  or  in  a  cool  place  until  thoroughly  chilled,  when 
mixture  should  be  quite  stiff.  Take  out  a  small  portion  at  a  time, 
on  a  floured  cloth,  roll  until  thin  as  paper,  shape  as  desired.  Place 
on  greased  tin  and  bake  8  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Fancy  Cookies 

1.  Sprinkle  mixture  generously  with  cocoanut  when 
partially  rolled  out,  finish  rolling. 

2.  Sprinkle  mixture  with  cinnamon  and  sugar  before 
cutting  out. 

3.  To  ^  the  mixture  add  i  cup  chopped  nut  meats,  roll 
thm,  shape,  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  bake. 

4.  Put  a  few  currants  in  the  center  of  each  cookie  before 
baking. 

5.  Put  I  teaspoon  caraway  seed  in  %.  the  mixture  before 
chilling. 

6.  To  34  mixture  add  i^  squares  melted  chocolate  be- 
fore chilling. 

7.  Use  maple  sugar  instead  of  plain  sugar  and  sprinkle 
cookies  with  maple  sugar  and  chopped  pecan  nut  meats. 

8.  Flavor  cookies  with  grated  orange  rind. 

9.  To  %.  mixture  add  i  cup  chopped  candied  ginger. 

10.  Shape  cookie  mixture  with  heart,  diamond,  club  and 
spade  cutters.  When  baked  spread  hearts  and  diamonds 
with  frosting  colored  red,  and  clubs  and  spades  with  melted 
sweet  chocolate. 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  45 

11.  Decorate  frosted  cookies  with  leaves  and  stem  of 
green  citron,  and  flowers  made  of  candied  caraway  seeds. 

12.  Cut  cookie  mixture  in  circles.  On  one-half  the 
pieces  put  i  teaspoon  of  raisin  or  conserve  filling,  cover 
with  another  cookie  and  press  together. 

PASTRY 

Pastries  of  all  kinds  are  very  good  for  consigning.  The 
pastry  for  pies  should  be  a  good  plain  paste,  not  a  puff 
paste,  except  for  the  upper  crust  of  mince  pies.  For  shorten- 
ing use  all  lard,  or  lard  and  butter,  or  substitute  for  either. 
The  formula  must  be  standardized  and  then  followed.  Be 
Sure  to  Measure  Accurately.  Standardize  by  weight  the 
amount  of  crust  that  is  used  for  the  lining  of  the  pie  plate 
and  for  the  upper  crust,  so  that  the  crust  will  always  be  of 
uniform  thickness.  When  baking  pies  have  a  hot  oven  at 
first  to  cook  under  crust  and  prevent  escape  of  juice. 

Quick  Plain  Paste 
Put 
I  cup  lard  in  a  chilled  bowl,  work  until  creamy,  using  a  wooden 

spoon.    Add 
Yz  cup  ice  water 
3  cups  pastry  flour  and 
I  teaspoon  salt  and  mix  by  cutting  with  a  knife. 

Bind  a  strip  of  wet  cheesecloth  around  juicy  pies  to  keep  juice 
from  coming  out. 

Selling  Price  of  Pies 

The  price  of  65c  for  an  apple  pie  and  70c  for  most  of 
the  others  is  the  ordinary  charge.  Mince  pie  is  more  ex- 
pensive and  may  have  a  puff  paste  upper  crust.  Individual 
pies  or  tartlets  can  be  easily  sold  in  some  localities. 

Apple,  mince,  raspberry,  pineapple,  lemon  and  banbury 
tarts  sell  for  from  72c  to  $1.08  a  dozen,  or  from  6c  to  9c  each. 
They  should  be  made  of  a  more  flaky  pastry  than  pies,  and 
may  be  made  of  puff  paste  if  desired.     They  should  be 


46  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Standardized  as  to  size  and  the  amount  of  filling  used  in 
each. 

Puff  Paste 

Puff  paste  patty  shells,  and  vol  au  vents,  which  are  large 
patties,  can  be  made  to  order.  Puff  paste  requires  experi- 
ence in  making,  dexterity  in  handling,  rapid  manipulation, 
ice  for  chilling  and  an  oven  that  can  be  easily  regulated. 

First  class  puff  paste  must  be  made  of  real  butter. 

Puff  Paste  Recipe 

2  cups  butter,  wash,  and  pat  and  shape  in  circular  shape. 
Reserve  two  tablespoons  and  put  remainder  between  two 
pans  of  ice.    Work  the  reserved  butter  into 

3  cups  bread  flour,  mix  to  a  dough  with 

1%  cups  ice  water,  knead  5  minutes,  cover  and  let  stand  for 
5  minutes.  Pat  and  roll  J4  inch  thick  with  square  corners. 
Place  butter  in  center  of  one  side  of  the  pastry,  fold  other 
side  over  butter  pressing  edges  firmly  together.  Fold  one 
end  over  butter,  other  end  under  butter,  pressing  edges 
together.  Turn  %  way  round,  pat  with  rolling  pin,  lift,  roll, 
fold  in  3  layers  and  turn  one- fourth  way  round.  Repeat 
four  times,  chilling  when  necessary  between  pans  of  ice 
and  folding  the  last  time  in  4  layers.  Chill,  roll  out,  shape, 
chill  again  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  reducing  heat  after  pastry 
has  risen. 

FRENCH  PASTRIES 

Among  the  novelties  that  can  be  made  from  puff  paste 
are  the  following: — 

Marshmallow  Tarts.  Line  small  patty  pan  with  pastry, 
then  with  wax  paper,  fill  with  raw  rice  or  beans,  bake, 
remove  rice,  put  in  layer  of  jam,  fill  with  stiff  marsh- 
mallow  cream,  and  cover  with  confectioners'  frosting 
flavored  with  lemon  and  colored  yellow. 

Marlowe  Tarts.  Prepare  cases  as  for  Marshmallow  Tarts 
and  cut  covers  to  fit.  Bake,  fill  with  fruit,  put  on  cover, 
frost,  and  decorate  with  green  cocoanut  in  narrow  border 
around  the  top. 


f  '     f  ^Htf       "<'  ^^^"^m, 

m    1  ^^i  j3 

^  ||B^  ^  >' v^ 

' ' '    iJ^ 

I^ 

L 

I 

V 

iHf    ^'~' ^  ^^^^K^ 

■7 

\        \      "^ 

wl 

' 

COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  47 

Apricot  Tarts.  Line  a  2-inch  round  shallow  tin  with  pastry, 
fill  with  marmalade,  cover  with  lady  finger  mixture, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds  and  bake. 

Apple  Boats.  Cover  small  boat-shaped  tins  with  pastry, 
prick  and  bake.  Remove  pastry.  Fill  with  apple  sauce, 
decorate  with  sections  of  apple,  half  of  them  cooked  in 
plain  and  half  cooked  in  syrup  colored  red. 

FiLENE  Tarts.  Bake  2  pieces  pastry  3  inches  long  and  ij^ 
inches  wide,  put  together  with  jam,  and  decorate  top  with 
meringue.    Bake  until  delicately  brown. 

Pastry  Sticks.  Cut  pastry  in  strips  3  inches  long  and  i 
inch  wide.  Bake,  split,  fill  with  jelly,  cover  with  confec- 
tioners' frosting  and  sprinkle  ends  with  chopped  nuts. 

Petite  Gateau.  Cut  pastry  2  inches  in  diameter.  Put 
border  of  choux  paste  around  edge,  bake,  fill  centre  with 
jam,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  glace  fruit. 

Marmalade  Baskets.  Cut  oval  pieces  of  puflf  paste,  score 
the  top  one-third  inch  from  edge  and  bake.  Cut  strips 
of  paste  for  handles  and  bake  separately  over  a  stiff  piece 
of  paper,  the  diameter  of  the  paper  roll  being  the  same  as 
the  width  of  the  oval.  Remove  centers  from  baskets  and 
fill  with  orange  marmalade  mixed  with  ^  the  amount  of 
blanched  and  shredded  almonds.  Insert  handles,  decorate 
with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  very 
strong  coffee  and  shredded  almonds  slightly  browned. 

Cream  Horns.  Roll  pastry  y%  inch  thick,  cut  in  strips  ^ 
inch  wide.  Roll  over  forms  of  stiff  paper,  bake  in  hot 
oven  until  well  puffed  and  slightly  brown.  Brush  with 
Qgg  white  slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with  i  teaspoon  cold 
water.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  return  to  oven,  finish  cooking 
and  remove  from  forms.  When  cold  fill  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored. 

Palm  Leaves.  Roll  remnants  of  puff  paste  %  inch  thick; 
sprinkle  ^  surface  with  powdered  sugar,  fold,  press  edges 
together,  pat  and  roll  out,  using  sugar  for  dredging  board ; 
repeat  3  times.  After  the  last  rolling  fold  4  times.  The 
pastry  should  be  in  a  long  strip  i^^  inches  wide.     From 


48 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


the  end  cut  pieces  i  inch  wide;  place  on  baking  sheet,  cut 
side  down,  i  inch  apart,  and  separate  layers  of  pastry  at 
one  end  to  suggest  a  leaf.  Bake  8  minutes  in  hot  oven; 
these  will  spread  while  baking. 

Turnovers.  Roll  pastry  ^  inch  thick,  and  put  in  pieces 
6  inches  long  and  3  inches  wide  with  round  ends.  Lay  on 
tin  sheet,  make  a  i-inch  cut  one  inch  from  each  end,  put 
jam  or  cooked  fruit  in  the  centre,  bring  one  end  of  pastry 
through  hole  in  other  end,  press  edges  together  and  bake. 

QUANTITIES  THAT  PAY 

Of  different  foods,  different  amounts  will  have  to  be 
made  by  a  consignor  to  cover  cost  of  overhead,  cost  of 
material  used  and  value  of  time  consumed. 

Take,  for  example,  Mock  Cherry  Pies. 

Recipe  MOCK  CHERRY  PIES  Date 

Profit 


Materials 

Amount 

Weight 

Unit  Cost 

Total 
Cost 

Overhead 
Charges 

Other 
Charges 

Selling 
Price 

Flour 

9     cups 

2}^  lb. 

$15.00  bbl. 

$0,172 

Lard 

2%  cups 

IHlb. 

.191b. 

.253 

Water 

\y2  cups 

Salt 

1     T 

Hoz. 

.021b. 

.001 

Cranberries 

43^  qt. 

4K2lb. 

14.00  per 
100  lb. 

.63 

Sugar 

8     cups 

4     lb. 

.101b. 

.40 

Cornstarch 

i^cup 

2J^oz. 

.101b. 

.014 

Molasses 

i     pint 

13^  lb. 

1.19  Gal. 

.15 

Raisins 

4     cups 

2     lb. 

.251b. 

.50 

Salt 

2HT 

IMoz. 

.002 

Water 

3     cups 

Pies 

Spies 

.26Ea. 

$2,122 

The  recipe  costs  about  $2.12  and  makes  8  pies. 

This  makes  26c  as  the  cost  of  i  pie  to  which  must  be 
added  6c  as  the  cost  of  box,  paper,  plate  and  string,  32c 
as  the  total  cost  of  each  pie  to  the  maker. 

Selling  price  of  each  pie,  if  the  cost  is  doubled,  64c. 

Allowance  per  pie  for  overhead  and  labor,  32c. 

Overhead  costs,  are,  say  $1.60  per  day,  if  you  hire  no 
help. 

Dividing  $1.60  by  32c,  the  cost  of  i  pie,  shows  that  5 
pies  would  cover  the  cost  of  overhead  for  i  day. 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  49 

In  order  to  make  $3.20  clear  (8  hours  at  40c  an  hour), 
to  pay  for  your  labor,  woul^l  take  10  pies  more ;  that  means 
a  total  of  15  pies  a  day. 

How  long  does  it  take  to  make  i  pie? 

Could  you  dispose  of  15  pies  a  day? 

Then  it  might  be  worth  while  to  work  up  a  business  in 
pies,  making  different  kinds  according  to  the  season  of  the 
year. 

If  you  are  operating  a  food  shop  yourself,  the  rent,  light, 
heat,  depreciation,  labor,  advertising,  etc.,  must  be  considered 
as  your  overhead,  as  explained  in  Lesson  i. 

In  your  own  home,  with  the  simplest  equipment,  the  daily 
expenses  may  be  no  more  than  $2.00  a  day. 

Perhaps  you  plan  to  specialize  in  doughnuts.  They  will 
cost  about  21  cents  a  dozen;  box  and  string  6  cents  more, 
which  makes  2^  cents  the  cost.  Selling  price  $0.60  sold  direct 
to  customer.     Cost,  27  cents ;  33  cents  margin. 

If  you  make  33c  on  each  dozen  it  will  take  6  dozen  to 
pay  your  overhead  expenses  of  $2.00  per  day. 

If  your  labor  for  8  hours  is  worth  $3.20,  it  will  take  10 
dozen  to  pay  for  your  labor. 

This  makes  a  total  of  16  dozen  for  the  day. 

Or,  if  you  are  selling  doughnuts  for  a  consignor,  you  may 
get  I2C  for  each  dozen  you  sell.  Then  with  overhead  and 
labor  at  $5.20,  dividing  by  12  gives  43%  dozen  which  must 
be  sold  daily.  If  that  is  not  feasible,  add  other  consigned 
articles  to  your  list,  until  you  are  selling  enough  to  pay 
you  for  your  time  and  trouble. 

CHANGING  SMALL  RECIPES  TO  LARGE  ONES 

In  making  some  kinds  of  foods  for  a  food  shop,  just  as 
good  results  can  be  secured  by  making  a  large  quantity  as 
by  making  a  small  quantity. 


50  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Experiment  with  your  equipment  and  your  strength,  mak- 
ing a  little  more  each  time,  until  you  discover  how  much 
you  can  make  at  once  without  becoming  overtired,  or  chang- 
ing the  quality  of  your  product. 

Increase  the  proport;ions  of  each  thing,  writing  down  the 
amounts  on  paper  and  verifying  your  multiplications  to  be 
sure  they  are  correct  before  beginning  to  cook. 

Increasing  a  Recipe 

CREAM  CAKES 

For  I  doz.  large  or  3  to  4  For  4  doz.  large  or  12  to  16  doz. 

doz.  small.  small. 

^  cup  butter  substitute.  2  cups  or  one  pound. 

I  cup  boiling  water.  i  quart. 

4  eggs.  16  or  i^^  dozen. 

I  cup  bread  flour.  i  quart  or  i  pound. 

Cream  Filling 

For  I  doz.  cakes.  For  4  doz.  large  cakes. 

I  cup  milk.  I  quart. 

%  cup  flour.  %  cup  or  %  pound. 

Yi  cup  scant  sugar.  iM  cups. 

I  egg  yolk.  4  egg  yolks. 

^ie  teaspoon  salt.  Ya  teaspoon. 

Y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  2  teaspoons. 

Scald  milk,  add  flour,  sugar  and  salt;  stir  until  thickened,  cover 
and  cook  15  minutes.  Add  t^g  yolk  slightly  beaten,  stir  and  cook 
2  minutes.    Cool  and  add  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling 

For  I  doz.  For  4  doz. 

Cream  filling  i  cup.  4  cups. 

Sugar  extra  i  tablespoon.  Ya  cup. 

Chocolate  bitter  ^^  ounce.  3  ounces. 

Add  melted  chocolate  and  sugar  to  cream  filling  before  adding 
the  egg. 

Coffee  Cream  Filling 

For   I    doz.  For  4  doz. 

Milk  for  cream  filling  i  cup.  4  cups. 

Ground  coffee  i  tablespoon.  J4  cup. 

Scald  milk  with  coffee,  strain  and  proceed  as  in  cream  filling. 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  51 

Cream  Filling  With  Whipped  Cream 

For  I  doz.  cakes.  For  4  doz.  large  cakes. 

Cream  filling  i  cup.  4  cups. 

Heavy  cream  Ys  cup.  1%  cups. 

Beat  heavy  cream  until  stiff,  and  add  to  cold  cooked  cream 
filling  just  before  using. 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURE 

Learn  by  heart  this  table  of  measures  adding  to  it  the 
particular  things  you  use  so  you  can  quickly  write  a  large 
recipe  in  large  terms. 


3 

teaspoons 

equal 

I  tablespoon 

16 

tablespoons 

« 

I  cup 

2 

cups 

(( 

I  pint 

4 

cups 

« 

I  quart 

4 

quarts 

« 

I  gallon 

8 

quarts 

« 

I  peck 

4 

pecks 

« 

I  bushel 

I 

cup  butter  or  substitute 

weighs 

8  ounces 

I 

cup  flour 

" 

4  ounces 

2 

cups  granulated  sugar 

<< 

I  pound 

22/3 

cups  powdered  sugar 

(( 

I  pound 

3^ 

cups  confectioners'  sugar 

(( 

I  pound 

2% 

cups  brown  sugar 

<< 

I  pound 

2V2 

cups  baking  powder 

<( 

I  pound 

16 

ounces  of  anything  dry 

(( 

I  pound 

I 

peck  apples 

« 

12  pounds 

I 

peck  cranberries 

" 

8  pounds 

I 

peck  potatoes 

« 

15  pounds 

I 

barrel  flour 

(( 

196  pounds 

I 

barrel  potatoes 

(( 

165  pounds 

DELICATESSEN  SHOP 

A  delicatessen  shop  may  be  desirable  in  your  neighbor- 
hood, where  people  can  buy  enough  food  for  an  entire  meal 
cooked  and  ready  to  take  home.  In  such  a  shop  the  follow- 
ing foods  should  sell  well,  in  addition  to  those  suggested  in 
this  and  other  lessons.  Have  a  few  different  dishes  each 
day,  not  all  the  same  day. 

Soups 

Meat   soups:     Consomme,   Bouillon,    Chicken   broth   with   rice. 

Lamb  broth  with  barley. 
Cream  soups :   Potato  and  other  vegetable  soups. 
Chowders:   Fish,  clam,  corn,  etc. 


52  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Substantial  Salads 


Potato. 

Moulded  salmon. 

Chicken. 

Cole  Slaw. 

Crabmeat. 

Mixed  Vegetables. 

Meats 

Roast  Stuffed  Chicken. 

Roast  Pork. 

Roast  Lamb. 

Boiled  Ham. 

Roast  Beef. 

Corned  Beef. 

Roast  Veal. 

Meat  Loaves. 

Miscellaneous 

Corned  Tongue. 

Fish  Balls. 

Chicken  Stew. 

Croquettes. 

Lamb  Stew. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. 

Beef  Stew. 

Scalloped  Dishes. 

Veal  Stew. 

Potato  Chips. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Ice  Cream. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

Chocolate  sauce  for  Ice  Cream. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

Butterscotch  sauce  for  Ice  Cream. 

Goulash. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Rice  Pudding. 

Baked  Beans. 

Hot   Coffee. 

The  foods  that  will  sell  best  depend  on: — 
Locality  in  which  the  shop  is  located. 
Whether  the  people  in  the  neighborhood  are  high 

salaried  or  poorly  paid. 
Their  food  habits. 
Their  likes  and  dislikes. 
Their  nationality  and  the  season  of  the  year. 

Prices  must  be  regulated  by : — 
The  cost  of  material  used. 
Cost  of  overhead. 
The  class  of  people  for  whom  you  cater. 

Special  Breakfast  Combinations 
You  might  have  special  breakfast  combinations  such  as : 

Fruit. 

Cooked  or  individual  packages  of  cereal  and  one-fourth  pint  jar 

thin  cream. 
Rolls  with  small  portions  of  butter. 


COOKING  FOR  THE  FOOD  SHOP  53 


2  eggs  or 

Sliced  bacon  or 

Fish  cakes 

Coffee  in  cheesecloth  bags  holding  i  ounce  (enough  for  2  cups). 

Sugar,  %  lb.  in  paper  carton. 

Jam  or  marmalade,  individual  jars. 

Dinner  Combinations 

I  hot  dish. 

Salad. 

Salad  dressing. 

Fresh  hot  rolls. 

Dessert  in  individual  dishes. 

Coffee. 

Have  a  distinctive  note  in  your  delicatessen  to  distinguish 
it  from  common,  ordinary,  only  half-clean  eating  places. 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  $2.50. 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  $2.00. 

Paul  Richards'  Pastry  Book,  $2.50. 

Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Preparation  of  Meals,  Robinson  and 
Hammel,  $2.00. 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving,  Janet  M.  Hill,  $3.00. 

Pies  and  Pastry  Desserts,  Alice  Bradley,  In  Woman's  Home  Com- 
panion, Nov.  1919. 

Puff  Paste,  Alice  Bradley,  In  Woman's  Home  Companion,  March, 
1921. 

(The  above  books  may  be  borrowed,  one  at  a  time,  by  Members 
of  the  School.  Send  12  to  20  cents  in  stamps,  according  to  distance 
for  each  book.    Return  or  purchase  within  one  week  of  receipt.) 


54  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
III 

Cooking  for  the  Food  Shop 

1.  How  much  fat  is  used  in  frying  two  dozen  doughnuts? 

2.  How  many  cookies  can  you  make  from  the  recipe  given 

in  this  lesson? 

3.  What  is  the  cost  of  cookies  per  dozen  if  plain?     With 

three  of  the  variations?  Send  in  all  figures  arranged 
on  cards  as  shown  on  page  48. 

4.  Change  your  favorite  recipe  for  one  lemon  pie  to  enough 

for  eight  pies  and  figure  the  cost.  How  much  profit  is 
there  on  eight  pies  after  deducting  overhead  costs  fig- 
ured as  in  Lesson  I  ?    Send  in  all  details  and  figures. 

5.  Do  you  make  good  puff  paste?     Have  you  a  cook  book 

with  directions  for  making  patties? 

6.  Is  there  an  opening  for  a  cooked  food  shop  or  delicatessen 

in  your  neighborhood?    Your  reason  for  thinking  so. 

7.  Suggest  list  of  foods  that  might  be  sold  in  the  Food  Shop. 

In  the  Delicatessen  Shop  in  your  community. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
IV 


< 
u 

o 

Q 
Q 
W 

^ 

Q 
W 
H 

<; 
Pi 
o 

w 

Q 
>^ 
W 

o 

CO 

Q 

< 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  IV 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING 

LOAF  AND  LAYER  CAKES;  SPONGE  AND  SUNSHINE  CAKE; 
ANGEL  food;  POUND  CAKES;  FRUIT  CAKES  (PLAIN  AND  RICH)  ; 
SMALL  RECEPTION  CAKES;  AFTERNOON  TEA  CAKES;  FILLINGS; 
FROSTINGS;  CAKE  DECORATION;  RECIPES;  HOW  TO  FIGURE  COST 
AND   SELLING  PRICE. 

THERE  is  undoubtedly  a  market  for  cake  in  almost  any 
community  of  moderate  size.  Many  women  have  not 
the  time  or  do  not  know  how  to  bake  cake  them- 
selves, and  are  only  too  glad  to  purchase  a  superior  article 
regularly  or  when  they  entertain. 

You  might  in  the  beginning  make  cakes  to  order  for  your 
friends  and  their  friends.  At  first  there  may  be  only  3  or  4 
orders  a  week.  Before  long  orders  may  come  for  cakes  for 
receptions,  lodge  suppers,  afternoon  teas  and  parties ;  orders 
which  are  large  enough  to  require  more  than  a  day  for  their 
preparation.  Perhaps  this  may  lead  to  the  establishment  of 
an  attractive  cake  shop  on  the  best  street  of  a  large  city,  or 
to  a  real  catering  business  where  all  the  other  dishes  required 
for  a  party  are  provided  in  addition  to  the  cakes. 

No  one  should  expect  to  make  cakes  that  are  good  enough 
to  sell  at  a  profit  unless  she  has  had  some  previous  experience 
and  success  in  making  cakes. 

55 


56  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

A  cake  to  be  called  successful  should  have  these  charac- 
teristics : 

1.  Light  when  handled,  except  dark  fruit  cake. 

2.  Light  brown  crust  on  all  sides,  showing  that  cake  is 

neither  under-baked  nor  over-baked. 

3.  Even  surface,  no  cracks  or  humps. 

4.  Fine  grain. 

5.  Smooth  velvety  texture. 

6.  If  frosted,  frosting  that  is  attractive  in  appearance  and 

that  does  not  crack  or  stick  when  cut. 

Selling  Cake 

Each  specialty  shop  and  home  cake  maker  has  her  own 
names  and  variations  in  the  style  of  cakes  for  sale,  and  in 
the  flavor  and  character  of  the  filling,  frosting  and  decora- 
tions. 

Perfect  your  own  specialty;  the  kind  of  cake  that  your 
patrons  like  because  it  is  especially  good  and  different,  and 
give  it  an  attractive  name  in  addition  to  its  class  name,  as 
pound,  sponge,  white,  et  cetera. 

In  the  beginning  you  will  probably  make  your  cakes  in 
the  ordinary  family  quantity.  As  your  orders  increase  you 
can  increase  your  quantities  until  you  are  mixing  perhaps 
enough  for  5  loaves  at  a  time. 

With  an  electric  mixer  you  may  be  able  to  make  20  loaves 
at  once,  or  40  layers. 

Standardize  the  size  of  your  pans.  Always  use  the  same 
pans  for  the  same  kind  of  cake,  unless  you  have  orders  for 
a  special  size. 

Individual  cakes,  muffin  pan  size,  smaller  cakes  for  after- 
noon teas,  loaf  and  layer  cakes,  all  are  popular. 

Cakes  may  be  sold  through  a  food  shop,  a  store,  to  a  lunch 
room  or  directly  to  your  customers. 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  57 

A  card  in  the  local  paper  should  secure  orders  in  a  com- 
munity where  much  entertaining  is  done. 

A  dainty  folder  listing  the  kinds  of  cakes  you  will  make 
to  order  could  be  mailed  to  such  people  as  you  think  would 
be  interested. 

A  neighborhood  of  high  class  apartment  houses  is  a  good 
field  in  which  to  start  a  business  in  cake  making  or  other 
cooked  food  project. 

Quality  should  be  your  first  consideration,  and  patrons 
will  be  found  among  people  of  discriminating  taste,  who 
have  money  to  gratify  their  taste. 

After  your  business  is  started  take  note  of  customers* 
tastes,  and  cater  to  them.  Some  cakes  will  sell  well,  and 
others  will  not  sell  even  in  different  sections  of  the  same 
city.     Keep  watch  of  the  sales. 

Never  sell  a  stale  cake  or  one  that  is  not  up  to  your 
standard. 

How  Many  Cakes  Ahead 

Cakes  will  keep  better  without  frosting  than  with  it.  If 
you  have  a  large  cake  shop,  keep  about  3  dozen  individual 
cakes  and  2  loaf  cakes  a  day  ahead  of  your  orders.  Maca- 
roons will  probably  all  be  sold  every  day. 

Use  for  Stale  Cakes 

Cakes  may  be  sold  at  cost  at  the  end  of  the  second  day,  or 
stale  cake,  crumbs  and  ends  of  cake  that  result  from  cut- 
ting cake  in  fancy  shapes,  may  be  rubbed  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  or  when  dry,  run  through  the  food  chopper.  Such 
crumbs  may  be  substituted  for  half  the  flour  in  hermits, 
spice  cakes  and  Boston  brown  bread. 

Profit  on  Cakes 

The  most  common  way  of  charging  for  cakes,  if  they  are 
to  be  sold,  is  to  estimate  the  cost  of  materials  and  double  it. 


58 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


If  elaborately  decorated,  an  extra  charge  should  be  made 
proportionate  to  the  time  consumed  in  decorating.  If  orig- 
inal designs  are  worked  out  the  price  should  be  proportion- 
ately graded. 

The  cake  shop  may  add  an  extra  charge  of  30%  to  cover 
cost  of  selling.  This  30%  you  may  add  to  double  the  cost 
of  your  materials  to  make  your  price,  when  you  sell  direct 
to  the  consumer. 

Cake  when  cut  and  sold  in  a  lunch  or  tea  room  must  be 
priced  higher  than  by  the  loaf. 

Cake  Prices 

The  following  list  of  cakes,  popular  in  a  high-class  food 
shop,  may  help  you  to  choose  your  specialty  in  this  line. 

The  small  cakes  are  sold  at  from  60  cents  to  $1.44  per 
dozen.  The  loaf  cakes,  which  vary  in  size  from  8  by  4 
inches  to  9  inches  square  or  9  inches  in  diameter,  sell  for 
from  50  cents  to  $1.75  each,  according  to  the  size  and  the 
variety. 

Rich  dark  fruit  cake  brings  from  %i.oo  to  $1.90  a  pound. 

Small  decorated  cakes  sell  for  from  $1.50  a  dozen  up,  and 
large  decorated  cakes  up  to  $10.00  or  more  each. 

POPULAR  CAKES 


Name 


Style 


Filling   and   Frosting 


White   Cakes 

Angel  cake 

Round     loaf,     hole 
center 

in 

Japanese   frosting 

Angel  cakes 

Individual 

Japanese  frosting 

White  ornamental   frosting 

Bride's  cake 

White  loaf 

Caramel  cake 

Loaf 

Nut  caramel   frosting 

Caramel  layer 

3  layers 

Nut    caramel    frosting   between 
and  on  top 

Caramel  cakes 

Individual 

Nut  caramel  frosting 

Chocolate  layer 

3  layers 

Boiled    chocolate    frosting    be- 
tween and  on  top 

White  fruit 

Loaf  with  almonds, 
ron   and   cherries 

cit- 

White  loaf 

White  cake  with  nuts 

CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING 


59 


Favorite  loaf 
Favorites 


Yellow  Cakes 

Loaf 
Individual 


Telly  3  square  layers 

Baby   Baltimore  Individual 


Lady  Baltimore 


3  layers 


Maple  layer 

3  layers 

Owen  Wister 

3  layers 

Washington  pie 
White  mountain 

3  round  layers 
3  layers 

Chocolate  cream 

Loaf 

Currant  cakes 
Golden  puff  sponge 

Hazelnut  cream  pie 

Individual 

Loaf  sponge  cake, 

in  center 
3  layers 

hole 


Lord  Baltimore 


Orange  sunshine 


Petit  Four 

Pound 
Roxbury  cakes 


Sponges 
Unfrosted  walnut 


3  layers 


3  layers 


Small  sponge  or  pound 
cakes,  assorted  shapes 
Very  rich  loaf 
Individual  spice  cakes 


Individual  sponge 
Loaf 


White  frosting 

White  frosting 

Jelly  or  jam  between 

Pink  boiled  frosting 

Boiled  frosting  with  chopped 
nuts  between  layers,  pink 
boiled  frosting  on  top  and 
sides 

Boiled  frosting  flavored  with 
maple  or  made  of  maple 
sugar,  between  and  on  top 

Boiled  frosting  with  nuts  and 
raisins  between  and  a  little 
on  top;  plain  boiled  frosting, 
flavored  with  almond  and 
rosewater,    on  top  and   sides 

Telly  or  jam  between 

Boiled  frosting  between,  pow- 
dered  sugar   on   top 

Boiled  frosting  covered  with 
melted  chocolate 

Currants  in  cake 


Cooked  filling  with  nuts  be- 
tween; boiled  frosting  on 
top  sprinkled  with  chopped 
toasted  hazel  nuts 

Boiled  frosting  with  maca- 
roons, nuts  and  cherries  be* 
tween;  boiled  frosting  on 
top  decorated  with  cherries 
and  angelica 

Orange  filling  between  layers; 
boiled  frosting  flavored  with 
orange  on  top 

Covered  with  fondant,  deco- 
rated with  frosting,  etc. 

White  frosting  with  small  cir- 
cle of  chocolate  frosting  in 
center 

Walnuts  in  cake 


Chocolate  Cakes 
Columbia  teas  Individual  chocolate 


Chocolate   caramel 
Chocolate      marshmal- 

low 
Creole   chocolate 


Creole  layer  pie 
Fudge  squares 


Fudges 
Fudge  cake 


Chocolate  loaf 
Chocolate  loaf 

3  layers,  chocolate  nut 
cake 

I  yellow  layer  between 
2  chocolate  layers 

Thin  chocolate  nut  cake 
cut  in  squares 

Individual  chocolate 

Chocolate  cake  with 
nuts 


White     frosting    with     bit     of 
chocolate   frosting   in   center 
Caramel   frosting 
White  marshmallow  frosting 

Boiled  frosting  between  and 
on  top.  Boiled  chocolate 
frosting  on  top  of  white 

Fudge  frosting  and  marsh- 
mallows  between  and  on  top 


Fudge  frosting 
Fudge  frosting 


Fruit   Cakes 


Dark  fruit  cake 
Wedding  cake 


Loaf 

Very     rich 
cake 


dark    fruit     White  ornamental  frosting 


60  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Measurements  and  Ingredients 

Be  very  careful  and  accurate  in  all  your  measurements. 

In  all  our  recipes  measurements  are  level. 

A  good  margarine  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter.  For 
white  cakes  it  need  not  be  colored.  It  may  be  colored  for 
yellow  and  dark  cakes.  Fewer  or  smaller  cakes  result  from 
a  mixture  made  with  margarine  in  place  of  butter,  and 
you  may  find  butter  more  economical  to  use  in  spite  of  the 
difference  in  cost. 

Fine  granulated  sugar  should  be  used  unless  the  recipe 
specifies  some  other  kind. 

Frozen  ^gg  whites  and  yolks  may  be  used  if  the  contents 
of  a  container  can  all  be  used  in  one  day.  They  come  in  lo, 
20  and  30  pound  tubs.  Where  recipes  are  increased  several 
times,  the  difference  in  the  amount  of  egg  used,  if  they  are 
very  large  or  very  small,  will  be  considerable.  Break  the 
required  number  of  average  sized  fresh  eggs,  measure  them 
and  write  the  amount  in  your  recipe.  Then  measure  eggs 
thereafter  instead  of  counting  them. 

Powdered  milk  dissolved  in  water  may  be  used  in  place 
of  fresh  milk.    It  is  convenient  as  it  can  always  be  on  hand. 

Use  the  best  pastry  flour,  sifted  once  before  measuring. 

Use  a  high  class  baking  powder  and  the  kind  with  which 
you  secure  the  best  results.  Some  people  prefer  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar  in  cake.  You  may  use  ^  as  much  cream 
of  tartar  as  the  amount  of  baking  powder  called  for  and  % 
as  much  soda  as  cream  of  tartar  if  you  wish.  It  is  wise  to 
use  salt  in  all  cake  recipes. 

Use  good  flavorings.  The  price  you  charge  for  your  cake 
should  cover  any  difference  in  cost  between  good  and  poor 
extracts. 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  61 

Mixing  Cake 

Follow  directions  carefully. 

With  an  electric  cake  mixer,  the  ingredients  can  be  put  in 
one  at  a  time,  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  beat  the  eggs  sep- 
arately. Baking  powder  and  beaten  egg  whites  should  be 
beaten  or  folded  in  by  hand  after  other  ingredients  are  com- 
bined by  the  machine. 

Add  flavoring  with  the  milk,  then  if  whites  of  eggs  or 
flour  have  to  be  folded  in,  no  further  mixing  is  necessary  to 
thoroughly  incorporate  the  extract. 

It  is  a  safe  precaution  always  to  line  your  cake  pans  with 
paper,  then  grease  paper  and  sides  of  pan,  using  a  rubber 
set  pastry  brush  and  cooking  oil. 

Use  a  spatula  for  cleaning  your  mixing  bowls.  Do  not 
waste  cake  or  frosting  material. 

When  cake  mixture  is  put  in  pan,  spread  it  a  little  higher 
on  the  sides  than  in  the  middle,  so  that  it  will  rise  evenly. 

Small  Cakes 

Small  cakes  may  be  baked  in  muflin  pans  of  different 
sizes,  or  may  be  cut  from  a  thin  sheet  of  fine  grained  rich 
cake,  like  the  pound  cake  given  below. 

Avoid  waste  in  cutting  cakes,  and  use  the  crumbs  in  mak- 
ing an  inexpensive  crumb  cake  or  hermits. 

Paper  cases  can  be  purchased  to  use  in  muffin  pans  for 
small  cakes.  They  should  be  sold  in  the  paper,  which  can  be 
pulled  ofif  when  cakes  are  served. 

Baking  Cake 

If  you  use  an  oven  with  a  reliable  thermometer,  learn  at 
what  temperature  your  cakes  bake  best  and  always  main- 
tain it. 


62  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

If  you  have  a  gas  or  electric  range  and  no  thermometer, 
you  can  purchase  a  chemical  thermometer  for  about  $5.00. 
Insert  it  in  a  large  cork,  which  will  hold  the  thermometer 
upright.  Have  a  hole  made  in  the  center  of  the  top  of 
the  oven  of  the  correct  size  to  fit  the  cork.  The  thermometer 
can  be  easily  read  on  the  outside  and  your  temperature  main- 
tained evenly  and  exactly. 

Experiment  with  you  cakes  and  your  thermometer  until 
you  learn  the  temperature  at  which  you  secure  the  best  re- 
sults, then  you  need  never  fear  failure  in  your  baking.  You 
will  find  the  temperature  varies  with  different  kinds  of  cake. 
For  most  cakes  the  thermometer  should  register  between 
300  and  400  degrees. 

Without  a  thermometer  excellent  results  can  be  secured 
by  lighting  both  burners  of  a  gas  oven  for  ten  mintues,  put- 
ting in  the  cake  and  turning  off  all  the  heat  for  five  minutes 
with  small  cakes  and  ten  minutes  with  large  cakes.  Then 
turn  on  one  or  both  burners  part  way  and  regulate  as  neces- 
sary. 

With  coal  or  wood  ovens  have  a  good  fire  when  the  cake 
goes  in,  and  increase  heat  slightly  after  cake  has  risen. 

The  time  required  for  baking  may  be  divided  into  quar- 
ters: during  the  first  quarter  the  mixture  should  begin  to 
rise ;  during  the  second  quarter  it  should  continue  rising  and 
begin  to  brown;  during  the  third  quarter  it  should  continue 
browning ;  during  the  fourth  quarter  it  should  finish  baking 
and  shrink  from  pan. 

When  cake  is  correctly  baked,  it  should  shrink  from  sides 
of  pan,  should  be  of  an  even  brown  color,  there  should  be 
no  sound  of  bubbling  when  held  close  to  the  ear,  and  a  tooth- 
pick inserted  in  the  centre  should  come  out  clean. 

When  finished  turn  out  the  cake  on  a  wire  cake  cooler  that 
there  may  be  a  free  circulation  of  air  on  all  sides  of  the  cake 
while  it  is  cooling. 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  63 

Shapes  for  Little  Cakes  (Petit  Fours) 

When  a  sheet  of  cake  is  cool  it  may  be  cut  in  the  following 
shapes,  using  a  sharp  knife  or  a  cookie  cutter : 
Square — i^  to  2  inches  square. 
Rectangular — 2  inches  by  i  inch. 
Oval — 2  inches  long. 
Circle — i  to  3  inches  in  diameter. 
Triangle — 2  inches  by  i^  inches  by  1J/2  inches. 
Diamond — i^  inches  on  each  side. 
Cutlet — 2  inches  long. 

Fillings  and  Frostings 

Cakes  may  be  split,  and  a  jelly,  nut  or  frosting  filling  put 
in  between.  They  may  be  covered  with  frosting  on  top  only, 
or  the  sides  may  be  covered  as  well. 

Cake  Decoration 

Cakes  are  decorated  for  special  occasions  and  holidays. 

Decorations  may  be  of  frosting,  plain  or  colored,  forced 
through  pastry  bags  of  cloth  or  paper. 

For  wedding  and  bride  cakes,  white  frosting  is  best.  For 
birthday  cakes  and  cakes  for  holidays  and  other  special  oc- 
casions, colored  decorations  on  a  white  background  may  be 
used  effectively. 

A  cloth  bag  with  metal  tubes,  the  ends  cut  in  many  differ- 
ent ways,  may  be  purchased  of  a  dealer  in  kitchen  furnish- 
ings.   These  are  best  when  white  frosting  is  used. 

Paper  tubes  may  be  quickly  made  from  a  sheet  of  firm 
letter  paper  11  by  8^  inches.  Cut  from  corner  to  corner 
into  two  triangular  pieces  and  form  each  into  a  cornucopia  by 
holding  by  the  two  sharp  ends.  Turn  in  the  edges  to  hold 
the  funnel.    The  point  of  the  funnel  is  then  clipped  to  leave 


64  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

a  small  round  opening  of  desired  size  for  dots,  lines  and 
writing. 

For  leaves,  press  the  point  of  the  paper  funnel  flat,  clip  off 
one-fourth  inch  from  the  end,  clip  off  the  corners,  making  a 
V  point,  and  make  a  slit  one-eighth  inch  long  in  the  point 
of  the  V.  For  large  leaves  and  petals  clip  more  from  the 
end. 

For  some  flower  petals,  flatten  and  clip  off  the  point  of 
the  funnel  as  before  and  cut  two  notches  in  the  end,  making 
the  shape  of  the  letter  M  or  W. 

Paper  tubes  are  especially  satisfactory  when  several  dif- 
ferent colors  are  being  used. 

Color  pastes  or  liquid  colors  that  are  certified  by  the 
Federal  Government  should  be  used,  and  all  colors  should 
be  light  and  delicate. 

*'Half  fill  a  paper  funnel  with  frosting,  bring  edges  of  open 
end  together,  and  fold  over  twice,  that  frosting  may  not  come 
out  at  the  top.  Hold  the  funnel  in  the  right  hand  with  the 
little  finger  toward  the  point  of  the  tube  and  the  thumb  and 
forefinger  closed  tightly  above  the  frosting.  Force  the  frost- 
ing gently  through  the  hole  in  the  end  of  the  tube  by  squeez- 
ing with  the  right  hand  and  guiding  with  the  left  hand.  Allow 
the  tube  point  to  rest  lightly  on  the  surface  to  be  decorated. 
Conventional  designs  may  be  attempted  at  first,  and  soon  it 
will  be  possible  to  make  flowers  and  leaves.  Do  not  use  a 
tube  after  it  has  become  soft  and  out  of  shape  at  the  point." 
— From  Candy  Cook  Book,  by  Alice  Bradley. 

Flowers,  leaves  and  stems  may  be  effectively  used  for 
cakes,  especially  the  following.  If  possible  copy  from  the 
fresh  flowers  or  from  good  colored  pictures. 

Wild  roses 
Rose  buds 
Chrysanthemums 
Forget-me-nots 
Brown-eyed  Susans 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  65 

Jonquils 

Bachelor  buttons 

Violets,  yellow  and  purple 

White  wild  roses  with  silver  dragees  in  the  centre 

Lilies  of  the  valley 

Sweet  peas 

Holly 

Poinsettias 

Butterflies 

Colored  frosting  is  generally  used  for  the  above  flowers, 
but  almond  paste,  tiny  colored  candies,  angelica,  citron,  can- 
died fruits  and  nuts  are  also  effective. 

Designs  can  be  beautifully  painted  with  a  fine  brush  and 
color  paste  on  smooth  white  frosting. 

Frostings 

For  ornamental  frosting  decorations  you  can  use 
Boiled  frosting 

Uncooked  ornamental  frosting 
Butter  or  mocha  frosting 
Japanese  frosting 

Other  Decorations 

These  may  be  used  in  regular  or  fancy  designs  on  large  or 
small  cakes: 
Nuts 

Almonds,  blanched  and  cut 

Walnuts,  whole  or  cut  in  pieces 

Pecans,  whole  or  cut  in  pieces 

Pistachio  nuts,  blanched  and  sliced  or  chopped 
Cocoanut,  plain  or  colored. 
Candied  cherries,  pineapple  or  plums  cut  in  small 

pieces 
Angelica 
Citron 


66  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Candies 

Candied  caraway  seeds 
Small  red  cinnamon  drops 
Marshmallows,  whole  or  cut  in  strips 

Almond  paste  colored  and  shaped 

Delivering  Cakes 

Deliver  your  cakes  in  firm  folding  boxes,  made  to  order 
if  necessary,  of  a  size  to  just  hold  the  cake  without  crushing. 

For  decorated  cakes  the  box  should  be  large  enough  to 
allow  for  cut  or  crushed  tissue  paper  between  the  box  and 
the  cake. 

For  sending  fruit  cakes  by  mail,  provide  tin  boxes  just 
the  size  of  the  pan  in  which  the  cake  is  baked. 

RECIPES  FOR  ESPECIALLY  GOOD  CAKES 

Boston  Favorite  Cake 

Cream  until  very  soft  and  light 
%  cup  butter,  add  gradually 
2  cups  sugar  and 

4  egg  yolks  beaten  until  thick;  then  add  alternately 
I  cup  milk  and 

Sj4  cups  flour  sifted  with 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 
j4  teaspoon  salt ;  fold  in 

4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff. 

This  makes  2  loaves  or  4  layers  or  2  to  3  dozen  small  cakes. 

Yellow  Layer  Pie 

Cream 
H  cup  butter,  add  gradually 

1  cup  sugar 

8  egg  yolks  well  beaten 

2  teaspoons  vanilla;  then  add  alternately 
5^  cup  milk  and 

i^  cups  flour  sifted  with 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 

ii  teaspoon  salt.    Bake  in  three  greased  layer  tins  or  in  loaves. 
This  is  an  excellent  cake  and  a  practical  one  when  many  whites 
of  eggs  are  needed  for  white  cakes  and  frostings. 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  67 

Light  Fruit  Cake 
Cream 

I  cup  butter,  add  finely  grated  yellow  rind 

I  lemon  and 

I  cup  sugar  gradually.    Beat 

4  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  to  first  mixture  and 

beat  thoroughly.     Add 
iH  cups  flour  sifted  with 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
J4  teaspoon  salt  and 

%.  teaspoon  cinnamon.    Add 

J4  cup  almonds  blanched  and  shredded  and 

J4  cup  mixed  candied  fruit;  beat  well,  and  fold  in 

4  egg  whites  beaten  until  stiff.     Bake  in  a  pan,  lined  with  paper, 

buttered,  and  sprinkled  with 

2  tablespoons  each  of  flour  and  sugar,  sifted  together. 

Dried  fruits  or  different  nuts  can  be  substituted  for  candied  fruits 
and  almonds  and  flavoring  extract  for  cinnamon. 

White  Cake 

Cream 

%  cup  butter,  add  gradually 

lYs  cups  flour  sifted  with 

y2  teaspoon  soda;  then  add 

1 5^  teaspoons  lemon  juice.    Beat 

6  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  gradually 

1%  cups  powdered  sugar  while  beating  constantly;  combine  mix- 
tures, then  fold  in 

%  cup  flour. 

Bride's  Cake 

Make  the  White  Cake  and  bake  in  a  loaf,  or,  if  desired,  in  three 
molds  of  graduated  size.  Put  together  with  frosting  between  and 
decorate  with  ornamental  frosting.  For  a  large  cake  three  times  the 
recipe  will  be  needed.  A  Bride's  Cake  should  contain  a  ring,  a 
thimble,  a  coin  and  a  button.  These  are  very  small  and  may  be 
pushed  into  the  cake  just  before  frosting. 

Pound  Cake 

Cream 
I  cup  butter  less  i  tablespoon;  add  gradually 
1%  cups  flour.    Beat 

5  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored  and  add  gradually 
iH  cups  sugar;  combine  mixtures,  add 

5  egg  whites  beaten  until  stiff 

I  teaspoon  vanilla  and  sift  over 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  angel  cake 
pan  or  bread  pan  i  hour  in  moderate  oven,  or  bake  in  a  drip- 
ping pan  and  when  cold  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  frost  and  dec- 
orate. 


68  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Sponge  Cake 
Beat 

5  egg  yolks  until  very  light,  then  beat  in  gradually 

I  cup  sugar  and 

I  teaspoon  vanilla.    Beat 

5  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  dry  and  fold  into  the  yolks. 

Mix 
I  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 

J^  teaspoon  salt  and  sift  and  fold  gently  into  the  ^gg  mixture. 
Bake  in  an  iron  frying  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  and  split  and 
fill  it  when  cold,  or  bake  in  two  layer  cake  pans,  in  a  sheet,  a 
loaf,  or  in  muffin  pans. 

Sunshine  Cake 

To 
Whites  ID  eggs  add 

y^  teaspoon  salt  and  beat  until  light.     Sift  in 
y%  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff.    Beat 
Yolks  7  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored  and  add 

2  heaping  tablespoons  beaten  whites.     To  remaining  whites  add 

gradually, 
ij^  cups  sugar  measured  after  five  sif tings.    Add 
I  teaspoon  almond  extract  and  combine  mixtures.    Cut  and  fold  in 
I  cup  pastry  flour,  measured  after  five  siftings.     Bake  in  angel- 
cake  pan,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour. 

Have  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  oven  during  the  baking.    Frost  as 

desired. 

Angel  Cake 

Beat 
ij^  cups  egg  whites  until  stiff,  using  large  egg  beater. 

Remove  egg  beater  and  add  gradually 
ij^  cups  sugar  mixed  with 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  folding  in  with  wooden  cake  spoon. 

Cut  and  fold  in 
I  cup  bread  flour,  mixed  with 
J4  teaspoon  salt,  and  add 

1  teaspoon  vanilla.    Turn  into  an  unbuttered  angel  cake  pan,  cover 

and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove  cover 
and  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  Invert  pan  on 
wire  cake  cooler  and  let  stand,  when  cake  should  by  its  own 
weight  drop  from  pan. 

Fudge  Cake 

Melt 
4  to  8  ounces  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add 

2  egg  yolks  and  very  slowly 

I  cup  milk,  sweet  or  sour,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  and  stir  over 
hot  water  until  mixture  thickens,  then  set  aside  to  cool.    Cream 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  69 

j^  cup  butter  substitute;  and  add 
2  cups  brown  sugar  slowly;  add 

2  teaspoons  vanilla  and 

I  cup  milk  or  boiled  coffee  alternately  with 

3  cups  bread  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with 
i^  teaspoons  soda  and 

I  teaspoon  salt.    Add  chocolate  mixture,  beat  thoroughly  and  bake. 

Marshmallow  Layer  Cake 

For  marshmallow  layer  cake  bake  Fudge  Cake  in  three  square 
cake  pans  lined  with  greased  paper.  Remove  cakes  from  tins  as 
soon  as  they  come  from  the  oven.  Place  marshmallows  immediately 
between  and  on  top  of  the  cakes.  The  heat  of  the  cakes  will  cause 
them  to  melt  slightly  and  adhere  to  the  cake.  Cover  with  fudge 
frosting. 

Marshmallow  Roll 

Melt 
I  square  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  add 

4  eggs  and 

j4  cup  sugar  and  beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  over  hot  water  until 
lukewarm.  The  mixture  should  be  light  and  foamy.  Remove 
from  fire,  beat  until  cold,  add 

5^  cup  flour  sifted  with 

14  teaspoon  salt 

5^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and 

Yi  teaspoon  soda ;  fold  over  and  over  and  turn  into  a  dripping  pan 
lined  with  greased  paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  sheet  of  paper  sprinkled  with 
powdered  sugar,  spread  with  marshmallow  filling,  roll  up  like 
jelly  roll,  roll  paper  tightly  around  cake  and  leave  until  cool. 
Spread  with  plain  chocolate  frosting.  When  ready  to  serve 
cut  in  diagonal  slices.  Be  sure  to  have  the  filling  ready  before 
cake  comes  from  the  oven. 

Fruit  Cake  or  Wedding  Cake 

Cut  in  pieces 

1  pound  raisins 
^  cup  citron 

J4  cup  candied  cherries 

J^  cup  candied  pineapple  and  soak  over  night  in 

ys  cup  grapejuice.    Cut  in  pieces 

^  cup  almonds  and  soak  over  night  in 

2  tablespoons  rosewater.     Dissolve 
^  tablespoon  allspice 

}i  tablespoon  cinnamon 

J4  tablespoon  nutmeg  and 

%  teaspoon   clove   in 

2  tablespoons  orange  flower  water  and  let  stand  over  night. 


70  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Cream 
J4  cup  butter,  add 
J4  cup  sugar  and 

2  egg  yolks  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  colored;  add 
Spices  and  orange  flower  water 
%  cup  grape  jelly 

1  teaspoon  melted  chocolate 

2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff  and  a  portion  of 

I  cup  flour  browned  in  the  oven  and  sifted.    Beat,  add  fruit  rolled 

in  remainder  of  the  flour,  almonds,  and 
I  cup   pecan  meats.     Mix   well,   pour   into  a  well  greased  pan, 

place  in  a  larger  pan  of  boiling  water,  cover  with  greased 

paper  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  2  hours.     Spread  cake 

with 
Almond  paste  moistened  with  white  of  tgg  and  when  this  is  firm, 

frost  and  decorate  as  desired. 

Macaroons 

Break 
5^  pound  almond  paste  into  small  pieces  and  mix  with  the  hand, 
adding  gradually 

1  scant  cup  of  sugar  and 

4  tgg  whites,  which  should  be  a  scant  half  cup.    When  perfectly 

blended  stir  in 
Yz  cup  powdered  sugar.    Shape  with  pastry  bag  and  plain  tube  on 

tin  sheets  covered  with  thin  paper,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Remove   from  oven,   invert  paper  and  macaroons,   and  wet 

paper  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water,  when  macaroons 

may  be  easily  removed. 
This  recipe  should  make  2  dozen  macaroons. 

Fudge  Squares 

Melt 

2  squares  chocolate,  over  hot  water,  add 

y2  cup  butter,  stir  until  butter  melts  and  set  aside. 
Beat 

3  eggs,  adding  gradually 

I  cup  sugar.     Sift  together 

^  cup  bread  flour  with 

%  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 

J^  teaspoon  salt.    Add  to  eggs  with 

I  cup  chopped  walnuts  and 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  then  add  chocolate  mixture.    Spread  in  shallow 

10x15  pans,  bake  about  ten  minutes  and  cut  in  squares  while 
warm. 

Walnut  Bars 
Beat  until  light 

2  eggs,  add  gradually 

I  cup  sifted  brown  sugar  and  beat  again.    Then  add 
I  cup  chopped  nut  meats 
I  cup  chopped  stoned  dates 

5  tablespoons  flour  sifted  with 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  71 

J^  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 

Few  grains  salt.     Bake  in  a  greased  pan  7  by  10  inches.     When 

cool  sprinkle  with 
Powdered  sugar  and  cut  in  bars  one  inch  wide  and  two  inches  long. 

Hermits  with  Cake  Crumbs 

Work  until  creamy 
^3   cup  shortening;  add  slowly 
I  cup  brown  sugar 
I  cup  molasses  and 

4  beaten  eggs.     Beat  mixture  thoroughly,  then  add 
I  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
I  tablespoon  cold  water.     Sift  together 

3  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  cinnamon 
I  teaspoon  allspice 

I  teaspoon  mace 

^2  teaspoon  clove 

Ij^  teaspoons  salt  and  add  alternately  with 

5^  cup  milk.    Then  add 

3  cups  fine  dry  cake  crumbs 

}i  cup  citron  and  orange  peel  cut  in  fine  strips  and 
}i  cup  currants  or  raisins.  Mix  well.   Spread  in  4  greased  dripping 
pans  one-fourth  inch  thick,  bake  and  cut  in  rectangles. 

FROSTINGS 

The  favorite  frosting  on  loaf  and  layer  cakes  is  a  boiled 
frosting,  light  and  fluffy,  beaten  by  hand  or  an  electric  mixer. 
This  may  be  piled  irregularly  on  top  of  the  cakes. 

Sometimes  it  is  smoothed  and  covered  with  a  thin  layer  of 
melted  bitter  chocolate,  or  with  boiled  chocolate  frosting,  or 
it  is  decorated  in  the  different  ways  already  mentioned. 

Different  cakes  which  are  covered  with  the  same  frosting 
may  be  distinguished  by  a  different  kind  of  scroll  on  the 
frosting,  made  with  the  handle  of  a  knife  as  soon  as  frosting 
is  put  on  the  cake. 

Japanese  Frosting 
Work  until  very  creamy 

%  cup  butter,  add  slowly  while  beating 

1  cup  confectioners'  sugar.    Beat 

4  egg  whites  until  stiff,  beat  in  gradually 

2  cups  confectioners'  sugar;  combine  mixtures,  add 

^2  teaspoon  vanilla  and  more  sugar  if  needed.     Use  for  a  rough 
frosting  or  for  decorating  cakes  as  desired. 


72  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Chocolate  Japanese  Frosting 

6  squares  chocolate;  melt  over  hot  water  and  add  slowly  to  Japa- 
nese frosting. 

Boiled  Frosting 

1  to  2  cups  sugar,  put  in  saucepan  with 
5^  cup  water  and  boil.     Beat 

2  egg  whites  until  very  stiff,  add  gradually  and  one  at  a  time  5 

tablespoons  of  the  boiling  syrup,  beating  constantly.  When 
syrup  registers  240  degrees  on  the  thermometer  or  it  spins  a 
very  long  thread,  remove  from  fire,  add  gradually  to  the  egg 
whites,  beating  constantly;  add 

I  teaspoon  flavor  and  use  as  desired.  If  not  stiff  enough  to  hold 
its  shape,  place  over  hot  water  and  fold  over  and  over  until 
mixture  begins  to  get  sugary  on  the  inside  of  the  bowl,  then 
remove  from  fire  and  fold  over  and  over  until  cold. 

Cover  with  a  damp  cloth  and  use  at  any  time  during  the  day.  If 
any  is  left  over  it  may  be  used  the  next  day  for  chocolate 
frosting. 

Marshmallow  Frosting 

Add  to 
Boiled  frosting  while  still  warm 
24  marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fold  over  and  over  until 

stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 

Maple  Frosting 

Use  maple  flavor  in  boiled  frosting  or  make  frosting  with  maple 
sugar  in  place  of  granulated  sugar. 

Chocolate  Frosting 

Add  to  boiled  frosting  enough  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water 
to  give  the  desired  color  and  flavor. 

Boiled  Frosting  with  Electric  Beater 

Put  in  saucepan 

3  cups  water  add 

8  cups  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 

Put  in  beater 
i^  cups  egg  whites  and  begin  beating.    Add  to  syrup 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  to  228  degrees  F.    Pour  over 

egg  whites,  which  should  be  very  stiff.    Beat  until  very  light. 

Nut  or  Fruit  Frosting 

To  boiled  frosting  add  chopped  nuts  of  any  kind,  desiccated  cocoa- 
nut  or  figs,  dates  or  raisins,  or  pounded  macaroons,  alone  or  in  com- 
bination; 


CAKES  AND  CAKE  MAKING  73 

Pink  Frosting 

To  boiled  frosting  add  rose  color  paste  and  flavor  with  raspberry 
extract. 

Caramel  Frosting 

Use  all  brown  sugar  or  part  brown  sugar  and  part  white  sugar  in 
making  boiled  frosting. 

Coffee  Frosting 

1  cup  sugar 

5^  cup  brown  sugar 
y2  cup  coffee  infusion 

2  egg  whites 

J^  teaspoon  vanilla 
Few  grains  salt 
Make  like  boiled  frosting. 

Fudge  Frosting 

Melt 
2  squares  chocolate  over  hot  water.     Add 
I  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour  and 

Few  grains  salt  mixed  together.    When  smooth  add 
%  cup  milk  slowly.     Cook  until  it  spins  a  thread  one  inch  long. 
Add 

2  tablespoons  butter  and 

y^  teaspoon  vanilla,  cool,  beat  until  of  the  right  consistency  to 
spread  without  running  and  pour  over  cake.  If  frosting  be- 
comes too  thick  set  the  pait  of  frosting  over  hot  water  and 
stir  until  frosting  softens  and  then  pour  over  the  cake. 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Lessons  in  Cooking,  through  Preparation  of  Meals,  Robinson  and 
Hammel,  $2.00. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  $2.50. 

A  New  Book  of  Cookery,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  $2.50. 

Paul  Richards'  Pastry  Book,  Paul  Richards,  $2.50. 

Boston  Cook  Book,  Mrs.  Mary  J.  Lincoln,  $2.25. 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving,  Janet  McKenzie  Hill,  $3.00. 

Choosing  Oven  Temperatures,  Minna  C.  Denton,  in  The  Journal 
of  Home  Economics,  December,  1920. 

The  Candy  Cook  Book,  Alice  Bradley,  $1.75. 

Cake  Lesson,  Alice  Bradley,  in  Woman's  Home  Companion,  Jan- 
uary, 1920. 

Frostings,  Alice  Bradley,  in  Woman's  Home  Companion,  March, 
1920. 

(The  books  in  the  above  list  may  be  borrowed,  one  at  a  time,  by 
Members  of  the  School.) 


74  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

IV 
Cakes  and  Cake  Making 

1.  What  experience  have  you  had  in  making  fine  cakes? 

2.  (a)  Do  your  cakes  ever  crack  open  in  the  middle? 

Why? 

(b)  Do  they  ever  overflow  the  tin  when  baking ?  Why? 

(c)  How  may  you  be  reasonably  certain  of  an  even 

surface  on  your  cake? 

3.  (a)  What  kind  of  an  oven  have  you,  and  how  do  you 

regulate  the  baking  of  cake? 

(b)  When  is  it  safe  to  turn  a  cake  in  the  oven? 

(c)  What  test  do  you  use  to  determine  when  cake  is 

sufficiently  baked? 

4.  (a)  Are  you  successful  in  making  boiled  frosting? 
(b)   What  do  you  do  if  frosting  is  too  stiff  or  too  soft? 

5.  Have  you  or  can  you  decorate  cakes  effectively?    Send 

in  several  designs  for  criticism. 

6.  (a)   Can  you  successfully  make  a  paper  tube  for  use 

with  ornamental  frosting? 
(b)   Which  do  you  find  works  to  best  advantage,  a 
cloth  pastry  bag  and  tubes  or  paper  tubes? 

7.  (a)  Estimate  the  cost  of  making  and  frosting  one  of 

the   cakes   in   this   lesson,    including   overhead, 
time,  wrapping,  et  cetera. 

(b)  What  is  the  size  of  the  cake? 

(c)  What  should  be  the  selHng  price  of  the  cake?  Send 

all  data,  using  the  form  given  on  page  48. 

8.  (a)  What  are  the  most  popular  cakes  for  sale  or  that 

are  served  in  your  neighborhood  ? 
(b)  Are  there  plenty  of  opportunities  for  purchasing 
fine  cakes,  or  do  you  think  there  may  be  an 
opening  for  you  ? 

9.  Suggest  one  or  more  cakes  suitable  to  serve  for  an 

afternoon  tea,  with  recipe  for  same. 
10.     Are  there  any  questions  about  the  making  of  cake  or 
frosting  that  you  would  like  to  ask  us? 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
V 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  V 


CANDY  MAKING 

OPPORTUNITY  FOR  HOME  CANDY  MAKING;  EQUIPMENT;  PUR- 
CHASING supplies;  profit;  using  the  scraps;  packing  for 
delivery;  best  sellers;  fudges;  fondant  and  its  uses; 
caramels;  peanut  brittle;  Turkish  paste;  butterscotch; 
chocolates;  favors;  nuts. 

THE  consumption  of  candy  in  the  United  States  has 
increased  greatly  in  the  past  few  years.  The  most 
conservative  estimate  places  it  at  13  pounds  per 
person  for  the  year  at  an  average  cost  of  75c  a  pound.  More 
candy  is  purchased  in  the  winter  than  in  the  summer.  In  the 
hope  of  getting  part  of  the  profits  on  such  a  business,  many 
women  have  started  to  make  candy  in  their  own  homes,  and 
have  quickly  built  up  a  business  as  large  as  they  could  handle. 
One  woman,  after  eight  years,  is  supplying  candy  to  120 
retail  stores,  and  at  Easter  sold  30,000  Easter  eggs.  Another 
woman,  one  Christmas,  refused  orders  for  4,000  pounds  of 
candy.  A  woman  whose  husband  takes  care  of  the  sales, 
chiefly  to  workers  in  offices  and  in  banks,  has  been  able  to 
purchase  a  seven-passenger  car  to  use  in  deliveries. 

Equipment 

The  equipment  required  in  the  beginning  is  not  expensive. 

The  following  articles  will  be  found  sufficient  at  first : 

A  good  reliable  thermometer,  at  least  12  inches  long  and 

one  that  registers  up  to  420  degrees  Fahrenheit.    This 

costs  about  $2.50.    A  smaller  one  may  be  used,  but  is 

harder  to  read. 

75 


76  .  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

A  set  of  scales 

Measuring  cups  and  quart  measure 

Spatula,  23^  inches  wide  and  6  inches  long 

For  large  batches,  spade  7  inches  wide  with  handle 
2>^  feet  long 

Case  knife 

A  long  sharp  knife 

Wooden  spoon 

Tablespoons 

Teaspoons 

Saucepans  of  agate,  aluminum  or  copper  with  straight 
sides  and  smooth  bottom 

Double  boiler 

Caramel  pans,  10x13  inches  square 

Mint  dropper 

Bonbon  dippers  may  be  purchased  or  fashioned  at  home 
from  a  piece  of  No.  14  wire.  They  should  be  6  inches 
long  and  the  open  bowl  of  dipper  ^  of  an  inch  across 

Iron  bars  are  convenient  to  have  and  may  be  bought  at 
a  blacksmith's  shop  at  so  much  a  pound.  They  should 
be  ^  of  an  inch  square  and  as  long  as  your  table  is 
wide.  The  opening  between  may  be  made  of  any 
size,  and  candy  may  thus  be' cooled  on  the  table  with- 
out the  use  of  a  pan 

A  large  marble  slab  or  table,  a  porceliron  table  or  a  zinc 
table  are  desirable  to  have,  but  a  large  enamel  tray, 
or  a  large  platter  will  be  sufficient  to  start  with,  and 
as  the  business  grows  you  can  get  what  you  need.  Do 
not  stock  up  with  unnecessary  equipment. 
As  your  business  grows  you  will  probably  need 

Molds  of  plaster  to  make  impression  in  starch,  for  shap- 
ing centres  of  chocolates 

Starch  trays,  2  feet  square 

Batch  warmer,  for  pulled  candies. 


CANDY  MAKING  77 

The  Thermometer 

When  using  the  thermometer  be  sure  each  time  to  place  it 
in  a  saucepan  of  water  and  bring  to  the  boiHng  point  to 
see  if  it  registers  212  degrees  F.  when  the  water  boils. 

If  your  thermometers  register  210  (iegrees  F.  at  boiling 
point,  your  candy  has  to  be  cooked  2  degrees  less  than  the 
degree  given  in  your  recipe.  If  the  boiling  point  registers 
higher  than  212  degrees  cook  your  candy  to  a  higher  tem- 
perature. If  tested  each  time  there  is  no  danger  of  spoiling 
your  batch  of  candy. 

Be  sure  that  the  size  of  the  pan  is  adapted  to  the  amount 
of  candy  that  is  to  be  cooked,  and  that  the  bulb  of  the  ther- 
mometer is  covered  by  the  mixture  in  the  saucepan,  other- 
wise you  will  not  get  a  correct  registration. 

When  cooking  in  an  aluminum  saucepan,  remove  it  from 
the  fire  when  the  thermometer  registers  2  degrees  below  the 
temperature  to  which  the  candy  is  to  be  cooked,  as  aluminum 
holds  the  heat  and  candy  will  finish  cooking  after  being  taken 
from  the  stove.  Remove  thermometer  when  candy  is  fin- 
ished and  place  in  boiling  water.  When  not  using  keep  hung 
up  to  prevent  breakage. 

Where  and  What  to  Buy 

Get  in  touch  with  a  reliable  dealer  in  confectioners'  sup- 
plies. There  are  several  in  every  large  city.  They  can  fur- 
nish special  articles  of  equipment,  flavoring  oils,  colors, 
coating  chocolate,  nuts,  almond  paste,  glucose  and  other  sup- 
plies, and  the  special  kinds  of  paper,  as  rice  paper,  chocolate 
dipping  paper,  and  wax  paper.  One  woman  usually  has 
a  standing  order  for  600  pounds  of  coating  chocolate  weekly  \ 

Buy  sugar  by  the  hundred-pound  bag"  or  by  the  barrel, 
which  holds  between  300  and  400  pounds. 


78  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Buy  corn  syrup  in  No.  lo  cans,  by  the  case,  or  use  glucose, 
which  comes  in  small  barrels  or  tubs.  Use  ^ -pound  glucose, 
to  replace  i  cup  corn  syrup  called  for  in  our  recipes.  It  is 
usually  removed  from  the  container  with  the  hand  which 
is  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Before  taking  out  the  glucose, 
place  on  your  scales  the  saucepan  that  you  are  to  use  and 
note  the  weight.  Then  add  the  glucose,  weighing  kettle, 
glucose  and  all.  The  difference  in  weight  indicates  the 
amount  of  glucose  added,  and  should  be  the  same  as  the 
amount  called  for  in  the  recipe,  or  as  suggested  above,  J^ 
pound  for  each  cup  called  for.  This  is  added  to  give  to 
candies  the  proper  texture,  and  keep  them  from  becoming 
*'grainy."    White  corn  syrup  is  best. 

Purchase  oils  for  flavoring.  They  come  in  i -pound  con- 
tainers. Only  a  few  drops  are  required  for  i  pound  of 
fondant  or  other  candy. 

Buy  vanilla  by  the  quart  or  gallon.  Use  a  first  quality 
vanilla,  not  vanillin,  in  high-class  candies. 

Nuts  may  be  purchased  out  of  the  shell.  Sometimes,  how- 
ever, the  shelled  nuts  are  of  inferior  grade,  and  it  may  be 
wiser  to  purchase  nuts  in  the  shell,  and  shell  them  yourself. 

Profit  in  Candy  Making 

Estimate  the  approximate  cost  of  making  the  mixture 
which  you  plan  to  sell,  the  length  of  time  required  to  make 
and  pack  the  candies,  the  cost  of  paper,  individual  paper  cups 
for  holding  bonbons  and  chocolates  if  you  use  them,  and  the 
cost  of  the  candy  boxes.  When  you  estimate  the  cost  of 
your  time,  materials  and  boxes,  you  will  find  there  is  a 
good  profit  in  candy  making.  Sixty  to  ninety  pounds  of 
fudge  a  day  can  be  made  by  one  woman  and  a  strong  assist- 
ant. 

Many  women  are  able  to  get  from  85c  to  $1.50  for  almost 
every  pound  of  candy  they  make. 


CANDY  MAKING  79 

The  following  figures  will  serve  as  an  example  of  the  profit 
on  seventy  pounds: 

FUDGE 

Unit  Total 

To  Make   i   lb.            To  Make  70  lbs.             Cost  Cost 

Margarine,  i  tablespoon 6oT=i^  lb $0.28  lb.  $0.53 

Sugar,    2   cups    (i    lb.) I2oc=6o  lb 08  lb.  4.80 

Milk,    3/4   cup 45c=ii^  qt 17 qt.  1.92 

Chocolate,  2  squares  (J^  lb.)  120  oz.=75^  lb 44  lb.  3.30 

Vanilla,  i  teaspoon 6ot=2oT=iJ4c 3.00  qt.  .95 

Boxes,   I    60 05  ea.  3.00 

Overhead — 

Making,    i    day 2.00 

Packing,  i  day 2.00  4.00 


Cost    $0.22  lb.      $18.50 

Selling  price  85  lb.        59.50 

Difference    63  41.00 

When  70  pounds  of  fudge  a  day  are  made  and  sold  for  85c 
a  pound  at  an  apparent  profit  of  $41.00,  it  looks  like  a  lot 
of  money.  If  two  people  spend  all  one  day  making  it,  and 
another  day  packing,  and  someone  else  is  spending  two  days 
taking  orders  and  delivering  the  candy,  the  $41.00  divided 
by  6  days'  work  means  $6.83  per  day  per  person,  and  a  good 
wage. 

If  all  your  candy  is  sold  to  dealers  to  be  resold,  the  $10.00 
which  we  have  here  figured  for  taking  orders  and  delivering 
the  fudge  may  be  their  profit:  that  is,  they  can  pay  you 
67^^  cents,  or  maybe  65  cents  a  pound  and  make  a  profit  of 
25%  to  30%  selling  it  at  85  cents,  leaving  you  a  profit  of 
about  50%. 

Other  candies  can  be  figured  in  the  same  way,  and  one 
should  know  just  how  one  stands  financially  every  day,  or  at 
least  every  week. 

Some  home  candy  makers  work  three  days  a  week  making 
candy,  and  spend  the  remainder  of  the  week  packing  it  in 
boxes.  Others  keep  assistants  busy  most  of  the  time  cutting 
up  and  packing  for  market. 


80  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

With  sufficient  room  and  equipment,  and  a  force  consist- 
ing of  the  woman  in  charge,  who  makes  some  of  the  can- 
dies, two  other  candy  makers,  two  chocolate  dippers,  two 
packers,  and  a  man  who  comes  when  needed  to  pack  and  nail 
up  the  wooden  cases,  from  700  pounds  to  1,000  pounds  a 
week  of  high-class  homemade  candies  can  be  turned  out. 

Chocolates  can  be  made  up  ahead;  other  candies  are  best 
when  freshly  made. 

Using  the  Scraps 

Broken  pieces  of  candy,  crumbly  fudges,  trimmed  off  edges 
of  candy,  and  scraps  of  all  kinds  should  be  saved  in  a  sort  of 
"stock  kettle."  When  a  sufficient  amount  accumulates,  weigh 
it.  For  each  pound  add  ^  cup  milk  or  water  and  two  ounces 
of  chocolate,  or  less,  according  to  the  amount  of  chocolate  in 
the  scrap.  Cook  and  finish  like  fudge.  Sell  at  a  reasonable 
price  under  a  particular  name  as  Belgian  Fudge. 

Waste  nothing — material,  paper,  string,  boxes  or  time — 
and  you  will  surely  be  able  to  clear  a  good  profit  on  home- 
made candy. 

Packing  and  Delivery 

Boxes  can  be  purchased  from  2^  cents  up.  If  you  have 
an  office  trade,  the  cheap  box  is  acceptable  because  as  soon  as 
emptied  it  goes  into  the  waste  basket.  You  will  need  better 
boxes  for  the  home  trade.  These  will  cost  from  5  cents 
to  10  cents  each  for  the  half-pound  size,  and  from  8  cents 
to  12  cents  for  the  pound  size.  Experiment  with  sizes 
until  you  have  those  just  large  enough  to  hold  one-half  or 
one  pound  of  your  own  kinds  of  candy,  then  have  the 
boxes  made  to  order  with  your  special  name  and  trade-mark 
on  the  cover. 

One  woman  who  has  built  up  a  very  large  business  has 
always  used  simple,  inexpensive  boxes,  preferring  to  put  her 


CANDY  MAKING  81 

money  into  first-class  material  instead  of  into  fancy  paper, 
ribbon  and  cardboard. 

Unique  arrangements  for  packing,  such  as  decorated  tin 
boxes,  boxes  representing  bales  of  cotton,  and  other  unusual 
styles,  have  proved  profitable  to  some  makers. 

Paraffin  paper  should  be  used  to  line  each  candy  box,  and 
may  be  used  to  wrap  the  boxes.  A  paper  seal  may  fasten 
the  wrapper. 

For  Christmas  trade  a  red  ribbon  may  be  tied  around  the 
box  under  the  paper. 

Boxes  must  be  wrapped  again  in  plain  white  paper  for 
delivery. 

For  mailing,  the  box  should  be  wrapped  again  in  corru- 
gated paper  and  then  in  strong  wrapping  paper,  and  firmly 
tied  with  string.  Make  every  effort  to  protect  the  candy  from 
being  broken  when  received. 

Where  many  boxes  go  to  one  address  they  are  packed  in 
wooden  cases  and  shipped  by  express. 

Paraffin  Paper 

Paraffin  paper  comes  in  several  different  weights  and  sizes. 
It  can  be  cut  to  order  to  fit  candy  boxes,  and  to  wrap  cara- 
mels, lollypops,  etc.  It  is  sold  by  the  ream  or  by  the  pack- 
age, usually  by  the  concern  from  which  you  get  your  candy 
boxes. 

Buy  the  quality  and  size  that  you  can  use  without  waste. 

Marketing  Your  Candy 

Market  your  things  neatly  and  attractively  and  be  sure 
your  profit  is  right  from  the  start,  so  that  you  will  not  have 
to  raise  the  price. 

You  will  find  you  will  have  no  trouble  to  market  your 
goods  if  quality  is  your  watchword. 


82  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

If  your  business  grows  so  fast  that  you  have  to  have 
assistants  to  help  you  fill  your  orders,  get  people  who  will 
do  the  work  just  as  you  have  done  it;  that  is,  do  not  allow 
your  candy  to  deteriorate  in  the  slightest  degree  because  you 
are  not  doing  it  all  yourself. 

The  motto  of  the  efficient  business  person,  whether  man 
or  woman,  is  "Do  not  do  anything  that  you  can  get  some- 
body else  to  do."  There  is  more  money  in  the  management 
of  a  number  of  people  than  in  doing  everything  yourself, 
but  you  must  be  very  careful  that  your  quality  does  not 
suffer  in  any  way  as  your  trade  increases. 

Best  Sellers 

There  are  many  kinds  of  candy  that  should  not  be  at- 
tempted by  the  inexperienced  candy  maker,  but  the  follow- 
ing are  made  successfully  in  the  home : 

Assorted  chocolates 

Assorted  fudges 

Cream  mints 

Cream  caramels 

Bonbons 

Peanut  brittle 

Corn  balls 

Butterscotch  in  different  forms 

Stuifed  dried  fruits 

Salted  nuts 

Glace  nuts  and  fruits 

One  woman  who  is  making  a  great  success  of  the  candy 
business  tells  in  these  words  what  kinds  of  candies  people 
like  best. 

"Men's  taste  is  quite  different  from  that  of  women.  Men 
do  not  care  so  much  for  the  rich,  creamy  candies  which 


CANDY  MAKING  83 

women  prefer.  They  like  something  with  more  'body'  to  it ; 
something  they  can  really  chew  on.  They  are  fond  of  choco- 
late, but  they  want  the  center  to  be  nuts,  or  nougat,  or  cara- 
mels, or  molasses.  And  they  like  something  that  has  salt 
in  it.'' 

Enlarging  the  Recipe 

Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  enlarge  a  recipe  too  much, 
as  often  the  quality  of  a  large  batch  of  candy  is  not  as  good 
as  of  a  smaller  one,  and  it  is  more  difficult  to  handle. 

When  wholesalers  wish  to  put  out  a  new  candy,  and  sam- 
ples are  to  be  sent  out,  a  small  batch  is  made,  and  by  hand 
rather  than  by  machinery. 

Always  boil  to  the  same  degree  on  the  thermometer, 
whether  the  batch  be  large  or  small. 

FUDGE  AND  FONDANT 

Fudges  of  different  kinds  are  easily  made,  and  when  soft, 
fine  grained  and  creamy,  are  good  sellers.  A  good  standard 
recipe  is  Chocolate  Fudge,  given  below.  For  the  trade,  the 
recipe  may  be  increased  up  to  about  lo  pounds  in  a  batch. 
More  than  this  is  too  much  to  be  worked  by  hand. 

Sour  cream  instead  of  milk  makes  a  particularly  good 
fudge. 

Part  water  and  part  condensed  milk  may  be  used  for 
fudge. 

Fudges  should  be  worked  like  fondants.  They  should  be 
cooled  before  being  worked  in  order  to  secure  a  rich,  creamy 
consistency.  If  fudge  becomes  too  hard  to  work  easily  a 
damp  cloth  may  be  laid  over  it  for  a  few  minutes  to  soften  it. 

Fudge  may  be  put  into  a  stone  crock  the  same  as  fondant, 
after  being  worked  until  creamy,  and  can  be  softened  over 
hot  water,  then  molded  and  cut  as  orders  come  in. 


81  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Shape  fudge  between  candy  bars  which  have  been  placed 
upon  a  wooden  table  lined  with  heavy  wax  paper.  Fudge 
cooled  upon  marble  or  in  tin  cools  more  quickly  on  the  top 
and  bottom  than  in  the  center,  and  when  it  is  cut  it  is  apt 
to  crumble. 

To  cut  fudge  use  a  strip  of  wood  with  straight  even  edges 
cut  just  the  width  you  wish  to  have  your  fudge  squares,  say 
i^  inches  wide.  Lay  the  wood  with  the  edge  parallel  with 
the  edge  of  the  fudge  and  cut  fudge  beside  the  ruler  with  a 
sharp  knife. 

When  fudge  is  made  in  large  quantities  glucose  is  often 
added,  but  this  is  not  desirable,  as  it  may  give  your  fudge  a 
chewy  rather  than  a  creamy  consistency. 

Do  not  try  to  make  divinity  fudges  and  nougatines  without 
an  electric  beater,  as  too  much  time  is  required  for  beating, 
and  dampness  affects  the  white  of  Qgg  so  that  it  takes  a  long 
time  for  the  mixture  to  dry  out. 

Chocolate  Fudge 

Melt 

1  tablespoon  butter  and 

2  squares  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add 
2  cups  sugar  and 

^  cup  milk  and  stir  gently  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  then  bring 
to  boiling  point  on  the  fire  and  boil  without  stirring  to  234 
degrees  Fahrenheit,  or  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  tried 
in  cold  water.  Remove  candy  from  fire,  pour  on  damp  marble 
slab,  let  stand  undisturbed  until  cool,  add 

I  teaspoon  vanilla  or 

J4  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  work  with  a  spatula  until  candy  begins 
to  get  sugary.  Turn  immediately  into  a  buttered  pan,  or  be- 
tween bars,  and  mark  in  squares  with  a  knife.  The  pan  or 
space  should  be  about  7  inches  square,  so  that  the  fudge  will 
be  ^  of  an  inch  thick  when  cut. 

Popular  Fudge  Combinations 

Opera  fudges,  especially  with  cherries  and  nuts 
Chocolate  fudge,  plain  and  with  nuts 
Marshmallow  fudge 
Maple  fudge,  with  and  without  nuts 


CANDY  MAKING  85 

Opera  Fudge 

Put  in  saucepan 

2  cups  sugar,  add 

I  cup  heavy  cream,  stir  back  and  forth  until  it  boils,  add 

14  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  to  238  degrees  Fahrenheit, 
stirring  frequently  and  moving  thermometer  about  to  prevent 
burning.  Finish  like  Chocolate  Fudge.  When  it  becomes 
creamy  cover  with  a  damp  cloth  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 

J^  teaspoon  vanilla  or  other  flavoring  and  color  if  desired,  v^rorking 
it  in  well  with  the  hands.  Press  into  shape  and  when  firm 
cut  into  squares.  This  may  be  used  for  centers  for  chocolates 
and  for  centers  and  coating  of  bonbons. 

This  is  a  rich  soft  fudge  made  with  heavy  cream  instead 
of  milk.  It  may  be  colored  and  flavored  in  various  ways. 
This  is  the  candy  on  which  one  young  woman  built  up  a 
candy  business  that  has  been  successful  for  many  years. 

Opera  fudge  may  be  cut  like  other  fudge  or  used  as 
fondant  is  used. 

Opera  Fudge  Variations 

Color  pink,  flavor  with  raspberry,  add  if  desired  l4  cup  blanched 

almonds  cut  in  pieces,  or  shredded  cocoanut 
Color  green,  flavor  with  almond  and  vanilla,  and  add  if  desired  % 

cup  pistachio  nuts  cut  in  pieces 
Color  pale  violet  and  flavor  with   violet 
Color  pale  yellow  and  flavor  with  lemon 
Color  orange  and  flavor  with  orange 
Add  3  tablespoons  candied  cherries  cut  in  pieces,  3  tablespoons 

citron  cut  in  pieces  and  flavor  with  maraschino 
Add  12  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  flavor  with  4  teaspoons  orange 

flower  water 
Add  chopped  almonds,  flavor  with  almond 
Add  chopped  candied  pineapple,  flavor  with  pineapple 
Add  chopped  candied  plums,  flavor  with  lemon 
Add  chopped  candied  ginger 
Add  melted  chocolate  with  or  without  chopped  nuts 

White  Fondant 

Put 

5  cups  sugar  and 

1%  cups  water  in  smooth  saucepan,  place  on  range,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  boiling  point  is  reached.  With  a  damp  cloth  or 
pastry  brush  dipped  in  cold  water,  wash  down  the  sides  of 
the  saucepan  until  every  grain  of  sugar  is  removed.    Add 

l4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  cover  saucepan,  and  allow  candy  to 
steam  for  three  minutes.    Remove  cover,  put  in  thermometer. 


86  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

and  tx)il  rapidly  until  candy  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in 
cold   water,  or   until   thermometer   registers   238    degrees   F. 

While  syrup  is  cooking  wipe  marble  slab  or  agate  tray  with  a 
damp  cloth.  When  syrup  is  ready,  pour  gently  on  the  slab. 
Do  not  allow  the  last  of  it  to  drip  out  over  what  has  been 
poured  on  the  slab,  and  never  scrape  out  the  kettle  on  the  first 
mixture.    Do  not  disturb  the  syrup  in  any  way  until  it  is  cold. 

Then  with  a  broad  spatula  scrape  and  turn  the  syrup  toward  the 
center,  and  continue  turning  it  over  and  over,  working  from 
the  edges  of  the  mass.  Each  time  that  the  syrup  is  turned 
over,  scrape  clean  and  turn  the  spatula  up  and  over  the  mass, 
occasionally  scraping  mixture  from  the  spatula  with  a  case 
knife.     It  will  soon  become  white  and  creamy. 

Knead  with  the  hands  until  perfectly  smooth,  cover  with  a  cloth 
wrung  out  of  cold  water,  and  leave  for  half  an  hour. 

Cut  in  pieces  and  put  into  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  a  wet  cloth 
and  a  cover.  It  is  better  to  let  it  remain  two  or  three  days 
before  using,  and  it  may  be  kept  for  months  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

This  fondant  may  be  used  for  centers  of  bonbons  and  chocolates 
for  outside  coatings  of  bonbons  or  for  mints. 

Experiment  first  with  the  recipe  for  White  Fondant  given 
above.  Four  times  this  recipe  or  10  pounds  of  sugar  may 
be  used  for  a  batch  after  some  experience.  One-half  tea- 
spoon glycerine  is  sometimes  added  to  fondant  to  give  a  fine 
gloss  for  coating  bonbons. 

One-third  cup  corn  syrup  put  in  before  cooking,  or  i 
egg  white  beaten  stiff  and  added  when  syrup  is  cold,  are 
often  used  in  fondant  for  centers. 


Cream  Mints 

These  are  easily  made  from  fondant,  and  are  very  satisfac- 
tory. 

Put  plain  fondant  in  upper  part  of  double  boiler,  and  melt 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  after  fondant  begins  to 
soften.  Thin  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water  or  simple 
syrup  if  necessary.  Flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  any  oil, 
such  as  mint,  lime,  clove  or  cinnamon. 

When  you  find  which  kind  of  mint  your  customers  like 
best,  you  will,  of  course,  supply  them  with  that  particular 


CANDY  MAKING  87 

variety.  Shape  on  paraffin  paper  or  in  rubber  molds,  using 
a  heated  confectioner's  funnel,  or  drop  from  tip  of  spoon. 
They  may  be  crystallized. 

Crystal  Syrup 
Put  in  saucepan 

10  cups  sugar  and 

iK  quarts  water.  Stir  until  dissolved,  bring  to  boiling  point  and 
keep  sides  of  pan  washed  down  with  pastry  brush  to  remove 
crystals.  At  2i6*  F.,  pour  some  of  the  hot  syrup  into  grad- 
uated tube  and  if  the  Beaume  scale  floats  at  desired  degree, 
the  syrup  is  ready.  For  a  fine  crystal  the  syrup  should  register 
32°  on  this  Beaume  scale  and  34°  for  a  coarse  crystal.  Pour 
syrup  from  graduate  tube  back  in  syrup  and  bring  to  the  boil 
again  because  the  least  disturbance  spoils  the  syrup.  Let 
syrup  stand  until  perfectly  cold.     Roll  jelly  candies  such  as 

Gum  drops  or  Turkish  paste  in  granulated  sugar.  Place  candies 
on  trays  in  crystal  pans,  and  pour  over  them  syrup  to  cover. 
Let  stand  several  hours  or  over  night,  then  lift  candies  out  on 
tray  and  let  dry.  Syrup  may  be  reheated  and  used  over  again 
if  more  water  is  added  and  syrup  tested  as  before. 

Bonbons 

These  are  easily  made,  but  soon  grow  hard  and  show 
white  spots  so  that  they  must  be  made  fresh  more  often  than 
some  of  the  other  candies. 

Fondant  is  the  base,  and  with  nuts  and  candied  fruits, 
and  opera,  coffee  or  maple  fondant,  a  large  assortment  of 
bonbons  can  be  made.  They  are  more  frequently  used  in 
making  up  attractive  boxes  than  to  be  sold  by  themselves. 

Centers  for  bonbons  may  be  shaped  by  hand  or  in  starch 
molds.  The  former  are  best  as  they  stay  soft,  and  creamy 
a  longer  time.  With  the  hands  fondant  may  be  shaped  in 
cones,  balls,  short  strips,  oval,  crescent,  and  mint. 

Bonbon  Dipping 

For  bonbon  dipping  a  candy  dipper  or  a  two-tined  fork, 
and  two  small  saucepans,  one  fitting  inside  the  other,  is  all 
the  equipment  that  is  necessary.  A  double  boiler  may  be 
used,  but  experience  shows  that  the  gloss  of  the  fondant  for 


88  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

the  coating  of  bonbons  can  be  better  kept  if  only  a  small  por- 
tion of  fondant  is  melted  at  a  time. 

If  fondant  seems  too  thick  to  dip  in,  thin  very  carefully 
with  cold  water  or  "simple  syrup"  and  be  very  careful  that 
it  does  not  get  too  warm.  A  good  test  is  to  drop  a  little  on 
the  back  of  the  hand,  and  if  it  is  warm,  not  hot,  it  is  usually 
right  for  dipping. 

Simple  Syrup :  Put  in  saucepan,  i  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  water, 
ys  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  and  boil  to  220°  F. 

CARAMELS 

These  are  good  sellers.  They  are  best  made  of  heavy 
cream,  although  light  cream  gives  a  rich  caramel.  They  may 
be  made  of  part  milk  and  part  cream  or  all  milk. 

Milk  caramels  are  rich  enough  if  they  are  to  be  dipped  in 
chocolate. 

In  making  caramels  be  sure  you  have  a  pan  with  a  smooth 
bottom,  with  a  large  surface  exposed  to  the  flame,  and 
the  pan  only  one-third  full  of  mixture  that  it  may  not  boil 
over. 

Stir  gently  but  firmly  and  back  and  forth  rather  than 
around. 

Caramels  should  be  made  in  small  quantities  to  keep  up 
the  quality,  as  they  are  not  as  satisfactory  when  made  in 
large  quantities. 

All  corn  syrup  may  be  used  instead  of  sugar,  but,  of 
course,  will  not  make  as  good  a  caramel. 

Caramels 
Put 

I  cup  sugar 

^  cup  corn  syrup  and 

^2  cup  cream  into  saucepan,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  bring  to 
boiling  point,  and  boil  until  mixture  will  form  a  soft  ball  when 
tried  in  cold  water.  Stir  gently  and  constantly  to  prevent 
burning,  making  the  spoon  reach  all  parts  of  the  saucepan. 


CANDY  MAKING  89 


Do  not  beat,  as  beating  may  cause  the  candy  to  become  gran- 
ular.   As  soon  as  candy  forms  a  soft  ball  add 

^  cup  of  cream.  Boil  again  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water,  add 

^2  cup  cream,  and  boil  until  candy  will  form  a  decidedly  firm  ball 
when  tried  in  cold  water.  The  caramels  when  cold  will  be 
of  the  same  consistency  as  this  firm  ball.  Pour  caramels  into 
a  buttered  pan  or  between  bars  4  by  9  inches.  When  cool 
cut  in  squares,  and  wrap  in  wax  paper.  If  caramel  should  get 
sugary,  return  it  to  kettle,  add  more  cream  and  boil  again. 
If  all  the  cream  is  added  at  once,  caramels  may  be  made  in  a 
shorter  time,  but  they  will  not  be  as  rich  and  creamy. 

Assorted  Caramels 

To  Caramel  Mixture  add  just  before  pouring  into  buttered  pan 

any  of  the   following  combinations : 
I  cup  cocoanut 
I  cup  nut  meats  cut  in  pieces 
Raspberry  extract  and  rose  color  paste 
8  figs  cut  in  pieces 
^  cup  raisins  cut  in  pieces 
16  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces. 
3  squares  melted  chocolate 

3  squares  melted  chocolate  and  i  cup  blanched  almonds 
3  squares  melted  chocolate  and  i  cup  salted  pignolia  nuts 
I  teaspoon  vanilla 


NUT  BRITTLES 

Peanut  brittle  is  a  good  seller  in  cool  weather,  but  will 
grow  sticky  in  warm  or  damp  weather. 

This  is  best  made  in  a  cast  aluminum  or  Scotch  iron  kettle, 
as  there  is  less  danger  of  its  burning. 

In  this  recipe  butter  is  better  than  margarine. 

These  proportions  make  ij4  pounds  of  candy. 

If  large  peanuts  are  used  i^  cups  are  sufficient. 

The  brittle  may  be  poured  out  upon  a  greased  slab  and 
broken  in  pieces,  or  poured  between  bars  and  cut  in  three- 
inch  squares,  which  is  the  better  way  to  market  it  if  you  sell 
it  by  the  box. 

Other  kinds  of  nuts  may  be  used,  though  more  expensive. 


90  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Peanut  Brittle 

Put 

iH  cups  sugar 

y^  cup  corn  syrup  and 

Yz  cup  cold  water  in  iron  kettle,  stir  until  mixture  boils,  cover,  and 
boil  3  minutes.  Remove  cover,  and  boil  to  275  degrees  F. 
Add 

2  tablespoons  butter  and 

2  cups  shelled  raw  Spanish  peanuts  and  stir  constantly  about  10 
minutes  or  less,  or  until  peanuts  are   cooked.     Add 

5^  teaspoon  vanilla  and 

H  tablespoon  soda  dissolved  in 

^  tablespoon  cold  water  and 

J4  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  turn  on  slightly 
buttered  marble  slab  or  agate  tray.  Spread  as  thinly  as  pos- 
sible, and  lift  constantly  while  cooling,  using  a  spatula,  and 
pull  to  distribute  nuts  evenly.  Flatten  with  palm  of  hand  and 
break  or  cut  in  pieces. 

TURKISH  PASTE 

Turkish  paste  is  a  good  seller,  easily  made  at  little  cost, 
and  in  great  variety. 

Agar  agar,  or  Japanese  gelatine,  gives  a  paste  that  breaks 
apart,  while  a  sheet  gelatine  pulls  apart.  Agar  agar  is  for 
sale  at  drug  stores  or  by  wholesale  confectioners. 

Recipe  for  Turkish  Paste 

5^  ounce  agar  agar.    Put  in  saucepan  with 
ij^  cups  boiling  water  and  set  one  side.     Put 

2  cups  sugar  and 

5^  cup  corn  syrup  in  another  saucepan.     Pour 

H  cup  warm  water  over  agar  agar,  stir  until  it  reaches  the  boiling 
point,  remove  from  fire,  stir  until  dissolved,  and  strain  over 
sugar.    Stir  and  cook  mixture  to  220  degrees  Fahrenheit.    Add 

3  drops   oil   of   lime,   or   peppermint,   cinnamon,   clove,   lemon   or 

orange,  and  color  appropriately.    Pour  on  slab  yi  of  an  inch 
thick  between  bars. 
When  firm   cut  in  squares  and   roll   in   confectioners'   sugar. 

BUTTERSCOTCH 

Butterscotch  mixture  can  be  used  in  different  ways  and  is 
always  popular. 


CANDY  MAKING  91 

Butterscotch  Wafers 

In  saucepan  put 
i^  cups  sugar 
j4  cup  corn  syrup  and 
J^  cup  water,  stir  until  dissolved,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  to 

270  degrees  Fahrenheit,  or  until  it  is  brittle  when  tried  in  cold 

water.     Add 
ij4  tablespoons  butter  and 
I  tablespoon  molasses  and  cook  to  280  degrees  Fahrenheit,  or  until 

it  cracks  in  cold  water,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.     Remove 

from  fire,  add 
54  teaspoon  salt  and 
I  teaspoon  vanilla.     Pour  from  saucepan  onto  oiled  marble  slab 

into  wafers  the  size  of  a  coin. 

Scotch  Squares 

'Make 
Butterscotch  Wafer  mixture  and  pour  onto  oiled  marble  slab  be- 
tween candy  bars  placed  in  a  square  to  make  mixture  one- 
fourth  inch  thick.    Mark  while  cooling,  with  sharp  knife,  start- 
ing at  the  outside  as  edges  cool  more  quickly  than  center, 

Scotch  Mallows 
Make 

Butterscotch  Wafer  mixture.     Prepare 

Marshmallow  by  brushing  and  leaving  exposed  to  air  for  sev- 
eral hours,  to  form  a  slight  crust.  Drop  marshmallows,  one 
at  a  time,  bottom  side  up,  into  mixture,  press  down  that  they 
may  become  completely  coated,  lift  with  greased  candy  dipper 
and  put  on  buttered  slab,  bottom  side  down. 

Lolly  Pops 

Make 

Butterscotch  Wafer  mixture,  pour  onto  oiled  marble  slab,  cool 
slighly,  rool  up  like  jelly  roll,  toss  back  and  forth  until  cool 
enough  to  handle,  cut  off  with  scissors  in  pieces  ij4  inches 
long,  insert  stick  in  one  end.  With  palm  of  hand  press  into 
shape.     Wrap  in  wax  paper. 

Sticks  for  lolly  pops  can  be  purchased  in  lots  of  5,000  from  dealers 
in  confectioners'  supplies. 

Cream  Butterscotch  Balls 

In  saucepan  put 
I  cup  white  sugar 
14  cup  brown  sugar 
y3  cup  white  corn  syrup 
5^  cup  butter 
"^  cup  heavy  cream,  stir  until  well  mixed,  bring  to  boiling  point, 

stir  constantly  back  and  forth,  and  boil  like  caramels  to  a  firm 

ball.     Remove  from  fire,  add 


92  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

I  teaspoon  vanilla,  lemon  or  almond  extract,  pour  into  a  buttered 

pan  and  when  cool  shape  into  small  balls,  and  roll  in  powdered 

sugar. 
^  cup  walnut  or  pecan  nut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces  may  be  added 

when  candy  is  removed  from  the  fire,  or  balls  may  be  rolled 

in  chopped  nut  meats. 

One  woman  supplies  3  or  4  large  stores  with  this  one  candy 

alone.  _^ 

Nougatines 

Nougatines  are  popular,  but  hard  to  beat  without  machin- 
ery if  large  quantities  must  be  made. 

Esmeralda  cream  is  a  variety  of  nougatine  that  is  success- 
fully made  by  an  amateur.  A  sufficient  quantity  to  use  for 
dipping  in  chocolate  can  be  made  by  the  home  candy  maker. 

Recipes  may  be  found  in  The  Candy  Cook  Book. 

Chocolate  Dipping 

Chocolate  candies  are  undoubtedly  the  most  popular  can- 
dies that  are  sold,  but  they  are  difficult  to  make  by  the  ama- 
teur. It  is  said  to  take  a  year  to  become  an  expert  chocolate 
dipper,  so  it  may  be  well  in  the  beginning,  if  you  decide  to 
market  chocolate  candies,  to  hire  a  professional  dipper  for 
that  part  of  the  work,  although  you  may  make  the  centers 
yourself.  While  you  are  learning  to  dip  successfully  you 
could  be  making  hundreds  of  pounds  of  other  candies. 

Chocolates  should  cool  quickly,  but  if  placed  in  the  ice 
chest  they  are  apt  to  gather  moisture.  In  factories  they 
usually  have  ammonia  refrigeration,  and  as  this  is  a  dry  cold 
and  not  a  damp  cold,  more  satisfactory  results  can  be  secured 
than  in  the  home. 

The  room  in  which  the  dipping  is  to  be  done  should  be 
free  from  steam  and  of  an  even  temperature  of  65  degrees 
to  75  degrees  Fahrenheit.  On  a  hot  or  a  rainy  day  chocolate 
dipping  should  not  be  attempted  at  home. 

Break  not  less  than  four  pounds  coating  chocolate  in 
pieces,  and  put  into  a  double  boiler  or  saucepan  over  hot 
water.    The  two  pans  should  fit  closely,  that  the  steam  may 


CANDY  MAKING  93 

not  escape.  Set  both  pans  over  the  fire  until  water  comes 
to  boiling  point  in  the  lower  pan.  Remove  from  fire,  and 
stir  until  chocolate  is  melted,  then  remove  dish  from  hot 
water  and  beat  chocolate  gently  until  it  feels  a  little  cooler 
than  the  hand,  or  registers  between  80  degrees  and  85  de- 
grees on  the  thermometer.  This  will  take  from  five  to  twenty 
minutes,  depending  upon  the  temperature  of  the  room  and 
the  amount  of  chocolate  used.  At  no  time  should  tem- 
perature of  chocolate  go  above  125  degrees  or  below  80 
degrees  F. 

Drop  a  center  into  melted  chocolate,  with  candy  dipper 
move  it  around  until  well  covered,  then  lift  out,  upside  down, 
draw  across  edge  of  pan  to  remove  excess  chocolate,  and 
place  on  chocolate  dipping  paper  right  side  up. 

Popular  Centres  for  Chocolates 

Cream  mints 
Caramels 
Opera  fudge 
Nuts 

Butterscotch 
Esmeralda  cream 
Apricot  paste 
Fondant 

The  way  in  which  the  chocolate  is  coiled  on  top  of  each 
piece  of  candy  indicates  to  the  initiated  the  kind  of  center 
used. 

Only  "coating  chocolate"  should  be  used  for  dipping. 
There  are  many  kinds  on  the  market  from  which  you  can 
select  the  quality  which  your  customers  prefer. 

Chocolate  Dipping  Paper 

This  may  be  purchased  in  lo-pound  cases  from  dealers  in 
confectioners'  supplies.     It, can  be  used  over  again  many 


94  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

times  to  receive  dipped  chocolates.     Table  oilcloth  is  also 
good. 

Favor  Suggestions 

If  you  can  originate  artistic  and  attractive  favors  made 
from  candies  or  dried  fruits,  or  if  you  can  make  candy  flow- 
ers to  top  off  a  box  of  candy,  or  if  you  can  decorate  mints, 
you  can  take  special  orders  for  them  from  candy  shops, 
women's  exchanges,  or  from  people  who  are  entertaining. 
Some  suggestions  are  given  in  The  Candy  Cook  Book. 

During  one  winter  season  lollypops  with  painted  faces  and 
elaborate  dresses  of  crepe  paper,  or  with  colored  heads  cut 
from  magazines  and  butterfly  bows  of  tulle  or  crepe  paper, 
made  popular  favors. 

Salted  Nuts 

Heat 
^  cup  C(X>king  oil  in  very  small  pan ;  when  hot,  put  in  enough  nuts 

to   cover  bottom   of   pan,   and   stir  until   delicately  browned. 

Remove  with  spoon  or  small  skimmer,  taking  up  as  little  oil  as 

possible.     Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with 
Salt.    Repeat  until  all  are  fried.    Blanched  almonds,  raw  peanuts 

with  skin  removed,  whole  pecans  and  other  nuts  may  be  salted 

in  this  way. 

Spiced  Nuts 

Prepare  salted  nuts,  and  when  sprinkling  with  salt  sprinkle  also 
with  powdered  clove,  powdered  cinnamon  or  a  mixture  of 
spices.     Use  instead  of  salted  nuts. 

Sugared  Peanuts 

Remove  brown  skins  from 
I  cup  shelled  roasted  peanuts,  put  nuts  in  a  saucepan  and  keep 

in  a  warm  place.  Put 
I  cup  sugar  and 
]/2  cup  water  in  another  saucepan,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and 
boil  without  stirring  to  238  degrees  Fahrenheit,  or  until  candy 
forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Hold  pan  of  pea- 
nuts several  inches  above  the  fire  and  shake  vigorously  while 
slowly  pouring  syrup  over  the  nuts.  Occasionally  stir  the 
nuts,  then  add  remaining  syrup  drop  by  drop  until  all  is  used. 


CANDY  MAKING  95 

Nuts  should  be  evenly  covered  with  a  coating  of  sugar.  If 
coating  is  not  thick  enough,  more  sugar  and  water  may  be 
boiled  and  added  as  before.  (One  cup  almonds,  blanched  or 
not  as  desired,  may  be  used  instead  of  peanuts.) 

If  you  have  had  little  or  no  experience  in  candy  making 

but  wish  to  specialize  in  this  line  it  will  be  well  for  you  to 

study  The  Candy  Cook  Book  carefully,  then  experiment  with 

the  recipes  therein  in  about  this  order,  which  is  the  order  in 

which  we  give  lessons  in  candy  making  at  Miss  Farmer's 

School  of  Cookery. 

Sour  Cream  Fudge  Scotch  Kisses 

Opera  Fudge  Butterscotch  Wafers 

Divinity  Fudge  Toffee 

Penuche  Soft  Butterscotch 

Fondant  Bonbon  Dipping 

Uncooked  Fudge  Cream  Mints 

Vanilla  Caramels  Chocolate  Dipping 

Esmeralda  Cream  Candy  Flowers 

Marshmallows  Barley  Sugar 

Turkish  Paste  Spun  Sugar 

Chocolate  Caramels  Crystal  Cups 

Peanut  Brittle  Cocoanut  Cakes 
Glace  Nuts  and  Fruits 

There  are  many  things  in  the  candy  business  that  you 
must  learn  from  experience.  It  is  impossible  to  cover  every 
point  in  a  lesson  or  in  a  book. 

Try  to  learn  something  every  day  from  your  work,  your 
patrons,  the  people  you  meet  or  from  the  things  you  read. 

Do  not  try  to  market  great  varieties  of  candy  at  first. 
Thoroughly  master  one  kind  at  a  time. 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

The  Candy  Cook  Book,  Alice  Bradley,  $1.75. 

The  Art  of  Home  Candy  Making,  "The  Home  Candy  Makers," 

with  thermometer,  etc.,  $3.75. 
Candies  and  Bonbons  and  How  to  Make  Them,   Marion  Harris 

Neil,  $1.50. 
Candy  Making  Revolutionized,  Mary  Elizabeth  Hall,  $2.00. 
My  Candy  Secrets,  Mary  Elizabeth  Evans,  $5.00. 
Rigby's  Reliable  Candy  Teacher,  W.  O.  Rigby,  $2.00. 
Candy  for  Dessert,  Paul  Richards,  $1.50. 
Confectioners'  Journal,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  $3.00. 


96  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

V 

Candy  Making 

1.  What  experience  have  you  had  in  candy  making? 

2.  Send  us  the  names  and  addresses  of  dealers  in  confec- 

tioners' suppHes  and  in  candy  boxes  in  your  locaHty. 

3.  Have  you  a  candy  thermometer  or  are  you   famiHar 

with  the  use  of  one? 

4.  Have  you  a  broad  spatula,  2^4  inches  by  6  inches,  and  a 

bonbon  dipper?  If  not,  are  you  able  to  get  them  in 
your  town?  You  will  find  them  invaluable  in  many 
other  cooking  operations  beside  candy  making. 

5.  What  kind  of  a  table  or  tray  have  you   for  making 

fondant  and  fudge?  What  will  it  cost  to  purchase 
what  you  may  need? 

6.  Find  out  what  are  the  most  popular  candies  for  sale  in 

your  locality,  and  by  whom  made.  What  prices  are 
charged  for  homemade  candies? 

7.  If  you  propose  to  make  and  sell  candy,  experiment  with 

■  chocolate  fudge,  opera  fudge,  fondant,  mints,  bon- 
bons, peanut  brittle  and  caramels.  Report  as  to  your 
results,  asking  questions  about  anything  that  is  not 
clear.  If  you  wish,  send  us  a  sample  of  each  kind  of 
candy  so  that  we  may  be  able  to  help  you  if  you  have 
any  difficulties,  and  that  we  may  judge  of  the  qual- 
ity of  the  product  that  you  propose  to  market. 

8.  Are  there  any  favors  which  you  have  designed  or  which 

you  make  especially  well?  If  so,  please  describe 
them,  give  their  cost  and  probable  selling  price. 

9.  How  long  does  it  take  you  to  make  one  rule  of  butter- 

scotch? How  many  marshmallows  can  you  dip  in 
it?  Estimate  the  total  cost,  including  materials,  over- 
head, etc.  What  is  the  selling  price?  What  is  the 
profit?    Send  in  data  as  arranged  on  page  79. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
VI 


< 
W 
H 

"^ 
O 
O 
^ 

w 
< 
o 

w 
K 
u 

I— I 

< 

CO 

W 

> 

I— ( 

H 
U 
< 

H 
H 
< 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  VI 


CATERING   FOR   SOCIAL   OCCASIONS 

AMOUNTS  TO  SERVE  ;  MENUS  AND  ESTIMATES  ;  AFTERNOON  TEAS, 
BEVERAGES — TEA,  COFFEE,  CHOCOLATE,  PUNCHES;  SANDWICHES; 
COOKIES  AND  CAKES ;  HIGH  TEAS  AND  CARD  PARTIES;  THE 
BUFFET  SPREAD,  SERVICE;  LAYING  THE  TABLE;  WEDDING  RECEP- 
TIONS AND  breakfasts;  patties  and  hot  dishes;  SALADS, 
aspics;  DESSERTS,  FROZEN  DESSERTS;  MENUS  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCA- 
SIONS ;   FIGURING  COSTS  ;   CATERING  FOR  A  LARGE  PARTY, 

IF  YOU  have  become  successful  in  making  cakes  or  rolls 
or  sandwiches  or  patties,  or  all  of  these  things,  people 
may  already  have  begun  to  ask  you  to  do  other  things, 
and  have  found  that  you  can  make  many  other  dishes 
equally  well.  Somebody  will  soon  want  to  know  if  you 
won't  plan  for  and  make  all  the  sandwiches  and  cakes  for 
the  afternoon  tea  she  is  giving.  If  she  is  pleased,  she  or 
her  friends  will  ask  you  to  serve  a  more  elaborate  spread. 
Before  you  know  it  you  may  be  doing  a  catering  business ! 
It  is  far  better  to  let  your  business  develop  naturally  in  this 
way  than  to  open  a  catering  estabHshment  unless  you  have 
had  considerable  experience  in  cooking  for  large  numbers 
of  people  or  in  the  executive  part  of  such  a  business.  Be- 
fore starting  in  to  do  a  regular  catering  business  on  a  large 
scale  it  would  be  well  to  secure  a  position  in  a  well  estab- 
lished catering  firm  to  learn  the  many  phases  of  this  line 
of  work. 

97 


98  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Catering  only  would  give  an  uncertain  income  at  the  best. 
It  is  usually  carried  on  in  connection  with  a  cooked  food 
shop,  a  lunch  room,  hotel  or  community  kitchen  in  order  to 
make  it  a  paying  proposition  all  the  year  round. 

Like  most  businesses,  catering  is  service.  It  also  means 
much  testing,  tasting,  time,  thought  and  hard  work,  and 
no  wasting. 

Usually  all  dishes  are  prepared  by  the  caterer  and  de- 
livered to  the  place  where  they  are  to  be  served.  As  a  rule 
no  cooking  is  done  on  the  premises,  although  facihties  for 
reheating  or  keeping  food  hot  may  be  found  or  provided. 
Special  insulated  coffee  urns  can  be  purchased  of  dealers  in 
hotel  supplies  for  $20  to  $30,  and  containers  for  other  hot 
foods  will  be  made  up  to  order  on  the  principle  of  the 
thermos  bottle.  Frozen  dishes  are  packed  in  molds  and  in 
tubs  of  ice  and  salt. 

Experience  will  be  your  best  guide  as  to  the  number  of 
sandwiches,  cookies  and  cakes,  the  amount  of  salad,  ice 
cream  and  coffee  to  provide,  but  careful,  intelligent  planning 
in  the  beginning  is  also  necessary. 

Make  up  a  definite  amount  of  the  desired  food  and  note 
the  amount  necessary  for  one  portion,  and  the  number  of 
portions  in  the  amount  you  have  prepared.  Calculate  from 
this  data  the  recipe  for  one  and  then  for  the  whole  number 
to  be  served.  During  and  after  the  serving  of  refreshments 
watch  carefully  and  correct  your  estimates  if  necessary  so 
you  will  have  more  accurate  data  another  time. 

Basic  Portions 

The  following  figures  were  taken  from  The  Soda  Foun- 
tain, a  monthly  magazine,  and  may  serve  as  a  guide  in  your 
computations. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  99 

Lemonade,  Fruit  Punch,  or  other  similar  liquid  beverage  served 
in  lemonade  or  punch  cups — lo  quarts  for  each  60  people.  Mineral 
glass  portions — 10  quarts  for  each  56  people. 

Ice  Cream.  6  standard  portions  to  the  quart.  If  bricks  of  ice 
cream  are  ordered,  ready  cut,  they  will  make  very  satisfactory  por- 
tions if  each  quart  is  divided  into  8  servings.  If  a  disher  or  ice 
cream  scoop  is  used^  know  exactly  how  many  scoops  to  a  quart  and 
a  gallon  you  can  get  by  using  dishers  of  different  sizes,  and  it  will 
make  a  difference  if  these  scoops  are  leveled  off  or  just  rounded 
out  with  all  they  will  hold.  Sometimes  the  profits  go  into  careless 
measurements. 

Frappe  and  Sherbet,  hard  frozen — 3  gallons  for  50  people.  Half 
frozen  and  beginning  to  melt — 2  gallons  for  50  people. 

Loaf  Sugar,    i  pound  to  24  people. 

Berries,  large  sized  ones — 10  quarts  for  50  people.  Medium  sized 
ones — 8  quarts  for  50  people.  Smaller  sized,  sound,  ripe  berries — 
7  quarts  for  50  people.    Granulated  or  powdered  sugar  for  berries — 

2  pounds  for  50  people. 

Fancy  Wafers.    3  boxes  to  50  people. 

Bonbons.    3  pounds  to  50  people. 

Olives  of  medium  size  will  run  about  75  to  the  pint.     Allowing 

3  olives  to  a  person,  a  pint  will  serve  25. 

Bouillon,  hot — 12  quarts  will  serve  50  people,  allowing  about 
7  ounces  to  a  person.    Jellied,  SJ^  quarts  will  serve  50  people. 

Whipped  Cream,  i  quart  will  make  50  rounding  tablespoonfuls. 
One  quart  refers  to  the  unwhipped  cream,  and  the  measurement  by 
tablespoonfuls  to  the  result  after  it  is  whipped. 

Hot  Chocolate.  25  to  30  cups  to  the  gallon,  depending  on  the 
cup  measurement.    This  amount  will  take  half  a  pound  of  chocolate. 

Cakes,  round  loaf  or  layer,  may  be  made  to  serve  eight  people  if 
cut  in  triangles  from  the  center;  or  16  people  if  cut  in  quarters  and 
then  sliced  from  the  center  outward  toward  the  edge.  In  this  case, 
the  pieces  are  not  exactly  uniform  in  size,  but  the  smaller  pieces  are 
thicker  and  the  larger  ones  thinner,  so  each  customer  gets  the  same 
amount  of  cake  in  reality. 

Croquettes,    6  pounds  of  meat  will  make  croquettes  for  50  people. 

Oysters.  Oysters  on  the  half  shell  are  apportioned  at  4  to  a 
customer.  Solid  oyster  meats  chopped  call  for  4  quarts  for  50 
people.  Oyster  stew — allow  6  quarts  to  50  people.  If  you  wish  a 
more  generous  allowance  of  oysters  to  a  serving,  allow  7  quarts. 

Chicken,  Turkey  or  Roast  Meat.  Remember  that  raw  meats 
weigh  from  two  to  two  and  a  half  times  their  net  weight  when 
cooked.  This  is  because  so  much  of  tj\e  moisture  is  evaporated 
when  roasting.  With  meats  which  are  fiSiled,  or  fried,  or  quickly 
cooked  in  any  way,  the  raw  meat  will  weigh  about  one  and  a 
half  the  cooked  portions.  Boiled  meats  will  shrink  almost  as 
much  as  roast  meats,  much  of  the  nutriment  going  to  the  gravy 
or  broth.  Twenty- five  pounds  of  raw,  dressed  meat  are  allowed  for 
the  serving  of  50  people,  if  the  meat  is  hot.    Cold  meat  goes  farther 


100  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

because  it  can  be  sliced  thinner,  and  25  pounds  can  be  made  to  serve 
from  60  to  70  people. 

Salmon  Salad.  This  calls  for  6  pounds  of  salmon  for  50  por- 
tions. 

Chicken  Salad.  A  4-pound  fowl  combined  with  celery  and 
the  other  trimmings,  should  make  2  quarts  of  salad.  2  quarts  of 
salad  should  serve  12  people  or  i  quart  to  6  people.  8^  quarts  will 
serve  50  people,  and  8^  quarts  of  salad  will  call  for  17  pounds  of 
fowl.  If  larger  portions  are  desired,  and  it  is  almost  solid  chicken 
meat,  allow  20  pounds  for  50  people. 

Sandwiches.  An  ordinary  sandwich  loaf  will  make  24  sand- 
wiches, or  will  cut  into  48  thin  slices  of  bread;  or  if  you  desire  a 
little  thicker  slices  of  bread  and  sandwiches  with  more  substance, 
cut  each  loaf  into  36  slices  or  18  sandwiches.  Each  sandwich  will 
be  the  full  size  of  a  slice  of  bread.  Allow  2  sandwiches  to  a  person. 
Or  if  the  sandwiches  are  cut  in  two  or  in  triangles,  allow  4  to  a 
person. 

One  pound  of  creamed  butter  should  spread  3  loaves  of  bread. 
One  quart  of  sandwich  filling  is  the  average  allowance  for  one  loaf 
of  bread. 

Menus  and  Estimates 

You  should  plan  in  advance  several  menus  with  standard 
dishes,  suitable  for  afternoon  teas,  buffet  spreads,  wedding 
receptions,  or  other  functions  for  which  you  may  be  asked 
to  cater,  and  estimate  the  amounts  required  and  the  entire 
cost  of  serving  fifty  or  a  hundred  or  more  people  with  these 
different  menus.  Then  you  will  be  prepared  when  you  are 
called  upon  for  an  estimate  of  the  expense  for  such  service. 
With  a  change  of  menu  there  will  probably  be  a  change  in 
the  price,  but  something  to  work  from  for  your  patrons  will 
be  helpful  both  to  you  and  to  them. 

When  making  up  your  estimate  for  any  function  do  not 
forget  to  charge  for  transporting  the  food  from  your  kitchen 
to  the  place  where  the  entertainment  is  to  be  given,  and 
do  not  neglect  to  charge  for  your  own  time  including  the 
time  of  consultation.  The  distance,  the  number  of  people 
to  be  served  and  the  menu  are  important  items  that  de- 
termine the  price  you  must  charge. 

Your  business  may  "develop  to  such  an  extent  that  you 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS   '  "'^''  ■'  ^lOl 

will  be  asked  to  provide  waitresses  to  set  the  table  and  to 
serve  the  refreshments,  and  you  may  also  be  requested  to 
provide  the  tables,  chairs,  china,  silver  and  linen,  and  even 
the  decorations. 

Equipment  for  Catering 

You  can  probably  get  in  touch  with  a  caterer  from  whom 
you  can  hire  such  equipment  as  is  necessary,  on  commission. 
In  the  same  way  you  can  make  arrangements  with  one  of 
the  best  florists  in  your  vicinity,  and  make  a  commission  on 
the  flowers  and  other  decorations  that  you  have  to  provide. 

If  there  are  many  people  in  your  vicinity  who  entertain, 
it  may  be  wise  for  you  to  purchase  such  equipment  as  is 
most  frequently  needed,  as  china,  silver,  linen,  et  cetera, 
that  is  not  found  in  sufficient  quantities  in  private  homes. 
You  can  rent  the  equipment  to  your  patrons,  store  it  be- 
tween engagements,  and  care  for  it  instead  of  hiring  from 
some  one,  and  it  will  soon  pay  for  itself,  and  be  a  distinct 
asset  to  your  business. 

Very  careful  figuring  will  be  necessary  to  arrive  at  the 
proper  charge  to  make  for  the  equipment  you  lend. 

The  original  cost,  loss  by  breakage,  loss  by  theft,  general 
wear  and  tear,  cost  of  transporting,  cost  of  washing,  polish- 
ing, repairing,  replacing,  et  cetera,  must  all  be  taken  into 
consideration.  Sometimes  it  is  necessary  to  charge  almost 
as  much  as  the  original  cost  of  the  china  or  glass  each  time 
it  is  rented. 

Fifteen  per  cent  of  the  total  charge  for  serving  a  tea  may 
be  for  the  dishes  used,  while  at  an  elaborate  banquet  as 
much  as  75  per  cent  of  the  charge  may  be  for  the  equipment 
alone. 

Prices  charged  for  equipment  vary  with  conditions.  At 
one  successful  establishment  the  charges  are  as  follows: 


f^M^iyU-J  il  .ACOOKtNG  FOR  PROFIT 

One  cent  each  for  flat  silver. 

Fifty  cents  a  dozen  for  cups,  saucers,  plates,  et  cetera. 

One  dollar  and  fifty  cents  a  dozen  for  camp  chairs. 

A  very  large  establishment  may  have  to  furnish  awnings, 
carpeting,  dancing  crash,  tables,  etc.,  and  also  furnish  foot- 
men, musicians,  dish  washers  and  lumpers. 

There  are  special  business  houses  in  New  York,  Chicago, 
Cincinnati,  and  other  large  cities  which  will  give  you  an 
estimate  on  the  cost  of  such  equipment  as  you  find  you 
need  from  time  to  time.  Many  of  these  firms  advertise 
regularly  in  the  Hotel  and  Caterers*  Magazines. 

Until  your  business  has  given  you  sufficient  profit  to 
warrant  the  purchase  of  an  auto  truck,  you  can  hire  a  truck 
paying  by  the  day  or  by  the  mile,  for  the  transportation  of 
food,  equipment,  etc.  One  large  concern  finds  that  waiters 
arrive  in  less  dusty  condition  at  their  destination  if  they 
go  by  train  or  trolley  instead  of  on  the  truck. 

Help  Required 

One  waiter  or  waitress  will  probably  be  needed  for  each 
six  to  ten  guests  if  an  elaborate  spread  is  provided. 

With  simple  refreshments  and  people  coming  and  going 
during  several  hours,  fewer  waiters  will  be  needed. 

A  dish  washer  will  be  necessary  to  scrape  and  rinse  dishes 
before  they  are  put  back  in  their  containers  and  returned  to 
headquarters. 

Waiters  and  waitresses  should  be  well  trained  and  know 
exactly  what  they  are  to  do  while  they  are  in  your  patron's 
home. 

What  to  Serve 

In  this  lesson  we  are  giving  lists  of  many  dishes  that 
may  be  used  for  different  menus  and  for  different  occasions. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  103 

AFTERNOON  TEA 

It  is  not  necessary  to  set  a  table  for  an  informal  after- 
noon tea,  but  a  table  should  be  ready  to  receive  the  refresh- 
ments in  the  room  in  which  the  guests  are  to  be  entertained. 
The  table  may  be  covered  with  a  dainty  tea  cloth  or  center- 
piece, spotless,  unwrinkled,  and  as  elaborate  as  one  desires. 
A  centerpiece  of  flowers  may  be  in  place  on  the  table. 

Dishes  Suitable  for  Afternoon  Tea 
Beverages 

Tea  with  such  Accompaniments  as 

Lump  sugar  rubbed  over  the  surface  of  a  washed  and  dried 

lemon  or  orange 
White  or  red  rock  candy 
Lemon  drops 
Cream 

Sliced  lemon 

Cubes  of  candied  pineapple 
Candied  or  maraschino  cherries 
Whole  cloves 
Orange  marmalade 
Candied  ginger 
Candied  rose  petals  or  mint  leaves 

Coffee 

With  honey  and  whipped  cream 
Add  to  these  lists  dishes  that  you  yourself  or  your  patrons 

like  especially,  and  consult  these  lists  constantly  while  plan- 
ning new  menus.  As  you  note  the  cost  of  each  dish  and 
the  amount  required  for  a  definite  number  of  people,  the 
figures  may  be  placed  in  columns  following  the  dishes.  You 
will  find  it  of  the  greatest  help  to  have  such  Hsts  to  work 
from  in  planning  meals  for  all  sorts  of  occasions. 

A  few  notes  are  given  to  help  in  serving  these  refresh- 
ments. 

Boiled 

Filtered 

With  cream  and  sugar 

With  vanilla  extract,  sugar  and  whipped  cream 


104  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Cocoa  or  Chocolate 

With  cream 

With  marshmallows 

With  coffee  flavor   (Mexican  chocolate) 

Iced  chocolate 


Soups 


Mock  bisque  soup 

Cream  of  chicken  soup 

Beef  Bouillon 

Chicken  or  clam  bouillon  with  whipped  cream 


Punches 


Blackberry  punch 

Cranberry  bunch 

Cider  and  white  grape  juice  punch 

Gingerale  lemonade 

Gingerale  punch 

Grape  juice  and  orange  punch 

Grape  juice  lemonade  with  mint 

Ginger  punch 

Loganberry  punch 

Lemonade 

Orangeade 

Orangeade  with  gingerale 

Pineapple  julep 

Pineapple  lemonade 

Tea  lemonade 

Pineapple  grape  juice  punch 

Tea  punch 

Raspberry  shrub  punch 


Frappes 

Cafe  frappe  with  whipped  cream 

Cider  frappe 

Cranberry  frappe 

Grape  frappe 

Grape  juice  and  mint  frappe 

Orange  frappe 

Raspberry  frappe 

Strawberry  frappe 

How  to  Make  Tea 

Oolong,  English  breakfast,  and  Orange  Pekoe  tea  are  used  for 
afternoon  tea.  It  may  be  in  the  teapot  when  the  tea  tray  is  brought 
in.    The  water  may  be  almost  at  the  boiling  point  in  a  kettle  heated 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  105 

by  alcohol  or  electricity,  and  should  be  used  as  soon  as  it  actually 
boils.  It  should  stand  on  the  leaves  from  i  to  3  minutes  only, 
depending  on  the  kind  of  tea  used.  The  tea  should  never  be  allowed 
to  boil.  Fresh  leaves  should  never  be  added  to  those  that  have  once 
been  used  for  tea.  Two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  tea  and  i  pint  of 
boiling  water  will  make  3  tea  cups  of  tea.  Sugar  and  both  lemon 
and  cream  are  provided,  and  each  guest  makes  her  own  selection. 
Other  accompaniments  are  suggested  above. 

Where  only  i  or  2  cups  of  tea  are  to  be  made  at  a  time,  a  tea 
ball  or  perforated  double  teaspoon  half  full  of  tea  may  be  used. 
Place  in  the  cup,  pour  on  boiling  water,  lift  the  ball  up  and  down 
until  the  tea  is  the  right  strength  as  indicated  by  the  color,  and 
remove  tea  ball  immediately  to  another  cup  or  a  small  dish.  Two 
to  4  cups  of  tea  may  be  made  without  refilling  the  ball. 

Iced  Tea 

In  hot  weather  iced  tea  may  have  a  greater  appeal  than  the  hot 
beverage.  The  tea  should  be  freshly  made  and  poured  while  hot 
over  pieces  of  ice  in  tall  glasses.    Sugar  and  lemon  are  used  with  it. 

Cofifee 

Cofifee  and  cocoa  are  usually  served  from  urns  at  which  friends 
of  the  hostess  preside. 

Filtered  coffee  may  be  made  in  the  urn  if  it  is  provided  with 
a  strainer  or  if  a  linen  bag  is  suspended  in  the  urn. 

At  a  famous  restaurant  the  rule  is  as  follows : 

One  Gallon  Filtered  Coffee 

Mix  thoroughly 
8  ounces  medium  fine  ground  coffee 
^  of  I  egg  white 
H  cup  cold  water  and 
%  teaspoon  salt;  pour  over 
I  gallon  of  fresh  water  which  is  actually  boiling. 

Draw  off  the  liquid  and  pour  over  and  over  until  of  the  right 
strength,  then  remove  bag. 

If  a  percolator  is  used  in  which  the  water  bubbles  up  and  falls 
down  through  the  coffee,  it  will  probably  take  about  10  minutes  to 
become  of  the  right  strength. 

Special  insulated  coffee  urns  should  be  provided  in  which  coffee 
will  keep  hot  for  a  number  of  hours  if  made  in  one  place  and 
served  in  another,  or  if  it  is  served  at  intervals  for  several  hours. 


106  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Boiled  Coffee  for  Fifty 

Put  in  coffee  bag 
I  pound  ground  coffee,  place  in  container,  add 
6  to  8  quarts  cold  water  and  let  stand  several  hours  or  over  night. 

Bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  3  minutes.     Remove  bag  and 
serve  coffee  as  required. 

For  After  Dinner  Coffee  use  4  to  5  quarts  of  cold  water. 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate 

Cocoa  or  chocolate  may  be  served  from  the  kitchen  or  from  a 
chocolate  pot  at  the  table. 

Be  sure  the  cocoa  or  chocolate  boils  with  the  water  and  sugar  for 
at  least  5  minutes  before  the  milk  is  added,  and  that  it  is  then  kept 
hot  over  hot  water  or  in  a  special  container. 

Mexican  Chocolate 

Scald 
I  quart  milk  with 

1  inch  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  and 

3  tablespoons  ground  coffee.     Strain  through  cheesecloth,  add 

2  squares  sweet  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water  and  mixed  with 
I/2  cup  boiling  water.     Cook  three  minutes  over  hot  water,  add 

J/^  teaspoon  vanilla  and  serve  with 
Whipped  cream. 

Soups 

Delicate  cream  soups  are  sometimes  served  at  afternoon  affairs, 
especially  at  bridge  parties.  A  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  slightly 
salted  or  combined  with  sifted  pimiento  may  be  served  on  the 
soup. 

Punch 

Punch  or  frappe,  which  is  a  half  frozen  sherbet,  is  served  with  a 
ladle  from  a  punch  bowl,  which  should  be  on  a  small  table  that  is 
covered  with  a  luncheon  cloth.  Punch  glasses  should  be  on  the 
table  around  the  bowl. 

A  block  of  ice  should  be  in  the  punch  bowl,  also  a  garnish  of 
thin  slices  of  fruit  or  sometimes  a  bunch  of  mint  leaves.  Balls  of 
lemon  or  strawberry  ice  may  be  used  instead  of  ice  in  the  punch 
bowl. 

Whipped  cream  may  be  put  on  each  glass  of  some  varieties  of 
punch  as  it  is  served. 

Gingerale  or  charged  water  should  not  be  added  to  punch  until 
just  before  it  is  served. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  107 

SANDWICHES 

Five  o'clock  tea  sandwiches  should  be  small  and  dainty. 
The  bread  should  be  thinly  sliced,  and  the  crusts  removed. 
The  serving  plate  may  be  garnished  with  cress  or  small 
lettuce  leaves.  White,  graham,  Boston  brown  or  nut  bread 
may  be  used.  Be  careful  to  spread  the  butter  and  filling  to 
the  edges  and  corners  of  the  bread. 

Sandwiches  may  be  cut  in  circles,  squares,  rectangles, 
triangles,  diamonds  or  strips.  They  should  be  wrapped  in 
a  dry  cloth,  then  in  a  damp  cloth  as  soon  as  made,  and  put 
in  a  closely  covered  metal  receptacle  or  crock  or  wrapped 
in  wax  paper. 

Bread  spread  with  creamed  butter  is  always  in  good  taste 
or  the  following  fillings  may  be  used. 

Fillings  for  Sandwiches 

Chopped  olives  or  pimolas 

Lettuce  and  mayonnaise  dressing 

Chopped  nuts  and  creamed  butter 

Pimiento  cheese 

Marmalade  or  strawberry  jam 

Maraschino  cherries,  and  whipped  cream 

Chopped  preserved  ginger,  cream^  cheese  and  chopped  nuts 

Cream  cheese,  lettuce  and  guava  jelly 

Jam  and  cheese 

Sardine  and  celery 

Lobster  and  mayonnaise  dressing 

American  cheese  and  catsup 

Creamed  butter  and  anchovy  paste 

Radishes  and  mayonnaise  dressing 

Horseradish  butter 

Cream  cheese  and  chopped  olives 

Cream  cheese,  chopped  celery  and  pimolas 

Cream  cheese,  chopped  chicken  and  mayonnaise 

Melted  sweet  chocolate  between  buttered  bread 

Strawberries  sliced  and  mayonnaise 

Chopped  ham  and  raspberry  jam 

Hani  and  sweet  pickles  chopped  and  mayonnaise 

Raisins  and  almonds  chopped  and  marmalade 

Raisins  chopped  and  mayonnaise  dressing 

Cucumber  slices  and  mayonnaise 


108  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Ribbon  Sandwiches 

Layer  sandwiches  or  ribbon  sandwiches  are  made  with  three  or 
more  slices  of  bread  l4  inch  thick,  put  together  with  filling.  They 
should  be  folded  in  damp  cheesecloth,,  pressed  under  a  weight  until 
serving  time,  then  cut  in  ^  inch  slices,  and  arranged  on  a  doily- 
covered  plate.  The  bread  may  be  all  white,  or  alternate  slices  of  white 
and  dark  bread  may  be  used.  Nut  bread,  graham  bread,  and  Boston 
brown  bread  are  all  attractive.  The  middle  slice  of  bread  should  be 
spread  on  both  sides  with  butter  or  other  filling,  and  the  outside 
slices  should  be  buttered  on  one  side  only.  The  effect  is  like  a 
slice  of  layer  cake. 

Piquante  Ribbon  Sandwiches 

6  tablespoons  butter,  work  until  creamy,  add 
4  tablespoons  grated  horseradish 
I  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
6  pimolas  finely  chopped 
Few  grains  salt 

Spread  a  slice  of  white  bread  with  this  mixture,  cover  with  a  slice 
of  graham  bread,  spread  with  the  mixture  and  cover  with  a  slice 
of  white  bread.  Prepare  other  slices  of  bread  in  the  same  way. 
Wrap  in  damp  cheesecloth,  press  under  a  board  with  a  weight  on 
top,  and  when  ready  to  serve  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Mosaic  Sandwiches 

Cut  three  slices  each  of  white  and  graham  bread  one-half  inch  in 
thickness.  Spread  a  slice  of  white  bread  with  creamed  butter  and 
place  a  slice  of  graham  on  it;  spread  this  with  creamed  butter  and 
place  on  it  a  slice  of  white  bread ;  repeat  this  process,  beginning 
with  a  slice  of  graham.  Put  both  piles  in  a  cool  place  under  a 
light  weight.  When  butter  has  become  firm,  trim  each  pile  evenly 
and  cut  each  pile  in  three  one-half  inch  slices.  Spread  these  with 
butter  and  put  together  in  such  a  way  that  a  white  block  will  alter- 
nate with  a  graham  one.  Place  again  in  a  cool  place  under  a  light 
weight,  and  when  butter  has  become  perfectly  hard  cut  in  thin 
slices  for  serving.    Arrange  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

Crackers 

Small,  toasted,  unsweetened  crackers  may  be  served  with  soup 
or  tea,  or  with  a  filling  in  place  of  sandwiches. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  109 

Cookies  and  Little  Cakes 

These  should  be  small  and  dainty  for  an  afternoon  tea. 
Cut  cake  with  a  soft  frosting  is  difficult  to  handle,  and  had 
best  be  kept  for  some  other  occasion. 

Small  cakes  may  be  plain  or  frosted,  and  sometimes  may 
be  decorated. 

Recipes  and  suggestions  for  cookies  and  cakes  are  found 
in  Chapters  III  and  IV,  or  in  standard  cook  books. 

Make  up  your  own  list  of  these  cakes  and  add  to  it  other 
small  cakes  that  you  have  found  popular.  Use  this  list  in 
planning  your  menus. 

A  cross  between  a  wafer  and  a  cracker  are  the  dainty 
Swedish  Tea  Cakes. 

Swedish  Tea  Cakes 

Beat  slightly 
I  egg,  add 
14  teaspoon  salt  and 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 

Knead,  roll  mixture  very  thin,  cut  out  with  small  round 
fluted  cutter,  fry  in  hot  oil  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
powdered  sugar. 

HIGH  TEAS  AND  CARD  PARTIES 

At  an  elaborate  tea  you  should  not  attempt  to  serve  too 
many  dishes,  but  whatever  is  served  should  be  as  attractive 
and  appetizing  as  possible. 

The  menu  may  consist  of  sandwiches  or  rolls,  a  hot  dish, 
a  salad,  a  jelHed  or  frozen  dessert,  cakes,  bonbons,  salted 
nuts  and  tea  or  coffee.  If  the  salad  is  a  frozen  one,  the 
dessert  should  not  be  frozen ;  a  charlotte  russe,  or  a  jellied 
or  fruit  dessert,  will  be  satisfactory. 


110  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

At  a  card  party  the  card  tables  are  often  covered  with 
dainty  cloths,  and  the  same  kind  of  menu  as  suggested 
above  is  served  at  each  table. 

The  salads  and  desserts  should  all  be  served  individually. 

Refreshments  at  card  parties  and  club  meetings  may  be 
easily  served  from  the  kitchen  on  individual  trays  contain- 
ing the  three  or  four  dishes  of  the  menu. 

THE  BUFFET  SPREAD 

At  a  formal  reception,  a  wedding,  a  dance  or  other  large 
party,  a  buffet  spread  may  be  served.  At  noon  it  may  be 
called  a  wedding  breakfast,  at  one  or  two  o'clock  a  luncheon, 
in  the  afternoon  a  high  tea,  in  the  evening  a  spread  or  a 
reception. 

At  any  of  these  functions  the  guests  may  partake  of  the 
refreshments  standing. 

Buffet  Service 

When  buffet  service  is  used  the  food  is  placed  upon  an 
attractively  laid  table,  usually  all  at  the  same  time,  although 
it  may  be  brought  to  the  table  and  served  in  courses.  Plates, 
silver  and  napkins  are  arranged  upon  the  table  to  make  the 
service  as  quick  and  simple  as  possible. 

The  arrangement  and  service  of  a  buffet  luncheon  and  a 
buffet  spread  or  supper  are  practically  the  same,  except  that 
the  luncheon  often  presents  heavier  and  more  varied  courses, 
and  in  the  evening  lighted  candles  are  used. 

The  arrangement  of  the  dishes  depends  largely  upon  the 
menu  and  the  number  of  guests  to  be  served.  Rather  than 
have  the  table  appear  crowded,  it  is  better  to  have  a  maid 
replenish  the  dishes  and  supplies  from  the  serving  table  or 
pantry. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  HI 

The  menu  may  consist  of  one  or  two  hot  dishes,  one  or 
two  cold  dishes,  hot  rolls  and  sandwiches,  one  or  two  frozen 
desserts,  or  one  dessert  frozen  and  the  other  an  attractively 
garnished  mold  of  jelly  or  cream;  cakes,  olives,  bonbons, 
nuts,  coffee  or  chocolate  and  punch.  All  food  should  be 
such  as  can  be  easily  eaten  with  a  fork  or  spoon. 

The  laying  of  the  table  should  be  as  follows :  After  lay- 
ing the  luncheon  cloth  or  the  silence  and  dinner  cloth,  place 
the  floral  decoration  in  the  center,  and  the  candlesticks,  two 
or  four,  about  the  centerpiece  (these  may  be  omitted  for  a 
midday  spread).  Four  dishes  of  bonbons,  or  two  of  bon- 
bons and  two  of  salted  nuts  or  olives  should  be  placed  just 
outside  the  candlesticks  for  an  evening  spread.  Next,  place 
two  chafing  dishes  or  platters  at  ends  of  the  table  in  direct 
line.  These  should  be  filled  just  before  the  guests  ar- 
rive. Each  may  contain  a  different  mixture,  or  each  may 
contain  the  same  kind  of  mixture.  The  platters  for  the 
salad  or  salads  are  placed  next,  at  opposite  sides  of  the  table. 
Around  these  platters  and  chafing  dishes  group  the  forks 
attractively  and  the  plates  in  one  or  two  piles.  Place  the 
serving  silver  in  the  most  convenient  position,  fork  at  the 
left  and  spoon  at  the  right  of  the  salad  platters  and  chafing 
dishes. 

Rolls  and  sandwiches  are  arranged  on  doily-covered  plates 
and  placed  not  too  far  in  from  the  edge  of  the  table;  rolls 
are  served  with  the  hot  course,  and  sandwiches  with  the 
salad. 

Place  small  napkins  piled  diagonally,  side  and  corner 
alternating,  not  too  high,  on  two  or  four  opposite  corners 
of  the  table. 

After  the  hot  and  salad  courses  have  been  served  and 
removed,  the  ices,  with  serving  silver,  are  brought  in.  Cakes 
arranged  on  doily-covered  plates  may  be  previously  placed 
on  the  serving  table,  and  passed  or  placed  with  ice  cream 


112  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

on  the  dining  table.  Coffee  alone,  or  coffee  and  chocolate, 
may  be  provided.  Either  one  or  both  may  be  served  from 
an  urn  placed  at  one  end  of  the  table,  or  the  filled  cups, 
either  large  or  small,  may  be  brought  in  on  a  tray  from  the 
pantry.  Punch  is  usually  served  from  a  punch  bowl  placed 
with  the  necessary  glasses  on  a  small  table  in  another  room. 
Friends  of  the  hostess  usually  serve;  sometimes  the  host 
and  hostess  assist,  although  a  waitress  may  do  the  passing, 
removing  all  soiled  dishes,  bringing  fresh  ones  and  replen- 
ishing supplies.  A  buffet  spread  for  a  large  reception,  where 
people  are  coming  and  going  during  certain  hours,  varies 
from  the  spread  served  at  a  definite  hour  to  a  definite  num- 
ber in  that  all  refreshments  (hot,  cold  and  frozen)  and  also 
the  beverages  are  put  upon  the  table  at  once. 

Wedding  Receptions  and  Breakfasts 

The  refreshments  served  at  a  wedding  may  be  simple  or 
elaborate.  A  Bride's  Cake  or  a  Wedding  Cake  or  both 
may  be  used  with  a  simple  menu  or  omitted  if  more  con- 
venient. With  an  elaborate  menu  they  may  both  be  in- 
cluded. If  only  ice  cream  and  cake  are  served  the  ice  cream 
may  be  brought  from  the  pantry  on  individual  plates  by 
waiters,  members  of  the  family  or  friends,  or  it  may  be 
served  in  the  dining  room. 

A  folded  napkin  may  be  under  each  plate  and  a  tea- 
spoon, or  an  ice  cream  spoon  may  be  on  each  plate  as  it  is 
passed.  The  cakes  arranged  on  doily-covered  plates  may 
then  be  passed. 

If  served  in  the  dining  room  the  arrangement  is  the  same 
as  suggested  under  a  Buffet  Spread. 

The  decorated  Bride's  Cake  may  be  used  as  the  centre 
piece. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  113 

DISHES  THAT  MAY  BE  SERVED  AT  A  BUFFET 

SPREAD 

Patties  and  Hot  Dishes 

Any  delicate  meat  or  fish,  heated  in  a  rich  white  or  cream 
sauce,  may  be  served  in  patty  cases,  timbale  cases,  ramekin 
dishes,  from  a  chafing  dish  or  as  a  croquette. 

Mushrooms,  trufiies,  pimientos,  green  pepper  or  cheese 
may  be  added  for  flavor  and  garnish. 

Timbales  are  made  of  finely  chopped  chicken,  sweet- 
breads, ham,  veal,  salmon,  or  delicate  white  fish  combined 
with  eggs,  cream  and  crumbs,  baked  in  timbale  molds, 
turned  out  and  served  hot  with  a  rich  sauce.  They  may 
take  the  place  of  patties. 

Suggestions  for  Hot  Dishes 

In  the  chafing  dish  or  in  patty  cases 
Creamed  chicken 
Russian  oysters 
Creamed  sweetbreads 
Creamed  oysters 
Chicken  a  la  King 
Crab  meat  a  la  King 
Creamed  sardines  and  eggs 
Shrimps  and  peas  in  white  sauce 
Chicken  and  mushrooms 
Lobster  or  other  shellfish  a  la  Newburg 
Cheese  Rarebit 
Oyster  Rarebit 
Tomato  Rarebit 

Croquettes 

Chicken  Chestnut 

Lobster  Chicken  and  mushroom 

Sweetbread  Egg 

Oyster  Oyster  and   Macaroni 

Salmon  Salmon 

Cheese  Veal 


114  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Scalloped  Dishes 

Oysters 
Scallops 
Fish 

Timbales 

Chicken 

Halibut 

Ham 

Lobster 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom 

Rolls  and  Sandwiches 

The  rolls  served  at  a  buffet  spread  should  be  small,  light, 
a  delicate  brown  in  color,  and  buttered  before  they  are 
served,  or  made  so  rich  with  butter  that  none  is  necessary. 
Cream  fingers,  Parker  House  rolls  or  luncheon  rolls  are 
usually  served. 

Sandwiches  may  be  the  same  as  suggested  for  teas. 

Salads 

Salads  may  be  made  of  vegetables,  fruit,  fish,  meat,  nuts 
or  cheese,  alone  or  in  combination,  mixed  with  salad  dress- 
ing and  served  on  lettuce  or  other  green. 

Mayonnaise  dressing,  alone  or  combined  with  whipped 
cream,  or  a  cooked  dressing  may  be  used. 

Every  leaf  of  lettuce  should  be  carefully  washed  and 
dried.  The  ingredients  of  which  the  salad  is  made  should 
be  cut  in  regular  pieces  of  uniform  size.  The  salad  filhng 
should  be  most  carefully  placed  on  the  green  used.  Avoid 
any  appearance  of  carelessness  in  the  arrangement. 

Salads  are  very  attractive  if  the  ingredients  are  com- 
bined with  I  tablespoon  gelatine  soaked  and  dissolved  in 
3  tablespoons  liquid  for  each  cup  of  mayonnaise  used.  They 
may  be  molded  in  individual  forms  or  in  large  decorated 
molds. 

Frozen  salads  are  popular.  For  a  frozen  salad  as  much 
cream  should  be  whipped  as  you  will  use  of  mayonnaise 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  115 

dressing.  Combine  and  mix  with  the  fruit,  vegetables,  lob- 
ster, chicken,  or  whatever  is  used.  Put  into  small  brick 
molds  or  baking  powder  boxes,  cover,  pack  in  i  part  ice  to 
2  parts  salt  and  leave  about  2  hours  or  until  frozen.  Salad 
may  then  be  sliced  and  served  on  lettuce  leaves. 

For  a  very  elaborate  affair  whole  small  salmon,  boned 
chicken  or  turkeys  may  be  molded  in  aspic  jelly.  The 
molds  are  usually  elaborately  decorated  and  when  turned 
out  are  garnished  with  cress  or  other  green  and  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  make  an  attractive  addition  to  a  buffet  table. 

Aspics 

Highly  seasoned  soup  stock  made  from  beef,  veal,  chicken 
or  fish,  is  used  for  aspic  jelly. 

Gelatine  is  dissolved  in  the  stock;  it  is  then  cleared, 
cooled  and  used  in  a  mold  with  boned  chicken  or  turkey, 
salmon,  eggs,  lobster,  chicken  salad  or  other  delicate  in- 
gredients. 

The  mold  may  be  a  large  one  and  garnished  with  hard 
cooked  eggs,  capers,  olives,  pickles,  truffles,  parsley,  bits  of 
cooked  vegetables,  et  cetera.  It  should  be  well  chilled  be- 
fore being  turned  out  on  a  platter. 

A  FEW  SALADS  THAT  MAY  BE  SERVED 

Lobster  salad 

Pear   salad — half  pears   on  lettuce,   center   filled   with  nuts  and 
mayonnaise 

Tomatoes  stuffed  with  chicken  or  vegetable  salad 

Alligator  pear  salad  with  pineapple  and  fresh  lime  dressing 

Frozen  fruit  salad 

Mixed  vegetables  molded  in  jelly 

Sweetbread  and  celery  or  cucumber  salad 

Chicken  and  celery  or  cucumber  salad 
,     Lobster  and  celery  or  cucumber  salad 

Molded  salmon  with  cucumber  sauce 

Salmon  in  aspic 
"^  Duck  and  orange  molded  in  jelly 

Molded  chicken  and  celery 

Mock  lobster  salad   (cooked  halibut,  celery  and  pimientos) 

Fresh  crab  meat  salad 


116  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Chicken  salad  molded  in  frozen  tomato 
Fresh  crab  meat  salad 
Shrimp  salad 

Frozen  Fruit  Salad 

Mix  well 
i^  tablespoons  flour 
^  tablespoon  mustard  and 
y2  tablespoon  salt;  add 
^  cup  condensed  milk 
Yi  cup  vinegar 
^  cup  water  and 

1  egg  yolk  slightly  beaten.  Cook  over  hot  water  fifteen  minutes, 

stirring  constan^^ly  until  thickened.     Remove,  strain,  add 

2  tablespoons  butter,  and 

^  teaspoon  celery  seed.  Cool,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
white  of 

I  egg  ' 

Yz  cup  cream  beaten  stiff  and 

V/i  cups  fruit,  using  oranges,  bananas,  white  grapes  and  mara- 
schino cherries.  Put  in  small  baking  powder  boxes,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  then  with  tin  cover,  and  pack  in  2  parts 
crushed  ice  to  i  part  rock  salt  for  2  hours.  Remove  from 
molds,  cut  in  slices  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Dessert 

The  dessert  served  at  a  buffet  spread  is  usually  frozen, 
but  jellies,  charlotte  russe,  and  Bavarian  creams  may  be 
used.  They  should  be  attractively  molded  and  decorated. 
They  are  frequently  placed  on  the  table  on  large  platters 
and  should  be  pleasing  to  look  at  as  well  as  to  taste. 

Jellies 

The  jellies  used  are  stiffened  with  gelatine.  Powdered 
gelatine  is  especially  satisfactory  as  it  is  quickly  softened 
and  dissolved.  For  flavor  lemon  juice,  orange  juice  or  al- 
most any  fresh  or  canned  fruit  juice  may  be  used  except 
fresh  pineapple  juice  which  has  the  property  of  digesting 
gelatine,  thus  preventing  the  hardening  of  the  jelly. 

Spanish  Cream 

Spanish  cream  is  boiled  custard  stiffened  with  gelatine 
and  made  light  and  fluffy  by  the  addition  of  beaten  tgg 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  117 

whites.    The  custard  may  be  made  of  all  milk  and  flavored 
as  desired,  or  of  part  milk  and  part  coffee. 

Bavarian  Cream 

Bavarian  creams  are  like  Spanish  creams  with  whipped 
cream  folded  in  just  as  they  are  beginning  to  stiffen. 
Cooked  fruit  juices,  as  pineapple  and  apricot,  may  be  used 
instead  of  milk. 

Charlotte  Russe 

Charlotte  russe  is  made  of  cream  or  fruit  juice  sweet- 
ened and  flavored,  stiffened  with  gelatine  and  combined  with 
whipped  cream.  The  mold  is  usually  Hned  with  lady  fin- 
gers or  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake. 

Fancy  Molded  Desserts 

Jellied  desserts  may  be  molded  in  layers.  The  mold 
should  be  placed  in  ice  water  and  a  thin  layer  of  jelly  put 
in  the  bottom.  This  may  be  decorated  with  fruit,  nuts,  etc. 
Then  jelly  should  be  carefully  put  over  the  decorations  to 
hold  them  in  place.  When  firm,  more  jelly  may  be  added, 
or  beaten  jelly,  a  whipped  cream  mixture  or  fruit  may  be 
used  alternately  with  the  jelly  until  the  mold  is  full. 

Artificial  colors,  as  scarlet,  rose,  green,  orange,  etc.,  may 
be  added  to  the  mixture  before  it  is  stiffened. 

Fruits  or  nuts  in  small  pieces  may  be  folded  into  the 
mixture,  may  be  arranged  in  the  bottom  of  the  mold,  or 
may  be  used  as  a  decoration  on  it  or  around  it,  when  the 
mold  is  turned  out. 

FROZEN  DESSERTS 

Recipes  for  many  kinds  of  frozen  desserts  may  be  found 
in  any  good  cook  book. 

If  two  or  three  kinds  of  ice  cream  or  ice  cream  and 


118  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

sherbet  are  to  be  packed  in  one  mold  they  must  each  be 
frozen  separately  and  then  packed  in  alternate  layers.  This 
is  called  Neapolitan  ice  cream. 

Sherbet.  A  sherbet  is  a  mixture  of  fruit  juice,  water 
and  sugar  frozen  like  ice  cream. 

Frappes.  A  coarsely  frozen  water  ice  or  sherbet.  Equal 
parts  ice  and  salt  are  used  and  mixture  is  stirred  occasion- 
ally until  frozen. 

Ice  Cream.  Ice  creams  are  mixtures  of  cream,  sugar  and 
flavoring,  turned  into  the  can  of  a  freezer,  surrounded  with 
a  mixture  of  3  parts  ice  and  i  part  rock  salt,  and  frozen 
while  being  constantly  stirred.  Fruit  ice  creams  are  made 
by  combining  thin  cream  with  sifted  fruits  and  sweetening 
to  taste. 

An  ice  cream  stiffened  with  rennet  or  junket  requires 
less  cream  than  most  other  kinds  of  frozen  desserts. 

Sometimes  flour  and  eggs  are  both  used  to  thicken  the 
custard  for  ice  cream. 

Ice  cream  made  with  many  egg  yolks  is  called  French 
ice  cream. 

Many  commercial  ice  creams  contain  gelatine  or  other 
preparations  to  prevent  their  melting  too  rapidly. 

When  it  is  impossible  to  get  cream  for  frozen  desserts 
evaporated  milk  may  be  successfully  substituted. 

When  served  with  whipped  cream  and  lady  fingers  a 
mold  of  ice  cream  becomes  a  charlotte  glace. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream.  Ice  cream  to  which  chopped  nuts  or 
pounded  macaroons  are  added  is  called  bisque  ice  cream. 

Mousses  are  mixtures  of  whipped  cream,  sugar  and 
flavoring.  The  mixture  is  put  into  a  mold,  covered  with 
greased  paper  and  with  the  tin  cover,  and  packed  in  2  parts 
ice  to  I  part  salt  and  left  for  2  hours  or  longer. 

Parfaits  are  made  by  pouring  hot  syrup  over  beaten  yolks 
or  whites  of  eggs  and  combining  it  with  whipped  cream  and 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  119 

flavoring.  They  may  be  frozen  without  an  ice  cream 
freezer.  Turn  into  a  mold  or  empty  baking  powder  boxes, 
cover  with  greased  paper  and  with  tight  tin  cover.  Sur- 
round with  2  parts  crushed  ice  and  i  part  rock  salt,  and 
leave  2  hours  or  longer.  The  salt  water  that  accumulates 
should  be  occasionally  poured  off  to  prevent  the  possibility 
of  its  getting  into  the  mold. 

Bomhe.  A  bombe  is  made  by  lining  a  bombe,  melon  or 
other  mold  with  frozen  sherbet  or  ice  cream,  and  filling 
the  center  with  frozen  ice  cream  or  unfrozen  mousse  or 
parfait  of  a  contrasting  color.  Many  attractive  combinations 
are  possible.   Pack  for  two  hours  or  more  before  serving. 

Variations.  Any  plain  ice  cream  may  be  served  with 
whipped  cream  or  with  a  sauce.  Many  sauces  are  served 
warm  and  stiffen  when  poured  over  the  cream.  Nuts  may 
be  sprinkled  on  top  of  the  sauce.  Fresh  or  candied  fruit 
may  be  used  in  a  sauce,  especially  with  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Sundaes.  Ice  cream  molded  with  a  scoop,  covered  with 
a  sauce  and  sprinkled  with  nuts. 

How  TO  Freeze  Ice  Creams,  Etc. 

Ice  cream  freezers  to  be  turned  by  hand  come  in  sizes 
from  I  quart  to  25  quarts.  Where  ice  cream  must  be  made 
daily  and  in  large  quantities,  it  is  desirable  to  have  a 
freezer  that  runs  by  electricity,  and  special  methods  for 
storing  the  frozen  cream.  Coils  through  which  flows  am- 
monia gas  are  frequently  used  instead  of  ice  and  salt  in  ice 
cream  factories. 

The  Ice  Cream  Scoop 

Ice  cream  scoops  come  in  different  sizes  so  that  six,  eight 
or  twelve  portions  may  be  taken  from  one  quart  of  cream. 


120  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Some  scoops  are  half  spheres,  and  some  are  cone  shaped. 
They  insure  uniformity  in  the  size  of  the  portions  served. 
A  large  mixing  spoon  may  also  be  used. 

When  serving,  use  two  scoops  or  spoons  and  change 
them  frequently,  keeping  one  in  hot  water,  while  the  other 
is  being  used  to  serve  the  cream,  so  that  the  ice  cream  will 
slide  easily  from  the  hot  scoop  or  spoon  into  the  serving  dish. 

Molded  Ice  Creams 

Ice  cream  molds  come  in  individual  shapes.  The  best 
ones  are  made  of  lead  and  cost  from  one  to  three  dollars 
each.  Larger  molds  come  in  sizes  holding  from  one  pint 
to  two  quarts  or  more  in  many  different  shapes,  such  as 
brick,  melon,  heart  shaped,  et  cetera. 

Individual  ices  are  of  course  served  one  to  a  person. 
Large  molds  should  be  cut  in  slices  for  serving.  Molds  are 
filled  to  overflowing  with  the  frozen  mixture,  covered  and 
packed  in  4  parts  ice  and  i  part  rock  salt  until  time  for 
serving. 

The  rim  where  the  mold  and  the  cover  join  may  be 
bound  with  a  strip  of  cheesecloth  dipped  in  melted  fat  to 
prevent  the  entrance  of  salt  water  into  the  mold. 

Turning  Out  a  Mold  of  Jellied  or  Frozen  Mixture 

A  mold  should  be  oiled  and  the  oil  wiped  out  with  soft 
paper  before  a  mixture  is  put  in.  Wet  with  cold  water  the 
platter  on  which  the  mold  is  to  be  served  and  do  not  dry 
it.  If  it  does  not  fall  directly  in  the  center,  it  can  then  be 
easily  moved  into  place.  If  the  mixture  does  not  readily 
come  out  of  the  mold,  dip  it  for  an  instant  in  warm  water 
or  lay  over  it  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  A  thin  knife 
run  around  the  edge  will  help  to  loosen  it. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  121 

Garnishing  a  Mold  of  Jellied  or  Frozen  Dessert 

The  turned  out  mold  may  be  decorated  with : 

Whipped  cream  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  in  which  a  rose  tube 

has  been  inserted 
Candied  or  maraschino  cherries 
Candied  pineapple,  plums  and  apricots  cut  in  pieces 
Whole  or  chopped  nuts,  especially  green  pistachio  nuts,  toasted 

almonds  and  pecans 
Fresh  or  canned  fruits  especially  strawberries  and  apricots 
Lady  fingers 
Macaroons 
Kisses 

Marshmallows 
Spun  sugar 
Candy  flowers 

Frozen  Desserts  Attractive  for  High  Teas  or 
Buffet  Service 

Vanilla  ice  cream  plain  or  with  chocolate  or  butterscotch  sauce 

Chocolate  ice  cream  with  marshmallow  sauce  and  nuts 

Strawberry  ice  cream 

Coffee  ice  cream 

Banana  ice  cream 

Vanilla  ice  cream  with  strawberries 

Strawberry  ice  with  center  of  vanilla  or  strawberry  mousse 

Macaroon  ice  cream 

Lemon  ice  with  center  of  maraschino  mousse 

Coffee  caramel  par  fait 

Vanilla  mousse  with  broken  meringues  frozen  in  it 

Pistachio  ice  cream  with  nuts  or  with  peaches 

Neapolitan  ice  cream  (three  kinds  of  ice  cream  molded  in  brick 

mold) 
Cafe  parfait 
Frozen  pudding 
Strawberry  mousse 
Caramel  bisque 

Orange  ice  cream  with  crushed  strawberries 
Strawberry  ice  cream  between  slices  of  angel  cake,  covered  with 

chopped  sweetened  strawberries 

The  most  popular  sauces  to  serve  on  ice  creams  are : 

Butterscotch  Sauce 

Marshmallow  Sauce 

Chocolate  Sauce 

Nut  and  Fruit  Sauce 

Fresh  fruit  crushed  and  sweetened 


122  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

These  sauces  sell  separately  for  about  eighty  cents  a  pint. 
Butterscotch  Sauce 

In  saucepan  put 
lyi  cups  (^  pound)  brown  sugar 
Yz  cup  (J/2  pound)  corn  syrup  and 
4  tablespoons  butter.     Boil  to  230  degrees  F.,  and  add 
54  cup  thin  cream.     Serve  on  ice  cream  and  sprinkle  with 
Chopped  nuts.    This  sauce  may  be  kept  for  some  time.    Stir  well 
just  before  using. 

Nut  and  Fruit  Sauce 

Wash,  stone  and  cut  in  pieces 
5^  pound  dates;  cut  in  pieces 

I  cup  maraschino  cherries;  mix  and  add 
Yz  cup  maraschino  syrup 
I  lo-ounce  can  of  preserved  figs  cut  in  pieces  and 
Syrup  in  which  they  are  preserved.     Chill  thoroughly  and  just 
before  serving  add 
Yz  cup  almonds  blanched,  halved  and  browned  in  the  oven. 

If  you  have  not  the  facilities  for  making  or  molding  large 
quantities  of  ice  cream,  you  can  get  in  touch  with  a  large 
city  manufacturer  who  has  the  reputation  of  making  the 
best  ice  cream  of  anyone  about,  and  order  from  him  as 
required.  He  will  doubtless  give  you  a  commission,  prob- 
ably of  125^  per  cent,  on  all  that  you  sell  for  him. 

Cakes 

Little  cakes  and  cut  cake  may  be  served  at  the  Buffet  Spread. 
To  the  list  of  cakes  that  you  have  made  up  for  afternoon  teas, 
you  may  add: 

Pound  cake  Angel  cake 

Devil's  food  cake  Bride's  cake 

Sponge  cake  White  fruit  cake 

Accompaniments 

Olives       ^  Mints 

Stuffed  olives  Bonbons 

Salted  nuts  Tiny  hard  candies 

Candied  ginger  Chocolates 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  123 

MENUS  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS 

Following  are  menus  for  different  types  of  functions. 
Some  are  a  trifle  unusual  and  especially  delicious.  Others 
are  standard  and  submitted  by  first-class  caterers.  Where 
possible  the  cost  of  serving,  as  estimated  by  a  caterer,  is 
included  as  a  guide  to  you,  when  you  do  work  of  this  kind. 

Afternoon  Tea 

Menu  I 

MARMALADE   AND    STRAWBERRY   JAM    SANDWICHES 

CHOPPED  NUTS  AND  CREAMED  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 
LITTLE   CHOCOLATE  CAKES 

TEA   WITH    ORANGE    SUGAR 
SALTED    ALMONDS 

Menu  II 

CHOPPED   OLIVE    SANDWICHES 

TINY   CREAM    PUFFS    WITH    CHOPPED   PRESERVED   GINGER  AND 

CREAM-CHEESE    AS    FILLING 

SWEET    CHOCOLATE    SANDWICHES 

HAZEL   NUT   CAKES  BONBONS  SALTED    NUTS 

TEA  WITH   SLICED  LEMON  AND   WHOLE  CLOVES 

Menu  III 

PIMIENTO   CHEESE    SANDWICHES 

LETTUCE   AND    MAYONNAISE  DRESSING    SANDWICHES 

FROSTED  WAFERS  NOUGAT  SWEDISH  TEA  CAKES 

BOILED  COFFEE  WITH  CREAM 


Menu  IV 

MOSAIC    OR    RIBBON    SANDWICHES 

CHICKEN    AND    CREAM    CHEESE    SANDWICHES 

FROSTED  AFTERNOON  TEA  CAKES  FUDGE  SQUARES  SALTED  NUTS 

ORANGE   FRAPP^ 

BONBONS 

COFFEE  TEA 


124  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

A  Formal  Tea 

ASSORTED    SANDWICHES 
FANCY   ASSORTED   CAKE 

FRESH    STRAWBERRY    FRAPPE) 

OLIVES 

SALTED   ALMONDS  BONBONS 

PRESERVED    GINGER 

COFFEE  TEA 

100  persons — $i.oo  a  Plate 

The  More  Elaborate  Tea 

Menu  I 

LOBSTER   SALAD  TINY   BUTTERED    ROLLS 

JAM    AND   CHEESE    SANDWICHES  RIBBON    SANDWICHES 

STRAWBERRY    BOMBE  LITTLE    NUT    CAKES 

SPONGE    SQUARES  SALTED    ALMONDS 

TEA    WITH    CLOVES  COFFEE    WITH    CREAM 

BONBONS 

Menu  II 

MOLDED   CHICKEN    SALAD  CHOPPED   OLIVE   OR   PIMOLA    SANDWICHES 

BROWN  BREAD   SANDWICHES  HORSERADISH   BUTTER    SANDWICHES 

MACAROON    ICE    CREAM  LITTLE    SPONGE    CAKES 

FROSTED   TEA    CAKES  GLACE    FRUITS 

TEA  WITH  LEMON   SUGAR  CHOCOLATE   WITH   CREAM 

I  CANDIES 

Menu  III 

CHICKEN    AND    CLAM    BOUILLON 
TOASTED    CRACKERS 

PINEAPPLE    MOUSSE    SALAD 

CREAM    CAKES    WITH    CHEESE    FILLING 
FRUIT  PUNCH 


Prices  with   Buffet   Service 

One  successful  caterer  sends  out  the  following  menus.  The 
cost  includes  the  use  of  necessary  china,  silver  and  linen ;  also 
the  services  of  two  men  and  one  maid  to  assist  in  the  kitchen. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  125 

Menu  I 

SALMON   CUTLETS   AND  PEAS 

ROLLS 

SELECTED    ICE    CREAM 

FANCY  CAKE 

COFFEE 

50  persons  or  more — $1.60  each 

Menu  II 

CHICKEN  PATTY  A  LA   KING 

ASSORTED    SANDWICHES 

SELECTED    ICE    CREAM 

FANCY   CAKE 

COFFEE 

50  persons  or  more — $1.80  each 

Menu  III 

SWEETBREAD  CUTLETS 

FRUIT  SALAD 

ROLLS 

SELECTED   ICE   CREAM 

FANCY   CAKE 

COFFEE 

50  persons  or  more — $1.85  each 

Menu  IV 

TIMBALE    OF    CHICKEN — MOUSSELAINE    SAUCE 

WHOLE   SALMON   MAYONNAISE 

ROLLS 

SELECTED   ICE   CREAM 

FANCY  CAKES 

COFFEE 

50  persons  or  more — $1.90  each 

Menu  V 

LOBSTER    A    LA    NEWBERG    IN    RAMEKIN 

CHICKEN    SALAD 

ROLLS 

SELECTED   ICE   CREAM 

FANCY   CAKES 

COFFEE 

50  persons  or  more  $2,50  each 


126  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Evening  Receptions 
Menu  I 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM 
CKFt  PARFAIT 

FROZEN  PUDDING 
STRAWBERRY    MOUSSE 
RASPBERRY  BISQUE 
FANCY    FRUIT   AND    FLOWER    ICES 
FANCY    ASSORTED    CAKE 

COFFEE  FRUIT    LEMONADE 

100  persons — $i.oo  a  Plate 

Menu  II 

LOBSTER  SALAD  CHICKEN  SALAD 

ROLLS 
NEAPOLITAN   ICE   CREAM 
CAFE  PARFAIT 

FROZEN    PUDDING 

STRAWBERRY    MOUSSE 

RASPBERRY   BISQUE 
FANCY    FRUIT   AND    FLOWER   ICES 
FANCY    ASSORTED    CAKE 

COFFEE  FRUIT   LEMONADE 

100  persons — $1.50  a  Plate 

Wedding  Receptions  and  Breakfasts 

A  Simple  Menu 

PINEAPPLE    punch 
SPONGE  CAKES 

It  is  permissible  to  serve  only  a  punch  or  frappe  and  sweet 
crackers  or  cakes,  whether  the  wedding  takes  place  during  the  day 
or  in  the  evening.  If  the  weather  is  cool,  coffee  or  cocoa  may  be 
more  acceptable,  with  sandwiches  and  wafers  or  cakes. 

Simple  Menu  for  Cool  Weather 

coffee  with  whipped  cream 

cherry  and  nut  sandwiches 

wedding  cake  bonbons 

More  Elaborate  Menus 

Menu  I 

raspberry  bom  be 

baby  baltimore  cakes 

chocolate  peppermint  parfait 

bride's  cake 
grape  juice  punch        coffee 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  127 

Menu  II 

LOBSTER    SALAD 

WATERCRESS   SANDWICHES 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM 

LITTLE    WHITE    CAKES 

COFFEE 


Menu  III 

RASPBERRY    SHERBET    WITH    PHILADELPHIA    ICE    CREAM    IN    CENTER 
COFFEE    ICE    CREAM    WITH    VANILLA    MOUSSE    AND    NUTS    IN    CENTER 
ANGEL    CAKES    FROSTED    ALL   OVER 
PLAIN    SPONGE  CAKES 

LADY  FINGERS 
TINY   COCOANUT   CAKES 

TINY   NUT  CAKES   WITH   CHOCOLATE   FROSTING 
PUNCH  COFFEE 


Served  for  $i.oo  a  Plate 


Wedding  Supper 

fresh  salmon  in  aspic  jelly 

chicken  and  mushroom  croquettes 

fancy  rolls 

vanilla  parfait 

white  fruit  cake  wedding  cake 

coffee  fruit  punch 


Figuring  Cost  of  Afternoon  Tea  Menu 

PVom  previous  lessons  and  experience  you  should  have 
data  as  to  the  cost  of  sandwiches  and  little  cakes.  In  esti- 
mating the  cost  of  a  menu,  use  cards,  ruled  as  in  Lesson  II. 

Have  one  card  for  each  sandwich,  each  cake,  for  bever- 
ages, with  their  different  accompaniments,  and  for  nuts, 
oHves,  bonbons,  et  cetera. 

Then  copy  the  totals  from  each  card  onto  another  card 
as  follows,  using  cost  and  selling  price  of  foods.  It  will 
be  wise  to  make  out  a  card,  very  carefully,  for  each  menu 
that  you  propose  to  serve. 


128  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

AFTERNOON  TEA  MENU— SAMPLE  CARD 

(For  40) 

Selling  Price  Cost 

Marmalade  and  Jam  Sandwiches . .     5  doz.  $1.20  doz.  $6.00  $2.00 

Nut  and  Butter  Sandwiches 5  doz.  1.20  doz.  6.00  1.60 

Little  Chocolate  Cakes 5  doz.  .75  doz.  3.75  145 

Salted  Almonds   2]^  lbs.  1.50  lb.  3.75  2.72 

Tea   ^  lb.  i.oo  lb.          .50  iso 

Orange  Sugar  i  lb.  .50  lb.           .50  .50 

Lemons    J/^  doz.  .30  doz.        .15  .15 

Cream,  thin   i  pint  .40  pint        .40  .40 

Cups  and  Saucers 3%  doz.  .50  doz.  1.70  1.50 

Teaspoons   31^  doz.  .  .01  each       .40  .35 

Napkins  (cloth)    3%  doz.  .05  each  2.00  1.50 

Waitresses    2  .40  hour       .80  .80 

Transportation  5  mi. 

2  hours,  including  return  3.00  an  hr.  6.00  6.00 

Supervision,  etc 5.00 

$36.95  $19.47 
Catering  for  a  Large  Party 

Catering  for  a  large  party  may  not  be  beyond  your  pos- 
sibilities. The  following  description  of  a  successful  dancing 
party  will  show  a  supper  which  was  supervised  by  a  young 
woman  of  little  experience.  It  was  largely  prepared  in  her 
own  home. 

This  is  an  extract  from  her  letter: 

"The  dance  hall  was  finished  in  ivory  and  old  rose.  We  had 
festoons  of  paper  vines  and  wistaria  from  each  light  globe  and 
entirely  around  the  room  direct  from  the  ceiling;  in  the  space  be- 
tween each  window  were  huge  shower  bouquets  of  real  roses,  four 
dozen  to  the  bouquet,  and  at  each  drape  at  the  windows  and  doors 
were  like  bouquets  of  roses;  at  opposite  ends  of  the  room  were  tall 
floor  lamps  and  at  opposite  sides  were  tall  candle  stands  of  fifteen 
cathedral  candles;  tall  stands  with  bird  cages  were  in  various 
corners.  The  punch  table  was  in  one  corner  and  also  decorated  with 
roses. 

"The  supper  room  was  decorated  the  same  way;  a  huge  bouquet 
of  roses  formed  the  center  piece,  and  festoons  of  roses  and  tulle 
decorated  the  tablecloth.     Everything  was  served  in  silver  dishes. 


CATERING  FOR  SOCIAL  OCCASIONS  12& 

There  were  thirteen  cakes,  half  white  frosting,  half  pink;  they  were 
8  inches  wide  by  12  inches  long,  one  layer,  nearly  2  inches  thick; 
these  were  served  in  whole  cakes,  one  of  each  color,  cut  21  squares 
to  a  cake,  in  a  large  silver  tray,  just  the  size  needed.  There  were 
1,000  sandwiches,  500  made  of  ham,  ground  in  a  meat  grinder  and 
mixed  with  sweet  pickle  and  mayonnaise,  the  other  500  made  of 
cream  cheese,  stuffed  olives,  pimiento,  celery  and  mayonnaise.  These 
were  served  on  silver  plates.  Ten  pounds  of  pecans  and  almonds 
mixed  were  salted  after  being  cooked  in  olive  oil.  These  were 
served  in  a  large  tall  silver  bowl.  Coffee  was  served  from  a  silver 
urn  placed  at  one  end  of  the  table. 

"Pink  mints  and  long  slender  candy  sticks,  and  individual  ice 
creams  in  the  shape  of  a  full  blown  rose  completed  the  refreshments 
for  a  party  of  200." 


REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Lessons    in    Cooking,   Through    Preparation   of   Meals,    Robinson 

and  Hammel,  $2.50. 
Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  $2.50. 
New  Book  of  Cookery,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  $2.50. 
Company  Cooking  and  Correct  Table  Service,  Alice  Bradley,  $0.15. 
Table  Service,  Lucy  G.  Allen,  $1.75. 
Paul  Richards'  Pastry  Book,,  $2.50. 
Mrs.  A.  B.  Marshall's  Larger  Cookery  Bock  of  Extra  Recipes, 

Marshall's  School  of  Cookery,  London,  England. 
The  Ideal  Cookery  Book,  M.  A.  Fairclough. 
Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty,  Frances  Lowe  Smith,  $2.00. 
More  Recipes  for  Fifty,  Frances  Lowe  Smith,  $2.00. 
New  Day  Drinks,  Alice  Bradley,  California  Fruit  Growers  Ass*n, 

Los  Angeles,  Cal.,  free. 
Salads,  Sandwiches  and  Chafing  Dish  Dainties,  Janet  M.  Hill,  $2.00. 


130  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

QUESTIONS  IN  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

VI 

Catering  for  Social  Occasions 

Estimate  the  cost  of  serving  Menu  II  (Buffet  Service), 
page  125,  to  50  persons,  as  follows,  giving  all  data: 

1.  Recipes  for  50  people  for  each  dish. 

2.  Estimate  time  required  for  preparation  of  each  dish. 

3.  Cost  of  preparation  at  50  cents  an  hour. 

4.  Total  of  each  dish,  and  its  selling  price. 

5.  Market  order  and  cost  of   food  material  required  for 

the  menu,  at  your  local  prices. 

6.  Estimate  cost  of  china,  silver  and  linen  for  50  from 

tables  on  pages  102  and  128. 

7.  Wages  for  2  men  and  i  maid  as  paid  where  you  are 

now  located. 

8.  Total  cost  of  overhead  if  work  were  done  in  your  own 

kitchen. 

9.  Cost  of  truck  or  taxi  for  transporting  everything  2  miles. 

10.  Any  other  costs  that  you  may  think  of. 

11.  Possible  profit  for  yourself.* 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
VII 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  VII 


CATERING  FOR   SPECIAL  LUNCHEONS  AND 
SUPPERS 

advertising;  table  decorations;  menus;  fruit  cocktails; 

soups;  fish  course;  entrees;  main  course;  vegetables; 

SALADS ;  desserts  ;  children's  parties  ;  menus  for  special 

and  holiday  parties 

MANY  women  vi^ho  have  had  experience  in  cooking 
and  serving  company  meals  in  their  own  or  in 
other  people's  kitchens,  find  profit  in  preparing 
meals  for  special  occasions  at  the  home  of  the  person  who 
is  entertaining. 

If  to  a  knowledge  of  cooking  is  added  artistic  ability  that 
can  be  displayed  in  planning  and  arranging  decorations, 
favors  and  menus  in  accordance  with  special  occasions,  a 
woman  will  find  few  unengaged  days  during  the  whole 
season. 

The  best  way  to  advertise  such  a  business  is  probably  to 
send  out  an  announcement  card  something  like  the  follow- 
ing to  women  who  entertain  frequently. 

Almost  no  capital  is  needed  in  order  to  start  such  a  busi- 
ness, but  a  very  practical  knowledge  of  all  kinds  of  good 
cookery  is  essential.  When  no  entertaining  is  being  done, 
you  can  go  once  or  twice  a  week  to  a  few  people  and  cook 
enough  food  to  last  several  days. 

131 


132 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Catering  for  Luncheon  and  Supper  Parties 

You  will  probably  be  called  on  the  phone  and  asked  if 
you  are  free  on  a  certain  date.     On  replying  that  you  are 


FIRST    PAGE    OF    AN    ADVERTISING    CARD 


free,  a  time  will  be  set  for  you  to  go  to  the  home  of  the 
hostess  and  discuss  with  her  the  menu  she  is  to  have. 

You  must  be  able  tactfully  to  make  suggestions,  or 
graciously  to  follow  her  ideas  as  to  the  number  and  kind 
of  courses,  the  style  of  decorations,  and  other  details.  For 
her  selection  you  may  have  a  list  of  dishes,  and  combina- 
tions for  each  course  that  will  be  served. 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS        133 

After  the  menu  is  planned,  a  complete  list  of  all  the 
supplies  required  for  the  meal  should  be  carefully  made 
out.     It  will  be  well  to  go  into  the  kitchen  of  the  hostess 


DO  YOU  want  a -tempting  luncheon 
for  company,  a  simple  or  elaborate 
dinner  for  guests?  Let  me  pre- 
pare it  for  you  while  you  are  entertain- 
ing your  friends. 

Let  me  come  in  for  a  day  and  "cook 
you  up  ahead"  for  several  days.  My 
rolls  will  keep  tender,  my  roast  will  last 
for  three  or  four  meals.  My  pot  of 
clear  bouillon  made  up  with  different 
flavors  will  make  a  first  course  for  a 
number  of  dinners.  My  pies,  cakes, 
cookies  and  puddings  will  put  something 
to  eat  on  your  pantry  shelves  and  my 
luncheon  dishes  will  be  all  ready  for  you 
to  heat  up  and  place  on  the  table.  For 
several  days  after  a  day  spent  with  you 
dainty  dishes  can  appear  like  magic  at 
meal  time. 

Consultations  in  regard  to  menus  and 
prices  may  be  arranged  for  by  mail  or 
phone. 

Miss  Mary  C.  Brennan 

921  Havard  Street,  Brookline 
Telephone  Brookline  799 

References  on  Request 


COPY  OF  AN  ADVERTISING  CARD 

and  see  what  supplies  are  on  hand,  and  if  she  has  all  the 
equipment  necessary  for  preparing  the  meal  as  outlined. 

Most  women  find  it  necessary  to  take  with  them  measur- 
ing cups  and  spoons,  one  or  two  sharp  knives,  special  cutters 
and  beaters  and  molds. 

The  marketing  may  be  done  by  the  hostess  or  the  person 
who  prepares  the  meal. 


134  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

The  price  charged  depends  upon  the  number  of  persons 
to  be  served  and  ranges  from  five  dollars  a  meal  up,  accord- 
ing to  the  elaborateness  of  the  meal  and  the  number  served. 
It  is  all  clear  profit  as  all  supplies  are  charged  to  the  hostess. 

Table  Decorations 

The  decorations  for  the  table  usually  include  a  center- 
piece which  should  be  low  enough  or  high  enough  not  to 
obstruct  the  view  across  the  table.  This  may  be  of  flowers 
of  appropriate  colors,  or  tiny  dressed  figures  suitable  to  the 
occasion. 

A  Jack  Horner  Pie  of  crepe  paper,  containing  favors,  is 
frequently  used  as  a  centerpiece.  If  it  is  in  the  form  of  a 
huge  turkey  it  is  appropriate  for  Thanksgiving. 

A  lovely  and  enormous  white  crepe  paper  rose  is  appro- 
priate for  an  engagement  or  a  bridal  luncheon. 

A  stunning  gray  battleship  of  paper  with  tiny  figures  in 
uniform  would  grace  the  table  at  a  luncheon  for  a  navy 
man. 

A  chimney  of  crepe  paper  colored  to  represent  bricks, 
with  a  paper  Santa  Claus  mounted  on  cardboard,  and  hold- 
ing on  his  back  a  brown  paper  bag  from  which  protrude 
the  family's  presents,  would  be  the  delight  of  any  Christ- 
mas party. 

There  are  yellow  tulip  pies,  and  rose  pies  of  all  shades 
to  celebrate  the  luncheon  given  to  the  returning  college  girl. 

All  these  centerpieces  contain  hidden  favors  which  are 
attached  to  different  colored  ribbons  leading  to  the  seat  of 
each  guest. 

Other  decorations  may  consist  of  appropriate  place  cards, 
individual  favors,  a  small  basket  of  fresh  flowers,  a  small  box 
of  candy  or  a  single  but  very  beautiful  flower  at  each  place. 

It  will  be  to  your  advantage  to  visit  or  otherwise  keep 
in  touch  with  favor  shops  in  large  cities.     Study  the  sug- 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS       186 

gestions  found  in  magazines  and  originate  or  modify  ideas. 
Keep  a  scrap  book  and  note  book. 

Candle  Sticks 

Candles  are  not  used  for  a  luncheon  but  may  be  part 
of  the  supper  decorations. 

Where  sufficient  candles  are  used  they  make  the  only 
light  provided. 

Points  for  the  Caterer  to  Remember 

Take  the  greatest  care  of  the  hostess'  possessions. 

Show  consideration  for  other  help  in  the  house. 

Work  in  harmony  with  the  help. 

Do  not  demand  too  much  of  the  help. 

Be  neat  in  appearance. 

Be  agreeable  in  demeanor. 

Waitresses 

The  woman  who  prepares  the  meal  is  not  expected  to 
serve,  but  she  may  be  asked  to  engage  the  waiters  or 
waitresses,  having  one  maid  for  each  six  guests. 

Luncheon  Menus 

A  luncheon  menu  may  consist  of  five  or  six  courses. 

1.  A  fruit  course  or  shell  fish  or  fish  cocktail. 

2.  A  bouillon  or  cream  soup  with  croutons,  crackers  or 

rolls. 

3.  A  fish  or  entree  course  if  desired. 

4.  A  main  dish  in  individual  services  with  two  vegetables. 

5.  A  salad  with  a  cheese  accompaniment  or  a  sandwich. 

6.  Dessert,  nuts,  bonbons  and  coffee. 

For  special  hohdays  and  other  occasions,  the  color  scheme 
of  centerpiece  and  favors,  and  the  decorations  of  many  of 


136  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

the  dishes  can  be  such  as  to  suggest  the  special  emblem  for 
that  day.  With  slight  changes  most  menus  suggested  in 
this  chapter  can  be  adapted  to  every-day  affairs  or  for  a 
different  holiday. 

Supper  Menus 

A  supper  menu  may  be  similar  to  that  for  a  buffet 
luncheon  or  a  spread  as  suggested  in  Part  VI,  page  no. 
Ordinarily  the  guests  will  be  seated  at  the  table  rather  than 
be  served  while  standing. 

Be  sure  the  foods  you  select  are  obtainable  at  the  time 
the  meal  is  to  be  served. 

Do  not  repeat  flavors  or  foods  in  a  menu ! 

For  instance,  do  not  serve  tomato  soup  and  tomato  in 
the  salad. 

Let  each  course  be  a  contrast  in  color  to  the  one  that 
precedes  or  follows  it,  unless  you  are  carrying  out  a  spe- 
cial color  scheme. 

The  Fruit  Course 

The  fruit  course  may  be  of  one  fruit,  a  mixture  of  fruits, 
or  one  or  several  fruit  juices.  The  fruit  selected  or  its 
garnish  may  be  of  a  color  that  matches  the  color  scheme 
selected  for  the  table  decorations. 

How  TO  Serve  the  Fruit  Course 

This  course  may  be  on  the  table  when  the  guests  enter 
the  dining  room.  The  fruit  should  be  thoroughly  chilled 
and  attractively  garnished. 

The  fruit  may  be  served  in 

1.  Single  glasses  similar  to  a  champagne  glass. 

2.  In  a  double  cocktail  glass,  the  inside  glass  being  sur- 

rounded with  crushed  ice. 

3.  In  the  skin  of  the  fruit,  as  grapefruit,  orange  or  canta- 

loupe. 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS      137 

4.  Sections  of  fruit  or  perfect  whole  berries,  arranged  on  a 
small  flat  plate  with  a  mound  of  powdered  sugar  in 
the  center. 

Cocktails 

A  cocktail  glass  is  served  on  a  small  plate  covered  with 
a  doily  with  the  spoon  on  the  right-hand  side  of  the  plate. 

Fruit  cocktails,  made  of  fruit  juices  or  fruit,  are  best 
sweetened  with  a  syrup  made  of  equal  parts  of  sugar  and 
water  cooked  3  minutes. 

A  crabmeat,  lobster,  or  a  scallop  cocktail  may  be  served 
in  place  of  fruit.  The  arrangement  is  the  same,  substitut- 
ing an  oyster  fork  for  the  spoon  if  the  cocktail  is  served 
in  a  glass.  Other  arrangements  for  fish  cocktails  will  be 
given  in  the  next  lesson. 

Fruit  Cocktail  Suggestions 

(Those  with  unequal  proportions  of  fruits) 

NAME  METHOD 

Apple  Cocktail  Apple  strips  covered  with  applju  or 

sweet  cider,  packed  in  ice  and  salt  until 
mixture  is  mushy.  Served  with  mara- 
schino cherries  cut  in  strips  and  whipped 
cream. 

Frozen  Oranges  Whole  Oranges  packed  in  ice  and  salt  until 

very  cold.  Served  cut  in  halves  with 
powdered  sugar. 

Grapefruit  and  Straw-  Sections    of    grapefruit    cut    in    thin 

BERRY  Cocktail  I  slices,  with  slices  of  strawberries;  gar- 

nish of  sprigs  of  mint,  and  sauce  of 
honey  and  lemon  juice. 

Roman   Grapefruit  Grapefruit   pulp    seasoned   with    salt, 

Roman  punch  and  sugar  and  chilled. 
Garnished  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  sugar  and  Roman  punch,  and  with 
maraschino  cherries. 


138 


COOKING  -FOR  PROFIT 


Strawberry  Cocktail  I 
Strawberry  Cocktail  II 

Strawberry  Cocktail  III 

Winter  Fruit  Cocktail 

Cassaba  Melon 
Pineapple  Cocktail 

Butterfly  Cocktail 


Large  strawberries  cut  in  quarters. 
Served  with  a  preserved  marron  cut  in 
small  pieces,  sprinkled  with  syrup  from 
bottle  of  marrons  and  served  very  cold. 

Unhulled  strawberries  and  grapefruit 
sections  arranged  on  plate  and  a  sauce 
of  maraschino  cordial,  powdered  sugar 
and  salt  put  in  center  glass  and  garnish 
of   sprig  of  mint. 

Combination  of  grapefruit  juice,  fresh 
strawberry  juice,  lemon  juice,  honey, 
sugar  and  White  Rock.    Serve  very  cold. 

Grapefruit  pulp,  orange  pulp,  and 
banana  cut  in  small  pieces,  with  Malaga 
grapes  and  walnuts.     Serve  very  cold. 

Sections  of  ipelon  served  very  cold. 

Portions  of  fresh  pineapple,  covered 
with  syrup  of  sugar,  water,  ofange  juice 
and  grapefruit  juice  and  colored  pink. 

A  slice  of  pineapple  cut  in  two  and 
rounded  edges  placed  together.  Deco- 
rated with  bits  of  candied  cherry,  plum, 
angelica  and  pistachio  nuts  for  wing 
spots  and  lines.  Body  made  of  whipped 
cream,  and  ornamented  with  paprika 
and  cress. 


(Fruit  Cocktails  containing  about  even  proportions  of  fruit) 


Fruit  Cup 


Cassaba  Cocktail 


White  Cherry  Cocktail 


Mixture  of  white  grapes,  pineapple, 
oranges  and  strawberries  in  equal  pro- 
portions. Season  with  sugar,  salt,  orange 
juice  and  pineapple  syrup.  Pack  in  ice 
and  salt  until  barely  frozen,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Pulp  of  Cassaba  melon  mixed  with  an 
equal  amount  of  Tokay  grapes.  Flavor 
with  maraschino  syrup  and  salt. 

Mixture  of  white  cherries,  pineapple 
and  grapefruit.  Served  with  dressing 
made  of  maraschino  syrup,  pineapple 
syrup,  cherry  syrup,  lemon  juice  and 
salt. 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS      139 


Canned  Fruit  Cocktail 


Grapefruit  and  Straw- 
berry Cocktail  II 


Equal  parts  of  sliced  bananas,  canned 
pears  and  canned  peaches.  Served  with 
sauce  of  pineapple  syrup,  sugar  and 
orange  juice. 

Grapefruit  pulp,  sliced  strawberries 
and  sliced  kumquats  piled  in  grapefruit 
baskets.  Served  with  sauce  of  mashed 
strawberries  and  sugar. 


Preparation  of  Fruit  for  the  Fruit  Course 

Special  care  must  always  be  taken  to  prepare  fruit  neatly 
and  attractively  when  served  at  a  company  luncheon. 


FRUIT 
Grapefruit 


METHOD 

Cut  the  grapefruit  across  the  sections 
in  half.  Loosen  the  pulp  around  the  in- 
side by  cutting  between  the  pulp  and  the 
skin,  then  loosen  each  section  by  cutting 
between  the  pulp  and  the  membrane. 

Loosen  the  membrane  underneath  at 
the  center  of  the  fruit  with  a  grapefruit 
knife  or  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  lift  it 
out  entirely  leaving  the  fruit  in  its  shell 
in  its  original  shape.  Garnish  or  dec- 
orate each  half,  or  take  out  the  sections 
of  fruit,  cut  in  two  and  use  in  a  fruit 
cocktail. 


To  Remove  Pulp  from 
Oranges  and  Grape- 
fruit 


Pare  the  fruit  with  a  sharp  knife,  re- 
moving every  particle  of  the  thin  inside 
membrane  with  the  peel.  This  will  leave 
the  pulp  exposed.  Hold  the  fruit  over  a 
plate,  so  that  any  juice  which  may  drop 
will  be  saved.  Insert  the  point  of  the 
knife  at  the  stem  end  of  the  fruit  close 
to  the  membrane  that  divides  the  sec- 
tions. Carefully  work  the  knife  in, 
separating  the  membrane  from  the  sec- 
tion. Then  carefully  separate  the  section 
of  fruit  from  the  membrane  on  its  other 
side;  remove  the  whole  section,  complete 
in  shape,  and  entirely  free  from  mem- 
brane. Repeat  until  all  the  sections  are 
removed. 


140 
Apples 

Bananas 
White  Grapes 
Strawberries 
Melons 
Pineapple 
Alligator  Pears 

Peaches 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Pare,  cut  in  cubes  or  strips  and  cover 
with  lemon  juice  or  with  i  quart  of  cold 
water  to  which  i  teaspoon  of  salt  has 
been  added,  until  ready  to  use. 

Remove  skins,  scrape  and  cut  in  pieces 
just  before  they  are  to  be  used. 

Remove  skins  and  seeds  using  a  small 
sharp  vegetable  knife. 

Dip  strawberries  one  at  a  time  in  cold 
water  and  remove  hulls  if  desired. 

Chill  thoroughly,  cut  in  sections  and 
serve,  or  cut  pulp  in  uniform  pieces. 

Use  fresh  or  canned  pineapple.  Cut 
in  cylinders   or  cubes. 

Cut  in  two,  remove  stones  and  serve 
thoroughly  chilled  or  cut  in  pieces  qi 
uniform  size. 

Dip  for  a  moment  in  boiling  water  to 
loosen  the  skin,  and  remove  skin  with  a 
silver  knife;  use  as  soon  as  chilled. 


Soups 

A  clear  bouillon  or  a  cream  soup  may  be  served  at  a 
luncheon.     The  bouillon  may  be  hot  or  jellied. 

The  bouillon  cup  and  saucer  are  placed  on  the  service 
plate,  handles  directly  parallel  to  the  edge  of  the  table. 

Fruit  juice  sweetened,  slightly  thickened  and  chilled  is 
sometimes  served  and  takes  the  place  both  of  a  cocktail 
and  a  soup. 


Foundation  Soup  Recipes 

The  foundation  of  a  bouillon  is  a  beef,  chicken  or  fish 
stock  cleared  with  whites  of  eggs  and  always  strained 
through  double  cheesecloth. 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS      141 

Many  cream  soups  are  a  combination  of  thin  white  sauce, 
strained  vegetable  pulp  and  meat  or  vegetable  stock. 
Recipes  can  be  found  in  almost  any  good  cook  book. 

Suggestions  for  Luncheon  Bouillons 

Beef  Bouillon. 

Clam  Bouillon  with  or  without  whipped  cream  and  a 
dash  of  paprika. 

Chicken  Bouillon  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 
Tomato  Bouillon  with  or  without  oysters. 

Luncheon  Cream  Soups 

Any  cream  of  vegetable  soup  such  as  the  following  is 
suitable  to  serve  at  a  luncheon. 

Artichoke  soup 

Puree  of  Rice  and  Chicken  Stock 

Andalusian  Soup,  (tomato  soup  with  macaroni  or  tapioca) 

Cream  of  Brussels  Sprouts 

Beetroot  Soup 

Cream  of  Peanut  Butter  Soup 

Cream  of  Sorrel  Soup 

Cream  of  Lettuce  Soup 

Puree  Parisienne  (Cream  of  potato) 

Bisque  of  Scallops 

Scallop  and  Mushroom  Soup 

Bisque  of  Clams 

Cauliflower  Soup 

Cream  of  Oyster  Plant  Soup 

Cream  of  Corn  and  Tomato  Soup 

Pimiento  Bisque 

Cream  of  Chestnut  Soup 

Cream  of  Almond  Soup 

Cream  of  Watercress  Soup 

Bisque  of  Oysters 

Soup  Accompaniments 

An  accompaniment  to  the  soup  course  may  be  on  each 
bread  and  butter  plate  or  may  be  passed  after  the  soup  is 
served : 


142  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Crisp  Crackers — Crackers  spread  with  butter  and  delicately  crisped 

in  the  oven. 
Imperial  Sticks — Strips  of  buttered  bread  toasted  in  the  oven 
Souffled  Crackers — Crackers  soaked  in  ice  water  and  baked  until 

puffed  and  brown 
Popped  Corn 
Pulled  Bread 
Bread  Sticks 
Parmesan  Cheese  Sticks 

Croutons — small  cubes  of  bread  toasted  in  oven  or  fried 
Oyster  Crackers 
Brown  Bread  and  Butter 
Toasted  Triangles  of  Bread 
Mock  Almonds — thin  toast  the  size  and  shape  of  almonds 

Celery,  radishes,  or  olives  are  usually  served  after  the 
soup  has  been  placed. 

Fish  Course 

A  delicate  fish  course  is  sometimes  served  preceding  the 
meat  course  at  luncheon,  or  it  may  take  the  place  of  the 
meat  course  or  the  entree. 

This  may  be  arranged  in  the  kitchen  on  individual  plates, 
or  fish  plates  may  be  placed  in  front  of  each  guest  and 
the  fish  attractively  garnished  may  be  served  on  a  platter 
or  a  fish  plate. 

Fish  should  always  be  very  fresh,  and  served,  if  possible, 
free  frOm  skin  and  bone.  Fish  may  be  fried,  steamed  or 
baked  and  should  be  served  vi^ith  a  nice  sauce. 

Consult  the  markets  as  to  the  best  fish  to  serve,  and 
cook  books  for  attractive  methods  of  serving. 

Sliced  tomatoes  or  cucumbers  served  in  some  attractive 
manner  and  dressed  with  French  dressing  are  a  good  accom- 
paniment for  the  fish  course. 

Luncheon  Entrees 

An  entree,  which  is  a  made  dish,  may  take  the  place  of 
the  fish  course,  or  may  be  used  for  the  main  course  at  a 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS      143 

luncheon.  The  hot  dishes  suggested  in  Lesson  VI  may  be 
used  or  any  of  the  following.  Many  other  suggestions 
will  be  found  in  good  cook  books.  A  delicately  flavored 
sauce  is  an  important  part  of  most  entrees.  A  delicate 
vegetable  with  a  rich  sauce  is  sometimes  served  as  an 
entree. 

A  Few  Pleasing  Entrees 

Eggs,  hard  cooked  or  poached,  in  individual  dishes  with  a  rich 
sauce.  These  or  other  egg  dishes  may  be  used  as  the  first 
course  at  a  luncheon. 

Stuffed  Mushroom  Caps 

Shrimps  and  Mushrooms  with  a  good  sauce 

Scallops  creamed  or  fried 

Oyster  and  Shrimp  Newburg 

Lobster  in  a  cream  sauce,  served  in  pastry  boats  or  patty  cases 

Chicken  and  Mushroom  Timbales 

Chicken,  Ham  or  Fish  Mousse — (Raw  meat  combined  with  heavy 
cream  and  tgg  whites  and  steamed  or  baked). 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom  Patties 

Devilled  Crabs 

Sweetbreads  in  Ramekins 


Main  Course 

Where  a  substantial  fish  course  or  entree  has  been  served 
no  other  meat  course  is  necessary,  but  the  following  meats 
may  follow  or  be  used  in  place  of  the  fish  or  entree  courses 
mentioned  above.  They  should  be  attractively  served.  One 
or  more  vegetables  often  are  used  for  garnish, 

A  Few  Delicious  Luncheon  Meats 

Veal  Cutlets,  with  or  without  thin  slices  of  ham 
Beef  Tenderloin,  broiled,  with  mushrooms 

Sweetbreads,  braised,  with  French  chestnuts  and  mushroom  sauce 
Sweetbreads   with  French  peas. 

Sweetbreads  and  hard  cooked  eggs  in  sauce,  served  in  pastry  cases 
Lamb  Chops  stuffed  with  mushrooms  or  horseradish  dressing 
Lamb  Chops,  breaded,  mushroom  or  truffle  sauce. 
Kernels  or  Tournedos  of  Lamb  (the  lean  part  of  chops),  broiled 
with  currant  mint  sauce,  bacon,  savory  potatoes,  or  mint  jelly 


144  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Lamb   Chops  with  mashed  potato  roses,  broiled  ham,  artichoke 

bottoms  and  mushroom  caps. 
Fried  Chicken 
Roast  Incubator  Chickens 

Chicken  Breasts  stuffed  with  mushrooms,  cream  sauce. 
Chicken  baked  in  cream 
Guinea  chicken  breasts,  broiled  or  baked,  with  ham  in  thin  slices, 

and  brown  sauce 
Pigeon  Pie 
Squabs  en  Casserole 

Potatoes 

Potatoes  served  at  a  luncheon  should  be  attractive  in 
appearance  and  taste,  such  as: 

Mashed  potatoes,  beaten  until  light  or  forced  through  pastry  bag 

and  rose  tube 
'Mashed  potatoes  with  cheese,  or  chopped  parsley  or  pimiento 
Mashed  potatoes   covered  with   whipped  cream  and  with  grated 

cheese  or  bread  crumbs  and  baked 
Mashed  potatoes  shaped  like  apples  or  pears  and  baked 
Creamed  potatoes  sprinkled  with  parsley 
Creamed  potatoes  covered  with  buttered  crumbs  and  baked 
Creamed  potatoes  with  grated  cheese  or  chopped  green  pepper  or 

pimientos 
Potatoes  baked  and  stuffed 
Potato  balls 

Potatoes  fried — ^as  French  fried,  shredded,  balls,  curls,  etc. 
Potato  croquettes 
Sweet  potatoes,  creamed 
Sweet  potatoes  candied 
Sweet  potatoes  with  orange  sections,  bananas,  prunes,  white  grapes 

or  cooked  apple  sections 
Sweet  potatoes  mashed 

Luncheon  Vegetables 

The  tender  and  less  common  vegetables  should  be  used 
for  special  luncheon  and  dinner  menus.  They  should  be 
very  carefully  prepared  and  served  as  attractively  as  pos- 
sible. 

Suggestions 

French  artichokes  with  Hollandaise  or  Mousselaine  Sauce 
Artichoke  Bottoms  with  peas,  mushrooms  or  other  vegetables 
Asparagus  on  toast  with  butter  or  a  rich  sauce 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS       145' 

Brussels  Sprouts  with  white  sauce 

Brussels  Sprouts  with  celery 

Carrots  and  Peas 

Carrot  Timbales 

Cauliflower  with  white  sauce  and  cheese 

Cauliflower  with  Hollandaise  or  Mousselaine  Sauce 

Celery  creamed  or  braised 

Corn  fritters 

Corn  Souffle 

Egg  Plant  Timbales  or  Scallop 

French  Endive  braised  with  melted  butter 

Leeks  on  Toast 

New  Lima  Beans 

Mushrooms  creamed  or  stuffed 

Oyster  plant  creamed 

Stuffed  Peppers 

String  Beans 

Green  Peas 

Spinach  with  e^gg 

Spinach  Souffle 

Spinach  Timbales 

Tomatoes  baked  or  sauted  with  a  sauce 

Tomatoes  stuffed 

Mixed  vegetables  en  casserole 

Rolls  to  Serve  with  a  Luncheon 

These  should  be  fresh,  small  and  delicately  brown. 

Butterfly  Rolls 

Cream  Bread  Fingers 

Luncheon  Rolls,  heart  or  flag  shape  for  special  occasions 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Salad  or  Dinner  Rolls 

Clover  Leaf  or  Shamrock  Biscuit 

Sweet  French  Rolls 

Crossett  Rolls 

Luncheon  Salads 

A  luncheon  salad  may  be  more  substantial  than  that 
served  for  a  dinner.  It  may  be  arranged  on  individual 
plates,  or  on  a  large  dish  and  passed  that  each  guest  may 
help  herself. 

Salads  suggested  in  Lesson  VI  and  made  of  many  other 
fruits  and  vegetables  alone  or  in  combination  may  be  served 


146  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

at   a  luncheon.     Mayonnaise   dressing,   plain  or   combined 
with  cream,  chili  sauce,  et  cetera,  may  be  served. 

Do  not  serve  a  fruit  salad  if  a  jEirst  course  of  fruit  has 
been  served.  It  is  not  necessary  to  serve  a  dessert  if  a 
fresh  fruit  salad,  or  one  that  has  been  jellied  or  frozen 
has  been  served  with  a  cream  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Salad  Accompaniments 

Whatever  is  offered  should  be  something  to  bring  out, 
rather  than  to  overpower,  the  flavor  and  seasonings  of 
the  salad. 

Cheese  croquettes — served  with  salad  greens  simply  dressed 

Cheese  balls — served  with  salad  greens  simply  dressed 

Crackers,  thin,  unsweetened,  buttered,  sprinkled  with  mild  paprika, 

and  heated.     Served  with  fruit  salads. 
Simple  sandwiches 

Baking  powder  biscuits,  fresh  and  hot 
Cheese  straws 
Graham  bread  and  butter 

Desserts 

For  suggestions  for  ice  cream,  cakes,  bonbons,  et  cetera, 
consult  previous  lessons  in  this  course,  and  standard  cook 
books.  Let  your  ingenuity  suggest  special  decorations  for 
the  holidays. 

Color  and  arrangement  of  whipped  cream,  frosting,  can- 
died fruits,  tiny  candies,  nuts,  et  cetera,  may  be  made  to 
be  typical  of  the  special  day,  as  green  for  St.  Patrick,  red 
for  St.  Valentine,  and  patriotic  holidays,  heart  shapes  for 
St.  Valentine  and  engagement  luncheons,  and  so  on. 

Bonbons,  mints  and  other  candies,  the  color  in  keeping 
with  the  decorations,  may  be  on  the  table  during  the 
luncheon  and  passed  after  the  dessert.  Salted  nuts  may 
be  on  the  table  in  individual  dishes  or  in  two  large  dishes. 

The  coffee  may  be  brought  in  after  the  dessert  or  may 
be  served  in  the  drawing  room. 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS      147 

Decorations  for  Finger  Bowls 

Finger  bowls,  one-fourth  full  of  tepid  water,  which  are 
brought  in  after  the  fruit  course,  or  with  the  dessert  plates, 
may  be  garnished  with  a  few  petals  from  the  same  flowers 
that  are  used  in  the  decoration  of  the  table.  A  few  drops 
of  rose  or  violet  water  are  sometimes  added. 

Children's  Parties 

For  children's  parties  the  dishes  selected  should  be  suit- 
able to  the  age  of  the  child.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  serve 
to  children  such  combinations  of  food  as  may  make  them 
ill  afterward. 

If  the  children's  party  is  also  a  birthday  party,  special 
pains  should  be  taken  to  provide  a  birthday  cake  with  favors 
inside  and  with  the  right  number  of  candles  blazing  on 
the  cake. 

Birthday  cake  boards,  round,  plain  or  decorated,  with 
space  for  the  cake  in  the  center  and  holes  for  candles  around 
the  edge,  may  be  purchased  at  many  kitchen  furnishing 
and  other  shops. 

Animal  crackers  dipped  in  sugar  syrup  which  has  been 
cooked  to  the  crack,  and  then  attached  to  small  crackers, 
make  an  attractive  table  decoration  when  formed  into  a 
procession  marching  around  the  table  just  inside  of  the 
plates. 

Individual  ice  creams  in  animal  shapes  are  always  attrac- 
tive. Toys  representing  stories  with  which  the  children 
are  familiar  are  an  effective  table  decoration.  Toy  balloons 
hanging  from  the  doors,  windows  and  chandeliers  of  the 
dining  room  make  a  pretty  effect.  Bonbons  containing  toy 
hats  of  paper  may  be  at  each  plate. 

If  possible,  have  something  for  each  child  to  take  home. 
An  individual  basket  of  candy,  a  balloon,  a  toy  of  some 


148  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

kind,   or   a   small   musical   instrument   will   all   give   much 
pleasure  to  the  small  guest. 

Entertainment  for  Children's  Parties 

It  is  not  easy  to  give  a  successful  children's  party.  Many 
<:hildren  demand  a  good  deal  of  entertaining.  Practically 
every  moment  of  the  afternoon  should  be  planned  before- 
hand so  games  will  follow  each  other  smoothly  and  with 
sufficient  variety  to  prevent  restlessness  and  consequent 
loss  of  interest. 

There  are  Mother  Goose  Parties,  and  Fairy  Story  Parties, 
May  Parties,  Doll  Shows,  and  many  other  kinds  of  parties 
which  appeal  especially  to  the  young  members  of  the  neigh- 
borhood. 

Most  of  the  women's  magazines  issue  booklets  giving 
suggestions  for  children's  parties  and  delightful  books  are 
suggested  at  the  end  of  this  chapter. 

"When  is  the  party  going  to  commence?"  You  should  re- 
member that  to  a  child  the  party  means  refreshments,  and 
not  spend  too  much  time  on  entertainment  before  the  supper 
is  served. 

MENUS  FOR  SPECIAL  OCCASIONS 
St.  Valentine  Spread 

Menu  I 

TOMATO    BISQUE 

CREAMED    SWEETBREADS    IN    HEART-SHAPED   TIMBALE   CASES 

HAM   MOUSSE  IN    HEART   SHAPES 

SANDWICHES   IN    HEART   SHAPES    SPREAD    WITH    PIMIENTO   BUTTER 

ICE    CREAM    TARTE 

{4  meringue  hearts  put  together  with  pink  ice  cream  between) 
WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE        (heart  shaped)  cookies 

LOGANBERRY  PUNCH 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS      149 

St.  Valentine  Luncheon 

Menu  II 

SHRIMP    COCKTAIL 
CLAM   BOULLION   WITH    WHIPPED  CREAM 

FILLETS    OF    HALIBUT  PAPRIKA    SAUCE 

LUNCHEON  ROLLS   (heart  shape) 

CHICKEN  BREASTS  WITH  BROILED   HAM,   CREAM    SAUCE  AND  MUSHROOMS 
MASHED    POTATO    APPLES 
GRAPEFRUIT    SALAD  TOASTED    BUTTER    THINS 

STRAWBERRY    ICE    CREAM  MARSH  MALLOW    SAUCE 

HEART-SHAPED   WAFERS,   PINK   FROSTING  MINT    HEARTS 

Washington's  Birthday  Spread 

Menu  No.  I 

GRAPEFRUIT  WITH   CHERRIES 

FRIED    CHICKEN  CORN    FRITTERS  SALAD    ROLLS 

CHAUFROID  OF   SALMON 

LAYER  SANDWICHES  WITH  RED  AND  GREEN  PEPPERS  AND   MAYONNAISE 

BISQUE   ICE    CREAM  PEANUT    DROPS 

HATCHET-SHAPED     COOKIES  FRUIT     PUNCH 

Menu  No.   II 

TOMATO    BOUILLON 
CHICKEN   CROQUETTES  WITH   PEAS  CHERRY   SALAD 

LAYER   SANDWICHES  CHOCOLATE   CAKES 

APRICOT    BOMBE  FROSTED    CAKE    WITH    CHERRIES 

OAT    WAFERS  STUFFED    FIGS 


St.  Patrick's  Day  Luncheons 

Menu  I 

OYSTER    COCKTAIL 
GREEN   PEA   SOUP  CRISP   CRACKERS 

HALIBUT  WITH  PARSLEY  SAUCE  SHAMROCK  BISCUIT 

TOURNADOS    OF    BEEF  POTATO    CROQUETTES,    CORK    SHAPE 

SPINACH   TIMBALES 

SHAMROCK  SALAD  OF  PINEAPPLE  SLICES   WITH  GREEN   PEPPER  STUFFED 

WITH   CHEESE  AND    SLICED 

CHEESE   CAKES 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  WITH  GREEN  COCOANUT  AND   MARSHMALLOW  SAUCE 

ROLLED    GREEN    WAFERS 

CAFJ&  NOIR 


150  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Menu  II 

SHAMROCK  CANAPES    (tiny  cream  cakes  in  groups  of  three 

filled  with  sardine  butter) 

SPINACH    SOUP  IMPERIAL   STICKS 

MOLDED    HALIBUT,    NORMANDY    SAUCE   TINTED   GREEN  COLE    SLAW 

KERNELS  OF  PORK  SAVORY  POTATOES  STUFFED  ONIONS 

MALAGA   SALAD 

PISTACHIO   ICE   CREAM,   PEACH    SAUCE 

FROSTED  CAKES   WITH   PISTACHIO   NUTS 
COFFEE 

Easter  Luncheons 

Menu  I 

GRAPEFRUIT    AND    ORANGE    COCKTAIL 

CREAM    OF   CHICKEN    SOUP   WITH    EGG    YOLKS 

BAKED  SHAD  ROE  SANDWICHES 

ASPARAGUS   HOLLANDAISE 

STUFFED  LAMB  CHOPS  NEW   POTATOES  GREEN   PEAS 

FRESH    MINT  SHERBET 

BUTTERFLY    SALAD 

ICE  CREAM    IN   EGG-SHAPED    MERINGUES 

SMALL  CAKES,   JONQUIL  DECORATIONS 

COFFEE 

Menu  II 

STRAWBERRY    COCKTAIL 

SOUFFLE  OF  SHAD  ROE 

BROILED   CHICKEN  WITH   ASPARAGUS   TIPS  POTATO  ROSES 

DANDELION   SALAD 

MAPLE   MOUSSE  BUTTERFLY   CAKE 

COFFEE 

Fourth  of  July  Luncheons 

Menu  I 

JELLIED    TOMATO    BOUILLON 

SALMON  GREEN    PEAS  MASHED  POTATO 

WATERMELON    SALAD  LUNCHEON    ROLLS 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM   OR  STRAWBERRY   MANHATTAN   PUDDING 

RED    PUNCH 

Menu  II 

ICED  CANTALOUPE 

SCALLOPED  LOBSTER 

JELLIED   VEAL  HORSERADISH    SAUCE 

FINGER    ROLLS         RIBBON    SANDWICHES    WITH    PIMIENTO    BUTTER 

ORANGE  ICE  CREAM   WITH   CRUSHED   STRAWBERRIES 

NUT  WAFERS  LITTLE  POUND  CAKES 

PINK    LEMONADE 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS       151 
Menu  III 

MARASCHINO    COCKTAIL 

PLANKED    SALMON  POTATOES  PEAS 

CHIFFONADE    SALAD 

RADISH    SANDWICHES 

STRAWBERRY    AND    MARSHMALLOW    BOMBE  WAFERS 

COFFEE 


Hallowe'en  Parties 

Menu  I 

FRUIT   COCKTAIL   IN    APPLE   CUPS 

BOUILLON 

BROILED  BONED  CHICKEN   WITH    SPAGHETTI,   TOMATO    SAUCE 

AND    GREEN    PEPPERS 

ROLLS 

GRAPEFRUIT  SPONGE  SALAD  MOLDED  IN  THE  SHAPE  OF  APPLES, 

CREAM   CHEESE  LEAVES,  FRENCH   DRESSING 

ICE    CREAM,    APPLE    SHAPES,    SPRINKLED    WITH    GRATED    SWEET 

CHOCOLATE  AND  SERVED  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM 

LITTLE  CAKES  CAFE   NOIR 

Menu  II 

DEVILLED    OYSTERS,    BROWN    BREAD    SANDWICHES 

APPLE    AND    CELERY    SALAD 

FRENCH    AND    CHOCOLATE   ICE    CREAM 

ORANGE  CAKE  WITH   ORANGE   FILLING   AND   FROSTING 

CHOCOLATE    COOKIES,    BLACK    CAT    SHAPE 

SUGARED    POPCORN 

COCOA 


Christmas  Luncheon 

TOMATO    SOUP 

CRAB  MEAT  A  LA  KING  POTATOES  FONDANT 

STRING  BEANS  AND  CELERY  IN   CREAM 

CHRISTMAS    SCONES 

CHICKEN    SALAD  CHEESE  BALLS 

TOASTED   CRACKERS 

ORANGE   MOUSSE 

CAKES    DECORATED    WITH     HOLLYBERRIES    AND    GREEN    LEAVES 

COFFEE 


152  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

All  Done  in  Green 

MINT    COCKTAIL 
GRILLED  FRESH   FISH    WITH    WATERCRESS   BUTTER 
PEPPERS    AND    CUCUMBER    JELLY 
ASPARAGUS  VINAIGRETTE 

HARLEQUIN   PUDDING  CAKES 

GREEN   GAGE  BONBONS 

COFFEE 

Thanksgiving  Supper 

CREAM   OF  CORN   SOUP  WITH   POPPED  CORN 

SAUTED   OYSTERS    ON    TOAST   WITH    CELERY   SAUCE 

TURKEY  SALAD  ROLLS 

FROZEN   PUDDING 

FRUIT   CAKE 

NUTS  RAISINS 

BLACK  COFFEE 

Card  Party  Luncheon 

CHICKEN    SOUP   GARNISHED   WITH    HEARTS    AND   DIAMONDS 

OF  PIMIENTO,    SPADES   AND   CLUBS   OF   TRUFFLE 

HAM    MOUSSE,  BAKED  IN   HEART  SHAPED   MOLDS    SERVED  ON   BED 

OF    SPINACH  ALLEMANDE    SAUCE 

BAKING   POWDER   BISCUITS    SHAPED    WITH    CARD    CUTTERS 

GINGERALE    JELLY    SALAD 

LAYER   SANDWICHES 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM   AND  RASPBERRY   SHERBET 

HEART  AND  DIAMOND  COOKIES   SPREAD  WITH 

RED   confectioners'   FROSTING 

SPADE  AND  CLUB  COOKIES   SPREAD  WITH   SWEET  CHOCOLATE 

SALTED    NUTS  BONBONS 

COFFEE 

A  Butterfly  Luncheon 

BUTTERFLY    COCKTAIL 
TOMATO   BOUILLON 

BUTTERFLY    SHAPED    CROUTONS 
MOLDED   FISH 

NORMANDY   SAUCE 

POTATO    BUTTERFLIES  PEAS 

VEAL  CUTLET  WITH   PEANUT   BUTTER    SAUCE 

CAULIFLOWER  MACARONI    MOLD 

BUTTERFLY  ROLLS 

BUTTERFLY    SALAD  CHEESE    CRACKERS 

RASPBERRY  BOMBE  GARNISHED  WITH 

CANDY   BUTTERFLIES    AND    SPUN    SUGAR 

BUTTERFLY   CAKE 

BONBONS  COFFEE 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS       153 
A  Jonquil  Luncheon 

CLAM   BOUILLON   OR   CREAM    SOUP   WITH    JONQUIL  GARNISH 

MADE   FROM   ROYAL   CUSTARD 

FISH   MOLDED   IN  OVAL  SHAPE  WITH   ALMOND  SAUCE  AND  GARNISH 

OF  EGG  YOLK,   CRESS  AND  ROMAINE 

STUFFED    PORK   OR   LAMB    CHOPS    DIPPED   IN   EGG 

AND    CRUMBS   AND    SAUTED 

UNTIL  A  GOLDEN  BROWN 

MASHED  POTATO    MADE  YELLOW  WITH   EGG  YOLKS 

YELLOW  BANTAM  CORN  CUT  FROM  THE  EAR 
APPLE  FRITTERS   WITH   LEMON    SAUCE,   OR   MINT   AND   ORANGE  JELLY  CUT 
IN   FANCY   SHAPES,   OR   CUBES   OF   YELLOW   JELLY   WITH 

BORDER  OF  GREEN 

TURNOVER    ROLLS    FILLED    WITH    ORANGE    MARMALADE 

ORANGE  AND  GRAPEFRUIT   SALAD  CHEESE   STRAWS 

MOLD  OF  LEMON   SHERBET  AND  FRENCH  ICE  CREAM 

IN   FORM   OF  A  JONQUIL 

A   YELLOW    AND    WHITE    CAKE    DECORATED    WITH    JONQUILS 

DEMI-TASSE  GREEN   AND   YELLOW  BONBONS  ALMONDS 


Menus  for  Birthday  Parties 

Menu  I 
(For  Child  Under  Five  Years) 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER   SANDWICHES   IN   FANCY   SHAPES 

MILK    TO    DRINK 

JUNKET   COLORED   PINK,    WITH    WHIPPED 

CREAM    ROSE   ON    TOP 

SPONGE    CAKE    SPRINKLED    WITH    POWDERED    SUGAR 

ON   BOARD   WITH   BIRTHDAY   CANDLES 

Menu  II 
(For.  the  Child  Six  and  Seven  Years) 

ROUND  BREAD  AND   JELLY   SANDWICHES 

PEANUT  BUTTER   SANDWICHES   CUT   IN    FANCY    SHAPES 

COCOA 

ORANGE   ICE   CREAM,   PINK   AND   WHITE 

ANIMAL   CRACKERS 

BIRTHDAY   SPONGE   CAKE   WITH   THIN    ICING 

CARAWAY  CANDIES  AND  CANDLES 


154  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Menu  III 
(Noon-Time  Party  for  Children) 

CREAM    OF   CORN   AND  TOMATO   SOUP 

BREAD    STICKS 

EGGS    IN   RAMEKINS  LETTUCE    SANDWICHES 

ORANGE  MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

MOONSHINE  CAKE 

LOLLY   POPS   IN   CREPE   PAPER   COSTUMES 

Menu  IV 
(For  the  Child  Eight  to  Ten  Years) 

EGGS   MARGUERITE  LETTUCE   SANDWICHES 

BREAD    AND    BUTTER    SANDWICHES  COCOA 

JUNKET   ICE   CREAM    AND    CRUSHED 

STRAWBERRIES 

ANGEL    CAKE,    ORNAMENTAL    ICING 

ASSORTED    MINTS 

Menu  V 
(For  the  Teens)  ' 

LOBSTER    SALAD   IN    DINNER   ROLLS,   OR   CHICKEN    SALAD 

IN    ECLAIR   CASES 

LAYER    SANDWICHES 

CHOCOLATE    ICE    CREAM  MARSHMALLOW    MINT    SAUCE 

BIRTHDAY  FRUIT   CAKE  BONBONS 

KISSES 


CATERING  FOR  LUNCHEONS  AND  SUPPERS       155 
REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Catering  for  Special  Occasions,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer. 

New  Dinners  (Calendar),  Elizabeth  O.  Hiller. 

Company  Cooking  and  Correct  Table  Service,  Alice  Bradley. 

Lessons    in   Cooking,   Robinson   and   Hammel. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer. 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer. 

Table  Service,  Lucy  G.  Allen, 

The  New  Hostess  of  Today,  Linda  Hull  Larned. 

The  R.  Wallace  Book,  Winifred  S.  Fales. 

The  Children's  Party  Book,  Woman's  Home  Companion. 

Book  of  Games   and    Parties    for   All   Occasions,   Theresa   Hunt 

Wolcott. 
The   Children's   Book  of   Games   and   Parties,    Carolyn    Sherwin 

Bailey. 
Children's  Games  and  Children's  Parties,  Gladys  Beattie  Crozier. 
What  Shall  We  Do  Now?    Dorothy  Canfield. 
Games  for  Everybody,  May  C.  Hofmann. 
The  Book  of  Games,  Mary  White. 
Indoor  Games  for  Children,  Gladys  Beattie  Crozier. 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

VII 

Catering  for  Special  Luncheons  and  Suppers 

1.  Write  out  three  luncheon  menus  of  dishes  with  which 

you  are  familiar. 

2.  Write  out  a  menu  for  a  spring  luncheon  with  roses  for 

decoration,  suggesting  ways  of  carrying  out  the  color 
scheme  for  each  course  and  in  the  decorations. 

3.  Write  out  a  menu  for  a  company  luncheon  that  you 

yourself  have  prepared. 

4.  Make   a   complete   Hst   of   all    supplies,   utensils,   table 

equipment,    decorations,    etc.,    required    for   one    of 
these  luncheon  menus,  served  for  six  ladies. 

5.  Give  plan  for  a  child's  party,  and  give  order  for  re- 

freshments  for  twelve  children,  as  you  might  pre- 
sent it  to  a  patron.    State  age  of  children  planned  for. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
VIII 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  VIII 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES 

table    service   and    serving;    canapes    and    other    first 
courses;  soups;  fish;  entrees;  meat  course  and  accom- 
paniments;   DINNER  salads;  DESSERTS;    HOW   MUCH   TO  PRE- 
PARE; costs;  typical  menus 

THERE  are  many  opportunities  for  women  to  go 
into  a  patron's  home  and  prepare  dinners  for  par- 
ties of  from  two  to  twenty  people.  The  price  charged 
is  proportionate  to  the  number  served.  It  should  not  be  less 
than  $5.00  and  may  be  $10.00  to  $15.00  and  is  all  clear 
profit  as  suggested  in  Lesson  VII. 

Many  people  find  it  more  convenient  to  entertain  guests 
at  a  tea  room  or  hotel  than  in  their  own  homes,  therefore 
the  manager  of  such  a  business  needs  to  be  familiar  with 
the  service  of  a  formal  meal  as  well  as  the  preparation  of 
each  course. 

It  has  become  very  common  for  a  host  or  hostess  to 
telephone  or  write  ahead  to  such  a  place  ordering  a  steak 
or  chicken  dinner  to  be  served  at  a  definite  hour  for  a 
definite  number  of  guests.  If  a  formal  dinner  is  to  be 
served  at  a  tea  room  or  hotel,  a  private  room  is  desirable 
but  this  is  not  required  for  the  informal  dinner  party. 
A  dinner  or  luncheon  at  which  there  are  more  than  twelve 

157 


158  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

guests  may  be  called  a  banquet.  This  is  usually  a  more 
formal  meal  than  a  dinner  and  may  be  followed  by  speeches. 
Special  decorations  and  music  may  be  provided  and  at 
the  large  hotels  more  than  two  thousand  guests  are  some- 
times served. 

Table  Service  and  Serving 

For  formal  luncheons  and  formal  dinners  the  service  is 
practically  the  same  and  is  known  as  modified  Russian 
service.  No  food,  save  nuts  and  bonbons,  is  on  the  table, 
but  everything  is  served  from  the  kitchen  and  passed  to 
or  placed  before  the  guests.  In  a  private  home  one  waitress 
cannot  satisfactorily  serve  more  than  five  or  six  people, 
therefore  two  waitresses  will  be  needed  for  most  formal 
meals.  At  hotels  one  waiter  or  waitress  is  provided  for 
every  eight  guests.  When  the  work  is  very  well  systemat- 
ized two  cooks  can  serve  ten  waiters  and  each  waiter  can 
serve  ten  guests. 

A  formal  dinner  table  is  laid  first  with  a  silence  cloth, 
covered  with  a  tablecloth,  which  should  hang  not  less  than 
nine  inches  on  all  sides. 

A  formal  luncheon  table  should  be  laid  with  a  luncheon 
set,  consisting  of  a  centerpiece  and  doilies,  all  of  the  same 
pattern,  or  with  a  luncheon  cloth.  The  luncheon  cloth 
should  reach  just  to  the  edge  of  the  table  or  hang  six  to 
seven  inches  below  it.  If  the  bare  table  is  used  the  center- 
piece is  laid  so  that  the  thread  of  the  linen  runs  with  the 
grain  of  the  wood  of  the  table. 

Place  the  table  decoration  in  the  center,  having  it  low 
or  high  enough  not  to  obstruct  the  view  across  the  table. 
Candlesticks  and  bonbon  dishes  are  placed  symmetrically 
about  the  decoration.  The  covers  are  marked  by  placing 
handsome   service  plates  one  inch   from  the  edge  of   the 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  159 

table,  having  them  directly  opposite  each  other.  The  cen- 
ters of  the  service  plates  should  be  twenty-four  to  thirty 
inches  apart.  The  silver  should  be  placed  in  the  order  in 
which  it  is  to  be  used,  beginning  on  the  outside  so  that 
it  will  be  used  toward  the  plate.  The  knife  or  knives  are 
placed  at  the  right  of  the  plate,  half  an  inch  from  the  edge 
of  the  table  with  cutting  edge  toward  the  plate.  Place  soup 
or  bouillon  spoon  with  the  bowl  facing  up  at  the  right  of 
knife,  teaspoon  for  fruit  cocktail,  or  fork  for  oysters  or 
clams,  at  the  right  of  soup  spoon.  The  forks  are  placed 
at  the  left,  tines  turned  upward,  one-half  inch  from  the 
edge  of  the  table.  Do  not  place  more  than  three  forks.  If 
more  are  required,  they  should  be  placed  with  their  respec- 
tive courses. 

Goblets  for  dinner  or  tumblers  for  luncheon  are  placed 
at  the  tip  of  the  knives.  They  are  filled  two-thirds  full 
before  the  meal  is  announced.  They  may  be  replenished 
at  right  of  guest  without  lifting  them  from  the  table.  Place 
filled  individual  nut  dishes  in  front  of  the  service  plate, 
place  cards  either  in  front  or  back  of  nut  dishes. 

The  napkin,  in  size  from  twenty- four  to  twenty-eight 
inches,  is  placed  at  the  left  of  forks,  folded  square;  how- 
ever, if  covers  are  close,  they  may  be  folded  again  to  save 
space.  If  the  napkin  is  monogrammed,  it  is  placed  so  the 
monogram  may  be  easily  read  by  the  person  at  the  table. 
A  luncheon  napkin  may  be  folded  in  three-cornered  shape. 
If  napkin  has  an  embroidered  letter,  it  should  be  placed 
with  the  point  of  the  napkin  toward  the  plate.  If  there  is 
no  initial,  place  the  long  edge  of  the  napkin  parallel  with 
the  fork. 

Butter  is  not  served  at  a  formal  dinner,  or  a  very  formal 
luncheon,  but  is  used  at  informal  meals.  A  bread  and 
butter  plate  is  placed  above  the  service  plate  and  a  little 
to  the  left  with  the  butter  spreader  across  the  upper  right 


160  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

hand  side  with  the  blade  turned  toward  the  center  of  the 
plate.  If  no  butter  is  served  the  knife  is  not  used  but  the 
plate  may  be  used  for  radishes,  olives,  bread,  etc.  The  plate 
may  be  omitted  and  small  baskets,  as  favors,  filled  with 
candies,  may  be  placed  above  the  forks. 

Salts  and  peppers  are  placed  between  each  two  covers. 
If  an  open  salt  cellar  is  used,  place  the  salt  spoon  across  the 
top  or  on  the  doily  beside  it. 

After  the  meal  is  announced  and  guests  are  seated  the 
head  waitress  starts  with  the  hostess  and  serves  to  the  right, 
including  the  host;  the  assisting  waitress  starts  with  the 
lady  guest  of  honor  at  the  right  of  the  host  and  serves  to 
the  right. 

Everything  except  beverages  and  extra  silver  are  placed 
by  the  waitress  from  the  left  of  the  guest.  A  napkin 
squarely  folded,  or  a  serviette,  should  be  used  under  all 
dishes  of  food  to  be  passed. 

Formal  Dinner  Service 

First  Course  :  A  formal  dinner  menu  generally  consists 
of  a  beginning  such  as  canape,  oysters  or  clams  on  the 
half  shell,  or  a  fruit  cocktail,  and  this  first  course  is  on 
the  table  when  the  guests  come  to  the  dining  room. 

Other  Courses:  The  first  course  is  removed  from  the 
table  by  the  waitress  with  the  left  hand  from  the  left  of 
each  person  before  the  soup  is  placed.  The  soup  is  served 
next  from  the  pantry  in  filled  soup  plates  and  with  the 
left  hand  placed  on  the  service  plate.  One  waitress  then 
passes  the  crackers  and  the  other  follows  with  the  olives 
and  celery,  etc. 

The  service  plates,  and  soup  plates  with  silver  are  then 
replaced  by  the  warm  plates  for  fish  or  entree.  Jf  the 
plate  is  empty,  it  is  placed  with  the  right  hand;  if  filled, 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  .    161 

with  the  left  hand  to  avoid  accident,  If  empty  plates  are 
placed,  the  fish  or  entree  is  passed  by  the  head  waitress 
from  the  left  on  a  platter  held  on  a  folded  napkin  in  the 
waitress's  left  hand  and  balanced  with  the  right.  The 
serving  silver  should  be  so  placed  that  guests  can  easily 
serve  themselves. 

When  this  course  is  finished,  the  fish  or  entree  plates 
with  silver  are  removed  with  the  left  hand,  and  the  empty 
warm  meat  plates  placed  immediately  with  the  right  hand. 

The  head  waitress  serves  the  meat  (previously  carved), 
beginning  with  the  hostess,  to  everyone  at  the  table,  and 
the  second  waitress  follows  with  the  first  vegetable.  The 
head  waitress  then  passes  the  second  vegetable  and  the 
second  waitress  follows  with  the  rolls.  Serving  silver 
should  be  on  the  platter  and  vegetable  dishes. 

At  a  banquet  or  informal  meal  the  meat  and  vegetable 
may  be  on  the  plates  when  they  are  placed,  or  the  main 
dish  nicely  garnished  may  be  carved  and  put  on  plates  by 
the  host  and  passed  by  the  waitress. 

The  next  course  may  be  an  entree  but  is  usually  a  salad. 
It  may  be  served  on  the  plate,  or  empty  plates  may  be 
placed  and  the  salad  passed  by  the  head  waitress  on  a 
platter  with  serving  silver,  the  assisting  waitress  following 
with  the  accompaniment  of  dressing,  crackers,  cheese 
balls,  etc. 

After  the  salad,  plates  and  silver  are  removed,  the  bread 
and  butter  plates  if  used,  and  the  salt  and  pepper  shakers. 

The  table  is  then  crumbed,  using  a  plate  and  folded  nap- 
kin, forefinger  placed  in  fold,  three  fingers  on  outside  of 
napkin. 

Dessert.  Dessert  plates  are  next  placed  with  the  left 
hand.  The  silver  may  be  on  the  dishes  or  may  be  brought 
in  by  one  of  the  waitresses  on  a  folded  napkin  and  placed 


162  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

at  the  right.  If  the  dessert  is  not  on  the  plates,  the  mold, 
already  cut,  is  passed  with  serving  silver  in  place.  Small 
cakes  are  then  passed  and  finger  bowls  placed  on  a  small 
plate  covered  with  a  doily  are  placed  on  table  above  the 
ice  cream  dish  a  little  to  the  left.  The  bonbon  dishes  are 
then  taken  from  the  table  by  each  waitress,  passed  to  guests, 
and  placed  again  on  opposite  ends  of  the  table. 

Coffee  is  served  in  the  drawing  room  or  at  the  table; 
the  cups  two-thirds  full  are  placed  on  a  doily  covered  tray, 
with  the  spoons  placed  on  saucers  so  that  handles  run 
parallel  to  handles  of  the  cups.  This  tray  is  passed  by 
one  waitress.  The  other  waitress  follows,  serving  cream 
and  sugar  on  a  doily  covered  tray,  the  handle  of  tongs 
beside  bowl  running  parallel  with  the  handle  of  the  pitcher. 
If  the  coffee  is  served  at  the  table  she  places  the  cup  at 
the  right  of  each  guest. 

The  same  method  is  used  in  serving  a  larger  number  of 
people,  whether  at  the  same  table  or  at  several  tables. 
There  must  be  enough  people  in  the  kitchen  to  place  the 
food  on  the  serving  plates  or  platters,  and  great  care  must 
be  taken  that  hot  things  are  served  hot,  and  cold  things, 
cold,  and  everything  as  daintily  and  attractively  as  possible. 

Canapes  and  Other  First  Courses 

The  first  course  of  a  formal  dinner  may  be  a  canape, 
shell  fish  in  some  form,  a  half  grapefruit,  a  fruit  cocktail 
or  assorted  hors  d'oeuvres.  A  canape  is  a  piece  of  bread 
cut  one-fourth  inch  thick,  delicately  toasted  and  spread 
with  butter  highly  seasoned  with  one  or  more  of  the  fol- 
lowing ingredients: 

Anchovy  essence  or  paste. 
Lemon  juice. 
Sardine  paste. 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  163 

Chopped  olives,  pickles,  capers,  and  parsley. 
Mustard  or 
Table  sauce. 

Upon  the  savory  butter  is  usually  arranged  in  an  orderly 
manner  caviar  or  small  pieces  of  shell  fish,  canned  fish  or 
smoked  fish  and  the  top  is  garnished  with  hard  cooked 
eggs,  capers,  pickles,  olives  or  pimiento  as  the  fancy  dic- 
tates. The  effect  of  the  whole  should  be  a  dainty  picture 
as  it  rests  on  a  small  fancy  plate  on  the  service  plate. 

Oysters  on  the  half  shell  are  a  popular  first  course,  served 
on  a  bed  of  crushed  ice  in  a  soup  plate  on  the  service  plate. 
A  small  glass  of  cocktail  sauce  may  be  in  the  center  of 
the  plate.  Lemon  cut  in  quarters  and  a  bit  of  parsley  is 
used  as  a  garnish. 

Little  neck  clams  on  the  half  shell,  pieces  of  lobster  or 
crab  meat  or  whole  shrimps  on  heart  leaves  of  lettuce  or 
parboiled  scallops  on  a  small  scallop  shell  may  be  served  on 
ice  instead  of  oysters,  or  the  fish,  covered  with  cocktail 
sauce,  may  be  served  in  a  glass  surrounded  with  crushed 
ice. 

Cocktail  sauces  may  be  purchased  ready  mixed  or  the 
following  may  be  used: 

Cocktail  Sauce 

Mix 
I  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  pepper 
I  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  teaspoon  chives,  finely  cut 
H  teaspoon  salad  oil 

6  drops  tabasco  sauce 
54  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  and 

8  tablespoons  tomato  catsup. 

Hers  D'Oeuvre 

A  plate  of  Hors  D'Oeuvres  may  contain  for  each  person 
J4  cold  stuffed  egg  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce 
I  sardine 


164  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

I  narrow  strip  of  toast  with  anchovy  fillets  or  anchovy  butter 

I  olive 

I  radish 

A  bit  of  crab  or  lobster  meat  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  Russian 

Dressing 
A  cornucopia  of  thinly  sliced  smoked  salmon  with  or  without  a 

bit  of  cavier  in  the  center 
A  slice  of  Italian  sausage 
A  small  stalk  of  celery  raw  or  braised,  with  a  savory  stuffing  in 

the  groove 
^  of  a  lemon  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  as  a  garnish. 

A  fruit  cocktil  may  be  served  instead  of  a  fish  cocktail.  Sugges- 
tions for  these  are  given  in  lesson  VII.  A  dinner  roll,  or 
small  crackers  are  a  suitable  accompaniment  for  this  course. 

Soups 

A  soup  is  always  served  at  a  formal  dinner.  It  may  be 
a  clear  soup,  like  a  consomme  with  a  garnish  of  dainty  bits 
of  vegetable,  royal  custard  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  macaroni 
or  other  paste  in  small  pieces,  bits  of  chicken  or  delicate 
quenelles.  An  oyster,  clam,  lobster,  or  vegetable  bisque 
may  be  served  instead  of  the  consomme  especially  if  a 
canape  takes  the  place  of  an  oyster  course.  Mock  turtle, 
green  turtle  or  any  nice  soup  not  too  rich  or  thick  may 
be  used.    For  informal  meals  cream  soups  are  popular. 

Accompaniments  may  be  bread  sticks,  delicately  toasted 
strips  or  triangles  of  toast,  small  rolls  or  crackers. 

Fish 

A  fish  course  or  an  entree  may  follow  the  soup  course. 
Both  used  to  be  considered  necessary  but  now  both  are 
frequently  omitted.  It  should  be  of  a  color  and  flavor  in 
contrast  with  the  soup.  The  fish  should  be  so  prepared 
that  it  can  be  easily  taken  from  the  platter  or  it  may  be 
served  in  the  kitchen  directly  onto  the  fish  plates.  It 
should  be  as  far  as  possible  free  from  bones,  surrounded 
or  covered  with  a  rich,  well  flavored  sauce,  and  garnished 
with  lemon  or  parsley,  with  fancy  potatoes,  cucumbers, 
tomatoes,  etc. 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  165 

A  few  suggested  fish  dishes,  recipes  for  which  may  be 
found  in  most  cook  books,  are 

Baked  stuffed  smelts  with  Bernaise  Sauce 

Smelts  a  la  Langtry  with  Aurora  Sauce 

Baked  fillets  of  halibut  or  flounder   with   Hollandaise,   Tartare, 

Lobster,  Cheese  or  Mushroom  sauce 
Molded  fish,  Normandy  sauce 
Fried  fillets  of  halibut  or  flounder  or   fried   smelts,  scallops  or 

lobster  with  Sauce  Tartare 
Terrapin 

Lobster  or  oyster  patties 
Crab  Meat  Mornay 

Halibut  Veronique  (with  white  grapes) 
Stuffed  turbans  of  flounder 

Fillets  of  sole  with  oysters  or  clams,  white  sauce  and  cheese 
Baked  shad,  roe  sauce 

In  recipes  which  call  for  wine,  lemon  juice  to  flavor  or 
a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  and  white  or  fish  stock  may 
be  used  instead. 

Entrees — Croquettes 

The  entree  should  be  a  contrast  in  flavor  and  color  to 
the  courses  that  precede  and  follow  it  and  may  consist  of 
a  patty  case,  vol  au  vent,  or  timbale  case  containing  creamed 
sweetbreads  or  mushrooms,  or  it  may  be  an  egg  or  mush- 
room croquette,  timbale  or  souffle,  braised  sweetbreads,  an 
egg  dish,  or  a  fancy  vegetable  such  as  mushrooms  under 
glass  or  asparagus  Mousselaine. 

Sometimes  a  sweet  entree  is  served,  for  example  a  fritter 
or  rice  with  fruit,  but  this  generally  accompanies  the  meat 
course  and  is  not  often  served  by  itself. 

'  Mushrooni  Croquettes 

Chop 

1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms  (there  should  be  4  cups),  add 

2  tablespoons  butter 
I  teaspoon  salt 

I  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 
A  few  grains  pepper,  and 

2  tablespoons  stock.  Stir  and  cook  five  minutes,  add 


166  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

2  tgg  yolks  slightly  beaten,  and 

I  cup  soft  bread  crumbs ;  spread  on  a  plate  and  when  cold  shape 

like   large  mushroom   caps   and   stems,   an   equal   number   of 

each.     Dip  in 
Crumbs 
Egg  and 

Crumbs  again,  and  fry  in 
Deep  Fat.    Put  caps  on  stems  and  arrange  on  platter  covered  with 

a  doiley. 

Meat  Course 

The  meat  course  at  a  dinner  is  almost  always  a  roast  or 
poultry  or  game  in  some  form.  It  is  usually  carved  in  the 
kitchen  and  should  be  attractively  placed  on  the  platter  or 
serving  plate.    Among  the  most  suitable  meats  are 

Roast  Beef  Roast  turkey 

Larded  fillet  of  beef  Roast  chicken 

Beef  steak  Boned  chicken  stuffed  and  roasted 

Planked  steak  Broiled  chicken 

Saddle  of  lamb  Planked  boned  chicken 

Crown  of  lamb  Roast  duckling 

Roast  leg  of  lamb  Broiled  duckling 

Saddle  of  veal  Roast  squab 

Stuffed  cushion  of  veal  Broiled  squab 

Planked  Steak 

10  potatoes,  boil,  pare  and  mash.    Add 
%  cup  butter 

6  t.gg  yolks  slightly  beaten 
iy2  teaspoons  salt,  and 

Milk  to  moisten.     Beat  until  very  light.     Grease  a  plank  to  keep 
it  from  burning,  put  on  a  border  of  the  potato,  using  pastry 
bag  and  tube,  and  put  in  hot  oven  until  lightly  browned.    Wipe 
2y2  lb.  Porterhouse  steak  and  remove  superfluous  fat;  the  bone 
may  or  may  not  be  removed,  as  preferred.    Heat  and  grease 
a  heavy  frying  pan;  when  hissing  hot,  put  in  steak,  turn  very 
often  until  seared  on  both  sides,  then  occasionally  until  steak 
is  cooked.    Cream 
%  cup  butter,  add 
I  tablespoon  pimiento,  chopped 
I  tablespoon  parsley,  chopped 
I  teaspoon  onion  juice.   Place  steak  in   center  of  plank,  spread 

with  creamed  butter  and  arrange 
8  small  onions,  glazed 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  167 

I  small  bunch  cooked  asparagus 
M  cup  cooked  carrot  balls 
}i  cup  cooked  turnip  cones 
I  cup  cooked  peas  and 

I  cup  cooked  string  beans  on  the  plank  between  the  steak  and 
potato  border.     Put  in  oven  for  a  moment  to  be  sure  that 
everything  is  very  hot;  pour 
Hollandaise  Sauce  over  the  asparagus,  place  plank  in  holder  and 
send  to  the  table  immediately. 

Stuffed  peppers,  stuffed  tomatoes,  stuffed  onions,  pimien- 
tos  stuffed  with  eggplant,  flowerets  of  cauliflower  or  spinach 
timbals  may  be  used  on  a  planked  steak. 

A  planked  steak  should  be  brought  to  the  dining  room 
before  it  is  carved  and  may,  after  being  shown,  be  served 
by  the  host  or  by  the  waiter.    It  should  serve  four  people. 

Vegetables 

The  potatoes  and  vegetables  suggested  for  luncheons  in 
Lesson  VII  may  also  be  used  at  dinners. 

An  especially  nice  vegetable  like  mushrooms,  fresh  as- 
paragus or  French  artichokes  may  be  served  as  a  course  by 
itself,  following  the  meat  course. 

A  sherbet  or  water  ice  is  sometimes  served  with  a  roast 
at  a  hotel  or  a  very  formal  dinner  or  banquet.  It  should 
be  one  that  goes  especially  well  with  the  meat,  as  cranberry 
ice  with  chicken  or  turkey,  or  mint  sherbet  with  lamb. 

Accompaniments  for  Meat 

Such  accompaniments  and  sauces  as  belong  with  certain 
meats  should  be  served  with  them.     For  example,  with 

Roast  Beef — Yorkshire  pudding 
Horseradish  sauce 
Mushroom  sauce 

Beef  Steak — Maitre  d'Hotel  butter 
Mushroom  sauce 
Oyster  blanket 

Hollandaise  sauce  with  variations 
Sauted  bananas 


168  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Roast  Lamb — Mint  sauce  Lamb  Chops — Currant  jelly 

Mint  jelly  ' 

Currant  mint  jelly 
Mint  sherbet 

Chicken  and  Fowl — Cranberry  jelly 
Cranberry  sauce 
Frozen  cranberries 
Mushroom  sauce 
Oyster  sauce 
Celery 
Spiced  figs 

Duck — Celery  Goose — Apple  sauce 
Green  salad  Celery 

Orange  salad 
Orange  marmalade 

Dinner  Salads 

Many  of  the  salads  suggested  as  luncheon  salads  may  be 
served  for  dinner.  Most  people,  however,  prefer  a  simple 
green  salad  with  a  well  flavored  French  dressing.  For  the 
salad  may  be  used 

Lettuce  separated  as  usual  or 

California  or  Iceland  lettuce  cut  in  halves  or  quarters 

Romaine  heads  cut  in  halves 

French  endive 

Standard  French  Dressing 

Put  in  small  jar 
y2  teaspoon  salt 
%  teaspoon  pepper  or  paprika 
4  tablespoons  salad  oil 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  or  grapefruit  juice.     Shake 
well  just  before  serving. 

French  Dressing  may  be  varied  in  many  ways  as  follows : 
Tabasco  French  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
5  drops  tabasco  sauce 
I  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  169 

Savory  French  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
%  teaspoon  mustard 
2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
%  teaspoon  onion  juice,  secured  by  scraping  the  cut  edge  of  an 

onion  with  a  silver  teaspoon. 

Chutney   Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
%  cups  chutney  sauce. 

Martinique  French  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
5^2  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and 
j4  tablespoon  finely  chopped  green  pepper 

Parisian  French  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
14  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion 
I  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and 

6  tiny  peppers   taken   from  a  bottle   of   pepper   sauce.    Do   not 
chop  or  eat  these  peppers,  because  they  are  exceedingly  hot 

ChifTonade  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
1/2  tablespoon  salad  oil 

I  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

I  tablespoon  chopped  pimiento 
1/2  teaspoon  chopped  shallot  or  onion 

I  hard  cooked  egg  chopped,  and 
ys  teaspoon  paprika 

Indian  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
I  hard  cooked  egg  yolk  rubbed  through  a  strainer 
}4  tablespoon  red  pepper,  finely  chopped 
l/i  tablespoon  green  pepper,  finely  chopped 
%  tablespoon  pickled  beets,  finely  chopped,  and 
^2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley. 


170  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Belmont  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add 
2  tablespoons  small  tomato  cubes, 
J/2  tablespoon  capers,  and 
Worcestershire  sauce  or  mushroom  catsup  to  taste. 

Russian  French  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  made  with  only  i  tablespoon  vinegar,  add 
2  tablespoons  chili  sauce 
I  teaspoon  chopped  chives,  and 
Few  grains  cayenne. 

Porto  Rico  Dressing 

Make  French  Dressing,  using  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  instead 
of  vinegar,  and  add 
I  tablespoon  chopped  olives  and 
H  tablespoon  tomato  catsup. 

Thousand  Island  French  Dressing 

Make  French  Dressing,  omitting  vinegar,  and  add 
Juice  54  lemon 
Juice  %  orange 
y2  teaspoon  onion  juice 
y2  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 
4  sliced  olives 

Yi  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and 
Ys,  teaspoon  mustard 

Desserts 

A  frozen  dessert  is  most  frequently  served  at  a  formal 
dinner  or  a  banquet.  Suggestions  may  be  found  in  Lesson 
VI,  in  many  cook  books  and  on  hotel  menus.  Individual 
molded  ices  in  a  nest  of  spun  sugar  are  always  popular  and 
in  good  taste. 

Small  cakes,  macaroons,  lady  fingers,  or  pieces  of  pound, 
sponge,  or  angel  cake  should  be  serv^ed  with  the  ice  cream. 

Directions  for  making  coffee  are  found  in  Lesson  VI. 
It  is  served  clear  in  small  cups.  Cream  and  loaf  sugar  are 
passed  with  it. 

Directions  for  making  bonbons  and  salted  nuts  are  found 
in  Lesson  V. 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  171 

How  Much  to  Prepare 

A  famous  chef  explaining  his  system  of  preparing  and 
serving  banquets  said  that  before  each  banquet  he  or  his 
assistant  conducted  a  demonstration.  He  showed  the  size 
of  portion  and  how  it  should  be  dished  up,  so  as  to  be 
most  attractive  and  most  economical.  In  this  way  he  gauged 
the  quantity  for  each  person  and  then  multiplied  by  the 
number  to  be  served.  You  should  work  on  a  guarantee  of 
so  many  covers  and  prepare  enough  food  for  that  number 
of  people.  In  that  way  everyone  is  served  and  very  little 
is  left  over. 

The  allowance  may  be  as  follows : 

I  gallon  soup — 17  guests 

I  gallon  vegetables — 40  guests 

I  gallon  sauce — 80  guests 

%.  lb.  fish — each  guest 

I  duckling — 6  guests 

Some  other  quantities  are  given  on  page  99. 

If  you  are  asked  to  plan  a  meal  for  a  definite  number  of 
people  at  a  definite  price  it  is  wise  to  make  out  a  tentative 
menu  and  then  make  a  list  of  the  ingredients  of  the  dishes 
you  must  serve,  not  forgetting  coffee,  cream,  sugar,  bread, 
butter,  main  dish,  etc. ;  after  each  article  put  in  the  amount 
required,  figuring  from  what  you  know.  For  instance  if 
you  use  the  amounts  for  four  people  when  your  fist  is  com- 
plete divide  by  four  and  multiply  by  the  number  to  be 
served.  Put  the  cost  of  each  article  in  a  column  after  the 
amount  required.  When  you  have  found  the  cost  of  most 
of  the  things  you  must  have,  add  the  totals  and  find  out 
how  much  you  have  left  for  extras  or  whether  the  menu 
must  be  changed  one  way  or  another  to  be  within  the  price 
quoted. 


172  COOKING.  FOR  PROFIT 

Estimating  Cost  of  Serving  a  Dinner  or  Banquet 

In  estimating  the  price  to  charge  for  a  special  dinner  or 
banquet  it  is  necessary  to  know 

When  it  is  to  be  given 

Where  it  is  to  be  given 

For  how  many  it  is  to  be  given 

Cost  of  food  stuff  not  counting  value  of  left-overs  that 

may  be  used  at  another  meal 
Cost  of  flowers  and  other  decorations 
Cost  of  printing  if  menus  are  used 
Cost  of  rental,  if  any,  for  dishes,  silver,  chairs,  etc. 
Cost  of  transportation  if  meal  is  not  served  where  it  is 

prepared 
Time  required  for  preparation 
Number  and  cost  of  help  required,  estimated  by  time 

necessary  for  preparation  and  serving  that  particular 

meal. 
Cost  of  overhead,  rent,  heat,  light,  laundry,  etc.,  for  the 

time  the  rooms  are  used. 

Directions  to  Help 

Before  the  preparation  and  serving  of  the  meal  most 
careful  directions  must  be  given  to  the  cooks,  servers  and 
waitresses  as  to  the 
Menu  itself 
Recipes  selected 
Manner  of  serving 

Kinds  and  number  of  dishes;  china,  silver,  and  glass  to 
be  used ;  those  that  should  be  hot  and  the  ones  that  must 
be  chilled 
Arrangement  of  tables,  serving  tables,  decorations  and 
every  other  detail  that  will  make  the  meal  pass  off 
like  clock  work. 
The  following  menus  are  typical  of  informal  dinners  at 
home  or  at  a  public  dining  room. 


$1.50  each. 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  173 

Informal  Dinner  Menu  I 

CREAM   OF   CORN    SOUP 

CRACKERS 

BROILED    CHICKEN 

FRENCH    FRIED    POTATOES 

STRING   BEANS 

BREAD   AND   BUTTER 

LETTUCE    SALAD 
FRENCH  DRESSING 

ICE    CREAM 
CAKE  COFFEE 


Informal  Dinner  Menu  II 


CREAM    OF    CELERY    SOUP 

CROUTONS 

BROILED    STEAK 

DELMONICO    POTATOES 

PEAS 

BREAD   AND   BUTTER 

LETTUCE    SALAD — PRUSSIAN    DRESSING 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE 

COFFEE 

$1.50  each. 

Informal  Dinner  Menu  III 

CLAM  BISQUE 

planked    STEAK 

garnished   with    DUCHESS   POTATOES,    CARROTS, 

STRING  BEANS,   STUFFED  TOMATOES  OR  PEPPERS 

CAULIFLOWER   AND    MUSHROOMS 

BREAD   AND   BUTTER 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE 

COFFEE 

$2.00  each. 

The  following  menus  are  typical  of  meals  that  may  be 
served  as  formal  dinners  or  banquets  to  any  number  of 
people.    The  prices  are  those  charged  at  a  first  class  hotel: 
Formal  Dinner  Menu  I 

HALF  GRAPEFRUIT 

(With  garnish  of  strawberries  or  cherries  and  angelica) 

SALTED    NUTS 

RADISHES  OLIVES 

TOMATO  BOUILLON 

ROLLS 

FILLET  OF  HALIBUT  WITH   LOBSTER  SAUCE 

POTATOES    PERSILLADE 


174  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

ROAST  DUCKLING,  PAN  GRAVY 

ORANGE    MARMALADE  SWEET    POTATOES,    CANDIED 

STRING   BEANS   OR   PEAS 

HEARTS   OF   ROMAINE 

CHEESE  DRESSING 

VANILLA    AND    STRAWBERRY    ICE    CREAM  FANCY    CAKE  COFFEE 

$3.00  each. 

Formal  Dinner  Menu  II 

OYSTER   COCKTAIL,    MIGNONETTE 

OLIVES  RADISHES  SALTED    NUTS 

CONSOMME 

ROLLS 

BOILED  SALMON  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  NEW  PEAS 

BROILED   CHICKEN    ON   TOAST 

POTATO   CROQUETTE  ASPARAGUS    POLONAISE 

STUFFED  TOMATO   SALAD 

FRUIT  FANCY  ICES  ASSORTED  CAKES  DEMI  TASSE 

$4.00  each. 

Formal  Dinner  Menu  III 
HORS  d'oeuvre 

MOCK  turtle   soup   WITH    EGG   GARNISH 

ROLLS 

BROOK  TROUT  MEUNIERE 

JULIENNE    POTATOES 

CUCUMBERS  FRENCH    DRESSING 

SWEETBREAD   PATTY   WITH    FRESH    MUSHROOMS 

ROAST  JUMBO   SQUAB  ON   CANAPE  GUAVA   JELLY 

POTATO  DUCHESSE  STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPER 

NEW   ASPARAGUS   ON    TOAST 

FRUIT    SALAD  CREAM    MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 

CHEESE  CRACKERS 

FANCY    ICES  FANCY    CAKE  COFFEE 

$5.00  each. 

Simple  Banquet  Menus 
At  a  simple  banquet  or  dinner  there  may  be  served  only 
a  first  course  of  fruit,  a  main  dish  of  meat,  potato  and  a 
vegetable  or  salad,  rolls,  ice  cream,  cake  and  coffee. 

Menu  I 

GRAPEFRUIT 

COLD    HAM  SCALLOPED   OYSTERS 

MASHED    POTATO  SQUASH 

ROLLS 

HARLEQUIN    ICE    CREAM  CAKE 

COFFEE 


CATERING  FOR  DINNER  PARTIES  175 

Menu  II 

CANTALOUP 

MEAT    LOAF 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

LETTUCE  AND  TOMATOES  WITH  FRENCH  DRESSING 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

COFFEE 

Menu  III 
Even  the  fruit  course  may  be  omitted 

SLICED  BRAISED  BEEF 
MASHED  POTATO  COLE  SLAW 

ROLLS 
ASSORTED   PIES  COFFEE 

Menu  IV 

CHICKEN  PIE  CONTAINING  POTATO 

GREEN  PEAS 

ROLLS  SWEET  PICKLES 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

COFFEE 

Thanksgiving  or  Company  Dinners 
Menu  I 

OYSTERS  ON  THE   HALF   SHELL 

SQUASH    SOUP       I  POPPED    CORN 

ROAST    STUFFED   TURKEY  BROWN    GRAVY 

SWEET   POTATOES  BOILED   ONIONS 

TURNIP   CROQUETTES  CRANBERRY   CONSERVE 

LETTUCE  CHIFFONADE   DRESSING 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM 

MINCE  PIE  PUMPKIN  PIE 

NUTS    AND   RAISINS  ASSORTED    FRUIT 

caf6  NOIR 

Menu  II 

CELERY    WITH'  CAVIARE 

OYSTER    SOUP  OLIVES  OYSTER    CRACKERS 

ROAST    TURKEY  GIBLET    STUFFING 

POTATO  AND   SPINACH   CROQUETTES 

GLAZED    SILVER   SKINS  SQUASH    SOUFFLE 

FROZEN    CRANBERRIES 

FRUIT   SALAD  BROWN    BREAD    SANDWICHES 

NEW    ENGLAND   THANKSGIVING    PUDDING 

MOUSSELAINE    SAUCE 

VANILLA   ICE   CREAM  LOGANBERRY    SAUCE 

ASSORTED   NUTS  BONBONS 

TOASTED    CRACKERS  CHEESE 

CAf6  NOIR 


176  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

QUESTIONS   ON   COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

VIII 

Catering  for  Dinner  Parties 

1.  Draw  a  diagram  of  one  cover  of  a  table  set  for  the 

$5.00  dinner  on  page  174, 

2.  Plan  a  dinner  of  four  courses  for  100  people  for  a  club, 

lodge  or  school,  at  75  cents  a  plate  for  food  material. 
Give  all  data. 

3.  Give  menu  different  from  those  suggested  for  a  dinner 

party  for  12  guests  where  money  is  no  object. 

4.  Draw  a  simple  diagram  of  a  canape  indicating  each  in- 

gredient of  the  make-up. 

5.  If  convenient,  prepare  and  serve  a  planked  steak  dinner 

and  tell  us  or  question  us  about  it. 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Company   Cooking  and   Correct   Table   Service.     Alice   Bradley, 

price  25c. 
Table  Service,  by  Lucy  Allen,  price  $1.75. 
Up-to-Date  Waitress,  by  Janet  M.  Hill,  price  $1.75. 
Lake  Placid  Club  Table  Servis,  Lake  Placid  Club,  N.  Y.,  price  25c. 
Catering  for  Special  Occasions,  by  Fannie  M.  Farmer,  price  $1.50. 
Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  by  Fannie  M.  Farmer,  price 

$2.50. 
New  Book  of  Cookery,  by  Fannie  M.  Farmer,  price  $2.50. 
The  Dinner  Calendar,  by  Fannie  M.  Farmer. 
The  St.  Francis  Cook  Book,  Hotel  Monthly,  price  $5.00. 
The  New  Hostess  of  Today,  by  Linda  Hull  Larned,  price  $1.75. 
Lessons   in   Cooking,  by  Robinson  and   Hammel,   price   $2.50. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
IX 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  IX 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT 


TYPES — HOMES,  CAMPS,  HOTELS,  ETC.;  NAMES;  HOW  TO  PLAN 
MEALS,  FOOD  VALUE,  BALANCED  MENUS,  WHEN  TO  SERVE 
what;  THREE  MEALS  A  DAY,  LEFT-OVERS,  MENU  LISTS,  THE 
MENU  BOOK,  THE  COOK's  MENU  BOOK,  VARIETY  IN  MEALS; 
HOW  TO  BUY,  THE  ORDER  BOOK  ;  STORE  ROOM  ;  KITCHEN  EQUIP- 
MENT;  service;  OVERHEAD  COSTS;  COST  OF  MEALS;  NUMBER 
NECESSARY  FOR  PROFIT ;  HOTEL  COSTS,  RENTING  ROOMS  ;  SAVING 
EXPENSE;    HOTEL   POSITION. 

IF  YOU  have  had  special  training  or  have  successfully 
planned  and  cooked  the  meals  for  a  large  family  you 
may  use  your  knowledge  in  managing  a  so-called 
boarding  house  or  if  you  have  had  hotel  or  other  catering 
experience  you  may  take  charge *of  a  small  hotel.  In  some 
places  you  may  do  all  or  part  of  the  cooking  or  you  may 
supervise  and  direct  without  doing  any  cooking  at  all. 
Whether  you  cook  or  not  the  more  knowledge  you  have 
of  cooking,  of  food  values,  of  dietetics,  of  household  en- 
gineering, of  bookkeeping,  sanitation,  bacteriology  and  allied 
subjects  the  more  successful  you  will  be. 

A  guest  house  or  hotel  may  be  for 
Small  children 
School  boys 


School  girls 


177 


178  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Men 

Students 

Sedentary  workers 

Manual  workers 
Women 

Students 

Teachers  and  office  workers 

Shop  and  factory  employees 

Mothers  with  small  children 

Women  of  leisure 

Tired-out  women 

Elderly  women 
Families 

Names 

Common  usage  has  made  the  terms  boarding  house  and 
boarder  unattractive.  You  do  not  wish  to  "run  a  boarding 
house"  or  "keep  boarders,"  but  many  people  cannot  have 
their  own  homes  and  must  be  "paying  guests."  The  term 
"guest  house"  has  been  introduced  here  as  a  substitute. 
The  word  hotel  usually  implies  bellboy  service,  considerable 
style  and  pretension  and  transient  guests.  You  may  call 
your  establishment  an  inn,  tavern,  home,  camp,  club,  lodge, 
guest  house,  or  the  like.  It  is  desirable  to  have  a  name 
such  as  the  Lincoln  Tavern,  Shirley  Inn,  Harvard  Camp, 
Hilldale  Farm,  Oakhaven,  Elmhurst,  Hadley  Guest  House, 
Women's  City  Club,  Longfellow  Hall,  West  House,  Stu- 
dent's Union,  Hemlock  Manor,  Two  Acres,  The  Gables, 
Lake  View  Lodge,  or  the  like. 

Your  house  may  be  located  in  the 

City 

Country 

Seashore 

Mountains 
It  may  be  open 

All  the  year  round 

During  the  schoolyear  only 

During  the  Summer  only 

During  the  Winter  only 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  179 

Choose  for  your  guests  the  class  of  people  you  can  most 
acceptably  feed  or  house  or  those  for  whom  no  provision 
is  being  made. 

Homes  and  Camps 

A'  home  for  nervous,  tired  women  should  meet  a  need 
in  some  towns.  Well  balanced  attractive  meals  and  break- 
fast in  bed  if  desired,  would  be  the  popular  feature.  An 
inn  which  cares  for  children  while  their  parents  are  away 
is  a  boon  to  mothers  who  must  work.  It  provides  special 
children's  meals,  and  a  nurse  or  kindergartner  to  super- 
vise their  play„  their  naps,  and  their  out-of-door  activities. 

The  students'  home  for  boys  or  girls  or  for  young  men 
or  women  should  be  an  attractive  place  with  a  home  atmos- 
phere, an  abundance  of  well  cooked  food  and  a  person  at 
the  head  who  understands  the  food  needs  of  growing  chil- 
dren and  can  "mother"  and  chaperone  the  young  people 
when  they  require  it. 

The  summer  camp  should  serve  real  country  cream,  plenty 
of  rich  milk  and  fresh  fruit,  berries  and  vegetables  and  not 
too  much  meat.  Houses  in  districts  that  are  famous  for 
some  particular  kind  of  food  should  endeavor  to  feature 
it  on  their  menus. 

Institutions 

An  institution  is  usually  a  home  where  some  particular 
type  of  person  is  cared  for  and  where  special  needs  must 
be  met.  The  officers'  table  of  an  institution  is  like  that  of 
a  high  class  guest  house.  In  the  dining  rooms  for  inmates 
and  help,  less  expensive  foods  are  used,  but  the  meals  should 
be  carefully  planned  and  as  attractive  as  possible. 

The  Hotel 

To  be  successful  in  the  hotel  business  one  should  work 
up  from  a  minor  position  until  familiar  with  all  departments 


180  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

of  the  hotel.  In  addition  to  the  guests  who  stay  in  the 
house,  most  hotels  must  cater  to  outsiders  who  come  in  for 
occasional  meals  and  the  manager  must  be  prepared  to  serve 
special  luncheons,  dinners  and  banquets  for  private  parties, 
clubs  and  other  organizations. 

In  most  hotels,  chefs  are  employed  who  are  in  charge  of 
the  kitchen  and  the  kitchen  force  but  a  small  hotel  may 
have  a  woman  cook  and  in  some  instances  she  may  be  the 
wife  of  the  proprietor  or  even  the  owner  of  the  hotel. 

Hotel  meals  differ  from  family  meals  in  that  there  may 
be  a  choice  of  two  or  more  dishes  for  each  course.  Menu 
cards  are  provided  which  may  be  printed  on  a  small  press 
owned  and  operated  in  the  hotel  or  they  may  be  printed 
forms  filled  in  each  day  on  the  typewriter  or  with  pen  and 
ink  or  they  may  be  printed  outside  and  sent  in  daily.  There 
may  be  a  regular  a  la  carte  menu  with  a  special  menu  at- 
tached each  day.  Many  people  get  tired  reading  a  long 
menu;  it  is  better  to  have  few  things  and  have  them  de- 
liciously  cooked  and  the  menu  changed  daily  than  to  have 
more  dishes  and  a  sameness  about  it  eachi  day.  You  may 
make  a  collection  of  menu  cards,  as  you  go  about,  and  on 
your  own  cards  embody  the  good  points  and  eliminate  the 
bad  points  as  you  see  them. 

Planning  Meals 

Hotel  menus  are  more  or  less  standardized  all  over  the 
world.  What  one  gets  in  one  city  is  very  like  what  one 
finds  on  the  menu  card  on  the  other  side  of  the  continent. 
The  hotel  that  provides  different  and  especially  fine  food  is 
likely  to  build  up  a  reputation  that  will  mean  profit  for  the 
dining  room,  and  cause  people  to  come  from  near  and  far 
for  your  special  dishes.  One  hundred  miles  is  not  too  long 
a  distance  to  motor  for  an  especially  good  dinner  or  a  week- 
end party. 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  181 

Quality  of  Food 

No  matter  how  delightfully  situated  your  hotel  or  guest 
house  or  how  artistically  and  beautifully  furnished,  people 
will  not  crowd  your  doors  if  the  food  is  not  first  class. 
Quality  of  food  is  of  far  more  importance  than  is  sometimes 
realized  although  cleanliness  and  service  should  receive  equal 
consideration.  The  greatest  attention  must  be  paid  to  every 
detail,  every  source  of  waste,  every  wish  of  the  patrons  if 
one  is  to  make  a  profit. 

How  TO  Plan  Meals 

Since  the  planning  of  meals  is  a  most  important  duty 
of  thd  manager  of  a  guest  house,  a  small  hotel,  a  college, 
school  or  institution  dining  room,  it  is  well  to  make  a  special 
study  of  the  best  methods  to  follow. 

There  are  many  excellent  books  to  study  in  order  that 
you  may  know  how  to  best  meet  the  needs  of  the  particular 
group  of  people  who  will  live  with  you.  You  will  find  that 
the  character  of  your  menus  should  be  determined  by 

the  age  of  your  guests 

their  sex 

their  occupation 

the  amount  they  pay 

their  inherited  tastes 

their  food  habits 

their  likes  and  dislikes 

the  time  of  day  that  meals  are  served 

the  ability  of  the  cook 

the  amount  of  help  in  the  kitchen 

the  location  of  your  house,  whether  in  town  or  country 

the  season  of  the  year 

the  nature  of  your  equipment 

the  method  of  service  whether 
with  waitresses 

family  style,  the  hostess  serving 
cafeteria  style. 


182  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

All  these  things  will  make  a  difference  in  the  type  of  meal 
you  are  to  serve.  For  instance  if  the  guests  are  women  of 
leisure  who  are  paying  a  large  amount  of  money  for  their 
meals  they  will  require  an  entirely  different  food  and  serv- 
ice from  hard  working  men,  or  school  boys  or  girls  who 
can  pay  very  little,  but  the  fundamental  principle  of  bal- 
anced meals  should  hold  good  in  any  case. 

Needs  of  the  Body 

A  well  planned  meal  should  supply: 

Fuel  foods  to  furnish  heat  and  energy  for  the  activities 
of  the  body;  these  are  foods  rich  in  starch,  sugar, 
and  fat. 
Building  foods  to  supply  material  for  the  growth^  and 
repair  of  body  tissue;  these  are  the  protein  foods, 
meat,  fish,  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  beans,  etc.; 
Foods    containing    mineral    salts    and    vitamines    and 
which  furnish  bulk  or  ''roughage"  that  so  regulate 
the  vital  processes  as  to  conserve  health ;  these  are 
vegetables,  fruits,  milk  and  whole  grains. 
In  general  all  natural  foods  are  building  foods,  as  they  all 
contain  some  protein  and  mineral  salts,  and  all  foods  can 
serve  as  fuel.    The  extra  refined  foods  like  granulated  sugar, 
corn  starch,  lard,  lard  substitutes  and  salad  oils  are  fuel 
foods  only.    Fats  have  2%  times  the  fuel  value  of  starch, 
sugar  or  protein  per  ounce  or  pound. 

The  ''food  unit"  is  the  calorie,  which  indicates  the  fuel 
value,  and  the  number  of  calories  required  depends  on  the 
age,  weight,  and  especially  the  physical  activity  of  the  person 
in  question.  Three  to  four  thousand  calories  per  day  are 
needed  by  the  hard  working  man  and  active  school  boys. 
Men  at  sedentary  occupations,  women  and  girls  require  less 
— 2,000  to  3,000  calories.  The  appetite  is  a  good  guide  as  to 
the  amount  of  food  that  people  require,  and  a  sufficient 
amount  of  the  right  kinds  of  food  must  be  supplied  to  fill 
the  demands  of  the  appetite  of  the  guests  but  not  to  stuff 
them  to  repletion. 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  183 

What  Constitutes  a  Well  Balanced  Menu 

In  general  the  daily  menus  for  each  person  should  be 
composed  of 

generous  amounts  of  fruit  and  vegetables 

Yz  pii^t  or  more  of  milk  per  day  per  person 

usually  not  more  than  ^  to  ^  pound  of  meat  or  other 

protein  food 
a  sufficient  amount  of  starch,  sugar  and  fat  to  supply 
the  required  number  of  calories  and  to  make  the 
meals  palatable. 
It  is  a  common  mistake  to  use  too   large  amounts  of 
cereal  products,  sugar  and  meat  with  too  small  amounts  of 
fruit  and  vegetables  and  milk. 

The  above  foodstuffs,  fruit,  vegetables,  milk,  meat  and 
fish  or  meat  substitutes,  bread  and  butter  and  sweets  must 
be  so  combined  as  to  make  palatable  and  appetizing  and  in- 
teresting meals  that  do  not  become  monotonous  and  that 
serve  to  keep  your  people  in  good  health  with  plenty  of 
pep,  vitality  and  force. 

When  to  Serve  What 

Fruit  should  be  served  two  or  three  times  a  day,  for 
instance  at  breakfast  and  at  one  of  the  other  meals  either 
in  or  for  dessert,  in  a  fruit  salad,'  as  a  cocktail,  as  a  preserve 
or  as  spiced  fruit  with  meat. 

The  vegetables  should  include  from  one-half  to  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  or  more  of  potatoes  which  may  be 
served  at  dinner  and  may  also  be  used  at  the  other  meals 
if  desired;  one  green  and  one  root  vegetable  at  dinner  and 
one  or  two  vegetables  at  luncheon  or  supper. 

The  meat  that  is  served  may  be  used  chiefly  at  dinner. 
There  may  be  leftovers  that  can  be  served  at  breakfast  or 
luncheon,  but  it  should  not  often  be  necessary  to  buy  meat 
for  luncheon  as  meat  substitutes  may  be  used  at  this  meal. 
If  you  buy  meat  for  breakfast  it  may  be  bacon,  dried  beef. 


184  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

fish,  ham  or  sausages.     Steaks  and  chops  are  not  necessary, 
although  you  may  have  to  serve  them  under  some  conditions. 

Eggs  may  be  used  as  freely  as  the  price  allows,  for  break- 
fast or  luncheon  and  in  cooking. 

MUk  to  drink,  top  milk,  thin  cream  and  whipped  cream 
served  with  cereals  and  desserts,  and  skimmed  milk  used  in 
soups,  sauces  and  desserts  will  use  up  the  amount  of  milk 
suggested. 

Bread  in  some  form  should  be  served  at  every  meal  and 
there  is  enough  variety  with  rolls,  muffins,  griddle  cakes, 
toasts  and  waffles  to  prevent  monotony. 

Cereals,  preferably  the  coarse  kinds  which  supply  vita- 
mines  and  mineral  salts  not  present  in  white  bread,  should 
be  used  freely. 

Fats — ten  ounces  of  butter  or  less  per  week  per  person 
for  the  table,  oil  for  salad  dressings,  margarine  and  other 
fats  used  in  cooking  will  supply  all  the  fat  needed  in  the 
diet.  All  fats  that  accumulate  from  cooking  meat,  soup, 
stock,  etc.,  should  be  used  in  cooking  or  saved  for  soap. 

Sugar  will  be  used  in  desserts  and  on  the  table  and  will 
average  from  one  to  one  and  one-half  pounds  a  week  per 
person. 

Coffee  may  make  or  mar  the  reputation  of  your  house. 
You  must  have  good  coffee  with  good  cream  for  breakfast 
unless  your  guests  are  children.  Have  it  good  under  dl 
circumstances!  If  the  coffee  is  poor  the  whole  house  will 
suffer.  Have  hot  milk  available  for  those  who  like  it  in 
their  coffee  and  cereal  coffee,  tea,  cocoa,  or  milk  for  those 
who  do  not  take  coffee. 

Three  Meals  a  Day 

Breakfast 

The  first  meal  of  the  day  should  be  planned  to  suit  the 
season  of  the  year  as  far  as  possible.     It  should  consist  of 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  185 

seasonable  fruit,  raw  or  cooked 

a  choice  between  cooked  and  ready-to-eat  cereal 

bread  in  some  form 

eggs,  bacon,  fish  or  a  made-over  dish 

coffee  or  other  beverage 

Dinner 

Dinner  may  consist  of  soup  or  chowder  followed  by  the 
main  meat  course  which  may  be  steak,  roast,  smoked  meat, 
corned  meat,  casserole  of  meat  or  fish  of  some  kind.  Whether 
or  not  you  serve  a  choice  of  meats  will  depend  on  the 
number  of  people  you  are  serving.  It-  may  be  profitable  to 
have  two  kinds  of  meat  or  meat  and  fish  from  which  they 
can  choose.  When  serving  fish  as  a  main  dish  it  is  wise  to 
have  meat  on  hand  for  those  who  do  not  care  for  fish. 
With  a  small  number  of  guests  who  do  not  pay  a  large 
amount  for  board  it  will  not  be  wise  to  offer  much  choice. 
With  meat  serve  gravy,  potatoes  and  at  least  one  hot  vege- 
table. A  relish,  such  as  pickle,  jelly,  apple  sauce,  and  the 
like  is  a  pleasing  addition. 

Serve  some  sort  of  salad  daily  either  at  this  meal  or  at 
luncheon  or  supper  or  both  so  that  the  people  will  get  some 
uncooked  green;  serve  such  desserts  as  your  guests  like,  as 
well  as  those  that  are  best  for  them.  With  some  people  a 
cold  or  frozen  dessert  is  almost  necessary,  with  other  groups 
you  may  have  to  serve  pie  almost  every  day  or  simple  milk 
puddings  or  fruit.  There  may  be  a  choice  of  two  or  three 
desserts  each  day. 

Bread  or  rolls  should  be  provided  and  coffee  or  tea  or 
both.  Such  extras  as  are  suggested  in  Part  VIII  may  be 
added  at  your  discretion. 

The  time  of  serving  dinner  is  determined  by  custom  or 
the  habits,  age  or  occupation  of  your  guests.  It  may  be 
served  at  noon  but  is  more  commonly  served  from  six  to 
eight  o'clock  in  the  evening. 

The  first  course  and  the  last  course  should  be  especially 


186  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

pleasing;  the  first  to  create  an  appetite  and  pleasure  in  the 
meal ;  the  last  that  guests  may  carry  away  a  good  impression. 

Luncheon  or  Supper 

The  third  meal  of  the  day  may  be  served  at  noon  and  be 
called  luncheon  or  served  at  night  and  be  called  supper. 
This  will  depend,  of  course,  on  when  dinner  is  served.  In 
some  houses  guests  do  not  come  home  at  noon  and  a  third 
meal  need  not  be  prepared  except  for  the  help.  At  luncheon 
or  supper  the  food  is  used  which  is  left  over  necessarily 
from  some  dinner  dishes,  although  left-over  meat  may  some- 
times be  used  for  another  dinner  in  another  form.  There 
may  be  a  soup  or  chowder,  one  or  more  hot  dishes,  vege- 
tables, rolls,  biscuit  or  muffins,  salad,  dessert  and  a  beverage. 
Among  the  main  dishes  from  which  one  may  choose  are 

Croquettes 

Scalloped  dishes 

Stuffed  peppers 

Beans  baked  and  in  other  ways 

Cheese  dishes 

Fish  in  various  ways 

Egg  dishes 

Salads  of  tgg,  meat,  or  fish 

The  luncheon  dessert  may  be  of  fruit,  fresh  or  cooked, 
cake,  pudding,  pie,  fruit  salad  with  wafers,  custards,  etc. 

The  following  are  typical  of  the  table  d'hote  meals  at  a 
hotel  where  there  is  a  choice  of  dishes : 

Breakfast,  85   Cents 

grapefruit  or  stewed  fresh  plums 

cream  of  wheat,  oatmeal  and  cream  or  grape  nuts 

fried  or  boiled  eggs 

OR 

PAN    FISH    WITH    BROWN   BUTTER 

OR 

HONEYCOMB   TRIPE   IN   CREAM 

HOT   ROLLS    OR   TOAST 

MILK,   COFFEE   OR  TEA 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  187 

Luncheon,  $1.50 
consomme  with   vermicelli 

OR 

CHICKEN    MULLIGATAWNEY 

SHIRRED    EGGS    WITH    KIDNEYS 

OR 

RAVIOLI   NICOSE 

OR 

FISH    SALAD,    HAVANAISE 

FRENCH  PASTRY 

OR 

APPLE    ROLL 

COFFEE    OR    TEA 

(This  menu  would  be  better  if  one  or  more  vegetables  were  added.) 

Dinner,  $2.25 

consomme  nino  or  potage  lamballe 

casserolette  of  sea  food,  poulette 

leg  of  lamb,  poele 

OR 

SWEETBREAD   PATTY,    FINANCIERE 

OR 

ROAST  IMPORTED  PARTRIDGE,   BREAD   SAUCE 

BRAIDES   CELERY    KNOB  POTATOES    FONDANT 

CHICORY   SALAD 

TUTTI  FRUITTI  ICE  CREAM  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

AND   DUNDAE   CAKE 

DEMI   TASSE 

This  is  not  reverting  to  the  old-style,  American  plan,  for 
the  reason  that  the  little  word  "or"  prevents  a  v^ricked  waste 
of  food  that  unlimited  selection  entailed. 

Left-Overs 

The  use  of  left-overs  is  most  important  as  it  is  one  of  the 
things  that  will  help  to  make  your  guest  house  a  financial 
success.  It  is  a  good  practice  for  the  manager  each  morn- 
ing soon  after  breakfast  to  look  over  the  contents  of  the 
refrigerators,  the  fresh  fruit  and  vegetable  store  closet  and 
cake  and  bread  boxes  and  to  plan  for  the  immediate  use 
of  any  supplies  that  will  not  keep  well.  Soups,  salads, 
croquettes,  and  other  made  dishes,  crumb  cakes  and  cookies 
will  suggest  themselves  to  the  person  of  imagination  who  is 


188  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

familiar  with  the  recipes  for  a  large  number  of  dishes. 
Foods  should  be  used  so  intelligently  that  neither  guests 
nor  help  will  realize  that  they  are  being  served  with  left- 
overs, but  nothing  except  food  left  on  guests'  plates  should 
be  wasted.  After  some  experience  meals  may  be  planned 
so  that  there  will  not  be  great  amounts  of  left-overs  to  be 
used  up,  but  no  good  foodstuff  should  be  allowed  to  spoil 
or  be  thrown  away. 

Menu  Lists 

The  planning  of  meals  is  very  greatly  simplified  by  hav- 
ing lists  of  dishes  from  which  to  select,  not  like  an  index 
in  the  back  of  a  cook  book,  but  such  dishes  as  meet  the 
needs  of  your  particular  family,  those  you  can  afford  to 
serve,  and  dishes  that  your  people  like. 

Lists  for  different  occasions  have  been  given  in  previous 
lessons  and  many  dishes  if  not  whole  lists  may  be  used  in 
these  guest  house  lists  which  should  have  as  headings 

1  Breakfast  fruit  24  Hot  sandwiches 

2  Breakfast  cereals  25  Potatoes 

3  Breads  for  breakfast  26  Sweet   potatoes 

4  Breads  for  luncheon  27  Spring    and    summer    vege- 

5  Breakfast     eggs     and  other  tables 

main  dishes  for  breakfast  28  Fall  and  winter  vegetables 

6  Clear  soups  29  Vegetable  dishes  for  luncheon 

7  Cream  soups  30  Salads    with    protein     (meat, 

8  Chowders  fish,  cheese,  etc.) 

9  Soup  accompaniments  31  Salads   with   vegetables 

10  Beef  32  Salads  with  fruit 

11  Lamb  33  Dressings  for  lettuce,  etc. 

12  Pork  and  ham  34  Sweet  entrees   (fritters,  etc.) 

13  Veal  35  Puddings 

14  Poultry  Z'^  Pudding  sauces 

15  Fish  Z7  Frozen   desserts 

16  Meat  sundries  38  Cold  desserts 

17  Meat  substitutes  39  Pies 

18  Relishes   for   main   course  40  Winter  fruit  desserts  (canned 

19  Made  over  dishes  with  meat  preserved,  etc.) 

20  Made  over   dishes  with  eggs      41  Summer  fruit  desserts 

21  Made  over  dishes  with  fish        42  Cakes 

22  Cheese  dishes  43  Cookies 

23  Macaroni    and    other    starchy 

dishes 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  189 

It  is  wise  also  to  have  lists  of  dishes  that  can  be  made 
from  left-overs,  for  example 

Dishes  with   Sour  Cream 

Salad  dressing 

Muffins 

Luncheon  cake 

Ice  cream   (if  cream  is  not  very  sour) 

Griddle  cakes 

Waffles 

To  moisten  Cottage  Cheese,  etc. 

Dishes   with   Left-over   Cereal 

Cereal   muffins 
Oatmeal  bread 
Oatmeal  soup 
Rice  and  cheese 
Rice  custard 
Rice  and  tomato 
Stuffing   for  peppers 
Croquettes 
Fried  hominy- 
Tomato  soup  with  macaroni 

Have  one  or  more  pages  in  a  large  note  book,  or  a  large 
card  or  sheet  of  paper,  for  each  list.  Have  columns  on 
the  right  of  the  list  for  each  month;  figures  indicate  the 
day  of  the  month  on  which  the  dish  is  served.  At  left 
of  the  list  of  dishes,  use  as  many  headings  as  you  like, 
such  as  page  of  Cook  Book  where  recipe  is  found,  number 
of  people  served  by  the  recipe,  the  amount  of  food  stuff 
to  be  used  for  it,  as  pounds  of  cereal  or  meat,  number  of 
times  to  increase  the  recipe  for  your  family  or  amount  for 
one  serving;  there  may  be  a  column  for  the  cost  or  the 
food  value  or  the  selling  price  of  the  dish. 

With  these  lists  at  hand  it  is  not  a  difficult  task  to  plan 
menus  for  a  week  or  a  month  in  advance  with  very  little 
repetition. 

Your  Menu  Book 

For  your  menus  have  a  note  book  of  about  the  size  that 
stenographers   use  and   a   page   dated   for   each   day   with 


190 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PAGE  OF  MENU  BOOK 


Sunday,  March  6th 
Breakfast 


Luncheon 


Dinner 


Spaces  headed  breakfast,  luncheon  or  dinner,  and  dinner  or 
supper. 

Planning  Dinner  Menus 

From  your  Hst  select  first  and  enter  in  your  menu  book 
the  dinner  meat  or  fish  that  you  will  serve  on  the  first 
day  for  which  you  are  planning  ahead,  then  the  second 
day  and  so  on.  When  you  have  entered  roast  lamb  for 
example  in  your  menu  book,  place  in  the  column  for  that 
month  on  your  list  the  day  of  the  month  on  which  you  are 
to  serve  it  so  that  when  you  have  finished  your  menus,  on 
the  list  of  lamb  dishes  for  instance,  the  column  under  each 
month  will  show  the  dates  on  which  was  served  roast  lamb, 
lamb  chops,  lamb  chartreuse,  lamb  stew,  and  any  other  lamb 
dish. 

When  the  meats  have  been  entered  for  the  week^s  din- 
ners, enter  the  potatoes  and  vegetables  that  go  best  with 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT 


191 


SAMPLE  PAGE  FROM 

MISS  BRADLEY'S  LISTS 

Page 

IN 

Cook 
Book 

Lamb 

«— < 

> 

a 

> 

> 

>< 

> 

M 

H 

f 

0 

P 

Mutton  duck 

4 
5 
6 

Salmi  of  lamb 

12 

30 

27 

Scotch  broth 

24 

11 

S 

Lamb  chops 

' 

8 

31 

Stuffed  chops 

29 

24 
22 

Fricassee  of  fiank  . 

25 

3i' 

9 

9 

29 

3 
4 

Chopped  with  green  peppers . 

25 

8 

22 

Rice  and  lamb  Chartreuse 

2 
22 

7 
6 
8 

Braised  leg .  .  . 

^With  currant  jelly  sauce 

A  la  mode 

23 

26 

Boiled  lamb 

7 

With  caper  sauce 

28 
8 
9 

Rechauffe 

6 

Curry  lamb  with  rice 

13 
15 

7 

29 

21 
24 

them  in  your  menu  book,  placing  after  each  in  your  lists 
the  day  of  the  month  on  which  you  use  it. 


Planning  Other  Meals 

Next  you  can  plan  your  lunches  or  suppers  using  up  left 
overs  if  you  can  anticipate  what  they  are  going  to  be.  If 
you  cannot  tell  ahead  leave  the  place  open  and  decide  about 
it  later.  Next  enter  the  breakfast  fruit  for  the  week  or 
month,  then  the  cereals,  then  the  luncheon  and  dinner 
desserts  and  salads  using  fruit  in  one  or  the  other  meal, 
both  if  you  like  but  not  the  same  fruit  that  you  serve  for 
breakfast.  Desserts  need  not  be  repeated  in  two  months. 
Next  enter  the  luncheon  breads  and  plan  the  breakfast 
breads  at  the  same  time  to  prevent  duplication  and  also,  so 
that  you  may  perhaps  use  the  same  dough  you  make 
luncheon  rolls  from,  with  a  change  of  shape  or  flavor,  for 


192  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

the  breakfast  buns.     From  your  lists  continue  until  every 
meal  is  complete,  with  relishes,  pudding  sauces,  etc. 

Contrast  and  Harmony  in  Meals 
The  courses  and  dishes  in  a  meal  should  be  varied  in 
their  character  as  hot  and  cold,  soft  and  crisp,  dark  and 
light.  Avoid  colors  that  clash,  as  beets  and  tomatoes;  too 
much  water,  as  clear  soup  and  jelly  at  the  same  meal.  Use 
sauces  with  tasteless  and  colorless  foods.  Do  not  use  the 
same  food  more  than  once  during  the  day  if  it  is  a  food 
of  distinctive  flavor. 

Plan  special  meals  for  special  occasions  as  birthdays  and 
holidays.  Use  seasonable  foods  abundantly  in  their  season, 
using  your  lists  of  ''special  dishes  to  be  served  at  different 
seasons  of  the  year."  With  these  lists  it  is  possible  to 
secure  great  variety  in  menus  with  little  effort.  Add  to 
your  lists  such  new  dishes  as  your  people  will  like  and 
cross  off  those  that  are  not  popular. 

Variety  in  Meals 

Variety  with  a  big  V  is  of  the  greatest  importance  when 
you  are  catering  for  the  same  group  of  people  day  after 
day.  It  is  no  wiser  to  serve  a  thing  that  they  like  too 
often  than  to  serve  something  that  is  not  very  popular. 
Do  not  have  a  definite  day.  for  special  dishes  even  though 
it  be  chicken  and  ice  cream  or  corned  beef  and  canned 
peaches.  Surprises  are  of  great  value  in  maintaining 
interest  in  your  table  and  pleasure  in  your  meals.  You 
cannot  please  all  the  people  all  the  time,  but  if  good  whole- 
some food  and  well  balanced  meals  are  provided  the  health 
of  your  guests  will  be  better  than  if  rich  and  indigestible 
though  popular  dishes  are  supplied  too  abundantly. 

The  most  carefully  planned  menus  will  not  be  satisfac- 
tory unless  food  is  attractively  served,  unless  it  looks  well, 
and  tastes  good.  Careful  cooking  is  of  great  importance 
as  well  as  correct  seasoning.    To  men  serve  generous  portions 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  193 

and  hearty  foods.    Women  and  girls  as  a  rule  prefer  more 
fruit  and  salads,  smaller  amounts  and  greater  variety. 

If  possible  do  not  serve  a  second  time  foods  that  are 
universally  unpopular  and  of  which  the  portions  were 
left  on  the  plates  and  wasted.  Cross  these  dishes  off 
your  list  or  prepare  them  differently.  Do  not  make  it 
necessary  for  people  to  eat  things  they  do  not  like. 

The  Cook's  Menu  Book 
A  menu  book  should  hang  in  the  kitchen  where  it  may 
be  consulted  by  the  cooks  at  any  time.  This  need  not  be 
the  book  in  which  you  make  out  menus  for  a  week  or 
more  in  advance  as  those  menus  frequently  have  to  be 
changed  to  use  up  left-overs  or  because  certain  foods  come 
into  market  or  are  not  in  market  or .  fail  to  arrive  in  time 
to  be  used.  The  menus  for  the  cook  should  be  posted  if 
possible  two  days  before  they  are  to  be  served  as  some 
dishes  need  to  be  started  twenty-four  hours  or  more  in 
advance  of  a  meal. 

How  TO  Buy 

If  menus  are  planned  a  month  in  advance  and  you  know 
approximately  how  many  meals  you  will  serve,  an  order 
for  groceries  and  non-perishable  supplies  can  be  given  for 
the  entire  month  with  little  or  no  need  for  ordering  goods 
of  that  type  for  another  thirty  days.  Naturally  this  saves 
much  time  and  worry.  All  supplies  must  be  checked  up  as 
soon  as  they  arrive  and  be  put  away  where  they  will  be 
safe  from  theft,  mice,  and  spoilage.  It  is  efficient  to  have 
to  do  this  for  groceries  only  once  a  month. 

Canned  goods  should  be  bought  by  the  case  and  may 
be  ordered  in  the  spring  for  a  year  ahead  to  be  delivered 
as  needed.  No.  lo  cans  of  most  fruits  and  some  vegetdbles 
are  satisfactory  for  large  families.  It  is  a  help  to  consult 
a  wholesale  grocers'  catalogue  and  price  list  when  making 
out  the  grocery  order.     Keep  a  variety  of   seasonings  on 


194  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

hand  to  vary  the  flavor  of  your  dishes;  buy  cherries,  ange- 
lica, nuts,  etc.,  for  garnishing.  Buying  in  original  packages 
saves  expense  if  the  stuff  can  be  used  before  it  spoils. 

Order  perishable  supplies  twice  a  week,  or  oftener,  and  a 
day  before  needing  them.  With  good  refrigerators  most 
foods  will  keep  well  several  days.  It  is  a  good  policy  to 
deal  at  the  same;  markets  regularly.  If  dealers  know  that 
you  depend  on  them  for  most  of  your  buying  they  will 
take  particular  pains  to  send  you  the  quality  of  supplies 
that  you  need  and,  if  they  issue  them,  will  mail  you  weekly 
price  lists.  Try  to  buy  in  sufficiently  large  quantities  to 
secure  wholesale  prices.  Vegetables  and  fruits  are  cheaper 
in  original  packages,  but  the  amount  you  should  buy  will 
depend  on  the  number  of  people  you  are  feeding,  your 
storage  space  and  distance  from  the  market. 

Eggs  may  be  purchased  in  April.  Your  dealer  will 
store  them  and  deliver  as  required  or  you  can  put  them 
down  in  water  glass. 

Butter  for  the  year  may  be  purchased  in  June  and  kept 
in  storage.  Be  sure  always  to  serve  good  butter.  If  you 
cannot  secure  or  cannot  aflford  good  butter,  use  a  good 
margarine  which  is  better  than  poor  butter. 

The  amounts  to  be  ordered  of  food  stuffs  depend  on  so 
many  things  that  it  is  impossible  to  give  any  special  quan- 
tities. The  number  of  guests,  their  food  requirements, 
storage  space,  etc.,  make  each  person's  order  different  from 
every  other.  After  the  first  few  orders  it  is  not  difficult 
to  plan  your  orders  so  that  you  will  have  enough,  yet  no 
waste.  Keep  accurate  record  of  all  supplies  that  are  ordered 
and  the  price. 

The  sample  page  of  my  order  book,  used  when  prices 
were  lower  than  they  are  now,  shows  how  a  book  may  be 
kept.  Between  150  and  200  people  were  being  fed.  The 
names  indicate  dealer  so  bills  can  be  easily  checked  up. 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT 

SAMPLE  PAGE  OF  MISS  BRADLEY'S  ORDER  BOOK 


195 


90  qts. 
4  qts. 

2  cases 
100  lbs. 
1 
6 
12 

1  can 

1  can 

1  can 

1  can 

1  can 

150  lbs. 

4  strips 
52^  lbs. 
I 
5 
27  lbs. 
50  lbs. 
100  lbs. 

3  crates 

1  bunch 

2  crates 

1  crate 
5  qts. 

2  crates 
6 

1  bushel 

1  barrel 

2  barrels 
1  bushel 
1  bushel 
1  basket 
1  bushel 
1  peck 

25  heads 
4  bushels 

Milk 08 

Cream 45 

Eggs — Williams — 60  dozen 33 

Butter — Gray 34 

Cheese — Weston — 3H  lbs 20 

Yeast  cakes 

Loaves  bread — Dunton 

Saltines— Cobb— 7  lbs 13 

Butterthins— Cobb— 10  lbs 13 

Vanilla  creams — Cobb — 7|  lbs 18 

Fluted  cocoanut — Cobb — 12  lbs 11 

Gingersnaps — Cobb — 11  lbs 08 

Chicken — ^Weston 20 

Bacon— Dunton — 49^  lbs 21 

Corned  beef — Weston 12 

Round  beef,  Argentine — 83  lbs 13 

Lambs— 214  lbs 18 

Dried  beef 38 

Frankfurters 14 

Mackerel 06f 

(45)  Cantaloups 

Bananas — Puffer 

Plums 

(32  boxes)  Blackberries. 

Blueberries 12 

(64  boxes)  Currants 05 

Watermelon 

Beets— Puffer 

Cabbage — Puffer 

Potatoes — Puffer 

Cucumbers — Puffer 

Green  beans — Puffer 

Peppers — Puffer 

Sweet  potatoes 

Parsley — Puffer 

Lettuce — Mosher 

Beet  greens — Mosher 


19 

34 

6 


20 
80 

80 
00 
30 
12 
20 

91 
30 
35 
32 
88 

00 
40 
30 
79 
52 
26 
00 
50 

00 
15 
00 
76 
60 
20 
10 

25 
00 
00 
50 
00 
40 
25 
20 
00 
80 


196  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Storerooms 

A  storeroom  should  be  light  and  well  ventilated  with  an 
abundance  of  shelves  of  the  correct  width  and  height  to 
hold  the  things  that  will  be  put  on  them.  For  instance, 
shelves  for  canned  goods  may  be  wide  enough  to  hold 
two  or  three  cans  deep  and  two  cans  high  with  no  waste 
space.  Shelves  for  extracts,  seasonings,  etc.,  may  be  nar- 
row. Never  place  one  thing  in  front  of  another  different 
thing.  It  is  inefficient  to  have  to  move  things  to  find  some- 
thing that  is  wanted.  Have  covered  receptacles,  moisture 
and  mouse  proof,  for  bulk  cereals,  tea  and  coffee.  Have 
•  a  refrigerator  that  is  well  constructed  and  large  enough 
for  your  needs. 

Kitchen  Equipment 

It  is  impossible  to  give  here  a  complete  list  of  the 
kitchen  equipment  required  for  a  boarding  house  or  a 
hotel.  There  are  large  firms  whose  business  it  is  to  supply 
everything  necessary  from  cellar  to  garret.  It  will  be  best 
for  you  to  visit  as  many  establishments  as  you  can,  send 
for  catalogs  and,  knowing  how  much  money  you  wish  to 
invest,  decide  for  yourself  how  best  to  spend  it.  The 
equipment  required  differs  with  the  number  and  class  of 
people  to  be  fed.  One  hundred  to  two  hundred  people 
can  be  fed  with  simple  meals  with  a  large  double  range, 
a  bake  oven  with  four  or  five  shelves,  cook's  tables  with 
rack  overhead  for  utensils,  large  boilers  of  tin,  copper  or 
enamelware,  large  roasting  pans  that  fit  range  ovens,  agate 
pans  for  baking  puddings,  apples,  etc.,  of  size  to  fit  bake 
oven  shelves,  food  chopper,  bread  mixer,  bread  slicer  and 
such  other  utensils  as  are  found  in  home  kitchens,  but  of 
larger  size  or  in  larger  numbers.  For  a  larger  number  of 
people  it  will  be  necessary  to  install  a  steam  table,  steam 
kettle  for  vegetables,  soups,  etc.,  power  ice  cream  freezer, 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  197 

power  mixing  machine,   dish  washer,   bain  marie,   broiler, 
vegetable  parer,  meat  sheer. 

Service 

The  method  of  service  makes  a  difference  in  the  amount 
that  you  must  charge  for  meals  and  the  amount  of  profit 
that  you  will  make.  You  may  have  waitresses  and  the  serv- 
ing done  as  explained  in  Lesson  VIII.  In  a  small  guest 
house  the'  hostess  may  sit  at  the  table,  do  the  carving  and 
serving  and  have  a  waitress  to  take  the  filled  plates  to 
each  guest.  In  a  large  establishment  or  institution,  cafe- 
teria style  may  be  employed.  This  method  of  serving  will 
be  fully  explained  in  Lesson  XII.  It  is  more  economical 
for  the  proprietor  if  food  is  put  on  the  individual  plates 
than  if  platters  and  serving  dishes  are  passed  or  put  on 
the  table,  where  guests  may  help  themselves  to  as  much 
as  they  wish. 

Where  people  pay  by  the  week  a  second  order  of  the 
main  dish  and  vegetable  should  be  allowed  and  all  the 
bread  and  butter  that  anyone  wishes.  Fruit,  soup,  salad, 
and  dessert  courses  may  well  be  limited  to  one  serving  each. 
In  a  hotel,  people  are  expected  to  pay  for  extra  orders  of 
anything. 

Overhead  Costs 

The  overhead  expense  of  running  the  guest  house  or 
hotel  may  be  estimated  as  suggested  in  Lesson  I.  It  is 
usually  possible  to  separate  the  cost  of  serving  meals  and 
the  cost  of  rooms.  It  is  absolutely  essential  that  you  know 
the  overhead  cost  of  doing  business  in  order  that  you  may 
know  whether  you  are  making  or  losing  money. 

The  price  charged  for  meals  must  cover 

1  Rent  of  kitchen 

2  Rent  of  dining  room 

3  Rent  of  hall  or  public  parlor 


198  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

4  All  or  part  of  rent  of  laundry,  if  table  linen  is  laundered  in  the 

house 

5  Rent  of  rooms  occupied  byi  cooks  and  kitchen  help  and  all  or 

part  of  rent  of  rooms  of  proprietor,  waitresses,  cashier,  book- 
keeper, or  such  other  help  as  live  in  the  house  and  give  all  or 
part  of  their  time  to  the  food  service 

6  Interest  and   depreciation,   on   value   of    furnishings   and  equip- 

ment in  all  the  above  rooms 

7  Renewal   and   replacement  of   equipment 

8  Cost  of  cleaning,  painting,  renovating,   etc. 

9  Light  used  in  lighting  above  rooms 

10  Fuel  used  in  heating  above  rooms 

11  Fuel  used  in  cooking 

12  Ice 

13  Soap  and  cleaiiing  materials 

14  Proportionate  part  of  telephone   expense 

15  Wages  of  help 

16  Salary  of  at  least  $25.00  a  week  for  proprietor 

17  Cost  of  laundering  all  linen  used  in  dining  room  and  kitchen 

18  Laundering   maids'   and   cooks'    uniforms,   unless    they   pay    for 

them  themselves 

19  Water  and  other  taxes,  license  fees,,  insurance,  garbage  collec- 

tion, etc. 

20  Advertising  and  other  expense  peculiar  to  your  situation 

21  Cost  of  food  served  to  kitchen  and  dining  room  employees 

Cost  of  Meals  per  Day  and  per  Week 

The  cost  of  raw  food  stuffs,  sufficient  for  one  day  for  one 
person  varies  from  fifty  cents  to  two  dollars  or  more.  It  is 
necessary  to  keep  accurate  account  of  all  food  purchased; 
it  is  worth  while  to  make  an  inventory  of  supplies  on  hand 
at  the  beginning  of,  each  month  and  their  value.  To  cost 
of  food  purchased  during  the  month,  add  the  cost  of  sup- 
plies on  hand  the  first  day  of  the  month  and  subtract  value 
of  supplies  on  hand  the  last  day  of  the  month.  The  result 
will  show  the  cost  of  food  for  the  month.  You  should 
charge  up  at  its  selling  price  food  stuffs  that  you  raise, 
can,  etc.  A  record  should  be  kept  of  the  number  of  meals 
served  each  day  to  paying  guests  and  to  help  and  other  non- 
paying  people.  Divide  the  total  amount  spent  for  food  by 
the  number  of  meals  served  to  get  the  cost  of  food  per 
meal  per  person.     Multiply  per  capita  cost  of  food  by  the 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  199 

number  of  meals  served  to  each  guest  each  day  or  each  week 
to  learn  the  cost  of  raw  food  material  per  day  or  per  week. 
Add  to  this  the  overhead  cost  of  feeding  guests  per  day  or 
per  week  to  learn  the  amount  that  must  be  taken  in. 

Number.  Necessary  for  Profit 

You  should  have  enough  paying  guests  to  guarantee  all 
the  above  expenses.  To  find  the  number  necessary,  divide 
the  overhead  and  operating  expense  by  the  number  of 
people  that  you  serve  or  can  easily  accommodate.  Add  to 
this  the  cost  of  food  material  per  person.  This  is  what 
your  guests  m.ust  pay  for  table  board  before  there  will  be 
any  profit  for  yourself  more  than  the  salary  suggested 
above.  People  sometimes  say  "But  no  one  will  pay  that 
much  for  board."  If  that  is  true  you  must  reduce  the  cost 
of  food  or  overhead  expenses  or  both,  or  secure  more  pay- 
ing guests  without  increasing  your  overhead  expenses,  or 
consider  that  you  are  working  hard  for  less  money  than 
you  would  get  if  you  rented  your  furnished  house  and 
went  to  work  for  some  one  else. 

What  It  Costs  to  Run  a  Hotel 

The  cost  of  raw  food  material  will  probably  be  more 
than  fifty  per  cent  of  the  total  cost  of  doing  business,  al- 
though one  hotel  man  writes:  "There  are  few  rules  for 
pricing  food,  but  you  may  divide  the  price  paid  by  seventy- 
five  guests  into  four  parts  allowing 

^4  for  food  cost 

%  for  overhead  expense 

34  for  service 
and  the  remaining  fourth  might  be  your  profit." 

Figuring  Costs 
Your  figuring  may  give  some  such  results  as  this : 


200  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Value  of   equipment,    furnishings,   etc. — $1,000.00. 

Interest  at  5%%  for  one  year $  55-00 

Depreciation  at  20%  for  one  year 200.00 

Total    for    one    year $255.00 

Total   for   one  month $  21.25 

Rent,  kitchen,  etc.,  i  mo 35-00 

Fuel   for  cooking  and  hot  water 10.00 

Fuel   for  heating   14.00 

Lights    3.00 

Water    50 

Ice    5.00 

Telephone    3.50 

Soap,  cleaning  materials    1.50 

Laundry     15.00 

Total    Running   Expenses    for   one   month — 30 

days     109.75 

Wages  kitchen  assistant,   i   mo $50.00 

Wages  3  waitresses,  i  mo 120.00 

Salary  yourself,  i  mo.,  at  least 100.00 

Food  for  5  (help)  at  $4.00  a  week,  i  mo 93-00 

Total  for  service,  i  mo 363.00 

Total  for  overhead,  i  mo.   (30  days) $494.00 

Total  for  overhead,   i   day 16.44 

Total  for  overhead,  i  week  (7  days) 115.08 

With  24  boarders,  overhead  one  week,   each 

boarder    $    4.80 

Food  for  I   boarder,  i  week 6.00 

Total  Cost  for   i  boarder,   i   week $  10.80 

If  each  boarder  pays,  i  week,  $12.00 — 

Estimated  profit  per  week  per  person 1.20 

Estimated  profit  per  week  for  24  boarders 28.80 

If  only  fifteen  boarders  are  served  the  loss  will  be  $1.67  per  week 
per  person  or  $25.05;  all  the  salary  of  the  manager.  Learn  to  esti- 
mate every  week  or  so  just  where  you  stand  financially  so  that  you 
will  make  a  profit  instead  of  losing  money  or  just  barely  paying 
expenses. 

In  a  hotel  the  number  of  guests  varies  greatly.  A  sufficiently 
large  staff  must  be  kept  to  care  for  the  average  or  the  largest 
probable  number  of  guests,  therefore  prices  charged  must  be  higher 
than  in  a  guest  house. 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  201 

The  average  price  paid  for  meals  in  eight  hotels  where  tens  of 
thousands  of  meals  are  served  daily  was  figured  as  follows : 

Table  d'Hote  A  la  carte 

Breakfast    $0.85  $1.42 

Lunch 1.38  1.80 

Dinner    2.08  379 

Renting  Rooms 

The  cost  of  the  rooms  that  you  rent  should  be  figured  as 
above  and  added  to  the  cost  of  food  service.  When  you 
know  all  these  actual  or  probable  costs  you  are  in  a  position 
to  make  your  price  for  ''meals  and  room  by  the  day  or 
week."  This  price  must  be  based  on  the  actual  cost  as 
figured  above,  plus  enough  more  to  give  you  a  reasonable 
income  proportionate  to  the  size  of  your  business  and 
the  amount  invested  in  it.  Prices  charged  by  other  people 
who  give  the  same  service  in  the  same  locality  will  help  to 
determine  the  price  that  you  will  charge. 

Many  people  because  they  have  linen,  china,  silver  and 
a  house,  and  are  good  cooks  think  they  can  make  a  profit 
from  paying  guests.  They  decide  that  they  will  charge  for 
board  what  they  think  people  will  pay,  and  do  not  reckon 
at  all  what  it  is  going  to  cost  them.  If  you  cannot  charge 
the  amount  as  estimated  above  and  enough  more  to  really 
pay  you  for  being  in  business  with  its  responsibility  and 
its  risks  there  is  no  sense  in  having  boarders  because  you 
won't  make  anything  on  it.  There  may  be  some  conditions 
under  which  it  may  be  wise  to  work  for  just  your  bare 
living,  but  these  are  unusual.    You  must  charge  enough. 

Kitchen  Help 

The  number  and  duties  of  the  employees  where  many 
people  are  fed  depends  on  the  number  to  be  cooked  tor, 
the  character  of  the  meals  and  the  price  paid.  One  meat 
cook,  an  assistant  or  vegetable  cook  and  a  pastry  cook  can 


202  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

prepare  the  food  if  it  is  not  elaborate  for  from  twenty  to 
two  hundred  people  or  more.  A  kitchen  man  and  a  kitchen 
woman  will  be  needed  to  prepare  vegetables,  freeze  ice 
cream,  wash  pots,  and  keep  the  kitchen  clean.  One  waitress 
can  serve  six  to  twelve  people  at  a  time.  Waitresses  may- 
wash  all  the  china  and  silver  used  in  the  dining  room  and 
do  all  the  cleaning  of  that  room  and  of  the  serving  room. 
Where  much  help  is  kept  a  separate  dining  room  is  reserved 
for  them  and  special  meals  are  prepared  by  a  special  cook. 
In  many  states  women  can  not  be  employed  for  more  than 
forty-eight  hours  a  week.  Hours  of  work  therefore  must 
be  carefully  planned  with  a  half  day  off  every  week  and 
part  time  on  Sundays,  and  menus  so  planned  that  they  can 
be  carried  out  when  the  cook  or  her  assistant  are  away. 

It  is  a  great  assistance  in  managing  help  to  have  the 
hours  and  duties  of  each  person  posted  with  regular  time 
specified  for  each  thing  that  has  to  be  done  daily  and  days 
for  such  things  as  are  done  less  often. 

Saving  Expense 

Where  the  price  paid  for  board  is  not  large  every  pos- 
sible means  of  reducing  expense  must  be  resorted  to,  except 
curtailing  the  food  supply  to  the  extent  that  people  actually 
are  undernourished.  Qieap  cuts  of  meat,  the  least  expen- 
sive cereals,  vegetables  and  fruits,  are  just  as  nutritious 
as  the  expensive  and  out  of  season  foods.  With  care  they 
can  be  made  palatable  and  attractive.  Dishes  that  are  easily 
prepared  lessen  the  number  of  cooks  necessary. 

In  many  college  boarding  houses  no  tablecloths  or  doilies 
are  used,  save  a  centrepiece  on  each  table.  In  a  summer 
camp,  paper  napkins  may  be  used  and  bare  or  oilcloth  cov- 
ered tables.  Meals  may  be  given  in  payment  for  work  done 
in  the  dining  room.  Many  other  suggestions  and  economies 
will  occur  to  the  woman  of  experience.     The  woman  who 


GUEST  HOUSE  MANAGEMENT  203 

has  had  none  should  start  in  a  small  way  or  gain  experience 
by  working  under  a  good  manager  before  attempting  a 
business  of  her  own. 

Well-Paid  Positions 

There  are  many  excellent  positions  in  institutions  and 
hotels,  open  to  women  with  training  and  ability.  These  pay 
good  salaries  and  do  not  involve  any  money  investment  or 
as  much  care  as  when  one  is  owner  and  proprietor  of  a 
business.     Among  these  positions  are  those  of 

Employment  manager 

EHetitian 

Steward 

Cafeteria  manager 

Manager  of  service  in  dining  room 

Storeroom  manager 

Storeroom  assistants 

Cook 

Pastry  cook 

Vegetable  cook 

Salad  maker 

Coffee  woman 

Toast  woman 

Cereal  woman 
Many  women  as  well  as  men  find  employment  in  the 
resort  hotels,  going  south  in  the  winter  and  to  a  summer 
hotel  for  the  summer. 

There  is  much  pleasure  and  satisfaction  in  so  feeding 
people  day  after  day  that  they  enjoy  their  meals  and  remain 
in  good  health  and  spirits  and  stay  or  return  to  you  year 
after  year. 


204  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book  by  F.  M.  Farmer,  $2.50 

New  Book  of  Cookery  by  F.  M.  Farmer,  $2.50 

Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty  by  F.  L.  Smith,  $2.00 

More  Recipes   for  Fifty  by  F.  L.   Smith,  $2.00 

Feeding  the  Family  by  M.  S.  Rose,  $2.40 

The  American  Home  Diet  by^  Simmonds  and  McCollum,  $3.50 

Hotel   St.  Francis   Cook  Book  by  V.  Hirtzler,  $5.00 

Lessons  in  Cooking  through  Preparation  of  Meals  by  Robinson  & 

Hammel,  $2.50 
Household  Engineering  by  C.  Frederick,  $2.50 
Low  Cost  Cooking  by  Florence  Nesbitt,  $1.00 
Marketing  and  Housework  Manual  by  S,  A.  Donham,  $2.00 
Low  Cost  Menus  for  June  and  July  by  A.  Bradley,  $0.20 
Food  Values  and  Economical  Menus  by  A.  Bradley,  $0.25 
Wheatless  and   Meatless   Menus  and   Recipes   by   A.   Bradley,  $0.25 
Free  Hand  Cooking,  Am.  School  of  Home  Economics,  $0.10 
Food   Values,   Am.    School   of    Home    Economics,    $0.10 
Ten-Cent  Meals,  Am.   School   of   Home  Economics,   $0.10 
The  Up-to-Date  Home;  Labor  Saving  Appliances,  A.  S.  H.  E.,  $0.10 
American   Cookery,   Boston,   $1.50  a  year 
Hotel   Monthly,   Chicago,  $1.00  a  year 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
IX 

Guest  House  Management 

1.  What  type  of  guest  house  are  you  most  familiar  with  or 

interested  in? 

2.  Write   out   seasonable   menus   for   a   week   for   a   guest 

house  where  twenty  people  are  served  with  two  meals 
a  day  and  pay  $12.00  a  week  and  ten  are  served  with 
lunch  at  $5.00  a  week.    Plan  to  make  use  of  left-overs. 

3.  Estimate   the   amount   that   can   be   spent   in  this   guest 

house  for  overhead  and  operating  expense  and  still 
leave  a  profit. 

4.  Write  out  a  grocery  order  for  next  month  for  twenty 

people. 

5.  Write   meat,   vegetable   and   fruit   order   for   50   people 

for  I  week. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
X 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  X 


SCHOOL,  INDUSTRIAL  AND  COMMUNITY 
FOOD    SERVICE 

school  lunches — menus,  prices,  etc.;  store  and  factory 
lunch  rooms — menus  and  prices,  matron's  duties; 
lunch  room  equipment;  luncheonettes;  community 
kitchens — help  required,  delivering  of  food  at  a  dis- 
tance, menus;  community  centers,  recipes  and  expenses; 
traveling  kitchens;  how  much  to  serve,  disposal  of 
left-overs;  prices  and  profit;  camp  lunch  rooms;  pack- 
ing LUNCH  boxes;  planning  menus;  list  of  desserts 

THERE  are  many  opportunities  open  to  the  woman 
who  wishes  to  Hve  at  home  and  have  comparatively 
short  hours  of  work  elsewhere  supervising  or  cook- 
ing one  meal  a  day.  Such  a  position  may  be  found  in 
schools,  stores  or  factories.  In  such  places  a  hot  lunch 
at  noon  has  proven  its  great  superiority  over  the  cold 
lunch  carried  from  home.  The  lunch  room  may  provide 
the  entire  lunch,  or  merely  a  soup,  cocoa  or  other  hot  dish 
to  be  eaten  with  other  things  brought  from  home. 

In  every  such  place  the  manager  must  be  a  woman 
(i)  with  a  knoidedge  of  food  values;  (2)  the  foods  best 
adapted  to  the  needs  of  the  people  wha  are  to  he  served; 
(S)  the  foods  that  give  the  most  nourishment  for  the  least 
money;  (4)  how  to  prepare  simple,  inexpensive  and  nutri- 
tious foods  so  tJiut  they  zmll  he  attractive  arid  appetizing; 
(5)  how  to  make  comhinations  tJmt  will  supply  for  little 
money  a  well  balanced  meal;  (6)  how  to  develop  in  the 
people  fed,  food  habits  that  unll  be  valuable  to  them  in  their 
homes  and  all  through  their  lives. 

205 


206  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

It  is  essential  that  the  manager  of  such  a  business  keep  in 
close  touch  with  what  is  in  market  and  its  cost,  know  what 
supplies  are  on  hand  in  the  storeroom  and  refrigerator 
every  day,  the  dishes  that  are  most  popular  with  the  people 
fed,  the  overhead  costs,  and  the  amount  of  money  taken  in 
daily,  or  the  sum  available  for  food  each  day. 

The  thought  of  profit  from  cooking  should  not  be  con- 
sidered in  a  school,  or  factory  lunch  room,  although  many 
of  them  are  self-sustaining  and  the  manager  should  be 
able  to  keep  them  so.  The  employees  are  paid  for  their 
labor,  except  those  who,  because  of  their  interest  in  the 
group  that  is  being  fed,  are  glad  to  give  their  services  until 
such  time  as  the  project  is  well  launched. 

School  Lunches 

In  the  New  York  City  schools,  lunches  costing  only  a  few 
pennies  furnish  between  400  and  500  food  units  (calories). 
In  Boston,  lunches  are  provided  in  18  high  schools  by  the 
Women's  Educational  and  Industrial  Union  in  co-opera- 
tion with  school  authorities  and  health  experts.  All  the 
food  is  prepared  and  cooked  at  the  central  kitchen,  from 
which  it  is  sent  to  the  various  schools.  The  food  served 
in  all  the  schools  is  the  same  in  kind  and  quality.  The  head 
server,  who  is  in  charge  at  each  school,  makes  a  report  of 
food  sold  and  money  received  each  day.  The  average  cost 
of  each  student's  lunch  is  from  nine  to  eleven  cents.  Re- 
ceipts from  lunch  counters  pay  for — 

1  The  charges  for  supervision,  preparation  and  service  of 

luncheons ; 

2  The  expense  for  food; 

3  Rent,  light,  heat,  and  overhead  expenses  at  the  central 

kitchen  ; 

4  All  movable  equipment  in  the  schools. 


SCHOOL  LUNCHES  207 

Each    day    the    luncheon    menu    includes — 
I  soup  such  as  tomato,  green  pea,  split  pea,  white  or  black  bean 
which  are  nutritious  and  inexpensive.     Four   days  out  of  the 
five  it  is  a  milk  soup. 
I  or  2   hot   dishes,   creamed  or  scalloped,   such   as   spaghetti   with 
tomato  sauce,  mashed  potatoes  with  green  peas,  baked  beans, 
corn  pudding,  a  stew  or  hot  roast  beef  sandwich.     Meat  is  not 
served  except  in  made  up  dishes  where  it  flavors  potato  or  rice 
or  macaroni.     Cheese  and   vegetables  are   much   used.     These 
dishes  are  baked  in  large  round  "milk"  pans. 
I  salad  such  as  potato,  egg,  fruit  or  green  vegetables.     Most  salads 
are   made   up   at  the   schools,    ingredients   and   dressing   being 
sent  out  separately. 
5  sandwiches 

I  meat  sandwich,  varied  daily. 

I  cheese   sandwich,   varied   by   using   factory   or   cream   cheese 

with  olives,  pimiento,  catsup,  etc. 
I  jam  sandwich. 
I  peanut  butter  sandwich. 
I  lettuce  and  mayonnaise  sandwich. 

These  are   made  at  the  central  kitchen,  but  material   for  the 
three  latter  sandwiches  is  kept  on  hand  at  each  school  for 
use  when  more  sandwiches  are  required  than  were  sent. 
Boys  like  heavy  meat  sandwiches  thickly  cut.    Girls  prefer  jam, 
lettuce,  and  cream  cheese  sandwiches  thinly  cut  and  daintily 
^  served. 
I  pudding  such  as  rice,  bread,  blancmange,  or  jellies. 
Every  day  there  is  served — 
baked  custard 
ice  cream 
plain  cake  or  sweet  wafers  offered  only  in  combination  with 

milk  or  other  plain  food 
milk 
cocoa 

fruit  such  as  apples,  bananas,  or  stewed  fruits  of  various  kinds. 
Sweet  chocolate  and  plain  candies  are  often  for  sale. 

The  dishes,  except  those  specified,  are  not  repeated  oftener  than 
once  in  ten  days. 

Prices 

The  price  is  usually  put  at  2  to  2^  times  the  cost  of  food 
material.  It  is  well  to  figure  the  cost  of  the  diflFerent  soups 
that  will  probably  be  served  and  then  make  an  average  price 
so  that  soup,  whatever  its  ingredients,  will  cost  the  same 
per  cup  throughout  the  year  or,  if  a  change  must  be  made, 
that  such  a  change  does  not  occur  more  than  twice  a  year. 


208  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

The  same  thing  should  be  done  for  scalloped  dishes,  pud- 
dings, etc.,  in  order  that  children  may  always  know  how 
much  money  they  will  need  for  certain  types  of  dishes. 
Boys  and  girls  may  serve  at  the  lunch  counter  and  for  their 
services  be  allowed  20  cents'  worth  of  lunch. 

In  many  schools  the  food  prepared  in  the  cooking  class 
as  the  regular  lesson  is  sold  in  the  lunch  room.  This  elimi- 
nates the  cost  of  food  material  for  the  class,  trains  the 
pupils  in  buying  and  preparing  good  substantial  every-day 
food,  in  family  quantities,  and  gives  all  the  children  an 
opportunity  to  purchase  at  cost  a  nourishing  and  satisfying 
luncheon. 

Employees  who  prepare  and  serve  food  in  a  school  lunch 
room  work  usually  from  nine  to^  four  and  are  paid  about 
30  cents  an  hour.  The  manager,  who  may  do  a  part  of  the 
cooking,  should  receive  from  $20.00  a  week  up. 

Store  and  Factory  Lunch  Rooms 

There  are  many  opportunities  in  stores  and  factories  for 
women  who  can  serve  efficiently  as  managers  of  lunch 
rooms  where  one  meal  a  day  is  served  to  employees.  The 
cafeteria  plan  is  usually  followed  as  in  schools.  This 
method  will  be  discussed  in  Lesson  XIL  The  hours  are 
not  very  long  and  the  pay  is  commensurate  with  the  work 
done.  The  menus  may  be  longer  than  those  for  the  school 
lunch  room  and  generally  include  a  well  planned  meal  of 
meat,  potato,  vegetable,  bread  and  butter,  dessert  and  coffee, 
as  well  as  separately  priced  dishes  like  those  suggested  above. 
The  manager  plans  the  menus,  does  the  buying,  engages 
and  supervises  cooks  and  waitresses  and  keeps  the  books, 
so  that  she  knows  just  how  she  stands  financially  every  day. 

Menus  and  Prices 

One  large  corporation,  with  branches  in  many  places,  has 
75  standard  menus,  40  for  winter,  35  for  summer,  which 


INDUSTRIAL  LUNCHES  209 

are  served  in  rotation.  In  this  way  employees  may  secure 
for  the  price  usually  charged  for  meat  alone,  meat  or  meat 
substitute,  potato  and  bread  and  butter,  which  keeps  them 
in  better  health  than  the  lunches  they  might  select  for  the 
same  price  if  no  combinations  were  offered. 

In  addition  to  the  combination  menu,  a  soup,  salad,  sev- 
eral desserts  and  beverages  are  also  provided. 

Specific  cooking  instructions  accompany  each  menu,  for 
the  use  of  the  cook,  and  a  chart  of  food  values  showing  the 
calories  contained  in  each  article,  to  help  the  patron  order 
an  adequate  ration.  Each  branch  has  the  same  menu  at  the 
same  time.  All  the  buying  is  done  from  the  central  plant 
and  supplies  are  sent  daily  to  each  lunch  room  in  such 
amounts  as  are  ordered  by  the  matron  in  charge. 

The  Matron's  Duties 

In  addition  to  sending  in  this  daily  requisition  the 
matron's  duties  include  the  cooking  of  the  food,  selling  it 
over  the  lunch  counter,  keeping  track  of  income  by  means 
of  a  cash  register  and  taking  an  inventory  once  a  month ; 
in  fact,  she  is  responsible  for  the  entire  management  of 
that  particular  lunch  room,  including  supervision  of  the 
woman  who  washes  the  dishes  and  a  woman  to  assist  in 
serving  if  more  than  200  people  are  served  there. 

Equipment 

Oftentimes  the  lunch  room  equipment  is  very  simple, 
scarcely  more  than  a  stove,  a  work  table  and  a  counter  with 
shelves  underneath;  when  the  enterprise  has  proven  its 
value  more  elaborate  equipment  may  be  provided  costing 
up  to  $io,cxx).  Steam  kettles,  a  steam  table,  a  dish  wash- 
ing machine,  dish  warmer,  coffee  urns,  a  bake  oven,  bread 
and  meat  slicer,  power  mixer,  ice  cream  freezer,  vegetable 
]:)aring  machine,  and  vegetable  masher  are  among  the  larger 


210  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

things  that  will  be  needed  where  many  people  are  fed  daily. 
Many  breads,  desserts,  cakes,  etc.,  are  purchased  from 
concerns  which  specialize  in  making  such  things  on  a  large 
scale,  others  go  to  the  serving  counter  in  the  pans  in  which 
they  are  baked.  There  should  be  a  large  supply  of  these 
pans,  either  round  or  of  a  size  about  ii  by  19  inches,  that 
fit  into  the  steam  table  and  keep  food  hot  until  the  last  por- 
tion is  served. 

Luncheonettes  in  Stores 

In  many  stores  that  are  equipped  with  soda  fountains 
light  lunches  are  being  served  to  increasing  numbers  of 
patrons.  Hot  beverages,  as  chocolate,  bouillon,  coffee,  etc., 
with  sandwiches  and  cakes,  cookies,  doughnuts  and  pies, 
are  first  added  to  the  list  of  fountain  drinks  and  ices.  The 
cakes  and  sandwiches  may  be  prepared  in  one's  home  and 
delivered  daily  to  the  store  or  cooking  equipment  may  be 
installed  near  the  store  and  more  dishes  added  to  the  menu 
as  the  demand  increases. 

All  food  served  should  be  above  the  average  in  appear- 
ance and  taste  and  no  dishes  should  be  listed  unless  there 
is  a  good  demand  for  them,  as  the  success  of  such  a  depart- 
ment depends  on  the  call  for  larg^  quantities  of  a  limited 
number  of  articles.  There  may  be  a  hot  "special"  each  day, 
as  Chicken  Pie,  Hot  Roast  Beef  Sandwich,  Baked  Beans 
in  individual  pots.  Scalloped  Oysters,  etc. 

Community  Kitchens 

Community  Kitchens  have  been  opened  in  many  places. 
Food  is  prepared  in  a  central  kitchen  and  delivered  in  spe- 
cial containers^  to  the  homes  of  families  that  subscribe  for 
the  service.  The  original  investment  may  be  very  small  or 
as  much  as  $20,000.     In  order  to  make  it  self-sustaining  it 


COMMUNITY  FOOD  SERVICE  211 

should  feed  250  persons  daily.  It  pays  better  if  500  per- 
sons can  be  daily  supplied.  In  addition  to  the  dinners  that 
are  furnished  regularly  a  general  catering  business  or  food 
shop  or  both  should  be  carried  on.  Such  a  station  should 
be  located  on  a  popular  street,  with  considerable  traffic,  in 
order  to  display  to  advantage  in  an  attractive  window  its 
catering  specialties.  The  location  should  also  be  central 
with  a  desirable  class  of  homes  radiating  from  it.  There 
must  be  ample  room  in  the  building  or  house  for  cold- 
storage,  kitchens  with  ranges,  dish-washing  machines  and 
sterilizer  for  containers ;  pantries,  and  rooms  for  office  staff. 
A  garage  is  an  important  item  as  it  saves  rent  outside.  For 
delivering  food  for  250  persons  four  motor  cars  are  re- 
quired. 

A  station  requires  the  following  help: 

Office  Staff 

Manager  who  makes  out  menus 

Purchasing  agent,  who  reports  to  manager  on  market 
conditions  so  that  menus  shall  include  seasonable 
food  stuffs  only  and  omit  those  which  are  scarce 
and  high  priced  (the  manager  and  purchasing 
agent  may  be  combined  in  one  person) 

Kitchen  director,  chef,  or  cook 

Pastry  cook 

2  packers  in  hot  food  department 

I  packer  of  cold  food 

Dish,  pan  and  container  washers 

4  delivery  hands 

Delivering  Food  at  a  Distance 

A  most  important  item  for  a  community  kitchen  is  the 
type  of  food  container  selected  for  transporting  meals  from 
the  central  kitchen  to  individual  homes.  One  container  on 
the  market  is  composed  of  five  parts;  the  base,  the  outer 
insulating  sleeve  or  jacket,  four  insulated  glass  lined  metal 
inserts  and  covers.     In  this  container  food  can  be  kept  hot 


212  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

for  hours  and  the  separate  inserts  may  be  used  on  the  table 
in  place  of  other  platters  and  serving  dishes.  Another  style 
has  a  high  container  insulated  like  a  fireless  cooker.  It  is 
heated  with  hot  stones  for  an  hour  or  two  before  being 
packed,  then  the  stones  are  removed  and  aluminum  pans 
holding  hot  soup,  meat  and  two  vegetables  are  packed  in 
one  upon  another.  Other  containers  hold  the  cold  dessert 
and  the  salad  in  individual  paper  cups.  Salad  dressing,  cus- 
tard sauce,  etc.,  are  sent  in  small  glass  jars.  Ice  cream  is 
packed  in  molds  holding  the  required  number  of  orders  and 
sent  out  in  buckets  of  ice  and  salt. 

Menus  may  be  sent  out  in  the  container  one  day.  The 
number  of  portions  required  must  be  ordered  before  a  cer- 
tain hour  the  next  day.  The  entire  meal  is  delivered  piping 
hot  to  be  opened  and  served  when  the  family  has  assembled. 
The  following  is  a  copy  of  a  menu  used  in  one  well-to-do 
community : 

Dinner 
tomato  bouillon  or  consomme 

roast  sirloin  of  beef  or 

roast  leg  of  lamb,  mint  sauce 

scalloped  potato  or  rice  croquettes 

lima  beans  or  harvard  beets 

pear  salad 

apple  pie  or  tapioca  cream 

Supper 

lamb  chop  or  halibut  timbales 

potatoes       salad      dessert 

(as   GIVEN  ON   DINNER   MENU) 

To  regular  customers  (those  who  subscribe  to  a  dinner  or 
supper  book  of  twelve  tickets)  the  price  of  the  dinner  is 
$i.oo  a  plate;  supper  85  cents  a  plate;  Sunday  dinner  $1.25 
a  plate. 

In  one  city  a  kitchen  has  been  established  in  the  poorest 
section.  Women  who  go  out  to  work  can  send  over  for  hot 
cooked  cereal  and  rolls  for  their  breakfasts,  the  children  can 
go  there  from  school  for  a  nourishing  ten  cent  luncheon  and 
anybody  may  purchase  a  hot  dish  and  dessert  for  supper. 


COMMUNITY  FOOD  SERVICE  213 

Community  Centers 

In  a  country  town,  each  housekeeper  may  contribute  to 
a  community  center  any  kind  of  cooked  or  canned  food  or 
fresh  fruit  or  vegetables  that  she  does  not  need  for  her  own 
family.  Different  townswomen  may  take  turns  in  tending 
the  shop  and  there  is  therefore  little  overhead  expense  to 
be  deducted  from  the  profits  from  sales.  Automobile  tour- 
ists as  well  as  townspeople  and  farmers'  wives  patronize 
such  a  shop.  Accurate  record  should  be  kept  of  each  article 
received  and  of  every  sale  every  day  and  settlement  made 
weekly. 

Tea  Room  and  Community  Shop 

Paid  Out 

Manager's   Salary    $1,423.31 

Assistants'  Salary   414.50 

Rent    300.00 

Equipment    1,188.52 

Insurance    3.55 

Electricity,  for  lighting  and  cooking...  418,60 

Telephone    29.26 

War  Tax  54-95 

Fuel,  wood  and  coal 105.58 

Total  Overhead $3,938.27 

Groceries    1,364.24 

Ice    1 19.09 

Milk  390.57 

Other   Food  and  General   Expenses...      796.86 

Food  Total  2,670.76 

Paid  to   Consignors 3,759.70 

Total   Disbursements $10,368.73 

Received 

From  Tea  Room 7,906.42 

Interest  8.79 

Dues    (25c— $25.00)  568.00 

Gifts    563.00 

Loan    950.00 

Benefits     825.54 

Total  Received    $10,821.75 

Total  Disbursements    10,368.73 

Balance  on  hand $453-02 


214  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

A  paid  manager  and  assistants  may  be  necessary  for  such 
a  community  kitchen.  The  foregoing  figures  are  those  of  a 
community  shop  and  tea  room  for  a  period  of  fourteen 
months  as  reported  by  the  manager. 

Traveling  Kjtchen 

A  travehng  restaurant  or  kitchen  has  been  successful  in 
some  places.  A  large  automobile,  fitted  up  with  steam  table 
for  keeping  food  and  dishes  warm,  a  range  for  cooking 
"short  orders"  (steaks,  chops,  etc.),  a  refrigerator  to  keep 
meat,  milk  and  fruits  in  prime  condition,  storage  space  for 
other  foods,  a  cook  and  a  driver  complete  the  outfit  which 
covers  a  regular  route  at  a  regular  time  every  day. 

How  Much  to  Serve 

The  proprietor  of  a  lunch  room  or  community  kitchen 
with  a  number  of  things  on  her  menu  but'witfiout  definite 
knowledge  of  how  many  people  are  coming  in  to  eat,  or 
what  these  people  are  going  to  order,  must  depend  on  statis- 
tics in  order  to  always  have  enough  on  hand  to  feed  every- 
one. She  should  keep  a  daily  record  of  the  number  of 
people  who  come  in  and  the  number  of  orders  served  of 
the  dishes  which  are  provided  on  different  days.  These 
records  should  be  so  compiled  that  after  a  little  experience 
she  will  be  able  to  tell  approximately  how  many  orders  will 
be  given  for  sandwiches  or  salads,  how  many  patrons  are 
going  to  order  meat,  and  how  many  may  prefer  fish,  what 
desserts  will  be  most  popular,  and  how  many  whole  meals 
will  be  served. 

You  can  multiply  the  number  of  chairs  by  the  length  of 
time  for  serving,  allowing  time  for  the  quickest  possible 
service,  and  this  will  give  the  maximum  number  which  could 
be  served.  It  is  not  likely  that  a  new  lunch  room,  unknown 
and  unestablished,  would  serve  to  more  than  one-half  its 


COMMUNITY  FOOD  SERVICE  215 

capacity  the  first  few  days.  If  the  time  of  serving  is  ii  to  3, 
the  number  of  chairs,  50,  and  the  minimum  time  for  service,. 
20  minutes,  the  capacity  of  the  lunch  room  would  be  ap- 
proximately 150  an  hour  or  600  people  in  the  four  hours. 

Of  course,  not  all  of  the  600  are  going  to  select  all  the 
ready-to-serve  items  on  the  menu,  so  that  considerable 
judgment  has  to  be  shown  in  providing  larger  quantities  of 
some  of  the  hot  dishes,  because  of  their  general  popularity, 
and  their  selling  price.  The  public  will  more  often  select  a 
dish  with  which  they  are  familiar,  particularly  in  a  new 
establishment,  and  when  the  price  is  moderate,  than  one 
which  is  unknown  to  them.  The  location  and  class  of  patrons 
must  also  be  considered  in  estimating  the  possible  number 
to  be  served.  If  the  lunch  room  caters  largely  to  business 
people  whose  lunch  hours  are  practically  the  same,  the  rush 
of  trade  will  be  greater  during  those  hours,  and  the  first  and 
last  hour  will  not  be  likely  to  even  approach  a  maximum 
number  of  customers.  This  should  be  considered  when 
estimating  the  number  to  be  served,  as  the  figures  used,  600 
for  four  hours,  is  the  maximum  number  for  the  entire  time. 
Where  quick  service  is  essential,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  food 
should  be  prepared  before  the  bulk  of  the  trade  is  expected, 
but  where  it  is  possible,  materials  should  be  partially  pre- 
pared, but  not  combined  until  ordered.  This  avoids  waste 
and  also  makes  it  easier  to  use  the  left-overs,  as  the  materials 
may  be  combined  in  different  ways  on  successive  days. 

Disposal  of  Left-Over  Food 

In  schools  where  a  simple  lunch  is  served  to  the  pupils 
at  noon,  it  is  possible  to  make  a  fairly  accurate  estimate  of 
how  much  food  to  provide.  Any  left-over  sandwiches,  etc., 
may  be  sold  at  a  very  small  cost  to  the  poorer  children,  or 
given  to  the  very  needy  or  used  the  next  day  for  toasted 
sandwiches. 


216  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Left-over  cake  may  be  made  into  cakes,  cookies,  and 
desserts.    Melted  ice  cream  can  be  utilized  in  bread  puddings. 

In  estimating  the  first  amounts  that  you  may  have  to  serve 
it  is  better  to  make  your  estimate  too  low  than  to  plan  too 
much  and  so  have  a  lot  of  food  wasted. 

The  portions  served  should  be  standardized  as  suggested 
in  previous  lessons.  You  must  know  how  many  portions 
can  be  served  from  one  recipe  and  always  secure  that 
number.  If  one  recipe  fills  fifteen  pans  and  each  pan  con- 
tains forty  portions,  then  200  portions  should  be  served 
from  that  recipe. 

A  well-known  writer  talked  one  day  with  the  manager 
of  a  restaurant  where  the  employees  of  a  great  factory  are 
fed.  "The  place  was  losing  money  when  I  took  it,"  the 
manager  said.  "Now  we  just  break  even,  which  is  all  we 
want  to  do.  And  there  is  the  machine  that  made  the  differ- 
ence." He  pointed  to  a  machine  that  cuts  the  portions  of 
butter  for  each  butter  plate.  "The  difference  between  just 
enough  butter  and  just  a  little  too  much  was  the  difference 
between  making  expenses  and  making  a  loss." 

In  one  kitchen  where  six  legs  of  lamb  had  been  required, 
careful  carving  by  another  person  made  five  legs  serve  the 
same  number  of  people  equally  well. 

Prices  of  Food  and  Profit 

Lunch  rooms,  community  kitchens,  etc.,  are  usually  op- 
erated on  a  very  small  margin.  The  following  figures  were 
recently  published  in  the  Hotel  Monthly. 

"The  business  was  a  lunch  room  system — several  places 
operated  in  different  parts  of  a  large  city  and  supplied  from 
a  central  commissary  with  the  bulk  of  the  foods.  The  gross 
receipts  aggregated  $2,000,000  a  year.  The  distribution  of 
these  receipts  in  the  operation  was,  approximately:  Food, 
55  cents;  labor,  16  cents;  rent  and  taxes,  5  cents;  expenses 
and  supplies,  4  cents;  light,  heat,  power,  fuel,  ice,  4  cents; 


FOOD  SERVICE  217 

laundry,  2  cents;  furniture,  i^^  cents;  general  overhead,  in- 
cluding repairs,  4^  cents;  depjreciation,  2  cents.  These 
items  figure  up  94  cents,  leaving  6  cents  on  the  dollar  of 
receipts  for  profit. 

"A  business  of  this  kind,  where  'service'  is  a  prime  factor 
in  its  success,  so  that  patrons  will  be  encouraged  to  come 
to  these  places  regularly,  must  be  operated  scientifically,  and 
every  point  of  expenditure  watched  closely;  for  the  margin 
of  the  business  is  so  small,  and  the  gamble  of  the  business 
is  so  great,  that  most  careful  and  exacting  management  is 
demanded.  When  the  average  patron  sees  a  busy  lunch 
room,  he  is  apt  to  think  it  a  very  profitable  business.  He 
does  not  see  the  expenses  over  and  above  the  costs  of  food, 
which,  in  the  above  showing,  are  small  as  compared  with 
the  average  lunch  room  in  which  the  receipts  are  not  so 
great. 

"It  is  volume  of  business  that  enables  the  average  lunch 
room  and  restaurant  to  give  so  much  as  it  does  for  the 
money." 

Summer  Camp 

The  cooking  for  a  summer  camp  is  much  the  same  as  for 
a  guest  house.  As  most  camps  are  for  boys  or  girls  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  best  foods  for  children  is  essential.  Plenty  of 
milk  to  drink  and  in  soups,  creamed  dishes  and  puddings, 
an  abundance  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  small  amounts  of 
meat,  good  bread  and  butter,  simple  desserts,  but  each  one 
different  are  most  important.  Have  an  abundance  of  cereal 
cooked  in  fireless  cookers  over  night,  varying  these  with  the 
ready-to-eat  cereals.  They  may  be  served  for  both  break- 
fast and  supper.  If  you  have  your  own  cows  be  sure  that 
the  cream  comes  to  the  table  instead  of  being  kept  in  the 
kitchen.  More  cereal  is  eaten  if  cream  is  supplied,  even  if 
it  be  thin  cream,  and  an  abundance  of  milk  should  also  be 
available. 


218  ,  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

It  is  well  to  be  careful  in  the  use  of  onion  for  flavoring. 
It  is  distasteful  to  many  people  and  should  be  used  sparingly 
if  at  all.  Casserole  dishes  will  help  make  left-over  dishes 
so  popular  that  many  will  want  the  recipe  to  send  home  to 
mother. 

Something  for  lunches  should  always  be  available.  Simple 
cookies  or  crackers  and  milk  to  drink  is  sufficient.  The 
younger  children  need  it  at  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning  and 
in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  The  others  all  want  some- 
thing when  they  come  in  from  bathing.  The  lunch  should 
be  sufficiently  attractive  so  the  children  will  not  buy  and 
eat  too  much  candy. 

Make  up  your  menus  with  a  few  dishes  only  at  each  meal 
and  enough  of  them,  but  different  dishes  every  day. 

Sometimes  an  extra  helper  in  the  kitchen  need  not  be 
hired  if  the  girls  are  allowed  so  much  an  hour  to  prepare 
the  vegetables.  This  money  can  be  turned  into  a  fund  for 
the  needy  at  home  or  abroad.  Four  or  more  girls  may  be 
allowed  part  payment  of  their  camp  expenses  to  set  the 
tables,  wait  on  table,  keep  the  main  hall  tidy  and  wash 
glass  and  silver.  Remember  that  cleanliness  in  the  kitchen 
and  dining  room  and  speedy  service  of  meals  are  essential 
to  success  in  catering  for  young  people. 

The  housekeeper  will  be  popular  with  the  boys  and  girls 
and  their  counsellors  if  she  shows  a  willingness  to  make 
special  arrangements  for  birthdays,  to  plan  Sunday  night 
suppers  so  the  young  people  can  get  them  ready,  and  relieve 
the  cook,  ingenuity  in  serving  fish  so  that  it  will  be  enjoyed 
and  in  using  the  berries  that  the  children  like  to  pick. 

Packing  Box  Lunches 

It  is  essential  that  she  also  know  how  to  pack  lunches  for 
all  day  and  over-night  trips  so  that  food  will  be  appetizing 


FOOD  SERVICE  219 

and  satisfying.  Wrap  every  sandwich  separately  in  wax 
paper.  Do  not  use  messy  fillings  in  sandwiches.  A  meat 
sandwich,  a  peanut  butter  sandwich  and  a  sweet  sandwich 
make  a  good  combination.  Hard  boiled  eggs  with  salt  and 
pepper  or  devilled  eggs  wrapped  in  wax  paper  and  packed 
in  an  tgg  box  are  always  popular.  Turnovers  instead  of 
pies,  cookies  instead  of  soft  cakes  and  firm  fruit  like 
oranges,  apples,  bananas  and  pears  are  good.  A  thin  un- 
peeled  slice  of  pineapple  cut  in  quarters,  wrapped  in  wax 
paper  and  accompanied  by  an  envelope  of  sugar  is  very  re- 
freshing. A  small  cucumber  pickle  and  olive  should  be 
added  to  each  lunch. 

Boxes  of  plain  crackers,  a  jar  of  jam  or  marmalade,  sar- 
dines and  a  package  of  cheese  may  be  provided  for  an 
emergency,  that  is  in  case  more  people  come  than  were  pro- 
vided for  or  in  case  the  party  is  delayed  by  accident  or 
weather  in  their  return  home.  Cofifee  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag 
and  a  large  kettle  or  boiler  that  can  be  used  over  an  open 
fire  may  be  sent  out  with  the  party. 

Lunches  are  most  easily  served  if  packed  in  boxes  holding 
lunch  for  not  more  than  four  people.  A  discarded  quart 
berry  box  may  be  used  for  each  person  in  the  party  and 
packed  in  a  berry  crate.  For  breakfast  after  an  over-night 
trip  bacon  to  be  cooked  over  the  coals  may  be  provided. 
Corn  meal  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  piece  of  salt 
pork  and  a  frying  pan  should  be  taken  if  there  is  a  pos- 
sibility of  there  being  fresh  fish  to  fry.  Potatoes  and  sweet 
corn  to  be  cooked  in  the  ashes  and  marshmallows  to  toast 
over  the  fire  will  make  any  meal  interesting. 

Where  conveyances  are  going  to  the  camping  place  a  hot 
dish  usually  of  stew  may  be  sent  in  one  compartment  of  a 
fireless  cooker  and  a  frozen  dessert  packed  in  ice  and  salt 
in  the  other  compartment  so  that  the  campers  will  have  a 
real  meal  on  their  arrival.     It  is  sometimes  convenient  to 


220  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

send  a  salad  nicely  packed  in  glass  jars  or  wooden  con- 
tainers. In  such  cases  as  these  forks,  spoons  and  paper 
plates  should  also  be  provided.  Tin  cups  to  hold  coffee  or 
other  beverage  may  be  strung  on  a  rope  or  packed  in  a 
berry  crate  unless  each  camper  has  her  own  plate,  cup  and 
cutlery. 

For  real  "Camping  Out"  a  knowledge  of  how  to  build  a 
fire  in  the  open  and  the  best  kinds  of  food  to  cook  thereon, 
is  essential.  An  open  oven  and  few  utensils  mean  a  different 
type  of  cooking  than  is  usually  done  in  the  home.  Practice 
in  this  branch  of  cookery  will  soon  make  one  an  expert. 

A  pleasant  summer  in  an  attractive  location  with  almost 
no  expense  and  adequate  salary  make  catering  for  a  summer 
camp  a  worth  while  job. 

Planning  Menus 

In  all  these  types  of  catering  the  lists  of  dishes  from 
which  to  build  menus,  arranged  as  suggested  in  Lesson  IX 
will  be  of  great  assistance  in  securing  variety.  Surprises 
appeal  to  young  people  in  school  or  camp  or  factory  and 
make  community  and  lunch  room  meals  more  interesting 
than  when  the  same  things  are  served  over  and  over. 

Lists  of  dishes  to  be  made  from  left-overs  are  as  useful 
as  in  a  boarding  house. 

The  following  list  of  desserts  shows  how  easy  it  may 
be  to  provide  a  different  inexpensive  dessert  every  day  for 
several  months  especially  if  a  frozen  dessert  is  served  in- 
stead of  pudding  once  or  twice  a  week,  and  pies  are  allowed 
in  the  dietary. 

LIST  OF  DESSERTS  SUITABLE  FOR  A  LUNCH  ROOM 

Bread  Puddings 

Plain  bread  pudding 

with  (one  at  a  time)  pudding  sauces  on  page  222. 


FOOD  SERVICE  221 

with  brown  bread  and  molasses 

with  candied  cherries 

with  molasses,  cinnamon  and  raisins 

with  raisins,  currants  or  dates 
Bread  and  butter  pudding 
Bread  and  butter  pudding  with  marmalade. 
Caramel   bread  pudding 
Caramel  bread  pudding  with  nuts 
Chocolate  bread  pudding 
Chocolate  bread  pudding  with  nuts 
Cocoanut  orange  pudding  with  meringue 
Cracker  custard   pudding 
Fruit  Betty  with  aitples 
with  berries 
with  peaches 
with  rhubarb 
Hot  cabinet  pudding 
Maple  bread  pudding 
Mock  Indian  pudding 
Queen  of  puddings 

Cereal  Puddings 

Apple  tapioca 

Apricot  tapioca 

Baked  rice  molded  with  caramelized  sugar 

Baked  Indian  pudding 

Baked  tapioca 

Coffee  tapioca 

Chocolate  rice  pudding  with  meringue 

Date  tapioca 

Lemon  tapioca  mould 

Marshmallow  tapioca 

Newton  tapioca 

Rice  puddings 

Poor  man's 

with  chocolate  sauce 

with  dates 

with  raisins 
Rhubarb  tapioca 
Tapioca   cream 

Cottage  Puddings 

Castle  pudding  (individual  cottage  puddings) 
Chocolate  pudding,  with  whipped  cream  and  chocolate  sauce 
Chocolate  cottage  pudding  with   marshmallow   sauce 
Cottage  pudding,  containing  blueberries  and  with  hot  stewed  blue- 
berries and  hard  sauce  containing  cream  served  with  it 
Cottage  pudding  with  strawberry  sauce 
Dutch  apple  cake 
Dutch  peach  cake 
Dutch  prune  cake 


222  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Fruit  in  bottom  of  dish,  cottage  pudding  on  top,  serve  with  fruit 

juice 
Gingerbread  split  with  marshmallows  and  whipped  cream 
Gingerbread  with  hot  chocolate  sauce 
Gingerbread  with  maple  sauce 
Gingerbread  with  apple  sauce  in  bottom  of  pan 
One-egg  cake  in  layers  with  blackberry  filling  or  with  peaches  and 

hard  sauce 
Peach  cobbler 
Orange  fluffs  with  orange  sauce 

Shortcakes 

Apple  shortcake 

Apricot  shortcake 

Blackberry  shortcake 

Cranberry  shortcake 

Fresh  currant  shortcake 

Pineapple  shortcake  with  marshmallow  sauce 

Prune  and  apricot  shortcake 

Raspberry  shortcake 

Strawberry  shortcake 

Steamed  Puddings 

Apple  roly-poly,  steamed  or  baked 

Blueberry  pudding 

Chocolate  pudding 

Cranberry  pudding 

Emergency  pudding  with  fruit  sauce 

Ginger  pudding 

Plum  pudding 

St.  James  pudding 

Pudding  Sauces 

Brown  sugar  sauce  Loganberry  sauce 

Cinnamon  marshmallow  sauce  Marshmallow    sauce 

Chocolate  sauce,  hot  Raisin  sauce 

Egg  sauce  Sea  Foam  sauce 

Floradora  sauce  Vanilla  sauce 

Hard  sauce  Whipped  cream  sauce 

Lemon  sauce  Yellow  sauce 

Fritters 

Apple  fritters  Orange  fritters 

Apricot  fritters  Peach  fritters 

Banana  fritters  Pear  fritters 

Cream   fritters  Pineapple   fritters 


FOOD  SERVICE  223 


Cold  Cornstarch  Desserts 


Chocolate  cream  pudding 

Plain  cornstarch  pudding  with  fruit 

with  cream 
Rebecca  pudding  with  custard 

with  chocolate  sauce 

with  cream 

with  whipped  cream 
Norwegian  prune  pudding 
Maple  nut  pudding 

Custard  Desserts 

Baked  custard,  plain 

caramel 

coffee 
Coffee  floating  island 
Cold  Cabinet  pudding 
Coffee  souffle 
Floating  island,  plain 

with  sponge  cake 

with  bananas 

with  oranges 

with  peaches 
Macaroon  cream 
Rice  lemon  custard 
Soft  chocolate  custard  with  marshmallows 

Jellied  Desserts 

Spanish  cream  with  nuts 

with  nuts  and  whipped  cream 

with  fruit 
Bavarian  cream 

Apricot 

Caramel 

Chocolate 

Coffee  walnut 

Vanilla 

Pineapple 

Raspberry 

Many  other  simple  desserts  may  be  added  to  this  list. 
Serving  them  all,  one  or  more  at  a  time,  before  repeating 
any  will  give  the  variety  so  essential  in  group  food  service. 


224  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

REFERENCE   BOOKS 

School  Lunches,  Farmer's  Bulletin  No.  712,  issued  by  the  Dept.  of 

Agriculture  at  Washington,  D.  C. 
Food  for  School  Boys  and  Girls  by  Mrs.  Rose — Teachers'  College 

Bulletin,  10  cents. 
The  School  Lunch  in  Philadelphia,  by  Emma  Smedley,  $3.00 
Food  for  the  Worker,  by  Stern  and  Spitz,  $1.00 
Camp  Cookery,  by  Kephart 
Feeding  the  Family,  by  Mrs.  Rose,  $2.40 
Laboratory  Manual  of  Dietetics,  by  'Mrs.  Rose,  $1.50 
Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  by  Miss  Farmer,  $2.50 
New  Book  of  Cookery,  by  Miss  Farmer,  $2.50 
Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty,  by  Miss  Smith,  $2.00 
School  Cafeterias,  published  by  Albert  Pick  &  Co. 
Feeding  the  School  Child,  published  by  Albert  Pick  &  Co. 
Hotel  Monthly,  November,  1921 


QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
X 

School,  Industrial  and  Community  Food  Service 

1.  Estimate  cost  for  raw  food  material  in  one  serving  each 

for  each  type  of  dish  given  in  the  list  on  page  207 ;  that 
is,  one  soup,  one  hot  dish,  etc. 

2.  Write  lists  of  dishes  for  three  days  suitable  for  a  lunch 

room  for  employees  with  prices  that  might  be  charged. 

3.  Describe  a  steam  table.     How  much  do  they  cost? 

4.  Make  a  list  of  several  combinations  of   foods  that  will 

make  palatable  casserole  dishes. 

5.  Suggest  six  ways  to  serve  the  fish  that  is  least  expensive 

or  most  common  in  your  vicinity,  so  that  people  will 
not  tire  of  it  or  even  recognize  it,  if  you  are  sometimes 
obliged  to  serve  it  oftener  than  you  like. 

6.  Tell  of  any  school,  industrial  or  community  lunch  rooms 

which  you  have  visited. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
XI 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  XI 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT 

SELECTING  THE  LOCATION  AND  NAME;  DECORATIONS,  FUR- 
NISHINGS, EQUIPMENT  AND  PLANS;  SOME  THINGS  TO  AVOID; 
TYPICAL  MENUS  FOR  TOWN  AND  COUNTRY  TEA  ROOMS;  TEA 
ROOM  SPECIALTIES  ;  SUGGESTIONS  AND  RECIPES  FOR  BEVERAGES, 
SANDWICHES,  SALADS,  HOT  DISHES  AND  DESSERTS  ;  COSTS,  PRIC- 
ING AND   PROFITS. 

INTEREST  in  opening  tea  rooms  is  v^ide  spread,  from 
the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific.  Some  people  apparently 
think  that  little  is  required  save  an  attractively  furnished 
robm  and  a  teapot  or  two,  but  we  advise  anybody  to  con- 
sider carefully,  before  investing  the  amount  of  money  that 
must  be  spent,  if  even  the  simplest  tea  room  is  to  be  opened. 

When  you  have  started  such  a  business,  in  order  to  be 
profitable,  it  may  need  to  be  developed  along  any  of  the 
avenues  suggested  in  previous  lessons  and  every  bit  of  knowl- 
edge, information  and  experience  that  you  have  gathered 
will  be  no  more  than  you  can  use,  no  matter  how  simply  you 
begin. 

The  serving  of  afternoon  tea,  only,  does  not  often  prove 
a  profitable  undertaking.  In  connection  with  a  tea  room  it 
is  wise  to  conduct  a  gift  shop  or  a  cake  shop,  to  sell  home- 
made candy  or  preserves,  operate  a  soda  fountain,  put  up 
box  lunches  for  motorists,  to  serve  lunches  and  suppers  or 
cater  for  dinner  parties. 

Many  a  tea  house  has  become  a  little  motor  inn,  serving 

225 


226  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

dainty  yet  satisfying  meals,  and  with  cool  attractive  bed- 
rooms, and  immaculate  bathrooms  for  guests  who  spend  the 
night,  and  dressing-rooms  for  others. 

From  replies  to  many  questionnaires  sent  out  to  the  man- 
agers of  successful  tea  rooms  we  list  the  following: 

Requisites  for  a  Successful  Tea  Room 

Good  location 

Unusual  or  expressive  name 

Distinctive  decorations  and  furnishings 

Absolute  cleanliness 

Competent  hostess  or  manager 

Wisely  chosen  waitresses 

Effective  advertising 

Food  beyond  criticism  and  correctly  priced 

Care  in  business  management 

Location 

A  tea  room  must  have  a  good  location,  usually  on  or  near 
a  much  traveled  road  and  preferably  on  the  first  floor.  In 
the  city,  when  selecting  the  location  for  a  tea  room,  you  might 
do  as  the  representatives  of  some  chain  stores  do,  stand  on 
the  various  corners  of  the  busy  streets  and  count  the  number 
of  people  passing  and  note  where  the  greatest  number  pass, 
of  the  type  of  people  who  might  patronize  a  tea  room. 

In  the  country  you  should  note  the  number  of  machines 
passing  on  the  various  roads,  and  whether  there  are  good 
tea  rooms  in  the  vicinity.  It  is  of  no  use  to  have  a  beautiful 
place  if  your  tea  room  is  on  a  road  where  few  or  no  autos 
travel.  You  should  also  note  whether  there  are  attractive 
surroundings  about  the  place  you  decide  upon,  whether  it 
has  a  pretty  view  at  the  back  or  at  the  front  or  in  both 
places,  shade  trees,  and  a  house  that  can  be  made  especially 
attractive.  A  summer  tea  room  may  have  an  out-of-door 
dining  porch  or  lawn  umbrellas  over  painted  tables. 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  227 

Choosing  a  Name 

A  tea  room  should  have  an  unusual  or  expressive  name, 
one  that  fits  the  location  or  the  house  or  can  be  illustrated 
on  the  sign  board  or  carried  out  in  the  decorations  and  fur- 
nishings.   For  example: 

The  Red  Squirrel  Tea  Room  may  have  a  painted  squirrel  on  the 

sign  and  should  be  located  where  at  least  an  occasional  squirrel 

is  to  be  seen. 
The  Maple  Tea  Room  may  be  under  a  grove  of  Maple  Trees  and 

specialize  in  maple  sugar  products. 
The  Ragged  Robin, 
The  Sunflower, 
Ye  Hollyhock  Tea  Room  should  each  be  surrounded  by  flowers 

of  that  name  in  the  summer  and  show  them  in  chintz,  china  or 

wall  coverings  in  the  winter. 
Canary  Cottage  Tea  Room  should  be  a  yellow  cottage  with  canaries 

in  tall  bird  cages. 
The  Green  Arbor  Tea  Room  shows  tables  under  rose  arbors,  that 

invite  you  to  tarry. 
Peggy's  Tea  Room,  where  Peggy  in  a  crisp  muslin  gown  is  seen  in 

the  garden  by  passing  motorists,  is  irresistible. 
The  Rowley-Powley  Tea  Room  is  in  the  town  of  Rowley. 
The   Bi-a-Cake    Tea    Room    and    The    Gingerbread    Tea    Room 

specialize  in  delicious  and  unusual  cakes. 
The  Crooked  Stairs  Tea  Room  suggests  a  quaint  old  house. 
Polly's  Place  serves  old  time  country  dishes,  sausages,  doughnuts 

and  English  crumpets. 
The  Sweetheart  has  maple  sugar  or  praline  hearts  as  the  specialty. 
NoBSCOT  Mountain  Orchards  specializes  in  jams,  jellies  and  other 

preserves. 
The  name  of  The  Maramor,  a  most  attractive  tea  room,  is  made 

from  the  proprietor's  name,  and  has  a  charming  cake,  candy  and 

favor  shop  in  connection  with  it. 

It  may  be  well  to  avoid  the  name  "tea  room"  as  done  by 

Ye  Bradford  Arms 

The  Lightship 

The  Seagull 

Vanity  Fair 

Sign  of  the  Apple  Tree 

Tea  and  Crumpet  Room 

Sign  of  the  Cross  Roads 

The  Five  Sisters 

The  White  Turkey 

The   Tea   Shed 

Janet's  Tea  Garden 

These  are  all  suggestive  of  location  or  decoration.    Indian 

decorations  are  used  in  some  Western  tea  rooms  and  articles 


228  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

made  by  the  Indians  are  for  sale  in  the  gift  shop  at  "The 
Sign  of  the  Totem  Pole." 

Decorations  and  Furnishings 

The  decorations  and  furnishings  should  be  distinctive  and 
dainty  and  such  as  appeal  to  women  of  taste.  In  many 
instances  the  name  is  shown  in  the  decorations  as  parrots 
of  different  colors  painted  on  the  walls  and  furniture  and 
shown  in  the  cretonne  and  china  for  a  Pretty  Pol  Tea  Room. 
The  Sunbeam  is  an  old  house  with  several  rooms  in  which 
meals  are  served.  Each  room  is  different,  has  beautifully 
decorated  walls  and  painted  tables  and  chairs,  with  window 
draperies  and  china  in  colors  that  match  or  harmonize  with 
the  walls.  Painted  furniture  seems  just  now  more  popular 
than  any  other  kind.  One  hostess  purchased  painted  mahog- 
any so  she  would  still  have  good  furniture  when  the  painted 
craze  had  died  down. 

Quaint  holders  for  flowers,  unusual  prints  on  the  walls, 
hand-made  draperies  and  doilies,  antique  treasures  of  dif- 
ferent kinds,  local  color  in  the  shape  of  ocean  or  mountain 
or  Indian  curios  all  add  interest  and  pleasure,  distinction 
and  charm,  as  do  brightly  colored  quaint  china,  polished  Rus- 
sian samovars,  Sheffield  silver  muffin  dishes,  burnished  cop- 
per utensils,  century  old  pewter,  trays  that  are  different. 

Even  though  the  furnishings  are  of  the  simplest,  if  every- 
thing is  in  good  taste  and  immaculate,  fresh  flowers  daily  on 
each  table  will  give  the  touch  that  is  far  more  appealing 
than  an  expensive,  inartistic  or  untidy  room  that  does  not 
show  the  daily  presence  and  care  of  a  "real  lady." 

Absolute  Cleanliness 

Absolute  cleanliness  should  prevail  in  every  part  of  the 
establishment.  There  should  be  no  hesitancy  in  allowing 
guests  to  inspect  the  kitchen,  refrigerator,  or  back  yard  if 
they  wish.     Waitresses  may  do  the  daily  cleaning  of   the 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  229 

dining  room  but  a  strong  person  should  clean  the  walls  and 
scrub  the  floor  every  week  or  oftener.  The  table  linen 
must  be  immaculate  whether  table  cloths,  runners,  or  doilies 
are  used.  Glass  topped  or  polished  tables  may  be  adopted  if 
desired.  Linen  or  crepe  or  paper  napkins  may  be  provided 
as  suits  the  fancy  of  the  hostess  and  the  desires  of  patrons. 

Competent  Hostess  or  Manager 

The  hostess  should  have  a  pleasing  personality,  be  fond 
of  people,  have  executive  ability  and  a  knowledge  of  cook- 
ing. She  should  endeavor  to  create  a  home-like  atmosphere 
in  a  tea  room,  that  makes  it  seem  different  from  the  ordinary 
restaurant  but,  if  it  is  to  be  a  profitable  undertaking,  it  must 
be  run  according  to  business  principles.  Among  the  many 
duties  of  the  hostess  or  manager  will  be  to 

Know,  not  merely  guess,  the  financial  standing  of  the 

tea  room  every  day. 
See  that  the  dining  room  is  well  aired  and  kept  at  the 

proper  temperature. 
Arrange  the  flowers. 
Be  accessible  to  patrons  at  all  times. 
Look  over  supplies  in  ice  box  each  morning  and  see 

that  everything  is  on  hand  that  may  be  required. 
Plan  menus  for  the  next  day  and  place  orders. 
Check  up  supplies  as  they  come  in. 
Know  that  every  dish  that  is  served  is  properly  pre- 
pared, correctly  seasoned  and  daintily  served. 
Audit  accounts  daily  and  be  sure  that  all  food  served 

has  been  paid  for. 
Supervise  the  cleanliness,  duties  and  general  deportment 
of  all  employees. 

Wisely  Chosen  Waitresses 

The  waitresses  should  be  quiet,  refined,  well  groomed, 
and  with  good  dispositions.    Their  costumes  should  be  neat 


230  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

and,  if  feasible,  in  keeping  with  the  color  scheme  and  name. 
Places  with  old  fashioned  names  and  old  fashioned  furnish- 
ings should  have  waitresses  in  old  fashioned  costumes. 
Waitresses  should  learn  to  take  orders  accurately,  fill  them 
as  quickly  as  possible,  with  care  to  avoid  accidents  of  any 
kind.  Waitresses  must  be  trained  to  remember  that  the 
customer  is  always  right.  This  principle  must  be  followed. 
They  should  have  no  arguments  with  patrons  about  any- 
thing. Each  one  should  have  a  definite  number  of  tables  and 
definite  duties  in  regard  to  the  cleaning  and  care  of  the  room. 
All  other  employees  should  also  be  selected  carefully. 
They  should  be  trained  in  your  methods.  Adjust  yourself 
to  them  and  their  dispositions.  Give  them  the  work  for 
which  they  are  best  fitted.  Secure  their  cooperation. 
Make  them  feel  that  their  work,  no  matter  what  it  is,  is  an 
important  contribution  to  the  success  of  the  tea  room. 
Raise  wages  when  business  warrants  it  or  have  some  profit- 
sharing  plan. 

Effective  Advertising 

Some  advertising  must  be  done.    You  may — 

Send  out  notices  of  your  opening. 

Take  small  space  in  the  Automobile  Blue  Book. 

Take  small  space  in  newspapers  or  magazines. 

Have  cards  and  photographs  in  nearby  hotels. 

Have  attractive  signs,  at  intervals,  for  several  miles,  on  the 
roads  leading  to  your  tea  room. 

Have  post  cards  of  your  tea  room  for  guests  to  send  to  their 
friends. 

Have  a  special  room  or  porch  where  chauffeurs  may  rest,  wash, 
read,  smoke  or  be  served  with  luncheon.  (They  will  adver- 
tise such  a  place  to  other  chauffeurs.) 

Pay  special  attention  to  the  children's  needs.  Sometimes  you 
may  give  them  cookies  or  fruit  to  take  with  them  for  a  lunch. 

Above  all  have  everything  so  satisfactory  that  your  guests  will 
advertise  you   far  and  wide. 

Food  Beyond  Criticism  and  Correctly  Priced 

As  has  been  suggested  in  previous  lessons  perfection  of 
cooking  and  a  knowledge  of  right  purchasing,  apportioning, 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT 


231 


and  pricing  food  is  the  foundation  of  success  in  all  forms  of 
Cooking  for  Profit,  and  tea  room  management  is  no  ex- 
ception. 

Care  in  Business  Management 

Carelessness  in  collecting  pay  for  every  order  served 
may  easily  spell  failure.  It  is  a  pretty  custom  to  have  bon- 
bons or  mints  in  paper  cases  served  for  each  person,  on  the 
tray  with  the  check  or  the  change.  A  tea  room,  effectively 
advertised,  should  very  soon  after  being  opened  pay  its 
running  expenses. 

If  a  tea  room  is  not  extravagantly  fitted  up,  the  profits 
should  pay  off  the  cost  of  equipment  in  one  season. 


Main  Requisite 

The  main  requisite  is  good  food  well  and  quickly  served, 
and  in  portions  not  too  small.  Tea  room  prices  should  be 
high  enough  to  warrant  the  use  of  the  best  and  freshest 
materials  and  the  choicest  recipes.  The  best  for  the  purpose 
is  the  most  economical  in  the  end.  Do  not  skimp  on  butter 
or  eggs  or  cream.  Get  the  home  flavor  into  your  dishes. 
They  need  not  be  too  rich  but  they  cannot  be  too  good. 
The  above  characteristics  in  a  tea  room  will  cause  guests  to 
return  again  and  again. 

Some  Things  to  Avoid  in  Your  Tea  Room 


Poor  entrance 

Obscure  hall 

Narrow    stairs 

No  advertising 

Cheap  pictures  on  wall 

Noise    in    kitchen 

Poor  music 

Untidiness  and  dirt 

Unmatched  or  nicked  china 

Unclean  dishes 

Slow    service 

Too  small  orders 


Too  high  prices 
Wrong     temperature 


for     the 


Mussy,   unattractive   dishes 
Poorly  seasoned  sandwiches  and 

salad  dressing 
Salads  and  foods  that  should  be 

cold,  served  warm 
Soft  butter  balls  or  cubes 
Stale   cake 
Carelessness   in   collecting  money 

for    food    sold 


232 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Equipment 

The  cost  of  equipping  a  tea  room  varies  from  $1,500 
to  many  thousands  of  dollars.  Unless  it  is  possible  to  start 
in  a  small  way  under  very  favorable  conditions,  the  wise 
person  will  seek  experience  in  a  successful  tea  room  before 
investing  her  own  or  other  people's  money  in  a  venture  that 
is  by  no  means  simple.  In  any  case,  tea  rooms  should  be 
visited,  prices  of  furnishings  and  equipment  should  be 
studied,  carpenters,  plumbers  and  decorators  should  be  con- 
sulted and  lists  and  prices  should  be  made  out  over  and  over 
until  you  are  satisfied  that  they  are  correct.  Give  space 
only  to  efficient  equipment  and  use  that  to  its  maximum  ca- 
pacity.    A  tea  room  seating  forty-eight  people  will  require 


Range 

Kitchen   Tables 

Refrigerator 

Stools 

Cooking  utensils.  (List  the 
cooking  utensils  you  think 
you  will  need  and  secure 
from  several  dealers  prices 
on  all  the  articles  you  will 
require.) 

12  tables 

48  chairs 

Cash  register 

Cashier's  desk  and  chair 

2  or  more  side  tables 

6  tray   stands 

12  trays,   15"   by  24" 

Water  cooler 

Manager's  desk 

2  or  more  boxes   for  silver 

4  doz.  7-inch  plates 

4  doz.    6-inch    plates 

4  doz.    5-inch    plates 

4  doz.  4-inch  plates 

4  doz.   cups  and  saucers 

4  doz,    sauce    dishes 

4  doz.  oatmeals  (soups) 


3  doz.    bouillon    cups 
I    doz.   tea   pots 

6  chocolate  pots 
5  doz.  water  glasses 

4  doz.  iced  tea  glasses 
3  doz.  sherbet  glasses 

I  doz.  vases  or  other  flower 
holders 

I  doz.  cream  pitchers 

I  doz.  sugar  bowls 

I  doz.  each  salts  and  pep- 
pers 

I  doz.  candlesticks 

16    doz.    napkins 

3  doz.  tablecloths  or  runner 
sets.  (These  may  be  of 
linen  or  crash  or  paper 
doilies  and  napkins  may 
be  used.) 

^  doz.    vinegar    cruets 
^  doz.   oil   cruets 
y2  doz.   mustard  jars 

4  doz.  knives 
8  doz.   forks 

8  doz.  teaspoons 
4  doz.    soup    spoons 
4  doz.  butter  spreaders 


The  foregoing  list  does  not  make  allowance  for  breakage  or  theft 
and  it  would  be  desirable  to  purchase  more  of  some  things  in  the 
beginning. 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  233 

Overhead  Expenses 

Before  investing  a  cent  of  money  you  should  figure  what 
your  overhead  expenses  are  probably  going  to  be  and  what 
your  income  is  likely  to  be. 

Decide  tentatively  on  your  specialties  and,  if  you  do  not 
already  know  from  your  experience,  learn  how  to  apportion 
the  foods  you  plan  to  serve  before  you  open  your  tea  room, 
know  the  cost  and  selling  price  of  a  definite  amount  of  each 
thing,  and  the  number  of  portions  you  must  sell  in  a  day 
in  order  to  pay  for  the  food  material  and  the  overhead 
expenses  as  estimated.  A  common  method  of  determining 
the  selling  price  of  cooked  food  is  to  double  the  cost 
of  the  raw  material.  Can  you  get  this  price?  At  this 
rate  can  you  probably  sell  enough  to  pay  expenses?  You 
may  need  to  serve  smaller  portions  of  some  dishes.  On 
some  dishes  you  should  charge  more  than  double  the  cost 
because  of  the  time  necessary  for  their  preparation.  Some 
may  have  to  be  sold  at  cost  or  less  than  cost.  If  you  feel 
confident  of  a  reasonable  profit  on  your  investment  of  money 
and  time,  then  go  ahead. 

Make  Plans  of  Kitchen  and  Dining  Room 

Before  you  equip  your  establishment  make  a  kitchen 
plan  and  a  dining  room  plan  on  paper  and  locate  the  places 
for  mixing  cake,  making  frostings,  salads  and  dressings, 
slicing  and  spreading  bread  for  sandwiches,  making  waffles, 
and  whatever  else  you  plan  to  serve.  Locate  drain  boards 
for  receiving,  sorting  and  draining  dishes.  Locate  shelves 
near  the  sink  for  clean  dishes,  near  the  work  tables  for  sup- 
plies and  equipment.  Locate  coffee  and  hot  water  urns, 
a  steam  table  for  hot  dishes  and  a  chipped  ice  tray  for  salads. 

Draw  in  the  lines  of  travel  from  refrigerator  to  work 
table,  to  range,  to  dicing  room,  to  sink,  etc.,  etc.  Shorten 
these  lines  in  every  possible  way,  on  paper,  before  building 


234  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

your  shelves  or  setting  up  refrigerator,  sink,  and  stove, 
that  all  the  work  of  your  tea  room  may  be  accomplished 
in  the  most  efficient  manner  with  a  place  for  everything  that 
will  be  needed  and  room  for  all  the  help  you  propose  to  have. 
Plan  where  the  tea  tables  and  service  tables  shall  be 
placed;  as  well  as  shelves  and  drawers,  window  boxes, 
cashier's  desk,  etc.  These  should  all  be  on  your  list  of  neces- 
sary equipment  suggested  above  and  should  now  be  located 
on  your  paper  plan.  In  the  dining  room  you  may  care  to  plan 
for  electric  wall  outlets  so  you  can  plug  in  table  lamps, 
waffle  irons,  toasters,  chafing  dishes  or  percolators  at  each 
table.  These  add  distinction  to  your  service  and  are  greatly 
appreciated  as  patrons  are  assured  of  having  their  food  hot. 
If  you  had  not  thought  before  of  the  cost  of  this  or  that, 
add  it  to  your  list,  learn  the  price  of  it  and  add  to  the 
probable  cost  of  equipment. 

What  to  Serve 

In  a  small  tea  room  it  is  desirable  to  specialize  in  a  very 
few  things  and  have  them  so  attractive  and  distinctive  and 
delicious  that  there  will  be  a  constantly  increasing  demand 
for  them.  The  dishes  most  frequently  ordered  in  tea  rooms 
are  tea  or  other  beverages,  sandwiches,  salads,  cakes  and  ice 
creams. 

There  is  danger  of  losing  money  when  very  many  dishes 
are  attempted  at  one  time,  because  of  wasted  food  or  poor 
service,  unless  you  have  a  great  deal  of  help  and  a  very 
large  patronage,  which  you  can  hardly  expect  at  first. 

Learn  how  many  sandwiches  you  should  get  from  a 
loaf  of  bread  and  from  a  definite  amount  of  butter  and  of 
different  fillings,  file  the  data  and  strive  to  maintain  this 
standard.  Know  how  many  servings  you  should  get  from 
one  quart  of  ice  cream  and  ice  cream  sauces,  and  one  pound 
nut  meats  and  use  the  same  measures  every  day.  Serve 
a  definite  number  of  salads  from  one  fowl,  one  can  of  pine- 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  235 

apple,  one  quart  mayonnaise  dressing,  etc.,  etc.  (See  pages 
99,  lOO.)  From  a  standard  cake  mixture  cut  always  the 
same  number  of  pieces  and  make  a  definite  number  of  little 
cakes  or  cookies.  Servings  may  be  larger  for  men  than  for 
women. 

As  soon  as  possible  after  you  are  started  learn  approxi- 
mately how  much  food  will  be  used  in  a  day  that  there  may 
be  no  waste  of  perishable  material.  Keep  a  sufficient  sup- 
ply of  non-perishable  supplies  on  hand  in  a  locked  store 
room  of  which  you  hold  the  key,  so  that  you  may  not  lose 
time  sending  out  unnecessarily  and  may  know  when  things 
are  getting  low.  Be  careful  not  to  have  in  the  refrigerator 
too  much  and  yet  have  sufficient  of  perishable  things  such 
as  lettuce,  lemons,  chicken  and  cream.  Accurate  record 
should  be  kept  of  the  number  of  orders  served  each  day, 
of  the  different  dishes  listed  on  the  menu,  so  that  you  will 
learn  as  soon  as  possible  the  probable  number  to  provide 

for. 

Typical  Town  and  Country  Menus 

Tea  25c  Chocolate  Fudge  Cake  15c 

Iced  Drinks  25c  Cake  15c,  loc 

Sandwiches  2Sc  Ice  cream  30c 

Buttered  toast  15c  Marmalade  20c 

Cinnamon    toast   20c  Jam  20c 
Hot  breads  20c 

Rarebit  on  toast 

Eclair 

Tea,  coffee  or  chocolate 

75  Cents ; — 

Club  Sandwich  or  Fruit  Salad 

French   Pastry   or   Plain   Ice   Cream 

Tea,  Coffee  or  Chocolate 

95  Cents 

Baked  Lobster  Cardinal  or  Patties  of  Sweetbread  with  Mushrooms 

French  Pastry  or  Ice  Cream 

Coffee,   Tea  or   Chocolate 

$1.35 

Tenderloin    Steak   Jardiniere   or 

Breast  of  Chicken  with  Mushroom  au  Paprika 

French  Pastry  or  Frozen  Pudding 

Coffee,  Tea  or  Chocolate 

$1.50 


236  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

THE  FOODS  YOU  SERVE 
Beverages 

Tea  should  be  made  as  ordered  in  individual  earthen  pots. 
Tiny  muslin  bags  holding  just  enough  tea  for  one  pot  may 
be  purchased  by  the  thousand  in  six  different  varieties, 
orange  pekoe  being  the  favorite.  Use  freshly  boiling  water 
for  each  pot  of  tea.  Many  suggestions  for  accompaniments 
are  given  on  page  103.  Cups,  saucers,  tea  spoons,  sugar 
bowl,  pitcher  of  cream  and  any  desired  garnish  should 
accompany  the  tea.  Make  a  point  of  never  forgetting 
anything  in  serving  an  order.  With  each  order  for  tea 
with  toast  or  sandwiches  a  piece  of  candied  grapefruit  or 
orange  peel  or  ginger  may  be  served. 

Coffee  must  be  freshly  made  as  often  as  necessary. 
Electric  percolators  may  be  used  and  taken  to  the  table. 
Guests  may  then  have  their  coffee  of  the  strength  most 
pleasing  to  them.  Serve  real  cream  and  enough  of  it,  and 
loaf  sugar.  In  Lesson  VI  are  suggestions  for  making  and 
serving  coffee. 

Chocolate  syrup  for  hot  or  iced  chocolate  may  be  kept 
on  hand. 

Chocolate  Syrup 

Melt 
5^  lb.  unsweetened  chocolate  over  boiling  water,  add 

2%  cups  sugar  and  ' 

54  teaspoon  salt  and  stir  until  well  mixed ;  then  pour  on  gradually 
3   cups  boiling   water,   stir   until    smooth   and   boil   five   minutes. 

Cool,  turn  into  a  jar  and  keep  in  ice  box  or  cold  place. 

Hot  Chocolate 

Add  2  to  3  tablespoons  chocolate  syrup  to  one  cup  scalded  milk. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  • 

Chocolate  Milk  Shake 

Put  two  tablespoons  chocolate  syrup  in  tall  glass  and  fill  glass  with 
ice  cold  milk.  Shake  thoroughly  and  serve  very  cold  with 
whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  237 

A  quickly  prepared  iced  fruit  drink  is  popular,  for  instance: 
Mint  Cup 

Reserve  tips  and  remove  leaves  from 
4  bunches  of  mint  and  bruise  with  the  fingers.     Cook 
2  cups  sugar  and 

2  cups  water  five  minutes,  add  mint  leaves, 
Juice  12  lemons,  and 
Green  color  paste  to  make  a  delicate  shade,  and  let  stand  over 

night.     When  ready  to  serve  strain,  fill  glass  of  cracked  ice 

half  full  of  syrup,  and  add 
Gingerale  to  fill  the  glass.    Garnish  with  reserved  tips  from  sprigs 

of  mint.     Other  fruit  juices  may  be  used  in  place  of  some 

of  the  lemon  juice.  * 

TOAST  AND  SANDWICHES 

Bread  is  used  in  tea  rooms  for  toast  of  different  kinds, 
sandwiches  with  a  great  variety  of  fillings  and  in  several 
shapes;  for  ribbon  sandwiches,  toasted  sandwiches,  club 
sandwiches,  hot  meat  sandwiches  and  French  toast  sand- 
wiches. 

White  bread  may  be  purchased  in  long  loaves  that  will 
cut  into  fifty-six  slices.  These  are  more  practical  than  the 
homemade  loaf.  Graham  bread,  nut  bread,  Boston  brown 
bread,  and  other  fancy  breads  suggested  in  Lesson  II  may 
be  used.  A  bread  cutting  machine  will  insure  uniformity, 
and  may  be  regulated  so  that  bread  may  be  cut  thin  enough 
for  sandwiches  or  thick  enough  for  toast. 

Toast 

Toast  must  be  fresh  and  hot  to  be  popular.  It  may  be 
made  in  the  kitchen  or  on  an  electric  toaster,  on  a  side 
table  in  the  dining  room,  where  guests  may  watch  the  process 
and  know  that  they  get  it  as  soon  as  it  is  ready.  Toast  may 
be  served  plain  with  butter  ball,  or  be  buttered  before  it  is 
served.     Some  fancy  breads  are  delicious  toasted.     Individ- 


238  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

ual  jars  of  marmalade  or  jam,  or  small  portions  served  on 
small  dishes  or  butter  plates,  usually  accompany  plain  toast. 

Cinnamon  Toast 

Work  until  creamy 

3  cups  butter,  add  slowly 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  and 

Yi  cup  ground  cinnamon.    Keep  in  a  cool  place.    Cut 

Stale  bread  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  remove  crusts  and  toast  on 
one  side.  Spread  untoasted  side  generously  with  a  portion  of 
the  cinnamon  mixture,  and  place  under  gas  flame  until  mix- 
ture is  melted. 

Making  Sandwiches 

Butter  for  sandwiches  should  always  be  creamed,  that 
it  may  be  quickly  and  easily  spread.  A  small  palette  knife 
or  spatula  is  desirable  for  spreading  the  filling.  It  is  ad- 
visable to  butter  both  slices  of  bread,  regardless  of  what 
filling  is  used.  Fillings  should  be  prepared  before  the  hours 
at  which  the  tea  room  is  open,  or  the  ingredients  for  fillings 
may  be  made  ready  and  kept  in  separate  dishes  ready  to  be 
put  together  at  a  moment's  notice. 

Crusts  may  or  may  not  be  removed.  Sandwiches  may  be 
cut  in  squares,  strips,  oblongs,  or  triangles.  Round  or  fancy 
cutters  may  be  used  but  with  considerable  loss  of  material. 
Before  the  hour  for  opening  the  tea  room,  the  sliced  bread 
may  be  spread  with  butter,  piled  up  and  covered  with  a  dry 
towel  or  cheesecloth  and  with  a  wet  towel.  Sandwich  fillings 
can  be  put  between  the  slices  as  orders  are  received. 

Garnishes  for  a  Plate  of  Sandwiches 

Many  sandwiches  are  more  attractive  if  served  with  a  gar- 
nish such  as 

Lettuce  leaf  holding  manyonnaise  dressing 
Spray  of  cress 
Fresh  flower  ^ 
Cube  of  firm  jelly 
Ball  of  cream  cheese 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  239 

Tiny  cucumber  pickle  with  croquette  stab  in  one  end 

Ring  of  sweet  pickled  cucumber 

Radish  rose 

Stalk  of  celery  curled  on  one  end. 

Bread  buttered  for  sandwiches  and  not  used  may  be 
utilized  next  day  for  toasted  sandwiches.  In  addition  to  the 
sandwich  filling  suggestions  on  page  107  we  list  the  follow- 
ing combinations.  They  should  be  seasoned  as  needed  with 
salt  and  cayenne  and  paprika,  materials  may  be  chopped  or 
cut  in  pieces,  and  whatever  will  secure  the  best  results  should 
be  done.  You  may  make  up  your  own  names  for  these  sand- 
wiches. 

Sandwich  Fillings 

Cream  cheese,  salad  dressing,  orange  marmalade  or  jam 

Cream  cheese,  mayonnaise  dressing,   chopped  green   pepper 

Cream  cheese,  maraschino  cherries,  marshmallow  cream 

Cream  cheese,  chopped  nuts,  prepared  mustard  or  French  dressing 

Cream  cheese,  grated  pineapple 

Cream  cheese,  peanut  butter 

Factory   cheese,    chopped   nuts,   salad   dressing 

Factory  cheese,  catsup  or  chili  sauce  _ 

Factory  cheese,  cooked  as  welsh  rarebit  or  chilaly 

Lettuce  and  mayonnaise 

Lettuce  and  Russian  dressing 

Lettuce  and  Chiffonade  dressing 

Chicken,  celery,  and  salad  dressing 

Chicken,  whipped  cream  and  lemon  juice 

Chicken,  ham,  salad  dressing 

Ham,  hard  cooked  egg,  salad  dressing 

Cooked  bacon,  hard  cooked  egg,  salad  dressing 

Sardine,  hard  cooked  egg,  salad  dressing 

Shrimps,  hard  cooked  egg,  salad  dressing 

Crab  meat,  grape  fruit,  celery,  salad  dressing 

Green  pepper  or  pimiento  chopped  and  salad  dressing 

Pimiento,  sliced,  and  salad  dressing 

Tomato  sliced,  and  salad  dressing 

Cucumber  sliced  and  salad  dressing  (Bread  cut  size  of  cucumber) 

Marmalade  and  chopped  nuts 

Cooked  prunes,  chopped  nuts  and  lemon  juice 

Raisins,  nuts  and  mayonnaise  dressing 


240  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Banana  Sandwich 

Spread 
2  slices  bread  with 

Creamed  butter.     On  one  slice  spread 
Raspberry  jam,  cover  with 
Slices  of  banana,  sprinkle  with 
Lemon  juice  and  cover  with  second  slice  of  bread.     Serve  cut  in 

squares. 

Fruit  Salad  Sandwich 

To 

I  tablespoon  mayonnaise  dressing  add 

1  tablespoon  heavy  cream  beaten  stiff.  Spread  on 

2  slices  bread.     Cover  one   slice  with  thinly  sliced 
Strawberries  or  pineapple,  and  with  the  other  piece  of  bread. 

Garnish  with 
Watercress. 

Orange  Honey  Sandwich 

Spread 
2  slices  bread  with 
Creamed  butter  and 
Orange  honey.     Put  together  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 


Orange  Honey 

Mix 
I  cup  sugar 
54  cup  water 
34   cup  orange  juice.     Boil  until  syrup  will   spin   a   thread  when 

dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.     Add 
y2  cup  finely  chopped  orange  peel   from  which  all  white  portion 

has   been   removed   and 
J^  teaspoon  vanilla.    Again  bring  to  boiling  point  and  cool. 

Rolled  Sandwiches 

Use  very  fresh  bread.  Cut  in  very  thin  slices,  remove  crusts, 
spread  with  filling,  roll  up  and  serve  two  or  three  on  a  let- 
tuce leaf.  These  are  very  dainty  and  not  commonly  served. 
Many  of  the  fillings  suggested  above,  especially  those  with 
cream  cheese,  may  be  used  for  rolled  sandwiches.  They 
may  be  toasted.  Chopped  hard  cooked  egg  or  walnuts, 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  watercress  leaves  projecting  from 
each  end  are  attractive  or  celery,  nuts  and  mayonnaise  and 
a  celery  leaf  in  each  end. 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  241 

Ribbon  Sandwiches 

These  sandwiches  are  described  on  page  io8.  Any  desired  fill- 
ings may  be  used.  Serve  one  large  slice  cut  diagonally  or  in 
three  strips  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce. 

Nut  Bread  Sandwich 

Use 

2  slices  nut  bread  (page  29)  and 

1  slice  white  bread  with  filling  of 
Chopped  ham  and 

Raspberry  jam.     Cut  in  strips  for  serving. 

Hub  Sandwiches 

Steam 

Boston  brown  bread,  and  bake 

White  bread  in  half  pound  baking  powder  cans.  Cut  length- 
wise in  quarters,  put  4  pieces  together,  making  two  loaves, 
alternating  brown  and  white,  with  a  filling  of 

Cream  cheese, 

Creamed  butter  and 

Chopped  pimolas.  Chill,  cut  in  slices  and  place  a  slice  of  pimola 
in  center  of  each  slice. 

Kindergarten  Sandwiches 

Use 

2  slices  each  light  bread  and  dark  bread;   cut  in   fancy  shapes, 

spread    i   slice  of   each   with 

Creamed  butter.  Cut  a  figure  with  a  fancy  cutter  from  the 
other  2  slices  and  place  the  dark  figure  in  the  opening  in 
the  white  bread  and  the  white  figure  in  the  opening  in  the 
dark  bread.     Put  the  two  slices  together  and  serve  on 

Lettuce. 

Salad   Eclair 

Make 
Cream  cake  mixture  (page  50)  and  shape  on  tin  sheet  five  inches 

long  and  i  inch  wide.     Bake,  split,  line  with 
Lettuce  leaf,  fill  with 
Chicken  salad  or 
Lobster  or  other  salad,  and  serve. 

Salad  Roll 

Split 
Long  rolls,  remove  soft  centers,  fill  with 
Chicken  or  other  salad  and  serve  on  a 
Lettuce  leaf. 


242  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Sweet  French  Sandwiches 

Roll 

Puff  paste  (page  46)  %  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  in  strips  3 
inches  long  and  i  inch  wide.  Bake,  split  and  spread  one-half 
with 

Whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored,  and  other  half  with  any- 
good  jelly.     Put  together   in  pairs.     Other   fillings   may   be 


used. 


Toasted  Muffins 


Split 

English  muffins,  toast,  and  spread  lightly  with 

Butter.    Serve  with 

Orange  marmalade. 

The  English  Muffins  that  are  purchased  from  a  concern  that 
makes  a  specialty  of  their  manufacture  are  more  satisfactory  than 
any  that  can  be  made  in  a  small  tea  room  because  of  the  type  of 
oven  used.  However  the  following  recipe  may  be  satisfactory. 


Raised  Muffins 

To 

I  cup  scalded  milk  add 

1  cup  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  butter, 
J4  cup  sugar  and 

I  teaspoon  salt ;  when  lukewarm,  add 

}i  yeast  cake,  and  when  dissolved, 

I   egg  well  beaten,  and 

4  cups  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  over  night.  In 
morning,  fill  buttered  muffin  rings  two-thirds  full;  let  rise 
until  rings  are  full,  and  bake  30  minutes  in  hot  oven. 


Katy's    Toasted    Raisin    Bread 

Scald 
3  cups  milk,  when  luke  warm  add 
l}i  tablespoons  salt  and 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

%  cup  lukewarm  water.     Add 

5   cups   flour,   beat  thoroughly  and   let   rise   until   it   begins   to 
sink  in  the   center.     Add 

2  cups  brown  sugar, 

^  cup  butter  or  margarine, 

2  eggs  well  beaten, 

3  cups  flour  sifted  with 
Ij/^  teaspoons  mace,  and 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  243 

IJ^  tablespoons  cinnamon;  mix  well  and  add 

1  package  raisins,  and 

1  cup  currants,  and 

1  cup  nut  meats  if  desired.    Add  sufficient 

Flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise  until  light,  shape  in 
three  loaves,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  fifty 
minutes.  After  twenty-four  hours  remove  crusts,  cut  in 
thin  slices  and  in  finger  shaped  pieces.  Brush  with  melted 
butter  and  toast  in  the  oven  until  crisp  and  delicately 
brown. 

Toasted  Sandwiches 

Hot  sandwiches  are  popular  in  most  tea  rooms.  Many  of 
the  sandwiches  listed  above  may  be  made  and  toasted  first 
on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  cut  in  two  or  three 
diagonally  and  served  immediately.  The  best  method  of 
toasting  is  under  the  gas  flame  or  on  a  flat  electric  toaster. 
Baking  in  a  hot  oven  or  sauteing  in  the  frying  pan  may  be 
substituted  for  toasting.  The  bread  may  be  toasted  on  one 
side  and  the  filling  then  be  put  between  untoasted  sides. 

Hot  Cheese  Sandwich 

Cut 
Stale  bread  in  J4  inch  slices,  remove  crusts;  cut 
Mild  cheese  in  slices  same  size  as  slices  of  bread,  and  sprinkle 

with 
Salt  and  cayenne.  Put  a  slice  of  cheese,  between  each  two 
slices  of  bread  and  toast  until  cheese  melts  or  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  cheese  melts  and  the  bread  is  browned;  or  saute 
in  butter  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other  until  deli- 
cately browned. 

Open  Hot  Cheese  Sandwich 

Split 
English  Muffins,  toast  them,  cover  each  piece  with 
Grated  cheese  seasoned  with 
Salt  and  cayenne  and  put  in  oven  until  cheese  begins  to  melt. 

Serve  three  pieces  on  a  plate  garnished  with 
Leaf  of  lettuce  and  an 
Olive. 


244  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Toasted  Cheese  and  Date  Sandwich 

Toast 
Bread  on  one  side  only,  spread  un toasted  side  with 
Butter  and  spread  one  slice  with 
Cream   cheese  moistened   with 
Milk  and  seasoned  with 
Salt  and  paprika.  Cover  with 
3  dates,  washed,  stoned  and  cut  in  thin  slices  crosswise,  sprinkle 

with 
Finely   chopped   nuts,   cover   with   another   slice  of   toast,   cut   in 

two  diagonally,  and  serve. 

Florentine  Sandwich  Seminole 

Arrange 
Boned  sardines  on  a  slice  of 
Buttered  toast,  cover  with 
Thin  slices  of  tomato  and  sprinkle  with 
Salt  and  pepper.     Cover  with  another 
Slice  of  toast  and  sprinkle  generously  with 
Soft  grated  cheese  seasoned  with 
Salt  and 
Cayenne  and  put  in  oven  long  enough  to  melt  the  cheese.     Serve 

at   once    on 
2  lettuce  leaves  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing  on  a  small  lettuce  leaf  on  the  side. 

Porto  Rico  Sandwich 

Spread 
2  slices  of  toast  with 

Tried  out  bacon  fat  in  place  of  butter.     On  one  slice  place 
Very  thin  slices  of  American  cheese,   cover   this  with 
Thin  round  slices  of  cucumber  pickles  and  pickle  with 
Crisp  bacon.     Cover  with  other   slice  of  toast;   cut  once   diago- 
nally and  serve  on 
Lettuce. 


Egomato  Toast 

On  an  individual  plate  put  a 
Leaf  of  lettuce;  on  the  lettuce  a 
Slice  of  toast  which  has  been  spread  with  a  little 
Hot  bacon  fat;  over  the  toast  put  a  large 
Spoonful  of  hot,  well  seasoned  stewed  tomato.     Cut  a 
Hard  boiled  egg  in  two,  remove  center,  and  mix  with 
Salad    dressing.      Return    to    egg    cup,    place    one    half    egg    in 
the  center  of  the  toast,  garnish  with  remaining  egg  mixture 
forced  through  pastry  bag  and  tube;   place  a 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  245 

Small,  short  stalk  of  asparagus  in  the  center  of  the  egg,  and  gar- 
nish toast  with 
2  small  strips  of  hot  cooked  bacon. 

Cheese  and  Bacon  Toast 
Beat 

1  egg,  add  as  much 

Grated  cheese  as  the  egg  will  take  up  and  season  with 

Paprika  and 

Worcestershire  sauce.     Spread  on 

2  slices  bread.     On  top  of  each  slice  lay 

2  thin   slices   bacon   and   place   under   gas    flame   until   bacon    is 

crisp. 

Toasted  Mushroom  Sandwich 
Melt 

3  tablespoons  butter,  add 
J4  cup  flour  and 

^  cup  thin  cream.     Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  to 

iJ4   pounds   chopped  mushrooms,   sauted.     Season   with 

Salt, 

Pepper  and 

Paprika.   Spread  between  thin  slices  of 

Bread;   put  together   in   pairs,  and   cut  in   finger  shaped  pieces. 

Saute  in 
Butter  until  browned  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other 

side. 

Club  Sandwich 
On  a 
Slice  of  toast  place 

Leaf  of  lettuce  washed  and  dried,  then  lay 
Thick  slice  of  tomato  on  top  and  cover  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing.     Place  another 
Slice  of  toast  above  the  tomato  and  on  it  arrange  sliced 
Chicken  covered  with 
Crisp  bacon.     Place  a  third 
Slice  of  toast  over  all,  and  garnish  with  large 
Olives  or 

Sweet  pickled  cucumber  rings  and 
Lettuce  cups  holding 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 

How  to  Use  a  Cooked  Chicken 

Use  sliced  breast  meat  of  chicken  for  club  or  sliced  chicken 
sandwiches  or  chicken  pies.  Smaller  pieces  of  chicken  and  dark 
meat  may  be  used  for  chicken  fricassee.  Trimmings  may  be  used 
for  chicken  a  la  King,  scalloped  chicken  and  potato,  or  hot  chopped 
chicken  sandwiches.  White  meat  of  chicken  cut  in  dice  is  used  for 
chicken  salads. 


246  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

French  Toast  Sandwiches 

Cut 
Bread  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  spread  i  slice  with 
Filling,   cover  with   another    slice,   cut   in   four   pieces,    dip   in   a 

mixture  of 
H  cup  milk 

I  egg  slightly  beaten  and 
14  teaspoon  salt.    Drain,  place  on  hot  buttered  griddle  and  brown 

first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 

French  Marmalade  Sandwich 

Make  French  Toast  Sandwiches  with  a  filling  of  marmalade 
Hot  Hamburg  Sandwich 

Make  French  Toast  Sandwiches  with  a  filling  of  meat  pre- 
pared as  follows : 

I  pound  chopped  beef  mixed  with 
I  cup  thin  cream 

1  teaspoon  salt 

J^  teaspoon  pepper  and 

^  teaspoon  onion  juice.  Serve  with 

Hot  brown  sauce  or 

Hot  tomato  sauce. 

Hot  Sandwiches 

Hot   Chicken   Sandwich 
Cut 
Cooked  chicken  in  small  pieces,  heat  with 
Chicken  gravy,  slightly  thickened.     Pour  over  a 
Slice  of  bread,  put  second  slice  on  top  and  pour  plain 
Chicken  gravy  over  all. 

Hot  Roast  Beef  Sandwich 

Put  slices  of 
Cold  roast  beef  (kept  warm  in  small  amount  of  gravy  under  hood 
of  steam  table)  between 

2  slices  of  bread.     Pour 
Beef  gravy  over  all. 

QUICK  HOT  BREADS 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  are  quickly  made  if  you  keep  on 
hand  flour  ready  mixed  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Each 
day  the  shortening  may  be  mixed  with  the  amount  of  flour 
you  are  likely  to  use.    As  orders  come  in  milk  may  be  added 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  247 

and  biscuits  should  be  ready  to  serve  in  20  minutes.    Serve 
with  butter  and 

Honey  or 

Maple  syrup  or 

Marmalade  or 

Jam,  preserve  or  conserve 
Baking  Powder  Biscuits  may  have  one  of  the  following 
mixtures  spread  on  the  dough  and  then  be  rolled  up,  cut  off 
and  baked: 

Butter  and  brown  sugar 

Butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon 

Butter  and  marmalade 

Butter,  sugar,  raisins  and  spice 

Butter,  maple  sugar  and  nuts 

Butter,  sugar  and  orange  juice  and  rind. 
Popovers,  served  with 

Maple  syrup 

Honey  or 

Canned  fruit — are  a  treat  to  many  people. 

WAFFLES  AND   GRIDDLE   CAKES 

Waffles  are  probably  more  popular  than  griddle  cakes  but 
the  latter  when  light,  hot  and  with  crispy  edges  may  well 
cause  patrons  to  return  for  more. 

Griddle  Cakes  with  Maple  Cream 
Sift  together 
1 5^  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
5^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar.     Add 

3  egg  yolks  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  colored, 
^  cup  milk  and 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter.    Fold  in 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.     Cook  in  large  cakes  in 

hot  greased  frying  pan.     Between  each  two  cakes  put  maple 
cream,  spread  with  maple  cream  and  serve  at  once  cut  pie 
shape. 
Waffles  with  maple  syrup  or  honey  are  the  specialty  of 
many  tea  rooms. 


248  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Waffles 

Sift  together 
lyi  cups  flour 
Yz  teaspoon  salt 
I  teaspoon  sugar 
^   teaspoon  soda,  add   slowly 
I  cup  sour  milk 
1/4  cup  melted  butter 
3  egg  yolks,  well  beaten,  and  fold  in 
3  &gg  whites  beaten  until  dry.     Cook  on  hot  waffle  iron. 

Serve  with 
Butter  and 
Honey  or  maple  syrup. 

SALADS 

Tea  rooms  usually  feature  one  or  more  salads  on  their 
menus.  A  tea  room  may  specialize  in  a  few  particularly 
delicious  salads  or  if  the  menu  is  changed  daily  a  great  num- 
ber of  salad  combinations  may  be  necessary.  With  after- 
noon tea,  fruit  salads  are  most  popular.  For  luncheon  or 
supper  salads,  chicken,  lobster,  Q.gg  and  potato  may  be 
served. 

Keep  salad  plates  or  bowls  near  the  ice.  Do  not  serve 
salads  on  plates  hot  from  the  dish  pan !  Have  enough 
china  so  such  a  thing  will  never  be  necessary. 

Enough  lettuce  should  be  washed  before  your  tea  room 
opens  to  supply  the  number  of  patrons  you  expect  to  serve. 
Put  it  in  a  large  collander,  over  it  lay  pieces  of  ice  wrapped 
in  cheesecloth  and  keep  in  refrigerator  or  salad  pan.  Have 
your  dressings  made  and  kept  very  cold.  Prepare  and  cut 
up  the  fruit,  nuts,  celery,  chicken  and  all  the  other  ingre- 
dients you  may  need  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  Make  up  each 
salad  as  it  is  ordered. 

Many  times  it  is  well  to  line  a  shallow  bowl  with  lettuce 
and  arrange  the  ingredients  of  the  salad  in  individual  piles, 
then  cover  with  mayonnaise  or  with  any  other  prepared 
dressing. 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  249 

Small  amounts  of  salad  ingredients  that  are  left  over  one 
day  may  be  used  for  salad  sandwiches  the  next  day.  Make 
every  salad  a  picture  so  that  it  will  appeal  to  the  eye  as  well 
as  the  palate. 

Lobster  Salad 

In  a  bowl  lined  with 
Lettuce  leaves  make  a  pile  each  of  pieces  of 
Lobster  meat, 

Tomato  peeled  and  cut  in  eighths, 
Celery  cut  in  one  inch  strips, 
Shredded  lettuce  leaves.    Make  a  mound  of 
Mayonnaise  dressing  in  the  center. 

Chicken  Salad 

In  a  bowl  lined  with 
Lettuce  leaves  make  one  pile  each  of 
Chicken  cut  in  dice, 
Celery  or  cucumber  cut  in  dice  and 
Hard  cooked  egg  chopped.     Serve  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Fruit  Salad 

On  a  bed  of 
Lettuce  leaves  make  one  pile  each 
Grapefruit  sections  cut  in  pieces. 
Orange  sections  cut  in  pieces. 
Pineapple  cut  in  dice 
Celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 
Nut  meats  cut  in  pieces  or 
Cheese  balls  rolled  in  chopped  nuts.     Place 
Mayonnaise  dressing  in  a  lettuce  cup  in  the  center. 

Other  fruits  that  are  in  season  may  be  used  instead  of 
those  specified.  Cooked  meat,  fish,  eggs,  vegetables,  rice  or 
macaroni,  celery,  cucumbers,  fresh  or  canned  fruit,  nuts  and 
cheese,  alone  or  in  combination  can  all  be  used  for  salads. 
Use  3^our  own  ingenuity  and  you  may  secure  some  new  and 
attractive  salads.  Maraschino  cherries  on  fruit  salads  are 
popular,  chopped  pistachio  nuts  add  character  to  many 
simple  salads.  The  combinations  suggested  on  page  115  may 
be  used.    A  few  more  suggestions  are  given  here: 


250  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Salad  Combinations 

Chicken  with  celery,  hard  cooked  eggs,  cabbage,  cucumber,  nuts, 
peas  or  tomatoes 

Cooked  lamb  and  green  peas 

Shrimps  with  cucumber 

Salmon  with  cucumber  and  hard  cooked  egg 

Tuna  fish,  celery  and  pickle 

Cooked  lima  beans,  onion,  celery  and  pimiento 

Cream  cheese  balls  rolled  in  chopped  parsley  or 
chopped  nuts  or 
paprika 

Cheese  balls  made  of  cheese  mixed  with 
chopped  nuts  or 
chopped  pimiento  or 
chopped  olives 

Potato  with  hard  cooked  egg,  pimiento,  chives,  cream  dressing 

Potato  with  hard  cooked  egg,  grated  carrot,  pickle  and  chopped  or 
shredded  cabbage 

Egg  stuffed  on  slice  of  tomato  on  toast  on  lettuce 

Cabbage  and  nuts 

Tomatoes  with  cheese  balls  and  cress 

Tomato  slices  with  cheese  between 

Tomato  stuffed  with  pineapple  and  nuts 

Vegetables  in  separate  groups;  peas,  beet  dice,  carrot  dice,  potato 
dice,  string  beans,  shredded  cabbage,  cauliflower,  celery,  cucum- 
ber 

Apple,  celery  and  cocoanut 

Banana  rolled  in  peanuts  with  orange  slices 

Banana,  raisins  and  chopped  nuts 

Orange  sections,  strawberries  or  cherries  and  cheese  balls  rolled  in 
chopped  nuts 

Grapefruit,  celery  and  green  pepper 

Grapefruit  and  orange  sections,  green  or  red  pepper  strips 

Grapefruit  and  orange  sections,  with  date  strips,  served  star  shape 

Grapefruit,  orange  sections,  pineapple,  marshmallows  and  nuts 

Grapefruit  and  orange  sections,  white  grapes,  cheese  balls,  with  nuts 

Pear,  celery  and  maraschino  cherry 

Pineapple,  celery  and  mint 

Pineapple  with  celery,  nuts,  and  maraschino  cherries 

Pineapple  with  slices  of  green  pepper  stuffed  with  cheese 

Pineapple  slice  with  half  banana  standing  upright  in  center,  maras- 
chino cherry  on  top 

Pineapple  with  grapefruit  and  maraschino  cherries 

Casaba  melon  sections  with  orange  or  grapefruit 

Watermelon  balls  and  cheese 

Alligator  pear  alone  or  in  combination  with  acid  fruits 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  251 

HOT  DISHES 

Most  tea  rooms  specialize  in  one  or  more  hot  dishes  mak- 
ing it  possible  for  patrons  to  secure  a  real  meal  at  odd  hours. 
A  "Rabbit  Den"  in  which  Welch  Rarebits  were  the  chief 
attraction  proved  popular  in  one  town.  Chicken  fried  or 
chicken  a  la  King  have  made  the  reputation  of  some  tea 
rooms  as  have  broiled  live  lobster  or  fresh  crab  meat  New- 
burg,  or  planked  white  fish.  Tea  rooms  that  serve  lunches 
and  suppers  may  have  one  or  more  different  hot  dishes  on 
the  menu  each  day.  The  following  dishes  are  taken  from 
a  variety  of  menu  cards. 

Broiled  chicken  with  waffles 

Baked  beans  in  individual  pots 

Corned  beef  hash   (with  poached  egg) 

Chicken  croquettes  with  peas 

Halibut  croquettes 

Fish  cake  with  poached  egg 

Fried  ham  and  eggs 

Filet  of  sole  with  tomato  sauce 

Omelette  aux  fines  herbes 

Stuffed  green  peppers,  sauce  epicure 

Chicken  pie  with  potato  crust 

Rice  croquettes  with  cheese  sauce 

Chicken  and  ham  pie 

Chicken  pie  with  macaroni 

Hot  potato  salad  and  bacon 

Chicken  liver  saute  with  bacon  and  creamed  potatoes 

Fresh  shrimp  patty 

Boiled  salmon,  egg  sauce,  new  potatoes,  green  peas 

Broiled   lamb   chops,   currant  jelly,   creamed   potato,   scalloped   tgg 

plant 
Chops  with  lettuce  salad 

Shattuck  halibut,  cabbage  salad,  parsley  potatoes 
Fried  oysters  with  bacon 
Fresh  spinach  and  poached  eggs  on  toast 
Chili  con  carne  with  rice 
Creamed  chopped  beef  on  toast 

Fried  chicken,  Maryland  style,  corn  fritters,  and  glace  sweet  potatoes 
Veal  cutlet,  scalloped  tomatoes,  baked  potato 
Small  steak,  creamed  cauliflower,  French  fried  potatoes 
Lamb  chop,  string  beans,  mashed  potatoes 
Egg  croquettes,  tomato  sauce 
Stuffed  eggs  on  toast  a  la  King 
Oyster  pie 
French  omelets 


252  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Broiled  oysters  wrapped  in  bacon  on  toast  with  brown  sauce 

Puree  of  tomato 

Beef  bouillon 

Cream  of  celery  soup 

Cream  of  cauliflower  soup 

Chicken  soup  with  barley 

Puree  of  split  peas 

Scotch  barley  broth 

Bean  chowder 

Cream  of  corn  soup 

Creamed  Dishes 

White  sauce  is  quickly  and  easily  made.  It  may  be  sea- 
soned with  celery  salt,  onion  juice,  chopped  peppers,  lemon 
juice,  parsley  or  table  sauce.  Egg  yolks  may  be  added  to 
the  sauce,  if  desired;     In  it  may  be  served  with 

Slices  of  toast 

Cheese,  eggs  and  seasonings 

Cold  cooked  potatoes,  diced,  and  grated  cheese 

Shrimps  and  peas 

Shrimps  and  cooked  rice  and  chili  sauce  for  flavor 

Oysters  and  celery 

Salmon  and  celery 

Chicken  strips  or  cubes 

Chicken  and  potato  cubes 

Chicken  and  mushrooms 

Chicken  and  celery 

Chicken  and  ripe  olives 

Chicken,  mushrooms  and  pimiento  strips 

Chicken  and  pimiento  strips 

Chicken,  piriiiento  strips  and  cooked  macaroni  or  spaghetti 

Chicken  and  green  pepper  strips 

Chicken  and  oysters 

Chicken  and  ham  dice 

Sweetbreads  diced  and  mushrooms 

Fresh  honeycomb  tripe  and  small  boiled  onions 

Lobster  dice 

Flaked  cooked  fish  and  hard  cooked  eggs 

Sardines  flaked  and  hard  cooked  eggs 

Asparagus  tips  and  hard   cooked  eggs 

Chicken  and  hard  cooked  eggs 

Cooked  rice,  curry  and  hard  cooked  eggs 

Shell  fish  with  cooked  rice  and  curry 

Crab  meat  and  red  or  green  pepper 

Shad  roe  and  celery 

Cooked  sweet  potato  cubes 

Roast  fresh  pork 

Cooked  veal 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  253 

Any  of  these  dishes  may  be  served  from  individual  chafing 
dishes  or  casseroles,  on  toast  or  in  patty  cases.  With 
simple  creamed  things,  a  relish  will  be  appreciated  as  spiced 
figs  with  creamed  chicken,  watermelon  pickle  with  creamed 
fresh  pork,  sliced  tomatoes  with  cheese  dishes,  chutney  with 
curried  dishes. 
Cheese  may  be  served  as 

Welch  rarebit 

English  monkey 

Cheese  toasf 

Cheese  and  tomato  rarebit 

Cheese  and  scrambled  eggs 

Cheese  dreams 

Cheese  sandwiches 

CAKES 

The  most  popular  cakes  in  most  tea  rooms  are  those  with 
soft  flufTy  frostings,  such  as 

Dark  chocolate  cake  with  marshmallow  filling  and  white 

frosting  with  bitter  chocolate  on  top 
White  cake  with  chocolate  frosting 

Yellow  cake  with  chocolate  frosting,  and  filling  contain- 
ing nuts  and  candied  fruit 
Very  thin  cookies,  macaroons,  sponge  cake  and  angel  food 

cake  also  have  their  appeal. 
Any  of  the  cakes  and  frostings  noted  in  lesson  IV  may  be 
used.     Select  your  specialties  perhaps  from  pages  66  to  y^ 
and  maintain  your  standard  without  fail.    Never  serve  cake 
that  is  more  than  two  days  old. 

Use  for  Stale  Cakes 

Cakes  may  be  sold  at  cost  at  the  end  of  the  second  day, 

or  stale  cake,  crumbs  and  ends  of  cake  that  result   from 

cutting  cake  in  fancy  shapes,  may  be  used  for  pudding;  or, 

rubbed  through  a  coarse  sieve  or  when  dry,  forced  through 


254  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

the  food  chopper,  the  crumbs  may  be  substituted  for  half  the 
flour  in  hermits,  spice  cakes  and  Boston  brown  bread. 

PASTRY 

French  pastries  on  pages  46  and  47  are  very  popular  in 
some  tea  rooms.  Summer  tea  rooms  had  better  not  attempt 
to  make  puff  paste  as  it  is  difficult  to  handle  in  hot  weather. 

ICE  CREAM  DISHES 

Ice  cream,  served  in  different  ways  and  with  different 
sauces,  may  be  made  or  purchased.  Buy  it,  the  best  quality 
you  can  secure,  if  your  facilities  for  making  it  are  not  first 
class.  Sherbets  and  water  ices  are  more  popular  than  poor 
ice  cream.  Most  people  like  sauces  of  some  kind  with  ice 
cream.  A  Thermos  bottle  may  be  used  to  keep  chocolate, 
butterscotch,  and  similar  sauces,  hot.  Ice  cream  sandwiches 
or  shortcakes  are  popular. 

Ice  Cream  Shortcake  with 
Butterscotch  Sauce 

Place  a  slice  of  white  cake  on  the  serving  dish,  cover  with 
a  slice  of  ice  cream,  with  another  slice  of  cake,  pour  butter- 
scotch sauce  (page  122)  over  all  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
nuts. 

Ice  Cream  Shortcake  with 
Fresh  Strawberries 

Use  strawberry  ice  cream  between  two  slices  of  white  or 
angel  cake  and  cover  with  fresh  strawberries  crushed  and 
sweetened. 

Ice  Cream  Shortcake 
With  Fudge  Sauce 

Use  chocolate  ice  cream  between  two  slices  cake  and  cover 
with  fudge  sauce. 


TEA  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  255 

Other  popular  ices  are : 

Chocolate  Peppermint  Sundae 

Chocolate  ice  cream  served  with  marshmallow  sauce,  fla- 
vored with  oil  of  peppermint. 

Fudge  Marshmallow  Sundae 

Ice  cream  covered  with  marshmallow  sauce  and  then  with 
fudge  sauce. 

Luxury  Eclairs 

Eclairs  filled  with  ice  cream  and  with  hot  fudge  sauce  or 
fresh  strawberry  sauce  poured  over. 

Meringue  Glace 

Two  meringues  with  center  removed,  ice  cream  between 
and  a  few  crushed  strawberries,  or  maraschino  cherries, 
over  the  ice  cream. 

MENUS 

For  luncheon,  dinner,  and  party  menus  for  a  tea  room 
many  suggestions  will  be  found  in  preceding  lessons  and  it 
does  not  seem  necessary  to  discuss  them  here.  Prices  must 
be  carefully  made  and  the  dishes  selected  as  specialties 
must  be  so  standardized  that  they  will  .always  taste  the  same 
whether  the  patrons  come  in  every  week  or  do  not  return 
for  several  months. 

Before  and  after  opening  your  own  place,  or  acting  as 
manager  for  some  one  else,  visit  as  many  successful  tea 
rooms  as  you  can.  Notice  the  dishes  that  are  most  fre- 
quently called  for.  Note  the  points  that  could  be  improved 
and  then  work  hard  in  your  own  place  and  success  should 
attend  you. 


256  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Standard  Cook  Books 

Journal  of  Home  Economics,  April  1920 — Baltimore,  Md. 
Hotel   Monthly  Magazine — Chicago,  Illinois. 
American  Cookery  Magazine — Boston,  Mass. 
Tea  Rooms — Albert  Pick  &  Co.,  Chicago. 

The  Lunch  Room  as  a  Money  Maker — Patterson  Pub.  Co.,  $2.00. 
Woman's  Home  Companion,  Jan.,  192 1 — Crowell  Publishing  Co. 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

XI 

Tea  Room  Management 

1.  Estimate  the  cost  of  raw  materials  for  the  afternoon  tea 

menu  priced  at  95  cents  on  page  235. 

2.  How  much  help  is  necessary  in  a  tea  room  seating  48 

people?    Specify  the  duties  of  each  person. 

3.  If  you  are  thinking  of  opening  a  tea  room  secure  data 

as  to 

(a)  Rent  of  a  desirable  house  or  space 

(b)  Cost  of  decorating  same 

(c)  Cost  of  large  equipment   for  kitchen  and  dining 

room  of  the  size  you  have  in  mind. 

(d)  Cost  of  small  equipment  for  dining  room  only  as 

listed  on  page  232. 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 
XII 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

PART  XII 


CAFETERIA  AND 
LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT 

By 
Marion  E.  Hopkins 

Field  Secretary  for  Cafeterias 
National  Y.  W.  C.  A. 

EQUIPMENT,  ARRANGEMENT  AND  COST;  HOW  TO  USE  AND  CARE  FOR 
STEAM  TABLE  AND  COFFEE  URNS ;  HELP  REQUIRED ;  DUTIES  OF  HELP ; 
STORE  ROOM  MANAGEMENT;  INCOME  NECESSARY  FOR  PROFIT;  TYPICAL 
MENUS. 

THE  small  cafeteria  is  beginning  to  vie  with  the  tea 
room  in  popularity  as  a  channel  through  which  a  clever 
woman  may  turn  her  culinary  ability  into  profit.  Such 
cafeterias  may  be  found  in  many  small  cities  where  the  aver- 
age restaurant  manager  has  not  learned  the  art  of  supplying 
"home-cooked"  food ;  they  also  exist  in  tucked  away  corners 
of  large  cities  where  the  "something  different"  which  they 
supply  brings  them  their  necessary  quota  of  patronage.  The 
reasons  which  have  been  given  for  the  popularity  of  cafe- 
teria service  are: 

The  saving  of  money  to  the  customer  since  the  reduced 
cost  of  operating  expenses  makes  possible  the  charg- 
ing of  moderate  prices  and  also  an  absence  of  tips. 
The  saving  of  time  to  the  customer. 
The  stimulation  of  the  appetite  by  the  tempting  display 

of  dishes. 
Larger  profits  are  possible  to  the  cafeteria  owner  than  to 
the  tea  room  owner  as  a  larger  volume  of  business  can  be 
taken  care  of  for  the  same  overhead  expense. 

257 


258  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Counter  service  is  a  more  specialized  task  than  waitress 
service,  therefore  the  training  and  oversight  of  employees  is 
simpler  in  the  cafeteria  than  in  the  tea  room  or  lunch  room. 
Waitresses  usually  must  price  the  customer's  check  in  lunch 
rooms,  a  responsibility  which  never  falls  to  the  counter 
server. 

The  careful  selection  of  attractive  furnishings  and  color 
schemes  in  the  most  modern  cafeterias,  adds  to  these  points 
of  advantage,  a  "tea-room  atmosphere"  which  is  an  improve- 
ment over  the  bare  and  unattractive  room  which  is  usually 
associated  with  the  name. 

Considerable  noise  is  frequently  eliminated  and  the  rather 
unsightly  view  of  the  passing  "line"  by  erecting,  a  few  feet 
in  front  of  the  counter,  a  well  designed  screen.  In  some 
few  cafeterias  the  counter  occupies  a  distinct  room  from  the 
dining  room  but  this  is  not  often  possible. 

Arrangement  and  Equipment 

Equipment  firms  will  make,  without  charge,  blue  prints 
of  recommended  floor  plans  showing  the  location  of  all  fix- 
tures, but  the  cafeteria  manager  should,  however,  know  the 
principles  of  operation  which  govern  their  location  and  have 
a  sufficient  knowledge  of  equipment  to  select  that  best  suited 
to  her  purpose. 

Except  in  large  cafeterias  where  expensive  subveyor  serv- 
ice is  possible  it  is  best  to  have  dining  room  and  kitchen  on 
the  same  floor.  The  counter  should  be  at  the  rear  of  the 
dining  room  to  provide  for  the  formation  of  a  "line"  dur- 
ing busy  hours.  There  should  be  two  points  of  access  from 
kitchen  to  dining  room,  one  for  the  supply  of  food  to  the 
counter,  one  for  the  removal  of  soiled  dishes  from  dining 
room.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  latter  is  at  the  oppo- 
site side  of  the  room  from  that  on  which  the  customers 
approach  the  counter  so  that  there  is  no  possibility  of  the 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT 

line  of  customers  coming  in  contact  with  employees  re 
ing  soiled  dishes. 

The  Serving  Counter 

The  counter  is  usually  placed  four  feet  in  front  of  the 
partition  wall  between  kitchen  and  dining  room.  A  twelve 
or  fifteen  inch  service  shelf,  counter  height,  is  usually  built 
on  this  wall,  frequently  with  cupboards  under.  This  leaves 
three  feet  of  working  space  for  employees  between  shelf  and 
counter.  When  space  is  limited  this  may  be  shortened  to 
thirty  inches.  An  inset  should  be  made  in  the  service  shelf 
directly  behind  the  dessert  and  coffee  counter  for  the  placing 
of  a  small  refrigerator  to  hold  milk,  cream,  butter  and  other 
counter  supplies  which  should  be  kept  cold. 

Standard  counters  are  now  built  by  all  equipment  firms. 
They  are  thirty  inches  wide,  thirty-six  inches  high  and  are 
made  with  a  sanitary  base.  They  are  built  of  wood,  galva- 
nized metal  painted  to  match  woodwork,  vitrolite  glass  with 
nickel  trimming,  and  enamel  baked  on  metal.  Tops  may  be 
of  wood  (heat  and  waterproof  finish),  monel  metal  or  vitro- 
lite glass.  With  a  wood  or  glass  top,  metal  protection  under 
the  coffee  urn  must  be  supplied. 

Locally  Built  Counters 

It  is  possible  to  have  a  local  carpenter  build  a  counter,  if 
measurements  are  carefully  made  for  the  insets  of  salad 
pan,  steam  table,  coffee  urn  stand,  ice  cream  cabinet.  Wood 
panelling  should  be  used  in  preference  to  sheathing  as  the 
many  joints  of  the  latter  offer  a  harbor  for  vermin.  Because 
of  the  frequent  warping  of  a  wood  facing  in  front  of  a 
steam  table  this  section  of  facing  is  frequently  omitted  and 
the  steam  table  front  is  set  flush  with  the  counter  front. 
The  steam  table  front  may  then  be  finished  in  Russia  iron 
with  nickel  trimmings  or,  if  of  galvanized  iron,  may  be 
painted  to  match  woodwork. 


260  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

A  double  or  triple  bar  nickel  tray  rail  supported  on  nickel 
brackets  should  extend  the  length  of  the  counter.  This  is 
one  of  the  expensive  fittings  which  is  well  worth  its  cost. 
One  shelf  for  dish  storage  should  extend  under  the  counter. 
Twenty  feet  may  be  considered  a  minimum  length  for  the 
counter.  A  division  which  may  increase  proportionately 
with  the  length  of  the  counter  is 

Three  feet  for  salad  pan 

Two  feet  for  bread  and  butter  counter 

Six  feet  for  steam  table 

Three  feet  for  dessert  counter 

Two  feet  for  coffee  urn  space 

Two  feet  for  ice  cream  cabinet 

Two  feet  for  checker's  desk 
Usually  a  tray  and  silver  stand  is  provided  before  the 
customer  reaches  the  counter.  If  it  is  necessary  to  use  coun- 
ter space  for  this  purpose  an  additional  three  feet  must  be 
allowed  and  an  allowance  of  two  feet  extra  must  be  made 
if  the  checker  is  to  serve  also  as  cashier. 

A  glass  display  shelf  twelve  inches  wide  and  set  twelve 
inches  above  the  counter  usually  extends  over  salad  and 
bread  counter  and  also  over  dessert  counter. 

The  Salad  Pan 

An  insulated  salad  pan  is  considered  today  as  essential  in 
a  cafeteria  as  a  steam  table  if  cold  foods  are  to  be  served 
cold  as  well  as  hot  foods  hot.  The  steam  table  follows  the 
salad  pan  in  the  counter  for  several  reasons. 

1.  By  placing  as  late  as  possible  in  the  counter  there  is  the 

assurance  that  the  hot  foods  will  reach  the  table  in 
as  palatable  a  condition  as  possible. 

2.  Congestion  in  the  line  is  avoided,  for  when  the  steam 

table  conies  first  in  order  all  customers  stop  at  that 
point;  with  the  salad  counter  first  many  stop  at  that 
point  but  others  go  on  at  once  to  the  steam  table. 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT   261 

3.  The  average  customer  selects  the  first  attractive  dish  to 
meet  his  eye,  therefore  an  early  display  encourages 
the  purchase  of  healthful  foods  and  at  the  same  time 
brings  a  maximum  profit  to  the  cafeteria  owner. 

(I  stress  the  first  reason  as  strongly  as  the  second.) 
Usually  bowls  of  lettuce  and  salad  mixtures  are  placed  in 

the  salad  pan  and  individual  portions,  served  almost  to  order, 

are  placed  on  the  glass  display  shelf. 

The  Steam  Table 

The  steam  table  should  be  built  with  a  dish  warmer  and  is 
in  most  cases  fitted  with  gas  connections.  In  large  cafeterias 
and  in  those  placed  in  institutional  buildings  or  factories, 


/— ^                                            x^-^ 

(     A     )                B                   ©          (      0     ) 

^                 0      X 

( * )     ^     ©  (  0 

^ — y                          v_^ 

PLAN   OF    STEAM   TABLE 

A,  Vegetable  or  Soup  Inserts;  B,  Meat  Pans;  C,  Gravy  Inserts;  D,  Vegetable 
Inserts;  E,  Meat  Pans 


steam  is  frequently  used  for  heating.  The  tops  are  made 
of  monel  metal,  German  silver,  white  enamel  on  iron, 
(named  in  the  order  of  their  preference).  Copper  is  seldom 
used  for  this  purpose  today  because  of  the  difficulty  of 
cleansing.  Monel  metal  is  strong,  cleans  easily  and  gives 
many  years  of  wear.  Nickel-plated  copper  is  undesirable 
because  with  constant  polishing  the  nickel  wears  off.  White 
enamel  meat  pans  and  Hall  china  vegetable  and  gravy  in- 
sets prove  satisfactory.  Retinned  "copper  pans"  are  in  con- 
stant need  of  retinning  and  do  not  clean  well.  Aluminum 
discolors.     Monel  metal  pans  are  sometimes  used  but  are 


262  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

difficult  to  secure.     The  following  plan  is  suggested  for  a 
small  steam  table 

2  large  vegetable  insets  (one  for  soup) 

2  half  size  meat  pans 

3  round  gravy  insets 

2  large  vegetable  insets 
2  half  size  meat  pans 

A  six  inch  carving  board  is  on  one  side  only.  Entree  pans 
may  replace  the  second  set  of  vegetable  pans  as  they  dis- 
play vegetables  equally  as  well  as  meats.  Macaroni  and 
cheese  and  similar  dishes  are  cooked  in  the  pan  in  which 
they  are  displayed.  For  this  reason  it  is  well  to  order  with 
the  steam  table  twelve  or  more  extra  meat  pans.  For  small 
cafeterias,  it  is  well  to  order  also  several  extra  vegetable  in- 
sets. The  small  pan  assures  a  constant  fresh  display  of 
foods  and  is  also  economical  of  space.  Larger  cafeterias 
use  a  majority  of  small  pans  but  also,  for  popular  dishes, 
some  of  the  full  sized  ones. 

The  Coffee  Urn 

A  six  gallon  combination  coffee  urn  with  large  water 
jacket  is  recommended  for  this  size  counter.  If  this  cannot 
be  secured,  an  eight  gallon  hot  water  urn  and  a  six  gallon 
coffee  urn  should  be  provided.  These  may  be  set  directly 
behind  the  counter  or  at  right  angles  to  it  rather  than  upon 
it. 

The  ice  cream  cabinet  is  sometimes  provided  without 
charge  by  the  firm  supplying  the  ice  cream.  When  this  is 
the  case  it  should  be  well  fitted  into  the  counter. 

The  health  laws  of  some  cities  and  states  require  glass 
protection  of  all  foods  displayed  for  sale.  Special  construc- 
tion can  be  recommended  by  local  glass  dealers  when  this 
is  true. 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  263 
The  Traffic  Rail 

A  traffic  rail  to  guide  customers  to  checker  is  placed  about 
three  feet  from  the  counter.  This  may  be  of  pipe  iron 
painted  or  of  the  more  expensive  cord  and  pedestal  variety. 

The  Water  Cooler 

A  water  cooler  with  trays  of  glasses  on  shelves  adjoining 
should  be  centrally  located  in  the  dining  room.  The  type  is 
best  in  which  city  water  passes  through  coils  in  an  ice  cham- 
ber and  does  not  come  in  contact  with  the  ice. 

Plumbing 

In  addition  to  kitchen  plumbing  water  should  be  piped  to 
water  cooler,  steam  table  and  coffee  urn,  gas  piped  to  steam 
table  and  coffee  urn,  drainage  provided  for  water  cooler,  salad 
pan,  steam  table,  coffee  urn  and  ice  cream  cabinet. 

Care  of  Steam  Table  and  Coffee  Urn 

It  is  surprising  how  frequently  the  proper  care  is  not 
taken  of  these  two  expensive  pieces  of  equipment.  The 
water  pan  of  the  steam  table  should  be  drained  and  thor- 
oughly cleaned  each  day  after  the  evening  meal  and  left 
dry  until  time  for  its  next  use.  A  failure  to  do  this  causes 
the  accumulation  of  rust  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  which  in 
time  causes  holes  in  the  metal.  The  smell  of  combined 
grease  and  rust  in  an  uncleaned  steam  table  water  pan  is  un- 
mistakable. It  speaks  of  slovenly  habits  which  mean  poor 
business  management.  Coffee  should  never  be  left  standing 
in  an  urn  after  a  meal.  It  leaves  a  sediment  in  the  jar  which 
spoils  the  flavor  of  future  coffee.  The  coffee  should  be  drawn 
off  and  the  jar  washed  after  each  use,  with  warm  water  with 
an  occasional  addition  of  soda.    Poor  coffee  is  more  frequent- 


2^4  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

ly  caused  by  unclean  jars  than  any  other  one  thing.  A  fresh 
coffee  bag  should  be  used  each  week.  It  should  be  washed 
after  use  in  cold  water  and  hung  to  dry. 

Kitchen,  dish  washing  space,  store  rooms,  employees' 
dressing  rooms,  and  manager's  office  do  not  differ  from  those 
of  tea  rooms  or  small  restaurants  of  similar  size. 

Kitchen  Equipment 

A  two  section  gas  range  with  large  ovens  is  sufficient  for 
baking  as  well  as  other  cooking  for  an  attendance  of  less 
than  two  hundred  and  fifty.  For  more  than  this  a  pastry 
oven  should  be  added.  There  should  be  a  cook's  table  with 
a  pot  rack  over  it,  bakers'  table  with  metal  bins,  bread  cut- 
ting table  accessible  to  bread  supply,  salad  preparation  table 
accessible  to  sink  and  refrigerator.  A  standard  large  refriger- 
ator should  be  provided  as  well  as  a  small  one  behind  the 
counter. 

Three  sinks  are  a  minimum  for  dishwashing,  pot  washing, 
salad  and  vegetable  preparation ;  the  latter  should  be  used  for 
tray  and  glass  washing  during  meal  hours.  They  should  be 
made  of  galvanized  iron  with  metal  drain  boards.  The  one 
for  dishes  should  be  double  with  long  galvanized  tables  ad- 
joining for  soiled  and  clean  dishes. 

Labor  Saving  Machinery 

A  Sterling  Bread  Slicer  No.  50  and  an  Adjustable  Butter 
Cutter  are  necessary  items.  A  dishwashing  machine,  vege- 
table peeler,  electric  mixer  may  all  be  wisely  added  for 
numbers  over  250. 

Store  Room 

A  first  shelf,  barrel  height,  and  others  fifteen  inches  wide 
and  fifteen  inches  apart  have  been  found  to  hold  two  rows 
of  No.  ID  cans  or  three  rows  of  No.  2  cans  without  waste 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  265 

of  space.    A  small  "day  storage'^  space  for  the  cook  should 
be  provided  in  the  kitchen. 

Trays,  Silver,  Glass 

The  following  figures  are  based  on  a  seating  capacity  of 
sixty. 

90  Wearever   Aluminum   trays    No.   348    (i7^"xii%") 

8  doz.  dessert  spoons    (soup) 

ID  doz.  medium  knives 

10  doz.  medium  forks 

15  doz.  teaspoons 

8  doz.  soup  bowls 

10  doz.  7  inch  plates 

20  doz.  4  inch  plates 

10  doz.  teacups 

8  doz.  saucers 

20  doz.  sauce  dishes  (vegetables,  desserts) 

8  doz.  butter  chips 

20  doz.  water  tumblers 

15  only  salts,  peppers,  vinegar  cruets 

3  doz.  individual  teapots 

A  good  grade  of  restaurant  silver  and  hotel  china  with  a 
rolled  edge  is  recommended.  Other  glassware  may  be  pur- 
chased for  variety  in  counter  display. 

Kitchen  Utensils 

This  can  best  be  selected  by  the  manager.  It  is  wise  to 
leave  a  portion  of  this  appropriation  to  be  spent  as  needs 
arise.     Aluminum  ware  proves  economical  in  usage. 

Furniture 

Oblong  tables  are  most  economical  of  space,  those  thirty 
inches  wide  and  forty-eight  inches  long  prove  most  popular. 
Bentwood  or  rush  bottom  chairs  are  light  and  durable.  Cos- 
turners  are  considered  essential. 


266  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Menu 

A  menu  board  having  white  gummed  letters  on  black 
cards  is  very  satisfactory.  It  is  well  to  have  two  of  these 
boards,  one  placed  where  customers  may  study  it  before 
reaching  the  counter,  and  one  back  of  the  counter. 

The  small  cafeteria  need  not  offer  a  large  variety  of  dishes 
daily  but  a  variety  from  day  to  day.  A  cafeteria  specializing 
on  hot  breads,  fresh  vegetables,  moderately  priced  salads,  and 
homemade  desserts  furnishes  keen  competition  to  the 
average  "Meat  and  Potato  Restaurant."  One  roast  meat 
or  fish,  one  made  dish,  as  baked  hash,  stew,  beef  pie,  one 
entree,  as  baked  beans,  macaroni  and  cheese,  Italian  spa- 
ghetti, one  starchy  vegetable,  and  two  green  vegetables  should 
suffice  for  the  steam  table.  Salads  will  vary  with  the  sea- 
son; egg  and  fish  salads  as  well  as  vegetable  salads  are  pop- 
ular sellers.  Two  kinds  of  pie,  one  cake,  baked  apple 
or  fruit  sauce  and  ice  cream  are  sufficient  desserts.  Prices 
vary  with  localities.  One  hundred  per  cent  over  the  cost  of 
raw  food  is  usually  charged  to  provide  for  overhead  ex- 
pense and  profit. 

Employees 

Employees  are  needed  for  several  distinct  types  of  service 

Cooking — Food  production 
Counter  Service — Salesmanship 
Checking,  Cashiering,  Bookkeeping — Clerical 
Dining  room  work,   dishwashing — Cleaning 

A  minimum  number  would  be 

I  cook 

1  helper 

2  dishwashers  and  cleaners 
I  salad  maker  and  server 

I  steam  table  server 

I   dessert  and  coffee  server 

1  checker,     cashier  and  bookkeeper 

2  dining   room   employees 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  267 

A  pastry  cook  would  be  the  first  addition.  Some  of  these 
workers  may  be  part  time  and  the  duties  of  some  may  over- 
lap. Each  community  will  determine  the  amount  of  wages 
to  be  paid.  Fair  w^ages,  fair  hours,  and  good  working  con- 
ditions are  requisite  for  efficient  loyal  service. 

Cost  of  Operating  a  Cafeteria 

The  first  business  problem  is  the  amount  of  rent  which 
can  be  afforded,  a  question  dependent  on  possible  average 
food  checks  and  anticipated  volume  of  business.  Three  to 
five  per  cent  of  gross  receipts  may  be  allowed  for  this  item. 
A  conservative  estimate  of  receipts  should  be  made  to  de- 
termine this.  The  second  problem  is  the  purchase  of  equip- 
ment. In  consultation  with  equipment  firms,  lists  should  be 
made  and  estimates  of  cost  secured  and  compared,  before 
placing  orders. 

Business  Equipment 

Equipment  for  the  transaction  of  business  is  as  follows : 

Standard  duplicate  order  book 

Bill  and  invoice  file 

Stock  and  issue  cards 

Requisition  slips 

Columnar  record  book,  for  attendance,  receipts,  expenses 

Employees'  record  book,  $2.50 

Clarenback's   Inventory   Book  and   Stock  Record,  $2.50 

A  number  of  these  supplies  can  be  obtained  from  John 
Willy,  Hotel  Monthly,  Chicago. 

Checks  should  be  issued  from  a  check  register  (National 
Cash  Register)  tjie  newest  variety  of  which  issues  an 
itemized  check  with  added  total  amount.  The  record  of 
checks  issued  and  their  value  in  money  should  be  compared 
with  number  of  checks  received  and  cash  received  by  cashier 
after  each  meal. 


268 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Store  Room  Management 

The  store  room  should  be  in  charge  of  one  person  only. 
The  buyer  should  give  the  store-room  keeper,  who  also 
receives  goods,  a  daily  list  of  all  purchases  that  they  may 
be  checked  up  accurately  as  they  come  in.  Every  purchase 
with  Date,  Rec'd  from,  Quantity,  Unit  of  Cost,  and  Total 
Cost,  should  be  entered  on  cards  or  in  a  record  book,  having 
a  separate  card  or  page  for  every  kind  of  food  stuffs. 

Requisitions  giving  a  list  of  materials  which  will  be 
required  the  following  day  should  be  made  out  daily  and 
signed  by  the  head  of  each  department,  as  the  head  cook, 
salad  maker,  coffee  woman,  pastry  cook,  head  waitress, 
head  cleaner,  etc.  These  should  be  given  to  the  person  in 
charge  of  the  store  room  each  evening.  Goods  from  the 
store  room  should  be  issued  each  morning,  from  these 
written  requisitions.  These  requisitions  should  later  be 
totalled  and  entered  each  on  its  individual  card.  Cards  may 
be  made  out  as  follows.  Note  that  twice  as  much  space 
is  allowed  for  foods  delivered  as  foods  received. 


RECEIVED 

DELIVERED 

DELIVERED 

Date 

Rec'd 
from 

Quan- 
tity 

Unit 
of  Cost 

Total 
Cost 

Date 

Quan- 
tity 

Cost 

Bal- 
ance 

Date' 

Quan- 
tity 

iCost 

Bal- 
ance 

CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  269 

The  Perpetual  Inventory 

Balance  in  the  last  column  is  a  record  of  stock  on  hand 
daily.  This  is  obtained  by  deducting  food  issued  from 
previous  balance  (on  hand).  This  is  called  keeping  a  Per- 
petual Inventory.  The  perpetual  inventory  makes  it  un- 
necessary to  take  a  monthly  inventory,  although  it  may  be 
wise  to  check  up  the  supplies,  actually  on  hand  at  the  end 
of  each  month,  with  the  supplies  as  recorded  on  the  cards, 
if  there  seems  to  be  any  question  about  their  agreeing. 
An  inventory  is  necessary  for  taking  off  the  monthly  trial 
balance  and  determining  profit  and  loss. 

The  cards  are  also  of  great  assistance  in  making  out  daily, 
weekly,  or  monthly  orders  for  food  stuffs.  They  are  used 
for  making  the  daily  comparison  of  food  stuffs  issued,  with 
dishes  sold  as  indicated  on  the  checks.  This  comparison  will 
show  whether  the  foods  are  being  sold  to  good  advantage 
or  not.  Waste  or  theft  in  the  kitchen  or  dining  room  can 
be  quickly  detected.  For  example ;  i  lb.  of  coffee  makes  50 
cups.  If  4  lbs.  of  coffee  were  issued,  more  than  150  cups 
should  appear  on  the  sales  checks.  Canned  goods,  fresh 
and  dried  fruits,  sugar  used  in  desserts  and  on  the  tables, 
can  be  easily  checked  up  from  these  Perpetual  Inventory 
cards. 

The  Par  Stock  System 

Sometimes  a  ''par  stock"  is  maintained  in  the  kitchen  of 
large  establishments,  i.  e.,  so  many  pounds  of  flour,  meal, 
sugar,  potatoes,  butter,  etc. ;  so  many  cans  of  fruit,  packages 
of  cereal,  etc.;  sufficient  for  a  little  more  than  one  day. 
At  the  end  of  the  day  requisitions  are  made  out  on  the  stock 
room  to  bring  the  kitchen  stock  "up  to  par."  This  order 
shows  exactly  what  materials  have  been  used  during  the 
day,  which  with  overhead,  gives  cost  and  compared  to  re- 
ceipts, the  daily  profit. 


270  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

The  Record  Book 

The  columnar  record  book  should  have  headings  of  at- 
tendance, noon,  night,  etc.,  with  similar  headings  for  re- 
ceipts and  expenditures.  Food,  wages  and  salaries,  rent, 
repairs,  replacement  and  other  expenses  should  all  be  listed. 
More  expense  headings  may  be  used  if  desirable. 

A  daily  overhead  expense  estimate  may  be  determined 
by  dividing  monthly  overhead  expense  of  a  past  month  by  the 
number  of  operating  days  in  a  given  month.  The  addition 
of  this  daily  overhead  estimate  to  actual  expense  for  fresh 
supplies  used  and  for  store-room  requisitions  will  give  the 
total  expense  of  operation  for  one  day.  This  amount  sub- 
tracted from  receipts  for  the  day  will  give  daily  profit  or 
daily  loss. 

A  good  business  manager  ascertains  and  records  this 
financial  standing  each  day. 

A  fair  percentage  of  monthly  expenditure  for  commer- 
cial cafeterias  has  been  found  to  be 

Food    ^ 55%  or  50% 

Salaries  and  Wages   25%        25% 

Rent   3%  or    5% 

Repairs  and  replacement  2%  2% 

Other   Expense    5%  5% 

Profit   10%  or  13% 

Total    100%      100% 

Ten  per  cent  of  gross  receipts  seems  to  be  universally 
considered  a  good  profit.  Other  percentages  will  vary  with 
localities.  A  good  business  will  repay  the  original  invest- 
ment the  first  year. 

Usually  an  attendance  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  daily  with 
an  average  check  of  forty  cents  is  considered  necessary  for 
a  profitable  business  but  some  successes  have  been  made 
with  smaller  numbers. 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  271 
Lunch  Rooms 

A  lunch  room  or  restaurant  differs  from  a  cafeteria  in 
that  the  patron  orders  from  a  menu  card  or  displayed 
menu,  and  food  is  brought  from  steam  table,  coffee  urns, 
salad  and  dessert  counters  by  waiters  or  waitresses.  Prices 
are  usually  a  little  higher  than  in  a  cafeteria,  to  pay  for  this 
service,  which  will  average  about  lo  cents  a  person  served. 
Some  lunch  rooms  are  open  24  hours  a  day — never  closed. 

The  preparation  of  foods,  and  number  of  employees  in 
the  kitchen  differs  but  slightly,  if  at  all,  from  that  of  cafe- 
terias. The  arrangement  of  steam-table,  salad  tray,  coffee 
urn  and  ice  cream  containers  is  similar  except  that  they 
are  all  placed  on  the  kitchen  side  of  the  partition  which 
separates  the  kitchen  from  the  dining  room,  with  a  shelf 
in  front  of  them  and  an  opening  over  them  where  the 
waitresses  can  give  and  receive  their  orders.  All  the  cold 
dishes  as  salads  and  desserts  may  be  grouped  together.  Tray 
and  traffic  rails,  of  course,  are  not  necessary.  It  is  a  con- 
venient and  attractive  arrangement  to  have  built-in  screens 
in  front  of  the  kitchen  partition  and  about  three  feet  from 
it.  On  the  kitchen  side  of  this  screen  may  be  kept  bread 
boxes  on  shelves  at  a  convenient  height  filled  with  sliced 
bread  in  vertical  piles,  pans  of  iced  butter  cut  for  serving,  and 
bread  and  butter  plates.  In  this  way  one  of  the  most  fre- 
quently served  foods  is  entirely  eliminated  from  the  kitchen 
service.  The  front  of  these  screens  may  be  fitted  with  large 
mirrors  which  give  the  impression  of  a  larger  dining  room 
and  more  space.  It  is  essential  to  have  the  window  where 
the  used  dishes  are  left,  at  the  extreme  end  of  the  room  oppo- 
site from  the  serving  tables.  An  electric  dish  washer  is 
desirable  where  more  than  150  people  are  fed  daily. 

Requisites  for  a  successful  lunch  room  are: 

Location — ^Where    there    is    much    passing — from    3%    to    15%    of 
passersby  should  come  in. 


272  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Appearance — White  tiling,  and  nickel  finish  have  a  strong  appeal. 

Cleanliness — Apparent  and  genuine.  In  high-class  restaurants, 
every  part  of  the  kitchen  and  dining  room,  walls,  floors,  shelves, 
and  equipment  are  cleaned  and  polished  daily. 

Fresh  Air — Electric  fans  or  other  means  of  ventilation  to  keep 
the  air  fresh  and  free  from  odors. 

Equipment  and  Furnishings — Arranged  to  give  efficient  and  rapid 
service.  Chairs  may  be  filled  four  times  an  hour  during  the 
noon  rush.  The  kitchen  need  not  be  large,  but  should  have 
room  for  and  a  special  place  for  everything  needed.  There 
should  be  sufficient  help  to  keep  it  always  in  perfect  order. 

Management — Aiming  to  please  and  with  constant  oversight  to 
detect  leaks  and  improve  conditions;  familiarity  with  every 
smallest  detail  of  the  business ;  knowledge  of  markets  and  knowl- 
edge of  human  nature  are  desirable. 

Courtesy — Necessary  on  the  part  of  every  employee  toward  patrons 
and  toward  one  another. 

Good  Food — Of  high  quality  with  home-cooked  flavor;  carefully- 
tested  recipes,  followed  accurately;  dishes  giving  maximum 
food  value  and  satisfaction  for  smallest  expense. 

Rules — For  portioning  all  food — by  weight  (for  meat)  measure  or 
thickness,  according  to  the  dish  served. 

Menus — For  plate  dinners,  vegetarian  lunches  and  inexpensive 
meals,  arranged  with  a  knowledge  of  food  values  and  dietetics 
and  costs,  so  that  patrons  may  be  able  to  get  what  they  should 
have  at  a  reasonable  price. 

Vegetables — Properly  cooked  and  well-seasoned;  served  with  a 
poached  egg  they  make  a  meal  that  is  inexpensive  and  attractive 
to  many  people  and  oftentimes  difficult  to  find. 

Ready-To-Eat-Dishes— Essential    in    a    lunch    room    that    caters 
to  business  people  who  want  to  be  served  at  about  the  same 
hour — from  12  to  2  or  5  to  7  o'clock. 
For  example: 
Soups 
Stews 

Scalloped  dishes 
Casserole  dishes 
Vegetables 
Sandwich  fillings— which  can  be  mixed  beforehand  to  be  made 

up  to  order 
Salad   materials— which    can   be    prepared    for    serving    and    will 
keep  without  being  "dressed,"  and  so  can  be  utilized  the  follow- 
ing day,  if  not  sold. 
Gelatine,  Cornstarch,  or  other  Molded  Deserts. 
Pies 
Ice  Cream 

Coffee — This  must  be  beyond  criticism. 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  273 

The  manager  of  a  chain  of  restaurants  states  that  20% 
of  their  receipts  come  from  coffee.  For  each  one  hundred 
dollars  taken  in  is  served : 

Coffee   $20.00 

Griddle  products   16.50 

Hot  dishes  ready  to  serve 13.00 

Desserts     12.00 

Egg  dishes 9.50 

Special   dishes    5.70 

Bread,   etc 5-40 

Sandwiches     4.25 

Oysters   3.50 

Soups    2.75 

Cereals    2.65 

Hot  dishes  to  order 2.35 

Vegetables    1.50 

Salads,   cold   dishes,   misc 90 

$100.00 
Cost  of  Recipes  and  Portions 

The  cost  of  every  recipe  used  should  be  accurately  worked 
out,  and  the  cost  of  individual  portions  of  each  dish  that 
is  listed  on  your  bill  of  fare  should  be  known,  in  order  that 
prices  may  be  intelligently  made.  If  lunches  at  30c,  35c, 
40c,  60c,  etc.,  are  served,  the  per  capita  overhead  cost  and 
the  expected  profit  per  person  should  first  be  subtracted  from 
the  proposed  special  lunch  price.  The  cost  of  bread  and 
butter  and  coffee  may  be  taken  out;  the  remainder  may  be 
used  for  the  special  dishes.  For  regular  customers  the  cost 
may  vary  slightly  from  day  to  day. 

Recipes  for  serving  a  large  number  of  people  are  written 
by  accurately  increasing  the  amounts  of  each  ingredient  in  a 
family  recipe,  as  explained  on  pages  50  and  51. 

The  checks  received  for  food  each  day  should  be  analyzed 
in  order  that  the  manager  may  know  what  kinds  of  foods 
are  most  popular,  which  pay  the  best,  and  which  are  losing 
money. 

Dishes  that  must  be  sold  at  a  loss  should  not  often  be  put 
on  a  bill  of  fare.    Those  that  are  not  profitable  should  be 


274 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


taken  off.  Low-priced  nutritious  attractive  dishes  should  be 
featured.  A  daily  comparison  of  food  issued,  and  food  sold 
should  be  made,  to  show  you  each  day  just  where  you 
stand — whether  you  are  making  or  losing  money.  This  can 
be  known  only  by  the  most  careful  attention  to  details,  the 
most  accurate  knowledge  of  costs  and  income. 

The  following  menus  have  been  used  in  a  lunch  room 
managed  by  a  woman,  where  1,500  people  are  fed  daily : 

April 


Chicken   Soup,   Rice 25 

Escalloped  Chicken  and 

Macaroni   30 

Creamed  Cod  Fish,  Potato . .  .30 
Hot   Corned  Beef,   Cabbage, 

Potato    35 

Baked   Sausage,   Potato 35 

Hashed  Brown  Potato, 

Bacon   30 

Tomato  Rarebit    25 

Hashed  Brown  Potato,  Tur- 
nip, Cabbage 25 

Rice    Custard    Pudding 10 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding...  .10 

Caramel    Nut   Tapioca 10 

Pineapple  Whip 10 

Charlotte   Cream   Pie 15 


Russian    Sandwich    15 

Macaroni    and    Cheese 10 

Buttered  Cabbage 10 

Mashed  Turnip 10 

Creamed  Carrots  and  Peas.     .10 
Bread    served    with    vege- 
tables .05  extra. 

Potato  and  Egg  Salad 25 

Fruit  Salad    25 

Cherry  and  Pineapple  Short- 
cake  15 

Grape  Fruit  Cocktail    10 

Loganberry     Jelly,     Custard 

Sauce    10 

Vanilla  and   Strawberry  Ice 

Cream    05-.10 

Orange    Cream    Pie 15 


October 


Oyster  Stew    30 

Baked  Haddock  a  la  Rarebit  .30 
Spiced  Mackerel,  Hashed 

Brown  Potato 30 

Chicken  Stew,  Dumpling. . .  .40 
Hot  Roast  Lamb  Sandwich. .  .35 
Fried  Liver,  Bacon,  Potato.  .30 

Baked  Peas,  Corn  Cake 25 

Sweet  Potato  (Southern), 

Bacon     30 

Boiled  Onions  in  Cream 10 


Cocoanut  Bread  Pudding 10 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding 10 

Chocolate  Walnut   Pudding.  .10 

Coffee  Spanish  Cream 10 

Hermits  or  Cookies   (2) 05 

Squash  Pie  15 

Macaroni    and    Tomato 10 

Squash   10 

Mashed  Turnip,  Potato 10 

Cheese  and  Apple  Jelly 
Sandwich     20 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT  275 

Stewed  Corn  and  Lima  Lady  Baltimore  Cake lo 

Beans    lo      Bananas  and  Cream lo 

Bread    served    with    vege-  Prune     Sauce,     Whipped 

tables  .05  extra.  Cream    10 

Date,  Cheese  and  Nut  Salad.  .30       Frozen  Pudding  05  &  .10 

Vegetable  Salad   30       Vanilla  Ice  Cream 05  &  .10 

Loganberry  Shortcake 15 

Preparation  for  Management 

Training  in  a  home  economics  is  the  best  fundamental 
preparation  for  cafeteria  or  lunch  room  management.  This 
should  if  possible  be  followed  by  one  year's  experience  as 
an  employee  in  some  well  run  cafeteria. 

The  woman  without  complete  technical  training,  but  with 
a  good  knowledge  of  food  and  cookery  and  some  experi- 
ence in  catering  to  the  public  taste  should  spend  at  least 
three  months  as  a  worker  in  a  well-run  establishment  and 
become  familiar  with  equipment  and  methods  of  operation 
before  opening  a  place  of  her  own.  To  one  who  understands 
the  business,  the  machinery  of  operation  is  simple.  The 
cafeteria  is  a  democratic  method  of  public  feeding.  Excel- 
lent food,  courteous  service,  absolute  cleanliness  of  sur- 
roundings together  with  attractiveness  are  sign  posts  of  suc- 
cess. Above  all  the  home-cooked  "come  again"  flavor  of 
the  food  served  must  be  maintained. 

In  Conclusion 

Food  service  outside  the  home  is  one  of  our  country's 
largest  and  most  essential  industries.  It  is  estimated  that 
over  nine  million  people  eat  daily  in  lunch  rooms,  cafeterias 
and  restaurants.  Many  millions  of  dollars  are  invested  in 
these  enterprises  and  the  business  has  been  highly  developed. 
Apparently  the  demand  is  well  supplied,  but  there  are  hun- 
dreds and  thousands  of  eating  places  where  the  food  service 
is  bad,  very  bad.    There  is  a  wide  field  for  expert  cooking 


276  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

and  service — food  with  the  home  flavor  will  find  demand 
and,  with  good  management,  the  business  will  give  handsome 
profits. 

Beginning  with  the  sale  of  home-cooked  food,  specialties 
and  home-made  candy,  through  catering  in  all  its  many- 
branches,  to  guest  house,  tea  room,  cafeteria  and  lunch  room 
management,  there  is  a  splendid  opportunity  for  professional 
food  service — Cooking  for  Profit. 

It  is  the  hope  of  the  author  that  these  lessons  may  serve 
as  a  guide,  point  the  way,  give  courage  and  inspiration  to 
many  women  to  push  ahead  into  creative  work  which  will 
increase  their  value  to  the  world  and  to  themselves. 

QUESTIONS  ON  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

XII 

Cafeteria  and  Lunch  Room  Management 

1.  What  would  be  the  cost  in  your  locality  of  trays,  silver 

and  glass  listed  in  this  lesson,  page  265? 

2.  Make  out  one  day's  menu  which  could  be  served  in  a 

cafeteria. 

3.  List  cost  of  each  dish  per  person  and  usual  selling  price 

of  above  menu. 

4.  Using  the  figures  of  250  daily  with  an  average  check 

of  40  cents  how  much  would  you  have  daily  for 
overhead  expenses? 

5.  Figure  out  your  profit  for  one  year,  one  month,  one 

day  according  to  per  cent  given  on  page  270. 

6.  How  much  could  your  payroll  be  for  one  week,  your 

rent  for  one  month  ? 

7.  From  suggestions  given  in  this  lesson,  draw  a  floor  plan 

of  cafeteria  and  dining  room  as  you  would  like  to 
have  it. 


CAFETERIA  AND  LUNCH  ROOM  MANAGEMENT   277 

REFERENCE  BOOKS 

Equipment  for  Cafeterias,  Lunch  Rooms,  Restaurants  and  Dining 

Rooms  (illustrated).    Published  by  Albert  Pick  &  Co.,  Chicago. 
The  Lunch  Room,  by  Paul  Richards,  $2.50 
The  Lunch  Room  as  a  Money  Maker,  by  C.  A.  Patterson,  $2.00 
Institution  Recipes,  by  Emma  Smedley,  $3.00 
Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty,  by  Frances  L.  Smith,  $2.00 
Paul  Richards'  Pastry  Book,  $2.50 

Hotel  St.  Francis  Cook  Book,  by  Victor  Hirtzler,  $5.00 
Selection  of  Dishes  and  a  Chef's  Reminder,  by  Charles  Fellows, 

$1.25 
A  Culinary  Handbook,  by  Charles  Fellows,  $2.50 
The  Hotel  Butcher,  Garde  Manger  and  Carver,  by  Frank  Rivers, 

$2.50 
Vachon's  Economical  Soups  and  Entrees,  $1.25 
Cafeteria  Standards  and  Methods  of  Obtaining  Them,  by  Treat 

and   Richards,   Bulletin   44,    Extension   Division,   University   of 

Minnesota,  St.  Paul 
Present  Day  Cafeterias,  by  Gilbert  Cowan,  in  Hotel  Monthly,  Sept., 

1919 
Cafeteria  Records,  by  Elizabeth  Anselm,  Y.  M.  C.  A.,  in  Hotel 

Monthly,  Nov.,  1921 
Any  of  the  above  books  and  all  others  listed  in  these  lessons  may 

be  ordered  of  the  Am.  School  of  Home  Economics,  Chicago. 

Magazines 

The  Journal  of  Home  Economics,  Baltimore,  Md.,  $2.50  a  year 
American  Cookery,  Boston,  Mass.,  $1.50  per  year 
Hotel  Monthly,  Chicago,  111.,  $1.00  per  year 
American  Restaurant,  Chicago,  111.,  $2.00  per  year. 
Plant-Restaurant    Management,    Chicago,    111.,   $2.50    per   year 
The  Caterer,  New  York  City,  $2.00  per  year 


278  COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 

Bulletins,  Free  from  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

• 
No.     142  Nutrition  and  Nutritive  Value  of  Food 
No.    256  Preparation  of  Vegetables  for  the  Table 
No.    275  Care  of  Food  in  the  Home 
No.    391  Economical  Use  of  Meat  in  the  Home 
No.    535  Sugar  and  its  Value  as  Food 
No.    712  School  Lunches 

No.    771  Homemade  Fireless  Cookers  and  Their  Use 
No.    808  How  to  Select  Foods :  I,  What  the  Body  Needs 
No.    817  How  to  Select  Foods :  11,  Cereal  Foods 
No.    824  How  to  Select  Foods :  HI,  Foods  Rich  in  Protein 
No.    851  The  House  Fly 
No.    879  Home  Storage  of  Vegetables 
No.    927  Farm  Home  Conveniences 
No.  1099  Home  Laundry 
No.  1 109  Preserving  Eggs 
No.  1 136  Baking  in  the  Home 
No.  1 180  House  Qeaning  Made  Easier 
No.  1228  A  Week's  Food  for  an  Average  Family 
Bulletin  No.  28,  Composition  of  American  Food  Materials    (sent 

for  10  cents    (coin)    from  Supt.  of  Documents,  Washington, 

D.  C.) 


INDEX 


Account,  Stock,  35,  195,  269 
Accounting-,  Cafeteria,   267 

Guest  House,  197 

Tea  Room,   213 

With   Check   Book,   36 
Advertising,    Cakes,    57 

Catering,   131 

Tea  Room,  230 
Afternoon  Teas,  103 

Cost  of,  127 

Menus,  123 
Alligator  Pears,  140 
Amount    of    Food    for    Banquet, 

171 
Amounts  to  Serve,  98 
Angrel  Cake,  68 
Apple  Boats,  47 
Apple  Cocktail,  137 
Apples,   Preparing,    140 
Apricot  Tarts,  47 
Aspics,  115 
Assorted  Caramels,   89 

Bacon  and  Cheese  Toast,  245 

Baking  Cake,  61 
Baking:  Powder  Biscuits,  246 
Balanced   Menus,    183 
Banana  Sandwich,  240 
Banquet   Menus,    174 

Service,    160 
Bars,  Walnut,  70 
Basic   Portions,    98 
Baskets,  Marmalade,  47 
Bavarian  Cream,  117 
Belmont  French  Dressing:,  170 
Berries,    Service    of,    99 
Best  Erer  Doughnuts,  42 
Beverages    for    Afternoon    Tea, 
103 

Tea  Room,   236 
Birthday  Parties,  Menus,  153 
Biscuits,   30 
Biscuits  and  Rolls,   30 

Baking  Powder,  246 
Bisque  Ice  Cream,   118 
Boats,  Apple,   47 
Boiled  Coffee  for  50,  106 

Frosting,  72 

Frosting  with  Ellectric  Beater, 
72 
Bombes,  119 
Bonbons,  87 

Boston  Favorite  Cake,  66 
Bouillon,  Quantity  for  50.  99 
BouUIons,  141 
Box   Lunches,    218 
Bran  Bread,  29 

Muffins,  32 


Bread,  27 

Bran,  29 

Cornmeal,   28 

Oatmeal,   28 

Orange,   27 

Orange  Peel,  28 

Prune,   28 

Puddings,  220 

Raisin,  29 

Raisin,  Katy's,    242 

Slicer,  264 

Quick  Hot,   246 

Tea  Room,   237 

Whole  W^heat   or  Graham,  27 

Winchester  Nut,  29 
Breakfast    Combinations,    52 

Menus,   186 

Planning,    184 

Wedding,    126 
Bride's    Cake,    67 
Brioche,  Coffee   Cake  I,  "31 
Brittles,   89 

Brown  Bread  Sandwich,  241 
Buffet    Spreads,    110 

Dishes   for,   113 

Prices   of,   124 

Menus,  125 
Business  Equipment,   Cafeteria, 
267 

Management,  Tea  Room,  231 
Butter  Cutter,  264 
Butterfly  Luncheon,  152 
Butterscotch,   90 
Butterscotch,  Cream  Balls,  91 

Sauce,  122 

Wafers,  90 
Buying,   34 

Candy  Supplies,  77 

Food    Supplies,    193 


Cafeteria     and     Lunch     Room 

Management,  257-278 
Cake,  Angel,   68 

Boston   Favorite,    66 

Bride's,    67 

Coffee,  I   (Brioche),  31 

Coffee,  II,   31 

Decorating,   63 

Fruit,  Light,  67 

Fudge,  68 

Layer  Marshmallow,  69 

Pound,  67 

Recipes,   66 

Sponge,  68 

Sunshine,  68 

Wedding  or  Fruit,  69 

AVhite,   67 


Note — Recipes    and    chapter    headings 
faced  type. 

279 


.re    given    in    heavy 


280 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Cakes  and  Cake  Makings,  55-74 

Baking,  61 

Decorating-,  63 

Frostings,   71 

Mixing,   61 

Prices   of,    58 

Profit   on,    57 

Selling,  56 
Cakes,  Cream,   50 

For  Tea  Rooms,   253 

Service  Portions  of,   99 

Stale,  Use  for,  253 
Calories  Required,   182 
Camp   Cookery,    220 
Camps,  Summer,  217 
Canapes,   162 
Candy   Making,   75-96 

Chocolate  Dipping,   92 

Equipment  for,  75 

Fondant,    83 

Marketing,    81 

Packing,  80 

Profit,    78 

Prices,  78 

Recipes,  85 

Thermometer,   77 
Canned  Foods,  17 
Canning,  20 

Capacity  of  Lunch  Room,  215 
Caramel  Frosting:,  73 
Caramels,   88 

Assorted,    89 
Card  Parties,   109 
Cards,  Recipe,  19 
Care  of  Steam  Table,   263 
Cassaba  Cocktail,  138 
Catering     for     Dinner     Parties, 

157-176 
Catering    for    Social    Occasions, 
97-130 

Afternoon  Tea,  103 

Buffet   Spreads,    110 

Equipment,  101 

Estimates,    100 

High  Teas,   109 

Menus,   123 

Sandwiches,  107 
Catering  for  Special  liuncheons 
and  Suppers,  131-155 

Advertising,  131 

Children's  Parties,  148 

Cocktails,   137 

Entries,    142 

Fish    Course,    142 

Meat   Course,   143 

Menus,   148 

Salads,  145 

Soups,   140 

Table   Decorating,   134 

Vegetables,    144 
Cereal  Puddings,  221 
Charlotte   Russe,   117 
Cheese  and  Bacon  Toast,  245 

and   Date   Sandwich,  Toasted, 
244 

Sandwiches,   Hot,   243 
Cherry    Cocktail,    138 
Chicken    Salad,    100,    249 

Sandwiches,    Hot,    246 


Chiffonade  Dressing,  169 

Children's   Parties,   147 
Chocolate,  106 

Cups  in  Gallon,   99 

Frosting,  72 

Frosting,  Japanese,  72 

Fudge,   84 

Hot,   236 

Mexican,  106 

Milk  Shake,  237 

Peppermint  Sundae,  255 

Syrup,  236 
Choux  Paste,  43 
Christmas  Luncheon,  151 
Chutney    Dressing,    169 
Cinnamon   Toast,    238 
Club    Sandwich,    245 
Cocktail  Sauce,   163 
Cocktails,  Fruit,  137,  138,  139 
Cocoa,   106 
Coffee,  Boiled,  for  50,  106 

Cake    (Brioche),   31 

Cream  Cake  Filling,   50 

Filtered,   1   Gal.,   105 

for    Cafeteria,    250 

for  Tea  Room,   236 

Frosting,   73 

Receipts  from,  273 

Urn,   262 
Cold  Pack  Canning,  20 
Community  Centers,  213 

Kitchens,    210 

Tea  Room,  Cost   of  Running, 
213 
Company  Dinner  Menus,  175 
Conserves,   21 

Fruit,   21 
Consignments  for  Food  Shop,  41 
Consignors,   40 
Contrast  and  Harmony  in  Meals, 

192 
Cooked  Food,  Marketing  of,  9 

Sale  of,   3 
Cookies,    44 

for  Teas,    109 
Cooking  as  a  Profession,  3-16 
Cooking  for  the  Food  Shop,  39- 

54 
Cook's  Menu  Book,  193 
Cornmeal  Bread,   28 
Cornstarch   Desserts,    223 
Corn   Syrup,    77 
Cost,  of  Afternoon  Tea,   127 

of  Board,   200 

of   BufCet  Service,   124 

of   Cakes,   68 

of  Candy,   79 

of  Dinner  or  Banquet,  172 

of   Marmalade,   19 

of  Meals  in  Guest  House,  198 

of  Operation,  Cafeteria,  167 

of  Pies,   48 

of  Running  Hotel,  199 

of  Renting  Rooms,  201 

of  School  Lunches,  206 

of  Tea  Room  Equipment,  232 

of    Selling,    18 

of  Serving  Equipment,  101 


INDEX 


281 


Costs,  Overhead,  How  to  Figure, 

11,    197 
Cottag^e  Pudding^s,   221 
Counters,  Cafeteria,  259 
Courses  in   Formal   Dinner,  160 
Cream  Cake  Filling,  50 

Cakes,  50 

Cakes  and  Eclairs,  43 

Butterscotch  Balls,  91 
Creamed  Dishes  for  Tea  Rooms, 

252 
Cream  Filling  for  Creami  Cakes, 
51 

Horns,   47 

Mints,  86 

Soups,  141 
Croquettes,  113 

for  Fifty,  99 

Mushroom,  165 
Crullers,  42 

Crystal  Syrup  for  Candies,  87 
Custard  Desserts,  223 

Date  and  Cheese   Sandwich,  244 

Decorations,    Cake,    63 

for  Finger  Bowls,   147 

Table,  128,  134,  158 

Tea  Room,   228 
Delicatessen  Shops,   51 
Delivering  Cakes,    66 

Hot  Meals,  211 
Depreciation,  37 
Desserts  at  Banquets,  170 

for  Luncheons,   146 

for  Lunchrooms,  221 

Frozen,  117 
Dinner  Combinations,  53 
Dinner,    Formal,    160 

Menus,  190 

Planning,   185 

Salads,  168 
Dipping   Bonbons,    87 

Chocolates.    92 
Dish  Warmer,  261 
Dish  Washers,  264 
Doughnuts,   42 
Doughnuts,  Best  Ever,  42 
Dressings,    Salad,    25 

Easter  Luncheon,   150 
Eclairs  and  Cream  Cakes,  43 
Fclairs,  Luxury,  255 

Salad,    SandvFich,   241 
Fgomato    Toast    Sandwich,    244 
Electric    Equipment,    15 
Employees  for   Cafeteria,   266 

for   Catering,    102 

for  Guest   House,    201 

for  Lunch  Room,   271 

for  Tea  Room,  230 
English      Muffin,      Hot      Cheese 

Sandwich,   243 
English  Muffin  Sandwich,  242 
English  Muffins.  242 
Enlarging  Candy  Recipes,   83 

Recipes,    50 
Entertainment     for     Children's 
Parties,  148 


Entries  at  Formal  Dinners,  165 

Luncheon,   142 
Equipment,  Business  Cafeteria, 
267 

for  Cafeterias,  258 

for  Candy  Making,  75 

for  Community  Kitchen,  211 

for   Catering,    101 

for   Work    Shop,    13 

Industrial  Lunch  Room,  209 

Kitchen,    264 

Tea  Room,  232 
Estimates  for  Catering,  100 
Expense,  Overhead,   11,  197 
Expenses,  Cafeteria,  270 

Factory  Lunch   Rooms,   207 
Fancy  Molded  Desserts,   117 
Figuring  Costs,   11,   200 
Filene  Tarts,  47 
Filling,   Cream   Cake,    50 
Fillings  for  Sandwiches,   239 
Filtered   Coifee,    105 
Fish  at  Formal   Dinner,   164 

Course,  142 
Flavor  for  Rolls,  20 
Florentine    Sandwich,   244 
Fondant,    83 
Fondant,  White,   85 
Food    Shop,    Cooking    for,    39-54 

Locating,  39 

Good  Sellers  for,  41 
Food  Units,  182 

Values,  182 
Formal  Dinner  Menus,  173,  174 
Formal    Dinner    Service,    160 
Formal    Luncheon    Service,    158 
Fourth  of  July  Luncheon,  150 
Frappes,   118 

Quantity  for  50,  99 
Freezing  Ices,  etc.,   119 
French  Dressings,  168,  169,  170 

Marmalade  Sandwiches,  246 

Pastries,  41 

Sandwiches,   Sweet,   241 

Toast  Sandwich,  246 
Fritters,  List  of,   222 
Frosting,   Boiled,   72 

Caramel,  73 

Chocolate,   72 

Coffee,  73 

Fudge,  73 

Japanese,  71 

Japanese  Chocolate,  72 

Maple,  72 

Marshmallow^,   72 

Pink,    73 
Frostings,   65,   71 
Frozen   Desserts,   117 

Fruit   Salad,   116 

Salads,   114 
Fruit  Cake,  69 
Fruit  Cake,  Light,   67 
Fruit,   Canning.    20 

Cocktails,   137,   138,   139 

Conserve,    21 

Courses  for  Luncheon,  136 

Courses,  Preparation,  139 

Cup,  138 


282 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Fruit   Juices,   Canning,    23 

or  Nut  Frosting,  72 

Punch,  for  sixty,  99 

Salad,  249 

Salad,  Frozen,  116 

Salad  Sandwich,  240 
Fudge,  83 

Cake,    68 

Chocolate,   84 

Combinations,   84 

Frosting,  73 

MarshmallofV  Sundae,  255 

Opera,  85 

Opera  Variations,  85 

Sauce  with  Ice  Cream   Short- 
cake, 254 

Squares,  70 
Furnishing  Tea  Rooms,  228 
Furniture,   Cafeteria,    265 


Garnish  for  Sandwiches,  238 

Garnishing,  121 

Gateau,  Petite,  47 

Gingerbread  Desserts,  222 

Glac6,   Meringue,   255 

Glucose,    77 

Goblets,  Dinner,   159 

Graham  or  Whole  Wheat  Bread, 
27 

Grapefruit       and      Strawberry- 
Cocktail,   137,   138 

Grapefruit  Cocktails,  137 
Marmalade,  19 
Preparing,  139 

Griddle  Cakes  and  Waffles,   247 

Griddle     Cakes     with     Maple 
Cream,  247 

Guest  House  Management,  177- 
204 


Hallowe'en   Parties,    151 

Hamburger      Sandw^iches,      Hot, 
246 

Harmony  and  Contrast  in  Meals, 
192 

Healthful   Diet,   183 

Help  for  Cafeteria,  266 
for  Catering,  102 
for  Community  Kitchen,  211 
Kitchen.   201 

Hermits  Tvith  Cake  Crumbs,   71 

High  Teas,  109 

Homes  and  Camps,  179 

Honey,  Orange,  240 

Horns,  Cream,  47 

Hors   D'Oeuvres,  164 

Hostess,  Tea  Room,  229 

Hot  Cheese  Sandwiches,  243 
Chicken  Sandwich,  246 
Dishes  for  Tea  Rooms,  251 
Hamburger   Sandwich,   246 
Roast  Beef  Sandwich,  246 

Hotel   Business,    179 

Hotel,  Cost  of  Running,  199 
Meals,   180 
Positions,   203 


How  Much  to  Serve, 
to  Buy,  34,  193 
to  Plan  Meals,  181 

Hub  Sandwich,  241 


214 


Ice  Cream,  118 

for  Tea  Room,  254 

Sauces,  122 

Shortcake    with    Butterscotch 
Sauce,  254 

Shortcake  with  Fresh  Straw- 
berries, 254 

Shortcake  with  Fudge  Sauce, 
254 

Standard  Portions  of,  99 
Iced  Tea,  105 

Income  of  Restaurants,  273 
Increasing   Recipes,    50 
Indian   Dressing,   169 
Informal  Dinner  Menus,  173 
Institution  Meals,  179 
Interstate  Sales,  20 
Inventory,  36 

Perpetual,    269 

Japanese,     Chocolate     Frosting, 

72 
Frosting,   71 

Jellied  Desserts,  223 
Jellies,  23 

Popular,  24 

Standardizing,    25 
Jelly  Glasses,   Filling,   24 
Jonquil  Luncheon,  153 

Kindergarten  Sandwiches,  241 

Kitchen  Equipment,   13,  264 
Equipment,  for  Guest  House, 

196 
Help,  201 

Kitchens,  Community,  210 
Traveling,    214 

Labeling  Preserves,    21 
licaves.  Palm,  47 
Left-Overs,  187 

Disposal    of,    215 
Lemonade,    Quantity   for   50,    99 
Lobster   Salad,    249 
Location  for  Food  Shop,  39 

of  Tea  Room,  226 
I.olly  Pops,    91 
Lunch      Room      and      Cafeteria 

Management.   257-278 
Lunch  Rooms,  271 

School,   206 

Store  and  Factory,  208 
Luncheonettes,   210 
Luncheon  Menus,  135,  149,  187 

or  Supper  Planning,  168 
Lunches,  Packing,   219 
liuxury    Fclairs,    255 

Macaroons,  70 
Mallows,  Scotch,  91 

Management    of    Store    Rooms, 
268 
of  Tea  Room,  225-256 
Manager,   Tea  Room,   229 


INDEX 


283 


Maple      Cream      with      Griddle 
Cakes,   247 

Frosting,  72 
Margarine  in  Cakes,  60 
Marketing  Candy,  81 

Specialties,  9 
Market,  Packing  for,   22 
Marlowe  Tarts,  46 
Marmalade  Baskets,    47 
Marmalade,    Grapefruit,    19 
Marmalades,  23 
Marshmallow  Frosting^,  72 

Fudge   Sundae,   255 

Layer    Cake,    69 

Roll,    69 

Tarts,   46 
Martinique      French      Dressing, 

169 
Mayonnaise,    26 
Meal  Planning,  181 
Meat   Accompaniments,    167 

Cooked,  Cost  of,  33 

Course  at  Formal  Dinner,  166 

Portions  to  Serve,  99 
Meats  for  Luncheons,  143 
Menu  Book,  189 

Book,   the   Cook's,   193 

Lists,   188 
Menus,  Banquet,  174 

Breakfast,  186 

Cafeteria,   266 

Company  Dinner,  175 

Dinner,  187 

for  Afternoon  Tea.  123. 

for  Birthday  Parties,   153 

for  Buffet  Service,  125 

for  Evening  Receptions,  126 

for  Formal    Tea,    124 

for  Wedding    Receptions,    126 

Formal    Dinner,    173 

Informal   Dinner,   173 

Luncheon,  187 

Lunch  Room,   274 

School  Luncheon,  207 

Special   Occasions,  148 

Tea  Room,   235 

Thanksgiving  Dinner,  175 
Meringue  Glac^,  255 
Mexican   Chocolate,   106 
Milk    Shake.   Chocolate,    237 
Mints,   Cream,   86 
Mixing  Cake,  61 
Molded  Ice  Creams,  120 
Mosaic  Sandwiches,  108 
Mousses,   118 
Muflins,  Bran,  32 

English,  242 

E^nglKsh,    Sandwich,    242 
Mushroom    Croquettes,   165 

Sandwich,   Toasted,   245 

Names  of  G^iest  House,  178 

of  Tea  Rooms,  227 
Nougatines,   92 
Nut   Bread,   Winchester.    29 
Nut  and  Fruit  Sauce,  122 

Bread   Sandwich,   241 

Brittles,   89 

or  Fruit  Frosting,  72 


Nuts,   Salted,   94 
Spiced,  94 

Oatmeal   Bread,   28 

Oils,    Salad,   25 
Olives  in  a  Pint,  99 
Opera  Fudge,  85 

Variations,    85 
Orange  Bread,   27 

Honey,  Sandwich,  240 

Peel  Bread,  28 
Oranges,   Preparing,   139 
Order  Book,  the,   195 
Oven    Thermometer,    62 
Overhead  Costs  in  Guest  House, 
197 

Expense,    11 

Expenses  in  Tea  Room,  233 
Oysters,   Serving,   163 

Standard  Portions  of,  99 

Packing  Candy,   80 

for   Market,   22 
Palm  Licaves,   47 
Paraffin  Paper,   81 
Parfaits,  118 

Parisian  French  Dressing,  169 
Par  Stock,  Kitchen,  269 
Parties,   Children's,   147 
Paste,   Pulf  Recipe,  26 

Quick    Plain,    45 

Turkish,  90 
Pastries,   French,    46 
Pastry,  43 

Sticks,  47 
Patties,  113 
Paying  Quantities,  48 
Peaches,  to  Prepare,   140 
Peanut   Brittle,   89 
Peanuts,  Sugared,  94 
Pectin,    23 

Perpetual  Inventory,  269 
Petite  Fours,   63 
Petite  Gateau,  47 
Pickle,   Saco,   25 
Pickles  and  Relishes,   25 
Pie,  Yellow  Layer,  66 
Pies,   Selling  Price  of,   45 
Pineapple   Cocktail,   138 
Pink  Frosting,  73 
Plan  Kitchen,  15 
Planked   Steak,   166 
Planning    Dinner    Menus,    190 

Meals,  181 

Menus  for  Lunch  Rooms,  220 
Plans,  Tea  Room,  232 
Popular  Cakes,  58 

Fudge  Combinations,  84 
Portions,   Basic,   98 
Porto  Rico  Dressing,  170 

Snnflwich,  244 
Potatoes  for  Luncheon,  144 
Pound   Cake,   67 
Powdered  Milk,    60 
Preserves,   21 
Prices  of  Cakes,  58 

of  Bread,   18 

of  Candies,    78 


284 


COOKING  FOR  PROFIT 


Price  of  Canned  Foods,  17 
in  Lunch  Rooms,   216 
in  School   Lunches,    207 
in  Tea   Rooms,   233 

Profitable    Openings,    3 

Profit,   Amount   of,    13 
in  Cafeterias,    270 
in  Candy  Making,   78 
in  Lunch    Rooms,    216 
Number  Required  for,   199 
Percentage  of,  10 
on   Cakes,    57 

Profits  in  Tea  Rooms,  231 

Prune   Bread,    28 

Pudding  Sauces,  222 

Puff   Paste,   46 

Puff   Paste   Recipe,   46 

Punch  for   Afternoon  Teas,   106 

Qualifications  for  Success,  5 
Quantities  that  Pay,  48 
Quick  Hot   Breads,   246 
Quick  Plain   Paste,    45 

Raised  Muffinis,   242 

Raisin   Bread,   29 

Raisin  Bread,  Katy's,  242 

Receptions,  Wedding,  112 
Recipe  Cards,  19 
Recipes,  Standardizing,  18 

Change   Small  to  Large,  49 
Record  Book,  Lunch  Room,  270 
Reference  Books,  27,   53,   73,  95, 
129,    155,    176,    204,    224,    256, 
277 
Relishes  and  Pickles,  25 
Renting  Rooms,  201 
Repairs,   36 

Reputation,  Establishing  a,  10 
Requisitions,   268 
Restaurants,  271 
Rhubarb  with   Preserves,   21 
Ribbon  Sandwiches,  108,  241 
Roast    Beef  Sandwich,  Hot,   246 
Rolled    Sandwiches,    240 
Roll,    Marshmallow,    69 
Rolls,  29 

and   Biscuits,   30 

Flavor  for,  30 
Roman  Grapefruit  Cocktail,  137 
Russian  Dressing:,  26 

French   Dressing,   170 

Table  Service,   158 

Saco  Pickle,  25 

Salad,  Chicken,   100,    249 

Combinations,   250 

Dressings,   25 

Fclair  Sandw^ich,  241 

Frozen  Fruit,  116 

liobster,  249 

Pan,  Cafeteria,  260 

Roll  Sandwich,  242 
Salads,  114 

Dinner,  168 

for  Luncheons,   145 

for  Tea  Rooms,   248 

Fruit,  249 
Sales,  Interstate,   20 


Salted  Nuts,  94 

Sandwich  Fillingrs,   107,   239 

Making,  238 

Recipes,    239 

Sandwiches,  33,  107,  240-246 

for  Teas,  107 

from  Loaf  of  Bread,  100 

Hot  Chicken,  246 

Hot  Roast   Beef,   246 

Ribbon,  108 

Mosaic,  108 

Tea  Room,  237 

Toasted,   243 
Sauces,   Pudding,    222 
Sauce  Tartare,  26 
Saving  Expense,   202 
Savory  French  Dressings,  169 
School    Lunches,    205-210 
School  Lunch  Menu,  207 
Scoop,   Ice   Cream,  119 
Scotch  Mallows,  91 
Squares,  91 
Selling  Cake,  56 

Cost  of,  18 
Seminole  Sandwich,  2.44 
Service,  Buffet,  110 

Formal,  158' 

in  Guest  House,  197 

in  Tea  Room,  230 
Serving  Counter,   Cafeteria,   259 
Sherbet,  Quantity  for  50,  99 
Sherbets,  118 
Shops,  Delicatessen,  51 
Short  Cakes,   Ice  Cream,  254 

List  of,  222 
Shortening  for  Rolls,  30 
Silver,    Cafeteria,  265 
Small  Cakes,   61,   63 
Soups   for    Afternoon   Teas,    106 

for  Formal  Dinner,  164 

for  Luncheons,  140 
Spanish  Cream,  116 
Spiced  Nuts,   94 
Specialties,  8 

Marketing  of,  9 

Tea  Room,  234 
Specialty    Cooking,    17-38 
Spiced  Fruits,  21 
Sponge  Cake,  68 
Squares,  Fudge,   70 
Stale  Cake,  Using,  57,  253 
Standardized  Portions,   216 
Standardizing  Bread,   32 

Jellies,  25 

Recipes,  18 
Steak,  Planked,  166 
Steamed  Puddings,   222 
Steam  Table,   261 

Care   of,   263 
Sticks,  Pastry,  47 
Stock  Accounting,  35 
Store  Lunch  Rooms,   208 
Store   Room,   Cafeteria,   265 

Cards,    268 

for  Guest  House,  196 

Management,   268 
St.  Patrick's  Day  Luncheon,  149 
Strawberry  Cocktail,  137,  138 

Ice   Cream    Shortcake,   254 


INDEX 


285 


St,  Valentine  Spread,  148 

Luncheon,   149 
Success,  Qualifications  for,  5 
Sugrared  Peanuts,  94 
Summer  Camps,  179,  217 
Sundae,    Chocolate    Peppermint, 
255 

Fudg^e  Marshmallo^T,  255 
Sundaes,  119 
Sunshine  Cake.   68 
Supper,  Catering-  for  Large,  128 
Swedish  Tea  Cakes,  109 
Syrup,  Chocolate,  236 

Crystal,  for  Candies,  87 

Simple,  for  Candies,    88 

Tabasco  French  Dressing,  168 

Table    Decorating-    for    Formal 
Dinner,  158 

for  Luncheon,  134 

for  Supper,   128 
Table  D'Hote  Meals,  186 
Table  Service  Buffet,  110 

Formal,  158 
Table  Setting,  Formal,  158 
Table,  Steam,  261 
Tarts,  Apricot,    47 

Filene,  47 

Marlowe,  46 

Marshniallow^,  46 
Tea,  Afternoon,  103 

Cakes,  Swedish,  109 

How  to  Make,  104 

Iced,  105 
Tea  Room,  Balance  Sheet  of,  213 
Tea  Room  Manae^ement,  225-256 

Advertising,    230 

Equipment,  232 

Furnishing,  228 

Location,   226 

Menus,  235 

Names,  227 

Recipes,    236-255 
Thanksgiving     Dinner     Menus, 
175 

Supper,  152 
Thermometer,  Candy,  77 

Oven,    62 
Thousand  Island  French  Dress- 
ing, 170 


Three  Meals  a  Day,  184 
Timbales,    114 
Toast,  Cinnamon,  238 
Toasted  Cheese  and  Date  Sand- 
wich, 244 
Toasted  3Iuffin  Sandwich,  242 

Mushroom   Sandw^ich,   246 

Sandwiches,  243 
Toast,  Tea  Room,  237 
Traffic  Rail,  263 
Traveling  Kitchen,   214 
Trays,  Cafeteria,   265 
Turkish  Paste,  90 
Turnovers,  48 

Utensils,  Candy  Making,  75 
Kitchen,    265 
Tea  Room,  232 

Variety  in  Meals,  192 
Vegetables  for  Luncheon,  144 

liV^afers,  Butterscotch,  90 
Waffles,  248 

and  Griddle  Cakes,  247 
Waiters   for  Luncheon,   135 

for  Tea,   102 
Walnut  Bars,  70 
Washington     Birthday     Spread, 

149 
Water  Cooler,  263 
Wedding    Cake,    69 
Wedding  Reception,   112 
Weights       and       Measures, 

Table,   51 
When   to  Serve  What,   183 
Whipped  Cream,  Quantity  to  a 

Quart,   99 
White   Cake,    67 
White   Fondant,   85 
Whole  W^heat  or  Graham  Bread, 

27 
W^inchester  Nut  Bread,  29 
Woman's   Exchanges,  3 
Work   Shop,   Equipment  for,   13 

Plan  of,  15 

Yellow  Layer  Pie,  66 


HOME-STUDY  COURSES  IN  HOME  ECONOMICS 

For  Home  Makers,  Mothers,  Houseworkers,  etc.  Professional 
Courses,  for  Teachers,  Dietitians,  Institution  Managers,  Nurses, 
Demonstration  Agents,  etc.      1  00-page  Bulletin  on  request. 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS 

12  Volumes — 3,000  Pages — 1,000  Illustrations 
FOOD  SUBJECTS 

PRINCIPLES    OF    COOKERY,    by  CHEMISTRY     OF     THE     HOUSE- 

Anna    Barrows,     Columbia    Uni-  HOLD,  by  Margaret  E.  Dodd,  S. 

versity.  B.  Mass.  Institute  of  Technology. 

FOOD  AND  DIETETICS,  by   Prof.  HOUSEHOLD   MANAGEMENT,   by 

Alice  P.  Norton,  M.  A.,  formerly  Prof.   Bertha   M,   Terrill,    M.    A., 

University     of     Chicago,     Editor  University  of  Vermont. 
Journal  of  Home  Economics. 

HEALTH  SUBJECTS 
HOUSEHOLD  BACTERIOLOGY,  by       PERSONAL  HYGIENE,  by  M,  Le- 

Prof.   S.  Maria  Elliott,   Simmons  Bosquet,  S.  B.,  Director  A.  S.  H.  E. 

College.  HOME    CARE    OP   THE    SICK,    by 

HOUSEHOLD  HYGIENE,  by  Prof.  Amy  E.  Pope,  Presbyterian  Hos- 

S.  Maria  Elliott,  Simmons  College.  pital.  New  York  City. 

HOUSEHOLD  ARTS 

THE  HOUSE:   ITS  PLAN,  DECO-  TEXTILES    AND    CLOTHING,    by 

RATION    AND    CARE,    by    Prof.  Kate    M.     Watson,     formerly    of 

Isabel  Bevier,  Ph.  M.,  University  Lewis  Institute  and  University  of 

of  Illinois.  Chicago. 

CHILDREN 
CARE  OF  CHILDREN,  by  Prof.  A.        STUDY     OF     CHILD     LIFE,     by 
C.  Cotton,  M.  D.,  formerly  Rush  Marion  Poster  Washburne,  Editor 

Medical     College,     University     of  Mothers'  Magazine. 

Chicago. 

Price  $1.50  per  Volume.    Textbook  edition,  special  rate  to  schools 


THE  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  LIBRARY 

6  Volumes — 4,000  Pages — 1,200  Illustrations 
(I)    Handbook    of    Food    and  (2)  Handbook  of  House- 
Diet  keeping 

Chemistry     of     the     Household ;  The  House :  Its  Plan,  Decoration 

Principles  of  Cookery  ;  Pood  and  and    Care  ;    Household    Hygiene  ; 

Dietetics.  Household  Management. 

(3)    Handbook  of  Health  and  (4)    Handbook    of   Dress   and 

Nursing  Childhood 

Household      Bacteriology;      Per-  Textiles    and    Clothing;    Care   of 

sonal  Hygiene  ;  Home  Care  of  Sick.  Children  ;  Study  of  Child  Life. 

Price,  %  Leather  Style,  $3.00  per  Volume.    Textbook  edition,  special  rate 
(5)  Lessons  in  Cooking,  Through  Preparation  of  Meals 

By  PuoF.  Eva  R.  Robinson,  B.S.,  University  of  South  Dakota,  and 
Helen  G.  Hammel,  Farmers'  Institute,  Lecturer,  etc. 
Price,  %  Leather  Style,  $3.00.    Cloth,  $2.50.     Textbook  edition,  special  rate. 

(6)    Household  Engineering,  Scientific  Management   in  the  Home 

By  Christine  Frederick,  Consulting  Editor,  Ladies'  Home  Journal. 
Price,   %   Leather  Style,  $3.00.     Cloth,  $2.50.     Text  edition,  special  rate. 
COOKING    FOR     PROFIT— Bradley,     $3.00;     LOW     COST     COOKING— Nesbit, 

$1.00;    HOUSEHOLD    ACCOUNT    BOOK,     $1.00;     WEEKLY    ALLOWANCE 

BOOK,   10c;  HOUSEHOLD  ACCOUNTING  CHECK  RECORD,   $1.00. 
BULLETINS— Free-Hand    Cooking,    10c;   Food   Values,    10c;    Five-Cent   Meals, 

10c;    Wheatless-Meatless   Meals,    10c;    "The   Art   of    Spending,"    10c;    "How 

John  and  Mary  Live  and   Save  on   $35   a  Week,"   10c. 

American  School  of  Home  Economics,"  Chicago 


An  Invitation 

^  Miss  Alice  Bradley,  author  of 
Cooking  for  Profit,  invites  you  to  write 
to  her  personally  for  the  attractive 
illustrated  booklet  of  her  school  and 
to  call  on  her  at  the  school  when  you 
are   in    the   neighborhood    of   Boston. 

^  Practice  classes  in  all  branches  of 
cookery  and  household  technique  are 
held  the  year  round.  Special  private 
lessons,  short  courses,  intensive  courses 
of  one,  two  and  six  months  for  home 
or   professional  use  can  be   arranged. 

^  A  demonstration  lecture  course  of 
new  dishes  is  given  by  mail.     Write  to 

MISS  ALICE  BRADLEY,  Principal 
Miss    Farmer's    School    of    Cookery 

30  Huntington  Avenue 
BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 


^"G/i9   1933 

'''    9    1933 
SEP  11  1934 

W/lf.  ^5  ,935 

DEC  19  mi 


*Wfl   ^  ,946 


L'EC]  31955LU 


SEP  2' 


% 


FEB  27  1946 


LB  al- 


so. 


YC   I8lb5 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


III 


CaDbQSM37D 


491101 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAUFORNIA  LIBRARY 


