T] 

IAJ] 


THE  LIBRARY 
OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


C.  G.  LYNCH.  Manager 


SIERRA  MADRE  YARD 
LA  BELLE  AVE    NEAR  BALDWIN  STATION 


J.  W.  KEYS,  Agent 


WOMAN'S    CLUB     HOUSE 


The  Sierra  Madre  Woman's  Club  was  organized  in 
March,  1907,  with  Mrs.  J.  A.  Osgood  as  President  and  a 
membership  of  fifty-three. 

The  object  of  this  organization  is  "to  stimulate  intel- 
lectual development;  to  promote  unity  and  good  fellowship 
among  its  members;  and  to  strengthen  individual,  philan- 
thropic and  reformatory  effort."  At  the  present  time  there 
are  about  one  hundred  and  ten  members.  The  Club  meets 
at  three  p.  m.  on  the  second  and  fourth  Mondays  of  each 
month  at  the  Woman's  Club  House. 

The  Club  House  was  completed  July  1st,  1909.  The 
auditorium  of  this  building  has  a  seating  capacity  of  three 
hundred  and  fifty.  With  the  addition  of  the  lobbies,  parlor 
and  dining  room,  five  hundred  guests  can  easily  enjoy 
any  entertainment  that  can  be  put  upon  this  stage. 

MRS.  GEORGE  H.  LETTEAU, 
Dec.  11,  1909.  President. 


$9HHH**&IKHHe*aftHHHHN^ 

PAGE  ONI* 


Ye  may  live  without  Books; 
What  is  Knowledge  but  Grieving? 
Ye  may  live  without  Hope; 
What  is  Hope  but  Deceiving? 
Ye  may  live  without  Love; 
WThat  is  Passion  but  Pining? 
But  where  is  the  Man 
Who  can  live  without  Dining? 


PAGE  TWO 


For  the  People 

of  Good  Taste 


Sold  Under  Guarantee  of  Absolute 
Satisfaction 


At  First  Class  Groceries 


PAGE  THREE 


IN    A    NEAR-BY     CANYON 


Municipal  Enterprise 


ml 


During  the  thirty-three  months  next  following  the  incor- 


m 


poration  of  Sierra  Madre  as  a  city  of  the  sixth  class,  there 
have  been  over  42,000  feet  of  streets  improved  with  petro- 
lithic  paving,  which  is  at  the  rate  of  nearly  fifty  feet  per 
day  for  the  entire  period.  Added  to  this,  84,000  feet  of 
curbing  and  325,000  square  feet  of  gutter,  makes  as  fine  a 
system  of  streets  as  any  city  of  its  class  in  Southern  Cali- 
fornia can  boast. 

All  this  has  had  no  small  influence,  together  with  the 
score  of  other  unparalleled  points  of  advantage,  in  in- 
creasing the  population  of  our  city  fourfold  in  this  same 
short  interval. 

C.  W.  JONES, 
President  Board  of  Trustees. 


PAGE  FOUR 


O.  K. 

Cash    Department    Store 


fl  The  place  where  you  can  get  every  thing 
the  best.  We  guarantee  quality  in  every- 
thing we  sell.  We  have  a  most  complete 
stock  of  dry  goods,  notions,  shoes,  hats, 
men's  furnishing  goods,  glassware,  crockery 
sporting  goods  and  groceries 


tj  You  cannot  afford  to  shop  away  from 
home  and  thereby  kill  your  own  business 
houses.  Come  in  and  let  us  show  you  what 
a  large  up-to-date  stock  of  goods  we  carry. 
Always  glad  to  see  you.  No  trouble  to 
show  goods.  Call  us  up  by  phone — Green 
46 — we  are  always  ready  to  deliver  promptly 
any  article  you  want,  big  or  little  .  .  . 


Oswald     Rehlet,      Proprietor 


PAGE   FIVE 


HORS-D'OEUVERES 

Fruit  Relish — 

Small  pieces  of  orange,  pineapple,  banana,  loquat,  peach,  apricot, 
grapes,  cherries  and  strawberries,  according  to  season,  with  French 
dressing,  is  most  attractive  served  in  tall  glasses.  Pour  over  a 
little  French  dressing,  or  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

MRS.  J.  A.  OSGOOD. 

Cocktail  of  Cucumbers  and  Celery — 

Two  hours  before  serving  take  one  head  of  celery,  break  apart, 
wash  and  put  on  the  ice.  Take  four  cucumbers,  peel  and  cut  in 
dice.  Put  in  weak  salt  water  in  which  are  pieces  of  ice.  Let  these 
remain  at  least  an  hour.  Make  a  tomato  sauce  and  have  it  well 
seasoned,  using  a  little  lemon  juice.  Have  this  ice  cold.  Cut  the 
celery  into  very  small  pieces.  Add  the  celery  and  cucumber  dice 
to  the  tomato  and  serve  at  once  as  you  would  an  oyster  cocktail. 

MRS.  G.  H.  LETTEAU. 

Sherried  Fruit — 

1  pint  good  sherry  %    a  banana 
^4    cup  sugar  %    an   orange 

2  dried  figs  few  white  grapes 

I     dates  18   maraschino  cherries 

Cut  in  small  pieces  all  fruit  except  the  cherries.  Put  sherry  and 
sugar  in  saucepan  and  let  it  just  come  to  a  boil  and  set  to  cool. 
Half  fill  sherbet  glasses  with  the  fruit,  and  an  hour  before  serving 
pour  over  the  sherry  and  set  in  ice  box.  MRS.  A.  B.  HEISKELL. 

Grape  Fruit  in  Shells — 

,  Cut  grape  fruit  in  two,  remove  pulp,  scallop  shells  with  scissors, 
and  throw  into  cold  water,  so  they  will  not  warp.  Break  pulp  into 
small  pieces,  carefully  removing  all  skin.  Mix  with  mayonnaise,  and 
put  in  icebox.  If  mayonnaise  is  not  well  seasoned,  add  paprika,  a 
pinch  of  mustard  and  a  very  little  sugar.  Fill  the  shells,  and 
decorate  with  cherries,  mint  or  Cecil  Brunei-  roses. 

MRS.  C.  W.  JONES. 

Fill  Hors-d'oeuvre  set  dishes  or  small  glass  dishes  placed  on 
tray  decorated  with  mint  or  parsley,  and  passed  for  first  course  of 
lunch  or  dinner,  with  any  of  the  following  relishes: 

Celery  stumps  boiled  tender,  small  red  tomatoes  iced,  and  thin 
slices  of  cucumber  soaked  in  oil,  with  French  dressing.  Black  olives 
and  pimolas,  Strassbourg  pate  de  foie  gras  turned  out  whole  on 
lettuce  leaf.  Pimentoes  with  mayonnaise.  Caviare  spread  on  toast 
cut  round  with  biscuit  cutter.  Hors-d'oeuvre  varie.  Round  anchovies 
en  crackers.  Sardines  and  sliced  lemon.  Celery  hearts.  French 
bread,  made  crisp  by  warming  in  hot  oven,  should  be  served  with 
hors-d'oeuvres. 

'    PAGE   SIX 


Brown  Soup  Stock — 

Take  three  to  four  pounds  beef  bone  with  good  meat  on,  and 
plenty  of  marrow,  and  a  knuckle  of  veal.  Wash  and  put  on  in  cold, 
water  with  an  onion  which  has  been  washed  and  roasted  in  the  oven 
without  peeling,  pieces  of  celery  and  leaves,  parsley,  carrots  and 
turnips.  Be  sure  to  have  plenty  of  water,  cover  tightly  and  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Cook  four  to  five  hours,  but  do  not  boil  hard  at 
any  time.  Strain  into  another  kettle  to  cool,  when  it  may  be 
skimmed  and  put  into  ice  box.  If  required  before  it  has  time  to 
cool,  set  kettle  in  pan  of  cold  water  and  drop  a  good-sized  piece  of 
ice  into  the  stock,  which  will  soon  cause  the  fat  to  harden.  Never 
leave  meat  in  the  stock  while  cooling. 

Bouillon — 

5  Ibs.  lean  beef  3  qts.  cold  water 

2  Ibs.  marrow  bone  1  teaspoon  pepper  corns 

carrots,  turnips,  onions,  one-third  cup  each,  cut  in  dice 

Wipe  and  cut  meat  in  inch  cubes.  Put  two-thirds  meat  in  soup 
kettle  and  soak  in  water  thirty  minutes.  Brown  remainder  in  hot 
frying  pan  with  marrow  from  marrow  bone.  Put  browned  meat  and 
bone  in  kettle.  Heat  to  boiling  point.  Skim  thoroughly.  Cook  at 
temperature  below  boiling  point  for  five  hours.  Add  seasonings  and 
vegetables.  Cook  one  hour.  Strain  and  cool.  Remove  fat  and 
clear,  serve  in  cups.  MRS.  L.  C.  TORRANCE. 


Creole  Soup— 

1     qt.  brown  soup  stock  2 

1  pt.  tomatoes 

3     tablespoonsful  chopped  green 
peppers 

2  tablespoonsful  chopped  onions 
%    cup  butter  1 


tablespoonsful    grated 

radish 
salt 
pepper 
cayenne 
tablespoonful  vinegar 


%    cup  flour  14    cup  macaroni  rings 

Cook  peppers  and  onions  in  butter  five  minutes.     Add  flour,  stock 
and  tomatoes  and  simmer   fifteen   minutes.     Strain   through   sieve 

PAGE  SEVEN 


and  season  highly.      Just  before  serving  add   horse  radish,   vinegar 
and  macaroni.  MRS.  SOPHIE  PETERSON. 

White  Stock  — 

4      Ibs.  knuckle  veal  M>    teaspoonful  pepper 

2      qts.  cold  water  1      onion 

1      tablespoonful  salt  2      stalks  celery 

Wipe  meat,    remove    from    bone   and    cut   in   small    pieces.      Put 

with   wfter    and    seasonings  in    kettle.      Heat    gradually    to    boiling 

point,  skimming  frequently.  Simmer  four  hours  and  strain. 

To  Clear  Stock  — 

Remove  fat  from  stock,  nut  in  stewpan,  allowing  white  and  shell 
of  one  e  ;?  to  each  quart  of  stock.  Beat  egg  slightly  and  crush  shell 
and  add  vo  stock.  Stir  constantly  until  it  boils.  Set  back  and  let 
simmer  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain  through  cheesecloth. 


Hygienic 

6      cups   white   stock  2      tablespoonsful  butter 

%    cup  oatmeal  2      tablespoonsful  flour 

2      cups  scalded  milk  salt  and  pepper 

Heat  stock  to  boiling  point.  Add  oatmeal  and  cook  one  hour. 
Rub  through  sieve.  Add  milk  and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour 
cooked  together.  Season  and  serve. 

Farina  Soup— 

4      cups  white  stock  1      cup  cream 

*4    cup  farina  salt 

2     cups  scalded   milk  pepper 

Heat  stock  to  boiling  point.  Add  farina  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Then  add  cream,  milk  and  seasoning. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  — 

2  cups  of  white  stock  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

3  cups  celery  cut  in  inch  pieces      1  cup  cream 

2  cups  boiling  water  2  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  slice  onion  2  cups  milk 

salt  and  pepper 

Parboil  celery  in  water  ten  minutes,  drain,  add  stock,  cook 
celery  and  rub  through  sieve.  Scald  onion  in  milk,  remove  onion, 
add  milk  and  stock;  bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together. 
Add  cream  anu  salt  and  pepper. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup— 

Made  the  same  as  cream  of  celery,  substituting  one  can  of  aspara- 
gus in  place  of  celery. 

Tomato  Soup— 

1     can  tomatoes  2     teaspoonsful  sugar 

1     pint  water  1      teaspoonful   salt 

rib  bay  leaf  1-3  teaspoonful  soda 

FAGE   EIGHT 


12   pepper  cones  2      tablespoonsful  butter 

4      cloves  3      tablespoonsful  flour 

1      tablespoonful  chopped  onion 

Cook  the  first  six  ingredients  twenty  minutes,  strain,  add  salt 
and  soda,  bind  and  strain  into  tureen  over  one  cup  whipped  cream. 

Corn  Soup— 

Made  the  same  as  tomato  soup,  using  one  can  corn  or  kornlet  in 
place  of  tomato 

Black  Bean  Soup— 

1  pint  black  beans  ^4    teaspoonful   mustard 

2  quarts  cold  water  3      tablespoonsful    butter 
1      small  onion  1  Va  Tablespoonsful  flour 
*4    teaspoonful  celery  salt                 2      hard  boiled  eggs 

14    tablespoonful  salt  1      cup  whipped  cream 

1-3  teaspoonful  pepper  1      lemon 

Soak  over  night,  drain  and  add  cold  water.  Slice  onion  and  cook 
five  minutes  with  half  the  butter,  add  the  beans.  Simmer  four 
hours.  Add  more  water  as  it  boils  away.  Put  through  sieve,  reheat 
to  boiling  point  and  add  seasonings.  Bind  with  remaining  butter 
and  flour  and  add  cream.  Cut  egg  and  lemon  in  thin  slices  and  put 
in  tureen  and  strain  soup  over  them.  MRS.  L.  C.  TORRANCE. 

Mock  Terrapin  Soup — 

Half  dozen  potatoes  (cut  small)  boiled  in  two  quarts  of  water. 
Four  onions  fried  in  butter  to  a  golden  brown.  Add  to  water  and 
potatoes.  A  dash  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  Sweet 
Marjoram,  Thyme,  Summer  Savory,  a  Bay  leaf,  a  few  whole  cloves 
and  allspice.  When  potatoes  are  done  add  egg  dumplings  rolled 
small.  Brown  enough  flour  to  thicken.  Just  before  serving  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  sherry. 

ELIZABETH  S.  DIETZ. 

SOVP  GARNISHES 

Croutaiis — 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  slices  and  remove  crusts.  Spread 
thinly  with  butter,  put  in  oven  to  bake  or  fry  in  deep  fat  without 
butter.  Serve  the  same  as  crackers. 

Cheese  Sticks — 

Cut  bread  in  small,  thin  slices,  spread  thinly  with  butter,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  and  paprika,  and  bake  until  brown. 

Egg  Balls — 

1  hard  boiled  eg?  1-S  teaspoon  salt 

1  saltspoon  cayenne  1  teaspoon  heavy  cream 

Rub  yolk  through  sieve,  add  finely  chopped  white  and  remaining 
ingredients,  add  an  egg  yolk  to  make  right  consistency  to  handle. 
Shape  in  small  balls  and  poach  in  water  or  stock.  Serve  in  soup. 

PAGE   NINE 


Egg  Custard — 

2  tablespoons  milk  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  saltspoon  salt 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  milk  and  salt,  pour  into  small  buttered 
cup,  place  in  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm;  cool.  Remove  from  cup, 
cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  serve  in  soup. 

How  to  Bind  Soups — 

Cream  soups  and  purees  will  separate  if  allowed  to  stand.  To 
bind  soups,  melt  butter  and  when  bubbling  add  equal  quantity  flour. 
When  well  mixed  add  to  boiling  soup,  stirring  constantly. 


FIRE  INSURANCE 

Insure  in  an  Old,  Reliable,  Tried  and  Fire-tested  Com- 
pany. Liverpool  and  London  and  Globe,  Springfield, 
Fireman's  Fund.  Sierra  Madre  Agent,  Phone  Green  78 

W.  S.  ANDREWS 


SHOES 

Ladies',  Gentlemen's  and  Children  s  Shoes.  Also 
Rubbers  and  Rubber  Boots  at  City  Prices.  Repairing 
Neatly  Done.  Corner  Baldwin  and  Central  Avenues 

M.  OLSEN 


T.  M.   WEBSTER 
BUILDER 

Residence  Bonita  Avenue  Between  Baldwin  and  Her- 
mosa  Avenues.       Home   Telephone  Red  27     . 


PAGE  TEN 


Sweet  and  Sour  Salmon — 

juice  of  3  lemons  8  bay  leaves 

pepper  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  sliced  lemon  2  tablespoons  sherry  wine 

sherry  wine  6  cloves,  heads  removed 

salt  yolks  of  3  eggs 

1  onion  3  spoons  sugar 

Take  the  strained  lemon  juice,  half  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoon 
vinegar;  slice  in  one  onion  and  add  raisins,  bay  leaves  and  cloves, 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  salmon,  a  large  two-inch  slice,  and 
let  boil  five  minutes,  with  a  little  salt.  Add  the  sherry  and  sliced 
lemon  (without  seeds)  and  the  sugar,  or  two  Nuremburgher  honey 
cakes.  Boil  until  salmon  is  cooked  through;  pour  off  gravy;  turn 
salmon  and  ingredients  slowly  on  platter  without  breaking.  Beat 
yolks,  and  stir  gravy  in  slowly.  Put  back  on  stove  and  stir  until  it 
thickens,  and  then  pour  over  salmon.  Serve  cold. 

MRS.   L.    C.   TORRANCE. 

Salmon   Scallop — 

2  cups  shredded  salmon  2      eggs  well  beaten 
1      cup  bread  crumbs  1     teaspoon  salt 

14    cup   melted   butter  pinch  of  pepper 

Remove  all  bones  and  skin,  make  in  a  roll  and  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs.  Bake  thirty  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  platter  and 
pour  one  pint  of  cooked  green  peas  over  it  just  before  sending  to 
the  table.  JENNIE  G.  MADDEN. 

Fried  Fish — 

Take  small  fish,  or  large  fish  cut  in  small  pieces,  wash,  dry  a 
little  and  roll  in  flour  and  corn  meal  mixed  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Drop  into  deep  skillet  of  very  hot  olive  oil.  Be  sure  fish  floats. 
Serve  very  hot,  with  cream  gravy,  or  Spanish  sauce,  or  mayonnaise 
into  which  is  stirred  a  little  chopped  pickle.  MRS.  BURCH. 

Cod  Fish  Balls — 

Pick  in  very  small  pieces  salt  cod  fish  enough  for  two  cupsful. 
Soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  peel  six  medium 
size  potatoes,  add  the  cod  fish  and  boil  until  the  potatoes  are  done. 
Drain,  let  stand  a  moment  to  dry  out.  Season  with  pepper  and 

PAGE   ELEVEN 


salt.  Mash,  add  one  tablespoon  of  very  thick  cream.  Then  add  the 
well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Make  in  balls  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
(Very  fine.)  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD. 

Baked  Fish  Stuffing — 

Fry  two  onions  and  a  little  bacon.  Add  to  two  cups  of  stale 
bread.  Stir  in  a  beaten  egg,  salt,  paprika  and  celery  salt.  Wash 
fish,  after  scraping  well,  stuff  and  sew  up.  Bake  with  enough 
water  to  baste  with.  Serve  with  cream  gravy  to  which  may  be 
added  any  shell  fish,  or  with  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Fish  Baked  in  Milk — 

Put  a  large  flat  piece  of  fish  in  baking  tin.  Pour  over  it  a  cup 
of  water  and  a  pint  of  milk,  a  half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  an  onion 
chopped  fine,  and  pieces  of  butter  and  parsley.  Bake  slowly,  basting 
often. 

Boil  a  cup  of  chopped  celery  tender.  Take  a  pint  of  water  and 
thicken  it  with  1  tablespoonful  flour.  Add  celery,  butter,  mush- 
rooms, a  wine  glass  of  sherry,  and  some  Worcestershire  sauce,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  fish. 

Sauce  Hollandaise — 

1      pt.  soup  or  fish  gravy  2     yolks  of  eggs 

piece  butter  size  of  egg  juice  of  half  a  lemon 

Cream    butter,    add    lemon    juice    and    yolks    of    eggs;    pour    the 

boiling  gravy  into  this,  stirring  constantly.     Put  over  fire  in  double 

boiler  and  stir  until  thick. 


PAGE  TWELVE 


Mock  Terrapin   (a  good  supper  dish)  — 

One  pound  of  liver,  either  par  boiled  or  fried,  and  cut  in  small 
cubes.  Make  a  rich  brown  gravy,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  two 
hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and  the  liver.  Add  a  teaspoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  a  wine  glass  of  sherry  and  a  little  lemon 
Juice.  JULIA  F.  NICHOLS. 

Chicken  a  la  King — 
Boil  two  chickens  until  tender 
1     can  pimentoes  flour  to  thicken 

can  mushrooms  salt,  pepper  and  butter 

1      qt.  milk  sweet  cream 

Cut  chicken,  pimentoes  and  mushrooms  fine,  mix  well  and  let 
stand  an  hour  or  longer.  Make  a  thick  cream  sauce  of  the  milk  and 
flour,  seasoning  with  butter,  mix  in  the  chicken,  and  thin  to  the 
consistency  required  with  sweet  cream.  Do  not  use  any  of  the 
liquor  that  the  chicken  was  cooked  in.  MRS.  M.  D.  WELSHER. 
Sausage  Turnover — 

Take  one  dozen  Meadowbrook  sausages  or  any  small  linked  pork 
sausage,  cook  until  well  browned.  While  sausages  are  cooking  mix 
a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  a  little  thicker  than  pie  crust  and  cut 
in  circles,  with  large  sized  biscuit  cutter.  Take  a  hot  sausage  and 
place  in  center  of  each  circle,  fold  dough  as  for  turnover,  crimp 
edges,  prick  top  and  bake  quickly.  MRS.  ALICE  M.  STAPLES. 

Crust  for  Meat  or  Chicken  Pie — 

One,  two  or  three  eggs,  yellows  and  whites  beaten  separately, 
1%  cups  of  sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  not 
too  thick.  Stir  in  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt. 
Beat  well.  Have  meat,  gravy  and  pieces  of  potatoes,  a  little  onion 
and  green  peppers  thoroughly  cooked  in  deep  baking  dish,  and 
slightly  cooled.  Pour  batter  over  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  This  crust 
will  be  brown  on  top,  and  very  light  and  tender. 

Yorkshire  Pudding — 

Make  batter  as  above,  and  pour  into  the  pan  of  roast  beef  thirty 

PAGE   THIRTEEN 


minutes  before  taking  it  from  oven.  If  the  roast  is  not  elevated 
on  a  gridiron,  allowing  the  gravy  to  drip  on  the  batter,  baste  every 
ten  minutes. 

Lamb's  Brains — 

Cut  each  lobe  of  the  brains  in  two,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  place  in  a  frying  pan  with  plenty  of  butter,  cook  slowly 
for  half  an  hour,  turning  as  necessary.  MRS.  C.  H.  BAKER. 

Meat  Gems — 

Chop  cold  boiled  meat,  and  partially  fill  gem  tins;  on  top  break 
an  egg,  and  bake  in  oven  until  white  of  egg  is  set. 

MRS.    C.    H.    BAKER. 

Panned  Veal  Steak — 

Have  ready  a  hot  buttered  pan  and  put  in  one  large  or  two  small 
steaks  about  %  or  1  inch  thick.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  sliced  onions;  add  to  this  either  sliced 
or  canned  tomatoes,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper, 
bits  of  butter  and  a  little  hot  water.  Bake  about  %  of  an  hour 
in  a  hot  oven.  Remove  steak  to  platter  carefully;  make  a  brown 
gravy  in  the  pan  and  pour  over  the  steak.  Garnish  with  parsley. 

MRS.    G.    E.    COAPMAN. 

Hungarian  Goulash — 

Cut  a  pound  of  good  round  steak  into  inch  cubes  and  when 
washed  add  an  equal  quantity  of  thickly  sliced  onions.  Put  good 
piece  of  butter  in  large  kettle  and  when  it  bubbles  add  meat  and 
onions;  let  it  brown  slighty,  then  stew  very  slowly  for  three  or  four 
hours.  Add  but  very  little  water,  as  the  juice  of  the  onion  and 
meat  will  make  a  good  gravy.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  add 
salt,  paprika  or  cayenne  and  a  small  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

MRS.    H.    G.    FLINT. 

Braised  Liver — 

Soak  liver  in  cold  water,  remove  muscle  or  veins,  pour  boiling 
water  over  it  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Drain  and  skewer  into 
shape.  Lay  thin  strips  of  salt  pork  over  the  top.  Fry  a  small 
onion  in  a  stablespoonful  pork  fat,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
poultry  seasoning  and  pour  in  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Place  liver 
in  dish  that  can  be  covered  tightly,  pour  seasoning  over,  and  add 
enough  more  boiling  water  to  half  fill  the  dish;  cover  and  bake  until 
tender.  Once  in  fifteen  minutes  uncover  and  baste,  unless  the  dish 
and  cover  fit  so  closely  as  to  prevent  evaporation  of  the  liquid. 
Thicken  the  liquid  when  done  with  flour  and  pour  over  meat.  Gar- 
nish T-lth  lemon  and  parsley.  MRS.  CARLTON  J.  PEGLER. 
PAGE  FOURTEEN 


WE  ARE  EXCLUSIVE  AGENTS 

For  Jevne's  Cakes  and  Bread 

Chase  and  Sanborn  Tea  and  Coffee 

Premium  and  Los  Angeles  Butter 
Quality  the  best  Prices  reasonable 

SIERRA  MADRE  DEPARTMENT  STORE 

S.  R.  NORR1S.  Proprietor 


SIERRA  MADRE  PHARMACY 

Drugs,  Stationery,  Cigars.  Agent 
for  Christopher,  McDonald  and 
Jevne  Candies  -  -  - 

W.  E.  BECHTELHEIMER 


N.  H.  HOSMER 


REAL  ESTATE   -   -   -   -    NOTARY  PUBLIC 


TELEPHONE  BLACK  22 


PAGE  FIFTEEN 


Bobotee  (a  delicate  kind  of  Indian  curry)  — 

1      onion  6      or  8  sweet  almonds 

1     ounce  of  butter  2      eggs 

1      cupful  milk  %    Ib  minced  cold  or  uncooked 

1     slice  of  bread  meat 

1      tablespoonful  c;:rry  powder 

Slice  an  onion  and  fry  it  in  butter,  soak  in  milk  a  small  slice 
of  bread,  and  grate  six  or  eight  sweet  airloads,  beat  two  eggs 
into  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  mix  the  whole  well  together,  with 
%  Ib  minced  meat,  a  small  luiip  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful 
curry  powder.  Rub  a  bake-dish  with  butter  and  lemon  juice,  and 
bake  the  curry  thus  made  in  not  too  hot  an  oven.  Serve  it  with 
boiled  Patna  rice  in  a  separate  dish.  MRS.  F.  P.  CONARD. 


Board  of  Trade 

v 


mam  r^am 

k.  The  Sierra  Madre  Board  of  Trade,  organized  to  promote  k 

1|      the  business  interests,  growth  and  general  propserity  of  the  P 

M      City  of  Sierra  Madre,  has  about  fifty  active  members.      Its  ^ 

k      monthly  meetings  are  well  attended.  k 

||  The    Directors    are    at    work    on    a    plan    for    municipal  H 

H      ownership  of  the  local  water  supply,  and  for  improvement  || 

of  highways  leading  into  Sierra  Madre.  f| 

The    Advertising    Committee    has    done    effective    work  |1 

publishing    booklets    and    circulars    descriptive    of    Sierra  || 

Madre,  and  carrying  advertisements  in  current  publications.  £j 

The  Transportation  Committee  is  at  work  all  the  time  k. 

for  the  improvement  of  the  car  service.  ^ 

This  year  a  "Civic  Improvement"  Committee  is  working  Sj 

on  a  plan  for  the  beautifying  of  Sierra  Madre,  and  offering  k 

prizes  to  residents  making  the  best  showing  in  beautifying  || 

their  premises.  fj 

J.  W.  KEYS,  1 

President  Board  of  Trade.  j| 


PAGE   SIXTEEN 


R£AS T  S 


Beef  a  la  Mode — • 

12   Ibs.  beef  from  the  round 

STUFFING 

1  Ib  of  suet  chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  pow.  ginger 

I  five-cent  loaf  stale  bread  1  teaspoon  clove 

1  tablespoon  pow.  allspice  1  teaspoon  garlic  or  grated  onion 

1  tablespoon  pow.  cinnamon  salt  and  pepper 

Mix  stuffing  thoroughly  and  fill  the  beef,  which  should  be  five 
or  six  inches  thick,  with  cross  cuts  half  way  through.  Fill  these, 
which  should  be  on  both  sides,  pressing  the  stuffing  in.  Bind  round 
a  strong  piece  of  muslin  to  hold  it  firm,  and  pour  over  it  a  cup  of 
vinegar,  half  on  each  side.  Let  it  stand  forty-eight  hours.  It  should 
be  turned  and  the  liquor  dipped  over  it,  so  as  to  thoroughly  soak 
in.  Roast  two  hours,  first  half  hour  uncovered  in  very  hot  oven, 
rest  of  time  covered,  adding  a  little  hot  water  when  necessary.  It 
is  an  excellent  summer  dish  and  keeps  a  long  time.  (Make  brown 
gravy.)  JULIA  F.  NICHOLS. 

^Domestic  Ducks — 

ly  Pick  and  draw  and  put  on  ice  for  two  days.  Singe,  wash  and 
stuff  with  dressing,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  from  one  to  two  hours, 
according  to  size  and  age.  One  cup  chopped  apple,  %  cup  raisins, 
%  cup  bread  crumbs,  chopped  onion  and  celery  browned  in  one 
tablespoon  of  butter  or  duck  fat.  Mix  well,  seasoning  with  parsley, 
salt  and  paprika  for  stuffing.  MRS.  BURCH. 

To  Roast  Wild  Duck — 

Clean  and  wash  thoroughly,  soak  in  salt  water  4  to  6  hours. 
Put  into  sufficient  boiling  water  to  partly  cover  and  parboil  one 
hour.  Stuff  and  put  in  double  baker.  Rub  each  duck  generously 
with  butter.  Put  into  quick  oven.  As  soon  as  brown  add  water, 
which  has  been  kept  hot,  in  which  ducks  were  parboiled.  Baste 
often.  After  ducks  are  brown  reduce  heat  to  moderate  oven.  Bake 
1  %  hours.  Some  prefer  celery  and  bread  crumb  dressing  to  the 
sage  and  onion.  Either  must  be  rich  with  butter. 

EVA  H.  THORNBURG. 
PAGE   SEVENTEEN 


Baked  Ham — 

Select  12  to  14-lb  ham,  wash  and  scrape  with  dull  knife.  Put 
it  in  large  kettle  with  tight  cover,  and  pour  over  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Add  whole  cloves,  cinnamon  bark,  parsley,  celery 
leaves,  2  onions,  6  chiles,  2  bay  leaves  and  lemon  peel.  Boil  five 
hours.  Let  cool  over  night  without  uncovering.  Lift  from  liquor 
and  put  rind  side  down  on  large  paper.  With  sharp  knife  shave 
off  all  dark,  smoked  surface.  Lift  into  baking  tin,  rind  side  up, 
and  then  peel  off  rind.  Mix  a  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  one  of 
bread  crumbs  together  and  pour  over  ham,  pressing  very  firmly. 
Stick  in  whole  cloves  all  over  top  surface,  and  pour  one  cup  of 
vinegar  and  water  or  sour  claret  into  pan.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving,  brown  in  oven,  basting  often.  When  cold  this  ham  will 
slice  almost  like  jelly.  MRS.  W.  J.  LAWLESS. 

Beef  Loaf — 

1%  Ibs.  lean  beef  (round  steak)  chopped  fine,  %  pint  cracker 
crumbs,  2  eggs  beaten  light,  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an 
egg  (melted),  1  scant  cup  of  sweet  cream,  %  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
%  teaspoonful  pepper,  %  nutmeg.  Bake  from  %  to  %  of  an  hour. 
Serve  hot  or  cold.  If  you  like  it  richer  add  *4  H)  pork  chopped 
fine  with  the  beef.  MRS.  WHERRY. 

Veal  Loaf — 

Three  pounds  of  veal,  two  pounds  fresh  pork  chopped  very  fine, 
together  with  six  crackers  powdered.  One  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
four  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  each  salt,  pepper 
and  sweet  herbs,  three  eggs.  Mold  into  a  loaf  and  bake  one  hour. 
The  eggs  can  be  omitted.  M.  J.  POOL. 

Baked  Ham — 

Scrub  ham  thoroughly,  put  it  in  cold  water  and  let  water  come 
to  a  boil.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda.  Let  boil  for  three  hours.  Take 
from  water  and  remove  outer  skin.  Plaster  ham  with  paste  made 
of  2  cupa  corn  meal,  2  eggs,  %  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  little  water. 
Stick  full  of  cloves  and  one  allspice.  Place  in  baking  pan  and  sur- 
round with  following  mixture:  1  teacup  of  rice,  2  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of  molasses,  water.  Bake  very  slcwly  two  or 
three  hours.  MRS.  GAYLORD  MARTIN. 


PAG171   NINETEEN 


AP? 

f^  +*e  5**Nf 


'•"/v-r /*"*'>" 

* -   -A. 


BILUS 


Jellied  Cabbage   (from  Boston  Cooking  School)  — 

Soften  half  a  package  (one  ounce)  of  gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of 
cold  water  and  dissolve  in  a  cup  and  three-fourths  of  boiling  water; 
let  cool  a  little,  then  add  three  cups  of  chopped  cabbage,  two  green 
peppers,  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
fourth  cup  of  lemon  juice  and  one-fourth  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix  to- 
gether thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  quart  brick  mold  or  bread  pan. 
When  cold  and  firm  cut  in  cubes  or  squares.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  It  is  prettier  served  with  small 
pieces  of  pimentoes  over  it  too.  MRS.  G.  H.  LETTEAU. 

Cheese  Salad — 

1  cup  of  cottage  cheese  %  cup  of  chopped  black  olives 

%  cup  of  chopped  apples  1-3  cup  of  chopped  pimentoes 

Mix  all  together,  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste,  roll  in 
balls  the  size  of  English  walnuts,  press  half  of  walnut  on  either  side. 
Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

THEODOSIA  B.   CAMP. 
Tomato  Jelly  Salad — 

Cook  1  can  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  paprika  fifteen 
minutes,  strain  and  add  2  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  dissolved 
in   14   cup  cold  water.     Pour  into  individual  molds;   when  cold  and 
firm  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.         MRS.  w.  F>.  WALKER 
Cheese  Salad — 

1      cup  of  grated  American  cheese  3     pimentoes 
3      Xouchatelle  cheese  salt  and  pepper 

10  olives  cut  up 

Cream  cheeses  together,  add  salt  and  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of 
cream,  olives,  pimentoes,  few  drops  of  vinegar.     Roll  into  small  balls. 
Serve  with  lettuce  and  mayonnaise.       MRS.  GAYLORD  MARTIN. 
Chicken  Salad — 

1  cup  of  cold  chicken  cut  in  large  bits 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  up 

%    cup  celery,  cut  up  and  then  dried  on  a  towel 
6     olives  (should  be  cut  up) 

%  cup  mayonnaise  (keep  out  one  spoonful  for  the  top  of  the  salad) 

PAGE   TWENTY-ONK 


Mix  all  lightly  together  and  lay  on  lettuce,  or  cover  with  a 
spoonful  of  mayonaise.  Arrange  the  halves  of  6  stoned  olives  on 
top,  and  put  white  celery  tops  around  the  edge. 

MRS.  J.  C.  PEGLER. 
Tomato  Aspic — 
1     can  of  tomatoes  1     teaspoon  of  salt 

1  slice  of  onion  8     cloves 

2  bay  leaves  a  dash  of  cayenne 
a  few  celery  tips                           %    box  of  gelatine 
slice  of  carrot                                Vz    cup  of  cold  water 

juice  of  half  a  lemon 

Strain  the  tomatoes,  put  in  saucepan  with  onion,  bay  leaves, 
celery  tops,  salt  and  pepper;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  gelatine 
which  has  soaked  two  hours  in  the  cold  water.  Stir  until  well  dis- 
solved. Add  lemon  juice,  strain  and  turn  into  molds.  When  cold 
pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  it.  MISS  A.  C.  LOCKWOOD. 

Hallowe'en  Salad — 

Select  a  good  sized  head  of  cabbage  (large  or  small  according  to 
numbers  to  be  served).  With  a  sharp  knife  remove  the  center, 
leaving  enough  to  form  a  bowl.  Around  the  upper  outside  edge 
stick  whole  cloves,  thus  securing  the  outer  leaves.  Fill  shell  with 
any  good  potato  salad  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  chopped  cab- 
bage and  cubed  cucumber,  and  put  on  the  top  slices  of  boiled  eggs 
and  bright  red  peppers  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  EDNA  STAPLES. 

Egg  Salad — 

Take  one  quart  of  midget  or  sweet  pickles,  one  dozen  hard-boiled 
eggs,  both  chopped  fine;  add  one  pint  of  finely  chopped  cabbage  and 
a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  with  a  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream,  or 
whipped  cream.  MRS.  C.  H.  BAKER. 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 
Cream  Dressing — 

Into  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  thick  cream,  lightly  whipped,  beat 
a  scant  half  cup  of  sugar,  and  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  enough  to 
thin.  A  little  salt.  MRS.  W.  H.  JAMISON. 

Boiled  Dressing — 

yolks  of  three  eggs  Vz   teaspoon  mustard 

2     tablespoons  of  sugar  V2   teaspoon  salt 

1     tablespoon  of  butter  1     cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour  I     cup  vinegar 

Stir  butter,  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  flour  in  a  bowl  until  smooth. 
Add  the  egg  and  beat  well.  Then  add  the  vinegar,  last  of  all  the 
milk.  Boil  eight  or  ten  minutes  until  like  custard,  stirring  most  of 
the  time.  Will  keep  two  weeks  in  a  cool  place. 

MRS.    STEINBERGER. 
French  Dressing  (very  fine)  — 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1     saltspoon  of  salt 
a  little  pepper 

PAGE   TWENTY-TWO 


Pay  Your  Bills 

With  CHECKS  and  you  will  never  have  to  pay  the  second  time 

€[  Every  check  that  you  give  has  to  be  en- 
dorsed by  the  person  receiving  it  before  he 
can  get  the  money  and  when  the  checks 
are  returned  to  you,  you  have  the  best 
kind  of  a  receipt  and  one  that  cannot  be 
disputed.  Your  money  is  always  safe 
when  deposited  in  the  bank  and  is  as  con- 
venient to  use  as  if  you  carried  it  with  you 


OFFICERS  AND  DIRECTORS 

Chas.  S.  Kersting,  President  F.  N.  Hawes 

L.  C.  Torrance,  First  Vice  President  C.  H.  Baker 

A.  D.  Hawks,  Second  Vice  President  N.  H.  Hosmer 

H.  G.  Flint,  Cashier 

First  National  Bank 

"~"~"~  ~~  PAGE   TWENTY-THREE 


I  Sierra  Madre  Public  Library  | 


The  Sierra  Madre  Public  Library  has  been  in  existence 
more  than  twenty  years.  It  was  founded,  and  has  been 
supported,  by  citizens  of  Sierra  Madre,  and  not  by  Andrew 
Carnegie; — a  fact  of  some  distinction  in  these  days. 

The  Library  has  spacious  grounds  and  an  attractive 
building.  Three  thousand  volumes  of  choice  literature  are 
upon  its  shelves.  The  reading-room  receives  the  principal 
magazines  and  periodicals  of  the  day;  and  the  reference 
room  is  equipped  with  cyclopaedias  and  other  reference 
works.  All  these  are  accessible  to  anyone  who  chooses  to 
consult  them.  A  beginning  has  been  made  toward  a  section 
devoted  to  works  referring  to  California  and  the  Pacific 
Coast.  It  is  hoped  in  time  to  make  this  an  important  de- 
partment. 

The  Library  is  open  during  the  afternoon  or  evening  of 
each  dav  and  a  competent  librarian  is  always  in  attendance. 

HENRY  J.  POTTER, 
President  of  Library  Board. 


I 

PAGE  TWENTY-FOUR 


Mix  these  together,  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop  until  you  have 
stirred  in  five  tablespoons.  -Add  three  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  and 
beat  hard  until  thick  MRS.  SUSAN  ARNOLD. 

V>    Qup  vinegar  3      tablespoons  thick  cream 

3      well-beaten  eggs  sweet  or  sour 

2     tablespoons  sugar  ^    teaspoon  mustard 

butter  size  of  walnut 

f%     Boil  the  vinegar,  mix  sugar  and  eggs  together  with  cream  and 
Bustard.     Add  to  the  vinegar,  being  careful  not  to  curdle.     While 
not  put  in  the  butter,  salt  and  paprika.     Add  whipped  cream  before 
serving.  MRS.  J.  E.  FERRY. 

Mayonnaise    Dressing — 

For  one  quart  take  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  beat  very  light.  Add 
oil  by  drops  until  you  have  an  emulsion,  and  then  in  larger  por- 
tions, thinning  with  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Season  with  salt,  paprika 
and  a  little  mustard  and  set  in  icebox.  Beat  together  equal  portions 
of  dressing  and  whipped  cream.  Curdled  mayonnaise  may  be  restored 
by  beating  an  egg  yolk  very  light,  and  beating  in  the  dressing, 
(r.  -sr.  by  drops,  then  by  spoonsful. 


We  produce  Sylmar  Olive  Oil  under  the 
most  favorable  conditions  from  the  finest 
ripe  olives  grown  in  California.  We  own 
the  olive  ranch,  the  trees  and  the  most 
improved  mill.  We  pick,  press  and  bottle 
our  own  product.  In  a  word,  we  pro- 
duce the  highest  quality  of  olive  oil  in 
the  world. 


From  "Blossom  to  Bottle"   on   the 
Largest  Olive  Ranch  in  the  World 


LOS  ANGELES  OLIVE  GROWERS  ASSOCIATION 

Los  Angeles  California 


PAGE   TWENTY-FIVE 


JICV 


vanilla 

cup  of  sugar 

pint  of  double  cream 


Cranberry  Frappe — 

Boil  one  quart  of  cranberries  and  two  cups  of  water  five 
minutes.  Put  through  a  colander,  add  two  cups  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  gelatine  that  has  been  dis- 
solved in  half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Freeze.  Serve  with  turkey. 

MRS.   G.   H.  LETTEAU. 
Cafe  Mousse — 
2     tablespoons  ground  coffee 
%    cup  cold  water 

yolks  of  four  eggs 

Boil  water  and  coffee  until  there  are  two  table  spoonsful  of 
extract.  Whip  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream  and  add  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Whip  a  pint  of  double  cream  very  stiff.  Pour  the  coffee  while  hot 
over  the  eggs,  and  sugar,  lastly  beat  in  well  the  cream.  Pack  in 
a  mold  and  pack  in  ice  for  at  least  three  hours.  MRS.  FERRY. 
Frozen  Plum  Pudding — 

Boil  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  with  *4  cup  of  water  until  it 
forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  this  over  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beating  all  the  while.  When  cold,  mix 
this  thoroughly  with  1  .pint  of  cream,  put  into  freezer  and  turn 
until  mixture  is  partially  frozen,  then  add  1  cupful  of  finely  chopped 
walnuts  or  nickory  nuts,  %  cupful  finely  chopped  raisins,  *4  cupful 
of  candied  cherries  cut  into  small  pieces,  a  little  very  finely  sliced 
citron,  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Freeze  this 
again  for  10  minutes,  turn  into  a  mold,  cover  with  waxed  paper  and 
a  tight  cover  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  or  4  hours. 

Serve  with  claret  sauce  made  as  follows:  Boil  1  cupful  granu- 
lated sugar  and  1  cupful  water  until  it  makes  a  rather  thick  syrup. 
When  cold  add  claret  to  taste  or  about  %  pint.  Serve  the  ice  cream 
in  slices  with  the  sauce  poured  over.  This  recipe  will  amply  serve 
six  people.  KATHERINE  THATCHER  BRAVINDER. 

Florentine  Loaf — 
1     scant  pt.  double  cream  %    pint  strawberry  or  other  fruit 

sugar  to  taste  juice,  sweetened 

vanilla 

PAGE   TWENTY-SEVEN 


Pour  the  fruit  juice  first  into  a  quart  mould,  then  the  whipped 
cream.  Pack  with  ice  and  let  stand  several  hours.  Mashed  fruit  is 
excellent  whipped  into  the  cream.  MRS.  J.  E.  FERRY. 

Apple  Snow — 

Pare  four  large  apples  and  grate.     Add  one-half  cup  of  sugar* 
and   the   whites   of   two   eggs   and   beat   till   white   as   snow.      Add 
flavoring.     Serve  in  orange  cups  with  candied  cherries  on  the  top. 
A  very  dainty  dessert.  HARRIETT  S.  WRIGHT.    M 

Liemon  Sherbet — 

1      qt.  of  milk  juice  of  two  lemons 

1      pt.  of  sugar  juice  of  two  oranges 

Stir  constantly  while  adding  fruit  juice. 

MRS.    M.    D.    WELSHER. 
Maple  Ice  Cream — 

1  pint  of  rich  sweet  cream 

2  tablespoons  of  thick  maple  syrup 

Add  this  to  the  cream  and  partially  freeze.  Add  %  cup  of 
walnuts,  chopped  very  fine.  Freeze  a  little  more.  Add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Freeze  and  pack. 

Maple  syrup  dressing  to  serve  hot  with  the  cream:  1  cup  of 
grated  maple  sugar,  %  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cook  five  minutes. 
Add  four  tablespoons  of  chopped  walnuts  and  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.  Serve  very  hot.  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream — 
1     pint  of  rich  sweet  cream 
1     small  can  of  shredded   pineapple 
1      tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  added  to  the  cream 

Put  this  in  the  freezer  and  partly  freeze,  then  add  the  pineapple 
and  freeze  a   little  more — about   ten   minutes — then   add   the   well- 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  finish  freezing.     Pack  and  let  stand. 
This  is  enough  for  eight  dishes.  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD.      > 

Tutti  Frutti — 

Slice  oranges,  six  bananas  and  a  pineapple  or  use  one  can  pine- 
apple. Lay  the  bananas  in  a  dish,  sugar  slightly  and  cover  with 
chopped  nuts.  Then  a  layer  of  oranges,  sugar  and  nuts,  then  a 
layer  of  pineapple,  sugar  and  nuts,  and  lastly  a  layer  of  orange  and 
strawberries  mixed  lightly.  Place  and  serve  in  individual  dishes 
with  whipped  cream  on  top  and  garnish  with  candied  cherries. 

The  above  makes  an  excellent  salad  for  light  luncheon  if  served 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  portion  of  sweet  salad  dressing  on  top. 
Do  not  sweeten  fruit  as  much  as  for  a  dessert. 

MRS.   H.   G.   FLINT. 
CAKE 
Cake  Making — 

Perhaps  the  one  secret  of  successful  cake  making  is  to  have  the 
oven  moderate.     If  you  can  hold  your  hand  in  the  oven  while  you 
count  thirty,  the  heat  is  right.     Unless  otherwise  directed,  beat  the 
PAGE   TWENTY-EIGHT 


The  City  of  Sierra  Madre  is  supplied  with  an  abundance 
of  the  best  mountain  water  taken  from  tunnels  in  the  solid 
rock  and  conveyed  by  pipes  into  covered  reservoirs  and  from 
thence  distributed  through  twelve  miles  of  pipe  to  its  con- 
sumers. This  supply  is  augmented  by  a  complete  pumping 
plant  which  is  always  available.  The  company  being 
mutual  and  not  for  profit,  all  property  owners  are  interested 
for  its  best  welfare,  and  its  board  of  directors  are  ever  on 
the  alert  to  see  that  all  residents  have  an  ample  supply  of 
pure  water. 

Under  a  recent  analysis  by  our  State  Chemist  at  Berkeley 
the  water  was  pronounced  free  from  all  impurities. 

W.  S.  ANDREWS, 
President  of  Sierra  Madre  Water  Co. 


PAGE  TWENTY-NINE 


butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the 
flour  and  baking  powder  twice  sifted,  and  the  milk.  Beat  thoroughly 
after  each  ingredient,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  whites. 

Potato  Cake — 

4     eggs  MJ  cup  of  milk 

1  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  mashed  potatoes 

2  cups  of  sugar  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves 

2      cups  of  flour  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon               //^ 

1     cup  of  chocolate  1  scant  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

1     cup  of  walnuts  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Mix  potatoes  with  milk  and  yolks  of  the  eggs.  This  is  an  ex- 
cellent cake.  MRS.  A.  D.  HAWKS. 

Cocoanut  Cake — 

1      cup  sugar  2      cups  flour 

%    cup  milk  1*6  teaspoons   baking  powder 

%    cup  corn  starch  butter  size  of  walnut 

yolks  of  two  eggs  vanilla 

Beat  the  eggs  very  lightly,  gradually  add  the  sugar,  then  the 
milk  to  which  the  corn  starch  has  been  added  and  well  mixed,  flour 
and  lastly  the  butter  melted.  Beat  well  together. 

FILLING — Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  a  boiled  frosting,  adding 
the  cocoanut.     I  use  a  coffee  cup  for  measuring. 

MRS.    STEINBERGER. 
Cream  Cake — 

1     cup  sugar  1  %  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1-3  cup  butter  %    cup  milk 

any  flavor         , 

Work  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  milk.  Sift  flour 
three  times;  third  time  add  baking  powder.  Then  mix  all  thoroughly. 

CREAM  FILLING — 1 V2  cups  fresh  rich  milk,  2  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch,  1  yolk  of  egg,  sugar  to  taste  and  flavor. 

The  above  will  make  two  large  layers. 

MRS.   EMMA  H.   CURTIS. 
Strawberry  Cake — 

1     cup  sugar  3     eggs  (beaten  separately) 

1      cup  strawberry  jam  2%  cups  flour 

%    cup  butter  1      teaspoon  soda 

spices  (nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon) 

Bake  in  two  layers.  MRS.   B.  W.  ANDREWS. 

Silver  Layer  Cake — 

1     cup  sugar  1  2-3  cups  flour 

1-3  cup  butter  2      teaspoons   baking   powder 

2-3  cup  milk  %    teaspoon  vanilla 

4     whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  vanilla,  add  the  milk,  then  the 
flour  in  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Fold  in  the 
whites.  CARRIE  BOTTOLF. 

PAGE   THIRTY 


Old-Fashioned  Sponge  Cake — 

4      eggs  1      cup  flour 

1      cup  granulated  sugar  %    teaspoonful  baking  powder 

juice  of  one  good-sized  lemon 

Break  the  eggs,  keeping  the  yolks  and  whites  separate.  Beat  the 
yolks  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  until  the  dish  can  be  turned 
upside  down  and  the  whites  hold  firmly.  Add  the  sugar  to  the 
yolks  and  beat  again  until  light  and  foamy.  Add  the.  lemon  juice. 
Sift  the  flour  twice.  Fold  the  flour  and  whites — do  not  beat — into 
the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  This 
sponge  cake  should  be  eaten  with  hot  coffee  or  chocolate,  served 
with  whipped  cream.  MISS  ANNIS  B.  COFFEY. 

Rice  Cake 

4  eggs  1  cup  butter 

1  cupful  rice  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

To  prepare:  Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  hard.  Add  1 
egg  with  a  little  flour  at  a  time  until  all  are  in.  Bake  about  an  hour. 

MRS.  F.  R.  YERXA. 


BISCUIT,  CAKES  &  PASTRY 

OF  ALL  KINDS 


Are  Easy  to  Make  If  You  Use 

CREAM  PUFF 

BRAND 

SELF-RAISING  FLOUR 


DON'T  BE  PREJUDICED 

TRY  IT 


PAGE   THIRTY-ONE 


Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake—- 
Beat the  yolks  of  4  eggs  together  with  2  cups  of  fine  powdered 
sugar;  stir  in  gradually  1  cup  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  whites  of  4 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  1  cup  of  flour  in  which  2  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder  have  been  stirred,  and  lastly  a  small 
teacupful  of  boiling  water,  stirred  in  a  little  at  a  time.  Flavor,  add 
salt  and  however  thin  the  mixture  may  seem,  do  not  add  any  more 
flour.  Delicious  with  strawberries.  MRS.  W.  P.  CALEY. 

Feather  Cake — 

1      cup  sugar  %    cup  milk 

1     cup  flour  1      good  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1     egg  1      teaspoon   baking  powder 

pinch  of  salt 
Bake  in  two  jelly  tins.  LYDIA  M.  WEBSTER. 

Orange  Cake — 

Two  cups  sugar  beaten  with  4  eggs  not  separated;  beat  till  very 
light.  2y2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  stir 
in  one  cup  of  hot  water  the  last  thing.  Flavor  with  grated  orange 
peel.  When  baked  frost  with  boiled  icing  into  which  the  grated 
rind  of  1  orange  has  been  beaten.  MISS  VANNIER. 

Connecticut  "Election"  Cake — 

3      Ibs.  of  flour  2      eggs 

l%lbs.   of   sugar  1      nutmeg,  grated 

%    Ib.  of  lard  1      tablespoon  powdered  niace 

%    Ib.  of  butter  1  % pints  milk 

1  Ib.  of  raisins  l/2    pint  yeast 

*£    Ib.  of  citron  1      wine  glass  brandy 

1      wine  glass  wine 

Mix  the  flour,  half  the  sugar,  the  lard  and  milk  at  noon,  with 
a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  half  pint  of  water,  or  a 
half  pint  of  yeast  sponge.  After  supper  add  butter  creamed  with 
the  remaining  sugar,  eggs  beaten  light,  fruits,  spice  and  brandy. 
Salt  to  taste.  Beat  all  thoroughly  together  and  cover  for  the  night. 
In  the  morning  lift  with  a  skimmer  into  pans,  as  lightly  as  possible. 
Raise  a  few  minutes  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  45  to  60  minutes. 
When  cool,  ice  with  boiled  icing.  This  will  make  four  good-sized 
loaves,  and  must  be  baked  in  round  tins,  if  kept  to  the  custom.  In 
use  in  our  family  for  over  fifty  years.  MRS.  W.  S.  ANDREWS. 

Mocha  Cake>— 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light  1   heaping  teasyoon  bak.  powder 
1  cup  sugar                                          a  pinch  of  salt 

1   large  cup  flour  flavor  with  vanilla 

Put  on  the  stove  half  cup  of  milk,  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  let 

come  to  a  boil,  and  then  pour  over  the  other  ingredients,  and  beat 

very  light.     Bake  in  two  tins. 

FILLING — One  cup  powdered  sugar  creamed  with  %  cup  of  but- 

PAGE   THIRTY-TWO 


PAGE   THIRTY-THREE 


14 


eggs 

glass 

cups  sour  milk 

rind  and  juipe  of  1  lemon 

Ib    seedless  raisins 

to  citron 


ter;    2   tablespoons  strong  coffee,   2    tablespoons  dry  cocoa.      Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  spread  between  and  on  top  of  cakes. 

MRS.  COPPS. 
Christmas  Fruit  Cake — 

Three  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  let  stand  until 
cake  is  stirred, 
l^cups  white  sugar  l%cups  light  brown  sugar 

3      good  tablespoons  butter 
Cream  butter  and  sugar.     Add: 

1  cup  syrup 
fruit  juice  or  black  coffee 

V2    grated  nujtiteg 

2  teaspoons  allspice 

2      teaspopns  cinnamon 
1     cup^ropped  nuts 

Enough  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Stir  well  and  add  dissolved 
soda.  Bake  one  hour.  Make  two  or  three  weejts  before  using. 
After  cooling,  put  away  in  a  tin  box  .  MRS.  KEYS. 

Solid  Chocolate  Cake — 

2      ounces  chocolate  dissolved  in  5  tablespoons  boiling  water 
%    cup  butter  creamed  %    cup  milk 

1  %  cups  granulated  sugar  l%cups  flour 

4     eggs  \  1     heaping  teaspoon  ,bak.  powder 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  beaten  yolks  of  eggs. 
Then  add  melted  chocolate,  milk  and  flour  into  which  baking  powder 
has  been  sifted.  Give  wljole  a  vigorous  beating.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  carefully  into  mixture,  add  teaspooli  of 
vanilla,  and  mix  quickly  and  lightly  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.   ROBERT   MAHAR. 
Spice  Cake  (no  eggs)  — 
1     cup  granulated  sugar  1 

1      pinch  salt  1 

1     teaspoonful  cinnamon  1 

%    teaspoonful  cloves  1 

%    teaspoonful   nutmeg  2 

1      tablespoonful  butter 
Molasses  Cake — 

1     egg  V 

%    cup  butter  1 

1     teaspoon  soda.  2 

Put  togther  in"  this  <>rder 
and  soda,  flour.       • 
Orange  Cake— 
1     cup  of  sugar 
1     cup  of  milk 
1/6    cup  of  butter 


I 


tablespoonful  molasses 
teacupful  sour  milk 
tablespoonful  soda 
cup  raisins  dredged  with  flour 
cups  flour 

MRS.  S.  C.  COLLINS. 


%   cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  molasses 

2  cups  flour 

Egg,  molasses,  boiling  water,  butter 
MRS.  A.  C.  LOCKWOOD. 


2  %  cups  of  flour 
2      eggs 

2      teaspoons  baking  powder 
1     teaspoon  lemon  extract 
ICING — Grate  the  rind  of  a  firm  orange  into  a  basin,  add  the 


PAGE   THIRTY-FOUR 


Hardware  and  Plumbing 

Dealers  in  Builders'  Hardware,  Stoves,  Granite 
Ware,  Tin  Ware,  Cordage,  Paints  and  Oils,  Pipes 
and  Fittings,  Plumbing  and  Tinning.  Repair 
Work  a  Specialty  &  &  &  &  & 
Sunset  Pasadena  Main  8350  Home  Red  26 

Clark  &  Graham 

Central  Avenue  Sierra  Madre 


S.  H.  SP AFFORD 

^ 
. 
Dealer  in  Harness,  Robes,  Blankets,  Whips,  Sweat 

Pads,  Etc.     Repairing  Neatly  Done.     Telephone 
Black  46.     At  Sierra  Madre  Hardware  Co.  's  Store 


Sierra  Madre  Feed  and  Fuel  Co. 

Wholesale  and    Retail    Dealers   in   Hay,    Grain, 
Wood,  Coal  and  Poultry  Supplies 

SUNSET  MAIN  6213       HOME  BLACK  50 

PAGE   THIRTY-FIVE 


LOOKING    TOWARD    THE     MOUNTAINS 


Knights  of  King  Arthur 


This  boys'  club  was  organized  a  little  over  two  years 
ago  and  now  has  an  active  membership  of  twenty  members, 
boys  of  twelve  years  and  over  being  eligible.  The  growth 
and  work  of  the  club  was  hampered  by  not  having  a  suitable 
meeting  place,  but  last  spring,  sufficient  money  having 
been  raised  by  subscription  and  entertainments,  a  frame 
building  was  erected  on  East  Central  Avenue  on  land 
loaned  by  Mrs.  J.  H.  Wright.  This  is  intended  to  serve  as 
a  club  room  and  gymnasium,  and  will  be  more  completely 
fitted  up  for  the  latter  purpose  as  soon  as  the  small  out- 
standing debt  against  the  building  is  paid.  The  club  is 
not  allied  with  any  church  or  other  organization,  but  is 
controlled  entirely  by  the  boys  themselves  under  the  super- 
vision of  Mrs.  Wright. 


PAGE   THIRTY-SIX 


Juice  of  orange  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  enough  to  give  a  little 
acid  to  the  icing,  and  still  retain  the  flavor  of  orange.  Add  pow- 
dered sugar  until  thick  enough  to  spread  and  keep  firm.  If  cake 
is  baked  in  layers,  use  icing  for  filling,  not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  top 
and  sides.  Will  set  quickly,  if  enough  sugar  is  used. 

MRS.    W.    S.   ANDREWS. 

Crullers — 

1   cup  mashed  potatoes  (salted)       2   tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  milk 

Put  these  in  the  bowl  and  beat  very  light.     Then  add: 

2  eggs  %cup  milk  (beat  in  slowly) 
grating  of  nutmeg                       4     cups  flour  (well  sifted) 

1%  cups  granulated  sugar  2      teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Fry  in  hot  lard.     Roll  in  powdered  sugar  while  warm. 

MRS.  M.  A.  WILLIAMSON. 

Doughnuts — 

1  pint  sugar  %    teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  l/2  tablespoons  melted  butter  2  V2  teaspoons  Royal  bak.  powder 
2     eggs  a/4    teaspoon  nutmeg 

1      pt.  milk  1  %  teaspoons  salt 

flour 

Cream  butter,  add  y2  of  the  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light, 
add  the  sugar  and  eggs,  add  the  milk;  sift  together  baking  powder, 
salt,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  flour.  Add  enough  flour  to 
the  mixture  so  that  you  can  handle.  Keep  the  dough  as  soft  as 
possible.  ELIZABETH  STEINBERGER. 

Crullers — 
1     egg 

1  tablespoonful   olive  oil,   or   melted   lard 

2  teaspoonsful  sifted  sugar 
enough  flour  to  roll 

Mix  oil,  or  lard,  with  sugar,  add  well  beaten  egg,  and  flour.  Sea- 
son with  nutmeg  or  any  desired  flavoring.  Cut,  and  fry  as  dough- 
nuts. Cruller  cutters  can  be  purchased  at  almost  all  first  class 
hardware  stores.  MRS.  HOLAHAN. 

Mocha  Icing — 
1     cup  of  granulated  sugar  1     cup  of  unsalted  butter 

2-3  cup  of  strong  coffee 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  strain  the  coffee  through 
a  cloth  and  add  slowly  while  warm.  Spread  on  cake  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  nuts. 

Omit  coffee  and  add  other  flavoring  for  rich  white  icing. 

THEODOSIA   B.   CAMP. 
Boiled  Frosting — 

1      cup  sugar  2      whites  of  eggs 

1-3  cup  water  pinch  of  salt 

spoonful  of  vinegar 

PAGE   THIRTY-SEVEN 


Boil  sugar  and  water  till  it  strings,  pour  over  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  to  which  vinegar  and  salt  have  been  added.  Beat  until  cool 
enough  to  spread. 

Caramel  Frosting — 

Two-thirds  cup  each  of  dark  and  light  brown  and  white  sugar, 
2-3  cup  cream;  let  boil  5  minutes  and  stir  constantly  while  boiling. 
Stir  after  taking  from  the  stove  till  creamy,  and  when  cool  put  in 

1  tablespoonful  vanilla.  DAISY  E.  HAWKS. 

FANCY  CAKES 

Brownies — 

2  eggs  %    cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  %    Ib  walnuts 

%    cup  butter  vanilla  flavoring 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  and  pour  on  sugar,  add  flour,  then 
eggs.  Bake  thin  in  slow  oven;  cut  while  hot.  MRS.  COPPS. 

Cocoanut  Biscuits — 

1      Ib  flour  %    Ib  sugar 

%    Ib  butter  %    Ib  cocoanut 

Mix  thoroughly  dry,  then  mix  with  2  well-beaten  eggs,  break  into 
little  rough  pellets  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  light  brown. 

.     MRS.  J.  G.  BLUMER. 
Small  Tea  Cakes — 

3  cups  flour  1     cup  sugar 

1     cup  milk  small  piece  of  butter 

3     teaspoons  baking  powder 

Roll  out  as  for  pie  crust,  spread  with  butter,  then  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  roll  up  tight  and  cut  in  slices  not  too  thick — 
bake.  MRS.  VANNIER. 

Walnut  Wafers — 

%    Ib  sugar  %    teaspoon  baking  powder 

%    Ib  walnut  meats,  broken  up       1-3  teaspoon  salt 
3     even  tablespoons  flour  2     eggs 

Beat  the  eggs  and  other  ingredients,  and  lastly  the  walnuts. 
Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake.  MRS.  J.  E.  FERRY. 

Cream  Puffs — 

%   cup  butter  1     cup  flour 

1     cup  water  3     eggs 

First  boil  water,  add  butter,  then  flour.  Let  come  to  a  boil, 
then  let  cool;  stir  in  eggs  one  at  a  time,  then  put  one  tablespoonful 
of  dough  into  each  gem  pan  and  bake. 

CREAM  FOR  PUFFS — Two  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  % 
cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  milk  to  thin.  First  poil  pint  of  milk  in 
double  boiler,  then  add  mixtures,  and  beat  well,  then  add  one  egg, 
and  flavor.  MRS.  W.  E.  WALKER. 

German  Boobies — 

Take  as  much   soft  bread   dough   as  would   make  two   loaves, 

PAGE   THIRTY-EIGHT 


Maximum  Style,  Comfort  and  Service- 
Minimum  Price 

"Queen  Quality"  expresses  every  letter  of  shoe  satisfaction  —  without 
crossing  the  boundaries  of  reasonable  price.  Attractive,  comfortable, 
convincing. 


Full  assortments  of  "Queen  Quality" 
Boots  and  Ox  fords.  Over  One  Hundred 
different  models — including  all  leathers 
and  newest  designs. 


$3.50  and  $4.00 


The  Most  Progressive  Shoe   Concern   of 
the  Pacific  Coast 

You  cannot  make  an  unsatisfactory  purchase  at  our  stores.     Our  guar- 
antees cover  every  point  within  reason — and  are  honestly    backed   up. 


TWO 

461  sotTH  BROADWAY   *    ssa  SOUTH  SPRXNO  STRKBT 


PAGE   THIRTY-NINE 


EPISCOPAL 

CHURCH 

LIBRARY 

CONGREGATIONAL 
CHURCH 


add  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  and  a  little  melted  butter,  mix  well  and 
put  to  rise. 

FILLING 

2      cups  chopped  raisins  1      cup    chopped  currants 

2     cups  chopped  almonds  %    cup    chopped  citron 

1  cup    sugar 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

enough  melted  butter  to  make  a  paste 

When  dough  is  light  roll  out  as  thin  as  blotting  paper,  put  a 
layer  in  a  square  tin  well  buttered.  Spread  on  a  layer  of  filling, 
and  pour  melted  butter  over.  Put  another  layer  of  dough  and 
another  of  filling,  and  more  melted  -butter.  Continue  until  you  have 


Live  Oak  Dairy 

Pure  Milk  and  Cream.  Two 
Deliveries  Daily.  Home  Tele- 
phone Blue  27  

H.  P.  OLSEN 


B.  KRAUSE,  TAILOR 

Ladies'  and  Gentlemen's  Suits  Made  to  Order. 
Dry  Cleaning,  Pressing,  Repairing,  Ladies' 
Garments  a  Specialty.  First  Class  Work  at 
Reasonable  Prices 


PAGE    FOitTY-ONE 


three   or   four   layers;    finish   with    filling   and   a   little   extra   sugar 
and  cinnamon.      Let  rise,  and  cut  in  small   squares  before   baking. 

MISS  GOLDA  NORTON. 
Short  Crust  for  Fruit  Tarts — 

Take  4  ounces  butter  or  lard  and  6  ounces  flour.  Rub  the 
butter  well  into  the  flour,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  To  the  yolk  of 
one  egg  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  a  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Drop  this  into  the  flour 
and  work  it  up  with  as  little  extra  water  as  possible.  To  be  rolle 
out  only  once.  MRS.  F.  P.  CONARD. 

Crisp  Rusks  for  Afternoon  Tea — 

One  Ib  flour,  2  oz.  sugar,  3  oz.  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  egg  and  little  milk  to  make  it  proper  consistency.  Roll  out  not 
too  thin  and  cut  in  small  rounds,  and  when  baked  cut  in  halves 
and  turn  white  sides  uppermost  to  brown  in  oven.  Butter  before 
serving.  MRS.  F.  P.  CONARD. 

Oat  Meal  Cakes — 
1     tablespoon  of  butter  separately) 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  2      teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

2  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  1     teaspoon  vanilla 
2%  cups  of  oatmeal,  uncooked 

Drop  a  small  teaspoonful  on  buttered  pan,  three  inches  apart. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  A  few  chopped  English  walnuts  may  be  added. 

MRS.    NORMAN    BRIDGE. 


You  Need  The  Best 

For  success  with  these  recipes  you 
should  use  only  the  best  and  purest 
ingredients.  The  place  where  you 
can  be  sure  of  what  you  are  getting  is 


RETTS  &   W ELS  HER,  Proprietors 


PAGE   FORTY-TWO 


BREAD 
Nut  Bread — 

1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts      1      cup  (scant)  sugar 
4     cups  wheat  flour  V6    teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sweet  milk  1      egg 
4      teaspoons  baking  powder 

Put  in  baking  tins,  let  rise  %   hour,  bake  about  %  hour. 

MRS.  E.  A.  HOFFMAN. 

Brown  Bread — 

1      large  cup  graham  flour  %    large  cup  sugar 

1      large  cup  wheat  flour  %    teaspoon  salt 

%    large  cup  molasses  1     teaspoon  soda 

1      cup  corn  meal  raisins  if  desired 

Mix  with  enough  sour  milk  or  part  water  to  a  soft  batter.  Cook 
in  uncovered  baking  powder  cans  2  */2  hoprs,  but  with  tight  lid  on 
kettle.  Bake  15  minutes.  MRS.  W.  S.  ANDREWS. 

Brown  Bread — 

l^cups  graham  flour  1     small  cup  black  molasses 

%    cup  wheat  flour  %cup  raisins 

1^  cups  sour  milk  1     egg 

1     cup  corn  meal  1     rounding  teaspoon  soda 

%cup  chopped  walnuts  %  teaspoon  salt 

Steam  two  hours.  MRS.  E.  A.  HOFFMAN. 


Furniture  and  House  Furnishings 


Tents,  Awnings,  Paints,    Oils,    Porch    Curtains 


Reynolds,  Renaker  &  Bergien 
Undertakers 


Home  Telephone  Black  36 


Joseph  J.   Bergien,   Proprietor 


PAGE   FORTY-THREE 


Corn  Bread — 

1      egg  1  cup  flour 

%    cup   sugar  1  cup  corn  meal 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  shortening  melted  in  baking  pan 
Beat  egg,  sugar  and  salt  together,  add  flour  and  corn  meal  into 

which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  and  beat  in  melted  shortening. 

Cream  Biscuits — 

1  pint  milk  1      teaspoonful  sugar 
8     tablespoonsful   flour  a  little  salt 

2  eggs  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg 
Beat  eggs  very  light,   add   to  the  well-mixed   batter.      Bake   in 

gem  pans  or  cups  that  have  been  well  oiled.         MRS.  HOLAHAN. 

Brown  Bread — 

One-half  cup  each  of  flour,  corn  meal,  graham  or  whole  wheat 
flour  and  best  molasses  or  syrup,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  small  level  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  This 
makes  three  loaves,  using  1-lb  baking  powder  cans  filling  half  full. 
Steam  1  y2  hours.  This  is  an  absolutely  perfect  recipe. 

MISS  FANNIE  HAWKS. 


J^heodore  Nie /son's 

Decorating  Establishment 

Fine  European,  Japanese  and 
Domestic    Papers 

Phones  Main  1226 — F  1226 

6l8  South  Spring  St.,  Los  Angeles 


PAGE   FORTY-FOUR 


Pop  Over 

One  pint  flour,  1  pt.  milk,  2  eggs.  Grease  iron  gem  pans  and 
put  into  the  oven  to  become  very  hot.  Beat  the  eggs  (without 
separating)  until  very  light.  Add  to  them  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the 
milk;  then  pour  this  gradually  on  to  the  flour,  beat  well.  Fill  cups 
half  full  of  the  mixture.  Bake  in  very  hot  oven  about  thirty  min- 
utes. Oven  should  be  from  430  to  450  degrees  Fah.  Do  not  look 
at  them  for  ten  minutes.  ELIZABETH  STEINBERGER. 

Rye  Gems — 

1      cup  rye  flour  or  meal 
1     cup  wheat  flour   (sifted  together) 
1     tablespoon  sugar 
%    teaspoon  salt  (mix  thoroughly) 
1     egg,  well  beaten 
1      cup  sour  milk  or  cream  into  which  beat 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  soda  until  it  foams 

Mix  all  together  and  if  too  stiff  add  more  sour  milk.  Bake  in 
gem  pans.  MRS.  DICKSON. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits — 
3     cups  flour  %    teaspoon  salt 

2  heaping  teaspoons  bak.  powd.     1-3  cup  of  butter  or  shortening 
1      cup  of  milk 

Have  the  salt  and  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  rub  in  the  butter, 
and  stir  in  the  milk.  Work  until  smooth,  roll  very  thin,  spread 
with  melted  butter,  double  together  and  cut  into  small  biscuits. 
Bake.  CARRIE  BOTTOLF. 

A  Breakfast  Dish — 
1      pint  of  cofnmeal  %    teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoonsful   flour  Vfe    teaspoon  baking  powder 
1     tablespoonful  molasses                 2     eggs 

Mix  cornmeal  and  flour,  and  scald  with  enough  hot  milk  to 
thoroughly  moisten;  to  this  add  eggs  well  beaten,  molasses,  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Drop  batter  from  tablespoon  into  boiling  lard; 
brown;  serve  with  maple  syrup.  MRS.  HOLAHAN. 


Alphonso  De  Maio 

First-class  Shoe  Repairing          Shoes  Made  to  Order 

Baldwin  Avenue  near  Central 


PAGE   FORTY-FIVE 


CATHOLIC    CHAPEL 


Postal  Receipts  Growing 


The  figures  showing  business  done  by  postoffices  are  be- 
coming accepted  more  and  more  as  a  reliable  source  of 
information  as  to  the  growth  and  cities  and  smaller  com- 
munities. It  is  therefore  of  interest  to  note  the  increase 
in  the  business  done  by  the  Sierra  Madre  Postoffice  as  set 
forth  in  the  following  statment: 

costal  receipts  for  quarter  ending  Jan.,  '07,  were  $575.10 
Postal  receipts  for  quarter  ending  Jan.,  '09,  were   $917.62 

Sierra  Madre  being  a  residential  community,  the  increase 
in  postal  receipts  indicates  a  rapid  growth  in  the  number 
of  patrons  of  the  office. 

CABOT  A.  YERXA, 

Postmaster. 


j 

1 


PAGE   FORTY-SIX 


HE  Press  on  which  this  book  was  printed 
and  from  which  comes  the  SlERRA  MADRK 
NEWS  every  Friday  &  &  & 


*-. 


kECIPE  for  use  when  you  want  good  print- 
ing— don't  get  into  a  ste*w  over  it.  Tell 
your  troubles  to  us.  We  will  fix  up  something 
good.  If  you  don't  like  the  looks  of  it  we  will 
make  pi  of  it  and  try  again.  But  be  sure  of  this 
— we  will  please  you  X  ^  Ng  v< 

THE  NEWS  PRINTERY 

PAGE   FORTY-SEVEN 


Short  Bread — 

4      Ibs.  flour  2      Ibs.  butter 
%    Ibs.  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly  together  and  knead  a  good  while.  The  lightness 
depends  upon  the  kneading.  Roll  out  %  inch  thick  and  bake  in 
shallow  pans.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  dessert.  This  will 

keep  for  a  long  time.  MRS.  JOHN  HART. 

Corn  Gems — 

2      cups  flour  Yz    cup  butter 

2     cups  corn  meal  2      teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  3      eggs 

2  cups  sweet  milk  or  water  (better  if  beaten  separately) 
If  mixture  should  be  too  thick  add  a  little  more  milk.     Bake  in 

iron  gem  pans  if  you  can.  MRS.  JOHN  HART. 

Brown  Bread — 

l^cups  cornmeal  2      cups  sour  milk 

l%cups  graham  flour  1      cup  molasses 

1      cup  rye  flour  1      teaspoon   (large)   soda 

1     cup  raisins  salt  to  taste 

Bake  slowly  one  hour.  MRS.  S.  H.  HOLMES. 


€|  One  thing  the  ladies  neglected  to  men- 
tion when  writing  the  recipes  in  this  book 
was  to  purchase  your  meat  at  the  Cen- 
tral Market 

€J  We  personally  select  all  our  fresh  meats 
and  know  we  carry  the  hest 
CJ  Give  us  your  business  and  we  will  serve 
you  promptly  and  well 

SIERRA  MADRE  CENTRAL  MARKET 
J.  G.  SLAYTON  J.  D.  RASMUSSEN 


PAGE   FORTY-EIGHT 


PIES 

Lemon  Filling  for  Cake  or  Pie- 
Make  a  custard  of  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup 
white  sugar,  3  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  2,  and  1  cup  boiling 
water.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and  add  4  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  stirred 
free  from  lumps  and  a  little  water.  When  done  add  a  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg.  If  used  for  pie,  make  a  marangue  of  the  whites 
of  the  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  Vz  teacupful  of  sugar; 
spread,  return  to  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

LAURA  H.   STEVENSON. 

Mock  Mince  Pie— — 

4     soda  crackers,  rolled,  not  fine 

l%cups  sugar 

1     cup  fruit  juices  from  canned  fruit  and  a  little  molasses 

1-3  cup  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 

1  cup  raisins  seeded  and  chopped 
%cup  butter 

2  eggs  well  beaten 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  adding  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste.  This  will  make  two  pies. 

MRS.  M.  E.  ENTWISTLE. 

New  England  Apple  Pie—- 
Line a  deep  plate  with  paste  and  heap  up  with  apples  peeled 
and  sliced.     Put  on  top  crust  but  do  not  press  down.     When  done 
remove  top  crust  and  season  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  butter  the  size 
of  walnut,  with  grated  nutmeg  on  top. 

Lemon  Pie— 

Three-fourths  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  reserving  white  of  1  for  frost- 
ing; 1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  juice 
of  2  small  lemons  or  one  large  one,  1  cup  hot  water.  Cook  until 
thick.  Line  pie  plate  with  rich  crust  and  bake  and  when  done  pour 
in  jelly,  cover  with  frosting  and  brown  in  oven. 

MRS.  P.  BIEDERMAN. 

Pumpkin  Pies — 

For  two  pies,  line  two  pie  plates  with  paste  and  make  filling  as- 
follows:  ll/2  pints  milk,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  of  pumpkin 
after  it  is  boiled  and  strained  through  sieve,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoons ground  ginger,  2  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon,  pinch  salt.  Stir 
all  together  and  fill  pies.  Bake  slowly  until  a  rich  color. 

MRS  I.  N.  WARD. 

PUDDINGS 

English  Plum  Pudding — 

1  cup  beef  suet  chopped  fine  %    nutmeg  grated 

2  cups  raisins  -/z    teaspoon  allspice 

2     cups  currants  %    teaspoon  cinnamon 

PAGE   FORTY-NINE 


ALLURING     MOUNTAIN     STREAMS 


1      cup  flour  %    teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1     cup  bread  crumbs  or  cornmeal  1     teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  peel  Vz  orange  chopped  fine 
%    Ib  citron  cut  fine  4     eggs  well  beaten 

}fe    cup  wine  or  brandy  peel  of  L/z  lemon  choped  fine 

Boil  steady  four  hours.  LYDIA  M.  WEBSTER. 

Adel's  Iiemon  Souffle— 

3     eggs  grated  rind  %  large  lemon 

3     teaspoons  sugar  1     teaspoon  flour 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  very  dry.  Beat  the  sugar 
into  the  yolks,  add  the  grated  rind  and  whites  and  lastly  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Bake  in  buttered  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

Johnie's  Delight — 

2  cups  of  dry  bread  crumbs  %    teaspoon  of  soda 
1     cup  sweet  milk                               1      egg 

%    cup  molasses  salt 

%    cup  melted  butter  juice  of  lemon 

%    cup  raisins  spice  to  taste 

Steam  two  hours  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

MRS.  J.  E.  FERRY. 


A    S.  MEAD 


Real  Estate,  Insurance,  Loans,  Rentals  and 
Notary  Public.  We  have  the  Largest  and 
Best  Realty  List  in  Sierra  Madre  .  .  . 

OME  TELEPHONE  EXCHANGE  2 


rating  Block  SIERRA  MADRE 


PAGE   FIFTY-ONE 


NOTES 


PAGE   FIFTY-TWO 


Steamed  Fruit  Pudding — 

One  heaping  cupful  dry  bread  crumbs,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup 
currants  and  raisins  mixed  and  chopped  with  one  large  sour  apple, 
half  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  molasses,  half  cup  sweet  milk,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  each  kind  of  spice,  half  cup  of  flour.  Melt  the  butter 
and  mix  with  the  crumbs,  stir  the  soda  in  with  the  molasses  and 
mix  the  baking  powder  with  flour.  Steam  in  cups  for  one  hour. 
This  serves  four  persons. 

Sauce  for  Fruit  Pudding — 

One  tablespoonful  butter,  half  cup  sugar,  one  cupful  water,  one- 
teaspoonful  flour.  Boil  the  sugar,  water  and  flour,  add  butter  and 
flavor  with  nutmeg.  MRS.  ROBERT  MAHAR. 

Pineapple  Pudding — 

1      lb  can  grated  pineapple  1      box  gelatine 

1  cup  sugar  1     cup  Eng.  walnuts,  chopped  fine 

2  cups  water  1      cup  whipped  cream 

To  prepare:  Heat  pineapple  with  water  and  sugar.  Soak 
gelatine  in  one  cup  of  water  for  two  minutes,  then  add  to  hot  pine- 
apple. Set  to  cool  and  when  it  begins  to  harden,  stir  in  cup  of 
whipped  cream  and  English  walnuts.  Set  to  harden  over  night  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  MRS.  CABOT  A.  YERXA. 

Suet  Pudding — 

1     cup  suet  chopped  fine  1      level  teaspoonful  soda 

1     cup  raisins  1     teaspoonful  cinnamon 

1     cup  sour  milk  1     teaspoonful  cloves 
1     cup  molasses  flour  to  mix  stiff 

Steam  two  hours.  Have  water  boiling  before  putting  steamer 
on.  Any  sauce  desired.  MRS.  S.  C.  COLLINS. 

Graham  Pudding — 

1%  coffee  cups  graham  flour  1      egg 

%  coffee  cup  molasses  1      level  teaspoonful  soda 

%  coffee  cup  butter  %cup  raisins 

%  coffee  cup  sweet  milk  %cup  currants 

Salt  and  spice  to  taste.     Steam  2  %   or  three  hourb. 

MRS.    H.   J.   POTTER. 

Peach  Short  Cake — 

%  cup  of  butter  %cup  milk 

1      egg  2      cups  flour  (scant) 

%cup  sugar  2      teaspoons  baking  powder 

pinch  of  salt 

Put  flour  first  in  the  bowl,  baking  powder,  sugar,  milk,  butter  and 
egg.  Give  one  good  stir;  if  the  spoon  will  stand  straight  in  the 
mixture  it  is  stiff  enough.  After  cake  is  baked  cut  half.  Cover 
the  layers  with  sliced  peaches.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

MRS.  M.  A.  WILLIAMSON. 
PAGE   FIFTY-THREE 


Strawberry  Shortcake — 

3      cups  of  flour  2      tablespoons  of  butter 

3      teaspoons  baking   powder  I      cup  rich  milk 

Sift  flower  and  baking  powder  three  times.  Rub  in  the  butter 
so  thoroughly  that  the  mixture  is  perfectly  fine.  This  will  take 
five  minutes.  Stir  the  milk  in  quickly.  This  will  make  a  soft 
dough.  Dredge  with  flour  and  roll  out  about  an  inch  thick.  Bake 
in  quick  oven.  When  done,  split  the  cake  apart  and  butter  both 
sides.  Put  a  thick  layer  of  strawberries  cut  in  two  and  mixed  with 
powdered  sugar  between  layers,  and  spread  whipped  cream  on  top, 
decorated  with  whole  strawberries.  MRS.  W.  H.  McGILL. 

Raisin  Puffs — 
2      eggs  1     cup  of  milk 

V&cup  butter  2      cups  flour 

2      tablespoons  sugar  3     teaspoons  baking  powder 

1      cup  of  raisins  cut  in  pieces 

Steam  one  hour.     Makes  ten  cups  half  full. 

SAUCE 
1      egg  %    cup  sugar 

1     tablespoon  flour  or  corn  starch 

Add  boiling  water  to  thicken.     Any  flavoring  preferred. 

MRS.   ROBERT  MAHAR. 

Puffs,  AVith  Orange  Sauce — 

%  cupful  butter  1      cupful  sugar  (granulated) 

1  cupful  milk  1      cupful  of  powdered  sugar 

2  cupsful   flour  3      eggs 

2      teaspoonsful  baking  powder       2      oranges  (rind  and  juice) 

Grate  the  rind  from  the  oranges,  squeeze  the  juice  upon  the 
rind  and  set  away  until  needed  to  finish  the  sauce.  Beat  the  butter 
to  a  cream,  gradually  add  the  granulated  sugar,  and  when  the 
cream  is  well  beaten,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  well, 
add  the  milk  and  then  stir  in  the  flour,  with  which  the  powder  has 
been  mixed.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  well  buttered  muffin  pans. 
While  the  puffs  are  baking,  make  the  sauce.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  stiff,  and  gradually  add  the  powdered  sugar  and  then  the 
orange  juice  and  rind.  The  sauce  is  then  ready  to  use.  Turn  the 
puffs  out  on  a  flat  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 

MRS.  CARLTON  J.  PEGLER. 

VEGETABLES 

When  Italian  spaghetti  or  pastes  are  mentioned  in  recipes,  the 
domestic  brands  may  be  substituted,  as  they  will  be  found  of  equal 
value  in  quality,  and  are  greatly  superior  from  the  standpoint  of 
cleanliness  in  manufacture. 
Macaroni  and  Cheese — 

Put%    Ib   of  macaroni   into  boiling  water  with   one  teaspoonful 

of  salt,  boil  three  minutes,  place  in  fireless  cooker  for  eight  hours. 

To  one  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes  add  one  red  chili  pepper,  and  salt 

to  taste.      Drain  macaroni,  place  layer  in  baking  dish,  add  bits  of 

PAGE   FIFTY-FOUR 


SIERRA  MADRE  LODGE,    F.  AND  A.  M. 

Stated  meeting  nights,  First  Tuesday  of  each  month  in    their    new   hall 
in  the  Woman's  Club  House.     All  Masons  welcome. 

OFFICERS 

W.  M.,  J.  Hanselman;  S.  W.,  M.  H.  Bridle;  J.  W.,  W.  J.  Lawless;  S.  D.,  Wm. 
Deutsch;  J.  D.,  M.  D.  Welsher;  S.  S.,  G.  H.  Letteau;  J.  S.,  W.  E.  Bechtel- 
heimer;  Treasurer,  H.  G.  Flint;  Chaplain,  J.  A.  Osgood;  Marshal,  T.  D. 
Veon;  Tyler,  F.  Beterman;  Secretary,  S.  H.  Spafford. 


S.  R.  G.  TWYCROSS 

Real  Estate  -  Rentals  -  Insurance  -  Notary  Public    -    Special 
Delivery  -  Office  Telephone  Black    11;     Residence    Green   2 


PAGE   FIFTY-FIVE 


butter  and  grated  cheese,  and  cover  with  tomatoes;  do  this  until 
dish  is  full.  Omit  the  tomato  sauce  from  top  layer,  cover  macaroni 
thickly  with  grated  cheese  and  butter.  Bake  %  hour. 

MRS.   CRISP. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant — 

4      large  egg  plants  2      tablespoons  cream 

4      tablespoons  cracker  crumbs        2      tablespoons   butter 

Cut  egg  plants  in  two  and  boil  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water. 
Drain,  scoo  )  out  insides  and  chop  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  butter,  crumbs  and  cream,  put  back  into  shells,  and  bake  slowly 
for  forty  minutes.  MRS.  E.  A.  HOFFMAN. 

Baked  Stuf'ed  Cyinbaline  or  Summer  Squash — 

Cook  th?  same  as  stuffed  egg  plant. 

Tomato  FritU   s — 

To  one  can  tomatoes  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  then  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  by  spoonfuls  in  pan 
of  hot  fat,  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  ELIZABETH  S.  DIETZ. 

A  Japanese  Method  of  Cooking  Rice — 

Soak  one  cup  of  good  head  rice  in  one  cup  of  cold  water  twenty 
minutes.  Drain  and  boil  in  one  cup  of  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes 
over  a  hot  fire,  then  five  minutes  over  a  very  slow  fire  until  the  rice 
is  dry.  J.  MAXDAI. 

Escalloped  Corn — 

1  can  corn  2      cups  of  milk 

2  eggs  1      tablespoonful  of  butter 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bake  in  oven  twenty  minutes. 

(Grated  fresh  corn  is  superior  to  canned  corn.   ) 
Escalloped  Squash — 

Prepare  summer  squash  and  boil  until  tender;  pour  off  the 
water  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  thoroughly  mash.  Place  in  baking  pan  and  cover  with 
a  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  crumbs.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper  and  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  until  brown. 
Cuban  Beans — 

MRS.    C.    H.    BAKER. 
1      quart  of  Spanish  beans  9     dry  red  chili  peppers 

3  to  4  Ibs.  real  fat  ham  shank       7      good  sized  onions 
1      teaspoon  dry  mustard  mixed 

To  prepare:  Wash  beans  thoroughly,  place  in  large  kettle  with 
ham  shank  and  cover  well  with  cold  water.  Remove  the  seeds  from 
red  peppers  and  cut  peppers  in  half.  Add  these  to  beans.  Then 
slice  onions  quite  small  and  place  in  with  beans.  Add  the  mustard  just 
before  ready  to  serve  beans  and  stir  in  thoroughly.  Before  serving 
ham,  remove  the  rind.  Cook  five  hours  over  a  slow,  steady  fire. 

MRS.  CABOT  A.  YERXA. 
PAGE   FIFTY-SIX 


REMEMBER  THE  ADVERTISERS 

Residents  of  Sierra  Madre  are  reminded 
that  the  stocks  of  goods  carried  by  out 
local  stores  are  attractive  and  complete. 
More  frequent  investigation  of  them  is 
recommended  to  club  members  espec- 
ially. It  should  be  remembered  that 
this  book  is  made  possible  by  the  lib- 
erality of  the  advertisers  and  the  mer- 
chants are  the  ones  on  whom  fall  most 
of  the  burdens  in  support  of  the  com- 
mercial and  civic  enterprises  of  the  city. 
COOK  BOOK  COMMITTEE. 


BELLCRESCENT  SODAS 


Better  than  the  crackers   you 
THOUGHT  were  best 


Sold  under  Mission,  Star  and 

Angeles  Brands.    Made  by 
Kahn-Beck  Co.        Los  Angeles 


PAGE   FIFTY-SEVEN 


Creamed  Cabbage — 

1      small  cabbage  1      e^g 

1  tablespoon  butter  %  cup  cream 

2  tablespoons   vinegar 

Chop  fine  and  boil  cabbage  in  salted  water  until  tender  and. 
drain.  Beat  the  egg  very  light,  and  add  the  cream,  beating  thor- 
oughly, then  stir  the  vinegar  in  slowly,  add  to  the  cabbage  and 
cook  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  boil.  MRS.  E.  A.  HOFFMAN. 

StuflVd  IJell  Pen-ers — 

Wash  in  cold  water,  then  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of 
peppers,  remove  seeds  and  white  membrane;  fill  with  cooked  maca- 
roni which  has  been  mixed  with  tomato  sauce,  well  seasoned  and 
strained.  Grate  cheese  over  the  tops  after  filling  with  the  macaroni. 
Put  in  baking  pan,  add  a  small  amount  of  water  and  piece  of  butter. 
Bake  slowly  abort  one-half  an  hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes  with 
the  water  in  the  pan.  MRS.  CARLTOrf  J.  PEGLER. 

Baked  Bears  AVith  Tomato — 

One  quart  of  dry  beans  soaked  over  night  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water.  In  the  morning  drain  off  water  and  put  on  to  boil  with 
one-half  pound  salt  pork.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  drain  off  water 
and  add  hot  water  and  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Then  turn  into 
baking  pan  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  salt  and  papper  to 
taste.  When  nearly  don*3  turn  one  cup  of  tomato  juice  over  the  top 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  four  or  five  hours. 

MRS.   M.  E.  NICHOLS. 
Corn  Fritters — 
7      soda  err  ckers  3      eggs 

1  can  corn  salt  and  paprika 

Roll  crackers  and  add  to  beaten  yolks  and  corn.  Beat  well. 
Season  to  taste,  stir  in  beaten  whites  and  drop  by  small  spoon  into 
deep  fat.  Excellent  with  chicken  gravy  MRS.  M.  WEAVER. 

Boston  Baked  Beans — 

In  bottom  of  bean  pot  place  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  and  a  small 
onion.  Pour  in  beans  which  have  been  parboiled  and  then  chilled 
with  cold  water.  Lay  on  top  one-fourth  pound  piece  of  pork,  and 
sprinkle  over  this  one-half  teaspoonful  of  ground  mustard.  Add 
one-third  teacupful  of  molasses  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Bake 
slowly  for  six  hours  (no  longer).  Replenish  with  hot  water  when 
needed.  To  brown  well,  remove  cover  from  pot  during  last  hour 
of  baking.  GEORGINE  B.  PERRY. 

Celery  au  Gratin — 

2  cups  stewed  celery  2-3  cup  cheese  cut  fine 
1 1/2  cups  milk 

Put  celery  in  baking  tin.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  the  milk  and 
a  little  flour.  Add  cheese  and  season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and 
pour  over  the  celery.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

MRS.  MARGARET  STERNBERG. 

PAGE   FIFTY-EIGHT 


QUALITY  PAYS  1OO  PER  CENT 

Does  your  morning  cup  of  coffee  or  your  evening  cup  of 
tea  mean  much  to  you?     Make  it  mean    more    by    using 

CHASE  &  SANBORN'S    SUPERIOR  QUALITIES 

S.  R.  MORRIS,  SOLE  AGENT 


Get  Kodaks  and  Supplies,  Stationery,  Magazines,  at 

DOUCET'S 

Opposite  P.  E.  Depot.         Sunset  Main  6021;  Home  Green  8 


C.  R.  HILDEBRAND 

Electric  Fixtures  and  Supplies.     Bicycle 
Repairing  and  Sundries.     Phone  Green  22 

ELECTRICAL  CONTRACTOR 


S.    D.    TOWNE 


General  Blacksmithing  and  Horse  Shoeing 
Phone  Red  7  Mariposa  Avenue 


PAGE   FIFTY-NINE 


Potatoes  au  Gratin — 

Cook  the  same  as  celery  au  gratin,  using  two  cups  cookt-d  po- 
tatoes cut  fine  in  place  of  celery.  MRS.  M.  STERNBERG. 

Rice  au  Gratin — 

Cook  the  same  as  celery  au  gratin,  using  two  cups  of  cooked 
rice  in  place  of  celery. 

Creamed  Oyster  Plant — 

Wash,    scrape    and    put    at    once    into    cold    water;    cut    in    inch 
slices,  cook   in  boiling  salt  water  until   soft,   drain  and   add   cream 
thickened  with  a  little  flour. 
Salsify  Fritters — 

Cook  oyster  plant  as  for  creamed  oyster  plant.      Mash,   season 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  shape  in  small  flat  cakes;  roll  in  flour 
and  saute  in  butter. 
Parsnip  Fritters — 

Prepare  parsnips  the  same  as  for  salsify  fritters. 
Escallojied  Potatoes — 
12    potatoes  sliced  thin  1      small  onion 

Butter  a  baking  dish  and  place  a  layer  of  potatoes  in  the  bottom, 
dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  add  a  little  onion  cut  very  fine, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  then  another 
layer  of  potatoes,  etc.,  until  dish  is  full.  Pour  milk  or  cream  over 
the  potatoes.  Cover  and  bake  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  then 
remove  cover  and  brown.  MRS.  CRISP. 

String  Beans — 

Remove    strings   and    snap    or    cut    in    one    inch    pieces.      Wash, 
and  cook  in  boiling  water  from  one  to  three  hours.     Add  salt  last 
half   hour   of  cooking.      Drain,   season   with   butter   and   salt.      Add 
cream  if  desired. 
Brussels  Sprouts — 

Pick  over,  remove  wilted  leaves  and  soak  in  cold  water  fifteen 
minutes.     Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  minutes.     Drain  and 
serve  with  melted  butter  or  white  sauce. 
Svveet  Potatoes  au  Gratin — 

Boil  in  clear  salt  water  until  tender;  drain  off  the  water;  peel 
and  cut  in  small  squares.  Put  in  baking  pan  alternate  layers  of 
potatoes  and  grated  cheese,  with  bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Pour  on  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
thirty  minutes.  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD. 

Sweet  Potatoes  Stuffed — 

Bake  six  good-sized  potatoes;  when  done  cut  the  top  off  and  with 
a  spoon  scoop  out  the  potatoes  into  a  hot  bowl;  mash  fine  and  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one-half  cup  of  hot  cream,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  until  very  light;  then  add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Fill  the  skins  with  this  mixture  and  put  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD. 

PAGE  SIXTY 


Bank  Reflects  Prosperity 

3W§«i><i«<t*i'^^ 

The  First  National  Bank  of  Sierra  Madre  received  its 
charter  from  the  Comptroller  of  the  U.  S.  Government  May 
25th,  1907,  and  opened  for  business  June  17th,  1907.  It 
is  said  that  the  growth  of  a  city  is  shown  by  the  increase 
in  the  bank  deposits,  and  such  being  the  case  the  officers 
take  pleasure  in  submitting  the  following: 

At  the  close  of  business  August  22nd,  1907,  the  first  re- 
port to  the  Comptroller,  the  Loans  and  Discounts  were 
$23,560.55;  Deposits  $23,155.61;  Total  Assets  $55,092.61. 

At  the  close  of  business  Dec.  2nd,  1909,  the  assets 
were  $127,728,  an  increase  of  130  per  cent;  Deposits  $75,- 
681.20,  an  increase  of  226  per  cent;  Loans  and  Discounts 
$58,883.62.  This  showing  is  the  more  gratifying  when  we 
consider  the  fact  that  the  recent  financial  stringency  oc- 
curred during  the  past  two  years. 

On  July  1st,  1909,  this  bank  declared  its  first  semi- 
annual dividend  and  also  set  aside  a  substantial  amount 
to  its  Surplus  Fund.  Careful  management  and  satisfied 
depositors  are  shown  by  the  above  figures.  On  Dec.  1st, 
1909,  the  bank  announced  the  opening  of  its  new  Interest 
Department,  in  which  Department  sums  of  one  dollar  and 
upwards  are  received,  not  subject  to  check,  and  on  which 
4  per  cent  interest  is  paid  semi-annually. 

H.    G.    FLINT, 

Cashier. 

4»mi§*»§*i#<i^ 


PAGE   SIXTY-ONE 


Stuffed  Potatoes — 

Cook  same  as  stuffed  sweet  potatoes,  using  large  white  potatoes 
in  place  of  sweet. 
Brandy  Sweet  Potatoes — 

Take  medium  size  sweet  potato.  Boil  till  tender,  then  peel, 
slice  and  put  in  kettle,  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  of  brandy.  Simmer  45  minutes  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  serve.  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes — 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  beat  together 
until  light;  make  in  small  balls;  roll  in  eggs,  then  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  MRS.  S.  L.  ARNOLD. 

Steamed  Cucumbers — 

-  Pare  cucumbers  so  none  of  the  green  is  left  on  them,  then  cut 
into  strips  lengthwise  and  place  in  a  dish  and  steam  until  tender. 
Serve  with  Hollondaise  sauce,  made  as  follows:  Cream  one-half 
cupful  butter;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time  and  beat 
well;  then  add  salt  and  pepper  and  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  water; 
cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  the  sauce  thickens; 
then  add  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Remove  as  soon  as  this  is  added 
and  pour  over  the  cucumbers.  MRS.  CARLTON  J.  PEGLER. 

SUPPER  DISHES 
Crab  Meat  a  la  Carl  ing  — 

1      Ib  fresh  crab  meat  shredded       2      oz.  butter 
1      piiu  of  sweet  cream  yolks  of  3  eggs 

1      wine  glass  of  sherry 

To  prepare:  Heat  crab  meat  in  cream,  let  come  to  a  boil  but 
do  not  let  it  boil.  Thicken  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  butter.  Season 
to  taste,  add  glass  of  sherry  and  serve  on  crisp  buttered  toast  or  in 
pattie  shells.  MRS.  F.  R.  YERXA. 

Crustrata — 

Cut  medium  thick  slices  of  bread,  which  butter  slightly.  Then 
cut  thin  slices  of  cheese,  which  place  between  slices  of  bread.  Fry 
in  cutter  until  a  light  brown.  Remove  instantly  and  serve  with 
tomato  sauce,  or  with  a  sauce  made  with  anchovy  paste. 

MRS.  A.  B.   HEISKELL. 

Sabbioni — 

One  egg  per  person.  Beat  separately,  adding  a  level  teaspoonful 
of  granulated  sugar  to  both  yolks  and  whites.  Then  beat  the  yellow 
into  the  whites.  Next  heat  one  full  tablespoonful  of  good  port  wine 
with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Be  most  careful  not  to  boil.  Beat 
thoroughly  into  this  the  eggs.  Serve  immediately  in  sherbet  glasses. 

MRS.   A.   B.   HEISKELL. 

Chicken  a  la  King — 

Parboil  one  chicken,  after  which  cut  into  dices,  using  all  white 
meat  if  possible.     Next  make  a  cream  sauce,  one  full  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  of  flour,  adding  one  pint  of  milk,  then  the  chicken. 
PAGE   SIXTY-TWO 


Season  well  and  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg.     Stir  thoroughly. 
Before  taking  from   the  fire  add- one   full   tablespoonful   of  sherry, 
wine.     Lay  strips  of  pimentoes  on  top  of  chicken  and  serve  in  chafing 
dish.  MRS.  A.  B.  HEISKELL. 

Mosquitoes — 

Remove  the  bones  from  one  can  of  sardines.  Add  a  little  lemon 
juice.  Mash  thoroughly.  Wrap  a  half  slice  of  bacon  about  each 
spoonful  of  the  mixture.  Place  in  a  pan  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
bacon  is  done.  Serve  on  crackers  on  which  cheese  has  been  grated 
and  melted  by  putting  in  the  oven.  MRS.  E.  S.  STILSON. 

Rinctum  Tiddy — 
1      tablespoon  butter  1     tablespoon  chopped  onion 

Let  this  boil  up.  Then  add  one  quart  of  tomatoes  that  have 
had  the  liquor  strained  off.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes;  add  one  well- 
beaten  egg;  add  one  pound  of  cheese  cut  very  fine.  After  cheese 
has  melted  add  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  Worcestershire  sauce  to 
taste.  Pour  over  squares  of  toasted  bread.  This  can  be  served 
instead  of  welsh  rarebit.  MRS.  E.  S.  STILSON. 

Chafing  Dish  Recipe— 
1     cupful  of  shrimp  1     can   of  tomatoes 

buttered  toast 

Shred  shrimp  and  marinate  in  French  dressing  for  an  hour. 
Heat  tomatoes  in  chafing  dish;  add  shrimp,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
on  hot  buttered  toast.  MRS.  GAYLORD  MARTIN. 

EGG  DISHES 
Escalloped  Eggs— 

Boil  eggs  until  hard,  slice  and  put  a  layer  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish;  add  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
pieces  of  butter;  then  add  another  layer  of  sliced  eggs,  and  continue 
as  before  until  the  dish  is  moderately  full.  Add  sufficient  milk  to 
make  quite  moist.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  MRS.  C.  H.  BAKER. 
Baked  Eggs — 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  drop  in  a  sufficient  number  of  eggs  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  pan,  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  cream  to  each 
egg.  Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  all,  and  drop  a  piece  of  butter 
on  each  egg.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  white  of  eggs  is  set. 

MRS.  C.   H.   BAKER. 
Deviled  Eggs  in  Jelly — 

Boil  eggs  until  hard.  Remove  shells  and  cut  in  two  the  long 
way.  Remove  yolks,  mash  them  and  beat  in  enough  mayonaise  or 
olive  oil  to  make  a  paste.  Season  with  paprika,  salt  and  a  little 
sugar.  Refill  all  the  whites.  Into  a  flat  baking  tin  put  enough 
pieces  of  thin  boiled  ham  two  inches  square  to  cover  the  bottom, 
with  a  little  space  between  each.  On  each  piece  of  ham  place  a 
thin  slice  of  chicken,  and  then  half  an  egg,  and  pieces  of  pimentoes. 
Pour  over  enough  soup  stock  or  chicken  stock  which  has  been 
skimmed  clean  and  heated  and  to  which  gelatine  has  been  added 

PAGE   SIXTY-THREE 


according  to  box  directions,  to  cover  the  eggs,  being  careful  not  to 
disarrange.  When  cold,  cut  right  down  through,  and  each  section 
should  contain  pieces  of  ham  and  chicken,  and  half  an  egg.  This 
may  be  served  as  a  meat  course  for  luncheon,  or  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  dressing.  MRS.  W.  J.  LAWLESS. 

Egg  Vermicelli — 

4      eggs  hard  boiled  1      cup  of  milk 

1      tablespoon  melted  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

1     teaspoon  flour  pinch  of  pepper 

Chop  whites  and  add  to  melted  butter  and  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Thin  by  adding  milk.  Spread  on  thin  buttered  toast,  and  sprinkle 
with  the  yolks  put  through  a  ricer.  MRS.  FRANK  WRIGHT. 

MARMALADES,  PICKLES,  ETC. 

Orange  Marmalade — 

Take  three  oranges  (not  quite  ripe),  one  lemon  sliced  very  thin, 
discarding  the  seeds  and  blossom  end  of  oranges  and  lemon.  Place 
in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Let  stand 
for  24  hours.  Then  boil  1  %  hours  till  very  tender.  Let  it  stand 
for  24  hours.  Then  to  every  cup  of  fruit  and  liquid  add  one  cup 
of  cane  sugar,  and  boil  quickly  for  an  hour,  or  until  it  jells.  Re- 
move and  fill  glasses,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  days  before  sealing. 
This  is  delicious  and  of  a  light  amber  color.  MRS.  A.  D.  HAWKS. 

Orange  Marmalade — 

Five  oranges  and  one  lemon  sliced  very  thin.  Weigh.  To  each 
pound  add  three  pints  cold  water.  Let  stand  24  hours;  then  boil 
one  hour.  Let  stand  24  hours  and  weigh  again.  To  each  pound 
of  fruit  add  one  pound  of  fine  granulated  cane  sugar,  and  boil. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  juice  of  two  lemons  and  boil  for  one 
hour.  HELEN  WRIGHT. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles — 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  the  day  before  you  are  ready 
for  pickling,  sprinkling  them  thoroughly  with  salt,  but  not  too 


Mr.  WILSON  COFFEE  PARLOR 

Terminus  of  car  line.      Refreshments  of 

all  kinds.     A  g  >od  meal;  also    a   resting 

place  for  the  Traveler 

MT.  WILSON  COFFEE  PARLOR 


PAGE   SIXTY-FOUR 


heavily.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  liquor,  have  one  dozen  onions 
sliced,  and  into  a  suitable  kettle  put  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  a 
layer  of  onions  with  a  sprinkling  of  the  following  spices  in  between: 
One  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  allspice,  cinnamon  and  mustard, 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  also  one  cup  of  sugar  and  six  red 
peppers  chopped  coarsely.  Turn  over  three  pints  of  vinegar;  boil 
until  tender.  MRS.  CALEY. 

Dakota  Pickles — 

DRESSING 

1  qt.  vinegar  2     teaspoons  (scant)  white  mus- 

2  cups  sugar  tard  seed 

2     teaspoons  (heap.)  celery  seed   2     teaspoons     (heaping)     cinna- 
2     teaspoons  (scant)  ginger  mon  buds 

2     teaspoons    (scant)    pepper          2     teaspoons  salt 
2     teaspoons  turmeric  powder 

Take  30  fair-sized  cucumbers,  long  and  narrow,  slice  in  cutter, 
add  three- fourths  quart  of  little  onions  sliced;  a  layer  of  cucumbers, 
onions  and  salt;  let  stand  an  hour,  then  drain.  Mix  with  the  above 
dressing  and  cook  until  thoroughly  heated.  Seal  in  jars. 

MRS.   HOWARD   HILL. 
Mustard  Pickles — 

^    pk.  green  tomatoes  12   onions 

12   green   peppers  1   large  cauliflower 

2   doz.  small  cucumbers 

Cut  peppers,  tomatoes,  cauliflower,  etc.,  and  put  in  brine  for  two 
or  three  days:  wash  thoroughly  and  drain. 

DRESSING 

vinegar  to  cover  %cup  flour 

1     cup  sugar  %  lb  box  Coleman's  mustard 

1      tablespoonful  turmeric  / 

Heat  vinegar,  put  pickles  in  until  hot,  then  take  out.  Mix  flour, 
sugar,  mustard  and  turmeric  with  a  little  cold  vinegar;  stir  into  hot 
vinegar,  and  boil  until  thick,  then  add  the  vegetables,  and  stir 
until  well  mixed  and  thoroughly  hot.  Do  not  let  the  vegetables  boil, 
as  it  makes  them  soft.  Put  into  tightly  sealed  jars. 

MRS.    CRISP. 
Grape  Fruit  Marmalade — 

Take  three  good-sized  grape  fruit  and  with  a  sharp  knife  (after 
washing  the  fruit)  slice  fine  all  .the  out  and  inner  skin  to  the  soft 
part,  which  you  slice,  removing  the  seeds  as  you  come  to  them;  slice 
to  the  center,  which  you  will  find  pithy  and  dry,  and  throw  that 
part  away;  the  seeds  put  in  a  bowl  by  themselves.  Three  good- 
sized  grape  fruit  with  the  juice  of  two  oranges  will  make  two  quarts. 
Put  this  in  your  kettle  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water;  put  some 
of  this  water,  about  half  a  pint,  on  the  seeds.  After  it  has  stood  for 
twenty-four  hours,  strain  the  water  and  seeds  through  a  bowl  strainer 
into  the  kettle;  put  kettle  on  the  stove  and  boil  nearly  or  quite  two 
hours,  then  add  five  pounds  of  cane  sugar,  stirring  until  dissolved, 

PAGE  SIXTY-FIVE 


and  let  boil  one  hour  longer,  and  when  it  is  nearly  cold  put  in 
glasses.  This  makes  fifteen  glasses  of  very  fine  marmalade.  Stir 
occasionally  after  the  sugar  is  added  to  make  sure  of  it's  not 
burning.  Cook  steadily  but  not  too  hard.  Try  to  get  solid  grape 
fruit.  DAISY  E.  HAWKS. 

Tomato  Ketchup— 
12   strained  tomatoes  2-3  tablespoon  mustard 

1   tablespoon  of  salt  1-6  tablespoon  cloves  and  allspice 

1   tablespoon  black  pepper  1   gill  vinegar 

SARAH  ANDREWS,  1857. 

Chili  Sauce — 

1   medium  sized  onion  18   large  ripe  tomatoes 

3      green  peppers 
Chop  fine.     Cook  until  tender.     Add: 

1  cup  sugar  2   teaspoons  salt 

2%  cups  vinegar  1   teaspoon  each  all  kinds  spices 

Cook  all  together.     Bottle  for  use.         MRS.  W.  S.  ANDREWS. 
Bordeaux  Sauce — 

2  gals,  chopped  cabbage  1   gal.    vinegar 
12   large  onions  chopped                     2   oz.  celery  seed 

1    Ib  white  mustard  seed  %  lb  brown  sugar 

1  gal.  chopped  green  tomatoes       1   gill  salt 

Mix  and  boil  20  minutes.     Six  small  sweet  red  peppers  are  ex- 
cellent, if  liked.  MRS.  S.  C.  COLLINS. 
Chutney  Sauce — 
12   sour  apples                                       1   qt.  vinegar 

2  green  peppers  2   tablespoonsful   mustard  seed 
6   green  tomatoes  2  tablespoonsful  salt 

4   small  onions  1   tablespoonful   powdered   sugar 

1   cup  raisins  2  cups  brown  sugar 

Remove  seeds  from  raisins  and  peppers,  then  add  the  tomatoes 
and  onions;  chop  all  very  fine.  Put  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  to 
boil:  add  the  chopped  mixture  and  simmer  one  hour.  Then  add  the 
apples,  pared  and  cored,  and  cook  slowly  until  soft.  Keep  in  small 
bottles,  well  sealed.  MRS.  H.  J.  POTTER. 

Fig  Pickles — 

Take  thoroughly  ripe  figs,  wash,  clip  off  the  stem  and  a  little  of 
the  blossom  end.  Do  not  peel  them,  make  a  syrup  of  1  pint  of 
vinegar,  1  quart  of  sugar,  cinnamon  and  clove,  whole  to  suit  the 
taste.  Put  in  enough  figs  to  fill  the  syrup.  Cook  until  done.  Skim 
them  out  and  refill  the  syrup.  When  you  have  two  quarts  of  cooked 
figs,  pour  the  syrup  over  and  let  stand  a  day  or  so.  Drain  off  the 
syrup  and  make  a  new  syrup  like  the  first.  Put  in  the  figs  and 
boil  until  heated  through.  Seal  up.  The  syrup  that  you  used  for 
the  first  cooking  will  be  useless  after  drained  off. 

MRS.  M.  E.  ENTWISTLE. 

PAGE   SIXTY-SIX 


NOTES 


PAGE   SIXTY-SEVEN 


Ginger  Pears — 

8      Ibs.  pears  peeled  and  sliced  very  thin 

8     Ibs.  granulated  sugar.  1-3  Ib.  candied  ginger 

juice  of  3  lemons  and  rind  chopped  fine 
1      pint  water 

Boil  all  together  slowly  until  fruit  is  clear.  Use  rather  hard 
pears.  MRS.  XORMAX  BRIDGE. 

Casabe  ?Ielon  Sweet  Pickle — 

Peel  and  cut  melon  in  cubes  or  any  shape  desired.  Cook  in 
salted  v,  ater  for  a  few  minutes,  then  drain  and  cook  in  vinegar  to 
which  a  little  sugar  has  been  added,  until  tender,  then  drain  again. 
One  pint  vinegar,  three  pounds  sugar,  spices  to  taste,  tied  in  bag. 
Add  the  melon  to  this  and  cook  all  together  until  the  syrup  is 
thick  an;l  rich.  MRS.  NORMAN  BRIDGE. 

Pineapple  Conserve — 

1  pineapple  cut  in  cubes 

2  lemons  cut  in  small  pieces  with  rind 

3  oranges  cut  in  small  pieces  with  rind 

4  boxes  strawberries 

Soak  lemons  and  oranges  over  night  in  water  to  cover.  Cook 
in  the  morning  until  tender.  Add  more  water  if  necessary.  Cook 
pineapple  until  tender,  then  add  to  lemon  and  orange  mixture.  Add 
strawberries  and  then  add  an  equal  amount  of  granulated  sugar. 
Cook  until  syrup  is  rich,  put  in  glasses  and  cover  as  for  jelly. 

MRS.  NORMAN  BRIDGE. 

CANDIES 

Maple  Cream  Candy — 

3     cups  granulated  sugar  %cup  water 

%    cup  corn  syrup  butter  size  of  a  walnut 

a  few  drops  of  mapeline 

Boil  until  strings  in  thread.  Pour  into  white  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth.  Then  add  %  cup  chopped  walnuts.  Beat  until  very  stiff, 
then  pour  onto  greased  platter.  MRS.  GRANT. 

Pecan  Crisp — 

l^icupfuls  of  sugar 
1     cupful  of  pecans 

Caramelize  the  sugar — that  is,  put  it  into  a  smooth  pan  and  stir 
constantly  until  it  lumps  and  then  melts  again  and  forms  a  light 
brown  syrup,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn.  Add  the  pecans  and  pour 
quickly  onto  an  unbuttered  dish.  MRS.  L.  E.  LYON. 

Candied  Orange  Peel — 

Cut  the  peel  in  any  size  pieces  you  like  and  put  in  a  weak  brine 
for  one  day;  change  the  water  and  let  it  stand  in  fresh  water  36 
hours,  changing  the  water  several  times.  This  takes  out  the  bitter. 
Then  boil  In  clear  water  until  tender  and  soft.  Drain  all  this  water 
off  and  weigh.  To  each  pound  of  peel  allow  1  %  Ibs.  of  sugar  and 
PAGE  SIXTY-EIGHT 


one  pint  of  water.  Put  water  and  sugar  together  and  let  it  boil; 
then  skim  and  add  the  peel  and  cook  until  transparent.  If  there 
is  any  syrup  left  pour  it  off,  and  after  the  peel  has  drained,  pack  with 
a  little  sugar.  This  will  keep  indefinitely.  Used  to  make  it  at  home 
every  year.  You  can  make  lemon  peel  the  same  way. 

F.  P.  CONARD. 

Chocolate  Fudge — 

I     cup  white  sugar  1     cup  rich  milk 

I     1     cup  brown  sugar  butter  size  of  an  egg 

1     cup  maple  sugar  2     squares  of  Baker's  chocolate 

*i  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  in  sauce  pan  over  fire  to  dissolve; 
stir  all  the  while.  When  thoroughly  dissolved  let  boil  until  it 
strings  from  the  spoon.  Do  not  stir  while  it  is  boiling.  Remove 
from  stove,  add  butter  and  vanilla,  then  beat  vigorously  until  it 
will  just  pour.  Turn  into  buttered  tin  and  cool.  Mark  off  in  squares 
before  real  cold.  Chopped  nut  meats  make  a  pleasant  variety. 

HELEN  WRIGHT. 

SPECIAL  SPANISH,  GERMAN  AND  ITALIAN  DISHES 

Dutch  Apple  Cake — 

1  pint  of  flour 

14    cup  of  butter,  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  flour 

2  tablespoonsful  sugar 

t     tablespoonsful  baking  powder 
1     teaspoonful  salt 
1     cup  of  milk 

1  egg 

2  large  mellow  apples  cut  into  eighths. 

Pour  the  batter  into  the  baking  tin.     Press  the  apples  into  it  an 
inch  apart  and  then  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top.     Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  hot  or  cold  sauce. 
i  MRS.    J.    A.    OSGOOD. 

Mrs.  Litehenberger's  Dumplings—- 
Beat a  kitchen  spoon  of  butter  and  half  as  much  cold  soup  fat 
to  a  very  light  cream.     Add  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.     Beat  well. 
Add  four  tablespoons  of  flour  and  one  of  water  a  few  drops  at  a 
time.     Beat  for  ten  minutes.     Add  beaten  whites  last.     Season  with 
chopped  parsley,  nutmeg  and  salt.      Drop  into  boiling  soup  from  a 
teaspoon  wet  each  time,  or  into  chicken  fricasee. 
'    Taglerini — 
;      1    It)  of  spaghetti  */&cup  dried  mushrooms 

6   ripe  tomatoes,  or  %   can  1  can  button  mushrooms 

10   dried  red  chilis  1    qt.  soup  stock 

pieces  of  celery  1   cup  beef  or  chicken  gravy 

pieces  of  parsley  1   cup  cheese  cut  fine 

2   onions  ^cup  cheese  grated 

2   bay  leaves  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  spice 

PAGE   SIXTY-NINE 


Plunge  spaghetti  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  after  ten  minutes 
drain  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Put  on  to  cook  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover,  and  set  kettle  in  a  larger  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Add  the  soup  stock,  gravy,  button  and  dried  mushrooms  and  their 
liquors,  and  the  chile  pepper  pulp.  Add  bay  leaves,  celery,  onions, 
tomatoes,  parsley  and  spice,  tied  up  in  a  piece  of  cheese  clotn.  Boil 
slowly  for  three  hours,  tightly  covered,  adding  a  little  hot  water 
when  necessary,  and  stirring  very  little.  Ten  minutes  before  .serving 
stir  in  cut  cheese.  Pour  into  large  deep  platter,  and  sprinkle  with 
the  grated  cheese.  Be  careful  to  have  enough  gravy  and  to  remove 
spice  bag  before  adding  cheese.  Prepare  dried  mushrooms  by 
washing  and  soaking  one  hour  in  warm  water.  Drain  and  rinse, 
and  soak  over  night.  This  liquor  should  be  used. 

MRS.  W.  J.  LAWLESS. 

To  Prepare  Chiles — 

Take  red  dried  chiles,  split  open  and  remove  seeds  and  veins. 
Wash  the  shells  and  put  them  in  a  dish  of  cold  water  on  the  stove. 
Let  them  simmer  one  hour,  when  the  soft  red  pulp  will  scrape  easily 
from  the  skin.  The  pulp  will  have  a  strong  chile  flavor,  but  will 
not  be  hot,  and  may  be  kept  In  a  cool  place  and  used  as  seasoning 
when  desired. 

Mock  Goulash — 

2   large  onions  12   ripe  tomatoes 

4  tablespoons  butter  salt 

4   green  bell  peppers  pepper 

Cut  peppers  in  small  squares;  simmer  in  fry  pan  with  butter  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  onions  cut  fine  and  let  cook  fifteen  minutes 
longer.  Pare  tomatoes  and  add  to  onions  and  peppers.  Season  and 
let  cook  forty-five  minutes  on  back  of  range. 

MRS.   L.   C.   TORRANCE. 

BEVERAGES 

Ginger  Beer — 

2     ounces  cream  of  tartar  peel    (thin)   and    juice  of  2 

2     Ibs.  granulated  sugar  large  lemons 

2%    ounces  whole  white  ginger  (bruised) 

Pour  on  the  above  3  gallons  of  boiling  water.  When  luke  warm 
stir  in  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  water. 
Bottle  when  cold.  Ready  for  use  in  24  hours. 

MRS.   J.    G.    BLUMER. 

Russian  Tea — 

One  teaspoon  tea,  pour  over  It  one  qnart  boiling  water,  juice  of 
two  lemons,  half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Cover  the  tea  and  let  it  stand 
over  night,  then  strain;  add  lemon  and  sugar  and  strain  again;  let 
stand  several  hours;  put  in  a  bowl  filled  with  crushed  ice  and  serve. 

MRS    L.  C.  TORRANCE. 
PAGE   SEVENTY 


NOTES 


PAGE   SEVENTY-ONE 


Fish  Croquettes — 

Any  kind  of  boiled  fish;  separate  from  bones  carefully,  chop  with 
a  little  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  an  egg  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Roll  the  fish 
balls,  turn  them  in  the  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  light  brown  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  or  lemon  sauce. 

MRS.  J.  H.  WRIGHT. 
Olive  Sandwiches — 

Chop  into  small  pieces  one  quart  of  ripe  olives.  Yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  thick 
cream.  Mix  the  cloves,  cream  paste  and  one-half  pint  of  mayonnaise, 
season  with  paprika  and  a  little  salt.  Spread  between  thin  slices 
of  bread.  MRS.  J.  H.  WRIGHT. 


HJ 


PAGE   SEVENTY-TWO 


CONTRACTOR  and  BUILDER 


I  have  fully  equipped  shops  for  the  manufacture  of 
Mission  furniture  and  all  kinds  of  cabinet  work.  My 
personal  attention  is  given  to  all  of  my  work.  Your 
business  is  solicited.  Shops  on  La  Belle  Avenue. 


J.  A.  GILBERT 

TELEPHONE  RED  82  SIERRA  MADRE 


The  Irving'  N.  Ward 

Nursery 

s        s        ^        s        * 

Phone  Blue  29  Sierra  Madre 


Are  made  in  our  own  factories 
from  our  own  designs 


We  Are 

The  largest   Japanese  store    in 
the  West 


IBMnl 


635  -637       S°  DPOADWAY 


