HOME-MAKING 
CGDRBGOK 


Class TXllS 

Book Jb__ 

Copyright}!" 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSm 


"There  is  something  wrong  with  the 
home  that  is  not  the  happiest  spot  on 
earth." 


The  Author  and   Her   Daughter   Isabelle. 


A 
COOK  BOOK 


FOR 

The  Poor 

The  Rich 

The  Sick 

The  Well 

A  Reform  from  the  Old  Wasteful  Methods 

to  the  Saving,  Scientific  and 

Nourishing  Ones 


tf 


CHICAGO 

W.  B.  CONKEY  COMPANY 
Publishers 


N^ri 


Copyright,  1910 

BY 

MARY  E.  WILKINSON 


©GI,A268585 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Soups 17 

Fish 26 

Meats 34 

Sauces,  Dressing,  Etc 5T 

Vegetables 61 

Eggs 82 

Salads 88 

Bread • 97 

Sandwiches 113 

Desserts • 117 

Sweet   Sauces 126 

Pies 129 

Creams,  Sherbets,  Ices 135 

Cheese 137 

Cakes,  Cookies,  Doughnuts 142 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures 156 

Cereals 158 

Drinks 160 

Canning 169 

Milk 190 

Foods 193 

The  Sick '.  .204 

Home-Making. 215 

Dining  Room  and  Kitchen 225 

Laundry '. 233 

To  Rid  the  House  of  Pests 243 

Household  Hints 249 

Menus — Lenten • 265 

A  Few  Health  Hints 276 

Miscellaneous 290 

Quotations  and  Extracts 308 


A  treatise  aiming  to  cover  all  the  practical,  every- 
day needs  of  the  homes  of  people  of  small  means,  and 
showing  how  these  homes  can  be  made  happy. 


A  few  menus  are  given  merely  as  a  starter  to  help 
a  young  housewife  plan  meals.  By  using  these  for  a 
short  time,  she  will  soon  learn  to  make  up  her  own. 


Labor  and  time  saving  depends  on  the  arrangement 
of  house,  and  also  of  the  house  furnishings.  When 
arranging  a  house  it  is  well  to  keep  in  mind  a  ship — • 
where  all  space  is  used  and  made  handy  as  possible 
especially  the  kitchen.  Have  plenty  of  shelves,  hooks, 
nails,  etc.  and  always  remember  one  of  the  great  laws 
and  secrets  of  good  housekeeping  is: 

"A  place  for  ever3'thing  and  everything  in  its  place." 


A  clean  and  cheerful  house  makes  a  happy  home. 
Consider  no  work  common  or  unclean,  whether  tend- 
ing the  baby  or  emptying  ashes,  as  it  is  God's  will 
whatever  falls  to  our  share— therefore  make  it  bubble 
over  with  joy  by  doing  it  for  God,  and  no  matter  how 
menial  it  may  seem,  do  it  the  best  you  know  how.  He 
takes  care  of  the  result. 


Know  how  to  buy.  Know  how  to  cook.  Know  how 
to  save.  What  is  left  over  must  never  be  thrown 
away.  It  can  be  converted  into  a  new  delicious  dish, 
fed  to  animals  or  used  as  a  fertilizer  for  the  garden. 
Bones  ground  up  are  excellent  fertilizers.  In  teaching 
yourself  don't  forget  to  teach  the  children;  though 
their  work  will  be  rough  and  half  done  they  should 
never  be  discouraged  or  allowed  to  overdo.  The  train- 
ing, be  it  ever  so  little  or  much,  means  building  of  char- 
acter, etc.,  which  adds  to  their  success  in  later  years 
no  matter  what  their  calling  will  be. 


Two  laws  of  Le  Clerc  (one  of  the  greatest  cooks  of 
France).  "Quality  of  food  is  better  than  quantity." 
"Nothing  in  a  kitchen  can  ever  go  to  waste  if  you  will 
learn  what  to  do  with  all  that  enters  that  kitchen." 


To  the  Laboring  Class  and  Farmer's   Wives  and 
Children,  this  work  is  sincerely  dedicated. 

The  writer  has  made  special  effort  to   make   this 
little  work  assist  the  poor  servant  girl. 

To  Miss  Marie  Yaeger,  my  classmate  and  friend  of 
long  standing,  I  am  indebted  for  much  I  have  learned 
in  both  cooking  and  nursing.  She  has  been  a  source 
of  unfailing  inspiration  through  the  many  hard  strug- 
gles of  both  school  and  lifework. 


10 


Whether  a  cook  is  born  or  made,  much  depends  on 
his  or  her  application  to  study.  One  should  strive  to 
get  at  least  a  little  knowledge  of  the  chemistry  of 
cooking  or  he  will  not  know  what  combinations  do 
injury. 

For  this  reason  I  place  particular  stress  upon  a  care- 
ful reading  and  re-reading  of  the  preface  that  you 
may  get  an  idea  of  how  to  use  this  little  book. 

"Civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks." — Lucille. 


11 


PREFACE 


It  is  always  well  to  state  carefully  the  aim  of  a  book. 

My  first  object  is  to  give  a  partial  idea  of  scientific 
cooking  whereby  many  may  know  how  to  improve 
their  health  and  prevent  kidney  and  stomach  trouble, 
of  which  a  great  percentage  is  caused  by  not  knowing 
what  we  should  eat  and  how  it  should  be  cooked. 

While  I  have  taken  a  course  in  the  three  branches 
of  cooking;  Invalid,  Plain  and  Fancy,  I  sorely  feel  the 
lack  of  ability  or  power  to  impart  the  knowledge 
which  I  found  that  I  so  much  needed  and  which  is 
needed  in  homes  everywhere.  However,  I  will  do  my 
utmost  to  give  others  the  benefit  of  my  experience. 

A  second  object  of  this  little  book  is  to  help  young 
housekeepers  of  only  moderate  means  to  plan  and 
cook  meals  that  will  nourish  the  system  and  still  man- 
age the  financial  part  so  as  to  save  a  husband's  hard 
earned  money,  which  should  be  one  of  the  aims  of  all 
conscientious,  thrifty  housewives. 

A  third  object  is  to  enable  those,  who  never  have 
been  able  to  save  on  their  table,  to  do  so  easily  with 
very  little  study.  A  few  menus  and  rules  will  be 
given. 

A  fourth  object  is  to  give  a  few  invalid  principles 
and  receipts  so  that  people  who  cannot  afford  a  trained 
nurse  or  intelligent  help,  may  lessen  the  sufferings  of 
the  poor  sick  one  by  knowing  how  to  make  the  stomach 
and  nerves  comfortable,  by  giving  a  simple  and  care- 
fully prepared  diet,  which  will  greatly  aid  the  doctor 
who  feels   the   responsibility.      Many   invalids   suffer 

13 


14  PREFACE 

most  pitiably  because  those  who  care  for  them  are 
afraid  they  will  give  something  they  ought  not  to; 
or  on  the  other  hand,  by  giving  too  much.  In  either 
case  the  digestive  properties  of  the  food  should  not 
be  destroyed  by  too  fast  or  too  slow  cooking. 

The  fifth  object,  last  but  not  least,  is  the  help  it  may 
offer  to  banish  the  saloon  evil.  Good  cooking  is  one 
of  the  most  essential  aids.  If  the  system  is  properly 
nourished  and  nerves  kept  in  fine  condition  the  crav- 
ing for  drink  will  be  absent.  Many  will  doubt  this 
and  call  it  bosh,  but,  nevertheless,  it  is  true. 

While  I  have  been  working  on  this  little  volume,  I 
have  come  upon  the  following  little  extracts  from  news- 
papers and  elsewhere,  that  help  to  carry  out  some  of  my 
sentiments  in  regard  to  this  subject. 

A  New  York  judge  looked  down  upon 

A  culprit  pale  with  fear ; 
"Your  face,"  he  said,  "convinces  me 

Bad  cooking  brought  you  here. 
The  provender  your  wife  prepares 

Is  surely  wretched  stuff ; 
What  sort  of  biscuit  does  she  bake?" 

The  culprit  sobbed,  "It's  tough," 
The  j'udge  looked  down  upon  the  wight, 

"You're  not  to  blame,  I  think ; 
Bad  cooking  is  the  curse  that  drives 

A  million  men  to  drink." 

A  girl's  ideal  at  seventeen 

Must  have  fine  eyes ; 
Likewise  a  bold  and  striking  mien 

And  faultless  ties ; 
But  later  on  her  fancies  roam 
To  one  who'll  bring  his  wages  home. 

A  man's  ideal  at  seventeen 

Must  be  a  sprite ; 
A  dainty,  fluffy,  elfin  queen 

Of  sheer  delight; 
But  later  on  he  sorter  feels 
He  wants  a  girl  who  can  cook  meals. 


PREFACE  15 

This  little  extract  shows  the  faulty  system  of  edu- 
cation in  both  our  public  schools  and  American  homes. 
False  ideals.  Domestic  Science  is  looked  down  upon 
instead  of  being  raised  to  the  high  professional  ideal 
where  it  belongs.  An  ideal  a  girl  should  have  the 
pleasure  of  being  proud  of  instead  of  disdainfully 
casting  aside.  Watch  what  good  old  Germany  is  doing 
^in  this  line.  Read  what  you  can  of  the  Froebel  sys- 
tem. Mothers  should  do  all  they  can  to  train  their 
girls,  mildly,  pleasantly  and  as  intelligently  as  they 
can  in  this  line  and  the  public  schools  should  help 
them. 

A  little  of  this  training  will  not  hurt  the  boys. 
There  often  come  periods  in  their  lives ,  when  such 
knowledge  is  very  valuable.  It  is  easier  for  mothers 
to  do  the  work  themselves,  but  this  is  not  doing  justice 
to  the  poor  little  untrained  fingers  or  doing  the  duty 
God  has  mapped  out  for  them.  "He  sat  at  the  dinner 
table  with  a  discontented  frown;  the  potatoes  and 
steak  were  underdone  and  the  bread  was  baked  too 
brown;  the  pie  was  heavy,  the  pudding  too  sweet,  and 
the  meat  was  much  too  fat ;  the  soup  too  greasy,  too, 
and  salt,  'twas  hardly  fit  for  the  cat." 

The  above  extract  shows  a  carelessly  planned  meal, 
or  one  gotten  up  by  those  who  boast  of  getting  meals 
in  such  a  short  time  as  fifteen  minutes,  slapped  up  in 
a  hurry.  This  is  one  of  the  great  faults  of  our  Ameri- 
can cooking — too  fast — destroying  the  digestive  prop- 
erties of  the  food,  thereby  robbing  the  system  of  the 
nourishment  it  so  much  needs  and  causing  great  waste 
physically  as  well  as  financially. 

I  am  indebted  to  my  beloved  cooking  school  teacher 
for  nearly  all  of  the  principles  which  you  will  find  at 
the  head  of  each  chapter,  and  which,  let  me  urge 
strongly  are  often  more  important  than  the  recipe  you 
may  be  using,  for  by  knowing  these  you  can  often 


16  PREFACE 

make  up  your  own  recipe  scientifically  and  also  detect 
mistakes  in  any  you  may  happen  to  read.  The  chief 
object  of  the  principles  is  to  learn  what  is  right  for 
our  hard  working  systems. 

I  started  a  little  notebook  of  recipes  when  a  very 
young  girl  always  getting  the  recipe,  if  I  could,  of 
anything  I  thought  delicious,  and  have  on  hand  a  fair 
collection,  so  that  not  all  these  recipes  are  my  own, 
and  I  am  selecting  what  I  consider  the  most  practical, 
cheapest,  best  and  useful  for  all;  just  a  little  handy 
book  for  the  poor  and  hard-working  who  have  little 
time  to  read  and  study  through  long  chapters  and 
fancy  menus. 

Great  care  has  been  taken  to  show  how  a  good 
nourishing  diet  may  be  provided  by  people  of  little 
means,  making  the  home  comfortable  and  happy. 

With  the  hope  that  this  little  book  will  help  a  few, 
at  least,  of  our  many  hard  working  housewives  to  make 
their  work  easier,  more  cheerful  and  professional,  it 
is  herewith  submitted,  M.  E.  W. 

Kenosha,  Wis. 


SOUPS 


MEAT,  VEGETABLE^ .FISH  AND  FRUIT 

The  principle  of  meat  soup  is  to  draw  or  rather  ex- 
tract as  much  nourishment  from  the  meat  and  bones, 
also  gristle  and  marrow,  as  possible,  therefore  cold 
water  should  be  used  and  heated  slowly  and  the  meat 
and  bone  cut  and  sawed  in  small  pieces.  Clean  scraps 
of  each  can  be  saved,  both  raw  and  cooked,  steak 
bones  and  other  clean  scraps  from  the  table,  and  when 
enough  is  accumulated,  a  delicious  soup  can  be  made. 

In  the  winter  time  these  can  be  kept  in  the  soup 
kettle,  but  in  the  summer  it  is  best  to  gather  them  in 
a  jar  or  dish  in  the  icebox  and  for  not  longer  than 
two  days.  The  meat  should  be  lean  and  fresh.  Soft 
water  is  best  and  it  is  good  to  soak  it  overnight  or 
put  the  water  on  as  soon  as  possible  after  getting  up. 
In  cold  weather  enough  soup  stock  can  be  made  at  one 
time  to  last  a  week  and  many  different  delicious  soups 
and  gravies  be  made  from  it  the  rest  of  the  week.  It 
must  not  freeze  but  be  kept  very  cold.  If  danger 
of  spoiling  on  a  hot  night,  it  can  be  brought 
to  a  boil  the.  night  before  and  let  simmer  for 
fifteen  minutes  or  it  can  be  entirely  made  the 
night  before,  strained  and  simply  skimmed  and 
warmed  next  day.  Do  not  let  it  get  above  simmering 
point  (160-170  degrees)  for  a  great  part  of  the  nourish- 
ment is  destroyed  above  that  point.  The  juices  from 
the  meat  will  be  extracted  in  two  or  three  hours,  but 
the  bones  take  four  to  six  hours,  so  that  it  would  be 

17 


18  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

well  to  put  the  bones  over  first,  though  not  necessary. 
Leave  the  scum  on  as  it  contains  albumen  of  the  soup. 
Some  think  all  the  juices  of  the  meat  are  extracted 
but  not  so.  A  little  cooked  cornbeef  or  other  good 
meat  can  be  added  to  the  soup  meat,  flavored  and  made 
into  nice  hash  or  patties. 

Flavorings  should  not  be  added  till  about  one  hour 
or  a  little  better,  before  removing.  Any  desired  vege- 
table may  be  used,  and  if  the  stock  is  made  the  day 
before,  the  vegetables  can  be  simmered  in  a  little  hot 
water  and  added  when  soup  is  warmed. 

Grated  carrot  colors  it,  also  chopped  parsley  or 
spinach.  Some  like  spices  but  these  should  not  be 
used  often.  Salt  and  pepper  or  a  little  paprika  can 
be  added  just  before  serving.  Some  people  prefer  to 
strain  it  before  adding  vegetables,  otherwise  strain 
before  serving  and  skim  off  as  much  fat  as  possible, 
or  let  stand  over  night  and  skim  off  just  before  warm- 
ing next  day,  and  not  until  then  as  the  layer  of  fat 
keeps  nourishment  in  the  soup.  This  latter  method 
is  best  for  invalids.  Pieces  of  dry  bread  or  tissue 
paper  will  greatly  aid  one  in  getting  off  the  fat  if  going 
to  serve  at  once,  though  a  little  of  the  fat  does  no 
harm,  unless  the  stomach  is  very  weak. 

A  handful  of  oatmeal  added  when  putting  meat 
over,  adds  to  the  proportion  of  nourishment. 

Mutton  makes  a  very  nutritious  soup — also  chicken, 
but  chicken  is  too  expensive  except  the  left  overs  of 
it,  though  it  is  all  right  to  get  it  for  the  sick  who  un- 
less very  weak  or  forbidden  by  physician,  can  take 
strained  soups  of  any  kind.  All  soups  are  made  ac- 
cording to  the  same  principles. 

When  tomatoes  are  not  on  hand  for  flavoring,  a 
•  good  tomato  catsup  (about  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls)  may 
be  substituted.  Some  like  it  in  all  kinds  of  soup,  add- 
ing a  pinch  of  soda  when  used  in  milk  soups. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  19 

A  little  jar  of  soup  stock  can  be  taken  out  before 
putting  vegetables  in,  cooled  and  put  in  ice  box  to 
make  gravies  of.  Vegetables  that  blend  well  together 
may  be  mixed  to  make  soup  if  one  does  not  happen  to 
have  enough  of  one  kind.  The  fireless  cooker  is  a 
blessing  in  soupmaking  as  well  as  other  cooking.  Lit- 
tle booklets  of  directions  go  with  them. 

HAMBURG  SOUP 

If  one  needs  a  soup  in  a  hurry,  this  is  a  very  easy 
one  to  make.  For  four  people,  take  1  lb.  Hamburg 
(good),  a  small  section  of  cabbage  chopped,  one  piece 
of  celery,  one  onion,  one  carrot  and  one  or  two  good 
sized  potatoes,  and  a  little  rice.  Cut  all  up  fine,  put  all 
together  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  simmer 
slowly  for  two  hours.  Season  and  serve  without 
straining. 

If  one  has  no  meat  grinder  the  meat  can  be  chopped, 
or  if  the  butcher  grinds  it  he  can  remove  the  fat  first. 
Round  steak  is  meant. 

If  one  desires,  they  can  mix  a  little  can  of  herbs  for 
flavoring  soups — marjoram,  thyme,  savory,  bay  leaf. 
Use  about  one  even  teaspoonful  to  a  pound  of  meat. 

Neck,  ankle,  shank  and  shin  are  most  used  for 
soups. 

Broth  is  stronger  than  soup,  using  a  pint  of  water 
to  a  pound  of  meat  for  strong,  and  one  quart  of  water 
to  pound  of  meat  for  weak  broth.  Soak  bones  if  any 
in  half  of  the  water. 

Puree  is  a  thick  soup  of  beans  or  peas. 

In  making  creamed  or  vegetable  soups,  use  about 
one  pint  of  pulp  (which  may  be  diluted  slightly  with 
hot  water  when  pressing  through  colander)  to  one 
quart  of  milk.  These  are  more  nutritious  than  stock 
soups.  Some  are  often  delicious  without  putting 
through  colander. 


20  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK 

Spinach  makes  an  excellent  soup  for  invalids — it 
should  be  boiled  with  scarcely  any  water  and  then 
made  like  potato  soup.  A  double  boiler  is  best,  taking 
just  a  little  longer  to  cook. 

Corn  soup  is  made  the  same,  also,  only  it  must  not 
be  cooked  longer  than  five  minutes  unless  made  in 
double  boiler. 

White  sauce  is  the  foundation  of  creamed  soups. 

Avoid  putting  too  much  onion  in  any  soup. 

BEEF  JUICE.     (First-class  way) 

One-half  pound  beef.  Don't  cook  any  more  at  a 
time  than  needed.  Trim  off  the  fat  and  broil  over 
the  hot  fire,  turning  every  ten  seconds  for  three  min- 
utes, no  longer.  If  overcooked  or  just  warmed  juice 
will  not  run  freely.  Then  cut  meat  on  a  hot  platter, 
in  one-half  inch  pieces,  and  gash  with  a  knife. 

Put  into  a  lemon  squeezer  over  warm  water,  but 
not  too  hot. 

One-half  pound  meat  will  make  4  tablespoonfuls 
which  is  enough  for  a  patient. 

BEEF  TEA.     (Excellent) 

This  is  stimulating  but  not  nourishing,  and  if  taken 
alone,  about  a  half  hour  before  breakfast,  it  often 
proves  a  good  laxative;  a  half  cup  is  sufficient  for  a 
patient.  A  pound  of  round  steak  makes  nearly  a 
breakfast  cupful. 

Take  a  half  pound  of  round  steak,  remove  fat,  cut  in 
one  or  two  inch  squares  or  pieces,  put  in  pint  fruit  jar 
with  a  tiny  bit  of  salt,  and  put  cover  on  without  rub- 
ber. Set  in  teakettle  in  cold  water,  on  back  of  stove, 
or  if  gas  range  turn  gas  low  when  nearly  ready  to 
boil,  or  after  simmering  a  few  minutes,  remove  jar, 
when  meat  will  be  white  and  pour  juice  which  is  seen 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  21 

at  bottom,  into  warm  cup.  May  pour  a  very  little  of 
hot  water  over  meat  in  jar  and  pour  off  second  time 
into  cup.  It  is  better  for  digestion  without  pepper, 
though  it  adds  to  the  flavor  of  it. 

POTATO  SOUP 

Three  potatoes,  i/^  teaspoonful  celery  salt  (if  liked), 
1  teaspoonful  salt,.!  pint  milk,  1  salt  spoon  white  pep- 
per, I  teaspoonful  chopped  or  sliced  onion,  or  a  table- 
spoon will  do  no  harm,  %  salt  spoon  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, 1  stalk  celery,  ^  tablespoonful  flour,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  butter. 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Soak  in  cold  water  one- 
half  hour,  then  boil  till  soft.  Cook  onion,  celery  and 
milk  and  pour  into  potatoes,  then  add  other  ingredi- 
ents. Boil  or  better,  simmer  about  four  minutes,  and 
serve.  Better  if  onion  is  soaked  ion  cold  water,  then 
simply  warmed  and  drained  before  adding. 

This  recipe  serves  about  three  or  four  people.  It 
can  be  made  much  simpler  and  if  potatoes 'are  old,  par- 
boil five  or  ten  minutes  and  throw  first  water  away, 
A  few  homemade  noodles  are  nice  cooked  in  it  a  few 
minutes  before  taking  up.  A  teaspoon  or  two  of 
cream  of  wheat  may  be  boiled  with  potatoes  and  less 
pepper  may  be  used.  Milk  may  be  diluted  if  scarce, 
but  it  is  not  so  nourishing.  Left  over  Macaroni, 
tomatoes  or  other  left  overs  may  be  used. 

US 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

Two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  1  cup  strained  toma- 
toes, 1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  cup  each 
chopped  onions,  carrots  and  celery,  ^/^  cup  each 
chopped  turnips,  parsnips,  cabbage,  1  teaspoonful 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  salt  spoon  pepper;  use  all 
varieties  of  vegetables  you  wish. 


22  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Use  about  half  as  much  pulp  as  liquid. 

Cook  cabbage,  cauliflour,  parsnips  and  potatoes,  five 
minutes,  and  drain  carefully.  Parboil  the  onion  and 
brown  in  butter,  also  carrots.  Simmer  the  soup  one 
and  one-half  to  two  hours,  not  boil.  Always  add 
sugar  to  vegetables.  If  white  sauce  is  added,  it  should 
be  mixed  with  some  of  the  vegetable  liquor. 

SCOTCH  BROTH 

One-half  cup  Pearl  barley,  2  pounds  neck  of  mutton, 
2  quarts  cold  water,  J4  cup  each  of  carrots,  turnips, 
onion  and  celery,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  1  salt  spoon  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 

Pick  over  and  soak  the  barley  three  hours  or  over 
night.  Put  bones  to  simmer  in  1  pint  of  cold  water, 
and  meat  in  3  pints  cold  water.  Let  it  come  to  a 
boil  and  skim  carefully,  and  then  add  the  barley. 
Vegetables  should  be  cut  in  dice,  fry  five  minutes  in 
one  tablespoonful  butter,  then  add  them  to  meat,  and 
simmer  three  or  four  hours  till  the  meat  and  barley 
are  very  tender.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  bones 
have  simmered.  Cook  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  sauce- 
pan with  1  tablespoonful  flour.  When  smooth,  add 
strained  water  gradually  and  stir  into  the  broth ;  then 
add  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Simmer  ten  minutes  and 
serve  without  straining.  Always  trim  off  the  skin  of 
beef  or  mutton — also  the  fat  before  Hiding.    Excellent. 

(Mrs.  Sexton). 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP 

One-half  peck  of  spinach  washed  four  times  with 
plenty  of  water.  Use  only  the  leaves.  Pack  into 
double  boiler,  without  water,  put  cozy  on  and  steam 
one  hour.     Press  through  press  or  colander. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  23 

Have  ready  a  white  sauce  of  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour  rubbed  in  one  or  two  of  butter,  and  1  quart  of 
milk  with  a  Httle  pinch  of  soda,  salt  and  very  little 
pepper  (if  for  an  invalid,  leave  out  pepper).  Cook 
till  it  thickens.  Add  the  spinach,  stir  or  beat  quite 
well  and  serve  at  once.    Excellent  for  an  invalid. 

Just  a  little  white  sauce  may  be  added  to  a  little  of 
the  spinach  and  served  on  a  piece  of  toast. 

CREAMED  CELERY  SOUP 

Parboil  a  bunch  of  celery,  1  good  sized  onion,  about 
ten  minutes,  cut  in  pieces,  and  drain,  pour  on  fresh 
boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  simmer  one  hour  and 
put  through  a  coarse  colander.  Scald  3  cups  of  milk 
in  double  boiler,  add  to  it  celery  and  also  the  water 
in  which  celery  was  boiled,  and  ^  tablespoonful  flour 
(rounding)  ;  with  1  of  butter  rubbed  or  melted  in  tiny 
granite  pan.  Stir,  let  steam  about  three  minutes  and 
serve.  It  may  be  flavored  with  a  cup  of  strained 
tomatoes  in  which  is  a  pinch  of  soda.  Not  necessary 
to  heat  the  tomatoes,  have  them  in  a  warm  place  ready 
to  season. 

Serve  with  croutons  or  browned  crackers.  This 
may  also  be  made  like  creamed  tomato  soup. 

CREAMED  TOMATO  SOUP 

Tomatoes  may  be  strained  or  not,  and  heated  or 
not,  as  one  likes.  If  heated,  remove  just  a  minute  or 
two  before  adding  milk  gravy  or  they  will  curdle  it. 
Put  in  ^  to  54  teaspoonful  of  soda  into  tomatoes,  ac- 
cording to  the  principles  given.  The  proportion  is 
about  a  quart  of  milk  to  1  can  of  tomatoes  and  1  or  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  butter  according  to  thick- 
ness one  desires. 

Season.  Onion  and  flour  may  be  added  or  omitted, 
making  a  thick  or  thin  soup. 


24  THE   HOME-MAKING  COOK   BOOK 

TOMATO  SOUP.     (For  six  people) 

One  can  tomatoes,  one  good  sized  onion,  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls 
sugar,  a  little  paprika.  Brown  butter,  flour  and  onions 
(stirring  constantly),  lightly.  Add  two  cups  warm 
water  and  the  tomatoes.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  strain 
and  serve. 

BEAN  SOUP.     (Invalid  Style) 

For  six  or  seven  people,  take  about  three  breakfast 
cups  of  beans.  Put  over  in  cold  water  and  when  they 
come  to  a  boil  add  Yz  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Drain,  add 
boiling  water  and  parboil  five  to  ten  minutes.  Strain 
and  parboil  again  in  boiling  water  for  the  same  time. 
Simmer  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  in  the  fourth' 
water  (have  plenty  of  it).  If  you  wish  to  save  stock 
for  gravyr  drain  ofif  a  cup  or  two  before  mashing  or 
putting  through  colander.  Add  cup  of  milk  and  4 
rolled  crackers,  butter  and  onion  cut  small,  which  has 
been  parboiled  and  drained.  Season.  Let  come  to  a 
boil  and  serve.     Excellent. 

For  common  use,  this  need  not  be  put  through  col- 
ander. 

DRIED  PEA  SOUP 

The  same  as  bean  soup. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

Let  1  quart  of  oysters  come  to  a  boil,  in  3  cups  of 
hot  water.  Simmer  about  ten  minutes.  Add  1  quart  of 
scalded  milk  and  2  or  3  rolled  crackers.  Season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.     Serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

FRUIT  SOUPS 

These  are  used  considerably  in  Germany.  Children 
are   very    fond   of   them.     Usually   made   of   grapes, 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  25 

prunes  or  apples.  They  are  served  cold.  They  are 
simply  the  sauces  with  more  water  added  and  sim- 
mered for  a  longer  time  than  sauce,  and  the  fruit 
mashed  or  strained.  Arrowroot  or  flour  is  used  for 
thickening  and  lemon  for  flavoring. 


26  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


FISH 


T       1  •  J      r  r"  u     i  Red  Blood — Fat  distributed  throughout 
Two  kinds  of  Fish,   j  ^j^j^.^  Blood-Fat  distributed  in  liver. 

Fish  is  alkali  and  requires  some  lemon  juice  or  acid. 
Oily  fish  should  always  be  boiled,  not  fried. 


Salmon. 
Red.    <  Eel.  White. 

Herring. 


Cod. 

White  fish. 
Shaddock. 
Bass. 
^  Brook  and  lake  trout. 


Buy  fish  in  which  the  eyes  are  prominent,  scales 
bright,  flesh  firm  and  odor  fresh. 

Fish  must  be  fresh,  the  fresher  the  better. 

Never  leave  fresh  fish  in  water  over  night.  Clean 
and  dry,  salt,  wrap  in  paraffin  paper  and  put  right 
on  the  ice.    Fish  must  be  always  well  cooked. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  with  dishes  which  have 
been  used  for  preparing  and  cooking  fish,  thoroughly 
wash,  scald  and  put  in  sun  or  they  will  taint  other 
foods,  the  broiler  especially. 

SALMON  LOAF  OR  SALMON  BAKE 

One  can  of  salmon,  drain  oflf  the  liquor,  4  eggs 
beaten  light,  four  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  J/^  cup- 
ful fine  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
parsley. 

Chop  or  break  fish  fine,  then  rub  butter  in  till  fine 
and  smooth.  ^Beat  the  crumbs  with  the  eggs  and 
seasoning  before  working  them  together.     Steam  one 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  27 

hour  in  buttered  mold.     Two  good  baking  powder 
cans  (1  pound)  will  do. 

Left  over  cream  of  wheat  may  be  added  to  this  and 
only  2  eggs  and  a  little  milk  used,  or  in  Lent  when 
fish  and  eggs  are  not  allowed  at  the  same  meal  use 
more  cream  of  wheat  and  leave  out  the  eggs.  A  little 
cream  may  be  added. 

SAUCE  FOR  ABOVE 

One  cupful  of  milk  heated  to  boiling  point  and  thick- 
ened with  1  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  or  2  of  flour. 
Add  liquor  of  salmon  and  butter  if  not  rich  enough, 
1  raw  egg,  1  teaspoonful  tomato  catsup,  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  sour 
cucumber  pickle.  Rub  egg  in  last  and  very  carefully. 
Heat  one  minute.  Turn  fish  from  mold  on-  heated 
platter  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it.  Serve  at  once. 
This  sauce  can  be  made  for  other  fish.  The  egg  may 
be  added  after  gravy  is  removed  from  the  stove. 

BAKED  TROUT     (Very  Good) 

Cut  off  fins  with  scissors,  or  with  a  sharp  knife 
(paring).  The  backbone  with  all  the  other  bones  can 
be  easily  slipped  out,  after  loosening  the  flesh  from 
them  with  knife,  cut  off  the  head.  Lay  an  old  toaster 
on  bottom  of  dripping  pan  (one  without  handles), 
well  greased,  both  pan  and  toaster.  Lay  fish  open  and 
flat,  skin  side  down.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  and  dredge  with  flour.  Baste  with  milk  or  cream 
two  or  three  times  while  baking.  Bake  till  golden 
brown. 

Can  be  served  with  sauce  for  salmon  loaf  or  cream 
gravy,  or  tomato  sauce.  Time,  about  three-fourths 
to  one  hour. 


28  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

STUFFING  FOR  BAKED  FISH 

One  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  saltspoonful  salt, 
1  saltspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  pickles,  1  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  pars- 
ley, 1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  capers,  Yz  cup  melted 
butter.     This  is  dry  stuffing. 

Stuff  the  fish  after  cleaning  thoroughly.  Cut  one 
or  more  gashes,  put  in  slices  of  bacon  in  gashes.  Put 
a  skewer  or  cord  through  to  make  it  stand  in  form 
of  the  letter  "S."  Put  on  a  rest  such  as  an  old  toaster, 
well  greased.  Wrap  paraffin  paper  around  the  tail. 
Cut  off  fins  with  scissors.  The  fish  is  supposed  to  ap- 
pear as  though  swimming.  Surround  the  platter  with 
any  nice  sauce.  Baste  very  often  with  milk  or  little 
butter  and  hot  water. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE     (This  is  nice  for  fish) 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  juice  of  J4 
lemon,  1  saltspoonful  of  salt,  ^  saltspoonful  cayenne 
pepper,  Yz  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Rub  butter  to  a  cream,  add  yolk,,  one  at  a  time,  and 
beat  well.  Add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  About 
five  minutes  before  serving,  add  boiling  water.  Place 
bowl  in  double  boiler.  Stir  rapidly  until  like  boiled 
custard. 

Pour  around  meat  or  fish. 

PERCH 

To  fry  or  bake,  the  latter  is  better.  Soak  in  cold 
water  a  half  hour,  then  skin  (they  skin  very  easily), 
and  put  in  cold  water  slightly  salted.  Lay  on  a  towel 
and  dry  off  a  little.  If  to  be  kept  till  next  day,  salt 
and  lay  plate  right  on  the  ice.  Roll  in  flour,  or  ^%%  and 
bread  crumbs,  season  and  either  fry  or  bake  a  rich 
brown. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  29 

BROILED  MACKREL 

Soak  mackerel  over  night  in  cold  water.  Change 
water  before  retiring.  In  the  morning,  wipe  off  and 
broil  on  well  greased  broiler;  if  using  gas,  light  it  a 
few  minutes  before  so  that  broiler  will  be  heated. 
Charcoal  broilers  can  be  bought  which  are  very  good, 
as  they  can  be  used  with  or  without  a  fire  in  the  range. 
Serve  on  platter  with  white  or  other  sauce. 

BOILED  TROUT 

It  is  necessary  to  have  a  regular  fish  pan.  It  takes 
about  the  same  time  as  to  bake,  or  a  little  longer.  Put 
on  in  cold  water  and  boil  very  gently.  A  little  vinegar, 
red  pepper  and  salt  may  be  added  to  the  water. 
Steaming  is  more  delicate  than  boiling. 

CANNED  SALMON     (Salmon  Souffle) 

Free  one  can  of  salmon  from  all  skin  and  center 
bone.  Put  in  cake  bowl  and  rub  smooth,  add  to  it 
the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  beat  and  season  with  a 
little  paprika,  salt  and  butter.  Last  add  the  beaten 
whites.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Canned  corn  and  mashed  potatoes  may  be  prepared 
the  same  way.    Milk  may  be  added  to  any  of  these. 

The  potatoes  are  often  called  potato  puff  or  puffs 
if  fried  like  croquettes. 

CREAMED  SALT  COD  FISH 

Put  cod  fish  to  soak  over  night  in  cold  water  or  very 
early  in  the  morning.  Change  water  and  set  on  back 
of  range.  Let  it  come  almost  to  a  boil  and  cover  and 
keep  hot  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  and  separate  into 
small  pieces,  removing  skin  and  bones,  if  any,  leaving 
nothing  but  the  nice,  clean  flakes. 


80  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Put  into  white  sauce  and  serve.  Delicious  with 
toast  or  baked  potatoes.    Nice  for  an  invalid. 

COD  FISH  BALLS 

Prepare  fish  as  above,  only  shred  a  little  finer,  add 
to  it  the  same  amount  of  mashed  potatoes  and  an  tgg 
if  liked  or  fish  may  be  added  to  potatoes  and  then 
mash.  Mix  and  form  into  balls.  Fry  on  a  griddle  like 
griddle  cakes  or  in  boiling  fat  like  croquettes.  Other 
fish  can  be  prepared  the  same.  A  little  cream  or  milk 
may  be  added.  Any  left  over  fish  may  be  shredded 
and  escalloped  with  white  sauce,  and  crumbs. 

Cold  cooked  fish  can  be  cut  fine  and  added  to  a  very 
thin  white  sauce  for  fish  soup,  same  as  creamed  soups. 
One  cup  cod  fish  to  1^  quarts  of  milk.  Serve  with 
croutons  or  crackers. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Any  fresh  fish  will  do.  Canned  clams  make  good 
chowder.  Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  and  put  in  layers  in  a 
pudding  dish  with  bits  of  fat  pork,  pepper  and  salt  be- 
tween the  layers.  Some  use  a  few  bread  crumbs  and 
sliced  potatoes  between  the  layers.  Bake  for  about  a 
half  hour,  then  put  on  crust  of  mashed  potatoes  rolled 
with  flour  or  biscuit  dough  and  bake  another  half 
hour.    It  may  be  flavored  with  a  little  onion  cut  fine. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

Make  either  in  baking  dish  or  on  fish  shells,  placed 
in  dripping  pan  or  on  grate  of  the  oven,  a  layer  of 
oysters,  a  few  cracker  crumbs,  white  sauce  and  so  on 
till  dish  is  full.  The  shells  sometimes  only  hold  one 
or  two  layers.     Bake  till  nice  and  brown. 

Oysters  are  nice  fried  plainly  or  rolled  in  egg  and 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  31 

cracker,  one,  two  or  three  together,  or  if  wanted  fancy, 
(pigs  in  blankets),  roll  a  thin  piece  of  bacon  around 
each  large  oyster  and  put  toothpick  through  for  a 
skewer,  then  fry.  May  be  put  in  wire  basket  and 
fried  in  deep  fat. 


32 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


Q 


BEEF 


FORE   QUARTER. 

J.  Fore  ribs   (five  ribs),  considered  a  prime  roast  piece. 

K.  Middle  ribs  (four  ribs),  for  roasts. 

L.  Chuck  ribs,  for  second  choice  roasts. 

M.  Brisket,  for  soups,  corned  beef,  etc. 

N.  Shoulder,  for  pot  roasts,  stews,  soups,  hash,  mince  meat,  etc. 

0.  Sticking  piece   (neck),  for  sausages,  mince  pie  meat,  stock, 

soups,  etc. 
P.      Same  as  O  in  name  and  uses. 
Q.     Cheek. 

HIND   QUARTER. 

A.  Porterhouse  and  sirloin  steaks;  also  choice  roasts. 

B.  Rump,  for  corned  beef,  stews  and  steaks. 

C.  Aitch  bone,  for  pot  roasts,  stews,  etc. 

D.  Round  or  buttock,  for  steaks,  pot  roasts  and  boiling. 

E.  Round,  for  boiling  and  stewing. 

F.  Shin,  for  hashes,  soups,  etc. 

G.  Thick  flank,  for  stews,  corned  and  pressed  beef;  also  a  nice 

boiling  piece. 
H.     Veiny  piece,  for  dried  and  corned  beef. 

1.  Thin  flank,  for  corned  beef,  boiling,  etc. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


33 


"Some  hae  meat,  and  canna  eat, 

And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it; 
But  we  hae  meat  and  we  can  eat. 
And  sae  the  Lord  be  thankit." 

— Burns. 
In  a  beef  there  are  two  fillets,  one  on  each  side  in  each  hind 
quarter,  which  is  the  most  expensive  part  of  the  beef.  The  fillet 
is  the  same  as  the  tenderloin  of  a  porterhouse  steak.  When  the 
fillet  is  taken  out  and  larded  (placed  on  thin  piece  of  board)  the 
porterhouse  is  then  sold  for  club  steak. 

The  plate  or  brisket,  skirt  flank  and  flank  are  not  seen  from 
the  outside  or  given  in  this  cut,  but  are  underneath  and  toward 
the  inside  of  the  beef. 

Besides  the  parts  here  given,  are  the  heart,  tongue,  kidneys 
and  liver,  that  may  be  prepared  in  many  nice  ways.  The  ox  tail 
is  used  for  soup. 

Other  animals  are  cut  nearly  the  same ;  corresponding  parts 
often  have  different  names. 

A  FEW  USES  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  CUTS 

'  Stocks, 
Soups, 

Mince-pie  Meat, 
Hash, 

Bologna  Sausage, 
Broths — very  nutritious. 


Forequarter       ■■ 


Neck 


Shoulder  Piece 


Knuckle  Bone  for  Soup, 
Stews, 
Soups, 

Pot  Roast  (most  common  use), 
^  Mince  Meat. 
■Mostly  for  soups  and  stews. 


Shank 

Chuck    j  ^°^^ll  \  Second  quality. 
Middle  Ribs — Four  ribs  used  for  roasting. 
Fore  Ribs    {  g^sl^aks. 

Corned  Beef, 
Brisket     J    Stews, 


{ 


Spiced  Beef, 
Soups. 
Cross  Ribs— Stews. 
'  Porterhouse  Steak    > 
Sirloin  Steaks  ) 

I  Steaks, 
Rump  •<  Stews, 

(  Corned  Beef. 


Hindquarter      •< 


Choice  Roasts. 


Round  -^ 


Mouse  Round 


AitchBonejStew^.^^,,^ 

Steaks, 

Beef  a  la  Mode, 

Pot  Roasts, 

Stews. 

J  Stews, 

1  Soups. 


Flank  and  Veiny  Piece 


\  Stews, 
Corned  Beef, 
Dried  and  Pressed  Beef. 


34  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


MEATS 


It  is  not  always  the  most  expensive  meats  that  are 
the  most  nutritious,  nor  the  tender  so  much  as  the 
tough.  One  can  save  much  on  the  table  by  carefully 
cooking  and  making  many  palatable  and  nourishing 
dishes  from  the  cheap  meats,  or  by  making  the  expens- 
ive meats  into  dishes  that  will  require  less  of  it  than 
when  cooked  alone,  and  still  supply  the  nourishment 
the  system  demands. 

In  boiling  meats  very  careful  attention  must  be 
paid  to  the  temperature  of  the  water  and  never  use 
salt  till  it  is  done.  Place  fresh  meat  in  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water  (soft  water  is  best),  and  when  it  comes  to 
a  boil,  do  not  skim,  as  this  is  not  dirt  but  one  of  the 
most  nourishing  properties — the  albumen,  and  then 
place  where  it  will  simmer  very  slowly,  constantly  for 
two  or  three  hours.  This  immersion  in  boiling  water 
hardens  the  fibrine  on  the  outside  so  that  it  retains  the 
rich  juices  or  the  nourishment.  Salt  extracts  the 
juices,  hard  boiling  hardens  and  makes  it  very  little 
better  than  leather.  A  heavy  iron  kettle  helps  to  re- 
tain this  lowness  and  evenness  of  temperature,  better 
still  the  fireless  cooker.  Bubbles  should  appear  in 
one  or  two  places  only,  not  all  over  the  top. 

Salt  meat  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water,  this  fresh- 
ens it.  Some  are  improved  by  soaking  in  cold  water 
over  night  and  change  water  in  the  morning,  as  salt 
pork.  Allow  about  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  per 
pound  for  fresh   meat  and  thirty-five  for  salt  meat 


I 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  35 

Modify  this  if  the  quality  demands  it.  Beef  and  mut- 
ton require  less  time  than  veal  and  lamb  which  must 
be  thoroughly  cooked,  also  pork. 

A  pod  of  red  pepper  boiled  with  meat,  will  prevent 
the  unpleasant  odor.  Where  the  housewife  has  gas 
for  cooking  the  temperature  can  be  very  easily  regu- 
lated, but  in  the  country  a  one-burner  coal  oil  stove 
is  the  cheapest  though  not  the  best.  These  can  be  reg- 
ulated with  little  watching.  Easiest  of  all  a  fireless 
cooker. 

Roasting  proper  is  unknown  in  these  days.  The 
name  is  now  applied  to  baked  meats.  Roasting  proper 
is  done  before  the  coals,  turning  and  basting  and  grad- 
ually moving  back  from  the  coals  as  it  nears  comple- 
tion. While  it  is  an  excellent  method  of  cooking  it  is 
a  very  hard  one  and  requires  so  much  time  and  atten- 
tion that  in  these  busy  days,  is  not  practical. 

Roasting  or  baking  in  the  oven  is  much  easier  and 
simpler.  The  oven  must  be  hot,  but  not  so  it  will 
burn.  If  an  open  pan  is  used  the  meat  should  be  set 
up  from  the  bottom  (an  old  toaster  will  do)  and  basted 
very  often. 

Do  not  wash  but  wipe  with  a  dampened  towel.  If 
meat  has  been  kept  too  long,  wash  with  vinegar  or 
dip  into  hot  baking  soda  water,^then  dust  with  flour. 
If  fire  needs  replenishing,  add  only  a  little  fuel  at  a 
time,  much  fuel  will  check  it  too  much.  For  beef  and 
mutton,  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  and  fifteen  min- 
utes longer, — for  pork,  veal  and  lamb  twenty  minutes 
to  the  pound  and  twenty  minutes  longer.  Very  tender 
meats,  eight,  nine,  and  ten  minutes.  When  done  it  is 
a  rich  brown  and  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  covered 
with  a  rich,  brown  gravy  which  should  be  retained 
while  pouring  off  the  fat.  If  left  to  stand  a  few  min- 
utes it  will  settle  so  that  grease  can  be  easily  removed. 
Never   salt  before   cooking  or  while  cooking.     The 


56  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

gravy  is  good  thickened  or  not  thickened,  this  latter  is 
easier  digested.  Season  just  before  serving.  Some 
soak  tough  steaks  or  meats  for  two  hours,  turning 
four  or  five  times,  in  a  plate  of  salad  oil  and  vinegar; 
butter  may  be  substituted  for  the  oil. 

Flavor  of  meat  depends  on  the  age,  the  younger 
animals  have  less  flavor  than  the  older. 

Where  the  most  movement  is  there  is  the  most 
nourishment,  as  the  most  blood  flows  there,  such  as 
the  neck  which  is  best  for  broth.  Sirloin  has  but  lit- 
tle nourishment,  while  round  steak  is  very  nourish- 
ing. The  tenderloin  is  inside  where  there  is  not  so 
much  movement,  it  runs  along  the  back.  The  prime 
rib  roast  is  from  third  to  sixth  rib  and  is  the  very 
best  roast. 

Broiling  and  roasting  are  the  best  ways  of  cooking 
meat  and  should  be  cooked  this  way  for  invalids. 

In  broiling  over  coals  there  is  much  valuable  fat 
wasted,  but  scientists  say  we  make  up  for  the  loss  in 
using  little  fuel  and  retaining  nearly  all  the  nourish- 
ment of  the  meat. 

Pan  broiling  without  grease  is  nearly  as  good  as 
broiling  over  fire.  Wrap  in  paraffin  paper  and  turn 
frequently. 

Meat  to  broil  should  be  tender,  wiped  with  damp 
cloth,  not  washed,  always  placed  on  greased  broiler, 
cleared  of  the  outside  skin  and  fat. 

An  inch  thick  steak  takes  four  to  six  minutes  to 
broil  or  fry.  Temperature  high  at  first  then  lower 
or  move  meat  further  away. 

Meats  of  short  fibre  as  white  of  chicken  and  lamb 
chops  are  best  for  invalids  as  they  are  more  easily  di- 
gested than  meats  of  long  fibre,  also  more  tender. 

When  meat  is  cooked  correctly,  it  is  pink  inside. 

To  fry  meats,  lard  can  be  used,  but  suet  tried  out 
is  cheaper  and  easier  digested.     Soak  suet  for  a  day 


THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  37 

in  cold  water,  changing  once  or  twice  to  remove 
tallowy  taste  (cut  in  small  pieces)  then  put  a  little 
milk  with  it  and  render  very  slowly,  do  not  stir  or 
burn,  just  loosen  from  bottom,  strain  in  cups  or  little 
jars,  excellent  for  all  kinds  of  copking.  If  lard  is 
used,  a  piece  of  raw  potato  fried  first  will  remove  the 
strong  taste. 

To  extract  juice  from  meat,  warm  it,  squeeze  it  out 

with  lemon  squeezer  or  little  fruit  press  and  mix  with 

milk.     If  desired,  it  may  be  warmed  in  double  boiler 

and  seasoned.     Tender  meats  require  quick  cooking 

jyhile  tough  meats  require  long,  slow  cooking. 

If  meat  is  frozen  lay  in  a  warm  room  over  night  or 
put  in  cold  water  for  a  few  hours.  If  cooked  before 
it  is  thawed,  it  will  be  tough.  Never  allow  frozen 
meat  to  thaw  till  just  before  cooking.  Meats  lose 
from  one-fifth  to  one-third  of  their  weight  in  cooking. 
When  meat  is  nicely  cooked  it  is  puffy  and  juicy,  but 
when  not  is  solid,  dry  and  leathery. 

Diseased  meats — measley  pork  is  dotted  with  gray- 
ish spots  and  can  be  detected  with  the  naked  eye.  It 
is  sometimes  used  in  sausage. 

If  meat  has  a  blue  tinge  it  has  tape  worm  parasites. 

If  an  animal  has  died  of  internal  or  contagious  dis- 
ease the  flesh  should  not  be  used,  or  if  it  has  been 
killed  while  suflfering  from  such.  In  tubercular  beef, 
lungs  stick  to  ribs.  The  same  is  true  of  chicken.  In 
turkey  diabetic  liver  is  green. 

Fats  should  be  cooked  at  a  low  temperature,  or 
they  will  irritate  the  bowels  (where  they  are  digested) 
becoming  or  containing  too  much  fatty  acid  glycerine. 
Many  suffer  from  intestinal  indigestion  as  well  as 
from  dyspepsia, — drowsiness  and  loss  of  ambition  are 
symptoms. 

Chowder  is  a  fish  stew. 

Ragout  is  a  high  flavored  stew  and  wine  added. 


38  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK 

Pot-pie  is  a  stew  with  an  upper  crust  baked  in  the 
oven. 

A  braised  stew  is  a  sort  of  an  Irish  stew  baked  in 
oven,  an  oven  stew. 

Fricassee  is  usually  chicken,  cut  in  pieces  stewed, 
then  browned  in  butter  and  smothered  with  a  nice 
gravy. 

Sauteing  is  frying  in  enough  grease  to  prevent 
sticking  and  is  usually  miscalled  frying. 

Just  a  few  meats  and  few  suitable  accompaniments 
for  an  occasional  Sunday  dinner  and  feast  days.  Epi- 
cures made  a  study  of  these  and  we  use  them  to  our 
advantage : 

Roast  beef,  Yorkshire  pudding,  brown  gravy  or 
tomato  sauce.  Horseradish,  mustard  or  pickles  aid  in 
the  digestion  of  beef. 

Roast  pork,  apple  sauce. 

Roast  veal,   dressing,   tomato  sauce,  spinach. 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce,  green  peas,  currant  jelly. 

Fricasseed  chicken,  boiled  rice, — stewed  chicken 
(whole  or  not)  garnished  with  hominy  (fried) — fried 
chicken,  cream  gravy. 

Roast  turkey,  cranberry  sauce  or  currant  jelly, 
green  peas. 

Roast  goose  or  duck,  flavor  stuffing  with  onion  and 
celery  salt,  apple  sauce,  currant  jelly  or  cranberry 
sauce,  green  peas. 

Venison,  currant  jelly. 

Stewed  mutton,  turnips,  tomato  sauce. 

Corned  Beef,  cabbage,  cucumber  catsup,  mustard 
or  any  tart  sauce. 

Liver  and  bacon,  horseradish  and  fried  onions.  The 
fresh  bacon  or  new  pork  is  nice  with  liver. 

Tomatoes  are  good  with  nearly  all  kinds  of  meat. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  nice  with  roasts.  •  ^ 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  39 

A  fruit  or  vegetable  salad  goes  well  with  a  heavy- 
dinner. 

Irish  potatoes  mashed  are  nice  with  fowls. 

Garnishes  for  Platter,  parsley,  lemon  sliced  thin, 
beets,  cottage  cheese,  carrots,  dumplings  (can  be  used 
as  a  garnish  for  stews),  fried  potatoes  (French)  or 
potato  balls. 

BROILED  STEAK 

(Use  this  same  rule  for  other  broiled  meats,  only 
steak  takes  less  time). 

If  burning  wood  in  the  range,  have  a  good  bed  of 
live  coals.  Grease  the  gridiron  or  broiler  well  with 
butter  or  suet  from  the  steak.  Place  a  thick,  tender 
steak  upon  it  and  when  done  on  one  side,  place  it  upon 
a  warmed,  buttered  platter,  without  pressing  it  so 
that  the  juices  will  run  on  the  platter;  quickly  put 
it  back  on  the  broiler  and  cook  the  other  side.  If 
steak  gets  dry,  keep  putting  on  melted  beef  fat  or  if 
inclined  to  burn,  move  it  a  little  away  from  heat. 
When  done,  put  on  the  platter  again  and  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  put  where  it  will  keep 
warm  for  a  few  moments.  Heat  the  plates  for  serv- 
ing. If  five  or  six  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  are  put 
on  platter  before  meat,  it  makes  a  fair  gravy.  Never 
season  before  cooking. 

Some  prefer  to  sear  one  side,  turn  quickly  and  sear 
the  other  and  turning  often  till  done.  Do  not  stick 
with  the  fork  while  turning  as  it  lets  the  juices  out. 

Where  the  double  toaster  is  used,  it  is  easily  turned, 
otherwise  a  small  pair  of  tongs  is  better  than  a  fork, — 
cdndy  tongs  will  do. 

Some  like  a  little  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  it 
and  some  lemon  juice  dropped  here  and  there. 

After  browning,  it  can  be  moved  just  a  little  from 
the  coals  so  that  the  center  will  cook,  or,  place  on 


40  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

warm  platter  and  set  in  oven  quickly,  if  not  too  hot. 

If  broiling  underneath  the  oven  of  a  gas  range, 
light  the  oven  about  ten  minutes  before  needed.  This 
is  an  excellent  method  for  a  very  thick  steak  only  it 
requires  about  twice  as  much  time.  The  gas  can  be 
lowered  after  browning.    Plates  should  be  warmed. 

Charcoal  is  very  much  used  for  broiling  meats ;  a 
handful  will  broil  a  pound  of  steak. 

FRIED  STEAK 

The  secret  of  frying  steak  as  all  other  fried  foods  is 
to  have  the  grease  so  hot  it  will  sear  the  outside  at 
once,  and  at  the  same  time  seal  up  the  juices.  This 
searing  makes  it  so  it  will  not  absorb  the  grease.  Have 
plenty  oi  fat,  the  more  the  better;  it  can  be  poured 
off  and  used  again  if  one  is  careful  and  not  scorch  it. 
Brown  both  sides  of  steak  and  move  to  a  cooler  part 
of  the  range  to  finish.  Cover  towards  the  last,  to 
thoroughly  heat  the  steak  through.  Some  prefer  it 
not  covered.    Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  on  hot  plates. 

After  pouring  off  the  grease,  pour  nearly  all  the 
gravy  over  the  meat,  then  add  from  one-half  to  one 
cup  hot  water  and  stir  well  while  cooking,  so  as  to 
get  all  the  juice  from  bottom  of  frying  pan,  and  pour 
this  over  also.  This  last  may  be  thickened  by  adding 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  butter  before  the 
water,  but  it  is  easier  digested  unthickened,  and  may 
be  poured  over  the  steak  or  put  in  the  gravy  bowl. 
This  latter  when  mixed  with  the  juices  from  steak 
which  run  while  serving,  is  called  platter  gravy  and 
is  the  best  kind  of  gravy. 

SMOTHERED  ROUND  STEAK 
(Excellent  for  invalids) 
Trim  off  the  outside  skin  and  fat.     Cut  in  pieces 
just  large  enough  to  serve  each  person  on  a  piece--^* 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  41 

toast.  Roll  these  pieces  in  flour  and  brown  in  butter 
in  frying  pan.  Part  of  the  suet  from  the  steak  may  be 
rendered  in  the  pan  before  putting  butter  in.  Pick 
out  the  stringy  pieces.  After  simply  browning  both 
sides  of  the  steak,  add  3  teacups  of  boiling  water  or 
little  less  to  the  pound.  Move  to  back  of  range,  cover 
tightly  and  let  siinmer  very,  very,  slowly  from  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours,  turning  over  when  about  half 
done.  Serve  on  platter  of  toast  or  by  itself.  A  little 
more  flour  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  or  a  little  sweet 
cream.     Season  just  before  placing  on  platter. 

An  onion  which  has  been  carefully  prepared,  may 
be  browned  with  it.  Very  nice  served  with  baked 
potatoes. 

If  meat  is  very  tough,  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  This  is 
a  very  nourishing  and  cheap  dish  and  it  is  delicious. 


POT  ROAST 

(An  easier  method  than  the  old  fashioned  one) 

Almost  the  same  as  above,  only  more  meat  is  re- 
quired and  left  in  one  chunk  and  vegetables  (onions, 
carrots,  etc.)  are  browned  with  it.  An  iron  kettle  is 
used  instead  of  frying  pan.  Add  peeled  potatoes  about 
an  hour  before  serving.  Simmer  about  three  hours 
after  browning.  Brown  in  fat  which  has  been  cut  off 
the  meat. 

BROILED  HAM 

Trim  ofif  considerable  of  the  fat;  freshen  a  little  if 
too  salt,  dry  with  towel.  A  few  thin  or  chopped  pieces 
of  the  fat  may  be  spread  on  top.  Broil  till  a  rich 
brown.  This  method  requires  a  good  grade  of  ham. 
Two  sHces  ought  to  serve  six  people. 


42  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  HAM  NO.  1    (Sliced) 

Cut  off  all  the  fat  and  chop  in  chopping  bowl  or  put 
it  through  a  meat  chopper,  using  the  coarsest  knife. 
Spread  over  the  slices  of  lean,  adding  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar  to  sprinkle  each  slice.  Season  with 
a  little  pepper  and  bake  one-half  hour  in  a  brisk  oven, 

BAKED  HAM  NO.  2    (With  sweet  potatoes) 

If  family  is  large,  it  is  well  to  get  a  whole  ham,  if 
not,  get  what  is  needed.  If  very  salt,  put  on  in  cold 
water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  a  little  soda  just 
before  changing  water, — it  seems  to  clean  it. 

Now  cover  the  second  time  with  hot  water  from 
the  tea  kettle.  Place  on  back  of  range  and  let  boil 
very,  very  slowly  from  two  to  four  hours,  according 
to  amount  of  ham ;  it  cannot  boil  too  slowly.  Take 
up  and  peel  off  all  the  skin.  Have  some  sweet  potatoes 
parboiled  and  skinned.  Put  in  dripping  pan  and  bake 
one  to  two  hours,  basting  very  often.  If  one  has  a 
double  roaster,  all  the  better. 

The  pieces  of  ham  skin  can  be  laid  over  the  potatoes 
for  a  while.  This  dish  can  be  made  with  the  shank 
end  of  ham,  costing  from  25  to  50  cents.  If  shank  is 
too  large  the  butcher  will  cut  off  a  slice  or  two  which 
can  be  kept  two  or  three  days  for  another  meal. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BOILED  DINNER 

Get  the  shank  end  of  a  ham,  a  small  piece  of  corned 
beef  and  a  small  piece  of  fresh  beef;  a  pound  of  each 
will  serve  six  people. 

For  each  person  prepare  a  small  section  of  cabbage, 
a  small  piece  of  carrot  or  two,  a  piece  of  turnip,  two 
small  onions,  or  one  medium,  and  two  medium  sized 
potatoes  peeled.     Scrape  the  ham  nice  and  clean  or 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK  43 

clean  in  hot  baking  soda  water.  Have  the  meats  sim- 
mering about  two  hours  before  putting  in  vegetables. 
Allow  about  one  hour  and  a  half  for  the  turnips  and 
carrots,  all  the  rest  require  one  hour  of  moderate 
boiling.  A  large  heavy  iron  kettle  is  best.  It  may  be 
all  taken  up  together  on  large  platter,  or  the  potatoes 
may  be  separated  from  the  rest. 

Nothing  but  a  simple  dessert  is  required  with  this 
dinner. 

CORNED  BEEF  AND  CABBAGE 

If  corn  beef  is  very  salty,  soak  over  night  in  cold 
water,  or  put  over  in  cold  water  early  in  the  morning 
and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  change  water,  putting  the 
second  water  on  hot  from  the  tea  kettle,  then  simmer 
very  slowly  four  to  six  hours,  according  to  size  of 
piece.  If  to  be  served  cold,  take  out  before  putting 
in  cabbage  and  put  in  a  small  deep  dish,  putting  some 
of  its  own  liquor  around  it;  let  it  stand  in  this  till  it 
gets  cold  or  all  night.  If  it  is  all  to  be  used  at  once, 
cabbage  can  be  cooked  with  it,  but  must  be  cooked 
slowly.  It  is  better  to  remove  beef  as  cabbage  should 
be  cooked  a  little  faster. 

TO  CORN  BEEF 

To  10  pounds  of  beef,  use  saltpetre  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  1  tablespoonful  brown  sugar  and  a  brine  of 
rock  salt  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Let  brine 
stand  for  two  days  and  skim  before  putting  it  on  the 
beef  and  skim  every  two  or  three  days  after.  This 
is  for  winter  use.  If  weather  turns  warm,  the  brine 
can  be  drained  off,  scalded  and  cooled.  Return  and 
skim  as  before.  The  beef  is  ready  for  use  in  ten  days. 
Large,  well  glazed  stone  jars  are  best.  Ten  pound 
pieces  are  a  nice  size  for  cooking. 


U  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  HAMBURG 

One  pound  Hamburg  steak,  1  cup  boiled  rice,  1  cup 
tomatoes,  ^  cup  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  granite  bak- 
ing pan,  nearly  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  in  moderate 
oven.     When  medium  brown  on  top,  it  is  done. 

Cream  of  wheat  or  other  food  left  from  breakfast, 
may  be  added.  A  little  chopped  parsley  or  onion 
browned,  adds  much  to  the  flavor.  Paprika  may  be 
used  instead  of  pepper. 

CREAM   DRIED    BEEF   ON   TOAST 

Ten  cents  worth  of  dried  beef  will  make  two  meals 
for  four.  Tear  the  beef  or  rather  shred  or  chop  it 
fine,  taking  out  the  skin  and  strips  of  tallow.  Place 
in  heavy  spider,  add  a  good  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  let  melt  adding  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir, 
then  add  slowly  2  to  2^  cups  of  milk,  stirring  till 
smooth  and  thick.  Pour  over  platter  of  toast.  Excellent. 
This  may  be  served  without  toast,  with  baked  pota- 
toes. 

CREAMED  HAM  ON  TOAST 

The  remnants  of  a  boiled  ham  may  be  chopped 
coarsely  and  served  the  same  way  as  above. 

CREAMED  MEAT  (Sort  of  Souffle.) 

An  egg  beaten  separately  and  about  1}^  or  2  cups  of 
chopped  meat  of  any  kind,  may  be  added  to  the 
white  sauce  for  creamed  dried  beef  and  baked  in  the 
oven  slowly  one  hour.    Bread  crumbs  may  be  added. 

CREAMED  BACON 

Brown  bacon  nice  and  crisp,  not  burn,  fry  it  slowly. 
Place  on  platter,,  drain  off  grease  all  but  enough  to 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  45 

saturate  smoothly  a  good  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add 
2  to  2^  cups  milk  slowly  and  stir  till  thick;  season 
with  pepper  and  pour  over  bacon.  A  little  butter  may 
be  added  before  creaming.  For  an  invalid,  after 
browning  the  bacon,  lay  on  white  paper  in  the  oven 
about  two  or  three  minutes,  to  drain  the  grease  well. 
Serve  dry  on  dry  or  buttered  toast.  Half  water  in- 
stead of  milk  may  be  used.  This  last  is  an  excellent 
garnish  for  vegetable  salad. 

BEEF  STEW,  WITH  PEAS 

One  pound  from  the  neck  of  beef.  Cut  in  about  six 
pieces,  brown  in  butter,  add  one-half  can  of  peas,  two 
medium  sized  carrots,  cut  in  strips,  cover  with  hot 
water  and  simmer  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours,  and 
serve. 

IRISH  STEW  (Delicious.    Easy  to  Make.) 

Two  and  a  half  or  three  pounds  of  meat  will  make  a 
good  dinner  for  about  eight  people.  Scraps  of  steak 
or  roast  beef,  carefully  trimmed  and  cut  with  a  pound 
of  fresh  round  steak,  or  a  piece  of  the  neck  will  do, 
instead  of  buying  all  fresh  meat.  Leave  the  steak 
bones  in  till  just  before  thickening,  first  putting  them 
on  in  cold  water^  and  when  this  is  just  about  to  boil, 
add  the  meat,  set  back  and  simmer.  Much  valuable 
nourishment  is  thus  drawn  out  of  the  bones.  The 
fat  and  gristle  should  be  removed  and  meat  cut  in 
^  to  1  inch  cubes.  Fry  the  fat  in  spider  and  brown 
the  vegetables,  cutting  the  carrots  in  strips,  turnips 
in  dice,  onions  crosswise,  three  or  four  times,  then 
slice.  Put  vegetables  in  about  one  hour  or  little  bet- 
ter, before  serving,  slice  the  potatoes  or  quarter  them, 
and  put  in  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour  before.  If 
dumplings  are  made,  allow  about  fifteen  minutes, 
keeping  well  covered  with  cozies. 


46  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Put  meat  and  vegetables  in  center  of  platter  and 
garnish  with  the  dumplings  or  half  biscuits  instead. 

Avoid  getting  in  too  many  vegetables.  Taking  all 
together  about  what  would  make  an  individual  vege- 
table dish  for  each  one,  if  vegetables  were  served 
separately. 

For  supper,  the  above  can  be  made  lighter  by  serv- 
ing on  platter  of  toast  without  dumplings.  When 
made  without  dumplings,  it  needs  a  little  thickening. 
Can  be  made  much  simpler  and  be  very  good.  The 
secret  of  it  is  to  simmer  and  not  boil.  A  small  hand- 
ful of  oatmeal  put  in  when  meat  is  piit  over  adds  to 
the  nourishment. 

POT  PIE 

This  can  be  made  with  veal  alone,  chicken  or  any 
nice  meat.  It  can  be  also  made  similar  to  the  Irish 
stew  with  left  over  meat,  and  adding  a  little  fresh 
meat.  Meat  can  be  used  alone  or  with  a  flavoring  of 
vegetables.  Cut  up  small  and  simmer  as  the  Irish 
stew  is  made,  then  put  in  a  deep  baking  dish  and 
cover  with  a  biscuit  crust,  or  a  mashed  potato  crust 
rolled  out  with  flour.  Bake  a  rich  brown  in  moderate 
oven.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish.  Veal  stew  which  is 
made  by  cutting  a  pound  or  two  of  veal  into  six  or 
more  pieces  makes  a  good  pot  pie. 

BAKED   MEATS   (Miscalled  Roasted.) 

A  heavy  frying  pan,  an  iron  kettle,  a  dripping  pan 
or  best  of  all  a  good  double  roaster  made  with  two 
covers,  the  inside  part  and  cover  made  of  a  finer  ma- 
terial than  the  outside.  Most  of  them  are  made  with 
a  material  that  is  very  trying  to  take  care  of.  It  is 
well  to  clean  and  dry  thoroughly,  then  grease  and 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK   BOOK  47 

wrap  in  newspaper,  before  putting  away.  If  used 
once  or  twice  a  week,  this  latter  is  not  necessary.  The 
temperature  of  oven  must  be  very  high  at  first,  even 
if  using  double  roaster,  it  is  well  to  set  the  meat  in 
uncovered  for  ten  minutes,  to  sear  the  outside.  Do 
not  salt  till  nearly  time  to  serve ;  salt  toughens.  A 
little  suet  can  be  rendered  in  pan  first  or  use  some 
that  has  been  rendered ;  brown  the  meat  all  over  in  it, 
on  top  of  the  stove  or  turn  it  in  the  oven  for  the  first 
ten  minutes.  Some  use  half  a  cup  of  hot  water,  but 
it  is  not  necessary.  A  tiny  roast  can  be  made  on  top 
of  the  gas  or  range,  in  the  frying  pan,  by  first  brown- 
ing, then  lower  temperature  and  cover  tightly  with  a 
granite  cake  tin  to  fit,  turned  upside  down ;  this  will 
keep  it  basted.  Put  cozies  over  it.  Roast  pork  is  nice 
with  an  onion  cut  over  it  and  a  little  flour.  The  secret 
of  all  delicious  roasts  is  plenty  of  basting  and  the 
right  heat,  first  high,  then  moderate.  The  double 
roasters  do  their  own  basting.  Two  round  granite 
pans,  one  turned  upside  down  to  fit,  makes  a  fair  im- 
itation for  a  little  roast. 

In  making  the  gravy,  add  flour  before  the  hot 
water  and  stir  till  smooth,  trying  to  get  all  of  the 
good  stuff  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  by  making  it 
slowly,  stirring  well  from  the  bottom,  season,  add  a 
little  cream  or  rich  milk.  The  gravy  is  nice  and 
easier  to  digest  without  thickening.  Simply  add  a 
little  hot  water,  stirring  well.  The  platter  gravy  or 
juice  that  comes  from  cutting,  is  the  best  kind  of 
gravy. 

Roast  is  nice  warmed  over  whole  or  sliced  and  laid 
in  the  gravy  and  just  warmed  through.  It  may  all 
be  fixed  nicely  in  a  baking  dish  and  placed  in  steamer. 

Dressing  for  veal  may  be  steamed  half  an  hour  or 
more  and  then  baked  about  twenty  minutes,  basting 
with  the  veal  dripping  that  bastes  the  veal. 


48  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

CROQUETTES 

Take  any  cold  roast  meat  or  even  boiled,  chop  it 
fine  or  put  through  grinder.  Moisten  with  rich  milk 
or  cold  gravy.  Add  1  egg,  1  cup  of  boiled  rice, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  or  sage.  Roll  in 
cylinders  or  patties,  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  deep  boiling  fat,  with  wire 
basket,  as  doughnuts.  Rice  may  be  left  out.  The 
above  may  be  made  a  little  more  moist  and  dropped 
from  a  spoon  on  hot  griddle  and  bake  as  pancakes. 

MOCK  DUCK  OR  STUFFED  STEAK 

Take  a  round  or  flank  steak,  spread  with  your 
favorite  stuffing,  roll  up  and  tie  with  grocer's  twine. 
Have  a  dripping  pan  ready  with  some  hot  beef  fat. 
Place  in  oven  and  baste  often.  Bake  about  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour  or  little  less^  or  bake  in  double 
roaster,  and  prepare  fat  just  the  same  as  for  drip- 
ping pan.  Make  the  gravy  as  for  other  roasts.  A 
thin  piece  or  two  of  thin  pork  or  bacon  is  nice,  laid 
over  the  top  to  flavor  and  baste  it. 

STEWED  BEEFSTEAK 

Stew  a  good,  thick  rump  steak  in  1^  cups  of 
water,  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  1  blade  of  mace, 
1  onion  with  3  cloves  stuck  in;  simmer  about  two 
hours.  Thicken  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  rtibbed 
in  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  lemon  juice,  either  at  first  or  last.  Brown  the 
meat  in  butter  in  frying  pan  and  after  putting  on 
platter,  add  the  juice  to  the  frying  pan  and  pour 
over  the  steak. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  49 

HASH 

Any  cold  meat  can  be  used  for  hash  and  a  littlje 
corn  beef  or  ham  added,  flavors  it  nicely.  Corn  beef 
or  ham  alone  or  together  make  a  delicious  hash.  It 
requires  almost  twice  as  much  potatoes  in  bulk  as 
meat.  The  meat  requires  more  chopping  than  the 
potatoes.  Moisten  well  with  hot  water  and  rich  milk, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  chopped  onion.  If  not 
sufficient  potatoes,  use  chopped  bread.  A  little  of 
any  vegetable  left  over,  may  be  used  for  flavoring,  or 
a  little  of  the  stuffing  from  fowls,  also  the  cold  gravy. 
Put  in  hot  iron  spider  and  bake  about  a  half  hour 
or  till  a  nice  brown  on  top.  Serve  on  a  platter  of 
toast  or  if  baked,  in  a  nice  shallow  granite  pan,  it 
can  be  served  in  same.  The  pressed  corn  beef  may  be 
used  but  not  so  nice  as  the  home  cooked. 

STEAMED  VEAL  LOAF 

Chop  or  have  butcher  put  through  the  grinder, 
2  pounds  veal,  either  from  leg,  loin  or  steak,  with  2 
thin  slices  of  good  bacon  or  little  better.  Roll  4  or 
5  crackers  (Uneeda  Biscuit).  Add  these  to  veal  with 
1  ^SS'}  season  with  pepper,  paprika  and  very  little 
salt.  Mix  well  together  and  pack  into  baking  powder 
cans.  Grease  cans  and  dust  with  rolled  crackers. 
Steam  about  two  hours.  Serve  on  platter  with  white 
or  tomato  sauce  flavored  with  the  little  juice  that 
comes  from  the  veal  after  steaming.  The  spiced 
pudding  can  be  made  and  started  one  hour  sooner,  or 
more  veal  can  be  prepared,  it  is  nice  sliced  cold.  This 
makes  two  one  pound  baking  powder  can  loaves. 
Bread  crumbs  may  be  used  instead  of  crackers.  A 
little  milk  may  be  added  also,  enough  to  make  it 
moist.  Warm  before  putting  in  steamer  with  brown 
bread. 


60  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

VEAL  JELLY  LOAF 

Two  pounds  veal  steak  and  a  veal  shank  or  soup 
bone.  Put  the  shank  over  in  cold  water,  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  veal  steak,  let  come  to  a 
boil  again,  then  simmer  two  hours  or  more  till  the 
bone  separates  from  the  meat,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Pick  out  the  best  pieces  of  meat  and  lay  in 
a  granite  loaf  tin,  strain  liquor  over  it  and  set  away 
to  jell.    Some  like  the  juice  of  a  lemon  added. 

The  part  in  the  strainer  and  the  bones  can  be  put 
with  the  soup  meat,  as  all  the  virtue  is  npt  out  of 
it.  The  veal  must  be  washed  several  times  and  then 
examine  very  closely  for  fear  of  hair. 

PORK  STEAK  AND  PORK  CHOPS 

Put  in  heavy  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  oven  till  a 
rich  brown,  turning  two  or  three  times,  season,  make 
gravy  after  pouring  of¥  considerable  of  the  grease. 
Some  like  a  little  sage,  or  chopped  onion  sprinkled 
over  it  while   baking. 

HAMBURG  PATTIES 

Simply  form  meat  into  patties  with  knife  and  palm 
of  hand  or  press  into  a  sort  of  loaf  and  slice,  or 
press  it  in  the  shape  of  a  large  pancake,  only  thicker. 
Brown  on  both  sides  with  a  little  onion  cut  around 
and  over  it,  then  move  to  back  and  cover  or  uncover, 
but  let  stand  a  few  minutes  for  center  to  cook.  I  lace 
on  platter  and  set  pan  back  on  fire  to  brown  gravy; 
add  a  little  hot  water  to  gravy  and  pour  over  meat. 
Season  both  before  removing  from  stove.  The  same 
can  be  dipped  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs. 

Onions  may  be  sliced  over  top  of  patties  and  placed 
in  the  hot  frying  pan   in  which  some  beef  fat  has 


THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  51 

been  heated  and  bake    in    oven    fifteen    to    twenty- 
minutes.    . 

SPRING  CHICKEN 

This  is  used  for  frying  but  is  easier  to  cook  and 
better  if  prepared  as  for  frying  and  baked  one  half 
hour  or  Httle  better,  in  a  double  roaster.  A  delicious 
brown  gravy  can  be  made  with  browned  flour  and  a 
little  rich  milk  or  cream  added.  The  pieces  of  chicken 
may  be  rolled  in   flour  before  baking. 

FRICASSEED  CHICKEN 

If  chicken  is  old  and  tough,  put  in  boiling  water 
after  cutting  as  for  fried  chicken  and  simmer  three 
hours  or  more.  Skim  off  chicken  fat  and  put  in  fry- 
ing pan;  add  a  little  piece  of  butter  to  the  chicken 
fat  and  brown  chicken,  after ---rolling  in  flour;  place 
on  platter  and  make  a  gravy  with  the  juice  from 
kettle  poured  over  the  contents  of  frying  pan  which 
has  been  mixed  with  flour.  Add  a  little  cream  or  milk 
if  desired.  Pour  over  chicken  on  platter.  The 
stewed  chicken  is  very  nice  without  browning,  with 
dumplings  or  little  biscuits  placed  round  the  edge  of 
platter  and  the  gravy  thickened  and  poured  over  all. 
A  small  pinch  of  baking  soda  added  when  first  put 
over  will  make  it  more  tender. 

WILD  DUCK 

Split  it  down  the  back,  spread  and  place  on  greased 
broiler.  Broil  and  finish  by  setting  in  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  thoroughly  cook.  Season.  If  soaked  in 
cold  salt  water  a  few  minutes,  it  removes  a  little  of  the 
strong,  gamey  flavor  but  should  be  rinsed  and  wiped 
dry  before  placing  on  the  broiler. 


52  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

ROAST  SPARE  RIBS    (Fresh) 

Trim  off  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across  the 
middle,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  stuff  with  tur- 
key stuffing,  sew  or  tie  with  grocer's  twine  rather 
tightly.  Bake  and  baste  very  often.  Browned  po- 
tatoes can  be  cooked  with  them.  If  two  pieces  of 
ribs,  one  can  be  fitted  to  the  other  so  as  to  hold  the 
dressing.  Bake  very  brown.  Strain  off  grease  before 
making  gravy.  Turn  once  during  baking.  The  ribs 
can  be  cut  finer  and  baked  like  spring  chicken  or 
boiled  with  cabbage  or  sauerkraut.  They  are  nice 
salted  and  cooked  with  cabbage  or  rutabagas. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK    (Creamed) 

Slice  thin  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  an  hour. 
Drain  and  dry  on  towel;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  a  good 
brown.  Place  on  warm  platter  and  pour  most  of 
grease  from  frying  pan,  add  a  tablespoonful  or  more 
of  flour,  stir  well  in  remaining  grease,  add  2  cups  of 
new  milk  (fresh),  stir  till  smooth,  let  boil  up  and 
pour  over  pork.  Nice  served  on  toast  or  with  baked 
potatoes  for  breakfast  or  luncheon.  Either  pork  or 
bacon  is  nice  fried  and  served  with  fried  circles  of 
apples  without  peeling,  cut  nearly  one-half  inch  thick. 

ROAST  PIG 

Take  a  little  pig  six  weeks  old,  dress  nicely  and 
score  or  gash  in  squares,  with  a  knife ;  stuff  with 
turkey  stuffing  and  sew  up  neatly.  Place  on  knees 
in  pan;  baste  very  often  and  turn  once  so  that  both 
sides  bake  even.  Have  pan  hot  with  some  tried-out 
dripping  as  for  other  roasts.  Some  stuff  with  salted 
corn  meal  scalded,  rubbed  smooth  and  baked,  then 
broken  and  seasoned  with   butter,  pepper,  salt  and 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  53 

onion  or  sage.    Put  a  piece  of  red  pepper  in  the  pan 
with  the  pig. 

HAM  AND  EGGS 

Let  ham  simmer  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water, 
brown  in  a  greased  hot  frying  pan.  Fry  eggs  in  the 
hot  ham  grease,  basting  with  the  gravy.  Do  not 
turn.  Place  on  top  of  ham  pieces;  add  about  one- 
half  cup  or  more  of  boiling  water  to  the  gravy  and 
pour  over  all.     Delicious. 

Another  way  is  to  brown  ham  first,  then  pour  over 
it  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  cover  and  let  simmer 
about  fifteen  minutes.  If  eggs  are  used  they  must  be 
fried  in  another  pan  in  some  of  the  ham  fat. 

BACON 

Serve  the  same  as  ham  and  eggs,  only  fry  it  very 
slowly  so  as  not  to  blacken,  and  do  not  simmer, 

MEAT  SMOTHERED  IN  ONIONS 

Most  any  of  the  fried  meats  may  be  smothered 
with  onions.  Follow  rules  for  fried  onions,  adding 
to  them  the  gravy  from  meat.  Steak  is  especially 
good  this  way. 

STEWED  MUTTON 

Following  the  principles  of  stewing  meats  and  add 
5^  can  or  more  of  tomatoes  about  a  half  hour  before 
serving.  Thicken  and  season.  Neck  of  mutton  is 
good.    It  may  be  cut  in  chunks  small  enough  to  serve. 

FRIED  LIVER 

Dip  in  boiling  water  for  just  a  second,  then  put  into 
fried  cake  kettle  which  is  ready  with  a  goodly  amount 
of  hot  dripping  (bacon  preferred).    Put  cover  on  and 


54  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 

fry  slowly  for  about  fifteen  minutes  or  till  brown.  A 
deep  iron  spider  will  do.  Put  on  platter  and  pour 
gravy  over  with  or  without  thickening.  Another 
method  is  to  soak  in  cold  water  one  hour,  dry,  dip  in 
melted  dripping  and  broil  slowly. 

PIGS'  FEET  SOUSE. 

Thoroughly  clean  and  trim  pigs'  feet,  parboil,  skim- 
ming once  or  twice ;'  throw  this  first  water  away.  Pour 
plenty  of  boiling  water  over  and  let  simmer  three  or 
four  hours  with  very  little  salt.  Take  out  and  pack 
in  jar  with  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt.  They  may  be 
served  cold  or  hot  by  heating  in  a  little  fresh  vinegar. 

Another  way  is  to  remove  bones  (and  skins  also  if 
one  wishes)  pack  meat  in  granite  loaf  tins  or  jars. 
Then  pour  over  them  a  little  of  the  liquor  boiled  with 
vinegar,  sugar  and  spices.  To  1  loaf  (1  pound  tin 
size)  use  about  1  pint  of  vinegar,  Yz  cup  of  sugar. 
Put  in  a  little  white  cloth  bag,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  Let  spices,  vinegar 
and  sugar  boil  about  fifteen  minutes  before  adding  to 
liquor,  then  boil  all  together,  two  or  three  minutes. 
Taste  and  if  too  weak,  add  more  vinegar;  if  too 
strong,  add  more  of  the  liquor.  Better  a  little  too 
strong  as  the  meat  takes  much  of  the  vinegar.  Pour 
over  meat  and  keep  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  or 
so,  as  it  jells  so  quickly  the  meat  does  not  get  time 
to  absorb  the  dressing.  Slice  cold  as  any  cold  meat 
loaf. 

PIG'S  HEAD   CHEESE 

Having  well  cleaned  a  pig's  head,  split  it  in  two, 
take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brain.  Clean  the  ears  or 
trim  part  away.     Throw  scalding  water  over  outside 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  55 

and  scrape  very  thoroughly,  cutting  off  what  can't  be 
cleaned.  The  end  of  the  nose  can  be  thrown  away. 
Let  boil  very  slowly  till  the  meat  loosens  from  the 
bones.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  put  in  chopping 
bowl,  pick  out  bones,  chop,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  pack  in  jar  or  pan  (loaf  granite).  Slice  cold 
as  meat  doaf.  A  little  vinegar  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. Another  method  is  to  take  meat  after  it  is 
chopped  and  mix  with  it  corn  meal  which  has  been 
steamed  in  double  boiler  at  least  one  hour.  This  can 
be  warmed  and  serve  as  hash  with  toast  for  break- 
fast.    This  last  is  called  scrapple. 

SAUSAGE 

Ten  pounds  of  meat,  about  2^^  quarts  when  chop- 
ped (fresh  pork),  fat  and  lean  just  as  it  is,  and  the 
fatter  the  better;  remove  stringy  parts,  cut  small  then 
chop  fine  or  put  through  meat  grinder;  5  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sage  (rounding),  4  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  pepper,  the  salt  and  pepper  not 
rounding  but  not  even. 

To  cook — Make  in  thin  patties,  fry  or  bake  brown 
and  then  set  on  toaster  or  perforated  bottom  in  drip- 
ping pan  in  oven.  One  can  drain  on  white  paper  in 
oven,  but  a  waste  of  grease. 

BEEF  HEART  STUFFED 

Put  on  in  cold  water,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  sim- 
mer slowly  several  hours.  If  put  on  after  breakfast, 
it  may  be  stuffed  and  baked  for  supper.  Bake  about 
three-fourths  of  an  hour;  it  may  be  simmered  one 
day  and  baked  the  next.  Veal  heart  will  simmer 
tender  in  two  hours.    Having  stuffing  well  seasoned. 


56  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

ROASTED  DUCK  OR  GOOSE 

Either  the  noon  before  or  the  night  before,  soak  in 
cold  water  enough  to  cover,  with  a  handful  of  salt,  that 
is  after  dressing  nicely.  If  soaked  at  noon  then  after 
supper  drain  and  wipe  with  clean  white  cloths.  Stuff 
with  your  favorite  stuffing,  usually  flavored  with 
onion,  and  sew  neatly.  If  stuffed  at  night  the  flavor- 
ing seems  to  be  more  even,  otherwise  it  can  be  soaked 
all  night  and  stuffed  in  the  morning.  Put  in  a  roaster 
and  with  it  a  whole  lemon  unpeeled.  If  a  double 
roaster,  it  needs  no  more  attention  till  about  one-half 
hour  before  it  is  done  when  the  lemon  should  be 
pricked  with  a  toothpick  and  baste  with  one-half  cup 
of  hot  water  if  not  sufficient  gravy.  If  double  roaster, 
turn  once,  that  is,  turn  the  roaster,  end  for  end.  If 
not,  baste  the  fowl  several  times,  turning  three  or  four 
times.    Serve  with  green  peas  and  apple  sauce. 


THE  HOME-'MAKING   COOK  BOOK  57 


SAUCES,  DRESSINGS,  GRAVIES  AND 
MISCELLANEOUS  ACCOM- 
PANIMENTS 


One  cannot  afford  to  do  without  these,  as  they  are 
economical  and  add  so  much  to  any  dish — they  make 
things  go  further. 

It  takes  half  as  much  cornstarch  as  flour  to  thicken 
anything.  Flour  should  be  cooked  at  least  four  or 
five  minutes  and  cornstarch  longer  by  steaming  after 
thickening,  either  in  double  boiler  or  cover  tightly 
on  back  of  stove.  For  brown  gravy  and  platter  gravy, 
see  roasts  and  fried  steaks.  A  very  nice  fish  sauce  is 
given  after  salmon  loaf. 

White  sauce  and  drawn  butter  sauce  are  founda- 
tions for  many  other  sauces.  It  is  always  well  to 
rinse  out  frying  pan  with  very  hot  water  before  mak- 
ing any  sauce. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

(May  be  called  Milk  or  Cream  Gravy) 

One  tablespoonful  butter,- 1  of  flour,  2  cups  of  milk, 
salt  and  pepper.  Melt  butter  over  slow  fire,  mix  with 
flour,  add  milk  slowly,  stir  till  thick  and  set  on  back 
of  stove  for  four  or  five  minutes  to  steam,  with  cover 
on.     Season  just  before  serving. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

One  tablespoonful  flour,  1  of  butter.  Melt  in  Iron 
frying  pan.  Add  2  cups  of  hot  water,  stirring  till 
smooth  and  thick;  season.     One  cup  of  stock  or  all 


68  THE   HOME-]\IAKING   COOK   BOOK 

stock  may  be  used  instead  of  hot  water.  Bean  stock 
may  also  be  used.     Serve  with  vegetables  or  meat. 

Add  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of  chopped  sour  pickle 
or  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  or  catsup  of  any  kind,  and 
one  has  a  simple  gravy  for  fish. 

Two  hard  boiled  eggs  added  to  this  foundation, 
makes  a  fine  egg  sauce.  One  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder  for  curry  sauce. 

The  above  foundation  sweetened  and  flavored, 
makes  an  excellent  sweet  sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Simmer  2  cups  of  tomatoes  with  browned  onion,  a 
teaspoonful  or  two  of  herbs  if  liked,  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  to  it  either  a  little  of  the  drawn  butter  or  white 
sauce.  Two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  catsup  in  which 
is  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda  added  to  white  sauce  with 
browned  onion,  or  added  without  soda  to  drawn  but- 
ter, makes  a  good  tomato  sauce. 

MINT   SAUCE 

Two  tablespoonfuls  green  mint  (spear  mint)  chop- 
ped. Add  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar  and 
y^  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix,  let  stand  one  to  two  hours. 
Strain  into  a  bottle  and  cork,  or  into  a  vinegar  cruet 
with  glass  stopper.  Some  do  not  chop,  but  simply 
put  the  mint  in  a  bottle  with  the  sugar  and  vinegar. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE    (This  is  nice  for  fish) 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  1  saltspoonful  salt,  ^  saltspoonful  of 
cayenne  pepper,  5^  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Rub  butter  to  a  cream,  add  yolk,  one  at  a  time  and 
beat  well.     Add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.     About 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  69 

five  minutes  before  serving,  add  boiling  water.  Place 
bowl  in  double  boiler.  Stir  rapidly  until  like  boiled 
custard.     Pour  around  meat  or  fish. 

DRY  STUFFING 

Anything  put  inside  is  called  stuffing;  outside  is 
called  dressing.  Dry  dressing  is  more  digestible  than 
wet  dressing. 

Break  homemade  bread  up  into  tiny  pieces  in  the 
chopping  bowl.  Shake  over  it  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley, a  little  sage  and  onion  if  desired,  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  melted,  4  tablespoonfuls  cream,  1  or  2  beaten 
eggs,  season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well  together 
and  stuff  fowl.  For  turkey  use  eight  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter  or  four  of  the  big  cooking -spoon. 

WET  DRESSING  OR  STUFFING 

Soak  bread  in  milk  or  water,  squeeze  lightly,  add  2 
or  3  baked  potatoes  mashed,  1  cup  currants,  chopped 
onion,  sage,  pepper,  salt  and  melted  butter;  a  little 
cream  improves  it. 

DUMPLINGS 

If  one  has  plenty  of  eggs  it  is  easy  to  make  nice 
dumplings,  but  if  not  a  very  good  recipe  is  ^  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of 
milk,  1  egg  and  1  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder.  Mix  well.  A  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  a  little  more  milk  if  one  has  to  do  without 
an  egg.  Dredge  dessert  spoon  with  flour  and  drop 
around  the  top  of  stew  or  in  boiling  salted  vv'^ater. 
Cozy  and  simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  cover 
is  removed  before  done,  they  will  fall.  They  must 
not  be  made  until  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  as 


60  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

standing  makes  them  soggy.  They  are  good  made 
on  top  of  peeled  boiled  potatoes  about  fifteen  minutes 
before  they  are  done  and  "cozied."  These  are  of  the 
consistency  of  good  stiff  cake  batter  or  stififer.  A  little 
more  flour  may  be  added  and  sort  of  separated  in 
little  balls,  then  steam  in  steamer  one-half  to  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour.  Put  a  piece  of  mellow  apple  in 
center  of  each  one  and  serve  with  nutmeg  sauce  for 
dessert.  Some  are  very  successful  by  adding  beaten 
egg  and  flour  to  mashed  potato  and  drop  in  goodly 
salted  water.  Mix  so  they  hold  well  together  and 
drop  with  dessert  spoon. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING     (See  Chapter  on  Bread) 
NOODLES 

Wet  flour,  slightly  salted,  with  egg  until  of  the 
consistency  of  pie  crust — then  roll  rather  thin.  Let 
stand  either  on  bread  board  or  clean  floured  newspaper 
in  warm  room  for  an  hour  or  so.  Roll  like  rolled  jelly 
cake  and  slice.  Shake  out  a  little  and  use  for  soups, 
stews,  etc. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  61 


VEGETABLES 


Many  people  have  the  "drug  habit"  as  the  enormous 
sale  of  patent  medicines  and  drug  preparations  well 
proves.  It  is  better  to  take  medicines  in  vegetable 
foods  than  to  be  swallowing  drugs,  many  of  them 
poisonous. 

List  of  the  most  common  vegetable  medicines 

f  Turnips,  f  French  Beans, 

I  Onions,  I  Lentils, 


Cabbage,  _  Watercress, 

j        cress  (  Phosphate,  etc.  j     cious  of 


Sulphur  -^  Cauliflower,  Iron     -{  Spinach 

I  Water-  j  Oil,  Iron,  j     (most  pre- 


l^  Horseradish,  (^    vegetables). 

{Potato  (especially  near  the 
skin  and  in  the  skin), 
Spinach.  _ 

Most  of  the  vegetables  contain  nearly  all  these  med- 
icines, but  a  greater  percentage  of  each  one  is  found 
in  each  vegetable  thus  tabulated.  If  one's  system 
lacks  a  certain  medicine  they  can  select  from  the 
above.  This  is  only  a  small  outline  of  the  most  com- 
mon. All  kinds  of  foods  are  composed  of  water, 
proteids,  fat,  starch,  cellulose  and  ash.  Each  and 
all  of  these  have  their  uses,  even  cellulose,  though 
of  no  food  value  gives  the  bowels  exercise  or  they 
would  become  weakened  so  they  couldn't  digest. 

Spinach  has  iron  and  narcotic  properties.  If  an  in- 
valid can  have  vegetables  at  all  he  can  have  spinach. 

Cabbage,  cauliflower  and  spinach  are  beneficial  to 
anemic  people. 


63  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 

Tomatoes  stimulate  the  healthy  action  of  the  liver. 

Asparagus  benefits  the  kidneys. 

Celery  is  good  for  rheumatism,  neuralgia  and  quiets 
the  nerves. 

Beets  and  turnips  purify  the  blood  and  improve  the 
appetite,  ^ 

Lettuce  is  excellent  for  tired  nerves.  Lettuce  should 
be  planted  in  rich  ground,  in  a  partly  shaded  place 
as  too  much  sun  makes  it  bitter  and  tough.  Pick 
early  in  the  morning.  Simply  break  ofif  as  roots  come 
up  again,  for  market,  pick  roots  and  all. 

Parsley,  mustard,  cowslip,  dandelion,  dock  and  beet 
tops  clear  the  blood,  regulate  the  system  and  remove 
that  tired  feeling  so  peculiar  to  spring. 

Winter  vegetables  are  potatoes,  beets,  carrots, 
squash,  celery,  cabbage,  turnips,  beans,  dried  peas  and 
onions.    Some  leave  parsnips  in  the  ground  till  spring. 

Cellar  for  vegetables  must  be  cold,  dry  and  sanitary. 
A  root  cellar  would  be  better  built  away  from  the 
house  as  it  causes  bad  odor  through  the  house. 

PRINCIPLES  FOR  PREPARING  VEGETABLES 

All  vegetables  except  dry  vegetables,  should  be 
cooked  in  plenty  of  hot,  salted  water,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  about  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water. 

Soft  water  is  best  or  sterile  water  is  better  still,  but 
not  necessary. 

All  carbohydrates  should  be  cooked  by  long  cooking. 

Vegetables  should  be  simmered  not  boiled.  Hard 
boiling  destroys   their  nutrition. 

Try  to  keep  the  flavor  in  vegetables  by  keeping 
them  covered  except  onions  and  cabbage,  the  steam 
of  which  goes  back  into  the  water  again  and  makes 
odor  bad. 


THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  63 

Carrots  should  be  cooked  one  to  one  and  a  half 
hours.  Winter  carrots  take  longer  than  those  just 
pulled  and  should  be  cut  smaller. 

The  fresher  all  vegetables  are,  the  more  wholesome. 

To  correct  the  toughness  of  some  vegetables  in 
cooking,  add  a  little  baking  soda  or  parboil  in  soda 
water,  then  change  for  fresh  water  which  is  boiling. 

Beans  and  peas  are  very  easily  digested  in  the  green 
state,  while  in  the  dried,  are  more  difficult,  the  proteid 
being  of  the  caseine  group,  not  like  the  gluten. 

To  clear  vegetables  of  insects  or  germiS,  especially 
lettuce  or  celery  soak  for  a  little  while  in  strong  salt 
water,  or  wash  in  salt  water  and  then  soak  in  very 
cold  water  from  one-half  hour  to  two  hours  if  de- 
sired. 

Tomatoes  contain  calomel. 

Too  much  starch  at  one  meal  should  be  avoided,  as 
potatoes,  rice,  etc. 

Nothing  adds  more  to  the  delicate  flavor  and  di- 
gestibility of  almost  any  vegetable  than  parboiling 
and  throwing  away  the  first  water.  Potato  soup  is 
much  improved  by  this  method  and  it  is  indispensible 
in  preparing  onions.     Even  potatoes  are  improved. 

Corn  for  invalids  should  be  put  through  a  sieve,  as 
it  contains  a  great  deal  of  cellulose  which  they  cannot 
digest.  For  the  same  reason  they  -should  have  but 
little  parsley. 

A  scalloped  dish  is  an  ingredient  prepared  with  a 
white  sauce,  (milk  or  cream  gravy),  and  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  then  browned  in  the  oven. 

Grated  cheese  is  often  a  nice  flavor,  for  scalloped 
dishes,  especially  for  egg  plant  and  potatoes. 

Foundation  of  souffle  is  white  sauce.  Should  be 
served  as  soon  as  baked  because  it  is  light  and  will 
fall  if  it  stands. 

The  salts  of  potash  about  the  skin  of  potato  is  good 


64  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

to  build  up  hair,  teeth  and  nails,  also  keep  the  bowels 
regular. 

The  tapeworm  germs  are  found  on  lettuce,  water- 
cress and  celery,  hence  these  should  be  carefully 
washed  in  salt  water,  then  put  in  cold  water.  Sterile 
water  is  best  for  all  purposes,  but  requires  far  more 
time  and  labor,  hence  more  expensive. 

Vegetables  can  be  made  crisp  by  putting  them  in 
cold  water. 

Lettuce  is  good  for  invalids  if  permitted  to  have 
vegetables. 

Always  avoid  coagulating  albumen  in  cooking  all 
foods. 

Cook  macaroni  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes, 
then  drain  and  wash  in  cold  water  before  following" 
any  recipe  for  its  preparation.  This  rule  also  improves 
spaghetti. 

New  potatoes  are  best  baked;  old  potatoes  boiled; 
old  potatoes  should  be  peeled  and  stand  over  night  in 
cold  water.  Water  on  them  ought  to  be  changed  be- 
fore retiring  and  early  in  the  morning.  It  is  well  to 
soak  them  before  peeling. 

Green  corn  and  peas  should  not  be  prepared  till 
ready  to  cook. 

Old  potatoes  and  egg  plant  should  be  put  on  in 
salted  water,  cold. 

Do  not  allow  vegetables  to  remain  in  the  water 
after  they  are  -cooked. 

A  little  baking  soda  added  to  the  water  in  which 
greens  are  cooked,  preserves  the  color.  The  French 
usually  use  a  pinch  of  carbonate  of  ammonia.  They 
are  better  without  either  except  where  soda  is  needed 
to  relieve  toughness. 

A  very  small  piece  of  red  pepper  dropped  into 
meat  or  vegetables,  when  first  beginning  to  cook,  will 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK  65 

help  in  killing  the  unpleasant  odor,  especially  cabbage, 
onions,  mutton  and  chicken. 

Vegetables  when  cooked  with  salt  meat,  ought  not 
to  be  put  in  till  the  meat  is  removed,  or  better  still, 
some  of  the  juice  can  be  removed  to  a  separate  kettle 
for  the  vegetables. 

Some  varieties  of  potatoes  that  are  not  good  in  the 
fall,  are  excellent  in  the  spring,  and  vice  versa. 

Beans  and  peas  contain  a  small  percentage  of  fats, 
therefore  pork,  butter  or  some  fat  is  necessary  to 
cook  with  them;  very  rich  in  proteids  and  starch. 

BOILED  POTATOES  WITH  JACKETS 

Soak  potatoes  for  an  hour  or  more  in  cold  water 
after  choosing  those  of  equal  size.  It  is  well  to  peel 
a  little  of  the  skin  off  each  end  to  allow  the  salt 
to  penetrate  while  boiling.  Use  about  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water.  Water  may  be  either 
cold  or  boiling,  it  depends  on  age  of  potatoes.  Old 
potatoes  are  better  cooked  in  cold  water  but.  water 
must  cover  the  potatoes.  Use  rather  a  heavy  kettle — 
iron  is  best  as  it  keeps  temperature  more  even  than 
light  weight  kettles. 

Do  not  boil  too  hard  as  the  outside  of  potato  will 
crumble,  nor  too  slow  as  then  the  potatoes  will  be 
watery.  Boil  till  nearly  done,  then  drain  and  cover 
lightly;  place  where  they  will  steam  till  thoroughly 
done,  but  not  burn,  then  remove  cover,  shake  a  lit- 
tle and  let  steam  evaporate,  making  the  potatoes  dry 
and  mealy.  Never  let  them  stand  in  water  after  they 
are  done.    Potatoes  should  be  served  immediately. 

POTATOES  BOILED  (Peeled) 

It  is  well  to  soak  the  potatoes  new  or  old  in  cold 
water  before  peeling.  Old  potatoes  can  be  soaked 
twenty-four  hours  and  better  peeled  the  night  before 

5 


66  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

using,  changing  water  two  or  three  times  on  them. 
An  hour  or  two  is  sufficient  to  soak  new  potatoes. 
Peel  very  thin  as  the  best  part  of  potatoes  is  near  the 
skin.  Boil  as  in  above  recipe,  only  while  steaming 
they  may  be  shook  once  or  twice,  with  cover  off  to 
dry  them  out.  Medium  sized  potatoes  should  take 
about  thirty-five  minutes  to  cook  and  with  jackets  on, 
a  little  longer.  The  fifteen  and  twenty  minutes  boil- 
ing that  some  boast  of  is  a  great  waste.  Object  of 
steaming  is  to  cook  the  starch  more  thoroughly  and 
aid  digestion.  They  are  much  improved  by  boiling 
in  two  waters  having  the  second  boiling  when  put  on. 
The  first  boiling  requires  only  ten  minutes.  Green 
corn  may  be  put  in  the  steamer  and  steamed  over 
them  in  the  same  kettle,  both  requiring  the  same  time 
to  cook. 

MASHED  POTATOES  NO.  1    (Very  Fine) 

Boil,  steam  and  dry  out  potatoes  in  their  jackets  as 
in  first  recipe,  then  peel  very  quickly  and  put  in  a  hot 
kettle  or  earthen  dish  heated.  Add  milk  and  let  come 
to  a  boil,  also  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Mash 
with  an  old-fashioned  wooden  potato  masher  and  beat 
a  little  with  a  large  spoon.  When  ready  to  serve,  place 
them  lightly  in  the  dish.  Mashed  potatoes  should  never 
be  packed,  but  made  light  as  possible, 

MASHED  POTATOES  NO.  2 

Follow  directions  for  Boiled  Potatoes,  peeled,  then 
mash  and  season  as  in  the  above  recipe. 

POTATO  PATTIES 

Take  mashed  potatoes  that  are  left  over  and  pack 
into  a  loaf  tin,  or  better,  a  loaf  granite  pan  and  let 
stand  over  night,  or  from  noon  till  night;  turn  out  on 


THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  67 

board,  slice  and  fry  in  hot  frying  pan  with  as  little 
grease  as  will  prevent  sticking,  until  they  are  a  nice 
brown;  turn  carefully  with  pancake  turner  or  broad 
bladed  knife  or  the  brown  crust  will  break  away. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter.  These  can  also  be  molded  into 
balls  while  still  warm  and  set  away  for  next  meal. 

CREAMED  POTATOES    (Raw) 

Soak  potatoes  in  cold  water;  peel  and  cut  in  dice 
shape  or  any  neat  form ;  let  stand  in  cold  water  for  a 
while  before  cooking,  drain  and  put  in  boiling  salted 
water  if  potatoes  are  new  or  cold  salted  water  if  po- 
tatoes are  old.  Boil  till  almost  tender,  drain  well  and 
cover  with  scalded  milk,  then  add  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  together  in  the  proportion  of  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  or  more  of  each  to  a  cup  of  milk.  If  pre- 
pared in  a.  heavy  iron  spider,  the  butter  and  flour  may 
be  cooked  together,  and  add  the  milk  cold;  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  potatoes  and  lower  the  tem- 
perature after  mixing  lightly  and  well,  then  cover 
tightly  and  let  steam  from  five  to  fifteen  minutes.  If 
a  heavy  spider  or  kettle  is  not  at  hand,  use  a  double 
boiler  for  the  creaming  which  will  take  nearly  a  half 
hour. 

CREAMED  POTATOES    (Cooked) 

A  heavy  iron  spider  is  best  for  these.  They  may  be 
prepared  with  or  without  flour.  If  prepared  with  flour, 
use  about  the  same  proportion  as  in  preceding  recipe. 
Cooking  flour  and  butter  a  little  first,  then  adding 
milk,  and  whether  with  flour  or  without,  let  the  milk 
come  to  a  boil  before  adding  potatoes  which  have 
previously  been  peeled  and  cut.  Stir  lightly  and  well 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  cover  and  let  steam  a  few 
minutes  longer.  Flavor  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley 
chopped  or  a  few  cooked  onions  which  have  been  left 


68  THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK 

over.  They  are  nice  without  any  flavoring  except 
salt.  Cold  baked  potatoes  are  delicious  prepared  this 
way.  Cold  potatoes  in  their  jackets  or  even  baked 
potatoes,  are  better  if  not  peeled  till  it  is  time  to  pre- 
pare them. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES 

One  cup  of  white  sauce,  1  tablespoonful  melted  but- 
ter, 1/2  cup  of  break  crumbs,  5  potatoes,  medium  size, 
1  tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese  if  desired. 

Place  potatoes  cut  fine  in  layers,  alternating  first, 
bread  crumbs,  then  potatoes,  then  sauce,  and  so  on 
till  dish  is  full.  Put  melted  butter  over  top  and  bake 
till  brown  in  oven.  Bread  crumbs  or  a  little  grated 
cheese  on  top  is  an  improvement.  A  deep  granite 
pan  is  preferable.  This  recipe  is  about  enough  for 
three  people.  These  are  very  nice  if  potatoes  are  first 
parboiled  in  jackets ;  flavor  as  desired.  Cauliflower  is 
very  good  escalloped  with  a  little  cheese  in  the  same 
way. 

BAKED  POTATOES 

The  best  way  to  prepare  potatoes  is  to  bake  them, 
especially  for  the  sick.  Soak  potatoes  for  an  hour  or 
two  in  cold  water;  if  potatoes  are  old  soak  over  night. 
Prick  (almost  through)  with  a  fork,  before  putting  in 
the  oven  or  when  about  half  done ;  this  makes  them 
mealy.  When  shriveled,  are  overdone.  Oven  must 
be  hot.  One-half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  for 
medium  sized  potatoes. 

TWICE  BAKED  POTATOES 

These  are  very  nice  for  the  sick.  Bake  as  in  the 
above  recipe.  When  baked,  take  off  top  or  cut  in 
two,  scrape  out,  mash  with  a  little  butter,  milk 
(cream)  and  salt,  put  back  in  the  shell  and  brown  in 
the  oven.     Delicious. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  69 

FRIED  POTATOES 

It  takes  about  twenty-five  minutes,  all  told,  to  fry 
potatoes  properly.  The  most  important  point  is  to 
have  the  grease  hot  before  putting  in  potatoes,  or 
they  will  absorb  the  grease  and  be  very  indigestible. 
Lard,  butter,  equal  parts  of  lard  (hardest  to  digest), 
and  butter  or  drippings  may  be  used  as  desired.  Fry 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  turning  about  every  three 
minutes.  ChCip  with  a  baking  powder  can.  Lower 
temperature  and  flavor,  then  cover  lightly  and  steam 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  These  may  be  first  .chopped 
fine,  grease  heated  well  and  baked  in  the  oven  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes.  An  iron  spider  or  dripping  pan  of 
heavy  material  is  best. 

Lyonnaise  potatoes  are  the  same,  only  brown  an 
onion  before  putting  in  potatoes  and  leave  the  po- 
tatoes cut  coarser.  Brown  nicely  and  sprinkle  with 
parsley  or  shredded  lettuce. 

STEAMED  POTATOES 

These  with  steamed  veal  loaf,  are  excellent  for  Sun- 
day dinner.  They  can  be  put  in  the  steamer,  either 
peeled  or  in  their  jackets  around  the  B.  P.  cans 
(should  be  clean  on  outside),  well  covered  and 
"cozied"  before  going  to  church  and  dinner  will  be 
ready  when  you  return.  Leave  plenty  of  hot  water 
under  the  steamer  and  turn  the  gas  low,  but  not  as 
low  as  for  all  night  cooking.  The  cozies  will  do  the 
cooking.  The  juice  from  veal  loaf  can  be  added  to  a 
white  sauce  or  tomato  gravy. 

RAW  FRIED  POTATOES 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  slice  rather  thin,  with  a  po- 
tato slicer,   into  cold   water;  change  water  and  let 


70  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK 

Stand  two  hours.  If  wanted  for  breakfast,  change 
water  the  last  thing  at  night  and  the  first  thing  in  the 
morning  or  they  will  turn  dark.  Drain  through  a 
colander  and  let  drip  a  few  minutes.  Have  lard  very 
hot  and  a  little  more  than  for  cooked  fried  potatoes. 
Pour  in  potatoes  from  colander  and  stir  every  two  or 
three  minutes  for  about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  po- 
tatoes are  browned  considerable.  Flavor  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  cover  tightly  and  put  on  back  of 
range  to  steam  or  cook  very  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes 
more. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  quarter  the  potatoes  lengthwise.  If  large, 
cut  in  eighths.  After  rinsing  well  in  cold  water,  soak 
in  salt  water  for  one-half  hour,  then  drain  and  dry  on 
a  towel.  Fry  in  deep  fat  either  in  a  wire  basket  or 
float  them  in  the  grease  and  drain  in  a  wire  basket 
after,  or  on  a  piece  of  paper  without  print.  Fry  till 
good  and  brown,  turn  while  frying.  The  fat  must  be 
scalding  hot  when  potatoes  are  put  in.  Very  nice 
served  with  steak.  They  are  very  nice  fried  with  only 
two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  steak  drippings.  A 
shallow  iron  kettle  or  heavy  iron  spider  is  best.  Sara- 
toga chips  are  made  nearly  the  same  only  slice  thin 
and  drain  on  a  towel.  Fry  in  deeper  fat.  Should  be 
soaked  about  fifteen  minutes  in  salt  water,  or  sprinkle 
with  salt  after  frying. 

ANOTHER  KIND  OF  FRIED  POTATOES 

Take  potatoes  either  raw  or  cooked  and  sliced  one- 
quarter  inch  thick,  and  put  only  one  layer  in  the 
spider  at  a  time ;  fry  till  brown  and  then  turn  as  pan- 
cakes and  brown  on  other  side ;  season. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  71 

BROWNED  POTATOES    (Baked) 

Peel  and  soak  potatoes,  either  whole  or  halved,  in 
clear  cold  water,  then  put  for  about  a  half  hour  in  salt 
water.  Drain  and  put  around  roast  beef  or  other  kind 
of  meat  will  do,  about  one  and  a  half  hours  before 
meat  is  done.  If  one  has  not  a  double  roaster,  then 
baste  very  often — about  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
or  they  will  not  be  tender  and  brown.  They  may  be 
rolled  in  flour  or  flour  sprinkled  on  them  after  putting 
in  pan,  only  remember  to  turn  or  lift  out  carefully 
with  a  broad  bladed  knife,  or  the  nice  brown  coat  will 
come  off.  Another  method  is  to  parboil  them  in  their 
jackets,  peel  and  then  put  around  roast. 

POTATOES  WITH  RAW  CABBAGE 
(German  Style) 

Peel  and  boil  potatoes  in  salt  water.  Drain  and 
while  hot,  throw  over  them  sliced  cabbage,  raw.  Mash 
both  together  (the  cabbage  only  mixes  through),  sea- 
son and  put  in  serving  dish.  Pour  over  it  a  thin 
drawn  butter  or  milk  gravy  or  rather  half  thick. 

SOUR  POTATOES 

Boil  potatoes  in  jackets.  When  cold,  slice  or  dice 
one  medium  sized  onion  cut  fine,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Pour  over  them  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar.  Brown  two  or  three  slices  of  bacon,  cut 
up  fine  and  pour  over  all  the  hot  bacon  grease.  Mix 
lightly  and  warm  in  oven;  serve.  Nice  for  luncheon- 
or  for  dinner  served  with  steak. 

SWEET  POTATOES 

May  be  prepared  after  any  of  the  rules  of  white  po- 
tatoes. They  are  excellent  parboiled,  peeled  and 
browned  with  baked  ham.    Recipe  given  with  Baked 


73  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK   BOOK 

Ham,    Save  what  is  left  over  for  croquettes  and  sweet 
potato  pie. 

BAKED  BEANS  NO.  1 

Put  one  quart  or  four  cups  of  beans  over  in  cold 
water.  When  they  come  to  a  boil,  add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  soda  and  let  boil  five  minutes. 
Then  drain  through  colander,  pour  back  in  kettle  and 
cover  with  boiling  water;  boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain  and  put  boiling  water  on  again  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Drain  for  the  third  time.  Put  in  a  crock 
or  heavy  dish  and  pour  boiling  water  on  again,  cov- 
ering well.  Season  with  a  very  little  salt,  one-half 
pound  salt  pork  cut  in  slices  and  spread  over  the  top, 
turning  the  pieces  over  once  or  twice  while  baking,  or 
cut  the  whole  piece  through  to  the  rind ;  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  molasses  or  brown  sugar.  Bake  slowly 
from  three  to  twelve  hours,  covered,  adding  boiling 
water  occasionally,  if  they  get  too  dry.  Towards  the 
last  do  not  add  water  but  let  them  get  dry  nearly  to 
the  bot'tom,  removing  cover  the  last  hour.  If  there  is 
a  fire  in  range,  these  can  be  left  in  the  oven  over  night, 
and  also  second  day,  and  baked  twelve  hours  more. 
They  stay  whole,  very  few  break.  When  baked  for  a 
long  time  they  are  called  Boston  Baked.  Where  the 
family  is  small  half  of  these  and  part  of  the  liquor 
may  be  made  into  soup  for  the  previous  meal. 

BAKED  BEANS  NO.  2 

Soak  a  quart  of  beans  in  plenty  of  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning  wash  them  out  of  that  water  and 
cover  well  with  cold  water;  set  on  the  stove  and  when 
they  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  about  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda;  let  boil  moderately  about  five  minutes. 
Drain  through  a  colander  or  if  using  a  cover  with  a 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  73 

strainer  made  in  it,  simply  drain.  Then  cover  well 
with  boiling  water  and  put  in  one-half  pound  of  pork 
which  has  been  scraped  clean  and  sliced  through  to 
the  rind.  Let  boil  moderately  about  a  half  hour  or  a 
little  better.  Put  in  a  crock  or  one  of  those  dark 
stone  ware  dishes  are  very  nice.  Put  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  molasses  or  brown  sugar  or  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  each,  one  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard  and  a  little 
salt.  Let  them  bake  rather  slowly  two  or  three  hours, 
longer  does  not  hurt  them.  Have  plenty  of  water  on 
them  and  stir  the  brown  ones  down  from  the  top  two 
or  three  times.  When  done  they  should  be  dry  almost 
to  the  bottom  yet  moist  and  mealy.  The  beans  will 
not  all  be  whole.  While  mustard  gives  them  a  de- 
licious flavor,  people  suffering  from  weak  stomachs  or 
the  effects  of  too  much  indoor  work,  had  better  omit 
it.  Very  nourishing  and  a  cheap  dish.  Some  call 
these  Yankee  Baked. 

STEWED  BEANS     (String  or  Wax) 

In  the  early  summer  when  those  delicious  wax  or 
string  beans  are  very  high  priced,  you  can  make  be- 
lieve you  have  them  by  following  recipe  No,  1  for 
baked  beans  as  far  as  baking  them,  that  is  stew  them 
in  the  fourth  water  very  slowly,  two  or  three  hours. 
Before  putting  them  in  the  last  v/ater,  parboil  the 
string  beans  about  ten  minutes  in  water  with  a  little 
baking  soda,  having  beforehand  prepared  them  neatly 
by  stringing  and  cutting  in  about  one  inch  lengths. 
Drain  off  water  through  colander  or  strainer  cover 
and  add  to  the  other  beans,  when  put  in  the  last 
water  and  let  both  simmer  together.  The  string  beans 
flavor  the  others  a  great  deal  and  the  whole  makes  a 
fair  substitute  for  the  real  dish.  Flavor  with  drip- 
pings, lard  or  butter  as  one  can  afford,  about  one 
teaspoonful  or  more  of  salt  and  a  very  little  pepper. 


74  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

DRIED  PEAS 

Both  peas  and  beans  and  in  fact  all  vegetables  or 
rather  all  cooking  is  better  with  soft  water. 

Can  be  cooked  as  either  recipe  for  baked  beans. 
Either  peas  or  beans  are  nice  stewed  slowly  and 
browned  in  the  oven. 

Either  one  makes  nice  soup.  (See  chapter  on  soups.) 
Beans  stewed  and  strained,  make  good  soup  stock ;  the 
liquor  only;  do  not  mash  through  colander. 

TURNIPS,  CARROTS  AND  RUTABAGAS 

These  can  be  sliced  and  boiled  in  the  juice  of  salt 
meat,  either  with  the  meat  or  after  it  has  been  re- 
moved. They  may  be  boiled  and  mashed  as  mashed 
potatoes  and  the  left  overs  can  be  made  into  patties  or 
croquettes,  similar  to  potatoes.  Season  nicely.  They 
are  nice  cut  into  dice  or  slices  boiled  in  salted  water, 
drained  and  creamed  or  other  gravies  can  be  used, 
poured  over  them.  If  boiled  in  two  waters  the  last 
need  not  all  be  drained  off,  if  milk  and  stock  are  scarce 
for  making  gravy.  When  two  or  more  waters  are 
used,  it  is  always  well  to  have  the  teakettle  of  hot 
water  ready  for  the  changing.  Any  of  these  are  nice 
if  the  last  boiling  is  done  with  half  milk  and  hot  water 
in  the  double  boiler,  then  just  thicken  and  season. 
Flour  rubbed  into  butter  is  the  easiest  way  of  thicken- 
ing. Carrots  are  especially  nice  this  way ;  also  onions 
and  cabbage. 

BEETS 

Excellent  for  salad.  (See  chapter  on  salads.)  They 
are  very  good  plain  boiled  and  eaten  with  a  little  vine- 
gar, pepper  and  salt.  After  standing  a  day  or  so  in 
vinegar,  they  make  nice  pickles,  sliced  or  cut  in  dice. 
The  young  beets  in  early  summer  time  make  excellent 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  75 

greens  cooked  whole  like  spinach  or  with  meat.  Be- 
fore boiling  they  should  be  washed  carefully  so  as  not 
to  break  the  skin  or  the  fine  roots  as  this  will  bleed 
and  spoil  them.  Winter  beets  should  be  soaked  over 
night.  Put  all  beets  on  in  boiling  water  and  let  boil 
slowly  from  one  and  a  half  hours  to  four  hours.  Test 
with  a  toothpick.    Use  "cozies"  over  and  around  them. 

MIXED  VEGETABLES     (Succotash) 

This  is  an  excellent  way  when  one  has  not  enough 
of  one  kind  for  a  meal.  A  variety  of  dishes  can  be 
made  by  mixing  two  vegetables.  More  than  two 
kinds  are  inclined  to  be  sloppy  with  a  few  exceptions 
of  good  combinations.  Green  corn  and  dried  beans 
(succotash).  Scald  the  corn  enough  to  set  the  milk 
before  cutting  from  the  cob  or  use  canned  corn.  Don't 
put  the  corn  in  till  almost  ready  to  serve.  Excellent 
method  is  to  remove  from  fire  and  use  cozy,  letting  it 
steam  fifteen  minutes. 

Green  corn  and  tomatoes.  One  or  two  onions  cut 
up  and  added  to  cabbage.  Potatoes  and  turnips 
mashed  together.  A  few  carrots  with  potatoes,  about 
one  part  to  three.  Carrots  with  green  peas  in  the  same 
proportion.  Any  of  these  combinations  can  be  flavored 
with  onion.  All  are  delicious  if  the  proper  method  for 
cooking  is  followed, 

STRING  AND  WAX  BEANS 

Parboil  ten  minutes  with  a  pinch  of  soda,  strain  and 
put  boiling  water  over  them,  well  covered.  Let  sim- 
mer two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  or  more.  Season 
and  serve.  Some  add  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  2  or  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  thicken.  When  they 
get   old   they  can   be   shelled  and   cooked  like   lima 


76  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

beans,  using  the  same  method  as  above,  only  they 
don't  require  simmering  quite  so  long.  Sort  of  mock 
Lima  Beans. 

GREEN  PEAS 

If  small,  they  will  simmer  nicely  in  about  a  half 
hour.  When  they  get  old  and  tough,  an  excellent 
method  is  to  simmer  till  tender,  drain  and  mash 
through  a  colander  or  sieve.  Add  a  little  warm  milk 
or  cream,  and  fix  the  same  as  mashed  potatoes.  Some 
boil  them  in  half  milk  and  water.  The  double  boiler 
is  best  for  this  method.  This  is  called  a  puree.  Beans 
can  be  prepared  the  same. 

ONIONS 

The  methods  of  preparing  onions  are  almost  innum- 
erable, but  no  matter  what  recipe  one  may  follow  or 
even  using  for  flavoring  or  serving  on  the  table  cold,  it 
is  always  wise  to  soak  them  for  two  hours  iu  cold 
water,  then  change  and  put  over  the  fire  in  another 
cold  water  and  let  get  quite  warm  but  not  boil.  Drain 
and  follow  any  recipe.  I  have  never  found  this  meth- 
od to  disagree  with  a  patient  and  even  those  whose 
stomachs  are  sensitive  to  onions,  can  use  them  with- 
out distress.  For  a  patient,  if  doctor  permits  vege- 
tables, they  can  have  them  sliced  and  creamed,  es- 
calloped  or  baked,  and  to  flavor  other  dishes.  Very 
good  for  most  kidney  troubles.  Peel  under  water  if 
eyes  are  tender. 

CREAMED  ONIONS 

Either  slice  or  leave  whole,  and  after  soaking  in  cold 
water,  put  on  and  simmer  in  hot  salted  water  from 
one-half  hour  to  an  hour,  the  whole  requiring  longer 
than  the  sliced.  Drain  and  pour  over  them  a  hot  milk 
gravy,  or  after  parboiling  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  77 

drain  and  put  over  again  in  half  hot  milk  and  water, 
season  and  thicken  when  done.  Again  the  double 
boiler  is  fine  for  this  last  method.  The  last  need  not 
be  thickened  but  just  seasoned  and  served  as  boiled 
onions.    The  milk  may  be  omitted. 

BAKED  ONIONS 

After  following  first  two  principles  given  under 
"Onions,"  using  the  whole  onions,  boil  a  half  hour  or 
more  till  tender;  drain,  lay  side  by  side  in  a  pudding 
dish,  season  and  cover  with  a  white  sauce.  Sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  cover  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Remove  cover  and  brown.  Serve  in 
dish  in  which  they  are  baked. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Nearly  the  same  as  above  only  before  putting  in  the 
oven,  remove  the  hearts  carefully  and  stuff  with  a  nice 
stuffing  of  chopped  meat  and  bread  crumbs  or  some 
left  overs. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS 

These  can  be  made  in  different  ways.  Remember 
the  first  principle  (soaking).  Boil  slowly  for  half  an 
hour  or  better  in  water  slightly  salted.  Drain  and 
cut  up  fine.  Grease  a  pudding  dish — put  layer  of 
onions,  then  bread  crumbs,  season  with  bits  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  (slight)  and  so  on  till  full,  then  pour 
in  hot  milk.  Cover  and  bake  twenty-five  to  thirty 
minutes.  Uncover,  brown  and  serve  in  same  dish. 
The  onions  can  be  cut  fine  before  boiling. 

Another  method  is  to  use  a  layer  of  the  boiled 
onions,  then  bread  crumbs  and  a  thin  white  sauce; 
season  and  repeat  till  dish  is  full,  and  bake.  Left 
over  onions  can  be  used  up  this  way. 


78  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

GREEN  CORN    (On  Ear) 

Put  over  in  boiling  salted  water  and  let  boil  only  five 
minutes  after  they  start  to  boil,  or  put  over  in  boiling 
water,  cover  well  with  cozies  and  remove  from  fire; 
let  stand  fifteen  minutes.    Must  have  plenty  of  water. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN 

Add  about  2  cups  of  milk  to  a  can  of  corn  which 
should  be  removed  from  can  as  soon  as  opened.  Warm 
slightly.  Take  a  layer  of  this,  then  a  layer  of  nice 
crisp  fresh  cracker  crumbs;  season  and  repeat  till 
about  three  layers  in  all.  Bake  till  a  nice  brown.  It 
rises  considerable.  Serve  in  same  dish  at  once.  Use 
a  little  sugar  if  the  corn  does  not  seem  sweet  enough. 
Delicious  for  an  invalid,  but  rub  the  corn  through  a 
sieve  so  as  to  remove  the  cellulose.  A  small  individ- 
ual dish  can  be  made  separately  or  instead  of  layers, 
add  a  little  beaten  egg  unless  eggs  are  forbidden  by 
physicians  as  in  case  of  inflammatory  rheumatism. 

PARSNIPS 

These  can  be  creamed  like  creamed  onions.  They 
may  be  boiled  with  salted  meat,  browning  in  the 
spider  or  in  a  dripping  pan  in  the  oven,  adds  to  their 
flavor  after  cooking  with  meat.  Some  like  to  sprinkle 
cinnamon  over  them. 

Parboil  in  salt  water  and  fry  is  another  method. 

SQUASH 

Baked,  mashed  and  flavored  with  a  little  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper.  Easier  broken  with  the  ax  than  to  try 
to  cut  with  a  knife. 

Steamed  and  prepared  the  same.  Leave  outside 
shell  on  for  both  methods.    Bake  and  serve  nice  and 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  79 

brown  on  a  platter  from  the  oven.    A  bowl  of  white 
sauce  or  other  gravy,  will  save  the  butter. 

CELERY 

Outside  stalks  are  good  for  soup.  It  may  be  cut  in 
small  pieces,  boiled  till  tender  in  salted  water;  drained 
and  served  with  a  tomato  sauce  poured  over  it,  or 
other  sauces.     (See  chapter  on  gravies.) 

ASPARAGUS  ON  TOAST 

Simmer  asparagus  tips  in  salted  water  till  tender. 
Drain  and  lay  on  slices  of  toast  and  pour  over  all  a 
white  sauce,  or  put  asparagus  into  the  white  sauce  and 
pour  all  over  the  toast. 

Another  way  is  just  put  on  a  little  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  with  3  or  4  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  and  ar- 
range neatly  on  the  toast. 

It  is  excellent  served  as  a  vegetable  with  white  or 
drawn  butter  sauce.  It  should  be  parboiled  and  the 
first  water  thrown  away.  The  tips  may  be  laid  in  the 
colander  and  steamed  over  the  other  part  as  they  are 
very  tender  and  don't  need  so  much  cooking.  Then 
all  can  be  put  together  when  preparing  after  cooking.- 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

After  preparing  macaroni  by  boiling  twenty  minutes 
in  salted  water  and  rinsed  with  cold  water,  put  a 
layer  in  a  baking  dish  or  deep  granite  pan  and  sprinkle 
well  with  grated  cheese  or  cheese  shaved  in  small 
pieces.  Dot  with  bits  of  butter  or  oleomargarine  (a 
good  grade)  and  flavor  with  a  very  little  pepper  and 
salt.  Continue  alternate  layers  until  dish  is  full  then 
pour  in,  carefully,  so  as  not  to  disturb  butter  on  top, 
milk  which  has  been  warmed  in  a  small  double  boiler 


80  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

— not  enough  to  entirely  cover  the  macaroni  but  about 
two-thirds — cover  and  bake  one-half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  according  to  size  of  dish  and  amount  used; 
uncover  toward  the  last  and  brown.  Cracker  crumbs 
may  be  sprinkled  on  top.  Some  add  a  beaten  egg  to 
the  milk;  then  use  less  butter.  The  French  use  part  of 
this  first  water  to  be  thrown  away  in  making  their 
soups. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATOES     ("Spaghetti) 

This  is  prepared  exactly  as  above  except  that  a  little 
red  pepper  or  paprika  is  used  for  flavoring,  and  warm 
the  tomatoes.  About  a  half  quart  can,  or  little  more,  of 
tomatoes  to  a  quart  baking  dish.  When  not  to  be 
used  for  a  lenten  dish  it  is  excellent  flavored  with 
about  two  or  three  slices  of  bacon  cut  in  little  squares, 
browned  in  frying  pan  and  grease  and  all  poured  into 
tomatoes ;  bacon  must  not  be  scorched,  fry  slowly.  It 
is  also  nice  flavored  with  browned  onion.  Spaghetti 
may  be  used  instead  of  macaroni.  Bake  as  above.  A 
little  grated  cheese  and  fine  bread  crumbs  may  be  ad- 
ded. Tomatoes  are  nice  simply  stewed,  with  sugar, 
salt,  piece  of  butter  and  bread  or  cracker  crumbs. 

CREAMED  MACARONI 

Prepare  macaroni  as  above,  that  is  boiling  twenty 
minutes  and  rinsing  with  cold  water,  then  put  with  a 
goodly  supply  of  thin  white  sauce  into  double  boiler 
and  steam  about  one-half  hour  or  more. 

HOMINY 

May  be  used  as  a  vegetable,  dessert  or  breakfast 
food.  Wash  as  rice  but  cook  a  long  time  in  double 
boiler  like  oatmeal.  A  very  nice  garnish  for  stewed  or 
fried  chicken. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  81 

SPANISH  RICE 

Boll  rice  or,  rather,  steam  it  until  it  is  large  flakes 
and  dry  out  a  little  by  setting  in  the  oven.  *Brown  an 
onion  or  more  in  frying-pan  in  butter  or  oleomargarine 
(^  nice  suet  or  bacon  dripping  could  be  used).  Add 
to  it  the  boiled  rice  and  about  the  same  quantity  or 
little  less  of  tomatoes.  Flavor  with  red  pepper  or  pa- 
prika, salt  and  more  butter  if  not  rich  enough.  Stir 
carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  rice  grains.  Like 
spaghetti,  the  real  thing  should  be  rather  hot  with  red 
pepper,  but  both  are  a  whole  lot  better  for  the  intes- 
tines if  only  enough  to  flavor  is  used. 


82  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 


EGGS 


Eggs,  like  milk,  begin  to  lose  their  food  value  after 
twenty-four  hours.  Never  give  an  invalid  an  egg 
more  than  three  days  old.  Storing  eggs  is  simply  a 
method  of  closing  pores  of  shell  and  is  not  always  safe. 
Eggs  are  capable  of  sustaining  and  supporting  life,  and 
are,  therefore,  about  one  of  the  most  perfect  foods 
which  we  have. 

White  and  yolk  together  contain  about  75  per  cent 
water,  12JE^  proteids  and  12  per  cent  fat.  Separately, 
the  white  contains  more  proteid  and  the  yolk  more 
fat. 

Very  few  people  know  how  to  cook  an  egg  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  keep  it  digestible  and  get  from  it  its 
full  natural  nutriment.  The  old-fashioned  two  and 
three  minute  method  spoils  the  nourishment  of  the 
egg.  They  are  usually  so  high  in  price  that  it  pays  to 
get  all  the  food  value  out  of  them. 

Weighed  pound  for  pound,  eggs  are  more  expensive 
than  meat.  It  takes  ten  average  eggs  to  weigh  a 
pound,  but  eggs  are  more  easily  digested  than  meat, 
when  slightly  cooked  or  raw,  and  it  is  possible  to  make 
a  very  great  many  delicious  dishes  with  them.  Use 
low  temperature  and  longer  time  for  all  egg  dishes. 

POACHED  EGGS 

Take  a  pan  or  frying  pan  and  nearly  fill  with  boil- 
ing water.  Then  before  breaking  a  single  egg,  toast  a 
number  of  squares  of  bread,  butter  them  and  put  them 
on  a  warm  platter.  Keep  them  warm  just  inside  the 
oven  door  or  in  warming  oven  until  eggs  are  ready. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  83 

When  toast  is  ready,  put  about  1  teaspoonful  of  salt 
into  the  water.  This  keeps  the  white  of  the  egg  from 
floating  away  from  the  yellow.  It  helps  the  egg  to 
stay  together,  firm  and  even.  Now  then,  break  the  egg 
carefully,  slide  it  from  its  shell  very  gently  into  the 
boiling  water,  which  has  been  moved  to  back  of  range 
or  gas  turned  out.  Cover  and  let  stand  five  minutes  or 
better. 

Be  sure  that  the  yellow  is  covered  with  the  white 
and  that  the  water  covers  the  entire  egg.  When  the 
white  is  set,  run  an  egg  slide  around  and  under  the 
egg,  to  make  sure  that  it  does  not  stick  to  the  bottom 
of  the  pan.  Lift  it  up  carefully  on  the  egg  slide  (an 
old-fashioned  milk  skimmer),  and  cut  off  any  ragged 
edges  of  white  that  may  be  there  and  place  it  neatly 
on  the  very  center  of  the  toast,  and  a  wee  bit  of  melted 
butter,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGGS 
(Some  call  these  steamed  eggs  and  some  coddled  eggs) 

Nearly  all  the  soft  boiled  eggs  on  the  majority  of 
tables,  are  hard  near  the  surface  and  too  soft  next  to 
the  yolk.  Pour  over  1  egg,  1  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  stand  about  eight  minutes  or  little  longer  on 
the  table.  It  is  then  ready  to  serve.  The  white  will 
be  soft  and  creamy.  This  is  rather  expensive  as  it 
takes  so  much -gas  to  boil  so  much  water,  but  the  sys- 
tem gets  so  many  times  the  nourishment  than  the 
other  way,  that  the  loss  is  greatly  repaid. 

Three  quarts  of  boiling  water  will  cook  seven  eggs 
in  eight  to  ten  minutes.  About  three  and  a  half  quarts 
will  cook  ten  eggs  in  same  time.  The  use  of  a  heated, 
earthen  dish  will  take  less  water. 

Another  very  good  method  is  to  put  over  in  cold 
water,  bring  to  a  boil,  cover  and  let  stand  half  a  minute 


84  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

or  so.  In  this  method  one  should  use  a  raised  per- 
forated bottom  to  keep  from  bottom  of  kettle  or  they 
will  cook  too  much  on  one  side.  Different  sizes  and  dif- 
ferent kinds  require  more  or  less  time. 

SHIRRED  EGGS    (Baked  Eggs) 

Cover  the  bottoms  of  small  dishes  with  bread 
crumbs,  being  sure  that  the  bread  is  fresh.  Into  each 
dish  break  one  or  two  eggs.  Dust  the  tops  with  fresh 
bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Nearly  fill  a  shallow 
pan  with  hot  water  and  set  in  the  oven,  standing  the 
little  dishes  containing  the  eggs  in  the  water,  until  the 
whites  are  set.  Serve  individually  or  on  platter  of 
toast.    They  can  also  be  baked  together  in  one  dish. 

EGG  TIMBALES 

Small  or  large  timbale  molds  may  be  used.  Cold 
tongue  or  any  nice  cold  meat  left  over  may  be  used. 
Chop  the  meat  and  after  brushing  the  molds  well  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  the  bottom  and  sides  thickly 
with  the  chopped  meat.  Then  break  into  each  mold 
an  egg  (two  if  molds  are  large),  and  dust  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  a  half  teaspoonful  of  butter  on  top  of 
each  egg.  Then  stand  the  molds  in  a  dripping  pan 
which  is  half  full  of  boiling  water.  Cover  tops  wifh 
oiled  or  paraffin  paper  and  cook  in  the  oven  till  eggs 
are  set.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  heated  platter  with  to- 
mato sauce  (recipe  elsewhere).  If  a  very  pretty  dish  is 
desired,  cut  rounds  of  bread  with  a  bakipg  powder  can 
and  toast,  set  these  into  the  tomato  sauce,  then  loosen 
the  eggs  from  mold  with  a  knife  and  place  on  top  of 
each  round  of  toast.  Then  a  tablespoonful  of  cream 
gravy  may  be  placed  on  top  of  each  egg  and  the  edge 
of  platter  garnished  with  green  peas.  This  dish  is 
delicious  and  nourishing  and  can  be  made  both  very 
plain  or  very  fancy  as  required. 


THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK  85 

"WHITE  AND  GOLD"  OMELET 

For  luncheon  for  three  people,  beat  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  4  or  5  eggs  separately.  To  the  yolks,  when 
light,  add  a  sprinkle  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  not  many. 
Then  add  milk  as  for  a  regular  milk  omelet  (2  table- 
spoonfuls  to  an  egg).  After  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper,  pour  into  a  hot  buttered  pan  (I  like  the  heavy 
iron  spiders  best  as  they  hold  the  temperature  more 
evenly). 

While  this  is  cooking,  get  the  whites  real  stiff. 
When  the  omelet  begins  to  thicken  and  brown  on  the 
under  side,  spread  the  white  over  it  and  let  them  stay 
long  enough  to  become  set  through.  It  is  well 
to  cover  both  while  setting  and  the  temperature  should 
be  low.  Roll  omelet  or  fold  half  over  and  set  on  heated 
platter  garnished  with   lettuce  or  parsley  if  desired. 

If  one  has  two  small  iron  spiders,  one  can  arrange 
this  like  a  layer  cake,  in  either  two  or  four  layers,  by 
putting  the  whites  in  one  to  cook,  and  the  yolks  in  the 
other  or  dividing  and  putting  part  of  each  in  each 
pan. 

Various  omelets  can  be  made  from  chopped  meat, 
jelly  or  even  a  nice  bread  stuffing  heated  in  the  oven. 
These  can  be  folded  into  the  omelet  and  neatly  served 
and  sliced. 

STEAMED  EGGS 

Rub  butter  on  cups  or  custard  baking  cups.  Break 
eggs,  one  or  two  in  a  cup,  and  set  in  steamer  till  set. 
Better  if  cups  are  heated  first.  Serve  individually  or 
on  platter  of  toast. 

POTATO  OMELET 

Beaten  eggs  may  be  poured  over  fried  potatoes, 
cover  and  move  to  back  of  range.  A  little  milk  may 
be  added  to  the  yolks  of  any  omelet. 


86  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

Have  frying  pan  hot  with  about  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  butter  and  dripping.  Simply  beat  eggs  and  add  a 
little  milk,  about  3  tablespoonfuls  to  an  tgg.  Fry 
slowly  and  keep  them  lightly  scraped  from  the  bot- 
tom. These  are  quickly  made.  Season  and  remove  as 
soon  as  scrambled  or  they  will  become  watery.  Serve 
on  hot  platter  of  lettuce,  parsley  or  toast. 

ARMY  FRIED  EGGS 

Have  about  a  teaspoonful  each  of  dripping  and  but- 
ter in  hot  frying  pan.  Drop  in  2  or  3  eggs  and  break 
and  stir  quickly.  Season,  This  is  the  quickest  way  to 
prepare  eggs. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS     (Spanish  Style) 

Brown  about  2  onions  for  about  6  eggs.  Season 
with  a  little  red  pepper  or  paprika.  Four  over  them 
the  beaten  eggs  and  scramble  as  above. 

ARMY  SCRAMBLED  EGGS 

(Might  be  called  Pork  Omelet) 

Fry  little,  thin  pieces  of  salt  pork  and  left  over  strips 
of  ham  fat  and  bacon,  nice  and  brown.  Pour  off  near- 
ly all  grease  except  enough  to  fry  the  eggs.  Beat  about 
5  or  6  eggs  anil  pour  over  the  pork;  cover  about  two 
minutes,  very  low  temperature. 

HARD  BOILED  EGGS 

Many  dishes  can  be  made  from  hard  boiled  eggs 
which,  if  boiled  at  a  low  temperature,  are  not  so  hard 
to  digest.  If  simmered  for  twenty-five  or  thirty-five 
minutes,  they  will  be  mealy  and  better  flavored  than 
when  cooked  too  fast. 


THE   HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  87  3 

STUFFED  EGGS 

These  are  often  called  "deviled  eggs."  Simmer  till 
hard,  remove  shell,  cut  through  the  middle,  take  out 
yolk,  carefully  leaving  the  white  whole  (unbroken). 
Mash  the  yolks  with  a  fork,  add  to  them  some  chopped 
cold  meat,  about  2  rounding  teaspoonfuls  to  an  egg, 
salt,  a  very  little  vinegar  or  mayonnaise,  about  1 
teaspoonful  to  3  eggs,  mustard  about  as  for  salad 
dressing,  dash  of  cayenne  or  paprika,  olive  oil,  butter 
or  raw  yolk,  to  make  moist  and  smooth  or  mayonnaise. 
Mix  well,  fill  the  whites  and  serve  in  bed  of  lettuce  or 
parsley,  or  leave  out  olive  oil  and  spread  what  is  left 
of  falling  on  bottom  of  baking  dish.  Stand  the  stuffed 
whites  in  this  and  warm  in  oven. 

These  can  be  made  several  ways,  meat  left  out  and 
bread  crumbs  used,  chopped  onion  used  for  flavor. 

The  filling  makes  a  change  for  sandwiches  or  the 
stuffed  eggs  wrapped  in  paraffin  paper  is  nice  for  a 
change  in  lunch  basket. 

OMELET  FOR  THE  SICK 

Beat  1  egg,  add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  of  cream  and 
1  of  milk,  season  lightly  with  salt.  Have  ready  two 
nice  slices  of  toasted  bread.  Fry  like  a  pancake  just 
a  little  butter  and  fold  to  center  and  lay  on  the  toast. 
One  egg  will  make  two.  They  cook  in  about  half  a 
minute.  Very  nice.  Have  frying  pan  moderately — 
not  too  hot.     Cover  a  second  if  desired. 

Many  other  recipes  for  eggs  will  be  found  in  alma- 
nacs or  little  recipe  books  which  can  be  had  for  the 
asking.  The  only  thing  is  to  remember  the  principle 
of  low  temperature. 


88  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 


SALADS 


A  salad  is  a  preparation  of  meat,  fish,  fruit  or  vege- 
tables, separately  or  in  combination,  and  served  with 
diflferent  dressings. 

Never  serve  a  heavy  salad  with  a  dinner  where 
there  are  several  courses.  Heavy  salads  are  meat  and 
fish  salad  and  can  be  served  with  soup,  or  at  luncheon. 

Rubbing  the  dish  with  garlic  or  onion  is  sufficient 
flavoring  for  some  salads. 

The  prettiest  way  to  serve  salads  is  individually.  Do 
not  serve  heavy  salads  in  glass  dishes.  All  material 
for  salads  should  be  very  cold  and  in  nearly  all  cases 
prepared  beforehand.  Put  together  and  put  on  dress- 
ing the  last  thing  before  serving,  because  in  salads 
where  leaves  are  used,  they  will  wilt,  if  allowed  to 
stand  too  long. 

Lettuce  and  celery  should  be  washed  in  salt  water, 
then  in  clear,  cold  water  and  wiped.  Watercress  and 
celery  the  same.  Don't  prepare  any  starch  foods  with 
vinegar,  because  the  acid  is  against  the  digestion  of 
sugar.  Nut  salads  and  soups  are  very  good  for  in- 
valids and  should  be  served  in  glass  dishes. 

No  bacteria  (germs)  can  live  in  an  acid  medium. 
There  is  acid  in  oranges,  lemons,  apples,  etc. 

Cellulose  in  oranges,  is  the  white  part  and  should 
not  be  used.  Cellulose  in  bananas  is  the  white  part  on 
the  outside  and  should  be  scraped  ofT  after  peeling. 
Cut  bananas  for  salad  one-fourth  lengthwise  and  then 
crosswise  three  times.  Four  ordinary  sized  oranges 
make  a  cup  of  juice.  Targon  has  tonic  effects  and  adds 
a  great  deal  to  fruit  salads.  For  a  cup  of  dressing,  a 
very  small  teaspoonful  of  targon  cut  up  fine  is  suf- 
ficient. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  93 

LEMONADE  DRESSING 

Equal  parts  of  sugar,  lemon  and  water.  In  addition 
a  few  shredded  leaves  of  mint  and  targon,  will  im- 
prove it  greatly. 

TARGON  DRESSING 

One  small  teaspoonful  of  chopped  targon  to  5^  cup 
of  lemonade  dressing.  This  can  be  served  over  straw- 
berries, tomatoes,  oranges  and  bananas. 

ALMOND  DRESSING 

(This  is  too  expensive  for  common  use).  Very  good. 

Two  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  almond  butter,  2 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  ^  cup  of  water,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  lemon  juice,  j4  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Rub  the 
almond  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  water 
and  let  boil  .in  double  boiler,  add  lemon  juice  and  salt. 
Strain  through  wire  sieve  and  serve.  Is  good  over 
apples,  lettuce  and  chopped  walnuts.  Almond  dress- 
ing or  other  dressings  m.ay  be  used  with  apples  and 
bananas ;  apples  and  oranges,  apples  and  pineapples ; 
oranges,   pineapples    and   strawberries. 

ORANGE  DRESSING  FOR  SALADS 

Very  good  and  easily  made. 

Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  orange  juice,  }i  cup  lemon 
juice,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  thin  rind  j4  of  an 
orange.  Do  not  put  any  of  the  white  part  in,  as  this 
is  the  poisonous  part.  When  ready  to  serve,  remove 
the  orange  rind.  This  is  delicious  served  over  fruit 
salad  No.  1. 

FRUIT  SALAD  NO.  1 

Cut  up  3  bananas,  3  apples  and  3  oranges  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  orange  dressing.  This  is  suffi- 
cient for  seven  people.  Three  or  four  California  grapes 


0  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

and  half  walnuts  on  top  of  each  dish,  make  it  very 
pretty.  This  is  very  good  for  invalids.  It  is  inexpens- 
ive and  easily  made.  The  white  should  all  be  scraped 
off  the  oranges.  The  fruits  and  dressing  may  be  pre- 
pared beforehand  and  placed  on  ice,  but  dressing 
should  not  be  put  on  until  ready  to  serve. 

FRUIT  SALAD  NO.  2 

Cut  up  2  or  3  oranges  in  small  pieces,  2  bananas 
sliced,  ^  cup  of  English  walnuts.  Cook  1  cup  cran- 
berries in  1  pint  of  water,  with  pinch  of  soda,  till  they 
begin  to  pop,  then  drain.  Bind  together  with  a  syrup 
made  of  ^  cup  of  water  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Put  cran- 
berries into  syrup  and  cook  until  they  color  the  syrup. 
Pour  over  bananas,  oranges  and  nuts  and  set  to  cool. 

APPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

For  four  or  five  people  take  2  cups  of  very  nice  eat- 
ing apples,  chopped  a  little  in  the  chopping  bowl,  and 
1  cup  of  the  inner  stalks  and  heart  of  celery  broken  a 
little  with  the  chopping  knife  or  cut  in  fine  pieces  with 
a  paring  knife  and  ^  cup  of  English  walnuts  broken  a 
little  or  chopped  rather  coarse  in  chopping  bowl.  Pre- 
pare all  three  and  put  in  ice  box.  When  ready  to 
serve,  mix  with  Yz.  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing  with 
about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  added  to  it.  Good 
cream  either  sweet  or  sour.  The  boiled  dressing  may 
be  used  instead  of  mayonnaise. 

Salads  are  wholesome  and  refreshing  in  very  warm 
weather,  if  made  very  simple,  keeping  in  mind  a  few 
of  the  principles  governing  digestion.  They  are  eco- 
nomical and  therefore  should  not  belong  entirely  to 
the  fashionable  world,  as  most  all  left  overs  can  be 
made  into  delicious  salads. 

The  three  kinds  of  dressing  most  often  used,  are 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  9ij3 

French,  mayonnaise  and  boiled  dressing,  which  are 
very  good,  especially  the  French  dressing,  which  is  so 
simple  and  easy  to  make. 

Too  much  cannot  be  said  as  to  the  value  of  olive 
oil  to  the  human  system.  It  is  an  acquired  taste,  but 
many  would  be  glad  to  learn.  It  has  been  very  ex- 
pensive in  past  years,  but  so  many  people  are  taking 
up  the  cultivation  of  the  olive  tree,  that  I  hope  it  will 
soon  be  within  reach  of  all.  Vegetable  salads  are  gen- 
erally better  with  the  French  dressing.  Olives  are 
a  nice  garnish  or  mixture  with  most  of  the  vegetable 
salads,  and  some  of  the  fish  salads. 

Radishes  whole,  or  partly  peeled  back  like  a  quart- 
ered orange  skin,  is  a  pretty  garnish ;  also  cold  boiled 
eggs  sliced.  Eggs  should  be  simmered  slowly  one-half 
hour.  Olives  make  a  nice  garnish  but  are  rather  ex- 
pensive. Cold  boiled  carrots  and  beets  also  make  pretty 
garnishes.  These  are  only  a  few.  The  following  are 
a  few  of  the  many  combinations,  w'hich  may  be  used 
for  salads.  It  is  easy  to  make  up  one's  own  combina- 
tions. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  onions  and  lettuce.  Not  too 
many  onions  and  those  which  have  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  and  parboiled  about  one  minute. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  and  celery. 

New,  small  onions,  cold  potatoes  and  chopped  pars- 
ley (very  nice  with  French  dressing), 

Sliced  cucumbers  and  sliced  new  onions. 

Cabbage  alone  sliced  (not  too  fine)  with  French, 
mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing. 

Lettuce  and  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  cold  boiled 
beets.  These  may  be  mixed  or  they  make  a  very 
pretty  dish  arranged  separately. 

Endive,  celery,  beets  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  either 
mixed  or  arranged  separately. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  baked  or  stewed  beans,  mixed 


i  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

slightly  and  but  little,  so  as  to  mash  the  beans  as  little 
as  possible. 

Lima  beans  are  excellent  but  expensive,  beets  and 
carrots  may  be  added. 

Cold  boiled  peas  and  string  beans. 

Asparagus  tops  and  cauliflower  may  be  added  or 
other  vegetables. 

Do  not  cut  vegetables  too  fine. 

Cold  baked  navy  beans  alone  or  served  on  lettuce 
leaves,  either  in  one  dish  or  individually  with  mayon- 
naise dressing  or  boiled  dressing.  Cold  boiled  beets 
and  watercress. 

String  beans  alone.  Should  be  simmered  about  two 
hours  in  salted  water  and  about  an  hour  before  putting 
the  dressing  on,  flavor  with  a  little  pepper  and  vinegar 
and  olive  oil  or  melted  butter. 

SALAD  DRESSING     (Boiled) 

One  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  or  more  if  vinegar  is  very  strong,  1 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1  scant  teaspoonful  of 
muatard  (dry),  1  scant  cup  of  vinegar,  1  or  2  eggs, 
ji  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper,  paprika,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg. 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  well  together.  Put  into 
a  little  double  boiler  with  the  vinegar,  and  stir  till 
rather  thick,  then  cover  and  let  steam  from  four  to 
ten  minutes  to  cook  flour  well.  Add  a  little  butter. 
Remove  from  fire  and  beat  to  cool  about  one  minute 
before  pouring  over  the  beaten  eggs.  If  poured  on 
too  hot,  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Very  nice  for  cabbage, 
potatoes,  shrimp  or  anything  that  can  be  used  with 
mayonnaise.  This  will  keep  in  icebox  for  a  week. 
When  using  it,  take  out  what  is  needed  and  if  desired, 
add  a  little  sour  or  whipped  cream,  but  not  to  the 
part  left  in  icebox,  or  it  will  spoil. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  93 

MAYONNAISE     (Raw) 

The  secret  of  mayonnaise  is  to  have  dishes  and  all 
ingredients  ice  cold.  Yolks  of  3  or  3  eggs,  raw,  1 
heaping  teaspoonftil  salt,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar  (may  be  omitted  if  one  desires),  Yz  teaspoonful 
mustard,  about  y%  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper,  Y2  to 
1  cup  of  olive  oil,  1-3  to  Yz  as  much  vinegar  as  oil, 
juice  of  ^  to  1  whole  lemon. 

If  taste  for  olive  oil  has  not  been  acquired,  then 
substitute  part  butter  and  gradually  increase  the  quan- 
tity of  olive  oil  each  time  the  dressing  is  made.  Put 
the  eggs  in  a  round  bowl  and  beat  with  Dover  ^^% 
beater  a  little,  then  add  the  dry  ingredients  which 
have  been  all  mixed  together,  except  the  cayenne. 
Beat  in  the  oil,  drop  by  drop  till  the  ^^%  has  absorbed 
all  of  it,  then  slowly  add  the  vinegar  and  lemon  juice 
and  again  the  oil,  and  again  the  vinegar,  be  cautious 
about  the  cayenne  as  a  very  little  will  do.  It  must  be 
all  done  slowly  and  carefully  to  prevent  curdling.  This 
will  keep  some  time  in  a  bottle  or  fruit  can  in  the  ice- 
box and  whipped  or  sour  cream  may  be  added  to  the 
part  used  each  time  if  desired. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

Take  ^  vinegar  and  Yz  oil,  salt  to  taste  and  very  lit- 
tle cayenne  or  paprika.  Mix  in  a  rounding  bowl  or 
some  utensil  easy  to  mix  in.  Beat  salt  into  the  oil, 
add  vinegar  slowly  and  last  of  all  the  pepper.  This 
can  be  kept  in  an  icebox  some  time.  Mix  before  using 
each  time.  This  may  be  flavored  with  targon,  or  1 
teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  but  is  very  nice 
alone. 

TOMATO  SALAD  NO.  1 

Tomatoes  can  be  made  into  salad  in  many  pretty 
ways.    One  very  easy  way  is  to  peel  and  slice  toma- 


04  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK   BOOK 

toes,  putting  each  one  back  in  its  place  after  dipping 
in  mayonnaise  so  that  it  will  appear  like  a  whole  to- 
mato, and  then  put  a  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise  on 
top.    Very  pretty  served  on  a  lettuce  leaf. 

TOMATO  SALAD  NO.  2 

Scrape  out  the  inside  of  the  tomatoes  and  fill  with 
celery  cut  rather  small  and  dressed  with  mayonnaise. 
Can  also  be  stuffed  with  other  salads.  Either  one  of 
these  salads  would  be  nice  every  day  during  the 
tomato  season. 

TOMATO  SALAD  NO.  3 

Sliced  tomatoes  upon  a  platter  or  salad  dish  of  let- 
tuce or  upon  individual  salad  plates  of  lettuce  and 
dress  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

CELERY  AND  EGG  SALAD 

Three  bunches  of  celery,  6  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced, 
3  medium  sized  potatoes,  1  pickle,  1  tea  cup  walnuts. 

Chop  potatoes  and  pickle  fine,  season  with  salt  and 
cayenne.  Mix  with  mayonnaise.  Serve  in  tomato 
shells  or  on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  glass  dishes. 

CELERY  AND  NUT  SALAD 
(Cheap  and  easy  to  make) 

One  cupful  peanuts  chopped  fine,  after  shells  and 
skins  are  removed.  One  cupful  or  more  chopped  cel- 
ery, and  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine.  Mix  with 
your  favorite  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or 
in  small  glass  dishes.  A  few  potatoes  added  might 
make  it  fill  out  for  a  larger  number,  or  left  over  stew 
or  meat.  Avoid  the  use  of  potatoes  as  far  as  possible 
in  all  salads,  as  they  contain  starch. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  95 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Even  quantities  of  chicken  and  celery  chopped  very- 
fine,  about  2  cups  or  more  of  each.  Chicken  which  has 
been  nicely  roasted  or  simmered  should  be  used. 

DRESSING 

Yolks  of  3  raw  eggs,  >^  teacup  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
vinegar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  (even),  y^  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  >4  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar. 

Stir  butter  into  eggs,  add  vinegar,  salt,  mustard, 
pepper  and  sugar.  Put  into  double  boiler,  stir  rapidly 
until  it  thickens.  Cool  and  when  ready  to  serve,  add 
cup  of  whipped  cream  if  desired.  Use  celery  leaves 
for  decoration. 

OYSTER  SALAD     (Very  expensive  but  delicious) 

Two  cans  cove  oysters,  Yz  bunch  celery,  2  sour 
pickles  (chopped)  1  cup  of  vinegar  (diluted  with 
water,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  ^  boiled  potatoes,  other 
half  of  salad,  yolks  of  7  eggs,  1  large  teaspoonful  of 
cornstarch  or  2  of  flour.  Put  in  double  boiler  and 
stir  until  thick.  This  recipe  is  not  scientific  as  so 
much  starch  is  used,  but  it  is  delicious.  Use  one^half 
amount  of  salad  bulk  in  oysters  and  balance  of  pota- 
toes and  celery. 

SHRIMP  SALAD 

Two  cans  of  shrimps,  3  bunches  of  celery  or  3 
bunches  of  lettuce  (inner  leaves),  Remove  fish  from 
can,  soak  one-half  hour  in  ice  water  to  make  crisp  and 
tender,  break  into  bits^  not  smaller  than  one-half  inch 
cubes.  Use  lettuce  or  celery,  whichever  is  in  season. 
Mix  with  mayonnaise  or  your  favorite  dressing. 


96  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

COLD  SLAW 

One  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  of  sugar,  scant  cup  of 
vinegar,  dash  of  red  pepper.  Pour  over  dish  of  raw 
cabbage  cut  fine. 

HOT  SLAW 

Put  into  an  iron  spider,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
dripping.  When  hot,  add  about  a  quart  of  finely 
shaved  or  chopped  cabbage.  Let  cook  slowly  for  fif- 
teen minutes  and  then  move  to  back  of  stove.  When 
about  ready  to  serve,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
little  sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  If  so  de- 
sired, a  cup  of  sweet  cream  may  be  added. 

BEET  RELISH 

One  bowl  chopped  cabbage,  1  bowl  of  chopped 
boiled  beets,  1  cup  of  prepared  horseradish,  salt,  and 
sugar  if  desired.  Put  in  bJ^tles  with  wide  mouth  and 
cork.    Excellent  in  about  a  week.    Eat  with  meat. 

ANOTHER  RECIPE 

One  bowl  each  of  chopped  red  cabbage  and  boiled 
beets,  1  cup  of  chopped  onion  (parboiled  1  minute  and 
drained),  1  cup  of  grated  horseradish,  13^  cups  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  ^  teaspoonful  each  of 
black  and  red  pepper,  about  1  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix 
and  bottle. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  97 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 

"The  Staff  of  Life" 


A  paraphrase  of  Dr.  Johnson's.  "Whenever  the 
bread  is  ill  made,  there  is  poverty,  or  there  is  avarice, 
or  there  is  stupidity ;  in  short,  the  family  is  somewhere 
grossly  wrong." 

Wholesome  bread  must  be  light  (grained  not 
feathery)  and  well  baked,  and  never  sour. 

The  quantity  of  liquid  used  should  be  measured  in- 
stead of  measuring  the  flour. 

The  temperature  to  raise  bread  in  should  not  be  be- 
low 68  nor  above  90  degrees.  Best  bread  is  made  at 
68  to  78  degrees. 

To  test  flour  for  bread,  take  up  handful,  close  hand 
on  it,  then  open.  If  it  makes  an  impression  or  stays 
together,  flour  is  good,  or  stick  finger  in  and  if  the 
impression  is  left,  the  flour  is  good. 

The  yellow  flour  is  best  for  bread. 

If  flour  is  very  white,  alum  has  been  used,  and  it 
is  not  good. 

Winter  wheat  is  best  for  bread — it  has  more  gluten 
in  it  which  forms  elastic  pockets  for  the  yeast  plant. 

Spring  wheat  is  best  for  cake — it  has  less  gluten  in 
it. 

Gluten  has  all  to  do  with  raising  the  bread.  A  gas 
carbon-dioxide,  raises  the  bread  and  gluten  is  elastic 
and  holds  the  gas  in  pockets  (cells),  hence,  white  bread 
is  more  spongy. 

The  softer  the  dough,  the  better  the  bread. 

All    germ    diseases    known    are    fungi    or    plant 

7 


98  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

growth.  Yeast  is  a  plant  and  the  lowest  form  of 
plant  life.  If  without  yeast,  one  could  start  a  plant 
by  putting  water  and  sugar  in  flour  and  let  it  ferment. 
Yeast  must  be  good  or  bread  will  not  be  good.  One 
can  test  it  by  putting  in  a  cup  or  bowl  with  a  little 
warm  water,  sugar  and  flour.  If  it  foams  or  bubbles 
in  a  few  minutes  it  is  good. 

Conditions  and  essentials  for  growth  of  yeast  plant 
— heat,  moisture,  sugar. 

Grapes  have  yeast  property.  Sugar  causes  ferment 
in  grapes.     All  ferments  are  sugar. 

Ascetic  fermentation  takes  place  about  90  degrees 
and  above  or  when  the  bread  is  left  to  raise  too  long. 

A  dark  streak  in  bread  is  due  to  light  temperature. 

More  yeast  makes  bread  tender.  A  penny  cake  of 
compressed  yeast  to  1  pint  or  1^^  pints  liquid,  makes 
best  bread. 

The  object  of  kneading  is  to  make  bread  fine  grained. 
This  should  consist  of  a  rolling  motion,  keeping  the 
dough  turning  at  same  time,  and  does  not  require  a 
great  deal  of  force  nor  any  punching  or  pounding. 

TTo  brown  it. 
Objects  of      J  To  aid  digestion. 
Baking  Bread   [  To  kill  the  yeast  plant. 
LTo  liberate  the  gases. 


Most 

Common-" 

Flour 


r  White. 
Graham. 
Entire  Wheat 
(best  and  highest 
priced). 


After  baking,  bread  should  always  be  put  on  a  cake 
rest  or  the  molding  board — if  there  is  no  cake  rest, 
across  the  tins,  but  never  put  away  while  warm.  It 
must  be  entirely  cold. 

Tough  bread  comes  from  too  low  a  temperature 
when  first  put  in  the  oven.  To  remedy  this,  butter 
quickly  about  twenty  minutes  after  putting  in  oven. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  99 

Ropey  bread  is  a  bread  disease.  It  is  caused  from 
bacteria  in  the  place  where  it  is  made,  which  is  con- 
taminated. Everything  about  the  place  should  be 
disinfected.  There  are  other  bread  diseases  as  well 
which  should  be  all  remedied  by  disinfection.  Bread 
should  not  rise  more  than  twice  the  original  bulk. 
About  iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  should  be  used  to  1 
pint  of  liquid. 

In  cold  weather,  all  materials  used  in  baking  bread, 
should  be  kept  in  a  warm  room  over  night  and  bring 
out  only  as  much  flour  as  needed,  for  if  all  is  brought 
out,  the  changing  of  temperature,  spoils  it.  Flour  must 
be  kept  closed  as  it  absorbs  moisture  very  readily. 

If  in  a  hurry  with  bread  the  next  day  make  a  little 
well  in  some  flour  in  the  bread  bowl  the  night  before 
with  about  y^  cup  of  water,  little  sugar  and  the  com- 
pressed yeast  cake.  You  will  find  this  quite  a  little 
start  in  the  morning. 

BAKING  BREAD 

The  very  best  bread  may  be  spoiled  in  the  baking. 
For  large  loaves,  the  oven  should  be  very  hot  the  first 
fifteen  minutes,  that  is  hot  enough  to  brown  them 
lightly  in  ten  minutes,  or  so  hot  that  you  can  hold 
your  hand  in  the  oven  while  you  count  twenty,  rather 
fast;  the  second  fifteen  minutes,  "not  quite  so  hot  as  the 
first  fifteen ;  the  third  fifteen  minutes  not  so  hot  as  the 
second,  and  the  last  fifteen  minutes  a  little  cooler  still 
or  just  slowly  baking  that  is  all. 

With  the  gas  range  it  is  easy  to  regulate  this  heat 
or  with  a  little  study  the  coal  or  wood  range  may  be 
easily  regulated. 

The  gas  range  should  be  lighted  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes before  the  bread  is  ready  to  bake  and  may  be 
turned  out  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  the  bread  is 
taken  out.  '     • 


100  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

For  small  loaves,  the  temperature  should  be 
changed  every  ten  minutes  instead  of  fifteen. 

Large  loaves  should  bake  at  least  one  hour  or  one 
and  a  quarter  hours.  Small  loaves  thirty  to  forty  min- 
utes. Bread  should  be  grainy  in  appearance  when  cut 
not  spongy  or  feathery. 

EVERY  DAY  BREAD  (Cheap)  NO.  1 

For  four  good  sized  loaves. 

Ingredients — Nearly  1^4  quarts  of  lukewarm  water, 
1  compressed  yeast  cake  (two  cents),  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful  salt,  1^/2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 

Rule — take  large  earthenware  dish  with  cover  and 
sift  into  it,  about  2  quarts  of  flour.  Make  a  little  well 
in  the  center  of  the  flour.  Put  yeast  cake  in  the  well 
and  pour  upon  it  a  little  of  the  water.  Let  stand  five  to 
ten  minutes,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  the 
rest  of  the  water,  being  very  careful  not  to  have 
water  too  warm,  better  have  it  too  cool  than  too  warm. 
Beat  it  about  five  minutes  and  let  stand  for  an  hour  or 
two  or  till  it  is  rather  light.  If  it  does  not  start  to 
bubble,  sometimes  beating  it  will  start  it.  Beat  again 
and  when  ready  to  knead,  cut  in  flour  with  spoon  and 
hands  till  it  can  be  turned  on  to  the  molding  board. 
Knead  fifteen  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  get  it 
too  stiff.  Put  back  in  dish  and  let  stand  till  twice 
its  original  bulk.  Turn  on  to  the  board  again  and 
knead  five  minutes,  then  cut  and  mould  into  loaves. 
Single  pans  are  best.  Cover  with  a  towel  doubled 
and  let  them  rise  till  twice  their  size.  Bake  one  hour 
if  four  large  loaves,  or  about  thirty-five  to  forty  min- 
utes if  seven  or  eight  small  ones. 

This  bread  can  be  completed  in  five  hours  from  start 
to  finish,  if  temperature  is  warm  and  yeast  good,  but 
sometimes  it  takes  six  to  eight  hours. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  101 

BREAD  NO.  2.    (Brewers'  or  Potato  Yeast) 

Same  as  No.  1  except  using  a  different  kind  of  yeast. 
When  the  compressed  can  not  be  obtained,  then  about 
one  and  a  half  or  two  days  before  making  bread,  put 
in  fruit  jar,  a  large  boiled,  mashed  potato  or  a  grated 
raw  one  with  the  water  it  has  been  boiled  in  and  J^ 
yeast  cake  (dry)  or  a  whole  cake  if  desired,  ^  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  or  more  of  sugar  and 
a  little  flour.  Do  not  have  the  jar  too  full,  about  a 
little  more  than  half.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  ferment, 
with  cover  on  jar,  not  too  tight.  Fermentation  takes 
a  day  or  two  according  to  temperature. 

About  2  cups  of  this  ought  to  make  four  loaves  of 
bread,  though  more  does  not  hurt. 

This  same  yeast  can  also  be  made  with  the  water 
drained  off  of  the  peeled  potatoes  which  have  been 
boiled  for  dinner.  This  kind  of  yeast  makes  the  bread 
more  moist  than  the  compressed  yeast  and  there  is  no 
danger  of  injuring  the  flavor  of  the  bread  by  an  ex- 
cess of  this  yeast.  It  is  almost  as  lively  as  the  com- 
pressed yeast. 

Not  necessary  to  use  quite  as  much  liquid  for  this 
as  when  compressed  yeast  is  used.  When  starting 
the  yeast,  use  a  clean  jar  each  time. 

MILK  AND  WATER  BREAD 

(Very  good  but  rather  expensive) 

One  cup  scalded  milk,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  table- 
spoonful  lard,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1^/^  teaspoonfuls 
salt,  6  cups  sifted  white  flour  or  1  cup  of  white  flour 
and  5  of  entire  wheat  flour  may  be  used,  1  penny  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  ^  cup  lukewarm  water.  Follow 
rules  for  mixing  and  kneading  nearly  the  same  as  No. 
1.  More  kneading  would  make  it  finer  grained.  A 
little  sugar  if  desired. 


102  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

SWEDISH   ROLLS.     (Very  nice) 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  butter,  2 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  penny  cake 
of  yeast  mixed  with  white  of  1  egg  in  3^  cup  of  water. 
Knead  and  let  rise  once.  Knead  again  and  flavor  with 
currants  and  cinnamon.     Make  into  rolls  and  let  rise. 

TOAST 

The  most  important  breakfast  dish  is  toast.  Bread 
simply  seared  and  browned  on  the  outside  is  as  indi- 
gestible as  fresh  baked  bread.  Toast  is  made  too  fast. 
Toast  should  never  be  scraped,  which  it  won't  have  to 
be  if  made  right.  Warm  the  bread  in  the  oven  from 
three  to  five  minutes  so  that  it  is  well  warmed 
through,  then  take  fork  and  brown  not  too  close  to 
the  coals,  or  instead  of  warming  in  oven,  hold  at  suffi- 
cient distance  from  the  coals  to  heat  through  nicely 
and  still  brown. 

The  little  bee  hive  toasters  do  very  nicely  if  not  al- 
lowed to  get  too  hot,  or  the  broiler  of  a  gas  range. 
Cut  the  bread  neither  too  thick  nor  too  thin,  about 
one-half  inch  slices.  In  toasting  bread  properly  starch 
is  changed  to  dextrin,  thereby  aiding  digestion,  leav- 
ing less  work  for  the  stomach  and  hence  used  so  much 
for  the  sick. 

ZWEIBACH.    (Twice  baked  bread) 

This  is  invaluable  for  the  invalid  or  one  suffering 
from  weak  stomach.  Take  bread  about  a  day  or  so 
old  and  slice  rather  thin  about  one-quarter  inch  thick. 
Lay  on  dripping  pan  or  pie  tins,  in  moderate  oven. 
Bake  ten  minutes  then  turn  slices  and  bake  ten  more 
— not  necessary  to  brown,  just  a  slight  tinge  here  and 
there.  Prepare  enough  for  two  or  three  days  and  keep 
in  a  well  aired  or  scalded  tin  box  covered  tightly.    It 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  103 

is  well  to  wrap  in  paraffin  paper  and  when  going  to 
serve,  take  out  what  is  needed  and  toast  brown  with 
toasting  fork  or  toaster.  It  has  better  effect  if  eaten 
dry  with  a  little  butter.  The  one  objection  is  that  it 
cannot  be  masticated  without  plenty  of  noise.  One 
enjoys  it  most  alone  in  their  room  or  out  of  doors. 

BAKING  POWDER  OR  SODA  BISCUITS 

Like  pie  crust,  the  secret  of  success  is  in  getting  the 
shortening  well  mixed  with  the  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt  are  much  easier  rubbed  with  one's  hands  than 
with  a  knife. 

If  you  make  your  own  baking  powder,  ^  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  cup  of  flour  is  sufficient.  See  recipe  for 
Baking  Powder.  Sift  flour  with  baking  powder  and 
salt  (about  1  rounding  teaspoonful  to  3  cups  of  flour). 
Use  1  good  tablespoonful  or  better  of  shortening.  Any 
nice,  clean  tried  out  shortening  or  dripping  will  do, 
only  if  for  a  convalescent,  use  butter  or  a  very  nice 
grade  of  oleomargarine  (not  butterine).  Like  pie 
crust,  wet  carefully  with  sweet  milk  (water  is  very 
good  also)  (cream  is  delicious,  either  sour  or  sweet), 
pouring  on  in  small  quantities  here  and  there  and 
lightly  and  quickly  stirring  with  dessert  spoon  from 
outside  toward  center.  Mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled 
and  handle  as  little  and  as  quick  as  possible  after  mix- 
ing. Roll  with  just  enough  flour  to  prevent  sticking. 
Cut  with  baking  powder  can  or  (fried)  potato  cutter 
and  put  on  floured  (slightly)  pie  tins  or  dripping  pan. 
This  method  never  fails.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  mod- 
erate oven  till  a  rich  brown,  longer  baking  does  no 
harm.  For  the  sour  cream  or  milk,  if  not  sour  enough, 
use  1  teaspoonful  either  of  baking  powder  or  cream  of 
tartar  with  flour  and  1  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  sal- 
eratus  to  a  cup  or  1^  cups  of  cream  or  milk.  Dissolve 
soda  in  a  ^  of  a  cup  of  warm  water  and  mix  with  the 


104  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

milk.    Three  cups  of  flour  will  make  biscuits  for  three 
or  four  people. 

The  soda  and  baking  powder  may  be  mixed  with 
the  flour.  One  is  apt  to  use  too  much  soda,  but  a 
little  practice  will  correct  this.  For  shortcake  use 
about  1^  good  tablespoonfuls  of  shortening. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD.     (Delicious) 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  54  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  molas- 
ses 1^  teaspoonfuls  salt,  1  penny  yeast  cake  in  J4 
cup  luke  warm  water,  4^  cups  entire  wheat  flour.  This 
can  be  made  with  more  milk  or  water  and  mix  soft  as 
cake  or  kneaded  as  white  bread,  better  kneaded.  This 
recipe  makes  two  small  loaves ;  let  rise  at  least  once 
before  putting  in  pan.  The  entire  wheat  flour  is  the 
healthiest  flour  made;  the  fine  white  flour  has  a  con- 
stipating tendency,  thereby  locking  up  a  great  deal  of 
poison  in  the  system  that  should  be  carried  off.  For 
another  recipe  see  milk  and  water  bread. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 

Two  and  a  half  cups  warm  liquid,  ^  cup  molasses, 
1^  teaspoonfuls  salt,  ^  yeast  cake  in  j^  cup  of  luke 
warm  water,  3  cups  white  flour,  3  cups  graham  flour,  a 
little  sugar  may  be  used  if  desired. 

Prepare  as  white  bread  and  bake.  Half  of  the  bat- 
ter for  white  bread  may  be  used  and  add  the  other 
ingredients.  The  graham  may  be  sifted  with  coarse 
sieve. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD 

One  tablespoonful  drippings,  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
Yi.  cup  of  syrup  fill  with  molasses,  2  cups  or  little 
more  of  very  sour  milk,  cream  is  better  or  part  cream, 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  1  good  teaspoonful  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  very  little  warm  water,  1  cup  white  flour, 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  105 

1  cup  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  corn  meal,  2  eggs  (can 
be  made  without  eggs). 

Put  Httle  circles  of  paraffin  paper  in  bottom  of  bak- 
ing powder  cans,  grease  cans  well.  Beat  the  whole 
well  about  five  minutes.  It  should  be  about  the  con- 
sistency of  cake  batter  or  a  little  stiffer  if  made  with 
cream.  Fill  cans  about  ^  full,  place  in  steamer  and 
steam  three  or  four  hours.  The  longer  it  is  steamed 
the  better  the  flavor  and  easier  to  digest.  Serve  hot 
with  butter  or  syrup.  Makes  nice  sandwiches  cold. 
Very  nice  made  with  real  sour  buttermilk. 

Fuel  can  be  saved  by  making  plum  pudding  or 
veal  loaf  at  the  same  time  and  steam  all  in  baking 
powder  cans.  The  veal  loaf  should  not  be  put  on 
till  two  hours  before  serving  and  warmed  before  put- 
ting in  steamer.  If  milk  is  not  sour  enough  for  soda 
to  act  well,  add  either  a  little  cream  of  tartar  or  bak- 
ing powder  to  flour,  about  1  teaspoonful.  It  can  be 
made  with  all  syrup  instead  of  syrup  and  molasses 
mixed.    Less  soda  if  all  syrup  is  used. 

STEAMED  CORN  BREAD 

Chop  1  cup  suet  with  ^  cup  of  flour — pick  out  the 
suet  strings  while  chopping,  one  cup  molasses,  2  cups 
corn  meal,  1^  cups  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  soda 
(scant),  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

This  may  be  cooked  in  a  covered  steam  pudding 
dish,  baking  powder  cans  or  an  ordinary  deep  pan 
covered  with  an  inverted  pie  tin. 

Steam  three  hours  and  eat  with  syrup. 

BREAD     (Expensive)  Taught  by  most  of  the  Cook- 
ing Schools) 

Three  tablespoonfuls  (level)  lard,  3  tablespoonfuls 
(level)  sugar,  lj4  tablespoonfuls  (level)  salt,  3  cups 
milk  scalded  slightly,  3  cups  boiled  water,  3  penny 


106  THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 

yeast  cakes.  Break  yeast  cakes  in  ^  cup  luke  warm 
water.  Put  lard,  sugar  and  salt  in  bread  bowl  and  pour 
warm  liquid  over  it.  Put  in  flour  and  yeast  and  beat  ten 
minutes,  then  cut  in  flour  with  a  knife  and  knead 
twenty  minutes.  Let  rise  to  double  the  quantity. 
Knead  five  minutes  and  make  into  small  loaves.  Let 
rise  again  to  twice  its  size  and  bake  thirty  to  thirty- 
five  minutes  in  gas  oven.  Oven  must  be  hot  when 
bread  goes  in.  First  ten  minutes  high  temperature; 
second  ten  minutes  lower  gas  and  third  ten  minutes 
lower  again.  It  is  well  to  let  it  stand  ten  minutes  in 
oven  after  gas  is  turned  out. 

BROWN  BREAD.    (Baked) 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  y^  cup  molasses  or  syrup,  3 
cups  sour  milk,  2j^  cups  white  flour,  3  cups  graham 
flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  soda  (scant) 
2  eggs. 

Beat  hard  for  five  minutes  and  bake  for  one  hour  in 
a  good  steady  oven — not  too  hot.  When  the  bread 
shrinks  from  side  of  pan,  it  is  done.  Always  wise  to 
try  it  with  a  straw.  This  rule  makes  three  small 
loaves.  Nice  for  plain  sandwiches  or  cheese  and  nut 
sandwiches.  Improved  by  a  little  shortening,  about 
1^  tablespoonfuls,  unless  made  with  cream  or  rich 
buttermilk.  Use  a  little  cream  of  tartar  or  baking 
powder  if  milk  is  not  sour  enough.  The  graham  may 
be  sifted  through  coarse  sieve  if  desired. 

ANISE  BREAD 

Four  eggs  beaten,  1^  cups  flour,  ^  cup  hot  water, 
lYi  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  anise 
seed,  Yi  teaspoonful  salt. 

Add  the  hot  water  last  of  all.    Bake  in  a  loaf  tin. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  107 

BUNS 

Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough  and  work  or  pull 
through  it  a  little  butter  and  sugar.  Roll  with  the 
rolling  pin  as  for  pie  crust;  spread  with  butter  and 
sugar  and  then  roll  up  like  rolled  jelly  cake.  Slice  off 
with  a  knife  and  place  on  ends  in  dripping  pan  leav- 
ing room  for  them  to  rise.  Let  rise  to  twice  their  size 
and  bake  from  twenty  minutes  to  a  half  hour. 

The  plain  buns  are  simply  cut  with  biscuit  cutter 
and  let  rise. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

Pull  or  work  a  little  butter  and  sugar  through  some 
bread  dough.  Roll  out  with  rolling  pin.  Butter  the 
top,  cut  with  a  baking  powder  can  and  fold  one-half 
upon  the  other  like  half  cookies  doubled. 

If  no  bread  is  to  be  baked  they  can  be  made  rich 
enough  when  set.  Any  good  bread  recipe  made  a  lit- 
tle richer  and  sweeter  will  make  these. 

RAISED  BISCUITS 

If  fresh  bread  is  wanted  the  same  day  it  is  baked, 
biscuits  can  be  molded  out  of  the  same  dough  with- 
out any  change.  Small  or  large  ones  as  desired.  Much 
nicer  if  shortening  and  sugar  are  added,  but  lots  more 
work  and  more  expensive. 

POP  OVERS 

Beat  2  eggs  without  separating,  1  coffee  cup  milk,  1 
coffee  cup  flour,  i^  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  and  bake  in  hot  greased  gem  pans.  Iron  gem 
pans  are  the  best.  Bake  in  hot  oven  thirty-five  min- 
utes. One  egg  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
may  be  used. 


108  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

NEW  ENGLAND  POP  OVERS 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  2  eggs  separately;  add  the 
yolks  to  2  cups  of  sweet  milk  and  stir  in  this  2  cups 
of  flour,  sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
and  one  of  salt.  Add  the  whites  and  beat  briskly, 
pour  into  hot  greased  muffin  pans,  not  more  than  half 
full.     Bake  and  serve  at  once. 

BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 
One  egg,  1  teaspoonful  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  2  teacups 
blueberries,  dredged  with  flour,  2  cups  flour,  ^  cup 
sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.    Mix  well  and 
bake  about  half  hour. 

BLUEBERRY  PANCAKES 

The  same  as  above  only  less  sugar  and  1  more  egg. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES 

Large  pancakes  spread  with  jelly  or  fine  hash,  may 
be  used  and  piled  about  seven  or  eight  high.  Cut  like 
layer  cake.  Must  be  kept  warm  while  baking;  on  the 
oblong  griddle,  three  could  be  made  at  a  time. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 
Two  cups  common  bran,  1  cup  flour,  1^  cups  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  (about  rounding),  %  cup 
butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  molasses ;  get  good  clean  bran 
from  feed  store,  sieve  with  coarsest  sieve.  Bake  in 
muffin  tins.  Bran  is  very  good  for  a  sluggish  system, 
a  teaspoonful  may  be  put  in  glass  of  cold  water  and 
drunk  one-half  to  one  hour  before  breakfast. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS 

One  cup  each  of  graham  and  white  flour  sifted  to- 
gether with  ^2  teaspoonful  salt  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  beat  1  egg 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  109 

and  stir  into  1^  cups  milk.     Stir  into  flour  with  ,3 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  or  oleomargarine. 

JOHNNIE  CAKE 

Two-third  cup  butter,  creamed  with  1  cup  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  2  cups  each  of  corn 
meal  and  white  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  of  soda 
and  2  of  cream  of  tartar.  Last  beat  in  3  beaten  whites. 
For  a  cheaper  recipe  see  the  following  one. 

Waffles,  Muffins  and  Corn  Bread,  may  all  be  made 
simply  with  this  foundation — 1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2 
of  sugar,  an  egg,  or  two  if  you  have  them,  2^  cups 
milk  and  2>4  cups  flour,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
shortening,  cold  or  melted.  Waffles  are  better  with 
more  eggs  and  better  if  eggs  are  plenty  enough  to 
raise  them  instead  of  soda  or  baking  powder. 

Waffles  and  mufflns  need  to  be  a  little  stififer  than 
pancakes  or  cornbread. 

Use  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  (cream  of  tartar  or  bak- 
ing powder  if  milk  is  not  very  sour)  if  sour  milk,  or 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  sweet  milk. 

When  cold  shortening  is  used  either  mix  with  the 
sugar  or  work  with  the  flour  and  baking  powder  or 
soda  as  for  pie  crust,  working  well. 

Fritters  are  made  with  less  grease  and  fried  in  deep 
fat  (boiling).    All  of  these  arc  eaten  with  syrup. 

In  a  pinch,  water  may  be  used  for  any  of  these  in- 
stead of  milk,  but  it  does  not  make  them  tender. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

Syrup  makes  buckwheat  cakes  easier  to  digest.  If 
dry  yeast  is  used,  set  sometime  in  forenoon  day  be- 
fore, about  %  yeast  cake  ^et  as  for  bread,  in  a  large 
cup.  At  night  make  batter  of  about  the  same  con- 
sistency as  for  cake,  with  warm  water,  using  about 


110  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

}i  cup  of  the  buckwheat  to  a  person  (if  a  hearty  eater, 
use  1  cup),  and  a  warmed  earthenware  dish  or  bowl; 
(never  use  cheap  tin).  For  four  to  six  persons,  use 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Beat  all  together  and  let  rise 
over  night,  covering  warm  both  underneath  and  all 
over  as  one  would  make  a  baby  snug  in  bed.  It  is 
well  to  make  an  all-over  thick  cozy  for  it.  In  the 
morning,  add  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  ^^  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  {% 
cup),  and  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  good  molasses  or  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  buttermilk  or  milk  (any  kind)  a  cup 
wouldn't  be  any  too  much. 

Beat  lightly  and  well.  Bake  brown  on  a  moderately 
hot  griddle  or  heavy  frying  pan.  Cooking  too  fast 
and  browning  outside  too  quick,  leaves  the  center  in- 
digestible. Soapstone  griddle  is  best  of  all.  It  takes 
a  long  time  to  heat  but  makes  up  for  the  trouble  many 
times  over. 

The  above  method  never  fails  unless  yeast  is  no 
good.  They  must  not  be  kept  too  warm  or  too  cold. 
Temperature  has  much  to  do  with  their  success.  Some 
take  out  a  cup  of  the  batter  and  put  in  cool  place,  be- 
fore adding  the  ingredients  in  the  morning,  and  use 
this  for  yeast  the  next  night,  and  are  very  successful 
in  keeping  it  up  all  winter.  But  when  cakes  are  not 
made  every  morning,  as  they  should  not  be,  once  or 
twice  is  sufficient  to  use  this  batter  for  yeast. 

FRIED  MUSH 

Any  of  the  cooked  cereals,  cornmeal  especially,  well 
steamed  in  double  boiler  day  before  and  a  little 
thicker  than  for  mush  or  porridge,  set  in  granite  loaf 
tin,  dredged  with  corn  meal  and  covered  with  towel 
to  prevent  heavy  crust  on  top.  A  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
.added  while  cooking  or  a  little  sweet  milk  will  make 
them     brown     quicker    when    fried    without    being 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  111 

breaded.  Use  sufficient  grease,  keep  very  hot,  lower 
gas  occasionally  to  keep  from  burning  and  do  not 
turn  till  brown  crust  has  formed.  It  takes  about  five 
minutes  or  more  to  a  side.  If  grease  is  kept  hot,  they 
will  not  soak  it  up.  Oatmeal  is  a  little  softer  than 
cornmeal  and  sometimes  fries  better  taken  out  in 
spoonfuls  then  sliced.  Slice  thicker  than  cornmeal 
and  it  is  well  to  add  a  tablespoonful  or  so  of  cornmeal 
when  cooking  it.  This  is  a  good  method  to  use  up 
left  over  breakfast  foods. 

FRENCH  TOAST 

If  bread  is  very  stale,  slice  and  dip  in  water  for  a 
minute  or  less  one  at  a  time  before  dipping  in  the  egg, 
but  if  ordinary  stale  bread  say  2  or  3  days  old,  simply 
dip  in  the  beaten  egg  and  milk,  1  egg  to  a  cup  or  13^ 
cups  milk;  water  may  be  substituted  for  milk;  J4  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Fry  brown  on  griddle  or  heavy  frying 
pan.  Some  use  all  egg  without  milk  and  call  it  egg 
toast.  The  amount  of  eggs  and  milk  used  depends  on 
the  number  to  be  served.    Eat  with  syrup. 

SCOTCH  PANCAKES 

Any  pancakes  spread  with  jelly  or  other  ingredients 
and  rolled.     May  be  fastened  with  toothpick. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 

An  accompaniment  to  Roast  Beef. 

Six  rounding  tablespoonfuls  flour,  3  eggs  well 
beaten,  2  cups  milk,  j4  teaspoonful  salt.  Blend  flour 
and  salt  with  some  of  the  milk,  add  the  rest,  making 
about  as  thick  as  soft  custard.  Put  in  shallow  but- 
tered pan.  Bake  slowly  three-fourths  hour,  basting 
towards  the  last  with  the  roast  beef  gravy,  if  one  has 
a  wire  stand,  the  roast  may  be  set  up  over  it  for  the 


112  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

last  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to  drip  on  pudding.  Cut 
in  squares  around  roast  on  platter.  It  may  be  baked 
in  dripping  pan  after  roast  and  part  of  gravy  are  re- 
moved. 

MILK  TOAST.     (Individual) 

Toast  one  or  two  thin  slices  of  bread  according  to 
the  rules  for  making  good  toast.  While  still  hot 
spread  over  them  a  little  fresh  butter  and  sprinkle  over 
them  a  little  salt.  Cut  each  slice  in  quarters  or  tri- 
angles. Place  in  a  warm  bowl  and  pour  over  them  a 
cupful  of  scalded  milk — that  heated  in  a  double  boiler 
is  the  best.  Serve  at  once.  Excellent  for  invalids  or 
anyone  with  weak  stomach.  For  breakfast  or  supper 
serve  individually. 

DIPPED  TOAST 

Prepare  as  for  milk  toast.  Dip  the  buttered  slices 
in  slightly  salted  boiling  water  or  moisten  with  2  or 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  water.  Serve  at  once — with 
pcaclied  egg  if  desired.    Excellent  for  invalids. 

CREAMED  TOAST 

See  Creamed  Dried  Beef  on  toast.  It  is  made  the 
same  except  that  the  plain  white  sauce  is  poured  over 
the  platter  of  toast  without  the  beef.  Drawn  butter 
sauce  may  also  be  served  over  platter  of  toast;  it  is 
sometimes  called  buttered  toast. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  113 


SANDWICHES  (including  Lenten) 


If  cold  lunches  are  to  be  put  up  sandwiches  require 
very  careful  attention,  making  them  as  dainty  as  pos- 
sible and  wrapping  well  in  paraffin  paper  to  keep 
them  fresh.  A  lettuce  left  on  top  of  lunch  helps  to 
keep  it  fresh,  also,  or  celery  leaves;  they  impart  a  lit- 
tle of  their  freshness  to  the  dinner  basket  or  pail. 
Paper  napkins  are  neat  and  fresh,  as  well  as  saving 
laundry  labor. 

The  success  of  sandwiches  depends  largely  upon  the 
bread.  The  bread  should  be  fresh  and  cut  thin.  One 
day  old  is  best  and  should  never  be  more  than  three 
days  old.  A  lettuce  leaf  on  bread  under  mince  meat 
will  prevent  juices  from  tainting  or  soaking  bread  as 
mustard  or  catsup.  Have  everything  cold  before  pack- 
ing a  cold  lunch. 

Dainty  shaped  sandwiches  may  be  cut  with  baking 
powder  can  or  fancy  cooky  cutters. 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES 

Cut  fresh  cucumbers  very  fine.  Mix  with  salad 
dressing  and  spread  thickly  on  buttered  bread  cut 
thin.  If  to  stand  or  to  be  carried  in  a  cold  lunch,  pro- 
tect bread  with  lettuce  leaves. 

CREAM  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Mix  peanut  butter  and  cream  cheese.  Moisten  with 
sweet  cream  and  spread. 

Minced  sandwiches  can  be  made  from  mincing  left- 
over boiled  or  baked  fish,  meat,  fruits  and  eggs. 

Fish  should  be  carefully  prepared  and  seasoned; 


114  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

when  making  the  sandwich,  sprinkle  with  water-cress 
minced  or  chopped  fine.  If  not  a  lenten  sandwich, 
mix  with  hard  boiled  egg. 

Sardines  may  be  cleared  of  bone  and  skin  and  rubbed 
smooth  with  lemon  juice. 

Left-over  boiled  ham,  using  about  one-third  fat,  is 
very  nice  minced  and  flavored.  Use  mustard  only 
occasionally  and  catsup  also,  unless  for  out-door  work- 
ers.   Too  much  of  it  irritates  the  stomach. 

Cold  roasts  or  fresh  cold  steak  can  be  minced.  It 
may  also  be  mixed  with  a  little  cold  ham  or  corn  beef. 

A  little  paprika  is  nice  in  the  minced  sandwiches. 

If  one  has  not  a  food  grinder,  use  a  chopping  knife 
for  mincing. 

Hard  boiled  eggs  can  be  rubbed  smooth  and  sea- 
soned for  sandwiches  or  sliced  cold  and  seasoned.  May- 
onnaise is  a  nice  seasoning  for  them. 

Fried  bacon,  nice  and  crisp  and  drained  on  paper 
in  oven,  makes  dainty  sandwiches.  Salt  pork  sliced 
very  thin  may  be  used  the  same.  A  small  bottle  of  cat- 
sup or  little  white  jar  (as  druggists  use  for  salve)  of 
mustard  or  chili  sauce. 

Home-made  mustard  may  be  made  of  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar,  and  two  or  three  of  mustard 
rubbed  smooth  with  vinegar,  or  a  little  flour  may  be 
added  and  set  bowl  into  boiling  water  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Red  pepper  or  paprika  may  be  used  if  de- 
sired. 

JELLY  SANDWICHES 

One  cup  of  jelly  mixed  with  ^  cup  of  nut  meats 
(any  kind)  chopped  fine.  Quince  jelly  is  delicious  but 
rather  expensive. 

FRUIT  SANDWICHES 

Equal  quantities  of  figs,  raisins  and  blanched  al- 
monds cut  fine.    Moisten  with  orange  juice  so  that  it 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  115 

will  spread  easily.  The  fig  filling  for  cake,  flavored 
with  lemon  juice  and  nuts,  is  very  good. 

Moisten  and  stone  dates  and  mash  with  nuts  and 
lemon  juice. 

Cheese  sandwiches  are  good  with  a  little  fruit,  es- 
pecially strawberries. 

Those  carrying  a  cold  lunch  like  a  variety  of  sand- 
wiches occasionally — say,  one  fruit,  one  meat,  one  fish 
— and  it  often  happens  that  one  has  just  enough  ma- 
terial on  hand  to  put  up  this  kind  of  a  lunch.  It  is  al- 
ways well,  especially  with  children's  lunches,  to  put 
in  a  little  raw  fruit,  a  banana  one  day,  an  orange  an- 
other, an  apple,  a  bunch  of  grapes,  etc.  Children  should 
have  not  more  than  one  meat  sandwich.  Fruit  and 
nuts  are  better. 

Dainty  sandwiches  of  any  of  the  above  may  be  made 
from  single  slices  of  fresh  bread,  rolled  and  fastened 
with  a  toothpick.  Make  pleasant  little  surprises  of 
any  kind  to  stimulate  the  appetite,  especially  of  indoor 
hard  workers.  It  means  so  much  to  keep  up  their 
strength.  One  can  study  materials  on  hand  and  plan 
new  varieties. 

PEANUT  BUTTER 

Five  cents  worth  makes  about  eight  sandwiches. 
Equal  to  the  best  brands  on  the  market.  Buy  the  pea- 
nuts roasted.  Shell  and  skin  (blanch).  They  are 
roasted  enough  if  the  skins  are  red.  If  not,  roast  in 
shallow  baking  pans  until  skins  are  dark  red.  When 
cool,  the  peanuts  should  be  rubbed  about  in  pans  to 
loosen  skins.  Fan  the  skins  all  out.  Put  in  a  small 
bag  made  of  strong  flour  sacking  and  beat  with  a  mal- 
let upon  a  smooth  flat  stone.  The  peanuts  have  enough 
oil  to  make  them  cohere  after  eight  minutes  pounding. 
A  little  salt  helps  to  bring  out  the  oil;  then  salt  to 
taste.     A  little  olive  oil  or  butter  may  be  added  to 


116  THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK   BOOK 

make  them  spread  easily.  They  can  be  ground  in  a 
meat  chopper  and  butter  added,  but  grinding  will  not 
bring  out  the  oil. 

DAINTY  SANDWICHES 

Two  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  dozen  walnut  kernels,  1 
dozen  ripe  olives,  ^  dozen  stuffed  olives. 

Chop  walnut  kernels  fine ;  then  chop  eggs  and  olives 
together,  adding  sufficient  mayonnaise  to  make  the 
right  consistency  to  spread.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
or  paprika,  also  a  little  prepared  sweet  mustard.  After 
having  buttered  the  bread,  spread  a  thin  coating  of 
sweet  mustard,  and  last,  spread  on  a  generous  portion 
of  the  above  mixture.  Serve  with  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf 
if  desired. 

NUT  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES  (Very  Nice) 

Mix  one-half  cup  of  chopped  or  pounded  nuts  with 
one  roll  of  Neufchattel  cheese.  Can  be  gotten  at  any 
good  grocery  or  an  equal  to  it.  Spread  on  slices  of 
rye  bread,  whole  wheat,  graham,  Boston  brown,  or 
even  white  bread  is  nice.  Almonds,  pecans,  butternuts 
or  English  walnuts  may  be  used. 

Sandwiches  must  be  made  thin ;  cut  bread  very  thin. 

Lettuce  sandwiches  are  very  nice  made  with  three 
leaves  of  lettuce  and  two  layers  of  mayonnaise;  that 
is :  butter  one  slice  of  bread,  lay  on  lettuce  leaf,  then 
mayonnaise,  then  lettuce  leaf,  then  mayonnaise  again, 
then  annother  lettuce  leaf,  and  last  the  other  slice  of 
bread.  This  gives  a  good  substantial  sandwich,  and 
the  lettuce  keeps  the  mayonnaise  from  soaking  the 
bread. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  117 


DESSERTS 


Desserts,  as  far  as  possible,  like  cookery  for  the 
sick,  should  be  made  pleasant  surprises,  except  when 
teaching  the  children  how  to  make  them,  and  these 
they  will  do  and  learn  quickly,  not  speaking  of  the 
pleasure  if  affords  them. 

They  can  make  the  simple  desserts  themselves  while 
their  watching  the  making  of  pies,  cakes,  cookies  and 
so  on  is  a  very  interesting  study  to  them  and  very 
useful  to  both  boys  and  girls.  A  little  later  on  they 
can  make  use  of  the  principles  they  have  learned  in 
their  school  work  and  in  many  of  the  professions  or 
trades  they  may  take  up. 

JUNKET 

One  of  the  easiest  desserts  and  one  of  the  best  for 
the  weakest  stomach,  is  junket.  The  recipe  is  on  pack- 
age of  tablets,  which  can  be  bought  at  most  grocers 
and  druggists  for  ten  cents.  One  package  will  last  a 
long  time.  A  neat  little  cook  book  comes  with  them, 
with  principles  and  recipes  for  many  desserts  made 
with  junket.  The  writer  knows  of  only  one  kind  of 
junket — that  put  up  by  the  Chr.  Hansen  Laboratory, 
Little  Falls,  N.  Y.  It  is  an  excellent  lunch  for  between 
meals  for  those  who  require  a  lunch,  and  for  convales- 
cents.   It  must  be  served  ice  cold  or  nearly  so. 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT  PUDDING 

An  excellent  recipe  may  be  found  on  the  package  of 
Cream  of  Wheat.  Eggs  may  be  left  out  and  twice  as 
much  Cream  of  Wheat  used.     About  two  or  three 


118  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  is  sufficient;  may  be  eaten 
with  plain  milk  or  a  simple  sauce,  or  alone.  Half  of 
the  recipe  will  make  neat  dishes  of  dessert  for  four. 

INDIAN  PUDDING 

See  recipe  for  steamed  corn  bread.  For  a  very  small 
family,  half  the  recipe  will  do.  Use  just  a  little  less 
flour,  as  it  does  not  require  slicing  as  even  as  bread. 
Serve  with  any  of  the  simple  sweet  sauces,  or  it  may 
be  made  like  cream  of  wheat  pudding,  which  is  health- 
ier and  easier  to  digest. 

RICE  CREAM 

One  quart  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one- 
half  cup  well  washed  rice,  flavor  to  taste. 

Bake  a  long  time  slowly,  about  one  and  a  half  hours, 
stirring  occasionally,  except  towards  the  last,  let  it 
brown.     Cover  at  first. 

RICE  PUDDING 

May  be  made  with  cold  boiled  *rice,  say  about  two 
cups,  which  has  been  saved  in  a  covered  dish  or  jelly 
glasses  to  keep  it  soft.  Break  up  gently  with  a  spoon, 
add  about  two  cups  milk,  one  or  two  eggs,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  with  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  add 
one  cup  of  raisins,  if  desired.  Bake  till  brown.  Eat 
with  cream  or  any  simple  sauce.  One  cup  of  hot  water 
may  be  used  instead  of  all  milk.  Soften  the  rice  in  it. 
Hot  boiled  rice  is  excellent  for  this ;  one-fourth  cup  of 
rice  will  make  one  cup  boiled  rice. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

One  Method : — Bake  the  one  egg  cake  in  two  layers 
and  put  sweetened  crushed  strawberries  between  and 
on  top. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  119 

Another: — Bake  the  one  egg  cake  In  muffin  tins  and 
serve  each  cake  in  individual  dishes  covered  with  the 
crushed  strawberries. 

Old  and  probably  the  best  method: — Make  a  nice 
tender  biscuit  dough,  using  plenty  of  shortening;  (see 
recipe  for  biscuits)  ;  bake  in  two  layers  and  split.  It 
is  easier  to  split  if  when  rolled  out  as  thin  as  can  be 
handled  without  breaking,  it  is  buttered  or  dredged 
with  flour,  then  folded  once ;  cut  to  fit  two  square  tins. 
This  makes  four  layers  on  a  platter. 

This  last  can  be  cut  with  baking  powder  can  and 
served  individually. 

Strawberries  are  easily  crushed  with  chopping  knife 
or  baking  powder  can  used  as  a  chopper. 

Any  fruit,  some  raw  and  others  cooked,  can  be  made 
into  shortcake  or  pudding.  Oranges  cut  fine  make  a 
delicious  shortcake.  Canned  raspberries  or  blackber- 
ries are  excellent.  Apples  are  nice  cut  into  a  shallow 
square  tin  lined  with  biscuit  dough  and  just  folded 
over,  leaving  a  slit  in  the  center.  Some  children  call 
this  "Apple  Jack."  Bake  a  rich  brown  and  serve  with 
cream. 

Roly  Poly  pudding  is  made  on  this  last  principle, 
only  the  dough  is  spread  with  the  apples  or  fruit,  rolled 
and  steamed  three  or  four  hours.  Apple  Dumplings 
are  the  same  except  the  dough  is  cut  into  squares,  ap- 
ples put  in  the  center,  folded  up  and  steamed  three 
hours. 

The  Roly  Poly  could  be  baked  in  double  roaster,  two 
or  three  hours  with  a  little  water. 

EMERGENCY  PIE  AND  ENGLISH  PUDDING 

Grease  and  almost  fill  a  porcelain  or  granite  pie  plate 
with  apples,  flavor  and  put  over  the  top,  a  pie  crust'' 
or  biscuit  dough.    Bake  a  nice  brown,  serve  individu- 


120  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK   BOOK 

ally,  upside  down,  with  a  simple  sauce  or  sweetened 
milk  or  cream. 

English  pudding  is  made  the  same  only  use  deeper 
dish  and  bake  longer  and  slower  or  crust  will  burn  and 
apples  won't  be  done. 

BIRD'S  NEST 

Same  principle  as  above;  apples  or  peaches  may  be 
used;  just  warm  in  the  oven,  don't  sweeten.  Cover 
with  one  egg  cake  batter  and  bake  real  well.  Serve 
upside  down  with  sauce  or  cream.  Raised  dough  can 
be  made  rich  and  rolled  out,  placed  the  same  as  Emer- 
gency Pie ;  let  rise  and  bake. 

BROWN  BETTY 

For  an  invalid,  toast  the  bread,  or  use  zweibach.  The 
old  rule  is  two  cups  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  four,  cups 
chopped  apples  and  one  cup  sugar;  arrange  in  layers 
alternately,  spreading  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  be- 
tween ;  first  and  last  layer  is  bread,  but  twice  bread  in- 
stead of  apples  may  be  used;  add  3  cups  of  hot  water. 
Butter  may  be  spread  on  top  or  not  or  on  each  slice 
before  cutting  into  crumbs.  Bake  one  hour  or  little 
more,  covered.  Uncover  at  the  last  to  brown  on  top. 
Simply  break  the  bread  in  little  pieces  and  slice  ap- 
ples between  the  layers. 

Other  fruit  betties  can  be  made  as  well  as  apple. 
Flavor  with  raisins  or  currants  if  desired. 

SPICED  PUDDING     (Plum  Pudding) 

This  can  be  made  the  foundation  of  a  suet  pudding. 
One  cup  chopped  suet  dredged  with  flour  while  chop- 
ping, one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk  (half  cream) 
or  all  sour  cream,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoonful  each 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  121 

of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  one  cup  seeded  rai- 
sins or  currants.  If  raisins,  break  in  two,  if  time  per- 
mits. One  teaspoonful  not  quite  rounding  of  baking 
soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  stiff  cake  batter. 
Steam  three  hours,  longer  does  not  harm  it,  in  baking 
powder  cans.  If  the  cream  is  not  at  hand,  use  one  cup 
milk  and  a  good  tablespoonful  of  shortening.  A  little 
less  cloves  and  more  cinnamon  may  be  used  and  a 
tablespoonful  or  so  of  molasses,  if  desired.  Serve  with 
sauce. 

This  can  be  steamed  with  veal  loaf,  only  must  be 
put  over  one  hour  sooner  and  not  disturbed.  Handle 
carefully  when  putting  in  veal  loaf,  which  has  been 
warmed.    Brown  bread  can  also  be  made  v/ith  it. 

This  pudding  is  excellent  baked  in  -3.  shallow  loaf 
tin,  slowly  in  the  oven  for  an  hour  or  little  more  and 
serve  as  cottage  pudding.  It  should  be  a  very  dark 
brown,  but  not  burned. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 

Take  five  tablespoonfuls  out  of  a  quart  of  milk  and 
blend  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  (rounding). 
Put  the  rest  of  milk  on  in  double  boiler ;  when  about 
ready  to  scald,  stir  in  blended  flour  until  it  thickens, 
let  steam  about  five  minutes,  then  add  three  eggs 
mixed  with  half  cup  of  sugar.  Set  away  to  cool.  Eat 
without  sauce  or  with  a  little  jelly.  Floating  Island 
is  the  same,  only  the  yolks  are  added  to  the  custard 
and  the  whites  are  dropped  in  spoonfuls  or  "little 
islands"  on  the  custard  while  hot  in  a  pudding  or  serv- 
ing dish  and  set  in  the  oven  for  a  minute. 

A  SNOW  BALL 

for  a  patient  is  made  almost  the  same,  only  no  flour. 
Heat  cup  of  milk  in  double  boiler  and  beat  the  white. 
Put  white  on  top  of  hot  milk,  cover  and  let  steam 


122  THE   HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

about  two  minutes,  remove  white  carefully,  put  in 
yolk  with  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  remove  from  fire, 
put  on  a  soup  plate  and  put  white  in  center.  Let  get 
real  cold  and  surprise  the  patient.  It  is  sort  of  a 
cooked  egg  nog.    Nice  for  a  child. 

BAKED  CUSTARD 

One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  beaten  separately  if  de- 
sired, one-half  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinna- 
mon, suggestion  of  salt.  Bake  in  buttered  cups  or 
pudding  dish.  If  cups  are  thin,  set  them  in  pan  of 
hot  water.    Remove  as  soon  as  set  or  it  will  curdle. 

Rice  custard  pudding  has  a  cup  or  more  of  soft 
boiled  rice  added  and  less  eggs.    Raisins  may  be  used. 

BREAD  PUDDING 
(For  Four) 

Soak  bread,  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  if  very  stale, 
otherwise  three  to  five  minutes,  enough  to  almost 
fill  a  quart  pan.  Squeeze  lightly  and  sort  of  feather 
it  in  a  baking  dish,  at  the  same  time  putting  in  a  few 
currants  and  a  little  cinnamon  or  none,  as  desired. 
Pour  over  all,  one  egg  or  two  beaten  with  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  two 
cups  milk  (or  one  and  a  half  cups  milk,  substituting 
water  for  other  half  cup).  Press  down  a  little  with 
fork  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Excellent 
with  cinnamon  sauce.  Nice  cold,  wrapped  in  piece  of 
parafifin  paper  for  cold  lunch.  This  may  be  made 
without  soaking  if  about  a  cup  of  water  is  added  to 
the  milk  and  the  bread  broken  a  little. 

BOILED  RICE 

The  secret  of  boiled  rice  is  to  have  the  grains  large 
and  flaky  and  well  cooked.  Wash  well,  boil  in  slightly 
salted  boiling  water  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  place 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  123 

in  the  inside  part  of  double  boiler,  (drain  or  not),  add 
more  boiling  water,  a  little  hot  milk  and  one  or  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar.  Set  into  the  outside  boiler  and 
steam  one  hour  with  the  cozy;  the  last  ten  minutes 
leave  open  in  the  oven.  Do  not  stir,  as  you  break  the 
grain.  A  piece  of  vanilla  bean  flavors  excellently.  If 
for  dessert,  eat  with  hard  sauce.  Allow  54  cup  raw 
rice  for  1  cup  cooked  rice. 

RASPBERRY  WHIP 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  with  a  dash  of  salt  enough  . 
to  break  it  a  little,  in  a  bowl,  then  add  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar  and  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  rasp- 
berries, (a  little  less  of  the  canned  or  more  of  the 
fresh).  Beat  all  with  a  wire  whisk  till  it  will  hold 
together  and  shape  well.  Pile  on  a  serving  dish  and 
surround  with  lady  fingers  or  strips  of  cake  in  the 
shape  of  lady  fingers  or  dainty  cookies  will  do.  Serve 
with  boiled  custard  or  whipped  cream. 

PRUNE  WHIP    (Prune  Souffle) 

See  recipe  for  cooked  prunes.  If  the  large  prunes 
are  used,  take  out  about  twelve  or  fourteen  after  being 
thoroughly  simmered,  remove  stones  and  press  through 
colander  or  gravy  strainer  (puree  sieve).  Add  to  them 
the  whites  of  three  beaten  eggs  and  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  granulated  sugar  (powdered  or  confectioners' 
if  desired).  Bake  in  pudding  dish  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Serve  in  the  same  dish,  cold,  with  cream 
or  sauce. 

Apple  whip  can  be  made  the  same. 

Either  one  may  be  heated  in  double  boiler  if  room 
enough  for  rising,  instead  of  baked.  Apples  should  be 
cooked  with  skins  on.  Two  or  three  good  sized  apples 
will  make  dessert  for  six.  It  can  also  be  arranged  in 
layers  instead  of  mixed. 


124  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

Take  a  little  piece  of  bread  dough  on  baking  day 
and  work  or  pull  through  it  a  little  shortening  and 
sugar.  Grease  bread  board  well  with  dripping  or  use 
plenty  of  flour  and  roll  as  thin  as  pie  crust,  nearly. 
Line  a  deep  dish  with  this  crust.  Half  fill  with  stewed 
prunes,  (pick  out  with  toothpick  so  as  to  get  but  little 
juice)  laid  in  lightly.  Fold  crust  toward  the  center. 
Set  in  warm  place  till  very  light.  Cover  with  an  in- 
verted granite  cake  or  pie  tin  that  will  fit  the  dish, 
and  steam  three  hours  or  more.  Serve  warm  with  the 
prune  juice  sweetened  a  little  or  a  caramel  sauce.  (See 
cakes).  It  is  nice  with  cinnamon  or  lemon  sauce.  De- 
licious, only  crust  is  a  little  tough. 

CREAM  PUFFS 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  cup 
flour,  pinch  of  salt,  put  butter  and  water  on  stove  in 
sauce  pan.  Stir  in  a  cup  of  flour  and  pinch  of  salt 
while  boiling,  let  cool.  A  novice  will  doubt  its  good- 
ness from  the  appearance.  When  almost  cold,  stir  in 
three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  not  beaten.  Bake  in  hot 
muffin  tins,  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  If  baked  early 
in  the  morning  they  are  not  so  tender  as"  when  baked 
about  an  hour  before  dinner  or  before  using. 

When  ready  to  serve,  open  and  fill ;  put  together 
again. 

Filling — Whipped  cream,  cold  boiled  custard  or  fill- 
ing for  bride's  cake  (see  cakes).  An  excellent  dessert 
for  both  family  and  a  convalescent. 

PRUNES 

One  pound  of  prunes.  Put  in  cold  water  and  set 
on  back  of  stove  till  well  warriied,  then  wash  thor- 
oughly (this  should  be  done  night  before  if  soaked  all 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  125 

night,  as  they  should  be  cooked  in  the  same  water  as 
soaked  in),  and  put  them  in  plenty  of  hot  water  with 
about  three  slices  of  lemon  and  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar;  let  simmer  on  back  of  stove  about 
three  or  four  hours,  with  cozies.  (Two  hours  will 
do  if  soaked  all  night),  till  juice  is  a  nice  syrup.  A 
little  of  the  skin  may  be  left  on  the  lemon,  to  get  the 
flavor  of  the  oil  of  lemon. 

More  sugar  is  required  for  a  cheap  grade  of  prunes. 
Keep  covered  till  cold  so  that  prunes  will  puff. 

Nice  for  fruit  for  breakfast,  dessert  for  dinner  with 
cookies,  or  sauce  for  supper.    Excellent. 

Follow  same  rule  for  all  dried  fruits,  which  can  be 
used  in  several  ways. 

BAKED  APPLES 

If  good  apples,  simply  core  and  bake.  Poor  apples 
may  be  halved  or  quartered  and  all  badness  removed. 
Do  not  peel.  Bake  in  rather  quick  oven  in  a  covered 
pudding  dish,  making  sort  of  a  double  roaster.  If  de- 
sired, baste  with  little  sweetened  water.  Excellent 
served  cold  for  breakfast  with  cream,  or  very  nice 
warm  for  dessert  with  any  nice  pudding  sauce.  One 
should  have  them  as  often  as  possible  while  in  season. 


126  THE  HOI^IE-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 


SWEET  SAUCES 


MAPLE  SAUCE 

Half  a  brick  of  maple  sugar,  broken  a  little,  cover 
with  hot  water.  Boil  till  a  nice  (rather  thick)  syrup. 
When  needed,  just  heat  and  add  cup  of  English  wal- 
nuts, broken.  Serve  hot  on  ice  cream.  Serve  quickly. 
Delicious. 

CINNAMON  WATER 

One  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  one  pint  boiling  water 
(two  cups)  ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  strain,  bottle  and 
use  for  mixtures  requiring  cinnamon  water. 

CINNAMON  SAUCE 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  flour  with  cup  of  sugar 
and  two-thirds  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  (ground). 
Thoroughly  mix  dry.  Add  two  cups  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  till  thick.  Set  on  back  of  stove  for  four  to 
five  minutes.  Add  butter  and  pinch  of  salt  when 
done,  if  desired. 

Nutmeg  sauce  can  be  made  the  same  way,  substitut- 
ing ys  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  for  cinnamon.  Very 
nice  made  in  double  boiler  and  let  steam  ten  minutes 
after  thickening. 

BRANDY  SAUCE 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  same  as  for  cinnamon  sauce, 
and  boiling  water  also.  When  done,  add  piece  of  but- 
ter and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy.  A  pinch  of 
salt  with  all  these  sauces  improves  taste. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  127 

WINE  SAUCE 

Same  as  brandy,  only  flavor  with  one-third  to  one- 
half  cup  of  wine  or  more. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

Same  as  above,  only  add  sliced  lemon,  leaving  the 
rind  on  two  or  three  slices  to  get  the  flavor  of  lemon 
oil.  Serve  one  piece  on  each  dish  of  pudding.  Nice 
served  on  cottage  pudding  baked  in  muffin  tins.  Each 
person  has  an  individual  pudding  then. 

SYRUP 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water.  Stir  until 
sugar  dissolves.  After  dissolving,  cook  slowly  eight 
to  ten  minutes,  then  bottle  and  keep.  This  may  be 
used  to  sweeten  ice  cream.  Nice  for  pancakes,  etc., 
but  use  two  or  three  times  as  much  water. 

LEMON  SAUCE  OR  FILLING 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  three-fourths  of 
a  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water  for  filling  or  one 
for  sauce,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  or  two  of 
flour  (half  this  much  for  the  sauce).  Blend  flour  or 
corn  starch  with  a  little  water.  Boil  all  together  and 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  one  beaten  egg 
with  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  of  the  same  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 

Use  milk,  or  half  milk  and  water,  instead  of  water, 
the  same  as  for  the  cinnamon  sauce,  and  a  little  more 
sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  scraped  or  grated 
chocolate.  Stir  till  smooth  or  use  milk  and  chocolate 
in  above  recipe  instead  of  lemon  and  water. 


128  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

HARD  SAUCE 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  to  taste 
(one  to  two  teaspoonfuls).  Cream  butter  and  sugar  as 
for  cake.    Very  nice  with  boiled  rice. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE  FOR  PUDDINGS 

One  pint  of  milk  (two  cups)  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  well. 
Make  in  double  boiler  and  remove  soon  as  thick  or  it 
will  curdle.    When  cold,  add  vanilla. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE 

See  caramel  filling  for  cake.  Make  a  little  thinner 
than  for  cake. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  129 


PIES 


Pies  we  will  have  in  spite  of  their  being  condemned ; 
but  if  used  judiciously  they  are  not  so  harmful.  People 
working  out  of  doors  can  use  them  once  a  week  and 
in  very  cold  weather  twice  a  week,  but  in  hot  weather 
as  little  as  possible.  Long,  moderate  baking  will  aid 
the  digestion  of  them.  In  making  pastry,  the  starch 
granules  are  enveloped  in  the  fat  and  so  are  not  acted 
upon  by  the  saliva  in  the  mouth  or  in  the  stomach  (the 
fat  being  partly  digested  in  the  stomach)  and,  there- 
fore, not  digested  until  it  reaches  the  small  intestines. 
Hence,  the  use  of  too  much  pie  and  cake  causes  in- 
testinal indigestion,  the  tired  feeling  of  spring  being 
one  of  the  symptoms. 

Pastry  is  of  two  kinds,  plain  and  puff.  The  puff 
paste  is  made  by  simply  spreading  the  plain  crust  with 
shortening,  doubling  and  rolling  several  times.  Light- 
ness depends  on  amount  of  air  enclosed,  and  the  flaki- 
ness  depends  on  the  kind  of  shortening  used.  Lard 
makes  a  very  tender  crust;  unsalted  butter,  a  nice  fla- 
vored cotolene  and  cotosuet  are  cheap  and  wholesome 
if  manufactured  properly.  The  secret  of  good  pie  crust 
is  to  thoroughly  mix  shortening  with  flour  and  use  as 
little  water  as  posible.  It  is  easier  to  use  hands  than  a 
knife,  and  is  sanitary  if  hands  are  well  washed  and' 
then  rinsed  in  cold  water  to  close  pores,  then  dried. 

Nearly  all  fruit  pies  require  deep  tins.  A  cylinder 
of  writing  or  paraffin  paper  placed  in  the  center  of  top 
crust  will  prevent  running  over ;  or  run  a  strip  of  clean 
wet  white  cloth  around  the  outside. 


130  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

A  fork,  scissors,  or  little  fancy  pie  crimper  may  be 
used  for  crimping  edge, 

Set  pies  on  wire  rest  after  baking,  to  cool  quickly 
on  the  bottom  and  prevent  soaking. 

Lemon  pie  crust  is  very  nice  baked  on  the  outside 
of  the  pan  turned  upside  down.    Patties  the  same. 

PIE  CRUST  OR  EASILY  MADE  PASTRY 

For  a  one-crust  pie  use  a  good  cup  of  sifted  flour, 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  two-thirds  rounding 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add  here 
and  there,  lightly,  about  three  tablespoonfuls  water, 
stirring  from  outside  to  center,  making  pastry  stick 
together;  roll  out.  For  two  crusts  take  about  one  and 
one-half  times  the  ingredients. 

CREAM  PIE 

Two  cups  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  table- 
spoonful  corn  starch  and  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  3^  to 
^  teaspoonful  vanilla,  whipped  cream. 

Bake  crust  as  for  lemon  pie,  first.  Put  milk  in  dou- 
ble boiler.  When  near  boiling  point  add  flour  and 
corn  starch  blended.  Stir  till  thickens.  Sugar  may 
be  added  with  flour  or  when  about  to  take  off.  When 
nicely  done  (may  steam  with  cozy  on  15  to  30  min- 
utes) remove  from  stove,  add  vanilla  and  pour  in  pie 
crust  to  set.  When  ready  to  serve  put  whipped  cream 
over  the  top  or  a  tablespoonful  on  each  piece.  Ex- 
cellent. This  or  plain  custard  is  dehcious  over  sliced 
bananas.     Crust  baked  first. 

LEMON  PIE 

One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  hot  water,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoonfuls  corn  starch  or  4  of  flour,  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon,  butter  size  of  egg,  just  a  wee 
bit  of  salt. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  131 

Have  crust  baked,  stick  with  a  fork  in  five  or  six 
places  before  putting  in  oven,  or  bake  on  outside  of  tin 
inverted.  Wet  corn  starch  in  a  Httle  water,  then  mix 
in  yolks.  Have  water  hot,  stir  in  corn  starch,  also 
lemon.  Stir  until  thick,  add  sugar  and  butter.  Fill 
crust  and  put  beaten  whites  on  top.  Add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  to  each  white  of  egg  and  brown  a  little 
in  the  oven.    Very  good. 

It  is  better  if  the  corn  starch  is  well  cooked  first, 
about  one-half  hour,  and  yolks  added  after  removing 
from  fire;  this  is  more  scientific  and  easier  digested. 
Also,  do  not  add  the  butter  until  just  ready  to  pour  in 
the  pie  crust. 


ONE  EGG  LEMON  PIE  (Very  cheap  and  easy) 

This  is  very  little  work  if  one  happens  to  have  some 
unbaked  pie  crust  left  over.  Roll  out,  fit  in  tin,  stick 
with  fork  and  bake  a  delicate  brown.  It  may  be  put 
on  outside  of  tin. 

Just  a  little  over  one-half  of  a  breakfast  cup  of  sugar. 
Juice  of  one-half  lemon  (}i  will  do),  1  cup  hot  water 
(or  l}i  cups),  iy2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
suggestion  of  salt. 

Mix  the  egg  and  one-fourth  of  the  sugar  in  a  cup 
or  small  bowl,  add  the  lemon  juice  to  this  before  put- 
ting it  with  the  cooked  part.  Mix  the  rest  of  the  sugar 
and  the  flour  thoroughly  (dry  as  for  sauce)  in  a  little 
pint  double  boiler — or  a  little  sauce  pan  may  be  set 
into  a  larger  one  with  two  or  three  little  pebbles  under 
it  to  keep  the  water  from  being  forced  out  on  the 
stove,  also  prevents  burning.  Add  to  this  the  hot 
water  in  which  the  skin  of  the  lemon  has  been  cooked 
a  few  minutes  for  flavor.  Stir  until  thick  and  then 
set  in  to  steam  for  about  fifteen  minutes  to  cook  the 


132  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

flour  better.  Add  egg  and  lemon  juice  and  let  stand 
about  half  a  minute  longer,  then  pour  into  the  baked 
crust  and  set  away  to  cool.  The  white  of  an  egg  may 
be  separated  and  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
added  and  decorate  the  top  like  floating  island  or  in 
circles  of  white,  and  brown  a  minute  or  two  in  the 
oven.  Egg  must  be  strictly  fresh  to  do  this.  Put  on 
while  filling  is  hot  so  it  will  cook  from  the  bottom. 

APPLE  PIE 

For  very  sour  apples  use  a  breakfast  cup  of  sugar 
to  a  small  pie  or  almost  1^^  cups  to  a  large  pie.  Put 
half  the  sugar  on  the  bottom  crust.  If  apples  are  cut 
fine,  simply  pour  them  in;  if  cored  and  cut  in  rather 
fine  sections,  lay  in  on  sugar  in  nice  order  about  two 
layers  deep.  Shake  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  or 
drop  some  lemon  juice  here  and  there.  Put  the  other 
half  of  the  sugar  over  the  apples  and  after  wetting  the 
edge  of  bottom  crust  with  water  and  cutting  a  few 
slits  in  upper  crust,  put  it  on  carefully  and  paste  edge 
well  with  thumbs  to  the  edge  of  the  bottom  crust. 
Bake  moderately  from  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  just  a  nice  brown.  The  better  baked,  the  easier 
to  digest.  In  summer  green  apples  should  be  steamed 
or  simmered  until  almost  tender,  unless  of  a  mellow 
kind.  Bits  of  butter  over  the  apples  adds  much  to  the 
flavor,  but  it  is  good  without  any  flavoring.  Mild  ap- 
ples require  about  one-quarter  less  sugar. 

RHUBARB  PIE 

Do  not  peel  the  rhubarb.  Cut  in  fine  pieces  or 
about  one  inch  lengths.  Proceed  as  with  apple  pie 
only  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  may  be  mixed 
with  the  sugar  and  leave  out  flavoring. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  133 

GRAPE  PIE    (Excellent) 

On  the  very  same  principle  as  apple  pie.  Separate 
the  pulp  from  the  skins.  Boil  pulp  about  five  or  seven 
minutes,  stirring  so  as  to  break  them  quickly,  and  rub 
through  gravy  strainer.  This  is  a  very  quick  method 
of  removing  the  seeds.  It  will  be  nearly  cold  when 
through  the  sieve.  Now  pour  the  juice  over  the  skins, 
having  arranged  them  nicely  in  bottom  crust  over  half 
of  the  sugar.  Put  the  other  half  of  sugar  over  all  and 
then  put  on  the  top  crust  same  as  for  apple  pie. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

Four  good  rounding  tablespoonfuls  of  pumpkin,  ^ 
cups  of  sweet  milk  (if  you  must  use  it  a  little  old,  put  in 
a  pinch  of  baking  soda),  1  rounding  teaspoonful  of 
ginger,  }i  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses,  J^  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  pinch  of  salt.  Fresh, 
canned  or  dried  pumpkin  may  be  used.  If  the  fresh, 
simmer  three  or  four  hours  on  the  back  of  stove  and 
then  dry  out  a  little  more  in  the  open  oven,  stirring 
occasionally.  If  dried,  soak  all  night  in  very  fresh 
milk  or  soft  water,  just  enough  to  be  absorbed.  Then 
smooth  with  a  spoon  and  use  as  other  pumpkin.  A 
little  less  sugar  and  more  pumpkin  may  be  used. 

SQUASH  AND  SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  pumpkin  pie.  Either  of  these 
may  be  steamed  or  baked  and  then  mashed.  Squash 
is  very  nice  made  in  a  custard  pie  flavored  with  grated 
lemon  rind  or  extract. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

Foundation  of  recipe  is  the  pumpkin  pie,  only  use 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate  instead  of  four  and 
leave  out  spices,  substituting  vanilla  if  desired.     Use 


134  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

one  cup  of  water  instead  of  all  milk  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  to  sugar. 

Eggs  may  be  left  out  or  used ;  if  used,  one  to  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  is  sufficient.  Boil  sugar,  flour,  milk 
and  water,  as  in  "one  egg  lemon  pie,"  add  eggs  about 
one-half  minute  before  pouring  into  baked  crust.  If 
not  decorated,  set  away  to  cool.  Serve  plain,  or  with 
whipped  cream,  or  decorated  with  white  of  egg  like 
lemon  pie.  For  a  quick  and  also  nourishing  dessert 
the  plain  is  very  good.  A  little  more  sugar  may  be 
used  if  desired  very  sweet. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  135 


CREAMS,  SHERBETS  AND   ICES 


I  will  simply  give  a  few  of  the  principles,  as  they 
are  so  simple  and  easy  to  make  one  can  make  up  many 
different  recipes.  Oftentimes  little  booklets  are  found 
containing  excellent  recipes. 

Sherbets  differ  from  ice  cream  and  ices  in  beating 
whites  of  eggs  and  gelatine  may  be  added. 

Frappe  is  ice  shaved  with  fruit  juice  poured  over  it, 
generally  flavored  with  lemon  and  sugar. 

Punches  come  between  sherbets  and  frappe  and 
have  liquor  added.    Sherbets  never  have  liquor. 

Mousses  are  whipped  cream,  with  flavoring  and 
crushed  fresh  fruit  or  canned  fruit  added  and  frozen 
or  chilled. 

Ices  are  fruit  juice,  water  and  sugar  frozen. 

A  good,  strong  lemonade,  well  sweetened  and 
strained,  makes  an  excellent  lemon  ice.  Orangeade 
flavored  with  lemon  juice  makes  an  excellent  orange 
ice. 

Any  fruit  juice,  fresh  or  canned,  makes  nice  ices. 

Gelatine  should  be  first  soaked  in  cold  water,  then 
in  warm  to  take  off  gluey  taste.  It  is  soluable  at  sim- 
mering point,  but  gets  no  harder  at  boiling  point.  The 
better  the  gelatine  the  less  gluey  taste  it  has.  Excel- 
lent recipes  are  found  on  packages. 

Fruit  may  be  added  to  ice  cream  after  it  is  frozen, 
and  let  stand  for  an  hour  to  ripen. 

Plain  ice  cream  is  delicious  served  with  hot  maple 
sauce.  Put  a  tablespoonful  on  the  top  of  each  dish 
and  serve  quickly. 


136  TPIE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Use  three  parts  of  ice  and  one  of  coarse  or  rock  salt 
for  freezing. 

Do  not  use  corn  starch  or  flour  in  ice  cream  for  an 
invalid,  and  if  not  permitted  sugar,  milk  sugar  or 
saccharine  oftentimes  are  permitted. 

A  baking  powder  can  and  dinner  or  lard  pail  and 
silver  knife  for  a  dash,  make  a  good  individual  freezer 
for  an  invalid,  or  a  little  toy  freezer  makes  about  three 
dishes, 

A  FEW  SIMPLE  DESSERTS 

Let  apple  sauce  and  whipped  cream  get  very  cold 
and  mix  together.    Might  be  called  apple  snow. 

Gooseberries  may  be  prepared  the  same. 

Layers  of  oranges  and  cocoanut  (grated). 

Sponge  cake  (left  over)  with  jelly  and  whipped 
cream.     (Charlotte  Russe). 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  in  cups  or  mold,  with  cream. 

Baked  apples  with  cream  or  a  pudding  sauce. 

Sliced  bananas  and  cream. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  137 


GHE/EySEy 


One  pound  of  cheese,  which  is  a  valuable  dairy  pro- 
duct, made  of  whole  milk  or  skimmed  milk,  contains 
nearly  as  much  nourishment  as  three  of  meat — that  is, 
it  has  as  much  proteid  as  two  pounds  of  meat,  and  as 
much  fat  as  three  pounds. 

Some  do  not  appreciate  the  value  of  cheese  because 
it  is  eaten  in  the  wrong  way  and  at  the  wrong  time ; 
for  instance,  a  Welsh  rarebit  or  cheese  sandwich  before 
going  to  bed  is  very  bad.  Eaten  alone  it  is  very  indi- 
gestible, but  in  connection  with  milk  or  other  foods, 
a  small  amount,  about  one-half  to  one  ounce,  is  very 
good.  Some  scientists  say  it  aids  digestion,  being  a 
ferment.  Most  of  the  poor  of  Switzerland  carry  noth- 
ing but  bread  and  cheese  in  their  lunch. 

Many  nice  dishes  can  be  made  for  supper  or  lunch- 
eon, out  of  cheese,  and  cheese  is  excellent  occasionally 
for  those  who  carry  lunch  and  cannot  afford  meat. 

In  earlier  times  cheese  was  only  served  with  pie  and 
doughnuts,  and  but  one  kind  was  known — the  ordinary 
everyday  cheese.  Gradually,  one  by  one,  others  came 
into  use,  until  now  we  have  a  number  to  select  from. 
The  different  names  for  foreign  cheese  is  due  more 
to  the  places  at  which  they  are  made  than  to  the  pro- 
cess, while  the  American  cheese,  no  matter  where  it  is 
made,  seems  to  be  known  only  as  American  cheese. 
Some  factories  ship  a  great  deal  to  the  foreign  market, 
where  our  cheese  is  highly  appreciated.  It  has  a 
sharper  flavor  than  the  foreign  cheese.  Some  have 
been  found  adulterated,  which  is  often  the  cause  of  in- 
digestion.   Some  of  the  best  American  cheese  is  made 


138  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

in  New  York,  the  climate  and  pasturage  being  espec- 
ially adapted  for  it.  The  cheapest  and  best  known  of 
foreign  cheeses  are  imitated  in  America,  so  that  they 
can  be  bought  saving  tariff.  Most  of  us  who  desire 
to  like  cheese  for  its  nutritive  value  often  have  to  cul- 
tivate the  taste  for  foreign  cheese,  as  the  flavor  at  first 
is  unpleasant. 

No  cheese,  even  though  dried,  should  ever  be  thrown 
away,  as  it  can  be  used  with  macaroni,  eggs,  escal- 
loped  potatoes,  etc.  In  the  following  recipes  the  ordin- 
ary American  cheese  is  meant  unless  specified.  Red 
pepper  and  mustard  are  used  very  much  to  flavor 
cheese.  Ml  cheese  dishes  should  be  served  quickly 
and  piping  hot. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE 

Scald  a  pan  of  thick  sour  milk  over  the  fire,  or 
place  it  in  the  open  oven,  stirring  a  little  so  it  will  heat 
evenly,  but  do  not  boil,  as  that  makes  it  tough.  It  may 
be  placed  on  the  hearth  or  in  the  open  oven.  Then, 
pouring  into  a  clean  cheese  cloth  bag,  squeeze  out  all 
the  water  till  it  is  quite  dry,  or  let  drain  three  or  four 
hours  and  do  not  squeeze  at  all.  Now  turn  it  into  a 
basin  and  add  a  little  sweet  cream  or  melted  butter 
and  salt  to  taste.  Either  serve  in  a  bowl  or  dish 
whole  or  make  into  little  balls  and  serve  on  a  platter 
or  individually.  Some  add  a  teaspoonful  or  so  of 
sugar  and  a  suggestion  of  cayenne  or  nutmeg.  It  is 
nice  served  in  jelly  glasses.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the 
milk  get  too  old.  It  is  more  nourishing  if  cream  is  left 
on  the  milk. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

One-half  cup  each  of  butter,  flour,  bread  crumbs  and 
grated  cheese.  Mix  and  roll  thin.  Flour  the  board 
well,  cut  in  strips  a  finger  long  and  one  inch  wide. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  139 

Lay  on  sheet  of  buttered  paper  and  brown  in  oven. 
Very  little  pepper  but  no  salt.  Nice  served  with  salad, 
coffee,  pie  or  doughnuts.  Very  rich  and  to  be  eaten 
only  as  one  would  eat  cheese. 

CHEESE  ON  TOAST     (Mock  Welsh  Rarebit) 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  egg  (beaten),  one  cup  grated 
cheese,  one-half  teaspoonful- mustard  (scant),  a  very 
little  salt,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  or  flavor  to  taste 
with  other  pepper.  Put  milk  on  in  double  boiler,  with 
pinch  of  soda  (if  milk  is  not  strictly  fresh)  ;  when 
scalded,  add  egg  and  other  ingredients,  remove  as 
quick  as  thick  or  it  will  curdle.  Pour  over  platter  of 
buttered  toast  and  serve  at  once.  About  one  table- 
spoonful  or  better  is  plenty  on  an  ordinary  slice  of 
toast.  Nice  for  supper  or  luncheon  with  creamed  po- 
tatoes. 

CHEESE  ON  CRACKERS 

Grate  cheese  over  salted  wafers,  put  in  dripping  pan 
and  heat  in  oven. 

WELSH  RAREBIT 

This  is  usually  made  in  a  chafing  dish  but  can  be 
made  in  double  boiler  on  any  range  or  stove. 

One  cup  ale,  one  tablespoonful  butter  and  one-half 
pound  or  little  less  of  cheese  grated  or  shaved  fine. 
Put  these  three  in  double  boiler  and  cover.  Mix  dry 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  mustard,  pinch  of  cayenne  and 
about  two  teaspoonfuls  celery  salt.  Add  these  with 
two  well  beaten  eggs  to  the  melted  ingredients,  being 
careful  not  to  curdle.  Prevent  this  by  lifting  the  hot 
cheese  a  minute  or  mixing  a  little  with  the  eggs  first ; 
stir  well  till  thick,  about  two  or  three  minutes.  When 
removed,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  or  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  or  one  teaspoonful  of  each.  Serve 
at  once  on  toast. 


140  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

Melt  one  ounce  or  about  one  rounding  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  double  boiler;  mix  with  it  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne;  then 
add  nearly  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sweet  milk  with 
a  pinch  of  soda  stirred  well  into  it;  stir  constantly 
till  rather  thick,  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  grated  or 
shaved  cheese,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  two  beaten 
eggs.  When  all  stirred  together  it  should  be  soft  and 
creamy.  Add  a  little  scalded  milk  if  necessary  or 
some  with  a  tiny  pinch  of  soda.  Put  into  a  tin  or 
granite  pan,  filling  only  half  full  as  it  rises  very  light, 
and  cover  with  a  heated  cover,  if  possible.  Bake  about 
twenty  minutes  and  serve  the  moment  it  is  baked,  in 
the  same  dish. 

The  above  is  nice  served  on  buttered  toast  from  the 
double  boiler.  It  may  be  baked  in  patty  pans  but 
must  be  served  hot.  This  is  sometimes  called  Fonda- 
min  or  Fondue.  The  flour  may  be  baked  that  is  used 
to  thicken  it. 

CHEESE  RAMAKINS  NO.  1 

Take  some  pie  crust  or  puff  paste  that  is  left  over 
and  roll  out  evenly.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and 
fold,  roll  again  and  sprinkle  more  cheese.  Fold  and 
roll,  cut  with  baking  powder  can  or  any  desirable 
shape  and  bake  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in  brisk  oven. 
They  look  nicer  if  brushed  with  yolk  of  Ggg  before 
baking.    Serve  hot. 

CHEESE  RAMAKINS  NO.  2 

Cut  slices  of  bread  and  out  of  these  cut  rounds  with 
baking  powder  can  or  any  desired  shape.  Warm 
through  in  oven,  butter  lightly;  then  spread  upon 
them  the  mixture  like  cheese  souffle  or  cheese  on  toast 
and  brown  in  the  oven.    Serve  hot. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  141 

SCOTCH  RAREBIT 

Simply  melted  cheese  flavored  and  served  on  hot 
toast. 

For  omelets  and  sandwiches,  see  chapters  on  Eggs 
and  Sandwiches. 


142  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


CAKE,  COOKIES,  DOUGHNUTS  AND 
FROSTING 


One  doctor  says  pie  and  cake  are  an  insult  to  the 
stomach,  but  as  there  is  such  a  demand,  I  will  give  a 
few  recipes,  keeping  as  close  to  the  digestive  princi- 
ples as  possible. 

Use  either  as  little  as  possible. 

Everything  should  be  in  order  for  cake  before  be- 
ginning the  cake  itself,  and  the  first  to  be  in  order  is 
one's  self — the  hair  being  fixed  so  no  loose  hairs  are 
liable  to  fall,  and  the  hands  and  nails  clean.  The 
kitchen  table  should  be  cleared  of  everything  not 
needed  and  provide  everything  needed,  measuring 
what  should  be. 

Broom  splints  or  straws  can  be  picked  from  the 
broom  while  it  is  new  and  laid  away  for  cake  use  in 
a  drawer  or  box;  a  knitting  needle  may  be  used  in- 
stead. 

Grease  the  tins  with  fresh  lard  or  dripping  (unfla- 
vored)  before  starting  the  cake. 

Eggs  should  be  cold ;  if  no  ice-box  is  at  hand,  place 
them  in  cold  water  before  starting  cake.  Only  fresh 
eggs  can  be  beaten  stiff;  waste  no  time  trying  to  make 
old  eggs  stiff. 

If  the  oven  is  inclined  to  burn  on  the  bottom,  use 
two  or  three  thicknesses  of  parafifin  paper  in  bottom 
of  pan,  greasing  the  top  piece;  line  the  sides  also  if 
necessary,  A  grate  or  some  asbestos  paper  can  be  used 
on  bottom  of  oven  instead. 

Do  not  melt  butter  used  in  cake.  In  cold  weather 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  warm  a  little.     When  cream 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  143 

of  tartar  and  soda  is  used,  mix  the  cream  of  tartar 
with  the  flour.  Do  likewise  with- baking  powder.  Soda 
should  be  measured  as  carefully  as  a  powerful  drug. 
When  sifting  flour  more  than  once,  two  newspapers 
are  handy  as  it  pours  easily  into  the  sieve. 

To  start  nearly  all  cakes,  beat  the  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  then  add  the  milk  slowly,  or  the  eggs  may 
be  added  first  except  where  beaten  separately;  save 
the  whites  till  the  last  thing. 

When  using  baking  powder,  work  quickly,  as  it 
effervesces  only  once.  Have  the  oven  rather  moderate 
at  first,  till  the  batter  is  heated  evenly,  for  if  too  hot, 
it  will  form  a  crust  on  the  outside,  then  the  center 
will  break  through  and  the  cake  will  crack  open  on 
the  top.  The  cake  will  be  lighter  if  the  oven  is  not  too 
hot  at  first. 

If  very  particular,  roll  the  sugar,  and  for  very  nice 
cake  use  powdered  sugar.  When  soda  is  used,  dissolve 
it  in  a  very  little  luke  warm  water  or  milk  or  mix  with 
the  flour  after  some  experience  in  cake  making. 

Fruit  should  always  be  rolled  in  flour  and  added  the 
last  thing.  When  flavoring  is  used,  it  should  not  be 
added  till  the  last  thing,  though  some  have  excellent 
success  by  adding  it  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 

Beat  cake  but  one  way,  bring  the  batter  up  from 
the  bottom  at  every  stroke,  thus  driving  the  air  into 
the  cells  of  the  batter  instead  of  out.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary to  beat  hard  but  thoroughly  from  three  to  five 
minutes ;  some  cakes  require  ten  minutes.  This  makes 
a  fine  grained  cake.  For  this  reason  a  rounding  cake 
bowl  or  a  nice  granite  wash  basin  can  be  kept  for  this 
purpose;  earthen  or  stone  ware  is  best.  It  is  well  to 
remember  that  not  all  flours  act  alike;  it  requires  a 
little  more  of  some  than  others. 

There  are  four  causes  for  streaks  in  cake — poor  mix- 
ing, baking  too  fast,  baking  too  slow  at  the  last,  and 


144  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

not  baking  evenly  as  it  should.  Very  little  practice 
with  either  wood  or  gas  will  correct  this. 

If  the  cake  should  be  too  stiff  when  mixed,  add  a 
few  teaspoonfuls  of  milk;  water  will  make  it  tough. 

When  using  soda,  if  milk  is  not  sour  enough,  add  a 
little  cream  of  tartar  or  baking  powder  to  the  flour. 
In  using  baking  powder,  if  milk  is  turned  a  little,  add 
a  little  soda  to  it,  though  the  fresher  the  milk  is  the 
more  nourishment  it  contains. 

Soda  is  alkaline  and  cream  of  tartar  is  acid,  and  when 
a  liquid  is  added  to  the  two,  it  forms  a  gas,  carbon- 
dioxide,  which  escapes  heated  or  not  heated;  this  raises 
the  mixture.  Cream  of  tartar  is  made  from  a  substance 
on  wine  casks. 

Ascetic  acid  is  the  acting  substance  on  soda  which 
is  found  in  sour  milk,  molasses,  vinegar,  etc.,  hence, 
soda  is  always  used  with  sour  milk,  about  one-half 
teaspoonful,  scant  or  level,  to  a  cup. 

The  least  amount  of  baking  powder  used  the  better; 
when  eggs  are  used,  about  1^  level  teaspoonfuls  or 
^  of  a  good  teaspoonful  to  a  cup  of  flour  is  plenty, 
and  when  eggs  are  not  used,  use  one  good  teaspoonful 
to  a  cup  of  flour. 

Sour  milk  should  not  be  used  after  it  becomes  wat- 
ery ;  it  is  spoiled,  containing  poison,  although  the 
more  sour  the  milk,  the  lighter  the  cake  or  biscuit.  It 
can  stand  for  a  day  or  so  without  spoiling  after  it  be- 
comes thick. 

Alum  and  other  drugs  should  never  be  used;  they 
are  very  injurious  and  affect  the  stomach  and  nerves. 
It  is  safer  to  make  your  own  baking  powder,  (a  recipe 
will  be  given),  bread,  etc.,  though  the  high  priced  bak- 
ing powders  are  generally  pure.  Some  cakes  are  made 
very  successfully  contrary  to  the  principles. 

Some,  learning  to  cook,  may  get  discouraged  be- 
cause of  the  first  few  failures,  but  if  they  will  only  re- 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  145 

member  "practice  makes  perfect,"  they  will  succeed 
in  time.  Keep  at  it  till  it  does  come  right;  read  and 
re-read  the  principles  and  each  time  may  reveal  some 
little  mistake.  As  everyone  has  on  hand  a  supply  of 
cake  recipes,  I  will  give  but  a  few,  both  cheap  and  ex- 
pensive. The  expensive  ones  are  meant  for  Christmas, 
Easter  and  anniversaries  or  other  occasions  which  we 
all  like  to  be  as  joyful  and  nice  as  we  can  afiford. 
•  Among  the  most  delicate  of  cakes  and  the  one  least 
injurious  to  the  system,  is  the  sponge  cake.  Most 
everyone  has  a  recipe  for  this,  and  for  those  who  have 
tiot,  I  will  give  mine.  A  pinch  of  salt  can  be  used  in 
any  cake. 

In  most  of  these  recipes,  the  rounding  teaspoonfuls 
and  tablespoonfuls  are  meant. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Three  eggs,  }i  cup  sugar,  1^  rounding  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  of  sifted  flour; 
flavor  if  desired.     No  shortening. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Mix  half  of  the 
yolks,  half  of  the  sugar  and  all  of  the  milk  a  little; 
then  put  in  half  of  the  flour,  which  has  been  well  mixed 
with  the  baking  powder,  and  mix  a  little  more;  then 
the  other  half  of  the  ingredients,  mixing  a  little,  and 
last  the  whites;  beat  lightly  about  two  minutes  and 
bake  in  a  dripping  pan,  or  bake  in  two  layer  tins  and 
put  jelly  between.  Mix  the  jelly  in  a  bowl  with  a 
spoon  till  it  is  of  a  consistency  to  spread.  Some  add 
hot  water,  about  one-half  a  cup,  to  the  cake  at  the 
last,  to  make  it  bake  more  evenly,  but  I  prefer  getting 
the  oven  just  right.  Avoid  getting  it  too  hot  and  still 
hot  enough.  This  cake  is  only  nice  the  same  day  it 
is  made.  The  next  day  it  can  be  used  with  whipped 
cream  and  jelly  or  a  little  cheap  pudding  sauce,  for 
dessert,  (Charlotte  russe).     Nice  for  layer  jelly  cake 

10 


146  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

or  rolled  jelly  cake  if  hot  water  is  added.  When  baked 
in  the  dripping  pan,  it  makes  a  very  pretty  cake  with 
chocolate  frostmg  and  hickory  nuts  arranged  in  differ- 
ent ways ;  should  be  inverted  till  cold  and  frosted  when 
cold. 

WHITE  CAKE  (Aunt  Bridgid's  Cake) 

One  rounding  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour  with  1^  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Mix  as  any  cake,  adding  the  whites  last.  Bake  in  a 
rather  shallow,  square  tin,  or  may  be  baked  in  two 
large  layers.    Very  good. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE 

This  is  an  all  around  cake  for  common  use,  very 
easy  to  make.  Baked  in  a  loaf,  it  makes  a  very  nice 
cottage  pudding  for  dessert,  or  baked  in  muffin  tins, 
which  I  call  a  cottage  pudding  in  cup  form,  or  indi- 
vidual puddings  served  with  a  lemon  sauce,  putting  a 
thin  slice  of  lemon  on  top  of  each  little  cake ;  it  is  very 
nice  served  with  other  pudding  sauces  or  baked  in  two 
layers,  may  be  used  for  any  kind  of  a  layer  cake,  or 
shortcake. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  drippings,  or  half  of 
each  (lard  can  be  used  with  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt), 
1  egg  (not  beaten),  }^  cup  of  milk  or  a  little  more,  ^ 
cup  of  sugar  or  less,  1)4  heaping  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
1^  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  (a  little  less  is  bet- 
ter). 

This  makes  two  small  layers.  If  large  layers  are 
wanted,  use  a  whole  cup  of  milk  and  nearly  two  cups 
of  flour,  V/2  to  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  beat 
well  about  three  minutes.  It  makes  a  nice  loaf,  flav- 
ored with  cinnamon  or  chopped  nuts  or  by  itself. 

In  case  of  emergency,  the  above  can  be  made  with- 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  147 

out  egg,  but  it  is  not  so  nice,  and  just  a  very  little 
more  baking  powder,  milk  and  shortening  is  then 
needed.    Two  eggs  seem  to  make  it  extra  nice. 

ROLLED  JELLY  CAKE 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  separately,  then 
mix  both  together,  add  1  cup  of  sugar;  beat  well  and 
add  1  cup  of  flour,  sifted,  with  1  large  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder ;  mix  and  add  ^  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  spread  smooth  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  (not  too  hot).  Spread  with  jelly  and 
roll.    Some  lay  it  on  a  damp  towel  before  spreading. 

SPICE  CAKE 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  4  cups 
sifted  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  15^  cups  raisins  (seeded)  and  chopped  fine,  1 
teaspoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  }i  tea- 
spoonful cloves,  y2  teaspoonful  ginger,  ^  teaspoonful 
of  nutmeg. 

Mix  butter  and  sugar  a  little.  Break  eggs  in  with- 
out beating,  and  beat  about  two  minutes,  then  add 
other  ingredients  and  beat  about  five  minutes.  May 
be  spiced  to  taste.  From  start  to  finish  the  beating 
should  take  ten  minutes.    Very  good. 

-       CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sweet  milk,  2 
eggs,  2  cups  flour,  ly^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

This  is  nice  baked  in  layers  or  baked  in  a  loaf  in  a 
shallow  square  tin  or  dripping  pan. 

Filling 

One-half  cake  sweet  chocolate  mixed  with  y^  cup 
of  sweet  milk.  Set  bowl  with  these  two  in  tea  kettle 
for  four  or  five  minutes,  then  add  yolk  of  one  egg  and 


148  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  stir  rapidly  until  thick..  This 
filling  is  nice  with  chopped  hickory  nuts  or  filling  put 
on  top  and  decorated  with  half  hickory  nut  meats  be- 
fore it  hardens. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  1%  cups  sugar, 
1  scant  cup  flour,  ^  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  pinch 
of  salt. 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Do  not  beat  after 
flour  is  added,  and  mixed.  Sift  sugar  and  cream  of 
tartar  into  whites  of  eggs  (it  is  better  to  add  cream  of 
tartar  to  eggs  when  half  beaten).  Line  pan  with  para- 
ffin paper  and  bake  forty  minutes.  Excellent.  This 
is  a  delicate  cake  and  most  invalids  can  have  it  for  a 
change. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  ^/^  cup  of  butter, 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  1  cup  of  milk, 
3  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  First 
beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  milk,  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs. 
Bake  in  layers  or  in  a  shallow  loaf  tin.  Put  frost- 
ing between  and  on  top. 

Filling 

One  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  flavor 
to  taste.  Heat  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  eggs  and  stir 
till  it  thickens,  only  do  not  allow  it  to  curdle  by  cook- 
ing too  long.  Very  expensive  when  eggs  are  high, 
but  very  good. 

DEVILS  FOOD  NO.  1 

Two  cups  sugar,  Y^  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful soda  (scant),  2  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk,  ^  cup 
hot  water,  1  s(5[uare  or  1  ounce  chocolate. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  149 

Beat  eggs,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  put 
hot  water  over  chocolate  to  melt  it,  mix  soda  with  lit- 
tle warm  water,  beat  all  for  three  minutes.  Bake  in 
two  layers  or  a  loaf,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

DEVILS  FOOD  NO.  2 

Part  1 — One  cup  of  white  sugar,  y^  cup  of  butter,  Yz 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1  even  teaspoonful  baking 
soda  mixed  with  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix  dry  and  sift. 
Some  prefer  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Part  2 — One-half  cup  of  bitter  chocolate,  Yi  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  boil  this  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thickened  and  then  cool.  Then  mix  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla,  mix  all  with  No.  1  or  Part  1. 
Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling 

One  cup  of  sugar,  ^  pound  of  figs  chopped  fine,  boil 
till  tender  with  a  little  water,  then  place  between 
layers. 

This  cake  will  keep  two  weeks.    Very  nice. 

WEDDING  OR  XMAS  CAKE 

One  pound  butter,  1  pound  brown  sugar,  1  dozen 
eggs,  1  pound  flour  (about  4  cups  sifted),  2  pounds  rai- 
sins, 1  pound  currants,  1  pound  nuts,  half  almonds  and 
walnuts,  1  pound  citron  (or  5^  pound  citron  and  >4 
pound  mixed  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel),  4  small 
nutmegs  (grated),  and  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon 
enough  to  make  a  level  saucerful,  1  cup  brandy,  1  cup 
molasses,  1  level  tablespoonful  of  soda.  Mix  as  other 
cakes,  with  the  exception  that  the  soda  is  mixed  with 
brandy  and  the  fruit  is  dredged  with  the  flour  which 
is  measured  for  the  cake.  No  extra  flour  should  be 
used.  This  makes  four  loaves  about  the  size  of  an 
ordinary  five-cent  loaf  of  bread.     An  extra  pound  of 


150  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

raisins,  ^  pound  of  figs  and  1  pound  dates  may  be 
added.  It  will  then  make  five  loaves.  These  make  it  a 
very  moist  cake.  This  cake  costs  from  $2.00  to  $2.50 
in  these  days  of  high  prices. 

SPICE  CAKES 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  cream, 
2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  cup  raisins  or  currants, 
1  teaspoonful  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  )^  tea- 
spoonful  cloves,  Yz  teaspoonful  allspice,  1  small  nut- 
meg, 3^  cups  sifted  flour.  Bake  in  mufiin  tins  and 
frost,  if  desired.  Currants  are  nicer  than  raisins,  if 
washed,  drained  on  a  towel  and  dredged  with  flour. 
One-fourth  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg  may  be  used 
in  place  of  the  nutmeg. 

Both  cookies  and  doughnuts  can  be  made  very  suc- 
cessfully with  the  recipe  for  the  one  ^%%  cake,  using 
a  little  less  shortening  for  doughnuts  and  a  little  more 
for  cookies.  Of  course,  flour  is  added  to  make  a 
dough.  Both  should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible, 
and  be  as  soft ;  also  as  quickly. 

DOUGHNUTS  NO.  1 

One-half  cup  sugar,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  of  drippings  can  be  used  or  not,  1  tea- 
spoonful vanilla,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Sift  baking  powder  with  enough  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.    Roll  and  cut,  fry  in  deep  fat. 

DOUGHNUTS  NO.  2  (Sour  Milk) 

One  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  a 
good  pinch  salt,  34  teaspoonful  cinnamon  or  y%  nut- 
meg, V/z  cups  sour  milk,  Yj,  teaspoonful  soda,  2  eggs, 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Mix  the  above 
ingredients  well  together,  then  add  baking  powder 
and  flour.    Make  as  soft  as  you  can  handle. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  151 

CREAM  COOKIES  NO.  1 

(With  cocoanut) 

Beat  until  light  3  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar;  to  this 
add  }i  cup  of  cocoanut,  add  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted,  with  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  set  away  about 
an  hour,  roll  out  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cocoanut 
to  about  ^  inch  thick, 

COOKIES  NO.  2 

Three  cups  flour,  1  cup  butter  or  lard,  1  cup  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk  or 
cream,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  vanilla  to  taste.  Mix  flour 
and  shortening  well  as  for  pie  crust.  Stir  the  other 
ingredients,  which  have  been  beaten  together,  into 
the  butter  and  flour.  Just  think  of  pie  crust  and  these 
will  be  a  grand  success.     (Excellent). 

FROSTINGS 

There  are  three  kinds  of  sugar  used  in  making 
frostings  and  fillings — granulated,  powdered  and  con- 
fectioners'. 

The  granulated  moistened  and  boiled  just  a  little, 
and  mixed  with  either  of  the  other  two,  makes  a  cheap 
frosting. 

For  the  boiled  icing  the  granulated  is  used. 

With  the  powdered  sugar,  milk,  cream  or  white  of 
tgg  makes  a  nice  frosting. 

With  the_  confectioners'  sugar,  water  alone  is  suf- 
ficient. Spread  on  and  when  it  hardens,  spread  on 
another  coat  and  so  on  till  thick  as  desired.  If  dec- 
orations are  to  be  used,  decorate  while  soft.  Raw  hick- 
ory nuts  are  a  delicious  flavoring  as  well  as  decoration 
in  almost  any  frosting  or  filling.  A  little  practice  will 
make  any  of  the  following  perfect. 


152  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

The  confectioners'  sugar  simply  wet  with  white  of 
egg  and  mixed  with  different  things,  as  chocolate,  etc., 
molded  into  little  cakes  and  nuts  put  on  top  while 
soft,  makes  many  varieties  of  choice  candy,  such  as 
chocolate  creams,  walnut  creams,  etc. 

BOILED  ICING  OR  FILLING 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  %.  cup  boiling  water,  or 
little  better,  white  of  1  egg,  %  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar. 

Boil  water  and  sugar  together  till  it  spins  a  heavy 
thread,  which  only  takes  about  five  minutes.  Add 
cream  of  tartar  to  the  beaten  white  and  pour  boiling 
sugar  over  it  slowly  with  the  left  hand  v»^hile  the  right 
hand  is  constantly  stirring  it  till  it  thickens.  Flavor 
to  taste  or  nice  without  flavoring.  It  may  be  well 
to  let  sugar  cool  just  a  trifle  before  pouring.  This  is 
for  a  small  cake.  For  a  large  cake,  double  this  recipe. 
If  boiled  too  much,  frosting  will  be  too  hard,  then  add 
a  little  thin  sugar  syrup ;  if  not  boiled  enough,  and  too 
soft,  add  a  little  confectioners'  sugar. 

BOILED  ICING  WITH  CHOCOLATE 

One  cup  of  sugar,  4^  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  3 
ounces  chocolate  (2  little  squares),  (this  can  be  easily 
measured  when  you  consider  8  ounces  to  ^  pound, 
about  4  good  tablespoonfuls)  ;  whites  of  1  or  2  eggs, 
according  to  size  of  cake. 

The  process  is  same  as  above  recipe,  only  add  the 
filling  to  the  chocolate  slowly,  which  has  been  grated 
or  scraped  very  fine,  and  in  a  warm  bowl  on  back  of 
range  or  set  in  warm  water.  Vice  versa,  the  melted 
chocolate  may  be  added  to  the  filling  or  mixed  with 
the  boiled  sugar  before  pouring  over  the  egg. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  153 


BOILED  FROSTING  (for  two  large  cakes) 
(Delicious) 

One  large  cup  granulated  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  hot 
water,  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  hickory  nuts  chopped 
fine. 

Moisten  the  sugar  with  the  hot  water  and  boil 
briskly  for  five  minutes  or  until  it  spins  a  thread  or 
feathers,  as  some  say.  Have  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  and  with  left  hand  pour  the  boiled  syrup  in  a 
slow  stream  upon  the  whites,  beating  with  the  right 
hand  all  the  time.  Add  nuts.  One-half  cup  of  peanut 
butter  or  almond  paste  can  be  used  instead  of  nuts, 
but  the  nuts  seem  to  tickle  the  palate.  It  is  an  excel- 
lent frosting  without  anything  added,  and  never  fails. 

POWDERED  SUGAR  FROSTING 

Allow  one  heaping  teacup  of  powdered  sugar  to 
the  white  of  one  egg.  Beat  the  whites  just  a  little  till 
beginning  to  foam;  the  old  hard  method  is  exertion 
for  nothing.  Add  the  sugar  all  at  once  or  gradually, 
as  considered  easier  to  mix;  when  mixed,  it  is  ready 
for  use ;  flavor  if  desired.  It  is  well  to  fill  the  cake  as 
soon  as  taken  from  the  oven  ;  the  outside  can  be  frosted 
when  cold  or  nearly  so.  One  egg  v/ill  frost  a  good 
sized  cake.  This  frosting  can  be  completed  in  ten  min- 
utes. 

CONFECTIONERS'  SUGAR  FROSTING 

Can  be  made  like  the  above,  or  simply  made  with 
cold  water,  milk  or  cream,  lemon  juice,  strong  lem- 
onade, etc.  It  will  mix  easier  if  the  sugar  is  rolled 
first.  The  sugars  can  be  mixed  (powdered  and  con- 
fectioners'). Cocoanut  frosting  is  better  with  another 
layer  of  plain  frosting  over  it. 


164  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

COLORED  OR  ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING 

For  yellow  frosting,  use  yolk  of  egg"  instead  of 
white.  Either  of  the  above  may  be  used  for  ornament- 
ing a  chocolate  or  boiled  icing,  by  making  a  paper 
funnel  and  putting  the  frosting  in  it.  Squeeze  slowly 
so  it  will  run  in  little  fine  lines.  Follow  any  little 
simple  design,  as  Grecian  border,  leaves,  wheels, 
beads,  etc.  Cut  designs  from  papers  or  magazines  and 
use  for  a  pattern,  transfer  to  pasteboard  first,  and  cut 
out  with  a  pocket  knife.  Grated  orange  or  lemon  peel 
or  fruit  juice  from  canned  fruit,  can  be  used  to  color. 
Do  not  use  white  of  lemon  or  orange,  simply  the  yel- 
low. For  more  elaborate  decorations,  little  things  can 
be  bought  at  confectioners  or  grocers. 


AN  EASY  AND  EXCELLENT  FROSTING 

Take  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and  add  sweet 
milk,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  stirring  the  sugar  and 
adding  the  milk  till  it  is  about  right  to  spread  on  the 
cake.  It  breaks  when  it  is  ready.  Flavoring,  chopped 
raisins,  nuts,  a  little  melted  chocolate  slowly  added, 
sliced  bananas  or  any  desired  fruit  or  flavoring  may 
be  added.    It  is  very  nice  without  any  flavoring. 

CARAMEL  FILLING 

One  and  one-half  cups  lightest  brown  sugar,  ^  cup 
white  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  cream,  butter  size  of  walnut, 
vanilla,  chopped  nuts  or  raisins.  Boil  till  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.     Beat. 

FIG  FILLING 

One  pound  figs,  chopped,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
water.    Boil  slowly  a  few  minutes. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  155 

APPLE  AND   CINNAMON  CAKE 

Bake  a  little  one  egg  cake  in  a  shallow  loaf  tin  or 
deep  layer  cake  tin  and  spread  over  the  batter  sliced 
apples,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Use  as  cake  or  dessert 
with  some  simple  sauce.  It  is  simply  an  inverted 
bird's  nest — Children's  delight. 


156  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


AN  APPROXIMATE  TABLE  OF 
WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


One  cup  of  flour,  4  ounces  (sifted)  equals  Yz  pint. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  1  pound  (sifted)  equals  1  quart. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar  equals  1  pound  (granu- 
lated also). 

Three  cups  (breakfast)  of  sugar,  1  pound  granulated, 
equals  1  pint. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  6^  ounces. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  13  ounces,  equals  1  pint. 

One  cup  suet,  2  ounces,  (very  light),  (shredded). 

One  solid  pint  chopped  meat,  1  pound. 

One  cup  chopped  meat,  ^  pound. 

One  cup  butter,  Yz  pound  (packed). 

Four  teaspoons  equal  1  tablespoon  (liquid). 

Eight  teaspoons  or  2  tablespoons  equal  1  ounce. 

Sixteen  ounces,  32  tablespoons,  equal  1  pound,  equals 
1  pint  of  liquid;  (not  true  of  all  liquids)  ;  a  half  pint 
bottle  is  8  ounces. 

One-half  cup  equals  8  tablespoons,  equals  2  wine 
glasses,  equals  1  gill. 

Four  tablespoons  equal  1  wine  glass,  equals  ^  gill. 

Two  cups  or  4  gills  equal  1  pint. 

Two  pints  equal  1  quart. 

Four  quarts  equal  1  gallon. 

Three  cups  (IJ^  pints)  cornmeal,  equal  1  pound. 

One-fourth  cup  of  rice,  raw,  makes  1  cup  cooked. 

One  tablespoonful  of  salt  equals  1  ounce. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  well  rounded,  equals  1 
ounce. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  157 

One  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  equals  2  of  flour  for 

thickening. 
One  notched  square  of  Baker's  chocolate  is  1  ounce  or 

about    2    rounding    tablespoons    when    grated    or 

scraped. 
Ten  ordinary  sized  eggs  equal  1  pound. 
An  ordinary  tumber  equals  1  coffee  cup,  equals  ^2  pint. 
About  25  drops  equals  1  teaspoonful  (not  true  of  all 

liquids). 


158  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


CEREALS 


They  are  very  good  for  both  breakfast  and  supper. 

The  cooked  cereals  have  better  flavor  if  allowed  to 
boil  on  stove  in  inside  boiler  first  for  ten  minutes,  then 
set  into  outside  boiler  and  cook  slowly,  using  cozies. 
They  should  all  be  steamed  at  least  one  hour,  though 
longer  does  no  harm ;  four  hours  makes  oatmeal  good, 
eight  hours  better  and  twelve  hours  best.  Use  fire- 
less  cooker  all  night. 

Any  of  the  boiled  cereals  are  nice  made  thickened 
and  fried  next  morning.  Eat  with  syrup.  If  any  is 
left  over,  it  can  also  be  fried.  Steam  one  or  two  hours 
before  pouring  to  set  for  frying.  Grape  nuts  put  in 
the  oven  and  warmed,  will  make  them  more  digestible. 
They  can  also  be  served  by  first  putting  a  little  hot 
water  on  them,  then  cream.  The  ready  to  eat  cereals 
should  always  be  carefully  closed  after  using  from 
the  package,  or  they  will  lose  their  crispness. 

The  only  two  cereals  which  have  gluten  are  wheat 
and  rye.  The  ready  to  eat  crisp  foods  are  nice  with 
sliced  bananas  or  other  fruit.  They  are  not  so  nour- 
ishing as  the  home  cooked  cereals. 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT 

These  four  recipes  are  meant  for  a  five  pint  boiler. 
Fill  within  15^  inches  of  top  of  boiler,  with  boiling 
water,  add  1}^  teaspoonfuls  salt.  Stir  in  1^  coffee 
cups  of  cream  of  wheat,  slowly.  Stir  till  thick,  cover 
up  snugly  with  cozy  and  let  steam  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes.  Better  flavored  if  boiled  in  inside  boiler 
on  stove  for  ten  minutes  first.  Very  wholesome. 
Must  be  thicker  for  frying. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  159 

RALSTON'S 

Same  rule,  only  use  almost  two  cups  of  the  meal. 

CORN  MEAL 

Same  rule,  except  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  1^  cups  meal 
and  if  for  frying,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  or  so  of  sugar 
to  make  it  brown  quicker.  If  more  than  1^  cups  are 
used,  it  will  boil  over  on  stove.  Better  if  steamed  one 
hour  or  more.  This  corn  meal  recipe  is  meant  for 
fried  mush  cooked  in  a  quart  double  boiler,  or  a  thin 
porridge  in  the  5  pint  boiler. 

Oat  meal  requires  2  teaspoonfuls  salt  and  3  large 
coffee  cups  of  Saxon  Oats.  Different  oat  meals  re- 
quire a  different  amount. 

Any  of  these  makes  a  nice,  wholesome  dish  for  sup- 
per, occasionally  as  does  any  porridge.  Hominy  is 
often  used  in  place  of  cereals  or  boiled  rice.  Boil  same 
as  rice,  only  steam  much  longer. 


160  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


DRINKS 


The  three  beverages  most  commonly  used  are  tea, 
coffee  and  cocoa.  In  composition  tea  and  coffee  are 
nearly  alike,  theine  being  the  active  principle  of  tea  and 
caffeine  of  coffee. 

The  Bromine  is  the  acting  principle  of  chocolate. 
Chocolate  is  made  by  grinding  the  seeds  of  the  cocoa 
palm  and  mixing  with  starch  and  sugar,  the  most  nourish- 
ing of  all  drinks  containing  from  45  to  50  per  cent  of  the 
lats  and  about  IG  per  cent  of  the  proteids.  It  is  not  only 
valuable  as  a  drink  but  for  many  tempting  dishes.  Ex- 
cellent for  nervous,  thin  children,  though  they  should  not 
be  allowed  enough  to  injure  digestion.  One  of  the  little 
notched  squares  in  Baker's  chocolate  is  one  ounce.  Good 
rules  for  making  cocoa  or  chocolate  are  found  on  all 
packages.  Some  like  it  less  strong  than  the  rules  given. 
Very  good  sweetened  with  brown  sugar;  flavor  with 
vanilla  when  about  to  remove  from  the  stove,  very  good 
used  as  a  flavor  for  hot  milk  and  egg-nog.  Chocolate  is 
sometimes  adulterated  with  starch  and  sugar.  Un- 
ground  coffee  is  not  adulterated  very  much,  while  the 
ground  coffee  is  often  not  coffee  at  all,  being  a  mixture 
of  acorns,  peas,  corn,  etc. 

Tea  is  green  or  black  according  to  the  method  of  dry- 
ing or  curing,  green  being  dried  quickly  while  the  black 
is  thrown  in  a  heap  to  ferment  before  finishing. 

Caffeine, 

Tannin  (not  so   much 

as  in  tea) 
Volatile  oil  in  roasted 


Tea 


'  TheLne, 
Tannin, 

Volatile  Oil,  Coffee  ■{ 

Very  little  starch 
or  albumen. 


coffee   produced    by 
heat. 


Tea  is  adulterated  with  poor  varieties ;  green  tea  is 
tinted  sometimes,  with  indigo  and  gypsum,  to  color  black 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  161 

tea  graphite  is  often  used;  leaves  of  willow  and  other 
trees  and  shrubs  arejilso  used  for  adulteration.  A  good 
cup  of  coffee  costs  about  twice  as  much  as  a  cup  of 
good  tea.  Both  tea  and  coffee  produce  sleeplessness 
in  invalids,  children  and  nervous  people,  owing  to  the 
volatile  oil  acting  as  a  stimulant. 

TO  MAKE  TEA 

Use  a  china,  earthenware  or  silver  teapot  or  better 
still,  use  two  which  have  been  heated  by  filling  with  boil- 
ing water  before  the  tea  is  made. 

For  an  ordinary  quart  teapot,  place  1  to  2  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  tea  in  the  hot  teapot  and  pour  the  boiling 
water  on  the  minute  it  boils,  then  let  stand  from  three  to 
five  minutes  on  back  of  stove.  (Never  allow  it  to  boil). 
Pour  or  strain  immediately  into  the  other  hot  teapot  or 
cups. 

If  ice  tea  is  wanted,  pour  immediately  on  to  the  sugar, 
allowing  about  1^  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  for  each  per- 
son— cover  and  when  cold,  set  in  the  ice  box  or  cellar. 
Iced  tea  or  often  times  hot  tea,  is  nice  served  with  a  slice 
of  lemon. 

The  use  of  milk  in  tea  should  be  avoided  as  it  precip- 
itates the  tannin  and  forms  a  compound  difficult  of  di- 
gestion. This  same  element  of  milk  is  found  in  other 
foods  so  that  consequently  if  tea  is  taken  at  all,  it  should 
be  taken  alone  or  with  jusj:  a  light  wafer,  between  meals. 
This  is  true  of  coffee,  but  not  so  marked.  Very  careful 
attention  should  be  paid  to  the  making  of  tea — never  let 
the  grounds  stand  in  it  more  than  five  minutes  as  it  draws 
out  too  much  of  the  tannin. 

ARMY  COFFEE 

Coffee  does  not  give  up  its  tannin  so  easily  as  tea  and 
hence  can  stand  boiling. 

The  old  rule  for  making  coffee  is  a  tablespoonful  for 
u 


162  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

each  cup  and  one  for  the  pot,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
This  makes  a  very,  very  strong  coffee.  In  the  army  it 
is  put  in  a  cheese  cloth  sack  put  over  with  cold  water, 
brought  to  a  boil,  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Half  the 
amount  is  very  good  with  the  same  method  without  the 
sack,  and  the  cheapest  method. 

Most  common  way,  but  rather  expensive 

Take  the  same  amount,  (one  tablespoonful  to  cup,  etc), 
or  half  if  desired,  mix  with  a  little  egg  and  cold  water. 
Pour  a  little  boiling  water  on  and  let  boil  moderately 
for  fifteen  minutes,  put  on  the  rest  of  boiling  water,  let 
stand  to  settle  about  three  minutes  and  serve. 

The  French  drip  method,  though  the  best  flavored, 
is  too  expensive  for  every  day  use.  The  coffeepots  with 
the  inside  part  perforated,  make  an  excellent  coffee.  The 
grounds  can  be  removed  the  minute  the  coffee  is  made 
which  should  always  be  done  if  to  stand  any  length  of 
time. 

Pretty  cozies  can  be  quilted  or  padded  to  keep  tea  and 
coffee  warm  on  the  table. 

COFFEE  FOR  AN  INVALID 

Put  a  little  over  a  tablespoonful  of  coffee  in  a  warm 
bowl,  pour  boiling  water  on,  cover  with  saucer  and  let 
stand  two  to  five  minutes,  strain  into  warm  cup  and  drink 
clear,  if  they  can,  or  disguise  a  raw  egg  beaten  and  let 
them  sip  it  in  a  rather  dark  room.    Do  not  boil. 

NOURISHING  DRINKS 

These  are  intended  for  the  sick,  also  for  between  meal 
lunches  for  well  people  who  have  to  work  extra  hard  and 
need  to  keep  up  their  strength. 

Solid  food  should  not  be  eaten  between  meals,  but 
nourishing  drinks  may  be  taken. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  163 

The  one  thing  about  these  lunches  is  they  should  be 
taken  at  the  same  hour  every  day,  not  later  than  ten  in 
the  morning  for  those  having  dinner  at  twelve,  nor  eleven 
for  those  having  dinner  at  one,  nor  later  than  four  or 
five  in  the  afternoon,  according  to  time  of  evening  meal. 
Though  wine  and  liquors  are  given  as  flavorings,  they 
are  not  recommended ;  the  recipes  may  be  used  as  founda- 
tions using  other  flavors  or  none  at  all.  One  learns  to 
like  the  plain. 

ALBUMINIZED  MILK 

One-half  cup  milk,  white  1  egg,  put  both  in  a  shaker, 
shake  well  and  serve  at  once.  If  lemon  juice  is  added, 
use  it  slowly  or  it  will  curdle. 

ALBUMINIZED  WATER 

White  of  1  egg,  1  cup  cold  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  lemon 
juice,  1  or  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  (better  for  system 
without  sugar).  Break  the  egg  a  little  and  put  all  the  in- 
gredients into  a  covered  jar  and  shake  till  blended 
thoroughly.  If  it  is  cooled  on  ice  it  must  be  shaken 
again  as  ingredients  separate.    Use  good,  pure  water.    - 

KOUMYSS 

One  quart  milk,  1  yeast  cake,  1^^  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
1  tablespoonful  luke  warm  water  to  dissolve  yeast  cake. 

Heat  the  milk  until  luke  warm,  add  sugar  and  yeast 
cake.  Fill  beer  bottles  one  and  one-half  inches  from  the 
top,  cork  and  invert.  Tie  corks  firmly.  Let  stand  for 
six  hours  inverted  in  a  temperature  of  80  degrees.  Chill 
and  serve  the  following  day. 

LEMON  WHEY 

One  cup  hot  milk,  1  small  lemon.  Heat  milk  in 
double  boiler,  add  lemon  juice,  cook  until  curd  sep- 
arates.      If   strained  by   pressing  whey   from  curd,  a 


164  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

larger  amount  passes  through.    When  strained,  add  1 
teaspoonful  sugar.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

WINE  WHEY 

Should  not  be  used  only  under  orders  of  conscientious 
doctor  and  then  only  as  few  times  as  possible. 

One  cup  boiling  milk,  Yz  cup  sherry  wine,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  sugar.  Pour  the  wine  into  hot  milk  and  allow  to 
stand  about  three  minutes  or  until  the  curd  separates. 
Strain  and  sweeten  to  taste.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

EGG  BROTH 

One  ^^^,  salt  (one  pinch)  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  2  cups 
of  hot  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  salt  and  sugar,  pour 
the  hot  milk  slowly  over  it.  Serve  immediately.  One 
cup  of  milk  may  be  used.  It  is  well  to  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  cold  cream  in  the  milk  before  pouring  over  tg'g. 

RENNET 

(Junket  tablets  may  be  used  instead.    Ten  cents  a  box 

at  druggists.) 

One  quart  milk  slightly  warmed  (about  100  degrees 
or  less)  and  sweetened,  1  tablespoonful  rennet.  Stir  just 
enough  to  mix  thoroughly.  Serve  with  cream,  sugar, 
jellies  or  preserved  ginger.  Makes  a  nice  dessert  for 
dinner.  Served  as  whole  in  mold  or  set  in  custard  cups. 
If  milk  is  too  warm  or  stirred  too  much,  it  will  curdle. 

COLD  EGG  NOG 

One  ^g,  pinch  salt,  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  brandy  or  wine. 
Beat  the  ^%g,  add  the  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  add  1 
tablespoonful  of  brandy.  One  cup  of  milk  may  be  used 
or  1^2  cups.  Brandy  should  only  be  used  if  a  stimulant 
is  needed.     Cinnamon,  nutmeg,  or  other  flavorings  are 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  165 

better  for  everyday  use.     Strain  for  fear  of  serving  the 
stringy  part  of  the  Qgg. 

HOT  EGG  NOG 

Yolk  of  1  egg,  1  cup  hot  milk,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar, 
pinch  salt.  Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  add  the  sugar,  pour 
the  hot  milk  over  them  and  flavor  as  desired.  If  wine  or 
brandy  is  ordered,  use  1  tablespoonful.  The  whole  egg 
can  be  used  or  the  white  may  be  browned  on  the  top  in 
the  oven  to  tempt  and  surprise  the  invalid. 

EGG  CORDIAL 

White  of  1  egg,  tableapoonful  brandy,  tablespoonful 
cream,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar.  Beat  the  egg  but  not  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Add  the  cream  and  beat  them  together,  then 
add  the  brandy  and  sugar.  Sugar  syrup  may  be  used  to 
sweeten  it. 

COOKED  EGG  NOG 

Boil  milk  and  beat  yellow  of  egg,  pour  over  it  the  hot 
milk.  Return  to  stove  in  double  boiler,  when  thick  and 
cool,  add  sherry  wine  and  white  of  egg.  Add  sugar, 
while  hot  and  use  other  flavorings  if  desired.  Wine 
should  be  warmed  a  little. 

LEMON  EGG  NOG 

Mix  sugar  with  lemonade  and  pour  over  the  above  egg 
nog,  then  add  the  white  well  beaten  and  shake  in  a  shaker. 
Leave  out  milk. 

HOT  WATER  EGG  NOG 

Make  like  any  egg  nog,  using  }4  cup  of  hot  water  in- 
stead of  milk. 

PHILIP'S  COCOA 

Four  even  teaspoonfuls  cocoa,  J4  cup  boiled  water,  a 
little  cold  water,  1  cup  scalded  milk.    Mix  cocoa  with  a 


166  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

little  cold  water,  add  to  boiling  water,  boil  one  minute, 
then  add  scalded  milk  and  beat  one  minute,  beat  with 
Dover  egg  beater.  The  froth  formed  prevents  scum 
which  is  so  unsightly.  One  may  use  less  cocoa  and  in- 
stead of  blending  with  cold  water  mix  very  little  flour 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  with  the  cocoa.  Add  a  sug- 
gestion of  salt.  Sweeten  and  cream  same  as  tea  or  coffee. 
Cocoa  may  be  used  instead  of  chocolate  for  pies,  pud- 
dings, etc.  in  the  same  manner  as  a  simple  pudding  sauce. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL  NO.  1 

1  quart  boiling  water,  1  to  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  rolled  oats.  Put  all  ingredients  in  upper  part 
of  double  boiler,  cook  over  fire  for  one  hour  or  more, 
strain,  add  milk  and  serv^e.  It  may  be  cooked  in  ten  min- 
utes or  two  hours,  the  longer  the  better  the  flavor.  A 
tiny  bit  of  butter,  sugar  and  cream  adds  to  flavor. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL  NO.  2 

Two  tablespoonfuls  rolled  oats,  cold  water,  %  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  1  pint  hot  milk.  Mix  oatmeal  and  salt,  add 
enough  cold  water  to  moisten.  Add  hot  milk  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  for  one  hour  or  more.    Strain. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL  NO.  3 

Two-thirds  cup  coarse  meal,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  pint 
cold  water,  milk,  cream.  Pound  out  meal  till  mealy,  add 
y^  of  the  cold  water,  stir  well,  let  settle.  Repeat  twice 
using  remaining  water.  Boil  the  meal  water  ten  minutes, 
season  with  salt,  dilute  with  milk  and  cream,  strain  and 
serve.  Delicate,  more  expensive  than  others  and  less 
nutritious. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRUEL 

Two  tablespoonfuls  Indian  meal,  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
14  teaspoonful  salt,  cold  water,  3  cups  boiling  water, 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  167 

milk  or  cream.  Mix  meal,  flour  and  salt,  add  cold 
water  to  make  thin  paste,  add  to  boiling  water  and  boil 
gently  one  hour,  dilute  with  milk  or  cream.  A  richer 
gruel  can  be  made  by  using  milk  instead  of  water.  Cook 
three  hours  in  double  boiler. 

CRACKER  GRUEL 

Eight  tablespoonfuls  powdered  crackers,  ^  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  milk.  Mix  salt 
with  crackers,  add  these  to  milk  and  water,  and  cook 
for  a  few  minutes^  strain  and  serve  with  milk  and  salt 
if  needed. 

BARLEY  GRUEL 

One  cup  boiling  water,  cold  water,  3  teaspoonfuls  bar- 
ley flour,  1  cup  milk,  %.  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  barley 
flour  with  cold  water  to  make  paste,  add  to  boiling  water 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  milk  and  season.  Re- 
heat and  strain. 

RICE  GRUEL 

One  ounce  (3  tablespoonfuls)  ground  rice,  3  of  milk 
or  water,  speck  salt.  Mix  like  simple  oatmeal  gruel,  cook 
fifteen  minutes  or  more.  Sugar,  wine  or  brandy  may  be 
used  if  prescribed.    Use  in  bowel  complaints. 

ARROW  ROOT  GRUEL 

One  cup  boiling  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  Bermuda  arrow 
root,  cold  water,  salt.  Mix. arrow  root  with  cold  water 
to  form  thin  paste,  add  boiling  water,  cook  ten  minutes, 
season;  use  cream  if  desired.  Arrow  root  is  the  purest 
form  of  starch. 

FARINA  GRUEL 

Two  cups  boiling  water,  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoonful 
farina,  1  ^gg,  cold  water,  ^  teaspoonful  salt.     Mix  farina 


168  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

with  enough  cold  water  to  form  a  thin  paste,  add  boiling 
water,  boil  thirty  minutes,  then  add  milk  and  reheat.  Beat 
egg  and  add  to  gruel,  season  and  serve. 

FRUIT  DRINKS 

Most  drinks  should  be  strained  for  the  sick.  A  little 
piece  of  ice  adds  much  to  the  flavor  of  all  fruit  drinks. 

LEMONADE    (Plain) 

Use  about  ^  of  a  lemon  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar 
to  a  glass  of  water.  The  peeled  lemon  and  sugar  are 
pressed  together  with  wood  potato  masher  and  water 
added.  With  the  lemon  squeezer  it  takes  about  J^  a 
lemon  to  a  glass ;  lemons  differ  in  amount  of  juice. 
The  water  should  be  measured  with  a  glass. 

FRUIT  DRINKS 

Canned  fruit  juice  diluted  and  flavored  with  orange 
juice  or  sliced  orange,  lemon  or  pineapple  and  ice  added 
are  very  refreshing. 

ORANGE  ADE 

Made  like  lemonade  only  more  juice  and  less  sugar, 
nice  flavored  with  lemon.  In  strawberry  season,  crush 
strawberries,  strain  and  sweeten.  Flavor  and  dilute  if 
necessary.  Persons  suffering  from  hay-fever  should 
avoid  strawberries.  For  the  other  nourishing  liquids 
or  semi-liquids,  see  soups  and  desserts. 

BONNY  CLABBER 

Set  skimmed  milk  in  tumblers  or  a  glass  dish  in  a 
very  clean  place  to  thicken,  then  sprinkle  with  cinnamon 
and  a  little  sugar.  It  is  nice  for  a  change  (ice-cold). 
Eat  with  a  spoon. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  169 


CANNING 


For  people  who  live  in  the  country,  it  is  cheaper  to  can 
your  own  fruit  and  vegetables.  In  the  city  it  is  well  to 
have  some  cans  on  hand  as  often  you  can  buy  fruit  and 
vegetables  very  reasonable  from  the  peddlers,  and  oft- 
entimes nice  and  fresh.  By  putting  up  a  basketful  now 
and  then,  you  don't  realize  how  soon  you  have  a  nice 
supply  in  the  basement  which  must  be  very  cold.  Where 
there  is  a  furnace,  there  should  be  a  little  room  remote 
from  it,  for  cold  storage.  Most  things  keep  well  in  a 
cool,  dark  cupboard  or  pantry. 

For  people  who  have  little  time,  it  is  good  that  those 
things  can  be  bought,  but  the  home  canning  is  the  best. 
However,  it  is  not  wise  to  put  all  the  money  you  have 
for  fruit  into  canning,  let  half  or  a  reasonable  amount 
be  used  for  the  fresh  fruit  while  it  is  in  season,  and  let 
the  family  have  the  benefit  of  it  while  it  is  in  season. 
Some  people  do  too  much  canning  and  deprive  them- 
selves of  the  fresh  fruit,  while  others  don't  do  enough. 
Even  under  the  pure  food  laws  the  home  canning  is 
the  best. 

Refrain  from  the  use  of  acids  and  preservatives.  The 
stomach  and  other  organs  are  a  far  greater  loss  than  a 
spoiled  can  of  fruit  occasionally.  However,  neither  fruit 
nor  vegetables  will  spoil  if  you  are  particular  about  your 
cans  and  place  of  keeping.  The  cans  should  be  washed 
and  rinsed  with  very  hot  water,  that  is,  sterilize  them, 
cans,  covers  and  rubbers.  It  is  well  to  partly  prepare 
them  the  day  before.  Put  on  cover  and  rubber,  having 
a  little  hot  water  in  the  can  and  turn  upside  down  to 
see  if  can  is  safe.     Sometimes  there  is  a  flaw  in  either 


170  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

the  cover  or  the  can;  if  it  is  the  cover,  try  another  one, 
and  if  the  can  has  a  flaw  in  it,  seal  with  a  little  roll  of; 
putty  when  the  can  is  full  and  nearly  cold ;  the  putty^ 
must  be  well  pounded  or  molded  in  the  hand,  pressed, 
on  firmly  and  pressed  again  after  can  is  cold.  It  can  be' 
removed  by  tapping  a  small  sewing  machine  screw^ 
driver  with  a  tack  hammer  without  injuring  the  can  or 
cover.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  buy  a  dozen  jars  with- 
out a  flaw  and  it  is  very  easy  to  crack  them  at  the  top 
when  tightening.  Tighten  very  slowly,  especially  the 
two  quart  cans.  Only  those  with  flaws  need  to  be  sealed 
with  sealing  material.  Paraffin  is  excellent  and  when 
melted  can  be  put  on  with  a  little  brush  made  of  tooth- 
pick and  cotton ;  it  can  be  saved  when  can  is  opened  and 
used  again  next  year.  Some  use  a  bar  of  common 
laundry  soap  for  sealing.  Screv/  down  tops  immediately 
after  filling,  though  it  does  no  harm  to  let  fruit  shrink 
a  few  minutes  and  fill  with  boiling  water  or  syrup. 
When  opening  a  can  sealed  with  paraffin,  stick  in  warm 
water  or  set  in  ovenjust  a  minute.  If  using  a  steel 
range  the  cans  can  be  heated  on  back  of  range,  if  gas, 
put  the  cans  in  pan  of  hot  water.  If  stoneware  is  bought 
for  canning  purposes  be  sure  that  it  is  well  glazed  or 
poisonous  goods  may  be  the  result.  (Lead  is  used  in 
some  glazing,  beware  of  it.)  For  things  requiring  long 
cooking,  use  fireless  cooker  over  night  and  simply  reheat 
in  the  morning  before  canning. 

In  putting  up  small  quantities  at  a  time,  a  teaspoon 
makes  a  better  measure  than  a  cup,  that  is  if  one  has 
material  enough  for,  say  two  bottles  of  catsup.  Twenty 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  heaping,  makes  a  common  break- 
fast cup  and  eight  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  make  a  half  cup. 
One  of  the  common  baskets  used  for  grapes,  peaches, 
etc.,  is  equal  to  about  half  a  peck,  when  heaping  full. 
A  small  milk  pitcher  is  good  for  filling  the  cans  or  a 
wide  mouthed  funnel  can  be  made  of  paraffin  or  writing 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  171 

paper.  Rusty  dippers  and  cooking  utensils  should  be 
avoided.  Silver  and  porcelain  are  best.  Keeping  de- 
pends on  sterilization  and  sealing.  Everything  should 
be  sterilized,  even  the  hands  should  be  rinsed  ofter  in 
sterile  water  while  canning.  Sterilizing  may  be  done 
by  either  baking  or  boiling,  rubbers  should  be  scalded 
in  a  separate  utensil. 

Both  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  selected  care- 
fully, being  fresh  as  possible  and  not  too  ripe ;  blemishes 
and  bad  spots  should  be  removed.  Also  select  the  best 
granulated  sugar,  as  the  cheap  is  adulterated  to  a  great 
extent  with  glucose  and  other  things.  All  tough  fruits 
and  vegetables  may  be  parboiled  three  to  five  minutes 
in  baking  soda  water. 

It  is  very  convenient  when  peeling,  to  keep  a  wet 
sterile,  cloth  near,  as  the  knife  discolors  so  and  should  be 
wiped  very  often,  or  use  a  thin,  sharp  silver  fruit  knife. 

Both  the  best  flavored  and  best  keeping  things  are 
put  up  without  peeling,  which  is  economical  and  also  a 
very  good  method  when  pressed  for  time.  The  down  on 
peaches  can  be  removed  with  a  coarse  towel  or  a  rather 
stiff  brush.  Pineapples  are  easier  peeled  if  first  cut  in 
circles  and  then  peel  the  circles. 

The  cans  should  be  filled  where  it  is  warm  and  ex- 
cluded from  draft  and  the  cold  air,  and  when  taken  from 
the  stove  should  be  set  on  something  warm ;  if  desired, 
they  can  stand  a  few  minutes  for  fruit  to  shrink,  then 
fill  to  overflowing,  with  the  hot  syrup  or  boiling  water 
from  the  teakettle,  then  seal  and  invert.  The  covers 
should  be  heated  as  heat  expands,  and  some  give  the 
cover  an  extra  twist  after  can  is  cold.  I  never  disturb 
the  cover  after  can  is  cold,  for  after  the  can  is  inverted 
the  syrup  settles  in  between  the  cover  and  can  and  makes 
a  fairly  good  seal.    Give  an  extra  twist  just  before  cold. 

On  opening,  if  any  mold  appears,  remove  very  carefully 
or  flavor  of  mold  will  go  through  the  fruit,  also  carry 


172  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

from  the  cellar  very  carefully.  The  same  method  of 
canning  one  kind  of  friut  or  vegetable,  applies  to  almost 
all  kinds  with  a  few  exceptions,  as  corn.  Corn  is  easier 
to  can  if  mixed  with  tomatoes. 

To  open  a  can,  stick  a  needle  under  the  rubber,  in  two 
or  three  places  and  let  the  air  in.  Do  not  dent  the  cover 
or  you  may  lose  a  can  of  fruit  next  year. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  throw  away  all  the  old  rubbers, 
only  those  that  are  imperfect.  Small  fruits  should  never 
stand  over  night,  if  they  have  to,  can  early  the  next 
morning. 

The  place  where  canned  goods  is  kept,  should  be  very 
dark  as  the  light  injures  the  color  of  the  fruit  and  in 
tomatoes  causes  the  formation  of  citric  acid.  It  should 
also  be  dry.  Cans  should  be  examined  three  or  four 
days  after  filling,  and  if  a  can  is  found  leaking  at  rim, 
this  leak  should  be  brushed  well  with  melted  paraffin. 
If  a  can  has  no  cover  or  broken  at  the  top  pour  a  few 
spoons  of  melted  paraffin  on  top  after  fruit  is  cold  or 
nearly  so.  Melted  paraffin  well  brushed  on  edge  of  cover 
will  keep  fruit  without  rubbers.  Stone  jars  are  nice  for 
strawberries  if  those  with  the  covers  that  set  in,  can  be 
bought;  they  are  easy  to  seal  and  keep  the  flavor  and 
color  of  the  fruit  better.  A  tiny  spider. or  kettle  with  a 
little  nozzle  or  dent  on  the  side  for  pouring  is  excellent 
for  melting  sealing  wax  or  paraffin. 

On  opening  tin  cans  or  those  which  have  been  bought, 
pour  all  the  fruit  or  vegetable  out  into  any  kind  of  a  dish 
that  will  not  tarnish.  Never  let  it  stand  in  the  open  can. 
as  this  has  caused  very  severe  cases  of  poisoning. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  put  a  circle  of  paraffin  on  a  large 
jar,  brush  again  with  paraffin  around  the  edge  after  the 
rircle  has  cooled  and  shrunk. 

Glass  cans  and  covers  will  last  for  years  if  carefully 

.ished  and  thoroughly  dried  after  using  the  fruit.     Put 

v^,r  back  on  can  loosely  after  drying  in  oven. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  173 

If  syrup  is  left  after  canning  fruit,  it  may  be  flavored 
with  vinegar  or  lemon,  boiled  for  a  minute  and  bottled 
to  use  with  ice  water  for  refreshing  drinks  in  the  sum- 
mer time.  Peach  skins  make  good  syrup  for  table  use ; 
make  in  the  same  way  as  jelly. 

Nothing  will  be  said  about  preserves  as  they  are  so 
very  expensive  and  require  so  much  time  and  prepara- 
tion, besides  being  indigestible. 

PROCESS  OF  CANNING  FRUIT 

Put  in  a  large  porcelain  pan  or  kettle,  about  two  quarts 
of  water  and  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of  one  cup  to  two 
cups  to  one  quart  of  fruit,  when  finished,  according  to 
the  tartness  of  the  fruit  (peaches  require  only  a  cup  to 
a  quart,  while  strawberries  require  two).  Boil  till  a  nice 
syrup,  then  put  in  fruit  enough,  say  for  four  quarts  and 
heat  through,  thoroughly  pushing  around  very  delicately 
with  a  porcelain,  wooden  or  silver  spoon  so  as  not  to 
break  or  discolor  the  fruit.  When  heated  through,  drop 
delicately  into  the  cans  (which  have  been  well  prepared, 
tested  and  heated),  with  pitcher,  cup  or  spoon;  fill  to 
overflowing,  screw  slowly  and  carefully  for  fear  of  break- 
ing and  invert  in  a  rather  warm  place  Avoid  sudden 
changes  of  temperature  or  cans  may  crack.  If  a  can 
should  happen  to  leak  or  crack  near  the  cover,  seal  with 
putty  or  parafiin.  The  same  syrup  may  be  used  twice, 
that  is  for  the  next  two  or  four  cans,  if  strong  enough 
or  even  more  times.  Let  boil  two  or  three  minutes  be- 
fore putting  in  fruit  the  second  time;  add  sugar  if  nec- 
essary. It  is  well  to  have  a  little  extra  syrup  in  a  sauce 
pan  for  fear  of  running,  short.  One  can  even  up  the 
cans  better  and  be  able  to  get  out,  say  eight  good  quarts 
when  you  might  only  have  seven  and  a  half.  If  not 
needed  it  can  be  used  on  the  table. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  to  one  quart  is  sufficient  for 
mild  fruits. 


174  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Strawberries  are  the  most  apt  to  spoil,  hence  have 
plenty  of  hot  syrup  on  hand  to  fill  the  cans  well.  If  any 
juice  is  left  it  can  be  mixed  with  last  year's  currant  juice 
and  jelled. 

Cherries  are  hard  to  put  up  if  one  has  not  a  cherry 
pitter.  Save  juice  and  seeds  when  pitting,  cover  with 
cold  water ;  boil  one-half  hour  and  strain ;  use  this  juice 
for  the  canning,  or  if  making  pie,  pour  the  juice  thus 
made  over  the  pitted  cherries. 

For  fruits  or  vegetables  that  require  long  cooking, 
boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  and  put  in  the  fireless 
cooker  over  night ;  in  the  morning  boil  again  for  a  few 
minutes  and  can  or  bottle. 

Nearly  all  fruits  may  be  packed  into  jars  raw,  peeled 
or  unpeeled,  covered  with  hot  syrup  sweetened  to  tasie 
and  boiled  in  the  jars  for  half  an  hour  or  little  better 
after  the  method  of  the  canned  corn.  They  may  also  be 
steamed  or  baked  in  the  jars.  Even  baked  squash  may 
be  scraped  out  of  the  shell  and  put  up  in  this  way. 

CANNED  PLUMS 

The  large  plums  are  canned  as  above,  except  prick 
with  a  fork  to  prevent  bursting,  but  the  little  damson 
and  the  wild  plum  should  be  boiled  about  three  minutes 
in  water  with  a  little  baking  soda  and  then  lifted  with  a 
wire  spoon  or  long-handled  skimmer  into  the  syrup 
and  proceed  as  above,  only  cook  about  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

TIME  FOR  COOKING  FRUITS 

Those  requiring  five  to  eight  minutes  are,  cherries, 
raspberries,  blackberries,  ripe  currants,  gooseberries, 
strawberries,  peaches  quartered  or  halved,  whortleberries 
(blue  or  huckleberry),  large  plums,  rhubarb  (vegetable), 
and  sour  apples  quartered,  ten  minutes.  Those  requiring 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes  are,  small  sour  pears,  whole, 
and  Siberian  crab  apples. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  175 

Apples  may  be  mixed  sour  and  sweet.  For  pickling 
purposes,  Talmon  sweet  apples  are  the  best. 

Siberian  crabs  are  very  nice  canned  whole  or  quartered 
and  unpeeled,  or  cut  out  the  best  pieces  of  those  used  for 
jelly  and  put  up  with  a  syrup  made  of  half  vinegar  and 
water.     Excellent  steamed. 

Ripe  currants  are  improved  greatly  by  taking  off  the 
little  dark  ends  as  well  as  the  stems,  but  it  hardly  pays 
for  the  time  required  to  do  it.  They  are  also  very  nice 
left  right  on  the  stem  and  a  few  spices  added,  but  must 
be  handled  very  gently.  For  making  jelly,  stems  may 
be  left  on,  simmering  the  clusters  just  as  they  are.  Green 
currants  are  nice  spiced  or  are  very  nice  canned  for 
pies. 

Canned  plums  are  nice  in  winter  time  put  in  a  deep 
pie  plate  lined  with  biscuit  dough  and  turned  over  to- 
wards the  center,  leaving  a  slight  opening  and  baked  in 
rather  hot  oven. 

CANNED  GRAPES 

Separate  skin  from  pulp  after  washing  well ;  put  skins 
in  the  preserving  pan  or- kettle  which  contains  a  little  hot 
water  or  syrup  to  start  them  and  put  the  pulps  in  another 
kettle  and  boil  about  five  minutes,  then  strain  on  to  the 
skins  and  rub  well  through  the  gravy  strainer.  This  re- 
moves all  the  seeds  very  quickly  and  easily.  Add  sugar 
(say  if  going  to  have  five  quarts  of  fruit  finished)  about 
nine  or  ten  cups.  Boil  all  together  slowly  twenty  or 
thirty  minutes  and  can.  Excellent  mixed  with  elder- 
berry, using  less  sugar.  Cook  the  elderberry  with  the 
pulp  and  strain. 

SPICED  GRAPES 

Very  rich  and  keep  well  as  jelly.  For  a  ten  pound 
basket  of  grapes,  use  10  pounds  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  vin- 
egar,   2    teaspoonfuls    of    cinnamon,    2    teaspoonfuls 


176  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

(scant)  of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  allspice,  Yz  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ginger. 

Separate  pulp  from  skin  as  above  and  boil  pulp  about 
five  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  gravy  strainer  or  flour 
sieve.  Mix  all  together  and  boil  slowly  till  it  jells  (about 
twenty  minutes  or  better).  Put  up  in  glasses  as  you 
would  jelly.  The  ground  spices  are  meant.  Gooseber- 
ries, crabs,  black  currants,  etc.,  may  be  spiced  nearly 
the  same,  leaving  out  the  vinegar  or  using  very  little. 

CANNED  TOMATOES 

Canned  tomatoes  are  the  most  valuable  for  they  can  be 
used  for  so  many  purposes,  as  gravies,  soups,  etc. 

Select  tomatoes  just  ripe  or  nearly  ripe,  but  not  over- 
ripe. Pour  scalding  water  over  them  and  let  stand  about 
a  half  minute,  covered,  then  drain  ofif  water  and  put  on 
a  dipper  or  two  of  cold  water  to  cool  them,  then  skin, 
cutting  oii*  blemishes  and  digging  out  the  little  green 
part  where  stems  join.  Put  in  preserving-  utensil  with 
good  round  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each  quart,  or  for  four 
one  quart  cans,  three  teaspoonfuls  is  a  good  proportion. 
Break  a  few  of  the  tomatoes  for  juice  to  start  the  boil- 
ing. Boil  moderately  till  tomatoes  are  well  heated  and 
quite  soft,  stir  lightly  two  or  three  times,  not  breaking 
the  tomatoes  more  than  can  be  helped,  then  with  a  wire 
spoon  or  silver  fork,  lift  all  that  can  be  lifted  into  the 
heated  jars  which  should  be  nearly  three-quarters  full. 
Now  take  the  remaining  juice  and  press  through  a  gravy 
strainer  or  flour  sieve,  into  a  kettle  with  a  nozzle,  keep- 
ing both  kettles  on  stove  while  doing  this,  then  stir  and 
pour  into  the  cans,  filling  to  overflowing.  This  method 
removes  about  half  or  more  of  the  seeds.  Then  follow 
directions  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter,  for  the  care 
of  cans.  If  pressed  for  time,  start  with  a  little  salted 
boiling  water,  and  after  wiping  carefully,  cook  skins  and 
all,  breaking  the  large  ones  so  as  to  get  them  in  the  can. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  177 

When  the  time  comes  to  use  them,  the  skins  can  easily 
be  picked  out  with  a  toothpick  or  silver  fork.  No  harm 
is  done  if  a  few  do  stay  in.  Many  recipes  will  be  found 
throughout  the  book  for  the  use  of  canned  tomatoes.  If 
any  juice  is  left,  season  and  boil  down  for  catsup. 

STRING  BEANS 

(The  corn  recipe  may  also  be  used  for  these,  filling 
the  cans  with  cold  sterile  water  after  packing.) 

Simmer  for  about  a  half  hour  if  beans  are  very  tender 
or  two  hours  if  tough,  in  slightly  salted  water  and  follow 
rules  for  care  of  cans.  The  tough  strings  should  be  re- 
moved. Parboiling  for  about  five  minutes  in  baking 
soda  water  before  putting  in  the  salted  water,  removes 
the  beany  taste. 

Soaked  all  night  in  salt  water,  then  cooked  in  another 
water  till  tender,  then  lift  into  the  fruit  cans  and  cover 
with  a  hot  syrup  of  half  water  and  vinegar,  a  little  sugar 
and  mixed  whole  spice.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain  and 
reheat  syrup  or  use  fresh. 

CORN 

Either  for  canning  or  cooking  use  as  quickly  after 
picking  as  possible,  as  it  loses  its  sweetness. 

It  is  most  difficult  to  can  and  yet  easy  after  a  little 
practice.  It  is  cheaper  to  buy  the  best  grade  by  the 
dozen  if  one  has  to  buy  it.  Sterilize  jars,  covers  and 
rubbers  (rubbers  must  be  new).  Cut  corn  from  cob  raw 
and  pack  into  jars  as  tight  as  it  can  be  packed,  using  a 
pounder  of  some  sort,  then  put  on  rubbers  and  covers 
and  tighten  well. 

Put  three  or  four  thicknesses  of  old  white  cloth  in  the 
bottom  of  the  wash  boiler  or  very  large  kettle,  cover  cans 
well  with  cold  water  after  placing  in  boiler  (pack  any 
way)  and  boil  steady  for  four^  hours.  (Fuel  may  be 
saved  by  covering  the  boiler  with  cozies  or  old  towels  and 
lower  gas.)    Then  lift  and  tighten  again.    Let  get  cold 


178  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

and  wrap  each  can  well  with  newspapers ;  pack  tightly  in 
box  and  put  in  cellar.  It  is  not  so  white  as  the  bought 
canned  corn,  but  is  delicious.  Merely  heat  and  season 
with  a  little  milk  when  ready  to  eat.  Be  sure  to  turn  the 
filled  cans  of  corn  upside  down  and  rub  edge  of  cover 
where  it  fastens  with  soap  (softened  by  heat)  or  putty, 
nr  use  paraffin  (if  paraffin,  put  on  while  hot  and  again 
when  cold),  as  it  must  be  absolutely  air  tight.  It  takes 
about  15  to  18  ears  to  fill  a  one  quart  can.  This  is  a 
safe  method  for  nearly  all  vegetables. 

SAUERKRAUT 

Cut  the  cabbage  fine,  with  potato  or  cabbage  cutter, 
leaving  out  the  stump,  using  a  stone  crock,  highly  glazed 
to  pack  it  in.  First  put  in  a  layer  of  common,  coarse 
salt  over  the  bottom  of  the  jar,  about  one-quarter  of  an 
inch  deep,  then  a  layer  of  cabbage  five  or  six  inches  deep, 
then  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  packing  each 
layer  firmly  with  a  potato  masher  (wooden),  each 
time.  Repeat  the  process  until  wathin  six  inches  of  the 
top,  then  adding  the  two  tablespoons  of  salt  at  the  last, 
covering  the  whole  wnth  t\vo  or  three  layers  of  large 
cabbage  leaves,  using  a  white  cloth  doubled'  two  or 
three  times  over  the  cabbage  leaves,  and  weighing  the 
whole  down  with  a  heavy  plate  and  a  good  sized  clean 
rock.     Keep  skimmed  carefully. 

Care  should  be  taken  not  to  use  too  much  salt,  as  this 
prevents  fermentation.  Likewise,  every  time  kraut  is 
taken  out  the  cloth  must  be  rinsed  and  plate  and  stone 
thoroughly  washed  in  clear  water.  This  takes  the  place 
of  skimming.  Very  good  cooked  with  spare  ribs,  beef, 
bacon,  frankforts,  a  little  salt  pork  or  by  itself,  flavored 
with  butter  or  dripping.    Very  nice  raw.    Do  not  wash. 

BOTTLED  CIDER 

Take  good,  sweet  cider,  or  wait  till  it  just  begins  to 
ferment.     Put  on  the  stove,  skim  thoroughly  while  heat- 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  17'9 

ing  to  remove  all  pumice,  heat  to  boiling  point,  but  it 
must  not  boil.  Pour  in  bottles  or  jugs  and  seal  while 
hot.  Two  or  three  raisins  in  each  bottle  or  jug  flavor  it 
nicely.     Good  for  colds. 

Raw  cider  may  be  bottled  after  racking  once  a  week 
for  four  weeks ;  seal  well  and  lay  bottles  on  their  sides 
in  sawdust.  Never  use  preservatives.  Avoid  them  as 
you  would  patent  medicines  and  soothing  syrups. 

RED  CABBAGE 

'Cut  fine  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  let  stand  for  forty- 
eight  hours.  Drain  and  pour  over  it  hot  vinegar,  flav- 
ored with  black  or  white  pepper ;  some  add  a  little  ginger. 
Seal  if  put  up  to  keep. 

Red  cabbage  is  nice  ci^t  up  fine  and  stewed  two  hours 
very  slowly  in  a  little  vinegar  and  dripping.  Season  and 
serve. 

CITRON 

Boil  citron  which  has  been  peeled  and  cut  in  dice  or 
small  pieces  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  for  about  one-half 
hour,  then  drain  and  put  into  syrup  as  other  fruit,  and 
boil  till  tender  or  rather  transparent.  Flavor  strongly 
with  sliced  lemon  or  to  taste. 

WATERMELON 

Can  the  same  as  citron,  excepting  ginger  root  flavors 
it  better  than  lemon  and  very  little  of  it.  The  rind  of 
ripe  melons  only  is  used,  removing  all  green  parts  and 
cutting  in  pieces  two  or  three  inches  long.  Boil  only 
about  five  minutes  in  a  very  weak  solution  of  salt 
water,  then  proceed  as  with  citron,  or  steam  and  cover 
with  hot  syrup. 

APPLE  BUTTER 

This  is  simply  made  by  boiling  down  sweet  cider  and 
apples.  Children  like  it  on  bread.  It  is  a  nice  sauce  for 
supper  and  often  serves  as  fruit  for  breakfast.     It  can  be 


180  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

kept  in  stone  jars.  Cheap  and  saves  butter,  though  not 
a  good  substitute  for  butter  unless  used  with  meat,  as  the 
system  must  have  its  proper  amount  of  fat. 

JELLIES 

All  jellies  are  made  by  the  same  method  or  rather  can 
be  made  the  same  way.  It  is  easier  to  make  jelly  in  clear 
weather  than  on  a  dark  and  cloudy  day ;  it  thickens  bet- 
ter, often  it  will  not  jell  till  the  next  day.  A  little  vin- 
egar added  will  help  to  thicken.  The  fruit  should  not 
be  so  very  ripe  and  the  skins  are  the  necessary  part. 
Peach  skins  can  be  mixed  with  apple  skins  and  make  a 
very  good  jelly. 

PROCESS 

Large  fruits  may  be  quartered;  currants  and  grapes 
may  be  boiled,  stems  and  all ;  Siberian  crabs  are  excel- 
lent for  jell  and  should  be  cooked  to  a  mush.  Wash  the 
fruit  very  clean  and  have  preserve  pan  very  clean ;  white 
porcelain  is  preferred.  Put  enough  water  on  fruit  to 
keep  from  burning.  Boil  till  quite  juicy.  Put  into  a 
very  clean  cheese  cloth  bag  and  place  so  it  will  drain, 
where  there  is  no  dust.  If  jell  is  wanted  very  clear, 
do  not  press  bag,  but  remove  the  juice  and  use  an- 
other receptacle,  then  press  bag  to  make  a  second 
quality  of  jell  which  is  not  so  clear  if  desired.  This 
bag  may  be  left  to  drain  all  night.  Put  juice  on  stove 
and  let  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  sugar  and  boil  ten 
minutes  more.  Put  in  glasses.  All  bad  in  the  fruit 
should  be  removed.  One  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of 
juice  is  a  nice  proportion  which  is  about  pint  for  pint,, 
which  is  better  measured.  Some  fruits  if  juice  is 
boiled  down  a  little,  do  not  require  quite  this  much 
sugar.  It  is  always  best  to  test  the  jelly  by  dropping 
a  little  on  a  very  cold  saucer.  Too  long  boiling  makes 
jelly  tough  and  leathery.    A  few  of  tRe  peach  stones 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  181 

added  to  peach  jelly  flavor  it  nicely.  A  jelly  rest  for 
draining  the  bag  may  be  made  with  four  pieces  of 
wood  to  stand  up  straight,  and  then  four  to  cross  the 
top,  nailed  to  the  others.  The  bag  can  be  fastened  to 
the  four  at  the  top  so  that  fruit  can  be  poured  in  with 
little  trouble.  Three  strips  of  each  will  do  instead 
of  four. 

The  covers  of  jelly  glasses  may  be  lined  with  par- 
affin paper. 

WILD  CRAB  APPLE  JELLY 

There  is  something  about  the  flavor  of  this  jell  that 
makes  it  a  favorite  with  everyone.  The  crabs  can  be 
put  in  the  cellar  and  jell  made  as  it  is  needed  in  the 
winter.  It  is  made  like  other  jelly  excepting  that  the 
crabs  are  nasty,  gummy  things  and  can  be  washed 
with  warm  suds  and  then  parboiled  a  few  minutes  in 
baking  soda  water  to  thoroughly  clean  and  remove 
some  of  the  awful  bitterness  from  the  skins.  Then 
put  on  in  clean  water  to  boil  and  proceed  as  with  other 
jells. 

A  few  of  these  wild  crabs  mixed  with  Siberian 
crabs,  make  a  very  nice  jell. 

JAMS  AND  MARMALADES 

Jams  are  usually  made  from  blackberries,  currants, 
raspberries  and  strawberries,  while  marmalades  are 
made  from  the  more  firm  fruit,  as  pineapples,  peaches, 
apricots,  etc.     Both  require  almost  constant  stirring. 

For  jam  some  wash  the  fruit  first  and  add  about  1 
large  coffee  cup  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  mashed  fruit. 
Boil  the  fruit  about  twenty  minutes  before  adding 
sugar,  then  boil  till  it  stays  together  on  a  cold  plate 
without  any  juice  gathering  around  it.  It  should 
look  dry. 


182  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Small  stone  jars  are  nice  for  it  and  should.be  sealed 
and  secured  as  any  fruit.  Writing  paper  dipped  in 
white  of  egg  is  an  old  fashioned  way  of  sealing  and 
one  that  is  very  good.  The  white  of  egg  acts  as  a 
glue  and  if  put  on  twice  on  each  jar,  it  is  pretty  safe. 
Some  dip  a  piece  in  brandy  and  cover  the  top  before 
sealing. 

Another  way  of  making  jam,  and  I  think  an  easier 
one,  is  to  cook  the  fruit  a  little  and  press  through  a 
colander  or  coarse  sieve  and  then  proceed  as  above. 
Gooseberries  make  nice  jam,  also  Siberian  crabs. 
There  is  very  little  difference  between  marmalade  and 
jam.  If  making  two  kinds  of  jelly,  one  may  mix  what 
is  left  in  the  bags  and  rub  through  strainer  and  make 
it  into  a  nice  jam  slightly  spiced. 

PEACH  MARMALADE 

Pare,  stone  and  weigh  the  fruit.  Boil  the  stones, 
not  all,  but  about  half,  in  enough  water  to  cover  well, 
strain.  Quarter  the  peaches  and  add  to  the  strained 
water.  Boil  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Add 
three  fourths  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit 
and  boil  five  to  ten  minutes  more.  Skim  and  add 
juice  of  one-third  of  a  lemon  or  less  to  each  pound 
of  fruit.  Boil  a  little  longer,  when  it  should  have  the 
appearance  of  a  smooth  paste.  Put  in  glass  jars  when 
nearly  cold.     Seal  as  other  fruit. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Cook  the  thin  rind  of  about  one-quarter  of  all  the 
oranges,  in  two  waters  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Strain. 
Grate  the  rind  of  another  quarter  of  them,  being 
careful  not  to  use  the  white  in  either  case.  Cut  all 
the  sections  of  the  fruit  up  fine,  letting  the  juice  drain 
upon  the  sugar.  If  sugar  is  not  melted,  then  add  a 
very  little  water.    Now  add  the  cut  or  chopped  fruit, 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  183 

the  boiled  skins  or  shreds  and  the  grated  rind.  Boil 
all  together  twenty  minutes  or  a  little  more.  When 
nearly  cold,  put  in  glasses  or  small  jars.     Seal. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE 

Boil  the  skins  in  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
Strain.  Boil  pulps  for  five  or  ten  minutes  and  press 
through  wire  sieve  or  gravy  strainer.  Mix  the  two 
juices;  to  five  quarts  of  this  add  three  quarts  of  sour' 
apples,  cut  fine,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  about 
fifteen  to  seventeen  cups  of  sugar.  Add  to  this  a  little 
bag  of  unground  spices  and  leave  boil  with  it  till 
spiced  to  taste.  Boil  one-half  hour  and  put  in  glasses 
or  small  jars.  Cover  or  seal  with  white  of  egg  and 
paper  or  paraffin. 

APPLE   MARMALADE 

Pare,  core  and  cut  fine.  To  each  pound  of  fruit, 
take  three-fourths  of  the  amount  of  sugar.  Boil 
slowly  till  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Put  away  same  as  other 
marmalades. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

Boil  one  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  in  a  porcelain  kettle, 
until  soft.  Press  them  through  a  sieve-  or  gravy 
strainer,  then  add  two  and  a  half  cups  vinegar,  one 
and  a  quarter  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper  and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprika.  If  desired,  leave  out  the  paprika 
and  use  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper.  Boil 
slowly,  stirring  frequently  till  it  is  reduced  to  almost 
half.  Bottle  very  firmly  and  keep  in  a  very  cold 
place.  Beer  bottles  are  nice  for  it  and  put  a  little  cir- 
cle of  paraffin  paper  under  the  stopper.  A  small 
pitcher  is  handy  to  pour  the  catsup  in  i£  no  funnel  is 
at  hand.     To  make  clear  catsup,  the  tomatoes  must 


184  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

be  cleaned  from  all  blemishes.  I  use  a  common 
breakfast  coffee  cup  for  measuring.  Green  tomatoes 
with  a  few  apple  skins  boiled  with  them  make  an 
excellent  catsup. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

Take  a  good  half  peach  basket  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  and  pour  boiling  water  over 
them.  Remove  the  skins  and  blemishes  and  cut  into 
rather  small  chunks  into  a  four-quart  porcelain  kettle. 
The  day  before  making,  wipe  and  remove  the  blem- 
ishes and  the  real  dark  green  part  of  the  skins  from 
eight  to  ten  medium  sized  green  tomatoes.  Slice  and 
put  to  soak  over  night  in  cold  water  with  very  little 
salt,  about  one  teaspoonful  to  two  quarts  of  water. 
Drain  through  colander  and  chop  in  chopping  bowl, 
not  very  fine.  Then  add  to  the  ripe  tomatoes.  Have 
ready  four  or  five  good  sized  onions  which  have  been 
sliced,  soaked  in  cold  water  and  brought  almost  to  a 
boil  in  another  cold  water  and  drained ;  then  chop,  but 
not  too  fine ;  they  may  be  chopped  with  tomatoes  if 
bowl  is  large  enough.  Now  add  1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  granulated  sugar  and  the  end  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful (say  one-eighth)  each  of  red  pepper,  paprika 
and  white  pepper ;  also  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of 
cloves  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  allspice.  This  makes 
the  kettle  very  full,  which  is  a  little  inconvenient  at 
first,  but  it  soon  boils  down.  Boil  for  a  long  time 
slowly  and  then  put  in  jars.  Pint  glass  fruit  jars  are 
very  nice  for  it. 

The  above  quantity  made  two  beer  bottles  full  (very 
hard  to  fill,  requiring  a  teaspoon  and  toothpick),  one 
pint  jar  full  and  half  another  pint  jar.  The  last  is  for 
immediate  use  but  the  others  must  be  put  away  as  any 
canned  goods — air  tight. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  185 

This  recipe  can  be  changed  to  suit  the  taste  and  con- 
venience for  the  use  of  materials  one  happens  to  have 
on  hand.  It  should  be  stirred  frequently  at  first  and 
more  often  towards  the  last,  as  the  more  it  boils  down 
the  more  liable  it  is  to  stick.  Half  ripe  tomatoes  make 
good  chili  sauce.  Green  tomatoes  make  excellent  chili 
sauce  also,  using  just  a  little  more  vinegar.  Aluminum 
kettles  are  best  but  only  few  people  have  them. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 

■  One-half  gallon  virjegar,  five  pounds  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  stick  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  allspice,  one-half 
cup  cloves.  Break  spices  with  rolling  pin  and  boil  all 
together  for  about  twenty  minutes;  then  strain  syrup 
before  adding  peaches.  The  peaches  can  be  heated 
through  in  the  syrup  the  same  as  for  canning,  or  they 
may  be  steamed  and  the  syrup  boiled  a  little  longer, 
then  poured  over  them.  Rub  the  peaches  with  a  coarse 
towel  or  hand  brush.  Insert  a  clove  or  two  in  each 
one.  This  recipe  for  syrup  can  be  used  for  other 
pickles. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

Stem  grapes,  wash  well  and  boil  till  they  are  easily 
mashed,  then  rub  through  colander.  Take  the  pulp 
that  has  been  put  through  the  colander  and  put  in  a 
clean  cheese  cloth  bag.  Press  but  very  little,  then  to 
three  cups  of  juice  take  one  cup  of  sugar  or  a  little  less 
if  grapes  are  not  very  sour.  Boil  about  five  or  ten  min- 
utes only  or  it  will  jell.  Fill  pint  jars  to  overflowing 
and  seal.  When  using  it,  dilute  one-half  or  two-thirds 
with  cold  water.  Very  good  and  a  very  refreshing 
drink  for  an  invalid  or  for  a  beverage  in  hot  weather. 
The  pulp  in  the  cheese  cloth  bag  can  be  made  into  jam. 
Black  currants  put  up  the  same  way  are  excellent  for 
drink. 


186  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  chopped,  four  pounds 
granulated  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of  cloves,  all- 
spice, nutmeg,  cinnamon,  two  pounds  seeded  raisins 
or  currants,  two  cups  vinegar,  one  lemon  chopped  fine, 
one-half  peck  of  apples,  if  desired.  Simmer  two  or 
three  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Put  in  fruit  cans 
and  seal.  Apples  or  any  fruit  may  be  added  to  the 
pies  when  making,  and  a  little  more  sugar.  This 
makes. about  five  or  six  quarts  without  the  apples.  It 
is  well  to  cut  the  tomatoes  in  two  and  let  stand  all 
night  in  cold  water  slightly  salted.  One  may  add  home 
made  wine,  if  desired.  Add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  water 
in  which  the  tomatoes  stand  all  night. 

MINCE   MEAT 

Two  pounds  lean  beef  (simmer  about  two  hours), 
one  pound  suet,  one  and  one-half  quarts  or  a  little  less 
of  chopped  apples,  three  cupfuls  of  seeded  raisins,  one 
cupful  of  currants,  one-half  pound  of  citron  shaved 
very  fine,  one-half  cupful  of  candied  lemon  and  orange 
peel  mixed  and  chopped  fine,  one-half  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses, one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  each  one  lemon  and  one  orange,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  cloves  and  all  spice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one-half  cupful  each 
of  brandy  and  sherry,  one  cupful  of  cider  (if  not  boiled 
use  the  hard),  one  pint  bottle  will  do  to  buy  the  last 
three  in,  mixing  together. 

Chop  the  beef  and  suet  very  fine  and  mix,  taking 
out  the  stringy  stuff  which  comes  to  the  top  while 
chopping.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients,  including  the 
liquor  the  meat  was  cooked  in,  which  will  be  only  a 
cup  or  tv/o,  and  simmer,  mixing  gently  while  sim- 
mering. When  well  heated  through,  put  in  a  well 
glazed  jar  or  fruit  cans.     It  should  stand  a  week  or 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  187 

two  to  blend  before  using.  Two  cups  of  hard  cider 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  liquor.  The  liquor  is 
meant  to  preserve  the  mince  meat,  not  for  flavoring. 
It  will  keep  six  or  eight  weeks  without  it  and  all  win- 
ter with  it.  This  much  will  make  ten  lar^e  pies  or 
fifteen  small  ones.  When  making  a  pie,  a  glass  of 
canned  fruit  may  be  added  or  some  apples  may  be 
sliced  thin  and  put  over  the  top  before  putting  on 
upper  crust.  This  is  easily  made  if  one  has  a  good 
food  chopper,  otherwise  it  takes  two  hours. 

DRIED   FRUITS 

In  dried  fruits,  the  nourishment  is  not  lost,  only  the 
water  has  been  removed.  Apples  are  simply  peeled 
and  sliced  and  put  in  the  sun  under  a  mosquito  netting, 
then  hung  in  bags  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Most 
of  other  fruits  are  partly  or  wholly  cooked,  some  in 
syrup  and  some  not^  then  drained  and  dried.  Figs 
are  cooked  in  a  syrup  then  dried,  which  is  what  we 
buy.  Cherries  and  citron  may  be  dried  or  candied  the 
same  as  figs.  Candied  orange  and  lemon  peel  should 
be  scraped  out  so  as  to  remove  most  of  the  white,  par- 
boiled about  five  minutes  in  weak  salt  water,  then  in 
a  strong  syrup  till  tender,  drained  and  dried  in  the 
warming  oven  for  two  or  three  days ;  these  are  nice 
for  cake  flavoring  and  other  things.  It  hardly  pays 
to  dry  them  as  quite  a  little  can  be  bought  for  five  or 
ten  cents.  The  dried  fruits  for  table  use,  no  matter 
whether  for  sauce  or  pie,  require  long,  slow  cooking. 
To  wash  them,  it  is  well  to  put  them  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  in  cold  water  for  about  half  an  hour  to  soften 
dirt  on  the  outside,  then  thoroughly  wash  and  simmer 
two  or  three  hours,  or  soak  all  night  after  washing, 
and  cook  in  the  same  water  they  were  soaked  in  for 
about  one  hour.     Sweeten  and  flavor. 


188  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

CANNED  AND  DRIED  PUMPKIN 

Dried  pumpkin  makes  very  nice  pies.  To  can  or 
dry,  boil  or  rather  simmer  till  almost  dry  and  dry  a 
little  further  in  a  slow  oven  as  one  would  for  pies, 
using  a  tiny  bit  of  salt  in  cooking.  Then  can  and  what 
is  left  to  be  dried  keep  stirring  occasionally  in  the 
oven  until  it  can  be  formed  into  patties  (about  two 
inches  square)  and  put  back  in  the  oven  in  a  dripping 
pan  for  two  or  three  days  till  these  are  very  dark, 
turning  occasionally.  Put  in  cheese  cloth  bags  and 
hang  above  the  stove  for  a  few  days.  Two  pieces  will 
make  a  pie.  It  will  keep  for  years.  For  pies  soak 
all  night  in  soft  water  or  very  fresh  milk,  just  enough 
to  soak  it  up.  Then  use  as  any  pumpkin.  The  easiest 
method  of  all  is  to  simply  cut  without  peeling,  boil  till 
tender,  then  with  knife  and  fork  peel  from  the  boiling 
kettle  and  drop  into  jars;  when  making  pies,  dry  out  a 
little  on  top  of  stove. 

PICKLES 

Pickles  are  very  simple  and  easy  to  put  up.  Most 
all  should  be  soaked  in  a  weak  solution  of  salt  water 
over  night;  that  is,  ripe  cucumbers,  watermelon  rind, 
string  beans,  little  cucumbers,  etc.  The  ripe  cucum- 
bers look  almost  like  the  watermelon  when  finished. 
Cut  the  ends  off  the  beans,  peel  and  clean  the  water- 
melon and  ripe  cucumbers,  steam  till  tender,  which 
only  takes  a  few  minutes  when  cozies  are  used.  Pack 
in  jars  and  cover  with  hot  vinegar  syrup.  If  wanted 
fancy,  follow  the  rule  for  pickled  peaches;  for  every 
xlay  use,  make  a  syrup  of  about  half  water  and  vinegar 
And  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  nearly  one 
^easpoonful  of  whole  mixed  spices  to  a  quart.  It  is 
well  to  let  the  jars  stand  till  they  shrink  and  then  fill 
to  overflowing  with  hot  syrup,  not  waiting  till  they 
are  entirely  cold.    The  little  cucumbers  may  be  cooked 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  189 

about  five  minutes  in  the  syrup  that  they  are  to  be  put 
in,  and  little  green  tomatoes  may  be  steamed  or  cooked 
in  the  syrup;  tomatoes  and  cucumbers  require  a  little 
stronger  syrup  than  other  vegetables  or  fruits.  The 
large  green  tomatoes  should  be  sliced  or  halved. 

All  of  the  vegetables  can  be  put  up  in  coarse  salt 
(even  watermelon),  adding  a  little  cold  brine,  if  neces- 
sary, when  the  crock  is  full ;  then  cover  with  clean 
white  cloth,  over  that  a  clean  board,  over  that  a  clean 
rock  to  keep  them  down,  and  on  top  of  the  jar  another 
clean  board  or  cover.  They  may  need  skimming  for 
two  or  three  days.  When  they  are  to  be  used,  they 
must  be  soaked  in  cold  water  a  day  or  two  and  then 
prepared  any  way  desired.  When  pickling  peppers, 
protect  the  hands  from  burning. 

Both  cucumbers  and  green  tomatoes  are  greatly  im- 
proved if  let  stand  24  hours  in  each  of  two  hot  brines  and 
also  another  34  hours  in  hot  vinegar  before  putting  up  in 
the  last  vinegar  which  may  be  flavored  as  one  desires. 
Simply  pour  the  hot  liquid  over  them  and  change  for 
fresh  the  next  morning.  Put  up  for  good  the  third  or 
fourth  day.  Some  use  cold  liquid  on  tomatoes.  Each 
vinegar  may  be  diluted. 


^  ^one 
i.ne  milk 


190  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


MILK 


Written  for  the  author  by  Miss  Angeline  Wood,  Teacher  Do- 
mestic   Science,    Stout    Training    Schools, 
Menominee,  Wisconsin. 

Milk  is  one  of  our  most  valuable  foods.  It  is  a  per- 
fect food  for  young  children,  as  it  contains  all  the  ele- 
ments necessary  for  the  nourishment  of  the  child.  For 
invalids  it  is  almost  a  necessity,  as  it  gives  nourish- 
ment in  an  easily  digested  form.  In  the  diet  of  grown 
persons,  milk  is  a  valuable  addition,  although  it  needs 
some  starchy  food  with  it  to  make  a  perfect  diet. 

The  composition  of  milk  averages  about  three  per 
cent  proteid,  four  per  cent  fat,  five  per  cent  carbo- 
hydrate, one  per  cent  mineral  matter  and  eighty-seven 
per  cent  water.  The  proteid  is  the  casein  or  curd 
that  forms  when  milk  thickens.  This  substance  helps 
to  build  up  the  muscular  tissues  of  the  body.  The 
fat  is  in  the  cream  that  rises  to  the  surface,  and  the 
carbo-hydrate  is  the  milk  sugar.  The  fat  and  sugar 
furnish  heat  and  energy  to  the  body.  There  is  also 
present  in  the  milk  a  small  quantity  of  mineral  salts 
which  are  needed  in  the  body  principally  to  aid  in 
forming  the  teeth  and  bones. 

As  milk  is  of  so  much  value  in  the  diet,  it  is  quite 
necessary  that  we  should  know  how  best  to  keep  it. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  easily  contaminated  of  foods, 
spoiling  very  quickly  unless  properly  cared  for. 

The  spoiling  of  milk  is  caused  by  the  bacteria  or 
germs  which  get  into  it,  and  as  it  is  an  excellent  food 
'•niqterial  for  them,  they  grow  and  multiply  very  rap- 
to  overiA/[ilk  also  absorbs  bad  odors  very  easily,  so  that 
are  entirely  -cary  to  keep  it  where  the  air  is  sweet  and 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  191 

clean.  It  is  often  contaminated,  too,  by  dirt  and  filth 
getting  into  it  from  the  cows'  udders  during  the  pro- 
cess of  milking  or  by  dust  from  the  milker's  clothing. 

If  disease  germs  get  into  the  milk,  they  often  cause 
serious  illness  among  those  using  the  milk.  Children, 
especially,  are  very  susceptible  to  the  effects  of  impure 
milk.  Typhoid  fever,  tuberculosis,  and  other  germ  dis- 
eases are  frequently  traced  to  the  milk  supply. 

If  we  would  have  clean,  pure  milk,  we  must  begin 
the  care  of  it  with  the  cow  and  the  cow  stable.  The 
cow  must  be  kept  in  a  clean,  light,  well-ventilated  barn 
or  stable,  and  have  good  food  and  pure  water  so  that 
she  may  be  kept  in  good  health.  Only  the  milk  from 
perfectly  healthy  cows  should  ever  be  used  as  food  for 
human  beings.  Milk  from  cows  that  are  out  of  condi- 
tion in  any  way  or  have  any  disease,  is  unfit  for  food, 
as  it  is  likely  to  cause  serious  illness  if  used.  A  cow 
should  never  be  whipped  or  worried. 

The  cow  should  be  groomed  every  day  to  keep  her 
skin  in  a  healthy  condition  and  also  to  keep  her  clean 
so  as  to  prevent  any  filth  from  falling  into  the  milk. 
Likewise,  the  one  doing  the  milking  should  be  very 
careful  to  have  his  hands  and  clothing  clean.  In  the 
modern  dairies  of  today  where  everything  is  kept  in 
a  strictly  sanitary  condition,  the  barns  are  kept  very 
clean  and  the  cows  clean  and  well  groomed.  The 
milkers  wear  fresh  white  suits  and  go  to  the  milking 
with  clean  hands.  The  milk  is  drawn  into  covered 
pails  and  then  taken  from  the  barn  immediately  and 
quickly  cooled.  Every  possible  precaution  is  taken  to 
have  the  milk  perfectly  clean  and  pure. 

In  order  to  have  pure  milk,  it  must  be  clean,  free 
from  dirt  of  any  kind,  and  as  free  as  possible  from  bac- 
teria. This  condition  can  only  be  had  by  keeping  the 
cows  clean  and  in  good  health,  having  the  milking  done 
under  sanitary  conditions,  and  by  keeping  the  milk 
properly. 


192  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Even  under  the  best  conditions  there  will  be  a  few 
bacteria  present  in  the  milk.  The  temperature  of 
freshly  drawn  milk  is  the  most  favorable  for  the  rapid 
growth  of  these  bacteria,  so  in  order  to  keep  them  from 
developing,  the  milk  should  be  cooled  rapidly  imme- 
diately after  milking,  to  as  near  40  degrees  F.  as  pos- 
sible. 

The  pails  used  for  milking  should  be  perfectly  clean. 
To  keep  them  clean  they  must  be  thoroughly  washed 
with  hot  soap  suds  and  then  scalded  with  boiling  water 
or  steam  and  turned  down  to  dry  in  a  clean  place,  free 
from  dust.  All  the  dishes  used  in  the  home  for  milk 
should  be  carefully  scalded  every  time  they  are 
washed.  It  is  well  to  rinse  straining  cloths  and  all  milk 
utensils  with  cold  water  before  using  hot  soap  suds. 

In  the  home,  the  milk  must  be  kept  in  clean  dishes, 
set  in  a  cool  place,  free  from  dust  or  odor.  If  kept  in 
a  refrigerator,  do  not  put  it  near  any  strong  smelling 
food.  Keep  the  milk  on  the  bottom  shelf  and  the 
other  foods  above. 

Pasteurized  milk  is  milk  that  has  been  heated  to  a 
temperature  of  about  170  degrees  F.,  then  quickly 
cooled.  This  heating  destroys  practically  all  the  germ 
life  in  the  milk  and  insures  its  keeping  a  little  longer. 
This  method  is  not  a  guard  against  filth  in  the  milk, 
but  it  renders  harmless  the  germs  that  are  present. 
It  may  be  used  in  the  home  where  one  has  reason  to 
doubt  the  cleanliness  of  the  milk  supply. 

People  who  have  to  depend  on  the  city  milkman 
ought  to  take  measures,  if  possible,  to  find  out  if  the 
dairy  from  which  the  milk  comes  is  kept  in  the  proper 
sanitary  condition.  If  one  is  careful  to  buy  from  a  re- 
liable dealer  one  can  be  pretty  certain  of  getting  a  good 
quality  of  milk.  But  there  is  so  much  dishonesty 
among  dealers  and  so  much  carelessness  and  ignorance 
among  dairymen  that  it  becomes  necessary  for  the 
consumer  to  protect  himself. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  193 


FOODS 


Ouf  mental  and  physical  ability  to  do  our  day's  work 
depends  largely  upon  the  food  we  eat  and  wholly  upon 
the  food  we  eat,  air  we  breathe,  water  we  drink  and 
the  clothes  we  wear,  or  rather  the  way  we  wear  our 
clothes,  giving  the  organs  plenty  of  movement  and 
protection. 

If  there  is  only  a  given  amount  of  money  in  a  family 
to  be  used  for  the  table^  it  should  be  spent  wisely  and 
the  food  properly  cooked  or  the  working  members  will 
suffer  for  the  need  of  strength  and  clearheadedness, 
while  the  children  will  not  develop  in  mind  and  body 
as  they  should,  so  that  the  buying  and  preparation  of 
food  is  a  serious  and  responsible  duty  on  the  part  of 
the  housekeeper. 

To  be  successful,  one  needs  a  little  knowledge  of 
the  chemistry  of  cooking,  which  is  given  in  a  simple 
way  throughout  this  book.  A  good  household  maga- 
zine will  give  more,  so  that  anyone  can  accomplish  a 
great  deal  with  a  little  thought  and  study. 

Food  is  taken  into  the  body  to  build  up  and  repair 
tissue  and  to  generate  energy. 

Foods  may  be  divided  into  five  classes,  or  principles, 
namely: 

1.    Water. 

Phosphate  of  Lime. 


2.     Inorganic  Salts-' 


Carbonate  of  Lime.    Salt  (Chloride  of  So- 
dium). 
Iron. 

Phosphate  of  Magnesium. 
Soda. 

Salts  of  Potash. 
3     Proteids  Albumens  (White  of  Eggs). 

■  (Produce  flesh)  |  ^as^^^s  (Curd  of  sour  Milk). 

13 


194  THE   HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK 

f  White  of  Eggs. 
I   Casein  of  Milk. 
I   Gluten  of  Grains. 
Nitrogenous. . .  -i   Fibrin  of  Meat. 

I  Legumen —  Pease, 
Beans,    Lentils, 
t      etc. 

r  Butter. 
I   Olive  Oil. 

4.  Fats J   Cotton  Seed  Oil. 

(Produce  heat)  ^Lard^^^^^^.^^ 

I   Butterine. 
I  Cream. 

5.  Starches f  Starch — Beans,  Pease,  Lentils. 

(Produce        ■'  Sugar. 
[Energy]        ]  Gum. 
Work)  I  Dextrin. 

The  average  working  man  requires  about  four  and 
a  half  ounces  proteid,  two  ounces  fat,  seventeen  and  a 
half  ounces  starch,  per  day;  one-third  of  the  proteid 
should  come  from  animals.  If  no  other  proteid  is 
taken  but  lean  meat,  the  average  man  requires  about 
nine  ounces;  if  cheese  alone,  five  and  one-half  ounces; 
eggs,  about  seven  good  sized;  including  waste. 

Women  and  children  require  less  of  the  principles 
than  men.  It  is  better  to  overdo  proteid  than  not  to 
have  enough.  Though  meat  is  not  essential  to  health, 
it  does  increase  bodily  vigor. 

We  cannot  substitute  one  food  for  another  to  repair 
the  loss  of  that  food  in  the  system,  as  fats  for  proteids. 

When  fats  are  oxidized  or  burned  in  the  system, 
they  produce  more  energy  than  an  equal  amount  of 
the  other  foods.  As  they  generate  heat,  large  amounts 
are  used  in  cold  countries.  The  starches  also  generate 
heat.  Cellulose  (cell  structure)  is  found  to  quite  an 
extent  in  the  starches,  of  which  but  little  is  digested, 
and  what  is  digested,  or  absorbed,  must  first  be  con- 
verted into  sugar. 

Though  not  digested,  a  little  of  it  is  good  to  give 


THE  HOME-MAKING   COOK  BOOK  195 

the  bowels  sufficient  exercise,  but  the  housewife  must 
remove  as  much  as  she  can  or  too  much  will  cause 
irritation  in  the  bowels  and  too  much  waste  of  undi- 
gested food. 

The  nourishment  or  value  of  a  food  depends  greatly 
upon  the  kind  and  proportion  of  its  foodstuffs  or  com- 
position. The  digestibility  and  value  is  greatly  influ- 
enced by  proper  methods  of  cooking.  There  is  waste 
that  one  is  not  responsible  for,  as  the  system  can  di- 
gest only  a  percentage  of  the  materials  taken,  owing 
to  the  interference  of  cellulose  and  other  things,  and 
she  must,  therefore,  feed  a  greater  amount  than  the 
systerfl  calls  for  to  allow  for  this  waste.  This  need 
not  be  a  hard  study,  for  just  a  little  observation  of  the 
spirits  of  the  family  will  tell  her  whether  she  is  feed- 
ing correctly  or  not.  Everyone  feeling  happy  and  am- 
bitious is  a  very  good  proof  of  being  fed  properly.  They 
can  wreck  the  system  in  many  other  ways  besides  eat- 
ing, so  the  housewife  must  not  blame  herself  unreason- 
ably always  for  indisposition  on  their  part. 

Enough  of  food  should  be  taken  to  satisfy  the  appe- 
tite and  still  not  cause  distress,  hence  the  foods  should 
be  properly  combined.  Were  one  to  eat  potatoes 
alone,  he  would  take  many  times  as  much  starch  as 
needed  and  not  a  sufficient  amount  of  fat,  as  they  con- 
tain but  a  small  percentage.  One  thus  fed,  lacks  en- 
ergy and  feels  a  heaviness  and  stupidness,  too  much 
starch  producing  indigestion  from  too  much  fermenta- 
tion, though  digestion  is  due  to  fermentation. 

Potatoes,  beans,  oatmeal  and  corn  are  the  cheapest 
foods.  Butter  or  gravy  should  be  eaten  with  bread 
to  get  the  proportion  of  fat  to  starch  as  nearly  correct 
as  possible. 

Fats  should  be  taken  into  the  system  only  in  a  finely 
divided  state ;  butter  is  the  easiest  digested  of  all  fats. 
Only  rancid  butter  causes  dyspepsia.    Butter  contains 


196  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

the  same  two  fats  (olein  and  margarine)  as  the  oleo- 
margarine, but  has  other  fats  in  addition.  Olein  is 
really  the  easiest  fat  to  digest  and  butter  has  a  goodly- 
percentage. 

Oleomargarine  is  made  from  the  best  beef  fat  and 
when  not  adulterated,  is  one  of  the  healthy  foods  not 
equal  to  the  best  grade  of  butter  but  better  than  the 
poor.  The  prejudice  towards  it  is  not  owing  to  the 
fat  it  contains  but  to  some  of  the  unclean  places  of 
making  and  unclean  adulteration.  However,  there  are 
some  very  good  and  clean  grades  and  hard  to  detect 
from  good  butter. 

Butterine  is  a  mixture  of  beef  and  hog  fat  oil.  Only 
the  best  pieces  of  fat  can  be  used  for  either.  These 
give  the  workingman  a  -chance  to  get  his  proper 
amount  of  fat  necessary  for  health. 

Lard  is  very  hard  to  digest  but  of  good  value  to 
those  who  can  digest  it.  It  is  so  hard  to  buy  good 
lard  that  it  is  safer  for  the  housewife  to  buy  leaf  lard 
and  try  it  out  for  herself.  Most  everyone  can  use  a 
little.  People  working  out  of  doors  can  easily  use  it 
without  it  causing  distress,  but  invalids  never. 

Cottolene  is  a  valuable  vegetable  oil,  easier  digested 
but  not  so  rich  as  lard.  Half  each  of  cottolene  and 
beef  fat  makes  a  very  good  shortening  for  every  day 
use.  Flour  and  meal  are  perishable  (readily  absorbing 
moisture,  and,  therefore,  keep  covered),  and  should 
only  be  bought  in  small  quantities.  These  used  to  be 
stored  in  large  quantities  for  winter,  but  the  milling 
process  is  not  the  same  now.  More  is  given  under 
"Bread."  Meat  differs  very  much  in  composition  in 
different  animals  and  different  parts  of  the  same  ani- 
mal. The  lean  meats  contain  from  15  to  20  per  cent 
proteids,  the  whole  egg  12>4  proteids,  cheese  25  to  30, 
dried  codfish  30,  potatoes  about  75  per  cent  water  and 
2  per  cent  proteid,  not  even  ^  of  1  per  cent  of  fat,  20 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  197 

per  cent  starch  and  very  little  cellulose  and  minerals. 
Scientists  have  made  investigations  and  found  how 
much  and  what  kind  of  food  is  used  by  and  needed  for 
the  system  while  working,  how  much  is  needed  when 
not  working  and  how  much  of  the  body  itself  is  used 
up  when  no  food  is  taken,  as  in  starvation,  A  man, 
not  working,  can  sustain  life  and  fight  off  starving  dis- 
eases on  35  ounces  of  good,  wholesome  bread  per  day, 
and  a  necessary  amount  of  good  water.  It  is  as  neces- 
sary for  the  housekeeper  to  know  how  much  food  is 
needed  and  what  proportion  for  each,  as  for  the  farmer 
to  know  how  much  he  should  lay  up  for  winter  use 
for  his  stock,  without  waste,  and  ^till  keep  his  stock 
thriving.     (The  waste  in  digestion  cannot  be  helped). 

Nature  furnishes  us  with  two  foods  of  most  im- 
portance— air  and  water — which  need  but  little  atten- 
tion on  the  part  of  the  housekeeper — any  more  than 
to  keep  them  pure  and  fresh  and  see  that  each  gets  an 
abundance  of  both. 

It  is  necessary  to  study  really  only  the  three  classes 
— proteids,  fats  and  starches — and  in  making  up  the 
daily  menus,  to  remember  the  body  requires  those 
three  in  proper  proportion.  Knowing  this,  it  is  then 
necessary  to  fix  or  flavor  them  in  a  way  that  will  tickle 
the  palate  and  stimulate  the  appetite.  Having  bought 
wisely,  she  must  cook  wisely,  so  as  to  get  all  the  food 
value  out  of  the  food  and  also  learn  to  make  palatable 
dishes  from  the  leftovers.  Not  a  teaspoonful  of  food 
should  be  thrown  away.  The  water  and  the  minerals 
seem  to  take  care  of  themselves. 

The  part  of  the  fats  which  are  not  oxidized  or  burned 
are  stored  as  fat  for  the  body.  Making  soups  is  one 
good  way  of  getting  food  value  for  a  little  money. 
Much  can  be  saved  in  making  hash,  stews,  meat  loaf, 
patties  and  many  other  things. 

The  thrifty  housewife  will  not  throw  away  even 


198  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

one  teaspoonful  of  anything  clean,  and  of  nutritious 
value.  The  cream  pitchers,  milk  bottles  and  pans 
can  be  rinsed  with  a  tiny  bit  of  cold  water,  loosening 
any  that  may  have  gathered  on  the  side  with  a  silver 
knife,  pour  into  a  jelly  glass  with  a  cover,  and  use  for 
baking.  The  gravy  of  roasts  and  steaks  can  be  rinsed 
from  spider,  dripping  pan,  platter  or  dish  with  a  little 
hot  water  and  saved  in  some  little  receptacle  for  hash, 
meat  loaves,  etc.  It  contains  such  valuable  nutriment 
that  it  is  well  worth  the  trouble  to  save  it.  From  drip- 
ping pan  and  spider  it  should  be  saved  immediately, 
as  standing  discolors  it.  Many  are  ill  nourished  which 
could  be  remedied  to  a  certain  extent  by  saving  these 
things.  On  can  manage  so  that  they  won't  even  throw 
away  a  crumb  of  bread,  for  these  have  so  many  uses. 
Two  nice  clean  shoe  boxes,  with  covers,  or  better 
still,  two  large  covered  tin  cans  or  quart  pails,  starting 
a  fresh  one  every  three  or  four  days  and  air  the  other, 
are  good  receptacles  for  dry  bread  and  crumbs.  The 
meat  grinder  is  fine  for  preparing  crumbs  for  breading 
croquettes,  meats,  etc.  Not  possessing  the  grinder, 
roll  with  a  rolling  pin  or  round  bottle  or  grate.  Enough 
can  be  made  at  once  for  a  week  or  more  and  kept  sep- 
arate from  the  other  crumbs,  in  a  tight  baking  powder 
can. 

Milk  is  such  a  valuable  food  that  if  one  can  only 
afford  a  pint  a  day,  get  that  pint  and  let  the  children 
have  at  least  a  tablespoonful.  Serve  it  in  little  wine- 
glasses in  its  fresh  state — boiling  lessens  the  nourish- 
ment. It  is  better  to  buy  only  a  pint  of  good  milk 
and  water  it  one's  self,  than  to  buy  three  pints  of  the 
cheap  milk,  not  knowing  what  is  in  it.  The  laws  are 
becoming  so  strict  that  it  is  getting  more  and  more 
clean  and  pure  so  that  we  can  use  it  without  scalding, 
as  it  should  be  used.  It  would  be  well  for  all,  could 
we  afford  it,  to  drink  at  least  two  glasses  of  good  milk 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  199 

each  day,  but  if  we  cannot  afford  it,  then  aim  to  get 
at  least  a  tablespoonful,  and  the  children  especially. 
When  there  is  a  "bottle"  baby,  its  milk  should  be  pre- 
pared in  the  five  or  six  bottles  and  not  mixed  with  the 
rest  or  disturbed.  If  one  has  not  the  money  for  baby's 
milk,  appeal  to  some  good  society  for  it.  It  is  unchar- 
itable and  cruel  to  let  the  baby  suffer  and  the  time 
might  come  when  one  can  return  the  goodness  of  the 
society  in  some  way,  or  help  some  other  p.oor  baby. 

With  both  baby  and  children,  beware  of  stunted 
bodies^  stunted  minds  and  stunted  health  through  life. 

In  having  to  manage  with  little  money,  the  children 
should  be  taught  intelligently  and  kindly  the  circum- 
stances, and  they  will  not  find  fault  with  the  wineglass 
of  milk  or  other  things  that  mother  is  doing  her  best 
with — that  is,  planning  and  cooking  to  give  all  the 
food  value  she  can  without  waste.  Make  them  inter- 
ested in  building  up  their  own  home,  which  should  be 
one  of  the  chief  aims  of  all ;  this  aids  building  of  char- 
acter, which  comes  first  and  results  in  healthy  minds 
and  bodies.  Though  they  may  be  irritable  at  times, 
they  will  understand  at  others. 

As  a  rule,  children  are  fed  too  much  solid  foods, 
overheating  the  blood  and  clouding  the  brain,  keeping 
heart  and  digestive  organs  always  under  the  highest 
strain,  and  never  rested.  The  digestive  organs  of  a 
child  require  more  rest  than  do  those  of  the  grown 
adult,  and  we  have  also  a  failing  of  not  allowing  pro- 
teid  enough,  either  for  ourselves  or  the  children — 
using  too  much  fat,  starch  and  cellulose. 

There  is  a  normal  demand  for  greater  frequency  in 
supply  of  food  for  children^  but  not  for  greater  quan- 
tity.    Quality  is  more  important  than  quantity. 

A  child's  health  should  be  considered  as  well  as  his 
character,  making  the  battle  of  life  he  is  so  soon  to 
enter  of  great  interest.    A  normal  man,  who  spends  a 


200  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

great  deal  of  time  in  the  fresh  air,  can  live  on  about 
five  pounds  of  food  daily  and  almost  two  pounds  of 
this  should  be  liquid  food.  It  has  been  found  that 
some  children  about  ten  years  of  age,  are  fed  seven 
and  a  half  to  nine  pounds  of  solid  food  per  day.  If 
children  need  food  between  meals,  it  should  be  at  reg- 
ular intervals  and  a  liquid  food  is  best.  Nothing  equals 
a  glass  of  good  milk,  even  good  skimmed  milk,  prop- 
erly cared  for,  is  of  great  value  to  the  system,  or  a 
piece  or  two  of  good,  homemade  candy  or  good  quality 
of  confectioner's,  and  plenty  of  water  is  very  often  all 
that  they  need.     Water  will  often  allay  hunger. 

Children  should  be  trained  to  like  and  eat  what  is 
good  for  them  and  not  let  their  tastes  become  finicky, 
which  makes  it  so  hard  for  them  in  later  years  and 
often  very  trying  for  others.  Use  neither  tyranny  nor 
indulgence  in  so  training  them. 

Common  salt  (chloride  of  sodium)  aids  in  digestion 
and  assimilation  of  food.  It  helps  to  keep  the  blood 
in  an  alkaline  state  (not  too  acid)  and  also  a  fluid 
state. 

Fruit  is  valuable  on  account  of  the  sugar  it  contains 
and  its  flavor  due  to  fruit  acids  with  the  sugar,  and 
can  be  used  to  disguise  things  we  do  not  like  and  still 
ought  to  have. 

Seasoning,  like  fruit,  is  of  great  value  in  making 
good,  plain  food  palatable,  thus  stimulating  the  appe- 
tite and  aiding  digestion,  but  like  all  other  good  things, 
must  be  used  with  discretion.  For  instance,  sugar  or 
too  much  cream  on  oatmeal  or  other  breakfast  food, 
is  not  good,  as  it  interferes  with  the  proper  digestion 
of  that  food,  while  taken  in  a  piece  of  candy  for  lunch 
or  with  a  light  dessert,  is  very  beneficial. 

Food  for  cold  lunch. — Many  working  men  and  chil- 
dren, mostly  in  country  schools,  carry  cold  lunch,  and 
it  means  much  to  their  success  to  have  the  lunch  as 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  201 

dainty  as  one  can.  No  man  or  child  wants  a  lunch 
from  a  basket  or  pail  that  smells  of  the  dinner  pail 
smell,  nor  bread  and  pie  soaked  with  pickles.  The  pail 
should  be  washed  as  particularly  as  a  milk  bottle  and 
left  open  all  night,  then  with  the  aid  of  some  good 
paraffin  paper  to  wrap  moist  things,  as  pudding,  salad, 
pie,  etc.,  and  a  couple  of  little  salve  jars  with  good 
covers,  from  the  druggist,  for  salt  and  cooked  fruit, 
and  many  little  dainties,  also  strips  of  pasteboard,  one 
can  pack  a  lunch  to  tempt  the  king.  A  bottle  with  a 
little  fruit  syrup  or  lemon  syrup  for  lemonade  or 
fruit  drink,  or  occasionally  cold  cofifee;  milk,  if  one 
can  afford  it,  is  excellent.  Always  have  food  real  cold 
before  packing  as  one  would  before  putting  in  the 
icebox.     _ 

WATER 

As  water  forms  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  weight 
of  our  bodies,  and  is  thrown  off  by  means  of  lungs, 
skin  and  excreta  (bowels  and  kidneys),  it  is  very  im- 
portant in  order  to  keep  the  system  in  its  fluid  and 
natural  condition,  to  drink  plenty  of  water,  at  least 
three  pints  a  day,  besides  what  our  food  contains.  It 
is  better  to  drink  it  between  meals,  though  a  little 
taken  moderately  at  our  meals  does  no  harm.  It  is  the 
means  of  carrying  all  the  nutriment  to  the  different 
parts  of  the  body  and  carrying  away  the  wastes,  so  it 
is  easy  to  see  nourishment  of  the  body  would  be  im- 
possible without  it;  even  the  nerves  are  benefitted, 
hence  very  good  for  nervous  people.  It  is  not  only  a 
carrier,  but  a  cleanser.  A  good  bowl  of  hot  water  or 
a  glass  of  cold  water  an  hour  before  breakfast  or  any 
meal  is  a  good  appetizer,  not  to  speak  of  the  number- 
less other  benefits. 

There  are  several  kinds  of  water  used  for  drinking 
purposes.     That  from  surface  wells  is  always  to  be 


202 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


suspicioned,  and  also  that  supplied  to  cities  and  towns 
from  rivers  and  lakes.  It  is  always  well  to  boil  it, 
which  drives  out  the  gases,  causing  a  flat  taste,  but 
if  cooled,  settled  and  poured  from  pitcher  to  pitcher 
in  the  open  air,  it  improves  the  taste.  Water  will  form 
in  the  body  itself  where  two  molecules  of  hydrogen 
come  in  contact  with  one  of  oxygen. 

Sterilized  water  is  water  well  boiled  and  if  used 
for  sterile  purposes,  must  be  kept  in  sterile  recepta- 
cles and  covered  with  sterile  covering.  Sterile  means 
perfectly  clean,  free  from  germs,  hence  it  must  not 
come  in  contact  with  the  hands  or  anything  not  sterile. 

For  albuminized  water  and  cinnamon  water,  see 
Drinks. 

Best  and  cheapest  foods — Oxygen  (fresh  air)  first, 
last  and  all  the  time,  day  and  night.  It  is  the  most 
important  constituent  for  the  support  of  life.  Next 
comes  plenty  of  water. 

Other  principles  of  foods  are  given  at  beginning  of 
chapters  and  with  some  of  the  recipes. 

Some  Foods  that  should  NEVER  be  found  on  the 

Table 


9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 


Underdone  Veal. 

Half   cooked   Cabbage. 

Cheese  (too  often.) 

Green  melons. 

Unripe  fruit. 

Suet  Pudding  (too  often) 

Must  be  well  done. 
Heavy  dumplings. 
Fried  things  saturated  in 

grease. 
Fried  hash. 
Too  much  pie. 
Underdone  Oatmeal. 
Leathery  fried  eggs. 
Heavy  breakfasts. 
Heavy  Biscuit. 


15.  Sour  bread. 

16.  Pork  (too  often.) 

17.  Too  much  bacon  in  sum- 

mer. 

18.  Fried  potatoes,  three  times 

a  day. 

Unless 
removed 
from  can 
and 
^  recooked. 

21.  Canned    fruit,    unless    re- 

cooked. 

22.  ■  Canned  goods  that  cannot 

be  recooked. 


19.  Canned  meats 

20.  Canned  fish 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


203 


Composition  of  a  Few  of  the  Common  Foods. 

Figures  are  only  approximate,  not  accurate. 


Wheat 

Rye 

Oatmeal. 

Corn 

Rice 

Buckwheat 

Pease,  Beans,  Lentils. 

Cocoa  Seed. 

Strawberries 

Salmon,  Fr 

Apples 

Bananas 

Beef,  lean 

Beef,  fat 

Beans  (navy)  

Beans  (Lima) 

Butter ^... 

Cheese 

Codfish  (fresh)  

Eggs  (uncooked) 

Milk 

Oysters 

Oranges 

Potatoes 

Potatoes  (Sweet)  ... 

Pork,  fat 

Pork,  lean 


Water. 

Fats." 

Proteids. 

Starches. 

Min- 
erals. 

13.5 

1.75 

12.5 

65 

1.8 

15 

1.75 

11 

*68 

1.75 

12 

5 

10 

157.75 

3 

13 

4.5 

10 

m 

1.5 

9.5 

2 

6 

§76 

1 

12.5 

1 

10 

§72 

2.5 

15 

1.5 

47 

24 
16 

49 

3.25 

90.4 

.6 

1 

7.4 

.6 

40.9 

8.9 

15.3 

.9 

84.6 

.5 

.4 

14.3 

.2 

75.3 

.6 

1.3 

22 

.8 

58.2 

11.1 

17.1 

.9 

44.9 

29.1 

16 

.8 

15.2 

1.6 

30 

50 

3.2 

68.5 

-    .7 

7.1 

22 

1.7 

11 

85 

1 

3 

31.6 

35.9 

28.8 

3.4 

72.4 

.5 

17 

73.7 

10.5 

13.4 

87 

4 

3.3 

5 

88.3 

1.3 

6 

3.3 

1.1 

86.1 

2 

8 

.5 

78.3 

1 

2.2 

20 

69 

.7 

1.8 

17.4 

1.1 

47.5 

37.5 

14 

72 

7 

20 

Cellu- 
lose. 

~3 
2 
11 
2.5 

6 
1.5 

7 


*Gum  5,  Sus;ar  1. 
tSugar  2,  Gum  2. 
JIncIuding  Sugar  and  Gum. 
§Including  Gum. 


204  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


SICK 


As  a  good  many  recipes  have  been  given  through- 
out the  book  for  the  sick,  I  will  simply  give  a  few  hints 
on  the  care  of  the  sick  and  a  few  extra  recipes. 

Nearly  all .  of  the  two  chapters  on  "Drinks"  and 
"Soups"  can  be  used  for  the  sick,  except  a  few  things 
that  may  be  forbidden  for  a  time  by  the  physician, 
having  his  own  reason  for  forbidding  them — for  in- 
stance, a  raw  egg  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  foods 
for  sick,  convalescent,  strenyous  workers  and  nervous 
people,  but  there  are  a  few,  rare  cases  where  they  must 
not  be  used,  that  is,  for  a  time  at  least;  in  some  cases 
only  the  white  is  forbidden. 

There  is  nothing  that  makes  one  so  nervous,  irrit- 
able and  disagreeable  as  a  bad  stomach.  The  whole 
system  suffers  and  strength  wears  away  for  the  want 
of  preparation  of  building  material  in  a  good,  clean 
stomach.  One  may  have  just  what  they  need  pre- 
pared, perfectly,  yet  spoiled  by  bad  habits  of  eating, 
which  are  readily  acquired  but  difficult  to  break.  Eat 
slowly  only  what  can  be  digested  and  only  as  much 
as  can  be  digested,  and  drink  as  little  as  possible  with 
meals,  and  drinks  with  meals  should  be  warm.  The 
best  time  for  cold  drinks  is  one  hour  before  or  two 
hours  after  eating.  If  one  cannot  stand  cold  water, 
then  they  should  drink  plenty  of  hot  (occasionally  put- 
ting in  a  little  salt),  which  is  the  best  of  all  drinks  for 
indigestion,  cramps,  nervousness  or  any  ailment.  It  is 
simply  invaluable,  slow  but  sure  and  must  be  sipped 
slowly  with  a  spoon  as  there  is  danger  of  dilating  the 
stomach  by  taking  too  fast.     Four  large  cups  of  hot 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  205 

water  taken  one-half  hour  apart,  without  eating  any- 
thing, and  lying  quietly,  will  cure  severe  cases  of 
cramps.  If  relief  does  not  come  in  two  hours,  then 
it  is  necessary  to  call  a  physician,  though  one  might 
first  take  an  enema  of  warm  water,  (salt),  or  just 
plain  warm  water,  from  one  to  three  quarts.  This  will 
often  give  instant  relief  or  may  be  repeated  in  half  an 
hour,  if  still  suffering.  Oftentimes  before  taking  the 
four  cups  of  hot  water,  it  is  well  to  drink  a  pint  or 
quart  of  luke  warm,  salted  water  (on^  teaspoonful  of 
salt  to  one  quart),  and  immediately  vomit,  thus  wash- 
ing out  the  stomach ;  then  after  resting  a  few  minutes 
proceed  with  the  four  cups  of  hot  water  as  directed 
above.  If  one  cannot  vomit,  it  will  do  no  harm,  only 
rest  about  an  hour  before  starting  the  hot  water  cure. 
It  is  only  about  one  case  in  twenty  that  won't  be  able 
to  vomit.  In  such  cases  of  very  acute  indigestion,  it 
is  best  to  call  one's  physician,  who  will  see  that  the 
stomach  is  cleaned  as  quickly  as  possible,  as  those  at- 
tacks are  rather  severe  on  even  the  strongest  heart 
and  other  vital  organs. 

For  those  in  bed,  that  is,  very  sick  patients,  no  mat- 
ter what  the  case  may  be,  give  but  little  food  and  give 
often  with  plenty  of  water,  hot  or  cold,  midway  be- 
tween. A  tumbler  of  good  milk  every  three  hours,  be- 
ginning early,  say  6  a.  m.  (6-9-13-3-6-9)  with  one  or 
two  of  same  during  the  night  if  patient  wakes  up,  is 
sufficient  diet  for  six  weeks.  Other  drinks  can  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  milk  but  it  is  well  to  give  as  much 
milk  as  possible  if  it  has  been  properly  taken  care  of. 
It  is  best  to  keep  it  in  small  closed  bottles  in  the 
icebox. 

If  a  patient  cannot  stand  as  much  as  above,  then 
give  a  wineglass  every  two  hours,  or  a  tablespoonful 
every  half  hour  for  a  few  days  till  he  gains  sufficient 
strength,  or  even  less  than  this.    Oftentimes  it  is  well 

/ 


206  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

to  let  him  go  a  half  or  whole  day  without  nourishment, 
giving  plenty  of  hot  water,  in  say,  wineglass  doses, 
every  half  hour  or  hour. 

With  a  convalescent  or  strenuous  worker  who 
should  take  just  as  good  care  of  himself  whether 
the  work  be  mental  or  physical  labor,  some  foods  that 
may  not  agree  with  him  in  one  method  of  preparation 
may  be  very  agreeable  and  digestible  under  other  care- 
ful methods,  and  often  one  can  digest  and  assimilate 
what  may  not  be  palatable  to  him  but  should  aim  to 
cultivate  a  taste  for  it  because  of  the  good  and  virtue 
he  may  get  out  of  it,  and  because  he  needs  it. 

For  instance,  oatmeal,  which  so  many  dislike,  after 
long,  car-eful  cooking,  converting  some  of  the  indigest- 
ible things  about  it  into  digestible,  wholesome  food, 
is  one  of  the  cheapest  and  most  valuable  foods  and 
one  should  train  himself  to  eat  it  without  sugar. 
Children  should  be  trained  to  eat  it  thus  and  given 
only  in  small  quantities  so  they  will  not  lose  a  taste 
for  it.  If  one  can  afford  cream,  it  is  very  nice,  but  if 
not,  use  the  top  milk,  which  is  about  seven  or  eight 
per  cent  cream.  It  is  better  to  syphon  or  take  off  care- 
fully with  a  spoon,  but  it  can  be  carefully  poured  into 
the  pitcher.  There  is  quite  a  difference  in  the  propor- 
tion of  elements  in  the  top  half  of  milk  and  in  the  bot- 
tom half,  after  it  stands  without  disturbing  for  five  or 
six  hours.  This  bottom  milk  is  indispenible  for  a  few 
rare  kidney  cases  where  cream  and  eggs  are  forbidden, 
in  fact,  it  would  make  a  perfect  diet  for  them  for  two 
or  three  weeks  at  a  time,  not  forgetting  plenty  of  water 
between.  Buttermilk  and  koumyss  are  also  good  in 
these  cases,  buttermilk  being  the  best.  Buttermilk  is 
excellent  in  most  all  cases  but  must  be  careful  not  to 
overtax  the  stomach.  When  one  needs  nourishment 
between  meals,  a  raw  egg  beaten  with  a  little  salt 
and  drunk,  is  a  great  tonic.    If  one  cannot  take  it,  then 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  207 

approach  it  as  nearly  as  possible  by  adding  a  pinch  of 
sugar  and  a  little  milk  till  you  can  cultivate  a  taste 
for  it. 

Buttermilk,  an  occasional  dish  of  good,  healthy  ice 
cream  (plain,  not  that  highly  flavored,  as  most  flavor- 
ings are  poisonous,  especially  vanilla),  a  cup  of  junket, 
or  two  or  three  milk  tablets  (Horlick's  malted),  and 
many  other  little  things,  make  a  very  nourishing  as 
well  as  a  varied  diet  between  meals.  The  two  chapters 
mentioned  will  give  ideas  also  of  diet  to  use  for  nour- 
ishment between  meals,  using  flavorings  as  little  as 
possible;  they  tax  a  weak  stomach  too  much. 

A  few  desserts  for  young  children  and  convalescents 

or  any  having  weak  stomachs : 

Junket.  Plain  Custard. 

Rice  Pudding  without  raisins.      Small  Amount  Ice  Cream 

Baked  Apples.  (Nice  cold  with  (Plain.) 

cream.)  Prunes. 

Pears.  Peaches. 

Diet  after  an  acute  attack  of  indigestion : 

Broth.  Greatly  diluted  milk. 

Thin  gruel.  Whey. 

Small  amounts  of  properly  heated  milk  (in  double 
boiler  till  it  sort  of  foams  or  begins  to  form  a  scum  on 
top).  In  heating  milk,  if  without  a  double  boiler,  just 
scald  but  never  boil. 

The  chapter  on  "Eggs"  gives  a  few  nice  dishes  for 
the  sick  and  a  few  dishes  in  other  chapters.  If  I  cajn, 
I  will  have  dishes  marked  in  the  index  with  a  star  or 
separate  list  made  which  can  be  used  for  those  not 
on  regular  diet. 

I  want  also  to  note  the  importance  of  Zweibach  for  a 
delicate  stomach.    It  seems  to  do  the  work  physicians    ^.  -i 
recommend  to  do.  j  no*"o 

Raw  eggs  in  warm  weather  should  not  be  mort  j  f-'iid 
than  three  days  old  when  used  for  invalids.  In  facie  ^re  is 
at  any  time,  the  fresher  eggs  and  milk  are  the  bettou  extra 


208  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Lard  should  never  be  used'  for  cooking  except  for 
the  strongest,  and  then  only  limited. 

Drowsiness,  lack  of  ambition,  that  awful  tired  feel- 
ing and  many  other  things  are  symptoms  of  indiges- 
tion from  which  one  may  not  know  they  are  suffering. 
Lack  of  relaxation  will  cause  the  severest  forms  of  in- 
digestion and  constipation.  The  strenuous  workers, 
instead  of  having  to  dress  up  after  their  hard  day's 
work,  should  lounge  in  loose  clothing  and  have  their 
dinner  in  quiet  and  comfort. 

Never  ask  an  invalid  what  he  will  have  to  eat.  Try 
to  vary  the  bill  of  fare  each  day,  serving  only  one  or 
two  dishes  at  a  time,  in  small  amounts  and  as  daintily 
as  possible,  using  the  prettiest  dishes  and  napkins  that 
one  has.  If  permitted,  weak  tea  or  coffee  occasionally, 
put  in  a  little  heated  teapot,  as  a  patient  enjoys  pour- 
ing it  himself.  For  warm  foods,  heat  all  the  dishes 
used,  and  for  cold,  have  the  dishes  cold.  Avoid  slop- 
ping or  spilling.  The  room  should  also  be  as  dainty  as 
possible.  Carpets  will  soon  be  a  thing  of  the  past,  but 
if  obliged  to  use  one  on  the  floor,  sponge  it  first  with  a 
cloth  wrung  tightly  out  of  warm  ammonia  or  borax 
water  before  sweeping,  or  use  dampened  sawdust,  but 
raise  no  dust  or  the  very  least  possible.  Never  shake 
a  dust  rag  in  the  sick  room,  or  any  other  room,  and 
use  a  clean  one  every  day,  or  at  least  every  other  day. 
Leave  no  soiled  clothing  or  utensils  in  the  room.  In 
short,  keep  everything  scrupulously  clean — patient, 
room  and  cooking — keeping  simplicity  and  pleasant- 
ness always  in  mind.  It  would  be  well  if  one  bedroom 
could  have  a  fireplace,  which  adds  so  much  to  the 
cheerfulness  of  the  room  as  well  as  for  ventilation,  but 
"ew  of  us  can  afford  this,  though  we  can  make  up  for 
i  in  many  ways. 

bAvoid  company  and  the  advice  of  so  many  friends, 
anjch  make  the  patient  restless  and  dissatisfied,  bin- 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  209 

dering  his  getting  the  rest  which  is  as  essential  to  his 
getting  better,  as  good  cooking  and  the  doctor's  care, 
though  at  times  a  hint  helps  us  over  some  point 
that  is  puzzling.  Avoid  noise  both  about  the  house 
and  in  performing  the  duties  about  the  sick  room. 

Cream  taken  in  small  quantities  is  more  digestible 
than  milk. 

A  patient  should  always  have  his  dishes  freshly 
made. 

Oatmeal  is  the  most  nourishing  of  grains.  Rice  is 
very  important  as  it  affords  both  nourishment  and 
healing  or  soothing  properties.  Rice  water  is  a  very 
valuable  drink. 

Gelatine  contains  but  little  or  no  nourishment  but 
it  is  appetizing  and  can  be  used  to  make  other  foods 
palatable  and  pleasant. 

Cornmeal  gruel  is  a  valuable  article  of  diet  for  those 
who  can  digest  it,  but  there  are  a  few  who  can  take 
only  a  very  small  quantity  of  it.  It  is  a  heat  producer, 
good  for  those  who  suffer  from  the  cold  and  who  find 
it  hard  to  keep  warm. 

The  tenderloin  part  of  the  porterhouse  steak  can 
be  given  to  most  invalids,  the  juice  from  another  piece 
squeezed  over  it.  Serve  with  half  a  slice  of  bread, 
toasted,  or  a  salted  wafer,  or  a  twice  baked  potato,  if 
invalid  is  strong  enough. 

Veal  and  pork  should  be  avoided. 

Beef  tea  or  beef  juice  can  be  given  in  teaspoonful 
doses  to  patient  who  is  very  weak.  When  squeezing 
juice  from  beef,  keep  the  bowl  in  hot  water  and  serve 
immediately  with  a  Httle  salt  and  wafer.  Before 
squeezing,  merely  heat  the  steak  by  broiling  a  minute^'  -'^ 
or  two  to  help  free  the  juices.  A  half  of  a  beaten  egg  ^9*"^ 
raw,  may  be  added  to  beef  tea  and  many  other  drini  -^  ^-'^^y- 

A  few  broths  are  given  in  chapter  on  soups.   Oj  ^^  -re  is 
kinds  can  be  made  after  the  same  principles.    Pr-ou  extra 
14  Jt^ 


210  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

attention  to  the  brandy,  wine  and  patent  medicine 
cures;  the  after  effects  are  worse  than  the  disease. 
Ginger  tea  is  almost  as  bad  though  a  little  may  be 
used  to  quiet  pain  till  one  gets  the  system  starting  its 
work. 

Milk  loast,  properly  made,  should  not  be  forgotten 
for  the  mvalid. 

RAW  EGG 

Besides  the  method  already  given,  another  is  to 
break  an  egg  in  a  small  tumbler,  put  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  on  it  and  swallow  whole.  Some  use  a 
teaspoonful  of  brandy,  but  avoid  it  if  possible.  A  tea- 
spoonful  of  port  wine  or  sherry  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  beaten  with  the  egg,  yolk  and  white  separately 
or  together.  This  will  do  till  one  can  get  accustomed 
to  taking  the  egg  without  these  things.  An  occa- 
sional flavoring  for  a  patient,  of  these  things,  is  not 
out  of  the  way  if  judgment  is  used,  but  on  no  account 
should  they  be  given  as  a  beverage. 

RICE  JELLY 

Make  a  thin  paste  of  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
rice  flour  and  a  little  cold  water.  Add  to  it  a  coffee 
cupful  of  boiling  water.  Sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf 
sugar.  Boil  till  it  is  transparent.  Flavor  with  a  piece 
of  stick  cinnamon,  lemon  juice  or  other  fruit  juice, 
pour  into  a  pretty  dish  or  bowl  to  mold. 

ARROW  ROOT  JELLY 

Make  in  same  way. 

RICE  WATER 

■,^  Can  be  made  same  as  rice  jelly  except  use  about  a 
^  ^rt  of  boiling  water  to  one  tablespoonful  of  rice 
J3^/^r.  May  be  taken  hot  or  cold.  Plain  rice  may  be 
anjc^and  strained. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  211 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE 

A  small  handful  of  moss,  about  an  ounce  or  a  little 
more  (to  be  purchased  at  any  drug  store),  wash  very 
carefully  and  put  in  one  quart  of  milk  on  the  fire.  Let 
it  simmer  twenty  minutes  or  till  moss  begins  to  dis- 
solve. Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
flavor  if  desired.  Put  away  to  harden  in  cups  or  molds. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

FLAX  SEED  TEA  AND  LEMONADE 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flax  seed,  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  let  stand  in  a  very  warm  place  for  three  or  four 
hours,  but  not  on  the  lire.  Strain  through  linen  cloth, 
flavoi  with  licorice  root  or  piece  of  lemon.  Excellent 
for  a  cough.  A  tumblerful  may  be  taken  at  a  time. 
Should  always  be  made  fresh.  The  lemonade  is  made 
the  same  way  only  it  may  be  simmered,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon  added,  strained  and  sweetened  to  taste.  Drink 
hot,  also  good  for  a  cough, 

TOAST  WATER 

Pour  boiling  water  on  pitcher  or  bowl  filled  with 
slightly  buttered  and  salted  toast.  Let  stand  a  minute 
or  two  and  pour  into  a  warm  cup.    Serve  at  once. 

CHIPPED  BEEF  ON  TOAST 

Shave  from  round  or  sirloin  steak  a  few  thin,  tiny 
pieces,  enough  to  cover  a  slice  of  toast.     Place  on 
pancake  turner  and  drop  for  a  half  minute  in  a  tea- 
spoonful   of  sizzling  butter,   turning  once,   lay  on  ? -" 
warm  saucer  for  a  minute  while  you  add  a  tablespoo  ^?^ 
ful  or  so  of  boiling  water  to  the  juice  in  spider —  ''/'^•, 

toast  in  and  turn,  then  lay  on  warm  plate,  pu  ^^ '" 

r       '  1  •   •       ■    •       •  .ou  extra 

meat  on  top  of  toast  and  pour  remammg  juice, 


212  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

over  this.  A  little  extra  piece  of  meat  may  be  cooked 
with  it  so  as  to  have  plenty  of  juice.  On  no  account 
should  it  be  scorched.  Flavor  with  salt.  This  is  very 
much  relished. 

SUGAR  OF  MILK 

This  is  better  for  infants  and  invalids  than  sugar.  It 
is  very  high  priced,  about  fifty  cents  a  pound,  and  can 
only  be  bought  at  the  druggists. 

PREPARED  FLOUR 

This  will  form  either  a  hard  ball  or  a  powder,  accord- 
ing to  the  amount  used.  Take  a  double  handful  of 
flour  or  a  pint,  tie  up  tightly  in  a  cloth  and  put  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil  from  three  to  six  hours,  take 
out,  remove  the  cloth,  and  it  will  be  a  hard  round  ball 
or  a  ball  with  powdery  center.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry 
place  and  when  wanted  for  use,  prepare  by  placing  some 
sweet  milk  in  double  boiler  and  grating  in  enough  of  the 
flour  to  make  it  as  thick  as  you  desire.  Flavor  with  a 
little  salt  and  just  stir  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon  to  flavor 
if  liked.  This  can  be  given  to  rather  young  babies,  say 
six  or  nine  months.  Excellent  for  anyone,  especially 
suffering  from  summer  complaint. 

One  often  hears  complaints  that  there  are  such  a  few 
things  that  can  be  prepared  for  the  sick,  but  it  seems  a 
two  hundred  page  volume  could  be  easily  filled  with 
recipes  for  delicacies  and  nourishing  things  for  the  sick. 


bA- 
anicb 


(  nots 

^  .  f'iid 

le  -^e  is 
.ou  extra 
>t^ 


'From  homes  like  these  Scotland's  grandeur  rises." 

— "Cotter's  Saturday  Night." 


"Not  every  woman  can  transform  a  house  into  a  home." 
Is  this  true  where  she  tries? 


t 
bA 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  215 


HOME-MAKING 


HEALTH  IN  THE  HOME 

Home — The  greatest  institution  on  earth. 

Health,  a  well  regulated  household,  and  above  all  a 
happy  home  depend  more  upon  the  mother  than  any 
other  member  of  the  family. 

To  accomplish  this  great  work  she  must  study  herself 
and  keep  her  physical  condition  at  its  best  for  that  is  the 
foundation  of  her  happiness  which  will  be  imparted  to 
the  rest  of  the  family. 

Home-making,  like  music,  or  any  other  profession,  is 
an  endless  study,  an  art,  and  she  must  constantly  plan  to 
save  herself  and  still  keep  the  house  sanitary  and  pleas- 
ant and  the  meals  as  palatable  and  scientific  as  she  knows 
how. 

Scientific  cooking  does  not  mean  fancy  or  expensive 
cooking  as  many  people  think,  but  rather  economical  and 
wise  cooking.  It  means  getting  all  the  food  value  out 
of  all  foods  in  such  a  way  that  even  the  most  tired  and 
over-worked  body  can  easily  assimilate  and  digest  it. 
Few  understand  this  to  be  part  of  their  duty,  but  it  is  an 
important  one  and .  becomes  a  great  pleasure  and  very, 
interesting  as  one  advances  in  it.  It  is  a  duty,  which, 
combined  with  the  greater  one  of  child  training  deserves 
the  greatest  crown  of  glory  in  Heaven.  Few  realize 
that  by  doing  this  conscientiously  they  are  living  the  life 
that  Christ  taught  them,  and  are  a  great  factor. in  the 
building  of  a  noble  nation,  The  individual  home  mak/-"" 
a  country's  goodness  and  greatness.  ^?"^ 

I  mean  this  article  to  help  the  mother,  or  as  is  6'"'^     ^[ 

times  the  very  sad  case,  that  other  who  is  try.^'  ^^  ^''^  ^^ 

]ou  extra 


216  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

take  the  place  of  the  mother;  it  may  be  a  sister  of  the 
father  or  mother,  the  oldest  daughter,  or  often  a  hired 
stranger  whose  profession  they  do  not  realize,  is  one  of 
the  noblest  and  grandest. 

This  book  and  this  special  article  is  born  of  the  sym- 
pathy gained  as  a  professional  nurse  in  homes  both  rich 
and  poor.  There  is  scarcely  a  rule  or  recipe  given  which 
has  not  been  suggested  by  some  personal  experience  in 
which  I  found  that  there  were  many  needing  what  I  had 
discovered  only  through  hard  study,  long  research  and 
difficult  experimentation.  For  the  benefit  of  these"  sim- 
ilarly situated  I  issue  it.  To  begin  wath,  it  is  always  a 
mistake  to  look  for  too  quick  results,  or  to  expect  ap- 
preciation of  your  work..  People  who  have  good  ideas 
often  hesitate  to  express  them  for  fear  they  will  not  be 
appreciated.  Do  not  hesitate — to  speak  may  help  some- 
one and  the  Lord  takes  care  of  results ;  they  may  not 
show  for  years,  till  long  after  death,  but  the  good  is 
working  just  the  same.  Right  here,  I  will  say,  do  not 
do  anything  for  worldly  appreciation,  but  because  it  is 
needed  and  for  God  alone.  Away  back  in  one  of  the  old 
second  or  third  readers  I  remember  a  little  verse,  'T 
cannot  do  much,  said  a  little  Star,  to  make  this  dark 
world  bright,"  etc.  To  do  your  duty,  one  of  the  first 
and  best  laws  you  might  follow  is.  Do  not  worry,  it  is 
a  sin  to  worry.  You  do  not  trust  God  by  so  doing. 
Second  law — Refuse  to  be  a  drudge.  These  two  cover 
so  much  ground  it  would  take  a  volume  to  tell  it — to 
do  it  justice.  Change  drudgery  to  pleasure  "learn  how 
to  lose  time  in  order  to  gain  it,  and  that  time  lost  is  well 
spent  if  put  upon  both  the  training  of  ourselves  and  the 
children,  including  plenty  of  rest  and  relaxation  for  both 
nd  profitable  pleasure."  Nature  furnishes  enough  for 
'"  of  us  if  we  will  only  take  advantage  of  the  golden 
t  ortunities  she  gives  us.  Froebel  says  "From  every- 
bA-  in  nature  there  is  a  way  to  God."  This  also 
anicr. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  217 

means  the  way  to  true  happiness.  If  one  can't  study  it 
out  for  themselves  there  are  now  an  abundance  of  good 
magazines,  books,  etc.  If  we  will  only  read  the  right 
articles,  and  every  line  of  some  of  them  is  worthy  of 
thought. 

Heretofore  magazines  seemed  to  be  beyond  the  needs 
of  the  people  but  they  seem  to  come  nearer  and  nearer 
to  us ;  more  practical  and  simple  each  year.  One  or  two 
is  enough  to  subscribe  for  if  all  the  good  they  contain 
is  taken  out  of  them,  and  the  more  one  reads  them  the 
more  you  like  and  long  for  them  to  come.  Oftentimes 
little  articles  in  the  newspapers  happen  to  be  just  what 
we  want  to  have  and  help  over  a  puzzling  place. 

Hannah  Whitall  Smith  says :  "See  to  it  that  your 
boys  and  girls,  when  they  grow  up,  do  not  remember 
you  as  an  anxious,  worried,  irritable  mother;  but  live 
such  a  life  of  trust  before  them  that  they  will  have  al- 
ways a  picture  of  peace  and  trust  when  they  think  of 
you."  Don't  get  discouraged  because  you  have  not  al- 
ways been  so.  "Look  not  mournfully  into  the  past; 
it  will  return  no  more,  vv^isely  improve  the  present,  and 
go  forth  into  the  shadowy  future  without  fear  and 
with  a  manly  heart." 

After  taking  up  the  work  of  happy  home-making  you 
will  meet  with  grumbling,  dissatisfaction  and  all  kinds  of 
discouragement  and  become  impatient  yourself;  simply 
never  mind  but  keep  working  on  quietly  and  in  the 
course  of  time  those  things  will  pass  away.  Mrs.  J. 
Daving   Power,    of   Ireland,   writes: 


"Be  brave,   poor   stricken   heart,   be   brave ; 

Despair  not ;  hope  on ;  pray, 

From  out  the  land  beyond  the  grave  ^^ 

There  gHmmers  still  a  ray,  no*">'' 

A  tiny  beam,  a  hopeful  light  j  f-'nd^ 

That  piercest  deepest  gloom,  ,       '    .^ 

And  proves  those  murky  clouds  of  night  ^^  "-^   ^^ 

But  guide  to  lead  you  home.  .'ou  extra 


ai8  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Your  cross  is  heavy;  ah,  I  know, 

'Tis  hard — too  hard — to  bear ; 
But  He  who  suffered  pain  and  woe 

Gave  way  not  to  despair, 
'The  heavy  cross,  the  brilliant  crown' 

'Tis  proof  that  God  has  given ; 
The  few  He  chooses  for  His  own 

Go  perfect  into  heaven." 

The' training  of  the  child  begins  in  infancy;  it  should 
begin  the  very  day  of  its  birth ;  regular  habits  of  sleeping 
and  feeding.  Between  the  age  of  two  and  three  years 
a  tiny  task  begun ;  it  may  take  it  weeks  and  even  months 
to  learn  one  small  thing  and  then  roughly,  but  the  little 
untrained  hand  is  learning,  just  the  same.  A  child  should 
not  be  given  more  than  it  is  able  to  do  and  finish  or  it 
will  become  careless  and  indolent.  It  is  true  that  it  is 
easier  to  do  a  thing  one's  self,  but  it  is  not  justice  to  the 
child,  especially  when  they  are  beginning  to  learn  to  cook 
and  do  housework.  Teach  them  the  best  method  you 
know  and  allow  them  to  originate  some  of  their  own. 
Make  the  work  interesting  and  they  will  enjoy  it.  It 
matters  not  what  their  future  work  will  be,  this  training 
is  the  one  that  will  make  or  mar  the  success  of  the  future 
by  forming  the  habits  of  industry,  honesty,  etc.  Be  care- 
ful not  to  punish  or  ever  whip  a  child  for  what  it  does 
not  do  or  can't  understand.  Children  love  protection 
and  we  should  be  their  protectors.  It  is  wrong  to  look 
for  judgment  and  experience  in  them  for  there  are  no 
harder  workers  in  a  world  that  is  brand  new  to  them 
than  the  children.  New  tasks  are  hard  for  ourselves  the 
first  few  times  and  still  harder  for  the  youth.  *A  wise  man 
says,  the  greatest  education  of  a  child's  life  comes  be- 
fore he  is  seven  years  old.  Think  of  the  responsibility 
■••f  a  mother ;    Do  not  worry  about  this ;  rear  the  child 

'nle  it  is  still  with  you  to  the  highest  ideals  by  means 

*  noted  Catholic  sister  said:  "Give  me  a  child  till  it  is  four  years  old 
C  .  -"re  not  who  takes  it  after  that."  Dr.  Newman  says:  "Train  the  child 
,  .'  is  horn."  The  writer  hopes  he  will  write  a  simple  little  book  on 
DA'  "  Influence"  for  the  benefit  of  poor  mothers. 

anici^ 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  219 

of  good  books,  good  pictures,  beautiful  flowers,  habits 
of  industry,  regular  and  conscientious  attendance  at 
school  (very  important)  and  so  on.  Gain  the  child's 
confidence  and  constantly  strive  to  educate  yourself. 
They  must  not  only  be  taught  to  speak  the  truth,  but  to 
feel  it  and  act  it.  Live  only  for  this ;  God  asks  no  more. 
Do  not  make  it  too  hard  for  them  to  confess  the  truth 
by  too  severe  punishment. 

The  Third  Rule— "And  the  greatest  of  all  these  is 
Charity."  Not  only  practice  charity  in  your  home,  but 
carry  it  out  unconsciously  to  other  homes.  Not  the 
charity  that  consists  in  alms-giving,  but  that  which 
thinketh  and  speaketh  not  evil.  Help  brighten  and  beau- 
tify the  lives  of  other  people.  Never  be  sorrowful ;  this 
is  intensely  selfish. 

A  little  incident  came  under  my  notice  some  years 
ago  which  made  an  impression  on  me.  The  mother  of 
a  poor  family  was  taken  seriously  ill  very  suddenly,  a 
neighboring  lady  came  in  to  visit  and  did  not  ask  what 
she  could  do,  but  seeing  a  basket  of  clothes  to  wash, 
slipped  them  out  unknown  to  anyone  and  brought  them 
back  next  morning  nicely  washed  and  ironed.  She  then 
did  many  other  needful  little  things  in  such  a  quiet 
neat  way  that  her  very  movement  showed  she  wanted 
that  mother  spared  to  her  two  little  children,  and  was 
a  great  comfort  to  all. 

This  is  visiting  the  sick.  This  is  also  making  another 
home  happy  when  the  poor  mother  was  not  able,  and 
above  all,  it  was  charity,  and  she  talked  not  of  the  faults 
of  the  home. 

"Do  not  look  for  wrong  or  evil. 
You  will  find  them,  if  you  do."  ^^i 

I  quote  from  a  newspaper  a  short  article  entitl^Q^.^ 
"What  a  woman  can  do,"  which  expresses  a  few  o-5j  fiid 
sentiments  on  the  making  of  a  happy  home — "Thej-g  ^re  is 
three  things  that  every  woman  might  do  to  helfQ^  extra 
tify  the  world  and  make  life  worth  living.    One^^  v 


220  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

is  by  making  her  person  as  beautiful  as  she  can  by  ob- 
serving the  laws  of  health  and  preserving  that  tranquil, 
truthful  state  of  mind  which  is  reflected  in  the  face  and 
manner. 

Another  is  to  learn  to  beautify  her  dress.  This  does 
not  mean  to  increase  its  complexity  or  its  adherance  to 
the  changes  of  fashion,  but  rather  to  study  and  experi- 
ment until  she  finds  out  what  gown,  colors  and  styles 
are  most  becoming  to  her,  and  then  adopt  these  in  hair- 
dressing  and  garment. 

The  third  is  to  beautify  the  place  wherein  she  lives, 
whether  it  is  one  room  or  a  spacious  home.  Weed  out 
the  wrong  and  needless  things ;  re-arrange  the  others, 
and  force  your  dwelling  place  to  express,  in  some  way, 
your  own  feelings  after  what  is  beautiful  and  true. 

She  may  not  be  able  to  take  part  in  great  civic  move- 
ments. The  circle  of  her  influence  may  be  a  small  one ; 
yet  if  there  is  in  her  an  ideal  of  beauty,  which  finds  its 
expression  in  the  steadfast  improvement  of  her  home, 
her  health  and  her  dress,  she  is  doing  true  artistic  work. 
All  reforms  and  all  progress  begin  with  and  work  out 
through  the  individual." 

The  home  should  be  a  retreat  where  one  could  rest  in 
tranquil  peace,  shut  out  the  cares  of  the  world,  refresh 
the  tired  system,  and  hence,  the  success  of  its  individuals 
in  the  outer  world.  A  study  of  color  is  one  of  the  great 
aids  in  the  part  of  your  profession. 

I  want  to  speak  of  the  health  part  of  it  again  for 
without  this  all  work  is  in  vain.  If  one  cannot  be  en- 
tirely well  and  strong,  then  do  the  next  best  thing  by 
aiming  at  it  as  closely  as  you  can.  Keep  in  your  pos- 
'?ssion  two  or  three  good  cook  books  (one  is  enough  if 

Vs  the  right  kind,  but  the  more  the  better)   and  pay 

'*     attention  to  the  principles  than  the  recipes  so  that 

^  •  'ill  learn  to  put  the  very  best  into  the  system.     You 

D*^'  rn  far  more  from  the  principles  than  from  the 
anici': 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  221 

recipes,  that  is  of  value  to  you.  You  can  make  up  your 
own  recipes  according  to  your  needs  and  means.  Good 
cooking  means  so  much  to  the  individual,  to  the  home, 
to  the  nation.  Good  physical  condition  must  bring  about 
good  moral  standing.  If  the  inmates  of  the  home,  both 
large  and  small,  have  to  work  very  hard,  see  to  it  that 
they  are  properly  nourished  and  have  plenty  of  rest  and 
as  much  fresh  air  as  possible.  Hard  work  is  good  for 
all,  if  it  is  wisely  limited  and  accompanied  by  proper  rest 
and  nourishment.  Have  regular  hours  for  sleep  and 
never  neglect  them.  Late  hours,  loss  of  rest,  and  lack 
of  fresh  air,  have  caused  more  tuberculosis  than  all 
other  evils  put  together.  We  cook  too  fast,  eat  too 
fast,  live  too  fast. 

Besides  studying  her  cook  books,  the  home-maker 
should  consult  the  public  library  occasionally,  which 
costs  nothing ;  she  will  find  abundance  of  books  and  mag- 
azines, though  she  should  subscribe  to  at  least  one 
magazine  in  her  line  of  work. 

The  Mother's  Magazine,  if  read  carefully  all  through 
will  benefit  and  encourage  her.  One  of  the  hardest 
things  for  a  mother  to  learn  is  how  to  relax  and  rest. 
Here  is  a  little  rule  given  by  some  doctor :  "Never 
stand  when  you  can  sit,  and  never  sit  when  you  can  lie." 
This  does  help  to  prevent  som.e  of  that  awful  weariness. 
Never  despair,  it  is  fatal.  Though  one  works  and  strug- 
gles and  fails,  the  effort  itself  is  success.  Devote  at 
least  one-half  hour  a  day  to  your  magazines  and  books. 
You  can  make  this  half  hour  serve  three  things.  Let  it 
be  in  a  quiet  place,  in  an  easy  chair  and  in  the  open  air. 
You  will  then  be  doing  three  things  at  once;  gettinp^ 
fresh  air,  resting  and  educating  yourself — not  to  spean 
of  the  pleasure  it  will  mean  to  you  in  years  to  cono^^i 
If  you  cannot  get  that  half  hour  some  days,  therS  f.'iid 
days  when  you  can  get  two  hours  and  make  up  fie  -le  is 
time.  ,ou  extra 

jt^ 


222  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Here  is  from  a  noted  statesman :  "The  criterion  of  a 
man's  character  is  the  degree  of  respect  he  has  for  a 
woman.  I  am  more  grateful  to  God  for  the  sense  that 
came  to  me,  through  my  mother  and  sisters,  of  the  sub- 
stantial integrity,  purity  and  nobility  of  womanhood 
than  for  almost  anything  else  in  the  world."  This  shows 
that  "The  hand  that  rocks  the  cradle  is  the  hand  that 
rules  the  world."  Is  there  anything  more  sad  than  to 
hear  a  father  or  mother  swear  at  the  children ;  call  them 
hard  names  and  use  foul  language.  Think  of  what  it 
means  to  that  little  life,  what  a  poor  citizen  it  will  be- 
come, and  what  a  worthless  factor  in  doing  God's  work. 
Supposing  that  they  are  little  "know-nothings"  and 
"good-for-nothings,"  they  are  just  as  nature  made  them 
and  the  little  untrained  hands  and  minds  are  bound  to 
learn  if  you  will  just  study  the  simple  ways  of  making 
them  what  they  should  be,  which  becomes  more  and 
more  of  a  pleasure  as  you  advance.  You  will  get  impa- 
tient and  angry  at  times  but  don't  let  it  discourage  you. 
By  trying  you  will  overcome  these  things  in  time,  and 
if  another  member  of  the  household  shows  anger  and 
makes  it  a  habit,  study  the  plan  of  curing  it.  Never 
give  up,  plod  on,  the  result  is  bound  to  come,  although 
it  may  not  be  for  years. 

Don't  think  a  magazine  or  book  worthless  because 
you  cannot  use  all  there  is  in  it;  what  is  not  a  benefit  to 
you  will  be  to  someone  else,  and  by  reading  all  you  can 
you  learn  to  be  more  sympathetic  and  charitable  toward 
others,  broader  minded  and  a  pleasure  to  others. 

Before  closing  I  must  touch  upon  a  sin  practiced 

so   much,   and  so   unconsciously  in   our  homes,  and 

^1:.  seems   to  me   more   so  among  the  poor  than   the 

•,h;    it  is  extravagance.      Read  what  Miss  Willard 

I    ,   "It   should  not  be   tolerated  in   speech,   dress, 

L  Vt'te,   thoughts   or   action.       Extravagance   is   the 

„   •    ,   of   lies    and    a    sister   to   eventual    penury    and 
an^ci'  '^ 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  223 

shame.  I  pray  for  the  coming  of  the  hour  when 
we  shall  eliminate  excesses  from  all  our  doings. 
It  brings  so  much  more  content  and  happiness  to  find  a 
happy  medium  for  all  actions,  to  keep  the  human  pen- 
dulum from  swinging  too  far  either  way.  When  this 
shall  be  accomplished  the  millenium  will  be  thousands  of 
years  nearer."  Read  the  "Simple  Life."  Love  the  sim- 
ple life,  and  live  the  simple  life.  This  does  not  mean 
being  shiftless  by  any  means.  Another  detriment  is  idle- 
ness; it  always  makes  an  unhappy  home.  The  girls  are 
listless ;  they  are  constantly  ill  or  "blue,"  never  conscien- 
tious nor  punctual;  the  boys  are  indifferent,  lack  cour- 
age and  self-respect,  cannot  assume  interest  in  anything. 
Don't  let  this  condition  exist.  Occupation  is  the  great 
thing  and  they  will  find  plenty  near  them  to  do  if  they 
will  only  search  and  study  it  out.  Always  keep  in  view 
the  moral  training  of  both  boys  and  girls ;  the  boys  should 
be  brought  up  just  as  clean  and  pure  as  the  girls.  The 
children  can  make  mother's  steps  fewer,  and  there  is  joy 
in  finding  kindnesses  and  surprises  for  each  other.  A 
brother's  room  make  as  attractive  as  you  can,  and  the 
best  you  can  afford.  He  may  not  appreciate  it  now,  but 
in  years  to  come  he  will  look  back  upon -it,  and  it  will 
in  some  way,  better  his  character.  It  seems  to  me  the 
saddest  mistake  among  the  rich  is  indulgence.  Think 
of  the  awful  effect  upon  the  character  of  a  child,  who 
might  be  great  if  he  were  not  spoiled. 

"Mie  saddest  mistake  among  the  poor  is  shiftlessness 
often  owing  to  discouragement  and  lack  of  interest  in 
life,  and  a  false  idea  of  pleasure ;  -mistake  dissipation  for 
pleasure.     For  instance,  the  public  dance  hall,  which  fill^ 
our  hospitals  with  wrecks  and  our  homes  with  unhaiin 
piness,  and  our  society  with  fallen  girls.    Jane  Adam^ho^-^ 
doing  wonders  towards  correcting  this  evil,  let  U5  f-iid 
help  her  if  it  is  only  by  a  little  word  dropped  he;ie  .re  is 
there ;  it  may  take  root,  you  no  not  know.     Help  <7ou  extra 

Jt^ 


224  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

it  can't  do  harm.  God  takes  care  of  the  reward.  Fill 
the  mind  with  good  things;  let  the  hand  do  the  duties 
it  finds  near,  and  you  will  get  no  time  for  the  bad,  or 
take  any  pleasure  in  it  either.  When  tempted  to  do 
wrong,  stop  for  just  one  minute  and  think: 

"One  life,  and  only  one,  have  we, 

One,  only  one. 
How  sacred  should  that  one  life  ever  be. 
Day  after  day  filled  up  with  blessed  toil, 

Hour  after  hour  bring  in  new  spoil." 


"A  HOME'S  A  HOME  FOR  A'  THAT." 


"Home  and  home  life  must  never  become  commonplace.  The 
little  surprises,  the  remembrance  of  the  birthday,  the  unexpected 
treat,  the  pleasure  earned  for  one  by  the  sacrifice  of  another — all 
these  belong  under  our  head  of  spiritual  exercises.  Nor  is  there 
any  scene  of  our  life  which  so  demands  such  exercise  as  this 
familiar  scene  of  home,  which  has  to  be  reset  every  day." — Ed- 
ward Everett  Hale. 


"All  that  I  am,  my  mother  made  me." 

— John  Adams. 


t.' 
anici". 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  225 


DINING  ROOM  AND  KITCHEN 


The  dining  room  should  be  the  most  attractive  and 
pleasant  room  in .  the  house — the  kitchen  is  the  most 
practical. 

Weed  out  what  is  not  needed  in  both  places  and  ar- 
range what  is  needed  in  the  most  attractive  systematic 
and  practical  way  possible. 

If  the  dining  room  must  be  used  for  sewing,  etc.,  then 
a  pretty  screen  can  be  made  to  match  the  room  in  color 
and  hide  unsightly  things  as  the  sewing  machine,  bundles, 
ironing  board,  etc.  Pockets,  pincushions,  etc.,  may  be 
hung  on  back  of  screen. 

It  oftentimes  has  to  serve  the  purpose  of  living  room 
and  music  room.  In  this  case,  sensibly  made  and  pretty 
screens  are  a  great  help,  not  only  to  beautify  but  to  be 
useful,  for  instance,  to  put  around  the  piano  to  protect 
it  while  airing  the  house  or  a  two  panel  one  will  pro- 
tect it  from  the  direct  rays  of  heat  from  stove  or  sun. 
One  of  white  protects  the  baby  while  bathing;  also  nice 
for  the  sick  bed. 

The  glassware,  silver  and  the  nicer  dishes  can  be  care- 
fully washed  on  a  side  table,  saving  many  steps  for  the 
weary  housewife. 

A  small  rinsing  and  draining  pan  can  be  kept  hung 
behind  a  small  screen.     The  suds  for  washing  can  be 
brought  in  from  the  kitchen  in  dishpan  and  carried  back, 
or  three  pans  may  be  kept  behind  the  screens,  one  for 
washing,  one  for  rinsing  and  one  for  draining,  and  also 
a  baking  powder  can  or  any  dish  not  very  roomy  can 
be  hung  back  of  the  screen  for  soap.     Then  enough  ho^.i 
water  can  be  brought  in,  in  a  medium  sized  pail  to  do  f. 'iid 
both  sudsing  and  rinsing  and  poured  back  into  the  -re  is 
to  wash  the  cooking  dishes  in,  in  the  kitchen  thou  extra 
one  has  to  keep  a  meal  waiting  which  should  not  ^ 

16 


22G  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

only  in  case  of  absolute  necessity,  it  is  often  economy  to 
wash  the  cooking  dishes  while  waiting. 

Either  method  will  only  require  one  trip  to  the  kitchen 
for  the  process  of  washing.  If  the  side  table  is  a  nicely 
finished  one,  squares  of  wood  may  be  kept  behind  the 
screen  to  protect  table  from  the  hot  pans.  Newspaper 
is  not  sufficient  protection.  This  method  is  meant  for  the 
older  fashioned  houses.  The  later  houses  are  arranged 
so  that  it  is  easier  to  carry  the  dishes  to  the  kitchen, 

A  tray  or  better  a  sort  of  tray  basket  with  a  handle 
saves  many  steps.  Dishwashing  can  be  made  a  very 
clean  work  or  sloppy.  One  can  so  train  themselves  so 
as  not  to  splash  a  drop  of  water,  thereby  saving  the  labor 
of  so  much  cleaning  and  valuable  time  that  can  be  used 
for  restfulness,  reading  or  studying. 

In  putting  away  things  from  the  table  after  meals,  all 
sticky  or  greasy  things  as  the  syrup  pitcher,  should  be 
wiped  off  with  a  clean,  damp  cloth.  This  not  only  keeps 
the  pantry  neat  and  clean  but  makes  the  table  attractive 
and  appetizing  when  set  for  the  next  meal.  This  method 
also  saves  the  tablecloth. 

With  aid  of  one  or  two  screens  and  perhaps  a  curtain 
or  two  for  some  doors,  paying  considerable  attention  to 
coloring,  using  only  one  color  or  a  combination  of  well 
blended  colors,  the  dining  room  is  easy  to  make  simple 
and  pretty ;  the  simpler  the  prettier. 

The  inside  door  or  doors  can  be  removed,  especially 
where  one  is  crowded  and  needs  room.  It  adds  much 
to  the  roominess. 

On  very  hot  days  the  house  should  be  darkened  about 
9  a.  m.  and  opened  about  5  p.  m. ;  other  days  it  is  better 
*;o  lay  newspapers  on  the  rugs  and  let  in  the  sun  and 
'l\  this  saves  fading  both  cheeks  and  rugs, 
t  .  'he  door  between  dining  room  and  kitchen  should  al- 
bA  be  closed  to  keep  out  heat,  steam,  gas,  etc. 
anici^  Dr  that  swings  both  ways  is  nice. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  227 

Where  room  is  scare  then  it  should  be  heavily  cur- 
tained, white  cotton  flannel  or  sheeting  on  the  kitchen 
side  and  any  material  to  match  the  dining  room  on  the 
other  side — this  means  a  double  curtain,  one  on  each  side 
of  the  door. 

Where  one  has  to  get  along  with  one  or  two  rooms, 
the  method  given  for  washing,  is  a  very  good  one,  as  it 
steams  the  house  but  very  little  if  carefully  done;  steam 
is  very  bad  for  baby,  children  or  one's  self. 

Always  leave  a  window  slightly  opened  for  the  escape 
of  steam  and  let  in  dry  air;  the  colder  the  air  the  drier. 
This  method  is  good  even  if  the  house  has  a  ventilator 
and  an  escape  pipe  or  other  means  for  the  escape  of 
foul  air. 

Some  houses  are  made  with  good  methods  of  getting 
in  fresh  air,  but  no  escape  for  the  foul. 

The  law  proving  the  fault  of  this  is  that  two  bodies 
cannot  occupy  the  same  space  at  the  same  time. 

In  arranging  the  kitchen,  use  every  inch  of  wall  that 
can  be  made  use  of  conveniently  to  save  steps,  and  all 
the  light  that  space  will  allow,  at  least  two  windows, 
three  are  better. 

In  buying  furnishings,  especially  for  the  kitchen,  notice 
whether  they  are  easily  kept  clean.  Avoid  cooking  dishes 
especially  with  rims  and  handles  full  of  crevices  and 
grooves  to  catch  dirt — some  must  necessarily  be  com- 
plicated. 

There  are  so  many  unsanitary  and  impractical  things 
on  the  market  which  will  be  done  away  with  in  time  and 
things  more  practical  take  their  place  as  people  demand. 

Tin  tobacco  pails  make  good  cooking  dishes  till  one 
can  afford  to  buy  those  of  good  material.     They  can  be 
kept  very  bright  with  ashes  and  must  be  well  ^calde^'i 
One  can  even  make  a  double  boiler  of  them  by  haviid 
different  sizes  and  dropping  two  or  three  pebbles  ire  is 
bottom.     Also  a  steamer  by  driving  a  nail  here  an  extra 


228  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

to  make  holes.  Also  an  ice  cream  freezer.  Make 
cozies  to  fit,  being  careful  not  to  get  cozies  too  close 
to  the  fire.  These  cozies  are  very  good  fuel  savers. 
They  need  not  be  washed  very  often,  but  set  outdoors 
on  a  little  line  to  dry  and  air ;  two  or  three  of  them  will 
last  a  year  or  more  and  should  have  their  place  in  the 
kitchen  as  well  as  any  other  necessity  for  good  cook- 
ing. Such  cooking  dishes  with  a  good  spider,  will  last 
until  one  can  begin  to  buy  good  utensils.  The  heavier 
your  spider  and  the  heavier  one  or  two  kettles  are  for 
slow  cooking,  the  more  scientific  the  cooking,  always 
remembering  that  scientific  cooking  means  health  and 
happiness  and  a  fatter  purse.  If  one  can  afford  to 
have  only  oatmeal  for  breakfast,  let  it  be  cooked  right. 

Though  the  late  three  or  four  piece  steam  cooker  is 
hard  to  take  care  of,  it  is  well  worth  the  trouble  and 
well  worth  the  most  excellent  care  of  sudsing,  rinsing 
and  thoroughly  drying,  before  putting  in  its  place.  For 
with  only  a  partial  knowledge  of  the  most  used  and 
cheapest  combinations  of  foods,  it  will  cook  them  scien- 
tifically and  the  food  is  delicious.  Little  pamphlets  or 
cook  books  come  with  them,  or  if  absent,,  one  can  se- 
cure it  through  your  dealer  or  write  to  the  company, 
whose  name  is  usually  on  the  cooker.  These  little  cook 
books,  if  carefully  studied,  will  give  you  all  the  knowl- 
edge you  may  need  to  use,  concerning  the  dish. 

The  fireless  cooker  is  another  very  practical  and  great 
aid  in  scientific  cooking.  The  U.  S.  Army  has  learned 
their  great  value  and  is  installing  them  for  use.  Little 
books  go  with  them,  teaching  one  how  to  use  them.  It 
would  be  well  to  heat  the  cooker  with  a  little  covered  pail 
of  boiling  water  set  in  it  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
■'before  the  food  is  prepared  for  it. 

t  .  I  have  seen  some  make  tea  and  coffee  with  baking 
bA'-'der  cans,  which  is  all  right  when  the  cans  are  prop- 
anici^  jred  for.     Both  baking  powder  and  cocoa  cans  are 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  229 

excellent  for  steamed  puddings,  fish  loaves,  meat  loaves 
and  brown  bread.  They  will  last  five  or  six  years  if 
thoroughly  cleaned  and  dried  before  putting  away. 

A  little  lattice  frame  outside  the  window  or  on  the 
porch,  is  an  excellent  way  of  sunning  and  drying  tins. 
All  cooking  dishes  should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  or  cook- 
ing will  taste  of  the  soap,  and  the  dishcloth  used  for 
wiping  them  should  be  rung  out  of  clear  water  and  not 
the  suds  as  so  many  do.  Towels  can  be  used  for  tin 
and  granite. 

A  swab  made  for  greasing  molds,  griddles  and  so  on, 
can  be  made  of  a  little  stick  notched  near  the  end,  and 
a  clean  white  rag  tied  on,  which  should  be  changed  often. 
This  can  be  kept  in  a  rounding  bowl  or  thick  white  cup, 
which  can  be  set  in  warm  water  or  on  back  of  range  to 
melt  the  grease  for  use.  One  should  keep  two  bowls 
or  cups  for  this  purpose,  that  is  to  save  some  of  the 
dripping  for  greasing  and  two  little  jars  to  save  it  for 
cooking,  so  that  a  fresh  one  of  each  can  be  started  each 
week  (oftener  in  summer  time  and  less  in  wixiter  time), 
and  the  dripping  won't  get  rancid.  Always  finish  the 
old  one  and  don't  pour  it  into  the  new.  Nearly  all  drip- 
ping can  be  saved  except  that  of  corned  beef;  even  this 
of  a  very  fine  grade  can  be  used.  Chicken  fat,  using 
about  half  butter,  is  good  for  cooking.  I  have  ,not  ex- 
perimented nor  studied  the  fats  of  other  fowls,  except 
goose  fat  is  excellent  for  medicinal  purposes,  making 
salves  of  medicated  oil. 

I  will  not  give  a  list  of  cooking  dishes  as  they  are  men- 
tioned throughout  with  the  recipes,  but  in  addition  to 
cooking  utensils,  every  kitchen  should  have  a  scrap  box 
or  basket  for  burnable  material,  a  covered  pail,  which 
should  be  cleaned  every  day,  for  wet  garbage,  using  this 
for  fertilizer  if  one  has  a  garden  by  digging  holes  and 
covering,  or  what  can't  be  burned;  a  white  granite  is 
none  too  good  and  a  farm  house  should  have  one  extra 


230  THE   HOME-MAKING   COO^  BOOK 

for  clean  slops,  as  potato  skins  and  other  eatable  things. 
Never  feed  a  pig  or  cow  anything  which  you  would  not 
cat,  or  rather  taste  of  yourself,  or  out  of  a  pail  that  you 
would  not  drink.  This  will  help  prevent  cholera  and 
other  diseases  among  animals — "an  ounce  of  prevention 
is  worth  a  pound  of  cure."  In  addition  to  these  two,  a 
rack  or  shelf  for  old  papers,  a  scissors  and  pin  cushion 
(substitute  a  wide  piece  of  ribbon  tacked  at  both  ends). 

One  needs  at  least  two  tables  in  the  kitchen.  One  of 
the  old  fashioned  wash  stands  with  one  drawer,  with 
the  little  board  on  the  back  removed,  covered  neatly  with 
asbestos  paper  and  zinc,  is  fine  for  hot  kettles  which 
should  never  be  set  on  the  floor.  The  drawer  can  be 
used  for  cooking  knives,  forks  and  spoons  and  a  hang- 
mg  shelf  may  be  arranged  above  it  for  keeping  the  most 
used  seasoning  things — sugar  and  salt  being  kept  in  those 
old  fashioned  white  and  blue  covered  jars.  They  seem 
to  be  coming  back  into  use  again.  On  the  ends  of  this 
little  shelf,  hooks  or  shingle  nails  may  be  put  for  hanging 
the  most  used  things,  as  toasting  fork.  Another  thing 
which  ought  to  be  brought  back  into  use  is  the  little  bowl 
shaped  iron  kettle  our  grandmothers  fried  doughnuts  in. 
When  once  heated,  they  keep  their  temperature  and  the 
gas  can  be  turned  out  some  minutes  before  finishing. 
They  save  grease  and  can  be  used  for  many  things  be- 
sides doughnuts.  I  hope  a  little,  heavy  iron  spider  will 
be  put  on  the  market,  for  browning  onions  and  things 
for  flavoring,  which  adds  so  much  to  most  dishes.  For 
the  farmer's  busy  wife,  a  one-burner  gasoline  or  blue 
flame  kerosene  stove  is  a  great  saving  of  labor  for  long 
simmering.  The  burners  should  be  plunged  in  hot  suds 
occasionally  to  avoid  odor.  On  ironing  day,  an  asbestos 
mat  can  be  placed  under  a  simmering  kettle  when  fire 
is  too  hot;  the  more  irons  you  have  the  less  fuel  is 
needed,  requiring  only  a  little  better  than  a  slow  fire. 

Place  the  ice  box  where  it  will  be  cool.    If  it  must  be 


tHE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  231 

kept  in  the  kitchen,  screen  it  from  the  heat.  If  the  cellar 
stairs  are  wide,  a  shelf  or  support  can  be  made  to  place 
a  small  ice  box  on,  in  a  handy  place.  The  storeroom  or 
pantry  should  be  well  curtained  to  keep  out  the  kitchen 
heat.  Flour  sacks  are  very  good  for  curtains  if  washed, 
bleached  and  neatly  made.  One  can  buy  them  at  the 
bakery  for  a  cent  or  two  a  piece,  very  dirty,  but  soaking 
and  several  rinsings  before  washing,  pays  for  their  un- 
numbered uses.  One  thrifty  housekeeper  I  knew,  made 
dresser  and  wash  stand  covers  and  even  lunch  cloths,  by 
making  a  rather  wide  hem  and  starching  them. 

All  bedroom  furniture  should  have  two  sets  of  covers, 
so  that  one  set  can  be  changed  when  cleaning.  Some 
little  convenient  shelf  or  contrivance  with  a  railing  for 
all  kinds  of  covers  of  kettles  can  be  placed  near  the  range 
— saves  lots  of  time  and  "back-breaking"  hunting  for 
them. 

The  old-fashioned  abominable  sink !  If  you  can't  af- 
ford a  carpenter,  go  at  it  day  by  day  till  the  sides  are  all 
removed,  then  hold  up  with  two  iron  brackets  or  wooden 
ones  made  by  a  carpenter,  or  one  bracket  is  sufficient  if 
one  end  of  sink  is  near  a  wall.  After  having  the  car- 
penter work  done,  paint  the  outside  any  color  that  always 
looks  clean.  A  thin  coat  of  varnish  over  the  paint  will 
make  it  last  for  years.  An  all-white  kitchen  or  a  very 
pale  blue  is  cheery  as  well  as  clean.  The  nearer  the  sink 
is  to  the  stove,  the  better ;  also  one  table.  Drop  shelves 
make  good  kitchen  tables. 

Then  over  the  sink,  place  a  shelf  or  some  handy  con- 
trivance so  that  a  small  whisk  brook  and  a  toy  dust  pan 
can  be  hung  so  they  will  drip  into  the  sink ;  also  a  dipper 
and  wash  basin.  A  whisk  broom  will  last  four  or  five 
years  if  it  is  hung  up  by  a  ring  at  end  of  handle  every 
time  it  is  used.  The  newspapers  should  be  placed  near 
the  sink  so  that  the  dirty  dirt  can  be  put  on  one  and 
burned  and  clean  garbage  can  be  lightly  picked  up  with 


232  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

those  two  little  tools  and  if  on  a  farm,  saved  -for  pigs 
and  chickens — in  small  cities  some  men  will  call  for  those 
things  for  different  uses,  while  there  is  a  certain  amount 
which  must  be  taken  by  the  garbage  man.  Where  one 
has  no  range,  dry  garbage  can  be  burned  out  of  doors 
and  the  ashes  neatly  swept  up  and  put  in  garbage  pail, 
or  if  one  has  a  little  garden  patch  burn  in  a  little  hollow 
and  rake  dirt  over  the  ashes,  which  act  as  a  fertilizer. 

Never  allow  a  dish  cloth  to  become  foul  smelling.  Al- 
ways hang  out  to  dry  when  through  with,  giving  it  a 
good  scalding  occasionally;  or  better  still,  have  six  or 
eight  and  wash  with  the  weekly  wash.  Save  dish  cloths 
by  using  rags  from  the  scrap  bag  or  box  for  the  blackest 
things  and  for  scouring.  The  sink  and  other  drains 
should  be  scalded  with  strong,  hot  lye  suds  or  other  good 
strong  suds ;  lye  alone  is  very  effective,  but  let  it  stand 
for  a  while  without  running  water  through. 

If  the  sink  is  old-fashioned,  the  woodwork  can  be  pro- 
tected by  the  use  of  white  oil  cloth  tacked  just  above  it, 
bring  it  down  over  the  edge  so  that  all  water  splashed, 
will  drip  into  the  sink  and  not  on  the  woodwork.  Let 
everything  in  the  kitchen  have  its  proper  place  and  keep 
everything  in  that  place.  This  is  a  nerve  saving  method 
and  a  promoter  of  health. 

The  selection  of  a  range,  whether  gas  or  coal,  should 
be  careful,  plain,  practical  and  easy  to  take  care  of.  If 
a  gas  range,  get  one  that  requires  the  least  stooping; 
if  a  coal  range,  see  that  the  floor  is  protected  against 
ashes  and  coals  falling  when  the  ash  pan  is  removed. 
It  is  well  to  get  one  that  the  fire  box  can  be  raked  out 
from  underneath  by  means  of  a  door  in  the  front.  Many 
of  the  steel  ranges  lack  this.  No  matter  what  kind  of  a 
gasoline  or  kerosene  stove  is  used,  the  burners  should  be 
well  cleaned  with  hot  suds.  Most  burners  can  be  re- 
moved and  put  into  the  suds.  Tooth  picks  and  matches 
aid  in  keeping  them  open. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  233 


LAUNDRY 


TO  WASH  FLANNELS 

The  secret  of  drying  clothes  in  winter  is  to  get  them 
on  the  line  as  early  in  the  morning  as  possible,  and  the 
earlier  they  are  hung  in  the  summer  time,  the  whiter 
and  cleaner  looking  they'll  be,  as  the  atmosphere  has 
cleaner  and  better  drying  properties  then  than  any  other 
part  of  the  day.  Putting  on  the  line  quite  wet  at  night 
in  the  summer  time  and  let  hang  all  night  will  often  re- 
move stains  and  whiten  them. 

The  secret  of  washing  flannels  is  not  to  put  them  in 
either  too  hot  or  too  cold  water.  If  ironed,  which  a  few 
need,  as  outside  flannel  waists,  etc.,  have  the  iron  hot, 
but  not  quite  as  hot  as  for  starch  clothes,  and  iron  on 
the  wrong  side,  where  there  is  no  lining,  otherwise  fancy 
things  look  better  if  pressed  under  damp  cheese  cloth. 
This  gives  them  a  new  appearance  while  the  direct  iron 
upon  them,  makes  them  look  shiny. 

Before  starting  to  wash  them,  have  three  tubs  or  pans, 
two  containing  suds  and  one  rinsing  water,  all  of  nearly 
the  same  temperature  which  is  a  good  luke  warm.  The 
rinsing  water  need  not  necessarily  be  warm;  it  may  be 
softened  with  borax  or  ammonia.  Either  ivory  soap  or 
wool  soap  sliced  into  a  kettle  and  melted  on  back  of 
range  to  make  the  suds,  putting  half  in  each  tub,  is  best 
for  wools.  The  common  laundry  soap  shrinks  them. 
Slush  through  the  first  suds  with  little  machine,  say  about 
four  minutes,  without  rubbing  soap  on  them,  except  a 
little  Fels  Naptha  on  the  stains  and  grease  spots,  if  any. 
Wring  with  the  wringer  into  the  second  suds,  slush  a 
little  more,  turn  wrong  side  out  and  wring  into  the  rins- 


234  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

ing  water.  Rinse  well  and  wring  with  the  wringer 
screwed  rather  tight.  The  tighter  they  are  wrung  the 
cleaner  they  look.  Shake  well  and  if  the  thermometer  is 
below  freezing  point  they  should  be  hung  in  the  house, 
though  one  should  avoid  doing  this  as  much  as  possible 
by  picking  out  a  day  that  they  can  be  hung  out  at  least 
for  an  hour  or  so  before  hanging  in  the  house.  Even 
if  dried  in  the  house,  they  should  be  hung  out  before  or 
after  drying.  Avoid  freezing  if  possible.  Any  clothes 
dry  faster  in  the  house  if  first  hung  out  of  doors  an  hour 
or  two  of  the  day.  If  a  piece  happens  to  be  very  dirty, 
as  baby's  play  coat,  a  little  of  the  suds  can  be  put  in  a 
pail  or  dish  pan  for  third  sudsing. 

Flannels  are  expensive  and  it  pays  to  be  a  little  fussy 
with  them.  If  cared  for  in  this  way,  they  will  last  two 
or  three  seasons,  according  to  one's  occupation. 

Some  of  the  heavy  dress  goods,  as  serge,  can  be  washed 
in  this  way,  without  injury.  Cravenette  coats  wash  very 
nicely,  also  black  broadcloth ;  the  broadcloth  will  shrink 
a  little. 

Never  hang  any  kind  of  clothes  in  the  very  hot  sun; 
hence  early  morning  is  best.  The  shade  is  best,  if  hung 
out  at  noon  in  warm  summer.  Always  loosen  the  roll- 
ers on  a  clothes  wringer  before  putting  away. 

AN  EASY  METHOD  FOR  REGULAR  WASHING 

Soak  clothes  about  fifteen  minutes  in  cold  water.  Add 
a  good  kettle  of  hot  suds  made  with  Lenox  or  some  good 
soap.  Slush  about  three  or  four  minutes.  Rub  real 
soiled  spots  with  Fels  Naptha.  Wring  into  second  tub 
and  pour  over  them  real  hot,  but  not  boiling,  suds  made 
with  Galvanic  soap  (about  a  bar  to  a  tub  of  clothes). 
Slush  about  a  minute  to  distribute  suds  evenly  througii 
clothes.  Then  cover  and  let  stand  fifteen  to  thirty  min- 
utes— depends  on  how  dirty ;  then  slush  well  for  four  or 
five  minutes.     Add  more  water  if  it  is  necessary  so  they 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  235 

S 
will  slush  easily.  Rinse  twice,  though  the  first  pieces 
will  do  with  one  rinsing,  but  as  the  water  gets  sudsy, 
the  last  need  another  rinsing;  they  should  be  rinsed  and 
shook  well,  which  makes  them  iron  easier.  Where  the 
bath  tub  can  be  used  for  rinsing,  the  clothes  can  be  just 
lifted  from  the  hot  suds  without  wringing,  into  a  small 
tub  or  large  pan  of  cold  water,  then  wrung  lightly  from 
that  into  the  rinsing  water,  one  can  save  lots  of  suds  in 
this  way  and  this  suds  is  very  nice  for  the  first  washing 
of  colored  or  very  dirty  pieces. 

Ammonia,  or  borax,  can  be  added  to  the  rinsing  water 
when  one  can't  get  soft  water.  This  is  an  excellent 
method  and  does  not  rot  or  wear  the  clothes.  No  rub- 
bing to  speak  of,  no  boiling  and  no  "dead"  fatigue  when 
done.  Where  it  is  necessary  to  boil,  keep  doors  leading 
to  other  part  of  the  house  closed,  to  keep  out  dampness 
and  a  window  open  will  let  out  the  vapor  and  keep  the 
kitchen  or  laundry  drier  and  healthier. 

It  is  better  for  the  hands  and  better  for  the  clothes, 
to  rinse  in  warm  water.  If  the  day  is  stormy,  they  can 
stand  all  night  either  in  the  galvanic  suds  or  the  rinsing 
water.  In  the  morning,  add  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and 
pounce  with  the  machine  a  little. 

Oftentimes  stains  will  not  come  out  on  the  wash- 
board, as  feet  of  socks,  etc.,  which  will  come  out  by 
rubbing  the  goods  in  single  thickness  between  the 
hands,  with  plenty  of  Fels  Naptha. 

TO  MAKE  STARCH 

Cold  Starch  is  simply  made  with  about  a  teaspoonful 
of  starch  and  half  a  cup  of  luke  warm  water ;  add  a  little 
borax.  Dip  the  parts  to  be  starched  and  fold  in  cloth 
for  an  hour  or  so  before  ironing. 

Boiled — Blend  starch  in  a  bowl  with  a  little  borax  and 
cold  water ;  stir  into  boiling  water  as  blending  flour  into 


236  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

gravy  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  remove.  This  method 
never  fails. 

When  there  are  a  number  of  things  to  starch,  put  in 
tub  and  put  through  wringer.  Never  let  clothes  freeze 
after  starching.  On  cold  days,  things  to  be  starched 
should  be  hung  out  with  the  rest  of  clothes  and  starched 
after  they  are  brought  in.  Shaking  of  clothes  is  half  of 
the  ironing  done. 

Dampen  over  night  is  best  as  the  dampness  has  time 
to  even,  owing  to  the  law  of  capillary  attraction,  and  they 
iron  easier.  Wools  need  only  be  wrapped  in  very  damp 
cloths  or  towels  as  they  absorb  moisture  very  readily. 

Not  necessary  to  dampen  sheets  and  pillow  cases, 
baby's  napkins,  everyday  towels,  etc.,  as  it  only  takes  a 
few  minutes  to  run  the  iron  over  them  and  fold  while 
one  is  dampening  the  clothes.  They  may  be  sort  of 
folded  with  iron  so  they  can  be  put  away,  as  these  things 
are  really  better  not  ironed. 

A  damp  towel  thrown  over  basket  or  wrapped  around 
starch  clothes,  helps  to  make  the  dampness  even.  The 
tighter  rolled  the  more  even  dampness,  though  not  nec- 
essary to  roll  so  tight  if  they  stand  all  night.  If  too 
damp,  they  iron  stiff  instead  of  soft. 

Ribbons  should  be  real  damp  and  if  ironed  with  a 
moderate  iron  will  keep  their  new  look  for  a  long  time. 

As  the  hands  are  usually  sore  and  tender  after  wash- 
ing, a  small  whisk  broom  is  very  nice  for  sprinkling  or 
a  very  small  sprinkling  can,  either  sprinkles  more 
evenly  than  the  hand. 

LAUNDRY  UTENSILS 

A  table  about  as  large  as  an  ordinary  kitchen  table. 

A  large  dipper  or  medium  sized,  clean,  granite  kettle 
used  as  such. 

A  gravy  strainer  to  strain  the  melted  soap  with  if  in 
a  hurry  with  a  few  pieces  and  can't  wait  for  it  all  to 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  237 

melt.  Cheese  cloth  or  towel  is  better  for  straining 
water. 

A  little  slusher  washing  machine  which  resembles  an 
inverted  funnel,  with  a  handle  on  it.  An  old  broom 
handle  is  fine  for  those  little  machines.  These  little  ma- 
chines are  excellent  for  rinsing  as  they  take  all  the  suds 
out  of  the  clothes. 

A  clothes  wringer  with  or  without  folding  bench,  with 
the  widest  rollers  that  can  be  bought  at  a  reasonable  cost, 
which  is  eleven  inches.  There  are  wider  ones,  fourteen 
inches,  but  the  price  is  beyond  most  people's  purse,  being 
about  fourteen  to  sixteen  dollars.  The  wider  the  better 
for  bed  pads,  blankets,  rugs,  etc,  which  can  be  wrung 
more  easily. 

Especially  valuable  on  a  farm  where  there  are  so  many 
horse  blankets  and  blankets  to  cover  milk,  overalls,  etc. 

Two  tubs  will  do,  but  three  are  more  convenient. 

A  wash  bench  where  the  wringer  has  not  a  folding 
bench,  and  an  old  chair. 

A  large  pail  and  a  dish  pan. 

A  wash  board,  three  ironing  boards — one  large,  six 
and  one-half  feet  by  fourteen  inches,  which  is  fine  for 
the  large  pieces,  one  small  one  and  a  sleeve  board 
which  can  be  used  to  take  the  place  of  the  small  board. 
The  small  board  is  handy  when  sewing  and  when  iron- 
ing baby's  dresses,  etc. 

A  little  cupboard  made  of  a  box,  to  keep  laundry  things 
in,  such  as  borax,  ammonia,  etc. 

A  small  scrubbing  or  hand  brush  to  scrub  the  most 
soiled  parts  of  overalls  or  greasy  spots  on  heavy  pieces. 

A  tiny  wash  board  and  little  brush  are  nice  for  the 
everyday  washing  of  baby's  napkins. 

A  bottle  of  ammonia  (Household)  ;  also  a  small  bottle 
of  the  spirits  of  ammonia  (Hartshorn). 

Very  heavy  rugs  can  be  rinsed  with  the  little 
slusher  machine  in  a  tub  of  water  out  of  doors,  and  hung 


238  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  shady  place,  or  all  night  to  drain  without  wringing ; 
when  well  drained  they  can  be  pinned  on  line.  They 
should  first  -be  scrubbed  with  good  suds  on  the  floor, 
either  using  broom  or  scrubbing  brush,  or  across  the 
board  on  a  tub.  If  done  on  the  floor,  use  plenty  of  news- 
papers so  as  not  to  injure  varnish  or  linoleum.  This 
means  cheap  rugs  used  for  kitchen,  bathroom,  cellar- 
way,  etc. 

FLATIRONS 

These  will  not  do  good  work  unless  scoured  occa- 
sionally with  ashes  or  sapolio  and  rubbed  often  with 
kerosene.  It  is  good  for  both  irons  and  clothes  to  not 
put  the  irons  directly  on  the  gas  and  use  the  gas  as  low 
as  will  do  good  work.  Most  all  hardwares  have  excellent 
gas  savers. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS 

Soap  sets  ink  and  other  acid  stains. 

For  ink  stains,  the  process  of  removal  must  be  re- 
peated again  and  again.  Ink  should  be  removed  while 
wet,  by  dipping  in  pure  spirits  of  ammonia  and  rinsing. 
Repeat  till  finished.  If  the  ink  has  become  dry,  satur- 
ate with  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  and  rub  salt  in,  changing 
clothes  and  salt  very  often ;  hang  in  the  sun  and  keep 
moist  by  repeating  hourly  this  treatment.  At  night  soak 
in  clear,  soft  water.  Next  day  wash  in  the  usual  way, 
adding  a  little  kerosene  to  the  suds.  Repeated  doses  of 
sweet  milk  is  also  good.  A  rug  ink  stain  will  yield  to 
repeated  doses  of  vinegar,  rubbing  out  with  dry  salt. 

Iron  rust  requires  the  same  treatment. 

Javelle  water  and  oxalic  acid  will  draw  out  the  color 
and  weaken  the  goods  if  not  rinsed  quickly  and  carefully 
after  using.  It  is  more  harmful  than  the  more  simple 
remedies. 

Sweet  or  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk,  fresh,  will  remove 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  239 

ink  stains  if  the  milk  is  changed  about  every  fifteen  to 
thirty  minutes.  It  takes  two  to  three  hours,  the  milk 
being  only  a  little  colored  each  time. 

Cream  of  tartar  rubbed  in  with  hot  water  and  repeated 
in  the  sun,  as  with  lemon  juice  and  salt,  is  also  a  good 
remedy  but  rather  slow.  After  repeating,  run  a  stream 
of  boiling  water  through  and  repeat.  If  not  removed 
first  day,  soak  all  night  in  clear  water  and  repeat  second 
day. 

An  ink  stain  on  a  rug  can  be  removed  by  sponging  well 
with  skimmed  milk,  using  only  one  cup  at  a  time,  and 
changing  the  milk  as  soon  as  discolored. When  the  milk 
does  not  darken  any  more,  then  rinse  with  clear,  warm 
water  and  cover  with  corn  starch,  let  stand  for  a  day  or 
two  till  it  can  be  brushed  off  dry.    Benzine  is  good. 

Stir  about  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  into  a 
quart  or  more  of  water  and  boil  rusty  white  things  in 
it,  and  the  rust  will  disappear.  Repeat  the  process  if 
necessary. 

Coffee,  tea  and  fruit  stains  can  be  removed  very  quick- 
ly by  stretching  the  garment"  over  a  basin  or  tub  and 
pouring  boiling  water  through  it.  If  the  stain  does  not 
yield  to  this,  then  the  lemon  juice  treatment  will  remove 
it.  Sometimes  borax  water  used  as  the  lemon  juice  and 
salt  is  very  effective. 

TO  WASH  A  MAN'S  BEST  SUIT 

For  the  pants  follow  the  rules  for  flannels.  Coat  and 
vest  can  be  sponged,  but  not  dipped,  in  two  or  three 
clean  suds  and  two  or  three  warm  rinsing  waters  with 
ammonia.  Let  hang  outdoors  in  shade  till  about  half 
dry,  have  ready  a  roll  of  five  or  six  pieces  of  cheese  cloth 
which  have  been  dampened  the  night  before.  Press  the 
suit  under  these,  but  never  put  the  iron  directly  on  them. 
The  padded  part  of  coat  sleeves  can  be  pressed  with  a 
rolling  pin  or  sleeve  board.     They  will  look  like  new. 


240  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Use  heavy  irons  and  considerable  strength.  They  must 
be  first  brushed  well,  turning  the  pockets.  The  pants 
should  be  creased  down  the  front — just  put  a  little  extra 
dampness  on  cheese  cloth  at  the  crease. 

To  press  pants  not  washed,  first  brush,  turning  wrong 
side  out.  Take  the  bag  out  of  the  knees  by  pressing  a 
little  on  the  wrong  side,  then  turn  right  side  out  and  pro- 
ceed, putting  seams  together  and  pressing  the  inner  side 
of  legs  first.  Put  legs  together  and  give  the  outside  of 
legs  just  a  little  pressing.  Hang  upside  down  in  just 
this  shape.  If  always  so  hung  they  will  keep  this  shape 
for  almost  six  months  where  one  is  careful  of  their 
clothes. 

BABY'S  COATS  AND  HOOD 

Follow  the  rules  for  flannels,  only  use  three  suds  if 
necessary,  and  some  add  a  tablespoonful  or  so  of  tur- 
pentine also  a  little  borax  or  ammonia,  or  both,  to  the 
rinsing  water. 

NEW  WASH  DRESSES 

Turpentine  and  salt  will  sometimes  set  colors  before 
washing  new  figured  dress  goods.  Let  soak  one-half  to 
one  hour. 

TO  WASH  LACE  CURTAINS 

Rinse  two  or  three  times  in  cold  water  and  proceed  as 
with  regular  washing.  Hang  out,  when  dry,  bring  in, 
starch  and  stretch. 

Four  will  dry  in  about  a  half  to  one  hour.  If  in  haste 
they  £an  be  washed  and  put  back  on  window  in  one  hour. 

CLOTHES  BARS 

Take  four  or  five  little  poles,  say  about  three-fourths 
inch  in  diameter  and  six  and  one-half  or  seven  feet  long, 
and  arrange  side  by  side  about  six  inches  apart ;  fasten 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  241 

both  ends  of  each  one,  into  an  inch  board,  about  two 
inches  wide  and  two  feet  long.  This  makes  a  frame 
having  as  much  room  for  clothes  as  any  common  clothes 
bars.  Then  attach  to  the  ceiling,  by  means  of  pulleys 
and  hooks,  as  near  to  the  stove  as  possible,  having  one 
pulley  near  a  door  or  window,  so  that  the  rope  can  be 
brought  over  it  and  tied  on  a  hook  below  or  at  any  con- 
venient-height to  handle.  The  bars  can  be  raised  or  low- 
ered by  means  of  this  rope. 

The  law  of  heat  is  that  it  rises  above  the  cold  air,  so 
the  higher  the  clothes,  the  faster  they  dry;  they  are  also 
up  out  of  the  way.  It  works  on  the  same  principle  as  a 
hay  fork,  only  it  needs  more  pulleys  to  balance. 

HINTS 

PJnsing  in  warm  or  even  very  hot  water  and  let  stand 
a  few  minutes,  will  whiten  clothes.  Wringing  real  tight 
also  tends  to  whiten. 

A  wringer  is  best  for  flannels  or  any  nice  piece  as  the 
hands  pull  them  out  of  shape  more  or  less. 

POCKET  ON  IRONING  BOARD 

Tack  or  pin  a  large  pocket  of  white  goods  doubled  at 
the  wide  end  of  the  ironing  board,  to  keep  stand,  holder, 
wax  and  cleaning  rags  in.  It  is  well  to  keep  the  wax 
tied  in  a  corner  of  a  rag.  Ends  of  paraffin  candles  are 
nice  to  clean  irons. 

The  ironing  board  can  be  placed  on  two  strong  hooks 
or  pegs  about  three  inches  from  the  floor.  It  is  better 
for  the  board  and  saves  moving  it  when  wiping  up 
floor.    Floor  dust  is  hard  on  anything. 

If  starch  should  get  lumpy,  strain. 

To  save  gas  on  ironing,  don't  fold  clothes  till  you  are 
through.  Turn  gas  low  and  go  to  rest  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes;  when  you  come  back  irons  will  be  hot.  Save 
self  as  well  as  gas. 

16 


242  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

To  hang  little  things  out  in  winter,  pin  with  new  pins 
onto  towels  before  going  out ;  this  saves  the  hands  and 
the  hard  work  of  getting  them  off  the  line  after  freez- 
ing. Short  lines  may  be  taken  down  carefully  and  the 
clothes  taken  off  after  being  brought  in  in  freezing 
weather.  Save  both  hands  and  clothes.  Thick  cotton 
flannel  makes  good  mittens  for  hanging  clothes.  Two 
or  three  pairs  are  none  too  much ;  they  are  easily 
washed  and  kept  clean. 

Clothes  line  can  be  washed  in  hot  suds,  put  in  a  cheese 
cloth  bag,  and  hang  on  the  line  to  dry.  If  kept  in  a 
clean  bag  it  need  not  be  washed  more  than  once  or  twice 
a   year. 

If  lace  curtains  must  be  pinned  on  the  floor,  they  can 
be  dried  quickly  by  using  a  hot  iron. 

Use  quilting  frame  with  sheet  for  stretching. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  243 


TO  RID  THE  HOUSE  OF  PESTS 


Rule  for  methods — "search  and  you  will  find,"  perse- 
vere and  you  will  conquer.  Go  after  pests  as  a  hunter 
goes  after  his  game. 

Flies — "What  is  home  by  flies  infested ;  'tis  a  torture 
place  congested."  To  get  rid  of  these  is  not  much  trouble 
if  carefully  managed  and  made  easy  to  attend  to.  One 
housekeeper  darkens  the  kitchen  and  living  room  about 
four  o'clock  p.  m.,  which  is  their  hungry  time.  One  ray 
of  sunshine  is  allowed  to  shine  on  a  plate  spread  with 
poisoned  paper  and  sweetened  water  (set  on  newspaper 
spread  out  to  hold  the  dead  flies)  ;  this  is  very  effective 
if  paper  is  doubled  or  tripled.  Every  fly  indoors  finds 
this  tempting  dish  (especially  a  day  before  a  storm  when 
they  are  so  stingy),  and  in  a  short  time  the  house  is 
cleared  of  flies  for  that  day.  The  fresher  the  paper  the 
better-;  change  at  least  every  third  day. 

The  brown  fly  paper  to  be  moistened  is  the  best  remedy 
of  all  if  properly  used.  All  that  remains  when  evening 
comes  can  be  killed  in  a  few  moments  with  a  little  fly 
killer. 

Plates  of  well  moistened  doubled  or  tripled  fly  paper 
placed  outside  the  kitchen  door  set  on  shelves  above 
head  level,  or  boxes  opening  out,  that  is  the  bottom 
tacked  to  side  of  house.  It  should  be  moistened  two 
or  three  times  a  day  in  hot  weather  and  changed  and 
cleaned  every  other  day.  The  open  boxes  are  better 
than  the  shelves  as  they  protect  the  paper  from  the 
sun.  The  dead  flies  can  be  brushed  up  two  or  three 
times  a  day,  rolled  in  a  piece  of  newspaper  securely 
and  put  in  kitchen  waste  basket  to  be  burned. 


244  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Where  there  is  a  porch,  part  of  it  should  be  screened, 
as  flies  will  gather  under  the  roof.  Some  tack  strips  of 
paper  to  the  screen  door,  but  this  is  not  very  effective, 
except  on  windy  days.  Wipe  the  screen  off  with  kero- 
sene. 

Another  method  is  to  place  saucers  of  cold  water  with 
a  pinch  of  quasia  chips  in  it,  in  every  window.  This  only 
needs  changing  twice  a  week.  It  is  clean,  non-poisonous, 
and  costs  but  little.  Quasia  cups  can  be  bought  at  a 
druggist's  for  a  few  cents  apiece.  One  is  probably 
enough  for  a  season,  chipping  it  as  needed.  Two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  formaldehyde  in  one  pint  of  water  placed 
on  plates  or  saucers  is  also  very  good. 

Another  method  used  by  a  thrifty  housekeeper, 
which  is  very  good  where  there  is  much  running  in 
and  out  of  doors.  Lay  doubled  or  tripled  fly  paper 
moistened  well  in  sweetened  water,  on  both  middle 
and  lower  part  of  windows,  on  a  double  layer  of  good 
quality  of  paraffin  paper,  to  protect  paint  or  varnish. 
The  paraffln  paper  can  be  sort  of  bent  up  to  form  a 
little  pan.  Wet  two  or  three  times  a  day  as  required, 
best  late  at  night  so  flies  will  get  it  early  in  the  morn- 
ing. This  is  an  excellent  method,  as  at  night  scarcely 
a  fly  will  be  seen  on  the  ceiling.  They  are  easily 
brushed  on  a  dust  pan  with  a  quill  or  whisk  broom. 
The  windows  get  soiled  soon,  but  it  is  easier  to  wipg 
those  with  a  damp  cloth  than  to  be  tormented  with 
the  dirty  pests. 

It  is  worse  than  useless  to  brush  them  or  chase  them 
out  of  the  house,  as  the  next  day  the  same  are  back 
again  with  a  few  more,  and  the  day  after  more  still, 
till  the  house  is  soon  a  fly  cage.  The  fly  cage  helps  a 
little.  Every  little  helps.  At  a  picnic  the  tablecloth 
can  be  sprayed  with  a  little  water  in  which  is  some  oil 
of  lavender. 

When  we  consider  that  flies  only  move  about  three 
or  four  hundred  yards  from  where  they  breed,  it  is  an 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  245 

easy  matter  to  get  rid  of  them  if  yards  are  kept  clean 
and  everyone  does  their  part  towards  killing  them; 
and  if  true  that  they  breed  only  in  horse  manure,  why 
not  disinfect  the  stable  once  or  twice  a  week  and  not 
have  any  at  all,  as  in  the  city  of  Paris,  Flies  are  a  dis- 
grace to  any  house  or  community.  In  the  autumn 
when  they  are  so  bad,  they  should  be  swept  down  from 
the  porches  on  cold  mornings  and  burned.  This  can 
be  done  oftentimes  in  September.  Burn  pyrethum 
powder  in  the  house.  It  will  kill  most  of  the  flies,  and 
those  it  does  not,  will  fall  stunned,  when  they  may  be 
swept  up  and  burned.  A  mignonette  plant  kept  in 
the  room  is  also  an  enemy  to  the  flies — a  drop  of  oil 
of  lavender  in  a  bowl  of  water  helps  also. 

Sticky  fly  paper  is  a  second  rate  destroyer.  It  will 
kill  almost  four  times  as  many  flies  if  bent  over  a  cup 
or  rolled  and  the  edges  trimmed  ofif.  It  can  now  be 
bought  with  a  sort  of  little  pasteboard  pan  for  rolling. 
It  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and  should  not 
stand  longer  than  two  days  in  use  unless  weather  is 
cool.  Little  boards  of  convenient  size  can  be  kept  to 
tack  it  on  to  keep  it  from  blowing  onto  things  and  do 
damage.  Tack  newspaper  with  it.  If  it  does  get  on 
anything,  kerosene  will  remove  it  easily. 

Make  a  frame  and  cover  with  wire  or  mosquito  net- 
ting to  put  over  the  baby  when  sleeping  out  of  doors. 
This  should  be  washed  often  and  kept  very  clean  so 
that  baby  will  have  clean,  fresh  air. 

The  little  hand  fly  killers  will  soon  finish  all  that  any 
of  the  foregoing  rules  don't;  especially  valuable  in  the 
sick  room.  A  folded  paper  makes  a  fair  fly  killer.  Let 
everybody  join  hands  and  get  rid  of  the  flies  and 
thereby  help  all  the  good  associations  to  get  rid  of 
tuberculosis,  typhoid,  etc.  Use  all  the  methods  com- 
bined. Get  rid  of  them!  "A  fly  killed  in  April  is  worth  a 
million  in  July." 

Mosquitoes.     In    the    South    a    layer    of    pebbles    is 


246  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

placed  in  the  bottom  of  several  medium  sized  flower 
pots.  Pieces  of  moistened  blotting  paper  liberally- 
sprinkled  with  pyrethum  powder  are  dropped  on  top 
of  the  pebbles  and  lighted.  The  result  will  be  a  smould- 
ering flame.  These  may  be  placed  out  doors  wherever 
you  wish  to  sit,  or  it  will  be  an  easy  matter  to  clear  a 
room  of  mosquitoes  in  a  short  time,  with  the  fumes 
from  the  flower  pot. 

A  smudge  of  this  kind  does  not  make  any  dirt  and 
the  mosquitoes  are  soon  overcome  with  the  fumes. 

The  castor  oil  plant  is  grown  upon  some  lawns. 
When  retiring,  take  a  leaf  and  bruise  it  so  as  to  bring 
out  the  odor.  Wave  it  a  minute  or  so  to  fill  the  air 
with  it,  when  the  mosquitoes  will  soon  disappear.  If 
only  a  few  in  the  house,  slap  with  a  paper  and  burn. 

ANTS 

There  are  several  remedies  for  ants, 

1.  To  keep  them  off  the  porches,  swab  the  under 
part  with  kerosene  or  oil  of  sassafras. 

2.  Place  a  spoonful  or  so  of  paragoric  in  a  saucer 
on  the  shelf. 

3.  Mix  plaster  of  paris  and  sugar  among  dry  gro- 
ceries. 

4.  Put  bruised  tansy  leaves  on  the  shelf.  Keep 
some  in  a  fruit  jar  on  purpose  for  them. 

5.  Dash  red  pepper  here  and  there. 

6.  Put  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  sugar  in  a  heap  in 
icebox  or  on  shelf  and  when  they  gather,  throw  about 
a  half  cup  or  less  of  boiling  water  on  them;  wipe  up 
quickly  with  a  rag  and  burn.  Repeat  the  next  day  or 
perhaps  the  third  day.    They  won't  bother  much  more. 

Follow  them  to  their  nests  out  of  doors  and  put  kero- 
sene on  their  nests. 

Fleas. — If  the  poor  house  dog  or  cat  is  afflicted,  get 
a  good  flea  soap  from  the  druggist  and  use  it  for  his 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  247 

bath  with  good  warm  water  and  plenty  of  room  to 
souse  him  good,  being  careful  of  his  eyes.  A  foot 
bathtub  does  very  well  if  animal  is  not  too  large. 

If  this  does  not  finish  the  fleas,  after  a  few  days  of 
treatment,  then  resort  to  a  careful  use  of  kerosene, 
being  careful  not  to  blister,  as  their  coats  are  rather 
thick.  Rub  carefully  over  the  top  of  the  fur.  They 
should  be  kept  out  of  doors  as  much  as  possible. 

If  they  should  get  on  the  sheets,  roll  the  sheet  up 
carefully  and  stick  into  hot  water,  as  it  is  almost  im- 
possible to  catch  them.  If  very  bad,  use  plenty  of 
green  pennyroyal,  especially  on  floors,  and  let  stand 
till  it  begins  to  dry,  then  gather  up  and  burn.  Then 
wipe  up  floors  and  closets  with  warm  water  in  which 
is  a  little  oil  of  pennyroyal.  Put  plenty  of  sticky  fly 
paper  under  the  beds,  dressers,  etc. 

Lice. — Another  pest  the  housemother  must  watch 
for  in  the  children.  Three  daily  treatments  of  kero- 
sene, fine  comb  and  newspapers  (  to  prevent  them  from 
getting  on  anything  else),  will  silence  one's  worry  on 
that  point.  Do  not  bandage  the  head  or  the  kerosene 
will  blister.    Kerosene  is  good  for  the  hair. 

Another  method — Rub  on  tincture  of  quasia  on  the 
scalp  and  tie  towel  on  at  night.  In  the  morning  the 
towel  only  needs  attention.  Take  off  with  care  and 
put  into  a  bowl  of  hot  water. 

Bed  Bugs. — Handle  bed  bugs  as  you  would  cut  glass 
as  it  is  easy  to  carry  them  from  room  to  room.  Gaso- 
line will  not  injure  your  beds;  put  on  plenty,  shut  the 
doors  and  windows  and  get  out  of  the  room.  Let 
stand  as  long  as  you  can  and  go  back,  open  up  and 
brush  onto  newspaper  any  that  you  may  find,  and 
burn.  Repeat  this  treatment  once  or  twice  if  neces- 
sary, about  a  week  apart. 

The  careful  use  of  a  good  poison  with  a  little  oil  can 
which  penetrates  all  the  crevices  and  pesky  places  and 


248  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

the  inside  of  loose  mop-boards  or  cracks  in  the  wall, 
will  banish  them  if  used  once  or  twice  a  week  till  the 
last  trace  disappears,  and  it  is  well  to  use  it  once  or 
twice  a  year,  if  none  are  seen.  It  is  not  necessary  to 
ruin  varnish  or  mattresses.  And  before  papering  or 
morescoing  a  wall,  dose  the  cracks  and  holes,  for  if 
eggs  are  there,  they  will  work  out  through  either  paper 
or  moresco. 

Moths — Drop  little  cotton  balls  with  a  few  drops 
of  oil  of  cedar  here  and  there,  into  closets,  boxes, 
rooms,  drawers,  and  any  place  they  might  be  found. 

Rats  and  Mice — The  poisoning  of  these  is  not  a 
good  thing  as  they  die  in  the  house.  The  best  is  to 
smoke  or  scald  the  traps.  Tie  on  the  bait,  cover  with 
a  cloth  loosely  and  keep  up  banishing  them.  Where 
there  are  a  great  number,  use  the  wire  cage  for  rats. 
Keep  food  under  lock  and  key  and  they  will  go  for  the 
bait.  The  work  gets  monotonous,  but  they  are  so  de- 
structive and  annoying  that  it  pays  to  keep  at  it  every 
few  weeks. 

Cockroaches — Keep  sink  and  all  drains  well  scalded. 
Some  sprinkle  borax  around  where  they  may  be.  A 
dry,  well  lighted  house  and  cellar  is  seldom  troubled 
with  these.  Some  druggists  prepare  a  powder  to  ban- 
ish them. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  249 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 


"Cleanliness  is  next  to  Godliness" 

To  remedy  damp  salt  so  that  it  will  shake  from  the 
shaker,  warm  in  the  oven,  or  mix  it  well  with  a  little 
flour  or  corn  starch.  An  inverted  tumbler  over  the 
salt  cellar  will  keep  it  from  getting  damp.  Roll  after 
drying  in  the  oven. 

Newspapers  are  invaluable  in  the  kitchen.  A  rack 
or  shelf  should  be  kept  on  purpose  for  them,  and  if 
folded  separately  when  placed  on  the  rack,  are  more 
convenient  when  needed  in  a  hurry.  Great  dirt  and 
labor  savers,  also  for  warmth  and  coolness. 

The  clean  papers  from  groceries  can  also  be  folded 
and  placed  with  them.  They  are  very  nice  to  wrap 
bricks  in  to  warm  a  bed,  and  other  purposes.  The 
newspapers,  no  matter  how  clean,  will  color  the  sheets. 

Bricks  warmed  in  the  oyen,  are  better  than  flatirons 
or  stove  covers.  They  have  no  ill  effect  on  the  body, 
while  iron  has. 

A  few  of  the  uses  of  newspapers  : — ^To  clean  fowls  on ; 
peel  onions  on  them  and  roll  up  and  burn  the  skins; 
to  roll  the  dirtiest  dirt  from  the  sink  in  or  any  dirty 
rags,  and  burn ;  to  lay  upon  the  kitchen  table  to  clean 
and  polish  kettles,  spiders,  lamps,  and  so  forth,  on ; 
to  wrap  coal  in  and  put  in  the  stove  where  there  is  a 
sick  person,  (prevents  noise)  ;  to  wipe  off  the  top  of 
the  stove,  though  an  old  stocking  just  touched  with 
kerosene  keeps  a  range  in  excellent  condition  and 
does  away  with  a  great  part  of  the  miserable  process 
of  stove  blackening  which  should  be  used  just  as  little 
as  possible  and  as  sparingly  as  possible ;  to  handle  soft 


250  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

coal  with  to  save  the  hands ;  to  wipe  hairs  and  threads 
from  the  broom  onto  another  paper  or  into  waste 
basket  while  sweeping,  and  catch  the  "puff"  balls;  to 
lay  the  dirt  on  while  cleaning,  which  can  be  rolled  up 
and  quickly  put  in  stove  without  smoking  the  house 
or  making  unnecessary  dust,  of  which  there  will  be 
plenty  without  making  extra;  to  save  furniture  when 
it  is  necessary  to  set  anything  on  it,  though  not  suffi- 
cient protection  for  hot  things  unless  very  thick,  as  an 
old  magazine;  old  magazines  are  nice  to  use  for  hot 
flatirons  when  ironing;  to  lay  over  the  back  of  var- 
nished chairs  when  it  is  necessary  to  hang  an  ironed 
piece  on  it,  as  a  shirt  waist;  to  change  or  lay  dirty 
shoes  or  clothes  on  when  a  man  comes  in  from  the 
barn  or  factory,  thereby  saving  both  floors  and  hard 
labor;  to  wrap  comforters  and  blankets  in  to  protect 
from  dust  where  one  has  not  enough  drawers,  shirt 
waist  boxes,  etc. ;  better  dust  proof  if  tied  up  neatly. 
Wrap  with  wool  things,  a  few  cotton  balls  with  a  few 
drops  of  oil  of  cedar  in  little  paper  bags,  which  protects 
them  from  moths  when  stored  away  in  summer.  White 
things  should  have  a  layer  of  white  paper  first,  as  the 
ink  might  color  them.  Wrapped  over  a  tender  or  sore 
limb  or  arm  outside  of  the  dressings,  several  thick- 
nesses are  as  warm  as  a  buffalo  robe  for  a  long,  cold' 
drive;  to  protect  chest  and  ankles  on  a  cold  windy  day; 
put  upon  the  bed  when  short  of  bedclothes,  to  sleep 
with  the  open  window;  to  pin  around  the  sink  and  back 
of  the  bath  tub  or  range  where  grease  spatters,  to  pro- 
tect the  wall,  and  where  spiders  or  any  cooking  dishes 
are  hung;  to  protect  the  floor  where  the  kerosene  can 
sits,  better  wrapped  around  a  little  board;  to  protect 
mattresses  from  rusty  springs  or  the  upper  part  from 
soil,  though  old  pieces  of  cloth  or  flour  bags  are  better 
for  this  purpose ;  should  be  neatly  washed  and  sewed 
together  to  fit;  to  use  around  the  stove  when  taking 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  251 

out  ashes ;  to  use  under  the  mop  pail ;  to  drain  the 
broom  upon,  also  the  scrubbing  brushes ;  to  swish  a 
wet  broom  upon  when  brushing  up  a  carpet  or  rug, 
the  broom  can  be  made  dry  enough  that  it  will  not  in- 
jure or  dampen  the  rug  in  the  least.  This  method 
cleans  the  rug  nicely  if  a  little  warm  ammonia  or  borax 
water  is  used  for  the  broom,  but  the  water  must  be 
changed  as  soon  as  dirty.  It  is  surprising  how  much 
dirt  one  finds  in  the  pan  of  water.  It  is  well  to  use 
two  brooms,  having  one  dry,  when  using  this  method. 

The  children  would  enjoy  making  a  box  full  of  cir- 
cles and  squares  occasionally,  to  use  on  the  dining 
room  table,  to  put  potato  skins  on  and  other  things, 
thereby  saving  the  table  cloth  and  lots  of  washing  for 
the  busy  housewife. 

Save  all  paraffin  paper  from  cracker  packages,  etc. 
It  is  nice  to  use  in  putting  up  lunches,  baking  cake  and 
many  things. 

When  making  beds,  never  allow  the  bed  clothes  to 
touch  the  floor;  this  protects  them  from  both  dirt  and 
germs. 

If  the  upper  sheet  is  drawn  up  about  six  or  eight 
inches  at  the  head  of  the  bed,  more  than  is  needed,  and 
then  folded  back  over  the  blankets  and  comforters, 
which  should  be  drawn  even  with  the  head  of  the  bed, 
and  then  the  spread  put  over  that,  the  comforters  and 
blankets  can  be  kept  for  years  without  washing.  They 
are  never  nice  after  washing.  The  only  cleaning  neces- 
sary is  a  good  airing  and  brushing  on  the  line,  three 
or  four  times  a  year,  on  days  that  are  a  little  windy, 
but  no  soot  or  dust  falling,  usually  a  day  or  two  after 
a  storm  when  the  atmosphere  is  clear. 

The  old  fashioned  method  of  taking  off  spreads  at 
night,  is  not  practical.  They  can  be  washed  often  and 
should  be  left  on  to  protect  comforters,  which  are  not 
easily  washed,  and  no  matter  how  carefully  , they  are 


252  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

washed,  are  not  so  good.  If  necessary  to  wash  them, 
follow  rules  for  flannels.  The  lighter  the  spread  the 
better.    Some  use  seamless  sheets  for  spreads. 

The  fresh  air  will  do  abundance  of  cleaning  and  save 
so  much  washing,  rubbing  and  scrubbing  if  -we  will 
only  let  it.  If  sheets  are  shaken  out  in  the  air  every 
two  or  three  days,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  touch 
the  dusty  window,  they  need  not  be  washed  more  than 
once  in  two  or  three  weeks,  unless  weather  is  very  hot 
and  dusty,  when  they  should  be  changed  every  week, 
and  every  day  where  there  is  an  invalid.  Then  re- 
move the  lower  sheet  and  make  the  upper  one  the 
lower  one  till  changed  again.  Light  blankets  used  as 
sheets  should  be  washed  as  often  as  sheets.  They 
should  be  pieced  and  made  wide  so  as  to  cover  the 
mattress,  that  is,  in  the  form  of  a  sheet. 

Where  there  is  sickness  it  is  well  to  keep  two  sets 
in  use,  hanging  one  set  to  air  while  the  other  is  in 
use.  This  is  even  safe  in  contagious  diseases  if  there 
is  plenty  of  sun  or  frost,  otherwise  they  should  be 
scalded  or  sprinkled  with  a  little  formaldehyde  rolled 
up  for  a  while,  say  two  or  three  hours  or  over  night, 
and  then  hung  out.    This  means  sheets  not  soiled. 

Formaldehyde  is  one  of  the  simplest  and  easiest  dis- 
infectants to  use.  Write  to  your  nearest  "Board  of 
Health"  for  pamphlets  on  disinfection.  This  work  can 
be  made  easy  as  well  as  other  work. 

There  is  no  sense  of  pulling  and  tearing  a  house  to 
pieces  for  disinfection.  Keep  it  clean  and  dry  with  lots 
of  air  and  sunshine.  Sprinkle  formaldehyde  on  towels 
here  and  there — close  the  doors  and  get  away — after 
three  hours  or  more  open  up  and  the  house  may  be 
likened  to  the  Colorado  air.  After  brushing  and  sweep- 
ing up  the  kitchen,  it  only  takes  a  moment  or  two  to 
throw  a  clean,  dry  mop  cloth,  or  one  almost  dry  is  bet- 
ter, on  the  floor,  and  with  a  broom  rub  it  quickly  all 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  253 

over  the  floor,  turning  it  once  or  twice,  and  then  shake 
out  of  doors,  closing  the  door  so  the  dust  won't  blow 
back  into  the  kitchen.  This  keeps  the  kitchen  sanitary 
and  free  from  dust,  especially  when  the  door  is  opened, 
the  wind  will  not  diffuse  the  floor  dust  through  the 
kitchen,  and  it  won't  be  necessary  to  wash  the  floor 
more  than  once  a  week,  unless  there  is  a  great  deal 
being  done,  as  canning,  etc.;  then  every  day  is  none 
too  much  unless  one  is  real  careful. 

A  good  thick  rug  in  the  kitchen  where  there  is  a 
great  deal  of  walking  through,  will  catch  dust  and 
particles  of  dirt  from  the  shoes  and  prevent  its  being 
carried  to  the  other  rooms.  There  should  be  a  change 
of  rugs  so  that  one  can  be  washed  every  week  or  so. 
Old  strips  of  rag  carpet  make  nice  kitchen  rugs,  and 
when  clean,  give  the  kitchen  a  cozy  appearance  as  well 
as  helping  to  keep  the  other  rooms  clean  by  catching 
the  dust  from  shoes.  The  kitchen  floor,  if  white 
maple,  is  much  easier  kept  clean  and  sanitary  if  given 
a  coat  of  varnish  from  time  to  time.  It  prevents  the 
pores  of  the  wood  from  absorbing  the  dirt.  The  floor 
should  be  thoroughly  scrubbed  with  suds  and  wiped 
with  clear  water,  and  stand  long  enough  to  get  thor- 
oughly dried  before  applying  the  varnish.  Then  about 
once  in  six  weeks  isi  sufficient  to  give  it  a  good  wash- 
ing on  hands  and  knees,  other  weeks  a  slight  mopping, 
not  too  wet,  keeps  it  very  nice  with  everyday  dusting. 

Strips  of  linoleum  laid  where  there  is  a  great  deal 
of  wear  on  a  painted  soft  wood  floor  or  varnished  hard 
wood,  will  make  it  easier  to  clean  and  the  paint  last 
a  good  many  years  if  it  is  done  well  and  not  too  strong 
suds  used  in  cleaning  it,  the  same  method  for  paint- 
ing as  varnishing.  Clear  water  can  be  used  most  of 
the  time  and  a  rubbing  of  oil  and  turpentine  with  a 
soft  cloth  occasionally,  helps  to  both  preserve  and 
clean  it.     Must  be  rubbed  quite  dry  so  that  one  can 


254  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

walk  on  it  immediately,  the  same  method  as  for  pol- 
ishing shoes,  only  use  cloths  instead  of  brushes,  one 
little  cloth  to  put  it  on  and  another  to  rub  it  off; 
change  cloths  frequently,  and  burn. 

A  little  cupboard  made  of  a  box  and  a  pretty  white 
curtain  put  on  it,  is  very  handy  to  keep  all  cleaning 
materials  in,  such  as  a  bottle  of  kerosene,  turpentine, 
linseed  oil,  silver  polish,  metal  polish,  brushes,  pieces 
of  flannel,  and  old  soft,  clean  cloths  (these  had  better 
be  kept  in  small  flour  sack),  etc.  They  keep  cleaner 
than  on  a  shelf,  though  the  shelf  is  very  handy. 

Liquid  veneer  is  a  very  fine  cleaner,  but  rather 
costly,  though  it  is  better  to  have  a  little  for  the  piano 
or  any  nice  pieces  of  furniture.  Kerosene,  if  used  with 
plenty  of  clean,  soft  cloths,  is  nice  for  varnish,  espec- 
ially nice  for  varnished  floors.  A  small  cloth  for  rub- 
bing on  and  plenty  of  larger  ones  to  wipe  off. 

If  woodwork  is  wiped  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of 
clear  water  after  washing  it,  and  then  wiped  with  a 
soft,  dry  cloth,  it  will  retain  its  luster  and  keep  clean 
longer  as  the  shiny  surface  won't  take  up  the  dirt 
so  readily  as  the  rough  dry.  Woodwork,  except  the 
kitchen,  need  not  be  washed  every  year,  simply  dusted 
and  when  it  is  washed,  it  is  well  to  get  along  with- 
out suds  if  possible.  Sometimes  a  cloth  dampened 
with  kerosene  will  remove  all  the  dirt,  and  oftentimes 
cold  water  will  remove  spots  that  other  things  don't 
affect;  a  vigorous  rubbing  with  linseed  oil  will  hide 
blemishes.  Get  along  without  suds,  if  possible,  ex- 
cept in  the  kitchen. 

The  wall  paper  can  be  nicely  dusted  by  putting 
clean,  soft  cloths  on  the  broom,  for  the  high  parts  of 
room,  changing  very  often ;  for  the  lower  parts,  simply 
dust  or  wipe  rather  softly  with  very  clean  cloths. 
Paper  thus  cared  for,  not  in  a  smoky  town  or  city, 
will  wear  very  nicely  for  ten  or  fifteen  years. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  255 

On  cleaning  day,  if  one  carries  with  them  a  market 
basket  containing  a  whisk  broom,  dust  pan  (metal 
crumb  tray),  one  soft  old  clothes  brush,  and  six  or 
more  clean  dust  cloths  (very  effective  if  just  very 
slightly  sprinkled  and  rolled  over  night)  and  some 
newspapers;  also  a  fruit  jar  of  "dust  down,"  etc. 

As  each  cloth  gets  dusty,  place  in  the  basket  and 
take  a  clean  one.  This  saves  going  out  doors  to  shake 
the  cloth  so  many  times,  and  when  done,  all  can  be 
shaken  together,  making  only  one  or  two  trips,  sav- 
ing steps  and  strength.  A  dust  cloth  should  never  be 
shaken  in  the  house.  This  method  makes  the  clean- 
ing much  quicker  and  easier  and  sanitary  as  well.  It 
is  easier  to  get  the  dirt  on  the  dust  pan  with  the  whisk 
broom  than  the  broom.  For  those  who  cannot  stoop 
easily  there  are  now  dust  pans  with  a  high  handled 
attachment. 

Clean  sawdust  dampened, over  night  (not  too  damp), 
makes  a  good  dust  down  as  well  as  a  fair  rug  cleaner, 
as  the  dust  does  not  sift  under  the  rug  so  much.  It 
can  be  slightly  dampened  with  a  little  ammonia  water 
and  borax  if  inclined  to  be  mothy.  Corn  meal  is  good, 
also  salt,  but  these  are  more  costly  than  sawdust. 
Regular  dust  down,  with  directions  for  using,  can  be 
bought  at  most  of  the  hardware  stores.  Clean,  soft 
mop  cloths  slightly  dampened  over  night,  dust  the 
floors  and  rugs  very  nicely  after  sweeping.  Floors 
should  always  be  dusted  whether  hardwood  or  soft. 

A  mop  wrung  tightly  out  of  clean,  warm  water, 
rubbed  over  a  rug,  will  brighten  and  clean  it;  also 
keep  down  the  dust,  being  careful  not  to  get  the  rug 
damp,  if  nothing  is  at  hand  to  keep  down  the  dust. 
A  box  (empty  breakfast  food)  or  bag  (small)  of 
rather  small  pieces  of  old  rags,  kept  near  the  sink,  are 
fine  to  dip  in  kerosene  to  clean  the  outside  of  kettles, 
bathtub  on  both  sides,  sink,  etc.    It  is  not  so  wearing 


256  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

as  sapolio  and  will  keep  things  bright  for  years.  Each 
cloth  should  be  burned  when  used,  or  thrown  in  the 
kitchen  scrap  basket  after  wrapping  in  paper.  A  little 
box  full  or  a  25-pound  flour  sack  cut  in  two,  will  last 
two  weeks.  This  cleans  wax  candles  that  are  kept  on 
the  dresser  or  mantle. 

Gasoline  is  very  nice,  also,  only  be  careful  about  ex- 
plosion. The  bottle  will  pop  open  if  kept  in  too  warm 
a  place,  but  will  do  no  harm  unless  there  is  a  light  or 
blaze  near. 

These  old  rags  are  nice  to  clean  anything  spilled  on 
stove  or  floor  or  a  "mess"  of  any  kind.  Cut  into  about 
8  or  12  inch  squares,  some  larger,  some  smaller,  before 
putting  in  the  box  for  use. 

A  scrap  basket  kept  in  the  kitchen  for  things  to 
burn  is  easier  than  lifting  the  range  cover  so  many 
times — makes  less  dust  and  smoke.  Anything  with 
an  odor  can  be  rolled  in  newspaper,  then  once  a  day 
or  once  in  two  days,  the  whole  contents  can  be  rolled 
in  newspapers  and  burned,  or  sometimes  there  will  be 
fuel  enough  to  get  a  luncheon  or  supper  if  carefully 
planned,  and  save  wood,  as  well  as  not  having  such  a 
hot  kitchen.  This  will  blacken  the  cooking  utensils 
a  little,  but  they  can  be  easily  wiped  ofif  on  a  news- 
paper with  a  little  rag  and  kerosene. 

When  the  broom  is  wet,  it  should  be  hung  down 
so  that  it  will  drain  and  dry  quickly.  It  will  wear 
much  longer  and  is  more  sanitary.  A  screw-eye  in 
the  head  of  the  handle  makes  it  handy  to  hang  where 
one  has  not  a  broom  hanger.  The  mop  handle  can 
be  fixed  the  same.  Mop  rags  should  never  be  left  in 
the  mop — a  very  bad  habit: — they  quickly  become  foul 
smelling  and  unsanitary  (an  excellent  nest  for  disease 
germs).  It  takes  but  a  moment  to  rinse  the  mop 
cloths  out  of  clean  water  and  throw  on  a  little  line 
outside  the  kitchen  door,  fixed  for  that  purpose.    A 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  257 

little  frame  make  with  a  galvanized  wire  is  best; 
nothing  equal  to  out  door  drying.  Mop  cloths  so  taken 
care  of  will  last  two  or  three  months.  On  wash  day  they 
can  be  dipped  in  hot  suds  after  the  wiping  up  is  done. 
Scrubbing  brushes  and  other  brushes  can  be  drained 
bristles  downward  on  newspapers.  It  is  both  clean 
and  sanitary,  prevents  foul  smells  and  adds  to  the  life 
of  the  brush.  _ 

A  box  or  little  bag  can  be  kept  handy  in  the  kitchen 
for  dropping  strings  from  groceries  in.  If  wound  on 
the  hand,  they  won't  become  knotted,  or  a  large  spool 
can  be  kept  on  the  kitchen  shelf.  The  children  would 
enjoy  making  balls  or  winding  them  on  spools  or  cards 
cut  from  thin  pasteboard. 

Another  occupation  of  much  joy  to  the  children  and 
a  great  help  to  the  busy  housewife,  is  cutting  paraffin 
paper  to  fit  cake  pans,  steam  molds  (baking  powder 
cans),  etc.  They  will  draw  the  patterns  themselves 
if  given  the  tins  for  models.  These  can  be  kept  in  a 
clean  pasteboard  box  with  straws  from  the  new  broom 
or  a  knitting  needle  for  testing  cake. 

A  clean  crumb  tray  and  whisk  broom  should  be  kept 
handy  to  brush  the  wrinkles  from  the  lower  sheet 
when  straightening  the  beds.  It  keeps  the  sheet  clean 
longer  and  saves  making  the  bed  up  all  through  every 
day. 

If  house  cleaning  is  done,  little  at  a  time,  say  one  or 
two  hours  each  day,  as  cleaning  a  couple  of  dressers 
one  day,  a  clothes  closet  the  next,  repair  a  rug  the 
next,  and  so  on,  for  about  six  weeks  or  more,  it  saves 
that  awful  dragged  out  feeling  one  experiences  often 
when  using  the  old  fashioned  method  of  cleaning,  and 
sometimes  doctor  bills,  not  to  speak  of  sparing  the 
horrors  and  commotion  of  house  cleaning.  Though 
there  may  be  one  or  two  days  of  hard  work  where  a 
room  or  two  needs  re-decorating,  but  if  carefully  man- 

17 


258  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

aged  and  not  soil  the  other  rooms  while  so  doing,  it 
will  save  both  nerve  and  strength  and  not  seem  so 
unpleasant.  If  done  in  this  way  it  seems  to  do  itself 
and  no  one  knows  it  is  going  on. 

House  cleaning  should  be  made  a  joy,  seeing  how 
nice  one  can  make  old  things  look,  and  spending  as 
little  money  as  possible.  A  good  rule  to  keep  in  mind 
is  to  make  things  look  as  good  as  possible  with  the 
least  money.  When  fixing  up  one  thing^  another  is 
suggested,  so  that  by  the  time  one  is  all  through,  the 
house  is  very  respectable  looking. 

Linoleum  worn  in  the  center  can  be  cut  with  a  metal 
ruler  or  carpenter's  plane  and  sharp  pocket  knife  and 
transposed,  bringing  outside  to  the  center.  A  rubbing 
with  a  soft  cloth  dipped  in  paint  oil  and  turpentine 
occasionally,  prolongs  the  life  of  the  linoleum  as  well 
as  cleaning  and  brightening  it.  It  can  be  varnished 
once  a  year  or  as  often  as  it  may  need  it.  It  should  be 
dusted  with  a  dry  mop  cloth  every  day  where  there  is 
a  great  deal  of  tramping  on  it.  This  saves  washing  it  so 
often  as  well  as  adding  to  the  sanitariness  of  the  room. 
Use  as  little  soap  as  possible  when  cleaning,  occasion- 
ally giving  it  a  good  scrubbing  with  Fels  Naptha  soap 
and  a  soft  scrubbing  brush,  at  the  same  time  wiping 
it  up  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  clear  water.  Once  or 
twice  a  year  is  sufficient  for  such  cleaning. 

An  old  whisk  broom  does  very  well  for  scrubbing 
out  cracks  and  corners,  and  a  toothpick  is  sometimes 
a  little  help  for  digging  out  the  pesky  places. 

When  rain  water  can't  be  obtained,  water  can  be 
made  soft  by  boiling — it  should  boil  at  least  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes,  the  longer  it  is  boiled  the  softer  it  is. 
Old  towels  can  be  used  to  lay  over  kettles  and  a  win- 
dow left  open  to  prevent  so  much  steam  in  the  house. 
The  wash  pitchers  can  be  filled  with  it  after  it  is 
partly  cooled  and  settled.    This  is  next  to  rain  water, 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  259 

best  for  tender  hands  and  face.  Enough  can  be  pre- 
pared at  once  to  last  a  week.    Cover  with  a  towel. 

In  washing  dishes,  if  a  dipper  or  two  of  cold  water 
is  put  in  the  tea  kettle  before  pouring  upon  the  dishes, 
the  decorating  of  cheap  dishes  will  wear  longer  and 
not  get  that  rough  and  cracked  appearance.  This  is 
the  case  also  with  glasses  and  silver.  Ivory  or  white 
handled  knives  should  never  be  put  in  hot  water. 

The  table  silverware  should  never  be  used  around 
the  stove,  especially  in  the  frying  pans.  Soaking  in 
sour  milk  two  or  three  hours  cleans  silver  very  nicely. 

An  inverted  half  pound  baking  powder  can  with 
three  or  four  holes  in  the  bottom,  makes  a  nice  potato 
chopper;  also  to  cut  strawberries  fine  for  shortcake, 
thus  making  crushed  strawberries. 

Gold  Dust  in  about  the  proportion  of  one  teaspoon 
to  a  quart  of  water,  boiled  in  scorched  cooking  uten- 
sils for  about  twenty  minutes  or  better,  will  remove 
the  black,  also  the  sticky  stuff  from  bread  tins,  though 
with  proper  cooking  and  handling,  kettles  should  not 
be  scorched,  and  if  scorched,  should  not  be  scraped. 
This  will  darken  aluminum,  which  can  be  brightened 
with  vinegar.  Soaking  is  better;  scraping  and  scour- 
ing should  be  done  away  with  as  much  as  possible.  A 
table  or  molding  board  can  be  soaked  by  laying  a  wet 
cloth  thereon. 

Hot  Gold  Dust  suds  is  excellent  for  milk  cans,  only 
it  is  hard  on  the  hands,  which  should  be  treated  with 
some  good  hand  jelly  when  through  washing  them. 
If  a  dipper  of  hot  water  is  put  in  each  can  about  an 
hour  before  washing  them  and  the  covers  put  on,  the 
condensed  vapor  will  soften  the  dirt  on  the  sides. 

Gold  Dust  is  of  no  value  unless  used  with  very  hot 
water.  Soaking  with  a  dipper  of  hot  water,  sudsing 
well  with  a  brush  (soft  scrubbing),  rinse  in  hot  water, 
then  in  cold,  and  turned  upside  down  on  a  rack  out 


260  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

of  doors  in  a  clean  place.  These  five  processes  will 
make  the  cans  sterile  and  no  danger  of  milk  souring 
due  to  that  part  of  the  work. 

On  very  cold  days  when  it  is  necessary  to  bring 
them  to  the  kitchen,  plenty  of  newspapers  or  some 
clean  old  carpet  rugs  should  be  used  for  the  floor.  It 
saves  slopping  and  keeps  the  heavy  bottoms  from  cut- 
ting the  floor  or  linoleum,  as  well  as  saving  the  work 
of  cleaning  the  floor  afterwards.  It  is  well  to  have 
one  or  two  changes  of  washable  rugs. 

There  should  be  no  dust  or  foul  smell  where  any- 
thing pertaining  to  milk  is  cared  for  or  used. 

In  stormy  weather  there  should  be  a  rack  in  the  milk 
house  for  the  cans — to  keep  them  from  rusting.  A 
little  bottle  of  white  or  black  enamel  or  paint  may  be 
kept  on  kitchen  shelf  for  labeling  milk  cans,  fruit  jars, 
things  in  the  pantry  and  so  on.  It  can  be  used  very 
effectively  with  a  toothpick,  one  fend  of  which  is 
wrapped  with  a  tiny  bit  of  absorbent  cotton.  The 
enamel  lasts  better  than  labeling  paper.  Wash  blue- 
ing and  other  things  can  be  used  for  labeling.  All 
things  stored  away  should  be  labeled;  it  makes  them 
easy  to  find  when  wanted. 

Lamps  need  not  be  cleaned  every  day,  but  the 
wicks  should  be  rubbed  ofif  every  day  with  one  of  the 
little  rags  kept  in  the  kitchen  scrap  bag  or  box. 

The  firebox  of  a  cook  stove  should  never  be  more 
than  two-thirds  to  three-quarters  full.  If  more  than 
this  a  greater  amount  of  coal  is  used,  much  heat  is 
lost  and  the  draft  is  checked.  About  three  cozies  of 
different  sizes  to  fit  steamer  and  different  size  kettles 
can  be  made  of  old  towels  of  about  three  thicknesses 
to  use  in  simmering  meats,  steaming  puddings  and 
for  many  things.  It  saves  half,  or  more,  of  fuel  and 
things  cook  more  evenly.  It  may  be  likened  to  the 
fireless  cooking. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  261 

If  a  hot  iron  is  not  handy  when  marking  clothes 
with  indeHble  ink,  hold  against  the  lamp  chimney  or 
gas  globe. 

Broken  plastered  walls  can  be  mended  by  mixing 
a  little  plaster  of  paris  alone  or  with  sand,  with  water 
Work  quickly  as  it  drys  fast.  Smooth  with  a  broad 
kitchen  knife.  Cover  with  paper,  alabastine  or  some- 
thing to  match  the  wall  or  pieces  of  thin,  firm  white 
cloth  dipped  in  alabastine  can  be  pasted  over  cracks 
and  holes. 

Pesky  old  tacks,  which  have  been  left  in  the  floor, 
can  be  loosened  by  tapping  a  screwdriver  lightly  with 
a  hammer;  better  if  one  has  a  pair  of  pincers. 

Furs  may  be  kept  free  from  moths,  germs  and  odors 
by  putting  among  them  small  pieces  of  absorbent  cot- 
ton or  cloth  on  which  have  been  dropped  a  small 
quantity  of  formaldehyde. 

A  great  necessity  in  any  house  is  a  tool  chest,  which 
may  be  only  a  little  wooden  box  with  hammer,  bottles 
of  tacks,  nails,  and  many  little  things.  The  uppers 
of  men's  old  shoes  can  be  cut  into  tiny  squares  and 
kept  in  this  box  for  heads  of  tacks.  One  or  two  of 
these  used  on  tacks  not  only  saves  rugs,  curtains, 
floors,  etc.,  but  holds  the  things  firmly  in  place.  If 
you  use  them  once,  you  will  never  drive  tacks  without 
them ;  even  neat  strips  of  leather  will  bind  floor  oil 
cloth  very  nicely,  or  folds  of  cloth,  then  varnish. 

Grated  orange  and  lemon  rind  can  be  used  for  cake 
flavoring,  frosting,  pudding,  pies,  sauces  and  nearly 
all  sweet  dishes. 

Hundred-yard  bolts  of  hospital  gauze  can  be  pro- 
cured at  any  wholesale  medical  house,  which  is  ex- 
cellent for  straining  many  things  in  the  kitchen,  if 
doubled.  For  straining  milk  it  should  be  boiled  or 
steamed,  and  burned  after  using.    The  finest  or  clos- 


262  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

est  woven  is  best.  It  saves  lots  of  washing  and  labor. 
It  should  be  kept  wrapped  in  clean  towels.  Cheesecloth 
is  best  for  milk  (4  thicknesses). 

If  cooking  is  properly  done  with  the  fireless  cooker 
it  is  bound  to  be  scientific — no  nourishment  being  de- 
stroyed; two  kinds  of  economy  is  thus  used — saving 
of  nourishment  and  fuel.  Butter  crocks  are  nice  for 
cooking  many  things. 

A  little  tray  or,  rather,  nest,  like  an  egg  case,  can 
be  made  of  a  wooden  box,  to  hold  about  six  jars  con- 
taining such  things  as  rice,  tapioca,  raisins,  sugar, 
etc.,  for  a  light  pudding.  This  saves  lots  of  steps  and 
the  pudding  can  be  made  quickly.  The  same  arrange- 
ment for  spices  can  be  made  or  bought.  Both  are  very 
practical.    They  save  lots  of  time  and  searching. 

One  can  often  get  little  books  or  helps  on  things 
that  puzzle  them  by  writing  to  the  Household  Depart- 
ment of  any  of  the  newspapers  or  magazines,  enclos- 
ing a  self-addressed  envelope  or  have  the  question 
answered  through  the  paper ;  others  then  get  the  bene- 
fit also  and  consider  it  charitable. 

Don't  look  for  recipes  only,  for  there  are  often  good 
letters  and  other  hints  of  great  help  to  anyone. 

An  old  catalogue  of  good  paper  makes  a  nice  scrap 
book  for  pasting  in  things  that  you  need.  They  can 
be  classified  and  indexed.  A  little  book  in  which  to 
keep  your  own  menus  is  often  a  great  help  in  plan- 
ning a  meal  and  helping  to  save. 

Last,  but  not  least,  is  to  have  a  place  for  everything 
as  practical,  convenient,  simple  and  pretty  as  you 
know  how  to  arrange,  keeping  in  mind  the  saving  of 
your  own  strength  as  well  as  sanitariness  and  then 
keep  everything  in  its  place.  This  is  half  of  the  work 
done.  If  you  have  a  great  deal  to  keep  track  of,  then, 
when  arranging,  make  and  keep  a  little  note  book  of 
your  own.  It  will  be  easier  to  look  over  it  than  to 
search  through  the  whole  house  for  something  you 
may  want  very  much. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  263 

You  can  accomplish  a  great  deal  by  studying  ways 
and  means  and  very  often  your  books  and  magazines 
will  give  you  exactly  what  you  need  to  smooth  over 
the  hard  places. 

Often  one  will  find  very  good  pamphlets  or  cook 
books  with  baking  powder,  starch,  breakfast  foods,  etc. 
If  they  are  not  in  the  packages,  you  can  get  them  by 
writing  to  the  companies  that  produce  those  articles 
or  from  your  grocer.  Almanacs  and  advertising  ac- 
count books  not  only  contain  some  good  recipes,  but 
other  useful  ideas  which  can  be  cut  out  and  put  in 
the  "Kitchen  Scrap  Book"  under  each  one's  own  head- 
ing. 

You  don't  know  how  much  you  can  accomplish  until 
you  try.  Make  an  earnest  effort,  and,  although  you 
may  think  that  your  progress  is  slow,  after  six  months 
of  conscientious  work,  you  will  be  surprised,  in  look- 
ing back,  to  see  how  much  you  have  accomplished  and 
how  much  you  have  improved.  Any  work  will  be 
more  easily  done  and  be  found  more  interesting  if  it 
is  done  in  the  right  spirit,  as  God  meant  it  to  be.  Make 
it  professional  and  thereby  gain  one  of  the  best  kinds 
of  education — self-education,  making  life  broader  and 
more  interesting,    "He  hath  no  other  work  to  do," 


264  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


A  GRACE  BEFORE  DINNER 

Oh,  Thou,  who  kindly  dost  provide, 

For  every  creature's  want ; 
We  bless  Thee,  God  of  Nature  wide. 

For  all  thy  goodness  lent, 
And,  if  it  pleases  thee,  Heavenly  Guide, 

May  never  worse  be  sent; 
But  whether  granted  or  denied, 

Lord,  bless  us  with  content! 

Amen. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  265 


MENUS  (Lenten) 


For  three  weeks  in  early  Spring 

This  menu  costs  four  people  between  three  and  four 
dollars  per  week.  Oftentimes  a  visitor  drops  in  at 
meal  time. 

Recipes  for  all  of  the  following  will  be  found 
throughout  the  book. 

This  menu  may  not  seem  sufficient  for  demands  of 
the  system,  but  when  all  is  prepared  scientifically,  no 
food  value  is  wasted. 

A  good  rule  is  to  plan  meals  the  night  before  or 
sometimes  two  days  ahead.  Keep  a  little  book  for 
this  purpose;  it  often  helps  when  one  is  at  sea  and 
doesn't  know  just  what  to  get. 

Sunday.  Breakfast 

Buckwheat  Cakes   with   Sugar _  Syrup. 
Coffee  with  Condensed  Milk. 


Dinner 
Sirloin  Steak,  fried   (1  lb.).    Mashed  Potatoes. 
Lettuce  and  Celery. 
One  Egg  Lemon  Pie.    Coffee. 


Supper 
Cornmeal  Mush   (very  well  cooked)   and  Milk. 


Monday.  Breakfast 

Oatmeal  for  all. 
Poached  Egg  on  Toast  for  two.     Coffee  with  Milk  and  Toast. 


Dinner 

Baked  Hash  on  Toast.     Brown  Betty  with  Lemon  Sauce. 

A  very  Small  Glass  of  Milk  for  each,  or  half  cups. 


Supper 

Boiled     Potatoes.    Fried  Onions. 

Lemonade. 


266  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Tuesday.  Breakfast 

Same  as  Monday. 


Dinner 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage.     Peeled  Potatoes  Boiled  with  the  Beef. 

Apple  Sauce.    Cookies. 


Supper 

Fried   Potatoes.    Cabbage  Warmed  Over. 

Hot  Biscuits  with  Svrup. 

Tea. 


Wednesday.  Breakfast 

Dr.  Price's  Celery  Food,  with  Bananas  Sliced  in  it  and 

Milk.     Excellent    with    Cream. 

Poached  Egg  on  Toast  for  each  person. 

Coffee. 


Dinner 

Spaghetti.  Mashed    Potatoes. 

One  Crust  Apple  Pie. 

Postum  with  Condensed  Milk. 


Supper 

Potato  Patties  made  from  left  over  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Creamed  Onions. 

Cookies.  Diluted   Grape  Juice. 


Thursday  Breakfast 

Oatmeal  with  Milk  or  Cream  or  half  of  each. 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs  and  Toast. 

Coffee, 


Dinner 

Beef  Loaf  (Hamburg).    Mashed  Potatoes. 

Bread  Pudding,  Cinnamon  Sauce. 

Lemonade. 


Supper 

Scrambled  Eggs.        Potato  Patties. 

One  Egg  Cake.    Tea. 


Friday.  Breakfast 

Fried  Corn  Meal  Mush  with  Syrup, 
Coffee. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  267 

Dinner 
Boiled  Eggs.        Baked  Potatoes. 
Johnny  Cake. 
Emergency   Pie  with  Lemon   Sauce.    Lemonade. 


Supper 

Cold  Baked  Potatoes,  Creamed.    Left  Over  Johnny 

Cake,  warmed  in  steamer. 

Doughnuts.  Postum. 


Saturday.  Breakfast 

Oatmeal  Fried  Potatoes. 

Hot  Muffins.    Coffee. 


Dinner 

Pork  Steak.     Potatoes  in  Jackets. 

Cake.        Apple  Sauce. 

Coffee. 


Supper 

Escalloped  Potatoes.  Fried  Eggs. 

Bread  Biscuits.    Tea. 


Sunday.  Breakfast 

Hot  Waffles   (made  with  one  egg)  and  Syrup. 
Coffee. 


Dinner 

Veal  Loaf  (2  hours).  Fried  Potatoes. 

Brown  Bread  (3  to  4  hours). 

Plum  Pudding    (3  to  3^   hours),   Cinnamon  or  Brandy  Sauce. 

Steam  Veal  Loaf,  Plum  Pudding  and  Brown  Bread  together 

in  baking .  powder  cans,   two  of  veal,   two   of  pudding  and  the 

remainder  of  brown  bread,  as  many  as  steamer  will  hold. 


Supper 
Bread  and  Milk. 
or 
Cold  Sliced  Veal  Loaf.      Potato  Salad. 
Drink    made    from    1^    teaspoonfuls    Cocoa    and    3^    tea- 
spoonfuls    Horlick's    Malted    Milk    mixed    dry   with    sugar   and 
boiled  in  double  boiler  five  to  ten  minutes.     Suggestion  of  salt. 
Half  of  each  hot  water  and  sweet  skimmed  milk. 


Monday.  Breakfast 

In  country  where  milk  is  plenty. 

Creamed  Toast.  Prunes. 

Doughnuts.    Coffee. 


268  THE  HOMfi-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


Dinner 
Hamburg  Loaf.  Fried  Raw  Potatoes. 

Pieplant  Pie.     Coffee. 


Supper 

Boiled   Potatoes   in  Jackets.     Creamed  Onions. 

Postum. 


Tuesday.  Breakfast 

Cold  Baked  Apples. 

Corn  Meal  Mush.    Creamed  Codfish  on  Toast. 

Coffee. 


Dinner 

Leavings   of  Hamburg  Loaf,   Onions   and   Potatoes  hashed 

together,  a  little  milk  added  and  browned  in  oven. 

Warm  Baked  Apples,  Cinnamon  Sauce.     Coffee. 


Supper 

Codfish  Balls.  Raw  Onions  Sliced. 

Devil's  Food.    Canned  Peaches. 

Tea. 


Wednesday.  Breakfast 

Pancakes   with   Syrup. 
Coffee. 


Dinner 
Escalloped  Corn.     Fried  Potatoes  flavored  with  Onion. 
Boiled  Rice,  Japanese  Style. 
Coffee. 


Supper 

Boiled  Potatoes   in  Jackets.        Creamed  Cabbage. 

Rice    Pudding.     Buttermilk. 


Thursday.  Breakfast 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs  and  Toast.     Coffee. 


Dinner 

Boiled    Frankforts.  Escalloped    Potatoes. 

Hot  Biscuits  and  Syrup. 

Tapioca  Pudding.  Coffee. 


Supper 

Warmed  over  Escalloped  Potatoes. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese. 

Apple  Pie.    Skimmed  Milk. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  269 

Friday,  Breakfast 


French  Toast,  Syrup. 
Cofifee. 

Dinner 

Baked  Potatoes.  Fried  Onions. 

Cold  Baked  Apples  with  Cream,  or  Hot  Baked  Apples  with  sauce. 

Coffee. 

Supper 

Steamed  Salmon  Loaf  with  Sauce. 

Green  Tomato  Mince  Meat  Pie. 

Tea. 


Saturday.  Breakfast- 

Apples.    Oatmeal. 

Raised  Muffins  and  Syrup. 

Coffee. 

Dinner 

Fried  Potatoes.  Creamed  Cabbage. 

Hot  Bread  Biscuits  and  Syrup. 

Supper 

Bean  Soup  and  Crackers  or  Croutons. 

Cold  Biscuits.     Tea. 


Sunday.  Breakfast 

Oatmeal.  Bacon  and  Eggs. 

Toast.    Coffee. 

Dinner 

Fried  Ham.  Mashed  Potatoes. 

English  Apple  Pudding. 

Coffee. 

Supper 
Oatmeal  and  Milk.        Bananas. 
Bread.     Cocoa. 


Monday.  Breakfast 

Buckwheat  Cakes  and  Syrup. 
Coffee. 


Dinner 

Boiled  Ham.      Potatoes,  Rutabagas  or  Turnips. 

Coffee. 


Supper 

Baked  Potatoes.  Creamed  Codfish. 

Tapioca  Pudding.    Diluted  Grape  Juice'. 


270  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Tuesday.  Breakfast 

Apples.  Oatmeal  or  Cream  of  Wheat. 

Creamed  Toast.    Coffee. 


Dinner 

Creamed  Dried  Beef  on  Toast. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Stewed  Prunes.     Coffee. 


Supper 

Baked   Potatoes    Creamed.    Canned    Peas. 

Apple   Jack. 


Wednesday.  Dinner 

Raw  Fried  Potatoes.     Creamed  Onions. 

One  Egg  Bread  Pudding  with  Sauce  or  Fruit  Juice. 

Coffee. 


Supper 

Raw   Potatoes    Creamed.     Codfish   Balls. 

Onions  SHced  in  Vinegar,   Salt,  Pepper  and  Sugar. 

Prune  Pudding  made  with  Bread  Dough. 

Tea. 


Thursday.  Dinner 

Cold  Boiled  Ham. 

Potatoes,  Parsnips,  Onions  and  Other  Vegetables  may  be 

boiled  in  Ham  Juice  with  Bone  and  Piece  of  Rind. 


Supper 

Fried  Eggs,  Fried  Potatoes. 

Cream  of  Wheat  Pudding.    Tea. 


Friday.  Dinner 

Potato  Soup  and  Croutons. 

Canned   Fruit   and    Cookies   or    Doughnuts. 

Coffee. 


Supper 

Steamed  Brown  Bread  and  Salmon  Loaf. 

Tea. 


Saturday.  Dinner 

Browned  or  Smothered  Round  Steak.     Potatoes  in  Jackets. 
Hot  Bread  Biscuits. 
Coffee. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  271 

Supper 

Fried   Potatoes.    Omelet,  or  Baked  Beans. 

Apple   Dumplings    Steamed. 

Half  Cups  Milk. 

The  early  spring  is  the  hardest  time  of  year  to  plan 
meals,  and  for  those  who  cannot  afford  all  of  the  above 
menu,  I  would  say,  lean  strongly  on  the  cooked  cereals 
and  milk,  oatmeal  especially.  Twice  a  day  is  not  too 
much  to  have  these. 

Read  chapter  on  milk  and  you  will  realize  its  value. 
The  cereals  must  be  well  cooked  in  double  boiler  or 
steamer;  two,  three  or  four  hours  is  not  too  much. 
Gas  can  be  saved  by  lowering  after  they  start  boiling 
and  covering  the  kettle  well  with  cozies.  Keep  old 
towels  for  this  purpose,  using  two  or  three  thicknesses. 

The  Scotch  people  are  fond  of  their  oatmeal,  and  in 
many  families  it  is  used  three  times  a  day;  they  are 
among  the  strongest  people  of  the  world,  both  intel- 
lectually and  physically. 

Yon  will  find  many  cheap  recipes  that  can  be  substi- 
tuted in  the  above  menus.  In  buying  for  the  table, 
one  can  save  a  great  deal  by  being  careful.  Ten  cents 
worth  of  dried  beef  will  do  for  two  meals.  For  boiled 
ham,  get  the  butt  or  shank  end  where  family  is  small ; 
ten  cents  worth  of  beef  stew  may  be  cooked  with  it. 
Buying  macaroni,  peas,  corn,  tomatoes,  etc.,  by  the 
dozen,  saves  considerably,  or  grocers  will  often  mix  a 
dozen.  If  one  has  a  little  garden,  considerable  can  be 
saved  by  having  a  few  cans  of  vegetables  put  up. 

A  WEEK'S  MENU  IN  MIDSUMMER 

This  is  beyond  most  people's  means;  I  simply  put 
it  in  to  use  as  a  reference  to  help  in  planning  meals. 
Those  having  dinner  at  nopn  can  change  the  order, 
substituting  luncheon  for  supper. 


272 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


Sunday. 


Monday. 


Tuesday. 


Wednesday- 


Thursday. 


Friday. 


Saturday. 


Dinner- 
Supper — 

Breakfast- 
Luncheon- 


Dinner — 


Breakfast — Musk  Melon,  warmed  corn  flakes, 
bacon  and  eggs,  warmed  biscuits, 
coffee. 

Roast  chicken,  boiled  potatoes,  sweet 
corn,  tea,   watermelon. 

Cold  chicken,  cake,  cocoa,  pears. 

•Same  as  Sunday. 

Vegetable   soup,   cold   ham,   chocolate, 

cake,    sliced    peaches,    lemonade,    or 

diluted  grape  juice. 
Lamb   chops,   boiled   potatoes,   squash, 

watermelon,  coffee. 

Breakfast — Melons,  corn  flakes,  com  fritters,  bacon, 

eggs,  coffee. 
Luncheon — Creamed    potatoes,    summer    sausage, 

chocolate  cake,  sliced  peaches,  tea. 
Dinner —      Breaded   sweetbreads,   boiled  potatoes, 

creamed  carrots,  coffee,  lemon  pie. 

Breakfast — Same  as  Tuesday. 

Luncheon— Poached    eggs   on   toast,   hot   biscuits, 

lemon  cake,  blueberries,  iced  tea. 
Dinner—      Liver     and     bacon,     boiled     potatoes, 

creamed    cabbage,    tapioca    pudding, 

coffee. 

Breakfast — Melons,  cream  of  wheat,  toast,  boiled 
eggs,  coffee. 

Luncheon —  Corn  fritters,  warmed  potatoes,  lemon 
cake,  musk  melons,  cocoa. 

Dinner—  Broiled  porterhouse  steak,  mashed  po- 
tatoes, cucumbers,  watermelon,  cof- 
fee. 

Breakfast — ^Melons,  Dr.  Price's  Celery  food,  poached 
eggs  on  toast,  doughnuts  and  coffee. 

Luncheon — Creamed  tomato  soup,  raw  fried  pota- 
toes, sardines,  ginger  cake,  water- 
melon, tea. 

Dinner —  Baked  white  fish,  baked  potatoes,  chow- 
chow,  sweet  corn,  half  musk  melons 
filled  with  sliced  peaches,  coffee. 

Breakfast — Half  musk  melons  filled  with  grapes, 
cream  of  wheat,  bacon  and  eggs, 
pop-overs,  coffee. 

Luncheon —  Fried  sausage,  ginger  bread,  blueber- 
ries, tea. 

Dinner —      Baked  sliced  ham,  escalloped  potatoes, 
vegetable    salad,    pineapple    sherbet,  I 
tea.  j^ 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  273 

SPECIAL  MENUS 
Hallowe'en  (Select  from  the  following) 

Mystery  cake,  this  is  Devil's  food  containing  arti- 
cles such  as  rings,  buttons,  thimbles,  etc.,  pumpkin 
pie,  doughnuts,  coffee,  cider,  pickles,  popcorn,  chest- 
nuts, fruit,  deviled  ham  sandwiches.  Witch's  brew  is 
Scotch  broth  or  any  nice  broth. 

Colors,  red,  black  and  yellow.  Jack-o'-lanterns  are 
made  out  of  pumpkins  and  pasteboard  boxes  with  can- 
dle. These  make  nice  center  pieces  for  a  little  hal- 
lowe'en  supper.  The  dining  room  can  be  all  lighted 
with  jack-o'-lanterns.    This  pleases  the  children. 

^  Nezv  Years 

Breakfast — Oranges,  cream  of  wheat,  waffles,  coffee. 
Dinner —      Roast   pig,    apple   sauce,   mashed   potatoes,   mashed 

turnips,  plum  pudding  with  cinnamon  sauce,  coffee. 
Supper —       Potato  croquettes,  cold  roast  pig,  fruit  cake,  apple 

sauce,  tea. 

Easter  Sunday 
Breakfast — Eggs  in  different  styles,  ham  and  eggs,  toast  and 

coffee. 
Dinner —       Stewed  chicken,  boiled  potatoes  whole,  peas,  oranges. 

and  cocoanut  and  coffee. 
Supper —       Fried  or  warmed  potatoes,  cold  chicken,  bread  and 

jam,  tea. 
Flower —      The  lily. 

July  4th 

Breakfast — Strawberries,  cream  and  sugar,  creamed  codfish, 
buttered  toast  and  coffee. 

Dinner —  Roast  beef,  browned  potatoes,  lettuce,  ice  cream,  cake, 
coffee. 

Supper —  Cold  beef,  brown  hashed  potatoes,  cake,  strawber- 
ries, tea. 

Labor  Day 
Breakfast — Muskmelons,  Ralston's  food,  creamed  dried  beef  on 

toast,  coffee. 
Dinner —      Baked   ham   and   sweet  potatoes,   stewed   tomatoes, 

squash  pie,  coffee. 
Supper —       Cold  sliced  ham,   sweet  potatoes,   sliced   and   fried, 
cake,  sliced  peaches,  tea. 
18 


274 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


Thanksgiving 
Breakfast—  Grapes,   oatmeal   with   cream,   pancakes   with  syrup 

or  honey,  bacon,  coffee. 
Dinner —      Roast  turjcey,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  mashed  potatoes, 

brown  gravy,  cranberry  sauce,  pumpkin  pie,  coffee, 

fruit,  olives,  etc. 
Supper —       Cold   turkey,   potato    patties,    cake    and    cranberry 

sauce,  tea. 

Christmas 

Breakfast — Oranges,  oatmeal  and  cream,  pancakes  and  new  pork 
fried,  coffee.  _ 

Dinner —  Roast  duck  or  goose,  apple  sauce,'  baked  sweet  pota- 
toes, mashed  potatoes,  canned  corn,  warm  mince 
pie,  coffee.  Small  pieces  of  plum  pudding  may  be 
served  with  the  pie. 

Supper —  Cold  goose  or  duck,  sweet  potatoes  sliced  and  fried, 
fruit  cake,  sauce,  tea. 

No  menus  will  be  given  for  fall  or  early  winter  as  there  is 
such  an  abundance  of  things  they  almost  suggest  themselves  with 
very  little  thought  and  planning. 

Good  Friday 
Select  from  the  following,  preparing  the  dishes  with- 
out lard,  butter  or  eggs : 

Breakfast — Oatmeal  and  milk,  creamed  toast,  coffee  or  pan- 
cakes and  syrup. 

Dinner —  Escalloped  potatoes,  macaroni  and  tomatoes,  creamed 
macaroni,  bananas  and  milk  or  fruit  of  any  kind, 
dumplings  in  boiled  salted  water  or  steamed. 

Supper —       Baked    potatoes,    creamed    onions,    cornmeal    mush 

and  milk.     Some  of  the  fruit  and  vegetable  soups 

may  be  selected  to  accompany  two  or  three  of  the 

above. 

Drink  plenty  of  milk  and  one  will  not  suffer  with 

hunger. 
Hot  Cross  Buns.    (Plain  buns  with  a  cross  cut  on  top.) 

Shrove  Tuesday  (Day  before  Ash  Wednesday) — Pancakes. 

Ash  Wednesday — Any  Lenten  Menu. 

St.  Patrick's  Day  (March  17) — Irish  potatoes  one  of  the 
prominent  features.  Color  scheme,  green.  Potato  cake,  potato 
soup,  potato  salad  decorated  with  shamrock. 

Decorations  or  souvenirs:  Irish  clay  pipes,  Irish  paper  flags, 
shamrock,  toy  harps,  stove  pipe  hats,  (toy),  candy  Irish  pota- 
toes, etc. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  ^75 

St.  Valentine's  Day — February  14 : 

Decorations — Red  paper  hearts  and  cupids ;  heart  shaped  candy 
boxes ;  heart  shaped  candies  and  cookies. 

Palm  Sunday — Decorations,  palms.    Any  Sunday  menu. 

Toasts  should  be  given  with  soft  drinks.  "Look  not  upon  the 
wine  when  it  is  red  " — 

Small  glasses  of  diluted  grape  juice  are  very  dainty  with  a 
nice  dinner. 


TOAST  TO  ST.  PATRICK 

"Here's  to  the  land  of  shamrock  so  green; 

Here's  to  each  lad  and  his  darling  colleen. 
Here's  to  the  one  we  love  dearest  and  most ;  -• 
And  may  God  save  old  Ireland — that's  the  Irishman's  toast; 


A  CHRISTMAS  TOAST 

Here's  to  our  Christmas,  may  it  bring  us  good  cheer ! 
May  the  joy  of  this  Christmas  reach  all,  far  and  near, 
May  -the  message  of  Christmas  to  all  hearts  be  clear ; 
May  it  soothe  every  sorrow  and  dry  every  tear. 
May  it  bind  closer  to  us  each  soul  that  is  dear, 
And  the  spirit  of  Christmas  last  all  through  the  year. 


A  SCOTCH   TOAST 

"Here's  to  the  heathe,  the  hills  and  the  heather. 
The  bonnet,  the  plaide,  the  kilt  and  the  feather, 
Here's  to  the  heroes  that  Scotland  can  boast. 
May  their  names  never  die;  that's  a  Highlandman's  toast" 


276  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


A  FEW  HEALTH  HINTS 


"Laugh  and  the  world  laughs  with  you." 

Where  one  has  to  go  into  a  cold  kitchen  in  the  morn- 
ing and  has  not  a  pair  of  high  felt  shoes,  then  secure 
a  pair  of  man's  all  wool  socks  and  slip  on  over  stock- 
ings before  putting  on  slippers. 

They  should  be  removed  when  house  is  warmed  up. 
One  of  the  secrets  of  good  health  is  to  keep  the  feet 
and  ankles  warm^  but  not  so  they  will  perspire  too 
freely.  A  little  perspiration  is  very  good.  The  Indian 
method  of  dressing  in  skins  is  a  method  of  no  small  im- 
portance. 

Where  the  doors  of  the  kitchen  are  opened  and  shut 
often,  this  will  let  in  enough  fresh  air  in  cold  weather, 
but  if  not,  lower  a  window  from  the  top  or  raise  from 
the  bottom  and  set  in  a  piece  of  pasteboard  or  a  little 
board  kept  for  this  purpose.  The  fresh  air  will  then 
come  in  between  the  two  windows  (upper  and  lower). 
In  large  cities  where  there  is  so  much  soot  and  dust, 
a  piece  of  gauze  fitted  to  the  open  space,  in  different 
ways,  will  keep  out  a  great  deal  of  the  dirt.  This 
should  be  washed  frequently  as  it  becomes  very  dirty 
and  hinders  the  fresh  air  from  coming  through.  This 
is  a  good  method  for  sleeping  rooms.  Little  frames 
can  be  made  to  fit  or  tack  the  gauze  over  and  not  in- 
jure the  varnish  of  the  window  woodwork. 

Sleep  with  windows  wide  open  winter  or  summer, 
the  air  blowing  on  one,  does  not  hurt  if  the  body  is 
Well  protected.  It  is  an  abominable  habit  to  sleep  with 
head  covered.  If  face  is  irritated  in  any  way,  it  can 
be  protected  by  cotton  and  salves,  but  leave  the  nose 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  277 

free  for  fresh  air.  Bed  clothing  should  be  light  but 
warm — if  one  has  not  blankets  enough,  use  news- 
papers. Fresh  air !  though  you  do  get  up  with  a  "stuffy 
head"  it  will  soon  wear  away.  The  stuffy  head  really 
comes  from  a  stuffy  self-poisoned  system.  A  cup  of 
very  hot  water  sipped  slowly  an  hour  or  at  least  a  half 
hour  before  breakfast,  will  relieve  this  stuffiness.  Fresh 
air,  plenty  of  it  day  and  night,  is  the  test  and  cheap- 
est medicine  for  all  diseases  and  the  greatest  beauti- 
fier.  Prevents  wrinkles.  One  should  dress  in  another 
room  which  is  warm  (for  the  pores  of  the  skin  are 
open  and  relaxed  on  arising),  or  if  a  bathroom  is  in 
the  house,  it  should  be  nicely  warmed  for  washing, 
or  better  stilly  a  cold  bath  or  rub  cold  water  all  over 
the  skin  with  hands,  wiping  and  patting  dry,  then  put- 
ting on  undergarments  before  putting  the  finishing 
touches  to  one's  toilet.  If  cold  water  causes  a  feeling 
of  lassitude  in  the  afternoon,  then  use  tepid  water.  If 
the  bathroom  has  not  a  stove,  use  an  oil  heater,  or  not 
possessing  this,  set  two  ordinary  lamps  with  good 
sized  burners  down  on  the  floor.  Plan,  and  one  will 
find  some  method  to  heat  a  bathroom.  Next  to  the 
kitchen,  it  should  be  the  cleanest  and  most  used  room 
of  the  house,  and  must  be  warm  for  bathing  purposes 
whether  warm  or  cold  baths  are  taken.  If  there  is 
not  a  bathroom  in  the  house,  fit  up  a  small  bedroom 
for  that  purpose,  or  screen  off  a  corner  of  the 
kitchen,  to  prevent  drafts  and  insure  privacy,  and  heat 
it.  Then  good  sponge  baths  can  be  taken.  The  fur- 
nishings are  simple — a  small  chair,  a  small  foot  bath 
tub  or  good  large  granite  wash  basin,  a  small  dish  pan 
can  be  kept  for  such,  a  nice  pail  for  warm  water,  a 
pitcher  for  cold  water,  a  pail  to  empty  the  water,  a 
soap  dish,  a  little  line  to  hang  wash  rags  and  towels 
and  a  hook  to  hang  one's  garments,  a  strawberry  crate 
makes  a  nice  cupboard  for  towels  and  wash  cloths,  and 


278  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

a  clean,  washable  rug.  Two  washable  rugs  (old  pieces 
of  rag  carpet  neatly  hemmed)  should  be  kept  for  the 
bathroom  so  that  one  can  be  washed  each  week.  Old 
sheets  and  pillow  cases  make  nice  rag  rugs  for  bath- 
room. Folding  bathtubs  can  be  bought,  but  where  one 
can't  afford  it,  they  can  find  some  way  of  supplying 
the  necessaries  for  a  bath.  Towels  can  be  hung  and 
dried  and  used  a  few  times  if  one  is  careful  of  them, 
but  wash  rags  should  be  scrupulously  clean — a  fresh 
one  every  day  is  none  too  much,  or  even  two,  using 
a  separate  one  for  the  face.  They  should  be  dried  be- 
fore putting  in  the  laundry  bag  or  hamper.  Wash  rags 
can  be  made  from  old  towels,  underwear,  etc.,  and 
should  not  be  used  for  cleaning  anything  around  the 
bathroom.  Keep  for  the  skin,  and  towels  the  same. 
Bran  bags  and  bath  brushes  are  excellent,  but  must 
have  nice  care.  If  sponges  are  used,  wash  often  in 
warm  suds,  rinse  and  dry  out  doors.  Soft  water  is  best 
for  bathing  and  drinking.  Boiling  makes  it  soft,  and 
the  longer  the  better.  Each  member  of  the  family  can 
be  taught  to  wipe  out  the  tub  when  through.  A  little 
clean  cloth  can  be  left  on  a  line  or  non-rustable  hanger 
for  this  purpose.  Bathing  is  an  excellent  preservative 
of  health.  Every  day  is  not  too  often,  or  even  twice  a 
day  when  the  weather  is  oppressive  and  work  dirty. 
A  slapping  with  hands  dipped  in  cold  water  after  a 
hot  bath,  will  close  the  pores  and  prevent  taking  cold. 
Will  help  to  cure  a  cold  also.  Bathing  is  one  of  the 
aids  to  cure  indigestion  and  nervousness,  as  well  as 
many  other  diseases.  If  the  skin  cannot  be  bathed  in 
water  as  in  cases  of  eczema  or  salt  rheum,  then  it 
should  have  a  good  cleansing  with  whatever  one's 
physician  prescribes.  Vaseline  and  menthol  crystals 
are  better  to  cleanse  eczema  than  olive  oil,  though  it 
irritates  at  first,  it  is  very  palliative.  Rub  well  into 
the  pores,  getting  out  the  dirt,  then  wipe  off  dry  with 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  279 

absorbent  cotton  or  old  linen.  One-sixth  glycerine  and 
five-sixths  rosewater  is  a  very  nice  cleanser  also. 

Never  bathe  just  after  eating;  even  a  child  in  a 
spasm  should  not  be  plunged  into  water  on  a  full 
stomach. 

The  early  morning  is  the  best  time  for  a' cold  bath, 
and  night  is  best  for  a  hot  bath.  A  good  talcum-is  ex- 
cellent after  a  bath.  Once  a  week,  or  at  least  once  in 
"^  two  weeks,  the  bathroom  should  have  a  thorough 
cleaning. 

RELAXATION 

One  should  do  their  work  in  a  restful  way,  but  you 
will  not  find  that  way  until  you  begin  to  think  about  it. 
Where  one  gets  up  early  in  the  morning,  they  will  pre- 
serve their  strength  by  taking  a  short  nap  after  din- 
ner. Even  if  it  is  only  fifteen  minutes,  it  does  lots  of 
good,  though  one  does  feel  sick  after  waking,  first. 
This  is  a  common  rule  among  the  French  housewifes, 
which  is  one  reason  they  are  always  young  and  fresh 
looking. 

SLEEP 

"Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise 
If  you  would  be  healthy,  wealthy  and  wise." 

Don't  forget  to  open  the  windows  nor  that  the  open 
window  is  good  for  the  complexion  and  will  keep  you 
young.  Never  sleep  in  your  underwear.  It  should 
be  hung  up  so  as  to  be  fresh  and  aired  for 
morning.  Wearing  it  at  night  prevents  the  free 
action  of  the  skin  during  sleep,  while  the  loose  night 
dress  benefits  it.  A  long,  loose  jacket  of  eiderdown, 
flannel  or  any  warm  material  can  be  worn  over  the 
night  dress.  Caps,  earlaps  and  nose  caps,  even  gloves 
(loose)  may  be  worn. 

"Sweet  is  the  sleep  of  the  laboring  man,"  if  taken 


280  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

with  fresh  air.  Sleep  and  enough  of  it  strengthens  and 
relaxes  all  the  organs  of  elimination;  that  is,  the 
bowels,  skin,  lungs  and  kidneys.  Too  much  sleep 
softens  and  enfeebles.  If  these  organs  do  not  do  their 
work  properly,  then  the  poison  which  should  be  elim- 
inated is  diffused  through  the  system,  making  it  a  prey 
for  disease.  It  does  not  always  become  a  prey  in  a 
day,  a  week,  a  month,  or  even  a  year.  It  sometimes 
takes  years  to  break  down  a  good  constitution,  but  no 
one  can  abuse  nature  without  suffering  for  it.  Four 
or  five  hours  sleep  one  night  and  ten  or  eleven  the  next 
night,  is  a  very  bad  practice  for  even  the  strongest.  It 
will  tell  the  results  some  day.  Though  one  does  not 
feel  the  effects  at  once,  it  is  a  harsh  treatment  for  such 
delicate  organs  as  the  kidneys,  lungs  and  heart,  not 
to  speak  of  the  stronger  parts  of  the  body.  "Two 
hours  sleep  before  midnight  is  worth  six  after"  has 
its  meaning,  for  it  is  then  that  sleep  is  most  needed 
and  does  most  good. 

DRINK 

Drink  water  and  plenty  of  it,  at  the  very  least  three 
pints  a  day.  Pure  water,  both  hot  and  cold.  The  in- 
side of  the  body  needs  washing  and  cleaning  just  as 
well  as  the  outside.  Any  organ  may  be  likened  to  a 
machine,  or  furnace ;  if  it  must  do  its  work  well,  it 
must  be  kept  clean.  An  hour  before  eating  or  two 
hours  after  is  best  for  drinking;  then  the  fluid  will  not 
interfere  with  the  digestive  fluids,  but  if  one  is  so  sit- 
uated that  they  can't  get  water  at  such  times,  then 
drink  with  your  meals,  or  better  still,  drink  all  you 
can  on  arising  and  retiring. 

EATING 

Eating,  as  well  as  cooking,  is  a  fine  art.  Knowing 
how  to  eat  well  is  knowing  how  to  live  well.     The 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  281 

more  simple  dishes  are  often  the  most  tasty.  Disease 
is  not  so  often  brought  on  by  what  we  eat  as  by  how 
much  and  when  and  the  method  of  preparation. 

Horace  Fletcher  said,  "Never  eat  when  you  are 
angry  or  sad;  only  when  you  are  glad."  Waiting  for 
the  mood  in  connection  with  the  appetite,  is  a  speedy 
cure  for  both  anger  and  worry. 

Eat  only  in  response  to  an  actual  appetite,  which 
will  be  satisfied  with  plain  bread  and  butter.  Right 
living  is  usually  accompanied  by  a  good  appetite  and 
good  digestion  and  cheerfulness.  Chew  all  solid  food 
until  it  is  liquid  and  practically  swallows  itself.  Sip 
and  taste  all  liquids  that  have  taste,  such  as  soup  and 
lemonade.  Water  has  no  taste  and  can  be  swallowed 
immediately. 

-  Cultivate  regular  habits  of  eating,  not  between 
meals  or  at  bedtime.  If  one  must  lunch  between  meals 
or  at  bedtime,  let  it  be  a  liquid  diet,  if  possible,  taken 
at  the  same  hour  each  day. 

Where  one  is  so  situated  that  he  can't  get  away 
from  work  for  nourishment,  then  two  or  three  of  Hor- 
lick's  Malted  Milk  Tablets  are  excellent  to  keep  up 
the  strength  of  both  mental  and  physical  hard  labor- 
ers, especially  those  suffering  from  kidney  trouble. 
We  are  often  faint,  weak  and  nervous  and  don't  know 
that  we  are  hungry. 

Relax  for  twenty  minutes  before  eating.  Lying 
down  is  best.  One  should  not  work  hard  physically 
or  mentally  just  before  eating.  Eat  moderately  and 
of  simple  foods  well  combined.  Meat  once  a  day  for 
those  working  inside  and  twice  a  day  for  those  outside, 
is  sufficient,  avoiding  fried  meat  as  much  as  possible. 
A  rest  from  meat  for  two  or  three  days  is  often  a  very 
.good  thing  for  an  overtaxed  system,  so  lenten  rules 
are  not  averse  to  laws  of  health.  Too  much  meat 
eating  is  too  much  a  tax  on  the  kidneys.    The  same  is 


282  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

true  of  sweets.  Both  should  be  used  carefully  and  not 
abused. 

Avoid  wine  and  beer.  Alcohol  clogs  the  liver  and 
irritates  the  other  organs,  and  even  the  homemade 
wine  contains  a  goodly  percentage  of  alcohol.  Like- 
wise avoid  rich  candy,  preserves,  heavy  puddings  and 
cold  meat  unless  carefully  kept.  It  is  best  not  to  use 
cold  meat  after  the  second  day,  except  ham  and 
corned  beef. 

Drink  plenty  of  water  between  meals. 

DRESS 

Dress  so  that  each  and  all  the  organs  of  the  body 
have  plenty  of  freedom,  especially  lungs  and  bowels. 
Dress  warm  enough  to  be  protected  from  sudden 
changes  of  temperature,  but  not  too  warm. 

Children  are  often  dressed  too  warm,  and  hence 
catch  cold.  The  most  of  houses  are  kept  too  warm 
also. 

CARE  OF  COLDS  AND  CATARRH 

Save  all  the  old  white,  clean  rags  during  the  year, 
in  a  bag  or  box,  and  oftentimes  soft  paper  napkins  can 
be  bought  cheap.  These  are  nice  for  any  sickness. 
Roll  these  in  a  newspaper,  after  using  (prevents  spread 
of  germs),  and  burn.  Such  things  should  not  be 
washed. 

These  save  the  handkerchiefs  and  lots  of  labor. 
Take  hot  bath  at  night  and  follow  menu  at  end  of 
chapter  for  a  few  days  till  well.  These  are  only  or 
most  often  the  results  of  a  clogged  system.  People 
who  sleep  with  open  windows  rarely  have  a  cold.  An 
alcohol  rub  is  also  very  good. 

CARE  OF  HANDS  AND  FEET 

After  washing  hands  do  not  hold  over  the  fire  or 
go  immediately  out  in  the  cold.  Either  will  chap  them. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  283 

When  either  are  very  sore,  soak  in  very  warm  water 
for  fifteen  minutes  before  retiring,  clean  well  with 
castile  or  any  pure  soap,  rinse  with  cold  water,  dry 
well  with  a  towel  softly,  not  wipe,  and  rub  on  some 
alcohol.    This  is  sufficient  for  mild  cases. 

For  severe  cases,  do  the  same,  only  after  rubbing 
with  alcohol,  put  some  good  hand  jelly  or  salve  on 
hands  and  talcum  on  feet.  Put  talcum  on  feet  before 
putting  on  shoes  in  the  morning.  Loose  glooves 
should  be  used  when  salve  is  used,  made  of  cotton 
flannel  or  any  material  heavy  enough  to  protect  bed 
clothes.  Alcohol  is  best  used  by  rubbing  it  on  with  a 
little  sponge  of  absorbent  cotton.  It  is  very  cleansing 
and  a  good  disinfectant  even  for  a  fresh  cut.  Stock- 
ings need  not  be  washed  every  day,  but  should  be 
aired.  Wash  at  least  twice  a  week.  Warm  feet  are  a 
great  aid  to  health  and  beauty.  Wash  in  cold  water, 
rub  and  put  on  flannel  bed  slippers  when  retiring.  Ex- 
ercise them.  In  day  time  wear  felt  boots  if  necessary 
but  change  stockings  every  day.  They  are  not  out  of 
place  for  ladies  in  the  early  morning  in  a  cold  kitchen. 

CARE  OF  FACE 

Keep  the  bowels  open  and  take  plenty  of  well  regu- 
lated.rest  and  sleep ;  eat  simple  healthful  food.  Wash 
or  rather  scrub  well  for  about  five  minutes  every 
night,  with  plenty  of  good  castile,  ivory  or  any  pure 
soap,  hot  water  (soft)  and  a  good  brush  or  a  very 
clean,  soft  wash  rag  if  face  is  tender ;  rinse  well  with 
clear,  hot  water,  then  with  clear,  cold  water.  Once  or 
twice  a  week  after  this  hot  wash,  clean  out  the  pores 
well  with  a  cotton  sponge  dipped  in  alcohol;  this  will 
cure  pimples  and  prevent  others  from  coming,  if  this 
method  is  combined  with  right  living.  In  the  morning 
either  souse  well  with  cold  soft  water  or  rub  well  with 
a  clean,  soft  wash  cloth  dipped  in  cold  water.    Never 


284  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

wash  the  face  just  before  going  out  or  after  coming  in. 
If  one  has  no  soft  water,  they  can  boil  a  kettle  full, 
once  or  twice  a  week  and  keep  it  covered  in  a  large 
pitcher  for  hands  and  face.  A  little  of  it  can  be  heat- 
ed each  night  for  the  face.  The  water  should  be 
boiled  at  least  fifteen  minutes ;  half  an  hour  is  better, 
and  let  it  settle  a  few  minutes  before  pouring  into 
pitcher.  There  are  some  kinds  of  water  that  boiling- 
makes  harder.  Some  melt  a  little  piece  of  ice  to  wash 
the  face.  Never  wash  the  face  in  hot  water  and  then 
go  out  in  the  cold.  Drink  plenty  of  hot  water  and  be 
beautiful  also  breathe  plenty  of  fresh  air  day  and  night 
and  be  beautiful. 

CARE  OF  HAIR 

For  shampooing,  follow  the  rule  for  washing  flan- 
nels, except  make  the  lather  or  suds  stronger,  using 
nothing  but  soft  water,  no  borax  or  ammonia,  and 
rinse  in  about  five  warm  waters  and  one  cold;  the  cold 
water  is  a  tonic  for  the  scalp  and  prevents  taking  cold. 
It  is  even  good  to  go  out  doors  if  cold  weather  just  a 
minute  and  let  the  cold  air  strike  the  scalp  for  a 
second.  The  hair  will  dry  faster  too.  Dry  by  running 
the  fingers  through  and  massaging  the  scalp  well.  An 
hour  is  none  too  much  to  massage.  Do  not  brush  or 
comb  till  thoroughly  dry  and  never  turn  up  the  end  of 
a  braid  and  tie  tightly ;  this  breaks  the  delicate  shafts. 
Rubbing  the  scalp  well  with  the  ends  of  the  fingers, 
not  the  nails,  for  five  minutes  every  night  and  morn- 
ing, is  good  for  the  scalp  and  hair.  Though  it  often 
rubs  out  dead  hair  it  is  very  beneficial,  making  a  new 
and  healthier  growth.  Never  use  raw  soap,  no  matter 
what  kind.  Raw  eggs  beaten  just  enough  to  break 
the  whites,  are  better  than  a  lather  for  very  greasy 
hair,  but  must  be  rinsed  well.  Leave  loose  at  night 
so  that  the  air  can  get  to  the  scalp.    Fresh  air,  cleans- 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  285 

ing  and  massaging  are  cheaper  and  better  than  tonics. 
Some  singe  the  end  of  the  hair  with  a  burning  match, 
during  the  time  of  the  new  moon  each  month.  Simply 
bring  the  braid  around  and  burn  off  the  tips.  Brush 
the  dust  out  each  night  or  give  a  sort  of  dry  shampoo 
every  third  night,  using  good  talcum  or  other  powders. 
This  not  only  cleanses  but  increases  the  circulation  of 
the  scalp  as  well  as  the  rubbing.  Shampoo  not  oftener 
than  every  two  weeks,  nor  less  than  four.  In  very 
hot  weather,  children  once  a  week  and  men  doing  very 
dirty  shop  work  can  shampoo  often,  without  injury,  if 
careful.  A  little  alcohol  is  good  for  the  scalp  occas- 
ionally and  good  talcum  or  equal  parts  of  therox  and 
orris  root  every  night  before  brushing,  cleanses  greasy 
hair  (this  is  dry  shampoo).  "Right  living  is  one  of  the 
best  means  of  keeping  hair  and  scalp  healthy." 

HAIR  BRUSHES 

It  pays  to  buy  a  good  hair  brush,  plain  but  good 
material,  and  wash  carefully  as  you  do  the  hair,  about 
once  a  week  or  once  in  two  weeks,  according  to  the 
work  you  do.  Dry  quickly  with  bristles  down  on  a" 
towel  in  the  sun  or  some  warm  place.  With  good 
care,  a  good  brush  will  last  for  years.  Each  person 
should  have  his  own  comb  and  brush.  If  one  can't 
afford  this,  then  keep  them  as  clean  as  possible. 

CARE  OF  TEETH 

Begin  with  early  childhood  and  teach  the  child  to 
clean  its  teeth  thoroughly,  at  least  once  a  day,  scrub- 
bing the  gums,  also  the  teeth  up  and  down.  Impress 
upon  him  the  value  of  this  through  life.  See  a  dentist 
occasionally  and  keep  in  as  good  shape  as  possible. 
Nothing  adds  more  to  personal  daintiness  and  health 
than  clean,  sound  teeth.    Clean  teeth  never  decay. 


88«  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

BREATHING 

From  early  childhood  the  nostrils  should  be  washed 
out  thoroughly  morning  and  evening  to  guard  against 
mouth  breathing.  Little  rags  may  be  kept  for  this  pur- 
pose and  burned  as  soon  as  used.  If  a  child  persists  in 
mouth  breathing  a  good  doctor  should  be  consulted. 

EXERCISE 

This  is  one  of  the  great  essentials  of  good  health. 
It  helps  the  four  organs  of  elimination  to  carry  off  the 
poisons  of  the  body.  Just  compare  the  body,  especial- 
ly the  workings  of  these  four  organs,  with  a  stove  or 
furnace  and  you  can  easily  see  that  a  clogged  up  sys- 
tem will  do  its  work  just  as  a  clogged  up  furnace  or 
stove  will. 

Lungs  carry  off  poison  by  expiration  or  breathing 
out.  The  skin  by  transpiration,  hence  the  necessity 
of  keeping  the  pores  open  by  means  of  bathing.  The 
kidneys  by  urination  and  the  bowels  by  defecation. 
This  last  is  so  often  abused  by  means  of  strong  ca- 
thartics which  should  be  avoided  and  take  a  course  as 
near  to  nature  as  possible. 

Plenty  of  fresh  air,  rest,  relaxation,  exercise,  bath- 
ing, good  water  and  good,  simple  food  properly 
cooked,  is  the  best  cure  for  constipation  and  atten- 
tion to  the  bowels  at  the  same  hour  every  day. 

A  simple  enema  of  salt  water  for  nine  days  at  the 
same  hour  each  day,  will  assist  nature  to  bring  one's 
self  to  a  normal  condition,  but  don't  let  the  use  of  the 
enema  become  a  habit.  Children  should  be  taught  to 
go  to  the  stool  at  the  same  hour  each  day.  Eight 
o'clock  or  a  little  earlier  in  the  morning  is  a  good 
hour,  then  it  won't  interfere  with  their  school  work 
It  is  easier  to  train  them  from  babyhood,  but  if  no 
started  from  babyhood,  start  at  once,  "Never  too  late 
to  learn"  and  "Better  late  than  never." 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  287 

HABITS 

Form  good  habits  from  early  childhood  and  keep 
them  through  life.  There  are  many  but  of  only  two 
I  will  speak,  1,  Use  paper  handkerchiefs  for  ex- 
pectorating and  burn,  thereby  showing  charity  to  the 
one  who  washes.  Never  spit  on  sidewalk  or  floor. 
2.  It  is  charitable  and  adds  much  to  one's  success  in 
life  to  call  people  by  their  correct  names  as  they  are 
often  very  sensitive  about  this  matter.  It  adds  much 
to  one's  self-respect  and  respect  for  others. 

Living  too  fast,  cooking  too  fast  and  eating  too 
fast  is  the  true  cause  of  tuberculosis  (the  Great  White 
Plague),  and  most  of  all  other  dreaded  diseases.  To 
these  three  causes  add  the  lack  of  fresh  air,  which  is 
rapidly  being  remedied  in  our  factories  and  other 
buildings. 

ACCIDENTAL  POISONING 

In  case  the  children  get  poison  or  one  takes  poison 
by  mistake,  keep  cool  and  the  first  thing  send  for  a 
physician.  While  he  is  coming,  induce  vomiting  by 
sticking  finger  in  mouth  to  tickle  throat.  Drink  a 
pint  of  warm  mustard  water  (^  teaspoonful  of 
mustard),  sweet  oil,  whites  of  eggs,  lard  or  anything 
that  will  cause  vomiting,  and  save  contents  for  doctor 
to  examine.  Vomiting  will  come  easy  if  you  only 
have  confidence  in  what  you  are  doing,  and  this  is 
often  all  that  is  necessary,  but  it  is  always  best  to 
have  the  doctor  for  fear  some  of  the  vital  organs  have 
been  weakened  and  need  stimulating. 

A  MENU 

for  anyone  in  ill  health,  no  matter  what  the  disease, 
which  will  greatly  assist  your  physician  in  getting  you 
well.  It  is  even  safe  in  typhoid  and  other  fevers,  ex- 
cept substitute  liquid  diet  for  the  regular  meals  and 


288  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

give  diet  two  or  three  times  during  the  night,  say 
about  10 :00,  2  :00  and  4 :50,  if  patient  is  awake ;  (sleep 
is  one  of  the  builders  of  health  and  strength).  If 
continued  from  six  to  twelve  weeks,  it  will  cure  se- 
vere eases  of  constipation,  nervousness  and  catarrh. 
Catarrh  and  colds  and  pimples  are  really  the  effect  of  a 
clogged  system  and  lack  of  rest,  in  other  words,  all 
run  down.  You  will  notice  that  water  is  not  given  too 
near  the  diet.  Fresh  air  all  times  of  night  and  day  is 
understood;  also  scientific  cooking. 

6  :00  a.  m.  Large  cup  of  hot  water  sipped  slowly 
with  spoon. 

6  :30  a.  m.  Arise,  take  a  cold  bath  or  a  slight  rub- 
bing all  over  with  cold  water  or  as  cold  as  you  can 
stand.  Then  rub  vigorously  with  a  towel.  This 
should  be  complete  in  five  minutes. 

7 :00.  Breakfast,  light  and  nourishing,  a  little 
fruit,  hot  breakfast  food,  toast,  poached  egg  or  soft 
boiled,  and  hot  milk. 

7  :00-10  :00.  If  a  convalescent,  rest  in  the  fresh  air 
and  have  some  one  give  you  an  oil  rub,  after  resting. 
Better  if  you  can  afford  a  trained  masseur  or  near  a 
sanitarium  where  you  can  go,  and  take  a  treatment 
every  day  or  even  once  a  week. 

9 :00.  Good  glass  of  cold  water  if  one  desires,  if 
not  let  it  go  unless  prescribed  by  doctor. 

10:00.  Nourishment,  hot  milk  is  best  of  all.  Just 
one  cup  or  one  can  take  an  eggnog,  dish  of  ice  cream 
occasionally,  egg  lemonade,  orangeade,  raw  egg  or  any 
little  thing  easy  to  digest. 

11 :00.  Pint  cup  of  hot  water  taken  slowly  as  in  the 
morning. 

12  :00.  Dinner.  Any  regular  dinner  of  simple  food 
properly  cooked,  eaten  slowly.  No  fried  meat,  no 
drink  of  any  kind.  Cold  water  may  be  taken  between 
2:00  and  3:00. 


) 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  289 

1 :00-3  :00.  Rest,  lying  down  in  loose  garments,  out- 
doors if  possible  and  alone.  You  cannot  relax  and 
entertain.  An  oil  rub  or  good  bath  is  beneficial  about 
3  :00  p.  m. 

4 :00.     Nourishment  as  at   10 :00  a,   m. 

5  :00.     Pint  cup  of  hot  water. 
.   6 :00.     Supper,   light   and   nourishing.     Hot   break- 
fast food  is  always  good. 

7  :00-9  :00.  Reading,  walking,  visiting,  being  careful 
not  to  overdo. 

9  :00.  Hot  milk  from  Yt.  cup  to  one  cup.  If  stomach 
is  inclined  to  contain  more  or  less  acid,  drink  one  cup 
of  hot  water  about  8  :00  o'clock ;  this  will  prepare  the 
stomach  for  the  milk — a  cup  of  Horlick's  malted  milk 
is  very  good  at  bedtime ;  it  tends  to  loosen  the  bowels 
and  kidneys  for  most  people. 

This  programme  is  meant  for  a  convalescent  or  sick 
one  at  home.  A  fever  case  should  not  be  rubbed  till 
getting  better  and  the  fever  is  gone.  Sponge  lightly 
instead. 

One  working  may  change  it  as  best  they  can  to  suit 
their  needs.  All  drinks  for  patients  should  be  strained, 
even  eggnog. 

A  careful  study  of  the  principles  and  recipes  of  this 
book  will  give  plenty  of  material  to  make  this  menu 
very  tasty  and  plenty  of  variety  for  different  dinners 
and  suppers  each  day. 

Last  but  not  least  in  this  chapter  are  four  good  rules 
to  secure  health  and  happiness : 

1.  Keep  the  head  cool. 

2.  Keep  the  feet  warm. 

3.  Keep  the  bowels  open.  ' 

4.  Live  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord. 

These  were  the  rules  given  by  some  noted  medical 
man. 

19 


290  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


MISCELLANEOUS 


(Items  that  were  omitted  in  other  chapters  may  be  found  here.) 

Meat  is  more  tender  after  being  kept  a  short  time 
than  when  first  killed.  In  winter,  beef  and  mutton 
will  keep  for  six  weeks  if  hung  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 
Some  rub  it  well  with  vinegar  and  salt  every  few  days. 
A  tough  piece  of  meat  may  be  laid  in  rather  weak  vin- 
egar, for  two  or  three  days,  to  which  spices  have  been 
added. 

To  make  a  tough  steak  tender,  put  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  vinegar  over  it  and  let  stand  about  twelve  hours. 
No  bacteria  can  live  in  the  vinegar.  In  winter  it  is 
cheaper  to  buy  a  supply  of  meat,  as  there  are  so  many 
ways  of  preparing  it,  as  sausage,  corn  beef. 

Pork  should  never  be  salted  before  it  is  cooled,  nor 
be  allowed  to  freeze  before  salting. 

It  is  not  good  to  let  meat  freeze,  as  it  loses  much 
of  its  nutriment,  also  toughens ;  but  if  it  does  freeze, 
do  not  allow  it  to  thaw  until  ready  to  cook.  Cold 
storage  and  freezing  do  not  mean  the  same.  A  room 
can  be  made  in  the  cellar,  very  clean,  sanitary  and  cold, 
almost  freezing,  which  will  keep  a  rather  even  temper- 
ature, for  meats,  milk  and  many  things.  Nothing 
warm  should  ever  enter  it — get  everything  cold — the 
same  rule  applies  to  an  icebox. 

To  make  choice  veal,  a  calf  should  never  be  allowed 
to  run  on  the  grass,  and  not  killed  too  young. 

In  dressing  a  lamb  or  sheep,  be  careful  not  to  let 
the  wool  touch  the  meat  or  fat,  as  it  taints  it  so  that 
it  cannot  be  used  for  cooking. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  291 

Mashed  potatoes,  with  an  egg,  may  be  used  for  a 
crust  for  a  meat  pie  with  enough  flour  to  roll  it  out. 

When  canned  tomatoes  are  not  on  hand  for  flavor- 
ing, use  catsup. 

Milk  gravy  makes  a  good  substitute  for  eggs  in 
making  croquettes,  patties,  etc. 

Secret  of  How  to  Make  Bad  Boys  Good:  Treat 
them  well.  "Trust  a  boy  and  you  make  him  trust- 
worthy." This  requires  much  care  and  study  and  the 
right  interpretation  of  the  meaning.  Treating  well 
does  not  mean  spoiling. 

Write  on  a  sheet  of  paper  emergencies  and  things 
you  do  not  want  to  forget  and  frame  or  passe  partout. 
Hang  in  the  kitchen  and  refer  to  it  occasionally,  or 
paste  on  front  of  kitchen  scrap  book.  It  may  save  you 
lots  of  accidents  and  money. 

Home  Made  Baking  Powder  (The  Best)  :  Nine 
ounces  of  the  best  bicarbonate  of  soda,  16  ounces  of 
cream  of  tartar,  %  pound  of  good  corn  starch  (^ 
pound  does  no  harm).  This  makes  about  2  pounds. 
Sift  about  ten  times,  so  that  it  will  be  thoroughly  mixed 
and  seal  in  pint  fruit  jars  or  small  cans.  Do  not  pack. 
This  makes  about  2y^  pint  jars — costing  about  sixty 
cents,  or  less.  Use  a  little  less  than  of  most  baking 
powders.    Buy  the  ingredients  from  your  druggist. 

Galvanized  iron  should  not  be  used  for  cooking  pur- 
poses, as  it  poisons. 

Water  should  not  pass  through  zinc-lined  iron  pipes. 

Water  should  not  be  used  from  hot  water  faucet  for 
cooking.  It  is  better  to  keep  a  large  tea  kettle  full  on 
the  stove,  or  small  one,  as  required. 

A  pitcher  or  pail  of  pure  cold  water  (the  colder  the 
better)  will  greatly  aid  in  ventilating  and  purifying  a 
room ;  it  absorbs  the  gases  from  respiration,  etc. 

It  is  well  to  mix  a  little  carbolic  acid  in  whitewash 
or  moresco  for  calcimining  the  cellar.  It  acts  both  as  a 


292  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

disinfectant  and  deodorizer.  Moresco  is  better,  as  it 
washes  off  easily  and  can  be  removed  and  renewed 
every  year  or  two ;  frequency  of  change  depends  on 
how  well  aired  and  how  much  the  cellar  is  used. 

There  is  no  excuse  for  a  foul  smelling  cellar  if  just 
a  little  common  sense  and  good  management  are  used 
in  caring  for  it. 

In  Building  a  house,  whether  it  be  a  cottage  or  a 
mansion,  particular  attention  should  be  given  to  the 
sanitary  and  keeping  qualities  of  a  cellar;  the  dryer, 
lighter  and  more  airy,  the  better.  If  there  is  to  be  a 
laundry  and  heating  plant,  they  should  be  well  shut 
off  from  the  vegetable  and  fruit  part.  The  fruit  part 
should  be  in  such  condition  that  it  can  both  be  dark- 
ened and  lighted,  if  possible,  so  that  during  a  good  part 
of  the  summer  it  may  be  left  open. 

A  pail  of  cold  water  w'ill  aid  to  prevent  freezing  and 
also  help  purify,  but  it  must  be  changed  frequently, 
and,  where  the  wall  is  not  hollow,  it  would  be  well  to 
lay  clean  old  boards  against  the  part  of  the  wall  used 
for  cold  storage,  or  one  can  easily  fix  potatoes,  etc.,  so 
there  will  be  a  layer  of  air  between  them  and  the  wall. 
The  same  would  be  well  to  serve  underneath.  For 
this  reason,  barrels  are  better  than  bins  and  should  be 
set  up  off  the  floor,  but  either  should  be  put  out  in  the 
summer  time  to  be  purified  for  winter  use. 

More  money  should  be  spent  for  sanitation  and  com- 
mon sense  in  the  building  of  a  house  than  in  orna- 
mentation. A  house  can  be  planned  to  save  labor, 
time  and  steps,  and  still  present  a  good  appearance  by 
its  simplicity.  Long,  dark,  dismal  halls  should  be 
done  away  with — the  parlor  also — making  the  living 
room,  with  plenty  of  warmth  and  light,  always  a  pleas- 
ant place  for  both  callers  and  family. 

When  dry  garbage  is  burned  in  the  backyard,  one 
place  only  should  be  kept  for  that  purpose  and  the 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  293 

ashes  should  be  swept  up  and  put  in  garbage  can ; 
this  keeps  the  yard  cleaner  and  will  not  annoy  the 
neighbors  or  destroy  the  lawn;  or  if  one  has  a  little 
garden,  it  may  be  burned  in  a  hollow  and  then  covered 
with  dirt,  or  in  little  holes  dug  here  and  there  and  slops 
thrown  in  with  it  for  fertilization. 

On  a  farm  there  is  usually  some  place  to  be  filled 
in  where  ashes  and  so  forth  may  be  put  and  covered. 
Always  bury  garbage  that  cannot  be  burned  or  used 
for  fertilization  very  deep  unless  hauled  away. 

•A  cistern  should  never  be  built  under  the  house  and 
should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  at  least  once  a  year.  An 
out-door  closet  can  be  made  almost  odorless  by  keep- 
ing on  hand  a  box  or  pail  of  pulverized  clay  or  garden 
soil  (dry)  with  a  shovel  in  it.  The  boxes  or  vault 
should  be  cleaned  at  least  once  a  month ;  the  contents 
can  be  used  as  a  fertilizer.  Wet  slops  should  not  be 
thrown  in,  but  thrown  in  different  places  so  as  to 
avoid  smelling.  A  sprinkling  can  with  water  and  a  little 
Formalin  is  fine  for  closet,  cellar,  etc. 

A  sort  of  hood  can  be  placed  above  the  kitchen  range 
attached  to  the  pipe  or  chimney  to  carry  off  the 
worst  of  the  gas,  steam  and  smoke. 

Old  stove  boards  (zinc),  registers,  brass  fixtures, 
etc.,  can  be  made  to  look  like  new  by  painting  with 
stove  pipe  enamel. 

One  gallon  of  paint,  which  may  be  bought  in  quart 
or  half-gallon  pails,  of  different  colors,  with  about  one 
quart  each  of  turpentine  and  oil  for  thinning,  will  do 
borders  and  prime  the  centers  of  four  ordinary  size 
floors.  The  turpentine  and  oil  should  be  added  only 
as  needed.  Chip  glue  dissolved  in  luke  warm  water  over 
night  cleanses  walls.     Wipe  dry. 

A  bicycle  pump  may  be  used  to  clean  tufted  furni- 
ture. 

Sidewalks. — Whether  one  lives  in  the  country  or  in 
town,  sidewalks  mean  a  reduction  of  a  great  deal  of 
the  hard  labor  in  the  house,  even  if  one  can  only  afford 


294  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

them  one  foot  wide.  If  the  earth  is  cut  away  from 
them  for  two  or  three  inches  and  a  little  ashes  banked 
on  each  side,  it  will  keep  the  grass  from  growing  over 
them  and  also  drain  off  the  water.  They  should  be 
kept  clean  summer  and  winter  and  show  the  kind  of 
people  inside  the  house  no  matter  where  the  home  may 
be.  Transform  the  unsightly  backyard  into  a  spot  of 
beauty.  Encourage  the  children  to  help  by  picking 
up  sticks,  etc. 

The  stringy  part  of  the  egg  should  always  be  re- 
moved, no  matter  how  it  is  prepared  for  food.  When 
eggs  are  high  priced,  save  one  or  two  wherever  pos- 
sible by  substituting  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 

Near  dock  and  dandelion  leaves,  mixed  or  either  one 
alone,  make  nice  greens  in  the  early  spring.  Both  have 
medicinal  properties.  Beet  greens  are  often  good  in 
September  if  in  a  shady  place. 

JUST  A  FEW  SEWING  HINTS 

When  hemming  sheets,  begin  an  inch  or  two  from 
the  edge  and  sew  back  to  the  edge,  then  turn  and  hem 
in  the  usual  way ;  and  when  the  other  edge  is  reached, 
turn  and  sew  back  an  inch  or  two.  This  prevents  cor- 
ners from  ripping.  The  same  may  be  done  with  towels, 
handkerchiefs,  napkins,  etc.  Draw  a  thread  to  cut 
those  things  even. 

Begin  collar  and  skirt  bands  at  the  center  and  baste 
toward  each  end. 

Little  arm  holes  of  underwaists  have  much  better 
shape  if  sewed  both  ways  when  hemming  as  the  collar 
band. 

Bleached  flour  sacks  make  good  strong  little  waists. 
Sew  little  squares  of  goods  doubled  on  each  side  for 
pinning  the  garters. 

It  a  skirt  turns  out  so  that  an  even  hem  cannot  be 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  295 

turned  at  bottom,  simply  hem  a  ruffle  and  put  it  on 
underneath  without  gathering.  It  will  appear  like  a 
hem  on  the  right  side.  The  uneven  hem  should  be 
blind  stitched.    Iron  separately  as  you  would  a  ruffle. 

Rip  seams  with  a  razor  and  if  there  is  no  one  to 
hold  one  side  of  the  goods,  pin  it  to  something  firm 
by  means  of  a  strong  cloth  band. 

To  remove  old  paper  from  the  walls,  wet  well  two 
or  three  times  with  a  large  paint  brush  and  luke  warm 
water,  being  careful  not  to  let  dry  between  soakings. 

For  paste  for  scrap  books'  and  wall  paper  see  Boiled 
Starch,  using  flour  instead. 

Old  pine  floors  can  be  made  very  artistic  by  scrub- 
bing well,  sand-papering  a  little  and  painting  or  stain- 
ing to  match  rugs,  then  finish  with  a  thin  coat  of  floor 
varnish.  Varnish  is  easily  applied  if  sufficiently 
thinned  with  turpentine;  and  paint  should  be  kept 
thinned  with  turpentine  and  oil.  One  thin  coat  of  each 
is  sufficient  unless  very  light  colored,  then  use  two 
coats  of  paint.  It  is  well  to  prime  that  part  of  the 
floor  under  the  rugs  as  it  helps  to  save  the  rugs  from 
dust. 

One  coat  of  paint  makes  them  sanitary,  while  two 
coats,  of  the  right  color,  make  them  very  artistic.  Com- 
mon house  paint  can  be  used.  Write  to  companies  for 
little  booklets  on  decorating.  The  floor  varnish  will 
save  it,  and  if  washed  carefully  with  moderately  cold 
water  and  soft  scrubbing  brush  occasionally,  it  will 
last  for  ten  years.  The  weekly  cleaning  only  requires 
wiping  off  with  a  soft  dust  cloth  which  may  be  tied  on 
the  broom,  or  dusted  as  furniture. 

The  large  cracks  in  floors  should  be  well  filled  with 
soft  putty  moulded  with  a  few  drops  of  paint  oil  or 
pounded  with  the  hammer  on  glass.  After  filling, 
smooth  with  the  finger  and  scrape  off  clean  on  each 
side  of  the  crack.    The  small  cracks  can  be  filled  with 


296  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

paint.  Some  use  melted  paraffin  where  a  room  is 
always  cool. 

The  floor  must  be  thoroughly  dry  before  painting 
and  each  coat  should  be  dry  before  applying  the  next. 
If  wanted  very  nice,  sand-paper  again  after  first  coat 
is  dry.  It  will  dry  in  one  day  but  does  not  harden  for 
a  week  or  so.  If  brushes  get  hard,  put  in  strong  hot 
"Gold  Dust"  suds  over  night. 

Two  large  nails  placed  across  the  top  of  a  lamp 
chimney  is  a  good  way  of  warming  milk  at  night  for 
the  baby  or  an  invalid.^  It  can  be  placed  on  a  little 
table  near  the  bed,  making  it  unnecessary  to  get  up 
in  the  night. 

To  prevent  kettles  from  boiling  over,  use  an  old 
fashioned  loaf  cake  tin  that  opened  m  the  center,  for 
a  cover. 

Those  who  are  not  very  strong  and  are  unable  to 
do  their  own  washing  or  hire  it  done,  can  heat  a  kettle 
of  suds  each  morning  and  do  what  little  they  can  in 
half  an  hour.  In  this  way  they  will  not  use  up  their 
strength  and  the  washing  will  not  accumulate. 

If  there  is  no  cream  for  coffee,  scald  the  milk. 

CURING  HAMS,  BACON  AND  DRIED  BEEF 

The  proportion  would  be  one  pound  of  medium 
brown  sugar  to  two  of  good  barrel  salt  and  one  ounce 
of  black  pepper  ground  fine.  The  amount  here  given 
is  sufficient  for  twenty-five  pounds,  pork  or  beef. 

The  Process 

If  quantity  is  small,  use  a  granite  dish  pan  for  the 
curing.  Spread  mixture  an  inch  thick  over  all  the  sur- 
face, with  rind  down,  changing  each  day  that  every 
part  of  the  meat  may  receive  its  due  allowance,  add- 
ing more  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  each  day  for  sixteen 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  297 

days.     Then  take  out,  wash,  scrape,  and  wipe  clean 
and  dry,  and  smoke.    (This  is  excellent  for  dried  beef.) 

Smoking  Process 

The  meat  can  be  hung  to  the  top  of  a  clean  flour 
barrel  (bottom  upside  down)  or  a  box,  by  strong  twine 
in  several  ways.  Then  place  so  that  smoke  may  be 
directed  to  it  by  means  of  a  link  or  two  of  stove  pipe 
laid  in  a  sort  of  trench  in  the  ground. 

The  sweet-corn  cobs  may  be  saved  from  the  table 
during  the  year  and  dried  for  smoking.  Some  have 
excellent  success  with  dried  sawdust  and  pieces  of  old 
apple  tree. 

Do  not  throw  off  the  brine  that  collects  in  the  pan. 
The  process  of  curing  takes  about  sixteen  days  and 
smoking  from  ten  days  to  four  weeks,  according  to 
size.  They  may  be  packed  in  oats  to  keep  or  wrapped 
in  clean  cloth  or  paper  and  kept  in  clean  leached  dry 
ashes.  In  smoking  be  careful  never  to  get  too  hot. 
This  meat  is  firm  and  sweet  and  will  keep  almost  any 
length  of  time  if  cured  in  winter  and  allowed  to  dry 
by  hanging  up  and  then  properly  protected  from  flies. 

If  the  meat  is  wanted  red,  use  saltpeter,  one-fourth 
ounce  {}i  oz.)  to  the  quantity  given.  (I  never  use 
this  as  I  do  not  think  it  so  good.) 

Rub  steak  well  with  black  pepper  if  the  weather  is 
warm  and  you  have  no  ice  on  hand. 

Boil  bones  for  meat  gravy  if  you  have  nothing  else ; 
gravy  is  very  saving  as  well  as  tasty  and  appetizing. 

HOME  MADE  WINE 

Wash  the  grapes.  Some  stem  them  and  some  do 
not.  Press  the  juice  and  strain  through  a  cheese  cloth 
bag,  but  do  not  press.  To  each  gallon  of  juice  use 
from  1  to  I'j/i  gallons  of  water.    Then  to  each  gallon 


298  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

of  this  mixture  add  1  pound  (2  cups)  of  sugar.  Mix 
well  and  let  stand  in  open  jars  for  about  four  weeks, 
skimming  once  each  day.  Then  drop  in  the  white  of 
an  egg,  unbeaten,  and  let  stand  another  week,  skim- 
ming if  necessary.  Then  strain  and  bottle  and  leave 
the  bottles  uncorked  for  a  week  or  they  will  break. 

HINTS  FOR  BUTTERMAKING 
(Small  Quantity) 

The  cream  should  be  well  ripened  but  not  allowed 
to  get  too  old  so  as  to  develop  bad  flavors.  It  should 
be  well  stirred  about  twice  a  day.  When  ready  for 
churning  it  should  be  cooled  to  between  60  and  65 
degrees  F.,  and  then  churned.  When  the  butter  has 
gathered  in  lumps,  and  the  buttermilk  drained  off,  it 
should  be  washed  in  clear  cold  water,  then  salted  and 
worked.  The  proportion  of  salt  is  one  ounce  salt  to 
one  pound  butter.  Butter  should  be  worked  only 
enough  to  mix  in  the  salt  and  work  out  most  of  the 
water — aiming  to  make  it  smooth,  but  not  like  salve. 
It  is  greatly  improved  by  letting  stand  twelve  hours 
and  press  out  a  little  more  water  before  packing.* 

Have  everything  sterile,  even  the  hands.  The  room 
or  cellar  where  it  is  made  should  be  rather'  cool  and 
free  from  dust  and  odors.  A  cake  bowl  and  spoon 
makes  a  fair  churn  till  one  has  better. 

Butter  and  milk  kept  in  an  icebox  must  be  kept  so 
they  will  not  absorb  the  odors  of  fruits  and  other, 
things,  especially  melons  and  bananas. 

An  icebox  should  have  a  thorough,  careful  cleans- 
ing at  least  once  a  week,  and  in  the  meantime,  if  any- 
thing is  spilled  in  it,  it  should  be  wiped  up  immedi- 
ately, thereby  helping  to  keep  it  sterile.  Everything 
should  be  thoroughly  cooled  before  putting  into  the 

•Some  very  careful  housewives  work  butter  three  times  before  packing; 
this  is  a  good  method  where  butter  must  be  kept  for  some  time.  It  must 
stand  twelve  hours  between  each  working,  thus  packing  twenty-four  hours 
after  churning. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  299 

icebox.  A  good  grade  of  paraffin  paper,  jelly  glasses 
with  covers,  nice  clean  lard  pails  with  covers,  and 
many  other  things  may  be  used  to  keep  things  nice 
in  the  icebox. 

PRESERVING  EGGS* 

Do  not  wash  eggs,  as  it  removes  part  of  the  natural 
coating  and  opens  the  way  for  germs  to  enter,  which 
spoil  the  eggs.  Their  keeping  depends  on  sterilization 
as  well  as  other  things  preserved.  If  boiled  eggs  are 
wanted  after  preserving  in  this  manner,  pierce  the 
shell  carefully  with  a  strong  needle.  Eggs  must  be 
strictly  fresh.  -  To  one  cup  of  water  glass  add  ten  to 
fourteen  cups  of  cold  sterile  water.  Pack  the  eggs 
in  a  jar  and  pour  Solution  over  them,  covering  well. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 

TO  ECONOMIZE  ON  GAS 

1.  Do  not  light  the  burner  and  then  fill  the  tea 
kettle  afterward ;  fill  it  first,  and  lower  the  flame  after 
it  is  hot  enough. 

2.  Do  not  leave  the  flame  high  after  the  vegetable 
or  meat  has  begun  to  boil. 

3.  After  the  oven  is  well  heated  it  will  bake  just  as 
well  and  even  better  with  the  excess  of  flame  turned 
oflf. 

4.  Matches  are  cheaper  than  gas. 

5.  Do  not  fold  clothes  till  through  ironing,  and 
when  irons  are  well  heated,  lower  the  flame. 

6.  Bread  may  be  dried  for  crumbs  and  a  stale  loaf 
freshened,  after  removing  a  roast  or  anything  else, 
while  the  oven  is  cooling. 

7.  It  is  best  to  roast  enough  for  two  or  three  days 
and  also  boil  potatoes  enough  for  two  days,  as  the 
leftover  dishes  require  but  little  cooking. 

8.  Rinse  cooking  utensils  and  any  sticky  dishes 

•Eggs  may  be  put  in  a  wire  basket,  dipped  for  %  minute  in  boiling  water^ 
cooUOt  and  packed  in  oats  with  the  imall  end  down. 


300  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

with  cold  water,  then  finish  with  one  kettle  of  good 
hot  water. 

9.     Use  cozies  or  old  towels  wherever  possible. 
10.     Aim  to  bake  as  many  things  as  possible  at  the 
same  time. 

A  little  flour  or  corn  starch  (>^  or  1  teaspoonful)  is 
excellent  to  mix  with  the  sugar  in  making  custards, 
squash  and  custard  pie,  cream  of  wheat  pudding  and 
many  dishes  where  one  can  afford  to  use  only  one  or 
two  eggs;  A  suggestion  of  either  is  nice  in  cocoa. 
Either  one  is  nice  to  thicken  all  kinds  of  soup.  They 
can  be  used  in  making  table  syrup  and  color  with 
mapeline;  it  won't  be  so  clear,  but  requires  much  less 
sugar. 

Grated  lemon  rind  is  excellent  for  flavoring  pies, 
custards,  sauces,  and  many  other  things. 

Keep  things  off  the  floor  as  much  as  possible.  Floor 
dust  is  very  injurious  to  all  kinds  of  articles,  especially 
satchels,  shoes,  etc.,  even  if  the  floor  is  dusted  every 
day, 

FURNISHING  AND  CARE  OF  A  BEDROOM 

Besides  the  ordinary  furniture,  the  bedroom  is  not 
complete  without  match  safe,  match  scratcher  and 
match  receiver,  scrap  basket,  (a  pretty  screen  may  be 
made  to  match  the  room  to  hide  the  washstand  which 
is  usually  in  bedrooms  where  there  is  no  bathroom  in 
the  house),  a  little  table  or  desk. 

Keep  the  toilet  articles  clean  and  dry,  being  careful 
not  to  let  them  drip  on  floor  when  emptying.  Keep  a 
few  old  clean  towels  near  by  for  protecting  the  floor 
by  catching  the  drip  on  the  outside,  or  turn  upside 
down  on  newspapers  after  emptying.  Scald  at  least 
once  a  week;  every  day  where  there  is  sickness. 

Candles  are  nice  for  night  use,  especially  where  there 
are  children;  they  also  add  to  the  appearance  of  the 
dresser.    There  should  be  two  sets  of  covers  for  dres- 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  301 

ser  (chiffonier),  washstand  and  table,  which  can  be 
made  from  bleached  flour  sacks  and  neatly  hemmed. 
When  starched  and  ironed  they  are  simple  and  pretty. 

Avoid  "stuffiness"  or  "curiosity  shop"  effect  in  any 
room ;  it  means  too  much  labor  and  is  not  so  sanitary 
as  the  simply  furnished  room,  nor  so  pretty. 

If  a  room  has  no  molding,  paste  on  bands  of  cloth 
and  over  that  paste  ribbon  or  strips  cut  from  pretty 
cloth  or  paper  to  match  the  room.  This  will  be  strong 
enough  to  hold  tacks  for  small  pictures. 

Neat  little  folding  scrap  baskets  may  be  made  of 
pasteboard  covered  with  wall  paper  and  tied  together 
with  tape  or  ribbon  to  match  the  room.  The  use  of 
these  trains  children  in  habits  of  neatness,  daintiness, 
etc. 

Shelve  the  closets  up  to  the  ceiling  above  where  the 
clothes  hang;  make  use  of  all  the  space  possible. 

Mince  meat  can  be  made  without  meat  by  using 
more  chopped  fruit,  especially  lemons  and  oranges, 
raisins,  currants,  apples,  etc. 

Lemons  can  be  kept  for  some  time  in  a  jar  of  cold 
water  in  a  cool  place. 

No  matter  what  your  position,  though  a  servant, 
win  the  esteem  and  love  of  all  by  cheerfulness,  kind- 
ness, truthfulness,  cleanliness  of  both  yourself  and 
work,  and  the  practice,  always,  of  the  golden  rule. 

Place  hooks  in  kitchen  and  closets  where  children 
can  reach  them  easily.  Put  hangers  on  all  their  clothes 
and  initials  when  the  garments  look  alike.  For  nice 
pieces  they  should  be  taught  the  use  of  patent  hangers. 
Teach  them  to  hang  up  and  get  their  own  clothes. 
This  teaches  them  pride,  individuality,  neatness  and 
system.    Apply  the  same  principle  to  the  care  of  toys. 

No  matter  what  your  work,  have  a  system  and  strive 
to  m.ake  that  system  perfect,  saving  both  steps  and 
time.  One  can  save  themselves  and  yet  do  their  work 
well.    Good  systems  can  be  learned  from  books,  etc. 


802  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

There  is  nothing  gained  by  slighting  work  if  you 
want  to  save  labor. 

Conscientious  and  faithful  girls  are  never  out  of  em- 
ployment, either  at  home  or  away  from  home.  Much 
time  can  be  used  profitably  in  good  reading.  Avoid 
gadding  and  idle  gossip.  Be  pleasant  and  useful  no 
matter  where. 

To  waste  carelessly  is  almost  as  wrong  as  to  steal. 

Never  break  a  promise  to  children,  or  frighten 
them  with  stories  or  make  them  afraid  of  the  dark,  or 
help  them  to  conceal  wrong-doing,  whether  you  be  the 
mother,  nurse  or  servant. 

A  servant  should  never  consider  his  or  her  work 
degrading  unless  made  so  by  themselves.  There  is 
no  work  more  honorable,  as  the  health  and  happiness 
of  the  family  depend  on  them.  Being  on  the  lookout 
for  slights  is  an  evidence  of  vanity,  laziness,  dishon- 
esty and  other  faults.  Whoever  looks  down  upon  one 
because  of  honest  labor  done  conscientiously  is  not 
worth  minding. 

Open  the  doors  for  three  or  four  minutes  on  a  very 
cold  day  and  you  will  be  surprised  how  much  quicker 
the  house  warms  up  and  how  much  warmer  you  feel. 
It  should  be  done  a  few  times  during  the  day,  thus 
changing  impure  air  for  fresh. 

Some  are  very  successful  roasting  potatoes  in  the 
upper  part  of  a  self-feeding  coal  heater.  The  coal 
should  be  little  more  than  half  way  down ;  also  broiling 
and  roasting  meat  underneath  the^repot  after  having 
shaken  down  the  ashes  and  thorough  cleaned  the  ash 
pan — a  broiler  and  dripping  pan  should  be  used. 

When  one  has  to  get  along  with  one  fire,  which  is 
usually  the  kitchen  fire,  then,  when  dressing  the  chil- 
dren, comb  their  hair  over  newspapers,  being  careful 
of  the  stray  hair. 

When  the  hair  flies  and  seems  impossible  to  comb, 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


303 


rub  a  clean,  damp  wash-rag  over  it  or  the  comb,  which 
will  control  the  electricity,  being  careful  not  to  wet 
the  hair. 

No  matter  what  place  you  occupy  in  the  family, 
whether  one  of  the  family  or  not,  always  be  on  time 
to  your  meals.  It  shows  respect  for  the  one  who  pre- 
pares the  meal  and  saves  lots  of  expense,  time  and 
trouble.  Promptness  is  one  of  the  means  of  success 
through  life. 


A  few  of  the 
means  of  edu- 
cating one's 
self. 


MAXIM : 

We  learn  to  do 

by  doing. 


Chautauquas. 

Right  kind  of  clubs. 

Library  Books.  ^ 

Magazines.  >■  All  must  be  good. 

Newspapers.       J 

Good  conversation. 

Observation. 

Letters  to  Marion  Harland  or  other  good,  re- 
liable sources. 

Reading  the  answers  to  others'  letters  through 
the  papers. 

Thinking  and  planning. 

Attending  good  lectures  at  least  three  or  four 
times  a  year. 

Asking  questions. 

Willing  to  be  corrected. 

Consideration  for  others. 

Catalogues. 

It  is  well  to  read  more  than  you  can  make 
use  of  and  a  little  beyond  one's  under- 
standing. 


French  Dressing  makes  sardines  very  palatable,  as 
well  as  easier  to  digest. 

Work  a  little  salt  into  oleomargarine;  it  will  keep 
better.    It  should  be  kept  as  carefully  as  butter. 

The  uppers  of  clean,  old  stockings  and  socks  make 
good  dish-cloths.  It  is  well  to  have  a  half  dozen  dish- 
cloths in  use,  changing  every  day  and  treating  the 
soiled  ones  to  the  weekly  wash  as  other  clothes.  They 
should  always  be  dried  before  putting  in  the  laundry. 
Anything  but  a  foul  dish-cloth  or  mop-rag. 


304  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

Some  save  and  hem  the  large  salt  sacks,  that  is  the 
eight-pound  sacks,  which  are  also  very  nice. 

Canvas  gloves  come  handy  for  doing  many  things 
in  and  around  the  house,  and  a  bathing  or  gymnasium 
suit  is  handy  to  don  while  house  cleaning. 

A  pinch  of  salt,  or  a  little  more,  is  very  good  in  all 
kinds  of  pudding  sauces  and  cakes. 

A  little  sugar  i_s  excellent  in  almost  all  vegetables 
and  vegetable  soups ;  it  improves  corn,  either  in  the 
ear  or  can.  Flour  the  hands  while  handling  raisins 
to  keep  them  from  being  sticky. 

Turn  the  chopping  bowl  upside  down  when  putting 
away,  to  prevent  cracking;  also  wash-tubs. 

One  can  get  cooking  to  such  a  point  that,  by  know- 
ing how  to  get  all  the  food  value  out  of  food,  so  that 
every  possible  amount  can  be  digested,  she  can  have 
the  working  members  of  the  family  properly  nourished 
on  from  ten  to  twelve  cents  a  day  each. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  waste,  not  only  of  the  food 
itself  but  by  careless  methods  of  cooking  through 
which  too  great  a  percentage  of  that  taken  into  the 
system  cannot  be  used  by  it;  this  is  a  waste  of  both 
money  and  strength  and  when  practiced  too  long  re- 
sults in  sickness. 

To  Make  "Cozies." — Cut  two  or  three  thicknesses 
of  flour  sacks  (though  old  wool  cloth  is  better,  being 
a  non-conductor  of  heat),  using  the  cover  of  the  kettle 
for  a  pattern.  Quilt  them  together  just  a  little  bit. 
Then  sew  a  straight  piece  made  of  two  or  three  thick- 
nesses, also,  around  the  edge  of  the  cover  piece,  leav- 
ing it  open  at  one  side,  so  as  to  slip  easily  over  the 
kettle  and  pin  after  putting  on.  This  straight  piece 
should  be  at  least  two  or  three  inches  from  the  stove 
so  as  not  to  catch  fire. 

One  needs  but  very  little  fuel  with  these,  while  the 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  305 

cooking  is  more  scientific  and  delicious,  but,  like  the 
fireless  cooker,  they  require  time. 

A  very  low  lighted  burner  on  a  gas  stove,  with  this, 
would  cook  cereal  over  night,  but  risky  unless  lots 
of  open  windows. 

The  fireless  cooker  is  excellent  for  cooking  cereals 
over  night,  stewed  chicken,  canning  fruits,  etc. 

Heavy  "cozies"  can  also  be  made  to  protect  the  milk 
from  freezing  that  is  delivered  early  in  the  morning, 
and  buckwheat  set  over  night.  A  heavy  pad  should 
be  made  to  put  under  these  protecting  from  cold  under- 
neath. 

When  you  read  items  of  emergencies,  cut  out  and 
paste  on  the  front  of  your  cook  book  or  scrap  book. 

A  brick  is  capable  of  absorbing  almost  a  pound  of 
water,  which  is  the  reason  for  brick  houses  being 
damp.  Stone  is  not  so  damp.  Neither  one  should  be 
plastered  on  the  bare  wall. 

Personal  habits  of  both  manners  and  cleanliness 
should  be  taught  to  the  child,  beginning  as  early  as 
two  years  of  age.  This  is  one  of  the  great  responsibil- 
ities of  a  mother,  as  it  means  so  much  for  the  child's 
success  when  he  has  to  fight  the  world's  battles.  If 
she  does  not  train  him  he  will  learn  from  others,  much 
to  his  or  her  humiliation. 

TREES* 

Last,  but  not  least,  every  housewife  should  encour- 
age the  planting  and  good  care  of  trees,  whether 
owner  of  the  property  or  not,  and  help  others  to  care 
for  their  trees  by  teaching  the  little  folks  of  their  great 
use  and  beauty,  so  that  they  will  not  ruin  them.  Trees 
should  never  be  planted  too  close  to  a  building.  Large 
evergreen  hedges  are  a  great  protection  to  farmers,  and 
with  other  hedges,  are  useful  as  well  as  ornamental. 

*"''WheTi  we  plant  a  tree  we  are  doing  what  we  can  to  make  our  planet 
8  more  whoic^~-~-»  -ajad  iiaQriierfllace  for  those  who  come  after  \iS'"~~OH'iJer 
Wendell  Holmes. 

0|}  « 


306 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


The  writer  has  planted  about  six  hundred  trees  in  ten 
years,  by  getting  the  seedHngs  from  the  nursery  and 
keeping  them  well  freed  from  weeds  and  grass  during 
the  first  two  years.  Seedlings  only  cost  about  50 
cents  per  hundred  and  are  easy  to  plant  and  take  care 
of.  One  can  do  Arbor  Day  duty  two  or  three  weeks 
ahead,  or  much  can  be  done  the  previous  autumn. 

"O,  Woodman,  spare  that  tree; 

Touch  not  a  single  bough," 

BIRTHDAY  STONES 
What  They  Signify 


January   . . .    Garnet Constancy. 

February.  . .     Amethyst 


j  Sincerity 

I  Contentment 


March Bloodstone 

April Diamond  . . 

May Emerald  . . 

(  Arrnf^  )  Health 


j  Wise.  . . . . . 

(  Brave  

Innocence , 
Happiness 


July. 


Ruby. 


Purity 
Love,    Nobility 
of  Mind 


August I  ^^JonsTone  :  (  Conjugal  Bliss. 


September . 

October 

November.  , 

December  . , 


Sapphire.. 
Opal 


Wisdom. 
Chastity. 
Hope  . . . 


Topaz Friendship 

j  Success  . . . 
(  Happiness. 


Turquoise 


Flowers. 
Wild  Rose. 

Pink. 

Violet. 

Easter  Lily. 

Lily  of  the  Valley. 

Rose. 

Daisy. 
Pond  Lily. 

Poppy. 

Cosmos. 
Chrysanthemum. 

Holly. 


WEDDING  ANNIVERSARIES 


1st  Year — Cotton 

2nd  Year — Paper 

3rd  Year — Leather 

5th  Year — Wooden 

7th  Year— Woolen 
10th  Year— Tin 
12th  Year — Silk,  Fine  Linen 


15th  Year — Crystal 
20th  Year— China 
25th  Year— Silver 
30th  Year— Pearl 
40th  Year— Ruby 
50th  Year— Gold 
75th  Year — Diamond 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  307 

SYMBOLIC  MEANING  OF  COLORS 

White —  Light,  purity,  innocence,  faith,  joy  and  life. 

Red —      Signifies  fire,  divine  love,  royalty. 

Blue —     Truth,  constancy  and  fidelity. 

Yellow — The  symbol  of  the  sun  of  marriage  and  faithfulness. 

Green —  Hope  and  victory. 

Violet —  Love  and  truth,  passion  and  suffering. 

Purple — Good  and  true. 

Black —   Despair,  darkness,  earthliness,  wickedness  and  death. 

THE  LANGUAGE  OF  FLOWERS 

Bachelor's  Buttons  Celibacy 

Bluebell   Constancy 

Chrysanthemum Love,  Truth 

Daisy ■ Innocence 

Forget-me-not   True  love 

Golden  Rod  Precaution 

Lily Purity,  Sweetness 

Lily  of  the  Valley Return  of  happiness 

Nasturtium    Patriotism 

Pansy  Thoughts 

Poppy  Consolation,  Forgetfulness 

Rose   Love 

Shamrock   Light-heartedness 

Sweet  Pea   Delicate  pleasure 

Tulip   Fame 

Violet  Faithfulness,  Modesty 

Thistle  Austerity,  Retaliation 


"France  has  the  lily,  England  the  rose, 
Everybody  knows  where  the  shamrock  grows ; 
Scotland  has  the  thistle  that  grows   on  the  hill, 
America's  emblem — the  violet  (golden-rod)  still." 


Monday's  child  is  fair  of  face; 
Tuesday's  child  is  full  of  grace; 
Wednesday's  child  is  merry  and  glad ; 
Thursday's  child  is  sorry  and  sad ; 
Friday's  child  is  loving  and  giving ; 
And  Saturday's  child  must  work  for  his  living ; 
While  the  child  that  is  born  on  the  Sabbath  day 
Is  blithe  and  bonny  and  good  and  gay. 


808  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 


QUOTATIONS  AND  EXTRACTS 


Suggested  to  encourage  the  progress  of  the  home- 
makers,  children  and_  the  young  folks  starting  out  on 
life's  great  battle,  and,  having  started,  to  keep  up  the 
fight.  These  all  bear  upon  your  work  either  directly 
or  indirectly  and  many  upon  one's  health  and  happi- 
ness. 

I  have  selected  these  from  three  good  sized  note 
books  of  quotations,  which  I  have  collected  from  the 
books  I  have  read  for  about  twenty  years.  Some  are 
reproduced  from  memory,  but  I  can't  remember  the 
author's  name. 

HER  FAITH 

"Comes  a  letter  from  my  mother,  bidding  me  to  bravely  strive, 
And  within  my  breast  another  precious  day  finds  hope  alive; 
With  new  courage  I'll  endeavor  to  perform  as  best  I  may; 
No  temptation  whatsoever  shall  appeal  to  me  today ; 
She  is  confidently  hoping  and  her  hope  shall  be  my  strength; 
I  shall  cease  my  timid  groping  and  reward  her  faith  at  length. 
Linger  for  a  moment,  brother,  ere  you  bid  your  hopes  adieu ; 
Have  you  not  somewhere  a  mother  who  has  hoped  and  prayed 

for  you? 
Though  a  hundred  times  defeated,  can  you  weakly  turn  aside, 
Knowing  that  she  shall  be  cheated  of  her  hopes  and  of  her  pride? 

Author  Unknown. 

"It  is  not  work  that  kills  men;  it  is  worry.  You  can  hardly 
put  more  upon  a  mm  than  he  can  bear.  Worry  is  rust  upon  the 
blade.  It  is  not  the  revolution  that  destroys  the-machinery,  but 
the  friction." — Beecher. 

"God  nothing  does,  nor  suffers  to  be  done,  but  thou  thyself 
wouldst  do,  if  thou  couldst  see  the  end  of  all  events  as  well  as 
Ha" 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  309 

"Success  in  life  is  not  gained  by  never  making  a  mistake, 
but  by  never  making  the  same  mistake  twice." 

"The  no-account  man  doesn't  believe  in  keeping  accounts." 

"Whatever  may  lie  beyond  us, 
The  lesson  that  earth  has  to  give, 
Is  to  learn  how  to  love  divinely^ 
And  then  you  have  learned  to  live." 

— Unknown. 

"Those  who  toil  bravely  are  the  strongest ; 
The  humble  and  poor  become  great; 
And  from  those  brown-handed  children 
Shall  grow  mighty  rulers  of  State." 
— Mary  H.  Krout  in  "Little  Brown  Hands." 

'Wise  are  those  who  know  what  to  remember  and  what  to  forget." 

— Unknown. 

"Much  beer  never  brought  good  cheer." 

— Farm  Journal. 

"They  live  longest  who  remember  to  let  well  enough  alone." 

— '-Record  Herald. 

Backward,  turn  backward,  O  Time,  in  your  flight; 
Make  me  a  child  again  just  for  tonight. 


Give  me  the  cast  iron  stomach  I  had 
When  I  was  naught  but  a  freckled-face  lad. 


Feed  me  on.dainties  my  mother  could  make — 
Give  me  the  flaky,  old  time  buckwheat  cake 
Smothered  in  syrup  with  butter  spread  o'er, 
Bake  me  a  dozen  and  hurry  up  more ; 
Make  up  the  batch  of  the  doughnuts  I  knew. 
Sprinkled  with  sugar  so  bountifully,  too ; 
Caraway  cookies  and  hot  ginger  bread. 
Thickly  with  mother's  best  marmalade  spread." 

— Los  Angeles  Times. 

Selfishness  is  the  thing  that  will  turn  the  heart  into  an  ash'  heap. 

"Better  believe  yourself  a  dunce  and  work  away  than  a  genius 
and  be  idle."  — "Success"  Magazine. 


310  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

"You  should  forgive  many  things  in  others,  nothing  in  yourself." 

— Ansontits. 

"He  prayeth  best  who  loveth  best 

All  things,  both  great  and  small; 
For  the  dear  God  who  loveth  us. 
He  made  and  loveth  all." 


THE  LITTLE  ONES 

"Now  I  lay  me  down  to  sleep — 
Pray  the  Lord  my  soul  to  keep" — 
Sweet  the  chorus,  soft  and  low, 
Of  the  prayer  I  once  did  know. 
Tumbling  into  waiting  beds, 
Hiding  now  their  little  heads ; 
Older  children  have  their  fears 
With  the  darkening  of  the  years. 
Little  faces  by  the  bed, 
Little  hands  upon  the  spread, 
Little  roguish  eyes  all  closed, 
Little  naked  feet  exposed. 
Mother,  lead  them  in  their  praise; 
Mother,  teach  them  heavenly  ways ; 
Mother,  as  they  go  to  sleep, 
Pray  the  Lord  their  souls  to  keep. 

— New  York  Times. 


'If  a  man  will  only  watch  himself  as  he  would  an  enemy,  he 
would  seldom  get  into  trouble." 


THE  RECONCILIATION 

As  through  the  land  at  eve  we  went 
And  plucked  the  ripened  ears. 
We  fell  out,  my  wife  and  I — 
Oh,  we  fell  out,  I  know  not  why, 
And  kissed  again  with  tears. 

For  when  we  came  where  lies  the  child 
We  lost  in  other  years, 
There  above  the  little  grave, 
Oh ;  there  above  the  little  grave, 
W^e  kissed  again  with  tears." 

— Alfred  Tennyson. 


There  are  people  who  are  too  independent  to  earn  a  living  so 
long  as  they  can  sponge  it."  — Unknown. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  311 

Book  Mark  Motto— "Mark  ye  pure  and  goodly  thoughts." 

Motto  for  a  rose  jar— "Sweets  to  the  sweet." 

Blessed  is  the  hand  that  prepares  a  pleasure  for  a  child,  for 
there  is  no  saying  when  and  where  it  may  bloom  forth — Jerrold. 

"Work  without,  rest  is  like  bread  without  yeast ;  it  is  heavy." 

"It  is  well  to  train  the  mind  to  think  accurately  and  the  hand 
to  respond  quickly." 

"People  who  give  more  space  in  memory  to  their  failures  than 
they  do  to  their  successes  generally  go  to  early  graves,  and  are 
more  missed  than  regretted  by  their  acquaintances." — Unknown. 

"Men  who  behave  themselves  are  never  afraid  of  their  wives." 

"Oh,  mother,  so  wearied,  discouraged. 
Worn  out  with  the  cares  of  the  day — 
You  often  grow  cross  and  impatient. 
Complain  of  the  noise  and  the  play. 
For  the  day  brings  so  many  vexations, 
So  many  things  going  amiss ; 
But,  mother,  whatever  may  vex  you, 
Send  the  children  to  bed  with  a  kiss." 

Anonymous — Mother's  Magazine. 

"Adversity  is  sometimes  hard  upon  a  man;  but  for  one  man 
who  can  stand  prosperity  there  are  a  hundred  that  will  stand 
adversity." — Thomas  Carlyle. 

"Happiness  can  only  be  found  in  virtue;  virtue  cannot  exist 
'without  liberty;  and  the  seat  of  liberty  is  good  laws." 

—"Scottish  Chiefs."— 

"Blessed  are  they  which  put  their  trust  in  God." 

— "Scottish  Chiefs." — 

"What  you  can  do,  or  dream  you  can,  begin  it. 
Boldness  has  genius,  power,  and  magic  in  it." 

"Dost  thou  love  Life !  Then  do  not  squander  Time,  for  that 
is  the  stuff  life  is  made  of." 

— Benj.  Franklin,  "Poor  Richard's  Almanac." 

"Lost  time  is  never  found." — Franklin. 


312  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

"But  pleasures  are  like  poppies  spread; 
You  seize  the  flower,  its  bloom  is  shed; 
Or  like  the  snow  falls  in  the  river, 
A  moment  white,  then  melts     forever; 
Or  like  the  borealis  race, 
That  flit  ere  you  can  point  their  place ; 
Or  like  the  rainbow's  lovely  form 
Evanishing  amid  the  storm." 

— Robert  Burns. 

"All  the  world's  a  fleeting  stage 
For  man's  illusion  given. 
Deceitful  shine,  deceitful  show — 
There  is  nothing  true  but  heaven." 

— Thomas  Moore. 

"And  man,  whose  heaven  erected  face 
The  smiles  of  love  adorn, 
Man's  inhumanity  to  man 
Makes  countless  thousands  mourn." 

— Burns. 

"Do  naught  today,  thou  mayst  regret  tomorrow, 
For  though  today  may  die,  its  ghost  will  linger 
And  haunt  thee  with  a  ceaseless  sigh  of  sorrow. 
And  point  remorse  with  an  accusing  finger." 

— Unknown. 


LOOK  UP 

"Discouraged  and  weary  I  sat  me  down 

On  my  porch,  the  other  day. 
Weary  of  life  and  its  ceaseless  toil. 
Too  weary  to  sing  or  pray. 

"I  saw  not  the  beauty  of  earth  or  sky, 

But  all  seemed  a  sombre  gray ; 
'And  heaven  is  far,  far  off;'  thought  I, 
'And  the  angels — where  are  they?' 

"Why  do  my  burdens  heavier  grow? 
Why  am  I  so  oppressed? 
Where  is  the  help  I  am  needing  so? 
Where  is  the  promised  rest? 

"Ah !  doubts  were  crowding  thick  and  fast, 

My  cares  seemed  heavier  to  be ; 
And  faith  and  God,  and  all  things  else, 
Seemed  slipping  away  from  me. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  313 

"But  air  at  once  there  seemed  to  stand 

By  my  side  a  Shining  One ; 
His  raiment  was  pearly  and  flittering  white. 
And  his  face  shown  like  the  sun. 

"  'Why  art  thou  so  anxious,  weary  one, 
To  lay  the  burdens  down? 
For  only  those  who  bear  the  cross 
Shall  wear  the  victor's  crown.' 

"  'Dost  thou  not  know  that  only  those 
Who  faint  not  by  the  way. 
Shall  rest  at  last  with  Christ's  weary  ones, 
Through  one  long  endless  day?' 

"And  then  he  seemed  to  float  away. 

And  up  through  the  azure  blue, 

And  I  was  left  sitting  there  alone. 

But  life  wore  a  different  hue. 

"For  I  was  discotiraged  no  longer, 

And  heaven  seemed  nearer  to  me; 
Again  I  arose  to  life's  duties, 
Feeling  both  happy  and  free. 

"Knowing  that  if  we  are  faithful 

And  bear  what  God  gives  us  to  bear, 
We  at  last  shall  sit  down  in  his  kingdom. 
And  be  resting  with  Jesus  there." 

— Unknown. 


Sometime,  when  all  life's  lessons  have  been  learned, 

And  sun  and  stars  forevermore  have  set, — 
The  things  which  our  weak  judgments  here  have  spurned. 

The  things  o'er  which  we  wept  with  lashes  wet, — 
Will  flash  before  us  out  of  life's  dark  night, — 

As  stars  shine  most  in  deeper  tints  of  blue, 
And  we  shall  see  how  all  God's  plans  were  right, — 

And  how  what  seemed  to  be  reproof  was  love  most  true." 

— Unknown. 

"Some  women,  in  marrying,  demand  all  and  give  all;  with 
good  men  they  are  the  happy ;  with  base  men  they  are  the  broken- 
hearted. 

"Some  demand  everything  and  give  little ;  with  weak  men  they 
are  tyrants ;  with  strong  men  they  are  the  divorced. 

"Some  demand  little  and  give  all  ;with  congenial  souls  they  are 
already  in  heaven ;  with  uncongenial  they  are  soon  in  their  graves. 

"Some  give  little  and  demand  little;  they  are  the  heartless — 
and  they  bring  neither  the  joy  of  life  nor  the  peace  of  death." 

— "The  Choir  Invisible."   (?) 


814  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

"Shattered  ideals— what  hand  shatters  them  but  one's  own?" 
"Joy  comes,  grief  goes,  we  know  not  how." 

— James  Russell  Lowell. 

"Virtue  alone  is  sweet  society." 

"It  is  distrust  of  God  to  be  troubled  about  what  is  to  come; 
impatience  against  God  to  be  troubled  about  what  is  present,  and 
anger  against  God  to  be  troubled  about  what  is  past." 

"Never  a  tear  bedims  the  eye, 
That  time  and  patience  will  not  dry. 
Never  a  lip  is  curved  with  pain. 
That  cannot  be  kissed  into  smiles  again." 

— Bret  Harte. 

"The  poor,  oppressed,  honest  man, 

Had  never,  sure,  been  born 
Had  there  not  been  some  recompense 
To  comfort  those  that  mourn." 

— Burns. 

"Putting  off  an  easy  thing  makes  it  hard,  and  putting  off  a 
hard  one  makes  it  impossible." — John  Graham. 

"You  can  never  read  bad  literature  too  little  or  good  literature 
too  much.  Bad  books  are  intellectual  poison;  they  destroy  the 
mind." — Schopenhauer's  Essay  on  Books  and  Reading. 

Some    good    old    sayings: — "Honesty    is    the    best    policy." 

"Where  there's  a  will  there's  always  a  way."    "A  stitch  in  time 

saves  nine."     "  'Tis  never  too  late  to  learn."    "Better  late  than 

never."     "Courage  is  half  the  battle."     "Things  done  by  halves 

are  never  done  right." 


CHILD  OF  MY  LOVE 

"Lean  hard  and  let  me  feel  the  pressure  of  thy  care.  I  know  , 
thy  burden,  for  I  fashioned  it,  poised  it  on  My  own  hand  and 
made  its  weight  precisely  that  which  I  saw  best  for  thee.  And 
when  I  placed  it  on  thy  shrinking  form,  I  said,  'This  burden 
shall  be  Mine  notthhte.'  So  shall  I  keep  within  my  circling  arms 
— the  child  of  My  own  love.  Here  lay  it  down  nor  fear  to 
weary  Him  who  made,  upholds  and  guides  the  Universe.  Yet 
closer  come — thou  art  not  near  enough.  Thy  care,  thyself,  lay 
both  on  me  that  I  may  feel  My  child  reposing  on  My  heart. 
Thou  lovest  Me?    I  doubt  it  not;  then,  loving  Me,  lean  hard." 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  315 

"A  home  is  what  a  woman  makes  it." 

"The  sweeping  of  a  room  may  be  done  to  the  glory  of  God." 

— An  ancient  hymn  writer. 

"A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  forever." 

"There  is  no  fireside,  howsoe'er  defended  but  has  one  vacant 
chair." — Longfellow. 

"He  that  will  not  live  happily  anywhere  will   live  happily 
nowhere." — Tolstoi. 

"Little  minds  are  subdued  by  misfortune;  great  minds  rise 
above  it" — Washington  Irving. 

"Do  not  put  off  until  tomorrow  that  which  you  can  do  today." 

— Benjamin  Franklin. 

"For  of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 
The  saddest  are  these — 'It  might  have  been.' " 

—John  G.  Whittier.  "Maud  Muller." 

"Sin  has  many  tools,  but  a  lie  is  the  handle  which  fits  them 
all." — Oliver  Wendell  Holmes. 

"Live  plainly  if  you  must, 
Guard  what  is  yours  from  harm ; 

But  don't,  if  you  can  help  it, 
Put  a  mortgage  on  the  farm." 

I  think  that  every  mother's  son 

And  every  father's  daughter 
Should  drink,  at  least  till  twenty-one, 

Just  nothing  but  cold  water. 
And  after  that  they  might  drink  tea, 

But  nothing  any  stronger. 
If  all  folks  would  agree  with  me 

They'd  live  a  great  deal  longer. 

"The  nearer  you  come  into  relation  with  a  person, 
The  more  necessary  do  tact  and  courtesy  become." 

—Oliver  Wendell  Holmes, 

"We  get  back  our  mete  as  we  measure, 
We  cannot  do  wrong  and  feel  right; 

Nor  can  we  give  pain  and  get  pleasure, 
For  justice  avenges  each  slight." 

— Alice  Cary. 

"Words  give  wind  to  thoughts." 


316  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

"If  eyes  were  made  for  seeing, 

Then  beauty  is  its  own  excuse  for  being." 

— Ralph  Waldo  Emerson. 

"Behind  the  dim  unknown 
Standeth   God,    within    the    shadow 
Keeping  watch  above  his  own." 

— James  Russell  Lowell. 

"Hearts,  like  apples,  are  hard  and  sour 
Till  crushed  with  pain's  resistless  power, 
And  yield  their  juices  rich  and  bland 
To  none  but  sorrow's  heavy  ha^nd." 

— /.  G.  Holland. 

"You  can  fool  all  of  the  people  some  of  the  time,  you  can 
fool  some  of  the  people  all  of  the  time,  but  you  cannot  fool  all 
of  the  people  all  of  the  time." — Abraham  Lincoln. 

"There  is  so  much  bad  in  the  best  of  us 
And  so  much  good  in  the  worst  of  us, 
That  it  doesn't  behoove  any  of  us 
To  talk  about  the  rest  of  us." 

— Lincoln.  (?) 

"When  wealth  is  lost,  nothing  is  lost; 
When  health  is  lost,  something  is  lost; 
When  character  is  lost,  all  is  lost." 

— Wall  Motto  in  a  German  School. 

"A  straw  may  turn  the  current  of  a  mighty  river." 
"A  man  shows  his  Real  Self  in  the  way  he  treats  a  child." 

— "Health  and  Happiness." 

"He  who  by  the  plough  would  thrive 
Himself  must  either  hold  or  drive." 

"When  house  and  lands  and  gold  are  spent, 
Then  learning  is  most  excellent. 

"We  should  rather  be  wronged  than  to  do  wrong." — Pulseford. 

"Keep  working,  'tis  wiser  than  sitting  aside. 

Never,  oh,  never  say  'Fail'." 

"He  sings  to  the  wide  world  and  she  to  her  nest — 
In  the  nice  ear  of  Nature,  which  song  is  the  best?" 

— "Vision  of  Sir  Launfal." 

"He  that  is  thy  friend  indeed. 
He  will  help  thee  in  thy  need." 

— Shakespeare — "The  Passionate   Pilgrim." 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  817 

"'Tis  not  the  many  oaths  that  make  the  'truth, 
But  the  plain  single  vow,  that  is  vowed  true." 

—"All's  Well  that  Ends  Well." 

"For,  'tis  the  mind  that  makes  the  body  rich ; 
And  as  the  sun  breaketh  through  the  darkest  clouds, 
.  So  honor  peereth  in  the  meanest  habit." 

— Shakespeare — "Taming  of  the  Shrew." 

"There  is  no  time  so  miserable  but  a  man  may  be  true." 

— Shakespeare. 

"  'Tis  education  forms  the  common  mind ; 
Just  as  the  twig  is  bent  the  tree's  inclined." 

-^Pope — "Moral  Essays." 

"There  is  no  harm  in  a  boy  being  a  blacksmith  nor  in  a  girl 
knowing  how  to  make  a  loaf  of  bread." — Prof.  Monaghan. 

"Our  best  is  bad  nor  bears  the  test,  still  it  should  be  our  very 
best." — Browning. 

"O !    It  is  excellent  to  have  a  giant's  strength,  but  it  is  tyran- 
nous to  use  it  like  a  giant." — "The  Abuse  of  Authority." 

"An  idle  reason  lessens  the  weight  of  the  good  ones  you  gave 
before." — Jonathan  Swift — "Thoughts  on  Various  Subjects." 

"There  is  a  special  providence  in  the  fall  of  a  sparrow." 

— Shakespeare — "Hamlet." 

"My  heart  leaps  up  when  I  behold 
A  rainbow  in  the  sky; 
So  was  it  when  my  life  began, 
So  is  it  now  I  am  a  man; 
So  may  it  be  when  I  grow  old. 
Or  let  me  die." 

Wordsworth. 

"I  would  not  enter  on  my  list  of  friends  the  man  who  need- 
lessly sets  foot  upon  a  worm." 

— Wm.  Cowper,  "Mercy  to  Animals." 

"Full  many  a  gem  of  purest  ray  serene. 
The  dark,  unfathomed  caves  of  ocean  bear, 

Full  many  a  flower  is  born  to  blush  unseen 
And  waste  its  sweetness  on  the  desert  air." 
— Thomas  Gray,  "Elegy  Written  in  a  Country  Churchyard." 


318  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

"Let  all  the  ends  thou  aimest  at  be  thy  country's,  thy  God's 
and  truth's." 

"Love  God  and  love  thy  neighbor.  On  these  two  command^ 
ments  hang  all  the  laws  of  the  prophets." — Shakespeare. 

"What  is  failure?    It  is  only  a  spur 

To  a  man  who  receives  it  right, 
And  it  makes  the  spirit  within  him  stir 

To  get  up  once  more  and  fight! 
If  you  never  have  failed,  it's  an  even  gfuess 
You  never  have  won  a  high  success." 

— Edmund  Vance  Cooke. 

"Daily,  with  souls  that  cringe  and  plot, 
We  Sinais  climb  and  know  it  not." 

— Lowell,  "Vision  of  Sir  Launfal." 

"Every  girl  should  walk  hand  in  hand  between  two  guardian 
angels." 

"Remember  thy  last  end  and  thou  wilt  never  sin." 

— Farm  Journal. 

"Better  than  gold  is  a  peaceful  home, 
Where  all  the  fireside  characters  come — 
The  shrine  of  love,  the  heaven  of  life, 
Hallowed  by  mother,  or  sister,  or  wife, 
However  humble  the  home  may  be, 
Or  tried  with  sorrow  by  heaven's  decree. 
The  blessings  that  never  were  bought  or  sold, 
And  center  there,  are  better  than  gold." 

— "Mothers'  Magasine." 

"He  is  never  alone  who  is  accompanied  with  noble  thoughts." 
"Read  anything  half  an  hour  a  day  and  in  ten  years  you  will 
be  learned." — Emerson. 

"For  every  evil  under  the  sun  there  is  a  remedy." 

"All  things  that  are  worth  while  doing  are  not  easy." 

— Dr.  J.  N.  McCormick. 

*"It  requires  more  genius  to  be  a  good  housekeeper,  a  good 
mother  and  a  good  homemaker  than  it  does  to  manage  a  bank 
or  run  a  factory" 

"The  college  girl  as  a  housekeeper,  I  want  to  say,  judging  from 
personal  observation,  is  a  better  housekeeper  and  a  better  home- 
maker  because  she  went  to  college." 

— Catherine  Waugh  McCuUoch. 

♦Let  not  this  extract,  though  true,  discourage  the  self-educated  home- 
maker,  who  will  find  much  pleasure  in  educating  and  improving  herself  in 
her  great  life  work. 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  319 

"One  good  mother  is  worth  a  hundred  schoolmasters." 

— Herbert. 


OPPORTUNITY 
1. 

"They  do  me  wrong  who  say  I  come  no  more, 
When  once  I  knock  and  fail  to  find  you  in; 

For  every  day  I  stand  outside  your  door, 
And  bid  you  wake  and  rise  to  fight  and  win." 

— Judge  Walter  Malone. 

2. 

"Master  of  human  destinies  am  I." 

— Senator  Ingalls. 

"A  mother  is  a  mother  still, 
The  holiest  thing  alive." 

— Coleridge. 

"Live  as  if  you  live  always, 
Live  as  if  you  die  tomorrow." 

"Trouble  follers  sin  as  sho'  as  fever  follers  a  chill." 

— An  old  Negro  Prgverb. 

"Give  to  me  the  making  of  the  mothers  of  men,  and  I  care 
not  who  makes  the  laws  of  the  nation." — Napoleon. 

"In  the  hills  of  life  there  are  two  trails.  One  lies  along  the 
higher  sunlit  fields,  where  those  who  journey  see  afar,  and  the 
light  lingers  even  when  the  sun  is  down;  and  one  leads  to  the 
lower  ground,  where  those  who  travel,  as  they  go,  look  always 
over  their  shoulders  with  eyes  of  dread,  and  gloomy  shadows 
gather  long  before  the  day  is  done." 

—"The  Shepherd  of  the  Hills." 

—Harold  Bell  Wright. 

"Dear  one,  if  I  should  die  tonight. 

If  kindly  death  should  come — blow  out  the  light. 

And  say  the  game  was  done, 

And  you  should  stand 

And  touch  my  dead  cold  face  with  loving  hand 

What  would  your  heart  say  then? 

Would  you  with  tears  think  over  all  the  struggles  of  the  past 

And  realise  what  you  have  never  understood. 

How  hard  I've  toiled 

And  always  for  your  good? 

And  would  you  bend  and  kiss  my  marble  brow. 


320  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

And  whisper,  "Dear,  I  understand  things  now." 

Or  would  you  say  with  others  who  know  naught 

Of  all  the  weary  battles  I  have  fought — 

"He  was  a  failure." 

Somehow,  I  can't  think, 

That  you  who,  through  the  years,  have  seen  me  drink 

Life's  bitterness. 

That  you,  who  watched  me  quaff 

While  I  choked  back  the  sob  and  forced  the  laugh. 

Ah,  no,  you  wouldn't  say  it,  would  you  dear, 

"He  was  a  failure." 

My  dead  ear  would  hear 

And  tho'  I  could  not  speak  or  see,  _  ^ — , 

The  words  would  haunt  me  through  eternity 

Dear  one,  if  I  should  die  tonight, 

I  love  to  think  that  you,  with  tear-dimmed  sight. 

Would  kneel  beside  my  corpse  and  kneeling  there, 

Kiss  for  the  last  time  my  lips,  my  cheek,  my  hair. 

And  with  no  thought  of  failure  or  success. 

Whisper,  "Good-bye,  Good-bye,  My  Happiness," 

If  I  lay  dead  tonight. 

That  sweet  farewell 

Would  bring  me  peace — 

Aye,  tho'  I  were  in  Hell." 

"A  good-bye  kiss  is  a  little  thing, 

With  your  hand  on  the  door  to  go ; 
But  it  takes  the  venom  out  of  the  sting 
Of  a  thoughtless  word  of  a  cruel  fling 
That  you  made  an  hour  ago." 

— Frank  H.  Sweet. 

"Like  ivy,  woman's  love  will  cling 
Too  often  round  a  worthless  thing." 

"Earth's  noblest  thing — a  woman  perfected." — Senator  Ingalls. 

"How  hard  would  be  our  hearts  but  for  our  hardships  and 
sorrows." 

"Something  attempted,  something  done, 
Has  eSivned  a  night's  repose." 

— Longfellow. 

"The  great  men  who  have  accomplished  the  great  works  or 
great  good  in  the  world  have  always  been  optimkl:.  never 
pessimists." — Governor  Hoch. 

"It  takes  a  live  fish  to  swim  up  stream;  any  dead  one  can 
float  down." 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  821 

"Wealth  does  not  consist  of  what  you  have  but  what  you  are." 

— Judge  Belden. 

"Thought  is  the  force  with  which  we  build,  for  thoughts  are 
forces." — "In  Tune  with  the  Infinite." 

"Vyhatever  estimate  you  put  upon  yourself  will  determine  the 
effectiveness  of  your  work  along  any  line." 

— "In  Tune  with  the  Infinite." 

"Do  what  your  hands  find  to  do,  and  do  it  well." 

— "In  Tune  with  the  Infinite" 

There  is  no  chance,  no  destiny,  no  fate. 
Can  circumvent,  or  hinder,  or  control 
The  firm  resolve  of  a  determined  soul. 

"  'Tis  easy  enough  to  be  pleasant  ~ 

When  life  flows  by  like  a  song; 
But  the  man  worth  while 
Is  the  man  with  a  smile 
When  everything  goes  dead  wrong." 

— Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox. 

"The  possession  of  money  gives  confidence,  the  lack  of  it 
self-consciousness." — Unknown. 

The  three  great  virtues — faith,  hope  and  charity.  "And  the 
greatest  of  these  is  charity." 

"Liberty  is  God's  greatest  gift  to  man." — Pope  Leo  XIII. 

"The  sermon  which  is  lived  is  the  most  eloquent  of  all  ser- 
mons." 

"It  will  do"  has  blighted  many  a  character,  blasted  many  a 
ship,  burned  down  many  a  house  and  caused  many  a  failure  and 
defeat. 

If  wisdom's  ways  you  wisely  seek, 

Five  things  observe  with  care — 
Of  whom  you  speak,  to  whom  you  speak, 

And  how,  and  when,  and  where. 

"But  I  say  unto  you.  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that 
curse  you,  do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them 
which  despitefully  use  you  and  persecute  you." — St.  Matthew, 
chapter  5,  verse  44. 
21 


322  THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK 

EXTRACTS   FROM   "THE  CHRISTIAN 
HOUSEWIFE" 

As  for  novel  readers,  they  are  countless.  Is  that 
the  class  out  of  which  good  housewives  and  mothers 
are  made?  "I  will  pardon  your  versifying  art  if  you 
are  also  skilled  and  experienced  in  the  art  of  cookery," 
wrote  a  certain  doctor  to  a  lady  in  Augsburg,  who 
had  sent  him  a  poem.  It  is  undeniable  that  novel  read- 
ers make  themselves  and  their  famiHes  unhappy. 

Avoid  gossip  and  novel  reading. 

If  you  are  industrious  you  will  be  cheerful  and 
healthy — ^your  home  will  be  pretty  and  attractive,  com- 
fortable and  pleasant.  An  industrious  woman  lays 
up  great  merit  in  Heaven,  if  she  is  in  a  state  of  grace 
and  performs  all  her  actions  with  a  good  intention. 

Our  Lord  says,  "Take  heed  that  you  do  not  your 
good  works  before  men,  to-be  seen  by  them ;  otherwise 
you  shall  not  have  a  reward  from  your  Father,  who  is 
in  Heaven." 

A  good  table  saves  many  a  doctor's  bill. 

No  one  can  save  unless  they  spend  less  than  their 
income,  and  anyone  who  exceeds  his  income  must  come 
to  poverty.  A  calico  dress  that  is  paid  for  is  better 
than  a  silk  one  for  which  one  is  in  debt. 

He  who  is  economical  in  small  things  may  be  liberal 
in  great  things. 

An  extravagant  woman  will  ruin  the  richest  house. 

What  is  saved  by  the  woman  is  as  valuable  as  what 
is  earned  by  the  man.  If  she  hasn't  learned  the  secret 
of  economy,  she  carries  more  out  of  the  house  in  her 
apron  than  he  brings  in  in  his  cart. 

One  woman  will  use  a  great  many  ingredients,  and 
yet  supply  her  household  with  poor  fare ;  another  will 
only  need  half  of  the  quantity  and  yet  will  produce 
good,  appetizing,  and  nourishing  dishes. 

Many  women  drive  their  husbands  to  the  public 


THE  HOME-MAKING  COOK  BOOK  323 

house,  simply  and  solely  because  they  will  not  cook 
things  properly.  The  comfort  or  discomfort  of  a  family 
depends  in  great  measure  upon  the  kitchen. 

It  is  to  be  particularly  wished  that  women  should 
restore  milk,  one  of  the  most  nutritious  things,  to  its 
proper  place. 

A  certain  doctor  wrote  to  a  pri6st :  "If  you  bring  into 
honor  the  old  fashioned  dish  of  porridge  and  milk  you 
would  do  more  good  than  if  you  were  to  establish- a 
new  and  excellent  Constitution  for  the  Canton." 

"I  think  it  must  somewhere  be  written,  that  the  vir- 
tues of  mothers  shall  occasionally  be  visited  on  their 
children,  as  well  as  the  sins  of  the  fathers." — Dickens. 

Napoleon :  "What  is  wanted  that  the  youth  of  France 
be  well  educated?" 

Madam  Campan :  "Good  mothers."^ 
Napoleon :  "Here  is  a  system  in  a  word." 

"Keep  smiling." — Wall  motto  in  a  bank. 


"To  thine  own  self  be  true  and  it  needs  must  follow  as  .night 
the  day:  thou  canst  not  be  false  to  any  man." 

"Don't  send  my  boy  where  your  girl  can't  go, 
And  say,  'There's  no  danger  for  boys,  you  Icnow/ 
Because  they  all  have  their  wild  oats  to  sow ; 
There's  no  more  excuse  for  my  boy  to  be  low, 
Than  your  girl.    Then  please  don't  tell  him  so." 

Don't  send  my  boy  where  your  girl  can't  go, 
For  a  boy's  sin  or  a  girl's  sin  is  sin  you  know; 
And  my  baby's  hands  are  as  clean  and  white. 
And  his  heart  is  as  pure  as  your  girl's  tonight.  ^ 

"It  is  only  a  step  from  admiration  to  imitation." 

"By  faith  you  can  move  mountains ;  without  faith,  you  cafl  do 
nothing."         @ 

"I  expect  to  pass  through  this  world  but  once.  Any  good 
thing  that  I  can  do  or  any  kindness  I  can  show  to  any  fellow- 
being,  let  me  do  it  now.  Let  me  not  defer  or  neglect  it,  for  I 
shall  not  pass  this  way  again." 


INDEX 


Those  marked  with  a  star  can  be  used  for  convalescents. 


Page 
Apple     Jack,     see     Short 

Cake    119 

Apple  Butter   179 

^Asparagus  on  Toast 79 

♦Bacon    63 

Bacon,  Creamed    44 

Baking   Powder    291 

Baked  Apples    125 

Baked  Meats   46 

Beans,  Baked  No.  1  (Bos- 
ton)      72 

Beans,  Baked  No.  2  (Yan- 
kee)       72 

Beans,  Stewed   73 

Beans,  String  and  Wax...  75 

Beef,  to   Corn   43 

Beef,  Chipped   on   Toast.. 211 
Beef,  Corned      and      Cab- 
bage      43 

Beef,  Dried,    Creamed....  44 

Beef  Heart  Stuffed   55 

*Beef  Juice   20 

*Beef  Tea   20 

*Beef  Steak,  Broiled   39 

Beef  Steak,   Fried    40 

Beef  Steak,    Smothered   in 

Onions    40 

Beef  Steak   Stew    48 

Beef  Stew   45 

Beets 74 

Biscuits,  Baking    Powder.  .103 

Biscuits,  Soda    103 

Biscuits,  Raised    107 

*Blanc  Mange,  Irish  Moss. 211 

Bonny   Clabber   168 

Bread    105 

Bread,  No.    1 100 

Bread,  No.   2 101 


Page 

Bread,  Anise  106 

Bread,  Baking    99 

Bread,  Brown    106 

♦Bread,  Entire  Wheat 104 

Bread,  Graham    104 

Bread,  Milk   and    Water..  101 

Bread,  Steamed  Brown 104 

Bread,  Steamed  Corn 105 

*Broth,  Egg    164 

*Broth,  Scotch   22 

*Brown  Betty ...120 

Brown  Gravy     (see    Fried 

and  Baked  Meats) 85 

Buckwheat  Cakes  109 

Cake,  Apple     and     Cinna- 
mon     155 

Cake,  Brides'    148 

Cake,  Chocolate  147 

Cake,  Devil's  Food 148 

Cake,  Devil's  Food  No.  2.149 

Cake,  Johnnie    109 

Cake,  One  Egg  146 

Cake,  Rolled  Jelly   147 

Cake,  Spice   147 

Cake,  Spice   150 

Cake,  Sponge   145 

Cake,  Sunshine    148 

Cake,  Wedding    149 

Cake,  White   146 

Canning  Fruits    178 

Canned  Citron   179 

Canned  Grapes  175 

Canned  Plums    174 

Canned  String  Beans   177 

Canned  Tomatoes   176 

Canned  Watermelon ,  179 

Catsup,   Tomato    188 

*Celery  79 


324 


INDEX 


825 


Page 

Qieese,  Cottage 138 

Cheese   on  Crackers    139 

Cheese   on  Toast   139 

Cheese  and  Macaroni   79 

Cheese  Ramakins  No.  1 . . .  140 
Cheese  Ramakhis  No.  2...  140 

Cheese  Souffle  ■ 140 

Cheese  Straws    138 

Chicken,  Spring  — 61 

Chicken,  Fricassed    51 

Chili  Sauce  184 

Chowder,  Fish  30 

Cinnamon  Water    126 

*Cocoa,   Phillips    165 

Cod-fish  Balls    30 

*Cod-fish  Creamed    29 

Creamed    Fish    Soup    (see 

Cod-fish  Balls) 30 

Coffee,  Army    161 

*Coffee   for  Invalids   162 

Cookies,  Cream   No.   1 151 

Cookies,  Cream  No.   2....  151 

Corn,  Canned   177 

Corn,  Escalloped    78 

Corn,  Green   (on  Ear)  ....  78 
*Corn  Souffle   (see  Salmon 

Souffle)    29 

*Cream  Puffs  123 

Croquettes    48 

Doughnuts,   No.    1 150 

Doughnuts,    No.   2 150 

♦Dressing,  Dry   59 

Dressing,  Wet   59 

Dried  Fruits   (see  Prunes, 

also  Canning)   187 

Duck,  Mock 48 

Duck,  Roast 56 

Duck,  Wild   51 

Dumplings  59 

Egg,  Hard  Boiled 86 

*Egg,  Soft   Boiled    83 

*Egg   Cordial   165 

*Egg,  Hot  Water  165 

*Egg   Nog,   Cold    164 

*Egg   Nog,  Cooked   165 

*Egg   Nog,  Hot   165 

*Egg  Nog,  Lemon  165 

*Eggs,  Poached  82 

*Eggs,  Raw    210 


Page 

*Eggs,  Scrambled 86 

*Eggs,  Scrambled,    Army. . .  86 
Eggs,  Scrambled,  Spanish.  86 

*Eggs,  Shirred  84 

*Eggs,  Steamed 85 

Eggs,  Stuffed  (Deviled)...  87 

Eggs,  Timbales    84 

Emergencies    (Poison)    ...287 

Filling,  Caramel    154 

Fining,  Fig   154 

*Flaxseed  Tea  and  Lemon- 
ade   211 

^Floating  Island  (see  Boiled 

Custard)    121 

Flour,  Prepared 212 

Fritters      (see  Waffles)...  109 

Fruit,  Dried    187 

*Frtiit,  Drinks    168 

*Fruit   Betties    (see   Brown 

Betty)    120 

Fondamin       (see      Cheese 

Souffle)    140 

*Gruel,  Arrow  Root  .- .  167 

*Gruel,  Barley    167 

*Gruel,  Cracker   161" 

*Gruel,  Farina   167 

Gruel,  Indian   Meal   166 

*Gruel,  Oatmeal,  No.  1....166 
*Gruel,  Oatmeal,  No.  2....  166 
*Gruel,  Oatmeal,  No.  3 ."...166 

*Gruel,  Rice   167 

Ham,  Baked,  No.  1 42 

Ham,  Baked,  No.  2 42 

Ham,  Boiled  42 

Ham,  Creamed  on  Toast . .  44\ 

Ham   and  Eggs  53  ^ 

Hamburg,  Baked   44 

Hamburg   Patties   50 

*Hash   49 

*Hominy    80 

Home-Made  Baking  Pow- 
der    291 

Icing,  Boded  ".'..'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.  152 
Icing,  Boiled  .Chocolate. .  .152 

Icing,  Colored    154..^ 

Icing,  Confectioner's  Sugar  153     ' 

Icing,  Easy   154 

Icing,  Powdered  Sugar 153 

Jams    181 


826 


INDEX 


Page 

Jellies  180 

♦Jelly,  Arrow  Root  210 

♦Jelly,  Rice   210 

Jelly,  Wild  Crab  Apple...  181 

♦Junket  117 

♦Koumyse 163 

♦Lemonade    168 

♦Lemon  Whey  163 

Liver,  Fried  53 

Macaroni  and  Cheese    79 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes  ..  80 

♦Macaroni,  Creamed   80 

Mackerel,    Broiled 29 

Marmalade,  Apple 183 

Marmalade,  Grape 183 

Marmalade,  Orange  182 

Marmalade,  Peach 182 

Mayonaise 93 

♦Meat,  Creamed    44 

Meat,  Smothered    in    On- 
ions      53 

♦Milk,  Albuminized 163 

♦Milk,  Sugar  of  212 

Mince  Meat   186 

Mince  Meat,  Green  Toma- 
toes   186 

Muffins,  Blueberry    108 

♦Muffins,  Bran  108 

Muffins,  Graham  108 

Mush,  Fried  110 

Mustard  114 

♦Mutton,  Stewed  53 

New  England  Boiled  Din- 
ner     42 

Noodles 60 

♦Omelet,  for  sick 87 

Omelet,  White  and  Gold . .  85 
Onions,  Boiled   (see 

Creamed)    76 

Onions,  Baked   77 

♦Onions,  Creamed  76 

♦Onions,  Escalloped  77 

♦Onions,  Stuffed   77 

♦Orangeade  168 

♦Oysters,  Escalloped  . . 30 

'  Pancakes,  Blueberry 108 

Pancakes,  French   108 

Pancakes,  Scotch Ill 

Parsnips  78 


Page 

Peaches,  Pickled 185 

Peanut  Butter   115 

♦Pease,  Dried  74 

♦Pease,  Green   76 

Pickles    188 

Perch 28 

Pie   Crust 130 

Pie,  Apple   132 

Pie,  Chocolate    133 

Pie,  Cream 130 

Pie,  Grape   7 133 

Pie,  Pumpkin   133 

Pie,  Rhubarb    132 

Pie,  Squash 133 

Pie,  Sweet  Potato    133 

Pie,  Lemon   130 

Pie,  One  Egg  Lemon  131 

Pigs'  Feet  Souse   54 

Pigs'  Head  Cheese 54 

Pig,  Roast    52 

Pigs,  in  Blankets  (see  Es- 
calloped Oysters)    30 

Pop-Overs   107 

Pop-Overs,  New  England.  108 
Pickled  Beans  (see 
Canned,  177;  and  Pickles  188 

Pork  Chops  50 

Pork,  Fried  Salt 52 

Pork  Steak   50 

Plum  Pudding  (see  Spiced 

Pudding)    120 

Plum     Short     Cake     (see 

Canning)    175 

Potatoes,  Baked  68 

♦Potatoes,  Baked  Twice.,..  68 
Potatoes,  Boiled    (with 

Jackets)    65 

Potatoes.  Boiled,    Peeled..  65 

♦Potatoes,  Browned    71 

♦Potatoes,  Creamed   67 

♦Potatoes,  Creamed,  Raw..  67 

♦Potatoes,  Escalk)ped    68 

Potatoes,  French  Fried 70 

Potatoes,  Fried  Raw 69 

Potatoes,  Fried    70 

♦Potatoes,  Mashed,  No.  1..  66 
♦Potatoes,  Mashed,  No.  2..  66 

♦Potato  Omelet  85 

*Potato  Patties   66 


INDEX 


327 


Page 

Potatoes,  Sour   71 

*Potatoes,  Sweet   71 

*Potatoes,  Steamed    69 

Potatoes  with    Raw     Cab- 
bage    71 

Potatoes    Puff    or    Souffle 
(see  Salmon  Souffle) ...  29 

Pot  Pie  46 

Pot  Roast 41 

♦Prunes 124 

♦Prune  Whip  123 

♦Pudding,  Baked  Custard..  122 

♦Pudding,  Boiled  Custard..  121 

Pudding,  Bird's  Nest   ....  120 

♦Pudding,  Brown  Betty   ...120 

♦Pudding,  Bread   121 

♦Pudding,  Cream  Rice il8 

Pudding,  Emergency   119 

Pudding,  English 119 

Pudding,  Indian 118 

Pudding,  Prune  124 

♦Pudding,  Rice 118 

Pudding,  Spiced    120 

Pudding,  Yorkshire   HI 

Pumpkin,      Canned      and 

Dried  188 

♦Puree  of  Beans  and  Peas 
(see  Green  Peas  and 
Bean     Soup     or     Baked 

Beans)   19 

Rarebit,  Scotch    141 

Rarebit,  Welsh  139 

Raspberry  Whip   123 

Relish,  Beet 96 

♦Rennet    164 

Rice,  Spanish 81 

♦Rice  Water 210 

Roly     Poly      (see     Apple 

Dumpling)    119 

Rolls,  Parker  House  107 

Rolls,  Swedish   102 

Salad  Dressing 95 

Salad  Dressing,  Almond...  89 
Salad  Dressing,  Boiled  ...  92 
Salad  Dressing,  Boiled  for 

one  75 

Salad  Dressing,  French  ...  93 
Salad  Dressmg,       Lemon- 
ade   89 


Page 

♦Salad  Dressing,  Orange...  89 

♦Salad  Dressing,  Targon  . .  89 

Salad,  Apple  and  Celery. .  90 

Salad.  Celery  and  Egg 94 

Salad,  Celery  and  Nuts ...  94 

Salad,  Chicken    95 

Salad,  Fruit,  No.  1 89 

Salad,  Fruit,  No.  2 90 

Salad,  Oyster  95 

Salad,  Shrimp 95 

Salad,  Tomato,  No.  1 93 

Salad,  Tomato,  No.  2  ....  94 

Salad,  Tomato,  No.  3 94 

Salmon,  Canned    29 

Salmon,  Loaf 26 

Sandwiches,  Cream  Cheese  113 
Sandwiches,  Cucumber   ...113 

Sandwiches,  Dainty   116 

Sandwiches,  Fruit  114 

♦Sandwiches,  Jelly   114 

Sandwiches,  Nut  and 

Cheese  116 

Saratoga  Chips  (see  French 

Fried)    70 

Sauce,  Brandy    126 

Sauce,  Caramel    128 

Sauce,  Chocolate  127 

♦Sauce,  Cinnamon    126 

♦Sauce,  Custard    128 

Sauce,  Drawn  Butter 57 

Sauce,  Hard   128 

Sauce,  HoUandaise  58 

♦Sauce,  Lemon   127 

Sauce,  Lemon  127 

♦Sauce,  Maple    126 

Sauce,  Mint  58 

Sauce,  Tomato    58 

♦Sauce,  White    57 

♦Sauce,  Wine  127 

Sauer  Kraut  178 

Sausage  55 

Scrapple   (see  Pig's  Head 

Cheese)    54 

Shortcake,    Strawberry 1 18 

Slaw,  Cold  96 

Slaw,  Hot   96 

♦Snow-Ball,   A 121 

♦Soup,  Bean  24 

♦Soup,  Cream  of  Celery....  23 


328 


INDEX 


Page 

*Soup,  Dried   Pea 24 

*Soup,  Fruit    24 

*Soup,  Hamberg  19 

*Soup,  Oyster    24 

*Soup,  Potato   21 

*Soup,  Tomato   24 

*Soup,  Vegetable 21 

Spare     Ribs,     Roast     and 

Boiled   52 

Spinach     on     Toast     (see 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup)  22 
St  r  a  w  b  e  r  ry-a  d  e     (see 

*Orange-ade)    168 

*Stew,  Chicken     (see    Fric- 

aseed  Chicken)    51 

Stew,  Irish    45 

Succatash     (Mixed    Vege- 
table)      75 

Squash    78 

Syrup  127 


Page 

Suet  Pudding   (see  Spiced 

Pudding)    120 

*Tea  161 

*Toast    102 

*Toast,  Creamed    112 

*Toast,  Dipped 112 

Toast,  French   Ill 

*Toast,  Milk    ....112 

*Toast,  Water    211 

Trout,  Baked   27 

Trout,  Boiled    29 

Veal  Jelly  Loaf 50 

Veal  Loaf,   Steamed 49 

Veal  Stew  (see  Pot  Pie)..  46 

Waffles    ..109 

*Water,  Albuminized    163 

*Water,  Cinnamon   140 

*Whey,  Lemon  163 

Whey,  Wine  164 

*Zweibach   102 


"Give  to  the  world  the  best  you  have 
And  the  best  will  come  back  to  you." 

— Madeline  Bridges. 

Let  us  then  be  up  and  doing. 

With  a  heart  for  any  fate, 
Still  achieving,  still  pursuing. 

Learn  to  labor  and  to  wait. 

— H.  W.  Longfellow. 

"God  bless  our  homes." 


The  End. 


]\}i  28  'i^^^ 


One  copy  del.  to  Cat.  Div. 


