^^^^^^Ki* '  J^j{!Lr&f  t 

c\  n\ 

LIBRARY 

OF  THE 

University  of  California. 

Class 


/ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/cookbookfornurseOOhillrich 


A  COOK  BOOK 
FOR   NURSES 


BY  SARAH   C.  HILL 

FORMERLY 
INSTRUCTOR    IN    COOKING 
MICHAEL  REESE  HOSPITAL 
CHICAGO    ,    ,  , ,  ^ 


FOURTH  EDITION 
REVISED 


UNIVERSITY 

Of 


WHITCOMB  &  BARROWS 
BOSTON  1911 


^ 


v^^ 


^^^AHlAk 


'S 


H^hil 


Copyright  1906  and  191  i   ky 
SARAH    C.  HILL 


Thomas  Todd  Co.,  Printers 
14  Beacon  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


f 


01^ 


:i^i 


DEDICATED   TO 

MR.  ISAAC  GREENSFELDER 

IN    APPRECIATION    OF   HIS   CONSTANT   INTEREST 

IN  THE  Diet  School  of  the  Michael  Reese  Hospital 

TO   which,    for    so    MANY   YEARS,    HE   HAS    BEEN 
AN    untiring    friend 


214919 


PREFACE 

A  WORD  of  apology  seems  necessary  in  adding  another  cook  book 
to  the  many  admirable  ones  already  upon  the  market.  It  has  long 
seemed  to  the  author  that  much  might  be  done  in  condensing  recipes. 
She  has  not  been  able  to  find  a  book  which  seemed  to  bring  together 
clearly  enough  recipes  for  dishes  identical  in  method  of  cooking  and 
differing  in  only  one  or  two  ingredients. 

An  attempt  to  accomplish  this,  and  at  the  same  time  to  offer  to 
nurses  a  collection  of  recipes  in  small  enough  compass  for  their  already 
crowded  grips,  is  the  excuse  for  "  A  Cook  Book  for  Nurses." 


CONTENTS 

Chapter  I.  Fluid  Diet 

Chapter  II.  Light  Soft  Diet 

Chapter  III.  Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet 

Chapter  IV.  Special  Diets      . 

Chapter  V.  Formulae  for  Infant  Feeding 

Chapter  VI.  Notes  on  Servmg 


Pagb 

I 

15 

27 
49 
63 
67 


TABLE   OF  ABBREVIATIONS 

c.        =  cup. 
tsp.    =  teaspoon, 
tbsp.  =  tablespoon. 


MEASURES 

All  measurements  in  these  recipes  are  level. 

QUANTITIES 

I  c.  =  i  pt.  =  8  ozs.  =   1 6  tbsps.  =  48  tsps. 
The  quantities  given  are  sufficient  for  one  person. 


CHAPTER    I 

FLUID    DIET 

Fluid  Diet  includes  :  — 

1.  Milk. 
Broths. 
Beef  juice. 
Beef  tea. 

Tea.  y'^^P^^BU^ 

Coffee.  f  ,,^    ^  Tue 

Cocoa.  \^'*'VEK8,ry. 

Fruit  beverages.  ^'^iSi^itj 

Barley  and  Rice  waters. 
Toast  water. 
Albumen  drink. 

2.  Gruels. 
Milk  soups. 

MILK  PREPARATIONS 

To  Sterilize  Milk:  Utensils:  If  a  milk  sterilizer  is  not  con- 
venient, have  a  pail  with  tight-fitting  cover.  Have  a  hole  made  in 
the  cover.  Insert  in  the  hole  a  cork,  and  through  the  cork  put 
a  glass  thermometer  so  that  the  temperature  may  be  ascertained 
without  removing  the  lid.  Put  in  the  bottom  of  the  pail  an 
inverted  pie  plate.  Use  glass  bottles  with  flat  bottoms  unless  a 
rack  is  at  hand,  when  rounded  bottoms  are  practicable. 

Method:  Sterilize  the  bottles  by  boiling  20  minutes.  Fill 
them  nearly  full  of  milk.  Plug  with  sterile  absorbent  cotton. 
Set  them  on  the  plate ;  fill  the  pail  with  sufficient  cold  water  to 
come  above  the  milk.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point  (212°  F.  or 
ICX)°  C).     Boil  20  minutes.     Cool  as  quickly  as  possible  by  plung- 


2  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

ing  the  bottles  into  warm  water  for  a  few  minutes  until  bottles 
are  cooled,  then  surround  with  ice  water. 

Pasteurization:  The  utensils  and  method  for  pasteurizing 
milk  are  the  same  as  for  sterilizing,  except  that  the  water  is 
brought  to   170°  F.   or  76''  C.  instead  of  to  the  boiling  point. 

KOUMYSS 

Milk,  I  qt. 

Yeast,  -\  cake. 

Sugar,  li  tbsps. 

Have  ready  bottles  and  corks  that  have  been  thoroughly- 
cleansed  and  boiled.  If  convenient,  use  bottles  having  patent 
stoppers.  Pasteurize  the  milk,  then  reduce  temperature  to  80°  F. 
Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  \  c.  lukewarm  boiled  water.  Add  to 
the  milk  with  the  sugar.  Pour  into  the  bottles,  filling  them  to 
within  two  inches  of  the  top.  Cork  tightly  and  tie  the  corks 
down  with  strong  twine.  Shake  well.  Let  stand  in  warm  place 
6  hours,  then  put  on  ice  for  24  hours. 

Peptonized  Milk 

Milk,  I  pt. 

Boiled  water,  i  gill. 

Peptonizing  powder,  i  (pancreatin,  5  grains ;  sodium  bicarbon- 
ate, 15  grains). 

Mix  the  powder  and  water ;  put  in  clean  glass  jar  or  bottle  with 
cover ;  add  the  milk.  Adjust  cover.  Shake  well.  Set  in  water 
bath  of   115°  F.  for   10  minutes.     Put  immediately  on  ice. 

Milk  Punch 

Liquor  (whisky,  brandy,  or  rum),  i  tbsp. 

Sugar,  2  tbsps. 

Finely  chopped  ice,  2  tbsps. 

Cream  or  rich  milk,  §  c. 

Use  a  glass  jar  with  tight-fitting  cap  and  rubber  band.  Put 
liqucr,  sugar,  and  ice  in  jar.  Shake  well ;  add  the  milk  or  cream. 
Shake  hard  until  very  frothy.      Serve  in  glasses. 


Fluid  Diet 

q 

EGGNOGS 

Egg 

Sugar 

Fluid 

Flavor 

Plain.         i 

3  tbsp. 

\  c.  milk  or 
cream. 

I  tbsp.  brandy. 

Coffee.       i 

i^  tbsps. 

6  tbsps.  milk  or 
cream. 

6  tbsps.  strong  coffee. 

w.  Fruit,    i 

2  tbsps. 

\  c.  water. 

2  tbsps.  fruit  juice. 

\  c.  chopped  ice. 

Method  I :  Beat  ^^'g  well.  Add  sugar,  beat  again.  Add 
remaining  ingredients.  Serve  very  cold  in  glass.  This  is  the 
preferable  method  for  fruit  eggnogs. 

Method  II:  Beat  yolk  of  Qgg  until  thick  and  lemon-colored. 
Add  sugar,  beat  again.  Beat  white  of  Qgg  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix 
with  the  yolk  and  sugar.  Add  milk,  then  coffee  or  liquor  or  fruit 
juice.      Serve  in  glass. 

Method  III :  Beat  yolk  of  Qgg  until  thick  and  lemon-colored. 
Add  the  sugar,  beat  again.  Add  the  liquid  ingredients.  Pour 
into  glass  and  lay  on  top  the  stiffly  beaten  white. 


WHEYS 


Wine. 

Lemon. 

Rennet 


I  c. 


I  c. 


Milk  Coagulating  Agent 

I  c.  i  c.  wine. 

2  tbsps.  lemon  juice. 
I  tsp.  liquid  rennet  or  I  junket  tablet 
crushed  in  I  tbsp.  lukewarm  water. 
Warm  milk ;  when  rennet  is  to  be  used,  care  must  be  taken 
that  temperature  of  milk  does  not  go  above  105°  F.     Add  coagu- 
lating agent.      Let  stand  in  warm  place  until  a  firm  curd  is  formed. 
This  takes  about  30  minutes.     Strain  through  double  piece  of  cheese 
cloth. 


WHEY   FOR   INFANT   FEEDING 

If  whey  is  to  be  used  for  infant  feeding,  that  obtained  from 
rennet  must  be  used,  and  the  whey  must  be  heated  to  150°  F. 
before  adding  it  to  cream.  Otherwise  the  mixture  will  curdle 
when  warmed  at  feeding  time. 


4  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

BROTHS 

Meat  Cold  water 

Beef.  i  lb.,  cut  in  small  pieces.  f  qt. 

Mutton.  i   lb.,  freed  from  all  fat  and  i  qt. 

skin,    then    cut    in    small 
pieces. 

Chicken.  2  lbs.  i  qt. 

Clean,  disjoint,  remove  flesh  from  bones,  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Pound  the  bones  until  well  broken. 
Put  prepared  meat  in  saucepan,  add  the  cold  water,  bring 
slowly  to  boiling  point.  Simmer  4  hours.  Strain  into  jar  or 
earthen  bowl.  When  cool  put  in  ice  box.  When  wanted  for  use 
carefully  remove  the  fat  with  a  spoon.  If  all  cannot  be  removed 
in  this  way,  pass  soft  paper  lightly  over  the  surface  of  the  broth 
until  every  particle  of  fat  is  absorbed.  Add  salt,  using  4  tsp.  to 
every  c.  broth.  Heat  carefully,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Serve  in 
heated  bowl  or  cup.  To  vary  the  flavor,  cook  a  few  pieces  of 
celery  or  of  parsley,  or  i  tsp.  of  any  herb,  or  i  tbsp.  of  any  grain, 
or  \  tbsp.  tapioca  with  the  meat  and  water. 

Veal  and  Chicken  Jelly 

Fowl,  2  lbs. 

Veal  knuckle,  i  lb. 

Cold  water,  \\  qts. 

Prepare  chicken  as  for  chicken  broth.  Have  the  veal  knuckle 
well  cracked.  Put  them  on  together  with  the  cold  water.  Sim- 
mer until  reduced  to  i\  pts.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth, 
season  with  salt,  pour  into  small  molds.  When  cold  remove  fat, 
unmold  and  serve,  or  reheat  at  serving  time  and  serve  as  broth. 

Broth  with  Egg 

Beat  the  yolk  of  i  ^^^,  or  i  whole  ^g^^,  in  a  bowl.  Pour  on 
gradually  |  c.  hot  broth.  Serve  at  once ;  or,  after  adding  ^gg, 
cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Serve  immediately 
or  it  will  curdle. 


Fluid  Diet  5 

Oyster  or  Clam  Broth 

Oysters,  or  clams,  f  c. 

Milk  or  water,  |  c. 

Pass  fingers  gently  over  oysters  to  remove  shell.  Chop,  put 
in  saucepan  with  cold  water  or  milk.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling 
point,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth.  Salt 
to  taste. 

Clam  Broth 

Clams  in  shell,  6. 

Cold  water,  \  c. 

Scrub  shells  thoroughly.  Put  in  saucepan  with  cold  water. 
Cook  until  the  shells  open.  Strain  the  liquor  through  cheese 
cloth  folded  double.  Reheat,  taking  care  not  to  let  it  boil.  Add 
hot  cream,  i  tbsp.  if  desired.  Pour  into  heated  cup  or  bowl.  Or 
the  scalded  cream  may  be  omitted  and  a  spoonful  of  whipped 
cream  added  after  it  has  been  poured  into  cup.     Serve  hot. 

BEEF  JUICE 

Steak  cut  from  top  of  round  (i  lb.  should  yield  4  ozs.). 

Beef  juice  press,  or  fruit  press,  or  vegetable  press,  or  old- 
fashioned  lemon  squeezer,  or  large  piece  of  cheese  cloth  folded 
double  and  used  after  the  manner  of  a  stoup.  (The  fruit  press 
is  especially  recommended  where  beef  juice  is  needed  in  large 
quantities.) 

Method  I :  Cut  steak  in  small  pieces,  discarding  all  the  fat. 
Thoroughly  heat  the  press  in  hot  water,  then  drain.  Put  the 
meat  in  a  dry  pan.  Shake  over  fire  until  thoroughly  hot  but  not 
cooked.  Put  at  once  into  press.  Squeeze  out  all  the  juice 
possible.  More  juice  will  usually  be  obtained  by  heating  meat 
and  press  a  second  time. 

Method  II:  Heat  the  press  as  in  Method  I.  Trim  the  fat 
from  the  steak,  put  on  broiler  and  sear  on  both  sides.  Cut  in 
small  pieces  and  squeeze  as  in  preceding  method.  Where  much 
beef  juice  is  to  be  obtained,  Method  I  is  preferable. 


6  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

Method  III :  Prepare  meat  as  in  Method  I.  Put  in  double 
boiler  with  i  tsp.  salt.  Cover.  Have  water  in  lower  part  of 
boiler  at  a  temperature  of  130°  F.  Put  boiler  on  back  of  stove, 
and  keep  it  for  2  hours  at  such  heat  that  the  hand  can  bear  to 
rest  on  the  cover  at  any  time  during  the  process.  A  quantity  of 
juice  will  be  obtained  by  the  heat,  and  more  will  be  extracted  by 
pressure. 

BEEF  TEA 

Round  steak,  i  lb. 

Cold  water,  i  pt. 

Use  a  glass  jar  with  close-fitting  band  and  cover.  Cut  meat 
in  small  pieces,  discarding  all  the  fat.  Put  in  jar  with  the  cold 
water ;  cover  tightly.  Put  jar  on  a  trivet  in  saucepan  of  water  at 
140°  F.  Keep  at  that  temperature  for  2  hours.  Pour  off  the 
liquid.  Cool.  Remove  fat.  Season  with  salt.  Heat  to  130°  F. 
Serve  in  hot  cup. 

TEA 

Use  only  an  earthen,  china,  or  enamel  teapot.  Scald  teapot  with 
boiling  water.  Pour  off  this  water.  Put  in  pot  i  tsp.  tea.  Pour 
in  I  c.  freshly  boiling  water.  Steep  3  to  5  minutes.  Pour  through 
strainer  into  cup.  Serve  with  lump  sugar  and  cream,  or  thin  slices 
of  lemon. 

ICED  TEA 

Make  i  c.  tea.  Cool.  Pour  in  glass,  add  lemon  juice  and 
sugar  to  taste,  and   i   tbsp.  chopped  ice. 

COFFEE  I 

Ground  coffee,  2  tbsps. 
White  of  ^^g,  I  tsp. 
Boiling  water,  \  c. 
Boiled  water,  \  c. 

Mix  coffee  and  ^gg  with  i  tbsp.  cold  water  in  small  coffee  pot. 
Add  boiling  water.      Boil   3   minutes.      Stir  down  and  add   ]   c. 


Fluid  Diet  7 

water  that  has  boiled,  but  is  a  little  below  boiling  point.  Let 
stand  1 5  minutes  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil.  Strain  and 
serve  with  lump  sugar,  cream  or  hot  milk. 

Note.  —  Always  use  coffee  pot  of  a  size  proportionate  to  the  amount  of  coffee 
needed. 


COFFEE   II 

Have  two  small  Florence  (chemical  glass)  flasks,  a  glass  funnel 
to  fit  flasks,  and  filter  paper.  Fit  filter  paper  in  funnel,  put  fun- 
nel in  one  of  the  flasks.  Put  2  tbsps.  finely  ground  coffee  in 
the  filter,  pour  over  it  slowly  i  c.  boiling  water.  When  it  has  fil- 
tered through,  remove  funnel  to  other  flask  to  drip.  If  coffee  is 
wanted  stronger,  pour  through  filter  into  other  flask.  Serve  as  in 
Coffee  I. 


COCOA 

Cocoa,  2  tsps. 
Sugar,  I  tsp. 
Boiling  water,  \  c. 
Scalded  milk,  i  c. 

Mix  together  cocoa  and  sugar.  Add  the  boiling  water  slowly. 
Boil  3  minutes.  Add  the  milk.  Beat  with  Dover  ^gg  beater 
to  prevent  formation  of  skin.  Serve  at  once  with  or  without 
whipped  cream.  The  cocoa  may  be  poured  while  hot  over  a  well 
beaten  ^gg,  or  over  the  yolk  of  an  ^gg. 

FRUIT   BEVERAGES 

Gejieral  Directions:  The  water  used  in  making  fruit  beverages 
should  be  boiled,  then  cooled.  The  fruit  juices  should  be  strained. 
The  beverages  should  be  served  ice  cold.  If  purity  of  ice  supply 
is  doubted,  a  good  way  of  serving  is  to  set  the  glass  containing  the 
drink  in  a  glass  or  bowl  filled  with  chopped  ice.  Syrup  is  a  better 
sweetener  than  sugar.  It  may  be  made  in  large  quantities  and 
bottled  for  use. 


A    Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


SYRUP 


Sugar,  I  c. 
Water,  i  c. 

Put  sugar  in  saucepan,  add  water,  stir  until  dissolved.  Boil 
12  minutes;  bottle  and  cool. 

LEMONADE  AND   ORANGEADE 

Water  Flavor  Sweetening 

Plain.  I  c.  Juice  i  lemon.    2  tbsps.  syrup,  or 

2  tbsps.  sugar. 

Effervescing.     I  c.    Cold,        Juice  i  lemon,     i  tbsp.  sugar, 
but  not  iced. 

At  serving  time  put  glass  containing  lemon- 
ade on  a  plate.  Add  \  tsp.  soda  bicarbonate. 
Drink  while  effervescing. 

Egg.  See  fruit  eggnog,  page  3. 

Water  Flavor  Sweetening 

Orangeade  No.  i.       i  c.  Juice  i  orange.     2    tbsps.  syrup. 

Orangeade  No.  2.  Juice  i  orange.      \\  tbsps.  syrup. 

Put  2  tbsps.  cracked  ice  in  small  glass.  Add 
orange  juice  and  syrup.     Serve  at  once. 

Method  I :  Squeeze  fruit  juice  into  glass.  Add  syrup,  then 
water. 

Method  II  (if  no  syrup  is  at  hand)  ;  Put  sugar  in  bowl,  add 
f  c.  boiling  water.  Stir  till  sugar  is  dissolved.  Squeeze  fruit 
juice  into  glass ;  add  the  sugar  and  water.     Chill. 

A  few  thin  shavings  of  the  yellow  lemon  or  orange  rind  boiled 
with  the  water  or  the  syrup  give  a  pleasant  flavor. 

Any  other  fruit  juice  may  be  substituted  for  the  lemon  or 
orange  juice,  varying  the  amount  of  sweetening  with  the  acidity 
of  the  fruit. 


Fluid  Diet  9 

JELLY   WATER 

Jelly  (preferably  grape  or  currant),  2  tbsps. 
Boiling  water,  f  c. 

Beat  jelly  with  a  fork  until  smooth.  Add  boiling  water. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  sugar  or  syrup,  and  if  jelly  lacks  flavor 
add  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

BARLEY   OR  RICE   WATER  I 

Barley  or  Rice  flour,  i  tbsp. 

Boiling  water,  i  c. 

Salt,  i  tsp. 

Mix  flour  and  salt  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  water  in  top 
of  double  boiler.  Add  the  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Boil  5  minutes ;  put  over  boiling  water  and  cook  1 5  minutes 
longer,  stirring  frequently.  Strain.  If  desired,  it  may  be  flavored 
with  a  little  lemon  juice  or  a  few  raisins,  or  a  small  piece  of 
cinnamon  may  be  boiled  with  it.  These  should  be  omitted  if 
the  water  is  to  be  used  for  patients  suffering  from  intestinal 
disturbances. 

BARLEY   OR  RICE  WATER  II 

Barley,  2  tbsps. :  or  rice,  3  tbsps. 

Boiling  water,  i  qt. 

Salt,  I  tsp. 

Have  the  water  boiling  in  a  saucepan,  wash  the  grain,  add 
to  the  water.  Boil  the  rice  water  30  minutes;  the  barley  water 
I  hour.      Strain.     Serve  as  in  I. 

TOAST  WATER 

Toast,  2  slices  well  browned  and  very  dry. 

Boiling  water,  i  c. 

Break  the  toast  in  small  pieces  in  a  bowl,  add  the  boiling 
water.  Let  stand  i  hour.  Strain.  Season  with  salt.  If  desired, 
add  I  or  2  tbsps.  cream. 


lO  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

ALBUMEN  DRINK 

White  of  egg  Liqiiid 

Plain.  i  Water,  i  c. 

Milk.  i  Milk,  \  c. 

Fruit.  i  Juice  of  i  lemon  or  i  orange. 

Put  white  of  ^g'g  and  the  chosen  liquid  in  clean  glass  jar  with 
tight -fitting  cap  and  rubber  band.  Shake  hard  until  well  mixed. 
Strain  into  glass. 

Note  i.  —  When  fruit  juice  is  used,  sweeten  to  taste. 

Note  2.  —  The  albumen  water  maybe  flavored  with  lemon  juice  and  slightly 
sweetened. 

FLAXSEED   TEA 

Flaxseed,  2  tbsps. 
Boiling  water,  2  c. 
Lemon  juice,  2  tbsps. 
Sugar  to  taste. 

Wash  the  flaxseed.  Add  to  the  boiling  water.  Simmer  i  hour. 
Strain.     Add  lemon  juice  and  sugar.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

IRISH   MOSS   LEMONADE 

Irish  moss,  \  c. 

Cold  water,  i  pt. 

Juice  I  lemon. 

Soak  moss  15  minutes  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it. 
Remove  moss,  add  the  pint  of  cold  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
20  minutes.  Strain.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  lemon  juice.  Serve 
hot. 

MULLED   WINE 

Boiling  water,  ^  c. 
Stick  cinnamon,  \  inch. 
Whole  cloves,  2. 
Sherry  wine,  1  c. 

Egg,  I. 

Sugar,  i^  tbsps. 


Fluid  Diet  1 1 

Boil  water,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  5  minutes.  While  boiling 
beat  the  ^^g  and  sugar  well  together  in  a  small  bowl.  To  the 
spiced  water  add  the  wine.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Pour 
slowly  over  the  ^gg  and  sugar,  beating  all  the  while.     Serve  hot. 

GRUELS 


Flour 

Salt 

Boiling  water 

MUk  (scalded) 

Barley  flour,  i  tbsp. 

itsp. 

4  c. 

4c. 

Rice  flour,  i  tbsp. 

I  tsp. 

ic 

4  c. 

Farina,  i  tbsp. 

\  tsp. 

4  c. 

4  c. 

Oat  flour,  I  tbsp. 

itsp. 

4  c. 

ic. 

Cracker  crumbs,  2  tbsps. 

•h/r    .1        1      T         T         ^ .r       i_ 

\  tsp. 

1  1  _     1    -  -1  _ 

4  c. 

•         ..1           n 

4  c. 

Method  I :  In  top  of  double  boiler  mix  the  flour  with  cold 
water  enough  to  form  a  paste.  Add  the  boiling  water.  Boil  2  or 
3  minutes,  then  set  over  lower  part  of  double  boiler  to  cook  for 
15  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Add  the  salt  and  scalded  milk, 
and  serve  in  a  hot  cup  or  bowl.  The  cracker  gruel  does  not  need 
to  be  mixed  with  the  cold  water  nor  cooked  over  hot  water,  but  is 
sufficiently  cooked  by  the  2  or  3  minutes'  boiling. 

Method  II :  Prepare  any  cereal  by  directions  given  on  page  16, 
using  half  the  quantity  of  dry  cereal.  When  cooked  and  while 
hot  rub  through  a  strainer,  and  add  i  c.  hot  milk  or  cream. 

Variations :  Any  one  of  these  gruels  may  be  varied  as  follows  : 

(i)  Scald  6  raisins  with  the  milk. 

(2)  Add  a  small  quantity  of  lemon  juice  and  sugar  at  serving 
time. 

(3)  Grate  nutmeg  over  top  at  serving  time. 

(4)  Break  an  ^gg  into  the  serving  bowl,  using  the  whole  ^gg 
or  only  the  white  or  yolk  as  desired ;  beat  well,  pour  into  it  the 
hot  gruel. 

(5)  Scald  raisins  with  milk,  add  gruel  to  ^gg  as  in  (4),  add  a 
grating  of  lemon  rind  and  of  nutmeg,  and  i  tbsp.  each  sugar  and 
sherry.     This  variation  makes  CAUDLE. 

(6)  Cracker  gruel  may  be  varied  by  toasting  the  crackers 
well  before  rolling.      Graham  crackers  make  an  excellent  gruel. 


1 2  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

OATMEAL  GRUEL 

Oatmeal,  \  c. 

Cold  water,  i  pt. 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Roll  and  pound  the  oatmeal  on  a  board  with  a  rolling  pin. 
When  floury  put  in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  it  \  pt.  water.  Let  it 
settle.  When  the  water  looks  milky  strain  it  into  a  saucepan. 
Repeat  until  the  pint  of  water  has  been  used.  Boil  the  oatmeal 
water  30  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Season  with  salt  to  taste, 
and,  if  necessary,  dilute  with  hot  cream  or  milk  to  desired 
consistency. 

MILK  SOUPS 

The  following  white  sauce  is  the  foundation  of  milk  soups :  — 

WHITE  SAUCE 

Butter,  flour,  milk.  (The  amount  of  each  varies  with  the  kind 
of  soup,  and  is  given  in  the  table.) 

Method  I :  Melt  the  butter.  When  bubbling  add  the  flour  and 
cook  them  together,  stirring  all  the  time  until  they  are  smooth 
and  thick.  Add  the  milk  1  at  a  time,  stirring  after  adding  each 
portion  until  the  sauce  has  thickened.  Add  the  special  ingredient 
and  seasoning. 

Method  II :  Scald  the  milk.  Mix  the  flour  with  cold  -  milk 
sufficient  to  form  a  smooth  paste.  Add  hot  milk  slowly,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  20  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  it  thickens,  after  that  occasionally.  Add  the 
special  ingredient  and  seasonings,  and,  when  ready  to  serve,  the 
butter  broken  in  small  pieces. 

White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

I.  Cream  of  Butter,  i  tbsp.     Canned    asparagus,    8     stalks. 

Asparagus.    Flour,  i  tbsp.      Drain  from   liquor.     Add  \  c. 

Milk,  i  c.  fresh  water.      Heat  thoroughly, 

straining  out  all  the  juice.     Add 

to  white  sauce. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Fluid  Diet 


13 


2.  Cream  or 
Celery. 


2a,  p.  14. 

3.  Cream  of 
Chicken. 


White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

Butter,  I  tbsp.  3  sticks  celery,  washed,  cut  in 
Flour,  f  tbsp.  small  pieces  and  cooked  with 
Milk,  I  c.  the  milk  for  the  white  sauce  20 

minutes  in  double  boiler. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

Butter,  I  tbsp.  \  c.  strong  chicken  broth.  Re- 
Flour,  I  tbsp.  move  carefully  every  particle 
Milk,  i  c.  of  fat.     Heat  before  adding  to 

sauce. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


4.  Cream  of 
Clam. 


5.  Cream  of 
Corn. 


Special  ingredient 

\  c.  clam  broth. 


White  sauce 

Butter,  I  tbsp. 
Flour,  I  tbsp. 
Milk,  \  c. 

Pepper  to  taste. 

White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

Butter,  I  tbsp.  \  c.  canned  corn,  chopped, 
Flour,  I  tbsp.  heated  20  minutes  in  \  c.  water. 
Milk,  \  c.  Strain.     Press  out  all  the  juice 

possible.     Add  to  sauce. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

6.  Cream  of         Butter,  |  tbsp.     \  c.    canned   peas  drained,  re- 
Green  Peas.  Flour,  \  tbsp.      heated  in  \  c.  cold  water  and 
Milk,  i  c.  rubbed  through  sieve. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     A  sprig  of  mint 
may  be  cooked  with  peas. 


White  sauce 

7.  Cream  of  Butter,  \  tbsp. 

Onion.  Flour,  I  tbsp. 

Milk,  I  c. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Special  ingredient 

I  onion  cut  up  and  scalded  with 
milk  for  white  sauce. 


14 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


"White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

8.  Cream  of         Butter,  i  tbsp.     Hot    riced    potato,    i  c.      Boil 

Potato.         Flour,  \  tbsp.      potato,  put  through  ricer,  add 
Milk,  I  c.  the  white  sauce  slowly. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  At  serving  time 
add  i  tsp.  tomato  catsup  or  i  tsp.  chopped  pars- 
ley, i  slice  onion  may  be  scalded  with  milk,  then 
strained  out. 

White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

9.  Cream  of         Butter,  i  tbsp.     \  c.  stewed  and  strained  tomato. 

Tomato.  Flour,  i  tbsp.       Add  Jg    tsp.    soda  bicarbonate 

Milk,  i  c.  before   adding  to  white   sauce. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Small  piece  bay 

leaf,  I  clove,  small  piece  onion  may  be  cooked 

with  tomato. 

White  sauce  Special  ingredient 

2a.   Cream  of        Butter,  i  tbsp.     3  sticks  celery,  washed  and  cut 

Celery.        Flour,  i  tbsp.       in  small  pieces.     Cook  20  min- 

Milk,  i  c.  utes    in    \\    c.    water.     Drain, 

pressing    out     all     the    water. 

Use  i  c.  of  this  water. 


Note.  —  Cream  or  chicken  broth  may  be  substituted  for  all  or  part  of  the  milk 
in  any  of  the  above  recipes. 


Additiofial  Recii>es 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


CHAPTER    II 

LIGHT    SOFT    DIET 

Light  Soft  Diet  comprises  everything  included  in  Fluid  Diet  i 
and  2. 

Broths  and  soup  with  grains. 

Eggs,  poached  and  boiled. 

Cereals. 

Toasts. 

Custards. 

Farinaceous  puddings. 

Jellies. 

Junkets. 

Ice  cream. 

Ices. 

BROTH  WITH  GRAINS 

Broth,  I  i  c. 

Rice,  barley,  or  tapioca,  li  tsps. 

If  barley  or  tapioca  be  used  soak  2  hours  in  cold  water.  Add 
to  broth  from  which  fat  has  been  removed,  boil  5  minutes,  cook 
in  double  boiler   li  hours.     Season  with  salt. 

EGGS 

General  Principle :  As  albumin  coagulates  at  160°  F.,  and  as 
it  toughens  when  boiled,  eggs  should  be  cooked  below  the  boiling 
point  to  insure  a  tender  consistency. 

Boiled  Egg 

Method  I :  Put  I  pt.  of  water  in  a  saucepan.  When  it  boils 
remove  saucepan  to  side  of  range,  put  in  i  washed  ^^g,  and  let 
it  stand  from  5  to  10  minutes,  according  to  consistency  desired. 
Serve  in  heated  ^gg  cup. 

15 


1 6  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

Method  II :  Wash  i  ^%g  and  put  in  saucepan  with  i  pt.  of  cold 
water.  Bring  just  to  boiling  point.  Remove  from  water,  and 
serve  in  heated  ^gg  cup. 


Poached  Egg 

Toast. 

Parsley. 

Salt. 

Have  a  shallow  pan  full  of  boiling  water.  Break  into  it  i  ^gg. 
Remove  pan  to  place  on  range  where  water  will  not  boil,  and  let 
it  stand  until  the  white  is  coagulated  and  a  thin  film  is  formed 
over  the  yolk.  Lay  a  neatly  trimmed  piece  of  toast  on  a  skim- 
mer, dip  it  in  the  hot  water  to  soften  it,  place  in  center  of' hot 
plate,  remove  ^gg  carefully  with  skimmer,  place  on  the  toast. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

CEREALS 

Dry  cereal  Salt 

Oatmeal,  i  c.  \  tsp. 

Rolled  oats,  ^  c.  \  tsp. 

Hominy,  i  c.  \  tsp. 

Corn  meal,  J  c.  \  tsp. 

Farina,  3  tbsps.  \  tsp. 

The  farina  may  be  mixed  to  a  paste  with 

cold  water,  and  the  boiling  water  added  to  it. 

Patent  preparations  are  prepared  according  to  directions  on 
package.  They  are  usually  improved  b/  doubling  the  given  time 
of  cooking. 

General  Metho-d :  To  boiling  water  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add 
salt,  then  dry  cereal  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while.  Boil  5  mmutes, 
then  put  over  lower  part  of  boiler.  Steam  remainder  of  time  given 
in  table. 


Boiling  w 

ater 

Time 

I   C. 

3  hrs. 

I   C. 

I  hr. 

I  c. 

2  hrs. 

I  c. 

2  hrs. 

I  c. 

ihr. 

Light  Soft  Diet  17 


BOILED   RICE 


Rice,  3  tbsps. 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Boiling  water,  2^  c. 

Wash  rice.  Add  salt  to  rapidly  boiling  water ;  add  rice.  Boil 
uncovered  from  20  to  30  minutes,  until  rice  is  perfectly  soft,  stir- 
ring frequently  with  fork  to  prevent  rice  sticking  to  saucepan. 

STEAMED   RICE 

Rice,  3  tbsps. 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Boiling  water,  i  c. 

Wash  rice.  Add  salt  to  rapidly  boiling  water  in  top  of  double 
boiler.  Add  rice,  boil  5  minutes.  Put  over  lower  part  of  boiler, 
cook  45  minutes,  when  water  should  be  all  absorbed. 

Note.  —  The  rice  may  be 'boiled  in  \  c.  boiling  water,  \  c.  hot  milk  to  be  added 
when  it  is  put  over  hot  water. 

TOASTS 

Dry 

Cut  bread  in  slices  \  inch  thick,  cut  off  the  crusts.  Place  in 
toaster,  dry  thoroughly  on  each  side  by  holding  at  some  distance 
from  the  fire,  then  hold  closer  to  flame,  and  let  it  brown  deli- 
cately and  evenly  on  each  side.  Place  on  hot  plate.  Serve  at 
once. 

Buttered 

Make  dry  toast.  Butter  as  soon  as  brown,  place  on  hot  plate, 
cover,  and  serve  at  once. 

Milk 

Milk,  I  c. 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Dry  toast,  2  slices. 

Scald  milk,  add  salt.  While  it  is  scalding  make  toast  (butter 
toast,  if  desired),  cut  in  strips,  arrange  them  log-cabin-wise  in  hot 


i8 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


TOASTS  —  Continued 

bowl,  pour  over  them  the  milk.     Serve  at  once.     Cream  may  be 
substituted  for  the  milk. 

Water 

Make  toast,  2  slices.  With  skimmer  or  fork  dip  them  quickly 
in  shallow  pan  of  boiling  salted  water.  Butter,  and  serve  at 
once  on  hot  plate,  covered. 

Creamed 

Make  dry  toast,  2  slices.  Make  i  c.  white  sauce  (page  12), 
using  butter  and  flour,  each  i^  tbsp.  to  milk  i  c.  Season  with 
salt.  Dip  each  piece  of  toast  quickly  in  boiling  water,  place  on 
hot  plate.     Pour  sauce  over  them.     Serve  at  once. 

This  may  be  varied  by  substituting  chicken  broth  for  one-half 
the  milk,  or  by  using  i  c.  tomato  neutralized  with  soda  {^^  tsp.)  in 
place  of  one-half  the  milk. 


SOFT  CUSTARDS 

Milk 


Plain. 


Chocolate. 


Cocoa. 


Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

f  c.       I  yolk.       I  tbsp.  o-  tsp.  vanilla,  or  i  tsp. 

wine,  or  a  peach  leaf 
scalded  with  milk,  or 
\  inch  piece  vanilla 
bean  scalded  with  milk. 

Milk  Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

i  c.  I  yolk.  2  tbsps.  i  tbsp.  scraped  choco- 
late. 
Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  to  it  a 
small  quantity  of  the  scalded  milk.  Stir  until  per- 
fectly smooth,  then  add  sufficient  of  the  milk  to 
make  of  consistency  to  pour.  Add  to  remainder 
of  milk.     Add  to  Qgg,  and  finish  as  directed. 

Milk  Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

§  c.       I  yolk.      4  tsps.  2  tsps.  cocoa. 

Add  sugar  to  cocoa.  Add  i  tbsp.  boiling  water. 
Boil  I  minute.  Add  the  scalded  milk.  Proceed  as 
for  plain  custard. 


Light  Soft  Diet 


19 


MUk  Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

Coffee.  .  §  c.       i  yolk.       li  tbsps.      \  tbsp.  ground  coffee. 

Scald  coffee  with  milk.     Strain  through  cheese 
clotlj,  add  to  ^gg.     Finish  as  directed  below. 

General  Method:  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  ;  while  it 
is  scalding  beat  the  ^gg  slightly.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  ^%g, 
mix.  Add  the  scalded  milk  slowly  to  the  ^gg,,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook,  stirring  all  the  time 
until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  fire  at  once,  cool  quickly  by 
placing  upper  part  of  double  boiler  in  cold  water.  When  cool, 
add  salt  and  flavoring,  if  the  latter  is  an  extract.  If  not,  follow 
directions  under  special  recipe.     Serve  in  punch  glass. 

Note.  —  If  custard  should  curdle,  the  result  of  over  cooking,  add  to  it  at  once 
I  tbsp.  cold  milk,  and  pour  with  force  into  pitcher,  then  back  again  into  boiler,  then 
into  pitcher,  repeating  until  custard  is  smooth. 

MERINGUES  FOR  GARNISHING   CUSTARDS 

1.  Beat  white  of  ^gg  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  i  tbsp.  powdered 
sugar.  Place  on  tin  wet  with  cold  water,  place  in  moderately  hot 
oven  until  lightly  browned  and  firm  to  the  touch. 

2.  Beat  2  tbsps.  currant  or  grape  jelly  until  soft.  Beat  the 
white  of  one  ^gg  stiff.  Add  the  jelly  and  beat  together  until 
thoroughly  mixed. 


BAKED  CUSTARDS 

Milk 

Plain. 


Cocoa. 


Egg  Sugar 

i  c.      I  yolk  or  from  \      i  tbsp. 
to  I  whole  ^gg. 


Chocolate.       \  c.      i  yolk. 


li  tbsps. 


Flavor 

\    tsp.    vanilla 
or    grating   of 
nutmeg. 
I  tbsp.  scraped 
chocolate. 
Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water.     Dilute  with 

scalded  milk  until  of  consistency  to  pour.     Add  to 

t,gg.     Finish  as  directed. 

Milk  Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

i  c.     i  to  I  ^gg.  I  tsp.  2   tsps.    cocoa. 

Mix  cocoa  with  the  sugar.     Add  2  tsps.  cold 


20 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


water ;  mix  to  a  paste.  Add  i  tbsp.  boiling  water. 
Boil  I  minute,  add  the  hot  milk,  and  proceed  as 
directed. 

Milk  Egg  Sugar^  Flavor 

Coffee.  •  i  c.      i  yolk,  or  i   to     li  tsps.        i  tbsp.  ground 

I  whole  ^gg.  coffee. 

Scald  coffee  lo  minutes  in  the  milk.  Strain 
through  cheese  cloth.  Add  to  ^gg,  and  finish  as 
directed. 

Milk  Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

Renversee.       i  c.  I  I  tsp.  lo    drops    va- 

nilla, 2  tsps. 
sugar. 
Stir  the  2  tsps.  sugar  over  fire  until  melted 
and  brown.  Pour  into  baking  dish,  then  pour  in 
the  custard  mixture  made  from  the  remaining  in- 
gredients. Unmold  at  serving  time ;  the  caramel 
will  form  a  coating  and  sauce. 

General  Method:  Scald  the  milk.  While  scalding  beat  the 
^gg.  Add  to  it  the  sugar.  Mix  well.  Add  the  scalded  milk 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  while.  Pour  into  baking  dish,  put  it  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until  custard  is  firm.  Test  by  insert- 
ing point  of  knife  in  center.     If  clean,  custard  is  done. 


VACEOUS   PUDDING 

Farinaceous  material      Milk 

Kgg 

Sugar 

Flavor 

^\           I  tbsp.  corn-          \  c. 

\  the 

\  tbsp. 

Few  drops  va- 

starch, or     (scalded). 

white 

nilla,  or  I  tsp. 

\\    tbsps. 

of    I 

brandy,   or    a 

farina,  or  2 

^hi' 

few  thin  shav- 

tsps. arrow- 

ings of  lemon 

root. 

rind     cooked 
with  milk  and 
then  strained. 

Note. —  This  amount  of  arrowroot  will  not  make  of  sufficient  stiffness  to  mold, 
but  the  arrowroot  is  more  delicate  unmolded. 


Light  Soft  Diet 


21 


Farinaceous  material      Milk  Egg  Sugar  Flavor 

Chocolate.        Same  as  i  c      i  the       i  tbsp.     f  square 

for  plain.  white  chocolate 

of  I  egg.  melted. 

Method :  Mix  farinaceous  material,  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of 
salt  together.  Add  enough  cold  water  to  form  a  smooth,  thick 
paste.  Add  to  this  the  scalded  milk.  Return  to  double  boiler 
and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  lo  minutes 
longer,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat  the  egg  white  to  a  stiff  froth ; 
add  the  hot,  thickened  milk  gradually,  beating  all  the  while.  Pour 
into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Chill.  Unmold  and  serve 
with  soft  custard  made  from  yolk  of  egg. 

Variations:  (i)  After  the  pudding  has  cooked  lo  minutes, 
pour  it  over  the  yolk  of  the  egg  beaten  slightly.  Put  in  oven  for 
lo  minutes.  Beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  i  tbsp.  sugar, 
spread  it  over  the  pudding,  and  return  to  oven  to  brown  the 
meringue  slightly.     Serve  cold. 

(2)  Before  molding  the  pudding,  garnish  bottom  of  mold  with 
a  candied  cherry,  or  serve  with  fruit  sauce  (page  22) ;  or  when  un- 
molded  make  a  small  hollow  in  top  of  pudding,  in  which  put  i  tsp. 
currant  or  grape  jelly. 


TAPIOCA 

L   PUDDINGS 

Tapioca 

Fluid 

Sugar 

Egg 

Flavor 

Cream. 

2  tbsps.  minute 

ic 

I  tbsp. 

\ 

A  few  thin  shav- 

or I  tbsp.  pearl. 

milk. 

ings  of  1  e  m  0  n 
rind  scalded  with 
the  milk,  or  i 
tsp.  vanilla. 

Baked. 

I    tbsp.  minute 

ic 

I  tbsp. 

\ 

A  few  thin  shav- 

or  pearl. 

milk. 

yolk 

.  ings  of  lemon 
rind  scalded  with 
the  milk,  or  \ 
tsp.  vanilla. 

Coffee. 

2  tbsps.  minute 

ic 

2  tbsps. 

\  the 

or  I  tbsp.  pearl. 

strong 
coffee. 

white 
of  I  egg. 

22  A    Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

Fruit. 


Tapioca 

Fluid 

Sugar 

Flavor 

2  tbsps.  pearl 

I  c. 

To  taste. 

I   apple   or   i 

or 

boiling 

peach  or  ?  c. 

3  tbsps.  minute. 

water. 

berries. 

The  apple  may  be  pared  and  cored,  or  may  be  cut  in 
eighths.     Peaches  peeled  and  cut  in  halves  or  eighths. 

If  pearl  tapioca  is  used,  soak  i  hour  or  longer  in  cold  water. 
If  minute  tapioca  is  used,  no  soaking  is  required.  Put  tapioca  in 
liquid  in  double  boiler.  Cook  until  transparent.  (The  time  will  be 
shorter  in  using  minute  tapioca  than  with  pearl  tapioca.)  Add  the 
^ZZ  yolk>  and  unless  to  be  baked  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  slightly  thickened.  Add  white  beaten  stiff;  put  in  mold. 
When  cold  unmold,  and  serve  with  cream  or  fruit  sauce.  If  to  be 
baked,  add  the  cooked  tapioca  to  the  ^gg  or  to  the  fruit.  Put  in 
oven  and  cook  until  ^gg  is  set  or  fruit  is  soft.  Where  ^gg  rs 
used,  bake  in  pan  of  hot  water,  as  baked  custard.  These  propor- 
tions give  a  pudding  that  will  unmold  when  cold.  If  a  creamy 
consistency  is  desired,  use  ^  the  quantity  of  tapioca. 

FRUIT   SAUCE 

Fruit  juice  (of  stewed  or  raw  fruit),  3  tbsps. 

Arrowroot,  \  tsp. 

Cold  water,  i  tsp. 

Mix  arrowroot  to  smooth  paste  with  the  cold  water.  Bring 
fruit  juice  to  boiling  point.  Add  it  to  the  arrowroot  slowly. 
Return  to  fire.     Boil  2  minutes. 

JELLIES 

The  basis  for  all  the  following  jellies  is  :  — 

I  tsp.  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in  i  tbsp.  cold  water. 

Hot  liquid  Sugar  Flavor 

Lemon.         6i  tbsps.  boiling  3  tbsps.        i^  tbsps.  lemon  juice. 

water. 

Orange.       4  tbsps.  boiling  2^  tbsps.     3 1  tbsps.  orange  juice. 

water.  -i  tbsp.  lemon  juice. 


Light  Soft  Diet 


23 


Sugar 

2^  tbsps. 
I  tbsp. 
2\  tbsps. 
I  tbsp. 
I  tbsp. 


\\  tbsps. 


Flavor 

3  tbsps.  wine, 
i  tbsp.  lemon  juice. 

4  tbsps.  strong  coffee. 

4    tbsps.    grape    fruit 

juice. 

6  tbsps.  cold  cream. 

i  tsp.  vanilla. 

White  of  I  ^gg  beaten 

stiff.     I  tsp.    sherry; 

few  drops  vanilla. 

White    I  ^gg   beaten 

stiff. 


Hot  liquid 

Wine.  5  tbsps.  boiling 

water. 
Coffee.       4  tbsps.  boiling 

water. 
Grape  4  tbsps.  boiling 

Fruit,      water. 
Ivory  3  tbsps.  scalded 

Cream,     milk. 
Spanish       Custard  made  of  \ 

Cream,     c.  milk  and  yolk  i 

Coffee  Custard  made  of  \ 
Cream,  c.  milk  with  which 
I  tbsp.  ground 
coffee  has  been 
scalded  and  then 
strained,  and  yolk 
of  I   ^gg. 

Method:  Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  2 
liquid,  stir  until  gelatin  is  entirely  dissolved, 
(except  Spanish  and  coffee  creams)  into  mold  wet  with  cold  water. 
Set  in  cold  place  to  harden.  When  jellied,  unmold  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

To  Serve:  Orange  jelly  is  attractive  served  in  basket  made 
by  cutting  a  section  of  orange  from  either  side  stem  end,  so  as  to 
form  a  handle.  Scoop  out  carefully  all  the  orange  pulp  and  juice, 
taking  care  not  to  break  through  skin.  Strain  through  cheese 
cloth ;  use  the  juice  in  making  the  jelly.  When  hard,  cut  in  cubes 
and  fill  the  basket. 

Or,  cut  small  slice  from  top  of  orange  with  teaspoon.  Remove 
carefully  all  the  pulp  and  juice,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
skin.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth ;  use  the  juice  in  making  an 
orange  jelly.  Strain  into  orange  skin.  When  hard,  cut  in  quarters 
and  arrange  on  plate,  garnishing  with  green  leaves  or  whipped 
cream. 


minutes,    add   hot 
Add  flavor,  strain 


24 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Or,  pour  orange  jelly  into  mold  lined  with  sections  of  orange 
pulp.  Wine  or  lemon  jelly  may  be  poured  into  small  glasses  to 
harden,  reserving  k  of  quantity  and  filling  glasses  f  full.  When 
jelly  in  glass  has  hardened,  beat  the  reserved  i  to  a  froth  and 
put  on  top  to  resemble  a  glass  of  beer. 

To  Decorate  Jellies :  Pour  into  mold  just  enough  liquid  jelly 
to  cover  the  bottom.  Let  this  harden.  Place  on  it,  in  any  design 
fancied,  small  pieces  of  orange,  or  candied  cherry  and  angeUca, 
or  Creme  de  Menthe  cherry,  or  pieces  of  strawberry  or  other 
fresh  fruit.  Add  a  few  drops  of  liquid  jelly,  taking  care  not  to 
use  enough  to  float  the  decorations.  Let  this  harden,  then  fill 
the  mold  with  liquid  jelly.  Let  stand  in  cold  place  to  harden. 
Serve. 

Variations :  — 

Italian        Beat  orange,  lemon,  or  wine  jelly  until  frothy.      Mold 
Cream,     and  serve. 

Sponges.  Make  a  wine,  coffee,  or  fruit  jelly,  slightly  increasing 
the  amount  of  sugar.  When  set,  beat  with  ^gg  beater 
until  frothy.  Beat  white  of  i  ^gg  until  stiff  enough 
to  drop.  Mold,  chill,  and  serve  with  custard  made 
from  yolk  of  the  ^gg. 


JUNKET 


Plain. 


Milk 


Coffee.     7  tbsps. 


Rennet 

\  tsp.  liquid  rennet 
or  \  junket  tablet. 

2  tsp.  liquid  rennet 
or  \  junket  tablet. 


Sugar 
i  tbsp. 


I  tbsp. 


Flavor 

Nutmeg    or 
I   tsp.  brandy. 


I   tbsp. 
coffee. 


>trong 


Heat  milk  to  100°  F.  Add  sugar  and  flavoring.  Add  the 
rennet ;  stir  just  enough  to  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  at  once  into 
serving  dish,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place,  in  front  of  range, 
for  example,  until  jelUed.  Put  at  once  on  ice.  Serve  cold.  Where 
nutmeg  is  used,  it  may  be  grated  over  the  junket  at  serving  time. 


Light  Soft  Diet 


25 


ICE  CREAM 

Cream  Sugar  Flavor 

Vanilla.        '\  c.  i\  tbsps.  i  tsp.  vanilla,  or  \  tsp.  va- 

nilla and  f  tsp.  sherry. 

Chocolate,     i  c.  2  tbsps.  2  tbsps.  grated  chocolate. 

Melt.  Add  the  cream 
gradually. 

Method  I :  To  cream  add  sugar  and  vanilla.     Freeze. 

Method  II :  Scald  'k  the  cream,  add  the  sugar,  stir  until  dis- 
solved. Whip  the  remaining  cream  until  frothy.  Add  the  scalded 
cream  (cooled)  and  freeze. 

Method  III :  Whip  the  cream,  add  sugar  and  flavorings. 
Freeze. 

Method  IV:  Custard.  Make  custard  with  \  c.  milk,  \  the 
yolk  of  I  ^ggy  and  \\  tbsps.  sugar.  When  cool,  add  \  c.  cream, 
plain  or  whipped,  and   i   tsp.  vanilla.     Freeze. 

To  Freeze  Ices  and  Creams:  Use  3  measures  of  ice  to  i  of 
salt.  (Rock  salt  should  be  used.)  If  a  patent  freezer  is  used, 
scald  the  can  and  paddle,  then  cool.  Put  in  the  cream,  fasten 
the  can  in  place  in  the  freezer,  put  in  3  measures  of  ice,  i  of 
salt,  repeating  till  tub  is  filled  to  just  below  seam  of  can  ;  turn 
crank  slowly  and  steadily  till  mixture  is  frozen.  Remove  dasher, 
scrape  cream  from  sides  of  can,  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let 
stand  at  least  \  hour  to  ripen.  If  a  small  patent  freezer  is  not 
available,  creams  and  ices  may  be  satisfactorily  frozen  by  using  a 
cocoa  or  baking  powder  tin.  Scald  and  cool  as  directed  above. 
Put  in  the  mixture  to  be  frozen,  cover,  put  the  can  in  a  lard 
pail  or  saucepan.  Pack  with  salt  and  ice  as  directed  above. 
Every  10  minutes  remove  cover  from  can.  Scrape  frozen  cream 
from  sides  of  tin  towards  center,  beat  well.  Repeat  until  cream 
is  frozen  throughout. 

To  Serve  Creams  and  Ices :  Serve  on  cold  plates  or  in  small 
glass  sherbet  cups.     Ices  may  be  garnished  with  whipped  cream. 


ICES 

Water 

Sugar 

Lemon. 

ic 

Jc. 

Fruit  juice 

i\  tbsps.  lemon  juice. 


26  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

Water  Sugar  Fruit  juice 

Orange.        i  c.  \  c.  i  c.  orange  juice. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  lo  minutes.  Cool.  Add  fruit  juice. 
Freeze.  The  orange  ice  is  attractive  served  in  an  orange  basket 
as  directed  under  orange  jelly  (page  23). 

CRANBERRY   ICE 

Cranberries,  i  c. 

Water,  i  c. 

Sugar,  \  c. 

Juice  of  \  lemon. 

Cook  cranberries  in  the  water  until  soft.  Strain  ;  add  sugar ; 
cook  until  that  is  dissolved ;  cool,  add  lemon  juice  and  freeze. 
Serve  in  glasses  with  whipped  cream. 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


CHAPTER    III 

SOFT    OR    CONVALESCENT    DIET 

Everything   included    in    Fluid   and    Light    Soft    Diets.      In 
addition  :  — 
Sweetbreads. 
Calves'  brains. 
Fish. 
Chicken. 
Squabs. 

Eggs  in  all  forms  except  the  hard-boiled  whites. 
Potatoes  in  all  forms  except  fried. 
Asparagus. 
Peas. 

Cauliflower. 
Fruits. 

Desserts,  excepting  pastries  and  rich  cakes. 
Occasionally  chops  and  steaks  are  allowed. 

MEATS,  FISH,  SWEETBREADS,  POULTRY,  BIRDS,  BACON 

To  Select  :  Meats  should  be  firm  fleshed.  The  red  meats 
bright  in  color.  Fat  of  mutton  should  be  white ;  fat  of  beef 
yellowish.  Poultry  should  be  plump  in  proportion  to  its  weight. 
The  end  of  breast  bone  in  young  chicken  is  soft  and  flexible. 
Squabs  should  have  soft,  pliable  feet  and  bills.  Fish  should  have 
firm  flesh,  bright,  unsunken  eyes,  red  gills.  All  fish  and  meat 
should  be  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth  before  cooking. 

Special  Preparation  :  Sweetbreads  should  be  thrown  into 
cold  water  for  i  hour  when  received  from  market,  then  drained. 
Put  on  the  fire  a  saucepan  full  of  water,  with  i  tbsp.  each  salt 
and  vinegar.     When  it  boils,  add  sweetbreads.     Simmer  15  to  20 

27 


28  A    Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

minutes,  drain,  throw  into  cold  water.  Cool  quickly.  Remove 
membrane,  fat,  and  veins. 

Preparation  of  Calves'  Brains :  Soak  one  set  of  brains  in  cold 
water  i  hour.  Remove  membrane.  Have  ready  a  saucepan  full 
of  boiling  salted  water  ;  add  i  tbsp.  vinegar ;  throw  in  the  brains 
and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Throw  into  cold  water.  At  serving 
time  break  up  the  brains  with  a  fork,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter 
in  a  pan ;  when  melted,  add  the  brains  and  stir  until  thoroughly 
heated.     Season  with  salt.     Serve  at  once. 

Preparation  of  Birds  for  Broiling :  Remove  head  and  crop, 
singe,  split  down  middle  of  back,  remove  contents,  cut  off  feet 
and  tips  of  wings.     Wipe  thoroughly  with  damp  cheese  cloth. 

Preparation  of  Birds  for  Roasting :  Remove  head  and  crop, 
singe,  make  small  cut  below  end  of  breast  bone,  with  finger 
remove  contents ;  cut  off  feet,  wipe  inside  and  out.  Skewer  into 
shape  with  toothpicks. 

Note.  —  Directions  for  squab  in  following  tables  to  be  used  for  other  birds, 
changing  time  as  necessary.  Dark  meat  (snipe,  grouse,  reedbird,  quail,  duck) 
should  be  served  rare  ;  white  meat  (partridge,  pheasants)  well  done. 

Broiling  :  When  coal  fire  is  used,  heat  broiler  over  clear  fire, 
grease  lightly,  put  in  meat,  hold  close  to  coals  on  each  side  until 
seared,  then  holding  farther  away  cook  required  time,  as  in  table, 
turning  every  time  10  is  slowly  counted.  Put  on  hot  plate,  spread 
with  soft  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.      Serve  at  once. 

If  gas  is  used,  put  meat  under  flame  and  cook  required  time, 
turning  but  once  when  meat  is  half  done. 


Table 

Meat 

Time 

Special  directions 

Steak. 

I  in.  thick,  8-10  min. 

Garnish  with    parsley 

li  in.  thick,  10-15  min. 

or  cress. 

Chop. 

10-12  min. 

Garnish   with    parsley 
or  cress. 

Peas    also    an    appro- 
priate garnish. 

Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet 


29 


Meat  Time  Special  directions 

Squab.  12  min.  Serve    on    toast    gar- 

nished with  currant 
jelly,  peas,  cress,  or 
parsley. 

Chicken.  20-30  min.  Prepare  as  directed  for 

broiled  squab.  Cook 
all  but  5  min.  of  the 
time  with  flesh  side 
toward  flame,  then 
turn  and  cook  skin 
side.  The  skin  burns 
easily.  Garnish  with 
toast  points  and  cress 
or  parsley. 

Sweetbreads.  10  min.  Split     lengthwise. 

Brush  each  side  with 
butter  when  half 
cooked.  Serve  with 
peas. 

Fish.  t; -20  min.,  according  to     Small    fish    may    be 

broiled  whole.  Large 
fish  are  split  or  cut  in 
cutlets.  Spread  large 
fish  with  butter  when 
cooking  is  half  done. 
Garnish  with  lemon 
and  parsley. 

Roasting:  Prepare  meat,  put    in   hot    oven  until    surface  is 
seared,  reduce  heat  and  cook  required  time,  basting  frequently. 

Table 

Meat  Time 

Squab.  20  min. 

nish  with  jelly,  peas, 
and   parsley  or   cress. 


5-20  min.,  according  to 
size.  Fish  is  done  when 
flesh  separates  easily 
from  bone. 


Special  directions 

Serve  on  toast.     Gar- 


30 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Meat 

Sweetbreads 
parboiled  (p.  27). 


Time  Special  directions 

o  min.  Roll  in  beaten  Qgg  or 

melted  butter,  then  in 
bread   crumbs.      Put 
in  buttered  pan,  bake 
until  brown.     Serve 
with  white  sauce,  made 
with  I  tbsp.  each  butter 
and  flour  to  ^  c.  milk. 
Garnish  with  peas. 
To  Smother  :  In  bottom  of  casserole,  or  (if  that  is  not  at  hand) 
any  baking  dish  that  has  a  cover  and  may  be  used  for  serving,  put 
a  layer  of  vegetable,  using  either  celery  finely  cut  or  a  mixture  of 
celery,  onion,  and  parsley,  or  celery  and  carrot  parboiled  5  minutes. 
Fill  the  dish  half  full  of  hot  water.     Put  in  meat  to  be  smothered 
(see  directions  below).     Cover.     Cook  in  moderate  oven  required 
time.      Serve  in  same  dish  ;  garnish,  if  desired,  with  peas  or  aspara- 
gus tips. 

Gravy:  If  a  gravy  is  desired,  pour  off  the  broth  into  a  cup 
and  add  sufficient  hot  water  to  make  i  c.  In  small  saucepan  cook 
f  tbsp.  butter  until  brown,  add  f  tbsp.  flour,  cook  together  until 
brown.  Add  liquid  I  at  a  time,  stirring  each  time  until  it  thickens. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  meat  in  casserole. 


Meat 

Sweetbread. 
Parboil  (p.  27). 


Time 


20  mm. 


Squab, 
as   for 

(p- 


Prepare 
roasting 


30  min.  to  45  min. 


28). 


Note 

Put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  on  sweetbread 
when  put  in  casserole. 
If  desired,  omit  water 
and  place  strips  of 
bacon  across'  breast 
and  legs.  A  few  juni- 
per berries  may  be  put 
in  body.  Brown  bird  in 
small  amount  of  butter 
in  frying  pan  before 
putting  in  casserole. 


Soft  or  Co?rualescent  Diet  31 

BONED   SQUAB 

Remove  crop  and  head.  Singe,  cut  off  wings  close  to  body. 
Cut  off  feet.  Cut  to  bone  the  entire  length  of  spine.  Beginning 
at  neck  and  working  towards  breast  bone,  scrape  all  the  flesh  away 
from  the  bone,  cutting  when  tendonous  portions  are  reached. 
When  both  sides  have  been  scraped,  scrape  along  edge  of  breast 
bone,  taking  care  not  to  break  through  skin.  Scrape  flesh  from 
leg  bones,  turning  leg  inside  out  as  you  do  it.  Scrape  flesh 
from  lower  part  of  back.  Holding  flesh  in  one  hand  and  carcass 
in  other,  pull  apart.  Turn  legs  right  side  out,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  put  edges  of  back  together  and  plump  into  shape. 
Scrub  large  potato  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  Scrape  out  enough 
potato  from  each  side  to  make  a  place  for  the  boned  bird.  Put  in 
the  bird,  tie  the  potato  together  with  strong  twine.  Place  in  hot 
oven.  Bake  45  to  50  minutes.  Remove  string,  tie  with  ribbon, 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

Gelatin,  k  tsp. 

Cold  water,  i  tbsp. 

Strong  chicken  broth,  4  tbsps. 

Chopped  cooked  chicken,  2  tbsps. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  5  minutes.  Heat  the  chicken 
broth  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  the  gelatin.  Stir  until  the 
gelatin  is  dissolved.  Season  with  salt.  Wet  a  mold  in  cold  water, 
and  in  it  pour  sufficient  of  the  gelatin  mixture  to  just  coat  the 
bottom.  Set  on  ice  to  harden.  When  hard,  place  on  it  i  slice 
hard  boiled  ^g%,  or  i  slice  lemon,  or  any  decoration  preferred. 
Add  a  few  drops  gelatin  mixture,  but  not  enough  to  cover  the 
decoration.  When  this  is  hard,  mix  the  remainder  of  the  gelatin 
with  the  chopped  chicken  and  fill  the  mold.  Unmold  at  serving 
time,  and  serve  garnished  with  lettuce  or  cress  and  radishes  cut 
in  fancy  shapes. 

BACON  BROILED 

Put  thin  strips  of  bacon  in  broiler.  Place  broiler  over  baking 
pan.     Cook  in  hot  oven  until  crisp. 


32  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

BACON  FRIED 

Heat  frying  pan  very  hot.  Put  in  strips  of  thinly  sliced  bacon. 
As  fat  is  drawn  out,  pour  it  into  a  cup ;  cook  bacon  until  crisp  and 
brown.     Drain  on  soft  paper. 

BROILED   HAM 

Cut  in  moderately  thick  slices.  If  very  salt,  soak  in  hot  water 
15  minutes.  Broil  from  8  to  12  minutes.  Broiled  ham  is  more 
delicate  when  a  slice  of  boiled,  instead  of  raw,  ham  is  used.  Broil 
until  browned  on  both  sides. 

CREAMED   DISHES 

\  c.  white  sauce  (made  with  i  tbsp.  each  butter  and  flour  to 
\  c.  milk)  to  any  one  of  the  following :  — 

Sweetbreads.      2  c.  sweetbread,  parboiled,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Chicken.  \  c.  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  small  cubes.     Sea- 

son with  salt  and  pepper.  With  chicken,  chicken 
broth  may  replace  part  of  the  milk  in  making  the 
sauce. 

Fish.  \  c.  cold  cooked  fish,  the  skin  and  bones  removed 

and  the  flesh  flaked  with  a  fork.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice. 

To  Serve :    i.  Serve  on  toast,  garnish  with  parsley. 

2.  Scalloped:  Put  in  small  baking  dish.  Cover  with  dried 
bread  crumbs  ;  dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter  ;  brown  in  oven. 

3.  WitJi  Egg :  Spread  toast  with  creamed  chicken  or  sweet- 
bread. Make  a  depression  in  center.  Place  in  that  the  yolk  of 
an  ^gg\  put  in  oven  to  set  the  ^gg. 

la.  Add  to  mixture  the  slightly  beaten  yolk  of  i  ^gg.  Cook 
I  minute.     Serve  on  toast. 

4.  Molded:  Use  \  instead  of  \  c.  sauce  to  i  c.  meat  or  fish. 
Place  in  mold  slightly  buttered.  Put  in  pan  of  hot  water  in  mod- 
erate oven  until  firm.  Unmold,  garnish  with  parsley  (and  lemon  if 
fish),  pour  around  it  2  tbsps.  sauce. 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet  33 

\a.  Pdtd :  Press  mashed  potato  that  is  rather  stiff  in  a 
buttered  pie  -plate,  having  it  \  inch  in  thickness.  When  cold, 
cut  out  2  rounds  with  a  large  cutter,  place  i  round  on  a  buttered 
tin.  From  center  of  other  round  cut  a  round  with  a  smaller 
cutter.  Place  the  ring  on  first  round  and  place  the  small  round 
on  the  tin.  Brush  ring  and  small  round  with  yolk  of  ^gg  slightly 
beaten.  Put  in  oven.  When  browned,  place  pate  on  hot  plate, 
scoop  a  little  of  the  potato  from  center,  fill  with  creamed  meat  or 
fish.  Place  small  round  on  top  for  a  cover,  garnish  with  parsley 
or  peas. 

4^.  Bread  Pate :  Cut  a  piece  of  bread  3  inches  thick.  Trim 
away  the  crusts,  cut  out  the  center,  leaving  a  floor  and  walls 
\  inch  thick.  Brush  with  butter,  place  in  oven  to  brown  and 
dry.     Fill  with  creamed  meat  or  fish,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

OYSTERS 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  until  May. 

Raw 

Allow  6  to  8  for  one  person.  Serve  in  deep  half  of  shell. 
Arrange  on  soup  plate  filled  with  cracked  ice,  garnish  (i)  with 
quarter  of  lemon  and  parsley.  (2)  Make  a  lemon  basket,  accord- 
ing to  directions  for  orange  basket  (page  23) ;  remove  all  pulp  from 
under  handle,  but  leave  half  of  the  pulp  in  lower  part  of  basket. 
Fill  other  half  basket  with  catsup  or  horse-radish.  Place  in  center 
of  plate,  garnish  with  parsley  or  water  cress. 

Creamed 

Wash  oysters  as  follows  :  — 

Put  in  strainer,  pour  over  them  I  c.  cold  water.  Pass  fingers 
gently  over  each  oyster  to  make  sure  it  is  free  from  shell  and  sand. 
To  every  cup  oysters  drained  thoroughly  from  liquor,  add  \  c. 
white  sauce,  made  with  \\  tbsps.  each  butter  and  flour,  and  \  c. 
milk.  Heat  thoroughly,  and  serve  at  once  on  toast,  or  in  a  bread 
box,  or  in  a  potato  pate.  Some  finely  cut  celery  may  be  sprinkled 
over  top. 


34  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

OYSTERS  —  Continued 

Scalloped 

Wash  12  oysters.  Cover  bottom  of  individual  baking  dish 
with  soft  bread  crumbs,  moisten  with  i  tsp.  cream.  Add  6 
oysters.  Cover  these  with  soft  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  i  tsp.  cream.  Add  remaining  oysters.  Cover  with 
crumbs.  Dot  with  butter,  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes.  Serve 
at  once. 

Panned 

Heat  small  frying  pan.  Make  2  slices  of  toast.  In  frying 
pan  put  5  or  6  oysters.  Shake  over  moderate  fire  until  edges 
curl.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  ^  tbsp.  butter.  Pour 
over  I  slice  toast,  garnish  with  parsley,  lemon,  and  toast  points. 
Serve  at  once. 

Broiled 

Fine  bread  crumbs,  melted  butter,  4  large  oysters.  With 
silver  fork  lift  each  oyster  by  tough  muscle,  and  dip  first  in  butter 
then  in  crumbs.  Place  on  oyster  broiler  slightly  greased  and 
broil,  turning  often  over  clear  fire  until  brown  and  the  juices  begin 
to  flow.      Serve  at  once ;  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

EGGS 

Boiled  and  Poached    (pages  15  and  16). 

Scrambled 

(i)  Beat  I  Qgg  slightly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
I  tbsp.  milk,  {a)  In  small  frying  pan  put  i  tsp.  butter.  When 
hot,  add  Qgg  mixture.  Stir  with  fork  on  side  of  range  until  just 
coagulated.  Serve  at  once  on  toast.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
{b)  Pour  Qgg  mixture  in  top  part  of  small  double  boiler.  Put  on 
the  stove  over  hot  water.  Stir  constantly  until  coagulated.  Add 
^  tsp.  butter,  and  serve  on  hot  plate.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

(2)  Beat  yolk  of  i  ^gg  slightly ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  i  tbsp. 
milk.     Add  white  beaten  stiff,  cook  either  by  method  {a)  or  {b). 

Variations:  Scrambled  eggs  may  be  varied  by  serving  on 
I  slice  creamed  toast  or  by  using  i  tbsp.  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes  in  place  of  the  milk. 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet  35 

EGGS  —  Continued 

Shirred 

Butter  slightly  an  Q.gg  shirrer.  Break  into  it  i  ^gg.  Dust 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  cook  in 
moderate  oven  until  just  coagulated.     Serve  in  shirrer. 

Variations:  (i)  Before  putting  ^gg  in  shirrer,  cover  bottom 
of  shirrer  with  soft  crumbs  or  with  i  tbsp.  white  sauce  or  i  tbsp. 
stewed  tomato  or  i  slice  tomato.  Add  the  ^gg,  and  cover  with 
same  ingredient  or  leave  plain,  as  desired. 

(2)  Instead  of  using  an  &gg  shirrer,  scoop  out  all  the  center 
from  a  tomato  or  a  green  pepper.  Break  into  it  i  ^gg,  put  in 
moderate  oven  until  ^gg  is  just  coagulated. 

(3)  Poach  an  ^gg.  Have  ready  in  ^gg  shirrer  i  tbsp.  white 
sauce.  Place  on  this  the  poached  ^gg.  Cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  If  desired,  I2  t.sps. 
grated  cheese  may  be  mixed  with  crumbs. 

In  Nest 

(i)  With  a  large  cutter  stamp  out  a  round  from  a  slice  of 
bread.  Toast  it.  Separate  the  white  and  yolk  of  an  ^gg^  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  yolk.  Add  \  tsp.  salt  to  the  white,  and 
beat  stiff.  Moisten  toast  with  hot  water  ;  place  it  on  a  buttered 
tin  ;  pile  on  it  the  white.  Make  a  depression  in  center  of  white 
with  a  teaspoon,  drop  into  it  the  yolk,  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  firm  to  touch  and  slightly  browned.  Serve  at  once  on 
hot  plate. 

(2)  Separate  white  and  yolk  of  ^gg,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  yolk.  Add  \  tsp.  salt  to  white.  Beat  stiff ;  put  in  glass  or 
m  a  pretty  china  bowl.  Place  on  trivet  in  saucepan  of  hot  water. 
Place  over  moderate  fire.  As  ^gg  rises  in  glass,  make  depression 
in  center,  and  in  it  drop  the  yolk.  When  water  boils,  ^gg  is 
cooked.     Serve  in  the  glass. 

TiMBALE 

Beat  I  ^gg  slightly,  or  until  a  spoonful  can  be  taken  up 
without  stringing.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  \  c.  milk. 
Strain  into  a  small  mold  or  cup.     Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 


$6  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

EGGS  —  Continued 

bake  in  moderate  oven  until  firm  (about  20  minutes).  Unmold, 
and  serve  with  white  sauce  to  which  has  been  added  sufficient 
catsup  to  give  a  pink  color.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Omelets 

I  tbsp.  milk  or  water. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

\  tbsp.  butter. 

Beat  yolk  until  thick  and  lemon-colored.  Add  milk,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Beat  white  until  stiff.  Fold  into  yolk.  Heat  small  fry- 
ing pan.  Put  in  the  butter,  and  when  hot  pour  in  the  omelet. 
Shake  over  moderate  fire  until  underside  is  a  delicate  brown, 
then  place  in  moderate  oven  until  top  is  firm  to  gentle  touch. 
Crease  through  center  of  omelet  at  right  angles  to  pan  handle, 
tipping  the  pan ;  roll  one-half  the  omelet  over  the  other,  guiding 
with  palette  knife.  Put  a  hot  plate  over  pan  and  turn  upside 
down.     Garnish  with  parsley.      Serve  at  once. 

Fretich  Method:  Beat  2  yolks  and  the  white  of  i  ^gg  with 
a  fork  until  a  spoonful  can  be  taken  up.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  i  tbsp.  milk  or  water.  Heat  omelet  pan,  put  in 
^  tbsp.  butter.  When  hot,  pour  in  the  omelet  mixture.  Shake 
pan  over  moderate  fire,  pricking  or  lifting  up  the  ^gg  with  a  fork 
as  it  coagulates,  that  the  uncooked  portion  may  run  under.  When 
almost  all  the  ^gg  is  cooked,  let  the  underside  become  a  delicate 
brown.  Tipping  the  pan,  guide  with  palette  knife  one-half  the 
omelet  over  the  other  half.  Hold  a  hot  plate  over  pan.  Turn 
upside  down.     Serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

Note.  —  In  making  omelets  have  a  pan  proportionate  in  size  to  the  number  of 
eggs  to  be  used. 

Savory  Omelets 

Variations :  (i)  Mix  i  tbsp.  chopped  parsley  with  yolk  of  ^gg 
before  cooking. 

(2)  Before  folding,  spread  lower  half  of  omelet  with  i  tbsp. 
creamed  chicken,  or   i   tbsp.  stewed   tomato,  or   i   tbsp.  jelly,  or 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet  37 

EGGS  —  Continued 

I   tomato  peeled  and  sliced,  or   i  tbsp.  asparagus  tips,  or   i   tbsp. 
peas. 

(3)  After  omelet  is  turned  out  on  plate,  surround  with  peas 
or  asparagus  tips  or  creamed  cauliflower  or  stewed  tomato. 

Sweet  Omelets 

(4)  Omit  pepper,  add  i  tbsp.  sugar  to  ^gg.  Spread  with  jelly 
or  fruit  before  turning.  If  fruit  is  to  be  used,  i  tbsp.  fruit  juice 
may  be  substituted  for  the  milk. 

(5)  Add  3  tbsps.  warm  cereal  of  any  kind  to  the  yolk,  and 
omit  the  milk  or  water. 

(6)  Soak  2  tbsps.  stale  bread  crumbs  in  2  tbsps.  milk  until 
crumbs  have  taken  up  milk.  Then  add  to  yolk  in  place  of  milk 
or  water. 

Egg  Vermicelli,  or  Japanese  Eggs 

\  c.  white  sauce,  made  with  f  tbsp.  each  butter  and  flour  to 
\  c.  milk;    i   hard  boiled  ^gg,    i   slice  toast  or  i  c.  boiled  rice. 

(a)  Chop  the  ^gg  white  very  fine,  add  to  sauce,  and  heat  over 
hot  water.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  it  over 
the  toast.  Rub  the  yolk  through  a  strainer  or  vegetable  press 
over  the  sauce.     Garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. 

{b)  In  place  of  toast  arrange  the  rice  in  form  of  a  nest  on  a 
hot  plate.  Put  the  sauce  in  the  hollow,  cover  it  with  yolk,  garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve.  The  white  of  ^gg  may  be  omitted  in 
either  recipe  and  only  the  yolk  used. 

POTATOES 

Boiled 

Scrub  I  potato  thoroughly.  Pare  or  not,  as  desired.  In  the 
spring,  when  potatoes  are  old,  soak  in  cold  water  for  2  hours. 
Put  in  boiling  salted  water,  cover,  and  boil  until  soft  (20  to  30 
minutes).  Drain  thoroughly,  return  saucepan  to  warm  place  on 
range,  and  let  stand,  uncovered,  until  moisture  has  escaped.  Serve 
in  hot  dish  with  butter. 


38  A   Cook  Book  for  Ntirses 

POTATOES  —  Continued 

RiCED 

I  boiled  potato.  When  ready  to  serve,  press  through  vegetable 
press  on  a  hot  plate,  or  press  through  vegetable  press  into  a  baking 
dish.     Put  in  hot  oven  to  brown. 

Mashed 

I  boiled  potato.  When  ready  to  serve,  mash  in  same  saucepan 
with  fork  or  wire  potato  masher,  or  put  through  vegetable  press. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  sufficient  hot  milk 
to  make  of  consistency  desired.  Beat  until  light,  and  pile  lightly 
on  hot  dish.  Or,  put  into  baking  dish,  brush  top  lightly  with  i  tsp. 
yolk  of  ^gg  beaten  with  i  tsp.  milk ;  put  in  hot  oven  to  brown. 
Or,  fold  into  the  mashed  potato  beaten  light  \  the  white  of  an  ^gg 
beaten  stiff.  Put  in  baking  dish  ;  put  in  moderate  oven,  and  bake 
until  firm  to  touch  and  browned.      Serve  in  same  dish. 

Baked 

Scrub  I  potato  thoroughly.  Put  in  hot  oven,  and  bake  until 
soft  to  pressure.  Break  skin  slightly  that  steam  may  escape. 
Serve  at  once. 

Stuffed 

Bake  i  potato.  When  done,  cut  out  a  square  piece  from  side 
with  teaspoon.  Remove  all  the  potato,  leaving  skin  intact.  Put 
through  vegetable  press,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  i  to 
2  tbsps.  hot  milk.  Beat  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Add  \  the 
white  of  I  ^gg  beaten  very  stiff.  Refill  potato  skin,  heaping 
the  potato  at  the  opening.  Return  to  oven  to  brown.  Or,  omit 
the  ^gg  white,  refill  potato  skin,  brush  with  \  tsp.  ^gg  yolk  beaten 
in  \  tsp.  milk.     Return  to  oven  to  brown. 

Creamed 

I  boiled  potato.  While  still  hot,  cut  into  cubes.  Have  ready 
\  c.  white  sauce,  made  with  |  tbsp.  each  butter  and  flour  to  \  c. 
milk.  Add  §  c.  of  the  potato  cubes,  mixing  lightly  with  fork  to 
avoid  breaking  the  potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  and 
serve  in  hot  dish. 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet 


39 


POTATOES  —  Continued 

Scalloped  - 

Put  creamed  potatoes  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  dried  bread 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  place  in  hot  oven  to  brown. 

Franconia  or  Brabant 

Pare  i  potato,  parboil  lO  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Put  in  buttered  pan;  put  in  hot  oven  and  bake  20  to  25  min- 
utes, basting  three  times  with  2  tsps.  melted  butter,  or  baste  with 
drippings  from  roasting  beef. 


GREEN  VEGETABLES 

General  Rule :  Wash.  Cook  uncovered  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  soft.  Drain  immediately.  If  not  to  be  used  at  once,  chill 
with  cold  water.     Reheat  at  serving  time  in  butter  or  sauce. 

See  special  directions  for  spinach. 

Time  Special  directions 

Asparagus.  20  to  30  minutes.        Snap     off      stalk,     tie     in 

bunches. 
Serve  on  toast  moistened  with  the  water  in 
which    asparagus    was    cooked.      Pour    over   it 
melted   butter,  or   mix  with  white    sauce.     Or 
serve  in  bread  box. 

Time  Special  directions 

Cauliflower.       20  to  30  minutes.        Soak    head    downward    in 

cold  water  30  minutes. 
Serve  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  sepa- 
rate into  flowerets.  Arrange  in  serving  dish. 
Pour  over  it  white  sauce.  Or,  mix  with  \  c. 
white  sauce ;  put  in  baking  dish ;  cover  with 
crumbs.     Bake  until  brown. 

Time  Special  directions 

Celery.  20  to  30  minutes.       Scrape  celery.     Cut  stalks 

in  \  inch  pieces. 
To   I  c.  celery  add  \  c.  white  sauce,  made 
with    I  tbsp.  each  butter  and  flour,  i  c.  water 
in  which  celery  was  cooked,  and  \  c.  milk. 


40  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

Time  Special  directions 

Peas.  20  to  60  minutes.        Shell,  soak   in  cold  water 

30    minutes.       Skim    un- 
developed   peas   from   top. 
A   sprig  of    mint    may   be 
boiled  with  peas. 
Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.     Use 
as  garnish  for  meat,  or  serve  in  vegetable  dish 
or  in  croustade,  or  mix  peas  with  white  sauce. 

Time  Special  directions 

String  Beans.       30  to  60  minutes.       String  carefully.     Break 

each  bean  in  2  or  3  parts. 
Serve  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Spinach.  Wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters  until  perfectly 
free  from  grit.  If  young,  put  in  saucepan  without  water,  and  let 
cook  in  its  own  juice  until  soft.  If  old,  cook  in  boiling  water. 
Drain,  and  serve  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Or,  chop  fine, 
reheat  in  a  small  quantity  of  thickened  broth  or  in  small  quantity 
white  sauce,  press  in  shape  on  serving  dish.  Garnish  with  poached 
^gg  or  slice  of  hard-cooked  ^gg. 

TOMATOES 

Raw 

Place  tomato  in  bowl.  Pour  over  it  sufificient  boiling  water  to 
cover  it.  Let  it  stand  i  minute,  no  longer.  Remove  skin.  Put 
on  ice  to  chill.  With  sharp  knife  cut  in  slices  ;  place  on  lettuce 
leaf. 

Stewed 

Wash  2  tomatoes.  Cut  in  quarters ;  put  in  stew  pan.  Cook 
20  minutes.     Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Scalloped 

Wash  I  tomato.  Cut  in  half,  remove  seeds;  put  a  layer  of 
soft  crumbs  in  bottom  of  individual  baking  dish ;  put  on  this  the 
half  tomato  cut  in  small  pieces,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  sugar,  if  desired.  Add  another  layer  of  crumbs,  then  the 
remaining  tomato  and  seasoning,  lastly  crumbs.    Place  small  pieces 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet  41 

TOMATOES  —Continued 

of  butter  on>  top,  put  in  slow  oven,  and  bake  20  to  30  minutes. 
Serve  in  small  dish. 

Broiled 

Wash  a  tomato ;  cut  in  thick  slices.  Dip  each  slice  in  dried 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  ^^g,  last  in  crumbs ;  place  on  greased 
broiler  and  broil  until  brown,  turning  frequently. 

Stuffed 

Wash  I  tomato,  cut  thin  slice  from  stem  end.  Remove  seeds 
and  pulp.  Sprinkle  inside  of  tomato  with  salt,  and  invert  for 
30  minutes.  Melt  \  tbsp.  butter,  add  if  tbsps.  chopped  cold 
chicken  or  other  cold  meat,  if  tbsps.  soft  bread  crumbs,  the 
tomato  pulp,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  2  or  3  minutes. 
Add  2  tsps.  beaten  ^g'g.  Cook  i  minute  longer.  Refill  tomato 
with  mixture,  place  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  bake 
15  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

SALADS 

French  Dressing 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Pepper,  a  dash. 

Oil,  I  tbsp. 

Vinegar,  \  tbsp. 

Mix  salt  and  pepper.  Add  oil  slowly,  then  the  vinegar.  Beat 
with  Dover  ^%g  beater  for  i  minute. 

Cream  Dressing 

Mix  together  in  top  part  of  double  boiler  the  following  in- 
gredients :  — 

Salt,  I  tsp. 

Mustard,  f  tsp. 

Egg,  I,  slightly  beaten. 

Butter,  2  tbsps. 

Cream,  f  c. 

Add  very  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  \  c.  vinegar. 

Put  over  hot  water  and  cook  until  thickened,  stirring  all  the 
time. 


42  A  Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

SALADS  —  Continued 

Mayonnaise 

Salt,  i  tsp. 

Mustard,  i  tsp. 

Cayenne,  a  dash. 

Egg,  I  yolk. 

Olive  oil,  f  c. 

Vinegar,  i  tbsp. 

Mix  together  in  bowl  the  salt,  mustard,  and  cayenne.  Add 
the  yolk.  Beat  together  with  a  fork.  Add  the  oil  drop  by  drop 
(a  medicine  dropper  is  a  convenience),  beating  and  stirring  all  the 
while  with  fork.  When  very  thick,  add  i  tsp.  of  the  vinegar. 
Then  add  oil  more  rapidly  than  at  first,  but  never  adding  at  one 
time  more  than  can  be  well  incorporated.  When  very  thick,  thin 
with  vinegar.  Repeat  until  materials  are  all  used.  Keep  in  cold 
place.  At  serving  time  the  white  of  i  &gg  beaten  stiff  or  I  c. 
whipped  cream  may  be  added. 

Salads  with  French  Dressing 

1.  Plain  lettuce. 

2.  Lettuce  and  radishes.  Radishes  may  be  cut  to  represent 
flowers  or  in  thin  slices. 

3.  Lettuce  and  finely  cut  celery. 

4.  Lettuce  shredded.  Arrange  in  form  of  nest,  filling  with 
2  or  3  small  balls  the  shape  and  size  of  birds'  eggs,  made  from 
Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese. 

5.  Water  cress. 

6.  Water  cress  and  radishes. 

7.  Water  cress  and  chopped  apple. 

8.  Water  cress  and  thin-skinned  oranges  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Use  lemon  juice  in  place  of  vinegar  in  dressing. 

9.  i  potato  cut  into  very  fine  cubes  while  hot,  and  mixed 
with  dressing.  When  cold,  i  tsp.  chopped  onion  added.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaf. 

10.  The  same  as  9,  with  addition  of  i  or  2  tsps.  chopped 
celery  when  cold. 


-  v^4it^^^^  Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet  43 

SALADS  —  Continued 

11.  Same  as  9.  i  or  2  English  walnuts  cut  in  quarters 
added  when  cold. 

12.  Lettuce  and  green  peas  or  asparagus  tips. 

13.  Sliced  tomato  and  lettuce,  or  tomato  jelly  and  lettuce. 

Salads  with  Cream  or  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

To  Marinate.  —  If  mayonnaise  is  used,  mix  materials  with  a  French  dressing, 
and  let  stand  30  minutes  or  longer.     Use  the  mayonnaise  for  masking  or  garnishing. 

1 .  Finely  cut  celery  alone  or  with  i  or  2  tsps.  chopped  apple 
or  I  or  2  chopped  nuts.     Garnish  with  curled  celery  and  celery  tops. 

2.  Celery,  finely  cut  apple,  and  nuts.  Serve  in  cups  made 
by  scooping  out  a  red  apple.     Garnish  with  celery  tops. 

3.  Any  of  the  following  vegetables,  alone  or  in  combination  : 
asparagus  ;  young,  tender  beets ;  young,  tender  carrots  ;  peas  ;  string 
beans.     Serve  on  lettuce. 

4.  Tomato,  stem  end  cut  out.  Cavity  filled  with  dressing  or 
with  finely  cut  celery  or  chicken.  Or  tomato  cut  in  quarters  or 
sliced.  Serve  with  lettuce  or  cress.  Do  not  marinate  the  tomato 
salads. 

5.  3  tbsps.  chicken  cut  in  cubes,  \\  tbsps.  celery  cut  fine. 
Serve  on  lettuce  and  garnish  with  celery  tops  and  olives. 

6.  Chicken  finely  cut,  lettuce  shredded. 

7.  Celery  cut  fine.  Sections  of  orange  pulp  or  grape  fruit 
pulp.     Serve  in  orange  basket  or  half  grape  fruit  skin. 

Tomato  Jelly 

Gelatin,  i  tsp. 

Cold  water,  i  tbsp. 

Tomatoes,  f  c.  scant. 

Small  piece  onion. 

Small  piece  bay  leaf. 

I  clove. 

\  tsp.  salt. 

Cook  tomatoes  with  seasoning  10  minutes.  Soak  the  gelatin 
in  the  cold  water.  Strain  the  tomatoes.  Add  8  tbsps.  of  the 
liquid  to  the  gelatin.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Pour  into  a  mold. 
When  set,  turn  out  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Serve  with  any  salad 
dressing.  ^ 


44  ^    Cook  Book  for  Ninses 

DESSERTS 

Trifles 

Any  of  the  soft  custards  may  be  served  by  pouring  while  hot 
over  a  slice  of  stale,  plain  cake,  previously  soaked  in  orange  juice 
or  sherry,  or  by  pouring  when  cold  over  3  sections  of  orange  pulp, 
or  over  \  cooked  or  raw  peach,  or  i  apple  baked  without  skin. 
Cover  with  meringue. 

Sponge  Cake  Croquettes 

Cut  the  crusts  from  a  piece  of  stale  sponge  cake.  Trim  in 
shape  of  a  croquette.  Dry  the  crusts.  Roll  them  fine.  Moisten 
the  cake  thoroughly  with  cream,  or  wine,  or  fruit  juice,  or  cream 
flavored  with  wine  or  fruit  juice.  Then  roll  it  in  the  crumbs. 
Put  in  serving  dishes  and  pour  around  it  soft  custard. 

Hamburg,  Egg,  or  Fruit  Cream 


Egg 

Sugar 

Flavor 

I 

I  tbsp. 

i|  tbsps.  lemon  juice. 

I 

1  tbsp. 

2I  tbsps.  orange  juice. 

I 

1  tbsp. 

i^  tbsps.  wine. 

In  top  of  double  boiler  beat  ^gg  until  thick  and  lemon-colored. 
Add  sugar  and  fruit  juice,  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Beat  white 
of  Qgg  very  stiff.  Add  the  cooked  mixture,  mix  thoroughly,  turn 
into  glass  or  saucer.     Cool. 

Prune  Jelly 

Gelatin,  i  tsp. 

Cold  water,  i  tbsp. 

Prunes,  5. 

Water  in  which  prunes  have  cooked,  4  tbsps. 

Sugar,  \\  tbsps. 

Wine,  I  tbsp. 

Wash  the  prunes.  Add  water,  soak  i  hour  or  longer.  Put 
on  to  boil  in  same  water,  and  cook  until  stones  will  slip  out  easily. 
Remove  stones ;  add  sugar  to  prunes  with  4  tbsps.  of  the  water 
in  which  the  prunes  have  cooked,  and  return  to  fire.  Soak  gelatin 
in  cold  water.  When  prunes  and  sugar  come  to  the  boiling  pointy 
add  to  the  gelatin.  When  dissolved,  add  the  wine.  Pour  into  a 
mold.     When  set,   unmold,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


DESSERTS 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet 
Continued 


45 


Prune  Whip' 

Prunes,  \  lb. 

Sugar,  i  c. 

Wash  prunes,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  In  the 
morning  cook  in  same  water  until  soft.  Remove  stones,  and  press 
prunes  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  sugar,  and  cook  until  of  the 
consistency  of  marmalade.  Beat  white  of  i  ^^g  very  stiff.  To 
it  add  3  tbsps.  prune  mixture  and  \  tsp.  lemon  juice.  Put  in 
glass  dish  and  serve  with  soft  custard,  or  pile  lightly  on  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  8  minutes,  or  until  firm  to  touch. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  with  soft  custard. 

Fruit  Whips 

Fruit  White  of  egg  Powdered  sugar 

Sliced  peaches,  i  c.  \  \  c. 

Strawberries  or  raspberries,  \  o..  \  i  c. 

Method:  Put  ^gg  white,  fruit,  and  sugar  in  large  bowl,  and 
beat  until  stiff  enough  to  drop.     Serve  cold. 

Apple  Snow 

\  the  white  of  i  ^gg. 

Strained  apple  sauce,  2  tbsps. 

Lemon  juice  to  taste. 

Add  lemon  juice  to  apple  sauce.  Whip  ^gg  white  stiff,  fold 
in  the  apple  sauce,  pile  on  dish,  and  serve  with  soft  custard. 
Garnish  with  cubes  of  currant  jelly. 

Charlottes 


Gelatin 


^   ,  J       ^        Thin  cream    „  o 

Cold  water        ___,j_j         Heavy  cream  Sugar 


scalded 


Flavor 


I  tsp. 
I  tsp. 


I  tbsp. 
I  tbsp. 


I  tbsp. 
I  tbsp. 


7  tbsps. 
7  tbsps. 


\\  tbsps. 
2\  tbsps. 


i  tsp.  vanilla. 

I  tbsp.  grated 

chocolate 

melted. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5   minutes.     Add  the  scalded 

cream,  and  stir  over  hot  water  until  dissolved.     (If  chocolate  is 

used,  add  the  hot  cream  gradually  to  the  melted  chocolate,  stirring 


46  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

t 

DESSERTS  —  Continued 

all  the  time.)  While  it  is  cooling,  whip  the  heavy  cream  stiff. 
Add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Pour  the  gelatin,  cooled  but  not  stiffened, 
in  a  slow  stream  into  the  whipped  cream,  beating  all  the  while. 
Line  a  mold  with  lady  fingers  split  in  two,  or  with  a  slice  of 
sponge  cake  ;  pour  in  the  charlotte.  Set  in  cold  place  to  stiffen. 
Unmold,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  candied  cherries. 

Bavarian  Cream 

Gelatin,  i  tsp. 

Cold  water,  i  tbsp. 

Hot  custard,  I  c.  (made  with  I  c.  milk  and  the  yolk  of  i  Qgg). 

Sugar,  ^  tbsp. 

Vanilla,  i  tsp.,  or  i  tbsp.  chocolate,  melted. 

Whipped  cream,  i  c. 

Method :  Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  5  minutes.  Add  the  hot 
custard  and  sugar.  Stir  until  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Flavor  (if 
chocolate  is  used,  add  the  hot  milk  slowly  to  it  before  making 
the  custard).  Set  in  ice  water  to  cool,  beating  almost  constantly 
with  Dover  o^gg  beater.  When  beginning  to  stiffen,  fold  in  the 
whipped  cream.  Pour  into  mold.  Unmold  at  serving  time  and 
serve.      Garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

Ice  Cream  Croquettes 

Make  macaroon  crumbs  by  drying  a  few  macaroons  in  the  oven, 
then  rolling  them  to  a  powder  on  the  board  with  rolling  pin.  Re- 
move cream,  frozen  very  hard,  from  freezer,  using  an  ice  cream 
scoop.  Turn  it  out  on  the  board  and  roll  it  in  the  crumbs,  using 
a  palette  knife.  Place  on  plate,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream 
and  candied  cherries. 

FRUITS 

Baked  Apples 

Wash  I  apple.  Pare  or  not,  as  desired ;  core.  Fill  cavity 
with  sugar.  Put  in  small  baking  pan ;  fill  pan  half  full  of  boiling 
water ;  put  in  moderate  oven.  Bake  until  soft,  but  do  not  let  it 
lose  its  shape. 


Soft  or  Convalescent  Diet  47 

FRUITS  —  Continued 

Apple  Compote 

Have  ready  a  saucepanful  of  boiling  water.  Pare  and  core 
I  apple.  Boil  in  the  water  until  soft,  but  not  broken.  Remove 
with  skimmer.  To  \  of  the  water  add  2  tbsps.  sugar.  Cook  until 
reduced  to  2  tbsps.  Cut  out  a  round  of  bread ;  dip  it  in  the  syrup. 
Place  on  plate.  Place  on  this  the  apple.  Fill  cavity  with  currant 
or  other  bright-colored  jelly ;  pour  a  spoonful  of  syrup  around  it. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Painted  Lady 

Wash  I  red  apple.  Boil  in  water  to  cover  until  soft,  turning 
frequently.  Remove  from  water.  Peel  with  silver  knife.  Scrape 
away  all  the  pulp  adhering  to  skin  and  replace  on  apple.  Smooth 
with  knife.  To  \  c.  of  the  water  add  2  tbsps.  sugar,  and  boil 
until  reduced  to  2  tbsps.  Add  i  tbsp.  orange  juice.  Pour  over 
apple.     Serve  cold. 

Apple  Sauce 

{a)  Wash  2  apples.  Cut  in  eighths,  removing  core.  Put  in 
double  boiler  with  a  very  small  amount  of  water.  Steam  until 
very  soft.  Rub  through  sieve ;  sweeten  to  taste.  If  the  apples 
lack  flavor,  a  thin  slice  of  lemon  or  a  couple  of  whole  cloves  may 
be  cooked  with  them. 

{b)  Wash  and  pare  2  apples.  Cut  in  eighths,  removing  core. 
Drop  in  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Cook  together  in 
saucepan  for  5  minutes  i  c.  sugar,  and  \  c.  water.  Add  enough 
of  the  apple  slices  to  cover  bottom  of  pan.  Cook  until  soft  and 
clear.  Remove  with  skimmer  and  repeat  process  until  all  the 
apple  is  cooked.  Pour  the  remaining  syrup  over  them.  Serve 
cold. 

Baked  Pears  or  Quinces 

Pare  and  core  a  pear  or  quince.  Put  it  in  a  small  stone  crock, 
fill  cavity  with  sugar,  pour  in  water  to  the  depth  of  2  inches. 
Cover  crock,  and  put  in  very  slow  oven  to  cook  for  several  hours, 
until  fruit  is  perfectly  soft,  but  without  losing  shape.  Remove  to 
plate,  pour  over  it  syrup  from  crock.     Serve  cold. 


48  A  Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

FRUITS  —  Continued 

Stewed  Prunes 

Wash  prunes,  and  soak  in  cold  water  to  cover  24  hours.  Put 
on  to  cook  in  same  water,  and  cook  until  soft.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Cook  3  minutes  longer  after  sugar  is  added. 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


CHAPTER   IV 

SPECIAL    DIETS 


DIABETES 


The  following  foods  are  suitable  in  diabetes,  and  in  all  cases 
where  starches  and  sugars  are  forbidden. 

Soups 

All  meat  broths  and  soups  without  the  addition  of  grains. 

Clam  broth  (page  5). 

Broths  with  egg  (page  4). 

Cream  soups  made  as  directed  (page  51). 

Fish 

All  kinds.  Appropriate  sauces ;  melted  butter,  Hollandaise 
(page  52). 

(Clams  and  oysters  sometimes  forbidden.) 

Meat 

All  kinds  except  liver :  gravies  not  to  be  thickened  with  flour. 
Use  the  natural  meat  juice. 

Horse-radish  sauce  (page  53). 

Eggs 

Recipes  already  given,  omitting  bread  crumbs.  Extra  recipes 
(page  53)- 

Vegetables 

Spinach,  and  other  greens.  Lettuce,  cresses,  French  arti- 
chokes (page  54) ;  radishes,  celery,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  niush- 
rooms.  Sometimes  asparagus,  cauliflower,  egg  plant,  onions,  and 
string  beans  are  allowed. 

49 


50  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

DIABETES  —  Continued 

Sauces 

Use  as  much  butter  as  can  be  worked  in. 
Hollandaise  sauce  (page  52). 
Cream  salad  dressing  (page  41). 
Mayonnaise  dressing  (page  42). 
French  dressing  (page  41). 

Desserts 

Nuts  (except  chestnuts  and  peanuts).  Jellies  and  cream 
puddings,  sweetened    with   saccharin    instead   of   sugar. 

Note.  —  In  using  saccharin,  use  ^  grain  for  bland  desserts,  \  grain  for  very 
acid  desserts.  Dissolve  the  saccharin  in  \  tsp.  cool  water,  and,  except  where  food 
is  baked,  add  at  the  end  of  the  cooking. 

Recipes  already  given  that  may  be  adapted  to  diabetics  by 
substituting  cream  for  all  or  part  of  the  milk,  and  substituting 
saccharin  for  sugar,  are  the  following : 

Custards 

Baked  and  boiled,  flavored  with  vanilla  or  grated  peel  of  * 
orange  or  lemon  (pages   18,   19). 

A  boiled  custard  may  be  poured,  when  cold,  over  some  chopped 
nuts. 

Bavarian  Cream  (page  46). 

i  to  I  tbsp.  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  as  mixture  is  put 
in  mold. 

Charlotte  Russe 

Omit  lady  fingers.  Line  mold  with  sections  of  orange  or  grape 
fruit,  or  add  \  to  i  tbsp.  chopped  nuts  to  mixture  as  it  is  put  in 
mold.     When  unmolded,  garnish  with  half  nut  meats. 

Creams  and  Jellies 

Ivory  cream  (page  23). 

Spanish  cream  (page  23). 

Ice  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  or  coffee,  or  with  the  addition 
of  chopped  nuts. 


special  Diets  51 

DIABETES  —  Continued 

Hambui;:g  cream  (page  44). 

Lemon  jelly  (page  22). 

Orange  jelly  (page  22). 

Grape  fruit  jelly  (page  23). 

Coffee  cream  (page  23). 

Lemon,  orange,  or  cranberry  ice  (pages  25,  26). 

Fruits 

Oranges,  lemons,  grape  fruit,  sour  cherries. 

Breads 

Made  from  gluten  or  glutosac  flour. 
Gluten  wafers. 

Gluten  Zwieback.     (Health  Food  Co.) 
Proto  puffs.      (Health  Food  Co.) 
Bread  and  cakes  from  almond  meal. 

Beverages 

Note.  —  All  beverages  requiring  sweetening  are  sweetened  with  saccharin  in 
place  of  sugar.     See  note  on  use  of  saccharin  (page  50). 

Tea. 

Coffee. 

Koumyss. 

Albumenized  milk,  water,  lemon  or  orange  or  grape  fruit  juice. 

Lemonades. 

Egg  Lemonades. 

Effervescing  lemonades. 

Eggnog  made  with  cream  instead  of  milk. 

Coffee  eggnog. 

RECIPES    ESPECIALLY    SUITABLE    TO    DIABETICS 

CREAM  SOUP 

Liquid  Flavor  Thickening 

Celery.        i  c.  cream.  3  sticks  celery  cut  in  i  or  2  ^gg 

small  pieces,  scalded  yolks. 

20  minutes  with  the 
cream. 


52 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Liquid 

Flavor 

Thickening 

Chicken. 

i  c.  scalded 

\  c.  chicken  broth. 

I  or  2  ^gg 

cream. 

yolks. 

Clam. 

i  c.  scalded 

i  c.  clam  broth. 

I  or  2  ^gg 

cream. 

yolks. 

Tomato. 

\  c.  scalded 

i    c.    stewed     and 

I  or  2  Qgg 

cream. 

strained    tomato,    t  o 

yolks. 

which  add  Jg  tsp. 
soda  bicarbonate  be- 
fore adding  to  cream. 
Method:   Scald    the    cream.      Heat    the    flavoring   to    boiling 

point  (note  special  direction  for  celery  soup).     Add  the  flavoring 

slowly  to  the  hot  cream.     In  a  bowl  beat  slightly  the  ^gg  yolk. 

Add  the  hot  liquid  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while.     Serve  at  once. 

Or,  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  i  minute,  stirring  constantly. 

Serve  immediately. 

SPINACH   SOUP 

Cooked  spinach,  i  tbsp. 

Broth  (beef  or  chicken),  f  c. 

Egg  yolk,  I. 

Cream,  i  tbsp. 

Add  broth  to  spinach.  Cook  5  minutes,  rub  through  sieve. 
In  soup  bowl  beat  yolk  of  ^gg  with  cream.  Add  the  spinach  and 
broth  ;  return  to  double  boiler.     Cook  i  minute.     Serve  at  once. 

SAUCES 

HOLLANDAISE 

Egg  yolk,  I. 

Butter,  \  c. 

Vinegar,  \  tbsp. 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Pepper  to  taste. 

Divide  the  butter  in  3  pieces.  Put  i  piece  in  top  of  double 
boiler  with  vinegar,  ^gg  yolk,  salt  and  pepper.  Place  over  boiling 
water.     Stir  constantly  while  butter  melts.     Add  second  piece  of 


special  Diets  53 

SAUCES  —  Continued 

butter.  Stir  until  this  is  melted.  Add  remaining  butter,  continue 
stirring.  As  soon  as  it  thickens  remove  from  fire,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Vary  by  adding  (1)1  tbsp.  grated  horse-radish  root;  (2)  \  tsp. 
chopped  parsley ;  (3)  i  tbsp.  tomato  puree  ;  this  is  obtained  by 
stewing  and  straining  i  c.  tomatoes  and  cooking  down  to  a  thick 
pulp. 

Horse-radish 

Horse-radish  root,  grated,  \  tbsp. 

Whipping  cream,  i  tbsp. 

Vinegar,  f  tsp. 

Beat  the  cream  stiff.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  the  vinegar  drop 
by  drop.      Fold  in  the  horse-radish  root. 

Cucumber 

Grate  \  cucumber.  Season  to  taste  with  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper.     Serve  with  fish. 

EGGS 

Use  recipes  already  given,  omitting  toast,  bread  crumbs,  and 
white  sauce.  Use  the  following  variations  in  addition  to  those 
already  given. 

Scrambled  (page  34) 

Add  I  tbsp.  grated  cheese  when  ^gg  is  partially  cooked,  or  add 
i  Neufchatel  cheese  just  before  removing  ^^^g  from  fire. 

Shirred  (page  35) 

Butter  ^gg  shirrer,  break  into  it  an  ^g'g.  Dust  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cover  with  i  tbsp.  grated  cheese.  Bake,  set  in  hot  water 
until  cheese  is  melted  and  ^gg  is  cooked. 

Timbale 

Add  I  tbsp.  grated  cheese  before  pouring  ^g%  into  mold. 
Substitute  cream  for  all  or  part  of  the  milk. 

Omelets 

Mix  I  tbsp.  grated  cheese  with  yolk. 


54  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

CHEESE  CUSTARD 

Egg,  I. 

Cold  water,  2  tbsps. 

Cream,  4  tbsps. 

Melted  butter,  i  tbsp. 

Grated  cheese,  i  tbsp. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Beat  the  Qgg  slightly,  add  other  ingredients  in  order  named. 
Pour  into  mold,  and  bake ;  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  in  moderate 
oven  until  firm. 

VEGETABLES 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Butter  bottom  and  sides  of  small  baking  dish.  Cover  bottom 
with  chopped  nuts.  Over  this  put  a  thick  layer  of  stewed  toma- 
toes, sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  over  it  small  pieces  of 
butter ;  add  a  layer  of  chopped  nuts,  then  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  as  before.  Cover  with  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  hot 
oven    15   minutes. 

French  Artichokes 

To  prepare :  cut  off  stem  close  to  leaves,  and  remove  the 
hardest  bottom  leaves.  Cut  off  top  leaves  so  as  to  leave  an  open- 
ing. Remove  the  choke.  Tie  the  leaves  in  shape,  and  soak  30 
minutes  in  cold  water ;  to  a  saucepanful  of  boiling  salted  water 
add  I  tbsp.  vinegar,  put  in  the  artichokes,  and  cook  30  to  45 
minutes,  or  until  the  leaves  will  pull  out  easily.  Drain,  remove 
string,  and  serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Sauted  Mushrooms 

Wash  6  mushrooms  quickly,  not  allowing  them  to  soak.  Break 
off  the  stems  close  to  the  caps.  Scrape  them,  and  break  each  in 
two  or  three  pieces.  Put  the  caps,  after  peeUng,  in  a  saucepan 
with  li  tbsps.  butter.  Cook  2  minutes;  add  li  tbsps.  cream. 
Cook  slowly  until  mushrooms  are  tender.  Season  with  salt  and 
paprika.     Serve  with  beefsteak. 


special  Diets  55 

VEGETABLES  —  Continued 

Broiled  Mushrooms 

Break  the  stems  from  6  large  mushrooms.  Wash  and  peel  the 
caps.  Lay  them,  gills  down,  on  a  buttered  broiler,  broil  2  or  3 
minutes,  then  turn  and  finish  cooking  with  gills  up.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  paprika,  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  each  cap. 
Serve  at  once  on  a  thin  piece  of  toasted  gluten  bread. 

Baked  Mushrooms 

Prepare  as  for  broiled  mushrooms.  Lay  them  on  a  buttered 
pan  gills  up.  Put  small  pieces  of  butter  in  each  cap ;  dust  with 
salt  and  paprika,  bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes,  basting  twice 
with  cream  or  chicken  broth. 

SALADS 

Any  of  the  salads  already  given  may  be  used,  omitting,  of  those 
with  French  dressing,  Nos.  7,  9,  10,  11,  12,  and  of  those  with 
cream  or  mayonnaise  dressing  No.  2. 

Additional 

Celery  and  cheese.  Wash  3  or  4  crisp  sticks  of  celery.  Fill 
the  hollows  with  either  of  the  following  mixtures.  Serve  as  a 
relish,  or  use  as  a  salad  with  French  dressing. 

(i)  Cream  i  tbsp.  butter;  mix  with  i  tbsp.  grated  cheese  to 
form  a  paste.     Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  paprika. 

(2)  Work  together  i  tbsp.  American  Club  House  cheese  and 
I  tbsp.  butter.     Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Egg 

Boil  I  ^g'g  hard.  Cut  in  half  and  remove  yolk.  Mash  yolk, 
and  moisten  with  cream  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  Refill  whites, 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Vary  by  adding  to  the  yolk  i  tsp.  chopped  chicken  or  other 
meat,  or   i  tbsp.  grated  cheese. 

Spinach 

Season  cold,  cooked,  chopped  spinach  with  butter,  lemon  juice, 
salt  and  pepper.     Press  into  a  mold ;  trim  a  slice  of  tongue  the 


56  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

size  of  the  mold.  Unmold  the  spinach  on  the  tongue.  Garnish 
the  top  of  the  spinach  with  mayonnaise,  to  which  has  been  added 
finely  chopped  olives,  parsley,  and  pickles.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH 

Cut  two  very  thin  slices  of  Swiss  cheese. 

(i)  Butter  them  lightly,  and  spread  one  slice  with  finely  chopped 
chicken  or  other  meat  moistened  with  salad  dressing.  Lay  on  this 
a  lettuce  leaf,  and  cover  with  the  other  slice  of  cheese. 

(2)  Spread  the  cheese  thinly  with  salad  dressing ;  lay  on  this 
the  lettuce  leaf.     Cover  with  the  other  slice  of  cheese. 

GLUTEN  BREAD   I 

Water,  i  pint. 

Salt,  \\  tsps. 

Yeasc,  \  cake. 

Butter,  I  tbsp. 

Gluten  flour,  5  to  6  c. 

Add  salt  to  the  water,  and  bring  to  80°  F.  Dissolve  yeast 
cake  in  \  c.  lukewarm  water,  add  to  salt  and  water,  add  the  butter ; 
when  melted  add  sufficient  flour  to  knead.  Knead  well,  put  in 
bowl,  cover,  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise.  When  double  its  bulk 
(about  3  hours)  cut  down,  shape  into  loaves  ;  put  in  buttered  pans, 
let  rise  again  until  double  its  bulk,  and  bake  50  minutes  with  de- 
creasing heat.  If  desired,  add  i  c.  broken  nut  meats  to  dough 
just  before  putting  it  in  the  pans. 

GLUTEN   BREAD   II 

Lukewarm  water,  i  c. 

Salt,  \  tsp. 

Eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  2. 

Yeast,  i  cake. 

Glutosac  flour,  2\  o,. 

Soften  the  yeast  in  i  c.  of  the  water ;  add  to  the  remainder 
of  the  water.  Then  add  the  salt,  the  well-beaten  yolks,  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites,  and  lastly  the  flour.     Knead  slightly  ;  put  in  greased 


special  Diets  57 

bread   pan ;  let  rise  to  double  its   bulk,  and   bake  in  hot   oven 
40  minutes.  ^ 

GLUTEN  WAFERS 

Cream,  2  tbsps. 

Gluten  flour,  \  c. 

Salt,  i  tsp. 

Make  a  stiff  dough  of  the  flour,  cream,  and  salt.  Knead  well. 
Roll  out  until  as  thin  as  paper.  Cut  into  any  shapes  desired,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  6  minutes.  If  desired,  add  i  tbsp.  finely 
chopped  nuts  to  the  dough. 


NON-NITROGENOUS   DIET  USED   IN  NEPHRITIS 

Avoid  all  irritating  substances,  as  spices,  pepper,  mustard. 

Soup 

No  meat  soups.     Use  cream  soups,  pages  12-14  (except  cream 
of  green  pea). 

Chicken  broth. 

Chicken  broth  with  rice. 

Clam  broth. 

Vegetable  soup  (page  58). 

Cereals 
All  kinds. 

Breads 

Stale  bread,  toast ;  zwieback. 

Fish 

Occasionally. 

Meats 

White  meat  of  chicken. 

Vegetables 

All  kinds,  except  peas,  beans,  and  lentih. 


58  A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

NON-NITROGENOUS  DIET  — Continued 

Fruits 

Stewed  fruits. 

Desserts 

Junket.  Farinaceous  puddings,  without  eggs.  Ice  cream,  ices, 
charlotte. 

Beverages 

Milk,  cocoa,  weak  tea. 

Vegetable  Soup 

Carrot,  scrubbed,  scraped,  and  chopped,  2  tbsps. 
Turnip,  scrubbed,  pared,  and  chopped,  2  tbsps. 
Celery,  washed  and  chopped,  3  tbsps. 
Potato,  scrubbed,  pared,  and  chopped,  i  c. 
Onion,  pared  and  chopped,  2  tbsps. 
Butter,  2  tbsps. 
Water,  i  pint. 

Cook  all  the  vegetables  except  the  potato  in  the  butter  for 
3  minutes.  Add  the  potato,  cover,  and  cook  3  minutes.  Add 
the  water  and  boil  I  hour,  or  until  the  vegetables  are  thoroughly 
soft.  Beat  with  a  fork  to  break  the  vegetables.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  add  i  tsp.  parsley ;  serve. 


DIET   IN  RHEUMATISM 

Avoid  red  meats,  meat  soups,  sweets.  Eat  cream  soups,  fish, 
eggs,  white  meats,  cereals,  fresh  vegetables. 

DIET  IN  LIVER  DISORDERS 

Avoid  alcohol,  highly  seasoned  food,  strong  tea  and  coffee,  rich 
cheese,  pastry,  cake,  very  fat  or  very  sweet  foods.  Take  milk, 
buttermilk,  junket,  eggs,  lean  meat,  sweetbreads,  chicken,  squab, 
fish  (excepting  those  rich  in  fat),  fresh  green  vegetables,  salads 
without  oil,  fresh  fruit 


special  Diets 


59 


MENUS 


Light  Soft  Diet 


First  Day 

Breakfast. 

Soft  cooked  ^g'g,  toast,  coffee 

lO  A.M. 

Broth  with  ^gg. 

Dinner 

Cream  of  celery  soup. 

Toast  cut  in  strips. 

Wine  jelly. 

3  PM. 

Cocoa,  a  cracker. 

Supper. 

Milk  toast,  tea. 

Second  Day 

Breakfast. 

Juice  of  an  orange. 

Farina,  toast,  soft  ^gg,  coffee. 

lO  A.M. 

Eggnog. 

Dinner. 

Chicken  broth  with  rice. 

Toast. 

Soft  custard. 

3  P.M. 

Gruel,  cracker. 

Supper. 

Rice  cooked  with  milk. 

Toast,  tea,  junket. 

Third  Day 

Breakfast. 

Cream  of  wheat. 

Poached  &g%  on  toast,  coffee. 

lO  A.M. 

Broth  with  barley. 

Dinner. 

Clear  soup. 

Scraped  beef  balls  on  toast. 

Tapioca  pudding. 

3  P.M. 

Cocoa  with  ^gg,  zwieback. 

Supper. 

Cream  toast. 

Orange  jelly,  tea. 

6o 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 
Soft  Diet 


First  Day 

Breakfast. 

Fruit  in  season. 

Oatmeal. 

Poached  ^g'g,  bacon. 

Toast,  coffee. 

lO  A.M. 

Milk,  bread  and  butter  sandwich 

Dinner. 

Cream  of  tomato  soup. 

Roast  chicken. 

Mashed  potato,  toast. 

Vanilla  ice  cream. 

Supper. 

Creamed  sweetbreads. 

Toast,  tea. 

Baked  apple. 

Second  Day 

Breakfast. 

Grape  fruit. 

Shredded  wheat  biscuit. 

Broiled  finnan  haddie. 

Toast,  coffee, 
lo  A.M.  Egg  lemonade,  scraped  beef  sandwich. 

Dinner.  Broth  with  rice. 

Broiled  squab  on  toast. 

Currant  jelly. 

Stuffed  potato,  spinach. 

Orange  snow. 
Supper.  Egg  timbale,  lettuce,  French  dressing. 

Toast,  tea. 

Stewed  prunes. 

Third  Day 

Breakfast.       Orange. 

Cream  of  wheat.  -    l 

Omelet,  roll,  coffee. 


lO  A.M. 

Dinner. 


Supper. 


Special  Diets 

Egg  and  sherry,  wafer. 
Cream  of  chicken  soup. 
Lamb  chop,  peas. 
Creamed  potato. 
Bavarian  cream. 
Creamed  codfish  on  toast. 
Baked  potato,  toast,  cocoa. 
Painted  lady. 


Full  Diet 

Breakfast.       Fruit. 

Oatmeal. 

Broiled  ham. 

Roll,  coffee. 
Dinner.  Clear  soup. 

Roast  beef. 

Franconia  potatoes,  creamed  cauliflower. 

Charlotte  russe. 
Supper.  Creamed  chicken  in  potato  boraer. 

Tomato  salad,  bread  and  butter. 

Baked  apple,  sponge  cake,  tea. 


Diabetic  Diet 

I 

Breakfast.       Grape  fruit. 

Bacon,  2  poached  eggs. 

Gluten  bread  and  butter,  coffee,  cream,  sac- 
charin, 
lo  A.M.  Glass  of  cream. 

Dinner.  Cream  of  celery. 

Beefsteak  with  mushrooms. 

Spinach  and  ^^^^  broiled  tomato. 

Lettuce,  French  dressing. 

Vanilla  ice  cream. 


62 


A  Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Supper. 


Breakfast. 


10  A.M. 

Dinner. 


Supper. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Broiled  halibut  steak. 

Water  cress  salad. 

Gluten  and  nut  wafers,  tea. 

II 

Orange. 

Proto  puff  (Health  Food  Co.),  cream. 

Omelet. 

Coffee,  cream,  saccharin. 

Egg  lemonade. 

Cream  of  tomato  soup. 

Roast  mutton,  celery. 

French  artichoke,  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Ivory  cream. 

Codfish  and  cream,  spinach  salad. 

Gluten  bread  and  butter,  tea. 

Ill 
Grape  fruit. 

Scrambled  eggs  with  cheese. 
Gluten  bread  toasted,  coffee. 
Spinach  soup. 

Roast  beef,  horse-radish  sauce. 
Scalloped  tomato,  water  cress. 
Orange  jelly. 

Broiled  squab,  celery,  and  cheese. 
Broiled  mushrooms. 
Gluten  wafers,  tea. 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


CHAPTER   V 

INFANT    FEEDING 

Use  the  following  recipes  in  connection  with  the  formulae  :  — 

Whey  for  infant  feeding,  page  3. 

Barley  water,  either  recipe,  page  9. 

Pasteurize  milk  and  cream  according  to  directions  on  page  2. 

Have  all  utensils  boiled  before  using.  -  If  not  convenient  to 
use  a  certified  per  cent  cream,  use  top  milk  according  to  the 
following  table :  — 

To  obtain  top  milk,  use  a  siphon  or  a  Chapin  cream  dipper. 

Percentage  of  fat  in  top  milk.     Judson  &  Gittings. 

Fat  in  whole  milk,  4^. 

Fat  in  upper,  ^  or  6  oz.,  1656. 

Fat  in  upper,  i  or  8  oz.,  1356. 

Fat  in  upper,  ^  or  11  oz.,  10^. 

Fat  in  upper,  i  or  16  oz.,  7^. 

Milk  Formulae  for  Infant  Feeding 

(Courtesy  of  Dr.  Isaac  Abt) 

I 

The  total  amount  of  each  formula  is  24  ozs. 

Formula  i6%  cream  Whey  Milk  sugar  Water 

1.  Fat,  1.5^.  2i  ozs.  15  ozs.         f  oz.  6|  ozs. 
Sugar,  6^. 

Proteid,  .7556. 

2.  Fat,  1.75^.  2^  ozs.  14  ozs.  I  oz.  7^  ozs. 
Sugar,  6^. 

Proteid,  ijfc. 

3.  Fat,  2^.  3  ozs.  18  ozs.         I  oz.  3  ozs. 


Sugar,  6^. 
Proteid,  1.2551^. 


63 


64  A    Cook  Book  for  Nurses 

Formula  16%  cream  Whey  Milk  sugar  Water 

4.  Fat,  2.5^.  3f  ozs.  15  ozs.  f  oz.  5i  ozs. 
Sugar,  6^. 

Proteid,  1.25^. 

5.  Fat,  3^.  4i  ozs.  12  ozs.  |  oz.  7^  ozs. 
Sugar,  6^. 

Proteid,  1.25^. 

To  every  ounce  of  the  mixture  ^  grain  of  sodium  bicarbonate 
may  be  added.  Example:  To  24  ozs.  of  the  mixture  add  12 
grains  sodium  bicarbonate. 

II 

The  method  of  working  out  the  following  formulae  will  be 
found  in  ''Infant  Feeding,"  by  Judson  &  Gittings. 

The  diluent  may  be  cereal  water  or  plain  water,  i  oz.  of  lime 
water  or  12  grains  of  sodium  bicarbonate  may  be  added  to  each 
of  the  mixtures. 

The  total  amount  of  each  mixture  is  24  ozs. 

Age  Formula  16%  cream         4%  milk 


Premature. 

Fat,  \f. 
Sugar,  470. 
Proteid,  .25^. 

1.5  ozs. 

7  drs. 

22.5  ozs. 

1st  to  4th 

Fat,  i/o. 

I  oz.. 

3  drs. 

I  oz. 

22  ozs., 

day. 

Sugar,  5^. 
Proteid,  .3^. 

3  drs. 

2  drs. 

5th  to  7th 
day. 

Fat,  1.5^. 
Sugar,  5^. 
Proteid,  .5^. 

1.5  ozs. 

1.5  ozs. 

I  oz. 

21  ozs. 

2d  week. 

Fat,  2f. 

2  ozs.. 

I  oz. 

I  oz.. 

20.5  ozs. 

Sugar,  6^. 
Proteid,  .6^. 

4  drs. 

2  drs. 

3d  week. 

Fat,  2.5/0. 
Sugar,  6^. 
Proteid,  .Zf. 

3.5  ozs. 

I  oz., 
3  drs. 

1  oz., 

2  drs. 

19.5  ozs. 

Infant    Feeding 

65 

Age 
4th  to  8th 
week. 

Formula 

Fat,  3^. 
Sugar,  6  % 
Proteid,  \f. 

16%  cream 

4  ozs. 

4%  milk 
2  ozs. 

Sugar 
I  OZ., 

I  dr. 

Diluent 

18  ozs. 

3d  month. 

Fat,  3^. 
Sugar,  6% 
Proteid,  1.25^. 

3.5  ozs. 

4  ozs. 

I  oz. 

16.5   OZS. 

4th  month. 

Fat,  3.59^. 
Sugar,  7^. 
Proteid,  1.556. 

4  ozs. 

5  ozs. 

1  oz., 

2  drs. 

15   OZS. 

5th  month. 

Fat,  3.5^- 
Sugar,  7^. 
Proteid,  1.7556. 

3  ozs., 
5  drs. 

6  ozs., 
3  drs. 

1  oz., 

2  drs. 

14  OZS. 

6th  to  loth  Fat,  456. 
month.      Sugar,  7^. 
Proteid,  2^. 

4  ozs. 

8  ozs. 

I  oz., 
I  dr. 

12  OZS. 

nth 
month. 

Fat,  4^. 
Sugar,  5^. 
Proteid,  2.556. 

3  ozs. 

12  ozs. 

5  drs. 

9  OZS. 

1 2th 
month. 

Fat,  4^. 
Sugar,  5^. 
Proteid,  3^. 

2  ozs. 

16  ozs. 

h  oz. 

6  ozs. 

13th 
month. 

Fat,  4^. 
Sugar,  55^. 
Proteid,  3.556. 

I  oz. 

20  ozs. 

4  drs. 

3  ozs. 

Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


Additional  Recipes 


CHAPTER   VI 

NOTES    ON    SERVING 

Three  points  are  to  be  observed  in  serving  a  tray : 
First.         Cleanliness. 
Second.     Convenience. 
Third.        Attractiveness. 

Cleanliness. 

{a)  Be  sure  that  tray  and  tray  cloth  are  spotlessly  clean ; 
china,  glass,  and  silver  bright  and  shining. 

{b)  When  a  tray  is  removed  from  the  sick  room,  destroy  all 
foods  remaining  on  it. 

Attractiveness. 

{a)    Let  size  of  tray  be  proportionate  to  meal  to  be  served. 

Do  not  use  a  large  tray  for  a  fluid  meal.  And  for  a  conva- 
lescent's meal  use  a  tray  large  enough  to  hold  the  necessary  dishes 
without  crowding. 

{b)  Do  not  offer  too  large  portions.  Smaller  portions  are 
more  tempting,  and  also  prevent  waste.  It  is  better  to  give  a 
second  portion  than  to  overload  the  plate. 

{c)  Keep  the  rims  of  plates  and  saucers  clean.  Take  care 
that  in  serving  liquids,  the  parts  of  the  bowl  or  glass  above  the 
level  of  the  liquid  are  not  streaked  with  it. 

{d)  In  cutting  bread  or  toast  have  the  pieces  uniform  in  shape 
and  size. 

(e)  Serve  hot  dishes  hot.  Cold  dishes  cold^  but  not  chilled. 
Do  not  serve  lukewarm  foods. 

(/)  If  it  can  be  avoided,  do  not  use  dishes  of  different  colors. 

(g)  In  garnishing  dishes,  let  the  garnish  be  simple. 

{h)  If  flowers  are  available,  one  or  two  laid  in  the  napkin  are 
attractive,  but  do  not  use  too  many. 

67 


68 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


lyi)     Cover  the  whole  tray  with  a  napkin  when  carrying  it  from 
the  kitchen  to  the  patient. 

Convenience. 


DIAGRAM    OF   CONVALESCENT   TRAY 

1 .  On  a  breakfast  tray,  this  should  be  the  cereal  or  fruit  dish ; 
on  dinner  tray  the  soup  bowl  or  plate ;  on  supper  tray  the  plate 
containing  the  principal  food  of  the  meal. 

2.  Knife,  edge  of  blade  towards  plate. 

3.  Soup  spoon,  if  needed. 

4.  Fork,  prongs  turned  up.  If  more  than  one  fork  is  needed 
place  it  here,  having  the  fork  to  be  used  first  farthest  from  the 
plate. 

5.  Teaspoons.  Be  sure  to  have  as  many  as  will  be  needed 
on  the  tray  so  as  to  avoid  delay. 

6.  Butter  chip,  unless  bread  and  butter  plate  is  used. 

7.  Glass.     Fill  glasses  only  three-fourths  full. 

8.  Salt  and  pepper. 

9.  Sugar  bowl. 


Notes  on  Serving  69 

10.  Cream  pitcher. 

11.  Tea  or  coffee  pot. 

12.  Cup  and  saucer.  Take  care  that  handles  of  teapot,  cream 
pitcher,  and  cup  are  all  turned  towards  outside  of  tray. 

13.  Plate  of  bread  or  toast.  If  a  dinner  tray,  the  plate  of 
bread  may  be  put  over  the  soup  bowl,  and  this  may  be  the  plate 
holding  the  main  part  of  the  dinner. 

14.  Dessert. 

1 5 .  Extra  vegetables,  or  salad. 

The  napkin  may  be  put  on  the  bread  plate,  and  the  bread  put 
within  a  fold  of  it,  or  it  may  be  put  at  the  right  of  the  soup  spoon. 


INDEX 


Abbreviations,  Table  of,  viii 
Albumenized  Fruit  Juice,  lO 

Milk,  lo 

Water,  lo 
Apples,  Baked,  46 

Compote,  47 

Painted  Lady,  47 

Sauce,  47 

Snow,  45 

Tapioca,  22 
Arrowroot  Pudding,  20 
Artichokes,  French,  54 
Asparagus,  39 

Salad,  43 

Soup,  12 
Bacon,  Broiled,  31 

Fried,  32 
Baked  Apples,  46 

Custard,  19 

Mushrooms,  55 

Pears,  47 

Potatoes,  38 

Quinces,  47 

Tapioca,  21 
Barley  Gruel,  1 1 

Water,  9 
Bavarian  Cream,  46 

for  Diabetics,  50 
Beef  Broth,  4 

Juice,  5 

Steak,  28 

Tea,  6 
Birds,  Broiled,  28,  29 
Boiled  Egg,  15 

Potato,  37 

Rice,  17 
Boned  Squab,  31 
Brabant  Potatoes,  39 
Brains,  Calves',  28 


Bread,  Gluten,  56 

Pite,  33 
Broiled  Bacon,  31 
Bird,  28 
Chicken,  29 
Chop,  28 
Fish,  29 
Ham,  32 
Mushrooms,  55 
Oysters,  34 
Squab,  29 
Steak,  28 
Sweetbreads,  29 
Tomato,  41 
Broth,  Beef,  4 
Chicken,  4 
Clam,  5 
with  Egg,  4 
with  Grains,  15 
Mutton,  4 
Oyster,  5 
Buttered  Toast,  17 
Calves'  Brains,  28 
Caudle,  11 
Cauliflower,  39 
Celery,  39 
Soup,  13,  14 
for  Diabetics,  51 
Cereals,  Com  Meal,  16 
Farina,  16 
Hominy,  16 
Oatmeal,  16 
Rolled  Oats,  16 
Charlottes,  45 

for  Diabetics,  50 
Cheese  Custard,  54 

Sandwich,  56 
Chicken,  Broiled,  29 
Broth, 4 


71 


72 


A    Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Chicken,  Cream  of,  13 
for  Diabetics,  52 

Creamed,  32 

Jellied,  31 

Scalloped,  32 

Smothered,  30 

and  Veal  Jelly,  4 
Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream,  4.6 

Charlotte,  45 

Custard,  18 

Farinaceous  Pudding,  21 

Ice  Cream,  25 
Chops,  Broiled,  28 
Clam  Broth,  5 

Cream  of,  13 
Cocoa,  7 

Custard,  18 
Coffee,  6,  7 

Cream,  23 

for  Diabetics,  50 

Custard,  19,  20 

Eggnog,  3 

Jelly,  23 

for  Diabetics,  50 

Junket,  24 

Tapioca,  21 
Compote,  Apple,  47 
Com,  Cream  of,  13 
Com  Meal,  16 
Cornstarch  Pudding,  2c 

Chocolate,  21 
Cracker  Gruel,  1 1 
Cranberry  Ice,  26 
Cream,  of  Asparagus,  12 

Bavarian,  46 

of  Celery,  13 

of  Chicken,  13 

Chocolate,  46 

of  Clam,  13 

Coffee,  23 

of  Com,  13 

Egg»  44 

to  Freeze,  25 

of  Green  Peas,  13 

Hamburg,  44 

Ice,  25 

Italian,  24 


Cream,  Ivory,  23 

of  Onion,  13 

of  Potatoes,  14 

Salad  Dressing,  41 

Soups  for  Diabetics,  51 

Spanish,  23 

of  Tomato,  14 
Creamed  Chicken,  32 

Dishes,  variations,  32 

Fish,  32 

Oysters,  t,-^^ 

Potatoes,  38 

Sweetbreads,  32 

Toast,  18 
Croquettes,  Ice  Cream,  46 

Sponge  Cake,  44 
Cucumber  Sauce,  53 
Custard,  Baked,  19 

Cheese,  54 

Chocolate,  18,  19 

Cocoa,  18,  19 

Coffee,  19,  20 

Renversee,  20 

Soft,  18 
Diabetic  Diet,  49 
Diets : 

for  Diabetics,  49 

Fluid,  I 

Light  Soft,  15 

in  Liver  Disorders,  58 

Non-Nitrogenous,  57 

in  Rheumatism,  58 

Soft  (Convalescent),  27 
Dressing,  Salad,  Cream,  41 

French,  41 

Mayonnaise,  42 
Dry  Toast,  17 
Effervescing  Lemonade,  8 
Egg,  Boiled,  15 

Broth,  4 

Cream,  44 

Japanese,  37 

Lemonade,  8 

in  Nest,  35 

Omelets,  36 

Poached,  16 

Salad,  55 


Index 


73 


Egg,  Scrambled,  34 
for  Diabetics,  53 
Shirred,  3$ 

for  Diabetics,  53 
Timbale,  35 

for  Diabetics,  53 
Variations,  34,  35 
Vermicelli,  37 
Eggnog,  3 
Coffee,  3 
Fruit,  3 
Farina,  16 
Gruel,  II 
Pudding,  20 
Farinaceous  Pudding,  20 

Chocolate,  21 

Fish,  Broiled,  29 

Creamed,  32 

Scalloped,  32 

Flaxseed  Tea,  10 

Fluid  Diet,  i 

Formulae  for  Infant  Feeding,  63 
Franconia  Potatoes,  39 
French  Artichokes,  54 

Dressing,  41 
Fruit  Beverages,  7 
Cream,  44 
Eggnog,  3 

Juice,  Albumenized,  10 
Sauce,  22 

Tapioca  Pudding,  22 
Whips,  45 
Gluten  Bread,  56 

Wafers,  57 
Grape  Fruit  Jelly,  23 
Green  Peas,  Cream  of,  13 
Gruel,  Barley,  11 
Cracker,  11 
Farina,  ii 
Oat  Flour,  11 
Oatmeal,  12 
Rice,  II 
Variations,  ii 
Ham,  Broiled,  32 
Hamburg  Cream,  44 
HoUandaise  Sauce,  52 
Hominy,  16 


Horse-radish  Sauce,  53 
Ice  Cream,  25 
Chocolate,  25 
Croquettes,  46 
Vanilla,  25 
Ice,  Cranberry,  26 
Lemon,  25 
Orange,  26 
Iced  Tea,  6 
Infant  Feeding,  Whey  for,  3 

Formulae  for,  63 
Irish  Moss  Lemonade,  10 
Italian  Cream,  24 
Ivory  Cream,  23 
Jellied  Chicken,  31 
Jelly,  Coffee,  23 
to  Decorate,  24 
Grape  Fruit,  23 
Lemon,  22 
Orange,  22 
Prune,  44 
Tomato,  43 
Veal  and  Chicken,  4 
Water,  9 
Wine,  23 
Juice,  Beef,  5 

Albumenized  Fruit,  10 
Junket,  24 

Coffee,  24 
Koumyss,  2 
Lemonade,  8 
Effervescing,  8 
Egg,  8 

Irish  Moss,  10 
Lemon  Ice,  25 
Jelly,  22 

Juice,  Albumenized,  10 
Whey,  3 
Light  Soft  Diet,  15 
Liver  Disorders,  Diet  in,  58 
Mayonnaise  Dressing,  42 
Measures,  Table  of,  viii 
Meats,  to  Select,  27 

Special  Preparation,  27 
Menus : 

for  Diabetics,  61 
Full,  61 


74 


A   Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Menus : 

Light  Soft,  59 

Soft,  60 
Meringue,  19 
Milk,  Albumenized,  10 

Koumyss,  2 

Pasteurized,  2 

Peptonized,  2 

Punch,  2 

Soups,  12 

Sterilized,  i 

Toast,  17 
Mulled  Wine,  10 
Mushrooms,  Baked,  55 

Broiled,  55 

Sauted,  54 
Non-Nitrogenous  Diet,  57 
Oat  Flour  Gruel,  1 1 

Mush,  16 
Omelets,  36 

Savory,  36 

Sweet,  37 

Variations,  36 
Onion  Soup,  13 
Orange  Basket,  23 

Ice,  26 

Jelly,  22 

Juice,  Albumenized,  10 

Quarters,  23 
Orangeade,  8 
Oysters,  Broiled,  34 

Broth,  5 

Creamed,  2)1 

Panned,  34 

Raw,  33 

Scalloped,  34 
Painted  Lady,  47 
Panned  Oysters,  34 
Parboil  Sweetbreads,  27 
Pasteurized  Milk,  2 
Pate,  Bread,  ^t^ 

Potato,  -^^i 
Peach  Tapioca,  22 
Pears,  Baked,  47 
Peas,  40 

Peptonized  Milk,  2 
Poached  Egg,  16 


Potatoes,  Baked,  38 

Boiled,  37 

Brabant,  39 

Creamed,  38 

Franconia,  39 

Mashed,  38 

Pate,  33 

Riced,  38 

Scalloped,  39 

Soup,  14 

Stuffed,  38 
Prune  Jelly,  44 

Stewed,  48 

Whip,  45 
Pudding,  Apple  Tapioca,  22 

Arrowroot,  20 

Baked  Tapioca,  2 1 

Coffee  Tapioca,  21 

Cornstarch,  20 

Farina,  20 

Fruit  Tapioca,  22 

Peach  Tapioca,  22 
Punch,  Milk,  2 
Quinces,  Baked,  47 
Raw  Oysters,  -itZ 

Tomatoes,  40 
Rennet  Whey,  3 
Rheumatism,  Diet  in,  58 
Rice,  Boiled,  17 

Flour  Gruel,  11 

Steamed,  17 

W^ater,  9 
Riced  Potatoes,  38 
Roast  Birds,  28 

Squab,  29 

Sweetbreads,  30 
Rolled  Oats,  16 
Salad  Dressings,  41,  42 
Salads  with  Cream  Dressing,  43 

for  Diabetics,  55 

with  French  Dressing,  42 

with  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  43 
Sauce,  Apple,  47 

Cucumber,  53 

Fruit,  22 

Hollandaise,  52 

Horse-radish,  53 


Index 


7S 


Savory  Omelets,  36 
Scalloped  Chicken,  32 

Fish,  32 

Oysters,  34 

Potatoes,  39 

Sweetbreads,  32 

Tomatoes,  40 
for  Diabetics,  54 
Scrambled  Eggs,  34 

for  Diabetics,  53 
Shirred  Eggs,  35 

for  Diabetics,  53 
Smothered  Squab,  30 

Sweetbreads,  30 
Soft  Diet,  27 
Soup,  Asparagus,  12 

Celery,  13 

for  Diabetics,  51 

Chicken,  13 

for  Diabetics,  52 

Clam,  13 

for  Diabetics,  52 

Green  Peas,  13 

Onion,  13 

Potato,  14 

Spinach,  52 

Tomato,  14 

for  Diabetics,  52 

Vegetable,  58 
Spanish  Cream,  23 
Spinach,  40 

Salad,  55 

Soup,  52 
Sponge  Cake  Croquettes,  44 
Sponges,  24 
Squab,  Boned,  31 

Broiled,  29 

Roast,  29 

Smothered,  30 
Steak,  Broiled,  28 
Steamed  Rice,  17 
Sterilized  Milk,  i 
Stewed  Prunes,  48 

Tomatoes,  40 
String  Beans,  40 
Stuffed  Potatoes,  38 

Tomatoes,  41 


Sweetbreads,  Baked,  30 

Broiled,  29 

Creamed,  32 

Parboiled,  27 

Scalloped,  32 

Smothered,  30 
Sweet  Omelets,  37 
Syrup  for  Sweetening,  8 
Tapioca,  Apple.  22 

Baked,  21 

Coffee,  21 

Cream,  21 

Fruit,  22 

Peach,  22 
Tea,  6 

Beef,  6 

Flaxseed,  10 

Iced,  6 
Timbale,  Egg,  35 

for  Diabetics,  53 
Toast,  Buttered,  17 

Dry,  17 

Creamed,  18 

Milk,  17 

Water,  18 
Toast  Water,  9 
Tomato,  Broiled,  41 

Jelly,  43 

Raw,  40 

Scalloped,  40 
for  Diabetics,  54 

Soup,  14 

Stewed,  40 

Stuffed,  41 
Trifles,  44 

Veal  and  Chicken  Jelly,  4 
Vegetables,  39 

Asparagus,  39 

Cauliflower,  39 

Celery,  39 

French  Artichokes,  54 

Mushrooms,  54,  55 

Peas,  40 

Potatoes,  37 

Spinach,  40 

String  Beans,  40 

Tomatoes,  40 


76 


A  Cook  Book  for  Nurses 


Vegetable  Soup,  58 
Wafers,  Gluten,  57 
Water,  Albumenized,  10 

Barley,  9 

Jelly,  9 

Rice,  9 

Toast,  9 
Water  Toast,  18 
Whey,  for  Infant  Feeding,  3 


Whey,  Lemon,  3 

Rennet,  3 

Wine,  3 
Whips,  Fruit,  45 

Prune,  45 
White  Sauce,  12 
Wine  Jelly,  23 

Mulled,  10 

Whey,  3 


14  DAY  USE 

'  RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 
AGRICULTURE  LIBRARY 

40  Giannini  Hall  -  Tel.  No.  642-4493 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below,  or 
nnJhe  date  to  which  renewed^ 


RETURN 
TO  — ► 


MARIAN  KOSHLAND  BIOSCIENCE  AND 
NATURAL  RESOURCE  LIBRARY 

2101  Valley  Life  Sciences  BIdg.    642-2531 

LOAN  PERIOD 


7  DAYS 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS. 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW. 

-■^  U:;  /ml 

•       ^REC;' 

FORM  NO.  DD  8 
24M    4-00 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
Berkeley,  California  94720-6500 


1- 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIF<J 

iHIHIIIIIli 

C027Mb3331 


/„.  ^ 


4 


4^^ 


